





^^^K 








LIBRARY OF^ CONGRESS. 

©1^. .1!^ dttit^riBy :f u 

Shelf...Tl6g 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



THE 



PRN 






Jl 



CM T 



X J. v^ 



H 



■i H 







A MANUAL FOR HOUSEKEEPERS, 



-AND- 



COLLECTION OF RECIPES, 



£^ 



Oi 



n 



'V 



CONTRIBUTED BY 



The Ladies of the First Baptist Church 



HAVERHILL. MASS. 



'^ri.^Jtw/. 



1882. 



-. /I DEC 26 1882 j). 

Zy Of v^' \^^\w^'^%. 



S'IK.\M TRKSS OF CM. ASK r.U( >S.. 22 \V.\S1IIN(;T()X .SQU.-VRK. 
HAVERHILL, MASS. 






b'^ 



Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1882, 

Bv C. VV. TRAIN, 
In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 



'^.pji^'ITH just pride the inhabitants of Haverhill regard the name of Pentucket. 



I In the early history of our country it had i'.s share of "fair women and 
lirave men," and frontier town as it was, many of these women learned to be 
brave as well as fair. If the name of Hannah Dustin ensures to the women of 
Pentucket a reputation for bravery, there were many who contributed to its renown 
fur thrift and hospitality. 

A genial social intercourse distinguished the older families, and at their frequent 
gatherings, abundance and excellence characterized the provisions of the table. 

These ancient dames were competent to discuss with wisdom the complicated 
affairs of colonial and revolutionary times, and equally al)le to organize the 
household, control the children, and direct the servants; especially able to do the 
last because they were personally familiar with the details of domestic life. 
Cooking, washing, brewing and even soap-making were reckoned anK)ng their 
accomplishments. 

It is believed that a good share of ability and thrift has descended to their 
children, and that even in these degenerate days, we may justly boast of many 
"capable women." It is also found that the ladies of the present day, like their 
grandmothers, are fond of discussing comparative methods of housekeeping, and 
many a choice recipe is passed from one to another over tables adorned with most 
delicate of biscuit and cakes, and fragrant with aroma of coffee and tea. 
Under the impression that it is wise to gather up some of these excellent recipes 
and give them the permanence secured by a book, the present work has been 
undertaken; and it is hoped that the historical interest of the older rules, the 



excellence of the modern ones, with the guarantee given to the most of them by the 
reliable names appended, will make our collection of s])ecial interest to ourselves 
and of real value to others. 

In the faith that it will tend to perpetuate the superior housekeeping of 
our honored mothers, and make those who shall come after us worthy repre- 
sentatives of the dear ones who have gone before, it is respectfully dedicated 
to those who now have the honor to be the matrons of Haverhill and vicinity. 

H.WERHii.i., M.\ss., Dec, 1882. 




"She seeketli wool and i\\\, ami u\)rketh \villinLrl\- with her hands." 

"She visetli earlv while it is yet night, and giseth meat tn her household." 

".She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread 
/i)f idleness." 

Solomon. 

What does cooker)' mean? It means the kn.iv.leilge of all fruits and herbs 
and balms and spices, and of all that is healing and sweet in fields and groves, 
and savory in meats. It means carefulness and inventiveness, and watchfulness 
and willingness, and readiness of appliance. It means the economy of your great- 
mother and the science of modern chemists. It means much tasting antl no wasting; 
it means English thoroughness, and French art, and Arabian hospitality; and it 
means, in fine, that you are to be perfectly and always ladies — loaf givers; and 
as you are to see im])erati\ely that everybody has something pretty to put on, so 
you are to see even yet more imperatively that everybody has something nice to eat. 

Rl SKIN. 




"Pease porridge hot, 
Pease porridge cold, 

.Pease porridge in the pot 
Nine days old." 



— J!^- 



STOCK. 

Buy a shank of beef and have it broken into small pieces ; put 
with it any bones or fragments you may have of cooked or uncooked 
meat. Allow about a quart of cold water, a teaspoonful of salt and 
a little pepper to each pound of meat. Put over the fire and let it 
come to boil slowly, skimming off every particle of skum as it rises. 
A little cold water added just as it boils will make the skum rise 
more freely. After this, cover closely and let it boil very slowly for 
several hours. Strain out all the meat and bones, which, having parted 
with all their juices, are good for nothing, and keep the broth to 
use as may be needed. When ready to use it, remove the cake of 
fat which has formed on the toj), and save it for shortening, or for 
the fry-kettle. If the stock is to be used immediately, vegetables 
may 'be used as well as meat, but not if the stock is to l)e kept any 
time, as vegetable juices very soon ferment. Stock thus prepared is 
useful for all kinds of soups, gravies and hashes. 



MOCK TURTLK SOUP. 
To about one gallon of good beef stock put one coffee cupful 
of black beans, soaked in cold water over night. Let them boil till 
they are soft enough to mash easily ; skim out the beans, mash ver)' 
perfectly, put back into the soup kettle ; mix well and strain the whole 
through a strainer fine enough to retain all the hulls from the beans. 
Return to the soup kettle, add salt, a very little red pepper, two 
teaspoonfuls of flour. Boil for a few minutes. Slice a nice fresh 
lemon into your tureen and pour upon it the soup. — Mrs. J. C. Tyler, 
Boston. 

MRS. VINTON'S SOUP. 

Take the scraps and bones of cold roast beef, mutton or the 
skeleton of a roast turkey, to which add a small joint of beef or veal. 
Boil until the meat cleaves from the bones. Strain out the bones and 
meat, return the meat to the broth and let it stand over night in a 
cool place. Take off the fat and put the broth back into the soup 
kettle. Cut into dice shaped pieces, half a turnip, half a carrot, a 
stick of celery and two potatoes ; add them to the soup and let all 
boil slowly an hour and a half. When the soup is put on to cook, 
put half a cupful of pearl barley to soak on the back of the range 
and add it to the soup half an hour before serving. Take a small 
piece of light dough, or make up a little biscuit dough, and cut a 
dozen small dumplings with a pepper box cover and drop them intcj 
the soup fifteen minutes before serving. — Jtilici A. Marslialh M. D. 

CORN SOUP. 

Grate a dozen ears of corn. Boil the cobs twenty minutes, putting 
them on in cold water. Remove the cobs, and boil the grated corn 
twenty minutes in the same water. Then add a pint of milk, a 
little butter, pepper, salt, and water enough to make the soup just right 
for thickness. Just before serving remove the soup from the fire, add 
two or three well beaten eggs and send at once to the table. — Mrs. 
Me7-rihen, Fairha\'en. 



(iREEN PEA SOUP. 

Boil one (juart of green pease and one onion until the pease 
are very tender. Mash, and add a pint of stock, two tablespoonfuls 
of butter and one of flour rubbed together. Boil and add two cupfuls 
of rich milk. Season, strain and ser\'e. Bread spread with butter, 
cut into squares and toasted in the oven, makes a nice addition to 
the soup. — .9. P. 

BEAN SOUP. 

One pound of the round of beef, one-half pound of salt pork, 
one (juart of black beans, a few stalks of celery and an onion. 
Soak the beans over night. Chop the beef and pork. Simmer 
all together for five or six hours. Strain and season to taste. 
Serve with lemons, sliced. Excellent pea or bean soup can be 
made by boiling the beans or i)ease with celery and onions in 
corned-beef liquor, if it l)e not too salt. — Miss Carrie Duncan. 

LOBSTER SOUP— No. i. 

One large lobster or two small ones ; pick all the meat from 
the shell and chop fine ; scald one quart of milk and one pint 
of water, then add the lobster, a lump of butter, a tablespoonful 
of flour, salt and red pepper to taste. Boil ten minutes and serve 
hot.' — Miss Rebecca W. Duncan. 

LOBSTER SOUP— No. 2. 

To one lobster, chopped, add three pounded crackers mixed with 
the green of the lobster and a piece of butter the size of an 
egg. Scald one cjuart of milk ; as soon as it comes to boil stir 
in the ingredients. Season with pepper. — Miss A. E. Goodrich. 

TOMATO SOUP— No. i. 

One can of tomatoes stewed and strained • add a pinch of soda. 
Boil three (Quarts of milk and thicken it with a tablespoonful of 



lO 

corn starch wet in a little cold milk. Add butter size of an egg, 
salt and pepper. Pour the tomato into the milk and serve hot. — 
Mrs. Marianne Ely. 

TOMATO SOUP— No. 2. 

One (juart of canned tomatoes, one pint of hot water, onions — 
more or less ; let them come to boil ; two heaping tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of sugar, 
one teaspoonful of salt, well rubbed together with a spoonful of 
the hot tomato. When very smooth, stir into the boiling mixture ; 
boil fifteen minutes, add pepper and rub through a sieve. Serve 
with squares of toasted bread. — Airs. Dr. S. K. Tozvle. 

TOMATO SOUP— No. 3. 

Take pieces of roast beef or beefsteak that cannot be used in 
any other way ; boil them slowly several hours. Set this away until 
cold, so that all the fat can be removed, then add salt, onions 
cut fine, one quart tomatoes, pepper, and a tablespoonful of ground 
cloves. Boil all together until the meat is all in shreds ; strain 
and thicken ; return to the fire and l)oil three or four minutes. — 
A. T. B. 

PARKER HOUSE TOMATO SOUP. 

Five pints of beef litpior, two onions, one carrot, one turnip, 
one beet. Pare them and cut in small pieces, boil forty-five 
minutes and strain through a sieve ; add two quarts of tomatoes ; 
boil twenty minutes and strain. Brown a quarter of a pound of 
butter, or less ; stir in flour until it makes a paste ; pour into the 
soup and boil ten minutes ; add a teaspoonful of sugar and salt 
to taste. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Ten large potatoes boiled soft and mashed with one-quarter of 
a pound of butter. Pour on three pints of boiling milk, and stir 



all the time until it boils again. Season with salt, pepper and 
mace. Strain into the tureen, and serve with squares of fried 
bread. — Mrs. T. G. Appleton. 

BEAN PORRIDGE. 

Boil four pounds of corned beef and one pint of white pea 
beans in four quarts of water for two hours, (skimming thoroughly,) 
then add one pound of fat pork and boil two hours more ; add 
water to have four quarts when done. Take out the meat and 
pork, mix one pint of sifted Indian meal in cold water and pour 
into the liquor. Stir well and let it boil five minutes. — Mrs. J. F. 
Gile. 

FORCE MEAT BALLS FOR SOUP. 

Take any kind of cold meat ; chop very fine ; add an egg and 
bread crumbs or flour ; season well with pepper and salt. Make up 
into small balls and fry them brown. — T. W. C. 

NOODLES FOR SOUP. 

To one egg add as much sifted flour as it will absorb, with a 
little salt ; roll out as thin as a wafer, dredge lightly with flour, 
roll over and over into a large roll, slice from the ends and drop 
into the soup about five minutes before serving. 

DUMPLINGS FOR SOUP, 

A pint of flour and a little salt, a teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar and half as much soda ; mix with milk a little softer than 
for biscuit ; drop from a spoon into the boiling sou]d ; take them 
out of the soup as soon as they are cooked, as they become 
heavy by remaining in it. 



^e)' 6\% ^p' 



h^.. '^'""ss^r^^-^v 






^- 



"It is observable, not only that there are fish three times as big as the 

mighty elephant, but that the mightiest feasts have been of fish. The Romans, 

in the hight of their glory, have made fish the mistress of all their entertain- 
ments." — IzAAK Walton. 

TO BAKE A BLUEFISH. 
Take a l)luefish weighing three or four pounds, rub into it a 
dessert spoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful each of sage and sum- 
mer savory. Make a dressing of two pounded crackers, one egg 
well beaten, a little salt and pepjier, and two tablespoonfuls of milk 
or water. Lay the fish on a tin sheet that will fit loosely into 
the baking pan. Gash the fish on top, leaving an inch space 
between the gashes ; put a thin strip of salt pork in the gashes, 
and on the spaces lay a small roll of the dressing. Turn into 
the baking pan half a cup of water, (not more, or the fish will 
boil instead of bake), adding more water if it boils away. Bake 
one hour, then lift out the fish on the tin sheet, place the pan 
on the fire, and when the gravy boils, thicken with one teaspoon- 
ful of flour, and season with salt and pepper. Slip the fish off 
the tin sheet into a platter and pour the gravy around it. — Mrs. 
C. B. Emerson. 



13 

HAKKl) HALIBUT, 

Upon the grate of the dripping pan put a buttered sheet of 
thick white writing paper ; place the hmip of fish upon the paper ; 
cover the top with powdered cracker, salt and bits of butter. Bake 
in a hot oven until well browned — about an hour for two pounds. 
Slip from the paper on to the platter ; garnish with slices of hard- 
boiled egg ; serve with butter sauce. — Mrs. Leonard Whitticr. 

BAKED SHAD. 
Have the shad opened in the back, with the head left on ; 
stuff, sew together, and place in the dripping pan with a little 
water ; lay over it two or three thin slices of pork, dredge with 
flour and bake one hour in a hot oven ; baste two or three times. 
After it has been baking one half-hour, add a little butter ; about 
ten minutes before it is done, add one-half cup of milk and a 
little flour. — Mrs. Freeman Q. Barrows. 

BAKED FISH. 

After the fish is cleaned, rub it with salt and fill it with a 
highly-seasoned force-meat. Sew it up, put the tail in the mouth, 
strew it with powdered cracker, sweet herbs, cloves, and small bits of 
butter. Put a pint of water in the pan. Most fishes need to 
bake about two hours. When half done, baste with butter. Pour 
the gravy off into a sauce-pan, add browned flour, pepper and 
cloves, until it is highly seasoned. Garnish the dish with lemon 
and balls of the force meat. — Mrs. J. H. Duncan. 

CREAM FISH. 

Boil two pounds of cod or halibut, and break into small pieces 
while hot. Add a few small pieces of butter, a little pepper and 
salt. Make a sauce with one pint of milk in which has been boiled 
a small onion, one-fourth of a pound of butter, and thickened with 
two tablespoonfuls of flour ; let it boil to thicken. Cover the bottom 



14 

of a dish with the fish, add some sauce, and so on, fish and sauce, 
until the dish is filled. Cover the top with breadcrumbs, bits of 
butter and the juice of one lemon. Brown in the oven. — Airs. H. 
C. Graves. 

TURBOT A LA CREME. 

Take five pounds of boiled fish, shred the fish while hot, then set 
away to cool. Boil one quart of milk and in it one-quarter of an 
onion, a little piece of parsley and a scant cup of flour mixed with 
a part of the milk while cold. Boil this till it thickens a little, take 
out the onion and parsely and turn the milk upon two beaten yolks 
of eggs. Season it with two teaspoonfuls of salt, half a teaspoonful 
of thyme, quarter of a teaspoontul of pepper, and half a cup of but- 
ter. Then butter a pudding-dish and put in alternate layers of fish 
and cream, finishing with cream. Sift over the top cracker dust and 
grated cheese, and bake half an hour. — Mrs. E. N. Hill. 

BAKED SALT FISH. 

Soak one-half pound of salt codfish in warm water over night. 
Spread on the bottom of a quart dish a piece of butter the size of an 
egg. Put in the fish shredded fine, one and a half cracker, pounded, 
a little pepper, one beaten egg, two cups of scalded milk. Bake 
twenty-five minutes. Very nice with baked potatoes. — Mrs. Susan 
Kimball. 

SHAKER CODFISH. 

Soak half a pound of salt fish, and cook it slightly. Boil four or 
five potatoes and cut into thick slices. Boil three eggs just hard 
enough to slice. Make a rich white sauce with milk and butter, 
thickened with a little flour. Put the ingredients together over the 
fire, add pepper and serve very hot. — Mjs. John Lincoln, Pro\'i- 
dence. 



15 

FISH BALLS. 

Soak the fish over night. In the morning change the water, and 
after a Httle more soaking put it into tepid water, cover close and 
put it where it will be very hot, but on no account let it boil, as 
this makes it hard and unpalatable. After being cooked in this way 
for an hour or two it is ready for fish balls or any other use. For 
fish balls, chop very fine, add twice the quantity of mashed potatoes, 
moisten with butter or rich cream, add pepper, or mustard, if you 
like, and a little salt if the fish does not salt it sufificiendy. Mix 
all \ery thoroughly. Make into little flat cakes, flour, and fry in the 
spider, in the fat of fried pork, which is to be served with them ; or, 
make into round balls, egg and crumb them, and fry in boiling lard. 

RAW OYSTERS 

Drain them in a colander, sprinkle with plenty of pei)per and 
salt, and put them on ice at least half an hour before serving ; 
or they may be placed upon the table in a block of ice. 

FRICASSEE OF OYSTERS. 

Scald one quart of oysters in their liquor, then strain off the 
liquor. Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a sauce- 
pan on the stove, and when it bubbles sprinkle in a tablespoon- 
ful of flour ; let it cook a minute, stirring it, then add the litiuor. 
Take it from the fire and add the yolks of two eggs, salt and a 
little pepper. Return it to the fire and put in the oysters : boil 
all together a minute and serve on toasted bread, or crackers split 
and toasted. — Mrs. J. A. Hale. 

OYSTER STEW. 

Three pints of milk. When it boils, stir in two tablespoonfuls of 
cracker dust, salt and two tablespoonfuls of butter ; add one quart 
of oysters and let them just rea(-h the boiling ])oint. — Mrs. Liiflicr 
Day. 



i6 

PARTED OYSTERS. 

Sprinkle the oysters with pepper and salt, and <(jo] thoroughly 
before cooking. When ready to cook, roll them first in cracker 
crumbs, then in egg, or egg and milk, then in cracker cnmibs 
again. Fry in boiling lartl, like doughnuts, or in l)utter in a hot 
sjiider, and serve immediately. 

ESCALOPED OYSTERS— No. i. 

One (juart of oysters, one pint of fine cracker crumbs, one pint 
of milk, one egg, butter, salt and pepper. First put a layer of 
oysters and season well with salt, pepper and butter, then cover 
with a layer of the cracker cruml^s, and repeat till the oysters are 
all used, and also the liquor. Have the top layer of crumbs. 
Beat the egg thoroughly, stir it into the milk and pour o\er the 
top of the dish, which must be large enough to allow for the 
swelling. — Mrs. E. G. Wood. 

ESCALOPED OYSTERS— No. 2. 

For one quart of oysters take five or six Boston crackers finely 
powdered. Butter the dish and add a sprinkling of cracker crumbs 
then a layer of oysters ; add seasoning of salt and pepper ; cover 
with crumbs and place on them small bits of butter. Fill the dish 
in this manner, having three layers of the oysters and ending with 
the cracker crumbs. Put a goodly number of bits of butter on 
the last crumbs, and bake in a hot oven about half an hour. 
Do not use any of the liquor with the oysters, except what will 
remain after dipping them out with the fork. — Mrs. E. IV. Ames. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

One (juart of clams, one quart of sliced potatoes. Make six 
alternate layers of potatoes and clams. Sprinkle a little pepper 
and salt j^ork fat over each layer of clams. Cover completely with 
boiling water, and boil about twenty minutes, or until the potato 
is done. While this is boiling, soak about eighteen crackers in 



I? 

two quarts of milk, and ackl to the chowtler when the potato is 
done. Salt, if necessary. Let it just boil after adding the crackers. — 
Mrs. Ncivtou S/07'i'r. 

LOBSTER CHOPS. 
Cut one-half pound of the meat of lobster into small bits. Mix 
smooth in a stew-pan a piece of butter about the size of half 
an egg, and a tablespoonfal of flour ; add two-thirds of a cupful of 
milk or cream, and when it boils stir in the lobster ; then take it 
from the fire and add two beaten eggs, cayenne pepper and salt 
to the taste ; return the mixture to the fire and stir until the 
eggs are set. When cold, form the mixture into the shape of 
chops, pointed at one end. Roll in bread crumbs, then in egg, 
and again in the cruml)s, and fry in hot butter. — Mrs. Moses Gid- 
ifings, Bangor, Me. 





"We may live without poetry, music and art; 

We may live without conscience, and live without heart; 

We may live without friends, and live without books;. 

But civilized man cannot live without cooks. 

He may live without books — what is knowledge but grieving? 

He may live without hope — what is hope but deceiving? 

He may live without love — what is passion but pining? 

But where is the man that can live without dining." 

•— ^^'-^{^ — ■J—* 



To boil meat for the table, put it into boiling water. The albumen of the meat 
is thus hardened at the surface, and a case is formed to retain the juices. Boil 
stteadily but very gently, as hard boiling toughens the meat. If to be eaten cold, 
allow it to cool in the water in which it was boiled, thereby greatly improving the 
flavor. 

To roast meat, place it upon bars in the dripping pan, flour it well, put a little 
water into the pan, add more when this is nearly dried away. Baste the meat often 
in its o\\n juice, or butter, if you please. When half done turn over to brown the 
other side. Some persons rub salt over the meat before flouring it for the oven, 
others, thinking this method causes a waste of the juices, prefer to salt a half hour 
before serving. A little boiling water thrown upon beef just before it goes into the 
oven will tend to retain the juices and secure rare roasting. 

Beef should have a very hot oven from the first ; poultry, pork and lamb, a more 
moderate oven to begin with. 

Tf> make the gravy, take up the meat upon a hot platter, and keep it in a hot 
])lace. Dip or pour off all the fat from the dripping pan, then put the pan upon the 



19 

top uf the stove; add l^oiling water if you have not enough in the pan; thicken 
with browned flour, wet in cold water; stir and hcjil all together until ijuite smooth; 
add salt if it is needed, and strain for the table. 

To broil steaks, have a clear fire of well-l)urnt coals. Use either a broiler or 
toaster, but the latter is the more convenient. Turn as often as the meat begins U> 
drip. Do not salt until it is done, as salt tends to draw out the juices. Add pepper 
and bits of butter and serve immediately upon a hot platter.' 

-^-^-^^^ — 

stp:amed turkey. 

Rub pepper and salt inside the turkey. Fill the body with oysters 
and sew it tip carefully. Cover closely in the steamer, and steam 
from two to three hours ; then take it up ; strain the gravy which 
will be found in the dish ; have an oyster sauce ready, prepared 
like stewed oysters, and pour this gravy, thickened with a little 
butter and flour, into the oyster sauce. Let it just boil, and add 
a little boiled cream. Pour the sauce over the turkey and serve 
immediately. — T. 

JELLIED TURKEY. 

Cut the turkey into pieces of convenient size to pack nicely into the 
kettle, and cover with cold water to three times the depth of the 
meat. Add salt, and bring slowly to the boiling point, skimming 
thoroughly before boiling. Continue to cook slowly until' the meat 
falls from the bones. The litjuor should be boiled down to a 
(]uantity just to cover all. During the last of the boiling, it should 
be seasoned to taste, with salt, pepper, and celery salt, if desired. 
Separate all the nice meat from the bones, placing it in a dish 
or mould — a bread pan being a good shape to slice from. If the 
meat is laid length-wise of the mould it will be nicer when sliced. 
Strain the licjuor upon the meat, and when cold place on ice to 
harden. The only difficulty in preparing this dish is in the quantity 
to which the liquor is reduced. It would better be reduced too 
much than not enough. — Afrs. Geo. IF. Bosworth. 



BONED CHICKEN. 

Boil the chicken in as Httle water as possible, until tender 
enough to slip from the bones easily, then chop a little, put 
back in the water, season to taste with salt, pepper and butter, 
place over the fire and cook a little more, then put into molds. 
The yolks of two or three eggs, stirred in when cooking the last 
time, will improve the dish. — Mrs. H. S. Littlcfichl. 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 

Boil one chicken very tender and shred it. Boil three eggs 
hard. Put one egg cut in two parts lengthwise in the bottom of 
a quart mold, with half a small pickle, each half of the egg placed 
face down ; then put in the meat, filling eggs and pickles on the 
sides and ends, the same as the bottom. Season the liquor with 
salt and pepper, boil it down, and pour over the whole. Set in 
a cool place. As it cools, the meat will jelly so as to pour out 
nicely.— J//-.y. H. S. Liitlcficld. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE. 

Take a boiled chicken cut suitably to serve, fry it in butter 
and remove to a hot dish. Take the liquor in which the chicken 
was boiled, and when boiling add to it one egg mixed with two 
tablespoonfuls of brown flour and a little milk. Season with salt, 
pepper, and chopped parsley. Pour the gravy over the chicken. 
A few slices of onion, fried in the butter, improve it for some 
persons. — Mis. LutJicr Day. 

CHICKEN CURRY WITH RICE. 

Cut one-third of a pound of salt pork in slices and fr)' 
crisp. In this fat fry quite brown two large onions cut thin ; 
add one and a half pint of rich chicken broth, and one 
and a half pound of cold chicken cut in small bits. Grate one 
half cup of fresh cocoanut. Pound in a mortar the rest of the 



cocoaiiut ; stiueeze in one cup of water to get out as much milk 
as possible. Add this milk to the grated cocoanut, and put into 
the frying-pan. Mix three tablespoonfuls of Incha curry powder 
and one tablespoonful of corn starch in a little cold broth ; add 
to this mixture, with the juice of two lemons and a little of the 
grated rind, a piece of butter as large as an egg ; let it simmer 
three hours. If it boils away much, add a little hot water. 

TO COOK THE RICE. 

Put two cups of rice in six quarts of boiling water, let it boil very 
fast fifteen minutes, then put in two heaping tablespoonfuls of salt 
and boil five minutes more, turn into a colander and drain dry. The 
curry is served as a gravy on the rice. Veal, beef and liver may be 
used instead of chicken, in the same way. — Miss Katie Fairbatik, 
Ahmednagah, India. 

CHICKEN WITH WHITE SAUCE— No. i. 

Take the white meat of one chicken, boiled or roasted ; cut it the 
size of almonds. Mix a quarter of a pound of butter and one table- 
spoonful of flour together ; add a pint of boiling milk ; after mixing 
put on the fire. When again boiling, add chicken and two or three 
hard-boiled eggs chopped fine ; let it all simmer a few minutes ; sea- 
son with red j^epper and salt. — Mrs. J. Houston West. 

CHICKEN WITH WHITE SAUCE— No. 2. 

Boil the chicken whole'; salt the water enough to season it well 
just before it is done. Boil a (]uart of milk ; stir into it one egg, a 
l)iece of butter the size of an egg, a little salt, and corn starch 
enough to thicken. Put the chicken on the platter and pour the 
sauce over it. — Mrs. E. H. Dreio. 

POTTED PIGEONS. 

Stuff the pigeons as for a roast. Try out a few slices of pork, and 
brown the pigeons ; brown also a few slices of onion. Cover the 



]:)igeons with water, jnitting in salt, pepper, and a little pounded clove ; 
stew until tender. Serve on crackers in a deep dish. Add dumplings, 
if you choose. — Mrs. C. S. Emvicrton, Peabody, 

MOCK DUCK. 

lake a nice tender round steak ; make stuffing as for turkey ; 
spread the stuffing on the steak ; roll it u]) and tie it. Roast from 
half to three-quarters of an hour, basting with butter. — Mrs. C. W. 
'Train. 

ROAST HAM. 

Put the ham in a roasting pan with a little water, and let it roast 
for about two hours, then take off the skin and put the ham 
liack into the oven. A medium-sized ham will require from four to 
five hours. When taken from the oven, sprinkle with bread crumbs, 
and garnish with cloves, if desired. — Airs. Geo. IV. Duncan. 

TO BOIL CORNED BEEF. 

Select a piece that has been not too long in the brine. Put it into 
hot water and watch it, to skim as it begins to boil. Then cover it 
closely and set it where it will keep at the boiling point for four or 
five hours, according to size. Hard boiling will make it tough. When 
very tender, set it away in the covered kettle until cold, then take 
it out and press it. If you wish to eat a part of it hot, cut off what 
may be needed and return the rest to cool in the water in which it 
was boiled, as this greatly enriches it. — Mrs. C. W. Train. 

SPICED PRESSED BEEF. 

Boil a shin of beef having on it four pounds of lean meat and gristle, 
with four bird peppers, five hours in water enough to cover it ; then 
let the water simmer till a pint remains. Take out the bones, cho]) 
the meat and gristle a little, mix with the juice, and season with one 
tablespoonful of salt, one teaspoonfiil each of sage and summer 



23 

savory, one and a half teaspoonful of curr)' powder, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful each of clove, pmiento and pejjper ; add two pounded 
crackers, put in a deep dish, cover with a plate and press down 
with a weight. Cut in thin slices when cold. — Mrs. Susan Kimball. 

CANNELON OF BEEF. 

Two pounds of beef, rind of half a lemon, three sprigs of parsley, 
teaspoonful of salt, quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, two table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter, one raw egg. Chop meat, parsley and 
lemon rind very fine ; shape into a roll, bake on buttered paper about 
thirty minutes, and serve with tomato sauce. 

STEWED BEEF. 

Buy the middle cut of the rump. For ten pounds, add five quarts 
of water and cook six hours. Put into the water, a bunch of pot 
herbs, a head of celery, two small onions — each stuck with two cloves, 
one large carrot, two small turnips cut fine, one pepper, a little salt. 
This makes a strong gravy, to be served with and around the meat. 
It is better to cut the carrot and cook undl tender, scald the onions 
separately, and put in with the meat. The turnips may be scalded, 
fried, and served around the dish. It must never l)oil, but simmer 
slowl}' on the back of the range. — Mrs. J. B. Su>eff. 

GULASH (Hungarian Dish.) 

Proportions : To two pounds beef without fat, a soup plate of 
fine cut onions, butter enough to brown them, as much potato 
as meat, and as much red pepper as can be taken up on the 
point of a knife. Use a kettle with a close-fitting cover, as the 
meat is to be cooked in its own juice. Put the onions and but- 
ter in a kettle over a hot fire and stir till browned. Then put 
in the meat cut in small pieces, with the salt and pepper. Cook 
slowly, without stirring, till tender, adding a little water, if neces- 
sary, ^^'itl: two ])ounds of meat, nater must be added, as there 



24 

will not be gravy enough from it. The more meat there is used, 
the less need there will be of water. Requires usually three or 
four hours' cooking. Put the potatoes, cut in dice, on the top 
an hour before taking up. Serve hot. — Mrs. E. G. Wood. 

BAKED CALVES' LIVER. 

Lard the liver with fat pork, and put it into an iron pan with a pint of 
water or stock. Bake it three-fourths of an hour, basting it very 
often. Dish the liver. Add to the gravy a piece of butter the 
size of an egg, a little flour, pepper and salt. Boil once and 
pour over the liver. — Mrs. A. Robeson^ Brookline. 

SWEET-BREAD. 

Sweet-breads should be eaten very fresh or not at all. Soak 
them in cold water for about an hour, then boil them in salted 
boiling water or stock until tender — about twenty minutes. When 
ready to serve, sprinkle with pepper and salt, roll them in egg 
and bread crumbs and fry in hot lard or butter. — Mts. M. Gid- 
</i/!i^^s, Bangor, Me. 

SAUSAGE MEAT. 

Twelve pounds of minced meat, one small teacup of salt, two 
large tablespoonfuls of sage, one tablespoonful of pepper, one large 
tablespoonful of summer savory. — Afrs. J. K. Smith. 

BREAST OF VEAL. 

Take a breast of veal, omitting the shoulder. Make a stuffing as 
for turkey and put it under the bones wherever you can, holding it 
in place with skewers. Put it in a kettle with just water enough to 
cover it. Simmer about two hours. Lay on thin slices of salt pork ; 
dredge with flour ; put into a dripping pan with some of the licjuor 
in which it was boiled ; roast for an hour, until well browned. Make 
balls of some of the force meat ; fry them and use with sliced lemon 



25 

to garnish the dish. Use the remaining "liquor, with that in the pan, 
for the gravy. — Mrs. J. H. Duncan. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Three pounds of veal and half a pound of salt pork chopped 
very fine ; two eggs well beaten ; one teacujjful of powdered 
cracker, four teaspoonfuls of salt, three teaspoonfuls of black pepper, 
(if you please, one of clove.) Knead well together and bake 
an hour and a half in a well-buttered pan. To be eaten cold.— 
Mrs. L. Whitticr. 

JELLIED VEAL. 

A knuckle of veal. Boil slowly till the meat slips easily from 
the bones ; take out of the liquor ; remove the bones ; chop the 

meat fine ; season with salt, pepper, mace, sage and thyme. Put 

back into the liquor and boil until it is almost dr)-, and stirs 

with difficulty ; turn into a mold and set away until cold. The 

juice of lemon, added just before taking from the fire, is a great 
impro\'ement. — Mrs. J. Houston West. 

CHOPS, AND TOMATO SAUCE. 
Steam the chops three quarters of an hour, or until very ten- 
der. Mince some bread very fine ; beat an egg very light ; dip 
the chops into the egg, then roll in bread crumbs and fry a deli- 
cate l)rown. 

SAUCE. 

Stew si.\ tomatoes half an hour, with two cloves, a little parsle)-, 
pepper and salt. Put a little butter into a hot sauce-pan, and when 
it bubbles stir into it a heaping teaspoonful of flour ; mix and cook it well, 
and add the cooked tomato ; stir until thoroughly smooth. Arrange 
the chops on a platter and pour the sauce around them. — Mrs. A. H. 
Strong, Rochester, N. Y. 

SALT PORK IN BATTER. 

Cut one-half pound of salt pork in slices one-fourth of an inch 
thick ; cut off the rind and pour over them boiling water, in which 



26 

let them stand five minutes ; turn off the water and fry till they are 
cooked on both sides. Make a batter of one-third of a cup of milk, 
one well-beaten egg, a little salt, one-fourth of a teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, one eighth of a teaspoonful of soda, and five 
tablespoonfuls of flour. Dip the pieces of cooked pork into this 
batter and fry in pork fat like fritters. — Mrs. Susan Kimball. 







1 






"Though on pleasure she was bent, 
She had a frugal mind." 

Cdwpf.k. 

-^-^l*— :- 



rp:mnants of beef. 

Take all the remnants of roast beef — bones, bits of meat and 
gravy, excluding all fat ; cover with cold water and simmmer on 
the back of the stove until the meat falls from the bones. Skim 
out the meat and put in some canned or fresh tomatoes ; stew 
until the tomatoes are cooked ; strain, thicken and season ; put 
back the bits of meat ; boil up once ; add squares of toasted 
bread and send to the table. — Mrs. M. Giddiiigs, Bangor. 

REMNANTS OF BEEF— No. 2. 

']'ake cold roast beef or roast meat of any kind, slice it thin, 
cut it rather small, and lay it, wet with gravy and sufficiently 
peppered and salted, in a meat-pie dish. If liked, a small onion 
may be chopped fine and sprinkled over it. Over the meat \>o\\r 
a couple of stewed tomatoes, a little more pepper, and a thick 
layer of mashed potatoes. Bake slowly in a moderate oven till the 
top is a light brown. — N. H. T. 



28 

CHOWDER OF REMNANTS. 

Trim off all fat or gristle from cold roast beef, beefsteak, or 
any kind of meat, and cut into small bits. Add a few sliced 
potatoes, a sliced onion, salt, pepper, and any gravy which may 
have been left from meat, cover all with water and cook until the 
potatoes are done. 

REMNANTS OF FISH. 

Use any kind of fresh fish. Shred it fine. Cover with it the 
bottom of a deep dish well buttered ; sprinkle over cracker crumbs, 
salt, pepper, and bits of butter ; repeat until the dish is filled, 
having crumbs on top. Moisten with milk, and bake until brown. 

• MINCED MUTTON. 

Mince the cold mutton, season well, and add a cup of good 
gravy, warmed and strained. Strew the bottom of a dish with dry 
crumbs, pour the mixture upon it, cover with fine crumbs and set 
in the oven till very hot ; then break eggs enough over the top 
to cover the mixture well, inserting bits of butter here and there ; 
pepper and salt ; sift pounded cracker lightly upon the eggs, and 
return to the oven until they are set. 

MEAT PATTIES. 

Line small patty pans with good puff paste and bake in a (]uick 
oven. Chop remnants of chicken, or other meat, fine ; season with 
salt and pepper, and heat in a little butter sauce. Fill the shells 
and put them back into the oven till the mixture is slightly 
browned. A little flavoring of tomato improves some meats used 
in this way. — Mrs. M. Giddings, Bangor, Me. 
MOULD OF MEAT. 

Take as much cold meat of any kind as you may require for 
the size of your mould ; mince it very fine. Soak a small quan- 
tity of bread crumbs in any stock, if you have it, if not, in milk ; 



29 

mix this with the meat, then add salt, pepper, ketchup, and an 
egg, well beaten, to bind it all together. Butter a plain tin mould, 
dredge it with flour, liU it with the mixture, flour over the top, 
tie a cloth over it and boil for an hour. When done, turn it 
out of- the mould and serve with a thick brown gravy over it. — 
Mrs. A. Robeson, Brookline. 

REMNANTS OF PORK. 

Bits of cold roast pork may be chopped very fine, seasoned 
with salt and pepper, moistened (if need be) with a little water, 
and baked in paste as turnovers. — C. M. 

CORNED BEEF HASH. 

Chop cold corned beef fine ; mash potatoes and add to them a 
piece of butter the size of an egg ; chop sour apples and mix 
with the potato and meat in equal quantities. Put the mixture 
in a pan with a little butter and let it stand in a moderate oven 
three-quarters of an hour, or a little longer, according to the 
([uantity made. — Mis:s A. G. Becktuith. 

HAM RELISH. 

Take pieces (no matter how small) of cold ham, chop fine, season 
with mustard, pepper, and salt if necessary, moisten with a beaten 
egg and a little cream or milk. Heat through and put in a glass 
or jar to cool. A nice relish for tea, or for sandwiches. Will 
keep several days. — Mrs. A. L. George. 

DEVILED HAM. 

Use any odds and ends of cooked ham, but see that at least 
a tjuarter of the amount is fat. Chop very fine — almost to a 
paste. For a pint of this make a dressing as follows : One even 
tablespoonful of sugar, one even tablespoonful of mustard, a little 
cayenne pepper, one teacupful of vinegar. Mix the sugar, mustard 



30 

and pe^jper thoroui^hly, and add the vinegar little by little. Stir 
it into the chopped ham, and ])ack it in small molds. Serve upon 
a small platter and garnish with parsley ; or it ma}- I)e spread 
between slices of Inittered bread for sandwiches. 

CROQUETTES. 

One pint of any kind of cold meat, (if of several kinds, the better,) 
chopped very fine ; one teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth of a teaspoon - 
fill of cayenne, one sprig of chopped parsley, one egg. Mix all 
together and moisten with milk or cream sufficiently to form in the 
hands. When shaped, dip them into beaten egg and then in pow- 
dered bread crumbs, into which pepper and salt have lieen shaken, 
and fry in boiling lard for a minute and a half. The fat should be 
hot enough to brown a piece of bread while you count forty. — Mrs. 
A. Robesflu, Brookline. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Chop a little, the meat of a good-sized chicken from which bones, 
fat and skin have been removed. Season with salt and pepper. Place 
in a saucepan on the range a piece of butter the size of an egg ; 
when melted add a small half cup of flour and stir constantly ; 
when well mixed, add enough of the water in which the chicken 
was boiled to make the sauce the consistency of thick cream ; 
then add the chopped meat, just let it heat through, and fr\- as 
croquettes. — Miss Train., Newton Centre. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Season cold mashed potatoes with pepper, salt and nutmeg ; 
beat to a cream, with a tablespoonful of melted butter to ever)' 
cupful of potato ; add two or three beaten eggs and some minced 
parsley. Roll into small balls, dip in beaten egg, then in cracker 
crumbs, and fry in hot lard. Cold boiled rice may be used in 
place of potatoes. — Airs. Dr. O. D. Cheney. 



:^IE©©So3^ i 

"■|"he vulgar boil, the learned mast an egg." — PopK. 

SCRAMBLED ECKrS. 

Put the eggs in a moderately heated pan, add butter, .salt and 
pepper, and milk, if you please ; stir constantly until the eggs 
thicken. 

POACHED ECKtS. 

Ha\e the frying-pan lull of salted water, just gentl)- boiling. 
Break each egg into a cup and slide into the water. Let them 
stand without boiling for five minutes. Take them up on a skim- 
mer, and slip on to slices of toast, moistened with hot water and 
butter. Serve immediately. 

BAKED EGGS. 

Break the eggs into a buttered pudding dish, sprinkle o\'er salt 
and pepper, and l)ake in a ([uick oven, until set. Serve in the 
same dish. 

OMELET— No. I. 

Eight eggs ; separate the whites from the )'olks ; beat the whites 
till they will stand alone ; beat the yolks with two tablespoonfuls 



32 

of cornstarch or flour, a little pepper, salt, and one cup of milk. 
Mix all with the whites very lightly. Have the pan hot ; use but- 
ter the size of a walnut. — Mrs. J. C. Tyler. 

OMELET— No. 2. 

Six eggs, one tablespoonful of flour in one cup of milk, one 
teaspoonful of melted butter, one teaspoonful of salt. Yolks and 
whites beaten separately. — Miss A. E. Goodrich. 

OMELET SOUFFLE. 

Add to the yolks of three eggs, well beaten, four tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar and the juice and rind of a lemon. Beat the whites 
of six eggs to the stiffest possible froth. Have the yolks in a 
deep bowl ; add the whites to the mixture. Bake in a well-but- 
tered earthen dish from fifteen to twenty minutes in a moderate 
oven. Serve immediately, or it will fall. — Ellen Hand, Providence. 

BAKED OMELET. 

Heat three gills of milk, with a dessert spoonful of butter. 
Wet a tablespoonful of flour with a tablespoonful of milk. Mix 
with five eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, and stir quickly 
into the milk. Put into a buttered dish and bake fifteen minutes. — 
Mrs. J. F. Davis. 

TOMATO OMELET. 

Five eggs, four small or three large tomatoes, one-half cup of 
milk, one teaspoonful of flour, one scant teaspoonful of salt, half 
a teaspoonful of black pepper. Beat the eggs. Stir flour, salt and 
pepper into the milk, a"nd add to the eggs. Peel the tomatoes, 
chop into small pieces, and add just before turning into the ome- 
let pan. — Mrs. R. H. Seeley. 

DEVILED EGGS. 
Boil six or eight eggs hard, leave them in cold water until 
cold, remove the shells, cut them in halves, slicing a bit from 



33 

the l)ottom to make them stand upright; take out the yolks and 
rub to a smooth paste, with a very Itttle mehed butter, a little 
cayenne pepper, a touch of mustard, salt, and a teaspoonful of 
vinegar. Fill the hollowed whites with this. Cho]) lettuce or white 
cabbage, seasoned with pepper, sah, vinegar, and a little sugar; 
fill your salad bowl with this ; add the eggs and serve. 







E(®5!cS)i 

"Cook, see all your sauces 

Be sharp and pungent to the palate. 

That they may commend you." 

Beal'mont and Fi.etchek. 



--?!( — 



SALAD DRESSING. 
To make this condiment, your poet begs 
The powdered yellow of two hard-boiled eggs; 
Two boiled potatoes passed through kitchen sieve. 
Smoothness and softness to the salad give; 
Let onion's atoms lurk within the bowl, 
^\nd, half suspected, animate the whole; 
( )f mordant mustard, add a single spoon ; 
Distrust the condiment that bites so soon; 
But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault 
To add a double quantity of salt; 
Four times the spoon with oil from Lucas crown. 
And twice with vinegar, procured from town ; 
And lastly, o'er the flavored compound toss 
A magic "soupcon" of anchovy sauce. 
C), green and glorious, O herbaceous treat 1 
'Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat; 
Back to the world he'd turn his fleeting soul. 
And plunge his fingers in the salad liowl : 
Serenely full, the epicure would say, 
"Fate cannot harm me, I have dined today.'" 

SiDNKv Smith. 



35 

SALAD I)RP:SSING— No. i. 

One large tablespoonful of mixed mustard, the yolks of two 
eggs ; rub smooth and add five tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, then 
the yolks of two more eggs ; when smooth, five more tablespoon- 
fuls of oil, then two more yolks and two tablespoonfuls of oil ; 
then a little salt, half a cup of vinegar, and the whites of five 
«ggs, well beaten. — Mrs. Dr. Crmaell. 

SALAD DRESSING— No. 2. 

Three eggs, one tablespoonful each of sugar, oil, and salt, a 
a scant tablespoonful of mustard, a cupful of milk, a cupful of 
vinegar. Stir oil, salt, mustard and sugar in a bowl until j>erfectly 
smooth. Add the eggs, and beat well ; then add the vinegar, 
and finally the milk. Place the bowl in a basin of boiling water, 
and stir the dressing until it thickens like soft custard. This 
dressing will keep two weeks, if bottled and put in cool place. — 
Mrs. John P. Gilinan. 

SALAD DRESSING— No. 3. 

One egg well beaten, one-third of a cup of vinegar, one small 
teaspoonful each of sugar and mustard, a pinch of cayenne pep- 
per, and a piece of butter as large as a walnut. Steam until it 
thickens, stirring constantly. When cool, add cream or milk until 
like soft custard. — Mrs. S. Stuart. 

SALAD DRESSING— No. 4. 

Rul:) the yolk of one hard-boiled egg as smooth as possible, then 
add a tablespoonfiil of butter and the yolk of one raw egg, a tea- 
spoonful each of salt; mustard and sugar, and a tablespoonful of flour. 
Rul) all together until perfectly smooth, then add by degrees one 
teacup of vinegar, (less, if strong,) and last of all, one teacup of 
cream whi|)ped to a froth. — Mrs. M. F. Ames. 



36 

SALAD DRESSING— No. 5. 

Ingredients : One tablespoonful of vinegar, three tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil, one salt-spoonful of salt, one of pepper, one even teaspoon - 
ful of onions scraped fine. Mix the pepper and salt, add the oil and 
onion, then the vinegar ; when well mingled, pour the mixture over 
the salad and mix all together. This is especially nice for lettuce. — 
Mrs. Dudley Porter. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Two quarts of tomatoes, two green peppers and two onions chopped 
fine, two tablespoonfuls of salt, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, four 
cups of vinegar. Boil the onions and peppers in the vinegar until 
soft, then add the tomatoes, and simmer together for nearly an hour. 
Add a teaspoonful of allspice, cloves and cinnamon. — Mrs. J. S. 
Wheeler, 

SHIRLEY SAUCE. 

Two dozen ripe tomatoes, two onions, two large red peppers, four 
cups of vinegar, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, three tablespoonfuls of 
salt. Chop peppers and onions fine. Boil all three hours slowly. — 
Mrs. C. R. Evans. 

GOOD SALAD. 

Chop fine half a head of cabbage. Into it stir a little salt, and 
half a cup of thick cream. Heat half a cup of vinegar, stirring into 
it the beaten yolks of two eggs, a teaspoonful of sugar, and half a 
teaspoonful of mustard. Pour this over the cabbage just as it goes 
to the table. — Mrs. Wm. Fitz, Providence. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

One quart canned tomatoes, two tablespoonfuls of butter, two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, eight cloves, a small slice of onion. Cook the 
tomatoes, onions and cloves, ten minutes. Heat the butter in a 
frying-pan and add the flour. Stir over the fire until smooth and 



37 

brown, and then stir into the tomatoes. Cook two minutes. Season 
to taste with salt and pepper, and nil) through a strainer fine 
enough to keep back the seeds. This sauce is nice for fish, meat 
and macaroni. — Mrs. John P. Gihiia/i. 

TOMATO KETCHUP— No. i. 

One peck of ripe tomatoes, one-half pint of sugar, one-half pint 
of cider vinegar, one tablespoonful of salt, one teaspoonful each 
of allspice, ginger, black pepper and cassia, one-half teaspoonful of 
cayenne pepper, two teaspoonfuls of white mustard. Boil the toma- 
toes two hours ; strain, bottle and seal. — Afrs. E. H. Drew. 

TOMATO KETCHUP— No. 2. 

One gallon of strained tomato, four even tablespoonfuls of salt, 
one tablespoonful and one heaping teaspoonfiil each of allspice, 
mustard, cassia and cloves, three even teaspoonfuls of red pepper, 
one cup of vinegar. Boil the tomatoes before straining, just enough 
to soften them ; then add the spices, and boil away one-third — or 
four hours. — Airs. R. H. Seeley. 

CELERY SAUCE. 

Cut the stalks in small pieces, boil in water, and add milk, 
flour, butter, a little salt and mace. Boil till it is as thick as 
cream. — Mrs. Anna L. George. 

CELERY VINEGAR. 

Upon an ounce of celery seed pour half a ])int of \inegar. Bot- 
tle it and use to season soups and gravies. 

FRENCH MUSTARD. 

Slice an onion into a bowl, cover with vinegar, leave twenty-four 
hours, pour off the vinegar into a basin, i)ut into it one teasjjoon- 
ful of pepper and salt, one tablespoonfiil of brown sugar, mustard 



38 

enough to thicken ; smooth the mustard with vinegar, as you would 
for gravy. Mix it all together, set on the stove and stir until it 
boils. Use it cold. It will kee]) a long time. — Mrs. Warnei- R. 
Whitticr. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Two table spoonfuls of green mint, cut fine : two of brown sugar ; 
one-half cujj of vinegar. Nice with roast lamb, — Miss Cairic 
Duncan. 

BUTl'ER SAUCE. 

Boil one teacupful of milk, and stir into it one and a half tea- 
spoonful of flour mixed with milk or water until perfectly smooth. 
Let this boil two or three minutes, until it thickens a little. Add 
salt and a piece of butter the size of an egg, or more if you 
like. The butter must not be allowed to boil. Slices of hard- 
boiled eggs may be added, or capers to serve with boiled mut- 
ton. — Miss S. P. Whittier. 




r-.p3jpjt,7^;<^,7ii|'gi!E:;|;:, 

"Thou unassuming commonplace of nature." — Wukdswokth. 

— ^-^if 5 

POTATOES. 

New potatoes are best prepared just in time for cooking. Old 
ones should be pared, or have a strip of the skin cut off, and 
left in cold water for an hour or two Ijefore boiling. Put them 
into boiling water, salted, and keep them boiling fast, ^^'hen done, 
drain off all the water, and let them steam ver\- dr\- upon the 
top of the stove or in the oven. In the spring of the year they 
should be mashed and mixed with a little hot milk and butter. 
The)- are ver\- nice roasted with meat. The)- should be pared and 
left in cold water for a while. About an hour before a roast of 
beef is done, put them in the drip]:)ing ])an and baste them as 
the meat is basted. 

SQUASH. 

Stjuash should be steamed rather than boiled ; but perha])s the 
best way is to cut it in large pieces and bake, then s(ra])e from 
the shell and season. 



40 

BEETS. 

Beets are very nice baked, but for this purpose large ones should 
be selected, as they shrink very much in the oven. They require 
from four to six hours, according to size. 

PARSNIPS. 

Parsnips require an hour or two to boil, and may be served 
simply sliced, but they are much nicer fried in butter after they 
have been boiled. 

TURNIPS. 

Turnips should be boiled in salted water, and served either 
sliced or mashed. 

ONIONS. 

Onions are best boiled in milk. If water is used, change it 
when they are half done. Serve whole, or in a dressing made of 
milk and butter, salt and pepper. 

CARROTS. 

Carrots, after boiling about two hours, should be cut in dice, 
and seasoned with butter, pepper and salt. 

BEANS AND PEAS. 

Beans and peas should be boiled in as little water as may be, 
and salted when nearly done. If the water is hard, soften it with 
a pinch of soda. 

GREENS. 

All kinds of greens should be left in cold water for an hour or 
two, boiled in salted water, drained in a colander, and serve<I with 
slices of hard-boiled egg. 



41 
CABBAGE. 

Cabbage is frequently lioiled with corned beef, but a Ijetter way 
is to take some of the Hquor from the pot and boil it b}- itself. 
Serve whole, or chop fine and cover it with butter sauce. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Cauliflower should be boiled in a netting bag, in salted water, 
for about an hour. Serve plain or with butter sauce. 

ASPARAGUS. 

.■\sparagus will boil in half an hour. Serve very hot on slices 
of toast moistened with the asparagus water and generousl)' Imt- 
tered. 

GREEN CORN. 

Green corn should boil ten minutes, or just long enough to set 
the milk. Boiling after this makes it hard. If you cut it off, 
draw a sharp knife through each row and with the back of the 
knife push out the kernel, leaving the hull. 

MACARONI. 

Macaroni should not be washed, but the pipes may be cleaned 
by blowing through them. Break into short bits, put into boiling 
water, salted, and cook for half an hour ; then drain antl ser\e 
with drawn Initter, or simply bits of butter and salt. 

MACARONI WITH OYSTERS. 

Boil macaroni in salted water and drain it through a colander. 
Take a deep earthen dish, and put in alternate 'layers of maca- 
roni and oysters. Sprinkle grated cheese on the layers of maca- 
roni. Bake until brown. 

MACARONI WITH CHEESE. 

Boil macaroni about twenty minutes ; drain and cut in pieces. 
Butter a baking dish, jnit in a layer of macaroni, a layer of grated 



42 » 

cheese, and a little drawn butter. Fill the dish in this way. On top 
put a layer of cracker crumbs with some bits of butter. Bake al)out 
twenty minutes, or until it is nicely browned. If one objects to so 
much cheese, the dish may be filled with macaroni, and the cheese 
grated over the top only. — Miss A. S. Hobbs. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

A layer of tomatoes, peeled and sliced, layer of bread crumbs, pejj- 
per, salt, and piece of butter. Fill baking-dish in this way, with but- 
ter on top. Bake twenty minutes. Sweet corn and tomatoes pre- 
pared in the same way make a very nice dish. — Miss A. S. Hobbs. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Cut the corn from half a dozen cobs, and an hour and a half 
before dinner time put the cobs and a pint of shelled beans into 
cold water to boil. Half an hour before serving take out the cobs 
and put in the corn. Season with salt and pepper, and if you choose 
add butter and milk when you are ready to take it up. 

SPINACH. 

Boil in water fifteen minutes. When tender drain thoroughly, chop 
fine, put in a sauce-pan with two or three tablespoonfuls of milk and 
a small piece of butter. Stir until hot. — Katrina Peterson. 

SARATOGA FRIED POTATOES. 

Pare the potatoes and cut them into very thin slices. Put them in 
ice-water over night and fry in boiling lard, as you would doughnuts. 
When taken from the frying-pan put them into a napkin or towel, 
thus absorbing all the fat which may remain on them. 

ESCALOPED POTATOES. 

Cut raw potatoes in thin slices ; put them in a buttered pudding- 
dish ; s]mnkle on each layer a litde pepper, salt, and bits of butter. 



43 

Fill the dish three-fourths full ; cover with milk and bake slowly two 
hours. A few bread or cracker crumbs spread over the top layer of 
potatoes may be added, if desired. — Mrs. L. E. Whittier. 

STEWED CELERY. 

Take a head of celery, strip off the leaves, clean and scrape the 
stalks thoroughly, and cut into pieces about an inch long. Boil 
moderately in water about three hours, or until tender ; lift from the 
water, drain thoroughly, and pour over a dressing of water thickened 
with flour, to which add a piece of butter and a little salt. Serve 
\\ol.—Mrs. J. B. Swctt. 

RICE. 

\Vash the rice by rubl)ing hard between the hands in cold water. 
Put a cupful of rice, a teaspoonful of salt, and a pint and a half of 
milk and water into a milk-boiler, and boil without stirring until it is 
dry — probably a little more than an hour. — Mrs. S. W. W. 

' A BLACK MAN'S RECIPE TO DRESS RICE. 

Wash him well, much wash in cold water, the rice flour make him 
stick. ^Vater boil already very fast. Throw him in, rice can't burn, 
water shake him too much. Boil quarter of an hour, or little more ; 
rub one rice in thumb and finger, if all rub away, him quite done. 
Put rice in colander, hot water run away ; pour cup of cold water 
on him, put back rice in saucepan, keep him covered near the fire, 
then rice all ready. Eat him up. 

BAKED BEANS. 

Soak a pint of l)eans in plenty of cold water over night. In the 
morning skim them out into a small-sized bean-pot, putting about 
half a pound of salt pork near the top. Fill the pot full of cold 
water and let it stand on the back of the stove for about two or three 
hours. Pour off the most of the water and fill up again with cold 



44 

water, adding a ])inch of soda, and jnit into an o\en so moderately 
heated that they will be at least an hour coming to the boiling point ; 
after that the heat may be increased. They will be sufficiently cooked 
at supper time. Add hot water if necessary. When nearl)' done, 
taste to see if they need salt. 







' ' To know 

That which before us hes in daily life 

Is the power of wisdom." 

Milton. 



--)!(— 



Ciood housekeepers are specially anxious to supply their families with 
jj;oo(l Ijread, and this cannot be done without good materials. The flo ur 
known as the new process, or Haxall flour, is unquestionalily the best for 
bread. It costs a little more than the St. Louis, or old process flour, but 
as it swells more in mixing, it is quite as economical. The best results in 
cakes and pastry, as well as cream of tartar biscut, are secured by the St. 
Louis flour; it is therefore necessary to keep both kinds in our houses. 

The second requisite for good bread is good yeast. There are several 
varieties of yeast cake in the market which can be depended upon. The 
favorite in this vicinity seems to be the V^ienna Compressed Yeast Cake, 
which is very sure if used fresh and- with care as to quantity. If too much 
is used it will impart a disagreeable flavor to the i)read. We give lielow 
three rules for liquid yeast; all excellent, easily made, and if kept in a cool 
place, retaining their virtues for several weeks. 

If cream of tartar and soda are used, great care should be exercised in 
the measurement, and also in the purchase of these articles, as they are very 
liable to adulteration. Some of our druggists and grocers make a specialty 
of them, and may be relied upon to furnish them pure. 

Baking powder seems to be coming into favor as a substitute for these 
articles, and if the variety is good may be used with excellent results. We 



46 

quote from ilall's Journal of Health for April, 1S82, the following govern- 
ment analysis of two of the leading baking powtlers: — 

"I have examined samples of 'Cleveland's Supsriv)r liaking Powder,' and 
'Royal Baking Powder,' purchased by myself in this city, and I find they 
contain : 

Cleveland's SuPERioii BAKhNi; Powder — 
Cream of Tartar 
Bicarbonate of Soda 
Flour 
Available carbonic acid gas, 12.61 per cent, equivalent to 118.2 cubic inches 
of gas per oz. of powder. 



Royal Baking Powder — 
Cream of Tartar 
Bicarbonate of Soda 
Carbonate of Ammonia 
Tartaric Acid 
Starch 
Available cirbonic acid gas, 12.40 per cent, equivalent to 1 16. 2 cuiiic 
inches of gas per oz-. of powder. 

Ammonii gii, 0.4.3 P-"" cent, equivalent to 10.4 cubic inches per oz. of 
powder. 

Note. — The Tartaric acid was doubtless introduced as free acid, but sub- 
sequently combined with amaionia, and exists in the powder as a Tartrate of 
Ammonia. 

E. G. LOVE, Ph. D. 
New York, Jan'y 17th, i88j. 



The above shows conclusively that 'Cleveland's Superior' is a strictly pure 
Cream of Tartar Biking Powder. It has also been analyzed by Prof. John- 
son, of Yale College; Dr. Genth, of the University of Pennsylvania; Presi- 
dent Morton, of the Stevens Institute; Wm. M. Habirshaw, F. C. S., Analyst 
for the Chemical Trade of Ne.v '\'ork, and other eminent chemists, all of 
whom pronounce it absolutely pure and healthful." 

Some persons consider much kneading essential to excellence in V)read, 

but a little skillful kneading and cutting with a chopping knife just before 

it goes into the baking-pans will suffice to make it tender. The loaves should 

be kept in a warm place until they are about twice as large as when first taken 

out, and then baked in a pretty hot oven, from forty to sixty minutes, 

according to size. Cover \\ith paper or a slide «hen the crust has attained 
the right color. 



47 

The best baking-pans for bread are made of Russia iron. When the 
loaves come from the oven they should be tilted against the pans, so as to 
haxe a free circulation of air all around them. After being thus exposed 
for eight or ten hours, they may be ])ut away in closely covered tin boxes 
or stone jars. 

--^-*-^r- — 

YEAST— No. I. 

Orate a half-dozen large potatoes into a deej) earthen dish ; pour on 
some hot water and boil for a few minutes, stirring all the. time with 
a silver spoon, until it is of the consistency of thick cream. Add 
one-third of a cupful of salt and one-third of a cupful of sugar. 
Cool to about blood heat, add a cupful of yeast and keep it in a 
warm place until risen, then cork it tight in a bottle, or keep it in a 
preserving jar. — Miss Susan JoJiusoiu Brunswick, Me. 

YEAST— No. 2. 

Pare and quarter two large potatoes, and boil in nearly a quart of 
water ; when soft mi.x thoroughly with two large tablespoonfuls of 
flour, two of sugar, and one teaspoonful of salt, then ])our the water 
in which the potatoes were boiled over the mixture ; when nearly 
cold add one teacupful of baker's yeast, and set in a warm place to 
rise. When risen, bottle and keej) in a cool ]:)lace. — Mrs. A. A. 
[oil n son. 

YEAST— No. 3. 

Upon a tablespoonful of the best Shaker pressed hops i)ut one 
pint of cold water and one pint of hot water ; let them just come 
to boil, and strain upon a cupful of grated raw potato, a scant 
half cupful of salt, and a quarter of a cupful of sugar ; let this 
come to boil, stirring carefully, and when nearly cold add a 
cupful of yeast and let it stand in a warm ])lace till well risen ; 
then botde. — Mrs. E. J J'. Ames. 



RAISED BREAD— No. i. 

Two (juarts of flour, one tablespoonful of lard, salted, one tea- 
cupful of yeast, (No. 2,) scalded milk or milk and water enough 
to mix the flour ; stir with a knife and cut the dough freely. 
Rise over night ; in the morning cut the dough again and add 
a little soda; mould, and rise a few minutes in pans. This (juan- 
tity will make two loaves and a small pan of biscuit. — Mrs. A. A. 
Johnson. 

RAISED BREAD— No. 2. 

A (juart of warm milk and water, in the proportion of two- 
thirds milk to one-third water ; a tablespoonful of butter, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a half cupful of yeast, (No. 3,) in which a pinch 
of soda has been dissolved. Stir in flour with a broad, strong 
knife, to make a moderately stiff dough ; cover close and set 
away to rise. In the morning take out upon a moulding-board, 
knead a little, and cut with a chopping-knife, which makes it ten- 
der. Take out into loaves or cut into biscuit. Set them in a 
warm place till light. Bake in an oven hot enough to brown 
them in ten or fifteen minutes, then cover with a paper until 
done. The milk used should always have been previously scalded, 
and then the dough may be kept in a cool place for several 
days, and baked as it may be needed. 

Nice Graham Bread may be made by taking a piece of this 
dough, when very light, large enough for half a loaf. Work into 
it, with the hand, a little soda dissolved in half a cup of milk, 
add salt and molasses, and enough Graham meal to stiffen it. 
Knead a very little and rise again. — Mrs. C. IV. Traiii. 

RYE BREAD— N(x 1. 

One quart of bolted rye, one pint of flour, two tablespoonfuls 
of Indian meal, one-half cu]i of yeast ; moisten with milk to the 



49 

stiffness of flour bread, set it to rise and treat it like raised flour 
bread. — Mrs. John Keeiy, Kingston. 

RYE BREAD— No. 2. 

One. quart of rye flour, one pint of wheat flour, one pint of 
milk and water, two-thirds of a cup of yeast, a little salt : stir 
this up at night ; in the morning add one egg, one-half cup of 
sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, a small teaspoonful of soda ; 
stir all thoroughly together, and put in a pan to rise. Let it 
rise one hour, and then bake. — Airs. J. V. Smiley. 

BREAD FROM GLUTEN FLOUR. 

Into about two quarts of gluten flour put a little salt, a cup 
two-thirds , full of yeast. Before going to bed set the sponge with 
about one and one-half pints of milk or water ; in the morning 
knead the sponge and put in about one tablespoonful of sugar 
and one of lard, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of soda ; keep 
in a warm place, and when it^ becomes light, knead again and 
put into pans to rise. Use your judgment about kneading. When 
it becomes light in the pans, put it in a moderately heated oven 
and bake from three-fourths of an hour to an hour. This will 
make two large loa\'es. // works equally well loithout the sui^ar. lard 
and soda, and for dia/>efiis sugar must be omitted. 

BROWN BREAD— No. i. 

One egg, one cup of sour milk and two cups of sweet milk. 
or three cups of sweet milk, two-thirds cup of molasses, one heap- 
ing cup of Graham meal, one cup of rye, one cup of Indian 
meal, one teaspoonful of soda, a little salt. Steam three hours, then 
set in the oven twenty minutes. — Mrs. J. Houston J I 'est. 

BROWN BREAD— No. 2. 

One and one-half cuj) of Indian meal, the same of rye. one 
cup of flour, two-thirds of a cujj of molasses, nearh- three cups 



50 

of milk, or milk and water, one teaspoonful of soda, and a little 
salt. Steam four hours, then take off the cover and let it stand 
in the oven fifteen minutes. — Mrs. Helen A. Chase. 

BROWN BREAD— No. 3. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of Indian meal, one cup of rye. 
one cup of flour, three scant teaspoonfuls of soda, one of salt. 
Make a not too stiff batter with water. Butter your bread-pan, 
pour in the batter and steam three hours or more. Then cook 
in the oven half an hour. — Mao-ixic Donne//. 

BROWN BREAD— No. 4. 

Four cups of Indian meal, one of rye meal, one of molasses, 
one egg, one teaspoonful of soda, one pint of water, one of 
milk, a little salt. Bake four hours, covered. — Mrs. Geo. H. 
App/eton. 

BROWN BREAD— N(X 5. 

Two cups of Indian meal, one-half cup of rye meal, one cup 

of flour, two cups of sweet milk, one-half cup of molasses, one 

teaspoonful of soda, a little salt. Steam four hours. — Mrs. Dr. 
Tow/e. 

THIRD BISCUIT. 

One pint of sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda, salt, one-half 
cup of molasses, one-third of a cup of rye meal, Indian meal and 
flour, stiff enough to drop from a spoon. Bake in a hot oven. — 
Mrs. P/ielu- How. 

RYE BISCUIT. 

Two cups of rye, one cup of flour, two eggs, one teaspoonful 

of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one tablespoonful 

of molasses, a little salt, milk sufficient to make a stiff batter. — 
Mrs. Dr. Cro7ve//. 



51 



PARKKR HOL'SK ROLLS. 



Put two ( marts of flour into a pan. Make a hole in the flour 
and put in half a cup of yeast, a tablespoonful of sugar, a table- 
spoonful of butter, a little salt, and one pint of milk. When risen, 
mix and leave to rise again. After it has risen the second time, 
cut into thin, round biscuit. With a ])it of cloth spread over 
each a little melted butter, then fold over and put in a pan. 
Spread a little melted butter on the top of each roll. When well 
risen, bake in a (]uick oven. Do not knead at all. — Mry. [ona- 
fJian Ki)nball. 




^-^ — ^ ^ < <s ^ 



-v^ 



iAKFAS^ AH© flEA 

"And then to breakfast, with 
What appetite you have." 

Shakspere. 



"-5(^- 



SQUASH BREAKFAST CAKES. 

One pint of sifted st]uash, one large tablespoonful of lard melted 
into the squash, two tablespoonfuls of white sugar, one-third of a 
compressed yeast cake dissolved in half a cup of warm water, a 
little salt. Stir in flour until it is as stiff as bread-dough ; mould 
a little ; let it rise over night ; roll out without moulding in the 
morning. Make into biscuit and let them rise half an hour or 
more and bake fifteen minutes. — Miss Site E. Emerson. 

SQUASH INDIAN CAKE. 
Two cups of Indian meal, one cup of sifted squash, one cup 
of flour, one- half cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar, half as much soda, a little salt. Mix in one pint of milk, 
and bake in a hot oven one-half hour. — Miss Annie J. Gile. 

SQUASH ROLLS. 

One pint of flour, three-fourths of a cup of sugar, one cup of 
sifted squash. l)utter the size of an English walnut, salt, one and 



53 

one-third cup of milk, a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half as 
much soda. Bake in a roll-pan, twenty minutes. — iWrs. E. W. 
Ames. 

RYE PUFFS. 

Two cups of rye meal, one of flour, one of milk, one egg, 
one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream of tartar, tablespoonful of 
sugar, a little salt. Bake in gem pan, or as griddle cakes. — Mrs. 
F. A. Brown. 

POP-OVERS. 

One egg, one cup of milk, one cup of flour, a little salt. Bake 
in gem pan or in buttered cups, filling them half full. — Mrs. J. S. 
Wheeler. 

TEA CAKE. 

One Clip of sugar, one-half cup of butter, two eggs, one-half 
cup of milk, two cups of flour, one teaspoonful of cream of tar- 
tar, one-half teaspoonful of soda. — Mrs. J. V. Smiley. 

BREAKFAST CAKE. 
One quart of flour, one pint of milk, two eggs, one small cup 
of white sugar, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, one of soda, 
one of salt, a piece of butter as large as an egg. Bake in gem 
pan or cups. — Mrs. S. Sli/art. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 
One cupful of Graham flour, one of wheat flour, one egg, salt, 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half as much soda, milk 
enough to make a stiff batter. Rye meal or In<lian meal may be 
used instead of Ciraham flour. — Mrs. T. G. Appleton. 

BERRY CAKE— No i. 

Two heaping bowls of flour, one of berries, one of sugar, one 
])int of milk, one and one-fourth teas])oonful of soda, a ]iiece of 



54 

l)utter size of an egg rubbed into the flour, a little salt. Rake 
three-quarters of an hour. — Mrs. Wm.Jeffers. 

BERRY CAKE— No. 2. 

One egg. two-thirds of a cup of sugar, one large spoonful of 
butter, one cup of milk, one pint of flour, two cups of berries, 
one-half teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. — 
Mrs. M. F.Jolinsoii. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE. 

A rule of cream of tartar biscuit, made quite rich with butter 
and sugar. Bake, split into thin slices and butter the slices. Sugar 
a plenty of strawberries and put between the slices. Serve hot. — 
Mrs. Win. S. Pcrley. 

PEACH SHORT-CAKE. 

One and one-half pint of flour, two tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter, one pint of milk, one egg, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, 
one of soda. Bake in two cakes, split and butter well. Spread 
between the layers, peaches, mashed and sugared. Pour over cream, 
if you like. — Mrs. Win. Fitz. Providence, R. I. 

CORN CAKE— No. i. 

One-half cup of sugar, two large tablespoonfuls of butter, one or 
two eggs, two cups of milk, two of flour, one of Indian meal, two 
teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, one of soda. — Miss Ella Moore. 

CORN CAKE— No. 2. 

Two eggs, one-half cup of sugar, two cups of sour milk, two of 
Indian meal, one of flour, a half teaspoonful of soda, ^It. — Mrs. L. 
Whittier. 

CORN CAKE— No. 3. 

One cup of Indian meal, two of flour, two of sweet milk, one egg, 
one tablespoonful of white sugar, two heaping teaspoonfuls of cream 



55 

of tartar, one of socia. Bake in gem pan or rings. — Miss H. D. 
Ncivcomb. 

CORN CAKE— No. 4. 

One cup of sweet milk, one heaping cup of corn meal, one table- 
spoonful of flour, a pinch of salt, a teaspoonful of Cleveland's superior 
l)aking powder. The meal should be fine, and the cake must not be 
o\-erdone in the least. — Mrs. Win. Brooks. 

INDLAN CUP CAKES. 

( )ne coffee cup of Indian meal, a piece of butter size of half an 
egg, salt, scalded with one pint of boiling milk ; add three eggs, 
whites and yolks beaten separately. Bake immediatel\- in cups. — Mrs. 
C. JV. Train. 

INDIAN DROP CAKES. 

One pint of loJiitc Indian meal, teaspoonful of salt, butter big as 
half an egg. Scald thoroughly. Add two eggs, well beaten, and milk 
until it will just drop from a spoon. Bake in a hot oven, drojiped 
upon a pan, or in gem pans. — Mrs. C. JV. Train. 

WHITE INDIAN BANNOCK. 

One pint of 7C'//i/e Indian, one pint of milk, one pint of water, one 
tablespoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt. Boil the milk and 
water together and pour it over the meal. When thoroughl\- mi.\ed, 
return to the kettle and boil till it is thick. Then cool it, add three 
beaten eggs, sak and sugar, and bake.— J/m /t. H. Train. Newton 
Centre. 

DUTCH APPLE CAKE. 

Make a rich biscuit dough, roll about half an inch thick and ]jut 
in a pan ; stick thickly, sliced apples in rows over the top and sprinkle 
with sugar. Bake, and serve with sugar and cream. — Mrs. E//>ri(fi:;c 
Woo,/. 



56 

PAN cakp:s— No. I. 

One cup of rye, one-half cup of Indian, two cups of flour, one- 
half cup of sugar, one-third cup of yeast, salt ; mix and rise. When 
risen, add an egg, and fry in boiling lard. — Miss Sallie Szvan. 

PAN CAKES— No. 2. 

Two cups of milk, two cups of rye, two-thirds cup of Indian meal, 
one-third cup of flour, one egg, one teaspoonful of soda, two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, (or one-third cup of molasses.) and a little salt. — 
Mrs. J. K. Smith. 

PAN CAKES— No. 3. 

One egg, one cuj:) of sugar, one cup of milk, two teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar, one of soda, a little salt and nutmeg ; mix (]uite stiff 
with flour. — Mrs. JVm. Jeffers. 

PAN CAKES— No. 4. 

One pint of milk, two eggs, one cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of 
soda, a little salt, one-third Indian meal, two-thirds rye flour. — Mts. 
Phcbc How. 

SWEET APPLE PANCAKES, 

Pare and chop four sweet apples. Stir them into batter made of one 
egg, two tablespoonfuls of molasses and one of brown sugar, a little 
salt, one cup of sour milk, two-thirds of a teaspoonful of soda, one- 
half cujj of rye meal, one and one-half cup of rye flour. Fry in hot 
lard. — Mrs. Susan Kimball. 

JOLLY BOYS. 

Two cups of Indian meal, one-half cup of sugar, and a little salt. 
Pour boiling water over it, and stir until a thick dough. When cool, 
add one well-beaten egg, one cup of flour, one-half teaspoonful of 
soda. Yxs like jjancakes, in boiling lard.— J/;-.f. CJia'i. B. Emerson. 



57 
APPLE FRITTERS. 

Make a batter of one egg, one cup of milk, flour to make as stiff 

as common fritters, a little salt. Stir into the batter about one pint 

of chopped apples. Fry as you do pancakes. Sugar them as you 
take them out. — Mrs. L. W. JoJinsou. , 

DOUGHNUTS— No. i. 

One egg, three-fourths of a cup of sugar, piece of butter half the 
size of an egg, one cup of sweet milk, very small teaspoonful of 
soda, one cup of yeast, flour to make it as stiff as you can stir with a 
spoon, a little nutmeg and cinnamon ; rise over night. — Mrs. Josiali 
Brown. 

DOUGHNUTS— No. 2. 

Butter size of an egg, one egg, coffee cup of milk, large coffee cup 
of sugar, salt, spice, if you please ; half cupful of yeast, pinch of soda, 
flour enough to make it as stiff as bread. — Mrs. Rebecca Hale. 

DOUGHNUTS— No. 3. 

Two eggs, one cup of sugar, butter size of half an egg, cup of 
milk, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
spice to taste, flour to roll. — Miss S. E. Fitts. 

DOUGHNUTS— No. 4. 

Teacup of sour cream, one teaspoonful of soda, one cup of 
sugar, three eggs, flour enough to roll, a little salt and spice. — 
Mrs. Sprin!^, Portland. 

MIRACLES. 

Three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of melted l)utter ; mix with flour 
to roll thin, sprinkle over sugar, cut in squares, double together 
and cut long slits, then take every other link on the forefinger 
and slip from the finger into boiling lard. — Mrs. J. F. Davis. 



58 

CrRIDDLE CAKES. 

Sour milk, soda enough to sweeten it, a little salt, a very little 
melted butter, flour to make a thin batter. Have ready a hot 
griddle, and try a spoonful to see that it is right before cooking 
the whole. They are very nice thickened in j^art with (Iraham 
meal, boiled rice, hominy, or bread crumbs. Add eggs, if you 
choose, but they are more delicate and tender without them. 
Very nice griddle cakes are made by mixing Graham meal with milk 
and yeast at night, and frying in the morning, just like buckwheats. 

OATMEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One pint of oatmeal mush, one pint of flour, two eggs, piece 
of butter the size of an egg, one and one-half pint of sour milk 
or buttermilk, a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in boiling water just 
before baking. — Miss Maria Beach, Framingham. 

INDL\N GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Two cups white corn meal, one cup of flour, one-half cup of 
yeast, one teaspoonful of salt ; milk added to make a stiff batter ; 
put in a warm place to rise over night, as a sponge for bread. — 
Mrs. T. T. Mnus^e/; No. Adams. 

RYE GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One cup of sweet milk, one egg, salt, enough rye flour to make 
a batter, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar sifted into the flour, 
half a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the milk. — Jitlia A. Mar- 
shal, M. D. 

MUFFINS— No. I. 

Two cups of rye meal, one cup of flour, two cups of sour 
milk, soda sufificient to sweeten, two eggs, three teaspoonfuls of 
molasses, a little salt. 

Indian muffins may be made by the same rule, substituting Indian 
for rye and sugar for molasses. — Mrs. /ohn Kce/ry. Kingston. 



59 

MUFFINS— No. 2. 

( )ne pint of milk, two eggs, piece of butter half as large as an 

egg, a little salt, flour enough to make a batter as for griddle 

cakes, yeast enough to make it rise in a few hours. Pour into 

rings, and bake on the griddle. — Mrs. Phincas ll'chstcr, Bradford. 

MUFFINS— No. 3. 
One egg, one tablespoonful of sugar, one of butter, a pinch of 
salt ; stir to a cream. Add three cups of sweet milk. To two 
cups of fine flour add two cups of gluten and four teaspoonfuls 
of Cleveland's superior baking powder. Stir slowly into the milk 
and bake in hot gem pans in a hot oven. — M7-s. A. H. Strong;, 
Rochester, N. Y. 

MUFFINS— No. 4. 

One cup of sour milk, half a teaspoonful of soda, one table- 
spoonful of molasses, one of melted butter, one cup of (jraham 
flour, one-half cup of wheat flour, a little salt. Bake in a quick 
oven. — Mrs. A. H. Herring. 

MUFFINS— No. 5. 
One pint of milk, one tablespoonful of rice flour, butter (melted) 
size of half an egg, salt, dessertspoonful of sugar, yeast and flour 
to make a batter. Just before frying, add one egg, well l)eaten. 
and a pinch of soda. — Mrs. Chadwick. 

WAFFLES. 

One and one-half pint of milk, four and one-half cups of flour, 
two-thirds cup of butter, two eggs, one-half cup of Indian meal, 
a little salt, and one-half cup of yeast. — Miss R. Blaisdcll. Boston. 

— -^-^1^^^- — 



BRUISS. 

Take crusts of brown bread, and if they are hard and drv, lav 
them over night in a little water. In the morning add milk and 



6o 

boil slowly. Sprinkle in salt, and just Ijefore serving add a little 
butter. It is improved by adding a little white bread. 

COTTAGE CHEESE. 

Set away a c[uart or more of skimmed milk to sour. When it 

has just thickened, pour into it about as much boiling water, and 

leave it for half an hour ; then strain through a cloth. Salt the 
curd and it is ready to serve. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

One pint of sweet corn, grated ; one egg, well beaten ; small 

cup of flour, teaspoonful of salt ; mix well together and fry like 

oysters. 

FRIED BANANAS. 

Add a little milk to a well-beaten egg, and have ready some 
finely pounded and sifted bread crumbs and a kettle of boiling 
lard. Skin the bananas and dip them (whole) into the egg and 
then into crumbs, and fry from three to five minutes, until the)- 
are of a delicate brown color. — Afiss A. B. Train, Newton Centre. 

OATMEAL. 

Stir a cupful of steam-cooked oatmeal and a little salt into 
about a pint of Ijoiling water. Let it cook without more stirring, 
until the water is absorbed — about half an hour. Putting it into 
cold water, and too much stirring, injure both flavor and con- 
sistency. The easiest way is to cook it in a milk-boiler. 

CRISPED CRACKER. 

Split common crackers ; butter them well. Lay them buttered 

side up in baking-pans and brown in a quick oven. Good either 

hot or cold. 

FRENCH TOAST. 

One pint of milk, two eggs, a little salt. Put slices of very 
light bread into the custard for a few minutes, then put them 



6i 

upon a hot buttered griddle, turning tliem to brown l)otl-i sides. 
Eat with butter and sugar. — Afrs. C. IF. Train. 

APPLE SLUMP— No. i. 

Fill a large-sized bean-pot with tart apples cut in (|uarters. Add 
sufficient molasses to nearly cover them, and a teaspoonful of all- 
spice ; cover the top with brown bread ; bake three hours, then 
cut the bread into the apples and bake one-half hour longer. 
Serve when hot, with cream. — Mrs. F. A. Broton. 

APPLE SLUMP— No. 2. 

Fill a three-pint dish nearly full of pared and tjuartered apples 
of some variety that will cook easily. Add a , cupful each of 
molasses and sugar, half a cupful of water, some bits of butter 
and a little cinnamon. Cover with a cream of tartar crust, a little 
richer and softer than for biscuit. Steam an hour and a half. 
Pour upside down into a deep pudding-dish and serve imme- 
diately. 












•Wi — 1 

-,A^ — • 




On Thanksgiving day, when from East and from West, 
From North and from South come the pilgrim and guest, 
When the gray-haired New Englander sees round his board 
The old broken links of affection restored, 
When the care-wearied man seeks his mother once more, 
And the worn matron smiles where the girl smiled before. 
What moistens the lip and what brightens the eye. 
What calls back the past, like the rich pumpkin pie? 

Whittier. 

— ^^-jj(" ^ • — 

PUFF PASTE— No. i. 

One (juart of flour, one cup of lard cut in with a knife, (Mie 
teaspoonful of salt ; add enough ice water to make a stiff paste ; 
then take one cup of butter, divide into four parts, roll in, 
sprinkling each time with flour. — Mrs. J. V. Smiley. 

PUFF PASTE— No. 2. 

One pound of flour and a poiuid of butter. Work the butter 
with a spoon until it is soft and pliable. Divide it into four 
ecjual i)arts, and with a knife cut one part into the flour. Mix 
with a very little ice water ; take it out upon the moulding-board ; 



63 

pound it with the rolHng-pin until it adheres sufficiently to roll 
out ; add the second portion of butter, then the third and fourth. 
Put it upon the ice to cool ; and it is better to stand over night 
before using. — Mrs. F. M. Sabine, Bangor, Me. 

PUFF PASTE— No. 3. 
Two pounds of flour, one and one-fourth pounds of butter. Rub 
one-third of the butter into one-half of the flour, reserving the re- 
mainder of the flour to roll in with the balance of the butter. Use 
no more than the weight of flour. — Mrs. S. L. Holt. 

SHELLS FOR TARTS— No. i. 

One and a quarter pound of butter, two pounds of flour. Stir 
one egg into one and one-half pound of the flour. Stir up stiff with 
water, roll out, put the -butter in the centre and roll out three times. — 
Mrs. M. Steele. 

SHELLS FOR TARTS— No. 2. 

Into a pint of flour sift one teaspoonful of cream of tartar and 
one-half teaspoonful of soda. Rub lightly into it one cup of butter ; 
mix with half a cup of milk. Bake in a quick oven. This quantity 
makes twenty-five tarts. — Mrs. Jas. Noyes. 

MINCE PIES— No. I. 
Three pounds of meat, six of apples, one and one-half of suet, 
three of raisins, and four of sugar ; four nutmegs, three lemons, 
ground cloves and cinnamon. Moisten as you please. — Mrs. Abel 
Page. 

MINCE PIES— No. 2. 

Four pounds each of meat, apples, suet, raisins, and sugar, five 
nutmegs and other spice to taste. — Mrs. J. K. Smith. 

MINCE PIES— No. 3. 
Two one-half pounds meat after it is boiled, one pound of pork, 
one-half pound of butter, two pounds of raisins, two and three-quar- 



64 

ters pounds of a|)ples, two and onedialf pounds sugar. Mixing and 
spice to the taste. — Afrs. S. L. Holt. 

MOCK MINCE MEAT. 

Three pounded crackers, one cup of sugar, two cups of water, one- 
half cu}) each of vinegar and melted butter, cup of raisins, salt and 
spice to taste. 

SQUASH PIE. 

Steam the squash, and rub througli a hair sieve. Allow two or 
three eggs to each pie, and beat them very light indeed ; then 
beat eggs and squash together. Add milk, sugar, and salt. Flavor 
with vanilla, ginger, or mace. 

(tRANDMOTHER'S pumpkin PIE. 

Five pounds of pumpkin, stewed and strained, two c^uarts scalded 
milk, two-thirds of a cup of molasses, one-half cup of brown sugar, 
two teaspoonfuls of ginger, a litde salt. 

Pastry made of cream, or one pint of flour, one tablespoonful of 
lard and one of butter, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and half 
as much soda. Bake two hours. — Mrs. F. A. Brown. 

SWEET POTATO PIE. 

Boil two good-sized sweet potatoes, and when tender rub through 
the colander. Beat the yolks of three eggs light ; stir with a pint of 
milk into the potatoes ; add a small teacup of sugar, a pinch of 
salt, and flavor with lemon. Bake like pumpkin pie. When done 
make a meringue toji with the whites of the eggs and powdered 
sugar ; brown a moment in the oven. — Miss A. G. Beckwith. 

APPLE PIE. 

Stew the apples in as little water as possible, till they are just 
soft ; strain, sweeten and flavor to taste. One cjuince stewed with 
several a])])Ies makes a delicious sauce for pies. 



65 

The nicest apple pies are baked in deep plates, filled with slices 
of raw apple, sugar, and bits of butter. Cover with pastry, and 
have an under crust or not, as you please. 

For another variety, fill a deep plate with sliced apples ; add 
a couple . spoonfuls of water ; cover and l)ake. When done, turn 
out upon another plate, bringing crust down and sauce up. Serve 
warm, with sugar and cream. 

MOCK APPLE PIE. 

One large cracker broken into a small cup of water. Add juice 
of a lemon, and almost a cup of sugar. — Mrs. H. Sawyer. 

MARLBORO' PIE— No. i. 

• One quart of apples, ten eggs, one pound of sugar, half a 
pound of butter, a little grated lemon peel, and a little mace. Bake 
in saucers lined with rich paste. — Mrs. A. B. IV/ii/ficr. 

MARLBORO' PIE No. 2. 

One cup of stewed and sifted apple, one cup of sugar, one of 
milk, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, yolks of three eggs. 
Make the frosting of the whites of the eggs, and brown in the 
•oven. — T. 

DATE PIE— No. I. 

The yolks of three eggs and one cup of sugar beaten well 
together, one cup of stoned and chopped dates, one cup of 
cream, a small piece of butter ; flavor with nutmeg. After chop- 
ping the dates, lay them around on the bottom crust, then beat 
the sugar and eggs well together, add the cream and \)0\\x all on 
to the plate ; cut in a small piece of butter, grate a ver\- little 
nutmeg, cover and bake. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth, and use for frosting the pie. — Miss Lizzie Siaasey. 



66 

DATE PIE— No. 2. 

vStone one i)ound of molasses dates, simmer fifteen minutes in 
water enougli to t:over them, strain, add one (juart of milk and 
four well-beaten egjs. Bake with only an under crust. This will 
make two good-sized pies. — Miss Aiiiiic J. Gik. 

LEMON PIE— No. i. 

One teacup of powdered sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, one 
egg, the juice and grated rind of one lemon, one teacup of boil- 
ing water, and one tablespoonful of corn starch dissolved in cold 
water. Stir the corn starch into the boiling water, cream the butter 
and sugar and pour over them the hot mixture. When quite cool, 
add lemon and the beaten egg, grating the rind of the lemon 
and chopping the pulp. Bake without top crust. — Mrs. S. Stuart. 

LEMON PIE— No. 2. 

One lemon, one egg, one cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of 
corn starch wet in cold water, and a teacu])ful of boiling water 
poured over it to thicken. Cover a plate with paste, put in a 
layer of fresh apples sliced very thin, then pour the lemon over. 
Cover with paste and bake. — Mrs. Moses W. Putnam. 

LEMON PIE— No. 3. 

Juice of two lemons, grated rind of one, ten tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, yolks of three eggs, and two tablespoonfuls of corn starch. 



LEMON PIE— No. 4. 

( )ne cup of sugar, the yolks of two large or three small eggs ; 

save the whites for frosting. After the eggs and sugar are well 

beaten, stjueeze the juice of one lemon into it. Take a large half 

])int of milk, set on the stove, and when it is scalded, stir in one 



67 

small tablespoonful of corn starch, wet in cold milk ; add the egg 
and sugar. Bake in a deep plate, with a nice ])aste, putting an 
edge around the [)late. After it is baked, beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, put in about t>vo teaspoonfuls of sugar, and 
spread lightly over the pie, aad bro.va in the oven. — Mrs. Levcrctt 
Johnson. 

LEMON TARTS. 

The juice and grated rind of a lemon, the yolk of an egg, a 
cup of sugar ; mix all together. Upon this pour a cujj of cold 
water, into which has been stirred a dessertspoonful of corn starch. 
■Stir all in a hot sauce-pan until it becomes a clear jelly. With 
this fill the shells which have b^en already baked. Frost with the 
white of the egg, and slightly brown. — T. 

RAISIN TARTS. 

One heaping coffee-cup of stoned and chopped raisins, two 
small cups of powdered sugar, two lemons, grated rind and juice. 
Put all together in a bowl and set in the teakettle till the sugar is 
dissolved. When cool, fill the shells. — Mrs. George IV. Diincau. 

CHESS PIES. 
Take the inside of one lemon and chop fine ; one cup of chopped 
raisins, one of sugar, one egg ; mix together. Make a nice paste, 
roll thin and cut in Sfjuares, wet the edges with milk and fill with 
the above ingredients ; lap the edges and press ends with fork ; cut 
smoothly. Bake in a (juick oven. — Mrs. I. Broicn. 

bramberrip:s. 

One lemon and one cup of raisins, chopped fine; one cu]) of 
sugar, one egg, small piece of butter, filling for pastry. — Mrs. J. K. 
Collins. 



'"The proof of the pudding is in the eating." 
*— ^^-j!(- - ^ • — - 

EVE'S PUDDING. 

"If you want a good pudding, mind what you are taught; 

Take eggs six in number when bought for a groat; 

The fruit with which Eve her husband did cozen, 

Well pared and well chopped, at least half a dozen; 

Six ounces of bread, let Madge eat the crust. 

And crumble the rest as fine as the dust; 

Six ounces of currants from the stems you must sort. 

Lest you break out your teeth and spoil all the sport; 

Six ounces of sugar won't make it too sweet; 

Some salt and some nutmeg will make it complete; 

Three hours let it boil without any flutter; 

But Adam won't like it \\ithout sauce or butter." 

THANKSGIVING PLUM PUDDING. 

Tei:i ounces of baker's bread, six ounces of sugar, a quarter of a 
pound of butter, one pint of milk, eight eggs, one potmd stoned raisins, 
a quarter of a pound of currants, three-eighths of a pound of citron, 
a nutmeg and a half, half teaspoonful of soda, salt. Remove the crust 
and grate the bread. Put a layer of bread in a buttered dish, then 
butter cut in small pieces, then a layer of the fruit ; so proceed till 
within two inches of the top of the disli. Beat the sugar and eggs 



69 

thoroughly, add the milk, nutmegs, salt and soda. Pour this custard 
slowly into the dish, absorbing the bread gradually. Let it stand two 
or three hours and then bake about two hours. — Mrs. S. Phillips. 

BOILED ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound of flour, lialf pound of raisins, two and one-half pounds 
of currants, two ounces of citron, one teacupful of lirown sugar, one 
of molasses, five eggs, one-quarter of a pound of chopped suet 
moistened with milk. Add nutmeg, clove and salt. Mix with milk 
a little thicker than batter. Steam or boil five or six hours. — Mrs. 
Jas. R. Nichols. 

BAKED PLUM PUDDING. 

Upon five crackers, well buttered, and a cupful of sugar, pour a 
(juart of boiling milk and let it stand over night. In the morning 
break up the crackers, add three well-beaten eggs, salt, spice and 
raisins. Bake two or three hours. If you please, increase the eggs 
and butter. — Mrs. C. IV. Train. 

PLAIN PLUM PUDDING. 

One loaf of Graham bread soaked in one ([uart of scalded milk, 
four ounces of suet, chopped fine ; one pound of fruit, raisins, cur- 
rants, citron ; one tablespoonfiil of salt, three eggs, nutmeg. Boil five 
hours and serve with foaming" sauce. — Mrs. J. B. C. 

SUET PUDDING. . 

Three cups of flour, one of milk, one of molasses, one large cup 
of suet chopped fine, one cup of raisins, currants and citron, tea- 
spoonful of every kind of spice, a little salt, one teaspoonful of soda 
stirred into the molasses. Boil three hours constantly in ])udding 
boiler. — Miss J. F. Smiley. 



70 

YORK PUDDING. 

Three cups of flour, one of suet or butter, one of currants or 

raisins, one of molasses, one of sweet milk, one egg, one teaspoonful 

of soda, spice to taste. Steam four hours. Cold sauce preferable. — 
"Mj-s. IV. F. Evans. 

BERRY PUDDING— No. i. 

One cup of sour milk, one of molasses, one egg, flour to make a 
stiff batter, one teaspoonful of soda, scant quart of l)erries. Steam 
three hours. — Miss Carrie DiDican. 

BERRY PUDDING— No. 2. 

One quart of flour, large tablespoonful of butter rubbed in, salt, 
two well-beaten eggs, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, half as 
much soda. Mix quite soft with milk. A pint and a half of berries. 
Steam four hours. — Mrs. C. S. IJ'. 

BERRY PUDDING— No. 3. 

One pint of flour, one pint of hemes, one cup of molasses and 
milk, half and half; sour milk, if you have it; salt, and a small tea- 
spoonful of soda. Steam three hours. Serve with sauce. — Afrs. I J'. 
R. Uliitticr. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

One pint of flour, one-half cup of sugar, three tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, one-half pint of sweet milk, one egg, one teaspoonful 
of soda, two of cream of tartar. Stir well together. Steam for one 
hour. Sene with sauce. — Mrs. H. C. Gi'aves. 

DANISH FLOUR PUDDING. 

Two ounces of butter melted in a sauce-pan ; stir in smoothly three 
ounces of flour ; pour in slowly half a pint of boiled milk, stirring 
all the time over the stove, until spoon and sauce-pan are clear — it 



71 

will take about half an hour. Let it cool, then drop in, one at a 
time, the yolks of three eggs ; add the whites, beaten very light. 
Mace for flavoring. A teaspoonful of Cleveland's superior baking 
powder, the last thing. P)oil two hours. — Katriiia Peterson. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

One pint of bread cruml)s, one quart of milk, one cuj) of sugar, 

the yolks of four eggs, the grated rind of one lemon, a piece of 

butter the size of an egg. Bake like a custard. When baked, spread 

over the top slices of jelly, and cover the whole with the whites of 
the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, mixed with a cu]) of sugar and the 
juice of lemon. Brown lightly in the oven. 

BREAD PUDDING. 
Take fine bread crumbs and cover with warm milk in which a 
small piece of butter has been melted. Use one pint of crumbs to 
one pint of milk, three eggs, one cup of sugar, and whatever flavor 
you like. Bake quickly in a buttered dish. A cup of desiccated 
cocoanut is very nice in this pudding. — Mrs. E. J J'. A»ies. 

INDIAN PUDDING— No. i. 
One quart of boiling milk, one cup of Indian meal, one of 
molasses, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one teaspoonful of salt. 
Scald meal and milk well together, add the other ingredients and let 
it stand till quite cold. Pour into a buttered dish and add a pint of 
cold milk without stirring. Bake three hours. Ser\e with cream or 
milk. — Mrs. S. S. Hirnkinx. 

INDIAN PUDDING— No. 2. 
One cup of Indian meal, one cup of molasses ; mi.x, and stir into 
a quart of boiling milk, until it thickens : add a little salt, and butter 
the size of an egg. Pour into a buttered pudding-dish, and when it 
begins to boil in the oven, add a pint of cold milk. l>ake two or 
three hours in a moderate oven. — Mrs. M. K. Ty/e/-. 



72 ^ 

INDIAN PUDDING— No. 3. 

Seven tablespoonfuls of Indian meal, wet with molasses ; pour over 
this three pints of boiling milk ; when cool, add a piece of butter the 
size of an egg, then three well beaten eggs, and a little salt ; spice 
with cinnamon and ginger. Bake two and one-half hours. — Mrs. J. F. 
Davis. 

INDIAN PUDDING No. 4. 

One quart of scalded milk, one-half cup of Indian meal, one-fourth 
cup of flour. Wet flour and meal with a very little cold milk, and 
stir it into the scalded milk. When cool, add two eggs, one-half 
cup of sugar, one-fourth cup of molasses, nutmeg and salt. Rub a 
piece of butter as large as half an egg, around the pan before put- 
ting in the pudding. Sliced apples spread over the top give a nice 
flavor. Bake two hours in moderate oven. — Mrs. M. L. Stover. 

INDIAN PUDDING— No. 5. 

Pour a quart of boiling milk upon seven heaping spoonfuls of 
Indian meal, half a teaspoonful of salt, and two spoonful's of ginger 
or cinnamon. Mix well, and just before setting it in the oven, stir 
in a cup of cold water, which will produce the same effect as eggs. 
Bake three-cjuarters of an hour in a deep dish. — Mrs. J. B. C. 

TOGUS. 

Three cups of sweet milk, one of sour, three cups of Indian meal, 
one of flour, one-half cup of molasses, small teaspoonful of soda. 
Steam three or four hours. Eat with butter instead of brown bread, 
or with sugar and cream, for a pudding. — Afrs. C. R. T. 

BATTER PUDDING. 

One cup of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one (juart of milk ; stir 
milk into flour gradually ; when mixed, add five well-beaten eggs ; put 
into a two-(]uart ]:)udding-mold and steam slowly two hours. 



73 

Sauce. — Two cups of sugar, one of butter ; mix with the hand 
until creamy ; add the flavoring,, and, when ready to serve, three table- 
spoonfuls of boiling water. — Lincoln House. Swampscott. 

NOTTINGHAM PUDDING. 

One cjuart of milk, five eggs, one pint of flour, a little salt. Have 
the dish filled with apples, pared and cored. Pour the batter over 
them. Bake immediately about an hour and a half in a hot oven. 
Ser\e with sauce. — Mrs. C. \V. Train. 

SIMPLK PUDDING. 

Three crackers rolled fine, one pint of milk, one-half cup of sugar, 
yolks of two eggs, salt and nutmeg. Bake half an hour. Beat whites 
to a froth with a little sugar ; brown in the oven. Lay ])its of jelly 
on the top. Serve warm. — Mrs. Dr. S. A'. To7o/(\ 

DELMONICO PUDDING. 
Three tablespoonfuls of corn starch, one cpiart of milk, five eggs, or 
less. Mix the corn starch with a little cold milk, l)eat the yolks of 
the eggs with five tablespoonfuls of sugar, add to the corn starch, 
and stir all into the quart of milk just before it boils ; let all boil 
together until thickened, stirring carefully. Flavor and pour into a 
dish. Beat the whites of the eggs with three tablespoonfuls of sugar ; 
spread a thin layer over the pudding and drop the remainder in lit- 
tle spots upon the surface ; brown delicately in the oven. To be 
served cold. — Mrs. E. J J'. Ames. 

COLD SAGO PUDDING. 
Into a pint of boiling milk stir half a cup of sago, soaked in a 
l)int of cold milk, one-half cup of sugar, and a little salt. Boil a 
few minutes, until the sago is transparent. Take it from the fire and 
add yolks of three eggs. When cold, flavor as you ])lease, pour into 
a glass dish and cover with a frosting made of the whites of tlie eggs 
and two tablesi)oonfiils of sugar. 



74 

(;reen corn fuddinc;. 

Draw a sharp knife lengthwise through each row of corn, and push 
out the pulp with the back of the knife blade. To one pint of the 
corn add one (luart of milk, three eggs, a little suet or butter, sugar 
to taste. Stir it occasionally while baking, till it l)egins to thicken, 
and bake about two hours. — Airs. M. IF. G. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

One quart of scalded milk, one and one-half squares of grated 
chocolate. Wet with cold milk, and stir into the scalded milk. 
When the chocolate is dissolved, pour into a pudding-dish ; add 
the yolks of six eggs, one whole egg, well-beaten, and six table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Bake in a slow oven about three-quarters of 
an hour. It must not whey. Beat whites to a stiff froth, add 
sugar to taste, spread it over, and slightly brown. — Mrs. A. H. 
Sirfliii:;, Rochester, N. Y. 

ORANGE PUDDING— No. i. 

Six oranges cut fine ; strew over them a cup of sugar and a 
cup of desiccated cocoanut. Beat the yolks of six eggs with four 
spoonfuls of com starch, and stir into a (juart of boiling milk. 
When it thickens, pour this over the oranges. PJeat the whites of 
the eggs with two spoonfuls of sugar, and drop in spots upon the 
surface. Brown in the oven. To be eaten cold. — Afrs. E. II . 
Ames. 

ORANGE PUDDING— No. 2. 

One (]uart of milk, four eggs, one cup of sugar, three table- 
spoonfuls of corn starch, four large oranges. Heat the milk ; beat 
the yolks of the eggs, sugar • and corn starch together ; stir into 
the milk while boiling, and cook until it l)egins to thicken. Slice 
the oranges, sprinkle over them a little sugar, and ]J0ur the cus- 
tard over them. When cool, frost with the whites of the eggs. 



75 

Strawberries or peaches may be used instead of oranges. — Miss 
Ella Moore. 

FIG PUDDING. 

One-half pound of bread crumbs, onedialf pound of figs, six 
ounces of brown sugar, two eggs, a httle nutmeg, one-cjuarter pound 
of suet, a little milk, two ounces of flour ; figs and suet chopped 
very fine and well mixed with the bread crumbs, flour, sugar and 
nutmeg. Add the eggs, well beaten, and the milk. Press the 
whole into a buttered mold, tie over it a thick cloth, and steam 
four hours. Serve with or without sauce. — Mrs. Win. Jcffers. 

PEACH PUDDING. 

Slice one dozen peach;s into a small pudding-dish, cover them 
with sugar and the following mixture : one egg, two-thirds of a 
cup of sugar, one-third of a cup of butter, one-half of a cup of 
milk, one and one-half cup of flour, one teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar, one-half teaspoonfiil of soda. Bake one hour, and serve 
with vanilla sauce. A])i)les may be used instead of peaches. — Mrs. 
F. A. Broton. 

LEMON MERINGUE PUDDING. 

One pint of milk, one-half pint of bread crumbs, yolks of two 
eggs, one-third of a cup of sugar, one lemon. After it is baked, 
atid the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth with two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar and a little of the lemon juice. Brown slightly 
in the oven. — Mrs. S. F. Smith, Newton Centre. 

GINGER PUDDING. 

Two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, three eggs, butter the 
size of two eggs, one cuj) of milk, two tablespoonfifls of ginger, 
one teaspoonfifl of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda. 
Bake half or diree-(|uarters of an hour and eat with sweet sauce. — 
Mrs. J. H. Diiiicaii. 



76 

TAPIOCA FRUIT PUDDING. 

One cup of tapioca in enough water to cover it. Boil, and as 
it thickens, add more water. When cooked, let it cool a little ; 
sugar to taste. If berries are used, sweeten quite sweet, then mix 
with the tai)ioca and serve cold with cream and sugar. Peaches 
are especially delicious. — Mrs. H. C. Graves. 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Take six large, tart apples, pare, quarter and core. Put in a 
dish aud pour over them a cupful of tapioca soaked over night 
in a pint and a half of water, a cupful of sugar ; flavor to taste. 
Bake about an hour, or steam. Serve with a rich sauce, or 
cream and sugar. — Mrs. Martha C. Hotv. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

One pint of flour, teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a tea- 
spoonful of soda, a little butter, mixed soft with milk. Pare and 
core six nice, large apples. Wrap each apple in a piece of crust. 
Bake more slowly than biscuit. Serve with sweet sauce. 

FRUIT ROLL-UP 

A rich cream of tartar biscuit made of a pint of flour ; roll in 
an oblong form, spread with jelly, chopped apples, or any kind of 
berries ; roll up ; steam an hour. Serve with sweet sauce. 

RHUBARB DUMPLINGS. 

Crust like the last rule. Stir in half a pint of rhubarb cut in 
small pieces. Steam an hour and a half. Serve with sweet sauce. 
Very nice with cranberries instead of rhubarb. — Mrs. C. R. Evans. 

CHERRY PUDDING. 

Put three pints of cherries into a deep dish and cover with 
a crust made of rich biscuit dough. Set on the to]) of the stove 



77 

and cover with a larger pudding-dish. Let it cook thirty-five 
minutes. This is ecjually good made with apples. Serve with hot 
or cold sauce. — Mrs. E. G. Wood. 

SPANISH CHARLOTTE. 

Place crumbs of stale bread or roUetl crackers on the bottom 
of a pudding-dish, and put a layer of any kind of fruit or jelly 
over them. Continue alternately till the dish is nearly full, making 
the crumbs form the top, Pour a custard over it, and bake. 
Serve with sauce. — Mrs. E. G. Wood. 

LEMON RICE PUDDING. 

One cup of l)oiled rice, one pint of milk, grated rind of a 
lemon, butter the size of an egg, yolks of three eggs. Bake 
twenty minutes. Beat the whites of the eggs with half a pound 
of sugar, add the juice of the lemon, spread over the top of the 
]3udding and brown lightly. — Mrs. M. Steele. 

PLAIN RICE PUDDING. 

Put a large half-cup of uncooked rice into a cjuart of milk, and 
add two-thirds of a cup of sugar, a little salt and butter. Bake 
about two hours. Frost if you please. — T. 

PUFF PUDDING. 

Three eggs, nine tablespoonfuls of flour, one pint of milk and 
a little salt. Pour the milk, scalding hot, on to the flour, stirring 
carefully to prevent any lumps. When cool, add the eggs, well 
beaten. Bake in a quick oven twenty or thirty minutes. Serve 
hot. with liquid sauce. — Mrs. C. C. Tyler, Worcester. 

CORN STARCH H.\STY PUDDING. 

One ([uart of milk, heated to scalding in a farina kettle. Wet 
with a little cold milk, four tablespoonfuls of corn starch and a 



78 

teaspoonful of salt. Stir into the milk and let it boil ten minutes. 
Add a good lump of butter, antl let the pudding stand without 
boiling in hot water for three minutes before serving. 

SAUCE. 

Two eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of boiling milk. 
Flavor to taste. Beat the yolks and sugar together very light : 
])our into the boiling milk. Let it set in very hot, but not boil- 
ing water, stirring occasionally until just before serving, when beat 
in lightly the frothed whites. Or, one may serve with a sauce of 
sugar and water boiled together and a strong flavoring of vanilla. — 
Mrs. E. \V. Allies. 

GIPSY PUDDING. 

Cut stale cake into thin slices, spread them with jelly or pre- 
serves. Place them in a deep glass dish. Pour over a hot, soft 
custard. Cool before serving. Or, cover the cake with whipped 
cream. 

HASTY PUDDINCx. 

Mix smooth a cupful of Indian meal and a teaspoonful of salt, 
in a little cold water. Stir it into a quart of boiling water. 
Continvie to l)oil for half an hour, stirring often. If you wish to 
fry it, pour it hot into a pan which has been wet with cold 
water. When col;' cut into slices, flour each side, and fry cris]) 
and brown. 

— -^-^l^-i-^ — 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

The traditional lla\oring for pudding sauce is, of course, wine, hvX many 
of those who \\ill use this boolc, behave with the Apostle Paul,- that "it is 
good neither to drink wine nor anything whereby a brother stumbleth or is 
made weak." Of course the taste of the family must be consulted in pro- 
viding a substitute. X'anilla, rose-water, lemon, vinegar, nutmeg and many 
other flavors are good. 



79 

No. 1. 
One cuj) of powdered sugar, one-third of o (-u]) of butter beaten 
to a cream, one egg beaten to a froth, one cup of boiHng water. 
Add the juice of a lemon, and any other flavoring you like. — 
Mis. J. F. Davis. 

No. 2. 

One egg, well beaten, and a scant cup of sugar. Beat them 
well together, pour over two-thirds of a cup of boiling milk. Fla- 
lor as you please. — Mrs. J. A. HaJe. 

No. 3. 

One cup of water, one of sugar, (brown is best,) three tea- 
spoonfuls of flour. Boil the sugar and water ; wet the flour with 
water or milk, and stir till perfectly smooth ; add it to the boil- 
ing mi.xture. Let this boil until clear, then add butter and any 
flavoring you please — a little vinegar is good. It must not be 
boiled after the butter is added. — Mrs. L. IVJiitticr. 

No. 4. 

Beat the white of an egg very light, as for frosting ; squeeze 
into it the juice of a lemon ; add sugar to make it sufficiently 
sweet. Be careful to observe this order of mixing.— JZ/Vj' R. IF. 
Duncan. 

No. 5. 

Cream one-half cup of butter, until very light, add and beat 
with it one heaping cup of sugar. Just before serving add three 
or four tablespoonfuls of boiling milk, stirring l)riskly. — Mrs. M. 
A. S. 

No. 6. — Hard. 

One cup of sugar, one-fourth cup of butter rubbed to a cream. 
Add lemon juice and grated nutmeg. — Mrs. J. F. Davis. 



8o 



No. 



-Hard. 



One-half cup of butter, one cup of powdered sugar, the grated 
rind and juice of half a lemon, ("ream the butter thoroughly, and 
add the sugar gradually, beating hard and fast until it is very 
light. Add the lemon, and beat three minutes more. To be 
served piled, as it falls from the spoon — not smoothed. — Miss Jen- 
nie Raymond. 





"A joint of mutton, and any pretty little tiny 
kickshaw, tell William cook." 

Shakspeke. 



--)(^- 



ICE CREAM— No. i. 

Take a pint of milk, and when near the boihng point thicken 
it by stirring in the whites of two well-beaten eggs. Sweeten and 
flavor to taste. When cool, add a pint of cream. Freeze. — Mrs. 
J. R. Nichols. 

ICE CREAM— No. 2. 

One gallon of milk, sixteen eggs, one quart of cream, one-half 
lK)und of sugar to each tiuart, and flavor as you like. Put one- 
half of the milk in a ]xail and set it in a kettle of boiling water. 
Beat the eggs thoroughly, add the sugar, and when the milk is 
boiling hot, stir in the eggs and sugar, and stir continualh until 
about the consistency of cream ; then pour into a dish and add 
the cold milk and cream. Flavor when cold. — Mrs. Nc/c/i A. 
C/ldSt. 



82 

rcK crp:am— No. 3. 

One generous pint of milk, one cupful of sugar, half a small 
cupful of flour, two eggs. Let the milk come to boil. Beat the 
eggs, sugar and flour together and stir into the l)oiling milk. Boil 
twenty minutes, stirring often. Scrape one square of Baker's choco- 
late, and add to it two tablespoonfiils of sugar and one of boil- 
ing water. Stir this over the fire until smooth and glossy, and 
add it to the boiling mixture. Set it away to cool, stirring occa- 
sionally. When cold, add one teacupful of sugar and one quart 
of cream, and freeze. A teaspoqnful of vanilla improves it.^ Afi'ss 
Jennie Raymond. 

BAVARIAN CREAM. 

^Vhip a jnnt of cream to a stiff froth. Boil another pint of 
cream or milk, with two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and flavor with 
vanilla, chocolate, strawberry or almond. When taken from the 
fire, add half a box of gelatine which has been standing for half 
an hour in cold water, near the stove. When slightly cool, stir 
in the yolks of four eggs, well beaten. When it has become 
(juite cold and begins to thicken, stir for a few minutes until it 
is entirely smooth, then add the whipped cream lightly, until it is 
well mixed. Pour it into molds and place upon ice. — Mrs. J. A. 
Hale. 

QUEEN'S CREAM. 

One-half box of gelatine dissolved in a large cup of milk 
fifteen minutes, one quart of cream or milk, nine eggs, one large 
cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of vanilla. Heat croam or milk 
to almost boiling point, add gelatine, stir until dissolved, then add 
yolks of eggs and sugar, which must be well beaten together. 
Remove from the fire as soon as the custard thickens, and gradu- 
ally stir in the whites — which must l)e beaten until you can turn 
the dish ujjside down. Pour into molds. — Lizzie Ryan. 



83 

PINK CREAM. 

Three gills of raspberry syrup mixed with a (juarter of a poiintl 
of powdered sugar and one pint of thick cream. \\'hisk until very 
light, and serve in whip glasses. — Miss A. G. Bcckioith, Providence. 

ROCK CREAM. 

Boil one teacupful of rice in milk until very soft, sweeten with 
powdered sugar, pile on a dish, and when cold lay over it lumps 
of jelly, or preserved fruit of any kind. Beat whites of three eggs to 
a stiff froth, add a little sugar, flavor as you please, and pour 
over the rice. — Mrs. M. L. Stover. 

ORANGE FLOATS. 

One pint of cold water, one cup of granulated sugar, two 
lemons, (juice and pulp) ; let sugar and water come to boil, add 
lemon juice. Cut two oranges in slices, lay them in the bottom" 
of a dish. Pour the lemon, when cool, over the oranges. Whites 
of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth for the top. — S. C. G. 

CREAMED BANANAS. 

Slice the bananas and strew them with sugar. Whip a .cupful 
of cream \ery light. Whip the white of an egg to a stiff froth. 
Put them together, with a tablespoonful of sugar, and pour over 
the bananas. Peaches may be served in the same way. — Mrs. F. 
A. Bnnvu. 

VELVET CREAM. 

Put one-half box of gelatine in one cjuart of cold milk, on the 
stove. When boiling, stir in yolks of three eggs, well beaten with 
six tablesi)Oonfuls of sugar. Stir till it thickens to a custard, flavor, 
and when cold add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 
Pour into molds. — Mrs. E. \V. Ames. 



84 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Cover three tablespoonfuls of tapioca with cokl' water, and let it 
stand three hours, or over night. Stir it into a quart of boihng 
milk ; add the yolks of three eggs, two-thirds of a cup of sugar, 
sctlt, and stir until it becomes a custard. Pour into a pudding- 
dish, cover with a frosting made of the whites of the eggs, brown 
in the oven. — Mrs. PJiineas How. 

BROWN CUSTARD. 

Into a tin dish put two tablespoonfuls of sugar, let it slowh' 
dissolve, then burn it, and pour upon it a pint of boiling milk, 
\-ery slowly, as it will foam. Pour this mixture upon the eggs and 
sugar beaten together, (two yolks and white of one, with two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar.) Return it to the stove and let it come to 
boil. Just before serving, beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff 
froth and place on the top. — Mrs. T. G. Appletoii. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARDS. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, (yolks and whites separate,) one- 
half cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, one 
teaspoonful of vanilla. Scald the milk and dissolve the chocolate 
in it. Put in the beaten yolks and sugar. Stir a minute before 
flavoring. Pour into the cups, which should be set in a pan of 
l)oiling water. Bake slowly about twenty minutes. When cool, 
place upon the top the beaten whites with powdered sugar. — Mrs. 
J. D. Newcomb. 

SNOW PUDDINC;— No. i. 

Three tablespoonfuls of corn starch dissolved in a little cold 
water. Pour one pint of boiling water upon it ; atld salt, dessert- 
spoonful of sugar, juice of half a lemon, and the whites of three 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; stir well ; set in a basin of boiling 
water and scald ten minutes. Pour into cups and set away to 



85 

form. Make a custard for it of a large half-pint of milk, scalded, 
with yolks of the eggs, sugar and salt. When ready to serve, 
pour the cui:>s of snow pudding on to a platter ; take out a 
spoonful from each and fill the cavity with jelly. Pour around it 
the custard. — Mrs. Dr. Totvle. 

SNOW PUDDING— No. 2. 

Upon half a box of gelatine pour half a pint of cold water ; 
let it stand a while, and then add one-half pint of boiling water. 
When cool, strain, and add the juice of two lemons, two cups of 
sugar, and whites of three eggs. Beat all together to a stiff froth, 
and pour into a mold. When ready to serve, pour o\er it a 
soft custard made with a pint of milk, the yolks of the eggs, and 
one more egg. — Miss S. P. Whitticr. 

CHARLOTFE RUSSE— No. i. 

Take one pint of cream, one tablespoonful of vanilla, one cup 
of sugar, and beat them to a froth. Add a quarter of a box of 
gelatine dissolved in as little water as possible — first in cold, then 
in hot. Add the whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth, antl 
stir till it is well mixed. Pour the mixture into a dish lined with 
slices of sponge cake, and set it on the ice. Turn it out upon 
a platter and cover the top with another slice of sponge cake, 
when ready for the table. — Mrs. J. A. Hale. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE— No. 2. 

One-half box of gelatine, soaked in a little cold water; one cup of 
milk. While boiling, add the gelatine and one cup of sugar. \Vhen 
cool, add one pint of cream, beaten light. Flavor with almond or 
vanilla. Line the dish with sponge cake cut in strijjs. fill with the 
mixture and set away to cool. — Miss J. F. Sinilcx. 



86 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE— No. 3. 

One pint of cream beaten stiff, half a box of gelatine dissolved in 
half a pint of milk, the whites of two eggs well beaten, two cups of sugar, 
two teaspoonfuls of vanilla. First beat the cream. When stiff, pour 
on gelatine, eggs and sugar, quickly ; stir well together. Have the 
dish lined with sponge cake, and pour in the mixture. Keep the 
cream as cool as possible while beating. Make a jelly of the other 
half box of gelatine ; flavor as you please. When it is formed, gar- 
nish with it the top of the cream. — Miss A. B. , Train, Newton 

Centre. 

TAPIOCA ICE. 

One cup of tapioca soaked over night. In the morning put it on 
the stove, and when it begins to boil put in a large cup of sugar, 
and boil until it is clear. Clear a good-sized pineapple free from all 
specks and chop it fine. Pour the tapioca boiling hot over the pine- 
apple, and stir together. The hot tapioca will sufficiently soften the 
pineapple. Pour into moulds, and when cold eat with cream and 
sugar. Boil the tapioca in an earthen vessel to make it white. — Miss 
Mary E. Webster, Bradford. 

COFFEE GELATINE. 
One box of gelatine soaked two hours in one pint of cold water, 
two-thirds of a custard-cup of coffee, steamed in one pint of water, 
as for breakfast ; one pint of sugar. Strain the coffee on the gelatine ; 
add the sugar, with one pint and a half of boiling water. Place on 
the stove and let boil up once. Shape in moulds and set away to 
cool. Sene with cream and sugar. — Mrs. S. D. Maynard. 

APPLE SNOW. 
Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, add gradually a cup- 
ful of steamed apples and one of sugar. Make a boiled custard of 
the yolks of the eggs, one whole one, and a pint of milk. Ser\-e 
with the apple. — Mrs. H. Sauyer. 



87 

QUINCE SA(;(). 

To one (juart of water add six taljlespoonfuls of sago. After soak- 
ing two hours, boil to a jelly, add a tumbler of cjuince jelly, put into 
a mould, and ser\e cold with cream. — Miss A. G. Bcchc'ith. Pro\i- 
dence. 

GELATINE BLANC MANGE. 

To one quart of milk, one-cjuarter of a l)Ox of gelatine. Soak the 
gelatine in a little of the cold milk, and when the rest of the milk 
is about boiling, add the gelatine with a little salt. Sticks of cinna- 
mon are good boiled in the milk. One egg will improve it. — Mrs. 
S. F. Smith, Newton Centre. 

APPLE SOUFFLE. 

Bake four sour apples ; sweeten the pulp and let it cool. Beat the 
white of one egg to a stiff froth, add the apple and beat together 
until very light. — Miss A. E.Jo/uison, Bradford. 

MOONSHINE. 

Beat the whites of six eggs to a siff froth. Add gradually six table- 
spoonfuls of pulverized sugar. Beat in a heaping tablespoonful of 
canned peaches or a cup of jelly. In serving pour in each saucer 
some cream, sweetened and flavored with vanilla, and on the cream 
place a portion of moonshine. — Mrs. Dr. Cheney. 

DUTCH DANDY. 

One quart of milk, three even tablespoonfuls each of flour and 
sugar, one dessertspoonful of vanilla, three eggs, a little salt. Put all 
but a small teacup of the milk in a pail, placed in scalding water. 
Smooth the flour in the teacupful of milk, and stir it carefully into 
the scalding milk, until well cooked ; beat the sugar and vanilla with 
the yolks of the eggs and stir in, giving it just a scald. Pour into 
the dish for the table. Whip the whites of the eggs stiff, sweeten. 



88 

flavor with vanilla, and 'Cover the dish with this frosting. ("nt into 
scjuares or diamonds with a knife, and i)lac-e in the hot oven just long 
enough to brown. Cool and put upon ice. — Afrs. I I'm. S. Karr. 
Hartford. 

STRAWBERRY CUSTARD. 

Make a nice boiled custard of a (juart of milk and the yolks of 
five eggs properly sweetened. Take a gill of sugar and a pint of ripe 
strawberries ; crush them together and pass through a fine strainer. 
Take the whites of four of the eggs, and while beating them to a 
stiff froth add a gill of sugar, a little at a time. To the sugar and 
egg add the sweetened strawberry juice, beating all the while to keep 
it stiff. This makes a beautiful pink float, which is to be placed on 
top of the custard. 





"A few strong instincts and a few plain rules." — Woruswouth. 

— ^-^K-— T- 

In all cake-making, the first thing is ti) cream the butter and add the sugar, 
heating them well together. In most varieties it is best to separate the whites 
from the yolks of the eggs, and beat them to a very stiff froth. If the eggs 
are cold, this is very ([uickly accomplished; therefore keep them in a bath 
of cold \Aater the night before using. 

Cream of tartar and soda should be sifted together in the flour, and stirred 
in lightly just before the cake goes to the oven. If fruit is used, it should 
be added last of all. 

The heat of the oven should be regular and even, and for thin cakes 
rather quick. In many ovens it is well to put a cold slide nn the grate 
over the cake until it is risen, but in removing it do not admit any more 
air into the oven than is necessary. If it is desirable to move the cake, do 
it very gently, lest it fall. 

When it is done it will settle a little away from the sides of the pan, 
or it may be tried with a clean broom straw. If it comes out dry. it is 
l)aked sufficiently. 

-"-^^-^ — s— ^ 



WEDDING CAKK, 1817. 

'Twelve pounds of flour, twelve pounds of sugar, twelve pounds of 
currants, nine pounds of butter, five dozen eggs, two pounds of 
citron, one ounce each of cloves, cinnamon, mace, ginger, lemon peel, 
two ounces of nutmegs, one ])int of brandy. 



go 

Frosting for the same : Four pounds of loaf sugar, the whites of 
ten eggs, half a pound of starch, one ounce of gum-arabic, lemon- 
juice and rose-water to flavor. This ([uantity will make three large 
loaves. — Miss Caroline Duncan. 

WEDDING CAKE. 

I'wo pounds butter, two pounds sugar, two pounds eleven ounces 
flour, six pounds currants, one and one-half pound raisins, one and 
one half pound citron, fourteen eggs, one-half ounce each of clove, 
cinnamon, nutmeg, mace, one and one-third teaspoonful of soda. 
Use two and one-half tumblers mixing, consisting of one-fourth tum- 
bler of milk, one-fourth tumbler of molasses, and two tumblers of 
wine and brandy, or all wine. Two loaves. — Mrs. M. Stcek. 

BRIDE'S CAKE— No. i. 

One pound of butter, one and one-half pound of sugar, one and 
one-half pound of flour, one pint of whites of eggs, one j)ound of 
almonds — blanch and chop them \ery fine. — Mrs. Sarah L. Holt. 

BRIDE'S CAKE— No. 2. 

(3ne-half cu[) of butter, one-half cup of corn starch, one-half cuj) 
of milk, one and one-half cup of sugar, one and three-fourths cup of 
flour, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, 
flavor to taste. — Mrs. J. J'. Smiley. 

POUND CAKE. 

One-half pound of butter, fourteen ounces of sugar, fifteen ounces 
of flour, six eggs, one- half tumbler of milk, two-thirds teaspoonful of 
soda. Beat the butter and sugar to a froth, add the eggs, well-beaten, 
then tlie milk with the soda dissolved in it, and last the flour well 
stirred in. This makes two sheets. — Mrs. Sarali L. Holt. 



91 
ROYAL FRUIT CAKE. 

Five cups of flour, five eggs, one and one-half cup of sugar, one 
and one-half cup of butter, one cuj) of molasses, small teaspoonful of 
soda, half a cup of milk, two pounds of chopped raisins, two of cur- 
rants, half a pound of citron, one tablesi>oonful of cassia, one nutmeg, 
two teaspoonfiils of allspice and cloves. Less fruit and spice will he 
preferred by some. Bake slowly two hours. Cake made from this 
rule will be nicer at the end of a year than when first made. — Mrs. 
J. D. Ncwconib. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Three-fourths of a pound of sugar, three-fourths of a pound of 
butter, one pound of flour, two pounds of currants, one-half of a 
pound each of citron and raisins, six eggs, spice to taste, half cup of 
molasses, half teaspoonful of soda. — Mrs. F. A. Broion. 

SPICE CAKE. 

One cup of butter, half cup of sugar, half cup of molasses, two 

cups of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, half cup of sour milk, two 

eggs, one teaspoonful of every kind of spice, a cup of stoned and 
chopped raisins. — Mrs. Win. Sniih'v. 

RAISED CAKE— No. i. 

One cu]) of butter, two of sugar, one egg, half a pint of milk, one 
gill of yeast, five cups of flour. Raisins and spice to taste. — Mrs. 
Rebecca Hale. 

RAISE!) CAKE— No. 2. 

To a teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in hot water, add one-third of 
a cup of milk, and work with tlie hands into two cujw of very light 
dough. Two eggs, two cups of sugar, large half-cup of butter, two 
cups of flour. s])ice and raisins. IJake in a dee]) [)an. — Mrs. C. 11 '. 
Train. 



92 

RAISED CAKE— N(X 3. 

One pound of butter, two of sugar, three of flour, one of chopped 
raisins, one of currants, cup of yeast, teaspoonful of soda. Spice 
highly. Mix with milk. Raise until very light. Bake in moderate 
oven. This quantity makes two loaves. — Mrs. J. C. Green. 

SPONGE CAKE— No. i. 

Seven eggs, weight of six in sugar, weight of three in flour, salt, 
rind and juice of a lemon, a pinch of soda. The last thing, stir in 
the flour as lightly as possible. Bake in a sponge cake pan.— J//-.*-. 
F. M. Sabine, Bangor. 

SPONGE CAKE— No. 2. 

One and one-fourth cup of sugar, three eggs, two cups of flour, 
one teaspoonful soda, two of cream of tartar, one-half cup of water 
added the last thing. Whites and yolks of the eggs beaten separately. 
Soda and cream of tartar to l)e sifted two or three times in the 
flour. — Mrs. H. C. Graves. 

SPONGE CAKE— No. 3. 

Five eggs, one cup of sugar, one of flour, one teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar, (or better, the juice of a lemon,) half-teaspoonful of soda. — 
M7-S. Martha A. WJiiftier. 

SPONGE CAKE— No. 4. 

Six eggs, heat two minutes ; three cups of sugar, beat five minutes ; 
two cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, beat two minutes ; 
one cup of cold water, one teaspoonful soda, beat one , minute ; 
grated rind and juice of half a lemon, little salt, two more cups of 
flour, beat one minute. Observe the time exactly. Bake twenty 
minutes in a quick oven. — Mrs. Jonatlian Kimball. 

SPONGE CAKE— No. 5. 
One coffee-cup of sugar, six eggs broken into the sugar and beaten 



93 

twenty minutes, then stir in lightly one coffee-cup of flour. Bake 
three-fourths of an hour. — Mrs. L. \V. Johnson. 

SPONGE CAKE— No. 6. 

Twelve eggs, the weight of ten in sugar, and of six in flour, juice 
and rind. of one lemon. Beat the yolks well, add sugar and lemon, 
whites beaten to a stiff froth, and flour. — Anne Stoddard, Provi- 
dence. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Beat the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth, add a heaping tumbler 
of sugar and beat again about five minutes, (the sugar should be 
granulated and pulverized in equal parts,) a little salt. Stir in an 
even tumbler of flour — if Haxall is used, it should be a little scant. 
Pastly, add the juice of half a lemon. Bake in a deep round tin. 
Frost if you like. — Mrs /. B. Tnvkshiiry, Bradford. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

Beat the whites of eleven eggs to a stiff froth ; take an even cup 
of unsifted flour and sift it five times, to make it very light ; add a 
cup of powdered sugar, and sift once with the flour, then add a 
half-teaspoon of cream of tartar and sift with the sugar and flour : 
pour in the eggs, and beat well together ; add one teaspoonful of 
lemon or vanilla. Pour in angel-cake-pan and bake thirty minutes 
in a moderate oven. Do not butter the j^an. Lay a cloth on your 
table, turn the pan upside down on it, when the cake is baked, and 
it will steam and fi\ll u])on the cloth in a itw minutes. — Mrs. II'. R. 
IVhittier. 

NUT CAKE— No. i. 

One cup of sugar, half cup of butter, half cup of milk, two cups 
of flour, teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful (jf soda, 
two eggs, and one cu]) of nuts. — Mi$s A. Hobhs. 



94 

NUT CAKE— No. 2. 

One cnip sugar, one-half cuj) butter, one-half cup milk, two cups 
flour, two eggs, one coffee-cup chopped raisins, one of chopped " 
English walnuts, teaspoonful cream of tartar, half teaspoonful soda. 
Beat butter to a cream, add sugar gradually, and when light, the 
eggs, well beaten, then the milk, then the flour, in which soda and 
crea,m of tartar have been mixed. Mix quickly ; add raisins and nuts. 
Bake in a deep pan, in a moderate oven. — Mrs. M. L. Stover. 

ENGLISH WALNUT CAKE. 

One and one-half cup of sugar, half-cup of butter, two-thirds cup 
of milk, four eggs, (leaving out the whites of two for frosting,) two 
cups of flour, two teaspoons of cream of tartar, and one of soda, one 
])ound of walnuts — leaving out twelve whole ones for top of cake. 
Break up the remainder and put in the cake. — Mrs. Dr. Cheney. 

DOLLY VARDEN CAKE— No. i. 

Four eggs, yolks and whites beaten se])arately ; two and one-half 
cups of sugar, one of butter, one of milk, four of flour, one-half tea- 
spoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Divide the 
mixture into two i)arts, and to one part add one tablespoonful of 
molasses, one teaspoonful each of all kinds of spice, citron, currants, 
and raisins. Bake in loaves, first a layer of the light, then a layer 
of the dark.— J/m A. C. Moulton. 

DOLLY VARDEN CAKE— No. 2. 

Two cups of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of butter, two eggs, one 
cu]) of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half as much 
soda, flavor with lemon. Bake two-thirds the above in two pans. To 
the remainder add one tablespoonful of molasses, one cup of chopped 
raisins, one-half cu}) of currants, citron chopped fine, one teaspoonful 
of all kinds of spice. When baked. ])ut the cakes together with 
jelly.— J/;-.f. W. F. Ei^aiis. 



95 
UNION CAKE— No. i. 

( )ne cup of butter, two of sugar, one of milk, three of flour, one- 
half cup of corn starch, four eggs, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tar- 
tar, one of soda, essence of lemon. Beat the whites and yolks of the 
eggs separately. — Mrs. Helen A. Chase: 

UNION CAKE— No. 2. 

Four eggs, one cup of butter, two of sugar, one of sweet milk, 
three of flour, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of soda dissolved in the milk. Divide this mixture into three parts, 
and bake two parts in pans of ecjual size. To the remainder add 
one tablespoonful of molasses, one cup of stoned and chopped raisins, 
one cup of currants, one-quarter pound of sliced citron, one tea- 
spoonful each of clove and allspice, a little mace and nutmeg, and 
one spoonful of flour. Bake in same size of pan as the others. Put 
the sheets together while warm, with jellv. — Mrs. J. I'.Sini/ex. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE— No. i. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, five eggs, leaving out the whites 
of two ; one cup of milk, half a teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar, three and a half cups of flour. 

For the frosting, add tf) the whites of two eggs one and a half cup 
of sugar, (scant,) two teaspoonfuls of vanilla, and seven tal)lespoon- 
fuls of grated chocolate. — Miss M. F. Stuart. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE— No. 2. 

One-half cup of milk, two and three-fourths cups of flour, one and 
one-half cup of sugar, one large cup of butter, one teaspoonful of 
vanilla, one of cream of tartar, half teaspoonful of soda, two and one- 
fourth scpiares of Baker's chocolate. Rub butter and sugar to a cream, 
then add four beaten eggs, saving two of the whites for frosting ; next 
the chocolate, melted, and other ingredients. 



96 

For the frosting, use whites of two eggs, one and one-half cup of 
pulverized sugar. Mix well together, set on the fire, stir until it 
begins to simmer ; take off, and beat until thick. — Mrs. Amos 
Davis. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE— No. 3. 

Half a cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three of flour, three 
eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half teaspoonful of scjda. 
Bake in Washington pie tins. 

FILLING. 

One cu}) of gi-ated chocolate, one of water, one of sugar. Cook 
till it thickens. Put it between the layers and frost the top with 
chocolate frosting. — Mrs. R. H. Aver. 

CREAM CAKES. 

Put half a pint of water and half a cup of butter on the 
stove, and when it boils stir in quickly two cups of dry flour. 
Then take from the stove, and when it is cool, stir in four eggs 
and a pinch of dry soda. Drop on buttered tins and bake in a 
quick oven. When cool, cut open and put in cream. 

CREA.M. 

Stir into a pint of boiling milk, one egg, a cup of sugar and three- 
fourths of a cup of flour well beaten together. — Mrs. S. Stuart. 

ESTHETIC CAKE. 

One half cup of butter, two of flour, one of sugar, one half 
cup of milk, whites of two eggs, one half teaspoonful of soda and 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, flavor to taste. Make frosting 
from the yolks of the eggs. — Mrs. Dr. Win. Sellers. 

WATERMELON CAKE. 

Four egg>s, yolks and whites beaten separately; two cups of 
sugar, one of milk, one of l)utter, one teaspoon of cream of tar- 
tar, half a teaspoon of soda, three and a half cu]is of flour — ])os- 



97 

sibly a little more, ^^'hen well mixed, take out half and add to 
it a little red sugar, to color it, and a cupful of seedless raisins, 
to represent melon seeds. Put the white outside and the red 
in the centre. IVo ])ersons can fill the pan better than one. — 
Mrs. C. N. Rhodes. 

ORANGK CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, one of milk, three and a 
half of flour, five eggs — leaving out the whites of three, one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar, half teaspoonful of soda, and grated 
peel of two oranges. Bake in jelly-cake pans. For the frosting, beat 
the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, add half a pound of powdered 
sugar and the juice of the oranges. When the cake is cool, 
spread each one with the frosting, laying one upon the other. — 
Miss J. F. Smiley. 

GOLD CAKK. 

One-half cup of butter, one of sugar, two of flour, yolks of 
four eggs, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one scant teaspoonful of 
<ream of tartar. F'la\or with vanilla or nutmeg. 

SILVER CAKE. 

The same as last rule, using the whites instead of the yolks of 
the eggs, and flavoring with almond. In both, the eggs should be 
added the last thing. — Mrs. A. L. Geori:;^. 

BUTTER SPONGE CAKE. 

Three eggs, one cu]) of sugar, one of flour, three tablespoonfuls 
of milk and three of melted butter, lemon, one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, half teaspoonful of soda. — Mrs. Helen A. Chase. 

DATE CAKE. 

One cuj) of butter, two of sugar, four of flour, twp-thirds of a 
cup of milk, foin- eggs, one and one-half potmd of common dates. 



98 

stoned but not chopped ; two teaspoont'uls of cream of tartar and 
one of soda. Makes two loaves. — Airs. Walter N. Dole, Lynn. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Bake any kind of nice plain cake in jelly-cake tins. Sponge 
cake is very good. Take one cup of sweet cream, one tablespoon 
of sugar and a little lemon or vanilla. Beat to a stiff froth. 
just before it is ready to change to butter, spread it between the 
cakes. — Mrs. Wm. Fitz, Providence, R. I. 

JOHNSON CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, one of milk, three and a 
half of flour, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, half a teaspoon- 
ful of soda, five eggs — leaving out the whites qf two. Frost with 
the whites of the two eggs and a half cup of •iwgQ.r.— Mrs. Dr. 
Crowell. 

ALMOND MACARONL 

One half pound of blanched almonds, pounded with one tea- 
spoonful of essence of lemon till a smooth paste. Add an equal 
(juantity of sifted white powdered sugar and the beaten white of 
an egg. Work well together with a spoon. Dip the hands in 
cold water and mould them the size of a nutmeg. Put them on 
white paper, two inches apart, and let them cook in a cool oven 
about three-ciuarters of an hour. — Miss A. B. Train. 

COCO AN UT PIE. 

Yolks of six eggs, two cups of sugar, one of milk, large half 
cup of butter, three cups of flour, one teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar, half teaspoonful of soda. Bake in four round pans. 

MIDDLE. 

Whites of four eggs, four tablespoonfuls of desiccated cocoanut. 
sugar. Spread this between two cakes. 



99 

FROSTINC;. 

Whites of two eggs and sugar for a soft frosting, then sprinkle 
cocoanut over it freely. — A//ss S. P. Whittier. 

, C.KRMAN CAKIvS. 

One cu]j of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one cup of 
riour, four eggs, one teaspoonful of Cleveland's superior baking 
])OW(ler. Bake in two cakes. 

FILLING. 

Whites of live eggs, fifteen tablespoonfuls of sugar ; add cocoa- 
nut ; spread between and on top of layers. — yirs. A. H. Strout^. 

FIG CAKE. 

One pound of nice figs boiled fifteen or twenty minutes in a 

little water, one cup of stoned raisins. Chop them fine together : 

add a coffee-cup of sugar and juice of a lemon. This mixture 

may be put between two thin cakes of almost any variety. — Mrs. 
L. E. Whittier. 

APPLE JELLY CAKE. 

Hake almost any \ariety of cake in thin sheets. Put two of 

them together with a jelly made by simmering together two large 

grated apples, one cup of sugar, one egg. grated rind and juice 
of one lemon.— J C P. T. 

LEMON JELLY CAKE. 

One cup of butter, one and one-half cup of sugar, four eggs, 
one-half cup of corn starch, one and a half cup of flour, one tea- 
spoonfiil of cream of tartar, half teaspoonfiil of soda, flaxor with 
lemon. 

JELLY. 

The juice and grated rind of one lemon, a tal)lesi)oonfiil of 
butter, one cup of sugar and one egg. Beat all together and boil 
t\\o or three minutes. — Miss Co/hv. 



lOO 

CREAM PIE. 

Three eggs and a scant cup of sugar, well beaten together ; 
one heaping teaspoonful of Cleveland's superior baking powder in 
a heaping cupful of flour, one tablespoonful of water. Bake in a 
(|uick oven. 

CREAM. 

Two-thirds of a pint of milk, one tablespoonful of corn starch, 
sugar, salt and vanilla to taste. — Mrs. E. H. Drciv. 

WASHINGTON PIE. 

One cup sugar, two eggs, one and one-half cuj) flour, four 
tablespoonfuls water, one-half teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful 
cream of tartar. 

CREAM. 

Two cups milk, one cup sugar, two eggs, two tablespoonfiils 
flour. Fill while warm, and set in a cool place. — Mrs. Freeman 
Q. Barroivs. 

GINGER PUFFS. 

One cup of molasses, one of sugar, one large half cup of but- 
ter, one egg, one scant cup of cold water, one teaspoonful each 
of ginger and cinnamon, one teaspoonful of soda, four cups of 
flour. Drop on tins, as you do cream cakes. V,ery nice to eat 
hot. — Mrs. Walter N. Dole, Lynn. 

SPICED CAKE. 

One cup of milk, one of butter, two of sugar, three of flour, 
four eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream of tartar, three- 
fourths of a nutmeg, two tablespoonfuls of cinnamon. — Mrs. H. C. 
Gra7rs. 

CITRON TUMBLER CAKE. 
Three tumblers of white sugar, one of butter, one of sweet milk. 



lOI 

five of flour, one of chopped citron, four eggs, and one teaspoon- 
ful of soda. Flavor with lemon. — Mrs. J. F. Davis. 

LEMON CAKP:. 

One teacupful butter, three of powdered sugar; rub to a cream. 
The yolks of fi\e eggs well beaten, one teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in one teacupful of milk, juice and rind of one lemon, 
whites of five eggs beaten stifT. Sift in as lightly as possible four 
cu]:)s of flour. Bake and frost. — Mrs. Rebecca Hale. 

BROOKLYN CAKE. 

One and one half cup of sugar, whites of six eggs, half a cup 
of butter, one-half a teaspoonful of soda, one of cream of tartar, 
half a cup of corn starch, one and one-half cup of flour, flavor 
with lemon. — Mrs. J. F. Davis. 

' PATTEN CAKE. 

Break two eggs into a cup and fill it with cream. One cup of 
sugar, cup and a half of flour, teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half 
teaspoonful of soda. Flavor with lemon. — Mrs. J. C. Green. 

RICE FLOUR CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two and one-half of sugar, three of rice 
flour, six eggs, rind and juice of one lemon. — Mrs. E. N. Hill. 

RICE FLOUR GOLDEN CAKE. 

■ One cup of butter, two of sugar, beaten to a cream ; yolks of 

six eggs, two-thirds of a cup of milk, one teaspoonful of soda, 

two of cream of tartar, one cuj) of rice flour, two of common 
flour, and lastly the beaten whites. — Mrs. J. A. Hale. 

TEMPERANCE CAKE. 

One cu]) of cream, one of sugar, two of flour, three-fourths tea- 
spoonful of soda, spice. — Mrs. Dr. Crowell. 



PLAIN CAKK. 

One egg. halt' a cup of butter, one cn\} of. sugar, one of but- 
termilk, (sour milk is less successful,) one teaspoonful of soda, 
lla\oring to taste. All the ingredients may be stirred together at 
once. — Airs. C. //. Carpenter, Newton Centre. 

ELECTION CAKE. 

.At noon make a sponge of a ijuart of milk, a cup of yeast, 
and one of flour. x\t night add three-fourths pound of butter, one 
pound and a (]uarter of sugar, anci flour enough to make it as 
stiff as buns. Bake the next morning in loaves. Smear with white 
of egg and molasses while the cake is warm, and put it back in 
the oven for a minute. — Mrs. Mows IV. Putn'.vn. 

BUNS. 

.At noon take one and a half cup of new milk, one-half cup 
each of yeast and sugar, a little salt, flour enough to make a 
good sponge. Let it rise until night, then add one-half cup each 
of butter and sugar, a little nutmeg, currants, one-half teaspoonful 
soda, extract lemon, flour enough to mould thoroughly. Let it 
rise until morning, make in form of buns and i)ut in pans, ^^'ipe 
tops with milk and molasses. Let them rise an hour before baking. — 

Mrs. M. L. Stover. 

MOLASSES (ilNGERBREAD. 

One egg, one-half even cup of sugar, one-half large cuj) of 
molasses, two-thirds cup of sour milk, scant teaspoonful of soda, 
two teaspoonfuls of ginger, one large tablespoonful of butter, pinch 
of salt, flour to make stiff as sponge cake. — Mrs. S. S. Hunkini:;. 

HARD MOL.ASSES GINGERBREAD. 

One cup molasses, three-quarters cup sugar, half cup butter, half 
cup cold water, teaspoonful soda dissoh'ed in water, ginger and 
s])ice to taste. — Mrs. Rebecca Hale. 



I03 
■ AMMONIA CAKIOS. 

Oiie ounce of ammonia, pounded Hne, dissolved in two <u])s of 
milk. Two cups of sugar, one-third cup of butter, Hour enough 
to roll easily. Hake in a (juick o\'en. Put sugar on top. — Miss 
Car n't' Pries/. 

DROP CAKKS. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup of milk, 
two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, one of soda, flour 
to make a stiff batter. Drop on pan. Flavor to taste. — Mrs. ]Vin. 
Prrlcx. 

SOFT SUGAR GINCiFRBREAD— No. i. 

Beat to a cream one eu]) of l)utter and three of sugar. x\dd 
one cup of milk and two and onedialf of flour, into which two 
teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar have been stirred. Break into this 
mi.vture. five eggs; add tablespoonful of ginger, two cups of flour, 
a teaspoonful of dissolved soda, and l)ake in two large ])ans. — 
Mrs. J. C. Tyler. 

SOFT SUCtAR GIN(iFRBRKAl)— No. 2. 

Two eggs, onedialf cup butter, one cu]) sugar, one-half cup 
milk, two cups flour, one-half teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful 
cream of tartar. Flavor with ginger or nutmeg ; sprinkle jjowdered 
sugar over the top before baking, This gingerbread is ([uite soft 
and may be cut into squares before it is taken from the |)an. — 
Mrs. M. F. Johnson. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN GINCiFRBRKAl ). 

One half cup each of sugar and molasses, one and one half cuj) 
flour — large measure, a piece of butter the size of an egg, one egg, 
one teaspoonful each of clove, cinnamon, and ginger, one teaspoonful 
soda dissohed in one half cup of hot coffee, half cup of chopped 
raisins if )-ou like. — Mrs. Frcnnan Q. Barroios. 



I04 

NEW YORK GINGERBREAD. 

Four cups flour, two of sugar, one of butter, one of milk, four 
eggs, two teaspoonfuls ginger, a pinch of mustard, two teaspoonfuls 
cream of tartar, one of soda. — Miss A. B. Train. 

HARD GINGERBREAD— No. i. 

Two and one-half pounds of flour, three-fourths of a pound of 
butter, five eggs, two teaspoonfuls of soda, ginger to taste. To be 
rolled thin and baked on tin sheets. — Miss Peggy Duncan. 

HARD GINGERBREAD— No. 2. 

One cup of butter, three of sugar, four eggs, half-cup of milk, 
scant half-teaspoonful of soda, ginger to taste, and flour to roll 
very thin. — Miss Maria Beach, Framingham. 

HARD GINGERBREAD— No. 3. 

Two cups of sugar, one of butter, one egg, one teaspoonful of 
ginger, three tablespoonfuls of milk, one teaspoonful of soda, flour 
enough to roll. — Mrs. Samuel Ciiase. 

HARD GINGERBREAD— No. 4. 

One cup sugar, half-cup butter, one egg, tablespoonful sweet 
milk, half-teaspoonful soda, teaspoonful vanilla, flour to roll and 
cut in shapes. — Mrs. Isaac Morse. 

HARD GINGERBREAD— No. 5. 

One pound of butter, two of flour, one of sugar, six eggs, two 
teaspoonfuls of soda dissolved in a very little milk, flavor with 
lemon. Do not stir in more than two-thirds of the flour — reserve 
the rest to roll with. Bake on tin sheets. — Mrs. M. Steele. 

CRUMPETS. 
One egg, one cup brown sugar, one-half cuj) butter, one cup 



I05 

chopped raisins or currants, half-teaspoonful soda in a large spoon- 
ful of milk, flour to roll thin. — Miss Mary IV. Johnson. 

JUMBLES. 

( )ne cup of sugar, one-half cuj) of butter, one egg, half-teaspoon- 
ful of soda, spice to taste. Cut off enough for a jumble, roll it 
out in sugar, with your hand, and lay it round in the form of a 
ring. — Mrs. PJiincas Webster. 

SOFT COOKIES. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar rubbed to a cream, three 
well-beaten eggs, one cup of milk, six of flour, one teas|)oonful 
of soda, and one of cream of tartar. — Mrs. W. F. Evans. 

GRAHAM GINGER SNAPS. 
Two cups of molasses, two-thirds of a cup of butter, one table- 
spoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful of soda, flour to roll thin, 
using equal (juantities of Graham and wheat flour. Bake in a 
([uick oven. — Mrs. A. H. Herring. 

COCOANUT COOKIES. 

Two cups of sugar, three-fourths of a cup of butter, two cups 
of grated cocoanut which has been soaked in milk an hour, two 
eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, flour enough to roll thin. Bake in 
a hot oven. — Miss A. G. Bechcith, Providence. 

HERMIT CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, two-thirds cup of currants, one-half cup of 
butter, one teaspoonful each of cinnamon and clove, one nutmeg, 
a third of a cup of milk, flour to roll cpiite thin. Brush them 
over with cream and dust with sugar before baking. — Mrs. Charles 
B. Emerson. 

VANILLA WAFERS. 

Two-thirds cup of l)Utter, one cup of sugar, one egg, one tal)le- 



io6 * 

spoonful of vanilla, four tal)lespoonfuls of milk, one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, half as much soda, flour to roll. — Mrs. Dr. Hovey. 
Newton Centre. 

SUGAR COOKIES AND GINC^ERBREAD. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, two eggs, one tal)lesi)Oonful 
of milk, half a small teaspoonful of soda, flour to roll very thin 
for cookies. Add another spoonful of milk and ginger, use less 
flour, roll thicker and bake in l)ars for gingerbread.— y)//-.T. Leonard 
Whitticr. 

WITCHES. 

Two eggs, one and one-half cup of sugar, half-cup of butter, 
one tablespoonful of milk, half-teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful 
of cinnamon, cloves and allspice. Fruit, if you like. Roll (|uite 
thin. — Mrs. Helen A. Chase. 

MOLASSES SNAPS. 

One cup of molasses, three-fourths cup of sugar, tablespoonful of 
ginger, teaspoonful each of clove and cinnamon, one-half cup of 
melted butter, two teaspoonfuls of soda. Roll very thin. — Mrs. M. 
Gitfdini^s, Bangor, Me. 

SPICE CAKES— No. i. 

Ten ounces butter, one pound sugar, two pounds flour, six 

eggs, two teaspoonfuls soda dissolved in a little milk, all kinds of 

spice. Roll thin, cut round, wet the tops with white of egg, and 
sprinkle sugar over them. — Mrs. Sarah L. Holt. 

SPICE CAKES— No. 2. 

One cup butter, one of sugar, half-cuj) molasses, half-cup water, 
teaspoonful each of cinnamon, ginger, caraway seeds, coriander 
seeds, one nutmeg, one teas])Oonful soda, flour to rollout. — Miss 
H. A. Bradhnrw 



I07 

HAMLETS. 

Two eggs, one and one-half cu)) l)ro\vn sugar, one cup raisins 
chopped fine, two-thirds cup shortening, one teaspoonful each of 
cinnamon, nutmeg and cloves, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved 
in two great-spoonfiils of milk. Mix stiff, and cut like cookies. — 
Mrs. I. Broivii. 

CHOCOLATE C(X)KIES. 

Half a pound each of flour, corn starch, butter and sugar, quar- 
ter of a pound of chocolate, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls molasses, 
one teaspoonful of Cleveland's superior leaking powder. Mix soft 
as can be rolled. It rolls more easily to mix some time before 
you wish to bake. — Mrs. Rebecca Hale. 

— -^HK--,— — ■ 



(tElatlne frosting. 

Soak one teaspoonful of gelatine half an hour in one table- 
spoonful of cold water, dissolve in two tablespoonfuls of hot water, 
add one cujj of powdered sugar, stir until smooth. — Miss A. Hobbs. 

EGG FROSTINC;. 

The white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth : add gradually a 
large half-cup of powdered sugar, fla\-or with lemon, spread over 
cake. Wet a knife in cold water and smooth the frosting. 




"And still she slept an azure-lidded sleep, 
In blanched linen, smooth and lavendereii, 
While he from forth the closet brought a heap 
Of candied apples, quince and plum, and gourd 
With jellies soother than the creamy curd, 
And lucent syrups tinct' with cinnamon." 

Keats 



-— 5!H- 



CANNING FRUIT. 

I'he first requisite is perfect cans. Fill them half full of water, put on the 
rings, screw down the covers, and turn them upside down to see if they can 
lie trusted. 

To prevent cracking them \\ith the hot fruit, let hot water stand in them 
a little while before using, and keep them in a pan of hot water while 
filling; or if one prefers to fill them at a table instead of standing over the 
stove, it may be done safely if the cans are placed upon a folded cloth 
wrung out of cold water. .Vs the hot fruit is put into the jar, steam will 
generate around it and keep it from cracking. 

The jars must be filled quickly, while the fruit is boiling hot, yet it is best 
to rest a second between each ladle-full, that the bubbles of air may have a 
chance to rise. 

See that the jars are absolutely full, and immediately screw on the covers 
very tightly. As the fruit cools, the glass will contract, so they should lie 
tightened again after a little interval. 

Use just what sugar you need to make the fruit agreeable. It is the her- 
metical sealing and not the sugar which preserves the fruit. 

The preserves should be kept in a dark place. 



log 
PEARS. 

Steam the pears until soft. Take them from the steamer, sprinkle 
over the sugar, (half the weight of the fruit, or less.) When the 
sugar is dissolved, put them into a kettle and cook in the syru]) 
about ten minutes. Can immediately. 

PEACHES. 

Pare, halve and stone them, or cook them whole, as you please. 
At least a few stones should be left in each can, for the sake of 
the flavor. Make a syrup of a cupful of sugar and a half-cupful 
(jf water for each quart can. Simmer the fruit in it until it is 
transparent. Shake the kettle frequently to prevent burning. Cook 
only enough for one jar at a time, and they will not break. 

QUINCES. 

Peel, halve, and carefully remove the whole of the core. Boil 
in a little water until tender. Use this water with one-half or 
three-fourths the weight of sugar to make the syrup. Skim 
thoroughly, add the iiuinces, and cook about twenty minutes. 

STRAWBERRIES. 

Use about one-third the weight of sugar. Put the sugar to the 
berries over night, or not, as you please, but do not use any 
water. The moisture of the berries will soon dissolve the sugar. 
Put all together in the kettle, cook until just scalded through, and 
can. 

PINEAPPLE. 

(irate the fruit, or cut it into small ])ieces. Mix the sugar with 
the fruit and let it stand over night. Drain off the syrup, boil 
and skim, add the fruit, let it boil slowly about twenty minutes, 
and can. 



IIO 

PLUMS. 

Vary the (]uantity of sugar according to the variet}' of plum. 
Make the synii) with a httle water and proceed as with other 
fruit. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Pick over the fruit carefully, but neither wash nor remove from 
the stems. Press out the juice with a silver spoon, and strain it 
through a fine cloth. Allow a pound of sugar for each pint of 
juice. Put the sugar on flat pans and heat it in the oven, 
taking care not to let it brown. Stir the hot sugar into the 
strained juice, and when it is thorougly dissolved, fill the jelly- 
tumblers. Let tbem stand in a sunn\- place for a few days. It 
is said that all kinds of jellies are much better if made on sunny 
days. Made by this recipe, the jelly preserves the taste of fresh 
currants. — Mrs. Elhridge Wood. 

CURRANT JF.LLY— No. 2. 

'I'ake the currants when they are just ripe : if over-ripe, the 
jelly will not form. Mash and cook a little in their own juice, 
without water. Strain through a flannel bag. Take equal quantities 
of juice and sugar. Put the sugar into a very moderate oven to 
heat, but not brown. Put the juice over the fire and let it boil 
slowly, skimming as long as any scum rises. When clear, stir in 
the hot sugar and simmer about five minutes longer. 

BARBERRY JELLY. 

Take the fruit when rijje and plump, before the frost has 
touched it. To four qviarts, ]Mcked from the stems, put a very 
little water, and stew until soft. Strain and proceed as in currant 
jelly, cooking a little longer after adding the sugar, if it seems to 
be necessary. 



(;rapk jelly. 

Pick the grapes from the stems. To tour (juarts put about a 
pint and a half of water. Boil until (juite soft ; pour into a hair 
sieve ; take the juice which runs through, and proceed as in the 
last rule for Jelly. 

Then press through all the pul]). To one (juart of this add one 
pint of sugar, boil about ten minutes, and you have a nice jam, which 
may be canned for future use. 

PRESERVED CrRAPES. 

Push the pulp from the skins. Cook it a little so that it can be 
freed from the seeds by rubbing through a sieve. Cover the skins 
with water and boil an hour, or longer if necessar)' to make them 
\er)- tender. Put the skins and pulp together with an equal ciuantit}- 
of sugar. Simmer about twenty minutes longer. — Mrs. B. F. Hosford. 

PRESERVED ORANGE PEEL. 

Cut the peel of oranges into narrow shreds and boil until tender, 
changing the water three times. Use pound for pound of sugar and 
peel. Stiueeze the juice of the oranges over the sugar. Boil twenty 
minutes all together. — Mrs. A. N. Arnold. 

PRESERVED CxREEN TOMATO. 

Skin the tomatoes, and take three-fourths of a pound of brown 
sugar to one pound of tomatoes. Boil them to a jam. with ginger- 
root and slices of lemon ; add a little vinegar, if you please. — Mrs. 
Robert Harris, New York. 

PRESERVED CLFRON. 

Cut citron into thin rings, remove seeds and rind, cut into small 
l)ieces. .\llow a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. Put the sugar 
in a kettle with a little water — a gill or more to a poimd. and stir 
until well dissolved. Place upon the stove and add sliced lemons, at 



the rate of a lemon to a pound, and if you please, some lumps of 
ginger-root. Let it boil one-half to three-quarters of an hour, then 
add the citron, and boil until tender. — Mrs. Newton Stover, Sedgwick, 
Me. 

QUINCE MARMALADE, 

Cores and parings of a peck of quinces, and six whole quinces cut 
up. Cover with water, boil till soft, sift through a sieve. To one 
liowl of quince add one bowl of sugar ; boil together slowly for three 
or four hours. When it has become sufficiently thick, put into bowls 
or molds ; or it may be spread on a platter an inch in depth. It 
will harden in a week or so, and may then be cut into s(|uares to 
keep. — Mrs. Alary Winchester, Framingham. 

QUINCE AND APPLE. 

Equal quantities of cjuince and sour apples, both pared and quar- 
tered. Two quarts of sugar to three quarts of fruit. Partly cook the 
(juinces, and then add the apples. — Annie Stoddard, Providence. 

MOLASSES QUINCE. 

Equal (juantities of quince and sweet apples, (not pared,) with 
three-fourths the quantity of molasses. Cook all together until soft. — 
Annie Stoddard, Providence. 

BUTTERED APPLES. 

Two pounds of tjuartered apples, one-fourth pound of butter. Put 
the butter into a spider, then the quarters of apples, and sprinkle 
them with one-half pound of sugar. Put in a cool oven and let them 
roast slowly. Serve on toast with a sprinkling of sugar over them. — 
Miss A. B. Train, Newton Centre. 

APPLE SAUCE. 

Wash, ([uarter and core the apples, but do not pare them. Put as 
much sugar as they will need in a sauce-pan with a little water. 



113 

When it boils, add the apples and let them stew slowly, without stir- 
ring, until soft. Serve immediately.— 71//'^. C. IV. Train. 

applp: jam. 

Use eciual quantities of brown sugar and sour apples. Make a 
syrup of the sugar, carefully removing the scum : add the apples, 
chopped, some grated lemon peel and a few Ir.mps of white ginger. 
Simmer several hours, until the ai)ple looks clear and yellow. 

TO STEW CRANBERRIES. 

One quart of cranberries, one pint of sugar, one-half pint of water, 
Put all together, and do not stir.— iI/>--f. Mciro:a!rt Longlcy. 








r^v: 






"Sabean odors from the spicy shores of 
Arahy the blest." 

MlI.TON. 

CUCUMBERS. 

Place a hundred small cucumbers and a pint -of salt in a jar and 
])our on them boiling water. Cover them closely for twenty-four 
hours, then take them from the jar and wipe each of them with a 
soft towel. Wash the jar and replace them, pouring on them scalded 
vinegar, with such spices as you please. These pickles will very soon 
be ready for use. — Mrs. J. N. Di/nca?i. 

MIXED PICKLES. 

Take small cuciniibers. onions, cauliflower, sliced cabbage, green 
tomatoes, i)arboiled and sliced carrots, peppers, beans, and grated or 
sliced horse radish. Let all excepting the horse radish remain in salt 
and water forty-eight hours. Drain thoroughly. To two gallons of 
vinegar add one-cpiarter of a pound each of turmeric powder and 
mustard, one tablespoonful of curry. Scald the vinegar, add the other 



115 

ingredients, and pour hot over the cucumbers. Cover tight and keep 
in a cool place. — Mrs. S. Stuart. 

PICCALILLI— No. I. 

Chop or slice one-half bushel of green tomatoes ; sprinkle with salt ; 
let them stand over night ; in the morning drain them and cook in 
weak vinegar with one pound of green peppers. Put into a stone jar 
a layer of tomatoes, a layer of horse radish and sugar, and spice- 
bags of cinnamon, alls])ice and cloves ; cover with strong vinegar. — 
Mrs. E. H. Dreiu. 

PICCALILLI— No 2. 

Slice one peck green tomatoes, add one cup of salt, let it stand 
till morning, drain off the water. Put them in a kettle over the fire 
and cover with vinegar, x^dd two cups white sugar, five chopped 
onions, five chopped peppers, two spoonfuls each of mustard and 
ginger, half-spoonful each of allspice and cinnamon. — Mrs. Dr. 
Sellers. 

CAULIFLOWER PICKLE. 

Boil the cauliflower — after stripping it into small pieces — in weak 
vinegar with a little salt, drain, and to one peck of cauliflower pour 
vinegar enough to cover it, after letting the vinegar come to the boil- 
ing point, with the following ingredients in it : one-half pound brown 
sugar, two ounces ground mustard, one ounce each of turmeric, 
celery seed, white mustard seed, ground pepper, and cloves. Less 
mustard may be used if this is too highly seasoned. — Mrs. C. P. 

CHOW CHOW. 

One peck of green tomatoes, three good-sized onions, six green 
peppers, seeds taken out. Chop and boil together with two cjuarts of 
vinegar; strain, and throw away the vinegar. Then to three ([uarts ot 
new cider vinegar, scalding hot, add twelve pickled limes (•hopi)ed 
fine, one cuji of mixed mustard, one cu]) of sugar, three tables]ioon- 



ii6 

fills of salt, one dessertspoonful each of cloves, cinnamon and allspice, 
and pour hot over the tomatoes. — Mrs. Walter N. Dole. Lynn. 

AMERICAN CAPERS. 

Pick green nasturtion seeds fresh from the vines, cover them with 
vinegar, and just scald them. — Mrs. Rebecca Hale. 

STUFFED PEPPERS. 

One dozen peppers. Cut off the tops and remove the seeds and 
pulp, and soak in weak brine for twenty-four hours. Chop green 
tomatoes, red cal)l)age, onions and one pepper together, and • iill the 
peppers with the mixture. Sew on the tops and pour over tliem 
boiling vinegar. They are very nice sliced. — Mrs. H. S. Littlcfield. 

RIPE CUCUMBER PICKLE. 

Take large, ripe cucumbers, before the frost touches them. Pare 
and take out the seeds, chop — not very fine, add salt in the propor- 
tion of a spoonful to two quarts of cucumber. Let them stand over 
night, rinse well in cold water, and leave in colander till perfectly 
drained ; then put into jars and add pepper and cold vinegar. They 
retain the flavor of fresh cucumbers. — Mrs. Geo. W. Bosiuorth, Cam- 
bridge. 

PICKLED ECxGS. 

Boil eggs hard, take off the shells. Put the eggs in a jar and \)0\\\ 
on them scalding vinegar flavored with ginger, pejiper and allspice, 
(iood with cold meats. — Mrs. C. R. Evans. 

PICKLED PEARS. 

Seven pounds of fruit, three of sugar, one ounce of whole cloves, 
one ounce of stick cinnamon, one pint of vinegar. Pare the fruit. 
When the sugar and \'inegar boil, skim, and boil the fruit in it till it 
is soft. Place the pears in the jar while hot and sprinkle with the 
spice. Pour on the syrup while hot. — Mrs. T. G. Applcton. 



117 

PICKLED PEACHF:S. 

Twelve pounds of peaches, six pounds of brown sugar, one pint of 
vinegar. If spice is desired, one-half stick of cinnamon and one- 
(]uarter ounce of whole cloves. Pour boiling water on the peaches 
and dry them with a cloth without breaking the skin. Simmer sugar 
and vinegar together, then put the fruit into the syrup and boil 
gently until cooked to the stone. — Miss A. B. Train, Newton Centre. 

PICKLED BLACKBERRIES. 

Three quarts berries, one pint vinegar, one pound sugar, cloves. 
Simmer two or three hours. — Jifrs. M. L. Stover. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Five pounds of currants, four of sugar, one pint of vinegar, two 
tablespoonfuls each of clove and cinnamon. Cook three-fourths of an 
hour. — Mrs. Dr. Crowell. 

PICKLED CHERRIES. 

Seven pounds of fruit (white heart), four of sugar, one ])int of 
vinegar, spices, cloves and cinnamon. Boil all together and can. — 
Mrs. J. IV. B. Clark. 

SPICED CHERRIES. 

Six pounds of fruit, three of sugar, one pint of vinegar, cloves and 
cinnamon to suit the taste. Boil two hours. This will keep without 
being canned. — Mrs. J. JV. B. Clark. 





CLEAR CANDY. 

Two cups white sugar, one of water, large teaspoonful of vinegar. 
Do not stir. Flavor to taste. Work this as molasses candy, or use 
it to candy nut meats, dropping them into the mixture. Take them 
out with two forks and put on marble to cool. — Miss A. B. Train. 
Newton ("entre. 

BUTTER TAFFY. 

One cu]) of sugar, one-half cup of molasses, two tablespoonfuls of 
water, tu'o of vinegar, butter size of an egg. — Miss J. F. Smiley. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

One cup of grated chocolate, one of milk, one of molasses, one of 
sugar, butter size of an egg. Boil until it thickens, then cool in shal- 
low i)ans. — E. A. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

Half cake Baker's chocolate, melted in a bowl over a kettle of 
boiling water ; two cups sugar, in two and a half cups of milk 



119 

or water. Boil hani five minutes, and flavor with \anilla. Stir 

until it becomes a paste, then roll into little l)alls with the hands. 

\Mien liard, droj) them into the melted chocolate ; lift out with 

two forks ; cool on marble or l)uttered dish. — .S". 

COCOANUT CANDY. 

Six cups white sugar, three of grated cocoanut, three of water, 
{using the milk of the nut, if perfecdy sweet, adding water to it 
to make the three cups.) Boil sugar and water until very thick, 
then add the cocoanut until as thick as pudding. Turn on to 
a platter or marble to cool, and cut in squares. — B. 

WALNUT CREAM. 

Two cups of sugar, two-thirds cup of milk, one-third pound of 
English walnuts. Boil seven minutes ; take from the stove and 
beat to a cream, putting in the nuts when ])artially thickened ; 
))our in a dish to cool. — Miss M. F. Stuart. 

PEPPERMINTS. 

One cup sugar (not granulated), one-quarter cup boiling water. 
Boil without stirring, seven minutes ; beat until thick ; add three 
or four drops of oil of peppermint. Drop tjuickl}' on paper. 
Checkerberry or grated chocolate may be used instead of peppermint. — 
Miss FJlcii Joiiiiso/i, Newton Centre. 

MARSH MALLO^^' PASTE. 

1 )issolve one-half pound of gum Arabic in one pint of water ; strain 
and add half a pound fine sugar and place over the fire, stirring 
constandy till the syrup is dissolved and all is the consistency of 
honey ; add gradually the whites of four eggs, well beaten ; stir 
the mixture till it becomes somewhat thin and does not adhere 
to the finger ; pour all into a i)an slightly dusted with ])owdered 



I20 

Starch, and when cool divide into small scjuares. Flavor to the 
taste just before pouring out to cool. — Airs. J. P. Worstcll. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

One cup sugar, two of molasses, tablespoonful of vinegar. Boil 
about twenty minutes, or until it hardens in cold water. Stir in 
a teaspoonful of dry soda, and pour into buttered tins ; when cool, 
pull and cut in sticks. 

MOLASSES CANDY— No. 2. 

Boil Porto Rico molasses until it hardens in cold water ; pour 
on buttered pans ; when cool, work with the hands and pull until 
very white. — Mrs. M. Steele. 




^ 



Now clear the fire and close the shutters fast. 
Let fall the curtains, wheel the sofa round, 
And while the bubbling and loud-hissing urn 
Throws up a steaming column, and the cups 
That cheer but not inebriate, wait on each; 
So let us welcome peaceful evening in. 

COWI'EK. 



Coffee, which makes the politician wise, 
And see through all things with his half-closed eyes. 

PnpK. 



--3!^- 



TEA. 

Use an earthen teapot. An even teaspoonful of tea is the usual 
allowance for one person. Scald the teapot, put in the tea. and 
add the needed amount of l>oi/ii!g water. Cover closely and let 
it steep five minutes, not boil. English Breakfast tea requires 
longer steeping, and some persons prefer it boiled for two or three 
minutes. 

COFFEE— No. I. 

Mix an egg with the coffee, without beating : pour cold water 
over it. and let it boil up once or twice. — Annie Stoddard. 



COFFEE— No. 2. 
Save your egg-shells. Crumble one in a cup, pour on a little 
boiling water, and mix it with your coffee. Put it in the coffee- 
pot, add l)oiling water, and boil slowly about ten minutes. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Add to one ounce of chocolate, two tablespoonfuls of sugar and 
one of water. Stir in a small sauce-pan over the fire, until per- 
fectly smooth and glossy. Stir this into one (]uart of boiling water, 
or milk and water. Mix thoroughly and serve immediately. Do 
not let it l)oil after adding the milk. — Mrs. M. L. Stover. 

CRUST COFFEE. 

I'ake a large crust of brown bread ; dry it in the toaster, and 
at last almost burn both sides ; lay it in a sauce-pan and pour 
boiling water on it ; boil it a minute or two, then strain off the 
coffee. It should be strong enough to look like real coffee, of 
which it is a very good imitation when well made. 

UNFERMENTED (IRAPE WINE. 

To one peck of grapes add two (luarts of water. Thoroughly 
bruise the grapes and let them stand in the water over night ; 
strain, and add seven pounds of sugar to a gallon ; simmer 
over a slow fire and skim until it becomes clear ; let it boil a 
little, taking care not to burn ; strain into jars, and when cool, 
bottle for use. To be diluted with water the night before using. — 
Mrs. C. N. Rhodes. 

ENGLISH (^JNGER BEER. 

Pour four c quarts of boiling water upon an ounce and a half ot 
ginger, an ounce of cream of tartar, a pound of white sugar, and 
two fresh lemons, sliced thin. It should l)e raised twenty-four 
hours, with two gills of good yeast, and then bottled. It improves 



123 

by keeping several weeks, unless the weather is hot. and is an 
excellent beverage. 

LEMON POP. 

Put one pound of brown sugar into a stone jar with one sliced 
lemon, one and one-half tablespoonful of ginger tied in a bag ; 
add five quarts of boiling water. ^Vhen lukewarm, add one-half 
pint of yeast ; let it remain twelve hours, then bottle for use. — 
Miss Grace C. Rhodes. 

MEAD— No. I. 

Five pounds of sugar, two quarts of cold water, white of one 
egg, quarter of a pound of tartaric acid, two ounces essence of 
sassafras, half-ounce essence of checkerbeny. Stir the egg into the 
water, then put in the sugar, and let it boil ; add one-half pint 
of water to stop its boiling. Let it boil again, add more water, 
skim, and let boil again ; skim again ; when cool, strain, add acid 
and essence, and bottle for summer drink. — Mrs. O. D. Cheney. 

MEAD— No. 2. 

Three and one- half pounds of brown sugar, one and one-half 
]Mnt of molasses, two quarts boiling water, one-fourth of a pound 
of tartaric acid and one ounce of sassafras. Put sugar, molasses 
and tartaric acid into a jar, pour the boiling water over them : 
let stand o\-er night ; in the morning add the sassafras and bottle 
for use. — Mrs. Win. S. Perky. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Cover ripe raspberries with vinegar, and let them stand two or 
three days, then mash and strain. To a pint of juice add a pint 
of white sugar ; boil twenty minutes, and skim ; bottle when cool. 
-A little of this in a glass of water is a very refreshing drink. 



'Tis a little thing 
To give a cup of water; yet its draught 
Of cool refreshment, drained by fevered lips. 
May • give a shock of pleasure to the frame 
More exquisite than when nectarean juice 
Renews the life of joy in happiest hours. 

Hartley Coi.kkiix;!;. 
— -^•^— i- — 

BEEF TEA— No. i. 

'I'ake one pound of beef from the round, trim off all shreds 
and fat, and choij fine. Put in a bowl or porcelain-lined sauce- 
pan, and add one large cup • of cold water ; set on the range 
where it will warm very slowly ; stir it constantly, and as soon as 
the juice begins to change color take it from the fire, and let it 
stand fifteen minutes : then wring through a strong crash towel. 
Add salt when it is wanted for use. One or two spoonfuls of 
this, given at inter\-als of an hour, to patients' who cannot 
take other food, will nourish the system, and is a better stimu- 
lant, in cases of del)ility. than brandy. — -/////>?' A. MarsJiall, M. D. 

BEEF TEA— No. 2. 

Choose a lean and juicy piece of beef, the size , of your hand ; 
take off all the fat : broil it only three or four minutes, on ver}' 



125 

hot coals ; lay it in a porringer or l)o\vl, sprinkle it with salt, and 
jjour upon it two or three gills of boiling water ; then cut it into 
small i)ieces as it lies in the water. Cover it closely, and let it 
stand where it will keep hot, but not boil. 

BEEF TEA— No. 3. 

Cut a piece of lean, juicy beef into pieces an inch scjuare, put 
them into a wide-mouthed bottle and cork it tight ; set the l)0ttle 
into a kettle of cold water and boil it an hour. This mode of 
making beef tea concentrates the nourishment more than any 
other.— y^. B. C. 

BEEF JUICE. 

Heat a thick slice of beefsteak just enough to start the juice, 
(do not cook it) ; squeeze out all the juice with a lemon- 
scpieezer ; add a little salt. 

OATMEAL GRUEL. 

To one (luart boiling water, gradually add one-half cup steam- 
cooked oatmeal. Boil it gently one-half hour, stirring frequently. 
If it boils away too much, add a little water. Strain thoroughly, 
salt and return to the stove, and add milk at pleasure, letting it 
Iwaf, but not boil. Serve immediately. — Mrs. M. L. Stover. 

ARROWROOT GRUEL. 

'i'wo tablespoonfuls of arrowroot, one i)int each of sweet milk and 
boiling water: sweeten with loaf sugar. 

GLUTEN GRUEL. 

Into one (piart of boiling water stir two tablespoonfuls of ( duten 
Flour, mixed thoroughly in cold water. Boil from fifteen to twenty 
minutes, season with salt, add sugar, milk or cream, if desired. 



I 26 

PLEASANT DRINK IN P^EVER. 

Put half a pint of dried sour apples into a quart pitcher, and 
fill it with boiling water. When cold it is ready to drink, either 
with or without ice. Fresh sour aj^ples may be used in the same 
way. — Mrs. M. C. How. 

DRINKS FOR THE SICK. 

Pour boiling water upon mashed cranberries, apples, currants or 
raspberries ; pour off the water, sweeten and cool. 

Toast a crust of white bread very brown, without burning it, 
and put it into cold water. After an hour the water will be a 
refreshing drink. 

Pour boiling water upon brown bread toasted quite l)rown, or 
upon pounded parched corn, boil a minute, strain, add sugar and 
cream or milk. — T. C. W. 

TO PREPARE RAW EGG. 

Beat the yolk and a teaspoonful of sugar in a glass ; stir in a 
teaspoonful of wine, if it is needed, or flavor with nutmeg ; add 
the white of the egg, beaten to a stiff froth. Eggs are very 
palatable served simply with a little iced water. — T. C. //'. 

SAGO CREAM FOR INVALIDS. 

Boil one dessertspoonful of sago in a little water until it is 
reduced to a clear jelly, add one cup of thick, sweet cream, and 
boil again. Beat a fresh egg very light and pour the hot sago 
upon it ; sweeten and spice to taste. To be eaten either warm 
or cold.— J/;-x./ A. Hale. 

TAPIOCA JELLY. 

Tapioca, two tal)lespoonfuls ; cold water, one pint. Boil very 
gently for an hour, or until it is a clear jelly ; add sugar, nutmeg 
and lemon-juice to the taste. In some cases of illness it is 



127 

desirable to add a little wine or brandy. It is esjjecially valuable 
in throat troubles. — Mrs. E. IF. Ames. 

CHICKEN FOR AN INVALID. 

Choose a very tender chicken ; cut out the breast, salt it, rub 
a bit of butter, on it, and broil it on a bed of live coals, not 
too hot. Turn it frequently, that the outside be not burned ; it 
will be more delicate than if cooked in any other way. — T., C. Jf. 

MILK PORRIDCK. 

One quart of boiling milk — or milk and water — two tablespoon- 
fuls of Gluten Flour mixed with a little cold milk and half a tea- 
spoonful of salt ; stir into the milk, and boil fifteen or twenty 
minutes. 

MOSS TEA. 

Rinse in cold water a few pieces of Irish moss, place it in an 
earthen dish, cover with a pint of cold water, let it heat up very 
gradually till it comes to boil, add more water if needed, boil two or 
three minutes, strain upon the juice of one or two lemons, and 
sweeten to the taste. — Af/ss S. P. Whitticr. 

BREAD FROM SPECIAL DIABETIC FOOD. 

Use about one-half teacup of yeast to one quart of water ; stir in 
flour sufficient to make sponge somewhat thinner than that from 
ordinary flour; knead the dough only enough to form the loaf. This 
makes two loaves. Bake about one hour. Raise this as you loouhl 
otJier flours. Oluten Flour can be used in the same way. 




'( lars auld claes look amaist as weel's 
the new." 

Burns. 

— -^-^ie-r- — 



Before washing black and white, stone, slate or maroon-colored cotton 
goods, dip them in a solution of salt and water, made by dissolving two cup- 
fuls of salt in ten quarts of cold water, and hang them in a shady place to 
dry. The salt sets the colors. When dry, wash in a light suds in the usual 
way. Calicoes and muslins do not rei|uire a ht>t suds; water moderately warm 
is best. Wash quickly, turn the wrong side out, and dry in the shade. A 
little salt in the rinsing water is an improvement. .For starch, use a • little 
white glue v\ater, cool and clean. .\hvays iron cm the wrong side, with a 
moderately hot iron. 

Blue, stone, slate and brown-colored articles may also be made to retain 
their color perfectly by adding sugar of lead to the water in which they 
are to be washed. Di.ssolve one ounce of sugar of lead in a pailful of 
hot water, stir carefully until it is thoroughly dissolved, and let the mixture 
cool. When about milk-warm, put in the articles and let them remain an 
hour. Hang up to dry l^efore washing. The sugar of lead fi.xes the color 
permanently, so that treatment v\ith it will not need to be repeated. Use 
this preparation with caution; sugar of leatl is poisonous. 

Fruit or wine stains can he removed from silk, woolen or cotton goods by 
sjionging them gently with ammonia and alcohol — a teaspoonful of ammonia 
to a wineglass of alcohol. I'"inish with clear alcohol. The fumes of a lighted 
match will remove renmants of stains. 



129 

JAVALI,E WATER. 

For removing fruit, tea. or other stains : One-half pound chloride 
of lime dissolved in two quarts of boiling water and strained ; add 
one pound sal-soda dissolved in two quarts of boiling water. Put 
away in a jug. and use when needed. \Mien used, dilute a little 
and soak the spots in it fifteen minutes, or longer. — Mrs. L. 
Whittier. 

BORAX SOAP. 

Two ounces of borax, two quarts of water, one ]>ound of hard 
soap. Boil until the soap is dissolved, then let it cool. Cut the 
soap into small pieces before putting into water. — Mrs. C. R. 
Evans. 

BLUEING FOR CLOTHES. 

Put one ounce of Prussian blue powder into a bottle contain- 
ing one quart of soft water. Add a quarter of an ounce of 
powdered oxalic acid. One teaspoonful will be sufficient to use 
for a washing. — Mrs. II'. R. Whittier. 

CtLoss for starch. 

Two ounces of fine white powdered gum Arabic. l^ut in a 
pitcher and pour over it a pint of boiling water. Co\er it and 
let it stand over night ; then pour from the dregs into a bottle ; 
cork and keep for use. Add a tablespoonful to a pint of starch. — 
Mrs. A. L. George. 

CLEANSING CREAM. 

Two ounces of white castile soa]). two ounces of ammonia, half 
an ounce of ether, half an ounce of spirits of wine. Let the 
druggist i)ut -the three last ingredients in a vial together. Cut the 
soap fine and dissolve in one-half pint of soft hot water ; add 
two quarts of cold water ; put all together in a bottle, cork it 



130 

tight, and use as may be needed to remove spots from l)lack 
dresses, carpets, «!v:c. — Miss Susan Johnson, Brunswick, Me. 

TO CLEANSE BLACK WOOLEN GOODS. 

To cleanse black woolen goods, wash them in warm soap-suds, 
rinse in strong blueing water. Do not wring at all, but hang upon 
the line until the dripping is over, then press upon the wrong 
side. 

, Or buy an ounce of California soap-bark, pour upon it a pint 
of boiling water ; when cool, strain. Sponge the goods with it 
upon the right side, and press immediately upon the wrong side. 

OXALIC ACID. 

To remove ink-stains, iron-rust, etc., from 7u/iik goods, use oxalic 
acid. Upon an ounce of the acid pour a pint of boiling water. 
Keej:) it in a bottle marked "Poison," away from the children. 
Wet with it the stained article, and hold it over the steam of 
hot water. Wash all the acid from the article, or it will injure 
the fabric. 




HaSiDIEjLILAMiEOIJS. 

"Here's to the housewife that's thrifty." 

Sheridan. 
— •— ^ -^ -^ • — 

P^OR CLEANING SILVER. 

One pint of alcohol, half-ounce of ammonia, four oinices of 
Spanish whiting, half pint of rain water. A])ply with a sponge 
and wipe with a soft cloth. — Afrs. Elbridgc Wood. 

CAMPHOR ICE. 

Equal parts of gtnii camphor, white wax, spermaceti and sweet 
oil, melted together, and stirred constantly until cold. 

COLOGNE WA^FER. 

Six drachms each of oil of lavender, oil of biu-gamot, and 
essence of lemon, one drachm of oil of rosemary, twenty drops of 
oil of cinnamon, three ([uarts of alcohol. — Miss Caroline Dinuaii. 

rJME AVATER. 

Put a hunp of fresh, tmslacked lime abcnit as large as a half 
peck measure into an unpainted pail. Poiu" over slowly, so as not 
to slack too fast, about foin- irallons of hot water, and stir 



thoroughly. Let it settle, and stir again two or three times in 
twenty-four hours. Then bottle all that can be poured oft' clear. 

A little of it may be taken for acidity of the stomach. A tea- 
spoonful in a cup of milk will make it digestible when otherwise 
it might not be. 

The lime water is also very useful for cleansing small milk 
vessels, nursing bottles, &c. 

BRINE 'for butter. 

Dissolve a cup of coarse salt in two (piarts of water, just l)oil. 
skim and set away to cool. Pour over the butter when cold. 

PICKLE FOR EGGS. 

One gallon of water, one pound of (juick-lime, one-half pint of 
salt, one ounce, (or a quarter of a cup,) of cream of tartar. — 
Mrs. C. \V. Train. 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

One quart of sifted flour' is one pound. 

One pint of granulated sugar is a pound. 

Two cups of butter, packed, are a pound. 

Ten eggs are a pound. 

Five cups of sifted flour are a pound. 

Eight even tablespoonfuls are a gill. 

■ ^ ^!^-^ — 

Broth will be more nutritious if thickened in part with tapioca, 
rather than wholly with rice. 

Add one-quarter of a cup of boiling water to an)' rule for 
sponge cake, to make it roll easily for jelly-cake. 

Sausages, liver, shad and man}^ other breakfast dishes uhich are. 
usually cooked in the spider or on a griddle, are ecjuall)' nice 
cooked by the hot morning fire in the oven, thus a\oiding much 
smoke and unj^leasant odor in the kitchen. 



Two tablespoonfuls of newly-fallen snow, stirred in (juickly and 
baked immediately, are e(|ual to one egg in ])uddings or pan- 
cakes. 

Raised bread is \ery good l)aked on the griddle for breakfast, 
when there is not time to rise it in pans. Roll about half as 
thick as for biscuit, cut round, and have the griddle moderately 
hot. 

If in cooking you have used too much sugar, a little .salt will 
correct the error ; if too much salt, correct with sugar. 

Morning's milk, says a Clerman philosopher, commonly vields 
more cream than the evening's, at the same temperature. 

To prevent contagion from eruptive disease, keep constantly in 
the sick room plates of sliced raw onions. As fast as they become 
discolored, replace with fresh ones. 

For- a cold, pare off the yellow rind of a lemon and slice the 
remainder. Put layers of lemon and sugar in a deep plate, cover 
close with a saucer, and set in a warm place. Use freely.- 

.\ poultice of soda water and flour will cure the sting of a wasp, 
slices of raw onion the sting of a bee. 

For chilblains, a])ply iodine once or twice a day, as the skin will 
allow. 

To restore from stroke of lightning, shower with cold water. 

For a burn, apply poultices of grated raw potato, every few 
minutes ; or, use common l)read soda : or, a wash of linseed oil and 
lime water, half and half. 

Keep coffee in a glass fruit can, and screw on the cover tight. 
Keep tea in a tin canister. 

To strengthen a new earthen teapot, potter's ware vessel, or iron 
kettle, fill with cold water and heat very gradually indeed to the 
boiling point. 

.\n excellent disinfectant is made b}- dissolving half a pound of 
copperas in two gallons of water. 



134 

When fruit burns on the bottom of a porcelain kettle, put in a 
tablespoonful of soda and some boiling water and let it remain a 
few minutes. 

To loosen a glass stopper, pour around it a little sweet oil, close 
to the mouth of the bottle, and lay it near the fire ; afterward wrap 
a thick cloth round the end of a stick and strike the stopper gently. 

The hands and nails are kept clean and white, soft and supple, 
by daily use of lemon instead of soap. 

To clean tinted paint, use nice whiting instead of soap. Wet a 
piece of flannel in clean, warm water, squeeze nearly dry, dip into 
the whiting and with it rub the soiled paint ; afterwards wash in clean 
water and rub dry with a soft chamois. 

To renew velvet, heat an iron moderately hot, cover it with a wet 
cloth and hold it under the velvet on the wrong side. The steam 
will penetrate the velvet, and the pile can be raised with a common 
clothes brush. 

White spots can be removed from crape by the use of clear 
alcohol. 

The squeaking of boots may be prevented by driving a few pegs 
in the middle of the sole. 

Cranberries may be kept all winter by placing them in a firkin of 
water, in the cellar. 

Embroidery, to be ironed nicely, should be put upon flannel and 
ironed until dry. 

Spots on zinc may be removed by the use of kerosene. 

Nickle plate may be polished with pulverized borax. Use with it 
hot water and a little soap ; rub dry with Canton flannel. 

Tin ware should be washed in hot soft water. Soap the cloth well, 
and rub the tin briskly ; pour boiling water over it and wipe dry. 

When ribbons or silk are laid aside they should be wrapped or 
folded in coarse brown paper, which, as it contains a portion 
of tar and turpentine, will preserve the color of the silk and 



'35 

prexent white silk from turning \elk)\v. \\'hite paper shcnikl /ir7rr be 

nsed. 

Silver ware is often tarnished in houses where hard coal is used. 
'I'his tarnish can be entirely prevented by painting the silver with a 
soft brush dipped into alcohol in which some collodion has been dis- 
solved. The liciuid dries immediately and forms a thin, invisible coat- 
ing upon the silver, which protects it from all effects of the atmos- " 
phere, etc. It can be removed at any time by dipping the article in 
hot water. 

A silver spoon put into a tumbler or glass jar will ]irevent its 
breaking when tilled with hot water. 

Clean oil-cloths with milk and water ; a brush and soap will ruin 

them. 

All kinds of tubs and firkins should be turned upside down on the 

cellar floor to prevent their leaking. 

Use one tablespoonful Paris green in a pailful of water, to kill 
canker worms. Ai)ply with a large syringe. Good for all insects that 
infest shrubbery. 

To cleanse marble, use two ounces of common soda, one ot 
pumice stone, one of finely powdered chalk. Sift them through a 
fine sieve and mix with water. Rub the mixture well oNer the marble. 
Then wash with soap and water. 

To clean hair brushes, wash in spirits of ammonia and hot water, 
and dry with a coarse towel. 

To remove tar, rub well with lard, then wash with soa|) and N\arm 

water. 

Scatter sprigs of wormwood in places infested with black ants. 

The little red ants will leave closets where sea-sand is sprinkled, ox 
where oyster shells are laid. 

A valued majolica pitcher was accidentally cracked, and thus ren- 
dered of no use beyond ornament. It was put into a pail of 



136 

skimmed milk and boiled for some time, . the crack closed, and the 
pitcher has again become a useful member of society. 

A hot vessel set upon varnished furniture will leave a white s]3ot. 
Such a spot can be removed by wetting a bit of flannel in alcohol 
and rubbing briskly over the place until the spot is effaced : then wet 
another flannel in linseed oil and rub over lightly. 

To remove oil from a carpet or any woolen stuff, aj^ply buckwheat 
plentifully. Never use water, or licjuid of any kind. 

Indian meal, moistened and applied to soiled places on carpets, 
will often remove all traces of the spots, and without the slightest 
injury to the most delicate colors. 

A paste made from common starch and cold water will remove 
stains from mattresses. If the first application is not sufficient to do 
it thoroughly, re])eat, but the first paste must remain for many 
hours before the second is apphed. 

Cover pickle jars with grape leaves, changing them occasionally. 
They exclude the air, and impart a delightful flavor to the |)ickles. 




TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



PAGE. 

SOUPS, - : - . . 7 

FISH, - - - - - 12 

MEATS, - - - - - i8 

FRACrMENTS, - - - - 27 

ECrGS, - - - ,- - ■ 31 

SAUCES AND SALADS. . . . 34 

VEGETABLES, - - - - 39 

BREAD, - - - - - 45 

BREAKFASl' AND TEA. - - - 52 

PIES, - - - . - - 62 

PUDDINGS, ----- 68 

DESSERTS, - - - - 81 

CAKES, ----- 89 

PRESERVES, .... 108 

PICKLES, - - ■- - - 114 

CANDIES, - - - - 118 

BEVERAGES, - - - - - 121 

FOR THE SICK, - - - - 124 

LAUNDRY, - - - - - 12S 

MISCELLANEOUS. - - - iii 



AN UNBROKEN RECORD OF SUCCESS 



DURYEAS' Glen Cove Manufacturing Co. received the ONLY 

GOLD MEDAL, over all Competitors, at 

PARIS EXPOSITION, 1878. 



►>: 



DUI(YEi|^'+ ^ATl+l|LO^g + ^TAI(dH,i- 



GiT'cs a Beau tif III, White, Glossy aul Lastiii}:, Finish. 
NO OTHER STARCH SO EASILY USED OR SO ECONOMICAL. 



DURYEAS' IMPROVED GORN STAR6H 

FROM THE BEST SELECTED INDIAN CORN, 



DURYEAS' STARCH, 

IN EVERY INSTANCE OF COMPETITION HAS RECEIVED THE 
.:^— PIGJI KST- : -71 W« KD.— 45- 

In (uldHuin In Medals, many Diploman havf been received. The Following are a 
feiP of the characterizinej terynn of award: at — 



'EXCEED! NCILV EXCELLENT." 
'PERFECTION OF PREPARATION." 
'BEST PRODUCTION OF ITS KIND." 
'NOTABLE OR ABSOLUTE PURITY." 
'REMARKABLE EXCELLENCE." ' 
'FOR SUPERIOR MERIT, not alone as keinc 
THE BEST OF THE KIND EXHIBITED, but as the BEST 
KNOWN TO EXIST IN THE MARKET OF AMERICAN PRODUCTIONS." 



London, 1862, for (|uality, 
Paris, 1S67, 
Paris, 1878, 
Centennial, 1876, for 
Brussels, 1876, for 
Franklin Inst., Penn., 



im^FOR SALF BY GROCFRS GFNERALLY. 



ALWAYS IN STOCK, A LAR&E VARIETY AND THE LATEST IMPROVEMENTS IN 

KITCHEN FURNISHING GOODS 



IMPROVED BREAD MIXER. 




By its use, dough is thoroughly 
kneaded, and much hard labor 
avoided 



VEOETABLE BOILER. 




All sizes. Used for 
boiling vegetables and eggs 

« OCOA POTS. 



* 



L-ijy 



Sizes from i pt. to 
3 qts.: best of tin. 

DOTER EGG-BEATER. 




The best known. 



CAKE BOXES AND CHESTS 




Made of tin, finely japanned, 
either in box form, or in upright 
chests. 



.lELLY MOULDS 




Seamless molds, of any desired 
size, for jelly, blancmange, etc. 

GEM SIFTER. 




Holds e.xactly i qt. Ko 
sifting flour, meal, etc. 

SPICE BOXES. 




By their use, spices retain 
their original strength. 



FARINA BOILER. 




.■\ variety of sizes.. Indis- 
pensable for making blanc 
mange, cooking oatmeal, 
etc., etc. 

TIN COLANDER. 




For washing or steam- 
ing purposes. 

PIDDING BOILER. 




For steaming puddnig 
and bread. 

SQUASH STRAINER. 




.Made of first-class tin. 
and very desirable. 



WlEi(I^IW[Adl^ ^T., T[III\TY-FIVE X^T}lll(TV-^EVErl, 



XIaTT-erliill, 



l^ass. 



G.E. CURTIS & Co. 

MANUFACTURERS AND JOBB RS OF 

TICKLES. 



1 jr\Jlj/^^ 



T-l(T^ T ^71 C 



■L\l^ Mjt^ f 



Jams, Jellies, Olives, Etc., 

White Wine and Cider Vinegar. 
WEg'F NEPTUNE 3'P., LYNN. M^?^. 

Fine Flavoring Extracts and 



D 



Suiccss ill Fine Cooking can only he attained by the i/se of 
Pure and Nice Flavoring Extracts and Spices. 

Understanding This, I Manufacture a Line of Extra Nice 

UNADULTEEATED EXTRACTS. 

INTENDED EXPRESSLY FOR FINE COOKING, Viz: 

ALMOND, LEMON, ORANGE, 

ROSE, VANILLA, WINTERGREEN. 

My EXTRACT VANILLA is one of the specialties of my establishment, made from 

the Best Quality of VANILLA BEAN, and free from any adulteration 

whatever. My Spices are of the Best Quality, and warranted 

STRICTLY PURE. The List includes— 

Cassia, Cloves, Pimento, Ginger, Mace, &c., &c. 

CHAS. B. EMERSON, The Druggist. 

2 lV[BWimacI^, 1 \ 3 Bridge %\%, - - Haverthill, ^%% 



PROPRIETOR OF EMERSON'S GOLDENSEAL. 



For DYSPEPSIA, /^ T T T^^'u 




DIABETES, 
LUNG TROUBLES, NERVOUS DEBILITY. 

New Waste-Repairing Bread and Gem Flour, 

I^I^EE I^I^O^^^ BIE-A-lSr OI^ ST'^^ieOXI 

IT IS A BRAIN, NERIE. BONE AND MUSCLE-BUILD- 
ING FLOUR, CONTAINING TO THE FULLEST EXTENT 
THE LIFE-GIVING AND NUTRITIVE ELEMENTS OF 
TWO KINDS OF THE BEST WHEAT. 

ADAPTED TO FAMILY USE. 

^ hU ^ 'JTi FARWELL& RHINES, Prop's 

^ WATERTOWN, N. Y. 



JAMSSLt'S 



EVERY LADY 

Married or Single, 
^*x|^^» Housekeeping or Not, 

— ^ U Kyr;- frB ^ M n ^ ■ shoi-li) he acquainted with the itii.ity i>f 

f.^^^,g^ PYLE S 
rEARLlNtPEARLINE 

For washing^ small articles in a basin, cleaning je7i.^elry, hair, combs or 
brushes, removing stains or ink spots, and for dis/i-7ciashing, as roe/las 
for bo&utifying linens. For the bath it is luxurious and healthful. 

It takes the place of soap, is entirely harviless, is universally approved, 
and its value is apparent on trial. 

Sold by all Grocers, but beware of Vile Imitations. 

MANUFACTURKl) ONLY BY 

JAMES PYLE. - - New Yokk. 



IRA K. MESSER, 

41 MAIN STREET, - HAVERHILL, MASS. 

.7 ^ 7^ :^ / 7- 7^ n ,^ 75 7-^ ^ ^ ^ 
^ ^ L^ im' L^ s^ 1^ w/ L»^ w ^ ^ U^ w^ 

Of Every Description. 

Superior Teas and Coffees, Pure Spices, Con- 
diments, Sauces, Onions, Pickles, Limes, Jellies, 
Imported and American Preserves in Plain and 
Fancy Jars, Fresh Fruits in their Season. 

CREAM OF TARTAR. 

• — ^ — • 

Thf Subscriber luoiild respectfully amiouuce to the students of 
this valuable loork that he pays particular attention to the selec- 
tion of the aboi'c-named article, as loell as of the 

BEST AND PUREST BREAD SODA, 

That can be procured. Every lot that is received is subjected to 
a thorough chemical test that proves its purity beyond a doubt. 
Hundreds of the best cooks in this city and 7'icinity are constantly 
lestifyint^ to its superiority over the ordinary article of . commerce. 

THOMAS H. BAILEY, Apothecary. 

No. 23 Merrimack Street, - - Haverhill, Mass. 

M. L. STOVER, 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN 

VEAL ALL THE YEAR ROUND, 

GAME OF ALL KINDS FURNISHED TO ORDER 

Ff e^h \n\\% aqd Ber^rie^ in ttieir^ ^ea^on, a ^peGialti]. 
14 Emerson St., Haverhill, Mass. 



