HINTS AND REMEDIES 

FOR THE TREATMENT OF 

COMMON ACCIDENTS AND DISEASES 

AND 

RULES OF SIMPLE HYGIENE. 



THE TWO PARTS COMPLETE. 



COMPILED BY 

DAWSON W. TURNER, D.C.L. 

LATE HEAD MASTER OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION SCHOOL, LIVERPOOL; 

SOMETIME STUDENT OF WESTMINSTER HOSPITAL 

AND OF CHARING CROSS HOSPITAL. 



REV] r,D, CORRECTED, AND ENLARGED BY TWELVE EMINENT MEDICAL 

M V BELONGING TO DIFFERENT HOSPITALS IN LONDON, AND 

BY ONE RIGHT REV. BISHOP OF THE ESTABLISHED 

CHURCH, FORMERLY SURGEON TO ONE OF THE 

LONDON HOSPITALS AND F.R.C.S. 



WITH NUMEROUS ADDITIONS. 
FROM THE EIGHTH ENGLISH EDITION. 



orfc i 

MACMILLAN AND CO. 
1882 




N.B. For Opinions of the Press see the Extracts from 
11 The Lancet " and " Daily News? etc., etc., at 
the end of this Pamphlet. 



NOTICE TO THE READER. 

FOUR extra pages (10 cents)'of this pamphlet can be 
had separately from the publishers, if desired. These 
additional pages contain information that may be 
peculiarly useful to captains of the Merchant Service, 
whose ships carry no surgeon and to other persons, 
who may, owing to different circumstances, be entirely 
unable to procure the advice of a medical man. 



RULES OF SIMPLE HYGIENE, 

AND 

HINTS AND REMEDIES FOR THE TREATMENT OF 
COMMON ACCIDENTS AND DISEASES. 



PART I. 



RULES OF SIMPLE HYGIENE. 



I. Wash the whole body, once at least in every 
forty-eight hours, either with cold or slightly warmed 
water, and rub thoroughly dry with a very rough towel 

II. Eat your food slowly and chew it well, and sit 
still at least ten minutes after every meal : so may 
you hope to preserve both your teeth and your diges- 
tion. Beware of drinking any very hot fluids : tea 
and coffee should stand till tolerably cool. After 
fatigue and long fasts hot fluids, only not too hot, are 
valuable, and a few mouthfuls, taken, in such cases, 
before beginning to eat, are very proper, especially 
for elderly people. 

III. Turn all your clothes (particularly those which 
you wear next to your skin) inside out before you go 
to bed, and hang them up to air above the level of 
your head ; but not in your bedroom. 

If possible, have two suits of clothes, and wear 
them on alternate days, folding up carefully those 
not in use after they are aired. 

IV. Be sure to secure fresh air in your bedroom 
during the night 

V. If you have no ventilator in the window, or 
ceiling, or roof, or over the door, then leave the 

B 



RULES OF SIMPLE HYGIENE. 



window from half-an-inch to two or three inches open 
during the night. Of course take care that there be 
no strong draught blowing in upon you during the 
night; but anything is better than converting your 
bedroom into a black-hole of Calcutta. Boring four 
or five tolerably large holes, an inch or so in diameter, 
through the bottom of your bedroom door will go a 
long way towards keeping the atmosphere sweet dur- 
ing the night. If you can, provide some means of 
escape for the foul air by a small aperture through 
the ceiling. 

VI. Eschew, if you care for your teeth, all sweets, 
tarts, pastry, and confectionery, and also much sugar. 

VII. Never sit down to breakfast without first 
going out into the open air for at least three or four 
minutes. Make your walk longer or shorter accord- 
ing to your health and strength. 

VIII. Open your bed entirely, lifting the sheet and 
blanket on which you have been lying, so as to let 
the air get underneath ; and leave the window open, 
top and bottom, when you quit your bedroom in the 
morning. 

IX. Do not eat more than four good meals a day ! 
The chances are that you will find your appetite and 
digestion benefited by taking only three, and better 
even only two, hearty meals a day. Most especially 
avoid eating or drinking between meals. 

X. Do not miss any chance of learning to ride, to 
swim, to fence, to play single-stick, to play cricket and 
football, to row and to spar. 

XL Get, if you can, a shower bath, or a plunge 
bath (a cold salt-water bath is best), the first thing in 
the morning, twice or thrice a week. 

XII. Do not plaster down your hair with hog's 



RULES OF SIMPLE HYGIENE. 



lard, falsely called " pomatum," " pomade," or " bear's 
grease ; " the hair is meant to assist in carrying off 
perspiration, and should not be clogged with grease. 
No appreciable mischief results from oiling the hair, 
if you like to do so ; nor does sweet oil do any harm 
to any part of the body, if you like to use it by 
rubbing it into the skin before a fire, but on the con- 
trary good, as it renders the limbs supple and more 
capable of strong muscular exertion. Animal oils are 
better and less drying than vegetable ones, such as 
olive oil and coco-nut oil, for either skin or hair, and 
perhaps marrow oil is the best of all. The best sweet 
salad oil does no harm to any part of the body, but 
on the contrary good. 

XIII. Brush your teeth the last thing every night 
before going to bed, and comb and brush your hair 
the wrong way, or any way but the right way, so as 
to let the air in upon -your head. 

At least rinse out the mouth after every meal ; 
better still, brush your teeth then too. 

XIV. If you have a flesh brush, use it once a day. 
The best time is at night. If not, polish your skin 
with a rough towel before you go to bed. 

XV. If you dine out, avoid drinking more than one 
kind of wine : as a rule, after dinner drink no wine, 
but take instead, half an hour afterwards, a cup of 
good strong black coffee without milk or sugar, except 
perhaps with the smallest bit of this last. Take 
nothing after this the same night, if it be a late dinner 
you have had. 

It is best neither to take your " cafe noir " (small 
cup of black coffee) nor to smoke tobacco till at least 
half an hour after meals. 

XVI. If you are troubled with cold feet at night, 



RULES OF SIMPLE HYGIENE. 



use plenty of friction (or rubbing), before getting into 
bed ; and if that does not answer, then sponge them 
with cold water, and, when drying them, rub the 
toes and ankles upwards, and not downwards. In 
case this plan fails, as it does sometimes, and the feet 
remain still deadly cold, then try putting them in a 
mustard foot-bath before stepping into bed, and put 
on a pair of thick dry woollen socks directly afterwards. 
The socks can be removed as soon as the feet are warm. 

XVII. If you are troubled with costiveness or 
constipation, try taking the best Scotch oatmeal por- 
ridge (only let it be long and thoroughly boiled) 
every other morning for breakfast. Use salt and 
milk, according to taste, and take it, either with or 
without the addition of treacle, as you find it best 
agrees with you. Eat brown bread (that is, bread 
made of whole ground wheat) and butter. 1 

A glass of cold fresh water taken when you first 
get out of bed, followed by a run or walk before 
breakfast, has often an excellent effect in removing 
heartburn, and in moving the bowels gently, particu- 
larly when at sea. Costiveness is a common com- 
plaint of landsmen during a sea-voyage, and a glass 
of cold water taken then, an hour before breakfast, 
frequently saves resorting to the ship's medicine chest. 
In case this does not answer, take one drop of the 
Homoeopathic preparation of mix vomica, night and 
morning, in a wine-glass of water. 

XVIII. Eschew all hot and heavy suppers, unless 
you wish for an attack of nightmare, and avoid all 
suppers, as a rule, unless dinner has been taken early. 

1 For more on this subject read the article " Indigestion, 
or Dyspepsia," in the appendix or second part of this pamphlet, 
p. 84 infra. 



RULES OF SIMPLE HYGIENE. 



A so-called " severe tea " late at night, is usually 
unwholesome. *Never go to bed, if you can help it, 
with an entirely " empty stomach." This is often a 
cause of "insomnia" or sleeplessness, especially in 
elderly persons. By an " empty stomach " I mean, 
when a fast of five or six hours has been observed, 
and the last meal was not a substantial one. A table- 
spoonful of Hollands, or so, in half a tumblerful of 
cold water, is very excellent for old people at bed- 
time, and some plain unleavened biscuit may be 
eaten at the same time. If you are troubled with a 
so-called " sour stomach," orjieartburn at bed-time, or 
are in the habit of grinding your teeth when asleep, 
try eating of a ripe apple, say half or a quarter of one, 
or if you cannot get that, then a bit of stewed French 
apple (sold at the grocers under the name of " dried 
Normandy pippins ") just before going to bed, or a 
stewed prune. Do not get into the habit of taking 
carbonate of soda in water, for heartburn; for its 
constant use may prove very injurious to the stomach. 

XIX. If you have any one ill with fever, or any 
infectious disease in the house, do not visit him the 
first thing in the morning, on an empty stomach ; but 
take a mouthful of good coffee or tea and a crust of 
bread before entering his bedroom. 

XX. If you are troubled with sleeplessness, rise 
early and get a good walk, or better still, a good ride, 
if you can afford to keep a horse, before breakfast ; 
sponge the whole body before going to bed, and rub 
dry with a Turkish towel; use the dumb bells or any 
other gymnastic exercise, and jump into bed warm, 
and banish unpleasant thoughts. Do not smoke 
strong tobacco the last thing at night, and adopt a 
warm red flannel shirt, instead of a cold cotton or 



RULES OF SIMPLE HYGIENE. 



linen one. Scouring the whole body with a flesh- 
brush, just before going to bed, tends greatly to pro- 
duce sleep. [See the article "Insomnia" in the 
second part of this pamphlet, under " Hints and 
Remedies," etc., p. 33 infra."] 

XXI. Look sharp after all drains, middens, privies, 
and cesspools, connected with your house, if you wish 
to keep out infection, or any low fever of the typhoid 
class. Take care to keep them in good repair and 
working order, and flush all sewers and drains now 
and then with oceans of water. In a dry season 
pour a pailful or two of water, with about a quarter 
of a pint of carbolic acid (sold at all chemists as a 
disinfectant) in it, into all your drains and cesspools 
and middens, every other day at least, to take away 
any bad smell. If you cannot get carbolic acid, use 
chloride of lime, Burnett's disinfecting fluid, or some- 
thing of the same sort. Anyway, get rid of foul 
smells in your house somehow. To purify a room, 
pour a wine-glass or so full of vinegar on a pan of 
red-hot cinders, and let the vapour from it fill the 
room ; then open windows and door. As a rule, fill 
your washhand basin with water overnight, against 
next morning, and do not neglect at all times to put 
half a pint or so of water into each chamber utensil 
or night-stool in a bedroom. You cannot be too 
cleanly or airy in a bedroom : banish all carpets, 
and see that no dirty clothes are left under the bed, 
and no slops left unemptied. Keep all dirty clothes- 
bags anywhere you like, only not in a bedroom. 

XXII. How to wash yourself in the morning. 
Fill your basin overnight, and, unless you take a 
plunge-bath or shower-bath, as soon as you rise, 
commence by putting your face deep into the basin ; 



RULES OF SIMPLE HYGIENE. 

open and shut your eyes two or three times, looking 
at the bottom of the basin. Take your sponge full 
of water and sponge neck and back of the head 
Thoroughly. 

I advocate washing the whole head with water. 
Then turn the head on one side, in turns, and fill 
each ear with cold water, shake the head and the 
water will run out. 

Others, medical men of great experience in aural 
surgery say, " Do not pour water, either cold or luke- 
warm, habitually into the ears; the hearing may be 
impaired by the practice as the tympanic membrane 
is most" delicate. The wet end of a towel or silk 
handkerchief is all that is sufficient" For my own 
part I prefer immersing the whole head while wash- 
ing, and letting water run into both ears while the 
head is in the basin ; or else after washing or spong- 
ing the face and eyes, if the basin be not big enough 
and deep enough to admit the whole head beneath 
water, then by turning the head first on one side and 
then on the other in the basin to admit the water in 
the ears, which comes to much the same thing; but 
is not quite so refreshing. 

Then sponge the chest and small of the back and 
underneath the armpits ; this is the least you ought 
to do. (I advocate sponging the whole body, and 
that both night and morning.) The very least you 
can do, with any attention to cleanliness or health, is 
to sponge face, chest, and back with water, and dry 
rub the rest of the body every morning, if not even- 
ing. After seeing the numerous cases of great mis- 
chief and suffering brought about by dirt, per se, dirt, 
among the out-patients of a hospital, it is impossible 
to impress too strongly the wisdom of thoroughly 



RULES OF SIMPLE HYGIENE. 



washing, at least once, better say twice, a day, the feet, 
the armpits, and those particular parts of the body 
that common sense will tell you in especial require it. 
So may you avoid, in all probability, odious and pain- 
ful swellings of the glands, and entirely escape that 
distressing and painful malady, piles. Eschew the 
ridiculous practice of standing half naked, soaking 
and washing your hands for half an hour, the sole 
notion a boy has of washing himself. If you use a 
tooth-brush night and morning, as you should do, it 
cannot be too soft. Hard brushes make the gums 
flee from the teeth, and produce premature decay by 
causing the soft bone of the tooth to be exposed to 
the air, beyond the part of the tooth protected by the 
enamel. 1 

For a thorough wash of the hands, use warm water ; 
let it be rain, not hard or spring water ; and before 
you begin soaping them, steep them well in the water 
for a minute or two, rubbing them the while, till the 
water has penetrated well into the pores ; then use 
soap, and a nail-brush ad libitum. End by holding 
your hands under a tap, if you have one, of cold 
water, and " give them a shower-bath," so to say : it 
is very refreshing and strengthening to the fingers. 
If you have no tap, just dip them into cold water 
and rub them dry as quick as you can. Miss 
Nightingale, in her most useful Notes upon Nursing, 
recommends as even more effectual, holding them 
for a few minutes over a jug of hot water, so as to 
let the steam thoroughly penetrate the seams and 
pores of the skin before commencing to soap them. 
But this requires time. 

1 See the article " Care of the Teeth" in the second part or 
appendix to this pamphlet, p. 59 infra. ' 



RULES OF SIMPLE HYGIENE. 



XXIII. If you possibly can, get that most 
cleansing thing, a hot bath, once a week ; use plenty 
of soap, with a flannel, over the whole body, and 
scour with a pretty hard bath-brush ; then soak for a 
few minutes afterwards, and come out " as clean as a 
new shilling." 

XXIV. Finally, do your best to keep a clear 
conscience, an even temper, a light heart, and a 
good digestion ; and read and believe in Miss 
Nightingale's Notes upon Nursing (the cheap and en- 
larged edition), and a very amusing and instructive 
little volume called, How to make Home Unhealthy, 
published by Messrs. Chapmaii and Hall. 



PART II. 

HINTS AND REMEDIES FOR THE TREAT- 
MENT OF COMMON ACCIDENTS AND 
DISEASES. 

f 

i. Bad Leg". What to do in case no Doctor can 
be had. Cleanse the place well by fomenting with 
warm water ; then try simple water dressing that 
is, plaqfr a piece of lint, double or treble, full of water, 
on the place, and keep it constantly wet ; .covering it 
at night with a piece of gutta-percha, oil-silk, or flannel, 
to keep the moisture in. In case the sore gets no 
better, employ Goulard lotion (that is, a drachm of 
sugar of lead dissolved in a pint of soft warm water) ; 
apply it warm instead of simple water; and if this 
does not seem to do good within two or three days, 
then try zinc ointment. In case of none of these 
remedies answering, then wash the sore with a weak 
solution of carbolic acid, one part of the acid to forty 
of water, and keep it covered up with lint dipped in 
the same. Keep perfectly quiet, and lay the leg up 
on a chair; avoid standing on the affected leg, or 
using it more than you can help ; avoid all spirituous 
liquors. When the sore begins to granulate, stimulate 
it with a weak wash of whisky and water. As very 
many cases of " bad leg " arise from swelling of the 



BED-SORES. II 



veins and smaller vessels, apply a bandage carefully 
from the toes to the knee, in order to support the 
vessels. In case the sore is syphilitic in its origin, 
use black wash instead of water, and take ten grains 
of iodide of potassium three times a day in a little 
water, or peppermint water. 

2. Bed-sores. To PREVENT BED-SORES. Wash 
the parts thoroughly night and morning, using plenty 
of yellow soap, then dab with brandy or any other 
spirit. 

If a bed-sore should come, dress with lard : make 
a pad of six or eight folds of lint, with a hole cut in 
the centre. Fasten this on x with sticking plaster, 
being careful to put the hole in the pad exactly 
over the sore, to prevent pressure. 1 N.B. Put no 
blanket underneath the patient. 

3. Bite of a Venomous Serpent. Suck the 
wound immediately, if you can, yourself; if not, get 
a friend to do so (it can be done without danger, 
if there be no abrasure scratch, that is or sore on 
the tongue or lips), and then tie a string, if possible, 
tightly, round the part, finger or limb, that has been 
bitten, between the wound and the body : wash well 
with warm water, and apply liquor ammonias diluted 
to the wound, and take fifteen to twenty drops in a 
wine-glass of water internally ^ every three or four 
hours ; keep the patient from going to sleep. 

4. Bite from a Dog suspected to be Mad. 
Soak immediately in, and wash with, water as hot as 
you can bear it ; then apply salt to it freely, and 
send for a doctor to cut out the part, if practicable, 
or to burn it with lunar caustic, and if you cannot 

1 See for more, the article on this subject, in the second part 
or appendix to this pamphlet, p. 74 infra. 



12 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

get one, do it yourself, only do not overdo it. If 
you have no lunar caustic at hand, use a good strong 
solution of carbolic acid to the place. Take a 
Turkish bath at once, if possible : it is one more 
chance in your favour. 

In all cases, if possible, send for a medical man, 
but if one cannot be had, the above remedies are 
applicable. 

N.B. The wound may be sucked with impunity, 
either by the person himself who is bitten, or by a 
friend for him, if he has no abrasion, that is, scratch, 
or sore place, or sore on his mouth, or lips. Do not 
cauterise the wound yourself, if you can help it \ leave 
that to a medical man, if one can possibly be got 
within a short time. Sad results have been, known 
to occur from unskilful cauterisation. 

A bite from a dog not mad, gives rise to great 
inflammation : linseed poultice, sprinkled with from 
fifteen to twenty drops of laudanum, is the best 
application for this : it may be continued about a 
week. 

5. Bleeding at the Nose. Lay the patient 
immediately at his full length on the floor, or on a 
table, or on a bench, and stretch out his arms behind 
his head, to their full length, on a level with his body; 
unloose the collar, and apply wet towels to the back 
of his neck. I have always found this posture, that 
is, laying the patient flat on his back, answer best ; 
but many excellent doctors do not consider the 
posture of the body of importance, and as sitting or 
reclining back in an arm-chair is more convenient 
and less fussy, it will probably be sufficient to place 
the arms in a vertical position, that is, straight up 
above the head. If the bleeding continue obstinate. 



BLOOD-VESSEL, BROKEN. 13 

use ice if you can get it, instead of water, and put a 
plug of lint in the nostril, steeped in a strong solution 
of alum and water. If you can get it, snuff up the 
nose a solution of gallic acid, or better still of tannic 
acid, or even inject it up the nose. It is the most 
powerful astringent of all. For a child's nose when 
bleeding, a large cold door key laid behind the neck 
and between the shoulders, will often suffice, com- 
pressing at the same time the nostril with the finger 
firmly for a few minutes. When the above treatment 
fails, snuff up a few drops of tincture of saffron (crocus 
sativus) in a little water. This is almost sure to 
answer. 

6. Blood- Vessel, Broken. Imprimis, send for 
a doctor, but if one cannot be got, give from ten to 
fifteen drops of elixir of vitriol with ten drops of 
laudanum in a wine-glass of water, every three or four 
hours. Until you can get advice, let the patient sip 
at vinegar and cold water mixed, or better, at a 
strong solution of alum and cold water. Indeed, if 
you cannot get any elixir of vitriol at once, give the 
patient a wine-glassful of alum and water every two 
hours or oftener, till the bleeding is checked, and 
feed him on slops, beef-tea, chicken broth, and claret 
and water. Keep him most especially quiet. Another 
authority, a medical man of great distinction says, 
"For broken blood-vessel give ten drops of ipeca- 
cuanha wine every half-hour, in a little water." 

7. Boils and Carbuncles, Remedy for. Take 
a vapour bath immediately if obtainable ; and at night 
and morning take a tea-spoonful, or somewhat more, 
of common yeast in a wine-glassful of tea or of 
water. Dress the boils with soft-soap if you can get 
it, if not, with common soap and sugar, mixed tho- 



14 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

roughly with the blade of a knife, and worked into a 
thick paste on a piece of lint. Cut a small flap in 
the centre of the piece of lint, so as to let the matter 
exude, and put an additional small piece over the 
orifice. For boils, other excellent authorities prefer 
giving liquor potassae in small doses, ten, fifteen, or 
twenty drops, in a wine-glass of water, twice a day, 
and afterwards quinine, about four or five grains daily, 
or twice a day, in a wine-glass of water ; but I have 
never found the vapour bath, combined with the 
yeast treatment, told me by one of the most eminent 
medical men living, fail. For true carbuncles, send 
for medical advice, if possible. They are dreadfully 
painful and even dangerous. Some medical men 
strongly recommend the following treatment : Take 
three drops of tincture of arnica every four hours. 

8. Bruises. TREATMENT. Use warm fomenta- 
tions, flannel dipped in warm water laid over the 
part, or a bread -and -water poultice. If very severe 
or near a joint, put on leeches. If near the knee, 
keep perfectly quiet, and do not attempt to walk. 
Keep on fomenting or poulticing till the swelling 
goes down and the pain be gone. Some prefer rags 
dipped in Goulard lotion (that is, one drachm of 
Goulard's Extract to six ounces of soft water) to the 
warm fomentations. Other medical men of great 
experience strongly recommend a lotion of tincture 
of arnica and water ; one part arnica to ten of water. 
Keep the patient quite quiet. 

9. Burns and Scalds. Cover the place over, 
at once, with the preparation of chalk, called common 
kitchen whitening, mixed, either with sweet oil or with 
water the oil is preferable into a thick paste. 
Plaster it gently on with a brush or a feather about 



CHILBLAINS. 



an eighth of an inch, or more, thick ; taking care, if 
possible, not to break the blister or blisters. Then 
cover the part affected with a piece of flannel, to 
keep the moisture in, and damp the layer of whiten- 
ing from time to time with oil or water. I have 
found this treatment, even in very bad cases, act 
like a charm, and quell the dreadful pain at once. 
If kitchen whitening cannot be procured, use flour 
instead ; and if neither can be had, then cover the 
scalds or burns with bits of rag dipped in sweet oil, 
and lay plenty of cotton wool outside them. Change 
the dressings only often enough to keep the places 
clean, and then wash them off' with a weak solution 
of carbolic acid. Keep up the patient's strength 
with good diet. A mild opiate, thirty to fifty .drops 
of Battley's sedative, or, if not at hand, of laudanum, 
may be given at night. In case of large blisters 
forming, let them cleverly out with a needle, and 
dress with the kitchen whitening, or flour, as above. 
Others say, " For burns and scalds apply warm spirits 
by rag, if the burning pain be very great." 1 

i o. Chilblains. Wear worsted, not cotton, socks, 
or stockings, and change them often. Rub the parts 
affected with soap liniment and tincture of iodine 
mixed, in the proportion of 6 of soap liniment to 2 of 
tincture of iodine, every night. This is the recipe of 
one of the leading medical men of the day. Another, 
an M.D. of great experience, recommends a foot-bath, 
with a little mustard in the water, at bed-time, as a good 

1 A liniment has lately come into use in some of our great 
hospitals, called " Harris' Patent Compound Mixture for Scalds 
and Burns. " I have used this myself, and found it very efficacious. 
Soak a piece of lint in this mixture, lay it on the burn or scald 
with the thread side next the part affected, and let it remain on 
for three days. A thin skin will probably then be formed. 






16 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

remedy. Other authorities recommend mustard lini- 
ment. 

ii. Cholera. In case no doctor can be had, 
perhaps the best treatment is as follows. Give a dose 
of castor oil, or a strong dose of tincture of rhubarb, 
a wine-glassful in a tumbler of hot water with five 
drops of laudanum, to begin with. When the open- 
ing medicine has operated, give from fifteen to 
twenty drops of chlorodyne in a wine-glassful of water, 
every two hours, and a one-grain opium pill between 
the doses of chlorodyne. Keep the patient as warm 
in bed or in his berth as possible ; wrap the stomach 
round with hot flannel, put a hot bottle outside the 
flannel, on the pit of the stomach, and if he seems 
likely to die from exhaustion, give half a wine-glass- 
ful of brandy with twenty drops of essence of pepper- 
mint, and some powdered capsicum (red pepper) 
heads, if you can get them. 

N B. Directly he has swallowed the castor oil or 
tincture of rhubarb, give him a bit of fresh lemon 
peel to set his teeth into, to take away the nauseous 
taste, and prevent his probably throwing the medicine 
up again. Give no medicines or stimulants in the 
collapsed condition, but plenty of blankets, rub the 
body with finely-powdered ginger, and cold water to 
drink ad libitum. 

As the treatment of cholera is still an unsettled 
question in the profession, and as this disease 
generally commences with simple diarrhoea, it can- 
not be too strongly impressed upon all who are likely 
to be thrown into its way, immediately to attend to the 
looseness of the bowels, which is a premonitory 
symptom of it. For this, after a small dose of open- 
ing medicine, take diarrhoea mixture, that is, a table- 



COLD. 17 



12. 



iea-i 

pro( 
brin 
Tur 



1 8 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

a quack remedy. The common sense of the second 
remedy speaks for itself. 1 [Another remedy whose 
value is as yet unknown to the majority of the 
medical profession for colds, viz. aconite, either in 
tincture or pilules, one every four hours, often pro- 
duces an excellent effect ; and gives relief as soon as, 
or sooner than, anything else.] 

13. Corns, Bad. In the first place avoid wear- 
ing tight shoes ; then you will also avoid all corns 
but should they come, use warm water and soft-soap 
to them, and rub them with a rough towel. In case 
one should be extremely painful, put a small poultice 
on it during the night, and during the day cover the 
place with a small piece of linen rubbed with hog's 
lard ; or, better still, with glycerine ; the " fit of 
corns" will anyway thus be relieved till the next 
time. Of course corns may be safely pared with a 
penknife, if care be taken ; and this will considerably 
diminish the pain they cause. Mind, however, what 
you are about, if you cut them yourself. Bad acci- 
dents have been known to occur from cutting too 
deeply. The safest plan is to pick off the head of 
the corn with the nail of your finger and thumb. 

14. Cough. Hard to prescribe for, as arising 
from different causes. For common cough, mustard 
poultice on the chest, 2 ten to fifteen drops of paregoric 
in a little water, or five drops of chlorodyne, or a 
spoonful of glycerine in a wine-glass of water, and 

1 For more on this subject see the article "Catarrh, or 
Gold," in the second part or appendix to this pamphlet, p. 76 
infra. 

2 Instead of a mustard poultice, or " mustard leaves," the 
admirable liniment, known as Terebinthum Aceticum, has lately 
come into extensive use in our hospitals in cases of cough, 
bronchitis, and so forth. Take equal parts, camphor liniment, 



CRAMP. 19 



stick a bit of liquorice in your mouth. For a stomach 
cough, if you can tell the difference, take a dose of 
Gregory's powder. For consumptive cough, wear chest 
protector alwaysand a respirator when you go out, 
and sip at lemonade, or, better still, sulphuric acid 
drink, such as one gives for painters' colic. Put a 
chlorodyne lozenge in your mouth, and then hope for 
the best ; and if you have real genuine consumption, 
go to Australia or New Zealand, and stop there. 

15. Cramp. TREATMENT. Put the patient at 
once into a hot bath, if possible ; and if not, sponge 
all over in water as hot as he can bear it. Unclasp 
his hands, if much contracted. , Put smelling bottle 
to his nose, and give weak brandy and water, or some 
stimulant, and put to bed, and warm the bed, if there 
is such a thing as a warming-pan in the house. If 
the cramp is only local, that is, affects only one limb, 
such as the arm or leg, use plenty of friction and 
extension of the muscles under spasm. 

1 6. Croup. This is a disease affecting children, 
most commonly between the ages of two and ten. 
It is so dangerous, and, alas ! in too many cases, so 
rapidly fatal, that its name is justly a word of terror 
to mothers. It requires the most prompt treatment : 
not a moment should be lost in calling in a doctor, 
if that be at all possible. 

How are you to know that your child has croup ? 
It is important that you should neither be needlessly 

spirits of turpentine, and acetic acid, mix, and shake the bottle 
well before using. A few drops, applied by the palm of the 
hand to that part of the chest where the cough is most felt, and 
gently rubbed in, night and morning, will greatly ease and 
relieve the cough, if not entirely remove it. I have used it 
repeatedly, both on myself and other patients, with very happy 
results. 



20 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

alarmed, nor, on the other hand, too late in recog- 
nising the danger. The disease comes on with more 
or less suddenness, very often in the night, after that 
the child has gone to bed apparently quite well; 
perhaps for a day or two before, some slight hoarse- 
ness or cough may have been noticed. The symp- 
toms are feverishness, with difficulty of breathing and 
alteration in the voice, and cough. The breathing is 
laboured and long-drawn, not simply hurried, as it is 
in inflammation of the lungs. You will observe that 
the child is breathing as if the opening of the wind- 
pipe were smaller, and that the air, in being drawn 
through a narrowed chink, gives rise to a peculiar 
whistling sound. If you look at the pit of the 
stomach, you will see that every time the breath is 
drawn there is a deep sinking in. This last is a most 
dangerous symptom. 

In many cases there will be a loud clanging sort of 
cough, which, when once heard, will never be forgotten. 

After a time, or it may be very soon, the difficulty in 
breathing will become so great that the child will look 
in danger of being suffocated. It is a most pitiable 
sight to see a child in this condition, looking so terrified, 
restlessly tossing about, and clutching at his throat. 

What can you do for a child in this condition ? 
Of course, you will send for a doctor if you have any 
sense and can afford one. Any doctor will probably 
come at once, even " without pay," as the case is a 
matter of a few minutes, or a quarter of an hour only, \. 
and most English doctors are very humane men; j 
but, as it may be some time before he can get to you, 2 
you ought to know what you can do with some hope 
of giving relief. There are a few simple measures 
which in some. cases will prove very effectual. Put 




CROUP. 21 



the child into a hot bath, as hot as can be borne by 
" the mother's thermometer," that is, the elbow, for 
about five minutes, then take him out and wrap him in 
a blanket, keep applying sponges wrung out in water, 
as hot as can be borne, to the throat. If a sort of 
tent can be made around the bed, and steam passed 
in from a kettle, much relief will often be afforded. 
The temperature of the steamy atmosphere should not 
be below 65, or over 70, of Fahrenheit's thermometer. 

If these measures should not have done any good, 
give the child an emetic. In fact, even if they have, 
you had better, in any case v give the emetic ; it can 
do no harm, and may do a deal of good. The best 
to use would be one or two tea-spoonfuls of ipe- 
cacuanha wine, or, better still, from five to ten grains 
of powdered ipecacuanha, mixed with a little warm 
water ; and go on giving plenty of lukewarm water 
till the emetic acts. 

It may comfort you to know, that some of the 
cases that begin most suddenly, and that seem the 
worst, are those which are most hopeful. 

False Croup, or Spasmodic Croup, or Child Crowing. 
This is a disease to which young children, especially 
those who are rickety, during the first two years of 
life, are subject. It presents some resemblance to 
true croup, but is easily distinguished from it. In 
true croup there is a continued and increasing difficulty 
in breathing. In spasmodic croup there is only a 
temporary difficulty, lasting for but a few seconds. 
The attacks usually recur frequently, and there is no 
fever. The child, very probably after having swal- 
lowed, is suddenly seized with an inability to draw in 
his breath ; for a few moments it seems as if he were 
going to be suffocated, and he may even turn " black 



22 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

in the face," but presently the spasm passes off, and 
the breath is drawn in with a loud crowing sound, 
and soon the child is " all right " again. 

Many young children die suddenly in these attacks, 
and therefore any child liable to them ought to be 
most carefully and constantly watched. 

The most effectual remedy is very simple. During 
the attack, dash cold water on the face, neck, and 
chest. To diminish the liability to the attack, plunge 
the child, every day, for an instant into cold water, 
and quickly rub him dry. If you are afraid to begin 
by plunging the child into the water, you may sponge 
him all over, once a day, with cold water, with a dash 
of salt in it. Give cod-liver oil, half to a teaspoonful, 
twice a day, to any child that thus suffers. 

17. Cuts and Wounds. i. If the sides of the 
wound be clean-cut, and not jagged or torn, after 
bathing with cold water to stop the bleeding, bring 
the edges neatly together and keep them close by 
strips of adhesive plaster laid over the wound, with 
little intervals between them. You may use a fine 
needle and thread instead, passed through the sides 
of the wound, if you know how to do it properly. 
Place a pledget of wet lint over the orifice of the 
wound, and if there be much bleeding, dip the lint 
in a saturated solution of gallic acid, i.e. two or three 
scruples of the acid to eight ounces of soft water. 
2. If the wound be much jagged and torn, it is no use 
trying to bring the sides close together by strapping or 
plaster. Put a bread-and-water poultice on, or else lint 
dipped in cold water, or in a weak solution of carbolic 
acid. Poulticing or warm fomentations will keep the 
inflammation down; when this is subsided, water dress- 
ing, warm perhaps is best, will heal the wound. 



CUTS AND WOUNDS. 23 

Other medical men strongly recommend treating 
injuries from falls, blows, or contused wounds, with 
arnica lotion : twenty drops of the tincture of arnica 
to half a pint of soft water : should the skin be broken 
or cut, the lotion to be half this strength. 

In case the bleeding be very great (N.B. The blood 
from an artery is bright red, the blood from a vein is 
dark and purplish), act as follows, till you can get 
medical aid : If it be only a vein that is wounded 
(judge by the colour of the blood and its coming out 
in a continuous spirt), then put a doubled bit of lint 
over the wound and bandage it firmly, using the 
solution of gallic acid, if you can get it, to dip the 
lint in. If it be an artery wounded (judge by the 
colour of the blood and its coming on jerking), then 
tie a scarf or handkerchief tight round above the wound, 
that is, between the wound and the body (if it be on 
the leg or arm), and tighten it cleverly, taking care 
not to bruise the limb, by what is called a stick 
tourniquet That is, after tying the bandage round 
the limb firmly and tightly, insert a nice bit of strong, 
round, smooth stick (a ruler or small walking-stick 
will do, or even a strong penholder), beneath the 
bandage or handkerchief, between it and the skin, 
and twist it till it screws the bandage tight enough to 
prevent the blood flowing. Of course meanwhile 
you may employ your own or a friend's thumb or 
finger to put a strong pressure just above the wound, 
finding out if you can where the artery is, and press- 
ing on it, till you get the bleeding stopped, and then 
put a neat pad on the wound and bandage it fairly 
tight or fix it with plaster. N.B. Make your pad 
about an inch thick, of layers of lint of different sizes, 
the smallest bit of it to go next the wound, and the 



HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 



other bits of the pad larger and larger over it in pro- 
portion till the necessary thickness is attained. Wipe 
the blood out from the wound carefully before you 
put the pad on, and if the wound be in the leg make 
the patient lie down at once. Apgly all the cold you 
can to the neighbouring parts ; ice if you can get it ; 
if not, cold water. Water dressing, that is, lint satu- 
rated with cold water, and perfect quiet will probably 
do the rest, when the bleeding is stopped. 

N.B. Absolute rest is necessary in all cases of 
wounds and bruises ; especially when they are in the 
trunk or near a large joint. 

1 8. Diarrhoea. Do not try to stifle it immedi- 
ately with chalk -mixture, opium pills, or any of the 
common diarrhoea medicines, but give first a small 
dose of castor oil or tincture of rhubarb, or Gregory's 
powder, and wait till it has operated : taking care to 
keep the patient, if possible, perfectly quiet, and on 
his back. In case there is much pain, you may put 
five drops of laudanum into the dose of tincture of 
rhubarb. If the diarrhoea still continues after the 
medicine has operated, and you cannot get a doctor, 
then give, according to age and strength, five, ten, or 
fifteen drops of chlorodyne in a wine-glass of water, 
every two hours ; and if that does not answer, then 
a half grain or one grain opium pill every two hours, 
or a wine-glass of water with fifteen to twenty drops 
of laudanum, and a little essence of peppermint and 
powdered ginger. Feed the patient with dry toast, 
tea without milk, rice-pudding and arrowroot ; allow 
no meat and no vegetables, and keep him quiet in 
his berth ; a warm bed is best of all. If you keep 
on your legs, or moving much about, you may have 
a very bad time of it. A rice diet is very advisable. 



DIPHTHERIA. 25 



A very able medical man tells me that he finds 
the following treatment to answer admirably : Com- 
mence with a mild dose of some opening medicine 
or other, and then give ten drops of diluted sulphuric 
acid three times a day in a little water. For common 
cases, not violent, of diarrhoea, I have found, myself, 
the homoeopathic treatment of camphor pills, one or 
two every quarter of an hour or so, work extremely 
well. 

19. Diphtheria. If no doctor can be had, use 
" tea-spoonful doses " of a mixture made by adding 
two drops of "liquor ammonia fortiss" (caustic 
ammonia) to an ounce of distilled water; give it 
every half- hour. For Malignant Sore Throat of 
Scarlatina give, as a drink, a mixture made by 
adding hydrochloric acid to pure water, until the 
mixture is pleasantly acid. Continue it, as desired 
by the patient, until the sore throat fs better. (Com- 
municated to me by Dr. Thomas, of the Hydropathic 
Establishment of Llandudno.) 

20. Dislocation of the Shoulder. If no 
doctor can be had, place the patient flat on his back 
upon a low bed, and sitting by his side, facing him, 
place your heel in his armpit, and firmly grasping 
his arm at the elbow, pull steadily and continuously, 
without jerking, in a direction towards yourself and 
across the patient's body. By this means you form 
a lever of the first kind, of which the dislocation is 
the force to be overcome, and your heel the fulcrum. 

21. Dislocation of the Elbow. The patient 
being seated in a chair, place the point of your knee 
in the bend of his elbow, pressing it firmly against 
the lower part of the arm and not the forearm ; grasp 
the forearm firmly with both hands and pull in a 



26 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

direction towards yourself. The dislocation in both 
cases will be known to be overcome by a sudden and 
peculiar jerk felt by the operator and by the joint 
assuming its proper shape. 

22. Drowning. GENERAL DIRECTIONS. Strip 
the patient immediately, and wipe him quite dry, 
cleaning mouth and nostrils carefully ; cover him 
with hot cloths, and place him for a short time in a 
bed or on the ground, with his face downwards and 
one of his arms under his forehead, to assist the 
escape of the water from his mouth and the leaving 
the windpipe free by letting the tongue fall forward : 
then rub with hot flannels or cloths, place hot bottles 
under the armpits, the calves of the legs, and beneath 
the feet ; tickle the nostrils with a feather to excite 
breathing, and do not give up rubbing the body for 
at least four hours ; hartshorn, or snuff, or smelling 
salts may be put to the nose to help to excite breath- 
ing. If there be no signs of breathing, and you 
cannot excite it by tickling the nostril with a feather, 
try the following plan, Dr. Silvester's : " Stand behind 
the head, take the two arms, draw them sharply up 
above the head, so as to put the muscles on the 
stretch and draw the ribs apart. Then press down 
the elbows against the sides, thus making air enter 
and again come out, and so imitating the natural 
process of breathing. Take your time about this, 
and do it slowly and steadily, about fifteen or twenty 
times in the minute." Keep on meanwhile rubbing 
the body with hot towels, and now and then dash a 
glass of cold water on the face and chest, and rub 
dry again directly with a warm cloth. (For more, 
see the Directions of the Humane Society^ or of the 
National Lifeboat Institution.} 



DYSENTERY. 27 



23. Dysentery. This is a complaint not to be 
trifled with ; if possible procure the best medical 
advice within reach. Faute de mieux, in the first 
place keep the patient quite quiet, in bed, if possible, 
warm, and give a mild purgative, such as a tea-spoon- 
ful of castor oil, or half of a wine-glass of tincture of 
rhubarb in half a tumbler of hot water ; it is not at 
all an object in acute dysentery to check the purging 
at first : the "stuff" cast off must come away; why 
therefore stick it up in the bowels ? When the purga- 
tive has operated, any comforting, soothing opiate at 
hand, such as fifteen to twenty drops of Battley's 
sedative, or, if this is not to be had, fifteen to twenty 
drops of laudanum in a wine-glass of water every hour 
or so. Absolute rest, warmth, and the use of draw- 
sheets, if they can be procured, instead of the night- 
stool, are most important ; feed the patient on baked 
or boiled flour, if you can get it, prepared in the 
following manner : Fill an earthen jar or preserve 
pot with flour, ram it down tight, cover it with a bit 
of bladder or canvas, put it inside a pan of water, or 
into an oven, and boil it or bake it till it is quite hard. 
When cold cut a bit out with a knife, as big as the 
end of your thumb or so, pound it, mix with hot 
water till as thick as paste or thicker, flavour with a 
little cinnamon, ginger, or peppermint, and let the 
patient eat as much as he likes of it. It is soothing, 
comforting, and nourishing to the stomach, and goes 
a long way towards quieting the horrid flux. (I have 
used it several times with excellent effect.) Give the 
patient strong cold tea to drink, best perhaps without 
milk and sugar. If fresh milk can be procured, there 
is no objection to its use, and if at sea, not ship's 
biscuit, but soft bread no fruit, no vegetables, and 



28 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

above all no spirits or beer. 1 For a very bad and 
obstinate case at sea, where no doctor is to be had, 
I have known the following prescription used, and 
answer excellently for an adult. Fifteen drops of 
turpentine, half an ounce of castor oil, fifteen drops 
of laudanum, and half an ounce of best olive oil. 
Take at night. For a very bad and rapid case 
which threatens under a blazing sun soon to make an 
end of poor Jack, some recommend bleeding ; but 
by the best authorities this is considered not only un- 
necessary, but decidedly bad practice in such diseases. 

24. Earache. In any case apply some warm 
poultice, such as bran or bread. If there be any 
discharge from the ear, wash it with warm water and 
keep it clean. Some recommend a few drops of 
warm sweet oil to be poured in the ear ; but in no 
case commit the common blunder of stuffing the ear 
with cotton Wool Not a bad substitute for a poultice, 
and often efficacious, is a baked or boiled onion, or a 
roast potato. Take a small dose of opening medicine. 
If the patient must go out and be exposed to the open 
air, then it is better to put a little soft cotton wool in 
the lap of the ear than to wear no protection. 

25. Fainting. Put the patient immediately in a 
chair, and make him sit down, and bend his head low 
between his knees, until the head be brought pretty well 
on a level with the lower part of the stomach : by these 
means (the feeling of) faintness will at once pass off. 

1 For mild cases, five grains of Dover's powder, to which 
add two grains of Ipec., thrice a day, or a half-grain opium 
pill, as often, would probably be sufficient. Keeping in bed, 
hot fomentations on the abdomen, absolute quiet, and the use 
of draw-sheets, will do the rest. Don't forget to wear what is 
called a cholera belt, or, if you can't get that, a broad strip of 
flannel, passed twice or thrice round the pit of the stomach. 






FITS. 29 

N.B. I have never found this method fail ; but 
many excellent doctors prefer laying the patient flat 
on the floor, or on a table, with his head as low, or 
even lower than his body and feet. 

26. Fits. If you are present when a person is 
first taken with a fit, put, if you can get one, a bottle 
of smelling salts to his nose, and perhaps you may 
ward the fit off. If not, immediately unfasten the 
neckcloth, unbutton the waistcoat, and loosen the 
braces. Give all the fresh air possible, take the shoes 
off, and bathe the forehead with cold water; then 
put a piece of soft wood, *>r something to save the 
tongue being bitten, between the teeth ; a cork even 
will do. Then, if possible, put a strong mustard 
poultice on the back of the neck, and put the feet 
into hot water. 

Undress and put the patient into bed as soon as 
possible ; let him sleep six, eight, or ten hours. Do 
not attempt to grasp his limbs tight, or hold them 
tight while he is in convulsions, as he will only bruise 
himself. Restrain, but do not violently oppose, the 
struggles. For cases of this kind give the simplest 
and lightest diet : beef-tea, rice, milk, tea and toast, 
chicken-broth, etc. ; and be very careful to let no one 
subject to fits overload his stomach, or otherwise play 
the fool with himself. 

N.B. Every one, either man or woman, subject to 
epileptic fits, ought to live temperately and chastely, 
never to touch strong drinks, and to avoid all danger- 
ous places, such as the house-tops, the neighbour- 
hood of pits, and the like. Change of air, scene, and 
occupation, a voyage at sea, and when the patient can 
bear it, a shower-bath in the morning, may do a good 
deal towards effecting an entire cure. 



30 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

27. Fractures or Broken Bones. SYMP- 
TOMS. The patient is unable to use his limb ; there 
is more or less distortion and shortening ; and upon 
firmly grasping the two ends of the bone and moving 
them slightly, a peculiar grating or " crepitus " is felt. 
Till the doctor comes, if one can be had soon, content 
yourself with placing the broken limb in as comfort' 
able a position as possible, the patient being put on a 
hard bed of course ; the leg or thigh rests most easily 
on the outer side with the knee bent; the arm, whether 
fractured above or below the elbow, rests most easily 
when laid on a pillow, half bent 

TREATMENT. Thigh Bone. What to do if a doctor 
cannot be had. Lay the patient flat on his back on 
a hard bed and tie a weight, weighing from four to 
seven pounds for an adult, to the foot of the injured 
limb, and allow it to hang over the end of the bed ; 
place a bag filled with sand on either side of the thigh 
to support it, and bandage the limb and bags together. 
The bag should be the length of the thigh and the 
thickness of the calf of the leg. 

Bones of the Leg. Take a small blanket and fold 
it till it is about two feet long by one and a half 
broad, and about two or three inches in thickness ; 
lay the injured limb on this, and having made steady 
traction on the foot until the limb is the same length 
as the sound one, strap the blanket tightly around the 
limb with two straps, one at the ankle, the other at the 
knee. 

Bones of the Arm. Obtain some thin pieces of 
wood, from two and a half to three inches in width, 
and the length of the fractured bone. (The sides 
and lid of a cigar box answer admirably.) Pad them 
with cotton wool or tow, and bind them tightly around 



FROST-BITE. 31 



the arm, having first pulled the fractured ends of 
bone as nearly into position as possible. In fractures 
of the forearm two splints, one on the back the other 
on the front, are sufficient ; in the arm, four splints 
must be used ; the hand only, and not the whole 
arm, to be put into a sling : the weight of the elbow 
then pulls the broken bone down and keeps it in 
position. 

The splints must be kept on the arm for a month, 
on the leg six weeks. 

Broketi ribs. Swathe the chest tightly in a jack- 
towel, and fix firmly by sewing. 

28. Frost-bite. Take great care not to bring the 
patient into a warm room or near a fire ; or the most 
dreadful consequences may ensue, such as the loss 
of a limb, mortification, and so on. Rub the part 
affected with snow in a cold room, and then bathe 
with ice-cold water, or lay bits of linen on the part 
soaked in ice-cold water. Let the circulation be 
slowly restored. After a time give a little weak cold 
brandy and water. 

29. Gout. If you can get no medical man, act 
as follows : Begin with a smart calomel and colocynth 
pill for a purge. Then mix six grains of rhubarb 
powder with half a drachm of carbonate of soda, or, 
as some authorities say, with half a drachm of car- 
bonate of magnesia, dissolve in a little water, and 
take it three times a day, and go on for a week. If 
the part be red and inflamed, use poppy-head fomen- 
tations, and lay carded cotton on it. 

N.B. Avoid malt liquors during the attacks, and 
if prone to gout, employ them at all times sparingly. 1 

1 For more on this subject see the article "Gout," in the 
second part or appendix to this pamphlet, p. 82 infra. 



32 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

30. Infectious Diseases, COMMON PRECAU- 
TIONS TO BE ATTENDED TO AGAINST, WHEN THEY 
UNFORTUNATELY HAPPEN TO BE PREVALENT. First 

and foremost attend most carejully to personal clean- 
liness. Wash all over at least once a day ; better 
still with cold water every morning and tepid water 
every night. Second, attend most particularly to the 
ventilation at night. If you have no ventilator in 
your window, then leave the upper sash open at least 
a quarter-inch or so more, if there is no wind, both 
top and bottom if the night is perfectly still. 

If you can afford it, manage to have a small fire 
in your bedroom every other night. Make yourself 
quite sure first that the chimney is not closed by a 
fire board, or by a chimney trap, or by something 
placed in the chimney to prevent the soot falling into 
the room. Boring four or five small holes through 
the bottom of your bedroom door is no bad method 
of admitting fresh air ; but the thing is to let the foul 
air out, and this can hardly be done without some 
mechanical contrivance, viz. as a ventilator in the 
ceiling such as a curved zinc tube passing from the 
centre of the ceiling into the open air through the 
tiles, so made as to allow the foul air to escape, but 
no draught or rain to come down through it. In case 
you apprehend danger, either to yourself or to others, 
the patient is immediately to be put to bed, kept 
warm with a fire in the bedroom, and you can hardly 
go wrong by giving at once either a purgative dose 
(castor oil or tincture of rhubarb), which is probably 
the safest in unprofessional hands, or a Dover's fever 
powder : light diet, beef tea, mutton broth, and slops 
generally. If not better in the morning, send for 
the doctor. Keep the room warm with a small fire, 



INSOMNIA, SLEEPLESSNESS. 33 

but not stuffy : fresh air before everything ; only no 
draughts. Bathe face and hands with warm water, 
and if you cannot get Dover's or James's fever powders, 
then give a tea-spoonful of sweet spirits of nitre in a 
cupful of hot milk, and wrap up warm and induce a 
thorough perspiration. 

31. Insomnia, Sleeplessness. In case you 
should be troubled, as many persons not otherwise 
affected in their general health are, with this most 
wearing and harassing annoyance, then, before resort- 
ing to the counteracting effects of sleeping-draughts, 
it may be worth while to' try one or more of the 
following possible palliatives. Of the efficacy, more 
or less certain, of one or two of them, I can speak 
from my own personal experience. But first, on the 
possible hypothesis that you have already tried all 
that nature can do, and must resort to art, then, 
instead of morphia or laudanum, or even Battley's 
sedative all excellent in their way when prescribed 
for you by a qualified doctor, who has heard your 
symptoms and knows your case take the following 
sedative draught : Hydrate of chloral, bromide of 
potassium, of each from 20 to 30 grains; syrup of 
orange peel, 2 drachms ; water to an ounce and a half. 
To be taken at bed-time. It is worth while trying 
whether the bromide of potassium by itself would not 
procure the desired result, without the hydrate of 
chloral ; anyway, be most especially and particularly 
on your guard against getting into the habit of taking 
hydrate of chloral by itself alone ; and still more, 
do not take up the pernicious practice, now much 
indulged in, and with very evil and even fatal effects, 
of eating chloral. Get, by the way, and read, if you 
care to do so, a very graphic article on the effects of 
D 



34 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

this habit, by Dr. Gordon Stables, in Belgravia for 
April 1875. 

First, then, before resorting to any drug, try rising 
early ; . and, wherever you are, whether in town or 
country, get a good walk better still, a ride before 
breakfast-; in fact, rather go, as I would, without your 
breakfast than without your walk. Resist all tempta- 
tion to fall asleep during the day, and in especial fight 
off, by getting up and compelling yourself to move 
about, all somnolency after dinner. Get all the 
sensible, wholesome exercise in the fresh, or, at least, 
the open air, you can, during the day. Go to bed 
in decent time, say at 10.30 or n P.M. at latest, 
and after undressing, either sponge the whole body 
over with a moderately wet sponge, and rub dry with 
the roughest Turkish towel you can get; or else 
scour yourself all over, chest, back, and everything, 
with a flesh-brush ; using, if you like, a pair of horse- 
hair gloves, and a broad horsehair-belt for the back. 
This latter practice in especial the use of the 
flesh -brush has a wonderful effect even by itself 
in inducing sleep, and is strongly recommended by 
Dr. Duckworth in his pamphlet on The Causes and 
Treatment of Sleeplessness}- I can testify myself to 
its virtue, even when not preceded by the cold-water 
sponging. It is no bad plan either, particularly 
on a cold winter's night, to use the Indian clubs or 
the dumb-bells, for ten minutes, -till you are in a 
delicious warm glow, before jumping into bed. In- 
digestion and the busy brain are, of course, two of 
the principal causes of sleeplessness ; attention to the 

1 Causes and Treatment of Certain Forms of Sleeplessness, by 
Dyce Duckworth, M. D. , Assistant Physician of St. Bartholomew's 
Hospital; published by Messrs. Longmans and Co., price is. 



INSOMNIA, SLEEPLESSNESS. 35 

first by avoiding hot heavy suppers, and the eating 
nothing that you know will disagree with your stomach, 
will probably remove the first, and doing your best 
to banish all unpleasant thoughts of annoyance, wrong, 
work, or business, before going to bed, will help to 
remove the second. Sleep in a flannel night-shirt, 
and between the blankets, not in cold linen sheets (I 
cannot recommend this too strongly) ; say your prayers 
before you undress yourself, or else in bed, and not 
starving and shivering with cold in a linen night-shirt 
by the bedside, and be sound asleep in ten minutes. 

I would especially recommend also the putting 
away for half an hour, or at least for a quarter of an 
hour, all hard, laborious, and intellectual work. Do 
not continue any composition, whether Greek, Latin, 
French, or English, not even letter-writing, till the 
last minute before going to bed. So, also, put aside 
all stiff and hard reading, whether for pass or class, 
first or second M.B., or first or second F.R.C.S , and 
after you have read your chapter, or half chapter, of 
the New Testament, take the jolliest, most amusing 
novel or tale you can lay your hand on, and so drive 
out of your head all " carking cares," and thoughts of 
" what the morrow may bring forth ; " and lay your 
body between the soft Whitneys, and your head on 
the pillow, full of 

" The looks and sighs, 

The mingled doubts and fears, 
The passionate hopes and memories, 
The eloquent smiles and tears " 

of the hero and the heroine of the tale : all as unreal, 
ideal, imaginary, and evanescent, as the light dreams 
that will soon fill every membrane of the brain that 
is not already lulled to its natural repose. Two other 



36 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

methods may be also tried, if these fail. I have often 
put myself to sleep by repeating poetry by heart to 
myself, something that one knows so thoroughly 
that it requires no sort of effort Tennyson's " May 
Queen," Milton's " Lycidas," or his "Christmas 
Hymn," have often and often proved my narcotic. 
There is, besides, yet another plan strongly recom- 
mended in (I think) a work on the Philosophy of 
Sleep, by a Dr. Acton, which I read many years 
ago. It is this to fix the mind steadily and perse- 
veringly on some one sole object, and never let the 
attention be diverted, or the fixed thought waver for 
a single instant. As soon as you have settled your- 
self comfortably in bed, imagine to yourself, Dr. 
Acton suggests, the two currents of air passing out 
from the nostrils at each exhalation. Take each time 
a long slow breath through the mouth, then close the 
mouth and expel the breath through the nose, fancying 
all the time that you can see the two volumes of 
breath passing out through the nose, as distinctly and 
clearly as one can see one's breath on a fine frosty 
morning. Continue the process steadily and without 
allowing your thoughts to wander for an instant, and 
you will be asleep in five minutes or less. 

32. Lumbago. Use plenty of friction, with a 
Turkish towel, or if you can bear it, with a flesh- 
brush. Apply flannel, moistened with mustard lini- 
ment, to the place where the pain is bad, and wear a 
flannel belt round the waist and loins red flannel is 
best. If you have no mustard liniment at hand, use 
a mustard poultice or plaster, sprinkled with a few 
drops of spirits of turpentine : it will answer the same 
purpose. A Turkish bath, if you can get one, or if 
not, any medicine to act upon the skin and bring out 
perspiration, is generally useful. 



MEASLES. 37 

33. Measles. First and foremost, do not invite 
it, in case it is prevalent, by catching cold, lying on 
damp grass, by any exposure to wet, cold, or damp, 
or by disordering your stomach by sweets, pastry, and 
so forth. If measles is prevalent, such a course of 
conduct would be especially foolish. 

SYMPTOMS. Eyes running, hoarseness, violent 
sneezing ; on the third or fourth day a rash comes 
out, much as if the patient had speckled his face with' 
raspberry jam. 

TREATMENT. Put the patient to bed, and keep 
him warm; allow no cold draught in his room, but 
do not let it get close. Wash the hands and face 
with hot water; keep the eyes clear, and manage 
somehow to keep down the cough, by a bran poultice 
if necessary, till the doctor comes. 

34. Piles. Avoid all strong rich soups and hot 
fiery wines. If you must take wine, let it be a little 
good sound Bordeaux ; but you are better without 
any. If you cannot get medical advice, take a tea- 
spoonful of milk of sulphur, bought at the best 
chemist's (for it is often adulterated), in a wine-glass- 
ful of water once or twice a day. A blue pill every 
other night, followed by a little castor oil or tincture 
of rhubarb in the morning, is no bad thing, if you are 
troubled with this tiresome painful complaint. In 
especial, wash the part affected with cold water after 
every motion, and apply a little gall ointment. 

35. Poison. TREATMENT. Send at once for a 
doctor, and- lose no time. Meanwhile administer 
doses of warm water with plenty of mustard in it, or 
else ipecacuanha wine, and irritate the throat by the 
feather end of a quill. Should the case be past the 
power of sickness and relief by vomiting, and there 



38 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 



be no stomach-pump, then perhaps your best chance 
is to administer a very strong dose of castor oil, or 
some even more potent purgative. Of course, if you 
know any special antidote for the special poison that 
has been taken, use it. 

Mr. Stowe's admirable Toxicological Chart, that is, 
" List of Remedies against Poisons," published by 
Messrs. Churchill and Sons, 1 1 New Burlington Street, 
London, W., is well worth your purchasing: particu- 
larly if you are captain of a large passenger ship, or 
otherwise in the habit of employing a large number of 
men or women, the care of whose health is important 
to you. 

In case of poisoning by laudanum, give strong black 
coffee, keep the patient moving about ; walk him to 
and fro between two strong men, beat the soles of 
his feet, pinch him ; in fact, do anything to keep 
him awake, and by no means suffer him to go to 
sleep. 

Mineral Poisoning. If you have reason to suspect 
that the patient has swallowed any metallic or mineral 
poison, make him or her swallow at once three or four 
white of eggs, or more, before you give the emetic. 
This is especially useful in poisoning by corrosive 
sublimate. If you can't get white of egg, use milk, 
oil, or flour and water. 

36. Retention of Urine. Put the patient in a 
hot bath and keep him there till he feels faint ; give 
him from 30 to 40 drops of laudanum in a little water. 

37. Rheumatism. PREVENTIVES. Of course, 
in case you get thoroughly wet, change everything as 
soon as you can, and do not, on any account, sit in 
wet things, or let them dry upon you. If you are a 
seafaring man, do not, if you can help it, go and lie 



RHE UMA TISM. 39 



down in your oilskins with your underclothing all 
wet, but make time to shift, and, anyway, put a dry 
flannel shirt on before you lie down. Also, if you 
are in the morning watch, save up a bit of biscuit 
and a drop of coffee in your tin, to take first thing 
before you begin to wash decks. If you have them, 
wear good sea-boots (grease or oil them well), and 
oilskins, while washing decks, and do not lay an 
unfailing foundation for rheumatism by washing decks 
with bare feet and legs, and on an empty stomach. 
The great thing is, after shifting everything wet before 
you go to bed, to rub yourself warm and dry with a 
rough towel, and sleep in a dry flannel shirt. 

FOR INCIPIENT RHEUMATISM. PREVENTIVES. I 
have found the use of a flesh-brush, or rough Turkish 
towel, with any quantity of cold-water sponging, and 
taking care to rub dry after it, very efficacious. Use 
plenty of friction, wherever you feel the pain : wear 
flannel next the skin, and do not, on any account, 
sleep in the same flannel shirt or under waistcoat 
that you have worn during the day. By attending 
to these precautions, you will, possibly, escape rheu- 
matism altogether, or arrest it at its first appearance. 
By all means, take a Turkish bath, if you can get 
one. 

TREATMENT. Of course, get the best medical 
advice within your reach, and if you can afford it, 
consult any hospital physician, or any doctor, London 
or other, who has made rheumatism and similar com- 
plaints his speciality. If no doctor can be had, then 
the following palliatives may be resorted to. They 
will relieve, anyway, if not take away the dreadful 
pain. Use friction, per se friction, if it can be borne. 
Apply soap liniment on a bit of flannel, or, better 



40 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 



still, mustard liniment on a bit of flannel, and keep 
it on as long as you can bear it. If this fails to give 
relief, rub with chloroform and laudanum mixed, or 
lay a bit of flannel dipped in the mixture on the 
place; and if you can get any, put strips of blister 
plaster near the affected parts, when the pain is very 
severe. Equal parts of chloroform and camphor 
liniment rubbed in with the hand, or with a bit of 
flannel where the pain is greatest, often give great 
relief, if the patient cannot bear friction. 

The following recipe for a liniment, taken from 
one of our Hospital Pharmacopoeias, is, probably, in 
case that you are in pain, and can get it made up, as 
good as any you can use for lumbago or rheumatic 
pains. 

3 Lin. Belladonnas . . 3vj. 
Chloroformi . . . . 51]. 
Lin. Cam ph. co. . . j. 

Ft mist. 

That is, in English, six drachms of liniment of bella- 
donna, two drachms of chloroform, and one oz. of 
compound camphor liniment, mixed, and applied as 
above. 

Of course, all severe acute rheumatism (rheumatic 
fever) should be seen by a medical man : internal 
mischief of the most serious kind may otherwise 
occur, and the heart may be affected and then \ 
In my own very limited experience, I have known 
the flesh-brush, by itself, to work wonders, even in 
cases of rheumatism of some standing, and have also 
seen a wet wrap, with flannel or gutta-percha outside, 
to keep* the warmth and moisture in, over the arm or 
leg affected, produce an excellent effect, and for a 
time banish all rheumatic pains. 



RUPTURE. 41 



A well-known London M.D., who has made 
rheumatism one of his special studies, recommends 
the following treatment. (I know of one bad case 
where it has been entirely successful.) Wear a close- 
fitting under-waistcoat with sleeves, and a pair of 
drawers, of spun silk ; use one suit for day, and one 
for night ; and take, on first waking in the morning, 
a tea-spoonful of essence of ginger in a little warm tea. 1 

38. Rupture. As it is quite possible that this 
calamity may happen to you, without your being 
aware for some time of what has befallen you, and 
delay in such a case may be very dangerous and 
entail very grave consequences, it is as well to men- 
tion some of the more common symptoms. Bear in 
mind that it is, some think, hereditary, and that if it 
has occurred to a parent, generally speaking, to a 
father, then the son, or the child, may look forward 
to its happening to him, probably about the age of 
40, and very likely only in consequence of some 
slight accident or over-exertion about that age, such 
as a stumble going up a staircase or the leaping over 
a narrow and easy ditch; something a great deal 
short of what rowing in the University boat-race, or 
your horse's " buckjumping " while you are riding, 
may produce. Even in my own limited experience 
I have known a sailor at sea rupture himself while 
hauling at a rope, and remain entirely ignorant of 

1 N.B. For your sorrow, if you are a sufferer from this 
wearing and painful complaint, no one specific has yet been dis- 
covered for it. If the essence of ginger, however, should not 
do good, you may as well try lemon-Juice, instead. Others, 
great authorities, laud, some alkaline drugs, such as bicarbonate 
of potass ; others, iodide of potass ; others, guaiacum, as likely 
to be curatives ; but the administration of them you must leave 
to a real doctor. 



42 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

what had really happened to him, for three or four 
days. Hospital surgeons and others in large practice 
meet, no doubt, with many similar cases of ignorance 
in their patients. 

SYMPTOMS. If the accident be met with suddenly, 
and the rupture caused at once, in full force, strongly 
developed, then an acute pain will be felt, and the 
protrusion in the part affected will speak for itself 
and be unmistakable. If, on the contrary, the rupture 
comes on gradually, then a heavy, dull, bearing down 
pain will be felt, which will gradually increase and be 
attended with more and more sickness and vomiting. 
The unmistakable evidence is the protrusion, which 
will make itself known by feeling, when you put your 
finger to the place, that one spot on the surface of 
the belly protrudes beyond the rest, when you give 
an impulse to the intestines by coughing or straining 
in any way, particularly when at stool. 

How TO ACT. At once, if you perceive a rupture 
(and you can distinguish it from any glandular swell- 
ing by its visibly increasing and descending when you 
cough), make pressure upon it, so as to return the 
bowel which is in it, and prevent it from coming out 
again. One need hardly say that, if you are within 
the reach of and can afford good medical advice, at 
once show the place to the best surgeon you know ; 
and if you are a poor man, go to the nearest hospital 
and wait to see the surgeon of the day in the out- 
patients' room. Do not on any account neglect it : it 
may get much and very dangerously worse, and will 
certainly, whatever your age may be, never get any 
better without proper treatment. In case you can 
in no way get to see a surgeon, then, if you are on 
shore, go to the nearest and best of truss-makers you 



RUPTURE. 43 



know of, get him to examine the rupture, and provide 
you with the best properly -fitting truss you can afford 
to pay for. Wear this always^ except when in bed, 
so as never to allow the rupture to come down, and 
if you can anyhow afford it, keep a second one, so 
as to have it ready at hand, in case any accident 
happens to the one you have on. It is best and 
safest not to take your truss off till you are in bed, 
and lying down, and do not be tempted during the 
night to jump out of bed for any purpose whatever, 
without first putting your truss on. 

Should you, unfortunately^ be at sea, and there be 
no truss in the medicine chest that will fit you, or be 
elsewhere, where you can nohow procure a truss, then 
do your best to make a large pad of lint or tow. 
Place it exactly over the spot where the protrusion is, 
and keep it in its place by passing a bandage in a 
figure -of- 8 round the body, above the hips, and 
round the upper part of the thigh, so that the two 
turns of the bandage shall cross each other over the 
pad of lint. Recollect and never get up from the 
lying posture without first fixing your truss or your 
bandage properly on, and see that it does not get too 
slack while going about your work. Of course, a 
truss is far better, more safe, and more easily worn 
than a bandage and a pad, but " those who cannot 
sail must row." 

Take good care and attend to your bowels, keep 
them freely open every day, and mind you do not 
get constipated, in case you have a rupture. For 
your consolation, if the rupture is early returned, 
there is no danger from it ; and if you wear a good, 
well-fitting truss, you will be able to go about your 
work as usual, and even take strong muscular exer- 



44 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

cise, gymnasticise, and possibly, as I have known 
men do, even row in boat-races, and win them, too. 

38A. Strangulated Hernia. Perhaps, even in 
an ^professional little work like this, it is best to say 
something of this dangerous, painful, and very pos- 
sibly even fatal affliction ; though you must be either 
a fool or a madman if you do not, in your own case, 
if it be your own, or that of your patient, call in at 
once or resort to the very best surgical aid within 
your reach. In case you should be at sea, on board 
a merchant-service ship, that carries no surgeon, or 
elsewhere on shore, where there is no possibility of 
obtaining professional help, then, perhaps, the follow- 
ing advice may be of service. 

In case the rupture be difficult to reduce (and 
remember that a rupture may be produced and 
become strangulated at the same time, though it is 
generally with ruptures of long standing that this 
danger occurs, owing to some very violent exertion 
or some terrible pressure or squeezing), then act as 
follows : Place the patient on his back, supporting 
the shoulders with a thick pillow or bolster, so as to 
bend his body forwards. Next, bend the knees 
upwards, so as to make the lower part of the belly as 
loose as possible, and on the injured side the side, 
that is, where the rupture exists bend the whole 
thigh back against the abdomen ; taking care, at the 
same time, not to bend the thigh outwards, that is to 
say, away from the body. When you have thus 
relaxed and loosened all the parts about the groin, 
use the fingers of both hands to manipulate neatly and 
gently the parts about the neck of the swelling that 
is, of the protruding mass and endeavour to make 
the contents of the bag, or sac, as it is called, return 



SEA-SICKNESS. 45 



bit by bit into the belly, and do not attempt to push 
the whole of it back by main force at once. Should 
difficulty occur in doing this, put the patient into as 
hot a bath as he can bear, and give him 40, 50, or 
even 60 drops of laudanum. This last, 60 drops, is of 
course the maximum dose, equal to 4 grains of opium ; 
but very experienced surgeons tell me that they would 
not scruple to give it, if the case be a bad one, and 
the pain very great. Wait till the heat of the bath 
shall make him quite faint, and while he is still in the 
bath do your best to reduce the rupture, taking the 
greatest care during the operation not to bruise or 
injure the intestine contained in the protruding mass. 

39. Sea-sickness, Cure, or rather Preventive 
of. Before going to sea, take on the previous evening 
a small dose of opening medicine, such as a couple 
of compound rhubarb pills, or a small dose of castor 
oil. I have often found that two of Norton's chamo- 
mile pills, a patent medicine sold at most apothecaries' 
shops, or one of Cockle's antibilious pills, answer the 
purpose, though regular medical men cannot be sup- 
posed to subscribe to the use of so-called quack com- 
pounds. 

Immediately on the vessel's getting out to the open 
sea, repeat the dose, and lie on your back. Do not 
be persuaded to use any of the so-called remedies 
that the steward will offer you; least of all touch 
brandy. When once the medicine has operated, all 
the feeling of sea-sickness will pass off; but in case 
of severe weather coming on, take one or two of 
Norton's chamomile. pills. While lying down keep 
your eyes shut, and re-main as near the centre of the 
vessel as you can. Better still, get into a hammock, 
if you can get one swung for you, as near the centre 



46 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

of the ship as possible. In a hammock, weighted at 
the bottom with a heavy shot, and furnished with 
curtains, suspended from above with iron or brass 
rods, so as to admit the air, but to prevent your 
seeing the motion of all about you, while the ship is 
rolling or pitching, you may defy any sea-sickness, 
however heavy the weather. In case of great ex- 
haustion from prolonged sea-sickness, the stomach 
will often retain water-arrowroot warm, with a dash 
of brandy in it. If the voyage lasts two or three 
days, and you do not feel altogether as well as you 
should do, drink a glass of cold water the first thing 
on getting up in Hie morning avoid suppers ; but if 
you can get stewed prunes for tea, take them. 

40. Sore Throat, Treatment of. If sudden 
and violent, lose no time in sending for a doctor; 
there is no knowing what mischief may otherwise 
supervene. If no doctor can immediately be found, 
and the case seems urgent, then wrap the patient in 
blankets, or* better still, in a sheep-skin coat (if you 
have one), with the wool next the skin. < Administer 
a tea-cupful of hot milk with a tea-spoonful of sweet 
spirits of nitre, and round the neck tie a towel or 
napkin, wrung out of cold water^ taking care, of 
course, to prevent the water from running down the 
patient's neck or chest, and outside it wrap gutta- 
percha, oil-silk, or flannel, to keep the heat and 
moisture in. Put the patient to bed, wrapped in a 
blanket or sheep-skin coat, and heap on him all the 
warm clothing you can find, and get him into a good 
perspiration, if you possibly can, by these means. In 
case he seems feverish, with a foul tongue, and a 
rapid pulse, you can hardly do wrong by giving him 
a dose of Dover's, or James's fever powder, instead of 



SPRAIN. 47 



the sweet spirits of nitre. Follow it up by a dose of 
castor oil, or a purgative pill in the morning. 

The soreness is much alleviated by holding a clove 
in the mouth ; some persons recommend a nitre ball, 
but these are only temporary remedies. Do not try 
a mustard poultice instead of the cold-water wrap; 
for apio-Tov (J.GV vSup (i.e. the cold-water bandage round 
the throat is the best). For slight cases of sore 
throat, rubbing the throat externally with hartshorn 
and oil will often suffice. 

41. Sprain, Bad. If it be a knee or foot, do not 
walk on it; if it be an arm or hand, do not use it 
more than you can help ; get home, and keep quiet, 
and as soon as you can, wrap the part affected with 
a towel or cloth, as full of cold water as you can bear 
it; always providing it does not run down. Wrap 
the cloth round with gutta-percha or oil-silk ; if you 
have none of these, substitute flannel. If you keep 
yourself perfectly quiet, and the towel or cloth con- 
tinually moist, and go to bed, you very probably will 
be well next morning. A lotion of tincture of arnica 
and water, not too strong, may probably be used 
with benefit, instead of water alone. Some medical 
authorities recommend, in preference to the above 
treatment, bathing well the part affected with hot 
water, then applying a hot -water bandage, with 
flannel or gutta-percha outside, or a linseed poultice 
on the part sprained. If it be a foot or knee, do not 
let it hang down, and if it be an elbow or a wrist, 
support it in a sling. 

42. Stammering, Cure of. Take your patient 
into a private room with you, or somewhere apart, 
where his nervousness will not be aggravated by any 
one else's presence. Bid him quietly imitate you, in 



43 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

doing as follows : clench your right fist, then, extend- 
ing the forefinger of the same hand, slightly curved 
(see illustration), make him pronounce an easy sen- 
tence, syllable by syllable, slowly after you, tapping 
slowly and deliberately, once for "each syllable, in the 
open palm of the left hand, or rather, on a table or 
desk. Make him do this several times after you, 




bidding him imitate you in each motion of the right 
forefinger and hand, till he enunciates without diffi- 
culty. Persuade him to do this, quietly and steadily, 
without afterwards minding the presence of other 
people; and, if he will but persevere with it, the 
cure will be effected in a few days. The patient 
ought to practise this by himself, afterwards, reading 
or speaking aloud, in a room alone, tapping once as 
he brings out each syllable ; and he will find, as I 
have done, that he will entirely conquer the habit of 
stammering within a short time. This remedy was 
taught me several years ago by one of the very first 
medical men living. I can safely say that I never 
found it fail, and that I am sure that by means of it 
I have entirely cured a great many very bad cases of 
stammering. 



STOMACH-ACHE. 49 

43. Sting of Wasp, Bee, or Hornet. 

Take care and extract with your fingers or a small 
pair of tweezers any bit of the sting that is left in the 
wound The place may be then gently squeezed to 
extract the venom, or even sucked with impunity, if 
there be no scratch, crack, or abrasion, on the lips. 
Then wash with warm water and rub some sweet oil 
into the place, which will generally abate the pain. 
A small poultice may be put on at night, if the 
pain be not all gone, or the place be still swollen, 
Ipecacuanha powder poultices are useful. 

44. Stomach - Ache *y i. IN CHILDREN: 2. IN 
ADULTS. i. To begin with this very " common 
heritage " of infantine and childish " woe," first and 
foremost show your sense, as far as a fond (and 
foolish ?) papa or mamma can be supposed to show 
it, by preventing " the little ones " from eating and 
drinking what you know, and they don't know, to be 
a likely fons et origo malorum. For instance, prevent 
their eating raw and unripe fruit ; going into the 
garden and picking and swallowing green peas, sour 
gooseberries, and so on ; in short, keep them on their 
proper diet, eggs and milk, in especial, the only two 
perfect per se kinds of food ; good brown bread, 
made at home of whole-ground wheat, infinitely more 
nourishing than the fine white bread, too often adul- 
terated for the sake of the colour, with alum, to the 
ruin of the teeth and the confinement of the bowels ; 
Scotch oatmeal porridge, with plenty of milk, not 
odious salt and the like. N.B. Do not expect 
your young child to thrive on tea and white bread 
and butter only; still less on buttered toast. A 
growing child needs something better at breakfast 
than that. If you yourself know nothing about the 



50 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

proper diet for a child, then buy one of the London 
Hospital Pharmacopoeias, particularly one of the 
" Children's Hospital Pharmacopoeias," at the end 
of which a proper dietary for a child, according to 
its age, is given. 

If stomach-ache does come, in spite of all reason- 
able precautions, then, if you have no doctor at hand, 
or in case you don't, in your wisdom, think fit to call 
one in, or in case you cannot pay him if you do ' 
then, faute de mieux, give from a quarter of an ounce 
of tincture of rhubarb to half an ounce, according to 
age and strength, with from two to four drops of 
laudanum, and four or five drops of essence of ginger 
in about a wine-glass or a little more of water. A 
little sugar and grated nutmeg in it will do no harm, 
and make it more palatable. Cut him or her, as the 
case may be, a bit of thin fresh lemon-peel, and give 
it to set the little teeth into as soon as the succus 
amarus is swallowed, to take the taste away ; or, if 
you cannot get this, then a thin slice of a ripe apple, 
or a small suck at an orange. A child won't take 
medicine any the better another time, for having had 
the nasty taste in its mouth for minutes after it has 
swallowed its first dose. Put the child to bed, warm 
and comfortable ; and if the pain continues, repeat the 
dose, and apply warm fomentations, flannels wrung 
out in hot water, with a few drops of spirits of turpen- 
tine sprinkled on them to the pit of the stomach. 

Better still, if you are near and have access to 
a Hospital Dispensary ; or, failing that, to a good 
chemist's, then have the following recipe made up, 
and give it : 

Magnes. Carb. . . . . gr. x. 
Pulvis Cretse Aromat. . . gr. x. 



STOMA CH-A CHE. 5 1 



Tinct. Rhei. .... "ixv.-xx. 

Aq. Menth. Pip. ad . . . 3j. 
Ft. mist. 

Or, in English, ten grains of carbonate of magnesia, 
ten grains of aromatic powdered chalk, fifteen to 
twenty drops of tincture of rhubarb, and one ounce 
of peppermint water. Repeat the dose in half an 
hour if the pain be not quieted. This will suit a 
child of eight or ten years of age. 

For pain in the stomach in infants, try, before you 
give Dill or any other medicine, gentle pressure with 
the palm of the warm han$ on the abdomen, quietly 
and steadily applied. The pain, probably owing to 
wind only, will pass away, and you can sing with 
comfort Wither's* charming ballad : 

'* Sleep, baby, sleep ! what ails my dear ? 
What ails my darling thus to cry ?" 

The following notes and suggestions have been 
obligingly sent me by an eminent physician of one of 
our largest hospitals : 

Commonest cause in infants not alluded to : viz. 
"wind " in the stomach and bowels. 

Treatment. Rub the belly with warm hand and 
throw child over the shoulder, so as to . press gently 
on the stomach. In children, if apple or raw fruit 
currants, and so on be the probable cause, give a 
tea-spoonful of castor oil in peppermint water ; failing 
this, the rhubarb dose, or Gregory's powder. 

N.B. Have woollen clothing (as soft flannel) worn 
next skin. Whole-meal bread, but not bran bread for 
little children, and fine oatmeal only should be used. 
Avoid newfy-baked bread too. Second day bread 
is best, well-fired, and not raw and doughy. 



52 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

If pain be aggravated by pressure and rubbing, the 
stomach-ache may be more serious, and advice should 
be sought. Warm light poultices and one dose only 
of castor oil. The directions for the use of laudanum 
must be regulated according to the age of the child ; 
viz. one drop for every year of its age. For adults 
the castor oil and peppermint draught should be 
advised too. 

2. IN AN ADULT. Act much in the same manner as 
with this complaint in a child, if you have nothing 
better within reach than tincture of rhubarb; only, 
of course use a stronger dose, say from half an ounce 
to an ounce of the tincture, and from five to ten 
drops of laudanum. In case you can get it made up, 
probably no better prescription can be given than 
that which bears in Hospital Pharmacopoeias the 
barbarous Latin name of Haustus carminativus^ the 
draught, that is, that acts like a charm, viz. 

3^ Pulv. Rhei, 

Pulv. Zingiberis, aa . . . gr. v. 

Sodae Bicarb. . . . . gr. x. 

Sp. Ammon. Arom. . . . mxx. 

Aq. Cinnamomi ad ... 5j. 
Ft. mist. 

That is, five grains of rhubarb powder with the same 
quantity of powdered ginger ; ten grains of bicar- 
bonate of soda, twenty drops of the aromatic spirits of 
ammonia, and one ounce of cinnamon water; or, if 
you cannot get that, plain water will do. 

45. Sunstroke. PREVENTION. In case you are 
in a hot climate, and particularly if you have to 
expose yourself much, or travel, or work under a 
blazing sun, protect head, nape of neck, and spine 



SUNSTROKE. 53 



most carefully with a good thick felt hat with white 
cover on it, and a pugree, that is a roll of white 
calico round it and hanging down behind, well ovel 
the neck ; or, better still, with a pith helmet and a 
pugree, and wear flannel next the skin. Drink no 
strong liquors while the sun is up; but only tea, 
lemonade, or claret and water. 

TREATMENT. Of course, if possible, call a doctor ; 
if none can be had, unfasten his shirt, collar, neck- 
cloth, waistcoat, etc., and do not stand upon ceremony, 
but immediately dash a bucket of the coldest water 
you can get immediately ojer the patient's head. 

So, in douching (that is, pouring a stream of cold 
water on) the head, neck, and chest. The best way 
in sunstroke and in other cases of congestion of the 
brain, is to put a sheet round the patient's neck falling 
over his shoulders ; let him sit on a chair, and then 
take a large pitcher or jar of cold water, and pour it 
on the top of his head from a height of two or three 
feet ; pack the- patient, if you can manage it, in a cold 
wet sheet, and use the fan, give him plenty of cold, 
strong black tea to drink. 

Wrap the top of the head round with a wet towel, 
using iced water if procurable. Of course, put the 
patient in the coolest place you can. If delirium 
supervenes, some doctors say use bleeding. [Of course 
this should be done by a doctor, but if no doctor can 
possibly be had, and you try it yourself, then do not 
touch the arm, but take the shoe and stocking off, 
and tie a bandage tight just above the foot, and as 
soon as the veins of the feet swell, one of them can 
be opened with comparative safety. When enough 
blood has been taken, the place is easily stopped 
with a little lint, diachylon plaster, or something of 



54 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

that kind.] Give champagne or cold tea internally, 
and use ice if obtainable, externally. 

N.B. Others, and those the best and most recent 
Indian medical authorities, say most emphatically, Do 
not bleed for sunstroke ; but trust to the cold-water cure. 

46. Tic - Douloureux, Treatment of. In 
case you are at sea, or elsewhere, where you can get 
no doctor, give two grains of quinine and _ five grains 
of citrate of iron three times a day in a little water. 
There is a soluble citrate of quinine and iron, of which 
eight to ten grains may be given three times a day. 

In case this does not answer, give ten, twenty, or 
even thirty grains of sal ammoniac thrice a day. 

When all else fails, I have known half a tea-spoon- 
ful of oxide of iron, taken three times a day in a 
wine-glassful of water, or better in a little honey or 
treacle, do wonders. A bit of lint or rag covered 
with strong ammonia liniment, laid upon the place 
where the pain is worst, often gives relief. Keep the 
bowels freely opened. 

47. Toothache, How to Treat. To alleviate 
the wretched pain for nothing probaby short of "cold 
steel," that is, extraction, can work a perfect cure 
take at once a tolerably strong dose of opening 
medicine ; as soon as this operates, in all probability 
the pain will be gone for a week or two. Meanwhile, 
apply a small mustard poultice outside, just over the 
place where the pain is most violent, and rub the 
gum and the tooth with chloroform and laudanum 
mixed. If the tooth be a hollow one and very pain- 
ful, then put in the cavity a little cotton-wool dipped 
in chloroform and laudanum. It will ease the dread- 
ful pain. A little bit of cotton dipped in a solution 
of shellac, or of gum mastic and spirits of wine, 



VOMITING. 55 



makes a good temporary stopping for very bad teeth. 
Avoid the ordinary vaunted " nostrums," that is, the 
quack medicines said instantly to remove toothache. 
Kreasote is the safest .domestic remedy to employ, 
if the pain be very bad ; only get a friend to employ 
it, by putting a little bit of cotton-wool dipped in it 
into the hollow of the tooth for you, and do not try 
to put it in yourself, or you will scarify your tongue 
and gums. 1 

48. Vomiting 1 , Obstinate. When the stomach 
will retain nothing. General directions, when a Doctor 
cannot be got. Keep the patient perfectly quiet, in a 
bed if possible, and on his back. Give no food for some 
time, and then only tea-spoonful doses of it at a time, 
with long intervals ; leave him to himself for an hour 
or two ; then give five drops of chlorodyne in a little 
water, and, after an interval, a little chicken-broth or 
cold beef-tea. Milk, pure and simple, or milk with 
lime-water, in very small quantities at a time, is often 
useful. If you cannot keep these down, lay a piece 
of lint soaked in a tea-spoonful of brandy and a tea- 
spoonful of laudanum mixed, on the pit of the 
stomach, cover it with a bit of oiled silk or gutta- 

1 The following remedy for toothache was given me by a 
dentist of very great reputation : "First wash the mouth well 
with warm water ; then use the following tincture : Tannin, 10 
grains ; gum mastic, \ a drachm ; 10 drops of carbolic acid ; 
dissolve in half an oz. of sulphuric ether." Paint the decayed 
hollow of the aching tooth over with this, twice, or even thrice, 
using a camel's-hair brush. I have never found it to fail ; and 
I have used it myself some hundreds of times, both at sea and 
on shore. The remedy will last good a month or more. Then 
apply it again if the pain returns : it does not hurt the other 
teeth. Take care and keep the tincture in a vial with a glass 
stopper, not a cork, as the gum mastic makes the cork stick 
fast in the neck of the vial, and break. 



56 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

percha twice the size of the lint, and renew it every 
four or five hours. A mustard plaster will answer the 
same purpose, and is, probably, more easily procured. 
Either application will help to quiet the stomach. A 
table-spoonful of lime-water in a tea-cupful of milk or 
of cold beef-tea (1 have found that the stomach will 
always keep down the u-hite of an egg, well beaten 
up with half a tea-spoonful of brandy, and given a 
very little at a time, when it would retain nothing 
else), or of arrowroot, will often abate the vomiting and 
enable the stomach to retain a small quantity of food. 

Thirty drops of wood naphtha and as much of 
the tincture of cardamoms, in a table-spoonful or two 
of water is sometimes used for this distressing com- 
plaint, and with success. It is very useful in prevent- 
ing the vomiting of consumptive patients. Other 
experienced doctors say, Use one drop of ipecacuanha 
wine every half hour. 

49. Whooping-Cough. Not much can be done 
by unprofessional persons in the way of cutting short 
an attack of this complaint ; but the following general 
directions may be useful. Keep the patient indoors, 
and feed, or rather nourish well ; attend to his 
general health by keeping the room warm and well 
ventilated, but with no cold draughts. Keep the 
bowels regular, and give a drop, or two drops, of 
tincture of belladonna in a little water every now and 
then. Some much recommend a little alum dissolved 
in water, or a little alum to suck, or cochineal ; but 
the belladonna is preferable. As whooping-cough 
may cause fits and other dangerous consequences, if 
possible, always call in a doctor. 



APPENDIX TO PART I. 



RULES OF SIMPLE HYGIENE. 
i. Care of the Eyes and the Use of Gas. 

If you are so unfortunate, or in some senses, so fortunate, 
as to burn gas in your hou^e, then never read small 
type, or, better, never read at all by it at night. In the 
opinion of a very famous oculist, it is the most unfit 
light for the human eye ever invented. Instead of using 
ground-glass globes (they are far more injurious to the 
eye than globes of plain glass), procure from Warrington, 
where they are made, globes of plain glass, "neutral 
tinted," as it is called ; that is, stained pale blue. The 
yellow glare of the gas, passing through the blue-coloured 
globe, is neutralised thereby, and converted into a faint 
greenish hue, as comforting and refreshing to the eye, 
as the horrid glare of the yellow light is hurtful. Better 
far than to use any gas, or oil light, for hard reading, is 
to burn " Decimal candles, " made from the refuse of 
palm oil, and called " Decimals," as they run ten to the 
pound. Place them, one or two, behind you, if you pre- 
fer it ; anyway, on your /fe/Q'-riand side, when you read, 
and let the light fall on your book. In writing or read- 
ing, either by daylight or by artificial light, the light 
should be sufficiently strong, and fall on the table or 
book from the left-hand side, and, as far as possible, from 
above. By attending to this, when writing, the shadow 
of the hand will not then fall upon that part of the paper 
at which you are looking. The book, or writing, should 



58 RULES OF SIMPLE HYGIENE. 

be from ten to. twelve inches from the eyes, and raised 
about 20 for writing, and about 40 for reading. Hang 
up on a wall, before you, a large sheet of green baize, or 
green silk, and lay your book down, from time to time, 
and take a quiet stare or look at the green silk or green 
baize : it will refresh the eyes greatly if you have to read 
hard at night. If you do not find this enough, buy at 
any chemist's the little glass cup called an " eye-douche," 
and give your eyes alternately a refreshing cold bath 
every hour or so. Do not fail at any time, if you wish 
to keep your eyesight good and strong, as I have kept 
mine to an advanced age, to put your face, the first 
thing in the morning and the last at night, into a basin 
of cold water, and open and shut your eyes five or six 
times under, the water ; then take your head out, with 
your eyes shut, and dab them dry with a towel or a 
sponge. Sponging, too, the nape of the neck, and even 
the whole head, is very strengthening for the eyes. 

2. Hints on Dining -out, etc. In case you 
should have dined out, and have committed the very 
common mistake of taking more than two, or even three, 
kinds of wine in fact, of having mixed your liquors ; 
or in case of having eaten, during dinner anything that 
may have caused the wine drunk to disagree with you, 
do not wait till the following morning, and then resort 
to soda-water, and so on, but at once, before going to 
bed, act as follows : Put a tea-spoonful of carbonate of 
soda into a little less than a wine-glassful of water, with 
three or four drops of essence of ginger, and you may, 
if you like, add to it a small sprinkling of cayenne 
pepper ; stir it up well, till the carbonate of soda be dis- 
solved, and drink it off. It will remove all the acidity 
of the stomach, and you will wake in the morning with- 
out a parched throat, a fevered tongue, and a heartburn. 

3. Hints 6n Smoking. If you are a smoker, do 
not habitually smoke a clay pipe> or any pipe at all 



APPENDIX. 59 



whether of briar-wood, clay, or any other material, of 
which you cannot detach the stem from the bowl, and 
clean it frequently. Towards keeping your stem and 
mouthpiece cleaner than they would otherwise be, it is 
no bad plan to put a small piece of muslin, either single 
or double, between the bowl and the stem, changing it 
frequently, when dirty. This will hinder any ashes or 
dirt from coming up into the mouth, and will, anyway, 
do something towards preventing the accumulation of 
" nicotine " in the stem and mouthpiece of the pipe. 
Leave the stem and mouthpiece in a basin of water each 
night, and then in the morning clean them out with one 
of the little wire brushes sofd for a penny at nearly all 
tobacconists. N.B. Nicotine, the alkaloid of tobacco, is 
very poisonous, and those who will smoke old filthy clay 
pipes impregnated with it, will find the practice, sooner 
or later, end in very unpleasant consequences. 

As a rule, one may say, it is best not to smoke very 
strong tobacco last thing at night, but to adopt some 
mild substitute, such as "bird's eye," or, better still, 
" superfine shortcut, " or Turkish, so-called ; and, if you 
find smoking a pipe or cigar affects your nerves, either 
adopt cigarettes, or give it up altogether. 

4- Teeth, Hints on the Care of, etc., and 

On Toothache. The tooth-brush, which should be 
used night and morning, should be small, and have its 
not too stiff bristles arranged in separate bundles (in 
order that they may pass readily between the teeth and 
into the natural depressions). The outer and inner 
surface of both front and back teeth should be brushed. 
The direction of the brushing should be from the gums ; 
that is, downwards for the upper teeth, and upwards for 
the lower. This mode of cleaning the teeth is the best 
preventive against decay, which causes toothache, and 
also against the accumulation of tartar, which makes the 
breath foul, and in course of time causes the teeth to 



60 RULES OF SIMPLE HYGIENE. 

loosen and fall out. If you use any tooth powder, you 
cannot go far wrong in employing camphorated chalk, to 
be bought at any chemist's. I prefer powdered chalk 
mixed with Castille soap ; sold by Bell, in Oxford Street. 
A tea-spoonful of bicarbonate of soda and a table-spoon- 
ful of Eau-de-Cologne, to a quart of water, makes an 
excellent preservative rinse for the mouth and teeth at 
night, and after the taking of acid medicine. 

Toothache : Its Prevention and Treatment. 
Decay of a tooth is by far the commonest cause of 
toothache, and is also the cause of many cases of 
neuralgia. Decay always begins from the outside, and 
is at first to be recognised by a darkening of one part 
of a tooth, and sometimes by a slight twinge of pain 
when anything sweet is eaten. At its commencement 
it can be completely arrested by the introduction of a 
proper metal stopping into the little hole formed by it. 
If allowed to sap into the tooth until the pulp (commonly 
called the nerve) is exposed, sharp, but passing, twinges 
of pain will probably reveal the fact. The treatment 
at this stage consists in placing a tiny pledget of cotton 
wool or fold of blotting-paper, moistened with kreosote, 
or carbolic acid, over the- exposed pulp at the bottom of 
the cavity, which should (while kept quite dry) be filled 
up with cotton -wool, saturated in a spirit solution of 
gum mastic (see p. 54 of the first part of this work) ; or, 
if it has to last for more than a week, with gutta-percha, 
or some permanent, stopping. When the tooth pulp 
is subjected to irritation, through exposure, it sooner or 
later undergoes (generally) inflammation, accompanied by 
excruciating throbbing pain. This pain may be relieved 
(almost always) by such an application as that given in 
footnote (p. 55), and will, as a rule, cease in the course of 
a day or two, through the death of the pulp. When the 
pulp is dead, which may be known by the sudden and 
complete cessation of pain, it must be thoroughly cleared 



APPENDIX. 61 



out, and its chamber in the interior of the tooth, either 
completely filled, or else have a vent made into it, before 
a stopping for the preservation of the crown is inserted. 
If there is a dull aching pain in a tooth which is also 
loosened and tender on being pressed into its socket, it 
shows that inflammation has extended to the outside of 
the root, and will usually demand extraction : if a tooth 
in this condition is left alone, an abscess is apt to form 
about the root, and this, in forming, may cause consider- 
able pain and swelling of the face. The matter formed 
in such an abscess will either escape through the gums, 
forming a " gum-boil," which is of small consequence, 
or, taking a more burrowing course, it may permanently 
disfigure the face by causing a discharging opening 
through the skin, or may bring about mischief by involv- 
ing surrounding parts. Extraction of the faulty tooth 
is always demanded, when symptoms point to the last- 
named conditions. 

How to Remove a "Foreign Body" thaf 

is, a bit of Stick, Straw, Dust, Coal Ash, a " Clinker," 
and so forth from the Eye. In case no doctor 
can be had, and you are not in the neighbourhood 
of any of those " blessed places," the ophthalmic hos- 
pitals, first and foremost do not, however great the 
inclination to do so, begin by rubbing either with your 
finger or a pocket-handkerchief. By so doing you 
will probably embed whatever has got into your eye 
more firmly in it ; especially if it be a bit of steel-filing, 
or a chip of iron, or a " clinker " out of a steamboat's 
funnel. As a rule, foreign bodies are driven into the 
soft external layers of the cornea and conjunctiva in the 
efforts people make to rub them out of the eyes. If, 
when dust or any other " foreign body " gets into the 
eye, the patient would close the lid at once, keep it 
gently closed for a few minutes : then take hold, or get 
some friend to take hold, of the eyelashes of the upper 



62 RULES OF SIMPLE HYGIENE. 

lid, and draw them forwards, so as to drag the lid from 
the surface of the eye, the flow of fluid from under the 
lid would, as a rule, wash the foreign body away. If 
this does not answer, take a good strong pinch of snuff, 
if you can get it ; sneeze violently ; that may assist it 
in coming away, or, faute de mieux^ blow your nose 
strongly. No bad plan, in case neither of the above 
does any good, is to fill a basin half full with lukewarm 
water, put your face into it, and open and shut your 
eyes three or four times, and shake the head with eyes 
open in the water, so as to cause a current over the sur- 
face of the eye under the water, and that may probably 
wash out whatever has got into your eye. Of course, 
should it be a piece of steel or iron that has flown into 
your eye and got fixed in the cornea, this plan will be 
of no avail. 

Get, in that case, the neatest-handed, most light- 
fingered friend you can find, the cleverest of your mess- 
mates if you are a sailor, or fireman, or stoker, to act as 
follows : Sit down in a chair, lean your head back ; let 
your friend stand behind you ; after putting a towel or 
cloth round your head, press it back so as to steady it 
against his chest ; then press a stick, such as a fine pen- 
holder, against the skin of the upper lid, and with the 
other hand take hold of some of the eyelashes, and turn 
the lid back over the stick, so as to evert the lid and 
expose its inner surface ; search for, find, and cleverly, 
with the clean feather of a pen or with a small camePs- 
hair brush, pick away and remove whatever it be that 
has caused you so much misery. If he can detect nothing 
under the upper eyelid, then, with his finger, let him 
draw down the lower lid so as to expose the inner sur- 
face, and find and remove your plague. 

Oculists use a little delicate steel instrument called a 
" spud ;" but this requires the deftest of fingers and the 
keenest of eyes on their part (both of which they are 



APPENDIX. 63 



fortunately blessed with) to employ it properly and with- 
out doing mischief non cut-vis homini contingit, etc. 
etc. Don't you attempt to use anything of metal ; but, 
if the feather of a pen or a camel's-hair brush be not 
strong enough to pick off the offending substance, what- 
ever it may be, from the eye, then shape neatly a thin 
slip of wood into a very narrow but blunt end, and 
employ that. N.B. In case you are a mason and some 
lime has got into your eye, on no account bathe it with 
water pure and simple, or you may lose your sight 
entirely, but employ a weak solution of vinegar and 
water and use that; or, better still, get a friend to drop 
a few drops of it, into the corner of the injured eye with 
a quill. The best method of using this is to throw a 
stream of the solution upon the eye by a ball or piston 
syringe, so as to wash out the foreign substance ; in 
default of a syringe, let the liquid flow well over the 
surface of the eye. 

Perhaps the safest thing to use, after a foreign body 
has been removed from the eye, in the way of quelling 
pain and preventing inflammation, is, with a clean quill, 
to drop a drop of olive oil, or, better, castor oil, into the 
corner of the eye. In case of inflammation of the deeper 
parts of the eye, you won't go wrong in employing the 
following prescription, making the lotion stronger accord- 
ing to the severity of the attack : Extract of Belladonna, 
say, gr. xxx. to an ounce of water, with perhaps two, or 
even four grains of alum ; or only you can't get it at 
sea, and must go to a really good shop for it sulphate 
of atropine -i gr., distilled water i fluid oz. 

Drop one or two drops of this into the eye, either 
once, twice, or three times a day, as may seem advisable, 
according as there is much or little inflammation. 

How to make a First-rate Cup of Tea. 

First and foremost get your tea, whatever price you 
choose to pay for it, at the house of a man who has a 



64 RULES OF SIMPLE HYGIENE. 

character to lose, and who will give you as good an 
article as he knows how, for your money. That tea is 
sometimes largely adulterated, even before it leaves 
China, everybody knows coloured with Prussian blue 
and suchlike pigments, made rough and racy with im- 
palpable steel filings, mixed with second-hand dried tea- 
leaves, that have done duty already. Your best chance 
of getting a good article is to go to a first-rate house, 
whose head is a man with a conscience. 

Next, before putting your tea into the pot, lay it 
before a bright clear fire on a metal plate silver, or 
pewter, or iron (if you have neither of the former, not 
on brass or copper) and let it get thoroughly hot, so 
hot, that it would crumble to dust between your finger 
and thumb. Then scald your teapot very hot, so that 
none of the caloric may be lost when you afterwards 
pour your boiling water upon the tea. N.B. Always 
use an earthenware teapot porcelain or china if you 
can afford it, but, any way, earthenware, and not a metal 
one. No amount of washing or rinsing out will keep 
the inside of a metal one clean, not even the use of soda 
and hot water : it will always remain more or less furred 
with the deposit left by trie hundreds or thousands of 
cups of tea already made in it, and that will, of course, 
in a greater or less degree, spoil and vitiate the taste of 
the fresh tea. All professional tea-tasters, I believe, use 
little earthenware cups or mugs, when employed in tea- 
tasting. Well, then, after scalding your teapot tho- 
roughly hat, put in your tea, in about the proportion of 
one tea-spoonful of tea to a little more than a wine-glass- 
ful of water. Then take yoitr teapot to the fire, and 
pour in the requisite quantity of water from the kettle as 
it boils on the fire, sloping your kettle's spout cleverly 
over and into your teapot. Do not take the kettle off 
the fire and carry it yards away to the teapot ; otherwise 
the kettle " goes off the boil," and your tea is made only 



APPENDIX. 65 



with hot and not with boiling water ; and boiling water 
is one of the very first requisites for making good tea. 
The instant you have sufficient boiling water on the tea, 
stir it up with a tea-spoon, put the lid on the teapot, let 
it stand some great authorities say, two minutes only, 
anyway not more than four minutes pour it all out, 
drink it, and throw away the leaves, or keep them, if you 
like, to help to keep the dust down when your sitting- 
room carpets are brushed. On no account follow the 
ridiculous habit of putting in what is called "second 
water." 

So you will have a cup o/ tea such as you have never 
dreamt of; but do not expect any servant to take this 
amount of trouble. You must do it yourself, if you 
wish to have first-rate tea, or get the wife (j)lacens uxor) 
or child, to do it for you. Of course you will appreciate 
the flavour of the tea infinitely better without adding 
sugar or milk. They are seldom or never used in either 
of the two great tea -drinking countries, China and 
Russia. You can experience, if you like, a new, and, to 
my mind, a very pleasant sensation, by putting a thin 
slice or two of freshly-cut lemon into the teapot itself, 
before pouring the boiling water into it, or into your 
tea-cup, before filling it with tea. Then use sugar or not, 
according to your taste, but certainly not milk. 

N.B. By allowing the boiling water to remain upon 
your tea more than four minutes, at most, you will only 
spoil the aroma of it, by thereby drawing out the flavour 
of the woody parts or fibre of the leaf, and so ruining 
the delicate aroma of the leaf itself. In especial, never 
boil your tea, as they dementedly do in Australia, where, 
during the six or seven months I was there, I never 
once tasted a decently good cup of tea. Use rain water, 
if you can get it, to make tea with ; or if you must use 
hard London water, then add a little carbonate of soda 
to it, or, some say, add one drop of Condy's fluid to a 
F 



66 RULES OF SIMPLE HYGIENE. 

pint of water. It makes the water much softer, and 
assists in drawing out the flavour of the tea. 

How to make a First-rate Cup of Coffee. 

Whatever price you are able or inclined to give for 
your coffee, buy it anyway in the berry, and not ready 
ground : so you will avoid all chance of its adulteration 
with chicory, burnt beans, ground bone-dust, and, horresco 
referens, of sawdust of coffin-wood. Of course, if you 
have no roasting machine, such as one sees all over 
France (little mills turned by the hand over a charcoal 
brazier), then do your best to buy it freshly roasted. 
The more recently it has been roasted the better the 
flavour will be. If you buy anything like a large 
quantity at a time, then do not keep it in tin or in lead, 
least of all in paper, but put it into large glass bottles 
empty bottles that have held French plums or prunes, 
with wide mouths. Put your coffee into these ; stop 
them with a cork bung, with a bit of washleather round 
the bung to make it fit very tight ; fill the bottles as full 
as they will hold with coffee, and cork them tight : so 
you will keep the coffee from the air, and prevent it 
from losing its flavour. Take just as much out as you 
want to use each time, and grind it in a coffee mill 
not too fine just before using it. 

N.B. Keeping your coffee from the air goes a great 
way towards having it really fit to drink. Next, after 
grinding it, either scorch it quite hot before a clear 
bright fire, or, better still, put the required quantity into 
the coffee pot (not metal, but earthenware), jug, or coffee- 
cup (if you are going to make no more than one 
cupful), and make the coffee and the pot together 
thoroughly hot before pouring the boiling water upon it ; 
then take the jug, pot, or cup to the fire, pour the boiling 
water upon it from the kettle as it boils on the fire, stir 
it up with a spoon, let it stand on the hob to settle for 
a few minutes, fine it with the white of an egg if you 



APPENDIX. 67 



like, or with a lump or two of white sugar, pour it into 
a cup or cups, and drink it and rejoice. If you take 
milk with it, then let the milk too be hot. Cold milk 
does not go well with hot coffee. 

The Turks and Arabs and few nations make better 
coffee, judice me, than they just boil the water, then 
throw in their coffee, coarsely ground, stir it up for three 
or four seconds in the boiling water, pour it into a pot, 
and let it stand and simmer, not boil, for a minute or 
two by the fireside, and serve it up grains and all 
simply de-li-ci-ous ! 

Of course, as with tea, jase soft water, or distilled 
water, if you can get it, not the vile hard London water, 
to make your coffee with. 

Hints on making and keeping up a Sitting- 
room, or Bed-room Fire. if you wish to make and 

keep up a fire in your sitting-room, or bed-room, with 
the least waste of coal, the greatest amount of heat given 
out, and the smallest quantity of smoke and dust, then 
act in the manner the most diametrically opposite to that 
invariably taken by the (probably) most unteachable of 
all European human beings (the English mechanic, "or 
workman, " on strike," always excepted), viz. the English 
domestic housemaid. 

Place a sufficiency of lumps of coal, not too large, and 
laid on separately at the bottom of the fire-grate ; on 
these next lay your chips, or sticks, for the most part 
cross-wise, so as to admit a current of air between them, 
and not shovelled in indiscriminately ; on them place 
your paper, which press down gently, after lighting it 
with the poker or shovel. Your fire will then burn 
bright and clear, downwards and not upwards, and the 
coals, as they ignite, will give off their smoke in such a 
manner as to make it pass through the red-hot embers 
of the wood, and be thereby ignited and consumed, 
instead of going up the chimney, wasted in the shape of 



68 RULES OF SIMPLE HYGIENE. 

soot, to the detriment of the air in the neighbourhood of 
your house, and the befoulment of your chimney. As 
soon as the whole mass is well alight, lay lumps of coal 
in the front of the grate, not shovelled on the back of 
the fire, as is the common, most mistaken fashion. 
Then, as the coals become heated, and give off their 
smoke, the smoke will catch fire in passing over the hot 
embers at the back, and you will have a bright clear 
blaze with plenty of warmth thrown out into your room, 
and with the least amount of wasted carbon. As long 
as you maintain the fire, continue to stoke it in the 
same manner, laying the coals in front, and not behind, 
and introducing from time to time a shovelful of small 
coals between the second and third bars of the grate. 
My acknowledgments for the greater part of the above, 
are due to an article I read many years ago in The 
Builder whose advice, to the benefit of my health and 
my comfort, and the cleanliness of my chimney, I have 
invariably followed whenever I had the chance. 



APPENDIX TO PART II. 

HINTS AND REMEDIES FOR THE TREATMENT 
OF COMMON ACCIDENTS AND DISEASES. 

Ague. With all the care in the world you may not be 
able in certain localities (such as some parts of Norfolk, 
the Campagna of Italy, or, if you are a sailor, when 
lying off the mouth of some malarious river) entirely to 
escape this wearing and weakening complaint ; but you 
may do a good deal in the way of guarding against it. 
For instance, if you are at Rome in the malaria season, 
sleep in the highest room in the house you can get to, 
not down below on the first or second floor. The 
" miasmata " i.e. foul air exhalations, that produce 
ague are always worse at night than during the day. 
Don't be out late in the evening, and don't go out early 
in the morning without a good breakfast, or, at any rate, 
not without a cup of coffee, or a glass of wine and a bit 
of bread. Live well, or something more, while you are 
in the ague district, and take, say two or three grains of 
quinine daily in a little diluted sulphuric acid, and, if 
you must be out of doors, and exposed to the malaria, 
wear a respirator over both nose and mouth. If you 
can't get one or make one for yourself, then fasten a bit 
of gauze, or, faute de mieux, wear a handkerchief, tied 
over the nose and mouth. If, in spite of all care, ague 
will and does come on, then, during the cold fit, keep 
the patient in bed ; do all you can to restore warmth to 
the body, both by rubbing the hands and feet and by 
giving warm drinks, such as hot tea or coffee, warm 
barley water, or white wine whey. During the hot fit, 



70 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

after the patient feels relieved by the perspiration, then 
gradually check it by sponging the body with lukewarm 
water, wiping the sweat off with warm flannels, and 
giving cold iced, if you can get them drinks, to relieve 
the thirst. Take good care that he does not expose 
himself to a draught of cold air. 

Then, for medicine, begin with a pretty strong opening 
dose at bed-time, such as two or three grains of calomel 
combined with eight or ten of rhubarb, made up into two 
pills ; or, if you can get it made up, the following pill 
will do : 

I Pulv. Ipecac. . . . gr. ss. 

Pil. Hydrarg. . . . gr. iss. 

Pil. Rhei co. .... gr. iii. 
Misce. ft. pil. 

Only don't give Epsom salts. A distinguished physi- 
cian of one of our large hospitals writes me word : " I 
should prefer 2 grains of calomel and 8 or 10 grains of 
compound colocynth pill (made up into two pills) as a 
preliminary to the quinine ; and a hint as to providing 
yourself, if possible, with real and pure quinine would 
be useful ; for sorry trash is often put into a ship's medi- 
cine chest, which prevents any good accruing. There is 
a soluble quinine to be had now, which readily dissolves 
in water without acid. I always travel with this." Then 
next day, either between the intermission of the fits, give, 
every four or six hours, two or even three grains of the 
sulphate of quinine in a wine-glass of water, with a little 
diluted sulphuric acid say, four drops to dissolve it (as 
it won't dissolve in water alone) or else give ten grains 
of the sulphate of quinine in solution during the hot fit, 
followed by two-grain doses three times during the day.. 
If you are at sea, where you can't get diluted sulphuric 
acid, or infusion of roses, which does even better, then 
dissolve the quinine in elixir of vitriol twice as many 
drops as there are grains of quinine and dilute with 
water ; add, if it is to be had, a drachm of the tincture of 



APPENDIX. 71 



orange peel and a drachm of the syrup of orange peel. But 
these last two the tincture and the syrup of orange peel 
are refinements ; the quinine it is that will work the cure. 

Amputation of Finger End. in case you 

should be so unfortunate, or (in case you can do any 
good} so fortunate as to be at sea, on board a merchant 
steamer carrying no surgeon, when some unlucky sailor 
or fireman, driving the steam winch, gets the end or 
more of his finger or his thumb crushed in the cogs of 
one of the wheels ; then, supposing you have tolerable 
nerve, and that no one knows better what to do than 
yourself, act as follows : 

First and foremost, don't try amputation if there is a 
possibility of saving the end of the finger or thumb by all 
that you know in the way of dressing and care. Either 
place the crushed finger or hand in a poultice, and 
watch probably nature will throw off the destroyed 
parts, and save the rest ; or else restrain the bleeding 
first by pressure of your finger on the vein or the small 
artery that seems to bleed most, and by the application of 
a stream of cold water poured from a jug, or better, from 
the spout of a small kettle, held some six or eight inches 
above the damaged finger ; and dress the place with wet 
lint, double or treble ; or, better, with a bit of lint steeped 
in friar's balsam, if there be any on board ; and, above 
it, apply two or three folds of lint wet with cold water. 
Then put a bandage over the lint, not too tight ; put 
the hand and arm in a sling ; bid the patient keep perfectly 
quiet, and, if you like, give him a mild sleeping draught, 
such as 20 drops of Battley's sedative, or 25 of laudanum, 
in a wine-glass of water, and put him to bed. Don't dis- 
turb the dressing on the finger for two or three days ; 
but, if the place be very painful, keep it constantly wet. 

Should the end of the finger or thumb be utterly 
crushed, with what is called ** a comminuted fracture " 
that is, the bone broken into several pieces or should 
the end of it be projecting beyond the flesh, sharp and 



72 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

ragged, so that it is plain that nothing can save the rest 
of the finger except amputating it, then only take off as 
little as possible. " Conservatism " is a grand thing in 
surgery, whatever it be in politics. 

In all cases it is much easier for you to amputate at 
the joint (either at the first, reckoning from the finger 
end, or at the second, if necessary) than in the length of 
one of the three parts of the finger, especially as you will 
have no bone-cutting forceps on board. 

Manage thus : Get hold firmly, with a bit of lint 
between your left finger and thumb, of the end length, 
^pr the second length (as may be required), of the crushed 
ringer, and bend it to a right angle, or nearly so, with the 
next bone of the finger. Then put the lower end, or heel, 
of your penknife (and mind and have it made very sharp) 
at the side of the joint, just half-way in the thick part of 
the next length, or division, of the finger ; draw the knife 
horizontally across the joint, which will then fly open, if 
you cut neatly and cleverly through the side ligaments ; 
then pass the knife through the joint, and cut a flap, as 
it is called z>. a good thickness of flesh and skin to 
fold and wrap over the end of the bare stump, from the 
inside surface of that length of the finger you are ampu- 
tating ; and take great care that the flap be long enough 
to cover the stump easily, so that there be no tension. 
Unless you have a proper pair of little forceps to get 
hold of it with, don't attempt to tie any small artery that 
may bleed, but check the bleeding with cold water ice 
if you can get it. Bring the flap over the stump, stitch 
it with two or three stitches, and dress it over with wet 
lint. Put the patient on a low diet for a day or two ; no 
beer and no spirits ; keep his bowels moderately open : 
lend him an amusing book to read, and hope for the 
best. If matter forms, put on a poultice. 

Antidote for Flea-bite, Bug-bite, etc. I have 

never found the following recipe fail, and I have travelled 
in many very flea-bitten, bug-bitten, and mosquito-bitten 



APPENDIX. 73 



countries. In Jerusalem in particular, during the height 
of summer, I have seen my bed pretty well alive with 
fleas, and have swept them out with my hands before 
going to bed. In the excavations or vaults in Mount 
Moriah, known by the name of " Solomon's Stables," 
I have seen my clothes pretty well covered with them ; 
and in Athens I have witnessed, at the early dawn, the 
bugs leaving my bed and crawling up the bedposts by 
the score, " ne dicam " by the hundred, and in neither 
place was I bitten once. I adopted the following anti- 
dote, formed on what I heard of as being done in 
Hungary, a land much vexed in the summer-time by 
fleas and so on. I oiled myielf all over from head to 
foot with the best sweet or olive oil, and those parts of 
my back that I could not effectually get at myself, I got 
oiled for me by the help of a friend or of a servant. Rub 
the oil well in with the palm of your hand over the whole 
body head, face, and all in a warm room, before a 
fire if possible, in case it be winter-time, and you may 
such is my experience and without this precaution I 
am a martyr to fleas defy either flea, bug, or mosquito. 
It is quite a mistake to suppose that oiling oneself with 
sweet oil is a nasty dirty operation. The oil sinks into 
the skin at once, and does not stain either cotton or 
linen. The only effect is, that you feel very lithe and 
supple (the Greeks and Romans knew what they were 
after, when they oiled themselves before gymnastic 
exercises), and it enables you to defy the murderous 
or at the least sanguinary attacks of your creeping, 
crawling, and skipping enemies. 

Antidote to Blisters on the Feet from Walk- 
ing. Of course, for long walks, particularly when on a 
walking-tour, wear well-fitting shoes, or half-boots (tiot 
new ones), with broad fronts, so as not to pinch the toes 
together, or lay the foundation of ingrowing toe-nails, on 
which trouble, see below, the article on " Ingrowing Nails." 
Also, never wear cotton socks or stockings for long walks, 



74 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

or indeed at all, if you are wise, but either lamb's-wool 
or thick worsted. Next, before you start in the morning, 
turn them inside out, and rub the wh"ble of the foot of 
the sock or stocking with a piece of the commonest, 
coarsest, yellow soap you can get, first gently moistened 
enough to make a thick, damp lather over the sock, but 
not so wet as to make the foot feel wet and uncomfortable. 
This will keep your feet perfectly cool, and you will not 
provided that your shoes also " fit," as they should, 
"like wax" turn a single blister during the longest 
day's walk. Such is my experience, often and often 
tested. I did the distance between Ballachulish and 
Inveraray, on one occasion, within the twenty-four hours, 
on foot, and did not turn a single blister ; nor have I 
ever done so in my many walking-tours in Switzerland 
or elsewhere, when I adopted this precaution. 

1. Bed-SOreS. The senior surgeon of one of the 
largest hospitals in London told me that he preferred 
using a plaster, moderately thick, of finely-powdered chalk 
(creta pr&paratd) and spirit (whisky as good as any), 
spread over the sore, to any other method of treating 
this painful and troublesome affection. It should be 
washed off clean once a day, and fresh plaster put on. It 
answers admirably in preventing a threatening sore place. 

2. Bleeding from Cuts and Wounds. A 
good plan of stopping bleeding, when it does not come 
from a large artery or vein, is to lay a cobweb over the 
wound. The blood congeals in its meshes, and thus 
an air-tight covering is formed, under which the wound 
heals nicely. 

Broken Collar-bone, or Fractured Clavicle. 

Adopt the treatment by the four -tailed bandage, be- 
cause it is so easily applied and does so well for children. 
Take a piece of calico fourteen inches wide, and 
sufficiently long to go twice round the body of the 
patient. Cut a hole in the centre, about four inches 
from the margin, for the point of the elbow. 



APPENDIX. 75 



Split up the ends of the bandage in the same line as 
the hole that is to say, four inches from the border to 
within about six inches of the hole. You will thus have 
a " four-tailed " bandage, with tails of unequal breadth, 
one four inches broad, the other ten. 

To APPLY. Set the fracture by drawing the shoulder 
upwards, outwards, and backwards ; place a triangular 
pad in the armpit, with its base upwards, and bring the 
arm down to the side and flex that is, bend the fore- 
arm on the side! By making the patient lie fiat on his 
back) on a board or a table, the broken collar-bone falls 
at once into good apposition. Now apply the bandage 
in such a manner that the rorht of the elbow shall stick 
into the hole, and the broad tail of the bandage be 
brought across the chest and fastened on the opposite 
side of the body, thus binding the arm to the side. The 
narrow tail, which will be below the elbow, is now to be 
crossed over the broad tail, and tied over the top of the 
opposite shoulder, thus 




76 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

Another, but not such a good, way : Take three 
handkerchiefs ; pass one under each axilla, or armpit, 
and tie it over the top of the shoulder. Tie these two 
handkerchiefs together by means of a third across the 
back. 

3. Bronchitis. In case you can get no proper 
doctor, apply linseed-meal poultices to the throat and 
chest, keeping one on, constantly warm, and changing it 
when it begins to lose its heat. Maintain also a warm 
damp atmosphere in the room ; and if you have no proper 
steaming-apparatus, then let " Polly put the kettle on " 
the fire, let it boil, and send its steam out into the room 
for the patient to inhale. You may, too, from time to 
time, bring the boiling kettle near the patient, and let 
him inhale some of the steam from its spout ; only don't 
bring it too near him. In case of giving medicine, you 
cannot go very wrong in the following prescription, if 
no medical man can be had to give a better one : Ipecac, 
wine, 10 or 15 drops in 3 tea-spoonfuls of Spirit of 
Mindererus, that is, in the solution of Acetate of am- 
monia. If Ipecac, wine is not to be had, then use, 
instead of it, half a tea-spoonful of Oxymel of squills. 
Take care, above everything, that your patient does not 
get a chill, or sit in a thorough draught, or the conse- 
quences may be very serious. 

Catarrh, or Cold. It is, of course, pretty nearly 
useless to -say, " Don't catch cold !" and perhaps almost 
as useless to add anything more to what I have said in 
the First Part of this pamphlet on the subject. Probably 
not more than one or two persons in a hundred, in this 
inclement climate, pass through a winter and spring 
without catching a cold, more or less severe ; and cer- 
tainly there is no complaint of which every one, generally 
speaking, does not think herself or himself entirely capable 
of being their own doctor. Still something, and a good 
deal too and I speak from personal experience (expert- 



APPENDIX. 77 



mentum in corpora vili} may be done towards ward- 
ing off an attack of this most common and troublesome 
little complaint very often, too, the commencement of, 
and the introduction to, something much more serious, 
such as bronchitis, pleurisy, and even phthisis ; and 
something may be done also towards expediting the de- 
parture or mitigating the severity of a bad cold, if not 
towards absolutely curing it. No protection against 
catching cold equals, I should say (humbly endorsing, 
in proprid persond, the dictum of Sir Thomas Watson, 
M.D., in his Principles and Practice of Physic), that 
afforded by the cold shower-bath every morning, and 
cold sponging the whole bouy every night. Begin the 
shower-bath, if you are weakly and timid, in the summer 
time, and with tepid water at first. You will soon get 
to bear it, and enjoy it too, quite cold. If you can get 
one. throw a large thick rough cotton not linen sheet, 
or large soft towel, over you, the instant you come out 
of your bath, and keep the caloric in ; then rub dry with 
a Turkish towel, and keep the sheet over your back till 
quite ready to put your flannels on. Of course, in any 
case, if you wish to avoid cold, rheumatism, lumbago, 
and so on, in our damp climate, wear flannel next the 
skin a first-rate flannel shirt, with no under-waistcoat 
a/so, and flannel drawers (keep two pairs in wear, wearing 
each pair on alternate days) ; I have always found it to 
be the most comforting and protecting wear far prefer- 
able to that of a flannel under-waistcoat, or woollen jersey, 
with a cotton or, worse still, a linen shirt over it. The 
effect of this latter, however nice and neat it may look, 
is to prevent the perspiration from passing off, and to 
keep the flannel next the skin continually damp and 
unwholesome. 

The comfort, and protection also, afforded by the use 
of a flannel night-3xa\. is, I am sure, also very great. If 
you come, as I do, from, or have to live in, a marshy 






78 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

and low swampy district, then add to the use of a flannel 
night-shirt the sleeping between the blankets, and wholly 
abjuring the use of sheets, above all of linen ones. The 
chances are that you will much profit by the practice. 
It is hardly necessary to mention such very simple and 
obvious precautions, in case you are very liable to take 
cold, as, to avoid all thorough cold draughts of air, 
particularly when in a perspiration ; not to hang about 
when a cutting east wind is blowing at the entrance or 
exit of a London underground railway station, or at any 
open hduse door at all ; not to sit or stand about, after 
you have got wet through, or have had your feet 
thoroughly damped, or wet, but immediately to change 
everything ; to wear a chest protector if you have a 
weak chest, and to abjure cotton socks or stockings, and 
to adopt worsted or lamb's-wool ones ; and to keep off all 
beer, wine, and especially spirits, when you have a cold. 
One may add, too, that if you are subject to catching 
cold, it is well worth the while to learn to breathe 
habitually by the nose instead of by the mouth, as people 
too often do, particularly if you have to go out in bitter 
weather, or when the east wind is blowing ; and do not^ 
immediately when you come in from the cold outer air, 
go and hang over a fire directly you enter the house. 

A very distinguished physician of one of our London 
hospitals writes me word : " I believe that many colds 
are caught by inspiring the dry, heated air of rooms in 
which gas is burnt immoderately, the products of its 
combustion being very irritating ; and then, after sitting 
for hours in these hot, close rooms, where no sort of 
attention is paid to ventilation, people go to bed in chilly, 
cold bedrooms, after undressing and cooling down." 

TREATMENT OF CATARRH, OR COLD. In case you 
*do catch a bad cold, you may probably cut it short, or, 
anyway, much hasten its departure, by one of the two 
following methods of treatment, either the Opiate cure. 



APPENDIX. 79 



or the Dry cure. The first of these I have used, once 
upon myself, for as bad an influenza as I ever knew any 
one to have, and very often on other people, with perfect 
success ; and the second is spoken of with much praise 
by Sir Thomas Watson, M.D. 

The Opiate Remedy. Though this has been men- 
tioned in the First Part of this pamphlet, it will bear 
repetition here. Take, directly the cold has made its 
presence felt, or anyway the same night, a moderate 
dose of any opiate you have conveniently at hand, such 
as from 20 to 25 drops of laudanum, or, better, of 
Battley's sedative, or \ of a grain of morphia. 

Make the dose stronger or 'weaker, according as you 
are in the habit of taking much wine or beer at your 
meals: put the dose of laudanum, or of Battley's sedative, 
into a tumbler of water, and take an hour or an hour and 
a half over drinking it ; sipping it as if it were wine and 
as if you liked it. Go to bed early, wrap up pretty 
warm in bed, don't get up or go out during the night, 
and you will probably wake in the morning quite well, 
and rid of your troublesome annoyance. N.B. This, 
the opiate treatment for a cold, would not be at all safe 
for you if you have anything like disease in the kidneys. 

The Dry Cure has, anyway, the merit of extreme 
simplicity, and requires only a little self-denial on your 
part if you elect to adopt it. It consists in just abstain- 
ing from all liquids for two or three days, allowing your- 
self at most a table-spoonful of milk at breakfast and 
a wine-glass of water at dinner, though you will probably 
get rid of your cold even quicker without these. If you 
don't like and won't adopt either of the above methods 
of treatment and I believe that either of them is nearly 
infallible then take some simple diaphoretic medicine : 
say, from ten to fifteen grains of Dover's powder in a 
little preserve when you go to bed ; and during the cfoy- 
time take a table-spoonful of Spirit of Mindererus that 






8o HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

is, the solution of acetate of ammonia (liquor ammon. 
acet.) in a wine-glass of water three times a day, or 
else the following mixture : 

ty Liq. Ammon. Acet. . iv. 

Syrupi Simplicis. . . . . j. 

Aquse florum Aurantii . . . . 5j. 

Aquas ad ...... Bviij. 

An eighth part to be taken three times a day. 

Either of these will pretty certainly help you to get 
rid of your cold, and, if you are simple enough to believe 
it, will cure you. 

4- Concussion of the Brain. This is the result 
of a very heavy fall, or of a violent blow on the head. 
Smell the patient's breath, and make quite sure that it 
is not drunkenness which is the -cause of his state of 
insensibility. If his breath smells strong of spirit, and 
if he can be roused for a minute or two by shouting to 
him, you may conclude he is drunk ; but if his skin is 
cold and damp, and he is in a state of " coma," and 
cannot be even partially roused from insensibility by 
shouting and bawling to him, and if the pupils of the 
eye be also contracted, you may safely conclude that he 
has concussion, or compression (which is far worse still) 
of the brain. If you cannot get a doctor, put the patient 
to bed at once, shave his head, and keep him perfectly 
quiet, and let no one come near him. You can do no 
harm by putting hot bottles to his feet and under the 
calves of his legs, and if his system be not too depressed, 
you can put cold evaporating lotions or ice to his head. 
Anything more must be left to a proper surgeon. 

5- Diarrhoea. In case you can get it made up, the 
following is an excellent recipe, given in the Westm. 
Hospital Pharmacopoeia, p. 12, No. 19, for this com- 
plaint : Fifteen drops of diluted sulphuric acid, ten 
drops of laudanum, twenty drops of essence of ginger, 
and one ounce of cinnamon water. This is the quantity 



APPENDIX. 81 



for one dose. Two, or at most three doses, taken at the 
interval of two hours, will probably stop the complaint. 

6. Delirium Tremens. This is the result of a 
long course of drinking, aggravated and brought to a 
head by some recent debauch. You can tell what the 
patient is suffering from, by his breath stinking of spirits, 
his tongue being covered with a cream-like film, his wits 
being gone, his talking nonsense, and his belief that he 
sees strange creatures, beetles, mice, and so on ; his not 
being able to sleep, and his skin being covered with 
perspiration, and his hands twitching and trembling. At 
sea sometimes I have seen a sailor endeavouring to 
throw himself overboard, und^er the terror of imagining 
that he saw strange and horrible sights. Use as little 
violence as possible, employ only gentle compulsion, and 
try and soothe and quiet the patient by kind words, 
keeping him as quiet as possible, and, if you can manage 
it, in a darkened room. Keep up his strength by nour- 
ishing food in a liquid form yolks of eggs, beef tea, 
soups and flavour them with a pretty strong sprinkling 
of cayenrte pepper, capsicum heads, that is, about half a 
tea-spoonful, to a quarter of a pint of soup or beef-tea : 
go on with this diet for some days till he is better. 
Should he be very flushed and bloated in appearance, 
and have a very filthy tongue, and his breath be very 
foul, then begin with a pretty strong purge say, nearly 
a wine-glassful of tincture of rhubarb, or a table-spoonful 
of castor oil. Do not give any laudanum or opium, 1 

1 Since the above was put into type, and after it had reached 
the third revise, I received the following from an authority of 
the highest eminence, Senior Medical Officer of one of the 
very largest hospitals in London. He writes as follows : 
" After bowels have acted, give 40 drops of laudanum, and 
repeat the dose in an hour, if patient be not quiet. It is of 
the last importance to stop delirium at the onset, by a large dose 
of opium." 

G 



82 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

but apply cold douches to the head, and, above all, do 
not try to bleed him. 

7. Erysipelas. Give a good strong saline purgative 
dose, such as sixty grains of sulphate of magnesia along 
with ten grains of carbonate of magnesia and an ounce 
of peppermint water (and if you cannot get that, plain 
water) to begin with. In case you are where there is no 
medicine chest, then take half a tumblerful of sea water 
before breakfast instead. 

Follow this up with fifteen to twenty drops of what 
is called the tincture of steel that is, " Tr. Ferri 
Perchlor." bottle, in the medicine chest, so labelled, or 
else " Liquor Ferri Perchlor," which is a good deal 
stronger combined with three grains of quinine, three 
times a day, and powder the part affected over with fine 
flour, or else cover it with cotton wool sprinkled with 
flour, or else with the oxide of zinc powder, if it be 
within reach. 

Painting the inflamed part over with collodion is the 
practice in some of our hospitals, and limiting the spread 
of the inflammation by pencilling it round with a stick of 
nitrate of silver, that is, caustic. 

Anything in the way of making incisions, which, alas ! 
are sometimes necessary, must be left to a professional 
surgeon. N.B. Do not apply any cold lotion, or any 
wet fomentation whatever to the part affected. 

Of course, should you be at sea, altogether out of the 
reach of any professional man, and the extreme tension 
of the skin of the inflamed part shows the absolute need 
of making an incision, then take care that your penknife 
be very sharp and very clean, and mind that you cut 
sufficiently deep, and plug the wound with a bit of lint 
or clean rag. 

Gout. Add to what has been said oh this complaint 
in the First Part of this pamphlet, that, in case you are 
out of the reach of a qualified doctor, you cannot do 



APPENDIX. 83 






better than follow the advice of Sir T. Watson, M.D., 
given in his charming lectures on the Principles and 
Practice of Physic, vol. ii. lect. Ixxxii. p. 769, as 
follows: " Colchicum, judiciously employed, may be 
fairly accounted a specific for the gouty paroxysms. . . . 
The mode of administering the remedy in a regular fit 
cf the gout is simple enough. Give forty or sixty 
minims (i.e. drops) of the vinunt colchici in a saline 
draught at bedtime, and half a drachm more in a warm 
black dose the next morning, and repeat this sequence 
if the gout continue. Some give twenty minims every 
six hours, with a drachm of Epsom salts and a drachm 
of syrup of poppies in the draught, till the symptoms 
yield ; but I prefer the other plan. In this way the 
pain is usually calmed and the swelling reduced in a few 
days, or even, as by a charm, in a few hours. . . . To 
eradicate the lurking residue of the mischief, continue to 
give small doses of the colchicum, five minims of the 
vinum colchici, two or three times a day for a while. 
Moreover, mild purgatives must be employed if that 
remedy does not prove aperient. Adopt at the same 
time and pursue abstinent, or at any rate, strictly tem- 
perate habits in respect to meat and wine." In case 
you are out of the reach of a chemist's shop, and have 
only the ship's medicine chest at hand, then, for the 
saline draught referred to above, in which to take the 
mnum colchici, use the following recipe : Sixty grains of 
sulphate of magnesia, twenty grains of carbonate of 
magnesia, with an ounce that is, nearly a wine-glassful 
of peppermint water ; and if you can't get thai, then, 
of plain water distilled, if you can get it. In case you 
can get at a chemist's shop, but can not get at a regular 
doctor, or cartt afford to pay for one, then to spare your- 
self the trouble, copy out, and get it made up, and take, 
either of the two following recipes. Both are taken from 
different Hospital Pharmacopoeias ; 



1 aa n xx. 



84 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

fy Vini Colchici fl. 3iij. 

Magnes. Carb. . . . . . gr. cL 

Magnes. Sulph. . . . . . 5ss. 

Infus. Caryophyl. . . . fl. Bxiss. 

Dose fl. Bj to fl. Sij. 
Or else this : 
] Pot. Bicarb. . . . . . gr. xv. 

Tinct. Colch. Sem. . , 
Tinct. Hyoscyam. . . . 

Aq. Menth. Vir. .... 5j. 

N.B. This last recipe is for one dose only. 
8. Housemaids' Knees. If you are a seafaring 
man, or a chambermaid, do not on any account scrub 
or wash decks or floors, in especial not stone floors, on 
your bare knees, so to say. Get a mat or an old 
cushion, or an old bolster, or something soft to kneel 
upon, and save your knees. Disregard of this precau- 
tion may very likely tend to produce that painful com- 
plaint, called " housemaids' knees," and, in a person of 
a scrofulous tendency, to that dangerous affection called 
" white swelling " of the knee, for which there is no 
cure but the hospital surgeon's knife. For housemaids' 
knees, the first treatment is, paint over with tincture of 
iodine once in the twenty-four hours, and if the swelling 
and inflammation increase, then lay up the leg, and apply 
linseed-meal poultices three times a day. Mind and 
keep the bowels open, and do not even dream of going 
on your knees again, till quite well, and then only 
sparingly. 

Indigestion, or Dyspepsia. in case you are 

troubled with this wearisome complaint (which, if you 
do not attend to it, will go far towards making your life 
a burden), and cannot get at, or cannot afford to pay 
for, a good doctor's advice, you cannot go far wrong in 
attending to the following hints : Rise early and, accord- 
ing to your age, health, and strength, get a walk in the 



APPENDIX. 85 



purest air in your reach, more or less long, before 
breakfast. Eat your meals as slowly as you can, and 
take small mouthfuls ; chew your food well before swal- 
lowing it. ' Unless you are old, feeble, and infirm, follow 
Abernethey's capital rule, of " allowing three (at least) to 
five hours between each meal, with nothing to eat be- 
tween them, and one" hour more for the stomach to take 
holiday in ; " and sit still and chat to your family or 
friends, or read a newspaper for ten minutes or more, 
after every meal, leaning back in a comfortable arm- 
chair; and do not begin immediately after meals to 
bend over a table and write letters, still less to run 
about. Most of all, never ^take your meals standing, 
and ruin your digestion, as ships' stewards and ships' 
cooks are in the habit of doing by that insane practice. 

Of course, live simply ; avoid all salted and cured 
meats, such as ham, tongue, sausages, salt beef, and so 
forth ; and, in especial, eschew new bread, pastry of all 
sorts, pie-crust, and all sweets and *' nastiness." Meat, 
one of the very first physicians of the day Sir Thomas 
Watson considers to be more easy of digestion than 
vegetables ; and mutton, for the generality of people, 
more so than beef; pork less digestible than either, and 
veal least so of all ; and brown bread he w sely considers 
to be far preferable to white. 

Avoid late suppers, and most particularly eschew the 
habit, so much now indulged in, of taking a "night- 
cap " that is, a glass of spirits and water before 
going to bed, to the ruin of your kidneys, your heart, 
and your liver. While suffering from indigestion, you 
had a deal better give up beer, and other malt liquors, 
and substitute a little light claret, or a very small quantity 
of very weak whisky and water, with your meals, but never 
at any other time. If you are a smoker, I recommend 
you great moderation in the habit, as long as you are 
dyspeptic. The after -breakfast pipe will probably do 



86 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

you the least amount of harm. Certainly do not smoke 
much, if at all, directly after dinner. If you must take 
something at night, let it be a few stewed prunes, or a 
fig or two, or half a fresh ripe apple cut small and dhewed 
well ; and if you can't get a ripe apple, then a Normandy 
pippin stewed in hot water. 

If attention to diet alone won't give you relief from 
your torment, then try a glass of cold water first thing 
in the morning, half an hour or an hour before break- 
fast, or a tea-spoonful of lenitive electuary (sold by all 
chemists), or a few grains of rhubarb or aloes, or a little 
cayenne pepper made up into a pill with bread crumb, 
just before dinner. Of course, besides allowing a good 
long interval between each meal, be careful not to gorge 
yourself & any meal, but rather finish your dinner a little 
hungry, than end it with a sense of having over-eaten 
yourself. One need hardly add, take a fair amount of 
wholesome exercise every day, either walking, riding, or 
rowing ; only do not over-tire yourself. I have always 
found half an hour's mild, not over-violent, gymnastics 
at a gymnasium very beneficial, with from four to eight, 
or ten, miles walking or rowing every day; and I do 
not "know what indigestion means." 

Finally, if you must and will take medicine, and 
can't or won't go to a good doctor, then you may try 
the following recipe, from one of the Hospital Pharma- 
copoeias. Anyway, it can't hurt you, and may do you 
good : 

^ Bismuthi Subnit. . . . gr. x. 

Pulv. Tragacanth. co. . . gr. xv. 

Infus. Gent. co. ... 5j. 

This is enough for one dose. You may take it twice a day, 
or, if you find you need it, and it does you good, thrice. 

9. Inflammation of the Bowels. You can 

guess that this or something like it is the matter with 
the sick person, by there being intense pain in the pit 



APPENDIX. 87 



of the stomach, its being swelled, with the skin drawn 
tight over it, and its being excessively tender to the 
touch. The sick person, too, will lie continually on his 
back, with his knees drawn up to relieve the pain ; his 
pulse, too, will be very feeble, and very quick ; and his 
tongue will be foul and creamy. 

Apply hot linseed -meal, or bran, poultices over the 
whole stomach, and vary them with bits of flannel wrung 
out in hot water and sprinkled with turpentine, and with 
plenty of laudanum on them. Put a fresh one on as 
soon as the other gets cold. You will not go far wrong 
by giving him a hot hip bath every three or four hours, 
and then replacing the poultice*. Give i grain of opium 
or ^ of a grain of morphia, every three or four hours, 
but do not awake him to give him his medicine if he be 
asleep. Feed him on the simplest of simple diet 
milk, if you can get it. 

In case he is very sick and can keep nothing down, 
endeavour to inject slowly some good strong soup, or 
beef tea, up the anus, a little at a time. Give no purga- 
tive medicine, but let him have plenty of barley-water 
or cold lemonade to drink. When he gets better, and 
his stomach can bear the pressure, roll his body up 
pretty firmly in nice clean flannel, and of course keep 
him very quiet. Sit constantly by him and talk cheer- 
fully to him, or repeat poetry by heart to him, but don't 
let him talk, or answer you, or do anything in the way 
of exerting himself a piece of advice which, by the way, 
is applicable to pretty nearly all cases of illness. 

10. Ingrowing Nail. First and foremost, give up 
wearing the absurd tight boot or shoe that has been the 
sole cause of this painful it may be dangerous affection. 
In the next place, do not attempt to give it relief by 
cutting away the nail, where it eats into the flesh of the 
toe by the side, but proceed to thin the middle of the 
nail, its whole length, by scraping it with a penknife, or, 



88 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

better still, with a bit of broken glass, doing it gingerly 
and tenderly, till you have made the middle of the nail 
quite thin. You can also, if you can do it neatly, cut 
the fore part of the nail into a crescent shape bending 
inwards, leaving the corners of the nail quite alone. Of 
course, if, when you are better, you return to the ridi- 
culous sharp-pointed boots and shoes, instead of adopting 
sensible ones with broad roomy fronts, you may expect 
a repetition of this painful complaint. 

The Itch or " Scabies." This very unfashionable 
and highly contagious affection (that is, contagious, as 
caught a contactu, from the touch of a diseased person, 
or from touching something that has been in contact 
with his skin) is not confined as most people suppose, to 
" the Great Unwashed," but may be contracted by the 
most decent and cleanly man or woman possible ; and 
it worft get well of itself. It generally begins at the 
bottom of the fingers or thumbs, and makes itself known 
by little vesicles with a rosy-coloured base, and by the in- 
tolerable itching it causes, which will extend, if neglected, 
to the whole of the body except the head, and which 
always gets worse when the patient is warm in bed. 

Riib sulphur ointment, which is a certain cure for it, 
all over the body at bedtime, especially on the parts 
most affected ; sleep in a flannel night-shirt and flannel 
drawers, or, if you have not them, then in a blanket, 
which destroy after your cure is effected. You had best 
not rest content with one rubbing only, but repeat it for 
two or three days, each night and morning. Then get 
a hot bath and scour well over with soap thoroughly, 
and the cure will be complete. Burn, or sink in a pond, 
weighted with a large stone, all the clothes you have 
worn next your skin while you had the malady. Don't 
on any account give the clothes away to any other 
person, or you will make him a present of the com- 
plaint too. 



APPENDIX. 89 



1 1. Jaundice. SYMPTOMS. Yellowness of the skin 
and of the white of the eyes. Motions, colour of pipe- 
clay. Urine, dark brown or green in tint. Loss of 
appetite, flatulence, sometimes sickness. CAUSES. In- 
temperance in liquors, over-eating, constipation, exposure 
to cold, obstruction in gall-duct from a gall-stone. 
TREATMENT. Low diet, milk, arrowroot ; no stimulants, 
slops ; linseed and mustard poultices over the pit of the 
stomach. Give a dose of blue pill and colocynth at 
night, and half a Seidlitz powder in a tumbler of water 
three or four times a day, for a week or more. If there 
has been severe pain in the belly for a day or two before 
the jaundice comes on, and ,also severe vomiting, the 
disorder is probably due to the passage of a gall-stone 
out of the gall-bladder. In this case, use hot bath, and 
give doses of laudanum (10 to 20 drops every three 
hours for an adult) till the pain is relieved. Employ 
hot fomentations to the belly, and give iced milk ({/"you 
can get it) and soda-water to drink. During convales- 
cence, beware of exposure to cold and any intemperance 
in diet. 

12. Stings of Wasps, Bees, etc. Observe that 

spirits of hartshorn, diluted with twice its bulk of water, 
destroys the virus of the sting of wasps, bees, etc. etc., 
and at once removes the pain. 

St. Vitus' Dance, or Chorea. If you are where 
you can get no doctor's advice, or where you can get no 
admission for yourself or your child, if she it be that is 
affected into a hospital, then begin by clearing out 
the bowels with a pretty active dose of opening medicine, 
and go on with it, if it continues to bring away much 
foul matter. Take, or give, a shower-bath every morning, 
beginning it with tepid that is, with lukewarm water, 
if you, or your child, as the case may be, cannot stand 
it cold at first ; but the strengthening and invigorating 
effect of the cold shower-bath is what you or it needs. 



90 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

Get all the moderate fresh-air, out-of-door exercise you 
can bear without fatigue, and take a fair, not a tiring 
amount of light, wholesome gymnastics. The safest 
medicine probably to take, if you can not get a doctor's 
advice, is carbonate of iron, mixed with twice its weight - 
of treacle, beginning with half- drachm doses, and in- 
creasing the quantity soon to a drachm and a. half, to be 
given twice or thrice a day. If the treacle is nauseous 
to the patient, then, if you can get it made up, you can 
use the following recipe, taken from one of the Hospital 
Pharmacopoeias : 

^ Ferri Sulphatis . . . . gr. iij. 
Acidi Sulphurici diluti . . m v. 
Infusi Quassiae . . . . fl. 5j. 

Keep the patient or yourself, if you be the person 
affected from all strong mental emotions. A distin- 
guished hospital physician obligingly writes me word : 
" Under Chorea I should add, that the patient should 
be fed with spoon food, and precluded from the use of 
a knife and fork. The disease is practically not one of 
adults." 

13- Sunstroke or Heatstroke. (^v.^. it may 

come on at night). In the first place, take all sensible 
precautions against this, by wearing a good, thick, felt 
hat, with a wide brim, or a pith helmet, such as our 
soldiers now wear in India, with a good broad flap of 
linen hanging down behind, so as to guard the nape of 
the neck. Cover the hat, too, with white calico, and do. 
not, if you can help it, expose the nape of the neck to 
the rays of a mid-day tropical sun. 

In case you are at sea, or elsewhere where you cannot 
get medical aid, act as follows (N.B. You will know 
that a man has sunstroke by his having a violent head- 
ache, being giddy, losing his senses, and by the snoring 
sound of his breathing) : Strip him of his outer clothes, 
lay him down with his head and shoulders a little rais.ed 



APPENDIX. 91 



and give him a cold douche, and plenty of it, by pouring 
jug after jug of water, from the height of three or four 
feet, on the top of his head, and down his spine ; or, 
better, apply an ice-bag, if you can get it, to the head. 
Sponge also his hands, feet, and chest with cold water. 
Keep him in a darkened room, and where, if possible, 
there is a nice cool draught, and let him be perfectly 
quiet and undisturbed. If he seems likely to sink alto- 
gether, put a blister or a mustard poultice on the nape 
of the neck, and administer strong beef-tea, or, if you 
can't get it, strong brandy and water, up the anus, slowly, 
by an enema. 

14. Varicose Veins. <That is, veins unnaturally 
swollen, in which the blood is stagnant, and shows black 
externally. 

In case you find yourself troubled with this it may 
be, if neglected dangerous infliction, stand still as little 
as possible, and, whenever you can, lay the affected leg 
or legs on a chair before you, or else, better still, lie on 
a sofa. In case you are an officer at sea, stand still on 
your watch as little as you can, and keep walking about 
to promote the circulation of the blood ; and, if you are 
a shopman or shopgirl, keep rising on your instep while 
waiting behind the counter, so as to give your veins all 
the chance you can of doing their duty. Immediately 
you perceive the complaint coming on, wear a bandage, 
neatly bound on, from the ankle up to the knee ; or, 
better still, a well-fitting elastic stocking (silk ones are 
the best), and do not, if you are foolish enough to prefer 
stockings to socks, garter them tight below the knee. Use 
also all the cold-water washing possible, night and morn- 
ing, and rub the veins affected well and often with a Turkish 
or other rough towel, and scour the affected parts of the 
legs frequently with a flesh-brush, if you can afford one. 
N.B. This complaint will never get any better, and may 
get much worse, if neglected, and if you persist in taking 



92 HINTS AND REMEDIES, ETC. 

no precautions against it. Should a vein burst, you 
may have" a month or six weeks' forced inaction and 
lying-up. Such things are very hard to heal. If a vein 
does burst, lie down flat, at once, and lay a pad of linen 
on the place and a compress on the vein below, not 
above, the wound, and bandage pretty tightly round all 
the limb near the place, and lay the leg up, and keep 
very quiet, or you will have a very bad time of it. 

How to give Chloroform in case no Doctor 

Can be had. In case you are at sea, with no surgeon 
on board, and you would fain still the agony to the 
patient, in having to amputate, at the first or second 
joint, some dreadfully crushed finger or thumb, then 
bear in mind that the administration of chloroform is 
preferable to, and safer than, that of ether, unless this 
last be given by a medical man. 

First : Do not give chloroform unnecessarily / for, 
even when given with every precaution, bear in mind 
that a certain, though very small, risk of death is in- 
curred. Let the patient take no food in any case no 
solid food for four hours before the operation. This 
will lessen the chance of his vomiting. First take off 
his boots or shoes, loosen his necktie, shirt-collar, and 
wristbands, and take care that there is nothing tight 
about his body. You want all the room and space you 
can get for his lungs and his heart to act freely. Then 
lay him on his back on a table, with his head on a low 
pillow, and let a man stand on each side of him to hold 
his arms ; for, if he be a strong, robust man, he will 
probably struggle ; if he be an intemperate man, he will 
certainly do so. A London hospital surgeon, now one 
of the examiners of the R.C.S., kindly writes me word 
as follows : " Though the low pillow is more comfort- 
able to the patient, yet, for my part, I always like to 
have my patient's head perfectly flat, without any pillow 
under it. I always think there is less chance of syncope." 



APPENDIX. 93 



Put about four table-spoonfuls of chloroform into a phial 
and keep it in your waistcoat pocket. Next fold a piece 
of lint, a foot long and four inches wide, thrice, and turn 
your phial upside down in the centre of this, with the 
lint covering the mouth of the phial, till you get a wet 
spot in the middle of it about the bigness of a penny- 
piece, and keep this spot constantly moist by applying 
the phial of chloroform to it occasionally. Hold the 
lint so that the wet spot be three inches from the patient's 
mouth and nostrils. Do not bid him to inhale it, or he 
may be frightened and begin to cough and choke ; but 
bid him to blow out strongly, while you bring the moist 
part of the bit of lint gradually nearer and nearer his 
lips and his nostrils. He cannot help then necessarily 
taking a deep inspiration each time after the puff he has 
given, so that all the air he breathes will pass over and 
through the moistened parts. The patient will probably 
struggle, kick, and talk nonsense. Restrain him without 
using much force, and as he moves his head, do you 
move the bit of lint in unison with it, and keep it close 
to, but not touching, his face. When you can pluck a 
hair out of his temples without his feeling it or flinching, 
then he is under the anaesthetic influence, and the opera- 
tion can begin. Give him then more air by removing 
the lint a little farther from him ; but do not take it 
away, unless he begins to snore. This sign always indi- 
cates that he has had as much as is at all safe for him, 
and you must remove the lint till the snoring ceases. 

During the operation, while the patient is under the 
influence of the chloroform, pay the greatest attention to 
his pulse and his lips. Don't take your eyes off his lips 
for a moment. Should these become purple, give him 
more air ; and should the breathing cease, take away the 
lint and throw open the doors and windows, and resort 
to artificial means of producing respiration, as given 
above, in the First Part of this pamphlet, in a case of 



94 HINTS AND REMEDIED ETC. 

drowning. (See there, article Drowmnj.) Should the 
patient become very pale, turn his head on one side, as 
this sign indicates that he is going to be sick, and put a 
towel or cloth under his face, that he may be sick upon 
it, and then go on with the inhalation. The pulse gener- 
ally increases, at first, in force and frequency of beats ; 
and you must take particular notice if it fails or becomes 
intermittent, as that is a symptom of danger, and you 
must instantly stop the chloroform and give all the air 
you can. In any case of danger or difficulty, open the 
patient's mouth wide and pull the tongue quite forward. 

Lastly, and most important, if any indication of faint- 
ing comes on, keep the patient's head low, and do not 
on any account raise it. A few drops of brandy gently 
poured between the gums and the teeth will trickle slowly 
down the throat and will improve the pulse, while any 
attempt to make the patient drink in the usual manner, 
will invariably bring on coughing. Remote the pillow 
at the same time. 

When the operation is over, and you wish to bring 
the patient to, open the doors and windows, and allow 
the cool air to play upon his face and his chest. It is 
sometimes, but rarely, needful to slap the face with a 
wet towel. 

The patient will be drowsy for some hours afterwards, 
and the best thing to do, for all reasons, is to let him 
sleep. 

N. #. Sucking a bit of rough ice, if you can get it, 
always allays the thirst and nausea, in case these should 
iollow. 



ON THE CHOICE, SITUATION, DRAINAGE, 
ETC., OF A HOUSE. 

By the Medical Officer of Health of one of the largest 
towns in England. 

i. Test of Drinking' Water. The danger of 

drinking water contaminated with organic matter is 
known to all. Such water may be clear, cool, spark- 
ling, and pleasant to the taste, and yet most injurious to 
health. The shallow wells attached to private houses, 
or used in villages and seaside places, are not unfre- 
quently polluted by surface impurities and sewage soak- 
age, and thus families, who go on their holiday for 
bathing and fresh country air, return too frequently with 
typhoid fever and diarrhoea. The cause is that the 
drinking water used in their lodgings has contained 
organic matter in solution. Before using any drinking 
water in your family, apply the following test : Place 
in a clear, colourless, glass-stoppered bottle half a pint of 
the water and a few grains of the best white lump sugar, 
and then expose the bottle to the daylight in the window 
of a warm room. If the water becomes turbid within 
a week or ten days, it indicates organic pollution or 
sewage contamination, but if it remains clear, it is 
almost certainly safe for drinking. 

Another Method of Testing Drinking 
Water. Put a pint of water into a clean white glass 
bottle, and place it on a sheet of white paper, or a white 
cloth. Add to it three drops of Condy's fluid and one 



9 6 RULES OF SIMPLE HYGIENE. 

drachm of dilute sulphuric acid. If the water remains 
still pink-coloured after the lapse of one hour, it is 
unquestionably good water, and fit to drink. If the 
Condy's fluid in the water loses its colour, and the 
water -returns to its natural hue in less time than an 
hour, then add another three drops of the fluid. If 
some of the pink colour be now retained, an hour after 
the second addition of three drops, the water may be 
considered as moderately good. If the fluid loses its 
colour, in less time than an hour, and the water becomes 
white again, then the water is bad, or at least, suspicious, 
and not to be used for drinking purposes. If you prefer 
testing a larger quantity, then, in the same manner, add 
twenty-five drops of Condy's fluid and an ounce of 
dilute sulphuric acid to a gallon of water, and continue 
the test as above, using similar proportions. It is 
as well to mention that there is a book on " Food," 
published by Church, which gives a number of popular 
tests for water. 

2. A Method of Testing Taps and Drains. 

I. Pour a solution of the coarse carbolic acid, of suffi- 
cient strength to give off a decided odour, into the taps 
and sinks at the lower part of the house. Take care, at 
the same time, that the current of air through the house 
does not carry the smell upstairs. After some short 
time, in case the current of sewer gas is regurgitant, 
and the tap or sink, therefore, not in proper order, the 
smell of carbolic acid will be perceived all over the 
house. 

2. Adopt the same plan and the same test with any 
drain for surface water, in front of or behind the house. 

3. Pour a sufficient quantity of Condy's fluid round 
the mouth of the tap-holes, in the kitchen and scullery 
sinks, keeping the plug at the same time still inserted in 
its place. If the fluid changes colour, then you may 
conclude that the sink is not clean. Have it thoroughly 



APPENDIX. 97 



cleansed out until the Condy's fluid no longer changes 
colour ; then withdraw the plug, and if the Condy's fluid 
now changes colour, you may conclude that the sewer 
gas is regurgitant (that is, that it comes up, and rises, 
when it has no business to do so), and that the drain is 
all wrong, and ought to be looked to, and put in proper 
order. 

3. How to remove Stiffness and Aching of 
the Limbs after a very long Ride, Walk, Row, 

or Day On the Ice. Sponge all over with water, as 
hot as you can bear it, just before going to bed ; and if 
you have had any bad bruises, use plenty of hot fomen- 
tations with tincture of arnica, in the proportion of one 
part of arnica to twelve of water. Then put bright clear 
hot cinders into a warming-pan, and upon them, just 
before proceeding to warm the bed, throw a large hand- 
ful of the commonest, coarsest brown sugar you can get. 
Warm the bed thoroughly with the pan, so that it is 
filled with the hot steam and vapour from the sugar ; 
slip in neatly and cleverly, so as to allow as little as 
possible of the steam to escape. Get some one to tuck 
you in tight, all round, go to sleep warm and cosy in 
your sugar-vap'our bath, and the chances are that you 
will awake next morning light and limber, without an 
ache or twinge. 

4. Renting a House. Before becoming the tenant 
of a house, see that there is no dampness, nor green 
mould indicating dampness, on the inner walls or base- 
ments ; no mildew or fusty smell perceptible in the 
rooms or passages. See that all rooms and bedrooms 
are airy, and well lighted by windows opening from the 
top, and that there are no dark passages where air can 
become stagnant and offensive. Lease no house where 
external ventilation is not free, nor where chimneys of 
adjoining houses can blow directly into its rooms. Lock 
carefully to the position of the water-closets and the 

H 



98 RULES OF SIMPLE HYGIENE. 

character of the drainage. Some houses have water- 
closets with no means of external ventilation : don't 
occupy such a residence, however well assured you may 
be that the trapping of the apparatus and of the soil- 
pipe is perfect, for no trapping will remove the risk of 
danger. The water-closet should be either outside the 
main walls, or should be so fixed against an external 
wall, that the soil may be discharged into a drain out- 
side the main wall. The overflow pipe of the basin 
should either terminate in the water of the trap, or be 
so situated as to be trapped every time the apparatus is 
used. The soil-pipe should be carried from below the 
strap of the basin, upwards to above the eaves of the 
house, and there opened for ventilation, at a distance 
from any window. The closet itself should have a 
window above the seat, so that direct external ventila- 
tion may be constant. There should be, if possible, 
double doors between the water-closet and the house 
proper, with a window opening externally between such 
doors. All house drains should be trapped, and every 
trap protected by a ventilator, which should be placed 
so as to avoid the windows of the house. All overflow 
pipes and water-pipes from cisterns, baths, and waste- 
water sinks, should be disconnected from the sewer, or 
the drain leading to the sewer, by a break or water trap 
open to the external air. It will sometimes happen in 
houses of crowded cities, that the bath and waste water 
pipes are made by the architect to connect directly with 
the drain ; if so, such pipes should be carried upwards 
to the eaves of the house, and there ventilated in the 
same manner as the soil-pipe. These precautions cost 
very little, and a house, the drains of which are thus 
ventilated, is efficiently protected even when the sewers 
are out of order. 

5. Situation of House. if you are about to 
build, and can choose a site for your house, avoid a 



APPENDIX. 99 



damp locality, or one so surrounded with trees that the 
sun's rays can find no entrance except at mid-day. 
Avoid a clay foundation, but if you must use it, protect 
your walls and basements by a good layer of concrete. 
A gravelly site is not bad, but if the gravel rests on clay, 
such an impervious subsoil is a barrier to natural drain- 
age ; and as a consequence thereof, the sewage and 
other impurities find their way into the wells in the 
vicinity. Place your house on a gentle slope open to 
all the " airts the wind can blaw," and so situated as to 
command for your day rooms the cheerful influence of 
the morning and evening sun. A belt of trees sheltering 
a house from the north wpid is sometimes, in this 
climate, not undesirable. 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Ague 69 

Anaesthetics 92 

Arm, Broken 30 

Bath, Hot 9 

Baths and Bathing 6 

Bed-sores n 

" . 74 

Bite, Bug or Flea 72 

Bite, Mad-Dog n 

Bite, Snake n 

Bleeding, How to Stop 74 

Blood- Vessel, Broken 13 

Boils 13 

Bones, Broken 30 

Bowels, Inflammation 86 

Brain, Concussion 80 

Bronchitis 76 

Bruises 14 

Burns 14 

Carbuncles 13 

Catarrh 76 

Chilblains 15 

Child Crowing 21 

Chloroform .... 92 

Cholera 16 

Chorea 89 

Clavicle. Broken 74 

Coffee, How to Make 66 

Cold 17 

" 76 

Collar-bone, Broken 74 

Constipation 4 



PAGE 

Corns..... 18 

Cough 18 

; Cough, Whooping 56 

i Cramp 19 

Croup 19 

CutS 22 

: Delirium Tremens 81 

Diarrhoea 24 

" 80 

| Dining 3 

Dining-out 58 

Diphtheria 25 

Disinfectants 6 

Drains and Taps 96 

Drowning 26 

Dysentery. 27 

Dyspepsia 84 

Earache 28 



Eating and Drinking 4 

Elbow, Dislocation 25 

Epileptic Fits 29 

Erysipelas 82 

Eye, removing a " foreign body" 61 

Eyes, Care of 57 

Fainting : 28 

Feet, Blistered 73 

I Feet, Cold 4 

I Finger, Amputation 71 

I Fire, Hints on Making 67 

! Fits 29 

j Frost-Bite 31 

j Gout 31 



PAGE 

Gout 82 

Hair 3 

Hands 8 

Heartburn 5 

Heatstroke 90 

Hernia, Strangulated 44 

House, Location 98 

" Renting 97 

Hygiene, Simple Rules i 

Indigestion 84 

Infectious Diseases, Precautions 32 

Itch 88 

Jaundice 89 

Knees, Housemaid's 84 

Leg, Bad 10 

Leg, Broken 30 

Lumbago 36 

Malaria 69 

Measles 37 

Nose-Bleeding 12 

Piles 37 

Poison 37 

Rheumatic Fever 40 

Rheumatism 38 

Ribs, Broken 31 

Rupture 41 

St. Vitus's Dance 89 

Scabies 88 

Scalds 14 

Sea-sickness 45 

Sewers 6 

Shoulder, Dislocation 25 

Sleeplessness or "Insomnia" ... 5 



PAGE 

Sleeplessness or "Insomnia', 33 

Smells, Foul 6 

Smoking. 58 

Sprain 47 

Stammering 47 

Stiffness of Limbs 97 

Sting, Bee, Wasp, etc 49 

' 89 

Stomach-ache 46 

Sunstroke 52 

" 9 

Suppers 4 

Taps and Drains 96 

Tea, How to make 63 

Teeth 3 

" 59 

Thigh, Broken 30 

Throat, Sore 46 

Tic-Douleureux 54 

Toe-nail, Ingrowing 87 

Toothache 54 

" 60 

Tooth Brush 8 

" 59 

38 

. ... 91 

55 

.... 6 



Urine. Retention 

Varicose Veins , 

Vomiting 

Washing 



Water, Drinking 95 

Water-Closets 6 

Whooping-Cough 56 

Wounds 22 



OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. 



" This contains very clear practical advice, and people might 
do worse than spend a shilling in procuring it." Lancet. 

" ' Omnia Sanitas,' as a claptrap cry for a political party at 
its wits' end for some original device, is one thing. Real and 
efficacious sanitary work is quite'another thing. While hun- 
dreds of excellent people, armed with the best intentions, are 
squandering innumerable tracts (with stimulating titles) upon 
all sorts of barren or thorny soils, we may do a public service 
by calling attention to a simple broadsheet (for it is neither a 
book nor a pamphlet), which cannot possibly offend the most 
sensitive conscience, and which all who run may read with 
perfect safety to their theological dogmas or doctrines, or to 
their ' secular ' convictions. This valuable and instructive 
document has been drawn up by an eminent clergyman of the 
Church of England, for whose scholarship and learning Oxford 
can vouch, and whose name is widely known as that of one of 
the most generous and devoted schoolmasters of this or any age 
or country the Rev. Dr. Dawson Turner, Headmaster of the 
Royal Institution School, Liverpool. This Formulary is entitled 
Rules of Simple Hygiene, and Hints and Remedies for the Treat- 
ment of Common Accidents and Diseases. In fact, it is a Guide 
to Health ; and had it not been ' revised, corrected, and 
enlarged by seven eminent medical men, five of whom are 
connected with different public hospitals and infirmaries in 
London and Liverpool,' we might be tempted to designate it 
as ' Every man, woman, and child his or her own doctor.' 

"It is most creditable to the medical profession that a 
manual, which must seriously diminish the number of patients, 
should have received the earnest and emphatic sanction of some 
of its most illustrious and active members, and notably of Sir 
William Jenner and Sir James Paget. But disinterestedness has 



102 OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. 

always been accounted one of the dominant characteristics of 
that illustrious profession in all its branches. Nor is there 
any incongruity in this emulation of the doctor and the divine. 
The proverb assures us that cleanliness is very near to godliness. 
And it is impossible to peruse these ' Rules ' without being 
persuaded that they are as much concerned with moral as with 
physical soundness and purity, and are preservative of health 
and preventive of disease to the souls as well as to the bodies 
of those who observe them faithfully. The reputation of the 
broadsheet is not limited to Great Britain. In Germany, where 
sanitary education, as all the world knows, is so thoroughly 
appreciated and systematically enforced, these Rules have been 
translated and widely disseminated. The information they 
contain is regularly taught to all the pupils at the Institution 
over which Dr. Dawson Turner presides. We have no hesita- 
tion in saying that if it were taught to eveiy boy and girl in 
Great Britain it would save much suffering and disease, materially 
shorten the figures in the death lists of the Registrar-General, 
and add incalculably to the strength of the Empire by producing 
and preserving a sounder and more vigorous race of human 
beings of English blood. We should be glad to see this broad- 
sheet conspicuously placed on the walls of every national school, 
of whatever denomination, throughout the kingdom, and in 
every factory and workshop in the great centres of population 
and industry, and indeed in every home and household. 

" No doubt hypercriticism might object that some of these 
Rules are not within the reach of the multitude, and that it 
would be difficult, if not impossible, even for those who would 
obey them, to obey them entirely or exactly. But this is 
obviously an objection which would apply to all sorts of rules ; 
and it is one that certainly applies less to these than to any 
others, by reason of their perfect clearness and simplicity. If 
rich and poor cannot eat, drink, and avoid precisely all that 
is here recommended, at least they can here learn the reason 
why such and such conditions of atmosphere, diet, and exercise 
should be sought for, and such and such determining causes of 
ill-health be shunned. It may not be inconsistent with our 
respect for the medical profession to remark the perfect freedom 
from prejudice as to modes of treatment which Dr. Dawson 
Turner so advantageously exhibits. These Rules are, perhaps, 
in no respect more valuable than as a safeguard against pestilent 
quacks ; yet their author has not scrupled in one or two cases 



OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. 103 

to recommend what is called a ' patent' medicine, and even in one 
instance a homoeopathic remedy." Daily News, July 6, 1872. 

"A clever and at the same time useful little pamphlet, 
entitled Rules of Simple Hygiene, by Dawson Turner, D.C. L., 
and published by Macmillan and Co., is now in circula- 
tion. It is one which seems well adapted for perusal by all 
who have any regard for their health. It gives in a clear and 
at the same time concise manner, Hints and Remedies for the 
Treatment of Common Accidents and Diseases. Well may the 
author be congratulated on the success which it has met with. 
The fact that it is now in its seventh edition, and that it has 
been translated into five different languages, will sufficiently 
show how this little work has been appreciated." The Student f 
Jotirnal and Hospital Gazette > March 30, 1878. 

"It is a curious trait in human nature that almost every one 
thinks that he is justified in experimenting on that most delicate 
of all pieces of mechanism, the human frame. The man who 
would not hesitate for a moment to take his watch to the 
watchmaker if anything goes wrong with it, and would not 
dream of meddling with it himself, still feels perfectly com- 
petent to experiment on his own internal organs if they should 
chance to go wrong, and prefers to try the thousand-and-one 
nostrums of himself and his friends rather than seek relief at the 
hands of a medical man. Accordingly, we find many books 
published pandering to this strange taste, and, as a rule, we 
eschew such works as likely to do more harm than good. But 
there are circumstances, of course, in which a medical man 
cannot be obtained ; more especially among the class of men 
for whom the pamphlet, Rules of Simple Hygiene, and Hints 
and Remedies for the Treatment of Common Accidents and 
Diseases, by Dawson W. Turner, D.C.L. (Macmillan), is to a 
certain extent intended, namely, sailors ; as well as many 
others, who cannot, or will not, go to a doctor. When we 
reflect upon the number of ships which leave the British ports 
every year without a surgeon, and the men they cany, we 
cannot but commend the publication of such simple hints and 
remedies for the treatment of common diseases as are contained 
in this pamphlet. The author has done his work well. In the 
simplest and plainest manner he has set forth the treatment of 
the more common forms of disease one is likely to meet with 
both on board ship and on land, and the fact that the work has 



104 OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. 

been 'revised and corrected by nine eminent medical men be- 
longing to. different hospitals in London' is sufficient guarantee 
that the treatment recommended is trustworthy. Dr. Turner 
has added many good and simple rules of hygiene, and if only 
on this account the pamphlet should be read." Whitehall 
Review, November 8, 1879. 

" In proceeding to notice this little work, the second part or 
appendix to which we see to have been compiled since the 
author entered as an hospital student, we see no reason to 
dissent from the brief but very favourable opinion passed upon 
it by the Lancet some years ago on its first publication. It may 
be as well, however, to speak at a somewhat greater length of 
the object for which Dr. Turner's brochures were written, and 
to call attention to what, we think, may be fairly regarded as 
a drawback to the utility, or at least to the applicability, ot 
some of the advice given in the first part of the larger of the 
two pamphlets. For instance, if the author himself, or any one 
who studies his precepts, can keep strictly to the recommenda- 
tion of Rule xxii., viz. 'To sponge the whole body all over at 
night as Avell as in the morning,' and that, too, with cold 
water, we should be inclined to apostrophise him in the words 
of the Athenian envoys, addressed, Thucydides tells us, to the 
Senate of Mityl en e /xafcaptVcwres vpuv TO a7retp6/ca/coi>, ou ^Xov^ev 
TO &<f>pov, which, for the benefit of those of our readers to whom 
Greek is Greek, we may translate ('mutatis mutandis'), that, 
' though we congratulate the author on his exceptional immunity 
from the weaknesses of human nature, we do not envy him the 
risk of catching a bad cold, by his practice of cold-water spong- 
ing just before going to bed.' A similar exception may be taken 
to Rule xv. which enjoins on the reader the ' drinking only one 
kind of wine, in case of dining out,' and ' the taking no wine at 
all after dinner. ' The advice may be, and probably is, good and 
sound ; but it is not at every dinner party, or indeed anywhere, 
except at a small and select reunion of intimate friends in fact, 
at a bachelor's party that one can have a bottle or half a bottle 
of one's own favourite Bordeaux or Burgundy, one's ' par- 
ticular vanity,' set before you at table. Nor is it in human nature 
(at least not in ours) to say ' No ' to the ' Champagne, Sir ? ' 
* Sparkling Moselle or Still Hock?' even though one has had the 
customary glass of sherry after the fish, or when he intends to 
have just one of unexceptionable ' Port, 'after the cloth is removed. 



OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. 105 

Dulce est desipere in loco it is not given to everybody to be a 
monk of the order of La Trappe, any more than it is possible, 
or even advisable, for everybody to 'take the pledge.' To the 
* Hints on Hygiene,' contained in the first part of the second 
pamphlet, the ' Appendix to Rules of Hygiene,' we can, happily, 
give unqualified praise. The ' Hints upon Smoking,' and ' On 
the Care of the Teeth,' are both excellent ; and we should 
imagine in this last the author must have had great assistance 
given him by one of the leading surgeons at the dental hospital ; 
or, anyway, by some one of the surgeon-dentists of one of the 
large hospitals, by whom, indeed, we are inclined to think, that 
the article was written entire. The same, we feel sure, may be 
said of the excellent article ' On jaundice ' in the second part, 
which was never written by a mere medical student, such as we 
see the author at present to be ; and of the treatment of ' Frac- 
tures,' in page 10 of the first part, ' in case no regular surgeon 
can be procured.' Whose help, of the ten eminent medical 
men.' referred to in the title-page, the author obtained in 
drawing up these directions, his friend was one who knew his 
work well. As deserving special praise, we would call atten- 
tion to the treatment recommended for ' Scalds and Burns,' 
and for the * Ci*re of Stammering.' We take leave of these two 
little pamphlets by offering our congratulations to their author 
on the very efficient assistance he has had the good fortune to 
obtain from his medical and surgical friends at different hos- 
pitals, and with a wish for his success and distinction in the 
new profession he appears, for whatever reason it may be, to 
have adopted." The Courier, November 29, 1879. 

"Dr. D. W. Turner, late Headmaster of the Royal Insti- 
tution School, Liverpool, has sent us a copy of his Rides of 
Simple Hygiene, together with a copy of the appendices which 
have been issued since the pamphlet, which is now in its eighth 
edition, was first published. Besides the ' Rules ' on the per- 
sonal care of health, we have a number of ' hints and remedies 
for the treatment of common accidents and diseases.' The 
rules and hints have been revised by seven eminent medical 
men belonging to different hospitals in London, and must un- 
questionably be of great value in places and under conditions in 
which the services of the ' doctor ' cannot be promptly obtained. 
The pamphlet and appendix are published by Macmillan, and 
they may, we believe, be had in the form of a broadsheet for 



lo6 OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. 

hanging up in workshops, model lodging-houses, and elsewhere. 
We give some extracts which will be interesting if not useful 
to our readers, and at the same time serve .to give an idea of 
the contents of the pamphlet.* Public Health, July 27, 1877. 

Dr. Turner feels peculiar pleasure in being expressly allowed 
by their authors to quote the two following opinions of his 
little work : 

" Read and approved." Sir THOMAS WATSON, M.D., Bart. 

"The best thing of the kind ever done for the non-pro- 
fessional world." LUTHER HOLDEN, President of the College 
of Surgeons, and Senior Surgeon of St. Bartholomew's Hospital. 



J 



o : 

oj 




Uniyersity of Toronto 


SEH | <H 

i -P! 

; 3| 

i 01 

! -Pi 




Library 


) 


DO NOT 


^ -P! 

i 




REMOVE 


/ 


Si oi 

Oi c Hi 
Oi 
v~> CO: 

! 0! 

i -HI 




THE 
CARD 




c! d 

0! N 

CO: 1 




FROM 


\ 1 


I 1 




THIS 


\ 


LO 4 w 

C^5 rH : -P ' 

rH <Bi Ct -1 
CD C: -HI 
CD N M < 

t. ! < 

'J 




POCKET 


X 


Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 


< H 




Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



