Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



MARGARET SIM'S COOKERY 



!4 






MARGARET SIM'S 
COOKERY 



WITH AN INTRODUCTION 



BY 



L. B. WALFORD 



A NEW EDITION 



WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS 

EDINBURGH AND LONDON 

MDCCCLXXXIII 



^ 






V«* 9 t ... . J 



CONTENTS. 



^ 






PAGB 


INTRODUCTION BY MRS WALFORD, 






• • 

Vll 


SOUPS. 






I 


FISH, 






21 


SAUCES, 






39 


ENTRIES, p 






. 56 


POULTRY 






94 


BEEF, 






103 


VEAL, 






109 


MUTTON, 






112 


LAMB, 






116 


PORK, 






118 


• 

VENISON, 






122 


PIES 






126 


VEGETABLES, 






135 


GAME, 






142 


SALADS, « . . 






149 


SANDWICHES, 






158 








161 


SAVOURIES, 






164 








176 


JELLIES, 






209 



vi CONTENTS. 

CREAMS, 2l6 

ICES, . 221 

CAKES AND BISCUITS, 228 

JAMS AND JELLIES, 244 

MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES, 25 1 

INDEX, 259 



INTRODUCTION, 



THE FATHER OF THE FAMILY. 

*' Indigestion is the conscience of the stomach."— (?wrff Meredith. 

It is a fact which no one will be inclined to dispute, 
that the whole household suffers, and is made to 
suffer, when the father of the family is out of sorts, 
out of spirits, or out of temper. From him gener- 
ates the social atmosphere of the circle ; around hini 
— as their centre, their sun, their light, their heat — 
his satellites revolve. 

Is he bland, genial, jocose? — they bask in sun- 
shine. Is he surly and mute ? — they hang their 
heads and . cower before the anticipated storm. 
Above all things, it is necessary to the happiness of 
their daily life that his equanimity should be undis- 
turbed — that his spirit should be at ease ; not vexed 
by any adverse winds — not provoked to wrath by 
any unreasonable irritations. 

Great is his position ; absolute his authority. 



viii INTRODUCTION. 

Heavens ! what a sceptre he wields ! Hasten to 
bow the knee before him, underlings. Propitiate 
the monarch with soothing flatteries, well-timed 
ministrations. Thrust forth from his sight aught 
that would ruffle or annoy. 

Father of the family ! It is a noble appellation. 
And within each mortal frame there dwells — exalt- 
ed on this pedestal, exercising this prerogative — an 
invisible corporeal engine for good or ill, — a power 
accessible to every outward influence, — yet, in him- 
self, influencing more directly and inflexibly all the 
other members of the body. 

Has he been fatigued or overtaxed? — they pay 
the penalty. Has he been neglected and despised ? 
— they smart. Has he been insulted with gross, un- 
suitable, ill-advised offerings ? — they reap in tears. 

Friends and readers, whatever else you have, and 
whatever you have not, each, even to the poorest 
among you, possesses (oft doth he wish he did 
not!) a stomach. 

 

It is this stomach who, " monarch of all he sur- 
veys," determines, more than any outward circum- 
stance — more than literature, or science, or the fine 
arts, or riches, or fame, or beauty, or kinsfolk, or 
country, or climate — the content or uneasiness of 
your days as they pass. 

You want but " daily bread " ; and if you offer 
your inward potentate that bread, soaked in ill-nur- 
tured compounds, sodden in grease, you had need 



INTRODUCTION. ix 

beware ! You desire to save your time — a precious 
gift, it is true, when turned to good and useful pur- 
poses ; but if you scrimp it from your hasty meals, 
gulping down the food before you, hot, reeking, and 
but half masticated, you had best beware ! You are 
anxious to keep a clear head during the day, and to 
enjoy well-earned repose subsequently ; but if you 
defer your hour of dining till the weary brain is 
worn out, till the limbs fail, and you are so faint 
with fasting that you take no pleasure in the com- 
panionship of those dearest to you, no interest in 
their pursuits, are impatient even of their voices, 
you may well beware, if you never stood upon your 
guard until that moment. 

The heavy, long-sustained banquet may indeed 
stave off your ill-humour for the nonce, and render 
you less of a bear in your demeanour to those pres- 
ent, less snarling and sarcastic in your remarks on 
those absent, than you have been throughout the 
previous hours ; but the Nemesis is at your heels, 
dogging every onward step. 

Trifle with your business, your property, your 
time, and your friends — trifle, I say, with all of these 
if you are fool enough ; but, fool or not, lend an ear 
to him who would warn you from trifling with your 
stomach. 

It is too weighty a matter this. Your words, 
your actions, your very thoughts and motives, come 
within his jurisdiction. Temper owns his sway ; 



X INTRODUCtlON. 

sleep is his subject. He prompts the bitter jest, 
the fretful complaint. 

The letter, which was so much more indignant 
and reproachful than it need have been, — the sar- 
casm, which its recipient will never forget, since it 
pierced between the very joints of the armour, — was 
due to his intervention. 

Presently you will yourself acknowledge that you 
wrote in haste, unadvisedly ; that you said more 
than you meant ; that you did not know what pos- 
sessed you at the moment to be so wrathful. And 
by-and-by, on this reflection, supervenes the mem- 
ory of a headache, and the thought of that aching 
head suggests the very root of the matter, though it 
be only casually, and in parenthesis, that you observe 
that you " fancy something had disagreed " with you. 

Even so, friendships are blasted, opportunities are 
slighted, appointments are broken, and misunder- 
standings are rife, — yea, lives themselves, here and 
there, are marred throughout, from the seed sown 
by some tiny germ of indigestion — "something 
having disagreed" with the eater. 

Give heed, then, to these three precepts, sufferers : 
Eat regularly, eat moderately, eat properly. 

Each of these rules is essential to keep the father 
of the family in that state of health and compla- 
cency which shall diffuse joy and gladness through- 
out his lawful territory. 

Let four hours, as a customary thing, pass be- 



INTRODUCTION. xi 

tween each meal, so as to permit the autocrat within 
leisure for repose, for recruiting his energies, and 
gathering in fresh vigour. His pleasant functions 
recommenced, do not thrust these upon him all at 
once in a motley crowd, an inharmonious rabble. 
Judge, discriminate, assort, with nice and deliberate 
observation, lest, hurt and overcharged, outraged 
and disgusted, he take his revenge straightway. 
And lastly, with respectful and measured tread — 
slowly, and as it were reluctantly, let all who would 
approach his presence-chamber enter therein. 

He loves not to have his privacy intruded upon 
with indecent precipitation. Haste beseemeth not 
that sacred region ; tranquillity should reign there. 

In other words, confine the indulgence of your 
appetites to three meals a-day, forswear gluttony, 
and use your teeth for the purpose for which they 
were created. 

But, say some, all these precautions we have kept 
from childhood, and of what avail are they when 
the food which is spread on our tables is unfit to be 
swallowed at all? The materials are simple and 
nutritious ; but in the preparation not only are 
these attributes lost, but their other extremes are 
attained, — there is poison in the dish — death in the 
pot. An ignorant and unwitting hand is shorten- 
ing our days. 

Now, we reply, is the time for the cookery-book. 
By diligent application and repeated experiments 



xii INTRODUCTION. 

on the part of the servant, who would fain do better 
herself but knows not how, and by patience and 
forbearance on that of her master and mistress, a 
blundering kitchen-maid may be, and has not unfre- 
quently been, turned* into an excellent, skilful, and 
thorough-going chef de cuisine. In the volume now 
before us, Mrs Sim, who is housekeeper at Rossdhu 
(the seat of Sir James Colquhoun of Colquhoun and 
Luss, and now tenanted by his uncle, Mr William 
Colquhoun), gives, as the result of her own experi- 
ence, a series of recipes which have the value of 
having been well tested and approved of by many 
a connoisseur. She aims at the discouragement of 
profuse expenditure and multifarious ingredients in 
the art, and at the establishment of sound, whole- 
some, palatable dishes, which can be made daily in 
any house of ordinary importance. Smart-looking, 
highly-spiced, vamped-up mixtures are easily pro- 
ducible but sadly unsatisfactory. The compound, 
if it be a compound, should at no hazard be de- 
pendent on savoury seasoning or show of finery for 
its recommendation. These, if the groundwork be 
of solid excellence, may, to some palates, add an 
attraction, but if the basis be poor, they can never 
supply one. 

It is the watchful eye, the precise fingers, the con- 
centrated attention, which make the cook. A recipe 
hastily skimmed through and only half followed is 
best let alone. Many a youthful mistress who can- 



.'i 



INTRODUCTION. 



Xlll 



not understand why the entrh which she had so 
carefully selected for her third course, and which 
sounded so reliable when read aloud beforehand, 
should appear at table an uneatable mess, would 
be at no loss had she witnessed its manufacture. 
Her cook glanced at the page ; it was too much 
trouble to send to the gardener for one seasoning, 
so she tried another. The time given for the pan 
to be on the fire was longer than she could afford, 
so she thought it no matter to dock off half an hour. 
They were short of eggs, so she considered one less 
than was named in the recipe would be sufficient. 
And so on, with the result as stated above. 

Mrs Sim will have none of this. If she is not 
carefully studied, and exactly followed, the responsi- 
bility is off her shoulders. The spirit as well as the 
letter of the law must be adhered to in the admir- 
able directions here issued. If she is not taken at 
her word, her decrees received without reservations, 
her rules carried out without alteration, she would 
prefer to be without disciples. 

L. B. WALFORD. 



MARGARET SIM'S COOKERY. 



SOUPS. 



Clear Turtle Soup. 

Soak one pound of dried turtle meat in cold water 
for twenty-four hours ; cut up fourteen pounds of 
beef-hough and one fowl ; put all the meat in a 
convenient-sized stock-pot, and fill it up with cold 
water, and place it on a hot-plate or over a slow 
fire. Add two carrots, six onions, one stalk of 
celery, six cloves, two blades of mace, and a few 
peppercorns ; then add the turtle meat. Boil the 
stock very gently for eight hours ; remove the 
pieces of turtle from the pot, wash them in luke- 
warm water, and place them between two flat 
dishes until they are wanted ; strain the stock 
through a hair-sieve, and let it stand in the larder 
until the next day, when it must be clarified. Re- 

A 



2 SOUPS. 

move every particle of fat from the stock ; mince 
two pounds of lean beef, and mix it with the stock, 
and four eggs beat up with their shells, a little 
parsley, green onions, a small sprig of basil, sweet 
marjoram, and lemon-thyme, three blades of tarragon, 
and a handful of button - mushrooms. When the 
stock boils, draw the pot to the side of the stove, and 
add a little cold water ; let it remain there for half 
an hour to clear and infuse the herbs ; then strain 
through a soup-cloth ; add the pieces of turtle, cut 
in nice square pieces without waste; fill a tureen 
with the soup, season slightly with salt, cayenne- 
pepper, a little lemon-juice, and a glass of Madeira 
wine made hot. 

The remainder of the soup should be put in a 
stone jar, and kept in a cool place. 

Tomato Soup, 

Boil a good-sized carrot and grate it ; add it to 
three quarts of beef stock that has been boiled with 
vegetables and a small piece of bacon. Flavour 
according to taste with fresh tomatoes previously 
stewed in a little butter ; season with a little catsup, 
cayenne, white pepper, and salt. Boil the soup and 
skim it ; when ready to dish add the squeeze of a 
lemon. 

When fresh tomatoes are not to be had, substitute 
preserved ones. 

Heathcate Soup. 

Prepare a sheep's head and split it in two ; put it 
into a pot with about a gallon of water ; add the 



SOUPS. 3 

pluck cut into pieces ; boil it gently till reduced one 
half, then take out the meat, reserving the head and 
tongue only. When the stock is cold take off the 
fat, and put the stock into a pan with a cupful of 
barley, six onions, a carrot and turnip, stock of 
celery, and a little parsley. Boil till the vegetables 
are tender, then strain through a hair-sieve ; thicken 
with a little flour and butter (boiled together) ; cut 
the head and tongue in pieces and add them to the 
soup ; boil and skim it ; season with a little pepper 
and salt and a spoonful of Madeira wine. 

Sportsman's Broth. 

Prepare a grouse, a blackcock, a hare, and a 
couple of rabbits; cut them into small joints, re- 
serving some of the best pieces : put the meat into 
a pot and cover it with water; add a carrot and 
turnip, with a stock of celery, peppercorns, and 
salt Boil slowly for about four hours ; strain and 
skim the stock ; add the pieces kept in reserve 
(previously sprinkled with pepper and salt, dusted 
with flour, and browned in a pan with a little butter), 
about two dozen small onions, and half a white 
cabbage shred fine. Boil slowly till tender; half 
an hour before serving add six potatoes cut in slices. 

The whole contents of the pot should be served 
without straining. 

Venison Soup, 

Split a deer's head and wash it in cold water, 
with the neck, shank -bones, and any pieces of 
venison that can be spared. Put the meat into a 



4 SOUPS. 

stock-pot and cover with cold water, a carrot and 
turnip, six onions (one stuck with six cloves), two 
blades of mace, a sprig of thyme, black pepper- 
corns, and a little salt; fill the pot up with cold 
water. When it boils skim it, and let it boil slowly 
for eight or ten hours ; then strain the stock through 
a hair-sieve, and set it in the larder to cool. When 
quite cold and firm, remove the fat from the top of 
the soup, and dab it over with a cloth wrung out of 
hot water. Mince up about a pound and a half of 
lean raw venison, and three eggs beat up with their 
shells. Let all be mixed together, and put into a 
pan and placed on the stove, and stirred until it 
boils ; then add a little cold water, and draw it to 
the side of the stove to boil slowly for about two 
hours; strain it through a tammy-sieve or cloth 
into a clean pan. Season the soup with a table- 
spoonful of catsup, a little cayenne-pepper and salt. 
Make a custard of three yolks of eggs and a break- 
fast-cupful of boiling milk, seasoned with a little 
pepper and salt Butter a pudding-mould and pour 
the custard into it ; place it in k pan with boiling 
water, but not on any account to boil after it is put 
in. When the custard is firm, turn it out on a dish 
and cut it in slices about an inch thick. With 
fancy tin cutter cut up all the custard into shapes, 
and add them to the soup, and serve it hot 

Heron Soup, 

Skin and draw two herons ; remove the fillets from 
their breasts, and place them in a saucepan with 
a piece of butter; stew until tender. Cut up the 



soups: s 

remainder of the herons in small pieces, place them 
in a soup-pan with a few green onions, small bunch 
of parsley, sprig of thyme, same of sweet marjoram 
and basil ; add one blade of mace and six cloves. 
Sprinkle over with white pepper and salt. Place 
the soup-pan on the stove, and brown. the meat 
slightly ; then cover the meat well with boiling 
water. Put the cover on the pan, and .allow it to 
boil for about three hours ; then strain the stock 
through a sieve. Pound the fillets in a mortar ; rub 
through a hair-sieve. Add the pur^e to the stock. 
Pour the soup into a pan ; allow it to boil for a few 
minutes, and skim it *; add pepper and salt to taste. 
Serve hot. 

Clear Brown Soup. 

Take ^ hough of beef about fourteen or sixteen 
pounds weight ; cut it up in pieces along with the 
bones, and put it into a stock-pot ; fill the pot with 
cold water ; then add two carrots, one turnip, one 
stalk of celery, half an ounce whole black pepper, 
six red onions, and a little salt Put the cover on 
the pot and set it on the hot-plate or clear fire ; 
when it boils add a little cold water : allow it to 
boil very slowly for eight or nine hours, taking care 
not to let it off the boil. If the process of boiling 
reduce it very much, a little boiHng water must 
be added. After it has boiled the time specified, 
strain the stock through a tammy-sieve into large 
earthen jars or basins ; put them away in a cool 
larder. When the soup is wanted, skim off all the 
fat and boil the soup ; add a little pepper and salt 
to taste. 



6 SOUPS. 

{Second Stock!) 

Return into the stock-pot all the meat and bones 
that had been used for the first stock ; cover the 
meat well with hot water ; add a little salt, and boil 
the stock for six hours ; strain it through a hair-sieve, 
and keep it in a cool place. When wanted, skim off 
all the fat. This stock is useful for making common 
soups, gravies, stews, and hashes. When it is wanted 
clear, mince some raw lean beef, and add two or 
three eggs beat up with the shells, and mix all 
together with the cold stock ; add a little cold water : 
pour it into a pan placed upon the hot-plate, and 
stir until it boils ; pour in a little cold water, and 
draw the pot to the side of the stove. Allow the 
soup to boil slowly for about two hours, and strain 
it through a soup-cloth. 

Almond Soup. 

Cut out the breast of a fowl ; mince and pound it 
in the mortar ; add the white of an egg, then pound 
for five minutes ; add another white, go on pounding 
till it becomes smooth and tough. Form balls the 
size and form of almonds. Have a pan with boiling 
water on the hot-plate, add a little salt to the water ; 
have the almonds seasoned with salt and white 
pepper to taste. Poach them for ten minutes ; boil 
some of first stock. Add the almonds, and serve. 

Spring Soup. 

Have a good stock prepared, as for brown soup. 
Take a bunch of asparagus, cut the green ends in 



SOUPS. 7 

small bits ; a few green peas, with small sprigs of 
cauliflower, some small onions, one turnip, and one 
carrot; take a small cutter and scoop out some 
pieces from the turnip and pink of the carrot. Boil 
these vegetables separately, and add to the soup. 

Macaroni Soup, 

Take a handful of macaroni, and soak in cold 
water for an hour ; then boil it till tender, strain it, 
and let it cool ; then cut in pieces a quarter of an 
inch thick, to appear like plain rings ; add these to 
the first stock, and serve. Vermicelli, boiled for five 
minutes, is also used for brown soup. 

Ox-Tail Sotip, 

Take two pounds of soup meat and two ox-tails ; 
put on in a pan with cold water; season as for 
brown soup ; skim when it comes to the boil, and 
boil till the tails are thoroughly cooked ; cut out 
some of the middle joints ; strain the soup ; set away 
to cool ; when cold take off the fat, boil the soup, 
add the joints. Add vegetables cut in strips if 
liked. 

Clear Mock Turtle Soup. 

Take a calfs head, fresh ; lay it in cold water, expel 
the blood ; split it in two, and put it into a pot large 
enough to hold it easily, and cover with cold water ; 
set it on the stove : add one pound raw ham, four 
onions (one of them stuck with six cloves), a head of 
celery, small sprig of thyme, basil, sweet marjoram, 



8 SOUPS. 

a little parsley, two blades of mace, and half an 
ounce of white pepper. When the pot boils skim it ; 
boil slowly for about two hours ; divest it from the 
bones, and put in the larder to cool : return the bones 
to the stock-pot to boil for another hour, then strain 
it through a hair-sieve. When quite cold and firm, 
take the fat off; wipe the surface with a cloth wrung 
out of hot water. Put the stock in a pan, and mix 
in by degrees one pound of lean beef minced fine, 
three raw eggs with their shells, with a little cold 
water. Set the pan on the stove and stir till it boils, 
then draw to the side and add a little more water ; 
allow it to boil very gently for about two hours. 
Strain through a soup-cloth, pour it in a pan, add 
the meat cut an inch square, a little lemon-juice, 
pinch of cayenne-pepper. Boil and skim the soup ; 
heat a glassful of Madeira wine, and pour it in the 
soup. 

Thick Mock Turtle Soup. 

Make the stock as directed for clear mock turtle 
soup, with the addition of egg-balls ; for these, boil 
four eggs for ten minutes, pound the yolks in a 
mortar, drop in the white of one egg, a pinch of 
pepper and salt, the grating of a nutmeg, then 
pound for other five minutes ; form into small round 
balls the size of a nutmeg, and poach them in boiling 
stock for three minutes, and add them to the soup ; 
also a few pieces of the meat of the head, cut about 
two inches square, must be added to the soup. 
Season with the juice of half a lemon, a pinch of 
cayenne - pepper, and a glassful of Madeira wine 
made hot 



SOUPS. 9 

Grouse Soup, Clear. 

Take two brace of old grouse, cut the fillets from 
the breast, put away on a plate ; take the carcasses 
and break them a little with a chopper ; put them in 
a pan and cover with cold water ; add a little parsley, 
one sprig of thyme, four shallots, some black pepper- 
corns, and a little salt Set the pan on the stove to 
boil ; skim it. Keep the pan boiling until the meat 
is thoroughly cooked, then strain the stock through a 
tammy-sieve; return the stock into a clean pan. The 
fillets must now be cut into thick shreds, and put 
into the soup, and boiled for half an hour ; when the 
shreds of grouse are boiled enough, and the soup to 
be used, add a glassful of port wine and a pinch of 
red pepper. The soup is ready for use. 

Note. — Pheasants, partridges, larks, snipes, wood- 
cock, rabbits, prepared in the manner indicated for 
making grouse soup, will prove equally delicious. 

Grouse Soup, Thick. 

The remains of cooked grouse may do for this 
soup. Take the remains of cold game and put them 
into a pan ; cover with cold water or stock ; add 
vegetables and herbs same as for clear grouse soup, 
with the addition of a small piece of lean ham. 
For thickening, put three ounces of butter and the 
same quantity of flour into a pan and stir on the 
fire till it gets into a thick paste ; then pour this 
into the stock with the other seasoning. Boil all 
together for four hours, and strain through a sieve ; 
add fillets of grouse. Season with salt, red pepper, 
and a little port, wine, and serve. 



10 SOUPS. 

Potato Soup. 

Peel and slice a dozen good potatoes and six 
onions ; cover with stock— second stock will do. Boil . 
them until they are quite soft, then add a large tea- 
spoonful of curry-powder, same of curry-paste ; then 
rub through a hair-sieve ; return it to the pan ; boil 
and skim. Season with salt, add half a teacupful of 
cream, and dish. 

Note. — For this a stock might be made of roast- 
beef bones, marrow-bones, or any scraps of fresh 
meat 

Kidney Soup. 

Take two ox kidneys and cut them in pieces. 
Put a small piece of butter into a stew-pan ; put the 
kidneys into the pan ; add six onions, one carrot, 
one small turnip, one stalk of celery, a little pepper 
and salt. Put the pan on the stove, and stew slowly 
for half an hour ; fill up the pan with boiling water 
or stock, and let it boil for four hburs ; then take 
out a few pieces of the kidneys and cut them small. 
Strain the soup through a hair-sieve ; return to the 
pan ; add the pieces of kidney ; boil and skim the 
soup. 

Celery and Onion Soup, 

Clean four heads of celery ; cut them in pieces ; 
boil in water for ten minutes ; drain them ; place 
them in a soup-pan with half a pound of onions, a 
little tarragon and chervil, a piece of sugar, and a 
pinch of pepper; fill up with game stock. Boil 
gently until the celery is thoroughly done, and serve. 



SOUPS. II 

Giblet Soup^ Clear, 

Take two sets of geese giblets, thoroughly 
cleansed ; put them in a stew-pan with a little basil, 
marjoram, lemon-thyme, parsley, carrot, and a stalk 
of celery, three onions (one of them stuck with six 
cloves), a blade of mace, and six shallots. Add four 
pounds of knuckle of veal ; fill up the pan with 
cold water, and set it on the stove to boil, and 
skim it. Boil the stock until the giblets are 
tender ; then take out the necks and gizzards ; 
wash them in cold water; put them away until 
wanted. Boil the stock an hour longer; strain it 
through a tammy-sieve; return it into a pan and 
boil it. Add the pieces of giblets kept in reserve, 
and a table-spoonful of catsup, a pinch of cayenne- 
pepper, and a glass of Madeira wine made hot ; and 
serve. 

Giblet Soupy T/pick. 

Clean three or four sets of goose or duck giblets ; 
put them in a pan with a scrap of mutton and some 
veal bones, with three onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
a teaspoonful of white pepper, a little salt, a few 
white mushrooms, and an ounce of butter mixed 
with a dessert-spoonful of flour. Boil this on the 
hot-plate for four hours; take out the neck and 
some of the gizzards before they are overdone : cut 
the necks about two inches in length, and the giz- 
zards in small slices; add these to the soup after 
the stock has been strained and seasoned with salt 
Boil it up ] put half a teacupful of sweet cream in 
the tureen ; pour in the soup, and keep stirring it for 
a few minutes, and serve. 



12 SOUPS. 

Hare Soup^ Thick, 

Take one or two hares and skin them. Take out 
the inside without breaking it ; hold it over a basin 
and tear out the lungs ; save the blood in the basin ; 
cut up the hares in pieces and put them in a large 
pan with a piece of butter, and brown the meat very 
slightly, with six onions sliced, carrot, turnip, stalk 
of celery, sprig of thyme, and half an ounce of whole 
black pepper. Let the whole simmer for half an 
hour, taking care it does not burn, then add hot 
water enough to cover the meat ; boil slowly until 
the meat is boiled to pieces ; then strain the stock 
and add the blood mixed with two spoonfuls of 
flour, and the fillets, cut in pieces about an inch 
and a half in length and browned in butter. Stir 
the soup on the fire until it boils ; skim it ; season 
with a little catsup, cayenne-pepper, and salt to 
taste. 

Hare Soup, Clear. 

This soup is made without the blood of the hare. 
Wash the hare in cold water and cut it in pieces ; 
put it in a pan with vegetables and sweet herbs, 
with the same seasoning as for thick hare soup. 
Cover it well with cold water ; add salt and white 
peppercorns ; put it on the hot - plate ; when it 
boils, skim it ; let it boil slowly for six or seven 
hours; cut the fillets and stew them in a little of 
the stock : boil a stalk of celery ; take the tender 
parts and cut them in pieces one inch in length. 
Strain the stock through a tammy-sieve and put in 
a clean pan ; add the pieces of hare and the bits of 



SOUPS. 13 

boiled celery ; put it back on the hot-plate and let it 
boil for a short time. Skim, and add one table-spoon- 
ful of catsup, a little salt, and a pinch of cayenne- 
pepper ; a glass of port wine may be added if liked. 

Mulligatawny Soup, 

Peel and slice one dozen onions and put them 
into a stew-pan with four ounces of butter, and fry 
them on a slow fire ; add six unpeeled apples cut in 
slices. As soon as these have been cooked, mix in 
six ounces of flour, two table -spoonfuls of curry- 
paste, and one of curry-powder ; moisten with three 
quarts of good stock ; stir over the fire until the 
soup boils, and then set it to continue gently sim- 
mering by the side of the fire to allow the grease 
to rise to the surface ; skim it, then rub the soup 
through a sieve. Put it back into the soup-pot ; add 
pieces of chicken, game, or veal, previously cooked 
and cut into square pieces ; boil for a few minutes, 
and serve with plain boiled rice in a separate dish. 

Mulligatawny Soup, Clear. 

Second stock will do to make this soup : mince a 
piece of lean beef, and add it to the cold stock after 
it has been freed from grease. For a tureenful of 
soup mix a dessert - spoonful of curry -paste, the 
whites and shells of two eggs beat up and mixed 
with the soup. Put on the stove ; boil for an hour ; 
.strain through a tammy ; and serve with rice. 

Chestnut Soup, 

Scald, peel, and scrape fifty chestnuts ; put them 
into a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, an onion, 



J4 SOUPS. 

two lumps of sugar, and a little pepper and salt, 
and simmer the whole over the fire for three- 
quarters of an hour. Then bruise the chestnuts in 
a mortar; remove the pulp into a stew-pan; add 
a quart of good brown stock, and rub the pur^e 
through a sieve ; pour it into a stew-pan ; make it 
hot, and serve with fried bread cut into dice. 

This soup may be made with white stock instead 
of brown, with the addition of a little cream before 
it is dished. 

Vegetable Marrow Soup, 

Peel and core six vegetables — marrows ; put them 
in a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, pepper and 
salt, and a little nutmeg; moisten with a pint of 
white stock ; boil gently for half an hour ; rub the 
purie through a hair-sieve ; pour it into a soup-pot. 
Add a pint of good stock and a little sweet cream ; 
stir it over the fire until it boils ; serve with bread 
cut into dice, and fried. 

How to make White Stock, 

Break up a knuckle of veal, with any trimmings 
of meat, one old fowl and one rabbit (the fillets 
might be cut out and kept for an entrie)] put all 
the meat into a pot, and fill with water ; add one 
pound of lean ham or bacon, with four carrots, two 
turnips, two stalks of celery, a handful of parsley, 
bay-leaf, sprig of thyme, a handful of mushrooms, a 
blade of mace, six cloves, white peppercorns, and 
two ounces of salt. Allow the stock to boil very 
gently by the side of a slow fire for about five hours, 



SOUPS. 15 

skimming it occasionally, and then strain it off into 
pans for use as occasion requires. 

Duchess Soup, 

Mix two ounces of arrowroot in a little cold water, 
and pour this into a stew-pan containing a quart of 
good white stock ; stir this over the fire until it boils 
about ten minutes, and then pour it into a soup- 
tureen. Add some neatly cut inch -long pieces of 
roasted or boiled poultry or game; skim the soup 
before it is dished. 

Rich White Soup, 

Take six pounds of veal and an old fowl, and cut 
in pieces, and put them in a pan filled with cold 
water. Then add one parsnip, one carrot, a small 
piece of celery, two onions, a sprig of sweet mar- 
joram, a blade of mace, some whole white pepper ; 
boil slowly for five hours, and strain through a hair- 
sieve ; then put away to cool in order to get all the 
fat off. When it is to be used, boil the stock and 
skim ; add pepper to taste. Beat the yolks of two 
eggs ; add to them a teacupful of sweet cream ; 
then pour both into the tureen. Take a ladleful of 
boiling soup ; pour it in amongst the eggs and cream, 
stirring all the time; then pour in the whole, and 
stir a little longer, so as to mix them thoroughly 
and make the soup perfectly smooth. 

Palestine Soup, 

Peel and slice a peck of Jerusalem artichokes, four 
onions, one head of celery ; put these in a stew-pan. 



i6 SOUPS, 

with two ounces of butter and three pints of white 
veal stock ; season with nutmeg, pepper, and salt. 
Boil gently for an hour; rub through a sieve; re- 
move the pur^e into a stew-pan ; stir it over the fire 
till hot Add a pint of cream ; serve with bread cut 
into dice, and fried. 

Victoria Soup, 

Wash half a pound of pearl-barley, and put this 
into a stew-pan with three pints of good white veal 
stock, and simmer it very gently over a slow fire for 
an hour and a half, by which time the barley will be 
nearly dissolved ; put a third of it into a small soup- 
pot ; rub the remainder through a sieve ; then add 
it to the whole barley. Add half a pint of cream ; 
season with a little salt; stir it over the fire until 
hot, and serve. 

Cocky-Leeky, 

Boil a fowl in three pints of light-coloured stock. 
When done, cut the fowl up into pieces, and let these 
be kept in reserve between two plates to prevent 
them from becoming dried up. Next add to the 
broth which the fowl has been boiled in a dozen 
leeks cut into inch-lengths ; then add the pieces of 
fowl, a few stewed prunes, pepper and salt. 

Hodge-Podge. 

Take the neck and back ribs of mutton ; put them 
in a pan with a teacupful of pearl-barley ; fill up the 
pan with cold water, put it on the stove, and boil it 
until the meat is done ; take it out and put away for 



SOUPS. 



17 



use. Strain the stock through a sieve ; skim off the 
fat, and return the stock into the pan ; put it back 
on the stove. Wash a few carrots and turnips ; peel 
and cut them in dice ; add to the soup a few young 
onions, cauliflower, two heads of lettuce, peas, beans, 
and a little parsley. Boil all the vegetables till quite 
tender ; then take some lamb or mutton chops, fry 
them a light-brown colour, and put them into the 
soup-pot ; skim off all the fat ; add a little salt to 
taste, and dish. 

Green-Pea Soup. 

Prepare a quart of green peas, a handful of parsley, 
the same of green onions, and a stalk of mint ; boil 
these in three quarts of stock, and as soon as the 
peas are done, rub the whole through a hair-sieve 
and pour the soup into a pan ; put it on the fire to 
boil, and skim it Take a handful of very young 
peas ; boil them in water ; when done, strain and 
add them to the soup. 



Common Pea-Soup. 

Soak a quart of split-peas overnight, and next day 
wash them in cold water ; put them in a pan with 
carrot, celery, onions, ham or bacon bones, roast- 
beef or mutton bones ; then add three quarts of 
water ; set the pan on the fire to boil ; then skim it, 
and let it boil slowly by the side of the fire for three 
hours ; rub through a hair-sieve ; return the soup to 
the pan, and skim it well ; add pepper and salt to 
taste. Send to table with toasted bread cut in small 
squares, and bruised dry mint, separately. 

B 



i8 SOUPS. 

Oyster Soup. 

Scald, drain, and beard four dozen oysters, reserv- 
ing their liquor in a pan ; put four ounces of butter 
into a stew-pan to dissolve over the fire ; mix in four 
ounces of flour ; moisten with a pint and a half of 
good white stock ; season with nutmeg, a pinch of 
cayenne, and a teaspoonful of anchovy ; stir over 
the fire during a quarter of an hour's gentle boiling, 
and add the liquor. Cut the oysters each into halves ; 
pour the hot soup over them in the tureen ; add a 
little sweet cream, and serve. 

Lamb's Stove Soup. 

Boil a lamVs head till tender, and cut the meat in 
pieces ; return the bones to the pot, and add three 
onions ; reduce the liquor to two quarts ; then strain 
it, mix an ounce of butter with an ounce of flour, 
and boil it for about a minute. Parboil as much 
spinach as make a large dish ; drain it, and add to 
the stock with the pieces of meat : season with pep- 
per and salt. When about to dish, add about half a 
pint of cream. 

Lobster Soup, 

First cut up very small the following ingredients : 
one carrot, onion, celery, three shallots, bay-leaf, and 
thyme, and some parsley ; fry these in a stew-pan 
with a piece of butter until they are slightly browned, 
then add six ounces of flour ; mix well ; moisten with 
three pints of good stock ; stir over the fire, and when 
it boils, set it by the side to simmer gently for half 
an hour. While this part of the preparation is going 



SOUPS. 



19 



on, break up a fresh-boiled lobster; remove the meat 
from the tail and claws, and cut this into neat square 
pieces to be kept in reserve. The remainder of the 
lobster, with a little spawn, must be well bruised in 
a mortar, and stirred into the soup as it boils ; and 
five minutes after, let the whole be rubbed thVough 
a sieve, poured into a soup -pot made hot, and 
skimmed ; seasoned with a glass of sherry made 
hot, a little Harvey, lemon -juice, anchovy, and 
cayenne, and poured into the soup-tureen already 
containing the cut-up lobster. 

Crab Soup, 

Boil half a pound of rice in a quart of white stock, 
with a little nutmeg, pepper, salt, and an ounce of 
butter. While the rice is being very slowly simmered, 
break up a fresh-boiled crab, separating carefully all 
the meat from the claws, which must be kept in 
reserve ; pound all the yellow pith from the body- 
shell, with the boiled rice, and mix the whole with a 
quart of hot stock ; rub it through a tammy ; pour 
it into a soup-pot ; add the white meat from the 
claws ; season with a small pinch of cayenne, a little 
anchovy, and a pint of cream ; stir over the fire until 
quite hot, without allowing it to boil, and serve. 



Eel Soup, 

Boil a pound of unskinned eels in a quart of water, 
with a crust of bread, a blade of mace, a little whole 
pepper, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs, in a 
stew-pan, closely covered, till they are quite broken ; 



20 SOUPS. 

then strain off the soup, and pour it boiling on some 
toasted bread cut into dice. 

Fish Soup. 

Skin and bone four fresh haddocks ; put the heads, 
skins, and bones into four quarts of good beef stock, 
with three onions cut small, and let them boil for an 
hour. Then strain the stock into a pan ; add the 
fillets of fish, cut into pieces about two inches in 
length, a little minced parsley, pepper and salt, 
and a table-spoonful of catsup ; boil for about ten 
minutes. Dish the soup, and add a teacupful of 
cream. 



FISH. 



Boiled Salmon. 

If you wish to boil a whole salmon, break the 
gills and let it bleed ; wash it in cold water ; put on 
a fish-kettle with a drainer in it ; fill the pan with 
water, adding a handful of salt. When the water 
boils, lay the fish on the drainer, and put it into a 
pan ; boil it for half an hour ; skim the water when 
it boils. Do not leave the salmon in the water after 
it is boiled ; take it out on the drainer ; lay it across 
the pan to drip ; dish it on a folded napkin, and 
serve with any of the following sauces — lobster, 
shrimp, anchovy, or plain butter-sauce with parsley, 
and a little of the salmon-water, with some chopped 
parsley. 

Grilled Salmon. 
Cut one or more slices of salmon about an inch 
thick ; rub them with salad-oil or fresh butter, and 
season with pepper and salt ; place them on a grid- 
iron over a clear fire to broil, carefully turning the 
slices of salmon every five minutes, basting occa- 
sionally either with butter or salad-oil. When the 



22 FISH. 

salmon is done through, which will be accomplished 
in about half an hour — and may be ascertained by 
finding that, on a little pressure, the bone easily 
separates from the fish — place it on a hot dish with 
Italian sauce or brown butter-sauce poured over it 

Fillets of Salmon it tindienne. 

Procure a pound and a half of salmon from the 
tail-end, that part being cheapest ; divide the fish 
from the backbone by running the edge of a knife 
along the side of the spine ; then remove the skin 
in like manner ; cut the fish into neat square pieces 
about a quarter of an inch thick ; dip these fillets 
in some beaten ^gg^ and roll them in bread- 
crumbs ; fry them to a light fawn colour in lard 
previously made very hot for the purpose ; and 
when done, dish them up neatly and pour over 
them some Indian sauce; sprinkle over the fillets 
some finely shred green gherkins. 

Fillets of Salmon a la Ravigote. 

Trim the fillets of salmon in the form of squares 
or ovals ; place them in a j^«//-pan with a little 
clarified butter, pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and 
the juice of half a lemon. Set them upon a slow 
fire until done on one side, and then turn them 
over ; when done through, drain and dish them up 
in a ring. Sauce over with ravigote sauce 

Salmon au Gratin. 

Take some pieces of cold boiled salmon ; put them 
on a flat dish; season with pepper and salt, and 



FISH. 23 

a little catsup: grate a little Parmesan cheese; 
sprinkle it all over the pieces of salmon. Take a 
frying-pan, put it on a slow fire ; put a small piece 
of butter into it ; then put some fine bread-crumbs 
into the pan ; make them light brown ; pour a little 
butter-sauce over the fish and cheese ; sprinkle the 
brown bread-crumbs on the top of the fish and 
cheese. Put it into the oven to heat it thoroughly, 
and brown it with a red-hot salamander. 

Salmon Cadgerre, 

Take half a pound of rice and boil it ; dry it after- 
wards before the fire ; boil two eggs for ten minutes ; 
peel and mince them. Put a stew-pan on the stove 
or on a trivet ; put a small piece of butter into the 
pan ; make it hot ; put in the pieces of salmon, 
then the rice and eggs. Season rather high with 
salt and white pepper ; take a fork and mix it up 
lightly. Make it very hot and dish it. 

Trout 

Boil the trout in water with salt ; when done, dish 
it on a napkin ; garnish it with picked parsley ; 
and serve separately in a sauce-boat any of the 
following sauces — Dutch, parsley, butter, shrimp, or 
anchovy. 

Turbot Plain-Boiled, 

Wash the turbot ; wipe it dry ; rub it over with 
the juice of a lemon and a little salt, and put it into 
a fish-kettle with water sufficient to cover it ; add 
a handful of salt; when the water boils, skim it. 



24 FISH. 

Boil the turbot for half an hour, more or less accord- 
ing to the size of the fish ; when done, lift the turbot 
out carefully upon a drainer ; slide it gently off on 
to the dish covered with a folded napkin ; garnish 
it with picked parsley, and send to table with either 
lobster-sauce or Dutch sauce. 

Turbot with Cream^ au Gratin, 

Take some pieces of cold boiled turbot, and cut up 
the pieces into scallops ; to these add some Bechamel 
sauce ; make the fish hot ; pile it up neatly in a dish ; 
shake over the top some grated Parmesan cheese; 
pour a little cream over all ; brown it on the top 
with a hot salamander. 

Fillets of Turbot. 

A small turbot may be purchased for this purpose ; 
and after cutting out the fleshy parts from the four 
divisions intervening between the fins and the back- 
bone, divide these into square pieces, and place them 
in a saut/'psLti with two ounces of butter, pepper, 
salt, and lemon-juice ; set them in the oven to bake 
for ten minutes. The fillets must be turned over, 
and made brown on both sides ; when done, they 
should be dished up similarly to cutlets, and sauced 
over with Dutch, Indian, lobster, shrimp, or oyster 
sauce. 

Brill. 

This fish very much resembles turbot, and may 
therefore be treated in the same way in all par- 
ticulars. 



FISH. 35 

John Dory 
BotI the fish in water with a little salt ; it must 
be boiled very slowly to prevent it from breaking. 
When the dory is done, dish it up with care, and 
send it to table with lobster, shrimp, anchovy, or 
Dutch sauce. Dories may also be stuffed and baked, 
or grilled, and served with brown caper-sauce. 

Sturgeon d la Cardinal. 
Procure about two pounds of sturgeon ; remove 
the skin with a sharp knife. Tie the piece of fish 
neatly into shape with a string, and place it in a 
stew-pan with sliced carrot, onion, bay-leaf, thyme, 
parsley, a glass of vinegar, four cloves, salt, and a 
bit of mace, and water enough to cover the fish. 
Set this to boil gently until the stui^eon is done, 
which will take more or less time according to 
the size of the piece ; when done, dish up the 
sturgeon ; garnish with a border of quenelles of 
whiting or crayfish placed alternately round it. 
Sauce it over with cardinal sauc& 

Sturgeon Grilled, with Piquante Sauce. 
Procure a slice of stui^eon about an inch thick ; 
rub it over with a littte salad - oil ; season with 
pepper and salt, and broil it over a clear fire until 
done on both sides. Place it on its dish, and pour 
over it some piquante sauce in which there has 
been incorporated one ounce of fresh butter and a 
little anchovy. 



26 FISH. 

Cod with Brown Oyster-Sauce. 

Take a good cod and clean it ; lay it in a good deal 
of salt for one, night ; cut off the head and shoulders, 
and skin it ; roll it up neatly ; cover with the skin, 
and cord it with a piece of twine. Have a fish-pan 
with cold water and two handfuls of salt ; put in the 
fish. Skim carefully when it boils, and draw the 
cover a little to the side ; let it boil for half an hour, 
then take it off the fire ; lift up the drainer, place 
it across the fish-pan, and cover with a cloth ; cut 
away the cord. Take off the skin carefully ; lay it 
on its dish. Make some brown oyster-sauce, and 
pour it over the fish. 

Crimped Cod with Oyster-Sauce, 

Have some water ready boiling on the fire ; place 
the slices of cod on a drainer ; put them into a pan ; 
add a handful of salt; allow them to boil very 
gently for twenty minutes. The slices must be 
immediately dished up as soon as they are done. 
Garnish the slices of crimped cod with picked 
parsley, and some pieces of the liver which have 
been boiled separately, and serve oyster -sauce in 
a sauce-boat 

Cod d VIndienne, 

Fry or grill some slices of cod ; when done, 
dish them, and pour over them some curry-sauce, 
in which have been mixed a little anchovy and 
about two ounces of butter. Serve plain-boiled rice 
separately. 



FISH. 27 

Plain-Boiled Rice for Curries, 

Wash the rice thoroughly in several waters. Put 
a pan on the fire with plenty of boiling water and 
a little salt ; put the rice into the pan and boil .it 
for twenty minutes ; take it off and pour it into a 
drainer. Potlr boiling water over the rice in the 
drainer ; let it drip for a few minutes. Take a 
fork and put it back into the pan ; cover the pan 
with a cloth ; set it near the fire to dry for ten 
minutes ; with a fork touch it up lightly, and dish 
it. Well-cooked rice for curries must be thoroughly 
done, and present a perfectly white and light ap- 
pearance. 

Grilled Haddock. 

Wipe the haddock thoroughly dry, rub it over 
with oil, and then flour it ; broil it upon a gridiron 
over a clear fire; and when done on both sides, 
dish it on a napkin, and serve separately in a 
sauce-boat ; either Dutch, shrimp, anchovy, or butter 
sauce. 

Fillets of Haddock, 

Clean the haddock and skin it,^ take out the 
bone ; cut the fillets four or five inches in length ; 
dip them in beaten egg, and roll them in bread- 
crumbs. Have a pan of very hot lard or dripping 
ready ; put them into the lard to swim ; turn them 
over in the fat ; when they get a nice brown colour 
take them out ; put them before the fire on a cloth 
to free them from all grease ; dish them on a nap- 
kin and garnish with parsley; serve with Dutch 
sauce. 



28 FISH. 

Baked Haddock, 

Prepare the haddock as for boiling ; dust it over 
with flour ; melt a piece of butter and mix with a 
little anchovy. Baste the fish with this ; put it into 
the oven to bake; when done, serve with brown 
oyster-sauce. * 

Fillets of Sole d la New Club, 

Fillet a thick fresh sole ; lay the fillets singly in 
a sautZ-psLti which has been brushed with dissolved 
butter ; season the fillets with pepper and salt and 
a glassful of sherry wine ; cover them with a but- 
tered paper ; put them into the oven for about ten 
minutes. When cooked, pour sauce over them. 

(Sauce for above!) 

Boil the bones of the fish to make a little butter- 
sauce ; to two spoonfuls of this sauce add a spoonful 
of tomato, with half an ounce of fresh butter and 
the stock from the fillets ; whisk it over the fire until 
it becomes of the consistency of thick cream ; pour 
it over the fish, and serve hot. 

This sauce tnay be served with any other sort of 
fish. 

SoleSy Boiled. 

Cut off the rough edge of the fins ; wash them, 
and boil in water with a little salt ; and when done 
through, dish up the sole on a folded napkin, with 
the white side uppermost ; garnish with picked pars- 
ley, and serve either of the following sauces in a 
sauce-boat — anchovy, Dutch, or shrimp. 



FISH. 39 

Soles, Fried. 
Skin the sole, and dust it with a little flour, and 
then with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg ; 
moisten it all over on both sides, and cover it well 
with bread-crumbs, and fry it in very hot lard or 
frying fat, sufficient to swim it. When done through, 
drain the fish on a cloth to absorb all grease ; dish 
it upon a napkin with some fried parsley, and serve 
either Dutch, shrimp, or anchovy sauce. 

Stuffed Soles. 
Bone a sole ; stuff with plain stuffing, and bake it ; 
when done, dish it and reduce the liquor ; add to it 
some cardinal sauce. Pour this over the sole ; gar- 
nish it round with a border of quenelles of whiting ; 
decorate with truffle, and serve. 

{Quenelles for above^ 
Pound in a mortar about half a pound of raw 
whiting, with two ounces of butter and two of bread- 
crumbs; add an egg, and season with pepper and 
salt When the mixture is well pounded, rub it 
through a wire-sieve ; form it into small balls, and 
fry them in boiling fat 

Fillets of Sole. 

Skin the sole and lay it flat on the table; with the 
point of a sharp knife make a deep incision along 
the backbone, and then insert the knife close to the 
head between the fillet and the fin-bones, and pass 
the edge of the knife under the fillet up to the fins 



30 FISH. 

from head to tail : fillet as many soles as may be 
required ; divide each fillet across the centre ; trim 
the ends neatly, and place them in a saut/-p£in 
containing about two ounces of clarified butter; 
season with lemon -juice and a little pepper and 
salt Set the pan on the fire to cook the fillets, 
and in ten or twelve minutes, if thoroughly done, 
drain them upon a napkin to absorb the grease. 
Dish them up in a circular form ; pour over them 
either of the following sauces — ravigote, Dutch, 
cardinal, white, matelote, shrimp, Indian, Italian, 
mussel, or green ravigote. 

Fillets of SoUy Fried, 

When the fillets of soles are trimmed, flour them 
over, and then dip each piece separately in beaten 
egg; roll them in bread-crumbs and place them 
in a wire frying - basket ; have some hot frying 
fat, and immerse the fillets in the basket in it. 
Allow them to fry about ten minutes, by which time 
they will acquire a light-brown colour; they must 
then be withdrawn from the fat, drained on a cloth, 
dished up neatly similarly to cutlets. Serve with 
Dutch or shrimp sauce. 

Fillets of Sole d la Tartar. 

Bread-crumb the fillets of sole in the usual man- 
ner; fry them in two ounces clarified butter in a 
saut/'pan over a sharp fire ; and when done of a 
light brown, drain them on a cloth, and dish them 
up on some Tartar sauce. 



FISH. 31 

Fillets of Gurmt 

These may be prepared in every variety of form 
prescribed for dressing fillets of soles. 

^ Boiled Gurnet. 

Fill the inside of the gurnet with some veal stuff- 
ing ; sew up the flaps ; boil it in water with a little 
salt ; and when done, dish it upon a folded napkin, 
garnish it round with picked parsley, and serve with 
white or brown caper-sauce. 

Boiled Mackerel 

Boil the mackerel in salt and water, and send to 
table with either fennel, parsley, or gooseberry sauce. 

Grilled Mackerel 

Split the mackerel down the back ; season with 
pepper and salt ; oil it over ; place it on a gridiron 
over a moderate fire ; and when done on both sides, 
take it up on a hot dish, and fill the inside with cold 
mattre-d* hotel sauce. 

Mackerel, Filleted. 

Skin and fillet mackerel same as haddock. Put a 
piece of butter in a sautZ-psin ; make it hot, and put 
the fillets in the pan ; season with pepper and salt, 
lemon-juice, and chopped parsley. Set the pan over 
the fire for a quarter of an hour ; when done, drain 
and dish them. Serve with ravigote or Dutch 
sauce. 



32 FISH 

* 

Red Mullets^ Stewed, 

Clean the mullets ; place them in a saut^'pa,n^ 
with a little brown stock. Season with pepper and 
salt, and a little port wine, with half a spoonful of 
thickening. When done, pour the sauce over them, 
and serve. ^ 

Red MulletSy Grilled, 

Season the mullet with pepper and salt; rub it 
over with oil ; place it on a gridiron over a clear 
fire, and grill it on both sides ; dish it, and serve 
with either piquante, tomato, or Italian sauce. 

Red Mullets with Herbs, 

Put the mullets in a j^«//-pan, with an ounce of 
butter, a little Harvey, anchovy, and a glass of port 
wine ; bake them in the oven ; and when done, re- 
move the fish on to their dish : add to their liquor 
some finely chopped mushrooms, parsley, a little 
shallot, nutmeg, the juice of half a lemon, and a 
little flour ; stir these together over the fire for a 
few minutes ; pour the sauce over the mullets, and 
serve quite hot. 

Whitings^ Boiled, 

Boil the whitings in water, with a little salt, for ten 
minutes ; then dish them on a napkin, garnish with 
parsley, and serve with butter-sauce. 

Whitings^ Fried, 

Skin the whiting, and then turn the tail through 
the eyes ; flour it over ; dip it in beaten egg ; toss 



FISH. 33 

It in bread-crumbs ; fry it in boiling lard or frying 
fat When it turns a bright-brown colour, take it 
out of the fat; drain it before the fire for a few 
minutes ; then dish it on a napkin, and serve with 
Dutch sauce. 

Fried Whitings d la Franqaise, 

Wipe the whiting without skinning it; score it 
along both sides by making deep incisions with a 
sharp knife ; dip the fish in a little milk on a plate, 
and flour it over and fry it in plenty of hot fat to 
a light colour and perfectly crisp, and serve with 
anchovy or shrimp sauce 

Fried Smelts. 

Wipe the smelts ; cut off the fins ; roll them in 
flour ; dip them in beaten egg ; roll them in bread- 
crumbs, and fry them in plenty of frying fat. When 
done, dish them up with fried parsley, and serve 
with shrimp or anchovy sauce. 

Baked Smelts. 

Spread the bottom of a dish with butter ; sprinkle 
thereon some raspings of bread ; season with chopped 
parsley and shallots, pepper and salt ; then place the 
smelts in a row, pour over them a little Harvey and 
anchovy sauce ; repeat the butter, seasoning, and 
raspings, and place them in the oven for about a 
quarter of an hour. When thoroughly done, serve hot 

EelSy Fried. 

Skin the eels ; cut them two inches in length ; 
saute them in a little stock for a few minutes ; when 

C 



34 FISH. 

cold, dip them in beaten egg, and roll in bread- 
crumbs ; fry them in boiling lard or frying fat ; they 
will take eight minutes to cook. When done, put 
them before the fire on white paper to free them 
from grease ; dish and serve with Tartar sauce. 



Eel'Pie. 

Prepare the eels same as for frying; place them in 
a pie-dish ; cover them with white stock ; add a little 
Chili vinegar, catsup, and Harvey ; bake in an oven 
for twenty minutes or half an hour, and serve hot 
This pie can also be eaten cold. 



Baked Pike. 

First draw, scale, and wash the pike thoroughly ; 
truss it in the form of an S ; put it in a baking-dish, 
with a little stock, a good piece of fresh butter, two 
table-spoonfuls of catsup, a little anchovy, and some 
chopped parsley and shallot Set the pike in the 
oven to bake until it is done, remembering it must be 
frequently basted with its own liquor, and that the 
heat of the oven must not be fierce, as in that case 
it would burn up the moisture and spoil the fish. 
When thoroughly done through, lift the pike care- 
fully on to the dish ; strain the liquor it has been 
baked with into a stew-pan ; thicken it with two 
ounces of butter, kneaded with two ounces of flour ; 
add a few sliced gherkins and a glass of sherry. 
Stir the sauce over, the fire for ten minutes, pour it 
over the fish, and send to table. 



FISH. 3S 

Pike may be plain boiled, same as haddock, and 
served with plain butter-sauce, anchovy or Dutch 
sauce. Pike may also be filleted, egged, bread- 
crumbed, and fried, same as any other white fish, 
and served with Dutch or anchovy sauce. 

Souchet of Pike. 
Fillet the pike ; pare off the skin ; put the fillets 
to boil for ten minutes in a stew-pan, with some 
weak bright stock and a little chopped parsley, pep- 
per and salt Serve all together ; with thin slices of 
brown bread and butter on a plate separately. 

PercJt. 

Draw and wash the perch ; skin them ; then roll 
in melted butter ; dust them all over with flour ; dip 
them in beaten egg, and roll them in bread-crumbs. 
Fry them In boiling fat ; drain them on paper. 

Perch may be soucheted in the same way as 
pike. 

Pouns, Boiled. 

Scrape and clean the pouns ; put them in a pan 
with cold water ; boil them for ten minutes ; dish 
them on a napkin, and garnish with parsley. Make 
plain butter-sauce, with a little made mustard in it, 
and serve with the pouns. 

Pouns, Fried. 

Egg and bread-crumb the pouns ; fry them in 
boiling fat ; serve with anchovy sauce. 



36 FISH. 

Skate^ Crimped. 

This fish is generally sold in cut stripes, and curled 
round, with a piece of the liver in the centre. The 
ordinary way of treating this fish is to boil it in 
water with a little salt, and serve it with burnt-butter 
sauce, or with Dutch, shrimp, or anchovy sauce. 

Skate is also excellent when bread-crumbed and 
fried, and served with either of the sauces above- 
named, and also with tomato or Indian sauce. 

Crimped Skate, with Brown Butter Sauce, 

Boil the skate in water with salt and a little 
vinegar; when done, dish it up with some of the 
liver, and fried parsley; pour some brown butter 
sauce over it, and serve. 

Whitebait 

Let the whitebait remain in ice till near dinner- 
time ; put some flour in a cloth ; take the fish from 
the ice ; put them on the cloth with the flour ; toss 
them about in the cloth ; place them on the back of 
a wire-sieve ; shake the damp flour from them, and 
fry them in a pan of boiling lard ; four minutes will 
cook them. They should be of a silvery colour, and 
perfectly crisped. Pile them on a napkin ; garnish 
with parsley; serve with brown bread and butter, 
and cut lemon. 

Potted Herrings. 

Take herrings perfectly fresh, and clean them 
well, but do not wash them ; cut off the heads and 



FISH. 37 

fins, and take the bones out ; season them with 
pepper and salt; roll them up tightly; pack them 
in a baking-dish, and pour over them in the propor- 
tion of an English pint of vinegar to two of water, 
with half an ounce of whole pepper. Tie over the 
dish a piece of paper, and bake them in a slow oven 
for an hour. Take ofif the cover when they are cold, 
and pour over them a little cold vinegar. 

To Dress Fresh Herrings, 

Scrape and clean the herrings, but do not wash 
them ; rub them over with olive-oil or a little melted 
butter; dust them with very little flour, and broil 
them upon a gridiron. Serve them with sauce made 
of fresh butter, pepper, vinegar, mustard, and salt. 

Pouns may be done in the same way as fresh 
herrings. 

Scalloped Oysters, 

Remove the beards from some dozens ; strain the 
liquor into a stew-pan ; add thereto two ounces of 
butter, kneaded with two ounces of flour, a little 
cream, anchovy, nutmeg, and cayenne; stir the sauce 
over the fire to boil, and reduce for ten minutes ; then 
add a couple of yolks of eggs, a little lemon-juice, 
and some chopped parsley; add the oysters, cut up; 
stir all together over the fire for a few minutes, and 
fill some scallop-shells with this preparation ; cover 
them over with a thick coating of fried bread-crumbs; 
place them on a baking-sheet in the oven for five 
minutes, and serve them quite hot If you have 
no scallop-shells, the deep shell of the oyster, well 
washed, will serve the purpose. 



38 FISH. 

Scalloped Mussels, 

These are prepared similarly to oysters, and put 
in scallop-shells likewise. Both oysters and mussels 
being first prepared as described, may be served 
upon neatly shaped pieces of toast : this constitutes 
oyster-toast, or mussel-toast 

Scalloped Cockles 

may be prepared the same as scalloped mussels, and 
spread on pieces of dry toast 

Fish-Pie. 

Clean and scald some trout, whiting, or other 
small fish ; cut off their heads and tails, and bone 
them ; put a few bits of butter in the bottom of a 
pie-dish ; lay in the fish, sprinkle with pepper and 
salt, a little minced onion and parsley; beat four 
eggs, and put some of it on the layer offish; then put 
in another, seasoning and egging as before. When 
the dish is full, pour over it a wine-glassful of vine- 
gar and a little mushroom catsup ; cover the dish 
with beat potatoes, and bake for about an hQur. 

Fish' Cakes for Breakfast, 

Mix equal quantities of boiled fish and potatoes ; 
to these add the yolks of two raw eggs, well beaten ; 
mix and roll it out to the thickness of half an inch ; 
cut it into shapes, and fry it in butter or dripping. * 



SAUCES. 



Plain Butter Sauce, 

Take four ounces of butter ; put it in a pan with 
the same weight of flour ; put the pan on the stove 
or slow fire ; melt and mix together ; boil for half a 
minute, then pour in some boiling water until it is 
the thickness of cream ; bring it to the boiling-point, 
stirring all the time. This sauce may be served with 
boiled fish, and it makes a foundation for many other 
sauces. 

White Bechamel Sauce, 

Put four ounces of flour into a stew-pan with 
two ounces of fresh butter; knead these together 
smoothly by working them with a wooden spoon ; 
next add an onion, a small carrot, half a head of 
celery, some parsley, a bay-leaf, and thyme (the vege- 
tables cut small), a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt 
Moisten with a pint and a half of milk ; stir the 
sauce over the fire while it boils sharply for twenty 
minutes; then strain it through a pointed strainer 
into a basin ; afterwards to be put into a convenient- 
sized stew-pan ready for use. 



40 SAUCES. 

Cream Bichamel Sauce. 

Put a pint of white sauce into a stew-pan with 
a few sliced mushrooms ; reduce this by stirring it 
over the fire for ten minutes. Then add half a pint 
of cream ; and as soon as the sauce comes to the 
boil, strain it into a basin or stew-pan for use. 

White Sauce. 

Mix well in a stew-pan two ounces of flour, one 
ounce of butter, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt ; to 
these add a pint of milk ; stir over the fire for ten 
minutes, and strain off for use. 

Brown Butter Sauce. 

Put four ounces of fresh butter in a stew-pan on 
the fire, and keep stirring it until it becomes browned 
by frying. Then add a small glassful of tarragon 
vinegar, ditto of Harvey, a table-spoonful of chopped 
capers, a little anchovy, and either a gill of brown 
sauce or gravy. Boil this all together for five 
minutes, and serve with boiled skate or grilled 
mackerel 

Cardinal Sauce. 

Put a gill of good white sauce into a stew-pan ; 
add some lobster-spawn, a little anchovy, and Chili 
vinegar. Boil it all together, and strain. 

Genoese Sauce. 

To a pint of brown sauce add a glass of wine, a 
table-spoonful of mushroom catsup, a teaspoonful of 



SAUCES. 41 

anchovy, a small piece of sugar, a little nutmeg, and 
some chopped parsley ; boil together for five min- 
utes, and then work in a pat of butter. This sauce 
is used for dressed fish. 

Tomato Sauce. 

Put into a small stew-pan six sliced shallots, a bay- 
leaf, and thyme, and a glassful of vinegar ; boil these 
gently for five minutes ; then add about a quarter 
of a pound of tomato pulp, an ounce of glaze, a 
teaspoonful of anchovy, and a small piece of sugar. 
Stir over the fire until the whole has boiled for five 
minutes ; then pass it through a pointed strainer into 
a small stew-pan for use. 

Brown Caper Sauce. 

Put four ounces of butter in a stew-pan, with an 
ounce of flour, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt ; 
knead these well together with a wooden spoon ; add 
half a pint of stock, a teaspoonful of anchovy, two of 
Harvey, a little browning, a table-spoonful of capers. 
Stir the sauce over the fire until it boils; pass it 
through a pointed strainer into a pan for use. 

White Caper Sauce. 

Four ounces of butter, two of flour, a little nutmeg, 
pepper, and salt, well kneaded together in a small 
stew-pan ; add half a pint of white stock. Stir over 
the fire till the sauce begins to boil ; let it boil for 
five minutes ; add the capers, and serve with boiled 
mutton. 



42 SAUCES. 

Piquant Sauce, ^ 

Prepare of gherkins, capers, and shallots, all 
chopped fine, a table-spoonful of each ; put these in 
a small stew-pan, with a little pepper and a wine- 
glassful of vinegar j set this to boil for four minutes ; 
add half a pint of good stock, an ounce of brown 
thickening, and a . teaspoonful of anchovy ; boil, 
skim, and pour into a small stew-pan for use. 

Italian Sauce. 

Put in a stew-pan a dessert-spoonful of very finely 
chopped shallots, an equal quantity of salad oil, a 
bay-leaf, and thyme ; when the shallot is fried in a 
satisfactory manner, add thereto a table-spoonful of 
chopped mushrooms, a glass of sherry, table-spoon- 
ful of mushroom catsup, teaspoonful of anchovy, half 
a pint of stock ; stir over the fire until the sauce boils ; 
let it boil for ten minutes, skim it, and pour into a 
stew-pan for use. 

Mattre (f hotel Sauce. 

Knead two ounces of fresh butter with one of flour, 
a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, chopped parsley 
and juice of half a lemon. Put this mixture in a 
small stew-pan with a gill of milk ; stir over the fire 
till it boils ; add a bit more butter to smooth it, and 
serve. 

Ravigote Sauce, 

Knead two ounces of fresh butter with two ounces 
of flour, a little nutmeg, pepper and salt, chopped 



SAUCES. 43 

parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. Put this 
mixture in a stew-pan with a gill of white stock ; 
stir over the fire till it boils ; skim it. 

A dessert - spoonful of tarragon, ditto of Chili 
vinegar, ditto of Harvey, and a teaspoonful of 
anchovy; put these ingredients in a separate pan 
and boil for five minutes, and then stir into the 
sauce. 

Reform Sauce. 

Put some brown stock in a small pan, to this add 
a glass of port wine, half that quantity of Harvey 
sauce, a teaspoonful of anchovy, and two table-spoon- 
fuls of red - currant jelly ; boil together for five 
minutes, and pour into a stew-pan for use. 

Robert Sauce, 

Chop two onions very fine, and fry them with a 
piece of butter the size of a walnut in a small stew- 
pan until they get a light fawn-colour, then add a 
wine-glassful of vinegar and a pinch of pepper ; boil 
these together for four minutes ; add a spoonful of 
flour, and half a pint of stock. Stir the sauce over 
the fire for twenty minutes ; then add a table-spoon- 
ful of mustard, one of Harvey, and a teaspoonful of 
anchovy ; mix well together over the fire, and serve 
quite hot 

Lobster Sauce, 

Split a lobster ; remove the pith, coral, and spawn, 
jjfid pound them with an equal proportion of butter 
in a mortar, and afterwards rub through a hair-sieve. 



44 SAUCES. 

on a plate ; break the shell, and remove all the meat ; 
cut it into small square pieces ; next prepare some 
melted butter ; to this add the spawn and the pieces 
of lobster. Season with the juice of half a lemon, 
a teaspoonful of anchovy, and a pinch of cayenne- 
pepper, and serve hot 

Burnt-Butter Sauce. 

Put half an ounce of butter in a small pan ; add a 
little parsley ; fry it until it becomes black and the 
parsley crumbles when pressed with a spoon ; add 
two ounces more butter, a little pepper and salt, and 
the juice of half a lemon. 

Indian Sauce. 

Half a pint of tomato sauce, dessert-spoonful of 
curry paste, a bit of glaze, a little anchovy ; boil 
together. Strain and serve. 

Shrimp Sauce. 

Prepare butter sauce; to this add a teaspoonful 
of anchovy, a small pinch of cayenne, a little lemon- 
juice, and a bit of lobster butter to colour and flavour 
it ; lastly, throw in the picked shrimps, and serve hot 

Mussel Sauce. 

Put a quart of washed mussels into a stew-pan, 
with a gill of water and a teaspoonful of salt ; place 
the lid on the pan ; set the mussels on a brisk fire 
to scald. This will be effected in a few minutes, 
and may be ascertained by the separation of the 



SAUCES. 45 

shells, showing the plump white mussels. These 
should be instantly taken oflF the fire, their liquor 
strained into a basin, and the mussels removed from 
their shells upon a plate. Next make some butter- 
sauce ; beat three yolks of eggs ; add to the liquor 
and mussels ; heat all together, and add a little 
cream; and serve hot 

Anchovy Sauce. 

To some butter sauce add a dessert-spoonful of 
anchovy butter, a pinch of cayenne, and some lemon- 
juice. 

White Oyster Sauce. 

First scald and beard the oysters, and save their 
liquor ; next mix one ounce of butter with one ounce 
of flour, in a stew-pan. Add the liquor, a gill of 
cream or milk, a little nutmeg, cayenne, anchovy, 
and lemon-juice. Stir over the fire until the sauce 
boils ; then add the oysters, and serve hot 

Brozvn Oyster Sauce. 

Prepare the oysters as in the foregoing recipe ; 
boil down their liquor; add half a pint of brown 
sauce. Season with a little anchovy, cayenne, and 
lemon-juice. Add the oysters ; boil together for a 
few minutes, and serve hot 

Egg Sauce. 

Boil two eggs hard, which will require ten minutes ; 
remove the shells; mince the eggs, and put these 
into some well-made butter sauce, and serve hot. 



46 SAUCES. 

Parsley Sauce. 

Chop and parboil for three minutes some parsley ; 
drain free from water, and add this to some butter 
sauce ; work in a pat of butter to smooth the sauce, 
and serve hot. 

The Prince of Wales's Sauce, 

Four hard yolks of eggs, four anchovies, a handful 
of tarragon, chervil, burnet, chives (these to be par- 
boiled, and afterwards pressed in a cloth, to extract 
all the water), a table-spoonful of capers, the same of 
mustard, and three raw yolks of eggs ; place all these 
in a mortar, bruise them together with a pestle, and 
then work in nearly half a pint of salad oil, and half 
a gill of tarragon vinegar by degrees ; when this is 
done, rub the sauce through a hair-sieve. This sauce 
is used for broiled fish, also for all kinds of salads of 
fish, poultry, or game. 

Dutch Sauce, 

Make some butter sauce rather thin ; take the pan 
off the fire, stir in the yolk of an egg well beaten, a 
little lemon- juice, pepper, and salt ; then add a little 
sweet cream ; beat all together with a whisk ; make 
it hot. Be careful not to boil it after the yolk of egg 
has been added, as in that case it would curdle. 

Clear Tarragon Sauce. 

To a pint of good white stock add a small bunch 
of tarragon, the white of an egg whipped in a very 



m..^KK<i<i^i\mmmm,v}y'f>?'ri, 



SAUCES. 47 

little water, and a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar ; 
continue whisking this over the fire until it boils, 
and then remove it to the side, there to remain boil- 
ing until the egg is thoroughly set hard, and the 
aspic is perfectly bright ; then strain it through a 
napkin into a stew-pan, and boil it down to the 
consistency of half glaze. This sauce is used for 
queiuiUs, and boiled fowls or chickens. 

Mayonnaise Sauce. 
Take a round-bottomed basin ; put therein three 
yolks of eggs, and with a wooden spoon work it by 
stirring quickly until the yolks become light ; add 
about half a pint of salad oil, and half a gill of tar- 
ragon vinegar; these must be incorporated by de- 
grees ; and in order to produce the sauce in perfec- 
tion, it must present the appearance of a firm, creamy 
substance. This cold sauce is especially adapted for 
chicken and lobster salads. When made, pepper and 
salt must be added, also two table-spoonfuls of thick 
cream. 

Soubise Sauce. 
Peel and slice eight large onions, and put them 
into a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, a little 
nutmeg, pepper, and salt ; place the lid on, and set 
this to stew very slowly, until the onions are nearly 
dissolved ; add four ounces of flour, two fresh-boiled 
potatoes, and a pint of white stock, half a pint of 
cream ; stir over the fire for a quarter of an hour, 
and then rub through a hair-sieve ; keep hot in a 
covered stew-pan until used. 



48 SAUCES. 

Cardinal Sauce. 

Put a gill of white stock into a small stew-pan, a 
very little flour and butter, add a lump of lobster 
spawn, and a little anchovy and Chili vinegar 

Mustard Sauce, 

Add some butter sauce to a teaspoonful of mus- 
tard, a dessert-spoonful of Chili vinegar, and a little 
anchovy ; make hot, and serve with broiled or fried 
herrings. 

Bread Sauce. 

Take two ounces of bread-crumbs, and put them 
into a pan with a shallot, pepper and salt, half a pint 
of milk, and a pat of butter ; boil and stir for five 
minutes ; take out the shallot, and serve hot 

Matelotte Sauce. 

Make about half a pint of white sauce ; scald and 
beard two dozen oysters ; add them to the sauce 
with their liquor; also a little mushroom catsup, 
a teaspoonful anchovy paste, the juice of half a 
lemon ; stir and boil on the fire for a few minutes. 
Beat the yolks of two eggs ; mix them with half a 
gill of cream ; pour it into the sauce, and stir over 
the fire for a few minutes, and serve with dressed 
fish. 

St Clair Sauce. 

Slice an onion into a stew-pan ; add a piece of 
butter; fry it slightly; season with pepper and 



uruwit siiciiy, nriLU a LCcupuumui ui cctuup. x id.i.c 
the lid on the pan, and let it stew gently for twenty 
minutes ; thicken it with a teaspoonful of flour 
made into a smooth paste with water. Boil, strain, 
and serve very hot with souc^t, or boiled fish. 



Saitce for Trout. 

Put two pats of butter into a small stew-pan, add 
a table-spoonful of flour ; mix it well and make it 
hot ; then add a little hot water, and boil the sauce 
to the thickness of thin cream ; then add the yolk 
of an egg well beaten, a teaspoonful of vinegar, a 
little chopped parsley, and salt to taste. 



Green Gooseberry Sauce. 

Boil a pint of green gooseberries ; drain off the 
water, and rub them through a hair-sieve. Put this 
pulp into a stew-pan, with a wine-glassful of spinach- 
juice ; add a little piece of butter, a pinch of sugar, 
a little grated nutmeg ; pepper and salt to taste. 
Make it hot, and serve with boiled or grilled 
mackerel. 



Fennel Sauce. 

Chop fine a handful of fennel, and parboil it for 
three minutes ; drain free from water, and add this 
to some plain butter sauce ; work in a small pat of 
butter to make it smooth, and serve hot. 



50 SAUCES. 

Port Wine Sauce for Wild Ducks, 

Add the juice of half a lemon to a glass of port 
wine, three shallots sliced, a pinch of cayenne-pepper, 
a table-spoonful of Harvey sauce ; boil for three 
minutes, and strain it into a sauce-boat. 

Allemande Sauce, 

Put a pint of white stock into a sauce-pan ; thicken 
it with two spoonfuls of flour, a few sliced mush- 
rooms, or some mushroom-juice. Reduce this by 
stirring it over the fire for ten minutes; then re- 
move it from the fire for a few minutes ; beat up 
the yolks of four eggs ; mix them with half a pint 
of cream, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, a 
teaspoonful of pounded sugar, and the juice of half 
a lemon ; pour it into the pan, stirring all the time : 
place the pan on the stove; keep stirring; make 
the sauce very hot in order to thicken it, but do not 
allow it to boil, as that would spoil the sauce. Strain 
it off for use. 

Brawn Sauce. 

Mix with a gill of salad oil in a basin, half a gill 
of vinegar, two ounces of brown sugar, the juice of 
an orange, and a table-spoonful of mustard. Mix 
well together, ai>d serve. 

Salmi Sauce, 

Chop up small some trimmings of roast game, and 
put these into a stew-pan, with a bay-leaf, a sprig 
of thyme, and a table-spoonful of salad oil ; fry the 



SAUCES. 51 

whole of a light-brown colour, then add a glass of 
wine, and half a pint of brown stock ; boil gently 
on the comer of the stove for ten minutes ; skim 
and strain into a stew-pan for use. 

Mushroom Sauce, 

One pint of mushroom buttons, salt to taste, one 
blade of mace, one pint of cream, two ounces of 
butter, and flour to thicken it ; boil all together for 
ten minutes. This sauce should be the thickness of 
double cream, and is excellent for boiled fowls. 

Sauce for Boiled Fowls. 

Put some new milk in a pan with one ounce of 
fresh butter ; mix two table-spoonfuls of flour in a 
little cold milk ; pour it into the pan ; put it on the 
stove, keep stirring until it boils ; grate some ham 
or tongue ; mix with the sauce ; pour over the fowls. 

Horse-Radish Sauce, 

Scrape and grate a stalk of horse-radish and 
put it into a basin ; add thereto half a gill of 
cream, same of milk, a dessert-spoonful of made 
mustard, the same of pounded sugar, and a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a little pepper, a table-spoonful of 
vinegar ; mix well together, and serve it cold in a 
sauce-boat, with roast beef. 

Celery Sauce, 

Thoroughly cleanse four heads of celery, and slice 
them very thin ; put them into a stew-pan, with nut- 



52 SAUCES. 

meg, pepper and salt, and four ounces of butter, and 
an onion sliced. Put the lid on the stew-pan, and 
set it over a slow fire to stew very gently, until the 
celery is dissolved, without acquiring any colour; 
then add four ounces of flour and a pint of milk ; 
stir again over the fire until the sauce has boiled 
twenty minutes, and then rub it through a sieve. 
Put it into a stew-pan to be used for boiled poultry 
or game. 

4 

Shallot Graiy. 

Peel SIX shallots and put them into a stew-pan, 
with a glass of vinegar, pepper, and salt ; boil for 
six minutes ; add a gill of brown gravy, and boil a 
little longer; strain through a sieve. Serve for broiled 
meat 

Russian Sauce* 

Put a stalk of horse-radish, scraped, into a stew- 
pan, four sliced shallots, a bay-leaf, and thyme, a 
little raw ham, chopped, nutmeg, pepper and salt, a 
dessert-spoonful of sugar, a small glass of vinegar, 
table-spoonful of wine, and an ounce of butter. Put 
the lid on, and set this to simmer over a very slow 
fire for about twenty minutes ; then add rather more 
than a gill of white sauce, four yolks of eggs, and a 
gill of cream ; stir over the fire until it begins to 
boil, and then strain it through a tammy into a stew- 
pan for use. 

Mint Sauce. 

Take twelve stalks of green mint ; pick off the 
leaves, and wash them ; mince them very small ; 



spoonful of table-salt, and about half a pint of water. 
Put the flour on the pastry-slab; spread it out in the 
centre so as to form a well, in which put the salt, a 
small piece of the butter, the egg, and two-thirds of 
the water required to mix the paste. With the tips 
of the fingers mix the ingredients, gradually adding 
a little more water if necessary. When the whole 
is thoroughly incorporated, sprinkle a few drops of 
water on it, and work the sponge to and fro on the 
slab for two minutes, after which it should be elastic, 
soft, and smooth to the touch. The paste thus far 
prepared must now be spread out with the bent 
knuckles of the right hand on the slab, and having 
pressed the butter in a cloth to extract any milk it 
may contain, place it in the centre of the paste, and 
partially spread it by pressing on it with a cloth. 
The four sides should then be folded over so as 
entirely to cover the butter. 



54 SAUCES. 

Shake a little flour over and under it Shape the 
paste in a square form, measuring about ten inches 
each way ; place this on a flat dish ; put it away for ten 
minutes in a very cool place to keep it firm ; roll it 
out on the slab with a rolling-pin, and shake a little 
flour over and under the paste, to prevent it from 
sticking either to the rolling-pin or slab. Roll the 
paste out to about thirty inches in length ; fold it in 
three equal folds ; press these together by running 
the rolling-pin over the paste ; turn it round and roll 
it out again the reverse way, in the same manner and 
length as before. Fold it in three equally ; fasten 
these folds by running the rolling-pin over them 
with pressure, and set the paste back in a cool place 
to firm for eight or ten minutes. At the end of this 
time give two other turns as just described, and hav- 
ing rested for other eight minutes, it must receive 
two more turns previous to its being cut out for 
baking. 

The next thing to be done is, when after the last 
turn has been given to the paste, and it has been 
rolled out to the thickness of the fourth of an inch, 
and has been allowed to rest in a cool place for five 
minutes, with a plain or fluted tin patty-cutter stamp 
out as many patties as required. Place these on a 
baking-sheet ; egg over their surfaces, and with another 
plain tin round cutter, less in diameter than the one 
with which the patties have been stamped out, make 
a circular incision in the centre of the patty, and 
with the smaller cutter cut out some of the paste for 
tops to the patties. The tops of the cases and their 
lids must be brushed over slightly with a beaten 
egg. They must now be placed on a baking-sheet, 



SAUCES. 



55 



and put in a brisk oven, and baked about twenty 
minutes ; and when done, remove the tops and the 
crumbs from the interior with a small-pointed knife. 
The patties being made according to the foregoing 
directions, are to be filled, just before sending to 
table, with prepared oysters, or shell-fish of any 
kind, game, or poultry. 



ENTRIES. 



Oyster Patties. 

To prepare oysters for patties, put fresh oysters in 
a pan with a small blade of mace ; scald them, but do 
not let them boil ; pick out the oysters and beard 
them ; pour the liquor through a sieve. Put a piece 
of fresh butter in a small stew-pan ; add a little 
flour, half the weight of the butter ; mix the two 
together, then pour in the liquor of the oysters, and 
boil it for a few minutes. Cut the oysters in two, 
add them to the sauce, season with pepper and salt, 
and a little thick sweet cream. Make the cases very 
hot, then fill with the mixture ; sprinkle a few fried 
bread-crumbs on the top; put on their lids; dish 
them on a napkin, and serve them very hot 

Fried Oysters. 

Take some large fresh oysters ; dust them with a 
little flour ; dip them in beaten ^^^^ and roll them in 
fine bread crumbs ; fry them in a pan, with boiling 
lard, to a light-brown colour : three or four minutes 
will cook them. Pile them in the middle of an entrie 



ENTRIES. 57 

dish; shake fried bread-crumbs on the top, and thicken 
their own liquor, and pour it round them. 

Oyster Souffli, 

Scald and beard two dozen oysters; to these 
add an ounce and a half of panada, an ounce of but- 
ter, and the yolks of three eggs ; pound in a mortar, 
then rub through a wire-sieve ; add one gill of oyster 
liquor, and one of whipped cream ; season with 
cayenne-pepper and salt, the squeeze of a lemon, the 
whites of two eggs, previously beat to a snow. Mix 
the whole lightly, and pour into a mould which has 
been brushed with dissolved butter : put a buttered 
paper on the top, and steam the souffli for about 
half an hour. Then dish it, and pour white oyster 
sauce over it. 

{Panada for above,) 

Steep one pound of new bread in tepid water; 
wring it in a cloth to extract the moisture ; put it in 
a stew-pan, with an ounce of butter and a little salt ; 
stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until it 
ceases to adhere to the pan. 

Curried Oysters. 

Take fifty or more oysters ; scald and beard them ; 
strain their liquor in a basin ; next put a piece of 
butter and the same weight of flour in a saut/'pan ; 
make it hot, and mix it well ; then add one dessert- 
spoonful of curry powder, half that quantity of curry 
paste ; boil all together. Add the oysters, and sea- 
son with salt; let it simmer very slowly for ten 



58 ENTRIES. 

minutes. Have some rice, plain boiled, and very 
well dried ; make a wall of rice round the dish ; take 
the pan with the curry from the fire ; add a wine- 
glassful of thick cream to the curry. Pour the whole 
in the middle of the dish, and serve very hot. 

Oyster Cutlets. 

Beard the oysters and strain their liquor ; fry 
some bread-crumbs with a little butter; add them 
to the liquor; mince the oysters with a little parsley; 
put all these in a small pan and boil for a little ; 
season with pepper and salt ; add the yolks of two 
eggs ; let it cool. Shape the cutlets ; egg and bread- 
crumb them ; fry in boiling lard ; garnish with pars- 
ley ; serve hot. 

Oyster Croquettes, 

Scald and beard two dozen oysters ; cut each into 
four pieces, and set them aside on a plate. Next, 
with their liquor, make some oyster sauce ; reduce 
the sauce by boiling down over the fire ; add a bit 
of glaze, and three yolks of eggs, a little cayenne, 
lemon-juice, and anchovy, and stir the sauce again 
over the fire to set the eggs; add the cut-up oysters; 
stir these in to mix them with the sauce, and make 
the oysters hot through. The mixture must not be 
boiled after the eggs have been added. Spread it 
out on a dish ; let it become cold, then form the cro- 
quettes in the shape of small pears, balls, or corks. 
Again have them dipped in beaten ^g%, rolled in 
bread-crumbs, placed in a wire frying-basket, and 
fried in hot frying-fat to a light colour, and dished 



on a napkin, with fried bread-crumbs sprinkled over 
them, and garnished with fried parsley. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Remove the beards from some dozens of oysters ; 
strain the liquor in a stew-pan ; add thereto two 
ouncbs of butter, mixed with two ounces of flour, a 
little cream, anchovy, nutmeg, and cayenne ; stir 
the sauce over the fire to boil, and reduce for ten 
minutes, then add a couple of yolks of eggs, a little 
lemon-juice, and some chopped parsley. Add the 
oysters ; cut each into halves ; stir all together over 
the fire for a few minutes, and fill some scallop- 
shells with this preparation ; cover them over with 
a thick coating of fried bread-crumbs ; place them 
on a baking-sheet in the oven for five minutes, and 
serve them quite hot 

In absence of scallop-shells, the deep shell of the 
oyster, well cleaned, will serve the purpose. 

Scalloped Mussels. 

These are prepared similarly to oysters, and 
placed in scallop-shells likewise. 

Scalloped Cockles are done in the same way 
as mussels, and baked in oyster-shells, or on a flat 
dish that will withstand the oven. 

Scalloped Lobster. 

Split a fresh-boiled lobster into halves, by cutting 

it through with a strong knife from head to tail ; 

take out all the meat without damping the shell ; 



6o ENTRIES. 

trim the ragged edges of the two halves of the body- 
shell, and likewise the tail and claw pieces. Let all 
the meat be cut into small squares and reserved 
in a plate. Pound the pith, coral, and spawn of the 
lobster in a mortar with a small bit of butter. Rub 
it through a sieve, and put this into a stew-pan, with 
a little white sauce, a little anchovy, nutmeg, cay- 
enne, and lemon-juice ; and having stirred the sauce 
over the fire for a few minutes, add the lobster and 
the yolks of two raw eggs ; stir again over the fire to 
make it hot ; fill the prepared lobster-shells with this ; 
cover them over with fried bread-crumbs, salaman- 
der them, and dish up on a folded napkin with fried 
parsley. 

Note. — Oysters and mussels being first prepared 
as described for Scalloped Oysters, may be served 
on dry toast. This is called Oyster Toast, or Mussel 
Toast 

Lobster Croquettes. 

Take one or two lobsters as may be required ; put 
them in boiling water and boil them for twenty 
minutes ; when cold, break up the lobster ; take all 
the meat carefully out of the shells, and mince it 
small ; then put the bruised coral and spawn into a 
saut^'paxiy with two spoonfuls of white sauce, and 
three yolks of eggs, a little nutmeg, cayenne, and 
anchovy. Stir this over the fire with a wooden 
spoon to set the egg firm in the mixture. When 
this is done, turn the croquette meat out on a plate, 
and set it to cool, and finish as directed for Oyster 
Croquettes. 

Note.— -Attention must be paid to the proper 



ENTR]feES. 6i 

time required for boiling a lobster. If it is boiled 
too long, the flesh becomes thready and disagree- 
able ; and if not done enough, the spawn is not red 
through. This must be obviated by great attention. 

Lobster Loaf, 

Boil a lobster and take off" the four large claws ; 
break the shells without bruising the meat ; put the 
meat of the claws away on a plate. Next take all 
the meat from the body and small claws, pound it 
in the mortar with an egg and a little fresh butter ; 
add a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt to 
taste ; then butter a jelly-pot of the proper size to 
hold the mixture; put it into the jelly-pot, tie a 
piece of white paper over it ; steam it in a flat pan 
with a little boiling water for half an hour. While 
the loaf is steaming, take a small j^«//-pan, and 
pour in a little clear brown stock ; thicken with a 
little arrowroot; season with a little lemon -juice, 
pepper and salt to taste ; then place the meat of the 
claws into the pan with the sauce ; stew very slowly 
for ten minutes. When the entrh is to be served, 
turn out the loaf on the middle of the dish, put the 
claws round it, pour sauce oyer all ; place the shell 
of the head on the top of the loaf for ornament. 

Lobster Cutlets. 

When the lobster has been boiled and become 
cold, take out all the meat; mince it very fine; brown 
two ounces of butter with a table-spoonful of flour, 
and put in the mince ; season with white' pepper, a 



62 ENTRIES. 

pinch of cayenne, one teaspoonful of lemon pickle, 
and two table-spoonfuls of white stock or gravy, and 
stir it over the fire until it is well mixed, and quite 
hot If one lobster, beat up one egg ; if more, two 
will be required. Add to the mince, and stir it a 
little ; lay it upon a dish until it is cold ; make them 
in the form of lamb-cutlets ; brush them over with 
beat yolks of eggs, and shake bread-crumbs over 
them ; have the frying-pan ready with boiling lard 
or fresh dripping; fry them a nice light brown. 
Stick into the narrow end of the cutlet a joint of the 
small claw; place them upon a napkin round the dish, 
and garnish with parsley in the centre. 

Crab Cutlets are done in the same way as 
lobster cutlets. 

Bouch^es of Lobster, 

Take a fresh-boiled lobster ; break the shell and 
remove the meat, coral, and spawn. Steep four 
ounces of bread-crumbs in warm milk, and wring 
it in a cloth to extract the moisture, and add it to 
the lobster. Pound it in a mortar, with four ounces 
of butter, two whole eggs, and two yolks ; season 
with a tea-spoonful of anchovy, a little grated nut- 
meg, pepper, and salt Pound and mix the force- 
meat thoroughly ; then make it up into balls about 
the size of a walnut ; flatten them slightly to prevent 
them rolling, and place them in a pan with boiling 
water, seasoned with a little salt, and poach them 
for about ten minutes. Remove them from the pan, 
and place them on a hot flat dish. Cover each 
bouch/e with thick white sauce. Dish them on a 



ENTR]feES. 63 

stand of puff-paste about half an inch thick ; sprinkle 
over with a little of the lobster coral, and serve hot 



Fish Souffle. 

Pound in a mortar one pound of boiled whiting, 
with two ounces of butter, one ounce of panada, and 
the yolks of two eggs. Rub through a wire-sieve, 
and add two spoonfuls of cream ; season with pepper 
and salt ; mix in lightly the two whites of eggs, pre- 
viously beat to a snow ; pour the mixture into a 
mould and steam for an hour. When dished, pour 
Dutch sauce over it 

Fillets of Beef , 

Take some slices of the middle of the fillet, retain- 
ing the fat, an inch thick, and season with a little 
pepper and salt ; melt a little fresh butter on a plate ; 
dip those slices in the butter, that the gravy may 
not drop out whilst broiling. Put the gridiron on a 
clear fire ; make it hot ; rub it with suet, then broil 
the fillets, turning them every minute ; eight or ten 
minutes will cook them. When done a nice brown 
colour, dish them on a very hot dish ; garnish with 
olives, and horse-radish scraped, and put in the 
centre of the dish in the form of a rose ; serve with 
a little pure beef gravy, made hot This dish may be 
garnished with potato ribbons or chips. 

To make potato ribbons, peel raw potatoes with a 
sharp knife ; run it round the potato, cutting a long 
thin slice resembling a ribbon, two inches wide and 
five or more in length ; put these in a frying-basket, 



•'!^>i 



64 ENTRIES. 

and fry in boiling fat till brown and crisp ; cut the 
chips in thin slices, and fry them the same way. 

Beef Olives. 

Cut some thin slices of beef from the steak piece ; 
prepare a force-meat of bread-crumbs, minced suet, 
a little chopped parsley, and one egg; mix well 
together, and put a little bit of the force-meat over 
the steaks ; roll and tie them up with tape. Take 
a stew-pan that will just hold them ; brown a piece 
of butter with flour ; brown the olives well ; add a 
little stock, a few small onions, and stew them 
slowly for an hour; add a little catsup and cay- 
enne-pepper. When they are cooked, take them up 
on a dish ; cut off the string ; have them all the 
same length. Strain the stock ; free it from grease ; 
put it back into the pan, and also the olives, and 
make them very hot Put some beat potatoes on 
the centre of the dish ; stick the olives on their ends 
in the potatoes ; garnish with pickled vegetables 
according to taste ; pour gravy round them. 

Rolled Beef Collops. 

Chop some mushroom, parsley, and shallots; fry 
these with an ounce of butter ; season with nutmeg, 
pepper and salt, and lemon- juice ; add two yolks of 
eggs. Stir over the fire until the herbs are thickened, 
and then divide this composition among the pre- 
pared collops of beef, and roll them up in the form 
of large corks, then place them in a j^z«//-pan, in 
some clarified butter ; set them in the oven for ten 



ENTRIES. 6s 

minutes, and when done, drain and dish them up 
neatly, pour some brown oyster sauce over them, 
and serve. 

Fillets af Beef with Mushroom Sauce. 

For this purpose procure about a pound and a 
half of fillets of beef; pare off all sinew and excess 
of fat ; cut the fillet in slices about half an inch thick, 
and season them on a plate with a little oil, pepper, 
and salt ; broil on both sides ; pour some brown 
mushroom sauce over them-, have ready boiled car- 
rots, turnips, and beet-root ; scoop them out with a 
small cutter, make them hot, and sprinkle over the 
fillets. 

Ox Palates, Braised. 

The ox palates must be soaked in water with a 
handful of salt for several hours ; they must next be 
parboiled in water, with salt, until the thorny skin is 
easily scraped off. When thoroughly washed, they 
must be put in a stew-pan with carrot, onion, celery, 
a little parsley, six cloves, mace, pepper-corns, a 
little salt, and three quarts of water or stock, and 
boiled very gently for four hours. When quite ten- 
der they must be pu:t In press between two dishes, 
until cold ; then cut them In nice square pieces, 
or stamp them out with a circular tin cutter the 
size of a crown-piece, put them in a stew-pan with 
some of their own stock previously boiled down to 
half glaze, and simmer for ten minutes. Place them 
neatly round the dish ; pour Italian or any other 
brown sauce over the palates ; place mushrooms, 
green peas, or asparagus peas in the centre of the dish. 

E 



66 ENTRlfeES. 

Ox Palates, Stuffed, 

Get four ox palates ; wash them well in water 
with salt ; put them on to boil slowly for one hour. 
Then take them out and skin them ; let the water 
remain in the pan, and reduce it to half a pint, and 
strain it. When the palates are cold, trim them 
neatly ; spread them over with plain stuffing. Roll 
them up and tie them with a piece of tape. Brown 
a piece of butter with flour. Brush the palates over 
with a beaten Qggy put them in the stew-pan, and 
brown them ; pour in the stock which has been 
strained, shake them till they boil, and let them 
simmer till wanted. Before dishing add a teaspoon- 
ful of catsup, cut off the tape, place them neatly 
round the dish, and pour the sauce in the centre. 

Ox Palates, Curried. 

§ 

Wash, parboil, and skin the palates ; cut them as 
for braising ; put them in a stew-pan, and cover them 
with brown stock, two sliced onions, and a little salt, 
then add two teaspoonfuls of curry powder, one of 
curry paste, and a dessert-spoonful of flour in a 
little stock. Put all these ingredients into the pan 
with the palates ; stir it occasionally to prevent it 
burning. When the palates are quite tender and 
ready to dish, add two table-spoonfuls of cream, and 
serve plain boiled rice with them. 

Veal Cutlets. 

Cut some slices from the fillet or ribs of veal ; 
egg and bread-crumb them ; fry them a nice brown 



ENTRIES. 67 

colour, and dish them in a circle with pieces of ham 
or bacon between the cutlets. Pour brown sauce 
round them. 

Veal Cutlets d la Financikre. 

About SIX bones of the best end of a neck of veal 
will be required for this purpose. The chine-bone 
must first be removed with a small saw, and also the 
upper part of the cutlet or rib bones, leaving the 
bones intended to form the cutlets only about three 
inches in length. The cutlets must then be divid- 
ed, trimmed, and closely larded ; next overlay the 
bottom of a stew-pan with sliced carrot, onion, 
celery, parsley, and an onion stuck with four cloves. 
Place the larded cutlets on this bed of vegetables ; 
moisten with stock or water, just enough to reach 
up to the edge of the larding. Set the pan on the 
fire to boil, and then put it in the oven to braise for 
about an hour and a half, basting the cutlets fre- 
quently with their own liquor. When they are cook- 
ed, and of a nice brown colour, dish them, with the 
bones under, thus showing the larded part upper- 
most Use the strained stock from the cutlets to 
make the sauce; pour the sauce round the dish; 
fill up the well in the centre with stewed mush- 
rooms, or green peas. 

Veal Fricandelles. 

One pound of veal, half a pound of fat of veal 
chopped very finely together, the crumbs of a French 
roll well soaked in boiling milk and then drained, 
mix it with the veal, add two eggs well beaten, 



68 ENTR]feES. 

season with pepper and salt, and a little nutmeg. 
Make this into balls the size of a walnut, dress them 
with egg and bread-crumbs. Fry them in boiling 
lard to a light-brown colour; take them from the 
lard, and drain them on paper. Stew them in good 
stock for half an hour^ dish them, and pour the 
gravy over them. 



Veal Sweetbreads with White Mushroom Sauce. 

Wash the sweetbreads ; put them on to boil for half 
an hour ; when cold trim them, cut off the pieces of 
fat, and put them back into a pan that will just hold 
them ; cover them with white stock ; stew them till 
tender ; dish them on a bed of beat potatoes ; pour 
white mushroom sauce over them. Take the half of 
a lemon and slice it; cut the slices in leaves and 
ornament the dish. 



Sweetbreads Larded with Truffles. 

Parboil the sweetbreads; press and trim them. 
Cut each sweetbread in two, in the form of cutlets ; 
glaze them slightly. Take some truffles and slice 
them lengthwise, then cut them in chips, and with 
a larding needle pull the chips of truffles through 
the sweetbreads, leaving half-inch lengths of truffles 
sticking up all over the sweetbreads. Then put the 
sweetbreads in a j^«//-pan with some clean brown 
stock. Stew them very gently until tender; dish 
them in a hot entree dish ; mix a little arrowroot 
in cold water — add to the stock. Boil for a few 



ENTRlfeES. 69 

minutes, season with pepper and salt, pour round 
the sweetbreads. 

Sweetbreads with White Sauce. 

Sweetbreads might be done in the same way as 
above, and served with white sauce. After the sweet- 
breads have been thoroughly cooked and trimmed, 
have some cream bechamel sauce ready ; beat up 
the yolk of an egg, add it to a teacupful of the 
sauce, and pour it over the sweetbreads ; stick them 
with truffles, make hot, and pour sauce round them. 

Sweetbreads d la Toulouse, 

Soak the sweetbreads in water for two hours to 
extract all the blood ; parboil them for five minutes, 
just to firm them, and after being cooled in water, 
trim and lard them closely ; place them in a deep 
saut/'psLU on a thin bed of sliced carrot, onion, and 
celery ; moisten with just enough stock to reach up 
to the commencement of the larding. Put them in 
a rather hot oven to braise for about twenty minutes, 
basting them frequently with their own liquor, and 
when done, salamandered, and glazed, pile them up 
on a bed of asparagus peas ; strain the stock, thicken 
it a little, skim off the fat, and pour it round the 
sweetbreads. 

To Dress Sweetbreads Plain. 

Boil and trim the sweetbreads ; beat up an egg, 
season it with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Brush 
them over with the egg ; roll them in bread-crumbs; 
fry them in boiling lard or dripping ; put them be- 



70 ENTRIES. 

fore the fire to drain, and keep them hot. Have a 
dish of spinach, or boiled whole rice ; place it in the 
centre of the dish, and the sweetbreads round it 
Serve with beef gravy. 

Cutlet d la Jardinikre, 

Take the best end of neck of mutton, cut some 
neat chops, lay them in a stew-pan, cover them with 
some good gravy, add onion and carrot ; cut some 
sweet herbs, pepper and salt, stew them gently till 
tender; then take them out and strain the gravy, 
add a little glaze ; put the whole in the pan for a 
short time, and serve with onion sauce. 

Mutton or Lamb Cutlets with Tomato Sauce, 

Cut the cutlets off the loin and back ribs, and 
trim them ; then dip them in the beaten yolk of 
eggs ; have some parsley minced, a little nutmeg, 
the grating of a lemon, pepper and salt. Mix these 
together and dip the cutlets into it Fry them on 
both sides till they become a nice light brown ; then 
put them before the fire upon paper to drain ; dish 
them in a circle round the dish ; pour some tomato 
sauce round them, and some whole tomatoes in the 
centre — when whole tomato is not to be had, green 
peas or asparagus peas may be substituted, and also 
a macMoine of vegetables. 

To Prepare a Mac^doine of Vegetables. 

Scrape two or more carrots, and peel a like 
number of turnips, and then with French vege- 



ENTRIES. 71 

table scoops shape the carrots and turnips into 
the form of olives, filberts, almonds, or peas ; boil 
these in water; when done, drain them dry and 
put them in a small sautZ-psm with a like quantity 
of green peas, asparagus peas, nibs of cauliflower, 
and French beans cut in the shape of diamonds. 
All these vegetables must be previously cooked and 
well drained. Add two table-spoonfuls of stock, a 
little pepper and salt, and a teaspoonful of sugar ; 
toss the maMoine lightly together over the fire, 
and serve when required. 

Reform Chips, 

Boiled red parts of carrots, turnips, truffles, lean 
part of boiled ham, hard-boiled whites of eggs, and 
the outer part of green gherkins. These must be 
neatly shred into strippets about an inch in length, 
and as narrow as they can be cut These chips 
should be made hot in a basin in the screen, tossed 
lightly to mix them, and piled up in the centre of 
cutlets 4 la R^forme. 

Mutton Cutlets d la R/forme, 

Trim the cutlets, season them with pepper and 
salt, dip them in beaten eggs, and then bread-crumb 
them with equal parts of dried bread-crumbs and 
finely chopped lean cooked ham mixed together. 
The cutlets must then be fried on both sides, and, 
when thoroughly done, are to be dished up in a 
circle, the centre garnished with reform chips ; pour 
some reform sauce over the cutlets, and serve. 



72 ENTRlfeES. 

Soubise Cutlets, 

Boil a loin of mutton till rather underdone ; when 
cold, cut it up in neat cutlets,, season them- with 
pepper and salt ; have a small panful of soubise 
sauce ready, beat up. the yolks of twa eggs, pour 
some of the sauce to the yolks, add a little cream, 
the grating of a nutmeg, pepper and salt;, when 
quite cold and thick, take a knife and spread a 
coating of this mixture on one side of each cutlet ; 
smooth it nicely with a knife; Cut a few truffles, in 
slices, and with a small tin cutter cut stars or dia- 
monds from the truffles ; place one of these on each 
cutlet ; bake them in the oven a nice brown colour. 
Dish them in a circle; pour some plain soubise saxsi^ 
round the cutlets. 

Pluviers dr la Cenare-, 

Bone some snipes and. fry their trails wiih mush- 
rooms, season with pepper and salt; with this stuff 
the birds, keeping them in shape ;. then roll them in 
flour-and-water paste ; bake them in an oven. Re- 
move the birds from the paste, and dish them upon 
a stand of boiled rice ; pour salmi sauce over them, 
which has been made from the bones of the birds 
and boiled down to half glaze. Garnish with cocks- 
combs, truffles, and mushrooms. 

Mutton Cutlets d la Vicomtesse, 

Trim, season, and fry the cutlets, and when done 
on both sides, add chopped mushrooms, a little 
cooked ham, parsley, and shallots ; season with nut- 



ENTRIES. 73 

meg, pepper and salt, the juice of a lemon, and a 
pinch of sugar. Add a table-spoonful of flour, mois- 
ten with half a pint of stock and an ounce of glaze ; 
stir the sauce on the fire- until it has boiled for twenty- 
minutes, and is reduced to a proper thickness; 
about four raw yolks of eggs must then be added, 
and stirred in with the sauce over the fire to bind it. 
The cutlets and sauce should now be allowed to 
cool partially, and then each cutlet must be covered 
over with some of the sauce and placed flat on a 
dish to become cold and set firm, so as they may be 
properly egged and bread-crumbed Place the cut- 
lets in order in a frying-basket ; immerse them in 
boiling lard, and fry them a light-brown colour; dish 
them up with a small paper frill on the bone of each 
cutlet ; garnish the centre with any kind of dressed 
vegetables. Pour some sauce round the cutlets, and 
serve hot. 

Lamb Cutlets may be dressed in the same way 
as Mutton Cutlets* 

Croiistades with Marrow^ 

Take a plain round tin cutter (the size of a cork) 
and dip it in hot water ; cut out from solid butter 
as many croustades- as may be required for a dish ; 
dip them in beaten eggs, and roll them in bread- 
crumbs ; allow them to stand for about an hour, then 
dress them a second time ; with another cutter, less 
in diameter than the one with which the croustades 
have been cut out, make a circular incision in the 
centre of each one. Place them in a frying-basket 
(about an inch distant from each other), immerse it 



74 ENTRl^ES. 

in boiling lard, and fry them to a pale brown. With- 
draw the basket from the pan and lift off the tops of 
the crousiadeSy let the interior butter drop out ; turn 
them up-side-down on a cloth, and put them in the 
screen to dry. 

Procure a marrow-bone and cut the marrow into 
pieces the size of a filbert ; parboil them in boiling 
milk and water seasoned with salt, for one minute, 
then drain them in a sieve ; put the pieces of marrow 
in Italian sauce, and fill the croustades with the 
mixture ; put on their lids and dish them on a nap- 
kin ; serve them hot Croustades may be filled 
with prepared game, or shell-fish of any sort. 

Mentone Cutlets. 

Cut and trim some mutton cutlets which have been 
kept till tender ; season and fry them on both sides. 
Finish exactly in the same manner as Cutlets ^ la 
Vicomtesse^ with this exception, that instead of 
bread - crumbing them, they must be incased in 
papers cut into the shape of cutlets. Put a coating 
of the sauce on both sides of the cutlets ; envelop 
them in the prepared papers previously brushed on 
both sides with dissolved butter ; twist in the edges 
of the papers in order to prevent the sauce from 
escaping while the cutlets are being browned. Brush 
a baking-sheet with dissolved butter, place the cut- 
lets on it, and put them in the oven for about ten 
minutes to become thoroughly hot and slightly 
browned ; let them remain in their cases. Dish them 
on a napkin with fried parsley in the centre, and 
serve them hot. 



ENTRIES. 75 

Pheasant Cutlets, 

Cut some cutlets from the breast of a tender 
pheasant ; season them with a little salt and white 
pepper ; lay them in a frying-pan which has been 
rubbed with butter. Cut a round of paper the size of 
the pan ; brush it with dissolved butter and lay it 
over the cutlets ; put them in the oven to cook. 
Dish them in a circle and pour white sauce over 
them ; put a piece of tongue cut in the form of a 
cutlet between the pieces of pheasant, with cooked 
mushrooms in the centre. 

Fillets of Mutton^ Stewed, 

Remove the fillets from the spinal bones of a loin 
of mutton, and then pare away all the fat and 
sinew ; divide it across ip two equal parts ; again 
subdivide these lengthwise, each into four fillets. 
If properly cut they will not require trimming. 
Season the fillets with pepper and salt ; put a piece 
of butter in a stew-pan with a spoonful of flour; 
brown it slightly ; put the fillets into the pan, brown 
them on both sides, add brown stock to cover them. 
Let them stew slowly until tender. When done, 
dish them in a circle upon a bed of beat potatoes, 
with a mac^doine of vegetables in the centre of the 
fillets. Skim all the fat off the sauce, and pour 
over the fillets, and serve the whole very hot 

Tendons of Veal, 

That part of the calf which is called tendons con- 
sists of the gristly portion of the breast-bone, which 



76 ENTRjfcES. 

has not yet become hardened into bone. Divide 
the tendons into square pieces the size of a cutlet ; 
place these in a stew-pan, on a bed of carrots, onions, 
turnips, celery, parsley, cloves, a few pepper-corns, 
and a little salt ; add sufficient stock, or water, to 
swim them. Put the lid on and set them to braise 
very gently on a slow fire for about four hours. 
When the tendons are done through, which will be 
ascertained by their becoming almost transparent, 
and comparatively soft to the probe of a fork, they 
must be carefully removed, with a small skimmer, 
one by one, and placed between two earthen dishes, 
put in the larder to become partially cold, in order 
that they may be neatly trimmed, and placed in a 
saut/'pdLti with their own liquor previously freed 
from grease,, and boiled down to glaze. Make them 
hot and roll them in their glaze ; dish them up in a 
circular row ; garnish the centre with dressed spin- 
ach ; pour the remainder of their glaze round the 
base, and serve. 

NOTK — Tendons af Veal may also be served with 
stewed peas, or any other vegetable garnish. 

Curried Tendons of Veal. 

Braise the tendons as directed in the preceding 
case, and use their stock to make some curry sauce ; 
put the tendons in this to simmer for a while. Dish 
them up with fried bacon between each tendon, pour 
the sauce over the entr^e^ and serve plain boiled rice 
in a dish separately. 



ENTRIES. 77 

Fillets of Chicken^ Frittered. 

Skin a chicken ; cut the fillets from the breast; cut 
the thick end of the legs in two ; season them very 
slightly with salt and white pepper ; dust them over 
with flour. Have some frying batter ready ; roll the 
fillets into the batter, and fry them in boiling lard. 
They should be a light-brown colour. When done, 
drain them on paper; dish them on a folded napkin. 
Fry some gelatine in boiling lard for two minutes 
(the gelatine must be the colour of silver) ; garnish 
the fillets with the fried gelatine, and serve hot 



Frying Batter. 

To half a pound of flour add one ounce of dis- 
solved butter, a little salt, and the yolk of an egg ; 
mix these together with a wooden spoon, pouring in 
at intervals about a breakfast-cupful of tepid water. 
Let this batter be well worked with the spoon until 
it presents a smooth creamy appearance. It must 
be set aside for an hour or so, and when about to 
use it, add lightly two whites of eggs, previously 
whisked into a firm froth. 



Cream of Chicken. 

Skin a chicken, and cut all the meat off* the bones, 
and pound it in a mortar ; when well pounded, rub 
all the meat through a fine wire-sieve, and season 
with salt, white pepper, and a very little nutmeg ; 
then mix in some sweet cream with the purde of 



78 ENTRjfeES. 

chicken. It should be the thickness of very thick 
cream. Then take a convenient-sized mould, rub 
the inside with fresh butter, slice some truffles, and 
with a very small tin cutter cut out any ornament 
from the truffle ; ornament the sides and bottom of 
the mould ; pour the mixture into the mould, tie a 
buttered paper over the top, and put it into a pan 
of boiling water. Place a close cover on the pan. 
The water should not be allowed to boil after the 
mould has been put into the pan, but must be left 
on the stove to steam about two hours. When 
wanted, turn it out on its dish, and pour white mush- 
room sauce round it, and serve hot 



Bouch^es of Leveret, 

Pound the meat of a leveret or hare in a mortar, 
rub it through a sieve, and season with pepper and 
salt ; mix cream with the meat until it becomes like 
batter.; pour the mixture in a flat dish, and bake for 
about twenty minutes in a slow oven ; when firm, 
cut with a cutlet-cutter, and dish in a circle. Pour 
reform sauce round the base, and fill the centre 
with boiled celery cut into bits. 



Cream of Rabbit 

This is prepared in the same way as cream of 
chicken, and may be steamed in a casserole shape, 
and the centre filled with mushrooms, green peas, or 
asparagus peas, and mushroom sauce or bichatnel 
sauce poured round it 



ENTRl^ES. 79 

Quenelles of Chicken. 

Skin the chicken, cut all the meat off the bones, 
pound it well in a mortar, add an egg ; pound a little 
longer, and add two more whites of eggs; pound 
well after the last white is added, season with pepper 
and salt, and a little grated nutmeg; rub the mixture 
through a fine wire-sieve ; take a dessert-spoon and 
dip it in cold water, fill the spoon with the mixture, 
smooth the top with a knife ; then drop the quenelle 
into a stew-pan with plenty of boiling watbr, seasoned 
with salt When all the mixture has been shaped 
into quenelles and put into the pan of boiling water, 
the pan must then be placed on the stove, and allowed 
to boil slowly for twenty minutes. They must then 
be lifted out carefully with a small fish-slice or vege- 
table-spoon, and allowed to drip a little, and dished 
in a circle round the dish, and sauced over with 
white sauce, and the centre garnished with prepared 
cockscombs, or with mushrooms, green peas, or as- 
paragus peas. 

When cockscombs cannot be had fresh from the 
birds, they may be got in bottles; and they only 
require to be stewed in a little stock till tender. 

Quenelles made from Cold Roast Fowl 

Take the white meat of a fowl, scrape free from 
sinews and skin, the same quantity of suet shred 
very fine ; put it in a mortar, and pound as smooth 
as possible. Take a little crumb of bread, wet in 
milk, and add it to the meat in the mortar, and also 
one whole egg and the white of another; season with 



8o ENTRIES. 

pepper and salt; rub it through a fine sieve, and 
with a dessert-spoon shape the quenelles^ and put 
each into a stew-pan, with as much stock or water 
as will cover them. Ten minutes is sufficient to 
cook them. Serve with white sauc?e. 

White Sauce for above. 

Take chicken bones or veal, a bit of ham, a few 
mu5hrooms, two onions, two or three cloves, a blade 
of mace, a little butter, a small sprig of thyme, add 
a little water, and let all stew an hour and a half. 
Mix some of the gravy with flour, put this into the 
pan, and boil a quarter of an hour, stirring it well ; 
strain, season with salt, and add a little cream. Good 
rabbits may be substituted for fowls. Young rabbits 
are preferable to old ones. 

Cushions of Chicken. 

Cut up a raw fowl into small joints; take care 
not to tear the skin ; make a force-meat of the scraps, 
made like quenelle meat ; mix it with a little herbs, 
then put it into the skin, and sew it up with a needle 
and thread. Stew them in a little water with salt ; 
make white sauce, and pour it over when dished. 
They must be served with vegetables, cut with a 
very small cutter. Between each layer put the dif- 
ferent vegetables, carrots, turnips, peas, or beans, and 
balls of yolks of eggs. 

Petite Chard Rabbit 

Make a case of paste in a plain mould of flour 
and water ; line the mould very smoothly with it ; fill 



ENTRIES. 8i 

it up with dry flour, and put into the oven to brown ; 
when done, leave it in the shape till cold, then turn 
it out ; first take out all the dried flour, egg all the 
outside over, make a few leaves of some of the un- 
cooked paste, and ^ornament the shape with them. 
Take a rabbit or two, and cut them into small joints ; 
stew them in good gravy with a little onion, two or 
three cloves, and a little soup glaze, until the gravy 
is quite thick ; when ready, heat the case in the oven, 
and turn it all "into the shape. Dish it on a napkin. 
It makes a very good tentrie or lunch dish, and is 
nice for breakfast 

Dry Curry. 

For veal, imutton, or rabbit, put two ounces of 
butter into a pan with two onions and an apple, both 
minced small, and fried till quite tender ; then add 
nice bits of meat, with a table-spoonful of curry 
powder, a little salt, and a pinch of sugar; add 
a little stock : let it stew slowly by the side of the 
fire until the meat is quite tender. Before it is 
dished, a little chutnee sauce may be added, the 
squeeze of a lemon, and a little cream ; put a wall 
of boiled rice round the dish, with the curry in the 
centre, and serve very hot 



Chicken or Partridge d la St Clair. 

Cut the birds in pieces, and put them in a stew- 
pan with as much stock as will nearly cover them. 
When tender, add a glassful of port wine, a dessert- 
spoonful of catsup, a small onion chopped very fine, 

F 



82 ENTRIES. 

a teaspoonful of anchovy paste, pepper and salt to 
taste, and a teacupful of cream. Serve very hot 



Crime de Volaille, 

Pound the white meat of a fowl into a pulp ; pass 
it through a sieve ; put it back into the mortar, and 
work into it the yolks of three or four eggs and a gill 
of cream ; season with white pepper and salt and 
grated nutmeg, and, if liked, a little shallot When 
the mixture is perfectly smooth and well mixed, 
butter a plain mould ; arrange thin slices of truffles, 
cut in shapes, at the bottom ; then put in the mix- 
ture, which should only half fill the mould ; tie a 
piece of paper on the top ; place the mould in 
a saucepan with boiling water, and steam it for an 
hour and a half. Serve with truffle or tomato sauce. 



Roman Pie. 

Boil a rabbit or any white meat, such as chicken 
or veal ; cut all the meat off in thin slices ; boil 
three ounces macaroni in water till tender ; cut up, 
in small pieces, three ounces Parmesan cheese, the 
least bit of shallot, minced very fine, salt, pepper, 
and a quarter-pint of cream ; mix all well together. 
Butter a plain mould, and sprinkle with vermicelli ; 
make a quarter-pound of short paste ; line the mould 
with this, and then fill with the mixture ; put on the 
paste top, press the outer edge on it ; bake one hour, 
turn it out, and pour clear brown sauce over and 
round it 



ENTRIES. 83 

Game Quenelle, 

Take the remains of cold grouse, or game of any 
sort; pound it in a mortar till very fine; add a 
little good stock, a few bread-crumbs, a little Har- 
vey sauce, pepper and salt ; beat up two eggs and 
add to the mixture. Butter a mould ; pour in the 
mixture ; tie a piece of paper over the top of the 
mould ; set it in a pan with boiling water to steam 
for half an hour. Serve with brown gravy round it. 



Dutch Quenelle, 

Take some force-meat, beat well in a mortar, and 
bind it with two eggs. Take a plain mould and line 
it with slices of fat bacon ; fill up the mould with the 
force-meat, press it down, steam it for an hour and 
a half; when turned out, glaze it all over. Serve 
with brown sauce. 

Force-Meat 

Mince fine half a pound of veal or fowl, previously 
cooked, and four ounces of ham ; add one teacupful 
of grated bread, and moisten with an ^^g. Season 
with a little nutmeg, lemon, and white pepper. 

Curried Chicken, 

Cut up a chicken in joints, and put them into a 
stew-pan, with a piece of butter, a little salt, and 
minced onion ; put a close cover on the pan, and set 
it to stew very slowly. When it has stewed about 
twenty minutes, turn the pieces of chicken in the 



84 ENTRIES. 

pan ; put the Hd on again. See that no steam 
escapes. Chop up the backbone, neck, feet, and 
gizzard ; put them in a pan, cover them with cold 
water, boil them for stock. When the stock has 
boiled down to half its original quantity, strain and 
skim it. Add a small dessert-spoonful of curry- 
powder, half that quantity of curry paste, and a 
dessert-spoonful of fine flour, to the chicken. Let 
all stew together for ten or fifteen minutes. When 
the chicken is thoroughly cooked, and the sauce a 
proper thickness, the latter should resemble thick 
cream. When about to dish the entr^e^ add the 
squeeze of a lemon and a little cream ; take a 
breakfast-cup, wet the inside with cold water, fill it 
with plain boiled rice, press this in the cup, then 
turn it out on the middle of the dish. Dish the 
curry round the rice, or put a wall of rice round the 
dish, and the curry in the centre. Serve very hot. 

Fricassee of Chicken, 

Skin and joint a chicken ; put it into a stew-pan, 
with a pint of stock made of the neck, backbone, 
gizzard, and feet of the chicken. Season with white 
pepper and salt; add a blade of mace, sprig of 
thyme, and a little parsley. Let all boil slowly for 
twenty minutes, then strain it ; take out the bits of 
chicken, skim and add two table-spoonfuls of flour, 
with a little of the stock ; put it into the stew-pan, 
and boil it Add the joints of chicken, with a few 
button mushrooms; beat up the yolk of an egg, 
and mix it with a teacupful of thick, sweet cream ; 
pour it into the pan among the pieces of chicken, 



ENTRlfeES. 85 

and shake till nearly boiling ; add salt to taste. 
Arrange the joints in a pile on the dish ; pour the 
sauce over them ; garnish with cockscombs and 
truffles, cut in stars or diamonds. The whole should 
be served very hot. 

Fillets of Fowl with Asparagus Peas. 

Trim the fillets of fowl, and finish them as in the 
preceding case ; roll them in white mushroom sauce ; 
dish them up with pieces of tongue ; fill the centre 
with asparagus peas ;, pour some of the sauce round 
it Serve hot 

Itnlian Pigeon Stew, 

Take three or four pigeons, skin and clean them ; 
cut out the fillets from the breasts ; cut oflf the legs 
and lay them aside with the fillets ; then cut up the 
backboneSj with the necks and gizzards ; put them 
into a pan with a pound of raw, lean beef; add a 
little pepper and salt, cover with cold water, and 
boil for sauce. When the substance is abstracted 
from the bones, strain the sauce into a small stew- 
pan ; put the legs and fillets of the pigeons into the 
pan with the sauce, stew them until tender; cut 
some macaroni in pieces, boil it in plenty of water, 
drain it on. a sieve ; grate some Parmesan cheese, 
and strew a little on the bottom of the entree dish ; 
then a layer of macaroni, then of cheese, then of 
macaroni, and a little of the sauce. Put the pieces of 
pigeon on the top. The sauce should be reduced to 
half glaze, and poured over the entree. Have two 
eggs hard boiled and skinned ; take out the yolks 



86 ENTRIES. 

without breaking them, cut each in two, and place 
a piece in each corner of the dish ; cut the whites 
in small stars or diamonds, and ornament the dish 
with them, and serve up very hot 

Salmi of Grouse, 

Take the remains of cold roast grouse, trim the 
fillets and legs ; make some salnti sauce of the bones, 
rather thick ; put the pieces of grouse into the sauce, 
season with salt and a little cayenne-pepper, and a 
small glass of port wine. Mushrooms or truffles 
may be added, and the whole served very hot. 

Salmis of all kind of game are prepared alike, the 
trimmings being used for making the sauce. 

Grouse Cutlets^ Glengarry. 

Young birds only are fit for this. They must be 
drawn, the legs cut off, the drumsticks tucked inside, 
singed and split, and cut in halves. They must then 
be seasoned with pepper and salt, and fried in a 
j^w/Z-pan, with a piece of butter, until browned on 
both sides. Shake in a little flour, add a piece of 
glaze and a little chutnee sauce; simmer over the 
fire for ten minutes, and serve very hot. 

Note.— All kinds of young game form a most 
delicious dish when cooked in this way. 

Bonnes-Bouches. 

Take about half a pound of any kind of game, 
grouse, partridge, woodcock, or snipes ; cut up in 



ENTRjfcES. 87 

small pieces, and fry them with an ounce of butter, a 
little ham, chopped truffle, mushrooms, parsley, and 
shallot ; season with nutmeg, pepper, and salt ; and 
when done, pound thoroughly in the mortar, together 
with a spoonful of sauce made from the bones of the 
birds ; rub it through a wire-sieve, and put the game 
ptirie in a small stew-pan ; add the yolks of three 
eggs, and four whites, whisked into a substantial 
froth ; mix lightly, and with this preparation fill 
a dozen or more paper cases ; ^^'g over the tops 
with a paste-brush, dipped in beaten white of egg ; 
put them in a moderately heated oven to bake for 
about twelve minutes ; and as soon as done, dish 
up the bojines ' bouclies on a napkin, and serve 
immediately. 

Vol-aU'Venty d la Financikre, 

Make a pound of puff-paste ready ; roll it out to 
the thickness of two and a half inches, and with an 
oval cutter or round lid placed on the top of the 
paste, with a sharp pointed knife cut all round the 
edge of the lid ; when the vol-au-vent is cut out, egg 
it over, without touching the sides, and with a knife, 
the point held slanting inwardly towards the centre, 
make a circular incision within an inch of the edge, 
and with the point of a knife press the inner dish 
away from the incision to prevent them from closing 
up again. Make a lid with paste to fit into the well 
of the vol-au-vent ; brush the top with beaten ^g%\ 
place the vol-au-vent^Xidi its lid on a baking-sheet; put 
it in the oven (not too hot) to bake for half an hour 
or longer, according to the size. When the vol-au- 



88 ENTRIES. 

vent has risen about two inches, place the hoop of 
an old sieve round it, and a piece of paper over it, 
and allow it to remain in the oven until done ; it then 
must be taken out, and the greasy centre carefully 
taken out without damaging the case: 

Financiire Sauce. 

Put a pint of good stock into a stew-pan, with an 
ounce and a half of thickening. Stir over the fire 
until it boils, and then add a glass- of Madeira or 
sherry, a little mushroom catsup,, and a pinch of 
cayenne. Allow this to remain gently boiling by 
the side of the fire to clarify,, for about a quarter of 
an hour ; skim it, boil it down for five minutes longer, 
and then add a piece of glaze; and when this is 
dissolved, strain the sauce into a small stew-pan. 
Parboil two veat sweetbreads, three or four cocks- 
combs ; cut them and add them to the sauce, with 
a few truffles and mushroonw. Let all be thoroughly 
cooked in the sauce, and seasoned with pepper and 
salt When about to send to. table, make the case 
hot ; place it on its dish, with a folded napkin under 
it Fill the well of the vol-au-vent with Xh&financiere 
sauce. Place the paste-lid on the vol-au-vent^ and 
send to table very hot 

Vol-aU'Vents may be filled with oysters prepared 
as for oyster patties. This is called vol-au-vent of 
oysters. 

Calfs Brains in CaseSy au Gratin. 

Put the brains in cold water, with a little salt to 
extract the blood from them ; parboil them in water 



ENTRIES. 89 

for eight minutes; take them from the water and 
cut them in small pieces ; they must then be added 
to some well-seasoned b^ckamel sauce, with a little 
lean ham or tongue, truffle, and mushrooms, and 
rather highly seasoned with pepper and salt Beat 
up an egg and add to the mixture, and with this 
preparation fill some paper cases ;, strew fried bread- 
crumbs upon the tops ; place them on a baking-sheet, 
and put them in the oven for ten minutes. 

Dish up the cases on a: folded napkin, and serve 
hot 

Calf Feet,. Fried. 

When the feet have been boiled and are cold, cut 
them in pieces, the size of a small cutlet ; dip each 
piece in batter, fry them in hot fat, and, when they 
become crisp, let them be drained on a cloth ; dished 
up on a napkin, with or without fried parsley, and 
some tomato, piquant, or ravigpte sauce, served 
separately. 

Indian Pilau. 

Wash a pound of rice ; parboil it ; then place the 
rice in a stew-pan, with a fowl cut up into joints ; 
moisten with a quart of stock or water. While the 
fowl is stewing, cut four onions in slices, fry them in 
butter to a light fawn colour, and keep them warm 
on a plate ; fry also a dozen slices of bacon. When 
the fowl is done, pile up the rice in the middle of the 
dish, then the joints of fowl ; next strew the fried 
onions over the top. Rub some tomatoes with 
butter, bake them in the oven for five minutes ; cut 



90 ENTRIES. 

them in quarters. Garnish the dish with the toma- 
toes, rolls of fried bacon, and hard-boiled eggs, and 
serve hot 



Croquettes of Macaroni, 

Make a thick salmi sauce, then add three yolks 
of eggs, nutmeg, pepper, a little chopped shallot, a 
pinch of sugar, and the juice of half a lemon. Stir 
this over the fire to set the eggs in the sauce ; then 
add a handful of boiled macaroni, two ounces of 
roast game, one ounce of lean ham, truffles, and 
mushrooms. Mix these with the sauce, and when 
cold and firm, divide the preparation into equal 
small portions. Mould these in the form of eggs. 
Egg, bread-crumb, and fry them in hot lard. Dish 
up with fried parsley. 



Russian Kromeskys. 

Parboil half a pound of fat bacon for twenty min- 
utes, and when quite cold cut it into very thin shav- 
ings, an inch and a half square, and use these to 
envelop as many ordinary cork-shaped croquettes as 
may be required for the occasion ; set them on a 
dish in a cool place until it is time to serve them. 
The kromeskys are then to be separately dipped in 
batter, and fried in hot lard ; and when done crisp, 
are to be drained on a wire-sieve covered with paper, 
dished up with fried parsley, and served immediately. 

Kromeskys are made with all kinds of croquette 
preparations, whether of meat, fish, or shell-fish. 



ENTRIES. 91 

Ringlets, 

Mince a small bit of cooked veal, rabbit, or fowl, 
and a little ham ; season with pepper and salt, a little 
nutmeg, a table-spoonful of bread-crumbs ; moisten 
with a little good stock and an ^gg. Take six small 
tin shapes, butter them well inside ; take a few 
pickled French beans, cut them in small strips ; cut 
also some slices of lean ham, or tongue, the same 
size and all one length ; stick round the tin or cup 
one strip of beans, and one of ham or tongue, alter- 
nately, at a small distance from each other. Fill 
them with the mince ; cover them with a piece of 
paper slightly brushed with dissolved butter, and set 
them in a stew-pan with boiling water two inches 
deep. Let it boil slowly ; take care that the water 
does not boil into the cups ; cover them close : they 
will require half an hour to steam. Have the dish 
they are to be served on very hot. Turn them up- 
side down, and let them stand a little ; draw off the 
shapes, and pour white bechamel sauce round the 
ringlets. 

Rissoles, 

Cut very fine some cold fowl, chicken, or veal ; 
a little ham ; season with the grating of a lemon, 
pepper and salt, and moisten with a little stock. 
Make a paste of the following: Four ounces of 
flour, two ounces of lard, a little salt, and moisten 
with one tgg^ and a little water to make it a proper 
stiffness. Roll it out twice ; cut it with a round tin 
cutter five inches wide ; egg them round the edge 
with a brush. Put a little of the mince in the centre 



92 ENTRIES. 

of the paste; turn over the paste and bring the edges 
together. Press it down to make it stick ; then brush 
them with egg, and strew over them some vermicelli, 
boiled and dried, or dress them with egg and bread- 
crumbs. Have the frying-pan with plenty of boil- 
ing lard ; fry them to a nice light-brown colour. 
Lay them on a sieve before the fire to drain ; 
keep them hot, and when wanted, dish them upon 
a napkin, and garnish, with parsley. 



Croquettes. 

Prepare half a pound of rice; boit in milk instead 
of water ; when it is very soft and thick, let it stand 
till cold. Divide it in six portions ; roll each 
portion and form it like a pear ; dust them all over 
with fine bread-crumbs; brush them over with 
beaten egg. Have boiling lard in a pan ; put them 
in and brown them a very light brown, then place 
them on a sieve before the fire, and cover with a 
piece of paper to keep them hot. Have ready a 
mince of veal or fowl, a small bit of ham ; season 
with nutmeg, pepper and salt, and a table-spoonful 
of bread-crumbs. Take a small stew-pan and melt 
a bit of butter ; put in the mince, stir, and beat it 
with a wooden spoon for ten minutes ; add a little 
lemon pickle. When wanted, cut out with a penknife 
a small bit of the thick ends of the croquettes and 
take all the rice out of their interior. The mince 
being hot, fill them by the end. Brush the inside 
with egg, and stick on the bit cut out. Dish them 
upon a napkin, and garnish with fried parsley. 



ENTRIES. 93 

Rabbit Cutlets. 

Cut out the fillets from the backs of two rabbits ; 
cut each in halves and shape them in the form of 
cutlets ; season with pepper and salt Stick a piece 
of the rib-bone into the end of each cutlet, then egg 
and bread-crumb them ; fry them to a light-brown 
colour ; dish them in a circle and pour sauce round 
them. Put mushrooms, peas, or asparagus-tops in 
the centre, and bits of ham or bacon between tlie 
aitlets. 



POULTRY. 



To Roast a Turkey. 

Have a young fat turkey ; pick, singe, and rub it 
well with a dry cloth. Cut off the head by the 
shoulders, leaving the front skin of the neck long. 
Cut off the points of the toes, and put the legs in 
the fire for a minute, and take the upper skin off ; 
then draw the fowl, taking care not to break the 
gall or the gut. If properly done it will not require 
to be washed. Put a little pepper and salt into the 
inside, and put the vent over the rump. Have a 
stuffing ready and put it in where the crop was 
taken out, sew it up, and put a large skewer through 
thfe wing, the under side of the thigh and the body, 
to the thigh and wing of the other side. Press down 
the legs and put another skewer through them, down 
the side of the vent Have a piece of tape ; put it 
firmly round the turkey, and fasten it on the point 
of each of the skewers, to keep the skin of the bird 
from giving way. Fix a piece of paper over the 
breast of the turkey, roast it for an hour and a half 
Baste it well while it is roasting ; when about done, 
dredge it with flour ; baste it with butter. Dish and 



POULTRY. 95 

garnish with sausages ; pour gravy round it ; and 
serve bread -sauce in a sauce - tureen, or Chipolata 
sauce. For this sauce parboil half a pound of saus- 
ages, and cut each in four or five pieces. Roast and 
peel about a dozen chestnuts, and put them in a pan 
with the sausages and half a pint of brown sauce ; 
add some truffles and mushrooms ; stew the whole 
together till tender. Season with a spoonful of Ma- 
deira wine, and serve. 



Plain Stuffing, 

Mix four ounces of minced beef-suet with a cup- 
ful of bread-crumbs, a little minced ham, parsley, 
pepper and salt, the grating of a lemon-skin, and 
bind with one egg. This stuffing is used for fowls 
and veal. 

Chestnut Stuffing for Braised Turkey, 

Mince four ounces of beef-suet. Mix it with half 
a pound of bread-crumbs, pepper and salt, and the 
squeeze of a lemon. Boil about a dozen chestnuts 
in water until tender ; free them from their husks, 
and pound them in a mortar. Add them to the suet 
and bread-crumbs, beat up two eggs, and mix all 
well together, to be used for stuffing turkeys. 

Boiled Turkey, 

Draw and truss the fowl with the legs drawn in 
under the skin ; fasten them with tape round the 
joints, and tie it round the rump to prevent the 



96 POULTRY. 

legs from starting. Stuff the breast and sew it up. 
Put it in a pot that will just hold it, and cover it with 
cold water ; add carrot, onion, celery, parsley, and 
salt ; boil gently until done tender. Dish ; pour 
good white sauce over it. Serve with boiled ham 
or tongue. 

Braised Turkey. 

Truss the turkey as for boiling.; stuff it with 
chestnut stuffing ; put it in a braising-pan with two 
carrots, one turnip, three onions, one stalk of celery, 
a little parsley, four cloves, a blade of mace, and a 
few pepper-corns ; moisten with sufficient stock or 
water to cover it, and set it to simmer very gently 
over a slow fire, or in the oven, for about two hours, 
taking care to baste it frequently with its own liquor. 
When done, drain it and place it in a baking-dish ; 
add the stock, boil it down, and free it from grease ; 
season with salt, and set in the oven to be glazed 
by basting it often with its own essence ; and as 
soon as it presents a bright glossy aspect, dish it up. 
Thicken the liquor with a little flour ; boil it, and 
pour it over the turkey. 

Boiled Turkey d la Yorkshire. 

Cut the legs off a turkey ; scald, trim, and set 
them aside ; bone the turkey without removing the 
wings ; nearly fill the inside with veal force-meat ; 
thrust a trimmed boiled tongue down the middle of 
the force-meat, close the pouch of the turkey by 
sewing it up securely, and truss the turkey for boil- 
ing, inserting the feet in their natural position ; give 



POULTRY. 97 

it as nearly as possible its original form. The tur- 
key, thus far prepared, must be tied up in a cloth 
and boiled very gently, in order not to burst it It 
will take an hour and a half, to boil, more or less, 
according to the size and age of the bird. When 
the turkey is done, dish it, and pour bkhamel or 
any kind of white sauce over it. 

When carving a turkey i la Yorkshirey the slices 
must be cut from across the breast, so as to give a 
slice composed of equal parts of tongue, turkey, and 
force-meat, adhering together. Turkeys dressed in 
this fashion, and sauced over with cream bechamel 
sauce, decorated with truffles and tongue, and gar- 
nished with aspic jelly, form an elegant dish for ball 
suppers. 

To Boil Fowls, 

. Singe and draw the fowls ; wipe them ; stuff the 
breasts with plain stuffing ; put them into a pan that 
will just hold them ; cover them with cold water ; 
add a little salt and a cupful of new milk ; set the 
pan on the stove or slow fire ; skim the water when 
it boils. If young fowls, three quarters of an hour, 
if old, two hours' boiling will be required. Have a 
boiled tongue ; skin and glaze it ; dish the fowls with 
the tongue in the centre ; pour bechamel or any 
kind of white sauce over them, and serve very hot. 



' To Roast a Fowl. 

• • • 

Have a young tender fowl ; clean and singe it, 
and cut off the toes ; draw and truss it ; stuff the 

G 



98 POULTRY. 

breast with plain stuffing; put a little pepper in 
the inside ; fix a piece of paper on the breast of the 
fowl ; put it before a clear fire to roast for three- 
quarters of an hour ; baste it all the time with drip- 
ping, and before it is dished shake a little flour over 
it, — a spoonful of butter may be melted to froth it 
Dish, and pour a little gravy round it ; serve with 
fried ham or tongue, and bread -sauce in a sauce- 
tureen. 

To Roast Chickefts. 

Pick, singe, and draw the chickens ; cut off the 
points of the toes ; put a little stuffing in the breasts ; 
sew them up ; skewer them as for roast turkey ; put 
them before a clear fire, and baste them well with 
butter while roasting. They will require twenty 
minutes. Dish them, and pour a little rich gravy 
round them ; serve up with bread-sauce in a tureen. 
Turkey pullets are done in the same way. 



Chicken and Tongue d la Macidoine. 

Boil two spring chickens ; and when done, place 
them in a dish with a boiled tongue, trimmed and 
glazed in the centre. Garnish with cauliflower or 
broccoli. Sauce the chickens and vegetables with 
white sauce, and serve. 

Note. — Chickens or fowls served with tongue, 
as above, may also be garnished with macidoiney 
jardinikre^ or any other dressed vegetables. 



POULTRY, 99 

Boiled Capon. 

Truss a capon, and tie it up in a buttered cloth. 
Put it on to boil with carrot, onion, and a small 
stalk of celery ; add stock enough to cover it. Or 
it may be boiled in water with a little salt, and 
when done, dish it up with cauliflower. Pour white 
mushroom, b^chamel^ or any other white sauce over 
it, and serve. 

Capofty Braised, 

Truss, lard, and bitiise a capon as directed for 
braising a turkey ; and when glazed and dished up, 
sauce it over with the liquor it has been braised in. 
The liquor must be freed from grease, and thickened 
with a little flour; add a few mushrooms ; boil and 
pour over the capon. 

Note. — Capons are also roasted the same way as 
fowls, with plain brown gravy poured over them, and 
bread-sauce served in a sauce-tureen. 

To Roast a Goose. 

Singe and draw a goose, leaving the skin long 
enough to turn over the back ; take the upper skins 
off the feet, turn them round upon the back, and cut 
oS the wings at the first joint Mince an onion, 
with blades of sage, some bread-crumbs, pepper and 
salt; mix them all together, and put the stuffing 
into the goose. Put the vent over the rump to keep 
the stuffing from dropping out; pass the skewer 
through the wings and body, and fix a piece of paper 
over the breast It will require one hour and a half 



:ioo POULTRY. 

before a clear fire. Ten minutes before it is dished, 
take off the paper to let the goose brown. When 
dished, pour a little good brown gravy round it; 
serve with apple-sauce in a tureen. 

NOTK — A duck is dressed in the same manner, 
only one hour*s roasting will suffice. 

Braised Goose ct la Jardiniire, 

Truss a goose, and place it in a braising-pan, with 
two carrots, one small turnip, four onions, one head 
of celery, a little parsley, pepper and salt, with just 
enough stock or water to cover the goose ; a blade 
of mace, six cloves, and a few pepper-corns must be 
added, and set to braise slowly for two hours, re- 
membering that the lid of the pan should be covered 
with live embers, and that the goose must be fre- 
quently basted with its own liquor. When the goose 
is done, drain and dish it. Garnish it with spring 
vegetables ; sauce it over with brown sauce, in which 
there has been incorporated the stock from the goose, 
previously freed from grease, and boiled down to 
half glaze. 

N.B, — Everything that is braised niust be done 
thoroughly, and must be seasoned with spices, sweet 
herbs, and vegetables. Braising is a more scientific 
way of stewing. 

Braised Swan. 

Pick, singe, and draw a young, well-fed swan ; 
truss It as you would a goose. Prepare the follow- 
ing stuffing, namely: Chop and parboil, for a few 
minutes only, six large onions ; drain them on a 



POULTRY- loi 

sieve, and put them in £l stew-pan, with four ounces 
of butter, the crumbs of two French rolls previously 
soaked in milk, chopped parsley, nutmeg, pepper 
and salt, two eggs, and twenty chestnuts, boiled, 
skinned, and pounded in a mortar. Mix all together, 
and use it to fill the inside of the swan ; place it in 
a braising - pan, with carrot, turnip, onions, celery, 
mace, cloves, and pepper-corns. Cover it with stock 
or water ; braise it for an hour and a half, or until it 
is done. Strain its liquor ; remove the grease ; and 
having boiled the liquor down to half glaze, add it 
to some tomato sauce or pulp, and pour it over the 
swan when dished up. 

Note. — Swans may be stuffed with bread-crumbs, 
sage, and onions, and roasted before a brisk fire for 
about an hour and a half, and when done, dished up 
with good brown gravy, and served with apple-sauce 
separately. 

Stewed Duck with Green Peas. 

Truss a duck, and braise it in the usual way ; and 
while this is going on, shred a lettuce fine, and put it 
in a stew-pan with a quart of peas, a few green onions 
and parsley, an ounce of butter, pepper and salt, and 
a gill of water. Put the lid on the stew-pan, and set 
the peas to stew very gently over a slow fire for about 
twenty-five minutes, tossing them up occasionally to 
admit of their being done equally. When the peas 
have become soft and are done, should there happen 
to be too much moisture, boil down on the fire until 
reduced ; add a little white sugar and a good pat of 
butter ; mix these in with the peas, and use to gar- 



I02 POULTRY. 

nish the duck. When dished up, sauce over all with 
the stock from the duck, previously boiled down to 
half glaze. 

Pigeons for a Remove, 

Take three or four pigeons ; truss them as you 
would chickens for boiling ; season the inside with 
pepper and salt, herbs and pickles ; rub a little 
butter on their breasts ; dredge them with flour ; 
make thin paste and roll each in it separately. Keep 
them a nice shape, and tie each in a cloth ; boil very 
slowly for an hour and a half. Remove the cloths 
from them ; place them on a dish ; garnish with 
hard-boiled eggs. Pour rich brown gravy over them, 
and serve very hot 

Turkey Stew, 

Take the remains of a roast turkey ; cut it up in 
nice-sized pieces ; boil the bones for stock, skim it, 
and put it into a stew-pan with the pieces of turkey. 
Season slightly with pepper and salt; add thirty 
oysters, a few chillies and button onions, one glass 
of white wine. Stew for an hour, and serve hot 



BEEF. 



Roast Sirloin of Beef. 

A PIECE of beef, in order to have any chance of 
perfection when cooked, should not weigh less than 
fourteen or sixteen pounds. It will take about two 
hours and a half or three hours before a clear fire to 
roast, and must be kept at a distance of eighteen 
inches from the grate. Baste frequently with nice 
fresh dripping, placed in the dripping-pan. When 
the beef is roasted, remove it from the spit, and 
place it upon its dish ; pour some good gravy round 
it; serve separately some scraped horse-radish, or 
some horse-radish sauce, in a separate dish, and a 
piece of Yorkshire pudding in a vegetable dish. 

Note, — ^The dripping-pan should be kept very 
clean ; it should be washed and dried thoroughly 
every time it is used. When a large joint has been 
roasted, and the dripping removed from the pan, 
pour a little water into the dripping-pan ; add a 
little salt, and strain it ; allow it to cool, free it from 
fat, and heat it when required, as gravy for the roast 



I04 BEEF. 

Roast Ribs of Beef . 
A piece of rib beef, intended for roasting, should 

m 

consist of not less than three or four ribs ; the chine- 
bone, and also the upper part of the rib -bones, 
should be removed by sawing them off. The flat 
ends should be fastened neatly under with wooden 
skewers, and equally balanced- on the spit; the 
ribs of beef should then be roasted in much the 
same manner as directed for sirloin of beef. Browned 
potatoes are generally served with roast beef, and 
also Yorkshire pudding. 

How to Make Yorkshire Pudding, 

Take four table-spoonfuls of flour, with a little 
pepper and salt, and mix it with a little cold milk. 
Have two eggs well beaten ; mix them with the 
flour, then mix in half a pint of milk ; stir it all 
well. Have a square tin pan greased ; pour in the 
pudding, and set it in the oven for a few minutes ; 
then place it under beef that is roasting. Send it to 
table cut in square pieces^ and dished on a napkin. 

Boiled Round of Beef 

• 

Procure a round of beef well furnished with rich 
delicate-looking fat. Take out the kernels, and salt 
the round in the usual manner ; rub in and all over 
it four pounds of salt, with half an ounce of salt- 
petre, turning it over in the brine, and rubbing it 
well with the salt every morning for about ten days. 
By this time the round of beef will be ready for 



BEEF. 105 

boiling. Next, after removing the round from the 
brine, fold it into shape by pulling the flap-piece 
close to the buttock. Fasten it well with skewers in 
order to maintain it in proper shape while boiling. 
Bind it neatly and tightly all round with a piece of 
tape ; put it on in a large pot with cold water. It 
must never be allowed to boil fast, as this always 
spoils salt meat When the round has boiled about 
five hours,- take it up and trim it ; stick in four 
silver skewers to keep it in shape ; cut off the first 
slice. Pour round it some of its liquor, coloured 
with a little browning, and garnish with vegetables. 



Boiled Edge-Bone of Beef, 

Salt the edge-bone, and boil it with care as directed 
for round, and garnish it in the same manner. All 
other joints of salt beef are to be treated similarly. 



Spiced Beef 

For fourteen pounds of beef, mix one pound of 
common salt, with half a pound of coarse brown 
sugar, a quarter pound of allspice, and half an ounce 
of saltpetre. Rub the beef well with this mixture. 
Turn it in the liquor every day for a fortnight. 
When about to use the meat, wash in cold water, 
and dry it with a cloth. Place it in a baking-dish 
with beef- suet under and over it, and bake in a 
moderate oven for about four hours, basting it 
frequently. When done, dish it with beef- gravy 
under it, and serve hot. 



lo6 BEEF. 

Pressed Beef. 

Pressed beef may be prepared with either briskets 
or flank of beef. The beef must first undergo cur- 
ing in manner following, namely : To six pounds of 
common salt add one ounce saltpetre, half a pound 
of moist sugar, some bruised bay -leaves, thyme, 
basil, marjoram, half an ounce of cloves, same of mace 
and of pepper-corns, all mixed together aqd pounded 
in a mortar. Rub it well into the piece of beef in- 
tended to be cured. The beef must remain in the 
brine for about twelve days, when it will be ready 
for use. 

When about to cook the beef, let it be rolled into 
and fastened in a cloth. Put it in a pot with cold 
water to boil very gently for about four or five 
hours, according to weight and thickness. When 
the beef is done, let it be put in press between two - 
dishes with heavy weights on the top. When the 
beef is perfectly cold, take it out of the cloth, trim 
and glaze it over, garnish with aspic jelly or merely 
with picked parsley, and serve either for breakfast, 
luncheon, dinner, or supper. 

Beef-Steaks. 

Have the steak cut from the heukbone or ribs; 
have a clear fire and clean gridiron ; let the latter 
become hot, then rub it with a little suet, lay on the 
steak, and with a pair of coUop-tongs keep turning it 
constantly. Have the dish made very hot when the 
steaks are half done ; sprinkle them over with salt, 
take them off and put them into a dish before the 



BEEF. 107 

fire, and cover them with a hot cover. In the course 
of five minutes put them back upon the gridiron, 
turning them for other five minutes. When done, 
dish the steak with the gravy, and serve with horse- 
radish. 

Minced Collops. 

Take whatever quantity of lean beef you want, 
add a little suet, and mince it very fine ; take a piece 
of butter and brown it with a few onions chopped 
up, then put in the minced meat, and keep beating 
it until it becomes brown. Have some gravy ready, 
add it to the minced collops, and let it boil ; then 
draw it aside, and allow it to stew for an hour ; add 
pepper and salt to taste, and a little catsup. Minced 
collops should be very thick, and garnished round 
with toasted bread cut in dice, with poached eggs on 
the top. 

Ox Tongue. 

The tongue should be boiled very slowly for about 
two hours and a half, and when done, plunged in 
cold water, so as the furred coating of skin may be 
removed. The tongue must then be trimmed and 
glazed, and a piece of paper-frill stuck on the root 

How to make Glaze, 

Take a whole hough of beef, an ox-foot, and an 
old fowl or a piece of veal, a little salt and a few pep- 
per-corns, and put them into a pot ; cover with cold 
water, and boil slowly for ten or twelve hours; then 
strain it, and when cold, skim very clean. Put the 



lo8 BEEF. 

stock into a sauce-pan, set it "upon the fire, and let 
it boil slowly without a cover till it is reduced to a 
small quantity. When it is done sufficiently, dip a 
spoon in it, touch it with your thumb and finger, and 
if it cause them to stick together it is ready. Put it 
into jelly-pots. When you are to use it, set the jelly- 
pot in hot water till it becomes liquid. 

, How to Cook Tripe, 

Have the tripe well cleaned and soaked in cold 
water for some time ; cut into pieces, and put into a 
pot with a marrow-bone \ cover with cold water, and 
let it boil slowly for six hours. Skin some whole 
onions, and add to the tripe. Mix some flour with 
new milk, a little salt, and white ground pepper; add 
these, and let all stew together for half an hour 
longer; skim off the fat When dished, place the 
onions on the top of the tripe. 

Fried Tripe. 

For this purpose the tripe should be previously 
boiled, and when cold, each piec6 must be dipped 
separately in some frying batter, and fried crisp in 
some frying fat or lard. When done, dish up with 
fried parsley on a napkin. Serve with tomato sauce 
in a sauce-boat. 

Pickle for Beef, 

Boil four gallons of water with six pounds of bay- 
salt, one pound and a half of sugar, and half an ounce 
of saltpetre ; skim the pickle, and when cold, put in 
the meat. Stir every second day. 



VEAL. 



Roast Fillet of Veal, 

Veal, to be in perfection, should, if possible, be 
procured fresh killed, as it does not improve by be- 
ing kept. Take out the bone from a good fat fillet, 
and with the bat flatten the udder; make a deep 
incision between the udder and the fillet with a knife, 
and fill it with veal stuffingi Sew it up with small 
twine. Wrap the udder tightly round the fillet, and 
secure its shape with skewers and twine. Spit the 
fillet in the usual manner; cover it with buttered 
paper; roast it for about two hours and a half. Just 
before it is done take off the paper, and after shaking 
some flour over it from a dredger, baste the fillet 
with a little fresh butter, and froth it ; then dish it 
up. Pour round it some melted butter, coloured with 
a little browning, and lemon-juice ; and serve some 
boiled bacon with greens, separately. 

» - 

Loin of Veal, Braised. * 

Trim, stuff, and truss a loin of veal. Place it on 
^a bed of sliced . vegetables in a braising-pan. Cover 



no VEAL. 

it with a fitting piece of thick white paper, previously 
rubbed over with butter; moisten with sufficient stock 
or water just to reach the edge of the surface of the 
veal, and set it to braise in the oven, or very gently 
over a slow fire, with live embers on the lid of the 
pan. Take due care to baste it frequently with its 
own liquor during the time it is being braised, in order 
that the meat, by continuously absorbing the stock, 
may be impregnated with the flavour of the vege- 
tables. When the loin of veal has thus stewed or 
braised for about three hours, let it be drained and 
placed on a baking- dish ; and after straining and 
boiling down its own liquor to the consistency of 
half glaze, add it to the meat, and set it in the oven, 
continuously basting it with its glaze, until it presents 
a light, glossy aspect. The loin of veal must then 
be dished up and garnished with cooked tomatoes, 
onions, and carrots, and sauced over with the liquor 
of the veal. 

Roast Loin of VeaL 

Take the best end of a loin of veal, weighing 
about eight pounds, with a fair proportion of the 
skirt on ; trim it square, and place some veal stuff- 
ing in an incision made for that purpose in the flap 
or skirt Wrap the skirt round the kidney fat, and 
secure the loin tightly with skewers and string. 
Envelop the loin well in greased sheets of paper, 
secured with string; spit it, and roast before a 
moderate fire for about two hours. When done, 
dish it up, and pour over it either some clear brown 
gravy, or melted butter coloured with a spoonful of 
mushroom catsup ; and serve separately either ham, 



VEAL. HI 

or tongue, or some bacon, garnished with some 
sort of vegetable. 

Loin of Veal d la Crime. 

Prepare and roast a loin of veal, and, about twenty 
minutes before it is done, put a dish under it, and 
baste it all over continuously with a pint of sweet 
cream ; this, as the veal continues to turn round 
before the fire, will cause it to assume a bright, light- 
brownish crust of a very delicate aspect While 
removing the veal from its spit on to its dish, it 
must be carefully handled so as the crust may not 
be knocked off. Let the brown deposit which has 
fallen from the veal during the time it has been 
basted with cream, be detached from the dish which 
has received it; with some white mushroom -juice 
^r water, add this to white sauce and a little cream, 
and pour it round the veaL 



MUTTON. 



To Roast a Saddle of Mutton. 

Have the saddle neatly cut; take the skin off; 
then fix the skin on the mutton with a wooden 
skewer, and hang it before the fire to roast. It will 
require two hours before a clear fire. Fifteen min- 
utes before you dish it, take off the skin, dredge it 
with flour, baste it with a little melted butter, and 
pour brown gravy under it Send up red-currantr 
jelly in a sauce-tureen. . 

To Roast a Gigot of Mutton. 

Have the mutton cut in the form of a bacon ham ; 
cut about three inches off the point of the shank ; 
spit it, and put it to roast before a clear fire for two 
hours. Before you dish it, melt a little butter, dust 
the roast with flour, baste it with butter, and when 
it froths up, dish it and put a rose of paper upon the 
shank. Pour gravy under it, and send up red-cur- 
rant jelly in a sauce-tureen. When only a small 
quantity of gravy is required, prick the mutton with 
a skewer to let the gravy flow, which is better than 
any other. 



MUTTON. 113 

Boiled Leg of Mutton. 

j Place a trimmed leg of mutton in a pot, add 
enough cold water to cover it, and set it to boil. 
After skimming it well, add a handful of salt, a few 
carrots, turnips, and a couple of parsnips ; and when 
the leg of mutton has boiled two hours and a half it 
will be done. It should then be dished up with a 
cut -paper frill on the shank -bone, garnished with 
mashed turnips mixed with a pat of butter, and a 
little cream, nutmeg, pepper, and salt Mould the 
mashed turnips in the shape of large eggs, with two 
table-spoons, and place them in a circular row round 
the dish, with boiled carrots cut in shapes, and a 
little of the liquor poured over the mutton ; and 
serve caper-sauce separately. 



Braised Leg of Mutton. 

Place the leg of mutton in a braising-pan with 
carrots, onions, turnips, celery, parsley, cloves, mace, 
and a few pepper-corns. Moisten with sufficient 
stock or water to cover the mutton, and set it to 
simmer very gently over a slow fire, or in the oven, 
for about three hours, taking care to baste it fre- 
quently with its own liquor. When done, drain and 
place it in a baking-dish. Add the stock and boil 
it down, and set it in the oven to be glazed by. bast- 
ing it often with its own essence ; and as soon as 
it presents a bright glossy aspect, dish it up, and 
garnish with carrots and turnips. Sauce over with 
the remainder of its glaze added to some brown 
^auce, and serve. 

H • 



114 MUTTON. 

Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton. 

Saw off the shank from a shoulder of mutton ; 
remove the blade -bone with care; fill the cavity 
caused by the removal of the blade-bone with veal 
stuffing. Sew up the opening (gathering up the 
sides of the meat) with a trussing-needle and string. 
Next let the shoulder be nicely roasted or braised. 
Pour over it some piquant sauce, and serve hot 

Mutton Haricot 

Have two pounds of chops, or the lean parts of 
mutton cut into pieces the size of a chop ; add a 
table-spoonful of flour, pepper and salt, onions and 
carrots cut into dice ; pour in nearly a pint of cold 
water ; stir it, and put it on the fire or stove to stew 
slowly for half an hour, then add a turnip cut in 
dice ; let the whole be stewed together for an hour ; 
skim it well. When you dish it, put the mutton 
neatly round the dish, and pour the vegetables and 
sauce into the centre. Serve it up very hot 

Irish Stew, 

Take any thin pieces that have been cut off a lorn 
or breast, and cut them in pieces ; put them in a 
stew-pan and cover them with cold water ; add two 
dozen whole onions, pepper, and salt ; put on the 
cover ; draw the pan to the side of the fire and let it 
boil slowly for half an hour. Wash and pare two 
dozen of potatoes ; place them in the stew-pan on 
the top of the mutton ; sprinkle with pepper and 
salt, and let them stew till quite soft. When cooked, 



MUTTON. us 

dish the potatoes in the centre, and the mutton and 
sauce round them. Serve hot 



Scotch Haggis, 

Clean the bag, and lay it in water with salt for a 
night Parboil the pluck for half an hour, and when 
cold, mince it very fine with one pound of suet, one 
pound of oatmeal ; add two minced onions, one 
table-spoonful of mushroom catsup, and the same of 
Harvey sauce ; season with pepper and salt Put it 
all into a basin ; reduce the liquor that it has been 
boiled in to a pint and a half, and mix it with the 
other ingredients ; turn the bag with the plain side 
out, and fill with the mixture; sew up tightly; put 
it into a pot of cold water, and keep pricking it with 
a sharp skewer for five minutes. Let it boil slowly 
for four or five hours. 

Broiled Kidneys, 

Skin the kidneys, and make a deep incision in 
each; rub them over with fresh butter; put a skewer 
through to keep them open ; broil them on a gridiron 
over a slow fire. Beat up to a cream two ounces of 
fresh butter, with a little lemon-juice, add a little 
chopped parsley; put a teaspoonful of this mixture 
into each kidney, and shut them like a book. 



LAMB. 



Roast Fore-quarter of Lamb, 

Saw off the shank-bone, and also the chine-bone, 
by the fillet part of the neck, and with a saw par- 
tially sever the rib-bones ; cover the fore-quarter with 
buttered paper, and secure it in an even position on 
the spit ; roast it before a brisk fire for about an 
hour and a half, and about ten minutes before taking 
it up, dredge it with flour, and baste it over with a 
little dissolved butter; it must then be dished up 
with a cut-paper frill on the shank-bone ; gravy 
must be poured under it, and mint-sauce served 
separately. 

Boiled Leg of Lamb, 

Boil the leg of lamb in water with a little salt, 
carrot, celery, onion, and turnip ; it will be done in 
about an hour and a quarter; and dish up sur- 
rounded either with dressed spinach, spring carrots 
and turnips, or cauliflowers. A little white sauce 
should be poured over the lamb, and a cut-paper 
frill placed on the shank-bone. 



LAMB. 117 

Saddle of Lamb ^ Braised, 

Remove all the bones from the saddle of lamb, 
without injury to the upper part of the skin ; let it 
be filled in with force-meat, and securely fastened 
by neatly and carefully rolling up the saddle of lamb 
in a napkin spread with butter ; and then, again, by 
tightly securing the ends with tied string. The sad- 
dle, thus prepared, must be braised in white stock, 
with the usual complement of stock vegetables, for 
about an hour and a half. When done, and taken 
out of the braise, it must be left in the napkin, and 
pressed between two dishes, with a h.eavy weight on 
the top dish. The saddle should be allowed to re- 
main in the napkin until it is quite cold. It must 
then be removed from the napkin, slightly trimmed, 
made hot in a little of the stock, without boiling (as 
that might deform it). Then, placed on its dish, the 
sauce must be made free from grease, slightly thick- 
ened with flour, and poured round the lamb, which 
may be garnished with any kind of dressed vege- 
tables. 

Shoulder of Lamb y Grilled, 

When it happens that a cold shoulder, or part of 
a shoulder of lamb, is left from a previous day's 
dinner, take a knife and cut two incisions into the 
bone ; season with pepper and salt ; grill it over a 
clear fire, turning it frequently, for about twenty 
minutes ; and when done, dish it up with piquant 
sauce. 



PORK. 



Roast Leg of Pork. 

Make a deep incision just below the knuckle of a 
leg of pork, between the skin and flesh, and fill this 
with sage and onion stuffing, and sew up the open- 
ing with twine ; score the pork all over by cutting 
the skin through, in narrow bands, with a sharp 
knife ; then spit the joint, and roast it for about two 
hours, basting it frequently; and when done, dish 
it up with brown gravy, and serve apple-sauce in a 
sauce-boat 

Boiled Leg of Pork. 

Saw off the shank-bone, and put the leg on to 
boil in cold water, with carrots, turnips, and parsnips, 
intended to be served with it ; and also a quart of 
split-peas, previously washed and soaked over a night 
for the purpose. Let the peas be tied up loosely in 
a napkin, and put in the pot to boil with the pork, 
which will require two hours' slow boiling. When 
the pork is done, take it up on its dish ; garnish it 
round with the carrots, turnips, and parsnips, cut 



PORK. 119 

into neat squares ; pour some gravy over the pork, 
and serve the peas-pudding on a separate dish. 

If the peas for the pudding are put on to boil at 
the same time as the pork, they will be done in about 
an hour and a half They are then to be taken out 
of the napkin, rubbed through a wire-sieve, mixed 
with a pat of butter, two yolks of eggs, nutmeg, 
pepper and salt, and tied up as any other pudding, 
in a napkin previously well buttered and floured, 
and again put in the pot with the pork, to con- 
tinue boiling until the pork is done. 

To Roast a Loin of Pork. 

Notch every joint in the loin ; cut the skin in 
strips, and rub it over with a bit of butter, and some 
sage -leaves rubbed into a powder. Rub this into 
the pork before putting it to the fire. It will re- 
quire two hours' roasting. Serve with brown gravy, 
and apple-sauce in a sauce-boat. 

To Roast Sucking-Pig. 

Fill the pouch of the sucking-pig with stuffing 
prepared as follows : Chop fine four onions and a 
dozen sage-leaves ; fry these with two ounces of 
butter over a slow fire for five minutes ; then add 
half a pound of bread-crumbs, two yolks of eggs, 
pepper and salt ; and thus, the pig being stuffed and 
the pouch sewed up securely, roast it before a brisk 
fire for about two hours, basting it frequently by 
means of a paste-brush dipped in salad-oil. When 
the pig is done, dish it, and pour gravy round it. 
Serve with Italian, tomato, or apple sauce. 



I20 PORK. 

Spare-Ribs of Pork. 

These should be sh'ghtly sprinkled with pepper 
and salt the day before they are to be cooked. 
They must then be broiled on a gridiron over a 
clear fire, and turned with steak-tongs. 

How to make Brawn, 

Take a good-sized pig's head, and a smoked beef- 
tongue ; put the two in a pot together ; boil them 
till tender. They must not be boiled too much. 
When ready, the tongue must be skinned, and the 
head taken up and the meat taken quickly off the 
bones. The meat of the head and the tongue should 
be roughly and quickly minced together, and sea- 
soned rather highly with pepper and salt, and a little 
mixed spice. It must then be put into the brawn- 
dish or mould while it is still very hot ; then place 
the lid on the dish, and a very heavy weight on the 
top of it. When the brawn is perfectly cold and 
firm, take a kitchen-towel, put it into boiling water, 
take it out and wring it hard ; wrap it round the 
dish, and dab the top and bottom of the dish with 
the cloth. Take off the top, and turn it on its dish, 
and garnish with parsley. It should be very firm, 
and resemble Stilton cheese. 

Pork Sausages. 

Take two or three pounds of fresh pork, fat and 
lean together, without skin or gristle ; chop it as 
fine as possible ; season with a teaspoonful of ground 



PORK. 121 

pepper, two of salt, one of allspice, and three of sage 
shred fine ; mix the whole well together. In the 
meantime have the sausage-skins nicely cleaned, 
and fill them with the mince; parboil them in 
water, and broil on a gridiron. Beef likewise niakes 
good sausages. 

To Cure Hams as in Ireland. 

To each ham put one pourfd of coarse brown 
sugar, one and a half of salt, two ounces of black 
ground pepper, two ounces of allspice, and half an 
ounce of saltpetre ; mix all well together and rub 
the hams well with it Turn and rub them daily 
with their own pickle for six weeks, and hang them 
up to dry. They are much improved by being 
smoked. 



VENISON. 



Roast Haunch of Venison. 

Saw oflf the shank-bone ; remove the sinew ; pare 
away the dark, dry skin from the skirt, and also the 
dried surface of the under part. Then cover the 
haunch with a large sheet of well-greased paper, 
and over that place a covering of flour-and-water 
paste, about half an inch in thickness ; envelop the 
whole with two large sheets of greased paper, se- 
curely tied on with string. Place the venison in a 
cradle-spit, and set it down before the fire to roast 
for about four hours, more or less — the exact time 
depending upon the size and weight of the haunch. 
When about to take it up from the fire, the paste 
and paper should be removed ; then place the 
haunch on a very hot dish ; pour hot brown gravy 
round it; cover it quickly with a hot cover, and send 
to table exceedingly hot Serve red-currant jelly 
and French beans separately. 

The following sauce is appropriate for roast veni- 
son : To one pound of currant jelly add a gill of 
port wine, the rind of a lemon, and a small piece of 



VENISON, 123 

cinnamon ; stir over the fire, but do not boil it 
Serve in a sauce-boat. 

Venison Chops. 

The chops should be cut an inch thick, neither 
beaten nor trimmed of their fat, seasoned with 
pepper and salt, and placed in a frying-pan with a 
piece of butter. Keep turning them over every two 
minutes ; twenty minutes will suffice to cook them. 
Dish them on a very hot dish, with a small pat of 
fresh butter under each chop. Stew a few mush- 
rooms in a little brown gravy, add pepper and salt, 
and pour round the chops. 

Cutlets of Venison* 

Trim the cutlets as you would mutton or lamb 
cutlets ; season them with pepper and salt. Melt a 
little butter on a plate ; dip each cutlet in the butter, 
and dust them slightly with flour, then in beaten 
^ZZf ^^^ ^oll them in bread-crumbs. Fry them in 
hot lard for ten minutes ; take them out of the lard 
and lay them on a flat dish covered with paper. 
Put them before the fire for a few minutes to free 
them from grease. Dish them up, and y^out financiere 
sauce round'the cutlets. 

Haricot of Venison, 

Take a neck or shoulder of venison, or both, and 
cut the meat of the shoulder in pieces about two 
inches square, and the neck in thick cutlets. Fry 
these pieces with two ounces of butter in a stew-pan 



124 VENISON. 

over a brisk fire until they are browned ; then pour 
off all grease, shake in a little ilour, and stir together. 
Moisten with sufficient stock, or water, to cover the 
meat ; season with pepper and salt, and stir it over 
the fire until it boils. Remove it to the corner of 
the stove to allow it to throw up the scum, which 
remove with a spoon. Wash and scrape three 
carrots, and with a vegetable scoop cut out all the 
pink of the carrots in round balls, and boil them in 
water for half an hour. Cut out some balls of turnip 
in the same manner, and boil for fifteen minutes. 
Strain the vegetables and add them to the stew, 
with a glass of port wine and two ounces of red- 
currant jelly. When the meat and vegetables are 
thoroughly cooked and the stew well skimmed, dish 
it up very hot The dish and cover should also be 
made hot. 

Heart of Red Deer, Roasted, 

Soak the heart in cold water for several hours, 
wash away the blood, and dry it with a cloth. Stuff 
the heart with veal stuffing ; sew it up, rub it over 
with butter, and cover it with flour-and-water paste» 
Wrap it in paper, tied on with string ; spit it, and 
put it before a clear fire to roast for two hours ; 
baste it with fat all the time it is roasting. Remove 
the paper and paste about fifteen minutes before it 
is done ; dredge it with flour ; melt some butter on 
a dish, and with a spoon baste the heart well with 
the butter. When it is nicely browned and thor- 
oughly cooked, place it on its dish, previously well 
heated. Pour venison sauce over the heart, and 
serve red-currant jelly and French beans separately. 



VENISON. 125 

Venison Liver^ Fried. 

Take a red deer's liver ; wash it in cold water; cut 
it in long slices about an inch thick ; shape them in 
the form of veal cutlets ; season them with pepper 
and salt, and dust them over with flour. Put a 
piece of butter in a frying-pan, make it hot, then lay 
the pieces of liver in the pan ; fry them a nice 
brown colour on both sides — they will take ten or 
fifteen minutes to fry. When done, dish them up 
with a piece of fried ham or bacon between each 
piece of liver ; add the gravy in the frying-pan to 
a little venison sauce, and pour it over the liver and 
serve hot 

Venison Puddings. 

Take three-quarters of a pound of venison suet 
and mince it very fine ; add half a pound of oat- 
meal, pepper and salt, and mix well together. Put 
a little of this mixture in a small stew-pan, and stir 
it over the fire for a few minutes to ascertain that 
it is well seasoned. If it is not, add a little more 
pepper and salt to the suet and oatmeal. Have 
some sausage-skins well cleansed, and fill them with 
the mixture ; have a pot of boiling water on the fire; 
put in the puddings, and prick them with a skewer 
to prevent them from bursting. Boil them for an 
hour; take them out and dish them upon a folded 
napkin. Serve hot with oatmeal cakes and cheese. 



PIES. 



Venison Pasty, 

Cut a neck or breast into small steaks ; rub them 
over with a seasoning of parsley, shallot, and a sprig 
of thyme minced very fine;. add grated nutmeg, 
pepper, and salt ; roll the pieces of venison separately 
in the herbs, and fry them slightly in butter. Line the 
sides and edges of a pie-dish with puff-paste ; place 
the pieces of venison in the pie-dish ; add about half 
a pint of rich gravy made from the trimmings of the 
venison, half a glass of port wine, and the juice of 
half a lemon. Cover the dish with puff-paste, and 
bake it nearly two hours in a moderate oven ] when 
nearly done, open it a little at the top or side and 
pour in some more gravy into the pie before serv- 
ing it up. 

Beef 'Steak Pie. 

Cut up about two or three pounds of beef-steak 
into collops ; trim away any unnecessary fat and 
sinew without waste ; season with pepper and salt 
Place them in layers in a pie-dish; mince a little 
parsley and shallot together, and sprinkle it over 



PIES. 127 

each layer ; fill the pie and shake a little flour over 
the meat; moisten it with stock or cold water ; a few 
oysters may be added if liked. Cover with puflf-paste, 
and bake in a moderate oven from an hour to an 
hour and a half. 

Veal and Ham Pie, 

Cut up a pound and a half of veal into collops 
twice the size of a crown-piece, and also a pound of 
ham ; chop a few mushrooms, some parsley, and 
shallot, and fry these with an ounce of butter in a 
small stew-pan ; season with pepper and salt, a little 
Harvey sauce, a table-spoonful of flour, and half a 
pint of gravy or water ; stir this sauce over the fire 
until it boils ; add the juice of half a lemon ; let it cool 
a little, and mix with the veal and ham. Place hard- 
boiled yolks of eggs on the top, cover with puff-paste, 
and bake for an hour and a quarter ; pour in a little 
gravy and sauce. 

Sheep-head Pie. 

Singe and clean a sheep's head and feet ; lay them 
in cold water for one night ; wash and cover them 
with cold water; boil for three hours and a half; take 
them up and allow them to cool, and reduce the 
liquor ; strain and allow it to cool also ; skim off the 
fat, cut off the meat from the bones of the head and 
feet, and pare off the fat and dark skin without waste. 
Lay a few pieces of thin-cut beef-steak at the bottom 
of a pie-dish ; season with pepper and salt ; cut the 
meat in nice square pieces, and pack them in the 
pie-dish, with a few slices of ham and two dozen of 
raw oysters; fill the dish, shake in a little flour, 



128 PIES. 

moisten well with the liquor, cover with pufT-paste, 
and bake for an hour and a half. This pie is best 
cold. 

Pigeon Pie, 

Lay a few pieces of tender beef-steak at the bottom 
of a pie-dish ; upon this place the halves of four 
pigeons and a little ham ; season with chopped 
mushrooms, parsley, shallot, pepper and salt; moisten 
well with gravy or water, and a table-spoonful of cat- 
sup ; add the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs. Cover 
with puff-paste, and bake the pie in a moderate oven 
for an hour and a quarter. 

Grouse Pie. 

Pluck and draw two or three young grouse ; cut 
off the wings and legs ; tuck the • drumsticks in 
through a slit made under the thigh ; singe the birds 
with white paper ; split them in halves ; season them 
with pepper and salt Place some pieces of very 
tender beef-steak at the bottom of a pie-dish ; add 
chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shallot, and two 
teaspoonfuls of chutnee sauce. Sprinkle a little of 
this over the pieces of steak. Place the halves of 
grouse in neat order on the top ; add a little more 
seasoning ; moisten with sufficient gravy made from 
the necks, legs, and wings of the birds. Cover with 
puff-paste, and bake for about an hour and a half. 

Lark Pie, 

Cut about one pound of veal into small collops, 
with half a pound of ham ; fry both together slightly» 



PIES. 129 

and place them at the bottom of a pie-dish. Then 
pluck, draw, and singe two dozen larks. Chop up 
some parsley, shallot, truffle, and mushrooms ; put 
two ounces of butter in a frying-pan, and fry the 
larks and herbs together for five minutes, and place 
them in the pie-dish with the steak ; shake in a little 
flour; moisten with gravy or water; cover with 
puff-paste. Bake for an hour and a quarter, and 
serve 

Blackbird Pie. 

These birds are only fit for the table during the 
months of November, December, and January. The 
birds must be stuffed with the following preparation 
— namely : Soak the crumbs of a French roll in a 
little milk ; put them in a stew-pan with two ounces 
of fresh butter, chopped parsley and shallot, nutmeg, 
pepper and salt, and two yolks of raw eggs. Stir 
this over the fire until it becomes a stiff paste, and 
use it to fill the insides of the birds intended for the 
pie. Then line the bottom of a pie-dish with fried 
collops of beef, and place thereon the birds in neat 
order. Add hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and gravy 
over all ; cover with puff-paste. Bake the pie for an 
hour and a quarter, and serve. 

Giblet Pie. 

Cleanse two sets of goose giblets ; parboil them 
in water with salt for six minutes ; then drain them 
on a sieve, and place them in a stew-pan, with 
caiTot, onion, celery, thyme, parsley, pepper and 
salt ; moisten with stock or water ; stew the giblets 

I 



I30 PIES. 

for one hour, then drain them on a sieve ; cut them 
in pieces about two or three inches in length. Place 
a few slices of beef in the bottom of a pie-dish, then 
pack in the giblets with hard-boiled eggs ; sprinkle 
over with flour. Strain and skim the gravy ; add it 
to the pie ; cover with puff-paste, and bake for an 
hour and a quarter. 

Hare Pie. 

Cut the hare in joints ; take the head, ribs, and 
thin pieces of the hare, and chop them a little ; put 
them into a pan and cover them with cold water ; 
add carrot, onions, celery, parsley, and a sprig of 
thyme. Boil this down for stock, and wheti reduced, 
strain it Wash the pieces of hare in cold water ; dry 
them, and season rather high with pepper and salt. 
Lay a few pieces of ham in the bottom of a pie- 
dish, with the pieces of hare neatly packed. Pour 
in the stock that was strained ; add a glass of port 
wine ; cover with a thick paste, and bake two hours 
in the oven. 

Rabbit Pie, 

Wash the rabbits, and cut them up in joints. Put 
a piece of butter into a stew-pan ; add the joints, 
and brown them slightly on both sides, and place 
them in a pie-dish, with a few slices of ham or bacon. 
Put the head, shoulders, and thin pieces into a pan, 
with a piece of celery, carrot, and onion. Boil all 
the substance out of the bones, and strain the stock. 
Sprinkle a littlfe chopped parsley and flour over 
the rabbits; season them with pepper and salt, 
and moisten well with the stock; add a table- 



PIES. 131 



spoonful of catsup and one of vinegar. Cover the 
pie with paste, and bake for two hours. 



Beef -steak Pudding. 

Line the pudding - basin with suet-paste; mix 
three-quarters of a pound of flour with a quarter 
of a pound of suet minced very fine, and sprinlcle 
with a little salt Beat up one egg, and pour it 
into the middle of the flour and suet ; pour in a 
little water, and mix the whole together into a stiff" 
dough. Roll it out as with puff'-paste; fold it up 
and roll it out a second time, to the thickness of half 
an inch. Cut the steak in pieces, and season them 
well with pepper and salt. Cover the bottom of 
the basin with pieces of steak ; sprinkle them over 
with minced parsley and shallot ; place a few but- 
ton mushrooms and raw oysters on the top ; then 
another layer of beef-steak ; then of parsley, shal- 
lot, and oysters ; and so on till the basin is filled up 
to the rim. Wet the edge of the basin with water ; 
cover the top of the basin with paste. Butter a 
pudding- cloth slightly, and dredge it with flour; 
tie it over the top of the basin, and steam for two 
hours and a half. Turn it out of the basin with 
care, and serve it hot. 

Mutton Pudding, 

CoUops or cutlets of mutton are used for this pur- 
pose. They must be fried in a saut/-p3in with an 
ounce of butter, seasoned with chopped mushrooms, 
parsley and shallot, pepper and salt; and, when 



132 PIES. 

browned on both sides without being done through, 
must be sprinkled over with flour, moistened with 
half a pint of gravy ; and after being allowed to 
simmer over the fire for five minutes, are to be 
placed in neat order in the pudding- dish, already 
lined with suet-paste and some thick slices of pota- 
toes, which have been scarcely half done and put 
in between the collops of mutton. Pour the sauce 
over all ; cover in with suet-paste ; steam or boil for 
two hours and a half, and serve. 



Kidney Pudding. 

Take about a pound and a half of sheep or lamb 
kidneys ; cut into thin slices and put them into a 
basin ; sprinkle them over with pepper and salt 
Mince up three onions, a few mushrooms, and a 
little parsley ; add to the kidneys ; and having 
lined a pudding-basin with suet-paste, fill it with the 
prepared kidneys. Cover it, and steam for an hour 
and a half, and serve. 

Small Mutton Pies. 

Mince a quarter of a pound of suet very fine, and 
dissolve it in a stew-pan ; when it boils, pour in half 
a pint of sweet milk ; let it come to the boil again ; 
then pour it through a hair-sieve into one pound of 
flour and a little salt, and work into a smooth dough. 
Divide into six parts, and work each up into a round 
shape to the height of three inches, which must be 
the size of the shape. Form the pie inside by pres- 
sing in a baking roller, a little smaller than the 



riEs. 133 

shape. Next cut up some lean mutton in small 
pieces ; put them into a saut/-p2in with a small piece 
of butter, a little chopped parsley, and a few mush- 
rooms ; add pepper and salt, and a little gravy. Fill 
the pies with this preparation ; cut out thin covers 
with the shape in which the pies were formed, and 
stick them on with a beaten egg ; brush them over 
with the same, and bake in a quick oven. During 
the process keep the dough hot to prevent its getting 
hard while the pies are being formed. Pork pies 
are made in the same manner, only in seasoning 
add a little sage instead of mushrooms and parsley. 
Serve very hot 

Shepherd's Pie. 

Take cold roast beef, mutton, or veal ; cut it into 
ordinary-sized slices, and season it with pepper and 
salt Cut some onions in slices and fry them in 
butter, with chopped parsley, and mix with the 
pieces of meat Put the whole into a pic-dish. 
Take fresh bones, and any trimmings of fresh meat 
that can be had ; put them in a pan with carrot, 
turnip, celery, and a sprig of thyme, and cover with 
cold water. Boil until the substance is out of the 
bones ; strain and skim the stock ; pour it over 
the meat. Have some potatoes boiled and nicely 
beaten ; add an egg well beaten, and a little milk ; 
season with pepper and salt ; beat them up with 
a fork ; cover the dish with the potatoes ; smooth 
it all over with a knife ; pinch it round the edge, 
and mark it on the top the same as paste. Bake 
it in an oven until the meat is very hot, and the 
potatoes a nice brown colour. 



134 PIES. 

Cod-sound Pie. 

Soak ten cod -sounds in cold water for twenty- 
four hours; then wash them and put them on a 
cloth to dry. Put two ounces of butter in a pan, 
with four ounces of minced onion, and fry slightly ; 
add a table-spoonful of flour and half a pint of boil- 
ing water. When smooth, add the cod-sounds, sea- 
son with pepper and salt, a tea-spoonful of essence 
of anchovy, the juice of half a lemon, and a spoon- 
ful of Madeira wine. Stir the whole together, and 
put into a pie-dish ; cover with paste, and bake for 
about an hour. 



VEGETABLES. 



To Boil Cardoon, 

Cut away the coarse outside of the cardoon, wash 
it free from sand, lay it in cold water to harden ; 
then boil it in milk and water until tender ; drain 
it on the back of a sieve ; cut each stalk in two ; 
place them in a vegetable -dish, and pour white 
sauce over them, and serve. 

To Cook Tomatoes, 

Take some whole tomatoes ; leave about an inch 
of the stalk to each. Take a flat-bottomed basin, 
rub it slightly with butter ; place the tomatoes in 
the basin ; put a pan with boiling water on the stove 
or fire ; place the basin in the pan ; let the water 
reach up to the middle of the basin. Cover the pan 
close, and let the tomatoes steam until quite soft 
Ten minutes will do them. Dish them upon a 
napkin, and send them up hot. 

To Boil Globe Artichokes, 

Cut the stalks of the artichokes, and with a pair 
of scissors cut the thorns off the points of the leaves ; 



136 VEGETABLES. 

lay them in cold water for several hours. When 
wanted, put them in a pan of boiling water with salt 
and a small piece of soda about the size of a pearl 
button ; boil for about an hour. When the leaves 
are soft at their attachment, they are done. Drain 
them upon a sieve, and dish them on a napkin ; serve 
with game. Send butter-sauce in a sauce-boat 



Salsify, 

Scrape off the outside part until the vegetables 
become white, and put them in a dish with cold 
water with a little vinegar; then boil them with 
milk and water. When done, drain them on a sieve ; 
place them in a vegetable-dish; pour white sauce 
over them, and serve. 

White Beam, 

White beans, when new and fresh, must be put 
into boiling water ; if old and dry, they should soak 
for an hour in coW water before boiling them ; boil 
them very tender. Put into a stew-pan a piece of 
fresh butter, a little finely minced parsley, some 
pepper and salt, and then the beans, previously 
well drained. Keep shaking the stew-pan, but do 
not touch the beans, for fear of breaking them. 
Serve very hot 

Cauliflowers. 

If the cauliflowers are very large, cut them into 
quarters ; if small, keep them whole. Put them in 
boiling water with a little salt ; boil them for half 



VEGETABLES. I37 

an hour, less or more, until they are tender ; drain 
them on a sieve without breaking them ; place them 
on their dish, and pour white sauce over them, and 
serve. 

To Dress Jerusalem Artichokes. 

Wash and pare the artichokes in the form of pears 
— let them be all the same size (the small ones can 
be used for soup) ; boil the artichokes in water and 
milk for half an hour ; drain them ; place them in 
their dish ; pour white sauce over them, and serve. 



American Yams. 

Wash and dry the yams; bake them for two 
hours in a slow oven, or until they are soft to the 
touch ; then cut them into slices about an inch 
thick, and with a round tin cutter about the size 
of a crown-piece, cut up the yams without waste ; 
season them slightly with white pepper and salt ; 
place them in a vegetable -dish; pour over them 
some clear tarragon, Dutch, or plain white sauce, 
and serve. 



Vegetable Marrow, 

Pare a vegetable marrow and divide it into six 
or eight parts ; put it into a pan with hot water, 
with a little salt and vinegar, and boil it for half an 
hour. Drain it on a sieve, dish it, and pour white 
sauce over it 



138 VEGETABLES. 

To Boil Young Turnips, 

Peel them a nice round shape ; boil them in water 
with a little salt ; dish them, and pour butter-sauce 
over them. They may be boiled in milk, and served 
writh white sauce. 

Young Carrots. 

Wash and scrape a bunch of spring carrots ; par- 
boil them in water for a few minutes ; drain them 
and put them into a stew-pan ; cover them with 
white stock ; stew them for half an hour. When 
done, place them in a vegetable-dish, and thicken 
the sauce with a little flour ; season with pepper 
and salt ; pour it over the carrots, and serve. 

To Boil Sea-Kale, 

Trim the sea-kale, and tie it into bundles with 
the roots all one way ; put it into boiling water and 
milk, with salt ; boil it for half an hour. When done, 
drain it upon a sieve ; put a slice of toasted bread 
into the dish ; place the kale upon the toast ; pour 
white sauce over it, or plain butter-sauce. 

OnioftSy with White Sauce, 

Skin as many large onions as you require ; par- 
boil them in water for ten minutes ; then place 
them in a stew-pan ; cover them with white stock 
or milk ; stew them for an hour until they are quite 
tender. Mix a little flour with milk ; pour it into 
the pan, and boil for a little ; season with salt and 



VEGETABLES. 139 

white pepper. Dish the onions, and pour the sauce 
over them. 

Celery y with Brown Sauce. 

Take five or six heads of celery with the roots — 
these being the best part of it ; break off the coarse 
outside stalks ; lay them in cold water for some 
hours ; parboil them in water for ten minutes ; 
drain, and place them in a stew-pan, with as much 
stock as cover them ; add a small piece of glaze, 
pepper and salt, and a very little flour. Let all stew 
gently for about an hour. When done, dish up the 
celery ; strain the sauce and pour it over the celery. 
Large onions may be stewed in the same manner, 
by using brown gravy instead of white. 

Portugal Oniofiy Braised, 

Butter a stew-pan large enough to hold the onions 
to be braised ; put a piece of butter on the top, and 
a pinch of sugar. Bake in a slow oven for six or 
seven hours, basting it occasionally. 

To Boil Cabbages, 

Lay the cabbages in cold water with salt; put 
them in a pan of boiling water with salt ; boil them 
sharply for half an hour; drain them, and sauce 
them over with plain butter-sauce. 

To Dress Beetroot. 

Wash the earth off the beetroot without breaking 
the skin ; boil it for two hours or more, according 



I40 VEGETABLES. 

to the size of the beetroot When cold, skin it and 
cut it in thin slices. Beat the yolk of an egg with 
a spoonful of vinegar, half a teaspoonful of made 
mustard, and a wine-glassful of cream ; pour over 
the beetroot Or a little vinegar may be poured 
over it 

To Boil Spinach, 

Get a good-sized basketful of spinach and pluck 
off the stalks from the leaves, which throw in cold 
water ; wash them in several waters. Put them into 
a pan with boiling water, and boil for twenty min- 
utes ; then turn them into a sieve to drain, and place 
them into a clean cloth and wring all the water out 
of them ; rub through a wire-sieve. Melt a piece of 
butter in a stew-pan with the spinach, and make 
very hot; then add half a teacupful of cream, 
pepper and salt, and a pinch of sugar; stir well 
together, and dish it up very hot 

To Boil Asparagus, 

Wash the asparagus in cold water, and scrape the 
bottom parts a little ; tie them up in bundles ; let 
them lie in cold water. When wanted, put them in 
a pan of boiling water to boil for ten or fifteen 
minutes ; drain them on the back of a sieve, and 
dish them on toasted bread. Pour a little well- 
made butter-sauce over them, and serve. 

To Boil Green Peas. 

Put the peas in a flat pan with boiling water, a 
small stalk of mint, a little salt, and a pinch of 



VEGETABLES. 141 

sugar. If very young, ten or fifteen minutes will 
do them ; if old, they will require half an hour. 
Drain and dish them ; mix a little butter with the 
peas. 

Preserved Artichokes. 

Put globe artichokes into a pot with boiling water, 
and boil them till the leaves come off; then dra^in 
them and pick off all the leaves ; take the choke 
away from the bottom ; trim them neatly and lay 
them on sieves to dry ; put them in the screen to 
become hard. When they are to be used, heat them 
in gravy. 



GAME. 



To Roast a Pheasant 

Pluck and singe the bird with white h'ghted paper ; 
cut a slit in the back part of the neck and remove 
the crop ; leave the head attached to the bird ; 
draw, and wipe the inside with a cloth; turn the 
head under the wing ; run a trussing - needle and 
string through the wing and under part of the thigh 
through the body to the thigh and wing on the 
other side ; press the feet close to the body, and 
tie the string tightly ; next pass the needle with 
string through the hollow of the back, just below 
the thighs ; thrust it again through the legs and 
body, and tie the strings tightly. Spit and roast the 
pheasapt before a clear brisk fire for three-quarters 
of an hour, basting it frequently. Serve with brown 
gravy and bread-sauce in sauce-boats, also brown 
bread-crumbs and potato-ribbons. 

Potato-Ribbons. 

Peel the potatoes round and smooth with a sharp 
knife ; cut very thin shavings, about seven or more 



GAME. 143 

inches in length, and one and a half in width ; put 
them in cold water as thus prepared ; lay them on 
a dry cloth ; gather it up, and shake it to dry the 
ribbons without breaking them. Put them in a deep 
stew-pan with boiling lard, and fry them for five 
minutes. Have them quite crisp, and of a pale- 
brown colour. Drain them on paper, and sprinkle 
them with a little salt, and dish them on a napkin. 



To Roast Grouse and Black Game. 

Both these birds should be trussed in the same 
manner as pheasants, and roasted before a brisk fire 
for half an hour and five minutes. Before taking 
them up they should be frothed with flour and butter. 
Dish them with toast under them, and a little brown 
gravy poured on the dish. Serve fried bread-crumbs 
and bread-sauce in separate sauce-boats. 



To Roast Guinea-Fowl, 

These should be trussed in the same manner as 
pheasants, and covered with a layer of fat bacon, 
and roasted before a brisk f}re for about twenty 
minutes. With their breasts slightly glazed, dish 
them up with gravy under them. Garnish with 
water-cresses. Serve bread-sauce separately. 

Woodcock and Snipe. 

These birds must not be drawn, neither do they 
require much trussing. Take the bone out of the 



144 GAME. 

neck, leaving the skin and head attached to the 
body; twist the skin of the neck round the wing, 
and put the bill through the wing and body instead 
of a skewer. Cover the birds with thin slices of 
raw bacon, tied on with string. Spit them, and 
roast them before a clear fire for about half an hour, 
frequently basting them with butter. Place some 
toasted bread under the birds while they are roast- 
ing, to receive the droppings from the trail ; and 
when they are done, dish them up with a piece of 
toast under each bird. Serve plain butter -sauce 
separately in a sauce-boat. 

Roast Larks. 

Cut off the heads and legs, and draw them ; sea- 
son their insides with chopped parsley, pepper and 
salt, and the grating of a nutmeg. Rub the larks 
over with beaten yolks of eggs ; bread-crumb them, 
and moisten them with clarified butter. Roll them 
in bread-crumbs a second time ; put them on a lark- 
spit, and tie it on a common spit, and roast for a 
quarter of an hour. Dish them, and serve with fried 
bread-crumbs, and brown sauce seasoned with cay- 
enne-pepper and lemon-juice. 

Pea-Hens. 

These birds must be trussed in the same way as 
pheasants, and must be closely larded all over the 
breast, and roasted before a moderate fire for an 
hour and a Half, frequently basting it with butter ; 
and when done, the larding must be glazed slightly. 



GAME. 145 

and the birds dished up with rich brown gravy, and 
garnished with water-cresses, and bread-sauce served 
in a sauce-boat 

Green Goose, 

Pluck the goose, and with a penknife pick off all 
the stubble feathers ; dip the legs in boiling water, 
and rub off the skin with a cloth ; cut off the head 
and neck, leaving the skin long enough to turn over 
the back, and twist the legs round so as to let the 
web of the feet rest flat upon the thighs. Run a 
trussing- needle with string through the wing and 
thigh of the right side through the body of the bird 
to the thigh and wing on the left, and tie it tightly 
at the back of the goose. Place it on a spit, and 
roast it before a brisk fire for an hour, basting it 
frequently. Froth it with flour and butter, and when 
done, dish it up. Pour brown gravy round it; garnish 
the dish with water-cresses, and serve. 

Wild Duck 

These must be trussed in the same manner as 
young geese, and roasted before a clear fire for 
twenty minutes, and served with brown gravy, sea- 
soned with port wine and cayenne-pepper. 

Roast Partridges. 

Pluck, singe, and draw the partridges ; cut away 
the head and neck and the points of the toes ; truss 
them in the same manner as grouse or black-game. 
Put them on a spit and roast them before a clear 

K 



146 GAME. 

fire for twenty minutes ; place toasted bread under 
them while they are roasting. When done, cut the 
toast in four parts, and cut off the crusts ; dish the 
birds upon the toast ; put brown gravy under them, 
and serve bread -sauce and brown bread-crumbs 
separately in sauce-boats. 

How to Roast Quails. 

Pluck, draw, and truss these birds as for pheasants ; 
cut some thin slices of fat bacon, large enough to 
cover the quails ; spread a vine-leaf over each of the 
quails, and tie it on with string ; run an iron skewer 
through the birds ; fasten it on to a spit ; roast them 
before a clear fire for twenty minutes ; remove them 
from the spit ; remove the vine-leaves, and glaze the 
bacon slightly; place them on their dish, and garnish 
round with water-cresses. Pour some gravy under 
the birds, and serve. 

Roast Pigeons. 

Clean and truss the pigeons ; cover them with fat 
bacon and vine-leaves ; secure them with string, and 
roast them twenty minutes ; remove the leaves and 
bacon, and glaze them slightly. Serve with gravy 
and brown bread-crumbs in a sauce-boat. 



Roast Hare. 

Skin and draw the hare, leaving the ears attached 
dip them in boiling water, and scrape off the hairs ; 
pick out the eyes ; cut off the feet just above the 



GAME. 147 

first joint ; wash the hare in cold water, and dry- 
it with a cloth, and cut the sinews at the back of 
the hind-quarters and below the fore-legs. Prepare 
some hare-stuffing, and fill the inside with it ; then 
draw the legs under, as if the hare were in a sitting 
position ; set the head between the shoulders, and 
stick a skewer through them, running also through 
the neck, to secure its position ; run another skewer 
through the fore-legs, which should be gathered up 
under the haunch ; take a piece of string, double it, 
place the middle of it on the breast of the hare, and 
take both ends over the skewer, cross the string on 
both sides, and fasten it on the back. Thus far 
prepared, spit the hare and roast it before a brisk 
fire for about an hour, frequently basting it with 
fresh dripping. Five minutes before dishing, dredge 
it over with flour, and baste it with some fresh butter. 
When this froths up, and the hare has acquired a 
rich brown crust, take it up, remove the string and 
skewers, place it on its dish, pour some brown gravy 
round it, and send red-currant jelly in a sauce-boat 
to be handed round. 



Stuffing for Hares. 

Cut up the lights, liver, and heart, and fry them 
slightly with the same quantity of ham or bacon ; 
add an onion, mushrooms, nutmeg, pepper and salt, 
and a very small sprig of thyme ; pound all together 
in a mortar. Add two ounces of bread-crumbs and 
^^ c&&> niix well together, and use for stuffing 
hares. 



148 GAME. 

Roast Rabbits. 

Skin and truss the rabbits in the same manner as 
hares ; stuff theni with hare-stuffing ; then spit and 
roast before a clear fire, frequently basting them 
with fresh dripping. Mix a teacupful of cream with 
the yolk of a beaten egg, a dessert-spoonful of flour, 
a little chopped parsley, nutmeg, pepper, and salt. 
Mask the rabbits entirely with this, and as soon as 
it has dried on them, baste them with some fresh 
butter. This prevents them from becoming dry. 
Dish the rabbits with care, to avoid breaking off the 
crust formed upon them. Boil the livers, chop them 
fine, and put into a small stew-pan with chopped 
parsley, a little brown sauce, pepper and salt, nut- 
meg, and a squeeze of lemon ; stir this over the fire 
until it boils* for a few minutes, and pour it under 
the rabbits. 



SALADS. 



Aspic Jelly^for Salads. 

Cut up about ten pounds of shanks of veal, two ox- 
feet, or four calves' feet, and an old fowl, with three 
carrots, one stalk of celery, small bunch of parsley, 
one bay-leaf, one sprig of thyme, the same of sweet 
marjoram, six cloves, and eighteen pepper -corns 
and about an ounce of salt Put all the meat, 
vegetables, herbs, and seasonings into a large pot ; 
pour in as much cold water as will cover them thor- 
oughly ; place the pot on the stove ; and when the 
water boils, skim it well, and boil it gently for seven 
hours without reducing it much in quantity. Then 
strain the stock through a tammy-sieve into pans, 
and place it in the larder to cool till the next day. 
When the stock is perfectly cold and firm, with a 
spoon skim off all the oil and grease. Dip a clean 
napkin in boiling water ; wring it out and dab it 
over the stock to free it from grease ; put the aspic 
in a proper-sized stew-pan, and set it on the stove 
to dissolve ; lightly draw some pieces of white blot- 
ting-paper over its surface, to remove any remaining 
grease. Whip up four eggs with their shells, half a 



ISO SALADS. 

pint of cold water, half a pint of French white 
wine, and a small wine-glassful of tarragon vinegar. 
Mix all up with a whisk, and continue whipping it 
until it begins to boil. Draw it to the side of the 
fire ; place the lid on the pan ; allow it to simmer 
for an hour; then pass it through a jelly-bag or 
napkin. Keep it in a cool place ready for use. 

Oyster Salad, 

Open two dozen large oysters ; add their liquor 
to half a pint of dissolved aspic jelly and the white 
of an egg beat up with the shell ; mix in a small 
pan ; place on the stove till it boils ; pass the jelly 
through a napkin. Take a casserole shape, and wet 
the inside with cold water ; pour in as much jelly 
as will cover the bottom of it ; place the shape 
on ice until it is set quite firm ; then put a row of 
. oysters on the top of the jelly, distant about an inch 
from each other, and with a spoon pour a little of 
the jelly gently over the oysters. Let the shape 
remain on the ice, or in a cool place. Cut some 
thin slices of beetroot lengthways, and, with small 
fancy tin cutters, cut out some shapes of beetroot; 
lay them round in position as for oysters ; sauce 
them over with the jelly, which must be cold, but not 
set Place alternate layers of oysters, beetroot, and 
jelly in the mould, till it is filled. The jelly must be 
allowed to firm before any other layer is added. 
When set and quite firm, dip the shape in tepid 
water, and loosen it round the edges; turn it out 
on its dish without breaking it. Cut up two or 
three lettuces ; add some mustard and cresses, well 



SALADS. 151 

washed and dried in a cloth ; mix two table-spoon- 
fuls of salad-oil with two of vinegar and a little 
pepper and salt Sprinkle them over the lettuces, 
and mix them up lightly ; place them in the centre 
of the aspic 

Salmon Salad. 

Boil a pound of salmon, and when cold cut it up 
into pieces about two inches long and an inch thick. 
Prepare two or three shred lettuces with a little 
mustard and cress ; steep them in a basin with a 
little salad-oil and vinegar, pepper and salt; then 
drain them on a cloth ; mix them up lightly with 
the pieces of salmon. Place them on their dish, and 
sauce the whole over with Prince of Wales's sauce. 
Garnish with boiled beetroot (cut with fancy cutters) 
and two hard-boiled eggs, their yolks cut in four 
parts, and the whites cut with cutters in small shapes. 

Genoese Salad. 

Fillet two soles ; place them in a saut/'psLti with 
a little butter, pepper, and salt When done, place 
them between two dishes until they are cold ; then 
cut them in pieces two or three inches long, and 
roll them in stiff Genoese sauce ; place them on a 
bed of shred lettuces. Take the yolks of three hard- 
boiled eggs and pound them in the mortar with a 
piece of fresh butter, pepper, and salt; rub them 
through a coarse wire-sieve, and put a border of the 
vermicellied yolks round the salad. Cut the whites 
in small forms with small fancy tin cutters to orna- 
ment the salad. 



152 SALADS. 

Robert Salad. 

Take, as a matter of economy, some pieces of 
turbot or brill left from a previous day's dinner; 
season the pieces with pepper and salt; roll each 
piece of fish separately in some cold stiff Robert 
sauce. Shred three or four lettuces; season them 
with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt ; place them on 
the back of a sieve to drip ; put them on their dish ; 
then lay the pieces of fish on the bed of lettuces. 
Garnish round the base of the salad with a border 
of hard-boiled eggs, each cut in four, and some rad- 
ishes cut in shapes and placed between each quar- 
ter of egg. 

Lobster Salad. 

Take a boiled lobster ; remove all the meat from 
the back and claws ; cut it in neat pieces about two 
inches in length ; season them slightly with pepper, 
salt, and vinegar. Take a casserole shape and wet it 
inside with cold water; pour in some dissolved aspic 
jelly, about an inch deep ; put it upon ice or in a 
cool place to firm. When quite stiff, place the 
pieces of fish in the mould upon the jelly; put some 
more jelly over the fish, and let it firm. Take a 
small tin cutter and cut out fancy shapes from 
truffles ; lay them in the mould on the jelly and 
cover it over with aspic ; when set, cover with lob- 
ster and aspic alternately until the mould is full. 
Prepare some lettuce with a little mustard and 
cress ; season with pepper and salt When the aspic 
jelly is perfectly firm, dip the shape in tepid water 
to loosen it round the edges, give a shake, and turn 



SALADS. 153 

it out upon its dish. Place the lettuces, mustard, 
and cress in the well of the casserole shape ; sauce 
it over with mayonnaise sauce without touching the 
aspic. Sprinkle a little of the lobster coral over 
the sauce. 

Mayonnaise of Chicken, 

Cut up a cold roast chicken into small joints, and 
remove the skins ; season them with a little pepper 
and salt Take a casserole shape and wet it inside 
with cold water; pour in aspic jelly to about the 
depth of an inch, and put it away to firm. Have 
two eggs boiled hard ; cut them in halves ; take 
a small cutter, the size of a sixpence, and cut the 
whites up with it; then take a smaller cutter, 
the size of a threepenny piece, and cut out the 
centre of the larger pieces, thus leaving a round 
ring of white of ^gg. Cut out some pieces of 
truffle with the smallest cutter, and put them into 
the rings of the white of ^gg, thus forming eyes. 
Place these on the top of the jelly, about an inch 
apart Take a spoon and pour some aspic jelly 
over the eyes in the mould, remembering that the 
jelly must be cold, but not set When the aspic 
is again firm, place the fillets of chicken on the 
aspic with jelly over them about an inch deep. 
Take a small vegetable cutter, scoop out some 
boiled beetroot in the form of eggs ; place these 
on the jelly in the shape ; cover them over with 
aspic, and allow it to firm. Then fill with chicken 
and jelly alternately, and allow it to firm. Then 
turn it out upon its dish. Take about two or 
three heads of lettuce ; cut away the outside leaves. 



l54 SALADS. 

using the centre portions only ; cut them up rather 
small, with one stalk of celery shred very fine, and 
a little water-cress, with the yolks of the eggs minced ; 
season slightly with pepper and salt Mix up the 
salad, and place it in the centre of the shape of 
aspic ; add a little thick cream to the mayonnaise 
sauce ; pour it over the lettuce, celery, and cress, 
without touching the shape of aspic, and serve. 

NOTK — ^When aspic jelly is not very firm, a little 
gelatine should be added. Mayonnaise sauce may 
be used for lobster, salmon, turbot, or soles, and also 
for oyster salad. 

Galantine of Poularde. 

Pluck, singe, and bone a young turkey or a large 
young fowl. Draw the skin, legs, and wings inside. 
Spread out the boned fowl upon the table ; season 
with pepper and salt Spread a layer of sausage- 
meat an inch thick upon this, and add some slices 
of tongue or lean ham, and a few pieces of truffles ; 
then a layer of sausage-meat, the seasoning, and 
the tongue or ham. Having filled up the galan- 
tine, sew it up with twine ; roll it in a buttered 
napkin ; fasten the ends with string, and set it 
to braise in some fowl or veal stock for about an 
hour and a half. When done, the galantine must 
be allowed to become nearly cold in its own stock, 
in order to make it juicy. Then it must be 
put in press between two flat dishes, with a heavy 
weight on the top ; and when quite cold and re- 
moved from the napkin, the string must be taken 
out and the galantine placed upon its dish, slightly 



SALADS. 155 

glazed and ornamented with aspic jelly, and served 
for breakfast, luncheon, or supper. 



Galantine of Poularde^ with Cream Bichamel $auce. 

Stuff, braise, and press the fowl as already directed. 
When placed upon its dish, sauce it over with cream 
bechamel sauce, with a little isinglass added to the 
sauce. Ornament it with aspic jelly. 

P/teasant Salad, 

Boil a pheasant in white veal stock, and use the 
stock to make some highly seasoned and stiffly 
reduced Allemande sauce. Cut up the pheasant 
into small neat joints ; mask them all over with the 
sauce, and place them on a dish to become cold and 
set firm. Cut up some lettuces ; season them with 
salad-oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt ; then allow them 
to drip on a sieve ; place them on the centre of the 
dish ; then put the joints of pheasant on the bed of 
lettuces. Garnish with roughly minced aspic jelly, 
a few truffles cut in shapes, and prepared cocks- 
combs. 

Grouse Salad, 

Cut up a roast grouse into neat small joints. Use 
the bones and trimmings to make some salmi sauce ; 
reduce it stiffly, and mix it with a third portion of 
aspic jelly. Use this to mask the joints ; and add 
a thick coating of the sauce, and set them on ice 
or in a cool place to become firm. Place seasoned 
shred lettuce on the centre of the dish, and upon 



156 SALADS. 

this build up the joints of grouse. Garnish round 
with curled celery, and an outer border of quarters 
of hard-boiled eggs. Garnish the top with roughly 
minced aspic jelly. 

Russian Salad, 

Boil some carrots, beetroot, and parsnips. When 
cold, either pinch or scoop them out in shapes, or 
cut them in dice. To these add gherkins, also a 
few capers, with cut lobster, or prawns, or chicken 
and ham, cut up in small pieces and sauced over 
with mayonnaise sauce. 



Salad d la Rachel. 

Shred the white stalks of two heads of celery in 
inch lengths, and put these in a dish with the whites 
of three hard-boiled eggs, also shred. Pile them 
up lightly, and pour over them some Prince of 
Wales's sauce. Place some slices of tongue or lean 
ham round the base of the salad. Put the yolks of 
eggs in a mortar; add a teaspoonful of anchovy 
paste, with a little pepper and salt; pound and 
mix all well ; rub through a coarse wire - sieve. 
Sprinkle it over the salad, also some truffles shred 
fine ; then serve. 

Cucumber Salad. 

Peel and then cut the cucumber in thin slices ; 
season with salad-oil and vinegar ; add a few thin 
slices of pickled onions ; sprinkle over with pepper 
and salt. 



SALADS. 157 

Spanish Salad, 

Cut three or four tomatoes in slices, and dish 
them up in a circular row; fill the centre with 
French beans, Spanish peas, pickled button onions, 
green peas, haricot beans, and gherkins, cut in 
pieces, sprinkled over with pepper and salt. Mix a 
table-spoonful of thick cream with some mayonnaise 
sauce, and pour it over the salad. Garnish the dish 
round with a little mustard and cress, and serve. 

Potato Salad, 

Cut up some cold potatoes and boiled beetroot 
in slices ; season with pepper and salt, and mix 
them together in a dish; add a little thick cream 
to some mayonnaise sauce, and pour it over the 
potatoes and beetroot, and serve. A little thick 
cream should always be added to mayonnaise sauce 
when used for fowl and vegetable salads. 

Beetroot Salad, 

Boil two ordinary sized beetroots, and when cold 
cut them in slices. Boil one Spanish onion, and 
cut it in slices ; mix two spoonfuls of salad-oil, one 
of vinegar, a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt ; 
pour over the beetroots and onion. 



SANDWICHES. 



Fish Sandwiches, 

Cut some thin slices of bread, and butter them; 
place thin scollops of any kind of cooked fish you 
may happen to have, on the bread so prepared; 
spread a little tartar sauce over the pieces of fish, 
and strew some shred lettuce - leaves, and a few 
shred gherkins, and hard-boiled eggs cut in thin 
slices ; season with pepper and salt ; place another 
slice of bread and butter upon this, and press it 
Cut up the sandwiches in squares, and dish them 
upon a napkin, and serve. 

The Princess Sandwich, 

Take the meat of roast pheasant, grouse, or par- 
tridge, and cut it into small, neat squares ; to this 
add a third portion of tongue and truffle, cut in the 
same manner. Make a stiff salmi sauce from the 
bones of the birds ; add a small piece of good soup 
glaze; set it away to become cold and firm. All 
the meat, tongue, and truffle must be mixed with 
the sauce, and then be cut out in shapes to suit the 



SANDWICHES. 159 

slices of bread, which must be cut from small milk- 
rolls, and be spread with butter. 

Irish Sandwiches. 

Toast some thin slices of bread ; cut some slices 
of roast game of any sort ; season with a little tartar 
sauce. Place the meat on the slices of toast, sprinkle 
over with a little cress and shred celery. 

Adelaide Sandwiches, 

Cut up some roast chicken in small square pieces, 
and one third the quantity of ham. Make a little 
sauce from the bones of chicken ; boil down to half 
glaze. Mix two spoonfuls of sauce to one of curry- 
paste, and when it boils add the chicken and ham. 
Cut some slices of stale bread ; stamp out these with 
a plain round tin cutter the size of a crown-piece, 
and fry them to a light -brown colour in clarified 
butter. Between two of these round pieces of toast 
place a thick layer of the preparation, and as soon 
as this is done, place them on a baking-sheet ; then 
put upon the tops a round ball about the size of a 
walnut, composed of grated Parmesan cheese and 
butter in equal parts, and kneaded into a paste. Put 
them in a brisk oven for five minutes, and dish them 
on a napkin. 

Egg Sandwiches. 

Boil two eggs very hard ; mince finely the whites 
and yolks separately. Toast two slices of bread ; 
spread them with fresh butter, and over that spread 



i6o SANDWICHES. 

a little curry -paste. Cut away the crusts of the 
toast, and also cut the toast in pieces about five 
inches long and an inch and a half wide ; place a 
narrow row of white of egg in a slanting way on the 
toast, then of yolk, then of chopped parsley, and so 
on until the piece of toast is covered ; then dish on 
a napkin. 

Victoria Sandwiches. 

Cut thin brown bread, and butter it ; and between 
two slices place alternate layers of thinly sliced 
hard-boiled eggs, a little American cress, and fillets 
of anchovies. Divide these slices into small square 
pieces, and dish them on a napkin. 



SUNDRY PREPARATIONS. 



Potted Lobster. 

Boil a lobster ; remove all the meat, pith, and coral, 
and pound in a mortar until reduced to a smooth 
pulp ; then add a teaspoonful of anchovy, a pinch 
of cayenne, a little pounded mace, and four ounces 
of clarified butter. Pound all together thoroughly; 
put it into pots ; smooth over the surface ; cover in 
with clarified butter, and keep it in a cool place. 

Potted Fowl and Ham, 

Roast a fowl and remove all the meat from the 
bones, and with these make a little stock, well 
seasoned with herbs and spice, and boil it down to 
a glaze. Chop the meat with six ounces of cooked 
ham, and pound both together in a mortar to a 
smooth pulp; add the glaze, and four ounces of 
clarified butter. Pound all well together, and put 
in small flat pie-pots ; cover these in with clarified 
butter, and keep them in a cool place. 

Potted Pheasaftt. 

Roast a pheasant, and while hot, remove all the 
meat from the bones, and with these make a little 

L 



i62 SUNDRY PREPARATIONS. 

stock. To this add four shallots, half a bay-leaf, 
small sprig of thyme, a bit of ham ; boil down to a 
glaze and strain it into a basin ; skim it well, and 
add two table-spoonfuls of catsup and two of sherry. 
First chop and then pound into a smooth pulp all 
the meat in a mortar ; add the glaze, six ounces of 
clarified butter, pepper, and salt. Pound all together, 
and fill small pots with it ; cover over with clarified 
butter, and keep in a cool place. 

Potted Spiced Beef, 

Take about three pounds of spiced beef and put 
it into a stew-pan with two quarts of water ; add 
two roots of garlic, one bay-leaf, one small sprig of 
thyme, a very little basil, small sprig of marjoram, 
eight cloves, one blade of mace, twenty pepper- 
corns, and a teaspoonful of celery-seeds. Cover the 
pan with a lid, and set the whole to stew very gently 
over a slow fire for two hours ; strain the liquor into 
a basin ; chop the meat, and then pound it in a 
mortar until reduced to a pulp. Add the liquor, 
previously boiled down, with three ounces of soup 
glaze to half a pint ; pound all together again, with 
half a pound of clarified butter added, and fill up in 
small pots, and cover them with clarified butter. 

To Clarify Butter. 

Put half a pound of butter (or any other quantity) 
into a small stew-pan. Let it dissolve slowly on the 
stove; then boil for a few minutes. Remove the 
scum as it 'rises; draw it to the side of the fire, 



SUNDRY PREPARATIONS. 163 

and • allow it to stand for a few minutes ; then 
strain it through a piece of muslin into a dish, keep- 
ing back the sediment Allow it to cool, but not 
set. It may then be used to cover potted fish 
and meat. 

To Fry Parsley, 

Get a small basket of parsley, or whatever quantity 
may be required ; pluck off the stalks from the 
sprigs ; wash the sprigs in cold water, and place 
them on a dry towel ; gather up the edges of the 
towel, and shake it well, to free the parsley from 
water. Place it in a wire frying - basket, and put 
the basket in a pan with boiling lard or frying fat ; 
fry it for three or four minutes, until it gets crisp. 
When done, put it on paper to drain before the fire, 
and use for garnishing. 

Spinach Greening, 

Get a basket of spinach ; wash it in cold water ; 
put it dripping wet into a mortar; pound it, and 
put into a flat pan ; stir it with a wooden spoon 
until all the juice is extracted from the leaves. 
Turn it out of the pan into a sieve ; allow the juice 
to drip into a basin. It is then ready for use. 



SAVOURIES. 



Savoury Eggs, 

Take any number of eggs ; boil them hard, and 
skin them. When cold, cut off a piece from the 
small end ; take out the yolks, and beat them in a 
mortar with an equal number of anchovies, a little 
catsup, a piece of butter, and a very small piece of 
ham or tongue. Season with pepper and salt and 
squeeze of a lemon. Pound and mix the whole well 
together. With this composition fill the whites of 
the eggs. Cut a thin slice fr(|m the bottom of the 
whites, so that they may sit even on the dish. 
When the whites are all filled, place them on a dish 
with a folded napkin under them. Cut some chips 
of ham or tongue, and of whites of eggs, and place 
them on the top of the filled whites of eggs ; and 
garnish the dish with sprigs of parsley. 

« 

Roasted Oysters. 

Beard and lay three oysters on a piece of thin 
bacon large enough to cover them ; turn the bacon 
over them ; put a skewer through the bacon, so as 



SAVOURIES. 165 

to keep the oysters quite covered ; put them on a 
tin before the fire to roast ; turn them until the 
bacon is nicely cooked without being dry ; then re- 
move the skewers, place the bacon with oysters on 
a piece of buttered toast, and serve very hot. Cook 
as many oysters as may be required in the same 
manner. 

Black Puddings, 

Salt some hog*s blood as soon as drawn ; strain 
and mix it with a little milk ; and stir in minced 
suet, oatmeal, pepper and salt, and minced onion, 
until pretty thick. Have some skins well cleaned, 
and fill them with the mixture ; tie the ends to- 
gether; prick the puddings, and put them into a 
pan with boiling water, and boil for about an hour. 
Serve very hot. 

Note. — These puddings will keep for months if 
laid in oatmeal. When about to use, warm them in 
hot water or broil them on the gridiron. 

Oyster Toasts, 

To four toasts made of a French roll take sixteen 
middle-sized oysters, three anchovies, boned and 
scraped, but not washed ; chop the anchovies and 
oysters together ; put them into a pan with a piece 
of butter, a teaspoonful of flour, and the oyster 
liquor, seasoned with pepper and salt ; let it simmer 
over a slow fire for a little. The slices of French 
roll must be fried in butter ; then spread the mix- 
ture on the toasts, and dish them on a napkin. Gar- 
iftsh with sprigs of parsley, and serve very hot. 



i66 SAVOURIES. 

Marrow Toast. 

Procure a marrow-bone, and cut the marrow into 
pieces the size of a filbert, and parboil them in 
boiling water for one minute. The water must 
be seasoned with salt It must then be instantly 
drained upon a sieve, seasoned with a little chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt, the least bit of chopped 
shallot, and the squeeze of a lemon. Toss lightly 
together; spread it out upon hot, crisp, dry toast, 
and serve immediately. 

Ham Toast, 

Make some toast and butter it hot ; grate a little 
cooked ham or tongue, and sprinkle it over the 
toast ; serve it hot. 

Tomato Cheese. 

Take as many ripe tomatoes as may be required ; 
cut a thin slice from the stalk-ends, and with a tea- 
spoon scrape out all the seeds and soft matter of the 
tomato, without breaking the skin ; rub it through 
a hair-sieve and put it into a small pan, with a piece 
of butter, a little grated Parmesan cheese, and the 
beaten -up yolk of one or two eggs (according to 
the number of tomatoes) ; add pepper and salt to 
taste ; make it hot, and fill the tomato-skins with the 
mixture. Butter the bottom of a pie-dish, and place 
the tomatoes in the dish ; sprinkle a little browned 
bread-crumbs on the top, and bake in a moderate 
oven for ten minutes. Dish them on a napkin, and 
serve very hot 



SAVOURIES. 167 

Savoury Omelette, 

Beat three eggs, then add half a teacupful of 
cream, a little minced parsley and shallot, which has 
been fried very slightly in butter; season with pepper 
and salt Put a piece of butter in an omelette-pan 
and make it hot, then pour in the mixture and stir 
it till it thickens ; smooth the top ; when done on the 
under side, turn it and brown the other side ; roll it 
up and put on a hot dish. 

Scalloped Artichokes, 

Parboil some Jerusalem artichokes, and cut them 
the size of oysters. Butter some scallop-shells, or 
a flat dish; strew with bread-crumbs and a little 
pepper and salt, then put a layer of the pieces of 
artichokes ; sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and 
a little anchovy ; repeat the layers of artichokes 
and seasonings until the dish or scallop-shells are 
full ; strew bread-crumbs over it, and put bits of 
butter on the top. Brown it in the oven, and serve 
hot. 

Cheese Omelette, 

Take a small flat dish that will withstand the 
oven ; cut small pieces of common cheese, about a 
quarter of an inch thick ; set the pieces of cheese on 
their edge all round the dish, about half an inch 
apart from each other ; sprinkle the bottom of the 
dish with brown bread-crumbs, and over that some 
thin slices of cheese ; drop three or four raw eggs 
on the dish ; sprinkle a little pepper and salt ov^r 
the eggs, a little grated cheese, and brown bread- 



i68 SAVOURIES. 

crumbs ; then place a few small bits of butter on the 
top; put it in the oven to bake for ten or fifteen 
minutes. The eggs should be about as firm as when 
poached, but not hard. Send it to table very hot 



Cheese Pudding. 

Take half a pound of mild cheese and grate it ; 
beat two ounces of butter to a cream, and mix it 
with the cheese ; add two spoonfuls of fresh cream ; 
beat up two eggs very light, and mix them with 
the other ingredients ; add the grating of a nutmeg ; 
season with a little pepper and salt. Butter the in- 
side of a basin ; pour the pudding into the basin ; 
bake it in the oven a light brown ; turn it out on a 
dish. Serve exceedingly hot, with dry toast 

Canapees of A ndiozy. 

Toast or fry some squares of bread ; butter them 
slightly, and spread with anchovy paste. Cut up 
small some lettuces or mustard and cress ; boil two 
eggs hard ; pass the yolks through a wire-sieve ; chop 
up small the whites and put them upon the. toast. 
Make them all different by putting a little yolk, then 
the cress, and then the chopped whites by the side 
of each other in strips. Dish them on a napkin, 
and serve them cold. 

Cream Cheese Fritters, 

. Whisk a quarter of a pint of cream ; add the yolks 
of four eggs, previously well beaten, six ounces of 



SAVOURIES. 169 

grated Parmesan cheese, a pinch of sugar, and 
cayenne -pepper. Mix well together, and put the 
mixture into patty-pans and steam for ten minutes. 
Turn them out of the pans, and cut them out with a 
round cutter ; then egg and bread-crumb them, and 
fry in hot lard to a pale-brown colour. Then dish 
them on a napkin, and serve hot 

Macaroni Cheese, 

Soak six ounces of macaroni in cold water for 
one hour ; pour off the water and boil it in a quart 
and a half of sweet milk ; stir it occasionally to pre- 
vent the milk from burning. When the macaroni 
is very soft and milky, mix in lightly three ounces 
of mild cheese ; spread it on a flat dish, and sprinkle 
brown bread-crumbs over the top. Brown it with a 
hot salamander, or before a clear fire, and serve it 
very hot, to be eaten with mustard. 

Rummelled Eggs, 

Boil three eggs till hard ; cut up the whites and 
put them in a sauce-pan with white sauce ; season 
with pepper and salt When quite hot, put it on a 
dish, and rub the yolks through a wire-sieve on 
the mixture, and very slightly brown it with a sala- 
mander, or before the fire. 

Huttres d la Brochette, 

Remove some large oysters from their shells ; toss 
them in bread-crumbs, previously seasoned with 
pepper and salt, with a little parsley finely minced ; 



170 SAVOURIES. 

place them in a double gridiron ; sprinkle them with 
dissolved butter ; grill them for one minute. Dish 
them in a circle on a napkin, with fried parsley in 
the centre. Serve thin slices of brown bread, but- 
tered, and lemon cut in quarters. 

Grilled Mushrooms, 

Skin some fresh mushrooms and sprinkle them 
with a little salad-oil, pepper, and salt ; broil them on 
a gridiron over a clear fire. Serve on buttered toast. 

Green Anchovy Butter. 

Pick about an ounce of fresh parsley, and boil it in 
water for about five minutes ; drain and pound in a 
mortar, with the same weight of boned anchovies 
and fresh butter. Spread this paiste on small squares 
of toast, and serve it hot 

Boiled Cheese. 

Cut in thin slices three ounces of Cheddar or any 
common cheese ; add an ounce of butter and two 
table-spoonfuls of cream ; stir it over the fire till it 
is dissolved. Beat an egg, yolk and white separate, 
and add it to the mixture. Pour it into a flat dish, 
previously heated on the stove ; brown it with a red- 
hot salamander, or in an oven ; serve toast with it. 

Cheese Tartlets. 

Put an ounce and a half of grated Parmesan cheese 
into a stew-pan ; add an ounce of fresh butter and 



SAVOURIES. i7r 

two spoonfuls of cream ; stir it over the fire until it 
is dissolved (it must not boil). Beat an egg, yolk and 
white separately, and add it to the mixture when 
cool. Have in readiness about a dozen tartlet-pans 
lined with thin paste ; fill them three- parts, and 
bake in an oven from about ten to fifteen minutes. 
Dish them on a napkin, and serve hot. 

Croquettes of Macaroni. 

Boil a quarter of a pound of macaroni in water 
till tender ; drain it in a sieve. When cold, cut into 
pieces about a quarter of an inch in length ; moisten 
with white sauce, and add two ounces of grated 
Parmesan cheese and the same of common cheese, 
a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt Heat the 
mixture, and stir into it the yolks of two eggs ; stir 
a little longer to set the yolks ; then pour the mix- 
ture out on a flat dish to become cold. Form into 
olive-shaped pieces about the size of walnuts ; dress 
them with ^g'g and bread-crumbs ; fry them in the 
usual manner. 

Qieese Souffle, 

Take four ounces of flour and mix it with half a 
pint of new milk ; add three ounces of fresh butter ; 
boil it in a stew-pan, stirring all the time ; when it 
has boiled about three minutes, and is quite thick, 
remove it from the fire. Beat up four eggs, yolks 
and whites separately ; mix in the yolks with the 
latter, and three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese ; 
then mix in the whites of eggs — the eggs must be 
very well beaten, so as to make the souffle light. 



172 SAVOURIES. 

When all the ingredients are mixed together, pour 
into a well-buttered j^;/^/-dish. Put it in a brisk 
oven, and bake for about half an hour. It should 
rise very much and be nicely browned on the top, 
and sent to table the moment it is removed from 
the oven. 

Cheese Raniakins, 

Mix three ounces of flour with a breakfast-cupful 
of sweet milk and two ounces of fresh butter. Stir 
all together and boil for a few minutes. Take the 
pan from the fire, and mix in lightly the yolks of 
three eggs, previously well beaten ; then mix in two 
ounces of grated Parmesan cheese and a very little 
pepper and salt Have the whites of three eggs 
whipped to a snow, and mix in lightly with the 
other ingredients. Have some paper ramakin-cases, 
slightly brushed with dissolved butter, in readiness 
on a baking-sheet; fill them three- parts full with 
the mixture. Put the baking-sheet in a brisk oven ; 
bake them from ten to fifteen minutes. They should 
be well risen and nicely browned on the top. Dish 
them on a napkin, and send them to table the 
moment they are removed from the oven. 

Cayenne Cheese. 

Mix three ounces of Parmesan cheese with three 
ounces of butter and the same weight of flour; 
season with cayenne -pepper to taste. Work the 
whole into a paste, and roll it out thin and cut it 
with a cutlet-cutter: bake in a slow oven. Dish 
them on a napkin, and serve hot. 



SAVOURIES. 173 

Cheese Fritters, 

Beat up the whites 01 two eggs on a dinner-plate 
until they are very light and firm. Take two ounces 
of grated Parmesan cheese ; add a pinch of cayenne- 
pepper, a very little salt, and a little grated nutmeg ; 
mix all up slightly with a knife, and roll it together. 
Divide it into pieces the size of a nutmeg ; roll each 
piece into a ball, and place them in a pan of hot 
lard or fat Keep moving them about for a few 
minutes. When brown and well risen, cjish them 
on a napkin. 

Cheese Straws, 

Take six ounces of flour, four ounces of butter, 
two ounces of cream, three ounces of grated Par- 
mesan cheese, the smallest grating of nutmeg, two 
grains of cayenne, a little salt and white pepper ; 
mix, and roll it out and cut into strips the thick- 
ness of a straw. They must be baked in a moderate 
oven, and should be quite crisp and of a pale colour. 
Serve very hot 

Very Rich Cheese Straws, 

Take three ounces of flour, two ounces of butter, 
one ounce of cream, one ounce and a half of grated 
Parmesan cheese, one grain of cayenne, a little white 
pepper, and a little table-salt ; mix all together ; roll 
it out and cut the straws. Bake them quite crisp 
and of a nice brown colour, and dish them hot on a 
napkin. 



174 SAVOURIES. 

Cauliflowers with Parmesan Cheese. 

Boil and drain two or three cauliflowers, and keep 
them hot Put a spoonful of white sauce into a 
stew-pan, with three ounces of Parmesan cheese, one 
ounce of fresh butter, the yolks of three eggs, a 
small piece of glaze, some lemon-juice, nutmeg, and 
pepper and salt; stir it over the fire until well 
mixed, without boiling; pour it over the cauli- 
flowers, and cover with bread-crumbs and grated 
Parmesan cheese. Place them in the oven for about 
a quarter of an hour. When they are a nice yellow 
colour dish them, and garnish round with toasted 
bread cut in small diamonds. 



Large Truffles, 

Cleanse the truffles by brushing in water ; drain 
and place them in a stew-pan ; pour some Italian 
sauce on them ; put some pieces of bacon on the 
top, and set them to boil on a slow fire for about 
three-quarters of an hour; then dish them on a 
folded napkin. Send sauce separately in a sauce- 
boat. Mix a gill of the finest salad-oil with a table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, the juice of a lemon, 
pepper and salt, and two table - spoonfuls of the 
sauce that the truffles were boiled in, skimmed and 
boiled down to half glaze. 

Souffle Potatoes, 

Take six or more potatoes of a size ; wash them 
with a brush in cold water, and dry them with a 



SAVOURIES. 175 

cloth ; bake them in the oven until they are quite 
soft ; cut a small piece off the tops of the potatoes, 
and with a teaspoon scoop out all the inside of the 
potatoes, leaving the skin quite whole. Put the pulp 
into a pan with a piece of butter, a little cream, and 
pepper and salt ; beat well with a fork ; fill the 
skins ; put the tops on ; and put them back in the 
oven for ten minutes. Then dish them on a napkin, 
and serve hot 

Scotch Woodcock, 

Beat the yolks of three eggs till light ; add about 
a quarter of a pint of cream, and bring it to the 
boiling point. Have ready some hot buttered toast, 
spread with anchovy paste ; pour the sauce over the 
top, and serve hot. 

Scotch Sowens. 

Soak some sowen-seeds, with a little oatmeal, in 
tepid water ; let it remain for two days ; then strain 
it, and the third day it is ready for use. The liquor 
being the consistency of thin cream, boil it till per- 
fectly smooth, adding some boiling water if required, 
and a little salt Serve with milk, for supper. 



PUDDINGS. 



Paradise Pudding. 

Six ounces chopped beef- suet, six ounces sultana 
raisins, chopped with six ounces of apples, six 
ounces of bread-crumbs, the grating of a lemon and 
juice, three eggs well whipped and mixed with the 
other ingredients, with six ounces of sugar. Butter 
the inside of a pudding- mould ; put the mixture 
into the mould ; cover the top of it with a piece of 
cloth or paper ; put it into a pan with boiling water, 
and steam it for four hours. Take care that the 
water does not boil into the pudding. When done, 
turn it out on its dish and pour wine-sauce round it, 
and serve hot 

Pompelian Pudding. 

Put into a pan the yolks of four eggs, one ounce 
fresh butter, two ounces pounded sugar, the rind 
and juice of two lemons ; stir it over the fire until 
dissolved and thick — it must not boil ; then beat 
up the whites very stiff, and add to the other in- 
gredients ; then steam for half an hour. The water 



PUDDINGS. 177 

must be boiling before the pudding is put in, but 
not on any account to boil after it is put into the 
pan to steam. Serve with apple-jelly round it. 

Date Pudding, 

Extract the stones from half a pound of dates ; 
chop the fruit, and add to it four ounces of bread- 
crumbs, with three ounces of minced suet and three 
of sugar, a cupful of milk, four eggs well beat, and 
the juice of a lemon. Stir the mixture, and pour 
it into a mould, previously brushed with dissolved 
butter and sprinkled with sugar. Steam the pudding 
for four hours, and serve hot. 

Fig Pudding. 

Mince very finely fourteen figs, half a pound of 
minced beef-suet, a breakfast-cupful of bread-crumbs, 
a quarter-pound sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and 
three eggs well beaten with a cupful of new milk ; 
mix all together ; steam three hours, and serve with 
wine sauce. 

Northumberland Pudding. 

To three eggs, add their weight in flour, butter, 
and sugar ; beat the butter and sugar together to a 
cream ; then add the eggs, one at a time, and beat 
five minutes between each egg ; afterwards mi^^ in, 
lightly, the flour, with two table-spoonfuls of brandy 
and half a pint of sweet cream. Butter the inside of 
a mould, dredge it with pounded sugar, and orna- 
ment with dried cherries and angelica cut in leaves ; 
pour in the pudding, and tie a cloth over the top of 

M 



178 PUDDINGS. 

the mould ; put it into a pan with boiling water, 
taking care that the water does not boil into the 
pudding. Boil it for one hour, and serve with a cus- 
tard or wine sauce. 



Ev^s Pudding. 

Peel and core six good large apples, and mince 
them ; add six ounces of grated bread, six ounces 
of currants well washed, six ounces of sugar, a little 
salt and grated nutmeg, the juice and grated rind of 
half a lemon ; beat up five eggs very light, and mix 
them with the other ingredients, and put it into a 
buttered mould, and boil it for three hours ; and pour 
brandy or wine sauce over the pudding, and serve 
hot 

Pauline Pudding. 

Mix ten ounces of bread-crumbs, with six ounces 
of moist sugar, five ounces of minced beef-suet, the 
grated rind and juice of a lemon ; mix the whole 
together and press it in a mould. Boil for an hour 
and a half. 

Prince of Wales*s Pudding, 

One pound of apples stewed with a little sugar 
and rubbed through a sieve ; a quarter-pound of 
fresh butter, and a quarter-pound of pounded sugar, 
beat together to a cream. Take four eggs ; separate 
the whites from the yolks ; beat both separately till 
very light ; mix one table-spoonful of flour with three 
of cream, the grating and juice of one lenion ; mix all 
the ingredients together. The whites of eggs must 



PUDDINGS. 179 

be added last. Have a pudding- dish lined with 
puff- paste; pour the pudding into the dish, and 
bake in a moderate oven for half an hour, or a 
little longer. The pudding should be well risen, 
and nicely browned on the top. 

Russian Pudding, 

Six ounces of sugar and a quarter of a pound 
of fresh butter, and a small glassful of sherry wine ; 
boil in a small sautZ-pRn for one minute. Take four 
eggs, and separate the whites from the yolks ; beat 
both till light ; mix in the yolks with the other in- 
gredients, and then the whites ; line the baking-dish 
with a thin paste ; spread it all over with orange 
marmalade ; and bake it in a slow oven for about 
three quarters of an hour. Serve hot. 

• 

Spanish Pudding, 

Put three table-spoonfuls of ground rice, one pint 
of cream, and one quarter-pound of fresh butter, into 
a stew-pan ; boil all these ingredients on the fire, then 
take off. When cool, add the yolks of five eggs pre- 
viously well beaten, and a quarter-pound of pounded 
sugar ; beat the five whites of eggs to a snow, and 
add to the other ingredients. Butter the dish and 
pour in the pudding, and bake it for nearly an hour ; 
then remove it from the oven, turn it upside-down 
on the dish, with black-currant jam under it ; cover 
the top with apricot jam. Care must be taken to 
bake the pudding light brown. To be eaten hot or 
cold as preferred. 



i8o PUDDINGS. 

Raspin Pudding. 

Line a mould with puff- paste; put a layer of 
apricot jam in the bottom, and fill it with a rich cus- 
tard. Bake an hour in a moderate oven ; turn it 
out on a dish ; sauce it with diluted apricot jam ; 
and serve it hot 

Cups Pudding. 

Add one cupful of bread-crumbs to one of flour, 
the same of suet, sugar, and raspberry jam, an egg, 
&c., a little salt, and one teaspoonful of carbonate of 
soda. Steam for two hours. If the jam is dry, 
moisten with a little milk. Use a little melted jelly 
as the sauce, and serve hot 

Cocoa-nut Pudding. 

Beat four ounces of sugar with two ounces of 
butter to a cream ; add the yolks of five eggs, one at 
a time ; beat five minutes between each yolk ; have 
one breakfast-cupful of grated bread soaked in half 
a pint of boiling milk ; grate the third part of a 
cocoa-nut; add it to the other ingredients; season 
with one glassful of brandy and the juice of half a 
lemon ; then mix in the whites of five eggs, previ- 
ously beaten to a snow. Pour the pudding into a but- 
tered mould, and steam it for two hours. Mix a tea- 
spoonful of arrowroot with the milk of the nut ; add 
a little sugar, and three drops of cochineal. Boil it 
for a few minutes, stirring all the time ; season with 
a glassful of sherry wine. Pour the sauce round the 
pudding when dished, and serve hot 



PUDDINGS. i8i 

Chestnut Pudding. 

Peel and boil until tender forty chestnuts ; rub 
them through a sieve, and place in a stew-pan, with 
a pint of cream, a quarter of a pound of butter, a 
quarter of a pound of sugar, a few drops of vanilla, 
and a pinch of salt. Stir this over the fire until it 
thickens and detaches from the sides ; remove from 
the fire and add eight yolks, and the whites of six 
eggs beat to a snow ; mix the whole well together. 
Put into a mould, and steam for one hour and a half 
Serve with Eve's sauce. 

Sauce for above. 

Put half a pint of cream and a glassful of mar- 
aschino into a pan ; place it on the stove ; when it 
has come to the boil, thicken with a little arrow- 
root. Boil for a few minutes, and pour round the 
pudding. 

Caramel Pudding 

Put about half a pound of lump-sugar into a pan ; 
add as much cold water as will barely cover it ; boil 
on the fire until it is reduced to half its first quantity; 
pour it into a pudding-mould, and let the mould be 
thinly coated with it Make a custard of ten yolks 
of eggs and one pint of cream, flavoured with a 
glassful of rum and sweetened to taste ; pour the 
custard into the mould. Put it into a pan with boil- 
ing water to steam for about forty minutes 



i82 PUDDINGS. 

Carrot Pudding, 

Boil two ordinary-sized carrots. When cold, grate 
them ; add half a pound of currants, five ounces of 
minced suet, three table- spoonfuls of flour, one table- 
spoonful of sugar. Boil in a shape for three hours. 
Serve hot 

Marmalade Pudding, 

Mince very finely four ounces of beef-suet ; add 
four ounces of bread-crumbs, four ounces of sugar, 
four ounces of marmalade, and two ounces of ground 
rice. Beat up four eggs very light ; mix them with 
the other ingredients. Butter a mould slightly; 
ornament it with raisins ; pour the pudding into 
the mould, and steam it for two hours. When 
dished, pour a little marmalade, mixed with sherry 
wine, round it for sauce. Serve hot 

• 

Lemon Pudding, 

Add half a pound of bread-crumbs to half a pound 
of chopped beef-suet, a quarter-pound of sugar, the 
juice and grating of a large lemon, and a pinch of 
salt. Beat up three eggs very light ; mix with the 
other ingredients ; steam for two hours. Serve with 
wine-sauce. 

Wine-Sauce for above. 

Beat the yolks of two eggs with a spoonful of 
sugar ; add one ounce of fresh butter, and a teacup- 
ful of water. Put it into a sauce-pan and stir it till 
it is nearly boiling, and add a glassful of sherry wine. 



PUDDINGS. 183 

Lefnon Puddings Baked, 

Put the rind and juice of three lemons into a basin, 
with four ounces of sugar, and four ounces of bruised 
ratafia biscuits. Beat the whites and yolks of six 
eggs separately ; mix the yolks with the other in- 
gredients ; then put in half a pint of cream and the 
whites of eggs. Pour the mixture into a pie-dish 
lined with puff-paste. Bake in an oven for twenty 
minutes or half an hour. 



Orange Tart 

Weigh two large oranges ; boil them in water for 
half an hour. Put the juice and pulp of the fruit in 
a basin, with double their weight of sugar, and a 
piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut, and beat 
all together. Line a very shallow dish with thin 
paste. Put in the mixture, and cover the top 
with whites of eggs, beaten with a little sugar ; then 
bake it 

Mince-Pies. 

Mince one pound of beef-suet very fine, and one 
pound of tender beef ; one pound of stoned raisins, 
minced with one pound of peeled apples, one pound 
of currants, half a pound of sugar, one teaspoonful of 
salt, a little pounded ginger and cinnamon, and a 
teaspoonful of mixed spices ; mix all these ingredi- 
ents together, and put them into a stone jar ; pour 
half a pint of brandy over it ; tie it up closely with 
a piece of bladder. The mince may be used imme- 
diately, but it is much improved by keeping it for 



i84 PUDDINGS. 

some weeks. When the pies are to be made, have a 
puff-paste ready ; roll it out to about an inch larger 
than the dish, and half an inch thick ; cover a flat 
dish with paste ; brush the edge with egg ; fill the 
dish with minced meat ; then cover it over with 
paste ; press the edges together, and notch it round 
with a knife ; make incisions on the top, to let the 
meat appear ; brush over the top with egg ; bake 
in a quick oven for half an hour. Serve very hot 

Small mince-pies are made in patty-pans the same 
way as above. Twenty minutes will bake them in 
a quick oven. Dish them on a napkin, and serve 
hot 

Plum-Pudding, 

Mince one pound of beef -suet; stone three- 
quarters of a pound of raisins ; wash and dry the 
same quantity of currants ; to these add one pound 
of bread-crumbs and six ounces of flour, half a 
pound of moist sugar, a teaspoonful of ground gin- 
ger and one of cinnamon, two ounces of orange-peel 
minced, and a teaspoonful of salt Mix all these 
ingredients together, and put them into a basin ; add 
five eggs, well beaten, half a pint of milk, a glassful 
of brandy, and the grated rind and juice of half a 
lemon. Mix thoroughly, and boil the pudding, either 
in a cloth or in a basin, for five or six hours. When 
dished, make an incision on the top with a knife ; 
pour a glassful of brandy over it ; dip a spoon in the 
brandy; hold it to a burning candle; touch the pud- 
ding with it, and send to table burning, if liked ; or 
serve with brandy-sauce. 



PUDDINGS. 185 

Sauce for above. 

Mix a teaspoonful of arrowroot with half a pint 
of water, two spoonfuls of sugar, a glass of brandy, 
about four drops of cochineal ; stir this quickly over 
the fire until it boils, and pour round the pudding. 

Cabinet Pudding, 

Butter the inside of a mould slightly ; ornament 
the bottom and sides with dried cherries or raisins. 
Fill the mould with cut sponge-cakes and ratafia 
biscuits ; then fill it up with a cold custard made 
with six eggs and a pint of boiled milk, with five 
ounces of sugar, a glassful of brandy, and a little 
lemon -juice, all mixed together. Steam the pud- 
ding for an hour, and serve with wine-sauce. 

College Puddings, 

Put sugar and butter, to the weight of two eggs, 
into a basin ; beat it to a cream ; drop in the eggs 
one at a time ; beat five minutes between each. 
Mix in the same weight of flour, a few currants, and 
a table-spoonful of sherry wine. Butter the insides 
of small pans and dust them with pounded sugar ; 
fill them three-parts full. Place them upon a bak- 
ing-sheet, and put them in the oven to bake for 
twenty minutes or half an hour. When done, dish 
them and pour wine-sauce round them. 

Note. — These puddings may be eaten cold. The 
mixture may be put in a basin and steamed instead 
of baked. 



i86 PUDDINGS. 

Custard Pudding. 

Beat up SIX eggs with four ounces of sugar. Boil 
one pint of milk with a stick of cinnamon or two bay- 
leaves ; when it boils, remove the cinnamon or bay- 
leaves, and pour the milk among the eggs, stirring 
them all the time. Butter the inside of a pudding- 
dish slightly, and pour in the custard. Bake for 
half an hour. Sprinkle a little sugar over it, and 
serve hot. (This pudding may be steamed instead 
of baked, and served with wine-sauce.) 

Bread-and'Butter Pudding. 

Cut some slices of bread rather thin and butter 
them ; sprinkle slightly with sugar and a few cur- 
rants ; cut each in four, and place them in a pud- 
ding-dish. When full, pour boiling milk over the 
bread, and cover with a plate; then beat up two 
or more eggs, according to the size of the dish ; put 
them over the bread ; let it stand for ten minutes to 
allow the eggs to mix with the bread ; then place 
it in the oven to bake for about half an hour. Serve 
hot, with cream separately 

La Perde Pudding, 

Cut two or three slices from a stale loaf; cut off 
the crusts ; place them singly on a flat deep dish ; 
pour boiling milk gently over them ; cover the top 
with a dish. When the bread is well soaked with 
milk, it must be done on both sides with beaten 
egg, and placed in a frying-pan with a piece of fresh 



PUDDINGS. 187 

butter made hot, and fried pale-brown on both sides. 
Dish it on a napkin. Sprinkle it with sugar, and 
serve hot 



yam RolL 

Mix one pound and a quarter of flour with half a 
pound of chopped suet, a little salt, and one ^^'g^ and 
about half a pint of water. Roll the paste up into 
a ball ; then roll it out with a rolling-pin, the same 
as puff-paste. It must be made square, and aboyt 
a quarter of an inch thick. Take black-currant or 
raspberry jam, and spread all over it, without allow- 
ing it to reach the edges of the paste ; then roll it 
up so as to fold the jam inside. Wet the ends of 
the pudding and press them together. Grease a 
cloth with butter, dust it with flour, and roll the 
pudding into it ; tie the ends with string ; put it in 
boiling water. Boil for two hours, and serve with 
cream. 

German Puffs 

Beat two ounces of butter, with two of sugar, to a 
cream ; add the yolks of two eggs, and beat for five 
minutes. Mix two spoonfuls of flour, two ounces of 
pounded almonds, half a pint of cream, one teaspoon- 
ful of orange-flower water, and the whites of two eggs 
beat to a snow. Mix with the other ingredients. 
Bake them in small mince-pie pans ; butter the pans 
well and fill them half full. Half an hour in a slow 
oven will bake them. Serve very hot with wine- 
sauce. 



i88 PUDDINGS. 

Duchess Loaves, 

Put half a pint of milk into a stew-pan, with five 
ounces of flour, four ounces of butter, two ounces of 
sugar, two ounces of chopped almonds, a little orange 
or lemon juice. Place the pan on the fire, and stir 
it until it boils for about three minutes. Mix in 
three eggs, one at a time. Divide the mixture into 
small round balls the size of a pigeon's ^^% ; place 
them on a baking -sheet spread with butter, and 
bake to a light-brown colour. When cold, make an 
incision down the sides and fill the loaves with 
apricot jam. Then dish them up on a napkin, and 
serve. 

Cheese-Cakes, 

Beat six ounces of sugar with two ounces of but- 
ter ; add four yolks of eggs, one at a time, and beat 
till light ; add the grated rind of two lemons or 
oranges and a little salt Mix eight ounces of press- 
ed curd with two ounces of ratafia biscuits, crushed ; 
mix in lightly four whites of eggs, previously well 
beaten. Next, line two dozen or more tartlet-pans 
with puff-paste ; put a little of the mixture on the 
paste; place a strip of candied lemon -peel on the 
top of each. Put them on a baking-sheet, and place 
them in the oven, at moderate heat. Bake to a 
light-brown colour. When done, shake a little sugar 
over them. Dish them on a napkin, and serve 
hot 

Almond C/teese-Cakes. 

Line about a dozen and a half of tartlet-pans with 
puff-paste. Skin and pound four ounces of sweet 



PUDDINGS. 189 

almonds and one ounce of bitter, with five ounces 
of white sugar passed through a fine wire -sieve. 
Beat the whites of four eggs to a snow ; mix the 
almonds and sugar lightly with the whites of eggs ; 
add one teaspoonful of cold water. Fill the centre 
of the tartlet-pans three- parts full ; place them on a 
baking- sheet ; put them in the oven, at moderate 
heat, and bake for about half an hour. Dish on a 
napkin, and serve cold. 

Almond Tartlets. 

Skin and pound in a mortar, six ounces of Jordan 
almonds, with two ounces of pounded sugar and 
half an ounce of butter ; pound the whole together 
till it becomes a thick paste ; spread the paste in 
equal parts on the tartlet-cases. Put them in a 
slow oven till the almond-paste becomes a fawn col- 
our and quite crisp. When cold, fill the centre with 
whipped cream, and dish them on a napkin. 

Conservative Pudding, 

Ornament a pudding-mould with preserved fruit ; 
then line it with thin slices of sponge-cake ; put 
a layer of fruit between each layer of cake until 
the mould is half full ; then fill it up with custard, 
and steam it for three-quarters of an hour. Serve 
with whip-sauce. 

Whip-Sauce for above. 

Put two yolks of eggs into a small pan ; add an 
ounce and a half of white sugar, a glass of sherry, 



I90 PUDDINGS. 

the rind and juice of half a lemon, and a spoonful of 
water ; whisk on the stove until it thickens. When 
about the thickness of cream, pour it round the pud- 
ding and serve. 

Transparent Pudding, 

Put one pint of good milk into a stew-pan with 
three ounces of sugar ; mix two spoonfuls of fine 
flour with one spoonful of arrowroot ; mix with a 
little of the milk and pour it into the pan. Set it 
on the stove, and stir it until it boils for about eight 
minutes ; allow it to cool a little ; flavour slightly 
with ratafia. Add the yolks of three eggs, well 
beaten, also the beaten whites ; pour it into a mould ; 
steam half an hour. Serve with wine-sauce. 

Potato Pudding. 

Boil and skin two pounds of potatoes ; pass them 
through a fine wire-sieve ; add six ounces of suet 
finely minced, two table - spoonfuls of flour, six 
ounces of sugar, an ounce of lemon-peel minced 
fine, four eggs well beaten ; mix all together ; sea- 
son with a glass of brandy, and bake in a quick 
oven. Serve hot. ^ 

Tapioca Pudding, 

Put half a pound of tapioca into a stew-pan, with 
a quart of milk, a quarter-pound of sugar, one ounce 
of butter, a pinch of salt, and a little grated lemon- 
peel ; stir over the fire until it boils. When it has 
boiled about half an hour, remove the pan from the 
fire, and allow it to cool. Beat up four eggs ; mix 



PUDDINGS. 191 

with the tapioca, and bake for half an hour in a 
pie-dish. 

Pancakes. 

Break two eggs in a basin and mix them with two 
spoonfuls of flour, and as much milk as make it a 
batter of the consistency of cream. Have a small 
frying-pan hot, with its inside brushed with dissolved 
butter ; fry spoonfuls of this batter ; when slightly 
browned on both sides, sprinkle with sugar and fpld 
it twice into the form of a fan. When all the pan- 
cakes are made, dredge them with pounded sugar, 
and glaze with a red-hot salamander. Dish them on 
a napkin and serve hot, with lemon cut in quarters. 

Sweet Omelette, 

Take four fresh eggs ; separate the yolks from the 
whites Beat the yolks in a basin, with an ounce of 
pounded sugar, till very light ; beat the whites to a 
snow on a dinner-plate ; mix lightly with the yolks. 
Heat about two ounces of fresh butter in an omelette- 
pan. Pour the omelette into the pan, and hold it 
over a clear fire until it fastens ; then hold the pan 
before the fire until it is well risen, and slightly 
browned on the top. Put apricot jam in the centre, 
roll it up and dish it on a napkin. Serve hot. 

Louis Philippe s Pudding, 

Take six or eight apples all of the same size ; pare 
them nice and round ; scoop out the cores without 
breaking the apples. Put a piece of whole cinnamon 
in the centre of each apple. Take a flat-bottomed 



192 PUDDINGS. 

basin that will hold the apples ; place them in the 
basin ; pour a teaspoonful of brandy over each one. 
Put a piece of paper over the top of the basin, and 
set it in a pan with boiling water to steam. When 
they are soft, but not broken, remove the cinnamon, 
and put a teaspoonful of orange marmalade in the 
centre of each apple. When dishing, pile them up 
in the centre ; whip up about half a pint of cream ; 
season it slightly with a few drops of ratafia and 
a little pounded sugar, and put it over the apples. 
They must be entirely covered with the cream. 
Sprinkle the top with bruised ratafia biscuits. 



Crystal Palace Pudding, 

Mix a dessert - spoonful of Poison's corn - flour 
with a teacupful of new milk, and half an ounce 
of isinglass or gelatine previously soaked with the 
milk ; also half a pint of sweet cream, with sugar to 
taste. Boil all these ingredients together for about 
ten minutes, stirring all the time. Take the pan off" 
the fire, and stir in quickly the yolks of two eggs 
that have been well beaten. Stir until nearly cold. 
Pour the mixture into a mould that has been pre- 
viously wet with cold water and ornamented with 
dried cherries and other sweetmeats, and serve cold, 
with a sauce of apricot jam and sherry wine, well 
mixed, and pressed through a wire-sieve. 

Pudding of Cream 

Soak one ounce of gelatine in a teacupful of cold 
water for a quarter of an hour ; then put it into 



PUDDINGS. 193 

a small pan and stir it on the fire until it becomes 
quite liquid. Then stir it into a quart of cream, 
sweetened with sugar and flavoured with a few drops 
of ratafia. Pour cream to the depth of an inch into 
a plain mould, and allow it to firm ; then put stewed 
peaches, apricots, cherries, or plums, in the middle 
of the mould. They must be kept in from the edge, 
and piled up in the centre, and the creamy sub- 
stance put around the sides. Fill the mould to the 
top and cover it all over with the cream. When set, 
turn out upon a dish and serve. 

Water Melon, 

Make a sponge-cake and bake it in a melon shape; 
when cold, cut a slice from the top an inch thick ; 
then cut out the heart of the cake, leaving the shell 
an inch and a half in thickness ; spread the inside 
with apricot jam, and fill it up with whipped cream 
seasoned with a little sugar and slightly stiffened 
with a little gelatine ; replace the slice which had 
been cut off"; turn it on a dish and cover it over with 
some of the cream. Sprinkle it with a few chopped 
pistachios. 

Fruit Beverage. 

Take a little calfs-feet or wine jelly, and dissolve 
it slightly. Put it into a plain shape to about the 
depth of an inch. Place the mould on ice ; take ripe 
strawberries or cherries, cut them in halves, and 
place them on the top of the jelly in the mould ; 
then pour in a little jelly, and allow it to firm. Dis- 

N 



194 PUDDINGS. 

solve some isinglass or gelatine, and mix it with as 
much cream as will fill up the shape. Flavour it with 
the juice of the fruit Care must be taken that the 
cream is not too soft, as it might dissolve the jelly. 
When cold, turn out upon a dish. 



Strawberry Souffle. 

Remove the stalks from one pound of strawberries; 
pound them in a mortar, and pass them through a 
hair-sieve ; add pounded sugar to taste, and a tea- 
cupful of cream. Mix a table -spoonful of potato 
fecula with a gill of milk and two ounces of sugar ; 
stir it over the fire until it gets quite thick. Add the 
yolks of four eggs, previously well beaten, then the 
strawberry pulp ; stir it well off the fire until it is 
quite smooth ; then stir in quickly the whites of six 
eggs, previously whisked to a stiff froth. Butter 
the 'inside of a plain mould slightly, and pour in 
the mixture ; put it into the oven at once, and bake 
for twenty minutes. Serve quickly. 



Potato Souffle, 

Mix a large spoonful of potato fecula and of 
pounded sugar with half a pint of new milk ; put it 
into a pan and stir it over the fire until it boils. 
Remove the pan from the fire and flavour the mix- 
ture with orange-flower water, chocolate, or coffee; 
beat up the yolks of six eggs with a little sugar ; add 
them to the mixture. Mix in lightly the beaten 
whites, and bake for half an hour. 



PUDDINGS. 195 

Fruit Souffle, 

Remove the stones from a dozen ripe peaches or 
apricots ; put the fruit into a stew-pan with half a 
pound of sugar and a teacupful of water ; boil it 
over the fire until the fruit is dissolved, and then 
rub it through a sieve. Mix three ounces of potato 
fecula with half a pint of cream, and add it to the 
stewed fruit ; mix the whole well together and boil 
it for a few minutes, stirring all the time. Remove 
the pan from the fire, and then work in five yolks of 
eggs, previously well beaten ; beat the whites to a 
snow, and mix them lightly with the other ingredi- 
ents. Pour the mixture into a souffl^-ixshy and bake 
for about half an hour. 

Souffle of Oranges 

Grate the rinds of two pounds of oranges in a 
basin ; cut the oranges in halves, and press the juice 
through a sieve ; mix it with the rind ; add six 
ounces of pounded sugar. Beat up six yolks of 
eggs, and add it to the orange pulp ; mix two table- 
spoonfuls of flour with a teacupful of cream ; mix 
all these ingredients together. Then beat up the 
whites of six eggs, and mix up lightly with the 
other ingredients ; pour the mixture into a souffle- 
dish, and bake it in a sharp oven for about twenty 
minutes. It should be sent to table the moment it 
is removed from the oven. 

Light Souffle. 

Beat the yolks of three eggs with two spoonfuls 
of pounded sugar, until they are very light ; beat the 



196 PUDDINGS. 

whites of the eggs to a snow, and mix together. 
Pour the mixture into a souffiMish. which has been 
brushed with dissolved butter, and apricot jam in 
the bottom of the dish ; sprinkle a little sugar on the 
top, and bake for about ten minutes. 



Apple Charlotte. 

Line the bottom of a plain round mould with 
small thin circular shapes of bread, stamped out 
with a tin cutter the size of a shilling. Dip these 
in clarified butter, and place them in circular order, 
overlaying each other until the bottom of the mould 
is completely covered. Next line the sides of the 
mould with thin oblong pieces ®f bread, cut an inch 
wide and the fourth of an inch thick, and of suffi- 
cient length for the depth of the mould. These 
must also be dipped in the butter before they are 
placed in the mould. The mould must then be 
filled with well-reduced apple marmalade made as 
follows : Peel, core, and slice about a dozen or 
more of apples ; put them in a pan with about a 
teacupful of cold water, ten ounces of sugar, half 
a stick of cinnamon, and a piece of lemon -peel. 
Place the lid on the pan, and set it on the stove or 
clear fire until the apples are dissolved and reduced 
to a thick substance, bearing in mind that it must 
be stirred constantly while on the fire, to prevent 
its burning. Then the mould must be filled with 
the marmalade, and covered on the top with a 
thin round piece of bread, made to fit the inner 
circle of the fingers of bread. Place the mould 
on a baking-sheet, and set it in a brisk oven to be 



PUDDINGS. 197 

baked to a light brown colour ; and when turned 
out on its dish, pour some diluted apricot jam 
round the base, and serve hot, with cream separ- 
ately. 

Apple Fritters, 

Cut soft apples in thick slices ; scoop out the 
cores with a tin cutter ; then pare off the rind, and 
place the pieces of apples in a basin ; add a small 
glassful of brandy and a spoonful of sugar, and let 
them steep in this for an hour. Next make a fry- 
ing batter of half a pound of flour, a table-spoonful 
of salad-oil, a pinch of salt, and two yolks of eggs. 
Mix these together with a wooden spoon until it 
presents a smooth, creamy appearance, pouring in 
at intervals about half a pint of tepid water. It 
must then be set aside for about an hour or so ; and 
when about to use it, add lightly three whites of 
eggs, previously whisked into a firm froth. Next 
dip the pieces of apple in the batter, and drop them 
gently one by one into a pan with hot lard ; turn 
them over in this lightly with a fork ; and when 
fried light brown remove them from the pan on to 
a dish covered with paper. Allow them to drain, 
and sprinkle them over with pounded sugar ; pass 
•a red hot salamander over them. Dish them on a 
napkin, and serve hot. 

Gdteau of Apple. 

Boil one pound of sugar with a pint of water to 
a syrup ; add a pound and a half *of apples ; boil 
and pass them through a wire-sieve ; return it to the 



198 PUDDINGS. 

pan and boil for about five minutes, to reduce the 
syrup ; pour it into a casserole mould, previously 
brushed with salad-oil. When cold, turn it out and 
fill the centre with whipped cream. Pour sauce 
round it, made with two spoonfuls of red-currant 
jelly and a glassful of sherry wine mixed together. 

Orange Fritters, 

Skin the oranges, and cut them in quarters ; use 
a sharp knife to pick out the septa and pips. Steep 
the pieces of orange in a glassful of brandy and a 
spoonful of sugar for an hour ; and when about to 
fry them, dip them separately in batter, and fry 
them in the usual way, the same as apples. 

Apple Shape. 

Take some firm, green apples ; pare and core 
them ; throw them into cold water as they are 
done ; then put them to boil in a copper pan, with 
just as much water as keep them from burning. 
When tender, pass them through a fine wire-sieve. 
To every pound of apples add three-quarters of a 
pound of pounded white sugar. Return the apple 
pulp into the pan and boil it very quickly, stirring 
all the time. When done, put it into a mould. 
When cold, turn it out upon a dish, and serve with 
cream. 

Apple Tart. 

Pare and corfe as many apples as will fill a pie- 
dish; cut them in quarters and pack them in the 



PUDDINGS. 199 

dish closely, and add sugar; heap the apples high 
in the centre of the dish, then add more sugar. 
Have a piece of paste ready, and with a paste- 
brush egg the edge of the dish. Set the pie-dish 
on the paste, and run the knife round the outside of 
the dish ; take it off, and cut a small bit of paste 
the breadth of the border of the pie-dish ; lay it 
round the edge of the dish, and brush it with egg. 
Then lay on the cover ; press it round the edge on 
the border, and nick it round the edge with a knife ; 
brush it over with egg, and dust it with pounded 
sugar. Bake in a moderate oven for about an hour. 
Serve hot or cold, as preferred. 



Shape of Rice. 

Boil two ounces of whole rice in one pint of sweet 
milk, until tender ; dissolve half an ounce of gela- 
tine in half a pint of milk, and add it to the rice, 
with three ounces of almonds skinned and chopped 
fine, two ounces of pounded sugar, and nihe drops 
of vanilla. Mix all well together; then add half a 
pint of cream, and stir the mixture till cold ; pour 
it into a shape. When set, turn it out and serve 
with jam. 

Cream Pudding. 

Break two eggs into a pan ; add two ounces of 
pounded sugar ; beat it on the hot plate until it is 
hot ; remove the pan from the fire and beat till cold. 
Whip half a pint of cream and mix it with the eggs. 
Soak a piece of sponge-cake with a glassful of sherry * 



200 PUDDINGS. 

wine, and add to the mixture, with half an ounce of 
dissolved gelatine ; pour it into a mould previously 
ornamented with dried fruits. When the pudding 
is firm, turn it out and pour syrup round it 



Shape of Sea-Moss Farina. 

Mix two large teaspoonfuls of the powder in 
half a pint of boiling milk ; stir it until smooth ; 
then put it into a pan with one English pint of new 
milk and an ounce of sugar, and slowly boil it, stir- 
ring all the time until quite melted. Then let it 
simmer by the fire until it is like thick cream ; then 
strain it through muslin into a basin. Beat two 
eggs and add them to the mixture ; then put it all 
into the pan and just bring it to the boil, and put it 
into a shape. When cold, turn out and serve it with 
plum jam round the dish, and cream, separately. 

Devonshire Cream. 

Put new milk into a pan ; let it stand for twelve 
hours ; then put it on a slow fire or stove, in the 
same pan in which it has stood. Let it heat slowly 
until one can just suffer the finger in it ; then let it 
stand in a cool place for other twelve hours, after 
which skim it 

Stewed Prunes, 

Put about a pound and a quarter of prunes into a 

pan, with about a quarter of a pound of lump-sugar. 

• Add as much cold water as will nearly cover them. 



PUDDINGS. 20I 

Put the pan on a slow fire or stove, and stew the 
prunes slowly until tender ; then remove the stones 
without breaking the fruit much. Place the prunes 
in a circle round the dish, the same as with cutlets. 
Break the stones, and pick out the kernels ; dip 
them in boiling water and skin them. Place a ker- 
nel upon each prune. The juice of the fruit must 
be boiled down to a syrup. Strain through muslin ; 
colour slightly with cochineal, and pour it round 
the base. Whip up about half a pint of thick cream ; 
heap it up in spoonfuls in the centre of the dish. 
Sprinkle a little pink sugar over it, and serve. 

Shape of Rhubarb. 

Take some rhubarb, cut off the pink ends, and 
put them into a brass pan. For every pound of 
rhubarb add one pound of white sugar, and as much 
cold water as will cover the bottom of the pan. 
Place it on a slow fire or stove ; stir it until tender ; 
then rub it through a hair-sieve. To every quart of 
prepared rhubarb add one ounce of dissolved gela- 
tine, and mix thoroughly. Pour it into a casserole 
shape. When firm, turn it out on a dish, and put 
whipped cream in the centre. 

Shape of Green Gooseberries, 

Put some green gooseberries in a brass pan ; add 
their weight of sugar, and a little cold water. Boil 
them to a mash, and rub through a hair-sieve. Add 
as much spinach-juice as will make it of a nice green 
colour; add one ounce of dissolved gelatine to a 



202 PUDDINGS. 

quart of the mixture. Pour it into a casserole shape. 
When turned out on its dish put whipped cream in 
the centre, and sprinkle over with pink sugar. 

Russian Charlotte, 

Take some finger biscuits; cut them with a tin 
cutter into shapes — diamonds or squares ; line the 
bottom and sides of a plain mould with them. They 
must fit closely to one another. Soak one ounce of 
gelatine in a quart of cold water ; add one pound of 
lump-sugar, the rind and juice of four lemons, and 
the yolks of five eggs, all whisked up together. Put 
the mixture into a pan, and stir it over the fire until 
it is nearly boiling ; then strain it through a hair- 
sieve. Add a table- spoonful of brandy; stir occa- 
sionally until cold but not set Put it gently into 
the mould that has been lined with the biscuits. 
When firm, turn it out upon a dish, 

Devonshire Junket, 

Put about a quart of new milk into a pan, and 
make it lukewarm. Pour it into a dish ; add a 
table-spoonful of rennet and the same of brandy. 
When thick, pour over it half a pint of cream and 
a little grated nutmeg 

General Satisfaction Pudding. 

Dissolve one ounce of butter in a stew-pan ; add 
two ounces of flour, three of sugar, and half a pint 
of milk ; then boil it in the pan until it becomes 



PUDDINGS. 203 

a thick paste. Mix in two ounces of chopped 
almonds, and the juice of half an orange or lemon ; 
add the yolks of four eggs, well beaten ; beat the 
whites to a snow, and mix them in lightly with the 
mixture. Line a pie-dish with puff-paste ; spread 
some apricot jam at the bottom ; then pour the mix- 
ture into the dish. Strew some chopped almonds 
on the top, and bake in the oven for about half an 
hour, or until it is well risen and of a nice brown 
colour. Serve either hot or cold. 



Friar's Omelette* 

Stew twelve apples with a quarter of a pound of 
sugar and the same of fresh butter ; rub through a 
wire-sieve, and add four eggs well beaten ; pour the 
mixture into a pie-dish which has been rubbed with 
butter, and thickly strewed with bread-crumbs ; then 
bake it and turn it out on a dish. Sprinkle sugar on 
the top, and serve hot. 



Apple Marmalade. 

To a pint of water add twelve ounces of loaf-sugar ; 
boil till quite a syrup ; pare and core two pounds of 
apples ; add them to the syrup with the grated rind 
of a lemon ; boil all together till quite stiff and 
transparent. Just before it is sufficiently done, add 
the juice of a lemon ; boil and stir it over the fire 
until it is quite stiff, then pour it into a mould. 
When cold and firm, turn it out on a dish. Blanch 
one ounce of sweet almonds ; cut them in thin chips 



204 PUDDINGS. 

like straws, and stick them all over the shape of 
apple marmalade. Pour custard round the base, 
and serve. 

Meringues. 

Whisk the whites of nine very fresh eggs to a snow; 
sprinkle over them an ounce of pounded sugar, and 
whisk a little longer until they are very light and 
firm ; then mix in lightly one pound of pounded 
white sugar. Take a baking -sheet, and grease it 
very slightly with fresh butter, and dust it all over 
with sugar ; put this mixture into a paper coronet 
Drop, the meringues through it in the form of a 
twisted shell. When all the mixture has been 
formed into meringues^ place them in a very slow 
oven, and bake to a light-fawn colour. When done, 
they must be carefully removed off the sheet ; the 
white part of the inside must be scooped out with 
a teaspoon, and then nicely smoothed over. They 
must then be placed on their sides on the baking- 
sheet, and put back into the oven to dry. When 
about to send the meringues to table, whip up some 
thick cream, season it with a little pounded sugar 
and a few drops of the essence of vanilla, ratafia, or 
liqueur of any sort. Put a spoonful of this cream 
into each piece ; join two together. Dish them up 
in a pyramid on a napkin, and serve. 

Turban of Meringues. 

Make a m£ringue mixture of the whites of five 
eggs and half a pound of pounded sugar, as directed 
above. Drop them from a teaspoon upon bands of 



PUDDINGS. 205 

foolscap paper and place them on boards. Bake them 
in a cool oven, keeping them quite white, and drying 
them thoroughly. When cold, wet the paper under- 
neath, and take off the meringues; dry them a second 
time ; put some of the icing in a paper-coronet and 
form a ring of it on the board ; put a row of mer- 
ingues on their ends round the ring, and allow it to 
dry. Have a little icing thinner than the last ; dip 
one end of the remaining meringues into it, and then 
into chopped pistachios ; form another row upon the 
first ; dry it till set ; and when ready to serve, fill 
the interior with whipped cream, flavoured with 
orange liqueur and a little sugar. Sprinkle chop- 
ped pistachios on the top. 

Icing for Cakes. 

Beat the whites of four eggs with one pound of 
icing sugar, a few drops of tartaric acid, and about 
the size of a pin's-head of indigo blue. Beat till very 
light ; then ice and ornament the cakes. 

Compote of Apples. 

Peel and scoop out the cores from about a dozen 
of apples. Place them in a stew-pan, and cover 
them with syrup ; add the juice and rind of a lemon, 
a stick of cinnamon, and six cloves ; then cover 
with paper, and simmer very gently until they are 
soft* Then remove them from the pan, and reduce 
the syrup to half its original quantity ; strain, and 
pour it over the apples. When about to dish the 
compote^ place one in the centre, and surround it 



2o6 PUDDINGS. 

* 
with the others. Decorate their surfaces with light 
designs cut out from preserved cucumbers or angel- 
ica and bright jelly dissolved, and put into plates. 
When firm, cut out circular sheets and place one on 
each apple. 

Pears are used for making compotes. Follow, in 
all .particulars, the directions for making compotes 
of apples. 

Syrup for above. 

To three pounds of fine loaf-sugar add a quart of 
cold water and the white of an ^^^, Whisk all to- 
gether in a stew-pan, and set it to boil gently for 
about five minutes, adding occasionally a spoonful 
of cold water. Then strain it through a piece of 
linen into a basin for use. 



Compote of Apricots, 

Peel the apricots and put them into a stew-pan 
with syrup ; simmer them about five minutes over 
the fire ; then drain them, and place them in a 
disL Reduce the syrup, and pour it over the fruit 



Compote of Chestnuts 

, Boil about forty chestnuts in a quart of milk, with 
half a pint of water. When tender, skin them and 
put them in a mortar. Put half a pound of white 
sugar into a small pan with a teacupful of water. 
Boil it till it pearls, then pour it over the chestnuts 
in the mortar ; pound them to a smooth paste. File 



PUDDINGS. 207 

up half a pint of whipped cream in the centre of a 
dish. Place a coarse wire-sieve over the dish, and 
rub the pounded chestnuts through the sieve on to 
the cream, keeping it high in the centre. Boil three 
oranges in water for half an hour; then put the rind, 
juice, and pulp into a pan ; add the same weight of 
sugar, with a spoonful of maraschino; boil for ten 
minutes. When cold, put it round the chestnuts and 
serve. 

Compote of Cherries, 

Take large ripe cherries, all of a size. Place them 
in a brass pan ; cover them with syrup, and simmer 
them about five minutes. The half of the stalks 
should be cut off. When done, dish them with their 
stalks upright Reduce the syrup, and pour it round 
the cherries. Serve cold. 



Compote of Peaches, 

Divide the peaches in halves ; simmer them with 
a little syrup for about eight minutes ; then drain 
them ; dish in a circle in the centre of a dish, with 
whipped cream. Reduce the syrup with a little 
raspberry-juice, and pour it round the base. 

Nougat of Apricot. 

Make half a pound of puff-paste, and roll it out 
to the thickness of a half-crown; bake it, and 
allow it to become cold ; spread apricot jam over it 
an inch in thickness. Have in readiness, finely chop- 



2o8 PUDDINGS. 

ped and well dried, half a pound of sweet almonds, 
with half a pound of pounded sugar, and mix with 
the whites of three eggs, previously beat to a snow. 
Spread it all over the jam, and put it in the oven to 
become firm and slightly browned. When cold, cut 
it into pieces and dish on a napkin. 



JELLIES. 



CalfS'Feet Jelly. 

Clean and cut into pieces four calves' feet; put 
them to boil in a gallon of cold water ; boil gently 
for four or five hours, until the water is reduced to 
half its former, quantity. Then strain the stock 
through a tammy or hair -sieve into a basin, and 
when it has become cold and set firm into a jelly, 
scrape off all the grease ; wash the surface of the 
stock with a little hot water, and dab it over with a 
clean cloth. Then put the stock into a brass pan 
with two pounds of lump-sugar, the juice and rinds 
of six lemons, half an ounce of whole cinnamon, 
twelve cloves, and twenty pepper-corns. Set the 
pan on the fire to dissolve the jelly, and then add 
the whites of six eggs, well whisked, with half a pint 
of water, and also the shells of eggs. Stir the jelly 
until it boils ; then add a pint of sherry wine ; allow 
it to boil again ; and then pour it into a jelly-bag, 
previously wrung out of boiling water. Place a basin 
under the jelly-stand to receive the jelly as it passes 
through the bag ; return the jelly through the bag 
until it passes quite bright and clear. Then fill the 

O 



210 JELLIES. 

shape previously wet with cold water. When a shape 
is wanted, dip it in warm water, and turn it out on a 
silver or crystal dish. 

When the jelly is required to be kept for a time, 
ox -feet may be used instead of calves' feet, with 
the addition of a large glassful of brandy. Put it 
into bottles, and cork to exclude the air. 



Wine Jelly. 

m 

Soak two ounces of gelatine in a pint of cold 
water for twenty minutes ; then put it into a brass 
pan ; add an English quart of boiling water, about 
ten ounces of lump-sugar, the rind and juice of two 
lemons, eight cloves, twelve black pepper-corns, a 
stick of cinnamon broken into pieces, two eggs 
beaten with their shells in a teacupful of cold water. 
Mix all well together ; place the pan on the stove 
or clear fire ; stir until it boils, then add three- 
quarters of a pint of Madeira or sherry wine. Pour 
through a jelly-bag previously wrung out of boiling 
water. Return the jelly to the bag until it is quite 
clear and bright ; then pour it into shapes ; put 
them away in a cool place to firm. When wanted, 
dip the shape in tepid water and turn it out on its 
dish. 

Champagne Jelly. 

Soak one ounce and a half of gelatine in half a 
pint of cold water for fifteen minutes ; then add the 
juice and rind of one lemon, two ounces of pounded 
sugar, and the white of an egg. Whisk all together 
over the fire until it boils. Add a spoonful of cold 



JELLIES. 211 

water ; set it by the side of the fire for about five 
minutes ; then strain it through a piece of thick 
muslin previously wrung out of hot water. Put the 
gelatine into a basin ; pour a quart of champagne 
over the gelatine, and pour into a shape. When 
set firm, dip the shape in tepid water and turn it 
out on its dish 

Claret Jelly. 

Soak one ounce of gelatine in half a pint of water 
for twenty minutes ; then put it into a brass pan, 
and add a quart of claret, one pound of white sugar, 
the rind and juice of one large lemon or two small 
Ones, and a teaspoonful of red-currant or raspberry 
jelly. Mix well together; then set the pan on a 
slow fire, and stir the jelly until it is nearly boil- 
ing ; then strain through muslin into a basin ; add 
a glass of brandy and stir it till nearly cold ; then 
pour it into a mould. When set, turn it out. 

Russian Jelly. 

The remainder of a broken shape of jelly will serve 
this purpose. Put the jelly in a basin ; place the 
basin in a pan of hot water. When the jelly is dis- 
solved, pour some of it into a mould, and allow it to 
firm. Whip up the remainder of it into a froth, and 
put all into a mould. When set firm, turn it out 
upon a dish, and serve. 

Maraschino Jelly, 

To one pint of clarified syrup add a wine-glassful 
of maraschino, one ounce of clarified gelatine, and 



212 JELLIES. 

the juice of a lemon. Mix all together, and pour 
into a jelly-mouId. Set on ice or in a cool place to 
firm. When wanted, turn it out upon a dish, and 
serve. 

To Clarify Gelatine. 

Soak one ounce of gelatine in one pint of cold 
water for fifteen minutes ; then pour it into a pan, 
and add the juice of half a lemon, and about half 
an ounce of white sugar. Stir it all together, and 
boil for about twenty minutes. Skim and strain it 
through muslin previously wrung out of hot water. 
It is then ready for use. 

Rum Jelly. 

Soak an ounce of gelatine in a pint of cold water; 
add half a pound of sugar, the rind and juice of 
three lemons, half a stick of cinnamon, eight cloves, 
ten pepper-corns, a little grated nutmeg, and a gill 
and a half of rum. Whisk all well together. Pour 
it into a brass pan, and stir it over the fire until it 
boils. Allow it to boil gently for a few minutes ; 
pour the jelly through the bag several times until it 
runs bright When all has run through, add a glass- 
ful of brandy, and pour the jelly into moulds. Set 
them on rough ice or in a cold place to firm. 

Clear Orange Jelly, 

Soak one ounce of gelatine in an English pint of 
cold water ; add the juice of eight sweet oranges, 
half a pound of lump-sugar, the whites and shells of 



JELLIES. 213 

three eggs. Whisk all well together in a brass pan, 
and stir it on the fire until it boils for a few minutes ; 
then pour it through a jelly-bag; return it to the 
bag until it runs perfectly clear. Pour it into a 
mould, and when set, turn it out upon its dish. 

Thick Orange Jelly is prepared in the same 
manner, but without the use of eggs ; and when the 
oranges are very sweet, a few bitter oranges may be 
used. 

Oranges filled with Jelly. 

Cut the oranges in halves ; with the handle of a 
teaspoon work out all the juice and fibres of the 
fruit ; then soak the skins in cold water for an hour. 
Drain them upside down upon a sieve. Pound some 
rough ice, and place it in a deep dish, and arrange 
the skins upon it, taking care to stop up any hole 
with bits of butter. Fill one-half of the skins with 
jelly, coloured pale pink with two or three drops of 
cochineal, and the remainder with white. When the 
jelly is set firm in the oranges, they must be wiped 
with a napkin. Cut them in quarters with a sharp 
knife, and build them up on a silver or crystal dish, 
with small geranium-leaves between each quarter. 

Lemon Jelly. 

Soak one ounce of gelatine in half a pint of cold 
water for fifteen minutes ; then pour in one pint of 
boiling water, and put it into a brass pan ; add half 
a pound of lump-sugar, the rind and juice of four 
lemons, the whites of three eggs, whipped, with a gill 
of cold water. Mix all together, and whisk the jelly 



214 JELLIES. 

on the fire until it boils for three minutes. Then 
pour it through the jelly-bag, and when it runs clear, 
pour it into a mould, and set it on rough ice or in a 
cool place to firm. 

Vanilla Jelly 

Cut two vanilla pods in pieces, and pour over them 
a quart of boiling water ; soak two ounces of gela- 
tine in a pint of cold water for twenty minutes, then 
pour over it a pint of boiling water. Pour the whole 
into a brass pan, and add three-quarters of a pound 
of sugar, the juice of two lemons, and two oranges, 
with the peel' cut very thin, the whites of four eggs 
(well beat) and their shells. Set the pan on a slow 
fire or stove, and stir the jelly until it boils, then 
pour it through a jelly-bag ; return it to the bag until 
it runs clear. Pour the jelly into a mould which has 
been ornamented with strawberries or dried fruits. 



Cherry Jelly, 

Pound in a mortar two pounds of ripe cherries, 
with one pound of red currants. Add half a pint of 
syrup, and strain it through thick muslin ; then add 
one ounce of prepared gelatine. Mix all well together, 
and pour it into a mould. When set, turn out on a 
dish. 

Strawberry Jelly. 

Put one pint of strawberry-juice into a brass pan, 
with one pint of cold water, one wine-glassful of rasp- 
berry-juice, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, the 



JELLIES. 215 

juice of a lemon, and one ounce of prepared gelatine. 
Mix all together. Stir it on the fire until it boils ; 
then pour it through a jelly-bag, and put it into a 
mould. When set, turn it out 



Grape Jelly. 

Pound two pounds of ripe grapes in a mortar; add 
the juice of two lemons ; then strain it through a 
flannel bag, and mix with one pint of syrup and one 
ounce of prepared gelatine, and pour into a mould. 
When set, turn it out Peach and apricot jelly is 
made in the same manner, without the use of lemons. 

Lemon Sponge. 

Soak one ounce of gelatine in half a pint of cold 
water for fifteen minutes ; then add a pint of boiling 
water. When cool, add half a pound of sugar, the 
juice of three lemons, and the whites of two eggs. 
Whisk it for half an hour ; pour it into a shape. 
When dished, pour custard round it 

Solution to firm Jelly. 

Dissolve one pound of salt with an ounce of salt- 
petre in a quart of spring water. Place the jelly- 
mould in the solution to firm. 



CREAMS. 



Velvet Cream. 

Season a pint and a half of sweet cream with 
pounded sugar to taste, then add a wine-glassful of 
maraschino or rum ; or season with a few drops of 
the essence of vanilla. Mix in one ounce of dissolved 
gelatine — stir the cream all the time ; then pour it 
into a mould previously wet with cold water. Set it 
in a cool place to firm. When wanted, turn it out 
upon a dish. 

Peach Cream. 

Skin and extract the stones from about a dozen 
ripe peaches ; to these add half a pound of white 
sugar and half a pint of cold water. Stew the whole 
on the fire until the fruit is entirely dissolved, and 
then rub this pulp through a hair-sieve into a basin. 
Add a pint of whipped cream, an ounce of dissolved 
gelatine, and a few drops of cochineal. Mix all well 
together, and pour the mixture into a mould that 
has been previously wet with cold water. When firm, 
turn it out upon its dish. 



CREAMS. 217 

Apricot Cream. 

Skin and extract the stones from about a dozen 
ripe apricots. Crack the stones, extract their kernels, 
and put them, with the apricots, in a pan, with six 
ounces of white sugar and half a pint of water. Stir 
them on the fire until the fruit is dissolved. Rub 
through a hair-sieve into a basin ; add a pint of 
whipped cream and an ounce of dissolved gelatine. 

Raspberry Cream. 

Put about a pint of raspberries into a basin ; add 
six ounces of pounded sugar and a few drops of 
cochineal ; then rub through a hair-sieve into a basin ; 
add a pint of whipped cream and half an ounce of 
dissolved gelatine. Mix it well, and pour it into a 
mould. Set it away upon ice or in a cool place to 
firm. When wanted, turn out and serve. 

Strawberry Cream is made the same as above, 
by substituting strawberries for raspberries ; and 
when fresh fruits cannot be had, jam may be used 
instead. 

Orange Cream. 

Boil three sweet oranges in water for one hour. 
Cut thfem in halves, and pass the juice and pulp 
through a hair-sieve ; add about half a pound of 
pounded white sugar ; beat up the yolks of three 
eggs and add to the orange pulp, with one table- 
spoonful of brandy. Boil one pint of cream, and 
pour it over the other ingredients ; stir the mixture 
all the time. Add one ounce of dissolved gel- 



2^8^ CREAMS. 

atine, and stir till nearly cold ; then pour the mix- 
ture into a mould, and put away in a cool place to 
firm. When wanted, turn it out 

Apple Cream. 

Whip a pint of cream and flavour with half a 
pound of apples which have been stewed with sugar 
and rubbed through a sieve, and allowed to become 
cold ; add half an ounce of dissolved gelatine ; mix 
all together, and pour it into a mould. When firm, 
turn it out and pour sauce round it, made with two 
spoonfuls of apricot jam, two of boiling water, and 
two of sherry wine, all mixed together, and rubbed 
through a sieve. 

Coffee Cream, 

Put about a breakfast-cupful of strong coffee into 
a pan with half a pint of boiled cream and half a 
pound of sugar. Beat up the yolks of six eggs ; to 
these add a pinch of salt; whisk the whole well 
together. Place the pan on the stove over a sIqw 
fire ; keep stirring till it thickens and is nearly boil- 
ing; pass it through a hair-sieve into a basin ; then 
add half an ounce of dissolved gelatine, and stir 
until it is nearly cold. Pour it into a mould, and 
when set firm, turn it out 

Chocolate Cream. 

Grate three ounces of chocolate, and put it into a 
pan with half a pint of new milk and about three 
ounces of sugar ; stir it over the fire until it boils, 
and pour it over the yolks of three eggs, previously 



CREAMS. 219 

well beaten ; strain it through a hair-sieve into a 
basin ; allow it to cool a little ; then add one pint 
of cream and half an ounce of dissolved gelatine ; 
whisk it for a few minutes, and pour it into a mould. 
When set, turn it out and serve. 

Italian Cream. 

Whisk a pint of rich cream and season it with 
sugar ; add the juice of half a lemon and one glass- 
ful of Curagoa, with half an ounce of dissolved gela- 
tine. Pour it into a mould. 



Blancmange. 

Soak one ounce of gelatine in half a pint of new 
milk for about twenty minutes ; then put it into a 
brass pan with one pint of milk and half a pint of 
cream, and four ounces of sugar, two bay-leaves, and 
a stick of cinnamon. Place the pan on the stove, 
and stir until it boils ; strain it through a piece of 
thick muslin. Stir it occasionally until it is nearly 
cold ; then pour it into a mould, and when set, turn 
it out 

Rice Cream. 

Whip a pint of cream till light ; add a little sugar 
and two spoonfuls of rice which has been boiled in 
water seasoned with sugar ; mix in half an ounce of 
dissolved gelatine; stir the mixture for a few minutes 
and pour it into a casserole mould. Procure a pint of 
strawberries, and put one-half of the best into a bowl ; 
boil the rest with sugar, and pour the juice over the 



230 CREAMS. 

strawberries that are in the bowl. When cold, boil 
the fruit for one minute and skim it ; allow it to be- 
come thoroughly cold, and set it on ice, but not to 
freeze. When about to serve, turn out the cream on 
its dish and pour the strawberries into the centre. 
Have no juice outside the shape until it is broken at 
table. 

Blancmange with Jelly. 

Fill a casserole shape with blancmange, and 
allow it to firm ; dip the shape in tepid water and 
turn it out on, a dish. Fill the centre with jelly pre- 
viously moulded in small egg-cups 

Custard in Cups, 

Put a pint of milk and half a pint of sweet 
cream into a pan, with four ounces of white sugar, 
a stick of cinnamon, two bay -leaves, and two 
ounces of flour of rice. Stir the whole on the fire 
until it boils ; pour it over five eggs, previously well 
beaten ; strain, and return it to the pan ; place it 
upon the stove, stirring all the time until it is nearly 
boiling. When cold, add a glassful of sherry wine, 
and pour it into custard-cups. 

Ginger Blancmange. 

Make a custard of a quart of milk and the yolks 
of four eggs, with ginger and sugar to taste. When 
cold, add the whites of the eggs, previously beat to 
a snow, and an ounce of dissolved gelatine. When 
firm, turn it out and pour ginger syrup round it. 



ICES. 



Arrowroot Pudding, Iced. 

Mix together six ounces of arrowroot, one pint of 
milk, ten ounces of sugar, the juice of one lemon, 
and half a gill of brandy. Stir the whole on the 
fire until it boils and becomes thick ; then remove 
the pan from the fire, and mix in the yolks of ten 
eggs, previously well beaten ; when thoroughly cold, 
mix in lightly the whites of the eggs, previously 
beaten to a snow. Pour the mixture into the freez- 
ing-pot in its pail, well surrounded with rough ice 
mixed with salt and a little saltpetre. Work the 
freezer round with the hand for about ten minutes, 
and then detach the set ice from the sides. Continue 
freezing and working the ice with the spattle, until 
it forms a stiff, smooth, compact body. It may 
then be put into the mould, previously ornamented 
with strips of angelica and orange-peel. The mould 
must then be embedded in ice mixed with salt, until 
it is time to dish it. When wanted, remove it from 
the ice and wipe the mould ; dip it in cold water 
for about a minute ; wipe it ; then turn the pudding 
out on its dish. 



222 ICES. 

Custard Puddings Iced. 

Make a good custard, and when cold pour it into 
the freezing - pot in its pail, well surrounded with 
broken ice mixed with salt and a little saltpetre. 
Freeze it in the usual manner ; add some crystallised 
cherries. Put the pudding into an ice pudding- 
mould, and embed it in ice for three or four hours. 
When wanted, turn it out upon its dish. 

Iced Souffle. 

Put half a pint of cold water into a deep stew-pan 
with the yolks of ten eggs ; place the pan in a basin 
of hot water ; whisk them until they become light 
and hot, then over ice till cold. Mix in a pint of 
whipped cream, half a pint of syrup, and flavour 
with vanilla, chocolate, or liqueur of any sort If 
flavoured with liqueur, soak some pieces of sponge- 
cake in wine and place them at the bottom of 
the souffl^'dishy and pour the mixture into it ; sur- 
round with a band of paper two inches higher 
than the dish ; fasten with pins. The souffle must 
be set in a freezing cave, and the cave covered over. 
Bury the whole in ice, mixed with salt and a little 
saltpetre, for five or six hours. When about to send 
to table, strew some bruised ratafia biscuits over the 
top. Remove the band of paper which runs round 
it, and dish up on a napkin. 

Cream Souffld^ Iced, 

Whip up one pint of thick cream till light ; add a 
wine-glassful of syrup ; beat the whites of four eggs 



ICES. 223 

to a snow, and mix them lightly with the cream. 
Then pour into a j^«^/-dish ; surround with a band 
of paper two inches higher than the dish. It must 
be buried in ice and freezing salt for about five or 
SIX hours. 

When a freezing cave is not to be had, substitute 
a pan with a close cover that will just hold the 
souffle. Rub the inside edge and bottom of the pan 
slightly with butter, to prevent the cover and souffl^- 
dish sticking to the pan. When about to send it to 
table, strew ratafia biscuit powder on the surface of 
the souffli. Remove the band of paper which runs 
round, and dish up on a napkin. 

Iced Coffee. 

Put one gallon of cold water into a copper pan ; half 
a pound of coffee, half a pound of lump-sugar, and 
the whites of two eggs. Mix well together ; place 
the pan on the stove or slow fire, and bring it gently 
to the boil. Strain it through a napkin. When cold, 
add one pint of milk that has been boiled, and 
half a pint of rich cream ; then pour it into the 
freezer, which has a cover, and freeze with plenty of 
rough ice and salt for about four hours. Stir it from 
the sides every half-hour. 

Coffee Cream Ice, 

Beat up the yolks of six eggs ; add a large cupful 
of strong coffee, a pint of boiled milk, and about six 
ounces of sugar ; stir over the fire until it thickens, 
and then strain it through a hair-sieve into a basin. 



224 ICES. 

Add half a pint of rich cream. When cold, freeze 
and mould the ice. 

« 

Chocolate Cream Ice. 

Boil four ounces of chocolate in half a pint of 
sweet milk. Sweeten with sugar ; then add one 
pint of cream ; mix well together. Freeze and 
mould the ice. 

Brown Bread Ice, 

Toast a slice of brown bread and rub it through a 
wire-sieve ; mix it with a pint of cream slightly- 
sweetened with sugar, and flavoured with maraschino 
or sherry wine. Freeze and mould it in the usual 
manner. 

Raspberry Cream Ice 

Bruise a pound of raspberries and half a pound of 
red currants, with half a pound of loaf-sugar. Stir 
it in a pan on the fire until it boils ; then rub the 
whole through a hair-sieve. When cold, mix it with 
a pint of cream. Freeze and mould the ice. 

Grape Water Ice 

Bruise one pound of fresh grapes ; to these add 
one quart of cold water, the juice of two lemons, and 
half a pint of syrup. Mix it well, and strain through 
a hair-sieve. Pour the mixture into the freezing- 
pot ; place it in its pail and surround it with plenty 
of rough broken ice, with salt, and freeze in the usual 
manner. Fill the mould and bury it in ice. When 



ICES. 225 

wanted, remove it from the ice, dip it in cold water, 
and lift off the ends of the mould. Push the ice out 
on the dish. 

Biscuits Glacis, 

Make a custard of the yolks of six eggs and three- 
quarters of a pint of milk ; when quite cold add a 
quarter of a pint of whipped cream, the whites of two 
eggs beat to a snow, and three small sponge-cakes cut 
into pieces ; season with liqueur. Have in readiness 
small paper-cases ; place them in a flat tin box ; fill 
them with the mixture and put the lid on the box, 
which must close very tight ; then bury in ice with 
salt for six hours. 

Cherry Water Ice. 

Bruise about a pound and a half of ripe cherries 
in a mortar, and put them into a pan with about five 
ounces of sugar. Boil for a few minutes, and rub 
through a sieve into a basin ; then add a pint of 
syrup and half a pint of cold water. Freeze and 
mould the ice. 



Raspberry Water Ice. 

Bruise one pound of raspberries and half a pound 
of red currants ; add four ounces of sugar and a 
gill of cold water ; pour it into a pan, and stir it over 
the fire until it boils. Strain it through a hair-sieve 
into a basin. Add a pint of syrup, and freeze in the 
usual manner. 

P 



226 ICES. 

Strawberry Water Ice is made the same as 
above by substituting strawberries for raspberries. 



Orange Water Ice, 

To the juice of six oranges and two lemons add 
the rinds of three oranges rubbed with sugar, one 
pint of syrup, and half a pint of cold water. Mix 
all together, and strain through a hair-sieve. Then 
freeze it 

Lemon Water Ice. 

The juice of eight lemons, the rubbed rind of two, 
a pint of syrup, and a gill of cold water. Mix and 
freeze in the usual manner. 

Note. — Bear in mind that while ices are being 
frozen they must be frequently Well worked with 
the spattle, to render them smooth and give them 
consistency. 

Roman Punch. 

Dissolve one pound of loaf-sugar in three-quarters 
of a pint of water ; add half a pint of lemon-juice, 
with the rind of one lemon rubbed on sugar. Strain 
the mixture and freeze it well ; add to it the whites 
of eight eggs previously beat to a snow, and half a 
pound of finely pounded sugar, half a teacupful of 
strong green tea, one wine-glassful of maraschino, 
two of rum, and three of brandy. Mix all well to- 
gether, and just before it is served add a bottle of 
champagne. 



ICES. 227 

Pine- Apple Water Ice, 

Pound in a mortar one pound of pine-apple ; add 
one pint of syrup and a gill of cold water. Rub 
through a hair-sieve ; pour into the freezing-pot, and 
freeze in the usual manner. Then mould it, and em- 
bed it in rough ice with salt. When wanted, turn it 
out as directed for Grape Water Ice. 



CAKES AND BISCUITS. 



Plum Cake, 

Ingredients required. — One pound and a half 
of flour, one pound and a half of sultana raisins, one 
pound of sugar, one dozen of eggs, and one pound 
of butter. 

Place the butter and sugar in a large basin, and 
work it with a wooden spoon until it presents the 
appearance of a creamy substance. Then add two 
eggs, and beat for five minutes ; then other two, and 
so on until six have been added ; shake in a hand- 
ful of flour, and beat in the other six eggs the same 
way as the first. Add the flour and the raisins. A 
tin shape is required for baking it in. Its inside 
must be slightly buttered, and several folds of strong 
paper placed on the bottom and inside of the tin. 
Then brush it over with dissolved butter, and dust it 
with pounded sugar and a little flour. Pour in the 
mixture," and bake in a moderately heated oven for 
about two hours. 

Seed Cuke, 

Ingredients. — Three-quarters of a pound of 
flour, half a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, 



CAKES AND BISCUITS. 229 

half a pound of raisins, half a pound of lemon 
and orange peel, two ounces of almonds, and four 

eggs. 

Put the butter and sugar into a basin ; work it 
with a wooden spoon until it presents the appear- 
ance of thick cream. Then add two eggs, and beat 
the mixture for five minutes ; then the other two 
eggs, and beat a little longer. Add the flour grad- 
ually, and the fruits. Butter and paper the inside 
of a cake-tin ; put the mixture into the tin, and 
bake for about an hour and a half in a moderately- 
heated oven. 

Benekerry Cake, 

Ingredients. — Three pounds of currants, one 
pound and a quarter of flour, one pound of butter, 
one pound of citron-peel, ten eggs, and one glassful 
of whisky. 

Put the butter and sugar into a basin, and beat 
to a cream ; then add two eggs, and beat for five 
minutes; then other two, and so on till ten have 
been added. Add the flour, then the currants, pre- 
viously washed in cold water, and dried on a cloth 
before the fire. Mince the citron-peel, and add it 
to the other ingredients ; then pour in the whisky. 
Butter the tin slightly. Put several folds of paper 
at the bottom and round the sides of the tin ; dust 
it with a little sugar and flour; then put in the 
mixture, and bake in a sharp oven for about three 
hours. Put a piece of folded paper on the top to 
prevent it from burning. 



230 CAKES AND BISCUITS. 

Diet Loaves. 
Ingredients. — Six ounces of flour, four ounces 

of pounded sugar, and nine eggs. 

Put the yolks in a basin, and the whites in a brass 
or copper pan. Add the sugar to the yolks, and 
beat till very light ; whisk the whites to a snow. 
Add a little of the flour to the yolks, and a little of 
the whites of eggs, alternately, until the whole has 
been mixed. Line three square tins with paper, 
previously brushed over with dissolved butter and 
sprinkled with sugar ; pour in the mixture in equal 
quantities. Put two thin slices of citron-peel on the 
top of each, and bake in a slow oven for half an 
hour. 

Savoy Cake. 

Ingredients. — One pound of flour, one pound 
of fine pounded sugar, and one dozen of eggs. 

Put the eggs and sugar into a brass pan ; beat up 
over a stove till very light and white ; remove the 
pan from the stove, and beat till cold ; then mix in 
the flour. Grease a mould with dissolved butter, 
and dust the inside with sugar and flour. Pour in 
the mixture, and bake for about half an hour in a 
slow oven. 

Rice Cake. 

Ingredients. — Half a pound of flour, half a 
pound of sugar, six ounces of butter, four ounces of 
rice-flour, six eggs, and a few drops of ratafia. 

Put the sugar and butter into a basin, and beat to 
a cream ; then add the eggs, one by one, beating 
five minutes between each. Mix the flour and rice- 



CAKES AND BISCUITS. 231 

flour, together, and add to the other ingredients 
with a few drops of ratafia. Pour the mixture into 
a prepared tin, and bake in a slow oven for about 
three-quarters of an hour. 

Phantasy Cake. 

Ingredients. — One pound and three-quarters of 
flour, one pound butter, one pound sugar, one half- 
pound citron-peel, one dozen eggs, and a glassful 
of brandy. 

Put the butter and sugar into a basin, and beat 
to a cream ; add two eggs, and beat for five min- 
utes ; then other two, and keep beating until six 
have been added ; shake in a handful of flour, and 
add the remaining six eggs. Then mix in the 
whole of the flour, with the citron-peel chopped fine, 
and half a pound of sweet almonds, skinned and 
chopped, a glassful of brandy, and two tea-spoon- 
fuls of baking-powder ; mix well, and put the mix- 
ture into a cake-tin, previously lined inside with 
paper, slightly brushed with dissolved butter and 
dusted with sugar. Bake in a moderate oven for 
about three hours. 

Madeira Cake. 

Ingredients. — Twelve ounces of fresh butter, 
the same weight of pounded sugar, one pound and 
a quarter of flour, and a dozen of eggs. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the 
eggs, two at a time, beating a few minutes between 
each two. Mix in the flour, and season with a few 



23? CAKES AND BISCUITS. 

drops of the essence of lemon. Pour the mixture 
into a prepared tin and bake in a moderate oven for 
about an hour and a half. 



Sultana Cake, 

Ingredients. — One pound of butter, one pound 
of sugar, twelve eggs, one pound and a half of flour, 
two pounds of sultana raisins. 

Put the butter and sugar into a basin ; beat it 
with a spoon for about half an hour ; add two eggs, 
and beat for five minutes ; then other two, and so 
on until six have been added. Then add a handful 
of flour and the other six eggs ; keep beating the 
mixture all the time. Mix in the flour and raisins ; 
then bake in a moderate oven for about two hours. 

Note. — The finest flour, dried in an oven, or be- 
fore the fire, and passed through a hair-sieve, should 
always be used for cakes and biscuits. Pounded 
white sugar and very fresh eggs should also be used. 

Petticoat-Tails. 

Ingredients. — One pound of flour, six ounces 
of butter, and six ounces of sugar. 

Rub the butter into the flour, then the sugar, a 
pinch of salt, and a little water, and work it into a 
smooth dough. Divide it into two ; roll it out into 
two round cakes about the size of a dinner-plate. 
Cut a round cake from the centre of each (with a 
cutter), four inches in diameter; then divide the 
outside into six. Prickle on the top, and bake in a 
moderate oven for about twenty minutes. 



CAKES AND BISCUITS. 233 

Vinegar Cake. 

Ingredients. — One pound of flour, half a pound 
of sugar, six ounces of butter, four eggs, two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar, and a teaspoonful of carbonate 
of soda. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; drop in an 
Gg& and beat for five minutes; then another, and 
so on until the four have been added. Pour in half 
a pint of milk, and the carbonate of soda mixed 
with the vinegar, and half a pound of currants. 
Mix the whole of the ingredients together ; put it 
into a prepared cake-tin, and bake in a moderate 
oven for about an hour and a half. 

Snow Cake. 

Ingredients. — Half a pound of butter, half a 
pound of sugar, half a pound of flour, the same of 
potato fecula, six eggs, and a teaspoonful of baking- 
powder. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; then add 
the eggs one by one. Beat five minutes between 
each egg ; mix in the flour and potato fecula ; then 
the powder. Prepare a mould and pour in the cake. 
Bake it for about an hour and a half. 

Scotch Bun, 

Ingredients. — Two pounds and a half of cur- 
rants, one pound and a half of patent flour, one 
pound and a quarter of sultana raisins, half a pound 
of orange-peel, six ounces of almonds, and six ounces 
of butter, with half a pint of milk. 



234 CAKES AND BISCUITS. 

Dissolve the butter and add it to the milk ; pour 
it among the flour ; make it into a dough ; then add 
the currants and raisins. Mince the orange-peel 
and almonds ; add them to the other ingredients. 
Put the mixture into a prepared cake-tin, and bake 
for about two hours in a moderate oveiL 



Patent Flour. 

To four pounds of flour add two ounces of cream- 
of-tartar and one ounce of carbonate of soda. Mix 
together. 

Note. — It will also make nice scones, with the 
addition of an ounce and a half of butter and the 
same of sugar, and a little milk. 

Soda Cake, 

Ingredients. — One pound of flour, half a pound 
of butter, half a pound of sugar, two eggs, a few car- 
away-seeds, and a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. 

Put the butter and sugar into a basin ; beat it with 
a wooden spoon for about twenty minutes ; add the 
eggs, and beat a little longer ; then mix in the flour, 
caraway-seeds, and soda. Put the mixture into a 
prepared tin, and bake for about an hour and a half. 

Arrowroot Cake. 

Ingredients. — One pound of arrowroot, half a 
pound of butter, three ounces of sugar, two eggs, 
and a small glassful of brandy. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the 



CAKES AND BISCUITS. 235 

eggs, and beat a little longer ; mix in the arrowroot, 
then the brandy ; stir it up lightly, and put it into a 
prepared tin. Bake in a moderate oven about an 
hour and a quarter. 

Note. — Biscuits may be made from the same 
preparation as above. Butter a baking-sheet very 
slightly; dust it with sugar; put teaspoonfuls of 
the mixture on the sheet, about an inch distant 
from each other. When the sheet is full, place it 
in the oven to bake for about ten minutes. When 
the biscuits are of a light-fawn colour, remove the 
sheet from the oven and lift the biscuits carefully 
off with a knife. 



Sponge Cake. 

Ingredients. — Half a pound of sugar, eight 
eggs, and half a pound of flour. 

Beat the whites to a snow ; add the yolks to the 
sugar, and beat till light ; mix in the flour and the 
whites by degrees. Pour the mixture into a pre- 
pared tin, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Chocolate Cake. 

Ingredients. — One pound of butter, half a 
pound of sugar, half a pound of chocolate, six 
ounces of flour, four ounces of sweet almonds, and 
seven eggs. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the 
yolks of eggs well beaten, and the chocolate previ- 
ously grated and heated a little ; then the almonds 
pounded and rubbed through a wire-sieve. Add the 



236 CAKES AND BISCUITS. 

flour, the whites of the eggs, previously beaten to a 
snow, and half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. 
Pour the mixture into a prepared tin, and bake in 
a slow oven. 

, Small Sponge Cakes, 

Put four ounces of sugar into a pan with four 
eggs ; beat together over the stove till light and 
hot ; then beat it off the fire until cold. Mix in 
lightly four ounces of flour ; put the mixture into 
small pans, previously prepared, and bake in a slow 
oven for about ten minutes. 



Gingerbread Cake. 

Ingredients. — One pound and a half of flour, 
half a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, the 
same of treacle, orange-peel, three ounces of almonds, 
one ounce of ground ginger, a teaspoonful of carbon- 
ate of soda, the juice of one lemon, and six eggs. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the 
eggs, two at a time ; beat five minutes between each 
two. Next add the treacle, then the flour, orange- 
peel, almonds (minced small), lemon-juice, and car- 
bonate of soda. Put the mixture into a prepared 
tin, and bake in rather a slow oven for about three 
hours. 

Note — It is impossible to determine the exact 
length of time that this, or indeed any other cake, 
should remain in the oven before it is done. This 
will mainly depend upon the construction of the 
oven, and partly on the necessity there may be for 



CAKES AND BISCUITS. 237 

occasionally opening it during the process of baking 
the cake. The best way to ascertain whether the 
cake is done, is to run a skewer down the centre, 
and if, when withdrawn, the skewer is dry, and fre^ 
from any portion of the cake in an unbaked state, 
it will be safe to turn it out of the mould. 



Plain Gingerbread, 

Ingredients. — One pound and three-quarters of 
flour, one pound of treacle, four ounces of butter, 
three ounces of sugar, one and a half teaspoonful 
of carbonate of soda, the same of ground ginger and 
cinnamon, one of allspice and caraway-seed, two 
eggs, and about a pint of buttermilk. 

Heat the treacle and butter in a pan, and pour it 
among the flour ; then add the seasonings ; then 
pour in the buttermilk, and stir up the mixture. 
Beat the sugar and eggs together, and add to the 
other ingredients, and mix in the carbonate of soda. 
When well mixed, line three tin shapes with buttered 
paper ; put the mixture into them in equal quantities, 
and bake in a moderate oven. 



Plain Shortbread, 

For two pounds of flour add one pound of butter 
and six ounces of sugar. Mix together into a 
smooth dough; divide into the number of cakes 
required ; pinch round the edges, and prickle on 
the top ; ornament with comfits and strips of orange 
peel. Put a piece of double paper under each cake. 



238 CAKES AND BISCUITS. 

place them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a mode- 
rate oven. 

Note. — If liked, fruit may be added to the above 
ingredients, in the following proportions : four ounces 
of orange-peel, the same of almonds, and two ounces 
of citron-peel, all minced small ; with an ounce and 
a half of caraway-seeds. 



Small Rice Cakes. 

Ingredients. — ^The yolks of six eggs and the 
whites of two, six ounces of butter, the same of 
pounded sugar, eight ounces of ground rice, and two 
table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water, or the grated 
rind of a lemon. 

Beat the butter and sugar together in a basin for 
twenty minutes ; add the yolks, two at a time, until 
the whole are added ; then mix in the ground rice, 
and the orange -flower water. Whisk the whites 
to a snow, and mix them in lightly with the other 
ingredients. Rub the insides of some patty-pans 
with dissolved butter; dust them with sugar, and 
half fill them with the mixture. Bake the cakes in 
a quick oven. 

Passion Biscuits. 

Ingredients. — One pound of flour, two ounces 
of butter, a pinch of salt, and a little new milk. 

Rub the butter into the flour, then the salt 
Moisten with the milk. Put it into the mortar, and 
beat the paste for twenty minutes ; then cut it into 
pieces the size of walnuts. Roll into little balls; 



CAKES AND BISCUITS. 239 

then roll these pieces out as thin as a sixpence; 
prick them; then bake in a quick oven, watching 
them till of a light-brown colour. 



Arrowroot Biscuits. 

Ingredients. — Eight ounces of butter, the same 
of sugar, six ounces of flour, the same of patent flour, 
six ounces of arrowroot, and five eggs. 

Put the sugar and butter into a basin ; beat to 
a cream ; add the yolks of eggs by degrees, and 
beat till the mixture is very light Mix the flour, 
arrowroot, and patent flour together, and add it to 
the mixture. Whisk the whites of eggs to a snow, 
and mix in lightly with the other ingredients. Drop 
the mixture from the point of a table-spoon upon a 
prepared baking-sheet, and bake in a brisk oven for 
about ten minutes. 



Dean of Ripon's Biscuits, 

Ingredients. — Three-quarters of a pound of 
flour, half a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of 
butter, half an ounce of caraway-seeds, and a little 
cream. 

Mix the butter with the flour; then add the sugar 
and caraway-seeds. Moisten with a little cream, 
and work it into a firm dough ; then roll it Out as 
thin as a sixpence. Cut it in the shape of fingers 
or rounds, according to taste, and bake in a slow 
oven for about ten minutes. When done, they 
should be quite crisp, and of a light-fawn colour. 



240 CAKES AND BISCUITS. 

Queen Drops. 

Ingredients. — Nine ounces of sugar, eight 
ounces of butter, eight ounces of flour, six ounces 
of patent flour, seven eggs, and a few currants. 

Beat the butter and sugar together in a basin ; 
then add the yolks of eggs by degrees. When 
quite light, add the flour, patent flour, and currants. 
Mix in lightly the whites of eggs, previously 
whisked to a snow. Drop the mixture from the 
point of a table-spoon on to a prepared sheet, and 
bake for about ten minutes in a sharp oven. 

Chocolate Biscuits, 

Ingredients. — Four ounces of flour, the same 
of butter and of sugar, two and a half ounces of 
chocolate, the whites of two eggs, and the yolks of 
three. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; then add 
the yolks, and beat for twenty minutes; add the 
chocolate ; mix in the whites of eggs, previously 
whisked to a snow. Rub a baking-sheet with dis- 
solved lard ; cover it with white paper. It must 
also be brushed over with lard and sprinkled with 
sugar. Drop the mixture from a teaspoon on to 
the paper, and bake in a slow oven for about ten 
minutes. 

Ratafia Biscuits. 

Ingredients. — Two pounds of sugar, one pound 
of ground almonds, two ounces of rice-flour, nine 
whites of eggs. Beat to a snow and mix together. 



CAKES AND BISCUITS. 241 

Prepare the baking-sheets with greased paper, as 
for above. Put the mixture into a bag, and pipe ; 
and drop the biscuits on the paper, about the size 
of a shilling. Bake in a sIoav oven for about ten 

minutes. 

* 

Ginger Biscuits, 

Ingredients. — One pound of flour, twelve 
ounces of fresh butter, twelve ounces of pounded 
sugar, two ounces of ground ginger, and eight yolks 
of eggs. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the 
yolks by degrees, beating all the time ; then mix in 
the flour and ginger. Roll it out to the sixth part 
of an inch. Cut the biscuits about the size of a five- 
shilling piece ; pass a paste-brush over them, dipped 
in cold water ; then sprinkle a little sugar over them, 
and bake in a slow oven until pale brown and quite 
crisp. 

Ginger Nuts, 

Ingredients. — One pound of flour, half a pound 
of sugar, the same of butter and treacle, four ounces 
of orange-peel, two ounces of almonds, two ounces 
of ground ginger, the rind and juice of half a lemon, 
a small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, and one 

egg. 

Beat the butter and sugar together ; add the flour 

and treacle ; the peel and almonds cut small ; then 

the soda and egg. Work all into a firm dough ; 

make it up in small balls the size of a walnut; 

flatten them with the hand, and place them upon 

prepared baking-sheets, and bake light brown and 

Q 



242 CAKES AND BISCUITS. 

quite crisp. This mixture may also be rolled out 
and cut into any shape or size. 



Ginger Cream Biscuits, 

Ingredients. — One pound and a quarter of flour, 
three-quarters of a pound of butter, half a pound of 
sugar, an ounce of ground ginger, two eggs, and a 
little cream. 

Beat the butter and sugar for twenty minutes; 
add the eggs, and beat five minutes longer. Add 
the flour by degrees, then the ginger, and about a 
teacupful of cream. Stir the mixture, and roll it 
out till about the thickness of a quarter of an inch. 
Cut out with a small tin cutter as many biscuits as 
the paste will produce, place them on a slightly 
buttered baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven 
for about ten minutes. 

Orange Biscuits. 

Put on some bitter oranges in cold water; let 
them come to the boil ; change the water four or five 
times ; the last time let them boil gently three- 
quarters of an hour. Then remove them from the 
pan ; cut them in halves ; take out all the pulp ; 
chip the rind small with a knife, and put it into a 
mortar, and pound it well ; then rub it through a 
hair-sieve and add it to the pulp. To one pound 
of the prepared orange add two pounds of pounded 
white sugar; mix it and let it lie all night; next 
day spread it out thin on dishes previously brushed 
with salad-oil; allow it -to stand for a few hours; 



CAKES AND BISCUITS. 243 

then cut them into shapes. When dry turn them, 
and allow them to dry on the other side. Dish 
them on lace-paper for dessert. 



Almond Tablet. 

Put a pound of loaf-sugar in a pan with a pint of 
cold water; when the sugar is dissolved, boil it 
sharply until it candies, which may be ascertained 
by dipping a spoon into it and then in cold water ; 
if it is quite crisp and breaks freely, add a pinch 
of cream-of-tartar, and six ounces of almonds which 
have been split and toasted in the oven. Pour it 
out on a flat dish which has been brushed with 
salad-oil or dissolved butter; when cool, mark it 
with a knife as it is meant to be cut. Before it is 
thoroughly cold turn it out of the dish, and cut it 
as it has been marked. 



JAMS AND JELLIES, 



Peach Jam, 

Skin the peaches and extract their stones ; add to 
the fruit its weight of fine white sugar; boil in a 
brass or copper pan for about fifteen minutes ; skim 
it ; remove from the fire and put it into jam-pots, 
and put away in a cool place for a day. When 
thoroughly set, it must be covered with small rounds 
of white paper, dipped in brandy or whisky, and 
tied down with another covering of paper or of 
bladder. The pots may then be put away in a dry 
cool place. 

Apricot Jam. 

Cut up some ripe apricots ; break the stones ; 
extract the kernels ; scald, and add them to the 
fruit. To each pound of fruit allow three-quarters 
of a pound of crushed loaf-sugar. Put it into a 
preserve -pan, and stir until it boils ; skim it, and 
boil for about twenty minutes, stirring it all the 
time ; then put it into pots, and finish the same as 
peach jam. 



JAMS AND JELLIES. 245 

Cherry Jam. 

Pick the cherries off the stalks ; extract the stones ; 
put the fruit in a basin ; then pour off their juice 
into another dish. Have ready some red-currant 
or raspberry juice ; add the same quantity of it 
to the prepared cherries as that of their own juice. 
Allow equal quantities of cherries and pounded 
sugar ; boil it for about twenty minutes ; skim it, 
and put the jam into pots. The juice of the cherries 
may be used for syrup or pudding-sauce. 



Greengage {Plum) Jam. 

Pick and extract the stones from as many green- 
gages as may be required. To each pound of fruit 
allow one pound of crushed loaf-sugar. Put it into 
a preserving-pan with the fruit ; add a little water ; 
place the pan on a clear brisk fire ; with a wooden 
spoon stir carefully. Blanch the kernels and add 
them to the jam. When it has boiled about twenty 
minutes, skim it well and put it into pots. 



Gooseberry Jam. 

Take as many ripe gooseberries as required ; 
allow equal weight of sugar for fruit ; add a little 
raspberry or currant juice ; to a pint of juice add a 
pound of sugar. Put the whole into a preserve- 
pan ; place it upon the stove or clear fire, and boil 
for about twenty-five minutes. Skim it well, and 
pot it. 



246 JAMS AND JELLIES. 

Black-Currant Jam, 

Gather the currants when dry ; pick them from 
their stalks. Allow a pound of sugar to each pound 
of fruit ; and to every four pounds add a pint of red- 
currant or raspberry juice, adding a pound of sugar 
to every pint Then put it into a brass pan and 
boil on a clear fire for about fifteen minutes. Skim, 
and put it into pots. 



Raspberry Jam, 

Gather the raspberries when dry. To each pound 
of fruit allow one pound of crushed white sugar ; 
place the pan on the stove ; stir until it boils, then 
skim it When it has boiled about ten minutes, pot it 

Strawberry Jam, 

To each pound of strawberries add 'one pound 
of pounded sugar; put them into a preserve -pan 
with the sugar ; place the pan on the hot-plate, and 
shake it occasionally to prevent the fruit from adher- 
ing to the bottom. Boil it sharply for about fifteen 
minutes. Skim it well and put it into pots, and finish 
as directed for peach jam. 

Rhubarb Jam. 

Take as much tender and full-grown rhubarb as 
required ; cut off the ends ; rub it with a cloth, and 
cut in pieces about an inch long. To each pound of 
rhubarb allow one pound and a quarter of sugar ; 



JAMS AND JELLIES. 247 

put layers of them alternately in a deep dish ; let it 
stand twenty-four hours ; pour the liquor into a brass 
pan, and boil it for half an hour ; then add the rhu- 
barb, and boil for half an hour longer. Skim it, and 
put the jam into pots. 



Rhubarb Jelly. 

Take some rhubarb while young and tender; 
wipe it with a cloth ; cut it in pieces ; put it into 
a pan with as much water as will just cover the 
bottom ; place the pan on the stove, and simmer 
slowly until the whole is dissolved into a pulp ; then 
strain through a jelly -bag ; and to every pint of 
juice add one pound and a quarter of crushed loaf- 
sugar ; a few pieces of whole ginger may be added. 
Boil the jelly sharply for about twenty minutes. 
Skim it well, and put it into pots. 

Whortleberry Jam. 

Take the berries when ripe ; put them into a brass 
pan ; add the same weight of sugar, and as much 
water as will cover the bottom of the pan ; stir it 
on the fire until it boils, then skim it. Boil for about 
fifteen minutes, and put it into pots. 

Red-Currant Jelly. 

Gather the currants when they are dry; bruise 
them with the hand ; put them into a brass pan ; 
place it on the stove; stir the berries until they 
are hot, then pour into a jelly-bag. When the juice 



243 JAMS AND JELLIES. 

has all run through, put it into a preserve-pan. To 
every pint of juice allow one pound of crushed loaf- 
sugar ; place the pan on the stove or clear fire, and 
stir all the time, removing the scum as it rises. Allow 
it to boil for about two minutes, then put it into 
pots, and finish as directed for peach jam. 



Apple Jelly, 

Slice up some green, juicy apples ; place them in 
a preserve -pan ; add as much cold water as will 
nearly cover them, also a few pieces of whole ginger. 
Place the pan on the stove, and boil the apples to a 
mash ; pour it into a jelly-bag ; place a basin under 
the bag, and allow all the apple-juice to pass through. 
Allow a pound of sugar to every pint of juice. Boil 
it for about fifteen minutes, then skim it, and put it 
into pots. 

Orange Jelly. 

Take four dozen bitter and one dozen sweet 
oranges ; cut them in thin slices ; take out all the 
pips ; add enough of cold water to cover them ; then 
boil till quite soft Strain through a flannel bag. 
Add one pound of crushed loaf-sugar to every pint 
of orange-juice, and let it boil for about twenty 
minutes. Skim it well, and put into pots. 

Parsley Jelly. 

Take a basketful of tender parsley, and wash it 
in several waters. Place it in a brass pan ; add as 



JAMS AND JELLIES. 249 

much cold water as will nearly cover it. Boil it for 
about half an hour, and pour it into a jelly-bag. Re- 
turn the juice into the bag a second time. To every 
pint of juice, add one pound of lump-sugar, and the 
rind and juice of a lemon ; then boil it for twenty- 
five minutes. Skim it, and put the jelly into pots. 



Orange Marmalade. 

Cut some bitter oranges in quarters. Use a sharp 
knife to cut out the pulp and remove the pips. Put 
the fruit into a basin, and the quarters of peel into 
a pan containing water. Boil them until they are 
nearly soft to the touch. They must then be drain- 
ed and put into cold water, and afterwards put on 
sieves to drip. Next, they must be cut up in shreds. 
Then weigh the shred -peel and the interior fruit 
kept in reserve, and to every pound of prepared 
fruit allow one pound of crushed loaf-sugar, and the 
grated rind and juice of two or more lemons. Put 
the whole into a pan, and boil for about twenty-five 
minutes. Skim it well, and put into pots. 



Transparent Marmalade. 

Grate the rind of some bitter oranges ; cut them 
in quarters ; put the juice and pulp of the fruit into 
a basin. Pick out the pips and septa. Put the 
latter into a little cold water ; then strain, and add 
to the liquor and pulp. Tie the rind in a piece of 
cloth, and boil it in water for ten minutes, and add 
to the prepared orange. To every pint of the orange 



250 JAMS AND JELLIES. 

allow one pound of crushed loaf-sugar. Boil for 

about half an hour. Skim it well, and put it into 
pots. 

Hip Jam, 

Collect the hips from the rose-bushes when ripe ; 
cut each in two and free them from seeds. Boil 
them in water until they are soft and easily crushed 
through a sieve; add an equal quantity of sugar 
to that of fruit, with some lemon -juice. Boil lor 
about ten minutes. Skim and pot it 

Damson Jelly, 

» 
Put the damsons into jars ; put these in a pot of 

water on the stove and boil until the fruit is tender. 

Strain off the juice. To every pint of juice, add one 

pound of pounded sugar. Just let it boil, and skim it ; 

then pot it 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 



Elderberry Wine. 

Boil five gallons of water for half an hour, and let 
it stand till lukewarm. Mince roughly twenty-four 
pounds of Malaga raisins ; add them to the water. 
Let it remain for ten days. Stir it twice a -day. 
Then strain the liquor through a hair-sieve. Have 
ready about six pints of the juice of elderberries, ex- 
tracted as for jelly. Mix it cold with the raisin-juice, 
and put it into a cask. Let it stand in a warm place. 
Tilt the cask a little, and stir the contents well up 
from the bottom once or twice a-day. Any sedi- 
ment that the wine may contain will be cast off at 
the lower side of the bung -hole. A little liquor 
must be kept in readiness for filling up the cask as 
occasion may require during the process of fermenta- 
tion, which may last for two or three weeks, accord- 
ing to the size of the cask. When the wine has 
ceased to hiss, the cask may be edged up until the 
bung-hole is level. Then cork it tight, and let it re- 
main in a cool dry place for three months. It may 
then be put into bottles, and kept for any length of 
time. 



253 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 

English Chafnpagne. 

Boil eighteen pounds of sugar in six gallons of 
water for half an hour ; then skim it, and pour it 
boiling over two gallons of white currants picked from 
the stalks, but not bruised On the liquor becoming 
the temperature of new milk, ferment it with ale- 
yeast, and after allowing it to work for two days, 
strain it through a flannel bag into a barrel which it 
completely fills. On its ceasing to ferment, put into 
the cask half an ounce of bruised isinglass, and bung 
it Let it remain in the cask until the wine is clear, 
then bottle it off, and put into each bottle a lump of 
refined sugar. 

Mixed Fruit Wine. 

This wine can be made from a mixture of small 

fruits. These, when ripe, should be gathered dry, 

and put into an earthen jar, and well stirred and 

squeezed with the hand once or twice a -day, in 

order to dissolve the fruits. When the liquor rises 

in the vessel, it must be strained through a hair-sieve 

and put into a cask. To every gallon of liquor add 

about three pounds and a half of crushed loaf-sugar. 

Tilt the cask a little. Allow it to ferment the same 

as elderberry wine ; and to every gallon add about 

a pint and a half of malt whisky, then cork it up 

tight. Let it remain in the cask for about six 

months, and then put it into bottles. Cork and seal 

them. 

Bramble Vinegar. 

Put the fruit in a jar and cover with vinegar ; let 
it stand for two days and nights ; then strain through 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 253 

a flannel bag, and boil the same as jelly, with sugar, 
for twenty minutes. Let it stand till cold enough 
not to break the bottles, Cork when thoroughly 
cold. It is then ready for use. 

Ginger Beer. 

Boil two pounds of loaf-sugar in two gallons of 
water, and pour it over two ounces of bruised ginger, 
with the peel and juice of one lemon ; when it be- 
comes lukewarm, strain it and add two spoonfuls of 
yeast When thoroughly cold, cork the bottles and 
keep them in a cool place. 

Raspberry or Strawberry Syrup, 

Put twelve pounds of fruit, quite dry and ripe, into 
a vessel ; pour into it twelve quarts of cold water, 
previously acidulated with five ounces of tartaric 
acid. Let it stand twenty-four hours ; then strain 
off the liquid, taking care not to bruise the fruit. To 
each pint of clear liquid add one pound of loaf-sugar, 
finely pounded. When the sugar is dissolved, bottle 
the syrup. Cork and tie down with twine ; then dip 
the corks in melted resin, and keep in a cool place. 
This liquid may be made into solid shapes by add- 
ing an ounce of dissolved gelatine to a quart of 
syrup; then put it into a mould, and when firm, 
turn it out The whole process must be done cold. 

Preserved Cherries, 

Take Morello cherries before they are over-ripe ; 
prick them all over with a pin, and put them on the 



254 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 

fire in a preserve-pan; cover them with a thin syrup; 
allow them to come gently to the boil. Remove 
them from the fire, and set aside in a earthenware 
dish. Next day, put them on again ; add a little 
more sugar to the syrup, and just bring them to the 
boil. Repeat this process three or four times. The 
last time, take out the cherries and boil the syrup 
till pretty thick ; when cold, pour it on the cherries. 
Put them into a stone jar, and tie down with bladder. 

Brandy Cherries. 

Cut ripe cherries off the tree ; let them drop, as 
they are cut, into wide bottles — brandy being first 
put into the bottles. When the bottles are full, and 
the fruit well covered with brandy, either seal them 
or put bladder on them. Keep them thus for six 
weeks ; then open the bottles and pour out the 
brandy ; add to it pounded white sugar, and when 
quite dissolved, pour it back again over the cherries. 
Two ounces of sugar to a pint of brandy is the proper 
proportion. The bottles must be corked and sealed, 
or tied down with bladder. 



Bottled Gooseberries, 

Gather some gooseberries when dry and in their 
unripe state ; put them into bottles. To every pound 
of gooseberries add six ounces of pounded sugar. 
Cork the bottles, and put them into a pot with cold 
water in sufficient quantity to reach up to the necks 
of the bottles ; put the pot on a slow fire or stove ; 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 255 

when the water comes to boiling-point, remove the 
pot from the fire, and allow the bottles to remain in 
it until the water becomes cold. Pour a little salad- 
oil in the bottles, to prevent the fruit from getting 
moulded on the top ; cork the bottles, and dip the 
top of each in hot bottle-wax. Put them away in a 
cold cellar, or bury them in the earth. 



Preserved Cucumbers. 

Take some nice cucumbers, and put them in water 
with salt for one night Next day, place them by 
the side of the fire, in the same brine; cover them 
with vine-leaves until they turn yellow ; then wash 
them in cold water. Put then into a pan with 
fresh water and a small piece of alum ; cover with 
vine-leaves, and simmer over a slow fire for a few 
minutes until they turn a nice green colour. Remove 
them from the pan and drip them on a sieve ; then 
cut them into six-inch lengths ; scoop out all the 
seeds ; put pieces of whole ginger into the insides of 
the pieces of cucumber, and tie them in with tape. 
Boil in syrup for about fifteen minutes, or until the 
cucumbers are soft ; then remove the pan from the 
fire. When cold, put the cucumbers into a jar. Boil 
the syrup with a little more sugar until pretty thick ; 
when cold, pour it over the cucumbers. They must 
be completely covered with the syrup, and the top 
of the jar tied down with bladder. When about to 
dish the cucumbers, cut the tape and remove the 
ginger. Pour a little of the syrup over them. 



256 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 

Bottled Currants. 

Gather the currants in dry weather; put them into 
dry bottles ; fill up with syrup ; cork and tie down, 
as directed for gooseberries ; place the bottles in a 
deep pot with cold water ; put on the stove. When 
nearly boiling, remove the pot from the stove ; when 
the water is cold, finish the bottles as directed for 
gooseberries. 

Bottle- WAX must be melted with bees'-wax in 
the proportion of one ounce of bees'-wax to one 
pound of bottle-wax. 

Pickled Cauliflower, 

Cut the cauliflowers in small sprigs ; soak them in 
water with salt for one night ; then boil in milk and 
water for four minutes. Lift them gently on a sieve 
and let them become cold. Boil them a second time, 
the same length of time and in the same manner. 
Remove them carefully from the pan, and place them 
upon sieves to drip ; put them into jars or bottles ; 
pour boiling vinegar, with mace and white pepper- 
corns, over the cauliflowers. Cover tightly to exclude 
air. Small white onions may be done in the same 
manner. 

Pickled Red Cabbages. 

Slice the cabbages into a colander, and sprinkle 
each layer with salt ; allow them to drain for two 
days, then put them into a jar, and pour in boiling 
vinegar enough to cover the whole. Cover the top 
of the jar with bladder. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 257 

Mushroom Catsup 

Gather mushrooms when dry ; break them into 
bits, and put them into a dish. Sprinkle each layer 
with salt Let them remain for two days ; stir occa- 
sionally ; strain the liquid through a hair-sieve, and 
put it into a pan. Add mixed spices, and the beat 
whites of two or more eggs. Boil for about five 
minutes, then strain it through a napkin into a basin. 
When cold, put it into bottles ; cork and seal them, 
and keep in a dry place. 

Cream Cheese, 

Place a piece of linen inside a round basin ; pour 
therein about two quarts of thick sweet cream ; gather 
up the edges of the cloth, and tie with twine close 
to the cream ; suspend it upon a hook or nail ; place 
a basin under it to receive the thin cream as it passes 
through the linen cloth. When the cream ceases to 
run, remove the twine nearer to the cream ; then let 
it drip for twenty-four hours. Turn it upside down, 
and place a heavy weight on the top, with nettles 
under and over the cheese. When about to serve, 
remove the cloth ; place the cheese upon its dish ; 
garnish round the base with small nettle-leaves, and 
serve with oatmeal cakes or hard biscuits. 

Preserved Eggs, 

Get new-laid eggs while warm, and rub them all 
over with a cloth soaked in butter ; then take a box 
or barrel, and put a layer of salt into it. Lay the 



258 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 

^gs among the salt, and cover them over with it to 
exclude the air, and keep in a dry place. 

To Sponge Black Silk, 

Put a teacupful of whisky into a basin ; add a 
table-spoonful of black soap and a teaspoonful of 
honey. Mix well Dip a sponge into the mixture, 
and rub on each side of the silk ; then dip the silk 
in two clean waters. Hang it on a screen to drip. 
Whenhalf dry, iron it on the inside. 

To Clean Hair-Brnshes, 

Spread a double sheet of newspaper upon a table, 
and place thereon two handfuls of flour. Take two 
brushes, and dip them into the flour. Rub the two 
together, and then shake out the soiled flour. Dip 
them again, and go on rubbing and dipping until they 
are clean. Rub them with a cloth. Brushes cleaned 
in this manner do not get soft 

Wash for tlie Hair. 

Dissolve one ounce of borax and half an ounce of 
camphor in a pint of boiling water. When cold, dip 
a sponge or piece of flannel into the wash and rub 
it to the roots of the hair. Brush well afterwards. 

Pomade for the Hair. 

Take one pint of salad-oil, three ounces spermaceti, 
six drams bergamot, one dram palm-oil, and four 
drops otto of roses. Mix these together in a basin; 
dissolve before the fire, and put it into pots. 



INDEX. 



Adelaide sandwiches, 159. 
Allemande sauce, 50. 
Almond cheese-cakes, 188. 

soup, 6. 

tablet, 243. 

tartlets, 189. 
American yams, 137. 
Anchovy, canapees of, 168. 

sauce, 45. 
Apple, Charlotte, 196. 

cream, 218. 

fritters, 197. 

jelly, 248. 

marmalade, 203. 

sauce, 53. 

shape, 198. 

tart, 198. 
Apricot cream, 217. 

jam, 244. 
Apricots, compote of, 206. 

nougat of, 207. 
Arrowroot biscuits, 239. 

cake, 234. 

pudding, iced, 221. 
Artichokes, preserved, 141. 

scalloped, 167. 
Asparagus, to boil, 140. 
Aspic jelly, for salads, 149. 

Beef-steaks, 106. 

Beef, boiled round of, 104. 

boiled edge-bone of, 105. 

olives, 64. 

pressed, 106. 

roast sirloin of, 103. 

roast ribs of, 104. 

spiced, 105. 
Beef-steak pie, 126. 

pudding, 131. 



Beetroot salad, 157. 

to dress, 139. 
Benekerry cake, 21:9. 
Biscuits glacis, 225. 
Blackbird pie, 129. 
Black-currant jam, 246. 
Black game and grouse, to roast, 

143- 
Black puddings, 165. 

Black silk, to sponge, 258. 

Blancmange, 219. 

ginger, 220. 

with jelly, 220. 
Boiled cheese, 17a 

fowls, sauce for, 51. 
Bonnes-bouches, 86. 
Bottled currants, 256. 

gooseberries, 254. 
Bramble vinegar, 252. 
Brandy cherries, 254. 
Brawn, how to malce, 12a 

sauce, 5a 
Bread sauce, 48. 
Bread-and-butter pudding, 186. 
Brill, 24. 
Brown bread ice, 224. 

butter sauce, 4a 

caper sauce, 41. 

soup, clear, 5. 
II II second stock, 6. 
Brushes, to clean hair, 258. 
Burnt-butter sauce, 44. 
Butter, to clarify, 162. 

Cabbages, to boil, 139, 

Cabinet pudding, 185. 

Calf feet, fried, 89. 

Calf s brains in cases, au grati'n, 88. 

Calf s-feet jelly, 209. 



26o 



INDEX. 



Canapees of anchovy, i68. 
Caper sauce, brown, 41. 
It white, 41. 
Capon boiled, 99. 

braised, 99. 
Caramel pudding, 181. 
Cardoon, to boil, 135. 
Cardinal sauce, 40, 48. 
Carrot pudding, 182. 
Carrots, young, 138. 
Cauliflower, pickled. 256. 
Cauliflowers, 136. 

with Parmesan cheese, 174. 
Cayenne cheese, 172. 
Celery sauce, 51. 

and onion soup, 10. 

with brown sauce, 139. 
Champagne jelly, 210. 
Cheese-cakes, 188. 
Cheese fritters, 173. 

boiled, 170. 

omelette, 167. 

pudding, z68. 

ramakins, 172. 

soufflit 171. 

straws, 173. 
M very rich, 173. 

tartlets, 170. 
Cherry jam, 245. 

jelly, 214. 

water ice, 225. 
Cherries, compote of, 207. 

brandy, 254. 

preserved, 253. 
Chestnut pudding, 181. 

pudding, sauce for, 181. 

soup, 13. 

stuffing for braised turkey, 95. 
Chestnuts, compote of, 206, 
Chicken, cream of, jj. 

curried, 83. 

cushions of, 80. 

fillets of, frittered, 77. 

fricassee of, 84. 

quenelles of, 79. 

and tongue i la Macidoine, 98. 

or partridge a la St Clair, 81. 
Chickens, to roast, 98. 
Chocolate biscuits, 240. 

cake, 235. 

cream, 218. 
It ice, 224. 
Claret jelly, 211. 
Cockles, scalloped, 38, 59. 
Cocky-leeky, 16. 



Cocoa-nut pudding, 180. 
Cod d, rindienne^ 26. 

with brown oyster-sauce, 26. 

with oyster-sauce, crimped. 26. 
Cod-sound pie, 134. 
Coffee, iced, 223. 

cream, 218. 
It ice, 223. 
College puddings, 185. 
Common pea- soup, 17. 
Compote of apples, 905. 

II syrup for, 206. 

of apricots, 206. 

of cherriijs, 207. 

of chestnuts, 2q(5. 

of peaches, 207. 
Conservative pudding, 189. 

whip-sauce for, 189. 
Crab soup, 19. 
Cream bichamel sauce, 40. 

cheese, 257. 

II fritters, 168. 

pudding, 199. 

souffli^ iced, 222. 
Crime de volatile, 82. 
Croquettes, 92. 

of macaroni, 171. 
Croustades with marrow, 73. 
Crystal Palace pudding, 192. 
Cucumber salad, 156. 
Cucumbers, preserved, 255. 
Cups pudding, 180. 
Currants, bottled, 256, 
Curry, dry, 81. 
Custard in cups, 220. 

pudding, 186. 

pudding, iced, 222. 
Cutlet d la jardiniire^ 70 

Damson jelly, 250. 

Date pudding, 177. 

Dean of Ripon's biscuits, 239. 

Devonshire cream, 200. 

junket, 202. 
Diet loaves, 230. 
Duchess loaves, 188. 

soup, 15. 
Duck, stewed, with green peas, loi. 
Dutch quenelle^ 83. 

sauce, 46. 

Eel-pie, 34. 
Eel soup, 19. 
Eels, fried, 33. 
Egg sandwiches, 159. 



INDEX. 



261 



Egg sauce, 45. 
Eggs, preserved, 257. 
Elderberry wine, 251, 
English champagne, 252. 
Eve's pudding, 178. 

Fennel sauce, 49. 
Fig pudding, 177. 
Fillets of b^f, 63. 

of beef with mushroom sauce, 

65. 
of mutton stewed, 75. 

Financiire sauce, 88. 

Fish cakes for breakfast, 38. 

pie, 38. 

sandwiches, 158. 

sauffi^, 63. 

soup, 20. 
Force-meat, 83. 
Fowl, fillets of, with asparagus peas, 

85. 
and ham, potted, 161. 

Fowls, to boil, 97. 

to roast, 97. 
Friar's omelette, 203. 
Fruit beverage, 193. 

souffli^ 195. 
Frying batter, 77. 

Galantine oi poiilarde^ 154. 

of poularde, with cream hicha- 
»i^/ sauce, 155. 
Game quenelle^ 83. 
Gdteau of apple, 197. 
Gelatine, to clarify, 212. 
General satisfaction pudding, 202. 
Genoese salad, 151. 

sauce, 40. 
German puffs, 187. 
Giblet pie, 129. 

soup, clear, 11. 

soup, thick, II. 
Ginger biscuits, 241. 

beer, 253. 

blancmange, 220. 

cream biscuits, 242. 

nuts, 241. 
Gingerbread cake, 236. 

plain, 237. 
Glaze, how to make, 107. 
Globe artichokes, to boil, 135. 
Goose, to roast a, 99. 

braised, d la jardiniire, 100. 
Gooseberry jam, 245. 
Gooseberries, bottled, 254. 



Grape jelly, 215. 

water ice, 224. 
Green anchovy butter, 170. 

goose, 145. 

gooseberries, shape of, 201. 

gooseberry sauce, 49. 

pea soup, 17. 

peas, to boil, 140. 
Greengage (plum) jam, 245. 
Grouse, salmi of, 86. 

cutlets. Glengarry, 86. 

pie, 128. 

salad, 155. 

soup, clear, 9. 

soup, thick, 9. 

and black game, to roast, 143. 
Guinea-fowl, to roast, 143. 
Gurnet, boiled, 31. 

fillets of, 31. 

Haddock, baked, 28. 

fillets of, 27. 

grilled, 27. 
Hair brushes, to clean, 258. 

pomade for the, 258. 

wash for the, 258. 
Ham toast, 166. 

Hams, to cure, as in Ireland, 121. 
Hare, roast, 146. 

pie, 130. 

soup, clear, 12. 

soup, thick, 12. 

stuffing for, 147. 
Heart of r^ deer, roasted, 124. 
Heathcote soup, 2. 
Heron soup, 4. 
Herrings, potted, 36. 

fresh, to dress, 37. 
Hip jam, 250. 
Hodge-podge, 16. 
Horse-raddish sauce, 51. 
Huttres d la brochette, 169. 

Icing of cakes, 205. 
Indian pilau, 89. 

sauce, 44. 
Irish sandwiches, 159. 

stew, 114. 
Italian cream, 219. 

pigeon stew, 85. 

sauce, 42. 

Jam roll, 187. 

Jerusalem artichokes, to dress, 137. 

John dory, 25. 



262 



INDEX. 



Kidney pudding, 13a. 

soup, 10. 
Kidneys, broiled, 115. 

La Perde pudding, 186. 
Lamb, boiled leg of, 1 z6. 

cutlets i la Vicomtesse, 72. 

roast fore-quarter of, 116. 

saddle of, braised, 117. 

shoulder of, grilled, 117. 

or mutton cutlets with tomato 
sauce, 70. 
Lamb's stove soup, 18. 
I^rk pie, 128. 
Larks, roast, 144. 
Lemon jelly, 213. 

sponge, 215. 

pudding, 182. 

pudding, baked, 183. 

pudding, wine sauce for, 182. 

water ice, 226. 
Leveret, bouchies of, 78. 
Ui^isouffli, 195. 
Lobster, bouckies of, 62^ 

croquettes^ 60. 

cutlets, 61. 

loaf, 60. 

potted, 161. 

salad, 152. 

sauce, 43. 

scalloped, 59. 

soup, 18. 
Louis Philippe's pudding, 191. 

Macaroni cheese, 169. 

croquettes of, 90. 

soup, 7. 
Macidoine of vegetables, how to 

prepare a, 70. 
Mackerel, boiled, 31. 

filleted, 31. 

grilled, 31. 
Madeira cake, 231. 
Mattre d' hotel sauce, 42. 
Maraschino jelly, 211. 
Marmalade, orange, 249. 

pudding, 182. 

transparent, 249. 
Marrow toast, 166. 
Matelotte sauce, 48. 
Mayonnaise sauce, 47. 

of chicken, 153. 
Mentone cutlets, 74. 
Meringues, 204. 

turban of, 204. 



Mince-pies, 183. 
Minced coUops, 107. 
Mint sauce, 52. 
Mixed fruit wine, 252. 
Mock turtle soup, clear, 7. 

tiurtle soup, thick, 8. 
Mulligatawny soup, 13. 

soup, clear, 13. 
Mushroom catsup, 257. 

sauce, 51. 
Mushrooms, grilled, 170. 
Mussel sauce, 44. 
Mussels, scalloped, 38, 59. 
Mustard sauce, 48. 
Mutton, roast saddle of, z 12. 

boiled leg of, 113. 

braised leg of, 113. 

cutlets d la Riforme, 71. 

cutlets d la Vicomtesse, 72. 

cutlets with tomato sauce, 70. 

haricot, 114. 

pies, small, 132. 

pudding, 131. 

roast gigot of, 112. 

stuffed shoulder of, 114. 

Northumberland pudding, 177. 
Nougat of apricots, 207. 

Onion and celery soup, 10. 
Onions, with white sauce, 138. 
Orange biscuits, 242. 

cream, 217. 

fritters, 198. 

jelly, 248. 

jelly, clear, 212. 
It thick, 213. 

marmalade, 249. 

tart, 183. 

water ice, 226. 
Oranges filled with jelly, 213. 
Ox palates, braised, 65. 
It curried, 66. 
II stuffed, 66. 

tongue, 107. 
Ox- tail soup, 7 
Oyster croquettes^ 58. 

cutlets, 58. 

patties, 56. 

salad, 150. 

sauce, brown, 45. 
II white, 45. 

souffli, 57. 
II panada for, ^7* 

soup, 18. 



INDEX. 



263 



Oyster toasts, 165. 
Oysters, curried, 57. 

fried, 56. 

scalloped, 37, 59. 

roasted, 164. 

Palestine soup, 15. 
Pancakes. 191. 
Paradise pudding, 176. 
Parmesan cheese with cauliflowers, 

174. 
Parsley jelly, 248. 

sauce, 46. 

to fry, 163. 
Partridge or chicken d la St Clair, 81. 

roast, 145. 
Passion biscuits, 338. 
Patent flour, 234. 
Pauline pudding, 178. 
Pea-hens, 144. 
Pea-soup, common, 17. 
Peach cream, 316. 

jam, 244. 
Peaches, compote of, 207. 
Perch, 35. 
Petticoat tails, 333. 
Phantasy cake, 231. 
Pheasant cutlets, 75. 

potted, 161. 

salad, 155. 

to roast a, 14a. 
Pigeon-pie, 138. 
Pigeons, roast, 146. 

for a remove, loa. 
Pickle for beef, 108. 
Pickled cauliflower, 256. 

red cabbages, 356. 
Pike, baked, 34. 

souchet of, 35. 
Pine-apple water ice, 327. 
Piquant sauce, 43. 
Plain butter-sauce, 39. 
Plum-cake, 328. 
Plum-pudding, 184. 

sauce for, 185. 
Pluviers d la Cenare, 7a. 
Pomade for the hair, 258. 
Pompelian pudding, 176. 
Pork, roast leg of, 118. 

boiled leg of, 118. 

roast loin of, 119. 

sausages, iso. 

spare ribs of, 120. 
Port wme sauce for wild ducks, 50. 
Portugal onion, biaised, 139. 



Potato pudding, 19a 

ribbons, 142. 

salad, 157. 

soup, 10. 

soujffl^, 194. 
Potted fowl and ham, 16 x. 

lobster, 161. 

pheasant, 161. 

spiced beef, 162. 
Pouns, boiled, 35. 

fried, 35. 
Preserved cherries, 253. 

cucumbers, 255. 

eggs, 257. 
Prince of Wales's pudding, 178. 

sauce, 46. 
Prince's sandwiches, the, 158. 
Prunes, stewed, 200. 
Pudding of cream, 192. 
Puff-paste for patties, 53. 

Quails, how to roast, 146. 
Queen drops, 240. 
Quenelles for stuffed soles, 29. 
made from cold roast fowl, 79. 

Rabbit cutlets, 93. 

cream of, 78. 

petite chard^ 80. 

pie, 13a 
Rabbits, roast, 148. 
Raspberry cream, 217. 

cream ice, 224. 

jam, 246. 

or strawberry syrup, 253. 

water ice, 235. 
Raspin pudding, 180. 
Ratafla biscuits, 34a 
Ravigote sauce, 42. 
Red mullets, grilled, 32. 

cabbages, pickled, 256. 

mullets, stewed, 32. 

mullets with herbs, 3a. 
Red-currant jelly, 247. 
Reform chips, 71. 

sauce, 43. 
Rhubarb jam, 346. 

jelly, 247. 

shape of, 201. 
Rice cake, 230. 

cakes, small, 238. 

cream, 219. 

plain boiled, for curries, 27. 

shape of, 199. 
Rich while soup, 15. 



264 



INDEX. 



Ringlets, 91. 
Rissoles, 91. 
Robert sakul, 152. 

sauce, 43. 
Rolled beef coUops, 64. 
Roman pie, 82. 

punch. 226. 
Rum jelly, 212. 
Rummelled eggs, 169. 
Russian Charlotte, 202. 

jelly, 211. 

kromeskya, 90. 

pudding, 179. 

salad, 156. 

sauce, 52. 

Salad d la Rachel, 156. 
Salmi sauce, 50. 
Salmon au gratin, 22. 

d VIndienne, fillets of, 22. 

d la ravigote, fillets of, 22. 

boiled, 21. 

cadgerre, 23. 

grilled, 21. 

salad, 151. 
Salsify, 136. 
Savoy cakes, 230. 

eggs, 164. 
Savoury omelette, 167. 
Scalloped artichokes, 167. 
Scotch bun, 233. 

haggis, 115. 

sowans, 175. 

woodcock, 175. 
Sea-kale, to boil, 138. 
Sea-moss farina, shape of, 200. 
Seed cake, 228. 
Shallot gravy, 52. 
Sheep-head pie, 127. 
Shepherd's pie, 133. 
Shortbread, plain, 237. 
Shrimp sauce, 44. 
Silk, to sponge black, 258. 
Skate, crimped, 36. 

crimped, with brown butter 
sauce, 36. 
Small sponge cakes, 236. 
Smelts, baked, 33. 

fried, 33. 
Snipe and woodcock, 143. 
Snow cake, 233. 
Soda cake, 234. 
Sole, fillets of, 29. 

fillets of, fried, 30. 

fillets of, d la Tartar, 3a 



Sole, fillets of, d la New Club, 38. 

fiUets of, d la New Club, sauce 
for, 28. 
Soles, boiled, 28. 

fried. 29. 

stuffed, 29. 

stuffed, quenelles for, 29. 
Solution to firm jelly, 315. 
Soubise cutlets, 73. 

sauce, 47. 
SouJU iced, 223. 

of oranges, 195. 

potatoes, 174. 
Sowans, Scotch, 175. 
Spanish pudding, 179. 

salad, 157. 
Spiced beef, potted, 162. 
Spinach greening, 163. 

to boil, 140. 
Sponge cake, 235. 

cake, small, 336. 
Sportsman's broth, 3. 
Spring soup, 6. 
St Clair sauce, 48. 
Stewed prunes, 3oa 
Stock, how to make white, 14. 
Strawberry cream, 317. 

jam, 246. 

jelly, 214. 

soujffU, 194. 

water ice, 226. 

or raspberry syrup, 353. 
Stuffing, plain, '95. 
Sturgeon, d la cardinal, 25. 

grilled, with piquante sauc6^ 

Sucking-pig, to roast, 119. 

Sultana cake, 232. 

Swan, braised, 100. 

Sweet omelette, 191. 

Sweetbreads larded with truffles, 68. 

d la Toulouse, 69. 

plain, how to dress, 69. 

with white sauce, 69. 

Tablet, almond, 243. 
Tapioca pudding, 190. 
Tarragon sauce, clear, 46. 
Tendons of veal, 75. 
Tomato cheese, 166. 

sauce, 41. 

soup, 3. 
Tomatoes, to cook, 135. 
Transparent marmalaide, 349. 

pudding, 19a 



T 



INDEX. 



265 



Tripe, how to cook, 108. 

fried, 108. 
Trout, 23. 

sauce for, 49. 
Truffles, large, 174. 
Turban of meringues^ 204. 
Turbot, fillets of, 24. 

plain boiled, 23. 

with cream, augratin^ 24. 
Turkey, boiled, 95. 

boiled, d la Yorkshire, 96. 

braised, 96. 

stew, 102. 

to roast a, 94. 
Turnips, young, how to boil, 138. 
Turtle soup, clear, i. 

Vanilla jelly, 214. 
Veal cutlets, 66. 

cutlets d lafinanciire, 67. 

fricandelles, 67. 

loin of, d la crime^ in. 

loin of, braised, 109. 

roast fillet of, 109. 

roast loin of, no. 

sweetbreads with white mush- 
room sauce, 68. 

tendons of, 75. 

tendons of, curried, 76. 

and ham pie, 127. 
Vegetable marrow, 137. 

II soup, 14, 
Velvet cream, 216. ' 



Venison chops, 123. 

cutlets, 123. 

haricot of, 123. 

liver, fried, 125. 

pasty, 127. 

puddings, 125. 

roa5it haunch of, 122. 

soup, 3. 
Victoria sandwiches, z6o. 

soup, 16. 
Vinegar cake, 233. 
Vol-au-venl, d lajlnanciiref 87. 

Wash for the hair, 258. 
Water melon, 193. 
White beans, 136. 

bechamel sauce, 39. 

caper sauce, 41. 

sauce, 40, 80. 

soup, rich, 15. 

stock, how to make, 14. 
Whitebait, 36. 
Whitings, boiled, 32. 

fried, 32. 

fried, d la Fran^aisCt 33. 
Whortleberry jam, 247. 
Wild duck, 145. 

port wine sauce for, 50. 
Wine jelly, 210. 
Woodcodc, Scotch, 175. 

and snipe, 143. 

Yorkshire pudding, 104. 



PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS. 



/ 



CATALOGUE 



OF 



MESSRS BLACKWOOD & SONS' 



PUBLICATIONS. 



PHILOSOPHICAL CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS. 

Edited by WILLIAM KNIGHT, LL.D., 

Profesior of Moral Philosophy in the University of St Andrews. 
In crown 8vo Volumes, with Portraits, price 38. 6d. 

Now ready— 
I. Descartes. By Professor Mahafft, Dublin. 
II. Butler. By Rev. W. Lucas Coluns, M.A. 

III. Berkeley. By Professor Fbassr, Edinburgh. 

IV. Fichte. By Professor Adamson, Owens College, Manchester. 
V. Kant. By Professor Wallace, Oxford. 

VI. Hamilton. By Professor Veitch, Glasgow. 

The Volumes in preparation are — 

Hbobl. By Prof. Edward Gaird, Qlasgow. | Hobbes. By Professor Groom Bohertson, 

Vioo. By Professor Flint, Edinbur^. London. 

Bpinoza. By the Very Rev. Principal Hume. By the Editor. 

Caird, Glasgow. Baoom. By Professor Niohol, Gla^^w. 



In course of Publication. 

FOREIGN CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS. 

Edited by Mrs OLIPHANT. 

In Crown 8vo, as. 6d. 
The Volumes published are — 



Dante. By the Editor. 

YoLTAiBE. By M^or-Gteneral Sir E. B. 

Hamley, K.G.M.Q. 
Pascal. By Principal Tolloch 



Saint Simon. By Glifton W. Gollins, M. A. 
Cebvantbs. By the Editor. 
CoBNEiLLB AND Racine. By Hoiuy M. 
Trollope. 



Petbabch. By Henry Reeve, G. B. Madame de S^viqne. By Miss Thackeray. 

OoETHE. By A. Hay ward, Q.G. < La Fontaine, and otheb Fbench Fabu- 

Moli^bb. By the Editor and F. Tarver, ! lists. By Rev. W. Lucas Collins, M. A. 

M. A ScHiLLEB. By James Sime, M.A., Author 



Montaigne. By Rev. W. L. Collins, M.A. 
Rabelais. By Walter Besant, M.A. 
Caldebon. By E. J. HaselL 



of ' Lessing : his Life and Writings.' 
Tasso. By £. J. Hasell. 
Rousseau. By Henry Grey Graham. 



Now Complete. 

ANCIENT CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS. 

Edited by the Rev. W. LUCAS COLLINS, M.A. 

Complete in 28 Vols, crown Svo, cloth, price 2s. 6d. each. And may also be had in 
14 Volumes, strongly and neatly bound, with calf or vellum back, £2* zos. 
Saturday Review.— "It is difficult to estimate too highly the value of such a series 
as this in giving ' English readers ' an insight, exact as far as it goes, into those 
olden times which are so remote and yet to many of us so close." 



CATALOGUE 

OF 

MESSRS BLACKWOOD & SONS' 
P UBLICA T IONS. 



ALISON. History of Europe. By Sir Archibald Alison, Bart., 

D.C.L. 

1. From the Commencement of the French Revolution to tte 

Battle of Waterloo. 

BtiBRARY Edition, 14 vols., with Portraits. Demy 8vo, ;^io, zos. 
Another Edition, in 20 vols, crown 8vo, £6. 
People's Edition, 13 vols, crown 8vo, ;^2, zis. 

2. Continuation to the Accession of Louis Napoleon. 

Library Edition, 8 vols. 8vo, £6, 78. 6d. 
People's Edition, 8 vols, crown 8vo, 34s. 

3. Epitome of Alison's History of Europe. Twenty -ninth 

Thonsand, 78. 6d. , 

4. Atlas to Alison's History of Europe. By A. Keith Johnston. 

Library Edition, demy 4to, £2* 38> 
People's Edition, 318. 6<i 

^— Some Account of my Life and Writings: an Autobiography 

or the late Sir Archibald Alison, Bart., D.C.L. Edited by his Daughter-in- 
law, Lady Alison. 2 vols. 8vo, with Portrait engraved on SteeL 368. 

i^— — Life of John Duke of Marlborough. With some Account 
of his Contemporaries, and of the War of the Succession. Third Edition, 
2 vols. 8vo. Portraits and Maps, 308. 

Essays: Historical, Political, and Miscellaneous. 3 vols. 

demy 8vo, 45s. 

Lives of Lord Castlereagh and Sir Charles Stewart, 

Second and Third Marquesses of Londonderry. From the Original Papers of 
the Family. 3 vols. 8vo, £'i, 2s. 

ALIRABI. The Banks and Bankers of the Nile. By a Hadji of 

Hyde Park. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. 

ADAMS. Great Campaigns. A Succinct Account of the Principal 




College. 8vo, with Maps. z6s. 

AIRD. Poetical Works of Thomas Aird. Fifth Edition, with 

Memoir of the Author by the Rev. Jardinb Wallace, and Portrait. 
Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d, 

ALLARDYCE. The City of Sunshine. By Alexander Allar- 

dtcs. Three vols. i>ost 8vo, ;^z, 58. 6d. 

Memoir of the Honourable George Keith Elphinstone, 

K.B., Viscount Keith of Stonehaven Marischal, Admiral of the Red. One toI. 
8vo, with Portrait, Illustrations, and Maps. 21s. 



LIST OF BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 



ANCIENT CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS. Edited by 

Bev. W. LucAa Ck>LUN8, M.A. Complete inaS vols., clofh, 3B. 6d. each; or in 
Z4 vols., tatteftilly boand, with calf or vellum back, jCj, zoa. 

Contents of (he Series. 



HoMKB : Thb Iliad. By the Editor. 
HoMBR : Ths Odysbit. By the Editor. 
HsRODOTUs. By George C. Swayne, 

XsiropHOir. By Sir Alexander Giant, 

Bart, LL.D. 
EuBiPiDM. By W. B. Donne 
AniSTOPHAinu. By the Editor. 
Plato. By Clifton W. Collins, M.A. 
LuciAN. By the Editor. 
iBsGHTLUB. By the Right Bev. the Bishop 

of Colombo. 
Sophocles. By Clifton W. Collins, H.A. 
Hesiod A3n> Thbookis. By the Bev. J. 

.Davies, M.A. 
Obxkk AjrrHOLOOT. By Lord Neaves. 
ViROiL. By the Editor. 
HoRAOB. BySir Theodore Martin, K.C.B. 
Juvenal. By Edward Walford, M.A. 



Plautus and Terence. By the Editor. 

The Coumenta&ies of C^bsab. By An- 
thony Trollope, 

Tacitus. By w. R Donne. 

Cicero. By the Editor. 

Pliny's Letters. By the Rev. Alfred 
Church, H.A., and the Rev. W. J. Brod- 
ribb, M.A. 

LrvY. By the Editor. 

Ovid. By the Rev. A. Church, M.A 

Catullus, Tibullus, and Pbopbrtius. 
By the Rev. Jas. Davies, M. A. 

Demosthenes. By the R>ev. W. J. Brod- 
ribb, M.A. 

Aristotle. By Sir Alexander Grant, 
Bart., LL.D. 

Thuoydides. Bythe Editor. 

Lucretius. By w. H. Mallock, M.A. 

Pindar. By the Rev. F. D. Morice, M. A. 



AYLWARD. The Transvaal of To-day: War, Witchcraft, 

Sports, uid Spoils in South AiHca. By Alfred Aylward, Commandant, 
Transvaal Republic; Captain (late) Lydenberg Volunteer Corps. Second 
Edition. Crown 8vo, witn a Map, 6s. 

AYTOUN. Lays of the Scottish Cavaliers, and other Poems. By 

W. Edmondstoune Aytoun, D.C.L., Professor of Rhetoric and Belles-Lettr^ 
in the University of Edinbuigh. Twenty-eighth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 78. 6d. 

An Illustrated Edition of the Lays of the Scottish Cavaliers. 

Fh>m designs by Sir Noel Paton. Small 4to, 2zs. , in gilt doth. 

Bothwell : a Poem. Third Edition. Fcap., 7s. 6d. 

 Firmilian ; or, The Student of Badajoz. A Spasmodic 

Tragedy. Fcap., 5s. 

- Poems and Ballads of (Joethe. Translated by Professor 

Aytoun and Sir Theodore Martin, K.C.B. Third Edition. Fcap., 6s. 

Bon Gaultier's Book of Ballads. By the Same. Thirteenth 

Edition. With Illustrations by Doyle, Leech, and CrowquilL Post 8vo, gilt 
edges, 8s. 6d. 

The Ballads of Scotland. Edited by Professor Aytoun. 

Fourth Edition, a vols. fcap. 8vo, las. 

Memoir of William E. Aytoun, D.C.L. By Sir Theodore 



Martin,. K.C.B. With Portrait. Post Svo, 12s. 

BACH. On Musical Education and Vocal Culture. By Alberto 

B. Bach. Third Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Svo. [In preparation, 

BAGOT. The Art of Poetry of Horace. Free and Explanatory 
Translations in Prose and Verse. By the Very Rev. Daniel Baoot, D.D. 
Third Edition, Revis^ printed on papier vergi, square Svo, 5s. 

BATTLE OF DORKING. Reminiscences of a Volunteer. From 

'Blackwood's Magazine.' Second Hundredth Thousand. 6d. ' 

By the Same Author. 

The Dilemma. Cheap Edition. Crown Svo, 6s. 
BEDFORD. The Regulations of the Old Hospital of the Knights 

of St John at Valetta. From a Copy Printed at Rome, and preserved in the 
Archives of Malta; with a Translation, Introduction, and Notes Explanatory 
of the Hospital Work of the Order. By the Rev. W. K. R. Bedford, one of 
the Chaplahis of the Order of St John in England. Royal Svo, with Frontis* 
piece, Plans, &c., 7s. 6d. 



WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS. 



BESANT. The Revolt of Man. By Walter Bksant, M.A. 

Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 38. 6d. 

 Readings from Rabelais. In one volume, post 8vo. 

[In ths Press. 

BLACKIE. Lays and Legends of Ancient Greece. By John 

Stuabt Blagkie, Professor of Greek in the University of Edinburgh. Second 
Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 68. 

Wit and Wisdom of Goethe. In one volume, crown 8vo. 

[In the Press. 

BLACKWOOD'S MAGAZINE, from Commencement in 1817 to 

June x88o. N08. x to 804, forming 13a Volumes. 

Index to Blackwood's Magazine. Vols, i to 50. 8vo, 158. 

Tales from Blackwood. Forming Twelve Volumes of 

Interesting and Amusing Railway Reading. Price One Shilling each in Paper 
Cover. Sold separately at all Railway Bookstalls. 

They may also be had bound in cloth, z8s., and in half calf, richly gilt, 30s. 
or Z3 volumes in 6, Roxburghe, szs., and half red morocco, aSs. 

Tales from Blackwood. New Series. Complete in Twenty- 
four Shilling Parts. Handsomely bound in za vols., cloth, 30B. Tn leather 
back, Roxburghe style, 378. 6d. In half calf, gilt, 538. 6d. In half morocco, 

558' 

Standard Novels. Uniform in size and legibly Printed. 



Each Novel complete in one volume. 

Florin Series, Illustrated Boards. 



Tom Grinolk'b Loo. By Michael Scott. 
The Cruibx of the Mioob. By the Same. 
Ctril Thornton. By Captain Hamilton. 
Aknals of the Parish. By John Gait. 
The Provost, 6k. By John Oalt. 
Sir Andrew Wylie. By John Ghdt. 
The Entail. By John Gait. 
H188 Molly. By Beatrice May Butt. 
Reoinald Dalton. By J. G. Lockhart. 



Or in Cloth Boards, as. 6d. 
Shilling Series, Illustrated Cover. 



Pen Owen. By Dean Hook. 

Adam Blair. By J. G. Lockhart. 

Lady Lee's Widowhood. By General 

Sir E. B. Hamley. 
Salem Chapel. By Mrs Oliphant. 
The Perpetual Curate. By Mrs Oli- 

phaut 
Miss Marjoribanks. By Mrs Oliphant. 
John : A Love Story. By Mrs Oliphant. 



The Rector, and The Doctor's Family. 

By Mrs Oliphant. 
The Life of Mansie Wauch. By D. M. 

Moir. 
Peninsular Scenes and Sketches. By 

F. Hardman. 



Sir Frizzle Pumpkin, Nights at Mess, 

Ac. 
The Subaltern. 

Life in the Far West. By G. F. Ruxton. 
Valerius : A Roman Story. By J. G. 

Lockhart. 



Or in Cloth Boards, is. 6d. 

BLACKMORK The Maid of Sker. By R. D. Blackmore, Author 

of ' Loma Doone,' Ac. Eighth Edition, drown 8vo, 7s. 6d. 

BOSCOBEL TRACTS. Relating to the Escape of Charles the 

Second after the Battle of Worcester, and his subsequent Adventures. Edited 
by J. HuoHES, Esq., A.M. A New Edition, with additional Notes and Illus- 
trations, including Commimications from the Rev. R. H. Barham, Author of 
the ' Ingoldsby Legends.' 8vo, with Engravings, x6s. 

BRACKENBURY. A Narrative of the Ashanti War. Prepared 

from the official documents, by permission of Major-General Sir Garnet Wolse- 
ley. K.C.B., KC.M.G. By Major H. Brackenburt, R.A., Assistant Military 
Secretary to Sir Garnet Wolseley. With Maps firom ^e latest Surveys made by 
the Staff of the Expedition. 2 vols. 8vo, ass. 



LIST OF BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 



BROADLEY. Tunis, Past and Present. By A. M. Broadley. 

With namerouB Illustratioiis and Maps. 2 vols, post 8vo. 258. 

BROOKE, life of Sir James, Rajah of Sarawak. From Lis Personal 

Papers and Correspondence. By Spenser St Johk, H.M.'s Minister-Resident 
and Consol-Oeueral Peruvian Republic ; formerly Secretary to the Rajah. 
With Portrait and a Map. Post 8vo, z2S. 6d. 

BROUGHAM. Memoirs of the Life and Times of Henry Lord 

Brougham. Written by Himself. 3 vols. 8vo, jQa, Ss. The Volumes are sold 
separately, price z6s. each. 

BROWN. The Forester: A Practical Treatise on the Planting, 

Rearing, and General Management of Forest-trees. By Jambs Brown, Wood- 
Surveyor and Nurseryman. Fifth Edition, revised and enlarged. Royal 
8vo, with Engravings. 36s. ' 

BROWN. The Ethics of George Eliot's Works. By John Crombie 

Brown. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. 
BROWN. A Manual of Botany, Anatomical and Physiological. 

For the Use of Students. By Robert Brown, M.A., Ph.D. Crown 8vo, with 
numerous Illustrations, 12s. 6d. 

BUCHAN. Introductory Text-Book of Meteorology. By Alex- 
ander BucHAN, M.A., F.R.S.E., Secretary of the Scottish Meteorological 
Society, &c. Crown 8vo, with 8 Coloured Charts and other Engravings, 
pp. 2x8. 4s. 6d. 

BURBIDGE. Domestic Floriculture, Window Gardening, and 

Floral Decorations. Being practical directions for the Propagation, Culture, 
and Arrangement of Plants and Flowers as Domestic Ornaments. By F. W. 
BuRBiDOE. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, with numerous Illustrations, 78. 6d. 

Cultivated Plants : Their Propagation and Improvement. 

Including Natural and Artificial Hybridisation, Raising from Seed, Cuttings, 
and Layers, Grafting and Budding, as applied to the Families and Genera in 
Cultivation. Crown 8vo, with numerous Illustrations, X2S. 6d. 

BURN. Handbook of the Mechanical Arts Concerned in the Con- 
struction and Arrangement of Dwelling-Honses and other Buildings ; with 
Practical Hints on Road-making and the Enclosing of Land. By Robert Scott 
Burn, Engineer. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 6s. 6d. 

BURTON. The History of Scotland : From Agricola's Invasion to 

the Extinction of the last Jacobite Insurrection. By John Hill Burton. 
D.C.L., Historiographer-Royal for Scotland. New and Enlarged Edition. 
8 vols., and Index. Crown Svo, £^, 3s. 

History of the British Empire during the Reign of Queen 

Anne. In 3 vols. Svo. 36s. 

The Scot Abroad. Second Edition. Complete in One vol- 
ume. Crown Svo, xos. 6d. 

The Book-Hunter. A New and Choice Edition. With a 



Memoir of the Author, a Portrait etched by Mr Hole, A.R.S.A., and other 
Illustrations. In small 4to, on hand-made paper. 

BUTE. The Roman Breviary : Reformed by Order of the Holy 

(Ecumenical Council of Trent ; Published by Order of Pope St Pius V. ; ancl 
Revised by Clement VIII. and Urban VIII.; together with the Offices since 
granted. Translated out of Latin into English by John, Marquess of Bute, 
K.T. In 2 vols, crown Svo, cloth boards, edges uncut. £2^ 28. 

The Altus of St Columba. With a Prose Paraphrase and 



Notes. In paper cover, 28. 6d. 

BUTT. Miss Molly. By Beatrice May Butt. Cheap Edition, 2s. 



WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS. 7 

BUTT. Delicia. By the Author of 'Miss Molly.' Fourth Edi- 
tion. Crown 8vo, 78. 6d. 

Geraldine Hawthorne : A Sketch. By the Author of * Miss 

Molly.' Crown 8vo, 78. 6d. 

CAIRD. Sermons. By John Caird, D.D., Principal of the Uni- 
versity of Glasgow. Fourteenth Thousand. Fcap. 8vo, 58. 

Religion in Common Life. A Sermon preached in Crathie 

Church, October 14, 1855, before Her Majesty the Queen and Prince Albert. 
Published by Her Majesty's Command. Cbeap Edition, 3d. 

CAMPBELL, Life of Colin, Lord Clyde. See General Shadwbll, 

at page ao. 

CAMPBELL. Sermons Preached before the Queen at Balmoral. 

By the Rev. A. A. Campbell, Minister of Crathie. Published by Command 
of Her Majesty. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. 

CARLYLE. Autobiography of the Rev. Dr Alexander Carlyle, 

Minister of Inveresk. Gontainim? Memorials of tiie Men and Events of his 
Time. Edited by John Hill Bubtok. 8vo. Third Edition, with Portrait, 148. 

CARRICK. Koumiss ; or, Fermented Mare's Milk : and its Uses 

in the Treatment and Cure of Pulmonary Consumption, and other Wasting 
Diseases. With an Appendix on the best Methods of Fermenting Cow's Milk. 
By Oeorqe L. Carrick« M.D., L.R.C.S.E. and L.B.C.P.E., Physician to the 
British Embassy, St Petersburg, &c. Crown 8vo, los. 6d. 

CAUVIN. A Treasury of the English and German Languages. 

Compiled from the best Authors and Lexicographers in both Languages. 
Adapted to the Use of Schools, Students, Travellers, and Men of Business; 
and forming a Companion to aU Oerman-Euglish Dictionaries. By Joseph 
Cauvin, LL.D. a Ph.D., of the Uni\'Br8ity of Q5ttingen, &c. Crown 8vo, 
7s. 6d. 

CAVE-BROWN. Lambeth Palace and its Associations. By J. 

Cavb-Browk, M. a.. Vicar of Detling, Kent, and for many years Curate of Lam- 
beth Parish Church. With an Introduction by the Archbishop of Canterbury. 
8vo, with Illustrations, 21s. 

CHARTERIS. Canonicity ; or, Early Testimonies to the Existence 

and Use of the Books of the New Testament. Based on Eirchhoffer's ' Quel- 
lensammlung. ' Edited by A. H. Charteris, D.D., Professor of Biblical 
Criticism in the University of Edinburgh. 8vo, 18s. 

Life of the Rev. James Robertson, D.D., F.R.S.E., Pro- 
fessor of Divinity and Ecclesiastical History in the University of Edinburgh. 
By Professor Charteris. With Portrait. 8vo, xos. 6d. 

CHEVELEY NOVELS, THE. 

I. A Modern Minister. 2 vols, bound in cloth, with Twenty-six IllustrationB. 
zjs. 

II. Saul Weir. 2 vols, bound in cloth. With Twelve Illustrations by P. Bar- 
nard. z68. 

III. Dora Doree. [In Preparation. 

CHIROL. 'Twixt Greek and Turk. By M. Valentine Chirol. 

Post 8vo. With Frontispiece and Map, zos. 6d. 

CHURCH SERVICE SOCIETY. A Book of Common Order : 

Being Forms of Worship issued by the Church Service Society. Fourth Edi- 
tion, 5s. 

COLQUHOUN. The Moor and the Loch. Containing Minute 

Instructions in all Highland Sports, with Wanderings over Crag and Corrie, 
Flood and Fell. By John Colquuouk. Fifth Edition, greatly enliu-ged. 
With Illustrations. 2 vols, post 8vo, 268. 



8 LIST OF BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 



COTTERILL. The Genesis of the Church. By the Right. Rev. 

HsMRT CoTTSRiLLp D.D., Bishop of Edinbuigh. Demy 8vo, z6s. 

CRANSTOUN. The Elegies of Albius Tibullus. Translated into 

BngliBh Verse, with Life of the Poet, and Illustrative Notes. By Jahsb Gbak- 
STOUK, LL.D., Author of a Translation of ' Catullus.' Crown 8vo, 68. 6cL 

The Elegies of Sextus Propertius. Translated into English 

Verse, with Life of the Poet, and Illustrative Notes. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. 

CRAWFORD. The Doctrine of Holy Scripture respecting the 

Atonement. By the late Thomas J. Crawford, D.i)., Professor of Divinity in 
the University of Edinburgh. Third Edition. 8vo, X2S. 

The Fatherhood of God, Considered in its General and 

Special Aspects, and particularly in relation to the Atonement, with a 
SLeview of Recent Speculations cm the Subject Third Edition, Revised and 
Enlarged. 8vo, 9s. 



- The Preaching of the Cross, and other Sermons. 8vo, 

7S. 6d. 

The Mysteries of Christianity. Being the Baird Lecture for 



1874. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. 

DESCARTES. The Method, Meditations, and Principles of Philo- 
sophy of Descartes. Translated from the Original French and Latin. With a 
New Introductory Essay, Historical and Critical, on the Cartesian Philosophy. 
By John Veitch, LL.D., Professor of Logic and Rhetoric in the University of 
Glasgow. A New Edition, being the Eighth. Price 68. 6d. 

DICKSON. Japan ; being a Sketch of the History, Government, 

and Officers of the Empire. By Waltvb Dickson. 8vo, 15s. 
DU CANE. The Odyssey of Homer, Books I.-XII. Translated into 

English Verse. By Sir Chablss Du Cane, K.C.M.Q. 8vo, ios. 6d. 

DUDGEON. History of the Edinburgh or Queen's Regiment 

Light In&ntry Militia, now 3rd Battalion, The Royal Soots; with an 
Account of the Origin and Progress of the Militia, and a Brief Sketch of the 
old Royal Scots. By Major R. C. Dudgeon, Adjutant Srd Battalion The Royal 
Scots. Post 8vo, with Illustrations, zos. 6d. 

ELIOT. Impressions of Theophrastus Such. By George Eliot. 

New and cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s. 

Adam Bede. Illustrated Edition. 38. 6d., cloth. 

The Mill on the Floss. Illustrated Edition. 3s. 6d., cloth. 

Scenes of Clerical life. Illustrated Edition. 3s., cloth. 

Silas Mamer : The Weaver of Raveloe. Illustrated Edi- 
tion, as. 6d., cloth. 

Felix Holt, the Radical. Illustrated Edition. 3s. 6d., cloth. 

Romola. With Vignette. 3s. 6d., cloth. 

Middlemarch. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. 

Daniel Deronda. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. 

-^ — Works of George Eliot (Cabinet Edition). Complete and 

Uniform Edition, handsomely printed in a new type, 30 volumes, crown 8vo, 
price £5. The Volumes are also sold separately, price 58. each, vis. :— 

Romola. 2 vols. — Silas Mamer, The Lifted Veil, Brother Jacob, z voL — 
Adam Bede. 3 vols.— Scenes of Clerical Life. 3 vols.— The MiU on 
the Floss. 9 vols.— Felix Holt 9 vols.— Middlemarch. 3 vols. — 
Daniel Deronda. 3 vols —The Spanish Gypsy, x voL— Jubal, and 
other Poems, Old and New. i vol.— Theophrastus Such, x vol. 



WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS. 



ELIOT. The Spanish Gypsy. Crown 8vo, 5a, 

The Legend of Jubal, and other Poems, Old and New. 



New EditioiL Fcap. 8vo, 58., cloth. 

Wise, Witty, and Tender Sayings, in Prose and Verse. 

Selected from the Works of Oeobqe Eliot. Fifth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 6s. 

The George Eliot Birthday Book. Printed on fine paper, 

¥dth red border, and handsomely bound in cloth, gilt. Fcap. 8vo, cloth, 38. 6d. 
And in French morocco or Russia, 58. 

ESSAYS ON SOCIAL SUBJECTS. Originally published in 

the ' Saturday Review.' A New Edition. First and Second Series, a vols, 
crown Bvo, 6s. each. 

EWALD. The Crown and its Advisers ; or, Queen, Ministers, 
Lords, and Commons. By Alexander Chables Ewald, F.S.A. Crown 8vo, 
58. 

THE FAITHS OF THE WORLD. A Concise History of the 

Oreat Religious Systems of the World. By various Authors. Being the St 
Giles' Lectures — Second Series. Complete in one volume, crown 8vo, 5s. 

FARRER. A Tour in Greece in 1880. By Richard Farrer. 

With Twenty-seven full-page Ulustrations by Lord Windsor. Royal 8vo, 
witii a Map, sis. 

FERGUSSON. The Honourable Henry Erskine, Lord Advocate 

for Scotland. With Notices of certain of his Kinsfolks and of his Time. 
Compiled from Family Papers, and other sources of Information. By Lieu- 
tekant-Colokel Alex. Feroubson, late of the StiuBT of her Majesty's Indian 
Army. In One volume, large Bvo. With Portraits and other Illustra- 
tions. 31S. 6d. 

FERRIER. Philosophical Works of the late James F. Ferrier, 

B. A. Oxon. , Professor of Moral Philosophy and Political Economy, St Andrews. 
New Edition. Edited by Sir Alex. Qramt, Bart., D.C.L., and Professor 
LusHiNOTON. 3 vols, crowu 8vo, 34s. 6d. 

Institutes of Metaphysic. Third Edition. lofl. 6d. 

Lectures on the Early Greek Philosophy. Third Edition. 



zos. 6d. 

Philosophical Remains, including the Lectures on Early 

Greek Philosophy, a vols., 24s. 

FERRIER. George Eliot and Judaism. An Attempt to appreciate 

• Daniel Deronda.' By Professor David Kaufmakn, of the Jewish Theological 
Seminary, Buda-Pesth. Translated from the German by J. W. Ferrier. 
Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. 

FLINT. The Philosophy of History in Europe. Vol. I., contain- 
ing the History of that Philosophy in France and Germany. By Robert Fliiit, 
D.D., LL.D.y Professor of Divinity, University of Edinburgh. 8vo, xss. 



Theism. Being the Baird Lecture for 1876. Third Edition, 



Crown 8vo, 78. 6d. 



Anti-Theistic Theories. Being the Baird Lecture for 1877. 

Second Edition. Crown 8vo, xos. 6d. 

FORBES. The Campaign of Garibaldi in the Two Sicilies : A Per- 
sonal Narrative. By Charles Stuart Forbss, Commander, B.N. Post Svo, 
with Portraits, xas. 



10 



LIST OF BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 



FOREIGN CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS. Edited 

by Krs Oliphant. Price as. 6<L 



Now publiahsd :■ 



Dantk. By the Editor. 

VoLTAiRB. By Major-General Sir B. B. 

Hamley, K.C.M.G. 
Pasgai* JBy Principal Tulloch. 
Petrarch. By Henry Reeve, C.B. 
OoBTHB. By A. Hayward, Q.C. 
MoLikRB. By tiie Editor and F. Tarver, 

M. A. 
MoNTAioiTB. By Rev. W. L. CollinB, 

M.A. 
Rabblais. By Walter Besant, M.A. 
Caldbron. By B. J. Hasell. 



Saint Siuon. By Clifton W. Collins, M.A. 

Cbrvantbs. By the Editor. 

CoRNBiLLB AND Baoinb. By Hcmy M. 
Trollope. 

Madame db SbyiomA. By Miss Thack- 
eray. 

La Fontaine, and other French Fabit- 
LiSTS. By Rev. W. L. Collins, M.A. 

Schiller. By James Sime, M. A., Author 
of ' Lessing : his Life and Writings.' 

Tasro. By E. J. Hasell. 

Rousseau. By Henry Grey Oraham. 



FRANZOS. The Jews of Barnow. Stories by Karl Emil Fran- 

zos. Translated by M. W. Macdowall. Crown 8vo, 6s. 

QALT. AnnalB of the Parish. By John Galt. Fcap^ 8vo, 28. 

The Provost. Fcap. 8vo, 28. 

Sir Andrew Wylie. Fcap. 8vo, 28. 

The Entail ; or, The Laird of Grippy. Fcap. 8vo, 2s. 

GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE CHURCH OF SCOTLAND. 

Family Prayers. Authorised by the General Assembly of 

the Church of Scotland. A New Edition, crown 8vo, }n large type, 4s. 6d. 
Another Edition, crown 8vo, as. 

 Prayers for Social and Family Worship. For the Use of 

Soldiers, Sailors, Colonists, and Sojoamers in India, and other Persons, at 
home and abroad, who are deprived of the ordinary servicea of a Christian 
Ministry. Cheap Edition, xs. 6d. 

The Scottish HymnaL Hymns for Public Worship. Pub- 
lished for Use in Churches by Authority of the General Assembly. Various 
sizes — viz. : x. Large type, for pulpit use, cloth, 38. 6d. 2. Longprimer tyi)e, 
cloth, red edges, xs. 6d. ; French morocco, 28. 6d. ; calf, 6s. 3. Bourgeois 
type, cloth, red edges, xs. ; French morocco, 28. 4. Minion tyi)e, limp cloth, 
6d. ; French morocco, xs. 6d. 5. School Edition, in paper cover, 2d. 6. Chil- 
dren's Hymnal, paper cover, id. No. 2, bound with the Psalms and Para- 
phrases, cloth, 3s. ; French morocco, 48. 6d. ; calf, 7s. 6d. No. 8, bound with 
the Fsidms and Paraphrases, cloth, 2s. ; French morocco, 3s. 

The Scottish Hymnal, with Music. Selected by the Com- 
mittees on Hymns and on Psalmody. The harmonies arranged by W. H. Monk. 
Cloth, xs. 6d. ; French morocco, 3s. 6d. The same in the Tonic So1-£ei Notation, 
xs. 6d. anil 3s. 6d. 



The Scottish Hymnal, with Fixed Tune for each Hymn. 

Longprimer type, 3s. 6d. 

GERARD. Reata: What's in a Name? By E. D. Gerard. 

New Edition. In one volume, crown 8vo, 6s. 

Beggar my Neighbour. A Novel. New Edition^ com- 
plete in one volume, crown 8vo, 6s. 

GLEIG. The Subaltern. By G. R. Glekj, M.A., late Chaplain- 
General of Her Majesty's Forces. Originally published in ' Blackwood's Maga- 
zine.' Library Edition. Revised and Corrected, with a New Preface. Crown 
8vo, 7s. 6d. 

GOETHE'S FAUST. Translated into EngUsh Verse by Sir Theo- 

DORB Martin, K.C.B. Second Edition, post 8vo, 68. Cheap Edition, fcap., 
3s. 6d. 



WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS. 11 



GOETHE. Poems and Ballads of Goethe. Translated by Professor 
Attoun and Sir Theodore Mabtin, K.C.B. Third Edition, fcap. 8vo, 68. 

GORDON GUMMING. At Home in Fiji. By C. F. Gordon 

CuMMiNQ, Author of ' From the Hebrides to the Himalayas. ' Fourth Edition, 
complete in one volume post 8vo. With Illustrations and Map. 7s. 6d. 

A Lady's Cruise in a French Man-of-War. New and 

Cheaper Edition. In one volume, 8vo. With Illustrations and Hap. xas. 6d. 

Fire -Fountains. With Map and numerous Illustrations. 



In two vols, post 8vo, 35s. 

GRANT. Bush-Life in Queensland. By A. C. Grant. New 

Edition. In one volume crown 8vo, 6s. 

GRANT. Memorials of the Castle of Edinburgh. By James 

Grant. A New Edition. Grown 8vo, with 13 Engravings, 2s. 

HAMERTON. Wenderholme : A Story of Lancashire and York- 
shire Life. By Philip Gilbert Hamerton, Author of *A Painter's Camp.* A 
New Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. 

HAMILTON. Lectures on Metaphysics. By Sir William Hamil- 
ton, Bart, Professor of Logic and Metaphysics in the University of Edinburgh. 
Edited by the Rev. H. L. Mansel, B.D., LL.D., Dean of St Paul's ; and John 
Veitch, M.A., Professor of Logic and Rhetoric, Glasgow. Sixth Edition, s 
vols. 8vo, 248. 

Lectures on Logic. Edited by the Same. Third Edition. 

a vols. 243. 

Discussions on Philosophy and Literature, Education and 



tJniversity Reform. Third Edition. 8vo, 21s. 

Memoir of Sir William Hamilton, Bart., Professor of Logic 

and Metaphysics in the University of Edinburgh. By Professor Veitch of the 
University of Glasgow. 8vo, with Portrait, 18s. 

HAMILTON. Annals of the Peninsular Campaigns. By Captain 

Thomas Hamilton. Edited by F. Hardman. 8vo, i6s. Atlas of Maps to 
illustrate the Campaigns, 12s. 

HAMLEY. The Operations of War Explained and Illustrated. By 
Ma^ior- General Sir Edward Bruce Hamley, K.C.M.G. Fourth Edition, 
revised throughout. 4to, with numerous Illustrations, ^os. 

 Thomas Carlyle : An Essay. Second Edition. Crown 

8vo. 2S. 6d. 

The story of the Campaign of Sehastopol. Written in the 

Gamp. With Illustrations drawn in Camp by the Author. 8vo, 21s. 

On Outposts. Second Edition. 8vo, 2s. 

Wellington's Career ; A Military and Political Summary. 

Crown 8vo, 2s. 

Lady Lee's Widowhood. Crown 8vo, 2S. 6d. 

Our Poor Relations. A Philozoic Essav. With Illus- 



trations, chiefly by Ernest Griset. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 3s. 6d. 

HAMLEY. Guilty, or Not GuUty 1 A Tale. By Major-General 

W. G. Hamlet, late of the Royal Engineers. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. 

The House of Lys : One Book of its History. A Tale. 



Second Edition. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 178. 



Traseaden Hall. "When George the Third was King." 



New Edition, crown 8vo, 6s. 



12 LIST OF BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 



HANDY HOKSE-BOOK ; or, Practical Instructions in Riding, 

Driving, and the Qeneral Care and Management of Horses. By 'Haoemta.' 
Ninth Edition, with 6 Engravings, 4s. 6d. 

Bt the Same. 
Our Domesticated Dogs : their Treatment in reference to Food, 

Diseases, Habits, Punishment, Accomplishments. Crown 8vo, as. 6d. 

HARBORD. Definitions and Diagrams in Astronomy and Navi- 
gation. By the Rev. J. B. Harbord, M.A., Assistant Director of Education, 
Admiralty, zs. 

— ^— Short Sermons for Hospitals and Sick Seamen. Fcap. 8vo, 

cloth, 48. 6d. 

HARDMAN. Scenes and Adventures in Central America. Edited 

by Frederick Hardm an. Crown 8vo. 6s. 
HAY. The Works of the Right Rev. Dr George Hay, Bishop of 

Edinburgh. Edited under the Supervision of the Right Rev. Bishop Strain. 
With Memoir and Portrait of the Author. 5 vols, crown 8vo, bound in extra 
cloth, £if is. Or, sold separately — viz. : 

The Sincere Christian Instructed in the Faith of Christ 

from the Written Word. 2 vols., 8s. 

The Devout Christian Instructed in the Law of Christ 

from the Written Word, a vols., 8s. 

The Pious Christian Instructed in the Nature and Practice 



of the Principal Exercises of Piety, x vol., 4s. 

HEATLEY. The Horse-Owner's Safeguard. A Handy Medical 
Guide for every Man who owns a Horse. By O. S. Heatley, V.S. Crown 
Svo, 58. 

The Stock-Owner's Guide. A Handy Medical Treatise for 

every Man who owns an Ox or a Cow. Crown Svo. 

HEMANS. The Poetical Works of Mrs Hemans. Copyright Edi- 
tions. 

One Volume, royal Svo, 58. 

The Same, with Illustrations engraved on Steel, bound in cloth, gilt edges, 
7s. 6d. 

Six Volumes in Three, fcap., Z2S. 6d. 

Selbot Poems of Mrs Hemans. Fcap., cloth, gilt edges, 38. 

HOLE. A Book about Roses : How to Grow and Show Them. By 

the Rev. Canon Hole. With coloured Frontispiece by the Hon. Mrs Francklin. 
Seventh Edition, revised. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d. 

HOMER. The Odyssey. Translated into English Verse in the 
Spenserian Stanza. By Philip Stanhope Wobslgy. Third Edition, a vols, 
fcap., 12S. 

The Iliad. Translated by P. S. Worsley and Professor 

CoNiNOTON. 2 vols, crown Svo, 21s. 

HOME PRAYERS. By Ministers of the Church of Scotland and 

Members of the Church Service Society. Second Edition. Fcap. Svo, 38. 

HOSACK. Mary Queen of Scots and Her Accusers. Containing a 

Variety of Documents never bpfore published. By John Hosack, Barrister- 
at-Law. A New and Enlarged Edition, with a Photograph from the Bust on 
the Tomb in Westminster Abbey. 2 vols. Svo, £1^ is. 

HUNTER. Lady's Drive from Florence to Cherbourg ; or, Santo, 

Luria, & Co. : Where they Stayed, and what they Paid. By E. Hunter. One 
volume, crown Svo. [in the Press. 



WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS. 13 



INDEX GEOGRAPHICUS : Being a List, alphabetically arranged, 

of the Principal Places on the Olobe, with the Countries and Subdivisions of 
the Countries in which they are situated, and their Latitudes and Longitudes. 
Applicable to all Modem Atlases and Maps. Imperial 8vo, pp. 676, a is. 

JAMIESON. The Laird's Secret. By J. H. Jamieson. In 2 vols., 

crown 8vo, 17s. 

JEAN JAMBON. Our Trip to Blunderland ; or, Grand Excursion 

to Bluudertown and Back. By Jean Jambon. With Sixty Illustrations 
designed by Charles Doyle, engraved by Dalziel. Fourth Thousand. 
Handsomely bound in cloth, gilt edges, 6s. 6d. Cheap Edition, cloth, 3s. 6d. 
In boards, 2s. 6d. 

JOHNSON. The Scots Musical Museum. Consisting of upwards 

of Six Hundred Songs, with proper Basses for the Pianoforte, Originally pub- 
lished by James Johnson ; and now accompanied with Copious Notes and 
Illustrations of the Lyric Poetry and Music of Scotland, by the late William 
Sten house; with additional Notes and Illustrations, by David Laino and 
G. E. Shabpe. 4 vols. 8vo, Roxburghe binding, jCa, las. 6d. 

JOHNSTON. The Chemistry of Common Life. By Professor 

J. F. W. Johnston. New Edition, Revised, and brought down to date. By 
Arthur Herbert Church, M.A. Oxon. ; Author of 'Food: its Sources. 
Constituents, and Uses; ' 'The Laboratory Guide for Agricultural Students ; 
'Plain Words about Water,' &c. Illustrated with Maps and 102 Engravings 
on Wood. Complete in one volume, crown Svo, pp. 618, 7s. 6d. 

Elements of Agricultural Chemistry and Geology. Thir- 
teenth Edition, Revised, and brought down to date. By Charles A. 
Cameron, M.D., F.RC.S.I., &c. Fcap. 8vo, 6s. 6d. 

Catechism of Agricultural Chemistry and Geology. An 

entirely New Edition, revised and enlarged, by Charles A. Cameron, M.D., 
F.R.C.S.I., &c. Eighty-first Thousand, with numerous Illustrations, is. 

JOHNSTON. Patrick Hamilton : a Tragedy of the Reformation 

in S(!otland, 1528. By J. P. Johnston. Crown 8vo, with Two Etchings by 
the Author, 5s. 

KEITH ELPHINSTONE. Memoir of the Honourable George 

Keith Elphinstone, K.B., Viscount Keith of Stonehaven Marlschal, Admiral 
of the Red.— See Alexander Allardyce, at page 3. 

KING. The Metamorphoses of Ovid. Translated in English Blank 

Verse. By Henry Kino, M.A., Fellow of Wadliam College, Oxford, and of 
the Inner Temple, Bamster-at-Law. Crown. 8vo, los. 6d. 

KINGLAKE. History of the Invasion of the Crimea. By A. W. 

KiNQLAKE. Cabinet Edition. Seven Volumes, crown 8vo, at 68. each. The 
Volumes respectively contam :— 

I. The Origin of the War between the Czar and the Sultan. 
II. Russia Met and Invaded. With 4 Maps and Plans. 

III. The Battle of the Alma. With 14 Maps and Plans. 

IV. Sebastopol AT Bay. With.io Maps and Plans. 

V. The Battle of Balaclava! With 10 Maps and Flans. 
VI. The Battle of Inkerman. With xx Maps and Flans. 
VII. Winter Troubles. With Map. 



- History of the Invasion of the Crimea. Vol. VI. Winter 

Troubles. Demy 8vo, with a Map, x6s. 

Eothen. A New Edition, uniform with the Cabinet Edition 



of the ' History of the Crimean War,' price 68. 

KNOLLYS. The Elements of Field-Artillery. Designed for the 

Use of Infantry and Cavalry Officers. By Henry Knollys, Captain Royal 
Artillery; Author of 'From Sedan to Saarbrttck,' Editor of 'Incidents in the 
Sepoy War,' && With Engravings. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. 



14 LIST OP BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 



LAKEMAN. What I saw in Kaffir -land. By Sir Stephen 

Lakjocah (Mazbab Faoha). Post 8vo, 8b. 6d. 

LAVERGNE. The Rural Economy of England, Scotland, and Ire- 
land. By Leomce db Laverons. Translated from the French. With Notes 
by a SoottiAh Farmer. 8vo, zas. 

LEE. Lectures on the History of the Church of Scotland, from the 

Reformation to the Revolution Settlement. By the late Very Rev. John Leb, 
D.D. , LL.D., Principal of the University of Edinbuifch. With Notes and Ap- 
pendices trom the Author's Papers. Edited by the Rev. William Lee, D.D. 
9 vols. 8vo, azs. 

LEE-HAMILTON. Poems and Transcripts. By Eugene Lee- 

Hamilton. Crown 8vo, 6s. 

LEWES. The Physiology of Common Life. By George H. 

Lbwbs, Author of ' Sea-side Studies,' &c. Illustrated with numerous Engrav- 
ings, a veil., zas. 

LOCKHART. Doubles and Quits. By Laurence W. M. Lock- 
hart. With Twelve Illustrations. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. 

Fair to See : a Novel. Seventh Edition, crown 8vo, 6s. 

Mine is Thine : a Novel. Seventh Edition, crown 8vo, 6s. 

LORIMER. The Institutes of Law : A Treatise of the Principles 

of Jurisprudence as determined by Nature. By James Lobimbb, Regius 
Professor of Public Law and of the Law of Nature and Nations in the Uni- 
versity of Edinburgh. New Edition, revised throughout, and much enlarged. 
8vo, i8s. 

The Institutes of the Law of Nations. A Treatise of the 

Jural Relation of Separate Political Communities. 8vo. [In the Press. 

LYON. History of the Rise and Progress of Freemasonry in Scot- 
land. By David Hurray Lyon, Secretary to the Grand Lodge of Scotland. 
In small quarto. Illustrated with numerous Portraits of Eminent Members of 
the Craft, and Facsimiles of Ancient Charters and other Curious Documents. 
jQit IIS. 6d. 

M'COMBIE. Cattle and Cattle-Breeders. By William M*Combie, 

Tillyfour. A New and Cheaper Edition, as. 6d., cloth. 

MACRAE. A Handbook of Deer - Stalking. By Alexander 

Macras, late Forester to Lord Henry Bentinck. With Introduction by 
J loRATio Ross, Esq. Fcap. 8vo, with two Photographs ftom Life. 3s. 6d. 

M'CRIE. Works of the Rev. Thomas M'Crie, D.D. Uniform Edi- 
tion. Four vols, crown 8vo, S4S. 

-^— Life of John Knox. Containing Illustrations of the His- 
tory of the Reformation in Scotland. Crown 8vo, 6s. Another Edition, 3s. 6d. 

Life of Andrew Melville. Containing Illustrations of the 

Ecclesiastical and Literary History of Scotland in the Sixteenth and Seven- 
teenth Centuries. Crown 8vo, 6s. 



- History of the Progress and Suppression of the Reforma- 
tion in Italy in the Sixteenth Century. Crown 8vo, 4s. 

- History of the Progress and Suppression of the Reforma- 
tion in Spain in the Sixteenth Century. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. 

- Sermons, and Review of the * Tales of My Landlord.' Crown 

8vo, 6s. 

- Lectures on the Book of Esther. Fcap. 8vo, 58. 



MACDOWALL. The Jews of Barnow. See Franzos, at page 10. 



WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS. 15 



MCINTOSH. The Book of the Garden. By Charles M'Intosh, 

formerly Curator of the Royal Gardens of his Me^esty the King of the Belgians, 
and lately of those of his Grace the Duke of Buccleuch, K.G., at Dalkeith Pal- 
ace. Two large vols, royal 8vo, embellished with 1350 Engravings. £4, 78. 6d* 

VoL I. On the Formation of Gardens and Construction of Garden Edifices. 776 
pages, and 1073 Engravings, £2, zos. 

VoL II. Practical Gardening. 868 pages, and 279 Engravings, jQi, xjs. 6d. 

MACKAY. A Manual of Modem Geography ; Mathematical, Phys- 
ical, and Political. By the Rev. Alexander Mackay, LL.D., F.R.G.S. New 
and Greatly Improved Edition. Crown 8vo, pp. 688. 7B. 6d. 



- Elements of Modem Geography. 47th Thousand, revised 

to the present time. Crown 8vo, pp. 300, 3s. 

- The Intermediate Geography. Intended as an Interme- 
diate Book between the Author's ' Outlines of Geography,' and ' Elements of 
Geography.' Eighth Edition, crown 8vo, pp. 234. 2s. 

- Outlines of Modern Geography. i42d Thousand, re- 
vised to the present time. x8mo, pp. xx2, is. 

First Steps in Geography. Sad Thousand. i8mo, pp. 



56. Sewed, 4d. ; cloth, 6d. 

Elements of Physiography and Physical Geography. 

With Express Reference to the Instructions recently issued by the Science and 
Art Department, xgth Thousand. Crown 8vo, xs. 6d. 

Facts and Dates ; or, the Leading Events in Sacred and 

Profane History, and the Principal Facts in the various Physical Sciences. 
The Memory being aided throughout by a Simple and Natural Method. For 
Schools and Private Reference. New Edition, thoroughly Revised. Crown 
8vo, 3s. 6d. 

MACKENZIE. Studies in Roman Law. With Comparative Views 

of the Laws of France, England, and Scotland. By Lord Mackbnzie, one of 
the Judges of the Court of Session in Scotland. Fifth Edition, Edited by 
John Kirkpatbigk, Esq., M.A. Cantab.; Dr Jur. Heidelb.; LL.B., Edin.; 
Advocate. 8vo. las. 

MANNERS. Notes of an Irish Tour in 1846. By Lord John 

Manners, M.P., O.C.B. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. 

Impressions of Bad-Homburg. Comprising a Short Ac- 
count of the Women's Associations of Gtormany under the Bed Cross. By 
Lady John Manners. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. 

MARMORNE. The Story is told by Adolphus Sbgrave, the 

youngest of three Brothers. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. 68. 

MARSHALL. French Home Life. By Frederic Marshall, 

Second Edition. 5s. 

MARSHMAN. History of India. From the Earliest Period to the 

Close of the India Company's Government ; with an Epitome of Subsequent 
Events. By John Clark Marshman, C.S.I. Abridged from the Author's 
larger work. Second Edition, revised. Crown 8vo, with Map, 6s. 6d. 

MARTIN. Goethe's Faust Translated by Sir Theodore Martin, 

K.C.B. Second Edition, crown 8vo, 6s. Cheap Edition, 3s. 6d. 

The Works of Horace. Translated into English Verse, 

with Life and Notes. In a vols, crown 8vo, printed on hand-made paper, 2x8. 

Poems and Ballads of Heinrich Heine. Done into Eng- 
lish Verse. Second Edition. Printed on papier vergi^ crown 8vo, 8s. 

Catullus. With Life and Notes. Second Edition, post 8vo, 

78. 6d. 

The Vita Nuova of Dante. With an Introduction and 



Notes. Second Edition, crown 8vo, 5s. 



16 LIST OF BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 



MAETIN. Aladdin: A Dramatic Poem. By Adam Obhlen- 

BCHLAEGBB. Fcap. SYO, 5t. 

Correggio : A Tragedy. By Oehlenschlaeger. With 

Notes. Fcap. 8vo, 31. 

Kmg Rene's Daughter: A Danish Lyrical Drama. By 



Henrik Hertz. Second Edition, fcap., as. 6d. 

MEIKLEJOHN. An Old Educational Reformer— Dr Bell. By 

J. M. D. MEIKLEJOHN, M.A., Professor of the Theory, History, and Practice 
of Education in the University of St Andrews. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. 

MICHEL. A Critical Inquiry into the Scottish Language. "With 

the view of Illastrating the Rise and Progress of Civilisation in Scotland. By 
Francisque-Michel, F.S a. Lond. and Scot., Correspondant de rin»titutde 
France, &c. In One handsome Qnarto Volume, printed on band-made paper, 
and appropriately bound in Roxburgbe style. Price 66s. 

MICH IE. The Larch : Being a Practical Treatise on its Culture 
and General Management. By Christopher Youno Miohie, Forester, Cullen 
House. Crown 8vo, with Illustrations. 7s. 6d. 

MINTO. A Manual of English Prose Literature, Biographical 

and Critical : designed mainly to show Characteristics of Style. By W. Minto, 
M A., Professor of Logic in the Univerbity of Aberdeen. Second Edition, 
revised. Crown 8vo, 78. 6d. 

Characteristics of English Poets, from Chaucer to Shirley. 

Crown 8vo, 98. 

MITCHELL. Biographies of Eminent Soldiers of the last Four 

Centuries. By MiOof-^en^r&l John Mitghelx., Author of 'Life of Wallenstein.' 
With a Memoir of the Author. 8vo, 9s. 

MOIR. Poetical Works of D. M. Moir (Delta). With Memoir by 
Thomas Aird, and Portrait. Second Edition, 3 vols. fcap. 8vo, Z2S. 

Domestic Verses. New Edition, fcap. 8vo, cloth gilt, 43. 6d. 

Lectures on the Poetical Literature of the Past Half-Cen- 
tury. Third Edition, fcap. 8vo, 5s. 

Life of Mansie Wauch, Tailor in Dalkeith. With 8 



Illustrations on Steel, by the late Geokoe Cruikshank. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d. 
Another Edition, fcap. 8vo, is. 6d. 

MOMERIE. The Origin of Evil ; and other Sermons. Preached 

in St Peter's, Cranley Gardens. By the Rev. A. W. Momerie, M.A., DSo., 
Professor of Logic and Metaphysics in King's College, London. Secoud 
Edition, enlarged. Crown 8vo, 5s. 

Defects of Modern Christianity, and other Sermons. 

Crown 8vo. 

MONTAGUE. Campaigning in South Africa. RemiAiscences of 
an Offtcer in 1870. By Captain W. E. Montague, 94th Regunent, Author of 
* Claude Meadowleigh,' &c. 8vo, los. 6d. 

MONTALEMBERT. Count de Montalemberfs History of the 

Monks of the West. From St Benedict to St Bernard. Translated by Mrs 
Olipbant. 7 vols. 8vo, £3^ 17s. 6d. 

Memoir of Count de Montalembert. A Chapter of Re- 
cent French History. By Mrs Oliphant, Author of tlie 'Life of Edward 
Irving,' &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. £1, 4s. 

MORE THAN KIN. By M. P. Crown 8vo, 78. 6d. 
MURDOCH. Manual of the Law of Insolvency and Bankruptcy : 

Comprehending a Summary of the Law of Insolvency, Notour Bankniptcy, 
Composition - contncts. Trust-deeds, Cessios, and Sequestrations; and the 
Winding-up of Joint-Stock Companies in Scotland ; with Annotations on the 
various Insolvency and Bankruptcy Statutes ; and with Forms of Procedure 
applicable to these Subjects. By James Murdoch, Member of the Faculty of 
Procurators in Glasgow. Fourth Edition, Revised and Enlai|(ed, 8vo, ;^i. 



WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS. 17 



MY TRIVIAL LIFE AND MISFORTUNES : A Gossip with 

no Plot in Particular. By A Plain Woman. 3 vols, post 8vo. [In the Press. 

NEAVES. A Glance at some of the Principles of Comparative 

Philology. As illustrated in the Latin and Anglican Forms of 8x)eeclL By 
the Hon. Lord Nbavbs. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. 



- Songs and Verses, Social and Scientific. By an Old Con- 
tributor to 'Maga.' Fifth Edition, fcap. 8vo, 48. 

The Greek Anthology. Being Vol. XX. of * Ancient Clas- 



sics for PJnulish Readers.' Crown Svo, 2S. 6d. 

NEW VIRGINIANS, THE. By the Author of ' Estelle Russell,' 

' Junia,' &,c. In 2 vols., post Svo, iSs. 

NICHOLSON. A Manual of Zoology, for the Use of Students. 

With a General Introduction on the Principles of Zooloiry. By Henrv Al- 
LEYNR Nicholson, M.D., D.Sc, F.L.S., F.G.S., Re^us Professor of Natural 
History in the University of Aberdeen. Sixth £^ition, revised and enlarged. 
Crown Svo, pp. 816, with 394 Engravings on Wood, 14s. 

Text-Book of Zoology, for the Use of Schools. Third Edi- 
tion, enlarged. Crown Svo, with 188 Engravings on Wood, 68. 

Introductory Text-Book of Zoologj'^, for the Use of Junior 

Classes. Fifth Edition, revised and enlarged, witii 156 Engravings, 3s. 

Outlines of Natural History, for Beginners ; being Descrip- 
tions of a Progressive Series of Zoological Types. Second Edition, with 
Engravings, is. 6d. 

A Manual of Palaeontology, for the Use of Students. 

With a General Introduction on the Principles of Palseontology. Second 
Edition. Revised and greatly enlai^ged. 3 vols. Svo, with 722 Engravings, 

£2, 2S. 

The Ancient Life-History of the Earth. An Outline of the 

Principles and Leading Facts of Palseontological Science. Crown Svo, with 
numerous Engravings, los. 6d. 

On the "Tabulate Corals" of the Palaeozoic Period, with 

Critical Descriptions of Illustrative Species. Illustrated with 15 Lithograph 
Plates and numerous Engravings. Super-royal Svo, 21s. 

On the Structure and Affinities of the Genus Monticulipora 

and its Sub-Genera, with Critical Descriptions of Illustrative Species. Illus- 
trated with numerous Engravings on wood and lithographed Plates. Super- 
royal Svo, iSs. 

Synopsis of the Classification of the Animal Kingdom. 



In one volume Svo, with 106 Illustrations, 68. 

NICHOLSON. Communion with Heaven, and other Sermons. 
By the late Mazwkll Nicholson, D.D., Minister of St Stephen's, Edinbur^. 
Crown Svo, 5s. 6d. 

Rest in Jesus. Sixth Edition. Fcap. Svo, 4s. 6d. 

OLIPHANT. The Land of Gilead. With Excursions in the 

Lebanon. By Laurence Oltphant, Author of ' Lord Elgin's Mission to 
China and Japan,' &;c. With Illustrations and Maps. Demy Svo, 2x8. 

The Land of Khemi. Post 8vo, with Illustrations, los. 6d. 

Traits and Travesties ; Social and PoliticaL Post 8vo, 

los. 6d. 

Piccadilly : A Fragment of Contemporary Biography, With 



Eight Illustrations bv Richard Doyle. Fifth Edition, 4B. 6d. Cheap Edition, 
In paper cover, as. 6d. 

OLIPHANT. Historical Sketches of the Keign of George Second. 

By Mrs Oliphant. Third Edition, 6s. 

The Story of Valentine ; and his Brother. 58., cloth. 



18 LIST OF BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 

OLIPHANT. Katie Stewart. 28. 6d. 

Salem Chapel. 28. 6d., cloth. 

The Perpetual Curate. 28. 6d., cloth. 

Miss Marjoribanks. 28. 6<i., cloth. 

- The Rector, and the Doctor's Family, is. 6d., cloth. 

John : A Love Story. 28. 6d., cloth. 

OSBORN. Narratives of Voyage and Adventure. By Admiral 

Sherard Osborn, C.B. 3 vols, crown 8vo, 128. 

OSSIAN. The Poems of Ossian in the Original Gaelic. With a 

Literal Translation into English, and a Dissertation on the Authenticity of the 
Poems. By the Rev. Archibaxj) Clerk. 2 toIs. imperial Svo, £1^ xis. 6d. 

OSWALD. By Fell and Fjord ; or, Scenes and Studies in Iceland. 
By B. J. Oswald. Post Svo, with Illustrations. 78. 6d. 

PAGE. Introductory Text-Book of Geology. By David Page, 

LL.D., Professor of Geology in the Durham University of Physical Science, 
Newcastle. With Engravings on Wood and Glossarial Index. Eleventh 
Edition, 28. 6d. 

— ^ Advanced Text-Book of Geology, Descriptive and Indus- 
trial. With Engravings, and Glossary of Scientific Terms. Sixth Edition, re- 
vised and enlarged, 73. 6d. 

Geology for General Readers. A Series of Popular Sketches 

In Geology and Palaeontology. Third Edition, enlarged, 6s. 

Chips and Chapters. A Book for Amateurs and Young 

Geologists. 5s. 

Economic Geology ; or, Geology in its relation to the Arts 

and Manufactures. With Engravings, and Coloured Map of the British Islands. 
Crown Svo, 7s. 6d. 

Introductory Text -Book of Physical Geography. With 

Sketch-Maps and Illustrations. Edited by Charles Lap worth, F.G.S., &c., 
Professor of Geology and Mineralogy in the Mason Science College, Birming- 
ham, zoth Edition. 2s. 6d. 



Advanced Text-Book of Physical Geography. Second Edi- 
tion. With Engravings. 5s. 

PAGET. Paradoxes and Puzzles : Historical, Judicial, and Literary. 
Now for the first time published in Collected Foim. By John Paget, Barris- 
ter-at-Law. 8vo, Z2S. 

PATON. Spindrift. By Sir J. Noel Paton. Fcap., cloth, 58. 
— ^ Poems by a Painter. Fcap., cloth, 58. 

PATTERSON. Essays in History and Art. By R. Hogarth 

Patterson. Svo, zas. 

^—^ The New Golden Age, and Influence of the Precious Metals 

upon the World. 2 vols. Svo, 31s. 6d. 

PAUL. History of the Royal Company of Archers, the Queen's 

Body-Guard for Scotland. By James Balfour Paul, Advocate of the Scottish 
Bar. Grown 4to, with Portraits and other Illustrations. >^3, 2s. 

PAUL. Analysis and Critical Interpretation of the Hebrew Text of 

the Book of Genesis. Preceded by a Hebrew Grammar, and Dissertations on 
the Genuineness of the Pentateuch, and on the Structure of the Hebrew Lan- 
guage. By the Rev. William Paul, A.M. Svo, i8s. 

PETTIGREW. Tlje Handy Book of Bees, and their Profitable 

Management. By A. Pbttigrew. Fourth EdiUon, Bnlarged, with Engxay- 
ings. Grown Svo, 3s. 6d. 



WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS. 19 

PHILLIMORE. Uncle Z. By Greville Phillimore, Rector of 

Henley-on-Thames. Crown 8vo, 79. 6d. 

Only a Black Box. Crown 8vo, 78. 6d. [in the Press, 

PHILOSOPHICAL CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS. 

Companion Series to Ancient and Foreign Classics for English Readers. 
Edited by William Knight, LL.D., Professor of Moral Philosophy, Uni- 
yersity of St Andrews. In crown 8vo yolumes, with portraits, price 3s. 6d. 

1. Dkscartbs. By Professor Mahafiy, Dublin. 

2. Butler. By the Rey. W. Lucas Collins, M. A., Honorary Canon of Peterborough. 
8. Berkelbt. By Professor A. Campbell Eraser, Edinburgh. 

4. FiCHTB. By Professor Adamson, Owens College, Manchester. 

6. Kant. By William Wallace, M.A., LL.D., Merton College, Oxford. 

6. Hamilton. By Professor Veitch, Qlasgow. 

POLLOK. The Course of Time : A Poem. By Robert Pollok, 

A.M. Small fcap. 8vo, cloth gilt, 28. 6d. The Cottage Edition, samo, sewed, 
8d. The Same, cloth, gilt edges, is. 6d. Another Edition, with Illustrations 
by Birket Foster and others, fcap., gilt cloth, 38. 6d., or with edges gilt, 4s. 

PORT ROYAL LOGIC. Translated from the French : with Intro- 
duction, Notes, and Appendix. By Thomas Spencer Baynes, LL.D., Pro- 
fessor in the Uniyersity of St Andrews. Eighth Edition, x2mo, 4s. 

POST-MORTEM. Third Edition, is. 

By the same Axtthor. 

The Autobiography of Thomas Allen. 3 vols, post 8vo> 

258. 6d. 

POTTS AND DARNELL. Aditus Faciliores : An easy Latin Con- 
struing Book, with Complete Vocabulary. By A. W. Potts, M.A., LL.D., 
Head-Master of the Fettes College, Edinburgh, and sometime Fellow of St 
John's College, Cambridge; and the Rev. C. Darnell, M.A., Head-Master of 
Cargilfleld Preparatory School, Edinburgh, and late Scholar of Pembroke and 
Downing Colleges, Cambridge. Seventh Edition, fcap. 8vo, 3s. 6d. 

Aditus Faciliores Graeci. An easy Greek Construing Book, 



with Complete Vocabulary. Third Edition, fcap. 8vo, 38. 

PRINGLE. The Live-Stock of the Farm. By Robert 0. Pringlb. 

Third Edition, crown 8vo. [In the Press. 

PUBLIC GENERAL STATUTES AFFECTING SCOTLAND, 

from 1707 to 1847, with Chronological Table and Index. 3 vols, large 8vo, 

PUBLIC GENERAL STATUTES AFFECTING SCOTLAND, 

COLLECTION OF. Published Annually with General Index. 

RAMSAY. Rough Recollections of Military Service and Society. 

By Lieut-CoL Balcarrbs D. Wardlaw Ramsat. Two vols, post 8vo, 21s. 

RANKINE. A Treatise on the Rights and Burdens Incident to 

the Ownership of Lands and other Heritages in Scotland. By John Ran- 
KiNK, M.A., Advocate. Large 8vo, 40s. 

REID. A Handy Manual of German Literature. By M. F. Reid. 

For Schools, Civil Service Competitions, and University Lucal Examinations. 
Fcap. 8vo, 3s. 

RIMMER. The Early Homes of Prince Albert. By Alfred 

RiMM ER, Author of * Our Old Country Towns,' Ac. Beautifully Illustrated 
with Tinted Plates and numerous Engravings on Wood. One volume 8vo. 

[In the Press. 

ROBERTSON. Orellana, and other Poems. By J. Logie Robert- 
son. Fcap. 8vo. Printed on hand-made paper. 6s. 

Our Holiday Among the HiUs. By James and Janet 

LooiB Robertson. Fcap. 8vo, 3s. 6d. 



20 LIST OF BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 



RUSSELL. The Haigs of Bemersyde. A Family History. By 
John Russell Large octavo, with Illustrations. 2x8. 

RUSTOW. The War for the Rhine Frontier, 1870 : Its Political 

and Military History. By Col. W. Rdstow. Tnuislated fix)m the (Jennan, 
by JoHK Layland Needham, Lieutenant R.M. Artillery. 3 vols. 8vo, with 
Maps and Plans, ;^z, iis. 6d. 

SANDERS. Matthew Dale, Farmer. By Mrs Sanders (A. L. 0. S.) 

2 vols, post 8vo, 178. 

SCHETKY. Ninety Years of Work and Play. Sketches from the 

Public and Private Career of John Christian Schetky, late Marine Painter in 
Ordinary to the Queen. By his Daughter. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. 

SCOTCH LOCH FISHING. By " Black Palmer." Crown 8vo, 

interleaved with blank pages, 4s. 

SCOTTISH NATURALIST, THE. A Quarterly Magazine of 

Natural History. Edited by F. Bdchakan White, M.D., F.L.S. Annual 
Subscription, free by post, 48. 

SELLAR. Manual of the Education Acts for Scotland. By 

Alexander Craio Sella r, Advocate. Seventh Edition, greatly enlarged, 
and revised to the present time. Svo, 15s. 

SELLER AND STEPHENS. Physiology at the Farm ; in Aid of 

Rearing and Feeding the Live Stock. By William Seller, M.D., F.R.S.E., 
Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, Edinbuigh, fonnerly Lecturer on 
Materia Medica and Dietetics ; and Henry Stephens, F.R.S.E., Author of ' The 
Book of the Farm,' &c. Post Svo, with Engravings, i6s. 

SETON. Memoir of Alexander Seton, Earl of Dunfermline, Seventh 

President of the Court of Session, and Lord Chancellor of Scotland. By 
George Seton, M.A. Oxon. ; Author of the 'Law and Practice of Heraldry in 
Scotland,' &c. Crown 4to, 21s. 

SHADWELL. The Life of Colin Campbell, Lord Clyde. Hlus- 

trated by Extracts from his Diary and Correspondence. By Lieutenant- 
Oeneral Shadwell, C.B. 2 vols. Svo. With Portrait, Maps, and Plans. 
368. 

SIM. Margaret Sim's Cookery. With an Introduction by L. B. 

Walford, Author of ' Mr Smith : A Part of His Life,' &c. One volume crown 
Svo. [Intfie Press. 

SIME. King Capital By William Sdie. In 2 vols, post Svo. 

[In the Press. 

SIMPSON. Doas of other Days : Nelson and Puck. By Eve 

Blanttre Simpson. Fcap. Svo, with Illustrations, 4s. 6d. 

SMITH. The Pastor as Preacher; or, Preaching in connection 

with Work in the Prirish and the Study ; being Lectures delivered at the 
Universities of Ediuburgh, Aberdeen, and Glasgow. By Henrt Wallis 
Smith, D.D., Minister of Eirknewton and East Calder; one of the Lecturers 
on Pastoral Theology appointed by the General Assembly of the Church of 
Scotland, Crown Svo, 58. 

SMITH. Italian Irrigation : A Report on the Agricultural Canals 

of Piedmont and Lombardy, addressed to the Hon. the Directors of the East 
India Company ; with an Appendix, containing a Sketch of the Irrigation Sys- 
tem of Northern and Central India. By Lieut. -Col. R. Baird Smith, F.G.H., 
Captain, Bengal Engineers. Second £kiition. 2 vols. Svo, with Atlas in folio, 
30s. 

SMITH. Thomdale ; or, The Conflict of Opinions. By William 

SMrrH, Author of 'A Discourse on Ethics,' &c. A New Edition. Crown 
Svo, los. 6d. 

Gravenhurst ; or, Thoughts on Good and EviL Second 

Edition, with Memoir of the Author. Crown Svo, 8s. 

A Discourse on Ethics of the School of Paley. 8vo, 48. 



WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS. 21 

SMITH. Dramas, i. Sir William Crichton. 2. Athelwold. 3. 

Guidone. 34mo, boards, 3s. 

SOUTHEY. The Birthday, and other Poems. Second Edition, 58. 

Chapters on Churchyards. Fcap., 28. 6d. 

SPEKE. What led to the Discovery of the Nile Source. By John 

Hannino Speke, Cqptain H.Bi. Indian Army. 8vo, with Maps, &c., 14B. 

Journal of the Discovery of the Source of the Nile. By 

J. H. Speke, Captain H.M. Indian Amiy. With a Map of Eastern Equatorial 
Africa by Captain Sprke ; numerous illustrations, chiefly from Drawings by 
Captain Grant ; and Portraits, engraved on Steel, of Captains Speke acd 
Grant. 8vo, 21s. 

SPROTT. The Worship and Offices of the Church of Scotland ; 

or, the Celebration of Public Worship, the Administration of the Sacraments, 
and other Divine Offices, according to the Order of the Church of Scotland. 
By Georob W. Sprott, D.D., Minister or North Berwick. Crown 8vo, 6s. 

STARFORTH. yilla Residences and Farm Architecture : A Series 

of Designs. By John Starforth, Architect. 102 Engravings. Second Edi- 
tion, medium 4to, £2, 17s. 6d. 

STATISTICAL ACCOUNT OF SCOTLAND. Complete, with 

Index, 15 vols. 8vo, ;^i6, i6s. 
Each County sold separately, with Title, Index, and Hap, neatly bound in cloth, 
forming a very valuable Manual to the Landowner, the Tenant, the Manufac- 
turer, the Naturalist, the Tourist, &c. 

STEPHENS. The Book of the Farm ; detailing the Labours of the 

Farmer, Farm-Steward, Ploughman, Shepherd, Hedger, Farm-Labourer, Field- 
Worker, and Cattleman. By Henry Sfepbens, F.R.S.E. Illustrated with 
Portraits of Animals painted ftom the life ; and with 557 Engravings on Wood, 
• representing the principal Field Operations, Implements, and Animals treated 
of in the Work. A New and Revised Edition, the third, in great part Re- 
written. 2 vols, large 8vo, £2, los. 

- The Book of Farm-Buildings ; their Arrangement and 

Construction. By Henry Stephens, F.R.S.R, Author of 'The Book of the 
Fanu ; ' and Robert Scott Bitrn. Illustrated with 1045 Plates and En- 
gravings. Large 8vo, uniform with ' The Book of the Farm,' &c. jQi, xis. 6d. 

The Book of Farm Implements and Machines. By J. 

SuoHT and R Soott Burn, Engineers. Edited by Henry Stephens. Large 
8vo, uniform with ' The Book of the Farm,' £2, as. 

Catechism of Practical Agriculture. With Engravings, is. 

STEWART. Advice to Purchasers of Horses. By John Stewart, 

V.S. Authorof 'Stable Economy.' 2s. 6d. 

Stable Economy. A Treatise on the Manapjement of 

Horses in relation to Stabling, Grooming, Feeding, Watering, and Working. 
Seventh Edition, fcap. 8vo, 6s. 6d. 

STIRLING. Missing Proofs : a Pembrokeshire Tale. By M. C. 

Stirling, Author of * The Grahams of Invermoy.' 2 vols, crown 8vo, 178. 

Tlie Minister's Son ; or, Home with Honours. 3 vols. 

post 8vo, 25s. 6d. 

STORMONTH. Etymological and Pronouncing Dictionary of the 

English Language. Including a very Copious Selection of Scientific Terms. 
For Use in Schools and Colleges, and as a Book of General Reference. By the 
Rev. James Stormonth. The Pronunciation carefully Revised by the Rev. 
P. H. Phelp, M.A. Cantab. Seventh Edition, Revised throughout, contain- 
ing many words not to be found in any other Dictionary. Crown 8vo, pp. 
800. 7s. 6d. 



22 LIST OF BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 

STORMONTH. The School Etymological Dictionaiy and Word- 
Book. Combining the advantages of an ordinary pronouncing School Dic- 
tionary and an Etymological Spelling-book. Fcap. 8vo, pp. 354. as. 

STORY. Graffiti D'ltalia. By W. W. Story, Author of * Roba di 

Roma.' Second Edition, fcap. Svo, 78. 6d. 

Nero ; A Historical Play. Fcap. 8vo, 6s. 

Vallombrosa. Post 8vo, 5s. 

STRICKLAND. Lives of the Queens of Scotland, and English 

Princesses connected with the Regal Succession of Great Britain. By Aokeb 
Strickland. With Portraits and Historical Vignettes. 8 vols, post 8to, 

STURGIS. John- a -Dreams. A Tale. By Julian Sturgis. 

New Edition, crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. 

Little Comedies, Old and New. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. 

Dick's Wandering. 3 vols., post 8vo, 25s. 6d. 

SUTHERLAND. Handbook of Hardy Herbaceous and Alpine 

Flowers, for general Garden Decoration. Containing Descriptions, in Plain 
Language, of upwards of 1000 Species of Ornamental Hardy Perennial and 
Alpine Plants, adapted to all classes of Flower-Gardens, Rockwork, and 
Waters ; alongwith Concise and Plain Instructions for their Propagation and 
Culture. By William Sutherlakd, Gardener to the Earl of Minto ; formerly 
Manager of the Herbaceous Department at Rew. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. 

TAYLOR. Destruction and Reconstruction: Personal Experi- 
ences of the Late War in the United States. By Bicha&d TArLOB, Lieutenant- 
General in the Confederate Army. 8vo, los. 6d. 

TAYLOR. The Story of My Life. By the late Colonel Meadows 

Taylor, Author of 'The Confessions of a Thui?,' Ac &c. Edited by his 
Daughter. New and cheaper Edition, being the Fourth. Crown Svo, 6s. 

THOLUCK. Hours of Christian Devotion. Translated from the 

German of A. Tholuck, D.D., Professor of Theology in the University of HaUe. 
By the Rev. Robert Menzieb, D. D. With a Prefoce written for this Transla- 
tion by the Author. Second Edition, crown 8vo, 78. 6d. 

THOMSON. Handy Book of the Flower-Garden : being Practical 

Directions for the Propagation, Culture, and Arrangement of Plants in Flower- 
Gardens all the year round. Embracing all classes of Gardens, from the largest 
to the smallest. With Engraved and Coloured Plans, illustrative of the various 
systems of Grouping in Beds and Borders. By David Thomson, Gardener to 
his Grace the Duke of Buccleuch, KG., at Drumlanrig. Third Edition, crown 
8vo, 7s. 6d. 

The Handy Book of Fruit-Culture under Glass : being a 

series of Elaborate Practical Treatises on the Cultivation and Forcing of Pines, 
Vines, Peaches, Figs, Melons, Strawberries, and Cucumbers. With Engravings 
of Hothouses, &;c., most suitable for the Cultivation and Forcing of these 
F^niits. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, with Engravings, 78. 6d. 

THOMSON. A Practical Treatise on the Cultivation of the Grape- 
vine. By William Thomson, Tweed Vineyards. Ninth Edition, 8vo, 58. 

TOM CRINGLE'S LOG. A New Edition, with Illustrations. 

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 5s. Cheap Edition, 2s. 

TRAILL. Recaptured Rhymes. Being a Batch of Political and 
other Fugitives arrested and brought to Book. By H. D. Traill. Crown 
8vo, 5s. 

TRANSACTIONS OF THE HIGHLAND AND AGRICUL- 
TURAL SOCIETY OF SCOTLAND. Published annually, price 5s. 



WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS. 23 



TROLLOPE. The Fixed Period. By Anthony Trollopb. 2 vols., 

fcap. Svo, 128. 

TULLOCH. Rational Theology and Christian Philosophy in Eng- 
land in the Seventeenth Century. By John Tulloch, D.D., Principal of St 
Mary's College in the University of St Andrews ; and one of her Majesty's 
Chaplains in Ordinary in Scotland. Second Edition. 2 vols. 8vo, 28s. 

The Christian Doctrine of Sin ; being the Croall Lecture 



for 1876. Crown 8vo, 68. 



- Theism. The Witness of Reason and Nature to an All- 
Wise and Beneficent Creator. 8vo, xos. 6d. 

TYTLER. The Wonder-Seeker; or, The History of Charles Douglas. 

By M. Fraser Tytler, Atithor of ' Tales of the Great dnd Brave/ &c. A New 
Edition. Fcap., 3s. 6d. 

VIRGIL. The ^neid of Virgil. Translated in English Blank 
Verse by O. K. Rickards, M.A., and Lord Ravens worth, a vols. fcap. 8vo, 
xos. 

WALFORD. Mr Smith : A Part of his Life. By L. B. Walford. 

Cheap Edition, 3s. 6d. 

PauUne. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 68. 

Cousins. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 68. 

Troublesome Daughters. ChjBaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. 

Dick Netherby. Crown Svo, Ts. 6d. 

WARREN'S (SAMUEL) WORKS. People's Edition, 4 vols, crown 

8vo, cloth, 188. Or separately :— 

Diary of a Late Physician. 38. 6d. Illustrated, crown Svo, 7s. 6d. 

Ten Thousand A- Year. 5s. 

Now and Then. The Lily and the Bee. Intellectual and Moral 

Development of the Present Age. 4s. 6d. 

Essays : Critical, Imaginative, and Ju^dicaL 5 s. 
WARREN. The Five Books of the Psalms. With Marginal 

Notes. By Rev. Samuel L. Warren, Rector of Esher, Surrey ; late Fellow, 
Dean, and Divinity Lecturer, Wadham College, Oxford. Crown Svo, 5s. 

WATSON. Eternal Life ; and other Sermons. By the late Archi- 
bald Watson, D.D., Minister of the Parish of Dundee, and one of Her 
Miyesty's Chaplains for Scotland. With Introduction by the Very Rev. 
Principal Caird, Glasgow. Crown Svo. [In the Press. 

WELLINGTON. Wellington Prize Essays on "the System of Field 

Manoeuvres hest adapted for enabling our Troops to meet a Continental Army. 
Edited by Mi^or-Oeneral Sir Edward Bruce Hamley, K.C.M.G. Svo, Z2S. 6d. 

WESTMINSTER ASSEMBLY. Minutes of the Westminster As- 
sembly, while engaged in preparing their Directory for Church Government, 
Confession of Faith, and Catechisms (November 1644 to March 1649). Printed 
from. Transcripts of the Originals procured by the General Assembly of the 
Church of Scotland. Edited by the Rev. Alex. T. Mitchell, D.D., Professor 
of Ecclesiastical History in the University of St Andrews, and the Rev. John 
Struthers, LL.D., Minister of Prestonpans. With a Historical and Critical 
Introduction by Professor Mitchell. Svo, 158. 



24 LIST OF BOOKS, ETC. 



WHITE. The Eighteen Christian Centuries. By the Rev. James 

White, Author of 'The History of France.' Seventh Edition, postSvo, with 
Index, 6d. 

History of France, from the Earliest Times. Sixth Thou- 
sand, post 8vo, with Index, 68. 

WHITE. ArchsBological Sketches in Scotland — Kintyre and Knap- 
dale. By Captain T. P. White, R.E., of the Ordnance Survey. With numer- 
ous Illustrations, a vols, folio, jC^ 4s. Vol. I., Kintyre, sold separately, 
£^, as. 

WILLS AND GREENE. Drawing-room Dramas for Children, By 

W. G. Wills and the Hon. Mrs Greene. Crown 8V0, 6s. 
WILSON. Works of Professor Wilson. Edited by his Son-in-Law, 

Professor Ferrieb. is vols, crown 8vo, £2^ 8s. 

Christopher in his Sporting-Jacket. 2 vols., 8s. 

Isle of Palms, City of the Plague, and other Poems. 4s. 

Lights and Shadows of Scottish Life, and other Tales. 4s. 

Essays, Critical and Imaginative. 4 vols., i6s. 

 The Noctes AmbrosiansB. Complete, 4 vols., 14s. 

The Comedy of the Noctes Ambrosianae. By Christopher 

North. Edited by John Skelton, Advocate. With a Portrait of Professor 
Wilson and of the Ettrick Shepherd, engraved on Steel. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. 

Homer and his Translators, and the Greek Drama. Crown 



8vo, 4s. 

WINQATE. Annie Weir, and other Poems. By David Wingate. 

Fcap. 8vo, ss. 

Lily Neil. A Poem. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. 



WORDSWORTH. The Historical Plays of Shakespeare. With 
Introductions and Notes. By Charles Wordsworth, D.C.L., Bishop of 8. 
Andrews. 3 vols, post 8vo. [In the Press, 

A Discourse on Scottish Church History. From the Refor- 



mation to the Present Time. With Prefatory Remarks on the St Giles' Lec- 
tures, and Appendix of Notes and References. Crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d» 

WORSLEY. Poems and Translations. By Philip Stanhope 

WoRSLET, M.A. Edited by Edward Worslky. Second Edition, enlarged. 
Fcap. 8vo, 6s. 

WYLDE. A Dreamer. By Katharine Wyldb. In 3 vols., 

post Svo, 25s. 6d. 

YOUNG. Songs of B^ranger done into English Verse. By William 

Young. New Edition, revised. Fcap. 8vo, 4s. 6d. 

YULE. Fortification: for the Use of Officers in the Army, and 

Readers of Military History. By Col. Yulb, Bengal Engineers. Svo, with 
numerous Illustrations, zos. 6d, ^ 



V . 




