Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 






Schlesinger Library 
Radcliffe College 



Culinary Collection 

From the Collection of 
Sophie Coe 




^^ 




Mrs. Gilpin's Frugalities 



 Gilpin's Fruffa/,V. 



Remnants, and 200 ways of using them 

by 

Susan Anna Brown 

Author of "The Book of Forty Puddings" 



New York 

Charles Scribner's Sons 

1883 



C. 'I . 



f'   



Copyright^ 1883, by 
Charles Scribner*s Softs 



Trvvf's 

IViMting and BcokhiMdiHg; Coittpany 

AVw York 



Preface. 



TT is often remarked^ that^ as a whole ^ Americans are more wasteful of food than 
"^ any other people. A lady who had spent her early days in Bohemia^ and who had 
come to this country afterward, made the statement to a friend that enough food was 
thrown away in one of our charitable institutions to feed a village in her native country. 
This arose from no deliberate wastefulness, but from a real ignorance of that principle 
of economy which utilises everything, and which makes it possible for some families to 
live comfortably upon a small income, while others who have twice as much, seem en* 
gaged in a constant struggle with poverty. 

The housekeeper who provides the greatest variety of food is not necessarily extrava- 
gant. On the contrary, no table is so expensive as the one to which little thought 
and less personal oversight is given. Servants seldom have either time or inclination 



Vi PREFACE. 

to make the remnants which are lefty into those tempting little dishes which are so useful 
in relieving the monotony of steak ^ roast ^ and chop. If *' a penny saved is a penny 
earned'* a housekeeper can well afford the time which a daily inspection of lur cup- 
board demands ^ and the thought which must be given to converting what she finds titer e 
into palatable dishes. At the end of the year she will see a reduction in her grocer* s 
and butchers bills which will be worth saving. Even those who do not need to econo- 
mize closely on their own account ^ should not tolerate a wasteful kitchen when there are 
so many more satisfactory ways of using money. It is a great mistake to suppose that 
economy consists in buying the poorest articles and in making the table unattractive. 

The great art is to know where to save and where to spends and how to use every- 
thing to the best possible advantage. There is such a thing as stingy extravagance 
and wasteful scrimping. 

Solomon must have had in mind housekeeping when he said^ ** There is that scat- 
terethf and yet increaseth, and there is that withfioldeth more than is meet^ but it 
tendeth to poverty '* 



Contents, 



Argenteuil Soup, 

Beef 

Chicken 

Clear 

Com 

HampBtead 

Macaroni 

Maris^ld 

May 

Mock- Turtle 



SOUPS. 

PAGE 
II 

6 

7 

9 

• • • • • • A^ 

IX 

II 

13 

8 

4 



Mutton Broth, . 

Mutton Potage, . 

One Day Soup, . 

Pea (Qreen) Soup, 

Pea (Split) Soup, 

Potato 

Saturday 

Tomato (Fresh) Soup 

Tomato Soup, . 

Tapioca " 

Thick Beef Soup, 



(f 



(I 



PAGE 

6 
8 
8 

7 

9 

10 

II 

13 

5 

7 
6 



VIU 



CONTENTS. 



PAGB 



Turkey Soup, ....... 6 

Veal Broth, 6 

Veal Cream, xa 

Vermicelli Soup, 5 

White Soup, lo 

FISH. 

Cod au Promage, az 

Cod, Baked, z8 

Cod, Minced 34 

Cod, Scalloped, 18 

Cusk 4 la cr^me 17 

Fish Croquettes, aj 

Fish, Mayonnaise, 19 



PAGB 

Fish, Maitre d'Hotel, aa 

Fish Pyramid, aa 

Fish Toast, 33 

Fish, Wanned Over, ax 

Fish in White Sauce, 19 

Haddock, Crumbed, 17 

Haddock Souffle, 19 

Halibut, Creamed, 33 

Halibut, Pickled, ax 

Lobster, Buttered, ao 

Lobster Croquettes, aa 

Lobster, Escalloped, x8 

Lobster, Stewed, x8 

Salmon Gratin, 17 



CONTENTS, 



IX 



PAGB 

Salmon, Pickled, ax 

Salmon Reliah, 23 

Salmon Salad, ao 

Salmon Toast, . ao 

BEEF. 

Ampthill Points, 27 

Balls, 3X 

Breslau, 32 

Cakes, 33 

Cecils, 29 

Chapel Hash, 3a 

Chipolata, 37 

Courtland, • 29 



fAG« 



Corned Beef Hash, 3t 

Croquettes, 36 

Fricassee, 33 

Gratin, 28 

Loaf, 36 

Miroton, 28 

PersiUade, 29 

Pie, with Pastiy, 35 

Pouto Pie, 28 

Potted, 30 

Pressed, 3^ 

Puff Paste 33 

Ragout, a8 

Salad,. • 31 



CONTENTS. 



PAGB 



Spiced* , 36 

Tongue Hash, 30 

Tomato Sauce 3a 



MUTTON AND LAMB. 

Brown Sauce, 42 

Bordered, 46 

Chelsea, 47 

Egg Scallop, 45 

Golden, 47 

French Hash, 44 

Haricot, 47 

Hoche Pot 44 



PAGC 

Maryland Pie, 48 

Matelot, 45 

Michel, 4a 

Mince, 47 

Pie 41 

Potato Pie 46 

Rechauffe, 4a 

Rice 4Z 

Sanders 41 

Scallop, 4a 

Scrambled 41 

Sauce Blanche, 44 

Shepherd's Pie, 43 

Turkish Pilap, 4« 



CONTENTS. 



XI 



PACB 



Tomato Saucey 43 

Tomato Pie» ••..«.. 46 

VBAI*. 

Batter 54 

Blanquette 59 

Blanquette Dijon, 51 



PAGB 

Galantine, • • • 55 

Qarnishing Jelly, 51 

Hash, 55 

J«uy. 58 

Pasties, 51 

Pic, $6 

Pie, Roast Veal, 56 



Breakfast, , . . SG ) Ragout, 59 

Creamed, • 58 > Salad, 54 



Croquettes, 5a 

Croquettes, Baked, .,.•.. 53 
Croquettes, Spring, 53 



Salem, 57 

Scalloped, •...•.•• 57 
Toast, 53 



Dice, 



54 S Tomato, 60 



Dressing, 55 ) Waverly, 



xu 



CONTENTS. 



POULTRY. 



PACK 



PAGE 



Croquettes, Chicken, 67 

Croquettes, Chicken and Rice, .... 67 

Croquettes, Chicken and Oysters, ... 68 

Croquettes, Woodlawn 70 

Duck Pie, 73 

Fried Chicken 66 

Giblet Pie, 68 

Goose, Devilled, 71 

Goose, Warmed 72 

Hampstead Chicken, 65 

Macaronied Chicken, 63 

Minced Fowl, ...•••. 6g 

Montclair Scallop, 69 



Nonpareil 66 

Pur^e, 63 

Rice and Chicken, 64 

Roman Remoulu, 63 

Salad without Celery, 64 

Salmis, 66 

Short Cake, 65 

Tarts, 65 

Turkey Bechamel, 70 

Turkey )l la Cr8me 71 

Turkey, Devilled, 69 

Turkey Hash, 7a 

Turkey Loaf, 70 

Turkey Sou£B£, 71 



CONTENTS. 



Xlll 



PACK 

White Mountain Chicken, .... 66 

Wonders, 68 

POTATOES. 

Balls, 79 

Breakfast, 78 

Browned, 80 

Champlain, 77 

Creamed, 80 

Dumplings, 78 

Pried, 77 

Fried (Sweet), 77 

Golden Mount, 80 

Lyonnaise, 77 



PAGB 



Minced, 79 

Roman, 79 

Scalloped, 81 

Sliced, 79 

Snowy, 80 

Stewed, - 79 

Toasted, 78 

SUNDRIES. 

Asparagus aux CEufs, 86 

Asparagus Salad, 85 

Beets, Pickled 89 

Beet Salad, 89 

Berlin Relish, 87 



XIV 

Brewis, • 

Cabbage Jelly, . 
Cake Fritters, . 
Cauliflowers, Creamed, 
Cauliflower au Fromage, 
Celery k la Poulette, 
Com, Stewed, . 
Cottage Cheese, . 
Dressing, . 
Eggs, Creamed, 
Ham Toast, 
Ham Turnover, • 
Liver Picard, 
Macaroni (Venetian), 



CONTENTS. 






PACK < 




93 ' 


I Omelettes Asperges, . 


86 


\ Omelettes, Bread, 






93 : 


1 Omelettes, Cheese, 






85; 


' Pastin^ca, . 






85 


1 Rice Croquettes, 






86 < 


Risotti, 






86 \ 


) Sauce, Copeland's, , 






90 1 


> Sauce, Horseradish, , 






89 


\ Squash Pies, 






92 - 


Tripe, Stewed, . 






88 \ 


1 Toast, Fried, 






87 1 


Tomato Scallop, 






90 { 


\ Tongue on Toast, 






89! 


\ Turnovers, Aunt Elizabeth's, 



PAGE 
85 

87 
89 

88 

91 
90 

91 

91 
92 

88 

93 
92 

90 

94 



CONTENTS. 



XV 



PAGE 

Vegetable Hash, 88 

Vegetables, Wanned, 88 

Zephyrs, 93 

MATERIALS. 

Anchovies, . • . 98 

Barley, 98 

Bay Leaves, 98 

Browned Flour, ....... 98 

Caramel, 98 

Celery, 99 

Cheese, , ^ 99 

Corn Starch, .99 

Crumbs, 99 

Curry Powder, 100 



PACK 

Extracts, .•••••.. 100 

Flavoring, 100 

Flour, ......... xoo 

Garlic, zox 

Herbs, lox 

Herrings, zox 

Ketchups, , lox 

Macaroni, . lox 

Parsley, lox 



Pepper, 

Sauces, 

Spices, 

Sugar, 

Tapioca, 



Z02 
loa 
xoa 
loa 
xoa 



" T^CONOMY in itself is one of the most agreeable of luxuries. This I need not 
demonstrate. Everybody knows what good fun it is to make a bargain. Econ- 
omy becomes dreadful^ only when some lightning-flash of truth shows us that our 
painful frugality has been really the most lavish waste. ^^ 



^ 



Soups. 



Soups. 



SOUPS are too little prized in this coun- 
try, and many families who live plainly 
seldom have them. 

All kinds of broth have the advantage 
of being healthful and economical, and, if 
properly made, are acceptable to almost 
every one. The custom of beginning a din- 
ner with meat, is neither wholesome nor 
economical, and yet it is practised by many 
under the impression that three courses 
must cost more than two. Actual experi- 
ment will prove this to be a mistake. 

So many excellent receipts can be found 
in other cook-books for making soups from 



materials purchased expressly for the pur- 
pose, that the following list includes only 
those which can be made of remnants. 
Some general directions must be borne in 
mind in making all soups. The bones 
must be put on in cold water, and allowed 
to boil slowly some hours. The liquor must 
then be strained and set aside until the next 

« 

day. When a soup-kettle is on the .stove 
many scraps of meat and vegetables will 
find their way to it which would otherwise 
be thrown away. The day after the stock 
is made, every particle of fat can be re* 
moved from the top. A soup which is 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



served the same day that the stock is boiled 
cannot fail to be greasy and unpalatable. 

All the fat which is taken from the top 
of soups and gravies should be clarified by 
melting it, and pouring it in a bowl which 
contains a little hot water. When it is cold 
all the impurities can be scraped from the 
bottom of the cake, and the dripping will 
be found useful in many ways. 

Mock Turtle Soup. — A dinner of boiled 
" calfs head and pluck," served with drawn 
butter and parsnips, is a favorite dish with 
many people, and the next day's soup is ad- 
mirable. The calfs head should be nicely 
dressed, by being scalded, and the hair care- 
fully scraped from the skin, the eyes re- 
moved, and the head split in halves, and 



soaked thoroughly in water to remove the 
blood. The liver, tongue, and heart should 
be boiled with the head, and the brains re- 
moved and boiled by themselves in a cloth. 
The lights are not of much account ; most 
people do not use them. Put on in cold 
water and remove the scum carefully as it 
rises. The soup is an after consideration, 
and is made the next day. Put on to boil 
the liquor in which you cooked the head. 
Of course you will have been careful not to 
spoil it, by putting in too much salt the day 
before. Cut what remains of the head in 
pieces half an inch square, and the liver and 
heart in fine bits. Probably there will be 
more liver left than you will care to use. 
Add these bits to the liquor, and put in a 
little pepper, clove, cinnamon, and nutmeg. 



SOUPS. 



5 



When the soup boils add a thickening pre- 
pared by stirring one cupful of browned 
flour in enough •cold water to make it 
smooth. Make some little balls of half a 
cupful of salt pork, and one cupful of lean 
veal, chopped fine. If you have no raw^ 
veal vou can substitute bread-crumbs. 
Season these balls with pepper, salt, sage, 
and marjoram, mix with one egg, to bind 
them together, and fr>' them brown. Put 
them in the tureen with two hard-boiled eggs 
sliced, one lemon sliced and seeded, and 
pour on the soup. If it is not a rich dark 
brown add a little caramel. 

Vermicelli Soup. — Break up the bones 
of cold roast beef, and put them in a kettle 
with enough cold water to cover them. 



Add one teaspoonful of salt and a very 
small bit of red pepper. Let all boil 
through the day, and at night strain and 
set away to cool. The next day take off 
all the fat, add half a small onion and 
one heaping tablespoonful of vermicelli, 
broken up small. Boil until the onion is 
cooked. 

Tomato Soup. — Boil beef bones five or 
six hours, putting them on in cold water. 
Strain and set away to cool. The next da)' 
take off the fat, add one cupful of canned or 
stewed tomato, a piece of onion as large as 
a half dollar, salt and pepper to your taste, 
thicken with one teaspoonful of corn-starch 
wet with cold water and boiled until clear. 
Strain the soup, and add, just before it is 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



carried to the table, a handful of bread cut 
into dice and fried in butter. 

Veal Broth. — Boil the bones of roast 
veal, and any hard parts of the meat, some 
hours. The next day, add half a cup of raw 
rice, half a small onion, and what remains of 
the stuffing of the veal, salt and pepper. 
Boil gently half an hour. 

Turkey Soup. — Boil all the bones of 
roasted turkey, with the remnants of the 
dressing and gravy. When cold, remove 
the fat, add a teaspoonful of grated onion, 
one teaspoonful of grated carrot, one table- 
spoonful of cold boiled turnip, two table- 
spoonfuls of Italian paste, salt and pepper 
as you please. 



Thick Beef Soup. — One quart of stock, 
which has been made the day previously of 
three or four steak bones and the trimmings 
of a roast of beef. Add to this two tea- 
spoonfuls of salt, one-fourth teaspoonful of 
pepper, three medium-sized potatoes, pared 
and sliced, half an onion, half a small car- 
rot, scraped and sliced, three slices of tur- 
nip, half a bay-leaf, and a pinch of chopped 
parsley. Boil until the vegetables are 
cooked, add a few drops of caramel, to give 
it a good color, and serve hot. 

Mutton Broth. — Take the fat from the 
liquor in which your leg of mutton was 
boiled. Add pepper, and a little salt, bear- 
ing in mind that mutton will not bear as 
much salt as beef or veal; half a cup of 



X 



SOUPS. 



raw rice, and half an onion. Boil all to- 
gether half an hour. This is a delicious 
broth, and can be digested by very delicate 
persons. 

Chicken Soup. — Boil the bones of two 
chickens, with half an onion. The next 
day, skim off every bit of fat, and add half 
a cup of pearled barley, which has been 
soaked overnight in cold water. Salt and 
pepper. Just before serving sift in one- 
third of a teacupful of dry, fine bread- 
crumbs. 

Green Pea Soup. — Take what remains 
of the peas you had for dinner the day be- 
fore, and whatever kind of soup was left, 
and boil both together until the peas are 



very soft. If you have a heaping cupful of 
peas, you can make soup enough for four 
or five persons. Put in salt, and pepper, 
and onion. The quantity of each must de- 
pend upon the character of the soup which 
you have put in. Put a piece of butter as 
large as half an egg into a frying pan, and 
when it is hot, put in a handful of stale 
bread, cut in dice. Stir until they are quite 
brown. Strain your soup, rubbing the peas 
through the colander, as much as possible. 
Sprinkle on a little chopped parsley, and 
a few celery tops cut up fine. Put the fried 
bread into the tureen, and pour in the soup. 
This soup can be made and eaten the same 
dav. 

Tapioca Soup. — To one quart of stock 



8 



MRS. GILPIN S FRUGALITIES. 



made from beef bones allow one small onion, 
two slices of turnip, one half a small car- 
rot, one potato, pared and sliced. Boil 
until the vegetables are cooked, and then 
take out the onion and carrot, and mash 
the turnip and potatoes with the back of 
the spoon, and put in a quarter of a cup of 
pearled tapioca, which has been soaked two 
hours in cold water. . Cook until the tapioca 
looks clear. Put in one half a square of 
** soup flavoring." 

May Soup. — Boil the bones and trim- 
mings of veal cutlet, with any steak bones 
which you have ; put in any cold boiled 
vegetables except squash, salt, and a bit of 
red pepper. The next day add more sea- 
soning if required, and two tablespoonfuls 



of Italian paste. Color with a few drops of 
caramel. 

Mutton Potage.— Put the bones of cold 
roast mutton on in cold water, and boil half 
a day. Strain, and the next momipg re- 
move the fat and put on the liquor, with a 
slice of onion, a slice of turnip, a little salt 
and pepper. Do not let it boil hard, as the 
taste goes off in the steam. When the 
vegetables are half cooked add two table- 
spoonfuls of vermicelli, broken up in small 
pieces, and half a cup of canned tomato, 
and the last thing, put in half a teaspoon- 
ful of caramel. 

One Day Soup. — Half a can of tomato, 
left from yesterday, five or six cold boiled 



SOUPS. 



or baked potatoes, half an onion, one stalk ^ 
of celery, or a few celery tops. Boil all 
together until the vegetables are very soft. 
Put through a colander, add pepper and 
salt, and a pinch of sugar, ^//j/ before serv- 
ing pour in one cup of hot milk with a pinch 
of soda dissolved in it. Sift over the top a 
few very dry bread-crumbs. 

Split Pea Soup. — The water in which 
corned beef has been boiled is considered 
the best stock for a pea soup. Of course, 
if the meat was very salt, the broth cannot 
be used without reducing it, but one can 
tell verj' easily whether it is right by tasting 
the stock while it is hot. Soak one coffee- 
cup of split peas all night, and in the morn- 
ing put them on to boil in two quarts of 



stock, with an onion and a stalk of celery. 
If you have no celery you can put in a little 
celery seed. Boil until the peas are quite 
soft. It will take about two hours and a 
half. Rub all through a colander and return 
the soup to the fire. Braid together one 
even tablespoonful of flour and one table- 
spoonful of butter, and stir it into the hot 
soup. If you put a few spoonfuls of the 
soup into the bowl with your braided flour 
and butter, and stir carefully, you will pre- 
vent the thickening from cooking in lumps 
in the kettle. Have a handful of fried bread 
in the tureen when you pour in your soup. 

Clear Soup. — Put the trimmings of your 
roast of beef, which the butcher will always 
send with the joint, if you ask for it, in a 



lO 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



kettle with cold water, add half an onion, 
a small bit of red pepper, and an even tea- 
spoonful of salt. Boil all together half a 
day, adding more water as it boils away. 
Strain, and put away to cool. In the morn- 
ing remove every bit of fat, and dip out 
carefully so as to leave the sediment at the 
bottom. When it boils stir in one-third of 
a cupful of pearled tapioca which has soaked 
three hours or more in cold water. Boil 
until the tapioca is clear, adding more salt 
and pepper if required. Stir in half a tea- 
spoonful of caramel, or half a square of 
soup flavoring. 

White Soup. — Take one quart of stock, 
made by boiling the bones of stewed veal or 
boiled mutton, or both together. Put into 



it a few slices of onion, and a tablespoonful 
of mashed turnip. When it boils, grate into 
it two medium-sized potatoes, and let it 
cook a few minutes, stirring carefully. Salt 
and pepper. 

Potato Soup. — One heaping cupful of 
cold mashed potato, one cupful of cold 
mashed turnip. If these vegetables are left 
from dinner they will have butter in them, 
otherwise you must put in a tablespoonful 
before you put them into the soup. Stir the 
vegetables together and add a pint of hot 
water in which one onion has been boiled. 
Put all on the stove, stirring carefully. 
When the mixture is thoroughly hot, and 
free from all lumps, add one quart of hot 
milk, and serve at once. 



SOUPS. 



II 



Hampstead Soup. — One quart of stock 
made from the bones of cold roast beef. 
Put a piece of butter as large as a filbert 
into a frying pan, and slice in half an onion, 
fry a light brown and put into your stock 
with one tablespoonful of cold mashed pota- 
to. Salt and pepper to taste. When the soup 
is boiling, put in a handful of Italian paste. 

Macaroni Soup. — Boil together the bones 
and stuffing of a roast chicken, and a steak 
bone, with half an onion, and a bit of red 
pepper. The next day take off all the fat 
and put the stock on to heat. When it boils 
add salt to your taste, and two sticks of 
macaroni broken in short bits and soaked 
an hour in tepid water. Grate into the soup 
one good-sized potato, half a small turnip, 



half a carrot. Boil well, and add a dessert- 
spoonful of Harvey's Sauce. 

Saturday Soup. — Collect all the bones 
which you have on hand, beef, veal, mutton, 
or fowl, and boil together one day. The 
next morning remove the fat, and put the 
soup on to heat If you have a little cold 
hash, or a few croquettes put them in, and 
add a saucerful of canned corn, salt and 
pepper to taste, a few slices of onion, half 
a teaspoonful of celery salt, one cupful 
of stewed tomato. Boil all together, and 
just before serving put in a few drops of 
caramel to make it a good brown. 

Argenteuil Soup. — Boil the trimmings 
of a roast of beef, with half an onion, a very 



12 



MRS. GILPIN S FRUGALITIES. 



small bit of red pepper, and an even tea- 
spoonful of salt. Strain, and set away to 
cool. The next day melt four tablespoon- 
fuls of beef- marrow in a frying-pan, and 
when it is hot stir in two tablespoonfuls of 
flour. Stir the mixture until it is smooth 
and add the hot stock. Just before putting 
in the tureen add two yolks of eggs beaten 
light. Serve with very small dice of fried 
bread. This receipt was given by an Aus- 
trian lady. 



and put in the grated corn, seasoned with 
salt and pepper. When it is hot, add one 
quart of milk. Rub one teaspoonful of 
butter and one teaspoonful of flour togeth- 
er, and add a little of the hot soup, stirring 
it smooth and then adding it to the rest. 
Let it boil up once. Some persons add 
two well-beaten eggs, and it is an improve- 
ment if skilfully done, but if the eggs are 
allowed to curdle it spoils the appearance 
of the soup. 



Com Soup. — Take cold green corn left 
from dinner, and grate the corn from the 
cob with a coarse grater. It will require 
ten or twelve ears to make three pints of 
soup. Boil the cobs half an hour in enough 
water to cover them, then take them out 



Veal Cream Soup. — Boil the remnants 
of a roast of veal until the meat falls from 
the bones. Strain and cool. The next 
day put on to boil, with a slice of onion and 
one-third of a cupful of raw rice. Let it 
simmer slowly for an hour. Add salt and 



SOUPS. 



13 



pepper to taste. Just before serving, add 
one cupful of rich milk, or cream if you 
have it, heated first in a separate dish. 

Fresh Tomato Soup. — Prepare the 
stock the day previous by boiling bones 
left from steak, and roast or boiled mutton. 
To three pints of this stock add four toma- 
toes peeled and sliced, one teaspoon ful of 
sugar, and a little salt and pepper. Boil all 
together. Put a piece of butter as large as 
a nutmeg into a frying-pan, and when it is 
hot sprinkle into it a handful of dry bread, 
cut into dice ; stir until they are all brown, 
and then put the bread into the tureen, and 
pour into the frying-pan with the browned 
butter, about a teacupful of the soup, stir 
into this one heaping teaspoonful of corn- 



starch, wet up with cold water, cook until 
it is clear, stirring constantly. Strain the 
soup and add the thickening and pour into 
the hot tureen. 

Marigold Soup — Boil a mutton-bone 
half a day. When the liquor has cooled and 
had every particle of fat taken off, put on the 
fire with half an onion, a clove stuck in it, 
half a small turnip, and a potato pared and 
sliced. Boil until the vegetables are soft, 
and then stir in a cupful of cold boiled rice. 
Take out the onion and turnip, and just be- 
fore serving sprinkle a few petals of pot 
marigolds (calendula) on top. 

Readers of Miss Edgeworth will recall 
the marigold broth which Barbara Case 
found so attractive. 



Fish. 



Fish* 



Cusk ii la Cr6me. — Take cold boiled 
halibut or blue-fish, remove the skin and the 
bones and put them on to boil in a pint of 
milk, in which you have also put a blade of 
mace and a small onion. When it has boiled 
a few minutes, take out the bones, etc., and 
thicken the milk with a tablespoonful of 
flour, rubbed into an equal quantity of but- 
ter. Stir into the milk and let it boil up. 
Put as much fish as you have sauce into a 
deep dish, sift a few bread-crumbs over it, 
and bake half an hour. 

Salmon Gratin. — One coffee-cup of cold 



boiled salmon, pulled into flakes with a 
fork ; mix with this one-half cup of cold 
drawn butter, pepper and salt ; fill with the 
mixture the little earthen dishes that come 
for cooking eggs "^«r le piat" cover with 
fine bread-crumbs, and brown in the oven. 

Crumbed Haddock. — Remove the bones 
and skin from cold boiled haddock and 
put them on to boil with half a small onion. 
Pick the fish into flakes and mix with a 
pint of fish one teaspoonful of salt, half a 
teaspoonful of pepper, and one cupful of 
dry bread-crumbs ; fill a buttered dish half 



I8 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



full of the mixture, then pour in what re- 
mains of your drawn butter, add the rest of 
the fish, sprinkle crumbs over the top, 
moisten with the water in which you have 
boiled the bones, and bake about twenty 
minutes. It must be more moist than scal- 
loped oysters. 

Stewed Lobster. — To make a nice relish 
of bits of lobster which you have left, put 
a piece of butter as large as a small egg in 
a saucepan, add one-half cup of water, nut- 
meg, salt, and a very little mace. Stew the 
lobster in this ten minutes. 

Baked Cod. — Flake up with a fork cold 
boiled cod. Put in a pint of milk to a pint 
of fish, and a little thickening of fiour. Salt 



and pepper to taste, and half a ifery small 
onion. Put in a pudding dish, cover with 
crumbs and put little bits of butter on top. 
Bake until the top is brown. 

Scalloped Cod. — Butter an earthenware 
pudding-dish, and place in it neat flakes of 
the cold fish with any of the gelatine which is 
left ; line the bottom of the dish, and then 
pour over it any of the sauce or melted but- 
ter that you may have. Sprinkle with salt, a 
very little red pepper, and a pinch of mace ; 
place alternate layers of fish and sauce un- 
til the dish is full. Cover the top with fine 
bread-crumbs, put bits of butter over the 
top, and bake for twenty minutes. 

Escalloped Lobster. — Butter a deep 



FISH. 



19 



dish and cover the bottom with a layer 
of bread-crumbs, put in next a layer of 
chopped lobster, with pepper and salt, and 
repeat the process till the dish is full, hav- 
ing the crumbs come last. Put bits of but- 
ter over the top, moisten with milk, and 
bake about twenty minutes. 

Mayonnaise Fish. — Flake up cold 
boiled halibut and pour over it a dressing 
made thus. Put two yolks of eggs in a 
bowl, and add four tablespoonfuls of nice 
olive oil, little by little, beating the eggs all 
the time. When it is thick, add two tea- 
spoonfuls of sharp vinegar, and salt and 
pepper to taste. 

Fish in White Sauce. — Flake up cold 



boiled halibut and set the plate into the 
steamer that the fish may heat without dry- 
ing. Boil the bones and skin of the fish 
with a slice of onion and a very small piece 
of red pepper, a bit of this as large as a 
kernel of coffee will make the sauce quite 
as hot as most persons like it. Boil this 
stock down to half a pint, thicken with one 
teaspoonful of butter and one teaspoonful 
of flour braided together. Add one drop 
of extract of almond ; pour this sauce over 
your halibut, and stick bits of parsley over 
it. 

Haddock Souffl6. — One cup of cold 
baked haddock, and one cup of mashed 
potatoes mixed together, one-half cup of 
milk added gradually, salt and pepper as 



20 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



you like ; stir in one egg well beaten, and 
put in a buttered dish and set it in the oven 
until it is very hot, then beat the white of 
another egg very stiff, and stir into it the 
yolk, also beaten with a little salt and pep- 
per, heap this over the fish, and return to 
the oven to brown. 

Buttered Lobster. — Mince the bits of 
lobster which you have left, and put in a 
buttered stewpan to heat. Season with 
pepper, salt, a dust of nutmeg, and a tea- 
spoonful of vinegar. When it is hot, add 
half a cup of cream, into which you have 
beaten one teaspoonful of butter and half a 
teaspoonful of flour. Let all boil up once, 
and pour on a platter ; garnish with strips 
of toasted bread, and slices of lemon. 



Salmon Salad. — One cup of cold boiled 
salmon, flaked up very fine, and added to 
twice the quantity of nice lettuce, cut up 
with a silver knife ; mix together with a 
fork, heap it on a platter surrounded with 
lettuce leaves, and pour over it a dressing 
made as for "Veal Salad" Ornament with 
nasturtium blossoms. 

Salmon Toast — Cut half slices of stale 
bread and throw them into smoking hot 
lard. They will brown at once. Take them 
out and drain them on a piece of brown 
paper until you are ready to use them. 
Heat one cupful of cold salmon, picked 
into flakes, in one-half cupful of cold drawn 
butter, adding pepf)er and salt. When it is 
hot, stir in one egg, beaten light, with three 



FISH. 



21 



tablespoonfuls of cold sweet cream. Pour 
the mixture on the slices of fried bread. 
If you have no drawn butter, substitute one- 
half cupful of milk. 

Cod au Fromage. — One cupful of cold 
boiled macaroni cut up in short bits, one 
cup of cold boiled cod mixed with it ; put 
in a buttered dish, lay little bits of butter 
over it, season with salt and pepper, moist- 
en with cold drawn butter, if you have it, 
if not, use milk, cover with fine crumbs, 
and sprinkle two tablespoonfuls of grated 
cheese on top. Bake until brown. 

Pickled Salmon. — If you have cold 
boiled salmon left in a good shape, remove 
the bones carefully, and put the piece in a 



deep dish, stick a few cloves in the top, 
grate on a little nutmeg, and pour over it 
boiling vinegar, in which a few pepper-corns 
have been boiled. The next day you will 
have a delicious dish. 

Pickled Halibut — Take a good shaped 
piece of cold boiled halibut, stick half a 
dozen cloves into it, put it in a bowl, and 
pour over it hot vinegar in which you have 
boiled a very small bit of red pepper and a 
blade of mace. The next day arrange let- 
tuce leaves around the edge of a glass dish, 
and place your pickled fish in the centre, 
pouring over it what remains of the vine- 
gar. 

Warmed-over Fish. — Cold fried fish 



22 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



should be put on a tin, and set in the oven 
until hot. When you take it from the 
stove lay the pieces, for a moment, on 
brown paper, to absorb the grease, and then 
place on a hot platter. 

Maitre d'Hotel Fish. — Take what re- 
mains of any boiled fish, heat over a gentle 
fire until it is warmed through, and then 
spread over it a sauce made by rubbing 
one tablespoonful of butter to a cream, add 
pepper and salt as you like, one teaspoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, and the juice of a 
lemon ; set in the oven a moment, that the 
butter may penetrate the fish. 

Lrobster Croquettes. — Take any bits of 
lobster which you have left and pound it 



until the dark and light meat and the coral 
are well mixed ; mix with it not quite an 
equal quantity of fine bread-crumbs ; sea- 
son with pepper and salt and a few grains 
of cayenne ; add a little melted butter 
(if the bread is very dry it may require two 
tablespoonfuls). Form the mixture into 
egg-shaped balls, roll in egg and fine 
crumbs, and fry in boiling lard. 

Fish P)rrainid. — Two cupfuls of cold 
boiled fish, either cod, haddock, or halibut, 
picked up into flakes with a fork. Put into 
a saucepan what remains of the drawn but- 
ter, add the fish, seasoned with salt and 
pepper, and one cupful of boiled rice ; 
sprinkle in one teaspoonful of curry pow- 
der, and when all is thoroughly heated 



FISH. 



23 



pile it on a hot platter, put on it two hard- 
boiled eggs cut in slices and one teaspoon- 
ful of chopped parsley. 

Fish Toast. — Take cold boiled fish of 
any kind, pick it into flakes and heat in 
enough water to moisten it ; add a bit of 
butter, and season with pepper and salt. 
When it is hot, pour it on slices of buttered 
toast, and garnish with hard-boiled eggs, 
cut in slices. 

Fish Croquettes. — One cupful of cold 
boiled cod picked up very fine, two cupfuls 
of mashed potato ; mix all together very 
thoroughly, adding salt and pepper to taste; 
heat the potato and fish, stirring constantly, 
remove from the fire, and stir in one egg 



well beaten. When cold, form into cro- 
quettes, roll in egg and fine crumbs, and 
fry in very hot fat. 

Salmon Relish. — Put any bits of cold 
boiled salmon which are left from dinner 
into a jelly tumbler or small glass jar, and 
cover it with hot vinegar, seasoned with 
salt, pepper, and mace. Let it stand over 
night before using. This relish will keep 
several days. 

Creamed Halibut. — Scald two cupfuls 
of milk and, when hot, stir in one tablespoon- 
ful of butter, braided with one teaspoonful 
of flour ; when it thickens, remove from the 
fire. Butter a pudding-dish and fill with 
layers of the fish, sprinkle with pepper and 



24 MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 

salt and wet with the thickened milk. ^ and to three cupfuls of fish add one cupful 
Sprinkle over the top a few fine cracker- \ of mashed potato, a piece of butter as large 
crumbs, and bake about twenty minutes. I as a filbert, half a teaspoonful of com- 

? starch, and one beaten egg. Heat the ingre* 
Minced Cod, — Flake up cold baked cod, ^ dients all together, adding the egg last 



Beef. 



Beef. 



Ampthill Points.— Chop very fine, or 
put through a mincing-machine, bits of cold 
beefsteak. To one pint of meat, measured 
without pressing down, put one cupful of 
very dry fine crumbs, one heaping teaspoon- 
ful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, 
one pinch of sage, two teaspoonfuls of Har- 
vey's Sauce ; mix all thoroughly, and mois- 
ten with a little stock, sufficiently to have 
it stick together. Heat in a saucepan, and 
when hot stir in a beaten ^^% and cook a 
moment. Remove from the fire, press it 
down hard and jevenly in the saucepan, and 
when it has cooled a little turn out in a 



cake. This can be easily done, by laying a 
Washington pie-tin the size of the saucepan 
over it, and reversing them quickly ; tap the 
bottom of the saucepan with a knife-handle 
and the meat will drop oui-in a cake. Put 
a buttered paper over it and set away to 
cool. When perfectly cold, cut in pieces 
like a small piece of pie, cover each slice 
with beaten ^^"g^ and then with dry bread- 
crumbs, rolled and sifted ; lift carefully into 
the frying basket, and plunge in hot lard. 
They will brown very quickly and should 
be arranged on a hot platter, the points 
all meeting in the centre, so as to form a 



28 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



pyramid. Stick a bit of parsley in each 
point. 

Beef and Potato Pie. — Cut cold roast 
beef or rare-done beefsteak into thin slices, 
and put a layer into a pie-dish ; dredge in 
a little flour, salt and pepper, then peel and 
slice in, one tomato, with one tablespoonful 
of grated onion ; put another layer of beef, 
and pour in enough gravy or soup stock to 
moisten it. Have ready one large cupful of 
mashed potato, moistened with enough milk 
to make it soft, spread this over the top of 
the pie, and bake about twenty-five minutes. 
Just before taking it from the oven rub a 
little butter over the top. 



of salt pork into dice, and fry until brown ; 
pour in a little stock, or water, in which 
cook three or four potatoes cut in slices, a 
sprig of parsley, thyme, and a small. bay- 
leaf, pepper and salt. Half an hour before 
serving, put in your slices of beef, adding a 
dash of vinegar, if you like. 

Miroton. — Fry in butter three or four 
onions cut in slices ; when they are of a 
good color add a little flour, a little stock, 
and mushrooms if you have them. Let 
them simmer until the onion is soft enough 
to mash fine ; then put in your beef in thin 
slices, and let it cook a little while. Some 
add, just before serving, a little vinegar. 



Beef en Ragout. — Cut one or two slices S Beef au Gratin. — Put in a dish which 



BEEF. 



39 



will bear the oven, a few bits of cold boiled 
pork or ham, if you have it, if not, a little 
butter and water, add two or three mush- 
rooms, parsley, chives (or a bit of onion) ; 
cover with cracker-crumbs, or dry bread- 
crumbs ; lay upon this, slices of cold beef, 
cover with the crumbs, moisten with a little 
stock, and bake in a gentle oven. When 
cooked through, put on the upper slide to 
brown. 

Cecils. — Mince fine one cupful of rare 
roast beef, add one-fourth cupful of dry 
bread-crumbs, one-fourth of a small onion, 
grated, one teaspoonful of chopped pars- 
ley, one-fourth a teaspoonful of pepper, and 
one teaspoonful of salt ; stir in a little good 
stock, and one egg, beaten. The mixture 



should be as soft as you can handle it 
Heat all together, and when it is cool, mold 
in the bowl of a spoon into egg-shaped 
balls, roll in fine crumbs, and fry a light 
brown in Aot lard. Make a gravy of one 
cup of stock, thickened with browned flour, 
and flavored with one teaspoonful of Hal- 
ford Sauce and pour over the cecils. 

Persillade. — Warm over the fire, very 
thin slices of beef in a little stock, or dish 
gravy, and sprinkle with fine herbs ; pour 
over them hot, a little more stock, add a 
little lemon-juice, or a dash of vinegar, and 
garnish with parsley. 

Courtland Beef. — Shred rare roast beef 
fine, leaving in some of the fat Put in a 



30 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



small stewpan, which has been rubbed with 
a clove of garlic, a little water, and half a 
small onion, pepper and salt ; boil until 
the onion is quite soft, then put some of 
the gravy of the meat in it, and the mince. 
Do not let it boil. Have ready a hot dish 
with triangles of toasted bread laid around 
it ; mix a little vinegar with the meat, and 
serve. 

Tongue Hash. — Chop the heel of a cold 
boiled tongue, and add twice as much 
chopped boiled potato, and enough mustard 
to season it. Put a piece of butter as large 
as an English walnut into a frying-pan, 
moving the pan about as it melts, so that 
every part may be thoroughly coated. Put 
in the hash, and press it down firmly, adding 



enough hot water to moisten it slightly. 
When it begins to cook, press it away from 
the sides of the pan, so as to have it in 
an oval form, and as soon as it is brown, 
turn out on a hot platter, and garnish with 
pickled beet, cut in fancy shapes. 

Potted Beef. — Remove all bone and 
gristle, and chop very fine, the remnants of 
cold roast beef ; season with salt, and a 
very little cayenne pepper, and a pinch of 
clove, mace, and sage. Moisten with stock 
which has been boiled down with a bit of 
onion in it ; it should be strong enough to 
be very hard jelly when cold. Rub an 
earthen gallipot with a clove of garlic and 
press the meat into it. Place the gallipot 
in a pan of hot water, and bake two hours. 



BEEF. 



31 



Beef Salad. — Cut delicate slices of cold 
roast or boiled beef ; arrange with a garnish 
of cresses, or rounds of pickled cucumbers, 
or shrimps^ and serve with salad dressing. 

Beef Balls. — Chop cold roast beef, or 
bits of beefsteak, very fine, freeing them 
from bits of gristle, but leaving in the fat. 
To half a pint of meat, put one small cup- 
ful of crumbs, rolled and sifted, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, pepper to taste. Moisten 
the whole with any soup or stock you may 
have, add a little Worcestershire Sauce, 
heat all together, and then stir in one egg 
well beaten. Set the mixture away to cool. 
When cold form into balls, roll in egg and 
fine crumbs, and fry in a frying-basket for 
two minutes. 



Corned Beef Hash. — Chop cold corned 
beef, and to one cupful of meat add two 
cupfuls of cold boiled potatoes, chopped ; 
mix in one teaspoonful of dry mustard, and 
a little pepper. Put a piece of butter as 
large as half an egg in a frying-pan and let 
it melt slowly, rubbing the lump around, so 
that the pan will be thoroughly buttered. 
Put in the hash, pressing it down smoothly 
all over the pan, pour in hot water enough 
to moisten it slightly, and let ifcook without 
stirring at all, until you think it is brown 
on the bottom ; you can tell by pressing 
it back from the sides with a knife — when 
it just begins to brown on the sides it is 
done. Turn out on a hot platter in a cake. 
Put rounds of pickled cucumber about the 
edge. 



32 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



Pressed Beef. — As soon as your boiled 
corned beef comes from the dinner-table, 
while it is still warm, chop fat and lean to- 
gether. It does not need to be made very- 
fine, only so that fat and lean may be thor- 
oughlj- mixed. Stir in enough dry mustard 
to flavor it. Put the meat in a baking-tin 
and put another tin of the same size inside 
the one containing the meat ; put in this 
two or three flatirons, for a weight, and let 
the meat staAd over night. The next day it 
will turn out in a good loaf, from which 
nice slices can be cut 

Chapel Hash.— Cut bits of cold beef- 
steak into mouthfuls, and put the bones 
and trimmings which you have left, into a 
saucepan, with enough cold )vater to cover 



them. When the water has boiled five min- 
utes, take out the bones, and put in your bits 
of beef, with twice the quantity of cold po- 
tatoes, cut in pieces, add pepper and salt, 
and boil all together half an hour. 

Breslau of Beef. — Mince cold roast 
beef very fine, and to one cupful, allow 
half a cupful of minced salt tongue, sea- 
son with half a teaspoonful of salt, and one- 
fourth teaspoonf ul of pepper ; add one 
egg. Press the mixture into a small bowl, 
and then turn out on a buttered tin sheet, 
brush over with egg, sprinkle on a few fine 
cracker-crumbs, and brown in the oven. 

Beef and Tomato Sauce. — Peel half a 
dozen medium-sized tomatoes, and stew 



BEEF. 



33 



them with a very small bit of red pepper, a 
little salt, two cloves of garlic, half a bay- 
leaf, a sprig of thyme, and a sprig of pars- 
ley. When the tomatoes are soft, strain 
and return the juice to the fire, with one 
even dessertspoonful of sugar, and a piece 
of butter as large as a nutmeg. Prepare 
a thickening, by stirring one heaping tea- 
spoonful of flour, with a little cold water, 
when it is smooth, add gradually to the 
boiling juice, stirring constantly. It should 
be as thick as a thin custard when it is 
done. Have ready cold roast beef, cut in 
slices, and pour the boiling sauce over it 
a few minutes before serving. 

Beef Cakes. — Chop some beef that is 
rare, with a little fat bacon or ham, season 



with pepper, salt, and a little onion, mix well, 
and form into small cakes. Fry them a Mght 
brown, and serve with a good gravy made of 
soup stock thickened with browned flour. 

Fricassee of Cold Roast Beef. — Cut 

the beef into very thin slices, shred a hand- 
ful of parsley very fine, cut a small onion into 
quarters, and put all together into a stew- 
pan, with a small piece of butter and some 
strong soup stock ; season with salt and 
pepper, and simmer very gently fifteen min- 
utes ; then mix in the yolks of two eggs 
and a teaspoon of Worcestershire Sauce. 
Rub a hot dish with a clove of garlic and 
turn the fricassee into it. 

Puff Paste. — The only way of economiz-^ 



34 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



ing in pastry is not to have it so frequent-' 
ly as to tempt the prudent housekeeper to 
inflict on her family the pale, tough com« 
pound which is usually called "plain pie 
crust." Good pastry or none, should be the 
only alternative. For meat pies, the crust 
should be flaky and delicate. The following 
receipt will prove satisfactory if it is followed 
exactly, although the process is not so elab- 
orate as some cooks recommend. The best 
results cannot be obtained in warm weath- 
er, for pastry should always be made in a 
cool place, and all the ingredients should 
be very cold. 

Put one pint of sifted pastry flour into 
the bowl. Have ready one cupful of nice 
butter, from this take a piece as large as a 
small egg and cut it into the flour, then rub 



with the hand until the butter is thoroughly 
mixed. Pour in ice-water, a little at a 
time, stirring it into the flour, until you 
have a very hard dough. As soon as you 
can make it form into a mass, it is moist 
enough. Divide what remains of your but- 
ter into three equal parts. Take out the 
dough on a floured board, and roll it out, 
touching it with the hands as little as pos- 
sible. Put little bits of butter all over it 
until you have used one of your three 
pieces, dredge lightly with flour, and begin- 
ning at the end nearest you, roll up the crust 
in a tight roll, without pressing it with the 
hands. Cut the roll in three pieces, and 
place the pieces on top of each other, hav- 
ing the cut ends come at the sides, so as to 
have it in the same position as before* 



BEEF. 



35 



Press down with the rolling-pin, and roll it 
out again, being careful to keep it in the 
same position on the board. Roll in the 
other third of butter in exactly* the same 
manner, always keeping it in the same posi- 
tion. After the third piece has been put in, 
the crust should be put in the ice-chest or 
cellar for a while. If you like, it can be 
kept several days. When you wish to make 
the pies, press the rolls down flat and roll 
out as before, so as to keep the layers right, 
that the pastry may puff up. The bits 
which are left from each pie should be laid 
flat on top of each other, instead of being 
molded into a lump. This kind of pastry 
can be rolled very thin, and if baked in a 
quick oven will puff up to many times its 
original thickness. This quantity of crust 



will make three medium-sized apple-pies, 
or will be sufficient for quite a large meat* 
pie. 

Beef Pie, — Line the sides of a pudding* 
dish with puff paste made as directed above. 
Lay in, small slices of cold roast beef, pep- 
per, salt, then a few slices of cold boiled 
potatoes, proceed in this way until the dish 
is full. Pour over it a cup of gravy, and the 
same quantity of canned tomato. Cover 
with pastry, putting a rim of it round the 
edge of the dish, before you put on the 
cover ; ornament with strips or leaves of 
pastry. Bake half an hour. 

This makes a good dinner for Monday, if 
you reserve enough pastry for the crust 
from Saturday's baking. 



36 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



Beef JLoaf* — One pound and three- 
quarters of rare beef, chopped very fine, fat 
and lean together (remove all the gristle) ; 
five Boston crackers rolled and sifted ; a 
piece of butter as large as an English wal- 
nut; two eggs well beaten; one heaping 
teaspoon of salt ; half a teaspoon of pepper ; 
half a teaspoon of cinnamon; half a. teaspoon 
of allspice ; half a teaspoon of sage ; a pinch 
of clove ; the same of mace and nutmeg. 
Knead all together very thoroughly. Make 
into a loaf, rub a little butter over it, and 
bake about two hours slowly. When cold, 
cut in thin slices. It is better not to cut it 
until the day after it is baked. 

Spiced Beef Relish. — One pound of 
rare beef chopped very fine (if you have a 



mincing-machine put it through that); three 
Boston crackers, rolled and sifted. Add 
salt and pepper to taste ; one tablespoonful 
of Harvey's Sauce, and a pinch of sweet 
marjoram ; one egg well beaten. Work all 
together with the hand until it is thorough- 
ly mixed. Form in a loaf by pressing into 
a bowl, and turn out on a buttered tin. Rub 
a little butter over it, and pour on a large 
cup of the juice of canned tomato. Set in 
the oven and bake three-quarters of an hour, 
basting frequently with the tomato. The 
next day serve cold. 

Beef Croquettes. — One cup of lean beef; 
half a cup of the fat ; half a cup of cold 
boiled or fried ham ; a piece of onion as 
large as a silver dollar : one teaspoonful of 



BEEF. 



37 



salt ; half a teaspoonful of pepper ; a pinch 
of sage ; and a little grated lemon-peel. 
Chop all as fine as possible, or put through 
a mincing-machine. Heat, with half a cup 
of stock, or cold soup, and add one egg well 
beaten. Form into croquettes ; roll in flour 
or fine crumbs, and fry in hot lard. 

Chipolata. — Put a piece of butter as 
large as a nutmeg in a frying-pan, and when 
it is hot, slice into it half a small onion. 



When the onion is fried brown, pour in one 
cup of cold beef or tomato soup, and add 
one sprig of thyme, one bay leaf, one sprig 
of parsley, with salt and pepper. When it 
boils, stir in a thickening of one heaping 
teaspoonful of flour, wet with cold water. 
Add a little caramel, and just before serv- 
ing put thin slices of cold roast beef into 
the gravy, and let them heat through. Pour 
on a hot dish, and garnish with stoned 
olives. 



Mutton and Lamb. 



1 



Mutton and Lamb, 



Sanders. — Mince cold mutton with a 
very little onion ; add pepper and salt to 
taste, and enough gravy to moisten it thor- 
oughly. Put into patty-pans, and cover the 
top with mashed potato, mixed with a little 
cream. Put a bit of butter on the top of 
each, and put in the oven to brown. 

Mutton Pie. — Cut cold mutton in slices, 
and lay in a pudding-dish ; sprinkle with 
salt, pepper, and chopped parsley ; put in 
then a layer of cold potatoes sliced thin, and 
then meat as before. Moisten with strong 
stock in which an onion has been 'boiled. 



Cover with pastry made as directed on page 
35, and bake twenty minutes. 

Mutton and Rice. — Mince into dice, 
pieces of cold mutton ; add one cupful of 
cold boiled rice, to one cupful of meat. But- 
ter a saucepan thoroughly, pour in a little 
water, add the mutton and rice, and stir 
until it is hot ; then pour in two eggs slight- 
ly beaten, and stir until the eggs are cooked ; 
sprinkle with pepper and salt to taste. 

Scrambled Mutton. — Two cupfuls of 
chopped cold mutton ; two tablespoonfulsof 



42 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



hot water, and a piece of butter as large as 
an English walnut. When the meat is hot, 
break into it three eggs, and cook until the 
eggs begin to stiffen, stirring it constantly. 
Season with pepper and salt. 

Michel. — Cut cold boiled mutton in bits 
as large as a chestnut, and mix with it twice 
the quantity of cold boiled or baked pota- 
toes, cut in the same way ; add what remains 
of your drawn butter — you will need about 
a cupful of drawn butter to a quart of meat 
and potato — heat all together and serve very 
hot. Garnish with rounds of pickled cu- 
cumbers. 

Mutton RechaufF*.— If you have a leg 
of mutton from which only a few slices have 



been cut, you can make it presentable a 
second time by heating it in a Warren's 
Cooker, or a steamer, and then filling in the 
place where the meat was cut out with hot 
mashed potato ; rub a little gravy over it, 
and set in the oven to brown. 

Lamb Scallop. — One cupful of cold 
lamb, chopped fine ; one cupful of stewed 
tomato ; one cupful of fine bread crumbs. 
Arrange all in layers in a buttered dish, 
having the crumbs at the top ; season with 
salt and pepper, put bits of butter on top 
and bake. 

Mutton in Browned Sauce. — Cut the 
meat from cold roast mutton, in small slices ; 
put all the gristle, hard bits, and bones, 



r 



MUTTON AND LAMB. 



43 



broken up, in enough cold water to cover 
them, and put on to boil. Put a little of 
the fat in a frying-pan, and when hot, slice 
into it a small onion, and fry until it is 
brown. Boil down the stock, until you have 
about a cupful, and pour it over your fried 
onion ; add salt and pepper, and a thickening 
of one even teaspoonful of corn-starch, wet 
with cold water. When it has all boiled, re- 
move the bits of onion, and put in a table- 
spoonful of Harvey Sauce, and enough 
caramel to make the gravy a good brown ; 
add the meat, and let it heat through only. 

Mutton in Tomato Sauce. — Peel and 
slice six tomatoes, and boil them until ten- 
der, with one bay leaf, two sprigs of parsley, 
one clove of garlic. When they are cooked 



sufficiently, strain, and return to the fire. 
Mix one tablespoonful of butter with a heap- 
ing teaspoonful of flour ; add a little pf the 
hot juice, stir until it is free from lumps, 
and pour into the sauce. Stir until it thick- 
ens slightly ; add pepper and salt to taste, 
and one very small lump of sugar. Have 
ready your cold boiled or roast mutton, cut 
in thin slices, pour the hot sauce over it, 
and let it stand on the back of the stove 
until the meat is heated through. 

Shepherd's Pie. — Butter a small platter 
very thoroughly, and spread over it warm 
mashed potato mixed with enough milk to 
make it a little soft. Flute the potato 
around the edge of the platter with the 
tines of a silver fork, set in the oven to 



44 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



brown ; when it is as brown as pie-crust, 
and stiffened enough so that it could be 
qasily cut, pour over it a mince of cold mut- 
ton, niade by cutting the meat in small bits, 
and warming it in a little thickened gravy. 
This makes a delicious breakfast dish. 

Mutton in Sauce Blanche. — Put in a 
bowl a piece of butter as large as an egg, 
and one tablespoonful of flour ; rub together 
until it is thoroughly mixed ; then pour on 
one coffee-cupful of boiling water ; set the 
bowl into the top of the tea-kettle, and stir 
until the mixture is smooth and thick, like 
a custard. Have ready cold boiled mutton, 
cut in pieces as large as half a dollar, and 
sprinkled with pepper and salt, stir the 
meat into the boiling sauce — there should 



be twice as much mutton as sauce — pour 
on a hot platter, and garnish with hard- 
boiled eggs, cut in slices. 

Mutton en Hochepot. — Put into a fry- 
ing-pan a bit of butter as large as a walnut, 
and when very hot, lay into it slices of cold 
roast mutton, dredged with flour, and keep 
them in just long enough to brown slightly ; 
take out the meat, and put in a warm place ; 
add a little more butter, and slice in half 
an onion, two potatoes, half a turnip. Fry 
all a good brown, and then turn in one cup- 
ful of stock, or cold soup ; let all boil up 
until the vegetables are tender, and then re- 
turn the meat to the gravy and serve. 

French Hash. — Chop your mutton very 



MUTTON AND LAMB. 



45 



fine, and mix with one cup of meat one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one-quarter teaspoonful of 
pepper, one teaspoonful of chopped onion, 
one teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Put 
a piece of butter as large as a walnut in a 
frying-pan, and when it is melted put in 
the meat, and let it brown ; then pour in 
enough stock to moisten it slightly, and 
serve with strips of bread which have been 
fried crisp in very hot fat. 

Lamb k la Matelot. — Cut rather thick 
slices of cold lamb, beat one eggy and 
lay the slices in the beaten egg. Lift the 
pieces of lamb one by one from the beaten 
eggy let them drain a moment, and then cover 
each piece with sifted crumbs, seasoned with 
pepper and salt, and fry in Aof lard. 



Egg Scallop. — Cut cold boiled mutton 
into small pieces. If you have none of the 
drawn butter left, make a little stock with 
the dry bits of meat and gristle. Allow two 
cups of meat to one cup of gravy. Butter 
a small pudding-dish, and sprinkle the bot- 
tom with dry crumbs ; pour on the meat 
and gravy, seasoned with pepper and salt, 
and one teaspoonful of chopped onion ; 
cover the top with dry bread crumbs, mak- 
ing the dish not quite full, and having the 
top as smooth as possible ; put little bits 
of butter over the crumbs ; cover with a 
plate, and bake about twenty minutes ; 
then take off the plate and break enough 
eggs over the top to cover the crumbs 
and return to the oven until the eggs are 
cooked. 



46 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



Potato Pie. — Mince cold mutton with a 
very little onion, pepper and salt to taste ; 
put in enough gravy to make it quite 
moist, and a few capers. Pour the mixture 
into a buttered pudding-dish, spread the 
top with mashed potato, and put in the 
oven; when it is very hot, rub a piece of 
butter over the top, and return to the oven 
to brown. 

Tomato Pie. — Butter a pudding-dish, 
and sprinkle the bottom with crumbs ; then 
lay in slices of cold mutton, sprinkle with 
pepper and salt, cover the top thickly with 
slices of raw tomato, being careful not to 
leave on a bit of the skin ; sprinkle on 
pepper and salt and half a teaspoonful of 
sugar ; sift fine bread-crumbs over the 



top ; put on a teaspoonful of butter, cut 
up in little bits, and bake slowly until it is 
brown. 

Bordered Mutton. — Two cups of stock, 
made from boiling the bones and hard bits 
of the mutton ; when it boils, stir in a thick- 
ening made by stirring one tablespoonful 
of browned flour with a little cold water ; 
when tlic gravy is thick and smooth, put in 
your slices of cold mutton, sprinkled with 
salt and pepper, and let the meat heat for a 
few minutes in the hot gravy ; have a hot 
platter ready, and heap the meat in the 
centre of it ; put around the edge a border 
of l\ot boiled rice — this should be cooked 
so that the grains will be soft, and yet not 
mashed together. 



MUTTON AND LAMB. 



47 



Minced Mutton. — Chop cold mutton 
very fine, and put in a frying-pan with cold 
gravy enough to moisten it ; season with 
pepper and salt ; as soon as it is very hot, 
pour it on slices of buttered toast, and gar- 
nish with sliced lemon. 

Haricot of Mutton. — If you have part 
of a leg of boiled mutton, saw off the end of 
the bone from which the meat has been cut, 
so as to leave the remainder in a good 
shape ; put both pieces into a closely cov- 
ered sauce-pan ; cut in dice, one carrot, one 
'turnip, and one onion ; put in four cloves 
and half a teaspoonful of salt ; pour in hot 
water enough to cover the mutton, and 
simmer gently until the vegetables are very 
soft ; then take out the meat and the bone, 



thicken the gravy with two teaspoonfuls 
of flour, wet in cold water ; let it boil up 
after the meat is removed, and turn it over 
the mutton. 

Chelsea Mutton. — Cut cold roast mut- 
ton into thin slices, taking off all the pieces 
of gristle or hard bits. Put into a stewpan, 
and pour over it what remains of the gravy, 
in which one stalk of celery, a sprig of 
thyme, and a very small bit of red pepper 
have been boiled. Cook just long enough 
to heat the meat through. 

Golden Mutton. — Cut cold roast mutton 
into nice slices and lay in a buttered pie- 
dish with pepper, salt, and one tablespoon- 
ful of currant jelly ; add the cold gravy ; 



48 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



and if you have not enough to moisten it, > 
put in a little water; dredge the top lightly 
with flour, and cover it with boiled rice, in 
which you have mixed a little butter, pep- 
per, and salt ; pour over it a beaten egg, 
and bake in a slow oven until the top is deli- 
cately browned. 

Turkish Pilap. — Take one pint of good 
stock, or the same quantity of rich soup ; 
add half a cup of tomato juice. When the 
soup boils, stir in half a cup of raw rice, 
well washed, and cook twenty minutes in a 
double boiler or tea-kettle pail. By this 
time the rice should have absorbed the 
soup. Stir into this one cup of cold lamb, 
cut in small pieces. When it has cooked 



long enough to heat the meat, stir in three 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and serve 
in five minutes. 

Maryland Pic. — Pare six medium-sized 
potatoes, cover with hot water and boil 
until they are soft, mash them with a little 
milk and salt. Butter a small pudding- 
dish, and put some of the potato around 
the sides. Lay in slices of cold mutton, 
that which is a little rare is best. Put in 
pepper and salt, a wine glass of catchup, 
and enough gravy to make the meat quite 
moist. Cover with mashed potato, score it 
with a knife, and bake in the oven about 
forty minutes. Just as it begins to brown 
rub a little butter over the top. 



r 



Veal. 



VeaL 



Blanquette Dijon. — Half a cupful of 
cooked ham, chopped very fine ; one cup- 
ful and a half of cold veal, cut in thin bits 
as large as a quarter of a dollar. 

Butter a saucepan, and pour in a coflfee- 
cup of milk, the richer the better, no matter 
if it is cream ; when it boils stir in one 
heaping teaspoon of flour wet with cold 
milk ; let it boil until it is as thick as a 
thin custard, then add the meat, a teaspoon 
of salt, and a little pepper, and a dust of 
nutmeg ; when it is hot stir in the yolk of 
one ^^"gi beaten up with one-third of a cup 
of cold milk ; stir for a minute and then 



pour on a hot platter, and garnish with hard 
boiled eggs and slices of lemon. 

Veal Pasties. — Cut cold veal into dice, 
and to one cupful of veal allow one table- 
spoonful of grated ham ; heat with half a 
cupful of sweet cream ; season with pep- 
per, salt, and a very little nutmeg. 

Have ready some large tarts made of puff 
paste (see page 33), and just before serving 
put a spoonful of the mince in each. If you 
like you can lay a thin slice of lemon on top. 

Garnishing Jelly. — Boil the bones of 



52 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



veal, with a bit of onion, letting the stock 
boil down until it is quite strong. When 
it is cold, remove the fat, and to one coffee- 
cupful of the stock, add salt and pepper, 
half a bay leaf, a dust of nutmeg, and a few 
drops of lemon-juice. Soak one-fourth of 
a box of gelatine one hour in cold water, 
and then add it to the boiling stock ; when 
it has dissolved, add enough caramel to 
make it a good color. Strain on a platter, 
having the jelly about half an inch thick 
over it, and set in a cold place. When it is 
hard, it can be cut in little cubes and used 
to garnish cold meats, etc. Thin slices 
of cold veal and ham, arranged alternately 
on a platter, with a little of this jelly on 
each slice of veal, and a few rounds of 
pickled cucumbers around the edge of the 



platter, is an attractive dish for the tea- 
table. 

Veal Croquettes. — One heaping cupful 
of chopped veal ; one cupful of bread- 
crumbs, very dry and fine ; two teaspoon- 
fuls of lemon-juice ; one teaspoonful of 
salt ; a very little red pepper ; a pinch of 
sage ; one teaspoonful of chopped pars- 
ley ; moisten with a little sweet milk ; heat 
it, and add one Qgg w^ell beaten. It is im- 
possible to tell the exact quantity of milk, 
as the crumbs may take up a good deal. 
The mixture should be as soft as you can 
handle when it is cold. When it is cool 
form into rolls about four inches long and 
less than an inch in diameter, roll in 
sifted cracker-crumbs, then in egg, and 



VEAL. 



then in crumbs again, and fry in very 
lard. 



S3 



hot 



Spring Croquettes. — Chop cold roast 
veal very fine. If you have an English 
mincing machine, it will be fine and dry, 
but if you are obliged to do it by hand, have 
your chopping knife as sharp as possible, 
and only put a little at a time into the chop- 
ping bowl. To three cupfuls of veal, put 
half a cupful of grated or chopped ham, half 
a teaspoon of pepper, and two teaspoons of 
salt ; half a teaspoonful of celery salt, and 
a very little nutmeg, and half a cupful 
of dry bread-crumbs. Mix all well together, 
and pour in enough stock, made of the trim- 
mings of your veal, and your ham bone, to 
make it as moist as mince-pie meat Heat 



all together and then stir in two beaten eggs 
and cook a moment. Set the mixture away 
to cool. When it is cold form into cro- 
quettes, roll in sifted crumbs, then in beaten 
6g& ^^^ again in crumbs. Fry a light 
brown. 

Baked Croquettes. — Two cupfuls of 
finely chopped veal ; half a cupful of dry 
bread-crumbs ; one teaspoonful of salt ; 
half a teaspoonful of pepper ; a pinch of 
mace ; one Ggg well beaten. Form in cro» 
quettes, roll in egg and cracker-crumbs, and 
bake in a quick oven. 

Veal Toast. — One coffee-cup of chop- 
ped veal ; one cup of hot water ; a piece of 
butter as large as a butternut ; one tea- 



54 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



spoonful of salt, and one-fourth teaspoonful 
of pepper. Have ready on a platter slices 
of bread toasted brown, and buttered ; if the 
crusts are hard, dip the edges in hot water. 
When the minced veal is thoroughly hot, 
pour it on the toast, and serve at once. 

Veal Dice. — Cut cold veal into dice ; 
boil the outside and hard bits in a little 
water ; while this is cooking, rub one table- 
spoonful of butter into one heaping tea- 
spoonful of flour; strain off the boiling stock, 
and mix with the butter and flour, stirring 
until it is smooth ; sprinkle salt and pepper 
over the meat, and stir it into the gravy you 
have just made ; pour on a hot platter, and 
slice two hard boiled eggs over the top. To 
make enough for breakfast for four persons, 



you will need one and one-half cups of the 
veal, and one cup of the gravy. 

Veal in Batter. — Make a batter of as 
much flour as can be heaped on a tablespoon, 
and one cupful of milk ; stir the milk grad- 
ually into the flour so as to make the mix- 
ture perfectly smooth ; add one egg well 
beaten ; pour a little of the batter in the bot- 
tom of a buttered pudding-dish, then put in 
cold veal cut in bits and seasoned with salt 
and pepper, and a little shred onion ; pour 
the remainder of the batter over it, and bake 
in a slow oven. 

Veal Salad. — Cut pieces of cold veal 
into bits, not as small as dice ; put in it an 
equal quantity of celery, cut in small pieces ; 



VEAL. 



55 



mix thoroughly, and pour over it a little of 
the dressing, reserving the rest to put on 
the top when it is arranged in the dish ; 
garnish with lettuce-leaves and hard boiled 
eggs cut in slices. Lettuce can be substi- 
tuted for celerv. 

Dressing. — Mix one dessert-spoonful of 
dry mustard, half a teaspoonful of salt, 
one-quarter teaspoonful of pepper, half a 
teaspoonful of celery salt, with one table- 
spoonful of butter ; when it is all thor- 
oughly stirred together, add the yolks of 
two eggs ; beat well, and stir into one 
cupful of hot sweet cream ; stir all togeth- 
er over the tea-kettle, until it thickens like 
a custard, take from the fire, and add two 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 



Veal Hash. — Chop half a pint of fricas- 
seed veal. Do not make it as fine as you 
would for croquettes. Put one cupful of the 
gravy in a saucepan. If you have not as much 
as that, make some by boiling the tough bits 
of meat and the bones in a little water. 
When hot add pepper and salt, and stir in 
the meat. Let it first heat through, and 
then pour it on a platter. Garnish with 
hard-boiled eggs, cut in slices. 

Galantine. — Two cupfuls of cold veal, 
chopped fine, and measured without press- 
ing ; half a cupful of cold ham, with a lit- 
tle of the fat chopped with it. Soak one- 
quarter box of Cox*s gelatine in a little cold 
water ; boil the dry bits of your veal with 
salt, pepper, a bit of onion, one-half a bay- 



S6 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



leaf, and a bit of parsley ; strain, and add 
to the stock the soaked gelatine ; season 
the veal and ham, with salt, pepper, a little 
nutmeg, and sage, and a little lemon-juice. 
Mix well, and put it in a small baking-tin or a 
bowl, being careful not to pack it down 
tightly ; pour in the stock, having boiled it 
down until you have just enough to fill the 
mold ; let it stand over night, and the 
next day turn out on a platter and garnish 
with parsley. 

Breakfast Veal. — Butter a small oval 
dish very thoroughly, and fill with bits of 
cold stewed veal, seasoned with pepper, salt, 
and a little nutmeg ; put in alternately with 
layers of cracker-crumbs ; moisten with 
gravy, put bits of butter over the top, and 



bake. When it is brown turn out of the 
dish on a hot platter and garnish with pars- 
ley. If it is not too moist it will keep its 
form when it is turned out. 

Veal Pie. — Take what remains of stewed 
or fricasseed veal, line the sides of a pud- 
ding-dish with nice pastry, and lay in the 
cold veal with the gravy, adding pepper and 
salt, if required. A few raw oysters are an 
improvement. Cover the tap with pastry^, 
ornamented with bits cut into fancy shapes, 
and bake until the crust is done. Make the 
crust as directed for Beef Pie on page ^^, 

Roast Veal Pie. — Cut cold roast veal 
into slices, with the stuffing, and lay them 
in a deep dish, adding pepper and salt ; 



VEAL. 



57 



dredge lightly with flour, and put in the 
gravy that was left, with a little hot water 
added to it ; a dish that holds three pints 
will require one cupful of gravy. Cover 
the top of the pie with a crust made as fol- 
lows. One pint of flour with two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder sifted through it ; add 
a piece of butter as large as half an eggy 
rubbing it into the flour with the hand. 
Wet with sweet milk enough to make a 
dough as soft as you can handle it. Differ- 
ent qualities of flour differ in the quantity 
of wetting required. 

Salem Veal. — Cut cold veal into slices ; 
put a piece of butter as large as a small egg 
into a frying-pan, and when it is hot dredge 
in a very little flour and put in the slices of 



meat which you have sprinkled with flour, 
salt, and a little pepper. When the meat is 
brown, take it out, and add a cup of cold 
gravy, and a wine-glass of tomato catchup. 
If you have a few slices of cold ham, put 
those in the gravy, and pour it over the 
veal. 

Scalloped Veal. — Mince cold veal very 
fine. Put a layer in the bottom of a but- 
tered pudding-dish, season with pepper, 
salt, and a very little nutmeg ; then put in 
a thin layer of fine cracker-crumbs, then 
another layer of meat, and so on until the 
dish is full. Wet with good broth, in which 
an onion has been boiled. If you have no 
broth, make a little, by boiling the bones 
and trimmings of your veal. Put over the 



58 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



top a layer of cracker-crumbs, wet into a 
paste with a little milk, and mixed with a 
beaten egg. If your oven is not very slow, 
it is best to cover the dish with a pan for 
the first half hour, and then let it brown ten 
minutes after you uncover it. 

Creamed Veal. — Chop cold veal, or cut 
it in small thin slices, leaving out the stringy 
part, for your stock kettle. If you have a 
pint of meat it will be enough for a hand- 
some dish. Put one teacup of rich milk into 
the teakettle-pail, and when hot, add one 
tablespoonful of flour and one of butter 
braided together. Let it boil up, and then 
stir in the veal, seasoned with pepper, salt, a 
pinch of mace, and a slice of onion. When 
hot, pour on a platter edged with leaves of 



puff pastry, and lay a few on top of the 
mince. The leaves can be made of rem- 
nants of pastry when you are making pies, 
and will keep for a week, needing only to be 
heated through, when you wish to use them. 

Waverly Veal. — One cup of finely 
chopped veal ; one even teaspoonful of salt ; 
one-quarter teaspoonful of pepper, and a 
pinch of mace. Heat with half a cupful 
of milk — cream is better if you have it. 
When hot, fill earthen patty- pans, sift fine 
bread-crumbs over the top, put on each a 
very small bit of butter, and bake until 
brown. 

Veal Jelly. — Chop cold veal ver}' fine ; 
put the bones and hard pieces on to boil in 



VEAL. 



59 



enough cold water to cover them. Soak 
one-quarter of a box of gelatine in cold wa- 
ter an hour or more. If you have two cups 
of meat, put in one even teaspoonful of salt, 
one-quarter teaspoonful of pepper, a dust 
of nutmeg ; take a tin or a bowl, and put on 
the bottom cold boiled eggs sliced, and on 
that, place your chopped meat ; boil down 
your stock until you have only one cupful, 
adding sajt to your taste, and while it is hot, 
stir in the gelatine, and pour all over the 
veal in bowl, being sure to fill all the space 
left. The next day turn out on a platter, 
and garnish with sliced lemon. 

Ragout. — Cut cold veal cutlets into small 
pieces ; put a piece of butter as large as a 
walnut in a frying-pan, and when hot, drop 



in the veal and stir a few moments ; dredge 
in a little flour and then pour in one cup 
of stock, made by boiling the bone and dry 
bits of your veal ; season with salt and pep- 
per, and let it boil up ; then add four cold 
boiled potatoes, cut in slices ; rub your 
platter with a clove of garlic, and pour the 
ragout on it. 

Blanquette of Veal. — Cut the veal in 
thin slices, and put in a saucepan a piece 
of butter as large as an egg, and when it is 
nielted, put in a teaspoonful of flour. Be 
careful to have it thoroughly mixed with 
the butter, but do not let it brown ; add salt, 
a little mace, and pepper ; pour in one cup- 
ful of hot water, then put in your sliced 
veal, and heat over a gentle fire. Just be- 



6q 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



fore serving, stir in the yolk of an egg. 
French cooks often add a few drops of 
vinegar, but one teaspoonful of lemon-juice 
is better. 

Veal and Tomatoes. — Arrange delicate 
slices of cold roast veal on a platter, and 
put over them sliced raw tomatoes, and 
pour over the dish a salad dressing made 
as follows : Rub to a powder with a sil- 



ver spoon the yolks of two hard-boiled 
eggs, add half a teaspoonful of salt, half a 
teaspoonful of pepper, half a teaspoonful 
of white sugar, half a teaspoonful of dry 
mustard. When the seasoning is mixed 
with the egg, add two tablespoonfuls of nice 
salad oil, stirring in gradually, and when 
well mixed, put in half a cupful of vinegar. 
The meat, tomatoes, and dressing should 
all be very cold. 



Poultry. 



Poultry. 



Roman Remoulu. — Cut the white meat 
of a cold chicken into thin slices, and mix 
with it some grated ham or tongue. To 
one pint of meat allow four ounces (twelve 
sticks) of macaroni, boiled until tender, half 
a cupful of sweet cream, pepper and salt to 
taste, and two eggs well beaten. Boil in a 
buttered mould three-quarters of an hour. 
Turn out carefully, and serve hot. 

Chicken Pur6c. — Pick into small bits 
cold roast or boiled chicken, and season it 
with salt and pepper. Boil the bones and 
skin, in enough water to cover them, strain 



and return to the fire. When it boils, stir in 
for one cupful of the stock, one small tea- 
spoonful of flour braided with one teaspoon- 
ful of butter. Add a little celery salt, and 
stir in the meat. Serve with triangles of 
bread which have been fried crisp in very 
hot lard. 

Macaronied Chicken. — Take what you 
have left of plain boiled macaroni, and cut 
it in short pieces. Arrange these around 
the edge of a small platter which has been 
thoroughly buttered. Grate a little cheese 
over it, and brown in a quick oven. Have 



64 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



ready one cupful of cold chicken cut in 
small bits, and heated with what remains of 
the gravy, or a little butter and water. Sea- 
son with pepper and salt, and pour on the 
bordered platter. 

Chicken Salad without Celery. — Cut 

cold chicken into small bits, or tear it into 
shreds; mix with it an equal quantity of 
nice raw cabbage chopped fine, season with 
pepper and celery salt. Prepare a dressing 
by beating the yolks of four eggs, add to 
these, half a cup of butter, half a cup of 
cream, half a gill of vinegar, one heaping 
tablespoonful of prepared mustard ; put the 
mixture into a bowl over the tea-kettle, or 
in a pan of hot water ; stir until it is thicker 
than boiled custard, and then take it from 



the fire. Take part of the dressing and thin 
it with vinegar until it can be easily mixed 
with the chicken and cabbage. Pour over 
the top the thick part of the dressing. 
Some persons add a little sugar. 

Rice and Chicken. — Take fricasseed 
chicken and remove the bones from the 
largest pieces, leaving the others in. Cover 
the bottom of a small pudding-dish with 
cold boiled rice, then put in a layer of the 
chicken sprinkled with pepper and salt ; 
then more rice, and so on until the dish is 
full. Have the last layer rice. Put in the 
gravy which is left, and cover the whole 
with the yolk of an egg well beaten. Set 
in the oven and bake until it is a light 
brown. 



POULTRY. 



65 



Chicken Tarts. — Mince cold chicken 
very fine, and season with pepper and salt to 
taste. Boil one cupful of milk with half an 
onion, and a blade of mace in it ; when it is 
scalding hot, take out the onion and mace, 
and stir in a thickening made of one tea- 
spoonful of flour wet with a little cold milk. 
When it has boiled a few minutes mix in 
two cupfuls of your chopped chicken. Have 
ready some rather large tarts made of puff 
paste, and put a spoonful of the mince in 
each. Directions for making the pastry are 
on page ss- 

Chicken Short -Cake. — Cut the meat 
from the largest pieces of cold stewed 
chicken and remove the bones — the wish- 
bone and other small pieces may be left 



whole— heat, adding more gravy if neces- 
sary, and when hot pour on a short-cake cut 
in pieces, made as follows : 

Short-Cake. — Mix two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder with one pint of flour. 
Rub into it a small half cupful of butter, 
and then add one cupful of sweet milk. 
Bake in a quick oven, in a thin sheet. 

Hampstead Chicken. — Cut cold boiled 
fowl into pieces as you would joint up a 
chicken to stew. Heat it thoroughly in a 
steamer. Have ready one cupful of nice 
drawn butter, hot, and pour it over the 
fowl after you have arranged it on a platter. 
Sprinkle over it a few capers, and put 
around the edge of the platter thin shavings 
of bacon, fried very crisp. 



66 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



Salmis. — Cut cold chicken into small 
bits, and heat in enough drawn butter to 
make it quite moist ; season with pepper 
and celery salt ; when hot, take from the fire 
and add one Qgg, well beaten, and one tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice ; cover the bottom 
of a buttered dish with fine bread-crumbs, 
and pour in the chicken, sift crumbs over 
the top, stick bits of butter over it, and bake 
until brow^n. The gravy of the chicken can 
be substituted for the drawn butter, if pre- 
ferred. 

White Mountain Chicken. — Cut cold 
boiled chicken into small bits, sprinkle 
with pepper and salt. Allow one cup of 
nice drawn butter, to two cups of meat. 
Heat all together. Have ready some nice 



mashed potato, hot, and form into little 
mounds by pressing it into an egg-cup ; 
arrange these mounds around the edge of a 
small platter and pour the hot chicken in 
the centre. 

Nonpareil. — Cut or tear cold chicken 
into inch bits, and mix one cupful of the 
meat with two cupfuls of cold boiled pota- 
toes cut in cubes ; sprinkle with pepper and 
salt, and put into a small pan in which you 
have melted a piece of butter as large as a 
walnut ; pour in what remains of your 
gravy, and add water until you can see it 
Boil all half an hour. 

Fried Chicken. — Cold roast or boiled 
fowl can be dipped in batter and fried. 



POULTRY. 



tj 



Make the batter of four heaping table- 
spoonfuls of flour, one ^^'gy half a cupful 
of water, and two tablespoonfuls of salad 
oil. Add the water to the flour gradually, 
stirring it smooth ; then beat in the yolk of 
the ^^g with half a teaspoonful of salt, and 
just before you want' your batter, stir in 
the beaten white. Some flour may require 
a little more water. Dip each piece of 
chicken in the batter, and fry a light brown. 

Chicken Croquettes. — One cupful of 
finely chopped chicken ; one cupful of sifted 
bread-crumbs ; one teaspoonful of salt ; 
one-fourth a teaspoonful of white pepper ; 
half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley ; half 
a cupful of stock, made by boiling the bones 
of the chicken. Heat all together and then 



stir in one beaten ^^g. When cold, form 
into croquettes, roll each in fine crumbs, 
then in beaten ^g'gy and then in crumbs 
again. Lift carefully into the frying-bas- 
ket and plunge it into very hot lard for a 
minute or two. 

Rice and Chicken Croquettes. — One 

cupful of cold chicken, chopped fine, and 
seasoned with salt and pepper ; one cupful 
of boiled rice. Heat both together in a 
tea-ketttle-pail, or double boiler, adding a 
little milk, if the mixture seems dry. When 
hot, stir in one ^%%y beaten light, and when 
it is thoroughly mixed, remove from the 
fire. When the mixture is cold, form it 
into croquettes, roll in ^^'g and fine crumbs, 
and fry in very hot lard. 



68 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



Chicken and Oyster Croquettes. — One 

cup of cold chicken, chopped very fine ; 
one saucerful of cold escalloped oysters, 
also chopped ; half a cup of sifted bread- 
crumbs ; pepper, salt, and a iittle mace ; 
one egg beaten light. Add a little broth, 
made of the bones of the chicken boiled in 
just water enough to cover them. Have 
the mixture as soft as you can handle it. 
It is impossible to give exact measurements 
for this, as a skilled hand can have the 
mixture much softer than a beginner can 
manage. Form into long rolls as large as a 
man's finger, roll in sifted crumbs, and fry in 
verv hot lard. Serve with slices of lemon. 



teaspoonful of gelatine in a little cold water 
and stir into the hot stock when vou strain 
out the bones ; add pepper and salt, and let 
the whole boil down to one coffee-cupful. 
Chop very fine an equal quantity of cold 
chicken and put into the hot stock, with a 
teaspoonful of grated onion and a dust of 
nutmeg, with a little chopped parsley. Pour 
the mixture on a platter and let it cool It 
should be as hard as wine jelly. The next 
day cut in squares as large as a yeast cake, 
flour each piece and dip in batter made of 
flour and milk, as thick as the thickest 
cream. Plunge at once in smoking hot 
lard and fry a light brown. Serve at once. 



Wonders. — Make a strong stock of the \ Giblet Pie.— Line a small dish with puff 
bones of cold chicken. Soak one heaping \ paste, put inside a few pieces of stale bread 



POULTRY. 



69 



to prevent the crust from falling in ; cover 
with pastry and bake in a quick oven. 
When the crust is done, lift off the cover 
very carefully, remove the pieces of bread, 
s^nd pour in the filling, which has been pre- 
pared as follows. Boil and mince the gib- 
lets of turkey, chicken, or both. Heat one 
cupful of rich milk, with a blade of mace and 
a small bit of onion in it. Thicken, by stir- 
ring in one teaspoonful of flour wet with cold 
milk. Add the giblets, seasoned with salt 
and pepper. Pour it into the dish and re- 
place the top. For directions for making 
pastry, see page s;^. 

Minced Fowl. — Cut the meat from the 
bones, and put them on to boil with the bits 
of skin which are left, and an onion, in 



enough water to cover them. When they 
have boiled until you have a cupful of 
strong stock, strain and pour in a cup of 
hot milk, with pepper and salt ; then stir in 
two cupfuls of minced fowl, and serve with 
chopped parsley sprinkled over it. 

Devilled Turkey. — Cut gashes in the 
legs and upper joints of cold roast turkey^ 
and rub in pepper, salt, and mustard, then 
heat them through on gridiron. 

Montclair Scallop. — Pick the small bits 
of meat from a cold turkey, and boil the 
bones in water enough to cover them, with a 
piece of onion as large as half a dollar ; but- 
ter a small pudding-dish, and sprinkle the 
bottom with fine bread-crumbs ; put in next 



^o 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



a layer of the turkey seasoned with salt and 
pepper, then a thin layer of crumbs, and so 
on, until the dish is full. Strain the water 
in which the bones have been boiled, and 
put into it two tablespoonfuls of cream, 
pour this over the scallop, put a few very 
small bits of butter on the crumbs which 
cover the top and bake until brown. 

Turkey B£chamel. — Half a cupful of 
very strong stock ; one cup of milk heated 
separately with half a bay leaf and a slice 
of onion in it. Put the milk and stock to- 
gether, and thicken with two teaspoonfuls of 
corn-starch wet up with half a cup of cold 
water. Boil up once, and then stir into it one 
heaping cupful of cold turkey cut up into 
dice ; pepper, salt, and a very little mace. 



Woodlawn Croquettes. — Boil one set 

of calves* brains, tied in a cloth, until they 
are soft ; chop, and add one coffee cupful 
of cold turkey or chicken, and one-fourth 
cupful of beef suet, both chopped as fine a^ 
possible. Season with one-fourth teaspoon- 
ful of pepper, one teaspoonful and a half 
of salt, half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 
one-fourth teaspoonful of powdered thyme, 
a little grated lemon peel, and about a tea- 
spoonful of the juice, and a pinch of nut- 
meg. Heat the meat, and moisten with a 
little stock, and one ^^^, When cold form 
into croquettes, roll in ^^^ and sifted 
crumbs. Fry in a frying basket, plunged 
in a kettle of very hot lard. 

Turkey Loaf.— Put the remains of a 



POULTRY. 



71 



boiled turkey in just enough water to cover 
it. Boil until you can slip the meat from 
the bones. Take out the meat, leaving the 
skin and bones to boil longer. Cut the 
meat in pieces as large as a quarter of a 
dollar, and put in a baking tin. The tin 
should be nearly full of the meat. Sprinkle 
in pepper and salt. Take out the bones and 
skin, and thicken the broth with a teaspoon- 
ful of flour and the same of butter, rubbed 
together. Pour this over the meat until all 
the interstices are filled. Put another bak- 
ing tin of the same size inside the one 
which contains the meat. Put two or 
three flat-irons in this for a weight. The 
next day turn out the loaf. 

Turkey Soufflj. — Boil one cupful of 



rich milk with half a small onion and a 
blade of mace. When it boils, stir in a 
thickening made of one even teaspoon- 
ful of corn-starch wet with cold milk. 
Cook until it thickens slightly, and then 
stir in one cupful of cold turkey minced 
fine, and add the yolk of an egg. As 
soon as it is well mixed, take from the 
fire. Add celery salt and pepper to taste. 
When cool stir in the beaten white of the 
egg. Pour into a buttered dish and bake 
from fifteen to twenty minutes. Serve at 
once. 

Turkey k la Cr6me. — Heat one cupful 
of milk, and stir into it a thickening made by 
rubbing together one teaspoonful of flour 
and one teaspoonful of butter ; when it is 



72 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



perfectly smooth, put into it the white meat 
of cold roast turkey, leaving out the skin 
and the dressing. Then season with half 
a teaspoonful of salt, and half a teaspoon- 
ful of white pepper, and a little nutmeg. 
When the meat is hot, stir in half a 
cupful of cream, beaten light, and serve at 
once. 

Turkey Hash.— Cut up what remains of 
cold turkey into small pieces, and to two 
cupfuls of meat allow one cupful of hot 
water, and a piece of butter as large as a 
walnut. Heat thoroughly with one small 
cupful of the stuffing, and pour on slices of 
toasted bread, buttered slightly. 

Warmed Goose. — Cut the meat into 



nice slices, and put two together with a little 
of the stuffing spread between, so as to form 
a sort of sandwich ; put a very little gravy 
in a frying-pan, and lay the double slices in 
carefully; cover, and let it heat thoroughly ; 
then lift out the meat with a knife and put 
on the platter, pour in the rest of your 
gravy, and let it boil up, and then turn over 
the meat. 

Devilled Goose. — Take the legs and 
wings of cold roast goose, broil them on a 
gridiron until they are heated through. 
Have ready a little butter, pepper and salt, 
one tablespoonful of mixed mustard, and 
one tablespoonful of sharp vinegar, mixed 
together. Turn this over the goose and 
serve very hot. 



r 



POULTRY. 



73 



Duck Pie. — Cut the meat from cold 
roast ducks. Put the bones and the stuffing 
into enough cold water to cover them, and 
let it boil. Put the meat into a deep dish, 



pour on enough of the stock which you 
have made by boiling the bones, to moisten 
it. Cover with pastry and bake until it is 
a light brown. 



\ 



Potatoes. 



Potatoes- 



Lyonnaise Potatoes. — Put two or three 
slices of fat ham into a frying-pan, and 
when hot and brown, slice in, half an onion. 
When both are fried take out the ham and 
onion, and put into the fat which remains 
two cupf uls of cold boiled potatoes, cut into 
small pieces, and seasoned with pepper, 
salt, and a little mustard. Fry a delicate 
brown, stirring frequently. 

Fried Potatoes. — Put two or three slices 
of salt pork into a fr\ing-pan, and when it 
is fried a very light brown on both sides, 
cut it up in small bits and add two cupfuls 



of cold boiled or baked potatoes, cut into 
small bits. Let all fry together, stirring 
often, until the potatoes are brown. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes.— Cut cold sweet 
potatoes, either baked or boiled, into slices. 
Heat a very little dripping in a frying-pan, 
and when it is hot lay in the potatoes, and 
brown nicely on both sides. 

Champlain Potatoes. — Cut cold boiled 
potatoes in rather thick slices. Put in a 
saucepan a piece of butter as large as half 
^n egg, and about one teaspoonful of flour. 



78 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



When it is well mixed, add gradually 
one cupful of stock or water ; when this 
boils, put in the sliced potatoes, sprinkled 
with pepper and salt. Let all stew to- 
gether a few minutes ; then take from the 
fire, and when it has stopped boiling, add 
the yolk of an egg, beaten up with one 
teaspoonful of lemon juice and a little cold 
water. Stir for a few moments in a warm 
place, and then pour on a hot dish, sprinkle 
a little chopped parsley over the top, and 
serve. 

Potato Dumplings. — Form cold mashed 
potato into little mounds by pressing it 
into a small teacup. Place these on a but- 
tered tin sheet. Put a bit of butter on the 
top of each and bake an hour. 



Toasted Potatoes. — Cut cold boiled po- 
tatoes in rather thick slices, brush each 
slice over with a little melted butter, roll in 
sifted bread-crumbs, in which you have 
mixed enough pepper and salt to season 
them ;' toast over coals as you would bread. 
Some will think it an improvement to 
sprinkle a little chopped parsley on each 
piece before serving. 

Breakfast Potatoes. — Put a piece of 
butter as large as a butternut into a frying- 
pan, and when hot, slice in, a quarter of an 
onion ; when it is brown, add two cupfuls 
of cold boiled or baked potatoes, cut in thin 
slices ; stir in the hot butter until the pota- 
toes are nicelv browned. Season with salt 
and a little dry mustard. 



POTATOES. 



79 



Sliced Potato. — Cut cold boiled or 
baked potatoes into slices lengthwise, and 
brown in a little butter, or nice beef-drip- 
ping. When they are fried on both sides, 
sprinkle with salt and a little pepper, and 
serve on a hot platter. 

Roman Potatoes. — Rub mashed pota- 
toes through a fine colander, add salt, a 
little grated Parmesan cheese, and yolks of 
eggs, allowing one yolk to every cupful of 
potato. Form into little rolls like cro- 
quettes, flour them, and fry in very hot 
lard. 

Minced Potatoes. — Chop cold boiled 
potatoes, and fry in nice beef-dripping, 
stirring until the whole is a good brown. 



Sprinkle in salt to * your taste, as they are 
cooking. 

Stewed Potatoes. — Cut cold boiled or 
baked potatoes into mouthfuls, and boil in 
milk enough to cover them. When the 
milk has boiled away, so that the mixture 
is not too thin, add salt and pepper, and 
one teaspoonful of chopped parsley. If 
your milk is not rich and good, it will be 
necessary to add a little butter. 

Potato Balls. — Mash six boiled pota- 
toes, and add enough cream to make them 
a little soft. If you have no cream you can 
use milk. Half a cup of grated ham (the 
bits which are too dr}' to use in other 
ways, can be grated, and kept in a cold 



8o 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



place for some time) ; one teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley, and half a teaspoonful of 
pepper, and the same of salt. Mix all well 
together, and stir in the yolks of two eggs 
— the whites can be kept for frosting or 
meringues. Form into little balls and fry a 
light brown. Serve with a good brown gravy. 

Golden Mount Potato. — Add to two 
cupfuls of cold mashed potato, enough hot 
milk to make it soft enough to form into a 
shape. Pile on a buttered tin sheet, and 
smooth with the blade of a knife, into a 
pyramid ; cover with the yolk of an egg, 
and sift over it fine crumbs. Brown in a 
hot oven. 

Browned Potatoes. — Cut cold mashed 



potato into slices, and place on a buttered 
pan. Put a bit of butter on each slice, and 
bake until brown, in a hot oven. 

Snowy Potato. — Two cups of cold 
mashed potato and two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, beaten to a cream. Add the whites 
of two eggs, beaten light, one cup of milk, 
and one teaspoonful of salt. Beat all to* 
gether, and brown in the oven. 

Potatoes in Crcam.--Slice cold boiled 
potatoes very thin, put in a dish on top of 
the stove, with a very little water ; sprinkle 
on salt, and, when the potatoes are warmed 
through, pour over them enough sweet 
cream to just cover them, and let it re- 
main on the stove until it boils. 



r 



POTATOES. 



8i 



Scalloped Potatoes. — Butter a bright 
tin basin and put in a layer of cold potatoes 
cut in slices ; season with pepper and salt, 
and small bits of butter, dredge lightly with 
flour. Fill the dish with these layers, adding 



a hard-boiled egg, cut in slices, and cover 
the top half an inch deep with fine cracker- 
crumbs. Pour over it one and one-fourth 
cup of sweet milk, or cream if you have 
it Bake in a moderate oven half an hour. 



\ 



Sundries. 



Sundries, 



Creamed Cauliflower. — Steam what re- 
mains of your cold boiled cauliflower, until 
it is hot, and pour over it a sauce made as 
follows. Boil one cup of thin cream, and 
thicken it by adding one teaspoonful of 
flour, stirred smooth in a little cold cream ; 
let the mixture boil up, stirring it con- 
stantly ; add a pinch of salt, a little pepper, 
and a small quantity of nutmeg. This is a 
Dutch dish, and very delicious. 

Asparagus Salad. — Arrange what re- 
mains of cold boiled asparagus in a glass 
dish, and pour over it salad dressing. 



Cauliflower au Fromage. — If you have 
cold boiled cauliflower, put it in a bake 
dish, and turn over it enough drawn butter 
to moisten it ; grate a little cheese over the 
top, cover with sifted bread-crumbs, put 
very small bits of butter on top, and bake 
until it is light brown. 

Simple Asparagus Omelette. — Put a 
piece of butter as large as a butter-nut, into 
a frying-pan, and when it is melted, pour in 
three eggs which have been beaten just 
enough to mix the yolks with the whites ; 
stir constantly, and when the mixture thick- 



86 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



ens, take from the fire, season with salt 
and pepper, and stir into it what you have 
left of cold boiled asparagus, cut into small 
bits. 



Cabbage Jelly. — Drain cold boiled cab- 
bage perfectly dry, then chop fine, add but- 
ter, pepper, and salt to taste. Press the 
whole closely into a small pudding-dish, 
and bake an hour. 

Stewed Corn. — Cut cold sweet - corn 
from the cobs, scraping off as much as you 
can, as the best part is that which adheres 
to the cob. Heat as much milk as you 
have corn, stirring in a small bit of butter, 
and enough pepper and salt to season it ; 
stir in the corn, and let it boil a few minutes. 



If you have any cold boiled beans, mix with 
the corn and call it " Succotash." 

Asparagus aux CEufs.— When you cook 
asparagus, you have always some stalks 
from which the ends have been broken, and 
other little bits, which are too small to serve 
on toast. Take these out of the water with 
a skimmer, arrange them on a platter which 
can be put in the oven, and break carefully 
over the top enough eggs to conceal the 
asparagus ; sprinkle a little pepper and salt 
on each egg, and put in the oven until the 
white is set. 

Celery i, la Poulette. — Cut celery into 
small bits and boil in water until it is per- 
fectly tender. Boil one cupful of milk and 



SUNDRIES. 



87 



Stir into it a thickening made by stirring 
one teaspoonful of corn-starch in one-third 
of a cup of cold milk. When the sauce is 
smooth and creamy, drain the water from 
the celery, and pour the cream over it. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper. 

Bread Omelette. — Put into a stewpan 
two tablespoonfuls of dry bread-crumbs, 
and three tablespoonfuls of rich milk. 
Sprinkle in one teaspoonful of salt, and 
half a teaspoonful of pepper. Stir until the 
crumbs have absorbed all the milk ; take 
from the fire, and let the mixture cool, and 
then beat it up with six eggs, and fry like 
other omelettes. 

Berlin Relish. — Two cupfuls of cold 



mashed potato. Mix into this one cupful 
of good milk and one beaten egg. Add one 
cupful of finely chopped cold ham. Mix 
well and bake in a buttered dish. When it 
is just beginning to brown, sprinkle on the 
top two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, 
and return the dish to the oven for a few 
minutes. 

Ham Turnover. — A very nice breakfast 
dish can be made of cold boiled ham which 
cannot be cut into slices. Chop the ham 
fine, and warm in butter. Beat two or 
more eggs, according to quantity of ham, 
and pour in a buttered pan on the stove. 
When it is brown on one side spread the 
ham on half of it, and turn the other half 
over it. 



88 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



Stewed Tripe. — Cut cold fried or 
broiled tripe into inch bits, dredge lightly 
with flour, and heat in a gravy made of one 
cupful of hot water and a piece of butter 
as large as a walnut. Season with pepper 
and salt. 

Ham Toast. — Chop cold boiled ham as 
fine as you can. To one cupful allow a bit 
of butter as large as a filbert, and one-half 
teaspoonful of mustard. Heat all together, 
have ready slices of toast, well buttered and 
arranged on a platter ; put a spoonful of 
the ham on each slice, spreading it evenly 
over the piece of toast. Serve hot. 

Vegetable Hash. — Chop fine cold boiled 
turnips, parsnips, beets, and potatoes, allow- S 



ing twice as much potato as you have of 
either of the others. Season with butter, 
pepper, and salt. Warm in a buttered fry- 
ing-pan. It is good without any meat, but 
a very little chopped boiled pork can be 
added if preferred. 

Warmed Vegetables. — All the vegeta- 
bles left from a boiled dinner are nice 
warmed for the next day. Slices of turnip 
and parsnip are good browned in a little 
butter. The boiled cabbage is especially 
good fried in butter. 

Pastin&ca. — Cut cold boiled carrots into 
thin slices, and pour over them a cream 
sauce made as for ** Celery i, la Poulette," 
on page 86, 



SUNDRIES. 



89 



Pickled Beets. — Cut cold boiled beets 
into slices, and let them stand in vinegar 
over night They are nice as a dish by 
themselves, and are also very useful for 
garnishing salads. Some persons consider 
cold boiled beets, finely chopped, an accep- 
table addition to Corned Beef Hash. 

Beet Salad. — Cut into slices cold baked 
or boiled beets, and put in a salad-bowl 
with a head of crisp celery cut in bits. 
Just before serving, pour over it a dressing 
made as follows : 

Dressing. — Break into a deep plate one 
egg, and mix it with one teaspoonful of salt, 
one and a half teaspoonful of sugar, one 
teaspoonful of white pepper, and a very lit- 



tle Cayenne. Add slowly three tablespoon- 
fuls of nice salad oil, stirring constantly. 
When the oil is thoroughly mixed, put in 
one tablespoonfui of sweet cream, and one 
tablespoonful of lemon-juice, and lastly, one 
tablespoonfui of white vinegar. 

Cheese Omelette. — Grate two table- 
spoonfuls of hard cheese, and mix with 
half a cup of milk, stir in the yolks of two 
eggs, and a little pepper and salt, then add 
the beaten whites, a spoonful at a time. 
Pour into a buttered dish, and bake until it 
is brown. Serve at once, as it falls rapidly. 

Venetian Macaroni. — Take two cupfuls 
of cold boiled macaroni and cut it into short 
pieces. Heat it gently, and sprinkle in 



90 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



two-thirds of a cupful of chopped or grated 
hakn. Heap on a hot platter, and sprinkle 
a little grated cheese over it. 

Cottage ' Cheese. — In summer, when 
milk sours rapidly, it can be made into very 
delicate little cheeses. Heat tlic loppered 
milk in a pan on the stove, until a small 
quantity, pressed in the hand, will retain its 
shape, but be careful not to let it scald. 
Strain off ail the whey through a cloth, 
pressing it gently, put thecurd thus obtained 
into a dish, and mould with the hand, after 
adding a little salt, and a few spoonfuls of 
sweet cream, if you have it, otherwise a lit- 
tle butter, until it will readily take the form 
of a mould. If you have not a suitable 
mould, form it in a cup. 



Liver Picard. — Cut cold fried or broiled 
liver into mouthfuls, removing all the 
stringy pieces ; put into a hot saucepan 
with a little butter ; dredge on one table- 
spoonful of flour, with pepper and salt to 
taste ; pour in one cup of boiling water, and 
stir until the flour is cooked. 

Tongue on Toast. — Chop bits of cold salt 
tongue, and to one cupful of the meat, meas- 
ured after mincing, allow one tablespoonful 
of cream, or good milk. Heat, and stir in 
one eggy well beaten. Have ready slices of 
buttered toast, and put a little of the mixt- 
ure on each slice. 

Risotti. — Put a piece of butter as large 
as half an egg, into a frying-pan, and when 



SUNDRIES. 



91 



hot slice in half an onion ; when it is brown 
take it out, and throw it into your soup 
kettle. Put into the butter in which the 
onions have fried, one cupful of boiled rice, 
stir until the butter is absorbed, and then 
add one cupful of any kind of cold soup, 
which you may happen to have, and boil a 
little while, gently, until the rice has taken 
up most of the soup, and then stir in half a 
cupful of grated ham, or the same quantity 
of cold tongue chopped fine. Pour on a 
hot platter, and serv-e grated cheese with it. 



and add gradually four tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar. Arrange slices of cold roast beef 
on a platter, and put a spoonful of sauce on 
each slice. 

Copeland's Sauce for Cold Game. — 

Pound in a mortar the yolks of two hard- 
boiled eggs, with a tablespoonful of vinegar, 
and a little anchovy paste, and a teaspoon- 
ful of dry mustard. When it is smooth add 
slowly a tablespoonful of fine salad oil, and 
a tablespoonful of vinegar. 



Horseradish Sauce and Beef. — Two 
tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish, one 
teaspoon of salt, one teaspoon of mustard 
in powder. Mix well, and then add two 
tablespoonfuls of cream ; stir thoroughly 



Rice Croquettes. — If you have cold 
boiled rice left from dinner, heat it over, 
adding a little milk, unless the rice was 
very moist, and to every cupful of rice 
allow one egg, well beaten, two teaspoon- 



92 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



fuls of sugar, and a piece of butter as large 
as a hickory nut. Cook only a moment 
after the egg is in. When cold, form into 
croquettes, roll in egg and crumbs, and fry. 

Tomato Scallop. — Cold stewed tomato 
can be scalloped, like raw tomato, by ar- 
ranging it in an earthen dish, with alternate 
layers of fine bread-crumbs. Season with 
pepper and salt, and put bits of butter on 
top before baking. 

Creamed Eggs. — If you have cold boiled 
eggs left from breakfast, return them to the 
fire, and boil until they are hard. Prepare 
a sauce, by boiling one cupful of nice milk 
with a piece of butter as large as a nutmeg. 
When it boils, stir in one heaping teaspoon- 



ful of flour, wet with a little cold milk. Sea- 
son with pepper and salt. It is much nicer 
to use cream, instead of milk, and omit the 
butter. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in slices, 
and arrange on a small platter, pour the hot 
cream sauce over them, and serve at once. 

Squash Pies. — Winter Squash is almost 
the only vegetable which cannot be used in 
soup, but there are many other ways of 
disposing of what is left. The best way of 
all, is, to make it into pies. Line a deep 
pie-plate with nice pastry. Sift the cold 
boiled squash, and for every cupful, allow 
one cupful of milk, one egg, one-third of a 
cupful of sugar, two drops of extract of 
rose, and a little ginger. If you can put in 
a few spoonfuls of sweet cream it wnll be a 



SUNDRIES. 



93 



great improrement Heat the milk and 
squash together, and add the egg after you 
take the other ingredients from the fire. 
Pour into the pastry and bake in a moder- 
ate oven until it is set. 

Zephyrs. — Heat two cupfuls of boiled 
hominy, adding sufficient water to make it 
thin enough to pour. Add a piece of but- 
ter as large as an English walnut, and a lit- 
tle salt. Have ready iron gem-pans, heated 
very hot and well buttered. Fill these with 
the hominy, and bake half an hour in a 
hot oven. 

Brevris. — Take the crusts which you 
have left from a loaf of Boston brown bread, 
break them in small pieces, and pour over 



them one cupful of boiling water. Boil 
until you have a soft mush, stirring fre- 
quently, and adding more water if neces- 
sary. When it is soft, add one cupful of 
sweet milk, and a piece of butter as large as 
an eggy and let it boil again, until it is as 
thick as boiled hominy. This is not a hand- 
some dish, but is delicious, if eaten with 
nice maple syrup. 

Cake Fritters. — Cut any kind of stale 
plain cake in neat slices, drop each slice in 
very hot lard, and fry until they are a deli- 
cate brown. Place on a platter with a tea- 
spoonful of sour jelly on each slice. Serve 
hot for dessert. 

Fried Toast. — Beat two eggs light, and 



94 



MRS. GILPIN S FRUGALITIES. 



Stir in one cupful of sweet milk. Dip in 
this slices of stale bread, and fry them 
brown on. a griddle. This is a nice break- 
fast dish. 

Aunt Elizabeth's Turnovers. — Bits of 
jelly are often left which are too small to 
put on the table again. These can be made 
into delicious little turnovers, which are 
nice for dessert or for tea. Roll puff paste, 
made as directed for " Beef Pie," very thin, 
cut with a jagging iron into squares as 



large as an ordinary correspondence card, 
put a teaspoonful of jelly at one end, wet 
the edges with the finger dipped in ice- 
water, fold the other end over the jelly, 
pressing the edges firmly together ; wet the 
top slightly, and sprinkle with granulated 
sugar ; prick each turnover with a fork, and 
bake in a quick oven. The pastry will cook 
before the jelly has time to melt Any kind 
of fruit jelly will do, but crab-apple is usu- 
ally preferred. Unless the jelly is firm and 
hard the turnovers will be sticky. 



Materials. 



Materials, 



IN providing for a family it is well to 
have some general idea of the quantities 
required, and of the proportional expense 
of different articles. An ignorance of this 
often gives rise to petty economies, which 
amount to little, and which do not make up 
for unnoticed extravagance in other things. 
The sum which is spent for food in a 
family is usually divided somewhat in this 
way : One-tenth of all is spent for butter, 
one-tenth for beef, one-tenth for other 
kinds of meat. Flour of all sorts will 
hardly amount to another tenth. These 
are the great staples. The remaining 



three-fifths is divided among many different 
articles, the two most expensive of which 
are sugar and milk. In some families each 
of these will require another tenth. 

It is difficult to estimate exactly the quan- 
tity of food required. A fair average will 
allow one barrel of flour a year, and one 
pound of butter a week, to each person. 
The consumption of other articles varies 
so much with individual taste, that it is 
impossible to make any general statement 
regarding them. A list is given of some 
materials used in the foregoing receipts, 
which it is well to keep on hand. When 



98 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



one has an abundance of room, it is better 
to buy many articles by the quantity, as 
the cost is less. If one expects to have sat- 
isfactory results in cooking, the materials 
must all be good of the kind. 

Anchovies. — These are used with many 
kinds of salad, and for flavoring croquettes, 
etc. Extract of anchovy or anchovy paste 
can be used if preferred. 

Barley. — Pearled barley is excellent in 
soups, and is sometimes served with beef. 
It requires soaking for several hours before 
using. 

Bay Leaves. — These can be procured at 
a good grocery, or at a German druggist's. 



The leaves which come on the top of a box 
of figs are usually bay leaves. They have 
a very strong flavor, and as more than one 
is never used at a time, it is not necessary 
to have a large quantity at once. 

Browned Flour. — This should be kept 
on hand to use for thickening. Prepare by 
putting a little dry flour in the oven on a 
dripping pan. Stir it occasionally, and 
cook until it is all a light brown. 

Caramel. — This is indispensable for col- 
oring soups, gravies, and some jellies. It 
can be easily made by melting one cupful 
of granulated sugar in an iron saucepan, 
and stirring it until it is a very dark brown. 
Then add very gradually one cupful of cold 



MATERIALS. 



99 



water, stirring constantly. Let the sugar 
and water boil together until it seems to be 
a little thick. The change in the manner 
of boiling will indicate this. When cold it 
should be about the consistency of molasses. 
As soon as it is a little cool, put in a wide- 
mouthed bottle. It will keep indefinitely. 

Celery. — Celery tops can be dried and 
pulverized, to use for seasoning, or the seed 
can be procured, as it has the same flavor 
as the stalk. Celery salt can be bought of 
any grocer, and is more convenient than 
either. 

Cheese* — Grated cheese is an excellent 
flavor for many dishes. Parmesan cheese 
can be bought in bottles ready for use, but 



some prefer to use the dry bits which are 
left from other varieties of cheese. 

Corn Starch. — This is very useful for 
making thickenings. It is more convenient 
than fiour, as it is much finer. 

Crumbs. — There is no necessity of wast* 
ing a crumb of bread. When the loaf is 
cut at the table for breakfast and tea, there 
will not be many dry slices left Never al- 
low an accumulation of pieces. Examine 
the bread jar every day, and put all the bits 
of bread or cold biscuit or toast on a tin in 
the drying oven. No matter if they remain 
there for some time. When they are per- 
fectly dry and crisp they can be rolled and 
sifted, and then utilized in a variety of ways. 



i_ 



lOO 



MRS. GILPIN'S FRUGALITIES. 



As long as they are perfectly dry, they will 
keep, but anywhere outside the drying oven 
they are liable to contract moisture and 
spoil, so it is better not to have much on 
hand at once. Many of the receipts in this 
book require bread-crumbs, and in "The 
Book of Forty Puddings" will be found 
several, where crumbs of bread or cake are 
used. 

Curry Pov^dcr. — India curry powder 
is the best, and can be bought in small 
bottles. 

Extracts. — These can be procured any- 
where, and those of any standard maker are 
good. Extracts of orange and lemon can 
be easily made, by filling a bottle with very 



thin shavings of the peel, being careful to 
take off only the yellow part, as the white is 
bitter. Pour in alcohol which has been re- 
duced with water until a piece of tallow will 
float in it. Cork tightly, and you will have 
pure and inexpensive extracts. 

Flavoring. — Small tin boxes can be 
bought containing small squares, each 
wrapped in waxed paper, for flavoring and 
coloring soups. They are convenient to 
supply the place of caramel, but must be 
kept in a cool place, as they are liable to be- 
come stickv. 

Flour. — It is necessar}^, if you use what 
is called "patent process flour" for bread 
and rolls, to have another kind for pastry 



MATERIALS. 



lOl 



and cake, as that kind of flour is not as 
good for anything in which butter is used. 

Garlic. — This has a flavor like onions, but 
more delicate. A braid of garlic can be 
bought at almost any market for a few cents, 
and w^ill keep a long time. The roots di- 
vide into little sections, each of which is 
called " a clove of garlic." 

Herrings. — A few strips of smoked her- 
ring are considered by French cooks an 
agreeable addition to salads. They can be 
used as a substitute for anchovies, as they 
have much the same flavor. 

Herbs. — Persons who can grow their 
own herbs are sure to have the best and 



purest, but all kinds can be procured dried 
and pulverized The most important are 
sage, thyme, and marjoram. 

Ketchups.— Mushroom and tomato ketch- 
ups are useful for seasoning gravies, and to 
serve with cold meats. 

Macaroni. — Vermicelli, and the little 
figures which come in packages for soups 
under the name of " Italian Paste," are all 
different forms of the same substance, and 
are in constant use for soups, etc. 

Parsley. — This is easily raised from the 
seed, and can be kept in a flower-pot all 
winter if one pleases. The leaves can be 
dried to use for seasoning, but for garnish- 



102 



MRS. GILPIN S TRUGALITIES. 



ing disheSy of course, the fresh sprigs are re- < whole cloves and blades of mace are oftca 
quired. < needed. 



Pepper. — In addition to the ordinary 
ground black pepper, it is well to have white 
pepper, cayenne, and whole pepj)er-corns. 
A few red peppers are also useful, but they 
must be used with caution, as, when dry, 
they are exceedingly strong. 

Sauces. — The most common are Worces- 
tershire, Leicestershire, Halford's, and Har- 
vey's. The three last are much alike. Wor- 
cestershire is hotter than any of the others. 

Spices. — Clove, cinnamon, mace, ginger, 
allspice, nutmeg, should all be kept on hand. 
Besides the ordinary ground spices, a few 



Sugar. — There is no economy in pur- 
chasing brown sugar. The additional mois- 
ture which it contains more than makes up 
for the difference in price, but for some 
things, such as dark cake and mince pies, 
many cooks prefer it Granulated sugar is 
the purest and best for ordinary uses, but 
pulverized is needed for meringues and 
frosting. 

Tapioca. — Flake and • pearled tapioca 
have the same taste, but the latter is best 
for thickening soups, and for many kinds 
of puddings. It should always be soaked 
before using. 



The Cottage Kitchen. 



2slJti]W BOOBZ DB"3r :MLA.IiIOIT T=r A t^t, a Tsn-i 



One Volume, 12mo, $1.00. 



This book has a special mission. It is a practical cookery-book for people of slender 
meanSf especially for young people beginning housekeeping. Its aim is to advise young house- 
keepers how to serve wholesome and palatable fare tastefully^ at the loivest cost compatible with 
American prices current and the demands of healthful bodies. It shows that frugality is not 
necessarily coarseness^ nor economy meanness. And while there is not an expensive receipt in 
the collection there is not one^ the product of which might fwt well find a place on any table. 

Scattered through the book there cu^e a number of familiar and helpful ^^talks^^ cheerful^ 
chatty and practical^ which furnish much advice and information of a general nature^ just 
such as the young and inexperienced housekeeper needs and such as Marion Harland *s 
sound common sense and large experience enable her to give. 



CHARLES SORIBNER'S, SONS. Publishers. 

7^S and 74Ii Brotiidway, New York. 



Marion Harland^s Cookery Books, 

Common Sense in the Household. 

A Manual of Practical Housewifery. 



New Edition. One Volume, 12mo, Cloth. Price, $1.76. 

KiTCHBN Edition* in Oil-Ci.oth Covers, at same price. 



The popularity of this book hms increased steadily for the last ten years, and the sale has reached the extra- 
ordinary number of over zoo,ooo copies. 

With the new edition of '* Common Sense/' the Publishers issue, in uniform style: 

THE DINNER YEAR BOOK. 

One Volume, i2mo, 790 pp., cloth, or " Kitchen Edition/* without colored plates, $1.75. 



BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON, AND TEA. 

One Volume, lamo, cloth, or " Kitchen Edition," $2.75. 



OHARLES SORIBNER'S SONS. PublisheM, 

7^^ a«Mi 74tf Broadwayt New York, 



