
':'.; 



& r 







+ Oup Bailv Bpead; 



OR 



gemmon §>eFise« 



-i« 



■M-H"— I 



,.-► 



Q^ogI\ Bo©I^. 




i:|: r^v "I 



T 



« 



n- 



..v.v.vav.v.v.-.vXv.v.v.v.v.v.v.v v.v'.v.v.v wv.v v.-.v. ' ..v v.v.w v.v.-.v.v.v.v.v.v.v.v.v.-.v.v.v.v.v.-.v v ■.•.•.■.•.•.■.•.•.■.■.'.■.•.•.■. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS, 

<F^ 

mpt# Cujnjrigfjt 1)$ 



Shelf. 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



0UR 9AILY BREAD; 



OR, 



COMMON SENSE COOK BOOK. 



Compi'ed and Published by the Ladies' Aid Society 
of the 



SECOND UNIVERSALIS! CHURCH, 

CHICfiED, 



^1 



L.OOM.TH WtU. 10 Trtt V\|MS Of tttR V\OV)SittO\_0. J-.UO tkTiTH MOT TWt SfttSkO 










1 I \.%~v 



CHICAGO : 

JAMESON & MORSE, PRINTERS. 

1883. 






COPYRIGHT BT THE LADIES' AID SOCIETY OF THE SECOND UNIVERSALIS! 
CHURCH, CHICAGO, 1883. 



PREFACE 



fHIS little book is designed to be what its title imports, a 
common sense guide in the preparation of our daily food. 
Since the table occupies so prominent a place in the necessities of 
life, and colleges for instruction in cooking are being established, 
it is eminently proper that every woman, and especially house- 
keepers, should strive to excel in the cuisine mysteries ; for 
cooking is a science, as well as an art, and ought to be ranked 
with printing, engineering and sculpture, and the like profes- 
sions, that require apprenticeship and diligent study. What is 
worth doing at all is worth doing well. We commend the motto : 
"Eat to live, rather than live to eat." 



SDUPS, 



ADVICE IN MAKING SOUP STOCK. 

Take a piece of meat weighing about five pounds (a neck or 
shoulder piece), adding one quart of water for every pound of 
meat, boihng one hour for each pound of meat. Cook very 
slowly. Do not add any water while cooking. Remove the meat 
and let the liquor stand over night. Skim off the fat, and place 
the remainder of the stock in a stone jar ready for use. — 
L. A. S. 

ANOTHER. 

Take the middle or shank bone of beef, boil four to six hours 
(skim well when it begins to boil). Having about four quarts of 
stock left when done, take the bones out and put away to cool. 
(If you like you can leave a few pieces of the meat.) "When cold 
skim off the fat that rises on the top, and your stock will be 
ready for use. — Mrs. Warne. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Take six large potatoes; when thoroughly done, put them 
through a colander. Put back in a kettle, add one cup cream, 
three pints of milk, J lb. butter. Use a little flour for thickening, 
if you desire. Put in parsley and celery if you like. Season to 
taste, and strain all through a sieve and serve hot. 

ANOTHRR. 

One quart of milk, six potatoes peeled and boiled, one cup of 
butter; season with salt and pepper to taste. Pour on the pota- 
toes the boiling milk, stirring it well, and strain through a sieve. 
Beat up an egg and put in the tureen. After the soup is strained 
heat it again, as it cools in straining, and. add five cents' worth 
of parsley. — Mrs. S. Wheelock. 



Four quarts of water, one quart of sliced potatoes, one-half cup 
of butter, one and one-half pints of milk. Boil the potatoes in 
the water, then add the milk. Make the dumplings with two 
eggs, one cup of sweet milk, one half teaspoonful of salt, soda 
the size of a pea; mix stiff with a spoon, and when the potatoes 
are done drop in the dough, with a spoon, in very small pieces. 
Be sure to have the soup boiling, or the dumplings will be heavy. 
Cook fifteen minutes. — Mrs. Warne. 

POTATO SOUP WITH STOCK. 

Take five pounds of soup meat, a large bunch of soup vege- 
table's, and put in a little more than three quarts of water. Let 
tbis come to a boil, then place on the back of the stove to sim- 
mer about three hours and a half. Allow this stock to become 
cold, then remove all grease. Strain two quarts of stock, and 
add one quart of milk and one-half pint of cream, six large pota- 
toes, after boiling them soft and grated through a colander, half 
cup of butter, two tablespoonsful flour, pepper and salt to taste. 
Let all come to a boil, and strain into the soup through a wire 
sieve. Take one shce of bread, cut thin and toast; cut into 
cubes about one half inch in size, put in wire basket, and fry in 
boiling hot lard Drain a few minutes, then put them in tureen 
before pouring in the soup. These may be used or not, to taste. 
— Mrs. Higgins. 

WHITE SWISS SOUP. 

Take three pints of rich soup stock, beat up two eggs, two 
tablespoonsful of flour, and one cup of milk ; pour this slowly 
through a sieve into the boiling stock ; add salt and pepper to 
taste, and, if yoxi like, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Pour 
the whole once again through the sieve into the soup tureen. — 
Mrs. 0. C. Fordham. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

A dozen ripe tomatoes cooked until tender; then rub through 
a sieve. In the meantime boil one-third of a cup of rice until 
tender; have boiling a quart of milk; put into this a dessert- 



spoonful of butter, then add the tomatoes and rice. Do not let 
it boil after you put in the tomatoes and rice, as it will curdle; 
salt and pepper to taste. — Mks. G. W. Higgins. 

ANOTHER. 

One quart of milk, one large coffee cup of cooked tomatoes, 
one tablespoonful of butter, one-half of a teaspoonful of soda; 
salt and pepper; six small crackers, rolled. Stir in the soda, and 
when the tomatoes stop foaming, add the milk and seasoning. — 
Mrs. George Matthews. 

another. 

One quart can of tomatoes to one and one-half quarts of boil- 
ing water; strain through a colander; when cool, add one quart 
of milk; butter, salt, pepper to taste; roll twenty-four oyster 
crackers fine and add to the soup. Let this come to a boil, and 
serve immediately. — Mrs. James Spink. 

ANOTHER. 

One quart can of tomatoes, two heaping tablespoonsful of 
flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of sugar, one pint 
of hot water. Let tomatoes and water come to a boil ; rub the 
flour, butter, and a tablespoonful of tomatoes together, stir into 
the boiling mixture, and add seasoning. Boil all together fifteen 
minutes, then put through a seive. Serve with toasted bread cut 
in slices, buttered; cut in squares, put into a pan buttered side 
up, and browned in a quick oven. — Mrs. F. H. Cobb. 

ANOTHER. 

Take four quarts of the same stock, two-thirds of a can of 
tomatoes; thicken with flour and water stirred to the consistency 
of cream, and cook one hour. — Mrs. Warne. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP. 

One quart of black beans soaked over night; drain off this 
water, and add one gallon of cold water, two pounds of salt pork> 
enough pepper to suit the taste. Boil moderately until the beans 
are entirely cooked to pieces. If desired, it can be strained. 
Slice two lemons, place in the tureen, and pour the soup over 
them. — Mrs. Stowe. 



BEAN SOUP. 

Soak a quart of beans in cold water over night. In the morn- 
ing drain off the water and wash them, then put them into the 
soup kettle with five quarts of good beef stock, first removing all 
the grease. Set it where it will boil slowly four hours, or until 
the beans are all boiled to pieces. Before serving put in a can of 
tomatoes, season with salt and pepper; strain through a wire 
sieve. In winter it will keep for several days. — Mrs. "Willard 
Woodard. 

ANOTHER. 

Take one pint of beans and soak over night; drain off the 
water, and add four quarts of stock like the above. Cook two 
hours, and season with pepper and salt. — Mrs. Warne. 

BARLEY SOUP. 

Boil one cupful of barley in three pints of clear stock until 
reduced to a pulp, pass it through a fine sieve, return to the fire, 
and add stock enough to make it of the consistency of cream ; 
season with celery and salt. When it boils up, remove from the 
fire, and stir into it the yolk of an egg beaten up with a cup of 
cream or milk, add a piece of butter, and serve with small slice 
of toasted bread. — Miss Gibson. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

One pint of vegetables, .including turnips, carrots, parsnips 
and celery, all chopped fine in a tray. Boil (in water enough to 
cover them) until tender, then add one quart of rich stock; sea- 
son with salt and pepper; boil a few minutes and serve with the 
vegetables. — Mrs. Willard Woodard. 

ANOTHER. 

Take four quarts of the stock, one -fourth head of cabbage, one 
carrot, one turnip, one medium-sized onion, one small tomato or 
a little tomato catsup, two potatoes. Cook one hour, then take 
one egg, rub dry in flour with the hand to make it fine, drop in 
the soup, and cook all together fifteen minutes. Season with salt 
and pepper, when about half done, to suit the taste. — Mrs. 
Warne. 



GUMBO SOUP. 

Take a fowl of good size, cut it up, season with salt and pep- 
per, and dredge it with flour. Take the soup kettle and put in 
it a tablespoonful of butter, one of lard, and one of onion, chopped 
fine. Next fry the fowl till well browned, and add four quarts of 
water. The pot should now (being well covered) be allowed to 
simmer for two hours ; then put in twenty or thirty oysters, a 
handful of chopped okra or gumbo, and a very little thyme, and 
let it simmer for a half hour longer. Just before serving it up 
add about half a tablespoonful of feelee powder and a little cay- 
enne pepper. — Mrs. F. E. 

NOODLE SOUP. 

Take four quarts of stock, then take three eggs and a little salt; 
mix with flour as stiff as can be rolled ; roll thin as a knife blade ; 
divide in three parts; flour it well and roll up tight as you can, 
and cut crosswise, very thin, and shake out into rings. Season 
the stock with salt and pepper, and have it boiling hot, and drop 
in the noodles. Cook half an hour or less.— Mrs. Warne. 

ANOTHER. 

Take a nice chicken and boil it until tender. In the meantime 
take two eggs, two tablespoonsful of sweet milk, a little salt; mix 
them with the flour quite stiff ; divide this mixture in four cakes 
and roll very thin, tben spread over paper to dry a couple of 
hours; then roll up and cut very fine. When the chicken is 
done take it out. There should be two quarts of liquor, to which 
add the noodles, cooking five minutes. Take the chicken, flour 
it, and fry in butter and lard, and you will have mock spring 
chicken. — Mrs. G. W. Higgins. 

DUMPLINGS FOR SOUP. 

One tablespoonful of butter stirred to a cream ; add to this the 
whites of two eggs and yolk of one, well beaten, and flour 
enough to make a stiff batter. Season with sage, summer savory, 
or sweet majoram (nutmeg, if preferred), then drop teaspoons- 
ful into the soup about ten minutes before serving. — Mrs. James 
Taylor. 



10 

MILK SOUP. 

Four large potatoes, two leeks, two ounces of butter, three 
tablespoonsful (heaping measure) crushed tapioca, one pint of 
milk. Put the potatoes and leeks, cut into four pieces, in the 
saucepan with two quarts of boiling water, and the two ounces of 
butter, a teaspoonful of salt, pepper to taste. Boil one hour, 
then run through a sieve and return to the saucepan; add the 
milk, sprinkle in the tapioca, let it boil fifteen minutes, and serve. 
— Miss Gibson. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Take a calf's head, feet, and liver; cleanse them thoroughly, 
and separate, putting in the pot a small piece of salt pork and a 
turnip. Cook the head and feet three hours, the liver, pork, and 
turnip two; when done, remove to a platter, and serve with 
boiled potatoes and drawn butter. This is usually served the 
first day. On the next day take the liquor, put in a soup kettle, 
take four onions, which should be sliced and cooked tender in 
some water; then add to the liquor (which will be jellied), care- 
fully cut from the bones, small pieces of meat, and put in the 
kettle, also, a little salt, ground cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, black 
and red pepper, and enough flour to thicken it. Just before serv- 
ing add a bit of butter, a little sugar, and a glass of sherry wine. 
— Mrs. C. A. Morse. 

POTAGE— AUX-POIREAUX. 

Take two leeks (the white and the green), cut them up and fry 
them about ten minutes in two tablespoonsful of butter; to this 
add one dozen small potatoes; place on the top of this, one and 
one-half slices of bread, and cover the whole with water, letting 
it boil until the potatoes are done; then remove the bread, mash 
the potatoes, adding stock (which should be made the day before) 
sufficient to make as much soup as desired, letting it boil three- 
quarters of an hour. On adding the stock put in, three table- 
spoonsful of barley, which has been previously washed and swelled 
sufficiently by putting it in cold water and setting it on the back 
of the stove, where it will cook slowly. Season with salt and pep- 
per to taste. — A. B. H. 



11 

OYSTER SOUP. 

To one quart of oysters take one pint of water and one quart 
of milk. "When scalding hot add a large piece of butter, one-half 
dozen rolled crackers, and salt to taste. Put in the oysters when 
the milk is scalding hot. Let all scald, but not boil. In using 
canned oysters, strain off the juice before putting in the soup. — 
Mrs. Leary. 



13 



MEATS 



ROAST BEEF. 

Take an eight-pound roastj flour the bottom of the pan ; place in 
the beef; sprinkle salt, pepper, and a little flour over the top. Place 
in a hot oven, without auy water, allowing fifteen minutes to 
each pound of meat for roasting. Just before removing from 
pan put a little water in to make the gravy. — L. A. S. 

ROAST VEAL. 

If your veal be the loin, cook in the same manner as beef. If 
the fillet, stuff and bake in same manner. — L. A. S. 

SMOTHERED BEEF AND ONIONS. 

Take a nice round or sirloin steak, leaving the fat on. Cut in 
two pieces and place on the bottom of dish, with a thick layer of 
sliced onions, seasoned well with salt and pepper. Then put the 
other piece of steak over it, and a layer of onions, the same as 
before. Bub a piece of butter about the size of a walnut in flour 
and put between layers. Put a heavy plate on the layers and 
cover tightly. Then put on the back of the stove and let it cook 
slowly four or five hours. Then it is ready to serve. — Mrs. 
Welles. 

LAMB OR MUTTON ROAST. 

Boast the same as beef. If your roast be a fore quarter, 
remove the bones and stuff.— L. A. S. 

ANOTHER. 

Place a five-pound leg in a dripping pan; salt, and pour over 
it one quart can of tomatoes, and roast three hours and a half. 
Baste often, with the tomatoes in the pan. After removing the 
roast, strain the gravy; thicken with flour; salt and pepper to 
taste. — Edith F. Greene. 



14 

ROAST PORK. 

Choose a nice piece for roasting, cut a slit lengthwise under- 
neath and fill with onion, chopped fine. Season with salt, pep- 
per, and sage, and place in a dripping pan, with one onion sliced 
on the top. Sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, and put a little 
water in the pan, and bake. — Mrs. Tapper. 

ROAST HAM. 

Take a twelve-pound ham; wash well. Make a thick dough of 
water and flour; cover the ham and place in a pan, without any 
water, and bake four hours. The*n remove from the oven and 
take off the skin and paste. Then take powdered cracker and 
cover the ham. Place in the oven for an hour. — Mrs. Willarh 
Woodard 

BAKED TENDERLOIN. 

Place in an earthen dish some tenderloin, cut in small pieces, 
in a little water. Sprinkle with pepper, salt, and summer savory. 
Eepeat in layers until the dish is full. Wet some bread crumbs, 
season with salt, pepper, and small pieces of butter and summer 
savory. Bake.— Mrs. Tapper. 

TOAD-IN-THE-HOLE. 

Make a batter of three eggs, one quart milk, and Hour enough 
to make the batter the consistency of cream. Grease your pan, 
and, when hot, pour in the batter. Take two pounds sausage, 
prick them with a fork, and place them in the batter. Bake in a 
hot oven one-half hour. To be eaten hot. — Mrs. 0. L. 
Fordham. 

BEEFSTEAK SMOTHERED IN OYSTERS. 

Broil your beefsteak as usual. Take one pint of solid oysters, 
place in a dish with butter, pepper, and salt; cover well and place 
in the oven. When the oysters crack open, turn them over the 
beefsteak and serve hot. — Mrs. J. H. Kendall. 

FRIED LIVER. 

Cut calf's liver into thin slices; place in a dish and pour boil- 
ing water over. Remove and dry with a cloth. Season with 



15 

pepper and salt, and dredge with flour. Have ready some sliced 
bacon; fry it a nice brown. Eemove the bacon and put in the 
liver. Plenty of fat must be used. — Mrs. 0. L. Fordham. 

FRIED VEAL. 

Scald the veal with boiling water. Eemove at once, and dry 
with a cloth. Season with pepper and salt, and dredge with 
flour. Fry in hot drippings or lard. — Mrs. Samuel Mitchell. 

TO FRY VEAL CUTLETS. 

Eoll your cutlet first in cracker crumbs and then in egg. Place 
in a frying pan sliced salt pork, and when done remove and 
put in the cutlet. The salt pork drippings will cook the cutlet. — 
L. A. S. 



Place the cutlets in a dry spider; salt, pepper, and cover 
tightly. Cook slowly until done ; remove to a plate. Put butter 
in the spider to heat. Dip the cutlets in beaten egg and roll in 
cracker crumbs, and fry a nice brown in the butter.— Mrs. Geo. 
Matthews. 

HOT POT. ' 

Two and one-half pounds of lamb chop, three good-sized 
onions peeled and sliced, and some pared potatoes. Place a 
layer of potatoes and onions in the bottom of a four-quart baker, 
dredge with flour; pepper and salt. Next a layer of meat cut 
into pieces about an inch and a half square, seasoned with pepper 
and salt. Continue this until the meat is all used. Have for the 
top layer potatoes cut in quarters, making an oval top. Cover 
with water and cook two hours in a hot oven. — Mrs. Samuel 
Mitchell. 

COOKED CORN BEEF. 

Place your meat in boiling water ; boil gently three or four 
hours, never letting it stop boiling. If water is required, add 
boiling water. Skim thoroughly. Let it remain in the liquor 
until cold. — Mrs. Hilton. 



16 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON WITH CAPER SAUCE. 

Place the leg of mutton in boiling water, with a little salt 
(allowing fifteen minutes to the pound, and this will be rare) ; if 
wanted to be well done, allow more time. 

Sauce foe the Same. — Take one tablespoenful of butter, two of 
flour, a pinch of salt; mix thoroughly, then add a tablespoonful 
of cold water, and pour in boiling water and boil five minutes; 
then add one or two tablespoonsful of capers, according to fancy. 
— Mrs. Tapper. 



19 



FDWLS 



CHICKEN POT-PIE. 

When the chicken is properly prepared by washing clean and 
cutting the joints apart, cook in plenty of water (a little more 
than enough to cover it). Skim carefully when it first commences 
to boil. Cook until tender, then season with pepper and salt; 
then pare and quarter a few potatoes and put them in to boil; 
then drop in the dumplings, made and cut out like baking pow- 
der biscuit, and cook ten minutes. They should be covered up 
tightly when boiling. They will be light if properly made. Too 
long cooking makes them heavy. When done, take them up 
with a fork and put them around the platter, and lay the potatoes 
and chicken on. If the gravy should be properly seasoned with 
salt, pepper, and butter, and thickened with flour and poured on 
the platter, it makes a very nice dish. — Mrs. Woodard. 



Boil the chickens until very tender, putting in a few shces of 
salt pork. When done, make a crust like baking powder biscuit, 
leaving out all shortening. Make as- soft as can be handled, and 
cut in small pieces. Pour off the gravy, leaving just enough to 
keep the chicken from scorching while the dumplings are cook- 
ing. Put your crust on the top of the chicken, being careful not 
to let them settle in the gravy. Cover tightly, and let them cook 
fifteen or twenty miuutes. When done, dish out on a large plat- 
ter, placing the chicken in the center. Pour over the gravy. — 
Mrs. Leary. 

BROILED QUAIL. 

Broil like beefsteak, or smother like chicken. — L A. 8. 



20 

SMOTHERED CHICKEN. 

Split your chickens open on the back and lay in a dripping pan. 
Dredge with flour; pepper and salt; spread with butter, and 
place a little water in the pan. Set in the oven and baste often. 
When a fork enters easily, take them from the pan. Thicken 
the gravy with cream and flour. — Miss Gibson. 

JELLIED CHICKEN. 

Boil the fowl until it will slip from the bones, letting the water 
be reduced to about one pint in boiling. Pick the meat from the 
bones in good-sized pieces, taking out the gristle, fat, and bones. 
Place in a wet mold. Skim the fat from the liquor. Add to the 
liquor, butter, pepper, and salt to taste. Take your bones and 
place back in the liquor; simmer one hour; add more butter, and 
pour the liquor over the chicken. Place a weight upon it until 
cold.— L. A. S. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Roast a large turkey four hours in a slow oven ; baste it with 
the water in the pan, and prick it to let the oil out. After it has 
been in the oven two hours, make an incision between the legs 
and body to let the blood out, and finish basting that way. — Mrs. 
Hilton. 

Turkey Dressing. — Take a loaf (or part of a loaf) of baker's 
bread and rub fine; then take one small onion and chop fine, 
one egg, and a large lump of butter; wet the bread with milk 
sufficient to moisten, and use a little sage, salt, and pepper for 
seasoning. — Mrs. Hilton. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

For a pie baked in an ordinary pan use three good-sized chick- 
ens and a little salt pork, sliced thin. Cook and season, thick- 
ening the gravy (of which have an abundance) the same as for 
fricasseed chicken. Line the sides only of the pan with pie-crust, 
etc., made like biscuit, with baking powder. Pour in the chicken 
(taking out the larger bones). Cover the top with a generous 
layer of oysters, then cover with crust. Bake slowly one hour. 
— Mrs. C. B. Kimball. 



21 

FRICASSEED CHICKEN. 

Boil the chicken until tender, then take it out and strain 
through a colander. Slice and fry brown in pork fat or nice drip- 
pings, then serve with the soup, seasoned with pepper and salt 
and thickened with flour. A small piece of salt pork adds much 
to the flavor, and care should be taken to let it brown well, or it 
will lose its flavor. — Mks. Woodard. 



23 



FISH, 



Fish should be fresh and always well cooked. Never soak 
fresh fish in water unless frozen. If it smells fishy you may 
depend it is stale. In hot weather clean ready for cooking, and 
then put it on the ice until needed, but never salt it; it makes it 
taste old. In boil in;/, always put in cold water; add a little salt 
and vinegar. Twenty minutes will cook two pounds. It looks 
nicer boiled with head and tail on. Serve with sauce. 

To fry, dredge lightly with flour, dip in beaten egg, roll in 
cracker crumbs, and fry in very hot lard. Slices of lemon 
improve it. 

To broil, rub over with melted butter, and broil whole, if pos 
sible — using a wire broiler; it can be turned without breaking. 

To bake, stuff with a dressing, as for poultry, and sew it up. 
Lay strips of salt pork over it sprinkled with pepper, salt, and 
flour. Bake in a hot oven; baste often in water and melted but- 
ter. — Mrs. Willard Woodard. 

CODFISH. 

Take the boneless fish. First pick it up fine with the fingers 
(never cut it), put in a spider filled with cold water, and let it get 
hot (never boil it — it makes it tough) ; then drain off the water 
and fill a second time. When it becomes hot strain off the water, 
put in milk, and thicken with flour; let it just come to a boil, 
when remove from the fire ; put in a small piece of butter. When 
eggs are cheap I beat up two or three very light, stirring in rap- 
idly while bot.«— Mrs. Willard WoOdard. 

BOILED SALT MACKEREL. 

Freshen as above, put in spider, covering with cold water, boil- 
ing until the thick part is soft. Serve with butter and cream. — 
Mrs. W. Woodard. 



24 

FRIED EELS. 

After they are skinned remove head and tail. Cut in pieces 
from two and one-half to three inches in length. Pour boiling 
water over, letting stand until it cools; drain, and pour boiling 
water the same as before, letting it cool. Remove from the water, 
roll in corn meal, and fry in plenty of hot lard until well done. 
They make a very nice dish. — Mrs. W. Woodard. 

FRIED SALT MACKEREL. 

Two large mackerel, soaked over night, previously cutting off 
their heads. In the morning wash and drain, and cut lengthwise 
and crosswise, making four pieces in each. Roll in sifted flour 
and fry in hot drippings. Heat the milk (or cream) and butter, 
and pour over after it is placed on the platter. — Mrs. W. Woodard. 

BOILED FISH WITH PARSLEY SAUCE. 

Select a nice firm fish (trout is the best), tie in a cloth so it will 
not break; let the water boil, with a little salt, before putting in 
the fish, and allow ten minutes to the pound. Make a sauce of 
drawn butter, and add some fine chopped parsley, and serve hot. 
— Mrs. Tapper. 

QUICK AND NOVEL WAY TO FRESHEN SALT 
MACKEREL. 

Wash and lay in sour milk four or five hours. Remove, and, 
after washing, cook in the usual manner. — Mrs. Hurlburt. 

BAKED WHITE FISH. 

An excellent method of preparing this is to take two or three 
pounds of fish. After it is thoroughly scaled and boned, grease a 
baking pan, to prevent it sticking. Place the skin side down, 
and lay three or four slices of salt pork on the fish, and bake one 
hour, or until nicely browned on top. Garnish with sprigs of 
parsley and currant jelly. — Mrs. L. B. Jameson. 

BAKED SALT CODFISH. 

One pint of codfish, two pints of mashed potatoes, one pint of 
milk, one-half cup butter, three eggs, and salt and pepper to suit 



25 . 

taste. Pick up the fish fine, and soak or wash in cold water a 
few minutes only. Mash your potatoes fine; beat your eggs 
light, mix with the seasoning thoroughly, and bake in a moderate 
oven forty -five minutes. With lovers of fish this makes a nice 
dish. — Mrs. Woodard. 

BAKED FRESH TROUT. 

Clean and dry your fish with a cloth ; prepare stuffing of bread 
crumbs; add a well-beaten egg, and season with salt and pepper. 
A small piece of salt pork, chopped fine, adds much. After fill- 
ing the fish with dressing sew it up tight. Bake in a quick oven 
one hour ; baste in butter with hot water. • Serve with gravy with 
thickening of flour. — Mrs. Woodard. 

FRESH HADDOCK CHOWDER. 

Cut a haddock into pieces about an inch thick, roundways. 
Place slices of salt pork in the bottom of kettle, and fry brown, 
after which take out the pork and cut in very small pieces, leav- 
ing the fat in the kettle. Put in a layer of fish, a layer of crack- 
ers (soaked first in cold water), some of the pork, an onion 
chopped fine, with pepper and salt; second layer, repeat a« above; 
cover with water and cook thirty minutes, after which, if too thin, 
thicken with flour. The same recipe can be used with potatoes, 
if you wish. — Mrs. W. Woodard. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

Four dozen clams chopped fine, after draining the juice out; 
one-half pound salt pork, cut in small squares and fried brown ; 
three pints of sliced potatoes; three good- sized onions, sliced. 
Put the fried pork with the fat in the bottom of the kettle, then 
add a layer of potatoes, a layer of clams, a layer of onions, with 
plenty of salt and pepper between each, and pour over the whole 
the juice of the clams, and boiling water to well cover the whole. 
Boil until the potatoes are soft, then add two quarts of milk and 
a layer of crackers; when just ready to boil, put in one spoonful 
of butter, remove from stove, and serve hot. A cod or haddock 
chowder can be made in the same way. — Mrs. L. B. Jameson. 



26 

FRESH FISH CHOWDER. 

Take three pounds of fish, one full quart of potatoes, six slices 
of salt pork, eight Boston crackers; salt and pepper to taste. 
Get a Mackinaw trout, scale and wash clean, slicing roundways. 
Pare and slice the potatoes about as thick as you would to fry. 
Split open the crackers and swell in cold water, using just enough 
water to cover them. Fry the pork a nice light brown, and place 
in the bottom of the kettle; then a layer of potatoes and fish — 
season each layer on the fish ; then a layer of crackers, and so on 
until you have used all your ingredients. This will make a din- 
ner for six persons. Cover with hot water, and cook forty-five 
minutes moderately. When done, put in a piece of butter the 
size of an egg. A cup of sweet cream adds much to its flavor. 
Serve hot. — Mrs. W. Woodaed. 



29 



DYSTERS 



FRIED OYSTERS. 

Take the New York counts, drain them through a colander, dip 
into a well- beaten egg, then in cracker crumbs, and fry in hot 
lard. They will not require salt. Serve hot. — Mrs. Woodaed. 

ROAST OYSTERS. 

Put one quart of large fresh oysters in a basin with the liquor, 
and let come to a boil. Season with salt, pepper, and a large 
tablespoonful of butter. Serve on buttered toast. — Mrs. Wood- 

ARD. 

ESCALOPED OYSTERS. 

Butter the bottom of your dish to prevent from sticking. Eoll 
your crackers, putting a layer on the bottom of your dish. Take 
your oysters out on a fork, so as to avoid pieces of shell. Have 
the oysters cover the cracker. Add salt, pepper, and small pieces 
of butter, then a layer of crackers, then oysters, same as before, 
and so on until within one niche of the top of the dish, having 
the top layer of crackers, after which cover the whole with milk. 
Cook forty-five minutes in a quick oven. If they look too dry on 
top pour over a little milk with butter melted in it. — Mrs. Wood- 
ard. 

ANOTHER. 

One pound of oyster crackers, one cup of milk, one cup of but- 
ter, two quarts of solid meat oysters (not drained), and salt and 
pepper to taste. Put a layer of crackers in the dish first, then 
oysters, putting in the seasoning and butter between each layer. 
Eepeat this until your meterial is all used, and over the last layer 
(which should be of crackers) put small bits of butter, and cook 
until done. — Mrs. Warne. 



30 

FRICASSEE OYSTERS. 

Lay fifty oysters on a cloth to dry. Butter, the size of a small 
egg, browned in a frying pan. Put in the oysters. As soon as 
they begin to cook, pour in one teacupful of milk, in which has 
been mixed a tablespoonful of flour and a little salt and pepper. 
Let this boil up; then take from the fire, and add a well-beaten 
egg. Pour over hot buttered toast, on a hot platter. — Mrs. D. 
S. Paekhuest. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Heat the oysters and liquor as they come from the can, then 
take out the oysters and add the yolks of eggs to the liquor 
(allowing one yolk to every dozen oysters) ; salt and pepper to 
taste. Make a crust, same as for pie, and line muffin rings with 
the crust, cut out some tops and bake separately ; put the oysters 
back into the liquor and heat them (not boil), then fill the rings, 
putting over the tops, and send to the table hot. — Mes. Moyer. 

OYSTER CHOWDER. 

Place two slices of salt pork in a kettle and fry, then skim out 
the scraps, adding one quart water and one onion, sliced. Boil 
ten minutes (keeping the vessel tightly covered), after which add 
salt and pepper to taste, and one and one-half pints of sliced pota- 
toes. Cook until done, when one quart of oysters (which have 
been* previously put in enough water to cover them, and have 
come to a boil), should be added; also one pint of milk. Let 
this all come to a boil, and just before serving take four Boston 
hard crackers, split and butter them, and add to the chowder. 
This will be sufficient for a family of four or five persons. — Mrs. 
H. P. Paekhuest, 



33 



VEGETABLES 



POTATOES A LA CREME. 

Put into a sauce-pan two tablespoonsful of butter (an iron 
spoon that is used in cooking), two teaspoonsful of flour, salt, 
pepper, and a tablespoonful of cbopped parsley; stir them 
together, adding a good half cup of cream or milk. Set the sauce- 
pan on the stove, and sti constantly until it boils; then add some 
cold potatoes cut in slices or squares, and cook the whole until 
the potatoes are well heated through, serving hot. This is a good 
way to use up cold potatoes, and, if rightly prepared, is very nice. 
— Miss Gibson. 

ESCALOPED POTATOES. 

Pare and slice raw potatoes thin (about one-eighth of an inch 
in thickness), drain or wipe them dry, then butter well any ordi- 
nary earthen pudding dish, place a layer of the sliced potatoes, 
sprinkling over a little salt, pepper, and bits of butter ; then put 
in two or three tablespoonsful of milk, dredging over a little flour; 
add another layer of potatoes in the same manner, and so on 
until the dish is filled. There should be enough milk to see it, 
but not cover the potatoes. Put a liberal amount of butter on 
the top, putting it on in bits so it will brown nicely, and bake in 
a hot oven until the potatoes are done. — Miss Gibson. 

ESCALOPED TOMATOES. 

Take a dish holding about two quarts and rub butter over the 
sides and bottom. Then roll crackers and put a layer on the bot- 
tom, then a layer of tomatoes, peeled and sliced; sprinkle pepper 
and salt and small pieces of butter over the tomatoes. Repeat 
about three times, leaving the tomatoes at the top. If the toma- 
toes are juicy they will need no water to moisten them ; if not, a 
little water should be added. — Mrs. Woodard. 



34 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Cut large ripe tomatoes in halves and place in a dripping-pan. 
In each half put a small piece of butter, season with salt and 
pepper, dredge with cracker crumbs, and bake about fifteen min- 
utes. — Mrs. T. F. Lawrence. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Slice and peel; beat up one egg; dip each slice in the egg, then 
in rolled cracker, and fry in lard; pepper and salt to taste. — Mrs. 
0. C. Fordham. 

MACARONI. 

Take about one-half pound of Italian macaroni, break it into 
strips about three inches or so long, put it into a vessel with a 
teaspoonful of salt, cover it with cold water and let it boil until 
perfectly tender, then drain. Take a shallow earthen dish, but- 
ter it well, put in the macaroni (and just here I always taste it to 
see if it is salt enough; if not, add to taste;) and enough hot 
milk so you can see it in the dish, but not cover it; put over 
small bits of butter and enough grated cheese to cover it, then 
place in a hot oven and cook twenty or thirty minutes, as may be 
required. This is a very nice dish with roast beef. — Miss 
Oibson. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Take three pints of beans; soak over night,, and in the morn- 
ing rinse thoroughly. Place them in a kettle of warm water, 
bringing them to a boil for about five minutes. Again pour the 
water off the beans through the colander ; then put them again 
into the kettle with fresh water, seasoning with one and one-half 
pounds of salt pork, three tablespoonsful of New Orleans molas- 
ses, a little cayenne pepper (salt, if needed). Let it all boil for 
about twenty minutes. Have ready a jar, with cover. Pour in 
the beans, with the broth. Scarify your pork (your butcher will 
do that for you), lay it on top of your beans, cover over, and put 
them in a warm, steady oven for ten or twelve hours. Add water 
two or three times while baking. Pour them out on a platter. 
Never use a spoon, as that crushes them. — Mrs. Anna E. Morse. 



35 

BAKED BEANS. 

One quart dry white beans, one full pound of fat salt pork, two 
large tablespoonsful molasses, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half 
teaspoonful baking soda. Pick over and wash the beans, then 
soak over night in cold water enough to keep them covered. In 
the morning put them in a kettle with fresh cold water, and boil 
until you can mash them with a spoon. Then strain through a 
colander and pour them in a bean-pot. Wash and scrape the 
rind of the pork, cutting it in creases about one-fourth of an inch 
apart, and put in the center of the beans. Dissolve the soda in 
hot water and pour in the beans; also the molasses, with a little 
salt, if needed. Cover the whole with boiling water, and bake in 
a moderate oven four or five hours. Long cooking improves 
them. — Mrs. W. Woodaed. 

EGG PLANT. 

Peel and slice an egg plant; put on in cold water; boil until 
tender, then drain, mash fine, and season with salt and pepper; 
add one beaten egg and one tablespoonful of flour; make into 
small cakes and drop into hot, scalding lard. Some think it best 
to allow the egg plant to stand in salted water before boiling." — 
Mrs. Gr. W. Higgins. 

ANOTHER. 

Take an egg plant, peel and cut it in thin slices, cover a good- 
sized open dish with the slices, and sprinkle salt over them; then 
add another layer, sprinkling over more salt, and so on until you 
have used up all the slices of egg plant ; then cover this with cold 
water (putting a plate on the top to keep the slices in the water), 
letting it stand until the water is dark and of a purplish hue, when 
it can be taken out and drained. Then take a spider, let it get 
hot, put in butter enough to fry it until it is tender and well 
browned. Place on a dish, and, if it is not too salt, put more 
butter on it. — Miss Gibson. 

ASPARAGUS AND EGGS. 

Cut the tender part of two bunches of asparagus into pieces 
half an inch long and boil, in just enough water to cover, about 



3t> 

twenty minutes ; drain till dry, and put into a sauce-pan contain- 
ing a cup and a half of rich drawn butter. Heat together to a 
boil, season with salt and pepper, pour into the dish they are to 
be in, which should be buttered; then break half a dozen eggs 
over the surface (be careful not to break the yolk), a small piece 
of butter on each, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and put in the 
oven until the eggs are set. — Mrs. G. W. Higgins. 

ESCALOPED ONIONS. 

Boil, until tender, six large onions, then separate them with a 
spoon, placing a layer of bread crumbs and onions, alternately, 
in a buttered pudding dish ; season with salt, pepper, and butter ; 
moisten with milk, and put in the oven to brown. — Mrs. Hilton. 



39 



ENTREES 



CALF'S LIVER AND HEART HASH. 

Take a good- sized liver and heart, boil them tender, then add 
four onions, and chop together fine; then put it back in the liquor 
that it was boiled in and let it simmer for an hour ; season with 
butter, salt, and pepper. A little parsley, added just before tak- 
ing up, is liked by some. — Mrs. Wells. 

FORCE MEAT BALLS. 

One cup of raw veal, chopped fine; one *cup of cracker crumbs, 
one tablespoonful of butter; salt and pepper; mix well, make 
into small balls, roll in egg, and fry brown. — Mrs. George Mat- 
thews. 

FRICASSEED TRIPE. 

Buy the honeycombed tripe, cut it in narrow strips, cover with 
water or milk, a good piece of butter rolled in flour; season with 
salt and pepper to taste; two good-sized onions, sliced. Let 
simmer slowly for one hour, and serve hot, garnished with pars- 
ley. — Mrs. 0. C. Fordham. 

SWEETBREADS SERVED WITH PEAS. 

Put them in cold water for about an hour as soon as they come 
from the market, then in salted boiling water, letting them boil 
until they are thoroughly tender, when they should be taken out 
and immediately plunged in cold water for a few moments, to 
make them firm and white. Remove the skin and little pipes and 
put away until you are ready to prepare your meal, when they 
should be put in a stewpan ; add more salt, if necessary ; pepper 
and butter; cover with milk and flour enough to make a gravy. 
The peas should be cooked separately, and, when done and ready 
to serve, place tbe sweetbreads in the center of the dish and pour 
the peas around them. — Miss Girson. 



40 

FRIED SWEETBREADS. 

Let them lay in slightly salted water for three hours, then take 
them out and dry them on a cloth ; split them and dip them in a 
beaten egg, then in cracker crumbs, and fry slowly in hot lard for 
about fifteen minutes. — Mes. Wheeler. 

MOCK DUCK. 

Two pork tenderloins cut so as to lay fiat; sew together and 
stuff, and roast one and one-half hours. 

Stuffing. — Three fourths of a cup of bread or cracker crumbs, 
one teaspoonful of sage, a little salt, pepper, and butter. —Edith 
F. Greene. 

ANOTHER. 

Take pork tenderloins and split them lengthwise ; sew together, 
leaving one end open to fill with a dressing of oysters, rolled 
cracker, butter, pepper, and salt, the same as for turkey dressing; 
then sew the end and bake, in a slow oven, one hour and a half. 
Bound beefsteak may be substituted for the tenderloins ; also any 
kind of dressing preferred. — Mrs. 0. C. Fordham. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Three pounds raw veal, one-half pound raw salt pork, chopped 
fine; three soda crackers, rolled fine; two eggs, one teaspoonful 
eacli of pepper and salt, a little sage. Make in a loaf and baste, 
while baking, with water and butter size of an egg. Cover the 
outside of the loaf with some of your rolled cracker. Bake 
about three hours. Cut in thin slices and eat cold. — Mrs. W. 
McFarland. 

PRESSED BEEF. 

Take three or four pounds of beef cut from the round, and a 
medium- sized soup bone. Cook together until the meat drops 
from the bone. Put salt in while cooking. Cook the water away 
except enough to moisten the meat. Take out the bones, sepa- 
rate the meat, season with pepper, place in a deep dish ; turn over 
the meat in the water in which it was cooked. Turn a plate over 
the meat, put a heavy weight on, and let stand until thoroughly 
cold. Slice thin when served. — Mrs. Parkhukst. 



41 

BEEF PIE. 

One and one-half pounds round steak ; put it in and boil three 
hours, letting the water boil away until there is about one quart 
of gravy. Thicken this with one and one-half tablespoonsful of 
flour ; season with pepper and salt. Put in a two-quart earthen 
dish and cover the top with a nice biscuit crust. Bake twenty 
minutes. — Mrs. McFarland. 

VEAL PIE. 

Boil about three pounds of nice lean veal. When thoroughly 
cooked remove bones and fat, season, and make a nice gravy. 
Cover the bottom of an earthen dish with a layer of the veal, 
then a layer of raw potatoes, sliced thin ; then another of sliced 
tomatoes, and last one of veal. Cover the whole with a soft crust 
made like biscuit, only stirred stiff. If properly seasoned and 
cooked this is a nice dish. — Mrs. C. B. Kimball. 

WHITE HASH. 

Take cold chicken or turkey, take off the skin, mince the meat 
very fine ; season with salt and cayenne pepper. Put the skin 
and bones into a sauce. pan with a sliced onion, a bay leaf, and a 
little salt. Let it stew for half an hour, then strain it and add 
the hashed meat, and let the whole stew for a few minutes. Be- 
fore serving, stir in one-half cup of cream, in which has been 
rubbed smooth (to thicken it) a little corn starch. Serve on thin 
slices of toast. — Miss Gibson. 

POTATO PUFF. 

Take cold meat — roast beef, mutton, or veal, and ham together 
— clear from gristle, cut small, and season with pepper and salt 
(and cut pickles, if liked). Boil and mash some potatoes, make 
them into a paste with an egg, and roll out, dredging with flour; 
cut round with a saucer, put some of the seasoned meat on one- 
half, and fold the other over like a puff, pinch neatly round and 
fry a light brown. This is a good method of warming up meat 
that has been cooked. — Mrs. S. J. Wheeler. 



42 

CORN OYSTERS. 

Take eight ears of corn, grate or cut very fine into a dish; to 
this add one well-beaten egg, a little salt, and soda about the size 
of a pea ; mix well together with one teacup of flour, and fry like 
oysters, dropping it into hot fat by the spoonful. — Mrs. C. A. 
Morse. 

CLAM FRITTERS. 

For a family of five persons take one cup of milk, one egg well 
beaten, flour enough to make a stiff batter; then pour in one pint 
of chopped clams, add a little salt, and soda the size of a pea. 
Drop a tablespoonful of the batter in hot lard at a time. — Mrs. 
C. A. Morse. 

GREEN CORN FRITTERS. 

Twelve ears of corn, grated; four eggs, one tablespoonful of 
butter, salt, and a very little flour. Drop a spoonful of the bat- 
ter into boiling lard. — Mrs. W. Moyer. 



45 



BREADS 



MARYLAND BREAD. 

One pint of milk, two well-beaten eggs, butter tbe size of an 
egg (melted), one cup of sugar, salt and yeast; mix with a spoon 
to a stiff batter — not as stiff as bread, but so you can pour it in 
the pan ; when perfectly light add a little soda, and let it rise 
until an hour before tea time, then bake in a deep tin like a loaf 
cake. Put the loaf whole on the table, and cut it with a sharp 
knife as you eat. Reliable. — Mrs. C. A. Morse. 

CORN BREAD. 

One cup sweet milk, one egg, one tablespoonful melted butter, 
two tablespoonsful sugar, two teaspoonsful baking powder, two 
cups corn meal, a little less than one cup flour. Pour into a hot 
greased tin and bake one-half hour. — M. M. Bridge. 

ANOTHER. 

Two tablespoonsful of brown sugar, one tablespoonful butter, 
two eggs; stir all together; add one cup sweet milk, three tea- 
spoonsful baking powder, three-fourths of a cup of corn meal, 
and flour enough to make it quite stiff. — Mrs. Wells. 

MOTHERS BROWN BREAD. 

Three pints of corn meal, two pints of rye meal, one cup of 
New Orleans molasses, two cups of sour milk, one teaspoonful of 
soda, one quart of warm water, a teaspoonful of salt; mix well 
together, and bake from three to four hours in a moderate oven. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 

One quart corn meal, one pint flour, one cup molasses, one 
quart sweet milk, two teaspoonsful soda, dessert-spoonful salt. 
Steam three hours and bake one half hour. — M. M. Bridge. 



46 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

One quart sweet milk, two-thirds of a cup of molasses, one 
egg, one heaping teaspoonful saleratus, one teaspoonful salt, one 
pint rye meal, two pints of Indian meal. Steam two hours and 
bake one half hour.— Mrs. S. J. Wheeler. 

FLORA'S GRAHAM BREAD. 

One quart of Graham flour, one pint of sour milk, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of salt, one teacupful of New 
Orleans molasses; mix well together, and bake in a moderate 
oven an hour. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

One pint of warm water, one cup of wheat flour,. one table- 
spoonful of scalded meal, one cup of bread sponge, one-half of a 
cup of molasses, a teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of 
soda; then add as much Graham flour as can be stirred in with a 
spoon. — Mrs. E. Parkhurst. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

One cupful sour milk, one-half teaspoonful salt; one even tea- 
spoonful saleratus, one tablespoonful sugar, a piece of lard half 
the size of an egg, one-third flour, and two-thirds Graham flour; 
mix to a stiff batter; heat your gem-pans hot before you fill. 
Bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. — Mrs. S. J. Wheeler. 

ANOTHER. 

One cup of sweet milk, one pint of Graham flour, two tea- 
spoonsful of baking powder, two tablespoonsful of melted but- 
ter. Pour into greased gem-pans, piping hot. Bake in a quick 
oven.- — Mrs. Geo. Matthews. 

MUFFINS. 

Two tablespoonsful of sugar, two eggs, one coffee cup of milk, 
one quart of flour, one heaping teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Beat the eggs and sugar together thoroughly, adding the milk; 
then put the baking powder in the flour and sift the whole, put- 
ting in a little salt. This quantity will fill a dozen gem-pans, 
which should be well buttered and hot before filling. — Miss 
Gibson. 



47 

MUFFINS RAISED WITH YEAST. 

One quart of warm sweet milk, two eggs, one-half of a cup of 
yeast, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a pinch of salt, and 
flour enough to make a batter as stiff as pancakes. Bake in 
muffin rings on a griddle. Very nice. — Miss Gibson. 

PECULIARS. 

Two eggs, one pint of milk, one and one-half pints of flour, 
two teaspoonsful baking powder, with a pinch of salt. Bake in 
gem-tins, and have the tins hot before putting in the batter. — 
Mrs. Wells. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

One teacupful sweet milk, one teacupful buttermilk, one tea- 
spoonful salt, one teaspoonful soda, one tablespoonful melted but- 
ter, enough meal to enable you to roll into a sheet half an inch 
thick. Spread upon a buttered tin, or shallow pan, and bake 
forty minutes. As soon as it begins to brown, baste it with a rag 
tied to a stick and dipped in melted butter. Bepeat this five or 
six times, until it is brown and crisp. Break it apart instead of 
cutting up. — Mrs. S. Wheelock. 

SALLY LUNN. 

One small cup of butter, one cup of sugar, four eggs, two cups 
of milk, two teaspoonsful of baking powder sifted in flour, and 
enough flour to make a thin batter. Bake in a quick oven, in a 
shallow pan. To be eaten warm. — Mrs. E. H. Leary. 

PANCAKES FOR BREAKFAST. 

One pint of corn meal, two pints of flour, and about one quart 
of warm water or milk, one-half of a teacup of yeast, and one 
teaspoonful of salt. If more convenient, can use compressed 
yeast by dissolving one-half of a cake in a little warm water, and 
put in the batter and set to rise over night. — Miss Gibson. 



4<> 



CRDQUETTS, 



CHICKEN CROQUETTS. 

To each pint of minced fowl add half a pint of cream ; season 
with pepper, salt, and a little parsley. Heat together in a stew- 
pan ; when boiling, thicken with a tahlespoonful of flour and one 
of butter stirred to a smooth paste. Let it cook a few minutes, 
then stir in the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and remove from 
the fire immediately. When cool, roll into forms about three 
inches long, coat with egg and cracker crumbs, and fry in a wire 
basket in smoking hot lard. Great care should be taken to have 
the mixture as soft and delicate as can be handled, and season 
with care. — Mks. G. W. Higgins. 

RICE CROQUETTS. 

Boil one cup of rice about two hours ; when cool, stir in one 
egg, half a cup of sugar, about one teaspoonful of butter; roll 
into forms about three inches long, dip into the white of one egg 
and roll in cracker crumbs; place in a wire basket, and fry to a 
light brown in smoking hot lard. This makes a nice dessert 
when eaten with any kind of pudding sauce. — Mrs. G. W. Hig- 
gins. 

FISH CROQUETTS. 

Take cold cooked fish and pick it from the bones, chop it fine; 
add salt, pepper, and milk enough to soften them. Eoll first in 
egg, beaten light, then in cracker crumbs, and fry brown in hot 
lard. — Mrs. Woodard. 

POTATO RISSOLES. 

Mash potatoes ; salt and pepper to taste ; mix with one egg well 
beaten, roll into forms about three inches long, coat with egg and 
rolled cracker; fry in a wire basket, in smoking hot lard, till a 
light brown. — Mrs. G. W. Higgins. 



50 

POTATO CROQUETTS. 

Take six potatoes, cook soft, and strain through a colander; 
mix three eggs (one at a time) without beating, two tablespoons- 
ful of bread crumbs, a little butter and salt in the potatoes; place 
over the fire, and stir just a few minutes. Set to cool, then roll 
into balls, and fry in hot lard. Nice breakfast dish. — Mrs. 
Kendall. 



51 



E&GS 



SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Take six eggs and beat up with a tablespoonful of sweet milk, 
and add a little salt. Put a little butter in the frying-pan, and 
when it is hot turn the eggs in and cook one minute ; stir while 
cooking. — Mrs. Parkhurst. 

BAKED OMELET. 

Boil a pint of milk, and melt in it one teaspoonful of butter 
and one of salt ; stir in a tablespoonful of flour, rubbed smooth 
in cold milk. Pour this on seven eggs, which have been beaten 
light; stir very fast; then pour the omelet in a hot buttered dish 
that will hold a quart. Bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. 
This is sufficient for seven or eight persons. — Milford. 

EGG OMELET. 

Take six eggs and beat them well, allowing one tablespoonful 
of milk to each egg, a little salt and pepper ; then pour into a 
well-buttered spider. When almost done put it in the oven to 
brown ; then put a platter on the spider, and deftly turn the whole 
upside down. — Jane. 



53 



RELISHES, 



PICKLED OYSTERS. 

To one gallon of oysters add one pint of water ; scald them in 
a porcelain kettle (but not boil); add salt; then take them out 
with a skimmer and sprinkle them with whole pepper, allspice, 
and cloves; cover with cold vinegar, and, after standing three or 
four hours, pour off the vinegar and add fresh vinegar. — Mrs. 
W. Mover. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

Two heads of cabbage, two heads of cauliflower, one dozen 
cucumbers, six roots of celery, six peppers, one quart of small 
white onions, two quarts of green tomatoes ; shave the cabbage, 
and the rest cut in small pieces. The cucumbers, peppers, and 
tomatoes should be put in salt and water over night, then drain, 
and cook each vegetable separately until tender, when they should 
be again drained and mixed together thoroughly. Put into a ket- 
tle two gallons of vinegar, one -fourth of a pound of mustard 
seed, one-fourth of a pound of dry mustard, one pot of French 
mustard, one ounce of whole cloves, two ounces of turmeric. Let 
it come to a boil, and pour this dressing over the chow-chow. — 
Mrs. W. Mover. 

ANOTHER. 

One quart of large cucumbers, peeled and cut lengthwise; one 
quart of small cucumbers, one quart of onions, one quart of 
string beans, one quart of green tomatoes, one large cauliflower, 
six green peppers, quartered. Put all in weak salt water for 
twenty-four hours, then scald in the same water. 

For the Paste to the Same. — Take six tablespoonsful of Tay- 
lor's mustard, one tablespoonful of turmeric, one and one-half 
cups of sugar, one cup of flour, two quarts of best vinegar. Cook 
slowly, and pour over the pickles hot. — Mrs. Warren. 



54 

BORDEAUX SAUCE. 

One peck of green tomatoes, four small heads of cabbage, five 
onions, two red and two green peppers. Shave the cabbage and 
chop the rest ; mix well together and cook a little while (there is 
generally a sufficient quantity of juice to cook it) ; then add three 
quarts of vinegar, two pounds of coffee sugar, one-fourth of a 
pound of white mustard seed, one-half pint of salt, one-eighth 
pound of whole allspice, and five cents' worth of celery seed. 
Boil one hour. — Mrs. James Fernald. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Twenty-four ripe tomatoes, peel and slice; twelve green pep- 
pers, chopped fine; eight large onions, chopped fine; eight table- 
spoonsful sugar, four tablespoonsful salt, four tablespoonsful gin- 
ger, four teaspoonsful cloves, nine tea-cups vinegar. Put all in 
a large vessel and boil two hours. — Mrs. D. C. Perkins. 

another. 
Twenty-four ripe tomatoes, chopped fine; four large onions, 
chopped fine ; six green peppers, chopped fine ; three tablespoons- 
ful salt, eight tablespoonsful brown sugar, six tea-cups vinegar. 
Season with cloves, cinnamon, ginger, and nutmeg. Cook slowly 
until done. Seal tight. — Mrs. A. S. Bailey. 

ANOTHER. 

Eighteen ripe tomatoes, three green peppers, one onion; chop 
the peppers and onion fine; two and one-half cups vinegar, three- 
fourths of a cup of sugar, three teaspoonsful salt, and one tea- 
spoonful each of cloves and allspice. Cook one-half hour and 
seal tight. —Mrs. E. Parkhurst. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Twenty-four ripe tomatoes, eight onions, four large peppers, 
six cups of sugar and eight cups of vinegar, four tablespoonsful 
of salt, two teaspoonsful of cloves, two of cinnamon. Boil 
onions, tomatoes, and peppers together (after chopping) two 
hours, then add the spices just before it is done and when it 
thickens. — Mrs. C. A. Morse. 



SHIRLEY SAUCE. 

Twelve ripe tomatoes, six onions, two red peppers, one cup 
sugar, one cup vinegar, two tablespoon sful salt. Chop tomatoes, 
onions, and peppers fine; add the rest. Boil two hours and bot- 
tle. — Mrs. Geo. Matthews. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Take two tablespoonsful of green mint, cut fine, add to it two 
tablespoon sful of sugar and half a teacupful of vinegar. — Miss 
Gibson. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Boil the tomatoes until they can be rubbed through a sieve. 
To each gallon of pulp and juice add four tablespoonsful of salt, 
four tablespoonsful of ground pepper, three tablespoonsful of 
ground mustard, one -half teaspoonful of allspice (if you like), 
and one pint of vinegar. Boil until it thickens ; strain through 
a sieve, and while hot put into bottles and seal. — Mrs. W. Mc- 
Farland. 

ANOTHER. 

One peck ripe tomatoes; cut out all poor spots and mash. Let 
it come to a boil and strain through a sieve. Then boil thick as 
desired, adding one cup sugar, black and cayenne pepper, salt, 
cloves, cinnamon, and ground allspice to suit the taste. — Mrs. E. 
Parkhurst. 

ANOTHER. 

One-half bushel tomatoes, one quart of vinegar, three-fourths 
of a pound of table salt, one -fourth of a pound of whole black 
pepper, one-fourth of a pound of whole allspice, one ounce of 
whole cloves, two pounds of brown sugar, six large onions, sliced, 
two teaspoonsful (light measure) of red pepper, four teaspoonsful 
of ground mustard. Pour boiling water over the tomatoes so the 
.skins can be easily removed, put them in the boiler, breaking 
them up in small pieces; add all the spices, vinegar, onions, and 
sugar, and let it boil from four to six hours, as may seem neces- 
sary, stirring constantly to keep it fsom burning; then strain 
through a sieve and bottle while hot. — Miss Gibson. 



56 

CHERRY CATSUP. 

Five pounds of stoned cherries, two pounds of brown sugar, 
one pint of vinegar, one tablespoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of 
pepper, and one teaspoonful of cloves. Cook two hours. — Mrs. 
C. A. Morse. 

SPICED GOOSEBERRIES. 

Eight pounds of fruit, four pounds of sugar, one ounce of 
ground cloves, one ounce of ground cinnamon, and one pint of 
vinegar. Boil four hours. — Mrs. James Taylor. 

SPICED GRAPES. 

Pulp seven pounds grapes; let them come to a boil;' squeeze 
out the seeds and then add the skins, with three and one-half 
pounds of sugar, one pint vinegar, one-half ounce each of cloves 
and cinnamon, one tablespoonful allspice. Boil all together fif- 
teen minutes. — Mrs. E. Parkhurst. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

Two gallons green tomatoes, sliced without peeling; twelve 
good-sized onions, sliced; two quarts of vinegar, one cup of sugar, 
two tablespoonsful ground mustard, two tablespoonsful black 
pepper, one tablespoonful allspice, one tablespoonful cloves. Slice 
the tomatoes and pour over them one cup of salt, and let stand 
over night. Drain them, and mix the other ingredients, and let 
tliem boil until tender. Stir often, to prevent sticking. — Mrs. 
Wheeler. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Wash the cucumbers ; make a weak brine of a handful of salt 
to a gallon and a half of water ; when scalding hot pour over the 
cucumbers and cover. Repeat three mornings in succession, 
skimming thoroughly. On the fourth day scald enough vinegar 
to cover, adding a small piece of alum. When hot put in the 
cucumbers, letting them scald, but not boil. Skim them out and 
put them in a jar. Scald fresh vinegar, adding whole spices, to 
taste, and one ounce of white mustard seed, one red pepper, and 
while hot pour over and cover tightly. — Mrs. E. H. Leary. 



57 

PICKLED ONIONS. 

In the month of September choose the small white round 
onions, take off the brown skin; have ready a nice tin stewpan 
of boiling water ; throw in as many onions as will cover the top ; 
as soon as they look clear on the outside take them up as quick 
as possible with a skimmer, and lay them on a clean cloth; cover 
them close with another cloth, and scald some more, and so on. 
Let them lie till cold, tben put them in a jar, or glass bottles with 
wide mouths, and pour over them the best white wine vinegar, 
just hot but not boiling; when cold cover them. Should the skin 
shrivel, peel it off. They should look quite clear. — Mrs. Tapper. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

Six pounds peaches. To every four peaches add three cloves 
and ten pieces of cinnamon two inches long. Steam the peaches 
until soft, then boil together one pint of vinegar and three pounds 
of sugar. Boil the peaches in the syrup about one minute. If 
necessary, boil the syrup a little longer. — Mrs. A. M. Willard. 

PICCALILLI. 

One peck green tomatoes, eight green peppers, eight onions (if 
you like), two tablespoonsful allspice, two tablespoonsful cloves, 
two tablespoonsful cinnamon, one tablespoonful nutmeg. Slice 
the tomatoes, chop the peppers fine (and onions, if you use tbein) ; 
mix together; pour over them one cup of salt, in layers. Let 
stand over night, tben drain dry. Scald two quarts vinegar, one 
pint sugar; put the whole together and boil fifteen minutes. — 
Mrs. E. Parkhurst. 

FRENCH COLD SLAW. 

Chop half a cabbage and two onions together as fine as possi- 
ble, and add the follwoing dressing (cold) just before putting on 
the table : Two teaspoonsf ul of dry mustard, a pinch of cayenne 
pepper, one egg, three heaping teaspoonsf ul of sugar, oue tea- 
spoonful of salt, butter the size of an egg, one-half cup of cream 
or milk, small one-half cup of vinegar. Place on the stove and 
stir until it thickens. — Mrs. Wells. 



58 

DRESSING FOR COLD SLAW. 

Yolks of two raw eggs, four teaspoonsful sugar, one tablespoon- 
fnl butter, three or four tablespoonsful cream, one teaspoonful 
dry mustard, a little salt, one cup of vinegar. Heat all together 
and pour over the cabbage hot. — Mrs. Talcott. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

One head of cabbage, chopped or shaved, four eggs beaten well, 
one and one-half cups vinegar, a piece of butter the size of. an 
egg. Boil these all together, and while hot put in a teaspoonful 
of mustard (raw), salt and pepper to taste, and when cool pour it 
on the cabbage. — Mrs. A. E. Clark. 

ANOTHER. 

One half of a medium-sized cabbage, one dessert- spoonful of 
salt, and a teaspoonful of pepper. Make a dressing of the fol- 
lowing and pour over the cabbage, and stir thoroughly : Two 
eggs, one tablespoonful of oil, two- thirds of a cup of vinegar, on e 
tablespoonful of sugar. Beat this thoroughly, then bring to a 
boil, stirring constantly. — Mrs. Wheeler. 

ANOTHER. 

Two eggs, two tablespoonsful of sugar, two tablespoonsful of 
butter or oil, one-half cup sweet milk, well beaten with salt, pep- 
per, and mustard to taste. Stir into one pint of boiling vinegar, 
and keep stirring until it boils again. Theu cool and pour over 
very fine-sliced cabbage. — Mrs. Hilton. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Boil two good-sized chickens until tender. Bemove the skin, 
bones, and gristle, then cut or chop fine the white and dark meat, 
and add a tablespoonful of salt, mixing it in the chicken thor- 
oughly. Cut off the white part of the celery, and cut it up in the 
same manner, using as much celery as you do chicken. Mix 
them well together, and, if necessary, add more salt. In this 
matter the taste must be the guide. 

Dressing. — Take the yolks of eight hard-boiled eggs. When 
cool mash them fine, adding three or four tablefpoonsful of mixed 



59 

mustard, rubbing them together until they are a smooth paste; 
then add slowly four tablespoonsful of oil, rubbing until the 
mixture is as smooth as cream; then add, slowly, the vinegar, 
until the dressing is about tne consistency of good thick cream. 
Chop the whites of the eggs and add to the dressing, then pour it 
over the salad, mixing it thoroughly and letting it stand an hour 
or so before using. — Miss Gibson. 

RIPE CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Twelve large ripe cucumbers, six white onions and six green 
peppers, chopped fine; mix and stir into this one-half tea- 
cup of salt, and let it stand over night. In the morning drain 
dry, and add to it one-half teacup of mustard seed, one ounce of 
celery seed, and cover with strong vinegar, boiling hot. This 
will be ready for use in one month. — Miss Gibson. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

One head of lettuce, chopped fine and drained, one lobster (two 
pounds), chopped coarse. Take the yolk of one hard-boiled egg 
and rub it fine, then add one raw egg, one teaspoonful of ground 
mustard, same of pepper, one-half cup of melted butter, one-half 
cup of sugar, juice of one lemon, one tablespoonful of vinegar. 
Mix the lettuce and lobster well together and pour over the dress- 
ing. — Mbs. J. B. Lanaed. 

MRS. TALCOTT'S SALAD. 

One quart of well-boiled chicken, chopped; three quarts of cel- 
ery and cabbage, chopped together; season with salt and pepper. 
Yolks of eight hard-boiled eggs mashed to a paste, using a few 
spoonfuls of cold water; a little salt, four tablespoonsful of made 
mustard, four tablespoonsful of melted butter, eight tablespoons- 
ful of vinegar, salad oil or Durkee's salad dressing to suit the 
taste. One-half hour before using, mix the dressing with the 
chicken, celery, and cabbage thoroughly. Cut fine the whites of 
the eight eggs, and mix all together. Cabbage may be used 
without the celery by using more eggs and more of the salad 
dressing. 



60 

POTATO SALAD. 

Cold boiled potatoes, cut in small slices or little squares, one 
little white onion sliced and laid through. 

Dressing. — One small teacupful of vinegar, one well-beaten 
egg, one teaspoonful of sugar and salt, butter the size of an egg. 
Stir this constantly, while cooking, until it thickens, then cool 
and pour over just before serving.— Mrs. C. A. Morse. 

ANOTHER. 

Take six or eight medium sized potatoes, boil them, and when 
cold cut in very thin slices. Boil two eggs, and when cold cut in 
slices also. Put a layer of potatoes in your dish, then a layer of 
the dressing and boiled eggs, and so on until you have exhausted 
your material. 

Dressing for the Salad. — Two eggs (beaten separately, then 
together), two teaspoonsful of made mustard, one teaspoonfvl of 
salt, a dash of cayenne pepper, one teaspoonful of sugar, three 
tablespoonsful of vinegar. Stir these together, then pour into 
the beaten egg, being sure to get it well mixed ; then cook slowly 
until the dressing is the consistency of country cream, beating it 
hard. While it is cooling drop in slowly two tablespoonsful of 
melted butter, and beat until perfectly cold and smooth. When 
ready to pour over the potatoes, put in enough cream to make as 
,thin as may seem desirable. This dressing may be kept for any 
length of time by keeping it air-tight and in a cool place. — Miss 
Hattie Carey. 

I can recommend this recipe for dressing as very fine — one of 
the best I have ever tried. — Miss Gibson. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Two-thirds of a cup of vinegar, two teaspoonsful of mustard, 
one teaspoonful of pepper, two teaspoonsful of sugar, two tea- 
spoonsful of salt, butter size of two eggs, one-half cup of milk. 
Mix the mustard, pepper, sugar, and salt with a little vinegar, 
beat three eggs to a froth, have the milk and vinegar both boil- 
ing; add eggs and seasoning, and remove from the fire. — Mrs. F. 
M. Cobb. 



61 

VEAL SALAD. 

Take two pounds veal, after cooking. When done enough to 
break into pieces, chop after it is cold. Take four boiled eggs, 
beat the yolks up with six tablespoonsful of German mustard. 
Chop the whites with lettuce and celery, to taste; stir all together, 
and add salt the last thing. Ornament the top with celery and 
boiled eggs. — Mrs. Kendall. 



t;;> 



CAKES 



ANGEL CAKE. 

Whites of twelve eggs beaten to a stiff froth, two cups pow- 
dered sugar, one cup flour, one teaspoonful cream tartar. Sift 
flour, sugar, and cream tartar four or five times, and bake sixty 
minutes in an ungreased tin with a tube in the center. — Mrs. 
Clement. 

ANGELS' FOOD. 

Whites of eleven eggs, one and one-half tumblers powdered 
sugar, one tumbler flour, one teaspoonful vanilla, one even tea- 
spoonful cream tartar. Sift flour through flour sieve, then again 
through a much finer one, tbis time having the cream tartar sifted 
with it. Sift the sugar through a fine sieve once. Beat the eggs 
to a stiff froth, then let a second person drop in lightly first 
sugar, then flour, stirring the same way and as little as possible 
so as not to heat the cake; lastly the vanilla. Put immediately 
into an ungreased tin to bake. Do not look into the oven the 
first fifteen minutes. It should then be a light brown. Close 
the door without a jar. Bake in a moderate oven fifty minutes. 
Turn the pan, which should have feet, upside down to cool. Let 
it remain till ready to be used; it can then be removed by loosen- 
ing around the sides with a knife. Break — never cut it. The 
tumbler for measuring should hold two and one-fourth gills. — 
Mrs. G. W. Higgins. 

ANOTHER. 

Put one fourth of a teaspoonful of salt into the whites of ten 
eggs and whip stiff. Beat into them one and one-half cups of 
granulated sugar sifted three times; then gradually add one cup- 
ful of flour that has been sifted six times, and with which one 
teaspoonful of cream tartar has been mixed; beat thoroughly, 
pour into an ungreased pan, and bake sixty minutes in a moder- 
ate oven. Flavor to your taste. Reverse the pan, when done, 
and let cool. — Mrs. Woodard. 



G4 

BANANA CAKE. 

One coffee-cup flour, one teacupful sugar, three eggs, one tea- 
spoonful butter, and three-fourths cup of milk. 

Filling. — Take three bananas, mashed, and put with one tea- 
cupful of powdered sugar. — Mrs. Wheelock. 

BLACK CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, three-fourths cup butter, yolks of five eggs 
well beaten, whites of two eggs beaten to a froth, one half cake 
chocolate (grated), one cup sour milk, one teaspoonful soda, and 
two and one-half cups of flour. 

Filling for Cake. — One pound powdered sugar wet with one 
teacupful cold water; beat the remaining three whites not very 
stiff, add the other half cake of chocolate (grated), boil until very 
thick, then add a grated cocoanut. This makes a large cake. — 
Ida MoFarland. 

BLACK FRUIT CAKE. 

One-fourth pound butter, one pound brown sugar, one pound 
flour, three pounds raisins (seeded and chopped), two pounds cur- 
rants, one pound citron, thirteen eggs (beaten separately), one 
cup Madeira wine, two cups brandy, one cup molasses, one large 
nutmeg (grated) two teaspoonsful cinnamon, one teaspoonful 
each of cloves and mace. Beat butter and sugar, then stir in 
one -fourth of the flour, whip the eggs very stiff and add gradu- 
ally, then remainder of the flour, one-half at a time. After beat- 
ing well add wine, brandy, and spices. Add the fruit gradually 
after mixing well. Bake slowly four hours. — Mrs. D. C. P. 

BREAD CAKE. 

Two coffee-cups dough, two teacups sugar, one-half teacup 
lard, one half teacup butter, two eggs, one teaspoonful soda dis- 
solved in milk or water, one-half teaspoonful cloves, one-half 
teaspoonful cinnamon, one-half teaspoonful allspice, one cup 
raisins, one cup currants. Mix well, raise, and bake. — Mrs. 
M. M. Bridge. 



65 

BRIDGEPORT CAKE. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup milk, three and one- 
half scant cups flour, two teaspoonsful cream tartar, one tea 
spoonful soda, four eggs, and nutmeg. Bake in two pans. — Mrs. 
J. M. Arnold. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup milk, three 
and one half cups flour, three teaspoonsful baking powder, and 
whites of seven eggs. Bake one-half of this like jelly cake ; one- 
half cake of chocolate, grated. Put all the chocolate but three 
tablespoonsful in remainder. Bake like jelly cake. 

Custard for Cake. — Use the yolks of seven eggs, three table- 
spoonsful sugar, three tablespoonsful chocolate, one pint sweet 
milk, two teaspoonsful vanilla. Let this stand in hot water until 
it thickens. When cool, spread between the layers. — M. M. 
Bridge. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One cup butter, one cup cold coffee, one cup raisins, one cup 
currants, two cups brown sugar, three eggs, three cups flour, one 
teaspoonful soda, spices to taste. — Mrs. Wells. 

COMMON CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, two cups sugar, two eggs, one cup sweet 
milk, three cups flour, two teaspoonsful baking powder. — Ida 
McFarland. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

One pint of water with three-fourths of a cup of butter, boiled. 
Stir in one and three-fourths cups flour, then remove from stove 
and add five eggs, one at a time, without having beaten them, 
and one-half teaspoonful soda. Drop on a greased pan and bake, 
making round cakes. 

Filling. — Cook one quart milk, five eggs (well beaten), one 
and one-half cups sugar, two tablespoonsful corn starch flavor. 
When the cakes are cold cut open and fill. You will find them 
nearly hollow for the filling. — Mrs. J. H. Kendall. 



60 

COOKIES. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three eggs, flour enough to 
stiffen, two teaspoonsful baking powder, one teaspoonful ginger, 
and one teaspoonful vanilla. Be sure not to use too much flour. 
It should be as delicate as can possibly be handled. Koll very 
thin and bake quickly.— Mrs. G. W. Higgins. 

ANOTHER. 

Three eggs beaten light, one-half teacup of drippings and but- 
ter mixed, one cup sugar, two tablespoonsful of cream, vanilla to 
flavor, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda, 
and flour enough to roll. When rolled thin sprinkle with sugar, 
roll again, cut and bake in a quick oven. — Mrs. J. H. Kendall. 

DELICIOUS CARAMEL CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, one-half cup milk, one cup sugar, one and 
one-half cups flour, two eggs, and two teaspoonsful Royal baking 
powder. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, one cup of butter beaten to a cream, whites of 
four eggs, one cup milk, two cups flour, and two teaspoonsful of 
baking powder. — Mrs. J. P. Taylor. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One cup sugar, one egg well beaten, one cup sour milk, one 
teaspoonful soda dissolved in the sour milk, four cups sifted flour. 
Let them stand an hour in not too warm a place, then roll and 
cut, frying in hot lard. — L. A. S. 

ANOTHER. 

Two cups sour milk, two cups sugar (scant measure), three 
eggs, three tablespoonsful melted butter, one teaspoonful soda, 
salt, and nutmeg. Fry in hot lard. — Mrs. C. A. Morse. 

ENGLISH WALNUT CAKE. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, two cups 
flour, three-fourths cup sweet milk, whites of four eggs, one tea- 
spoonful cream tartar stirred in the flour, one-half teaspoonful 
so;la dissolved in the milk. Add one cup of meats, chopped fine 
and floured. — E. H. Leary. 



67 

FEATHER CAKE. 

One cup sugar, two tablespoonsful butter; stir butter and sugar 
to a cream; one-half cup sweet milk, one-balf teaspoonful soda, 
one teaspoonful cream tartar; flavor to taste. When used for a 
dessert make a sauce of one cup cream, the whites of four eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, three tablespoonsful sugar. Beat all 
thoroughly together. — Mrs. Leary. 

FIG CAKE. 

One and one-half cups of butter, one cup of sugar, one cup of 
molasses, one cup of sweet milk, four and one-half cups of flour, 
five eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, 
one teaspoonful of cloves, one nutmeg, one pound of raisins, one 
pound of figs. Chop the raisins and figs, rub in flour, and add 
them last. Very good. — Mrs. James Fernald. 

FROSTING. 

Two cups sugar, two-thirds cup of milk, butter size of a 
small egg; boil six minutes; flavor strongly with vanilla; beat 
until cold. Bake three layers, and spread between each layer and 
. over the top. — Mrs. Cobb. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, four eggs, one cup molasses, 
one cup sweet milk, four cups flour, one teaspoonful soda, one 
nutmeg, one teaspoonful of each kind of spice, four cups raisins, 
and one-half pound citron. — Mrs. Wheeler. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup butter, one cup sugar, one cup molasses, one- fourth 
tablespoonful ginger, one teaspoonful soda, and flour to make 
hard. Roll thin and bake. — Mrs. E. Parkhurst. 

ANOTHER. 

One cup of lard, two cups of molasses (New Orleans). Boil 
molasses, and add the lard while hot. When a little cool add one 
even tablespoonful of ginger, one heaping tablespoonful of saler- 
atus, one teaspoonful of salt. Stir till molasses foams; mix very 
stiff; roll only a portion at a time, as too much rolling makes it 
hard. — Mrs. S. J. Wheeler. 



68 
i 

HICKORYNUT CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, two cups flour, one-half cup 
sweet milk, the whites of four eggs, one and one-half teaspoons- 
ful baking powder, one cup nuts, chopped a little, rub them in 
flour and add them last. Make one loaf. — Mrs. James Fernald. 

LEMON CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, two cups sugar, two and one-half cups 
flour, one-half cup corn starch, one cup milk, whites of six eggs, 
two teaspoonsful baking powder. Bake in layers. 

Filling. — Two lemons (grated), two eggs, one arid one-half cups 
sugar. Stir over the fire until thick, then spread your layers. — 
Mrs. Tapper. 

LEMON JELLY CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, three eggs beaten light 
(whites and yolks separately), one-half cup sweet milk, two cups 
flour, two teaspoonsful baking powder; flavor with lemon. This 
will make four layers. 

Felling. — One cup white sugar, one well-beaten egg, one table- 
spoonful butter, rind and juice of one lemon. Boil until thick 
and spread between layers. — Mrs. S. Wheelock. 

MARBLED CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, with three 
even teaspoonsful of baking powder in it, whites of six eggs, and 
one cup milk ; flavor with vanilla. After these are all thoroughly 
mixed take out one and one-half teacupsful, add to it seven 
tablespoon sful of grated chocolate, moistened with milk, and 
flavor with vanilla. Pour a layer of the white cake into the pan, 
then drop the chocolate batter Avith a spoon in spots, and spread 
the remainder of the white cake over it. This is very nice. — 
Mrs. G. W. Higgins. 

MOLASSES CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one cup molasses, one-half cup sour cream, one- 
half cup butter, four eggs, and two and one-half cups of flour. 
Save the whites of two eggs for frosting. Flavor with vanilla 
and bake in jelly tins. — Mrs. W. Moyer. 



69 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

Two and one-half cups molasses, one-half cup brown sugar, 
eighteen tablespoonsful melted butter, six teaspoonsful soda dis- 
solved in six tablespoonsful of water, two teaspoonsful alum dis- 
solved in six tablespoonsful of water, and flour enough to make a 
stiff batter. Boll out and bake. — Mrs. W. Moyer. 

MOLASSES LEMON COOKIES. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup of sour cream 
or milk, one cup of butter or lard, one teaspoonful (heaping) of 
saleratus, one-half teaspoonful of cloves, one tablespoonful of gin- 
ger, the grated rind of one lemon, and two eggs. Mix stiff with 
flour. — Mrs. S. J. Wheeler. 

NEAPOLITAN CAKE. 

White Layers. — Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup 
milk, three cups flour, whites of four eggs, a small teaspoonful 
cream tartar. 

Black Layers. — One cup brown sugar, one-half cup strong cold 
coffee, two eggs, one-half cup butter, one-half cup molasses, two 
and one-half cups flour, one and one-half cups stoned raisins, one 
cup floured currants, one teaspoonful each of soda, cloves, and 
cinnamon, and one-half teaspoonful of mace. Make a frosting 
of the whites of two eggs and some powdered sugar, to put 
between layers, alternating dark, then light. — Mrs. G. W. Hig- 
gins. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup water, one-half cup butter, yolks 
of five eggs, whites of three, one-half teaspoonful soda, one tea- 
spoonful cream tartar, two cups flour, juice of one orange, and 
bake in layers. 

Filling. — Juice and grated rind of one orange, whites of two 
eggs beaten stiff with sugar. Spread between layers.— Mrs. 
Tapper. 



70 



ONE-EGG CAKE. 






One egg (beaten light;, one cup sugar and lump of butter size 
of egg, rubbed to a cream; one cupful sweet milk, two cups flour, 
two teaspoonsful baking powder. — Mrs. J. H. Kendall. 

PLAIN CAKE. 

One-half cup sweet milk, one-half cup butter, one and one-half 
cups sugar, two eggs, two teaspoonsful baking powder, one tea- 
spoonful extract lemon. Bake one hour slowly. — Mrs. E. Park- 
hurst. 

PLUM CAKE. 

One cup butter, one cup sugar, one cup molasses, one-half cup 
milk, three cups flour, two eggs, one-fourth teaspoonful soda, one- 
fourth teaspoonful cloves, cinnamon, and allspice. Put in as 
much chopped raisins, currants, and citron as will make the cake 
well filled with fruit. Bake in one deep pan. — Mrs. Arnold. 

QUINCY POINT CAKE. 

One-half cup molasses, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup butter, 
one-half cup milk, one egg, one cup raisins, one-half teaspoonful 
soda, one teaspoonful cream of tartar. — Mrs. J. P. Taylor. 

ROCKY MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, one half cup butter, the whites of six eggs, 
three cups flour, two teaspoonsful baking powder, one cup 
sweet milk, and bake in three quite deep jelly tins. Make a 
thin icing <5f the whites of three eggs and two cups of powdered 
sugar; let the sugar come to a boil in a half cup of water. After 
the eggs are well beaten, add to the boiling sugar and beat three 
minutes, then ice both sides of each layer. 

Fruit for the Filling. — Six large figs, one cup raisins, one- 
half cup of currants, one-half pound of dates, one-half pound 
of citron ; chop all together very fine, and mix with it a small 
quantity of cocoanut, spreading it between layers. Spread 
the fruit and cocoanut on the top layer, and decorate with a half 
pound of blanched almonds, — Mrs. James Fernald. 



71 

RAILROAD CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, two cups powdered sugar, three cups flour, 
one cup sweet milk, three eggs, two tablespoonsful baking pow- 
der. This is an excellent recipe for layer cake. When baked in 
a loaf use raisins, citron, or lemon. — Miss Gibson. 

SODA BREAD CAKE. 

One egg, one-third cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, 
one cup sour milk, one teaspoonful soda, one cup fruit, three cups 
flour, one teaspoonful each of cloves, cinnamon, and allspice. — 
Mrs. Kendall. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

Two cups of molasses, two and one-half cups of sugar, two eggs, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one heaping teaspoonful of ginger, one- 
half cup of lard, one-half of a cup of butter, two teaspoonsful of 
saleratus, dissolved in two cups of boiling water put in last and 
stirred until it foams. Add flour to make a thick batter. — Mrs. 
S. J. Wheeler. 

ANOTHER. 

One cup molasses, one teaspoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful 
cloves ; put butter size of an egg and one teaspoonful soda into 
a teacup and fill it with hot water; three scant cups of flour. — 
Ida McFarland. 

ANOTHER. 

One cup molasses, one cup warm water, three cups flour, one 
tablespoonful shortening, two teaspoonsful soda, one-half table- 
spoonful ginger, a pinch of salt. Bake in one pan in a quick 
oven. — Mrs. J. M. Arnold. 

ANOTHER. 

One and one-half cups New Orleans molasses, one-half cup 
brown sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup sweet milk, one tea- 
spoonful each of soda and allspice, one half teaspoonful ginger. 
Mix all together thoroughly, then add sifted flour enough to make 
it not quite so stiff as cake — say two and three fourths cupsful. 
Be sure and do not make it too stiff. Bake in a shallow pan. — 
Mrs. G. W. Higgins. 



72 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Three eggs, one cup granulated sugar (sifted fine), one cup 
flour, one teaspoonful baking powder. Beat the eggs well and 
quickly, add the sugar, after sifting, sift the baking powder with 
the flour. Bake in a quick oven. — Mrs. Woodard. 

ANOTHER. 

Beat three eggs two minutes, add one and one-half cups sugar 
and beat five minutes, one cup flour, with one teaspoonful cream 
tartar, and beat two minutes, one-half cup cold water, with one- 
half teaspoonful soda, and beat one minute, the grated rind and 
juice of half a lemon, a little salt, one more cup flour, and beat 
one minute. — Mrs. S. J. Wheeler. 

ANOTHER. 

Four eggs and two cups of sugar, well beaten, three-fourths of 
a cup of boiling water, stirred in quickly; flavor to taste, then 
add two cups of flour and two small teaspoonsful of baking pow- 
der. — Mrs. James Fernald. 

SUGAR GINGERBREAD. 

One egg, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half teaspoon- 
ful cream tartar, one teaspoonful soda or saleratus, two table- 
spoonsful milk, a pinch of salt, flour enough to roll out thin. 
Then cut in squares and bake in that form. — Mrs. J. M. 
Arnold. 

TAYLOR CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup sour milk, two 
cups flour, yolks of four eggs, one-half teaspoonful soda, nutmeg 
to suit taste. — Mrs. J. P. Taylor. 

WAFERS. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one-half cup sweet milk, three 
eggs, one-half nutmeg, one-half teaspoonful soda, juice of one 
lemon, flour enough to make hard, one-half teaspoonful cinna- 
mon. Boll the dough very thin, sprinkle the top with granulated 
sugar, press lightly with rolling-pin, then bake in a quick oven. 
— Mrs. E. Parkhurst. 



Hi 

WALNUT CAKE. 

One pound sugar, one pound flour, one-half pound butter, one 
coffee-cup sweet milk, one-half cup brandy, six eggs, one tea- 
spoonful soda in milk, two teaspoonsful cream tartar in flour, one 
pint walnut meats, one pint raisins. Mix butter and sugar to a 
cream, add yolks, milk, two-thirds of the flour, then whites, then 
flour, then fruits, and the brandy last. — Mrs. J. Spink. 

WHITE CAKE. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup milk or water, the 
whites of six eggs, four cups flour, and two heaping teaspoonsful 
of baking powder. Gold cake made as above, using the yolks 
of the six eggs. — Mrs. C. A. Morse. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

The whites of eleven eggs, one and one-half cups powdered 
sugar, one cup flour, one even teaspoonful cream tartar, one 
teaspoonful vanilla. Sift the sugar and flour three times, put- 
ting the cream tartar in the flour before the last sifting. Beat 
the whites to a stiff froth, then add the sugar, flour, and flavor- 
ing. Bake in a moderate oven fifty minutes, and do not butter 
the tin, which is better to be new. When it is done turn it 
upside down, letting it rest on the corners of something while it 
is cooling.— Miss Gibson. 



75 



PUDDINGS AND PIDS 



APPLE POT-PIE. 

Pare and core four or five apples, place in a kettle or saucepan 
with enough water to nearly cover them, put in a small piece of 
butter. Then make a crust like biscuit and cover over the apples. 
Cut a hole in the top and let the steam out. Cook on the top of 
the stove, slowly, one-half hour. — Mrs. E. Parkhurst. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

One quart flour, two tablespoonsful lard (or half butter is 
better), two cups milk, three teaspoonsful baking powder, sifted 
in the dry flour. Chop the shortening into the flour, and wet up 
quickly just stiff enough to roll into a paste less than half an inch 
thick. Cut into squares, and lay in the center of each a juicy 
tart apple, pared and cored. Bring the corners of the square 
neatly together, and pinch them slightly. Lay in a buttered bak- 
ing pan with the joined edges downward, and bake to a fine brown. 
When done, brush over with beaten egg, and set back in the oven 
to glaze for two or three minutes. Sift powdered sugar over them, 
and eat hot with a rich, sweet sauce. This crust is very nice for 
all kinds of dumplings. — Mrs. S. Wheelock. 

BANANA FLOAT. 

Slice six bananas, sprinkle with sugar, over which pour boiled 
custard made from the yolks of eggs. Use the whites, beaten to 
a froth, and pour on the top. — Mrs. Adams. 

BROWN BETTY PUDDING. 

One cup bread crumbs, two cups chopped apples, one half cup 
sugar, one teaspoonful cinnamon, two tablespoonsful butter, cut 
in small bits. Bake about one-half hour. — Mrs. E. H. Leary. 



76 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Sift one -half of a pint of white corn meal in one quart scalded 
milk; to this add two-thirds of a cup of molasses, salt and cin- 
namon to taste. When cool, add a well-beaten egg and one pint 
of cold milk, and bake in a covered dish, in a moderate oven, 
four hours. — Mrs. C. A. Morse. 

ANOTHER. 

One cup of white corn meal, three pints of milk, and two eggs. 
Take about half the milk, pour it in a spider, and when it comes 
to boiling point pour in the corn meal, which has been wet in 
some of the milk, and stir it into the hot milk, letting it cook 
about five minutes ; then add a cupful of molasses and let it cook 
thoroughly, stirring constantly to keep from burning, about fif- 
teen minutes. When cool, add the rest of the milk, also the eggs, 
well beaten. Butter an earthen pudding dish well, pour in the 
pudding, putting in a generous piece of butter (at least as large 
as an egg) in the center of the dish, and cook one hour. A tea- 
spoonful of grated nutmeg or cinnamon, as preferred. — Mrs. H. 
D. Gibson. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Take one-half of a box of gelatine dissolved in one pint of 
milk. Let it stand on the back of the stove and it will dissolve 
quicker. Then strain it into one pint of cream, sweeten and 
flavor to suit the taste, and beat until it thickens. After arrang- 
ing the sponge cake in your mold, pour over the cream and put 
in a cool place. — Mrs. Taylor. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

Three fourths cup tapioca, one cup dessicated cocoanut, three 
eggs, three large cups sweet milk, one-fourth teaspoonful salt. 
Soak the tapioca over night in enough warm water to cover it. 
Then cook it in a rice-boiler until done, after which add the yolks 
of eggs, beaten well, with one-half cup sugar. Stir thoroughly, 
and turn into an earthen dish. When cool, spread over the top 
a frosting made of the whites of eggs, well beaten, with one 
tablespoonful powdered sugar. Sprinkle top of frosting with one- 
half cup cocoanut, and brown lightly in the oven. — Mrs. M. W. 
Warne. 



77 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

A delicious pudding is made from this recipe : Dry and grate 
two coffee-cups of bread, or break into fine crumbs; mix with it 
nine tablespoonsful of grated chocolate. Heat one quart of milk 
to a boiling point, and pour over the chocolate and bread ; add a 
little salt and a piece of butler, if the milk is not rich. When it 
has cooled, stir in the yolks of four eggs, with sugar to your taste. 
Flavor with vanilla or nutmeg, or not anything. Bake for one 
hour. When done, have beaten (and mixed with powdered sugar) 
the whites of the four eggs and two tablespoonsful of sugar, and 
spread this over the top and set in the oven to brown. This 
makes a dessert sufficient for eight persons. Set the whole in a 
silver pudding-holder and serve on the table. The same quan- 
tity of rolled wheat may be used instead of the bread. A finely- 
flavored pie (apple), cut in thin slices, added to the mixture, is a 
decided improvement. — H. B. M. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One pint flour, one teaspoonful baking powder, a little salt, one 
cup sweet milk, one cup sugar, one egg. Bake in a quick oven. 

Sauce. — One pint flour starch (made in the usual way), one- 
half cup butter, a little salt. Flavor to taste. — Mrs. S. J. 
Wheeler. 

DELICATE PUDDING. 

One-half cup raw rice, boiled in one and one-half cups water. 
When nearly clone, add two cups of milk and cook until the rice 
is soft. Add the yolks of four eggs, beaten with one-half cup 
sugar, a little salt, and one-half teaspoonful vanilla. Take from 
the fire, and stir in the beaten whites of two eggs. Make a 
meiingue of the other two whites, beaten with one-half cup of 
sugar, spread over the top, and put in the oven to brown. — Mrs. 
O. W. Higgins. 

DRAWN PUDDING SAUCE. 

One-half teacup butter, one-half teacup sugar. Stir to a foam, 
put in a tin dish, and add one-half cup hot water. Stir one way 
until it comes to a foam. When done, add a lemon, peeled and 
sliced very thin. — Mrs. E. H. Leary. 



DESSERT. 

For a small f-araily whip one pint of cream until light and 
frothy, add a few drops of rose extract, and turn over pieces of 
sponge cake one-half hour before serving. — Mrs. E. Parkhurst. 

ANOTHER. 

For small family take one-half cup sago, four tart apples, two 
tablespoon sful sugar, one-fourth teaspoonful salt. Add enough 
water to cover. Cook slowly on the top of the stove. To be 
eaten with cream and sugar. — Mrs. E. Parkhurst. 

DUTCH APPLE. 

One pint of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonsful of 
baking powder. Beat one egg, and add three -fourths of a cup of 
milk. Mix the dough soft enough to spread half an inch in a 
buttered baking tin. Pare and cut into eight pieces four apples 
and place them in the dough, the narrow edge down. Sprinkle 
over the whole two tablespoonsful of sugar, and bake in a quick 
oven. 

Sauce. — One cup of sugar, two cups of water put on to boil, 
three teaspoonsful of corn starch, rubbed in a little water and put 
in when boiling. Cook about eight minutes. The juice and rind 
of one lemon, one tablespoonful of butter, and stir until melted, 
then serve. — Mrs. Eastman. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound of raisins (stoned), one pound of currants, one 
pound of suet (chopped fine), one pound of bread crumbs (finely 
grated), three-fourths pound of brown sugar, one-fourth pound of 
mixed candied peel, six large apples (chopped), one teaspoonful 
of mixed spice, one nutmeg, six eggs, salt, and one wine glass of 
brandy, if you like. Tie up very tightly in a cloth and boil six 
hours, then hang up until wanted for dinner, when boil again 
four hours. By following this plan I find the pudding is richer 
and easier turned out. A great deal depends upon tightly com- 
pressing the pudding in the cloth, for if it is loose it will be sod- 
den. A plate should be put in the bottom of the pot. — Mr". 
Tapper. 



79 

FRUIT PUDDING. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of milk, three cups of flour, two 
cups of raisins, and one-half of a cup of butter (scant measure), 
one teaspoonful of soda, and spice to the taste. Boil three 
hours. 

Sauce. — One cup of sugar, one -half of a cup of butter rubbed 
to a cream, one-half of a cup of milk; flavor with wine to taste. 
Excellent. — Mrs. C. A. Morse. 

GERMAN PUFFS. 

Six eggs, leaving out the whites of three for sauce; six table- 
spoonfuls of flour; one tablespoonful of melted butter; one pint 
of milk. Bake in gem pans, in a quick oven. Take them out, 
place on a platter, and pour over them a sauce made as follows : 
One large cup of sugar, and the juice of four or five oranges, 
added to the three whites of eggs well beaten. This is a delicious 
pudding.— Mrs. C. A. Godfrey. 

JOHN'S DELIGHT. 

Two cups chopped bread, one-half cup chopped suet, one-half 
cup molasses, one egg, one cup raisins, one cup currants, a little 
citron or lemon peel, one cup sweet milk, one-half teaspoonful 
soda dissolved in the milk, one-half teaspoonful cloves, one tea- 
spoonful cinnamon, and a pinch of mace and salt. Boil two 
hours in a tin pudding boiler. — Mrs. G. W. Higgins. 

MENNONITE TOAST. 

Beat three eggs well; add one pint sweet milk and a pinch of 
salt. Cut a loaf of bakers' bread into slices about one inch thick, 
cutting off the crust. Dip the slices into the egg and milk and 
drop into hot lard, just as you would doughnuts, until a delicate 
brown. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve hot. This 
makes a very nice dish for dessert, served with pudding sauce. — 
Mrs. G. W. Higgins. 

NANTUCKET CORN PUDDING. 

One dozen and a half of green corn, three pints of milk, one 
tablespoonful of butter, sugar and salt to taste. Plane or grate 



so 

off the corn, add the milk and all the other ingredients, then put 
it in a shallow tin pan or pudding dish, which should be well but- 
tered, and bake in a slow oven one hour and a half. This will 
make a pudding sufficient for a large family. — Mes. Lodge. 

OMELET SOUFFLE. 

Beat the whites of ten eggs to a stiff froth ; the yolks, with 
three-fourths pound of sugar, juice and rind of one lemon; mix 
all together lightly. Butter a dish that will hold it. Bake ten or 
fifteen minutes in a quick oven. Serve with brandy or wine sauce. 
— Mrs. James Spink. 

ORANGE MARMALADE PUDDING. 

One cup fine bread crumbs, one-half cup sugar, one cup of milk 
or cream, four eggs, two teaspoonsful butter, one cup orange or 
other sweet marmalade. Rub the butter and sugar together, add 
the yolks (well beaten), the milk, bread crumbs, and the whites 
beaten to a froth. Put a layer of this in the bottom of a well- 
buttered mold, spread this layer with some pretty stiff marma- 
lade (orange is nicest), then another layer of the mixture, and so 
on until the mold is full, having the custard mixture at the top. 
Bake in a moderate oven about an hour. Turn out of the mold 
upon a dish and serve cold, with sweetened cream or custard. — 
Mrs. S. Wheelock. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

One quart of sweet milk, three eggs well beaten, one-half of a 
loaf of bakers' bread (if a five-cent loaf, use three-fourths 
of a loaf), four heaping tablespoonsful of molasses and a 
little sugar, one pound of raisins (stoned), one-half pound 
currants, a tablespoonful of cinnamon (if it is strong), and a 
good teaspoonful of baking powder, one full cup of flour (it should 
be quite thick), and bake two hours. The fruit, after it is well 
cleansed, should be rubbed in flour thoroughly, and put in the 
last thing, being careful not to stir much. 

Sauce. — One cup of powdered sugar, one-half cup of but- 
ter beaten to a cream; flavor to taste. On the second day this 
pudding can be steamed, and is very nice. Any liquid sauce can 
be used if preferred. — Miss Gibson. 



si 



Six soda crackers, rolled fine, one quart sweet milk, two eggs, 
one-half cup sugar, one-half cup raisins, one-fourth cup molasses, 
one half teaspoonful each of cloves and cinnamon, one-half nut- 
meg (grated), one teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonsful baking pow- 
der. Mix well, place in a buttered dish, and bake slowly two and 
one-half hours. Turn out when cold. To be eaten with or 
without sauce. — Lizzie. 

POP-OVERS. 

One cup of flour, one cup of milk, one pinch of salt; beat thor- 
oughly; heat the pans and butter them; fill about half full with 
batter, and bake in a hot oven. This makes a nice dessert served 
with the following dressing : One cup of sugar, two cups of water 
put on to boil, three teaspoonsful of corn starch, rubbed smooth 
in a little water and put in when boiling the juice, and grated rind 
of one lemon and one tablespoonful of butter. Cook about eight 
minutes. — Miss Gibson. 

PRUNE PUDDING. 

One and one-half pounds prunes. Stew as for sauce, but with 
less syrup; sweeten while cooking. When done, remove the pits. 
When cold, beat the whites of four eggs to a froth; add sugar to 
taste. Take about half and mix with the prunes. Put the 
remainder of meringue on the top. Place in oven to brown. 
Eaten with cream. — Mrs. J. Spink. 

PUFF PASTE PUDDING, With Strawberry Sauce. 

Four eggs, ten tablespoonsful flour, one pint milk, and a little 
salt. The eggs to be beaten separately, and the whites added the 
last thing. Bake one-half hour in a buttered dish. 

Sauce. — One -half cup butter, one cup sugar. Beat to a cream 
and mix with a bowl full of mashed strawberries. — Mrs. Tristram. 

RICE PUDDING, WITHOUT EGGS. 

One-half teacup of rice, two quarts milk, and one cup sugar. 
Bake in a moderately warm oven and cook slowly for three hours. 
Stir two or three times. This is a delicious pudding, and very 
nice to be eaten cold. Convenient to make on Saturday and serve 
for Sunday's dessert. — Mrs. Lamberson. 



82 

SPANISH CREAM. 

One-half box gelatine in one quart sweet milk; heat nearly to 
boiling; then add the yolks of four eggs, with one cup sugar. 
Cook about one-half minute, or long enough to cook the yolks, 
then add the whites, well beaten. Just as you take from the fire 
flavor with lemon. — Lizzie. 

ANOTHER. 

One-half box gelatine and one pint milk, boiled together, yolks 
of three eggs, and five tablespoonsful sugar, beaten together and 
added to the above. Eemove from the stove as soon as it thick- 
ens, then stir in the whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 
Flavor with vanilla. Te be eaten cold, with cream and sugar. — 
Mrs. E. M. Tristram. 

ANOTHER. 

One-half box of Cox's gelatine dissolved in one teacup of hot 
water; let it stand until dissolved. One quart milk, one teacup 
sugar, four eggs. When the milk is scalding hot put in first the, 
dissolved gelatine, then the yolks of the eggs and the sugar, well 
beaten together. Stir until you think the custard has formed, 
then take off and flavor. Stir in the whites of the eggs carefully, 
after having beaten them stiff. Turn into molds. To be eaten 
cold, with sugar and cream. To be made the day before using. 
— Ida McFarland. 

STEAMED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Two cups of corn meal, one cup flour, two and one-half cups 
water, one cup molasses, one-half teaspoonful soda. Steam in 
a pan or pail two and one-half hours. Serve with sauce. — Mrs. 

Taylor. 

SUET PUDDING. 

One cup suet chopped fine, one cup molasses, one cup sweet 
milk, three and one-half cups flour, one and one-half cups raisins, 
one cup currants, one teaspoonful soda. Steam two hours in a 
dish or bag. 

Sauce. — Four tablespoonsful white sugar, two tablespoonsful 
butter, one tablespoonful flour. Beat to a cream, and add one 
gill of boiling water and a little wine, brandy, or flavoring. — 
Edith F. Greene. 



83 



ANOTHER. 

One cup suet, one cup sour milk, one teaspoonful soda, two- 
thirds cup molasses, three cups flour, as much fruit as you like, 
and all kinds of spices. Steam three hours. — Mrs. A. A. 

KlCKETTS. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING, WITH APPLES. 

One medium-sized cup of flake tapioca, washed once or twice, 
as seems necessary. Put in a dish, covering it with cold water, 
putting in a good pinch of salt. Then place it on the back of the 
stove — not where it will boil, but where the water will get warm 
enough to soften the tapioca — letting it stand two hours. Then 
pare and quarter three or four tart apples, according to the size, 
place them in a shallow earthen dish, and cover with the tapioca. 
Bake in a quick oven, browning nicely on top. Serve with cream 
and sugar. Excellent. — Miss Gibson. 

YANKEE PAN (DOWDY). 

Line a deep dish with pie paste ; slice apple as for pie ; fill the 
dish half full of apple, add sugar, nutmeg, and salt to taste. Now 
fill the dish full with apple, and add more sugar, nutmeg, and 
salt. Upper crust should be a little thicker than for common pie. 
Bake in a slow oven about two hours. "When done, pass a knife 
around the edge of the upper crust, remove carefully (top down) 
into a plate, dip out half of the apple and part of the juice into 
the upper crust. Pour half of a cup of thick sweet cream into 
the pie, and add three bits of butter. Slide the upper crust into 
dish (crust down), add half cup more of cream and three bits of 
butter. Cover with a plate and set in a cool place until wanted. 
A delicious dish for dessert. — Mrs. S. J. Wheeler. 

CREAM PIE. 

Put in a farina kettle a scant pint of milk, yolks of two eggs, 
and one heaping tablespoonful of flour. Moisten the flour with 
the yolks of the eggs, and sweeten to taste. Allow this to come 
to a boil. Have ready an under-crust. Pour in the prepared 
cream. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and sweeten 
with six teaspoonsful of sugar. Place over the top, put in the 
oven, and allow to remain until it becomes a light brown. — Mrs. 
0. C. Fordham. 



84 

CARROT PIE. 

Take a raw carrot and grate it, and two eggs and beat them 
light; put in a little salt, and sweeten to the taste; add milk, as 
you do for a custard. Flavor with nutmeg, and bake the same 
as custard. Squash pie made in like manner. — Mrs. Woodard. 

FROSTED CURRANT PIE. 

Two cups ripe currants, mashed fine, one and one-fourth cups 
sugar, one-half cup water, one tablespoonful flour, yolks of two 
eggs. Bake with under crust. Beat the whites of two eggs, add 
a little sugar, spread over the top, set back in the oven and brown. 
— Mrs. J. Spink. 

FROSTED LEMON PIE. 

Take one lemon (using the rind and pulp only), three eggs 
(save the whites for frosting), one cup sugar, one teacup water, 
one and one-half tablespoonsful flour. Beat yolks, flour, and 
sugar together, then add water. Bake with a lower crust. When 
done, take whites of eggs and beat stiff; add one tablespoonful 
sugar. Spread over pie and set in the oven. Let it brown. — 
Mrs. Kendall. 

LEMON PIE. 

One lemon, one cup sugar, yolks of three eggs, two tablespoons- 
ful rolled crackers, butter size of a large walnut. Grate the rind 
of the lemon, and squeeze the juice out; one cup of milk, put in 
the last thing. Bake like a custard pie. 

Frosting. — Beat the whites to a froth, add three tablespoonsful 
pulverized sugar and a little lemon extract. When the pie is 
baked, spread the frosting on the top and brown in the oven.— 
Mrs. Tapper. 

another. 

One lemon, one teacup sugar, one tablespoonful flour dissolved 
in three-fourths of a cup of cold water, three eggs. Grate off the 
yellow part of the lemon, take off the white rind (do not use it), 
take out seeds, and chop the pulp and what you have grated. 
Beat the sugar and yolks of eggs well, stir whites to a froth; add 
the sugar and eggs to the chopped lemon, then the flour and 
water, and last the whites of the eggs. Cover your plate with 
crust, and bake as you would a custard pie. — Ida McFarland. 



85 



ANOTHEB. 

Two soda crackers, or one and one-half Boston crackers, one 
cup of sugar, one-half cup water, one egg, one lemon (the rind 
grated and juice), small piece of butter. Put top crust on. Makes 
one pie. — Mrs. Arnold. 

MOCK MINCE PIE. 

Four soda crackers (pounded fine), one cup sugar, one cup 
molasses, one cup boiling water, one-half cup vinegar, one-half 
cup butter, two eggs, one cup raisins, one teaspoonful of all kinds 
of spices, and a pinch of salt. Make two pies. — Mrs. Arnold. 

MRS. WOODARDS MINCE PIES. 

One quart of beef (chopped), two quarts of apples, two pounds 
of raisins, two pounds of currants, one .pound of citron, three 
lemons, two tablespoonsful of cinnamon, one of allspice, one of 
cloves, two of fine table salt, one-half pint of New Orleans mo- 
lasses, four pints of boiled cider. I get my beef and boil it until 
tender, then take out the bones, gristle and skin, and leave until 
quite cold, then chop fine, then measure. My apples I pare with 
care; when slicing, avoid hulls and seeds, which are so obnox- 
ious in a pie. When chopped fine, I put them in my preserving 
kettle, with the molasses and cider and all the spices. I take my 
lemons, roll and squeeze out all the juice in a glass, and strain; 
pull out the inside of the peel and throw it away, then chop the 
outside very fine and put it in with the rest. My raisins I wash 
clean and stone. I also pick over my currants with care, and 
wash and drain, then dry on a cloth. When I make the pies I 
put a generous piece of butter on the top. The meat should be 
tasted to see if it suits the taste, as it should be very sweet. 

SILVER PIE. 

Boil or grate one large white potato in a cup of cold water. 
Add one cup sugar, white of one egg, juice and rind of one lemon. 
When baked, beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, add 
sugar, spread over the top, and garnish with jelly. — Mrs. E. H. 
Leary. 



87 



CANDIES, 



CANDIED NUTS. 

Same as for creamed dates, but boiled until it becomes brittle 
when tried in a cup of water. Then dip in the nuts. — Edith F. 
Greene. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

Two cups of white sugar and one-half cup of skimmed milk. 
Boil briskly five minutes, stirring constantly. Then stir until 
cold enough to roll into balls; drop in melted chocolate, and set 
in a cool place on a greased paper. — Mrs. J. H. Kendall. 

CREAMED DATES. 

One cup water, two cups sugar, one-half teaspoonful cream tar- 
tar, one-half teaspoonful flavoring. Boil, and try in water if it 
becomes gummy. Take it off and beat until cool, white, and 
sugary. Stone the dates and fill them with the candy. — Edith 
F. Greene. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup of sugar, one spoonful of vin- 
egar. Boil twenty-five minutes, and just before removing from 
the fire put in one-eighth of a teaspoonful of soda — Mrs. F. H. 
Cobb. 

NICE BUTTER TAFFY. 

Three cups of sugar (white coffee-crushed), a little more than 
two cups of New Orleans molasses, one cup of butter. Flavor 
with vanilla. Boil until it will rope in water. Pour in tins and 
cut in squares. This is very nice if made of the best materials. 
— L. A. S. 



88 

NUT CANDY. 

Same rule as for the molasses candy, omitting the soda. Boil 
until it is hard enough to break easily when cool. Spread the 
nuts in the bottom of a shallow tin, and pour over enough candy 
to cover the bottom of the pan. Cool and cut in squares. — Mrs. 
F. H. Cobb. 

PHILADELPHIA WALNUT CANDY. 

Boil one quart of New Orleans molasses. When done, stir in 
one pint of walnut meats, one teaspoonful of soda, and a piece 
of butter the size of a nut. Stir hard until white, then turn off 
into buttered tins. — L. A. S. 

SUGAR CANDY. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of water, and as much cream tar- 
tar as you can take on the point of a knife ; put it into the water 
and sugar, and put it on to cook, letting it boil until it will harden 
in a little cold water, and just before it is done put in a lump of 
butter as large as a walnut. After it begins to cool and you have 
pulled it a little, make a few holes in the candy, putting in the 
vanilla, then finish pulling. — L. A. S. 






an 



Delicacies for tlie Sick 



APPLEADE. 

Cut two large apples in slices, and pour on them one pint of 
boiling water. Strain well, and sweeten to taste. Ice will 
improve it before drinking. 

BARLEY WATER. 

Soak one pint of barley in warm water a few minutes, then 
drain off the water. Put the barley in three quarts of cold water 
and cook slowly until the barley is quite soft. Skim it nicely, 
When cold, flavor with lemon juice. 

BEEF TEA. 

To one pound of lean beef add one coffee-cup of cold water. 
Cut the beef in small pieces, cover, and let it boil slowly for ten 
minutes. Add a V ' '(salt after it is boiled. — Mrs. Welles. 

ANOTHER. 

Li-ce beef tea is made by cutting up tender, juicy beef into 
pieces about one inch square, put into a strong bottle, cork tightly, 
and set iu a kettle of cold water. Boil it about two hours ; the 
nutriment of the meat will be obtained, and the tonic effect will 
be very perceptible. 

ANOTHER. 

• Cut raw lean beef into small pieces and cover with cold water. 
Set it on the back of the stove where it will steep slowly until all 
the juice is extracted from the beef. When wanted, season and 
strain. It wih be very nourishing. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Take part of a chicken, joint it, and cover with water. Let it 
boil, keeping closely covered, until the meat drops from the bones. 
Then skim off the fat, strain, and season with a little salt. Eat 
it, if liked, with rolled crackers. 



90 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 

Warm and squeeeze the berries. Add fco one pint of juice one 
pound of white sugar, one-half ounce of powdered cinnamon, one- 
fourth ounce of mace, two teaspoonsful of cloves. Boil all 
together for fifteen miDutes. Strain the sirup, and to each pint 
add a glass of French brandy. Two or three doses of a table- 
spoonful, or less, will check a diarrhoea. When the attack is vio- 
lent, give a tablespoonful after each discharge until the complaint 
is subdued. It will arrest dysentery, if taken in season, and is a 
pleasant and safe remedy. 

CRACKED WHEAT. 

To one teacupful of cracked wheat add one quart of hot water 
and a little salt. Boil slowly for half an hour ; stir it frequently 
to avoid burning. Serve with cream and sugar, or rich milk. 

MILK PORRIDGE. 

Make a thin batter of white flour and cold milk, and stir it into 
the boiling milk, with a little salt. Let it boil a few minutes, 
stirring constantly. 

OAT MEAL GRUEL. 

Put two large spoonsful of oat meal, wet in cold water, into 
one pint of boiling water. Boil it slowly one-half hour. Skim, 
and add a little salt. Some like sugar and nutmeg. 

OAT MEAL MUSH. 

Sift into boiling water, with a little salt, oat meal to about the 
thickness of common mush. Let it boil one-half hour. Eat 
with milk or cream. 

PORT WINE JELLY. 

Melt in a little warm water one ounce of isinglass, stir it into 
one pint of port wine, adding two ounces of sugar, an ounce of 
gum arabic, and half a nutmeg, grated. Mix all well and boil 
ten minutes. See that the ingredients are well dissolved, then 
strain. When cold it will be ready for use. 



v 91 

RAW EGG. 

Break a fresh egg into a glass and beat until very light. 
Sweeten to taste, and add two tablespoonsful port wine. Stir 
well. 

TO PREPARE AN EGG. 

Beat an egg until very light, add seasoning to the taste, and 
then steam until thoroughly warmed through. This will not take 
more than two minutes. The most delicate stomach will be able 
to digest it. 

VEAL OR MUTTON BROTH. 

To each pound of meat add one quart of cold water; let it boil 
gently, then skim and add salt, and let it simmer about three 
hours. It improves the broth by adding one-half teacupful of 
rice. All the fat should be skimmed off. 



93 



HDUSEHnLD HINTS 



A CURE FOR WHISKY DRINKERS. 

Sulphate of iron, five grains; magnesia, ten grains; pepper- 
mint water, eleven drachms; spirit of nutmeg, one drachm. To 
be taken twice a day. 

COLOGNE. 

Lavender, two drachms ; bergamot, two drachms ; lemon, 
one-half drachm; cinnamon, six drops; rosemary, ten drops; 
musk, ten drops; cologne spirits, one quart. 

COUGH MEDICINE. 

One grain of tartar emetic, one grain of morphine, four ounces 
of water. Take a teaspoonful once in three hours. 

CURE FOR NEURALGIA. 

Horseradish grated and slightly moistened with vinegar and 
put in a bag, or between cloths, and applied to the seat of pain. 

FOR CLEANING STATUARY. 

Tiy calcimine. If not handy, take Indian meal and apply with 
a tooth brush. 

FOR REMOVING GREASE AND CLEANING GLOVES, 
LACES, SATINS, SILKS, ETC. 

One gallon deodorized benzine, one ounce alcohol, one-half 
ounce chloroform, one-half ounce ether, one ounce of lavender 
or oil of cologne. Pour the mixture into a bowl, and rub as in 
water. For large articles rub with a cloth. After cleaning small 
articles, lay them on a folded cloth and rub until dry. Be very 
careful not to use the mixture near the fire or a light of any 
kind. 

TO PREVENT LAMPS FROM SMOKING. 

Dip the wick in strong hot vinegar and dry it before putting it 
in your lamp. 



94 

HOP YEAST. 

One quart boiling water, one square inch of hops. Boil a few 
minutes and strain. Then boil in the hop water four medium- 
sized potatoes, one teaspoonful salt, one tablespoonful sugar. 
Stir in four tablespoonsful flour while boiling. When nearly 
cold, add one-half cup yeast, or one cake of compressed yeast. 
Let it rise, cork tight, and set in a cool place. — Mrs. Willard. 

TOOTHACHE. 

Mix alum and common salt in equal quantities, finely pulver- 
ized. Then wet some cotton (enough to fill the cavity), which 
cover with salt and alum, and apply it. We have the authority 
of those who have tested it for saying it will produce an imme- 
diate result. 

TO CLEAN HOT WATER BOILER. 

One teaspoonful oxalic acid, one and one-half teacupsful water. 
Bub on with a cloth, then rub off with a dry cloth. It will leave 
it bright. 

TO REMOVE RATS. 

Corks cut as thin as sixpence, stewed in grease and placed in 
their way; or dried sponge in small pieces, fried in grease or 
dipped in honey or a little oil of Bhodium; or bird lime, laid in 
their haunts, will stick to their fur and cause their departure. 

WASHING FLUID. 

One box of Babbitt's potash, one ounce of ammonia, one-half 
of an ounce of the salts of tartar. Pour one gallon of boiling 
water slowly over the potash. After standing a few minutes, add 
salts of tartar; when cold, add the ammonia, and cover up tightly. 
Use one teacupful of fluid to three pails of water. Put the 
clothes in and soak over night. In the morning wring them out 
and put them in the boiler with cold water and two -thirds of a bar 
of soap, sliced thin. Boil fifteen minutes, then rub and rinse 
well. I use no blueing. The clothes will look white and nice if 
done according to directions, and will not take half as much 
time as the old way. Sometimes I add more fluid for the second 
boiler, and put the clothes in cold. 



95 



Tli anks giving Dinner 



MRS. WOODARD'S BILL OF FARE. 

Oyster soup; roast turkey, stuffed; a pair of chickens, stuffed, 
and boiled with cabbage and one-balf pound of lean salt pork; 
a chicken pie, with pastry crust; potatoes, mashed; turnips; 
squash ; onions ; gravy ; apple and cranberry sauce ; oyster sauce ; 
brown and white bread; plum and plain pudding, with sweet 
sauce; mince, apple, and pumpkin pies; cheese; fruit and raised 
cake ; uuts and raisins. 

[P. S. — The chickens are prepared in the same manner as you 
would to roast them. Fill the chickens, and sew them up close. 
Boil them two and one-half hours, or until tender.] 

Foe Turnip Sauce. — Boil your turnips and mash them fine; 
add the same amount of mealy mashed potatoes; season with 
pepper and salt; moisten with cream and butter. 

Squash. — Boil, peel, and squeeze it dry in a cloth; mash it 
fine; season it with salt, pepper, and butter. 

Onions. — Boil in water until nearly done. Pour off tbe water, 
add a little milk and water, boil tender, and serve by adding pep- 
per, salt, and butter. 

Gravy Sauce. — Boil the neck, wings, gizzard, liver, and heart 
of the fowls till tender; chop it all fine, add two or three pounded 
crackers, a piece of butter, and a little flour thickening; season 
with pepper and salt. 

Cranberry Sauce. — Wash and stew your cranberries in water, 
and add almost their weight in wbite sugar just before you take 
tbem from the fire. 

If prepared properly this will make a nice dinner. 



INDEX 



SOUPS. 

PAGE 

Advice in Making Soup Stock 5 

Potato Soup 5 

Potato Soup, with Stock .... 6 

"White Swiss Soup 6 

Tomato Soup 6 

Black Bean Soup 7 

Bean Soup 8 

Barley Soup 8 

Vegetable Soup 8 

Gumbo Soup 9 

Noodle Soup 9 

Dumplings for Soup 9 

Milk Soup 10 

Mock Turtle Soup 10 

Potage-aux Poireaux 10 

Oyster Soup 11 

MEATS. 

Eoast Beef 13 

Koast Veal 13 

Smothered Beef and Onions . 13 

Lamb or Mutton Koast 13 

Eoast Pork 14 

Boast Ham 14 

Baked Tenderloin 14 

Toad in the Hole 14 

Beefst'k smothered in oysters 14 

Fried Liver 14 

Fried Veal 15 

To Fry Veal Cutlets 15 

Hot Pot 15 

Cooked Corn Beef 15 

Boiled Leg of Mutton with 

Caper Sauce 15 

FOWLS. 

Chicken Pot Pie 19 

Broiled Quail 19 

Smothered Chicken 20 

Jellied Chicken 20 

Eoast Turkey 20 

Chicken Pie 20 

Fricasseed Chicken 21 



FISH. 

PAGE 

How to Cook Fish 23 

Codfish 23 

Boiled Salt Mackerel 23 

Fried Eels 24 

Fried Salt Mackerel 24 

Boiled Fish, Parsley Sauce . 24 
Quick and Novel way to Fresh- 
en Salt Mackerel 24 

Baked Whitefish 24 

Baked Salt Codfish 24 

Baked Fresh Trout 25 

Fresh Haddock ChoAvder .... 25 

Clam Chowder 25 

Fresh Fish Chowder 26 

OYSTERS. 

Fried Oysters 29 

Eoast Oysters 29 

Escaloped Oysters 29 

Fricassee Oysters 30 

Oyster Patties 30 

Oyster Chowder 30 

VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes, a la Creme 33 

Escaloped Potatoes 33 

Escaloped Tomatoes 33 

Baked Tomatoes 34 

Fried Tomatoes 34 

Macaroni 34 

Boston Baked Beans 34 

Baked Beans 35 

Egg Plant 35 

Asparagus and Eggs 35 

Escaloped Onions 86 

ENTREES. 

Call's Liver and Heart Hash, 39 

Force Meat Balls 39 

Fricasseed Tripe 39 

Sweetbreads served with Peas 39 

Fried Sweetbreads 40 

Mock Duck 40 



98 



PAGE 

Veal Loaf 40 

Pressed Beef 40 

Beef Pie 41 

Veal Pie 41 

White Hash 41 

Potato Puff 41 

Corn Oysters 42 

Clam Fritters 42 

Green Corn Fritters 42 

BREADS. 

Maryland Bread . . 45 - 

Corn Bread 45 

Mother's Brown Bread 45 

Steamed Brown Bread 45 

Boston Brown Bread 46 

Flora's Graham Bread 46 

Graham Bread 46 

Graham Gems 46 

Muffins 46 

Muffins raised with yeast 47 

Peculiars.. 47 

Johnny Cake 47 

Sally Lunn 47 

Pancakes for Breakfast 47 

CROQUETTS. 

Chicken Croquetts 49 

Bice Croquetts 49 

Fish Croquetts 49 

Potato Bissoles 49 

Potato Croquetts 50 

EGGS. 

Scrambled Eggs 51 

Baked Omelet 51 

Egg Omelet 51 

RELISHES. 

Pickled Oysters 53 

Chow-Chow 53 

Bordeaux Sauce 54 

Chili Sauce 54 

Tomato Sauce 54 

Shirley Sauce 55 

Mint Sauce 55 

Tomato Catsup 55 

Cherry Catsup 56 

Spiced Gooseberries 56 

Spiced Grapes . . 56 

Green Tomato Pickles 56 

Cucumber Pickles 56 

Pickled Onions 57 

Pickled Peaches 57 

Piccalilli 57 

French Cold Slaw 57 



Dressing for Cold Slaw 58 

Cal ibage Salad 58 

Chicken Salad 58 

Ripe Cucumber Salad 59 

Lobster Salad 59 

Mrs. Talcott's Salad 59 

Potato Salad 60 

Salad Dressing 60 

Veal Salad 61 

CAKES. 

Angel Cake 63 

Angel's Food 63 

Banana Cake 64 

Black Chocolate Cake 64 

Black Fruit Cake 64 

Bread Cake 64 

Bridgeport Cake 65 

Chocolate Cake 65 

Coffee Cake 65 

Common Cake 65 

Cream Puffs . 65 

Cookies 66 

Delicious Caramel Cake 66 

Delicate Cake 66 

Doughnuts 66 

English Walnut Cake 66 

Feather Cake 67 

Fig Cake 67 

Frosting 67 

FruitCake 67 

Ginger Snaps 67 

Hickory Nut Cake 68 

Lemon Cake 68 

Lemon Jelly Cake 68 

Marbled Chocolate Cake .... 68 

Molasses Cake 68 

Molasses Cookies 69 

Molasses Lemon Cookies .... 69 

Napolitau Cake 69 

Orange Cake 69 

One Egg Cake 70 

Plain Cake 70 

Plum Cake 70 

Quincy Point Cake 70 

Rocky Mountain Cake 70 

Railroad Cake 71 

Soda Bread Cake 71 

Soft Gingerbread 71 

Sponge Cake 72 

Sugar Gingerbread 72 

Taylor Cake 72 

Wafers 72 

Walnut Cake 73 

White Cake 73 

White Sponge Cake 73 



99 



Puddings and Fies. 

I'AGE 

Apple Pot Pie 75 

Baked Apple Dumplings 7"> 

Banana Float 75 

Brown Betty Pudding 75 

Baked Indian Pudding 76 

Charlotte Russe 76 

Coeoanut Pudding. 76 

Chocolate Pudding 77 

Cottage Pudding 77 

Delicate Pudding 77 

Drawn Pudding Sauce 77 

Dessert 7S 

Dutch Apple 78 

English Plum Pudding 78 

Fruit Pudding 7?) 

German Puffs 79 

John's Delight 79 

Mennonite Toast 79 

Nantucket Corn Pudding. ... 79 

Omelet Souffle 80 

Orange Marmalade Pudding. 80 

Plum Pudding 80 

Pop-Overs 81 

Prune Pudding 81 

Puff Paste Pudding, with 

[Strawberry Sauce 81 

Rice Pudding, without Eggs. 81 

Spanish Cream 82 

Steamed Indian Pudding .... 82 

Suet Pudding 82 

Tapioca Pudding, with Apples 83 

Yankee Pan Dowdv 83 

Cream Pie ' 83 

Carrot Pie 84 

Frosted Currant Pie 84 

Frosted Lemon Pic 84 

Lemon Pie 84 

Mock Mince Pie 85 

Mrs. Woodard's Mince Pies. . 85 

Silver Pie. 85 



CANDIES. 

PAGE 

Candied Nuts 87 

Chocolate Creams 87 

Creamed Dates 87 

Molasses Candy. 87 

Nice Butter Taffy 87 

Nut Candy 88 

Philadelphia 'Walnut Candy . . 88 
Sugar Candy 88 

Delicacies for the Sick. 

Appleade 89 

Barlev Water 89 

Beef Tea 89 

Chicken Broth 89 

Blackberry Cordial 90 

Cracked Wheat 90 

Milk Porridge 90 

Oat Meal Gruel 00 

Oat Meal Mush 90 

Port Wine Jelly 90 

Raw Egg 91 

To Prepare an Egg 91 

Veal or Mutton Broth 91 

HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

A Cure for Whisky Drinkers. 93 

Cologne 93 

Cough Medicine 93 

Cure for Neuralgia 93 

For Cleaning Statuary 93 

For Removing Grease, &c. . . 98 

To Prevent Lamps Smoking. 93 

Hop Yeast 94 

Toothache 94 

To Clean Hot Water Boilers. 94 

To Remove Rats 94 

Washing Fluid 94 

Bill of Fare for Thanksgiving 
Dinner 95 



