^0Q'^^ » X? 




ifXft? 



i^fi 



A^f? lis 






COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



BY THE SAME AUTHOR. 



LITTLE DINNERS. 

Sixteenth Edition, Cloth, price 2s, 6d. 

"We ought not to omit the mention of several very good recipes which Mrs 
Hooper vouchsafes us, e.g., rump-steak pudding, sheep's head Scotch fashion, 
devilled fowl, rich plum pudding, neck of venison cooked in a V oven, how to 
cook whitebait, and how to 'scollop' oysters." — Saturday Revieiv. 

" A very excellent little book. . . . Ought to be recommended as exceedingly 
useful, and as a capital help to any housekeeper."— Frt«i/> Fair. 

"Very numerous recipes in the volume are composed with a due regard to the 
principles of economy, while they are thoroughly appetising "—Morning Post. 

" Shows us how to serve up 'a little dinner,' such as a philosopher might offer 
a monarch— good, varied, in good taste, and cheap. Exactly what the young 
English wife wishes to know, and what the ordinary cookery-book does not teach 
her." — Queen. 

"Containing much useful m'ioxms.novi.."— Court Journal. 



EVERY-DAY MEALS. 

BEING ECONQMICAL AND WHOLESOME RECIPES FOR 
hREAKFAST, LUNCHEON, AND SUPPER. 

Fourth Edition. Croivn Svo. Cloth, price 2s. 6d. 

" Our already deep obligations to Miss Hooper are weightily increased by this 
excellent and practical little book." — Spectator. 

" Miss Hooper, as usual, does her work thoroughly and simply. _ She not only 
tells the mistress of the house what to provide, but where to get it, and how to 
prepare it, and the result is a handbook useful to all wives and mothers anxious 
for their husband's comfort or children's health."— £jra;«/«fr. 



LONDON: 
Kegan Paul, Trench & Co., i Paternoster Square. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS, 

PERSONS OF DELICATE DIGESTION, , 
AND FOR CHILDREA. 



MARY HOOPER, 

DINNERS," "EVERV-DAY MEi 
NOMY, CRYSTAL PALACE SCt 

CENTRAL LIB 



AUTHOR OF "little DINNERS," " EVERY-DAY MEALS," ETC., 
PROFESSOR OF DOMESTIC ECONOMY, CRYSTAL PALACE SCHOOL OF ART, ETC. 



THIRD EDITION. 



J 

London : 

Kegan Paul, Trench & Co., i Paternoster Square. 

i88-.. 






^ ^ , u b 






(A// rights reserved.) 




PREFACE, 



The great importance of well-chosen and well- 
cooked food, as a means not only of preserving but 
of restoring health, is now fully recognised, and 
" Dr Diet and Kitchen Physic " are acknowledged 
as the best friends of the medical profession. Yet 
there is no more anxious time for a doctor than 
when he hands over his patient to the good offices 
of the cook, for, as a celebrated culinary writer has 
said, " he knows how often the skill of the pains- 
taking physician is counteracted by the want of 
corresponding attention to the preparation of food, 
and the poor patient, instead of deriving nourish- 
ment, is distressed by indigestion." 



VI PREFACE, 

Thus it is that gruel, which in former times was 
said to "gratify nature" and to be the king of 
spoon meats and the queen of soups, and which 
played so important a part in the sick dietary, has 
fallen into disrepute. The fact is that in these days 
few persons know gruel except as manufactured 
from the starchy preparations the chief merits of 
which appear to be that they "can be made in ten 
minutes;" and it is, therefore, no wonder so much 
dislike is expressed for it. 

The delicious, creamy, nourishing, one may 
almost say elegant, gruel, made by the hands of 
our grandmothers for their invalids, is now hardly 
known among us. It was either made from groats, 
crushed in the household mortar, or bought speci- 
ally prepared, and known as "Embden groats," 
and was in either case admirably suited for the 
purpose. After many hours' boiling the gruel was 
carefully strained, and was then ready to be served 
plain, or flavoured, as the case might require. We 
can hardly wonder in these days that gruel is so 
unpopular, being what it is— a "patent" hasty 



PREFACE. vii 



compound manufactured to suit the slovenly and 
impatient culinary habits of the period— or that 
doctors have almost ceased to order it as an 
especially useful and restorative diet. 

The present writer well remembers her mother, 
whilst relating to her the sorrow and distress of the 
nation at the premature death of the Princess 
Charlotte of Wales, adding it was reported that the 
Princess shivered when a basin of gruel was pre- 
sented to her, as though such antipathy was a 
measure of the hopelessness of her case. But it is 
no bad symptom now when ladies shiver at the 
sio-ht of gruel, but rather an indication of a true 
taste which revolts against impure and badly pre- 
pared articles of diet. Gruel made as it ought to 
be, is rarely disliked, and is more nourishing, and 
in many cases to be preferred, to arrowroot— an 
expensive thing, and one most difficult to procure 
genuine. 

Sick-room cookery proper is usually held to 
consist only of that which nurses are fond of calling 
" slops," without at all considering how fitly they 



PREFACE. 



describe the beef-tea, broth, and gruel they 
administer to their helpless patients. It is because 
it is found so impossible to get these things, and 
especially beef-tea, properly made, that recourse is 
largely had in many households to the concentrated 
essences and preparations of commerce. That these 
do not supply the place of home-made delicacies it 
is hardly necessary to insist, and a good nurse will 
devise means to supply the diet, on which, it may 
be, the life of her patient depends. 

The invalid's cook will always pay great attention 
to the cleanliness of her batterie de cuisine, and more 
especially to the state of the stewpans. Copper 
stewpans well tinned and scrupulously clean are for 
all reasons, the best, but those of iron lined with 
enamel answer well. In every house, one or two 
stewpans should be reserved for gruel and other 
delicate preparations, and on no account should 
they be brought into general use. 

There is, no doubt, some difficulty in catering for 
invalids, especially those in the convalescent staee 
when the appetite is generally capricious, and the 



PREFACE. ix 



digestion weak. The diet for such patients must be 
both light and nutritious, as varied as possible, and 
served with the utmost skill and taste. It is in the 
interest of the convalescent and of the confirmed 
invalid that the chapters on "Fish" and "Little 
Dishes " have been carefully prepared. In some 
cases the dainties required for invalids are beyond 
the reach of their friends, and for these some 
inexpensive recipes are given. 

In these days when dyspepsia is so prevalent a 
malady, bringing in its train others of even a more 
serious character, it is of the first importance to 
study dietetical laws and the method of making 
food of all kinds easy of digestion. For variety of 
diet is a pressing need both of the healthy, that 
they may avoid the evils of dyspepsia, and of those 
already dyspeptic, as a means of relief and proba- 
ble cure. It should be borne in mind, that careful 
cooking will render almost any edible substance 
fit for feeble digestions, and the way to do this is 
pointed out in the following recipes. 

The quantities given for dishes for invalids are 



PREFACE. 



in all cases small, generally not more than will 
be consumed at one meal, as it is seldom desirable 
to present the same dish twice consecutively to 
people who are in delicate health. 

Puddings, and other diet for children, have re- 
ceived careful consideration, and it is hoped, by 
following the given directions, the objection which 
many children have to puddings made of farinace- 
ous substances may be obviated. 

In cases where the invalid's food cannot be 
properly supplied from the kitchen, a lady by the 
aid of a small gas stove can readily prepare it. 
And every lady should study, not only theoretically, 
but practically, the art of cookery for invalids, for 
none know how soon skill in it may be called into 
requisition and go far to save or prolong some dear 
and valuable life. " Kitchen physic " will never be 
so efficacious as when the invalid knows it has 
been prepared by loving hands. The mother, 
wife, or daughter who trusts these duties to no 
lower love than her own, will surely receive the 
dearest reward in the knowledge that the pleasure 



PREFACE, 



with which food is eaten enhances its value in 

every sense. 

Every recipe in this book has been carefully 

prepared and tested by the writer, who having had 

long experience in the sick-room, and in the wants 

of invalids, has been able fully to prove their use 

and value. 

MARY HOOPER. 

November 15, 1875- 




CONTENTS. 





GRUEL, &C. 


Caudle, . 
Oatmeal Gruel, 
Oatmeal Gruel, 
Barley Gruel, 
Barley Water, 
Boiled Flour G 


PAGE 

2 

3 

[^Scotch Recipe) 3 

4 
5 

•uel, . 5 


Baked Flour, . 
Restorative Gniel, 
Onion Gruel, 
Arro\vroot, 
Oatmeal Porridge, 



PAGE 
6 

7 
7 



BEEF-TEA, BROTH, &c., &c 



Beef Tea, 


12 


MUk Panada, . 


25 


Beef Jelly, 


14 


Broth Panada, 


25 


Cold Dra\vn Beef Tea, 


15 


Chicken Panada, 


25 


Mutton Broth, 


16 


Meat Lozenges, 


26 


Veal Broth, 


18 


Milk Soup, 


26 


Chicken Broth, 


19 


Bread Soup, 


27 


Cheap Broth, 


20 


Egg Soup, 


28 


Grav)' Soup, 


21 


Oatmeal Soup, 


28 


White Soup, . 


22 


Harricot Soup, 


29 


Mock Turtle, . 


23 


Parsnip Soup, 


30 


Panada, 


24 


Artichoke Soup, 


. 30 


Water Panada, 


25 







xiv 


CONTENTS. 






BEVERAGES. 




Beer, Wines, Spirits, 


PAGE 
31 


1 
Suet Milk, 


PAGE 

46 


Tea, . . . 


34 


Gum Arabic Milk, 


46 


Coffee, . 


. 36 


Gum Arabic Water, 


47 


Cocoa, 


. 38 


Linseed Tea, 


47 


Water, . 


39 


Almond Milk, 


48 


Lemonade, 


40 


Red Currant Syrup, . 


48 


Black Currant Jam Water 


42 


Raspberry Vinegar, . 


49 


Apple Water, . 


42 


White Wine Whey, . 


50 


Tamarind Water, 


43 


Treacle Posset, 


50 


Oatmeal Water, 


43 


Orange Tonic, . , 


50 


Rice Water, . 


43 


Ginger Cordial, 


51 


Toast Water, . 


44 


Claret Cup, 


51 


Egg Drinks, 


45 


Mulled Ciaret, 


52 


Thick Milk, . 


46 








EGGS. 




To Boil an Egg, 


53 Eggs in Gravy, 


55 


To Poach an Egg, . 


54 Omelet, 


56 


Eggs Sur le plat, 


54 j Omelet Soufflee, 


56 


Scrambled Eggs, 


55 i 


German Omelets, 


J" 
57 



FISH. 



Boiled Sole, . 


61 


Fillets of Mackerel, 


69 


Baked Soles, . 


62 


Fillets of Plaice, 


70 


Fried Sole, 


62 


Scalloped Oysters, . 


71 


Fried Fillets of Sole, 


■ 63 


Oyster Fritters, 


7^ 


Fillets of Sole in Gravy, 


• 63 


Butter Sauce, 


72 


Whiting, . 


. 64 


Parsley Sauce, 


72 


Cod Cutlets, . 


65 


Caper Sauce, . 


75 


Fried Herrings, 


66 


Sharp Egg Sauce, . 


73 


Rolled Herrings, 


66 


White Sauce, . 


74 


Baked Haddock, 


67 


Anchovy Relish, 


74 



CONTENTS. 



LITTLE DISHES. 



Mutton Chops, 


PAGE 

77 


Minced Meat, 


Fillets of Mutton Cutlets, 


78 


Calf's Sweetbread, 


Neck of Mutton Cutlets, . 


79 


Calf s Liver Saute 


Loin of Mutton Cutlets, . 


80 


Lamb's Sweetbreads, 


Shoulder of Mutton Cutlets, 


81 


Sheep's Brains, 


Stewed Mutton Chop, 


81 


Brain Cakes, . 


Lamb Cutlets, . 


82 


Quenelles, 


Beef Cutlets, . 


83 


Chickens, . . . . 


Beef Cutlet Saute, . 


84 


Stewed Partridge, . 


Stewed Beef, . 


85 


Stewed Pigeon, 


Tripe, .... 


85 


Fricassee of Rabbit, 


VealCutiet, . 


86 


Croquettes, 


VEGET 


ABLES. 


Fried Potatoes, 


lOI 


Sea Kale, 


Potato Croquettes, . 


102 


Onions, 




Greens, .... 


103 


Vegetable Marrow, 




Cauliflower, 


104 


Stewed Endive, 




Spinach, .... 


104 


Stewed Water-cress, 




Asparagus, 


105 


Vegetable Puree, 




French Beans, 


105 


Tomato Sauce, 





PUDDINGS FOR INVALIDS AND CHILDREN 



Savoury Rice Pudding, 
Savoury Macaroni Pudding, 
Savoury Bread Pudding, . 
Brown Biscuit Pudding, . 
Cheese, Macaroni, . 
Plain Rice Pudding, 
Rice CustardPudding, 
Rice Boiled with Sweet Sauce, 
Sweet Sauce, . 
Rice Milk, 



"3 
113 
114 
114 

115 
116 
116 
116 
117 
117 



Rice Croquettes, 
Ground Rice Pudding, 
Semolina Pudding, 
French Tapioca Pudding, 
Sweet Macaroni, 
Sherry Macaroni, 
Sherry Sponge, Pudding, 
Pastine Pudding, 
Rusk Pudding, 
Biscuit Pudding, 



xvi 


CONTENTS. 






PAGE 




PAGE 


Crumb Pudding. 


123 


German Pudding, 


132 


Custard Pudding, 


124 


Rice Pudding without Milk, 132 


Hasty Pudding, 


125 


Bread Pudding, 


133 


Alexandra Pudding, 


125 


Indian Cornflour Pudding, 


133 


Lemon Souffle, 


126 


Oatmeal Pudding, . 


134 


Lemon Pudding, 


127 


Baked Apples, 


135 


Stonleigh Pudding, , 


128 


Apple Souffle, 


135 


Baked Batter Pudding, . 


128 


Apple Fool, 


135 


Fig Pudding . 


129 


Stewed Apples and Rice, 


136 


Plum Pudding 


129 


Apple Charlotte, 


136 


Baked Suet Crust, . 


130 


Stewed Fruits, 


137 


Fruit Pudding, . 


131 


Croustades, with Stewed Fruit, 138 


Layer Pudding, 


. 131 


Stewed Prunes, 


139 


JELLIES 


, CREAMS, ICES. &c. 




Wine Jelly, 


140 ; 


Victoria Pudding, 


148 


Hartshorn Jelly, 


142 


Custard, Cream, 


149 


Ivory Dust Jelly, 


142 


Crystal Palace Cream , 


. 149 


Iceland Moss Jelly, . 


. 143 


Lemon Cream, 


150 


Madeira Jelly, . 


143 


Ices, 


151 


Lemon Sponge, 


143 


Lemon Water, Ice, . 


. 151 


Tapioca Jelly, . 


144 


Ice Cream, 


. 152 


Blanc Mange, 


145 


Flavourings for Puddings 


153 


French Rice Cream, 


146 


Apple, Marmalade, . 


• 155 


French Custard, 


146 


Orange Marmalade, 


. 155 


Shape of Rice, 


147 


Preserved Strawberries, 


. 157 


Rice Cream, 


148 






BRI 


:AD and CAKES. 




Household Bread. . 


. 160 


Ginger Bread, 


. 165 


Rolls, 


. 161 


Sponge Cake, . 


. 165 


Tea Cakes, 


. 161 


Geneva Cakes, 


. 166 


Sweet Bread Cake, . 


. 162 


Arrowroot Biscuits, . 


. 167 


Unfermented Bread, 


. 162 


Ginger Biscuits, 


. 167 


Baking Powder, 


. 163 


Rice Cakes, 


. 168 


Lunch Cake, 


. 164 







GRUEL &LC. 



Robinson's Embden groats prepared by Keen. 
Robinson, and Bellville, are the only kind of which 
gruel can be properly made. They are entirely 
free from the acrid flavour which is so disagreeable 
in inferior preparations of oat-meal, and make a 
most nourishing and digestible gruel. Have 
either a very nice bright tin saucepan or a well- 
tinned and perfectly clean copper stewpan ; put in 
cold water, and to every quart allow two ounces 
of groats. Let the gruel boil gently for four hours, 
stirring frequently to prevent any sticking to the 
stewpan ; a little water may be added from time 
to time so as to keep the original quantity. Have 
a hair sieve of a size to stand conveniently just 
inside the rim of a basin. When a large quantity 
of gruel is required it is a good plan to have four 
strips of wood nailed together to form a rest for 



A 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



the strainer so that it can stand over large basins 

without touching the contents. Use two wooden 

or silver spoons, one to rub the gruel through the 

sieve, the other to remove that which hangs 

beneath it. Do not use the first spoon for the 

latter part of the operation, as by so doing you may 

get some of the grain into the gruel and destroy its 

smoothness. When you have rubbed as much as 

possible through the sieve, beat the gruel until 

quite smooth, it should be as thick as good cream ; 

put it into a clean stewpan, let it boil, and serve 

plain ; or as follows : beat up the yolk of an ^g%, 

pour the boiling gruel on to it, serve either with 

salt or sugar, and, if allowed, a little wine or brandy. 

Milk or cream may be added In any proportion, 

but should not be allowed to boil. Beef-tea or 

extract of beef may also be used in cases where 

savoury food is preferred. 

Caudle. 

Prepare the Gruel, as in the foregoing recipe ; it 
should be thick. Whilst boiling hot stir in to each 
pint a table-spoonful of brandy, a wine glass of 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



sherry, sugar to taste, and a grate of nutmeg and 
ginger. 

For the poor ale may be substituted for wine, and 
in cases where it is desirable a little gin be added. 

Oatmeal Gruel. 

This is not adapted to cases of great weakness, 
but is useful in temporary illness, and is much in 
favour with the poor in rural districts. Unless 
long and properly boiled, oatmeal gruel is very 
indigestible. 

Take two tablespoonfuls of fine Scotch oatmeal, 
and mix it smooth in two or three tablespoonfuls 
of cold water ; stir it in to a pint and a half of milk 
or water, boil gently for at least an hour, stirring 
frequently. If the digestion of the patient is weak, 
the gruel should be strained before serving. 

Oatmeal Gruel. 

{Scotch Recipe.) 

Put two ounces of oatmeal in a bowl, pour on it 
half a pint of cold water, stir a little, let it stand a 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



minute, then pour half a pint of boihng water over 
the mixture, stirring quickly as you pour. Next 
pour the gruel through a strainer into a small 
saucepan, taking care the rough part of the meal 
remains in the strainer. Boil the gruel ten minutes, 
add to it a tablespoonful of sugar and a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut, and serve. 

Barley Gruel. 

Barley Gruel is an important article in the 
mvalid's dietary. It is generally made too hastily, 
and thus much of its virtue is lost. 

Take two ounces of pearl barley, wash in clean 
cold water, then boil it for five minutes in a pint of 
water. Pour this water away, and put a quart of 
boiling water to the barley ; let it boil for three 
hours, strain, and add any flavour; if that of lemon 
peel is desired, cut it very thinly, and infuse for ten 
minutes in enough cold water to cover it— stir the 
liquid into the barley gruel. Equal quantities of 
milk and barley gruel make a very nourishing drink, 
especially useful in feverish cases. Barley gruel 
should not be mixed with milk or syrup before 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



required for use, as in a warm atmosphere it under- 
goes changes, and sometimes slightly ferments. 

Barley Water. 

* 

Wash two ounces of fine pearl barley, boil it for 
five minutes in a pint of water, strain, put the 
barley into a jug, pour over it a quart of boiling 
water, cover it close with a cloth, let it stand until 
cold, then stir it up, strain, and keep ready for use. 

Boiled Flour Gruel. 

Gruel made from boiled flour is very delicate, 
and is suited to cases of great weakness. To pre- 
pare the flour, press into a pudding basin with a 
wooden spoon as much of the best white flour as 
possible, which must be again and again beaten 
down and pressed with the fingers until a hard com- 
pact mass is formed. When no more can be pressed 
into the basin, tie it over with a cloth in the same 
manner as a pudding, and allow it to boil continu- 
ously for twelve hours. When taken up remove 
the cloth, and let the flour stand in the basin 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS, 



until the next day ; take off the skin from the top, 
grate or roll the mass until perfectly smooth, and 
put it away in covered jars for use. To make gruel, 
mix four tablespoonfuls of the flour quite smooth, 
in a quarter of a pint of water, pour on it three 
quarters of a pint of boiling milk or water, then 
boil the gruel for ten minutes, stirring continually. 
Cream, eggs, or beef-tea may be added, as in the 
first recipe. 

This boiled flour makes excellent food for infants 
and also good puddings, and is a better thickening 
for gravy, broth, and soup than raw flour. 

Baked Flour. 

Baked flour is not so delicate or suitable for 
invalids as boiled flour, but is more readily prepared, 
and answers well for children. 

Prepare the flour by pressing it tightly into an 
earthenware stewing jar with a cover, put it in a 
very slow oven and let it remain from ten to twelve 
hours. If the oven is hot the flour will be browned 
and spoiled. The oven of large ranges will 
generally bake the flour sufficiently during the 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 7 

night. When done use as directed for boiled 
flour. 

Restorative Gruel. 

This delicious substitute for Groat Gruel is made 
as follows : — one ounce of rice, one ounce of sag-o, 
one ounce of pearl barley ; put three pints of water, 
and boil gently for three hours, when the liquor 
should be reduced to a quart. Strain it in exactly 
the same manner as groat gruel, and flavour with 
wine, brandy, or anything else that may be suitable. 
If made a little thicker, say with an ounce and a half 
of each ingredient to three pints of water, a jelly 
will be produced, which may be eaten cold with 
sugar, fruit, syrups, or preserve. 

Onion Gruel. 

This is an old-fashioned remedy for a cold, 
but can never be recommended unless boiled for 
at least five hours. The long boiling takes away 
the pungent odour of the onions and the breath 
will not then be affected by them. 

Take two ounces of Embden crroats and four 



COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 



large onions sliced, put them on in a quart of cold 
water. Let the gruel boil gently for five hours, 
stirring occasionally, adding water to keep the 
original quantity. When done, strain through a 
fine sieve, salt to taste, and serve with toasted 
bread. The yolk of an egg beaten up in the gruel 
is a good addition. 

Arrowroot. 

Great care should be taken to procure pure 
arrowroot, as that sold under the name at a low 
price, is merely potato or rice starch. It can 
always be had genuine at Apothecaries' Hall, and 
it must be understood it cannot be bought at a 
low price. 

The operation of making arrowroot is exceed- 
ingly simple, and if care is taken to mix it smooth 
in a little cold water, and to keep the water boiling- 
while stirring it in, it cannot fail to be successful. 

Mix a dessertspoonful of arrowroot in two table- 
spoonfuls of cold water, have ready half-a-pint of 
fast boiling water, — lemon peel may be infused in 
it, — and stir it rapidly on to the arrowroot Add 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS, 



sugar, wine, brandy, or any flavouring desired. 
Tea arrowroot may be made by boiling tea after 
drawn from the pot, and using in the same manner 
as water ; a httle lemon juice is a nice addition. 

Cofl"ee arrowroot may be made in the same 
manner. Or, the arrowroot may be made with milk, 
and have a little very strong coffee stirred into it. 

Milk arrowroot is made exactly in the same 
manner, rather less arrowroot being required. A 
dessertspoonful of good arrowroot will make half-a- 
pint of liquid as thick as can well be taken, there- 
fore the quantity used must be regulated by the 
wishes of the invalid. 



Oatmeal Porridge. 

Porridge has the reputation of afibrding much 
nourishment, and of being especially valuable for 
children. 

Yet few invalids will eat it, nor indeed has it 
general favour south of the Tweed. This may in 
part be accounted for by the inferior quality of the 
oatmeal sold in England. In London it is almost 
impossible to procure it genuine, and therefore 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



many good housewives make arrangements to have 
it sent to them direct from the North. 

When oatmeal leaves an acrid taste in the mouth 
it is a sign that it is adulterated or inferior. 

In all cases oatmeal must be thoroughly boiled, 
and though so simple, there is no dish requiring 
more care and attention in its preparation than 
porridge. 

Boil a pint of water, drop in with one hand, by 
degrees, stirring with a wooden spoon in the other, 
one ounce of oatmeal and half a teaspoonful of salt, 
let the porridge boil for half an hour, after all the 
meal is stirred in, stirring it occasionally to prevent 
sticking to the saucepan. 

When done, pour it out and serve with milk or 
cream. Those who like it may be allowed sugar 
or golden syrup. It is now conceded by most 
doctors that sugar in any reasonable quantity is 
good for children and that the craving for it is 
dictated by natural laws. 

Porridge is made lighter by longer boiling, and 
for dyspeptic people it is best boiled an hour, add- 
ing a little boiling water should it threaten to 
thicken. 



BEEF-TEA, BROTH, &c., &.c. 



Next in order to gruel in the invalid's bill of fare 
comes beef-tea, which, though no longer accredited 
with virtues it does not possess, is undoubtedly a 
useful, if not very nourishing form of animal diet. 
Since the introduction of Liebig's extract of meat, 
beef-tea has been in danger, as our American 
cousins say, " of being improved off the earth." 
The baron's preparation may indeed be useful in 
an emergency, but is so inferior to that of fresh- 
killed beef, as to make one marvel at the frequency 
with which it has been ordered. No doubt one 
reason why the extract has been so largely substi- 
tuted for fresh-killed beef, has been that doctors 
have found it difficult to get the tea properly made 
from the latter, by average cooks, and have there- 
fore preferred to order Liebig's extract, which at 
least is free from grease. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



Beef Tea. 

Cut one pound of beefsteak into dice, rejecting 
all skin and fat. Put into a stewpan a bit of fresh 
butter the size of a bean, throw in the meat, and 
sprinkle over a small pinch of salt. Cover the 
stewpan closely, and set on the range at a low heat 
to draw out the juices, which will take twenty- 
minutes. Take care there is no approach to frying, 
as that would dry up the extract and destroy the 
character of the tea. About every five minutes 
during the process drain away the gravy as it 
comes ; if the meat is fine and fresh there will be 
at least the third of a pint, and when all is drawn 
set it aside, either to use as EXTRACT OF BEEF or 
to be added to the tea when finished. Now put to 
the meat one pint of water, and let it boil gently 
for half an hour. Pour the tea off, but do not 
strain it, as such nourishment as it contains lies in 
the thick portion. Of course if a patient is unable 
to take any solid this rule will not apply, and the 
tea must then be strained either through a linen or 



COOKER Y FOR INVALIDS. 1 3 

flannel bag. Having drained off the tea whilst still 
boiling hot, put into it the juices at first extracted, 
and having taken off every particle of fat, it will be 
ready to serve. 

Another method of making beef-lea is to cut the 
meat into small pieces, cover with cold water, and 
simmer an hour. If it is allowed, two or three 
peppercorns and a minced shallot — it is milder than 
onion — will be a nice addition to the tea. 

Another good way of preparing beef-tea is to cut 
the meat into very small pieces, and put it in a jar 
having a closely fitting lid, with cold water. The 
jar can be placed in the oven for an hour or two, 
according to the heat, or in a saucepan of water to 
boil for an hour and a half. 

In all cases where it can be taken, beef-tea should 
be slightly thickened, and especially when bread is 
refused. Boiled flour is best for this purpose; 
genuine arrow-root may also be used. The yolk of 
an ^q^^ beaten up in the broth cup, and the tea 
poured boiling on to it is excellent. 

The meat from which beef-tea has been prepared 
will make good stock, or be very nice if properly 
treated for the dinner of the family who, be it 



14 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 

remembered, ha\e the chief of the nourishment in 
the fibre. 

It is important in the preparation of beef-tea to 
preserve the fine flavour of the meat, and to use 
such scrupulously clean vessels that no foreign taste 
can be imparted to it. The shin of beef should not 
be chosen for this purpose, for it gives more gelatine 
than juice. The best part is beefsteak or the neck ; 
the first will yield the most gravy, and does not 
cost above twopence per pound more than the 
coarser portion of the ox. 

The idea that beef-tea should be boiled a long 
time in order to extract all the goodness of the 
meat is a mistaken one, for the gelatinous matter 
thus gained is of comparatively little value, whilst 
the delicate aroma of the tea is lost by long boiHng. 

Beef Jelly. 

This is often very useful. It is much better to 
prepare it in the following manner, than to subject 
the meat to such long boiling as will produce 
sufficient gelatine to set the jelly. 

Make extract of beef as directed for beef-tea, 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 15 

adding no water and but little, if any, salt. For a 
quarter of a pint of the extract, soak the eighth of 
an ounce of Nelson's gelatine in a tablespoonful of 
cold water, and when sufficiently swelled, boil it 
until dissolved. When the extract is nearly cold, 
stir in the gelatine, and when set, it will be ready 
for use. By using a little ice to facilitate cooling, 
this beef jelly may be prepared in less than an 
hour. 

Cold Drawn Beef Tea. 

. Mince a pound of rump steak very fine, put it 
into a basin with a cover, pour over it half a pint 
of cold water and let it stand a quarter of an hour, 
then stir well together, and allow it to stand for 
another quarter of an hour. Drain off the liquid, 
and it is ready. If it is desirable to keep the 
patient in ignorance of the nature of this beef-tea, 
it may be done by adding a few drops of colouring 
which will sufficiently disguise it. As, however, 
beef-tea thus prepared is only ordered for cases 
of great extremity, it is generally possible to 
administer it in such a manner that the patient 
will not see it. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



Mutton Eroth. 

For this purpose have the scrags of necks of 
mutton, taking care that they are perfectly fresh. 
If kept a day after cut from the sheep, they acquire 
a flavour which renders them unsuitable for 
making delicate broth. 

Having well washed the meat in tepid water, cut 
it into small pieces, and put it into a stewpan or 
stockpot, with a quart of water to each pound of 
meat. If the broth is not required strong, put 
another pint of water ; add a pinch of salt, and so 
soon as the pot boils, skim the liquor, and repeat 
the operation until no more scum rises. If allowed, 
add two onions, a turnip, four white peppercorns, 
and, one hour before the broth is finished, half a 
small stick of celery. Let the broth boil for three 
hours very gently, and then strain it. If it be not 
immediately required, set it aside for the fat to 
rise ; but if otherwise, plunge the basin into a 
vessel of cold water, which will cause the fat to 
rise rapidly, or, if the broth is strong enough to 
bear it, a few spoonfuls of cold water added, will 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 17 

have the same effect. Chopped parsley should be 
served with the broth, and, unless the taste of the 
patient is well known, should be sent up separately. 

Pick and wash the parsley, throw it into a 
saucepan containing boiling water slightly salted, 
simmer for a minute, then chop finely. 

It is better and cheaper to make broth of several 
scrags of mutton, than of the whole of one neck, 
for the best end is not so suitable for this purpose, 
and is expensive on account of the great demand 
for it for cutlets. 

The meat from which mutton broth has been 
made may be used for the family as follows ; — 
Remove the meat frorn the bones, add to it a small 
quantity of fresh-boiled carrot, turnip, and onions, 
with a little of the broth nicely seasoned, and 
slightly thickened with flour; gently simmer to- 
gether for half-an-hour, and you will then have 
as agreeable and nourishing a dish as need be. 
Caper sauce may be served with it. 

Mutton broth may be quickly, though somewhat 
more expensively, made by cutting the lean meat 
of neck or loin chops, or even of the leg of mutton, 
into dice and boiling it for an hour. A pound of 



r8 COOKER Y FOR INVALIDS. 

meat thus prepared should be put into a clean 
stewpan with a quart of water, and, if allowed, a 
little minced carrot, turnip and onion, two or three 
white peppercorns, and a pinch of celery seed tied 
in muslin. If the broth is required very good, let 
the water reduce in boiling to a pint, but if not, 
add water to keep the quantity to a quart. Finish 
as directed in the first recipe for mutton broth. 

Veal Broth. 

This is made in the same manner as mutton 
broth, choosing for it also the scrag end of the 
neck, and allowing a quart of water to each pound 
of meat, which will give a strong broth ; add a 
turnip, two onions, celery, peppercorns, and a sprig 
of thyme and parsley, or any of them as may be 
allowed. Veal broth is often thickened with rice or 
pearl barley ; but the majority of invalids dislike 
the flavour of both. Boiled flour is more delicate, 
and in most cases preferable, as it contains less 
starch than either rice or barley. Should either be 
ordered, wash an ounce carefully, put it in when 
the broth has been skimmed, and boil the whole 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



gently for four hours. Finish in the same manner 
as mutton broth. 

The French-prepared flours, Fayeux's Feciile de 
Pomme de terre, and Fleur de viz, are very h'ght and 
deHcate, and to be preferred to all preparations of 
corn-flour for thickening broth, &c., for invalids. 

Chicken Broth. 

Fine young, but not fat, birds are required for 
this purpose. This broth may be made in an 
economical manner by boiling the chicken just 
sufliciently for eating, and then, either having sent 
the bird to table, or cut off the white meat and put 
it aside to make a little dish, returning the bones 
with one or both of the legs to the broth, and 
allowing it to boil two hours with an onion, a few 
peppercorns, and salt. Or, the white meat may be 
cut from the breast, merry-thought, and wings 
before boiling, and used for making quenelles or 
some other delicate dish, the remainder of the 
chicken being cut up to make the broth. Boil 
rather more than two hours, strain, take off all fat, 
and serve. • 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



Cheap Broth. 

Take a sheep's head, without tongue or brains, 
and one pound of scrag of mutton or lean pieces. 
Thoroughly wash the head, put it on to boil for 
ten minutes in plenty of water, with a tablespoon- 
ful of salt ; then, by pouring away this liquor, 
perfect cleanliness will be ensured. Put on the 
head, with the meat cut into small pieces, six 
onions, twelve peppercorns, half a pint of Embden 
or chicken groats, two ounces of pearl barley, a 
tablespoonful of salt, and a gallon of cold water. 
When the pot boils skim it, then cover closely, and 
allow it to continue boiling gently for six hours. 
As the liquid reduces in the boiling, water should 
be added to keep it to the original quantity. 
When done strain it, and rub the onions, barley, 
and groats through a sieve. Take the fat off the 
broth, add this thickening, boil up together, and 
serve. The tongue and brains are the most valuable 
portions of a sheep's head, as they make a delicious 
breakfast dish, and if the value of these is allowed, 
the cost of the broth in London will be about 



COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 2 1 

fourpence a quart. If preferred, two heads can be 
used, and the meat omitted, and this will be a trifle 
cheaper. 

Gravy Soup. 

Soups are sometimes ordered for invalids who 
have a distaste for solid food, and it is of importance 
they should be made as nourishing as possible, 
and that although appetising, the flavour should be 
chiefly that of meat — spices and hot condiments 
being avoided. For this reason the best meat 
must be chosen, and beef steak, although it costs a 
trifle more than gravy meat, will be found to yield 
a more savoury soup. 

For gravy soup, procure a calfs foot, have it 
chopped into small pieces, boil it for two hours in 
two quarts of water, and then add it and the liquor in 
which it was boiled, to two pounds of beef steak cut 
into dice, and lightly fried, two onions fried a light- 
brown in butter, a turnip, and a carrot, and a very 
small slice of lean hami. When the saucepan boils 
take off every particle of scum, let all boil together 
for two hours, add a pinch of celery seed tied in 
muslin, or a small piece of celery, let it boil ten 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



minutes more, when strain and set aside to cool 
in order to remove the fat. This done, boil up the 
soup, with the lid of the saucepan off, remove the 
froth or scum as it rises, stir into the soup two or 
three teaspoonfuls oi fccule de pomme de terre rnxK^A 
smooth in a little cold soup or water ; add salt 
if necessary, and serve. There should from the 
given quantities be a quart of very fine soup. 
Macaroni or Italian paste may be served with the 
soup, or small quenelle balls made as directed, page 
92, are very good. 

Many cooks spoil the Italian pastes in cooking, 
but with very little care to keep the water boiling 
this will be avoided. For an ounce, say of melon 
pattern paste, have a pint of boiling water, slightly 
salted, keep boiling fast for five minutes or until 
the paste is tender, let it stand in the water until 
wanted — it is all the better for getting cold — then 
strain, put into the broth basin and pour the soup 
on to it. 

WMte Soup. 

Chop two pounds of the scrag end of a neck 
of veal and one pound of scrag of mutton into 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 23 

small pieces, put them into three pints of water, 
with two onions, a large turnip and a pinch of salt. 
As soon as the water boils skim thoroughly, and 
allow the saucepan to continue gently boiling for 
three hours. Then strain, and let the broth cool 
in order to remove the fat. Boil it up, stir in a 
tablespoonful of the French potato flour mixed 
smooth in half a pint of milk or cream ; let it 
thicken ; season to taste and serve. The flavour of 
the soup is improved by the addition of a little 
mutton, but if required to be very white it will be 
best to use veal only. If there is no objection, the 
flavour will be heightened by using a sprig of 
thyme, and rather more turnip and onion. 

Mock Turtle. 

This soup may be made as gravy soup with two 
calfs feet instead of one, and be rather thicker, and 
flavoured with sherry and lemon juice. Small pieces 
of the meat of the feet, should be served with the 
soup : Or, procure half a calfs head, let it soak in cold 
water with a spoonful of vinegar and a little salt for 
two hours, remove the brain and tongue, thoroughly 



24 COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 

wash the head and then put it on with sufficient 
water to cover it, and a tablespoonful of salt ; let it 
boil for ten minutes, then throw away the liquor, 
and add three quarts of fresh water, and let the head 
boil gently for two hours ; then proceed as directed 
for gravy soup. Serve small pieces of the best parts 
of the head in the soup, but forcemeat balls, ^gg 
balls, &c., not being digestible, are best avoided. 
Flavour with sherry and lemon juice. This 
quantity should make three pints of very strong 
soup. 

Fanadsu 

Panadas are a useful form of diet in cases of 
weakness of the digestive organs ; to render them 
palatable great care is required in making them, 
and the materials must be well chosen. They are 
best made of the crusts of light bread, and French 
bread when it can be procured is lightest and most 
suitable. A roll called flilte is used in France for 
making panada for invalids. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



Water Panada. 

Put a pint of cold water into a stewpan of copper 
or enamel, and put into it two ounces of light crusts, 
boilfor three quarters of anhour,stirringoccasionally; 
add a bit of butter the size of a marble, and salt; 
then stir in the yolk of an ^gg and serve. 

Milk Panada. 

Boil the milk in order to be sure it will not curdle, 
when cold put in bread, and proceed as for water 
panada. When made sweeten. No eggs or butter 
are used with this panada. 

Broth Panada. 

Use good broth or beef tea ; proceed as for water 
panada omitting the eggs. 

Chicken Panada. 

Add the white meat of chicken pounded in a 
mortar, to bread panada made either with essence 
of chicken, water or broth. 



26 COOKER Y FOR INVALIDS. 



Meat Lozenges. 

An easy method of preparing these, which are 
often useful to an invalid when travelling, and serve 
also to give richness to beef-tea or broth, is as 
follows : Soak an ounce of Nelson's gelatine for an 
hour in a pint of extract of beef, drawn as directed 
for beef-tea, without any water ; put it into a clean 
stewpan, and when it boils continue skimming until 
no more scum rises. Allow the preparation to boil 
fast without the lid of the stewpan until it assumes 
the appearance of glue, then pour it off into a plate, 
and when cold cut it in convenient pieces. If put 
away in a tin, in a dry place, these lozenges will 
keep a long time. 



SOUPS FOR CHILDREN. 



Milk Soup. 



Mince two large onions, a turnip and the white 
part of a small stick of celery, boil the vegetables 



COOKERY FOR lyVA LIDS. 27 

in a pint of stock, or liquor fresh meat has been 
boiled in, or water. When the vegetables are done 
rub them through a sieve, then add them and the 
liquor in which they boiled to a pint of milk, let it 
boil, season and thicken with a dessertspoonful of 
French potato flour or two of rice flour rubbed 
smooth in a little milk or water. Serve with fried 
bread. In this and the following soups, where 
there is no objection, a little white sugar should be 
added. 

Bread Soup. 

Boil one large onion and a turnip in a quart of 
water; when the vegetables are done rub them 
through a sieve and put them with two ounces of 
French roll, broken up, not cut, into small pieces 
into the water they were boiled in. Let the bread 
continue boiling for half an hour, stirring it to 
prevent sticking to the saucepan, and if necessary 
add water from time to time. When the bread is 
done, add by degrees a pint of milk, or as much as 
will make the soup a proper thickness ; when it 
boils add a teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of pepper 
and an ounce of butter, stir together, and serve. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



Egg Soup. 

Slice two onions, fry a light brown in a little 
butter, add to them three pints of water and let it 
reduce in boiling to one quart ; when the onions are 
tender, strain them out of the liquor and put them 
aside. Let the liquor boil and add to it one table- 
spoonful of flour mixed smooth in a quarter of a 
pint of milk, half a teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of 
pepper, and a pinch of sifted sugar ; stir until the 
soup has thickened, then remove it from the fire, 
and stir in gradually the yolks of four eggs. Have 
ready in the soup tureen two ounces of pulled bread 
or slices of roll dried in the oven ; pour the soup on 
to the bread and serve. 



Oatmeal Soup. 

Put two ounces of oatmeal in a basin, pour over 
it a pint of cold water, stir it and let it stand a 
minute, then pour over it, quickly stirring all the 
time, a pint of good broth, pour through a fine 
strainer into a saucepan, taking care none of the 



COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 29 

coarse part of the meal goes into the soup. Boil 
the soup for ten minutes, season, and serve. 



Haricot Soup. 

Pour boiling water over a quarter of a pint of 
large white Haricot beans, let them stand covered 
over for five minutes, then remove the skins in the 
same way as you blanch almonds. It is better to 
remove the skin before cooking as it is indigestible, 
and the beans take much longer to cook unskinned. 
Put the beans to boil in a quart of water, with about 
two ounces of pickled pork or fat bacon, and two 
onions, when the beans are tender, they will 
probably take three hours, and water must be added 
from time to time to prevent them sticking to the 
stewpan, rub them through a sieve, add enough 
broth or water to make the soup a proper thick- 
ness, season and add to it the meat cooked with the 
soup very finely minced, let all boil together, and 
serv^e. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



Parsnip Soup. 

Cut a parsnip into small pieces, boil it until 
tender, rub it through a sieve, return it to the water 
in which it has boiled, and add water to make the 
whole one quart. Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour 
in half a pint of milk, let the parsnip boil and 
stir in the milk and flour, add salt and pepper to 
taste, and three lumps of sugar, serve with fried 
bread. 

Artichoke Soup. 

Wash and peel a pound of Jerusalem artichokes, 
boil them until tender, with two onions, a turnip and 
a small piece of celery ; when done rub them through 
a sieve, and add to the piiHe sufficient weak broth 
or water to make the whole a quart. Let it boil up, 
and add half a pint of milk thickened with a table- 
spoonful of flour, two or three lumps of sugar, and 
pepper and salt to taste. Serve with fried bread. 




BEVERAGES. 



Beer, Wine, Spirits. 



The subject of alcoholic drinks is so important 
and so closely allied to the food subject that a few 
words on it may not be out of place here. 

There can be no doubt that malt liquors are 
nourishing, and that persons using them habitually 
require less solid food than those who dispense 
with them. Men whose labour is severe, who are 
much in the open air, and whose digestion is good, 
may indulge in a moderate quantity of malt liquor 
without fear of ill consequences. But, whenever the 
digestion is in any degree at fault, malt liquor will 
increase the mischief, and for those who lead 
sedentary lives, and for women generally, it will be 
found unsuitable. Those who take half-a-pint of 
ale with a full meal will tell you they feel heavy 



32 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 

and stupid after it, averse from resuming their 
occupations, and much more inclined to sleep than 
work, which proves at once that the digestive 
organs have been overtasked. Half-a-pint of any 
liquid, as a rule, taken with a meat meal is a serious 
tax on digestive organs in any degree impaired or 
deranged, and whenever it is thought necessary to 
stimulate the appetite by bitter ale, not more than 
a quarter of a pint should be given. 

Wine, as a food, is of doubtful value, such virtues 
as it possesses being due to the alcohol with which 
it is fortified. Port and Sherry are costly wines, and 
it is difficult to procure them genuine ; indeed, much 
sold under these names are chemical compositions 
or vile adulterations, and so uneducated is the 
public taste that it accepts anything described by 
the vendors as Port or Sherry. Ladies are very 
much at the mercy of unscrupulous merchants, and 
will do well to avoid advertising firms, and still 
better, if wine is a necessity for themselves or their 
families, to acquire a correct taste and judgment in 
the matter. When Champagne is ordered people 
can easily protect themselves by buying only that 
of names well known as supplying the market with 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



none but pure wine. First class champagne is ex- 
pensive, but when it is necessary must be looked upon 
as medicine which nobody dreams of getting second 
or third rate. The red wines of France and 
Hungary are agreeable and useful as beverages for 
the healthy, and there is no objection to their use 
by those dyspeptics who from experience have 
found them suitable. In hot weather a small 
quantity of claret cup made with plain and not 
aerated water may be drank at dinner. In the 
winter mulled claret will often be found useful. 

Weak brandy and water is without doubt the 
safest and best beverage for persons of delicate 
digestion. As in the matter of Champagne, the 
public can protect itself against adulteration, by 
buying only the brandy of those makers who, 
like Martell, capsule and brand their corks with 
their names, and with signs or marks to indicate 
the age of the spirit, in addition to labelling the 
bottles. New brandy is injurious and inferior 
qualities dangerous, and the same remark applies 
to it as to wine — if required as a medicinal food, a 
price ensuring its age and purity must be paid. A 
fair domestic test of the quality of brandy will be 



34 COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 

to put a few drops of the raw spirit on the lips, if 
it occasions severe smarting it is not fit for use, 
good brandy will only cause a little heat to the skin 
of the lips. Persons who take brandy habitually 
should be careful to measure their daily allowance 
and not to exceed the quantity prescribed for them. 
Stimulants should never be taken except at meal 
times. Two tablespoonfuls daily is a fair allow- 
ance of brandy for persons who take but little 
exercise. 

It is sometimes necessary to take Whisky, and it 
is of the utmost importance to have it old, for time 
alone can eliminate those qualities which render it 
injurious. Even when old Whisky is a more 
powerful spirit than brandy, and great care is 
necessary both in its selection and in its use. It is 
not so generally useful or agreeable as brandy, but 
there are cases where it is highly beneficial and even 
necessary. 

Tea. 

The operation of making tea is in itself so simple 
that at first sight any directions about it may seem 
superfluous ; yet, few and easy as are the rules for 



COOKER Y FOR INVALIDS. 35 



making a good cup of tea, they are in nine cases 
out of ten disregarded, and instead of a fragrant, 
most refreshing beverage, one every way "flat, 
stale, and unprofitable " is produced. In the 
interests of invalids, for whom we are now writing, 
a few plain directions must be given. In the first 
place the greatest care must be taken in the choice 
of the raw material. No really fine tea can be 
bought cheaply, and for invalids from three 
and sixpence to four shillings a pound should be 
paid. Cheap teas of inferior growth are destitute 
of the fine aromatic qualities which render tea so 
useful to delicate persons, and those flavoured with 
orange Pekoe, or other scented tea, should always 
be avoided. Fine Souchong, "plain," as it is 
technically called — that is, without admixture with 
any other kind or quality of tea— will be found 
best for invalids. Since the best test known to 
merchants is that of taste, it is the one to be relied 
on by private persons, and the rules by which tea- 
tasting is carried on in the City may be generally 
employed with advantage. 

Put freshly-drawn cold water into the kettle, and 
the moment it boils make the tea. If the water 



36 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



continues in ebullition for half a minute after 
reaching the boiling-point its character becomes 
changed, and it is rendered unfit for tea-making. 
Rinse an earthenware teapot with boiling water, — it 
should not be too large for the quantity of liquid 
required,— and put into it rather less than a quarter 
of an ounce of tea, or in measure two large tea- 
spoonfuls of tea, and pour on it somewhat slowly 
half a pint of boiling water. Cover the pot with 
a cozy, and allow the tea to stand exactly five 
minutes, with a silver teaspoon stir it up, let it 
stand five or six minutes to settle, and having 
put sugar into the cup pour it out, and add cream, 
milk, or lemon juice as required. It is seldom 
that carbonate of soda is requisite to bring out 
the qualities of really fine tea, though it may 
be advantageously employed in small quantities 
for inferior kinds of tea, and in districts where the 
water is very hard. 

Coffee. 

It is so essential that cofi*ee for invalids should 
not only be freshly ground, but freshly roasted, 
that it is recommended every family should be 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. yj 

provided, not only with a coffee mill, but with a 
small coffee roaster. It is the only way in England 
to have coffee in perfection ; for it is frequently 
kept by grocers so long after roasting as to have 
lost many of its valuable aromatic properties. One 
of these roasters can be procured at Kent's, High 
Holborn, who has also a very useful coffee-pot for 
invalids, heated by a spirit lamp. Milk can be 
warmed in it whilst the coffee is making, and a 
most delicious cup either of cafe itoir, or cafe ati 
lait can thus be prepared in a few minutes. The 
milk supplied in towns, even if unadulterated, is 
generally of a poor quality, and will be improved 
for coffee and other purposes, by allowing it to 
stand on the range at a temperature which will 
keep it just below boiling for half-an-hour. The 
watery particles will thus be given off, and the 
residue be more nourishing. 

A number of economical methods for making- 
coffee have been proposed of late years, yet, as in the 
case of tea, it remains certain it can only be made 
good by a liberal allowance of the raw material; yet, 
it is a mistake to suppose that coffee to be good 
need be strong. After giving a due meed of praise 



38 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 

to all the clever machines for making coffee, we are 
bound to say, none of them excel, or even equal, 
the common French cafetiere. Only a little patience 
is required to make exquisite coffee, either in a tin 
or earthenware cafetihe. Put two ounces of finely 
ground coffee into the upper portion of the pot, 
and pour on it, slowly and by degrees, a pint of 
water, boiling, from the kettle. Set the pot by the 
fire, or cover closely with a well-wadded cozy, and 
allow it to stand for fifteen minutes, or until the 
coffee has all filtered into the lower half of the pot. 
If another pot has to be used for serving the 
coffee, see that it is made thoroughly hot, by allow- 
ing boiling water to stand in it for a minute or two. 
Do not use chicory for invalids — it is never a 
desirable admixture, and in their case it might 
prove injurious. 

Cocoa. 

No doubt the best cocoa for invalids is that 
prepared from the nibs. Great care is required in 
making it, and it cannot be done in a hurry. Allow 
a teacupful of nibs to every quart of water, skim it 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 39 

occasionally during the boiling, which should be 
continued slowly for six hours. Fill up the pot 
with water to supply that lost by evaporation, and 
when done strain the cocoa and allow it to get per- 
fectly cold, then remove every article of fat from 
the surface, re-warm, and serve with milk or cream 
as directed. Mr Kent has a small " patent family 
cocoa mill " by which cocoa nibs can be reduced to 
powder, and thus a single cup of cocoa may be as 
readily made as one of coffee. When the cocoa is 
ground, either boil it for ten minutes and strain, or 
make exactly as directed for coffee. 

The beverage obtained from preparations of 
cocoa, as a rule, very little resembles that obtained 
from cocoa nibs, but Van Houten's is very pure, 
entirely free from starch and sugar, and has so fine 
a flavour that it may be cited as an exception to 
its class. 

Water. 

The absolute purity of water can be secured by 
boiling, and it is recommended that all water 
required for the beverages of invalids — it would be 
well if the rule could be generally applied, — should 



40 COOKER V FOR INVA LIDS. 

be boiled and, when cold, be filtered. For making 
tea and coffee it should be filtered before boiling. 
Water in the sick-room should be frequently 
changed, as it quickly absorbs the impurities with 
which the air is charged, and becomes improper, if 
not dangerous, for drinking purposes. If possible, it 
is well to have a small filter, always charged, in an 
adjoining apartment, as the water is thus kept in 
readiness, both cold and pure. If a stone filter 
is inadmissible and too expensive, one made of 
charcoal answers well and may be obtained at a 
small cost. 

Lemonade. 

Peel a fine lemon as thinly as possible, and let 
the peel lie for half an hour in a quart of cold 
filtered water; then add the strained juice of the 
lemon, remove the peel, and sweeten to taste with 
lump sugar. Capillaire, or simple syrup, is very 
o-ood for sweetening all invalid drinks, and is 
useful for a variety of purposes. To make it, 
take a pound of the finest loaf sugar, and put 
it into a pint and a half of cold water ; let it 
boil gently, removing every particle of scum as 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 41 

it rises, until it begins to thicken and assumes 
a golden tinge. When finished, it should be per- 
fectly bright and clear, and if well made will keep 
a long time. It should be put away in small 
bottles, and be well corked. 

Provision should be made in families for supply- 
ing lemonade at any moment. This may be done 
by putting the peel of lemons, when cheap, into a 
bottle, and covering them with gin, draining away 
the liquor when it has stood a month, and bottling 
it. This can be used to flavour lemonade made 
with citric acid, v/hich is perfectly wholesome. 

A syrup can be made of the juice of the lemons 
thus : Add half a pint of strained juice to a pint of 
capillaire made as directed above, and allow both 
to boil together for an hour. If care be taken to 
remove all scum as it rises, the syrup will be clear 
and bright. Put away in small bottles closely 
corked, and it will keep for years. A little of this 
syrup, with a few drops of the extract of lemon 
peel, makes a delicious and refreshing drink. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



Black Currant Jam Water. 

Put two tablespoonfuls of the jam, with a pint 
of water, into a perfectly bright tin saucepan, and 
allow them to simmer for half an hour ; strain it, 
and if for a cold take it as hot as possible. When 
required to allay thirst, the drink will be given 
cold. In cases of sore throat a tablespoonful more 
jam will be used. This method of making jam 
water is better and more economical than merely 
pouring boiling water on the jam. 

Apple Water. 

Wash three or four fine sharp apples, and bake 
them slowly until done ; then break them up, put 
into a jug with a quart of water, stir up briskly 
with a silver spoon, and allow it to stand an hour 
or two. Strain through a fine sieve, and sweeten 
to taste. Lemon flavouring may be added. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS, 43 

Tamarind Water. 

Boil two ounces of tamarinds with a quarter of a 
pound of stoned raisins in three pints of water for 
an hour ; strain it, and when cold it is fit for use. 

Oatmeal Water. 

Put a large tablespoonful of coarse oatmeal into a 
jug, pour over it a pint of cold filtered or boiled 
water. Stir it up well, allow it to stand until the 
oatmeal has settled at the bottom of the jug, when 
strain off clear, and use either as a remedy for thirst 
or to make lemonade, to which it thus imparts some 
slight nourishment. 

Rice Water. 

Wash two ounces of best rice and boil it fast for 
half an hour in three pints of water. Any flavouring 
may be added, or a small piece of stick cinnamon 
or shred lemon peel may be boiled with the rice, 
and sugar used according to circumstances. Strain 
the rice and put the water aside to get cold. 



44 COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 

Lemonade made with rice water when cold is very 
nice and refreshing. 

Toast Water. 

This useful beverage, like many other simple 
things, is too frequently very badly made, and has 
acquired an evil reputation from the crumbs of 
charcoal-like character, or little sodden morsels of 
bread, which too often are found floating on the 
surface. To remedy these defects take care that the 
crusts from which toast water is to be made, shall 
be only a nice deep brown, never allowing them to 
catch fire or blacken in the toasting, and letting 
them grow quite cold before immersing them in nice, 
fresh-filtered water. Whenever from any cause 
there are morsels of bread floating on the water 
strain it through muslin. The drink should be 
made an hour before it is wanted, and never be 
used after standing twelve hours. Serve it in a 
water bottle of clear glass. 



COOKER Y FOR INVALIDS. 45 

Egg Drinks. 

These are most useful, and may be made in almost 
endless variety. Beaten up with milk or cream, 
with wine or brandy, in tea and coffee, as a substitute 
for milk, eggs are equally useful. For tea or coffee 
beat up the yolk of an ^gg with a little sifted sugar, 
and a spoonful or two of milk or cream. Pour the 
tea from the pot on to it, stirring with one hand, 
and pouring in the liquid with the other. Proceed in 
the same manner for hot wine or spirit drink. For 
any cold beverage the white of the (tgg can be beaten 
up with the yolk, a little sugar added, and the 
liquid gradually mixed with the ^g'g. On account 
of the difficulty of mixing the white of an ^gg 
with hot drinks it is often omitted, but it should be 
used, whenever possible, as the albumen is very 
valuable. Curdling will be prevented if the yolk 
and white are beaten together for five minutes, and 
care must be taken to have the liquid several 
degrees below boiling point, when adding it to the 



46 COOKER Y FOR INVALIDS. 

Thick Milk. 

Beat up a new-laid ^gg, pour on it half a pint of 
boiling milk sweetened to taste, and flavoured with 
lemon peel, nutmeg, or vanilla. Serve cold in 
a glass. 

Suet Milk. 

Before the introduction of cod-liver oil this 
preparation was much recommended for con- 
sumptive persons ; it is rarely given now, as the 
richness of it renders it both unpleasant to the 
patient and difficult of digestion. 

Boil an ounce of perfectly fresh mutton suet, 
chopped fine in a quart of new milk for half an 
hour. A small piece of lemon peel, or stick cinna- 
mon, may be infused with the suet. Having strained 
the milk through a jelly bag, sweeten and serve 
warm. 

Gum Arabic Milk. 

Soak an ounce of the finest picked gum arable in 
two or three tablespoonfuls of cold water ; it will 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 47 

take less time to melt in the milk if thus soaked 
for some hours. Pour half a pint of boiling milk 
on to the gum, put into a jam pot or small jug, 
which set in a saucepan of boiling water over the 
fire, stirring occasionally, until dissolved. Sugar 
and flavouring may be added, if desired. 

Gum Arabic Water. 

Put into an earthenware jar an ounce of the 
finest picked gum, with two ounces of sugar candy 
and a pint of water, set it in a saucepan of water, 
and stir occasionally until dissolved. This is very 
useful as a night drink for hectic cough, and will 
allay the tickling of the throat. It should be kept 
as hot as possible. The little French porcelain 
veilleiise is well adapted for this purpose. 

Linseed Tea. 

Boil gently for two hours two ounces of linseed in 
a pint and a half of water with a little lemon peel 
shred finely, and an ounce of barley sugar. Strain, 
and add enough lemon juice to make it agreeable. 



4S COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 

This is useful for a cough, and should be taken 
warm. Spanish liquorice may, if liked, be boiled 
with the linseed. 



Almond Milk. 

Blanch two ounces of sweet almonds, add four 
bitter almonds, pound them in a mortar, using a 
little rose or orange flower water to facilitate the 
operation, put them into a jug, pour over a pint 
of cold water, and let it stand for twelve hours, 
stirring occasionally; then strain through a fine 
sieve, and sweeten the almond milk to taste with 
capillaire or sugar candy. This is useful in cases 
of internal inflammation, and may be used to 
dilute or flavour barley water and other beverages. 

Eed Currant Syrup. 

Pick out all leaves, &c.; put the currants into the 
oven at bed-time and let them remain until the 
next morning. Squeeze them through a canvas 
cloth, set the juice aside for two or three days 
until it has slightly fermented, boil it, skimming 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 49 

carefully until it is clear ; then add half a pound of 
sugar to a pint of juice, and boil until the syrup 
begins to thicken ; pour into an earthen vessel, and 
set aside until cold, then bottle and cork closely. 



Raspberry Vinegar. 

Put two quarts of fresh raspberries into a quart of 
vinegar, let it stand twenty-four hours, then strain it, 
being careful not to press the fruit. Put two more 
quarts of raspberries to the vinegar, again allowing 
it to stand twenty-four hours ; and, having repeated 
this a third time, measure the vinegar and put it 
into a jar, and to every pint add a pound of crushed 
lump sugar. Set the jar in a saucepan of boiling 
water and stir frequently until the sugar is dis- 
solved ; when cold bottle the syrup. Care must be 
taken to have the best vinegar or the syrup wiL 
not keep ; it is in perfection from six to twelve 
months after making. 



so COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



White Wine Whey. 

Boil a quart of milk, stir sherry in gradually 
until it begins to curdle, and boil until the curd has 
well separated ; strain, and serve very hot. This old 
fashioned remedy may be useful in promoting 
perspiration in cases of cold, but should be em- 
ployed with caution, as it is apt to induce headache, 
and sometimes, if too much wine is used, to increase 
rather than diminish fever. 

Treacle Posset. 

Boil a pint of milk, stir in two tablespoonfuls of 
treacle, let it boil up, and when the curds have well 
formed strain the whey through a fine sieve into a 
basin, and serve hot at bed-time as a remedy for a 
cold. 

Orange Tonio. 

Put the peel of six Seville oranges very thinly 
sliced into half a pint of brandy. Let it stand for a 
month, shaking it occasionally ; drain off the brandy 



COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 51 

into a clean bottle; let it stand until it becomes 
perfectly bright and clear ; use it as a tonic, a tea- 
spoonful in a glass of sherry, or make it into a 
cordial by adding syrup made as directed for 
lemonade. 

Ginger Cordial. 

Crush half a pound of fine whole ginger in the 
mortar, or cut it into small pieces. Put it into a 
bottle with a pint of brandy ; proceed as directed 
for orange cordial. This will be found useful in all 
cases where essence of ginger is required, and is 
good made into cordial as directed for orange 
tonic. 

Claret Cup, 

Half a pint of claret, a quarter of a pint of filtered 
water, two or three slices of orange, a dessertspoonful 
of brandy, and a teaspoonful of sifted sugar ; 
stir the ingredients well together, and put the jug 
in which they are mixed on to ice for half an hour. 
Strain and serve in a decanter; half a teaspoonful 
of the orange tonic may occasionally be a useful 
and agreeable addition. 



52 COOKER V FOR IN VALIDS. 



Mulled Claret. 

Put a very small piece of cinnamon and of 
crushed nutmeg, ginger, and cloves, into a bright 
saucepan with a quarter of a pint of water. Boil 
them for a minute, strain out the spice, and add 
half a pint of claret and four or five lumps of sugar. 
Let the wine get hot, and take care to remove it 
from the fire before it reaches the boiling point. 




EGGS. 



To boil an Egg. 



Boiling an egg is one of the most simple of 
culinary operations, yet is very often ill done ; 
sometimes the egg is put into just enough water to 
half cover it, and left to boil very fast for the allotted 
time. The consequence of this is, that one side of 
the Qgg is boiled nearly hard, whilst the other is not 
set. Again, eggs have their shells cracked by being 
boiled at a furious rate, and the contents escaping 
into the saucepan, the vacuum thus caused in the 
shell fills with water. Before putting in the egg, 
it is essential that the water boil, and be sufficient 
to entirely cover it ; in all cases, whether the egg is 
liked well or lightly cooked, the boiling should pro- 
ceed slowly. Three minutes is sufficient to boil a 
new laid egg. Eggs may be cooked by putting 



54 COOKER Y FOR INVALIDS. 

them into fast-boiling water; then taking the 
saucepan off the fire and letting it stand covered for 
five minutes. The eggs will then be lightly cooked. 

To Poach an Egg. 

Break an ^^^ into a jam pot, put it in a saucepan 
with boiling water to reach half way up the jar, 
boil gently until the ^^^ is cooked. Have ready a 
slice of toast, lightly buttered, hold the jar on one 
side and slide the ^^^ on to it, being careful not to 
break the yolk. Or, put a pinch of salt into half a 
pint of water, and when it boils drop in the ^%g 
broken into a cup. Let it boil very gently until 
set, then take it up with the fish slice and put it on 
the toast. A few drops of vinegar may be added 
to the water in which the ^g^ is poached. 

Eggs sur le plat. 

Break an tgg on to a plate lightly rubbed with 
butter, and put it in a moderate oven or on the 
range, until set. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



Scrambled Eggs. 

Put a piece of butter the size of a marble into a 
small stewpan, add a tablespoonful of milk and one 
of broth or gravy, pepper and salt ; break in two eggs 
and stir quickly until they begin to thicken, then 
put the stewpan on the table, and continue stirring 
until the eggs finish cooking in their own heat. 
Scrambled eggs should look lumpy and be very 
thick. When done, pour the eggs on to buttered 
toast. 

Eggs in Gravy. 

Put three tablespoonfuls of boiling gravy into a 
shallow tart dish, break in two fresh eggs, being 
careful to keep them whole, lightly pepper and salt 
them, and strew fine raspings over them. Bake in 
a quick oven for five minutes, or until the eggs are 
set. A slice of French roll or toast may be laid at 
the bottom of the dish, or fried sippets be served 
with the eggs. 



56 COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 



Omelet. 

To be suitable for invalids omelets will require 
to be cooked with as little butter as possible and 
to be very lightly fried. 

Put half an ounce of butter into the omelet pan ; 
as soon as it is hot, pour in gently two eggs well 
beaten, with a tablespoonful of milk, a little 
chopped parsley, pepper and salt ; let them rest 
quiet, the fire being gentle, for half a minute, then, 
with a silver fork, stir in the middle of the pan to 
prevent the omelets catching there ; in less than a 
minute it will be nearly done. Now hold the pan 
over the fire and shake gently, until the omelet is 
done, now fold over, slide on to a dish, and serve 
immediately. For a sweet omelet, substitute for 
the parsley a spoonful of sugar and a few drops of 
any flavouring, and when on the dish for serving, 
sift sugar over. 

Omelet Sonfflee. 

Less butter being required for this than a plain 
omelet, it is more suitable for invalids. The only 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 57 

condition of success in making an omelet soufflee is 
beating the eggs thoroughly. 

Put the yolks of two eggs into a basin with half 
an ounce of sifted sugar and a few drops of any 
flavouring essence, beat the yolks for six minutes, 
or until they become thick, then whip the whites 
very stiff, so that they will turn out of the basin 
like a jelly, then mix the yolks and whites lightly 
and pour them into the omelet pan thickly rubbed 
with dissolved butter, hold the omelet over a slow 
fire for two minutes, then put the frying pan into 
a quick oven and bake until it has risen ; four to 
five minutes ought to be suf^cient to finish the 
omelet. Slide the omelet on to a warm dish, sift 
sugar over, and serve instantly. 

German Omelets. 

Beat up the yolks of two eggs, mix a small 
teaspoonful of flour and one of French Potato 
flour in a tablespoonful of cold milk or cream, 
and stir into the eggs ; pour on this a quarter 
of a pint of boiling milk, sweeten lightly, and 
flavour with a few drops of extract of vanilla. 



58 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 

When ready to bake the omelets, beat the whites 
of the eggs to a strong froth, and stir all together ; 
rub two common pudding plates with just enough 
butter to prevent the omelets sticking, pour the 
mixture on to them, bake in a quick oven until 
set ; they will be done in about ten minutes. Fold 
them over, turn on to a hot dish, sift sugar over, 
and serve. If approved, a little apricot or straw- 
berry preserve may be spread over the omelets 
before folding them. These German omelets 
may be made savoury by substituting salt for sugar, 
and, if liked, adding a little pepper and chopped 
parsley. 







FISH. 

As fish is generally the first solid food allowed 
when convalescence begins, it is necessary to serve 
it with great skill and taste, for the appetite is 
then capricious and requires tempting. As a 
rule, pepper and salt judiciously employed in the 
preparation of any fish dish will make it sufficiently 
savoury for invalids ; and there are few cases in 
which a little white wine or vinegar may not with 
advantage be used in boiling, baking, or stewing 
fish. Objectionable as greasy cookery is at all 
times, it is intolerable for an invalid. Not a 
particle of grease should be suff'ered to remain on 
anything served to a delicate person, and, although 
fish may be fried in a quart of fat, there is no reason 
why any should cling to it when cooked. Fried 
sole and whiting should be laid on paper, and 
placed on a dish before the fire for a minute or 



6o COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 

two, and then, when perfectly dry, transferred to 
the dish on which they are to be served. Invalids 
may even indulge in an oyster fritter, if properly 
cooked ; it is not the process of frying which renders 
food unsuitable for them, but the slovenly and im- 
perfect manner in which it is carried out. If fish 
or anything else is put into fat before it boils, it 
may be said to be sodden in fat, not fried, and in 
such a condition food is unsuited to the delicate 
digestive organs even of healthy persons. Some of 
us may have experienced, and most people will 
have witnessed, the difficulty there is in eating the 
first dish of fish ordered for an invalid — boiled sole. 
Under the impression that food cannot be too 
plainly cooked for sick people, the cook puts the 
unfortunate fish into water, grudgingly sometimes 
adding a pinch of salt ; and when boiling has been 
carried on until the fish is deprived of much of its 
savour, and nearly all its nourishment, she com- 
placently serves it, w^ondering much when it is sent 
down almost untasted. As there can be no objec- 
tion on the part of the doctor to the following 
recipes, it is hoped they may be useful both in 
suggesting nutritious and tempting dishes, and in 



COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 6 1 

providing some little variety for the invalid's 
meiiu. 

Boiled Sole. 

Nothing is easier than to convert this dish, 
ordinarily most insipid, into one that may tempt 
the most fastidious taste, and as it is ordered 
frequently for invalids, it is important it should be 
properly cooked. An hour before cooking the un- 
skinned sole, sprinkle salt lightly over it, and lay 
it in a dish with half a teacupful of vinegar. Put 
the fish and the vinegar into enough hot white stock 
well seasoned, — or, if you have none, water in which 
an onion with a little salt and half a dozen pepper- 
corns have been boiled — to cover the sole, and let it 
stand ten minutes in this liquor, getting gradually 
hotter. At the last let it simmer for five 
minutes, or rather longer, if the fish is thick. Take 
it up, drain and serve plain, or with parsley sauce. 
Fillets of sole may be cooked in the same manner, 
and brill also is very good, longer time being 
allowed according to the size of the nsh. 



6? COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 



Baked Soles. 

Small soles, called by fishmongers "slips," 
answer well for this purpose. Scrape, but do not 
skin, the fish, dip them in a little dissolved butter, 
then strew on them some finely sifted bread 
crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt, and bake 
in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. 

Fried Sole. 

Do not have the sole skinned for frying ; it is far 
more nourishing and digestible when merely 
scraped and washed. Beat up the yolk of an ^gg, 
brush both sides of the sole with it, and then dip 
in finely sifted bread crumbs well seasoned with 
pepper and salt. Have sufficient frying fat in the 
pan — good clean dripping answers perfectly well — 
to cover the fish ; when it boils, put in the fish, and 
fry as quickly as you conveniently can. If you 
cannot manage to have enough fat to cover the 
fish, fry first on one side, then on the other, until a 
rich golden colour. Take up the sole with the fish 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



slice, lay it on paper before the fire, transfer to 
another dish, and serve. The time a sole will 
take to fry depends on the thick ness ; five minutes 
will cook one of a moderate size, ten a very large 
one. 

Fried Fillets of Sole. 

Having wiped and dried the fillets, dredge them 
with flour, then dip them in beaten ^'g'g, and cover 
them well with finely sifted bread crumbs, nicely 
seasoned with pepper and salt. Put the fillets 
into a wire frying basket and immerse them in a 
saucepan of boiling fat. As soon as the fillets are 
a nice pale brown (as they will be in two or three 
minutes, if the fat is a proper temperature,) turn 
them on to paper to absorb the grease ; serve as 
hot as possible. 

Fillets of Sole in Gravy. 

This is a nourishing and very tasty dish, and 
useful for re-warming cold fillets of sole. Half a 
sole may be used one day for plain fried fillets, the 
other half, without being removed from the bone 



64 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 

being laid in a very little vinegar until the next 
day. When required for use dry it thoroughly in 
a cloth, remove the fillets from the bone, cut into 
neat pieces, and dip in beaten ^gg, then in bread 
crumbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, and dried 
parsley. Fry in butter until brown, first on one 
side then on the other, taking care the fillets are 
only lightly cooked. Have ready a good brown 
gravy made from beef, thickened with French 
potato flour, and, if liked, flavoured with sherry. 
Put the fillets into it, and allow them to simmer 
gently for five minutes ; then serve. The bones 
and trimming of the sole fried brown, will be a 
useful addition to the gravy. 

WMting. 

This fish is very suitable for invalids, but requires 
to be nicely cooked and duly seasoned, or it will 
be found tasteless. It may be boiled in exactly 
the same manner as directed for sole, and served 
with sharp ^gg sauce. Small whiting answer well 
for boiling, and for this purpose must not be 
skinned ; they are also good baked, and should. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS, 65 

without being skinned, be prepared in the same 
manner as soles. For frying, when the fish is 
skinned, cleaned, and curled round, dip it in the 
yolk of an ^^g, and then in finely-sifted bread 
crumbs, highly seasoned with pepper and salt. 
Have plenty of boiling fat in a deep frying-pan or 
saucepan, and take care the fish is immersed in it. 
When nicely brown and crisp, take up the whiting 
with the fish slice, put it on paper for a minute or 
two, then transfer to another dish, and serve. 
Whiting are nice baked in butter sauce, with a very 
small quantity of shrimp sauce, a little lemon juice 
being added just before serving. 



Cod Cutlets. 

Take a slice about an inch thick from the tail 
end of the fish, rub it over with lemon juice, pepper 
and salt, and let it lie for an hour. Dry it in 
cloth, dip it in the yolk of an ^gg^ then in highly- 
seasoned bread crumbs mixed with a little dried and 
sifted parsley. Put the cutlet into the wire frying 
basket, and immerse in boiling fat. When done, 



66 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 

the fish will be perfectly firm, if tried with a fork, 
then take it up, drain, and serve. 

Sharp ^^^ sauce may be served with the cutlets, 
and a few well boiled and minced capers be added 
to it, if the patient likes them. 

Fried Herrings. 

A perfectly fresh herring properly fried may 
safely be given to delicate persons. As it is a rich 
fish, unless the oil is carefully extracted, it will be 
indigestible. Clean, wipe, lightly pepper, salt, and 
flour the herring, then put it into a frying-pan 
with sufficient boiling drippiiig to cover it. Fry for 
seven to ten minutes, according to size, take up the 
herring, lay it on a dish before the fire for a minute 
or two in order that all fat may run away from it, 
put it on another hot dish, and serve. 

Rolled Herrings. 

Herrings having hard roes appear larger and 
finer fish than those with soft roes ; nevertheless the 
latter are to be preferred, as they have really more 



COOKERY FOR IXVALIDS. 67 

flesh, and are more delicate. Having scraped and 
washed the fish, cut off the heads, split open, 
cleanse, and take out the roes. Take the herring 
in the left hand, and with the thumb and finger of 
the right press the backbone to loosen it, then lay 
the fish flat on the board and draw out the bone ; it 
will come out whole, leaving none behind. Sprinkle 
the herring with pepper, salt, and a little chopped 
green parsley ; lay on the soft roe, roll up tightly, 
leaving the fin and tail outwards, and bind round 
with a piece of tape to keep it in shape. Have ready 
some water, well seasoned with pepper, salt, and 
vinegar, and when it boils put in the herring, and 
let it simmer gently for ten minutes or until cooked. 
Serve it with butter, parsley, or sharp Qgg sauce 
poured over. 

Baked Haddock. 

The ordinary stuffing for this fish would generally 
be objectionable, as containing too much fat. The 
following, which will serve to givQ flavour to the 
fish, may be substituted : Soak the crumb of a roll 
in milk, squeeze it dry in a cloth, put it into a stew- 
pan with a piece of butter the size of a walnut. 



68 COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 

work it about until it becomes firm and compact ; 
then mix in the yolk of an egg, the grated peel and 
juice of half a lemon, a pinch of dried and sifted 
thyme, a teaspoonful of chopped green parsley, 
a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, and a small 
pinch of salt and pepper. When all is well 
incorporated, put the stuffing into the body of the 
fish, sew it up, and place in a baking dish with the 
following sauce : boil an onion in half a pint of 
milk for a quarter of an hour, remove the onion, 
thicken the milk with a dessertspoonful of flour, 
add a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy or shrimps, 
and pepper and salt, (if allowed, a little butter may 
be added to the sauce), pour over the fish, and place 
in a moderate oven for three quarters of an hour. 
Baste the fish with the sauce frequently ; take care 
it does not get brown. If the sauce becomes thick, 
add from time to time a little water, with a few 
drops of essence of anchovy. Serve on a very hot 
dish, with the sauce poured oven 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 69 



Fillets of Mackerel. 

This fish is not considered easy of digestion, and 
the bitter taste it often has, renders it disagreeable 
to many persons. There is reason to believe fresh 
mackerel to be both as wholesome and delicious as 
other fish, if properly treated by the cook, the fact 
being, that the want of proper cleaning gives to 
mackerel the bad qualities assigned to it Fish- 
mongers cannot clean mackerel properly without 
opening the fish and thus damaging its appearance, 
it must therefore be done by the cook. The brown 
substance adhering somewhat closely to the back- 
bone, near the head, is the cause of the bitter flavour, 
and it must be carefully removed. Open the fish, take 
out the roe, and with a cloth wipe away this brown 
substance. Remove the back-bone, taking care not 
to break the fish, with the scissors trim away the 
fins, divide the fish down the middle, sprinkle with 
pepper, salt, and flour ; place a piece of the roe, it 
must be soft roe for an invalid, on each half, roll up 
tightly, and place in a small baking or tart dish. 
If kept close together the fillets will retain their 



7o COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 

shape. Mix a dessertspoonful of flour in a table- 
spoonful of cold water, and stir on to it half a pint 
of boiling water, add a teaspoonful of Dinmore's 
essence of shrimps, and pour this sauce into the 
dish with the fish. Lay a piece of butter, the size 
of a nut, on each fillet, put the dish into a moderate 
oven, and bake for three quarters of an hour, or 
until done. Five minutes before serving, put a 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley to the fish. The 
sauce should be the thickness of nice butter sauce ; 
if too thin, before putting in the parsley, drain off 
the sauce, boil it up, add a little flour, and return to 
the fish ; let it remain in the oven for five minutes, 
and serve. 

Fillets of Plaice. 

The flavour of this fish will be improved by 
laying it in vinegar for an hour or two before cook- 
ing. Dry the fillets in a cloth, dip them in beaten 
^gg) and seasoned bread crumbs, and fry brown in 
boiling fat. Serve with lemon juice or acid sauce. 

The fillets may be cooked in the same manner as 
boiled sole. 



COOKER Y FOR INVALIDS. 7 1 



Scalloped Oysters. 

Having taken off the beards and hard white part, 
put them with the oyster liquor into a saucepan, 
and let them simmer for ten minutes. Spread an 
earthenware dish or scallop shells with a little 
dissolved butter, then put on a layer of bread 
crumbs about half an inch thick, and strain on to 
this the liquor from the oysters. Now place the 
oysters evenly on the crumbs, and then thoroughly 
cover them up with bread crumbs, lightly seasoned 
with pepper and salt. Spread butter thickly over the 
top, and bake in a quick oven for fifteen or twenty 
minutes. If necessary, brown the top with a 
salamander. 

Oyster Fritters. 

Procure fine fat cooking oysters, remove the hard 
white portion and the beards, put each oyster into 
a tablespoon, and fill it up with a batter made as 
follows : Mix one ounce of fine flour with three 
tablespoonfuls of water and two teaspoonfuls of 
the finest salad oil (measure these two last in a 



72 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 

medicine glass), now add half the yolk of an egg, 
a pinch of salt and pepper, and allow the batter to 
stand for an hour, or more, if convenient. When 
about to use, beat the white of an ^^^ to a strong 
froth, and mix lightly with the batter. Drop the 
oysters, coated with batter as directed, one by one 
into boiling fat. When they have fried half a 
minute, turn them on the other side, and in another 
half-minute or so remove them with a skimmer on 
to paper, and, having allowed them to drain a 
minute, serve immediately on a very hot dish. 
This quantity of batter will make quite six fritters. 

Oysters. 

When ordered for a case of great weakness 
oysters should be minced with a silver knife and 
fork. They may then be served plain, mixed with 
a few bread crumbs to absorb their liquor, or in 
a little thickened broth, flour or butter sauce. 

Butter Sauce. 

Mix a dessertspoonful of Vienna flour in a table- 
spoonful of cold water, pour on to it a quarter of 
a pint of fast boiling water ; stir over the fire in a 
bright stewpan until thickened, add salt and half 
an ounce of butter, stir until melted, and serve. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 73 



Parsley Sauce. 

Wash, pick, and chop parsley very fine, boil a 
dessertspoonful in a quarter of a pint of water for 
half a minute, then mix with flour as directed for 
butter sauce, and serve. 

Caper Sauce. 

Boil the capers in water until soft enough to 
mash. Make the sauce as for butter sauce with 
the water in which the capers have been boiled. 
Add a few drops of vinegar and a pinch of salt. 

Sharp Egg Sauce. 

Mix half an ounce of flour smoothly in two 
tablespoonfuls of cold water, pour on to it a quarter 
of a pint of boiling water, then stir over the fire 
until thickened ; season with pepper and salt, and 
add the yolks of two eggs beaten for a minute ; 
keep stirring the sauce at a slow heat for five 
minutes ; lastly, stir in gradually the juice of half 
a lemon or a dessertspoonful of the best French 
vinegar. Do not let the sauce boil after this 
addition. Serve it either over the fish or in a boat. 



74 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



White Sauce. 

This sauce may be made very good without 
butter, by using good veal or chicken broth and a 
httle cream or milk. Boil a quarter of a pint of 
white broth with an onion for half an hour, remove 
the onion, and stir in a dessertspoonful of flour 
mixed smoothly with two tablespoonfuls of cold 
milk ; stir the sauce over the fire until thick, then 
add two tablespoonfuls of good cream ; keep stirr- 
ing for two or three minutes, but do not let it boil ; 
add salt, and, if allowed, a little pepper or cayenne. 
The sauce can also be made with milk instead of 
broth, and, if too rich, the cream can be omitted. 

Anchovy Relish. 

A small quantity of this relish may, in many 
cases, be given with advantage, and is especially 
valuable when it will induce the invalid to eat 
bread plain or toasted. 

Procure the best anchovies, take them out of the 
pickle and steep them in milk for two hours, the 



COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 75 

bone will then come out easily. Wipe and trim 
the fish and pound it in a mortar, mix it with a 
little clarified beef suet into a nice paste, spread 
on toast or thin water biscuits. Butter may be 
substituted for the beef suet, but the latter is best. 
To clarify the suet — shred it finely, put it in a 
clean saucepan and boil until dissolved, then strain 
it into a basin of boiling water, let it stand until 
cold, remove the cake of fat, scrape dry and put 
away in paper for use. It can be employed in 
many cases instead of butter, and is more whole- 
some. The relish may be made from anchovies 
preserved in oil by the French process, the bone 
having been previously extracted. 

To Pot Meat. 
Draw the Gravy from beef in the same way as 
directed for Extract of Beef, pound it to a fine 
paste, put it into a large jam pot, add an anchovy 
or part of one, prepared as above, and a quarter of 
the weight of the meat in clarified suet or butter, 
season to taste. Put the jar covered over into a 
saucepan containing a little water, let the meat get 
hot, when done stir until cold, press into pots and 
cover with clarified suet 



LITTLE DISHES. 

Where there is no question of expense there need 
be no difficulty in providing dehcacies for an invaHd. 
In such a case the best of everything will of course 
be chosen, and the utmost care taken in its prepara- 
tion. But to many people it is a serious anxiety 
to provide what is necessary at a reasonable cost, 
and it is to meet this difficulty that the following 
recipes have been prepared. There is an old and 
good rule for the choice of provisions — "What 
pleases the eye will please the palate;" and it 
should be specially borne in mind and applied when 
catering for the sick. The sight of a whole joint, 
or even of a fowl, will sometimes have the effect of 
destroying all relish for food ; whilst the delicate 
morsel carefully chosen and neatly arranged on a 
plate will be very likely to tempt the appetite. If it 
is necessary to provide a varied diet for the healtliy, 



COOKER V FOR INVALIDS, jy 

still more necessary is it for the invalid, and some 
of the following recipes will show how chicken, 
sweetbread, &c., may be served in different modes 
w^ithout satiating the patient by the frequent sight 
of the same thing. First among our "Little 
Dishes " must be placed the familiar. 

Mutton Chop. 

Opinions are somewhat divided as to which is 
the best chop of the loin. Some think the first 
with its long bone by far the sweetest, and this may 
be so ; but then it has not the fillet belonging to its 
rival, the middle chop, nor is it so juicy ; whichever 
is chosen, care must be taken to trim it very neatly, 
removing the top and nearly all the fat. Before 
trimming, a chop for an invalid should not weigh 
more than seven ounces. It should be taken from 
a loin of full-grown mutton, which is rather dark- 
looking, and the lean slightly streaked with fat. 
Have a perfectly clean and if possible bright grid- 
iron ; place the chop on it over a clear, hot, but 
not fierce fire, taking care that the outside is not 
the least burnt, for if it is the chop is rendered hard 



78 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 

and indigestible, and the flavour spoiled. When 
the chop has been on the gridiron for one minute 
turn it, and repeat the turning every minute until 
it is done ; this prevents loss of the juices, and the 
chop from becoming hard on the outside. In from 
eight to ten minutes, a chop cooked under proper 
conditions will be done ; it will be a nice brown 
on either side, be plump, and give a stream of gravy 
when cut. When the chop is last turned on each 
side, sprinkle lightly with salt and pepper, lay it on 
the plate from which it is to be eaten, and serve 
instantly as hot as possible. It never ought to be 
necessary to cut a chop to ascertain if it is done ; 
the time given to it, the nature of the fire, and its 
appearance, should sufficiently indicate this. Those 
who possess a gas stove will find chops are cooked 
exquisitely by Leoni's patent heat reflector. 

Fillets of Mutton Cutlets. 

Remove the undercut from about two pounds of 
the middle of a fine loin of mutton ; this will not 
interfere with the upper side being used either for 
chops, cutlets, or roasting. Trim the fillet of all fat 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 79 

and skin, and cut into slices the short way, about 
half an inch thick. Flatten the cutlets with the 
bat, dip them in ^^^^ then in bread crumbs, 
seasoned with pepper and salt, and let them lie for 
an hour. Fry them gently in a little butter, first 
on one side, then on the other, until thoroughly 
cooked, and a nice crisp brown. Serve with 
asparagus, cauliflower, or seakale. These cutlets 
are more tender and digestible than those of the 
upper side of the loin ; they may, if preferred, be 
broiled. 

Neck of Mutton Cutlets. 

Saw the spine bone from the cutlets, and take 
away about an inch of meat from the long bone ; 
remove all gristle and as much of the fat as 
possible, then flatten the cutlets with the bat ; dip 
them in ^g%, and pass them through very finely 
sifted bread crumbs, seasoned with pepper and 
salt, and fry slowly. Six or seven minutes will 
cook the cutlets ; they should not be very brown. 
If allowed, mash two potatoes smoothly, beat them 
with a spoonful of cream, season with pepper and 
salt, and arrange neatly in the centre of a small 



8o COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 

dish ; then place the cutlets one on each side, and 
serve. If preferred, sprigs of cauliflower, dipped in 
white sauce, may be substituted for the potatoes. 

Loin of Mutton Cutlets. 

A single mutton chop, cut from the bone, and 
divided down the middle, will answer well for this 
little dish. Trim away nearly all the fat ; dip the cut- 
lets in the beaten yolk of an ^g^, then in seasoned 
bread crumbs ; and fry quickly in a little butter, 
first on one side, then on the other, until brown. 
Serve with a puree of onions, which, properly 
cooked, are generally suitable for invalids, or with 
plainly boiled onions. To make the puree : Boil 
three or four onions until very tender, rub them 
through a sieve, then return them to the stewpan 
with a very small piece of butter or a spoonful of 
cream, pepper and salt to taste. Work the puree 
with a wooden spoon over the fire until it becomes 
thick enough, then place in the centre of the dish 
and the cutlets, one on each side. The yolk of an 
^gg will add to the nourishment of the puree, and 
may be stirred in with the butter. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 8i 



Shoulder of Mutton Cutlets. 

With a sharp knife cut two thin sHces from the 
lean undercut of an uncooked shoulder of mutton, 
sprinkle then lightly with salt, and if allowed a 
little pepper. Put half an ounce of butter into a 
small frying pan and when it is hot put in the slices 
of mutton. Let them cook very slowly, turning 
frequently until done. Put the cutlets on to a hot 
plate and pour over them a spoonful or two of good 
beef tea or gravy thickened with flour. If preferred, 
the cutlets may be broiled, and in either case the 
cooking must proceed slowly or the meat will 
become dry and hard. 

Stewed Mutton Chop. 

Trim away nearly all the fat from a thick chop 
taken from the middle of the loin ; place it in a 
small brown earthenware stewing-pot, add a large 
pinch of salt, a small one of pepper, and a finely- 
minced onion. If this last is objected to it must 
be omitted. Cover the chop with water, put on 



82 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 

the lid of the pot set it in a saucepan of water, and 
let it boil gently for an hour and a half, or until 
perfectly tender. When done, drain away the 
gravy from the chop, put it in a basin, which set in 
another containing cold water, in order that the fat 
may rise quickly. Having carefully removed every 
particle of grease from the gravy, boil it in a stew- 
pan, and thicken it with a teaspoonful of flour mixed 
in cold water, until smooth. Put the gravy into the 
stewing-pot with the chop, let them simmer gently 
for ten minutes, and serve. — If preferred, the raw 
lean meat of the chop may be minced, put into a 
stewpan with a little hot beef tea, seasoned and 
flavoured with vegetables, and allowed to stand at 
a heat below simmering point for fifteen minutes. 

Lamb Cutlets. 

Procure the first two chops of a neck of lamb, 
or, if early in the season, one from the loin ; cut the 
meat from the bone, trim away nearly all the fat, and 
divide the chop into two slices. Dip the cutlets in 
^gg> then crumb them and fry gently in butter 
until brown. Serve with a little beef gravy 
thickened and slightly flavoured with lemon 
juice. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 83 



Beef Cutlets. 

To vary the mutton chop by an almost equal 
digestible morsel of meat is a great point. There is, 
however, some little prejudice in England, and no 
little ignorance, on the subject of beef cutlets or fillet 
steaks. They are voted tasteless, and many people 
suppose they can only be had from the undercut of 
the sirloin. Butchers, however, will not cut cutlets 
properly, and the best way is to buy the whole 
undercut of the rump and divide it into cutlets at 
home. A portion of this fillet of beef can be reserved 
for a roast, and is always improved by being lightly 
salted and peppered, and hung in a cool place for a 
day. In warm weather the meat should be carefully 
rubbed over with vinegar before it is sprinkled with 
salt and pepper. For cutlets, trim away every par- 
ticle of skin and fat, leaving only the delicate round 
fillet, which divide into slices half an inch thick. 
Lightly pepper and salt the cutlets, and set them 
aside on a plate for two hours or more ; then broil 
them slowly, turning often, for five or six minutes. 
They can either be served plainly, or with a piece of 



84 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



fine fresh butter the size of a filbert, mixed with 
chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, laid on each 
cutlet the moment before serving. 

Beef Cutlet Saut6. 

Prepare the cutlets as for broiling, have ready in 
the frying-pan, which should be of the smallest size 
and perfectly clean, a small piece of dissolved 
butter, put in the cutlet, let it cook as gently as 
possible for half a minute, then turn it on the other 
side for the same time, and so continue turning 
until the cutlet is done. If parsley is liked, when 
the cutlet is last turned sprinkle a little nicely 
chopped on the upper side, put the cutlet on to a 
very hot plate, pour over it any gravy which may 
be in the pan, and serve very hot. A slice taken 
from the undercut of the sirloin may be cooked 
in this way. The great art of serving this little 
dish to perfection lies in slow cooking and frequent 
turning. It is one generally much appreciated by 
invalids, as it is both tender and tasty. 



CO OKER V FOR IN FA LIDS. 85 



Stewed Beef. 

Take half a pound of fine beef buttock steak, free 
from fat, cut it into neat small dice. Have ready 
a quarter of a pint of boiling water in a clean 
stewpan, put in the meat with a large pinch of salt, 
a shake of pepper, and a small onion minced very 
fine. Let the meat boil for half a minute sharply, 
then reduce the heat, and let it continue simmering 
for an hour, or until perfectly tender. Mix a small 
dessertspoonful of flour in two tablespoonfuls of 
cold water, stir into the beef, let it thicken, and 
serve. This is a nice tasty and digestible dish : 
children generally like it. 

Tripe. 

Tripe IS exceedingly well suited to delicate 
digestions. There is some little difficulty in mak- 
ing it savoury without the use of onions, but where 
these are not objected to, it will be found very 
useful as a change from fish and other light diet. 

When tripe comes in from the shop, it should be 



86 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 

considered only half-cooked, and from two to three 
hours is not too long to simmer it. 

For tripe ait blanc, put half a pound in a stew- 
pan with a quarter of a pint of water, a salt-spoon 
of salt, a pinch of pepper, and two minced onions. 
Let it simmer gently for two hours, or until 
perfectly tender. Then strain the gravy, take off 
every particle of fat, boil it up, and thicken it with 
a small dessertspoonful of flour mixed smooth in 
two or three tablespoonfuls of cream or milk. Put 
the tripe back into this sauce, and let it simmer 
very gently for a quarter of an hour. 

To stew tripe brown, put it into beef-tea or good 
gravy instead of w^ater, and thicken it with a 
teaspoonful of Feciile de pomme de terre mixed 
smooth in gravy. 

Lemon juice or a few drops of French vinegar 
are good additions to tripe. 

Veal Cutlet. 

Veal IS not generally well adapted to weak 
digestions, yet a cutlet taken from a fine neck of 
veal is tender and may occasionally be useful. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Sy 

Get a chop from the best end of the neck of veal, 
and do not be persuaded that a cutlet from the leg 
will do equally well. Cut the meat from the bone 
with a sharp knife and divide it into two slices. 
Dip them in ^^g and bread crumbs, and fry slowly 
in a little butter. 



Minced Meat. 

This is a most useful form of administering food 
to persons of weak digestion ; the sameness of it is 
a drawback, but can be obviated by care and 
attention. A slice from a hot leg of mutton, a 
chop lightly cooked, or the wing of a fowl, may be 
most satisfactorily prepared; but cold or re-warmed 
meat must not be used for invalids. The small 
mincing machine, called a " Masticator," one of 
Kent's patents, is indispensable for this purpose. 
Before putting in the meat, care should be taken 
to make the machine thoroughly hot, and a very 
hot plate should be placed to receive it. Another 
plate, also very hot, should be ready with which to 
cover the meat. It will probably then be hot 
enough to serve, but, if not, may be placed on the 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



top of the oven or range for about a minute. A 
drop or two of chili or shalot vinegar will give 
variety to the mince when it has to be served from 
day to day, and, when not objected to, a well- 
cooked and minced onion may be used to 
advantage, or the dish may be slightly rubbed with 
shalot or garlic. Pounded meat is frequently 
ordered for cases of great weakness of the digestive 
organs. The same rules as for minced mf>at must 
be observed, and care be taken that the mortar is 
scrupulously clean and thoroughly hot before com- 
mencing the operation. 

Calf s Sweetbread. 

There is perhaps no food so suited to invalids as 
sweetbread, but unfortunately they soon tire of it, 
and the greatest care should be given to heighten 
the flavour of this delicacy by the judicious use of 
lemon juice, herbs, and onions. Whatever may be 
the after-treatment of sweetbread, it is necessary in 
the first place to parboil it, and it is on the skill 
and care with which this preliminary treatment is 
carried out that the excellence of the dish depends. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 89 

Have ready a pint of good white stock, well 
flavoured with onion, and let the sweetbread 
simmer gently from twenty minutes to half an 
hour. Take it up and divide in half, as this 
quantity will generally be enough for an invalid. 
Set one half aside until the next day, and cook the 
other as follows : Make a sauce as for fricassee of 
chicken, put the sweetbread into it and let them 
simmer together for a quarter of an hour, then stir 
into the sauce as much lemon juice as will give an 
agreeable sharpness. Serve with neat squares of 
toasted bacon. The remaining half can either be 
browned in the Dutch oven or made into cutlets. 
To brown the sweetbread, dip it into the beaten 
yolk of an ^g%, then into bread crumbs seasoned 
with pepper and salt ; put it into the Dutch oven 
and baste frequently with butter until nicely 
browned. Serve either with a good brown gravy 
or tomato sauce. For cutlets, divide the sweet- 
bread, after it has been parboiled, into slices, ^^^, 
bread crumb, and fry them in butter ; serve plain 
or with a good thick brown gravy. The sweetbread 
called " the heart" is better than " the throat ;" 
either of them, before being parboiled, must be 



90 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



carefully washed and trimmed from skin and 
gristle. 

Calf's Liver Saut6. 

Put a bit of butter the size of a walnut in a 
small stewpan ; when dissolved, let a shalot stand 
in it for five minutes ; take out the shalot and place 
in the stewpan a slice of fine and perfectly fresh 
calf's liver, sprinkle it with pepper and salt and 
chopped parsley. Set the stewpan at a very low 
heat so that the liver does not even simmer for 
half an hour, then turn the liver and let it remain 
cooking gently in its own juices for another half 
hour. Be careful to keep the heat low, and if 
necessary stand the stewpan on a trivet, for if the 
liver simmers it will be hardened and be unfit for 
an invaUd. At the expiration of the hour, put the 
liver between two hot plates whilst you prepare the 
o-ravy. Put a tablespoonful of beef-tea or any 
broth into the stewpan, stir it up with the gravy 
from the liver, let it boil for half a minute, pour 
over the liver, and serve. 

This little dish is wholesome and digestible, and 
for those who like liver will be found useful. 



COOKER Y FOR INVALIDS. 91 



Lamb's Sweetbreads. 

Some care is necessary in choosing these, for, if 
the lamb is not itself young and tender, the sweet- 
breads will be stringy and unpleasant to eat. Parboil 
them in exactly the same way as calf s sweetbread ; 
dip them in ^g^ and seasoned bread crumbs, and 
fry in a little batter until brown. Toasted bacon 
may be served with the sweetbreads ; in this case 
no gravy will be required. 

Sheep's Brains. 

Having carefully washed the brains, boil them 
very fast for ten minutes, in order to harden them, 
in good, highly-seasoned gravy. When done, take 
them up, and allow them to remain until cold ; 
then divide each lobe into slices, and dip them in 
cg^ and seasoned bread crumbs. Fry, and serve as 
directed for sweetbreads. 



92 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 

Brain Cakes. 

Boil the brains as directed above ; mince them, 
and to each tablespoonful of the mince add a tea- 
spoonful of bread crumbs, enough &^^ to bind 
them, pepper and salt to taste, and a pinch of 
chopped parsley. Take a small lump of the mince, 
flour your hands, roll it into a ball, and then flatten 
into a cake : dip in egg and seasoned bread crumbs, 
fry in a little butter, first on one side then on the 
other, until a nice brown. Serve with gravy or 
toasted bacon. 

Quenelles. 

This is a simple recipe, and well suited for 
invalids who require light food with little flavouring. 
Soak the crumb of a French roll in a quarter of a 
pint of milk, press out the moisture by wringing the 
roll in a cloth ; put a piece of fine fresh butter the 
size of a small walnut into the stewpan ; when it is 
melted put in the soaked roll, and work over the 
fire until the paste becomes dry and does not adhere 
to the stewpan ; add an ^gg, and again work the 



COOKER V FOR IN VALIDS. 93 

paste until dry. Pound the meat of the breast of a 
fowl in a mortar, mix it with the paste, and work 
together in the mortar until thoroughly incor- 
porated; work in the yolk of another egg, and set 
the mixture in a cool place for an hour or two. 
Salt is to be added according to taste, and, if Hked, a 
pinch of pepper may be used. When ready to cook 
the quenelles, flour your hands, take a piece of the 
paste the size of a dessert-spoon, and roll into an 
egg-shaped ball. When all are ready, drop them one 
by one into slightly-salted boihng water, and poach 
them until they rise to the surface ; they will take 
five or six minutes to cook. Serve immediately 
on a napkin. Half the above quantities will make 
a dish generally sufficient for an invalid. Veal may 
be substituted for fowl, and should be used in equal 
weight with the panada or paste. 

CMckens. 

One chicken may be made to serve for two ex- 
cellent meals by dividing it down the middle, using 
each half for boiling, roasting, broiling, stewing, or 
as a fricassee. 



94 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS, 

For Boiling. — Put the half chicken into 
enough weak stock, well seasoned with salt, and 
boiling, and after a minute reduce the heat, and 
keep the chicken gently simmering for half an hour, 
more or less, according to size. Serve with parsley 
or white sauce, and, if allowed, garnish with little 
rolls of toasted bacon. An onion boiled in the stock 
gives flavour to the chicken, and sweet herbs may 
also be used. 

For Roasting. — Brush over the half chicken with 
dissolved butter; put it in the Dutch oven, and baste 
continually with butter or lard for half an hour ; 
take care it is nicely browned. Or, fasten a thick 
slice of fat bacon over the breast, and roast the 
chicken before the fire; five minutes before serving 
remove the bacon and let the skin get a nice 
brown. 

For Broiling. — Dip the half chicken in dissolved 
butter, and place it on a gridiron over a slow fire, 
the bones being downwards ; let it remain thus for 
a quarter of an hour, basting the chicken occasion- 
ally with a little butter tied in muslin. Turn the 
chicken at the expiration of a quarter of an hour, 
taking great care it does not stick to the gridiron 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 95 

or become the least burned. In ten minutes again 
turn the chicken, and repeat the basting for another 
five minutes. Again turn the meat to the fire, and 
when it has remained five more minutes it should be 
nicely cooked. Broiled chicken is delicious and 
digestible, and can be successfully cooked if constant 
attention is given during the entire process. 
Sprinkle pepper and salt over, and serve. 

For Ste\yixg. — Have ready sufficient good veal 
broth, or beaf-tea, to cover the chicken; keep it 
simmering very gently for three-quarters of an hour. 
Take up the chicken, and keep it warm, whilst you 
skim and slightly thicken the gravy ; when this is 
done, return the chicken, allow it to get thoroughly 
hot, and serve. If allowed, the gravy should be 
flavoured with onion, and nicely seasoned with 
pepper and salt. French beans go well with this 
dish. 

For a Fricassee, stew the chicken until tender 
in white veal stock ; when done, cut it into joints 
and put it into the following sauce ; boil an onion, a 
sprig of thyme, and a small piece of lemon peel, in 
half a pint of milk, until reduced to a quarter of a 
pint. Mix a dessertspoonful of boiled flour, or other 



q6 cookery for invalids. 

thickening, in two or three of cold milk or cream ; 
strain, and stir the boiling milk into it, let it thicken 
over the fire, season nicely with pepper and salt, 
put in the joints of the chicken, let them stand in 
the sauce for ten minutes, and get hot without 
boiling. The liquor in which the chicken was 
stewed will make a cup of delicious broth for the 
next day's luncheon. 

For Chicken Saut6. — With a sharp knife 
cut the skin of the chicken just over the pinion 
bone and down to the leg, turn it back, leave it 
on the chicken and cut off the wing and if neces- 
sary a slice of the breast. Put half an ounce of 
fresh butter into a small frying pan with a small 
slice of fat bacon, which fry gently until cooked, 
take it out and put the wing of the chicken 
lightly peppered and salted into the pan. Cook 
very slowly, turning every minute until the chicken 
is done. It will take about ten minutes, and if 
carefully cooked will not be hard on the outside, 
but be a tender and delicious morsel. The re- 
moval of one or both of the wings will not prevent 
the remainder of the fowl being successfully roasted 
or boiled. Carefully turn the skin into its place 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 97 

and sew it to that of the back, then roast or boil in 
the usual manner. 



Stewed Partridge. 

Truss a partridge as for roasting, it should not 
be high ; put it into a stewpan with half a pint of 
good stock or beef-tea, let it simmer gently for 
three quarters of an hour. Take it up, brush the 
breast over with yolk of &^g, sprinkle it with 
pepper, salt, and sifted bread crumbs, and brown 
in the Dutch oven. Thicken the gravy, and serve 
with the bird. 

Stewed Pigeon. 

Take care that the bird is perfectly fresh, young, 
and plump. Before trussing, as for roasting, put 
in the body a minced shalot mixed with an ounce 
of cooked fat bacon, fasten it securely, and put the 
pigeon into sufficient beef-tea or good stock to 
half cover it. Let it simmer very gently for an 
hour, or until perfectly tender. Take it up, brush 
the breast over with the yolk of an ^gg, and 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



sprinkle it with fine bread crumbs, put it in the 
Dutch oven to brown, basting it with a httle fresh 
butter. Take off all the fat from the gravy, which 
reduce a little by boiling it in the stewpan without 
the lid, add a very Httle flour to thicken it, pour 
round the pigeon, and serve ; pepper and salt to be 
added to the gravy and seasoning, according to 
taste. 

Fricassee of Rabbit. 

It must be stated that the flesh of the rabbit 
does not rank high as an article of diet for invalids, 
and unless well and judiciously cooked, is decidedly 
indigestible. Nevertheless rabbit is often accept- 
able by way of a change, and may therefore be 
given to convalescents with whom it has not been 
found to disagree. 

Put the rabbit into a saucepan of boiling water 
with two onions, a turnip, and a small piece of 
pickled pork or bacon ; if these last are mild, add a 
little salt and three or four white peppercorns. 
Let the saucepan boil sharply for two minutes, 
remove all the scum which has risen, and then 
allow it to simmer for about an hour, or until the 



COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 99 

rabbit is perfectly tender. It may be served thus 
with a httle of the broth with parsley, white, or 
onion sauce, or as a fricassee. 

Make a sauce for the fricassee by boiling an 
onion and a sprig of thyme in a pint of milk, let 
it reduce to half a pint, add a grate of nutmeg, and 
pepper and salt to taste. Mix a tablespoonful of 
flour in a quarter of a pint of cold milk or cream, 
stir into the boiling milk over the fire, and when 
it has thickened, put in the best joints of the 
rabbit, and let them stand for a quarter of an hour 
in the sauce, getting thoroughly hot without 
boiling. Arrange the rabbit neatly on the dish 
for serving, pour the sauce over it, and, if allowed, 
place round the dish little slices of boiled bacon, 
or of the bacon cooked with the rabbit 

The liquor in which the rabbit has stewed will 
make excellent broth, or serve as stock for making 
soup. 

Croquettes. 

Chop very fine the best parts of any game or 
chicken, and mix it with the following sauce : — 
Boil a tablespoonful of flour in a quarter of a pint 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



of water, stirring all the time to prevent burning, 
as it will be very thick ; if allowed, stir in an ounce 
of butter, if not, finish the sauce without it, by- 
mixing in the yolks of two eggs. To two spoon- 
fuls of the sauce, take four of minced meat, and 
mix together, seasoning to taste. Spread the 
mixture on a dish, until cold, when it will be a 
stiff paste. Put some bread crumbs on your hand, 
take enough of the croquette paste to make a 
small ball, and having rolled it into shape, dip in 
beaten ^gg, then in finely sifted crumbs ; use all 
the paste in this manner, put the croquettes into 
the wire basket, and fry in boiling fat until a 
golden colour ; they will be done in less than a 
minute. Turn the croquettes on to paper, to 
absorb the grease, and serve on a napkin. 




VEGETABLES. 



Fried Potatoes. 



Potatoes, properly fried, may occasionally be 
served with the chop or cutlet, and are more 
digestible and nourishing than when plainly boiled. 
This remark, however, applies only to potatoes fried 
in perfection and served immediately they are 
done, as they lose their crispness by standing. 
Peel fine kidney potatoes and slice them as thin as 
you can, — unless they are preferred thicker ; as 
you do the chips throw them into cold water as this 
frees them from the potato flour which has a 
tendency to prevent successful frying. Drain and 
lay them in a cloth to dry, put them into a wire 
basket, fry in boiling fat, and when the chips are 
brown, put them between paper in the oven for a 
minute, turn them on to a dish, sprinkle with salt, 



102 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 

and serve. The greatest care must be taken to 
have the fat the right temperature for frying the 
potatoes, as otherwise they will be sodden with 
grease. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Mash or rub through a wire sieve potatoes 
steamed very dry, add to them a little salt and 
sufficient yolk of ^^^ to make the puree into a 
stiff paste. Put a few bread crumbs on your left 
hand, take enough of the potato puree to make a 
small ball, roll it into shape, dip it in ^g% and 
crumbs lightly salted, — and if you desire to have a 
nice crust to the croquettes, repeat the process of egg- 
crumbling. When all the croquettes are ready, put 
them in a wire basket, which immerse in a stewpan 
half full of boiling fat. Shake the basket lightly, 
and as soon as the croquettes assume a golden 
tinge, put them on paper to absorb all the fat 
chnging to them, and serve. Care must be taken 
to have the fat a proper temperature for frying, 
otherwise the croquettes will be greasy or burst, 
and be rendered wholly unfit for an invalid's table. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 103 

Greens. 

General directions for boiling these can only be 
given, as there are so many kinds varying also in 
age and quality, and therefore taking more or less 
time to cook. 

It is customary to put soda into the water in which 
greens are boiled in order to preserve their colour, 
but this practice deprives them of the properties 
which render them valuable as an article of diet. 
When fresh, the colour should be preserved without 
difficulty, and as only perfectly fresh green vege- 
tables must be given to invalids, soda will not be 
necessary. 

Having carefully picked the greens, put them for 
a few minutes in tepid water, wash them thoroughly, 
drain, and throw them into a large saucepan of fast- 
boiling water slightly salted. Keep the lid off the 
saucepan, and as soon as the greens are tender 
strain them through a colander. Have ready a 
tin vegetable presser, heated by pouring over it 
the water from the greens, press them into it, taking 
care that they become perfectly dry. Put them 
into a hot dish, and serve. 



I04 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



Cauliflower. 

For an invalid, cauliflower is best boiled in 
branches. Choose a close white head, let it 
lie a few minutes in tepid water, break it up into 
branches, throw them into boiling water with a 
little salt, when tender, as they will be in from five to 
ten minutes, drain them, and serve either plain, 
in good gravy, in butter, or white sauce. 

Spinach. 

Pick the spinach free from all stalk, wash it 
thoroughly in several waters until sure it is perfectly 
free from grit, drain it well in a colander, and put 
it in a saucepan with a small teaspoonful of salt to a 
pound of spinach, — no water. Cover the sauce- 
pan, shaking and stirring to prevent the spinach 
burning. In a few minutes the juices of the 
spinach will be drawn, then uncover the saucepan, 
and let it boil gently until tender. Strain the 
spinach, and put it into the vegetable presser, 
squeeze very dry, and serve. Spinach thus cooked 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 105 

will be found a fine colour and far better than 
when boiled in water. 



Asparagus. 

For invalids the green kind should be chosen, 
that which is blanched being stronger and less 
digestible. Having washed, trimmed, and scraped 
the asparagus, tie it into a little bundle, put it into 
boiling water with a pinch of salt, and boil until 
tender. Drain the asparagus, cut the string and 
lay it neatly on a piece of toasted bread. If it may 
be allowed, instead of putting the asparagus on 
toast, pour over it a little dissolved butter, drain it 
away, and serve. 

French Beans. 

These should be very small and young, in 
order that they may be cooked whole. Pick, 
throw them into fast boiling water, and boil in an 
uncovered stewpan until tender. They can be 
served plain, or, when drained, be put into a stew- 
pan in which a small piece of butter has been 



io6 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



dissolved, and a squeeze of lemon juice added. 
Toss them about over the fire for four minutes and 
they will be ready. 

To dress scarlet runners — wash them before 
slicing, do not cut them into thin strips, but divide 
each bean into three or four pieces. When cut so 
fine beans lose all their flavour. Do not again wash 
the beans, boil them as directed for French Beans. 

Sea Kale. 

Trim the kale neatly, brush it to free it from 
dust, then rinse it in tepid water, tie into a small 
bundle and boil for about twenty minutes in 
sufficient salted water to cover it. When done drain 
the kale perfectly dry and serve on toast. 

Onions. 

The value of onions in many cases of illness Is 
not well understood ; whenever the doctor allows 
them they should be freely used. One caution is, 
however, necessary, — onions require to be most 
thoroughly cooked, and being so, seldom disagree 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 107 

with the most dehcate stomach. Put the onions 
to boil in plenty of water, with a little salt, in half- 
an-hour pour away the first water and put fresh. 
Let the onions boil slowly for three hours, or until 
so tender they can be pierced with a straw, then 
drain away the water, put a small piece of butter 
into the saucepan, and toss the onions in it over the 
fire for five minutes. Serve, either with or without 
the butter, according to the taste of the patient. 

Vegetable Marrow. 

Choose a small quickly grown marrow of a pale 
green colour, wash it, do not cut or prick it in any 
way beyond cutting off the stem. Put it into boil- 
ing water with a little salt and keep it boiling fast 
until tender ; it will probably take half-an-hour, but 
the time depends on the size and quality of the 
marrow. When done, take it up, cut in quarters, and 
with a spoon remove the seeds. If allowed, put a 
little fine fresh butter on each piece, and serve. 
Vegetable marrow should not be pared or divided 
before cooking, as much of its flavour is thereby 
sacrificed. 



io8 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



Stewed Endive. 

Choose a fine white head, wash, pick, and pour 
boiling water over, let it lie for ten minutes, then 
squeeze perfectly dry, chop, and put it into a 
stewpan with a teaspoonful of salt and a cupful 
of white broth or milk. Having stewed the endive 
until tender, add enough potato flour to make 
the sauce thick, and when ready to serve stir in a 
little lemon juice. 

Stewed Water-Cress. 

Well wash and pick the cress, put them into 
boiling water with a little salt, and boil them for 
ten minutes. Drain as dry as possible and mince 
them, then put them back into the stewpan with a 
spoonful of gravy, and stew until tender. When 
ready to serve, add a few drops of lemon juice. 

Vegetable Puree. 

The method of making vegetable purees is in 
all cases the same. Boil the vegetable until tender, 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 109 

rub it through a wire sieve, and when this process 
is completed, put the puree, with a small quantity 
of butter, stock, milk, or cream, into a stewpan, stir 
over the fire until it becomes thick. 



Tomato Sauce. 

Choose ripe, perfectly sound tomatoes, break 
them into small pieces, put them in a stewpan with 
a very small bit of butter or a spoonful of gravy, 
salt, and, if allowed, pepper. Let them simmer 
gently for three-quarters of an hour, then rub 
through a sieve, taking care that none of the seeds 
get into the puree, which put back into the stewpan 
and stir over the fire until it is as thick as good 
apple sauce. 




PUDDINGS FOR INVALIDS AND CHILDREN. 

There can be no doubt that milk puddings are 
an essential in the dietary of children, but from 
their too frequent repetition it often becomes 
impossible to get them eaten. There is an especial 
difficulty with rice, and this is easily accounted for 
by the method of its preparation, which is too 
often monotonous and insipid. Whenever a child 
shows a marked distaste for any particular dish, it 
should not again be offered him for a week or two, 
and it should then be served in a different form. If 
plain rice pudding is objected to, let rice be next 
served in the form of croquets ; probably the plain 
pudding, with the addition of a little lemon juice, 
will afterwards be readily accepted. Macaroni, if 
judiciously served, is generally liked, and is most 
valuable. It should always be broken into very 
small pieces for children. Italian pastine is often 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



liked when macaroni is objected to, and it makes 
light and delicious puddings. 

Suet puddings, if properly prepared, may be 
given to children who have fair digestions on days 
when fish, soup or eggs are substituted for meat, 
but puddings made of dripping are generally inad- 
missible. Suet should be scraped, not chopped, and 
in all cases the crust must be dry and well boiled. 

In making puddings with milk and eggs, the milk 
must always be boiled, as this prevents curdling. 
Lump sugar is now so cheap, that it may with 
advantage be substituted for raw in all delicate 
puddings. It is a good plan to boil the sugar with 
the milk, and then pour them on the eggs. Very 
slow baking is absolutely necessary for all pud- 
dings which have custard ; if quickly baked, the 
custard is often mixed with the more solid portion 
of the pudding, and it is also rendered tough and 
unsuitable for children or invalids, whereas if slowly 
baked the custard, even when one ^gg is used, 
will be in considerable proportion to the other in- 
gredients. 

Whites of eggs make good puddings for children, 
and three whites should be calculated as one Q.%g. 



1 12 COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 

The custard from whites of eggs is excellent, and 
only to be distinguished from that made with the 
yolks added by its pale colour. 

Fried bread will be found not only an economi- 
cal, but a nourishing and delicious accompaniment 
to stewed fruits, and there are very few children who 
will not eat it. By fried bread is not meant either 
bread sodden in grease in the frying pan, or bread 
unduly hardened in boiling fat, because in either 
case it is most unwholesome. Bread properly fried 
will be just crisp, and a golden brown on the out- 
side, and not the least hard. If the fat is a proper 
temperature, bread, to be properly fried, will not 
require to be immersed in it for more than half a 
minute. Great care should be taken in flavouring 
puddings for children. Bought essences, as a rule, 
are objectionable, whilst flavourings may be easily 
and cheaply made at home by infusing lemon peel, 
almonds, or vanilla in spirit. A small quantity of 
either of these gives an agreeable flavour, and will 
be found harmless. The lemon peel and almonds, 
when the liquor is poured off, will retain some 
flavour, and will be useful for several culinary 
purposes. 



COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 1 1 3 

It is often necessary to give farinaceous sub- 
stances and eggs to invalids in the form of pud- 
dings, and yet to avoid sugar. In such cases, the 
five following recipes for savoury puddings will 
be found useful. 



Savoury Rice Pudding. 

Wash one ounce of the finest rice, put it in a 
pie dish with half a pint of beef-tea or any kind 
of broth. Bake until the rice is well cooked ; it 
will take about an hour in a moderate oven. Boil 
a quarter of a pint of milk, pour it on to an ^g^ 
lightly beaten, stir well together, and then mix 
with the rice. Season with salt, and, if allowed, 
a little pepper. Put the pudding into the pie dish, 
bake very slowly for an hour and a half, and 
serve. 

Savoury Macaroni Pudding. 

Break half an ounce of best Italian macaroni into 
half a pint of veal broth or weak beef-tea, and let 
it boil for an hour, or until well swelled and per- 
fectly tender. Make a custard as for savoury rice 

11 



1 1 4 COOKER y FOR INVALIDS. 

pudding, put it with the macaroni into a tart dish, 
season to taste, and bake gently for an hour and 
a half. 

Savoury Bread Pudding. 

Pour hali a pint of beef-tea, boiling, over the 
crumb of a French roll. Beat well together, and 
let it soak for hah an hour; then add two eggs 
beaten with a quarter of a pint of boiling milk. 
Season with pepper and salt, beat together for five 
minutes, put the pudding into a buttered tart dish, 
and bake rather quickly for three-quarters of an 
hour. If there is no objection, an onion, well boiled 
and beaten to a pulp, may be added to the 
pudding. 

Brown Biscuit Pudding. 

Soak a Blatchley's biscuit in half a pint of milk 
for an hour, then boil, stirring all the time, until it 
begins to get thick, sweeten to taste, and flavour 
with vanilla. Beat up the yolks of two eggs and 
the white of one. Mix them in the pudding, put 
it into a buttered J^9^ and steam for twenty- 
minutes. Serve with vanilla sauce. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 115 

The brown biscuits prepared only by Mr Blatchley 
of Oxford Street, are much recommended by 
doctors, and in many cases the above recipe will 
be useful ; salt may be substituted for sugar, and 
gravy served with the pudding instead of sweet 
sauce. 

Cheese Macaroni. 

This is macaroni flavoured with cheese, and may 
be eaten without risk by most invalids. Scrape two 
ounces of good-flavoured rich new cheese into half 
a pint of cold water, let it boil gently for half 
an hour, strain out the cheese, and put to the 
liquid half an ounce of best Italian macaroni 
broken in small pieces, a bit of butter the size of a 
small walnut, a pinch of pepper, and salt if necessary. 
Let the macaroni simmer gently until perfectly 
tender, when it will have absorbed all the liquid ; 
then beat up the yolk of an ^^g with a teaspoonful 
of milk or cream ; stir briskly into the macaroni 
until it is lightly set, and assumes the appearance 
of cheese ; serve immediately. 



1 16 COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 



Plain Rice Pudding. 

Wash a quarter of a pound of best rice, put it in 
a pie dish with a pint of new milk, and allow it to 
bake rather quickly for three-quarters of an hour. 
If the pudding is required to be moist, half a pint 
more milk must be allowed. 

Rice Custard Pudding. 

Bake the rice as in the above recipe ; when done, 
add to it half a pint of milk, into which an egg or 
two, sugar to taste and flavouring have been 
mixed. Bake very gently for three-quarters of 
an hour. 

Boiled Rice with sweet Sauce. 

Wash the rice, throw into boiling water, and boil 
it with a pinch of salt in plenty of water. It should 
be done in about twenty minutes, and this will 
readily be ascertained by rubbing a grain between 
the finger and thumb ; if it crumbles, it is properly 
cooked. Drain the rice in a colander, pour over 



COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 117 



it a cup of cold water, put it back into the sauce- 
pan, let it stand a few minutes to dry, and 
serve. 

Sweet Sauce. 

Mix a small dessertspoonful of French potato 
flour quite smooth in four tablespoonfuls of 
water, then stir into it half a pint of boiling 
water, sugar or treacle to taste ; stir over the fire 
until the sauce boils, when, if allowed, an ounce of 
butter may be added, with a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice. When sweetened with sugar, a little 
nutmeg or ground cinnamon may be used instead 
of lemon juice, if preferred. A tablespoonful of 
raspberry jam or any fruit syrup may be used to 
flavour the sauce, and is generally much liked. 

Bice Milk. 

Wash a quarter of a pound of rice, boil as 
directed above, and, having drained it, put it into a 
stewpan with half a pint of new milk ; stir over the 
fire until the rice has absorbed the milk. 



1 1 8 COOKER Y FOR INVALIDS. 



Eice Croquets. 

Bake two ounces of best rice in a pint of milk 
until well swelled and dry. Whilst hot beat in the 
yolk of an egg, one ounce of sifted sugar, and a 
little grated lemon peel, or any flavouring preferred. 
Spread this on a dish to the thickness of half an 
inch, and let it remain until cold ; then put a few 
finely-sifted bread crumbs on your hand, take as 
much of the rice as will heap a dessertspoon, put 
it on the crumbs in your hand, and roll into the 
shape of an ^g'g. Beat up an ^<gg, white and yolk, 
dip the croquet into it, roll it in bread crumbs, put 
it in the wire basket ; repeat this process until all 
your rice is used, then fry the croquets in plenty of 
boiling fat. Clarified dripping answers well for 
frying these croquets ; care must, however, be 
taken that the fat is the right temperature, which 
may readily be ascertained by plunging a piece of 
bread into the fat. If the bread browns instantly, 
the fat is ready. Dip in your wire basket contain- 
ing the croquets, move about gently in the fat, and 
when they acquire, as they should do in less than a 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 1 19 

minute, a golden colour, they are done. Put them 
on cap paper to absorb any fat clinging to them, 
sift sugar over, and serve. 

Ground Rice Pudding. 

Mix tvvo ounces of ground rice in half a pint of 
cold milk, pour on it half a pint of boiling milk, in 
which six lumps of sugar have been dissolved, add 
flavouring, and stir over the fire for ten minutes. 
Put in the pudding an ^g^ well beaten, and bake 
in a buttered tart dish for three-quarters of an hour. 
This pudding may be boiled or steamed, and will 
then require two eggs. 

Semolina Pudding. 

Boil two ounces of semolina in a pint of milk, 
boil for a quarter of an hour, sweeten, and flavour, 
beat in an ^g% ; put the pudding into a buttered 
tart dish ; bake for an hour in a slow oven. 



1 20 COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 

French Tapioca Pudding. 

Take two ounces of tapioca de la conronne, and 
boil it in half a pint of water until it begins to 
swell, then add half a pint of milk by degrees, and 
boil until the tapioca becomes very thick ; add a 
well-beaten egg, sugar and flavouring to taste, and 
bake gently for three-quarters of an hour. This 
preparation of tapioca is superior to any other, is 
nourishing, and suitable for delicate children and 
invalids. 

Sweet Macaroni. 

Break up two ounces of the best macaroni into 
small lengths, and boil it in a quart of water with 
a pinch of salt, until perfectly tender ; drain away 
the water, add to the macaroni in the stewpan half 
a teacupful of milk and two ounces of sifted lump 
sugar, and keep shaking over the fire until the milk 
is absorbed ; add any flavouring, and serve. Stewed 
fruit may be served with the macaroni. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



Sherry Macaroni. 

Break half an ounce of best Italian macaroni into 
a quarter of a pint of sherry mixed with a quarter 
of a pint of water ; let it boil until it is tender and 
has absorbed the liquid. It can then be served 
dusted over with sifted sugar, mixed with a pinch of 
ground cinnamon, or be made into a pudding in 
the same manner as rice custard pudding. 

Sherry Sponge Pudding. 

Put two penny sponge-cakes into a buttered tart 
dish, pour over them a wineglassful of sherr}^, let 
them stand until the wine is absorbed. Boil half a 
pint of milk w^ith two or three lumps of sugar, beat 
an ^^g up with it, pour it over the cakes, and bake 
in a slow oven until the custard is set, when turn 
out, and serve. 

Pastine Pudding. 

Throw an ounce of Italian pastine into a pint of 
boiling water, with a small pinch of salt ; boil it for 



122 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 

four minutes or until tender, drain away the water, 
and put \h.Q pastine to a liquid custard, made of one 
egg, half a pint of boiling milk, sugar, and flavour- 
ing to taste. Butter a tart dish, put in the pudding, 
and bake gently for three-quarters of an hour. 

Rusk Pudding. 

Butter a tart dish, lay in it two slices of rusk 
made from tea-cake. Beat up an Qgg, pour on to 
it half a pint of boiling milk sweetened to taste 
with lump sugar and flavoured with lemon or 
vanilla ; put this custard to the rusk, and bake the 
pudding very slowly for about an hour. Turn it 
on to a dish and spread over the top a little apricot 
or strawberry preserve, made hot by placing the 
jar for a few minutes in a saucepan of boiling 
water. 

This pudding is much nicer and lighter than one 
made of bread. It may be varied by spreading a 
little lemon cheesecake paste between the rusk, or 
by pouring over it, when ready to serve, a sauce 
made as for lemon souffle. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS, 123 



Biscuit Pudding. 

Soak three ounces of Huntley and Palmer's 
lunch biscuits in half a pint of new milk ; when 
quite soft, beat them up smooth, add two ounces of 
lump sugar, two eggs, a little grated lemon peel, 
and a very small pinch of salt. Put the pudding 
in a buttered basin, cover with a paper cap, and 
steam for an hour. For sauce, boil two ounces of 
lump sugar in a quarter of a pint of water until 
it begins to thicken, add the juice of a lemon and 
boil five minutes more. If liked, a tablespoonful 
of sherry may be added. 

Biscuit pudding is equally good baked, and one 
egg only will be required. 

Crumb Pudding. 

Boil two ounces of bread crumbs in a quarter of 
a pint of milk, sweeten and flavour, and when the 
bread is thick stir in the yolks of two eggs. Put 
the pudding into a buttered tart dish, bake slowly 
for three quarters of an hour ; then spread over 
the top a layer of strawberry jam, and on this the 



124 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 

whites of the eggs beaten with a teaspoonful of 
sifted sugar to a strong froth. Dip a knife in 
boihng water, and with it smooth over the whites, 
put the pudding again into a moderate oven 
until the top is a light golden brown. Serve 
immediately. 

Custard Pudding. 

Into half a pint of milk put the peel of half a 
lemon very finely shred ; when it boils put in an 
ounce of lump sugar, take out the peel, and pour 
the milk on two eggs well beaten. Put the custard 
into a basin or tart dish, and set it in a saucepan 
with boiling water reaching only half way up the 
basin. Do not let the water boil, but keep it just 
bubbling. In about twenty minutes the custard 
should be set. It may be eaten either hot or cold, 
and any flavour may be substituted for that of 
lemon peel. A tablespoonful of strong coffee will 
be found very nice and useful in cases where there 
is no objection to it. The pudding, instead of being 
boiled, may be baked ; pour it into a buttered tart 
dish, which place in another two sizes larger, three 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 125 



parts full of boiling water, and bake slowly for half 
an hour. 

Hasty Pudding. 

Mix two ounces of flour smooth in a little cold 
milk, stir on to it half a pint of boiling milk, mix in 
a well beaten q^^, sweeten and flavour with a grated 
nutmeg, add a pinch of salt, and stir over a slow 
fire until the pudding thickens. Turn it out, and 
serve. 

Alexandra Pudding, 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of boiled flour (prepared 
according to the recipe given at page 5) with a 
quarter of a pint of cold milk, then pour on to it 
half a pint of boiling milk sweetened with lump 
sugar. Stir over the fire for five minutes, beat in 
two eggs, and flavour with extract of vanilla. 
Stone a dozen stewed prunes (see recipe, page 1 39), 
put them into the pudding, and pour it into a tart 
dish lightly buttered. Bake gently for an hour. 
The juice of the stewed prunes flavoured with 
vanilla may be served with the pudding. 



126 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



Lemon Souffle. 

Melt an ounce of butter, add to it half an ounce 
of Feyeux's Fecule de pomme de terre, or Vienna 
flour, stir in an ounce of castor sugar, then a 
quarter of a pint of new milk, and the grated 
peel of a small lemon. Stir the mixture over 
the fire until it thickens. Beat up the yolks 
of three eggs for half a minute, stir gradually 
into the pudding ; then add four whites, beaten 
to a strong froth, mixing them thoroughly but 
lightly. Put the pudding into a buttered pint 
mould or basin with a band of good writing- 
paper tied outside, letting two inches well but- 
tered inside, stand above the mould to prevent 
the pudding running over as it rises. Put the 
pudding into a stewpan with boiling water enough 
to reach half-way up the mould, let it simmer very 
gently for about twenty minutes, or until firm 
enough to turn out. Make a sauce as follows : 
Boil two ounces of sugar in a quarter of a pint of 
cold water for ten minutes, add the strained juice 
of the lemon. Mix a small teaspoonful o{ fecule 



COOKER Y FOR INVALIDS. 127 



de pojmne de terre in two tablespoonfuls of sherry 
or w^ater and stir it into the syrup, allowing it to 
thicken over the fire. Pour over the pudding, and 



serve. 



This pudding is very light and delicious, and may 
be varied by using almond or vanilla flavouring 
instead of lemon. Fruit syrup or any preserve 
may be used for the sauce. 



PUDDINGS FOR CHILDEEN. 
Lemon Pudding. 

Butter a pudding basin, put in a thin layer of 
light bread, spread over a little very finely-shred 
beef suet and grated lemon peel, repeat the process 
until the basin is lightly filled ; make a custard of 
two eggs and half a pint oi milk (for a pint basin), 
and pour it over the bread by degrees ; put a paper 
cap over the puddmg, and boil it very gently for an 
hour. Serve with the following sauce: Mix a 
tablespoonful 01 flour in cold water, stir it into half 



1 28 COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 

a pint of boiling water, let it boil a minute, sweeten, 
add the juice of a lemon. Half an ounce of butter 
may, if approved, be added ; a little lemon peel 
boiled in the water of which the sauce is made, or 
a few drops of lemon flavouring, is an improvement. 

Stonleigh Pudding. 

Butter a tart dish, sprinkle the bottom with 
finely-minced candied peel and a very little shred 
suet, then a thin layer of light bread, and so on 
until the dish is full. For a pint dish miake a liquid 
custard of one egg and half a pint of milk, sweeten, 
pour over the pudding, and bake as slowly as 
possible for two hours. 

Baked Batter Pudding. 

Mix five ounces of best flour with four table- 
spoonfuls of cold water and a small pinch of salt, 
add by degrees half a pint of new milk and the 
yolk of an egg. Just before putting the pudding 
into the oven add the white of the egg, beaten to a 
strong froth ; put an ounce of butter, lard, or 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 129 

clarified beef suet into a tart dish, and let it get 
very hot, then put in the pudding, and bake rather 
quickly for forty minutes. For boiling, add another 
^gg to the above quantity, pour the pudding into a 
greased basin, put it into boiling water, and let it 
boil gently for an hour and a quarter. Serve with 
sauce, made as directed for boiled rice, or with any 
kind of stewed fruit. 



Fig Pudding. 

Chop half a pound of figs very finely, mix them 
with a quarter of a pound of coarse sugar, a table- 
spoonful of treacle, four tablespoonfuls of milk, half 
a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of suet, an 
^g%y and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Put the pud- 
ding into a buttered mould, and boil for four or five 
hours. 

Plum Pudding. 

Chop, if possible in a minching machine, half a 
pound of raisins, half a pound of sultanas, two 
ounces of candied peel, and half a pound of apples; 



130 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 

mix with half a pound of beef suet one pound of 
bread crumbs, a quarter of a pound of flour, half a 
pound of sugar, a little spice, and a pinch of salt ; 
put sufficient new milk to make the mixture rather 
stiff; butter a basin, put in the pudding, and boil for 
six hours. This quantity will make a large 
pudding. 

Baked Suet Crust. 

Shred beef suet very thin ; take equal proportions 
of sifted flour, roll a little suet with a little flour; 
put it aside as you do it, and continue the process 
until all the suet and flour are rolled together into 
flakes ; gather them into a heap on the board, 
sprinkle them with water, using as little as possible, 
to make the mass into paste. When it is worked 
into a smooth paste, beat it a little with the rolling 
pin, and roll out as thin as possible ; fold it over to 
the required thickness, and put it on the pie ; bake 
rather quickly. This crust should be eaten before 
quite cold, and, if properly made, will be a very 
good and light puff paste, equally suitable for fruits 
or meat pies. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 131 



Fruit Pudding. 

Make a crust in the proportion of four ounces of 
suet to six of flour, a pinch of salt, and water to 
make a stiff paste, roll it out thin before putting 
into a buttered basin, then add the fruit mixed with 
sugar, except in the case of apples, which are some- 
times hardened by boiling with sugar ; put on a lid 
of paste, and boil the pudding an hour and a half. 
Care should be taken to roll the crust thin, in order 
to get as much fruit as possible into the pudding. 
It is a good plan to stew a little fruit, and serve it 
with the pudding, as it should be given to children 
in large proportion to the crust. 

Layer Pudding. 

Make a crust as for fruit pudding. Roll it out 
and line a buttered basin with it, lay at the bottom 
a layer of jam or treacle, then a thin layer of crust, 
and so on until the basin is full. Boil an hour and 
a half. 



132 COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 



German Pudding. 

Chop the remains of a fruit pudding very finely, 
add to them a quarter of their weight in flour, suet, 
sugar, and black currant jam, or any kind of stewed 
fruit. Mix all with an egg ; bake the pudding 
very slowly for nearly two hours, taking care it does 
not become hard on the outside. When done turn 
it out and sift sugar over. 

Rice Pudding without Milk. 

Bake a quarter of a pound of rice in a pint of 
water, with one ounce of finely shred suet or of 
butter ; when done add to it a quarter of a pint of 
water in which a dessertspoonful of flour has been 
boiled, with one egg well beaten, sugar and flavour- 
ing to taste. Bake gently for three-quarters of an 
hour. 

This and the three following recipes will be found 
acceptable to the sick poor, who being unaccus- 
tomed to delicate puddings do not appreciate them 
when ill. Puddings for the poor should not be made 



COOKER Y FOR INVALIDS. 1 33 



sweet ; as a rule they use but little sugar. Spice is 
preferred to lemon flavouring. 

Bread Pudding. 

Soak the bread in cold water, then squeeze it 
very dry, take out any lumps, and add boiling milk, 
about half a pint to a pound of soaked bread ; beat 
up an ^g%, sweeten, add a little nutmeg, and 
bake the pudding slowly until firm. If desired, a 
few sultanas may be added to the pudding ; or, if 
the bread is light, such as the crusts of French 
rolls, it may be soaked in as much cold milk as it 
will absorb, and when it is perfectly soft have 
sugar, eggs, and flavouring added to it. 

Indian Corn Flour Pudding. 

This must not be confounded with corn-flour 
sold in packets, which in some cases is the starch 
of Indian corn or maize, deprived of much of its 
nutritive value by the process it undergoes to render 
it white and smooth. Indian corn-flour is the 
finely-ground flour of maize, and is largely used in 



134 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



America. Dr Pavy says : " Properly prepared, it 
furnishes a wholesome, digestible, and nutritious 
food." Like oatmeal, it requires to be thoroughly 
well boiled. Vanilla is a suitable flavouring for 
this pudding, but any other may be used. Two 
ounces of Indian corn-flour, mix smooth in a quarter 
of a pint of milk, and then stir it into three- 
quarters of a pint of boiling milk, sweeten and 
flavour. Put into a clean stewpan, and stir over 
the fire until it becomes quite thick; beat in an 
^ZZ^ put the pudding into a buttered tart dish, and 
bake very slowly for three-quarters of an hour. 

Oatmeal Pudding. 

Mix two ounces of fine Scotch oatmeal in a 
quarter of a pint of milk; add to it a pint of 
boiling milk ; sweeten to taste, and stir over the 
fire for ten minutes ; then put in two ounces of 
sifted bread crumbs ; stir until the mixture .is stiff, 
then add one ounce of shred suet and one or two 
well-beaten eggs ; add a little flavouring, or grated 
nutmeg. Put the pudding into a buttered dish, and 
bake slowly for an hour. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 135 

Baked Apples. 

Wash the apples, with a sharp needle prick the 
skins, put a little water in the baking dish and 
place the apples in it. Bake in a very slow oven. 
If these directions are followed, the apples will not 
burst 

Apple Souffle. 

Bake two or three sharp apples, scrape out the 
pulp, sweeten with powdered sugar, and mix in the 
white of an ^gg beaten to a strong froth. Put it 
on a flat tin dish and bake in a moderate oven for 
a quarter of an hour or until the souffle has risen. 
Serve immediately. A little lemon flavouring 
may be added to the apple. 

Apple Fool. 

Bake good sharp apples, remove the pulp with a 
spoon, and beat it up with a little sifted sugar. To 
a teacupful use the yolk of an &gg and a penny 
sponge-cake ; mix together, and rub through a 



136 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 

sieve. This is nourishing, and useful in any case 
where cream or custard is objected to. 

Stewed Apples and Eice. 

Peel good baking apples, take out the cores with 
a scoop so as not to injure the shape of the apples, 
put them in a deep baking dish, and pour over them a 
syrup made of boiling sugar in the proportion of one 
pound to a pint of water ; put a little piece of shred 
lemon inside each apple, and let them bake very 
slowly until soft, but not in the least broken. If 
the syrup is thin, boil it until it is thick enough ; 
take out the lemon peel, and put a little jam 
inside each apple, and between each a little heap 
of well-boiled rice ; pour the syrup gently over the 
apples, and let it cover the rice. This dish may 
be served either hot or cold. 

Apple Charlotte. 

Bake good cooking apples slowly until done ; 
scrape out all the pulp with a teaspoon, put it in a 
stewpan in the proportion of one pound of apple 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 137 

pulp to half a pound of sugar ; stir it until the 
sugar is dissolved and the pulp stiff. Take care it 
does not burn. Add a little lemon flavouring, and 
place the apple in the centre of a dish, arranging 
thickly and tastefully round it neatly-cut pieces of 
carefully-fried bread. If it is desired to make this 
dish very nice, each piece of fried bread may be 
dipped in apricot jam. Rhubarb Charlotte may be 
made in the same manner. The rhubarb must be 
boiled and stirred until a good deal of the watery 
portion has evaporated, and then sugar, half a pound 
to a pound of fruit, being added it should be 
allowed to boil until it is thick. 

Stewed Fruits. 

Almost any fruit well stewed may be given to 
children, but some, from being too often repeated, 
will be declined by them. This is often the case 
with stewed rhubarb, and it should therefore occa- 
sionally be mixed with other fruit. A tablespoonful 
or two of raspberry or strawberry jam, a little 
orange or lemon marmalade, will change the flavour 
agreeably. Rhubarb and apples are best prepared 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



for eating with rice or macaroni by gently boiling 
in a stewpan until tender and tolerably dry ; sugar 
to taste should then be added, and stirred with the 
fruit over the fire for five or ten minutes. In the 
case of the acid in fruit being very strong, it is well 
before adding the sugar to put in a small pinch of 
carbonate of soda ; much less sugar will then be 
found to suffice. 

Croustades with Stewed Fruit. 

Take a French roll a day old, cut off the crust, 
divide it into three equal portions ; with a sharp 
knife cut out the middle of each so as to form a 
basket, taking care not to make holes in the bottom 
of it. The sides of the croustades should be about 
the third of an inch thick. Have a stewpan half 
full of fat, and, when it is hot enough to colour the 
bread instantly, immerse the croustades in it, and 
in less than half a minute they will be done. It is 
best to fry one or two at a time. Take them out 
of the fat with a wire spoon or a skimmer, and dry 
them on cap paper. Now fill the croustades with 
stewed fruit of any kind, and serve immediately 
after fiUing. 



COOKER Y FOR INVALIDS. 139 



Stewed Prunes. 

Wash the fruit, and for every pound allow half a 
pound of raw sugar and one pint of water. Boil 
the sugar and water together for ten minutes, then 
put in the fruit, and let it boil gently for two hours 
or until perfectly tender, so that it breaks if touched 
with the finger. Drain the syrup from the prunes, 
and boil it until it becomes thick ; then put the 
prunes back into it, and let them stand until the 
next day. 

Stewed Figs. 

Simmer one pound of figs in a pint and a half of 
water with the peel of a lemon for an hour, or until 
they are perfectly soft without being broken. Take 
the figs out of the syrup, to which add the juice of 
the lemon, and boil it up quickly for five minutes, 
then pour it over the figs and allow them to stand 
until cold. 



JELLIES, CREAMS, ICES, &c. 

Wine Jelly. 

It should be understood that Nelson's gelatine 
answers as well for jelly, as that made from calves' 
feet, and that the only advantage from using the 
latter is the knowledge of the source whence it is 
derived. To make jelly of calves' feet, boil two 
in four quarts of water for eight hours, skimming 
well. When done, strain the liquor through a very 
fine sieve, and let it remain until the next day. 
Carefully remove every particle of grease ; this is 
best done by scraping the jelly, and then wiping 
it with a clean cloth dipped in very hot water. 
To a pint of strong jelly, put a quarter of a pound 
of lump sugar, the peel of one lemon, and the 
juice of two. When the jelly is dissolved, stir in 
a pint of sherry and a wine-glassful of brandy. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 141 



Beat up the whites and shells of four eggs with a 

quarter of a pint of cold water, and stir them 

briskly into the jelly, which allow to simmer gently 

for a quarter of an hour. Let it stand for five 

minutes before passing through the jelly bag. If 

the jelly is not clear, pass it a second time through 

the bag. Kent's " Registered Jelly Strainer " saves 

much time, trouble, and waste, and is on all 

accounts to be preferred to the old-fashioned bag 

and stand. To make jelly of Nelson's gelatine, 

follow the directions given with each packet, and 

the result will be successful. Or proceed as follows. 

Soak an ounce of Nelson's gelatine in half a pint 

of cold water for an hour, stir into it a pint of 

boiling water. Cut the peel of a lemon thinly, and 

put it with the strained juice of two, and a quarter 

of a pound of sugar into the jelly. Let this boil 

for five minutes, take it off the fire, and when it 

has stood two or three minutes, stir in briskly the 

whites and shells of two eggs well whisked together. 

Take it off the fire, allow it to stand two or three 

minutes, then pass through the bag. When the 

jelly is strained, stir in half a pint of sherr>' and 

if approved, a little brandy. It is best not to boil 



142 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 

wine as it loses thereby both spirit and flavour. 
When gelatine is used merely as a vehicle for 
administering wine, it is not necessary to clear the 
jelly. Dissolve half an ounce of gelatine previ- 
ously soaked in a little water, in a quarter of a pint 
of boiling water, add sugar to taste, the juice and 
peel of a lemon, and let all boil together for a 
quarter of an hour. Take off the fire, and stir in 
half a pint of port, sherry, or any wine ordered, 
and let it stand until set. 



Hartshorn Jelly. 

Boil a quarter of a pound of hartshorn shavings 
in two quarts of water, until reduced to a pint, 
sweeten, and add the juice of a lemon ; strain it, 
and let it stand until cold. 

Ivory-dust Jelly. 

Put half a pound of ivory-dust into two quarts 
of water, and boil it until reduced to a pint — it will 
take from eight to ten hours, and must be gently 
boiled. Strain through a jelly bag, and use to 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 143 

give additional strength to other forms of nourish- 
ment. 

Iceland Moss Jelly. 

Put an ounce of Iceland moss into a quart of 
tepid water and let it stand all night. Boil it 
until reduced to a pint, strain it, flavour with wine 
and lemon juice, and sweeten to taste. Or, the 
plain jelly may be taken in milk or cream. 

Madeira Jelly. 

Soak half an ounce of gelatine in the third of a 
pint of water, let it boil until dissolved, add a 
quarter of a pound of sugar, when melted strain 
and add a quarter of a pint of Madeira. Let the 
jelly stand until cool, whip it until it becomes a 
thick froth, put it into a mould, set it in a cool place 
or on ice until quite firm. 

Lemon Sponge. 

Soak half an ounce of Nelson's gelatine in a 
quarter of a pint of cold water. Dissolve it in a 



144 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 

quarter of a pint of boiling water, put a quarter of 
a pound of lump sugar and the peel of half a lemon, 
let it simmer for half an hour, then strain and allow 
it to stand until nearly cold. Add the juice of a 
large lemon and whisk the sponge until perfectly- 
white and thick. Dip a mould into cold water, 
drain it, put in the sponge and let it remain until 
the next day, when dip the mould into tepid water, 
loosen the edges with the top of a teaspoon and turn 
out the sponge. 

Tapioca Jelly. 

Put two ounces of Tapioca de la Coiiroiine into a 
jar with half a pint of cold water and the grated 
peel of a lemon. Set the jar in a saucepan of 
water and keep it boiling. When the tapioca begins 
to thicken, stir in another half pint of water, let it 
boil gently for an hour, stirring occasionally. 
Sweeten with sifted sugar and pour into a mould. 

Let it stand until cold, when it will turn out of 
the mould, a stiff jelly. If approved a little sherry 
or brandy may be added, so much less water being 
used. This jelly is very nice eaten with fruit : is 
light, nourishing and very delicate. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 145 



Blanc Mange. 

This was formerly not only one of the most 
esteemed creams for the dinner and supper table, 
but was also highly regarded as a convenient 
medium for administering a cream or milk diet to 
invalids. It has now, however, gone out of fashion, 
but is certainly not improved upon by some of the 
tough and frothy creams by which it has been 
superseded. As blanc mange is frequently ordered 
on account of the properties of the almonds, care 
should be taken to prepare them properly, as in 
the following recipe, which is an old and good one: 
Boil half an ounce of isinglass, or of Nelson's gela- 
tine, previously soaked in cold water, in a pint of 
new milk (a little more isinglass or gelatine will 
be required in summer) ; put in an ounce of sugar, 
rubbing two or three of the lumps on the peel 
of a lemon, and a very small piece of cinnamon. 
Blanch six bitter, and half an ounce of sweet 
almonds, pound in a mortar, adding a spoonful of 
rose water by degrees. When pounded to a paste, 
mix the almonds with the milk and gelatine, and 



146 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



let the blanc mange stand for half an hour. Strain 
through a fine sieve or muslin, taking care that 
none of the almonds remain in the liquid, stir in 
a quarter of a pint of good cream, put the blanc 
mange into a mould, and let it stand until set. 

French Rice Cream. 

Take two tablespoonfuls of Fayeux's cr^me de 
viz, and mix it smooth in half a pint of cold milk ; 
stir it into half a pint of boiling milk, in which two 
ounces of sugar have been dissolved. Stir over the 
fire until it boils, then beat in two well-whisked 
eggs, and continue stirring for ten minutes over the 
fire. Add a little flavouring, and serve either hot 
or cold. This, like tapioca de la couronne, is valu- 
able for invalids and children of delicate appetite 
who cannot eat the commoner kinds of rice. 

French Custard. 

Take a dessertspoonful of Fayeiixs Fecule de 
pomme de te^'re, mix it smooth with two table- 
spoonfuls of cold milk, then stir into it half a pint 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 147 



of boiling milk, in which an ounce of lump sugar 
has been dissolved ; boil the custard gently, stirring 
all the time until it becomes thick, then add two 
eggs well beaten, and a little flavouring, and stir 
over the fire for four or five minutes. Pour the 
custard into a basin, and stir occasionally as it is 
getting cold to prevent a skin forming on the top. 
Brown and Poison's corn flour may be substituted 
for the Fecide de pomme de terre, but is not so 
delicate or appropriate for this purpose. 

Shape of Rice. 

Bake a quarter of a pound of rice, as directed for 
plain rice pudding, taking care to have it dry. 
Remove the brown skin, and mix with the rice 
whilst hot the yolks of two eggs, two ounces of 
powdered lump sugar, and a little almond, or vanilla 
flavouring. Beat all together, but do not boil after 
adding the eggs. Press the rice into a mould, let it 
stand for some hours until set, then turn it out on 
a glass dish. 



148 COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 



Eice Cream. 

Bake one ounce of best rice in half a pint of 
milk ; when done, remove the skin from the top. 
Dissolve a quarter of an ounce of gelatine, pre- 
viously soaked in two tablespoonfuls of cold milk, in 
a quarter of a pint of boiling milk or cream, add 
the yolks of two eggs, two ounces of loaf sugar, and 
a little extract of vanilla ; stir over the fire for five 
minutes, mix with the rice, pour it into a mould, 
and let it remain until set. More or less sugar may 
be used according to taste ; the quantity given will 
make the cream rather sweet. 

Victoria Pudding. 

Boil two ounces of sago with six ounces of sugar 
in half a pint of water for three-quarters of an hour, 
add six ounces of fresh fruit, again boil for an 
hour, and then put it into a mould ; let it stand 
until cold, when turn it out and pour a little syrup 
round the base. Milk or cream may be eaten 
with it 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 149 



Custard Cream. 

Pour half a pint of boiling milk or cream on to 
the yolks of three eggs well beaten, sweeten to 
taste, whip together, and put it in a stewpan ; stir 
over a gentle fire until it thickens, then flavour 
with extract of vanilla or lemon, or with brandy ; 
whilst cooling, stir occasionally, and when nearly 
cold, stir in a quarter of an ounce of Nelson's 
gelatine previously soaked in cold water, according 
to the directions on the packet and then dissolved 
in three tablespoonfuls of boiling milk, then put 
the cream into a mould, and let it stand until the 
next day. 

Crystal Palace Cream. 

Make a custard as directed for French custard, 
dissolve a quarter of an ounce of Nelson's gelatine 
in boiling water, and when it is nearly cold, stir 
it into the custard, which must also be cool ; soak 
two penny sponge cakes and two macaroons in two 
tablespoonfuls of milk, or if preferred, any fruit 
syrup, which must be rich and sweet, put the cakes 



I50 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 

into a mould, and gently pour the cream over them, 
let it stand until cold. A few glace cherries may 
be added. 

Lemon Cream. 

This will be useful where milk or cream is not 
allowed, and is nourishing and delicious. Put into 
half a pint of boiling water the peel of two lemons, 
very thinly shred, and allow 'it to simmer for a 
quarter of an hour, then boil half a pound of sugar 
in it for two minutes, strain it, add three eggs (the 
whites and yolks beaten together) and the juice of 
the lemons. Put the mixture into a bright stew- 
pan, and stir until thick ; it will take about twenty 
minutes. Have ready a quarter of an ounce of 
Nelson's gelatine, soaked in a spoonful of cold 
water, and when the cream is poured into a basin 
put the gelatine with another spoonful of water into 
the stewpan, and stir about until dissolved, then, 
when both are nearly cold, mix thoroughly 
together, and put the cream into a mould. It 
should stand until the next day. 



COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 1 5 1 



Ices. 



It is sometimes difficult to get ice made at home 
on account of the trouble and expense, but these 
difficulties are obviated by the miniature ice-pail 
lately introduced by Mr Kent. The little pail is 
exceedingly simple in action, and by its aid 
sufficient cream or water ice for two persons can be 
made in a quarter of an hour. The cost of the ice 
for freezing will not exceed threepence, and a 
second quantity of ice cream can be made with it, 
or a glass of pure water may be converted into ice, 
and wine or soda-water iced. The price of the 
little pail is twelve shillings ; it cannot be too 
highly recommended for invalids who require pure 
cream or water ices. 

Lemon Water Ice. 

Put the eighth of an ounce of gum tragacanth in 
an earthenware pot with two-thirds of a pint of 
water, and stir occasionally until dissolved. If the 
water evaporates add more so as to keep the 



152 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



original quantity. Let it get cold, stir in the juice 
of two lemons with a few drops of essence of lemon 
peel, sweeten with syrup or sugar, taking care not 
to make it too sweet. Thoroughly mix all the in- 
gredients together, strain into the freezing glass, 
follow the directions given with the pail, and the 
ices will be ready in ten minutes. Any fruit, syrup, 
or the juice of fresh fruit, maybe substituted for the 
lemon. The gum tragacanth can be dispensed 
with; it, however, gives richness to the ice, and 
there is no objection to its use. If the gum is laid 
for an hour or two in a small quantity of lemon 
juice, it will dissolve readily in water, otherwise it 
takes a long time. ^ 

Ice Cream. 

Stir into half a pint of milk and a quarter of a 
pint of cream, four tablespoonfuls of good straw- 
berry «or raspberry jam, add a small tablespoonful 
of sifted sugar, and mix all thoroughly together. 
Strain into the freezing glass, and proceed accord- 
ing to directions. A small pinch of gum tragacanth 
dissolved in the milk, and, when cold, mixed with 
the other ingredients, gives richness and firmness to 



COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 1 53 

the ices. Any syrup may be used instead of the pre- 
serve, and a few drops of vanilla flavouring may be 
added with advantage. Care must be taken not to 
make the mixture for icing too sweet, as it will not 
then freeze well. 

Flavourings for Puddings. 

It is desirable that these should be prepared at 
home, as even the best bought essences have a 
pungent flavour, and are very apt to disagree with 
the stomach. The most important flavouring is that 
of Lemon Peel, which is too often wasted when 
the juice is used. If a lemon has to be sent to 
table to eat with fish, rice, &c., &c., it can be pre- 
viously pared, or, the less to interfere with its 
appearance, grated. If the peel is not required for 
immediate use, put it into a wide-mouthed bottle 
containing a little gin ; when it has stood a few 
days, a delicious flavouring will be ready ; the peel 
can also be used for rice puddings, &c. The 
grated peel may be mixed with sifted sugar put 
into a bottle and corked; it will thus retain the 
flavour of fresh peel for some time. 

Almond flavouring, blanch bitter almonds, 



1 54 COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 



put them into a bottle, and cover with gin, shake 
occasionally during three or four weeks, then drain 
off the liquid, allow it to stand until fine, and 
it is ready for use. 

Vanilla should be cut into small pieces, and 
be covered with brandy — not more than two 
tablespoonfuls should be allowed for a stick of 
vanilla. Vanilla varies much in quality, and 
cannot be bought at a low price. That supplied 
by Rocco of Greek Street, Soho, is very fine. 

Angelica may be infused in the same manner 
as almonds, spirits-of-wine being substituted for 
gin. A useful cordial may be made with this 
extract of Angelica, and, for those who like it, it 
is an agreeable change in the flavouring of 
creams, &c. 

Extract of Spices. — Crush a nutmeg, a dozen 
cloves, and one blade of ginger, put these into a 
small bottle and cover with unsweetened gin. 
Shake occasionally and at the expiration of a 
fortnight let the spice settle ; drain off the extract, 
and again let it stand until perfectly bright. A 
few drops of this is useful for flavouring negus, 
gruel, or mulled wine. 



COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 155 



Apple Marmalade. 

Peel, but do not core, six pounds of sharp apples, 
pour over them three pints of cold water, put them 
in the preserving kettle, and boil until they are 
soft. Rub them through a wire sieve, and to each 
pint of puree, allow half a pound of fine loaf sugar ; 
boil together until the marmalade will set, put into 
pots, and when cold cover down and keep for use 
when apples are scarce. If the apples become dry- 
in the first boiling, a little more water may be 
added. No rule can be given as some apples are 
much more juicy than others. 

Apple marmalade is said to contain much 
nourishment and is very useful for delicate children 
and invalids. 

Orange Marmalade. 

Choose Seville oranges with fine smooth dark 
skins. Score the peel in quarters down to the fruit, 
remove it with as much of the white as will come 
without drawing the juice of the orange, throw 
the quarters of peel as you do them into cold water. 



156 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 

Put the peel into the preserving kettle with fresh 
cold water to cover it, let it boil for an hour, change 
the water, and let the peel boil until tender enough 
to pierce with a straw or to crumble when pressed 
between the fingers ; take it up, drain away all the 
water and cut into shreds as fine as possible. 
Squeeze the oranges, and to every dozen add the 
juice of four lemons. Weigh the shred peel and the 
juice, and to every pound allow a pound and a half 
of lump sugar. Put a pint of water to each pound 
of sugar, let it boil a quarter of an hour, then add 
the juice of the fruit, and when the syrup becomes 
thick put in the peel and boil all together for twenty 
minutes, or until the marmalade will jelly. Put 
mto jars, let them remain uncovered for a day or 
two, then tie down in the usual manner. 

It is a good plan to prepare the peel the day 
before making the marmalade, as it then has time 
to drain before shredding ; it should be set aside on 
sieves and turned about occasionally. 



COOKER Y FOR INVALIDS. 1 57 



Preserved Strawberries. 

Boil one pound of sugar in half a pint of water 
until it begins to get thick, then put in one pound 
of carefully picked strawberries, and let them boil 
gently until the fruit is done, which will be in 
about a quarter of an hour. Pour the preserve into 
a basin, and let it stand until the next day, then 
drain the syrup into the preserving kettle, taking 
care not to break the fruit ; let the syrup boil, 
skimming it, if necessary, until it begins to jelly, 
then put the strawberries into it, let them boil 
together gently for five minutes, put into small 
pots or glasses, and do not cover down for a week 
or ten days. 





BREAD AND CAKES. 

As a rule, invalids have a difficulty in eating 
bread, and as but a small quantity can be taken, 
it is of the first importance it should be pure and 
wholesome. It is wonderful how even healthy 
stomachs tolerate the compound which bakers 
dignify with the name of bread, and almost as 
wonderful that persons who have once tasted a 
pure household loaf, can eat that sold in the shops. 
That bread for delicate persons and invalids nmst 
be made at home admits of no doubt, and it is 
hoped the following recipes will enable the cook 
to make light and digestible bread. 

A small bread-making machine is very useful. 
Bread can be made with less yeast, be more per- 
fectly kneaded, and will eat sweeter, than when 
made with the hands. Perfect cleanliness is ensured 



COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 1 59 

by its use. Kent's machine (Edward's Patent) can 
be had for twenty-five shillings, but a larger size 
is required for family use. 

As a rule, bread made in the machine takes less 
time to rise, than that made by hand. Some care 
and observation are required in order to know the 
exact moment when it is ready for the oven. No 
precise time can be given, as it will vary according 
to the temperature at which the dough is kept, 
the quantity of water used, the quality of the 
materials, and the method of manipulation. If 
bread rises too long before going into the oven, it 
will be dry and harsh, if not long enough, it will 
probably be close, or not bake well. One 
characteristic of well-made dough is, that it is 
smooth and compact, and sticks neither to the 
hands or vessel in which it is made. Good German 
yeast is the best for making bread for invalids. It 
must be perfectly fresh and sweet, in which state 
it is nearly white and quite dry. Brewer's yeast 
when it can be obtained, may be used. To deprive 
it of bitterness, cold water should be poured on 
it over night, and in the morning be drained 
away. A tablespoonful of good, thick brewer's 



i6o COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 

yeast will make up two pounds of flour. Spanish 
flour is to be had at good corn chandlers, and 
makes very white sweet bread. Vienna flour is 
suitable for rolls and fancy bread- 
Household Bread. 

Dissolve rather less than half an ounce of German 
yeast in a spoonful, of cold water, stir into it, three 
gills of tepid water, (a gill is a quarter of a pint,) and 
pour it rapidly through a sieve on to one pound of 
fine flour, in which a small pinch of salt has been 
mixed, beat it up with the hand or a wooden spoon 
until well mixed. Then, work in by degrees 
another pound of flour, kneading it well, until all 
the flour is used. Some flour takes rather more 
water than other kinds, and it may not be possible 
to work in quite all the flour ; the bread, however, 
will be all the sweeter and better for being worked 
up dry. Set the dough to rise at a temperature of 
about eighty degrees, and in an hour or rather less 
it will be ready to bake. Flour your paste board, 
put the dough on it, and with your hands make it 
into a compact loaf. If the bread has been mixed 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. i6i 

as directed, and has not risen too quickly, the 
loaf will not spread in the oven ; it will take about 
an hour to bake, being first put into a very hot oven 
for ten minutes which should then have the heat 
slackened. 

Rolls. 

Dissolve two ounces of German yeast in rather 
less than a pint of tepid water ; pour it through a 
sieve on to a pound of fine flour, work in gradually 
another pound of flour. Set the dough in a warm 
place until it has risen well, then divide it into six 
portions, and put them into roll tins ; bake quickly. 

Tea Cakes. 

Melt two ounces of butter, stir it into a pint of 

tepid milk, mix in this an ounce of fresh German 

yeast, a good pinch of salt, two ounces of sifted 

sugar, and two eggs. Strain on to two pounds 

of fine flour, and beat all well together. Let the 

dough rise for half an hour ; then knead and put 

into tins, allowing the cakes to rise well before 

baking them in a moderate oven. 

L 



i62 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



Sweet Bread Cake. 

Dissolve an ounce of German yeast in half a pint 
of tepid water. Work it in to one pound of flour, 
let it rise for half an hour, then mix in two ounces 
of dissolved butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
a little finely shred orange candy peel, carraway 
powder, ground cinnamon, or other flavouring. 
Let the cake rise for half an hour, put it into 
a buttered tin, and bake. The oven should be very 
hot for the first ten minutes and then be slackened 
until the cake is done. 

An ^%^ may be added to the cake when the 
butter is mixed in. 

TJnfermented Bread. 

This is best made with Limner's self-raising flour. 
If the directions given with this flour are duly 
followed, the bread will be very good. Bread made 
with baking powder often has yellow spots in it, giv- 
ing rise to needless apprehension on the score of 
the materials employed. The chemical agents 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 163, 

being thoroughly well mixed with Limner's flour 
these spots are never seen. When baking powder 
is used great care should be taken to thoroughly- 
incorporate it with the flour. 

The great secret of success in making unfer- 
mented bread lies in expeditious mixing and in 
putting it the moment it is made into a very hot 
oven. Care should be taken to ascertain that the 
oven is a proper heat before mixing the dough, and 
the baking sheet should be floured and ready to 
hand. 

Only a small quantity of unfermented bread can 
be successfully mixed at one time. Two pounds 
are enough for one operation and this quantity 
should be divided into three loaves. Half an hour 
will bake them. 

Limner's flour, mixed with milk and water 
makes delicious bread. Cream which has slightly 
turned mixed with water is even better than milk. 

Baking Powder. 

One ounce of tartaric acid, two ounces of car- 
bonate of soda, two ounces of corn flour, mix 



i64 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 



thoroughly together and keep in well corked 
bottles. Two heaped teaspoonfuls will be required 
to make one pound of flour into bread with half a 
pint of milk or water. 



Lunch Cake. 

Mix three heaped teaspoonfuls of home made 
baking powder in one pound of fine flour, rub m 
quarter of a pound of butter or lard, mix in a quarter 
of pound of castor sugar, a little ground carraway 
seed, cinnamon, grated lemon, peel, or any flavour 
preferred. When ready to bake stir in as quickly 
as possible two well beaten eggs mixed with half a 
pint of milk, put into buttered tins and bake in a 
hot oven. This will generally make four cakes the 
size of shilling pound cakes. Currants, when 
chopped, are perfectly wholesome, and a quarter of 
a pound may be used to give variety to the cake. 

Ginger Bread. 

Dissolve a quarter of a pound of butter and mix 
with it over the fire one pound of treacle, pour it 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 165 



on to four eggs, and having beaten them together 
until well mixed stir into one pound of flour, a 
quarter of a pound of moist sugar, one ounce of 
ground ginger, a teaspoonful of ground carraway 
seeds, and a teaspoonful of baking powder. Take 
care all the dry ingredients are thoroughly well 
mixed before adding the Hquid. Pour the cake 
into a Yorkshire pudding tin and bake in a 
moderate oven for about three quarters of an hour. 

Sponge Cake. 

Boil three quarters of a pound of lump sugar in 
a quarter of a pint of water ; pour it whilst boiling 
hot on to six eggs the whites and yolks whisked 
for two minutes. Beat up the eggs and sugar 
until they become a very thick batter. A skilful 
beater will accomplish this in from twenty to 
thirty minutes. Now mix in lightly and quickly 
ten ounces of Vienna flour, put into buttered tins 
thickly sprinkled with sifted sugar, and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

Grated lemon peel or vanilla flavouring may be 
used and should be added whilst the eggs are 
being; whisked. 



1 66 CO OKER V FOR INVALIDS. 



Geneva Cakes. 

Take a round tin five inches in diameter and 
about two inches deep, fit a buttered paper on the 
bottom, and on the sides, an inch or so above the 
tin. It is always best to prepare the tins for light 
cakes and souffles the first thing, because the 
moment the batter is finished, it should be put into 
the tin and baked. 

Break four eggs into a large bowl, beat them for 
a minute, then mix with them five ounces of sifted 
sugar. Put the bowl into another two or three 
sizes larger containing boiling water and whip the 
eggs and sugar until they become very thick, which 
should be accomplished in from fifteen to twenty 
minutes, change the water in the outer bowl about 
every five minutes, so as to keep the heat as uni- 
form as possible. When the batter is sufficiently 
thick, stir in three ounces of fine fresh butter 
dissolved over the fire in a stewpan, and then 
lightly and thoroughly mix in four ounces of fine 
sifted flour. Put the batter into the tin and bake 
in a hot oven. It will take about three-quarters of 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 167 



an hour. When the cake is done, turn it on to a 
sieve, let it get cold, cut it in slices, and spread jam 
between, or it is excellent eaten plain. 



Arrowroot Biscuits. 

Mix two ounces of arrowroot with six ounces of 
Vienna flour, rub in two ounces of butter, mix in a 
quarter of a pound of castor sugar, and make into a 
moist paste with an Ggg beaten up with a table- 
spoonful of cream. Dredge the pasteboard with 
flour, lay the paste on it, and dredge flour thickly 
over, also flour your hand and press the paste as 
thin as you can. Then divide it into small 
portions, again dredge the board and paste, which 
press to the thickness of half-a-crown, cut into shapes 
with a pastry cutter, butter writing paper and 
place the biscuits on it as you do them. Bake on 
an iron sheet in a slow oven. 

Ginger Biscuits. 

Rub one ounce of butter into four ounces of 
Vienna flour, mix in two ounces of castor sugar, 



1 68 COOKER V FOR INVALIDS. 

a teaspoonful of ground ginger, and make into a 
stiff paste with the yolk of an Qgg beaten up in a 
tablespoonful of milk or cream. Put the paste on 
a board and roll out once to the thickness of a 
shilling. Cut the biscuits into round shapes, put 
them on a floured baking sheet and bake very 
slowly until crisp ; if the biscuits become brown 
they are spoiled. 

Rice Cakes. 

Mix two ounces of ground rice with six ounces 
of flour, and one teaspoonful of baking powder, 
rub in an ounce of fresh butter, and two ounces of 
sugar. Beat up an ^gg in a quarter of a pint of 
milk with a little lemon flavouring, have ready 
small patty pans rubbed with butter, half fill each 
with the cake mixture, put immediately into the 
oven, and bake for fifteen minutes. 




INDEX. 





Page 




Page 


Alexandra Pudding, 


. 125 


Batter Pudding (Baked), 


128 


Almond Milk, 


48 


, Boiled, 


129 


Anchovy Relish, 


74 


Beans, French, 


. 105 


Angelica, 


144 


Beef Cutlets, . 


. 83 


Apple Charlotte, 


136 


Saute, . 


84 


Fool, 


135 


Stewed, 


85 


Marmalade, 


• 155 


Jelly, . , 


14 


Water, . 


42 


Tea, 


11-12 


Souffle, . 


135 


Cold DrawTi, . 


15 


Apples, Baked, 


135 


Beer, 


31 


Stewed, and Rice, 


136 


Beverages, 


3i 


Arrowroot, 


8 


Biscuit Pudding, 


123 


Biscuits, 

Arabic (Gum) Milk, 


167 
46 


Tl..- 




Biscuits, Arrowroot, 


114 

167 


Water, . 


47 


Ginger, . 


169 


Artichoke Soup, 


30 


Pudding, Brown, 


114 


Asparagus, 


105 


Black Currant Jam Water 


42 






Blanc Mange, 


145 


Baked Apples, 


135 


Boil, To, an Egg, . 


53 


Flour, . . 


6 


Chickens, 


94 


Haddock, 


67 


Boiled Flour Gruel, 


5 


Soles, 


62 


Rice, with Sweet 




Suet Crust, 


130 


Sauce, . . . . 


116 


Baking Powder, 


163 


Sole, 


61 


Barley Gruel, . 


4 


Brain Cakes, . 


92 


Water, . 


5 


Brains, Sheep's, 


91 



I70 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 





Pa2:e 


Page 


Bread, . 


. 158 


Chicken Saut^, . . 96 


Household, 


160 


Stewing, 


95 


Pudding, . . 


133 


Children, Puddings for, 


lie 


Savoury, 


114 


Soups for, 


26 


Sweet Cake, 


162 


Chop, Mutton, 


77 


Soup, 


27 


Stewed, . 


81 


Unfermented, . 


162 


Claret Cup, 


51 


Broil, To, Chickens, 


94 


Mulled, . 


52 


Broth, . . . . 


II 


Cocoa, 


. 38 


Cheap, . . 


20 


Cod Cutlets, . 


. 6s 


Chicken, 


19 


Coffee, . 


. 36 


Mutton, 


16 


Cordial, Ginger, 


51 


Panada, 


25 


Cornflour Indian Pudding, 


133 


Veal, 


18 


Cream, Crystal Palace, 


149 


Brown Biscuit Pudding, 


114 


Custai'd, 


149 


Butter Sauce, 


72 


French, . 


146 






Ice, . . 


152 


Cake, Geneva, 


166 


Lemon, . 


150 


Lunch, 


164 


Rice, 


148 


Rice, 


168 


Croquettes, 


99 


Sponge, . 


165 


Potato, . 


102 


Sweet Bread, . 


162 


Rice, 


118 


Cakes, . 


158 


Croustades, with Stewed 




Brain, 


92 


Fruit, . 


138 


Tea, . . 


161 


Crystal Palace Cream, 


. 149 


Calf s Liver Saute . 


90 


Crumb Pudding, 


123 


Sweetbreads, 


88 


Crust, Baked Suet, 


. 130 


Caper Sauce, . 


73 


Custard, Cream, 


. 149 


Caudle, . 


2 


French, . 


. 146 


Cauliflower, 


104 


Pudding, 


. 124 


Charlotte, Apple, 


136 


Rice Pudding, 


116 


Cheese, Macaroni, . 


115 


Cutlets, Beef, . 


. 83 


Chicken Broth, 


19 


Saute, 


. 84 


Boiling, 


94 


Cod, 


. 65 


Broiling, 


94 


Fillets of Mutton, 


. 78 


Fricassee of, 


95 


Lamb, 


82 


Panada, 


25 


Loin of Mutton, 


8c 


Roasting, 


94 


Neck of Mutton, 


79 



INDEX. 



171 





Pasre 




Pa 


Cutlets, Shoulder of Mutton, 81 


Geneva Cakes, , 


i( 


Veal, 


86 


German Omelets, 




Egg Drinks, 

Sauce Sharp, 

Soup, 

Eggs in Gravy, 
Scrambled, 


45 
73 
28 

55 
55 


Pudding, . 

Ginger Cordial, , 

Biscuits, . . 

Bread, . 

Gravy, Eggs in, 
Fillets of Sole in. 




Sur le plat, 

To Boil, 


. 54 
. 53 


Soup, 

Greens, 


ic 


To Poach, 

Endive, Stewed, 


54 
. 158 


Ground Rice Pudding, 

Gruel, . 

Barley, . . 


I] 


Extract of Spices, 


140 




Fillets of Mackerel, 


. 69 


Boiled Flour, . 




Fillets of Mutton Cut 


lets, 78 


Oatmeal, 




Fillets of, Plaice, 


70 


Onion, 




fried, 


. 63 


Restorative, 




. 


. 63 


Gum Arabic Milk, 






A 


Fig Pudding, 


129 


Water, . 


4 


Fish, 


59 






Flavourings for Pudc 


lings, 153 


Haddock, Baked, . 


i 


Flour, Baked, 


6 


Harricot Soup, 


2 


Boiled (Gruel), 


5 


Hartshorn Jelly, 


M 


Fool Apple, 


. 135 


Hasty Pudding, 


12 


French Beans, 


. 105 


Herrings, Fried, 


t 


Custard, . 


. 146 


Rolled, 


t 


Rice Cream, 


146 


Household Bread. . 


it 


Tapioca Puddin 


g, . 120 






Fricassee of Chicken 


95 


Iceland Moss Jelly, . 


M 


Rabbit, . 


. 98 


Ice Cream, 


15 


Fried Herrings, 


66 


Lemon Water, 


15 


Potatoes, 


lOI 


Ices, . . . . 


15 


Sole, 


62 


Indian Cornflour Pudding, 


i; 


TTillpfc- of 


. 63 


Invalids, Puddings for, 


J 






Fritters, Oyster, 


71 


Ivory Dust Jelly, 


. lA 


Fruit Pudding, 


. 131 






Fruits, Stewed, . 


. 137 


Jelly, Beef, . . 


] 


Croustades 


with, 138 


Hartshorn, 


ii 



172 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 





Page 




Page 


Jelly, Iceland Moss, 


143 


Milk, Rice, 


117 


Ivory Dust, 


142 


Soup, 


26 


Madeira, 


143 


Suet, 


46 


Tapioca, 


144 


Thick, 


46 


Wine, 


140 


Minced Meat, 


87 


Jellies, &c., 


140 


Mock Turtle Soup, . 


23 






Mulled Claret, 


52 


Kale, Sea, 


106 


Mutton Chops, 


77 






Stewed, 


81 


Lamb Cutlets, . 


82 


Broth, 


16 


Sweetbreads, . 


91 


Fillets of Cutlets, 


78 


Layer Pudding, 


. 131 


Loin of Cutlets, 


8c 


Lemon Cream, 


150 


Neck of Cutlets, 


79 


Pudding, 


127 


Shoulder of Cutlets, 


81 


Souffle, 


126 






Sponge, 


143 


Oatmeal Gruel, 


3 


Water, Ice, 


151 


Porridge, 


9 


Lemonade, 


40 


Pudding, 


134 


Linseed Tea, 


47 


Oatmeal Soup, . . 


28 


Little Dishes, 


76 


Water, 


. 43 


Loin of Mutton Cutlets, 


80 


Omelet, 


56 


Lozenges, Meat, 


26 


Soufflee, 


56 


Lunch Cake, 


164 


Omelets, German, . 
Onion Gruel, 


57 
7 


ISIacaroni Cheese, 


. "5 


Onions, 


106 


Pudding, Savoury, 


113 


Orange Marmalade, 


155 


Sherry, 


121 


Tonic, 


50 


Sweet, 


120 


Oyster Fritters, 


71 


^lackerel, Fillets of, 


. 69 


Oysters Scalloped, 


. 71 


Madeira Jelly, . 


143 






Marmalade, Apple, . 


155 


Panada, 


24 


Orange, 


. 155 


Broth, . 


25 


IVIarrow, Vegetable, 


. 107 


Chicken, 


25 


ISIeat Lozenges, 


26 


Milk, 


25 


Minced, 


87 


Water, . 


25 


Milk, Almond, 


48 


Parsley Sauce, 


72 


Gum Arabic, . 


46 


Parsnip Soup, 


30 


Panada, 


25 


Partridge, Stewed, . 


97 





INDEX. 


173 




Page 




Page 


Pastine Pudding, 


121 


Pudding, Sherry Sponge, . 


121 


Pigeon, Stewed, 


97 


Stonleigh, 


128 


Plaice, Fillets of, . 


70 


Victoria, . 


148 


Plum Pudding, 


129 


Puddings, Flavourings for. 


153 


Poach, To, an Egg, 


54 


for Invalids and Children, 127 


Porridge, Oatmeal, 


9 


Puree Vegetable, 


108 


Potato Croquettes, . 


102 






Potatoes, Fried, 


lOI 


Quenelles, 


92 


Posset, Treacle, 


50 






Preserved Strawberries, . 


157 


Rabbit, Fricassee of, 


98 


Prunes, Stewed, 


139 


Raspberry Vinegar, . 


49 


Pudding, Alexandra, 


125 


Red Currant S>Tup, . 


48 


Baked Batter, . 


128 


Relish, Ancho\'y, 


74 


Biscuit, . 


. 123 


Restorative Gruel, 


7 


Bread, 


. 133 


Rice Boiled with Sweet Sauce 


116 


Bro-RTi Bismit, . 


. 114 


Cakes, 


168 


Crumb, . 


123 


Cream, 


I 


Custard, 


. 124 


Frencii, 


146 


Pudding, Fig, . 


129 


Rice Croquettes, 


118 


French Tapioca, 


120 


Custard Pudding, 


116 


Fruit, 


131 


Milk, 


117 


German, . 


132 


Pudding, Ground, . 


119 


Ground Rice, . 


119 


Plain, 


116 


Hasty, . 


125 


Savoury, 


"3 


Indian Com Flour, . 

Layer, 




■.-i-.^4-V» rt»^«- Af^ll- 




131 


wimouL iUiik, 

Shape of. 


132 

147 


Lemon, . 


. 127 


Stewed apples and, . 


136 


Oatmeal, . 


134 


Water, 


43 


Pastine, . 


121 


Rolled Herrings, 


66 


Plain Rice, 


116 


Rolls, .... 


161 


Plum, 


129 


Rusk Pudding, 


122 


Rice Custard, . 


116 








132 
122 


Sauce, Butter, . , , 
Caper, 


72 
73 


Rusk, 


Savoury Bread, 


114 


Parsley, . 


72 


Macaroni, 


113 


Sharp Egg, 


73 


T> ;„^ 


113 


Sweet, 






117 


Semolina, 


119 


Tomato, . 


109 



174 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 





Page 




Page 


Sauce, White, . 


74 


Stewed Apples and Rice, . 


136 


Savoury Bread Pudding, . 


114 


Beef, 


85 


Macaroni Pudding, . 


113 


Chicken, . 


95 


Rice Pudding, . 


"3 


Endive, . 


108 


Scalloped Oysters, 


71 


Fruits, 


137 


Scrambled Eggs, 


55 


Croustades yA 


th, 138 


Sea Kale, 


106 


Mutton Chop, . 


81 


Semolina Pudding, . 


119 


Partridge, 


97 


Shape of Rice, 


147 


Pigeon, . , , 


97 


Sharp Egg Sauce, . 


73 


Prunes, . , , 


139 


Sheep's Brains, 


91 


Water-cress, 


108 


Sherry Macaroni, 


121 


Sponge Cake, . 


165 


Pastine, . 


121 


Stonleigh Pudding, 


128 


Shoulder of Mutton Cutlet 


5, 81 


Strawberries, Preserved, . 


157 


Sole, Baked, . 


62 


Suet Crust, Baked, . 


130 


Boiled, . 


61 


Milk, 


46 


Fillets of. Fried, 


63 


Sweet Macaroni, 


120 




63 


Sauce, 


117 




**/ 


Fried, 


62 


, Boiled Rice wit! 


1, 116 


Soup, Artichoke, 


30 


Sweetbread Cakes, . 


162 


Bread, . 


27 


Sweetbreads, Calf's, 


88 


Egg, 


28 


J _^ -^ j_^ 


91 




For Children, . 


26 


Syrup, Red Currant, 


. 48 


Gravy, 


21 






Haricot, . 


29 


Tamarind Water, 


43 


Milk, 


26 


Tapioca Jelly, . 


. 144 


Mock Turtle, . 


23 


Pudding, French, 


120 


Oatmeal, . . 


28 


Tea, . . . 


34 


Parsnip, . 


30 


Cakes, 


. 161 


White, . 


22 


Linseed, . 


47 


Souffle, Apple, 


. 135 


Thick Milk, . 


. 46 


Lemon, . 


. 127 


Toast Water, . 


44 


Spices, Extract of, . 


. 154 


Tomato Sauce, 


. 109 


Spinach, . 


104 


Tonic Orange, 


5c 


Spirits, . 


31 


Treacle Posset, 


5c 


Sponge Cakes, 


. 165 


Tripe, . 


. 85 


Lemon, . 


. 143 






Pudding Sheny, 


121 


Unfermented Bread, 


. 162 



IXDEX. 



175 



Vanilla, . 
Veal Broth, 

Cutlet, 

Vegetables, 
Vegetable Marrow, 

Puree, 

Victoria Pudding, 
Vinegar Raspberry, 

Water, 

Apple, . 

Barley, 

Black Currant Jam, 

Gum Arabic, , 



Page 
18 

86 

lOI 

107 

loS 

14S 

49 

39 
42 

5 
42 

47 



Water, Lemon Ice, 

Oatmeal, . 

Panada, 

Rice, 

Tamarind, 

Toast, 

Water-cress Stewed, 
White Sauce, 

Soup, 

Wine Whey, 

WTiiting, . 
Wine Jelly, 
Wines, . • 



Page 
151 
43 
25 
43 
43 
44 
108 

74 
22 

50 

64 

140 

31 




Turnbull cr' Spears, Printers. 



SEP 26 189? 




M' 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05987 670 4 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

• Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



