TX 715 
.045 
Copy 1 



EXPERIENCE ALLOWS NO DISPUTE. 




^ COLORADO 

Cook Book, 



PUBLISHED BY 



THE YOUNG Ladies' Mission Band 



CENTRAL PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH. 



DENVER, COLORADO. 



Price, 35 cei»ts. 



NIESZ & CO. 

KEEP NOTHING BUT 

Solid Boots and Shoes 

NO SHODDY. P^; 

No Paper Soles 




We sell you good 
Shoes at the same 
price common goods 
are sold, 



We will keep ours in repair [except the 
soles] until they are worn out. 



We are able, by our New German Method, to fit any 
foot, however crOOked, Wide or narrow it may be. Send in 
your orders by Postal Card. 



286 FIFTEENTH ST, 

DENVER. 



YoK cannot cook in Co/ or ado as you did East. 



COLORADO 



Cook Book, 



PUBLISH liU BY 



The Young Ladies' Mission Ba? 



ND 



CENTRAL PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH. 



EVERY RECIPE 

IN THIS BOOK IS ATTESTED BY THE LADY WHOSE NAME FOLLOWS 
IT. IF YOU FAIL TO GET GOOD RESULTS IT IS YOUR 
FAULT, AND NOT THE FAULT OF THE 
^ DIRECTIONS. 



FOR DIRECTIONS 

AS TO THE PLACES TO GET THE RIGHT KIND OF MATERIALS AND 



DO YOUR SHOPPING, SEE THE ADVERT1SEM.EN-TS - -^^ 
AT THE TOP OF THE PAGES. ''v.'V.X.^.^'^^^^ 

r. o ^^'"^ 7 1883 M 

jJOPYI^IQHTED. \^ H(>.J^.f^X3~,V/ 



^ vyA«wit4©t 



DENVER, COLORADO. 



a4 



AN INDISPENSIBI.E INGREDIENT. 

A young lady, whose mother was famous for her good cake, was once asked by some 
friends where she was visiting to make them some cake such as her mother made at 
home. She said she could not, as she did not have all the ingredients. To this they 
replied, that she would have no trouble on that account, as they would buy her every- 
thing she needed. "No," said she, "when mother makes a cake she puts in lots of 
common sense, and you cannot buy that at the store." Moral: Let all who use this 
Cook Book count this as part of each recipe : 

USE convrnvnoiT seijtse .A.ccoi2.3Di3src3- a?o t.a.ste. 



DENVER : f 

CULLIEK & CLEAVELAND, rUINTEKS •- 
188-. 



K 



— -^-^-f- — 

Tomato Soup. 

Pare and chop two good sized tomatoes. Put into one quart 
of boiling water, and let boil twenty minutes. Then turn in one 
quart of milk, at the same time adding a tea-spoon full of baking 
powder to prevent the ascidity of the tomatoes turning the milk. 
Add six rolled crackers, a piece of butter the size of an egg, salt, 
and let boil up. Add a little pepper. Mrs. Abbott. 



Tomato Soup. 



Haifa three-pound can of tomatoes, a pint and a half of boil- 
ing water. Boil fifteen minutes. Add a small salt-spoon full of 
cooking soda, and then a pint and a half of sweet milk. Salt, but- 
ter and pepper to taste. Crumb in a few oyster crackers. 

Mrs. Brooker. 

Potato Soup. 

Take Irish potatoes ; pare and cut into small bits, so that there 
will be about two quarts when they are all cut up. Put them in a 
pot containing about four quarts of boiling; water, and let them boil 
till soft. Put into a frying pan about half a cup full of butter; let 
it melt, and add a cup full of Hour; stir it and keep smoothing it 
with a knife till it is nicely brpwned. Do not let it get into too 
large lumps. Here and there a piece not quite as large as a pea 
will be right, but the most of it should be finer. When the potatoes 
are done, put the browned flour into the pot with them. Season 
with pepper and salt, and the soup is done. Mrs. H. C. Doll. 



Noodle Soup. 

For Stock: Boil one shin of beef, and strain; after it cools, 
skim off fat. For noodles : One egg, half an egg-shell of water, 
one tea-spoon full of salt, flour to mix. Roll thin as paper; then 
roll as you do a jelly cake, and cut very thin and spread to dry. 
On the second day put on the stock and heat to boiling hot, then 
add the noodles and boil ten minutes. Mrs. J. Montgomery. 



SOUPS-MEATS. 



B. L JAMES & CO., 

Mixed House Paints, 

PAINTS, OILS, GLASS AND WALL PAPER. 

373 Arapahoe Street, Denver, Colorado. 

Bouillon. 

To three pounds of lean beef, oft' the round, and chopped fine, 
take two quarts of cold water ; let it simmer for four or five hours, 
or till all the juice is extracted from the meat ; let it come to a 
boil once in a while, then skim. After the juice is extracted, 
season with salt and pepper, then strain and serve hot. 

For Soup. — Cook rice, barley, tomatoes and potatoes well, 
and then add to this liquor, letting them simmer together for half 
an hour. Mrs. H. C. Doll. 

Barley Souii. 

Buy a shank and have the butcher cut it into several pieces ; 
wash it and put it into cold water to boil ; add salt and boil three 
or four hours. Set it aside. The next day take off' all the fat. 
Strain it. Add vegetables to suit. As soon as it boils put in 
your barley, one cup full or more, according to quantity, and let 
it boil one hour. Mrs. George. 



DyCEA-TS. 



'^^flh-^ 



Siiiotliered Clilckeii. 

Dress young chickens ; wash and let them stand in water half an 
hour to make them white ; put in a baking pan (first cutting them 
open at the back ;) sprinkle salt and pepper over them, and put 
a lump of butter here and there, then cover tightly .with another 
pan the same size, and bake one hour. Baste often with butter. 
A delicious dish. It is a Southern method. 

Mrs. H. C. Doll. 



MEATS— ENTREES. 



J. COLLIER, 

PHOTOGRAPHER, 

415K LARIMER STREET, 

Denver, Colorado. 

Veal Loaf. 

Three pounds finely chopped veal, three eggs, six small crack- 
ers, two table-spoons full of salt, one tea-spoon full of pepper ; 
mix well ; bake two hours ; add a little butter. Baste with butter 
and water. Mrs. H. C. Doll. 



Miiice liOaf. 



Six pounds of raw veal or beef, twelve water crackers rolled 
fine, six eggs beaten together light, two table-spoons full of salt, 
two table-spoons full of pepper, and butter the size of an egg, 

Mrs. Howard. 



"^{^^^Z/""-*— * — — — *— •-'I'Z/Z^t 



-•^1^- 



Cliickcii Croquettes. 

Two pounds of cold fowl or veal, two or three sweet-breads 
par-boiled and minced fine, season with salt, nutmeg, cayenne 
pepper, rind and juice of a lemon, a tea-spoon full of French 
mustard, butter the size of an egg, one egg. Wet the whole with 
milk or cream sufticient to make a paste, mould in forms with the 
hands fimnel shape, cover with cracker-crumbs and egg, fry in 
lard light brown ; insert a sprig of parsley in the small end after 
they are fried. Send to the table hot. 

Mrs. John Howard. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Season cold mashed potatoes with pepper and salt ; beat to a 
cream, with a table-spoon full melted butter to every cup full of 



ENTREES. 



J. J. Smedley, D. D. S. J. H. Beals, D. D. S. 

Drs. Smedley & Beals, 

DENTISTS, 

Room 7, Skinner's Block, Cokner i6th and Lawrence Streets, Denver. 

Nitrous oxide gas used for the painless extraction of teeth. 

potatoes. Add two well beaten eggs and some minced parsley. 
Roll into small balls, dip in beaten ^%'g, then in crumbs and fry 
in hot lard. Mrs. W. F. Thompson. 



Omelet. 

Three eggs; beat whites and yolks separately; one tea-spoon 
full of flour beaten with yolks; a piece of butter half as large as 
an English walnut, melted in a cup of sweet milk. Stir in the 
whites just before putting it in the well buttered spider, and add 
a little salt. Partly cook on top of the stove and set in the oven 
to brown. A. V. Wells. 

Macaroiiii and Clieese. 

Boil the macaroni until tender. Then put in an earthern dish 
first a layer of macaroni, then one of grated cheese. Add butter 
and a little salt. Fill the dish with milk and put in the oven 
until brown. 

Same as above with the exception of mushrooms with the 
cheese. Mrs. Abbott. 

Clieese. 

One tea-cup full of cheese, two tea-cups full of milk, two tea- 
cups full of bread crumbs, tea-spoon of pepper, salt, a little 
mustard. Mrs. Abbott. 

Iiitliaii Bannock. 

Into one pint of corn meal stir one pint of sour milk, half tea- 
spoon full of salt, one table-spoon full melted butter, two table- 
spoons full sugar, two well beaten eggs; then stir one pint of 
wheat flour, half tea-spoon full of soda dissolved in warm water. 
Bake fifteen minutes in shallow pan. Mrs. Howard. 



ENTREES. 



MADAME KEITH, 

FASHIONABLE MODISTE 



SHOPPING and DRESS REFORM AGENCY. COUNTRY ORDERS 
SOIilCITED. SAMPIiE OP GOODS SENT. 



Cutting and Fitting a Specialty. 

and DRESS REFORM AGENCY. COUNT] 
SOIilCITED. SAMPIiE OF GOODS SENT 

471 Champa Street, Denver, Colorado. 

Calf's Brains. 

Soak in salt and water an hour. Par-boil five minutes, adding 
to the water one tea-spoon full vinegar and a little salt. Then 
plunge them into cold water. When cool, remove the fibrous 
membranes around them, cut in neat slices about one-half inch 
thick, egg and bread-crumb them and fry in a skillet with part 
butter and part lard, mostly lard. Mrs. M. Benedict. 



Fried. S^veet Breads. 



Cooked exactly the same as brains, except to parboil a little 
longer and do not add the vinegar. Mrs. M. Benedict 



Sweet-ljread Croquettes. 



Soak two sets of sweet-breads in salt and water for an hour. 
Then par-boil twenty minutes. When, cool remove li-ttle pipes 
and skin and cut in small bits. Make a roux by putting in a 
sauce pan one table-spoon full of butter; when bubbling hot stir 
in one and one-half table-spoons full flour and add one tea-cup 
full of milk; let come to a boil. Add to this the bits of sweet- 
breads; take from the fire, add the yolks of two well beaten eggs 
and return to the fire a few minutes to set, but do not boil. 
When cool, form into croquettes, roll them first in cracker 
crumbs, then dip in beaten egg, then again in cracker, and fry in 
boiling lard. Mrs. M. Benedict. 




VEGETABIiES. 



KILPATRICK & BROWN, 

FURNITURE. 

The largest and Best Furniture House in Denver 
410 AND 412 LAWRENCE. 






■•^l^-r- 



Frlecl Corn. 



Cut down through each row with a knife, then cut from the ear. 
Put into spider couple slices of pork, frying out the fat; then put 
in the corn, frying about fifteen minutes, turning often to keep 
from burning, but letting both sides brown. Mrs. Abbott. 



Fried Tomatoes. 



Have the tomatoes all even size, rather small than large. Peel 
them; Roll in Hour, in which mix salt and pepper. Have ready 
a skillet of hot drippings or butter into which drop them. Fry 
brown and turn them, taking care to preserve the form. It will 
take about half an hour to fry done. Then lift on to meat platter 
carefully, turn milk with a little butter into skillet, or cream is 
better, season and thicken with flour, and turn over tomatoes. 
Makes a nice breakfast or supper dish. Mrs. H. C. Doll. 



Fried Sqiiasli. 

Take crooked neck squash, cut it in thin slices and soak for 
about two hours in salt and water. Dip in a batter made of milk, 
eg^ and flour, then fry brown in butter. Mrs. Abbott. 



Corn Oyster^. 

One pint of grated green corn, two eggs, as much wheat flour 
as will make it adhere together; beat the eggs, mix them with 
the grated corn, add flour to make a paste ; fry as you do oysters. 

Mrs. John Howard. 



VEGETABLES— SAL.ADS. 9 

H. G. DIERCKS. 



DAY & DIERCKS, 



MANUFACTURERS. 



And General Job Workers in Metal, 

290 Seventeenth Street, Denver, Colorado, 

Restaurant and hotel work. Dairy cans and shipping cans for 
oils. We pay special attention to job work of every description. 

Oreeii Com Piiddiug. 

Take one dozen ears of sweet corn, one pint cream, three 
eggs, four table-spoons full of flour, one table-spoon full of sugar, 
a little butter and salt to the taste. Grate the corn, beat the eggs 
and stir all well together, the whites last. Bake one hour. 

Mrs. Howard. 



a^— }-%■ 



Cold Slaw. 

Otie tea-spoon full of flour, two tea-spoons full of sugar, one 
tea-spoon full of mustard, one-half cup full of milk, one-half cup 
full of vinegar, one spoon full of butter, one egg and one-half 
tea-spoon full each of salt and pepper. Mix flour, sugar, mus- 
tard, milk and eggs; heat vinegar boiling hot and then stir in 
vcixyXMx it very rapidly ; let boil one minute and then pour over 
cabbage chopped fine. Einima V. Ratcliffe. 



Cream Dressing for Salad. 



One cup of sweet cream. Heat almost to boiling. Stir in a 
table-spoon full ot corn starch, wet with a little milk first. Roil 
two minutes, stirring all the time. Add two tea-spoons full of 
sugar, and take from fire. When half cold beat in whipped whites 
of two eggs When cold whip in two table-spoons full of best 
salad oil, some pepper, made mustard, salt, three table-spoons 
full of vinegar, and pour it over the salad. Mrs. George. 



10 SAI.ADS. 

irPTsFlNING; 

DEALER IN 

^ PAPER, z^- 

369 HoLLADAv Street, Denver, Colorado. 

Dealer in Book, News and Wrapping Paper, Paper Bags, Printers' Ruled Goods r 
News, Book and Job Inks ; Gold Leaf, Bronze Powders, and Printers' Supplies gen- 
erally. Telephone No. 332. 

Grreeii Dressing for Liettnce or Fisli. 

Two medium sized pickles, two anchovies or a tea-spoon full 
of the paste of three soft and two hard boiled eggs, the yolks 
only, one tea-spoon full of French mustard, two even table-spoons- 
full of chopped parsley, salt to taste. Rub up with oil to the con- 
sistency of cream, Mrs. John Howard. 



Cliickeu Salad. 



Beat the yolks of three raw eggs very light in a deep dish and 
mix in gradually one pint of olive oil. Then add one and one- 
half table-spoons full of mustard, mix the yolks of four hard 
boiled eggs with two mashed potatoes and one-half tea-cup full 
of vinegar. Stir this slowly and lightly into the former. Clean and 
chop four heads of celery leaving it to soak in cold water ; then 
turn it into a cloth and wring it dry. Preserve the leaves to gar- 
nish the dish. This dressing is sufficient for one pair of large 
chickens, the meat of which must be chopped fine and seasoned 
with salt and pepper before the dressing. Mrs. Spining. 



Mexican Clilclcen Salad. 



Boil tender one nice chicken, chop the meat well, removing 
every scrap of fat, gristle and skin. Take the best part of a small 
cabbage, discarding all the pith and green leaves. Chop fine. 
There should be about one pint when chopped. Chop half as 
much cellery, and mix well with the chicken. Boil four eggs very 
hard. Work the yolks to a paste. Take a gill of good sweet 
olive oil, or a gill of melted butter, and mix it with the ^t^-g. Add 
one tea-spoon full of pepper, two table-spoons full of mixed mus- 
tard, one tea-spoon full of vinegar, and one table-spoon full of 
salt. If you like, add half a cup of grated horse radish. Mix it 
all together half an hour before using. Mrs. GEORCiE. 



SALADS— SAUCES. ii 



SKINNER BROS. & WRIGHT, 

WHOLESALE 

CLOTHING, FURNISHING GOODS, 

AND MERCHANT TAILORING. 
Corner Lawrence and Sixteenth Streets, Denver, Colorado. 

-Liobster Salad. 

To the yolks of four hard-boiled ^gg'i add a little pepper and 
salt and a gill of vinegar. Stir this all together. Cut up some 
celery or cabbage fine, mix carefully with the lobster in the dish 
in which it is to be .served. Then pour the mixture over it. 

Mrs. George. 

Tomato Salad. 

Take off the skins, cut in thin slices, and lay in a salad bowl. 
Make a dressing by working a tea-spoon full of salt and made 
mustard, a little pepper, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, with 
two table-spoons full of melted butter. Then whip in five table- 
spoons full of good vinegar. Pour over the tomatoes, and let it 
cool for an hour before serving. Mrs. George. 



S^TJOES. 



Wild Plum Catsup. 

To ten pounds of plums take five pounds of sugar. Boil, mash 
and strain the fruit. For every quart of juice add rather more 
than one and one-half pints of vinegar. Add cinnamon, cloves 
and nutmeg. Boil fifteen minutes. Mrs. Howard. 



Tomato Catsup. 

Boil tomatoes and strain in a sieve. To one gallon of juice put 
four spoons full of salt, four of black pepper, four of ground 
mustard, three of allspice, two of cinnamon, one cup of sugar, 
one quart of vinegar. Boil until thick. Mrs. L. B. France. 



l« SAUCES. 



ROBT MARQUIS & CO., 

Corner i6th and Stout Streets, Denver, 
(Bancroft Block.) 

Dealers in Fine Groceries, 

CHOICE FRUITS, ETC. 

Cold Catsup. 

Peel one-half peck ripe tomatoes, cut in small pieces, drain in 
sieve. One cup full of salt, one cup full of sugar, one cup full of 
mustard seed, one root of horse radish grated, two roots of 
celery chopped (good sized ones), two table-spoons full of black 
pepper, one tea-spoon full of cinnamon, one tea-spoon full of 
allspice, one tea-spoon full of mace, three pints of strong cider 
vinegar. Ready for use in a week. Mrs. Abbott. 



Cli^ll Sauce. 

Three dozen large, ripe tomatoes, one dozen onions, eight 
green peppers, twelve tea-cups full of vinegar, three tea-spoons 
full each of cloves, cinnamon and ginger, five table-spoons full of 
salt, sugar to taste. Chip fine and boil four hours, or until thick 
as you like. Mrs. D. B. Keeler. 



Cliill Sauce. 

Eleven pounds of tomatoes peeled, six green peppers, three 
large onions, four coffee-cups full of vinegar, three table-spoons 
full of salt, six table-spoons full of sugar, three tea-spoons full 
each of ginger, cloves, allspice, cinnamon and nutmeg. Chop the 
tomatoes, peppers and onions. Boil two or three hours. 

Mrs. Kilpatrick. 




PICKL.ES. la 



Robertson Carriage Co. 



Fine Carriages, 



MANUFACTORY, 

REPOSITORY, 

REPAIRING, ^ A^ji^ ^•^^Aj.Av^w 

379 and 381 Arapahoe, between 15th and i6th Streets. 



N. ROBERTSON, Manage?-. p. o. 80x2321. H. C. DOLL, Secretary 



^^ IPIGKIIjIBS. ^- 

CllOWCllOAV. 

One peck green tamatoes, three onions, six green peppers, all 
chopped, one-half pint of salt. Let them stand over night in a 
cullender or sieve, then drain off the brine. Cover with vinegar 
and boil slowly one hour. Put this into a kettle. Take one 
pound of brown sugar, one table-spoon full of ground cinnamon, 
one table-spoon full of allspice, one-half tea-spoon full of cloves, 
one-half tea-spoon full oi pepper, one-fourth cup full of mustard. 
Add it to three pints of vinegar, boil it and pour over the chopped 
pickles and cover up. " Mrs. Abbott. 



Ciiciinil>er Pickles. 



-Put the cucumbers down in salt and let them stand twenty- 
four hours. Then take them out and drain. Put enough vinegar 
over the fire to cover the pickles. Spice with black pepper, 
cloves, allspice, bay leaves, horse radish and green peppers. Let 
this all come to a boil, then put in the cucumbers and skim while 
boiling. Take out the cucumbers and place them in a jar, and 
pour the hot vinegar over them. Then put them in a cool place. 

Mrs. L. B. France. 



Wasliiii^on Pickle. 



One peck of green tomatoes, two onions, two green peppers, 
a hand full of horse radish. Cliop fine and sprinkle with salt. 
Let them stand twenty-four hours, then drain. If too salt pour 
fresh water through them. When drained spice with one table- 



I* BREADS. 



J. A. Chain. S. B. Hardy. B. C. Bancroft. 

CHAIN & HARDY, 

BOOKSELLERS ^^ STATIONERS, 

Art Department Second Floor. 

PICTURES. ARTISTS' MATERIALS, FRAMES, 

Motddings , FisJmig Tackle, Fancy Goods, Etc. 

414 Larimer Street, Denver, Colorado. 

spoon full of cloves, one table-spoon full of cinnamon, two table- 
spoons full of white mustard seed, one table-spoon full of celery 
seed, one pound of sugar. Cover with o^ood vinegar. Cook 
slowly three or four hours, stirring often, Mrs. Raymond. 






Excellent Baker's Yeast. 

Pare nine potatoes the size of an q%^. Then take one pint of 
hops, tie them in a muslin bag and put them with the potatoes in 
a pot with three pints of water, and boil until the potatoes are 
very soft and there remains one quart of water. Take out the 
hops and mash the potatoes through a cullender into a stone jar. 
Add one table-spoon full of ginger, two of salt, three of brown 
sugar and one coffee-cup full of good, fresh hop yeast. It should 
be mixed rather warm and kept in a warm place to ferment. Let 
it stand twenty-four hours, then stir well and put into a glass jar 
or stone jug and cover tightly. Stir up when used as the potatoes 
settle to the bottom. One tea-cup full of this will make three 
loaves of bread. Save one coffee-cup full to start new yeast again. 
Do not put flour in this yeast. Mrs. E. S. Hays. 



Brown Bread. 



Three tea-cups full of graham flour, two tea-cups full of corn 
meal, one-third tea-cup full of molasses, three large cups of milk, 
one tea-spoon full of soda, a little salt. Bake one and one-half 
hours. Mrs. Keeler. 



BREADS. 15 

Donald Fletcher. Osgar R. Burchard. 

FLETCHER & BURCHARD, 



BROKERS, 



^^45 Sixteenth Street, Denver, Colorado. 

Peal in all kinds of Real Estate in Colorado and the Territories. Effect Loans on Real 

Estate. Make Investments for Non-Residents. Have more than 2,000 Lots on 

Capitol Hill, the finest residence portion of Denver. We solicit the business 

of all who have property to sell or wish to purchase, and of those 

who wish to loan or borrow money. 

Yeast. 

Peel and boil six medium sized potatoes in three pints of 
water. Wiien soft pour off the water on half a pint of flour. 
Mash potatoes thoroughly and stir into the flour and water. Put 
aside to cool. Soak one cake of Ashard's dry yeast. . .When soft 
stir into the mixture. After the first rising beat thoroughly, allow 
it to rise again, and after a second beating pour into a close 
covered vessel and keep it cool. Will keep several weeks. One 
cup full is sufficient for four loaves. Mrs. R. Holme. 



AVliite Bread. 



Allow a pint of wetting to each loaf of bread. Let half of this 
be buttermilk, or sour milk. Take some flour in a pan, and put 
in some lard, allowing a half a table-spoon full to each loaf. Pour 
over this the hot whey from the scalded milk. Sift flour, adding 
cold water enough to wet the quantity of flour you wish, and soft 
yeast in the proportion of a gill for two loaves. In mixing this 
sponge, it should be beaten very thoroughly. When light, knead 
well, adding flour to make it quite stiff. Let it rise again until 
very light, and mold lightly, adding as little flour as possible, and 
put in well greased tins. Mrs. L. Brooker. 



Buns. 

Three cups of sweet milk warmed, one cup of sugar, one cup 
of yeast. Thicken with flour to a batter and let rise over night, 
very light. Then add one cup of butter and one cup of sugar, 
worked thoroughly together first, three-fourth pound of currants, 
one tea-spoon full of soda, some nutmeg; thicken to dough to 
mould and rise again. Then roll out and make in small balls and 
put far apart in pans and rise very light. When baked rub over 
with butter. Mrs. Abbott. 



BRSADS. 



Wm. T. Rogers. C. W. McCord. 

ROGERS & MCCORD, 

ATTORNEYS-AT-LAW, 

ROOMS 28 AND 29, 283 FIFTEENTH STREET, 

Den'ver, Colorado. 

Brown Bread. 

One cofFee-cup full of milk, one-half coffee-cup full of mo- 
lasses, salt-spoon full of salt, graham flour to make into batter 
about as thick as for cake, two heaping tea-spoons full of baking 
powder. Bake one hour in moderate oven. Mrs. Spining. 

Pounded Biscuit. 

One pint of water, a small tea-cup full of lard or butter, a 
little salt. Make very stiff and work until brittle. Make out 
with the hand. Do not roll too thin. Prick with a fork. Bake 
in rather slow oven until dry through. Mrs. Howard. 



Potato Biscnit. 



Two pints of mashed potatoes, without milk, very small tea- 
cup full of lard. Knead very stiff. One tea-cup full of yeast. If 
wanted for tea make in the morning. Make out in rolls after 
dinner. Mrs. Howard. 



MiiMns. 



Beat four eggs separately. Take a little less than a pint of 
milk and the same quantity of flour. Add a tea-spoon full of 
sugar, a salt-spoon full of salt and a table-spoon full of melted 
butter. Dissolve two tea-spoons full of baking powder in the 
milk. To be eaten very hot. Miss Armsby. 



Muffins. 



Mix one quart of flour with one and one-half pints of milk, 
two well beaten eggs, one tea-spoon full of salt, two tea-spoons 
full of baking powder, two table-spoons full of melted butter. 
Put in buttered rings or cups and bake till a light brown, 

E. E. Raymond. 



BREADS. IT 



C. N. GUYER, 

DENTIST. 

Nitrons Oxide Gas used for the painless extraction of teei/i. 

Lawrence Street, between i6th and 17th, I ^ T'^'P\]\''Th l> 

Room 37, King Block, \ UEI\ V Ll\. 

Steamed Corn Bread. 

Three cups full of corn meal, one cup full of flour, three cups 
full of milk, one cup nearly full of molasses, one tea-spoon full 
of soda, one tea-spoon full of salt. Steam four hours. 

E. E. Raymond. 

Frencli Rolls. 

One quart of warm water or milk, one tea-cup full of home 
made potato yeast, a little salt, stir in flour to make thick sponge 
and set in moderately warm place for four or five hours. When 
light add one well beaten egg, two table-spoons full of melted 
butter or lard and flour to make soft dough. Knead well. Let 
rise till light, when roll and cut. Spread each roll with a little 
butter and lap over one half upon the other. When very light 
bake fifteen or twenty minutes in hot oven. 

Mrs. M. Benedict. 

Oraliain. Bread. 

One cup full of sweet milk, one cup full of sour milk, one 
table-spoon full of molasses, one tea-spoon full of soda, one tea- 
spoon full of salt, graham flour to mix a stiff" batter. Bake one 
hour. Mrs. W. F. Thompson. 

Soft Gingerbread. 

One tea-cup full of molasses, one tea-cup full of butter, half a 
tea-cup full of boiling water poured over and stirred in one pint 
of flour. Bake in a shallow pan. Mrs. Howard. 



Gingerbread . 

One cup of butter, one cup of molasses, spice to taste, one cup 
of sour milk, one cup of sugar, two and a half cups of Mour, four 
eggs, two tea-spoons full of soda. Mrs. D. B. Keeler. 



18 PANCAKES. 

Domestic Bakery, 

J. E. BUSSEY, Proprietor, 

BREAD, CAKES AND PIES. 

58T and 589 Cliampa Street, Denver, Colo. 

The only exclusive Wholesale Delivery Wagons in the city. 

GOODS DELIVERED TO ALL, PARTS. 






Apple Fritters. 

To one pint of sour milk add a little salt, and half a tea-spoon 
full of soda. Put in chopped apple (tart). Use enough flour to 
make quite stifif, and fry in lard. Mrs. Abbott. 



Potato Pancakes. 

Grate seven or eight good sized potatoes. Drain off all the 
water through a sieve, then scald with half a pint of boiling sweet 
milk. Add yolks of four or five eggs. Mix well. Add salt, and 
half a cup of flour. Add whites of eggs, beaten stiff. 

Miss Armsbv. 



Griddle Cakes. 



One pint of sour milk, part of it cream if convenient. Flour to 
make medium thick batter. A little salt. Half a tea-spoon full 
of soda, dissolved in a table-spoon full of warm water. Last of 
all, two eggs, well beaten. These cakes can be varied by making 
batter of part corn meal and part flour. Mrs. M. Benedict. 




CAKES. 19 



COLLIER & CLEAVELAND, 

Lithographers, Steam Printers, 

BLANK BOOK MANUFACTURERS, 

386 Holladay Street. 



Magazines and Pictorials ( 
Bouiitl to Order. | 




White Cake. 



Whites of one dozen eggs, two full cups of A sugar, half cup of 
butter, half cup of lard, three cups of flour, two tea-spoons full of 
baking powder, half cup of milk, one table-spoon full of corn 
starch. Mrs. Wallace. 



White Cake. 



Two cups of sugar, half cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, 
three cups of flour, whites of four eggs, three tea-spoons full of 
baking powder. Beat sugar and butter to a cream, then stir in 
the milk and flour. Add whites of eggs last. Mrs. Abbott. 



W^liite Cake. 



Half a cup of butter, one and one-half cups of sugar, three cups 
of flour, whites of five eggs, two thirds of a cup of sweet milk, 
one tea-spoon full of baking powder. Mrs. J. S. Dillon. 



Silver Cake. 



One and a half cups of pulverized sugar, half a cup ol butter, 
two and a half cups of flour, half a cup of milk, whites of six eggs, 
one tea-spoon full of baking powder. The lunger beaten the 
better. " ' Mks. D. E. Keelek. 



20 CAKES. 



W. F. THOMPSON, 



DEALER IN 



Native and Eastern Lumber, 

MSH, DOORg, BLWDg AND BOILOiM PAPER. 

196 Sixteenth Street, Denver, Colorado. 



Yankee Cake. 



One teacup of sugar, three teacups of flour, one egg, two table- 
spoons full of butter, one tea-spoon full of cream tartar, half tea- 
spoon full of soda, one cup of sour cream, to be mixed with the 
flour. Mrs. Howard. 



Clioeolate Cake. 



One cup of sugar, one cup of milk, two eggs, one table-spoon 
full of butter, two and a third cups of flour, two tea-spoons full of 
baking powder. For frosting, use the whites of two eggs, mix 
with sugar and grated chocolate ; or cocoanut may be used in- 
stead. Rake in three layers. E. E. Raymond. 



Cocoanut Cake. 



Two-thirds of a cup of butter, two cups of sugar, two and a 
half cups of flour, half a cup of sweet milk, six eggs, two tea- 
spoons full of baking powder. For frosting, beat the whites ot 
three eggs to a froth, add nine table-spoons full of sugar (pulver- 
ized), and half a pound of cocoanut. Spread like jelly cake. 

Mrs. Abbott. 



Zollicoffer Cake. 

Half a cup of butter, one cup of sugar, two cups of flour, half a 
cup of milk, three eggs, one tea-spoon full of baking powder. 

Filling. — One cup of sugar to one egg and two table-spoons 
full of water, one cup of figs cut up fine, one-quarter of a cup of 
citron, one cup of almonds blanched and cut up, one cup of stoned 
raisins. Make in two layers and spread between, like jelly cake. 

Mrs. Abbott. 



CAKBS. al 



J. M. BAGLEY, 

DESIGNER AND 

ENGRAVER ON WOOD 



Room 91 Tabor Opera House, 

iti^'^yavi-r of the Rncky Aloiottaiits. } 
EsladUs/iCii JS72. j 



T/ie Pioneer Eitift-avfr o_f the Rocky AToiiHtahis. ? T~)'R'l\JV"R'R (^OTO 



Webster Cake. 



One cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, one cup of milk, one 
cup of butter, two eggs, one pound of raisins, one tea-spoon of 
soda, spice of all kinds, sufficient flour to make it thick enough to 
drop. Bake three hours. If one loaf, add citron and currants. 

Mrs. Abbott. 



Corn Starcli Cake. 



Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, 
two cups of flour, one cup of corn starch, whites of eight eggs, one 
tea-spoon full of baking powder. Frosting : Seven table-spoons 
of grated chocolate, whites of three eggs, half cup of pulverized 
sugar. Mrs. Abbott. 



Orange Cake. 

One cup milk, four cups flour, two cups sugar, butter the size 
of an egg. Beat the yolks of five eggs and the sugar and butter 
to a cream. Add the whites, beaten to a stiff' froth. Then add 
the flour. 
Jelly. — One cup of sugar, four oranges, whites of four eggs. 

Mrs. W. F. Thompson. 



Orange Cake. 

Two tea -cups of sugar, five eggs beaten together, three cups of 
flour, two tea-spoons full of baking powder, half a cup of water, a 
pinch of salt, the juice and grated rind of one large orange. Be- 
tween layers put frosting made as follows : Whites of four eggs 
beaten to a stiff" froth, two and a half cups of sugar, one tea-spoon 
full of corn starch, the juice and grated rind of one large orange. 

Mrs. Ed. S. Day. 



^2 CAKKS. 



John Sinclair. . R. W. Callaway. John M. Walker. 

John Sinclair & Co., 

MERCHANT TAILORS, 

Men's Furnishers & Shirt Manufacturers, 

384 LARIMER ST. 

JD'JElJ^'^T'^lTl, - - . _ COX-iO:E^-^3DO. 

Delicate Cake. 

The whites of nine eggs, half a cup of butter, one and a halt 
cups of pulverized sugar, half a tea-spoon full of extract of lemon, 
even tea-spoon full of baking powder^two cups of sifted flour, half 
a cup of sweet milk. Mrs. Kilpatrick. 

^Vafer Cake. 

One egg, a small piece ot butter, flavor with lemon, mix all 
with flour, roll very thin, and fry in hot lard. When cold, sprinkle 
with sugar. Mrs. George. 

Hickoryniit Cake. 

Two and a half cups of sugar, one cup of butter, four cups of 
flour, one cup of new milk, whites of nine eggs, half tea-spoon full 
of soda in two tea-spoons full of water, one tea-spoon full of cream 
of tartar, one pint of nuts chopped fine, one pound stoned raisins, 
half pound of fresh dates. Bake two and a half hours in a slow 
oven. Mrs. Howard. 



Two-thirds of a cup of butter, one and two-thirds cups of sugar, 
three cups of flour, four eggs, half a cup of milk, one tea-spoon 
I of baking powder. Flavor to taste. Mrs. Abbott. 



Orange Cake. 

Two scant cups of sugar, three and a half cups of flour, a pinch 
of salt, the yolks of five eggs, the whites of three eggs, the juice 
and grated rind of one orange, half a cup of cold water, two tea- 
spoons full of baking powder. Icing: Beat whites of two eggs to 
stifle froth, add sugar and the juice and rind of one orange. Spread 
and put together. E. E. Raymond. 



CAKES. 33 



JOHNSON & CO., 

PLUMBERS, 

OA^ A^ivo !S5;tea.3j: fitters, 

?e?ep?o°nViSi: DENVER, COLO. 

VENTILATION AND SEWERAGE. 

Sponge CaUe. Very Nice. 

Three-quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, half a pound of 
sifted flour, ten eggs, a tea-spoon full of extract of lemon. Beat 
the yolks first. Add the powdered sugar. Beat the whites to a 
stiff froth. To the yolks and sugar add alternately a handful of 
the flour and a spoon full of the whites, stirring very slowly. 

Mrs, L. Brooker. 

Pork Cake. 

One pound fat salt pork, free from lean or rind, chopped So 
fine as to be like lard ; half pint boiling water poured over this ; 
one pound raisins, seeded and chopped ; quarter of a pound of 
citron, shaved into shreds ; half pound figs, chopped, (this maybe 
omitted) ; two cups of sugar ; one cup of molasses, into which stir 
one tea-spoon full of saleratus rubbed fine, four and a half pints 
of flour, one ounce of nutmeg, one ounce of cloves, two ounces of 
cinnamon. Bake slowly until done. Mrs. Abbott. 



Black Frnit Cake. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one pound of butter, 
twelve eggs. Beat the butter and sugar. Add the flour and eggs. 
To this add four pounds raisins, two pounds of currants, one 
pound of citron, half an ounce of cloves, one ounce of cinnamon, 
one nutmeg, a little salt. Flour the fruit well, and stir into the 
cake. Bake two hours, letting it cool over night, in the oven if 
possible. Mrs. Spining. 

Sponge Cake. 

Three eggs, two cups of pulverized sugar, two cups of flour 
measured after it is sifted, half a cup of cold water. Bake pretty 
fast. Mrs. L. B. France. 



34: CAKES. 



. AV. A. HOVER & CO., 

—DEALER IN — 

DRUGS, FINE GHEMICAIS, EXTdllCIli, iC, 

Cor. Sixteenth and Curtis Sts. 

Sponge Cake. 

The weight of three eggs in sugar, and the weight of two eggs 
in flour. Beat the yolks and whites separately, and mix them 
with the sugar. Then add the flour. Stir as little as possible to 
mix all together. Flavor with the juice and grated rind of half a 
lemon, or one tea-spoon full of lemon extract. Put into oven 
without delay. Mrs, Wilder. 

Sponge Cake. 

Ten eggs (if large, eight), two scant cups of flour, two scant 
cups of sugar. Beat yolks and sugar thoroughly ; then whites ; 
mix, and add flour. Bake in quick oven twenty minutes. 

Mrs. Keeler. 



Hot^W^ater Sponge Cake. 



Six eggs, two cups full of sugar, two and three-fourths cups of 
flour, half a cup of boiling water. Beat the yolks and sugar to a 
froth; also beat the whites to a stifl" froth. Add the boiling water 
to the yolks and sugar, next the whites, and last of all the flour. 
Mix one and a half tea-spoons full of baking powder with the 
flour. Flavor with lemon. Bake in two sheets, in a moderate 
oven. Mrs. S. B. Hardy. 



Delicious Fruit Cake. 



Four eggs, five cups of flour, two cups of sugar, one cup of 
molasses, one and a half cups of butter, one cup of sour milk, one 
pound of seeded raisins, quarter of a pound of citron, one tea- 
spoon full of soda, one tea-spoon full each of cloves, cinnamon 
and mace, the rind of one lemon grated. Makes two large loaves. 

Mrs. L. B. France. 



CAKES— COOKIES. 35 



E. A. TUN N ELL & CO., 

Denver's Confectioners, 

■ 370 CURTIS STREET. 
QmBAMB, iCESi ANB FANQY GAMEB, 

Clove Cake. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of raisins, one pound of flour, 
half pound of butter, four eggs, one cup of sweet milk, one tea- 
spoon full of soda, one table-spoon full of cloves, one table-spoon 
full of cinnamon. Mrs. W. H. WXllace. 



OOOKIIES. 



Cookies. 




Two cups full of sugar, one cup full of butter, one-half cup 
full of milk, four eggs, two tea-spoons full of cream tartar, one 
tea-spoon full of soda. Flavor with lemon and nutmeg. 

Mrs. Wm. Hastings. 



Oraudma's Plain Cookies. Witlioiit Eggs. 

Six heaping cups full of flour. Into this rub thoroughl)^ three- 
fourths of a cup full of butter, add two heaping cups full of sugar, 
some nutmeg and caraway seed. Mix this with one and a half cups 
full of sour milk, to which one tea-spoon full of saleratus has 
been added. Flour enough to roll out. They should not be 
kneaded. ' Mrs. Kelsey. 

Cookies. 

Half pound of butter beaten to a cream, quarter of a pound of 
sugar mixed with it, the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs grated fine. 
Flavor with lemon, or to taste. Mix flour enough to roll the 
dough, not too stiff. Mrs. George. 



36 COOKIES. 



J. Jay Joslin, 

DRY GOODS 

lit o^mE,^^^ wMJEtmm'ww, 
384 AND 386 LAWRENCE ST., DENVER, COLO. 



One cup full of molasses ; let come to a boil. Then add two 
tea-spoons full of soda. When cool mix one cup full of butter, 
three-fourths cup full of sugar, two eg:gs well beaten together. 
Then add 5^our molasses and two table-spoons full of water, two 
table-spoons full of ginger, one tea-spoon full each of cinnamon, 
cloves and allspice. Add flour and bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. Abbott. 



One cup full of sweet milk, three eggs, one-half cup full of 
butter, one cup full of sugar, one tea-spoon full of baking pow- 
der, a litde cinnamon, flour until thick enough to roll out. 

Mrs. Kilpatrick. 

Mrs. Riuniple's Jum1)les. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, three-fourths pound 
of butter, whites of three eggs and one whole one. Flavor with 
rose water. The best 1 ever ate. Mrs. Howard. 



Dougliiiuts. 

One egg, two-thirds cup full of sugar, one cup full of sour 
milk, two table-spoons full of melted lard, one-half tea-spoon 
full of soda, a little salt and some spices. Mrs. Abbott. 



Coffee Cake. 



One cup full of cold coffee, one cup full of brown sugar, one , 
cup full of molasses, one scant cup full of butter, one egg, spice 
and fruit if you wish, one-half tea-spoon full of soda. 

Mrs. John Howard. 



COOICIES— PUDDINGS. 37 



A. H. WEBER. W. R. OWEN. 

WEBER OWEN & CO. 



{Successors to Weber. Hoiuland &• Co.,) 
DEALERS IN 



HATS, CAPS, FURS, 

STRAW AND BUCK GOODS, 

Wholesale. Rear of 382 Larimer Street, Retail, III Larimer Street, 

DENVER, COLORADO. 



Scotcli Cake. 

One pound of brown sugar, one pound of flour, one-half pound 
of butter, two eggs, cinnamon. Roll very thin to bake. 

IVIrs. Howard. 

Sand Tarts. 

Two pounds of brown sugar, two pounds of flour, one and 
one-fourth pounds of butter, three eggs. Roll very thin to bake. 

-Mrs. Howard. 



•-" FXJIDIDIIsrG-S. IB 




•o<>o. 

Cliocolate Pudding. 

One quart of milk, two ounces of grated vanilla chocolate, 
three table-spoons full of corn starch, two eggs, one-half cup full 
of pulverized sugar. Boil the milk, stir in the chocolate, starrh, 
sugar and beaten yolks of the eggs. Bake. When the pudding 
is cold beat the whites of the two eggs to a froth and stir in half 
a cup of pulverized sugar. Place this frosting on the pudding 
and serve. Emma V. Ratcliffe 



Spouse Pnddiug. 

Into one pint of hot milk stir two table-spoons full of flour, 
one table-spoon full of butter, three table-spoons full of sugar, 
six eggs, beaten well, flavor with lemon. Bake until brown. Put 
the dish containing pudding into one larger containing water. 
Eat cold with cream. Mrs. J. S. Dillon 



28 PUDDINGS. 



C. N. HART, M. D., 

DISEASES OF WOMEN, 

Residence, 508 Arapahoe. 



S.S.SMYTHE,M.D. 

SURGEON, 

Residence, 4r53 Curtis. 



HART & SMYTHE, 

KING BLOCK. 



Suet Piiddliig. 

One cup full of New Orleans molasses, one cup full of chopped 
suet, one cup full of cold water, four cups full of flour, one tea- 
spoon full of ginger, one-half tea-spoon full of allspice, one-half 
tea-spoon full of cinnamon, one-half tea-spoon full of cloves, one- 
half of a nutmeg, one cup full of currants, one cup full of raisins, 
pinch of salt, three tea-spoons full of baking powder. Steam 
three hours. 

Sauce. — One cup full of sugar, three-fourths cup full of butter. 
Stir to a cream. Add yolk of one egg and one cup full of boiling 
water. Beat white and put on top. Flavor with lemon or vanilla. 

Mrs. Abbott. 

Ijemon Pudding. 

Two cups of bread crumbs soaked in one quart of milk, yolks 
of four eggs, one lemon and rind, grated, and the juice, two 
spoons full of cream or butter. When baked have the whites 
well beaten with white sugar, and just brown. Eat cold. 

Mrs. Frank Jerome. 

Suet Pudding. Excellent. 

One cup full of chopped suet, one-half cup full of molasses, 
one cup full of raisins, one cup full of sour milk, one tea-spoon 
full of soda, four cups full of flour. Steam three hours. To be 
eaten with hot sauce. This will keep a week or more and is nice 
steamed over. Miss Armsby. 

Suet Pudding. 

One egg, one cup full of suet, one cup full of molasses. New 
Orleans, one cup full of sour milk or coflee, one tea-spoon full of 
soda, two cups lull of flour, one cup full of raisins, one cup full of 
currants. Mrs. D. B. Keeler. 



PUDDINGS. a9 



CHARLES WESTLEY, 

General Subscripfion Ag't/""i:^r Denver Colo. 

BOOKZS SOXjX) Oasr IlTST^«i.L3yEE3SrTS- 
Fine art publications of Casseli, Petter, Galpin & Co., London and New York; 
Dante's Inferno, Purgatory and Paradise, illustrated by M. Gustave Dore ; Milton's 
Paradise Lost ; Dore Bible Gallery; Egypt: Description, Historical and Picturesque, 
by Prof G. Ebers ; Cassell's Illustrated Shakespeare ; The Countries of the World ; 
The Life of Christ, by Rev. F. W. Farrar, D. D., F. R. S.; The Child's Life of Christ; 
The Early Days of Christianity; The Harmony of the Bible with Science. Any of the 
above books taken to your house for examination, at your request by postal card. 

Tapioca Piiclding. 

Six table-spoons full of tapioca soaked over night in two tea- 
cups full of cold water. In the morning beat the yolks of three 
eggs, put them into one quart of milk, add one heaping tea-cup 
full of sugar, and a little salt, also the tapioca. Boil this mixture 
like custard. When nearly cold, flavor with vanilla or lemon. 
Then bake it. After this add a frosting made from the whites of 
the eggs and one table-spoon full of sugar, and brown it in the 
oven. Very nice when cold. Mrs. E. V. Wells. 



Clieese Pnddiug. 

One pint of bread crumbs on the bottom of a pudding dish. 
Then add a sprinkle of grated cheese, a little butter in small 
pieces, a little salt and pepper. Alternate until the dish is full. 
Beat one egg lightly in a cup of sweet milk, pour over and bake 
fifteen minutes. Mrs. Howard. 



L<emoii Pudding. 



One pint of bread crumbs soaked in one quart of milk, the 
yolks of four eggs, beaten light with one tea-cup full of sugar, 
the rind of one lemon; all mixed and baked in a pan. Take the 
whites of the eggs, beat them very light with a little sugar, not as 
stiff as icing, adding the juice of the lemon ; put it on the top of 
the pudding and put in the stove until it is a light brown. 

Mrs. Howard. 

Snet Pudding. 

One cup full of molasses, one cup full of milk, three cups full 
of flour, one cup full of suet, chopped, two cups full of raisins and 
currants mixed, cloves and cinnamon to taste. Boil in pudding 
bag. Mrs. Frank Jerome 



30 DBSSC^RTS. 



TRYNER, 

Denver 



Fine Diamonds, Watches and Jewelry. 



— . — . — . — __ — .^^^i 




Lemon Ice. 



One pint of rich lemonade with a Httle grated rind of a lemon 
in it. It must be very sweet as it looses much in freezing. Add 
the whites of three eggs, cut to a stiff froth. Freeze like ice 
cream. Mrs. Spining. 



Clxarlotte-Riisse. 



One pint of cream and whites of six eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth separately, one-fourth ounce gelatine soaked in a gill of 
milk set on back of stove to dissolve. Mi.\ cream and eggs, 
sweeten and flavor, and stir in gelatine when cool. Place on 
sponge cake and set away to get firm, Mrs. D. B. Keeler. 



Chocolate Dessert. 



One quart of milk, three bars of sweet chocolate ; place in 
warm place to melt. One cup full of sugar, one-fourth box full of 
gelatine, stir all into milk and boil. Let cool and serve with 
whipped cream. Mrs, Spining. 



DESSERTS. 31 



Old Trunks taken in Exchange for New Ones. 

MANUFACTURER AND DEALER IN 

TRUNKS # VALISES. 

Near Corner Lja-^vreuce and Sixteentli Streets, 

BASEMENT. DENVER, COLO. 

REPAIRING OF TRUNKS A SPECIALTY. 



Blauc Mange. 

Flavor and sweeten one quart of cream. Whip it to a stiff 
froth. After soaking an ounce of gelatine in one pint of cold 
water one-half hour let it simmer gently on the fire until dis- 
solved. When luke warm pour cream in, beating all the time. 
Beat until stift^ enough to drop from the spoon. 

Mrs. W. F. Thompson. 



Chocolate Blauc Mange. 



One quart of milk, one ounce of gelatine, three eggs, four 
heaping table-spoons full of grated chocolate, three-fourths cup 
full of sugar, one table-spoon full of vanilla. Soak the gelatine 
one hour in a cup of the milk. ' Heat the remainder of the milk 
to boiling. Add the gelatine. When dissolved' remove from the 
fire and pour a little at a time on the yoiks of the eggs and sugar 
smoothly stirred together with the .chocolate rubbed in with a 
little milk. Return all to the kettle and when nearly boiling take 
oft' and beat carefully into the beaten whites. Flavor and pour 
into moulds which have been dipped in cold water. 

Mrs. Abbott. 



Spanisli Cream. 



One package of gelatine soaked in three pints of milk. Put' 
on to boil and stir until gelatine melts. When scalding hot beat 
yolks of four eggs and five table-spoons full of powdered sugar 
together very light and stir in. Flavor to taste. Beat the whites 
ofeggs very stiff, stir in while on the stove and take the mixture 
off immediately. Pour in a mould and put in a cool place. 

Mrs. R. Holme. 



33 DESSERTS— PIES. 



Fill blank space with your own recipe. 



Spanisli Cream. 

One quart of sweet milk, one-half box of gelatine dissolved 
in milk, yolks of six eggs and six table-spoons full of sugar beat 
light, stir in while boiling. Beat whites of eggs and stir into 
when cooked. Put on ice to stiffen. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Spining. 

Tapioca Cream. 

Soak three table-spoons full of Tapioca in water over night, 
yolks of three eggs, one cup full of sugar, one quart of milk. 
Put tapioca in the milk and boil until dissolved, then stir in yolks 
of eggs and sugar. Flavor it. Put in a dish, beat whites to a 
froth, sweeten a little, flavor, spread on top and brown. To be 
eaten cold. _ Mrs. Abbott. 

Com Stai'cli Cream. 

One quart of milk, three eggs, two table-spoons full of corn 
starch, flavor and sweeten to taste. Boil until thick as jelly. 
Save whites of two eggs for frosting to put over the top. Plit in 
the oven and brown. To be eaten cold. Mrs. Abbott. 




I<emon Pie. Without Eggs. 

One cup full of sugar, one-half cup full of water, one spoon 
full of flour, one large lemon. Mix flour and water together and 
boil. Sash crust. Mrs. W. F. Thompson. 



PIES. 33 



KENT & STUCHFIELD, 

— dealkr:. in - 

Stoves, Hardware and House FurpisljiDg Soods, 

An Elegant Line of rroods at very Low Prices. 

State Agents for the Golden Star OiT Stove, 

THE BEST IN THE MARKET. 

4.S2 LARIMER STREET, - - DENVER, COLORADO. 

Mlmce Pie. 

Two cups full of cold lean boiled meat, chopped fine, five cups 
full of apples, chopped, one cup full of suet, chopped, one and a 
half cups full of raisins, one cup full of currants, two and one-half 
cups full of sugar, two tea-spoons full of ground cloves, five tea- 
spoons full of cinnamon, two tea-spoons full of salt, one quart of 
cider, one-half cup full of vinegar, one-half quart of good molas- 
ses. Mix well and add juice of one lemon. Cook twenty min- 
utes before putting in crock. Add more cider if desired. 

Mrs. M. H. Moore. 

Cocoanut Pie. 

One-half pint of milk, two eggs. Pour boiling water on one- 
half tea-cup full of cocoanut and let it stand for one-half hour. 
Then add it and sweeten to taste. Mrs. Abbott 



Cliarlotte's Lieniou Pie. 

Take one table-spoon full of corn starch, and wet it in a little 
cold water. Add a little salt, and pour on it a tea-cup full of boil- 
ing water, and let it cool. Take tiie juice and rind of one lemon, 
one tea-cup full of sugar, and the beaten yolks of two eggs, stir 
the whole, starch and all, well together. Put on an undercrust 
and bake. When baked, add frosting made of the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Add to this last a little lemon juice 
and sugar. Brown. Mhs. Wells^ 



34 CAsrmss. 

Fill blank space with your own recipe. 






Peanut Candy. 

Two and one-half tea-cups full of New Orleans molasses, two 
tea-cups full of sugar, a small cup full of water, butter the size of 
an egg. Boil until it will harden when dropped in water. Add 
one and one-half tea-spoons full of soda while on the stove, and 
three quarts of peanuts, halved. Turn out on buttered tin. 
This makes a large quantity. Miss Armsby. 



Kisses. 

One pound of powdered sugar, whites of five eggs, twelve 
drops of lemon or almond. Beat eggs to a froth. Add sugar 
gradually. Add essence. Beat the whole very hard. Lay a 
buttered sheet of paper on a tin pan, drop a little of sugar and 
egg, bake in a cool oven until a delicate brown. Place two 
together with egg, until they stick. Mrs. D. B. Keeler. 



Caramels. 



One-half pound of baker's chocolate, two and one-half pounds 
of brown sugar, one large cup of milk, one-fourth pound of but- 
ter, flavor with vanilla or almond. Boil hard twenty minutes. 
Cool on buttered plates, Mrs. Keeler. 



CANDIBS. 35 

C. A. ROBERTS & CO., 

(]!arry a complete liiu- of 

•^Jlouse Furnishing 6oods and Table (3utleryi<- 

Refrigerators, Ice Cream Freezers, Adams & Westlake Oil Stoves. 

If you want first tiuality of goods at low prices, call at 

416 Larimer St., DENVER, COLO. 

Liemoii Caiuly. 

Two cups full of white sugar, half a cup full of vinegar, one 
cup full of water. Boil seven minutes, without stirring. Flavor 
with lemon and pour on buttered tin. Miss Armsbv. 



Chocolate Creams, 



Two cups full of granulated sugar, one-half cup full of water, 
flavor with vanilla and boil five minutes. Take out of doors and 
stir until it hardens. Roll into small balls and dip into melted 
c•hocolatc^ Miss Armsbv. 



^nDZDiTionsrA-iL.. 

Boiliitg Ham. 

In the morning wipe it oft ; if there are any rusty or discolored 
spots, scrape them oft". The ham should be boiled very slowly ; 
on this depends the sweetness and ftakiness of the lean ham. 
Some whole cloves and a bouquet of herbs may be added to the 
boiling water with good effect. When the ham is done, set the 
kettle oft" the fire, and let the ham remain in the water until it is 
cold. It will absorb a great deal of the juices that have boiled 
out. Then lay it in a large dripping pan, and spread a mixture, 
made after the following directions, over the ham : Take hall a 
cup full of brown sugar, a tea-spoon full of browned flour ; moisten 
it with a little sweet cream. Then set the pan in the oven and let 
the ham brown. When cold, cut it in very thin slices, and the fla- 
vor will be delicious. Mrs. Havs, 



-36- 

Fill blank sparr with your own recipe. 



—37— 



ROBERT S, ROESCHLAUB 




ROOMS 34, 36 & 38 KING BLOCK, 

©) Established 1873. 



-38- 

blank space with your own recipe. 



39- 



C. ^W. LITTLE, 





^-3 







o 

s: 




4^ 
O 
OO 

r 



O 


CD 



DENVER,^OLORADO. 



— 40— 

Fill blank space with your own recipe. 



SHOPPING GUIDE. 



Architect R. S. Roesclilaub King Block 

Ijakery — J. E. Bussey -- 587 Champa 

Books Chain & Hardy 414 Larimer 

Book Agency Cliarles VVestley Inter-Ocean Hotel 

Jk)ok Printers Collier & Cleaveland 3S6 Holladay 

Clothintr Skinner Bros. & Wright --i6lh & Lawrence 

Carriages Robertson Carriage Co 379 Arapahoe 

Confectionery —E. A. Tiinnell & Co 370 Curtis 

Dentistry C.N Guyer King Block 

Dentistry Sniedley & Beals Skinner Block 

Dressmaking Madame Keith 471 Champa 

Drugs W. A. Hover & Co i6th and Curtis 

Dry Goods J. Jay Joslin 384 Lawrence 

Engraving J. M. Bagley Opera House 

Eurniture Kilpatrick & Brown 410 Lawrence 

Groceries Robt. Marquis & Co .-,-i6th and Stout 

Hats and Eurs Weber, Owen & Co 382 Larimer 

House Eurnishing C A. Roberts 416 Larimer 

Insurance, &c Chamberlin, Mills & Packard--28o Eifteenth 

Jewelry C. W. Little 408 Lawrence 

Jewelry Tryner -Tabor Block 

i^awyers Rogers & McCord 283 Eifteenth 

Lumber W. E. Thompson - 196 Sixteenth 

Metal Works Day & Diercks 290 Seventeenth 

Paints and Wall Paper B. L. James 373 Arapahoe 

Printers' Supplies 1. P. Spiniiig 369 Holladay 

Photographs J. Collier 4^5 ^^ Larimer 

Physicians Hart & Smythe Ring Block 

Plumbing Jolmson & Co 299 P^ifteenth 

Real Estate P^letcher & Burchard 345 Sixteenth 

Shoes Niesz & Co 286 Eifteenth 

Stoves Kent & Colver -- 452 Larimer 

Taik)rs John Sinclair & Co 384 Larimer 

Trunks _-. A. M. Meek 16th and Lawrence 



H. P.. Chambeulin. E. S. Mi 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 

CHAMBERLIN, MIL ,,,,,^,^. . 





^INSURANCE IN ALL ITS BRANCHES^ 

FIRE, 
LIFE, 

ACCIDENT, 
PLATE GLASS. 
FIDELITY. 



REAL ESTATE i LOANS. 



CAPITOL HILL PROPERTY A SPECIALTY. 



E.states managed and rents collected on reasonable terms. 



280 Fifteenth Street, 



