Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



\ 



60007681 4W 



LONDON : PRINTED BY 

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE 

AND PARLIAMENT STREET 



A FEW 



COLLECTED BY 

LADY SARAH LINDSAY 




RICHARD BENTLEY & SON, NEW BURLINGTON STREET 
lobUi^tn in SiliiDaTjt to Hci gtajiiti) t^t ^nitn 



5c.? 



PREFACE. 



Having collected, by permission, th^se 
Recipes from manuscript books of my family 
and friends (several given by epicures well 
known in former days), I can vouch for their 
being authentic. I have added one or two from 

* Queen Anne's Royal Cookery Book,' which 
are quaint, and a few very excellent ones from 

* Mrs. Hale's Recipes,' published in Philadelphia ; 
also some entitled 'Eastern Cookery,* given 
by a lady. If my little work proves successful 



VI 



in aiding the charity to which I intend to 
give the proceeds, I may feel encouraged 
to publish a collection of useful recipes of 
various kinds — some of them given to me 
in Canada a few years ago, which, from 
my own experience, I have found really valu- 
able. 




January 1 883. 



CHOICE RECIPES. 



For making Cocoa from the Nibs. 

(HON. MRS. ELIOT YORKE, SEN.) 

Put four tablespoonfuls of the cocoa nibs 
into a stewpan of cold water (about a quart), 
and an egg-shell ; let them simmer very gently 
for four hours. Then pass through a hair 
sieve into a separate basin. Put the nibs back 
into the stewpan with a quart more cold water, 
and let them simmer gently for three hours ; 
then strain through the sieve, as before, to 

B 



the first quantity. Next morning let the cocoa 
boil gently for two hours before sending it up. 

Be very particular to put the nibs into cold 
water, and let them simmer, not boil : boiling 
quickly, even five minutes, makes the colour 
brown, and extracts the bitter flavour of the 
nibs. 




To make Chocolate. 

(MRS. COSTELLO, OF CADIZ.) 

The best chocolate is not sweet, being made 
entirely of cocoa : it is to inferior kinds that 
much sugar is put i oz. or small square 
of a cake is used to a small coffee-cup of water 
or milk, and should be very well mixed. 



B 2 



To make Coffee. 

(lady inglefield.) 

For four or five persons, put i lb. of coffee 
into a kitchen earthenware bowl, break a raw 
cjj({ into it, and then pour some boiling water 
over. Ix't it stand by the fire, pour it through 
a piece of muslin, and it will be beautifully 
clear. When there is less coffee you will not 
require a whole egg. Send up in a silver 
coffee-pot or china one, quite hot. 



,♦ • 



^ 



5 



Groseilles de Bar (Bar-le-Duc). 

An Excellent Preserve, 
(lady STUART DE ROTHESAY.) 

Take the finest currants you can procure, 
take out the seeds with a pen or quill, weigh 
the fruit, and to every pound of fruit allow 
1 1 lb. of fine sugar ; clarify it, and boil it to the 
crack. Put in your currants while boiling, and 
boil them for five minutes ; take them off, let 
them stand five minutes, skim, put them on 
again, and do this twice more. Then put them 
into a shallow dish, and let them stand until 
the next day. Then with a pierced spoon take 
out the currants and put them into well-dried 



•'1 



pots ; boil up the syrup, and pour it boiling hot 
on the currants. Do not fill the pots quite full, 
and reserve some of the syrup to fill up the 
pots when cold : without this precaution they 
will not keep. Do not tie them down for two 
or three days. 



Orange Marmalade. 

(MRS. HAMILTON HAMILTON. 
AS MADE AT HAMILTON PALACK 1 838.) 

Put on 25 or 50 oranges to boil ; let them 
boil till they can be pierced with a skewer, 
then take them out and cut them, taking out 
all the seeds and inner skins and fibres. To 
every pound of oranges put 2 lbs. of sugar and 
I pint of water ; boil for more than an hour, or 
as much longer as may be necessary to reduce 
to a proper consistency for keeping. 

The oranges must be picked ones. March 
is the best time to make the marmalade. 



i 



8 

The oranges should be boiled early in the 
morning, so that the marmalade may be finished 
and potted by night ; they should be covered 
in a few days, and the paper should be covered 
with white of egg, not brandy. 



To preserve Melon. 

(MRS. WATTS, HOUSEKEEPER TO ELIZABETH, COUNTESS 
OF HARDWICKE. WIMPOLE. 1825.) 

Cut and pare a thoroughly ripe melon into 
thick slices. Put them into water, and let them 
remain some days ; then put the slices into fresh 
water, and set them over the fire to coddle (but 
not boil, for that would spoil them). Make a 
good syrup, and when properly skimmed and 
boiled put your melon in until it is cold. The 
last time the syrup is boiled put it into a muslin 
bag, and i oz. of ginger, which is to be left with 
the melon and the juice of 2 lemons, with a little 
lemon peel. If a large melon, add more ginger 
and more lemon peel. 



( 



lO 



Orange-flower Syrup, 

(lady STUART DE ROTHESAY. 
BRITISH EMBASSY, PARIS. 183O.) 

Make a good syrup (the same as for other 
things) ; when almost boiled enough add orange 
flowers in the proportion of one-third of the 
quantity of sugar. Give it a good boil ; take it 
off" the fire, and let it settle, then put it on 
again. Do so three times ; take out the flowers 
entirely, leave the syrup in the pan till nearly 
cold, and then bottle it. 



II 



Sugared Currants. 

(countess dowager of verulam.) 

Take the white of i egg ; beat it as for 
whipped eggs, put it into ^ pint of cold water, 
strain it, and have ready some double-refined 
sugar made quite hot in a pan. Dip the 
currants in the water, then in the sugar ; put 
them in a sieve to dry ; then dish them up. 



i 



12 



Orange Jelly. 

(late HON. MRS. HUGH LINDSAY.) 

To every pound of Seville oranges put 2 
pints of water. Cut the oranges in pieces, picking 
out the seeds. Let them boil slowly till quite 
tender, and strain through a jelly bag ; and to 
every pint add i lb. of sugar, and boil it for at 
least twenty minutes, A lemon or two cut up 
with the orange will add much to the flavour of 
the jelly. 



13 



To preserve Strawberries whole, 

(methley park. 1840.) 

Make choice of the large scarlet, or any 
other fine ones. They must not be too ripe. 
To every pound of fruit put | lb. of pounded 
sugar. Spread the strawberries on a dish, and 
put rather more than half the pounded sugar 
over them, shaking the dish as you do it, that 
the under strawberries may equally get the 
sugar ; and instead of water add i lb. of red 
currant juice. Simmer the strawberries until 
sufficiently jellied. 



I 



14 



Mountain Ash Berry Jelly. 

(scotch recipe.) 

Gather the berries in September, when they 
are of a fine red and juicy. To 2 quarts of 
berries put 3 quarts of water. Boil them till one- 
half of the water is boiled away. To each pint 
of juice add i lb. of loaf sugar, well broken ; 
when it comes to a boil take off any scum that 
rises ; let it boil half an hour ; fill small cups 
with it, and do not put paper over it for two or 
three days. (This jelly may be used for venison : 
the bitter of the ash berry is much approved.) 



IS 



Chocolate Cream. 

(iJ^DY ARTHUR HALL.) 

Boil I pint of milk, and add i oz. of cake of 
chocolate grated. When boiling add a three- 
penny packet of gelatine, soaked in a little milk ; 
when cool add yolks of 2 eggs well beaten. Stir 
occasionally till it thickens, which it will not do 
until quite cold ; then pour into a mould. 



\ 



i6 



The Old Llanover Lemon Cream. 

(original recipk lady llanover. 1882.) 

I quart of new milk or cream, juice of 2 
lemons, J lb. of sugar, rind of i lemon grated 
fine. Whip it well, take off the froth by degrees, 
and lay it on a hair sieve. It must stand in a 
cool place till next day. More than half fill the 
glasses with the thin part ; heap up the froth 
above the glass. It will keep at least two or 
three days. 



17 



Biscuit Glac^. 

(MISS GAPE, MANOR, ST. ALBANS.) 

Bruise about half a stick of vanille, and put 
it on the fire with ^ pint of good cream. Let it 
boil, then take it off, and when about milk-warm 
add the yolk of an egg, and whisk it until cold. 
Have ready some sponge cakes or biscuits 
crumbled fine and quite dry. Mix it with the 
custard pretty thick, and then put it into small 
paper cases ; sprinkle some dry crumbs over 
the top, then put them into an ice case, and 
cover them over with ice and salt. Let them 
remain three hours, and then they will be 
ready for the table. 



h 



i8 



Filbert Ice Cream. 

(new YORK RECIPE.) 

To I quart of cream add i lb. of nuts, 1 2 oz. 
of sugar, or i pint of syrup. Break the nuts 
and roast the kernels in the oven ; when done, 
pound them with a little cream and make a 
custard ; then mix, and finish by freezing. 



19 



Orange Cream. 

(from a recipe dated 1768.) 

Take 4 oranges, and grate the peel into a 
pint of water ; then squeeze the juice in also ; 
beat the yolks of 4 eggs and put them into the 
water ; sweeten it to your taste with double- 
refined sugar ; strain it and set it on the fire, stir 
all one way till it is as thick as cream, and put 
it into your glasses or mould. 



c 2 



I 



20 






Custard Cream. 






For Six Persons, 






(HON. MISS FERRIS, BATH.) 






8 yolks of eggs and 4 whites, a 


glass 


of 


sherry, and a tablespoonful of sugar. 


Whip 


up 


the eggs with the sugar and sherry; 


pour 


y\ 


pint of boiled milk over it ; then 


cover 


a 


mould with burnt sugar, put it in a 


pan with 


a little water, and then into the oven. 


« 





21 



Russian Cream. 

(lady inglefield.) 

Beat to a very stiff froth the whites of 2 
eggs ; add nearly i lb. of powdered sugar, and a 
little lemon juice. Lay this mixture on paper 
in hollow circles ; bake or dry it in a warm and 
slow oven ; when done, beat up nearly i pint of 
thick cream, flavoured with vanille and sugar to 
taste, and fill the circles with it. 



22 



Chocolate Pudding. 

(lady inglefield.) 

Boil I oz. of isinglass in i quart of milk 
and 6d. worth of cream ; add sugar according 
to taste ; scrape \ lb. of vanille chocolate quite 
fine, divide the liquid, and boil the chocolate in 
the remaining half. When quite smooth strain 
and put it in a mould ; put it on ice ; when set, 
add white liquid, which flavour with vanille ; 
add whipped cream for sauce. 



23 



Caramel Cream. 

(lady inglefield.) 

Take a plain mould ; put in a handful of 
pounded sugar ; burn the sugar with a poker 
till lightly glazed ; put it to cool. Make a 
custard with 8 eggs, i pint of cream, and rind 
of I lemon ; sweeten to taste ; flavour with a 
little brandy. Put all in the mould in a stew- 
pan, and place it on the side of the stove till 
set, then let it cool. 



I 



24 



Wafers and Cream. 

(miss gape, manor, ST. ALBANS.) 

Fix round a side dish some glazed wafers, 
so as to form a wall ; fasten them to the dish 
and to each other with a little burnt sugar, 
taking care not to let the sugar appear outside 
the wall of wafers. Fill the inside with pulped 
fruit or marmalade, and cover the top with 
whipped cream, which should be thick like 
Italian cheese. Do not let the cream cover the 
tops of the wafers, as it would make them 
soft and destroy the neatness of the dish. 



25 



Iced Custard with Fruit. 
(brickhill manor.) 

One pint of boiling cream (flavoured with 
any liqueur to your taste) ; add it when 
boiling to the yolks of 12 eggs well beaten and 
strained ; add likewise ^ oz. of isinglass dis- 
solved and clarified ; whisk it until nearly cold. 
Have ready a mould masked with preserved 
fruits ; set the mould in ice, and pour some of 
the custard in it about three inches high ; then 
throw in the trimmings of the fruit, chopped 
very fine. When set, add more custard, con- 
tinuing to do so until the mould is full ; let it 
stand in ice at least five hours before wanted. 



26 



Compote of Chestnuts. 

(lady inglefield.) 

Scald about 20 chestnuts, and peel them 
while hot ; boil ^ lb. of loaf sugar to a thick 
syrup ; put the chestnuts into the syrup and 
boil till quite soft, keeping them well stirred. 
Add two tablespoonfuls of brandy, and vanille 
to taste. Then pass them through a wire 
sieve, and dry them in front of the fire till crisp. 
Have ready a good thick whip of cream ; put a 
layer of cream, then a layer of chestnuts ; build 
up neatly. Garnish with preserved orange or 
other preserve to taste. 



27 



Tea Cream. 

(old recipe.) 

Boil i^ pint of cream with i^ oz. of green 
tea and a little sugar. When boiled, rub 
thoroughly through a sieve ; add 2 oz. of 
melted isinglass. Put into a mould, and place 
it in ice. 



28 



Devonshire Cream. 

(late lady adolphus dalrymple.) 

A small tin milk-pan containing 3 pints 
of milk to stand twenty-four hours ; then put 
the pan on a stove till quite hot, but not boiling. 
When the cream wreathes over the top it is 
done enough. Take it off and let it stand for 
twelve hours ; then skim off the cream and send 
it to table. 



29 



Directions for Clotted Cream. 

(given to ANNE, COUNTESS OF MEXBOROUGH. 1848.) 

Put ID or 12 quarts of new milk into a 
broad, shallow pan (either of earthenware, iron, 
or brass well tinned). In summer let it stand 
eight hours, in winter twenty-four hours, to 
allow the cream to rise to the surface. Then 
place it over a small clear fire of wood or 
charcoal, and allow it to remain until scalding 
hot, but on no account to boil. This generally 
occupies an hour. It should be allowed to 
stand twelve hours in summer, and twenty-four 
hours in winter, and may then be used. 



i 



30 



Method of increasing the Quantity 

of Cream. 

(methley dairy. 1843.) 

Put two pans in boiling water ; take out the 
hot pans, put the milk into one of them and 
cover it with the other. This will occasion, in 
the usual time, a great augmentation of thick- 
ness and quantity of cream. 



31 



To make a Gooseberry Fool the best way. 

(queen anne's royal cookery book.) 

Take a quart of gooseberries and scald them 
tender, and drain them well from the water 
through a cullender, and with the back of a 
spoon force all the best part of them through 
the cullender ; and then take a quart or 3 
pints of new cream, and also 6 eggs, yolks 
and whites, and add them to the cream ; some 
rose water and sugar, and sweeten according to 
your palate. Set all on a gentle fire, and stir it 
till you see it of a good thickness. Then take 
it off and cool it a little, put it into white 
earthen cream bowls, and when it is cold serve 
it to the table. 



I 



32 



To make German or Imperial Yeast. 

(late lady dalrymple.) 

To 4^ lbs. of malt add ijoz. of hops. Put 
the malt into an earthen jar, and pour i 
gallon of boiling water upon it ; let it stand 
three hours, then pass the liquor through 
a sieve, squeezing the malt very dry ; put the 
malt back again into the jar, and pour another 
gallon of boiling water upon it, letting it stand 
three hours as before. Boil the hops in 2 
quarts of water for one hour, until reduced to 
I quart ; then pass through a sieve into the 
liquor which came off the malt the first time ; 
the liquor must be put on boiling hot from 
the hops. 



33 

When the liquor put on the malt for the 
last time has stood three hours, then strain 
it altogether into one vessel, and put i pint 
of imperial barm into it. Have some clean 
bottles dry and ready, and bottle it directly, 
tying down the corks to prevent its flying. It 
will be ready for use in twenty-four hours, and 
if put into a cool place, it will keep good for 
six weeks. In making the imperial yeast the 
first time, you must of course get a pint of very 
good barm, not bitter, but afterwards you will 
always have a pint of your own that is good 
and not bitter, as this imperial yeast is never 
bitter unless it is carelessly made or drawn off 
too near the bottom of the hops. 



D 



34 



To make Bread with this Yeast 

To 3 stone of seconds flour put a bare 
pint of yeast — more would spoil it. Lay the 
bread at nine o'clock at night, and make it 
up at seven in the morning. It must be in 
the oven three hours after. The water it is 
made with must be rather warmer than when 
common yeast is used, but not so hot as to 
scald the flour. It must stand ten hours in 
the sponge, and three hours after kneading, 
making thirteen hours altogether. It requires 
nothing but attention to the foregoing recipe 
to succeed perfectly. An old woman in a 
remote country parish made the yeast for years 
with the greatest success, and all her neigh- 
bours made their bread with it. 



35 



Rolls or Breakfast Cakes. 

(HON. MISS JERVIS, BATH.) 

Warm i oz. of butter in a pint of new milk ; 
add 2 spoonfuls of small beer yeast, and the yolk 
of I or 2 eggs well beaten and mixed with 2 lbs. 
of flour. It should rise before the fire one hour ; 
then make it into rolls or breakfast cakes. 
Twenty minutes will bake them in an oven by 
the fire, and fifteen minutes in a bread oven. 
They make good buns by adding a little sugar 
and a few currants ; some use more butter, but 
4 ozs. would be too much. 



D 2 



\ 



36 



Richmond Saffron Buns. 

(lady verb BERTIE. 1768.) 

2 lbs. of flour, ^ lb. of butter, J lb. of moist 
sugar ; rub them well together ; take 2 spoon- 
fuls of yeast, and set to rise with a little warm 
milk for half an hour. Take J oz. of saffron 
cut as small as possible ; put it in the rest 
of your milk, beat them up warm, and allow 
them one hour to rise before baking. Bake in 
a quick oven. 



37 



Queen Anne's French Bread. 

(queen anne's royal cookery book.) 



To 2 quarts of fine flour, and J pint of ale 
yeast, ij pint of new milk warmed. Put the 
yeast into the milk and half a spoonful of salt, 
and stir it together, and strain it through a hair 
sieve into the flour, and make it into a little 
paste not kneaded, but work it gently with 
your hand ; then warm a linen or woollen cloth 
very hot, and lay upon your paste, and set it to 
warm by the fire to rise for half an hour ; then 
work it up lightly with your hand again, and 
have some wooden dishes warmed, and pinch 
off little pieces as big as a turkey's egg ; flour 



38 

your dishes, and put into every dish a piece of 
it, and cover it down warm, and let it stand by 
the fire a quarter of an hour ; then half an hour 
bakes it in a pretty quick oven : while it is hot 
chip it. 



39 



Bread Cake. 

(lady tweedmouth.) 

I lb. of flour, J lb. of butter, J lb. of sugar, 
2 eggs> 6 ozs. of sultanas, i oz. of German 
yeast, and ^ pint of milk. Make a sponge with 
half the flour, ^ pint of milk, and i oz. of 
German yeast. Let it rise for twenty minutes ; 
then break the 2 eggs into the sponge and add 
the butter. Beat it all up and work in the 
rest of the flour, the sugar, and sultanas. Fill 
your moulds with the mixture, and let it rise 
again for twenty minutes ; then bake for three- 
quarters of an hour in a sharp oven. This 
quantity will make two good-sized luncheon 
cakes. 



40 



To make a good Cake, 

* As Sir K, D.^s Housekeeper made for hitnJ' 

(queen anne's royal cookery book.) 

Take 4 quarts of fine flour, 2^ lbs. of butter, 
I lb. of sugar, i lb. of almonds finely beaten, 
i pint of sack, i pint of good ale yeast, I pint 
of boiling cream, 12 yolks, 4 whites of eggs, and 
4 lbs. of currants. When you have wrought 
all these into a fine paste, let it be kept warm 
by the fire half an hour before you set it in the 
oven. If you please, you may put into it 2 lbs. 
of raisins of the sun, stoned and quartered. 



1 



41 



The Ice for the Cake. 

(queen anne's royal cookery book.) 

Take the whites of 3 new-laid eggs, and 
I lb. of best sugar finely beaten with the whites 
of the eggs, and ice the cake. Let your oven 
be of a temperate heat, and let your cake stand 
therein two hours and a half before you ice it, 
and afterwards only to harden the ice. 



42 



Lord Bolingbroke's Recipe for Ginger- 
bread Nuts. 

(HON. MISS JERVIS, BATH.) 

I lb. of flour and J lb. of butter. Mix 
well together. Then add ^ lb. of sugar, J lb. 
of treacle, 2 ozs. of ginger, some cloves, and 
a wineglass of sweet wine ; make it up either 
in thin cakes or nuts. The ginger must be 
weighed before it is pounded, and the ginger- 
bread kept very dry. Half a citron cut in 
small pieces may be added. To be baked in a 
slow oven, and not hard. 



43 



Rusks. 

(HON. MISS JERVIS, BATH.) 

I pint of new milk, 4 ozs. of sugar, 2 eggs, 
S ozs. of butter, i lb. of line flour, and i table- 
spoonful of yeast. Mix altogether for the 
sponge; let it stand half an hour in a warm 
place. Take i lb. 2 ozs. of flour and make into 
dough, which must stand an hour to rise. Make 
into little rolls. Bake twenty minutes in a hot 
oven, and when cold cut into slices and bake 
in the same way again. The rusks are excel- 
lent either with or without sugar for tea or 
dessert. 



I 



44 



Thin Biscuits. 

Excellent, 

(meneworth castle.) 

I lb. of flour, 2 ozs. of butter. Mix with 
a large jug of warm milk ; beat it with a 
rolling pin, and roll it out as thin as possible ; 
prick it and cut it out with a large saucer ; bake 
in a quick oven for two or three minutes. 



45 



Brown Bread Biscuits. 

(viscountess FALMOUTH.) 

I lb. of brown flour, J lb. of butter, ^ oz. of 
baking powder, and i pint of milk. 



( 



46 



Saffron Cake. 

(meneworth castle.) 

4 lbs. flour, J lb. sultanas, | lb. butter, J lb. 
lard, 2 ozs. sugar, i oz. lemon peel candied, a 
pinch of saffron soaked in milk or water, half a 
tea-cup of yeast. It must be wetted with milk 
or buttermilk, and covered with a cloth, before 
baking, till it rises. 



47 



Baba. 

(lady STUART DE ROTHESAY. 
BRITISH EMBASSY, PARIS. 1830.) 

To I oz. of flour add ^ lb. of stoned raisins, 
I lb. of butter, i oz. of sugar, 9 drops of saffron 
water, 6 eggs well beaten up, and a small quan- 
tity of salt. Take ^ lb. of flour and mix it with 
a tablespoonful of yeast and a little warm water. 
Put it to rise, then take the remainder of the 
flour, making a round hole in it, and add the 
rest of the ingredients. The butter must be 
squeezed to a cream before it is mixed with the 
leaven ; then mix all well together, and put it 
into a well-buttered mould. It must stand 
some time to rise in this before it is put into the 
oven to bake. 



< 



48 



Sponge Cake. 

(miss gape, manor, ST. ALBANS.) 

Take the weight of 4 eggs, in their shells, in 
sugar, and half the weight in flour. Put the 
flour before the fire for twenty minutes, during 
which time, after breaking 4 eggs into the sugar, 
beat them up with a whisk ; shake the flour in, 
still stirring with a whisk ; put immediately into 
a slow oven, and bake half an hour. 



49 



Excellent small Cakes, 
which are much esteemed at Court. 

< The King himself hath eat of them. * 

(queen anne's royal cookery book.) 

Take 3 lbs. of very, fine flour, i^ lb. of 
butter, and as much currants, and same of sugar ; 
7 ^ggs (one-half of the whites taken out), and 
knead all well together into a paste ; a little 
nutmeg grated, and a little rose water ; so make 
them up about the thickness of your hand, and 
bake them upon a plate of tin. 



E 



so 



Apples k la Frangipane. 

(FRENCH RECIPE.) 

Let a pint of milk or cream, with lemon peel 
and a little cinnamon, simmer for half an hour. 
Put in another stewpan about 3 spoonfuls of 
fine flour and the milk, work it well over the 
fire. When nearly cold, add 3 or 4 whole eggs ; 
set by till cold. Have a dish well buttered, into 
which slice some apples. Put a small quantity 
of butter over them, then cover with apricot 
jam and the cream, a layer of each until the 
dish is full ; the cream must be made rather 
sweet. Bake in a slow oven about three- 
quarters of an hour. 



SI 



Plain German Pudding. 

(lady ARTHUR HILL, DARMSTADT.) 

To I lb. of flour and ^ lb. of butter add 
3 eggs, I lb. of sugar, a little salt, and i table- 
spoonful of yeast. Make it into a thick paste 
with milk ; beat it for three-quarters of an hour, 
and then put it into a * shape,' which must be only 
half filled. Set it near the fire till it has risen 
to the top of the shape, and then bake it a light 
brown. 



E 2 



< 



52 



Petits Souffles k la Fran9aise. 

(late lord MONTAGU, DOUGLAS CASTLE.) 

Separate the yolks from the whites of 6 new- 
laid eggs ; put the whites into a clean pan or 
whipping bowl, and the yolks into a stewpan, 
to which add the juice of i lemon, the rind of 
2 finely grated, J lb. of fresh butter, and 3 ozs. 
of powdered sugar. Place the stewpan on the 
stove, and continue stirring the mixture until it 
thickens ; during this operation a second person 
should have whisked the whites till quite firm, 
which must then be added to the mixture in the 
stewpan ; you will have previously lined twelve 



S3 

tartlet pans. Fill with the souffle mixture. Bake 
in a moderate oven about twenty minutes. The 
mixture must not be prepared many minutes 
before boiling. 



< 



54 



German or Chigwell Pyddings. 

(commended by MR. BENJAMIN COUSENS.) 

^ lb. of sugar, ^ lb. of flour, ^ pint of cream, 
^ lb. of butter, and 3 eggs. The butter is to be 
melted in the cream, and the mixture to be 
baked twenty minutes in a quick oven in small 
cups or moulds. 



55 



Welsh Amber Pudding. 

(late lady DAVY.) 

To 6 ozs. of butter, melted over a slow fire, 
stir in 6 ozs. of finely powdered sugar, and after 
it is just boiled take it off, and in a few 
minutes stir in the yolks of 6 eggs, which 
have been well beaten. When cold, put it into 
a dish lined with paste, adding a little orange 
or lemon peel, and some ratafia. Let it be 
taken out of the oven a quarter of an hour 
before it is sent to table. 



i 



56 



The Bakewell Pudding. 

(MRS. JOHNES KNIGHT. WELWYN. 1 839.) 

Take the yolks of 8 eggs and the whites 
of 3 ; beat them up with ^ lb. of melted 
butter and ^ lb. of fine sugar (a little orange- 
flower water is an improvement). Line the 
pan with puff paste, spreading on it some 
apricot jam or any other preserve, pour in the 
above mixture, and then bake. 



57 



Plum Pudding. 

(college recipe, CAMBRIDGE.) 

I lb. of plums, ^ lb. of suet, ^ lb. of flour, 
2 eggs, a little salt, and 2 ozs. of sugar. Boil 
seven hours. 



i 



58 



Lemon Cheese Cakes. 

(MRS. SUTTON, 
HOUSEKEEPER, METHLEV PARK. 1842.) 

6 yolks of eggs, 4 whites of eggs, i lb. 
of white sugar sifted, 6 ozs. of fresh butter, 
The juice and grated rind of 3 lemons ; all 
to be well mixed and stirred over a slow fire, 
but not to boil. Bake in patty pans lined with 
sweet short paste. 



59 



The Louisa Pudding. 

(given by the late sir GEORGE WARRENDER 
TO LOUISA, MARCHIONESS OF WATERFORD.) 

Put i lb. of rice into cold water ; when it 
begins to boil, drain it through a sieve ; then 
put it into a stewpan with 4 ozs. of butter, 4 ozs. 
of sugar, a little salt, and a pint of milk. Place 
it on a moderate fire, and as soon as it boils put 
the stewpan on hot embers, and let it simmer 
an hour. Add 4 yolks and 2 whites of eggs. 
Butter a plain mould, and line with the rice 
whilst hot about an inch thick. Put it in a cool 
place, and just before serving fill with whipped 



i 



6o 

cream, flavoured with vanille ; turn it on a dish 
and pour a marmalade sauce over. Before the 
cream is put in, dip the mould into warm water 
for a moment. 



6i 



Dampf Nudels. 

(the queen dowager's cook. 1844.) 

For a dish mix three tablespoonfuls of 
German yeast with five of warm cream and 
I oz. of sugar. Mix that with i lb. of flour, and 
6 yolks of eggs one after the other ; work it 
well, and add 2 ozs. of butter nearly melted. 
Then put this paste into a warm place to rise ; 
when it has risen about an inch, put it on the 
table and cut pieces the size of an egg ; then 
let it rise again, and about twenty minutes 
before they are wanted, put them into a saut^ 
pan . with about ^ pint of hot milk, a little 



r 



62 

butter and sugar ; put them on the stove in a 
moderate fire ; the sautd pan must be covered 
all the time. Send them up with a custard 
sauce. You must begin them an hour before 
they are wanted. 



63 



To make Vine-leaf Fritters. 

Excellent. 
(MRS. GLASSK 1 747-) 

Take some of the smallest vine leaves you 
can get ; cut off the stalks, and put them in a 
dish with some green lemon rasped and a 
little sugar ; take a good handful of fine flour, 
mixed with a little white wine or ale. Let 
your butter be hot, and with a spoon drop in 
your batter. Take care the fritters do not stick 
to one another ; on each one lay a vine leaf, and 
fry them quickly, and strew a little sugar over 
them, and glaze with a red-hot shovel. 



4 



64 



German or Spanish PufiBs. 

(lady inglefield.) 

Put i lb. of fresh butter and a tea-cupful 
of water in a saucepan. When the butter is 
melted, stir in, while by the fire, 4 tablespoon- 
fuls of flour. When well mixed, put the in- 
jjredicnts in a dish to cool ; then add 4 well- 
bcatcn-up eggs. Half fill some buttered small 
moulds with the mixture, and bake in a quick 
oven. Serve with clarified sugar or wine sauce ; 
or, when cold, cut them at the side and fill with 
vanille custard. Served up in a napkin. 




6s 



Bayonne Method of Curing Hams. 

(lord poulett sent all the way to bayonne 
TO learn this recipe, and gave it to lord 

STUART DE ROTHESAY.) 

I lb. of bay salt, 2 ozs. of saltpetre, ^ lb. 
of common salt, i oz. of black pepper. Beat 
these well together in a mortar, and rub it 
well into the hams. Let them He four days, 
turning over each day ; then put to the hams 
i^ lb. of treacle, and rub them well with it. 
Keep them in the above pickle one month, 
often turning and rubbing them with it Then 
take them out, and soak them in cold water for 

F 



€ 



66 

twonty-four hours, after which hang them up to 
\\\y and smoke them. Hams thus cured are 
luit to be soaked before boiling beyond a very 
>ih(irl time, and are to be put into the pot when 
ihr water boils. They should be two or three 
hours boiling, or rather simmering, according to 
the size of the ham. 




67 



A Way of Cooking a Ham. 

(lady SARAH LINDSAY.) 

Soak the ham for twelve hours in cold 
water ; then place it in a large pan with the re- 
mains of any broth or stock ; fill up with water ; 
add herbs, onions, carrots, and one parsnip. 
Cover over closely, and put the pan on a slow 
fire to stew for four hours. When the ham is 
taken out, insert half a glass of claret into it 
before glazing ; and after it has been cut open 
sprinkle a little more in it, which gives a red 
colour and good flavour. 



F 2 



( 



68 



Kippered Salmon. 

(tyttenhanger. ) 

If the salmon is in pickle it will do very well. 
Take the fish out of the pickle, and leave it for 
a short time to drain ; then rub a very little 
brown sugar all over ; after that, as much 
ground black pepper as it will take up, and, if 
you please, a little cayenne. Put the fish on a 
board with a weight over it for thirty-six hours, 
and hang it up to dry. It ought to be cut in 
thin slices and put in buttered paper, and the 
least broil will do it. 



69 



Pressed Beef. 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

Bone a brisket of beef, rub it well with salt, 
saltpetre, and brown sugar ; let it remain for a 
few hours covered with this preparation. Make 
brine as follows : put some thyme, marjoram, 
basil, garlic, and bay-salt, with about i gallon of 
water ; add all the preparation which the meat 
is covered with, let it remain in pickle eight 
days ; be careful to turn the beef every day. 
When ready to cook, put it on to braise with all 
the trimmings of meat you may have about 
the larder ; it ought to simmer for seven hours. 



r 



70 



Pish, Indian Fashion. 

(lady STUART DE ROTHESAY.) 

Take a crimped fresh haddock, boil it 
quickly with salt in the water to make it firm ; 
boil 2 eggs hard, and slice them into a sauce- 
pan ; then take the firmest pieces of the fish, 
and add them to the eggs. You must then 
have 4 tablespoonfuls of rice well washed and 
blanched, and afterwards boiled in good broth 
until it is done ; then strain the broth from 
it, if there is any left, and add to it the fish 
and eggs with a little salt, cayenne, and white 
pepper, and keep hot until it is wanted. Take 
a spoonful of good white sauce, which is 



71 

generally made with good chicken or veal broth 
reduced very thick, and add to it i teaspoonful 
of Indian curry powder, and half a tumbler of 
good thick cream ; boil it again four or five 
minutes, and pass it through a tammy over the 
fish ; mix the ingredients gently on the fire, and 
dish it up very hot. This dish requires to be 
well seasoned. It can be made also of turbot, 
soles, or any other firm fish, and by putting a 
garnish of filleted soles or whiting makes a very 
pretty dish. 



r 



72 



Small Roll Sandwiches. 

(viscountess FALMOUTH.) 

Cut a circular piece off the top of each roll, 
and with the point of the knife remove the 
insides, and fill up with the following pre- 
paration : Cut up the breast of a roast or 
boiled fowl into small pieces, with half the 
quantity of ham or tongue, some chopped truf- 
fles, and small salad. Season with a little pep- 
per and salt, mixed together with some thick 
rich salad sauce. Fill the rolls with this pre- 
paration, replace the top, and dish them up on 
a napkin. 



73 



Adelaide Sandwiches. 

(tyttenhanger.) 

Cut the breast of a fowl or pheasant, or a 
slice of veal, beef, or mutton, in very small 
dice ; wash 4 anchovies, and cut them into dice, 
and place them with the meat. Then put two 
spoonfuls of velout^ sauce and a small quantity 
of grated Parmesan, a little salt, and cayenne 
pepper, into a stewpan ; boil these over the 
stove, stirring until reduced to a thick sauce ; 
then add the meat and anchovies, and mix the 
whole together, and use the preparation in the 
following manner : cut two dozen croutons in 
the form of a circle, fry them in clarified butter 



J 



r 



74 

to a bright yellow colour, and place one half in 
a clean baking sheet ; spread a thick layer of the 
above preparation on each of the croutons, then 
cover them with the remaining twelve cro{itons. 
Grate 4 ozs. of Parmesan cheese, and mix 
this with a pat of butter ; divide it into twelve 
parts, and cover the top of each sandwich. 
About ten minutes before sending to table, put 
them into the oven to be warmed thoroughly, 
pass the red-hot salamander over them to colour 
them of a bright yellow, dish them on a napkin, 
and serve with fried parsley. 



75 



Ox Cheek Brawn. 

(miss gape, manor, ST. ALBANS.) 

Boil the cheek of an ox tender ; when cold, 
cut it in small pieces ; then boil it up with i 
quart of strong broth, J oz. of isinglass, and a 
little pepper and salt. Pour it into a mould, and 
when cold it may be sent up whole or cut in 
slices. 



i 



76 



Charter Pie. 

(CORNISH RECIPE.) 

Take 3 or 4 very young chickens and cut 
them in quarters — season with salt only : let a 
good quantity of parsley be picked from the 
stalks, boil it in milk, and chop it very small. 
Put the whole into a dish with a quantity of 
thick cream, put paste over the dish, and bake 
it. Before it is sent to table, put a pint of hot 
cream into the pie. 



n 



Calf's Head Pie. 

(CORNISH RECIPE.) 

Half boil a calf's head, then cut it in thin 
slices, and put the meat in layers with the 
tongue, sweet herbs, spices, sago, and eggs. 
Boil the bones, and pour the jelly after it is 
strained over the meat ; when it is cold, put 
a crust over and bake it. This pie is only to 
be eaten cold. Half a calf s head is sufficient 
for a pie : the brains are omitted. 



7S 



An old-&shioaed Pigeon Pie, very good 

(OLD BATH COOKERY BOOK.) 

Co\*er your dish with puflf-paste crust ; let 
yr>UT pigeons be tender and nicely picked ; 
season \i^th brown pepper and salt, and a little 
chopped onion, and put a good piece of butter 
with a little more pepper and salt under the 
pigeons ; lay them in your pan with the necks, 
gizzards, livers, and pinions between ; put a very 
tender beef-steak in the middle, and add the 
yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs ; half fill the dish 
with water, lay on the top crust and bake well, 
taking great care not to bum the paste. 



79 



Roman Pie. 

(HON. MISS JERVIS, BATH.) 

Boil I rabbit or chicken, cut off all the 
meat as thin as possible ; 2 oz. of maccaroni 
boiled very tender, 2 oz. of Parmesan cheese 
grated, a little shallot chopped very fine, and 
pepper and salt, not quite J pint of cream. Line 
a mould with good paste, sprinkle with vermi- 
celli, and bake an hour ; serve with brown 
sauce. 



4 



8o 



Beef-steak Pudding. 

(methley park. 1840.) 

One slice of the undercut of a sirloin of well- 
kept beef, then oysters, then veal fat, and so fill 
up the pudding. Add a little Harvey sauce, half 
a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, salt, and white 
pepper; mushrooms and shallots improve the 
flavour. 






8i 








Capuchin Sauce. 








(lady WILLIAMS.) 






Tarragon, chervil, shallots. 


and parsley 


chopped 


down, with oil and 


vinegar, 


for 


herrings ; 


but for salmon add lemon juice 


and 


cayenne ; 


the chervil may be 


omitted 


with 


trout. 


G 







i 



82 



Tomato Sauce. 

(lady inglefield.) 

4 lbs. of tomatoes, 6 ozs. of shallots, and 4 
ozs. of garlic, to be boiled together gently for 
one hour. Then rub through a sieve as much 
as you can, and boil the pulp you cannot get 
through in i^ pint of vinegar, with 4 ozs. of 
salt, 2 drachms of chilies, or 3 large capsicums, 
for a short time ; then add the remainder of 
the pulp, some mushroom catsup, 2 or 3 cloves, 
and cayenne pepper. Boil one hour ; strain 
when cold, and bottle. 



83 



To make Sauce for Wild Duck. 

(queen anne's royal cookery book.) 

Take winter savory, thyme, and sage, of 
each a little ; put these very small into some 
strong broth, a little pepper, salt, a little ginger, 
2 spoonfuls of claret, and 2 spoonfuls of 
mutton gravy, and boil all this a quarter of an 
hour ; put in the gravy that drops from the 
ducks, but none of the fat of them. When 
the ducks are three-quarters roasted, pour the 
same through them ; and when they are cut up, 
put them on a chafing dish of coals, and stew 
them a little. 



G 2 



t 



84 



Vinaigrette Sauce for Cold Meat 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

Chop mint, parsley, andj shallot, and mix 
with salad oil and vinegar. 




8s 



Tartar Sauce. 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

Salad oil, French mustard, and tarragon 
vinegar (all in proportion) ; the yolks of 2 eggs ; 
chopped parsley and other herbs. Excellent 
for fish or broils. 



i 



S6 



Mayonnaise Sauce. 

(lady ARTHUR HILL.) 

Put in a round basin the yolks of 2 eggs 
and a pinch of salt. Stir in, drop by drop, 
2 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, moving the spoon 
very rapidly round, to work in the oil. When 
it is thick, add a few drops of tarragon vinegar, 
then more oil ; thin it with a little more vinegar. 
When finished it should be quite thick and 
rather acid. The above is a good sauce for 
salad, and for cold salmon or chicken. 



87 



White Soup with Herbs. 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

I quart of veal and beef stock, strong, and 
made to boil, i tablespoonful of chopped tarragon 
and chervil ; boil until tender. Add a gill of 
cream and 3 yolks of eggs beaten well together ; 
stir till quite hot ; do not boil for serving. 



88 



To make a White Soup of Sago. 

(old recipe, greyhurst.) 

Get a knuckle of veal, and boil it four 
hours ; 2 onions, i carrot, and a head of celery ; 
pass all through a sieve, and take all the fat off. 
Then put it into a stewpan and boil it up ; add 
2 ozs. of sago, 2 ozs. of semolina, and the yolk 
of 2 eggs, a gill of cream, and pepper and salt 
to taste. 



89 



Fish Soup (White). 
(scotch recipe.) 

Take a saucepan, put on as much water as 
you wish to make soup, and let it come to a 
boil. Take as much fresh fish as you think 
sufficient to make the gravy good, with a few 
blades of parsley and 2 onions ; skim it well, 
and let it boil some hours, until you find the 
gravy to your taste. Then strain the gravy from 
the fish ; take 2 or 3 ozs. of butter with as much 
flour as you think sufficient to thicken it to the 
consistency of white soup ; let it come to a boil, 
then add some pieces of the best of your fish. 



4 



90 

with a little parsley minced fine, and a little 
white pepper, for about ten minutes before 
serving. Add i or 2 gills of cream according 
to the quantity of soup. 



91 



Cod's Head Soup (Brown). 
(scotch recipe.) 

Cut 6 large onions in slices, put them in a 
stewpan with ^ lb. of the best fresh butter ; put 
them into a stove to simmer for an hour covered 
close up. Take the head and all the pieces you 
can get off the fish ; put them on a plate, dredge 
them .with flour, and let them stand. Take all 
the bones of the heads and remainder, and boil 
them for an hour in 3 English pints of water. 
Strain this through a sieve, and put the liquor 
to the onions, &c. Add a large handful of 
parsley, well washed and picked ; chop it as fine 



/ 



92 

as possible, put it in the soup, and let it just 
boil, otherwise it will make it yellow. Add a 
little cayenne pepper, 2 spoonfuls of anchovy, 
and a tablespoonful of chili vinegar ; then put 
the fish in the stewpan to the soup, and let it 
simmer for ten minutes, and send it hot to table. 
If not 'thick enough, add a little bit of butter 
the size of a walnut, and a little flour. 



93 



Cr6me de Tapioca. 

(countess of WARWICK.) 

Take 4 spoonfuls of pearl barley or tapioca, 
blanch and put it into a stewpan with some 
chicken consommd and a small head of whole 
celery. Boil gently till done ; take the celery 
out, and add a liaison of 2 yolks of eggs, and 
\ pint of. cream at the last ; it must not boil. 
If it is made of barley, serve up very thin slices 
of lemon with it. 



i 



94 



Green Asparagus Soup. 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

Take 3 large bundles of asparagus, break off 
as far as it is tender, parboil it in water, then 
pound it in a mortar, rub it through a tammy, 
and add as much strong savoury stock as will 
make it the same consistency as green pea soup. 
Be careful not to let it boil till just before you 
send up the soup, or it loses its colour. 



95 



v> 



Soup it la Flamande. 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

Take turnips, onions, celery, leeks, and 
Jerusalem artichokes, 4 or 5 of each ; stew them 
in a little white broth ; pass it through a tammy. 
When it is to be served, add i pint of cream 
and 4 yolks of eggs. It must not boil after the 
eggs are put in. 



/ 



96 



Cheese Soup k la Bibron. 

In proportion for a large or small party. 
(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

Slice 4 onions with \ lb. of lean ham ; put it 
in a stewpan with a good piece of butter, and 
let it fry till quite brown. Add to it \ lb. of 
bread crumbs, 3 pints of good broth, and a little 
cayenne pepper. Boil for half an hour ; remove 
from the fire, and add \ lb. of Parmesan cheese. 
Pass it through a tammy ; let it boil up once 
the last moment before serving. Have 6 yolks 
of eggs mixed with 3 tablespoonfuls of broth 
added ; do not let it go near the fire afterwards ; 
cut bread in small dice and fry in clarified 
butter, and serve. 



97 



\ 



Brocon Soup. 

(lady inglefield.) 

Take 2 good-sized onions and a little ham, 
cut in small pieces ; simmer with a little butter 
till quite brown ; mix 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 
with this, add a quart of good stock, a sprig of 
thyme, and let all boil for half an hour, stirring 
occasionally to prevent burning. Season with 
salt and a little cayenne, a dessert-spoonful of 
sugar, and a glass of wine, sherry or Madeira. 
Boil 3 eggs for ten minutes ; get the yolks out 
and rub them through a sieve with a little 
butter, pepper, and salt, and a dessert-spoonful 

H 



i 



98 

of flour. Make them into little balls about the 
size of marbles ; let them remain in boiling 
water over the fire for a few minutes to blanch 
them ; put them on a sieve, and throw them in 
just as the soup is being served up. 



99 



Potage Chiffonade. 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

A handful of sorrel, 2 heads of cabbage 
lettuce, ^ handful of tarragon, ^ handful of 
chervil. Cut the herbs, well washed, into very 
thin slices ; put a piece of fresh butter into a 
strong stewpan, and pass the herbs in it for 
twenty minutes on a sharp fire, then put some 
good veal broth or beef stock to it. When it 
boils put it in the corner of the stove and skim 
it well ; let it stew one hour and a half, that the 
herbs may be well done. Season it to your 
palate, and serve up very hot. 



H 2 



lOO 



Clear Soup with Omelette. 

ExcellenL 
(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

Make a clear light soup, and just before 
serving up make a thin savoury omelette, taking 
care not to burn it, and add it to the soup 
chopped into small pieces. 



lOI 



Omelette for Soup. 

(HON. MISS JERVIS, BATH.) 

The yolks of 3 eggs, a teaspoonful of salt, 
and i tea-cupful of white stock well beaten up. 
Put into a buttered tin and steam three-quarters 
of an hour ; then let it get cold, and cut into the 
shapes required. 



t 



102 



Potage k la Reine. 

(countess of WARWICK.) 

Prepare a mixture the same as for * Croust- 
ades k la Reine,'* only add the consomm^ and 
^ pint of boiling cream at the last, and serve 
with croCitons. It must be put into a bain- 
marie, and the bain-marie into a stewpan of 
boiling water, and warmed gradually. 

> See p. 1 68. 



I03 



Soup k la Reine. 

(MRS. CHARLOTTE MASON. 1 787.) 

Put into a stewpan 2 lbs. of lean veal cut 
into slices, 2 or 3 slices of ham or lean bacon, 
a carrot, a large onion sliced, 4 peppercorns, and 
a dozen coriander seeds. Let these draw very 
gently ; add 4 quarts of beef broth, and let it 
boil quietly one hour ; strain it ; pound the 
white of a roast fowl ; blanch and beat ^ lb. of 
sweet almonds, half a dozen of bitter ; bruise 4 
yolks of eggs boiled hard ; mix these with the 
soup, rub it through a napkin, beat it, and add a 
little cream ; keep it stirring, do not let it boil ; 
put into the tureen the crumb of a French roll 
whole. 



r 



104 



Cock-a-Leekie. 

(earl of stair, lochinch.) 

Boil an old fowl for three hours, reduce the 
liquor to 2 pints ; put about a pint of good 
beef soup. ^ Cut 8 or lO leeks (the thick white 
parts about an inch long) ; boil in the liquor 
for two hours. Then take I2 prunes, stone 
them, and let them boil in the soup a quarter 
of an hour. Serve hot. If thick, a little beef 
soup may be added. This is enough for six 
persons. 



105 



Water Souch^. 

(dutch recipe, given to lady STUART DE ROTHESAY 
BY THE LATE LORD MONTAGU.) 

Take 6 flounders ; boil 2 in a little water ; 
when well done, take the fillets off, put the 
bones back in the water, reduce it to a small 
quantity. Chop some onions and parsley very 
fine, fry them in butter ; add a little flour 
and cream to the water the flounders were 
boiled in. Season with pepper and salt to 
your taste. Put back the fillets, and boil the 
remainder of the flounders. The last thing put 
the sauce over them. 



/ 



io6 



'A good strong savoury Broth as it was 
made for the Queen on mornings/ 

(from queen anne's royal cookery book.) 

Make some very good broth with the lean 
of veal, beef, or mutton, and with a brawny 
hen or young cock ; after it is scummed, put 
in an onion quartered (and if you like, a clove 
of garlic), a little parsley, a sprig of thyme, 
as much mint, a little baum, some coriander 
seeds bruised, a very little saffron, salt, pepper, 
and a clove. When all the substance is boiled 
out of the meat, and the broth very good, 
you may drink it so, or pour a little of it 



I07 

on toasted sliced bread, and stew it till the 
bread has drunk up all that broth ; then add 
a little more and stew so, adding broth by 
little and little, that the bread may imbibe it 
and swell, whereas if you drown it at once 
the bread will not swell and grow like jelly, and 
thus you have a good* pottage. You may add 
cabbage, or leeks, or endive, or parsley roots 
before the broth has ended boiling, and time 
enough for them to become tender. In the 
summer you may put in lettuce, sorrel, purs- 
lane, borage, and buglos, but green herbs do 
rob the strength and vigour and cream of the 
pottage. 



io8 



Soupe k la Bonne Femme. 

(countess of WARWICK.) 

Wash clean a head of lettuce without the 
stalk ; cut it in nice strips, and a good handful 
of sorrel ; wash, and put all into a stewpan to 
reduce ; add some good chicken consomm^, boil 
gently for half an hour, and when about to 
serve cut out of the crust of a French roll some 
little round pieces, and put them in the soup. 



109 



Chicken Soup. 

(lady SARAH E. LINDSAY.) 

Boil down the chicken bones, add a little 
savoury stock, then semolina and a little sago, 
and boil gently till all is ready for serving. 
Cream may be added, but is rot needed. 



/ 



no 



Mutton Broth. 

(MRS. WHITE, 
FORMER COOK TO LADY SARAH E. LINDSAY.) 

Boil about 2 lbs. of the neck of mutton 
with leeks, carrots, i turnip, a parsnip, and 
a little celery, salt to taste, in 5 pints of water 
until the meat is thoroughly done ; prepare 
cutlets, put the trimmings from the cutlets in 
the broth. When done, having prepared a 
carrot, 2 turnips cut in small dice, with two 
leeks, strain the stock and put the cutlets in 
with the prepared vegetables, and half a tea- 
cupful of rice. Boil two hours very gently, 
skimming well. 



Ill 



Mock Turtle Soup. 

(old bath cookery book.) 

Provide 2 calves* feet and i chicken ; 
cut them into pieces of a proper size for a 
fricassee ; make the seasoning with 3 large 
onions, a handful of parsley, and a few sweet 
herbs. Chop them all together, then season 
the meat ; let the calves' feet stew two hours ; 
then put in the chicken, let it stew half an hour. 
Add a glass of Madeira and some cayenne 
pepper ; let the whole stew together half an 
hour, and serve up in a soup tureen. 



( 



112 



Clear Mock Turtle Soup. 

(brickhill manor.) 

I calfs head, 12 lbs. of stock meat. The 
head to be boiled two hours, then taken out, and 
the meat laid aside ; all the bones with the 
stock meat put on to boil for six hours, well 
garnished with fine herbs and shallots rather 
than onions ; then passed through the sieve, 
when all the fat must be taken off. The calfs 
head to be cut in small pieces, add a little 
cayenne pepper and salt, two small glasses 



113 

of sherry mixed with 2 tablespoonfuls of clear 
arrowroot, and serve very hot ; the skin must 
be left on the head. Sufficient for a party 
of ten. 



i 



114 



Hotch-Potch. 

(ELIZABETH, COUNTESS OF BALCARRES. 1806.) 

Take the breast and back ribs of mutton, 
cut them in small pieces, and wash them well ; 
put them in a pot with 3 Scotch pints of 
water along with 2 whole turnips and 2 whole 
carrots ; let them boil two hours, then take out 
the meat, and run the soup through a sieve to 
keep out the small bones ; put it on again 
with 2 or 3 turnips cut small, and the same 
quantity of carrots, 2 or 3 onions, and ^ peck 
of peas, and if the soup be not sufficiently 



IIS 

thick, bruise the turnips and carrots that were 
boiled with the mutton, and put in the mutton 
about two hours before dinner, with salt and 
pepper to your taste. 



I 2 



t 



u6 



Barley Broth. 

(ELIZABETH, COUNTESS OF BALCARRES. 1806.) 

Take 8 lbs. of fresh beef, wash it in warm 
water, put it in a soup pot with 6 quarts of 
water, and a tea-cup of pearl barley. Set it on 
the fire, when it boils skim it well, put a little 
cold water in the soup pot and skim it again, 
until no more scum rises. (When the beef is 
sufficiently boiled take it out, and dish sepa- 
rately when ready.) Then take 2 turnips, 2 
carrots, 4 onions, a small bit of white cabbage ; 
cut all very fine, put them into the broth, 



117 

let them boil slowly for four or five hours. 
After the roots have been put in, you may 
have a whole carrot and turnip boiled in your 
broth. When sufficiently done, break them 
with a spoon in a basin. Put them into 
the broth for ten minutes before you dish it ; 
this gives a good colour, and thickens the 
broth. 



e 



ii8 



Savoury Souffle. 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

Take a pheasant, partridge, or hare, pound 
the meat in a mortar with 4 spoonfuls of flour, a 
little onion and parsley, { lb. of butter ; season, 
and mix with it the yolks of 4 eggs ; pass it 
through a sieve ; beat up 6 whites of eggs ; mix 
in lightly. Let the whole be put in a cloth, and 
baked three-quarters of an hour ; mind it does 
not burn. 



119 



To make Grouse SoufS£c 

(given by sir WILLIAM ALEXANDER, Q.C., TO 
LADY SARAH E. LINDSAY, IN THE HIGHLANDS. 1 848.) 

Take the breasts of 2 grouse that have 
been dressed, pound them in a mortar with 
2 ozs. of fresh butter and a soupgon of onion. 
Then rub them through a sieve ; add 4 eggs, 
the whites beaten to a high froth ; season with 
cayenne and a little salt. Twenty minutes 
will bake it in a tin in a quick oven. To be 
served up very hot. 



i 



I20 



Souffle de Parmesan. 

(from a FRENCH RECIPK) 

Place in a stewpan i oz. of butter, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour, a little salt, ^ pint of milk, 
the yolks of 4 eggs, and 2 spoonfuls of cream. 
Boil till thick, and when sufficiently cool add 
the whites of the eggs whipped up, stiffen 
gently, stir in with the other ingredients ; strew 
in lightly 2 ozs. of Parmesan cheese, and a 
little pinch of cayenne pepper. Bake in a quick 
oven. 



121 



Cheese Puffs. 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

I 

Grate some Parmesan cheese into a rich puff 
paste, roll it as thin as possible, cut it into 
pieces the size of a crown piece, and throw them 
into hot lard ; ^ lb. of the grated cheese will be 
sufficient to flavour two dozen puffs. 



/ 



122 



Cheese Straws. 

(countess of ST. GERMANS. 1854.) 

i lb. of puff paste ; 2 ozs. of Parmesan cheese, 
grated very fine. Sprinkle the cheese and a little 
cayenne pepper on the paste, roll it two or three 
times, cut it six inches long and two wide. Bake 
in a moderately heated oven, and send up very 
hot. 



123 



Hindoo Relish. 

Excellent, 

(brickhill manor.) 

Boil eggs very hard ; cut lengthwise ; then 
take the yolks without breaking the white, and 
pass through a sieve with as much butter and 
grated ham, and small pinch of curry powder ; 
mix well together and refill the eggs, then put 
them in the oven till browned. Serve very hot 
on dry toast. 



I 



124 



Risotto k la Milanaise. 

(lady ARTHUR HILL.) 

Fry in a saucepan, with butter, an onion 
finely minced, and when it is of a golden colour 
put in sufficient rice ; keep adding stock or 
broth as fast as the grain absorbs it. When 
the grain begins to burst, remove it from the 
fire ; add plenty of Parmesan cheese, a little 
salt, pepper, and butter. 



125 



Italian Stewed Rice. 

(LOUISA, MARCHIONESS OF WATERFORD.) 

Chop half an onion fine and put in a stew- 
pan with 3 ozs. of butter. Fry for a few minutes. 
Add ^ lb. of rice, and i pint of good stock, 
pepper, and salt. Stew for half an hour, and 
add a tablespoonful of Parmesan cheese before 
serving. 



126 



Persian Recipe for Boiling Rice. 

(old recipe.) 

Soak the rice in cold water for two hours ; 
then put it into a pot of boiling water and boil 
for half an hour, till the rice is just about to 
soften. Lift the pot off the fire, and pour all its 
contents into a cullender to strain the water off. 
Fresh water must then be poured over the rice 
in the cullender, and the rice stirred round while 
it strains off, so as to wash the rice perfectly 
clean and carry off the glutinous matter. A 
small quantity of clarified butter is then put 
into the pot with fresh water and the rice poured 
back. Cover the pot, and boil gently over a 
slow fire for two hours. 



127 



Petits Pois k la Demi-Bourgeoise. 

(lady BUCKINGHAMSHIRE. 1 768.) 

Put a large pint and a half of young peas 
into a stewpan with a bit of butter, bunch of 
parsley, young onion, and i cabbage lettuce cut 
in form. Let them be stewed in their own 
juice upon a very slow fire ; when they are done, 
and there is hardly any sauce left, add a little 
sugar, very little fine salt, and afterwards the 
yolks of two eggs with some cream. Mix the 
whole on the fire and serve it up. 



128 



To Stew Old Peas of the Last Year. 

(mr. lewis.) 

Soak them one night in soft water, and next 
morning they will be found to have the appear- 
ance of being just taken from the shells. They 
must be stewed slowly for two hours in soft 
water just sufficient to cover them, adding let- 
tuce, mint, and a lump of sugar, pepper, and salt, 
thickened with butter and flour. They may be 
done with veal or lamb, but are very good as a 
side dish. 



129 



Potato Croquettes. 

(old recipe.) 

Mix 4 ozs. of grated Westphalia or English 
ham with i lb. of mealy potatoes mashed with 
butter, salt, and 2 eggs ; form them into small 
loaves, and fry them in butter ; serve them up 
in brown gravy. 



K 



t 



130 



Potatoes k la Lyonnaise. 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

Put i lb. of butter in a frying-pan ; cut 2 
onions into dice, put them with the butter, and 
1 2 boiled potatoes, also cut into dice ; throw 
them into the pan and stir for ten minutes, then 
dish them up hot. Less in quantity for a small 
dinner. 



131 



Potato Chips. 

(methley park.) 

The potatoes must be pared raw and cut in 
long pieces ; put them into water, or they will 
turn black ; then in a cloth to dry. Shake a 
little flour over them, and be sure to have the 
lard quite hot, otherwise they will boil instead 
of crisping. Before dishing up, sprinkle a little 
salt over the chips. 



K 2 



r 



1^2 



Pomme de Terre SoufiS^. 
(barham court.) 

Take 6 potatoes of equal size ; bake them in 
a slow oven till well done. With the point of a 
knife cut off a piece large enough only to ad- 
mit of a teaspoon to empty them. Pass the 
potatoes quickly through a fine wire sieve ; have 
ready a little boiling milk sufficient to make a 
pur6e as thick as cream ; wash it well with a 
wooden spoon ; add salt and pepper to taste. 
Let it cool. Whip the white of i egg to a 
strong froth ; mix it very lightly with the pur^e ; 
fill the skins quite full, and bake them in a quick 



133 

oven twenty minutes. Serve very hot. Great 
care must be taken to pass the potatoes and 
mix the pur^e very quickly, or the potatoes will 
become rough, and not rise when baked. 



/ 



J54 



Macaroni Pudding. 

(FRENCH RECIPE.) 

4 ozs. of macaroni to be well boiled, i pint 
of milk, 5 yolks and 2 whites of eggs, a little 
boiled ham cut in dice, i tablespoonful of 
bechamel sauce ; mustard, pepper, and salt to 
taste. Steam one hour and a half. 



135 



Veal Pkt6s. 

(brickhill manor.) 

Chop some veal and a bit of lean ham or 
tongue together ; make a little good beef gravy 
hot ; add a little cream ; make it boil ; shake a 
little pepper over the veal, add a little shallot 
or garlic ; put all into the gravy. Make it 
thoroughly hot. Fill your pdtds when you take 
them out of the cream. 



/ 



13^ 



Piemontese Tartlets. 

(HON. MISS JERVIS, BATH.) 

Make a paste of i oz. of butter, 2 ozs. of 
flour, the yolk of i egg, a little water, and a 
pinch of salt ; roll it to the thickness of an 
eighth of an inch, line some patty-pans with it. 
Take 2 ozs. of finely grated Parmesan cheese, 
beat it up with the yolks of 2 eggs ; add pepper, 
salt, and a little cayenne ; work in 2 table- 
spoonfuls of cream ; fill the patties, and bake 
in a moderate oven. 




137 



Mayonnaise. 

(AMERICAN RECIPE.) 

Roast a pair of fowls in the morning ; 
leave them till quite cool. Immediately before 
serving, carve the fowls and put them com- 
pactly into a dish. Take the yolks of 5 eggs, 
and pour in a very fine continual stream half a 
bottle of the best olive oil and a small tea- 
spoonful of mustard. Stir the same way till they 
are creamed ; then add a teaspoonful of shal- 
lot vinegar into the dressing, and, having put 
a little pepper, salt, and vinegar on the fowl, 
pour the dressing over it, and arrange bunches 
of cool fresh lettuce, and garnish with hard- 
boiled eggs cut in four quarters. 



i 



I3S 



Curried Spinach. 

(MRS. LUCY, SEX., CHARLECOTE.) 

Take some carefully cooked spinach, and fry- 
it in boiling butter, in which a little curry pow- 
der (a tablespoonful) has been already fried ; 
add to this a dozen prawns or shrimps, and fry 
the whole together slowly for one hour. A plate 
should be turned down all over this to keep in 
the pieces which otherwise are lost. Serve as 
an entrde. Good hot or cold. 



139 



Lord Clive's Curry. 

(an AMERICAN RECIPE.) 

Slice 6 onions, i green apple, and a clove of 
garlic. Stew them in a little good stock until 
they will pulp ; then add i teaspoonful of curry 
powder, a few tablespoonfuls of stock, a little 
salt and cayenne pepper, half a salt-spoonful 
of each. Stew in this gravy any kind of meat 
cut into small pieces, adding a piece of butter 
the size of a walnut rolled in flour. 



/ 



I40 



Ham Pancakes. 

(HON. MISS JERVIS.) 

A common pancake should be a few minutes 
in the frying-pan before the ham is put on it. 
Then cover the ham with a little more batter ; 
ttfler a few more minutes it must be turned and 
frUd altogether The slices of ham or bacon 
.>4hould be cut as thin as possible. 



\ 

* 




141 



An Old-Fashioned Welsh Rarebit 

(old recipe.) 

Toast the bread very neatly on both sides 
and butter it. Cut a slice of cheese about as 
long as the bread, toast it on one side, and with 
a hot iron brown the other. Rub over a little 
mustard, and serve very hot 



S 



142 



Cayenne Cheese. 

(miss gape, manor, ST. ALBANS.) 

Weigh equal quantities of Parmesan cheese, 
butter, and flour ; add cayenne pepper to your 
taste. Roll it out in pieces, the size of French 
pastry ; bake them in a moderate oven, and 
send them up quite hot in a napkin. 



143 



Green Butter. 

(MADAME GRISI.) 

Boil a handful of parsley ; let it get cold ; add 
I oz. of fresh butter and a little anchovy paste 
or anchovies (less than the size of a small 
walnut), and pass it all through a fine sieve; 
and it must be sent up quite cold. 



f 



144 



Spanish Butter. 

(hon. miss tuchet.) 

Dissolve I oz. of isinglass in a pint of new 
milk ; then add i pint of cream, a little rose 
water to taste, or other flavouring, a few bitter 
almonds, and sweeten. Have ready the yolks 
of 4 eggs well beaten. Mix altogether, set on 
the fire, and constantly stir it until it begins to 
simmer ; then strain through a muslin bag till 
nearly cold, and pour into moulds. 



145 



Spanish Recipe for Anchovies. 

(given by the late lady HOLLAND TO THE DUKE 

OF BEDFORD.) 

Anchovies with oil are much improved by 
having knotted marjoram mixed with them, as 
in Spain. 



.J- - -' 



146 



Anchovy Butter. 

(viscountess FALMOUTH.) 

4 anchovies must be washed, and the bones 
taken out and pounded well in a mortar. Boil 
some celery and run it through a sieve with 
2 ozs. of fresh butter. Mix the whole well 
together, make it into pats, and ice it. 



147 



EASTERN COOKERY. 
Translated from the words of Karabet Akhtgu 

(given by the HON. MISS TUCHET.) 

Boorgoo. 

Sometimes boorgoo is used instead of rice. 
This boorgoo is malt made of wheat, instead 
of barley ; it may be kept for some time, and 
when it is to be used in cookery, it is boiled 
in the same manner as rice, and used in the 
same way ; but only in savoury, and not 
sweet dishes. I am surprised that this has 
not hitherto been introduced into European 
cookery, as it is an excellent dish. 



L 2 



/ 



148 



EASTERN COOKERY {continued). 

Kebab. 

Take tender meat, such as mutton, kidneys, 
or sweetbread ; cut it into pieces the size of a 
nut, stick one piece on an iron skewer, then a 
piece of fat, then a piece of some vegetable 
such as tomato or potato, then another piece 
of meat, and so on till the skewer is full. Add 
pepper and salt, and toast by the side of the 
fire. When roasted, cut open a new roll or 
flat piece of new bread ; take the kebabs off 
the skewers, and put them inside the bread ; 
pour some gravy over this, and serve hot. 



149 

Sometimes the meat is steeped for an hour in 
red wine before it is put on the skewers. 

Yaourt, a kind of sour milk, may be poured 
over this dish for sauce ; it is also occasionally 
covered over with salad chopped small. 



/ 



ISO 



EASTERN COOKERY {conHnued), 

Teng^r6 Kebab. 

Take a piece of meat, fry till it is half done 
in butter, put it into a stewpan (teng^r6) with 
lemon peel, a glass of red wine, a small 
quantity of spices, pepper, salt, and cover it 
close. Stew it for four hours over a small 
charcoal fire. 



iSi 



EASTERN COOKERY (cmtinued). 

Dolma. 

Mince mutton with onions and rice ; with 
this stuff cucumbers, gourds, or vegetable 
marrows. Mix some broth with the yolk of 
an egg and lemon juice ; pour this over the 
dolmas for sauce. 




152 



EASTERN COOKERY (continued). 

Dolma of Vine Leaves. 

Put the vine leaves in boiling water for 
a moment, or throw boiling water over them ; 
put a small quantity of mincemeat and rice 
into each, and wrap it up in the leaf Stew 
them in broth. 



153 



EASTERN COOKERY {continued). 

Tomato Patties. 

These are made of anything of which pat- 
ties are usually made ; but instead of pastry, 
the meat is to be put into the tomatoes, of 
which the insides have been taken out, and 
fried in butter or baked. 



154 



EASTERN COOKERY {amtmrntJ), 

Keinftd 

Pound meat and suet in a mortar, with 
onions half boiled, parsley and eggs, pepper, 
salt, and a little water. Make this into small 
balls, throw flour over them, and fry them. 



iSS 



EASTERN COOKERY (continued), 

Keihma. 

Squeeze the water out of a vegetable 
marrow ; grate it small, grate some new cheese, 
add eggs and a small quantity of fried onions 
and pistachio nuts ; make this into a paste, 
and beat it up well together. Then take some 
slices of vegetable marrow, or fruit of the egg 
plant, spread the paste upon them rather 
thickly, having first put a little butter on the 
slices. Bake in a slow oven for half an hour. 



156 



Mousse de Volaille. 

(countess of WARWICK.) 

Take the fillets of a chicken, pound them 
in a mortar ; then pass through a hair sieve, 
put it into a basin, and twenty minutes before 
dinner whip ^pint of cream very stiff. Add 
it by degrees to the meat, and season with 
salt according to taste. Put the mixture in 
a buttered mould, and have a steamer ready. 
The water must simmer only, not boil, or 
else it will curdle. Put the mould into it, 
and steam it for ten minutes. Make a supreme 



157 

sauce with the bones ; turn the mousse on the 
dish, absorb all water that may come from it, 
pour the sauce round, and serve. A mousse 
may be done the same with game or fish. 



k^k««taiaUCU 



i;3 



Boudin de Volaille Allemande. 

(countess or Warwick.) 

Take the meat of chicken, game, or rabbit ; 
make some nice forcemeat very soft with 
cream ; shape like quenelles, or steam in small 
moulds. When cold, make some Allemande 
sauce (which is reduced velout^) ; then add a 
little cream, I yolk of egg, and a little mush- 
room juice ; boil, then pass through a tammy. 
Mask the boudin over with it ; when cold, cover 
with eggs and bread crumbs, and fry in hot 
lard. The softer you make the forcemeat 
with cream, the better it is. 



1 59 



Timbales k la Parisienne. 

(countess of WARWICK.) 

Take a plain charlotte mould, well buttered ; 
make ready some macaroni ; when cooked, cut 
it very thin and put it all round the mould ; 
then line with some chicken forcemeat ; have 
some quenelles made with a teaspoon ; poach 
in stock a little tongue, chicken cut the same 
as for blanquette, mushrooms, and truffles. 
Reduce some sauce, and put all into the mould ; 
cover the top with forcemeat, steam for half 
an hour, and serve with thin veloutd sauce. 



i6o 



Bouch€es des Cervelles. 

(countess of WARWICK.) 

Put the brains of 2 sheep's heads in salt and 
water for twenty-four hours (not much salt). 
Put them into a stewpan in cold water with a 
little vinegar, a little onion, parsley, carrot, 
thyme, and bay leaf. Let them gently come 
to the boil ; take them off when cold, cut all 
in small dice, but very carefully, or they will 
break. Before serving, warm a little velout^ 
put the brains in, warm again, and serve the 
bouch^s in a napkin. 



i6i 



Supreme de Volaille. 

(countess of WARWICK.) 

Put a chicken, cut into nice fillets, into a 
buttered saucepan ; cover with some clarified 
butter. About ten minutes before serving, put 
them in the oven and just set them ; if too 
long they will harden. Take them to a hot 
plate, put some sauce over them, toss them, 
then dish up one by one like cutlets, alternately 
with slices of tongue warmed in consomm^. 
Peas, asparagus points, or juice of mushrooms 
in the centre, and veloute all round. 



M 



^ 



l!62 



Haricot Mutton Cutlets. 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

Cut a neck of mutton into chops, put them 
into a frying-pan, and fry them a nice h'ght 
brown. Then put the chops into a stewpan. 
Have ready some carrots, turnips, onions, cut 
and fried, with a little salt, pepper, flour ; add 
them to the chops,^ also fried a nice brown, 
with sufficient stock to cover the whole. Let 
them stew two hours ; put the chops round the 
dish,^ yegetahles in middle. 



i63 



Cutlets k ta Reform. 

(miss gape, manor, ST^ ALBANS.). 

Take lo or 12 mutton cutlets, very small, 
and well seasoned with pepper and salt. They 
are to be bread-crumbed, mixed with some 
ham and parsley chopped very fine, and put 
in. a saucepan well buttered. An excellent 
sauce for this dish. will, be found on. the following 
page.. 



yi T 



r 



164 



Sauce for the Cutlets k la Reform.^ 

(miss gape, manor, ST. ALBANS.) 

Take the white of an egg chopped in small 
fillets, and also cut some Indian pickle small ; 
3 or 4 spoonfuls of good seasoned gravy, a 
little cayenne pepper, half a spoonful of currant 
jelly, and a little Roux sauce. 

'See previous page. 



i65 



Excellent Scotch CoUops. 

(old recipe.) 

Cut your collops from the best end of a 
neck or leg of veal, rather larger than a crown 
piece ; mix i egg, a little butter and seasoning 
(such as mushrooms, a taste of garlic and herbs) ; 
dip your collops in that, put a little butter in a 
nice frying-pan, and fry them a light brown. 
Serve with a rich savoury sauce. 



i66 



Chicken Cutlets. 

(HON. MISS JKRVIS, BATH.) 

Boil a cupful of rice in milk until quite 
soft ; then pound it in a mortar with some salt 
and white pepper ; pound separately an equal 
quantity of cold chicken, some lean ham or 
bacon, and a very little grated lemon peel ; mix 
all together with the yolk of an egg, form into 
cutlets and brush them over with egg^ bread 
crumbs, and herbs like veal cutlets ; fry them 
a light brown, and serve with a sauce piquante 
made of gravy, tomato, or any other flavour. 



1 6/ 



Bouch^es 2l la Morglas. 

(countess of WARWICK.) 

Make some puflf-paste patties, and fill them 
with this mixture : some chicken cut in small 
dice, tongue, truffles, and mushrooms which 
have been put into a stewpan with a little 
velout^; fill the cases, and serve hot on a 
napkin. 



1 68 



Croustades k la Reine. 

(countess of WARWICK.) 

Take all the meat off a roasted chicken, 
pound it well in a mortar ; while pounding it 
have a stewpan on the fire with the bones and 
4 spoonfuls of rice. When cooked, take all 
the bones out, and put the rice into the mortar, 
and pound it well ; then put the meat and rice 
into the stewpan again. Add a little warm 
consomm^, pass it through a tammy, then put 
it into a clean stewpan with a little butter and 
cream ; warm, but do not boil. Make some 
small cases with paste like this : ^ lb. of flour, 



1 69 

2 ozs. of butter, i egg ; line the moulds with it 
very thinly (the thinner the more delicate), fill 
with barley, and bake. When of a nice colour, 
remove the barley, and fill with the pur^e to 
make puff-paste tops. Game can be done in the 
same way on a napkin. 



I70 



To Roast Larks with Bacon. 

(queen Anne's royal cookery book.) 

Put your larks on a small spit, with a slice of 
bacon and a sage leaf between each lark. Being 
roasted, dish them up with a sauce made of the 
juice of t>^'o or three oranges and a little sliced 
ginger ; then set it (the sauce) on the fire a little 
while, and beat it up with a piece of butter, and 
so serve them up. 



171 



Partridges ^ la Sierra Morena. 

(late sir ANDREW BARNARD.) 

Put into a middle-sized stewpan 4 partridges 
ready trussed ; cut | lb. of bacon in squares one 
inch thick, and put them in the stewpan. Take 
4 large onions, cut them in four quarters each, 
12 grs. of whole pepper, a little salt, 3 bay leaves, 
I gill of vinegar, ^ pint of port wine, ^ pint of 
water, 2 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, and put all 
these ingredients into the stewpan. Take half a 
sheet of brown kitchen paper, and cover the 
stewpan with it, making the lid quite tight ; 
then put the stewpan over a slow charcoal fire 



> 



172 

to stew for two hours. Take out the partridges, 
and when in the dish put round it some of the 
quarters of the onions that have been stewed. 
Pour the g^avy in the dish after it has passed 
through a sieve, and send to table. Chickens 
will likewise do in this way. 



173 



Faisan k la Tregothran. 

(viscountess FALMOUTH.) 

Bone a hen pheasant ; take the meat of 4 
woodcocks ^ with chopped truffles mixed with 
the forcemeat ; this is to form the stuffing for 
the boned pheasant ; the trail of the wood- 
cocks, fried in a little butter, put on pieces of 
toast round the dish. For gravy: stew the bones 
of the woodcocks, afterwards reduce the broth, 
add a little sherry or Madeira to the broth, and 
serve it in a boat ; season to taste, 

* Woodcocks are, or were, very plentiful in Cornwall. 



174 



German Way of Roasting a Fowt 
with Chestnuts. 

(MRS. C MASON. 1 787;) 

Roast some chestnuts of a fine brown, with- 
out burning them ; take off the skins, and peel 
them ; take about a dozen, cut them small, and 
bruise them in a mortar ; take J lb. of ham or 
bacon, and beat it till ft is very fine ; chop 
small a handfiil of parsley, a few sweet herbs, a 
little pepper and salt Mix all together, and 
put them into the fowl. Tie the neck very 
tight, and hang it up by th« legs ; roast it with 



175 

a string, and baste it with butter. For sauce : 
take some more chestnuts, peeled and skinned, 
put them into some good gravy with a little 
white wine, and thicken it with a piece of butter 
rolled in flour. 



/ 



1/6 



To Roast a Leg of Pork without Crackling. 

(given to lady STUART DE ROTHESAY.) 

The leg of pork to be salted three days ; 
then boiled for one hour, and the skin taken off; 
then to be roasted. It will require the same 
time roasting as if not boiled ; then to be basted 
with a tablespoonful of good vinegar, and a 
little cayenne pepper. The pork to be taken 
from the spit and laid in a dish before the fire ; 
the vinegar to be mixed with good savoury 
gravy, to be served up with the pork. 



177 



Savoury Vermicelli. 
(lady inglefield.) 

Set I pint of milk to boil on the fire, and 
•when it is ready put in 3 tablespoonfuls of 
vermicelli. Let it simmer five minutes ; add 3 
eggs both yolks and whites ; beat all up together 
with a little cream, salt, white pepper, and a 
little shallot Stick the mould with small neatly 
cut pieces of ham or tongue. Bake it, and serve 
when turned out with savoury gravy. 



N 



( 



178 



Mushroom Omelette. 

(dowager lady BUCKINGHAMSHIRE. 1757.) 

Fricassee your mushrooms ; then take half 
of them and mince them fine. Then mix into 
an omelette with the proper quantity bf eggs, 
yolks and whites, seasoned with a little salt, an 
onion sliced extremely fine, and some sliced 
parsley. Of this you must fry two omelettes in a 
small pan, for they should be thick and tender ; 
then lay your fricassee of mushrooms between 
the two omelettes, and serve them as hot as you 
can ; be sure to fry the omelettes very tender. 



179 



Carotte k la Flamande. 

(countess dowager of verulam.) 

Take some good carrots ; after cleaning 
them well, cut them into pieces the size of a 
shilling. Scald them in boiling water for al- 
most ten minutes ; then strain them through a 
tammy sieve. Put 4 ozs. of good butter in a 
saucepan ; then let it melt Put the carrots in 
the melted butter with a little sugar and salt ; 
then let them boil very slowly in the butter till 
the carrots are quite tender before serving up. 
You must strain off the butter, and add to the 
carrots a good large spoonful of bdchamel sauce, 
some suet as to fricassee of chicken, and a little 

chopped parsley. 

N 2 



4 



i8o 



Aspic Jelly, 

(old recipe.) 

2 lbs. of knuckle of veal, 2 lbs. of the shin of 
beef, I calf's foot, a few whole peppers, some 
salt, a stick of celery, a little carrot, a good 
bundle of herbs in which should be some 
tarragon, and i oz. of gelatine ; add a little 
sherry according to taste. Put all in a stewpan 
and simmer gently for six hours, skimming it 
well ; clear after the usual manner. 




i8i 



Jelly from Deer Horas« 

(MRS. LUCY, SEN., OF CHARLECOTE.) 

Saw the horns into short bits, scald them 
well, simmer for twelve hours or longer, and 
then, if stiff enough, make it as you would 
calves' feet jelly. A second boiling of the 
horns will make a little more stock ; it is most 
nourishing, and rt does notp matter how old the 
horns are. 



1 82 



Pudding k la Richelieu. 

(countess dowager of verulam.) 

Make ready a good forcemeat of quenelles of 
fowl or young rabbit Make the quantity wanted 
for an entr6e in flat quenelles 2 inches long to 
I inch wide. Poach them delicately in soup ; 
then let them drop on a napkin. When they 
are cold, put bread crumbs with egg on them. 
Take care not to spoil their shape ; fry them in 
a pan prepared with clarified butter. To make 
them take colour on both sides, five minutes 
before serving add half a glass of tomato sauce. 




i83 



CEufs ^ la Lady Evelyn. 

(lady ARTHUR HILL.) 

Boil hard 3 eggs, remove the shells, and cut 
them in half lengthwise ; place the whites in 
cold water ; be careful not to break them. Add 
a pat and a half of fresh butter to the yolks ; 
then work it smooth with a wooden spoon. 
Season with pepper, salt, and a little mustard ; 
grate a little lean ham, and mince a teaspoonful 
of parsley and some sweet herbs, Stir a por- 
tion of this in, and fill the eggs with it ; sprinkle 
the remainder of the ham and parsley on the top. 
Dish them up on 6 small croiitons, and send to 
table cold. 



1 84 



Eggs and Tomatoes. 

(SPANISH RECIPE. LADY ARTHUR HILL.) 

Roast and peel tomatoes, cut them up, strain 
them if necessary. Beat up some eggs well. 
Put in a saucepan some butter or oil ; whilst 
frying, put in the tomatoes with some chopped 
onions, garlic, and capsicums ; add the eggs, 
salt, and pepper, and keep stirring until they 
are nearly dry. 



i8s 



Dressed H^s. 

Very good* 
(viscountess FALMOUTH.) 

Boil 4 eggs twenty minutes ; cut the whites 
in small pieces ; rub the yolks through a coarse 
sieve. Make a white sauce with a little parsley 
chopped fine, and cream, cayenne, and salt; 
put in the whites, boil for one minute ; put them 
into a breakfast dish ; cover them with the yolks, 
and brown lightly with a salamander. 




j 

i i86 



Egg Sandwiches. 

(meneworth castle.) 

The yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs pounded in 
a mortar with a little chopped parsley, butter, 
salt, cayenne pepper, and a very little chutnee. 
When of a fine paste, spread on the sandwich 
bread, and put slices of chicken and small salad 
chopped. 



1 87 



To Broil Eggs. 

(from an old recipe book.) 

Cut a toast round a quartern loaf, brown it, 
and lay it in your dish, butter it very carefully, 
break your eggs on the toast, and pour a little 
seasoned stock over them ; take a red-hot 
kitchen shovel, and hold it over till it begins to 
frizzle, and send up your dish hastily. 



1 88 



To pickle Codlings. 

No other kind of apple wiU a$isrver the purpose* 

(an old methley park recipe.) 

> 

When codlings are at their full growth, 
lay them in salt and water three days, chang- 
ing the water every day ; then scoop a piece 
out of the bottom where the start grows ; then 
scoop out the core, the top of the apple re- 
maining to be left whole. Then put into each 
codling I teaspoonful of mustard, made as you 
eat it, 2 small bits of ginger, a clove of garlick, 
and a real clove. Then put in the piece again 



1 89 

close, that was first taken out, and put them 
in a jar with pickle enough to cover them. 

To a. gallon of the best white vinegar put 
a pint of mustard made as above, i head of 
garlick, I oz. of ginger sliced, and as much 
whole pepper, and a handful of salt ; boil all 
these together for an hour. Pour this scalding 
hot upon the codlings three days together. 
They will be fit for use in six months, or 
sooner; should they be kept any time, it is 
essential that some fresh-made pickle should 
be poured over them. 



ISO 



To pidde Rnssiaii Cucumbers. 



(LATE LO&D STTART D£ ROTHESAY. ST. PETERSBURG.) 

To i6 quarts (^ water add i lb. 2 ozs. of 
salt, and let the salt and water boil, and 
then stand one day. Wash the cucumbers, 
cut some fennel and tarragon, and mix them 
with black currant lea\*es and whole oak leaves. 
Cover the outside of a cask with pitch, then 
in the inside put a layer of herbs and leaves, 
then a layer of cucumbers, and so on until the 
cask is full. Then pour in the salt water gently, 
close, and put a cover on the cask. 



191 



Chutnee. 

(given in EDINBURGH BY DR. CLARKSON, 

FORMERLY PHYSICIAN TO THE KING OF OUDE, 

TO LADY SARAH E. LINDSAY. 1 848.) 

I lb. of sour apples, 8 ozs. of coarse brown 
sugar, 4 ozs. of salt, 4 ozs. of the freshest raisins, 
i^ oz. of cayenne pepper, and i oz. of garlic. 
Each article to be separately bruised very fine, 
and then to be well mixed together, with a 
sufficient quantity of strong vinegar to make it 
of a proper consistency. 



192 



Indian Chutnee Sauce. 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

1 lb. of brown sugar, ^ lb. of salt, ^ lb. of 
powdered ginger, ^ lb. of raisins pounded fine, 
3 ozs. of garlic pounded fine, cayenne to your 
palate, 6 tablespoonfuls of English mustard ; 30 
large apples pared and cored ; stew them in half 
a cupful of water till tender ; when cold, mix 
all the ingredients with two bottles of vinegar, 
then simmer it over the fire until it becomes 
thick, strain it through a sieve, put it into wide- 
mouthed bottles, and cork tight with bladder 
over.^ 

* Of course less in proportion for a small family. S.E.L. 



193 



Tomato Chutnee. 

(tyttenhanger. ) 

2 lbs. of ripe tomatoes, i lb. of raisins, 4 ozs. 
of salt, I lb. of capsicums, 4 ozs. of preserved 
tamarinds, 3 ozs. of garlic, ^ oz. of ginger, 
2 teaspoonfuls of vinegar. The above to be 
separately pounded in a stone mortar. The 
tomatoes must be cut open, and the seeds 
and juice taken out and put away. The 
tomatoes to be pounded and rubbed through 
a sieve, then mixed with the other ingredients, 
to be put into glass bottles and well corked, 
and exposed to a gentle heat for two months. 



O 



194 



To pickle Walnuts to eat like Mangoes. 

(queen anne's royal cookery book.) ' 

Take green walnuts before the shell is 
grown to any hardness in them, pick them from 
the stalks, and put them into cold water, and 
set them on a gentle fire till the outward skin 
begins to peel off. Then put them into a tub 
or pot, and put water and salt to them, chang- 
ing once a day for ten or twelve days till the 
bitterness and discolouring of the water be 
gone. Then take a good quantity of mustard 
seed, and beat it with vinegar till it becomes 
coarse mustard ; some cloves of garlic and 
ginger ; make a hole in each nut, and put in a 



195 

little of this. Then take white wine (and white 
wine vinegar) and boil it together, and as you 
are going to take it off the fire, put in pepper, 
ginger, cloves, and some of the mustard and 
garlic according to your discretion. Then cover 
the kettle till they are cold, then put them 
into a jar, bottle, or well-glazed pot, and keep 
them under the liquor, close tied down with 
leather for your use. 



o 2 



196 



Pickled Cabbage. 

(old-fashioned recipe.) 

Take 2 large heads of red cabbage, and 
slice them in a large dish ; then salt them well, 
and let them remain three days, occasionally 
mixing them up. The third day put them in 
a sieve to drain, and when well drained, put 
as much vinegar as will cover them ; add to 
it ginger and 'white pepper, and boil the three 
together. Let it remain until quite cold, then 
put it on the cabbage, and it will be ready for 
use in a few days. 




197 



To keep Green Peas. 

(excellent old recipk) 

Shell and put them into a kettle of water ; 
when it boils, give them two or three turns 
only, and pour them into a cullender ; when 
the water drains off, turn them out on a dresser 
covered with a cloth, to dry properly. Then 
bottle them in wide-mouthed bottles, leaving 
room to pour clarified mutton suet upon them, 
an inch thick. Resin down the cork, and keep 
the bottles in a cellar. When they are to be 
used, boil the peas tender, with a bit of butter 
and a little mint. 



198 



I 



To keep Mushrooms. 

(late sir GEORGE WARRENDER.) 

Take a basket (almost ^ bushel) of mush- 
rooms, pick them very clean, wash them several 
times in water, and let them dry on a cloth. 
Put into a saucepan ^ lb. of butter, 3 lemons, 
and a little salt ; put your mushrooms into this 
saucoi>an, which must be placed upon a good fire. 
As soon as the mushrooms b^n to boil, take 
them off and put them into x-ery clean bottles, 
wyU a>rkcd, and tied down, to exclude the air ; 
then let ihem boil in boiling water for three- 
i^UAitei-^fi of An hour Be careful to let the bottles 
j>x^! eoUi bc<<Mx:^ taking them out of the water. 



199 



Easy Method of producing Mushrooms. 

(AMERICAN RECIPE.) 

If the water wherein mushrooms have been 
steeped or washed be poured upon an old bed, or 
the broken parts of mushrooms strewed thereon, 
there will speedily arise a great number of 
mushrooms. 



200 



Vegetable Salad. 

(countess of WARWICK.) 

l^ake a good carrot and turnip, cut them 
in very small dice ; then blanch them (carrot 
about ten minutes, turnip not so long). Take 
also a nice beetroot and 2 good potatoes ; cut 
and cook them in the same way ; keep each 
separate on a napkin until the time for serv- 
ing, then mix all lightly together in some very 
nicely flavoured tartar sauce. Garnish with 
hard-boiled eggs and beetroot, and serve; the 
garnish can be varied with tomatoes or aspic 
jelly. 



201 



Salad. 

(miss berry, friend of 
horace walpole, lord orford.) 

Tarragon, chervil, burnet, parsley, soupgon of 
onion, chopped very small ; about 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of this, and 3 hard-boiled eggs ; three 
times as much oil as vinegar, or good cream 
instead, a little water to mix the eggs, and stir 
up well ; put in lettuce, endive, mustard and 
cress, tarragon vinegar, and plenty of mustard. 



202 



Tomato Salad. 

(viscountess combermere.) 

Take 2 nice tomatoes, cut them into round 
slices, place on a plate, sprinkle some pounded 
sugar, a little pepper, a spoonful of olive oil, 
and a tablespoonful of best vinegar over the 
tomatoes, and ser\'e them up. 



203 



To keep Gooseberries or GrapeSi etc., 
to make Tarts all the Winter. 

(queen anne's royal cookery book.) 

Take these fruits when at the full growth, 
but not ripe, and put them in glass bottles, and 
cork them close, and tie them over with leather, 
close, that no air can come into them ; then set 
them in a cold cellar, and keep them for your 
own use. So you may keep cherries or 
damsons. 



204 



A Succession of Potatoes. 

(MR. 3«:rray, scotch gardener at 

METHLEY PARK. 1818.) 

I In the beginning of May, take a quantity 

of the lai^est ox noble potatoes, lay them on 
a dr}- chamber floor, and turn them over fre- 
quently in the course of the summer, rubbing 
off* all the sprouts as they appear. Towards 
the latter end of September have ready a few 
boxes ; at the bottom of each put six inches of 
decayed leaves, then lay on the potatoes close 
to each other ; then another layer of decayed 



205 

leaves, and another of the potatoes, until the 
box is full to the top. Set the boxes in some dry 
shed or chamber, and give no water ; they will 
be fine potatoes by December. Should succes- 
sion be required, have some more potatoes 
ready to be put in about November. 



206 



Management of Brussels Sprouts. 

(meneworth castle.) 

Sow the first time early in the spring ; the 
same at intervals of three weeks till mid- 
summer. Plant out the seedlings in beds or 
otherwise. Pinch off the tops of the plants 
a fortnight before the rosettes are ready to be 
gathered. Only a few crowns should be taken 
off each plant at a gathering, in order not to 
injure the plant. The smaller the crowns are, 
the better. They are ready at Brussels in 
August and September, and continue till April. 



207 

To restrain their tendency to flower in the 
spring they are taken up and transplanted, 
being laid slantwise in a north border, as 
brocoli or other greens are. 



208 



A rich White Sauce for cold Entries. 

(MRS. AUSON.) 

2 good tablespoonfuls of flour, and a pint of 
good white stock, in which put any trimmings 
of mushrooms, 2 bay leaves, and some sweet 
herbs ; reduce it one-third, pass it through a 
tammy, add to it a good spoonful of cream 
and a little tarragon vinegar ; do not make it 
hot after the vinegar is added. 




209 



Lobster Sauce. 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

The lobster should be chopped much 
smaller than is generally done, and the sauce 
should be composed of three parts cream to one 
of butter ; a little salt and slight infusion of 
cayenne pepper. The whole of the inside and 
coral should be beaten up with the cream 
and butter, and the lobster then put in. 



^ 



! 2IO 



Rich Brown Mushroom Sauce. 

(old recipe.) 

Having some stalks or parings of mush- 
rooms, put them in a stewpan with a little 
butter, shallot, savory, and parsley. Let them 
simmer half an hour in brown gravy, in which 
a little carrot has been put, then strain the gravy, 
and thicken it ready for use. 



211 



Badminton. 

(admiral sir e. inglefield.) 

Bottle oi vin ordinaire (Bordeaux), lO or 12 
lumps of sugar, a slice of cucumber paring or 
sprig of borage, a thin slice of lemon the whole 
length of the fruit, and a very little nutmeg. 
Just before use, when all well shaken up, add 
a bottle of soda water. 



p 2 



212 



Badminton. 

(another recipe, 
admiral sir e. inglefield.) 

I bottle of claret and 2 bottles of soda water, 
or less if ice is put in, one wineglass of brandy, a 
slice of lemon, and some borage. Sweeten to 
taste with lump sugar. To be iced for quite 
an hour before wanted. 



213 



Moselle Cup. 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

A bottle ot Moselle, ^ pint of sherry, peel 
of a lemon, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, bunch 
of borage, 3 leaves of verbena ; well iced. 



214 



Rich Orangeade. 

(CANADA. 1863.) 

Steep the yellow rinds of 6 China and 2 
Seville oranges in a quart of boiling water, 
closely covered up for five or six hours; then 
make a syrup with i lb. of sugar and 3 pints 
of water ; mix all together, press in the juice of 
a dozen China oranges and 2 Seville ones, 
from which the rind is to be taken ; stir the 
whole well together, and add a little orange- 
flower water ; 2 lemons may be used, but the 
flavour of the oranges must predominate. 



215 



Orgeat. 

(old recipe.) 

Take a pound of sweet almonds, blanched in 
cold water ; pound them well ; likewise a few 
bitter almonds done the same. While pound- 
ing, by degrees pour 2 quarts of spring water 
in which lemon peel has been steeped, and 
sugar to your taste ; mix all well together, and 
strain through a flannel bag. 



2l6 




Orgeat Paste. 

(CANADA. T863.) 

Blanched and powdered almonds, 3 lbs. ; 
blanched and powdered bitter almonds, i lb. or 
less ; powdered loaf sugar, 3 lbs. ; orange-flower 
water to mix. Beat them in a mortar to a 
stifif paste, then put them in pots. When 
wanted for use, put a little into some water, 
mix, and strain through a bit of gauze. 



217 



Orange Bitters. 

(from an old MS. BOOK, 160O, AT EAST HAMPSTEAD. 
DOWAGER MARCHIONESS OF DOWNSHIRE.) 

Peel of 24 Seville oranges, ^ oz. of nutmeg 
and cochineal, and snake grass, i oz. gentian 
root, I handful camomile flowers, J oz. saffron, 
i oz. zideary root.^ Bruise all these, put 
them into 2 quart bottles, and fill up with best 
brandy. Let the bitters stand three weeks, and 
shake every day. 

* Herbalists have the two ingredients mentioned, snake 
grass and zideary root. 



21 1 



Ginger CordiaL 

(iHk kkV. GODFKEY ALEXANDER.) 



'lo every pound of ripe white currants, 
plrkctd from the stalks and well bruised, add 
I <|Uiirt of the best white brandy and the rind 
of IX Idinon. Stand five or six days, then strain, 
Hiul In i*Vfry ((uart add i lb. of lump sugar 
powilwrc^cl fine, and i oz. of white ginger 
piimulinl Let all stand again a night or two, 
\\w\\ ^\\m\ and boUle. If too strong, add more 
Ivuit A very few bitter almonds improve the 
iiMilial 



219 



Barley Water. 

Excellent 
(HON. LADY STUART.) 

3 Spoonfuls of pearl barley, the rind of a 
lemon peeled very thin, a quart of boiling 
water poured over it, and a little fine sugar ; 
cover it up close till cool, then pour it off. 



/ 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Adelaide sandwiches 73 

Amber pudding, Welsh 55 

Anchovies, Spanish recipe for 145 

Anchovy butter 146 

Apples k la Frangipane 50 

Aspic jelly 180 



Baba 47 

Badminton 211 

Badminton (another recipe) 212 

Bakewell pudding 56 

Barley water 219 

Bayonne method of curing hams . . . 65 

Beef, pressed 69 

Beef-steak pudding . . . . . 80 

Biscuits, brown bread 45 

Biscuit glac^ 17 

Biscuits, thin 44 



222 

PAGE 

Bitters, orange 217 

Boorgoo 147 

Bouch^es des cervelles 160 

Bouch^es k la Morglas 167 

Boudin de volaille AUemande 158 

Brawn, ox cheek * • 75 

Bread cake 39 

Bread, to make, with German yeast ... 34 

Bread, Queen Anne's French 37 

Breakfast cakes or rolls 35 

Brocon soup 97 

Broth, barley 116 

Broth, mutton no 

Broth, strong savoury 106 

Brussels sprouts, management of . . . . 206 

Buns, Richmond saffron 36 

Butter, anchovy 146 

Butter, green 143 

Butter, Spanish 144 



Cabbage, pickled 196 

Cake, to make a good 40 

Cake, ice for 41 

Cake, saffron 46 

Cake, sponge ........ 48 

Cakes or rolls, breakfast 35 

Cakes, small 49 



223 

PAGE 

Calf's head pie ^^ 

Capuchin sauce 8 1 

Caramel Cream 23 

Carotte k la Flamande 1 79 

Cervelles, bouchdes des 160 

Charter pie 76 

Cheese cakes, lemon 58 

Cheese, Cayenne 142 

Cheese puffs 121 

Cheese soup k la Bibron 96 

Cheese straws 122 

Chestnuts, compote of 26 

Chestnuts, German way of roasting a fowl with . 174 

Chicken soup . . 109 

Chiffonade, potage ....... 99 

Chigwell or German puddings 54 

Chocolate cream 15 

Chocolate, to make 3 

Chocolate pudding 22 

Chutnee ... 191 

Chutnee sauce, Indian 192 

Chutnee, tomato 193 

Clear soup with omelette 100 

Cock-a-leekie 104 

Cocoa from the nibs i 

Codlings, to pickle 188 

Cod's head soup (brown) 91 

Coffee, to make 4 



224 

PAGB 

Collops, excellent Scotch 165 

Cordial, ginger 218 

Cream, clotted 29 

Cream, custard 20 

Cream, Devonshire 28 

Cream, filbert ice 18 

Cream, lemon * 16 

Cream, method of increasing the quantity of . . 30 

Cream, orange 19 

Cream, Russian 21 

Cream, tea 27 

Cream and wafers 24 

Cr^me de tapioca 93 

Croquettes, potato . * 129 

Croustades k la Reine 168 

Cucumbers, Russian, to pickle 190 

Currants, sugared 11 

Curried spinach 138 

Curry, Lord Clivers 139 

Custard, iced, with fruit 25 

Cutlets, chicken 166 

Cutlets, haricot mutton 162 

Cutlets h. la Reform 163 

Cutlets, sauce for 164 



DampfNudels 61 

Deer horns, jelly from 181 



225 

PAGE ! 

Devonshire cream 28 ; 

Dolma 151 

Dolma of vine leaves 152 ! 

Dressed eggs 185 

I 

I 

I 
I 

Eastern cookery : 

Boorgoo 147 : 

Dolma 151 ' 

Dolma of vine leaves 152 

Kebab 148 

Kebab, Tengdrd 1 50 

Keihma 155 ' 

Keinftd 154 j 

Tomato patties 153 \ 

Eggfs, to broil 187 1 

Eggs, dressed 185 

Egg sandwiches 186 

Eggs and tomatoes 1 84 



Faisan k la Tregothran 173 

Filbert ice cream ,18 

Fish, Indian fashion 70 

Fish soup (white) . 89 

Fowl, German way of roasting 174 

Frangipane, apples k la 50 

Fritters, vine-leaf 63 

Fruit with iced custard 25 

Q 



t 



236 

Gentian or Chigwell puddings 54 

German pudding, plain . ■ 5 ' 

German or Spanish pufis 64 

Geiman way of roasting fowl 1 74 

German yeast 32 

Gingerbread nuts . . ... - 42 

Ginger cordial 218 

Gooseberries or grapes, to keep .... 203 

Gooseberrj- fool 31 

Green asparagus soup 94 

Green butter 143 

Green peas, to keep 197 

Groseilles de Bar 5 

Grouse souffle 1 19 

Ham, a way of cooking 67 

Hams, Bayonne method of curing .... 65 

Ham pancakes 140 

Haricot mutton cutlets 162 

Hindoo relish . 123 

Hotch-potch 114 

Ice for a cake 41 

Iced custard with fruit 25 

Indian chulnee sauce 192 

Imperial yeast 32 

Italian stewed rice 125 



227 

PAGE 

Jelly, aspic . i8o 

Jelly from deer horns i8i 

Jelly, orange 12 

Jelly, mountain ash berry . . . #. . 14 



Kebab 148 

Kebab, Teng^rd . . . . . . 150 

Keihma 155 

Keinftd 154 

Kippered salmon 68 



Larks, to roast with bacon 170 

Lemon cheese cakes 58 

Lemon cream (the old Llanover) . . . . 16 

Lobster sauce 209 

Louisa pudding 59 

Macaroni pudding 134 

Marmalade, orange 7 

Mayonnaise 137 

Mayonnaise sauce 86 

Melon, to preserve 9 

Milanaise, risotto k la 1 24 

Mock turtle soup 1 1 1 

Mock turtle soup, clear 112 

Morglas, bouch^es k la 167 



/ 



228 

PAGE 

Moselle cup 213 

Mountain ash berry jelly 14 

Mousse de volaille 1 56 

Mushroofci omelette 178 

Mushrooms, to keep . 198 

Mushrooms, easy method of producing . . .199 

Mushroom sauce 210 

Mutton broth no 

Mutton cutlets, haricot 162 



(Eufs k la Lady Evelyn 183 

Omelette, clear soup with 100 

Omelette for soup loi 

Omelette, mushroom 178 

Orangeade, rich 214 

Orange bitters 217 

Orange cream 19 

Orange-flower syrup 10 

Orange jelly ,12 

Orange marmalade 7 

Orgeat 215 

Orgeat paste 216 

Ox cheek brawn 75 



Pancakes, ham 140 

Parmesan, souffle de 120 



229 

PAGB 

Partridges h. la Sierra Morena 171 

Pit^s, veal 135 

Patties, tomato 153 

Peas, green, to keep 197 

Peas, old, to stew 128 

Persian recipe for boiling rice 126 

Petits pois h. la demi-bourgeoise . . . . 127 

Petits souffles h la Frangaise 52 

Piemontese tartlets 136 

Pie, calf s head 77 

Pie, charter 76 

Pie, pigeon 78 

Pie, Roman 79 

Pomme de terre souffle .132 

Pork, to roast a leg of 176 

Potage chiflfonade 99 

Potage k la Reine 102 

Potato chips t . 131 

Potato croquettes 129 

Potatoes k la Lyonnaise 130 

Potatoes, a succession of 204 

Pressed beef 69 

Pudding, Bakewell 56 

Pudding, beef-steak 80 

Pudding, chocolate 22 

Puddings, German or Chigwell .... 54 

Pudding, German, plain 51 

Pudding, the Louisa 59 



230 

PAGE 

Pudding, irfacaroni 134 

Pudding, plum 57 

Pudding, Welsh amber 55 

Pudding k la Richelieu 182 

Puffs, cheese 121 

Puffs, German or Spanish . . < . . 64 



Queen Anne's French bread 37 



Rarebit, Welsh 141 

Relish, Hindoo 123 

Rice, Italian stewed 125 

Rice, Persian recipe for boiling 126 

Richmond saffron buns 36 

Richelieu, pudding k la 182 

Rich orangeade 214 

Risotto k la Milanaise 124 

Rolls or breakfast cakes 35 

Roman pie 79 

Riisks 43 

Russian cream 21 



Saffron buns, Richmond 36 

Saffron cake 46 

Salad 201 



231 



Salad, tomato 

Salad, vegetable 

Salmon, kippered 

Sandwiches, Adelaide 

Sandwiches, egg . 

Sandwiches, small roll 

Sauce, capuchin . 

Sauce for cutlets k la Reform . 

Sauce, Indian chutnee 

Sauce, lobster . . . , 

Sauce, mayonnaise 

Sauce, rich brown mushroom . 

Sauce, rich white 

Sauce, tartar . 

Sauce, tomato 

Sauce, vinaigrette . 

Sauce for wild duck . 

Savoury vermicelli . 

Scotch collops, excellent 

Small cakes 

Souch^, water 

Souffld, grouse . 

Souffle de Parmesan . 

Souffle, pomme de terre . 

Souffle, savoury . 

Souffles, petits, k la Frangaise 

Soup (cheese) k la Bibron . 

Soup, brocon . 



PAGE 

202 

200 

68 

73 
1 86 

72 

8i 

163 

192 

209 

86 

210 

208 

85 
82 

84 

83 

177 
165 

49 
105 

119 

120 

132 
118 

52 
96 

97 



232 

PAGE 

Soup, chicken 109 

Soup, clear mock turtle 112 

Soup, clear, with omelette 100 

Soup, cod's head (brown) 91 

Soup, fish (white) 89 

Soup h la Flamande 95 

Soup, green asparagus 94 

Soup, mock turtle 1 1 1 

Soup, omelette for loi 

Soup k la Reine ... ... 103 

Soup with sago 88 

Soup, white (with herbs) 87 

Soupe k la bonne femme 108 

Spanish butter 144 

Spanish recipe for anchovies 145 

Spinach, curried 138 

Sponge cake 48 

Stewed rice, Italian 125 

Strawberries, to preserve whole 13 

Straws, cheese 122 

Strong savoury broth 106 

Sugared currants 11 

Suprtoe de volaille 161 

Syrup, orange-flower 10 



Tapioca, creme de 93 

Tartar sauce 85 



233 

Tartlets, Piemontese . 

Tea cream .... 

Timbales k la Parisienne . 

Tomato chutnee 

Tomatoes and eggs 

Tomato patties 

Tomato salad 

Tomato sauce .... 



Vealpit^s 135 

Vegetable salad 200 

Vermicelli, savoury 177 

Vinaigrette sauce 84 

Vine-leaf fritters ........ 63 

Vine leaves, dolma of 152 

Volaille, supr&ne de 161 



Wafers and cream 24 

Walnuts, to pickle like mangoes 194 

Water souche 105 

Way of cooking a ham 5? 

Welsh amber pudding 55 

Welsh rarebit ' 141 

White sauce, rich 308 



234 



White soup with herbs 
White soup with sago 
Wild duck, sauce for . 



FAGK 

87 
88 

83 



Yeast, imperial 



32 



LONDON : PRINTED BY 

SI'OTTISWOOI>K AND CO., NEW-STREKT SQUARK 

AND PARLIAMENT STREET 



I 



i 



* 

4 



i 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



CHOICE RECIPES 



r-" 



LONDON : PRINTED BY 

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE 

AND PARLIAMENT STREET 



A FEW 


@ 1)0 ice Uiccipcr. 


COLLECTED BY 


LADY SARAH LINDSAY 


4on^ou 


RICHARD BENTLEY & SON, NEW BURLINGTON STREET 


llnbUi^tit in «tU=-azi to Jii ^^ulfi t^t Qnmi 


1883 



■Ux^1^^*i<5'5^ 



HARVAID COLLEGE LIBRARY 

BEQUEST OF 
MM, CHESTER M. GREENOUfiH <^ 

SEPTEMBER 20, 1S26 |'^' 



Kv 



d-  






PREFACE. 



Having collected, by permission, these 
Recipes from manuscript books of my family 
and friends (several given by epicures well 
known in former days), I can vouch for their 
being authentic. I have added one or two from 

* Queen Anne's Royal Cookery Book,' which 
are quaint, and a few very excellent ones from 

* Mrs. Hale's Recipes,' published in Philadelphia ; 
also some entitled 'Eastern Cookery,' given 
by a lady* If my little work proves successful 



VI 



in aiding the charity to which I intend to 
give the proceeds, I may feel encouraged 
to publish a collection of useful recipes of 
various kinds — some of them given to me 
in Canada a few years ago, which, from 
my own experience, I have found really valu- 
able. 




January 1 883. 



r 



CHOICE RECIPES. 



-•o*- 



For making Cocoa from the Nibs. 

(HON. MRS. ELIOT YORKE, SEN.) 



Put four tablespoonfuls of the cocoa nibs 
into a stewpan of cold water (about a quart), 
and an egg-shell ; let them simmer very gently 
for four hours. Then pass through a hair 
sieve into a separate basin. Put the nibs back 
into the stewpan with a quart more cold water, 
and let them simmer gently for three hours ; 
then strain through the sieve, as before, to 

B 



the first quantity. Next morning let the cocoa 
boil gently for two hours before sending it up. 

Be very particular to put the nibs into cold 
water, and let them simmer, not boil : boiling 
quickly, even five minutes, makes the colour 
brown, and extracts the bitter flavour of the 
nibs. 



To make Chocolate. 

(MRS. COSTELLO, OF CADIZ.) 

The best chocolate is not sweet, being made 
entirely of cocoa: it is to inferior kinds that 
much sugar is put i oz. or small square 
of a cake is used to a small coffee-cup of water 
or milk, and should be very well mixed. 



B 2 



To make Coffee. 

(lady INGLEFIELD.) 

For four or five persons, put i lb. of coffee 
into a kitchen earthenware bowl, break a raw 
egg into it, and then pour some boiling water 
over. Let it stand by the fire, pour it through 
a piece of muslin, and it will be beautifully 
clear. When there is less coffee you will not 
require a whole egg. Send up in a silver 
coffee-pot or china one, quite hot. 



5 



Groseilles de Bar (Bar-le-Duc). 

An Excellent Preserve, 
(lady STUART DE ROTHESAY.) 

Take the finest currants you can procure, 
take out the seeds with a pen or quill, weigh 
the fruit, and to every pound of fruit allow 
1 1 lb. of fine sugar ; clarify it, and boil it to the 
crack. Put in your currants while boiling, and 
boil them for five minutes ; take them off, let 
them stand five minutes, skim, put them on 
again, and do this twice more. Then put them 
into a shallow dish, and let them stand until 
the next day. Then with a pierced spoon take 
out the currants and put them into well-dried 



pots ; boil up the syrup, and pour it boiling hot 
on the currants. Do not fill the pots quite full, 
and reserve some of the syrup to fill up the 
pots when cold : without this precaution they 
will not keep. Do not tie them down for two 
or three days. 



Orange Marmalade. 

(MRS. HAMILTON HAMILTON. 
AS MADE AT HAMILTON PALACE. 1 838.) 



Put on 25 or SO oranges to boil ; let them 
boil till they can be pierced with a skewer, 
then take them out and cut them, taking out 
all the seeds and inner skins and fibres. To 
every pound of oranges put 2 lbs. of sugar and 
I pint of water ; boil for more than an hour, or 
as much longer as may be necessary to reduce 
to a proper consistency for keeping. 

The oranges must be picked ones. March 
is the best time to make the marmalade. 



The oranges should be boiled early in the 
morning, so that the marmalade may be finished 
and potted by night ; they should be covered 
in a few days, and the paper should be covered 
with white of egg, not brandy. 



To preserve Melon. 

(MRS. WATTS, HOUSEKEEPER TO ELIZABETH, COUNTESS 
OF HARDWICKE. WIMPOLE. 1825.) 

Cut and pare a thoroughly ripe melon into 
thick slices. Put them into water, and let them 
remain some days ; then put the slices into fresh 
water, and set them over the fire to coddle (but 
not boil, for that would spoil them). Make a 
good syrup, and when properly skimmed and 
boiled put your melon in until it is cold. The 
last time the syrup is boiled put it into a muslin 
bag, and i oz. of ginger, which is to be left with 
the melon and the juice of 2 lemons, with a little 
lemon peel. If a large melon, add more ginger 
and more lemon peel. 



10 



Orange-flower Syrup. 

(lady STUART DE ROTHESAY. 
BRITISH EMBASSY, PARIS. 183O.) 

Make a good syrup (the same as for other 
things) ; when almost boiled enough add orange 
flowers in the proportion of one-third of the 
quantity of sugar. Give it a good boil ; take it 
off the fire, and let it settle, then put it on 
again. Do so three times ; take out the flowers 
entirely, leave the syrup in the pan till nearly 
cold, and then bottle it. 



II 



Sugared Currants. 

(countess dowager of verulam.) 

Take the white of i egg; beat it as for 
whipped eggs, put it into ^ pint of cold water, 
strain it, and have ready some double-refined 
sugar made quite hot in a pan. Dip the 
currants in the water, then in the sugar ; put 
them in a sieve to dry ; then dish them up. 



12 



Orange Jelly. 

(late HON. MRS. HUGH LINDSAY.) 

To every pound of Seville oranges put 2 
pints of water. Cut the oranges in pieces, picking 
out the seeds. Let them boil slowly till quite 
tender, and strain through a jelly bag ; and to 
every pint add i lb. of sugar, and boil it for at 
least twenty minutes, A lemon or two cut up 
with the orange will add much to the flavour of 
the jelly. 



13 



To preserve Strawberries whole. 

(methley park. 1840.) 

Make choice of the large scarlet, or any 
other fine ones. They must not be too ripe. 
To every pound of fruit put | lb. of pounded 
sugar. Spread the strawberries on a dish, and 
put rather more than half the pounded sugar 
over them, shaking the dish as you do it, that 
the under strawberries may equally get the 
sugar ; and instead of water add i lb. of red 
currant juice. Simmer the strawberries until 
sufficiently jellied. 



H 



Mountain Ash Berry Jelly. 

(scotch recipe.) 

Gather the berries in September, when they 
are of a fine red and juicy. To 2 quarts of 
berries put 3 quarts of water. Boil them till one- 
half of the water is boiled away. To each pint 
of juice add i lb. of loaf sugar, well broken ; 
when it comes to a boil take off any scum that 
rises ; let it boil half an hour ; fill small cups 
with it, and do not put paper over it for two or 
three days. (This jelly may be used for venison : 
the bitter of the ash berry is much approved.) 



J 



15 



Chocolate Cream. 

(lady ARTHUR HALL.) 

Boil I pint of milk, and add I oz. of cake of 
chocolate grated. When boiling add a three- 
penny packet of gelatine, soaked in a little milk ; 
when cool add yolks of 2 eggs well beaten. Stir 
occasionally till it thickens, which it will not do 
until quite cold ; then pour into a mould. 



i6 



The Old Llanover Lemon Cream. 

(original recipe. lady LLANOVER- 1 882.) 

I quart of new milk or cream, juice of 2 
lemons, ^ lb. of sugar, rind of i lemon grated 
fine. Whip it well, take off the froth by degrees, 
and lay it on a hair sieve. It must stand in a 
cool place till next day. More than half fill the 
glasses with the thin part ; heap up the froth 
above the glass. It will keep at least two or 
three days. 



17 



Biscuit Glac6. 

(MISS GAPE, MANOR, ST. ALBANS.) 

Bruise about half a stick of vanille, and put 
it on the fire with ^ pint of good cream. Let it 
boil, then take it off, and when about milk- warm 
add the yolk of an egg, and whisk it until cold. 
Have ready some sponge cakes or biscuits ' 
crumbled fine and quite dry. Mix it with the 
custard pretty thick, and then put it into small 
paper cases ; sprinkle some dry crumbs over 
the top, then put them into an ice case, and 
cover them over with ice and salt. Let them 
remain three hours, and then they will be 
ready for the table. 



i8 



Filbert Ice Cream. 

(new YORK RECIPE.) 

To I quart of cream add i lb. of nuts, 12 oz. 
of sugar, or i pint of syrup. Break the nuts 
and roast the kernels in the oven ; when done, 
pound them with a little cream and make a 
custard ; then mix, and finish by freezing. 



19 



Orange Cream. 

(from a recipe dated 1768.) 

Take 4 oranges, and grate the peel into a 
pint of water ; then squeeze the juice in also ; 
beat the yolks of 4 eggs and put them into the 
water ; sweeten it to your taste with double- 
refined sugar ; strain it and set it on the fire, stir 
all one way till it is as thick as cream, and put 
it into your glasses or mould. 



c 2 



20 






Custard Cream. 






Fcr Six Persons, 






(HON. MISS FERRIS, BATH.) 




1 


8 yolks of eggs and 4 whites, a 


glass 


of 


sherry, and a tablespoonful of sugar. 


Whip 


up 


the eggs with the sugar and sherry ; 


pour 


li 


pint of boiled milk over it ; then 


cover 


a 


mould with burnt sugar, put it in a 


pan with 


a little water, and then into the oven. 







21 



Russian Cream. 

(lady inglefield.) 

Beat to a very stiff froth the whites of 2 
eggs ; add nearly i lb. of powdered sugar, and a 
little lemon juice. Lay this mixture on paper 
in hollow circles ; bake or dry it in a warm and 
slow oven ; when done, beat up nearly i pint of 
thick cream, flavoured with vanille and sugar to 
taste, and fill the circles with it. 



Chocolate Pudding. 

(lady inclefield.) 

Boil I oz. of isinglass in l quart of milk 
and 6d. worth of cream ; add sugar according 
to taste ; scrape J lb. of vanille chocolate quite 
fine, divide the liquid, and boil the chocolate in 
the remaining half. When quite smooth strain 
and put it in a mould ; put it on ice ; when set, 
add white liquid, which flavour with vanille ; 
add whipped cream for sauce. 



23 



Caramel Cream. 

(lady inglefield.) 

Take a plain mould ; put in a handful of 
pounded sugar ; burn the sugar with a poker 
till lightly glazed ; put it to cool. Make a 
custard with 8 eggs, I pint of cream, and rind 
of I lemon ; sweeten to taste ; flavour . with a 
little brandy. Put all in the mould in a stew- 
pan, and place it on the side of the stove till 
set, then let it cool. 



24 



Wafers and Cream. 

(miss gape, manor, ST. ALBANS.) 

Fix round a side dish some glazed wafers, 
so as to form a wall ; fasten them to the dish 
and to each other with a little burnt sugar, 
taking care not to let the sugar appear outside 
the wall of wafers. Fill the inside with pulped 
fruit or marmalade, and cover the top with 
whipped cream, which should be thick like 
Italian cheese. Do not let the cream cover the 
tops of the wafers, as it would make them 
soft and destroy the neatness of the dish. 



25 



Iced Custard with Fruit. 

(brickhill manor.) 

One pint of boiling cream (flavoured witli 
any liqueur to your taste) ; add it when 
boiling to the yolks of 12 eggs well beaten and 
strained ; add likewise J oz. of isinglciss dis- 
solved and clarified ; whisk it until nearly cold. 
Have ready a mould masked wi,th preserved 
fruits ; set the mould in ice, and pour some of 
the custard in it about three inches high ; then 
throw in the trimmings of the fruit, chopped 
very fine. When set, add more custard, con- 
tinuing to do so until the mould is full ; let it 
stand in ice at least five hours before wanted. 



Compote of Chestnuts. 

(ladv inglefield.) 

Scald about 20 chestnuts, and peel them 
while hot ; boil J lb. of loaf sugar to a thick 
syrup ; put the chestnuts into the syrup and 
boil till quite soft, keeping them well stirred. 
Add two tablespoon fuls of brandy, and vanille 
to taste. Then pass them through a wire 
sieve, and dry them in front of the fire till crisp. 
Have ready a good thick whip of cream ; put a 
layer of cream, then a layer of chestnuts ; build 
up neatlv. Garnish with oreserved orange or 
oth 



27 



Tea Cream. 

(old recipe.) 



Boil i^ pint of cream with i^ oz. of green 
tea and a little sugar. When boiled, rub 
thoroughly through a sieve ; add 2 oz. of 
melted isinglass. Put into a mould, and place 
it in ice. 



Devonshire Cream. 

(late lady AD0LPHU5 DALRYMPLE.) 

A small tin milk-pan containing 3 pints 
of milk to stand twenty-four hours ; then put 
the pan on a stove till quite hot, but not boiling. 
When the cream wreathes over the top it is 
done enough. Take it off and let it stand for 
twelve hours ; then skim off the cream and send 
it to table. 



29 



Directions for Clotted Cream. 

(given to ANNE, COUNTESS OF MEXBOROUGH. 1848.) 

Put ID or 12 quarts of new milk into a 
broad, shallow pan (either of earthenware, iron, 
or brass well tinned). In summer let it stand 
eight hours, in winter twenty-four hours, to 
allow the cream to rise to the surface. Then 
place it over a small clear fire of wood or 
charcoal, and allow it to remain until scalding 
hot, but on no account to boil. This generally 
occupies an hour. It should be allowed to 
stand twelve hours in summer, and twenty-four 
hours in winter, and may then be used. 



30 



Method of increasing the Quantity 

of Cream. 

(methley dairy. 1843.) 

Put two pans in boiling water ; take out the 
hot pans, put the milk into one of them and 
cover it with the other. This will occasion, in 
the usual time, a great augmentation of thick- 
ness and quantity of cream. 



"'!•"»■.—*!"■■*■ 



31 



To make a Gooseberry Fool the best way. 

(queen anne's royal cookery book.) 

Take a quart of gooseberries and scald them 
tender, and drain them well from the water 
through a cullender, and with the back of a 
spoon force all the best part of them through 
the cullender ; and then take a quart or 3 
pints of new cream, and also 6 eggs, yolks 
and whites, and add them to the cream ; some 
rose water and sugar, and sweeten according to 
your palate. Set all on a gentle fire, and stir it 
till you see it of a good thickness. Then take 
it off and cool it a little, put it into white 
earthen cream bowls, and when it is cold serve 
it to the table. 



32 



To make German or Imperial Yeast. 

(late lady dalrymple.) 

To 4^ lbs. of malt add ijoz. of hops. Put 
the malt into an earthen jar, and pour i 
gallon of boiling water upon it ; let it stand 
three hours, then pass the liquor through 
a sieve, squeezing the malt very dry ; put the 
malt back again into the jar, and pour another 
gallon of boiling water upon it, letting it stand 
three hours as before. Boil the hops in 2 
quarts of water for one hour, until reduced to 
I quart ; then pass through a sieve into the 
liquor which came off the malt the first time ; 
the liquor must be put on boiling hot from 
the hops. 



33 

When the liquor put on the malt for the 
last time has stood three hours, then strain 
it altogether into one vessel, and put i pint 
of imperial barm into it. Have some clean 
bottles dry and ready, and bottle it directly, 
tying down the corks to prevent its flying. It 
will be ready for use in twenty-four hours, and 
if put into a cool place, it will keep good for 
six weeks. In making the imperial yeast the 
first time, you must of course get a pint of very 
good barm, not bitter, but afterwards you will 
always have a pint of your own that is good 
and not bitter, as this imperial yeast is never 
bitter unless it is carelessly made or drawn off 
too near the bottom of the hops. 



D 



34 



To make Bread with this Yeast. 

To 3 stone of seconds flour put a bare 
pint of yeast — more would spoil it. Lay the 
bread at nine o'clock at night, and make it 
up at seven in the morning. It must be in 
the oven three hours after. The water it is 
made with must be rather warmer than when 
common yeast is used, but not so hot as to 
scald the flour. It must stand ten hours in 
the sponge, and three hours after kneading, 
making thirteen hours altogether. It requires 
nothing but attention to the foregoing recipe 
to succeed perfectly. An old woman in a 
remote country parish made the yeast for years 
with the greatest success, and all her neigh- 
bours made their bread with it. 



35 



Rolls or Breakfast Cakes. 

(HON. MISS JERVIS, BATH.) 

Warm i oz. of butter in a pint of new milk ; 
add 2 spoonfuls of small beer yeast, and the yolk 
of I or 2 eggs well beaten and mixed with 2 lbs. 
of flour. It should rise before the fire one hour ; 
then make it into rolls or breakfast cakes. 
Twenty minutes will bake them in an oven by 
the fire, and fifteen minutes in a bread oven. 
They make good buns by* adding a little sugar 
and a few currants ; some use more butter, but 
4 ozs. would be too much. 



D 2 



36 



Richmond SafTron Buns. 

(lady VERE BERTIE. 1 768.) 

2 lbs. of flour, J lb. of butter, J lb. of moist 
sugar ; rub them well together ; take 2 spoon- 
fuls of yeast, and set to rise with a little warm 
milk for half an hour. Take ^ oz. of saffron 
cut as small as possible ; put it in the rest 
of your milk, beat them up warm, and allow 
them one hour to rise before baking. Bake in 
a quick oven. 



37 



Queen Anne's French Bread. 

(queen anne's royal cookery book.) 

To 2 quarts of fine flour, and ^ pint of ale 
yeast, i^ pint of new milk warmed. Put the 
yeast into the milk and half a spoonful of salt, 
and stir it together, and strain it through a hair 
sieve into the flour, and make it into a little 
paste not kneaded, but work it gently with 
your hand ; then warm a linen or woollen cloth 
very hot, and lay upon your paste, and set it to 
warm by the fire to rise for half an hour ; then 
work it up lightly with your hand again, and 
have some wooden dishes warmed, and pinch 
off little pieces as big as a turkey's egg ; flour 



38 

your dishes, and put into every dish a piece of 
it, and cover it down warm, and let it stand by 
the fire a quarter of an hour ; then half an hour 
bakes it in a pretty quick oven : while it is hot 
chip it. 



39 



Bread Cake. 

(lady tweedmouth.) 

I lb. of flour, ^ lb. of butter, ^ lb. of sugar, 
2 eggs, 6 ozs. of sultanas, i oz. of German 
yeast, and ^ pint of milk. Make a sponge with 
half the flour, J pint of milk, and i oz. of 
German yeast. Let it rise for twenty minutes ; 
then break the 2 eggs into the sponge and add 
the butter. Beat it all up and work in the 
rest of the flour, the sugar, and sultanas. Fill 
your moulds with the mixture, and let it rise 
again for twenty minutes ; then bake for three- 
quarters of an hour in a sharp oven. This 
quantity will make two good-sized luncheon 
cakes. 



40 



To make a good Cake, 

* As Sir K, D.^s Housekeeper made for him.^ 

(queen anne*s royal cookery book.) 

Take 4 quarts of fine flour, 2^ lbs. of butter, 
I lb. of sugar, i lb. of almonds finely beaten, 
\ pint of sack, I pint of good ale yeast, i pint 
of boiling cream, 12 yolks, 4 whites of eggs, and 
4 lbs. of currants. When you have wrought 
all these into a fine paste, let it be kept warm 
by the fire half an hour before you set it in the 
oven. If you please, you may put into it 2 lbs. 
of raisins of the sun, stoned and quartered. 



41 



The Ice for the Cake. 

(queen anne's royal cookery book.) 

Take the whites of 3 new-laid eggs, and 
I lb. of best sugar finely beaten with the whites 
of the eggs, and ice the cake. Let your oven 
be of a temperate heat, and let your cake stand 
therein two hours and a half before you ice it, 
and afterwards only to harden the ice. 



42 



Lord Bolingbroke's Recipe for Ginger- 
bread Nuts. 

(HON. MISS JERVIS, BATH.) 

I lb. of flour and ^ lb. of butter. Mix 
well together. Then add ^ lb. of sugar, J lb. 
of treacle, 2 ozs. of ginger, some cloves, and 
a wineglass of sweet wine ; make it up either 
in thin cakes or nuts. The ginger must be 
weighed before it is pounded, and the ginger- 
bread kept very dry. Half a citron cut in 
small pieces may be added. To be baked in a 
slow oven, and not hard. 



43 



Rusks. 

(HON. MISS JERVIS, BATH.) 

I pint of new milk, 4 ozs. of sugar, 2 eggs, 
5 ozs. of butter, i lb. of fine flour, and i table- 
spoonful of yeast Mix altogether for the 
sponge; let it stand half an hour in a warm 
place. Take i lb. 2 ozs. of flour and make into 
dough, which must stand an hour to rise. Make 
into little rolls. Bake twenty minutes in a hot 
oven, and when cold cut into slices and bake 
in the same way again. The rusks are excel- 
lent either with or without sugar for tea or 
dessert. 



44 



Thin Biscuits. 

Excellent 

(meneworth castle.) 

I lb. of flour, 2 ozs. of butter. Mix with 
a large jug of warm milk ; beat it with a 
rolling pin, and roll it out as thin as possible ; 
prick it and cut it out with a large saucer ; bake 
in a quick oven for two or three minutes. 



45 



Brown Bread Biscuits. 

(viscountess FALMOUTH.) 



I lb. of brown flour, J lb. of butter, ^ oz. of 
baking powder, and ^ pint of milk. 



46 



Saffron Cake. 

(meneworth castle.) 

4 lbs. flour, J lb. sultanas, | lb. butter, ^ lb. 
lard, 2 ozs. sugar, i oz. lemon peel candied, a 
pinch of saffron soaked in milk or water, half a 
tea-cup of yeast It must be wetted with milk 
or buttermilk, and covered with a cloth, before 
baking, till it rises. 



47 



Baba. 



(lady STUART DE ROTHESAY. 
BRITISH EMBASSY, PARIS. 183O.) 



To I oz. of flour add ^ lb. of stoned raisins, 
I lb. of butter, i oz. of sugar, 9 drops of saffron 
water, 6 eggs well beaten up, and a small quan- 
tity of salt. Take ^ lb. of flour and mix it with 
a tablespoonful of yeast and a little warm water. 
Put it to rise, then take the remainder of the 
flour, making a round hole in it, and add the 
rest of the ingredients. The butter must be 
squeezed to a cream before it is mixed with the 
leaven ; then mix all well together, and put it 
into a well-buttered mould. It must stand 
some time to rise in this before it is put into the 
oven to bake. 



48 



Sponge Cake. 

(miss gape, manor, ST. ALBANS.) 

Take the weight of 4 eggs, in their shells, in 
sugar, and half the weight in flour. Put the 
flour before the fire for twenty minutes, during 
which time, after breaking 4 eggs into the sugar, 
beat them up with a whisk ; shake the flour in, 
still stirring with a whisk ; put immediately into 
a slow oven, and bake half an hour. 



49 



Excellent small Cakes, 
which are much esteemed at Court. 

' The King himself hath eat of them.' 

(queen anne's royal cookery book.) 

Take 3 lbs. of very fine flour, i^ lb. of 
butter, and as much currants, and same of sugar ; 
7 eggs (one-half of the whites taken out), and 
knead all well together into a paste ; a little 
nutmeg grated, and a little rose water ; so make 
them up about the thickness of your hand, and 
bake them upon a plate of tin. 



so 



Apples k la Fraxigipane. 

(FRENCH RECIPE.) 

Let a pint of milk or cream, with lemon peel 
and a little cinnamon, simmer for half an hour. 
Put in another stewpan about 3 spoonfuls of 
fine flour and the milk, work it well over the 
fire. When nearly cold, add 3 or 4 whole eggs ; 
set by till cold. Have a dish well buttered, into 
which slice some apples. Put a small quantity 
of butter over them, then cover with apricot 
jam and the cream, a layer of each until the 
dish IS full ; the cream must be made rather 
sweet. Bake in a slow oven about three- 
quarters of an hour. 



SI 



Plain German Pudding. 

(lady ARTHUR HILL, DARMSTADT.) 

To I lb. of flour and ^ lb. of butter add 
3 eggs, I lb. of sugar, a little salt, and i table- 
spoonful of yeast. Make it into a thick paste 
with milk ; beat it for three-qu^irters of an hour, 
and then put it into a * shape,' which must be only- 
half filled. Set it near the fire till it has risen 
to the top of the shape, and then bake it a light 
brown. 



E 2 



52 



Petits Souffles k la Fran9aise. 

(late lord MONTAGU, DOUGLAS CASTLE.) 

Separate the yolks from the whites of 6 new- 
laid eggs ; put the whites into a clean pan or 
whipping bowl, and the yolks into a stewpan, 
to which add the juice of i lemon, the rind of 
2 finely grated, J lb. of fresh butter, and 3 ozs. 
of powdered sugar. Place the stewpan on the 
stove, and continue stirring the mixture until it 
thickens ; during this operation a second person 
should have whisked the whites till quite firm, 
which must then be added to the mixture in the 
stewpan ; you will have previously lined twelve 



S3 

tartlet pans. Fill with the souffle mixture. Bake 
in a moderate oven about twenty minutes. The 
mixture must not be prepared many minutes 
before boiling. 



54 



German or Chigwell Puddings. 

(commended by MR. BENJAMIN COUSENS.) 



i lb. of sugar, i lb. of flour, ^ pint of cream, 
i lb. of butter, and 3 eggs. The butter is to be 
melted in the cream, and the mixture to be 
baked twenty minutes in a quick oven in small 
cups or moulds. 



55 



Welsh Amber Pudding. 

(late lady DAVY.) 

To 6 ozs. of butter, melted over a slow fire, 
stir in 6 ozs. of finely powdered sugar, and after 
it is just boiled take it off, and in a few 
minutes stir in the yolks of 6 eggs, which 
have been well beaten. When cold, put it into 
a dish lined with paste, adding a little orange 
or lemon peel, and some ratafia. Let it be 
taken out of the oven a quarter of an hour 
before it is sent to table. 



56 



The Bakewell Pudding. 

(MRS. JOHNES KNIGHT. WELWYN. 1 839.) 

Take the yolks of 8 eggs and the whites 
of 3 ; beat them up with ^ lb. of melted 
butter and ^ lb. of fine sugar (a little orange- 
flower water is an improvement). Line the 
pan with puff paste, spreading on it some 
apricot jam or any other preserve, pour in the 
above mixture, and then bake. 



57 



Plum Pudding. 

(college recipe, CAMBRIDGE.) 

I lb. of plums, ^ lb. of suet, ^ lb. of flour, 
2 eggs, a little salt, and 2 ozs. of sugar. Boil 
seven hours. 



58 



Lemon Cheese Cakes. 

(MRS. SUTTON, 
HOUSEKEEPER, METHLEY PARK. 1842.) 

6 yolks of eggs, 4 whites of eggs, i lb. 
of white sugar sifted, 6 ozs. of fresh butter, 
The juice and grated rind of 3 lemons ; all 
to be well mixed and stirred over a slow fire, 
but not to boil. Bake in patty pans lined with 
sweet short paste. 



59 



The Louisa Pudding. 

(given by the late sir GEORGE WARRENDER 
TO LOUISA, MARCHIONESS OF WATERFORD.) 

Put ^ lb. of rice into cold water ; when it 
begins to boil, drain it through a sieve ; then 
put it into a stewpan with 4 ozs. of butter, 4 ozs. 
of sugar, a little salt, and a pint of milk. Place 
it on a moderate fire, and as soon as it boils put 
the stewpan on hot embers, and let it simmer 
an hour. Add 4 yolks and 2 whites of eggs. 
Butter a plain mould, and line with the rice 
whilst hot about an inch thick. Put it in a cool 
place, and just before serving fill with whipped 



6o 

cream, flavoured with vanille ; turn it on a dish 
and pour a marmalade sauce over. Before the 
cream is put in, dip the mould into warm water 
for a moment 



6i 



Dampf Nudels. 

(the queen dowager's cook. 1844.) 

For a dish mix three tablespoonfuls of 
German yeast with five of warm cream and 
I oz. of sugar. Mix that with i lb. of flour, and 
6 yolks of eggs one after the other ; work it 
well, and add 2 ozs. of butter nearly melted. 
Then put this paste into a warm place to rise ; 
when it has risen about an inch, put it on the 
table and cut pieces the size of an egg ; then 
let it rise again, and about twenty minutes 
before they are wanted, put them into a saut^ 
pan with about J pint of hot milk, a little 



62 



butter and sugar ; put them on the stove in a 
moderate fire ; the saut^ pan must be covered 
all the time. Send them up with a custard 
sauce. You must begin them an hour before 
they are wanted. 



63 



To make Vine-leaf Fritters. 

Excellent, 
(MRS. GLASSE. 1 747.) 

Take some of the smallest vine leaves you 
can get ; cut off the stalks, and put them in a 
dish with some green lemon rasped and a 
little sugar ; take a good handful of fine flour, 
mixed with a little white wine or ale. Let 
your butter be hot, and with a spoon drop in 
your batter. Take care the fritters do not stick 
to one another ; on each one lay a vine leaf, and 
fry them quickly, and strew a little sugar over 
them, and glaze with a red-hot shovel. 



64 



German or Spanish Puffs. 

(lady inglefield.) 

Put J lb. of fresh butter and a tea-cupful 
of water in a saucepan. When the butter is 
melted, stir in, while by the fire, 4 tablespoon- 
fuls of flour. When well mixed, put the in- 
gredients in a dish to cool ; then add 4 well- 
beaten-up eggs. Half fill some buttered small 
moulds with the mixture, and bake in a quick 
oven. Serve with clarified sugar or wine sauce ; 
or, when cold, cut them at the side and fill with 
vanille custard. Served up in a napkin. 



65 



Bayonne Method of Curing Hams. 

(lord POULETT sent AtL THE WAY TO BAYONNE 
TO LEARN THIS RECIPE, AND GAVE IT TO LORD 
STUART DE ROTHESAY.) 



I lb. of bay salt, 2 ozs. of saltpetre, ^ lb. 
of common salt, i oz. of black pepper. Beat 
these well together in a mortar, and rub it 
well into the hams. Let them He four days, 
turning over each day ; then put to the hams 
i^ lb. of treacle, and rub them well with it. 
Keep them in the above pickle one month, 
often turning and rubbing them with it. Then 
take them out, and soak them in cold water for 



66 

twenty-four hours, after which hang them up to 
dry and smoke them. Hams thus cured are 
not to be soaked before boiling beyond a very 
short time, and are to be put into the pot when 
the water boils. They should be two or three 
hours boiling, or rather simmering, according to 
the size of the ham. 



67 



A Way of Cooking a Ham. 

(lady SARAH LINDSAY.) 

Soak the ham for twelve hours in cold 
water ; then place it in a large pan with the re- 
mains of any broth or stock ; fill up with water ; 
add herbs, onions, carrots, and one parsnip. 
Cover over closely, and put the pan on a slow 
fire to stew for four hours. When the ham is 
taken out, insert half a glass of claret into it 
before glazing ; and after it has been cut open 
sprinkle a little more in it, which gives a red 
colour and good flavour. 



F 2 



68 



Kippered Salmon. 

(tyttenhanger. ) 

If the salmon is in pickle it will do very well. 
Take the fish out of the pickle, and leave it for 
a short time to drain ; then rub a very little 
brown sugar all over ; after that, as much 
ground black pepper as it will take up, and, if 
you please, a little cayenne. Put the fish on a 
board with a weight over it for thirty-six hours, 
and hang it up to dry. It ought to be cut in 
thin slices and put in buttered paper, and the 
least broil will do it. 



69 



Pressed Beef. 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

Bone a brisket of beef, rub it well with salt, 
saltpetre, and brown sugar ; let it remain for a 
few hours covered with this preparation. Make 
brine as follows : put some thyme, marjoram, 
basil, garlic, and bay-salt, with about i gallon of 
water ; add all the preparation which the meat 
is covered with, let it remain in pickle eight 
days ; be careful to turn the beef every day. 
When ready to cook, put it on to braise with all 
the trimmings of meat you may have about 
the larder ; it ought to simmer for seven hours. 



70 



Fishy Indian Fashion. 

(lady STUART DE ROTHESAY.) 

Take a crimped fresh haddock, boil it 
quickly with salt in the water to make it firm ; 
boil 2 eggs hard, and slice them into a sauce- 
pan ; then take the firmest pieces of the fish, 
and add them to the eggs. You must then 
have 4 tablespoonfuls of rice well washed and 
blanched, and afterwards boiled in good broth 
until it is done ; then strain the broth from 
it, if there is any left, and add to it the fish 
and eggs with a little salt, cayenne, and white 
pepper, and keep hot until it is wanted. Take 
a spoonful of good white sauce, which is 



71 

generally made with good chicken or veal broth 
reduced very thick, and add to it i teaspoonful 
of Indian curry powder, and half a tumbler of 
good thick cream ; boil it again four or five 
minutes, and pass it through a tammy over the 
fish ; mix the ingredients gently on the fire, and 
dish it up very hot. This dish requires to be 
well seasoned. It can be made also of turbot, 
soles, or any other firm fish, and by putting a 
garnish of filleted soles or whiting makes a very 
pretty dish. 



72 



Small Roll Sandwiches. 

(viscountess FALMOUTH.) 

Cut a circular piece oflf the top of each roll, 
and with the point of the knife remove the 
insides, and fill up with the following pre- 
paration : Cut up the breast of a roast or 
boiled fowl into small pieces, with half the 
quantity of ham or tongue, some chopped truf- 
fles, and small salad. Season with a little pep- 
per and salt, mixed together with some thick 
rich salad sauce. Fill the rolls with this pre- 
paration, replace the top,* and dish them up on 
a napkin. 



73 



Adelaide Sandwiches. 

(tYTTENH ANGER. ) 



Cut the breast of a fowl or pheasant, or a 
slice of veal, beef, or mutton, in very small 
dice ; wash 4 anchovies, and cut them into dice, 
and place them with the meat. Then put two 
spoonfuls of veloutd sauce and a small quantity 
of grated Parmesan, a little salt, and cayenne 
pepper, into a stewpan ; boil these over the 
stove, stirring until reduced to a thick sauce ; 
then add the meat and anchovies, and mix the 
whole together,' and use the preparation in the 
following manner : cut two dozen crodtons in 
the form of a circle, fry them in clarified butter 



74 

to a bright yellow colour, and place one half in 
a clean baking sheet ; spread a thick layer of the 
above preparation on each of the croutons, then 
cover them with the remaining twelve croutons. 
Grate 4 ozs. of Parmesan cheese, and mix 
this with a pat of butter ; divide it into twelve 
parts, and cover the top of each sandwich. 
About ten minutes before sending to table, put 
them into the oven to be warmed thoroughly, 
pass the red-hot salamander over them to colour 
them of a bright yellow, dish them on a napkin, 
and serve with fried parsley. 



75 



Ox Cheek Brawn. 

(miss gape, manor, ST. ALBANS.) 

Boil the cheek of an ox tender ; when cold, 
cut it in small pieces ; then boil it up with i 
quart of strong broth, J oz. of isinglass, and a 
little pepper and salt. Pour it into a mould, and 
when cold it may be sent up whole or cut in 
slices. 



76 



Charter Pie. 

(CORNISH RECIPK) 

Take 3 or 4 very young chickens and cut 
them in quarters — season with salt only : let a 
good quantity of parsley be picked from the 
stalks, boil it in milk, and chop it very small. 
Put the whole into a dish with a quantity of 
thick cream, put paste over the dish, and bake 
it. Before it is sent to table, put a pint of hot 
cream into the pie. 



n 



Calf's Head Pie. 

(CORNISH RECIPE.) 

Half boil a calf's head, then cut it in thin 
slices, and put the meat in layers with the 
tongue, sweet herbs, spices, sago, and eggs. 
Boil the bones, and pour the jelly after it is 
strained over the meat ; when it is cold, put 
a crust over and bake it. This pie is only to 
be eaten cold. Half a calf s head is sufficient 
for a pie : the brains are omitted. 



7^ 



An old-fashioned Pigeon Pie, very good. 

(old bath cookery book.) 

Cover your dish with puff-paste crust ; let 
your pigeons be tender and nicely picked ; 
season with brown pepper and salt, and a little 
chopped onion, and put a good piece of butter 
with a little more pepper and salt under the 
pigeons ; lay them in your pan with the necks, 
gizzards, livers, and pinions between ; put a very 
tender beef-steak in the middle, and add the 
yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs ; half fill the dish 
with water, lay on the top crust and bake well, 
taking great care not to burn the paste. 



79 



Roman Pie. 

(HON. MISS JERYIS, BATH.) 

Boil I rabbit or chicken, cut off all the 
meat as thin as possible ; 2 oz. of maccaroni 
boiled very tender, 2 oz. of Parmesan cheese 
grated, a little shallot chopped very fine, and 
pepper and salt, not quite ^ pint of cream. Line 
a mould with good paste, sprinkle with vermi- 
celli, and bake an hour ; serve with brown 
sauce. 



8o 



Beef-steak Pudding. 

(methley park. 1840.) 

One slice of the undercut of a sirloin of well- 
kept beef, then oysters, then veal fat, and so fill 
up the pudding. Add a little Harvey sauce, half 
a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, salt, and white 
pepper ; mushrooms and shallots improve the 
flavour. 





8i 

• 








Capuchin Sauce. 








(lady WILLIAMS.) 






Tarragon, chervil, shallots. 


and parsley 


chopped 


down, with oil and 


vinegar. 


for 


herrings ; 


but for salmon add lemon juice 


and 


cayenne ; 


the chervil may be 


omitted 


with 


trout. 








• 


G 







82 



Tomato Sauce. 

(lady inglefieud.) 



4 lbs. of tomatoes, 6 ozs. of shallots, and 4 
ozs. of garlic, to be boiled together gently for 
one hour. Then rub through a sieve as much 
as you can, and boil the pulp you cannot get 
through in i^ pint of vinegar, with 4 ozs. of 
salt, 2 drachms of chilies, or 3 large capsicums, 
for a short time ; then add the remainder of 
the pulp, some mushroom catsup, 2 or 3 cloves, 
and cayenne pepper. Boil one hour; strain 
when cold, and bottle. 



83 



To make Sauce for Wild Duck. 

(queen anne's royal cookery book.) 

Take winter savory, thyme, and sage, of 
each a little ; put these very small into some 
strong broth, a little pepper, salt, a little ginger, 
2 spoonfuls of claret, and 2 spoonfuls of 
mutton gravy, and boil all this a quarter of an 
hour ; put in the gravy that drops from the 
ducks, but none of the fat of them. When 
the ducks are three-quarters roasted, pour the 
same through them ; and when they are cut up, 
put them on a chafing dish of coals, and stew 
them a little. 



G 7. 



84 



Vinaigrette Sauce for Cold Meat. 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

Chop mint, parsley, and shallot, and mix 
with salad oil and vinegar. 



8s 



Tartar Sauce. 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

Salad oil, French mustard, and tarragon 
vinegar (all in proportion) ; the yolks of 2 eggs ; 
chopped parsley and other herbs. Excellent 
for fish or broils. 



86 



Mayonnaise Sauce. 

(lady ARTHUR HILL.) 

Put in a round basin the yolks of 2 eggs 
and a pinch of salt. Stir in, drop by drop, 
2 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, moving the spoon 
very rapidly round, to work in the oil. When 
it is thick, add a few drops of tarragon vinegar, 
then more oil ; thin it with a little more vinegar. 
When finished it should be quite thick and 
rather acid. The above is a good sauce for 
salad, and for cold salmon or chicken. 



87 



White Soup with Herbs. 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

I quart of veal and beef stock, strong, and 
made to boil, i tablespoonful of chopped tarragon 
and chervil ; boil until tender. Add a gill of 
cream and 3 yolks of eggs beaten well together ; 
stir till quite hot ; do not boil for serving. 



 


88 


% 


To make 


a White Soup of Sago. 




(old 


RECIPE. ORE Y JIURST. ) 




Get a knuckle of veal, and boil it 


four 


hours ; 2 onions, 


I carrot, and a head of celery ; 


pass all through 


a sieve, and take all the fat off. 

• 


Then put it into 


a stewpan and boil it up ; 


add 


2 ozs. of sago, 2 


ozs. of semolina, and the 


yolk 


of 2 eggs, a gill 


of cream, and pepper and 


salt 


to taste. 







89 



Fish Soup (White). 
(scotch recipe.) 

Take a saucepan, put on as much water as 
you wish to make soup, and let it come to a 
boil. Take as much fresh fish as you think 
sufficient to make the gravy good, with a few 
blades of parsley and 2 onions ; skim it well, 
and let it boil some hours, until you find the 
gravy to your taste. Then strain the gravy from 
the fish ; take 2 or 3 ozs. of butter with as much 
flour as you think sufficient to thicken it to the 
consistency of white soup ; let it come to a boil, 
then add some pieces of the best of your fish, 



90 

with a little parsley minced fine, and a little 
white pepper, for about ten minutes before 
serving. Add i or 2 gills of cream according 
to the quantity of soup. 



91 



Cod's Head Soup (Brown). 
(scotch recipe.) 

Cut 6 large onions in slices, put them in a 
stewpan with ^ lb. of the best fresh butter ; put 
them into a stove to simmer for an hour covered 
close up. Take the head and all the pieces you 
can get off the fish ; put them on a plate, dredge 
them with flour, and let them stand. Take all 
the bones of the heads and remainder, and boil 
them for an hour in 3 English pints of water. 
Strain this through a sieve, and put the liquor 
to the onions, &c. Add a large handful of 
parsley, well washed and picked ; chop it as fine 



92 

as possible, put it in the soup, and let it just 
boil, otherwise it will make it yellow. Add a 
little cayenne pepper, 2 spoonfuls of anchovy, 
and a tablespoonful of chili vinegar ; then put 
the fish in the stewpan to the soup, and let it 
simmer for ten minutes, and send it hot to table. 
If not thick enough, add a little bit of butter 
the size of a walnut, and a little flour. 



93 



Cr£me de Tapioca. 

(countess of WARWICK.) 

Take 4 spoonfuls of pearl barley or tapioca, 
blanch and put it into a stewpan with some 
chicken consomm^ and a small head of whole 
celery. Boil gently till done ; take the celery 
out, and add a liaison of 2 yolks of eggs, and 
\ pint of cream at the last ; it must not boil. 
If it is made of barley, serve up very thin slices' 
of lemon with it. 



94 



Green Asparagus Soup. 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

Take 3 large bundles of asparagus, break off 
as far as it is tender, parboil it in water, then 
pound it in a mortar, rub it through a tammy, 
and add as much strong savoury stock as will 
make it the same consistency as green pea soup. 
Be careful not to let it boil till just before you 
send up the soup, or it loses its colour. 



95 



Soup k la Flamande. 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

Take turnips, onions, celery, leeks, and 
Jerusalem artichokes, 4 or 5 of each ; stew them 
in a little white broth ; pass it through a tammy. 
When it is to be served, add i pint of cream 
and 4 yolks of eggs. It must not boil after the 
eggs are put in. 



96 



Cheese Soup k la Bibron. 

In proportion for a large or small party, 
(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

Slice 4 onions with \ lb. of lean ham ; put it 
in a stewpan with a good piece of butter, and 
let it fry till quite brown. Add to it \ lb. of 
bread crumbs, 3 pints of good broth, and a little 
cayenne pepper. Boil for half an hour ; remove 
from the fire, and add \ lb. of Parmesan cheese. 
Pass it through a tammy ; let it boil up once 
the last moment before serving. Have 6 yolks 
of eggs mixed with 3 tablespoonfuls of broth 
added ; do not let it go near the fire afterwards ; 
cut bread in small dice and fry in clarified 
butter, and serve. 



97 



Brocon Soup. 

(lady inglefield.) 

Take 2 good-sized onions and a little ham, 
cut in small pieces ; simmer with a little butter 
till quite brown ; mix 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 
with this, add a quart of good stock, a sprig of 
thyme, and let all boil for half an hour, stirring 
occasionally to prevent burning. Season with 
salt and a little cayenne, a dessert-spoonful of 
sugar, and a glass of wine, sherry or Madeira. 
Boil 3 eggs for ten minutes ; get the yolks out 
and rub them through a sieve with a little 
butter, pepper, and salt, and a dessert-spoonful 

H 



98 

of flour. Make them into little balls about the 
size of marbles ; let them remain in boiling 
water over the fire for a few minutes to blanch 
them ; put them on a sieve, and throw them in 
just as the soup is being served up. 



99 



Potage Chiffonade. 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

I 

A handful of sorrel, 2 heads of cabbage 
lettuce, i handful of tarragon, ^ handful of 
chervil. Cut the herbs, well washed, into very 
thin slices ; put a piece of fresh butter into a 
strong stewpan, and pass the herbs in it for 
twenty minutes on a sharp fire, then put some 
good veal broth or beef stock to it. When it 
boils put it in the corner of the stove and skim 
it well ; let it stew one hour and a half, that the 
herbs may be well done. Season it to your 
palate, and serve up very hot 



H 2 



I(X) 



Clear Soup with Omelette. 

Excellent, 
(lord MARCUS HILL.) 



Make a clear light soup, and just before 
serving up make a thin savoury omelette, taking 
care not to burn it, and add it to the soup 
chopped into small pieces. 



lOI 



Omelette for Soup. 

(HON. MISS JERVIS, BATH.) 

The yolks of 3 eggs, a teaspoonful of salt, 
and i tea-cupful of white stock well beaten up. 
Put into a buttered tin and steam three-quarters 
of an hour ; then let it get cold, and cut into the 
shapes required. 



102 



Potage k la Reine. 

(countess of WARWICK.) 

Prepare a mixture the same as for * Croust- 
ades k la Reine,'^ only add the consomme and 
i pint of boiling cream at the last, and serve 
with crofttons. It must be put into a bain- 
marie, and the bain-marie into a stewpan of 
boiling water, and warmed gradually. 

» See p. 1 68. 



I03 



Soup k la Reine. 

(MRS. CHARLOTTE MASON. 1 787.) 

Put into a stewpan 2 lbs. of lean veal cut 
into slices, 2 or 3 slices of ham or lean bacon, 
a carrot, a large onion sliced, 4 peppercorns, and 
a dozen coriander seeds. Let these draw very 
gently ; add 4 quarts of beef broth, and let it 
boil quietly one hour ; strain it ; pound the 
white of a roast fowl ; blanch and beat ^ lb. of 
sweet almonds, half a dozen of bitter ; bruise 4 
yolks of eggs boiled hard ; mix these with the 
soup, rub it through a napkin, beat it, and add a 
little cream ; keep it stirring, do not let it boil ; 
put into the tureen the crumb of a French roll 
whole. 



1 



I04 



Cock-a-Leekie. 

(earl of stair, lochinch.) 

Boil an old fowl for three hours, reduce the 
liquor to 2 pints ; put about a pint of good 
beef soup. Cut 8 or lo leeks (the thick white 
parts about an inch long) ; boil in the liquor 
for two hours. Then take I2 prunes, stone 
them, and let them boil in the soup a quarter 
of an hour. Serve hot. If thick, a little beef 
soup may be added. This is enough for six 
persons. 



los 



Water Souchd. 

(dutch recipe, given to lady STUART DE ROTHESAY 
BY THE LATE LORD MONTAGU.) 

Take 6 flounders ; boil 2 in a little water ; 
when well done, take the fillets off, put the^ 
bones back in the water, reduce it to a small 
quantity. Chop some onions and parsley very 
fine, fry them in butter ; add a little flour 
and cream to the water the flounders were 
boiled in. Season with pepper and salt to 
your taste. Put back the fillets, and boil the 
remainder of the flounders. The last thing put 
the sauce over them. 



io6 



'A good strong savoury Broth as it was 
made for the Queen on mornings/ 

(from queen anne's royal cookery book.) 

Make some very good broth with the lean 
of veal, beef, or mutton, and with a brawny 
hen or young cock ; after it is scummed, put 
in an onion quartered (and if you like, a clove 
of garlic), a little parsley, a sprig of thyme, 
as much mint, a little baum, some coriander 
seeds bruised, a very little saffron, salt, pepper, 
and a clove. When all the substance is boiled 
out of the meat, and the broth very good, 
you may drink it so, or pour a little of it 



107 

on toasted sliced bread, and stew it till the 
bread has drunk up all that broth ; then add 
a little more and stew so, adding broth by 
little and little, that the bread may imbibe it 
and swell, whereas if you drown it at once 
the bread will not swell and grow like jelly, and 
thus you have a good pottage. You may add 
cabbage, or leeks, or endive, or parsley roots 
before the broth has ended boiling, and time 
enough for them to become tender. In the 
summer you may put in lettuce, sorrel, purs- 
lane, borage, and buglos, but green herbs do 
rob the strength and vigour and cream of the 
pottage. 



io8 



Soupe k la Bonne Femme. 

(countess of WARWICK.) 

Wash clean a head of lettuce without the 
stalk ; cut it in nice strips, and a good handful 
of sorrel ; wash, and put all into a stewpan to 
reduce ; add some good chicken consommd, boil 
gently for half an hour, and when about to 
serve cut out of the crust of a French roll some 
little round pieces, and put them in the soup. 



109 



Chicken Soup. 

(lady SARAH E. LINDSAY.) 

Boil down the chicken bones, add a little 
savoury stock, then semolina and a little sago, 
and boil gently till all is ready for serving. 
Cream may be added, but is rot needed. 



no 



Mutton Broth. 

(MRS. WHITE, 
FORMER COOK TO LADY SARAH K LINDSAY.) 

Boil about 2 lbs. of the neck of mutton 
with leeks, carrots, i turnip, a parsnip, and 
a little celery, salt to taste, in 5 pints of water 
until the meat is thoroughly done ; prepare 
cutlets, put the trimmings from the cutlets in 
the broth. When done, having prepared a 
carrot, 2 turnips cut in small dice, with two 
leeks, strain the stock and put the cutlets in 
with the prepared vegetables, and half a tea- 
cupful of rice. Boil two hours very gently, 
skimming well. 



J 



Ill 



Mock Turtle Soup. 

(old bath cookery book.) 

Provide 2 calves' feet and i chicken ; 
cut them into pieces of a proper size for a 
fricassee ; make the seasoning with 3 large 
onions, a handful of parsley, and a few sweet 
herbs'. Chop them all together, then season 
the meat ; let the calves* feet stew two hours ; 
then put in the chicken, let it stew half an hour. 
Add a glass of Madeira and some cayenne 
pepper; let the whole stew together half an 
hour, and serve up in a soup tureen. 



112 



Clear Mock Turtle Soup. 

(brickhill manor.) 

I calfs head, 12 lbs, of stock meat. The 
head to be boiled two hours, then taken out, and 
the meat laid aside ; all the bones with the 
stock meat put on to boil for six hours, well 
garnished with fine herbs and shallots rather 
than onions ; then passed through the sieve, 
when all the fat must be taken off. The calfs 
head to be cut in small pieces, add a little 
cayenne pepper and salt, two small glasses 



113 

of sherry mixed with 2 tablespoonfuls of clear 
arrowroot, and serve very hot ; the skin must 
be left on the head. Sufficient for a party 
of ten. 



114 



Hotch-Potch. 

(ELIZABETH, COUNTESS OF BALCARRES. 1806.) 

Take the breast and back ribs of mutton, 
cut them in small pieces, and wash them well ; 
put them in a pot with 3 Scotch pints of 
water along with 2 whole turnips and 2 whole 
carrots ; let them boil two hours, then take out 
the meat, and run the soup through a sieve to 
keep out the small bones ; put it on again 
with 2 or 3 turnips cut small, and the same 
quantity of carrots, 2 or 3 onions, and ^ peck 
of peas, and if the soup be not sufficiently 



IIS 

thick, bruise the turnips and carrots that were 
boiled with the mutton, and put in the mutton 
about two hours before dinner, with salt and 
pepper to your taste. 



I 2 



n6 



Barley Broth. 

(ELIZABETH, COUNTESS OF BALCARRES. 1806.) 

Take 8 lbs. of fresh beef, wash it in warm 
water, put it in a soup pot with 6 quarts of 
water, and a tea-cup of pearl barley. Set it on 
the fire, when it boils skim it well, put a little 
cold water in the soup pot and skim it again, 
until no more scum rises. (When the beef is 
sufficiently boiled take it out, and dish sepa- 
rately when ready.) Then take 2 turnips, 2 
carrots, 4 onions, a small bit of white cabbage ; 
cut all very fine, put them into the broth, 



n; 



let them boil slowly for four or five hours. 
After the roots have been put in, you may 
have a whole carrot and turnip boiled in your 
broth. When sufficiently done, break them 
with a spoon in a basin. Put them into 
the broth for ten minutes before you dish it ; 
this gives a good colour, and thickens the 
broth. 



ii8 



Savoury Souffl6. 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

Take a pheasant, partridge, or hare, pound 
the meat in a mortar with 4 spoonfuls of flour, a 
little onion and parsley, ^ lb. of butter ; season, 
and mix with it the yolks of 4 eggs ; pass it 
through a sieve ; beat up 6 whites of eggs ; mix 
in lightly. Let the whole be put in a cloth, and 
baked three-quarters of an hour ; mind it does 
not burn. 



119 



To make Grouse Souffle. 

(given by sir WILLIAM ALEXANDER, Q.C, TO 
LADY SARAH K LINDSAY, IN THE HIGHLANDS. 1 848.) 

Take the breasts of 2 grouse that have 
been dressed, pound them in a mortar with 
2 ozs. of fresh butter and a soupgon of onion. 
Then rub them through a sieve ; add 4 eggs, 
the whites beaten to a high froth ; season with 
cayenne and a little salt. Twenty minutes 
will bake it in a tin in a quick oven. To be 
served up very hot. 



I20 



Soufifl^ de Parmesan. 

(from a FRENCH RECIPE.) 

Place in a stewpan i oz. of butter, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour, a little salt, ^ pint of milk, 
the yolks of 4 eggs, and 2 spoonfuls of cream. 
Boil till thick, and when sufficiently cool add 
the whites of the eggs whipped up, stiffen 
gently, stir in with the other ingredients ; strew 
in lightly 2 ozs. of Parmesan cheese, and a 
little pinch of cayenne pepper. Bake in a quick 
oven. 



L_ 



L2I 



Cheese Puife. ' 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

Grate some Parmesan cheese into a rich puff 
paste, roll it as thin as possible, cut it into 
pieces the size of a crown piece, and throw them 
into hot lard ; i lb. of the grated cheese will be 
sufficient to flavour two do2en puffs. 



122 



Cheese Straws. 

(countess of ST. GERMANS. 1 854.) 

i Ib^ of puff paste ; 2 ozs. of Parmesan cheese, 
grated very fine. Sprinkle the cheese and a little 
cayenne pepper on the paste, roll it two or three 
times, cut it six inches long and two wide. Bake 
in a moderately heated oven, and send up very 
hot. 



123 



Hindoo Relish. 

Excellent, 

(brickhill manor.) 

Boil eggs very hard ; cut lengthwise ; then 
take the yolks without breaking the white, and 
pass through a sieve with as much butter and 
grated ham, and small pinch of curry powder-; 
mix well together and refill the eggs, then put 
them in the oven till browned. Serve very hot 
on dry toast. 



134 



Risotto it la Milahaise. 

(lady ARTHUR HILL.) 

Fry in a saucepan, with butter, an onion 
finely minced, and when it is of a golden colour 
put in sufficient rice ; keep adding stock or 
broth as fast as the grain absorbs it. When 
the grain begins to burst, remove it from the 
fire ; add plenty of Parmesan cheese, a little 
salt, pepper, and butter. 



125 



Italian Stewed Rice. 

(LOUISA, MARCHIONESS OF WATERFORD.) 

Chop half an onion fine and put in a stew- 
pan with 3 ozs. of butter. Fry for a few minutes. 
Add ^ lb. of rice, and i pint of good stock, 
pepper, and salt. Stew for half an hour, and 
add a tablespoonful of Parmesan cheese before 
serving. 



126 



Persian Recipe for Boiling Rice. 

(old recipk) 

Soak the rice in cold water for two hours ; 
then put it into a pot of boiling water and boil 
for half an hour, till the rice is just about to 
soften. Lift the pot off the fire, and pour all its 
contents into a cullender to strain the water off. 
Fresh water must then be poured over the rice 
in the cullender, and the rice stirred round while 
it strains off, so as to wash the rice perfectly- 
clean and carry off the glutinous matter. A 
small quantity of clarified butter is then put 
into the pot with fresh water and the rice poured 
back. Cover the pot, and boil gently over a 
slow fire for two hours. 



127 



Petits Pois k la Demi-Bourgeoise. 

(lady BUCKINGHAMSHIRE. 1 768.) 

Put a large pint and a half of young peas 
into a stewpan with a bit of butter, bunch of 
parsley, young onion, and i cabbage lettuce cut 
in form. Let them be stewed in their own 
juice upon a very slow fire ; when they are done, 
and there is hardly any sauce left, add a little 
sugar, very little fine salt, and afterwards the 
yolks of two eggs with some cream. Mix the 
whole on the fire and serve it. up. 



128 



To Stew Old Peas of the Last Year, 

(mr, lewis.) 

Soak them one night in soft water, and next 
morning they will be found to have the appear- 
ance of being just taken from the shells. They 
must be stewed slowly for two hours in soft 
water just sufficient to cover them, adding let- 
tuce, mint, and a lump of sugar, pepper, and salt, 
thickened with butter and flour. They may be 
done with veal or lamb, but are very good as a 
side dish. 




129 



Potato Croquettes. 

(old recipe.) 

Mix 4 ozs. of grated Westphalia or English 
ham with i lb. of mealy potatoes mashed with 
butter, salt, and 2 eggs ; form them into small 
loaves, and fry them in butter ; serve them up 
in brown gravy. 



K 



» 

I 



130 



Potatoes k la Lyonnaise. 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 



Put i lb. of butter in a frying-pan ; cut 2 
onions into dice, put them with the butter, and 
12 boiled potatoes, also cut into dice ; throw 
them into the pan and stir for ten minutes, then 
dish them up hot. Less in quantity for a small 
dinner. 



131 



Potato Chips. 

(methley park.) 

The potatoes must be pared raw and cut in 
long pieces ; put them into water, or they will 
turn black ; then in a cloth to dry. Shake a 
little flour over them, and be sure to have the 
lard quite hot, otherwise they will boil instead 
of crisping. Before dishing up, sprinkle a little 
salt over the chips. 



K 2 



132 



Pomme de Terre Souffl6. 

(barham court.) 

Take 6 potatoes of equal size ; bake them in 
a slow oven till well done. With the point of a 
knife cut off a piece large enough only to ad- 
mit of a teaspoon to empty them. Pass the 
potatoes quickly through a fine wire sieve ; have 
ready a little boiling milk sufficient to make a 
pur^e as thick as cream ; wash it well with a 
wooden spopn ; add salt and pepper to taste. 
Let it cool. Whip the white of i egg to a 
strong froth ; mix it very lightly with the puree ; 
fill the skins quite full, and bake them in a quick 



133 

oven twenty minutes. Serve very hot. Great 
care must be taken to pass the potatoes and 
mix the pur^e very quickly, or the potatoes will 
become rough, and not rise when baked. 



134 



1 



Macaroni Pudding. 

Very good. 
(FRENCH RECIPE.) 

4 ozs. of macaroni to be well boiled, i pint 
of milk, 5 yolks and 2 whites of eggs, a little 
boiled ham cut in dice, I tablespoonful of 
bdchamel sauce ; mustard, pepper, and salt to 
taste. Steam one hour and a half. 



135 



Veal Pat^s. 

(brickhill manor.) 

Chop some veal and a bit of lean ham or 
tongue together ; make a little good beef gravy 
hot ; add a little cream ; make it boil ; shake a 
little pepper over the veal, add a little shallot 
or garlic ; put all into the gravy. Make it 
thoroughly hot. Fill your pdt^s when you take 
them out of the cream. 



1 



136 



Piemontese Tartlets. 

(HON. MISS JERVIS, BATH.) 



Make a paste of i oz. of butter, 2 ozs. of 
flour, the yolk of i egg, a little water, and a 
pinch of salt ; roll it to the thickness of an 
eighth of an inch, line some patty-pans with it. 
Take 2 ozs. of finely grated Parmesan cheese, 
beat it up with the yolks of 2 eggs ; add pepper, 
salt, and a little cayenne ; work in 2 table- 
spoonfuls of cream ; fill the patties, and bake 
in a moderate oven. 



137 



Mayonnaise. 

(AMERICAN RECIPE.) 

Roast a pair of fowls in the morning ; 
leave them till quite cool. Immediately before 
serving, carve the fowls and put them com- 
pactly into a dish. Take the yolks of 5 eggs, 
and pour in a very fine continual stream half a 
bottle of the best olive oil and a small tea- 
spoonful of mustard. Stir the same way till they 
are creamed ; then add a teaspoonful of shal- 
lot vinegar into the dressing, and, having put 
a little pepper, salt, and vinegar on the fowl, 
pour the dressing over it, and arrange bunches 
of cool fresh lettuce, and garnish with hard- 
boiled eggs cut in four quarters. 



138 



Curried Spinach. 

(MRS. LUCY, SEN., CHARLECOTE.) 

Take some carefully cooked spinach, and fry- 
it in boiling butter, in which a little curry pow- 
der (a tablespoonful) has been already fried ; 
add to this a dozen prawns or shrimps, and fry 
the whole together slowly for one hour. A plate 
should be turned down all over this to keep in 
the pieces which otherwise are lost. Serve as 
an entree. Good hot or cold. 



139 



Lord Clive's Curry, 

(an AMERICAN RECIPK) 

Slice 6 onions, i green apple, and a clove of 
garlic. Stew them in a little good stock until 
they will pulp ; then add i teaspoonful of curry 
powder, a few tablespoonfuls of stock, a little 
salt and cayenne pepper, half a salt-spoonful 
of each. Stew in this gravy any kind of meat 
cut into small pieces, adding a piece of butter 
the size of a walnut rolled in flour. 



140 



Ham Pancakes. 

(HON. MISS JERVIS.) 



A common pancake should be a few minutes 
in the frying-pan before the ham is put on it. 
Then cover the ham with a little more batter ; 
after a few more minutes it must be turned and 
fried altogether. The slices of ham or bacon 
should be cut as thin as possible. 



141 



An Old-Fashioned Welsh Rarebit. 

(old recipe.) 

Toast the bread very neatly on both sides 
and butter it. Cut a slice of cheese about as 
long as the bread, toast it on one side, and with 
a hot iron brown the other. Rub over a little 
mustard, and serve very hot. 






142 



Cayenne Cheese. 

(miss gape, manor, ST. ALBANS.) 

Weigh equal quantities of Parmesan cheese, 
butter, and flour ; add cayenne pepper to your 
taste. Roll it out in pieces, the size of French 
pastry ; bake them in a moderate oven, and 
send them up quite hot in a napkin. 



143 



Green Butter. 

(madame grisi.) 

Boil a handful of parsley ; let it get cold ; add 
I oz. of fresh butter and a little anchovy paste 
or anchovies (less than the size of a small 
walnut), and pass it all through a fine sieve; 
and it must be sent up quite cold. 



144 



Spanish Butter. 

(HON. MISS TUCHET.) 

Dissolve I oz. of isinglass in a pint of new 
milk ; then add i pint of cream, a little rose 
water to taste, or other flavouring, a few bitter 
almonds, and sweeten. Have ready the yolks 
of 4 eggs well beaten. Mix altogether, set on 
the fire, and constantly stir it until it begins to 
simmer ; then strain through a muslin bag till 
nearly cold, and pour into moulds. 



145 



Spanish Recipe for Anchovies. 

(given by the late lady HOLLAND TO THE DUKE 

OF BEDFORD.) 

Anchovies with oil are much improved by 
having knotted marjoram mixed with them, as 
in Spain. 



146 



*■■ H*»j Butter. 

.-^.-L^TISS FALMOUTH.) 

i^ Tiust be washed, and the bones 
r.uncei well in a mortar. Boil 
ur^ ras it through a sieve with 
^: auner. Mix the whole well 
. : n:: pats> and ice it. 



147 



EASTERN COOKERY. 

Translated from the words of Karabet Akhtgi, 

(given by the HON. MISS TUCHET.) 

Boorgoo. 

Sometimes boorgoo is used instead of rice. 
This boorgoo is malt made of wheat, instead 
of barley ; it may be kept for some time, and 
when it is to be used in cookery, it is boiled 
in the same manner as rice, and used in the 
same way ; but only in savoury, and not 
sweet dishes. I am surprised that this has 
not hitherto been introduced into European 
cookery, as it is an excellent dish. 



L 2 



148 



EASTERN COOKERY (continued). 

Kebab. 

Take tender meat, such as mutton, kidneys, 
or sweetbread ; cut it into pieces the size of a 
nut, stick one piece on an iron skewer, then a 
piece of fat, then a piece of some vegetable 
such as tomato or potato, then another piece 
of meat, and so on till the skewer is full. Add 
pepper and salt, and toast by the side of the 
fire. When roasted, cut open a new roll or 
flat piece of new bread ; take the kebabs off 
the skewers, and put them inside the bread ; 
pour some gravy over this, and serve hot. 



149 

Sometimes the meat is steeped for an hour in 
red wine before it is put on the skewers. • 

Yaourt, a kind of sour milk, may be poured 
over this dish for sauce ; it is also occasionally 
covered over with salad chopped small. 



ISO 



EASTERN COOKERY (conHnued). 

Teng€r6 Kebab. 

Take a piece of meat, fry till it is half done 
in butter, put it into a stewpan (tengdr^) with 
lemon peel, a glass of red wine, a small 
quantity of spices, pepper, salt, and cover it 
close. Stew it for four hours over a small 
charcoal fire. 



iSi 



EASTERN COOKERY (continued), 

Dolma. 

Mince mutton with onions and rice ; with 
this stuff cucumbers, gourds, or vegetable 
marrows. Mix some broth with the yolk of 
an egg and lemon juice ; pour this over the 
dolmas for sauce. 



1 



152 



EASTERN COOKERY {continued). 

Dolma of Vine Leaves. 

Put the vine leaves in boiling water for 
a moment, or throw boiling water over them ; 
put a small quantity of mincemeat and rice 
into each, and wrap it up in the leaf. Stew 
them in broth. 



153 



EASTERN COOKERY (continued). 

Tomato Patties. 

These are made of anything of which pat- 
ties are usually made ; but instead of pastry, 
the meat is to be put into the tomatoes, of 
which the insides have been taken out, and 
fried in butter or baked. 



* 



154 



EASTERN COOKERY {continued), 

Keinft^. 

Pound meat and suet in a mortar, with 
onions half boiled, parsley and eggs, pepper, 
salt, and a little water. Make this into small 
balls, throw flour over them, and fry them. 



iSS 



EASTERN COOKERY (continued). 



Keihma. 



Squeeze the water out of a vegetable 
marrow ; grate it small, grate some new cheese, 
add eggs and a small quantity of fried onions 
and pistachio nuts ; make this into a paste, 
and beat it up well together. Then take some 
slices of vegetable marrow, or fruit of the egg 
plant, spread the paste upon them rather 
thickly, having first put a little butter on the 
slices. Bake in a slow oven for half an hour. 



I 



1 56 



Mousse de Volaille. 

(countess of WARWICK.) 

Take the fillets of a chicken, pound them 
in a mortar ; then pass through a hair sieve, 
put it into a basin, and twenty minutes before 
dinner whip ^ pint of cream very stiff. Add 
it by degrees to the meat, and season with 
salt according to taste. Put the mixture in 
a buttered mould, and have a steamer ready. 
The water must simmer only, not boil, or 
else it will curdle. Put the mould into it, 
and steam it for ten minutes. Make a supreme 



157 

sauce with the bones ; turn the mousse on the 
dish, absorb all water that may come from it, 
pour the sauce round, and serve. A mousse 
may be done the same with game or fish. 



158 



Boudin de Volaille Allemande. 

(countess GF WARWICK.) 

Take the meat of chicken, game, or rabbit ; 
make some nice forcemeat very soft with 
cream ; shape like quenelles, or steam in small 
moulds. When cold, make some Allemande 
sauce (which is reduced veloutd) ; then add a 
little cream, i yolk of egg, and a little mush- 
room juice ; boil, then pass through a tammy. 
Mask the boudin over with it ; when cold, cover 
with eggs and bread crumbs, c^nd fry in hot 
lard. The softer you make the forcemeat 
with cream, the better it is. 



159 



Timbales k la Parisienne. 

(countess of WARWICK.) 

Take a plain charlotte mould, well buttered ; 
make ready some macaroni ; when cooked, cut 
it very thin and put it all round the mould ; 
then line with some chicken forcemeat ; have 
some quenelles made with a teaspoon ; poach 
in stock a little tongue, chicken cut the same 
as for blanquette, mushrooms, and truffles. 
Reduce some sauce, and put all into the mould ; 
cover the top with forcemeat, steam for half 
an hour, and serve with thin velout^ sauce. 



i6o 



Bouch^es des Cervelles. 

(countess of WARWICK.) 

Put the brains of 2 sheep's heads in salt and 
water for twenty-four hours (not much salt). 
Put them into a stewpan in cold water with a 
little vinegar, a little onion, parsley, carrot, 
thyme, and bay leaf. Let them gently come 
to the boil ; take them off when cold, cut all 
in small dice, but very carefully, or they will 
break. Before serving, warm a little velout^, 
put the brains in, warm again, and serve the 
bouchdes in a napkin. 



i6i 



Supreme de Volaille. 

(countess of WARWICK.) 

Put a chicken, cut into nice fillets, into a 
buttered saucepan ; cover with some clarified 
butter. About ten minutes before serving, put 
them in the oven and just set them ; if too 
long they will harden. Take them to a hot 
plate, put some sauce over them, toss them, 
then dish up one by one like cutlets, alternately 
with slices of tongue warmed in consommd. 
Peas, asparagus points, or juice of mushrooms 
in the centre, and velout^ all round. 



M 



1 62 



Haricot Mutton Cutlets. 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

Cut a neck of mutton into chops, put them 
into a frying-pan, and fry them a nice light 
brown. Then put the chops into a stewpan. 
Have ready some. cai rots, turnips, onions, cut 
and fried, with a little salt, pepper, flour ; add 
them to the chops, also fried a nice brown, 
with sufficient stock to cover the whole. Let 
them stew two hours ; put the chops round the 
dish, vegetables in middle. 



i63 



Cutlets k la Reform* 

(miss gape, manor, ST.. ALBANS.) 

Take lo or 12 mutton cutlets, very small, 
and well seasoned with pepper and salt. They 
are to be bread-crumbed, mixed, with some 
ham and parsley chopped very fine, and put 
in a saucepan well buttered. An excellent 
sauce for this dish wiU bafound on. the following 
page. 



M 2 



. i64 



Sauce for the Cutlets k la Reform.^ 

(miss gape, manor, ST. ALBANS.) 

Take the white of an egg chopped in small 
fillets, and also cut some Indian pickle small; 
3 or 4 spoonfuls of good seasoned gravy, a 
little cayenne pepper, half a spoonful of currant 
jelly, and a little Roux sauce. 

* See previous page. 



i65 



Excellent Scotch CoUops. 

(old recipk) 

Cut your collops from the best end of a 
neck or leg of veal, rather larger than a crown 
piece ; mix i egg, a little butter and seasoning 
(such as mushrooms, a taste of garlic and herbs) ; 
dip your collops in that, put a little butter in a 
nice frying-pan, and fry them a light brown. 
Serve with a rich savoury sauce. 



1 66 



Chicken Cutlets. 

(HON. MISS JERVIS, BA^H.) 

Boil a cupful of rice in milk until quite 
soft ; then pound it in a mortar with some salt 
and white pepper ; pound separately an equal 
quantity of cold chicken, some lean ham or 
bacon, and a very little grated lemon peel ; mix 
all together with the yolk of an egg, form into 
cutlets and brush them over with egg, bread 
crumbs, and herbs like veal cutlets ; fry them 
a light brown, and serve with a sauce piquante 
made of gravy, tomato, or any other flavour. 



1 67 



Bouchdes k la Morglas. 

(countess of WARWICK.) 



Make some puff-paste patties, and fill them 
with this mixture : some chicken cut in small 
dice, tongue, truffles, and mushrooms which 
have been put into a stewpan with a little 
velout^ ; fill the cases, and serve hot on a 
napkin. 



1 68 



Croustades k la Reine. 



(countess of WARWICK.) 



Take all the meat off a roasted chicken, 
pound it well in a mortar ; while pounding it 
have a stewpan on the fire with the bones and 
4 spoonfuls of rice. When cooked, take all 
the bones out, and put the rice into the mortar, 
and pound it well ; then put the meat and rice 
into the stewpan again. Add a little warm 
consommd, pass it through a tammy, then put 
it into a clean stewpan with a little butter and 
cream ; warm, but do not boil. Make some 
small cases with paste like this : ^ lb. of flour, 



169 



2 ozs. of butter, i egg ; line the moulds with it 
very thinly (the thinner the more delicate), fill 
with barley, and bake. When of a nice colour, 
remove the barley, and fill with the pur^e to 
make puff-paste tops. Game can be done in the 
same way on a napkin. 



170 



To Roast Larks with Bacon. 

(queen anne's royal cookery book.) 

Put your larks on a small spit, with a slice of 
bacon and a sage leaf between each lark. Being 
roasted, dish them up with a sauce made of the 
juice of two or three oranges and a little sliced 
ginger ; then set it (the sauce) on the fire a little 
while, and beat it up with a piece of butter, and 
so serve them up. 



171 



Partridges ^ la Sierra Morena. 

(late sir ANDREW BARNARD.) 



Put into a middle-sized stewpan 4 partridges 
ready trussed ; cut | lb. of bacon in squares one 
inch thick, and put them in the stewpan. Take 
4 large onions, cut them in four quarters each, 
1 2 grs. of whole pepper, a little salt, 3 bay leaves, 
I gill of vinegar, ^ pint of port wine, ^ pint of 
water, 2 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, and put all 
these ingredients into the stewpan. Take half a 
sheet of brown kitchen paper, and cover the 
stewpan with it, making the lid quite tight ; 
then put the stewpan over a slow charcoal fire 



172 



to stew for two hours. Take out the partridges, 
and when in the dish put round it some of the 
quarters of the onions that have been stewed. 
Pour the gravy in the dish after it hiis passed 
through a sieve, and send to table. Chickens 
will likewise do in this way. 



173 



Faisan k la Tregothran. 

(viscountess FALMOUTH.) 

Bone a hen pheasant ; take the meat of 4 
woodcocks ^ with chopped truffles mixed with 
the forcemeat ; this is to form the stuffing for 
the boned pheasant ; the trail of the wood- 
cocks, fried in a little butter, put on pieces of 
toast round the dish. For gravy: stew the bones 
of the woodcocks, afterwards reduce the broth, 
add a little sherry or Madeira to the broth, and 
serve it in a boat ; season to taste. 



* Woodcocks are, or were, very plentiful in Cornwall. 



174 



German Way of Roasting a Fowl 
with Chestnuts. 

(MRS. C. MASON. 1787.) 

Roast some chestnuts of a fine brown, with- 
out burning them ; take off the skins, and peel 
them ; take about a dozen, cut them small, and 
bruise them in a mortar ; take J lb. of ham or 
bacon, and beat it till it is very fijie ; chop 
small a handful of parsley, a few sweet herbs, a 
little pepper and salt Mix all together, and 
put them into the fowl. Tie the neck very 
tight, and hang it up by the legs ; roast it with 



175 



a string, and baste it with butter. For sauce : 
take some more chestnuts, peeled and skinned, 
put them into some good gravy with a little 
white wine, and thicken it with a piece of butter 
rolled in flour. 



1/6 



To Roast a Leg of Pork without Crackling. 

(given to lady STUART DE ROTHESAY.) 



The leg of pork to be salted three days ; 
then boiled for one hour, and the skin taken off; 
then to be roasted. It will require the same 
time roasting as if not boiled ; then to be basted 
with a tablespoon ful of good vinegar, and a 
little cayenne pepper. The pork to be taken 
from the spit and laid in a dish before the fire ; 
the vinegar to be piixed with good savoury 
gravy, to be served up with the pork. 



177 



Savoury Vermicelli. 

(lady inglefield.) 

Set I pint of milk to boil on the fire, and 
when it is ready put in 3 tablespoonfuls of 
vermicelli, , Let it simmer five minutes ; add 3 
eggs both yolks and whites ; befat all up together 
with a little cream, salt, white pepper, and a 
little shallot. Stick the mould with small neatly 
cut pieces of ham or tongue. Bake it, and serve 
when turned out with savoury gravy. 



N 



178 



Mushroom Omelette. 

(dowager lady BUCKINGHAMSHIRE. 1757-) 

Fricassee your mushrooms ; then take half 
of them and mince them fine. Then mix into 
an omelette with the proper quantity of eggs, 
yolks and whites, seasoned with a little salt, an 
onion sliced extremely fine, artd some sliced 
parsley. Of this you must fry two omelettes in a 
small pan, for they should be thick and tender ; 
then lay your fricassee of mushrooms between 
the two omelettes, and serve them as hot as you 
can ; be sure to fry the omelettes very tender. 



179 



Carotte a la Flamande. 

(countess dowager of verulam.) 

Take some good carrots ; after cleaning 
them well, cut them into pieces the size of a 
shilling. Scald them in boiling water for al- 
most ten minutes ; then strain them through a 
tammy sieve. Put 4 ozs. of good butter in a 
saucepan ; then let it melt. Put the carrots in 
the melted butter with a little sugar and salt ; 
then let them boil very slowly in the butter till 
the carrots are quite tender before serving up. 
You must strain off the butter, and add to the 
carrots a good large spoonful of bechamel sauce, 
some suet as to fricassee of chicken, and a little 
chopped parsley. 

N 2 



i8o 



Aspic Jelly. 

(old recipe.) 

2 lbs. of knuckle of veal, 2 lbs. of the shin of 
beef, I calf's foot, a few whole peppers, some 
salt, a stick of celery, a little carrot, a good 
bundle of herbs in which should be some 
tarragon, and i oz. of gelatine ; add a little 
sherry according to taste. Put all in a stewpan 
and simmer gently for six hours, skimming it 
well ; clear after the usual manner. 



i8i 



Jelly from Deer Horns. 

(MRS. LUCY, SEN., OF CHARLECOTE.) 

Saw the horns into short bits, scald them 
well, simmer for twelve hours or longer, and 
then, if stiff enough, make it as you would 
calves* feet jelly. A second boiling of the 
horns will make a little more stock ; it is jnost 
nourishing, and it does not matter how old the 
horns are. 



l82 



Pudding k la Richelieu. 

(countess dowager of verulam.) 



Make ready a good forcemeat of quenelles of 
fowl or young rabbit Make the quantity wanted 
for an entree in flat quenelles 2 inches long to 
I inch wide. Poach them delicately in soup ; 
then let them drop on a napkin. When they 
are cold, put bread crumbs with egg on them. 
Take care not to spoil their shape ; fry them in 
a pan prepared with clarified butter. To make 
them take colour on both sides, five minutes 
before serving add half a glass of tomato sauce. 



i83 



(Eufs k la Lady Evelyn. 

(lady ARTHUR HILL.) 



Boil hard 3 eggs, remove the shells, and cut 
them in half lengthwise ; place the whites in 

I 

cold water ; be careful not to break them. Add 
a pat and a half of fresh butter to the yolks ; 
then work it smooth with a wooden spoon. 
Season with pepper, salt, and a little mustard ; 
grate a little lean ham, and mince a teaspoonful 
of parsley and some sweet herbs. Stir a por- 
tion of this in, and fill the eggs with it ; sprinkle 
the remainder of the ham and parsley on the top. 
Dish them up on 6 small croutons, and send to 
table cold. 



1 84 



Eggs and Tomatoes. 

(SPANISH RECIPE. LADY ARTHUR HILL.) 



Roast and peel tomatoes, cut them up, strain 
them if necessary. Beat up some eggs well. 
Put in a saucepan some butter or. oil ; whilst 
frying, put in the tomatoes with some chopped 
onions, garlic, and capsicums ; add the eggs, 
salt, and pepper, and keep stirring until they 
are nearly dry. 



i8s 



Dressed Eggs. 

Very good, 
(viscountess FALMOUTH.) 



Boil 4 eggs twenty minutes ; cut the whites 
in small pieces ; rub the yolks through a coarse 
sieve. Make a white sauce with a little parsley 
chopped fine, and cream, cayenne, and salt ; 
put in the whites, boil for one minute ; put them 
into a breakfast dish ; cover them with the yolks, 
and brown lightly with a salamander. 



1 86 



Egg Sandwiches. 

(meneworth castle.) 



The yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs pounded in 
a mortar with a little chopped parsley, butter, 
salt, cayenne pepper, and a very little chutnee. 
When of a fine paste, spread on the sandwich 
bread, and put slices of chicken and small salad 
chopped. 



1 87 



To Broil Eggs. 

(from an old ilECIPE BOOK.) 

Cut a toast round a quartern loaf, brown it, 
and lay it in your dish, butter it very carefully, 
break your eggs on the toast, and pour a little 
seasoned stock over them ; take a red-hot 
kitchen shovel, and hold it over till it begins to 
frizzle, and send up your dish hastily. 



1 88 



To pickle Codlings. 

No other kind of apple tvill answer the purpose* 

(an old methley park recipe.) 

When codlings are at their full gfrowth, 
lay them in salt and water three days, chang- 
ing the water every day ; then scoop a piece 
out of the bottom where the start grows ; then 
scoop out the core, the top of the apple re- 
maining to be left whole. Then put into each 
codling I teaspoonful of mustard, made as you 
eat it, 2 small bits of ginger, a clove of garlick, 
and a real clove. Then put in the piece again 



1 89 

close, that was first taken out, and put them 
in a jar with pickle enough to cover them. 

To a gallon of the best white vinegar put 
a pint of mustard made as above, i head of 
garlick, i oz. of ginger sliced, and as much 
whole pepper,, and a handful of salt; boil all 
these together for an hour. Pour this scalding 
hot upon the codlings three days together. 
They will be fit for use in six months, or 
sooner; should they be kept any time, it is 
essential that some fresh-made pickle should 
be poured over them. 



I90 



To pickle Russian Cucumbers. 



Excellent. 



(late lord STUART DE ROTHESAY. ST. PETERSBURG.) 



To 1 6 quarts of water add i lb. 2 ozs. of 
salt, and let the salt and water boil, and 
then stand one day. Wash the cucumbers, 
cut some fennel and tarragon, and mix them 
with black currant leaves and whole oak leaves. 
Cover the outside of a cask with pitch, then 
in the inside put a layer of herbs and leaves, 
then a layer of cucumbers, and so on until the 
cask is full. Then pour in the salt water gently, 
close, and put a cover on the cask. 



191 



Chutnee. 

(given in EDINBURGH BY DR. CLARKSON, 

FORMERLY PHYSICIAN TO THE KING OF OUDE, 

TO LADY SARAH E. LINDSAY. 1 848.) 

I lb. of sour apples, 8 ozs. of coarse brown 
sugar, 4 ozs. of salt, 4 ozs. of the freshest raisins, 
i^ oz. of cayenne pepper, and i oz. of garlic. 
Each article to be separately bruised very fine, 
and then to be well mixed together, with a 
sufficient quantity of strong vinegar to make it 
of a proper consistency. 



192 



Indian Chutnee Sauce. 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

I lb. of brown sugar, ^ lb. of salt, ^ lb. of 
powdered ginger, J lb. of raisins pounded fine, 
3 ozs. of garlic pounded fine, cayenne to your 
palate, 6 tablespoonfuls of English mustard ; 30 
large apples pared and cored ; stew them in half 
a cupful of water till tender ; when cold, mix 
all the ingredients with two bottles of vinegar, 
then simmer it over the fire until it becomes 
thick, strain it through a sieve, put it into wide- 
mouthed bottles, and cork tight with bladder 
over.^ 

* Of course less in proportion for a small family. S.E.L. 



193 



Tomato Chutnee. 

(tYTTENH ANGER. ) 

2 lbs. of ripe tomatoes, i lb. of raisins, 4 ozs. 
of salt, I lb. of capsicums, 4 ozs. of preserved 
tamarinds, 3 ozs. of garlic, J oz. of ginger, 
2 teaspoonfuls of vinegar. The above to be 
separately pounded in a stone mortar. The 
tomatoes must be cut open, and the seeds 
and juice taken out and put away. The 
tomatoes to be pounded and rubbed through 
a sieve, then mixed with the other ingredients, 
to be put into glass bottles and well corked, 
and exposed to a gentle heat for two months. 



O 



194 



To pickle Walnuts to eat like Mangoes. 
(queen anne's royal cookery book.) 



Take green walnuts before the shell is 
grown to any hardness in them, pick them from 
the stalks, and put them into cold water, and 
set them on a gentle fire till the outward skin 
begins to peel off. Then put them into a tub 
or pot, and put water and salt to them, chang- 
ing once a day for ten or twelve days till the 
bitterness and discolouring of the water be 
gone. Then take a good quantity of mustard 
seed, and beat it with vinegar till it becomes 
coarse mustard ; some cloves of garlic and 
ginger ; make a hole in each nut, and put in a 



195 

little of this. Then take white wine (and white 
wine vinegar) and boil it together, and as you 
are going to take it off the fire, put in pepper, 
ginger, cloves, and some of the mustard and 
garlic according to your discretion. Then cover 
the kettle till they are cold, then put them 
into a jar, bottle, or well-glazed pot, and keep 
them under the liquor, close tied down with 
leather for your use. 



o 2 



196 



Pickled Cabbage. 

(old-fashioned recipe.) 

Take 2 large heads of red cabbage, and 
slice them in a large dish ; then salt them well, 
and let them remain three days, occasionally 
mixing them up. The third day put them in 
a sieve to drain, and when well drained, put 
as much vinegar as will cover them ; add to 
it ginger and white pepper, and boil the three 
together. Let it remain until quite cold, then 
put it on the cabbage, and it will be ready for 
use in a few days. 



197 



To keep Green Peas. 

(excellent old recipe.) 

Shell and put them into a kettle of water ; 
when it boils, give them two or three turns 
only, and pour them into a cullender ; when 
the water drains oflF, turn them out on a dresser 
covered with a cloth, to dry properly. Then 
bottle them in wide-mouthed bottles, leaving 
room to pour clarified mutton suet upon them, 
an inch thick. Resin down the cork, and keep 
the bottles in a cellar. When they are to be 
used, boil the peas tender, with a bit of butter 
and a little mint. 



198 



To keep Mushrooms. 

(late sir GEORGE WARRENDER.) 

Take a basket (almost ^ bushel) of mush- 
rooms, pick them very clean, wash them several 
times in water, and let them dry on a cloth. 
Piit into a saucepan ^ lb. of butter, 3 lemons, 
and a little salt ; put your mushrooms into this 
saucepan, which must be placed upon a good fire. 
As soon as the mushrooms begin to boil, take 
them off and put them into very clean bottles, 
well corked, and tied down, to exclude the air ; 
then let them boil in boiling water for three- 
quarters of an hour. Be careful to let the bottles 
get cold before taking them out of the water. 



199 



Easy Method of producing Mushrooms. 

(AMERICAN RECIPE.) 



If the water wherein mushrooms have been 
steeped or washed be poured upon an old bed, or 
the broken parts of mushrooms strewed thereon, 
there will speedily arise a great number of 
mushrooms. 



200 



Vegetable Salad. 

(countess of WARWICK.) 

Take a good carrot and turnip, cut them 
in very small dice ; then blanch them (carrot 
about ten minutes, turnip not so long). Take 
also a nice beetroot and 2 good potatoes ; cut 
and cook them in the same way ; keep each 
separate on a napkin until the time for serv- 
ing, then mix all lightly together in some very 
nicely flavoured tartar sauce. Garnish with 
hard-boiled eggs and beetroot, and serve; the 
garnish can be varied with tomatoes or aspic 
jelly. 



201 



Salad. 

(miss berry, friend of 
horace walpole, lord orford.) 



Tarragon, chervil, burnet, parsley, soupgon of 
onion, chopped very small ; about 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of this, and 3 hard-boiled eggs ; three 
times as much oil as vinegar, or good cream 
instead, a little water to mix the eggs, and stir 
up well ; put in lettuce, endive, mustard and 
cress, tarragon vinegar, and plenty of mustard. 



202 



Tomato Salad. 

(viscountess combermere.) 



Take 2 nice tomatoes, cut them into round 
slices, place on a plate, sprinkle some pounded 
sugar, a little pepper, a spoonful of olive oil, 
and a tablespoonful of best vinegar over the 
tomatoes, and serve them up. 



203 



To keep Gooseberries or Grapes, etc., 
to make Tarts all the Winter. 

(queen anne's royal cookery book.) 



Take these fruits when at the full growth, 
but not ripe, and put them in glass bottles, and 
cork them close, and tie them over with leather, 
close, that no air can come into them ; then set 
them in a cold cellar, and keep them for your 
own use. So you may keep cherries or 
damsons. 



204 



A Succession of Potatoes. 

(mR. MURRAY, SCOTCH GARDENER AT 
METHLEY PARK. 1818.) 

In the beginning of May, take a quantity 
of the largest ox noble potatoes, lay them on 
a dry chamber floor, and turn them over fre- 
quently in the course of the summer, rubbing 
off all the sprouts as they appear. Towards 
the latter end of September have ready a few 
boxes ; at the bottom of each put six inches of 
decayed leaves, then lay on the potatoes close 
to each other ; then another layer of decayed 



f 



20S 

leaves, and another of the potatoes, until the 
box is full to the top. Set the boxes in some dry * 
shed or chamber, and give no water ; they will 
be fine potatoes by December. Should succes- 
sion be required, have some more potatoes 
ready to be put in about November. 



/ 



206 



Management of Brussels Sprouts. 

(meneworth castle.) 

Sow the first time early in the spring ; l;he 
same at intervals of three weeks till mid- 
summer. Plant out the seedlings in beds or 
otherwise. Pinch off the tops of the plants 
a fortnight before the rosettes are ready to be 
gathered. Only a few crowns should be taken 
off each plant at a gathering, in order not to 
injure the plant. The smaller the crowns are, 
the better. They are ready at Brussels in 
August and September, and continue till April. 



207 

To restrain their tendency to flower in the 
spring they are taken up and transplanted, 
being laid slantwise in a north border, as 
brocoli or other greens are. 



208 



A rich White Sauce for cold Entries. 

(MRS. ALISON.) 

2 good tablespoonfuls of flour, and a pint of 
good white stock, in which put any trimmings 
of mushrooms, 2 bay leaves, and some sweet 
herbs ; reduce it one-third, pass it through a 
tammy, add to it a good spoonful of cream 
and a little tarragon vinegar ; do not make it 
hot after the vinegar is added. 



r 



209 



Lobster Sauce. 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 



The lobster should be chopped much 
smaller than is generally done, and the sauce 
should be composed of three parts cream to one 
of butter ; a little salt and slight infusion of 
cayenne pepper. The whole of the inside and 
coral should be beaten up with the cream 
and butter, and the lobster then put in. 



210 



Rich Brown Mushroom Sauce. 

(old recipe.) 

Having some stalks or parings of mush- 
rooms, put them in a stewpan with a little 
butter, shallot, savory, and parsley. Let them 
simmer half an hour in brown gravy, in which 
a little carrot has been put, then strairf the gravy, 
and thicken it ready for use. 



211 



Badminton. 

(admiral sir e. inglefield.) 

Bottle of vin ordinaire (Bordeaux), lO or 12 
lumps of sugar, a slice of cucumber paring or 
sprig of borage, a thin slice of lemon the whole 
length of the fruit, and a very little nutmeg. 
Just before use, when all well shaken up, add 
a bottle of soda water. 



p 2 



212 



Badminton. 

(another recipe. 

admiral] SIR E. INGLEFIELD.) 

I bottle of claret and 2 bottles of soda water, 
or less if ice is put in, one wineglass of brandy, a 
slice of lemon, and some borage. Sweeten to 
taste with lump sugar. To be iced for quite 
an hour before wanted. 



213 



Moselle Cup. 

(lord MARCUS HILL.) 

A bottle ot Moselle,^ J pint of sherry, peel 
of a lemon, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, bunch 
of borage, 3 leaves of verbena ; well iced. 



214 



Rich Orangeade. 

(Ci^NADA. 1863.) 

Steep the yellow rinds of 6 China and 2 
Seville oranges in a quart of boiling water, 
closely covered up for five or six hours; then 
make a syrup with I lb. of sugar and 3 pints 
of water ; mix all together, press in the juice of 
a dozen China oranges and 2 Seville ones, 
from which the rind is to be taken ; stir the 
whole well together, and add a little orange- 
flower water ; 2 lemons may be used, but the 
flavour of the oranges must predominate. 



215 



Orgeat 

(old recipe.) 

Take a pound of sweet almonds, blanched in 
cold water ; pound them well ; likewise a few 
bitter almonds done the same. While pound- 
ing, by degrees pour 2 quarts of spring water 
in which lemon peel has been steeped, and 
sugar to your taste ; mix all well together, and 
strain through a flannel bag. 



2l6 



Orgeat Paste. 

(CANADA. T863.) 

Blanched and powdered almonds, 3 lbs. ; 
blanched and powdered bitter almonds, i lb. or 
less ; powdered loaf sugar, 3 lbs. ; orange-flower 
water to mix. Beat them in a mortar to a 
stiff paste, then put them in pots. When 
wanted for use, put a little into some water, 
mix, and strain through a bit of gauze. 



217 



Orange Bitters. 

(from an old MS. BOOK, 1600, AT EAST HAMPSTEAD. 
DOWAGER MARCHIONESS OF DOWNSHIRK) 



Peel of 24 Seville oranges, ^ oz. of nutmeg 
and cochineal, and snake grass, i oz. gentian 
root, I handful camomile flowers, ^ oz. saffron, 
J oz. zideary root^ Bruise all these, put 
them into 2 quart bottles, and fill up with best 
brandy. Let the bitters stand three weeks, and 
shake every day. 

* Herbalists have the two ingredients mentioned, snake 
grass and zideary root. 



2l8 



Ginger Cordial. 

(the rev. GODFREY ALEXANDER.) 

To every pound of ripe white currants, 
picked from the stalks and well bruised, add 
I quart of the best white brandy and the rind 
of a lemon. Stand five or six days, then strain, 
and to every quart add i lb. of lump sugar 
powdered fine, and i oz. of white ginger 
pounded. Let all stand again a night or two, 
then strain and bottle. If too strong, add more 
fruit. A very few bitter almonds improve the 
cordial. 



219 



Barley Water. 

Excellent, 
(HON. LADY STUART.) 

3 spoonfuls of pearl barley, the rind of a 
lemon peeled very thin, a quart of boiling 
water poured over it, and a little fine sugar ; 
cover it up close till cool, then pour it off. 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Adelaide sandwiches 73 

Amber pudding, Welsh 55 

Anchovies, Spanish recipe for 145 

Anchovy butter 146 

Apples k la Frangipane 50 

Aspic jelly 180 

Baba 47 

Badminton 211 

Badminton (another recipe) 212 

Bakewell pudding 56 

Barley water 219 

Bayonne method of curing hams . . . 65 

Beef, pressed 69 

Beef-steak pudding 80 

Biscuits, brown bread 45 

Biscuit glac6 17 

Biscuits, thin 44 



222 

PAGE 

Bitters, orange 217 

Boorgoo 147 

Bouch^es des cervelles 160 

Bouch^es k la Morglas 167 

Boudin de volaille Allemande 15S 

Brawn, ox cheek 75 

Bread cake 39 

Bread, to make, with German yeast ... 34 

Bread, Queen Anne's French 37 

Breakfast cakes or rolls 35 

Brocon soup 97 

Broth, barley 116 

Broth, mutton no 

Broth, strong savoury . .106 

Brussels sprouts, management of 206 

Buns, Richmond saffron 36 

Butter, anchovy . 146 

Butter, green . . '. . -143 

Butter, Spanish 144 



Cabbage, pickled 196 

Cake, to make a good 40 

Cake, ice for 41 

Cake, saffron 46 

Cake, sponge 48 

Cakes or rolls, breakfast 35 

Cakes, small 49 



223 

PAGE 

Calf's head pie 77 

Capuchin sauce 81 

Caramel Cream 23 

Carotte k la Flamande 179 

Cervelles, bouchees des 160 

Charter pie 76 

Cheese cakes, lemon 58 

Cheese, Cayenne 142 

Cheese puffs 121 

Cheese soup k la Bibron 96 

Cheese straws 122 

Chestnuts, compote of 26 

Chestnuts, German way of roasting a fowl with . 1 74 

Chicken soup 109 

Chiffonade, potage 99 

Chigwell or German puddings 54 

Chocolate cream ic 

Chocolate, to make 3 

Chocolate pudding 22 

Chutnee ... 191 

Chutnee sauce, Indian 192 

Chutnee, tomato 193 

Clear soup with omelette 100 

Cock-a-leekie 104 

Cocoa from the nibs i 

Codlings, to pickle 188 

Cod's head soup (brown) 91 

Coffee, to make 4 



224 

PAGE 

Collops, excellent Scotch 165 

Cordial, ginger 218 

Cream, clotted 29 

Cream, custard 20 

Cream, Devonshire 28 

Cream, filbert ice 18 

Cream, lemon 16 

Cream, method of increasing the quantity of . . 30 

Cream, orange 19 

Cream, Russian 21 

Cream, tea 27 

Cream and wafers 24 

Cr6me de tapioca 93 

Croquettes, potato 129 

Croustades k la Reine 168 

Cucumbers, Russian, to pickle 190 

Currants, sugared 11 

Curried spinach 138 

Curry, Lord Clive's 139 

Custard, iced, with fruit 25 

Cutlets, chicken 166 

Cutlets, haricot mutton 162 

Cutlets k la Reform 163 

Cutlets, sauce for 164 



DampfNudels 61 

Deer horns, jelly from 181 



225 

PAGE 

Devonshire cream 28 

Dolma icj 

Dolma of vine leaves ic2 

Dressed eggs . i3c 

Eastern cookery : 

Boorgoo 147 

Dolma 151 

Dolma of vine leaves 152 

Kebab 148 

Kebab, Tengdre 1 50 

Keihma icc 

Keinft^ . . 154 

Tomato patties . . .153 

Eggs, to broil 187 

Eggs, dressed . . . ... .185 

Egg sandwiches 186 

Eggs and tomatoes 184 

Faisan k la Tregothran 173 

Filbert ice cream 18 

Fish, Indian fashion 70 

Fish soup (white) 89 

Fowl, German way of roasting 174 

Frangipane, apples k la 50 

Fritters, vine-leaf 63 

Fruit with iced custard 25 

Q 



226 

German or Chigwell puddings 54 

German pudding, plain 51 

German or Spanish puffs 64 

German way of roasting fowl 1 74 

German yeast ^32 

Gingerbread nuts 42 

Ginger cordial 218 

Gooseberries or grapes, to keep .... 203 

Gooseberry fool 31 

Green asparagus soup 94 

Green butter 143 

Green peas, to keep 197 

Groseilles de Bar . 5 

Grouse souffle 119 

Ham, a way of cooking 67 

Hams, Bayonne method of curing .... 65 

Ham pancakes 140 

Haricot mutton cutlets 162 

Hindoo relish 123 

Hotch-potch 114 

Ice for a cake 41 

Iced custard with fruit 25 

Indian chutnee sauce . . . . . . . 192 

Imperial yeast 32 

Italian stewed rice 125 



227 

PAGE 

Jelly, aspic i8o 

Jelly from deer horns . / i8i 

Jelly, orange 12 

Jelly, mountain ash berry 14 



Kebab 148 

Kebab, Teng6r6 1 50 

Keihma 155 

Keinft^ 154 

Kippered salmon 68 



Larks, to roast with bacon 170 

Lemon cheese cakes 58 

Lemon cream (the old Llanover) . . . 16 

Lobster sauce 209 

Louisa pudding 59 



Macaroni pudding 134 

Marmalade, orange 7 

Mayonnaise 137 

Mayonnaise sauce 86 

Melon, to preserve 9 

Milanaise, risotto k la 124 

Mock turtle soup 1 1 1 

Mock turtle soup, clear 112 

Morglas, bouch^es k la 167 



228 

PAGE 

Moselle cup 213 

Mountain ash berry jelly 14 

Mousse de volaille 1 56 

Mushroom omelette 178 

Mushrooms, to keep 198 

Mushrooms, easy method of producing . . .199 

Mushroom sauce 210 

Mutton broth no 

Mutton cutlets, haricot 162 



CEufs k la Lady Evelyn 183 

Omelette, clear soup with 100 

Omelette for soup loi 

Omelette, mushroom 178 

Orangeade, rich 214 

Orange bitters 217 

Orange cream 19 

Orange-flower syrup 10 

Orange jelly . . .12 

Orange marmalade 7 

Orgeat .215 

Orgeat paste 216 

Ox cheek brawn . -75 



Pancakes, ham 140 

Parmesan, souffle de 120 



229 



PAGE 



Partridges k la Sierra Morena 171 

Pit^s, veal 13s 

Patties, tomato 153 

Peas, green, to keep 197 

Peas, old, to stew 128 

Persian recipe for boiling rice 126 

Petits pois h. la demi-bourgeoise . . . . 127 

Petits soufflds k la Frangaise 52 

Piemontese tartlets 136 

Pie, calf s head 77 

Pie, charter 76 

Pie, pigeon 78 

Pie, Roman 79 

Pomme de terre souffle 132 

Pork, to roast a leg of 176 

Potage chiifonade 99 

Potage h. la Reine 102 

Potato chips 131 

Potato croquettes 129 

Potatoes k la Lyonnaise 130 

Potatoes, a succession of . . . . . . 204 

Pressed beef 69 

Pudding, Bakewell 56 

Pudding, beef-steak 80 

Pudding, chocolate . 22 

Puddings, German or Chigwell .... 54 

Pudding, German, plain 51 

Pudding, the Louisa 59 



230 

PAGE 

Pudding, nfacaroni 134 

Pudding, plum 57 

Pudding, Welsh amber 55 

Pudding h la Richelieu 182 

Puffs, cheese 121 

Puffs, German or Spanish 64 



Queen Anne's French bread 



37 



Rarebit, Welsh 141 

Relish, Hindoo . . / . . . . 123 

Rice, Italian stewed 125 

Rice, Persian recipe for boiling 126 

Richmond saffron buns 36 

Richelieu, pudding k la 182 

Rich orangeade 214 

Risotto k la Milanaise 1 24 

Rolls or breakfast cakes 35 

Roman pie 79 

Rusks 43 

Russian cream 21 

Saffron buns, Richmond 36 

Saffron cake 46 

Salad 201 



231 

PAGE 

Salad, tomato 202 

Salad, vegetable 200 

Salmon, kippered 68 

Sandwiches, Adelaide 73 

Sandwiches, egg 186 

Sandwiches, small roll 72 

Sauce, capuchin . . 81 

Sauce for cutlets k la Reform 163 

Sauce, Indian chutnee . . . . 192 

Sauce, lobster 209 

Sauce, mayonnaise 86 

Sauce, rich brown mushroom . . . . .210 

Sauce, richS^hite 208 

Sauce, tartar 85 

Sauce, tomato 82 

Sauce, vinaigrette 84 

Sauce for wild duck • . 83 

Savoury vermicelli 177 

Scotch collops, excellent 165 

Small cakes 49 

Souch^, water 105 

Souffle, grouse .119 

Souffle de Parmesan 120 

Souffle, pomme de terre 132 

Souffle, savoury 118 

Souffles, petits, k la Frangaise . . . .52 

Soup (cheese) k la Bibron 96 

Soup, brocon • . -97 



232 

PAGE 

Soup, chicken 109 

Soup, clear mock turtle 112 

Soup, clear, with omelette 100 

Soup, cod's head (brown) 91 

Soup, fish (white) 89 

Soup k la Flamande -95 

Soup, green asparagus 94 

Soup, mock turtle 1 1 1 

Soup, omelette for loi 

Soup k la Reine ... ... 103 

Soup with sago 88 

Soup, white (with herbs) 87 

Soupe k la bonne femme 108 

Spanish butter 144 

Spanish recipe for anchovies 145 

Spinach, curried 138 

Sponge cake 48 

Stewed rice, Italian 125 

Strawberries, to preserve whole 13 

Straws, cheese 122 

Strong savoury broth 106 

Sugared currants 11 

Supreme de volaille 161 

Syrup, orange-flower 10 



Tapioca, creme de 93 

Tartar sauce 85 



233 

PAGE 

Tartlets, Piemontese 136 

Tea cream ^ . 27 

Timbales k la Parisienne 159 

Tomato chutnee 193 

Tomatoes and eggs 184 

Tomato patties 153 

Tomato salad 202 

Tomato sauce 82 



Veal pit^s • • 135 

Vegetable salad . . . . . 200 

Vermicelli, savoury 177 

Vinaigrette sauce 84 

Vine-leaf fritters ........ 63 

Vine leaves, dolma of 152 

Volaille, supreme de 161 

Wafers and cream 24 

Walnuts, to pickle like mangoes 194 

Water souch^ 105 

Way of cooking a ham 67 

Welsh amber pudding 55 

Welsh rarebit 141 

White sauce, rich . . . . . 208 

R 



234 

PAGE 

White soup with herbs Sy 

White soup with sago 88 

Wild duck, sauce for 83 



Yeast, imperial 32 



LONDON : PRINTED BY 

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE 

AND PARLIAMENT STREET 



J 



