

















\ 







/ 



THE 



Oyster Epicure 



"An oyster, sir, is one of tlie elements of 
social existence, a delicacy of no age, sex, or 
condition, but patent to the universal family of 
man. Good in a scallop, better in a stew, 
best of all in the shell ; good in pickle, in 
curry, in sauce ; good at luncheon, before 
dinner, at supper ; good to entertain a friend, 
good to eat by yourself; good when you are 
hungry ; good, moreover, when you are not." 
— The Irish Oyster-Eater. 



THE 



OYSTER EPICURE 



A COLLATION OF AUTHORITIES 



GASTRONOMY AND DIETETICS 



OYSTER ^y' 

" Oysters — these things mW have been 
, ■• Made in heaven " 

j-- / U —Richard Bentley 

I^JJ - 








NEW YORK Ni^^O- 
WHITE, STOKES, & A L LTE'N 
1883 






i' 



.<\ 



^c^ 




Copyright, 1SS3, 
By White, Stokes, & Allen. 



V^ON^^tvv V fAvi^ty^wv. ^Y,\>VA^v,^. ^o> vvtv, %-^.. %o«,-\<i^. 



PREFATORY NOTE. 



" Wise people eat oysters and eschew pills " — to cor- 
roborate this truth by good testimony is the aim of these 
pages. The text is taken from a book that, on the subject 
of oyster-eating, is quoted as a most trustworthy authority. ^ 
But, to correct popular errors, and to set up rules that will 
be accepted as " golden," it is necessary to hear all sides, 
even those that disagree. The thoughtful reader will 
quickly discern the undisputed points, and will profit even 
from the disputed ones. He may also trust more or less 
familiar names of good standing. On the " Dietetics of the 
Oyster," no better summary of evidence could be found 
than that by the Rev. Samuel Lockwood, Ph.D.,^ himself 
in this country a leading authority. It should be stated 
that these pages virtually form the introductory part of a 
general hand-book of the oyster (preparing for the press), 
treating the subject, also, in its industrial, commercial, and 
scientific bearings, with references to the best sources. 
The advance issue of this " introductory " is a bid for the 
" popular taste," on the principle of the " half dozen on 
the deep." May it serve as the " preprandial whet " ! 

C. 
New York, Sept. 3, 1SS3. 

1 Lucullus : or, Palatable Essays, in which are merg-ed "The 
Oyster," " The Lobster," and " Sport and its Pleasures " Tbv Major 
H. Byng-Hall]. London, 187S. 

2 From the " Oyster Interests of New Jersey," in the Fifth Annual 
Report of the Bureau of Statistics of Labor and Industries of New 
Jersey. Trenton, 1SS2. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



Page 

Gastronomy of the Oyster 3 

1. When in Season 3 

2. How to Eat it 6 

3. How to Serve it 9 

4. What to Drink with it 14 

5. How Many to Eat 16 

6. How to Open it 18 

7. Roasted in its own Shell .... 20 
7. Which to Choose, and Where ... 22 

a. In the United States 22 

h. In New York 26 

c. In Boston 28 

d. In Philadelphia 29 

e. In Europe ....... 29 

f. In Great Britain 30 

g. In London ....... 30 

h. In France ....... 32 

i. In Paris ...,.,, 32 

Dietetics of the Oyster 33 

Famous Oyster-Eaters 53 

The Happiness of the Oyster .... 59 



THE OYSTER EPICURE, 



GASTRONOMY OF THE OYSTER. 



I. When in Season. 

•• No-.v the fishes called oysters 
Are in their operative moistures; 
For now the month hath yet an r in it, 
Astrologers do see so far in 't." 

— •' Poor Robin Almatiack," 1685. 

•• These four sad months, wherein is mute 
That one mysterious letter, that has power 
To call the oyster from the deep." 

Albeit our oisters are generallie forborne in the 
foure hot moneths of the yeare, that is to sale, Male, 
June, Julie, and August, which are void of the letter 
R. ; yet in some places they be continuallie eaten, 
when they be kept in pits, as I have knowen by expe- 
rience. — W?n. Harrison. 



September: — Just as oysters are to be had, but not 
in perfection. November: — The oyster in perfect or- 
der. March: — When oysters are at their best and 
fattest. — " The Epicure's Year Book;' 1868. 



4 THE OYSTER EPICURE. 

Remarking on the old ordinance against oysters, 
Grimod de la Reyniere' insisted that, out of regard to 
their defective condition, they should be excluded from 
the epicurean table from the beginning of May till the 
beginning of December. " Nous ne conseillerons ^per- 
sonne d'en manger en Septembre ; elles n'y sont ni as- 
sez fraiches ni assez grasses pour piquer la sensualite 
d'un gourmand. Ce n'est gu^re qu'au commencement 
de Decembre qu'elles sont vraiment dignes de figurer 
sur la table." ^ — JeaffresoiCs " Book about the Tabled 



Oysters are in season almost the year through, 
except when spawning; then they are milky, watery, 
poor, and considered unfit and unwholesome food. 
The months of their spawning appear in May, June, 
and July. It is said that planted oysters, that is, those 
that have been transplanted from their native beds and 
placed and fattened on others prepared for them, are 
never milky ; and, no doubt, by their being thus re- 
moved or disturbed before they have commenced to 
spawn, has caused them to stop this process, while in 
their natural beds they were always .subject to this 
objection. Several years ago oysters were seldom seen 
for sale in their spawning season ; it was not against 
the law (as it is now) , but the people would not buy 
or have them. — I>e Voe's ''Market Assistant y 

1 Author of the Almanack des Gourmands, and of the Manuel 
des Amphitrlons; as famous for his gourmandise as for his brill- 
iant ^astronomical writings. Born 175S; died 1S30. 

2 We advise no one to eat them in September; they are then 
neither fresh nor fat enough to tempt the palate of the epicure. 
They are rarely worthy of a place on the table before the beginning 
of December. 



WHEN IN SEASON. 5 

Every one is familiar with the saying that oysters 
ought only to be eaten in the months which have an r 
in them, it being generally supposed that they are un- 
wholesome as food at other times. 

No doubt, as a general rule, oysters are not in per- 
fection between the months of May and August, though 
the impatience of the public has claimed the last-named 
month as an oyster month, and the 5th of August be- 
gins the season. — Edinburgh Review. 



The Romans had respect for economy and decency, 
knowing well that when spawning the bivalve should not 
be eaten. They recognized as close-time the warm term, 
our r-less months, and it is written by a mediaeval bard : 

" Mensibus erratis 
Vos ostrea manducatis." 

Which may be rendered thus : 

" Lapsing the r-less months 'tis meet 
You may oysters freely eat." 

These mollusks, however, may be eaten with safety, 
even in the r-less months, if they are not in a spawning 
state, for oysters sometimes have an off-year, owing to 
causes not always apparent. Besides, spawning can 
sometimes be prevented, as by removing to deeper or 
colder water. With favoring conditions this bivalve 
may be in prime flesh even through May, June, July, 
and August, and the presence of immature eggs may 
be even an advantage to the epicure. But all this sup- 
poses it not to have reached the state when, in oyster- 
man's phrase, it is " in milk." — Lockwood. 



6 THE OYSTER EPICURE. 

2. How to Eat It. 

See also ^' How to Serve It^ 

♦•Take care that they be eaten off the deep shell." 

— Irisli Oyster-Eater, 
" Bathed in their own liquor." — Sir Henry Thompson, 

Gourmets ^ and epicures eat the oyster in its natural 
state, except that the beard is taken away. In England 
it is eaten with pepper, in Holland with vinegar, in 
Germany frequently with lemon-juice; but I am of 
opinion, and am convinced, that when taken with the 
liquor they still contain, they are more digestible and 
more tasty. — ''LumllusP 



The ancients, our teachers in all arts, but especially 
in aesthetics, did not bolt the oyster, but masticated it. 
With true epicurean tact, they always extracted the full 
enjoyment out of the good things set before them. 
Not so we ; most of us now bolt them ; but this is a 
mistake, for the oyster has a much finer flavor, and is 
far more nourishing, when well masticated. — ''Liiacllus.'''' 

1 Gourmet is a good English word in its origin, but it is doubtful 
whether it will ever pass current among us in the sense which the 
French have put upon it. — Kettner\'; '* Book of the TableJ" 

The difference between a gourmet and gourmand we take to be 
this : a gourmet is he who selects, for his nice and learned delecta- 
tion, the most choice delicacies, prepared in the most scientific man- 
ner; whereas, tlie gourmand bears a closer analogy to that class of 
great eaters ill-naturodly (we dare say) denominated or classed with 
aldermen. — Hayward*s '*Ari of Dining-." 



NO IV TO EAT IT *j 

Though he relished oyster-sauce, and commended 
oysters as a flavoring ingredient of beefsteak pudding, 
Dr. Kitchiner resembled most epicures of his time in 
valuing the "native" chiefly for its power to revive a 
jaded appetite, when taken in the freshness of life, be- 
fore the advent of soup. " Those," he observes, " who 
wish to enjoy this delicious restorative in its utmost 
perfection must eat it the moment it is opened, with 
its own gravy in the under shell ; if not eaten while 
absohctcly alive, its flavor and spirit are lost. The true 
lover of an oyster will have some regard for the feelings 
of his little favorite, and will never abandon it to the 
mercy of a bungling operator." — JcaffresoiCs "-Book 
about the Tabled 



As to such heresies as pepper and vinegar let them 
be banished from the table whilst oysters are upon it. 
These charming moUusks should always be taken un- 
mitigated, without losing the delicacy of their flavor by 
a mixture with any condiment whatever, except their 
native juice. Alas ! there are few who know how to 
appreciate and make use of these natural advantages. 
Scarcely one man in a thousand knows how to open an 
oyster, and still less how to eat it. The ordinary sys- 
tem which is employed at the oyster-shops is radically 
false, for all the juice is lost [this refers to the English 
mode] , and the oyster is left to become dry and insipid 
on the flat shell, which effectually answers as a drain to 
convey off" the liquid, which is to the oyster what the 
milk is to the cocoanut. — J. G. Wood. 



S THE OYSTER EPICURE. 

Eat raw oysters as plain and free from condiments 
as possible, and always on the deep shell in their own 
liquor. The average American orders a dozen on the 
half shell, and then drowns his pets in vinegar, pepper, 
salt, horse-radish, etc., washing them down with some 
malt beverage, pays his check and disappears. The 
next day he goes through the same performance, and 
the not over-conscientious oysterman, knowing his 
weakness for condiments, can easily palm off on him a 
" Rockaway Cull" for a Blue Point or a Green Point; 
or he may give him a " deep-water native" for almost 
any particular kind or brand he may want, and he can- 
not detect the difference in their flavor, owing to his 
excessive use of condiments. A little lemon-juice is all 
that is necessary, if you will not eat your saline dainties 
natural. 

The heartless oyster-fiend who opens your oysters 
by S7nashing the shell should be avoided, for its cruelty, 
to say the least. We can forgive him for spattering 
our clothing with shells, mud, and dirty water ; but 
filling our mouths with these things is pure ugliness. 
Order a quart of bivalves to be sent home, and this 
oyster butcher endangers the health of your family should 
any of them swallow a particle of the shell. The true 
lover of an oyster should have some feeling for his little 
favorite, and patronize establishments only where they 
contrive to open them (Boston fashion) so dexterously 
that the mollusk is hardly conscious he has been re- 
moved from his lodging *' till he feels the teeth of the 
piscivorous gourmet tickling him to death." — Murrey's 
" Valuable Cooking Receipts. ^"^ 



HOW TO SERVE IT, 



3. How to Serve It. 

" On the deep." 

Aviericaii and French Fashion, 

It has become quite fashionable to serve raw oysters 
as one of the preliminaries to a dinner-party ; some- 
times *on small plates, sometimes on the half-shell. 
They are seasoned by each guest according to his own 
taste. — Marion Harland. 



When well washed, open them, detaching the upper 
shell, then detach them from the under shell, but leave 
them on it ; place on a dish, and leave the upper shell 
on every oyster,' and serve thus. — Blot. 



Not until just before serving should they be opened. 
Marketmen often furnish some one to do this. Six 
large oysters are usually allowed each person. Left in 
half the shell, they are placed on a dinner-plate, with a 
thin slice of lemon in the centre of the dish. — Parloa. 



The English are rather peculiar in their mode of 
serving oysters after they are opened, for they always 
leave them on the flat shell from which the liquor drains' 
away. The Scotch and French, on the contrary, lay 
the fish on the hollow half of the shells, by which 
means the brine, or " oyster-broth," as it is sometimes 
called, is retained. — CasselVs '•'- Domestic Diciionary.'''' 

1 French style; also recommended in '■^ Breviaire du Gasiro- 



lO THE OYSTER EPICURE. 

Oysters should be served in their deep shells with 
their own liquor, and eaten with a fork ' ; cayenne pep- 
per, quarters of lemon, brown bread and butter, form 
their most proper accompaniments. — Fi'ancatelli. 



Oysters should always be eaten the instant they are 
opened. They are served often before the soup, in the 
first course of a dinner, and are arranged usually in as 
many plates as there are guests at the table. 

In England, oysters are served in their flat shells ; 
they are accompanied by brown bread and butter, 
pepper, and vinegar, or quarters of lemon. 

In France they are served in their deep shell in their 
own liquor. — Mrs. Hemy Reeve. 



The Morris Rivers or the Scotch Coves, the Blue 
Points and Shrewsburys, are all small and fat, and of 
good shape to serve in the shell. And with all the 
devices of China, glass, and ice, to serve raw oysters 
in, they never have the same taste out of the shell that 
they have when first opened and sprinkled with the 
juice from half a lemon. See that the shells are clean 
before opening the oysters. Put the piece of lemon in 
the middle.— Whitehead'' s '' Hotel Meat Cook,'' 

1 The smallest fork is for the raw oysters, -which generally pre- 
cede a handsome dinner; the next smallest for the fish, and soon 
In eating oysters, the shell is steadied on the plate witli the fing^ers 
of the left hand, and the oysters are not cut, but eaten whole, — 
Clara de Vere, 



BOW TO SERVE IT. n 

In Flanders the oysters are never served without a 
plate of tartines beicrrees (slices of bread and butter), 
cut in finger lengths, and piled on the plates cross- 
wise, like ladies' fingers. On another plate are served 
lemons cut in halves. There is also mignonette pepper 
in small pepper-boxes. But the true connoisseur hardly 
ever uses either pepper or lemon, which affect the 
natural property of the oyster. Only the tartine 
beurre is tolerated by him. — '' Breviaire du Gastro- 
nome.'''' 



The one plate which heralds dinner indigenous to 
our country is also one of its own best products — the 
oyster. But this is scarcely a Jiors-d ceuvre. In itself 
a single service of exquisite quality, served with attend- 
ant graces of delicate French vinegar, brown bread and 
butter, and a glass of light chablis, for those who take it, 
the half-dozen natives occupying the hollow shells, and 
bathed in their own liquor, hold rank of a very different 
kind to that of the miscellaneous assortment of tit-bits 
alluded to. Oysters are in fact the first dish of dinner, 
and not the precursor ; the first chapter, and not the 
advertisement. — Sir H. Thompson's * ' Food and Feed- 
ing:' 

When raw oysters are served on a table, at which 
there are gentlemen only, some shallots, chopped fine 
and gently bruised in a coarse towel, are served with 
them, on a separate dish. The taste of the shallot 
agrees very well v/ith that of the oyster. Tarter-sauce 
may be served instead of shallots. — Blot. 



12 THE OYSTER EPICURE. 

The best way to serve raw oysters is on the half- 
shell. Wash the outside of the oysters ; open them, 
detaching the flat shell; then detach them from the 
deep shell, but leave them on it. Serve five or six on 
a plate with quarter of a lemon in the centre. Eat with 
salt, pepper, and lemon-juice, or vinegar. In serving 
them without the shells, the most attractive way is in a 
dish of ice made by freezing water in a tin form shaped 
like a salad-bowl. — Goodhobne' s " Domestic Cyclop.'''^ 



They are commonly served either on the half-shell 
or in a shallow plate, swimming in their own juice, for 
an evening collation ; or, as one course in the me7iii of 
a stately dinner, they are served in blocks of ice 
hollowed out for the purpose, or frozen in the shape of a 
salad-bowl or other sightly dish, so as to contain them. 

For the first method, wash the shells clean, open 
them with a pointed oyster-knife, detach the oyster from 
the flat shell and lay that aside ; then detach the oyster 
from the deep shell, but leave it there in its own juice. 

Select the roundest shell, put it on the centre of a 
dinner-plate, and range the others around it like the 
spokes of a wheel. 

Serve with a quarter of a lemon, or a small saucer 
containing lemon-juice, and pepper, vinegar, horse- 
radish, or other condiment, to the taste. 

A dainty relish is made as follows : Chop as finely as 
possible one onion, of medium size, and enough parsley 
to make an equal bulk. Put these into a towel, dip it 
into cold water, wrins: it well, so as to remove the rank 



HO W TO SEE VE IT. 



13 



juice of the onion; then take it out, add the juice of a 
lemon, a pinch of cayenne pepper, a little salt, and 
enough vinegar to make it about as thick as jjrepared 
horse radish. 

Another delicate dressing for raw oysters is a Mayon- 
naise sauce, mixed with capers and shallots, or small 
button onions, chopped very fine or bruised in a 
mortar. — Caterer and Household Magazine, 



For a dinner there is no more effective way of serving 
raw oysters than in a boat of ice. Select a large block 
of ice of crystal clearness. With a hot flat-iron melt a 
large enough place in the top to hold the oysters, then 
chip it from the sides until you have shaped it like a 
boat. Keep it where it may not melt. The oysters 
should be well drained, seasoned with pepper and salt, 
and placed in the ice-boat. Just before dinner is served, 
arrange a bed of fresh green geranium leaves upon a 
low platter and place the boat upon it, propping it up, 
if necessary, with a few small lumps of ice hidden 
among the leaves. Twine delicate green vines prettily 
over the boat, and arrange a circle of vivid scarlet 
geraniums upon the platter around the base of the 
boat, or use halves or quarters of lemons as a garnish. 
— Cat her me Stuart. 



Cold Slaw. — Shred tender white cabbage extremely 
fine, put it into a bowl, sprinkle with salt, mince half a 
pod of red pepper very small, and add that and vinegar 
enough to moisten [or some other dressing]. Set on 
the table in pickle dishes or in individual deep scal- 
lops. — Whitehead. 



14 THE OYSTER EPICURE. 



4. What to Drink with It. 

** A glass of light Chablis." — Sir Henry Thompson. 
*' Une dcmi-bouteille de Graves." — Charles Monselet. 

Hock or Sauterne go with the oysters and fish. 
. . . Chablis should be brought in with the oysters. 
— '■'■The Tunes' Receipts.'''' 



With the oysters following salmon or turbot appear 
the grand rather dry or liquorous white wines of Bor- 
deaux, which we prefer to iced champagne used in the 
North. — Mah'ezin and Feret^ *' Me doc et ses vins.'''' 



With raw oysters, Chablis or Chambertin is especially 
nice, . . . or White Bordeaux (dry), Burgundy, Rhine, 
Hungarian, or Moselle chilled (in colored green or 
yellow glasses) . — Catherine Stuart. 



Where the means allow, light continental wines, such 
as Chablis, Sauterne, Mousseux, Marsault, or Medoc, 
still Champagne, Moselle, or any light Rhenish wine, 
and failing any of these, Madeira or Sherry, are placed 
upon the table. In this list are contained the names of 
such wines only as are best suited to enhance the taste 
of the oyster, and to assist digestion. Of spirits, only 
good English gin, genuine Schiedam, or Irish or 
Scotch whiskey, are admissible, as rum and brandy, 
taken upon oysters, will almost always be sure to make 
them indigestible ; and liqicetcrs are quite out of place. 
— '■'■Lticullus.'''* 



WHAT TO DRINK WITH IT. 15 

Oysters are capital things with which to begin a 
[French] breakfast' for they serve to "open" your 
appetite in the most fascinating way. It is ahnost need- 
less to say that with raw oysters white wine should be 
drunk in preference to red. Chablis and Graves, both 
of which are white Bordeaux wines, may be had at 
moderate prices. Those who like bottled beer may 
find it in all Paris restaurants ; but French cookery and 
French wines have so long run together in harmony 
that it may be best not to divide them. — Dickens^ 
*' Dictionary of Paris P 



Chablis, Arbois, or some other good brand of white 
wine, even Graves or Rliinewine, should always be 
served with oysters ; but after these we cannot go back 
to the wines ordinarily served after soup. As it is 
necessary to continue with a fine quality, oysters at din- 
ner lead to great expense. Besides, the oyster, hav- 
ing nourishing qualities, takes the edge off that appe- 
tite which is essential to do justice to an elaborate 
dinner. At breakfast the mollusk may act as an appe- 
tizer, when followed by cold dishes, and then the same 
white wine can be served throughout the meal. We 
can sanction the oyster only at breakfast, when ladies 
are not en grande toilette. It is only at a cosey and 
intimate repast that it should R^^e^iV en deshabille.'^ — 
''Breviaire da Gastroti07ne.'" 

1 A French dejeuner a la fourchetie is almost a "set" dinner 
minus the soup. The Frenchman hmches at twelve; he has had 
nothing save his morning caje an lait, with a modicum of bread 
and butter. 

'Or, as the San Francisco artists technically expressed it — in 
a recent menu — "semi nude." 



1 6 THE OYSTER EPICURE. 

5. How Many to Eat. 

'•'Appetite comes with eating^,' says Angeston. " — Rabelais. 

"Surfeiting, 
The appetite may sicken and so die." — Twelfth Night. 

Oysters are the usual opening to a winter breakfast ; 
indeed, they are almost indispensable.' But this is 
often a dear introduction through the indiscretion of 
guests, who generally pride themselves on packing 
them by the hundred in their vainglorious stomachs. 
Insipid pleasure, which brings no real enjoyment, and 
often embarrasses an estimable host. — "■Alma?iach des 
Gotmnands,'''' 1803. 

Four, five, or six of these small oysters make a plate 
to serve preliminary to the dinner ; fashion, it is said, 
ever interfering in this small matter, and making the 
proper number at present four. — Whitehead'' s " Hotel 
Meat Cooking,''^ 1880. 

Authorities differ as to the right number of oysters 
for a pre-prandial whet. Six oysters are enough to rouse 
the appetite of ordinary feeders ; but gourmands have 
been known to prelude a heavy dinner with many doz- 
ens. Baron Graham, the placid judge, of whom Jekyll 
said, "No one but his sempstress could ruffle him," 
on learning the special virtue of uncooked " natives " 
inquired how many he should take for an appetite. 
*' Eat away at them till you are hungry," was the re- 

1" Oysters are the indispensable companions of a choice break< 
fast." — Charles Monselet. "Lettres Gasirotiomiques^" 1S77. 



HOW- MANY TO EAT. 17 

ply. The baron, who could never see a joke or a bar- 
risters argument, acted on his instructions. After dis- 
posing of ten dozen, he remarked with mild plaintive- 
ness to an observer of his proceedings, "Something 
must be wrong in me ; I have eaten one hundred and 
twenty oysters, and 'pon my word and honor, I don't 
think I am quite as hungry as when I began." 

Brillat-Savarin's ' pre-prandial whet seldom exceeded 
three or four dozen oysters; but when he entertained 
the Lieutenant Laperte at a tete-a-Ute dinner, he ate a 
thirteenth dozen in deference to his guest's special gas- 
tronomic passion. Laperte, who had vowed to eat his 
soul [fill] of oysters, disposed of thirty-two dozen 
without fully accomplishing his purpose, and then 
turned his attention to dinner with powers neither 
weakened nor embarrassed by the prelude. 

The reader needs no reminder of the Vicomte de 
Vieil-Casters whet of twenty-four dozen '■'■ d'' /mitres 
d'Ostende.'''' It was over the grave of such an one that 
a friendly hand put this inscription : — 

" Tom, whom to-day no noise stirs, 
Lies buried in these cloisters, 
If, at the hist tnmip, 
He does not quickly jump, 
Only cry ' Oysters ! ' " 

Jcaffresori's ''Book about the Tabled 

' One of the most celebrated French gourmands (in the best 
sense of the word), and author of the classic, ^^ Phys^iologie dii 
g'out" Born 1755, died 1S26. At his famous luncheon to his two old 
friends of the Kue du Bac, "they smiled with delight on seeing 
the table laid for three, and at each plate two dozen oysters, with a 
bright golden lemon. At each end of the table stood a bottle of 
Sauterne, carefully wiped, all except the cork." 



iS THE OYSTER EPICURE. 



6. How to Open it. 

" Take off the beard — as quick as thought 
The pointed knife divides the flesh ; 
What plates are laden ! Loads are brought; 
Are eaten raw, and cold, and fresh." 

Hone's *^Every-day Book.** . 

People, generally, are somewhat indifferent about the 
manner of opening oysters, and the time of eating them 
after they are opened, yet nothing deserves more con- 
sideration at the hands of your true oyster-eater. The 
oyster should be eaten the moment it is opened, if eaten 
raw, with its own liquor in the under shell, on the very 
highest of all gastronomical authorities. — " Lucullus .'''^ 



Those who wish to eat oysters as they should be 
eaten must act as follows : Hold the mollusk firmly in 
a cloth, insert the point of the knife neatly just before 
the edge of the upper shell, give a quick decided pres- 
sure until the point is felt to glide along the polished 
inner surface of the under shell. Force it sharply to 
the hinge, give a smart wrench rather toward the right 
hand, and off comes the shell. Then pass the knife 
quickly under the oyster, separate it from its attach- 
ment, let it fall into the lower shell, floating in its juice, 
lift it quickly to the lips, and eat it before the delicate 
aroma has been dissipated into the atmosphere. There 
is as much difference between an oyster thus opened 
and eaten as between champagne, frothing and leaping 
out of the silver-necked bottle, and the same wine after 
it has been allowed to stand for six hours with the cork 
removed. — J. G. Wood. 



HOW TO OPEN IT. 19 

It is well worth a little practice to learn to open the 
oyster one's self, for a bungling operator injures our little 
favorite, and balks the expectant appetite by his un- 
sightly incisions. I learned the art years ago in one 
of the Midland counties, where Christmas eve would 
scarce be Christmas eve without an oyster supper. Let 
me sketch the scene. In the centre of the table, covered 
with a clean white cloth up to the top hoop, stands the 
barrel of oysters, a kindly remembrance from a friend, 
and the more kind because oysters are not found in 
fresh- water streams. Each gentleman at table finds 
an oyster-knife and a clean coarse towel by the side 
of his plate, and he is expected to open oysters for 
himself and the lady seated by his side, unless she is 
wise enough to open them for herself. By the side of 
every plate isiht panis ostreariiis, the oyster-loaf, made 
and baked purposely for the occasion, and all down the 
centre of the table, interspersed with vases of bright 
holly and evergreens, are plates filled with pats of 
butter, or lemons cut in half, and as many vinegar 
and pepper casters as the estabHshment can furnish.' — 
*' Liicullus.'''' 



" The expert who catches the oyster in his left hand, 
taps it with the butt-end of the knife to make it insen- 
sible, and shatters its strong lips to take its life, knows 
as soon as he lifts it from the pile where it came from, 
how old it is, whether it is a Delaware, Prince's Bay, 
City Islander, or has grown under the dashing waves of 
Rockaway." — Siimnonds. 

1 For the wines, etc., see " Lucullus," p. 14. 



20 THE OYSTER EPICURE, 



7. Roasted in its Own Shell. 

*' There is another method of eating oysters, wherein no knife is 
required, and not the least skill in opening- is needed, the only in- 
strument being a pair of tongs, and the only requisite being a bright 
fire."— r. G^Wood. 

Wash and wipe the oysters (in the shell) ; lay them 
in a quick oven, on the top of the stove, or in the coals ; 
when they open they are done. Pile in a dish, or in a 
pan, and send to table ; or take them out and lay them 
on toast, pouring over all the liquor that accumulates 
while opening them, with a little butter melted in it, 
and seasoned to taste. — Goodholme's '•'• Domestic En- 
cyclopcEdia.'''' 

Wash the shells in cold water ; put the oysters on a 
wire gridiron, over a clear, hot fire, or in a brisk oven, 
the round shell downwards. As fast as they open, 
take them off the fire and serve immediately. Each 
guest removes the upper shell himself. A savory con- 
diment is a little melted butter, lemon-juice, salt, and 
a pinch of red or white pepper to the taste. 

Another dainty mode of serving is to spread them, 
when taken out of their shells, all hot, on toast of stale 
baker's bread, lightly dipped in hot cream, the juice 
poured over it, and a little of the condiment dropi^ed 
on each oyster at the moment of serving. Garnish with 
sprigs of parsley, or water-cress, and stuffed olives, — 
"olives farcies," the French call them, — a delicious 
and appetizing companion to this the best and purest 
style of cooking an oyster. — Caterer and Household 
Magazine. 



ROASTED IN ITS OWN SHELL. 2 1 

You pick out a glowing spot in the fire where there 
are no flames, and no black pieces of coal to dart jets 
of smoke exactly in the place where they are not 
wanted. You then insert a row of oysters into the 
glowing coals, taking care to keep their mouths out- 
ward and within an easy grasp of the tongs, and their 
convexity downwards. Presently a spitting and hissing 
sound is heard, which gradually increases until the 
shells begin to open and the juice is seen boiling mer- 
rily within ; the mollusk itself becomes whiter and more 
opaque as the operation continues. There is no rule 
for ascertaining the precise point at which the cooking 
is completed, for every one has his own taste, and must 
learn by personal experience. A little practice soon 
makes perfect, and the expert operator will be able to 
keep up a continual supply as fast as he can manage to 
eat them. When they are thoroughly cooked they 
should be taken from the fire, a second batch inserted, 
and the still spluttering and hissing moUusks be eaten 
" scorching" hot. 

... No one who has not eaten oysters dressed in this 
primitive mode has the least idea of the piquant flavor 
of which they are capable. Stewed in their own juice, 
the action of fire only brings out the full flavor, and as 
the juice is consumed as well as the oyster, there is no 
waste, and no dissipation of the indescribable but po- 
tent aroma. — y. G. Wood. 



23 THE OYSTER EPICURE. 



8. "Which to Choose, and Where. 

" "When I but see the oyster's shell, 
I look and recognize the river, marsh or mud, 
Where it was raised." 

— Ascribed to Lucilhis, 



a. In the United States. 

The largest oysters are not always the best, espe- 
cially for eating raw and for stewing ; those of medium 
size are generally preferred by epicures. — GoodJiolme. 



I have always found the best and finest flavored oys- 
ters were those of a middling or even a smaller size to 
eat out of the shell, either raw or roasted. The 
clusters are seldom found as good as single oysters, 
and especially those of unnatural length are usually 
found poor and watery. — De Voe. 



For all purposes, except for eating raw, choose large, 
plump, firm-fleshed, _/>'^i-/^ oysters, which remain solid, 
and do not shrivel or shrink and toughen in the cook- 
ing, as the small ones or " cullings," and the salt ones, 
always do. 

What are called fresh oysters are not the product of 
fresh-water, as the oyster cannot develop and live ex- 
cept in salt-water, but they are planted as soon as full- 
grown, in beds where they are exposed to the action of 
a current of fresh-water for two or three days, between 



WHICH TO CHOOSE. 23 

tides, and are greatly improved thereby in fatness, 
tenderness, and flavor. There is no economy in buy- 
ing small or inferior shell-fish. — Caterer and Household 
Mas!:azine. 



The Blue Point, a small, round oyster from Long 
Island, is considered the finest in the market, and it 
costs about twice as much as the common oyster. Next 
comes the Wareham,' thought by many equal to the 
Blue Point. It is a salt-water oyster, and is, therefore, 
particularly good Tor serving raw. The Providence 
river oyster is large and well flavored, yet costs only 
about half as much as a Blue Point. The very large 
ones, however, sell at the same price. 

Oysters taken from the cool northern waters are the 
best. The common-sized oysters are good for all pur- 
poses of cooking, except broiling and frying, when the 
large are preferable. The very large ones are not served 
as frequently on the half shell as in former years, the 
Blue Point or the small Wareham having supplanted 
them. — Parloa's '•'■New Cook Book.'''' 



It is doubtful whether the three species which natural- 
ists have distinguished among the oysters of our At- 
lantic coast have more than a nominal existence. The 
oyster is so affected by the conditions of its life that the 
progeny of a single parent may represent at maturity 
the most widely variant forms of oyster-growth. The 
nature of the substance on which an oyster is fixed, the 



1 But see below, under Boston. 



24 



THE OYSTER EPICURE. 



consistency of the bed in which it rests, the depth, 
temperature, and saltness of the water it lives in ; every 
circumstance of its environment, in fact, is reflected in 
its shape and size, in the character of its shell, and in 
the flavor of its meat. An oyster which begins its 
settled existence on a scallop-shell will carry through 
life the impress of its first resting-place ; and the general 
form of the oyster is as subject to the accidents of place 
and surroundings as are the markings of its shell. Left 
to crowd one another on an irregular surface, oysters 
grow crooked and unshapely. Planted on soft mud, 
into which they sink with increasing weight, they build 
their shells almost entirely on the forward edge, be- 
coming thin-shelled and narrow ; and if left long enough 
to struggle against impending suffocation, their 
length will be five or six times their breadth, and their 
meat a mere ribbon of fringed integument. On a 
gravelly bottom in a swift current, the same stock grow 
deep and broad and massive ; and, with abundant 
growing space, develop the oval form, the large and 
solid meat, characteristic of the typical northern oyster. 
On one ground the shells will be soft and heavy, on an- 
other thin, fine, and as hard and translucent as porce- 
lain. Thus oysters differing enormously in form and 
character may be not only of the same species, but off"- 
spring of the same parent, the duration of the infant 
oyster's free existence being sufficient to allow the 
members of the same brood to be distributed over every 
variety of sea-bottom suitable for oyster-life. 

It is true that the Southern oysters are markedly 
different from those prevailing between New York Bay 



WHICH TO CHOOSE. 



25 



and Cape Cod, and these from the still more Northern 
variety ; but the variations would seem to be easily 
accounted for by differences in temperature and other 
external conditions. Northern oysters transplanted 
into Virginia waters speedily assume the form and 
other nominally ' ' specific " features of the natives 
of that region. In like manner, the Southern oysters 
when brought to the North become (when they can en- 
dure the climate) the rivals of the Northern natives in 
firmness of flesh and depth of body. As a rule, how- 
ever, they do not maintain themselves more than a 
single season in the colder Northern waters ; nor do 
they bear transportation to Europe or to California so 
well as the oysters of the North. 

As for comparative merit, that is a matter which 
rivals the oyster itself in dehcacy. In Washington or 
Baltimore the oyster-dealer will generously admit that it 
is quite possible to find good oysters outside of Chesa- 
peake Bay ; but. for a " perfect" oyster, he will tell you 
that it is useless to look to any other locality. The 
Philadelphian is equally sure that the estuary of the 
Delaware is the perfect oyster's only home, — a local 
prejudice which the oyster-eater of New York attributes 
to a deplorable ignorance of what a first-rate oyster 
really is. Doctors differ ; and the unprejudiced can 
only rejoice that anywhere between the parallels of 2)^'^ 
and 40^ north one may find oysters worthy of any 
human palate. Here in New York the favorites are, 
first and foremost, the Saddle Rocks, — a variety which 
Jerseymen insist has been exterminated these many 
years. They still remain, however, not only as direct 



26 THE OYSTER EPICURE. 

descendants from the colony about the original Saddle 
Rock, but in many other localities in Long Island 
Sound ; for it was not a distinct variety that gave the 
name its fame, but only an exceptionally thrifty chance- 
sown bed of the common natives, — a grade of oyster 
that artificial culture easily and constantly rivals. Next 
in rank may be mentioned the Blue Points, coming 
chiefly from Great South Bay, Long Island ; the same 
as the former in stock, but bred under different con- 
ditions, and so differing somewhat in flavor. The 
products of Shrewsbury River, NJ., probably come 
next ; these were formerly transplanted natives of New- 
ark Bay, improved by development in the favorable 
waters of the Shrewsbury ; but more recently, we are 
informed, the seed is commonly brought from Long 
Island Sound. — J. Richardson, hi Scribtiery Dec, ^^77' 



b. In New York} 
Mr. Buckland does not tell us anything about Ameri- 
can oysters, but, according to Charles Mackay, the 
oysters of New York are the finest in the world. Fine 
in flavor, and of a size unparalleled in the oyster-beds 
of Whitstable, Ostend, or the Rocher de Cancale. — 
North British Review ^ Alarch, 1867. 



The best oysters that Long Island now produces 
come from the North Shore, in the vicinity of Cold 
Spring. The New York market is, however, mainly 

1 See also, above, under United States. 



WHICH TO CHOOSE. 



27 



dependent on Virginia and Chesapeake Bay for its sup- 
ply of oysters, particularly the cheaper grades. Mary- 
land sends large quantities of opened oysters, which 
are packed in half-barrels, for sale by the gallon. The 
Maryland oysters, while not possessing that delicacy of 
flavor which characterize those of Long Island, are 
large, fat, and, in consequence, very nutritious. — Hour^ 

But two principal varieties appear here : these are the 
Northej'H and Southern^ although the oyster men have 
many names to distinguish the particular place where 
from, such as East Rivers, York Bays, Saddle Rocks, 
Mill Ponds, Shrewsburys, City Islanders, Cow Bays, Blue 
Points, Chingaroras, Virginias, Delawares, etc. 

The Northern oyster has a broad, thin, tough shell, 
with a pleasant smell, savoring of the odor of marine 
plants, while the Southern oyster has a thick, spongy, 
soft shell, and of less flavor. There is no doubt the 
oysters taken on our coast, in our bays, inlets, 
and especially the East River, attain their most luscious 
flavor. — De Voe's '' Market Assistant^'' 1866. 



In general it may be said that, in the cooking of oys- 
ters, the Southern kinds are used, because these are 
cheapest, a special price being charged for a " stew" of 
Northern oysters. For fried oysters, on the other hand, 
which require to be of larger size to make a show, the 
"box" size is used, and these are generally " Sound" 
or East River oysters. Oysters sold to be eaten raw 
may be anything and everything of respectable size ; 



28 THE OYSTER EPICURE. 

but the old brand names, "Saddle Rock," "Shrews- 
bury," " Sound," " Blue Point," " Keyport," etc., the 
popularity of which was won long ago, are still 
attached. I suppose, for example, that twenty times as 
many " Shrewsbury " oysters are sold every season in 
New York as are raised each year in that river. 

The largest oyster saloons have always been in Ful- 
ton market, and have a world-wide reputation. Now 
they are so well rivalled by up-town establishments that 
much of their prestige has disappeared. — IngersolL 



c. In Boston. 
A large variety of oysters are to be found on sale in 
Boston from widely different points. Those from the 
shore of Connecticut used to be highly esteemed, but 
they have gone out of the Boston market. The 
*' Cape " and " Providence " oysters are better of late, 
and the expense of bringing them on is much less than 
from Connecticut. About live years ago the very 
choicest brand eaten came from Wareham, at the 
northern extremity of Buzzard's Bay. Now these are 
poor, and better ones come from Cotuit, on the " heel" 
of Cape Cod, and the best orf all (in my judgment) are 
from the Sandwich Shore, particularly Monument 
River. The size, fine appearance, and saltness of the 
"Cape" or "native" oysters recommend them for 
" bench" stock, to be eaten raw. You see advertised, 
also, the Blue Point, Saddle Rock, Stamford, and Nor- 
walk oysters, more familiar to New Yorkers ; but they 
are kept for a special, small custom, as "fancy." — In- 
gersolL 



WHICH TO CHOOSE. 



29 



d. In Philadelphia. 

Philadelphia takes so prominent a position as an oyster 
centre that, although the Southern varieties from the 
Delaware and the Chesapeake Bays are prevailing in its 
markets, it supplies all the Northern favorites. 



One of the most popular oysters of former days was the 
Manokum from the waters of Virginia. But the glory 
of the Manokums has departed, with that of the Chin- 
coteague, Saddle Rock, and many another favorite of the 
day. At present the autocrats of the market are, for 
eating raw, the Blue Point from off the Connecticut 
shore, near Norwalk, and for cooking, Cove Plants, from 
the mouth of the Morris River, New Jersey, which 
empties into Delaware Bay. — Caterer and Household 
Magazine. 

e. In Europe. 
In England the Colchester, Pyfleet, and Chilford, are 
generally esteemed superior to all others, being white 
and flat, yet the others may be made to possess their 
qualities, in some degree, by being properly fed. The 
best oysters in Ireland are the Burren and Poldoody, 
the Carlingford being now extinct. In France the best 
are found at Cancale, Etretat, and Marennes. In Bel- 
gium the best are fished at Ostend. There is a fine- 
flavored, delicate small oyster much in vogue at Genoa, 
and a green-finned oyster at Venice, both of which are 
good. The Irish and foreign oysters possess a fresh, 



30 THE OYSTER EPICURE. 

natural, sea-water flavor, generally wanting in the 
English oyster, which is frequently spoiled by too 
much feeding and washing. — Kirwati's '■'- Host and 
Guest:'' 

/. In Great Britain. 
If you have eaten an oyster at Colchester or Faversham , 
in August, fresh from the sea ; or a melting native at 
Milton, the best oyster in the world, in October; a 
Helford native in Cornwall ; Whispered Pandores and 
Aberdours at Edinburgh, or the " Feast of Shells," one 
hundred for a shilling, dripping in Prestonpans sea- 
water; Carlingfords and Powldoodies of Burran at 
DubHn; or even a Jersey oyster at St. Helier's, you 
need no teaching of mine, you know what an oyster 
should be ; and the best instruction I can give, if you 
have not, is to take a return-ticket from London Bridge 
to Whits table, have some opened in the lower shell, 
without wasting one drop of the precious liquid it 
contains, eat the oyster the moment it is opened, mas- 
ticating your food, as a sensible man should, and be 
.sure you will enjoy the trip and the treat, and thank 
me to boot for having given you the hint. — " Luculhcs:'' 



g. In London. 
The small, ovate, deep shelled oyster, called Natives, 
which are here most esteemed, are all brought from 
artificial beds at Whitstable, Rochester, Milton, Col- 
chester, Burnham, etc., those from Burnham being 
reckoned the best. — McCullocKs "■Dictionary of 
Commerce:'' 



WHICH TO CHOOSE. 



31 



The common Colchester and Faversham oysters are 
brought to market on the 5th of August. They are 
called conanou oysters, and are picked up on the French 
coast, and then transferred to those beds ; the Milton, 
or, as they are commonly called, the melting natives^ 
the true Rutupians do not come in till the begin- 
ning of October, continue in season till the 12th May, 
and approach the meridian of their perfection about 
Christmas. The denizens from France are not to be 
compared to British native oysters, which are so called 
because they are born, bred, and fed in this country. 
These do not come to perfection till they are four 
years old. — " Luctdlus ^ 



The best places for oysters ' are Rule's in Maiden-lane, 
at the back of the Adelphi and Vaudeville ; Lynn's, 
about the middle of the south side of Fleet street; 
Smith's, in the Strand, near the Lyceum ; Wilton's, in 
Great Ryder street, St. James's ; Pimm's, in the Poul- 
try ; Sweeting's, Cheapside ; and on a more modest and 
primitive scale, the "Whistling Oyster" in Vinegar- 
yard, Drurylane. There is a good-looking oyster now 
being largely sold about London as a " Blue Point." 
Unwary Americans, if such there be, may as well under- 
stand beforehand that this is strictly a nomde fantaisie. 
— Dickens'' " Dictionary of London.'''' 



1 A fuller account is given in " LucuUus," in chapter ii, which is 
Bpecially devoted to " Oyster-seeking in the Great Metropolis." 



33 THE OYSTER EPICURE. 



h. bi Fra7ice. 

The French oysters are chiefly taken from beds in 
the bays of Cancale \Iiocher de Cancale] and St. 
Brieux, from Marennes, from Havre, and Dieppe, from 
Dunkirk, and from the Bay of Biscay. The three first 
are very fine, but the distance to Paris is too great; 
they are, therefore, dear in that capital. Those from 
Dunkirk are similar to those of Ostend, but not quite so 
fine ; and those from the Bay of Biscay are quite green, 
and highly esteemed in the south of France, especially 
at Bordeaux. — '' Lucullus.'''' 



i. hi Paris. 



Oysters in France are not yet so fearfully dear as in 
England. In a restaurant they may be had at from 2 f. 
to 3 f. a dozen. Quite moderate prices as compared 
with London charges. Oyster bars are not common in 
Paris as in London, for it is not customary so to eat 
them. The stand-up lunch is often forced upon us in 
London ; but it is nevertheless supremely uncomfortable. 
The Frenchman rarely so eats his food. If he wishes for 
a dozen oysters he will order them at the beginning of 
his breakfast or of his dinner. They are always given at 
the top of the viemi or bill of fare ; the names of the 
different kind of oysters are stated, and the prices of 
each kind are sometimes given. — Dickens' ^'■Dictionary 
of Paris:' 



DIETETICS, 33 



DIETETICS OF THE OYSTER. 

I. BY SAMUEL LOCKWOOD, PH. D. 

Are oysters good to eat ? Said Montaigne : " To be 
subject to colic, or deny one's self oysters, presents two 
evils to choose from." This is very fine for Montaigne, 
but it is a libel for all that. Besides, he was a sickly 
man at best of times. Says Reveille-Paris: "There 
is no alimentary substance, not even excepting bread, 
which does not produce indigestion under given cir- 
cumstances, but oysters never. We may eat them to- 
day, to-morrow, eat them always, and in profusion, 
without fear of indigestion." It is said that the first 
Napoleon always ate oysters on the eve of his great 
battles, if they could be got. Says Figuier: "The 
oyster may thus be said to be the palm and glory of 
the table. It is considered the very perfection of 
digestive aliment. . . . It is ' nothing more than 
water slightly gelatinized.' " But Figuier does not put 
it well. The oyster, even when solid and plump, has 
very little fat ; real adipose is hardly in it at all. The 
so-called fat is nutritious living gelatine. It is actual 
protoplasm, barely differentiated into tissue. But this 
brilliant French writer is sometimes too careless to be 
correct. It is better to trust the food specialist in such 
matters than the general naturalist, and here we have 
authority, recent and trustworthy, in that little book, 
"Foods," by Edward Smith, M.D. Here is the dic- 
tum of the physiologist : * * The oyster is not a food of 



34 THE OYSTER EPICURE. 

high nutritive value^, but is nevertheless useful to the 
sick, while its delicacy of flavor leads to its selection 
when other foods are rejected. The more usual mode 
is to eat it when uncooked ; and it is very doubtful 
whether cooking increases its digestibility It is, how- 
ever, possible that the flavor of scalloped may be pre- 
ferred to that of the raw oysters, or that the vinegar 
which is usually eaten with the latter may be disliked, 
or may disagree with the stomach ; but, with such 
exceptions, the usual method of eating them raw is to 
be preferred. [When oysters are to be cooked, it is 
needless to obtain those of the finest quality, for the 
flavor is in great part damaged by the cooking, and a 
larger and coarser oyster is equally good].'" 

The writer, in Lippincotfs Magazine, states the 
following: — "Dr. Leroy d'Etiolles, the famous 
French surgeon, was accustomed to attribute the 
foundation of his great physical strength to the two 
dozen raw he always ate before breakfast. Dr. Lenac 
has pronounced them the most nourishing food in 
existence. . . . Dr. Pasquier says they may be 
given with great advantage to persons of intemperate 
habits, who by inefficacious medical treatment have 
fallen into debility and lowness of spirits." 

Fortunately, the nutritive value of the oyster, as well 
as the relative worth of the New Jersey oyster com- 
pared to the Southern, has lately been determined by 
the chemist, Prof. W. O. Atwater. The results, in 
advance of the report of the U. S. Fish Commission, for 
which they were obtained, appeared in Proceedings of 
Afnerican Association for the Advaficement of Science^ 



DIETETICS. 



35 



i88i. Analyses were made of oysters, clams, scallops, 
lobsters, and cray-fish : — 

" The samples of oysters showed much wider varia- 
tion than might have been anticipated, both in the pro- 
portions of the shell contents, solid and liquid, and in 
the amounts of actually nutritive material contained in 
them. In general, the oysters from the coasts of New 
England, [New Jersey] and New York were much 
richer, both in total shell contents, and in actual nutri- 
ents, than those from Southern localities, Norfolk and 
the Potomac, James and Rappahannock rivers. Thus 
the samples from East River, N.Y., and Buzzard's 
Bay had respectively 20 and 20.3 per cent, of shell con- 
tents, while those from the James and the Potomac had 
13.8 and 12. 1 per cent., and one from Norwalk only 
1 1.2 per cent. That is, of the whole weight of the 
East River and Buzzard's Bay samples, four-fifths were 
shell, and one fifth " meat and juice," while in the 
Southern samples the shell contents, i.e., meat and 
juice, made only one-eighth of the whole weight. 

" The ratio of solids to liquids in the shell contents 
was still more variable. A sample of Blue Points had 
13.4 percent, solids and 5.3 per cent, liquids. The 
percentages of solids ranged from 13.4 per cent, in the 
Blue Points to 4.7 per cent, in the Norfolks ; those of 
liquids, from 11.8 in Stony Creeks to 4.9 in Shrews- 
burys. 

"The actual nutrients, however, are to be found in 
the dry (water-free) substance of the shell contents. 
Here again we find wide variations. Thus in the flesh 
(solids) the percentages of dry substance run from 23.7 



36 THE OYSTER EPICURE. 

in the Blue Points to 15.5 in the Staten Islands, while 
the liquids contain from 6.0 per cent of actual solid 
matter in the Fair Havens to 2.8 per cent, in the Rap- 
pahannocks. Taking tlie total contents, flesh and liq- 
uids together, we have in the Blue Points 19.2, and in 
the Norfolks only 8.6 per cent, of nutritive substances,, 
the rest being water. 

" As regards the constituents of the flesh, that of oys- 
ters is found to be quite watery, as would be expected, 
and to contain but little fat. On the average, the flesh 
(solid) of oysters, like that of fish, contains a little 
more water and less dry substance than ordinary meats. 
The oysters seldom have much fat, while some fishes 
have a great deal. 

" Clams are similar in composition to oysters, though 
rather richer in nutritive materials. Scallops (the ab- 
ductor muscle, the portion commonly eaten), are still 
richer, both in total nutrients and in fats. The 
amount of nutritive matter in lobsters and cray-fish is 
very small." 

Dr. Edward Smith makes a distinction between the 
flesh of mollusks and that of the crustaceans, such as 
crabs and lobsters. He calls the flesh of the former 
gelatinous, and that of the latter fibrinous. 

Speaking by the rule of thumb, it has been stated 
that the oyster, as a muscle-making food, is not much 
below lean beef, and is equal to eggs. Such a claim is, 
at best, extravagant. However, in such matters we 
can depend only on the analyst, and in this direction 
the above work of Prof. Atwater is the most recent, as 
it is the most valuable contribution to the subject yet 



DIETETICS. 



37 



made, and is only in keeping with the usual solid work 
on fish foods which the United States Fish Commission 
is producing. 

The careful reader will have noticed that these 
analyses are eminently favorable to the oysters of our 
own State [New Jersey] . 

The haste of the producer to get his crop into market 
is an American vice. Immature vegetables and unripe 
fruit, in violation of all hygiene, are put openly on sale. 
The oyster is forced to market at an average age be- 
low three years, though, as a rule, it is not at its best 
until it is five or six years old. 

Says Louis Figuier : "The small proportions of 
nutritive matter explains the extreme digestibility of the 
oyster." But the oyster contains a much larger amount 
of nutrition than this writer supposed, and there are 
chemical considerations which he did not know. It is 
opportune to light upon the following item in Scientific 
American^ Dec. i6, 1882: — 

'* Why oysters should be eaten raw is explained by 
Dr. William Roberts in his lecture on "Digestion." 
He says that the general practice of eating the oyster 
raw is evidence that the popular judgment upon matters 
of diet is usually trustworthy. The fawn-colored mass, 
which is the delicious portion of the fish, is its liver, 
and is simply a mass of glycogen. Associated with the 
glycogen, but withheld from actual contact with it dur- 
ing life, is its appropriate digestive ferment — the 
hepatic diastase. The mere crushing of the oyster be- 
tween the teeth brings these two bodies together, and 
the glycogen is at once digested without any other help 



38 THE OYSTER EPICURE. 

than the diastase. The raw, or merely warmed oyster, 
is self-digestive. But the advantage of this provision 
is wholly lost by cooking ; for the heat immediately de- 
stroys the associated ferment, and a cooked oyster has 
to be digested, like any other food, by the eater's own 
digestive i^owers. ' My dear sir, do you want to ruin 
your digestion?' asked Prof. Houghton, of Trinity Col- 
lege, one day of a friend who had ordered brandy and 
water with his oysters in a Dublin restaurant. Then 
he sent for a glass of brandy and a glass of Guinness's 
XX, and put an oyster in each. In a very short time 
there lay in the bottom of the glass of brandy a tough, 
leathery substance, resembling the finger of a kid glove, 
while in the porter there was hardly a trace of the 
oyster to be found." ' 

The above sets the oyster in a strong light. It seems, 
then, that a very important factor in favor of the oyster, 
when compared with other foods, lies in the small 
amount of energy expended in its elaboration by the 
digestive tract, which is a clear nutrient gain. Even 



1 As to Dr. Houg-hton's brandy and ale experiments with oysters, 
Dr. Charles L. Dana, of New York, in a recent number of the 
Medical and Surgical Reporter, controverts them. ITe asserts that 
"American oysters grow hard in ale or beer, instead of dissolving." 
He disbelieves Dr. Win. Roberts' idea that the oj^ter digests itself 
by the ferment of its own diastase. He says : "The oyster does not, 
and cannot digest itself." He also denies that raw oysters are always 
more digestible than the cooked. " Oysters roasted in the shell, or 
simply boiled a short time, will be digested nearly, if not quite as 
rapidly as the same number of raw." This last statement is simply 
his opinion, hence is not ■worthy the consideration due the first and 
the second averments, which seem based on experiments. (See also, 
Dr. Fothergill's remarks on page 53.) 



DIETETICS. 



39 



an Q.gg requires from three to four hours for digestion, 
or the same time as mutton. 

Yet it seems to me that the brandy and XX experi- 
ments were one-sided, and not conclusive, however 
correct the dyspeptic theory. Alcohol will act very 
differently upon the oyster, as the condition of the mol- 
lusk itself varies. I will try to abbreviate some inter- 
esting statements of Dr. Ryder: "With animals, 
generally, there is a periodic development of the gener- 
ative organs. The productive mass in the oyster — it 
scarcely deserves to be called organs — is wasted away 
at the end of the spawning season. It is not only 
spawn-spent, but all evidence of its sex is gone. In 
its stupendous feat of giving off so many millions of 
eggs, it has converted an immense amount of tissue 
into ' generative products,' and now a large part of the 
animal is composed of exhausted tissue, strands of 
spongy, emaciated tissue cells. A marvellous change 
in the solidity and consistence of the animal takes 
place. The shrinkage of a spawn-spent oyster in 
alcohol, or chromic acid solution, is excessive, and 
will, when complete, reduce the animal to one-tenth of 
its bulk while alive. This shrinkage is due to abstrac- 
tion of the water with which the loose, spongy tissue 
of the exhausted animal is distended. A so-called 
'fat' oyster, on the other hand, will suffer no such ex- 
cessive diminution in bulk when placed in alcohol or 
other hardening fluid." 

It is enough for the dietetic and dyspeptic argument 
to know that in its effect on food the mischief of alcohol 
consists in its hardening effects. It displaces the water 



40 



THE OYSTER EPICURE. 



which is a solvent in the solid, and, occupying its place, 
it is itself, so far as it goes, a neutralizer of solvency . 

Sometime a microscopist thought he had discovered 
an entozoan in the oyster. But his find, so far as I can 
learn, has not been confirmed. Naturalists well know 
how badly fishes are afflicted with true internal parasites. 
From these pests the oyster is quite free, and I think it 
is the only food animal of which so much can be said, 
and which for this reason can be safely eaten without 
cooking. 

The notion implied in the common expression ' ' cop- 
pery oysters," if meaning that these mollusks get their 
flavor or color from an oxide of copper, is quite un- 
tenable. It surely must be to the absence of that cop- 
pery tang, which European epicures so much extol, 
that P. De Broca alludes in his report on the oyster- 
ies of the United States, when he declares our oysters 
" insipid." * For he emphatically pronounces ours " a 
mollusk thicker, more tender, richer in nutritive ele- 
ments." " The American oyster, when cooked, is cer- 
tainly superior to ours, and as it preserves its proper- 
ties better during the process, it is highly regarded by 
physicians as an article of food for convalescent pa- 
tients." "I should therefore consider it a national 
blessing if we can obtain their reproduction in France, 
a consummation '^yhich we have every reason to hope 

1 De Broca's statement in effect, that though more nutritious than 
that of Europe, ** the American oyster is insipid," appears to smack 
a little of conceit, like the sentiment of that writer in the early Co- 
lonial days, that they had great store of large oysters, which with a 
pinch of " copper-filings," would be quite as savory as those at 
home. Probably then, as now, conceit went a good way. 



DIETETICS. 41 

will take place next spring, since the oysters depos- 
ited by M. Coste in the basin of Arcachon have 
developed as rapidly as in the best American planta- 
tions." This from the edition of the report of 1865, 
translated for the report of the United States Fish Com- 
mission of 1876. What success this attempt at accli- 
mation met with I cannot say. 

Professor Joseph Leidy thinks that the green color 
comes from feeding on the spores of the green sea-let- 
tuce, Ulva latissima. In Forest and Stream^ June, 
1882, and American Naturalist^ January, 1883, Dr. 
Ryder has, for the first time, established the cause of this 
phenomenon. It is primarily due to the food, next to 
a consequent change in the blood-cells, which are dis- 
tended with a greenish substance due to change of 
color in the secretions of the liver. That is, *'it is 
a tincture of the blood-cells, sometimes even found 
packing behind the heart-valves so as to impede 
their action." Though " abnormal accumulations, they 
are not parasitic, nor do they necessarily render the 
mollusk unwholesome." 

'* If the classical writers are to be trusted, to the 
green, yellow, and white-fleshed sorts we must add, 
red, tawny, and black-fleshed ones. Pliny tells us of 
red oysters found in Spain, of others of a tawny hue 
in Illyricum, and of black ones at Circeii, the latter be- 
ing, he says, black both in meat and shell. Horace 
and other writers awarded these the palm of excellence." 
To these might be added certain violet-colored oysters 
in France 

As a rule, the American oyster when black is in bad 



42 



THE VS TER EPIC URE. 



condition, and it will be found that the tissues of the 
flesh are permeated with black mud. It may occur that 
an oyster-bed is constantly receiving a deposit of dark, 
impalpable slime, so that the ooze will settle upon the 
mollusk, and in time bury it. But for awhile the ani- 
mal struggles against its misfortune, still getting worse 
and worse, until at last it succumbs. If taken before 
this happens, it will be found to be in a bad state. 
"Shifting" to better ground will save them, for they 
will rapidly recover, and become clean and fine. 

But food should not only be a muscle-maker. It 
should in some instances have prophylactic elements, 
or offsets of disease. An ^g^ contains albumen, oils, 
and sulphur, and this mineral " is a constituent of the 
proteine compounds of animals, in the taurine of bile, 
and the cystine of urine." And similarly there are 
health-giving properties in an oyster. Says Nature^ 
December 21, 18S2 : " The French Official Journal 
publishes a report on oyster culture, which is in favor 
of the Portuguese oyster. It appears that one hundred 
grammes of the flesh of this mollusk contain about one 
and one-tenth grammes of iodine, bromine, and chlo- 
rine, just twice as much as the common oysters."" This 
must be due to the abundance of alga food, and has 
very important dietetic relations, as I think. 

But food should be for enjoyment as well as nutri- 
ment. The freshening of the oyster, unless the animal 
be really dirty, in which case it will be ill-flavored too, 
is a discount upon its quality, since it takes' from it the 
saline tang so gustatory to the epicure. In Philadel- 
phia they are catering to this refined taste, hence the 



DIETETICS. 43 

distinction between freshened and salt oysters. It is 
noteworthy, too, that, by reason of this artificial bloat- 
ing which the mollusk gets, it does not keep long. It 
soon collapses, and having lost its artificial gain, it has 
also lost its natural quality. But it seems they must be 
got into market fat, or seemingly so. An old oyster- 
man told me that, in the former days, when he was sell- 
ing oysters up the North River, * ' at one time the 
weather was muggy, and the wind was hardly enough 
to carry a feather. The oysters shrank right up, and 
would not sell, and it seemed as if I should lose the 
whole jag, pretty much. I took water up on to the 
sloop, and gave them a drink again, as many at a time 
as I could. They fattened right up, and I got them all 
off my hands safe." 

I cannot say what the merits of the practice were, or 
whether it is still in vogue — but I know that, formerly, 
in England, oysters were subjected to a domestic fatten- 
ing. The process simply consisted in putting them in 
tubs of fresh-water in which oatmeal had been stirred. 
But this was not done by the dealer. It was a common 
practice of the purchaser, who received a hamper at a 
time. Whether a real fattening, or more correctly, 
fleshening, was the result, I am quite unable to say. 
By those who practised it there was implicit faith in 
the process. I also know an instance in which the 
owner of a little bed of " Cove oysters," in New Jer- 
sey, fed them with Indian meal. Generally the intelli- 
gent regarc^ it as a whim. It should be settled by 
experiment. 

After writing the above I was surprised to find the 



44 THE OYSTER EPICURE. 

following in De Broca's Report: "There is a very 
prevalent opinion in the United States, and in England, 
that oysters may be fattened by pouring Indian meal 
into the water wliich covers them. It is said that 
certain planters in New Jersey adopt this method in 
small ponds ; but it is very probable the meal has no 
effect whatever upon the oysters, their stomachs being 
too delicate to digest such nourishment. Many per- 
sons reject this opinion as a mere prejudice without 
foundation." — U.S.F. Com. Rep., 1876,/. 299. 



May it not be doubted whether so many good things 
can be said of any other article of animal food } Hence 
our Ostrea well deserves the epithet, " The festive 
oyster." So long as obtainable it will ever command 
a prominent place at the social board. Though the 
belief has prevailed in some quarters that this bivalve 
possessed aphrodisiac properties, the idea may be dis- 
missed as a silly delusion unworthy of discussion. But 
in the sick-room the oyster is often a precious boon. 
As a wholesome luxury it is deservedly esteemed ; and 
may the day never come at home, as it has abroad, 
when it shall cease to be an item in the common dietry 
of the people. Hence for the enlarging of the supply 
by judicious preservation, and much greater increase by 
wiser methods of propagation, it deserv^es the best con- 
sideration of the statesman, the scientiit, and the 
oyster planter himself. 



DIETETICS. 



2. FROM " LUCULLUS/ 



45 



The oyster, when eaten moderately, is, without con- 
tradiction, a wholesome, and one of the greatest deli- 
cacies in the world. It contains much nutritive sub- 
stance, which is very digestive, and produces a peculiar 
charm and an inexplicable pleasure. After having eaten 
oysters we feel joyous, light, and agreeable — yes, one 
might say, fabulously well. He who has eaten for the 
first time oysters is best enabled to judge of this ; for, 
soon after having eaten them, he will experience a sen- 
sation he never felt before, and never had an idea of. 
This sensation scarcely remains with people who eat 
oysters every day; it is more practically felt when 
oysters are eaten for breakfast or before dinner, although 
they are also very wholesome in the evening, when 
taken moderately. 

*' The oyster," says a practical writer, '* is a species 
of food combining the most alimentary qualities. Its 
meat is soft, firm, and delicate. It has sufficient flavor 
to please the taste, but not enough to excite to surfeit. 
Through a quality peculiar to itself, it flavors the in- 
testinal and gastric absorption, mixing easily with other 
food ; and, assimilating wjth the juices of the stomach, 
it aids and flavors the digestive functions. There is no 
other alimentary substance, not even excepting bread, 
which does not produce indigestion under certain given 
circumstances ; but oysters never. This is a homage 
due to them. They may be eaten to-day, to-morrow, 
forever, in profusion ; indigestion is not to be feared, 
and we may be certain that no doctor was ever called 



46 THE OYSTER EPICURE. 

in through their fault. Of course we except cooked 
oysters. Besides their valuable digestive qualities, 
oysters supply a recipe not to be despised in the liquor 
they contain. It is produced by the sea-water they 
have swallowed, but which, having been digested, has 
lost the peculiar bitterness of salt-water. The oyster- 
water is limpid and slightly saline in taste. Far from 
being purgative, like sea-water, it promotes digestion. 
It keeps the oysters themselves fresh, prolongs their 
life for some time until it is destroyed in our stomachs 
or until the oyster has. been transformed into a portion 
of ourselves." 

When suffering from almost incurable indigestion, 
by taking oysters daily they very soon find the most 
agreeable effects on the human kitchen and laboratory ; 
its functions become regular, without the use of strong 
medicines, always dangerous. Depression of spirits, and 
other disagreeable feelings consequent on impaired diges- 
tion, soon cease to affect them ; they become cheerful 
and happy, and are enabled again to see clearly through 
the misty atmosphere which has hitherto enclosed them 
in a kind of living shroud ; physical powers return, 
headaches disappear, and the heretofore dyspeptic, sour, 
unhappy-tempered man becomes a pleasant and joyous 
companion, full of life himself and inspiriting to those 
around him. 

Physicians of old recommended the oyster as a 
general remedy, and employed it on all occasions with 
success. It has been proved beyond dispute that it 
possesses a remarkable vivifying influence, in all cases 
where the nervous organs are affected, more than any 



DIETETICS. 



47 



Other food. Oysters taken before mid-day with a glass 
of wine produce a most salutary effect. The nerves 
and muscles regain their strength, and the body its 
mental and physical powers, bringing cheerfulness and 
energy to compete with the duties of the day. If not 
a cure, at all events an oyster diet, under medical super- 
vision, brings unquestionable relief to those who are 
suffering from pulmonary complaints, indigestion, or 
nervous affections. 

Dr. Leroy was in the habit of swallowing every 
morning before breakfast two dozen oysters, and used 
always to say to his friends, presenting them with the 
shells, *' There! behold the fountain of my youthful 
strength ! " 

Percy relates having seen a large number of wounded 
persons, exhausted by the loss of blood and treatment, 
who were entirely kept up by eating oysters ; and Dr. 
Lenac considered them the most nourishing food in 
existence. 

Oysters are strongly recommended to all persons 
suffering from weak digestion ; and Dr. Pasquier adds, 
that "they may be given with great advantage to per- 
sons of intemperate habits, who, by inefficacious medi- 
cal treatment, have fallen into debility and lowness of 
spirits." He also recommends oysters to all who are 
suffering from the gout. I myself knew a person last 
winter, who was suffering from influenza, which, from his 
being an aged man, threatened the most serious conse- 
quences, who was entirely cured by eating oysters. 

Oysters increase the blood without heating the sys- 
tem, and hence when a wound has caused much loss of 



48 



THE OYSTER EPICURE. 



blood the eating of oysters not only prevents fever, but 
replaces the loss which no other remedy can effect. 
The great Boerhaave affirms to have known a tall, 
strong man, who had fallen into a decline, and who, 
after all other remedies had proved useless, by the use 
of oysters rapidly recovered, became strong, and died 
ninety-three years old. 

But to ladies particularly do I recommend oysters as 
the best of all light meals between breakfast and din- 
ner. At the period of a lady's married life, when nau- 
sea is prevalent, a few fresh oysters, taken raw in their 
own liquor, with no addition but a little pepper, and a 
fair slice of French roll or other light bread, stop the 
feeling of sickness, and keep up the stamina unim- 
paired. During the time, too, when a young child 
most requires maternal care and attention, the mother's 
diet of oysters will impart strength to the infant, and 
tend much to alleviate the pains of its first teething. 

I am well aware that some persons have a repug- 
nance to the eating of oysters, and that it may be diffi- 
cult to overcome the dislike. However, as a proof that 
oysters in general are nice to the taste, let me mention 
that children under two years of age eat them with 
great appetite ; and it is only after having discon- 
tinued eating any for some time that they take a dislike 
to them. 

I have often had the opportunity of overcoming this 
dislike, and the result was always satisfactory. The 
method is very simple. Take a piece of French roll 
(or a piece of milk-bread) thinly buttered, and put on 
it the oyster, deprived of its beard, squeezing a few 



DIETETICS. 4^ 

drops of lemon and peppering it. ** Well, after all, 
the taste of the oyster is really fine ! " is the usual ex- 
clamation, and after that the person has eaten them in 
their natural state with gusto. 

When eaten for health, an oyster is best swallowed 
in its own liquor the moment the shell is opened ; or, if 
too cold for the stomach, a sprinkling of pepper will 
remedy the evil. Vinegar counteracts the effect of the 
oyster enriching the blood ; so, when the oyster is eaten 
medicinally, it must be excluded. Dr. Evans says that 
when too many oysters or other shell-fish have been 
taken, the unpleasant sensation excited by such excess 
may be removed by drinking half a pint of hot milk. 
Persons of delicate constitutions will do well always to 
take hot milk after oysters. i 

3. FROM OTHER AUTHORITIES. 

Oysters are nutritious and easy of digestion, espe- 
cially when eaten raw, the process of cooking coagulat- 
ing and hardening them. 

The following shows their composition : — 

COMPOSITION OF OYSTERS. 

{Payen.) Mean of 

two analyses. 

Nitrogeneous matter 14.010 

Fatty matter 1.515 

Saline 2.695 

Non-nitrogeneous matter and loss i'39S 

Water S0.385 

100.000 
BlytVs " Dictionary of Hygiene and Public Health?* 

1 Or a piece of good fett (rich?) cheese. — " Universal Lexihon 
d. Kochkunst." 



50 



THE OYSTER EPICURE. 



All shell-fish are very liable to decomposition, and 
when this takes place they are extremely injurious to 
health, frequently producing severe bilious derange- 
ment, and, in some cases, a most troublesome eruption, 
similar to nettle rash. — Goodhob7ie's ^'Domestic Ency- 
clopcEciia.'''' 

It is not an unusual circumstance that oysters and 
other shell-fish, when eaten after having been kept long 
during the warm season, will produce serious illness 
resembling cholera ; but no such ill effects would be 
likely to arise when they are received fresh from our 
waters. — Dr. Jaines R. Chilton. 



Oysters are very beneficial to persons who suffer from 
weak digestion, but then they must be eaten raw, and 
without vinegar or pepper, and I have known an inva- 
lid able to eat oysters when quite unable to take any 
other food ; and oysters are also recommended for 
consumptive patients, as they contain iodine. — Lovell. 



Respecting the wholesomeness of this well-known 
shell-fish, much difference of opinion exists among 
medical men; nutritious, especially when uncooked, 
they certainly are, but their digestibility, in all proba- 
bility, depends greatly upon the person by whom they 
are eaten. Some, whose stomachs generally require 
much consideration, can eat oysters in moderation 
with impunity. Dr. Paris, however, condemns them 
for invalids. — Dr. Spencer Thotnpson. 



DIETETICS. 



51 



Oysters differ greatly from lobsters, craw-fish, and 
crabs, being principally gelatinous and fatty, and when 
the beard or gill, and the hard muscle by which the fish 
is attached to the shell, are rejected, they form a digest- 
ible and fairly nutritious article of diet, which generally 
agrees well with weak stomachs, especially when eaten 
raw,' and they would be still more wholesome if minced 
or masticated, instead of being swallowed in the usual 
way. — Dr. H. Dobell. 



And of oysters it should be remembered that they 
are to be eaten raw, or, at most, barely warmed through ; 
for complete boiling makes the flesh tough, so that it is 
prudent, if they come from near river-mouths, to keep 
them alive in a shallow dish of clean brine for a day or 
two, feeding them with meal, and changing the water 
so as to leave them bare twice a day, in imitation of the 
tide. They become peculiarly plump and wholesome 
under this management. — Dr. TJi07nas King Chamber s . 



The oyster can be cooked in many ways, but the pure 
animal is the best of all, and gulping him up in his 
own juice is the best way to eat him. The oyster, I 
maintain, may be eaten raw, day by day, every day of 
the two hundred and fourteen days that it is in season, 
and never do hurt. It never produces indigestion — never 
does the flavor pall. The man who ends the day with 
an oyster in his mouth rises with a clean tongue in the 
morning, and a clear head as well. — Bertram. 

1 The peculiar digestibility of the oyster is destroyed by cooking'^ 
but not by warming to a temperature below 100" F. 



52 



THE OYSTER EPICURE. 



The graphic description by Dr. Roberts* tells us how 
it is that oysters ait naturel are so much in vogue for 
invalids, as they deservedly are. Also why oysters 
should not be cooked in oyster-sauce, but put into the 
prepared sauce just as it comes to table. Why, as 
King Chambers insists, in a beefsteak pudding, the 
oysters should not be cooked, but a flap of the paste 
raised, and the oysters popped in, just as the pudding is 
served. In making oyster pat^s, the paste is cooked 
in bread crumbs, which is then taken out and the oys- 
ters put in; after which, the p^t^s are just warmed, 
and no more, and then brought up to the dinner-table. 
The idea that long cooking increases the digestibility of 
food is not always correct. — Dr. J. M. Fothergill. 



The oyster holds the highest rank in this class of 
food (molluscous animals). This class of animals 
differs from the Crustacea in this, that while the Crusta- 
cea have powerful and active muscles, the mollusks have 
almost no muscles at all, having no motion except the 
opening and shutting of the bivalves, and a slight con- 
tractile power by which they imbibe their food. Of 
course they have not, as food, the muscle-making ele- 
ments of the Crustacea or other active fish, and al- 
though their chemical composition indicates phosphatic 
salts, they are mostly salts of lime, which go to form 
the shell and to make bone rather than afford food for 
the brain and nervous system. Oysters, therefore, are 
unsatisfactory for laboring men, but will do for the seden- 
tary, and for a supper to sleep on. — Dr. A. J. Bellows. 

1 See p. 3S. 



FAMOUS OYSTER-EATERS. 53 

FAMOUS OYSTER-EATERS. 



Oysters have their social as well as their natural and 
economic history. The name of the courageous individual 
who ate the first oyster has not been recorded, but there 
is a legend concerning him to the following effect : 
Once upon a time — it must be a prodigiously long time 
ago, however — a man of melancholy mood, who was 
walking by the shores of a picturesque estuary, listening 
to the sad sea-waves, espied a very old and ugly oyster, 
all coated over with parasites and seaweeds. It was so 
unprepossessing that he kicked it with his foot, and the 
animal, astonished at such rude treatment on its own do- 
main, gaped wide with indignation. Seeing the beautiful 
cream-colored layers that shone within the shelly cov- 
ering, and fancying the interior of the shell itself to be 
beautiful, he lifted up the aged " native" for further 
examination, inserting his finger and thumb between the 
shells. The irate mollusc, thinking no doubt that this 
was meant as a further insult, snapped his pearly door 
close upon the finger of the intruder, causing him some 
little pain. After releasing his wounded digit, the in- 
quisitive gentleman very naturally put it in his mouth. 
"Delightful!" exclaimed he, opening wide his eyes. 
"What is this?" And again he sucked his thumb. 
Then the great truth flashed upon him, that he had found 
out a new delight, — had, in fact, accidentally achieved 
the most important discovery ever made up to that date ! 
He proceeded at once to the verificati,on of his thought. 



54 



THE OYSTER EPICURE. 



Taking up a stone he forced open the doors of the 
oyster, and gingerly tried a piece of the mollusc itself. 
Delicious was the result, and so, there and then, with 
no other condiment than the juice of the animal, with 
no reaming brown stout or pale chablis to wash down 
the repast, no nicely-cut, well-buttered brown bread, 
did that solitary anonymous man inaugurate the oyster 
banquet. 

Ever since the apocryphal period of this legend men 
have gone on eating oysters. Princes, poets, pontiffs, 
orators, statesmen, and wits have gluttonized over the 
oyster-bed. i Oysters were at one time, it is true, in 
dangeFbrbeing forgotten. From the fourth century 
to about the fifteenth they were not much in use ; but 
from that date to the present time the demand has 
never slackened. Going back to the times which we 
now regard as classic, we are told that we owe the 
original idea of pisciculture to a certain Sergius Grata, 
who invented an oyster-pond in which to breed oysters, 
not for his own table, but for profit. 

We have all read of the feasts and fish-dinners of the 
classic Italians. These were on a scale far surpassing 
our modern banquets at Greenwich and Blackwall. 
Lucullus had sea- water brought to his villa in canals from 
the coast of Campania, in which he bred fish in such 
abundance for the use of his guests that not less than 
;^35,ooo worth were sold at his death. Vitellius ate 
oysters all day long, and some people insinuate that he 
could eat as many as a thousand at one sitting — a happi- 
ness too great for belief ! Callisthenes, the philosopher 
of Olynthus, was also a passionate oyster-eater, and so 



FAMOUS OYSTER-EATERS. 55 

was Caligula, the Roman tyrant. The wise Seneca 
dallied over his few hundreds every week,^ and the great 
Cicero nourished his eloquence with the dainty. The 
Latin poets sang the praises of the oyster, and the fast 
men of Ancient Rome enjoyed the poetry during their 
carouse, just as modern fellows, not at all classic, enjoy 
a song over their oysters in the parlor of a London or 
provincial tavern. 

In all countries there are records of the excessive 
fondness of great men for oysters. Cervantes was 
an oyster-lover, and he satirized the oyster-dealers 
of Spain. Louis IX., careful lest scholarship should 
become deficient in France, feasted the learned 
doctors of the Sorbonne, once a year, on oysters ; and 
another Louis invested his cook with an order of no- 
bility, as a reward for his oyster-cookery. Napoleon, 
also, was an oyster-lover ; so was Rousseau, and Mar- 
shall Turgot used to eat a hundred or two, just to 
whet his appetite for breakfast. Invitations to a dish 
of oysters were common in the literary and artistic 
circles of Paris at the latter end of last century. The 
Encyclopedists were particularly fond of oysters. Hel- 
vetius, Diderot, and the Abb6 Raynal, Voltaire, and 

1 Seneca, who so admirably praised poverty in his writings, and 
complained on the forum that he could not live comfortably with 
only ten million of dollars, treated oysters with some duplicity. 
The temperate sage ate a few hundred every day, until, in a fit of 
indigestion, and after having listened io a brother philosopher, who 
inveighed against all the follies and vices of the times, he denounced 
them forever. With the bitterness of a friend changed into a foe, 
he turned around and denounced them as vile things, pleasing only 
to gluttons, because " they so very readily slipped down, and so very 
readily came up again." — Putnani's Magaziiie, October y 1S6S. 



56 THE OYSTER EPICURE. 

Others, were confirmed oyster-men. Before the Revo- 
lution the violent politicians were in the habit of 
constantly frequenting the Parisian oyster-shops ; and 
Danton, Robespierre, and others, were fond of the 
oyster in their days of innocence. The great Napo- 
leon, on the eve of his battles, used to partake of the 
bivalve ; and Cambaceres was famous for his shell-fish 
banquets. Even at this day the consumption of 
oysters in Paris is enormous ; according to recent sta- 
tistics the quantity eaten there is one million per day ! 

Among our British celebrities Alexander Pope 
was an oyster-eater of taste, and so was Dean Swift, 
who was fond of lobsters as well. Thomson, of the 
** Seasons," who knew all good things, knew how good 
a thing an oyster was. The learned Dr. Richard 
Bentley could never pass an oyster-shop without having 
a few ; and there have been hundreds of subsequent 
Englishmen who, without coming up to Bentley in other 
respects, have resembled him in this. The Scottish 
philosophers, too, of the last century — Hume, Dugald, 
Stewart, Cullen, etc. — used frequently to indulge in 
the "whiskered pandores " of their day and genera- 
tion. *' Oyster ploys," as they were called, were fre- 
quently held in the quaint and dirty taverns of the old 
town of Edinburgh. These Edinburgh oyster-taverns 
of the olden time were usually situated underground, in 
the cellar-floor ; and, in the course of the long winter 
evenings, the carriages of the quality folks would be 
found rattling up, and setting down fashionable ladies, 
to partake of oysters and porter, plenteously but rudely 
served. What oysters have been to the intellect of 



FAMOUS OYSTER-EATERS. 



57 



Edinburgh in later times, who needs to be told that has 
heard of Christopher North, and read the "Noctes 
Ambrosianag " ? 

The Americans become still more social over their 
oysters than we do, and their extensive seaboard 
affords them a very large supply ; although we regret 
to learn that, in consequence of over-fishing and of the 
carrying away of the fish at improper seasons, the 
oyster-banks of that great country are in danger of 
becoming exhausted. — Bertra7n^s '''Harvest of the 
Sea:' 



Many a famous Briton has been addicted to the 
British oyster, — a belief in which is still one of the 
articles of social faith in the mother-country. Richard 
Bentley writes from the country, not long before his 
death, "My great relief and amusement here is my 
regular supply of oysters. These things must have 
been made in heaven. They are delectable, satisfying, 
delicious, and mentally stimulating in a high degree. 
I can indite matte^ by the yard when I have had a good 
meal of them. I get them down in all manner of 
ways, and it is difficult to say which is the best, such 
are the instrinsic excellences of the raw material." 
Pope divided his gastronomical affection between lob- 
sters and stewed oysters, and made the presence of a 
stew the condition of his acceptance of an invitation to 
dine with Lord Bolinbroke. 

Thomson^s death is by some attributed to a surfeit of 
oysters. We have not our Boswell handy, but we re- 
member that at least Johnson's cat was fond of oysters, 



^8 THE OYSTER EPICURE. 

and that the glorious Sam used to do the marketing for 
her, because his servant was too proud to undertake 
such a commission. The reader of the " Noctes Ambro- 
sianae" will remember that " Christopher North," the 
Ettrick Shepherd, and the rest of them, were mighty 
eaters of oysters. Jamie Hogg, we are told, never had 
"recourse to the cruet till after the lang hunder." The 
first fifty he devoured in their juices. The pepper 
enabled him to get well into the second hundred. A 
dozen and a half were aided by vinegar, and it went 
hard if with the stimulus of mustard he did not reach 
the two gross, though to the more civilized eater it may 
be difficult to see wherein such a gorge against nature 
differs from the eating of a yard of Bologna sausage or 
a pail of porridge for a bet. London has its traditions 
of Dando* and other heroes whose mission in life it 
was to make themselves the sarcophagi of dozens and 
grosses of oysters. Ben Jonson, by the way, in " The 
Devil is an Ass," describes 

"The roysters 
At Billingsgate feasting with claret wine and oysters," 

and Peter the Great, who always had oysters for dinner 
in two or three fashions, and called the oystermen his 
" life preservers," used to hold deep discussions with 
the oyster-wife at Woolwich Dockyard. — New York 
World. 



1 " On some far-distant shores, 
There are who seek the oyster for the pearl ; 
She sometimes brings with her a priceless dower — 
But Dando only sought her for herself." 



HAPPINESS OF THE OYSTER. 59 

THE HAPPINESS OF THE OYSTER. 



"And then the oyster itself — the soul and bodj^ 
the shell — is there no philosophy in him or her?/ For 
now we know that oysters are really he and she, ann that 
Bishop Sprat, when he gravely proposed the study of 
oyster-beds as a pursuit worthy of the sages who, under 
' the guidance of his co-Bishop, Wilkins, and Sir Chris- 
topher Wren, were laying the foundation stones of the 
Royal Society, was not so far wrong when he discrimi- 
nated between lady and gentlemen oysters. The worthy 
suggester, it is true, knew no better than to separate 
them according to the color of their beards ; as great a 
fallacy, as if, in these days of Bloomerism, we should 
propose to distinguish between males and females by 
the fashion of their waistcoats or color of their panta- 
loons ; or, before this last great innovation of dress, to 
diagnose between a dignitary episcopal and an ancient 
dame by the comparative length of their respective 
apronsa In that soft and gelatinous body lies a whole 
world of vitality and quiet enjoyment. Somebody has 
styled fossiliferous rocks ' monuments of the felicity of 
past ages.' An undisturbed oyster-bed is a concentra- 
tion of happiness in the present. Dormant though the 
several creatures there congregated seem, each indi- 
vidual is leading the beatified existence of an epicurean 
god. The world without — its cares and joys, its storms 
and calms, its passions, evil and good — all are indif- 
ferent to the unheeding oyster. Unobservant even of 



6o THE OYSTER EPICURE. 

what passes in its immediate vicinity, its whole soul is 
concentrated in itself; yet not sluggishly and apatheti- 
cally, for its body is throbbing with life and enjoyment. 
The mighty ocean is subservient to its pleasures. The 
rolling waves waft fresh and choice food within its reach, 
and the flow of the current feeds it without requiring an 
effort. Each atom of water that comes in contact with 
its delicate gills involves its imprisoned air to freshen 
and invigorate the creature's pellucid blood. Invisible 
to human eye, unless aided by the wonderful inventions 
of human science, countless millions of vibrating cilia 
are moving incessantly with synchronic beat on every 
fibre of each fringing leaflet. Well might old Leeuwen- 
hoek exclaim, when he looked through his microscope 
at the beard of a shell-fish, ' The motion I saw in the 
small component parts of it was so incredibly great that 
I could not be satisfied with the spectacle ; and it is not 
in the mind of man to conceive all the motions which I 
beheld within the compass of a grain of sand.' And 
yet the Dutch naturalist, unaided by the finer instru- 
ments of our time, beheld but a dim and misty indica- 
tion of the exquisite ciliary apparatus by which these 
motions are effected. How strange to reflect that all 
this elaborate and inimitable contrivance has been de- 
vised for the well-being of a despised shell-fish .? Nor 
is it merely in the working members of the creature that 
we find its wonders comprised. There are portions of 
its frame which seem to serve no essential purpose in 
its economy, — which might be omitted without dis- 
turbing the course of its daily duties, and yet so con- 
stant in their presence and position, that we cannot 



HAPPINESS OF THE OYSTER. 6i 

doubt their having had their places in the original plan 
according to which the organization of the mollusk was 
first put together. These are symbols of organs to be 
developed in creatures higher in the scale of being ; an- 
titypes, it may be, of limbs, and anticipations of unde- 
veloped senses. These are the first draughts of parts 
to be made out in their details elsewhere ; serving, how- 
ever, an end by their presence, for they are badges of 
relationship and affinity between one creature and an- 
other. In them the oyster-eater and the oyster may 
find some common bond of sympathy and distant 
cousinhood. 

" Had the disputatious and needle-witted schoolmen 
known of these most curious mysteries of vitality, how 
vainly subtle would have been their speculations con- 
cerning the solution of such enigmas ! " — West7ninster 
Review, 



i 















•©lis* ^^^ ^ oVJO^* ^y ^^ •©iiS'* 



.-UAj*^ % -<o^ 










•I'cf' '^'^^ 



014 358 955 9 % 



