LI 



1 



MRS. CLARKE'S 

COOKERY BOOK 



a COMPRISING A COLLECTION OF 



ABOUT FOURTEEN HUNDRED 

PRACTICAL, USEFUL, AND UNIQUE 

RECEIPTS. 



.ncluding " sick room cookery," and a number of 
excellp:nt receipts entitled "the doctor." 



ALSO 



khixt to Jlamc the ISabg. 



A COMrLETE DICTIONARY OF CHRISTIAN NAMES ; THEIR ORIGIN 
1 

AND SIGNIFICATION. 



i 



I THE GRIP PRINTING AND PUBLISHING CO. 

\ 1$^ 57 AoiLAiDa Stkcxt East. 

y (OOPYRIQHT.) 




Co 4- 1,5 



U 



Entered accoiding to Act of Parliament of the Pominion of Canada in the year 
1883, by Gkorgk Clarke, in the Office of the Minister of Agriculture. 



PREFACE. 



As a general rule, I do not believe in prefaces, but 
feeling bound to submit to the time-honored custom, I 
am free to confess that had I known the labor necessary to 
produce di first-class " Cookery Book," I should hardly have 
had the resolution to commence it. However, I have done 
nay utmost to make it useful and acceptable to the ladies of 
the D .ninion of Canada. The recipes have been most 
carv..ully compiled, and valuable assistance has been ren- 
dered me by friends in the British Isles, France, Germany 
and the United States, to all of whom I tender my most 
sincere thanks. I also desire to record my grateful appre- 
ciatioii of the immense success my "Cookery Book" has 
met with. The number of orders already received for it 
convinces me that I have supplied a real want, and that my 
book will help my sisters to lighten their toil and gladden 
the hearts of their families. 



ANNE CLARKE. 



3^ Pembroke Street, Toronto^ 
Nov. 1st, 1883. 



r 






CONTENTS. 



i 



TAOK 
I'REFAOB 5 

Introductory Observations 9 

Soups H 

Fish 31 

Poultry ani> Game 49 

Meats : 

Beef 62 

Pork 71 

Veal 76 

Mutton 84 

Curries 93 

Gravies 99 

Sauces 1 02 

Stocks 112 

Vkoktablks 114 

Salads 137 

Pickles 143 

Boos 147 

Ketohum 156 

Forcemeats 161 

Brf!ad and Cakes 164 

Fastby Aitv VvDDintas 198 



CONTENTS. 

SwxxT Dishes 240 

Dessert 248 

Colorings for Confectionery 253 

Ices and Creams 255 

Preserves 268 

Canned Fruits, &o 279 

Jellies 284 

Milk, Butter and Cheese 294 

Beverages 305 

Wines and Brandies 318 

Sick Room Cookery B27 

The Doctor 342 

What to Name the Baby 375 

Index 387 



■ .. ' ^'••*, ;>■ 



INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS, 



"The number of inhabitants who may he snpportefl in atiy 
country upon its internal piocluce depends about as much upon 
th3 state of the Art of Cookery as upon tliat of Agiicnlture : but if 
Cookery be of so much importance, it certainly deserves to be 
studied with the greatest of care. Cookery and Agriculture are 
arts of civilized nations. Savai^'os understand neither of thcin." — 
Count Ruin ford's Wotkx, Vol. 1 . 

The importance of the Art of Cookery is very great ; in- 
deed, from the richest to the poorest the selectioi* and 
preparation of food often becomes the chief object in life. 
The rich man's table is luxuriously spread ; no amount of , 
money is spared in procurmg the rarest delicacies of the sea- 
son. Art and Nature alike contribute to his necessities. The 
less wealthy have, indeed, fewer resources, yet these may 
be greatly increased by the knowledge of what may be 
called trifling details and refinement in the art of cookery, 
which depend much more on the manner of doing a thing 
than on tiie cost attending it. To cook well, therefore, 
is immensely more important to the middle and working 
classes than to the rich, for they who live by the " sweat of 
their brow," whether mentally or physically, must have the 
requisite strength to support their labor. Even to the poor, 
whose very life depends upon the produce of the hard earned 
dollar, cookery 's of the greatest importance. Every wife, 
mother, or sister should be a good plain cook. If she has 
servants she can direct them, and if not, so much the more 
must depend upon herself. To such we venture to give a 
few general hints. An old saying (to be found in one of 
the earliest cookery books) : " First catch your hare, etc." 
has more significance than is generally supposed. To 
catch your hare well, you must spend your income judi- 
ciously. This is the chief thing. In our artificial state of 
society, every income, to keep up appearances, has at least 
hali as much more to do than it can afford. • In the selcc- 



INTRODUCTORY O'JSERVATIONS. 



tion of provisions, the best is generally the cheapest Half 
a pound of .. Dd meat is more nutritious than three times 
the amount of inferior. As to vegetables buy them fresh. 
Above all, where an income is small, and there are many 
to feed, be careful that all the nourishment is retained in 
the food that is purchased. This is to be effected by care- 
ful cooking. Cleanliness is an imperative condition. Let 
all cooking utensils be clean and in order. Uncleanliness 
produces disorder, and disorder confusion. Time and 
money are thus wasted, dinner spoiled, and all goes wrong. 
In the cooking of meat by any process whatever, remember, 
above all, to cook the juices in it, not out of it. 

BOILING. 

In boiling, put the meat if fresh into cold water, or, if 
salt, inio luke-warm, Simmer it very gently until done. 
It is a general rule to allow a quarter of an hour to every 
pound of meat ; but in this, as in everything else, judgment 
must be used according to the bone and shape of the joint, 
and according to the taste of the eaters. All kinds of meat, 
fish, flesh, and fowl, should be boiled very slowly, and the 
scum taken off just as boiling commences. If meats are 
allowed to boil too fast they toughen, all their juices are 
extracted, and only the fleshy fibre, without sweetness, is 
left ; if they boil too long they are reduced to a jelly, and 
their nourishing properties are transferred to the water in 
which they are boiled. Nothing is more difificult than to 
boil meat exactly as it should be ; close attention and good 
judgment are indispensable. 

ROASTING. 

In roasting meat the gravy may be retained in it by 
pricking the joint all over with a fork and rubbing in pepper 
and salt. Mutton and beef may be underdone, veal and 
pork must be well cooked. Young meat generally requires 
more cooking than old ; thus lamb and veal must be more 
done than mutton and beef. In frosty weather meat will 
require a little more time for cooking. All joints for roast- 
ing will improve by hanging a day or so before cooking. 



INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. 



i BROILING. 

Broiling is the most nutritious method of cooking mut- 
ton and pork chops, or beef and rump steaks, kidneys 
(which should never be cut open before cooking), etc. 
Have the gridiron clean, and put over a clear fire ; put the 
meat on it ; " keep it turned often." This last is a common 
direction in books but the reason why is never stated ; it is 
to keep the gravy in the meat. By letting the one side of a 
steak be well done before turning, you will see the red 
gravy settled on the top of the steak, and so the meat is 
hard and spoiled. This is cooking the gravy out of, in- 
stead of keeping it in, the meat to nourish the consumer. 
Never stick the fork in the meaty part ; you will lose gravy 
if you do. Be sure to turn often, and generally the chop 
or steak is done if it feels firm to the fork; if not done, it 
will be soft and flabby. It is economical to broil well. 
Many a very little piece of meat, nicely broiled,with gravy in 
it, well seasoned with pepper and salt, a very little butter 
on it, and served up quite hot, will make a better and more 
nourshing meal than four times the amount of badly- 
cooked in the frying pan. 

FRYING. 

Although very bad for chops or steaks, the frying pan is 
indispensable for some things, such as veal cutlets, lamb 
chops (sometimes), fish, pancakes, etc. Most meats and 
fish are usually fried with egg and bread crumbs. The fry- 
ing pan must be kept clean. This is very essential, as the 
dirt that sticks to the pan absorbs the fat, prevents the 
meat browning, and turns it a nasty black color. Have a 
clear brisk fire, as the quicker meat is fried the tenderer it is. 
According to what is to be fried, put little or much fat in the 
pan, fish and pancakes require a considerable quantity. 
The fat must always boil before putting the meat into it ; 
if not, it coddles. For veal cutlets a little butter is best 
and most economical, as it helps to make the gravy ; but 
even this expense may be dispensed with, if incompatible 






INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. 



with the income of the family, and yet the cutlets be wel) 
cooked. Most have a few slices of bacon with either cut- 
lets or liver ; the fat from this, if the bacon be not rank, 
will do very nicely ; and if the meat be well flavored and 
fried quickly, and some nice gravy made to it, few persons 
would know the diffcicnce. Some like thickened and some 
plain gravy to these fried meats ; some a large quantity, 
others very little ; all these must be accommodated. To 
make these gravies, have ready a little burnt sugar to brown 
with ; empty the pan of the fat, if it be, as is most likely, 
too rank to use ; put some warm water, as much as you wish 
to make, in the pan ; mix very smoothly sufificient flour 
and water to thicken it to taste ; into this put as much 
butter as you like to use (a little will do, more will make it 
richer) ; pepper and salt it sufficiently ; stir it very smoothly 
into the pan, while the water is only warm ; stir it well until 
it boils, and brown it with the burnt sugar to your taste. 
This will be a cheap and very nice gravy for all fried meats ; 
and where meat is short, children are very fond of such 
over potatoes, haricot beans, or even bread in their plates ; 
and not being too rich or greasy it will not disagree with 
them. Care must be taken after the gravy is boiled not to 
let it boil fast for any length of time, as all thickened gxay'xes, 
hashes, etc., boil away very fast and dry up ; neither must it 
stand still in the pan ; a whitish scum then settles on the 
top and spoils the appearance of it. On the plainest and 
humblest dinner table, dishes may as well look inviting. 
N. B. — For all frying purposes be particular that the pan is 
thoroughly hot before using. 



SOUPS. 



1. OIiO'\l7SXE> or SCOTCH S0T7F> — Ingredients— 2 gallons of 

liquor from meat, i pint of oatmeal, 'J onions, salt and 
pepper. 

Any kind o' liquor, either salt of fresh ; remove all fat from 
it, and put in a stewpan. Mix the oatnieal with a. }4 o( a. pint 
of the liquor, into a smooth paste ; chop the onions as finely 
as possible, and put them into the paste, add salt and pepper 
to taste. Allow the liquor to boil before stirring in the paste, 
boil twenty minutes, stirring occasionally to prevent it getting 
lumpy. N.B. — Salt to be omitted if salt liquor is used. 

2. IflAOAHONl SOTJP. — Ingredients— 5 ots. worth of bones, 

1 tablespomiful of salt and peppercorns, 1 good sized turnip 
and 4 leeks, 2 carrots, 4 onions, 2 cloves, I blade of mace, 1 
bunch of herbs, i. e. marjoram, thyme, leraou-thyma and 
parsley, J lb. of macaroni. 

Time required about 2>2 hours. Break up the bones and 
put them into a stewpan with cold water enough to cover 
them and one quart more. When on the point of boiling put 
in a tablespoonful of sr^.lt to help the scum to rise, then take 
the turnip, peel it and cut it in quarters ; then take two car- 
rots, wash and scrape them ; take also 4 leeks, wash and shred 
them up finely ; now take 4 onions, peel them and stick 2 
cloves into them ; then skim the soup well and put in the 
vegetables, add a blade of mace and a teaspoonful of pepper- 
corns, then allow soup to simmer gently for 2}4 hours, then 
take j^ lb. of macaroni, wash and put in a stewpan with 
plenty of cold water and a little salt. Allow it to boil until 
tender, then strain off the water and pour some cold water on, 
to wash the macaroni again ; then cut in small pieces and '.■ is 
ready for the soup. When the soup is ready for use strain li 
over the macaroni. 

3. MILS SOUP' — Ingredients — 4 potatoes, 2 leeks or onions, 

2 oz. of buttar, pepper, i oz. of salt, 1 pint of milk, 3 table' 
spoonfuls of tapioca. 

Put 2 qts. of water into a stewpan, then take 4 potatoes, peel 
and cut in quarters, take also 2 leeks, wash well in cold water 
and cut them up ; when the water boils put in potatoes and 
leeks, then add the butter, salt, and pepper to taste. Allow it 
to boil to a mash, then strain the soup through a cullender, 
working the vegetables through also ; return the pulp and the 



1 8 MRS. CLARKE'S COOKERY BOOK. SoUPS. 

soup to the stewpan, add one pint of milk to it and boil ; when 
boiling, sprinkle in by degrees tapioca, stirring all the time ; 
then let it boil for 15 minutes gently. 

4. TAFIOOA S0T7F. — Ingredients — 1 pint of white stock, 1 oz. 

of tapioca, yolks of 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream or 
milk, pepper and salt. 

Put stock on to boil, then stir in gradually the tapioca, and 
allow it to simmer until quite clear, then to the yolks of the 
eggs add the cream or milk and stir with wooden spoon, strain 
into biisin. Take stock from the fire to cool a little, add by 
degrees three tablespoonfuls of it to the liaison, stirring well 
all the time. Then mix all together, stir well, and add pepper 
and salt to taste. Warm before serving, but do not boil. 

5. SPE.I1T& VEQETABLB SOTJP.— Ingredients— 2 lbs. of the 

shin of beef, 2 lbs. of knuckle of veal, a little salt, 2 young 
carrots, 1 turnip, 1 leek, i head of celery, 1 cauliflower, 1 
gill of peas, ^ of saltspoonf ul of carbonate of soda. 

Cut the meat from the bone — do not use the fat ; break the 
bones in halves, do not use the marrow. Put the meat and 
bones into a stock pot with five pints of cold water, a teaspoon- 
ful of salt will assist the scum to rise, boil quickly and remove 
s-:um as it rises, then simmer gently five hours. Cut carrots 
and turnips in slices, the head of celery and leek wash well and 
cut in squares, put the cauliflower in sprigs after washing. 
One hour before serving add vegetables ; the sprigs of cauli- 
flower can be put in fifteen minutes before serving. Put one 
gill of peas, a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter of a saltspoonful of 
soda into boiling water and boil fifteen minutes, then put peas 
in tureen and pour soup over them. 

<3. QOOD GRAVY SOITP.— Ingredients— l lb. of beef, 1 lb. 
of veal, 1 lb. of mutton, 6 'juarts of water, 1 crust of liread, 
1 carrot, 1 onion, a little summer savox'y, 4 cloves, pepper, 
and a blade of mace. 

Cut the meat in small pieces and put into the water, with the 
«rust of bread toasted very crisp. Peel the carrot and onion, 
and, with a little summer savory, pepper, four cloves, and a 
blade of mace, put in the stew-pan. Cover it and let it stew 
slowly until the liquor is reduced to three qts. Then strain it, 
take off the fat, and serve with sippets of toast. 

7. SOOTOB 1CT7TT01T SHOTS. — Ingredients — 2 qts. of water, 

neck of mutton, 4 or 5 carrots, 4 or 5 turnips, 3 onions, 4 

large spoonfula of Scotch barley, salt to taste, some chopped 

patsley. 

Soak a neck of mutton in water for an hour ; cut off* the 

scrag, and put it into a stew-pot with two quarts of water. 

Ay soon as it boils skim it well, and then simmer it an hour 



Soups. Mrs. clarke's cookery iooK. 19 

and a half; then take the best end of the mutton, cut it into 
pieces (two bones in each), take some of the fat off, and put as 
many as you think proper; skim the moment the fresh meat 
boils up, and every quarter of an hour afterwards. Have ready 
four or five carrots, the same number of turnips, and three 
onions, all cut, but not small, and put them in aoon enough to 
get quite tender ; add four large spoonfuls of Scotch barley, 
first wetted with cold water. The meat should stew three 
hours. Salt to taste, and serve all together. Twenty minutes 
before serving put in some chopped parsley. It is an excellent 
winter dish. 

8. A BOAST SEEF AlTD BOILED TUniSEY SOTTP.- 
Ingredients — Bones of a turkey and beef, '2 or iJ carrots, 2 or 
3 onions, 2 or 3 turnips, ^ doz. cloves, pepper, salt, and 
tomatoes, 2 tablespoonf uls of flour, some bread. 

Take the liquor that the turkey is boiled in, and the bones 
of the turkey and besf ; put them into a soup-pot with two or 
three carrots, turnips, and onions, half a dozen cloves, pepper, 
salt, and tomatoes, if you have any ; boil it four hours, then 
strain all out. Put the soup back into the pot, mix two table- 
spoonfuls of flour into a little cold water ; stir it into the soup ; 
give it one boil. Cut some bread dice form, lay it in the bottom 
of the tureen, pour the soup on to it, and color with a little soy. 

8. VEAL OH LAMB SOXTP.— Ingredients— Knuckle of veal, 
2 onions, 5 or 6 turnips, some sweet iiiaijoram, salt and 
cayenne pepper, flour, 6 or 8 potatoes, u few dumplings, 1 
tablespoonfui of burnt sugar. 

Take a knuckle of veal crack the bone, wash, and put it on 
taboil in more tnan sufficient water to cover it. After boilii'g 
some time, pare, cut, and wash two onions, five or six turnips, 
and put in with the meat. When this has boiled one hour, add 
some sweet marjoram, rubbed fine, with salt and cp.yer.ne pep- 
per to taste. Then take flour, which mix witii cold w -.ter to 
the consistency of cream, and add to the soip v/hi|j boiling. 
Care must be taken not to make it too thick. Then pare and 
cut into small pieces six or eight potatots, which aid about 
half an hour before being served ; and about t n minutes before 
sending to table put in a few dumplings. As veal makes a 
white soup, the color is much improved by adding a table- 
spoonful of burnt sugaro This soup may be thickened with 
rice, if preferable. 

10. PREITOH SOTTP. —Ingredients— 1 sheep's head, 3 qts. of 
water, 1 bunch of sweet herbs, I toacupful of -learl barley, G 
onions, 1 turnip, \ carrot, few cloves, v/incglasg of wnite 
wine, mushroom catsup, butter and flour. 

Take one sheep's head, remove the brains, and steep it as 



20 MRS. CLARKE'S COOKERY BOOK. SoUPS 



before. Put it into a saucepan with three quarts of water, one 
teacupful of pearl barley, six onions, one turnip, one carrot, a 
bunch of sweet herbs, and a few cloves. Let it simmer gently 
for about five hours, then remove the head ; strain and rub 
the vegetables through a sieve, or leave them whole, accord- 
ing to taste. Let it stand all night, and when cold take off 
every particle of fat ; cut up the meat from the head into small 
pieces, and warm it up in tho soup. Season to taste, add a 
wineglassful of white wine, a little mushroom ketchup, and 
thicken with butter and flour. This will be found very little in- 
ferior to mock turtle soup. 

11. G'ZIBSZ SOUP.— Ingredients — 4 lbs. of lean beef, 1 lb. of 

lean mutton, 1 lb. of veal, 4 oz. of lean ham, 4 carrots, 4 
onions, 1 head of celery, a little soy, a few allspice and a few 
coriander seeds, some pepper and salt, 10 quarts of water. 

Cut up the beef, mutton, and veal into small pieces, and 
throw into a stewpan with ten quarts of cold water ; add a 
little salt, and then place on the stove to boil ; take off the 
scum, add a little cold water, and take off the second scum ; 
then cut up the carrots, onions, and celery and throw in the 
pot ; add a little more salt, a few allspice, and coriander seeds ; 
ivt it simmer six hours, color the soup with a little soy, and 
strain it through a fine cloth ; take ofif any fat that may be on 
the soup with a sheet of paper ; before sending to table boil 
the soup, and place in the tureen a little fried lean ham cut 
into small pieces. 

12. QIBLBT SOTTP.— Ingredients— 3 sets of ducks' gililets, 21bs. 

of beef, some bones, slianli bones of two legs of mutton, ',i 
onions, some herbs, pepper and salt, carrots, 3 quarts of wa- 
ter, I pint of cream, 1 oz. of butter, 1 spoonful of flour. 

Thoroughly clean three sets of ducks' giblets, cut them in 
pieces, and stew with two lbs. of beef, some bones, the shank 
bones of two legs ot mutton, three small onions, some herbs, 
pepper and salt to taste, and carrots, for three hours in three 
quarts of water. Strain and skim, add one quarter pint of 
cream mixed with one ounce of butter kneaded with a spoon- 
ful of flour and serve with the giblets. (Only the gizzard should 
be cut.) 

13. CALF'S HEAD SOUP.— Ingredients— 7 lbs. of shin of beef, 

a little lean ham, 5 (|ts. of water, I oz. of salt, savory herbs, 
1 onion, some celery, 3 carrots, 2 turnips, a little mace, 8 or 
10 cloves, some peppercorns, i calf's head, 8 oz. of fine rice 
flour, J teaspoonful of cayenne, some pounded mace, 2 glas- 
ses of sherry, some forcemeat. 

Stew seven lbs. of shin of beef with a little lean ham in five 
quarts of water till reduced one-half, adding, when boiling, 
one ounce of salt, savoury herbs, one onion, some celery, three 



Soups. mrs. clarke's cookery book. 21 



carrots, two turnips, a little mace, eight or ten cloves, some 
peppercorns. It should gently boil seven hours and then be 
set aside for use. In this stock stew half a boned ':alf's head, 
rolled and tied with a string, half an hour ; let it Jool in the 
liquor, strain and skim and heat five pints in a la<ge saucepan 
with the flesh of the head cut into dice ; use all the skin and 
tongue but only part of the flesh. Simmer till quite tender, 
stirring in eight oz. of fine rice flour, one quarter teaspoon- 
ful of cayenne, pounded mace, and some more broth or 
water if thicker than batter. Boil ten minutes, add two glasses 
of sherry, and serve the soup with fried forcemeat. 

H. MTTLLAGATA'WITY S0T7P- — Ingredients— Some good but- 
ter, 3 or 4 large onions, limbs of a rabbit cr fowl, 5^ pints 
of boiling stock, 2 tablespoonfuls of cnrrie powder, and 3 of 
browKcd flour, a little cold stock and meat, part of a pickled 
mango, some carefully boiled rice, the juice of a lemon. 

Slice and fry in some good butter three or four large onions ; 
put them in a saucepan with a little butter, and brown in it the 
limbs of a rabbit or fowl well floured. Add one quart of good 
boiling stock, and stew gently one hour. Pass the stock and 
onions through a strainer, add one and a half pints more stock, 
put it in a clean pan, and when boiling add two tablespoonsful 
of currie powder mixed with three of browned flour, a little 
cold stock and meat, and simmer 20 minutes. Part of a pick- 
led mango cut into shreds is often served with the soup, and 
some like the taste of freshly grated cocoa nut, but it is Ijy no 
means generally admired. Send to table with carefully boiled 
rice. The juice of a lemon added before serving is an improve- 
ment. , 

15. OYSTER SOTJP A LA RBIlTB.-Ingredients-2 or 3 doz. 

small oysters, some palo veal stock, 2 qts. of stock, mace, 
cayenne, 1 pt. boiling cream. 

Two or three dozen small oysters to each pint of soup 
should be prepared. Take the beards and simmer them sepa- 
rately in a little very pale veal stock thirty minutes. Heat two 
quarts of the stock, flavor with mace and cayenne, and add 
the strained stock from the oyster beards. Simmer the fish in 
their own liquor, add to it the soup and one pint of boiling 
cream. Put the oysters in a tureen, pour over the soup, and 
serve, If not thick enough thicken with arrowroot or butter 
mixed with flour. 

16. OHIOSBIT SOTJP (Brown).— Ingredients -Ope or two fowls, 

a bunch of herbs, 1 carrot, 1 onion, 2 oz. lean ham, 2 oz. of 
butter, pepper and salt, 2 quarts of good stock, and a little 
roux, a few allspice, a little grated nutmeg and mace. 

Cut up the carrot and onion, and fry in 2 oz. of good butter 
a nice light brown, add the ham and fowls cut up small, taking 



22 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Soups. 



care to break up the bones with a chopper, add the stock, and 
boil until the fowl is cooked to rags ; thicken with a little roux, 
add the allspice and mace and a little grated nutmeg, color 
with a little soy, add seasoning to taste. Serve with the soup 
some plain boiled rice. 

17. BEE? GRAVY SOUP.— TngrccHents— Snme beef water, 2 
oz. of salt to every gal of water. 4 turnips, 2 carrots, some 
celery, 4 young leeks, cloves, 1 onion, i teaspoonful of 
peppercoi'ns, some savory herbs. 

Various parts of beef are used for this ; if the meat, after 
the soup is made, is to be sent to the table, rump steak or the 
best parts of the leg are generally used, but if soup alone is 
wanted, part of the shin with a pound from the neck will do 
very well. Pour col J water on the beef in the soup pot 
and heat the soup slowly, the slower the better, letting it sim- 
mer beside the fire, strain it carefully, adding a little cold 
water now and then, put in two oz. of salt for every gallon of 
water, skim again, and put in four turnips, two carrots, some 
celery, four young leeks, six cloves stuck into an onion, half a 
teaspoonful of peppercorns, and some savory herbs ; let the 
soup boil gently for six hours; strain. 

IS. RIOE-rLOTJE. SOUP.— Ingredients— A little cold broth, 8 
oz. of tine rice-flour, 2 qts. of fast boilinc broth, mace, cay- 
enne and Halt, 2 dessert spoonfuls of currie powder, juice of 
^ a lemon. 

Mix to a smocih b.itter, with a little cold broth, eight oz. of 
fine rice flow, and pour it into a couple of quarts of fast boil- 
ing broth or grrvy sjup. Add to it a seasoning of mace and 
cayenne, wiih a little salt if needful. It will require but ten 
minMi' ■ loilin;;. T^'o dessert spoonfuls of currie powder, and 
the stiulned j;:!i e of half a moderate sized lemon, will greafly 
innprcve this soup ; it may also be converted into a good cot.> 
mon v.'hite toup (if it be made of real stock) by the addition 
of thrc-n quarters of a pint of thick cream to the rice. 

19. MELS SOTTP "WITH VBRMIOELLI.-Ingredients-Salt, 
5 pints of boiling milk, 5 oz. of fresh vermicelli. 

Throw a small quantity of salt into five pints of boiling 
milk, and then drop lightly into it five oz. of good fresh ver- 
micelli ; keep the milk stirred as this is added, to prevent its 
gathering into lumps, and continue to stir it very frequently 
from fifteen to twenty minutes, or until it is perfectly tender. 
The addition of a little pounded sugar and powdered cinna- 
mon makes this a very palatable dish. For soup of this de- 
scription, rice, semolina, sago, cocoa-nut, sago and maccaroni, 
may all be used, but they will be required in rather srpallcr 
proportions to the milk, 



Soups. mrs. Clarke's cookery book, 23 



20. GRBBIT FEA SOTJP-— Ingredients -4 lbs. of beef, ^ pk. of 

green peas, 1 gal of water, ^ cup of rice-flour, salt, pepper 
and chopped parsley. 

Four lbs. beef, cut into small pieces, half a peck of green 
peas, one gallon water, half a cup of rice-flour, salt, pepper 
and chopped parsley ; boil the empty pods of the peas in the 
water one hour before putting in the beef. Strain them out, 
add the beef, and boil slowly for an hour and a half longer. 
Half an hour before serving, add the shelled peas, and twenty 
minutes later, the rice-fiour, with salt, pepper and parsley. 
After adding the rice-flour, stir frequently, to prevent scorch- 
ing. Scrain into a hot tureen. 

21. CELERY SOTJP.— Ingredients— The white part of three 

heads of celery, half a lb. of rice, 1 onion, 1 quart of 
stock, 2 quarts of milk, pepper and salt, and a little ronx. 

Cut up the celery and onions very small, boil tbem in the 
stock until quite tender, add the milk and the rice, and boil 
together until quite a pulp, add pepper and salt and a liitle 
roux, strain through a fine hair sieve or metal strainer, luid 
boil a few minutes, taking care it does not burn. Serve some 
small croutons of fried bread with it. 

22. TOMATO SOTJP. — Ingredients — 4 lbs. of tomaitoGs, '2 

onions, 1 carrot, 2 quarts of stock or broth, pepper and salt, 
a little roux, 2 oz. of fresh butter. 

Cut up the onions and carrot, place them in a stewpan with 
the butter, and lightly fry them. Take the seeds out of the 
tomatoes, then put them in the stewpan with the fried onions 
and carrot, add the stock, pepper and salt, and let them boil 
for one hour, occasionally stirring them : add a little roux to 
thicken the soup, and strain through a fine hair sieve. Serve 
the soup very hot, and send to table with it some small pieces 
of fried bread, sprinkled with chopped parsley. 

23. "VTHITS SOTTF' — Ingredients — 6 oz. of sweet almonds, 6 oz. of 

the breast of roasted chicken, 3 oz. of white bread, some veal 
Btock, I pint of thick cream. 

Pound six oz. of sweet almonds, six oz. of the breast of roasted 
chicken, and three oz. of white bread soaked in veal stock and 
squeezed dry. Beat all to a paste and pour ever it two quarts 
of boiling veal stock, strain through a hair sieve, add one pint 
of thick cream, and serve as soon as it is on the point of 
boiling. 

24. A PPTiFi SOXTP- — Ingredients — 12 large fresh apples, 2 spoon- 

fuls of sugar or syrup, i lb of raisiuB or apples, 1 spoonful of 
potato meal. 
Dry well twelve large fresh apples, cut them in quarters, and 
put them into a pan with boiling water. When the soup has a 



24 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Soups. 

strong taste of apples, strain it through a hair sieve, and add 
more water, until there are about nine pints ; add two good 
spoonfuls of sugar or syrup, half a pound of well-washed and 
picked raisins, or apples pared and cut in pieces, which must 
be boiled until soft. The soup is to be thickened with a 
goot ;,poonful of potato-meal, dissolved in a little water. It is 
best cold. 

25. SOTJP A LA DATJPHIITE— Ingredicnt8~Si:c pounds of lean 

beef, 4 carrota, '2. turnips, 4 onions, 1 head of celery, 4 oz. of 
lean ham, pepper and salt, a little soy, 2 bay lea%'C3, a bunch 
of herbs, a few allspice, 2 blades of mace, r> quarts of water. 

Cut up the onions, carrots, turnips, and celery into small 
pieces, and lay in the bottom of a large stewpan ; cut up the 
six lbs. of lean beef, and lay on the top of the vegetables, 
sprinkle a little salt over it, and cook over the fire (taking care 
it does not burn) for two hours, add five quarts of water, and 
bring it to the boil ; take off the fat and scum, add a little more 
cold water, and throw in two blades of mace, two bay leaves, a 
bunch of herbs, four oz. of lean ham cut up very fine, and a few 
allspice, color a light brown with a little soy, and simmer for 
five hours, and then strain through a fine cloth, and with a 
sheet of paper take off any floating fat; boil again, and before 
serving throw in the soup some green taragon leaves and a 
little chervil. 

26. JULIENNE SOUP.— Ingredients— 1 can-ot, 1 turnip, 1 stick 

of celery, 3 parsnips, 2 or y cabbage leaves, butter, 1 lettuce, 
1 handful of sorrel and chervil, stock, salt and pepper. 

Cut in very small slices a carrot, a turnip, a stick of celery, 
three parsnips, and two or three cabbage leaves, put them in 
a saucepan with butter and give them a nice color, shaking the 
saucepan to prevent them from sticking to the bottom, then 
add a lettuce and a handful of sorrel and chervil torn in small 
pieces, moisten these with stock and leave them on the fire for 
a few minutes, then boil up, add the whole of the stock and 
boil gently for three hours ; season with salt and pepper. 

27. MULLAQATAWNT.— Ingredients— 1 chicken or ral^bit, 

butter, flour, 2 qts. of veal stock, salt, white pepper, curry 
powder, cayenne pepper and salt, 1 large spoonful of rice, i 
pint of cream. 

Stew a chicken or a rabbit in a little butter until tender, and 
when done wash in warm water. Put a little butter and flour 
in another stewpan, stir for five minutes, then add two quarts 
of good veal stock in which you have boiled carrots, turnips, 
celery and onions ; the stock being also flavored with salt and 
white pepper, and carefully skimmed and strained. Boil for 
fifteen minutes, then add the chicken or rabbit cut in small 



Soups. mrs. clarke's cookery book. 25 

pieces, flavor with curry powder, cayenne pepper and salt, put 
in a large spoonful of rice, and boil until the rice ia tender. 
Skim carefully, and before serving stir in half a pint of cream. 
The quantity of curry powder must depend upon taste ; two 
tablespoonfuls will probably be sulTicient for this quantity of 
soup. 

28. SPANISH SOTJP(l).— Ingredients— li;iba. of mutton or veal, 

1 ^ lbs. of garbanzos or chick peas, 1 slice of lean raw ham, 
remnants of game or poultry, a little bacon, salt, vegetables. 

Throw one lb. and a half of either mutton or veal in a ves- 
sel, with water (the Spaniards use a pipkin, called in the 
vernacular a " marmite,"). one lb. and a half of "garbanzos," 
or chick peas, one good slice of lean raw ham, and any debris 
(no matter how small) of game or poultry. Cook gently with 
the lid on, skim, and add a little bacon cut small, and as much 
salt as necessary ; cook for another halt-hour, then pour off the 
broth slowly, to be used afterwards for the soup and sauce ; 
add as much vegelable as you please, thoroughly well washed, 
and cook over a clear fire until done. About five minutes be- 
fore the 011a is ready, it is de rigueur in Madrid kitchens to 
throw in a piece of " chorizo " (black pudding). Serve the 
meat separately on one dish, the vegetables on another, and in 
a third the sauce for the whole, either of the following being 
appropriate. 

Tomato. — Cook three or four large juicy tomatoes until 
quite tender, and pass them through a sieve. Add some of 
the broth, some vinegar and salt, to the purde. 

Parsley. — Pound some young parsley and bread crumbs 
in a mortar. Moisten with the broth, add vinegar and salt to 
taste. 

These sauces should properly be served in a small silver or 
china bowl, surrounded by vegetables. For the tomato, spring 
and summer vegetables, and for the parsley sauce, those of 
autumn and winter are customarily used, with the rigorous ex- 
clusion, in both cases, of cabbage. 

A Cocido compounded of the above ingredients, without the 
auxiliary black pudding or vegetables, the Spaniards call a 
" Puchero," de los enfermas. 

29, SPANISH sour (2),— Ingredients— 1 clove of garlic, 7 well- 

dried beans or almonds, olive oil and water, vinegar and salt, 
bre»dcru;Tibs. 

The second soup, Ajo bianco, or white garlic soup, :s more 
intricate in its manufacture, though compounded of as auaint 
and unlikely materials. It is extensively eaten in Andalusia 
To be cempletely varacious, I must of necessity commence 
with that formidable brother to our harmless, necessary little 



26 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Soups. 



s 



onion — big garlic. Pound one clove of garlic and seven well- 
dried beans, or better still, almonds, in a small spice mortar to 
a smooth paste. Moisten this paste with olive oil, drop by 
drop, then water by degrees, so as to thoroughly incorporate 
and amalgamate the whole. Add until it is sufficiently wet to 
soak some bread, which must be added later on, pouring in 
some vinegar and a little salt. Then pat in the bread crumbs, 
size of half an almond, and allow it to soak. A final mixing 
of the bowl, and this quaint and perfectly national dish awaits 
your consumption. 

30. SPANISH SOTTP (.3).— Ingredients— Chives, cucumber, some 

water, 1 pinch of salt, some lemon juice, some oil, crumbled 
bread, cjiopped marjoram. 

Put some chopped chives and cucumber cut up in the shape 
of dice into a large salad bowl, add a small quantity of water, 
a pinch of salt, lemon juice and oil. Throw in some crumbled 
bread, which must be able to float. Finally sprinkle some 
fine chopped marjoram over the whole, and your "gaspacho" 
is ready. 

31. ALiMOlTS SO'^F- — Ingredients — Some sweet almonds, pound- 

ed white sugar, pounded cinnamon, l)read. 

This is the usual dish for a Christmas supper, and is eaten 
hot. It is of almost Arcadian simplicity. Throw some sweet 
almonds in boiling water to get rid of the husk, skin and pound 
them in a mortar with some lukeiunrm water, adding by de- 
grees pounded white sugar and pounded cinnamon ; turn it 
©ut on a plate or dish, which must be able to stand the fire, 
previously lining the bottom with fingers of bread powdered 
with cinnamon. Thoroughly heat these ingredients over a clear 
fire and serve. 

32. BARLEY SOTTP (ORBME D'OROE).— Ingredienta-i pint 

of pearl barley, 1 qt. of white stock, the yolk of 1 egg, I gill 
of cream, \ pat of fresh butter, bread. 

Boil half a pint of pearl barley in a quart of white stock till 
it is reduced to a pulp, pass it through a hair sieve, and add 
to it as much well-flavored white stock as will give a purde of 
the consistency of cream ; put the soup on the fire, when it 
boils stir into it, off" the fire, the yolk of an egg beaten up with 
a gill of cream ; add half a pat of fresh butter, and serve with 
small dice of bread fried in butter. 

33. LOBSTER SOTTP (BISQTTE).— Ingredients— l lobster, but- 

ter, ^icpper, salt, and grated nutmeg, breadcrumbs, stock, 1 
tablespoonful of flour, bread. 

Pick out all the meat from a lobster, pound it in a mortar 
with an equal quantity of butter until a fine orange-colored 



Soups. mrs. clarke's cookery book. a; 

— I-. !■ .iM^— I.-. ■- -■■-— »i..i... — -ir.— ..'■..ii.. Ill * 

pulp is obtained ; to this add pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg 
to taste. Take as much bread crumbs as there is lobster pulp, 
soak them in stock, then melt a piece of butter in ti saucepan, 
amalgamate with it a heaped tablespoonful of flour ; mix the 
lobster pulp with the bread crumbs, and put them into the 
saucepan with the butter and flour, stir well, and add more 
stock until a purde is obtained, rather thinner in consistency 
than the soup should be. Put the saucepan^on the fire, stirring 
the contents until they thicken and boil ; draw it then on one 
side, and carefully skim off superfluous fat, then strain the 
soup through a hair sieve, make it boiling hot, and serve with 
small dice of bread fried in butter. 

34. SOTJP lAASE FROM BONES-— Ingredients— Bones of .,ny 
frebhly roasted meat, remnants of any poultry or game, 
, fresh livers, gizzards, necks, combs of any poultry, 1 slioc of 
lean ham, salt, 1 onion, 1 turnip, 1 leek, 1 head of c"-!ory, 4 
carrots, .3 tomatoes, ^ of bay leaf, .3or 4 cloves, 6 pepper- 
corns, 3 allspice, 1 bunch of parsley and chevril, tapioca, sago, 
vermccelli or semolina. 

Have the bones of any freshly roasted meat — beef, veal, 
pork, venison, mutton or lamb — broken up into largish pieces, 
the four first sorts may be mixed with advantage, while mut- 
ton and lamb are better alone. Add the carcases or remain- 
ing limbs of any roast poultry — ducks, fowls, pigeons, geese, 
turkey or game, and the fresh livers, gizzards, necks, and 
combs ©f any poultry you happen to be going to cook the same 
day, and a slice of lean ham if you have it. Put all these 
together in an earthen soup pan that will stand the fire and 
will hold one-third more cold water than you require for 
your soup to allow for the loss in boiling ; fill with water, and 
place on a brisk fire till it boils. Then add salt (less quantity 
if there be ham in the soup), one large onion, one large tur- 
nip, one large leek, one head of celery, four large carrots, 
three sliced tomatoes, a quarter of a bay leaf, three or four 
cloves stuck into a carrot or turnip, six whole peppercorns, 
and as much more ground as is liked, three allspice whole, 
and, finally, a good-sized bunch of parsley and chevril tied to- 
gether. We find apiece of calf's liver and a fresh young cab- 
bage an improvement, but this is a matter of taste. When 
boiling skim thoroughly, and take the pot off the fire, placing 
it quite at the edge so as merely to simmer gently — or, as the 
French call it, to smtVe — for six hours at least. The great art 
in making this sort of simple broth is never to let the fire go 
down too much, nor to allow the soup to boil too fast, so as not 
to require filling up with other water to replace what has been 
consumed — or, rather, wasted by rapid ebullition. Half an 
hour before you require your soup take it off the fire and 



28 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Soups. 



strain through a cullender, then through a fine sieve, and put 
ft on a brisk fire. When quite boiling add tapioca, sago, ver- 
micelli, or semolina, scattering it lightly, and allowing one 
tablespoonful to each person. Rice may also be used, but it 
requires a full half hour, and consumes more broth. We use 
this broth as a foundation to every kind of vegetables purees. 

35. HAHE SOTJP.— Ingredients— 1 hare (newly killed), 1 lb. of 

lean beef, 1 slice of ham, 1 carrot, 2 onions, some herbs, 
roll crumbs, salt, pepper, .S qts. water, ^ bottle port, the 
liver of the animal. 

For this purpose, if possible, a young newly-killed animal 
should be used ; in cleaning and skinning it preserve the 
blood and liver ; cut it in pieces and put it in a saucepan with 
one pound of lean beef, a slice of ham, a carrot, two onions, 
some herbs, the crumb of two rolls, some salt, pepper, and 
three quarts of water ; let it boil gently for eight hours ; add 
quarter of a bottle of port ; chop the liver and mix it with 
the blood, and put the mixture into the saucepan, stirring well 
for a little while, then remove the pieces of h?re, bone them 
and cut them in small pieces, pass the soup through a hair 
sieve and then put back the pieces of hare before serving. 

36. OZTAIL SOTTP (Cloar). — ingredients— l oxtail, 4 carrots, 4 

onions, 2 turnips, 1 bunch of herbs, little allspice, 1 head of 
celery, 2 qts. of good stock, a little soy, 2 glasses of sherry, 
pepper, salt, ^ lb. of lean beef. 

Cut up the oxtail into small pieces, well blanch them in salt 
and water, boil them in water, throw into cold water. Cut up 
the vegetables into small pieces (taking care to save some of 
the best pieces for boiling to go in the soup to table), throw 
them into a stewpan with the herbs, allspice, soy, pepper and 
salt, put the oxtail on the top, cover with the gravy, and cook 
until the tail is quite tender. When cooked, take out the 
tail, and cut up half a pound of lean beef quite fine and throw 
in the gravy, let it boil a few minutes, and strain through a 
cloth, add the pieces of tail and some pieces of carrot and tur- 
nip cooked as follows : Boil the vegetables in water, with a little 
sugar, salt, and a small piece of butt-^r. Serve very hot. 

37. OZTAIL SOUP (Thick)- — ^Ingredients — 1 oxtail, S carrots, 4 

onions, 4 turnips, allspice, 1 head of celery, 1 qt. of water, 1 
qt. of stock, a pinch of pepper, lugar and salt, a little sherry, 
some roux. 

Cut up the oxtail into small pieces, throw them into cold 
water with a little salt, bring them to the boil, and throw them 
into clean cold water. Cut up the vegetables into a stewpan, 
place the oxtail on the top, cover with the water and stock, let 
it simmer until the oxtail is quite tender, take out the pieces 



Soups. mrs. clarkf/s cookery book. 99 

of tail, add the roux to the gravy, also the sugar and the sea- 
soning. Boil well together, strain through a fine hair sieve, 
taking care to pass the vegetable pulp through, add the sherry, 
drop in the pieces of tail, and bring to the boil. Let it stand 
on the side of the stove until wanted. 

38. MOOS TT7RTLB SOTJP.— Ingredients— A knuckle of veal, 2 

cow's heels, 2 onions, a few clovefc, a little allspice, mace and 
sweet herbs, 2i qts. of water, 1 tablespoonful of sugar, 2 
tablespoon fills of walnut, 1 of mushroom catsup, 1 table- 
spoouful of lemon juice, forcemeat balls. 

Put into a large pan or jar a knuckle of veal, two well- 
cleaned cow-heels, two onions, a few cloves, a little allspice, 
mace, and some sweet herbs ; cover all with two and a half 
quarts of water, and set it in a hot oven for three hours. Then 
remove it, and when cold take off the fat very nicely, take 
away the bones and coarse parts, and when required, put the 
remainder on the fire to warm, with a tablespoonful of moist 
sugar, two of walnut, and one of mushroom catsup ; add to 
these ingredients the jelly of the meat. "When it is quite hot 
put in the forcemeat balls, and add a teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

39. MOOK TTTLTLB SOUP-— Ingredients— i a calf's head, i lb. 

of butter, ^ lb. of lean ham, two tablespoonfuls of minced 
parsley, a little minced lemon thyme, a little sweet marjoram 
and basil, two onions, a few chopped mushrooms, 2 shallots, 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1^ doz, forcemeat balls about the 
size of a nutmeg ; cayenne and salt, to suit your taste ; the 
juice of one lemon, and 1 Seville orange, 1 dessertfcpoonful of 
pounded sugar, 3 quarts of best stock. 
Proceed as in Recipe No. 38. 

40. OITIOIT SOTJP. — Ingredients— Water that has boiled a leg or 

neck of mutton, 1 shank bone, 6 onions, 4 carrots, 2 turnips, 
salt to taste. 

Into the water that has boiled a leg or neck of mutton put 
(he carrots ard turnips, shank bone, and simmer two hours, 
then strain it on six onions, first sliced and fried a light brown, 
simmer three hours, skim carefully, and serve. Put into it a 
little roll or fried bread. 

41. ALMONID SOUP.— Ingredients— 4 lbs. of lean beef or veal, 

a few Vf^x'tabiis as for stock, 1 oz of vermicelli, 4 blades of 
mace, cloves, ^ lb. sweet almonds, the yolks of 4 eggs, 1 
gill of cream, 3 qts. of water. 

Boil the beef or veal, vegetables, and spices gently in the 
water that will cover them, till the gravy is vefy strong, and 
the meat very tender; then strain off the gravy, and set it on 
the fire with the specified quantity of vermicelli to 2 quarts. 
Let boil till sufificiently cooked. Have ready the almonds, 
blanched and pounded very fine j the yolks of the eggs boiled 



30 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Soups. 

hard ; mixing the almonds, whilst pounding, with a little of the 
soup, lest the latter should grow oily. Pound them to a pulp 
and keep adding to them, by degrees, a little soup, until they 
are thoroughly mixed together. Let the soup be cool when 
mixing, and do it perfectly smooth. Strain it,'set it'on the fire, 
stir well and serve hot ; just before taking it up add the cream, 

42. BEL SOUP. — Ingredients— 3 lbs. of eels, 1 onion, 1 oz. of but- 

ter, 3 blades of mace, 1 bunch of sweet herbs, { oz. of pepper- 
corns, salt, 2 tableapoonfuls of flour, J pt. cream, 2 qts. water. 

Wash the eels, cut them into thin slices and put them in the 
stew-pan with the butter; let them simmer for a few minutes, 
then pour the water to them, and add the onion cut in small 
slices, the herbs, mace and seasoning. Simmer till the eels are 
tender, but do not break the fish. Remove them carefully, mix 
flour smoothly to a batter with the cream, bring it to a boil, 
pour over the eels, and serve. 

43. TOMATO S0T7F. — Ingredients— £ middling sized tomatoes, 

1 bundle of sweet herbs, 1 clove of garlic, 1 onion stuck with 
3 or 4 cloves, a little allspice, whole pepper, salt to taste, 1 
qt. of stock, 2 eggs. 
Take tomatoes, cut them in twc, and removing the pips of 
watery substance, put them in a saucepan, with a bundle of 
sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, an onion stuck with three orfoar 
cloves, some allspice, whole pepper, and salt to taste. Place 
the saucepan on a gentle fire, stirring contents occasionally. 
When the tomatoes are thoroughly done, turn them out on a 
hair sieve, remove the onion, garlic, and sweet herbs ; remove 
also the moisture which will drip from the tomatoes ; then 
work them through the sieve until nothing remains on the top 
but the skins. Have a quart of plain stock boiling hot, stir 
the tomato pulp into it, and, removing the saucepan from the 
fire, stir in two eggs, beaten up with a little cold water and 
strained. Serve over small dice of bread fried in butter. 

44. ASPABAGTJS S0T7F. — Ingredients — 25 heads of asparagus, 

1 qt. of stock, I tablespoonful of flour, 1 oz. of butter, sugar, 
pepper and salt ; some spinach greening, 1 pat of fresh butter 
or 1 gill of cream, sniall dice of bread. 

Take twenty-five heads of asparagus, put them m a sauce- 
pan with a quart of stock, free from fat, let them boil till quite 
doce ; remove the asparagus, pound it in a mortar, then pass 
it througli a sieve ; mix a tablespoonful of flour and one ounce 
of butter in a saucepan on the fire, f.dd a little sugar, pepper 
and salt, quantity sufflr' nt for the asparagus pulp, and the 
stock in which the asparagus was originally boiled; let the 
whole come to a boil, then put in a little spinach greening, and 
lastly a pat of fresh butter, or stir in a gill of cream. Serve 
over small dice of bread fried in butter. 

J 



FISH. 

OBSERVATIONS ON DRESSING FISH. 

If the fishmonger does not clean it, fish is seldom very 
nicely done, but those in great towns wash it beyond what 
is necessary for cleaning, and so by much washing diminish 
the flavor. If to be boiled, some salt and a little vinegar 
should be put in the water to give firmness ; but cod, whit- 
ing, and haddock are far better if salted and ke])t a day : 
and if not very hot weather they will be better kept two 
days. Those who know how to purchase fish, may be tak- 
ing more than they want for one day, often get it cheaper ; 
and such kinds as will pot or pickle, or keep by being 
sprinkled with salt, and hung up, or being fried will serve 
for stewing the next day, may then be bought with ad- 
vantage. Fresh water fish have often a muddy smell and 
taste, to take off which soak it in strong salt and water after 
it is nicely cleaned, then dry and dress it. The fish must 
be put in the water while cold and set to do very gently, or 
the outside will break before the inner part is done. Crimp 
fish should be put into boiling water, and when it boils up 
put a little cold water in, to check extreme heat, and simmer 
it a few minutes. Small fish nicely fried, covered with egg 
and crumbs, make a dish far more elegant than if served 
plain. Great attention should be paid to the garnishing of 
fish, use plenty of horse-radish, parsley and lemon. If fish 
is to be fried or broiled it must be wrapped in a clean 
cloth after it is well cleaned. When perfectly dry, wet with 
an egg (if for frying) and sprinkle the finest bread crumbs 
over it, then, with a large quantity of lard or dripping boiling 
hot, plunge the fish into it and fry a light brown ; it can 
then be laid on blotting paper to receive any grease. 
Butter gives a bad color, oil fries the finest color for those 
who will allow for the expense. Garnish with raw or fried 
parsley4> which must be thus done : when washed and I'icked 
throw it again into clean water ; when the lard or dripping 
boils, throw the parsley into it immediately from the water 

31 



32 MRS. CLARKE'S COOKERY BOOK. FiSH, 

and instantly it will be green and crisp, and must be taken 
up with a si ice. If fish is to be broiled, it must be seasoned, 
flavored and put on a gridiron that is very clean, which 
when hot should be rubbed with a piece of suet to prevent 
the fish from sticking. It must be broiled on a very clear 
fire and not too near or it may be scorched. 



45. OOD'S SEAD AlTD SSOTTLDEES (to Boil). -Ingredients 

— 1 cod's head and shoulders, salt water, 1 glass of vinegar, 
horseradish. 

Wash and tie it up, and dry with a cloth. Salt the water, 
and put in a glass of vinegar. When boiling, take off the 
scum; put the fish in, and keep it boiling very briskly about 
half an hour. Parboil the milt and roe, cut in thin slices, fry, and 
serve them. Garnish with horse-radish ; for sauce, oysters, 
eggs, or drawn butter. 

46. OOD'S BEAD AlTD SHOTJLDERS.-Ingredients-l bunch 

parsley, 1 lemon, horseradish, milt, roc and liver. 

Tie it up, and put on the fire in cold water which will com- 
pletely cover it ; throw a handful ot salt into it. Great care 
must be taken to serve it without the smallest speck of black 
or scum. Garnish with a large quantity ot double parsley, 
lemon, horseradish, and the milt, roe and liver, and fried 
smelts if approved. If with smelts, be careful that no water 
hangs about the fish ; or the beauty ol the smelts will be taken 
off, as well as their flavor. Serve with plenty of oyster or 
shrimp sauce, and anchovy and butter. It will eat much finer 
by having a little salt rubbed down the bone, and along the 
thick part, even if to be eaten the same day. 

Though it is important to buy fresh codfish, it is not c^uite 
so well to cook it immediately, as, when freshly caught, Jt is 
apt to be watery ; but when rulabed with salt and kept a day 
or two, it acquires the firmness and creaminess so much prized. 
Cod is better crimped than when cooked whole, the operation 
of boiling being more successfully performed under these con- 
ditions. The fish may be partially crimped by scoring it at 
equal distances, without absolutely cutting it through into 
slices; but the effect of the operation is always to 
improve the fish. When thoroughly cleaned the cod should 
be scored or sliced at regular intervals of about one and a 
half or two inches, then washed clean in spring-water, and 
laid in a pan of spring-water in which a handful of salt has 
been allowed to dissolve. After about two hours' soaking in 
this brine, the fish may be washed and set to drain. Some 
people boil the cod whole ; but a large head and shoulders 



Fish. mrs. Clarke's cooKtRv book. 33 

contain all the fish that is proper to help, the thinner parts 
being overdone and tasteless, before the thick are ready. But 
the whole fish may be purchased at times more reasonably ; 
and the lower half, if sprinkled and hung up, *vill be in high 
perfection in one or two days. Or it may be made Salter, and 
served with egg-sauce, potatoes and parsnips. 

47. SALT OOS- — Ingredients — Cod, vinegar (1 glass), parsnips, 

cream, butter, flour. 
Soak and clean the piece you mean to dress, then lay it all 
night in water, with a glass of vinegar. Boil it enough, then 
break it into flakes on the dish ; pour over it parsnips boiled, 
beaten in a mortar, and then boiled up with cream and a large 
piece of butter rubbed with a little flour. It may be served as 
above with egg sauce instead of the parsnip, and the root sent 
up whole ; or the fish may be boiled and sent up without flak- 
ing, and sauces as above. 

48. OU'BXIIS OP OOD- — Ingredients- Salt and cayenne, cod, 

onions, white gravy, currie powder, butter, flour, .3 or 4 
spoonsful of cream. 

Sh-^uld be made of sliced cod, that has been either crimped 
or sprinkled a day to make it firm. Fry it of a fine brown with 
onion ; and stew it with a good white gravy, a little curri' 
powder, a piece of butter and flour, three or four spoonfuls c( 
rich cream, salt, and cayenne, if the powder be not hot enough. 

49. OODS' BOBS- — Ingredients — 1 or more cod's roes, IJ oz, of 

butter, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 pinch of cayenne pep- 
per, 1 grate of nutmeg, 1 deBse..-tspoonful of tomato or Mogul 
sauoe or vinegar. 

Boil one or more cod's roes, according to size, till auite set 
and nearly done. Take tl em out of the water, and when col I 
cut them into slices three-quarters of an inch thick. Now put 
into a small stewpan one and a half oz. of butter ; when made 
liquid o\er the fire, take it off and stir into it the yolks of two 
eggs, a small teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne pepper, a 
grate of nutmeg, and a dessert-spoonful of tomato or Mogul 
sauce, or the vinegar from any good pickle. Mix all well to^ 
gether, and stir it over the fire for two or three minutes to 
thicken. Dip the slices of cod's roe in this sauce to take up as 
much as they will, lay them in a dish, pour over them any ( f 
the sauce that may be left, put the dish into the oven for ten 
minutes, and send to table very hot. 

50. OOD-VISn 0AS33S>— Ingredients — 1 salt codfish, potatoctii 

milk, butter. 

Take salt cod-fish, or cold fresh fish, boiled ; mince it fine 
with potatoes, moistened with a little milk, having a piece of h';;- 
C 



34 MRS, CLARKE'S COOKERY BOOK. FiSH. 



ter in it. Mould into biscuit-sized cakes, and fry them to a 
light brown in butter or lard. They should be fried to the 
same color on both sides. 

51. CRIMPED COD AND OYSTER SATJCE. -Ingredients- 

Cod and salt water. 

Cut into two-inch slices the best part of a fresh cod, boil 
them twenty to twenty-five minutes in boiling salted water ; 
serve on a napkin with the sauce in a tureen. 

52. COD STAKES (vnth Mocls Oyster Sau'se).— Ingredients 

1 tail of cod or head and shoulders, salt, and breadcrumbs. 
The most economical way of having cod steaks is to order 
either the tail of a good-sized cod or a cod's head and shoulders, 
so cut that there is sufficient to take off some steaks, and what 
remains comes in for luncheon or the children's dinner the fol- 
lowing day. Sprinkle the cod with salt, and fry, either v.^ith or 
without bread crumbij, a golden brown. 

5.3. CODFISH BALLS— Ingredients— Equal quantities of pota- 
toes and boiled codfish, 1 oz. of butter, 1 egg. 

Take equal quantities of mashed potatoes and boiled codfish 
minced fine ; to each half-pound allow one ounce of butter and 
a well-beaten egg ; mix thoroughly. Press into balls between 
two spoons ; drop into hot lard, and fry till brown. 

54. SALT SALMOIT (to Souse)— Ingrcdient8--1 salt salmon, 

cayenne, whole allspice, a little mace, cold vinegar. 

Take a salt salmon, wash and cover it with plenty of clean 
water. Let it soak twenty-four hours, but be careful to change 
the water several times. Then scale it, cut it into four parts, 
wash, clean, and put on to boil. When half done change the 
water ; and when tender, drain it, put it in a stone pan, sprin- 
kle some cayenne, whole allspice, a few cloves, and a little mace 
over each piece ; cover with cold vinegar. This makes a nice 
relish for tea. 

55. SALMON (to Broil)-— Ingredients— Salmon, pepper, salt. 
Cut slices an inch thick, and season with pepper and salt ! 

lay each slice in half a sheet of white paper well buttered, twist 
the ends of the paper, and broil the slices over a slow fire six 
or eight minutes. Serve in the paper with anchovy sauce. 

56. SALMON (to rot)-—Ingrcdieut8— Salmon, a little mace, 6 

cloves, 6 whole peppers, butter. 
Take a large piece, scale and wipe, but do not wash it ; salt 
very well, let it lie till the salt is melted and drained from it, 
then season with beaten mace, cloves, and whole pepper ; lay 
in a few bay leaves, put it close into a pan, cover it over with 
butter, and bake it ; when well done, drain it from the gravy, 



Fish. mrs. ci.arke's cookery book. 35 



put it into the pots to keep, and when cold, cover it with clari- 
fied butter. In this manner you may do any firm fish. 

57. SALMOIT (to Dry).— Ingredients— Salt, 3 or 4 oz. of salt- 

petre, 2 oz. of bay salt, 2 oz. coarse sugar. 

Cut the fish down, take out the inside and roe. Rub the 
whole with common salt after scaling it ; let it hang for 24 
hours to drain. Pound three or four ounces of salt-petre, 
according to the size of the fish, two ounces of bay-salt, and 
two ounces of coarse sugar ; rub these, when mixed well, into 
the salmon, and lay it on a large dish or tray two days, then 
rub it well with common salt, and in 24 hours more it will be 
fit to dry; wipe it well after draining. Hang it either in a 
wood chimney or in a dry place ; keeping it open with two 
small sticks. Dried salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and 
only just warmed through ; egg-sauce and mashed potatoes 
with it ; or it may be boiled, especially the piece next the head. 

58. SALMON (Drisd). — Ingredients— Flakes of salmon, 2 eggs, 

1 pint cream, 2 or 3 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful of flour, mashed 
potatoes. 

Pull some into flakes ; have ready some eggs boiled hard, 
and chopped large ; put both into half a pint of thin cream, 
and two or three ounces of liutter rubbed with a teaspoonful 
of flour; skim it and stii till boiling hot; make a wall of 
mashed potatoes round the inner edge of a dish, and pour the 
above into it. 

59. 5ALM01T (Pried, with Anchovy Saucoi.—lngrfcdients— 

Some thin slices from the tail end of a salmon, anchovy 
sauce, flour, bread-crumbs, eggs, water, a little roux, a little 
cayenne pepper, lard. 

Scrape the scales off" the tail end of a salmon, cut in thin 
slices, dip them in flour, then in two eggs whisked up with 
a tablespoonful of water, and a tablcspoonful of anchovy sauce, 
then dip them in bread crumbs, and fry in boiling lard for eight 
or ten minutes ; dish them up on a napkin in a nice heap, and 
sprinkle a little chopped parsley over them, and serve in a 
sauceboat some sauce. 

60. SALMON (Dressed. Italian Sauce)-— inRredieuts— two 

slices, about 3 inches thick, of good salmon, 2 onions, I car- 
rot, 1 shalot, 2 gherkins, a few preserved mushrooms and a 
few capers, 3 oz. of butter, a little chopped parsley, 1 table- 
spoonful of anchovy sauce, and a pint of good stock, and a 
little roux. 
Cut up two onions and one carrot into thin slices, and lay 
them in the bottom of a baking dish with a little pepper and 
salt am le oz. of butter ; lay the slices of salmon on the top 
of the vciicUbles, cover them with buttered paper, and bake for 



36 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. F.sh. 

thirty-five minutes in a warm oven ; when cooked, serve with 
sauce made as follows: Cut up one shalot very fine, and lightly 
fry in two oz. of butter, throw in a little chopped parsley, two 
gherkins chopped fine, and a few capers and mushrooms cut 
up very fine, and one pint of good stock, a little roux to thicken, 
and one tablespoonful of anchovy sauce aiid a little pepper; 
boil these ingredients together for thirty minutes, lift the salmon 
carefully on to a dish (taking care no onion or carrot h;ing to 
it), pour the bailing sauce over it, aud serve very hot. 

61. FRESH SALMON (to Boll)-— lugiedients— Fresh salmon, 
salt, water. 
This fish needs more boiling, in more water, than any other 
fish. It is not wholesome unless thoroughly done. Make the 
water quite salt ; boil, skim, then put in the salmon. Continue 
to skim. For each half pound allow fifteen minutes. Lobster, 
egg, or drawn butter for sauce. 

02. "WHITINGS (FriCCL)-— Ingredients— Whitings, egg, bread- 
crumbs. 

Dip them in egg and bread-crumbs and fry a clear golden 
brown. Serve on a napkin, with shrimp or lobster sauce in a 
tureen. 

63. LOBSTEHS (to Boil)- — Ingredients — Lobsters, salt water, 

salad oil. 

The heaviest are best. Put them, alive into a kettle of salt- 
ed boiling water, and let theni boil from half an hour 
to three quarters, according to size. Then wipe them, and rub 
the shell with a little salad oil : this will give them a clear red 
color. Crack the large claws without mashing them, and with 
a sharp knife split the body and tail from end to end. 

64. LOBSTERS (Potted)-— Ingredients— Lobsters, mace, white 

pepper, nutmeg and salt, butter. 

Half boil them, pick out the meat, cut it into small pieces, sea- 
son with mace, white pepper, nutmeg and salt, press close 
intoapot, and cover with butter, bake half an hour ; put the 
spawn in. When cold, take the lobster out, aud put it into 
the pots with a little of the butter. Beat the other butter in a 
mortar with some of the spawn ; then mix that colored butter 
with as much as will be sufficient to cover the pots, and strain 
it. Cayenne may be added if approved. 

65. LOBSTERS (Potted as at Quoea'S KotOl)-— ingredients— 

Lobster, mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, lor 2 cloves, 
b'ltter, bay leaves. 

Take out the meat as whole as you can ; split the tail and re- 
move the gut ; if the inside be not watery, add that. Season 
With mate, nutmeg, white pepper, s.aUi and a clove or tvvo in 



t'isit. MRS. Clarke's cookery dook. 39 

the finest powder. Lay a little fin3 butter at the bottom of a 
pan, and the lobster smooth over it, with bay leaves between, 
cover it with butter, and bake gently. When done, pour the 
whole on the bottom of a sieve ; and with a fork lay tlit pieces 
into potting-pots, some of each sort, with the tcasnning about 
it. When cold, pour clarified butter over, but not hot. It will 
be good next day ; or if highly seasoned, and thick covered 
with butter, will keep some time. Potted lobster may be used 
cold, or as a fricassee, with cream sauce : and then it looks 
very nicely, and eats excellently, especially if there is spawn. 

tib. LOBSTEB (to Dross)-— Ingredients — 1 lobster, salt, cayenne, 
mustard, salad oil, and vinegar. 

After mincing it very fine, add salt, cayenne, mustard, salad 
oil, and vinegar, to taste ; mix these well together. 

l>7. LOBSTER CROQUETTES-— Iugvedients—1 lobster, pepper, 
Bait, spices, cayenne, a piece of butter, 1 tablespoonful of 
flour, 1 bunch of parsley, fish stock, 2 eggs, breadcrumbs, 

Mince the flesh of a lobster to the size of small dice, eeason 
with pepper, salt, spices, and as much cayenne as will rest on 
the point ofa trussing needle. Melt a piece of butter in a sauce- 
pan, mix with it a tablespoonful of flour, then the lobster, and 
some chopped parsley ; moisten with a little fish stock until 
the mixture looks like minced veal ; then stir into it oh'the fire 
a couple of yolks of eggs, and put it by to get cold. When 
nearly so, shape it into the foim of corks, egg them, and roll 
them in baked breadcrumbs. After the lapse of an hour, egg 
and breadcrumb them again, taking care to preserve the shape. 
After a little time fry them a light colour in hot lard. 

68. LOBSTER OROQTTETTES-— Ingredients— lobster, pepper, 

salt, powdered mace, bread cruinb3,'2tablespoonfuls of butter, 
egg, biscuit, parsley. 

To the meat of a well-boiled lobster, chopped fine, add pep- 
per, salt, and powdered mace. Mix with this one quarter as 
much bread-crumbs, well rubbed, as you have meat ; make 
into pointed balls, with two tablespoonfuls of butter melted. 
Roll these in beaten egg, then in biscuit powdered fine, and fry 
in butter or very nice sweet lard. Serve dry and hot, and gar- 
nish with crisped parsley. This is a delicious supper dish or 
entree. 

69. PISH PATE-— Ingredients— lib. of cold fish, ^Ib. of butter, 

4oz. of bread crumbs, 1 whole egg, 3 yolks, 21bs. of fresh fish, 
anchovy, sliced truffles, oil, pepper, salt, and spices, 1 glass. 
of rum or Madeira. 

The following is a French receipt for making a fish pdtd. 
Take i lb. of any cold fish you may have left, such as pike,whit- 



38 AfRS. clatike'? cookery book. Fish. 



ing, etc., quite free from bones and skin; pound it in a mortar 
adding half-pound of butter and four ounces ot bread-crumbs 
soaked in milk and dried on the fire ; season with salt and pep- 
per, and then pound the whole till well mixed, adding a whole 
egg, and the yolks of three more. Take two pounds of fresh 
tunny fish, remove the skin and cut it into slices about one 
inch thick and three long, placing on each a thin strip of an- 
chovy and some sliced truffles ; let these soak for some hours 
in oil seasoned with pepper, salt, and different spices. Place 
in a pie dish a layer two inches thick of the pounded fish, then 
above this half the slices of tunny; repeat these two layers, 
and at the top put another layer of pounded fish, and above 
this a thin layer of butter. Then put on the crust, glazing it 
with the yolk of an egg, cook for three or four hours, accord- 
ing to the size of the pie, pouring in when done a glass of rum 
or Madeira through the hole in the crust. Serve cold. The 
pounded fish and bread crumbs will make very nice fish cakes, 
mixed v.ith beaten-up egg, and fried in oil or butter. 

70. ^l.vAB (Hot)-— Ingredients— 1 good sized crab, pepper, salt' 

bread crumbs, milk, cream, or oiled butter, parsley. 

For this, one good-sized crab, or three or four small ones, 
may be used. The meat must be picked from the claws and 
the soft inside from the body ; season with pepper and salt, add 
a small quantity of breadcrumbs, and moisten with milk, or, bet- 
ter still, a few spoonfuls of cream or oiled butter. When well 
mixed, put it into the large shell, strewing fresh breadcrumbs 
over the top, and sprinkling some oiled butter over these ; let 
it remain in the oven just long enough to get hot through and 
to be a nice golden-brown colour. It should be served very hot 
on a napkin garnished with parsley. 

71. OBASS (Boiled).— Ingredients— Crabs, salt water, sweet oil. 
Boil them in salt and water twenty minutes ; take them out, 

break off the claws, wipe the crabs, ihrow away the small 
claws, and crack the large ones and send to table. Rub a 
little sweet oil on the shells. 

72. ORAB (MockDreSSed).— Ingredients— 1 tin of lobster, bread 

crumbs, 4 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream and 1 of liquid 
essence of shrimps, 1 dessertspoonful of made mustard, cay- 
enne, white pepper, vinegar, salt, 1 tablespoon of Parmesan. 
Drain the liquid from a tin of fresh lobster, and divide the 
flesh into small flakes with a couple of forks. Should there be 
any coral amongst it set it aside for garnish. Boil four neiv 
laid eggs for three minutes ( the whites must be like curd ). 
Scoop the whites and yolks from the shell and mix them to- 
gether in a basin with two tablespoonfuls each of thick cream 
and the liquid from the lobster. Add a tablespoonful of grated 



I 



Fish. Mrs. clarke's cookery book. 39 



Parmesan, a tablespoonful of essence of shrimps, a dessert- 
spoonful of made mustard, cayenne, white pepper, vin-^jgar, and 
sail to taste. Stir in the lobster flakes and mix all well together. 
One large, or two or three small, crab shells must be kept 
ready for this. Fill them with the above, cover the opening with 
fine breadcrumbs, and sprinkle it with the coral, or, failing that, 
a few slices of red capsicums. If? hot dish is preferred, place 
the basin containing the lobster, etc., in a saucepan of boiling 
water, and stiruntil it is hot enough, then put it into the shells, 
cover with the breadcrumbs and little pieces of butter. Brown 
these with a hot salamander, sprinkle with the coral and serve 
quickly. Omit the vinegar for this, or use very little. This is 
an excellent imitation of dressed crab, and makes a very use- 
ful luncheon or supper dish to those who live far from a fish 
market. 

73. SOFT CRABS-— Ingredients— Crabs, salt, cayenne, butter. 

Take off the claws, wash, wipe, and open them ; and, after 
removing the spongy part and sand-bag, season in and outside 
with salt and cayenne. Then close them, and fry in fresh 
butter a light brown. Send to table hot. 

7-1. OTSTBRiS (StOTTOd).— Ingredients— oysters, a piece of mace, 
some lemon peel, a few white peppers, cream, butter, and 
flour. 

Open and separate the liquor from them, then wash them 
from the grit ; strain the liquor, and put with the oysters a piece 
of mace and lemon-peel, and a few white peppers. Simmer 
them very gently, and put some cream, and a litle flour and 
butter. Serve with sippets. 

75. OYSTERS (BoUed). 

Let the shells be nicely cleaned first, and serve in them, to 
eat with cold butter. 

76. OYSTERS (Scalloped).— Ingredients— crumbs of bread, 

pepper, salt, nutmeg, a piece of butter. 

Put them with crumbs of bread, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a 
piece of butter, into scallop-shells or saucers, and bake in 
oven, or better still before the fire in a Dutch oven. 

77. OYSTERS (Ereilod).— Ingredients— Large, fat oysters, salt, 

cayenne pepper, biscuit dust or flour, butter. 

Choose large, fat oysters ; wipe them very dry ; sprinkle salt 
and cayenne pepper upon them, and broil upon one of the small 
gridirons sold for that purpose. You can dredge the oyster 
with biscuit-dust or flour, if you wish to have it brown ; and 
some fancy the juices are better kept in this way ; others dis- 
like the crust thus formed. Butter the gridiron well, and let 



40 MRS. CLARKE*S COOKERY BOOK. PlSrt. 

your fire be hot and clear. If the oysters drip, withdraw the 
gridiron for a moment, until the smoke clears away. BroU 
quickly and dish hot, putting a tiny piece of butter, not larger 
than a pea, upon each oyster. 

78. OYSTERS (Priod, to gamlsll Tsollod Fish).— Ingredienta 

— flour, milk, egg.s, .sLasouing, nutmeg, bread crumbs. 

Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs, season it a very little, 
dip the oysters into it, and fry them a fine yellow-brown. A 
little nutmeg should be put into the seasoning, and a few 
crumbs of bread into the flour. 

79. OYSTERS (Stowed).— Ingredients— Liquor from 2 qts. of 

oyst«rs, 1 teacupful of hot water, salt, pepper, 2 tablespoons- . 
ful of butter, 1 cupful of milk. 

Drain the liquor from two quarts of firm, plump oysters ; 
mix with it a small teacupful of hot water, add a little salt and 
pepper, and set over the fire in a saucepan. Let it boil up 
once, put in the oysters, let them boil for five minutes or less 
— not more. When they " ruffle," add two tablespoonsful of 
butter. The instant it is melted and well stirred in, put in a 
large cupful of boiling milk, and take the saucepan from the 
fire. Serve with oyster or cream biscuits, as soon as possible. 
Oysters become tough and tasteless when cooked too much or 
left to stand too long after they are withdrawn from the fire. 

80. OYSTER SAT7SAQES- — Ingredients— l doz. large oysters, 

^ lb. rump steak, a little seasoning of herbs, pepper and salt. 

Chop all fine, and roll them into the form of sausages. 

8L AliTO'ELS 02T B0RSE5ACZ' — Ingredients— Oysters, bacon. 
Trim the beards from as many oysters as may be required, 
wrap each in a very thin shaving of fat, streaky bacon (cold 
boiled bacon is the best) ; run them one after the other on to a 
silver skewer, and hold them over a toast in front of a clear 
fire until the bacon is slightly crisp; serve on the toast imme- 
diately. 

82. OREAM OYSTERS OIT TEE HALF-SEELL.-Ingre- 

dients — Hot water (1 cup), 1 cup of cream, 1 cup of milk, a 
little salt, 2 tablespoonsful of butter, white pepper, 2 table- 
spoonsful of arrowroot, rice flour, or com starch, cold milk. 

Pour into your inner saucepan a cup of hot water, another 
of milk, and one of cream, with a little salt. Set into a kettle 
of hot water until it boils, then stir in two tablespoonsful of 
butter and a little salt, with white pepper. Take from the fire, 
and add two heaped tablespoonsful of arrowroot, rice flour, or 
corn starch, moistened with cold milk. By this time your 
shells should be washed and buttered, and a fine oyster laid 



tisH. MRS. Clarke's cookery book. 41 

within each. Of course, it is selon les regies to use oyster 
shells for this purpose ; but you will find scollop-shells more 
roonky and manageable, because more regular in shape. 
Range these closely in a large baking-pan, propping them with 
clean pebbles or fragments of shell, if they do not seem in- 
clined to retain their contents. Stir the cream very hard, and 
fill up each shell with a spoon, taking care not to spill any in 
the pan. Bake five or six minutes in a hot oven after the 
shells become warm. Serve on the shell. Some substitute 
oyster liquor for the water in the mixture, and use -"H milk in- 
stead of cream. 

83. OTSTSR FATTZSS- — Ingredients — Oysters, paste. 

Make a rich paste, roll it out half an inch thick, then turn a 
teacup down on the paste, and, with the point of a sharp pen- 
knife, mark the paste lightly round the edge of the cup. Then, 
with the point of the knife, make a circle about half an inch 
from the edge ; cut this circle half way through. Place them 
on tins, and bake in a quick oven. Remove the centre, and 
fill with oysters, seasoned and warmed over the fire. 

84. SHAD AlTD HBRRIlTa (to Pot).— Ingredients— A shad, 

salt, cayenne, allspice, cloves, 1 stick of cinnamon, cider 
vinegar. 

Clean the shad, take off the head, tail, and all the fins ; then 
cut it in pieces, wash and wipe it dry. Season each piece well 
with salt and cayenne. Lay them in layers in a stone jar ; 
place between each layer some allspice, cloves, and stick of 
cinnamon. Cover with good cider vinegar ; tie thick paper 
over the jar ; place them in a moderate oven for three or four 
hours. 

85. RED HBIIRI1TC35 (to Dress). — Ingredients — Herrings, 

amall beer, butter. 

Choose those that are large and moist, cut them open, and 
pour some boiling small beer over them to soak half an hour ; 
drain them dry ; make them hot through before the fire, then 
rub some cold butter over them and serve. Egg-sauce, or but- 
tered eggs and mashed potatoes, should be sent up with them. 

86. BASED EEREIlTaS OH SFHATS-— Ingredients— Her- 

rings, allspice, salt, black pepper, 1 onion and a few bay 
leaves, vinegar. 

Wash and drain without wiping them ; season with all- 
spice in fine powder, salt, and a few whole cloves ; lay them in 
a pan with plenty of black pepper, an onion, and a few bay- 
leaves. Add half vinegar and half small beer, enough to 
cover them. Put paper over the pan, and bake in a slow oven. 
If you like, throw saltpetre over them the night before, to 
make them look red. Gut, but do not open them. 



4-2 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. 1'"ish, 



87. BLOATER TOAST. — Ingredients— 2 or 3 bloaters, butter, 

hot buttered toast, black pepper. 

When bloaters are in season, split open two or three, rub 
them over with fresh butter, and make them hot through in the 
frying pan ; serve them on fingers of hot buttered toast, with a 
slight sprinkling of black pepper over each. The heads and tails 
should be removed before cooking. 

88. PERCH AlTD TSITOE. 

Put them into cold water, boil them carefully and serve with 
melted butter ani soy. Perch is a most delicate fish. They 
may be either fried or stewed, but in stewing they do not pre- 
serve so good a flavor. 

89. TROTJT AND GRATL11T& (to Pry.) 

Scale, gut, and wash well ; then dry them, and lay them 
separately on a board before the fire, after dusting some flour 
over them. Fry them of a fine color with fresh dripping; 
serve with crimp parsley, and plain butter. Perch and tench 
may be done the same way. 

90. TROTJT a-la-&ElTEV01SB.— Ingredients— pepper, salt, a 

few cloves, crust of French bread, bunch of parsley and 
thyme, flour, butter. 

Clean the fish very well ; put it upon your stew-pan, adding 
half Champagne and half Moselle, or Rhenish, or sherry wine. 
Season it with pepper, salt, an onion, a few cloves stuck in it, 
and a small bunch of parsley and thyme ; put in it a crust of 
French bread ; set it on a quick fire. When the fish is done 
take the bread out, bruise it, and then thicken the sauce ; add 
flour and a little butter, and let it boil up. See that your 
sauce is of a proper thickness. Lay your fish on the dish, and 
pour the sauce over it. Serve it with sliced lemon and fried 
bread. 

91. PERCH AND TROTJT (to Broil). 

Split them down the back, notch them two or three times 
across, and broil over a clear fire ; turn them frequently, and 
baste with well-salted butter and powered thyme. 

92. lAACSSREL. 

Boil, and serve with butter and fennel. 

To broil them, split, and sprinkle with herbs, pepper, and 
salt ; or stuff with the same, crumbs, and chopped fennel. 

Potted: clean, season, and bake them in a pan with spice, 
bay-leaves and some butter ; when cold, lay them in a potting- 
pot, and cover with butter. 

Pickled: boil them, then boil some of the liquor, a few pep- 
pers, bay-leaves, and some vinegar ; when cold, pour it over 
them. 



Fish. Mrs. Clarke's cookkry hook. 43 

93. MAOSEREL (Pickled, called Oaveach). —Ingredients- 

Six mackerel, 1 oz. of pepper, 2 nutiucys, a little mace, 4 
cloves, 1 handful of salt. 

Clean and divide them ; then cut each side into three, or 
leaving them undivided, cut each fish into five or six pieces. 
To six large mackerel, take near an ounce of pepper, two nut- 
megs, a little mace, four cloves, and a handful of salt, all in 
the finest powder ; mix, and making holes in each piece of fish, 
thrust the seasoning into them, rub each piece with some of 
it ; then fry them brown in oil : let thena stand till cold, then 
put them into a stone-jar, and cover with vinegar ; if to keep 
long, pour oil on the top. Thus done, they may be preserved 
for months. 

94. MAOKEREL (Scalloped)' — ingredients — Mackerel, ^pint of 

shrimps, milk, corntlour, soy, walnut, mushroom catchup, 'es- 
sence of anchovies, grated lemon peel, nutmeg, cayenne, white 
pepper, salt, lemon juice, brea^ crumbs, capers, vinegar. 

Boil as many mackerel as you require, and, while they are 
still hot, remove from them all bones and skin and divide the 
flesh into small flakes, shell half a pint of shrimps (for two 
mackerel), and mix them with the fish ; simmer the shells and 
mackerel trimmings for twenty minutes, with just sufficient 
water to cover them. Strain the liquid into a fresh saucepan, 
and add to it enough new milk to make your quantity of sauce. 
Thicken this to the consistency of thick cream with corn flour, 
and flavor it delicately with essence of anchovies, soy, walnut 
and mushroom catchup, grated lemon peel and nutmeg, cayenne, 
white pepper, and salt if required ; stir to this sufficient lemon 
juice to give an agreeable acid, and mix well with the fish. 
Put this mixture into china or silver scallop shells, or on a 
flat dish, and cover thickly with fine breadcrumbs ; moisten 
these slightly with liquid butter and brown in a quick oven or 
before a clear fire. Scald a few capers in their own vinegar, and 
just before serving the scallop drain and sprinkle them over it. 
The remains of any cold fish may be served like this with great 
advantage : also tinned salmon, etc. Cod, fresh haddock, and 
soles are best flavored with oysters instead of shrimps. 

95. MULLET (Baked).— Ingredients— 1 mullet, pepper and salt, 

eschalots and mushrooms, 1 wineglassful of bherry. 

Scale and trim the fish, and put it into a frying pan, season 
with pepper and salt, cover with chopped eschalots and mush- 
room, moisten with a wineglass of sherry, and bake it over a 
slow fire for twenty-minutes, if a medium-sized fish ; keep well 
basting in the liquor, and turn now and then ; dish up very 
carefully. Make a sauce with half a glass of sherry, ateaspoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, with twelve drops of anchovy sauce. 



44 MRS. CLARKE'S COOKERY feOOK. FiSrt. 

Reduce the gravy to one-half by boiling, strain into the sauce, 
and pour over the fish. 

Ou. EED MT7LLET (called tlie Sea-'Woodcock). 

Clean, but leave the inside, fold in oiled paper, and gently 
bake in a small dish. Make a sauce of the liquor that cornea 
from the fish, with a piece of butter, a little flour, a little 
essence of anchovy, and a glass of sherry. Give it a boil ; and 
seive in a boat, and the fish in the paper cases. 

97. MULLET "WITH TOHATOES.-Ingrodients-i doz. red 
muUot, poppor, salt, aud chopped parsley, 5 or U tablespoona- 
lul of tomato sauce. 

Butter a baking dish plentifully, lay on it side by side half a 
dozen red mullet, sprinkle them with peppnr, salt, and chopped 
parsley, then add about five or six tablespoonsful of tomato 
sauce, cover the whole with a sheet of well-oiled paper, and 
bake for about half an hour. 

08. SOLES. 

If boiled, they must be served with great care to look per- 
fectly white, and should be well covered with parsley. If fried, 
dip in egg, and cover them with fine crumbs of bread ; set on 
a frying pan that is just large enough, and put into it a large 
quantity of fresh lard or dripping, iDoil it, and immediately slip 
the fish into it ; do them of a fine brown. Soles that have 
been fried eat very well cold with oil, vinegar, salt and mustard. 

Uy. SOLES- — Ingredients — 2 or 3 soles, salt. 

Take two or three soles, divide them from the back-bone, 
and take off the head, fins, and tail. Sprinkle the inside with 
salt, roll them up tightly from the tail end upwards, and fasten 
with small skewers. If large or middling, put half a fish in 
each roll. 

100. FILLETS OP SOLES A L'lNDlENNB.-Ingredients- 

3 soles filleted, 1 pint of good Btook, a little roux, the juice 
of 2 lemons, pepper and salt, a little chopped parsley, aud a 
little hot Indian pickle. 

Wash the fillets in cold water, dry them with a clean cloth, 
and sprinkle some chopped parsley and pepper and salt over 
them, and roll like corks ; place them in a tin baking dish with 
a little butter, and squeeze the juice of two lemons over them, 
and bake them in a hot oven for ten minutes, and dish them in 
a circle, and pour over them a sauce made as follows : One 
pint of good stock thickened with a little flour, reduce to half 
a pint, occasionally stirring to prevent its burning ; add a 
tittle pepper and salt and a little vinegar, and about eight 
pieces of Indian pickle chopped fine. 



Fish. mrs. clarke's cookery yy^n. +5 

101. SOZiSS- — Ingredients — Butter, 1 teanpoonful of ol'opp*'! 

onions, 1 wineglass of white wine, 4 teaspoonsful of otoiik, 2 
oz. of fine breadciumba, parsley, salt, pepper, 2oz. of buttgr, 
juice of 1 lemon. 

Put in a tin dish a little butter to grease it, add a small tea- 
spoonful of finely chopped onions and a wineglassful of white 
wine. Then put the sole in the pan, add four tablespoonsful 
of stock, and sprinkle 2 oz. of fine bread-crumbs over it, and 
some parsley finely chopped. Add a little salt and pepper, and 
cover the dish with 2 oz. of butter, stuck over in small pieces. 
Add the juice of a lemon. Put the dish in a slow oven or on a 
slow fire for half an hour, and serve it on the dish in which it 
has been cooked. 

102. SOLSS AU (^ZIATUT-— Ingredients— Soles, a little stock, 

1 lemon, a little anchovy, pepper and salt, bread-crumbs, a 
small piece of butter, and a little vinegar. 

Place a sole in an oval tin baking-dish, lay on the top a piece 
of butter, and round it the juice of half a lemon and a little an- 
chovy sauce, a tea-spoonful of vinegar and a little pepper, and 
then bake it for 15 minutes in a hot oven ; when nearly cooked 
sprinkle some bread-crumbs over it, and color th« top with a 
salamander. Serve in the tin it was baked in with a little 
chopped parsley on the top. 

103. STVAaEOIT (to Roast). 

Put it on a lark-spit, then tie it on a large spit ; baste it 
constantly with butter ; and serve with a good gravy, an an- 
chovy, a squeeze of Seville orange or lemon, and a glass of 
sherry. 

104. STURQEON (Preah). — Ingredients— Sturgeon^ egg, bread- 

crumbs, parsley, pepper, salt. 

Cut slices, rub egg over them, then sprinkle with 
crumbs of bread, parsley, pepper, salt : fold them in paper, 
and broil gently. Sauce ; butter, anchovy, and soy. 

106. TTJRB®T EN MAYONNAISE.— Ingredients— Some fil- 
lets of turbot, oil, tarragon vinegar, salt and pepper, eggs, 
cucumbera, anchovies, tarragon leaves, beets, capers, aspic 
jelly. 

Cut some fillets of cooked turbot into moderate-sized round or 
oblong pieces, carefully taking ofif the skin and extracting all 
bones. Placi thjtse pieces of fish into a bowl, with a dressing 
made of oil, tarragon vinegar, salt and pepper As soon as the fish 
is well-flavored with this seasoning, arrange the pieces round a 
dish like a crown. Place a circle of chopped hard-boiled eggs, 
tiny pickled cucumbers, anchovies, tarragon leaves, beetroot, 
and capers round Wm dish, and ihcu arrange a wall uf aspic 



46 uxs. Clarke's cookery book. Fish. 

itlley round the edge of the dish. Fill up the centre of the 
crown df fish with good mayonnaise sauce. 

106. TT7RB0T (PiUet of. -^tli Dutch Sauce)-— ingredients— 

2 fillets of turbot, ^Ib. of butter, 1 egg, a little flour, half a 
pint of milk, a little vinegar, some horse-radish, pepper, and 
salt. 
Place the fillets of turbot cut up in nice-sized pieces in a 
baking-dish, sprinkle some pepper and salt over them and 
about two oz. of butter, and bake for half an hour in a hot oven, 
cover them with a piece of buttered paper if the oven is two 
fierce : when cooked send to table with a sauce made as fol- 
lows : Place the milk in a stew-pan with a little pepper and 
salt, a little scraped horse-radish, and a wine-glassful of vin- 
egar, boil them well together, knead two oz. of butter in flour, 
stir it in the boiling milk, and well mix it in, then add one egg, 
and just bring to Uie boil, stirring all the time, add more sea- 
soning if required, and serve very hot. 

107. TVZIBOT AV aBATZN (a nice Sisli for Luncheon) ■-In- 

gredients — cold cooked turbot, anchovy sauce, a little stock, 
cayenne pepper, 2 oz. of butter, a little flour, and some bread 
crumbs. , 

Place a piece of butter, about two oz., in a stewpan and melt 
it on the fire, add a little flour, then a little anchovy sauce and 
a little cayenne pepper, stir these well together and then drop 
in the sauce any cold turbot you may have left from dinner the 
evening before, place some of the turbot out of the sauce in 
large pattie pans, and cover it with bread-crumbs and bake it 
in a hot oven; if the top does not get brown enough heat a sal- 
amander, and finish off that way. Serve the pattie pans up on 
a napkin or paper. 

108. SMIELTS (to Pry). — ingredients — Smelts, egg, bread 

crumbs, lanl. 

They should not be washed more than is necessary to clean 
them. Dry them in a cloth, then lightly flour them, but shake 
it off. Dip them into plenty of egg, then into bread crumbs, 
grated fine, and plunge them into a good pan of hoili7ig lard ; 
let them continue gently boiling, and a few minutes will make 
them a bri,^ht yellow-brown. Take care not to take off the 
light roughness of the crumbs, or their beauty will be lost. 

109. EEL FIE' — Ingredients— 1 or 2 eels, seasoning, gravy, gela- 

tine. 
Cut up one or two esls, and stew gently until tender in a little 
good brown gravy, seasonedto taste, when done enough, strain 
the gravy through muslin, add gelatine and pour over the fish. 
A few sprigs of parsley placed about the mould will much iiU' 
prove the appearance, 



Fish. mrs. clarke's cookery book. 47 

110. SELS (to Soil). — Ingredients — Eels, saltwater. 

Clean, cut off the heads, and dry them. Joint them into 
suitable lengths, or coil them on your fish plate ; boil thevu in 
salted water. Use drawn jutter and parsley for sauce. 

111. WHITEBAIT.— Ingredients— Whitebait, flour, lard, salt. 
Drain the fish from the water, lay it on a cloth, sprinkle 

flour on it, double up the cloth, and shake it about from side 
to side until the fish is well covered with flour. Transfer it to 
a frying basket ; shake it gently to get rid of the superfluous 
flour. Have a panful of boiling lard, try it with a small piece 
of bread ; if the fat hisses sharply, and the bread colors at 
once, the fat is hot enough ; plunge the basket into it, and 
never cease shaking until the whitebait is cooked (two or three 
minutes). Turn the tish out on a napkin in front of the fire, 
and feprinkle it freely with salt at the time of serving. It is a 
good plan, when practicable, to have two pans of boiling fat, 
and when the whitebait has been cooked in the one, to take it 
out, drain it, and plunge it for a second or two in the other 
pan, the fat in which should be boiling hot. 

112. HADDOOS WITH TOMATOES. -Ingredients-l dried 

haddock, 1 onion, 1 oz. butter, 1 ripe tomato, pepper, parsley. 

Soak a dried haddock in plenty of cold water for half a day, 
drain off the water and replace it with boiling water ; when the 
haddock has been in this for two hours, take it out, care- 
fully remove all the bones and skin, and break the meat into 
flakes ; slice a moderate sized onion, put it into a saucepan 
with one ounce of butter ; as soon as the onion is soft, add one 
ripe tomato, cut into slices ; after a couple of minutes add the 
flesh of the haddock, a sprinkling of pepper and some finely 
minced parsley ; shake the saucepan on the fire, until the 
contents are thoroughly heated, then draw it aside, to be kept 
warm till the time for serving, 

113. FISH OROQIJETTES- — Ingredients — Remnants of turbot, 

brill, haddock, or salmon, butter, pinch of flour, some mi'lK, 
pepper, salt, nutmeg, parsley. 

Take some remnants of boiled turbot, brill, haddock, or sal- 
mon, pick out the flesh carefully, and mince it, not too finely ; 
melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, add a small pinch of flour 
and some hot milk ; stir on the fire until the mixture thickens 
then put in pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg, together 
with some finely-chopped parsley, and, lastly, the minced fish. 
As soon as the whole is quite hot, turn it out on a dish to get 
col J, then fashion and finish tlic croquettes as in the first 
recipe. 



48 MRS. CLARKE'S COOKERY BOOK. FiSH. 

114. HALIBUT (Boiled). — Ingredients— Halibut, salted water. 
Allow the fish to lie in cold salt water for an hour. Wipe 

dry in a clean cloth and score the skin, then put into the hfh 
kettle with cold salted water snfficient to cover it. Let it come 
slowly to the boil, and allow from half to three-quarters of an 
hour for a piece weighing four or five lbs. When ready drain, 
and serve with egg sauce. 

115. HALIBTJT (Baked).— Ingredients— Halibut, a little but- 

ter, salt and water, a tablespoonf ul of walnut catchup, a 
dessert spoonful of Worcesterbhire sauce, the juice of a 
lemon, a little brown flour. 

A piece of halibut weighing five or six lbs, lay in salt and water 
for two hrs. Wipe in a clean cloth and score the skin. Have 
the oven tolerably hot, and bake about an hour. Melt a little 
butter in hot water and baste the fish occasionally. It should 
be of a fine brown color. Any gravy that is in the dripping 
pan mix with a little boiling water, then stir in the walnut 
catchup and Worcestershire sauce, the juice of the lemon, and 
thicken with the brown flour (the flour should be mixed with 
a little cold water previously), give one boil and serve in sauco- 
"joat. 

116. BAZilBXJT STBd&2- —Ingredients- 2 eggs, some brittle 

crackers, oil or lard, salt. 

Wash. Wipe the steaks in a clean cloth and sprinkle with 
!■% little salt. Dip them into beaten egg, then into crushed 
crackers (pound the crackers until they are as fine as powder), 
Mnd fry in boiling oil or lard. 

xl7. STTTFFIira for PZZB. EASDOOS and SICALL OOD.- 

Ingredients — equal parts of fat bacon and beef suet, some 
fresh butter, parsley, thyme, savory, 1 onion, a fow leaves 
of marjoram, 1 or 2 anchovies, salt, pepper, 1 nutmeg*, orumba 
and egg. 

Take equal parts of fat bacon, beef-suet, and freah butter, 
some parsley, thyme, and savory ; a little onion, and a few 
leaves of scented marjoram shred fine ; an anchovy or two ; a 
little salt and nutmeg, and some pepper. Oysters will be an 
improvement with or without anchovies ; add crumbs, and an 
•it^g to bixJ. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 



OBSERVATIONS. 

The following is translated from a German cookery 
book : — 

" In Vienna, especially in the hotels, young chickens are 
killed immediately before they are wanted, plucked and 
cleaned as quickly as possible before the flesh becomes 
cold, otherwise it would be tough. They are cut up into 
joints and sprinkled with salt ; each piece must then be 
dipped into flour, and then into egg and grated bread 
crumbs, and fried immediately ; or they may be dipped 
first into butter, and then into bread crumbs mixed with a 
little flour. This method admits of no delay in performance 
if the whole flavor of the meat is to be pref> Tved and the 
gravy kept in ; but in private houses the chickens are gene- 
rally allowed to hang a day or two, to ensure their being 
tender," 

In choosing ducks, be careful to securv^ those with plump 
bellies and thick and yellowish feet ; and to ensure them 
being tender, it is advisable to let them hang a day or two. 

In choosing turkeys, the hen turkey is preferable for boil- 
ing, on account of their whiteness and tenderness. 

Partridges in perfection will have dark colored bills and 
yellowish legs ; the time they should be kept entirely depends 
upon the taste of those for whom they are intended, as 
what some people would consider delicious, to others would 
be disgusting and offensive. Young hares may be known 
by their smooth and sharp claws, and the cleft in the lip not 
much spread. It is preferable to hang without being 
paunched, but should it be previously emptied, wipe the in- 
side every day and sprinkle over it a little ginger and 
pepper. 

Rabbits when young have smooth and sharp claws.' 

In selecting a goose, choose one with a clean white skin, 
plump breast and yellow feet. Charcoal is considered as 
an admirable prevention for decomposilion. 

D 49 



50 MRS, Clarke's cookery book. Game. 



118. OaiOZBN" PATTIES.— Ingredients— Cold chicken, milk, 

coi-nflour, pepper, salt and butter, pufF paste. 

Mince cold chicken, and stir it into a white sauce, made of 
milk thickened with cornflour and flavored with pepper, salt 
and butter ; line small patty pans with puff paste, bake first, 
then fill with the mixture, and set in a hot oven for a few min- 
utes to brown. 

119. FOWL (to BoU). 

For boiling, choose those that are not black-legged. Pick 
tlicm nicely, singe, wash and truss them. Flour them, and put 
tiicm into boiling water. Serve with parsley and butter; 
oyster, lemon, liver, or celery sauce. 

120. PO^TXS (Roast). — ingredients— Butter, floar, gravy, lemon 

juice, sausages, bacon. 

Fowls require constant attention in dredging and basting, 
and the last ten minutes let butter rolled in flour be stuck over 
them in little bits, and allowed to melt without basting. The 
gravy for fowls should always be thickened, and slightly 
flavored with lemon-juice Sausages or rolled bacon should be 
served on the same dish, and white mashed potatoes should 
always be handed with poultry, 

121. OHIOKEN OUTLETS (\7itll RlcO)..-Ingredients-A tea- 

cupful of rice, some good stock, 1 onion, salt and pepper, 
Bome cold ham and chicken, egg, bread-crumbs. 

Boil a teacupful of rice in some good stock, and pound it in 
a mortar with an onion that has been cooked in butter, with 
salt and pepper. Pound separately in equal portions cold ham 
and chicken, form this into cutlets ; cover them with egg and 
bread-crumbs and fry. Serve with a sharp sauce. 

122. OHIOSEN A LA JARDINIERE.— Ingredients-2 yo.ng 

chickens, butter, 1 onion, some savory herbs, salt and suffi- 
cient water, carrots, turnips, onions, beef stock, mushrooms, 
'2 cabbages, some heads of asparagus, pepper, sugar. 

Take two young chickens and put them in a saucepan with 
some butter, a large onion chopped up, some savory herba, some 
salt and sufficient water ; the chickens should be dropped in 
the mixture when it is boiling, and left in the saucepan until 
the liquid is reduced by half ; cut up in good shapes some car- 
rots and turnips, some whole onions skinned and blanched, and 
put them in a saucepan with some butter, some beef stock, 
some mushrooms, two very young cabbages and some heads of 
asparagus ; season with salt, pepper, and a little sugar; cook 
very gently, and fifteen minutes before serving add a piece of 
butter kneaded with flour. Serve with the vegetables well ar- 
runtrcd round the dish. 



Poultry, mrs. ct.arke's cookkry book, gi 

123. OHZOZBIT ZlZSSOZiSiS' — Ingredients — Some remnants of 

fowl, ham and tongue, butter, a pinch of flour, white pep- 
per, salt, nutmeg, parsley, eggs, a few drops of lemon-juice, 
flour, water, 3 pinches of sugar. 

Mince very finely some remnants of fowls, free from skin> 
add an equal quantity of ham or tongue, as well as a small 
quantity of truffles, all finely minced; toss the whole in a sauce- 
pan with a piece of butter, mixed with a pinch of flour ; add 
white pepper, salt, and nutmeg to taste, as well as a little 
minced parsley ; stir in off the fire the yoliis of one or two 
eggs beaten up with a few drops of lemon-juice, and lay the 
mixture on a plate to cool. Make a paste with some flour, a 
little water, two eggs, a pinch of salt, and two or three of 
sugar ; roll it out to the thickness of a penny piece, stamp it 
out in round pieces three inches in diameter ; put a piece of 
the above mince on each, then fold them up, fastening the 
edges by moistening them with water. Trim the rissoles neatly 
with a fluted cutter, dip each one in beaten-up egg, and fry a 
golden color in hot lard. 

124. OHIOSEIT (JolliOd). — Ingredients— A chicken, 1 oz. of but- 

ter, pepper aad salt, J packet of gelatine. 

Boil the chicken as in recipe 119 until the water is reduced to 
a pint; pick the meat from the bones in fair sized pieces, re- 
moving all gristle, skin, and bone. Skim the fat from the 
liquor, add an ounce of butter, a little pepper and salt, and 
half a packet of gelatine. Put the cut-up chicken into a 
mould, wet with cold water; when the gelatine has dissolved 
pour the liquor hot over the chicken. Turnout when cold. 

125. OHIOKEN LOAF-— Ingredients— A chicken, 2oz. of butter, 

pepper, salt, egg. 

Boil a chicken in as little water as possible until the meat 
can easily be picked from the bones ; cut it up finely, then 
put it back into the saucepan with two ounces of butter, and a 
seasoning of pepper and salt. Grease a square china mould 
and cover the bottom with slices of hard-boiled egg ; pour in 
the chicken, place a weight on it, and set aside to cool, when 
it will turn out. 

126. OHIOSBIT CROQUETTES —Ingredients— Breast of a roast 

fowl, tongues, truffles, butter, flour, stock, parsley, pepper, 
salt, nutmeg, eggs, lemon-juice, parsley. 

Take of the breast of a roast fowl two parts, of , boiled 
tongue one part, and of truffles one part ; mince all these 
very finely, and mix them together. Melt a piece of butter In 
a saucepan, stir a little flour into it, then put i* the above mix- 
ture, and moisten with a small quantity of stock ; add some 



52 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Game. 

finely minced parsley, pepper, salt, and nutmeg to taste. 
Stir it on the fire for a few minutes, then stir in, off the fire, 
the yolks of one or two eggs beaten up with the juice of a 
lemon and strained. Spread out this mince (which should be 
pretty stiff) on a marble slab, and when it is nearly cold 
fashion it into small portions in the shape of balls or of corks. 
Dip each in a beaten-up egg, and then roll it in very fine baked 
bread-crumbs ; repeat this operation after the lapse of an 
hour, and after a similar inters al fry the croquettes in hot lard 
to a golden color. Serve o'.i a napkin^ wiih plenty of fried 
parsley. 

127. OHIOSBITS (to Puir. 

Take off the skin ; and pull the flesh off the bone of a cold 
fowl, in as large pieces a? you can : dredge it with flour, and 
fry it of a nice brov.n in butter. Drain the butter from it ; 
and then simmer t'.ie flesh in a good gravy well-seasoned, and 
thickened with a 1 ttle flour and butter. Add the juice of '-alf 
a lemon. 

128. OBIOZEirS (to Full). 

Cut off the legs, and the whole bark of a dressed chicken ; 
if under-done the better. Pull all the white part into little 
flakes free from skin ; toss it up with a little cream thickened 
with a piece of butter mixed with flour, half a blade of mace 
in powder, white pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon. Cut off 
the neck end of the chicken ; and broil the back and sidesmen 
in one piece, and the two legs seasoned. Put the hash in the 
middle, with the back on it ; and the two legs at the end. 

123. GALANTIITB OP PO'WX-— Ingredients -l fowl, 1 lb. of 

veal, i lb. of fat bacon, spice and sweet herbs, pepper, salt, 

^ lb. of boiled tongue, ^ doz. truflles, 1 calf's foot, 2 or .'J 

onions, 2 carrots, 1 clove of garlic, 1 bundle of sweet herbs, 

cloves, whole pepper, mace. 

Take a fowl, bone and trim it ; take one lb. of veal, and half 

a pound of fat bacon, pound together in a mortar, season with 

powdered spice and sweet herbs, pepper and salt to taste, then 

pass the mixtuie through a wire sieve. Cut half a pound of 

boiled tongue in pieces about an inch square, cut half-a-dozen 

truffles each into three or four pieces, lay thu prepared fowl, 

skin downwards, on the table, sprinkle with pepper, salt, and 

powdered spices ; lay the pounded meat, the truffles, and the 

tongue on it, then roll up neatly as a roly-poly pudding, and 

tie it up in a cloth (tightly) ; put all the trimmings of the fowl 

into a saucepan, laige enough to hold the galantine; add a 

calf's foot cut in pieces, the trimmings of the bacon (mind they 

are perfectly sweet), two or three onions, two carrots, cut in 



Poultry. mrs. clarke's cookery book. 53 

pieces, a clove of garlic, a bundle of sw^et herbs, cloves, whole 
pepper, mace, and salt, according to taste ; fill up with such a. 
quantity of water (cold) as will leave room for the galantine tO' 
be put in, set the saucepan on the fire to boil for two hours, 
strain, and when the liquor boile put in the galantine, and let 
it boil two or two and a half hours, then hft it out, and when 
cold it is ready for eating. 

130. BBAIZED FOWL (TTitll MacarOll).— ingredients— A pair 

of fowls, 2 onions, butter, 2 slices of bacon, 2 carrots, pepper, 
■alt, a bundle of sweet herbs, stock, 1 lb. of ribbon macaroni, 
I5c. bottle of French tomato sauce, 1 oz. of butter, Parmesan 
cheese. 

Trim a pair of fowls as for boiling, putting a piece of butter 
and an onion inside each ; lay in a saucepan over two slices of 
bacon with an onion and two carrots cut in pieces ; add pepper 
and salt to taste, and a bundle of sweet herbs; moisten with a 
little stock, put a piece of buttered paper over the fowls, and 
set to braize very slowly for an hour, frequently basting with 
their own liquor. Throw one lb. of ribbon macaroni into fast- 
boihng salt water ; when done (twenty minutes) drain off the 
water, put them into a saucepan with the contents of a fifteen 
cent bottle of French tomato sauce, and one oz. of butter previ(»us- 
ly melted ; toss on the fire a few minutes, adding plenty of Par- 
mesan cheese. Place the chickens on a dish with the maca- 
roni round them and serve. 

131. BXIOZLID OaiOSElT (-with Mushrooms).— Ingredients 

— 1 fowl, liver, gizzard, butter, pepper and salt, stewed 
mushrooms. 

Cut some fowls down the back, truss legs and wings as for 
boiling, with the liver and gizzard under the wing ; baste them 
well with butter, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and broil them 
slowly over a clear fire, turning frequently, and basting well 
till cooked ; serve with stewed mushrooms. 

132. PTTRBB OF C^AliCE' — Ingredients— Carcases of roast game, 

i an onion, 1 carrot, 1 bay leaf, a small piece of celery, 2 
cloves, a little piece of mace, some whole pepper, pinch of 
salt, stock, ^Ib. lean beef. 

Take any carcases of roast game, say three snipe or two 
partridges, cut them up into convenient pieces, and pack them 
mto a saucepan with half an onion, a carrot, and bay leaf, a 
small piece of celery, a couple of cloves, a little piece of mace, 
some whole pepper, and a large pinch of salt ; pour in just 
enough stock to cover the contents ; let the whole boil a couple 
ot hours, strain the liquor and put it by ; take half a pound of 
lean beef, chop it up and pound it in a mortar with all the flesh 
that can be picked out of the pieces of game, then pass the 



54 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Game. 

whole through a sieve, moisteninjj now and then with some of 
the liquor. Lastly, heat the purde, correct the flavoring if 
necessary, stir in a piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut, 
serve with fried sippets round and poached eggs on the top. 

133. WILD ST70S (Roast)-— Ingredients — Duck, bread-crumbs, 

carrot, pepper and salt, sace and onions, currant jelly, 1 

pinch of cayenne, browned flour. 
Before roasting, parboil with a small carrot peeled and put 
inside. This will absorb the fishy taste. If you have no carrot 
at hand, an onion will have the same effect, but unless you 
mean to use onion in the stuffing a carrot is preferable. 
When parboiled, throw away the carrot or onion, lay in fresh 
water for half an hour, stuff with bread-crumbs seasoned with 
peoper, salt, sage, and an onion, and roast till brovTn and ten- 
der, basting half the time with butter and water, then with 
drippings. Add to the gravy when you have taken up the 
ducks, one tablespoonful of currant jelly and a pinch of cay- 
enne. Thicken with browned flour and serve in a tureen. 

134. QUAIL FIE- — Ingredients — Puff paste, salt pork or ham, 

eggs, butter, pepper, 1 bunch of parsley, juice of 1 lemon. 

Clean and dress the birds, loosen the joints, but do not 
divide them, put on the stove to simmer, while you prepare 
puff paste. Cover a deep dish with it, then lay in the bottom 
some shreds of oork or ham, then a layer of hard boiled eggs, 
a little butter and pepper. Take the biids from the fire, 
sprinkle with pepper and minced parsley. Squeeze lemon 
juice upon them, and upon the breasts of the birds a few pieces 
of butter rolled in flour. Cover with slices of egg, then shred 
some ham and lay upon this. Pour in a little of the gravy in 
which the quails were parboiled, and put on the lid. Leave a 
hole in the middle and bake a little over one hour. 

135. QT7AILS (Boasted, -CTlth Sam). 

Prepare the birds as you would grouse, but cover the ham or 
pork with a sheet of paper, having secured the meat with 
pack thread. Stitch the papers on, and keep well basted with 
butter and water. Roast three quarters of an hour. Remove 
papers and meat before dishing, and brown quickly. This is a 
favorite way of cyooking quails. 

136. HABBIT FIE- — Ingredients — 2 rabbits, J lb. of fat pork, 4 
eggs, pepper, butter, a little powdered mace, a few drops of 
lemon juice, puff paste. 

Cut a pair of rabbits into ten pieces, soak in salt and watef 
half an hour and simmer until half done, in enough water 
to cover them. Cut a quarter of a pound of pork into slicesi 
and boil four eggs hard. Lay some pieces of pork in 



Poultry. Mrs. clarke's cookery dook. 55 

the bottom of the dish, the next a layer of rabbit. Upon this 
spread slices ot boiled egg and pepper and butter. Sprinkle, 
moreover, with a little powdered mace, a few drops of lemon 
juice upon each piece of meat. Proceed in this manner until 
the dish is full, the top layer being pork. Pour in water in 
which the rabbit was boiled ; when you have salted it and 
added a few lumps of butter rolled in flour, cover with puff 
paste, make a hole in the middle and bake for one hour. 
Cover with paper if itfshould boil too fast. 

137. BABBIT (StOWel). — Ingredients— 1 rabbit, salted water, 

dripping or butter, flour, six onions. 

Cut a rabbit in pieces, wash it in cold water, a little salted- 
Prepare in a stewpan some flour, and clarified dripping or 
butter ; stir it until it browns. Then put in the pieces of rabbit, 
and keep stirring and turning, until they are tinged with a little 
color ; then add six onions, peeled, but not cut up. Serve all 
together in a deep dish. 

138. A Q-ERliIAlT DISH- — Ingredients— A tender fowl, salt, 

pepper, mace, flour, yolk of 1 egg, hot lard, liver, gizzard, 
parsley. 

Quarter a tender fowl, season the pieces with pepper and 
salt and mace ; flour, and then dip them in the beaten-up yolk 
of an egg ; fry a golden color in hot lard ; dish them, garnished 
with the liver and gizzard fried separately, and with fried pars- 
ley. Serve either with a salad garnished with hard-boiled eggs 
or tomato sauce. 

139. Q'ZBLETS (to StOTT)-— Ingredient*— Salt and pepper, but- 

ter, 1 cup of cream, 1 teaapc^onful of flour. 

Do them as directed for giblet-pie (under the head pies) ; 
season them with salt and pepper, and a very small piece of 
mace. Before serving give them one boil with a cup of cream, 
and a piece of butter rubbed in a teaspoonful of flour. 

140. FIGEOITS. 

May be dressed in so many ways, that they are very useful. 
The good flavor of them depends very much on their being 
cropped and drawn as soon as killed. No other bird requires 
so much washing. Pigeons left from dinner the day before 
may be stewed or made into a pie ; in either case care must be 
taken not to overdo them, which will make them stringy. 
They need only be heated up in gravy, made ready, and force- 
meat-balls may be fried and added, instead of putting a stuff"- 
ing into them. If for a pie, let beef-steaks be stewed in a 
little water, and put cold under them, and cover each pigeon 
with a piece of fat bacon, to keep them moist. Season as usual, 
and put eggs. 



%6 MRS. CLARKE'S COOKERY BOOK. GaME. 

141. FZ&BOITS (toBroll).—Iiigr«<iientii— Pigeons, pepper and 

salt, itawed or picklad miuLrooms, butter. 

After cleaning, split the backs, pepper and salt them, and 
broil them very nicely; pour over them either stewed or 
pickled mushrooms in melted butter, and serve as hot as pos- 
sible. 

142. FIftEOlTS (Zloast). 

Should be stuffed with parsley, either cut or whole ; and sea- 
soned within. Serve with parsley and butter. Peas or aspar- 
agus should be dressed to eat with them. 

143. TirSJSIfiY (to Boast). 

The sinews of the legs should be drawn, whichever way it is 
dressed. The head should be twisted under the wing ; and 
in drawing it, take care not to tear the liver, nor let the gall 
touch it. Put a stuffing of sausage meat ; or, if sausages are 
to be served in the dish, a bread stuffing. As this makes a 
large addition to the size of the bird, observe that the heat of 
the fire is constantly to that part ; for the breast is often not 
done enough. A little strip of paper should be put on the 
bone to hinder it from scorching while the other parts roast. 
Baste well and froth it up. Serve with gravy in the dish, and 
plenty of bread-sauce in a sauce-tureen. Add a few crumbs, 
and a beaten egg to the stuffing of sausage-meat. 

144. ROAST TVHS&T- — Ingredients— Plain forcemeat, 1 tur- 

key, bacon, buttur, salt, pork sausages, gravy. 

Pluck, singe, draw, wipe thoroughly, and truss a fine turkey, 
stuff it with plain forcemeat, pack it up in some thin slices of 
fiat bacon, and over that a sheet of buttered paper ; put in oven, 
basting frequently with butter. A quarter of an hour before it 
is done, remove the paper and slices of bacon. Sprinkle with 
salt just before serving. Garnish with pork sausages, and serve 
with a tureen of gravy. Time of roasting, two or three hours, 
according to size. 

145. SXIAISED TXJBiKBT-— Ingredients— 1 turkey, truffle, 

chestnut (stuffing, bacon, 2 carrots, 2 onions, sweet herbs, 
parsley, bay leaf, 1 clove of garlic, whole pepper and salt, 
stock, 1 glass of sherry. 

Truss the turkey as for boiling; stuff it with truffle and chest- 
nut stuffing. Line the bottom of a braising pan with slices of 
bacon, lay the turkey on these, and place more slices of bacon 
on the top of it. Put in two carrots and two onions cut in sHces, 
some sweet herbs, parsley, bay leaf, a clove of garlic and whole 
pepper and salt to taste ; moisten with some stock and a 
tumblerful of sherry. Lay a round of buttered paper on the top, 
put on the lid, and braise with a moderate fire for about four 



Poultry. mrs. clakke's cookkry book. 57 

hours; then serve with the gravy strained and freed from 

excess of fat. 

146. TRTJPPLB AND OHESTNTTT STXrFPING. -Ingredient! 

— 1 lb. fat bacoM, '2 sliallota, 1 lb. clieatnuts, i lb. truillea, 
pepper, salt, spices, thyme, marjoram. 

Mince one lb. of fat bacon and a couple of shallots, give them 
a turn on the fire in a saucepan; then put in one lb. of chestnuts, 
boiled and peeled, and one-half pound of truflks, both cut up 
in moderate-sized pieces; add pepper, salt, and spices to taste ; 
also a little powdered thyme and marjoram. Give the mix- 
ture another turn or two on the fire, and it is ready. 

147. TBVFFLE SAUOE. 

Rub a saucepan with a shallot, melt a piece of butter in it, 
add a very small quantity of flour and the trimmings of the 
truffles chopped coarsely ; moisten with some good stock free 
from fat, and a little white wine, season with pepper, salt, and 
the least piece of nutmeg. Let the sauce simmer about ten min- 
utes, and it is ready. 

148. TT7RKBT (PuUod). 

Divide the meat of the breast by pulling instead of cutting; 
then warm it in a spoonful or two of white gravy, and a little 
cream, grated nutmeg, salt, and a little flour and butter ; don't 
boil it. The leg should be seasoned, scored, and broiled, and 
put into the dish with the above round it. Cold chicken does 
as well. 

149. QAME (Ohaudfreid).— Ingredients— 2 birds, a piece of 

b*m or bacon, 1 onion, 1 carrot, 1 oz. of butter, 1 bundle of 
■weet herbs, spices, pepper and salt ; 1 cupful of white wine, 
1 pint of stock, butter, flour, 1 cupful of aspic jelly, 2 par- 
tridges. 

Remove the legs, breast, and wings from two uncooked 
birds, pound the carcases in a mortar, put them into a sauce- 
pan with a piece of ham or bacon chopped up, an onion, a carrot, 
an ounce of butter, a bundle of sweet herbs, and spices, pepper 
and salt to taste, put the saucepan on the fire, and when the con- 
tents are quite hot add a small cupful of white wine (sherry 
or marsala), and a few minutes after add rather more than a 
pint of good ordinary stock ; let the whole gently simmer over 
an hour, then strain, and carefully remove all fat ; mix a little 
butter and flour in a saucepan, and stir them on the fire till the 
mixture browns, then gradually add the liquor and a cupful 
of unclarified aspic jelly. If at hand, a cupful of well-made 
Spanish sauce may be used instead of the thickening of butter 
and flour. Roast two partridges, and when cold divide them 
into joints ; trim each joint neatly, removing the skin from it ; 



58 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. GANie. 

dip them in the above sauce, made hot for the purpose, and if, 
when cooled, the pieces of partridges are not well covered over 
with it, repeat the operation. Arrange the pieces pyramidally 
on a dish, with a border of chopped-up aspic jelly round them. 
The wings and breasts cut from the birds used to make the 
sauco can be served in various ways in the form of fillets, and 
the legs can also be utilized, either to make a stew, or for the 
stock pot. 

350. Q-AMB (Aspic)-— Ingredients— Butter, pepper, salt, breasts 
of a brace of birds, forcemeat. 

Cut the breasts of a brace of birds into fillets, cook them 
in the oven, smothered in butter, in a tin with pepper and 
salt, and put them between two plates under a weight to get 
cold. With the rest of the flesh of the birds make a forcemeat 
as follows : pound it in a mortar with an equal quantity of lean 
veal ; add as much butter as there is game meat, and as much 
breadcrumbs soaked in stock and squeezed dry ; mix the whole 
thoroughly well in the mortar, then pass the mixture through a 
sieve ; return it to the mortar ; work into it one tablespoonful 
of Spanish sauce or chaudfroid sauce, pepper and salt, 
a little powdered sweet herbs or spices, then the yolks of 
two and the white of one egg. Put this composition into a 
plain buttered mould, steam it for half an hour, and turn it out. 
When cold cut in slices, and cut the slices into rounds all of a 
shape ; cut all the fillets to the same size ; cut also some ready 
cooked truffles into slices ; set some white of egg in a jam pot 
placed in a saucepan full of boiling water, turn it out, cut it in 
slices, and from them cut pieces all of a size. Pour a little 
well-flavored aspic jelly into a mould ; when it begins to set 
arrange the above materials in it, filling up with jelly until the 
mould is full, and when quite set turn it out. 

151. POEOEMEAT, for PuUel Turkey. 

Take one part of finely-shredded suet and two parts of bread- 
crumbs, season with pepper, salt, powdered spices, sweet herbs, 
and finely minced parsley ; mix all well together, then add as 
many eggs as will bind the ingredients together into a stiff 
paste. 

162. GRAVY, for PuUod Turkey. 

Mince an onion finely, fry it in butter to a dark brown, then 
add three quarters of a pint of good stock, pepper and salt 
to taste, a small piece of ham minced small, a sprig of thyme, 
one of parsley, and a little Worcester sauce ; let the whole 
boil five or ten minutes, put it by till wanted, then strain it into 
a sauce boat. 



Poultry. mrs. clarke's cookery eook. 59 

153. CHESTNUT SAUCE, for Boast Turkey. 

Remove the outer skin from a number of chestnuts (carefully 
excluding any that may be the least tainted), put them to boil 
in salted water with a handful of coriander seeds" '>nd a couple 
of bay leaves. When thoroughly done, remove tne outer skin, 
and pound the chestnuts in a mortar, adding a little slock (free 
from fat) now and then. When a smooth paste is obtained, 
fry an onion in butter to a light color, add the chestnut paste 
and sufficient stock to get the sauce of the desired consist- 
ency ; add salt and pepper to taste, pass through a hair sieve, 
and serve. 

154. ROAST HAUNCS OP VENISON. -Ingredients -Butter, 

salt, flour and wator. 

Trim the joint neatly, wipe it vvell with a cloth, rub it over 
with butter, and sprinkle it with salt ; then wrap it up in a 
sheet of buttered kitchen paper. Make a paste with flour and 
water, roll it out to the thickness of about half an inch, wrap 
the joint in this, and close up all the openings carefully by 
wetting the edges of the sheet of paste ; lastly, pack up the 
haunch into a sheet of well buttered p^per, put in the oven for 
about three hours, basting occasionally, then remove the paste 
and paper coverings, baste the haunch plentifully with butter, 
and when nearly done dredge some flour over it and some salt. 
Serve on a hot water dish. 

165. BREAST OP VENISON (Stowed).— Ingredients— l onion, 
1 carrot, a bundle of sweet herbs, a fev/^ cloves, pepper and 
Bait, common stock, claret, butter, 1 table ipoonful of flour, 
1 squeeze of lemon. 

Remove the bones and skin, roll it up and tie it with a string 
in the shape of a round of beef, put it into a stewpan with an 
onion and carrot, sliced, a bundle of sweet herbs, a few cloves 
and pepper, and salt to taste, add common stock and claret in 
equal parts, sufficient to come up to the piece of venison, covp'. 
up the stewpan and let the contents simmer gently for about 
three hours, turning the meat occasionally; when done strain 
as much of the liquor as will be wanted for sauce, into a sauce- 
pan containing a piece of butter, previously melted and well 
mixed with a tablespoonful of flour, stir the sauce on the fire 
until it thickens, then add a squeeze of lemon ; pour it over the 
meat in a dish and serve. 

156. BASHED VENISON. — Ingredients— Some haunch or neck 
of venison, venison gravy, ^ pt. of claret, stock, 4 challots, 4 
cloves, 1 teaspuonful of niusliroom catchup, butter, 1 table* 
spoonful of flour, pepper aud salt. 

Cut some cold haunch or neck of venison into thm slices, 
trimming off all outside parts. Put any venison gravy that 



AMIS. CLARKE'S COOKERY BOOK. GaME. 



may be left, the bones and trimmings, half pt. of claret, and as 
much stock into a saucepan with four challots finely chopped, 
four cloves, and a teaspoonful of mushroom catchup ; let all 
this simmer slowly for an hour or two, then strain into a sauce- 
pan in which a good piece of butter has been amalgamated 
with a tablespoonful of flour, add pepper and salt to taste, and 
when the sauce boils take it off the fire, and let it get cold, 
then put in it the slices of venison, and let the whole slowly 
get hot by the side of the fire. It should take a couple of hours. 
Serve garnished with tippets of bread fried in butter and serve 
red currant jelly with it. 

157. "^ILD DTTOSS (Stowed).— Pepper, salt, flour, butter, gravy 
made of th« giblets, necks, and some pieces of veal, 1 challot, 
1 buuch of swftct herbs, J cup of cream or rich inilk in which 
au egg has been beaten, brown flour, one tablespoonful of 
wine, juice of half a lemon. 

Prepare to parboil for ten minutes. Lay in cold water for 
half an hour. Cut into joints, pepper, salt and flour them. 
Fry a light brown in some butter. Put them in a stewpan and 
cover with gravy made from the giblets, necks, and some pieces 
of veal. Add a minced challot, bunch of sweet herbs, salt and 
pepper. Cover and stew for half an hour or until tender, take 
out the duck, skim the gravy and strain; add half a cup of 
cream, or some rich milk in which an egg has been beaten, 
thicken with brown flour, add one tablespoonful of wine, and the 
juice of half a lemon beaten in slowly, or the cream may curdle. 
Boil up and pour over the ducks and serve. 

158. ■wooDOoois:. 

These birds are very delicious, and may be either roasted or 
boiled. 



&?,» 



MEATS. 



OBSERVATIONS ON MEAT. 

In purchasing beef secure meat of a deep red color, 
with the fat mingled with the lean, giving it a mottled ap- 
pearance. The fat will be firm, and the color resembling 
grass butter. The smaller the breed, so much sweeter the 
meat. It will be better for eating if kept a few days. 
Veal, lamb and pork (being white meat), will not keep more 
than a day or two. 

Seof- — For roasting, the sirloin and rib pieces are the 
best. The chief object is to prevent the escape of the 
juices, and if you are roasting in an oven, it is a very good 
plan to throw a cup of boiling water over the meat when 
first put in the oven. This will prevent the escape of the 
juices for a while, and will thoroughly warm through the 
meat. 

luSluttoXl- — Choose this by the fineness of its grain, 
good color, and firm white fat. It is not the better for 
being young ; if of a good breed and well fed, it is better 
for age ; but this only holds with wether-mutton : the flesh 
of the ewe is paler, and the texture finer. Ram-mutton is 
very strongly flavored ; the flesh is of a deep red, and the fat 
is spongy. 

liaml}. — Observe the neck of a fore-quarter ; if the vein 
is bluish, it is fresh ; if it has a green or yellow caste it is 
stale. In the hind quarter, if there is a faint smell under 
the kidney, and the knuckle is limp, the meat is stale. If 
the eyes are sunken, the head is not fresh. Grass-lamb comes 
in season in April or May, and continues till August. 
House- Lamb may be l.ad in great towns almost all the 
year, but is in highest perfection in December and January. 

Fork- — Pinch the lean, and if young, it will break. If 
the rind is tough, thick, and cannot easily be impressed by 
the finger, it is old. A thin rind is a merit in all pork. 
When fresh, the flesh will be smooth and cool ; if clammy 

6x 



6a MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Beef. 

it is tainted. What is called measley pork is very unwhole- 
some, and may be known by the fat being full of kernels, 
which in good pork is never the case. Pork fed at still- 
houses does not answer for curing any way, the fat being 
spongy. Uairy-fed pork is the best. A sucking pig, to be 
eaten in perfection, should not be more than three weeks 
old, and should be dressed the same day it is killed. 

Voal- — Veal should be perfectly white ; if purchasing 
the loin, the fat enveloping the kidney should be white and 
firm. Veal will not keep so long as an older meat, es- 
pecially in hot or wet weather. Choose small and fat veal. 
It is in season from March to August. 

TripO- — This requires to be well cooked and nicely 
served, and then it is both light and nutritious, and can 
often be eaten by invalids, or persons having a delicate di- 
gestion. Choose a nice white piece ; wash it well, and put 
into a stew-pan with sufficient milk and water in equal parts 
to cover it ; let it simmer gently for about half an hour 
after it has boiled up. Serve with white sauce, omitting 
the parsley, and garnish the dish with slices of 
beetroot. Onion sauce may be substituted if preferred, or 
it may be served simply with a little of the liquor in which 
it has been cooked poured over it, and some plainly boiled 
Spanish onions handed round in a vegetable dish. 



BEEF. 



159. SFZOED SEEF* — Ingredients— 8 or 9 lbs. of beef, fat, J oz. of 
salt prunella, ^ oz. of saltpetre, 2 oz. of pounded spices, ^ lb. 
garlic, i lb. of moist sugar. 

Take 8 or 9 lbs. of beef, with a good piece of fat, mix well 
together ^ oz. salt prunella, ^ oz. saltpetre, about two oz. 
pounded spices — mace, cinnamon, cloves, allspice, nutmeg, ^ 
lb. garlic chopped very fine, and \ lb. moist sugar ; rub this 
mixture well into the beef, and let it remain in the pickle a 
week, turning and rubbing it every day ; tie up the beef, put it 
into cold water, boil it up slowly, skim well, and simmer for 
two or three hours ; put it under heavy weij^lits. Trim, and 
serve cold. 



Beef. mrs. Clarke's cookery book. 63 



160. BBBF-STBAS P'JDDI1T&.— Ingredients— ^ lb. of flour, 6 

oz. of beef suet, 2^ lbs. of rump or beef steak, pepper and 
salt, 1 doz. oysters, J pint of stock. 

Chop the suet finely, and rub it into the flour with your 
hands, sprinkhnga little salt, then mix with water to a smooth 
paste ; roll the paste to the eighth of an inch ; line a quart 
pudding basin with the paste ; cut the steak into thin slices, 
flour them, and season with pepper and salt ; put the oysters 
and the liquor that is with them into a saucepan and bring it 
to the point of boiling ; then remove from the fire, and strain 
the liquor into a basin ; then cut off the beards and the hard 
parts, leaving only the soft, roll the slices of steak, filling the 
basin with the meat and oysters ; pour in the stock and liquor 
from the oysters. Cover with paste and boil three hours. 

N.B. Be sure the water is boiling before putting the pud- 
ding in. 

161. FILLETS OP BEEP C^th Olives). -Ingredients- A 

piece of rump steak, pepper, salt, olives, onions, flour, stock, 
sauce. 

Take a piece of rump steak, cut it into slices three-eighths 
of an inch thick, and trim them into shape. Melt plenty of 
butter in a baking-tin, lay the fillets of beef in this, and let 
them stand in a warm place for an hour or so ; then sprinkle 
them with pepper and salt, and fry them in some very hot 
butter, turning them to let both sides take color. Stone a 
quantity of olives, and parboil them. Fry some onions a brown 
color in butter, add a little flour, and, when that is colored, as 
much stock as you want sauce, pepper, salt, and spices to taste. 
Let the sauce boil, then strain it, add the olives, and serve 
when quite hot, with the fillets in a circle round them. 

162. CmBNADlNS OP BEEP-- fngredients— Rump steak, lard, 

bacon fat, rich stock or gravy, onions, turnips, butter, flour, 
milk, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. 

Cut some rump steak in slices a little more than half an inch 
thick, trim them all to the same size in the shape of cutlets, 
and lard them thickly on one side with fine lardoons of bacon 
fat. Lay them out, the larded side uppermost, into a flat pan, 
and put into it as much highly-flavored rich stock or gravy as 
will come up to the gienadins without covering them. Cover 
the pan, and place it in the oven to braise gently for an hour. 
Then remove the cover, baste the grenadins with the gravy, 
and let them remain uncoversd in the oven till the larding has 
taken color; they are then ready. Take equal quantities of 
carrots and turnips cut into the shape of olives. Boil all these 
vegetables in salted water, then melt a piece of butter in a 
saucepan, add a tablespoonful of flour, stir in sufficient milk to 



64 MiiS. Clarke's cookery book. Dkrk. 



make a sance, add pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. 
Put all the vegetables into this sauce, of which there should be 
just enough to hold them together ; toss them gently in it till 
quite hot. Dress them in the middle of a dish, round them 
dispose the grenadins in a circle, and, having removed the 
superfluous fat from their gravy, put this round the grenadins, 
and serve. 

163. BEEFSTEAS PIE— Ingredients — Forcemeat, 2 oz. of fat 

bacon, 2 oz. of bread-crumbs, parsley, thyme, a small onion, 
mushrooms, seasoning forforcemeat, salt, pepper and nutmeg, 
2 eggs, a tender rumpsteak, shalot, gravy. 

Make some forcemeat with two oz. of fat bacon, two oz. of bread* 
crumbs, a little chopped parsley, thyme, a small onion, and 
some mushrooms ; add seasoning of salt, pepper and nutmeg, 
pound in a mortar, moistening with the yolks of two eggs. 
Take a tender romp steak or the under cut of a sirloin of beef, 
cut it in thin slices, season with salt, pepper, ard a little shalot. 
Roll each slice like a sausige with some forcemeat inside, 
border a pie dish, put in the beef and forcemeat, fill it up with 
good gravy, flavored with Harvey sauce. Cover with puff 
paste ; bake in a moderate oven. Make a hole in the top, and 
add some reduced gravy. 

164. riLLETS OF BEEF (a la OhateauTariand)-- ingredients 

— A piece of sirloin of beef, pepper, salt, oil. 
Take a piece of the undercut of the sirloin of beef, trim off 
the fat neatly, and the skin next to it ; cut it across the grain 
into slices ii^-in. thick, sprinkle them with pepper, dip them in 
oil, and broil over a clear fire, sprmkle with salt, and serve very 
hot in a dish garnished with potatoes saiitees au beurre. For 
potatoes saiitees au tetirre see receipt m " Vegetables." 

165. STEWED BEEF-— Ingredients— 7 or 8 lbs. of fresh silver 

beef, bacon, pepper, spices and sweet herbs, onions, carrots, 
bay leaves, salt and pepper, 1 pint of common claret, \ pint 
of common stock. 

Take a piece of fresh silver of beef (ylb, or 81b.) ; with a sharp 
knife make five or six incisions through it. Cut as many squai e 
pieces of bacon, fat and lean, long enough to go right through 
from one side of the piece of meat to the other. Roll each 
piece of bacon in a mixture of powdered pepper, spices, and 
sweet herbs, and insert one into each incision ; tie up the meat 
carefully, line the bottom of a stewpan with slices of fat baron, 
put the meat on this with some onions ai.d carrots cut in slices, 
some sweet herbs, a couple of bay leaves, parsley, whole 
pepper, and salt to taste ; add a pint of common claret, and 
half that quantity of stock ; set the whole to stew gently for 
some hours, turning the meat occasionally. At the time of 



Beef. mrs. clarke's cookery book. 65 

serving strain off the gravy, skim it well of fat, remove the string 
from the meat, pour the gravy over it, and garnish with cauli- 
flower sprouts. 

166. BEEP A-LA-lflODB— Ingredienta— 7 or 8 lbs. of the thick 

shank of beef, a little fat bacon, a teacupful of vinegar, all- 
epice, black pepper and 2 cloves, 1 bunch of savory herbs, a 
little parsley, 3 carrots, 3 onions, 1 turnip and a head of 
celery, 1 quart of water, 1 glass of port wine. 

Make holes in the beef large enough to put the bacon in ; 
cut the bacon into long slices about an inch thick ; dip in vin- 
egar, then in the above seasoning. (The herbs and spices must 
be finely mixed.) Having filled the holes in the beef with 
bacon, rub th' "^rmer over with the remaining seasoning and 
bind up w" ape ; slice and fry the onions a light brown; 
cut the vegetables into small pieces; have ready your stew- 
pan into which put the beef with the vegetables, vinegar and 
water; simmer .y/^w/y for five hours. When ready to serve, 
dish the beef, remove the tape, take off every particle of fat 
from the gravy, and add the port wine, just let it come to a boil 
and pour over the meat and serve. 

167. OOniT BEEP-— Ingredients— 4 gallons of fresh water, ^ lb. 

of coarse browu sugar, 2 oz. of saltpetre, 7 lbs. of common 
salt. 

Put four gallons of fresh water, | lb. of coarse brown sugar, 
2 oz. saltpetre, 7 lb. of common salt, into a boiler ; remove the 
scum as it rises, and, when well boiled, leave it to get cold. Put 
in the meat in the pickle, lay a cloth over it, and press the 
meat down with bricks or any weight. 

108 BEEP CAKE (Cold moat cookery)-— Ingredients— to each 
pound of cold roast meat allow ^ lb. of bacon or ham, a little 
pepper and salt, 1 bunch of minced savoury iierbs, 2 eggs. 

Take your meat underdone and mince very finely, add the 
bacon, which must also be well minced ; mix together, stir in 
the herbs and bind with 2 eggs; make into square cakes about 
i inch thick; fry in hot dripping, drain on blotting paper, and 
serve with gravy poured round. 

169. BEEP (Cold laeat cookery). — ingredients— about 2 lbs. of 
cold roast beef, 1 large onion, 1 large carrot, 1 turnip, 1 burrch 
of savoury herbs, salt and pepper to taste. 4 tablespoonfulsof 
ale, i pint of gravy, a crust of mashed potatoes. 

Cut the beef into slices allowing a little fat, put a layer of 
this at bottom of pie dish, slice vegetables and sprinkle a layer 
of them upon the meat ; pound the herbs, strew a little over 
the meat with pepper and salt and proceed in this manner, 
until the ingredients are used; pour in gravy and ale. If this 



66 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Beef. 



should not be approved, water can be substituted ; cover with 
crust of mashed potatoes. 

Note.— Parboil vegetables before adding them ti- meat, and 
the liquor in which they are boiled can be used in tlie place of 
gravy if there is none at hand. 

170. STTSBLEAITS SQT7EAS (Ooll meat cookery)-— ^ngi^o- 

dients — A few thin slices of cold boiled beef, a little butter, 
small cabbage, I slioed onion, pepper and salt to taste. 

Fry the beef gently in the butter, place them on a flat dish, 
and cover with fried greens. Savoys can be used. Boil until 
tender, press in cullender, mince and then put in frying pan 
with butter and sliced onion and a little salt and pepper. 

171. SEEF COLLOFS- — Ingredients— 2J lbs, of rump steak, Jib 

of butter, 1 pint of gravy *or water, salt and peppci , 
challot minced finely, 1 pickled walnut, a teaspoouful of 
capers. 

Cut thin slices of steak and divide into pieces about two 
inches long and dredge with flour ; put buiter into frying 
pan and when quite hot add the meat and pour upon them the 
gravy or water ; allow them to fry for three minutes, add a 
little more butter, put in seasoning and other ingredients and 
allow the whole to simmer for ten minutes. Serve on hot 
dish. 

172. BEEF SAtTSAQ-ES. — Ingredients — To every lb. of suet 

allow 2 lbs. of lean beef, seasoning to taste, a little mixed 

spice. 
Chop the suet finely, taking care that there is no skin with 
it, add pepper, salt, and spices ; mix well together, form 
into flat cakes and fry brown. 

173. ROAST BULLOCK'S HEART.— Ingredients- 1 bullock'* 

heart, J lb. suet, 6 oz. of bread crumbs, J pint of milk, 1 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 1 dessertspoonful of chopped 
mixed herbs, J lb. of dripping or butter, 1 pint of gravy or 
beef-tea. For the sauce — one small onion, a dessertspoonful 
of flour, salt and pepper, butter the size of an egg, a large 
spoonful of mushroom catchup. 

Wash the heart in salt water, taking care to remove all the 
blood; wash in a second water and dry with a clean cloth; 
be careful to dry it thoroughly ; chop the suet as finely as 
possible, mix with some bread-crumbs the suet, parsley, herbs, 
salt and pepper ; lastly put in the milk, then proceed to fill 
all the cavities of the heart with the stuffing ; take a piece of 
paper, grease it well with butter or drippmg, place this over 
the cavities and tie it on tightly with string ; put one oz. of 
dripping into the pan, and baste the heart occasionally ; when 
the gravy boils, cut up the onion, sprinkling with pepper and 



Beef. mrs. clarke's cookery book. 67 

salt, and add to the gravy ; allow it to sitw gently until about 
five minutes before the heart is done; skim occasionally; 
when done strain the liquor ; into another saucepan put the 
butter, and allow it to melt a minute or two ; then add the 
flour and mix smoothly together ; then pour in slowly the 
liquor, stirring until it boils and thickens. Then dish up, re- 
move paper, and add to the sauce the mushroom catchup. 
Immediately pour this sauce round the heart and serve. 

174. A FOLISS DISH-— Ingredients— About 2 lbs. of rump 

steak cut thickly, some bread-crumbs, butter and salt, 1 
onion. 

Chop the onion as finely as possible ; make deep incisions 
in the beef, taking care not to go through ; fill the incisions 
with the bread, etc. ; roll steak, put in stewpan, adding a little 
butter; allow to simmer about two and a half hours. Serve 
with its own gravy thickened and flavored with catchup or 
sauce. 

175. BEEF OLIVES- — Ingredients— Some steaks weighing about 

J lb. , a little white pepper and salt, forcemeat made with 
the fat and lean of veal, a small piece of lean ham or bacon, 
a bunch of parsley, about J lb. of breadcrumbs, 2 eggs. 

Cut some steaks, flatten them with a roller, dredge them 
with a small quantity of white pepper and salt, have some 
forcemeat made with the fat and lean of veal mixed together, 
a small piece of lean ham or bacon, parsley, with a few bread- 
crunabs, all beaten in a mortar and mixed with the egg ; lay a 
little over each steak, and roll it up tightly, fastening with a 
skewer ; dip them in the yolk of an egg, then in crumbs of 
bread, and fry them of a pale brown ; dish them with brown 
sauce seasoned with caj'cnne. 

176. BBEPSTBAS (Stuffed)-— Ingredients— About 2 lbs. of 

beefsteak, about 6 oz. of bread crumbs, savory herbs, needle 
and thread. 

Take the steak an inch thick ; make a stuffing of bread* 
herbs, etc., and spread it over the steak ; roll it up, and with 
a needle and coarse thread sew it together. Lay it in an iron 
pot on one or two wooden skewers, and put in water just suffi- 
cient to cover it ; let it stew slowly for two hours ; longer if 
the beef is tough ; serve it in a dish with the gravy turned over 
it. To be carved crosswise, in slices, through beef and stuffing. 

177. BEEP OMELET.— Ingredients— 3 lbs. of beefsteak,^ of alb. 

of suet, salt aud pepper, a little sage, 3 eg^' , G Boston 
crackers. 

Three pounds of beefsteak, three-fourths of a pound of suet, 
chopped fine ; salt, pepper, and a little sage, three eggs, six 
Bogton crackers rolled ; make into a roll and buke. 



68 MRS. Clarke's cookery booic Beef, 

178. BEEP {BralZ0d)---Ingi'e'3ients— 1 cupful of stale bread, 

pepper and salt, a tablespoonful of oniou, 2 tablespoonfuls of 

dripping, 1 tablespoonful of flour. 
Fuy a piece of the flank that gives a strip about three times 
as long as it is wide, so that it can be rolled up easily. Trim 
off any tough, outer skin which may seem too hard to cook, 
wipe the meat all over with a damp towel, and lay it fiat on the 
table with the outside down ; season it highly with salt and 
pepper ; make a stuffing by soaking a cupful of stale bread in 
cold water until it is soft, and then squeeze it in a towel to 
free it from the water ; season it highly with salt and pepper, 
mix with a tablespoonful of onion, and spread it over the beef, 
then roll up the beef without displacing the stuffing, and tie it 
tightly with cord; lettAvo tablespoonfuls of drippings or bacon 
fat get hot in the bottom of a saucepan just large enough to 
contain the beef, then brown the beef in the drippings, over a 
hot fire ; when it is brown dust over it a tablespoonful of flour, 
turning the beef about until the flour is quite brown, and then 
cover the meat with boiling water, and season the gravy thus 
made with pepper and salt ; next put on the cover of the sauce- 
pan, and if it does not fit steam-tight, seal it with a thick paste 
of flour and water, and set it where its contents will cook slowly 
for three hours. At the expiration of that length of time the 
meat will probably be tender ; the strings can then be removed, 
and the beef served with the gravy in which it was cooked. 

179. BEEF (SteTTed.)-— Ingi'cdients— 1 tablespoonful of butter, 

2 sliced onions, 12 whole cloves, allspice, ^ tcaspoonful of 
salt, J teaspoonful of black pepper, 1 pint of cold water, 2 or 

3 lbs of tender beef, a little flour, a few sprigs of sweet basil. 
In a stew-pan place a large tablespoonful of butter, in which 

fry until quite brown two sliced onions adding, while cooking, 
twelve whole cloves ; ditto allspice ; half a teaspoonful of salt, 
and half that quantity of black pepper; take from the fire 
pour in a pint of cold water, wherein lay two or three pounds 
of tender lean beef cut in small, thick pieces; cover closely, 
and let all stew gently two hours, adding, just before serving, 
a little flour thickening. A few sprigs of sweet basil is an 
improvement. 

ISO. HUNTER'S BEEP.— Ingredients— To a round of beef that 
weighs 2.5 lbs, take .3 ounces of saltpetre, ? oz of the coarsest 
sugar, 1 oz. of cloves, 1 nutmeg, ^ an oz. of allspice, 3 hand- 
fuls of common sa^t, all in the finest powder. 

The beef should hang two or three days ; then rub the above 
well into it, and turn and nib it every day for two or three 
weeks. The bone must be taken out at first. When to be 
dressed, dip it into cold water, to take oft the loose spice, bind 
it up tightly with tape, and put it in a pan with a teacupful of 



IJeep. MRS. Clarke's cookery book. 6g 



water at the bottom ; cover the top of the meat with shred suet, 
and the pan with a brown crust and paper, and bake it five 
or six hours ; when cold, take off the paste and tape. The 
meat should be cut with a very sharp knife, to prevent waste. 

181. BAHED OZ TOITQ-TJE-— Ingredients— 2 eggs, a few cloves, 

6 OZ. of bread-crumbs, ^Ib. of butter, Jjt pt. of good gravy, 
a glass of wine, red currant jelly. 

Soak the tongue well in lukewarm water for about twelve 
hours, scrape and trim it, stick it over with cloves (about 
twenty-four), and boil slowly according to size for two or three 
hours. Then take it up and brush it over with the yolks of 
two eggs and sprinkle it with bread-crumbs (6oz.), Next bake 
it to a good brown, beating it constantly with a quarter of a 
pound of butter. Put it on a dish, and pour round it half a 
pint of good gravy with a glass of wine. Serve with red 
currant jelly. 

182. BRAIZED STEAS- — Ingredients— Slices of bacon, steak, 

au OZ. of butter, carrot, turnip, onion, a bay leaf, a blade of 
mace, small piece of lemon peel, ^ pt. of good brown stock or 
a teaspoonful of extract of beef. 

For this the meat should be well hung and tender, and about 
an inch in thickness. First cut off all the fat and lay it aside, 
tiien lard the steak by drawing tiny slices of bacon through it. 
Put loz. of butter in a frying-pan and fry the steak in this for 
about a minute, this is to keep in the juices of the meat ; 
then put into a stewpan two or three small slices of 
each of the following : carrot, turnip, and onion, together with 
a bay leaf, a blade of mace, and a small piece of lemon peel ; 
add half a pint of good brown stock (this is the quantity for 
about Jib. of meat), and stew gently three-quarters of an hour. 
If no stock is at hand, a teaspoonful of extract of beef dissolv- 
ed in water will answer the purpose. Before dishing up, cut 
up about the quarter of a small carrot, ditto turnip, into small 
strips ; boi! them til! tender, then drain and place on the steak 
when serving. The gravy in which the meat is cooked should 
be carefully strained over it, and for garniture, besides the 
vegetables already mentioned, it should have the fat, which 
must be cut into small dice, and fried for the purpose, 

183. BIFSTEOK SATTTB- — Ingredients— Steak, pepper and flour, 

butter, cold water, or stock (iavored with mushroom catchup, 
a teacupf ul of chopped parsley, a dessertspoonful of .lemon 
juice. 

Have your steak cut not more than an inch thick, and beat 
it thoroughly with a meat bat until the fibre is quite divided 
Sprinkle it with pepper, and flour it thickly on both sides. Melt 
butter in a deep frying or sautd pan to thinly cover tl e bottom 



7© MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Bekf. 



of it, and when it is quite hot put in the steak, and just scald it 
on both sides for a second or two, and then pour in from time 
to time a Uttie cold water or stock well-flavored witli mush- 
room catchup. The steak will take from twenty to twenty-tive 
minutes to cook, according to whether it is liked with the 
gravy in it or not, and during that time it must be constantly 
attended to, turned every two or three seconds, and kept all 
the time just gently simmering. If all these directions are 
carefully followed, you will have a steak as tender as it should 
be when well stewed, with the additional advantages of re- 
taining its own juices and being quickly prepared. For a steak 
of 2lbs. boil a teacupful of chopped parsley to look quite green, 
and mix with it quickly l^oz. of butter and a dessertspoonful 
of lemon juice. Arrange this in little heaps upon the steak, 
which should be served on a hot water dish. Pour some of the 
gravy round it, and send the remainder to table in a tureen. 
This is a useful dish for ''parlor cookery," being easily pre- 
pared on an ordinary spirit stove. Instead of the parsley, 
button mushrooms stewed in butter can accompany the steak, 
which, to vary the flavor, may be first steeped for an hour or 
two in a marinade of oil and vinegar, flavored with a little 
French mustard, shalot, vinegar, and allspice: one part. vinegar 
to two of oil should be used, an J the steak allowed to lie in it 
on a flat dish for an equal time for each side. A cutlet from a 
leg of mutton is very good cooked as above, and fillets from the 
undercut of a sirloin, are excellent. French fried potatoes, or 
potatoes mashed and browned are improvements to these 
dishes. Thick brown oyster or brown soubise sauce may be 
spread over the steak ; and a mutton cutlet looks well and is 
very nice bordered with tomatoes halved, sprinkled with 
pepper and salt, and fried in butter, or it may be served with 
capers scalded with vinegar and sprinkled over it. 

184. BEEP TOUaTJE. 

If it has been dried and smoked before it is dressed it should 
be soaked over night, but if only pickled a few hours will be 
sufficient. Put it in a pot of cold water over a slow fire for 
an hour or two before it comes to a boil ; then let it simmer 
gently for from three to four hours, according to its size : 
ascertain when it is done by probing it with a slcewer. Take 
the skin off, and before serving surround the root with a paper 
frill. 



Pork. mrs. clarke's cookery book. 71 



PORK. 



185. LEa OF FOEZ (to Boast). 

Choose a small leg of fine young pork; cut a slit in the 
knuckle with a sharp knife, and fill the space with sage and 
onion chopped, a little pepper and salt. When half done, 
score the skin in slices, but do not cut deeper than the rfuter 
rind. Apple sauce and potatoes should be served to eat 
with it. 

186. LSa OF FOES (to BoU). 

Salt it eight or ten days: when it is to be dressed, weigh it ; 
let it lie half an hour in cold water to make it white ; allow a 
quarter of an hour for every pound, and half an hour over, 
from the time it boils up : skim it as soon as it boils, and fre- 
quently after. Allow water enough. Save some of it to 
make peas-soup. Some boil it in a very nice cloth, floured, 
which gives a very delicate look. It should be small and of a 
fine grain. Serve peas-pudding and turnips with it. 

187. LOIXT AlTD NEOZ OF FOEZ. 

Roast them. Cut the skin of the loin across, at distances 
of half an inch, with a sharp penknife. 

188. SSOTTLSERS AlTD BUEASTS OF FOZIZ. 

Put them into pickle, or salt the shoulders as the leg; when 
very nice, they may be roasted. 

189. InEOS OF FOES (Rolled).— Ingredients— Neck of pork, 

forcemeat of chopped sage, a few bread-cruraba, salt aud 
pepper, 2 or 3 berries of allspice. 

Bone it ; put a forcemeat of chopped sage, a very few crumbs 
of bread, salt, pepper, and two or three berries of allspice, 
over the inside ; then roll the meat as tight as you can, and 
roast it slowly. 

190. FOES FIE.— Iiigredienta— i lb. of lard, 1 lb. of pork (Ie« 

or loiu), seasoning, 1 lb. of flour aud an egg, ^ glass of cold 
water. 

Put the lard and water in rather a large saucepan ; place 
upon the fire and allow to boil (take care it does not boil over, 
or it will catch fire). Cut the pork into pieces about an inch 
square ; when the lard and water are quite boiling pour into 
the middle of the flour and mix with a spoon. When the 
paste is cool enough knead it well ; it m.ust be rather stiff; cut 
ofi" a quarter of the paste, and the remainder mould into the 



fi MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Pork. 

shape of a basin, pressing it inside ; shape it evenly all round, 
it should be about the third of an inch in thickness ; dip the 
pieces of pork into cold water, seasoning well with pepper and 
salt, then place them in the mould of paste as closely as pos- 
sible. If liked a little chopped sage can be sprinkled over the 
pork, then take the rest of the paste, roll it, and cut to the size 
of the top of the mould ; taking care to have it the same 
size as the inside ; break an egg, and divide the yolk from 
the white ; with a paste brush dip into the white of egg, and 
brush the edge of the paste ; then place this on the top of the 
pie, pressing the edges well. Any trimmings of paste that are 
left, cut into little leayes, dip into the white of egg, and stick 
them on top of the pie ; then wet the pie all over with the 
yolk of the egg and bake for about two hours. 

191. PIG'S PRY.— Ingredients— 1 lb. of pig's fry, 3 lbs. of pota- 

toes, 1 onion, sage and seasoning. 

Put the potatoes into cold water, scrub and wash them 
well ; then place them in a saucepan of cold water and put 
upon the fire to boil ; directly they boil, take them out 
of the water, peel, and cut them into slices ; peel the onion 
and chop it and two or three sage leaves together ; cut the 
pig's fry into small pieces ; grease a dish, and put a layer of the 
potatoes in the bottom; then spr'nUle a little of the sage and 
onion, pepper and salt, then a layer of the pig's fry ; then 
another sprinUling of the seasoning, and so on until the dish is 
full, then put in a little water for gravy; the skin usually sent 
with pig's fry put over the top of the dish ; if the skin is not 
sent, take a piece of whity brown paper and grease it and 
place upon the dish instead. Bake for about one hour. 

192. PORK (Piclilod). 

The quantities proportioned to the middlings of a pretty 
large hog, the hams and shoulders being cut off. 

Mix, and pound fine, four ounces of salt-petre, a pound of 
coarse sugar, an ounce of sal-piuncl, ftnd a little common salt : 
sprinkle the pork with salt and drain it twenty-four hours; 
then rub with the above ; pack the pieces tight in a small deep 
tub, filling up the ipaces with common salt. Place large 
pebbles on the pork to prevent it from swimming in the pickle 
which the salt will produce. If kept from air, it will continue 
very fine for two years. 

193 PORK (Hashed) —Ingredients— Some renuianta of cold 
roast pork, pepper ;uid salt to tiistc, 2 onions, 2 blades of 
mace, 1 teaspoonful of flour, 1 teaspoonful of vinegar, 2 
cloves, i pint of gravy. 

Take the onions, chop and fry them of a nice brown ; then 
take the pork and cut it into thin slices, seasoning with pepper 



PorK. MRS. ci-arke's cookery book. f^ 

and salt to taste, and add these to the rest of the above ingre- 
dients ; stew it for about half an hour gently, and serve with 
sippets of toasted bread. 

194. PORS OXTTLETS-— Ingredients— Loin of pork, pepper and 

salt. 

Cut the loin into chops, take the bone out, and greater por- 
tion of the fat ; season with pepper, and place upon a perfectly 
hot gridiron, and broil for about fifteen minutes. Be particu- 
lar that they are thoroughly done ; dish, sprinkle with a 
little salt, and serve plain, or with tomato sauce. 

195. S'D'0KI1T& PIG (Roast).— Ingredients— pig, 'Soz. of bread- 

crumbs, 18 sage leaves, pepper and salt, tablespoonful of but- 
ter, salad oil to baste with, tablespoonful of lemon juice, ^ 
pint of gravy. 

Stuff the pig with finely grated bread-crumbs, minced sage, 
pepper and salt, and a tablespoonful of butter. Take care 
these are well blended. After stuffing thf* pig, sew up the slit 
neatly, truss the legs back, to allow the inside to be roasted, 
put in oven, and directly it is dry hive ready some butter lie(i 
in a piece of thin cloth, and rub the pig with this in every part. 
Continue this operation several times while roasting ; do not 
allow the pig to burn in any part. Then take Iialf^ a pint of 
gravy, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, and the gravy that 
flowed from the pig, ; pour a little of this over the pig, and the 
remainder send to table in a tureen. Instead of butter for bast- 
ing many cooks use salad oil as this makes the crackling crisp. 
Before dishing cut off the head and part the body down the 
middle, and lay on the dish back to back. Take care that it is 
sent to table 7/ery hot, and serve with apple sauce. It will take 
about two hours for a small pig to roast. 

196. PIG'S PETTITOES. — Ingredients— A slice of bacon cut 

tiiin, an onion, a blade of mace, 5 pcppovcorns, 4 sprigs of 
thyme, 1 pint of gravy, pepper and salt, thickcuing of but- 
ter and flour. 

Put the heart, pettitoes and liver, into a saucepan, add the 
bacon, mace, peppercorns, onion, thyme and gravy ; simmer 
gently for fifteen minutes ; take out the head and liver and 
mince very finely ; allow the feet to stew until quite tender, 
they will take about half an hour, then return to the saucepan 
the liver, thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour, 
sprinkle a little pepper and salt, and simmer very gently for 
five or six minutes, stirring occasionally ; when ready to dish 
split the feet, and arrange them round the mince with 
sippets of toasted bread, and pour the gravy in the centre. 



^4 MRS. CLARKE'S COOKERY BOOK. l*ORlt. 



197. FOBS OHEESE— Ingredients— About 2 lbs. of cold roast 

pork, a dessertspoonful of chopped-up parsley, 5 sage leaves, 
pepper and salt, a bunch of savory herbs, 2 blades of mace, a 
little nutmeg, ^ teaspoonful of minced lemon peal, sufficient 
gravy to fill the mould. 

Cut the pork into pieces, but do not chop ; there should be 
about a quarter of fat to a pound of lean ; sprinkle with pepper 
and salt, pound the spices thoroughly and mince as finely as 
possible, the parsley, sage, lemon peel and herbs : then mix 
all this nicely together. Place in mould and fill with gravy. 
Bake a little over an hour. When perfectly cold turn out. 

198. SAUSAQ-ES- — Ingredients — Pork, fat and lean, sage, pepper 

and salt, a little allspice. 

Chop fat and lean of pork together; season with sage, pepper 
and salt, and you may add two or three berries of allspice ; 
half fill ho^'s' guts that have been soaked and made extremely 
clean : or the meat may be kept in a very small pan, closely 
covered ; and so rolled and dusted with a very little flour be- 
fore it is fried. Serve on stewed red cabbage ; or mashed pota- 
toes, put in a form, brown with a salamander, and garnish with 
the above ; they must be pricked with a fork before they are 
dressed, or they will burst. 

199. HAM (ho'w to Soil to g'ivo it an ozcellont flavor).— in- 

gredients — 2 heads of celery, 2 turnips, vinegar and water, a 

large bunch of savory herbs, and 3 onions. 
In choosing a ham, be sure that it is perfectly sweet. To as- 
certain this stick a sharp knife into it near the bone, when the 
knife is taken out, it will have an agreeable smell if the meat is 
sweet. If the meat has been hung for a long time, and it is salt 
and dry, it would be necessary to soak for twenty-four hours, 
and change the water often. Put the meat in a large pot with 
sufficient water to cover it ; bring it to the boil gradually, and 
carefully take off the scum as it rises ; when on the point of 
boiling add the vegetables and herbs ; let it simmer gently 
until quite tender, then take it out, strip off the skin, cover 
with bread raspings and put a paper frill round the knuckle. 
Four hours will be sufficient for a ham weighing ten pounds. 

200. HAM (Potted)-— Ingredients— 2J lbs. lean ham, % lb. of fat, 1 
teaspoonful of pounded mace, a saltspoonful of pounded 
allspice, \ nutmeg, clarified butter, pepper. 

Take some slices of cold ham, cut them small, mixing the 
lean and fat in the above proportions ; proceed to pound the 
ham to a fine paste in a mortar; gradually add the seasoning, 
and take care that all the ingredients are well mixed, press the 
mixture into pots, cover with the clarified butter and keep it 
cool. 



Pork. mrs. clarke's cookery book. f$ 

201. BAM (Baked)-— Ingredients— Ham, crust. 

Allow the ham to soak in water for twelve hours ; wipe it 
dry, and trim any rusty places underneath ; cover with a com- 
mon crust, taking care that it is thick enough to keep the 
gravy in ; have the oven at a moderate heat and bake for 
about four hours ; when done, take off crust and skin, cover 
with raspings, and garnish the knuckle with a paper frill. 
Very good. 

202. TO G-LAZE A HAM.— Ingredients— An egg, salt, melted 

butter, a cup of powdered cracker, a little cream. 

After the ham is skinned and cold, brush all over with beaten 
egg ; mix the cracker, salt, and melted butter with cream 
enough to make a thick paste ; spread it evenly over the ham 
and brown in a moderate oven. 

203. TO MAZE LAED. 

Take the inner part of the pig, put into a stone jar, and place 
in a saucepan of boiling water ; allow it to simmer gently, and 
as it melts, strain carefully from the sediment ; put in small 
jars and keep in a cool place. The fleed makes exceedingly 
light crust, and is very wholesome. 

204. TRIPE (To Dross)' — ingredients — Tripe, milk and water, 

ouiou sauce. 

Cut away the coarsest fat, take equal proportions of milk and 
water, and boil for three quarters of an hour. Have ready some 
onion sauce and when ready to dish, smother the tripe with the 
sauce, and, any that is left, send to table in a tureen. 

206. FRIED TRIFB -Ingredients— Salt and water, pepper, flour, 
lard, a tablespoon ful of vinegar. 

Scrape the tripe well ; cut into squares the size of your hand ; 
boil in salt and water (a tablespoonful of salt to one quart of 
water) till very tender. The next day cut into smaller pieces, 
season with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, fry brown on 
both sides in a pan of hot lard. When done, take it out, pour 
nearly all the lard out, add a good gill of boiling water, thicken 
with flour,mixed smooth with a tablespoonful of vinegar; season 
to taste, and pour hot over the tripe. A nice breakfast dish. 

Tripe may be cooked several ways, it can be stewed in gravy 
with mushrooms, or cut into collops, sprinkled with chopped 
onion and savoury herbs, and fried a nice brown in clarified 
butter. 

206. TRIPE (Stewed). -Ingredients— 2 quarts of water, pepper 
and salt, onions, a piece of butter, 2 tablespoonsful of cream, 
nutmeg, 2 slices of buttered toast. 

See that the tripe is washed very while ; cut up in pieces 
and put them iuto a slcwpan with two quarts of water, and 



76 Mrs. cLarke's cookery book. Veal. 



pepper and salt to taste. Let boil until quite tender, whicli 
will take about two hours and a half, or perhaps longer ; have 
some white onions 'oiled until quite tender ; then turn them 
out in a cullender to drain ; then mash them, putting them 
back into your saucepan (which you have previously wiped 
out) with a piece of butter, two tablespoonsful oi cream or 
milk, a grating of nutmeg and a very little salt ; sprinkle in a 
little flour, set the pan on the fire, keeping it well covered, 
and give it one boil. Place at the bottom of a dish two slices 
^ buttered toast, cut in pieces, and put the tripe over it. 



VEAL. 



207. BOAST VEAL (StufEed).— Ingredients— 8 oz. of bruised 

bread-crumbs, 4 oz. of chopped suet, shallot, thyme, mar- 
joram, aud winter savory, 2 eggs, salt and pepper. 

To eight ounces of bruised crumbs of bread add four ounces 
of chopped suet, shallot, thyme, marjoram, and winter savory, 
all chopped fine; two eggs, salt and pepper to season ; mix all 
these ingredients into a firm, compact kind of paste, and use 
this stuffing 10 fill a hole or pocket which you will have cut 
with a knife in some part of the piece of veal, taking care to 
fasten it in with a skewer. A piece of veal weighing four 
pounds would require rather more than an hour to cook it 
thoroughly before a small fire. 

208. VEAL (Stowed). — ingredients— 2 (juarts of water, 1 peeled 

onion, a few blades of mace, a little salt, ^ lb. of rice, butter, 
chopped parsley. 

Break the shank bone, wash it clean, and put it into two 
quarts of water, an onion peeled, a few blades of mace and a 
little salt; set it over a quick fire, and remove the scum as it 
rises ; wash carefully a quarter of a pound of rice, and when 
the veal has cooked for about an hour skim it well and throw 
in the rice; simmer for three quarters of an hour slowly; when 
done put the meat in a deep dish and the rice around it. Mix 
a little drawn butler, stir in some chopped parsley, and pour 
over the veal. 

209. VEAL AITS SAM PIE-— Ingredients— Forcemeat balls, 

1 or 2 eggs, ham aud veal, mushrooms, gravy, pie crust, jelly, 
onions, herbs, lemon peel, salt, cayenne, mace, parsley, whites 
of eggs. 

Cut some thin slices off the leg or neck of veal, free them 
from skin and gristle, lard them well, and season with salt and 
pepper. Have some eggs boiled hard and some thin slices of 



Veal. mrs. clarke's cookerv book. 77 



ham. Make some forcemeat balls with fat bacon, the trimmings 
of the veal, chopped onions, parsley, and sweet herbs, grated 
lemon peel, salt, cayenne, and pounded mace. Pound all in a 
mortar, and bind with one or two eggs. Line a pie dish with 
good paste, and fill it with layers (not too close) — first one of 
ham, then one of veal, of forcemeat balls, of the eggs (cut in 
halves), and so on ; a few mushrooms may be added ; put in 
some gravy ; lastly, a layer of thin bacon ; and cover all with 
tolerably thick crust, glaze. Bake for about four hours in a 
moderate oven. Make a hole in the top, and insert some good 
savoury jelly — made with ox or calf's foot, knuckle of veal, 
and trimming of bacon and ham well flavored with onions, more 
herbs and lemon peel, and cleared with the whites of egg. 
Leave till quite cold, then it can be cut with a sharp knife into 
slices. 

210. VEAL PUDDING-- — Ingredients— A few pieces of salt pork, 

butter, pepper, salt, parsley, thyme and flour. 

Line a pudding mould or tin pail with a rich paste and fill the 
cavity with bits of veal cut into small pieces ; add a few pieces 
of salt pork and season to taste with butter, pepper, salt, par- 
sley and thyme, and sufficient boiling water to fill the mould 
two-thirds full ; dredge with flour and then cover the top with 
paste, and after placing the cover on firmly tie a cloth closely 
over the entire mould, and place it in boiling water and allow 
it to boil an hour or more. 

211. VEAL CASE.— -Ingredients— Some hard boiled eggs, a 

layer of ham, tongue or sausage meat, salt, pepper, and nut- 
meg, a layer of veal. 

Have some slices of veal; put a layer of hard boiled eggs 
in a dish, then a layer of ham, tongue or sausage meat ; sea- 
son with salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg ; then a layer of 
veal — in this way fill up the dish. Bake in the oven with a 
little water in the dish, keep it covered while baking ; when 
done put a weight on until cold, then turn it out. A nice dish 
for breakfast or supper. 

212. VEAL OAKE.— Ingredients— 1 lb. of veal cutlet, % lb. of 

blanched streaky bacon, 3 or 4 eggs, aspic jelly, pepper, salt, 
herbs, parsley, chervil and shalot, lemon peel. 

Take about one lb. of veal cutlet and half lb. of blanched 
streaky bacon, cut the veal into neat collops, and slice the 
bacon; boil three or four eggs hard, and slice them. ,Have 
ready some aspic jelly or some reduced, well-flavored, clarified 
white stock ; put into a plain mould a layer of the aspic jelly, 
then some slices of the egg, a layer of veal, then one of bacon, 
sprinkling each layer freely with pepper, salt, and chopped 
heibs, parsley, chervil, and shalot, and on the layer of veal 



78 MRS. Clarke's cookery i?ook. Veal. 



add a small quantity of grated lemon peel ; repeat till all the 
ingredients are used up. Fill up the mould with aspic jelly, 
cover it either with stiff flcir-and-water paste or with double 
paper tied securely on ; bake about an hour in a moderate 
oven. When cold turn it out, and garnish with sprigs of cher- 
vil, watercress, or parsley. 

213. VEAL (Marbled). — ingredients— Spice, butter, tongue and 

veal. 

Take some cold roasted veal, season with spice, beat in a 
mortar ; skin a cold boiled tongue, cut up and pound it to a 
paste, adding to it nearly its weight of butter ; put some of the 
veal into a pot, and strew in lumps of the pounded tongue ; put 
in another layer of the veal and then more tongue ; press it 
down and pour clarified butter on top ; this cuts very prettily 
like veined marble. White meat of fowls may be used instead 
of veal. 

214. VEAL SCALLOP- — Ingredients — Pepper and salt, crackers, 

milk and gravy from meat, 2 eggs, butter. 

Chop some cold roast or stewed veal very fine ; pui a layer 
on the bottom of a pudding dish well buttered; season with 
pepper and salt. Next have a layer of finely-powdered crack- 
ers ; wet with a little milk or some of the gravy from the meat. 
Proceed until the dish is full ; spread over all a thick layer of 
cracker-crumbs, seasoned with salt and wet into a paste with 
milk and two beaten eggs. Stick pieces of butter all over it, cover 
closely, and bake half an hour ; then remove the cover and 
bake long enough to brown nicely. Do not get it too dry. 

215. QUENELLES OP VEAL.— Ingredients — l lb. of veal 

cutlet, a gill of water, salt, butter, nutmeg, flour, 4 eggs, ^ 

gill of cream. 
Remove the skin from one lb. of veal cutlet, and cut it into 
small pieces. Put into a stewpan a gill of water, a pinch of 
salt, and a small piece of butter ; when boiling stir in as much 
flour as will form a paste ; when it is smooth put it away to 
get cold, then take half the quantity of butter that you have of 
veal, and half the quantity of paste you have of butter, put the 
paste into a mortar, pound it well, then add the butter, pound 
it, then add the veal ; pound well for ten minutes, add one 
whole egg, three yolks of eggs, salt, pepper, a little grated nut- 
meg, work well together, pass through a wire sieve, stir in half 
a gill of cream, shape the quenelles with two tablespoons, place 
them in a well-buttered saut^-pan, leaving a clear space on one 
side ; put a good pinch of salt in that space, pour in sufficient 
boiling water to cover the quenelles, and leave them to poach 
for ten minutes, then drain them carefully on a cloth ; arrange 
on a disht 



Veal, mrs. clarkes cookery ijook. 79 



216. PRIOAITDBA'O' OF VEAL— Ingredients — A fillet or 

cushion of veal, lard, bacon, carrots, onions, sweet herbs, salt, 
pepper, spices, stock, spinach. 

Neatly trim a nice piece of fillet or cushion of veal, lard it 
thickly on one side with bacon. Place in a large stewpan a 
layer of slices of bacon, then some carrots and onions cut in 
slices, with a bundle of sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and spices to 
taste ; lay the piece of veal in the middle, and moisten with 
about a pint of stock. Let the meat stew gently for two or 
three hours, basting the top occasionally. Then strain off the 
gravy, put it into a small saucepan, skim off superfluous fat, 
add to it a little butter mixed smooth with a small quantity of 
flour, and let the gravy reduce nearly to a glaze ; pour it over 
the meat, the top of which should be previously browned with 
a salamander if necessary, and serve with a border ot spinach. 

217. ROL LE D VEAL — Ingredients — Loin of veal, forcemeat, 

bacon, bread-crumbs, eggs, lemon peel, sweet herbs, salt, cay- 
enne, pounded mace, fat bacon. 

Bone a loin of veal and stuff it with forcemeat made of bacon, 
bread-crumbs, and eggs, and flavored with lemon peel, sweet 
herbs, salt, cayenne, and pounded mace. Tie it up, keeping it 
the shape of a large sausage ; lay some slices of fat bacon on 
it, and stew gently for four hours in well-flavored stock. Let 
it cool ; remove from the stock, and put it under heavy weights. 
When quite cold, glaze it. 

218. OOLLAEED CALF'S HEAD-— Ingredients— A calf's 

head, 5 tablespoonsful of pai'sley, 4 blades of pounded mace, 
pepper to taste, a grated nutmeg, a few thick slices of ham, 
the yolks of 5 eggs boiled hard. 

Scald the head for ten minutes, then scrape off the hair ; 
divide the head and remove the brains ; boil for about two 
hours, and if tender remove the bones. When this is done, 
flatten it on the table, sprinkle a thick layer of parsley, like- 
wise of ham, and cut the yolks of the eggs into rings, and 
place these upon the ham, then season with pounded mace, 
white pepper, and nutmeg between each layer ; roll the head in 
a cloth, and tie as tightly as possible. Boil for about four hours 
then remove from the pot ; place a heavy weight on the top. 
Let it remain till cold, then remove the cloth and serve. 

219. VEAL SA7SA0-ES*— Ingredients— Equal quantities of lean 

veal and fat bacon, a handful of sage, salt, pepper, a few 
anchovies. 

Chop equal quantities of lean veal and fat bacon, a handful 
of sage, a iiiilc iiait, pepper, and a few anchovies. Beat all in 
a mortar ; and when used, roll and fry it, and serve with fried 
sipftets, ur Oil stewed vegetables, or on white coilopsi 



8o MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Vkai.. 

220. VEAL OUTLETS —Ingredients— 41bs. of the best end of the 
neck of veal, ^ teaspoonful of minced thyme, rind of a small 
lemon, 1 bunch of parsley, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, 1 egg, pepper and salt, bread-crumbs, 
Alb. of bacon. 

To sljape the cutlets, saw off the end of the rib bone, saw off 
the chine bone also, which lies at the back of the cutlets ; then 
form the cutlets to a neat shape. Mince thyme, and lemon 
rind and parsley, as finely as possible ; melt the butter, and 
add these ingredients to it ; add also the ef,% pepper and salt, 
and beat all up together ; then rub very finely some crumbs 
of bread ; dip each cutlet into the mixture, then cover with 
bread-crumbs ; when the gridiron is perfectly warm, arrange 
the cutlets upon it. Have the fire nice and bright, but do not 
allow them to cook too fast or the bread-crumbs will burn be- 
fore the cutlets are cooked through; allow them to brown 
nicely on bdth sides ; about ten minutes will be the time. 
Serve on a wall of mashed potatoes in a circle ; fill the centre 
of dish with rolls of bacon and with a nice brown sauce. (See 
" Sauces.") 

For rolls. — Cut some neat slices of bacon, roll them up and 
run a skewer through each ; place this in the oven for about 
five minutes, then remove skewer and arrange in centre of the 
dish. 

221. HARICOT OF VEAL. — Ingredients— Best end of a small 

neck, a little brown gravy, 1 pt. of peas, small cucumbers, 2 
lettuces, a little broth, a few forcemeat balls. 

Take the best end of a small neck ; cut the bones short, but 
leave it whole ; then put it into a stewpan just covered with 
brown gravy ; and when it is nearly done, have ready a pint of 
boiled peas, six cucumbers pared and sliced, and two cabbage- 
lettuces cut into quarters, all t^tewed in a little good broth ; put 
them to the veal, and let them simmer ten minutes. When 
the veal is in the dish, pour the sauce and vegetables over it, 
and lay the lettuce with forcemeat balls round it. 

222. HASHED CALF'S HEAD (a la PoulottO).— Ingredients- 

Calf's head, 2oz. of butter, 2 tablcspoonsfal of flour, ^ pint of 
white stock, a few button mushrooms, white pepper,aud salt 
to taste, 2 eggs, juice of a lemon, parsley. 

Cut the remnants of a boiled head into uniform pieces the 
size of half an apple. Melt in a saucepan one or two ounces of 
butter, according to the quantity of meat to be hashed ; amal- 
gt.mate with it one or two tablespoonslul of flour, then stir in 
half a pint, more or less, of white stock. Stir well, then add a 
few button mushrooms, white pepper and salt to taste, and let 
the sauce boil for ten minutes. Put the saucepan by the side 



Veal. mrs. Clarke's cookery cook. 8i 

of the fire, and lay the pieces of calfs head in it ; let them ge* 
hot slowly, but not boil. Just before serving stir in off the fire 
the yolks of two eggs, beaten up with the juice of a lemon, and 
strained ; nlso a small quantity of either tarragon or parsley 
very finely minced. 

223. MZITCED VEAL.— Ingredients— Some remnants of roast or 

braized veal, a shallot, a little butter, a little flour, a little 

stock, a few sprigs of parsley, pepper and salt, nutmeg to 

taste, a few drops of lemon juice, fried bread, and poached 

eggs. 

Take some remnants of roast or braized veal, trim off all 

browned parts, and mince it very finely ; fry a shallot, chopped 

small, in plenty of butter ; when it is a light straw color add a 

large pinch of flour and a little stock, then the minced meat, 

with chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and nutmeg to taste ; mix 

well, add more stock if necessary, and let the mince gradually 

get hot by the side of the fire; lastly, add a few drops of lemon 

juice. Serve with sippets of bread fried in butter round, and 

the poached eggs on the top. 

224. VBA.L (Braized Loin of).— ingredients— Veal, 2 oz. of but- 

ter, 1 carrot, 1 onion, a little parsley, sweet herbs, a laaf or 
two of basil, a bay leaf, a crust of bread toasted brown, a little 
flour, and a little stock. 

Take about two oz. of butter, one carrot, one onion, a little 
parsley, sweet herbs, a leaf or two of basil, and a bay leaf; 
brown a large crust of bread, and put it in a stewpan with the 
above things, and fry them until they are brown ; then flour 
the meat, and brown it well, putting it back in the saucepan ; 
add a little stock, and baste it in the gravy till done, and keep 
turning the moat. Simmer four pounds for three or four hours. 

225. HASHED CALF'S HEAD- — Ingredients — An onion, a slice 

of f;it bacon, an oz. of butter, a tablespoonful of flour, a 15ct, 
bottle of French tomato sauce, a bay leaf, 2 sprigs of thyme, 
1 of marjoram, 3 of parsley, 2 cloves, a doz. peppercorns, salt, 
eiyenne pepper, a little stock, fried sippets of bread. 

Mince an onion and i slice of fat bacon, fry them both with 
an ounce of butter until the onion begins to color, stirring well 
all the time to avoid any piece of one or the other getting 
burnt. Stir in a tablespoonful of flour, and a minute afterwards, 
moisten with a 1 5c. bottle of French tomato sauce; add a bay leaf 
two sprigs of thyme, one of marjoram, and three of parsley, two 
cloves, a dozen peppercorns, salt to taste, and the least possible 
quantity of cayenne pepper (as much as can be taken up with 
the end of a trussing needle). Let the sauce boil gently for 
half an hour; add a little stock to it if necessary, and strain it 
into a clean saucepan; when quite cold lay the pieces of calf's 

F 



89 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Veal. 

head into it, and let the whole be warmed very gradually on a 
slow fire ; the longer it will take to get hot, the better will the 
dish be. Care should be caken that the pieces of calf's head 
are well covered with the sauce. Serve garnished with fried 
sippets of bread. 

226. HASHED OALP'S HEAD— Ingredients— l pint of brown 

Bauce, 1 glass of sherry, a doz. of button mushrooms, the same 
quantity of pieces of i^ickled gherkins, a doz ti-uflfles, a doz. 
olives stoned, bread sippets, a little butter and 3 eggs, force- 
meat balls. 
Take a pint of brown sauce, add to it one glass of sherry, a 
dozen or more button mushrooms, the same quantity of pieces 
of pickled gherkins and of trufllcs cut with a vegetable cutter 
to the shape of olives, and a dozen olives stoned. Let the sauce 
come to a boil, then lay in il the remnants of a boiled calPs 
head cut in uniform and shapely pieces, simmer very slowly for 
about an hour, and serve garnished with bread sippets fried in 
butter, and hard-boiled eggs. The tongue, cut in convenient 
pieces, can also be added to this hash, as well as cocks' combs 
and forcemeat balls, etc, N.B. — The gherkins, after being cut, 
should be steeped in cold water for two or three hours. 

227. TBZMBALBS OP VEAL.— Ingredients— Tumipand carrots, 

salt water, a pinch of sugar, butter, flour, veal suet, boiled 
onion, peppei", and spices to taste, a little nutmeg, 3 or 4 
eggs. 
With a column cutter cut out of turnips and the red part of 
carrots a number of long, round pieces rather less than three- 
eighths of an inch in diameter. Cut these pieces into slices 
about one-eighth of an inch thick. Be careful to have all these 
pieces, which should be like very small counters, of uniform 
shape. Boil them separately in salted water with a pinch of 
sugar ; do not let them be overdone, and turn them out on a 
sieve to drain quite dry. Take a number of cake moulds, 
butter them thickly, and, using a trussing needle for the pur- 
pose, line them with the pieces of carrots and turnips in alter- 
nate rows by pressing them gently against the buttered bottom 
and sides. When they are all done, fill them with the following 
composition: put half a pint of water into a stewpan, with a 
pinch of salt and a sn.all piece of butter; when it boils, stir 
into it enough flour to make a thick paste ; put it by to get 
cold. Take equal parts of this paste and veal suet, carefully 
picked ; pound them first separately, then together, in a mor- 
tar, with a piece of boiled onion, more or less, according to 
taste. Pound some lean veal, and of this take as much as there 
is paste and suet ; work the whole together in a mortar, sea^ 
soning the mixture with pepper and salt and spices to taste, 
on? of which ^ihould be nutmeg, Pass the whole through f\ 



Veal. mrs. clarke's cookery book. 83 



sieve ; work in as many whole egcjs as will bind the mixture" 
Place the moulds into a stewpan with hot water, with a piece 
of paper over them, and steam them for about half an hour. 
Turn them out very carefully on a dish, and pour under them 
a sufficient quantity of the following sauce : put into a pint of 
milk two or three mushrooms, one onion and a carrot cut into 
pieces, a bunch of sweet herbs, whole pepper and salt to taste, 
a few cloves, and a little mace ; let the whole gently simmer 
for about an hour. Put an ounce of butter into a saucepan, 
and mix with it a tablespoonful of flour; then strain the fla- 
vored milk into the saucep.in, and stir on tbe fire unt'l it thick- 
ens. Finish by stirring in a gill of cream. 

228. GALANTIITE OP VEAL —Ingvedients— A breast of veal, 
i lb. of fat bacoii, powdered spice, sweet herbs, pepper and 
salt, i lb. of boiled tongue, ^ doz. truflles, a calf's foot, 2 or 3 
onions, 2 carrots, a clove of garlic, a bundle of sweet herbs 
(thyme, marjoram, parsley and bay leaf ), cloves, whole pepper 
mace and salt. 

Take a piece of breast of veal about twelve or lourtcen 
inches long ; bone and trim it carefully, removing all gristle and 
superfluous fat, as well as some of the meat (about one lb.) 
Take this meat and ^ lb. of fat bacon, pound together in amor- 
tar, season with' powdered spice and sweet herbs, pepper and 
salt to taste ; then pass the mixture through a wire sieve; cut 
^2. lb. of boiled tongue in pieces about one inch square; cut 
half a dozen truffles each into three or four pieces. Lay the 
prepared breast ot veal skin downwards on the table, sprinkle 
it with pepper, salt, and powdered spices ; lay the pounded 
meat, the truffles, and the tongue on it, then roll it up neatly as 
a roly-poly pudding, and tie it up tightly in a cloth. Put all the 
trimmings and bones into a saucepan large enough to hold the 
galantine, add a calf's foot cut in pieces, the trimmings of the 
bacon (mind they are perfectly sweet), two or three onions, and 
two carrots cut in pieces, a clove of garlic, a bundle of sweet 
herbs (thyme, marjoram, parsley, and bay leaf), cloves, whole 
pepper, mace, and salt, in proportions according to taste. Fill 
up with such a quantity ot cold water as will leave room for the 
galantine to be put in. Set the saucepan on the fire ; when the 
contents boil put in the galantine ; let it boil gently without in- 
terruption from two to two and a half hours ; then lift it out, 
put it on a plate, and when it has cooled a little take off the 
cloth, tie it up afresh, and lay it between two dishes with a mod- 
erate weight upon it, to remain till cold. Care must be taken 
^ in this last operation that the "seam" of the galantine be made 
to come undermost. When quite cold undo the cloth, glase 
the galantine, and garnish with savoury jelly made from th? 
liquor iij which it was boiled. 



84 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Muitgn. 



MUTTON. 



MXJTTOIT OUTLETS. 

Thif is an en trde always ready to hand, but it must be cart- 
fully and neatly prepared. A dish of well-dressed mutton cut- 
lets is truly " a dish to put before a king;" whereas greasy, fat, 
gristly lumps of meat, called for the nonce cutlets, offend the 
taste of the least fastidious. The first thing to attend to is the 
cutting and trimming of the cutlets neatly. Take a piece ot 
the best end of the neck of mutton, saw off the bones short, re- 
move gristle and fat, cut the cutlets about one-third of an inch 
in thickness, shape and trim them neatly, beat them with a 
c'Jtlet bat dipped in water, and then proceed to cook them by 
any of the following recipes : 

829. Pepper, salt, and broil them over a brisk fire, serve them 
vith mashed or J'a?^/r<?j potatoes in the centre of the dish. 

230. Season as above, and before broiling dip them in oil 
or oiled butter. Serve with 

231. S0T7BZSE SAUCE- 

Peel and blanch four onions, cool them in water, drain and 
put them in a stewpan with sufficient water or white stock to 
cover them, add some cayenne, bay leaf, a little mace, a small 
piece of ham or bacon ; keep the lid closely shut and simmer 
gently until tender ; take them ou*:, drain them thoroughly, 
press through a sieve or tammy cloth, add half pint of bd- 
chamel sauce made thus : put in a stewpan a little parsley, 
one clove, a small piece of bay leaf, sweet herbs, and one pint 
of white stock freed from fat ; when boiled long enough to ex- 
tract the flavor of the herbs, etc., strain it, boil up quickly, till 
reduced to half the quantity ; mix a tablespoonful of arrowroot 
with half pint of milk or cream, pour on the reduced stock and 
simmer for ten minutes. 

282. Boil them as in recipe 231, and serve with is. puree of 
vegetables — haricot beans or celery — in the centre of the dish, 
or with chestnut sauce. 

233. FX7ZIEE OF BAEIOOT BE AITS. 

Soak one pint of beans for twelve hours at least, put 
them with three quarts of stock, an onion stuck with cloves, 
a carrot, half a head of celery, one-quarter pound of bacon, 
some parsley, thyme, and bay leaf; simmer till quite tender, 
drain, strain the broth, pass the /«^<?<? through a sieve, moisten- 
ing with the broth, add pepper, salt, and it is ready for use. 



Mutton. mrs. clarke's cookery book. ^5 

234. PTTRSE OF OELSHT. 

Clean, cut into small pieces the white part of three or four 
heads of celery. Stew them, till quite tender, in white stock, 
season with pepper, salt, and mace. Pass them through a 
sieve, put them into a saucepan with a small piece of butter, 
add a little cream ; mix well and serve. 

235. OBESTITUT SAT70E. 

Remove the outer shell from some fine chestnuts, scaldthem 
in boiling water, and remove the inner skin. Stew them in 
good white stock till quite tender, drain, and while hot press 
them through a sieve. Put the pulp into a saucepan, add a 
small piece of butter, a little sugar, pepper, and salt. Stir over 
the fire till quite hot, but do not let it boil, and serve. 

236. Prepare and season the cutlets as in recipe 233, dip them 
into the beaten-up yolk of an egg, or into oiled butter. Strew 
over them some plain (or better still, baked) bread crumbs, 
some finely minced parsley, and shalot ; broil and serve with 
Italian sauce. 

237. ZTALIAIT SAUCE. 

Put a slice -of ham, two tablespoonsful of finely chopped 
mushrooms, and an onion (also chopped) into a stewpan with one 
gill of oil ; when the onion is well colored add three quarters 
of a pint of reduced gravy, a wineglass of white wine or vinegar, 
a spoonful of chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and a few slices of 
lemon ; simmer for half an hour, skim, remove the ham and 
slices of lemon, and serve hot. 

2B8. Cut the cutlets about three-quarters of an inch thick, 
trim as before, and flatten with the cutlet bat, beat uptheyolk 
of an egg, and mix with it chopped herbs — parsley, thyme, mar- 
joram — some grated bread, nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Cover 
the cutlets with this, and put each one into a well-buttered 
paper,broil over a clear fire on both sides, remove the paper, 
and serve with 

239. AZTJSHEOOIA SAUCE. 

Remove the stalks and gritty part from half a pint of mush- 
rooms ; wash, drain, and put them into half a piut of well-fla- 
vored gravy, simmer them till quite tender, drain them, and 
keep them hot. Melt one oz. of butter in a saucepan, add to it 
one oz. of flour, stir over the fire till brown; pour in the gravy, 
stirring till it boils. Arrange the mushrooms in the centre of 
the dish, the cutlets round them, and pour the sauce over. 

240. Dip them in oiled butter, sprinkle them with bread 
crumbs and grated parmesan cheese, then dip them in beaten 
yolk of egg, put another layer of bread-crumbs and grated par- 



§6 MRS. Clarke's cookerV book. Mutton. 



mesan cheese ; fry in boiling lard till of a gold color, and serve 
with 

247. TOIAATO SAUOE. 

Mix in a saucepan one half oz. of butter and one half oz. of 
flour, add by degrees a small bottle of conserve detomates and a 
small quantity of stock, boil it up, and serve. 

242. Cutlets may be fried in hot butter, lard, or clarified 
dripping, after having been simply floured, or dipped in egg, 
melted butter, or oil, then bread-crumbed, etc.,asin recipes 237 
and 239. Can be served with plain gravy, with the purees of 
vegetables, or with any of the above sauces and garnishes. 

243. Cut (not too thin) and trim some cutlets. Prepare some 
vegetables — carrots, turnips, celery, and potatoes — cut theni 
all one size and shape, toss them in butter (each vegetable 
separately) till nearly done; add to the butter a thickening ot 
flour. When colored add about one pint of stock, free from 
grease, two tablespoonsful of coiiseri'e de iomates, a faggot ol 
herbs, pepper, salt ; put in the cutlets, stew them gently, when 
nearly done add the vegetables, simmer them together till quite 
tender, remove the faggot, and serve with the gravy and the 
vegetables. (The vegetables may be stewed with the, cutlets, 
but in that case the turnips and potatoes must be put in after 
the carrots.) 

244. Cut them rather thick, lard and put them in a braizing 
pan, with enough good gravy to cover them ; add an onion 
stuck with cloves, a sliced carrot, a faggot of herbs ; braize till 
quite tender. Remove them from the gravy, strain, then reduce 
it, and skim well. When cold trim the cutlets caref^ully, simmer 
them till hot in the reduced gravy. Have ready a block of 
bread (pyramid shape); fry it in butter, put it in the centre 
of the dish, the cutlets round it (the gravy in the dish), and 
garnish with carrots and turnips (cut up small, and previously 
tossed in butter) arranged alternately between the cutlets. In- 
stead of the block of bread, and garnish of carrots and turnips, 
they may be served with any puree of vegetable, with tomatoes, 
etc., according to the season. 

245. OHARTRETJSB OP MTJTTOIT—Tngredients-Some cold 
boiled vegetables of auy kind and cut into various shapes, 
cold mashed potatoes ; for the sauce, 2 oz. of butter, a little 
flour, Btock flavored with muahrooin or vegetables. 

Butter the inside of a straight-sided tin mould. Take some 
cold boiled vegetables of different kinds, and cut them into 
small slices of various shapes — squares, circles, triangles, etc. 
— then arrange them in a mosaic pattern on the inside of the 
mould, to which the butter will make them adhere. Thevege- 



Mutton. mrs, Clarke's cookery book. 87 



tables may be carrots, turnips, beetroot, Jerusalem artichokes, 
and Brussels sprouts in the winter, and in summer cairots, tur- 
nips, asparagus points, French beans, and peas. The great 
thing is to contrast the colors well, and make a really pretty 
mosaic. Then, in order to keep the vegetables in their places, 
spread over them a layer of cold mashed potatoes about li in. 
thick. Now make a thick white sauce as follows : Put two 
ounces of butter into a stewpan, and thicken it slowly with sift- 
ed flour (taking care noc to color the flour) ; then add some 
strong stock flavored with mushrooms or vegetables, and the 
cold mutton cut into small slices about + in. thick and 3 in. 
square. Stew gently for half an hour. In the meantime let 
the mould be put in the oven until the vegetables and mashed 
potatoes are heated through ; then pour into it the sauce and 
meat, anc' lacing a dish on the top of the mould, turn out the 
chartreub. . This is a very pretty dish ; but care must be taken 
not to break the shape in turning it out of the mould, and, also 
a great deal depends on the taste with which the vegetables ar;; 
arranged. 

246. CROQUETTES OP MUTTOIT.— Ingredients— Some cold 
imnced mutton with a few oysters or mushrooms, some highly 
flavored strong stock, a little roux, a little butter, a little 
sifted flour (baked), yolk of an egg, bread crumbs, spinach. 

Croquettes to be good should be of a golden brown color, 
not at all greasy, crisp on the outside, and quite soft inside. 
To make them like this, follow the recipe here given ; Mince 
very finely some cold mutton with a few oysters or afewmush- 
rooms; take some strong stoi ic well flavored with vegetables 
and highly seasoned, put it in a stewpan, and thicken it with 
roux (/. e., butter melted over a slow fire, well skimmed, 
thickened to a stiff paste with baked sifted flour^and left to cool 
before use). Let the stock simmer, and stir in the roux, taking 
care to stir always in the same directisn ; when a nice and 
tolerably thick sauce has been made, add the minced mutton, 
etc., to it, and let the mince warm through, stirring it gently 
round as it does so ; then put it on a dish, and leave it to cool 
for some hours. When it is quite cold it should form a jelly- 
like paste, just consistent enough to make soft balls. These 
balls should be of the shape and size of a large egg. Dip them 
twice over, first in the yolk of an egg and then in grated bread- 
crumbs, then fry them in boiling fat. The boiling fat should 
cover them entirely ; they must be put into it one at a time 
very carefully and gently, and taken out with equal care to 
prevent the risk of breaking them. It is for this reason that it 
18 necessary to egg and bread-crumb them twice over. Arrange 
them round a dish with boiled peas, French beans, or spinach, 
piled up in the centre. 



88 MRS. CLARKE'S COOKERY BOOK. MuTTON. 



247. OOBNETTES DE MOUTOIT.— Ingredients— Some cold 

mutton with oysters or muslirooms, some puff paste, the yolk 
of an egg, vermicelli. 

Mince some cold mutton with either oysters or mushrooms 
very finely, as for croquettes. Make a thick sauce in the same 
way as that described in the preceding recipe, add the mince 
to it, and leave it to cool in precisely the same manner as if for 
croquettes. Then make some puff paste, roll it out very thin — 
almost as thin as a wafer — cut it into pieces, and wrap up in 
them lumps of the prepared mince about the size ot a walnut, 
making small triangular patties. Brush these patties over 
with the yolk of an egg. Dip them in uncooked vermicelli, 
which will adhere to the egg and paste, and bake them in the 
oven till the vermicelli is of a pale golden brown color. Serve 
them up dry on a folded napkin. These cornettes should be 
quite soft inside, and melt in the mouth when eaten. 

248. MOUTON A L'lTALIBNNE.— Ingredients- Slices of 

underdone leg of mutton, buttered white paper, macaroni. 

For the sauce — a little strong stock, roux to thicken, juice of 

a lemon, mushroom catchup to taste, cayenne f "pper, and ;} 

glass of claret. 
Cut some slices of underdone leg of mutton about half an 
inch thick. Wrap them each in a piece of buttered white paper, 
and broil them over a clear fire. Then remove the papers as 
quickly as possible, and put the meat in the centre of dish, ar- 
ranging round it a wall of hot boiled macaroni. Pour over it 
a sauce made as follows, and serve very hot. The Sauce : 
Take some strong stock, thicken with brown roux and fla- 
vor the sauce with lemon juice, mushroom catchup, cay- 
enne pepper, and half a glass of claret. All these receipts for 
doing up cold mutton were given to me by a lirst-rate French 
cook, and, if followed carefully by a cook who has some taste 
and discretion in seasoning, will be found to be very good. 

249. HAEIOOT MUTTON. —InKredieuts—Scraif of mutton, a 

little flour, 2 small onions, 1 bunch of savory herbs, 3 cloves, 

{)epper and salt, 1 blade of mace, 2 small carrots, 1 turnip, a 
ittle sugar. 
Cut the meat into shapely pieces and fry a nice color ; 
sprinkle them with a little flour, pepper and salt. Put all into 
a stewpan, just cover with boiling water, then put in your 
onion stuck with three cloves, the herbs and mace. Allow tliis 
to boil vety gently till the meat is tender ; take ofT any fat 
there may be. Cut up the turnip and carrots (if cut with vege- 
table cutter they will look nicer) ; fry them in a little sugar to 
color them ; add these to the meat and allow to simmer for 
fifteen or twenty minutes. When ready to serve, take out the 
onion and bunch of herbs. 



Mutton. mrs. Clarke's cooKEkv booR. 89 



250. 14T7TT01T PUDDIITQ-.— Ingredients— 2 lbs. of the chump 

end of the loin, weighed after being boned ; suet crust (pro- 
portions — 6 oz. of suet to each lb. of flour), 1 tablespoonful of 
miuced onion, pepper and salt. 
Cut the meat into thin slices, sprinkling with pepper and 
salt. For the suet crust use the above proportions of flour and 
suet, mixing with a little salt and pepper, milk or water, to the 
proper consistency. Line your dish with the crust, lay in the 
meat, nearly fill the dish with water ; add the minced onion 
and cover with the crust. 

251. LAMB (Episraxnmes of). — Ingredients — Breast of lamb, 

some onions, carrots, celery, whole pepper, salt, cloves, pars, 
ley and sweet herbs ; 2 eggs, ^ lb. of bread-crumbs, lard. 

Braise a piece of breast of lamb in a stewpan with a little 
water and some onions, carrots, celery, whole pepper, salt, 
cloves, parsley, and sweet herbs to taste. When sufficiently 
cooked to allow it, pull out all the bones, and put the breast 
between two dishes with a heavy weight on it. The breast 
being quite cold and flat, cut it out into small cutlets ; egg and 
breadcrumb them, then fry them a nice color in lard, and 
serve with a pur^e of peas in the centre of the dish. 

252. PUREE OP PEAS (to serve withtlxe alDove).— ingredi- 

dients— 1 pt. of green peas, a little salt, 1 slice of onion, a 
sprig of parsley and a few leaves of mint ; a little stock and 
a small piece of fresh butter. 

Boil one pint of green peas in water, with salt, a slice of 
onion, a sprig of parsley, and a few leaves of mint. When 
cooked, drain off the water, and pass them through a hair 
sieve. Moisten the purde to a proper consistency with some 
good stock, perfectly free from fat ; work it well in a saucepan 
on the fire with a piece of fresh butter until it is quite hot, and 
serve. 

253. MUTTON" (Boned Leg' of, Stuffed) —Ingredients— a leg 

weighing 7 or 8 pounds, 2 shalots, forcemeat. 
Make forcemeat, to which add the mine J shalots. Get the 
butcher to take the bone from the mutton, as he can do it with- 
out spoiling the skin ; if very fat, cut off some of it. Fill up 
the hole with the forcemeat, then sew it up to prevent it falling 
out, tie up neatly and roast about lyi hours or a little longer. 
When ready to serve, remove the string and serve with a good 
gravy. 

254. LAMB (Stowed).— Ingredients— A breast of lamb, 1 table- 

spoonful of salt, 1 qt. of canned peas, 1 tablespoonful of wh'^at 
flour, 3 tablespoonsful of butter, pepper to taste. 
Cut the scrag, or breast of lamb, in pieces and put in a stew- 
pan with water enough to cover it. Cover the stewpan closely 



90 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Mutton 

and let it simmer or stew for fifteen or twenty minutes ; take 
ofif the scum, then add a tablespoonful of salt and a quart of 
canned peas ; cover the stewpan and let them stew for half an 
hour ; work a small tablespoonful of wheat flour with three 
tablespoonsful of butter, and stir it into the stew : add pepper 
to taste ; let it simmer together for ten minutes. 

255. LATilB OHOrS-— Ingredients— A little butter, a little water, 

enuugli potatoes to fill a small dish, 1 teacupful of cream. 
Lamb chops are excellent cooked this way : Put them in a 
frying-pan with a very little water, so little that it will boil 
away by the time the meat is tender ; then put in lumps of 
butter with the meat and let it brown slowly ; there will be a 
brown, crisp surface, with a fine flavor. Serve for breakfast 
with potatoes cooked thus : Choose small ones and let them 
boil till they are tender ; drain off the water, and pour over 
them, while still in the kettle, at least one teacuplul of cream ; 
mash them smooth in this. 

256. LhAJfBS' TAILS- — Ingredients — A few slices of bacon, 3 

onions and carrots, 1 clove of garlic, 1 sprig of thyme, 1 bay 
leaf, 1 bunch of parsley, a little salt, a few cloves, a little 
whole pepper, 1 glass of sherry, 1 pint of stock or water, a 
puree of spinach or sorrel. 
Trim the tails. Place some slices of bacon in a saucepan, 
over them a layer of onions and carrots sliced, then the tails ; 
then a clove of garlic, a sprig of thyme, a bay leaf, and some 
parsley tied up in a bundle, salt to taste, a few cloves, and 
some whole pepper. Place the saucepan over the fire for ten 
minutes, then add a glass of sherry and about a pint of stock, 
or water, and let the whole simmer gently for two or three 
hours. Take out the tails, strain the liquor; let it reduce al- 
most to a glaze, put back the tails in it to get warm, and serve 
with a puree of spinach or sorrel. 

257. SEOTJLDBR OF MUTTON (Boiled mth Oysters).- 

Ingi?idieut8 — A little pepper, a piece of mace, about 2 dozen 
oysteib, a little water, au onion, a few peppercorns, about ^ 
pint of good gravy, a tablespoonful of flour and butter. 
Hang it some days, then salt it well for two days ; bone it, 
end sprinkle it with pepper and apiece of mace pounded: lay 
some oysters over it, and roll the meat up tight and tie it. Stew 
it in a small quantity of water, with an onion and a few pepper- 
corns, till quite tender. Have ready a little good gravy, and 
some oysters stewed in it : thicken this with flour and butter, 
and pour over the mutton, when the tape is taken off. The 
Btewpan should be kept covered. 

258. SWEETSEEASS- 

Half boil them, an-I stew .hem in a white gravy : add cream, 
flour, butter, nutmeg, ih\t, and white pepper. Or do them in 



Mutton. mrs. clarke's cookery book. 91 



brown sauce seasoned. Or parboil them, and then cover them 
withcrumbs,herbs, and seasoning, and brown them in a Dutch- 
oven. Serve with butter, and mushroom-catchup or gravy. 
N.B. — If there is no oven at hand, they may be toasted belore 
the fire upon a toasting; fork. 

259. S'^ESTBZIEADS (Zloastod)- 

Parboil two large ones when cold, lard them with bacon, and 
roast them in a Dutch-oven. Forsauce, plain butter, and mush- 
room-catchup. 

260. SWEETBEEAD (Eaffout)- 

Cut them about the size of a walnut, ;vash and dry them, and 
fry them of a fine brown ; pour to them a good gravy seasoned 
with salt, pepper, allspice, and either mushrooms or mushroom 
catchup : strain, and thicken with butter and a little flour. You 
may add truffles and mushrooms. 

261. SWEETBREADS (Larded.).— Ingredients— A couple of 

sweetbreads, a few slips of bacon, onions, carrots, sweet herbs, 
pepper, salt, spice to taste, a smsll quantity of rich stock. 
Trim a couple of sweetbreads, soak them half an hour in 
tepid water, then parboil them for a few minutes, and lay them 
in cold water ; when quite cold take them out, dry them, and 
lard them thickly with fine strips of bacon. Put a slice of fat 
bacon in a stewpan with some onions, carrots, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and spices to taste, and a small quan- 
tity of rich stock ; lay the sweetbreads on this, and let them 
gently stew till quite done, basting the top occasionally with 
the liquor. When cooked, strain the liquor, skim off superfluous 
fat, reduce it almost to a glaze, brown the larded side of the 
sweetbreads with a salamander, and serve with sauce over them. 

262. SWEETBREAD (Lamls'S)' — ingredients— Sweetbreads, a 

ladleful of broth, pejyer and salt, a bunch of onions, a blade 

of mace, butter and flour, 2 or 3 eggs, some cream, parsley, 

nutmeg, asparagus-tops. 

Blanch them, and put them a little while into cold water, 

Then put them into a stewpan with a ladleful of broth, some 

pepper and salt, a small bunch of small onions, and a blade of 

mace ; stir in a piece of butter and flour, and stew half an hour. 

Have ready two or three eggs well beaten in cream, with a 

little minced parsley, and a few grates of nutmeg. Put in some 

boiled asparagus-tops to the other things. Don't let it boil 

after the cream is in : but make it hot, and stir it well all the 

while. Take great care it does not curdle. 

263. SIDNEYS (a la Brooliette)- 

Plunge some mutton kidneys in boiling water ; open them 
down the centre, but do not separate them ; peel and pass a 
skewer across them to keep them open, pepper, salt, and dip 



92 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Muiton. 

them into melted butter, broil them over a clear fire on both 
sides, doing the cut side first ; remove the skewers, have ready 
some maitre d'hotel butter, viz., butter beaten up with chopped 
parsley, salt, pepper, and a little lemon juice. Put a small 
piece in the hollow of each kidney, and serve very hot. 

264. SIDNEYS (Fried). 

After plunging in boiling water cut them in thin slices, and 
fry in hot butter ; add pepper, salt, and toss them for a few 
minutes in rich brown gravy. 

265. SIDNEYS (Grilled). 

Prepare them as above, cut each kidney in half, anddipthem 
in egg beaten up with salt and pepper ; breadcrumb them, dip 
them in melted butter, breadcrumb them again, then grill be- 
fore a slow fire ; serve vfxth ptguanie sauce. 

266. SIDNEYS (With Macaroni). 

Cook two ounces of macaroni, broken into convenient pieces, 
in boiling water ; skin two or three mutton kidneys, remove 
the fat, and cut them into thin slices ; season with salt, cayenne, 
and finely-minced herbs ; fry them on both sides in butter, then 
stew them in half a pint of gravy, well flavored with fresh to- 
matoes or with conserve de toinates and a little basil , dish with 
a layer of the macaroni over them, the gravy poured over ; add 
pepper, salt, and some grated Parmesan cheese ; brown with 
salamander. 

207. SIDNEY TOAST- — Ingredients — Some kidneys, butter, 
cayenne, salt, mustard, yolks of 2 ogga, sippets of tl)in toast. 
Partially cook some kidneys in butter ; remove the skin and 
any hard parts, and pound the remainder to a paste, with the 
butter, in a marble mortar. Season with nutmeg, cayenne, 
salt, and a little mustard, and mix with it the yolks of two or 
more eggb, according to the quantity of paste ; spread this on 
sippets of thin toast. Cover the bottom of a dish with the 
liquid butter ; lay on thiy the toasts, brown them in a brisk oven 
and serve quickly. 

268. SIDNEYS (A L'Indi0niie).—Iugredient8— Kidneys, good 
curry powder, yolk of egg, croutons, chutnce sauce, thick 
brown gravy, tomato sauce. 
Prepare kidneys as above, season the paste with some good 
curry powder, and mix with beaten yolks of egg. Fry lightly 
some round croiitons, spread them with the paste, and set 
them in a brisk oven to brown. Serve with chutnee sauce 
poured round them. For the sauce, mince finely some good 
chutnee and mix it with some rich thick brown gravy, flavor- 
ed with tomato sauce. Beef or pork kidneys can be used for 
these toasts, but mutton or veal is better. If veal, cook 
them with some of their own fat instead of butter. 



CURRIEt). 



OBvSERVATIONS ON CURRIES. 

Most people, more especially old Anglo-Indians, have a 
liking for a really good curry ; but how very rarely it is to 
be obtained in America, unless at the house of some one 
who has passed a good many years in India, The dish 
miscalled a curry is frequently set before people, but too 
often ns far as possible removed from the real and appetis- 
ing //iZ/ which a good Indian cook will send to table. The 
meat is tough, has most likely been boiled instead of gently 
simmered, the sauce, or thick gravy, is hot enough in all 
conscience, but it tastes only of curry powder of an inferior 
kind ; the rice is a sloppy mess, and the result is a fiery 
leathery sort of indigestible hash, instead of a sweet, acid, 
highly but agreeably flavored, perfectly cooked and di- 
gestible dish, fit to set before a prince. It is said, how- 
ever, that, even in India, the art of curry-making is declin- 
ing, that the cunning secrets of curry powder and curry 
paste mixing are, to a certain extent, lost, from the fact that 
curry is no longer so fashionable as it once was, and is 
much more rarely seen on the table. The mere cooking of 
a curry is not the difficult part of it, though that requires 
to be understood. Any cook, of whatever nationality, 
who has really mastered the art of stewing properly, that is 
very gently and slowly, can cook a curry ; the real diffi- 
culties lie in procuring good curry powder or curry paste. 



260. CURRIED OYSTERS— Ingredients— 50 large oysters, a 

lump of fresli butter, a small onion, a tablespoonful of curry 

po\*der, broth, or hot water, ^ a cocoanut, ^ a sour apple, 

flour, salt, i a vegetable marrow, a tomato, the juice of ^ a 

lemon. 

Take the oysters with their liquor, in a basin. Slice the 

onion and fry in butter until of a rich brown, put in large 

stewpan, then add a little more butter and the curry powder; 

mix well with a wooden spoon. Add gradually broth or hot 

water, nearly lilling the stewpan. Allow the whole to boil, 

n ' 



1)4 MRS. Clarke's cookery huox.. Cujiries. 



Grate the cocoanut, chop the apple, and add these to the other 
ingredients. Allow to simnier until the cocoanut is very 
tender. Make a thickening of flour and water (about a cupful); 
sprinkle a littie ^alt in it. Put this? in the stewpan also and 
allow it to boil 1 ve minutes. Having boiled the vegetable 
marrow until tender, cut into pieces, put thi-< with the tomato 
the oysters, their liquor, and milk of cocoanut to the former in- 
gredients. Allow to stew for a few minutes and lastly put in 
the juice of the lemon. As soon as the oysters are done, serve 
with a corresponding dish of rice. The curry must be kept 
well-stirred. 

270. OURRY POWXER. —Ingredients— 1 Ih pale turmeric seed, 

i lb. of cumin seed, J lb. of black pepper, ^ lb. of coriander 
seed, 2 oz. of cayenne pepper, J lb. Jamaica ginger, 10 oza. of 
caraway seed, J oz. of cardamines. 

Take care to purchase these ingredients of a first-class 
druggist. Additional heat can be obtained by those who like 
very hot curries, if red Chili powder be added to the abov^e 
ingredients, according to taste. Mix together all these in- 
jj^edients well powdered, and place before the fire or in the 
sun, stirring occasionally. Keep in well corked bottles. N. B. 
— This will be found very good. 

271. I2TDIA2T 07RR7- — Ingredients— 2 large tablespoonsful of 

curry powder, a dessert spoonful of salt, the same of black 
pepper, 4 onions, J lb. of butter, IJ lbs. of meat, J pint of 
milk, lemon juice or Chili vinegar. 

Two large tablespoonsful of curry powder, a dessert spoon- 
ful of salt, the same of black pepper. P>y and chop very fine 
four onions, then moisten the curry powder with water, and 
put it in a stewpan, with all the above ingredients, and a quar- 
ter of a pound of butter. Let it stew for twenty minutes, stirring 
all the time to prevent burning, then add one and a half pounds 
of cold or fresh meat, or any fowl or rabbit, cut into short 
thick pieces, without fat, add half a pint of milk or good stock 
to make the curry thick. Boil all up at once, and let it stew 
gently for three or four hours. When ready add lemon juice 
or Chili vinegar. 

272. OTJRRIBD RABBIT- — Ingredients- 1 rabbit, J lb. of but- 

ter, 1 apple, 2 onions, 2 tablespoonsful of curry powder, ^ of a 

pint of cream, 1 pint of stock, 1 lemon, a salt spoonful of 

salt. 

Melt the butter over the fire, peel and chop the onions as 

finely as possible, then put them into the melted butter to fry 

a light brown. After the rabbit has been properly prepared 

for cooking, wash well and dry in a cloth, cut in pieces of equal 

size. Mier straining the butter from the onions, return the 



Cl'kriks. mhs. Clarke's cookery book of 



former to the stewpan, put in pieces of rabbit, and allow to fry 
for ten or fifteen minutes, turning occasionally. Peel and core 
the apple, and chop as finely as possible. When the meat is 
done add to it two tablespoonsful of curry powder, the salt, 
stirring for five minutes, then add the fried onion, chopped 
apple and a pint of good stock. Allow to simmer for two 
hours, at the end of the time add the cream, squeeze the juice 
from the lemon into the stewpan. It is then ready to serve. 
N. B. — Veal or chicken can be used, if preferred. 

-78. 0T7XII17 OP MTTTTOIT. -Ingredients— Mutton, 1 onion, 

baiter the size of an egg, curry powder, a little salt, a cup 

of cream. 

Slice a medium-sized onion, and put it with a large lump of 

butter in a saucepan ; let it cook slowly for five minutes. Cut 

the mutton in neat pieces ; sprinkle curry powder over them, 

al'io a litttle salt, and just before putting in the saucepan pour 

a part of a cup of sweet cream over them. Let this all simmer 

gently for half an hour, so that the ingredients will become 

thoroughly mixed. 

274. A DRY MALA? OUPkRY.— Ingredients— A cauliflower, 

2 onions, a sour apple, a pint of shrimps, slices of cold mut- 
ton, 2 ozs. of butter, a large tablespoonful of curry powder, 
a lemon, a small teaspoonful of salt. 
Pick a cauliflower into small pieces and well wash them ; 
chop two onions and one sour apple, pick a pint of fresh boiled 
shrimps, cut some slices of cold mutton about half an inch 
thick, knead two ounces of butter with a large tablespoonful of 
curry powder, and a small teaspoonful of salt. Put the butter, 
onions and apple into a stewpan, and fry till biown, then add 
the cauliflower and shrimps. Shake the saucepan frequently, 
and let it simmer for an hour and a halt, adding the slices of 
mutton towards the end of the time, that they may be heated 
through. Finally, add the juice of a lemon. Place the slices 
of mutton round the dish with the cauliflower, &c., in the 
middle. Serve very hot, with a separate dish of boiled rice. 

275. OXTRRIBD LOBSTER— Ingredients— Lobster, cream, rice. 
Take the flesh of a lobster (or a tin of lobster does very well 

for this dish), make curry gravy with plenty of cream ; pour 
into a saucepan with the lobster, warm it just to boiling point ; 
serve with rice round. 

277. A TURKISH DISH.— Ingredients- 6 oz. of East India 

rice, a pint of water, 1 oz. of butter, salt, pepper, i pint of 

broth. 

Wash well six ounces of East India rice, and boil it in a pant 

of water for eight or ten minutes at the most, throw into a 

cullender, that it may thoroughly drain. Then place it in a 

atewp^n with an ounce of butter, saU a«d pepper to taste, stir- 



96 MRS. CLARKE'S COOKERY BOOK. CURRIES. 

ring well, and adding by degrees about half a pint of good 
fowl broth. After about fifteen minutes or so it should be 
properly done, turning out with the grains separately. It is to 
be served perfectly hot. The foregoing is a true pillau, but 
additions may be made of portions of the meat of the fowl, or 
of any other animal matter, of a little curry powder, ofchutnee, 
fried onions, or mushrooms. 

278. BOILED RICE FOR OURRT.— Ingredients— Ri«c, lemon. 
Put the rice on the stove in cold water, and allow it to come 

to a boil for a minute or two. Strain, dry and put in stewpan 
without lid at the back of the stove, to allow the steam to 
evaporate ; shake into dish very hot ; a few drops of lemon 
juice put in directly after it boils will make the grains separate 
better. 

279. CURRIED EGGS— Ingrcdiente— 6 eggs, 2 onions, butter, 

a tablespooiiful of curry powrler, 1 pint of broth, a cup of 
cream, arrowroot. 

Slice the onions and fry in butter a light brown, add curry 
powder, and mix with the broth, allowing to simmer till tender; 
then put in cream, and thicken with arrowroot ; simmer for 
five minutes, then add 6 hard boiled eggs, cut in slices. 

280. CURRIED BEEP- —Tngredionts— Beef, 2 oz. of butter, 2 

onions, a tablcspootiful of curry powder, ^ pint of milk, 
lemon juice. 

Slice the onions and fry in butter a light brown, mix well 
with the curry powder, adding the beef, cut into small pieces 
about an inch square, pour in milk and allow to simmer for 
thirty minutes, stirring frequently ; when done add lemon 
juice. It greatly improves the dish to build a wall of mashed 
potatoes or boiled rice round it. 

281. CURRT- — Ingredients— Scraps of cold meat, 1 apple, 1 

onion, '2 ov. of clarified dripping, 1 dessertspoonful of curry 
powder, Bait. 

Put the dripping into a stewpan on the fire to heat, chop the 
onion as finely as possible, and when the dripping is hot put in 
the onion to brown (do not allow it to burn), cut the meat into 
small pieces, peel and core the apple, and chop finely. When 
the onion is brown strain it ofTand put the dripping back into 
the saucepan; put pieces of meat into the saucepan and 
brown them both sides ; add the curry powder, apple and a 
little salt ; pour in half pint of cold water, and return the 
browned onion to the saucepan, stir until it boils, then move 
to the back of the stove and allow to simmer half an hour. 
When done take it out and place on a hot dish, and pour th^ 
tauce over it. 



Curries. mus. ci./Trke's cookery book. py 



282. OTTRRIBD TRIPS.— Ingredients— 1 lb. of tripe, J lb. of 

I'atua lice, 1 onion, flour, sugar, and curry powder. 

Put the tripe into a saucepan of cold water, and let it boil 
up ; immediately it boils, take it out of the water (this is 
called blanching). After this operation, scrape with a knife 
to thoroughly cleanse it. Cut up into small pieces, and lay in 
a saucepan, pouring sufficient cold water to cover the tripe. 
Peel the onion and cut it partially through. Add this to the 
tripe. Put the saucepan on the fire, and bring to a boil, then 
remove to the back of the stove, and allow to simmer for 2/2 
hours. Then dish the tripe. Into a small saucepan put one oz. 
of flour, a dessertspoonful of curry powder and a half oz. ol 
dripping, and mix well with a wooden spoon. Make into a 
stiff paste with cold water. Add half pt. of the liquor in which 
the tripe was boiled. Put on the fire, and stir the mixture 
until it thickens (take care there are no lumps). To this add a 
quarter of a teaspoooful of brown sugarand salt according to taste. 
Then put on one side to get cool. Cut into shreds the onion 
ihat was boiled with the tripe, and add it to the sauce. As 
soon as the sauce is a little cool put in the tripe, and let it 
warm through. Heat a dish and pour the tripe and sauce 
upon it ; keep it in the centre of the dish. Wash the rice and 
put it in a saucepanful of boiling water. Add a saltspoonful of 
salt. Allow to boil for 15 or 20 minutes. When done strain 
and pour cold water upon it. Return the rice to the empty 
saucepan, stand on back of stove to dry the rice. When per- 
fectly dry arrange it on the dish round the tripe. 

283. POTATO OURRT (1).— Ingredients— One onion, potatoes, 

butter, 1 pt. of stock, a tablespoonful of curry powder, a 
little milk from a cocoanut, a tomato, a small vegetable 
marrow, lemon juice, rice. 

Cut an onion into thin slices ; wash, pare, and filice some 
good sound potatoes, fry slightly in butter, and then simmer 
them slowly for some hours in one pint of stock, in which one 
tablespoonful of curry powder has been mixed, add a little 
milk from the cocoanut — when procurable, a tomato, a small 
vegetable marrow boiled and sliced ; simmer all together a few 
minutes longer, add a dash of lemon juice, and serve garnished 
with thin strips of fried onion, and with boiled rice in a 
separate dish. 

284. POTATO 0T7RIRY (2).— Ingredients— Cold potatoes, onion, 

salt and pepper, curry powder to taste, egg, and bread 
crumbs, gravy. 

Mash cold potatoes with minced onion, salt, pepper, and 
curry powder to taste ; form into small balls with egg and bread 

G 



98 MRS. CLAKKE's COO.CERY BOOK. CURRIES- 

crumbs, fry crisp, serve with rich gravy flavored with carry 
powder. 

285. POTATO OUHET (3). — Ingredieuta — Raw potatoes, onions, 
butter, curry powder, a little stock, cicam, lemon juice. 

Fry some sliced raw potatoes and onions slightly in butter 
with a little curry powder, then simmer until done in a very 
little stock, add some cream, butter, and lemon juice before 
serving. 

280, (POTATO OUEIRT (4).— lugredients— Curry powder, mashed 
potatoes, milk. 

Put a good pinch of curry powder in mashed potatoes, al- 
lowing rather more butter and milk than usual. This last is a 
delicious accompaniment to cutlets. 

287. OUHRY (Dry).— Ingredients— A few onions, i lb. of butter, 
Ih lbs. of steak, a little flour and curry powder, salt to taste, 
juice of 1 lemon. 

Slice up a good-sized onion, and fry it a golden color in a 
quarter of a pound of butter ; cut up one and a half pounds of 
fresh steak into pieces the size of dice. Dredge them well 
with flour and carry powder, add a little salt, and squeeze the 
juice of a lemon over them, then fry them lightly in the butter 
in which the onions had been previously cooked. Add all to- 
gether, aod stew gently in .1 saucepan for a quarter of an hour. 



GRAVIES. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS RESPECTING GRAVIFS. 

Gravy may be made quite as f,ood of the skirts of beef, 
and the kidney, as of any other meat, prepared in the same 
way. 

An ox-kidney, or milt, makes good gravy, cut all to 
pieces, and prepared as other meat ; and so will the shank 
end of mutton that has been dressed, if much be not 
wanted. 

The shank-bones of mutton are a great improvement to 
the richness of gravy ; but first soak them well, and scour 
them clean. 

Parragon gives the flavor of French cookery, and in 
high gravies is a great improvement ; but it should be 
added only a short time before serving. 



288. A aOOD SEEF aRAVY (for Poultry or Same).- 

Ingredienta— i lb. of Icau beef, ^ a piut of coul water, 1 small 
onion, a saltspoonful of salt, a little pepper, a tablespoouful 
of mualiroom catchup or Harvey's sauce, ^ a teaspoouful of 
arrowroot. 

Cut the beef into small pieces and put it and the water into a 
stewpan. Add the onion and seasoning, and simmer gently 
for three hours. A short time before it is required, mix the 
arrowroot with a little cold water, pour into the gravy, while 
stirring, add the Harvey's sauce and allow it just to come to 
the boil. Strain into a tureen and serve very hot. 

289. SAVOEY GRAVY (Thiols).— Ingredients - 1 onion, 

butter, a tablespoouful of flour, ^ pint of broth cr stock, 
pepper and salt, a small quantity of Worcester sauce. 

Mince one onion fine, fry it in butter to a dark brown, and 
stir in a lablespoonful of flour. After ons minute add half a 
pint of broth or stock, pepper and salt, and a very small quan- 
tity of Worcester sauce. 

290. GRAVY FOR ROAST MEAT.— Ingredienta-Gravy, salt. 

Put a kitchen dish with a sprinkling of salt in it beneath the 
meat about twenty minutes before it is removed from the oven. 

99 



to6 MRS. cLarke*s cookerV rook. Gravies. 



Then remove, baste the meat, and pour the gravy oe the dish 
intended for serving the joint upon. 

291. Q-RAVT FOR VEFISON.— Ingredients— Remnants of 

venison, 4 mutton shank bones, a little salt, 2 glasses of 
water, 1 dessertspoonful of walnut catchup. 

Brown the venison over a clear fire, and put this with the 
shank bones and water into a stewpan and allow it to boil very 
gently for about two hours. Strain and add the catchup and 
a sprinkling of salt. Serve very hot. 

292. STEOITG- PISH GRAVY-— Ingredients— 2 or 3 eels, crust 

of toasted bread, 2 blades of mace, some whole pepper, sweet 
herbs, a piece of lemon peel, an anchovy, a teaspoonful of 
horse radish. 

Skin two or three eels, and wash them very clean ; cut them 
into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan. Cover ihem 
with water, and add a little crust of bread toasted brown, two 
blades of mace, some whole pepper, sweet herbs, a piece of 
lemon peel, an anchovy or two, and a teaspoonful or two of 
horse-radish. Cover close, and simmer; add a piece of butter 
and flour, and boil with the above. 

293. PLAIIT GRAVY.— Ingredients — An onion, a little butter, 

f pint of stock, pepper and salt, a small piece of lean ham or 
bacon, a dessertspoonful of Worcester sauce, a sprig of 
parsley and thyme. 

Mince an onion finely, fry it in butter lo a dark brown color, 
then add three-quarters of a pmt of stock, pepper and salt to 
taste, a small piece of lean ham or bctcon minced small, a little 
Worcester sauce, a sprig of thyme and one of parsley. Let it 
boil five or ten minutes, put it by till wanted, and strain it be- 
fore serving. 

294. GRAVY FOR HASHES -Ingredients— Remanants and 

bones of the joint intended for hashing, a pinch of salt and 
pepper, J teaspoonful of whole allspice, a bunch of savory 
herbs, a saltspoonful of celery salt or J a head of celiTy, an 
onion, a small piece of butter, a little corn flour, and boiling 
water. 

Put the bones (having previously chopped them), with the 
remnants of meat, salt, pepper, spice, herbs and celery into a 
stewpan. Cover with boiling water and allow it to simmer for 
two hours. Cut up the onion in neat slices and fry in butter a 
pale brown. Then mix slowly with the gravy from bones. 
Boil fifteen minutes, strain, then return to stewpan, flav with 
catchup or any flavoring that m?'/ be preferred. 7 :ken 
with butter and flour and just allow it to come to ' boil. 
Serve very hot. 



Gravies, mrs. clarke's cookery book. loi 

295. anAVT FOB A FOWL C^hen there Is no meat to make 

it from). — Ingredients — The feet, liver, gizzards and neck of 
the fowl, a little browned bread, a slice of onion, a sprig 
of parsley and thyme, some pepper and salt, a teaspoonful 
of mushroom catchup, a little flour and butter. 

Wash the feet nicely, and cut them and the neck small ; 
simmer them with a litde bread browned, a slice of onion, a 
sprig of parsley and thyme, some pepper and salt, and the liver 
and gizzards, in a quarter of a pint cf water, till half wasted. 
Take out the liver, bruise it, aud strain the liquor to it. Then 
thicken it with flour and butter, and add a teaspoonful of 
mushroom catchup, and it will be very good. 

296. VEAL Q-Ili..Tnr- — Ingredients — Bones, any cold remnants 

of veal, 1^ pints of water, an onion, asaltspoonful of minced 
lemon peel, a little salt, a blade of mace, a few drops of the 
juice of the lemon, butter and flour. 

Place all the ingredients (excepting the lemon juice and 
flour) into a stewpan and allow them to simmer for one hour. 
Strain into a basin. Add a thickening of butter and flour 
mixed with a little water, also the lemon juice. Give one boil 
and serve very hot. Flavor with tomato sauce or catchup. 

297. COLORING FOR SOUPS OR GRAVIES. 

Put four ounces o' lump sugar, a gill of water, and half an 
ounce of the finest butter into a small tosser, and set it over a 
gentle fire. Stir it with a wooden spoon, till of a bright 
brown. Then add half a pint of water ; boil, skim, and when 
cold, bottle and cork it close. Add to soup or gravy as much 
of this as will give a proper color. 



SAUCES. 



OBSERVATIONS ON SAUCES. 

The appearance and preparation of sauces are of the 
highest importance. Brov/n sauces should not be as thick 
as white ones, and both should possess a decided charac- 
ter, so that whether sweet or sharp, plain or savory, they 
would bear out their names. Care is also to be taken that 
they blend and harmonize with the various dishes they are 
to accompany. 

298. TJ7H1TE SAUCE- — Ingredients — 1 pint of milk, 2 or 3 mush- 

rooms, 1 onion, 1 carrot, 1 bundle of sweet herbs, whole 
pepper and salt to taste, a few cloves, a little mace, 1 oz. of 
butter, and 1 gill of cream. 

Put into one pint of milk two or three mushrooms, an 
onion and a carrot cut into pieces, a bundle of sweet herbs, 
whole pepper and Fait to taste, a few cloves, and a little mace ; 
let the whole gently simmer for about an hour, put an ounce 
of butter into a saucepan, and stir on the fire until it thickens. 
Finish by stirring in a gill of cream. 

299. WHITE SATTOE (7elonte)-Ingredients-A fowl, lib. of 

lean veal 1 onion, 5 oz. of butter, white stock, a carrot, a 
bundle of sweet herbs, some whole pepper, a pinch of sugar, 
2 oz. of flour. 

Take a fowl, cut up into small joints, and one pound of lean 
veal cut into small dice, put both into a saucepan with an 
onion sliced, an ounce of butter, and a cupful of wliite stock ; 
keep tossing on the fire for half an hour, taking care that none 
of the contents take color ; then add as much white stock as 
will well cover them, together with a carrot cut into small 
pieces, a bundle of sweet herbs, some whole pepper, and a 
pinch of sugar, and let the whole gently simmer for a couple 
of hours or more. Melt quarter pound of fresh butter in a 
saucepan, and amalgamate two ounces of flour with it with- 
out letting the mixture take any color ; strain the above li- 
quor gradually into it ; set the saucepan at the edge of the 
(ire to simr.ier for an hour and a half, skimming the contents 
carefully from time to time. Lastly, turn out the sauce into a 
basin, keeping it stirred till wanted, or cold. This sauce will 



Sauces. mrs. clarke's cookery book. 103 



keep several days in a good larder, but it must be warmed ur 
every day. 

300. WBITB SATTOB (Suprome)— Ingredients— A punnet of 

fresh mnshroom, Bome trufllo trimmings. ^ pint of white 
stock, a little more than a pint of velonte, 1 tablespoonful of 
cream, and a small pat of fresh butter. 

Boil a punnet of fresh mushroom and some truffle trim- 
mings in half a pint of white stocl< for a quarter of an hour ; 
strain the liquor, and add to it rather more than a pint of 
velontd, letthe whole simmer for about twenty minutes, skim- 
ming occasionally. At the time of serving stir in one table- 
spoonful of cream and a small pat of butter. 

301. "W^ITE SAUCE (Allemande). 

Proceed as for supreme, adding a little grated nutmeg to the 
stock in which the mushrooms were boiled. Finish the sauce 
by stirring into it, off the fire, the yolks of two eggs beaten up 
with a little cold stock and strained. 

302. LIVER SAUCE • — Ingredients— Li vers of any kind of 

poultry, butt'^r, flour, minced shallots, gravy stock, a small 
pinch of sweet herbs, and pepper, spices, and salt to taste, 
a glass of port wine, juice of i^ a lemon. 

Take the livers of any kind ot poultry, rabbits, or hares ; 
scald them and mince them finely. Melt a piece of butter in 
a saucepan, add a little flour to it and a small quantity of 
mineed shallots. Let the whole fry for a minute or two, then 
add gravy stock in sufficient quantity to make a sauce, and a 
small pmch of powdered sweet herbs and pepper, spices and 
salt to taste. Put in the minced livers and a glass of port 
wine. Let the sauce boil for twenty minutes, and at the time 
of serving add a small piece of fresh butter and the juice of 
half emon. 

303. PEITITEL SAUCE-— Ingredients— Fennel, 3 oz. of butter, 

rather more than a taWespoonful of flour, pepper and salt to 
taste, yolks of 2 eggs, juice of 1 Lemon. 

Blanch a small quantity in boiling salted water, take it out, 
dry it in a cloth, and chop it finely ; melt three oz. of fresh but- 
ter, add rather more than a tablespoonful of flour, mix well, and 
put in pepper and salt to taste, and about a pint of hot water ; 
stir on the fire till the sauce thickens, then stir in the yolks of 
two eggs beaten up with the juice orf a lemon and strained. 
Add plenty of the chopped fennel, and serve. 

304. SHRIMP SAUCE- — Ingredients— J pt. of shrimps, juice of 

half a lemon, butter, a dust of cayenne. 

Take half a pint of shrimps, pick out all the meat from jhe 
tails, pound the rest in a mortar with the juice of half a lemon 



I ©4 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Sauces. 

and a piece of butter ; pass the whole through a sieve. Make 
a pint of melted butter," put the meat from the tails into it, add 
,1 dust of cayenne, and when the sauce boils stir into it the 
shrimp butter that has come through the sieve, with or without 
a tablespoonful of cream. 

305. 'W'llTB SATJOB- — Ingredients— 1 tablespoonful of potato 

Hour, '.i gills of hherry, yolks of 4 eggs, some powdered white 
sugar, cinnamon, lemon peel. 

Mix a tablespoonful of potato flour with a gill of sherry ; beat 
I p another gill of sherry with the yolks of four eggs; mix the 
two together, add powdered white sugar, powdered cinnamon, 
grated lemon peel to taste, and a third gill of sherry. Put the 
whole in a saucepan, and keep stirring on the fire till the 
sauce thickens, when it is ready. 

306. MANGO OHTJTNET SAUCE (Boncral Recipe). -Ingred- 

ients— jib. of garlic, 1 Jj lbs. of brown sugar, Jib. of salt, 2 
])ottle8 of the best vinegar, :[lb. of onions, ^Ib. of dried chilies, 
fib of mnstai'd seed, |lb. of stoned raisins, 2h doz. large unripe 
sour anodes, fib. of powdei-ed ginger. 

Reduce the sugar to a syrup. Pound the onions, garlic and 
ginger finely in a mortar ; wash the mustard seed in cold vine- 
gar, and allow to dry in the sun ; peel, core and slice the apples, 
then boil them in a bottle and a half of vinegar. When this 
has been done, and the apples are quite ccol, put them into a 
good sized pan. and mix the whole of the remaining ingredients 
(as well as the other half bottle of vinegar) gradually. Stir 
well until all are thoroughly mixed, and then put into bottles 
until wanted. Tie wet bladder over the bottles after they have 
been corked. This is a delicious chutney and has been well 
tried and proved. 

307. EGa SATJOB. 

Boil the eggs hard and cut them into small pieces ; then put 
them to melted butter. 

308. GOVERITOR'S SATJCE (A Canadian Recipe).— Ingredi- 

ents — 1 peck of green tomatoes, a cupful of salt, vinegar, 6 
green or red chilies, a teacupful of brown sugar, 1 of scraped 
horse radish, a tablespoonful eacli of cloves and allspice, a 
teaspoonful each of red and white pepper, 4 large onions. 
Slice a peck of green tomatoes, sprinkle them with a cupful 
of salt, and let them stand a night ; in the morning pour off 
the liquor, and put them into a saucepan with vinegar enough 
to cover them. Add six green or red chilies, four large onions 
chopped fine, a teactipful of brown sugar, one of scraped horse- 
radish, a tablespoonful each of cloves and allspice, and a tea- 
spoonful each of red and white pepper. Let it simmer till 
soft, put into jars and keep it air-tight. 



Sauces. mrs, clarke's cookery book. 105 



309. OAULITLOWBIl SAUOB-— Ingredienta-Two small cauli- 

flowers, li oz. of butter, 1 tablespoonful of flour, ^ pint of 

boilmg water, pepper and salt to taate, yolks of 2 eggs, juice 

of a lemon. 

Boil two small cauliflowers ; when done, pick them out into 

sprigs and arrange them, head downwards, in a pudding basin, 

which must have been made quite hot ; press them in gently, 

then turn them out dexterously on a dish, and pour over them 

the following sauce, boiling hot : Melt one and a half ounces 

of butter in a saucepan, mix with it a tablespoonful of flour, 

and then add half a p'nt of boiling water ; stir till it thickens ; 

add salt and white pepper to taste ; then take the saucepan off 

the fire, and stir in the yolks of two egfts beaten up with the 

juice of a lemon and strained. 

310. MT7SSE00M SAUOB— ingredients — A punnet of mush- 

rooms, 3 shallots, 2 or 3 sprigs of parsley, gravy stock, pep- 
per and salt to tMt«, a small piece of butter, flour. 

Pick clean a punnet of mushrooms, put them into a saucepan 
with three shallots chopped up, and two or three sprigs of 
parsley, cover up with gravy stock, add pepper and salt to taste, 
and let the whole boil for a couple of hours. Strain the liquor, 
passing the mushrooms, etc., through a hair sieve. Melt a 
piece of butter in a saucepan, add a little flour, mfx well, then 
add the above. 

311. ST7T0S SAT70B- — Ingredients— 3 tablespoonsful of vinegar, 

1 lb. of butter, yolks of 2 eggs, pepper and salt to taste. 

Put three tablespoonsful of vinegar in a saucepan, and re- 
duce it on the fire to one-third ; add a qi'arter of a pound of 
butter and the yolks of two eggs. Place the saucepan on a 
slow fire, stir the contents continuously, and as fast as the but- 
ter melts add more, until one pound is used. If the sauce be- 
bomes too thick at any time during the process, add a table- 
spoonful of cold water and continue stirring. Tlien put in 
pepper and salt to taste, and take great care not to let the 
sauce boil. When it is made — that is, when all the butter is 
used and the sauce is of the proper thickness — put the sauce- 
pan containing it into another filled with warm (not boiling) 
water until the time of serving. 

312. FIQT7A1TTX SAUOE (without Effflrs). 

(i)Melt one ox. of butter, and add gradually two tablespoonsful 
of white wine vinegar, a shalot and a litle parsley chopped very 
fine, pepper and salt ; stir over the fire till it boils. (2) Chop 
up some herbs — thyme parsley, tarragon, chervil, and a chalot 
(about a tablespoonful in all) — and put them into a saucepan 
with one and a half gills of vinegar ; reduce to one gill ; add 
halfpint of broth, strain, thicken vdth ar<7».rof half 02. of butter 



io6 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Sauces. 

and half oz. of flour ; boil up tlie sauce, Btirrinpf all the time, add 
a few chopped herbs, pepper and salt, and serve. (3) The 
following is taken from " Round the Table:" "Fry some 
slices of chalnts, or onions, till they asFume a light brown 
color (taking care by frequent stirring that they do not get 
burnt or done too much) ; add a small piece of garlic, some 
sweet herbs, and a mixture of equal parts of vinegar and water 
(or of vinegar and broth), strain and let the whole boil, then 
stir this mixture into a saucepan containing butter and flour, 
as for prepared plp'n melted butter; add pepper, salt, some 
minced parsley, anci chopped gherkins. 

313. AITOHOTT SATTOB— Ingredients— About ^ oz. of butter, 

yolk of 1 fresh egg, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, cay- 
enne pepper and salt to taste, squares of freshly brOM'ucd 
toast. 
Heat a dinner-plate until it will melt half an ounce of butter 
placed on it ; take the yolk of a fresh egg, beat it with a fork 
into the butter, add a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, cayenne 
pepper and salt to taste. Have ready some freshly-browned 
squares of toast, dip them into the mixture, covering bothsides, 
and serve at once. 

314. Q-RILL SATJOB-— Ingredients— 1 gill of good gravy, 1 tablc- 

spoonful of mus<hroom catchup, 1 of French mustard, a fev* 
chopped capers, a little grated lemon peel, butter, flour, a few 
drops of lemon juice. 

Take one gill of good gravy, mix with it one tablespoonful of 
mushroom catchup, one of French mustard, a few chopped 
capers, a little grated lemon peel ; add a thickening of butter 
and flour and a few drops of lemon juice, simmer till quite hot, 
and nour over the grill, and serve. Legs of chicken and game 
maybe treated in the same way, but in making the sauce sub- 
stitute a tablespoonful of chutney for the chopped capers, and 
instead of lemon juice add a small quantity of Chili vinegar. 

315. MIITT SAUOS!> — Ingredients — A quantity of mint leaves, 

equal quantities of wine-vinegar and water, and a small por- 
tion of sugar. 

Chop as finely as possible a qu.intity of mint leaves previ- 
ously washed ; add to these sufficient wine-vinegar and water, 
in equal parts, to float them, and a small quantity of powdered 
sugar. Let the sauce stand for an hour before serving. 

316. S^TEET SA^OE— Ingredients — 1 tablespoonful of flcur, 4 

tablespoonsful of water, ^ pint of boiling water, sugar or 
treacle to taste, 1 oz. of butter, 1 tablespoonful of lemon 
juice. 
Mix a tablespoonful of flour quite smooth in four tablespoons- 
ful of water, then stir into it half a pint of boiling water, sugf>r 



Sauces. mrs. Clarke's cookery book. 107 



or treacle to taste ; stir over the fire until the sauce boils, 
when, if allowed, an ounce of butter may be added, with a 
tpblespoonful of lemon juice. When sweetened with sugar, a 
little nutmeg or ground cinnamon may be used instt d of 
lemon juice, if preferred. A tablespoonfiil of raspberry jam or 
any fruit syrup may be usi_d to flavor the sauce, and is gener- 
ally much liked. 

;517. REMOXTL^DE S^TTOE -Ingredients— Chervil, cliivca, cap- 
ers, piualcy, cress, and a little slialot, a little French miLstard, 
tlic yolks of two raw eggs, pepper aud salt, olivo oil, a little 
Chili vinegar. 
Chop some chervil, chives, capers, parsley, cress, and a 
little slialot; pound them in a mortar, add a little French 
mustard, the yolks of two raw eggs, season with pepper and 
salt ; add, drop by drop, good olive oil, in the proportion of 
two tabIe.:poonsful to each egg: beat up the mi>'ure, and when 
quite smooth add a little chili vinegar. 

31 s. HOESE HADISH SAT70E. 

One teaspoonful of made mustard, one tablcspoonful of 
vinegar, three tablespoonsful of cream, a little salt, as much 
horseradish grated as will make it as thick as cream. 

:nO. MAYONNAISE SATJOB.-In^Tcdicnts-The yolks of 4 

eggs, €a teaspoonful of salt, salad oil, tarragon vinegar, white 

pepper. 

Carefully strain the yolks of four eggs into a basin, place it 

in a cool place, or, if necessary, on ice ; add a teaspoonful of 

salt, mix well ; then proceed to pour in, a few drops at a time, 

some salad oil, without ceasing to stir the mixture. When 

one spoonful of oil is well incorporated with the yolks of the 

eggs, put in, in the same manner, a teaspoonful of tarragon 

vinegar ; keep on adding oil and virwegar in these proportions 

until the sauce becomes of the consistency of very thick 

cream ; then add white pepper to taste, and more salt if 

necessary. 

320. POOH MAN'S SAUCE —Ingredients— ^ good sizod onion, 
Initter, ^ pint of common stock or water, a little vinegar, a 
little minced parslcj', pepper and sa't to taste, a tablespoon- 
fiil of ilour. 
Mince a good-sized onion, not too finely, put it into a sauce- 
pan with a piece of butter equal to it in bulk. Fry till the 
onion assumes alight brown color, add half a pint of common 
stock or water and a small quantity of vinegar, pepper and 
salt to taste, and some minced parsley ; then stir the sauce 
into another saucepan, in which a tablespoonful of flour and a 
small piece of butter have been mixed, over the fire. Let the 
Baucj boil up, and it is ready. 



io8 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Sauces. 



321. BRO^TN SATTOB (GonOVOlse).— Ingrrdienta — l onion, 

small piecu of garlic, 1 oz" of butter, a tnmhlerful of claret, 
a bunch of sweet herbs, whole pepper, 2 tuiublersful of 
gravy stock, a tablespoon ful of flour, the flesh of 2 or 3 an- 
chovies. 

Put into a saucepan one onion finely minced, a small piece 
of garlic, and one ounce of butter ; when the onion begins to 
color add a tumblerful of claret, a faggot of sweet herbs, and 
some whole pepper. Let the whole boil fifteen minutes, 
strain and add two tumblersful of gravy stock. Melt an ounce 
of butter in a saucepan, add a tablespoonful of flour ; when it 
begins to color add the sauce, stir it, and skim it well, as it 
gently simmers, for five or ten minutes. Take the flesh of two 
or three anchovies, pound it in a mortar with half an ounce of 
butter, pass the whole through a fine sieve, and stir it into the 
sauce at the last moment. 

322. A CHEAP BRO'WIT SATJOB.— ingredients- 1 pint of 

brown stock, IJoz. of flour, 2 oz. butter, 4 mushrooms, salt 
and pepper. 

Put the butter into a stewpan and put it on the fire to melt ; 
wash the mushrooms in cold water, cut off the stalks and 
peel them ; when the butter is melted stir in the flour and mix 
to a smooth paste ; then add the stock and mushrooms, and 
stir the sauce smoothly until it boils and thickens; then re- 
move the stewpan to the back of the stove, and let it simmer 
gently for eight or ten minutes ; season with pepper and salt ; 
be careful to skim off the butter as it rises to the top of the 
sauce. Should the sauce be not brown enough, a teaspoonful 
of caramel might be stirred into it ; strain and serve. 

323. ORAlTBEPyllY SATTOE -Ingredients— 1 qt. of ripe cran- 

berries, granulated sugar, a teacupful of water. 

Wash the berries, and carefully pick them, then put them 
into a stewpan with the above quantity of water ; allow them 
to stew very slowly, stirring occasionally. They require about 
an hour and a half lo cook ; when done sweeten with sugar, 
put into a mould, and when cold it is ready to serve. 

324. FEAOn SA70E- — Ingredients — Peaches, water, sugar. 
Take a quart of dried peaches and soak in water four hours, 

wash them, drain, and put in saucepan with enough water 
to cover them ; when they break in pieces, pulp them, and 
sweeten to taste with white sugar. 

325. PLTJM PXTDDIITQ- SATJOE— Ingredients -l glass brandy, 

1 glass Maderia, 2 oz. butter, pounded sugar to taste. 

Put the sugar into a basin with part Oi' the brandy and but- 
ter, stand this in front of the stove until warm, and the butter 



Svucfis. MRS. Clarke's cookery booic, to^ 



and sugar are melted ; tnen add the Maderia and remainder of 
brandy. Pour over pudding, or serve in a sauce boat. 

3'2G. OITIOIT SAT70& (Brown)— I"Kre'lient8— 2 oz. of butter, 
rather more than i a pint of rich gravy, 6 large onions, pep- 
per and salt to taste. 
Put into your stewpan, the onions, sliced, fry them of a 
light brown color, with the two ounces of butter ; keep them 
stirred well to prevent thern turning black ; as soon as they 
are of a nice color, pour over the gravy, and simmer gently 
until tender ; skim off all fat, add seasoning and rub the 
whole through a sieve ; then put in a saucepan and when it 
boils, serve. If a high flavor is wanted a small quantity of 
port wine or mushroom catchup may be added. 

<'-27. E0T7Z (Bro7rn,atMclso&ingforsoupd and gravies).— 

Ingredients — G oz. of butter, 9 oz. of flour. 
Melt the butter slowly over tlie fire, and dredge in very slowly 
the flour, stirring all the time, and when it turns a light brown 
color it is done, and can be put aside into a jar ready for use. 
It will keep good for some time. 

,T2S. p,0T7X CWhite. for thiokoningr White sauces). 

Proceed as in last receipt, but do not keep it on the fire so 
long, and take care not to let it color. 

3-29. SAUCE HOLLAITDAIS— Ingredients— About \ a tea- 
cupful of vinegar, Liuisetl peppercorns, bay leaves, salt, 5 or 6 
eggs, water, a sinall handful of the best flour, butter, ^ pt. of 
whipped cream. 
Put about half a teacupful of vinegar mto a saucepan with 
some bruised peppercorns, bay leaves, and salt. Set the sauce- 
pan on the fire to simmer till the vinegar is almost dried up. 
Then beat theyolksof five or six eggs into it, beatthem up a little 
and for economy a little water maybe added, and a small hand- 
ful of the best flour. Continue to stir with a whisk, adding a 
lump of butter about two inches square. Put it to simmer on 
the fire, watching it and stirring all the time, but not letting it 
boil. After six or ten minutes remove it, and place it in a bain 
Marie. Then add in small lumps the best part of a pound of 
butter, stirring well. Put it back on the iire, but it must not 
boil. Strain this through a tammy. Stir in about a quarter of 
a pint of whipped cream. 

330 TOMATOSATJOE.— Ingredients— 101b. ripe tomatoes, 1 pint 
best brown vinegar, 2,oz. salt, \ oz. cloves, 1 oz. allspice, \ lb. 
white sugar, 1 oz. garlic, \ oz. black pepper, \ oz. cayenae 
pepper. 

Wipe the tomatoes clean, and boil or bake till soft ; then 
Btnin and rub through a sieve that will retain the seeds and 



no MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Sauces. 

skins. Boil the juice for an hour, tnen add the above ingredi- 
ents (all the spices must be ground). Boil all together for a 
sufficient time, which may be known by the absence of any 
watery particle, and by the whole becoming a smooth mass ; 
five hours will generally suffice. Bottle without straining into 
perfectly dry bottles, and cork securely when cold. The garlic 
must be peeled. The proportions of spice may be varied ac- 
cording to taste. 

331. TART ARE SATJOE— Ingredients— Yolk of 1 egg, Ipmchof 

salt, a small piuch of pepper, 4 oz. of oil, vinegar, 1 table- 
spoonful of cfry, mustard, ^ oz. of shalota, ^ oz. of gherkins, 
1 tablespoonful of ravlgote (chervil, tarragon, and burnet 
chopped), 1 teaspoonful of Chili vinegar, or one small pinch of 
cayenne pepper. 

Put in a small basin the yolk of one egg well freed from white, 
one pinch of salt, and a small pinch of pepper ; stir with a 
wooden spoon, and pour in (by drops at first, then by teaspoon- 
fuls) about four ounces of oil, being careful to mix the oil well 
before adding any more ; at every eighth teaspoonful of oil add 
one teaspoonful of vinegar, till all the oil is used ; then add one 
tablespoonful of dry mustard, three shalots (say ^ ounce) 
chopped fine and well washed, six gherkins (say ^ ounce) also 
chopped fine, one tablespoonful of ravigote (chervil, tarragon, 
and burnet, chopped), one teaspoonful of Chili vinegar, or one 
small pinch of cayenne pepper ; mix all together. 

332. OTSTBJR SAUOB-— Ingredient*— Oystex-s, butter, a little 

flour, milk, blade of mace, bay leaf, pepper and salt to taste, 
a little cayenne, a few drops of lemon juico. 

Parboil the oysters in their own liquor, beard them, and re- 
serve all the liquor. Melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, add 
a little flour, the oyster liquor, and enough milk to make as 
much sauce as is wanted. Put in a blade of mace and a bay 
leaf tied together, pepper and salt to taste, and the least bit of 
cayenne. Let the sauce boil, add the oysters, and as soon as 
they are quite hot remove the mace and bay leaf, stir in a few 
drops of lemon juice, and serve. 

333. "WOROBSTER SAtJOB.— Ingredients— Two tablespoonaful 

Indian soy, two ditto walnut catchup, one dessertspoonful of 
salt, one teaspoonful cayenne pepper, one nutmeg(8licedthin), 
one dozen cloves, J oz. root ginger pounded, a little lemon 
peel, a small head of garlic divided into cloves, one pint vin- 
egar, 3 oz. lump sugar. 

Dissolve the sugar in a little of the vinegar over the fire, add 
the other ingredients ; put all into a wide-necked bottle. It 
should stand for a month before using, and is better if shaken 



Sauces. mrs. clarke's cookery book. in 

every day. At the end of the month pour off clear into bottles. 
It is well to make a quart or three pints at a time. 

334. BEBAD SAT70E (to serve ^ith Poultry or Game)-— 

Ingredients — glblcta, J lb. of stale bread, an onion, 10 whole 
peppers, a blade of niace, a little salt, 2 tablespoonsful of 
cream, a pint of water. 

Put the giblets into a pint of water, add the onion, pepper, 
mace, salt. Allow it to simmer for an hour, then strain the 
liquor over the bread crumbs. Cover the stewpan and let it 
stand on the stove for an hour (do not allow it to boil), then beat 
the sauce up with a fork until it is nice and smooth. Allow it 
to boil five minutes, stirring well until it is thick, then add 
cream and serve hot. 

335. S-WBET SAUCE FOR VENISOlT.-Ingredicnts-a glass 

of port wine, about half a tuuibler of rod currant jelly. 

Put the above ingredients into a stewpan and allow them to 
melt slowly, do not boil. When melted it is ready to serve. 

336. OATER SAT70B.— Ingredients— 2 oz. of butter, a table- 

spoonful of Hour, a pint of boiling stock, peppei- and salt, 
Worcester sauce, capers. 

Put two oz. of butter and a tablespoonful of flour into a sauce- 
pan ; stir the mixture on the fire until it acquires a brown 
color; add rather less than a pint ot boiling stock, free from 
fat ; season with pepper, salt, and a little Worcester sauce. 
W hen the sauce boils throw in plenty of capers ; let it boil 
once more, and it is ready. 



STOCKS. 



337. COMMON STOOS. 

Take all the bones of joints, etc., that are available, carcases 
and bones of poultry and game (rot high), chop them all into 
convenient pieces and put them into a saucepan together with 
any scraps of meat, cooked or uncooked, resulting from rem- 
nants, the trimming of cutlets, etc. Add a couple of carrots, 
one onion, a bunch of parsley, one bay leaf, a small sprig of 
thyme, and one of marjoram ; salt to taste, a small quantity 
of white pepper and allspice m'.xed, and two or three cloves. 
Fill the saucepan with cold water until it covers the contents 
by one inch, and set it on the fire to boil slowly for about four 
hours ; strain the liquor through a cloth into a basin and when 
cold, the cake of fat on the top being removed, the stock will 
be fit for use. 

338. GRAVY STOOZ. 

Place a layer of slices of onion in a saucepan holding a 
gallon, over this a layer of fat bacon, and over all about two 
pounds of shin of beef chopped in small pieces ; one pint of 
common stock oi even water, being poured on the whole, set 
the saucepan on the fiie ^"•" one hour, until the liquor is al- 
most evaporated — what is called reduced to a " glaze " — then 
add sufficient cold common slock or cold wate to cover con- 
tents of the saucepan, and two or three carrot i cut in slices, 
one leek, a head of celery (when in season), or some celery 
seed, a handful of parsley, half a clove of garlic, a sprig of 
marjoram and one of thyme, a bay leaf, four or five cloves, 
white pepper and salt to taste. After boiling for about three 
hours strain off the liqour, and, being absolutely freed from 
fat, it is ready for use. 

339. VEAL STOOZ. 

Toss a couple of onions, sliced, and one pound of lean veal 
cut in pieces in a saucepan with some butter until they assume 
a light color, then add half a pound of ham chopped up small, 
and moisten with a pint of common stock cold and perfectly 
free from fat. Let the liquor reduce almost to a "gla^e" — 
then add two quarts of cold common stock, a knuckle of veal, 
or two calves' feet, a couple of carrots, head of celery, parsley, 

113 



Stocks. mrs. clakkes cookery book. 113 

bay leaf, thyme, mace, pepper and salt, all in due proportion. 
Alter boiling two or three hours strain free from fat and it is 
ready. 

3-10. WHITE STOCK. 

Put a knuckle of veal, or two calves' feet, together with an 
old fowl or a rabbit, and a piece of ham about half pound, all 
cut up in small pieces, into a saucepan with sufficient water to 
cover the contents ; the stock should be carefully skimmed as 
it gradually becomes heated, then put in two carrots, a head of 
celery, two onions and a bunch of parsley, together with two 
bay leaves, a sprig of thyme, mace, cloves, pepper and salt to 
taste, and leave the whole to boil from three to four hours, 
when it should be strained and freed from fat. 

341. FISn STOOiS. 

Take a couple of pounds of any kind of hsh, such as floun- 
ders, small eels, or the trimmings of soles that have been fillet- 
ed ; pack them into a saucepan, with a head of parsley, in- 
cluding the root, a head of celery, two blades of mace, a few 
cloves, some white pepper and salt to taste, and a bay leaf. 
Put in as much cold water as will cover the contents of the 
saucepan, set it to simmer gently for a cuuple of hours, then 
titrain off the liquor, and it is ready. 



II 



YEGETABLES. 



OBSERVATIONS. 

Take care to purchase them perfectly fresh, as this is 
their chief value and excellence. The middle-sized are 
preferable to the larger or smaller ; they are more tender, 
juicy, and are better flavored. Peas and potatoes are seldom 
worth eating before midsummer. Salads, greens, roots, 
when first gathered are firm and have a fragrant freshness. 

Vegetables should be carefully cleaned from insects, and 
nicely washed. Boil them in plenty of water, and drain 
them the moment they are done enough. If overboiled, 
they lose their beauty and crispncss. Bad cooks sometimes 
dress them with meat, which is wrong, except carrots with 
boiling beef. 

To boil vegetables green, be sure the water boils when 
you put them in. Make them boil very fast. Don't cover, 
but watch them ; and if the water has not slackened, you 
may be sure they are done when they begin to sink. Then 
take them out ini mediately or the color will change. Hard 
water, especially if chalybeate, spoils the color of such vege- 
tables as should be green. 

To boil them green in hard water, put a teaspoonful of 
salt of wormwood into the water when it boils, before the ve- 
getables are put in. 



342. VEGETABLE MAIlR0"7r (to Boil or Stew). 

This excellent vegetable may be boiled as asparagus. Wheii 
boiled, divide it lengthways into two, and serve it upon a toast 
accompanied by melted butter ; or when nearly boiled, divide 
it as above, and stew gently in gravy like cucumbers. Care 
should be taken to choose young ones not exceeding six inches 
in length. 

SO. spnTAoa. 

Carafclly wash and pick. When that is done, throw it into 
a saucepan that wiU just hold it, sprinkle it with a little salt, 
and cover close. The pan must be set on the fire, and well 

"4 



VrOFTABLES. MRS. CLARICrt COOKERY BOOK. II5 

shaken. Wiicn done, beat tlie spinach well with a small piece d( 
butter; it must come to table pretty dry, and looks well if 
pressed into a tin mould in the form of a large leaf, which is 
sold at the tinshops. A spoonful of cream is an improvement. 

344. SPIITAOK. — Ingredients- Spinach, butler, pepper and salt, 

boiled eggs. 
Wash and pick your spinach very carefully ; drop into boil- 
ing water and cook fifteen minutes. Drain thoroughly through 
a cullender, tlicn chop quite fine. Return to the stove, add one 
tablespoonfiil of bulter, pepper and salt to taste ; put in a vege- 
table dish and garnish with hard-boiled cgf^s. 

345. POTATOES (to Boil). 

Put them on the fire, without paring them, in cold water ; 
let them half boil, then throw in some salt and a pint of cold 
water, and allow to boil again until almost done. Pour off the 
water and put a clean cloth over them, and then the saucepan 
cover, and set them by the fire to steam till ready. Many 
persons prefer steamers. Potatoes look best when the skin is 
peeled, not cut. Do new potatoes the same, but be careful 
they are taken off in time, or they will be watery. Before 
dressing, rub off the skin with a cloth, salt, and then wash. 

346. POTATOES (to Broil). 

Parboil, then slice and broil them. Or parboil and then set 
them on the gridiron over a very slow fire, and when thor- 
oughly done send them up w'th their skins on. This last way 
is practised in many Irish families. 

347. POTATOES (to Roast). 

Half boil, take off the thin peel, and roast them of a beauti- 
ful brown. 

348. POTATOES (to Pry). 

Take the skin off raw potatoes, slice and fry them, either in 
butter or thin batter. 

849. POTATOES (to Hasli). 

Boil the potatoes, peel them, and break them to paste ; then 
to two pounds of them add a quarter of a pint of milk, a little 
salt, and two ounces of butter, and stir it all well ove: the fire. 
Either serve them in this manner, or place them on the dish 
in a form, and then brown the top with a salamander, or in 
scallops. 

SSa. POTATOBS (StufCod).— Ingredients — .5 medium-sized pota>- 
toes, J oz. of butter, 1 tablespoonful of grated cheese, pepper, 
salt, and tke yolk of 1 egg. 

For these take five of medium size, bake in their skii'.s, and 



ii6 MRS. Clarke's COOKERY BOOK. Vegetables. 

when done cut off a small slice from one end, scoop out the 
inside, and rub through a wire sieve. Add to it half aii ounce 
of butter, one tablespoonful of grated cheese, pepper, salt, and 
the yolk of an egg. Mix well, refill the skins, fit on the slices 
which were cut off, and put into the oven again for ten minutes 
before serving. 

351. LYONITATSB POTATOES— Ingredients— A lump of but- 

ter, a small onion, cold boiled potatoes, alittlo parsley. 

Into a saucepan put a large lump of butter and a small onion 
finely chopped, and when the onion is fried to an amber color, 
throw in slices of cold boiled potatoes, which must be thor- 
oughly stirred until they are turning brown : at this moment 
put in a spoonful of finely chopped parsley, and as soon as it 
is cooked drain through a cullender, so that the potatoes retain 
the moisture of the butter and many particles of parsley. 

352. SAHATOGA POTATOES-— Ingiedienta— Potatoes, boiling 

lai'd and salt. 

Peel, and slice on a slaw-cutter into cold water, wash thor- 
oughly and drain ; spread between the folds of a clean cloth, 
rub and pat until dry. Fry a few at a time in boiling lard, salt 
as you take them out. Saratoga potatoes are often eaten cold. 
They can be prepared three or four hours before needed, and if 
kept in a warm place they will be crisp and nice. 

353. BERMUDA POTATOES (fried).— Ingredients— 2 oz. of 

butter, parsley, aalt and pepper, a cup of milk, tablespoonful 
of flour. 

Slice the potatoes and put them into boiling water ; cook 
until tender ; remove and put them into a saucepan with two 
ounces of butter, chopped parsley, salt and pepper and a cup 
of milk ; cook all together and thicken with a tablespooni'ul of 
flour stirred in cold water. 

354. POTATOES (SauteOS au Beurre).-Iugredients— Butter, 

salt. 

Cut with a vegetable cutter into small balls about the size of 
a marble ; put them in a stewpan with plenty of butter and a 
good sprinkling of salt ; keep the saucepan covered, and shake 
it occasionally until they are quite done, which will be in about 
an hour. 

355 POTATOES (Stewed).— Ingredients— Milk, 1 pint, a table- 
spoonful of flour. 

Peel and cut into small uniform pieces as many potatoes as 
may be needed. Have ready enough boiling water (slightly 
salted) to cover them ; boil until done. Skim them out of the 
water into a dish and pour milk gravy over them (made of a 



Vegetables, mrs. Clarke's cookery book. 1x7 

pint of boiled milk, into which has been stirred a tablespoonful 
of flour previously dissolved in a little cold milk). Cold boiled 
potatoes can be served in the same way. 

356. POTATO BALLS. — Ingredients— 4 largo potatoes, 2 table- 

Bpoonaful of butter, a pinch of salt, a little pepper, 1 table- 
spoonful of cream, 2 cgga, boiling lard. 

Four large mealy potatoes, cold ; mash them in a pan with 
two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, a pinch of salt, a little 
pepper, one tablespoonful of cream and the beaten yolk of one 
egg ; rub it together for about five minutes, or until very 
smooth ; shape the mixture into balls about the size of a wal- 
nut or small rolls, dip them into an egg well beaten and then 
into the finest sifted bread crumbs ; fry them in boiling lard. 

357. POTATOES (Escallopod).— Ingredients— Cream, a large 

piece of butter, a little salt. 

Having boiled, beat them fine in a bowl, with cream, and a 
large piece of butter, and a little salt. Put them into escallop 
shells, make them smooth on the top, score with a knife, and 
lay thin slices of butter on the tops of them. Then put them 
into an oven to brown. 

358. POTATO CHIPS.— Ingredients— Boiling lard and salt. 
Peel a raw potato as apples are peeled, let the parings be as 

nearly as possible the same thickness, and let them be as long 
as possible. Dry them thoroughly in a cloth, put them in the 
frying basket, and plunge it into boiling hot lard. When the 
chips are a golden color drain them well in front of the fire, 
sprinkle fine salt over them. 

359. POTATO CASE- — Ingredients— Potatoes, flour and lard. 
Take cold mashed potatoes, and form into flat cakes, flour 

and fry in lard until they are a golden brown. 

360. SWEET POTATOES (Hoast). 

Wash, wipe, and roast. Serve in their jackets. 

361. SWEET POTATOES (Boiled). 

Wash them, plunge into cold water, (no salt) boil till tender, 
drain, and put to dry for five minutes. Peel before serving. 

362. SWEET POTATOES (Pried).— lugredients-lard or drip- 

ping. 

Take cold boiled potatoes, slice and fry in dripping or lard 
until of a golden brown. 

363. CABBAGE (Boiled)-— Ingredients— To half a gallon of water 

a tableepoonful of salt, and a small piece of soda. 

Pick off the outside leaves, cut off as much of the stalk as 



ii8 MRS. Clarke's COOKERY nooK, Vegetables. 



possible, cut across the end of the stalk twice. Wash well in 
cold water, drain and plunge into boilinfr water, in which the 
above proportions of salt and soda have been added ; boil with- 
out cover. Take up directly after they are done, drain, dish 
and serve. 

364. CABBAGE (a la OauliflOTTOr).— Ingredients— Butter, salt, 
i a cup of creiiin. 
Cut the cabbage fine as for slaw ; put it into a stewpan, 
cover with water and keep closely covered ; when tender, 
drain off the water ; put in a small piece of butter with a little 
salt, one half a cup of cream, or one cup of milk. Leave on 
the stove a few minutes before serving. 

866. PAROl (or Stuffed OablaagQ).— ingredients— Veal stuf- 
fing, slicea of sausage meat, gravy. 

Cook the cabbage in salt and water sufficiently to open the 
leaves, and insert between them layers of ordinary veal atufBng, 
slices of sausage meat, then tie it securely round with thread 
to prevent the meat falling out. Replace in the stewpan, and 
cook briskly at first, then simmer till completely tender ; serve 
in the same manner as ragout — that is to say, with a 
little gravy poured over the whole. In winter roast chestnuts 
hidden in the centre are sometimes added, when it is termed 
" Chou en surprise." 

866. BIT RAQ-OTJT. — Ingredients— Clarified fat, small pieces of 
bacon or ham, pepper and salt, a little stock or water. 

Soak a fresh fair-sized cabbage for ten minutes in strong 
salt and water, then take it out and drain carefully ; put some 
clarified fat into a clean stewpan, and some small pieces of 
bacon or ham ; lay half the cabbage on the top (either whole- 
leaved or cut up into large pieces, whichever is preferable), some 
more fat, and pepper and salt to taste, remembering that the 
bacon or ham will add to the aaltness ; place the other half of 
the cabbage on the top, and pour in a little stock (water can be 
used in default of stock, but the latter is by far the best), just 
enough to cover the ingredients. Cook briskly at first, then 
withdraw to the side, and keep it simmering for a considerable 
time. When it is thoroughly done, pour off the liquid, and set 
aside. Place the cabbage in the centre of a heated dish, aa 
much raised as possible, and, having skimmed ofifthe fat from 
the liquor, pour it over the vegetable, and serve. 

376. A LA OZIEME- — lugredieuts— 1 oz. of butter, salt, white 
pepper, spoonful of flour, J pt. of cream, fried croutons. 

For this entide, which is very delicate if carefully picpared, 
it is necessary to choose a cabbage as firm and white afe. pos- 
sible. Throw the vej^cUble into boiling water with some salt, 



Vegetables, mrs. Clarke's cookery book. 119 



aod boil till it is almost done, but not quite tender ; take it out, 
and drain it thoroughly Irom all moisture ; then cut it up 
lengthwise into several pieces ; melt about an ounce of butter 
in a Jtewpan ; the quantity of butter must be regulated by the 
size of the cabbage ; sufficient must be used to make a rich 
sauce. Add salt, white pepper to avoid any discoloration, 
and a spoonful of flour; then put in the cream, according to 
desire, in any case not less than a quarter of a pint. Lay in 
the pieces of cabbage, and finish cooking in the sauce until per- 
fectly tender. Arrange symmetrically on the dish, and place 
some fried crodtons round. 

868. OHOU ROTJan BIT QUARTIBRS.— Ingrcditnts— 1 or 2 
well grown red cabbagee, clai'ified butter, pepper and salt, 
bacon, stock, Eapaguole or brown sauce. 

Take one or two well- grown red cabbages, according to the 
size required for your dish ; cut each vegetable into four 
quarters lengthways, and throw them into boiling water for one 
quarter of an hour ; then take them out carefully and drain 
well. Put some clarified fat into a stewpan, and lay in the 
quarters of cabbage ; season with pepper and salt, and cover 
completely with slicea of bacon, cut very thin, and moisten 
with stock. When done, take them out carefully, and press 
each quarter into a shape — either a round, heart, diamond, or 
in the form of cutlets, which is always a successful shape. 
Arrange artistically on a heated dish, and pour over the whole 
some Espagnole or brown sauce. 

389. ATTZ POMMBS-— Ingredients — 1 red cabbage, 3 or 4 moder- 
ate sized apples, butter, salt, pepper, walnut, 3 or 4 cloves, 
1 dessert spoonful of vinegar, the same quantity of red currant 
jelly, flour for thickening sauce. 

Put a red cabbage into a saucepan, having previously washed 
it well ; just cover it with water ; peel, halve, and core three or 
four moderate-sized apples, and add them to the cabbage 
with a piece of butter about the size of a walnut, salt, pepper, 
and three or four cloves. Cook very gently over a slow fire 
for three hours. When ready to be served, add one dessert 
spoonful of vinegar, the same quantity of red currant jelly, and 
sufficient flour to thicken the sauce. Pour over and send to 
table. 

871. MAR I^'B. — Incredients — A large red cabbage,'pepper, salt, 
wine-glass of white wine vinegar, and the same quantity of 
water, 1 tz. of butter, brown grary. 

Take a large red cabbage and cut it into four pieces, first 
taking away the outside leaves and hard piece of stem ; then 
take each piece separately and mince it in strips as fine as ver- 
micelli, commencing at the head of the piece, and finishing at 



t*d MRS. CLARKE*S COOKERY BOOK. VEGETABLES. 



the stem cnrl. Throw it all into boiling salt and water for ten 
minutes, drain, and place in a terrine or low-rimmed earthen 
jar. Season with pepper and salt, pour on a wine fjlassiul of 
white wine vinegar, and the same quantity of water; leave it 
for fully three hours, then press it well to extract the juice ; 
melt one ounce of butter in a stewpan, add the cabbage, and 
pour on some brown gravy. Cook very gently, indeed, until 
the vegetable is thoroughly done. There is a pleasant acid 
flavor about this entree, which should be eaten after any rifch 
iish, such as salmon, shad, or eels. 

370. BED CABBAGE (to StO"W).— Ingrcdipnts -a small red cab- 
bage, pepper, salt, butter, 2 or 3 spoonfuls of vinegar. 
Slice a small, or half a large red cabbage, wash and put it 
into a saucepan with pepper, salt, no water but what hangs 
about it, with a piece of butter. Stew till qiiitf tender ; and 
when going to serve, add two or three spoonfuls of vinegar, 
and give one boil over the fire. Serve it for cold meat, or with 
sausages on it. 

372. TOMATOES (Stowed)- — Ingredients — Tomatoes, gravy. 

cream and arrow root. 
Arrange them in a single layer and pour over them as much 
gravy as will cover half their height. .Stew very gently until 
the under sides are done, then turn and finish them ; thicken 
the gravy with cream and arrowroot and serve it round them ; 
the tomatoes may have some forcemeat put in the centre of 
each. 

373. TOMATOES (Baked).— Ingredients- half a dozen tomatoes, 

bread-crumlffl, pepper and salt, butter. 
Cut half a dozen tomatoes in halves, remove the pips, and 
fill the insides with a mixture of bread-crumbs, pepper, and 
salt in due proportions ; place a small piece of butter on 
each half tomato, and lay them close together in a well but- 
tered tin ; bake in a slow oven about half an hour, and serve. 
They may be eaten hot or cold. 

374. TOMATOES (Stuffed)— Ingredients — Tomatoes, shallot, 

butter, 2 parts bread-crumbs, 1 part ham, parsley, sweet 

herbs, pepper and salt to ta.ste, toast. 
Dip some tomatoes in hot water, peel them, cut them in 
half, and remove the pips ; rub a baking sheet with shallot, 
butter it well, and lay the tomatoes in it, filling each half with 
the following composition : Two parts bread-crumbs, one part 
ham finely minced, and, according to taste, parsley and sweet 
herbs also finely minced, and pepper and salt. Put a small 
piece of butter on each half tomato, and bake them a quarter 
of an hour ; have ready some round pieces of buttered toast, 
on each of these put a half tomato, and serve. 



Vegf-tables. MRS. clarkfAs cookery nooK. tit 



376. TOMATOES (Vrith Xfiacaroai) (l).— ingredients — small 

(lUiintity ol tomatocH, butter, pepper, salt, a bay leaf and 
some thyme, a few Bpoonfuls of either stock or gravy, mac- 
aroni. 
Take a quantity of tomatoes, cut them up, and remove from 
each the pips and watery substance it contains ; put them into 
a saucepan with a small piece of butter, pepper, salt, a bay 
leaf, and some thyme ; add a few spoonfuls oi either stock or 
gravy ; keep stirring on the fire until ihcy are reduced to a 
pulp, pass them tiirough a hair sieve, and dress the macaroni 
with this sauce and plenty of Parmesan cheese freshly 
grated. 

370. TOMATOES ("Wltll Macaroni) (2).— ingredients— Toma- 
toes, clove of garlic, a few Hi)rigs of thyme, marjoram, basil, 
parsley, whole pepper, salt to taste, and macaroni. 

Cut up a quantity of tomatoes, pui. them into a saucepan 
containing a little water, with a clove of garlic and a few 
sprigs of thyme, marjoram, basil, and parsley, with whole pep- 
per and salt to taste. When quite done turn them out on a 
hair sieve and throw away the water that drains from them, 
thtn pass them through the sieve ; warm the pulp thus ob- 
tained in a saucepan with a piece of butter, and use this sauce 
to dress the macaroni, as above. 

377. TOMATO PIE-— Ingredients— Cold mutton or pork, a few 

slices of potatoes, onions, tomatoes, crust, stock or water. 

Cold pork or mutton, a few slices of potatoes and onions, 
cover with sliced tomatoes, add a little stock or water, make a 
short crust and bake. 

378. TOMATOES (au Gratia).— ingredients- Tomatoes, garlic, 

butter, two parts bread-crumbs, one part mushrooms, parsley, 
pepper and salt. ^ 

Dip the tomatoes in hot water, and peel them ; cut them in 
half, and remove the pips ; rub a baking tin with garlic, butter 
it, lay the tomatoes in side by side, and fill one half with the 
following composition : Two parts bread-crumbs, one part 
mushrooms finely minced, a little parsley chopped fine ; pep- 
per and salt to taste ; put a small piece of butter on each. 
Bake for ten or fifteen minutes, and serve. 

379. TOMATO FEITTEHS-— Ingredients— l quart of stewed 

tomatoes, 1 egg, 1 small teaspoonful of soda, flour, lard. 

Use one quart of stewed tomatoes, one egg, one small tea- 
spoonful of soda ; stir in flour enough to :viake a batter like 
that for griddle cakes. Have some lara, very hot, on the 
stove ; drop the batter in, a spoonful at a time, and fry. 



122 MRS. CLARKK's COOKKRY HOOK. VEGETABLES. 

380. TOMATOES (Broilod)-— T"Ki'*"<^*«"t'' — Some large, frcBh 

toiiiatof.H, Imtter, ix-piKir, ainlKalt, a small portion of sugar, 
an oggspoonful of made mustard. 

In buying tomatoes for broiling, be careful to select large 
and fresh ones. Do not pare them. Slice in pieces about half 
an inch thick, and broil them for a few minutes upon a grid- 
iron ; while they are broiling prepare some hot butter in a cup, 
seasoning with pepper, salt, an eggspoonful of made mustard, 
and a little sugar ; when the tomatoes are finished dip each 
piece into this, and then dish (the dish must be hot). If any 
of the seasoning remains, heat to the point of boiling and pour 
over the dish ; serve immediately. This is a very nice dish if 
cooked well. 

381. TOMATOES (Rav). 

Pare them wiih a sharp knife, slice them neatly and place 
on a dish ; sprinkle with pepper and salt, and pour over a 
little vinegar. Place this in tho refrigerator until it is needed. 

Note : This dish will be much improved by stirring a piece 
of ice about in the dressing before pouring over the tomatoes. 

382. BEET ROOTS. 

Beet roots make a very pleasant addition to winter saladi 
of which they may agreeably form a full half, instead of being 
only used to ornament it. This root is cooling, and very whole- 
some. 

It is extremely good boiled, and sliced with a small quantity 
of onion ; or stewed with whole onions, large or small, as 
follows : — 

Boil the beet tender with the skin on, slice it into a stewpan 
with a little broth, and a spoonful of vinegar ; simmer till the 
gravy is tinged with the color, then put it into a small dish, and 
make a round of the button onions, first boiled till tender, take 
off the skin just before serving, and mind they are quite hot 
and clear. 

Or roast three large onions, and peel off the outer skins till 
they look clear, and serve the beet-root stewed round them. 

If the beet root is in the least broken before dressed, it parts 
with its color, and looks ill, 

383. ONIOHS (Boiled). 

Skin them thoroughly. Put them to boil ; when they have 
boiled a few minutes, pour off the water and add clean cold 
water, and then set them to boil again. Pour this away and 
add more cold water, when they may boil till done. This will 
make them white and clear, and very mild in flavor. After 
they are done, pour off all the water, and dress with a little 
cream, salt, and pepper to taste. 



VrXJETAHLKS. MRS, CI.ARKe's COOKl'.kV ItOOK. Xi^ 



:m. SPANISH OITIOITS (a la Grocquo) -ingrcdients-Oulons, 

Imttor, Miilt, |iii>|H)r. 
Peel off the very outer skins, cut off the pointed ends like a 
cigar, put them in a deep dish, and put a piece of butter and a 
Uttle salt and pepper on the place where the point has been 
cut off, cover them with a plate or dish, and let them bake for 
not leas than three hours. They will throw out a delicious 
gravy. 
385. SPANISH ONIONS (Baked).— Ingreiliciita-* or 5 Spanish 

oniuns, butter, ualt uiid water. 

Salt a sauccpanful of boiling water slightly, put the onions 
into this, leaving the skins on, and let them boil sharply for 
about an hour. When they are done, take them out, wipe 
them, and cover each in a piece of brown paper, bake in the 
oven for two hours. Add butter, pepper, and salt to taste, and 
serve in their skins. 

38G. SPANISH ONIONS (Stored).— Ingredients— 5 or 6 me- 
diuiiiaized HpuniHli oiiion.s, 1 pint of broth or gravy. 

In paring the onions be careful not to cut off too much of 
the tops and ends. Put them into a large saucepan (avoid 
placing one on top of Uie other). Add the broth or gravy, 
and allow it to simmer gently until the onions are quite tender, 
then dish them, pour thegravy over them, and serve quickly. 

387. ONIONS (Burnt, for Gravies).— ingredionts— Half lb. of 

onions, 1 glass of water, 8 oz. of moist sugar, J pt. of vinegar. 
Peel and mince the onion finely, and put into an iron stew- 
pan, and add the water ; allow to boil sev6n minutes. Then 
put in the sugar, and allow to simmer until the mixture is 
nearly black and begins to smoke. Have ready the vinegar 
boiling hot, and strain the liquor slowly into it, stirring with a 
wooden spoon until it is thoroughly mixed ; set aside to cooli 
when ready, bottle for use. 

388. ONIONS (Stuffed). — Ingredients — Very large Spanish 

ouions, cold fat pork or bacon, bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, 
mace, 10 spoonfuls of cream or milk, a woU-beaten egg, but- 
ter, juice of half a lemon, browned flour, milk. 

Wash and skin very large Spanish onions. Lay in cold wa- 
ter an hour. Parboil in boiling water half an hour. Drain, and 
while hot extract their hearts, taking care not to break the out- 
side layers. Chop the inside thus obtained very fine, with a 
little cold fat pork or bacon. Add bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, 
mace, and wet with a spoonful or two of cream (or milk in de- 
fault of cream). Bind with a well -beaten egg, and work into a 
smooth paate. Stuff the onions with this ; put into a dripping 
pan with a very little hot water, and simmer in the oven for an 



124 MRS. Clarke's COOKERY BOOK. VECttAULES. 



hour, basting often with butter melted. When done, take the 
onions up carefully, and arrange the open ends upwards in a 
vegetable dish. Add to the gravy in the dripping pan the juice 
of half a lemon, four tablespoonfuls of cream or milk, and a 
little browned flour wet with cold milk. Boil up once, and 
pour over the onions. 

389. 2ffI7SnB00I£S. 

The cook should be well acquainted with the dif- 
ferent sorts of things called by this name by ignorant 
people, as the deaths of many persons have been caused by 
carelessly using the poisonous kinds. The eatable mushrooms 
first appear very small and of a round form on a very small 
stalk. They grow very fast, and the upper part arfd stalk are 
white. As the size increases, the under part gradually opens 
and shows a fringy fur of a very fine salmon color which con- 
tinues more or less till the mushroom has been picked, when it 
turns to a brown. The skin can be more easily peeled from the 
real mushroom than the poisonous kind, A good test is to 
sprinkle a little salt on the spongy part or gills of the sample to 
be tried; if they turn black they are wholesome, if yellow they 
are poisonous. Give the salt a little time to act, before you 
decide as to their quality. 

390. Do. (Steved).— Ingredients— Mushrooms, salt, butter and 

browned flour. 

Gather those that havered gills ; cut oft that part of the 
stem which grew in the earth ; wash, and take the skin from 
the top ; put them in a stew-pan, with some salt ; stew them till 
tender ; thicken with a spoonful of butter and browned flour. 

391. Do. (Broilod)- — Ingredients — Mushrooms, salt, pepper, butter. 
Prepare them as directed for stewing. Broil them on a 

griddle ; and when done, sprinkle salt and pepper on the gills, 
and put a little butter on them. 

392. DO- (Bakod)-— Ingredients — 18 or 20 mushroom-flaps, pepper 

and butter to taste. 

Pare the top and cut off part of the stalk, wipe them care- 
fully with a piece of flannel or cloth and a little fine salt. 
Then put them into a baking dish and put a piece of butter on 
each mushroom. Sprinkle with pepper to taste and bake for 
twenty minutes or half an hour. When done serve on a hot 
dish with the gravy poured over the mushrooms. 

393. Do. (a la Oreaie). — ingredients— Mushrooms, butter, salt, 

nutmeg, a bunch of herbs, yolk of one egg, some good cream. 

Cut the mushrooms in pieces, and toss them over a brisk fire 
in butter seasoned with salt, a very litle nutmeg, and a bunch of 



Vegetables, mrs. Clarke's cookery book. 125 

herbs. When they are done enough, and the butter nearly all 
wasted away, take out the herbs, add the yoll: jf an egg beat- 
en up in some good cream; make very hot and serve. 

394. IIUSSXIOOUIS (HagrOUt of). —Ingredients — Mushrooms, 

melted lard or bntter, salt, pepper, minced parsley, broth, 
a spoonful of cuUis, a squeeze of lemon juice. 
Skin and cut the mushrooms in slices, toss them in melted 
lard or butter, seasoned with salt, pepper, and minced parsley ; 
moisten with broth and a spoonful of cullis. Just before serv- 
ing add a squeeze of lemon juice. 

395. Do- (Essence of)- — Ingredients — Mushrooms, salt. 
Sprinkle a little salt over flap or button mushrooms. Allow 

them to stand three hours. Mash them, and the following 
day strain off the liquor that will flow from them. Put in 
stewpan, and boil till it is reduced one half. It will not keep 
very long, but it is a delicate relish. 

396. !D0- (Powder)- — ingredients— Half a peck of large mushrooms, 

2 teaspoonfuls of white pepper, one quarter oz. of pounded 
mace, 2 onions, a dozen cloves. 

Pare and wipe the mushrooms, be careful that no grit or 
dirt adheres to them ; remove the black fur ; put into stew- 
pan without water ; add ingredients and bhake over a clear 
fire, till the liquor is evaporated. Under no consideration 
??)low them to burn. Place upon tins, and dry in a slow oven. 
Then proceed to pound it into a fine powder. Have ready 
^omt perfectly dry small bottles, and put the powder in them. 
Cork and seal and keep in a dry place. This is a splendid sub- 
stitute for mushrooms, when they are not in season. 

397. PARSinPS. 

Boil, mash, season with butter, pepper and salt, make into 
little cakes ; roll in flour and brown in hot lard. They are 
very nice cooked in this manner. 

398. Do. (American Fashion). 

Scrape and boil some parsnips, then cut each lengthwise in 
four, and fry them very brown, and dish in pairs. There is 
no vegetable so nourishing as parsnip, and when done in this 
way is very nutritious. 

399. Do. (Buttered). — ingredients— Parsnips, butter, pepper, salt, 

chopped parsley. 

Boil the parsnips tender and scrape ; slice lengthwise. Put 
three tablespoonfuls of butter into a saucepan, with pepper, 
salt, and a little chopped parsley. When heated put in the 
parsni{)s. Shake and turn until mixture boils, theD lay the 



126 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. VECEXAnLES. 



parsnips in order upon a dish, and pour the butter over them 
and serve. 

400. PAHSNIPS (MaslXSd)-— I»g>'«dients — Parsnips, .? dessert 

spoonfwla of cream, butter the size of an egg, pepper, salt. 

Boil and scrape the pi.'snips. Mash with potato beetle* 
remove the fibres, add the above ingredients, place in sauce- 
pan, heat to boiling, and serve in the form of a mound on a 
hot dish. 

401. DO- (Friod). — Ingredients — Parsnips, flour, dripping, pepper. 
Boil until tender, scrape and cut into pieces (lengthwise), 

dijjin flour and fry in boiling dripping, browning both sides. 
Drian, first on sieve, then on blotting paper, pepper to taste, 
and serve very hot. 

402. DO- (PricaSSOfl.).— Ingredients — Parsnips, milk, white sauce, 

2 spoonfuls of broth, apiece of mace, 1 half cupful of cream, 
butter, flour, pepper and salt. 

Scrape them ; boil in milk till they are soft ; then cut them 
lengthwise into pieces two or three inches long, and simmer 
in a white sauce, made of two spoonfuls of broth, a piece of 
mace, one-half cupful of cream, a piece of butter, and some 
flour, pepper and salt. 

40.3. CUCUMBERS (to Dress).— Ingredients— Half a teacupful 
of vinegar, .3 tablcspoonfuls of salad oil, pepper and salt. 

Pare and cut the cucumber into slices as thin as a wafer (it 
is better to commence at the thick end). Place in a glass dish ; 
sprinkle with salt aTd pepper, and pour over the above pro- 
portions of oil and vinegar. This is a nice accompaniment to 
boiled salmon, and is useful in concocting a salad. It is also 
an excellent garnish for lobster salad. 

404. Do- (Stored)- — Ingredients —.3 largo cucumbers, a little but- 

ter, halt' a pint of brown gravy, a little flour. 

Cut the cucumbers lengthwise, removing the seeds. Have 
the pieces a convenient size for the dish they are 
served in. Plunge tlicm into boiling water with a little palt. 
Allow it to simmer for five minutes. Put the grav\ into an- 
other saucepan, and 'vhcn the cucumbers are done, remove 
from the water and place in the gravy, and allow to bcil until 
they are tender. If tiiere should be a bitter taste, add a tea- 
spoonful of granulated sugar. Dish carefully, skim the sauce, 
and pour over the cucumbers. 

405. D0> (Priod). — lugredieuts — Two nice cucumbors, pepper and 

salt, oil or butter. 

Pare cucumbers, cut into slices, press the slices upon a dry 



VlKJI'TADLKS. MRS. CLAHKr: S COOKERY BOOK. 



127 



I clean cloth; dredge with flour; have ready a pan of boiling 
oil or butter, put the slices into it, and keep turning them un- 
til they are brown ; remove them from pan and lay upon a 

Ibieve to drain. Serve on a hot dish. 

lOG. OUOTJMBER (a la MaitrO d'Hotol)-— Ingredients— A nice 
straight cucunibor, boiling water, a littlo salt, picoo of butter 
size of an egg, bunch of paraley, some small onions, pepper. 

Peel a nice, straight cucumber, and cut it in four pieces 

lcn"'thwavs ; scoop out all the seeds, and then cut it up again 

into small long pieces about a finger length ; throw these into 

saucepan of boiling water and some salt. When they bend 

inder the touch they are done, and must be taken out and 

,ery carefully drained in a sieve ; then put them into a stew- 

)an, with a good sized piece of butter, some finely chopped 

Bi.irsley, some onions, and salt and pepper to taste. The cu- 

;uniber will not, however, require much salt, as the acid itself 

[renders it salt tasting. Toss the pieces of vegetables well over 

la brisk fire until thoroughly heated through, and serve on a 

Ivery hot dish. 

t07. DO- (Pircis)- — ingredients— Cucumber, meat stuffing, a bunch 
of herbs, and some good stock, a little corn tiour, butter the 
si/e of an egg. 

Cut of the tail ends of a short, thickly made cucumber, and 
scoop o'-it the seeds with the end of u spoon, or manow-spoon 
is best, then peel it very thinly ; prepare a good meat stuffing, 
or even fish can be used as a forcemeat for a change, and fill 
the cucumber with it, replacing the ends originally cut oflfwith 
the aid of little wooden skewers. Wrap round the vegetable 
with a thin linen cloth, and put it into a stewpan with a bou- 
quet of herbs and some good stock. Simmer over a clear fire 
until done, then reduce the liquid, thickening it with flour (a 
little cornflour is preferable) and butter. Serve in the gravy 
thus made. 

408. Do (a la POUlottO)- -Ingredients Butter the size of an egg 
rolled in flour, slices of cucumber, a little cream or stock, 2 
eggs, a few drops of vinegar. 

Put Lome floured butter (butter rolled in flour) into a stew- 
pan, with slices of cucumb .r dressed as for a hi inaitre d'hotel; 
moisten with some good c; am, or stock in default of cream. 
Toss the cucumber una I well heated through, then take it off 
the fire, and add two yolks of eggs, and a few drops (to taste) 
of vinegar. 

409. Do. (Prlta). 

Cut the cucumber (already cooked) into pieces about the 
length of your little finger, dry them very carefully in a cloth, 



128 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Vegetables. 

and fry them in butter. They can also be dipped in a good 
batter, and then fried in the same way as salsify. Particular 
care must be taken to have the vegetable very dry, as the 
slightest moisture will prevent them frying crisp. 

410. HAEIOOT BEAITS (l).— Ingredients— Half a pint of small 

white beans, enough cold water to cover them, i oz, of but- 
ter, teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a few blices of raw 
bacon. 

Soak half a pint of small white beans over-night in just 
enough water to cover them ; the next day, boil two hours, 
strain, and put into a pie dish with half an ouiice of butter, a 
teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley previously fried, cover 
with slices of raw bacon, and bake a quarter of an hour. 

411. Do. (2). — Ingredients — Beans, melted butter, 2 hard boiled 

eggs, fried parsley, a gill of milk, pepper, salt, 3 drops of 
lemon juice. 

Soak and boil as before ; then stir into them some well- 
made melted butter, and garnish with hard-boiled eggs cut 
in halves and set on end on the top of the beans, with a 
little pyramid of fried parsley in the centre of the dish. The 
melted butter must be carefully made, with half an ounce of 
butter and the same of flour stirred together over the fire until 
they are well blended ; then add a gill of milk, pepper, and 
salt, and three drops of lemon juice ; when this boils it is 
considered sufficiently cooked. An oKlinary sized egg to be 
hard, should be boiled twelve minutes ; if less it will be soft in 
the centre, if more it will be overdone, and have a black line 
round it near the shell. 

412. L TMA BEANS* — Ingredients — One qt. Lima beans, salt, 

pepper, butter, 1 qt. of milk. 

Take one quart of Lima beans, wash and soak them over- 
night in cold water ; simmer over a slow fire four hours ; then 
add salt, pepper, butter (the size of an egg), and one quart of 
sweet milk ; boil for half an hour. 

413. LIliIA A2TD BUTTER BEANS— Ingredients- i:. .ana. 

boiling water, a little salt and butter. 

Shell and place in cold water, allowing them to remain in 
the water half an hour ; then put into boilincj water with a 
little salt and cook until tender ; drain, and butter and pepper 
them. 

414. THElTOn BEANS- — Ingredients— Beans, boiling water, 

butter the size of an egg, salt. 

Top, tail, and string the beans carefully \ cut in pieces 
about an inch long ; lay in cold salt and water for a quarter of 



Vegetablfs. m us. clarke*s cookery book:. 129 



an hoar ; drain and plunge into saucepan of boiling water and 
boil until tender ; drain in a cullender ; dish with the above 
proportion of butter stirred in. 

415. FBEiTOn SEAITS (to Frcservo). 

Get the beans, some :;alt, and any kind of salting tub or 
earthenware pan; put in a layer of beans, a layer of salt, and so 
on till full. When wishing to use, soak forty-eight hours ; cut 
and boil till cooked. The water must be changed several times 
in which they soak. They will be of an excellent color and 
1 flavor. 

1 416. TURITIPS (BoilOfli)-— Ingredients— Tiu'uips, boiling watfr, 

pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of sugar, a tablcspoonful of 

butter. 

Pare and cut in pieces ; put them into boiling water well 

salted, and boil until tender ; drain thoroughly and then mash 

and add apiece of butter, pepper and salt to taste, and a small 

I teaspoonful of sugar ; stir until they are thoroughly mixed, and 

[serve hot. 

1 417. Do. (German recipe for cooking).— ingredients— Half a 

dozen large turnips, o oz. of butter, ^ pint weak stock, 1 
tablcspoonful of flour, pepper and salt. 

Heat the butter in a stewpan, pare and cut the turnips into 
pieces the size of dice and season with pepper and salt ; then 
place in the hot butler, toss over the fire for five minutes, add 
the stock and simmer gently until the turnips are tender. 
Brown the flour with a little butter ; add this to the turnips 
and simmer five minutes- Boiled mutton may be served with 
this dish. , , - : 

418. Do- (a la Orome). — ingredients— One oz. of butter, a dessert- 
spoonful of flour, pepper and salt, grated nutmeg, a little 
milk or cream. 

Take small new turnips, peel and boil them in salted water ; 
drain them thoroughly. Melt one ounce of butter in a sauce- 
pan, add to it a dessertspoonful of flour, pepper, salt, grated 
nutmeg, and a small quantity of milk or cream ; put in the 
turnips ; simmer gently a few minutes, and serve. 

419. DO- (a la do MaltrO). — ingredients — Small new turnips, a 
little butter, chopped parsley, pepper and salt, and a squeeze 
of lemon. ^ 

Boil some small new turnips as in the preceding recipe ; 
drain them thoroughly, and melt some butter in the saucepan ; 
put the turnips in, give them a toss or two, add a little chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt, a squeeze of lemon juice, and serve. 

r 



t Jd MRS. CLARKE'S COOKERY BOOK. VEGETABLES. 

'1-0. OAHROTS (to Boil) — Ingiciliuuts— V young carrots, atablc- 
spoouful of Bait. 
Place upon the stove two qts. of warm water with the above 
proportion of salt, bring to a boil ; wash and scrape the car- 
rots, remove any black specks, cut in halves, plunge into the 
boiling water, and boil until tender ; drain, and serve upon a 
hot dish. 

421. Do. (Ste'WOd,)-—Ing>'e(lieuta- Carrots, a little weak broth, 

salt, Imttor, a dessertspoonful of iionr, pei)per. 

Wash and scrape the carrot ; split the largest. Then whiten 
them in hot water, and drain them on a sieve ; then boil them 
in weak broth, with salt ; then put some butter in a saucepan, 
with a dessertspoonful of flour ; stir it and brown it. Add 
the carrots to it, broth and pepper. Stir, and let all simmer 
together. 

422. OAE.OTTES(G-laCCOS)--I".c:re(lients— Carrots, butter, wliitc 

powdered siigar, a little stock. 

Trim up to resemble little poars in shape s:me new red car- 
rots, and soak for a few minutes in water. Then fry in butter 
with the addition of some white powdered sugar and a little 
good stock. When the pieces are Bufficicntly cooked increase 
the heat of the fire, so that evaporation goes on rapidly; let 
the carrotr glaze, aud then serve. 

423. SALSIFY (BoiloD- — Salsify, vinegar, water, butter, lemon 

juice, parsley, salt. 

Scrape the roots, cut them in short lengths, and throw them 
into vinegar and water as they are being done. Boil them 
till tender in salted water, drain them, toss them into a sauce- 
pan with a piece of butter, a little lemon juice, and some minced 
parsley ; add salt and serve. 

424. EG& PLAITT (BalSSd).— Ingrrdionts- Egg plant, Rait, a onp 
of crumbs, 2 oz. of salt poik, an onion, pepper, nutmeg, butler. 

Parboil fifteen minutes. Then make a triangular cut in the 
top ; remove the piece and take out the seeds. Let it lie for 
an hour in water to which a tablcs])oonful of salt has been 
added. Make a stuffing of one cup of crumbs, two ounces of 
salt pork, and an onion chopped fine, one tcaspoonful of salt, 
half a one of pepper and of nutmeg mixed ; wet v^^^ith half a cup 
of boiling water or stock, and fill the egg plant, tying a string 
around it to keep the piece in place. Bake an hour, basting 
often with a spoonful of butter in a cup of water. 

425. VEGETABLE MARHO'W (StOVOd).-lngrcdients-l 
maiTow, 1 onion, a piece of butter, pepper, salt, nutmeg, 
parsley, a little stock. 

Chop up half an onion very small, and put it in a saucepan 



Vegetables, mrs. clarke's cookery book. 131 



with a piece of butter ; wlieji it begins to color put in the veg- 
etable marrow (cut in slices), add peppe*-, salt, and grated nut- 
meg ; moisten with stock, and stew till done, adding some 
finely minced parsley just before serving 

426. VE&ETABLB MAEROW (Priod).— Ingredients— 1 mar- 

row, a little salt, flour, dripping or lard. 

Having peeled and removed the seeds of a good-sized veget- 
able marrow, cut it in strips one and a half inches long by 
three-quarter inches square; put these on an invt -ted plate 
placed in a basin, and strew plenty of finely powdered salt over 
them. In a couple of hours take up the pieces of marrow and 
dry them in a cloth by wringing it at both ends, not so hard, 
however, as to break them ; then put them in another cloth 
with some flour and shake them well, so that they are individ- 
ually well covered with flour ; lastly, put them in a frying bas- 
ket and plunge this in very hot fat ; as soon as the marrow 
strips begin to color, lay them, sprinkled with salt, in]front of 
the fire to drain, and serve hot. 

427. D0> {BoiloD- — Ingredients— Allow 1 tablespoouful of salt to 

i gallon of water, marrow. 

Having prepared the water as above bring to the point of 
boiling ; peel the marrow and plunge into the boiling water, 
and boil until tender; remove from thewater with a slice, halve, 
and should it be very large quarter it Dish on toast, and 
send to tible accompanied with a tureen of melted butter. 

428. GREEIT 00P.1T (StOTred). 

Having cut the corn from the cob, put into boiling water and 
allow to stew a quarter of an hour; rcMuovo nearly all the water 
and cover with milk, and allow to stew until tender ; before 
dishing, roll some pieces of butter m flour and mix with the 
corn, adding a little pepper and salt ; give one boil and serve. 

429. Do- (Boiled). 

Strip off all the outer husks, allowing the innermost tore- 
main ; remove the silk and re-cover the ear with the remaining 
husk, secure with a piece of thread, plunge into boiling salted 
water, and boil half an hour. Cut off stalks and dish upon a 
napkin. 

430, DO- (Hoastod). — Ingredients —Corn, butter, salt, pepper. 
Open the husks, remove the silk, close the husks closely, and 

roast in the ashes of a wood fire until tender ; serve with butter, 
pepper, and salt. This is frequently eaten in ramp. 

431. SUMMER SQTJASHES.— Ingredients— Svuiash, butter, 

pepper, salt. 
Pare the outer rind, remove the seeds, quarter, and lay in 



t32 MRS. Clarke's cookfry book. VECKfAm.PA 

ice water t:n minutes; put into boilin;,' water, a little salt, and 
cook until tender ; press all the water from them. Mash 
smooth, season with the above ingredients, and serve hot. 

432. WHTTER SQUASH. 

Proceed as abovi.', allowing more time to cook; before puttin;^' 
into the boiling water, allow it to soak in cold water three 
hours. 

433. OAULIFLOWEH (Boiled).— Ingredients— Cauliflower, salt 

water, 

Was'i in two or three waters. Cut off the end of stalk and 
outer leaves, allow to lie in sail andjwater five minutes, plunge 
into boiling salted water, and boil fifteen or twenty minutes ; 
drain and serve hot. 

4.'31. Do. (FriOd)- — Ingredients— Caidifiower, salt, vinegar, whole 
pepper, a few cloves, butter, lard. 

Pick out all the green leaves from a cauliflower, and cut off 
the stalk close ; put it head downwards in a saucepan full of 
boiling salted water ; do not overboil it ; drain it on a sieve, 
pick it out into small sprigs, and place them in a deep dish 
with plenty of vinegar, whole pepper, salt, and a few cloves. 
When they have lain about an hour in this drain them, dip 
them in batter, and fry in hot lard to a golden color. 

435. DO- {Soallopod).—Ingi"eclicnts— Cauliflower, 1 oz. butter, \ 

gill of milk, 1 oz. bi cad-crumbs, cayenne, salt, 1 egg. 

Choose a cauliflower of medium size, boil it twenty minutes ; 
put into a saucepan one ounce of butter, half a gill of milk, and 
one ounce of bread ciumbs; add cayenne and salt to taste, and 
stir till the bread has absorbed the milk and butter. Beat an 
egg and add this to the sauce, but be sure that it docs not sim- 
mer after the egg has been added, liutter aflat tin dish, take 
off the fine leaves of the cauliflower and place them all round 
on it, break up the flower carefully and lay in the centre, 
making it as high as possible; pour the sauce over this, sprinkle 
a few bread-crumbs on the top, and bake ten minutes. 

436. aUSElT PEAS (to Soep). 

Shell, and put them into a kettle of water when it boils; give 
them two or three warms only, and pour them in a cullender ; 
when the water drains off, turn them out on a table covered 
with cloth, and pour them on another cloth to dry perfectly ; 
then bottle them in wide-mouthed bottles ; leaving only room 
to pour clarified mutton-suet upon them an inch thick, and for 
the cork. Rosin it down, and keep it in the cellar or in the 
earth. When they are to be used, boil them till tender, with a 
piece of butter, a spoonful of sugar, and a little mint. 



Vegetables, mrs. Clarke's cookery uook. 133 



437. DEESIT PEAS (to Eoep, as praotlsod in the Emperor 
of Eus&ia's kitchen)- 
When they are to be used, let them lie an hour in water; then 
set them on with cold water and a piece of butter, and boil them 
till ready. Put a sprig of dried mint to boil with them. Boiled 
peas should not be overdone, uor in much water ; chop some 
scalded mint to garnish them, and stir a piece of butter in 
with them. 

438. Do. (StOWOl)-— I"g''cdionts— A quart of peas, 1 lettuce, 1 

onion, butter, pepper, salt, 1 egg, a little flour. 

Put a quart of peas, a lettuce and an onion both sliced, a 
piece of butter, pepper, salt, and no more water than han;:fs 
round the lettuce from washing; stew them two hours very 
gently. When to be served, beat up an egg, and stir it into 
them, or a little flour and butter. Some think a teaspoonful 
of white powdered sugar is an improvement. 

439. DO- (a la Francaise)-— Ingredients -For every pint of pcaa 

1 gill of water, 1^ oz. of butter, a bunch of parsley, salt, 
pepper, 8 or 9 small white onions, 1 lettuce. 

Put the required quantity of peas necessary for your dish 
into a perfectly clean and bright stcwpan, with some water and 
butter in the following proportions : For every pint of peas one 
gill of water and one ounce of butter. When this is thoroughly 
amalgamated, add a little bouquet, tied together, of parsley, 
also salt, pepper, and another half ounce of butter, then 
eight or nine small white onions, and a whole lettuce. Simmer 
the whole well for an hour, or more if the peas and other vege- 
tables are not completely tender. The time, in fact, must be 
regulated according to the judgment of the cook. When done, 
take out the buncli of parsley, the lettuce, and the onions, 
which are very serviceable for hashes, stews, or soups, even 
when used as above. The peas, when once cooking, must not 
be touched by a spoon or a fork, as it would bruise them and 
spoil the appearance of the entree, but well tossed constantly 
to prevent them sticking to the stewpan, always kept briskly 
simmering, but never boiling, otherwise they will harden. 

440. Do. (au Snore). — ingredients — Peas, white sugar. 

Green peas prepared as above without the lettuce, onions, 
parsley, or pepper, but some finely powdered while sugar 
sprinkled in by degrees, and according to taste. 

441. Do. (en Puree). — ingredients — Two pints of peas, white 

sugar, bread-crumbs, flour, double cream, salt, a l)unch of 
parsley, white pepper, butter and stock in adequate propor- 
tions, fried croutons (heart-shaped). 

The great secret of a well-concocted pur^e is the softness of 



134 MRS. clakkf/s cookery book. Vkortablks. 



the whole. It should pass over the palate like velvet, and 
leave no trace of its substance or material behind. To ensure 
this ciraniy softness there are three distinct methods. Fir-H^Iy, 
by adding bc'fore passing tlirough llie hair sieve some very fine 
white sifieu bread-crumljs ; secondly, prepared flour mi.xed 
carefully to a smooth paste first, with some slock or bouillon ; 
andthiidlyby theaid of gooddouble cream. A tiny pinch of fine 
white powdered sugar mustalways be added. It is avery neces- 
sary ingredient. For an artistic purdc, then, tal<c two pints, 
say, of young green peas, and throw them into a saucepan of 
boiling water with some salt, and a bunch of parsley. When 
they are tender, lake them out and drain them tiiorouL;hly from 
all the moisture, and then pass carefully through a fine hair 
sieve. Season the puree thus made with a little while pepper 
and salt to taste, and reheat in a saucepan with a little butter 
and stock in adequate proportions, having of course previously, 
as directed above, employed one of the three methods for thick- 
ening and softening ilic purde. Serve with fried crofitons, cut 
out in heart shape. The husks of the very young green-pea 
shell will also make a purde, or prove serviceable in mixing 
with the other, if thoroughly well cooked until quite soft in 
boiling water, drained, brui.sed, and then passed through a 
sieve, seasoned in the same manner. For green-pea soup the 
husk is very useful, as the flavor obtained equals in every way 
the vegetable itself. 

442. ASPARAQ-TJS — Ingredients —Asparagus, salt, toast, butter. 
After scraping the stalks to cleanse them, place them in a 

vessel of cold water. Tie them up neatly into bundles of 
about twenty-five heads each, then place them in a saucepan 
of boiling water, sprinkling a handful of salt over it. When it 
is boiling remove any scum there may be ; the stalks will be 
tender when they are done ; they will take about twenty min- 
utes or half an hour ; be careful to take them up the minute 
they are done ; have ready some toast, dip in it the liquor ia 
which the asparagus was boiled ; dish upon toast, and serve 
with a boat of melted butter. 

443. DO- (in AmTsUSll).— Ingredients— 2 bunches of aspararue, 8 

stale biscuits (or rolls may be used), 4 eggs, about \ pmt of 
milk, butter the size of an egg, flour, pepper and salt to taste. 

Take the green tops of the two bunches of asparagus, boil 
them tender and mince finely. While they are boiling, take 
the biscuits or rolls, divide them, keeping the top half for a 
cover ; place them all in the oven to crisp ; make the railk 
hot, and then pour in the eggs beaten ; stir over the fire until 
it thickens, then add the butttr rolled in flour, and lastly add 



Vlgetablks. MRS, cf-arke's cooKi:uv DOOK. 135 



the asparagus; spread the rolls with this mixture, put on the 
tops and serve hot. 

444. ASPARAGUS (andEgfgS).— I'igre.liei,t8-20or30head8of 

awpiUci'.Mis, good licli ImtU'c, wait and pt-ppcr, 5 or G cg{^s. 
Boil the asparagus (alter cutting them into pic<cs of about 
half an inch) for filltcn minutes ; take a eiip of rich liit'> r and 
put it into a saucepan ; drain the asparagus, and pi t it with 
the butter ; heat them to a boil, seasoning with p ppji' and 
salt, and then ytoviv into a buttered baking tin or disn ; break 
five or six eggs neatly over the surface of this, sprinkle with 
pepper and salt, and put it in the oven until ilie eggs are set 
nicely. Serve hot. 

445. Do. (Pudding) -Ingredients (Irccn tops of 2 biuiches of 

aspni'iigns, ',i tahlespoonfula of prepared Hour, 4 or 5 well- 

bcati'ii eggs, 2 dessertspoonfuls of molted butter, 1 teacup 

of milk, 1 pinch of soda, pctppcrand salt to taste. 

Roil the asparagus and when cool chop iinely ; take the eggs, 

butter, peppLr and salt, and beat them up together, then put 

in the flour; stir the soda into the millc, and add gradually; 

lastly put in the asparagus. Put this into ^ buttered mould 

with a lid, «r if it has no lid tie it down tightly with a floured 

cloth ; boil for two hours. When dune, turn out on a dish, and 

pour melted butter round it. 

446. ARTICHOKES (with White SaUC0).-Ingredient8- Salt- 

ed wtitei', i oz. butter, 1 taliNjspoonful of Hour, white pep- 
per a.id bait, the yolks of 2 eggs and the juice of a lemon. 
Wash them well, peel and shape them to a uniform size ; 
throw them into boiling salted water, and let them boil fifteen 
to twenty minutes ; drain them at once thoroughly ; put them 
on a dish and servo with the following sauce poured over 
them. Mix over the fire one and a half ounces of butter with 
a tablespoonful of flour ; add half a pint of boiling water, 
white pepper, and salt to taste ; stir till the sauce thickens, 
then take the saucepan off the fire, and stir in the yolks of 
two eggs, beaten up with the juice of a lemon, and strained. 

447. DO- (with Orcaift)--— Ingredients — The same ingredients as 

above, adding a little cream and grated nutmeg. 
Prepare and parboil them as in the preceding recipe ; then 
put them into a saucepan with a due allowance of white sauce, 
and let them finish cooking in this, adding at the last a small 
quantity of cream and grated nutmeg. 

448. DO- (with GraVY). — ingredients— As No. 1, adding gravy. 
Prepare them as above, cutting them to the size of 

pigeon's eggs. Parboil them for ten minutes, drain them and 
toss them in a saucepan, with a piece of butter ; then add a 
small quantity of good clear gravy and a dust of pepper. Let 
them simmer very gently till wanted. 



136 MRS. Clarke's COOKERY BOOK. VEGIiXABLEa 

449. AUTICHOHES (Iflashod). -Iii«redicnt«— Salted water, a 

jiicce of butter, a littlo cream, white pepper, uutineg oiul salt. 
Wash, peel, and boil them in salted water ; drain, and pass 
them through a hair sieve. Squeeze all the water out of the 
pulp ; put it into a saucepan, and work it on the fire, with a 
piece of butter and a little cream, adding wliite pepper, nut- 
meg and salt if necessary. When quite hot and sufficiently 
dry, serve. 

450. Do. (rriod). — Ingredients— A little flour, lard, butter. 
Wash, peel, and parboil them whole for ten minutes, then 

cut them in strips the size of a little finger. Flour them care- 
fully, and fry in hot lard ; or they may be dipped in baiter 
and fried. Serve piled up on a napkin. 

451. Do (StOVTCl)-— Ingicdicnts -Two shallotB, butter, a little 

stock, pt i>per, Halt, lemon juice, parsley. 
Mince a couple of shallots and fry them in plonty of butter ; 
put in the artichokes parboiled and cut into pieces, moisten 
with a little stock, season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon 
juice ; lastly add some finely-chopped parsley, and let the whole 
stew gently till quite done. A small quantity of Parmesan 
cheese may be added. 

452. DO- (au Gratia). — Ingrcdienta— A shallot, baked bread- 

oiunibs, pepper, salt, powdered thyme, lemon juice, butter. 
Wash, peel, and boil them whole ; cut them in slices the 
thickness of a cent. Butter a dish previously rubbed with a 
shallot ; arrange the slices on it, strew over them soma baked 
bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little powder- 
ed thyme, add a squeeze of lemon, put a few pieces of butter on 
the top, and bake for ten or fifteen minutes. 

453. PTJMPKllT (Stewed.).-I»gicdient8— Pumpkin, butter, pep- 

per and salt. 
Halve, remove the seed, pare and slice neatly. Soak for 
an hour in cold water ; then place in a saucepan of boiling 
water on the fire. Allow it to stew gently until it falls to 
pieces. Stir often. Then take it out, drain, squeeze, and 
rub through a cullender, then put it back in the saucepan 
adding two dessertspoonfuls of butter, pepper and salt to taste. 
Stir quickly, and when nearly boiling dish, adding more pepper 
if required. 

454. DO- (Bakod)' — Ingredients — A nice rich pumpkin, butter. 
Cut the pumpkin into quarters, remote seeds, cut into slices 

lengthwise about half an inch thick. Place in a baking dish 
suitable for the purpose and arrange in layers about tliree 
slices deep. Put a very little water in the bottom of the dish 
and bake very slowly until done (the water must have evapor- 
ated). It takes a long time to bake. Butter the slices on both 
isides and dish. It is eaten with bread and butten and tea; 



SALADS. 



OBSERVATIONS ON SALADS. 

The following vegetables are commonly used in com- 
pounding salads: Beetroot, lettuce, cucumber, mint, parsley, 
radish, mustard and cress, onions, and celery. Any rem- 
nants of boiled fresh fish make very good salads ; they 
should be sliced and seasoned with anchovies, parsley, 
vinegar, &c. 



•lou. SALAD- — Ingredients — Four or five heads of cabbage lettuce, 
4 spoonfuls of olive oil, lA or 2 tablcspoonfuls of tarragon 
vinegar, pepper and salt to taste, a small pinch of mint 
miu^d finely. 

Takp four or five heads of cabbage lettuce, remove all out- 
side leaves, and cut off flic stalks close ; then cut each head 
apart into four or five '' quarters,'' that is, cut through th( 
stalk and then tear the rest. Put four tablespnonfuls of olive 
oil into the salad bowl, with two and one half tablespnonfuls 
of tarragon vinegar, pepper and salt according to taste, and 
beat the mixture with a fork for some minutes ; then put in the 
lettuce, and keep it turning over swiftly for five minutes, 
adding a small pinch of mint, chopped as finely as possible. 

456. LETTUOB! SALAD — Ingredients— Two heads of lettuce, 
yollis of 2 hard boiled eggs, a tetispoonf ul of French nnistard, 
pepper and salt to taste, 4 tablesijoonfuls of oil, 1 of tar- 
ragon, and 1 of plain vinegar, chervil, garden cress and tar- 
ragon. 

Wash two heads of lettuce, dry them thoroughly, and break 
the leaves or cut them into convenient pieces. Put the yolks 
of two hard-boiled eggs into a basin with a teaspoonful of 
French mustard, pepper and salt to taste, and a tablespoonful 
of oil ; work the mixture into a smooth paste, and add conse- 
cutively three tablespoonfuls of oil, one of tarragon, and one 
of plain vinegar ; then a little chervil, garden cress, apd tar- 
ragon finely chopped. Stir the mixture well, and lastly add 
the lettuce ; turn it or work it well. Garnish the top with hard' 
boiled eggs. 



138 MRS. CLARK?:'S COOKERY BOOK. SaI.ADS. 

457- POTATO SALAD (1).—Tngreflients— Shallot, some cold 
l)oile(l potatoes, i} parts of oil to one part of tarragon vinegar, 
pepper and salt to taste, and a small (lu.antity of any of the 
following : powdered sweet herbs, mint, parsley, chervil, 
tarragon or capers. 

Rub a dish with shallot ; dispose on it some cold boiled 
potatoes cut in slices ; beat to;;ethcr three parts of oil and one 
part, more or less according to the strength of it, of tarragon 
vinegar, with pepper and salt to taste. Pour this over the 
potatoes, and strew over all a small quantity of any of the 
following: powdered sweet herbs, mint, parsley, cliervii, tar- 
ragon or capers, or a combination of them all, finely minced. 

458. DO- (2). — Inijredients— Cold boiled potatoes, nnchovies, cap- 

ers, tarragon or powdered sucet herbs, plain salad dressing 
as above, shallot, hard boiled eggs. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in small cubes. Bone and fillet a 
few anchovies and chop them up, take the same quantity of 
capers, mix all together with some finely-minced tarragon or 
powdered sweet herbs, and a plain salad dressing as above. 
Put on a dish rubbed with shallot, and make a border round it 
of pieces of hard-boiled eggs. 

459. DO- (3)- — Ingredients — Five cold boiled potatoes, J^ a small 

beetroot, i a Spanish onion, .'J inches of pickled ciicntnber, 
salad dressing as al)Ove, a little English mustard, s wet t pow- 
dered herbs, hard boiled eggs. 

Take four or five cold boiled potatoes, half a small beetroot, 
half a small Spanish onion plainly boiled, and about three 
inches of pickled cucumber. Cut them all in slices and ar- 
range them on a dish. Pour over them a salad dressing as 
above, adding a little English mustard to it, and strsw powder- 
ed sweet herbs over. Serve with a border of hard boiled eggs 
cut in slices. 

4GQ, So. (4). — Ingredients — Half a dozen well-washed anchovies, 
2 hard-boiled eggs, a df ssertspoonful of French Miistard, a 
sprig or two of tarragon, salad oil, pepper and lemon juice 
to taste, salt, minced truffles, a dish of cold lx)iled potatoes. 

Pound half a dozen well-washed anchovies in a mortar, 
with two hard-boiled yolks of eggs, a dessertspoonful of F'-ench 
musiard, and a sprig or two of tarragon, then gradually work 
in salad oil, add pepper and lemon juice to taste, and salt if 
necessary. Strain the sauce over a dish of sliced cold boiled 
potatoes, and strew over all plenty cf minced truffles. 

461. SAZ<AD (LoTsSter).— Iiigi'cdients — Lettuces, endives, beet- 
roots, dressing, 4 tablespoonfuls of oil, 2 of vinegar, 1 tea- 



Salads. mrs. clarkes cookery book. 139 



spoonful of made mustard, yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, ^ of a 
teaspouiiful of anchovy sauce, cayenne, salt, I hen lobster, 
2 hard-boiled eggs. 

Clean thoroughly some lettuces, end'ves and beetroots', cut 
them up and mix iheni with the followhig dressinj.^ : four table- 
spoonfuls of oil, two ditto of vinegar, one teaspoonful of made 
mustard, the yolks of two eggs, half a teHspoonlul of anchovy 
sauce, and cayenne and salt. Pick out from the shells the 
flesh of one hen lobster, cut into well-shaped pieces, put half 
in the salad and garnish with the rest, also with the whites of 
two hard-boiled eggs c'.opped fine, and the yolks mixed with 
the coral and rubbed through a sieve. 

402. SALAD (Sardine)'— Iiio'i'Pf^it'rits— 3 sardines for each person, 
2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful each of French mustard, and essence of 
aufliovies, strained oil from a box of sardines, adding enough 
Lucca oil to make tia-ee tablespoonfu.s in all, t!)iili, shalot, 
and good malt vinegar to taste, lettuce, mustard and cresa, 
some red capsicum. 

Allow three sardines for each person ; bone and fillet these, 
carefully removing all the skin, and set them aside until re- 
quired. Boil wo eggs for three minutes ; shell them and 
break them up in your salad bowl with a spoon ; mix with 
them a teaspoonful each of French mustard and essence of 
anchovies, the strained oil from the tin of sardines with as 
much Lucca oil as will make three tablespoonfuls in all ; add 
Chili, shalot, and good malt vinegar to taste (vinegar varies so 
much in acidity that it is difficult to specify the exact pro- 
portion). Cut up some nice crisp lettuce, and mix it well with 
the dressing, but only just before it is to be served. Put a 
little heap of mustard and cress in the centre of the salad, 
with a whole red capsicum upon it. Arrange the sardines 
round, and outside these a border of mustard and cress, dot- 
ted here and there with thin slices of red capsicums. 

463. Do- (Anchovy). 

The anchovies sold in bottles, ready filleted and preserved 
in oil, will be found most convenient for this. Make the salad 
as for sardines, only omitting the essence of anchovies. The 
eggs may be boiled hard, the yolks used for the dressing, and 
the whites cut in rings and filled with mustard and cress. 

4=fii. Do- (GamO)- — ingredients — Cold grouse, partridge or pheas- 
ant, pepper, salt, juice of a lemon, about 2 tablespoonfuls 
of frcsli salad oil, lettuce, salad sauce, hard-boiled eggs, fillets 
of anchovies, sprigs of parsley. 

Gold grouse, partridge or pheasant may be used in this w&yi 



140 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Salads. 

Cut them into joints, and put them into a pie dish ; season 
with salt and pepper, and pour ver them the juice of a lemon 
and about two tablespoonfuls of very fresh salad oil ; let them 
remain in this for three or four hours. Having cut up and 
well dried a fresh lettuce, place it on a flat dish and arrange 
the pieces of game which have been in the oil and lemon juice 
neatly in the centre ; over the game pour a salad sauce, which 
should be of the consistency of thick cream. Ornament the 
top with slices of hard-boiled egg, fillets of well-washed and 
scraped anchovies, and garnish with tiny sprigs of parsley. 
Cold chicken, or the white meat from a cold turkey cut into 
small pieces, may be treated in this way. Cold salmon or tur- 
bot are also excellent. 

465. SALAD (Tomato). — Ingredient3 — Some good-iized toma- 

tuc.<, two parts of oil to one of vinegar, pepper and salt to 
taste, a few leaves of basil, some onions. 

Peel some good-sized tomatoes, not over ripe, cut them in 
slices and remove the pips, lay them in a dish with nil and 
vinegar in the proportion of tv.-o to one, sprinkle pepper and salt 
over them accurding to taste, a few leaves of basil finely 
minced, and some onions very finely sliced. They should lie 
in the sauce for a couple of hours before serving. 

466. !D0- (Sflfff)- — Ingredients — Hard-boiled eggs, chopped parsley, 

pepper, lalt, vinegar, and oil. 

Slice hard-boiled eggs, and dress them with chopped par- 
sley, salt, pepper, vinegar, and oil. They must, of course, be 
very cold before they are sliced. 

467. DO- (EiTlSi3ia.ll)-— Ingredients— Carrots, turnips, butter, beet- 

root, truffles, asparagus points, haricot beans, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of capers, 2 do. of trench pickled gherkins and ancho- 
vies, 2 doz. stoned olives, 1 tablespoonful of tarragon and 
chervil, half that quantity of chives, sauce as follows — The 
raw yolks of some eggs, oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, some 
savory jelly, hard boiled eggs, caviare, lobster spawn, oliTes, 
pickles, truffles, etc. 

Boil some carrots and some turnips in salted water with a 
Small piece of butter, but do not let them be overdone; when 
cold cut out of them, with a vegetable scoop, a number of pieces 
the size of an olive ; cut some beetroot in the same way, and 
likewise some truffles. Take equal parts — say a cupful — of each 
of the above, and a similar quantity of preserved fresh (not 
dried) haricot beans ready cooked, and of asparagus points 
preserved in the same way. Two tablespoonfuls respectively 
of capers, of French pickled gherkins, cut into the shape of 
fcapers) and of anchovies^ perfectly cleaned, and cut into gmaU 



Salads. Mrs, Clarke's cookery book. 141 



pieces ; a couple of dozen or more olives stoned, one table- 
spoonful of tarragon and chervil minced fine, and half that 
quantity of chives, also minced. Mix the whole lightly together 
into a sauce made with raw yolks of eggs, oil, vinegar, pepper, 
and salt, well worked together (proportions of oil to vinegar 
three to one). Dress within a border of savory jelly, and or- 
nament with hard-boiled eggs, caviare, lobster spawn, olives, 
pickles, truffles, etc. 

468. pAT.A'n (BfiOtrOOt).— Ingredients— Beets, vinegar, salt, pep- 

per, faugar, mustard, 1 tablcspoouful of oil to 4 of vinegar. 

Put the beets into a saucepan, and allow to boil until tender; 
then scrape clean. Drop them into a pan of cold water for 3 
or 4 minutes to cool them ; slice thinly and dress with the re- 
maining ingredients. This salad will keep not more than two 
days. 

N.n. This salad must be allowed to stand covered for two 
hours before serving. 

469. Do- (Oolflry). — ingredients — 2 heads of celery, 1 tablespoonful 

of salad oil, lialf a teacup vinegar, a teaspoouful of granu- 
lated sugar, pepper and salt to taste. 

Well wash the celery, removing any unsightly parts, lay in 
iced water until wanted; tiien cut into pieces about an inch in 
length. Season with remaining ingredients, mix well and serve 
in salad bowl. 

470. Do (Red OaTDlsag'O^- — ingredients — One small red cabbage, 1 

small tleast'itypouiiful of suit, i pint of vinegar, 1^ dessert- 
spoonsful oil, a little cayenne pepper. 

Secure a nice fresh cabbage, remove the outer leaves and cu 
the cabbage info nice thin slices, then mix in the above ingre- 
dients and allow to stand for two days when it will be fit for use. 
This salad will keep good for several days. 

•t7i. Rov. Sydney Smith's Receipt for Salad Dressing. 

"Two boiled potatoes, strained through a kitchen sieve, 
Softness and smoothness to the salad give; 
Of mordant mustard take a single i^poon — 
Distrust the condiment that bites too soon, 
A'et deem it not, thou man of taste, a fault 
To add a double quantity of salt ; ^ 

Four times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, 
And twice with vinegar jn-ocured I'rom town ; 
True taste requires it, and your poet begs 
The pounded yellow of two well boiled eggs. 



T4 2 MRS. CLARKE'S COOKERY BOOK. SaLADS. 



Let onions' atoms lurk within the bowl, 
And, scarce suspected, animate the whole : 
And, lastly, in the flavored compound toss 
A magic spoonful of anchovy sauce. 
Oh! great and glorious, and herbaceous treat, 
'Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat ; 
Back to the world he'd turn his weary sou!, 
And plunge his fingers in the salad bowl." 

472. SAZ«AS (Oyster) — Inf,'rcdients— l tin of oysters containing 
about a quart, 1 head of celery, 1 tablespoonfulof oil, 1 small 
teaspoonfnl of salt, made mustard and pepper, 3 dessertspoon- 
fuls of cider rinegar, a pinch of white sugar. 

Strain off the liquor from the oysters and cut them up (do 
not chop them), mince the celery and blend with the oysters. 
Mix the remaining ingredients, putting in the vinegar last, then 
pour over the celery and aysters. Stir well, and serve directly, 
as this salad will not keep long. 



pickl.es. 



OBSERVATIONS ON PICKLES. 

Enamelled kettles should always be used in preference to 
those of brass or copper, as the verdigris produced by the 
vinegar on these metals is extremely poisonous. For some 
pickles use cold vinegar, as in boiling most of the strength 
is lost by evaporation. For French beans, brocoli, cauli- 
flowers, gherkins, etc., it is better to heat the vinegar, for 
which the following process is recommended : — Put the 
vinegar and spice in a jar, cover it tightly, let it simmer on 
the back of the stove or on a trivet. Shake occasionally. 
Pickles should never be put into glazed jars, as salt and 
vinegar penetrate the glaze, which is poisonous. 

Glass or sione jars are preferable to any other ; a small 
piece of alum ii each jar will make the pickles firm and 
crisp. One tablespoonful of sugar to each quart of vine- 
gar will be found a very great improvement to all pickles. 
Always use the very best cider or wine vinegar. 



474. OITIONS (!)• — Ingredients— Oniois, best white wine vinegai\ 

allspice and whole black pepper. 

In the month of September, choose the small white round 
onions, take off the brown skin, have ready a very nice tin stew- 
pan of bailing water, throw in as many onions as will cover 
the top ; as soon as they look clear on the outside, take them 
up as quick as possible with a slice, and ley them on a clean 
cloth, cover them close v/ith anotlier, and scald some more, 
and so on. Let them lie to be cold, then put them in ajar, or 
glass, or wide-moulhed bottles, and pour over them the best 
white wine vinegar, just hot but not boi'linfj. To each gallon 
of vinegar add one ounce of al'^pice and one of black pepper. 
When cold, cover them. Should the outer skin shrivel, peel 
it off. They must look quite clear. 

475. Do. (2). — Ingredients — Onions, rinegar, allspice, whole' black 

pppper. 

To each quart of vinegar allow a dessertspoonful of allspice 
and one of whole black pepper ; take off the outer skin with 



t44 MRS. CLA*K«*S COOKERY BOOK. PlCKLES. 



the fin^'ers, the next skin should be taken off with a plated or 
silver knife ; it may be found necessary to remove a third skin 
if the onions do not look perfectly clear. As the onions are 
prepared drop them into jars ; then cover with cold vinegar, 
adding allspice and whole pepper as directed ; cover very 
tightly and in three weeks they will be ready for use. This is 
a most excellent receipt for onions. They should be eaten with- 
in six or seven months, as they will not be crisp after that 
time. 

■i76. WALNUTS-— Ingredients— Fifty walnuts {seasonable for 
pickling early in July). To each pint of vinegar allow 1 oz. of 
black pepper, half an ounce of allspice, and half an ounce of 
bruised giuger. 

Prick the walnuts with a fork, and put them in a brine (com- 
posed of one pound of salt, to each quart of water). Let them 
remain in this nine days, changinj^ the brine three times. Put 
them in the sun until they turn black ; put them into jars, al- 
lowing sufficient room to cover them with vinegar ; boil (or 
scald) vinegar and spices in the above proportions. Cover 
closely and keep dry. They can be used in six weeks. 

'177. JUMBO PICKLE.— Ingredients— Cabbage, salt, onion, pep- 
per and oelery seed, strong vinegar. 

Take a head of cabbage ; chop fine, sprinkle with salt ; let it 
remain thus for twelve hours; then mi.x an onion finely minced 
with the cabbage ; drain through a cullender ; add a good 
quantity of pepper and celery seed. Put it in a jar and cover 
with vinegar. Ready for use in three days. 

478. RED OABBA&E-— Ingredients— Cabbage, beetroot, vinegar, 

spice. 

Slice it into a cullender, and sprinkle each layer with salt ; 
let it drari two days, then put it into ajar, and pour hot vine- 
gar enough to cover, and put a few slices of red beet-root. 
Observe to choose the purple red cabbage. Those who like 
the flavor .»f spice will boil it with the vinegar. Cauliflower 
cut in branches, and thrown in after being salted, will look of 
a beautiful red. 

479. MUSHROOMS-- Ingredients— Button mnshrooms, pepper. 

mace, salt and vinegar. 

Buttons must be rubbed with a bit of flannel and salt ; and 
from the larger take out the red inside, for when they are 
black they will not do, being too old. Throw a little salt 
over, and put them into a stewpan with some mace and 
pepper ; as the liquor comes out, shake them well, and keep 
them over a gentle fire till all of it be dried into them again ; 



PicRLfeS. Mrs. Clarke's CooklrV hook. t45 



then put as much vinegar into the pan as will cover them, give 
it one warm, and turn all into a glass or stone jar. They 
will keep two years, and are delicious. 

480. LSMOITS- — Ingredients — Lemons, salt, vinegar, rape vine- 

gar, Jamaica pepper and ginger, mustard seed, garlic. 

They should be small, and with a thick rind ; rub them with 
a piece of flannel ; then slit them half down in four quarters, 
but not through to the pulp ; fill the slits with salt hard pressed 
in, set them upright in a pan for four or five days, until the 
salt melts ; turn them thrice a day in their own liquid, until 
tender; make enough pickle to cover them, of rape vinegar, 
the brine of the lemons, Jamaica pepper and ginger ; boil and 
skim it ; when cold, put it to the lemons, with two ounces of 
mustard seed, and two cloves of garlic to six lemons. When 
the lemons are used, the pickle will be useful in fish or other 
sauces. 

481. OAFEBS- — Ingredients — Vinegar, capers. 

Add fresh vinegar that has been scalded, and become cold, 
and tie them close to keep out the air, which makes them 
soft. 

482. OUOXJMSEBS- — Ingredients— Cucumbers, pepper, ginger, 

vinegar. 

Cut the cucumbers into slices about half an inch thick ; 
sprinkle with salt, and let them remain twenty-four hours, then 
drain for seven hours. Pour the hot vinegar over them. Keep 
them in a warm place for a short time. Tie >.hem down with 
bladder and you may use them in a few days. 

483. FIOALILLI. — Ingredients — Small cucumbers, button onions, 

small bunches of cauliflower, carrots, ginger, grapes, strips 
of horse-radish, radishes, bean pods, cayenne pods, 4 quarts 
of white wine vinegar, 4 tablcspoonfuls of salt, mustard and 
flour, 2 tablespooniuls of ground ginger, pepper, allspice and 
turmeric. 

The brine for this pickle is made by putti ig a pint of rock 
salt into a pail of boiling water. Put the vegetables for pick- 
ling into the brine and cover tightly to prevent the steam es- 
caping. Allow them to stand a night and a day. Change 
the brine a second time and allow them to remain the same 
length of time. The second brme may be used a second time 
if skimmed and scalded. Choose pickles from the brine of an 
equal size and of various colors. Great (aste may be displayed 
in the arrangement of the pickles when putting them in bot- 
tles. To four quarts of white wine vinegar add the spices. 
Simmer these together (the mustard and tui r.ieric must be 

J 



14<5 Mrs. cLarke's cookery 6ooK. f ickles. 

blended together with a little vinegar before they are added to 
the liquor) ; when the liquor is on the point pf boiling, pour 
into a vessel ; cover tightly. When sufficiently cold pour into 
the bottles containing the pickle, and make air-tight. It will 
be ready for use in five or six months. 

484. EGO'S. — Ingredients — Thii'ty-two eggs, 2 quarts of vinegar, 

1 oz. of black pepper, 1 oz. of Jamaica pepper, 1 oz. of gin- 
ger. 

Boil the eggs hard (ten or twelve minutes would be suffi- 
cient time). Dip them in a pan of cold water for a minute 
to prevent them turning black, and remove the shells. Allow 
the remaining ingredients to simmer gently in a saucepan for 
ten minutes or a quarter of an hour. Put the eggs into your 
pickling jar and pour over the boiling vinegar, pepper and 
ginger. Let them stand till cold and make air tight. Ready 
for use from a month tc six weeks. 

485. BEETS' — Ingredients — Vinegar, beets, 2 oz. of whole pepper, 

2 oz. of allspice to every gallon of vinegar. 

Carefully remove all dirt from the beets. Let them simmer 
in boiling water for one hour and a half, then take them out 
and leave to cool. Boil the remaining ingredients for ten or 
fifteen minutes and leave to cool. When cold pour it over the 
beets (which you have previously pared and cut into thin 
slices). Make air-tight and they will be ready for eating in a 
week or ten days. 



v» -"■*■- 



OBSERVATIONS ON EGGS. 

As a rule the quality of eggs largely depends upon the 
food given to the hen. The eggs of the common hen or 
barn door fowl are esteemed most delicate when new laid, 
and for invalids they are exceedingly nutritious beaten up 
raw. The white of the egg, from its tendency to coagulate 
into a hard and indigestible substance, is likely to disagree 
with some invalids when the yolk may prove perfectly harm- 
less. About one-third of the entire weight of an egg may 
be regarded as nitrogenous and nutritious matter ; a 
greater proportion than that of meat, which is rated at only 
from 25 % to 28 %. The lightest way of cooking them 
is by poaching. It is a good plan in testing new laid eggs 
to apply the tongue to the large end of the egg, and if per- 
fectly fresh will feel warm, or they can be held to the light 
and if perfectly clear will be good ; or try them in water— the 
freshest will sink first. Always keep them in a cool place. 

It is said that covering eggs with a solution of beeswax 
m warm olive oil (one-third of beeswax, two-thirds of olive 
oil) will keep them fresh for two years. 

The following recipe has been used by an old house- 
keeper for about fourteen years, and has never been known 
to fail : To five quarts of water put one pound of salt, and 
one ounce of saltpetre; boil them ten minutes, and when 
nearly cold add four spoonfuls of unslacked lime. Let this 
stand two days, stirring it very frequently, then put your 
eggs into a pipkin {i.e., a large earthern jar with straight 
sides, about a foot or more deep), the narrow end of the 
egg downwards, and pour the mixture over when it is clear. 



486. POAOHBD BCJ-G-S (on Toaat).— Ingredients— Two or more 
eggs, salt, vinegar, peppercorns, leaves of parsley, hot buttered 
toast. 

If tUe eggs are not new laid, they will not poach well. Fill 
a shallow saut^-pan with water and salt quantum suff., add a little 

M7 



148 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. £ggs. 

vinegar, a ftw peppercorns, and some leaves of parsley. When 
the water is on the point of boiling (it should never be allowed 
to boil) break two or more eggs into it (according to the size of 
the pan), and put on the cover ; when done, take them out care- 
fully, brush them clean on both sides with a paste brush, and 
cut each egg with a round fluted paste cutter, so as to get 
them of a uniform shape, lay them on slices of hot buttered 
toast, and serve. 

487. POACHED EGQ-S (on Ham toast).— Ingredients— Buttered 

tuust, giatod liuiii, i)oat:lu/d I'ggs, 

Make some buttered toast, and cut it in pieces of uniform 
shape, spread over them a small quantity of grated ham, then 
put a poached egg on each piece of toast, and serve hot. 

488. Do- (aulSplaaoll).—Iugrodioiit8— Poached eggs, 2 or 3 lbs- 

of spinach, Imtter, a pinch of Hour, pepper aud salt to taste, 
milk, fried sippets. 

Poach the eggs as aljove, and serve on a purde made as fol- 
lows ; Pick and wash perfectly clean two or three pounds of 
spinach, put it into a saucepan with a. little water, and let it 
boil till quite done, turn it out on a hair sieve to drain, squeeze 
the water out, and pass the spinach through the sieve. Put a 
good lump of butter into a saucepan, fry it a light brown, add 
a pinch of flour, mix well, put in the spinach, pepper and salt 
to taste, and a little milk, stir well, dispose the spinach on a 
dish, laying the poached eggs on the top of it, and a border of 
fried sippets round it. 

489. Do- (and Minced Ollicaon) — ingredients— Remnants of 

fowl, e(|ual (piantity of ham or tongue, trutlles or mushrooms, 
butter, a pinch of Hour, white pepper, salt, and powdered 
spices, wliite stock, yolk of an egg, juice of half a lemon, 
bread sippets, poached eggs. 

Take some remnants of fowl, free from skin, etc., mince 
them with an equal quantity of ham or tongue, as well as a 
small quantity of truffles or mushrooms, all finely minced ; toss 
the whole in a saucepan with a good sized piece of butter mix- 
ed with a pinch of flour, add white pepper, salt, and powdered 
spices to taste, and moisten with a little white stock ; lastly, 
stir in, off the fire, the yolk of an egg beaten up with the juice 
of half a lemon and strained ; serve within a border of bread 
sippets fried in butter, and dispose the poached eggs on the 
top. 

490. Do- (on a Pure© of Game)-— ingredients— Carcases of roast 

game, ^ an onion, a carrot, a bay-leaf, a small piece of celery, 
a couple of cloves, a little mace, some whole pepper, a large 



Eggs. mbs. clarke's cookery book. 149 



pinch of salt, common stock, ^ lb. lean beaf, butter, poached 

eggs, fried sippets. 
Take any carcases of roast game— say three snipe or two 
partridges — cut them up into convenient pieces, and pack them 
into a saucepan with half an onion, a carrot, a bay leaf, a 
small piece of celery, a couple of cloves, a little piece of mace, 
some whole pepper, and a large pinch of salt ; pour in just 
enough common stock to cover the contents ; let the whole boil 
for a couple of hours, strain the liquor and put it by ; take half 
a pound of lean beef, chop it up and pound it in a mortar with 
all the flesh that can be picked out of the pieces of game, then 
pass the whole through a sieve, moistening now and then with 
some of the liquor ; lastly, heat the purde, correct the flavoring 
if necessary, stir in a piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut, 
and serve with fried sippets round and poached eggs on the 
top. 

491. EQ'CI'S (au Gratia)- — Ingredients— Hard-boiled eggs, butter, 

grated Parmesan cheese, black pepper, powdorod nutmeg, 
baked bread-crumba. 
Cut some hard-boiled eggs in slices, and lay them on a well- 
buttered dish, with grated Parmesan cheese, black pepper, 
and the least bit of powdered nutmeg ; sprinkle some baked 
bread-crumbs over all, put the dish in the oven, and serve as 
the contents begin to color. 

492. S0< (Stuffod)- — Ingredients — Hard-boiled eggs, olives, capers, 

anchovies, truffle trimmings, tarragon, butter, pepper, sip- 
pets of bread. 

Cut some hard-boiled eggs in half, mince the yolks with a 
few olives and capers, some anchovies thoroughly washed, a 
few trufifle trimmings, and a little tarragon, add some pepper, 
and fill each half-egg with this mixture. Pour some liquefied 
butter over, and warm them in the oven. Then place each 
half-egg on a round sippet of bread Cried in butter to a light 
yellow color, and serve. 

403. DO- (Ste'TTOA).— Ingredients— Spanish onions, butter, flour, 
cream or milk, pepper and salt to taste, grated nutmeg, 
hard-boiled eggs, bread sippets. 

Cut some Spanish onions in slices, and fry them in plenty 
of butter till they are quite done without taking color, add a 
small quantity of flour, and when this is amalgamated with the 
butter moisten with a due quantity of cream, or simply rtiUk, 
then add some pepper and salt to taste, a little grated nutmeg, 
and a quantity — equal in bulk to the onions — of hard-boiled 
eggs cut in slices. Let the whole simmer gently till quite hot, 
and serve with bread sippets fried in butten 



150 MUS. CLAKKIC'S COOKERY BOOK. ECGS. 

494. BOOS (a la Souljiae).— Ingre<^i'''»t9— Onlon», milk, pepper, 
Halt, mituicg, buttor, Hour, cream or milk, hard-boilvu eggs. 

Boil some onions in milk with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; 
when quite done pass them through a sieve. Put some butter 
into a saucepan with a little (lour, when the butter is melted 
and well mixed with the flour put in the onion pulp, and add 
cither milk or cream until the sauce is of the proper consist- 
ence, then add hard-boiled eggs cut in half, and as soon as 
they are quite hot serve. 

405. Do- (a la MaltrO D'HotoD—Ingredienta— Hard -boiled 
eggs, butter, pepper, salt, minced parsley, lemon juice, 

Cut some hard-boiled eggs in half, toss them in butter till 
quite hot, add pepper, salt, minced parsley, and a little lemon 
juice, and serve. 

490. Do- (with Sorrel)-— Ingiedients— Eggs, sippets of broad, 
butter, sorrel, salt, a tablespoonful of llour, pepper and salt 
to taste, cold stock. 

Boil a number of eggs in their shells for three or four min- 
utes, then dip them into cold water, carefully remove the shells, 
and place them again in hot water to make them quite hot ; 
drain, and serve them on the following puree with sippets of 
bread fried in butter round the dish : Pick and wash a quan- 
tity of sorrel, put it into a saucepan with a little water and some 
salt, when thoroughly done drain off all the moisture and pass 
the sorrel through a hair sieve. Amalgamate a piece of butter 
and a tablespoonful of flour in a saucepan on the fire, put in 
the sorrel and stir well for some minutes, then add pepper 
and salt to taste, and the yolk of one egg beaten up with a 
little cold stock and strained. 

497. DO- (In Oases)- — ingredients— Paper cases, butter, pariley, 
pepper, salt, cayenne, eggs, a teaspoonful of grat«d Parme- 
san, a sprinkling of baked bread-crumbs. 

Oil some" small paper cases as for ramakins, put into each a 
piece of butter the size of a hazel nut, with a small pinch of 
minced parsley, some pepper, salt, and the least pinch of cay- 
enne. Break an egg into each case, add a teaspoonful of 
grated Parmesan and a sprinkling of baked bread-crumbs. 
Put the cases in the oven for about five minutes and serve. 
They may also be so prepared, a number at a time, in a silver 
dish, and served ia it. 

493. BUTTSSJED BOOS- — Ingredients— Four eggs, 2 oz. of but* 
ter, 2 tablcspoonfuls of cream, a little grated tongue, pepper 
and salt to taste, pieces of buttered toast. 

^reak four eggs into a basin^ and beat them well ; put i^d 



Eggs. mrs. ci.arkk's cookery dook. 151 



ounces of butter and two tablespoonfuls of cream into a sauce- 
pan ; add a little prated tongue, pepper and salt to taste, when 
quite hot add the eggs, stir till nearly set, then spread the mix- 
ture on pieces ')f buttered toast and serve. 

400 FXIZZS ZGQS (I)-— Ingredients— Butter, eggs, popper, salt. 
Melt a piece of butter in a small frying pan, break two eggs 
in it carefully so as not to break the yolks ; when nearly set, 
trin» the edges of the whites and slip them out on a hot dish, 
pour the butter over thtm, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and 
serve. 

500. SO- (2).— Oil, dripping or lard, egga. 

Put a good allowance of either oil, dripping, or lard in a 
frying pan ; when quite hot break an egg into it, and as soon 
as the white begins to set turn it over dexterously with the 
slice, so as completely to cover the yolk. The eggs must be 
fried one by one, and as one is done it must be carefully taken 
up and laid in front of the fire to drain and keep hot. 

501. Do. ("^th Blaok Butter) —ingredients— Butter, eggs, 

tarragon vinegar, minced pafsJey, salt and pepper. 

Fry thera in butter as above, leave the butter in the frying 
pan over the fire till it is nearly black, add a few drops of tar- 
ragon vinegar, some minced parsley, a little salt and pepper. 
Pour over the eggs and serve. 

602. Do. (TTlth Tomatoes). — ingredient* — Butter, French tomato 
sauce, pepper and salt to taste, fried eggs. 

Melt a small piece of butter in a saucepan, put to it a small 
quantity of French tomato sauce, add pepper and salt to taste, 
and wheo quite hot turn it out on a dish, disposing on it the 
eggs fried in butter. 

503. Do. (Vlth BftOOn)' — Ingredients —Thin slices of streaky 

bacon, fried eggs. 

Cut some thin slices of streaky bacon, cut off the rind and 
trim them ; put them into a frying pan on the fire, and turn 
them often until quite hot, then roll up each slice, make a bor- 
der ef them round the fried eggs in the dish. 

504. Do. (with Hafil)-— Ingredients — A slice of ham, fried eggs. 
Trim a slice of ham, and either grill it on a clear fire or toast 

it in front of it. Serve with the fried eggs on it. 

605. SOBASCBZiED EGGS —Ingredients— Four eggs, sali and 
pepper to taste, 1 oz. of butter, finely minced parsley. 

Beat up four eggs, with salt and pepper to taste ; put an 
fttihce 6f buttet- into a saucepan-, directly it is melted put itt thft 



15a MRS. Clarke's COOKERY BOOK. Eggs. 

eggs, and keep constantly stirring with a spoon until they are 
nearly set, adding at the last a little finely-minced parsley. 

506. SCRAMBLED EGGS (with ABparagms).— Ingredienta— 

Asparagus points, salted water, butter, scrambled eggs. 

Parboil some asparagus points, cut the size of peas, in salted 
water, drain them and toss them in a little butter till quite hot. 
Scramble some eggs as in the preceding recipe, and when 
nearly set add the asparagus points instead of the parsley. 

507. SO- (with Tomatoes)- — ingredients— Four eggs, 1 table- 

Bpoonful of French tomato sauce, or 1 large tomato, scram- 
bled eggs. 

Beat up four eggs with a tablespoonful of French tomato 
sauce, or one large tomato, peeled, freed from pips, and 
chopped small, and proceed as above. 

608. Do, (with Oaioas)— Ingredients— 2 slices of Sjianish onion, 
butter, 4 eggs, pepper and salt to taste. 

Take two slices of Spanish onion, and chop them coarsely ; 
put them into a saucepan with plenty of butter, and when they 
are thoroughly cooked, without having taken any color, throw 
in four eggs beaten together with pepper and salt to taste ; 
keep on stirring till the eggs are nearly set, and then serve 
N.B. — Equal parts of tom.atoes and onions may be cooked to- 
gether, and then the eggs added. 

509. DO- (with Fish). — Ingredients— Remnants of fish, 4 eggs, 

pepper and salt to taste, finely minced parsley. 

Pick out the meat of any remnants of fish, such as salmon, 
turbot, eod, haddock, or whiting, and with a silver fork break 
it up small ; take two tablespoonfuls of this and four eggs ; beat 
the whole together with a little pepper and salt to taste, and a 
little parsley finely minced, then proceed as in No. 505. 

510. DO- (with EaXXl). — Ingredients— A tablespoonful of grated 

ham, 4 eggs, pepper to taste, butter. 

Beat up a tablespoonful of grated ham with four eggs, and 
pepper to taste ; put them into a saucepan with a piece of but- 
ter, and stir till nearly set. 

511. Do. (with Choose)- — ingredients— Pour eggs, 3 tablespoon- 

fuls of Parmesan cheese, a sprinkling of pepper. 

Put four eggs and three tablespoonfuls of Parmesan cheese 
into a basin with a sprinkling of pepper ; beat all together, and 
proceed as in the first recipe^ omitting the parsley. 



Eggs. mrs. clarke's cookery rook. 153 



512. SOBAIABLED SaOS (on Toast)- 

Any of the above may be served on slices of buttered toast, 
but if so served they must be even less set, at the time of serv- 
ing, than when served plain ; or neat bread sippets, fried in 
butter, ma;, ^e served round them. 

513. SXFFETS (Pried)-— lugrcilients — A loaf of bread, butter. 

Cut out of a loaf slices from a quarter to three-eighths of an 
inch thick, shape them into triangles or arrowheads all of a 
size ; put some butter in a frying pan, and when quits hot lay 
the sippets in it ; turn them frequently, adding more butter, as 
it is wanted, and taking care that they are all fried to the same 
golden color. A readier way, but producing not so nice a sip- 
pet, is to lay the pieces of bread in the frying basket, and dip it 
in a saucepan full of boiling fat. They must afterwards be laid 
in front of the fire to drain. 

514. OMELET (Plain)-— Ingredients— 3 or 4 eggs, 1 dessertspoon- 

ful of finely minced parsley, pepper and salt to taste, butter 
size of an egg. 

Beat up three or four eggs with one dessertspoonful of par- 
sley very finely minced, and pepper and salt to taste ; put a 
piece of butter, the size of an egg, into a frying pan, as soon as 
it is melted pour in the omelet mixture, and, holding the 
handle of the pan with one hand, stir the omelet with the otJier 
by means of a spoon. The moment it begins to set cease stih-- 
ing, but keep on shaking the pan for a minute or so ; then with 
the spoon double up the omelet and keep shaking the pan un- 
til {he under side of the omelet has become of a golden color. 
Turn it out on a hot dish and serve. 

515. Do- (Savory) —Ingredients— 3 or 4 eggs, ^ a shallot, pai-sley, 

asmail pirfch of powdered sweet herbs, pepper and salt to 
taste. 

Beat up three or four eggs with half a shallot very finely 
minced, some parsley similarly treated, and a very small pinch 
of powdered sweet herbs, add pepper and salt to taste ; then 
proceed as above. 

516. Do- (Ham or Bacon).- ingredients — Three or 4 eggs, 

1 heaped tablespoonful of ham or bacon, pepper to taste. 

Beat up three or four eggs with a heaped tablespoonful of 
ham or bacon, half lean and half fat, cut up to the size of very 
small dice ; add pepper to taste, and salt if necessary, and prO" 
^eed as above- 



154 MRS. Clarke's cookery dook. Eggs. 

517. OMELET (Olieese)— Ingredients— Three eggs, 1 or 2 table- 

epoonfula of rannesan cheese. 

Beat up three eggs with one or two tablespoonfuls of grated 
Parmesan cheese. Cook as above, and serve with some more 
grated cheese strewn over the omelet. 

518. Do. (Tomato, l)- — ingredients— Plain omelet mixture, 

tomato sauce. 

Add to a plain omelet mixture a small quantity of tomato 
sauce, mix well, then finish in the usual way. 

519. So. (Tomato. 2). — ingredients— Equal parts of sliced 

onions and tomatoes ; butter, pepper and salt, plain omelet. 

Take equal parts of sliced onions and tomatoes peeled and 
freed from pips, chop them both coarsely. Fry the onions in 
butter. When cooked, without being colored, add the toma- 
toes, with pepper ;md salt, and keep stirring the mixture on 
the fire till it forms a sort of puree. Make a plain omelet, and 
insert this in the fold on dishing it. 

520. DO- (Tomato. 3). — ingredients— Tomato sauce, potato flour, 

butter, pepper and salt to taste, savory or plain omelet. 

Take a little tomato sauce, add to it a little potato flour dis- 
solved in water, then put it into a saucepan with a piece of 
butter, and pepper and salt to taste. When quite hot and 
thickened turn it out on a dish, and on it place a savory or a 
plain omelet. There must not be too much sauce on the dish. 

521. DO- (Mushroom-) —Ingredients — Button mushrooms, white 

or brown sauce. (See fciauces. ) 

Parboil a small quantity of button mushrooms, slice them 
small, and stew them just long enough to cook them in a small 
quantity of either white or brown sauce ; then use as in pre- 
ceding recipe. 

522. DO- (PiflSl.)- Ingredients— 3 e^^gs, remnants of cold fish, 

minced parsley, pepper and salt to taste. 

Beat up three eggs with a quantity equal in bulk to one egg 
of the remnants ot any cold fish (salmon or turbot) finely 
shredded with a fork, a pinch t)f minced parsley, pepper and 
salt to taste. 

523. DO- (Oyster.) — ingredients— Oysters, butter, pinch of flour, 

cream, salt, pepper, nutmeg, least bit of cayenne, finely 

minced parsley, yolk of an egg, juice of ^ a lemon, plain 

omelet. 

Parboil some oysters in their own liquor, remove the beards, 

cut each oyster in four or six pieces ; melt a piece of butter in 

h saucepan, add to it a pinch of flour, the liquor of the oysters; 



Kggs. MRS. Clarke's cookery book. 155 

a little cream, salt, pepper, nutmeg, the least bit of cayenne, 
and some finely-minced parsley ; put in the oysters, and toss 
them in this sauce just long enough to make them quite hot ; 
stir into this off the fire the yolk of an egg beaten up with juice 
of half a lemon, and strained. Insert this in the fold of a plain 
omelet, or serve it round the omelet. 

"'24. SO. (Sldnoy.) — ingredients— Sheep's kidneys, butter, pepper 
and salt to taste, finely minced parsley, flour, white wine and 
stock, a squeeze of lemon. 

Parboil some sheep's kidneys, cut them in slices, and toss 
them in butter, with pepper and salt to taste, and some finely- 
minced parsley ; mix, in a saucepan, a small quantity of butter 
and flour, add equal quantities of white wine and stock, put in 
the kidneys, toss them until done, then add a squeeze of lemon 
and serve in or round the omelet. 

525. EO&S (to Seep Fresli for Several ^eeks). 

Fill a saucepan with three or four quarts of boiling water. 
Put two dozen eggs into a cabbage or onion net and hold them 
in the boiling water for twenty seconds. Continue this opera- 
tion until you have as many eggs as you wish to preserve. 
Have some sawdust in boxes and pack them in it. At the end 
of two or three months the eges will be found quite good 
enough for culinary purposes. Eggs can be kept lor a long 
time if the shells are smeared with butter or sweet oil, then 
packed in plenty of sawdust, not allowing the eggs to touch 
each other. Another way is to plunge them in lime water di- 
rectly they have been laid, and allow the vessel to stand in a 
cool cellar. Eggs for preserving should not be more than 
twenty-four hours old, and should be collected in fine weather. 
Take care the eggs are covered with the lime water, and it is a 
good plan to lay a piece of board on the top of the eggs with a 
little lime and salt upon it. 



KETCHUPS. 



526. MTJSHROOLI ZBTrHTJP.— Ingredicnts-To 2 gallons of 

mushrooms, ^ lb. salt ; to every quart of mushroom liquor, 
allow a small saltspoonful of cayenne, a teaspoonful of all- 
spice, a teaspoonful of ginger, 2 blades of pounded mace. 

Select some freshly gathered (gather in dry weather or 
else the ketchup will not keep), full-sized mushrooms. Lay in 
an earthenware pan in layers, first a layer of mushrooms and 
then one of salt, and so on until all are used. Allow them to 
stand a while (say five or six hours). Then break to pieces 
with the hand, place in the refrigerator for three days, stirring 
or mashing them occasionally. Extract as much juice as 
possible, measure the liquor without straining, adding to each 
quart the above mentioned spices. Pour into a stone jar, ex- 
clude the air ; place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water 
and allow to boil three hours. When this is done pour the 
contents of the jar into astewpan and allow it to simmer ^^«//y 
for half an hour. Pour into a vessel, place in refrigerator till 
the next day. Pour off into another vessel and strain. Have 
ready some clean dry bottles and to each pint of ketchup it is a 
great improvement to add a few drops of brandy ; pour into 
the bottles, taking care not to squeeze the mushrooms, and al- 
low the sediment to remain at the bottom of the vessel, (if 
wanted very clear and bright, the liquor must be strained after 
the above operation through a flannel bag). Cork and seal. 
Examine occasionally and if there is any sign of spoiling boil 
again with a few peppeofcorns. The sediment may be bottled 
for immediate use. 

527. lEMOlT KETOHTJP.— Ingredients— One dozen lemons, ^ a 

breakfast cupful of white mustard seed, 1 eggcupful of tur- 
meric and white pepper, ^ an eggcupful of cloves and mace, 
i a small toacupful of white sugar, 1 saltspoonful of cayenne, 
I a small teacupful of horse radish, ^ a small teacupful of 
salt, 4 shallots. 

Finely grate the rind of lemons, pound the spices in a mor- 
tar, grate tha horse-radish. Thoroughly blend these ingred- 
ients, then sprinkle the salt over all, extract the juice from the 
lemons and add to the mixture. Allow to stand in a cool 
place for three or four hours. Boil in an enamelled kettle 
thirty minutes, pour into a stone jar, cover tightly. Stir every 
>iay for fourteen days, then strain^ bottle and seal. 

i*;6 



{Cetchups. MRS. Clarke's cookery Book. 15^ 



528 TOMATO ZETOHTJP (1).— Ingredients— To 1 peck of 

tomatoes allow 1 tablespoonful of salt, mace, black pepper, 

cloves powdered, and one of celery seed ; a teaspoonful of 

cayenne, J lb. tin of mustard. 

Make a small incision in each tomato, put into an enamelled 

saucepan, and boil until perfectly soft, and the pulp dissolved ; 

work through a cullender, then through a hair sieve. Place 

upon the stove adding the remaining ingredients (the celery 

seed must be confined in a muslin bag), and boil six hours. 

Stir occasionally for the first five hours and all the last hour. 

Poui into a stone jar ; allow to stand from twelve to fourteen 

hours in a cool place. When perfectly cool add a pint of 

strong vinegar. Remove the celery seed ; bottle, cork, and 

seal. Exclude from the light. 

529. Do. (2). — Ingredients— Ripe tomatoes, to every lb. of juice 

add a pint of vinegar, a dessertspoonful of sliced garlic, a 
small teaspoonful of salt and white pepper. 

Take a number of ripe tomatoes ; place in a jar ; cover and 
bake till tender. Strain and work through a sieve, and add 
the above ingredients. Pour into a stewpan and boil until the 
ingredients are perfectly soft. Work through the sieve a 
second time and to every pound squeeze the juice of three 
lemons. Boil again until of the thickness of cream. Set 
aside to 'get cold. Bottle, cork and seal, and keep in a dry, 
dark place. 

530. WALNUT EBTOHUP. — Ingredients— Walnuts, salt, to 

every 2 quarts of walnut liquor allow 1 oz. each of allspice, 
ginger, black pepper, cloves, mace. 

Wash the shells of walnuts, bruize tliem slightly, put them 
with salt in a stone jar for two or three weeks until they fer- 
ment, then boil them up, strain off the liquor, add to every 
two quarts one ounce each of allspice, ginger, black pepper, 
cloves, and mace ; boil the whole one hour ; let it cool, bottle 
it, and tie a bladder over the corks. 

531. MUSTAUD (to make). 

Mix the best Durham flour of mustard by degrees with boil- 
ing water to a proper thickness, rubbing it perfectly smooth ; 
add a little salt, and keep it in a small jar closely covered, and 
put only as much into the glass as will be used soon, which 
should be wiped daily round the edges. 

532. Anotlior -way* for immediate use- 
Mix the mustard with new milk by degrees, to be quite 

smooth, and add a little raw cream. It is much softer this 
way, is not bitter, and will keep vvell. 



158 Mrs. Clarke's cookery book. ICetchupjj. 

533. PIIEITOH MUSTARD-— Ingredients— One quart of brown 

mustard seed, 1 handful each of parsley, chervil, tarragon 
and bumet, 1 teaspoonful of celery seed, cloves, mace, garlic. 
Salt to taste, enough wine vinegar to cover the mixture. 

Put the whole into a basin with enough wine vinegar to 
cover the mixture. Let it steep twenty-four hours, then pound 
it in a marble mortar. When thoroughly pounded pass it 
through a fine sieve ; add enough vinegar to make the mus- 
tard of the desired consistency, and put into jars for use. 

534. MZITT riSEQAR. 

Take a wide-mouthed bottle or bottles. Fill them (loosely) 
with nice fresh mint leaves, then add good vinegar to fill the 
bottle or bottles ; cork well. Allow to stand for two o** ?e 
weeks, and at the expiration of this time, strain in. ..esh 
bottles and cork securely. Useful when mint is not in season. 

535 HORSE-RADISH VllTE&AR. -Ingredients-Three oz. 
of scraped hoiae-radish, 1 oz. of minced shallot, 1 drachm of 
cayenne, 1 quart of vinegar. 

Pour the vinegar upon the above ingredients ; allow to stand 
ten days. This will be found exceedingly useful for cold joints, 
salads, &c., and a very economical relish. 

^536. An ezcellent substitute for Caper Sauco- 

Boil slowly some parsley to let it become a bad color, cut, 
but don't chop it line ; put it to melted butter, with a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and a dessertspoonful of vinegar. Boil up and 
serve. 

537. NASTURTIUM (for OapoM). 

Keep them a few days after they are gathered, then pour 
boiling vinegar over them, and when cold cover. They will 
not be fit to eat for some months, but are then finely flavored, 
and by many preferred to capers. 

638. OHILl VnTEaAR— Fifty fresh red Chilies, one pint of 

vinegar. 

Cut the Chilies in half, steep in the vinegar for a fortnight, it 
will then be ready for use, and will be found a very nice relish 
to fish. 

639. CHEROHEE. — Ingredients— One eggspoonful of cayenne, 5 

cloves of garlic, an eggcupful of soy, J an eggcupful of wal- 
nut ketchup, 1 pint of vinegar. 

Boil all the ingredients for half an hour. Strain, and bottle 
for use. Will keep good a long time. 

540. GREEN G00SEBERR7 OHUTNEE. -Ingredients-Two 
pints of nni'pe gooseberries or green npples, 3 oz mustard 



Kftchups. MRS. Clarke's cooRfiRY book, 159 



seed, 3 oz. powdered ginger, 5 oz. coarse sugar, 10 oz. rais- 

iuB, 3 oz, salt, 3 pints vinegar, 3 oz. garlic. 
Chop the gooseberries and the raisins (after being stoned) 
quite fine, also the onions and garlic almost to a paste ; add 
one ounce cayenne, and a proper quantity cf turmeric to make 
it a nice color. When well mixed, boil ten minutes or quarter 
of an hour, and rub through a sieve. 

541. SEUBS (to Dry)' 

Gather the herbs for drying before they begin to flower. 
Free from dirt and dust and tie in bunches having previously 
removed the roots. Dry in the oven or before the fire, in 
either case, dry quickly as the flavor is better preserved by 
quick drying. Upon no consideration allow them to burn. 
Tie up in paper bags and hang in a dry place. N. B. — Take 
care to gather the herbs on a dry day. 

542. MY MOTHER'S CHUTITBE— Ingredients-Half a lb. 

brown sugar. \ lb. salt, \ lb. garlic, \ lb. ouiona, \ lb. ginger, 
\ lb. mustard seed, or cayenne pepper, \ lb. raisins, stoned 
and chopped fine, 15 large apples (sour), 3 pints best vinegar. 

Boil the apples, onions, and garlic in the vinegar, rub this 
through a sieve, steep the mustard seed in vinegar, then shred 
it fine ; add all together and mix well. Bottle when cold. It 
is much more of a relish than pickles. 

543. HIMALAYA OHTTTNBE.—Tngredients— Eight lbs. green 

apples, 1 lb. sultana raisins, 1 lb. brown sugar, 1 oz. birds- 
eye chilies, 2 oz. whole mustard, 4 oz. garlic, 4 oz. coarse 
salt, IJ bottles brown vinegar. 

Chop all the ingredients very fine, then add the salt, vinegar, 
and sugar ; put in a jelly pan on a slow fire and let it stew till 
soft like a pulp. This is very good when bottled and well 
corked. 

644. HERB PCWDER (for Vriater use).— Ingredients— Take 
2 oz. each of winter savory, sweet marjoram, lemon, thyme, 
lemon peel and 4 oz. of parsley. 

Thoroughly dry the herbs and '.ake off the leaves. Grind to 
a powder and pass through a sieve. Dry the lemon peel and 
pound as finely as possible, then mix all together thoroughly. 
Keep in glass bottles tightly corked. 

545. PARSLEY (to keep for ^nter use). 

Take fresh bunches of parsley and plunge into boilir j water 
slightly salted, boiling for three or four minutes. Remove 
from the water, and drain dry very quickly before the fire, and 



i6o Mrs. Clarke's cookery book. Ketchum. 



put in bottles for use. Soak in tepid water five minutes when 
required for cooking. 

546. QAHLZO VZlTEaAA- 

Steep an ounce of garlic in t^vo quarts ol the best while 
wine vinsgar ; add a nutmeg scraped. This vinegar is much 
esteemed by the French. 

547. A USEFUL ZET0HT7F — Ingredients— Half pint of mush- 

room ketchup, ^ pint of walnut pickle, 2 tablcspooufuls of 
Chili vinegar, 2 shallots. 

Take one and a half pts. of freshly made mushroom ketchup, 
peel the shallots and add them to the ketchup and allow it to 
simmer for ten minutes, then add the pickle amd vinegar and 
boil again for ten minutes. Stand in a cool place, and when 
perfectly cold, bottle, and having placed a small piece of shal- 
lot in each bottle, cork and set by for use. 

548. OYSTER ZETOHTTP (without tllO liciUOD.-Ingredients 

— One pint of oysters, 1 pint of sherry, ."{ tablespoonfuls of 
salt, 1 drachm of cayenne, 2 drachms of ground mace. 

Be sure the oysters are perfectly fresh, reserve the liquor 
and put it, the oysters and sherry into a stewpan to scald. 
Strain and pound the oysters in a mortar wifli the seasoning. 
When pounded to a pulp add the oyster liquor and boil five 
minute;. Skim, work through a sieve, allow it to stand until 
perfectly cool, and it is ready to bottle. Cork well, and seal 
the orks. 



FORCEMEATS. 



OBSERVATIONS ON FORCEMEATS. 

Whether in the form of stuffing-balls or for patties, 
forcemeat makes a considerable part of good cooking, by 
the flavor it imparts to the dish it accompanies, and con- 
siderable care should be taken in cooking it. It is often 
the casfe, at many excellent tables where everything else is 
well done, to find very bad forcemeat or stuffing. 



549. rOROBMEAT (to force FoTTIs or Meat).— ingredients— 

A little ham or gammon, veal, or fowl, beef-suet, onion, par- 
sley, leraon-peel, salt, nutmeg, pounded mace, white pepper 
or cayenne, bread-crumbs, 1 or 2 eggs. 

Shred a little ham or gammon, some cold veal, or fowl, 
some beef-snct ; a small quantity of onion, some parsley, very 
little lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg or pounded mace, and either 
white pepper or cayenne, and bread-crumbs. Pound in a 
mortar, and bind it with one or two eggs beaten and f^Lrained ; 
or forcemeat patties the same mixture as above. 

550. 30- (for cold Savory Pie).— ingredients— As above. 

The same ; only substituting fat, or bacon, for suet. The 
livers (if the pie be of rabbit or fowls), mixed with fat and 
lean of pork, instead of bacon, and seasoned as above, is excel- 
lent. 

551. 3o. (Oommon, for Voal or Hare).— ingredients— i ib. of 

bread crumbs, 4 oz. of beef suet, tlie rind of half a lemon, 1 
tablespoonful of minced savory herbs, pepper and salt to 
taste, a little nutmeg, 2 eggs. 

Mince the lemon rind as fine as possible and blend with the 
other ingredients ; mix Well and bind with the beaten eggs. 

552. Bo. (for Pish Soups).— Ingredients— 1 lobster, 1 small head 
of celery, butter the size of an egg, a cupful of bread-crumbs, 
3 eggs, pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg. 

Pick the meat from the lobster and pound in a mortar, boil 
the celery until soft, drain, and mix with the lobster, bread- 
crumbs, seasoning, and the yolk of one hard-boiled egg. 



i6a MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Forcemeats. 



Pound well for a quarter of an hour, warnti (he butter, and mix 
with two beaten eggs ; add this to the lobster and other ingre- 
dients. Dip your hands in flour, form the mixture into little 
balls, fry in butter, and serve in fish eoup. 

553. rOROEMEAT (for Fowls).— I"«redients— Quarter lb. of 

suet, 2 oz. of ham, the grated rind of half a lemon, a dessert 
Bpoonful of minced parsley, 1 teaspoonfol of minc«d sweet 
herbs, cayenne, salt, grounded maue to taste, 7 oz. of bread- 
crumbs, 2 eggs. 

Cut the ham into small, thin strips, chop the suet finely, also 
the lemon peel ; add the seasoning, then the crumbs ; thor- 
oughly blend, and after the eggs have been well beaten add to 
the other ingredients, and it is ready for use. If wished for 
balls, fry a golden brown in hot lard. 

554. POROEMEAT BALLS (for Mock T'artlO). -Ingredients- 

Pounded veal, udder, or butter, bread-crumbs, milk, chopped 
parsley, shallot, yolks of .S hard-boiled eggs, pepper, salt, 
curry powder or cayenne, yolks of 2 uncooked eggw. 

Take the pounded veal and rub through a sieve, with an 
equal quantity of udder, or if there is no udder at hand one 
third of the quantity of butter will do instead. Then place the 
bread-crumbs into a stewpan and mix with a very small quan- 
tity of milk, enough to moisten it. Add to this the chopped 
parsley and shallot, and mix well until they have become a 
paste ; pour it through a sieve and leave to cool. When cold 
pound it and mix well together. Have ready the yolks of three 
hard-boiled eggs, add these and some pepper and salt, curry 
powder or cayenne for seasoning ; then add the yolks of the 
two uncooked eggs, rub all well together, and shape into balls. 
Place in the soup ten or fifteen minutes before serving, 

555. So. (very fine Balls for Fish Soups or Stewed Fish). 

— Ingredieuts — Lobster, a little essence of anchovy to taste, 
boiled celery, yolk of a hard-boiled egg, cayenne, mace, salt, 
white pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, one of oyster 
liquor, 2 oz. of butter, 2 eggs. 

Beat the flesh and soft parts of a middling lobster, essence of 
anchovy to tastp, a large piece of boiled celery, the yolk of a 
hard egg, a little cayenne, mace, salt, and white pepper, with 
two tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, one ditto of oyster liquor, 
two ounces of butter warmed, and two eggs well beaten; make 
into balls, and fry of a fine brown in buttf^r. 

556. Do- (Balls for Soup).— lugred-nts,— 8oz. of brsad-cmmbs, 

sweet herbs, salt ami pepper to t^iste, 5 eggs. 

Have the bread-ciumbs finely giated, and the herbs pounded 



Forcemeats, mrs, clarke's cookery book. 163 

to a powder; sprinkle with pepper and salt ; boil two eggjs hard 
and mince finely. Mix all together and bind the whole with the 
remaining eggs. Form into little balls, and drop into the soup 
aboHt five or six minutes before serving. 

557. FOEOEIiIEAT (Oyster, for Roaat or Boiled Turkey)-— 

Ingredients — 2 teacupfuls of kread-orumbs, | oz. of minced 
suet, 1 table-spoonful of savory herbs, a sprinkle of nutmeg, 
salt and pepper to taate, 2 eggs, 1^ doz. oysters. 

Have the bread-crumbs and suet finely minced, add the 
herbs chopped as finely as possible ; mix well. Having opened 
the oysters, beard and chop them (not very small) and add to 
the other ingredients; beat up the eggs, and with the hand 
work all together thoroughly ; it is then ready for use. 

558. SAGE AlTD OITIOXT STITFFZlTa (for Fork, Suoks. 

Goose)-— Ingredients— 2 teacups of biead-crumV)8, 4 large 
onions, 12 sage leaves, butter the size of an egg, pepper and 
salt to taste, 1 egg. 

Peel and boil the onions for five or six minutes, dip the sage 
leaves in the same water (while boiling) for a minute or two, 
then chop finely ; add seasoning, the bread-crumbs and butter ; 
beat ap the egg, and work all together. It is then ready for use. 



BREAD AND CAKES, 



OBSERVATIONS ON BREAD. 

Of all articles of food, bread is perhaps the most import- 
ant, therefore it is necessary to be well acqirainted with 
the quality of the ingredients and the art of making it. 
Flour ought to be a faw weeks old before being used, and 
care must be taken to keep it perfectly dry. Genuine flour 
will hold together in a mass when pressed with the hand. 
American flour requires almost twice as much water to 
make it into bread, as is used for English flour, and there- 
fore it is more profitable, for a stone of the American which 
weighs 14 lbs. will make 2iJ^ lbs. of bread, but the best 
sort of English flour produces only 18^ lbs. In wet 
weather, or when wheat is badly stored, causing it to be 
damp, the soluble albuminoids which it possesses act upon 
the insoluble gluten causing it to decompose, and at once 
generating dextrin by their action on the starch of the 
grain, consequently the flour prepared from such grain is 
poor in gluten and rich in dextrin, the consequence being 
that when used it produces heavy bread, therefore it is of the 
utmost importance to purchase only the best quality of 
flour, for it is the truest economy. Do not place the sponge 
or dough too near the fire, as some cooks are liable to do 
in cold weather, or the quality of bread will be endangered. 
The proper heat should be gentle and equal for fermenta- 
tion. Care must also be taken to mix and knead (brisk 
and long kneading will fully repay for the trouble) when 
it has reached the point for either. Some authorities say 
the heat of the oven should rise to 280° and after a 
quarter of an hour slacken to 220°, others from 300' 
to 400°. The cook must be guided by experience as to 
exact degree of heat. Doubtless the bread will require a 
brisk oven, and should take about an hour to an hour an4 
a half to bake, ' .- ^ ^ -^ „. . 

164 



Brkad. MRS. Clarke's cookery book. X65 



OBSERVATIONS ON CAKES. 

For good cakes (as in bread) it is of great importance to 
use no ingredients, but those of the finest quality. The 
flour must be dry and sifted. It will be found a good plan 
after purchasing currants, to wash in three waters, pick and 
dry in a cloth. Then look them carefully over, discard- 
ing any stone, stalk, or grit. Lay before the fire or in the 
sun to dry. Put by in jar, and they will always be ready 
for use. Eggs should be well whisked, the whites and yolks 
beaten separately and strained. Butter must not be al- 
lowed to oil. Lemon peel should be cut thinly as possible. 
Sugar should be finely powdered. When soda is used it 
is a good plan to dissolve it in warm water. When all the 
ingredients are mixed, vigorous and patient beating will 
greatly add to the lightness of the cake. The heat of the 
oven is of great importance for cakes, especially those that 
are large. If not pretty quick, the batter will not rise. 
Should you fear its catching by being too quick, put some 
paper over the cake to prevent its being burnt. If not long 
enough lighted to have a body of heat, or it is become 
slack, the cake will be heavy. To know when it is soaked, 
take a broom straw, and pierce into the very centre, draw it 
instantly out, and if the least stickiness adheres, put the 
cake immediately in, and shut up the oven. 



558. YEAST (1).— Ingredients— A double handful of hops, ^ doz. 
potatoes, i gal. of water, 1 or ^ cupful of ginger, small cup 
of flour, a cup of browu sugar, ^ cup of salt, a cupful of 
good yeast. 

Allow the hops and potatoes to boil together in one-half 
gallon of water till done ; strain and mash the ginger, then 
add remaining ingredients, excepting the yeast. Let stand 
until cool, then add the yeast. Hejit day cork up tight in a 

jug- 

669. TEAST (2). — Ingredients— Two oz. of hops, 1 gal. of water, 
a handful of salt, 1 lb. of best flour, 3 Iba. of potatoes. 

Boil the hops in a gallon of water for half an hour ; strain 
it, and let it cool down to the heat of new milk ; then put the 
salt and moist sugar ; beat the flour with some of the Iiquor» 



1 66 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Bread. 

and then mix all together. Two days after, add the pota- 
toes, boiled and then mashed, to stand for four-and-twenty- 
hours ; then put it into bottles, and it will be ready for use. 
Stir it frequently while making, and keep it warm. Before 
using, shake the bottle up well. It will keep in a cool place 
for two months. 

560. YEAST (Oompresaed). 

This yeast will make good and wholesome bread, but bread 
made from it will not keep as long as with brewers or home- 
made yeast. Potatoes mixed with the dough will keep it 
moist longer. 

561. POTATO YEAST —Ingredients— To every lb. of potatoes 2 

ez. of treacle, 2 large spoonfuls of yeast. 

This is made of mealy potf.ioes boiled thoroughly soft ; they 
are skinned and mashed as smooth as possible ; as much hot 
water should then be put on them as will make a mash of the 
consistency of good beer yeast. Add to the potatoes tlie 
treacle ; and when just warm, stir in the yeast. Keep it 
warm till it has done fermenting, and in twenty-four hours 
it will be fit for use. One pound of potatoes will make nearly 
a quart of yeast ; and i is said to be equally as good as brewers' 
yeast. 

562. HOME-MADE BREAD (1).— Ingredients-Four lbs. of 

flour, 1 tableapoonful of solid brewers' yeast, 1^ pints of luke- 
warm milk and water, salt. 

Put the flour into a deep pan, sprinkle a little salt into it, 
hollow out the middle with a wooden spoon (take care to leave 
the bottom of the pan well covered with fi'^ur). Next take 
the yeast, which has been mad« solid by liberally mixing with 
cold water and allowing it to settle twenty-four hours. Then 
proceed to pour the yeast into the hole in the flour, and mix 
with it as much flour as is round about it until it is of the con- 
sistency of thick batter ; be careful there are no lumps. Srft 
plenty of flour over the top, cover with a clean cloth, 
and set it where the air is warm and equal. Allow 
to stand an hour ©r a little longer, and if the yeast has 
broken through it is then ready to be made into dough. 
Pour into the sponge the remaining milk and water. Mix into 
it as much of the flour as you can with the spoon. Now take 
plenty of the flour, sprinkle on the top of the leaven, and pro- 
ceed to knead briskly, and when perfectly free from lumps 
and does not adhere to the hands, it may be covered with a 
cloth and left to rise a second time. When it begins to 



Bread. mrs. clarke*s cookery Book. 167 

crack, whi' V will be in about three-quarters of an hour, it can 
be formed ' -to loaves and baked. In forming the loaves divide 
in two and make up the shape and size required, and with 
a sharp knife make incisions in the top of each loaf. If baked 
in tins, take care to grease them before using. When baked 
stand on end to allow the steam to evaporate. The dough 
can be made without making a sponge (if desired) by mixing 
the yeast with the best part of themilTc and water, and after a 
little salt has been added proceed to work up the whole of the 
flour at once, and then act as above. The dough will soften 
in the rising, so it should be made firm at first. 

563. EOME-MADE EEEAD (2). 

Put the flour into a large pan ; mix in a dessertspoonful of 
salt ; make a hole in the middle, and pour in the yeast (half a 
teacup of yeast to two quarts of flour), with about a pint of 
water or milk (which use warm in winter, and cold in summer), 
not mixing in all the flour ; then put a blanket, or towel, over 
the pan, and let it stand to rise, near the fire in winter. This 
is " putting bread in sponge." When it has risen, mix all the 
flour with the sponge ; knead it well, and let it stand two hours 
till quite light. Then mould the doug'i on a board till elastic, 
and put the loaves into greased or floured baking-tins ; prick 
them two or three times through with a fork ; let them rise 
again for a quarter of an hour, and bake them in a quick 
oven. 

564. WHITE BREAD.— Ingredients — Sponge, a pan of buttei'- 

milk, or sour milk, flour, teacupful ot yeast. 

For the sponge take a pan of buttermilk or sour milk which 
has just turned thick. Put it on the stove and scald. When 
the curd is well separated from the whey strain or skim it out. 
Let the whey cool until it will not scald, then stir in the 
flour, beating thoroughly. It should be about as thick as 
batter for griddle cakes. Sweet milk, or even water may be 
used as wetting for the sponge, if good sour milk or buttermilk 
cannot be had. But fresh buttermilk is, perhaps, the best of 
all. When the sponge is about milkwarm, beat in a teacupful 
of yeast. One teacupful of the yeast is enough for three 
ordinary white loaves, one loaf of brown bread and a tin of 
rolls. The sponge should be made at night. Let it stand 
until morning. Unless the weather is very cold, it is not nec- 
essary to put it near the fire. In the morning, when the 
sponge is light, take out enough for your loaf of brown bread. 
Mix the remainder with flour, taking care not to put in too 
much, as that will make the bread dry and hard. Knead half 



i68 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Bread. 

an hour. The whiteness and delicacy of the bread will be 
much increased by thorough kneading. Put the dough away 
to rise again. When it is light, if you wish to make rolls, 
save enoujs'h of the dough for that purpose. Make the re- 
mainder into loaves. Set them away to rise. When light, 
bake. 

565. YEAST BREAD —Ingredients— Yeast, 12 potatoes, 3 
large tablespooufulB of tiour, 2 each of sugar and salt, 2 
yeast cakes, to every loaf of bread allow 1 pint of yeast. 

To make the yeast pare twelve medium-sized potatoes and 
put them in a kettle to boil. While they are boiling put in a 
pan three heaped tablespoonfuls of flour, two each of sugar 
and salt. Pour slowly over these a pint of boiling water, 
stirring constantly to free from lumps. When soft mash the 
potatoes and add to the contents of the pan. Now pour in a 
quart of cold water and one of boiling water. Set aside till 
cool enough to bear your finger in. Stir in two yeast cakes 
dissolved in a little water. Keep warm till a foam rises over 
the top, when it is ready for use. P'or each loaf of the bread 
take one pint of the yeast, no other wetting being required. 
Make a hole in the centre of a pan of flour, pour in the yeast 
and stir it thick as possible, cover and set in a warm place to 
rise, which will be in about two hours — sometimes less — now 
mix into loaves, let it rise again, and bake from a half to three 
quarters of an hour. A great advantage of this bread is, it is 
so quickly made. If the yeast should become a little sour, a 
pinch of soda may be put in when first stirred for bread. 

5tjG. PLAIN BREAD.— Ingredients— Half lb. of white flour, 1 
teaspoonful of baking powder, a pinch of salt, J pint of 
milk and water. 

The simplest way of making bread in small quantities is as 
follows : — Take }4 lb. of white flour, and, whilst in a dry state, 
mix in thoroughly a small teaspoonful baking powder and a 
pinch of salt. Then add about a quarter of a pint of milk and 
water, or water alone ; knead it as quickly as possible, and 
put immediately into a very hot oven ; the whole secret of 
making light bread after this fashion lies in attention to these 
last rules. Iftheovenis well heated, it will rise almost dir- 
ectly, and it should be baked until the outside is quite crisp 
and hard. I generally knead mine into the desired shape, but 
they can be baked in tins if preferred. For brown bread, I 
use three parts of brown and one of white flour, and a little 
extra baking powder ; also adding a little more water, if neces- 
saiy, to mix it« 



Bread. mrs. Clarke's cookery book. 169 

567. mOE and "WHEAT BREAD.— ingredients— One lb. of 

rice, 2 quarts of water, 4 lbs. of flour, 4 large spoonfuls of 

yeast, salt. 
Simmer a pound of rice in two quarts of water till it be- 
comes perfectly soft ; when it is of a proper warmth, mix it 
extremely well with four pounds of flour, and yeast and salt 
as for other bread ; of yeast about four large spoonfuls ; knead 
it extremely well ; then set it to rise before the fire. Some 
of the flour should be reserved to make up the loaves. If the 
rice should require more water, it must be added, as some 
rice swells more than others. 

568. FRBNOH BREAD-— Ingredients— ipk. of fine flour, yolks 

of 3 and whites of li eggs, salt, ^ pt. of good yeast, ^ pt. of 

milk. 
With a quarter of a peck of fine flour mix the yolks of three 
and whites of two eggs, beaten and strained, a little salt, half 
a pint of good yeast, that is not bitter, and as much milk, made 
a little warm, as will work into a thin light dough ; stir it about, 
but don't knead it ; have ready three quart wooden dishes, 
divide the dough among them, set to rise, then turn them out 
into the oven, which must be quick. Rasp when don.^. 

569. BRO'WIT BREAD.— Ingredients-Sponge as for whi .e bread, 

2 parts of (Graham flour, one-third white flour, to every qt. of 
this add a large breakfast cup of Indian meal, 2 saltspoonfuls 
of salt, for a good sized loaf allow ^ a cup of molasses. 

Take the Graham and white flour, Indian meal, and salt, in 
the above proportions, and mix this up with the sponge, then 
pour in the molasses. If it cannot be brought to the proper 
congruity (which should be very soft) with the sponge, add a 
little warm water ; be careful to knead it well and for a long 
time ; then allow it to rise ; it will take longer than white bread ; 
then make into loaves, and bake carefully. When baked allow 
to cool before cutting. ^ 

570. DO- (2). — Ingredients — 1 pt. of brown flour, ^ cup of yeast, 

white flour, sweeten to taste. 

Scald one pint of brown flour, make it as thick as stiff mush; 
then put in half a cup of yeast, and let this sponge stand over 
night ; in the morning m'x it up with white flour, and sweeten 
to taste. This quantity makes two small loaves. It requires 
longer to bake than white bread. 

571. DO- (3). — Ingredients — Three teacups of corn meal, 2 cups of 

boiling sweet milk, 1 teacup of molasses, 1 cup of wheat 
flour, 1 cup of sour milk, 1 teaspoouful of soda, ^ teaspoouf ul 
of salt. 
Take the corn meal, stir into it the boiling sweet milk ; 



fjo MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Bread. 



when cold, add the molasses, wheat flour, and sour milk ; into 
the sour milk stir well the soda ; add also the salt ; steam 
three hours. 

572. BROWN BREAD. (4).— Ingredients— One pint of com meal, 

1 pint of rye flour, 1 tablespoonful of brown sugar, 1 tea- 
spoonful of salt, 2 of baking powder, 1 tablespoonful of lard, 
i pint of milk. 

Sift together the above ingredients, excepting the lard and 
milk ; rub into the mixture the lard and add the milk. Mix 
into a batter-like cake and bake one hour. Protect it with 
brown pap)er if it should brown too fast at first. 

573. DO- (5). — Ingredients — One cup of corn meal, one cup of 

(^^-raham flour, one cup of sour milk, one cup o^' warm water, 
one half cup of molasses, one teaspoonf ul of soda, a little salt. 

Steam two hours. Serve at table hot. 

574. DO- (SteadOd)-— Ingredients— One cup of sour milk, J cup 

of warm water, 1 cup of molassea, ^ teaspoonf ul of soda, 1^ 
cups of Indian meal, ^ cup of flour. 

Steam three hours and bake one-half hour. It may seem 
thin but it will be just right when done. 

575. Bo. BOSTOIT (Delicious and QenuinO)-- Ingredients- 

One and a half cups of yellow meal, one cup of rye flour, one 
cup of Graham flour, one cup of New Orleans molasses, two 
full teaspoonfuls of baking powder and a little salt. 

Mix all to a consistency of a thick batter with either milk or 
water, pour into a buttered mold or tin pail, and steam in boil- 
ing water four hours. 

676. RYE BREAD-— Ingredients— Two cups of Indian meal, 
scalding water, a small cup of white bread sponge, sugar, 
salt, a teaspoonful of soda, rye. 

Make the Indian meal into a thick batter with scalding 
water ; when cool add the white bread sponge, a little sugar 
and salt, and the soda, dissolved. In this stir as much rys 
as is possible with a spoon ; let it rise until it is very light ; 
then work in with your hand as much rye as you can, but do 
not knead it, as that will make it hard ; put it in buttered 
bread tins, and let it rise for about fifteen minutes ; then 
bake it for an hour and a half, cooling the oven gradually for 
the last twenty minutes. 

577. OORN BREAD STEAMED (Canadian recipe).— ingre- 
dients — Three cups of corn meal, boiling water, 1 cup of 
flour, 2 cups of sour milk, 1 cup of molasses, 1 teaspoonful of 
soda, a little salt. 

Scald two cups of corn meal with boiling water, add another 



Bread. Mrs. clarke's cookery book. 171 



cup of meal and remaining? ingredients. Mix thoroughly, and 
steam three hours. 

578. OOBIT SEEAD (Baked)- — In^edlents — Half a pint of but- 

ter milk, i pint of aweet milk, ^ a teaspoonful of soda, 2 

eggs, 9 tablespoonfuls of sifted com meal, lard, a teaspoon- 

ful of salt. 

Haifa pint of buttermilk, half a pint of sweet milk; add to 

the buttermilk half a teaspoon of soda ; beat the eggs, whites 

and yolks together, pour the milk on to the eggs, and thicken 

with the sifted corn meal. Put the pan in which it is to be 

baked on the stove with a piece of lard the size of an egg ; 

when melted pour in the batter, add the salt, stir well, and bake. 

579. HZOI! BREAP- — Ingredients — A plate of boiled rice, 2 eggs, 

1^ cui)s of tiour, lump of butter size of a waluut, milk. 

Take the boiled rice warm enough to melt the butter, beat 
the eggs separately, mix with them the flour, and milk enough 
to make a thick batter. Grease the pans and bake like bread 
or muffins. 

(80. BUEAD OMELET- — Ingredients— A teacupful of bread- 
crumbs, 1 of sweet milk, eggs, pepper, salt, a small lump of 
butter. 

Let the milk come to a boiling point, pour it over the crumbs 
and let it stand a few minutes ; take the eggs, beat them well 
and pour into the bread mixture ; season with salt and pepper 
and a small lump of butter ; when thoroughly mixed butter a 
hot skillet and pour the mixture in, letting it fry slowly ; when 
one aide is browned nicely cut it in squares and turn. Serve 
at once. 

581. SODA BUEAS- — Ingredients — Allow a teaspoonful of tar- 

taric acid to every 2 Ibg. of flour, 2 saltspoonfuls of salt, | 
pint of milk with a teaspeonf ul of carbonate of soda dissolved 
in it. 

Pound the tartaric acid and the salt to a powder. Then 
put them into a basin with the flour and mix well together. 
Take the milk with the soda well dissolved in it and pour in 
with the flour. Great expedition is re(|uired in working it into 
a dough. Form into two loaves and bake in a brisk oven for 
an hour. 

582. AMERIOAIT CORN BREAD— Ingredients— One largo 

tablespoonful of lard, half a teacup of brown sugar, one tea- 
cup of flour, 3 teacups of Indian meal, two small teaspoonfuls 
cream of tartar, one small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, 
one egg, one saltspoon of salt, enough sour milk to make a 
batter about as thick as for cake, or thinner. 

Beat eggs, lard and sugar together, then add flour, meal and 



172 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Bread. 

milk gradually with the salt and cream of tartar ; when just 
ready for the oven, mix in the carbonate of soda, put in tins, 
anJ bake in a good oven, but not too hot. Bake about three- 
quarters of an hour or until done. If the tins have paper at 
the bottom they bake better, and do not stick. If you have 
not sour milk, sweet will do, but buttermilk is the best of all. 
These cakes can be kept in the tins and heat'jd up the next 
day. 

583. RUSKS —Ingi'edients— One pint of new milk, 2 tablespoon- 

fula of yeaat, flour, 2 tablcspooufuls of butter, I cupful of 
sugar, 2 eggs, 2 saltspoonfuls of salt. 

Rusks require a longer time for rising than ordinary rolls or 
biscuits. Prepare a sponge of the yeast, milk and flour (suffi- 
cient to make a thin batter) and allow it to rise all night. 
Next morning add eggs, butter and sugar (which must have 
been mixed well together), salt and flour enough to produce a 
soft dough. Shape into neatballsof equal size, place in a pan and 
allow to rise until very light. Flavor according to taste. Bake 
in a quick, steady oven till of a pretty brown color ; glaze with 
the yolk of an egg and sprinkle with powdered white sugar. 

584. BTTTTEH HOLLS- — Ingredients — One quart of flour, half a 

teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one 
egg, one pint of milk, one tablespoonful of lard. 

Sift the flour, salt and baking powder together, rub in the 
lard cold, then add the egg and milk, mix as soft as possible. 
Roll it out one half inch in thickness and cut with a plain 
round biscuit cutter. Dip them in melted butter, fold one- 
third of each piece over the remainder and bake in a quick 
oven for fifteen minutes. 

585. VIEITITA nOLLS- — Ingredients— One quart of milk, one- 

half teaspoonful of salt, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
one tablespoonful of lard, one pint of milk. 

Mix into a dough easily to be handled without sticking to 
the hands ; turn on the board and roll out to the thickness of 
half an inch, cut it out with a large cake cutter, spread very 
lightly with butter, fold one half over the other and lay them 
in a greased pan without toucliing. Wash them over with a 
little milk, and bake in a hot oven. 

580. PREITOH ROLLS- — Ingredients— Two eggs, ^ pint of milk, 
1 tablespoonful of yeast, 1 oz. of butter. 

Beat two eggs, and mix with them half a pint of milk and a 
tablespoonful of yeast ; knead well and let it stand till morn- 
ing ; then work in one ounce of butter ; mould into small rolls, 
and bake at once. 



Cakes. mrs. clarke's cookery book. 173 



580. SWISS ROLL- — Ingredients — Two egga, their weight in 
flour and Bifted sugar and butter, lemon juice, jam. 
Take two eggs as your weights and take their weight in flour, 
sifted sugar, and butter. First cream the butter and sugar, 
stir in the two yolks slightly beaten, then the two whites beaten 
to a stiff froth, and last of all the flour, strewn lightly in ; mix 
thoroughly, and add a little lemon juice. Grease a Yorkshire 
pudding-dish, and pour in the mixture about half an inch in 
depth ; bake in a hot oven for not more than seven minutes, as 
otherwise it would become too crisp to roll ; strew a sheet of 
paper with sugar, and turn it out on this, and immediately 
spread with jam, and quickly roll it ; if not done wWlst very 
hot, it will break in the rolling. The top can be ornamented 
with bars of pink sugar icing, silver comfits, and preserved 
fruit. 

o87. BZIEAEFAST HOLLS' — Ingredients— Two quarts flour, 
one tablespoonful sugar, one tablespoonful butter, one-half 
cup of yeast, one pint scalded milk, or water if milk is scarce, 
and a little salt. 

Set to rise until light ; then knead until hard and set to rise, 
and when wanted make in rolls ; place a piece of butter between 
the folds, and bake in a slow oven. 

588. GHAEAM BISOTJITS- — Ingredients— One quart water or 

milk, butter the size of. an egg, three tablespoonfuls sugar, 
two of baker's yeast, and a pinch of salt ; enough white 
flour to use up the water, making it the consistency of batter 
cakes, and as much Graham flour as can be stirred in with a 
spoon. 

Set it away tiH morning ; in the morning grease pan, flour 
hands ; take a lump of dough the size of a large egg ; roll 
lightly between the palms ; let them rise twenty minutes and 
bake in a tolerably hot oven. 

589. SODA BISOTTITS.— Ingredients— Eighteen oz. of flour, f of 

a breakfast cup of lard, 2 small cups of new milk, 2 teaspoon- 
fulfl of cream-tai-tar, 1 of soda, a pinch of salt. 

Take care that the cream-tartar and the soda are of the 
finest powder and mix well with the flour; add the salt and 
lard, and with the hands rub well into the flour ; pour in the 
mijk and work up the dough as quickly as possible, taking care 
to have it as soft as is possible to handle. Roll, cut into cakes, 
and bake in a brisk oven. 

590. MUX BISOTTITS.— Ingredients— Quarter lb. of butter, 1 

qt. of milk, 1 gill of yeast, salt to taste, as much flour as will 
form the dough. 

§tir floi^r Intq \\\% niilk so ^9 tQ form a very thick battel-, ap4 



1 74 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Cakes. 

add the yeast ; this should be done in the evening ; in the 
morning cut up the butter and set it near the fire where it will 
melt, but not get hot, pour the melted butter into the sponge, 
then stir in enough flour to make a dough ; knead well and 
leave to rise ; as soon as it is perfectly light, butter your tins, 
cut the dough into cakes and let them rise ; when they have 
risen bake in a very quick oven. When done, rub over the 
tops with water and serve hot. 

591. BAEINa POTHER BISCUIT. 

Take one quartof flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
mix thoroughly, then rub in butter or lard the size of an egg, 
and wet with milk, stirring with a spoon till thick enough to 
lay on the moulding-board. Cut thin and bake in a quick oven. 

592. SALLY LTTITIT.— Ingredients— Two pounds of flour, half a 

pound of butter, three eggs, one pint of milk, half a gMl of 
yeast, salt according to taate. 

Cut up the butter in the flour, and with your hands rub it 
well together ; beat the eggs; add them gradually to the flour 
alternately with the milk ; stir in the yeast and salt. Bake it 
in an earthen mould, or iron pan, one hour. 

59.3. BREAKFAST MUPFI1TS-— Ingredients— Three ecgs, 1 
breakfastoupful of milk, 1 tfiblespoonful of butter melted, 1 
of sugar, a pinch of salt, 2 heaped teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. 
Whisk the eggs and mix with the milk ; put the melted but- 
ter into a basin with the above ingredients, mixing in flour 
enough to make a batter. Bake in round tins, and when almost 
done wash the top of each with a feather dipped in milk. 

594. Q-RAHAM MTTPPIITS- — Ingredients — One quartof Crraham 

flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, a piece of butter 
the size of a walnut, one egg, one tablespoonful of sugar, one- 
half teaspoonful of salt, milk enough to make a batter as thick 
as for griddle cakes. 

Bake in mufiin-rings, about twenty minutes, in a quick oven. 

595. RICE MIUFPIITS- — Ingredients — Two cups of cold boiled 

rice, 1 pint of tlour, 1 teaspoon of salt, 1 tablespoon of sugar, 
two teaspoons of baking powder, \ pint of milk, 3 eggs. 
Mix into a smooth and rather firm batter, and bake as 
above. 

596. OATMEAL MUPPIITS. — Ingredients— One cup oatmeal, 

\\^ pints flour, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, 1 pint of milk, 1 tablespoonful of lard, 2 eggs. 

Mix smoothly into a batter rather thinner than for cup cakes. 
Fill the muffin rings two-thirds full and bake in d^ hot oven. 



Cakes. mRs. clarke's cookery book. 175 

597. OllTJMPBTS(l).— InR^edienta— TwoegOT, 1 teaspoonf r1 each 
of salt and stigar, 4 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 1 quart 
of milk, 3 pts, flour. 

Mix into a stiff batter and bake in greased muffin rings on a 
iiot greased griddle. 

.j1>8. ORUliIPETS (2).— Ingredients— Two pts. flour, 1^ teaepoon- 
f ula of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 2^ teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, 2 eggs, Ipt. milk, 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

Mix thoroughly, adding the eggs and milk last. Stir to a 
stiff batter, and bake on a hot, well greased griddle. 

r)DD. T7AI'PLB3-—Ing»"«f^''^nt8— Two eggs, 1 pint of milk, J oz. 
of butter, .^ gill ycasb, salt to taste, and tlour enough to form 
a thick batter. 

Warm the milk and butter together; beat the eggs, and add 
ihcm by turns with the flour ; stir in the yeast and salt. When 
they are light, heat your waffle-irons and butter them, pour in 
some of the baiter, and brown them on both sides ; butter 
them, and serve them with or without sugar and cinnamon. 

600. JMOB 1J7APPLES-— Ingredients— One gill of rice, 3 gills of 
flour, salt to taste, I oz of butter, 3 egga, aa much milk as 
will make it a thick batter. 

Boil the rice in very little water until it is soft ; drain it and 
mash it fine. Then add the butter to the rice whilst it is 
warm; whisk the eggs very light, the yolks and whites separ- 
ately. Add the yolks to the rice, and as much milk as will form 
a batter. Beat the whole very hard, then stir the whites of the 
eggs gently into the mixture. Grease your waffle-irons, and 
bake them. If the batter should be too thin, add a little more 
flour. 

tiOl. WAFFLES (WitllOUt 70a3t)-—Ingi'edients -Three eggs, 1 
pint of milk, 1 teaspoonful of butter, as much flour as will 
make a batter. 

Beat the yolks and whites separately; melt the butter, and 
while lukewarm stir it into the milk; whisk the yolks very light ; 
add to them the milk and flour alternately ; beat it well; lastly 
stir in the whites, which should be whisked very dry. The 
batter should not be beaten after the whites are in. Grease 
your waffle-irons after having heated them ; fill them nearly 
full of the batter, close them, and place them over the fire ; 
turn the irons so as to bake the waffle on both sides. When 
done, take it out and butter it. These must be baked tht mo- 
ment they are mixed. 



176 MRS. Clarke's cocKFRY BOOK. Cakes. 



602. SPANISH BTJITS.— IngrefUfints— Ono lb. of flour, J of a lb. 

of Hugar, i lb. of butter, 4 eggs, 1 gill of yeast, J tcaspoonful 
of cinnamon, ^ tcaspoonful of nutmeg, ^ pint of milk, 2 tablo- 
spoonfulfl of rose water. 

Cut up the butter, and rub it well with the flour, add the 
sugar, beat the egc^s very light, and stir in lastly the spices and 
rose-water, with milk enough to form a very thick batter, then 
add the yeast. The next morning stir it again, and let it rise 
the second time. Butter your pans, and fill them three parts 
full. When they are done and cold, sift sugar over, and with a 
sharp knife cut them insqu ires. 

603. BUITS- — Ingredients— One pound of flour, .? oz. butter, J lb. 

sugar, 2 eggs, .3 half gills of mi'k, 1 gill of home-made yeast, 

1 tablespoonful of rose-water, 2 teaspoonfuls of powdered 
cinnamon. 

Warm the butter in the milk ; beat the eggs ; mix the egg-s 
with the milk and butter, and pour altogether into the pan of 
flour ; then add the rose-water, cinnamon, and yeast. Mix all 
thoroughly, knead thedough well, let it rise ; when light, make 
it out into cakes ; put them in buttered pans, let them stand 
till they rise agam, and bake them. 

604. BASTB21 BTJITS- — Ingredients— Half quartern of white 

bread dough, 6 oz, fresh butter, 6 oz. white sugar, 4 eggs. 

Beat the sugar and eggs together and mix them well with 
the dough (if it is stiff the best plan is to beat it with your hand, 
but if not a spoon will answer the purpose). When this is done 
add the butter. Put the mixture into tins or cups, and bake 
for about twenty minutes in a quick oven. 

605. POP-OVERS- — Ingredients — Take of equal proportions (say 

2 cups) milk and flour, 2 eggs, a little salt butter the size of an 

egg- 
Mix the salt in the flour, beat tlie eggs, add to it the milk and 
pour upon the flour; mix well, melt the butter and add to other 
ingredients ; the last thing, grease and half fill the tins ; bake 
quickly. 

606. DOUGHNUTS.— Ingredients— One quart of water, 1 cake 

of yeast, 1 coflFee-cupful of lard, 2 of white sugar, .3 large 
mashed potatoes, a small nutmeg. 

Set sponge for them about two or three o'clock ; fry them 
the next lorenoon. Make a sponge, using the above propor- 
tions of water and yeast. Let it rise until very light (five hours 
is usually sufficient) ; then add the other ingredients ; let it 
rise again until very light ; roll, and cut or pull off bits of 
(jQUgh and shape ^s yoq like ; lay enough to fry at one time 



CaKKS. MRS CLARKE'S COOKERY BOOK. I77 

on a floured plate, and set in the oven to warm ; drop in boiling 
lard, and fry longer than cakes made with baking powder. If 
the dough is light enough, and you heat it before dropping in 
the lard, your doughnuts will be delicious. 

U07. ST7TTSIIMZLZ CAHEH). 

Take one pint of buttermilk, and stir into it as much flouras 
will form a dough, with one tablespoonful of dissolved cp.rbon- 
ate of ammonia; roll the dough out in sheets, cut the cakes, 
and bake them in a moderate oven. The carbonate of ammo- 
nia may be obtained at any of the druggists ; it is the common 
smelling-salts, without any of the aromatic drugs. It never 
imparts any taste to the food, as the heat disengages the car- 
bonic acid gas and the ammonia. 

008. MUSH CAKES- -lugicdienta— One qt. of milk, J pound of 

butter, flour enough to make a dough, salt according to taste, 
Indian meal sufiicieut to thicken the milk, half a pint of yeast. 

Boil the milk, and stii into it as much Indian meal, mixed 
with cold milk, as will make a mush as thick as batter ; add 
the butter and salt while the mush is hot ; as soon as it be- 
comes lukewarm stir in the yeast and as much flour as will 
form a dough ; cover it and stand it to rise. When light, make 
it out into biscuits, put them in buttered pans, and, as soon as 
they rise again, bake them in a hot oven. Theso cakes are 
very nice. 

009. BTJOZVHEAT CASES- — Ingredients— One pint of buck- 

wheat ineal, 1 qt. of water, salt according to taste, 1 gill of 
honie-made yeast. 

Mix the water (which should be lukewarm if the weather is 
cold) with the meal ; add the salt and yeast ; beat it well ; when 
light, bake them on a griddle. Grease the griddle; pour on a 
little of the batter ; spread it so as to form a cake about the size 
of a breakfast-plate ; the cakes should be very smooth at the 
edges. When they are done on one side, turn them; when brown 
on both sides, put some butter on the plate, put the cake on it, 
butter the top, bake another and put on it, butter hot, and send 
them to the table. Buckwheat cakes are much better if they 
are sent to the table with only one or two on the plote. 

610. RYE BATTEH CAEkES- — Ingredients— One pint of rye 
meal enough lukewarm milk to make a thin b;.tter, salt ac- 
cording to taste, one gill of home-n»ade yeast. 

Add enough lukewarm milk to the rye to make a thin batter, 
with sa't ; beat it well, then add the yeast; when they arq 
light, bake th^m W a giiUclle, a:i l^iucliulieut culwub. 



178 MRS. clarkk's cookkry itooK. Cakks. 



611. MILS AND BnfTEn OAKES-Ingre.HentH-^Three- 

<iuartcr8 of a pound ot llnm, A ll>. of butter, ^ lb. of HUgur, 1 
ttia«poonful of grated uutiiicg, as imicii milk as \vill forma 
dough. 

Cut up the butter in the (lour, add the sugar and spices by 
degrees ; stir in as much milk as will make a donRh ; knead it 
well, roll it out in sheets, cut in cakes, l)ulter your tins, lay 
them on so as not to touch, and bake in a u odcrate oven. 

612. SPONGE JELLY CAKE- iMgif.lients- ;i eggs, t oz. of 

sugar, I cup of Hour, I des.sertHpooiiful of baking powder, ,"> 
tablespoonfvila of boiling water. 

Mix the bakinj; powder with the (lour, and beat each of the 
eggs separately. Then mix all the ingredients together, and 
bake in jelly tins in a brisk oven. When cool, chocolate frost- 
ing put between the cakes makes them very delicious, or jelly if 
preferred. 

613. JELLY ROLLS. -Tngredients -3 eggs, ^ a cupful of butter. 

1^ tcaspooubful of baking powder, 3 of a cup of pulverized 
sugar, 1 cupful of flour, a little salt. 

Bake in shallow pans— a drippinj;-pan well buttered is good 
for this purpose . put in the dou^h till it is about half an inch 
thick; take it carefully from the tins when baked and lay on a 
cloth ; spread jelly over it evenly with a knife ; roll while hot ; 
if this is not done the cake will crumble. 

614. SPONGE JELLY OAZE (RoUeD-Ingrcdicnts-Seggs, 

1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of flour, and 1 tcaspoonful of baking 
powder. 

Beat the yolks and sugar to a cream, add the whites, beaten 
to a stiff froth ; then the flour, "in which the baking powder has 
been mixed. Bake in a dripping-pan. When done, turn out 
on a cloth, spread jelly on the bottom of the cake, and roll 
from the side. 

615. ROLL JELLY CASE- — In^'rodicnti -lA cups of brown 

Kugar,.S i',ys, 1 Clip of i lilk, 2 uup.s of tlour, 1 teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, 1 teaspoonful of soda, I teaspoonful of lemon 
or vanilla essence. 

Thoroughly beat the eggs and sugar together ; mix the 
cream of tartar and soda with the milk, stirring in the flavoring 
also; next mix in the flour; spread thtm upon a loBg pan, 
and as soon as done spread jelly on the top and roll. 

616. JOHNNY CAKE —ingredients— 1 pt. of Indian meal, 1 

teacupful of sugar, I pt. of milk, 2 egga, 1 tcaspoonful of 
butter, salt to taste, 1 teaspoonful of dissolved saleratua, 

Mix the butter and sugar with the meal ; boil hali the milk, 



Cakes. mrs. clarkes cookkry book. 179 

Add the dissolved saleratus and the eggs, after they have been 
well beaten, to the remaining' half of cold milk. Pour the 
boiling milk over the meal and lot it cool. Then add the cold 
milk and saleratus. Hake in a shallow pan. 

iu7. htdiait meal breakfast oazbs. -ingrcdicnti!- 

1 (jt. of liKJiaii iiifiil, -•«'gga, 1 tiUHpooiifiil of dhnolwd saler- 
atus, ^ 0/.. of ))iittor, Halt to taste, milk HUtHcicnt to make a 
thick batter. 
Beat the eggs very thick and light. Cut up the butter into 
the meal ; then pour over enough boiling water to wet it. 
When it is cool add the eggH and salt ; pour the dissolved 
saleratus into tho milk, and add as much milk as will make it 
into a thick batter. Butter square tin pans, fill them about two- 
thirds full, and bake in a (juick oven. When done, cut into 
squares and serve hot. 

018. lOllTG- FOR GAZES (l).— Ingredients— Four eggs, 1 lb. of 

finely pow<leietl white sugar, vanilla, strawberry, lemon, or 

any other flavoring. 

Take the whites of the eggs, and beat well adding the sugar 

to stiffen in small quantities ; continue until you have beaten 

the eggs to a stiff froth ; it will take about half an hour if well 

beaten all the time ; if not stiff enough then add more sugar; 

spread carefully on the cake with a broad bladed knife ; to 

color icing yellow, put the grated peel of a lemon (or orange) 

into a piece of muslin, strain a little juice through it and press 

hard into the other ingredients. Strawberry juice or cranberry 

syrup colors a pretty pink color. 

<)19. I0I1T& FOR GAZES (2).— Ingredients— The whites of two 
eggs, ^ U). of castor sugar, and the juice of a lemon or a 
few drops of orange ilovvor water. 

Beat the mixture until it hangs upon the fork in flakes, then 
spread over the cake, dipping the knife in cold water occasion- 
ally ; stand it before the fire, and keep turning the cake con- 
stantly, or the sugar will catch and turn brown ; as soon as it 
begins to harden it may be removed ; the icing must not be 
put on until the cake itself is cold, otherwise it will not set. A 
few drops of cochineal will color it if desired. 

620. EZGELLEITT FROSTIlTa. 

Take one cup of granulated sugar and four tablespoons of 
hot water, boil them together untiUit threads from the spoon, 
stirring often. Heat the white of one egg until firm ; when 
the sugar is ready set it from the stove long enough to 
stop boiling, then pour on to the egg slowly, but continu- 
ally, beating rapidly ; continue to beat until of the right 
consistency to spread on the cake and flavor while beat- 



:8o MRS. CLA!?KE's COOKKRY BOOK. CaKES. 



ing; it hardens very quickly afcerit is ready to put on the cake, 
so it is best to have the white of another eg;^ ready to add a 
little if it gets too hard to spread smoothly. Boil the su;^ar 
the same as for candy ; when riijht for candy it is ii,L;r.t for 
frosting; if at last it hardens very rapidly it has been boiled 
too hard ; but a little while of egg will rectify it. Or if not 
boiled enough (that is, if it remains too thin after beaten until 
cold) put in pulverized .sugar, adding a little and beating hard, 
then if not just riglit, a little more and beat again until thick 
enough. 

The one thing is to have the sugar boiled just right ; if you 
hit that ]ioint you will not have a bit of trouble, if not, it will 
require " docto;ing," as I have told you. A good deal depends 
upon stirring the sugar into the white of the egg at first i too 
fast or too slow ii will cook the egg in lumps ; if you >hould 
not get it just right at first do not be discouraged ; when once 
you get it perfect you will never make it any other way. This 
c[uantity is for one cake. 

t)21. ALMOND lOIN&FORCASES-— Ingredients— Four eggs, 
a biiiull quantity of rose water, and to every lb. of sweet 
ahuouds add 1 lb. of powdered loaf sugar. 

Blanch and pound the almonds until of the consistency o^ 
thick cream, wetting now and then with a little rose-water ; 
next beat the whites of the eggs to a firm froth ; add to the 
almonds mixing in the sugar, and stir all well togcther(be sure 
it is nice and smooth). After spreading on the cakes cover with 
plain icing, aft^r this, if desired, pop it in the oven to dry, and 
harden. 

(522. OHOOLATE lOIlTG FOR CASE (Simple). -Ingredients 
~-\ cake chocolate, h cup sweet milk, 2 dessertspoonfuls of 
corn starch, a teas>poonful of vanilla. 

Mix together the chocolate, milk, and starch ; boil for two 
minutes, flavor with the vanilla, and sweeten with powdered 
white sugar to taste. 

()23. PLAIN PRUIT CAKES.- Ingredients-One lb. of flour, 
i lb. of dripping, 2 tcaspoonfula of baking powder, a little 
allspice and salt, ^ lb. of eiirranta, i lb. of white sugar, and 
J pint of milk. 

Mix into the flour the baking powder and salt, then with 
the hands rub tlie di ipping in the flour until it resembles 
bread-crumbs. Add tl-.e currants, a'Lpice and sugar. Take 
care that the ingredients a.c \\eil mixed ; po.ir in tlie milk and 
mixviiha ^^rodcn tpcn. Circf^^e a C[i':nlC'! n tin and pour 
the ini;vture ipip it ; I'dVv fcr cpc hpyr, To epsyre tlie c^kfi 



Cakes. mrs. clarke's cookery book. tSt 

being done stick a piece of broom straw into it. This answers 
the same purpose as a knife and is better, as the knife is apt 
to make tha cake heavy. Turn the cake on end to allow 
the steam to evaporate. 

624. T» T.AT >T FRUIT CASE (2).— Ingredients— One lb. of flour, 

i lb. of raisins, 4 oz. of dripping, 4 oz. of white sugar, a tea- 
cup of milk, 1 egg, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, a littla 
salt, 1 oz. of lemon peel. 

Add to the flour the baking powder and salt ; rub the drip- 
ping into the flour with your hands. Take care it is well in- 
corporated. Stone the raisins, grate the lemon rind, and with 
the sugar add to the other ingredients. Well whisk the egg, 
and mix in the milk, adding to the mixture ; thoroughly mix. 
Grease a cake tin and bake for an hour. Proceed to test if 
done, as abov6. 

625. SODA CASS. — Ingredients— One pound of flour, 3 oz. of 

butter, eight oz. of sugar, a quarter of a pint of milk, three 
eggs, i lb. of currants ; one teaspoonful of carbonate 
©f soda, grate in a quarter of a nutmeg. 

Beat the whole well and lightly together. Remember that 
the soda should only be stirred into the ingredients just before 
putting it (in a well buttered pan) into the oven. Bake it for 
about an hour and a quarter. 

626. BOOITOMIOAL PRTJIT OAZSl -Ingredients- Five oz. 

of butter, 2 lbs. of flour, ^ lb. of sugar, one lb. of cur- 
rants, one gill of yeast, enough milk to make » thick 
batter, one tablespoonful of powdered cinnamon. 

Mix the flour, leaving out a quarter of a pound, with the 
butter cut in small pieces, the sugar, cinnamon and fruit ; add 
milk enough to form a thick batter, and lastly stir in the yeast. 
Mix it over night, and set it away to rise ; in the morning stir 
in the remainder of the flour, and let it rise ; vvhen light, mould 
it out very lightly ; butter your pan, and bake it in an oven 
about as hot as for bread. 

627. NEW TORS PLTJM CASE.- Ingredients-One lb. of 

butter, 1 lb. of flour, 2 lbs. of raisins, seeded, 2 lbs. of 

currants, i oz. of ground cloves, one wineglassful of braudy, 

1 lb. of sugar, 1 lb. of citron, cut in small, thin pieces, 8 

eggs, ^ oz. of ground cinnamon; | oz. ground mace, ^ oz. of 

grated nutmeg. 

Slice the citron, pick, wnsh and dry the currants,. seed the 

raisins, and mix the fruit together, and dredge over it as much 

flour as will adhere to it. Prepare the spice. Stir the butter 

and sugar till it is smooth and light. Beat the eggs very light, 



l82 MRS. CLARKE'S COOKKRY nOOK. CaKES. 



and stir them into the butter and sugar. Add the flour and 
iruit gradually ; beat the batter till the fruit is thoroughly 
mixed with it, then add slowly the spice and liquor. Beat the 
mixture very hard for ten or fifteen minutes. Line your pans 
with two thicknesses of stout white paper, which should be 
well buttered : pour in the batter, and bake from four to five 
hours. Rose-water and lemon may be used to flavor it instead 
of the liquor ; a wineglass of rose-water, and as much lemon as 
to give it a taste. 

628. FLT7IM OASIS' — Ingredients— One pound each of butter, 

sugar and flour, 10 eggs, lib. of raisins, ^ lb. each of cur- 
rants and sliced citron, a teaspoonful of ground cloves, oue 
of mace, one nutmeg, the juice and grated i)eel of a lemon, 
half a coffee cup of molasses. 

Beat the butter till it is soft and creamy, then add the sugar. 
Beat the whites and the yolks of the eggs separately ; stir the 
yolks in with the butter and sugar ; stir the flour in gradually 
(having first njixed one heaping teaspoonful of cream of tartar 
with it). When the flour is about half worked in, put in half 
a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in as little water as is possible 
to use ; then add the whites of the eggs, and lastly the fruit, 
which is well covered with the rest of the flour. Bake in a 
large tin, with a buttered paper on the sides as well as on the 
bottom ; it will need to bake slowly for five hours. Then, do 
not attempt to lift it from the tin until it is perfectly cold. 
^This should be made several days before it is used. 

629. A RICH PLTTM CAKE-— Ingredients— One lb. of fresh 

butter, 1 lb. of powdered loaf sugar, 1 lb. of flour, IJ lbs. 
of currants, 2 lbs. candied peel, 1 lb. sweet almonds, 2 oz. 
allspice, J oz. of cinnanmon (both these in powder), 10 eggs, 
a glass of brandy. 

Beat the butter to a cream, and add the sugar ; stir till light, 
and put in the spices ; in fifteen minutes work in the eggs two 
or three at a time, then add the orang ;, lemon, and citron peel 
and currants, and mix them well wi h the almonds, blanched 
aud cut small ; last of all add the flour and brandy ; bake in a 
hot oven for three hours, in a tin hoop with plenty of paper 
underneath. 

630. SEED OAZE.— Ingredients— Ten oz. of flour, 2 oz. of 

sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and one of carraway 

seeds, 1 egg, 3 oz. of butter, a little salt, aud half a glass of 

milk. 

Mix the baking powder and salt in the flour, rub in the 

butter also (with the hands). Add the sugar and carraway 



Cakes. mrs. clarkp:s cookery book. 183 



seeds, taking care to thoroughly blend them. Well whisk the 
egg and add the milk to it, add to the other ingredients and 
beat well for about ten minutes, (irease a baking tin and 
pour the mixture in. It will take about one hour to bake. 

631. ANOTHER SEED CASE (Good).— Ingredients— 1 lb. 

of butter, 12 oz. of sifted ■nhite sugar, 6 eggs, nntniog 
grated and powdered mace to taste, 1 lb. of flour, | oz, 
of carraway seeds, ^ a gill of brandy. 

Beat the butter until of the consistency of a thin paste ; sift in 
the flour. Add the remaining ingredients excepting the eggs, 
mixing all well together. Beat the eggs separately and stir in 
the brandy, add to the other ingredients and beat the mixture 
for ten or twelve minutes. Line a tin with buttered paper and 
put the cake in and allow to bake for about one and a half or 
two hours. 

632. SEED BISCUITS.— Ingredients— 18 oz. of florr, 6 oz of 

sugar, G oz. of butter, h oz. of carraway seeds, 3 eggs. 

Beat the butter until it is of the consistency of cream. 
Work in gradually the flour, sugar, and carraway seeds. When 
thoroughly mixed add the eggs, well whisked. Roll out the 
paste, cut into fancy shapes, and bake for a cjuarter of an hour. 
It is an improvement to brush over the tops with a little milk, 
strewing a little white sugar over them. 

633. RICE CASE.— Ingrc<lieuts— Two handfuls of rice, a little 

less thai) a quart of milk, sugar to taste, rind of a lemon cut. 
in one piece, a small stick of cinnamon, 4 eggs, a small quan- 
tity of candied citron. 

Pick and wash in two or three waters the rice and put it to 
cook in the milk, sweeten to taste, add the lemon rind and 
cinnamon. Let the rice simmer gently until tender and has 
absorbed all the milk. Turn it into a basin to cool, and re- 
move the lemon rind and cinnamon. Then stir into it the 
yoHcs of four and the white of one egg. Add a little candied 
citron cut in small pieces. Butter and bread-crumb a plain 
cake mould ; put the mixture into it and bake in a quick oven 
half an hour. 

634. RICH RICE CASE' — Ingredients- One lb. of ground rice, 

1 lb. of flour, 1 11). of sugar, 17 eggs, 36 drops of 
of essence of lemon, or, if preferred, the rind of 2 lemons, .J 
lb. of ))utter. 

Whisk the eggs separately ; beat the butter to a cream, and 
add the yolks of the eggs, mixing well. Then add the flour, 
rice and lemon (if lemon rind take care it is finely minced). 
Beat the mixture for about ten minutes, and lastly add the 



184 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Cakes. 

whites of the eggs. Beat again for a quarter of an hour ; put 
into a buttered mould. It will take about an hour and a half 
to bake. 

035. RICE CAKES- — Ingredie»ts— Eight oz. of rice flour, 4 oz. 
of wliite sugar, 4 oz. of butter, 3 eggs. 

Work the butter to a creamy substance, add the sugar and 
flour, and mix in the well-whisked eggs. Roll uf>on pastry 
board and shape into cakes with a cake cutter. Bake in a 
slow oven. 

03(5, JUMBLES — iDgredieuts— Two pounds of Hour, IJ 11). 
of sugar, lialf a pint of milk, 3 eggs, ^ lb. of butter, one tea- 
spooaful of disaolved saleratus, essence of leHion according 
to taste. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the eggs, which 
must have been whisked till very thick, and some essence of 
lemon ; then pour in the milk and saleratus. The saleratus 
should be dissolved in vvater, and a teas.poonful of this solution 
oe mixed with the milk. Bake in the form of jumbles. 

637. INDIAIT LOAF GAZE —Ingredients - One lb. of Indian 
nioal, i lb. of butter, "2 eggs, Jj ib. of sugar, ^ lb. of raisins, 
i lb. of currants. 

Cut up the butter in the Indian meal ; pour over it as much 
joiling milk as will make a thick batter; beat the eggs very 
light ; when the batter is cool pour them into it. Seed the 
raisins ; wash, pick, and dry the currants ; mix them with the 
raisins, and dredge as much wheat flour on them as will ad- 
here to them. Stir the fruit into the batter, and add the sugar. 
Bake it in a moderate oven two hours. 

B38. ALMOND CASE- -Ingredients -Ten egys 1 lb. of sugar, 

4 lb. of flour, 1 wineglaaa of rose water, 1 oz. of bitter 

almonds. 

Beat the eggs — the yolks and whites separate. When the 

yolks are very light, add the sugar and the almonds, which 

must have been blanched and pounded with the rose water. 

Beat the whole well. Whisk the whites to a dry frot'h, and 

stir in one half of the white with one half of the flour till it is 

thoroughly mixed ; then add the other half of the white and 

flour. Do not beat it after the v.hilc is in, as that will make 

it tough and heavy. 

639. GEE AM GAZE AITDOHOGOLATE- -Ingredients— Two- 
thirds of a cupful of l)utter, '2 cups of white sugar, 4 eggs, J 
a glass of milk, '^ cups of prepared flour. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the yolks of the 



Cakes. mrs. clarke's cookery book. 185 

iggs, well beaten, the milk and then the whites of the eggs 
also well beaten to a froth, alternately with the flour ; when 
cold spread with the following filling : — A cup of milk, a des- 
sertspoonful of corn starch, an egg, a teaspoonful of vanilla, i 
a cup of sugar. Scald the milk; mix in the corn-starch, pre- 
viously moistened with a little cold milk ; pour over the well- 
beaten eggs and sugar ; allow to rc.nain on the fire until thick, 
stirring well. Flavor when cold. Serve with chocolate. 

640. QUBBN OASES— Ingreilienta— One lb. of dried flour, same 
of gifted sugar and of waalied clean currants, I lb. of butter, 
8 eggs. 

Mix the flour, sugar and currants ; wash the butter in rose- 
water, beat it well, then mix with it the eggs, yolks and whites 
beaten separately, and put in the dry ingredients by degrees ; 
beat the whole for one hour ; butter litilc tins and put the mix- 
ture in, only filling half full, and bake ; sift a little fine sugar 
over just as you put into the oven. 

G41. QUEEN'S GAZE (2).— Ingredients- One lb. of fine flour, 
i lb. of powdered white sugar, the same of butter, and of 
currants, ^ pt. of cream, 3 eggs, a teaspoonful of carbonate 
of soda, flavoring, cither lemon or almond. 

When the butter is beaten to a cream, sift in the fiour, then 
put in the currants and sugar, being careful to mix the ingred- 
ients well together ; beat the eggs, pour in the cream and fla- 
voring and pour into the flour, etc. Finally, mix in the car- 
bonate of soda, and mix we41 for quarter of an hour. Pour the 
paste into little buttered tins and bake about twenty minutes. 

642. SPIOB CAKE.— Ingredients— Two cups of flour, 2 cups of 

sugar, 'A eggs, 4 teaspoonfuls of baking povsdcr, 1 cup of but- 
ter, 1 gill of boiling water. 

This is a very handy cake ; any filling convenient may be 
used. 

643. GINGER OIlT CAKE.— Ingredients— Two cups of butter, 

'2 cup-" of sugar, 1 cup of molasses, 1 cup of cream, 3 eggs, 1 
tablespoonful of disHoived saleratus, 4 heaping cups of flour, 
half a cup of ginger. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; whisk the eggs light, 
and add to it ; then stir in 'he other ingredients. Butter a 
pan or earthen mould, and p ur in the mixture. Bake in a 
moderate oven, or it may be baked in queen cake pan§. 

644. GINGER NTJTS--Iagredient8— Half lb. of butter, i lb. 

of sugar, 1 pint of molasses, 2 oz. ginger, 2 tabltispoonfula 



i86 MRS. clauke's cookery rook. Cakes. 



of cinnamon, as much flour as will form a dough, A an oz. 
of ground cloves and allspice mixed. 

Stir the butter and sugar toj^ether ; add the spice, ginger, 
molasses, and flour enough to form a dough. Knead it well, 
make it out in small cakes, bake them on tins in a very moder- 
ate oven. Wash them over with molasses and water before 
they are put in to bake. 

045. anraBR NTJTS (2).— Ingroaicntis-Jlalf lb. of butter, 2 lbs. 
of Hour, 1 pt. of molasses, 2 eggs, G oz. ground ginger, 3 oz. 
ground allspice, 1 oz. powdered cinnamon. 

Mi.\ in the same manner as for gingerbread. Roll out the 
dough into ropes about half inch thick ; cut these transversely 
into pieces, which roll into small balls ; place these at a little 
distance apart, upon greased baking sheets, and flatten Jiem 
down with the palm of your hand ; when the sheet is full, wash 
them over the tops with a brush dipped in thin mokibscs, and 
bake in a moderate oven. 

04G. GUTGER BREAD-— Ingredients— Half lb. of moist sugar, 
2 oz. of ground ginger 1 lb. of flour, ,j lb. of butter, ^ lb. of 
tre.icle. 

Put the butter and treacle into a jar near the fire ; when the 
butter is melted mix it with the flour while warm, and spread 
the mixture thinly on buttered tins, mark it in squares before 
baking, and as soon as baked enough separate it at the marks 
before it has time to harden. Time to bake, fifteen minutes. 

047. HONEYCOMB GUTGERBREAD.-Ingredients-^ lb. of 

flour, ^ lb. of the coarsest brown sugar, J lb. of butter, one 
dessertspoonful of allspice, two ditto of grouu<l ginger, the 
peel of half a lemon grated, and the whole of the juice ; mix 
all these ingredients together, adding about ^Ib. of treacle so 
as to make a paste suflicieutly thin to spread upon sheet tins. 

Beat well, butter the tins, and spread the paste very thinly 
over them, bake it in a rather slow oven, and watch it till it is 
done ; withdraw the tins, cut it in squares with a knife to the 
usual size of wafer biscuits (about four inches square), and roll 
each piece round the fingers as it is raised from the tin. 

048. DROP GIITGER CAKES.— Ingredients— Put in a bowl 

one cup of brown sugar, one of molasses, one of butter, then 
pour over them one cup boiling water, stir well ; add one egg, 
well beaten, two teaspoonfuls of soda, two tablespoonfuls 
each of ginger and cinnamon, a half teaspoonful of ground 
cloves, five cups of flour. 

Stir altogether and drop with a spoon on buttered tins ; bake 
in a quick oven, taking care not to burn them. 



C.'KES. r,!Rs. Clarke's cooKERV I300K. i'6j 



64'J. GUTOER BIS0T7ITS.— Ingrc.liei.ta lluL 4 o/. of fresh hut- 
tur iuto i lb. of flour, add 3 talilespooiifulh of sugar, ^ ok. of 
grouud ginger, and one egg beaten up witb u little Uiilk to a 
iiinooth paste. 

Bake on buttered paper for ten minutes. Keep the biscuits 
in a tin in a dry place. 

050. GINGER SITAPS-— Ingrodicnta— Two cups of butter, 2 cups 

of molasses, 2 teaspoonfuls of ginger, 2teaspooiifuls of salciu- 
tus dissolved in one cup of boiling water. 

Knead soft, roll thin, and bake in quick oven. 

051. TIPSY CASE- — Ingredients — A moulded sponge cake, straw- 

berry preserve, a little wine, brandy and water, about \ lb. 
of sweet almonds, custard. 

Scoop out carefully the centre of the moulded sponge cake, 
so as to leave the shape intact ; fill the cavily with strawberry 
preserve, then cover with a layer of cake, and place it in a 
glass dish to soak with a little light wine and brandy and water. 
This should be poured gently over it with a spoon until all the 
wine is absorbed ; then stick it all over with the sweet almonds 
blanched and cut finely, and lastly fill the dish with custard, 
or, if preferred, hand the latter round in custard cups. 

052. TIPSY 0AZE.(2) — Ingredients - A large stale sponge cake, 

i pt. of sherry, a wineglassful of brandy, i lb. of SM'eet al- 
monds, a little orange flower water, 1 pt. of milk, yolks of six 
eggs, sugar to taste, crystallized fruit. 

Take the sponge cake, cut the bottom of it so as to make it 
stand even on a glass dish. Make numerous incisions in it 
with a knife, and pour over it the sherry and brandy ; let the 
cake soak these all up. Blanch, peel, and slice the sweet al- 
monds, and stick the cake all over with them. Blanch, chop 
and pound in a mortar a quarter pound of sweet almonds, 
moistening with a little orange-flower water to prevent their 
oiling, add one pint of milk and the yolks of six eggs, sweeten 
to taste with pounded loaf sugar. Stir over the fire till the cus- 
tard thickens, but do not let it boil. Keep stirring now and then 
till it is quite cold, then pour it round the cake. Garnish the 
dish with crystallized fruit, and it is ready. 

653. SHALL ITO^GATS- — Ingredients— l lb. of sweet almonds, 
i lb. white sugar, oil of sweet almonds. 

Blanch the almonds, and cut each lengthwise into thin nar- 
row pieces, lay them on a dish in front of the fire, or in thfe oven 
(with the door open), to get perfectly dry ; melt in a sugar- 
boiler the sugar ; when the sugar is a rich brown put in the al- 
monds^ mix them well but carefully together, and you will have 



iS8 MRS. Clarke's cookery nooK. Cakes. 



a soft paste, which will liarilcn when cold. Make some small 
moulds very hot ; sli;'htly but thoroughly oil them with oil of 
sweet almonds, put some of the mixture in one of them, and 
with the handle of a tcu:noon previously oiled, spread it out so 
as completely to line the mould ; trim the edges, auJ when cold 
turn out the nougat. Having made a number in the same way, 
serve them with sweetmeats inside each. The nougats should 
be very thin. Any kind of mould, large or small, may be used, 
but the work must be done quickly, for the sugar soon becomes 
too stilit to be spread into position. 

054. AFPLB OAKB.— Ingredients- 1} lb. of applca cut and 
cored, 1 lb. lump sugar, the juice of three leiuoiis, and about 
half the rinda grated. 

Simmer in a stew-pan for ''our hours until it becomes quite 
stirt. Then put into a mould, in which let it remain all night. 
Before turning out plunge the mould in warm water to prevent 
it sticking. 

655. "WASHIiraTON CASE. Tngrodipnts— 1 lb. of sugar, | lb. 

of butter, 4 t-ggs, I lb. tlour, I teacupful of inilk, 2 ieaspoon- 
f uls of dissolved saleratus, .3 tablespoonfuls of brandy, ^ a 
teaspoonful of cinnamon, half a nutmeg, 1 lb. dried currants, 
washed, picked, and wiped dry. 

Beat the butter and sugar until it is smooth and light. 
Whisk the eggs till they are thick, and add ihem to the butter 
and sugar. Stir in the flour, brandy, and spice. Flour the 
fruit, and stir it in. Beat the whole very hard for fifteen min- 
utes. Then stir in the saleratus. Line the sides and bottom of 
your pan with thick paper ; butter it well, pour in the mixture, 
and bake it in a moderate oven. 

656. METHOPOLITAN" CASE.— Tngrcdienta -Light part : 2 

cups sugar, ^ cup butter, I up sweet milk, 2^ cups of flour, 
whites of 5 eggs, 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Dark part : 
i cup molasses, i cup flour, 1 cup raisins, 1 teaspoonful 
cinnamon, i teaspoonful cloves, 2 largo spoonfuls of the light 
part. 

Bake the light part in two cakes. Bake the dark part in one 
cake and place between the two light cakes with jelly or 
frosting. 

657. QATEATT SE SAV07E (Fronch Spongro Oalcd-)- In- 

gredients — (Take the weight of 8 eggs in their sheila) of finely 
powdered white sugar and half their quantity of potato flour, 
2 eggs, juice of half a lemon, some (glace) sugar (icing), pre- 
served cherries, and sugar plums. 

Put the sugar and the yolks of the eggs in a basin, and beat 



Cakes. mrs. clarke's cookery rook. 189 



them well together with an egg whisk or with a fork until the 
mixture assumes a white creamy appearance. Add essence of 
lemon to taste. Sprinkle in (beatinj; the mixture all the time) 
half the potato flour, and add the whiles of four eggs whisked 
to a stiff froth. Then put in, in the same manner, the rest of 
the flour ; and lastly add the remaining four whites beaten to 
a froth. As soon as the composition is smoothly mixed to- 
gether — and this must be done quickly — pour it into a buttered 
plain mould, and bake it in a slow oven. When quite done, 
turn the cake out of the mould and leave it to get cold. In the 
meantime put the whites of two eggs into a basin, with the 
juice of halt a lemon and some glace sugar ; stir the mixture 
briskly with a wooden spoon, adding more glace sugar as it gets 
thin, until it becomes a smooth white pjaste of the consistency 
of butter. Lay the mixture all over the cake with a knife, and 
lay it on as smoothly as possible. Put the cake in the oven 
just long enouj^h for the icing to glaze. Take it out, and before 
the icing has time to cool ornament the cake with preserved 
cherries, small coloured sugarplums, &c., in any pattern you 
please. 

658. SPON&E OAZE- — Ingredients — Five eggs, ^ lb. loaf sugar, 

the grated rind and juice of one lemon, \ lb. flour. 

Separate the yolks from the whites. Heat the yolks and sugar 
together until they are very light ; then add the whites, after 
they have been whisked to adry froth ; alternately with the flour 
stir in the lemon, pnt the mixture in small pans, sift sugar 
over them, and bake them. 

659. ITALIAN SPONGE CAKE— Ingredients— One lb. of white 

sugar, 18 eggH, 1 lb. potiito flour. 
Put into a large basin the sugar and half the number of eggs; 
beat for ten minutes with an egg-whisk. Then place the basin 
in a large vessel containing hot water. Add the rest of the eggs, 
and continue beating the mixture for ten minutes longer, 
sprinkle in the potato flour and continue beating, taking care 
that it is mixed very slowly with the eggs and sugar. Pour in- 
to a buttered mould and bake in a slow oven. 

660. HIOSORT NXJT CASE —Ingredients— One and one-half 

cupf uls of sugar, half a eupf ui of butter, a sc:ant half-cupful 
of sweet milk, two cupfuls of flour, three eggs, two teaspoon- 
fulfl of cream-tartar, one of soda or three teaspooiifuls of bak- 
ing powder. 

Bake in layers. Filling for same : — One cupful of* sweet 
cream or milk ; let it come to a boil ; then stir in one 
tablespoonful of corn starch which has previously been wet 
with gold milk ; svyeet^n to taste ; let it just bojl up ; rennove 



IQO MRS. CLARKF.'S COOKFRY POOK. CaKES. 

from the fire, and stir in one pint of pulverized hickory nut 
meats. Flavor to taste, and when partially cool spread be- 
tween each two layers. 

(i()l. LAST PIITGEIIS- — Tngredienta — 4 oz. of sugar, 4 yolka of 
eggs, mix well ; .'{ oz. flour, a pinch of salt. 

Beat the four whites and stir in gradually ; butter u shallow 
pan and squirt the mixture through a piece of stiff paper rolled 
up ; dust with sugar and bake in a not too hot oven. 

''02. SQT7ASH CAKES- —In^'i'edients — Sieve two and one-half 
cnpB of cooked squash ; add a pint of milk, two oggs, a pint 
of flour, one teaspoonful of sugar, two teaspoouf uls of baking 
powder and a little salt. 

Heat together until smooth and fry brown in butter. 

«i'i3. STRAWBERUT SHORT-OASB. — Ingredients— Butter, 
flour, strawberries, sugar, whipped cream. 

Make a rich, short crust with butter and flour, a'lowing one 
ounce more of flour than butter ; bake in flat tins of equal si;^e 
(the pastry when baked should be about an inch thick) ; open 
the shortcake, butter it well, and cover one-half with a layer of 
strawberries previously mixed with sugar ; have alternate lay- 
ers of berries and pastry, finishing with the former, over which 
place a layer of whipped cream. 

(JU4, SnORT-OASB (Spanish) —Ingredients— Three eggs, half 
a cup of butter, oius cup of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of 
sweet milk, a little cinnamon, two cups of flour and one 
tcaspoonful of balding powder. 

Stir the flour in, do not knead it ; the eggs, butter and sugar 
should be beaten together till very light ; bake in a shallow tin; 
when it is done spread a thin frosting over the top ; make this 
of the white of one egg, a little pulverized sugar and a tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon ; set it in the oven to brown. 

G65. SHORT-OAZE (Blackberry), -ingredients— Two qts. of 
flour, 3 tableapoonfuls of butter, 2 of lard, "21 cups of 
buttermilk, or thick sour milk, yolks of 2 eggs, a tcaspoon- 
ful of soda and salt. 

Mix the salt in the flour, then work in the shortening ; beat 
the yolks of the eggs ; dissolve the soda in a little hot water 
and add to the above proportion of milk ; add these to the 
first mixture ; quickly make into a paste, roll out half an inch 
thick, having upper and under crust. Lay the paste in a well 
greased baking tin, cover thickly with berries, sprinkle with 
sugar, cover with the top crust. Bake about half an hour ; cut 
into squares and oat (splitting these open) with sugar and but- 
ter. 



CaKICS. MRS CI.ARKIi's COOKERY DOOK.. I9I 



(»»)«. SHORT-CASB (Scotch). -Ingredients- Four or. of whita 

sugar, A 11). ut slightly aalted butter, 1 11). of Hour. 

Mix the flour and butter with the hands ; then add the 
sugar, and work all into a smooth ball ; then roll out until it 
is an inch thick ; prick over with a fork and pinch round the 
edges, ;md bake for one-half hour in an oven with a moderate 
fire, in a rouiui or scjuare pan, accordinjj to taste. 

wj7. SKOHT-OAZE (RasplDorry or Hucklelserry). Tngredi- 

ciitH Onu ({t. i)t Hour, "J tai)lc8pooiiful8 each of butter and 
1,11(1, - liiilf (lips of butteiniilk, yolks of "J eggw, a teawpoonful 
of soda ami .suit, I (^t. of raspberries or iuioklulierrics. 

Sort the flour ; chop up the lard and butter in the flour, whisk 
well the volks of the egys ; dissolve the soda in a little warm 
w«tcr. Make all these ingredients into a soft paste. Roll 
lightly in two sheets ; lay the bottom crust in a greased square 
pan ; strew thickly with berries, sprinkle with sugar and cover 
with the upper crust. Bake about half an hour; cut mto 
squares and send to table pnud upon a dish. Split and eat 
with butter and sugar. 

(iUS. CHOCOLATE CASE- — Ingredients — Half a lb. of butter, 
yolk.s of 1 J (ggf , Ul), of white sugar, same of ground uhnou(l.s, 
:J 11), of chocolate, *_' labkspoor.fuU of einnainon, ^ tcspoon- 
ful of pouudcd clovt s. 

Melt the butter and stir it until it froths, beat the yolks of 
the eggs and stir into the butter ; add the sugar and pounded 
almonds, grated chocolate, cinnamon and pounded cloves, beat 
well for fifteen minutes ; then beat the whites of the eggs to a 
froth, and add these to the above mixture ; butter the mould, 
and bake the above in a moderate oven for an hour and a 
quarter. 

<i'i!>. CHOCOJ.ATE CAKE (2). 

Beat for ten minutes the yolks of three eggs, stir them into 
the butter, add two ounces of sugar, two ounces of Jordan 
almonds, blanched and pounded, two ounces of powdered 
ch£)colate, half a teaspoonful of cinnamon, and the same of 
cloves, pounded. Stir well for a quarter of an hour, then add 
the whites of the eggs, beaten to a froth ; butter a mould and 
bake in a moderate oven for an hour. 

070. HATATIAS- — Ingredients— 8 oz. of sweet almonds, 4of bit. 
ter. 10 oz. of white sugar, 4 eggs. 

Blanch and skin the almonds, and pound them in a marble 
mortar with the white of an egg ; add gradually the sugar, and 
the whites of three eggs, having previously well whisked them. 



192 MRS. Clarke's COOKERY BOOK. Cakes. 

Take a larp-i sheet of cartridge paper and dr»p the mixture 
through a biscuit syringe upon it and bake for about twelve 
minutes. The oven should be rather quick, and the cakes 
sliould not be larger than a 25c. piece. 

071. LJSMQIT CASE- — Ingredients— 10 oz.eachol white sugar and 
flour, 9 eggs, 3 large spoonfuls of orange flower water, 1 lemon. 

Beat separately the whites and yolks of the eggs. When the 
former is a *tiff froth add the flower water, the sugar, and 
grated lemon rind. Mix these ingredients for about ten min- 
utes ; now mix in the yolks of the eggs and lemon juice ; lastly 
dredge in the flour, beating the mixture all the time. Fill a 
buttered mould with the mixture, and bake for an honr. 

672. MACAHOOITS- — Ingredients— 4 oz. of almonds, 4spoonfulsof 

orange tiower water, 1 lb, of white sugar, wafer paper, 4 eggs, 

Blanch the almonds, and pound with the orange-flower 
water ; whisk the whites of four eggs to a froth, then mix it, 
and a pound cf sugar sifted with the almonds, to a paste ; and 
laying a sheet of wafer-paper on a tin, put it on in different 
little cakes, the shape of macaroons. Bake from fifteen to 
twenty minutes. 

673. Case "WITHOUT Ea&S-— ingredients -2 lbs. flour, 1 lb. 

currants, 1 lb, sugar (half white and half brown), i lb, clari- 
fied dripping or butter, rather more than 1 pint of milk or 
buttermilk, 1 large teaspoonful of salt, 4 dracJmis of bicar- 
bonate of soda, 4 drachms of muriatic acid. 

Beat the dripping to a cream, dissolve the soda in some of the 
milk, and pour the muriatic acid into the rest ; mix all the in- 
gredients well together; .. should be a very thick batter. 
Candied peel may be added or used instead ot the currants ; 
the flour should be dried. Mix the milk with the carbonate of 
soda well into the other ingredients before adding the muriatic 
acid. The strength of the muriatic acid should be i — 165. 
The best tin for baking cakes is round, nine inches in diameter, 
with a chimney up the middle, where a round hole is cut out of 
the bottom of ihe tin. Anyone adopting these cakes should be 
provided with a small box containing scales and weights, and 
a minim or drop measure. 

674. MALAQ-A CAKE— In^.-Jedi-ivfa—l cup of butter, 2 cups of 

sugar, ^ cup of sweet lai poonfuls of baking powder, 

3 cups of flour, whites ot^^ ^py, trilling,: — Whites of 3 eggs 
beaten with sngar, 1 ctSj-V £ ■ jc4ded and chopped raisins, 2 
teaepoonfuls of extract of Ip^nftBi. 

Beat to a cream the butter ana sugar, add the milk ; mix the 
baking powder with the flour ; beat the whites of the eggs to a. 
froth, stir all together and flavor with lemon. Bake in sheets, 
find when done spread with the above filling. 



Cakes. Mrs. c'i.arke's ddoKuRV book. tg^ 



675. OBABLOTTE A LA F0L01TAISE-— Ingicdients — A 

sponge Cake, cream, sugar, swcetirleats. 

Make a sponge cake, cut it transversely, dip each piece in 
cream, and then place them back wliere they were, so as to 
give the cake its original form as near as possible. When thus 
reformed, cover it with cream, dust with sugar, and decorate 
it with any kind of sweetmeats. Besides the sweetmeats that 
are placed here and there all around, some currant jelly may 
be used to decorate. Place on ice for some time and serve. 

676. SILVER CASE.— Ingredients— J lb. of sugar, ^ lb of flour, 

^ lb. of butter, whites of 8 egga, 1 heaped teaspoouful of ess- 
ence of bitter almonds. 

Cream the butter and sugar ; whisk the eggs to a stiff froth 
and add ; lastly the flour and fl.ivoring. Flavor icing of this 
cake with rose water. 

677. OOOOAITUT CAKE.— Ingredients -G oz of butter, 1 lb. of 

sugar, 1 lb. of flour, 1 large cupful of milk, 1 teaspoonful of 
boda, 2 of ;ream-of-tartar. 

Rub the butter into the flour ; add the sugar and cream-of- 
tartar ; well whisk the eggs ; dissolve the soda in a little warm 
water, adding these to other ingredients. Bake in layers as for 
jelly cake. Icing to place between the layers : — 8 oz. of white 
sugar, whites ot two eggs. Well whisk the eggs and sugar, add 
the grated cocoanut and place between the layers. 

678. SCOTOn SITO^ OAEIE- — Ingredients — 7 oz. white sHgar, 

1 lb. arrowroot, j^ lb. butter, wJ'i;fe8 of 7 eggs, any flavoring 
that is preferred. 

Beat the butter until like cream, and while beating add 
gradually the arrowroot and sugar. When the whites of the 
eggs are beaten to a stiff froth, mix with the other ingredients 
and beat for a quarter of an hour. Flavor to taste, pour into 
buttered mould and bake for an hour and a quarter. 

079, SCOTCH OAT CAKE.— Ingredients — 8 oz. Scotch oatmeal, 
a small spoonful of butter, as much cax'bouate of soda as will 
lay on a 5c. piece. 

Place the butter in a ter^tT*^--vLUi the above proportion of 
soda, and pour upon this J3^^^iHi?i2aip of hot water. Mix until 
both are melted. Having p- leal into a basin (hold/ng 

about a pint) pour quickly thj contents of the teacup upon it, 
and mix well with the point of Knife. Place upon the paste- 
board and with the knuckles spread it out gradually. Care 
must be taken that the edges do not crack. Sprinkle pleniy 
M 



194 MRS. CLARKi^.'S COOKERY BOOK. CakES. 



of dry meal over it and roll with a crimped roller to the thick- 
ness of a quarter of an inch. Take care to keep the paste 
round. Then put the knife in >'he centre and divide into three. 
Place them upon a hot griddle, and as they get done move in 
order from a cool spot to a warmer. When they are done 
enough they will not be doughy. Remove from the fire on to 
a toaster before the fire and allow them to dry gradually, and 
as done remove from the fire, stand them on edge to allow to 
get cold. Proceed in this manner tWl the mixture is used. 

680. RICH SEI1^?< CASE — Ingredients— 5 lbs. sifted flour, 3 
lbs. fresh butter, 2 lbs. white sugar, p lbs, currants, i^ lbs. 
of sweet alrnonds, 2 lb. of candied citron, 6 oz. each of 
candied orange and lemon peel, i oz, of mace, half a ^ of 
cloves, 17 eggs, 1 gill each of brandy and wine, 2 nutmegs, 
a little orange-flower water. 

Blanch and pound the almonds, adding a little orange flower 
water to prevent oiling. Then proceed to work the butter with 
the hands until of the consistency of cream. Add the smgar. 
Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and add to the 
butter and sugar. Beat the yolks of the eggs for twelve min- 
utes, and add them to the flour, grated nutmeg, and finely 
powdered mace and cloves, beating the whole for three- 
quarters of an hour. Then proceed to add lightly the almonds, 
with the thinly sliced peel, and lastly the brandy and wine. 
Then beat for one half an hour. Line your cake tin with but- 
tered paper, and fill with the mixture. The oven should be 
tolerably quick, but great care must be taken that it is not too 
fierce, or the cake will brown before it begins to soak,. It will 
take about 6 hours to bake. Test if done as in Recipe for 
plain Fruii cake No. 623. Turn on end to allow the steam to 
evaporate, and spread with icing when cold. See Recipe for 
" Almond Icing," No. 621. 

6S1. -WHITE SHIDE CASE. 

Take one pound of butter, put it into a basm and beat it 
with your hand till it comes to a fine cream, then add one and 
one-quarter pounds of pulverized sugar, and beat together 
until it is fine and white : then add one pound of sifted flour, 
give it a stir and then add the whites of fourteen eggs ; con- 
tinue to beat it and add another pound of flour and fourteen 
more whites ; beat well ; mix all together, paper your dish 
around the sides and bottom, put in your batter and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

tf82. PLAIN LUNOHBOIT CAKB-Ingredienta— i lb. of butter, 

2 oz, of drippiii^j, li cg!^.-i well beat 11, ^ lb. lu •i,st sugar, ^ lb, 



Cakes. *«m. clarke's cookery fiooiC igf 

of currants, J lb. sultanaa, 2 oz. candied peel, J lb. of flour, 
2 teaspoonf ula of baking powder. 

Melt the bulter and dripping in the oven, let it stand till 
cool, then add the eggs, moist sugar, currants, sultanas, and 
candied peel, cut up finely. Have ready :n a seperate basin 
the flour mixed with two teaspoonfuls of baking po vder ; and 
add this gradually to the other mgredients ; bake f n hour and 
a half in a moderate oven. These cakes are excel .ent. 

683. SSHEVSBUHT OAKB.— Ingredients — One lb. of sugar, 
pounded cinnamon, a little grated nutmeg, ? lbs. of llour, a 
little >ros« water, 3 eggs, melted butter. 

Sift the sugar, cinnamon and nutmeg into the flour (which 
must be of the finest kind ) ; add the rose water to the eggs 
and mix with tha flour, etc., then pour in enough melted butter 
to make it a good thickness and roll out. Mould well, roll 
thinly, and cut into such shapes as you like. 

G5t. liIARBLE SnOE ASS-— Ingredients— Three-quarters of 
a pound of liour, well dried ; 1 lb. w bite sugar, ^ lb. of 
butter, whites of 14 eggs, 1 tablespoouful of cream tartar 
mixed with the flour. 

When the cake is r>-.ixed, take out about ateacupful of batter 
and stir into it one teaspo -nlul of cinnamon, one of mace, one 
of cloves, two of spice and one of nutmeg. Fill your mould 
about an inch deep with the white batter, and drop into this, 
in several places, a spoonful of the dark mixture ; then put in 
another layer of white, and add the dark as before ; repeat 
this until your batter is used up. This makes one large cake. 

686. OORN STAUCH OAKB.— Ingredients— Four eggs, whites 
only ; 1 cup of butter, § cup of com starch, ^ cup of sweet 
milk, 1 cup flour, 2 teaapooufuls baking powder, lemon or 
rose water flavoring. 

Cream the butter and sugar thoroughly either with the 
hand or a silver spoon ; mix the corn starch with the milk, 
and add ; then add the eggs, beaten stiff, next the sifted 
flour, into which the baking powder has been stirred. Put 
into well greased mould and bake. 

686. POTATO OASB.— Ingredients— A few maahed potatoes 

melted butter, flour. 

Take the potatoes and stir in melted butter according to tho 
(quantity of potatoes used ; thicken to a paste with flour, bake 
in a quick oven and serve hot. 



196 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Cakes. 



G87. CItACZ3^ELS. — Intrredients— Ono qt. of flour, i a nutmeg, 
4 tiggs, 4 Hpocfufuls of rood water, 1 lb. of butter. 

Mix with the flour, the nutmeg grated, the yolks of the eggs, 
beaten, and the rose water, into a stiff paste with cold water; 
then roll in the butter and make into cracknel shape ; put them 
into a kettle of boiling water, and boil them till they swim, 
then take ou* and put them into cold water ; when hardened, 
lay them out to dry and bake on tin plates. 

088. OUAITQ-B BISOTTITS-— Ingredients— Four whole Seville 
oranges, loaf sugar pounded. 

Boil the oranges in two or three waters until most of the 
bitterness has gone ; then cut them and remove the pulp and 
juice ; beat tne outside very finely in a mortar, and add to it an 
equal weight of fine white sugar, well pounded and sifted. 
When well mixed to a paste, spread it thinly on china dishes, 
and set to dry before the fire ; when half dry, cut into shapes, 
turn the other side up, dry that well^ and then pack in boxes 
with layers of papers between. 

689. OATMEAL BISCUITS.— Ingredients- Six oz. of flour, 3 

oz. of oatmeal and white sugar, 3 oz. of butter, enough cur- 
bouate of soda to lie on a 5c. piece, 1 large egg. 

Melt the butter and add to the flour, oatmeal, sugar, and 
soda ; mix thoroughly ; put a tablespoonful of cold water into 
a basin and break the egg into it and whisk slightly ; add this 
to the other ingredients and mix smoothly ; turn on to a well- 
floured board, roll as thinly as possible and cut into shapes 
with a cake-cutter. Grease a baking tin, and bake for about 
twenty minutes. 

690. EOOZ BISCUITS.— Ingredients— Half a dozen eggs, 1 lb. of 

white sugar, 9 oz. of flour, ^ lb. of currantb. 

Beat the eggs until very light, add the sugar and mix 
thoroughly ; add the flour and currants, gradually mixing ail 
the time. Place upon greased tins in the form of small pieces 
of rock. This is best done with a fork. Bake half an hour, and 
keep in a tin canister. 

691. LEMOU BISCUITS.— Ingredients— One lb. of flour, i lb of 

white sugar, J lb. of fresh butter, 1 oz. of iemou peel, 1 
tablespoonful of lemon juice, 3 eggs. 

Add the butter to the flour and rub finely with the hands ; 
mince the lemon peel and stir it and the sugar into the former 
mixture ; well whisk the eggs and lemon juice, and thoroughly 
mix the whole. Drop from a spoon to a greased baking tin 
about two inches apart. Bake for twenty minutes. 



Cakes. mrs. clarke's cookery book. 197 

692. OOOOANnT BISOTJITS— IngredicntB— Six oz. of cocoanut 

grated, 9 oz. of white sugar, 3 eggs. 

Whisk the eggs for about twelve minutes, then sprinkle in 
the sugar gradually, lastly the cocoanut ; form with your hands 
into little pyramids ; place upon white paper, and the paper on 
tins. Bake in a cool oven until slightly brown. 

693. BISOXJIT POWDER (for TjaWes). 

Dry plain biscuits in a slow oven. Roll them with a rolling 
pin. Then grind in a marble mortar till reduced to powder. 
Keep in a tin canister. 

694. ZIZOE BISOTTITS- — Ingredients— Half lb. of ground rice, 5 

oz. of white sugar, 4 of butter, 2 eggs. 

Well beat the butter ; stir in gradually the ground rice and 
sugar ; well whisk the eggs and add to the ^ther ingredients. 
Roll out on the paste board and cut into shapes with paste 
cutter. Place upon greased tin and bake a quarter of an hour 
in a slow oven. 

695. SODA BISOTJITS— Ingredients— Three pints of flour, 1 

tablespoonful of butter and 1 tablespconful of l?ird, a tea- 
spoonful of salt and a teaspoon even full of cream of tartar, 1 
teaspoonful of soda. 

Sift the cream of tartar with the flour dry, rub the butter and 
lard very thoroughly through it ; dissolve the soda in a pint of 
milk and mix all together. Roll out, adding as little flour as 
possible ; cut with a biscuit cutter, and bake twenty minutes 
in a quick oven. 

696. PLAIN AND VERT ORISP BISOTJITS.-Ingredients- 

One lb. of flour, yolk of 1 egg, some milk. 

Make into a very stiff paste ; beat it well, and knead till quite 
smooth ; roll very thin, and cut into biscuits. Bake them in a 
slow oven till quite dry and crisp. 

697. BARD BISOTTITS- — Ingredients —2 oz. of butter, akimmed 

milk, 1 lb. of flour. 
Warm the butter in as much skimmed milk as will make a 
pound of flour into a very stiff paste, beat it with a rollinft-pin, 
and work it very smooth. Roll it thin and cut it into round 
biscuits ; prick them full of holes with a fork. About six min- 
utes will bake them. 

698. BISOTJITS OF PRTJIT.—Ingredienta— To the pulp of any 

scalded fruit put an equal weight of sugar sifted. 

Beat it two hours, then put it into little white paper forms, 
dry in a cool oven, turn the next day, and in two or three days 
box them. 



PASTRY & PUDDINGS. 

OBSERVATIONS. 

A good hand at pastry will use less butter and produce 
lighter crust than others. Salt butter is very good, and if 
well washed makes a good flaky crust. If the weather is 
warm the butter should be placed in ice water to keep it as 
firm as possible ; when lard is used take care it is perfectly 
sweet. 

In making pastry {See Recipes Nos. 820 to 846), as in 
other arts, " practice will make perfect ; " it should be 
touched as lightly as possible, made in a cool place, and 
with hands perfectly cool ; if possible, use a marble slab in- 
stead of a pastry board ; if the latter is used, it is better to 
procure it made of hardwood. 

It is important to use great expedition in the preparation 
of pastry, and care must be taken not to allow it to stand 
long before baking, or it will become flat and heavy. A 
brisk oven will be required for puff p?.stry ; a good plan to 
test the proper heat is to put a small piece of the paste in 
before baking the whole. Be sure t'lat the oven is as near 
perfection as possible ; for, " an oven in which the heat is 
not evenly distributed can never pn)duce a well-baked pie 
or tart ; where there is an unequal degree of heat the pastry 
rises on the hottest side in the shaoe of a large bubble and 
sinks into a heavy indigestible lump ^ .1 the coolest." This 
is a truism which many people riust have discovered for 
themselves, as they would be well accustomed to the sight 
of miniature mountains and tableland on their tarts and pies. 
Raised pie crust should have a good soaking heat, and 
glazed pastry rather a slack heat. When suet is used it 
must be perfectly free from skin and minced as finely as 
possible; beef suet is consider jd the best. 

All moulds, pie-dishes, patty-pans, and vessels of all de- 
scriptions used for baking or ooiling must be well buttered. 

The outside of a boiled pu Jdin;; often tastes disagreeably, 
which arises from the cloth Jiot being nicely washed, and 

198 



Puddings. mrs. ci.arke's cookery book. 199 



kept in a dry place. It should be dipped in boiling water, 
squeezed dry, and floured when to be used. 

If bread, it should be tied loosely, if batter, tightly over. 

The water should boil quickly when the pudding is put in ; 
and it should be moved about for a minute, lest the ingredi- 
ents should not mix. 

Batter pudd'ng should be strained through a coarse sieve 
when all is mixtd. In others the eggs separately. 

A pan of cole water should be ready, and the pudding 
dipped in as soon as it comes out of the pot, and then it will 
not adhere to the cloth. 

Very good puddings may be made without ^g<g% ; but they 
must have as little milk as will mix, and must boil three or 
four hours. A few spoonfuls of fresh small beer, or one of 
yeast, will answer instead of eggs. 

Snow is an excellent substitute for eggs either in pud- 
dings or pancakes. Two large spoonfuls will supply the 
place of one egg, and the article it is used in will be equally 
good. This is a useful piece of information, especially as 
snow often falls at the season when eggs are the dearest. 
Fresh small beer, or bottled malt liquors, likewise serve in- 
stead of eggs. The snow may be taken up from any clean 
spot before it is wanted, and will not lose its virtue, though 
the sooner it is used the better. 

Note. — The yolks and whites beaten long and separately, 
make the article they are put into much lighter. 



699. ALMOITD PTJDDIITG- — Ingredients - Three quarters lb. 

sweet almonds, a large spoonful of rose water, 6 eggs, 3 
spoonfuls of pounded white sugar, 1 quart of milk, ,S spoon- 
fuls of powdered crackers, 4 oz. of clarified butter, same of 
citron cut into pieces. 

Blanch, and pound the almonds in the rose water ; beat the 
eggs to a stiff froth with the sugar, mix the milk with the 
crackers, butter and citron ; add almonds, etc. : stir all to- 
gether, and bake in a small pudding dish with a lining and rim 
of pastry. This pudding is nicer eaten cold. Bake an hour 
and a half in a quick oven. 

700. AMBER PT7DDI1T&.— Ingredients -One lb. of fresh butter, 

i lb. loaf sugar, 8 eggs, jam. 

Line a pudding dish with good puff paste, take the yolks of 



200 MRS. CLARKF.'S COWKKUV HOOK. PUDDINGS. 



the eggs, mix with the sugar and butter on the fire till it be- 
comes thick, but not boiling, whip the whites of the eggs to a 
froth, and mix with the other when cold. Put any sort of jam 
on the bottom of the ditih, according to taste, and pour the 
mixture of eggs, etc., over it, and bake half an hour. 

701. APPLE PTTDDI1T& (Boiled).— Ingredients— Suet or butterr 

crust, apples, sugar to tutitc, a little miuced Icinou peel, 'J 
tablespooiifuls lemon juice. 

Butter a pudding mould, line with the paste, pare, core and 
cut the apples into small pieces. Fill the basin and add the 
sugar, finely minced lemon peel and juice. Cover with the 
crust, press the edges firmly, cover with a floured cloth. Tie 
securely and plunge into boiling water. AUc v to boil two 
hours. Remove from basin and send to table quickly. 

702. APPLE DTTMPLINa (Boiled). — Ingredients - Apples, 

quince or orange marmalade, or sugar, some cold paste. 

Peel the apples, remove the core with an apple scraper, and 
fill the hole with the marmalade or sugar : then take a small 
piece of the cold paste and place the apple in it, then take an- 
other piece of the same shape and place on the top, join the 
paste as neatly as possible. Ti€ in a cloth and boil three 
quarters of an hour. Pour melted butter over them and serve. 

703. OimilAlTTDTJliIPLINa.— Ingredients— One lb, of flour, 5 

oz. of beef suet, 7 oz. of currants, 1 glass of water. 

Mince the suet finely, mix with the flour and currants, which 
of course have been washed, picked and dried : mix with the 
above proportion of water or milk, divide into dumplings about 
the size of an orange : tie in cloths, plunge into boiling water, 
and boil from an hour to an hour and a quarter. Serve with 
butter and white sugar. 

704. NORPOLK DXJMPLIITGS.— Ingredients— One lb. of dough, 

wine sauce. 

Divide one pound of dough into six equal parts ; mould these 
into dumplings, drop them into a pan of fast-boiling water, and 
boil quickly for about a quarter of an hour. Send to table with 
wine sauce, or melted butter well sweetened. 

[Note — These dumplings should never be cut, but torn apart 
with two forks.] 

705. LBMOIT DTJMPLllT&S— Ten oz. of fine bread-crumbs, I 

large tablespoonful of flour, ^ lb. finely chopped beef suet, 
the grated rinds of 2 smiU lemons, 4 oz. of powdered sugar, 3 
larQ^e eiigs beaten and strained, and last of all the juice of th« 
2 lemons, also strained. 
Mix the ingredients well, divide into four dumplings, tie them 
in well-floured cloths, and let them boil ar. hour. 



Puddings. mks. clarkk's cooki:ky hook. 201 



706. APPLE PITDDIITCJ (baked)— Ingredionta.— 10 apples, 4 

oz. of blown sugar, '.i oz. of butter, 4 eggs, 2^ breakfast cups 
of bread-crumbs. 

Pare and cut into quarters the apples, removing the cores. 
IJoil them to a pulp. Weil whisk the eggs and put them and 
the butter into the apple pulp. Stir the mixture for five min- 
utes, (jrease a pie dish and place a sprinkling of bread- 
crumbs, then of apple, and proceed in this manner until all are 
used. Bake for three quarters of an hour. N. B. — Care must 
be taken that the top layer is of bread-crumbs. 

707. BAZE^SLL PUDDING- — Ingredients— PnfT-paste, jam, 

few strips of candied lemon-peel, yolks of four eggs, whites 
of two, ^ 11). of clarified butter, i lb. of pounded sugar, 2 oz. 
of almonds. 

Line a shallow dish with the puff paste, spread over it any 
kind of jam and the candied lemon-peel. Fill the dish with 
the rest of the ingredients, beating the yolks of the eggs, and 
blanching and pounding the almonds. Mix well and pour over 
the jam. Bake in a moderate oven. 

708. BATTER PTTDpilT&.— Ingredients— IJ cupful of flour, 1 

teaspoouful baking powder, ^ teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon 
butter, 2 eggs, 1 pint of milk. 

Steam one hour, and serve with sauce. By adding a cupful 
of raisins, or any other desirable fruit, either fresh or dried, to 
the above pudding, makes a most delicious dish. 

709. SEEAD PUDD11T&— Ingredients — Bread, boiling milk, 

allowing ^ a pint to 1 lb. of soaked bread, 2 beaten eggs, a 
little nutmeg, sugar. 
Soak the bread in cold water, then squeeze it very dry, take 
out any lumps, and add the milk, beat up the eggs, sweeten to 
taste, add nutmeg, and bake the pudding slowly until firm. If 
desired, a few sultanas may be added to the pudding ; or, if the 
bread is light, such as the crusts of French rolls, it may be 
soaked in as much cold milk as it will absorb, and when it is 
perfeatly soft have sugar, eggs, and flavoring added to it. 

710. BROWIT BUEAD PTTDDIITG.— Ingredients — i lb. stale 

brown bread finely and lightly grated, the same of suet 
chopped fine, the same of sultanas ; J of a saltspoon of salt, 
IJoz. of sugar, J of a nutmeg (grated), the grated rind of 1 
lemon, 2 well-beaten eggs, ^ a glass of brandy or I glass of 
sherry. 

Mix all the ingredients thoroughly, and boil in the mould for 
three hours. A warm jam sauce should be poured over the 
pudding, or round it, when sent to table. 



ioa MRS. Clarke's cookery rook. PunnrNos. 



711. OAHAMBL PTJDDINa.-InpredlentB -A handful of whiUj 

sugar, ^ pint of water, yolka of 8 eggs, 1 pint of milk. 

I5oil the sugar and water i:ntil of a deep brown color, warm 
a small basin, pour the sj-riip in and keep turning the basin in 
your ,' ' ^d until the inside is completely coated with the syrup, 
which, by that time, will have set. Take the yolks of the eggs 
and mix gradua'ly and effectually with the milk. Pour this 
mixture into the prepared mould. Lay a piece of paper on 
the top. Set it in a saucepan full of cold water, taking care 
that the water does not come over the top of the mould, put on 
the cover, and let it boll gently by the side of the fire for one 
hour. Remove the saucepan to a cool place, and when the 
water is quite cold take out the mould, and turn out the pud- 
ding very carefully. 

712. OARROT PTTDDIITG — Intjredients— Jib. of grated potatoes. 

^11). Liatod carrots, All), flour, sugar, suet, plums and cur- 
rants, spices aud candied lemon peel. 

Mix well together and boil for eight or nine hours. Serve 
with brandy or wine sauce. 

713. CARROT PT7DD3:iT& (il).— Ingredients — 10 oz. of bread- 

crumbs, 6 oz. of suet, a oz. of raisins, 12 oz. of carrots, 4 oz- 
of currants, 4 oz. of sugar, 4 eggs, a little nutmeg, milk. 

Boil the carrots until tender. Mash them. Stone the 
raisins and well whisk the eggs. Mix all the ingredients to- 
gether with enough milk to make a thick batter. This pudding 
can either be boiicd or baked. If for baking, put in a pie dish 
and bake for an hour. If for boiling, put into a buttered mould, 
secure with a cloth and boil for three hours. Serve with white 
sugar sifted over. 

714. IdARTHA'S PXTDDING.— Ingredients — i pint of milk, 

laurel leaf, a piece of cinnamon, 1 cupful of bread-cruml)8, 3 
eggs, nutmeg and lemon-peel, teaspooaful orange flower 
water. 

Put the laurel leaf and cinnamon into the milk and boil, 
then pour over the bread-crumbs, add the eggs well beaten, 
the nutmeg, lemon-peel and flower water. Sweeten to taste, 
butter a basin, stick currants or split raisins in rows upon it. 
Stir all the ingredients well together and pour into the basin. 
Cover with a cloth and boil one hour and a half. 

715. PEAS PUDDIITG. — Ingredients — 1 quart of split peas, a 

piece of butter, the yolk of an egg. 

Dry the peas before the fiire, then tie up loosely in a cloth ; 
plunge into warm water, boil them two hours or more, until 



rUDDINGS. MRS. CI.ARKE'S COOREKY BOOK. 203 

tender, take them up, beat in a dish with a pinch of salt, yolk 
of an ej,'g and butter, make it quite smooth, tie it up again in a 
cloth, and boil one hour longer. 

716. OSOOOLATB PUDDING-.— Ingredients— l quart of milk, 
14 even tablesponnfuls of grated bread -uru in ha, 12 table- 
spoonfuls of grated chocolate, 6 eggs, 1 tablespoonful vanilla; 
sugar to make very sweet. 

Separate the yolks and whites of four eggs ; beat up the four 
yolks and two whole eggs toj;ether very light with the Kugar. 
Put the milk on the range, and when it comes to a perfect boil 
pour it over the bread and chocolate ; add the beaten eggs and 
sugar and vanilla ; be sure it is sweet enough ; pour into a but- 
ter«d dish ; bake one hour in a moderate oven. When cold, 
and just before it is served, have the four whites beaten with a 
little powdered sugar, and flavor with vanilla and use as a 
meringue. 

7W. OTTIIRAITT PUDDING (TdoUoI).— Ingredients — 14 oz. of 
flour, 7 oz. of suet, 7 oz. of currants, a little milk. 

Have the currants washed and dried, mixed with the fine- 
ly minced suet and flour. Moisten the whole with sufficient 
milk to form a stiff batter. Place in a floured cloth and plunge 
into boiling water. Boil four hours and serve with buttet and 
sugar. 

718. OTXRHibNT BUN PUDDING-.— Ingredients -4 huus, jam, 

white of 1 egg, 2 oz. of sugar. 

Line a pie dish with the buns previously soaked in milk, put 
between them a layer of jam and bake half an hour. Whip 
the white of the egg up with the sugar, and place on the top 
when done. These last two receipts are nursery puddings. 

719. GINOBRBREAD PUDDING.-- Ingredients-2oz. lard or 

butter, 2 tablespoonfu'.s l)ioun sugar, 2 ditto golden syrup, 
1 egg, 1 teacupful milk, 1 teaspoonful ground ginger, 8 oz. 
flour, one teaspoonful baking powder. 

Work the butter and sugar together, then add the eg^^ beaten 
well, the ginger, treacle and milk, and then the flour ana bak- 
ing powder. Steam four hours. 

720. GINGER PUDDING.— Ingredients-Ooz. of flour, 5 oz of 

suet 5 oz. of sugar, 1 large tablespoonful of grated ginger. 

Chop the suet finely. Add to the flour sugar and ginger ; 
mix well. Butter a mould and put the ingredients in perfectlv 
dry. Cover secur/ly with a cloth and boil three hours. To 
be eaten wfth sweet sauce 



204 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Puddings. 



721. OIlAlTGBPUDDIlTG(l).—IngredientB— Puff paste, ilb. ©f 

butter, 9 eggs, 1 Seville orange, ^ lb. of white sugar, a tea- 
spoonful of orange flower water, 2 teaspoonful of rose water, 
^ pint of cream, ^ glass of sherry, 1 hard biscuit. 

Make some pufF paste and lay it thin in a dish and round 
the rim ready to receive the pudding. Melt the butter, break 
the eggs and add them (the yolks of all, the whites of five) 
well beaten, to the melted butter. Shake well together, then 
grate the yellow part of the rind of the orange, add the sugar 
finely sifted ; mix all well together, add the orange-flower water 
and rose water, cream, and sherry ; grate into the mixture a 
hard biscuit ; mix all the ingredients thoroughly, pour into the 
dish lined with paste, and bake very carefully as long as you 
would a custard pudding, 

722. ORANGE PUDDINC (2).— Ingredients— The rind of 1 

Seville orange, 6 oz. of fresh butter, 6 oz. of white sugar, 
6 eggs, 1 apple, putt" paste. 

Grate the rind and mix with the butter and sugar, adding 
by degrees the eggs well beaten ; scrape a raw apple and mix 
with the rest ; line the bottom and sides of a dish with paste, 
pour in the orange mixture, and lay it over crossbars of paste. 
It will take half an hour to bake. 

723. ORANGE PUDDING (3). — Ingredients — Two Seville 

oranges, 1 sweet orange, 6 eggs, ^ lb. of white sugar, ^ lb. 
of butter, puff paste. 

Boil the oranges, changing the water four times to remove 
all bitterness. When they are quite tender take them out, cut 
them in halves, and remove the seeds and inward skins and 
stringy portions. lieat the rinds and juice in a stone mortar, 
squeeze in the juice of a sweet orange through a sieve, beat up 
the yolks of six eggs and whites of three, and half a pound of 
white sifted sugar. Mix all well together, and stir in the melt- 
ed butter. Bake in a dish lined and ornamented with puff 
paste in not too quick an oven. 

724. SHROPSHIRE PTTDDING.— Ingredients— Half lb. of suet, 

^ lb. of bread-crumbs, 1 lemon, juice and rind, 1 nutmeg, ^ 
lb. of sugar, 5 eggs. 

Boil three hours, and serve with brandy sauce. 

725. IiEMON PTTDDING (I)-— Ingredients— Two eggs, two cup- 

fuls of sugar, 4 tablespoontuls of ceru starch, 2 lemons, 
butter. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs light, add the sugar ; dissolve the 
corn starch in a little cold water, stir into it two teacupfuls of 
boiling water ; put in the juice of the lemons, with some of 



Puddings. Mrs. Clarke's cookery book. 205 



tl'c grated peel. Mix all togetlier with a teaspoonfiil of butter. 
Bake about fifteen minutes. When done spread over the top 
the beaten whites of the eggs and brown. 

726 LEAIOIT PUDDINQ- (2).— Ingredients— Three quarters of 
lb. of bread-crumbs, 1 quart of milk, 3 oz. of butter, 1 lemon, 
4 oz. of white sugar, 4 eggB, 1 tablespoonful of brandy, paste. 

Place the milk in a stewpan and bring to a boH ; add the 
butter and when melted pour over the bread-crumbs. Mince 
the lemon peel and with the sugar add to the other ingredients. 
Well whisk the eggs, adding the brandy ; beat the whole for a 
few minutes. Line a pie dish with paste and pour the mixture 
in. Bake for nearly an hour. 

727. PAVORITE PUDDIITG. —Ingredients— Three eggs, flavor- 

ing, grated rind and juice of a lemon, ^ teaspoonful of 
grated nutmeg, 1 cup of grated bread-crumbs, 1 cup of finely 
chopped apples, 1 cup of English currants and 1^^ cups of 
sugar. 

Beat the eggs very lightly, flavor ; to this add the bread- 
crumbs and remaining ingredients. Stir thoroughly ; then put 
in a buttered pudding dish and boil at least two and a half 
hours. Serve with any good sauce. 

728. MARMALADE PUDDINa (I).— Ingredienta— Two oz. of 

lard or butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of brown sugar, 4 oz. of 
marmalade, 1 egg, 1 teacup of milk, 8 oz. of flour, 1 tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. 

Well mix the butter and sugar, then add the eggs well beaten, 
the marmalade and miik, then the flour and baking powder. 
Steaoi four hours. 

729. MARMALADE PTJDD1N& (2).— Ingredients-Quarter lb. 

of suet, i lb. of grated bread-crumlja, J lb. of sugar, 2 
eggs, a full tablepoonful of marmalade. 

Well mix the suet and bread-crumbs, then add the sugar, 
the eggs well beaten, and the marmalade. Shred some I'.mon 
peel, and squeeze the juice over four or five large lumps of 
sugar ; add a glass of white wine, and a quarter of a pint of 
water. Let this mixture simmer for twenty minutes. Put in 
a buttered china mould and boil for four hours. 

730. SAUOE (for Marmalade Pudding).— ingredients— Some 

lemon peel and juice, 4 or 5 large lumps of sugar, a glass of 
white wine, ^ pint of water. 



2o6 MRS. CLARKk's CGOKERV BOOK. PuDDINGS. 

731. TEA'JASEPTTDDllTG.— Ingredients -A teacake, butter, 

cuatard, milk, '2 eggs, sugar to taste. 

Cut the teacake into thin slices, butter and line a pie-divsh 
with them ; make the custard, pour in and bake forty minutes. 

732. 00MFA1T7 PUDDIITG. — Ingredients — Driedcherries or sul- 

tanas, some aiuuU sponge cakes, sherry or marsula and a tea 
spoonful of brandy, cold custard, vanilla flavoring. 

Butter a mould thickly ; stick it all over with the dried 
cherries or sultanas ; fill the mould with the sponge cakes 
three parts full ; soak them through with the sherry or marsala 
and the brandy; fill up the mould with cold custard flavored 
with vanilla ; butter a paper to cover over the top. Tie up 
tightly with a floured cloth and boil one hour ; turn out 
carefully and serve with cold custard poured over. 

733. HOLIDAY PUDDING- — Ingredients — A plain sponge cake, 

strawberry jam, icing, a rich custard, some preserved ginger. 

Make the sponge cake in a round mould, take out the in- 
side of the cake with a cutter not too near the edge, put in a 
good layer of strawberry jam, not too thickly spread. Cut 
the inside of the cake you have taken out in slices, spread 
some jam between each slice (different sorts of j;*m may be 
used bjt strawberry does very nicely), and replace the cake. 
Ice it nicely over ; put it into a very slow oven to try the icing. 
Then make the custard and pour into it small pieces of pre- 
served ginger. Pour into the cake and serve hot. 

734. SPONGE GAZE PUDDING.— Ingredients— Six_ or eight 

sponge cakea, "2 oz. of ratalias, a few sultanas, a wineglassful 
of sherry or cognac, or curacoa, some sweet almonds. 

Take the sponge cakes and ratafias, break them into small 
pieces, split and stick the sultanas on the inside of a mould, 
and put the cake into it ; pour over them a wineglassful of 
sherry or cognac, or curacoa. Blanch and pound the almonds; 
sprinkle them ov^r the cakes. Fill up the mould with coU 
custard, steam the pudding for one hour ; turn it out of the 
mould. Serve with some of the custard over it. 

735. CABINET PUDDING-— Ingredients— li pts. of new milk, 

white augar, 1 lemon, cinnamon, mace, cloves, 5 eggs and 
the yolka of 4, butter, 4 or o sponge cakes. 

Boil the mi k with enough white sugar to sweeten it, the peel 
of a fresh lemon cut thinly, the cinnamon, mace and cloves. 
Boil these ingredients as for a custard. Beat up the eggs. Pour 
the boiling milk, etc., on to these, stirring continually, then 
Btrain the whole through a hair sieve and leave to cool. Take 



t'L;nDlNC!f!. ^fRS. CI.AkKKS COOKF.RV nooK. 20/ 



a good sized pudding mould, butter it well and line with sponge 
cakes, cut into thin slices. Pour the custard into the mould and 
tie it close. It will take an hour and a half to boil. It is an im- 
provement after buttering the mould and before placing the 
sponge cakes, to arrange some stoned raisins, slices of candied 
peel and nutmeg. Serve hot with sauce. 

736. OOLLEQ'E PTTDDI1T&. — Ingredients— Eight oz. bread- 

crumbs, 8 oz. suet, 8 oz. currants, I oz. citron peel, 1 oz. 
orange peel, a little sugar and nutmeg, 3 eggs, beaten yolks 
and whites Fcparately, and a glass of brandy. 
Mix well and shape them into bails, rub them over with egg, 
and roll them in flour. Fry a nice brown in boiling butter or 
lard, and drain them on blotting paper. Or they may be put in- 
to small moulds and baked in the oven. In either case serve 
with wine or brandy sauce. 

737. STEAMED PUDDIITQ-. — Tngredienta— 1 cup of suet. 

chopi)ed fine, I cup of molasses, 1 cup of currants — washed 
and dried — 1 cup of sour milk, 1 teaspoonful of soda, a little 
salt, flour. 
Mix well, using flour enough to make a stiff dough ; pour 
into a mould and steam four hours. 

738. OXFORD DTTMPLIITQ-S.— Ingredients— 2 oz. grated bread, 

4 oz. currants, 4 oz, suet chopped fine, 1 largo spoonful of 

flour, 1 oz. pounded sugar, 3 eggs, grated lemon peel and a 

little spice. 

Mix with the yolks of the eggs well beaten and a little milk. 

Divide into five dumplings half an inch thick, and fry a nice 

brown in plenty of lard. Serve with wine sauce and sifted sugar 

on them. 

739. MARROW PUDDING.— Ingredients— li pints of boiling 

milk, 1^ pt. of bread-crumbs, 4 eggs, 6 oz. ofshreded marrow, 
2 oz. of raisins and dried ourrants, grated nutmeg, and sugar 
to taste. 
Pour the milk on the bread-crumbs, cover up and allow to 
soak thoraughly, then beat the eggs with the marrow and add 
to the bread-crumbs with the raisins and currants, grated nut- 
meg and sugar. Put into a buttered mould, boil two and a 
half hours, turn it out and serve with pounded sugar. 

740. MARRO'W PTJDDI1T&.— Ingredients— 2 teacupfuls of flour, 

I of suet chopped very fine, 1 egg beaten in a cup and the cup 
filled up with treacle, 1 teaspo(mf ul of carbonate of soda, ^ 
teaspoonful of tartaric acid and a little flavoring. 
Mix well together ; put into a basin, but do not nil the basin, 

or tie it down, as the pudding will rise. Steam for two or three 

hours. Serve with wine sauce. 



2o8 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Puddincs. 



741. PRTJIT PTJDDHT&.-I'igredienta— Crust — 4 oz. of suet to fj 

of flour ; pinch of salt, unci water enough to make a thick 
paste, fruit, sugar. 

Maka the crust of the suet, flour, salt and water ; roll it out 
thin before putting into a buttered basin, then add the fruit 
mixed with the sugar except in the casje of apples, which are 
sometimes hardened by boiling with sugar ; put on a lid of 
paste, and boil the pudding an hour and a half. Care should 
be taken to roll the crust thin, in order to get as much fruit as 
possible into the pudding. It is a good plan to stew a little fruit, 
and serve it with the pudding, as it should be given to child- 
ren in large proportion to the crust. 

742. LAYER PTTDDINQ--— Crust as for fruit pudding, jam ov 

treacle. 

Make a crust as for fruit pudding. Roll it out and line a but- 
tered basin with it, lay at the bottom a layer of jam or treacle, 
t'len a thin layer of crust, and so on until the basin is full. Boil 
an hour and a half. 

743. MINCEMEAT (XTithOUt moat).— Ingicdients for four dif- 

ferent receipts — 3 lb. raisins, 3 lb. currants, 3 Ih. almonds, 
well chopped, 3 lb. apples, 2 oz. mixed spices, 1 oz. candied 
peel, juice of one lemon, peel ©f three lemons, half a wine 
glass of brandy, sugar to taste. 

li lb. suet, 1 i lb. raisins, 1 J lb. currants, 1 ^ lb. sugar, 

2 lb. apples, chopped fine, of mace, cinnamon, and salt } oz. 
pounded together, four cloves, the grated rind of two lemons 
and the juice of one, 1 oz. of sweet almonds, pounded, ^ lb. 
of candied peel, and a wineglassful eacli of port, white Mine, 
and brandy. 

Two lb. raisins, stoned, 21b. currants, 211) beof suet, 31b. raw 
sugar, i lb. candied citron, J lb. candied lemon, ^ lb. candied 
orange, the juice and rind of four lemons, 2 lb. apples, and a 
teacupf ul of brandy. 

Currants and raisins 21b. each, brown sugar l^lb., suetl^lb., 
salt i oz., cloves, mace, cinnamon, less than ;toz. each, apples 
4, lemon 1, orange and lemon peel J lb. each, all chopped up 
together, when add rather more than half a bottle of the best 
brandy. When well soaked, put in a jar for use. 

744. MINCEMEAT (Vith meat)- — ingredients— l h lb. lean beef, 

3 lb. beef suet, 2 lb. raisins, 2 lb. currants, 2 lb. sugar, 2 lb., 
mixed peel, 1 nutmeg, the rind of two lemons, the juice of 1, 
2 lb. of apples. 

Stone the raisins and cut in halves, add the sugar, have the 
CU' rants washed, dried and ready for use. Slice the peel, grate 



Puddings. mrs. Clarke's cookery book. 209 

the nutmeg, mince the apples, beef suet, and lemon peel, 
strain the juice, and lastly add the brandy, Mix well and cover 
air tight Will be ready for use in three weeks. 

745. PLTJM PUDDIITQ-.— Ingredients— 21b. beef suet, IJ lb, 

bread-crumbs, 1^ lb. of flour, 2 lb. raisins, 2 lb. currants, ^ lb. 
mixed peel, Ij^lb. foots sugar, 14 eggs, a little nutmeg, ginger, 
allspice (powdered), a large pinch of salt, ^ pint of milk. 

Chop the suet as finely as possible, and any stale piece of 
bread can be used for grating, allowing the above quantity ; 
mix with the suet r<nd flour. Stone the raisins, and have the 
currants perfectly washed and dried, the peel cut into thin 
slices and added to the suet, bread and flour, mixing well for 
some minutes, then add the sugar and continue working with 
the hands for five minutes. Put the eggs into a bowl (breaking 
each into a cup first to ascertain that it is fresu and to remove 
the speck), add to them grated nutmeg, powdered ginger, and 
powdered allspice, according to taste, and a large pinch of salt; 
then stir in half a pint of milk ; beat all up together, and pour 
it gradually into the other bowl, working the whole mixture 
v.ith the hand for some time. If the mixture be too stiff add 
more milk, and continue to work it with a wooden spoon lor at 
least half an hour. Scald two pudding cloths, spread each in a 
bowl and dredge them well with flour. Divide the composition 
in two equal parts, put each in its cloth and tie it up tightly. 
To boil the puddings place two inverted plates m saucepans 
filled with water, and when the water boils fast put each pud- 
ding into its saucepan. Let them boil six hours, keeping the 
saucepans full by adding more water aw it is required, and 
taking care that it never ceases boiling. Then take the pud- 
dings out, and hang them up till the next day, when the cloth 
of each pudding should be tightened and ned afresh, and three 
hours' boiling as in the first instance will make them ready for 
table. Serve with a sprig of holly stuck on the top, and plenty 
of brandy poured round thepoddinj-, and set alight outside the 
dining room door. 

746. AaaXOBLLENT PLXTM fCTLDXilCr. -Ingredients-One 

lb of bread-crumbs, 1 lb. of auet, li lb. raisins, | lb. of cur- 
rants, 10 oz, of mixed candied peel, 9 eggs, ^ a gill of brandy. 

Wash the currants carefully, pick and dry them ; then stone 
the raisins and halve them carefully with a knife ; chop the 
suet until very fine ; slice the candied peel thinly, and when 
grating the bread-crumbs be sure they are nice and fine. Mix 
all well together, wetting with the well beaten eggs and the 
brandy mixed in. Give the mixture a good stirring and empty 
N 



2IO MRS. Clarke's cookerv book. Puddings. 

into a mould previously well buttered. Press it down firmly. 
Cover with a floured pudding cloth and tie tightly. Boil for 
from five and a half to six hours. When done hang the pud- 
ding up until it is required. If the pudding is to be eaten hot 
boil two hours on Christmas day> or jn the day it is wanted, 
and serve with brandy sauce. 

747. A TEETOTALLER'S OHillSTMAS PUI/I>IlTa. -Ingre 

dients — Pick and stone two pounds of good Valentias ; pick, 
wash and dry 1 lb. of currants ; chop 2 lb. ot beef Buet ; have 
ready i a lb. of brown sugar, 6 oz of candied peel, out thin, 
2J lb. of flour, 6 e^jgs, a quart or more of iniik. an ounco of 
mixed spice, and a tablcspoonfui of salt. 

Put the flour into a large pan, add the piunis, currants, suet, 
sugar, peel, spice, and salt, and mix theni well together wAi'/e 
dry. Beat the eggs well up m a large basin, and add a portion 
of the milk, stirring it at the same tim^;. Make a well in the 
middle of the ttoui, and wour in the milk and eggs. Keep stir- 
ring till ail the mgredients are thoroughly mixed. Add more 
milk, if necessary, and stii up again ; the batter should be 
rather stiff. Have a good otout cloth ready ; wet and flour it 
well, lay it over a pan, pour in the batter, and tie it firmly up. 
When the water ir the copper or large kettle boils^ put the pud- 
ding in ^nd lei it boil gentlv for five or six hours. Turn it care- 
fully out of the cloth. Serve with or without sauce. 

748. SWISS PI73DDINQ-.— Ingredients— 7 eggs, ^ oz. of isinglass, 

1 pint of milk su^av to taxte, for the sauce J of a pt. of white 
wine, \ lb of Hui^ar, the juice and rind of a leuiou (the rind 
pared very thin). 

Take tne < oiks, eggs, and isinglass, beat them well, add a 
pint ot good milk, and sugar to taste. Put this in a mould, 
and boil the pudding three-quaTters ot an hour exactly. Let it 
stand in the mould till cold. The sauce tor this pudding is 
made with the above ingredients. Boil this till it becomes like 
a syrup. When cold, pour it roundlthe pudding, but ni.t till it is 
ready to be sent to table, then put a few strips of orange mar-' 
malade or apricot jam on the top and round the pudding. 

749. lOE PUDDINO. — Ingredients— Half lb. white sugar, a etick 

of vanilla, IC eggs, 1 gill of cream, 12 lbs. of ice, 6 lbs. gf 
fine salt, dried fruits. 

Put the milk into a stewpari with white sugar and a stick of 
vanilla ; leave it to boii ten minutes. Mix the yolks often 
eggs with the cream, pour in the milk, then put it back into the 
stewpan, and stir until it thickens, but do not let it boil ; strain 
it into a basin, and leave it to cool. Take ^be ice, pound it 



Puddings. mrs. clarkes cookery book. an 

small, add the salt ; mix together quickly, cover the bottom of 
an ice pail (a common pail will do), place the ice pot in it, and 
build it around with the ice and salt. This done, pour the cream 
into the pot, put on the cover, and never cease turning until 
the cream becomes thick ; move it from the sides occasionally 
with the ice scoop, to prevent it getting into hard lumps. The 
mould to be used to set the pudding should be put on ice to 
get quite coid. It is then filled with the cream to the level, 
and three or four pieces of white paper wetted with cold water 
are placed on it before you put on the covi r, which should fit 
very tight. The mould is then buried in the same mixture of 
ice and salt used for freezing the cream in the tirst instance, and 
is left until wanted, vthen it is dipped in cold water, turned out 
on a napkin, and served. Dried fruits, cut small, may be put 
in the cream when the mould is being filled. 

750. ROLY POLY JAM rUDDIiTG. -Ingredients-Suet crust, 

10 oz. of any kind of jam. 

Having made a nice suet crust, roll to the thickness of about 
half an inch. Place the jam in the centre and spread equally 
over the paste, allowmg a margin of about half an inch for the 
pudding to join. Koll up lightly, join the ends securely, place 
upon a floured cloth, and secure with tape, allowing a little 
room for the pudding lo swell. Plunge into boiling water and 
boil two hours. 

751. IlED 0U1UIAI(2 P'JDDIlTCf. -Ingredients— Some red cur- 

rauts aud raspbeiried, tiugar, slices of bread. 

Stew the rea currants and raspberries with sugar till thor- 
oughly done, pour off all the juice, and put the fruit while hot 
into a pudding basin lined with bread made lo fit exactly ; fill 
the basin up with fruit, and cover it with a slice oi bread made 
to fit exactly ; let it stand till quite cold willi a plate on it. Boil 
up the juice which was poured off with a little more sugar, 
and let that get cold. When served the pudding must be 
turned out on a dish and the juice poured all over it so as to 
color the bread thoroughly. It can be served with custard or 
cream. 

752. RASPBERHY PUDDllTG--— One pint of bread-crumbs, 1 

quart of ruil'i, 2 eupfuls of sugar, I lemon, butter, a cupful 
of preserved raspberries, 4 eggs. 

Mix the bread-crumbs, milk, 2 cupfuls of sugar, the peel of 
the lemon grated, the yolks of the eggs, and a small piece of 
butter, and bake. V/hen done sptcud over the top a cupful of 
preserved rasjjberries ; put over that a meringue made with 
the whites of the eggs, a cupful of su^ar and the juice of th(j 



212 MRS. CI ARKE'S COOKERY BOOK. PUDDlNGS. 

lemon. Return it to the ov«n to c<''or ; let it partly cool and 
serve it with rich cream. 

753. SWUBT POTATO PUDDING. ~Ingredient«-Two cups of 
mashed aweet potato (the potato must first be boiled), a cup 
of sugar, a small cup of butter, 8 eggs, ^ teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in a little hot water, a tea«poonful of lemon ex. 
tract, and half teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. 

Beat the eggs until they are very light, rub the butter and 
sujfar to a cream, and mix all with the potato ; cover a deep 
plate or shallow pudding dish with a thick crust ; then put in 
ihe mixture, and bake slowly for three-quarters of an hour. 

764. A GOOD BASED PXTDDIlTa.— Ingredients— One pint of 
new milk, 3 spoonfuls of flour, J lb. of butter, 5 eggs, salt to 
taste, rind of lemon, brandy and sugar. 

Make the milk and flour into a hasty pudding, mix with the 
butter ; when cold add the eggs well bKaten, and the remain- 
ing ingredients. Bake three-quarters of an hour. 

I'oo. RICE AND RjHSHT p-OrDDlira.— Ingredients— Five eggs, 
1 cup of rice, 1 cup of sugar, butter the size of an egg, 2 
haudf uls of raisina. 

Simmer the tice in a quart of milk until tender ; remove 
from the stove to cool. Well whisk the yolks of the eggs and 
add to the rice, also the rest or the milk, sugar, and butter. 
Then well beat the whites of the eggs, stone the raisins, and 
add to the other ingredients. Grate nutmeg oe the top and 
bake one hour. 

756. SIR'WATSIN WTITIT'3 p-aDDHTtt. -Ingredients -Four 

oz. ground rice, ^ lb. suet, ^ lb. bread-crumbs, 4 yolks and 2 
vliites of eggs, 4 tablespoon f uls of orange marmalade. 

Mix well together the day before using. Put it in a well-but- 
tered mould that will just hold a quart, taking care to beat it 
up well just before you mould it, and do not press it tightly. 
Let it boil four hours. Serve with or without wine sauce. 

757. NEWCASTLE PUDDI17&.— Ingredients^Four oz. butter, 

6 oz. rice flour, 6 oz. white sugar, 4 eggs, a pinch of carbon- 
ate of soda, 10 drops of essence of lemon. 

Beat the rice flour, sugar, eggs and soda in a basin until very 
light and white ; then beat the butter to a cream, and put it 
into the pudding with ten drops of essence of lemon. Beat all 
together for five minutes. Butter a mould, pour the pudding 
into it, aud boil for two howrs, Serv^ w-jtt^ or without win<j 
sauce, 



Puddings. mrs. clarke's cookery book. 21;^ 



758. PLAZIT ZUOS PT7DDI1T&.— Ingredients— One quarter lb. 

best rice, 1 pint of new milk. 

Wash the rice, put it in a pie dish with a pint of new milk, 
and allow it to bake rather quickly for three quarters of an 
hour. If the pudding is required to be moist, half a pint more 
milk must be allowed. A good nourishing rice pudding may 
be made with a quarter of a pound of rice, a pint of milk, half 
a pint of water, and one ounce of finely-shred beef suet. 
Sugar and flavoring may, if desired, be stirred into the pud- 
ding before sending to the table. Children generally like rice 
thus cooked with sugar and lemon juice, which should be 
added when served to them, 

759. BIOS OTJSTARD PUDDIITG.— Ingredients- Quarter lb. 

beat rice, 1^ pints of milk, an egg or two, sugar, flavoring. 

Bake the rice as in the preceding recipe ; when done, add 
to it half a pint of tniik, into which an egg or two, sugar to 
taste, and flavoring have been whisked. Bake very gently for 
three quarters of an hour. 

760. RIOB AlTD APPLE PUDDIITG.-Ingredients— A cupful 

of rice, 6 apples, a little chopped lemon peel, 2 cloves, sugar. 

Boil the rice for ten minutes, drain it through a hair sieve 
until quite dry. Put a cloth into a pudding basin and lay the 
rice round it like a crust. Cut the apples into quarters, and 
lay them in the middle of the rice with a little chopped lemon 
peel, cloves and some sugar. Cover the fruit with rice, tie up 
tight, and boil for an hour. Serve with melted butter, sweet- 
ened and poured over it. 

761. GaOTJND RICE PUDDING.— Ingredients— Two oz. of 

ground rice, 1 pint of cold milk, 6 lumps of sugar, 1 egg. 

Mix the rice in half a pint of cold milk, pour on it half a pint 
of boiling milk, in which the sugar has been dissolved, and 
stir over the fire for ten minutes. Put in the pudding, the egg 
well beaten, and bake in a buttered tart dish for three quarters 
of an hour. 

762. OBSIAM TAPIOCA ;PirDDIlTG.--'Ingredient3 — Three 

tablbspoonfula of tapioca, 4;.e>i;ga, 3 tableapoonfula of sugar, 
3 tabloapoonfuls of prepared cocoanut, 1 quart of milk. 

Soak the tapioca in water over night, put it in the milk and 
boil three quarters of an hour. Beat the yolks of the eggs into 
a cup of sugar, add the cocoanut, stir in and boil ten minutes 
longer ; pour into a pudding dish ; beat the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth, stir in three tablespoonfuls of sugar ; put this 



214 MRS. CLARKE'S COOKERY HOOK, I'UDDINCS. 

over the top and sprinkle with cocoanut and brown five min- 
utes. 

763. TAPIOCA PTJDDIlT&.-IiigredientB— Tontablespoonfulsof 

tapiocn, 1 quart of rich iniik, 2 tableBpuonfuls ot butter, G 
tablespoonf u]s of white 8ugar, 1 lemon. 

Take the tapioca, wash it in warm water, drain aud put the 
tapioca in a pan with the milk. Set the pan over a kettle of 
boiling water and stir till it thickens ; then add the butter, 
sugar and lemon, grated (or flavor to suit the taste with good 
lemon or vanilla extract.) 

764. PREOim TAPIOCA.— Ingredients— Two 0/. of fine tapioca, 

^ pint of milk, 1 wull-beateu egg, sugar and Havering. 

Take the tapioca de la couronne, and boil it in half a pint of 
water until it begins to melt, then add the milk by degrees, 
and boil until the tapioca becomes very thick ; add the egg, 
sugar, and tiavoving to taste, and bake gently for three quar- 
ters ol an hour. This preparation of tapioca is superior to any 
othet, is nourishing, and suitable for delicate children. 

705. VELVET PUDLINQ-.— Ingredients— Five eggs, ij cupfuls 
of sugar, 4 tablcHpooiifuls of corn Btarcli, 3 pirts of milk. 

Dissolve the corn starch in a little cold milk', and add one 
cupful of sugar and the yolks of the eggs beaten. Boil three 
pints of milk and add the other ingredients while boiling ; re- 
move from the fire when it becomes quite; thick ; flavor with 
vanilla and pour into a baking dish ; beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, add half a cup of sugar, turn over the pud- 
ding, and place it in the oven and let brown slightly. 

766. SATJOE (for Velvet Pudding-)— Ingredients— Yolks of 2 

eggs, 1 cupful of sugar, 1 tablespoonf ul of butter, 1 cup of 
milk. 

Well beat the yolks, sugar and butter ; add to the milk 
(boiling), and set on the stove till it comes to boiling heat ; 
flavor with vanilla. 

767. PLOREITTINE PX7EDI1TG.— Ingredients-One quart of 

milk, 3 tablespoon ful 3 of corn starch dissolved in a little cold 
milk, 3 eggs, ^ a teacupful of sugar, flavoring, leuion or 
vanilla, or according to taste, white sugar. 

Put the milk in a saucepan and allow it to boil. Add to the 
corn starch (mixed in the milk) the yolks of the three eggs 
beaten, the sugar and flavoring ; stir in the scalding mUk, 
continue stirring until the mixture is of the consistency of cus- 
tard. Pour into baking tin ; beat the whites of the eggs in a 



PUDDINGb. MRS. CLARKE'S COOKERY BOOK. 2x5 

teacup of pulverized sugar and when the pudding is cooked 
spread on the top ; place in the oven to brown. Can be eaten 
with cream, but is very nice without. 

768. SEliCOLIlTA PTJDDI1TQ-— ingredients— 2 OSB. of semolina, 

1 pint of milk, sugar, ilavoring, I egg. 

Boil the semolina in the milk, sweeten and flavor, and beat 
in the egg ; put the pudding in a buttered tart dish ; bake an 
hour in a slow oven. 

769. SWEET IiIAOAZlOlTI. — Ingredients— Jlb. of best macaroni, 

2 quarts of water, a pinch of salt, 1 teacupful of milk, ^ ^^* 
of white sugar, flavoring. 

Break up the macaroni into small lengths, and boil in the 
water (adding the salt) until perfectly tender ; drain away the 
water, add to the macaroni, in a stevv pan, the milk and sugar, 
and keep shaking over the fire until the milk is absorbed. Add 
any flavoring and serve with or without stewed fruit. 

770. 14A0AI10NI PTJDLIlTG.—rngrcdients— :t lb. of macaroni, 

custard, 2 eggs, i pt. of boiling milk, sugar and flavoring to 
taste. 

Boil the macaroni as for the above dish, when done drain 
away the water, and put the macaroni into a tart dish ; pour 
over it custard, the sugar and flavoring to taste ; bake very 
slowly for an hour. 

771. OXTSTARD PUDDIlTa (TDalsedV-Ingredionts-i pt. of 

milk, a little white sugar, 2 eggs, Ilavoring. 

Boil the milk, with sufficient sugar to taste, and whip 
into it the eggs (the whites and yolks previously well beaten 
together), add flavoring to taste ; put the pudding into a pie 
dish, and place it in another vessel half full of boiling water, 
put into the oven, and bake gently for about half an hour ; or, 
if more convenient, the pie dish may be placed in a stew pan 
half filled with water, by the side of the fire, and allowed to 
cook slowly. 

772. OATMEAL PUDDI1T&.— Ingredients— 2 oz. of fine Scotch 

oatmeal,:]; pt. of cold milk, 1 pt. of boiling milk,sugar to taste, 
2 oz. of bread-crumbs, 1 oz. of shred suet, 1 or 2 beaten eggs, 
lemon flavoring or grated nutmeg. 

Mix with the oatmeal, first the cold milk, and then add the 
boiling milk ; sweeten, and stir over the fire for ten minutes, 
then add the bread-crumbs ; stir until the mixture is stiff, then 
add the suet and eggs ; add flavoring. Put the pudding in a 
buttered dish and bake slowly for an hour. 



ai6 Mks. Clarke's COOKERY BOOK. Puddings. 



773. nTDIAN OORJT FLOTia PUDDIITO.-Ingredlentii- 2 oz. 

of Indian corn flour, ^ pt, of milk, } pt. of boiling milk, 
sweetening and flavoring to taste, 1 ogg. 

This must not be ronfoundecl with corn flour sold in packets, 
which in some cases is the starch of Indian corn or maize, de- 
prived of much of its nutritive value by the process it under- 
goes to render it white and smooth. Indian corn flour is the 
nnely-ground flour of maize, and is largely used in America. 
Dr. Pavy says : " properly prepared, it furnishes a wholesome, 
digestible, and nutritious food." Like oatmeal, it requires to 
be thoroughly well boiled. Vanilla is the most suitable flavor- 
ing for this pudding, but any other may be used. Mix the corn 
flour smooth in the cold milk and then stir in the boiling milk. 
Sweeten and flavor. Put into a clean stew pan and stir over 
the fire until it becomes thick ; beat in the egg, put the pud- 
ding in a buttered tart dish and bake very slowly for three- 
quarters of an hour. 

774. STJITDATPXTDDIITG.— Tngredicnts— i 11). of Vrcad crunil)8, 

i pt. of uiilk, sugar and flavoring to taste, 2 eggs, strawberry 

jam. 
Boil the bread-crumbs in the milk, sweeten and flavor, and 
when the bread is thick stir in the yolks of the eggs. Put the 
pudding into a buttered tart dish, bake slowly for three quarters 
of an hour. Then spread over the top a layer of strawberry 
jam, and on this the whites of the eggs beaten with a teaspoon- 
ful of sifted sugar to a strong froth. Dip a knife in boiling 
water, and with it smooth over the whites, put the pudding 
again into a moderate oven until the top is a light golden 
brown. Serve immediately. 

775. TOESSHIIIB PUDDI1T(J (1).— Ingredients— 1 egg, a pinch 

of salt, milk, 4 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Take the egg and salt and beat with a fork for a few min- 
utes. Add to this three tablespoonfuls of milk and the flour; 
beat (with a spoon) very well, whilst in a batter, for ten min- 
utes. Then add milk till it attains almost the consistency of 
cream. Take care to have the dripping hot in the pudding tin. 
Pour the batter into the tin to the thickness of about a quarter 
of an inch, then bake under the roasting joint. The above 
will make a pudding of moderate size, perhaps one dozen 
squares. The great secret of a pudding being light is to mi.x 
it two hours before cooking it. 

776. YORSSHIRE PTJDDHT& (2).— Ingredients— 6 tablespoon- 

fuls (heaped) of flour, 1^ pints of milk, 3 eggs. 

Put the flour in a basin with a little salt, bur in enough milk 



Pies. mrs. Clarke's cookf.ry nooK. 217 



to make it a stiff batter. When quite smooth put in the eggs, 
well beaten, and the rest of the milk, Heat again, put in shal- 
low tin rubbed with beef drippinjj. Hake for an hour, then put 
under the meat half an hour to catch a little dripping. Cut in 
small squares to serve. The secret of lightness is to have 
smooth batter highly beaten, hot oven, and serving very quick- 
ly — in fact, that intelligent care in small details which gives 
perfect cooking. 

777. 8TEAS PTJDD11TG-— Ingredients— J lb, of suet, 18 oz. of 

flour, a largo teasnooiiful ol baking powder, pepper and salt 
to taste, l^lbs. oi steak, 6 oz. of bullock's kidney. 

Chop the suet finely. Add tho baking powder and salt to 
the flour, and then mix in the suet. Add gradually a glass of 
cold water (about half a pini), mixing all the time ; roll into a 
sheet. Cut the steak into pieces and the kidney into slices, 
sprinkling well with pepper and salt. Grease a pudding mould 
and line it with the paste. Place the meat in and pour in about 
two wine glasses of cold water. The meat must only come 
level with the top. Cover with the paste, tie down in a floured 
cloth, plunge into boiling water and boil for two and a quarter 
hours. 

778. QBAHAM PUDDllTG- — Ingredients— 2 cups of Graham 

flour, 2 eggs, 1 quart of milk, butter the size of an egg, salt 
to taate. 

Put a pint of milk into a buttered stew pan, and allow to 
heat slowly. Mix the rest of the milk in the flour, and beat 
lightly with the butter, eggs and salt. Then pour the hot milk 
upon it, mix well, return to the fire surrounded by boiling yt^XtT^ 
and stir constantly for a quarter of an hour; grate nutmeg upon 
it. Serve in uncovered dish, and eat with butter and sugar. 

779. OOTTAO-E PIE.— Ingredients— Two lbs. of potatoes, scraps 

of cold meat, 1 onion, l.J oz. of butter, pepper and salt to 
taste, i a glass of milk. 

Boil and mash potatoes (or if there are any cold ones at 
hand, they will do as well); put the milk and butter on the 
fire to boil, and when boiling pour upon the mashed potatoes 
and mix to a paste ; place the meat in a pie dish with a little 
fat in layers, mince the onion and sprinkle each layer with it, 
also pepper and salt ; half fill the dish with water or gravy 
and cover with the potatoes, smoothing neatly and marking 
with a fork into a pattern ; bake half an hour. 



> 



2iS MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Pies. 

780. FOBS PIE.— Ingredienta— For paste, Jib. of lard, J oz. of 

butter, 1 lb. of flour. 

Make a paste thus : Melt the lard and butter in hot milk 
(not boiling) ; when it rises to the top of the stewpan skim it 
off, and mix it warm with the flour ; raise the crust, when 
sufficiently kneaded, on a round block of wood about four 
inches in circumference and six inches in height. Take lean 
pork, cut it up in small square pieces, season with pepper and 
salt, fill the pie, put on a lid of paste, and decorate with paste 
ornaments, cut out with tin cutters. 

781. !E<E!L FIE. — Ingredients — Eels, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, 

puflF paste, 1 onion, a few cloves, a little stock, 1 og^y, butter, 
flour, and lemon juice. 

Skin and wash some eels, remove the heads and tails ; cut 
up the fish into pieces about three inches long, season them 
with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Border a pie dish with puff 
paste, put in the eels with a chopped onion, and a few cloves, 
add a little clear stock ; cover with puff paste, brush over the 
crust with the yolk of an egg, and bake ; make a sauce with 
the trimmings of the eels, some white stock seasoned with salt 
and pepper ; thicken it with a liaison of butter and flour, add 
some lemon juice, strain and pour it quite hot through a fun- 
nel into the pie. 

782. EEL FIE (2). — Ingredients — eels, pepper, salt, butter, paste. 
Cut the eels in length of two or three inches, after skinning 

them ; add seasoning and place in the dish with some pieces 
of butter and a little water, and cover with the paste. Middle- 
sized eels are the best for this purpose. 

783. FIG-HOIT FIE' — Ingredieats— Pigeons, popper and salt, a 

piece of butter, a buncih of parsley, a beef steak, 2 hard 
boiled eggs, 1 cup of water, a few pieces of ham, cnist. 

Rub the pigeons with pepper and salt, inside and out ; in 
the former put a piece of butter, and if approved, come par- 
sley chopped with the livers, and a little of the seasoning; lay 
the steak at the bottom of the dish, and the birds on it ; be- 
tween every two a hard egg. Put the water in the dish ; and 
if you have any ham in the house, lay a piece on each pigeon, 
it is a great improvement to the flavor. Observe when the 
ham is cut for gravy or pies, to take the under part rather than 
the prime. Season the gizzards, and the two joints of the 
wings, and put them in the centre of the pie ; and over them 
in a hole made in the crust, three feet nicely cleaned to show 
what pie it is. 



PiRs. MRS. Clarke's cookery book. 2i0 



78^. RAISED BEEP STSAZ FIE- — Ingredients — Rump 

Btuak, butter, pepper and salt, lemon juice, shalots chopped 

finely, oysters, crust, ketchup. 

Remove any skin there may be adhering to the fat of the 

steaks, heat them over the fire with the butter, pepper, salt, 

lemon juice and finely chopped shalots ; when half cooked, 

remove from the fire and place on a dish to cool ; blanch the 

oysters, strain off the liquor, preserving for future use, make a 

crust and place a layer of steaks at the bottom of the dish, and 

then put in some oysters, and continue to do this until all are 

used ; cover with crust, ornament the top with a pretty device 

and put in the oven to bake. When done put into a cullis 

with the oyster liquor mixed with some nice ketchup and 

serve. 

785. VEITISOIT PASTRY.— Ingredients — A neck and breast of 

venison, pepper, salt, best part of a neck of mutton, glass of 
red wine, coarse paste, 1 lb. of butter, pu£f paste. 

Bone the venison and season plentifully with pepper and 
salt ; put into a saucepan with the mutton sliced and laid on 
tbem ; pour in the wine, cover with a coarse paste, bake two 
hours, then remove the venison to a dish, pour over the gravy 
and add the butter ; lay the puff paste round the edge of the 
dish. Roll out the cover, which must be a little thicker than 
that round the edge and lay it on, ornament to fancy. If kept 
in the pot it was cooked in, it will keep eight or ten days, but 
the crust must be kept on to keep air tight. 

786. BARE PIE. — Ingredients — A hare, pepper, salt, nutmeg, 

mace, J lb. of butter, forcemeat, J lb. scraped bacon, 2 
onions, glass of red wiue, bread-crumbs, winter savory, the 
liver of the hare, nutmeg, and yolks of 3 eggs. 

Cut the hare into neat pieces, season with the pepper, salt, 
nutmeg and mace ; put it into a jug with the butter, close up, 
and set in a saucepan of boiling water with the forcemeat ; 
season highly with pepper and salt ; mix well with the yolks of 
the eggs, raise the pie, and lay the forcemeat at the bottom of 
the dish ; then put in the bars with the gravy that came from 
it ; lay on the crust and bake an hour and a half. 

787. RAISED FREUOH PIE.— Ingredients— Pie crust, some 

veal, a few mushrooms, a few slices of ham, a chicken cut 
up, a swoetbread cut into slices, pepper, salt, sweet herbs, 
6 yolks of hard boiled eggs. 

Raise a crust about three inches high, lay in some slices of 
the veal, then a few of the mushrooms, then a few slices of 
ham, then the chicken, a few more mushrooms and the sweet- 



220 MRS. Clarke's cooRiikY 13001^ Piks. 



bread; addsea3oning,cover in and bake for two hours in a slack 
oven ; when done pour off the fat and add the eggs. 

788 MACARONI PIE.— Ingre<Uent»i— Quarter lb. of macaroni, J 
lb. of aausagcs, a email bunch of parsley, water, a gill of 
stock, a pinch of salt, chopped parsley. Pastry,— 8 oz. of 
flour, 6 oz. of lard (or well clarified dripping). 

Stew the macaroni till tender in a pint of water to which add 
the stock and salt ; open the sausages lengthwise and scrape 
out the meat : then put a layer of macaroni in a small pie dish, 
another of sausage meat and a sprinkling of pepper, salt and 
chopped parsley, and so on in alternate layers until all are used. 
Moisten with two tablespoonfuls of water ; cover with the 
pastry and bake half an hour. 

789. C)SI0ZS1T PIE.— Ingredients— 2 young fowls, seasoning: 

— white pepper, salt, a little mace, and nutmeg all of the fin- 
est powder, and cayenne. Some fresh ham cut in slices, or 
gammon of bacon, some forcemeat balls, and hard eggs 
Gravy from knuckle of veal or a piece of scrag, shank bone of 
mutton, herbs, onion, mace, and white pepper. 

Cut up the fowls ; add the seasoning. Put the chicken, slices 
of ham, or gammon of bacon, forcemeat balls and hard eggs by 
turn in layers. If it be baked in a dish put a little water, but 
none if in a raised crust. By the time it returns from the 
oven have ready a gravy made of the veal or scrag,shank bones 
of mutton and seasoning. If to be eaten hot you may add 
truffles, morels, mushrooms, etc., but not if to be eaten cold. If 
it is made in a dish, put as much gravy as will fill it ; but in 
raised crust the gravy must be nicely strained, and then put in 
cold as jelly. To make the jelly clear, you may give it a boil 
with the whites of two eggs, after taking away the meat, and 
then run it through a fine lawn sieve. 

790. QIBZtET PIE— Ingredients— Some goose or duck giblets, 

water, onion, black pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs, a large 
teacupful of cream, sliced potatoes, plain crust, salt. 

Line the edge of a pie dish with a plain crust. Stew the 
giblets in a small quantity of waterwiththe seasoning tillnearly 
done. Let them grow cold and if not enough to fill the dish, 
lay a beef, veal or two or three mutton steaks at the bottom. 
Add the giblets that the liquor was boiled in. Lay slices of cold 
potatoes on the top and cover with the crust ; bake for an hour 
and a half in a brisk oven. 

791. BEEFSTEAZAITD OYSTER PZE.-Ingredients- Steak, 

Beasouiug : pepper, salt, eschalot minced finely. Oysters, 



PiKS. MRS. CLARKK's COOKEFY BOOK. 221 



lemon peel, mace and a sprig of paHiley, 1 oz. of butter rolled 
in flour. 
Prepare your steaks by beating them gently with a circular 
steak-beater.add the seasoning, put layers of them and of oys- 
ters. Stew the liquor and beards of the latter, with the lemon- 
peel, mace, and the sprig of parsley. These ingredients are to 
be boiled in about three spoonfuls of water and butter rolled 
with flour, then strained off, and put into the dish when the 
pie is baked. , 

792. OYSTER PIE- — Ingredients — Oysters, sweetbreads, salt, 

pepper, mace, ^ a teacupful of liquor, some gravy, a teacup- 

ful of cream, white gravy. 
Open the oysters, and strain the liquor from them ; parboil 
them after taking off their beards. Parboil sweetbreads, cut 
them in slices, lay them and the oysters in layers, add season- 
ing, then put the liquor, and the gravy. Bake in a slow oven, 
and before you serve, add the cream, a little more oyster 
liquor, and a cupful of white gravy, all warm, but not boiling. 

793. VEAL PIE- — Ingredients — 3 or 4 lb. of veal, a few slices of 

ham or bacon, powdered mace, cayenne, nutmeg, salt, force- 
meat, 3 eggs. 
Cut the veal into convenient pieces, place in saucepan and 
cover with cold water. Allow to come slowly to a boil then re- 
move from the stove and place in a pie dish ; pour the liquor 
over the meat, add the ham or bacon and seasoning, boil the 
eggs hard and cut into rings, place neatly over the meat, have 
ready veal forcemeat made into balls about the size of marbles. 
Line the edge of the pie dish with any paste preferred and 
cover the whole with the same, make a hole in the centre and 
bake about one to one and a hali" hours. 

794. VEAL, OHIOKEIT 85 PAESLEY PIS— Ingredients- 

Slices of neck or leg of veal, salt, jmrsley, milk, crust, ^ pint 
of cream. 
Take the slices of veal (if from the leg, about the knuckle), 
season them with the salt ; scald some parsley picked from the 
stems, and press it dry ; cut it a little, and lay it at the bottom 
of the dish ; then put the meat, and so on, in layers. Fill the 
dish with milk, but not so high as the crust; cover it with crust, 
and when baked pour out a little of the milk, and put in the 
scalded cream. Chickens may be cut up and cooked in the 
same way. 

796. MTJTTOIT PIE-— Ingredients— Loin of mutton, 2 kidneys 
pepper and salt to tiste, J pint of gravy or water, a little 
minced parsley, a little onion if liked. 
Put the meat into chops, remove the bone and trim therj^ 



222 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Pie.s. 



neatly, allowing a very small piece of fat to each chop. Cut 
the kidneys into small pieces also and mix with the mutton; ar- 
range neatly in pie dish, sprinkle parsley and seasoning, pepper 
and salt over it, then pour in the gravy and cover with puff or 
any paste preferred. Bake one and a half hours. 

790. LEMON FIE- — Ingredients— Crust, 1 lemon, 1i cups of white 
Bugai-, 1 cup of water, a piece of butter the size of an egg, 1 
tablespoouful of flour, 1 egg. 

First make your crust as usual ; cover your pie-tins (I use 
my jelly-cake tins) and bake exactly as for tart crusts. If you 
make more than you need, r ver mind, they will keep. While 
they are baking, if they rise in the centre, taice a fork and open 
the crust to let the air out. Now make the filling as follows : 
For one pie take a nice lemon and grate off the outside, taking 
care to get only the yellow ; the white is bitter. Squeeze out 
all the juice ; add white sugar, water, and butter. Put in a 
basin on the stove. When it boils stir in the flour, and the 
yolk of one egg, beaten smooth with a little water. When 
it boils thick take offtho stove and let it cool. Fill your pie 
crust with this. Beat the white of an egg stiff; add a heapmg 
tablespoonful of sugar ; pour over the top of the pie. Brown 
carefully in the oven. 

797. LEMON PIE (2).— Ingredients— 1 cup of sugar, 1 table 

spoojiful butter, 1 egg, 1 lemon, juice and rind, 1 teacupful 
of boiling water and 1 tablespoonful corn starch. 

Dissolve the corn starch in a little cold water, then stir it 
into the boiling water ; cream the butter and sugar, then pour 
over them the hot mixture ; cool, add the lemon juice, rind and 
beaten egg ; bake with or without upper crust. 

798. LEMON PIE (3).— Ingredients— 3 eggs, 1 large spoonful of 

butter, 1 small cup of sugar, juice and rind of a lemon. 
Beat the butter and sugar until like cream. Beat the yolks 
and whites of the eggs separately, grate the lemon peel and 
strain the juice, add the yolks and lemon to the butter and 
sugar, and mix well. Then bake in two open tins of paste. 
Beat the whites to a stiff meringue, with three tablespoonfuls 
of sugar and a few drops of rose water. When the pies are 
done spread the meringue over and return to the oven for five 
minutes. 

799. PEACH PIE— Ingredients — Puflf or short crust, peaches, 

sugar. 
Line a dish with a nice crust, skin the peaches, remove the 
stones, and put the fruit into the dish, with a little sugar and 
water, Cover with trust uuU bake a golden biown, 



Pies. mrs. Clarke's cookery book. 223 



800. BHnBAllB PIE- — Ingredients — Rhubarb, a little lemon 
peel, sugar, water, sliort crust. 
Take a deep pie dish, wipe with a clean damp cloth the 
stalks, cut into pieces about an inch in length, mince the lemon 
peel line the edge of the dish witli the crust, then fill the dish 
with rhubarb, sugar and lemon, adding a cup of water. Cover 
with crust, making a hole in the middle. Bake about three 
quarters of an hour. 

501. GOOSEBERHY FIE- — Ingredients — Gooseberries, sugar, 

crust. 
Top and tail the berries, lire the edge of a deep dish with 
short crust. Put the berries into it with at least six ounces of 
moist sugar and a little water. Cover with upper crust and 
bake from half to three-quarters of an hour. 

502. DAMSOIT PIE. — Ingredients — Damsons, 4 lb. moist sugar, 

crust. 
Line the edge of a deep dish with crust, place a small cup 
in the middle, fill the dish with the fruit, sprinkling the sugar 
over ; cover with crnst and bake about three-quarters of an 
hour. If puff paste is used, just before it is done remove from 
the oven and brush over with the white of an egg, beaten to a 
froth. Sift a little white sugar over and return to the oven till 
finished. 

8 03. RED CUEEANT AND HASPBEPwRY PIE. -Ingredients 
— 1 quart of currants, ^ jiiiit of ratjpbeuies, 6 oz. of moist 
sugar, crust. 
Pick the currants, and proceed as above. 

804. BLA02 OTJRPwAlTT PIE. —The same manner as Damsou 
Pie, adding a little more waler. 

S05. OOOOANUT P'B. — Ingredu;nts — 1 cup of grated cocoanut,. 
-i pint of milk, 2 crackers, 3 eggs, butter, salt, rind of ^ lem- 
on, sugar if desired, puti" crust. 

Make a nice puff crust, line a dish and bake, when done, 
set aside to cool ; soak the cocoanut in the milk, pound the 
crackers, well whisk the eggs, and grate the rind of the half 
lemon. Mix all together, addmg a little salt, sugar and butter. 
When well mixed place in the pie-dish, and put in the oven to 
slightly brown. 

800. PXJDDXNCJ PIES.— Ingredients— li pints milk, J lb. ground 
rice, J lb. of butter, J lb. of white sugar, 6 oggs, putF paste, a 
few currants, flavoring. 

Put the lemon rind in the milk, and set on the stove to in- 
fuse J when well flavored straiu, add the rice, and allow it lo 



2 24 MRS. clarkk's cookery book. Pies 



come to a boil slowly, and boil ten or fifteen minutes, stirring 
all the time. Remove from the fire and add butter and sugar; 
well whisk the eggs and add also. Line patty-pana with puff 
paste, put about a tablespoonful in each pie. Strew a few cur- 
rants on each pie and bake about twenty minutes. 

807. PTJliIPKIlT PIE-— Ingredients— 1 pint of well stewed and 

strained pumpkin, 1 qt. of scalding not rich milk, 1^ cups of 
sugar, 4 eggs, 1 teafipoonful of salt, 1 tablespoonful of ginger 
and 1 of ground cinnamon. 

Bake in pie plate lined with good paste ; do not let mixture 
stand after it is put together, but bake at once. 

808. PUMPSIN PIE (2)— Ingredients— Iqt. of stewed pumpkin 

pressed through a sieve, 9 eggs, whites and yolks beaten 
separately, 2 qts. milk, 1 tcaspoouful of mace, 1 of cinnamon 
and 1 of nutmeg, 1^ cups of sugar. 

Beat all tor^ther and bake with one crust. 

809. PUMPSIN PIE (3)— Ingredients— A pumpkin, 1 good cup- 

ful of molafases, to a M'hole pumpkin allow 3 pints of rich 
milk, 4 eggs, some salt, a little cinnamon, brown sugar to 
taste, crust. 

Prepare the pumpkin by cutting into small pieces. Stew 
rapidly until it is soft and the water is stewed out, then let it 
remain on the stove to simmer all day. When well cooked add 
the molasses, and cook all down until dry. Then sift through 
a cullender, it will nearly all go through if properly cooked. 
Then add the milk, spices and eggs. Too much spice destroys 
the flavor of the pumpkin. Sweeten to taste. Then bake in a 
crust the same as for custard. Let it cook until of a dark 
brown color. This is a very wholesome dish. 

810. MARLBOROU'G-H PIE.— Ingredients— 6 tart apples, 6 oz. 

of sugar, (i oz, of butter or thick cream, 6 eggs, the grated 
peel of 1 lemon, and ^ the juice. 

Grate the apples, after paring and coring them ; stir together 
the butter and sugar, as for cake ; then add the other ingredi- 
ents, and bake in a rich under-paste only. 

81L rRBNOH PA1T0AKES-— Ingredients— 5 eggs, nearly a 
pint of cream, 1 oz. of butter. 

Beat the cream till it is stiff, and the yolks and whites separ- 
ately, and add to the cream and beat the mixture for five min- 
ut'id ; butter the pan an^l fry quickly, sugar and roll, and plac§ 
on a hot dish in the oyen, Serve very hgt. 



l>iES. MRS. Clarke's cookery loor. 525 



812. PXIBITOH PAITOASES (2)— Ingredienta-i pint of milk, 2 

ox. of butter, 2 oz. of loaf sugar, 2 oz. of flour, 2 eggs. 

Put milk, butter and sugar into a saucepan to dissolve (not 
boil), beat eggs and flour together till quite smooth, then 
add the other ingredients and well mix. Divide this quantity 
and put it in four saucers to bake for twenty minutes ; lay two 
pancakes on a dish, and spread preserve over, cover them with 
the other two pancakes ; serve very hot. 

813. RIOE PiLlTOAKES.— Tngredieuta~i lb. of rice, 1 pint of 

cream, 8 eggs, a little salt and nutmeg, ^ lb. of butter, flour. 

Boil the rice to a jelly in a small quantity of water ; when 
cold, mix it with the cream, well whisk the eggs and add also, 
with a little salt and nutmeg. Then stir in the butter, just 
warmed, and add, slowly stirring all the time, as much flour as 
will make the batter thick enough. Fry in as little lard as 
possible. 

814. IRISH PANOAEBS.— Ingredient*!— Seggs, 1 pint of cream, 

nutmeg and sugar to taste, 3 oz. of butter, ^ pint of flour. 

Beat 8 yolks and four whites of eggs, strain them into the 
cream, put in grated nutmeg and sugar to taste ; set three 
ounces of fresh butter on the fire, stir it, and as it warms pour 
it to the cream, which should be warm when the eggs are put 
to it ; then mix smooth almost half a pint of flour. Fry the 
pancakes very thin ; the first with a piece of butter, but not 
the others. Serve several on one another. 

815. BIT&LISHPAITOASES.— Ingredients— 4 oz. flour, 2 eggs, 

a little more than ^ pt. of milk, a pinch of salt, 2 oz. of lard, 
a few drops of lemon juice, 2 oz. of sugar. 

Add the salt to the flour, break the eggs into the flour with 
a spoonful of milk, and mix well ; then add slowly the rest ot 
the milk, mixing all the time ; grease the pan with a small 
piece of lard, and proceed to fry them (they should be very 
thin) ; and as they are done put two or three drops of lemon 
juice and a sprinkling of sugar on each. 

816. APPLE PIE- — Ingredients — Some nice cooking apples, sugar, 

some shred lemon peel, juice or a glass of cider. 

Pare and core the fruit having wiped the outsides with a 
damp cloth. Then boil the apples in a little water with the 
cores until it tastes well, strain, and put a little sugar, and a 
piece of bruised cinnamon, and simmer again. In the meantime 
place the apples in a dish, a paste being put round the edge ; 
when one layer is in, sprinkle half the sugar, and shred lemon- 
peel, and squeeze some juice, or a glass of cider if the apples 
O 



2 26 MRS. Clarke's cookery Book. Pies. 

have lost their spirit ; put in the rest of the apples, sugar, and 
the liquor that you have boiled. Cover with paste. You may 
add some butter when cut, if eaten hot ; or put quince-marma- 
lade, orange-paste, or cloves, to flavor. 

817. AITOTKBR APPLS PIE-— Ingredients— Puflf paste, apples, 

sugar (brown will do), a small quantity of finely miucecl 
lemon peel, and lemon juice. 

Prepare the paste (See Recipe No. 833), spread a narrow strip 
round the edge of your baking dish, and put in the fruit which 
you have previously peeled, cored and cut into convenient 
slices. Sweeten according to taste and add the flavoring. 
Cover with a pie crust, making a small hole in the middle, and 
place in theoven to bake. When nearly done ice the crust with 
the white of an egg, beaten to a froth and spread lightly over it. 
Sprinkle with white sugar and replace in the oven until done. 

818. ORANaE AND APPLE PIE— Ingredients— I'uU paste, 

oranges, apples, sugar. 
Cover a tin pie-plate with puff pastry and place a layer of 
sliced oranges]; with the pips removed, on it, and scatter sugar 
over them. Then put a layer of sliced apples, with sugar, and 
cover with slices of oranges and sugar. Put an upper crust of 
nice pastry over the pie, and bake it for half an hour, or until 
the apples are perfectly soft. Take the pie from the tin-plate 
while it is warm, put into a china plate and scatter sugar over 
the top. 

819. APPLE TAUT.— Ingredients— Puflf paste, apple marmalade, 

1 egg. 

Lay a disc of puff paste on a round tin, spread a layer 
(about three-eighths of an inch thick) of apple marmalade over 
it, leaving a rim an inch wide clear all round ; roll out, and cut 
some of the paste in strips the size of a straw ; form a trellis 
work with them over the marmalade, then put a border of 
paste all round over the rim. Glaze the top of the border and 
trellis with beaten-up egg, and bake in quick oven. 

820. RIOE PASTE FOR TARTLETS.— Ingredients-7 oz. of 

rice, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 2 eggs. 

Simmer the rice until tender, drain, place in a marble mortar 
with the butter and well whisked eggs ; beat thoroughly, and 
with the hands make into paste. 

821. TO lOE OR aLAZE PASTRY.— Ingredienta-Thc whites 

3 eggs, 4 oz. sugar. 
Place the whites upon a plate (beaten with a knife to a stiff 
froth), just before the pastry is done remove from the oven ; 



PlfiS. MRS. Clarke's cookkry book. iij 

brush with the beaten egg and sprinkle the white sugar upon it 
Return to the oven to set. 

822. &LAZS- — Ingredients— The yolks of 3 eggs, a small piece of 

warm butter, white sugar. 

Beat the yolks and butter together, and with a pastry brush 
brush the pastry just before it is finished baking, sift white 
sugar upon it and return to the oven to dry. 

823. LIGnT PASTE FOR TARTS-— Ingredients— l egg, fib. of 

flour, i lb. butter. 

Beat the white of an egg to a strong froth, then mix it with 
as much water as will make the flour into a very stiff paste ; 
roll it very thin, then lay the third part of half a pound of butter 
upon it in little pieces ; dredge with some flour left out at first 
and roll up tight. Roll it out again, and put the same proportion 
of butter, and so proceed till all be worked up. 

824. GBITOISB PASTRY (1).— Ingredients— J lb. of the freshest 

butter, 4 oz. of white sugar, 4 eggs, J lb. of fine flour. 

Take the butter, put it in a bowl, and warm it until it can 
be beaten with a spoon ; add to it the sugar, and beat the two 
together until a smooth white cream is obtained, then add one 
egg, and keep on beating the mixture till it is smooth again, 
then add three more e^'gs in the same manner. The speck of 
the eggs should be removed. Lastly, incorporate quickly with 
the mixture the flour, and as soon as it is smooth pour it out 
to the thickness of half an inch on a buttered flat tm, and put 
it into the oven at once. When done (in about ten to fifteen 
minutes) turn out the slab of Genoise, and put it to cool, under 
side uppermost, on a sieve. There is a great knack in beating 
this paste to prevent its curdling. Should this happen, it can 
generally be remedied by beating as quickly as possible until 
the mixture is smooth again. 

825. GENOISE PASTRY (2).— Ingredients— J lb. of fresh butter, 

J lb. of fine flour, 4 oz. of white sugar, 6 egga, J a wine glass 
of brandy. 

Beat the butter (warmed) with the flour, add the sugar and 
brandy. Then beat in one by one the egga, and bake as 
above. 

826. OHOOOLATB GENOISE.— Ingredients— Icing, ^ lb. white 

sugar, 2 oz. of giated chocolate, and about a gill of water. 
Genoise pastry as above, apricot jam. 

Prepare the icing as follows : — Put the sugar in a sugar 
boiler and add the chocolate and water ; stir over the fire until 
the mixture assumes the consistency of a smooth thick cream. 



i2^ MRS. Clarke's cookery fiooK. I'ies. 



Take a slab of Genoise, spread on the top of it the thinnest 
possible coating of apricot jam, then a coating of the icing. 
Put it into a very hot oven for rather less than a minute, take 
it out, and place it in a cold place to get cool ; then cut it up 
with a sharp knife in lozenges or any other shape, and serve 
piled up on a napkin. 

827. ALMOND GENOISE.— Ingredients— 2 oz. of l)lanchc(l al- 

mends, a little orange flower water, 2 oz. of fresh butter 
(warmed), 4 oz. of white sugar, yolks of 4, and whites of 2 
eggs, 4 oz. of tine flour, essence of vanilla, apricot jam Icing: 
whites of 2 eggs, lemon juice, a little ylace sugar. 

Beat in a mortar the almonds, moistening with the orange 
flower water to prevent oiling. Beat in a bowl the butter and 
sugar, add the almonds and the yolks and whites of the eggs, 
one at a time, then very gradually add the flour. Continue 
beating until the mixture is perfectly smooth, then flavor it 
with some essence of vanilla, and bake as above. Spread the 
Genoise with apricot jam as above, and, instead of chocolate, 
use icing made as follows : — Put the whites of the eggs into a 
basin with a little of the lemon juice and some of the sugar. 
Work the mixture well with a wooden spoon, and, as it gets 
thin, add more sugar, until a smooth paste of the consistency 
of butter is obtained. Lay this icing on the slab of Genoise 
with a palette knife, put it in the oven for a minute to set the 
icing, and take it out at once in a cool place, then cut up the 
slab as above. 

828. ALMOND PASTRY.— Ingredients— i lb. of flour, J pt. of 

milk, a piece of butter tlie aize of an egg, juice of 1 lemon, 
white sugar to taste, a handful of sweet almonds, yolks of 4 
eggs, whites of three eggs. 

Make a batter with the flour, milk, lemon juice and sugar. 
Mix in (off the fire) the sweet almonds, chopped up, and the 
yolks. Let the whole get cold, then work into it the whites, 
whisked to a froth, and spread out the batter on a baking sheet. 
Sift plenty of powdered sugar over, bake ten minutes in a slow 
oven, and cut it out in strips ; serve hot or cold. 

829. ALMOND PASTRY (2).— Ingredients— .loz.of almonds, ^Ib. 

butter, 2 oz. of loaf sugar, a little rose water. 

Pound the almonds, butter, and loaf sugar with a little rose 
water till it becomes a thick paste. Spread it on a buttered 
tin, bake in a slow oven. When cold divide it into eight pieces, 
put a spoonful of preserve on each piece, and cover with 
whipped cream. 



PASTRV. MRS. CLARKE S COOKERY BOOK. 2?9 

830. FYHAMID FASTS' — Ingredients— A sheet of pn(f pMt«, 

raspberry or apricot jam, or currant jelly, dried greengages, 
cherries or baroerries. 

Roll out the puff paste to halt an inch thick ; cut or stamp it 
into oval shapes ; the fust, the size of the bottom of the dish in 
which you serve it, the next smaller, and so on till it forms a 
pyramid ; then lay each piece separately on paper in a baking 
plate, egg the tops of the pieces, and bake them of a light 
color. When done, take them off the paper, lay them on a 
large dish till cold, set the largest piece in the dish, put on it 
either of the above preserves, lay the next size on that, and 
more sweetmeats, and proceed in the same way with the other 
pieces till they are all placed on each other. Put dried green 
gages, barberries, or cherries round, and serve. Instead of 
stamping the pieces, they may be cut with a sharp kn-ife ; small 
pieces may be cut out round the edges to appear like spires, 
which will cause the paste to appear still lighter. 

831. PASTE rOR IrlllTOB PIES-— Ingredients— 2 lbs. of the 

finest pastry Hour, 2 lbs. of fresh butter, the yolks of 4 fresh 
eggs, 2 pinches of salt, the juice of half a lemon, tepid water. 

Work the butter in a napkin till it is well freed from water* 
Place the flour on the pastry slab in a heap, make a hole in 
the middle of it, put in it the yolks of the eggs, freed from the 
speck, salt, the juice of half a lemon, and the fourth part of the 
butter cut up in very small pieces; work the paste as quickly as 
possible with the fingers of one hand, adding as much moder- 
ately tepid water as will make the paste smooth, and of the same 
consistence as the remaining one and a half pounds of butter. 
Beat the latter out into a flat square piece an inch in thickness; 
roll out the paste to four times the size of the piece of butter, 
lay this in the centre of the paste, which you fold over on each 
side, and roll out again to three times its original size, then 
fold over two sides only of the piece of paste, and roll it out 
again as before. Repeat this operation twice, cover the paste 
with a woollen cloth, and let it rest for half an hour. The 
operation of rolling out and folding up the paste is called 
"giving a turn." After the paste has rested, two more turns 
are to be given to it, and it will be ready. 

832. PASTRY FOR SWEET SAITD'WIOHES.— ingredients— 

7 tablespoonfuls of flour, 7 tablespoonfuls of butter, 6 table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, 7 eggs. 

Place the butter in a stewpan on the stove to melt ; sift tho 
flour, add the sugar to the eggs (having removed them from the 
shelly place the basin containing the eggs and sugar in a 5?i.oc.ft 



230 MRS. Clarke's cookery uook. Pastrv. 

pan of boiling water and whip the contents a quarter of an 
hour ; then remove from the fire ; now add the butter and sift 
in the flour, lightly stirring all the time. Hake in tins lined 
with buttered paper, put into a quick oven and test with broom 
straw. 

N. B.— When the butter is on the stove take care it does 
not burn, only allow it to melt. 

833. PUFF FASTS.— In«redieut8— One lb. of Hour, 1 lb. of but- 

t«ri i figMi cold water. 
Mix the flour with a Irmp of butter the size of an egg, and 
the egg to a very stifT paste with cold water ; divide the butter 
into six equal parts, roll the paste and spread on one part of 
the butter, dredging it with Auur ; repeat until all the butter is 
rolled in. 

834. SHORT OEXJST.— Ingredients— Half lb. of f.our, 3 oz. of 

butter, '2 oz. of white sugar, a pinch of salt, yolks of 3 eggs. 

Rub into the Tour the butter and the powdered loaf sugar ; 
beat up the yolks of the eggs , the salt, and enough milk or 
water lo mrke tho flour into a paste ; work the paste lightly, 
and roll it out thin. If not wanted sweet, the sugar can be 
left out. 

835. AIT BZOELLEITT SHORT ORTTST. -Ingredients-Two 

of wliite sugar, 1 lb. of Hour, 3 oz. of butter, cream, yolks 
of two eggs. 

Dry the sugar, pounding and sifting it, then mix it with the 
flour well-dried ; rub into it the butter so finely as not to be 
seen. Into some cream put the eggs well beaten and mix all 
to a smooth paste ; roll thin and bake in a moderate oven. 

836. FT ''"AT) ORTJST.— Ingredients— li lbs. of flour, 10 oz. of 

flead, salt to taste, a glass of water. 

Remove skin, and cut into thin flakes and rub into the flour; 
add a sprinkling of salt and work the whole into a paste with 
the water; fold the paste over three times, beat it well with a 
rolling pin, roll out, and it is ready for use. This will be found 
extremely light if well prepared. 

837. DRIPPING CRUST FOR SITOHBIT TJSE—Ingredients 

— 1 lb. of Hour, 5 oz. of claiitied beef dripping, a glass of 
water. 

Work the flour into a paste, with the water ; roll into a sheet 
and spread upon it two ounces of the dripping ; repeat this 
twice, be sure to use good beef dripping. If wanted for p 
<(iioTt rrust^ half » teacupful of moist sugar may be added". 



Pastrv. MRS. Clarke's cookkry hook. aji 

838. SXTST 0EX7ST FOB MEAT FTJDDZlTaS IngrcdionU- 

Kight oz. of flour, 5 oz. of beef suet, a little salt. 

Remove all skin from the suet, chop finely, and mix with the 
flour, adding a Httle salt, mix well, and add by decrees a little 
cold water and make into a paste ; flour the paste board and 
place the paste upon it, roll out to the thickness of a quarter 
of an inch. It is then ready lor use. 

839. POTATO PASTE.— Ingredients— rotatocs, butter, an egg. 
Pound boiled potatoes very fine, and add, while warm, a 

sufficiency of butter to make the mash hold together, or you 
may mix it with an egg ; then before it gets cold, flour the 
bo.ird pretty well to prevent it from sticking, and roll it to the 
thickness wanted. If it has become quite cold before it be put 
on the dish, it will be apt to crack. 

840. PLAZYORTJST FOR PIES OR TARTS- -Ingredeints- 

Onelb. of flour, ^ lb of butter, 1^ teaspooufuls baking pow- 
der, 2 eggs, J pint of water. 

Mix the baking powder with the flour, whip the whites of 
the eggs to a stiff froth, then add to the flour and mix into a 
stiff paste with quarter of a pint of water-; flour the paste 
board, and roll out the paste to a thin sheet, divide the butter 
into three, take one part and spread over the paste, sprinkle a 
little fiour over and fold into three, roll again and spread 
second portion of butter, fold as before and add the rest of the 
butter, fold again and roll the thickness required ; bake in 
quick oven. 

841. BTTTTER ORTJST FOR BOILED PUDDINaS— Ingredi- 

ents — Half lb. of flour, 3 oz. of butter, a gill of water. 

Make the flour into a paste with the water, roll thin and 
place the butter upon it cut in small pieces, sprinkle a little 
flour over and fold the paste, roll again into a sheet the thick- 
ness required. 

842. BASED ST7ET 0R7ST.— Ingredients— Equal proportions of 

sifted flour and beef suet, sprinkling of salt. 

Shred beef suet very thin ; take equal proportions of sifted 
flour, roll a little suet with a little flour ; put it aside as you do 
it, and continue the process until all the suet and flour are 
rolled together into flakes ; gather them into a heap on the 
board, sprinkle them with water, using as little as possible, to 
make the mass into paste ; when it is worked into a smooth 
smooth paste, beat it a little with the rolling pin, and roll out as 
tbinas possible ; foil it over to the required thickness, and 
put it on the pie ; bake rather quickly. This crust should he 



232 MRS. CLARKE'S COOKERY BOOK. PaSTRY. 

eaten before quite cold, and, if properly made, will be a very 
good and light puff paste. 

843. OEAITGE FRITTERS (l)— Ingredients— A few oranges, 1 

wineglaasful of brandy, 1 spoonful of sugar for batter, 2 oz. of 
melted butter, | lb. of flour, yolks of 2 eggs, i piut of tepid 
■water, whites of 3 eggs. 

Cut some oranges in halves, use a sharp knife to remove the 
peel, pith and pips. Stand the bits of orange in a basin with 
the brandy and sugar for one hour. When ready to fry them drain 
them first on a sieve, then dip them separately in a batter made 
thus : Add melted butter to the flour, and two yolks of eggs. Mix 
these ingredients together with a wooden spoon, working in at 
intervals half a pint of tepid water ; it must be worked up with 
the spoon until it looks creamy, and just before you use it add 
lightly the whites of eggs, whisked previously to a fine froth. 

844. ORAITQ-E FRITTERS (2).— Ingredients— 5 tablespoonfuls of 

water, 2 of tine flour, 1 of melted butter or salad oil, 1 egg, 
salt, sugar. 

Mix the water, flour, melted butter, or salad oil, the yolk of 
the egg, and a very little salt. When ready to be used, mix the 
white of one egg whisked to a froth lightly with the batter. 
Divide two oranges as in the preceding recipe, sprinkle sugar 
over them ; let them remain an hour, then dip each piece 
separately in the batter. Get some frying fat ready at the right 
heat, and put in your fritters ; a few minutes will cook them 
enough. Remove them from the pan with a wire spoon, drain 
them on paper, and sift sugar over them ; serve very hot. 

845. SFAlTISn FRITTERS-— Ingredients-Crumbs of a French 

roll, cream, nutmeg, sugar, pounded cinnamon, 1 egg, butter, 
wine, and sugar sauce. 

Cut the crumb oi the French roll into lengths about thtee 
quarters of an inch thick, in any shape you please. Soak in 
the cream, nutmeg, sugar, pounded cinnamon and egg. Fry 
a nice brown and serve with the wine, butter, and sugar sauce. 

846. OREAM FRITTERS. — Ingredients — 3 tablespoonfuls of 

potato flour, 1 pint of new milk, 2 whole eggs, yolks of 4 
eggs, a pat of very fresh butter, powdered white sugar to 
taste, a few drops of essence of almonds, bread crumbs. 

Make a smooth paste with the flour, and a part of the milk ; 
then gradually add the remainder of the milk, the eggs, and 
yolks, the butter, white sugar to taste, and essence of almonds. 
Put the mixture into a saucepan on the fire, stirring all the 
<*hile till it is quite thick. Spread out on a slab until df thick- 



FASTRV. A'KS. CLARKES COOKERY nOOK. 233 

ness of half an inch. When quite cold cut into lozenges ; egg 
and bread crumb them, or dip in the butter ; fry a nice color 
in lard and serve sprinkled with white sugar. 

847. EZOS PRITTBRS.— Ingredients— 3 tableapoonfuls of rice, 4 

well beaten eggs, i lb. of cnnants, grated lemon peel, nutmeg 
and sugar to taato, flour. 

Boil the rice until it has fully swelled, then drain quite dry, 
and mix with the eggs, the currants, grated lemon peel, and 
nutmeg and sugar to taste. Stir >n as much flour as will thick- 
en it, and fry in hot lard. 

848. APPLE PRITTERS.— Ingredients— Some large apples, i pt. 

of ale, 2 eggs, Hour, nutmeg and sugar to taste. 

Pare, core, and slice the apples into round pieces. Beat into 
the ale and eggs sufficient flour to form a thick batter. Add 
nutmeg and sugar to taste. Dip the slices of apple into the 
batter, fry crisp, and serve with sugar grated over and wine 
sauce in a wine boat. 

849. PLAIN PRITTEIRS.— Ingredients— Crumbs of bread, 1 pt. 

of milk, yolks of 5 eggs, 3 oz, of sifted white sugar, and 
grated nutmeg, melted butter, wine and sugar. 

Grate the breadcrumbs and add the hot milk, mix smooth 
and when cold add the yolks, sugar and nutmeg. Fry them and 
when done serve, with melted butter wine and sugar poured 
round. 

850. OUSTARD PRITTBRS.— Ingredients— Yolks of 8 eggs, I 

epooiiful of flour, ^ a nutmeg, salt, a wine glass of braady, 1 
pt. of cream, sugar to taste. Batter:— J pt, of cream, J pt. 
of milk, 4 eggs, a little flour, and a little grated ginger. 

Beat the yolks with the flour, nutmeg, salt, and brandy, put 
in the cream, sweeten to taste and bake on a small dish. When 
cold cut into slices and dip into a batter made in the above 
proportions. Fry them and when done sprinkle with white 
sugar. 

80I. OEEESE FZIITTEZIS' — Ingredients — About a pint of water, 

a piece of butter the size of an egg, the least piece of cayenne, 

plenty of black pepper, J lb. of ground Parmesan cheese, 

yolks of two or three eggs, and whites of two beaten to a froth, 

salt, flour. 

Put the water into a saucepan with the butter, cayenne, and 

black pepper. When the water boils throw gradually into it 

sufficient flour to form a thick paste ; then take it off the fire 

nnd work into it the Parmesan cheesej and then the yolks anil 



234 MRS, CLARKE'S COOKERY BOOK. PaSTRY. 

whites of the eggs. Let the paste rest for a couple of hours, 
and proceed to fry by dropping pieces of it the size of a walnut 
into plenty of hot lard. Serve sprinkled with very fine salt. 

862. STRA'WXBRIIY miTTBRS.— Ingredients— l spoonful of 
sweet oil, one of white wine, some rasped lemon peel, whites 
of 2 or 3 eggs, some large strawberries, white sugar. 

Make a batter with the oil, white wine, rasped lemon peel, 
and the whites of the eggs. Make the batter thick enough to 
drop from the spoon. Mix the strawberries with it, and drop 
them with a spoon into the hot fritters. "When of a good color, 
take them out and drain them on a sieve. As soon as done 
sprinkle with sugar. 

853. RASPBERRY PRITTERS- — Ingredients — Crumbs of a 

French roll, 1 pt. of boiling cream, yolks of 4 eggs, well 
beaten, raspberry juice, some blanched sliced almonds. 

Grate the crumb of the French roll, and mix with the cream. 
When cold add the yolks of the eggs. Mix altogether with the 
raspberry juice ; drop them into a pan of boiling lard in very 
small quantities. When done stick over with the almonds. 

854. ALMOITD F7FFS- — Ingredients — 2 oz. of sweet almond, a 

little orange flower water, whites of three eggs, some sifted 
sugar. 

Blanch and beat the almonds, moistening with a little orangu- 
flower water ; whisk the whites of the eggs to a froth, strew in 
sifted sugar; mix the almonds with the sugar and eggs, and 
continue adding the sugar till the mixture is as thick as paste. 
Lay it in cakes and bake on paper in a cool oven. 

855. FTTZTS FOR DESSERT- — Ingredients— 1 pt. of milk and 

cream, the white of 4 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 1 heaping 
cup of sifted flour, 1 scant cup of powdered sugar ; add a 
little grated lemon peel and a little salt. 

Beat these all together till very light, bake in gem pans, sift 
pulverized sugar over them and eat with sauce flavored with 
lemon. 

856. TLAT3S FITFFS- — Ingredients— Yolks ot 6 eggs, 1 pint of 

sweet milk, a large pinch of salt, whites of 6 eggs, flour. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs till very light, stir in the milk, 
salt and the whites beaten to a stiff froth, and flour enough 
to maks a batter about as thick as a boiled custard. Bake in 
^mail tins in a quick oven; 



Pastry. mrs. ci.arke s cookery book. 235 



857. SFAlTZSn F7F7S- — Ingredients— A teacupful of water, a 
tablespoonful of white gugar, a pinch of salt, 2 oz. of butter, 
flour, yolks of 4 eggs. 
Put the water into a saucepan, the sugar, salt and butter ; 
while it is boiling add sufficient flour for it to leave the sauce- 
pan ; stir in one by one the yolks of the four eggs ; drop a 
tcaspoonful at a time into boiling lard; fry them alight brown. 

858 CXIEAM PUrFS —Ingredients — 1 pt. of water, i lb. of but- 
ter, i lb. of oifteil flour, 10 eggs, 1 small teaspoon of soda, 
mock cream, 1 cup of sugar, 4 eggs, 1 cup of flour, 1 qt. of 
milk, flavoring. 
Boil the water, rub the flour with the butter ; stir into the 
water while boiling. When it thickens like starch remove from 
the fire. When cool stir into it the well-beaten eggs and the 
soda. Drop the mixture on to the bnttered tins with a large 
spoon. Bake until a light brown, in a quick oven. When done, 
open one side and fill with mock cream made as follows in the 
above proportions : beat eggs to a froth ; stir in the sugar, then 
flour ; stir them into the milk while boiling ; stir till it thickens ; 
then remove from the fire and flavor with lemon or vanilla. It 
should not be put into the puifs until cold. 

859. ORANGE purrs —Ingredients— Rind and juice of 4 oran- 
g-fs, 2 Iba. of sifted sugar, butter. 

Grate the rind of the oranges, add the sugar, pound together 
and make into a stiff paste witli the butter and juice of the 
fruit ; roll it, cut into shapes and bake in a cool oven. Serve 
piled up on a dish with sifted sugar over. 

SCO. Q-ZIAEAIA PTTPFS-— Ingredients— To one quart of Graham 

flour add ij pt. fine white flour, and enough milk or water, a 

little warm, to make a thick batter ; no salt or baking 

powder. 

Have your oven hotter than for biscuit, and your gem pans 

standing in the oven till you get ready. Beat batter thoroughly, 

grease your pans, and drop in while the irons are smoking hot. 

Bake quickly a nice brown. 

861. LEMON purrs.— Ingredients— One lb. of double refined 

su^ar, juice and riuds of 2 lemons, white of 1 egg, 3 whole 

eggs. 

Bruise the sugar, and sift through a fine sieve, put it into a 

bowl with the juice of the lemons and mix well together. Beat 

the white of egg to a very stiff froth, put it into your bowl, add 

the remaining eggs, with the rinds of the lemons grated. Mix 

well up and throw sugar on your papers, drop on the puffs in 

^mali drops and in a moderately heated oven. 



236 MRS. CLARKE'S COOKERY BOOK. PaSTRV. 

862. OBOOOLATE PTJEJPS— Ingredients— J a lb. of double re- 

fined sugar, 1 oz. of chocolate, white of an e^'g. 

Beat and sift the sugar, scrape into it, very finely, the choco- 
late and mix well together. Beat the white of the egg to a 
stiff froth and strew in the chocolate and sugar, beat till as 
stiff as paste. Then sugar the paper, drop them in very small 
quantities and bake in a slow oven. 

863. LEMOIT OHEESEOASES.— Ingredients-Boil the peel of 

2 large lemons, pound well in a mortar, with a ^ of a lb. of 
loaf sugar, the yolks of eggs, j. a lb. o^' fresh butter, and 
some curd beaten tine. 

Mix all together, lay a puff paste ou the pattypans, fill them 
half full, and bake them. Orange cheesecakes are done the 
same way ; but the peel must be boiled in two or three waters, 
to take off its bitter taste before it is put in. 

864. OUHD CEEESECAKES-^Ingredients— 2qts. of milk.^lb. 

of butter, salt, sugar, 3 rolled biscuits, a little spice and 
cloves 8 eggs (using only 4 whites), 2 spoonfuls of wine and 
orange flower water; ^ lb. of currants. 

Turn the milk ; then dry the curd by pouring it through a 
sieve ; put it in a pan and rub in the butter, add the salt, sugar, 
biscuits, spice, cloves and eggs, well beaten up in the wine and 
orange flower water ; wash il) 'veil together through a coarse 
sieve, adding the currantb. 

865. MAIDS OP aONOR.- Ingredients -■ Puff paste, 1 lb. of 

sugar (white), yolks of 12 eggs, 1 oz. of sweet blanched al- 
monds, and 12 bitter almonds, 4 tablespoonfuls of orange 
flower water. 

Line small tartlet tins witn puff paste and fill with this mix- 
ture ; beat the sugar with the yolks in a mortar, adding the 
almonds and orange flower water just before filling the tarts. 
Bake in a moderately heated oven. 

866. PBTITS OHOUZ A LA ORBMB.-Ingredients-About I 

pt. of water, a little salt, a piece of butter the sir,*} of an egg, 
name of sugar, plenty of grated lemon peel, flour enough to 
make a thick paste, 3 or 4 eggs, white sugar, jam, jelly or 
French custard creme a choux. 

Put the water into a saucepan with the salt, butter, sugar 
and lemon peel. When the water boils throw gradually into it 
the flour ; then remove from the fire, let it remain ten minutes, 
and work in the eggs. Butter a baking sheet and lay the paste 
upon it in neat little heaps, about one teaspoonful to each. 
Bake a nice color in a moderate oven, take them out, sprinkln 



1»astrV. MRS. Clarke's coofcftRV 6001^. ij7 



some sugar over them, and put them in again for a few minutes. 
Make an incision in the under side of each, and insert a small 
piece of jam or jelly, or some French custard creme a choux. 

867. ALliIOlTD TAHTS- — Ingredients.— Sweet almonds, white 

wine, sugar (1 lb. of sugar to 1 lb. of almonds), grated bread, 
nutmeg, cream, and the juice of some spinach. 

Blanch and beat fine the almonds with the other ingredients. 
Bake in a gentle oven, and when done thicken with candied 
orange or citron. 

868. GI'BESlTG'ACI-& TART- — Ingredients — Some greengages, 

sugar, \ a glass of water, short paste, 2 whites and 3 

yolks of eggs, 1 oz. of butter, 1 oz. of sugar, a pinch of salt, 

tlour, rice. 

vStone the fruit and slew them for an hour, with plenty of 

sugar and the water. Make a short paste with ane of the 

whites and the three yolks of the eggs, the butter, sugar, salt, 

water and flour quant, suff. Roll it out to the thickness of a 

penny piece, line a tourte mould with it uniting the joints with 

white of egg, fill it with rice and bake it. When done remove 

the rice, put in the stewed fruit, and serve. 

889. RASPBBRET AND OTTHRAITT TAllTLETS.- Ingre- 
dients — Short paste, white of 1 and yolks of 3 eggs, 1 oz. of 
sugar, 1 oz. of butter, a pinch of salt, and flour qxuint. huJ)'., 
uncooked rice, raspberries and currants, syrup, sugar, brandy 
or sherry. 

Make the short paste in the above proportions ; work it light- 
ly, roll out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Line some 
patty pans with it, fill them with uncooked rice to keep their 
shape, and bake them in a moderate oven till done. Remove 
the stalks from the raspberries and currants, add some syrup 
made with the sugar, and a little brandy or sherry, empty the 
tartlets of the rice, fill each with the fruit, put them iuto the 
oven to get hot, and serve. They may also be served cold. 

870. OHEHHY TAUT. — Ingredients— Short paste as above ; 1^ 
lbs. of stewing cherries, sugar, a little sherry, a few drops of 
cochineal, rice. 

Work the paste lightly, roll it out to the thickncijs of a quar- 
ter of an inch ; line a flat mould with tbe paste, uniting the 
joints carefully with the white of egg, fill the mould with rice 
and bake it. Stone the cherries and cook them with the sugar, 
sherry, and cochineal to give them a nice color. Remove the 
rice and put in the stewed cherries. Serve hot or cold. 



2^& Uk^. c:r,ARKE*S COOKERY ftOok. I^ASl-feV. 

871. AFFLZ TAHTLETS-— IiigieJients — A few large apj.lcs, 

the juice and rind of a lemon, 1 lb. of sugar, 1 qt of water, i*. 
cloves. For paste 2 oz. of sugar, 2 oz. of butter, the yolks of 
4 eggs, a little water, a pinch of salt, a little flour and rice. 

Peel, core, and halve some large apples, trimming them so aa 
to get them all of one size ; drop them as they are done into 
cold water with the juice of a lemon squeezed into it, to pre- 
vent their turning brown. Have ready a syrup (made with i 
lb. of sugar and i qt. of water) boiling hot, put the apples into 
this, with the thin rind of a lemon and two or three cloves. As 
soon as they are cooked (great care muse be taken that they do 
not break), take them out and leave them to get cold, then set 
the syrup on the fire to reduce. Make some short paste with 
the above ingredients, work it lightly and roll it out to the 
thickness of one-eighth of an inch. Line some patty pans with 
it, fill them with uncooked rice to keep their shape; bake them 
in a moderate oven till done. Remove the rice, and place on 
each tartlet half an apple, the concave side uppermost, pour a 
little of the reduced syrup on each tartlet, and lastly, put a 
piece of guava or currant jelly in the cavity of each apple. 

872. APPLE TAUT (1). — Ingredients— Puff paste, apple-marmal- 

ade, apples, sugar. 

Lay a disc of puff paste on a round tin, and place a strip of 
paste all round it as for an ordinary jam tart. Spread on the 
inside a layer of apple marmalade a quarter of an inch thick. 
Peel and core the apples, cut them in slices a quarter of an 
inch thick, trim all the slices to the same shape, disposa all 
these over the marmalade, overlapping each other, and in 
some kind of pattern ; strew plenty of sugar over, and bake 
in a quick oven till the apples are a good color. 

873. APPLE TAIIT,(2).— Ingredients— Short paste, 6 apples, 

thin rind and juice of a lemon, white sugar, 4 or 5 eggs. 

Line ti^an mould (a flat tin with an upright edge one inch 
to one and a half inches hiijh) with a thin crust of short paste. 
Stew the peeled, cored, and quartered apples with a little 
water, the thin rind of the lemon, and white sugar quani. 
suj^ ; when quite tender, beat them up with a fork ; add the 
juice and grated rind of the lemon, and work in one by one 
the yolks of the eggs, pour this mixture in the mould, and bake 
in a quick oven about half an hour. 

874. APPLE TAUT (3). — Ingredients — Some uncooked rice, apple 

marmalade, apricot jam, icing, glace sugar, white of eggs. 

Line ?^Jlan mould as above, fill it with the rice, and bake it; 



r.ASTRV. MRS CLARKn's Coorkrv ttooii. 2^g 



when done remove the rice and garnish it with a layer of apple 
marmalade. Spread over it a thin layer of apricot jam, and 
over that a thick layer of icing, made with the glace sugar and 
whites of egg beaten up. Put the tin in a very slack oven, just 
long enough to set the icing without coloring it, and serve cold. 
It may be ornamented with blanched pistachio nuts, strips of 
angelica, and candied cherries laid on the icing, before put- 
ting the tart in the oven. N.B. — To make icing, as much 
sugar should be beaten up with the white of egg as it will ab- 
sorb until the mixture is of the consistency of the thickest 
double cream ; whereas to make meringue, not more than half 
an ounce of sugar should be used for each white of egg. 

875. AFFLS PTXrrETS.— Two eggs, 1 pint of milk, snfficient 

flour to thicken, as waffle batter, 1^ teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. 

Fill a teacup alternately with a layer of butter and then of 
apples chopped fine ; steam one hour. Serve hot, with flavor- 
ed cream and sugar. 

876. APPLE TURITOVERS.— Ingredients- One lb. of flour, 5 

oz. of dripping or butter, small teaspoouful of baking powder, 
4 apples (allowing 1 for each turnover), 4 teaspoonfuls of 
brown sugar. 

Pare, core and slice the apples. Mix the baking powder 
into the flour, then add the dripping or butter mixing well to- 
gether. Moisten with cold water and stir to a paste. Roll 
out, cut into circles about seven inches in diameter. Put the 
apple on one of the rounds and sprinkle with sugar. Moisten 
the edges of the paste and shape in the form of a turnover. 



SWEET DISHES. 



«77. LEMOIT STALLBTJB.— Ingredients— To 1 pint of o»-eam 
allow 1 lb. of double retiued sugar, juice of 7 aud the rind of 
2 lemons, 1 pt. of white wine, \ pt. of sack. 

Add to the cream and sugar the juice of the lemons. Grate 
the rinds of the two ler ions into the wine and sack. Then put 
ail these ingredients into a saucepan and beat for thirty min- 
utes ; then pour into ^dasses the evening before you serve. It 
would be better for standing a day or two. 

878. "WIIIPPBD SILLABUB (l).— Ingredients— i pt. cream, 

1 n;ill of sherry, ^ gill of brandy, .3 oz. of white sugar, ^ a 
small nuvmeg, the juice of ^ a lemon, whipped creatn. 

Mix all the ingredients (excepting the cream); put the sylla- 
bub into glas;"-8, and heap on the top of them a small quantity 
of the whipped cream. 

879. "WHIPPED SYLLABUB (2).— Ingredients— 3 pints of thick 

cream, 1 pt white wine, the juice of 2 Seville oranges, the 
yellow rind of 3 lemons, 1 lb. double refined sugjar, 1 spoou- 
lul orange flower water. 

Grate the rind of the lemons, mix all the ingredients, whisk 
half an hour, and take ofTthe froth ; lay it on a sieve to drain 
then fill the glasses ; they will keep more than a week, but 
should always be made the day before they are used. The best 
way to whip a syllabub is to keep a large chocolate mill on pur- 
pose, and a large deep bowl to mill it in, as it will do quicker, 
and froth stronger. With the thin part left at the bottom, mix 
strong calfs foot jelly, and sweeten it to taste ; give it a boil, 
then pour it into basins, and when cold and turned out it will 
be a fine flummery. 

880. SOLID SYLLABUB— Ingredients— 1 quart of cream, 1 

pint of white wine, the juice of 2 lemons, the rind of 1 grated, 
sugar to taste. 

Mix the ingredients, havmg done so whip it up, and take off 
the froth as it rises. Put it upon a hair sieve, and let it stand 
in a cool place till the next day. Half fill your glasses with the 
skimmed part, and heap up the froth as high as you can. The 
bottom will look clear ; it will keep sev^eral days. 

— ^^.- - ' 240 - 



Sweet Dishes, mrs. clarke's cookery book, 241 



S81. rLTJMMERT (l).— Ingredients — 1 oz. bitter almonds, 1 08. 

of sweet, a little rose water, 1 pt. jelly stock, sugar to taste, 

1 pt. thick cream, 
blanch, and then throw into cold water, the almonds ; take 
rhem out, and beat them in a marble mortar, with a little rose 
water, to keep them from oiling, and put them into the jelly 
stock. Sweeten with white sugar; when it boils strain it through 
a piece of muslin, and when a little cold, put it into the cream, 
stirring often till thick and cold. Wet moulds in cold water, 
pour in the flummery, and let them stand six hours before 
turned out ; it made stiff, wet the moulds, and it will turn out 
without putting them into warm water, which destroys their 
brightness. 

«82. rLTJliIMEB.Y (2)— Ingredients— 3 large handfuls of small 
white oatmeal, 1 largo spoonful of white sugar 2 large spoonfuls 
of orange tlower water 

Put three large handfuls of very small white oatmeal to steep 
a day and night in cold water ; then pour it off clear, and add 
as much more water, and let it stand the same time. Strain it 
through a fine hair-sieve, and boil it till it be as thick as hasty- 
pudding ; stirring it well all the time. When first strained, put 
to it the white sugar, and flower water. Pour it into thallow 
dishes ; and serve to eat with wine, cider, milk, or cream and 
sugar. It is very good. 

883. BICE PLTTlrlMEBY.— Ingredients— 1 pint of milk a small 

piece of lemon peel and cimiamon, rice, flour, sugar to taste, a 
dessertspoonful of peach water or a bitter almond beaten. 

Put the lemon peel and cinnamon into the milk and bring to 
a boil, mix with a little cold milk as much rice-flour as 
will make the whole of a good consistence, sweeten, and add 
the flavoring, then boil it observing it does not burn ; pour in 
a shape or pint basin, removing the spice. When cold turn 
the flummery into a dish and serve with cream, milk, or custard 
round. 

884. DTTTOH rLTJMXIBllTt— Ingredients— 2 oz. of isinrrlass, IJ 

pints of water, 1 pt. of white wine, the juice of 3 lemons, the 
thin rend of 1 lemon, a few lumps of sugar, the yolks erf 7 
eggs. 

Boil two ounces of isinglass in the water very gently half an 

ho T ; add the wine, the juice of three, and the thin rind of one 

lemon, and rub a few lumps of sugar on another lemon to 

obtain the essence, and with them add as much more sugar 

P 



342 WKS. CLARKE'b COOKIiRY BOOK. SwEET DlSHES 

as will make it sweet enough ; and having beaten the yolks of 
theeggs.give them and the above, when mixed, one scald, stir all 
the time, and pour it into a basin ; stir it till hall told; then 
let it settle, and put it into a melon shape. 

885. ISmaLASS BLAITC-MAITGB -Ingredients — 1 oz. of 

iainglass, 1 qt. of water, w liitco of 4 eggs, '2 spoonfuls of rice. 

water, sugar to taste, 2 oz. of sweet and 1 oz. of bitter aluionda! 
Boil the isinglass in the water till it is reduced to a pint ; 
then add the whites of the eggs with the rice-water to prevent 
♦he eggs poaching, and sugar to taste ; run through the jelly-bag; 
then add the almonds ; give them a scald in the jelly, and pour 
them through a hair sieve : put it in a china bowl ; the next 
day turn it out, and stick it all over with almonds, blanched 
and cut lengthways. Garnish with green leaves or flowers. 

886. OLEAH BLANO-MANGE.— Ingredients— 1 qt. of strong 

calf's foot jelly, whitea ut 4 egps, 1 oz. of bitter and one 
of sweet almonds, a spoonful of rose water, 3 spoonfuKs 
of cream. 

Skim off the fat and strain the calfs foot jelly ; beat the 
whites of the eggs, and put them to the jelly; set it over the 
fire, and keep stirring it till it boils; then pour it into a jelly- 
bag, and run it through several times till it is clear ; beat the 
sweet and bitter almonds to a paste, with the rose-water 
squeezed through a cloth ; then mix it with the jelly and the 
cream ; set it over the fire again, and keep stirring it till it is 
almost boiling ; then pour it into a bowl, and stir it very often 
till it is almost cold ; then wet the moulds and fill them. 

887. BIOE BLANC-MANGE.— Ingredients— 6 oz. of the best 

rice, 1 pt. of water, ^ pt. of milk or cream, 3 oz. of white 
sugar, vanilla flavoring, any kind of preserve. 

Put the rice into a pipkin with the water and let it simmer 
slowly in the oven for 2 or 3 lours. Then add the cream or 
milk, sugar, and flavoring. Boil up over the fire, and pour in- 
to a mould. When quite cold serve with any kind of preserve. 

888. OOHNTLOUIl SLANO-MANGE— Ingredients — 4 or 5 

tablespoonfuls of corn-flour, a little over a quart of milk. 

Mix the corn to a stiff paste with a little of the milk. Put 
rest of the milk in a stewpan and set on the fire. Put the rind 
of a lemon in to infuse. Add sugar to taste, and when on the 
point of boiling, strain, and add.to the corn flour; return to the 
stewpan and boil ten minutes Wet a mould and pour the 
l/lanc-mange into it. bcivc with jelly, or aulk and bugar. 



Sweet Dishes, mrs. clarke's cookkrv ;: )ok. 243 

SS3. RIBBOIT BLAlTO-ldAlTGB.— InRrfldients— two thirds of 
a package of gelatiuu, 1 pt. of hot milk, G taMospoonfuls of 
sugar, 2 eggs, lemon and vauilla Havoriug, '2 lar^u tablo- 
ipooufuls of grated chocolate. 

Soften the gelatine in tlie milk. Sweeten, and divide the 
milk into three parts. Into the first put the whites of the eggs 
previously beaten to a froth and flavor with lemon. Beat the 
yolks and vanilla flavoring into another part. Then wet the 
chocolate in a little warm water, flavor withv anilla and add to 
the remaininjj third of milk. As each part stiffens, whip with 
an e^ beaten, turn into a wet mould, firbt yellow, then chocolate, 
then white. 

890. OHOOOLATB BLANO-MAlTQE.-Tngredienta-i a pack- 

age of gelatine dissolved in water, 1 pt. milk, 1 cup of grated 
chocolate, 1 cup of sugar. 

Dissolve the gelatine. Let the milk come to a boiling point 
then stir in the sugar and chocolate. Stir until both are dis- 
solved, then set the saucepan on the back partof the stove and 
stir the gelatine in slowly, a little at a time, so that it will be 
thoroughly distributed through the milk. Then pour into cups 
or moulds. This is to be e^itcn cold with sugar and cream. 
Flavor the cream with vanilla. 

891. JATJlTBliIAlTGB.— Ingredients — 1 pint of boiling water 2 oz. 

of isinglass, J pt. of white wine, juice of 2 oranges, 1 lemon, 
sugar to taste, yolks of 8 eggs. 

Dissolve the isinglass in the water, and then add the wine, 
the juice of the oranges and of the lemon, the peel of the lemon 
shred finely, sweeten to taste and aid the yolks of the eggs ; 
let it simmer ;jently, strain and pour into mouldj. Turnout 
the next day. 

892. ALMOUD BLAlTO-lilAlTGB.— Ingredients— 2 pts of milk, 

1 oz. gelatino, H ozs. of sweet almonds, a little orange tlowur 
water, J of a cup of sugar. 

Soak the gelatine in a cup of cold milk for three quarters of an 
hour. Put the milk on the fire until it is at boiling point. Pour 
in the gelatine, add the almonds (which must previously have 
been blanched and pounded and moistened with the orange 
flower water), and stir all toj;ether for about ten minutes ; then 
add the sugar. As soon as the gelatine is dissolved rrmovc 
from the boiling water in which it has been cooked, and strain 
through muslin. Pour into a welted mould and stand in a 
cool place to get iinu. 



344 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Sweet Dishes. 



S03. OOliIPOTE OF OUAITGES I"Kredtcnts -3 orangcB, 4 07,. 
of Hugar, agiilof water, a Hinall glass of brandy. 

Pare the rind ofTthe oran^^es as thinly as possible, and set it 
on one side ; divide the fruit into halves, remove the pithy 
cord which is in tiie centre, and cut ofTthe rind and pith into 
strips dovvn to the quick, leaving; the halves of the oranges 
transparently bare ; dish these up in a hi^jh compote glasH. 
Throw the rind into the sufjar, boilcid with the water for five 
minutes. Strain this syrup into a basin, add the brandy, pour 
over the compote, and serve. 

891. ORANQB FOOL — Ingredients- j nine of .^ SnviUc oranges, 
well beaten egt;a, ^pt. of croatn, a little nutmeg and cinna- 
mon, white sugar to taste. 

Mix the oran<;e juice with the egfrs, cream and spices. Sweet- 
en to taste. The orange juice must be carefully strained. Set 
the whole over a slow fire, and stir it until it becomes about 
the thickness of melted butter ; it must on no account be al- 
lowed to boil ; then pour into a dish for eating cold. 

S95. GOOSEBERUT FOOL- — Ingredients— 1 quart of goosober- 
ries, water, sugar, 1 quart of cream, macaroons or ratafias. 

Pick one quart of quite young gooseberries, and put them 
into a jar with a very little water and plenty of sugar ; put the 
jar in a saucepan of boiling water till the fruit be qnite tender, 
then beat it throuszh a cullender, and add gradually one quart 
of cream with sufficient sugar to sweeten ; garnish the di^ii 
v,riih macaroons or ratafias. 

896. CHARLOTTE RTJSSE (1). — Incrorlicnts— For a siiinlT 
mould : Savoy biscuitB, A pt. of doul)!i' cream, U teahpooii'.is 
white sugar, rather more tliau^ oz. gelatine, a few drops of 
vanilla llavoring, 1 slice '■•pougecake. 

These are best made in a plain round tin. Take some Savoy 
biscuits, using half at a time, and keeping the rounded side 
next the mould ; form a star at the bottom by cutting them to 
the shape you require to fit into each other ; touch the edges 
of the biscuits lightly with white of egg to hold them together, 
but be very careful not to let the egg touch the mould, or it 
will stick and prevent it from turning out. Having made a 
star for the centre, proceed in the same way to line the sides 
by placing the biscuits standing upright ail round it, their edges 
Klightly overlapping each other: these must also be fastened 
to each other, and to the centre star by a slight application 0/ 
white of egg, after wlrrh the tin must be placed in the oven foj. 
;i few minutes to dry the egg. The cream must be whisked t^ 



SwKErOiMUCS. MRS. CLAftKC's COOKER I BOOK. ^45 



ustifTfro'h with the p eviousl/ melted gelatine, the suj^ar, and 
a few di'i p8 of vani lu flavoring; pour this mixture into the 
mould, covering it wiih a slice uf sponge cake the si/e of the 
mould, to form ft foundai ion wl.tn it is tui ned out ; the biscuits 
forming the sides must have been cut evenly with the top, and 
must be touched lightly with the white of an egg to make them 
adhere to this foundation slice. Place the mould on ice until 
required, then turn it out on a dish and serve at once. This 
requires great care in the turning out. 

897. OSAHLOTTB RTJ3SE (2) -—Ingredients -Tlalf an ounce of 

ittinglaua, 1 pint of milk, sugar and vauilla to tauto, 1 plut of 
oroaiii. Savoy bUuuits, a fttw ratnfiaa. 

Dissolve the isinglass in the m'lk ; whip the cream to a 
strong froth, and when the isinglass and milk have cooled and 
become a little thick, add it to them, pouring the cream with 
force into the bowl, whipping it all the time. Grease a mould 
(which must be scrupulously clean) and place Savoy biscuits 
in each flute ; sprinkle a few ratafias at the top, and when 
nearly cold pour in the mixture. Serve with preserved apricots. 

* 

898. OHAHLOTTE RTJSSE (.'{).— Ingredients— One oz. of gelatine, 

1 pint of milk, 1 egg, flavor 1 qc of cream vtith vauilla and 
•ugar to to'le, lady-lingers. 

Soak the gelatine in the milk for half an hour, then dissolve 
che same by p'icing the vessel containing the gelatine and 
milk in a pot ot liot water, that it may not burn while heating. 
Next, beat the yolk of one egg and pour it into the milk and 
gelatine while hot ; strain it into a bowl and while cooling 
beat it thoroughly ; next flavor the cream with one large 
tcaspoonful of extract of vanilU and sugar to suit the taste, 
, beat the white ol the egg to a stiff froth ; stir the cream and 
egg together and beat to a light froth with an egg-beater ; next 
J jurthe two mixtures together and whip them thoroughly ; pour 

to moulds lined with lady-fingers. Do not pour into moulds 
jntil the mixture is stiff enough to prevent the cakes from ris- 
ing to the surface. 

J»09. A VZET ITI03 THIPLB.— Ingredients— Macaroons and 
ratafias, raiaiu wiue, a ve.nj rich custard, raspberry jam, 
whipped cream, some rich cream, whites of 2 eggs (well 
beaten), sugar, lemon peel. 

Lay the macaroons and ratafias over the bottom of a dish, 
and pour in as much of the raisin wine as they will soak up, 
then pour on them the custard cold ; it must stand two or 
three inches thick ; then put a layer of the jam and cover the 



54^ Mrs. Clarke's cookEkY BOOK. Sweet Dishes. 



whole with a whip (which must have been made the day be - 
fore) in the above proportions. 

eOO. OOOSEBERRY OR APPLE THIPLB.— Ingredients -Ap- 
ples or gooHehcrries, i pint of milk, ^ pint of cream, yolk of 1 
egg, sugar to taste. 
Scald enough of either apples or Kfoscbciries so that when 
pulped through a sieve, will form a thick layer at the bottom 
of your dish. If apples, mix the peel of half a lemon grated 
finely, and to cither of the fruits add sugar to taste ; mix the 
milk, cream, and the yolk of egg; give them a scald over the 
fire, stirring^all the time; do not let it boil ; then add a little 
sugar, and allow to get cold. Lay this mixture over the apples 
with a spoon, and then put on it a whip made the day before. 

901. STEWED APPLES AND RICE.-- Ingredients- Some 

good baking apples, synip, 1 lb. ol sugar to 1 pt. of water. 

iSome shred lemon peel, jam, some well boiled rice. 
Peel the apples, take out the cores with a scoop so as not to 
injure the shape of the apples, put them in a deep baking dish, 
and pour over thcin a syrup made by boiling sugar in the above 
proportion, put a little piece of shred lemon inside each apple, 
and let them bake very slowly until soft, but not in the least 
broken. If the syrup is tiiin, boil it until it is thick encnigh ; 
take out the lemon p;.'el, and put a little jam inside each apple, 
and between each a little heap of well-boiled rice ; pour the 
syrup gently over the apples, and let it cover the rice. This 
dish may be served cither hot or cold. 

902. SPICED APPLES.— Ingredients -4 lbs. of apples (weigh 

them after they are ))celed), 2 11) j. of sugac, ^ an oz. of cinna- 
mon in the stick, J of an oz. of cloves, and 1 pt. of vinegar. 
I^et the vinegar, spices and sugar come to a boil ; then put 
in the whole apples, and cook them until they are so tender 
that a broom-splint will pierce them easily. These will keep 
fi^r a long time in a jar. Put a clean cloth over the top of the 
jar before putting the cover on. 

903. APPLE CHARLOTTE' — Ingredients— Some good cooking 

apples, sugar (1 lb. of apple pulp to J lb. of sugar), lemon 

llavoring, fried bread. 
Bake good cooking apples slowly until done ; scrape out all 
the pulp with a teaspoon, put it in a stewpan in the abovepropor- 
tion ; stir it until the sugar is dissolved and the pulp stiff. Take 
care it does not burn. Add a little lemon flavoring, and place 
the apple in the centre of a dish, arranging thickly and taste- 
fully round it neatly-cut pieces of the carefully-fried bread. If 
it is desired to make this dish very nice, each piece of fried 



SwF.ET Dishes. Mrs. clarkk's cookkry book, 247 



bread may be dipped in apricot jam. Rhubarb Charlotte may 
be made in the same manner. The rhubarb must be boiled 
and stirred until a good deal of the watery portion has evapor- 
ated, and then sugar, half a pound to one pound of fruit, being 
added, it should be allowed to boil until it is thick. 

904. OUAITGE OHIPS. — iDgrcdicnts — Some Seville oranges, 

augar. 
Cut the oranges in halves, squeeze the j jice through a sieve; 
soak the pcol in water ; next dry ; boil in the same till tender, 
drain and slice the peels, pour the juice over them ; take an 
equal weight of sugar, put sugar, peels, and juice into a broad 
earthenware dish, and set it over the fire, not close enough to 
crack the dish, stir frequently until the chips candy ; then set 
them in a cool place to dry, which process will take three 
weeks. 

905. ORAIT&B SOTJFFLE— Ingredients— G oranges, sliced and 

peeled, sugar, custard, yolks of 3 eggs, a pint of milk, sugar 
to taste, grating of oraiii^e peel for flavor, white of the eggs. 
Put into a glass dish a layer of oranges, then one of sugar, 
and so on until all the oranges are used, and let it stand two 
hours ; make a soft boiled custard in the above proportions, 
and pour over the oranges, when cool enough not to break the 
dish. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stifT froth, sweeten to 
taste and pour over the top. Serve cold. 

908. JLOATHTG ISLAND.— Ingredients -U pt. of thin cream, 
J of a pt. of raisin wine, a little lemon juice, oranj^e flower 
water, and sugar to ta^te. 
Mix together, pour into a dish for the middle of the table, 

and put on the cream a froth made as below. 

907. 70X1 PROTH. — Ingredients — J lb. of damson pulp, su-ar to 
taste, the whites of 4 eggs. 

Sweeten the pulp, well whisk the whites, then mix with the 
pulp and beat until it will stand as high as you choose ; put on 
tjie cream with a spoon, it will take any form, it should be 
rough, to imitate a rock. 

Note — Any other sort of scalded fruit will do if desired. 

V.09. DEVONSHIRE JUNSET.— Ingredicnt8-2 qts. of new 

milk, 1^ wineglasses of brandy, 4 dessertspoonfuls of sugar, 

6 dessert spoonfuls of prepared rennet, clotted cream, a little 

nutmeg. 

Just allow the milk to become blood warm, mix in the brandy 

and set in a deep dish, now add the sugar and rennet, stir well 

and put aside to set. When required for use, cover with the 

cream and a sprinkle of nutmeg. 



DESSERT, 



OBSERVATIONS ON FRUITS, S:c. 

Every intelligent person must admit that the Tiee use of 
ripe fruit is one of the greatest promoters of health. But 
it is also obvious that fruits as an exclusive article of diet do 
not meet all the wants of the system. The chemistry of 
the apple, the pear, the tomato, the grape, and other fruits, 
is well understood, and it can be stated how much nutri- 
ment or assimilable food each is capable of affording ; but 
this does not answer all the questions connected wich the 
subject of the healthfulness of fruit. Besides furnishing 
nutriment, fruit exerts other influences upon the animal 
economy of the highest importance. The acids of fiuits 
are not properly nutritive substances, but they produce 
physiological effects of a cooling or corrective nature vvliich 
are highly salutary. Fruits are largely composed of water, 
and this fluid has come to them through extraordinary 
channels. The tiny root fibres have collected it in the dark 
earth, and by vital action it has been forced through the 
most minute tubes, until it is finally deposited in the fruit 
cells. So far as we know, the water undergoes no modi- 
fications ; it is water in the soil, and it is the same in its 
wonderful associations in fruits. It, however, holds saccha- 
rine elements and other principles which modify its physi- 
cal appearance and taste. The great amount of water con- 
tained in fruit is in itself an advantage, as it aids in cleans- 
ing the alimentary canal and other excretory ducts, and 
thus promotes healthy action. 

Fruits are capable of sustaining life for long periods, but 
the lack of the nitrogenous elements detracts from their 
strength-giving power, and any one living exclusively upon 
them would not be able to labor effectively. We have all 
heard of the man who rowed his boat along the entire coast 
of New England, sustained alone by whortleberries ; but if 

248 



Dessert. mrs. clarke's cookery booic 249 



the voyage had lasted six months, or even three, his nerves 
and his muscles would have entirely failed him ; so that to 
argue from all such brief experiments is delusive and unfair. 
If the fruit is largely consumed in connection with a proper 
proportion of animal or nitrogenous foods, a much higher 
standard of health will be attained among all classes. 

Much can be done with a tastily arranged dessert of bright 
bonbons, crackers, dried fruit, apples, pears, oranges and 
nuts. 

Delicate or quaint specimens of old Worcester, Chelsea, 
or Dresden will be found to exercise a most telling effi-ct 
by introducing the proper harmony of colors in connection 
with the shining damask of the table linen, and the spark- 
ling crystal of the glass service, nor can we altogether de- 
preciate the use of colored grasses and artificial flowers. 
Some specimens of the latter which we have seen are so re- 
ally artistic in conception and perfect in execution that, al- 
though abhorring all shams and make-believes, we cannot 
but consider them permissible by way of relieving with 
their gayer tints the somewhat sombre laurel. None of 
these suffer, as do the more delicate fruits of summer and 
autumn, from the baneful fumes of gas, and the heated at- 
mosphere of the rooms. But, with regard to decorations 
suitable to the large festive gatherings and orthodox family 
dinner parties ; in all the varied displays we have seen, 
glass ornaments seem usually to carry off the palm, owing 
to the superior delicacy and refinement of their shapes ; 
china vases and figures, however, have an exceedingly good 
effect. One set of pure white china was very striking, con- 
trasted as it was by a dessert set of exquisitely fine bril- 
liantly colored china. The centre and side vases for the 
flowers were edged with open basket work, and supported 
with graceful figures of boys and maidens; the table was 
lighted with white china candelabras to match, and here 
and there were dotted about pure white baskets in imitation 
wicker work (?lso of china), decked out with gracful ferns 
and dainty sprays of flowers. As for the glass epergnes, 
the tall ones for the centre seem stiil to hold their own, 
and are likely to do so, being so far more elegant than the 
short stumpy ones. 



i$0 MRS. CLAKKe's COOKERY KOOK. DeSSERT. 



Dessert would not be complete without chocolate, in 
different forms, all kinds of delicately flavored cakes, and 
the most costly and recherche wines. A good selection can 
be made from pines, grapes, oranges, apples, figs, melons, 
plums, nectarines, cherries, nuts, etc. See "Sweet Dishes" 
for several other suitable recipes for dessert. 



909. ORANGES. 

Oranges may be prepared for table in the fnllowiiT::^ manner! 
— Cut gently through the peel onlv, from liie point ot the 
orange at the top to dent made at the stalk at the bottom, 
dividing the outside of the orange into cloves or sections, seven 
or eight in number. Loosen the peel carefully, and take each 
section off, leaving it only attached at the bottom. Scrape the 
white off the orange itself, and turn in each section double to 
the bottom of the orange, so that the whole looks like a dahlia 
or some other flower. 

910. ALMONDS AND P-AISINS. 

Serve on a glass dish, the raisins piled high in t'le centre. 
Blanch the almonds and strew over them. 

911. FHOSTED CUEBANTS. 

Froth the white of an egg or eggs, dipping the bunches into 
the mixture. Drain until nearly dry, then roll in white sugar. 
Lay upon white paper to dry. 

912. IMFEOMFTU DESSERT. 

Cover the bottom of a large glass dish with sliced orange ; 
strew over it powdered sugar, then a thick layer of cocoanut. 
Alternate orange and cocoanut till the dish is full, heaping the 
cocoanut on the top. • 

913. DESSERT or APPLES— Ingredients— One lb. of sugar, 1 

lb. of finely flavored ripe soiur apples, 1 pmt of rich cream, 
2 eggs, \ cup of sugar. 

Make a rich syrup of the sugar ; add the apples nicely pared 
and cored. Stew till soft, then mix smoothly with the syrup 
and pour all into a mould. Stir into the cream (or if there is 
none at hand, new milk must answer) the eggs well beaten, 
also the sugar, and let it just boil up in a farina kettle ; then 
set aside to cool. When cold take the apples from the mould 
and pour this cream custard around it and serve. If spice or 
flavoring is agreeable, nutmeg, vanilla, or rose water can be 
used. 



DnsSERt. MRS. ct.arke's cookery book. 251 



914. DISH CP S'lO'S- — Ingi-eclients — One cup of siiL'ar, one third 

of a cup of water, J of a teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 

Let the sugar and water boil until it is a pale brown color ; 
shake the basin in which it is boiling gently, to prevent it burn- 
ing, but do not stir it at all until just before you take it from 
the fire, then stir in the cream of tartar. Wash and cut open 
some figs ; spread them on a platter, then pour the sugar over 
them. Take care to have each fig covered ; set tbem in a cool 
place till the sugar has time to harden. 

915. ADISHOPITITTS. ■ 

Arrange them piled high in the centre of a dish; a few leaves 
around the edge of the dish will greatly improve the appear- 
ance. In dishing filberts serve them with the outer skin on. 
If walnuts, wipe with a damp cloth before serving. 

916. A DISH OP STRAWBERHTES. 

If there are any inferior ones they shouM Ijc placed in the 
bottom of the dish and the others put in rows to form a pyra- 
mid, taking care to place the stalks downwards. A few fern 
leaves placed at the bottom of the dish before building the 
pyramid will add to the good appearance of the dish. N. B. 
Secure the fruit with long stalks as they will support the pyra- 
mid. 

!)17. DISH OF FBEITCH FLT7MS. 

Arrange on a glass dish with highly colored sweet-meats, 
which make a good effect. 

91S. A DISH OP MOULDED PEARS- -I"gre(lient*-5 large 
pears, 7 cloves, water, a little piece of cinnamon, 1 gill of 
raisin wine, a small piece of lemon peel and the juice of i a 
lemon, sugar to taste, ^ oz. of gelatine. 

Put nearly one pint of water into a jar, pare and cut the 
pears into quarters, place them in the jar with spices and sugar 
to taste, cover the jar tightly and bake the pears in a gentle 
oven until tender, do not allow them to be overdone or they 
will break, wash out a mould (plain) and lay in the pears, now 
take half a pint of the juice the pears were stewed in, the wine, 
lemon peel, gelatine, and strained juice,boil five minutes, strain 
and pour over the pears; stand in a cool place, and when firm 
serve on a glass dish. 

919. APPLE Q-IITQ-ER. — Ingredients— 2 lbs. white sagar, 2 lbs. 
hard apples, nearly 1 qt. water, 1 oz. of tincture of ginger. 

Make a rich syrup of the sugar and water, adding, as soon as 



a5« MRS. Clarke's cookerv book.. DiviSKkr. 

it boils, the ginger. Pare, core, and cut the apples into quarters 
or pieces to suit the fancy plut.ging into cold water to preserve 
the color, then boil in the syrup until transparent. Great care 
must be taken that they do not break, as this would spoil the 
appearance. Place in jars and cover with the syrup, put into 
glass bottles and seal air-tight. It is then ready at any time 
for dessert. 

920. A DISS OF MIZED FBTJITS. 

Select a handsome dish, put a table glass in the centre, cover 
with moss or leaves. Place a nice pine-apple upon the top of 
the glass, and round it apples or pears with leaves between, 
then plums mingled with grapes. Much taste can be displayed 
in the arrangement of the fruit. 

921. OOMPOTB OP FRTJIT— Ingredients— Equal quantities of 

red and white currants, i-aspberries, and very ripo cherries, 
white sugar, a wineglassful of pale brandy, sponge cake. 

Remove the stalks and stones from the cherries, and pick the 
currants carefully, sprinkle plenty of white su<,'ar over the 
fruit, add the brandy. Toss them lightly until the sugar is 
dissolved. Serve within a border of sponge cake. 

922. STIIA'W3EZIRIE3 AITD OHEA^. 

Pick the fruit carefully (which should be ripe, but not too 
much so), and put into a dessert dish, sprinkle two tablespoon- 
fuls of white sugar over, then pour over the cream, allowing one 
pint to every three pints of fruit. 

923. TO FEOST LEAVES. 

Free from all moisture the leaves, by wiping them with a 
clean cloth. Lay them upon a dish near the fire to get dry, 
(not too close or they will shrivel), oil a little butter, and dip 
them into it, sprinkle a little powdered sugar over them, and 
dry near the fire. This is pretty for garnishing dessert. 



COLORINGS FOR CONFECTIONERY. 



924. Pink Color. — You may make a pink color with either 
archil, lake, Dutch pink, or rose pink. Take as much of either 
of them as will be enough for your purpose, and moisten it 
with spirits of wine ; grind it on a marble slab, till quite fine, 
and add spirits of wine, or gin, till it is of the thickness of 
cream. 

925 Red. — Red coler is made with cochineal. Grind half an 
ounce of cochineal fine enough to go through a wire sieve, put 
into ' 'wo-quart copper pan, half an ounce of salts of worm- 
WL and half a pint of cold spring water ; put the cochineal 
into it, and put it over a clear fire ; let them boil together for 
about a minute ; mix in three quarters of an ounce of cream of 
tartar, and let it boil again ; as soon as it boils, take it off, and 
put in of powdered roche-alum rather less than half a teaspoon- 
ful ; stir it well together, and strain into a bottle ; put in a lump 
of sugar, to keep it ; cork it up, and put it by for use. 

926. Cherry Red. — Boil an ounce of cudbear in three half 
pints of water over a slow fire, till reduced to a pint, then add 
an ounce of cream of tartar, and let them simmer again. When 
cold, strain them, add an ounce and a half of spirits of wine to 
it, and bottle for use ; this is rendered red when mixed with 
acid, and green with alkali ; it is not a good color, and Dutch 
grappe madder may be substituted for it ; take two ounces, tie 
it in a cloth and beat it in a mortar with a pint of water, pour 
this off and repeat the same operation until you have used four 
or five pintS) when the whole of the color will be extracted ; 
then boil it for ten minutes, and add one ounce of alum dis- 
solved in a pint of water, and one ounce and a half of oil of 
tartar ; let it settle, and wash the sediment with water ; pour 
this off and dry it, and mix some of it with a little spirits of 
wine or gin. 

A tincture made by pouring hot water over sliced beet-root, 
will give a good red for ices and jellies. 

927. Blue. — Dissolve a little indigo in warm water, or pjat a 
little warm water into a plate, and rub an indigo stone on it till 
you have sufficient for your purpose. This will do for ices, &c. 

«S3 



254 '^iR'^- cr .\RKi:'s cookkry book. Colorings. 

But to use indigo for sugars, you must first grind as much as 
you will require as fine as you can on a stone, or in a mortar, 
and then dissolve it in yin or spirits of wine, till of the tint you 
wish. 

You also make a good blue by grinding Prussian or Antwerp 
Blue fine on a marble slab, and mixing it with water. 

928. Yellow. — You may get a yellow by dissolving turmeric, 
or saffron, in water or rectified spirits of w4ne. 'lincture of 
saffron is used for coloring ices, &c. The roots of barberries 
prepared with alum and cream of tartar, as for making a green, 
will also make a transparent yellow for sug;irs, &c. Saffron or 
turmeric, may be used in like manner. 

929. Green. — Boil an ounce of fustic, a quarter of an ounce of 
turmeric, two drams of good clear alum, and two drams of 
cream of tartar, in half a pint of water, over a slow fire, till 
one third of the water is wasted ; add the tartar first, and last- 
ly the alum ; pound a dram of indigo in a mortar, till quite fine 
and then dissolve it in half an ounce of spirits of wine. When 
the ingredients you have boiled (and which make a bright 
yellow) are cold, strain the solution of indigo, and mix it wuth 
them. You will have a beautiful transparent green, strain it, 
and put it into a bottle, stop the bottle well, and put it by for 
use. You may make it darker or lighter by using more or less 
indigo. This may be used for coloring boiled or other sugars, 
or any preparation in ornamental confectionery. 

A good greeu for coloring ices, Ac. may be made as follows : 
Carefully trim the leaves of some spinach, and boil them in a 
very little water for about a minute, then strain the water clear 
off, and it will be fit for use. 

930. Brown. — Burnt umber, ground on a marble slab with 
water, will make a good brown color, and you need not use 
much to obtain the tint you require. Burnt sugar will also 
answer the same purpose. 



V 



ICES, CREAMS, &c. 



1^1 . OOPrSE ICE CRBAM— Ingrctlienta — 5 oz. of coffee berries, 
a breakuat cup of milk, 2 of cream, a tableapoonf ul of arrow- 
rjot, i lb. of sugar. 

Add the cream and milk together and boil, then pour into a 
can. While this has been goin;^ on, let the coffee berries be 
put on a tin in the oven for five or six minutes ; then put th^m 
with the cream. Leave to cool and then strain through a sieve 
and add the remainin;^ ingredients. Boil again (stirring all the 
time) until it thickens. Freeze in the usual way. 

932. CHOOOLAT'S lOE OEEAM— Ingredients— 6 tablespoonfuls 

of grated chocolate, 2 breakfast cups of cream, I of fresh 
milk, and ^ lb. of sugar. 

Stir the ohocolate into the milk, mixing well, add remaining 
ingredients and freeze. 

933. ICE QUE AM. — Ingredients — IJ lbs of any kind of preserved 

fruit, 1 qt. of cream, juice of two lemons, sugar to taste. 

Take the whole of the ingredients, and work through a sieve. 
Then freeze in a freezing can, and work until it is frozen. Then 
turn out and serve. 

034. ITALIAIT ICE CUE ALU- — Ingredients— One qt. of cream 
juice and peel of two lemons, 1 small wineglass of brandy, J 
lb. of sugar. 

Add the sugar to the cream, and beat in the lemons by de- 
grees. Add the brandy and Ireeze in a patent freezer. 

935. ANOTHEH ICE CREAM— Ingredients— l quart of milk 2 
eggs, J lb. of sugar, 2 tablcspooufuls of corn starch or arrow- 
root, 1 qt. of cicaui. 

Scald the milk, yolks of eggs, sugar, and corn starch or 
arrowroot, until it is of the consistency of custard. Then allow 
to cool. When cool add the cream whipped, and the whites of 
the eggs whisked to a stiff froih. Sweeten to taste, flavor, and 
freeze in the usual way. 

255 



256 MRS. CLARKE'S COOKERY BOOK. TCES. &C 



21E0IFZ3 FOE ICAZHTQ ICE OHEAM, FHXriT, A2TD 

WJlTEK, IOE. 

Note. — When pure cream is used, half the number of quarts 
that the can will hold will be sufTicient, as the beater will make 
it light and spongy so that it will nearly fill the can. In using 
milk the can may be three-fourths filled. 

936. Dissolve in two quarts of pure fresh cream, 12 to 14 oz. of 
best white sugar; flavor as given below, strain into the freez- 
ing can and freeze according to above directions. 

937. Makirtf^Tce Creavi from Milk. — Bring two quarts rich milk 
to a boiling point ; stir in two tablespoonfuls of arrowroot or 
Corn starch, previously rubbed smooth in a cupful of cold milk. 
Remove from the fire and add four eggs and three quarters of 
a pound of sugar well beaten together ; stir all well together and 
then set aside to cooL Flavor and freeze as before directed. 



7LAV0ES. 

938. Vanilla. — One tablespoonful of good extract of Vanilla. 

939. Lemon. — Abont three teaspoonfuls each of extract of 
f^emon and Lemon juice. 

940. Bisque. — Add about two handfuls of powdered sifted dry 
sponge cake and a dessert spoonful of extract ot Nectarine. 

941. Chocolate Ice Cream. — Melt in a porcelain dish two 
ounces of Baker's chocolate, and about three ounces of water 
and four ounces of fine white sugar, dissolve and strain into 
the cream in freezing can, and proceed as directed above. 

942. Fruit Ice Cream. — To two quarts of cream add about one 
quart of juice of such fruits as cherry, currant, strawberry, 
peach, crange, etc., finely strained, and one and a half pounds 
of fine white sugar, and freeze as above. 

943. Fruit Ices. — Dissolve three pounds of fine white sugar in 
two quarts of water and one quart of finely strained juice of 
any of the above named fruits, and freeze the same as ice 
cream. It reauires more time than the latter, and will not in- 
crease so much rn bulk. For orange and strawberry ices add 
the juice of one large lemon. 

These recipes are kindly furnished us by the '* American 
Machine Co.," Philadelphia, 



IcKS, SlC MKS. CLARKk's COOK.KRV HOOK. 2$ 7 

944. STrSSTITT7TZ VOIX ORSAM. 

Wehavejustmet with the following in an Indian recipe book 
"Beat the white of an egg to a froth, and mix well with it a: 
very small lump of butter. Add it to a hot liquid gradually, so 
that it may not curdle." 

945. BURNT OEEAH (1).— ingredients— One pint of cream, 1 

stick of cinnamon, a little lemon peel, the yolks of 4 eggs, 

sugar to taste. 
Boil the cream with a stickof cinnamon, and lemon peel; take 
it off the fire, and pour it very slowly into the yolks of the eggs, 
stirring till half cold ; sweeten, and take out the spice, &c. ; 
pour it into the dish ; when cold, strew white pounded sugar 
over, and brown it with a salamander. 

946. B7R1TT OESAM (2). 

Make a rich curtard without sugar, boil lemon peel in it. 
When cold sift a good deal of sugar over the whole, and brown 
the top with a salamander. 

947. FARISI3S1T1TS OREAM— Ingredients— One ounce of fine 

iaindass, 1 pt. of tliin cream, 3 oz. of sugar broken into 
small lumps, ^ pt. of rich cream, 8 oz. of the finest apricot 
jam. 
Dissolve the isinglass in the thin cream, and strain it 
through folded muslin ; put it into a clean saucepan with the 
lump sugar, and when it boils add the rich cream ; add it by 
spoonfuls to the apricot jam, which has been passed through 
the sieve when made. Mix the whole smoothly, and put it in- 
to a mould and stir till nearly cold, to prevent the jam sinking 
to the bottom. Put it on ice, and when set turn it out and 
serve. The strained juice of a lemon may be added when mak- 
ng the cream, and is a great improvement. 

948. PHTB APPLE CREAM. — Ingredients— A tin of preserved 

pineapple, 6 oz. of sugar, h pt. of water, 7 slieets of best French 
gelatine dissolved in a little milk, 1 pt. of cream. 

Pound the pineapple in a mortar, add the sugar and water; 
boil for fifteen minutes and press throf-gh a tammy. Dissolve 
the gelatine in a little milk ; whip the cream to a froth ; mix 
the gelatine with the pineapple pulp, then quickly work in the 
cream. Pour the mixture into a mould, and put on ice to set. When 
wanted, dip the mould in hot water and turn out the cream. 

949. DT7T0H OREAId' — Ingredients— Six tablespoonfuls of sift- 

ed sugar, 6 of water, 6 of wine, 6 whole eggs well beaten, 
juice and peel of 1 lemon. 

Boil all together. S rve cold. 

'i . ...... 



«5^ MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Ices, &c. 

960. OARAliCSL OHXAM- — Ingredients— One qt. of rich milk, 
3 yoikit aud 1 whol« egg, caramel, 4 oz of augar, spoonful of 
wat«r. 

Boil the milk and mix in some caramel made in the above 
proportions thus : — Take the sugar and hold it over the fire in 
a spoonful of water until a rich golden color ; beat up the yolks 
and the whole egg together and add to the milk. Pass the 
whole through a hair sieve and put it in a basin in a saucepan 
of boiling water; cook until it thickens. Serve in glasses. 

dSl' STXtATITBERZlT OBSAM. — Ingredients — One pot of good 
strawberry jam, 9 sheets of the best French gelatine, 1 quart 
of cream. 

Take jam, and pass through a tammy, add the gelatine dis- 
solved in a little milk, then add the cream whipped to a froth ; 
put into a mould and lay on ice to set. When wanted dip the 
mottli in hot water and turn out the cream. 

962. LEMOIT 0REA2C (made without oream).— Ingredients- 
Four lemons, 12 tablcapoonfuLs of water, 7 oc of powdered 
white sugar, yolks of 9 eggs. 

Peel the lemons very thinly into the above proportion of 
water, then squeeze the juice into the sugar. Beat the yolks 
thoroughly and add the peel and juice together, beating for 
some time. Then strain into your saucepan, set over a gentle 
fire and stir one way till thick and scalding hot. Do not let it 
boil or it will curdle. Serve in jelly glasses. 

953. BATAFIA OHEAiBiff' — Ingredients — Three or 4 laurel, peach 

of nectarine ^.taves, 1 pint of cream, yoHcs of 3 eggs, bugar to 
taste, and a large spoonful of brandy, a little ratafia. 

Boil the leaves in the cream with a little ratafia. Remove 
the leaves ; beat the yolks of the eggs and strain, then add to 
the mixture. Sweeten to taste, and add the brandy stirred in 
quickly. Scald till thick, stirring all the time. Then pour 
into china dishes and when cold serve. 

954. OUAITQ-S OZIE AM.— Ingredients — One Seville orange, I 

spoonful of the best brandy, 4 oa. of «rhite sugar, yolks of 4 
eggs, 1 pint of boiling cream. 

Boil the rind of the orange very tender ; beat it fine in a 
mortar ; add the brandy, the juice of the orange, the sugar, 
and yolks of the egjjs. Beat all together for ten minutes. 
Then very gradually pour in the cream ; beat till cold. Put 
into custard cups, set into a de 'p dish of boiling water, and 
leave to stand till cold again. Place on the tops small strips 
of oranije paring. 



Ices, ^c mrs. Clarke's cookery book. ij^ 

956. JtASTSSURT OP-T^AM — ingredients— One o/.. of isinglasa 
■havinga, 3 pints uf cream and new milk mixed, ^ pint 
of raepberry juice or ayrup, 1 glass of brandy. 

Boil the isinglass in the crentn and milk until the former is 
dissolved, it will t.ike about fifteen minutes. Strain through a 
hair sieve into a basin, when cool add the raspberry juice or 
syrup to the milk and cream ; stir well, sweeten and add the 
brandy. Whisk until nearly cold ; then put in a mould to get 
quite cold. 

956. BBAlTfiT OZIZAM- -Ingredients— 2 doz. sweet and a few 

bitter alinoudH, a little milk, yolks of S eggs, 2 glasses of 
best brandy, sugar to taste, 1 quart of thin uream. 
Boil the almonds (previously blanching and pounding them 
in the milk). When cold add to it the yolks of the eggs well 
beaten in a little cream, sweeten, and add the brandy. Mix 
well and add the cream ; net over the fire but do not allow to 
boil. Stir one way till it thickens and then pour into cream 
glasses. When cold, serve with or without a ratafia drop in 
each. This cream will keep by scalding the cream previously. 

957. FRBNOH PtlOS OHEAM. — Ingredients— Two tablespoons 

of Fayeux's orema de riz, ^ pint of cold milk, ^ pint of Lot 
milk, 2 oz. of sugar, 2 well-whisked eggs. 

Mix smooth the creme de riz in the cold milk; stir it into 
the hot milk (which must be boiling) in which the sugar has 
been dissolved. St'r over the fire till it boils, then beat in the 
eggs stirring for ten minutes over the fire. Add any flavoring 
and serve either hot or cold. This makes a very nice dish for 
delicate children. 

958. ORTSTAL PALACE OHEAM- Ingredients -A rich cus- 

tard, ^ oz. of ijc.latiiiu dissolved iu a little boiling water, 2 
spongecakes, 2 macaroons, 2 tablespoonfuls of millc. 

Make the custard, dissolve the gelatine and when it is nearly 
cold pour into the custard, which must also be cool ; soak the 
cakes and macaroons in the milk (or if preferred any fruit 
syrup, which must be rich and sweet). Put the cakes into a 
mould and gently pour the cream over them ; let it stand till 
cold. A tew glace cherries may be added. 

959. VELVET OHEAM— Ingredients— One oz of isinglass, ^ pint 

of sherry, juice of a lemon and half the rind, ^ oz. of gela- 
tine, 2 or 3 oz. of sugar, 1 ^ pints of cream. 
Put into a pan all the ingredients except the cream. Let 
them boil till the isinglass is melted. Then strain through mus- 
lin into the cream. Keep stirring until nearly cold, and then 
put int* mouldt. 



26o MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Ices, &c. 



960. 02000LATE OHEAM.— In^^reiHcnta— Yolks of 6 eggs 

(tjtr.iiued), 2 oz. of powered white sugar, 2 oz. of grated 
chocolate, I pt. of milk, 4 sheets of best French gelatine dis- 
Bob'cu In ii little milk, 1 pt. of well-whipped cream. 

Mix lbs yelks of eggs with the sugar and chocolate, add the 
milk; set tiie mixture on the fire in a double saucepan, the 
outer one filled with hot water, and kept stirring till the cream 
thickens ; add the dissolved gelatine and strain it into a basin ; 
put this over ice, stirring till the mixture begins to set, then 
add the well-whipped cream. Put a mould in the ice, pour in 
the cream, cover it with ice, and when quite set, turn it out 
and serve. 

961. OOFFEE OUBAM- — Ingredients— 1 breakfastcupful of made 

coflee, a little more than i pt. of boiled milk, 8 yolks of eggs, 
a pinch of salt, ^ lb. sugar, 2 oz. of dissolved gelatine. 

Put the coffee into a stew pan with the milk ; add the yolks, 
salt and sugar; stir the cream briskly on the fire n, til it be- 
gins to thicken ; stir for a minute longer and then run it through a 
sieve into a basin, add the gelatine, mix and set the cream in 
a mould embedded in rough ice. 

962. LEMOIT CREAM— Ingredients— One pt. of thick cream, 

yo'ks of two eixg>j, 4 07„ of fine sugar, riud of one lemon cut 
thinly, juice of the lemon. 

Well beat the yolks and add to the cream, sugar and rind of 
the lemon ; boil, and then stir it till almost cold ; put the juice 
of the lemon into a dish and pour the cream upon it, stirring 
until quite cold. 

963. LEMOIT CZIEAM SOLID.— Ingredients— Half a pint of 

cream, the juioe of 3 lemons, and the rind of 2, i lb. of loaf 
sugar in small lumps. 

Rub the sugar on the lemons, and lay them at the bottom of 
the dish, pour the lemon juice over, make the cream a little 
warm, then, standing on a chair, and with the dish on the 
ground, pour the cream on so as to froth it. 

964. ALMOITS CUE AM- — Ingredients— 4 oz. of sweet almonds, 

a ft vv bitter almoiulK, a quart of cream, juice of 3 lemoua 
(sweetened), a little orange ilower water. 

Blanch and pound the almonds in a mortar moistening with 
a little orange flower water. Add the cream and the sweetened 
juice of the lemons. Beat to a froth, which take off on the 
shallov/ part of a sieve ; fill glasses with some of the cream 
and fome of the froth. 



Ices, &c. mrs. Clarke's cookery book. 261 

965. TSA OXtHAH' — Ingredients— One quari. of cream, 8om« 

coriander seeds, 2 sticks of cinnamon, ft t co of lemon penl, 
sugar to taste, ^ pi. of some very strong ; -eu tea, whites of 
6 eggs. 

Boil the cream with the spices, lemon peel, and sugar to taste, 
for about ten minutes ; then add the tea, and the whites of the 
the eggs well beaten up. Beat over the fire till it thickens then 
pour into china cups and when cold serve with or without whole 
ratafias on each. 

966. WHIPPED ORDAlff.— Ingredients— Whites of 8 egmi, 1 qt- 

of thick cream, i pt. of wine, sugar to taste, flavor with musk* 

Mix the whites of the eggs with the cream and wine sweeten- 
ing to taste. Add flavoring. Whip it up with a whisk with 
some lemon peel tied up in it. Take the froth with a spoon 
and lay in glasses. It looks nice over tarts. 

967. "WHIPPED CREAM TOR A TRirLB- -Ingredients-One 

pt. of cream, wine, rind and juice of an orange, sugar to taate. 

Put the cream into a freezer and freeze. Whip the cream. 
Mix together the remaining ini^redients and add the cream. 
Then pour into the dish your trifle is to be in, and put the troth 
of the cream over it. 

968. GUT&ER ORBAM— Ingredients- 1 qt. of cream, yolks of 

8 eggs, 2 tablespoon fu Is of syrup, 6 oz. of preserved ginger, 
white sugar to taste, 2 oz. of isinglass shavings, melted and 
strained. 

Cut the ginger into thin slices and mix with the syrup, yolks 
of eggs (well beaten) and the cream. Place in a saucepan over 
the fire not more than ten minutes and stir all the while. Then 
whisk till almost cold, add sugar to taste and the isinglass, and 
serve in cream dish. 

969. TAPIOOA CREAM —Ingredients— Two tablespoonfuls of 

tapioca, 3 eggs, 2 pts. of milk, any flavoring. 

Dissolve the tapioca to a soft pulp, add the yolks of the eggs, 
well beaten, and sugar to taste ; heat the milk to boiling and 
when cold add to the tapioca, etc. whip the whites of the eggs 
lightly and beat all together. Then put it on to boil about ten 
minutes and pour into cream cups. 

970. SNOW SCUFFLE. — Ingredients — Half a package of fine 

gelatine, a uinooth custard, whites of 2 eggs frothed, ^ lb. of 
sugar, juice of 2 lemons. 

Put the gelatine into a pint of boiling water until it is dis> 
solved ; add sugar and lemon juice, stir in the eggs and mix 
thn whole together until it is quite stiff and white* having " 



262 MRS. Clarke's cookery book.' ' Ices, &c 

very good resemblance to snow. Put into a wetted mould, 
leave to cool and set, and serve with the custard round the 

dish. 

!)71. 2i6'9 SOTJPTLS — Ingredients — Five eggs, J lb. of white 
Bugor, any tiuvoring, 3 oz. of butter, and 1 tablespoonful of 
rice-tiour. 

Add to the yolks of the eggs the rice flour, sugar, and flavor- 
ing and mix well together ; add lightly to this mixture the 
whites of ihe eggs well whisked. Put a little butter into a fry- 
ing pan, and as soon as it is quite hot pour in the batter; when 
the omelet is firm, shape and slip on to a well buttered dish ; 
bake in the oven for nearly a quarter ot an liour. Sprinkle with 
powdered sugar and serve instantly. 

972. SOTTPFLB Or BREAD AND "WALITTITS -Ingredients 

— Thirty sound and quite fresh walnuts, 2 oz. of white 
bread crumhs, J lb. of butter, the same quantity of sugar, 
6 eggs, and half a cupful of sweet cream. 

Either pound or grate the walnuts with the fine skin which 
is on them ; soak the bread in milk, and squeeze it, beat the 
butter to cream, and add one after another the yolks of the 
eggs, then the sugar, bread, cream, and nuts, beat all the in- 
gredients well together, and stir in lightly the whites of the eggs 
whipt to a stiff froth. Put into a proper souffle form, and bake 
it an hour, serve the moment it has properly risen. 

973. HOMINY (1). 

Wash it in two or three waters, pour boiling water on it, and 
let it soak for at least ten hours ; then put it into a stewpan, 
allowing two quarts of water to one quart of hominy, and boil 
it slowly four or five hours, or until it is perfectly tender ; then 
drain it, put it into a deep dish, add salt and a piece of butter, 
and serve as a vegetable with meat. 

974. HOMnTT (2). 

Put some water on the fire, and when it boils add a little 
salt ; drop in gradually the hominy, and boil fifteen to twenty 
minutes, stirring well all the time with a wooden spoon ; serve 
with milk or cream. If preferred, it may be boiled in milk in 
the same way. It also makes excellent puddings cooked in 
the same way as rice or tapioca, but it should be well soaked 
before cooking ; it may also be made into shapes, and served 
with jam or custard. 

7^ BIOE SOTTPPLB.— Ingredients— One pint of milk, 6 eggs, 
ji Ik breakfast cup of ground rioe, sugar to taste> a piece &f 



n 



Ices, &c mrs. Clarke's cookery book. 263 

bntter the size of a poach, any Eavoricg that may be pre- 
ferred. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs, whisk the whites to a stiff froth. 
Mix into the rice half a breakfast cup of milk, and when 
smooth put into a stewpan with the rest of the milk and butter, 
Stirling over the fire until it thickens. Now stir into the beat- 
en yolks the mixture, adding a little sugar. (The less sugar 
the lighter the souffle.) Now mix the whites of the eggs to the 
preparation. Put into souffle dish and bake directly ; it will 
take about twenty minutes to half an hour. Remove from the 
oven, brown with a salamander, sift a little sugar over the top, 
pin a napkin round the dish and serve instsintly. 

976. APFLS S07FFLE' — Ingredients— 6 tablespoonfuls of rice, 

2 pints of milk, yolks of 4 and the whites of 6 eggs, butter 
the size of an egg, half the rind ofa lemon, \ lb. of apple 
marmalade. 

Put the milk to boil, throwing in the lemon rind until the 
desired lemon flavor is obtained. After straining, add the 
rice and allow to simmer gently until swollen sufficiently. 
Sweeten to taste. Pound the rice with a wooden beetle until 
it becomes a nice soft pulp ; then line the sides and bottom 
with it neatly and pop it into the oven to get firm. When you 
are sure the rice is perfectly set, turn it out. Beat the yolks 
and add to the marmalade and the butter, and place on the 
fire till it thickens, stirring al! the time. Then remove from 
the fire, add the whites of the eggs, frothed. Mix all well 
with a wooden spoon and pour gently into the rice. Bake 
from twenty-five to thirty minutes by which time the souffle will 
have become very high. Serve immediately after it is cooked. 

977. OSOOOLATS SOTJTPLE.— Ingredients— Eight eggs, \ a 

small teacup of white sugar, 1 dessert spoonful of fiour, 7 oz- 
of chocolate. 

Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately. Grate the 
chocolate, and with the sugar, and flour, add to the yolks and 
stir for seven minutes. When the whites are a stiff froth add 
lightly to the mixture and work nice and smooth. Butter a 
dish and pour the preparation into it ; bake about half an hour. 
Send to table immediately. 

978. AUOTSEB OaOOOLATE SOTTTFLZ-Ingredients-Two 

tablespoonfuls of flour, 2 of powdered white sugar, 2 os. of 
butter, \ pint of milk, yolks of 4 eggs, 2 bars of chocolate, 
whites of the eggs, allowing to each egg 1 tableapoonful of 
sifted sugar. 

Put the flour, sugar, butter and milk into a saucepan, and 



a64 i^'RS. Clarke's cookery book. Ices, &c. 



boil ; let it become nearly cold and stir in the yolks afld choco- 
late. When ready for the oven, add the whites of the cgg» 
beaten to a stiff froth with the above proportion of sugar. 
Bake three iters of an hour. 

979. SldALL OESBSS SOnFFLB— Ingredients— Half oz. of 

fresh butter, 1 tablespoonful of flour, milk, 3 oz. of Par- 
mesan cheese, white pepper, salt, yolks of 3 eggs, whites of 
5 eggs. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour. When the 
two are well mixed put in a little milk, and the Parmesan 
cheese. Stir the mixture on a slow fire till it assumes the ap- 
pearance of thick cream, but be careful not to let it boil ; then 
add some white pepper, mix thoroughly, and if required, add 
a little salt. Keep on stirring the mixture at a moderate heat 
for about ten minutes ; take the saucepan off the fire and stir 
the contents occasionally until quite cold, then stir in the yolks 
of the eggs beaten up with a little milk and strained, and fin- 
ally add the whites whisked to a froth. Half fill some small 
paper cases with the mixture ; put them into the oven to bake 
till done— from ten to fifteen minutes. 

980. SOTJFPLB ALAVIOEHOY QlOt)— Ingredients-One pint 

of milk, i pint of cream, 3 oz. of flour, 5 oz. of white sugar, 
5 eggs, 1 glass of noyeau, 1 glass of brandy, 2 oz. of rata- 
fias, a small piece of chocolate, o oz, of butter. 

Put into a stewpan the milk, cream, butter and sugar ; boil 
these and whilst boiling stir in the flour, and keep stirring 
until the panada is cooked and leaves the sides of the 
stewpan quite clean. Take it off the fire and let it get 
cold, then stir in the yolks of the eggs, noyeau, and the 
brandy, two ounces of ratafias, roughly crushed, and about one 
ounce of grated chocolate, then whisk up the five whites into 
a firm snow, and gently stir in the mixture ; turn it into a but- 
tered mould and steam it for two hours. Serve it very hot, 
with a little sauce made as follows; Quarter pt. of water, a piece 
of cinnamon, two ounces of sugar, and a little red currant 
jelly ; boil these well together and strain, then pour the sauce 
round the pudding souffle. 

081. BOIZiSD OTJSTAHD.—Ingredients— one quart of sweet milk, 
a stick of ciuuamun, rind of one lemon, a few laurel leaves or 
bitter almonds, sugar to taste, yolka of 8 eggs, whites of 4. 

feoil the milk with the cinnamon, lemon rind, and laurel 
leaves or bitter almonds, and sugar. Beat the yolks of the eggs 
♦vith the whites', add a little milk, and strain into another dish, 



Ices, &c. mks. clarke's cookekv houK. ■ 265 

When the milk boils remove from the fire, and strain ; then 
add the egg to it. Return the whole to the saucepan and set 
on the fire, stirring diligently. Let it come to the boiling point, 
then pour into Si}u% and stir till nearly cold. It should be as 
thick as rich cream. Pour into glass, grate a little nutmeg 
over them and serve. 

982. BOILED ALl/IOITD CUSTARD —Ingredients— Four bay 

leaves, 1 pt. of cream, a stick of cinnamon, 1 pt. of milk, 1 
doz. bitter and 2 doz. sweet almonds, 4 whole eggs, 8 yolks of 
eggs, white sugar to taste. 

Put the bay leaves with the cinnamon, cream, and milk into 
a clean saucepan on a slow fire, till they boil. While this is 
doing grate the sweet and bitter almonds into a basin, break in 
the whole eggs and the yolks one by one into a teacup, and as 
you find them good, put them into a basin ; mix in sufficient 
loaf sugar in powder to sweeten it to your palate, whisk all well 
together, and when the milk boils take it off" the fire for a 
minute or two before you pour it in ; mix it well with the 
whisk, and strain it through a hair sieve into the saucepan 
that the cream was boiled in. Put it again on the fire, which 
must be slow, and stir it well till it begins to thicken, (it must not 
boil, or you will spoil it) ; remove it from the fire, and keep stirring 
it well till it is cool, otherwise it may curdle, As soon as it is 
cold, you can put it into the glasses or cups ; grate a little nut- 
meg on the top of each. 

983. ALMOND OITSTARD.— Ingredients— 1 pint of new milk, 

1 cup of pulverized sugar i lb. of almonds blanched and 
pounded, 2 teaspooufuls rose water, the yolks of 4 eggs. 

Stir this over a slow fire until it is of the consistency of 
cream, then remove it quickly and put into a dish. Beat the 
whites with a little sugar added to the froth, and lay on top. 

984. 0EA2T&E OUSTd^D— Ingredients— One Seville orange, 1 

spoonful of the best brandy, 4 oz. white sugar, yolks of 4 
eggs, 1 pt. of boiling cream, preserved orange. 

Boil the rind of half the orange very tender ; beat it in a 
marble mortar very fine ; put to it the brandy and the juice of 
the orange and the sugar with yolks of the eggs. Then pour 
in gradually the boiling cream. Continue beating until cold. 
Pour into custard cups and stand in a dish of hot water. Allow 
thesi to stand until they are set, then take them out and some 
preserved orange on the top and serve 



266 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Ices, &:c 

985. FROZBIT CUSTARD "WITH PRUIT. -Ingredients-Two 

pts. of milk, same of cream, 6 eggs, 3 teacups of sugar, 1 pt. 
of berries, or peaches cut up small. 

Let the milk nearly boil ; beat the yolks of the eggs with the 
sugar and add the milk by degrees. Whip the whites of the 
eggs to a froth and add to the mixture; put all in a saucepan, stir- 
ring till it is a nice thick and smooth custard. When perfect- 
ly cold whisk in the cream and freeze. If the custard is allowed 
to freeze itself, slir in the fruit after the second beating. 

986. OUSTARD- — Ingredients— One and a half quarts rich milk, 

one cup sugar, ^ box gelatine, four eggs, vanilla to taste. 

Dissolve the gelatine in the milk ; add the yolks and sugar; 
let it come to a boil, then remove from the fire. When cool, 
add whites of eggs, etc. Pour into mould. To be eaten with 
cream, if preferred. 

987. BASED OUSTARD.— Ingredients— Some nice pastry, 4 

eggs, 3 gills of new milk, sugar to taste. 

Line a good sized dish with the pastry ; beat the eggs well, 
add slowly the new milk, sweeten to taste; pour on to the 
paste ; bake in a moderate oven. Can be eaten hot or cold. 

988. OTJSTARD (for Cake).— Ingredients— One egg, i pint of 

milk, one teaspoonful of corn starch, 1 tablespoonful ot flour, 
2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Scald the milk, beat the sugar, flour, eggs and corn starch 
together ; add the milk, boil until thick. Flavor, and when 
cold, spread between cake. 

989. APPLE OTJSTARD.— Ingredients— One pint of apple sauce, 

1 pint of sweet milk, 3 eggs. 

Flavor and sweeten to taste. Bake with an under crust. 

990. OHOOOZiATE CT7STAED.— Ingredients — One quart of 

milk, yolks of 6 eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls of sugar, ^ a cup of 
grated vanilla chocolate. 

Boil the ingredients until thick enough, stirring all the time. 
When nearly cold flavor with vanilla. Pour into cups, and 
put the whites of the eggs beaten with some powdered sugar 
on top. 

991. FEEITOS OUSTABD.— Ingredients— One tablespooDful of 

Fecule de pommes de terre, or potato flour, 3 tablespoonfnlB 
of cold milk, 1 pint of boiling milk, 2 oz. of whit« sugar, 
8 eggs, a little flavoring. 



Ices, &c. mrs. clarke's cookery book. 267 

Take the Fecule de pommes de terre, or potato flour, mix it 
smooth with the cold milk, then stir in the boiling milk in 
which the Bugar has been dissolved ; boil the custard gently, 
stirring all the time until the custard becomes thick, then add 
the eggs well beaten, and the flavoring, and stir over the fire 
for four or five minutes. Pour the custard in^o a basin, stirring 
occasionally as it gets cold, to prevent a skin forming at the 
top. Note. — Corn flour may be substituted for the Fecule de 
pommes de ierre, but it is not so delicate or appropriate for 
this purpose. 

992. 0A21A1£&L OTJSTARDS.— Ingrdienta— A handful of loaf 

sugar, 6 eggs (yolks), 1 pint of milk. 

Put the loaf sugar in a saucepan with a little water, and set 
it on the fire until it becomes a dark brown caramel, then add 
some more water (boiling). To produce a dark liquor takestrong 
coffee. Beat up the yolks of the eggs with a little milk ; 
strain, add the milk, (sugar to taste), and as much caramel 
liquor (cold) as will give the mixture the desired color. Pour 
it in a well buttered mould ; put this in a bain marie with cold 
water ; then place the apparatus on a gentle fire, taking care 
that the water does not boil. Half an hour's steaming will set 
the custard, which then turn out and serve. By using the 
whites of one or two eggs in addition to the six yolks, the 
chances of the custard not breaking are made more certain. 

993. S270W 0T7STAZID— Ingredients— Half a package of gela- 

tine, 3 eggs, 1 pt. of milk, 2 teacups of sugar, juice from 1 
lemon. 

Soak the gelatine thoroughly in about two-thirds of a glass 
of water ; pour into a pint of boiling water. Stir till the gela- 
tine 18 perfectly dissolved. Add two-thirds of the sugar and 
lemon juice. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and 
when the gelatine is cold beat it into the whites, a spoonful at 
a time, for at least an hour. Whip steadily, and when firm 
pour into a mould wetted with cold water and set on the re- 
frigerator. In five hours turn into a custard dish. 



PRESERVES. 

OBSERVATIONS ON PRESERVING, 
Fruit for preserving must be gathered in dry weather, and 
should be carefully selected, discarding all bruised fruit, 
and purchasing only that of the largest and finest quality. 
Use only the best white sugar, or the preserve cannot be 
perfect, and nothing is saved. If common sugar is used, it 
causes a greater amount of seem, and of course this must 
be taken off, consequently evaporation reduces the quan- 
tity. In making syrups the sugar must be pounded and 
dissolved in the syrup before setting on the fire; no 
syrups or jellies shouid be boiled too high. Fruits must 
not be put into a thick syrup at first. Fruits preserved 
whole or sliced maybe boiled in a syrup made of two lbs. of 
sugar to every one lb. of water, the quantity of syrup differing 
in some cases, but the general rule is one and a half the 
substance of fruit. We have found the following very good: 
To clarify six pounds of sugar, put into a preserving pan, 
and pour to it five pints of cold spring water ; in another 
pint beat lightly up the white of one small egg, but do not 
froth it very much ; add it to the sugar, and give it a stir 
to mix it well with the whole. Set the pan over a gentle 
fire when the sugar is nearly dissolved, and let the scum 
rise without being disturbed ; when the syrup has boiled 
five minutes take it from the fire, let it stand a couple of 
minutes, and then skim it very clean ; let it boil again, then 
throw in half a cup of cold water, which will bring the re- 
mainder of the scum to the surface ; skim it until it is per- 
fectly clear, strain it through a thin cloth, and it will be 
resi&y for use, or for further boiling. 

All unripe fruit must be rendered quite tender by gentle 
scalding, before it is put into syrup, or it will not iinbibe 
the sugar ; and the syrup must be thin when it is first add- 
ed to it^ and be thickened afterwards by frequent boiling, 

•?68 



i*RESERVES. MRS. CLARKe's COOKERY UOOti. i6g 

or with additional sugar ; or the fruit will shrivel instead of 
becoming plump and clear. A pound of sugar boiled for 
ten minutes in one pint of water will make a very light 
syrup ; but it will gradually thicken if rapidly boiled in an 
uncovered pan. Two pounds of sugar to the pint of water, 
will become thick with a little more than half an hour's 
boiling, or with three or four separate boilings of eight or 
ten minutes each ; if too much reduced it will candy in- 
stead of remaining liquid. 

In making jams many cooks after allowing the proper 
proportion of sugar to the fruit, put into the preserving pan 
without removing stones or skins until after boiling, as the 
flavor is thought to be finer by adopting this method. Glass 
bottles are preferable to any other as they allow inspection 
to detect incipient fermentation, which may be stayed by 
re-boiling. Copper or brass preserving pans are the best 
kind to use, but they require a great deal of care to keep 
clean ; the enamelled are very nice and easily kept in order. 
Jams should be kept in a dry, cool place, and if properly 
made will only require a small round of writing paper, 
oiled, and laid on to fit ; now tie down securely with a sec- 
ond paper brushed over with the white of egg to exclude 
the air. If you should have the least fear of the store closet 
being damp, it would be better for the first paper to be 
dipped in brandy. Inspect them every two or three months. 



994. PLUM JAM. — Ingredients — Allow J lb. of white sugar to 1 
lb. of fruit. 
It is difficult to give the exact quantity of su'^ar to 
be used in plum jam, in fact it entirely depends upon the 
quality of the plums used, therefore your own judgment will 
be necessary. After wei,i;hit)g the plums, halve them and re- 
move the stones; then place on a large dish and sprinkle with 
the sugar, leave them thus for twenty- four hours ; then put into 
a preserving pan and let them simmer gently on the back of 
the stove for about twenty-five or thirty minutes, then boil 
very quickly, for a quarter of an hour, skimming carefully, and 
stirring with a wooden spoon to prevent the jam sticking. It 
greatly improves the jam to put some kernels from the plum 
itones ioto it. 



270 NtUS. C1-ARKE:'s cookery book, pREfifiRVE.'!. 

995. T*-TnP OTTXIBAITT JAM —Ingi«<lient8— Three quarten of a 

lb. of white sugar to every pound of fruit. 
Let the fruit bo very ripe, remove from the stalks with a sil- 
ver fork ; dissolve the sugar over the fire, then put in the cur- 
rants and boil for half an hour, stirring and skimming all the 
time. Put into jars and cover air tight. 

996. SLACZ OXJRr*AlTT JAM.— IJigredients— One gill of water, 

1 lb. of fruit to 1 lb. of sugar. 

Purchase the fruit ripe and dry ; having stripped from the 
stalk which can be done nicely with a silver fork, place them 
and the water into your preserving pan ; boil for ten minutes ; 
then add the sugar, and allow to boil three-quarters of an hour 
from the time it begins to simmer ; keep it constantly stirred ; 
carefully remove the scum. When done pot in the usual man- 
ner. 

997. BASPSZEBT JAM.— Ingredients-Allow 1 lb. of white 

sugar to 1 lb. of fruit, and 2 wineglasses of red currant juioe. 

Directly this fruit is purchased preserve it, if allowed to 
stand the jam and the flavor will not be so good ; place in pre- 
serving pan and.allow,to boil twenty minutes, stirring constant- 
ly ; add the sugar and currant juice and boil for half an hour. 
Be particular to skim well as this will make the jam nice and 
clear. When done, place in pots and cover in the usual man- 
ner. 

998. QOOSEB&BUT JAM-— Ingredients— Some fine fuU-growu 

unripe gooseberries, their weight in sugar, to 1 pt. of liquor 
allow 1 lb. of sugar. 

Cut, and pick out the seeds of the gooseberries; put them in- 
to a pan of water, green, and put them into a sieve to drain ; 
beat them in a marble mortar, with their weight in sugar. Boil 
a quart of them to a mash in a quart of water ; squeeze, and add 
to the liquor, sugar in the above proportions ; then boil and 
skim it, put in your green gooseberries, and having boiled them 
till very thick, clear, and of a nice green, put them into bottles. 

999. DAMSON JAM.— Ingredients— Equal quantities of fruit 

and jelly. 

Choose the fruit without blemish ; remove the stones from 
the fruit, and put it and the sugar into your preserving pan ; 
stir slowly until the sugar is melted, and remove all scum. 
After the jam has begun to simmer, allow it to boil for an hour; 
it is necessary to stir diligently or the jam will burn. When 
done, pot in the usual way. 



Preserves. mr3. clarkl's coork'iv hook. 27! 



1000. 2£T7LBSIII17 JAM- — Ingredients -Some ripo mulberries, 

1 lb. sugar and 1 pint of mulberry juice to every pound of 
picked fruit. 

Boil and skim the sugar with the juice for five minutes after 
the sugar is thoroughly dissolved ; then add the fruit, and boil 
quickly for half an hour, stirring well ; take off the fire, and, if 
quite stiff when cold, it; is done sufficiently, it not, boil for an- 
other quarter of an hour and proceed to bottle in the usual 
way. 

1001. nSVEAUB JAM — Ingredients — Rhubarb, to a pound of 
pulp allow 1 lb. of suear, 1 oz. of sweet almond sblanched and 
chopped, and half a lemon cnt into slices. 

Peel and cut up the rhubarb, boil till reduced to a pulp with 
a very little water, add the sugar, almonds, and lemon ; boil 
for three-quarters of an hour, or an hour ; remove the lemon 
peel, and put it into pots. 

1002. QUEEIT (}IIAF3 JAM.— Ingredients— To 1 lb. of grapr^ 
allow f lb. of sugar 

Pick them carefully, and reject any that are injured ; wash 
them. Put the grapes into a preserving pan, then a layer of 
sugar, than a layer of grapes. Boil on a moderate fire, stirring 
it all the time to prevent its burning, and as the grape stones 
rise take them out with a spoon, so that by the time the fruit 
is sufficiently boiled — about one hour — the stones will all have 
been taken out. Put into jars and cover in the usual way. 

1003. BLAOEBEURT JAM. —Ingredients— To every lb. of 
picked fruit allow 1 lb. of loaf sugar, and ^ lb. of apples 
peeled and cored, and cut quite amalT. 

Boil the fruit for ten minutes, add the sugar, boil, stir, and 
remove all scum ; it will take from half to three-quarters of an 
hour. 

1004. AFBZOOT OR FLT7M JAM.— Ingredients— Take equal 
quantities of fruit and sugar. 

Pound the sugar, pare and cut up with a silver knife some 
ripe apricots, or magnums, remove the stones, lay the fruit in 
a dish, strew over them half the sugar, and leave them till the 
following day ; then boil and skim the remainder of the sugar, 
add the fruit, boil it up quickly, well skimming and stirring for 
twenty minutes ; add the blanched kernels halved, boil for ten 
minutei more, and the jam will be ready to pot« 



272 MkS. CLARKP;*S COOKRkV ttOoK. pRP.SERVEfi. 



lOOo. STEAWBERRY J AW. -Ingredients -To 1 lb. of fnilt 
allow ^ lb. or 1 lb. of uugar, to 4 lbs. of strawberry add 1 
pt. of red currant juice. 

Put the currant juice and strawberries on to boil Tip thirty 
minutes, and stir carefully all the time. Then put in the sugar 
and boil up very quickly for twenty or twenty-five minutes re- 
moving any scum that arises. Put into your jars, covering air 
light. If a pound of sugar is used there will be more jelly. 

1006. STRAWBEERT OR BARBERRY JAM.-In^'rerlients- 

Some lipo but uot too ripe Htrawberries, to evcrj' lb. of fruit 
allow 1 lb. of white sugar and i pt. of currant juico. 

Pick the fruit ; pour the currant juice on the sugar. Boil the 
strawberries for twenty minutes, stirring well with a wooden 
spoon. Add the sugar and currant juice, and boil together on 
a trivet or hot plate for half an hour, carefully removing all the 
scum as it rises. 

1007. OSBRRY JAM-— Ingredients -To 1 lb. of cherries allow 1 
lb. of sugar. 

For this use ripe fruit, but carefully reject any which is 
bruised or over ripe. The Kentish are the best for this purpose, 
having a pleasant acid taste ; other kinds are too sweet for the 
quantity of sugar necessary in preserving frut. To the stoned 
fruit, add the sugar ; it will require stirring occasionally 
from the first, and continuously after it once comes to the boil, 
after which it must continue boiling for three-quarters of an 
hour ; then try a little on a cold plate to see if it sets or jellies ; 
if it does, pour it otf into jars, and set in a cool dry place till 
the following day, when it should be covered down for keeping, 
if not, continue boiling until it will so set. It will not require 
skimming during the process of boiling, the scum will all boil 
away. The easiest way of stoning cherries is to tie a little loop 
of iron wire about the shape of a hairpin, on to a stick the 
length of a pencil ; bind the two eitds lirmly to the stick, leav- 
ing the loop standing up about an fnch long, and slightly bent 
forward. With this the stones are easily extracted. 

1008. OTJIITOE JAM.— Ingredients— To 1 lb. of quinces allow J 
In. of sugar. 

Peel and quarter your quinces, lerwing the seeds in, as they 
readily impart their mucilage to water and thus thicken the 
syrup. Put the fruit and suijar into a preserving pan, and half 
a teacupful of water to moisten the bottom of the pan ; stir the 
fruit and sugar frequently, and when it boils keep it boiling 
rapidly until the fiuit is soft, and a clear red color. It will 



Preserves. mrs. clarke's cookery book. 273 

take about an hour, reckoning from the first boilinjf up. Put 
into jam pots, and cover when cold. 

1009. AFFZiS J^AAC. — Ingredients — Allow to everv 1 lb. of pared 
and cored fruit f lb. of white sugar, the rind of one lemon, 
and juice of half a lemon. 

Having peeled and cored the apples weigh them, and slice 
them very thin. Place in a stone jar and surround with boiling 
water, allow them to boil until tender ; when tender place in 
a preserving pan, add the sugar, grated lemon rind and juice. 
Boil slowly half an hour from the time it begins to simmer, re- 
move the scum, put into jars and cover in the usual manner. 

1010. 0ASZ2T n& PKJSSBUVa.—Ingredienta — Equal quan- 
of fruit and sugar, peel of 1 largo lemon, a little ginger. 

Lay the figs in cold water for twenty four hourB, them simmer 
them till tender; put them again into cold water, and let them 
remain for two days, changing the water each day. If not quite 
soft simmer again, and replace in cold water until next day. 
Take their weight in loaf sugar, and with two-thirds of it make 
a syrup, in which simmer the figs for ten minutes. In two days 
take the third of the sugar, pounded fine, and pour the syrup 
from ihe figs on it. Make a rich syrup with the peel of the 
lemon and a little raw ginger, and boil the figs in it, then mix 
altogether and put into large jam pots. The figs may be cut 
in half, if preferred, after they have simmered until soft. 

1011. PBESBRVED MELOITS — ingredients — Melon, «alt and 
water, best white ginger to taste. To make syrup, 1 qt. of 
water to 1 lb. of white sugar, the rind of 3 lemons, an- 
other 1 lb. of sugar to each quart of syrup. 

Take away the rind and seeds, and cut the melon about the 
size of pieces of ginger. Put them in strong salt and water, 
and let them remain for ten days, when it must be poured off, 
and fresh water put instead ; this must be changed twice daily 
for three or four days till all taste of salt is gone from the 
melon. Scrape the outside off the best white ginger (the 
quantity according to taste), put it into a thin syrup made of 
the above proportions of water and sugar, drain the fruit, and 
pour the syrup and ginger over it boiling hot. Repeat this for 
three days, then add another pound of sugar to each quart of 
syrup ; when boiled and skimmed add the rind of three lemons, 
cut lengthwise to each quart, put in the melons, and simmer 
until clear. After the first day's simmering the ginger may be 
sliced to impart more flavor, but it must not be allowed to boil. 



a74 MRS. CLARKE'S COOKERY BOOK. PRESERVES. 



The syrup, when done, must be rich and thick. It is better when 
kept a year. 

1012. TO PRBSBR'TIS OITRON".— Ingredients— Citrons, sugar, 

and water. 

Purchase fine citrons, pare and slice one inch thick, cut 
again into strips, remove the seeds, weigh, and allow one lb. of 
sugar to one lb. of fruit. Make a syrup, say five lbs. of sugar, 
half pint of water ; when boiling add the fruit and boi4 three- 
quarters of an hour, icc.: if done by piercing with a broom 
straw, and a few minutes before removing from the fire slice 
and seed a lemon, and with one root of ginger put into preserv- 
ing pan, pot and cover air tight. 

1013. PRESBRVED PTJMPSIITS.- Ingredieuts - Equal pro- 
portions of sugar and pumpkin, 1 gill of lemon juice. 

Cut the pumpkin in two, peel and remove the seeJ, cut in 
pieces about the size of a fifty-cent piece, after weighing 
place in a deep vessel in layers, first sprinkling a layer of sugar 
then of pumpkin and so on, until it is finished ; nowadd the lemon 
juice and set aside for three days ; now for every three pounds 
of sugar add half pint of water and boil until tender. Pour into 
a pan, setting aside for six days, pour off the syrup and boil 
until thick, skim and add the pumpkin while boiling ; bottle in 
the usual manner. 

1014. QTJINOBS PRBSBRVED "W^OLB.— Ingredients— Some 

ripe quinces, to every pint of ^vater allow 3 lbs. of white 

sugar. 
Pare the quinces and put them into the preserving pan, three- 
parts covered with cold water (if they should float while the 
water is being poured on them, press them down with a plate 
until you have gauged the exact height of the water) ; take out 
the quinces, measure the water and add the sugar. Let this boil 
rapidly in the preserving-pan for five minutes, and then put in 
the quinces. The syrup should not cover them at first, but 
when they are half-cooked it will then amply cover the Iruit. 
Boil the quinces rapidly, until soft enough for a knitting-needle 
to pierce them easily, which should be \v an hour and a half, 
reckoning from the first boiling up. Take the quinces out care- 
fully, so as not to break them, and lay them on dishes to cool. 
Run the syrup through ajelly bag,or a piece of new flannel, put in 
a gravy strainer : this frees it of all odd little bits that may boil 
from the outside of the quinces, and makes it clearer. Put the 
the syrup back in the preserving-pan, and boil it rapidly 
until it will jelly when dropped on a plate; put the quinces in- 



Preserves. mrs. clarke's cookery book. 275 

to the boiling syrup, and let them simmer gently for ten 
minutes. Place each quince carefully in wide-necked jars, 
pour the hot syrup over them, and when cold cover in the 
usual way. 

1015. PRESBH.YBD ORAITGES— Ingredients— any number of 
oranges, with rather more then their weight in sugar, allow 
rathsr more than half a pint of water to each pound of sugar. 

Slightly grate and score the oranges round and round with a 
knife, but not very deeply. Put ihem into cold water for three 
days, changing the water twice each day. Tie them up in a 
cloth and boil ihom until they are quite soft, that is, soft 
enough to be penetrated by the head of a pin. While they are 
boiling place the sugar an the fire with the water ; let it boil 
for a few minutes, then strain it through muslin. Put the 
oranges into the syrup and boil till it jellies and is of a yellow 
color. Try the syrup by putting some to cool ; it should not 
be t stiff. The syrup need not cover the oranges completely, 
but uiey must be turned so that each part gets thoroughly done. 
Place the oranges in pots, cover with syrup, and tie down with 
brandied papers. This is an excellent way of preserving oranges 
or shaddocks whole. Only they should be looked at now and 
then, and boiled up again in fresh syrup, if what they are in has 
become too hard, which, however, if they have been properly 
done, will not be the case. They form a nice dish for dessert 
or for serving, filled with whipped cream, or custard, either 
cold or gently warmed through in the syrup in a stewpan. 
Oranges can also be canned in the American fashion in wide- 
mouthed bottles. 

1016. QI7I]^0E liCASfMALADE- — Ingredients — Quinces, to 
every lb. of pulpal Dw 2 lbs. of sugar. 

Rub off all the down from the quinces, and cut off the tops 
and stalks. Put the quinces in a preserving pan with plenty of 
water and boil till they are soft ; then remove them from the 
fire, and pass the pulp through a hair sieve, and beat it till it 
is soft and white ; put the sugar on the fire with water, and 
let itjjboil till it is thick, and will fall from the spoon in flakes, 
commonly called feather point. Take the pan off the fire, 
and mix in the pulp ; it is best 1.0 put a little of the augar 
to the pulp, and keep on adding by degrees till it is tolerably 
thin, when it will mix more readily with the larger quantity ol 
sugar ; when all is well mixed, return the pan to the fire, and 
let the mixture get thoroughly warm, but do not allow it to 
boil, and stir all the tinie, or it will get burnt. Put ihe jam 
into jars, and allow them to stand in the sun, fur two or three 



276 MRS. Clarke's COOKERY BOOK. Preservks. 



days, when there ought to be a thick crust on the top. This 
marmalade is very good for colds, aud a spoonful mixed in half 
a glass of wine is considered strengenthing. 

1017. OXtAiraS IfAHMiLZJiSl.— Ingredients— Twelve fair- 
sized Seville oraugea, some spring water, juice of 3 or 4 
oranges, to every pound of peel and juice allow 1^ lbs. of 
white sugar, allow to this amount of sugar, 1^ pts. of water. 

Take the oranges with smooth, highly colored skins, score 
the peel off in quarters, taking with it as much of the white 
skin as you can without breaking the pu!p ; as you remove the 
peel, put it into a basin of spring water ; put it all, when ready, 
into a siewpan, with enough spring water to cover the peel ; 
change the water several times during the boiKng process, and 
when the peel is quite soft and very tender, take it out of the 
pan and drain it on a hair sieve. Spread out the peel, when 
nearly dry, on a pasteboard, and cut it into fine shreds; squeeze 
the oranges, and add the juice of the lemons; then add the 
sugar ; allow to this amount of sugar the above proportion of 
water obtained by washing and straining the pulp ot the oranges. 
Boil and skim carefully fifteen or twenty minutes, then add the 
washed pulp and juice, and boil until it commences to thicken, 
then put in the pulp and boil for twenty or thirty minutes, or 
until it jellies properly. 

1018. AFFLB ICABlCAZiADE-— Ingredients— Some good cook- 
ing apples, f lb. of of fruit, ^ teauupful of water to 6 lbs. 
of sugar, a few cloves, cinnamon or lemon peel for flavor. 

Peel, core, and thinly slice the apples (apples that cook to a 
smooth pulp easily) ; pet the sugar in a preserving pan (a tin 
or iron saucepan will turn them black), with the water ; let it 
gradually melt, and boil it for ten minutes ; then put in the 
sliced apple, and a few cloves, cinnamon, or lemon peel to 
flavor, if liked. Boil rapidly for an houi, skim well, and put in 
jam pots ; it should be quite a smooth pulp, clea;, and a bright 
amber color. Will keep good for twelve months. 

1019. VEGETABLE MARRO'W {vrith. ffinffer).— ingredients- 

A nice firm marrow, to 1 lb. of marrow I lb. of sugar, i lb. 
of bruised ginger, a little lemon peel if liked. 

Peel a nice firm vegetable marrow, and cut it into small 
thick slices, then boil these till they get quite tender ; put the 
slices on a strainer or sieve for twenty-four hours,^ till all the 
water has run out;- weigh it and take an equal quantity of sugar. 
Boil the syrup and ginger in about a pint of cold water ; when 
clear and skimmed, put the marrow in for two or t\)sqc niinutes, 



Preserves, mrs. clarke's cookery book. 277 

and then pour it out into a basin. Do this two or three times 
every two days, boiling only the sy^up, keeping the marrow sep- 
arate, and pouring the boiling syrup on the marrow. This is 
sometimes called '' mock ginger," and is certainly an excellent 
substitute. It will keep well, but requires looking at occasion- 
ally. 

1020. S'WaSlT TOIIATO PIOZUI.— Ingredient8-3i lbs. of 
tomatoes, l;t Iba. of sugar, ^ oz. each of ciunamou mace, and 
eloves mixed, 1 pt. of vinegar. 

Peel and slice the tomatoes, sticking into them the cloves ; 
put altogether into a stewpan and stew an hour. Wh«n done 
paok in glass jars, and pour the syrup over boiling hot. 

1021. S'WBBT P1A.0S PIOZLE.— Ingredients— To 4 Iba. of 
peachea allow 2 Iba. of white sugar, ^ oz. each of mace, cin- 
namon and cloves mixed, and 1 pt. of the best white vinegar. 

Pour scalding water over the peaches and remove the skins 
with a butter knife ; drop into cold water ; stick four cloves in 
•ach peach. Lay the peaches in preserving pan with the 
sugar sprinkled over them ; bring graduilly to the boil, add 
vinegar and spice, boil five or six minutes. Remove the 
peaches and place in bottles. Boil the syrup thick and pour 
over boiling hot. 

1022. 71A0ZZS IIT B2UITDT-— Ingredients— i lb. of sugar to 
I lb. of fruit, brandy. 

Wipe, weigh, and pick the fruit, and have ready the fine sugar 
in fine powder. Put the fruit into an ice pot that shuts very 
close ; throw the sugar over it, and then cover the fruit with 
brandy. Between the top and cover of the pot put a piece of 
double cap-paper. Set the pot into a saucepan of water till the 
brandy be as hot as you can possibly bear to put your finger in, 
but it must not boil. Put the fruit into a jar, and pour the 
brandy on it. When cold, put a bladder over, and tie it down 
tightly. 

1023. BRAITDIXD QUXITOSS.— Ingredients— Half lb. of white 
Bugar t* 1 lb. of fruit, brandy. 

Peel some small ripe quinces, and allow the above propor- 
tion of sugar and fruit ; boil the quinces half an hour in 
barely sufficifcni water to cover them ; drain them, and put 
aside to got cool ; empty the water out of the preserving-pan 
and put in the sugar, moistening it with a little of the water in 
which the quinces were boiled, and let the iugar boil for ten 
minutes ; put in the quinces and let them boil rapidly for half 



ayS MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Preserves. 

an hour. Place them in wide-mouthed jars, as frej from syrup 
as possrble, boil down the syrup until it jellies when dropped 
on a plate, set it aside in a large jug or bowl, and when quite 
cold mix an equal quantity of good brandy with the syrup, and 
pour over the quinces in the jars. Cover closely with paper 
dipped in white of egg. 

1024. aZtATSia I^ SZIAITDT. 

Take some close bunches of grapes, but not too ripe, either 
red or white, and put them into a jar, with a quarter pound of 
sugar candy ; fill the jar with common brandy ; tie it close with 
a bladder, and set in a dry place. Morello cherries are done 
the same w ly. 

)v, 1025. TO ZEEF 0BSS1TI7TS (for Winter use). 

Dry them after removing them from their green husks ; 
put in a box or barrel mixed with, and covered over by, fine 
and dry sand. Three gals, of sand to one gallon of chesnuts. 
If there be maggots in any of the nuts they will come out and 
work up through the sand to get the air, and thus you have the 
chesnuts sweet, sound and fresh. 

1026. TO SSSF 'WAL1TT7TS FBESS- 

Put a dessert spoonful of salt into one quart of water. Put 
the nuts in and let. them stand a day and a night, then with a 
clean cloth rub dry, and store. 



CANNED FRUITS, &c. 



CANNING FRUIT. 
1027. FEAOEES (to Oan). 

First prepare the syrup. For canned fruits, one quart of 
granulated sugar to two quarts of water is the proper propor- 
lion ; to be increased or lessened according to the quantity of 
fruit to be canned, but always twice as much water as sugar. 
Use a porcelain kettle, and, if possible, take care that it is kept 
solely for canning and preserving — nothing else. Have another 
porcelain kettle by the side of the first, for boiling water (about 
three quarts). Put the peaches, a few at a time, into a wire 
basket, such as is used to cook asparagus, etc. See that it is 
perfectly clean and free from rust. Dip them, when in the bas- 
ket, into a pail of boiling water for a moment and transfer 
immediately into a pail of cold water. The skin will then at 
once peel off easily, if not allowed to harden by waiting. This* 
besides being a neat and expeditious way of peeling peaches, 
also saves the best part of the fruit, which is so badly wasted 
in the usual mode of paring fruit. As soon as peeled, halve 
and drop the peaches into boiling ^yate^. and let them simmer 
— not boil hard — till a silver fork can be passed through them 
easily. Then lift each half out separately with a wire spoon 
and fill the can made ready for use ; pour in all the boiling 
syrup which the jar will hold ; leave it a moment for the fruit 
to shrink while filling the next jar ; then add as much more 
boiling syrup as the jar will hold, and cover and screw down 
tightly immediately. Continue in this way, preparing and seal- 
ing only one jar at a time, until all is done. If any syrup is 
left over, add to it the water in which the peaches were sim- 
mered, and a little more su^'ar ; boil it down till it "ropes" 
from the spoon and you have a nice jelly, or, by adding some 
peaches or other fruit, a good dish of marmalade. Peaches or 
other fruit, good, but not quite nice enough for canning, can be 
used up in this way very economically. Peaches to be peeled 
as directed above should not be too green or too ripe, else, in 
the first place, le skin cannot be peeled o£f; or, if too ripe, 
the fruit will fall to pieres. 

279 



28o MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Canned 



1028 (Anotlier way). 

After peeling and halving as above directed, lay a clean 
towel or cloth in the bottom of a steamer over a kettle of boil- 
ing water and put the fruit on it, half filling the steamer. 
Cover tightly and let it steam while making the syrup. When 
that is ready, and thefiuit steamed till a silver fork will pass 
through easily, dip each piece gently into the boiling syrup ; 
then as gently place in the hot jar, and so continue till all 
have been thus scalded and put in the jar. Then ^WJull with 
syrup, cover and seal immediatel). While filling, be sure and 
keep the jars hot. 

1029. (Anotlier way). 

Peel, halve, remove the stones, and prepare the syrup as 
directed ; and when it is boiling drop in enough fruit for one 
Jar ; watch closely, and the instant they are sufficiently tender, 
take out each half with care and put into a hot jar till full. 
Then dip in all th« boiling syrup it will hold. Cover tightly, 
set aside, and prepare for the next jar. Be sure and skim the 
syrup each time before adding more fruit. After jars are filled 
and the covers screwed on, before setting them away, every 
little while give the screw another twist until it cannot be 
moved farther. 

1030. FXAHS. 

The skin will not peel off so easily as the poach by dipping 
them in boiling water, but it will loosen or soften enough to be 
taken off with less waste of the fruit than if pared without 
scalding. Prepare the syrup and proceed as for peaches. 
They will require longer cooking ; but as soon as a silv&r or 
well-plated fork will pass through easily, they are done. 
Longer cooking destroys the flavor. 

1031. FIITE APPLES. 

Pare very carefully with a silver or plated knife, as steel in- 
jures all fruit. With the sharp point of the knife dig out as 
neatly and with as little waste as possible, all ftie " eyes " and 
black specks, then cut out each of the sections in which the 
" eyes" were, in solid pieces clear down to the core. By doing 
this all the real fruit is savsd, leaving the core a hard, round 
woody substance, but it contains considerable juice. Take 
this core and wring it with the hands as one wrings a cloth, till 
all thejuice is extracted, then throw it away. Put the juice 
thus saved into the syrup ; let it boil up five minutes, skim till 
clear, then add the fruit. Boil as short a time as possible, and 
have the flesh tender. The pineapple loses flavor by over- 



Fruits mrs. clarke's cookery rook. 281 

cooking more readily than any other fruit. Fill into well- 
heated iars, add all the syrup the jar will hold ; cover and 
screw down as soon as possible. 

1032. FLVICS. 

Plums should be wiped with a soft cloth or dusted, never 
washed. Have the syrup all ready, prick each plum with a 
silver fork to prevent the skin from bursting, and put them 
into the syrup. Boil from eight to ten minutes, judging by the 
size of the fruit. Dip carefully into the hot jars, fill full, and 
screw on the cover immediately. Cherries may be put up in 
the same way. — Bcecher. 



1033 FEARS (Oanaed)- — ingredients — Bartlett pears, 1 quart of 
fruit, 1 pint of water, J lb. of white sugar. 

Ma'-; the syrup and set on the stove to boil, peel the pears 
and plung* into cold water as soon as pared ; when the syrup 
boils put the pears in, and boil until you can pierce them easi- 
ly with a piece of broom straw ; dip the cans in hot water, put 
in the fruit, pour boiling syrup over and seal. 

1034. PLUMS (Oaiinod)-— Ingredients— Syrup, 2 wineglasses of 
water and \ lb. of sugar to each 3 quarts of fruit. 

When the sugar is melted and the water luke-warm put the 
plums in. Let it come slowly to the boil. Let them hoW j^enfly 
for five minutes. Put the plums into bottles, yf// them with the 
boiling syrup (take care that there is as much syrup in the 
bottles as they will hold). Screw up immediately and set in a 
dark dry place. 

1035. STRAT^BBRRIBS (Oanllsl)-— ingredients— Allow to each 

1 lb. of fruit I lb. of sugar. 

Put berries and sugar into a large flat dish and allo\r* to 
stand about four hours, then draw off the juice and put mto 
preserving pan and allow to come to a boil, removing the scum 
as it rises ; then put in the berries, and let them come to aboil. 
Put into warm bottles and seal quickly. 

1036. OHERRIBS (Oannod)-— Ingredients— To every 1 lb. of 
fruit i lb. ot Hugar, 3 gills of water. 

Put the sugar and water on the fire to heat, and as soon as it 
comes to a boil put in the cherries and only allow them to scaJd 
for a quarter of an hour ; put into bottles boilini? hot and seal. 
A few of the kernels put in to scald with the fruit imparts a 
fine flavor. Note — Be sure to skim well. 



aSa Mks. clarke's cookery book. Canned 

1037. FEAOSSSS (OannoA).— Ingrcdicnta— To every 1 Ih. of fruit 
allow 5 ox. of Bugar, 1 gill of water. 

Pour hot water over the peaches and the «kin will come off; 
drop into cold water to prevent them changing color As soon 
as the syrup has come to a boil, put in the peaches and allow 
them them to boil till tender. Try them with a broom straw 
and if tender place in hot bottles, pour over the boiling syrup 
to nearly running over and seal immediately. Note — Care 
must be taken that they are not over boiled or they will break. 

1038. TO BOTTZiB FZIT7ZT- — Ingredients — Any fresh fruit, large- 
mouthed bottles, new corks. 

Secure the fruit not very ripe and picked on a fine day; have 
the bottles clean and dry, put in the fruit, cover with pieces of 
bladder tied securely, stand them in a boiler with cold water 
to the necks, put the boiler on the fire, and allow to boil ; aa 
soon as the bladders begin to swell, pierce them with a large 
pin. Now let the fire out and allow the bottles to stand until 
cold. The following day remove the bladders and fill up the 
bottles with sugar. Be careful to have the corks close at hand, 
and just before corking hold a couple of lighted matches in the 
mouth of the bottle, and, before the gas has had time to escape, 
cork and cover with resin. 

1039. aBSSIT aOOSESEZmiES (To Bottle). 

Top and tail the gooseberries, and then "fill wide-mouthed 
bottles, shaking them down till no more can be put in ; then 
tie down with damp (not wet) bladder, and place the bottles, 
surrounded by hay, in a boiler of cold water, over a slow fire ; 
let them simmer till reduced about one-third, then take the 
boiler off the fire, and let the bottles remain in it till quite cold. 

1040. STOOTS TRTJITS (To Bottle).- 

For this purpose wide-necked glass bottles must be used. 
Fill them with the fruit, as closely packed as possible, and into 
the mouth of each put quaiter pound of finely powdered white 
sugar. Tie a piece of wet bladder, tightly stretched, over each 
mouth, to exclude the air ; place them in a large fish kettle, 
packing them with hay, which should surround each bottle, and 
line the sides of the kettle, to pr'^vent their either touching it or 
each ot-her ; this will prevent their breaking ; fill the kettle 
with water, which must not come quite up t« the bladder 
coverings ; place it on the fire, or if a very hot one, to the side 
will be better, letting it simmer until you see that the fruit is 
cooked, by which time it will have considerably sunk in the 
bottles ; the kettle must then be removed from the the fire, but 



Fruits. mrs. clarke's cookery book. 283 

the bottles must not be taken from it until the water is perfect- 
ly cold. During the time the kettle is on the fire, the bladders 
will require frequent moistening with a little water to prevent 
them from bursting ; should this happen, at once tie on a fresh 
piece of wet bladder. The bottles must be wiped dry after re. 
moving from the water, and should be kept in a dry, cool 
place. The bladders must never be taken off till the fruit is 
required for use, as it will not keep after the bottle has been 
once opened. 

1041 feahs fob dessset. 

Take the finest pears just ripe, just cover with water, simmer 
till tender, but not in the least broken ; lift them out into cold 
water. Now measure the water you have simmered them in ; 
to each half pint put one pound of sugar. Boil up the syrup, then 
simmer the pears for five minutes ; repeat this for three days, 
but allow ten minutes simmering th.» last day. Keep the pears 
in the syrup ; the day before any -iire wanted remove from it 
and dry in a very ceol oven. Or you may stew pears in a 
syrup of five oz. sugar, six cloves, six allspice, half pint water, 
and half pint port wine. This is the proportion for eight large 
pears. Pure claret may be used instead of wine and water. 
Simmer slowly till tender, probably three hours. A few drops 
of cochineal improve the color if water has been used. Pears 
and plumbs in equal quantities, with a few of the kernels of 
the latter chopped, preserve beautifully in the above syrup. 

1042. SYRUP (1). 

Take of sugar ten pounds ; water three pints. Dissolve the 
sugar in the water with a gentle heat. 

1043. STRUP (2). 

Take of pure sugar ten pounds ; boiling water three pints. 
Dissolve the sugar in the water with the aid of a gentle heat. 

1044. SYRUP (3). 

In making syrups, for which neither the weight of the sugar 
nor the mode of dissolving it is specified, the following rule is 
to be observed : — Take of refined sugar reduced to a fine 
powder, twenty-nine ounces ; the liquor prescribed one pint. 
Add the sugar by degrees, and digest with a moderate heat, in 
a close vessel, until it is dissolved, frequently stirring it ; set 
the solution aside for twenty-four hours, take off the scum, and 
pour off the syrup from the feces, if there be any. 

1046. SYRUP (4). 

Take of sugar two and a half pounds ; water a pint. Dis- 
solve the sugar in the water with the aid of heat, remove any 
scum which may form, and strain the solution while hot. 



JELLIES. 



OBSERVATIONS ON JELLIES. 

Jelly is usually made from calves' feet or gelatine ; made 
from the latter, the process is simple ; made from the former, 
it is considered more nutritioos and takes a longer time in 
the preparation, and it is also more expensive. The stock 
should be made the day before the jelly is required, while 
gelatine needs only to be dissolved When veai is in season 
calves' feet will be cheap ; they are usually sold scalded, 
but they will need blanching before using. The first oper- 
ation will be to divide the foot into four pieces through 
the joints between the hoofs, and sawing the bone in two. 
Place in a stewpan with enough cold water to cover them ; 
allow them to come to the boil (this is blanching). Re- 
move from the stewpan, wash in cold water, and having 
thrown away the water they were boiled in, wash oat the 
stewpan and replace the pieces. Cover with two quarts 
and one pint of cold water ; allow it to come gradually to a 
boil. Remove the scum as it rises (be very particular about 
the skimming). Let it simmer about six hours ; this done 
strain through a hair sieve and set aside to get cold. The 
following day remove any fat there may be on the top (be 
careful to remove every particle). It is ready now to be 
cleared and flavored. Place in a stewpan ; take two lem- 
ons, pare off the rind (in paring the rind be careful not to 
take any of the white as it would impart a bitter taste). 
Add to the stock ; strain into it also the juice from three 
lemons, and a quarter pound of sugar, four cloves and a 
stick of cinnamon. Now take the whites of two eggs, their 
crushed shells also, and add to the stock. Now stir well 
over the fire till the jelly bails ; remove the pan to the back 
of the stove allowing the cover to be only halfway on. Do 
not touch it for twenty minutes. Then it is ready to clear. 
Dip the jelly bag iato hot water, wring dry, and if in winter 

284 



Jellies. mrs. clarke's cookery book. 285 

place near the fire, if in summer far from it, and drain the 
jelly through the bag, having first placed a vessel to receive 
it. If not clear, drain through a second time. Now add a 
gill of sherry and half a gill of brandy. If a gelatine jelly 
is desired observe the following rules : — In warm weather a 
larger proportion of gelatine will be required for stiffening 
than is necessary in cold, and jelly will set much quicker in 
small moulds than large. It is not wise to make jellies to« 
stiff. They should be stiif enough to retain t^ieir shape and 
yet tremble when touched. A good rule is to allow one 
ounce of gelatine to a pint and a half of liquid. Soak the 
gelatine in enough water to cover it for one and a half hours. 
Now take as much water as it is wise to use and add to the 
gelatine, add also sugar, lemon and flavoring ingredients. 
Place the stewpan over the fire, whisk till it rises ; set it at 
the back of the stove, allow to stand twenty minutes, strain 
through a jelly bag, add the wine and set in moulds. 

A good strainer for jelly may be made by using a wooden 
chair without rails on the inside, turn upside down on a 
table ; take a perfectly clean teacloth, tie the four corners 
to the legs of the chair, setti^ig a basin underneath to re- 
ceive the jelly. The teacloth should be dipped in boiKng 
water before using. Jellies may be strained a third time if 
necessary. 



1046. FBirit JELLIES. 

The fruit should be placed in a jar, and the jar set in a stew- 
pan of warm water,covered and allowed to boil until the fruit is 
broken ; take a strong jelly bag and press a little of the fruit 
at a time, turning out each time the skins ; allow two pounds 
of sugar to one quart of Juice, set on the stove to boil again. 
Many good cooks heat the sugar by placing in the oven and 
stirring now and then to prevent burning. When the juice be- 
gins to boil (watch that it doe's not boil over twenty-five min- 
utes), then add the heated sugar ; stir well and just bring to a 
boil, removie directly from the stove, dip the vessels to contain 
it in hot water, and set them upon a dish cloth wrung out of 
warm water, pouring the boiling liquid into them; cover in the 
usual manner. 



286 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Jellies. 



1047. PllTEAPPLB JELLY.— Ingredients— A moderate sized 
pineapple, 1 qt. of jelly. 

Peel the pineapple, halve lengthwise and cut into thin slices; 
infuse into the jelly the rind of the pineapple (well washed) and 
put first a layer of jelly, and when neany set lay a border of 
pineapple over one upon another forming a ring, and cover 
with jelly, and so on till all are used. 

1048. MITUjBD JELLY- — Ingredients— One tablcspoonful of 
currant or grape jelly, white of 1 egg, a little loaf sugar, i pt. 
of boiling water, a slice of toast or 2 crackers. 

Take the jelly, beat with it the white of the egg and the 
sugar; pour in the boiling water and break in the toast. 

1049. CRAB APPLE JELLY.— Ingredients— Some nice crab 
apples (Siberian are the best for this purpose), 1 ib. of sugar 
to each pint of juice. 

Cut the apples to pieces neither paring nor seeding them, as 
the seeds give a very pleasant flavor to the jelly ; put into a 
stone vessel and place in a pot of hot water ; allow to boil eight 
or nine hours ; cover the vessel (with the fruit in) tightly and 
leave all night ; next morning squeeze out the juice, add the 
sugar hot in the above proportions, stirring rapidly all the 
time, allow it just to come to the boil and remove directly from 
the stove. Dip your jars in hot water and fill with the scalding 
jelly. 

1050. QUIITCE JELLY- — Ingredients — Some ripe quinces, allow- 
ing 1 pt. of water to each pound of fruit, | lb, of sugar to 
each pound of juice. 

Prepare the quinces and put them in water in the above propor- 
tions ; simmer gently till the juice becomes colored, but only 
very pale ; strain the juice through a jelly bag, but do not press 
the fruit, allow it to drain itself. Put the strained juice in a 
preserving pan and boil twenty minutes, then stir in the sugar 
in the above proportions and stir over the fire for twenty min- 
utes, taking off the scum, and pour into glasses to set. It 
should be rich in flavor, but pale and beautifully transparent 
Long boiling injures the color. 

1051. HASPBEimY JELLY— Ingredients — Seme ripe, carefully 

picked raspberries, allow ^ lb. of pounded sugar to every 
pound of fruit. 

Boil the raspberries for ten minutes, strain and weigh the 
juice and add the sugar in the above proportions and boil for 
gftepfli or twenty miputes. Skim and stir well. 



Jellies. mrs. clarke's cookery book. 287 

1052. OHEIIZIT iTTBTiTiT — Ingredients — Maydukes or Kentish 
cherries (allowing | pt. of water to 1 lb. of fruit). 

Boil the cherries in the water, strain the juice and proceed 
as for raspberry jelly. 

1053. RED CITRRAITT JELLY.— Ingredients— ^ed currants, | 
ri). of sugar to 1 lb. of juice. 

Pick the the fruit and simmer it in water for aoout an hour, 
or until the juice flows freely; strain, boil up the juice, add 
the sugar, and bdil again, skimming and stirring well for fifteen 
minutes. Put into small pots, and when cold and firm cover it. 

1054. BLACE: 0T7EZIA1TT JELLY- 

Make in the same way, but use a larger proportion of sugar. 

1055. WHITE OTTRRANT JELLY.— Ingredients.— Fruit, sugar. 
Pick the fruit carefully, weigh it, aud put into the preserving 

pan equal quantities of fruit and sugar. Boil quickly for ten 
minutes, and strain the juice into the pots ; when cold and 
stiff cover them. 

1056. BLAOHBERRY JELLY. 

Make it as directed for red currant, but use only ten ounces 
of sugar to each pound of juice. The addition of a little lemon 
juice is an improvement. 

1057. BARBERRY JELLY- — Ingredients— Barberries, a little 
water, ^ lb. of sugar to every pound of juice. 

Take ripe barberries, carefully reject any spotted or de- 
cayed ones, wash, drain them and strip oft the stalks. Boil 
with a very little water till quite tender, press out and strain 
the juice, boil up the juice, add the sugar, and boil for ten 
minutes, skimming and stirring as above. 

1058. IMEDLAR JELLY. — Ingredients— Some ripe medlars, 
Biigar. 

Put ripe medlars into a jar with a very little water, bruising 
them slightly as you put them in ; tie down the jar, and put it 
into a slow oven for ten or twelve hours. Strain off the juice 
without pressure, weigh it, and allow equal weights of sugar 
and juice. Boil the juice, add the sugar, and boil again, skim- 
ming and stirring well till it jellies. 

1059. GREEN aOOSEBERRY JELLY'— Ingredients-Some 
carefully picked gooseberries (allowing to each pound of fruit 
f pint of water), to every lb. of juice allow 1 Jb. of white 
sifted sugar. 

Boil the fruit in the water, reduce them to a pulp — it will 
take half an hour — strain through a jelly-bag, weigh the sugar 



288 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Jellies. 



in the abo^e proportions ; boil up the juice quickly and add 
the sugar, boil till reduced to a jelly (about twenty minutes), 
skim and stir well ; pour into pots. 

lOGo. nam aoossBSBiiT jilly. 

Make it in the same way as the green, but three-quarters 
pound of sugar will be sufficient lor each pound of juice. In 
straining the juice be careful not to press the fruit. The surplus 
fruit, with the addition of some currant juice, can be made 
into common jam for children, &c. 

1081. UZZXD rUTJIT JELLY.— Ingredients— Fnift, etraw- 
benies, currants, cherries, etc., i lb. of sugar to each 
pound of juice. 

Take ripe fruit, strip off the stalks and remove the stones 
from the cherries, boil altogether fo'r half an hour, strain the 
juice. Boil up the juice, add the sugar in the above proportions, 
stirring well ti^U quite dissolved, boil again for fifteen or twenty 
minutes till it jellies, stirring frequently, and carefully removing 
all scum as it rises. 

1062. QXTZlTCfi JELLY' — Ingredients — Some ripe quinces, to 
cTery lb. of quince allow 1 lb. of crushed sugar. 

Peel, cut up, and core some fine ripe quinces. Put them in 
sufficient cold water to cover them, and stew gently till soft, 
but not red. Strain the juice without pressure, boil the juice 
for twenty minutes, add the sugar acid boil again till it jellies — 
about a quarter of an hour— stir and skim well all the time. 
Strain it again through a napkin, or twice folded muslin, pour 
into pots or moulds, and when cold cover it. The remainder 
of the fruit can be made into marmalade with three-quarters 
pound of sugar, and quarter pound of juicy apples to every 
pound of quinces, or it can be made into compotes or tarts. 

10G3. QXJINOB AITD. APPLE JELLY-Ingredients-equal 
quantities of quinces and applos, to every pound of juice 
allow f lb. of white sugar. 

Stew the fruit separately till tender (the quinces will take 
longer), strain the juice, mix it and add the sugar. Proc^d as 
in quince jelly. 

1064. APPLE JELLY- — Ingredients — Some sound apples, allow 
I lb. of sugar to each pound of juice. 
Peel, core, and quarter some sound apples, and throw thpm 
into cold water as they are done ; boil them till tender, then 
strain the juice from them through a fine sieve,and afterwards 
through a jelly bag — if ne«;essary pass it through twice, as the 



jELLiE5. MRS. Clarke's cookery book. g8^ 

I ^ 

juice should be qu'te dear, boil up the juice, add the sugar, 
stir till melted, and boil for another ten minutes, add the strain- 
ed juiceof a lemon to every one and half pound juice just before 
it is iinished. 

1065. OHAHTaEUSE OF OUAlTaES.— Ingredients -One-half 
pt.of water, 6 oranges, sugar to taate, 1 wineglass of sherry, 2 
oz. isinglass, 1 pt. cream, some sweetened orange juice, 
make a verj^^ clear orange jelly with the water, 4 o'-anges, 
sherry, IJ oz. of isinglass, sugar to taste. 

DiuJe two or three oranges into quarters, and with a sharp 
knife carefully remove from each quarter every particle of okin 
of any sort. Have two plain moulds, one about an inch and a 
quarter more in diameter than the other. Pour a very little 
jelly at the bottom of the larger mould, and place in it a layer 
of orange quarters prepared as above (if too thick, they should 
be split in two lengthwise) ; cover them with more jelly, but 
only put enough to get a smooth surface. Lay this on ice to 
set. When it is nearly firm put the small mould aside the 
large one, taking care to place it exactly in the middle, so that 
the vacant space between the two moulds be of the same width. 
In this vacant space dispose prepared orange quarters, filling 
up the interstices with jelly as you go on, until the whole of 
the space is filled up. Place the mould upon ice and proceed 
to whip a pint of cream with half an ounce of isinglass and 
some sweetened orange juice, which must be added to it a very 
little at a time, else the cream will not rise into a froth. When the 
cream is ready and the jelly set, remove the inner mould by 
pouring warm water into it, and fill up the inner space of the 
chartreuse with the cream. Set it on ice for an hour, turn out 
and serve, 

1066. PEAOH JELLY. 

Pare, stone and slice the peaches, crack some of the stones 
and remove the kernels, put the peaches and kernels into ajar 
and stand the jar in a pot of boiling water, stir frequently press- 
ing the fruit against the sides of the jar; when it is well broken 
strain, and allow the juice of a lemon to every pint of juice, 
mix and allow one pound of sugar to one pint of juice, put the 
juice on to simmer half and hour then add the sugar hct; allow 
it just to come to a boil, and remove from the fire ; allow to get 
cold ; cover with paper soaked in brandy, then with paper 
brushed over with the white of egg. 



29^ MRS. Clarke's cookery book. )kllie1 

1067. ZOELAITD MOSS-— Ingredients— One oz. of Iceland tnoaa, 

1 email teacupful of sugar, 1 quart of water. 
Wash the moss in cold water and set in a vessel of cold 
water to soak all night, when aoaked,, dry in a cloth and place 
in a stewpan with the above proportion of water, allow to boil 
one hour and a quarter stirring frequently, strain and add the 
sugar, serve with milk and wine. 

1068. 3CZLZ JBLLT.— Ingredients- One qt. and 1 gill of milk, 1 
cow heel, sugar to taflte, a small stick uf cinnamon. 

Cut the heel into pieces and place in ajar with the milk and 
cinnamon, cover the lid, tie a paper over the lid tightly, 
place in the oven and allow to stew for three and a half hours; 
strainand sweeten to taste. 

1069. LBMOIT JELLY.— Ingredients— One qt. of calf's foot jelly, 

§ pt. of lemon juice, 10 oz. of fine sugar, thin rinds of 3 
lemons, whites of 5 and the broken shells of 2 eggs. 

Melt the calf's foot jelly, mix with it the lemon juice, sugar 
and rind of lemon with yolks and shells of eggs. Let it boil 
and then simmer ten minutes ; let it stand a little and then 
pour through a jelly bag till all is clear. A pinch of isinglass 
added during the simmering is of great assistance. Pour it 
into a mould when clear, let it stand till set, and then turn out 
in a glass dish. 

1070. ORAITGB JELLY— Ingredients— Rind of 2 Seville, and 2 
Bweet oranges, and 2 lemons, juice of three of each, j lb. of 
lump sugar, ^ pt. of water, 1 qt. of jelly, 2 oz. of isinglass. 

Grate the rind of the fruit, squeeze the juice, and strain it. 
Take the sugar and water and boil it with the juice till it al- 
most candies. Have ready the jelly, add the syrup to it and 
boil it up once, strain the jelly and let it stand some little 
time to settle before it is poured into the mould. 

1071. A 2TI0B JELLY- — Ingredients —Two tablespoonfulsof gum 
arabic, 2 of isinglass, 2 of white sugar candy, a grated nutmeg, 
a pint of Madeira, or port wine, or milk. 

Put all into a jar, and set it by the fire, or in a pan of water 
until dissolved, then pour upon a plate ; cut as desired. 

1072. HAETSHORIT JELLY.— Ingredients— Half lb. of harts- 
horn shavings, 3 quarts of water, i pint of Rhenish wine, 
^ lb. of white sugar, whites of 4 eggs, juice of 4 lemons. 

Boil the hartshorn shavings in the water over a gentle fire 
till it becomes a jelly ; when a little hangs on a spoon it is done 
enough. Strain it hot, put it into a well tinned saucepan and 



jELLtBd. MRS. cLahkb's cookery book. ipt 

add to it the wine and a quarter pound of loaf BURar. Beat 
the whites of the eggs to a froth, and stir suihciently for the 
whites to mix with the jelly. Boil it two or three minutes, 
then add the juice of the lemons and boil it again two minutes 
longer. When it is finelj- curdled and of a pure white, pass it 
through a lineu bag into a basin until it becomes quite clear, 
and has the appearance of a fine amber color. This is a very 
nice dish for invalids. 

1073. IVORY JELLY.— In^'rcdienta— To each lb. of ivory pow- 
der put 3 quarts of water, juice aud rind of 3 lemons, whites 
and ahells of 2 eggs, ^ pint ol good mild beer, and sugar to 
taste. 

Stew the powder and water in an earthen vessel down to 
three pints, which will take about twelve or fourteen hours. 
When cold turn out and take the jelly carefully from the sedi- 
ment. Put the ielly into a clean pan, adding the juice and 
rind of the lemons, eggs, beer and sugar. Stir all well together, 
letting it boil until the sediment rises to the top; remove the 
pan from the fire. Let it stand a few minutes before putting 
it into the jelly bag.^ 

1074. PUNCH JELLY.— Ingredients -Two calves' feet, 4 quarts 
water, sugar to taste, juice and rind of 1 lemon, whites ^^f 3 
eggs whisked to a froth, rum to flavor. 

Take the calves' feet, chop into convenient pieces and put 
them into a saucepan with two quarts of the water. Set the 
saucepan on the fire ; directly the water boils throw it away 
and wash the pieces of feet carefully, then put them on again 
with two more quarts of cold water, and let them boil slowly 
for three hours, removing the scum carefully during the pro- 
cess; then strain the liquor into a basin, and when quite cold 
and set take off all fat and wash the top of the jelly with hot 
water so as to get rid of every vestige of /at. Put the jelly 
into a saucepan on the fire ; directly it is melted add sugar to 
tasie, the juice and rind of the lemon, and the whites of the 
eggs whisked to a froth. Beat up the mixture till it boils. 
Place the thin rind of a lemon at the bottom of a jelly bag, and 
pour the mixture over it. The bag should have been previous- 
ly rinsed in boiling water, and the first half pint of jelly that 
comes through must be returned to the bag. If the jelly does 
not come out quite clear, the operation of straining must be re- 
peated ; add sufficient rum to the clarified jelly to flavor it well, 
pour into a mould and place it on ice to set. At the time of 
serving dip the mould in hot water, and turnout the jelly. 



igi MrS. Clarke's cookerv fiooic. Jellies. 

1076t SVEET WINE JELLY.— Ingredients— One oz. of ising- 
glass dissolved in a pint of water, ^ lb. loaf sugar, a large 
glass of sweet wine {any that you prefer). 

Add the dissolved isinglass to the sugar and simmer for ten 
minutes. Add the wine and mix well. Strain through mus- 
lin. Let it stand a little while to settle, but not long enough 
to get cold, then pour it off clear into a mould. 

1076. AFFLIi JELLY- — Ingredients — One lb. of moist sugar, 1 
lb. of apples, one lemon — the juice of the lemon to be used 
and the rind added — cut very fine. 

Boil the whole until it becomes a perfect jelly; let it stand 
in a mould till quite firm and cold, turn it out and stick it 
with almonds ; set custard round. If for dessert, use a small 
plain mould. 

1077. SAQO JELLY- — Ingredients— Two lbs. of picked red cur- 
rants, 1 pint of cold water, )4 lb. of white sugar, a cupful of 
sago. 

Put the currants into the water and boil till soft, pass them 
through a sieve ; put the juice to boil again with the sugar ; 
when quite boiling add the sago previously soaked in cold 
water ; boil twenty minutes until quite transparent, put into a 
mould and when cold turn out. Servejvvith or without custard 
around it. 

1078. MACEDOIITE de FZ17ZTS a la SELLEE— Ingredients 
- — Some pears, apples, plums, cherries and apricots, or any 
variety of fruit that you choose, a gelatine jelly, a glass of 
champagne. 

Stew the fruit carefully, and cut into pieces ; prepare the 
gelatine jelly and flavor with the champagne ; fill a mould with 
alternate layers of jelly and fruit, and serve after frcezng. If 
the fruit is very ripe it is better not to cook it ; indeed no soft 
fruit, strawberries, etc., ever requires cooking tor a mac(^doine. 

1079. ASPIC JELLY.— Ingredients— Two calves' feet, a little 
salt, 2 lbs. of knuckle of veal, 2 slialots, 35 peppercorns, 2 
sprigs of parsley, I of thyme, 1 leek,jl onion, 4 cloves, 2 car- 
rots, 2 small turnips, 1 small head of celery, the rind of a 
lemon, the juice of 3 lemons, 1 gill of sherry, § of a wine 
glass of French vinegar, 1 sprig of chervil, 1 sprig of tarra- 
gon, 2 bay leaves, the whites of 2 eggs, 1 lb. of veal, 2 
blades of mace, 1 clove of garlic. 

Blanch the calves' feet, as explained in observations on 
jelly, cut the veal from the knuckle, now place the veal bone 
and feet into a stewpan, cover with about two quarts and one 



Jellies. mrs. Clarke's cookery book. 293 

pint of water, set on the fire to boil, it must come slowly to 
the point (be careful to skim), and directly it boils add half a 
teaspoonful of salt, the peppercorns, mace, clove of garlic, 
shalots, thyme, and parsley. Stick the clove in the onions, 
wash the leek and celery in ice water, wash and scrape carrots, 
wash and peel the turnips, now add the ingredients to the 
stewpan, putting in also the tarragon, chervil, and bay leaves, 
allow to simmer six hours. At the end of this time strain 
through a hair sieve ; now set in a cool place and when per- 
fectly cold remove all fat, dip a clean cloth in hot water and 
dab over the jelly to remove every particle of fat. Peel the 
lemon thinly and put the peel into a stewpan, strain the juice 
into it also, whip the whites of the eggs and put them and the 
shells with the veal chopped finely into the stewpan, now add 
the sherry and vineger, salt and pepper to taste, and whip 
thoroughly, put in the jelly stock, whisking until it boils, skim 
if required ; now remove to the back of the stove for half an 
hour, strain, now put a clean basin under the strainer, pour a 
ladlefulof the jelly over the meat left in the strainer and let it 
strain slowly into the basin. If the jelly is required for a border 
scald the mould in boiling water, then in cold, place the mould 
on ice (be sure it stands firmly), pour in sufficient jelly to cover 
the bottom of the mould, when slightly set garnish with vege- 
tables or with what it is to be served ; pou^' the rest of the jelly in 
and allew it to get quite cold. When needed for table, dip the 
mould in hot water and remove instantly, turn on dish and serve. 

1080. OLAHET JELLY.— Ingredients — One bottle of claret, juice 
and riiid of a lemon, 1 pot of red currant jelly, i lb. loafr'sugar, 
rather more than 1 oz. of isinglass, and a wineglass of brandy. 

Boil all together for five minutes, strain into a mould and let 
it get cold. Serve with cream sauce (half pint cream, sweetened, 
flavored with vanilla, and slightly whisked) poured over it. 

1081. ORANBERRT AND RICE JELLT.-- Ingredients— Cran- 

berries, enough boiled giouiid vice to thicken to a jelly, sugar. 

Boil and press the fruit, mix in the rice, stirring it ; sweeten 

to taste. Put into a mould. When set serve with milk or cream. 

1082. A TASTY JELLY. — Ingredients— Half a breakfast cup of 
calf's foot jelly, the same of rich cream, 1 wineglass of sherry, 
flavoring and sugar to taste. 

Color the jelly brown with a little burnt sugar, see " Color- 
ings," page 253, and add the flavoring ; have ready an open 
mould which has been soaked in cold water for thirty minutes. 
Put the jelly into it and leave it to set ; then turn on to a glass 
dish and fill up the middle with the cream well whipped, 
flavored witb the sherry, and sweetened, and serve. 



MILK, BUTTER & CHEESE. 

OBSERVATIONS. 

Great attention and cleanliness are required in the 
management of a dairy. The cows should be regularly 
milked at an early hour, and their udders perfectly emptied. 
In good pastures the cows produce, on an average, three 
gallons a day, from Lady Day to Michaelmas, and from 
thence to Christmas one gallon a day. 

The quantity of milk depends on many causes ; as the 
goodness, breed, and health of the cow, the pasture, the 
length of time from calving, the having plenty of clean 
water in the field she feeds in, etc A change of pasture 
will tend to increase it. 

When a calf is to be reared, it should be removed from 
the cow in ten days at the farthest. It should be removed 
in the morning and no food given to it till the following 
morning, when, being extremely hungry, it will drink read- 
ily ; feed it regularly morning and evening, and let the milk 
which is given to it be just warm ; skimmed milk will be 
quite good enough. 

The milk when brought in should always be strained into 
the pans. In some of the best dairies the floors are covered 
with running water to the depth of about eighteen inches, 
in which the milk is set in buckets or cans eight or ten 
inches in diameter, and about twenty inches in height. 
The temperature should be about 56° F. Instead of having 
the water run over the floor, it is better to allow it to pass 
through vats or troughs. When the cans containing the 
recently drawn milk are placed in the water, which should 
rise a little above the level of the milk, the animal heat is 
soon reduced to between 56° and 58° F. ; and the milk will 
keep sweet for thirty-six hours even in the hottest weather. 
This temperature allows the cream to rise with greater 
facility and with less admixture of other constituents than 

294 



Milk, &c. mrs. Clarke's cookery book. 295^ 

can be obtained in any other way. Some butter-makers 
allow the milk to stand for thirty-six hours ; others say that 
twenty-four hours is sufficient for all the cream to rise. 
After the cream has risen it is to be removed by skimming, 
and after standing a suitable time is placed in the churn. 
The kind of churn generally preferred by the best butter- 
makers is the common dash churn, made of white oak. 
Much depends upon the manner in which the operation is 
performed, even with the same churn. The motion should 
be steady and regular, not too quick nor too slow. The time 
occupied in churning 12 or 15 gallons of cream should be 
from 40 to 60 minutes. When removed from the churn, it 
should be thoroughly washed in cold water, using a ladle 
and not the hands. It should then be salted with about 
one-twentieth of its weight of the purest and finest salt, 
which should be thoroughly incorporated with it, by means 
of a butter worker or ladle, the hands being never allowed 
to touch the butter. Twelve hours afterwards another 
working should be performed and the butter packed in 
strong and perfectly tight white oak firkins. When filled 
they should be headed up and a strong brine poured in at 
the top. It should then be placed in a cool, well-ventilated 
cellar. 

Dr. Ure gives the following directions for curing butter, 
known as the Irish method : " Take one part of sugar, one 
of nitre, and two of the best Spanish great salt, and rub 
them together into a fine powder. This composition is to 
be mixed thoroughly with the butter as soon as it is com- 
pletely freed from the milk, in the proportion of i ounce to 
16 ; and the butter thus prepared is to be pressed tight into 
the vessel prepared to receive it, so as to leave no vacu- 
ities. This butter does not taste well till it has stood at 
least a fortnight ; it then has a rich, marrowy flavor that no 
other butter ever acquires." 



1083. FnZSSEVIira BUTTEIt. 

Two pounds of common salt, one pound of loaf sugar, and 
One pound^ of saltpetre. Beat ,,the whole well together, then, 
to fourteen pounds of butter, put one pound of this mixture. 



296 MRS. CLARKE'S COOKERY BOOK. MiLK, &C. 

work it well, and when cold and firm put it into glazed 
earthen vessels that will hold fourteen pounds each. 
Butter thus preserved becomes better by bemg kept, but 
it must be kept from the air, and securely covered down. 
If intenifcd for winter use, add another ounce of the mixture to 
every pound of butter, and on the top of the pans, lay enough 
salt to cover them with brine. 

1084. 0L07TED OXtXAlC. 

In order to obtain this, the milk is suttiered to stand in a 
vessel for twenty-four-hours. It is then placed over a stove, or 
slow fire, and very gradually heated, to an almost simmering 
state, below the boiling point. When this is accomplished, 
(the first bubble having appeared), the milk is removed from 
the fire, and allowed to stand for twenty-four hours more. At 
the end of this time, the cream will have arisen to the surface 
in a thick or clouted state, and is removed. In iliis sate it is 
eaten as a luxury ; but it ir often converted into butter, which 
is done by stirring it briskly with ti***- hand or a stick. The 
butter thus made, although more in quantity, is not equal in 
quality to that procured from the cream which has risen slowly 
and spontaneously; and in the largest and best dairies in the 
Vale of Honiton, the cream is never clouted, except when in- 
tended for the table in that state. 

1086. RBNITST (to prepare). 

Take out the stomach of a calf just killed, and scour it well 
with salt and water, both inside and out ; let it drain, and then 
sew it up with two large handfuls of salt in it, or keep it in the 
salt wet, and soak a piece in fresh water as it is required. 

1086. BTTTTERMIZiZ. 

If made of sweet cream, is a delicious and most wholesome 
food. Those who can relish sour buttermilk, find it still more 
light and it is reckoned more beneficial in consumptive cases. 
Buttermilk, if not very sour, is also as good as cream to eat 
with fruit, if sweetened with white sugar, and mixed with a 
very little milk. It likewise does equally for cakes and rice- 
puddings, and of course it is economical to churn before the 
cream is too stale for anything but to feed pigs. 

1087. OESAlfC (to Manaffo for Wbey-Butter). 

Set the whey one day and night, skim it, and so till yon have 
enough; then boil it and pour it into a pan or two of cold 
water. As the cream rises, skim it till no more comes ; then 
churn it. Where new-milk cheese is made daily, whey-butter 
for common and present use may be made to advantage. 



Milk, &c. mss. clarkr's cookery book. 197 



1088. MAITRB D'HOTBI. BTJTTEH— Jngredientg— 2 oz. of 
frosh butter, juice of 1 lemon, white sugar and salt to tasta, 
parsley blanched, freed from moisture and finely minced. 

Put the butter in a basin with the other ingredients, incor- 
porate the whole efit'ectually and quickly, and put it by in a cool 
place till wanted. 

1089. VATBR ORESS BTTTTBR.— Ingredients— J lb of nlo« 
fresh butter, a bunch of watercress. 

Mince the watercress finely, and mix well in with the butter. 
Roll into little shapes with butter pata. 

1000. APPIJP BT7TTEE..— Ingredients— To. *} pecks of tart cook- 
ing apples allow 9 lbs. of bn<wn sugar, and a little more than 
2 gallons of water. 
Put the sugar and water in your kettle, and let it boil ; then 
add the apples. After they begin to cook stir constantly till 
the butler is done. Try it by putting a little in a saucer, and 
if no water appears around it the marmalade is ready for tho 
cinnamon and nutmeg " to your taste.'' 

1091. BT7TTEE (to serve as a little dish). 

Roll butter in different forms ; either like a pine, and make 
the marks with a teaspoon, or roll it in crimping rollers, work 
it through a cullender, or scoop with a teaspoon, and mix with 
grated beef, tongue, or anchovies. Make a wreath of curled 
parsley to garnish. 

1092. 07IILED BUTTSn. 

Procure a strong cloth, and secure it by two of its corners to 
a nail or hook in the wall ; knot the remaining two corners, 
leaving a small space. Then place your butter into the cloth ; 
twist firmly over your serving dish and the butter will force its 
way between the knots in little curls or strings. Garnish with 
parsley and send to table. 

1093. DAISY BUTTER.— Ingredients— 2 tablespoonfuls of white 
sugar, thf yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls of 
orange flower water, J lb. oi fresh butter. 

Pound the yolks with the orange flower water (in a mortar) 
to a smooth paste, then mix in the sugar and butter. Now 
place in a clean cloth, and force the mixture through by wring- 
ing. The butter will fall upon the dish in pieces according to 
the size of the holes in the cloth. 

1094. MELTED BTJTTER.— Ingredients— 5 oz. of butter, 1 
tablespoonful of flour, 3 tablespoonfuls of water, salt to taste. 

Put all the ingredients into a stewpan, and stir one way over 



298 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Milk, &c. 

the fire until all the ingredients are well mixed. Allow it just 
to boil, and it is ready to serve. 

1095. A PRETTY DISH CP BITTTER. 

With a pair of butter pats, form some butter into balls the 
size of marbles. Set in a pretty dish, with a piece of ice, and 
sprigs of parsley strewn over. 

1096. OEEESS (to malce). 

Warm the milk till equal to new ; but observe it must not 
be too hot ; now add a sufficiency of rennet to turn it, and cover 
it over ; let it remain till well turned, then strike the curd well 
down with the skimming-dish, and let it separate, observing 
to keep it still covered. Put the vat over the tub, and fill it 
with curd, which must be squeezed close with the hand, and 
more is to be added as it sinks, and at length left about three 
inches above the edge of the vat. Before the vat is in this 
manner filled, the cheese cloth must be laid at the bottom of it, 
and, when full, drawn smoothly over on all sides. The curd 
should be salted in the tub after the whey is out. When every- 
thing is prepared as above directed, put a board under and 
over the vat, then place it in the press ; let it remain two hours, 
then turn it out, put on a fresh cheese cloth, and press it again 
ten hours ; then salt it all over, and turn it again into the vat ; 
then press it again twenty hours. The vat should have several 
small holes in the bottom to let the whey run off. 

1097. OSEESE (to preserve ound)- 

Wash in warm whey, when you have any, and wipe it once 
a month, and keep it on a rack. If you want to ripen it, a 
damp cellar will bring it forward. When a whole cheese is 
cut, the larger quantity should be spread with butter inside, 
and the outside wiped to preserve it. To keep those in daily 
use noist, let a clean cloth be wrung out from cold water, and 
wrapt round them when carried from table. Dry cheese may 
be used to advantage to grate for aerving with macaroni, or 
eating without. These observations are made with a view to 
make the above articles less expensive, as in most families 
where much is used there is waste. 

1098. OHEAIA CHEESE (l). 

Put five quarts of strippings, that is, the last of the milk, into 
a pan with two spoonfuls of rennet. When the curd is come, 
strike it down two or three times with the skimming-dish just 
to break it. Let it stand two hours, then spread a cheese-cloth 
on a sieve, put the curd on it*, and let the whey drain ; break 



Milk, &c. mrs. Clarke's cookery book. 299 



the curd a little with your hand, and put it into a vat with a 
two-pound weight upon it. Let it stand twelve hours, take it 
out, and bind a fillet round. Turn every day till dry, from one 
board to another ; cover them with nettles, or clean dockleaves, 
and put between two pewter-plates to ripen. If the weather be 
warm, it will be ready in three weeks. 

1099. OBEAIC CHEESE (2). 

Have ready a kettle of boiling water, put five quarts of new 
milk into a pan, five pints of cold water, and five of hot ; when 
of a proper heat, put in as much rennet as will bring it in twen- 
ty minutes, likewise a piece of sugar. When come, strike the 
skimmer three or four times down, and leave it on the curd. 
In an hour or two lade it into the vat without touching it ; put 
a two-pound weight on it when the whey has run from it, and 
the vat is full. 

1100. OREAIA OEESSE (3). 

Put as much salt to three pints of raw cream as will season 
it ; stir it well and pour it into a sieve in which you have folded 
a cheese-cloth three or four times, and laid at the bottom. 
When it hardens, cover it with nettles on a pewter-plate. 

1101. OHEAM OHES.'^E (4). 

To a quart of fresh cream put a pint ot new milk warm 
enough to make the cream a proper warmth, a piece of sugar, 
and a little rennet. Set near the fire till the curd comes ; fill 
a vat made in the form of a brick, of wheat-straw or rushes 
sewed together. Have ready a square of straw, or rushes 
sewed fiat, to rest the vat on, and another to cover it ; the vat 
being open at top and bottom. Next day take it out, and 
change it as above to ripen. A half-pound weight will be suf- 
ficient to put on it, 

1102. CHEAM OSEESS (5). — Ingredients— To one pint of fresh 
rich cream allow one teaapoonful of renuet and a little salt. 

Let it stand for two days, stirring twice with a silver spoon. 
Tie up in a cloth (in the form of a dumpling), put this into 
another coarse cloth, and bury it for two days. Make into 
proper shape with butter utensils. 

1103. OUSAK O&EESE (6).— Ingiedients— One pint of rich raw 
cream, a dessertspoonful of salt. 

Put the salt into the cream ; fold a napkin double on the 
shallow end of a hair sieve — a sieve of about six inches in 
diameter. Pour the cream into the hollow lined with the napkin, 
In eight or ten hours the cheese will be fit to turn. Take a fresh 



300 MRS. CLARKE'S COOKERY BOOK. MiLK, ^&C. 

napkin, doubled, place it on the top of the cheese, and turn 
the sieve over, so that the cheese may drop out on t, e dry 
cloth. Replace it in the sieve, so that it may both dra."n and 
keep in shape. For the two following days the n'apkins 
should be changed at least three times each day. On the 
fourth day the cheese will be ready for use. 

1104. SAaS GHEESa. 

Bruise some young red sage and spinach leaves, express the 
juice, and mix it with the curd ; then proceed as with other 
cheese. 

1105. APPLE OHEESE.— Ingredients — Equal weight of white 
sugar and apples, juice of 2 lemons and the peel cut 
finely, — custard. 

Peel, pare, and core the apples, and cut into small pieces. 
Add the sugar, lemon juice and peel. Put them on the fire and 
keep moving them about to prevent their burning. Boil until 
the apples are quite maehed up and look clear, and in stirring 
the bottom of the pan comes clean. Dip a mould in cold water, 
put in your cheese, and serve next day cold with a custard 
round it. 

1106. OBEESE STRAWS- — Ingredients— 6 oz. of flour, 4 oz. of 
butter, 3 oz, of grated Parmesan cheese, a little cream, salt, 
white pepper, and cayenne 

Roll it out thin, cut it into narrow strips, bake in a moderate 
oven, and serve piled high and very hot and crisp. 

1107. POTTED CHEESE- — Ingredients — i oz. of Cheshire cheese, 

li oz. of flue butter, a teaspoonful of white sugar, a little 
piece of mace, a glass of white wine. 
Cut and pound the cheese and add to the other ingredients. 
Press it down in a deep pot. 

1108. ROAST OHBESS. — Ingreaienta — 3 oz. of Cheshire cheese, 
yolks of 2 egg!«, 4 oz. of grated breadcrumbs, 3 oz. of butter, 
a dessert spoonful of mustard, salt and pepper. 

Grate the cheese, add the yolks, breadcrumbs, and butter ; 
beat the whole well in a mortar and add the mustard, salt and 
pepper. Make some toast cut into neat slices and spread the 
paste thickly on. Cover with a dish and place in the oven till 
hot through, then uncover and let the cheese color a light 
brown. Serve immediately. 

1109. MUSOLE-PLTJld OHEESE.— Ingredients— 6 lbs. of fruit, 
2^ lbs. of good Lisbon cheese. 

Bake the fruit in a stone jar, remove the stones and add the 
kernels. Pour half the juice on the cheese ; whea melted and 



Milk, &c. MRS. cLarke's cookerv book. 30 1 

simmered a few minutes skim and add the fruit. Keep it 
doing very gently till all the juice is evaporated, stirring all 
the time. Pour into moulds. 

1110. OHSSSfi T0A3T— Ingredients— Some nice butter, made 
mustard and salt, a little Gloucester cheese, toast. 

Mix the butter, mustard and salt, spread on toast and sprinkle 
with the cheese, grated. 

1111. OESSSE DISK— Ingredients— Quarter lb. of good fresh 
cheese. We mean not very old, or much dried, 1 cup of 
Bweet milk, J of a teaspoonful of dry mustard. A little pepper 
and salt, tablespoonful of butter. 

Cut the cheese into thin slices put it into a "spider "or 
saucepan, and pour over it the milk, mix in the other ingre- 
dients. Stir this mixture all the time while over the fire. Turn 
the contents into a hot dish and serve immediately. 

1112. OSXSSB TOAST* — Ingredients— Some rich cheese, pepper 
to taste, a beaten egg with sufficient milk to make it of the 
consistency of cream. 

Grate the cheese and mix with the other ingredients ; warm 
the mixture on the fire and when quite hot pour it over some 
slices of hot buttered toast ; serve immediately. 

1113. PARMBSAN PONDTJE.— Ingredients— Half oz. of fresh 
butter, a tablespoonful of flour, a small quantity of milk, 3 
oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, 1 pod of garlic, a small quan- 
tity of flour of mustard, a dash of powdered nutmeg, some 
white pepper, yolks of 3 eggs beaten up in a little milk, 
whites of 5 eggs whisked to a stiff' froth. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan.'stir into it the f!our, when the 
two are well amalgamated put in a small quantity of milk and 
the Parmesan cheese ; stir the mixture on a slow fire till it as- 
sumes the appearance of thick cream, but be careful not to let 
it boil ; then add the garlic, flour of mustard, powdered nutmeg, 
and white pepper; mix thoroughly, and, if required, add a 
little salt ; keep on stirring the mixture at a very moderate 
heat for about ten minutes, then remove the pod of garlic, take 
the saucepan off the fire, and stir the contents occasionally un- 
til quite cold, when you stir into them the yolks of the eggs 
beaten up with a little milk, and strained, and finally the whites 
of five eggs whisked into a stiff froth. Pour the mixture into a 
deep round tin, put it into the oven, which must not be too 
hot ; in about twenty or thirty minutes the fondue will have 
risen and taken color. Pin a napkin round the tin, and serve 
quickly. 



36i Mrs. Clarke's CooRiiRY flook. Milk, &c. 

1114. STBTJ7BD CHEESE.— Ingredients— Half lb. of Gloucester 

cheese, a little ale or white wine, a spoonful of mustard, 
some thin toasted or fried sippets. 

Cut the cheese into thin slices, put it into a stewpan with 
the ale or white wine and keep stirring over the fire till it is 
melted; put in a spoonful of the mustard, stir it a moment over 
the fire, then put into a small deep difh, and brown it with a 
very hot salamander; have ready the sippets, stick all round 
and in the middle. Serve hot and quickly. 

1115. 0T7ZID TOUt CSEESE0AZES>'-Ingi'edient8— One quart 
of new milk, 1 tablespoonful rennet, alum the size of 
a nutmeg, 3 oz. of butter, 2 or 3 eggs, sugar to taste, a few 
currants. 

Put a quart of new milk into a clean pan, and set it by the 
side of the fire so that it will keep blood warm ; put the rennet 
into it, too much will make the curd hard and the whey very 
salt ; in a short time, it will be separated into curd and whey, 
which cut into small pieces with a knife. Or, put in a small 
piece of alum, about the size of a nutmeg, into the milk, and 
let it boil. Strain the curd from the whey by means of a hair 
sieve, either let it drain, or press it dry ; pass the curd through 
the sieve, by squeezing it into a basin. Melt the butter and 
mix with the curd, also two or three eggs, or else one egg and 
four yolks ; add sugar to your palate ; with a little grated nut- 
meg, and a few currants if approved of; mix the whole to- 
gether, and fill the cases. 

1116. A CHEAP AND NUTRITIOUS DISH.-Ingredienta- 

1 breakfast cup of rice, 1 quart of milk, ^ lb. cl cheese. 
Chop the cheese as finely as possible ; simmer the rice in the 
milk, and when tender add the cheese ; mix well and bake 
half an hour. 

1117. HOMINT AND CHEESE.— Ingredients— i lb. of hominy, 

i pint of milk, ^ lb. of cheese. 

Soak the hominy in water all night ; next day boil in the 
milk, then add the cheese finely chopped, and mix thoroughly ; 
bake twenty minutes. 

N.B. — These dishes can be eaten by the dyspeptic without 
discomfort. 

1118. POTTED CHEESE. — Ingredients — 3 lbs of Cheshire cheese, 
i lb. of butter, a large glass of sherry, a little mace, cayenne, 
pepper and salt. 

Beat the cheese in a mortar with the above ingredients. 



Milk, &c. Mrs. Clarke's cookerv cook. ^03 



Mix all thoroughly together, put into pots, and pour a little 
clarified butter over the top. 

1119. OHBBSB (Poualel).— Ingredients— Allow J lb. of butter 
to 1 lb. of cheese. 

This dish is economical, as dry cheese may be used. Slice 
the cheese into small pieces, then add the butter. Proceed to 
put it in a stone jar, pressing down tightly; put a layer of 
clarified butter over the top. It may be flavored with cayenne 
or mixed mustard. 

1120. OSEESB STRAWS- — Ingredients— Some trimmings of 
puff paste, grated Parmesan cheese, pepper, mustard and salt. 

Roll out a piece of pufi paste very thin, and sprinkle it all 
over very thickly with grated Parmesan cheese, a little mus- 
tard, pepper and salt, then roll it up and press it with the hand 
and roll out thinly with the rolling pin, cut it out in strips, five 
inches long and a quarter of an inch wide, bake a few minutes 
in a warm oven, pile them up on a napkin, and serve very hot, 

1121. EIOOTTA. 

This is a delicious dairy produce, obtainable in southern 
Italy, and for anyone having a dairy, it is worthy of a trial. 
Here are two recipes for making ricotta. Take nine and a half 
pints of milk, dissolve four grammes (about one-eighth of an 
ounce) of rennet in a little of it, mix it with the rest, and pour 
the whole into a flat copper pan. Place this on a slow fire, 
and work it well with a roiolo—i.e.^ a stick with a wooden disk 
attached to its extremity. As soon as the milk is warm remove 
the pan from the fire, and cover it with a cloth, and when cold 
work it again with the stick ; gather all that is coagulated, put 
it in a grass basket, and leave it to season. With the liquid 
that remains in the pan the ricotta is made in this wise : Add 
half a pint of fresh milk to it, put it in the pan on a slow fire, 
and work it lightly with the rotolo. A white froth will rise to 
the surface, and this carefully skimmed off and put into deep 
narrow grass baskets, constitutes the ricotta. Another way is 
as follows : When the first cheese has been taken off, the liquid 
that remains is strained through a very fine cloth, a few drops 
of rennet are added, and the pan is put on a gentle fire ; at a 
certain degree of heat (30° Reau.) the ricotta will rise in a 
white froth, then the pan must be removed from the fire and 
covered with a cloth ; when the contents have cooled the ricotta 
is gathered up with a spoon, and placed in grass baskets, as 
above. 



3o4 Airs. Clarke's cookery cook. Milk, kc. 

1122. IIAOABOITI.— Ingredients— J lb. of butter, i lb. of tubular 
macaroni, 5 oz. of ParmcBan cheese, 2 glasses of milk, 1 quart 
of water, pepper and salt to taste. 

Mix th« milk and water, salting it to taste, place in a stew* 
pan on the fire, bring to a boil and drop in the macaroni. 
When tender, drain and dish. Grate three ounces of the cheese 
and mix with the macaroni. Now mix in half of the butter, 
sprinkling a little pepper over. Put the rest of the grated cheese 
on the top, covering with bread crumbs. Warm the rest of 
butter (do not let it oil), pour over the breadcrumbs. Brown 
before the fire or with a salamander. 

1123. ICAOABOXTZ ▲ LA RXTITI.— Ingredients— Eight oz. mac* 

aroni, 10 oz. of any rich well-flavored cheese, i pt. of good 
cream, a little salt, seasoning of cayenne, ^ a salt spoonful of 
pounded mace, 2 oz. of sweet fresh butter. 

Boil the macaroni in the usual way, and by the time it is 
sufficiently tender dissolve gently the cheese in the 
above quantity oi cream, add a little salt and rather a full sea- 
soning of cayenne. Now add the pounded mace and butter. 
The cheese should, in the flrst instance, be sliced very thin, 
and taken quite free of the hard part adjoining the rind ; it 
should be stirred in the cream without intermission until it is 
entirely dissolved, and the whole is perfectly smooth : the mac- 
aroni, previously well drained, may then be tossed gently 
in it, or after it is dished, the cheese may be poured equally 
over the macaroni. The whole, in either case, may be thickly 
covered before it is sent to table, with fine crumbs of bread fried 
of a pale gold color, and dried perfectly, either before the fir* 
or in an oven, when such an addition is considered an improve- 
ment. As a matter of precaution, it is better to boil the cream 
before the cheese is melted in it ; rich white sauce, made not 
very thick, with an additional ounce or two ot butter, may be 
used to vary and enrich this preparation. Do not use Parme- 
san cheese for this dish. i 



BEVERAGES. 

TEA, ITS HISTORY AND COMMERCE. 

All that can be affirmed regarding the early history of 
this beverage, is that it appears to have been used for ages 
in China, where it is believed by the natives to be indig- 
enous. It first became known to Europeans at the end of 
the i6th century, though it is only mentioned by the 
Portuguese writer Maffei, in his historic Indicoea, who re- 
fers to it as a product of both China and Japan. The 
first reference to it by a native of Britain is in a letter 
dated 27th June, 16 15, written by a Mr. Wickham, which 
is in the records of the East India Company, and it is cur- 
ious to observe that both the Portuguese and English 
writers referred to use their own rendering of the native 
name, which is Tcha ; Maffei calls it " Chia," and Mr. 
Wickham "Chaw." I'rom this time it gradually became 
known to the wealthy inhabitants of London in the form 
of occasional presents of small quantities from India ob- 
tained from China, or by small lots in the market in Britain 
from time to time, but always at exorbitant prices, fetching 
sometimes as much as $50 per pound, and never less than 
$25. From that time to the present many changes have taken 
place, both as regards the duties levied and otherwise, un- 
til now, when the duty is only 6d. per pound. The import 
for the year 1880 being 206,698,971 pounds, valued at 
^11,631,398 sterling, shows how generally the beverage 
is used. In 

THE PREPARATION OF TEA, 

Black, Mixed or Green, care should always be taken that 
the tea-pot has been thoroughly scalded out and is perfectly 
dry inside before you proceed to make the tea. Put in, say, 
one spoonful for each person, the water all being put on at 
once in a thoroughly boiling state. Very great care should 
305 T 



3o6 MRS. Cr.ARKE's COOKERY COOK. BkVERAGKS. 



be given to this matt'^r, as it reqiures the temperature of 
boiling water to extract the peculiar oil of tea. As a given 
quantity of tea is sini lar to a given (juantity of malt, only 
imparting strength to a given quantity of water, therefore 
any additional quantity is a waste and gives a vai)i(l flavor 
to tea ; much better use two tea-pots instead of two draw- 
ings. It should be allowed to stand from eight to tun 
minutes, and if th^ teapot is placed under a cosy the 
drawing qualities of the tea are brought out much quicker. 
With regard to J ipan Teas, if the follo*ving instructions 
are strictly adhered to, we can assure our readers they will 
have a delicious beverage : 

1. An earthenware tea-pot or pitcher should be used. 

2. The boiling water should ni/ha poured into the i)ot at 
one time, and tea put on top of the water. 

3. The tea should be allowed to stand for twenty min- 
utes on the stove, at near the boiling point — it should then 
be boiled for four or five minutes. 

The above notes on tea and tea-making are contributed 
by the world-renowned I.i-Quor Tea Co., one of the best 
authorities on any matter relating to tea known. 

The employment of coffee, as a beverage, was introduced 
from Arabia in the i6th century into Egypt and Constanti- 
nople. Leonhard Rauwolf, a German physician, was pro- 
bably the first to make coffee known in Europe by the ac- 
count of his travels printed in 1573. Soon after the first in- 
troduction of coffee, coffee-houses arose almost everywhere. 
The trade now is of great importance. In 1.S80 the total 
quantity imported into the United Kingdom was 1,546,130 
cwts., of which 850,000 cwts. were imported from Ceylon 
and other British possessions, the computed real value 
being ^6,861,130, or about lod. per pound. 



1124. OOFPEB (llOTr to prepare) —ingredients—Allow 2 Inrge 
teaspoonfuls of coflee to each porsoii, and to this quantity ^ 
pint of water. 

It is a good plan to have an iron ring to fit the top of the 
coffee pot inside, and have a small muslin bag attached (be 
sure and not have muslin too thin), put into the pot the muslin 
bag and pour boiling water in it, and when the pot is well 



Beverages. mrs. clarke's cookery hook. 307 



warmed put into the bag the quantity of ground coffee you 
are about to use, then pour over as much boiling water as is 
required and close the lid. When all the water has drained 
through remove the bag and the coffee is then ready for the 
table. Preparing coiTcc in this manner prevents the necessity 
of changing the coffee from one vessel to another, which 
cools and spoils it. Water should be poured on coffee very 
slowly, as thib wiH cause the infusion to be much stronger. 
N. B. Be careful in making the bag that the seams are well 
sewn, or the grounds will escape and spoi! the coffee. Send to 
table wilh a pitcher of scalded inilk. 

1125. TEA OR COFFEE WITH EQrQ- 

Beat up a n£w laid egg well, in a breakfast cup till it is quite 
frothy, then fill up the cup with either tea or coftise, adding 
milk and sugar to taste. To a delicate person there is much 
more support given in a cup of tea or coffee made in this way 
than if taken plain. 

1126. OOFFEB (another method of manner). 

First, take an earthenware jug to hold the required quantity 
— it must not only be made in this, but served too, as it is 
sweeter than cither silver or metal, and they can be bought 
both strong, and of suitable appearance for the table. We will 
suppose four cups are wanted. But eight heaped teaspoonfuls 
of freshly ground coffee and one teaspoonful o T pure chicory in, for 
whatever may be said against the latter article, it is, when 
good, and in proper proportion, a considerable improvement. 
Now, wilh the lid on it, put the jug where it is warm for five 
minutes, then pour on boiling water, let it stand in a very hot 
place three minutes, take a spoon and stir the coffee, place the 
jug on the, cold stan-d, and in two minutes it will be perfectly 
clear. If for breakfast a dessert spoonful of really good thick 
cream for each cup is necessary. Should this meal be one over 
which there is no hurry, then a jug of boiled milk is preferable, 
but it should be fresh, not milk that has stood and had the 
cream taken from it. I will just add that many people would 
ike the mixture a little stronger when taken after dinner. 

1127. OOCOA (to make)-— Ingredients— 2 tablespoonfuls of cocoa, 
1 breakfast ou4)f ul of boiliug milk aud water. 

Put sufficient cold milk in to form the cocoa into a smooth 
paste. Now add equal proportions of boiling milk and boiling 
water, mixing well. N. B. — Great care must be taken that the 
milk does not burn, or it will impart a disagreeable flavor. 



3o8 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Beverages. 

1128. OHOOOLATB (to prepare) — Ingrodieats — Allow 1 oz. 
chocolutu, 1 ^ pt.s. uutei- uiid aaaiu ({uaiitity of milk to every 
two yursouH. 

Heat the milk and water, grate the chocolate into it and stir 
quickly until the ch()ct)late is dissolved, bring it to the point of 
boiling, and serve with sugar to taste. 

1129. 00FFEE2 IdlLK— Ingredients — 1 dessertspoonful of ground 
cotfce to a pint of milk, 2 or 8 shavings of isinglass. 

Boil the coffee in the milk for nearly a i|uarter of an hour, 
tlien put in the isinglass to clear it ; let it boil a few minutes 
and set on the back of the stove to clarify. This is very good 
for brtakfabt. It should be sweetened with sugar of good 
quality. 

1130. OUAITBEZIZIY DRIITK— Ingredients— A teacup of cran- 
berries, 1 large spoonful of oatmeal, a piece of lemon peel, 
KU^ar, i pt. of white wine. 

Put the cranberries into a cup of water and mash them. Boil 
in the meantime two quarts of water with the oatmeal and 
lemon peel ; add the cranberries and sugar (taking care not to 
put too much, or else the fine sharpness of the fruit will be lost). 
Then add the wine ; boil for half an hour and strain. 

1131. OATMEAL DEUTZ (Ileoipe "by the late Sr. Farkes). 

" The proportions are a quarter pound of oatmeal to two or 
three quarts of water, according to the heat of the day and the 
work and thirst ; it should be well boiled, and then an ounce 
or one and a half ounces of brown sugar added. If you find it 
thicker than you like, add three quarts of water. Before drink- 
ing it shake up the oatmeal well through the liquid. In sum- 
mer drink this cold ; in winter hot. You will find it not only 
quenches thirst, but will give you more strength and endurance 
than any other drink. If you cannot boil it you can take a 
little oalnieal mixed with cold water and sugar, but this is not 
so good ; always boil it if you can. If at any time you have to 
make a very long day, as in harvest, and cannot stop for meals, 
increase the oatmeal to half pound or even three-quarters 
pound, and the water to three quarts if you are likely to be very 
thirsty. If you cannot get oatmeal, wheat-flourwilldo, but not 
quite so well." Those who tried this recipe last year found 
that they could get through more work than when using beer, 
and were stronger and healthier at the end of the harvest. 
Cold tea and skim milk are also found to be better than beer, 
but not oiiual to the oatmeal Uriuk. 



Rf.vf.racrs. MRS. ciakkk's cookkry hook. 309 



1132. LSMOITASS (l). — 1ngredientM— Six large lemons and alb. 
of loaf augar. 

Rub the sugar over the rinds to get out the flavor, then 
squeeze out all the juice on the sugar ; cut what remains of the 
lemons into slices and pour on them a quart of boiling water ; 
when this has cooled, strain it on to the juice ana sugar, and 
add as much more water (cold) as will make it palatable. A 
teaspoooful of orange flower water added gives it a pleasant 
flavor, much liked by some people. 

1133. liEMOiTADB (2).— Ingredients— One oz. tartaric aeid, 1 
lb. loaf sugar, 1 pint of boiling water, and 20 or HO drops of 
essence of lemon. 

To be kept in a bottle and mixed with cold water as desired. 

1134. MILS LBLIOlTADa.— Ingredients 2 lbs. of loaf sugar, 

dissolved in a quart of boiling water, ^ pint of lemon juice, 
1 gill of slien/, 1 pint f new milk (cold). 

Mix the dissolved sugar, tlie lemon juice, sherry and miik 
Stir the whole well and strain ready for use. 

1135. ORAlTCHADE-lngiedients— Juice of 7 oranges (large), 
peel of three, syrup of sugar and water, gkiss of brandy. 

Pour boiling water over the peel ; cover closely over until it 
is cold, boil water and sugar sufTicieut to make a thin syrup. 
Skim carefully while boiling. When all are cold mix the in- 
fusion, the syrup and the juice, together with as much more 
water as will make a rich drink; strain through muslin, add 
the brandy, and ice it with lumps of clear ice. 

1136. ALB OR BESB (to roCOVer flat).— Ingredients —Five 
gals flat ale or beer, 5 lbs. of honey. 

Boil the ale with the honey, skim well, and when cold put it 
back into the hogshead and bung up close. 

1137. IAT7LLED ALB.— Ingredients— l quart of good ale, a little 
nutmeg, (ieggs, a piece of butter, a glass of brandy. 

Boil the ale with the nutmeg ; have the eggs beaten up in a 
little cold ale and then pour the hot ale to it and return sev- 
eral times to prevent it curdling ; warm and stir it till sufficient- 
ly thick ; add the butter and brandy, and serve with dry toast, 

1138. HOP BEER.— Ingredients— One handful hops, 1 lb. treacle, 
1 teacupful yeast. 

Boil the hops one hour; strain and add the treacle and 
enough water to make the whole two gallons ; when milkwarm 
add the yeast and let it stand a night, then skim and pour it 
carefully off the yeast. Bottle for use. 



3IO MRS. clarkk's cookery book. Bevkrages. 



1139. ITSTTLS BEZR. — Ingredients — 1^ doz. fine nettles 
(stockn aa well iih luavcH), 2 lliH. of raw Riigar, 3 tablespoonfuia 
of ginger, 2 gals, water, 1 or 1^ cakes of coniprossed yeast. 

Put all the ingredients in the water and allow them to be- 
come lukewarm. Add the yeast and keep boiling for 
twenty minutes. Strain and set aside to cool. It should be 
put in large stone bottles when cold, and will be ready for use 
in two days. 

1140. ANITISSTTE Ingredients -Two oz. of grocn nnnisccd, 1 
oz. of coriander Hood, 2 grammes of cinnamon, 1 gramme of 
mace, 5 pints of brandy, 2 lbs. of wliite sugar. 

Crush all the ingredients excepting the sugar and brandy ; 
put into a large wide-mouthed glass bottle with the brandy 
and sugar; leave the whole for a month, then liltor and cork 
tightly. 

1141. QTTHTOE RATAriA.— Ingredients— Some ripo quinces, 
brandy, J^ llis. of white sugar, 1 gramme of cinnamon, and a 
clove. 

Scrape some quinces to the core. Do not peel them on any 
account, taking out all the pips. Leave them to macerate for 
three whole days in some cool place, then press the fruit to get 
all the juice. Measure the pulp, and put exactly the same 
quantity of brandy, adding also the white sugar, cinnamon and 
clove. Let the whole infuse from six weeks to two months 
and then filter. 

1142. STTMIOIR DRUTZ.— Ingredients— Half a tumblerful of 
cold spring water, 2 large teaspoonfuls of lemon syrup, A a 
teaspoouful of carbonate of soda, same of tartaric acid. 

Put into the water the syrup and carbonate of soda ; when 
quite dissolved, add the tartaric acid and, stirring smartly 
drink during the effervescence. 

1143. LElffON SALI— Ingredients— 24 grains of highly dried 
citric or tartaric acid, 1 scriiple of carbonate of soda, also 
highly dried, 2 drachms of white sugar, 1 or 2 drt>p8 of es- 
sence of lemon. 

Mix these ingredients and put into a nice dry bottle and be 
careful that no damp gets to it. When wanted for use a des 
8ertspoonful in a glass of water makes a nice drink. ' 

1144. anTGBRBBBR P0"WDE11S— Ingredients-Blue paper 
i drachm of bi carbonate of soda, a grain or two of powdored 
ginger, i oz. of sugar. White paper— twenty-five gruina of 
tartaric acid. 



Bevfrages. MRS. cl/kke's cookery book. 311 

1145. OINOEH LIQUEUR. -Ingredients— 2 Iba. of white Kiignr ^ 
pint of boiling water, A gallon of ntrong maU. whiskey, 3 oz. 
of l)itter and 2 o/.. of nwcot alniondH, 3 oz. of liruiuud ginger, 
and the rind of tlireo lemonB. 

Dissolve the sugar in the water, add the whisky, almonds, 
ginger and lemon rind ; mix all in an earthenware pan auu 
in nvc days strain and bottle. 

1 14G. dUlTG-Ell BSEZl ( I ) TiigTodif utH- 4 Ihs, of wldto sogar, 4 
oz of Ijiuiaed sugar, 4 gals, water, 3 loinonB, 1 oz. go-id 
meaHiue of cream of tartar, ^ pt. of fresh hoer yeast. 

Roil the siipar, ginger and w.iter for half an hour briskly, and 
then skim ; slice the lemons into a wooden tub (thoroughly, 
scaled and cleaned previously), and add the cream of tartar. 
Pour the i. oiling liquid into the tub over the lemons, etc., and 
allow it to cool. Then add yeast ; let it work in the tub for 
three, or even fo ir days is safer, and strain off the liquid, clear 
from the lees, letting it remain a fortnight. Tiien bottle it, and 
carefully wire down the corks. If the ginger beer is required 
for keeping it is neces?ary, when strained from the dregs, to 
add half a pint of brandy. It will then keep good any length 
of time. 

1147. C3-I1T0EE BEEH (2).— Ingredients— 16 oz. of ginger, 10 lbs* 
8ue;ar or oandy, 15 wincglassfula of lemon juice, 30 quart 
bottles, boiling water, 10 wineglassfuls of toddy. 

The toddy is to be added when nearly cold. When quite cold 
bottle and tie down the corks. 

11-18. CHITOBE. CORDIAL —Ingredients— To 1 lb. of well picked 
currants (red or black) add a quart of whiaky and 1 oz ol 
bruised ginger, ^ lb. of sugar. 

Put all the ingredients exceping the sugar into a jar and let 
it stand two days. Strain through flannel and add sugar When 
this is melted, bottle. 

1149. SPANISH GUTQERBTTB—Ingr'^dient a— To each gallon 
of water allow 1 lb. white sugar, i oz. best bruised g^inger 
root, J oz. cream of tartar, 2 aliced lemons, \ pt. yeast. 

In making five gallons boil the ginger and !emon ten minutes 
in two gallons of water. Dissolve the sugar and cream of tar- 
tar in cold water and mix all, adding the yeast. Let it ferment 
ali night, strain and bottle next morning. 

1150. CHITGBR POP- — Ingredients— 5i gals, water, \ lb. bruised 
ginger, ^ oz. of tartaric acid, 2^ lbs. white sugar, whites of 3 
eggs well beaten, 1 teaapoonful of lemon oil, 1 gill of yeast. 

Boil the ginger for half-an hour in one gallon of water, 



$Ti MRS. ct.arke's cookkry book. Brvkrages. 



strain, add the oil while hot ; mix well. Make over night and 
in the morning skim and bottle. 

1161. CASSIS- — Ingredients— H lbs. very ripe black currants, 2 qta. 
of brandy, ^ lb. of ripe raspberries, 2 cloves, i oz. of cinnamon, 
2 lbs. of white sugar. 

This requires infusion for six weeks. Crush the currants, 
put them in an old fashioned earthen jar, wide mouthed, with 
the brandy, raspberries, cloves and cinnamon. Infuse for six 
weeks, then draw ofT the liquid and press the remains, put 
back the liquid into the jar with the sugar. When the sugar 
is thoroughly melted, filter. 

1152. CHAMPAGNE CUP.— Ingredients— One qt. champagne, 2 
bottles soda water, 1 liqueur-glass of brandy, 2 tablespoons 
of powdered sugar, a few thin strips of cucumber rind, a large 
lump of ice. 

Make just before it is required. 

11C3. VHTEGAR PLANT (l).—lngredients—i lb. coarse brown 
sugar, the same quantity of treacle, 2 quarts of water. 

Mix together and boil for five minutes, and pour into a white 
earthenware vessel. When the mixture is cold put the vinegar 
plant on, cover it close with brown paper, and let it stand six 
weeks or two months, by which time the liquid will be turned 
into vinegar. Then remove the plant, boil the liquor, and strain 
it through flannel ; bottle for use. 

1164. VINEGAB PLANT (2).— Ingredients— Quarter lb. moist 
sugar, J lb. of treacle, 5 J pts. water. 

Put into a large white-lip basin that will hold three quarts ; 
place the vinegar plant on this, and in six weeks or so it will 
have covered the surface of the mixture. Young plants will 
form underneath, which can be detached one at a time. Pour 
off the vinegar through muslin into bottles, cork, and keep it in 
a cool place. The plant must also be kept in a dry place. 

1155. STTGAR VINEGAR- — Ingredients — 1 qt. spring water, J 
lb. of coarsest sugar, a piece of toast spread with yeast. 

Mix the water and sugar, boiling and skimming as long as 
any scum rises. (To every quart of spring water put a quarter 
lb. of the coarsest sugar) ; Put it in a tub, let it stand till cool 
enough to work ; and put into it a toast spread with yeast, of a 
size proportioned to the quantity made. Let it ferment a day 
or two ; then beat the yeast into it» put it into a bag or barrel, 
with a piece of tile or slate over the bung hole, and place it 



SEVEhAGfiS. MftS. CLAftKE's COOKERY fiOOK. 313 



where it may have the heat of the sun. Make it in March, or 
the beginning of April, and it will be lit for use in July or Au- 
gust. If not sour enough, which is seldom the case when not 
properly managed, let it stand a month longer before bottling 
off. While making, it must never be disturbed, after the first 
week or ten days ; if in very fine weather the bung hole would 
be best left open all day, but must be closed at night. Before 
bottling it may be drawn off into alresh cask ; and, if it fill a 
large barrel, a handful of shred isinglass may be thrown in or 
less, in proportion to the quantity ; this, after standing a few 
days, will make the vinegar fine, and it may be drawn off, or 
bottled for use. This vinegar, though very strong, may be 
used in pickling for sea-store or exportation without being 
lowered ; but for home pick'es it will bear mixing with at least 
an equal quantity of cold spring water. There are few pickles 
for which this vinegar need be boiled. Without boiling it will 
keep walnuts, even for the East or West Indies ; but then, as 
remarked in general of pickles for foreign use, it must not be 
mixed with water. If much vinegar be made, so as to require 
expensive casks, the outside should be painted, for the sake of 
preserving them. 

1156. PHIMHOSE VINEGAR.— Ingredients— To 15 qts. water, 
allow 6 lbs. white suj, -r, ^ pk. of primroses with the stalks 
on, a little barm on toast. 

Boil the sugar and water, remove the scum, leave till cold, 
then add the primroses and barm ; let it remain four days, take 
off the barm, put liquor and flowers into a cask, set in a warm 
place with the bung out until it is sour. Then bung slightly. 
Allow to stand a few months before bottling ; cover the bung 
hole with muslin. 

1157. OTJP-HANT VIITEG-AR— Ingredients— 2 qts. black cur- 
rants, I pt. of the best vinegar, li lbs. white sugar. 

Well bruise the currants and place into a basin with the 
vinegar. Let it stand three or four days and then strain into an 
earthen jar, add the sugar ; set the jar in a saucepan of cold 
water and boil for an hour. When cold bottle. It is the better 
for keeping. 

1158. RASPBEHRY VlNEGAr..— Ingredients— To 4 qts. of red 
raspberries put enough vinegar to cover, 1 lb. of sugar to 
every pint 01 juice. 

Let the raspberries and vinegar stand for twenty-four hours, 
scald and strain it ; add sugar, boil twenty minutes, skim well, 
and when cold bottle. 



3t4 Mrs. clarke's cookery nooK. BEVEnACKs. 



1159. RASPBEBRY AOIC— Ingredients— Two and a lialf oz. 

of tartaric aciil di.ssolvod in a qiuut of w;itor, 6 ll)s. red rasp- 
berries, to each pint of liquor add l^ lbs. of white sugar. 

Pour the dissolved acid upon the fruit, let it stand iwcnty- 
fo-ur hours ; then strain without pressing the fruit except ever so 
slightly. Add the sugar and stir until it dissolves. Bottle, but 
do not seal for four or five days. 

1160. CLARET OTJP- — Ingredients— One quart of claret, one 
bottle of soda water, 1 lemon cut ver}' thin 4 tablcspooiifiih) 
of powdered sugar, quarter of a teaapoonful of grated nut- 
meg, one liqueur glass of brandy, one winfgla.s.s of sherry. 

Half an hour before it is wanted, add a good-si^ed lump of 
ice. 

1161. RASPBERRT DRIITK.— Ingredients -Three quarts of 
nice ripe raspberries, IJ pints of cider vinegar, -^ lb. of white 
sugar, .3 gills of best brandy. 

Put the fruit into a jar, pour the cider vinegar over them 
and the sugar ; mash the berries to a pulp ; leave in the sun 
for three and a half or four hours, then strain out all the juice 
and add the brandy ; bottle and seal. When wanted put two 
tablespoonfuls into a glass of ice water. 

1162. CREAM OF TARTAR "WHEY.-Ingredient—One qt. 
of milk, a tablcHpoonful of cream of tartar, sweetening and 
ilavoi'ing to taste. 

Set the milk on the fire and when it begin'^ lo boil put in the 
cream of tartar ; take it off and let it stand till the curd settles 
at the bottom. Pour off the whey carefully, sweeten and flavor, 
and drink milk-warm. 

1163. SHERBET POWDER.— Ingredients — Half lb. of white 
sugar, ^ lb. of carbonate of foda, and ^ lb. of tartaric acid, 
40 or 50 drops of essence of lemon. 

Mix the sugar, tartaric acid, and carl^onate of soda. They 
must be very dry ; then stir all together and run througli a hair 
sieve. Add the lemon drops, and put all into a wide-mouthed 
bottle anil cork down close. When using be sure the spoon is 
dry that you take the powder out with. 

1164. PERSIAN SHERBET— Ingredients— 6 or S s;reen stalks 
of rhuliarb, 3 i..iuts of water, ^ lb. of raisins or tigs, sliced, a 
small quantity of rose water and orange or lemon syrup to 

tasto. 

Boil in the water the rhubarb, and raisins or figs. When the 
water has boiled about thirty minutes, strain and stir in the 
remaining ingredients. 



Beverages. Mrs. clarke's cookery hook. 315 

1165. ITOTB ATI (1)— Ingredients— i lb. ot amicot kernels, the 
same of cherry kernels, 1 quart of brandy, 2 lbs. of white 
siigar. 

Infuse the apricot and cherry kernels in the brandy. Stir 
from time to time for three weeks ; then pour off the liquid from 
the kernels. Melt the sugar in the water. Mix all together 
and filter. 

1166. ITOYBATJ (2).— Ingredients— 1 gallon of 'whiskey, 3 lbs. of 
loaf sugar, the rind and juice of three large lemons, 1 lb. of 
bitter almonds blanched and bruised in a mortar. 

Let all the ingredients stand in a covered jar for six weeks* 
stirring daily, then filter through blotting paper and bottle it* 

1167. SODA 011BAM-— Ingredients — 2^ lbs. of loaf sugar, 2 oz. 
of tartaric acid, 1 qt. of hot water, beaten whites of 3 eggs, 
flavor to taste. 

Dissolve the sugar and tartaric acid in the water ; when cold 
add the beaten whites of the eggs, stirring well. Flavor with 
whatever is best liked — lemon, orange, raspberry, or currant. 
Bottle for use, and when wanted put two tablespoonfuls into a 
tumbler of water, adding as much carbonate of soda as will lie 
on a sixpence. 

1168. DISTILLED 'WATEIl. 

This, the purest state of water, may be readily obtained by 
fixing a curved tin tube, three or four feet long, to the spout of 
a tea-kettle, and conducting its free end into a jar placed in a 
basin of cold water, and enveloped with a wet towel. The softer 
the water is, the better solvent it is of all soluble animal and 
vegetable substances ; hence Distilled Water, being free from 
any foreign ingredients, is necessarily the softest of all water, 
and consequently it is well adapted not only for diluting in 
febrile affections, but for pervading the minutest vessels, and 
improving their secreting powers. Distilled water is mawkish 
to the taste; this is easily corrected by pouring it from one jug 
to another, successively, for ten or fifteen minutes, so as to in- 
volve in it a quantity of atmospheric air. 

1169. aOOSEBEEHY, OUEEAITT, EASFBEERY, AITD 
STEA'WSEBUY "WATEBS- 

Mash either of tiie fruits when ripe, and press out the juice 
through a hair sieve ; add a little water to it, and give it a boil; 
then filter it through a flannel bag ; some syrup, a little lemon 
juice and water to make it palatable, but rich, although not too 
sweet, which is often a fault with these and compotes. Ice 
them the same as wine, ailtl serve. 



3l6 MRS. Cr.AKKF.'s COOtCERV ftOOR. I?EVERAGES. 



1170. RHUBAUB WATER- — I"gi*e<lionts— Some sticks of rhu- 
barb, a (jiiart of water, sugar and lemon juice. 

Cut up the rhubarb (about six or eight sticks, but it depends 
on their lenj^nh), without peeling them. Put them in astewpan, 
add the water and boil for quarter of an hour. Then strain 
into a jug and add the sugar and lemon juice. When cool it is 
fit for use. 

1171. WHITE CURRAITT COllDIAL.-Tngredient.s- l rinnrt 
of whiskey or brandy, 1 pt. currant juice. 1 lb. w hite sugar, 
i of an ounce of ginger (poundefl), and the rind of 1 lemon. 

Mix all well together, and let it stand ten days or a fortnight, 
then filter through blotting paper. 

1172. A STRONG- CORDIAL.— Ingredients — 1 qnnrt each of 
peppermint water and rectified spirits of wine, 1 lb. of lump 
sugar. 

Melt the sugar in the peppermint water and add the spirits of 
wine, 

1173. SEIDLITZ POWDERS. 

Two drams of tartarized soda, and two scruples of birarbon- 
ate of soda for the blue packet, and thirty grains of tartaric 
acid for the white paper. 

1174. EFFBRVESCZira SALUTE DRATTQETS. 

White sugar powdered, eight ounces ; tartaric acid two ounces; 
sesquicarbonate of soda, two ounces ; essence of lemon, a few 
drops. Mix well, and keep in a corked bottle. 

1175. OZDZB. 

For making this agreeablebever.ige, take red-streaked pip- 
pins, pearmains, gennetings, golden pippins, «&c., when they 
are so ripe that they may be shaken from the tree with toler- 
able ease ; bruise or grind them very small, and when reduced 
to a mash, put them into a hair bag, and squeeze them out by 
degn es : next put the liquor, strained through a fine hair sieve, 
into a cask well matched : then mash the pulp with a little 
warm water, adding a fourth part, when pressed out, to the 
cider. To make it work kindly, heat a little honey, three 
whites of eggs, and a little flour, together : put them into a fine 
rag, and let them hang down by a string to the middle of the 
cider cask : then put in a pint of new ale yeast pretty warm, 
and let it clear itself from dross five or six days ; after which 
draw it off from the lees into smaller casks or bottles, as you 
think proper. If you bottle it take care to leave the liquor an 
inch short of the corks, lest the bottles burst by the fermenta- 



Beverages, mrs. Clarke's cookery book. 317 

tion. Should any such danger exist, you may perceive it by 
the hissing of the air through the corks ; when it will be neces- 
oary to open them, to let out the fermenting air. Apples of a 
better taste produce the strongest cider ; but you must observe 
never to mix summer and winter fruit together. 

1176. OVBJIAITT AITD EASFSEEUT S7ET7F. 

Take eight pounds of very ripe currants, red and white ; pick 
off all the stalks, and put them into a wide earthen pan ; then 
take them up in handt'uls and squeeze them till the juice is all 
crushed out of them, which will take some time. Leave them 
in the pan with the juice for twenty-four hours. Put two 
pounds of raspberries in a saucepan with two teacupfuis of 
water, and boil them for a few minutes till they are all crushed. 
Then pass all the currants and raspberries through a hair-sieve, 
pressing them with a wooden spoon to extract all the juice. If 
the juice should be very thick, pass it also through a jelly-bag. 
Weigh the juice, and for every pound of it put two pounds of 
loaf-sugar, broken into large pieces. Put the sugar into a pre- 
servingpan with one pint of water; pour all the juice on it. 
Let it boil for half an hour, stirring frequently ; then put it into 
small bottles, and cork it for use. Two tablespoonfuls in a 
tumbler of water make a very refreshing d'ink in summer. 
Cherry-syrup may be made in the same way with Morella 
cherries. 

1177. S ARS ^FAEILLA (simple deCOCtlOXL).— Ingredients— 
5 oz. of sarsaparilla chips, 4 pints of water. 

Digest the chips in the water, let it simmer gently for two 
hours ; take out the chips, bruise and replace them in the water; 
boil down to two pints and strain. 

117s. SAESAFAHZLLA (compound, decoction). 

This is made by adding to the above quantity while boiling, 
sassafras (sliced), quaiacum wood (rasped), and liquorice-root 
(bruised), of each ten drachms. Meyereon roots, three drachms. 
Boil for fifteen minutes and strain. 



WINES & BRANDIES. 

The high price of foreign wine renders the making good 
wine an object of no mean importance in domestic economy, 
and many excellent wines may be made with very little 
trouble, and at a trifling expenoe. Every person who 
possesses an extensive garden will find it more advanta- 
geous to use their surplus fruit for making wine, than to 
dispose of it by sale. 

The process of wine-making is by no means so trouble- 
some or laborious as brewing ; and wine, when well made, 
w'.ll keep almost any length of time : indeed age, instead of 
deteriorating, adds to its goodness; and very good Canadian 
wines may be made at a trifling expense. 



1179. BOTTLIN& OP "WINE. 

The secret ci bottling wine with success consists in the 
simple exercise of care and clcan-liness. The bottles should be 
all sound, clean, and dry, and perfectly free from the least 
mustiness or other odor. The corks should be of the best 
quality, and immediatdy before being placed in the bottles 
should be compressed by means of a " cork squeezer." For 
superior or very delicate wines, the corks are usually prepared 
by placing them in a tub or copper, covering them with 
weights to keep them down, and then pouring over them boil- 
in"^ water, holding a little pearlash in solution. In this state 
they are allowed to reinain for twenty-four hours, when they 
are drained and re-immcrsed for a second twenty-four hours in 
hot water, after which they are well washed and soaked in 
several successive portions of clean rain-water, drained, dried 
out of contact with dust, put into paper bags, and hung up in 
a dry place for use. The wine should be clear and brilliant, 
and if it be not so, it must undergo the process of " fining " 
befo're being bottled. In fact, it is a common practice with some 
persons to periorm this operation whether the wine requires it 
or not ; as, if it has been mixed and doctored, it " amalgamates 
and ameliorates the various flavors." The bottles, corks, and 

31S 



Wines, &c. mrs. Clarke's cookery book. 319 

wine being ready, a fine clear day should be preferably chosen 
for bottling, and the utmost cleanliness and care should be 
exercised during the process. Great caution should also be 
observed to avoid shaking the cask so as to disturb the bottoms. 
The remaining portion that cannot be drawn off cle-ar should 
be passed through the " wrne-bag,"' and when bottled should 
be set apart as inferior to the rest. The coopers, to prevent 
breakage and loss, place each bottle, before corking it, in a 
small bucket, having a bottom made of soft cork, 'I'hey thus 
seldom break a bottle, though they "flog " in the corks very 
bard. When the wine is all bottled it is stored in a cool cellar, 
and on no account on the bottles' bottoms, or in damp straw, 
but on their sides, in sweet dry sawdust or sand. 

1180. TO REPUTE LIQUORS. 

Dissolve two ounces in one quart of cider, beer, or wine ; it 
should not be boiled, though warmed sufficient to dissolve it ; 
put in when dissolved into a barrel of the liquor, where it 
should be well stirred, and when clear racked off. It should 
be put into cider as soon as it is draw n from the press, and 
should be racked as so(m as clear; if it be not racked off at a 
proper time, a fixed air will form and cause the sediment to 
mingle again with the whole mass. 

1181. FALSIFIED WIITE. 

One of the chief means of disguising a falsified wine is the 
use of various coloring-matters, which are now offered every- 
wherer in France by private trade circulars. Public attention has 
been directed to this in Paris; and it is stated thatalthough chem- 
istry is powerless to discover the presence of these dyes, there 
nevertheless exists a simple means of detecting them which 
cannot be too widely known. Some of the wine must be heated ; 
and, when it boils, a piece of white flannel should be well 
dipped in it and allowed to dry. If the flannel, when washed, 
still retains a red or reddish tinge, it is stated to be proof 
positive that the color of the wine has been artificially obtained, 

1182. TO MULL WINE. 

Boil some spice in a little water till the flavor is gained, then 
add an equal quantity of port, sugar and nutmeg to taste ; boil 
together and serve with crisp toast. 

1183. Another "Way. 

Boil a small piece of cinnamon and some grated nutmeg a 
few minutes m a large cupful of water, then pour to it a pint of 
port wine, adding sugar to taste, heat it up and it will be ready 
to serve. Britisn wine can be used in place of port if desired* 



330 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Wines, &c. 

1184. LEMOIT ^DTB- — Ingredionts—One gal. water, 3 lbs. of 

ftowdered loaf Bug&r, rinds of 4 lemons, juiue of the lemons, ^ 
b. sugar, 1 bUcc of toast, yeas. 

Add the sugar to the water,boiling twenty minutes, skimming; 
well, pare the rinds of the lemons very thin, squeeze out all the 
juiceof the lemons and mix wit)i the suyar ; boil until it be- 
comefl a thick syrup ; add it to the water and rinds, and when 
the whole is just lukewarm put in a slice of toast covered on 
both sides with yeast. Allow it to work in an open tub two 
days, then put it into a cask. Let it stand three minutes before 
bottling. 

1185. GRAPE "WIITB. — Ingredients— 20 lbs. of fresh fruit, IJ 
gals, of water, 10 lbs. of grp^nulated sugar. 

Put the grapes into a crock, pour over the water, which must 
be boiling ; when conveniently cool, press well with the hands. 
Let it remain three days on the pomace covered over with a 
cloth. Then squeeze out all the juice and add the sugar. Leave 
for a week longer in the crock. Then remove the scum. Strain 
and bottle, leaving uncorked until the fermentation is over. 
Then strain and rebottle, corking tight. Place the bottles on 
their sides in a cool place. 

1186. Q-RAPE^IITB (2).— Ingredients— To a eallon of bruised 
grapes put a gallon of water ; to a gallon of wine put 3 lbs. 
of sugar. 

Let the truit atid water stand a week, without stirring. Then 
draw it off and add sugar in the above proportion ; put it into 
a vessel, but do not stop it till it has done hissing. 

1187. APRICOT WllTB.— Ingredients —12 lbs. of apricots, 2 gals, 
of water, to every quart of liquor allow 6 oz. of white sugar. 

Wipe, clean and cut the apricots, which must be ripe ; add 
the water and let them boil till the water has thoroughly im- 
bibed the flavor of the fruit ; then strain the liquor through a 
hair sieve ; add the sugar,and boil it again ; skim carefully, and 
when the scum has ceased to rise pour into an earthen vessel. 
Next day bottle it off, putting a lump of sugar into every 
bottle. 

1188. DAMSON "WINB.— Ingredients— 8 lbs. of fruit, 1 gallon 
of water ; to every gallon of liquor add 2^ lbs. of good 
sugar. 

Gather the fruit dry, weigh, and bruise them with your hands. 
Boil the water ; then pour it upon your fruit scalding hot, and 
let it stand two days ; then draw it off, put it into a clean 
cask, and add sugar ; fill the cask ; the longer it stands the 



I Wines, &c. mks. clarke's cookkry liOoK. ^21 

better. It will keep very well a year in the cask. Afterwards 

bottle it off. The small damson is the best. Put a very small 
lumpofl oaf sugar into every bottle. 

1189. GOOSEBEHEY "WINE (l).— Ingredients— One peck of half 

lipo gooacljiirit's, allow ."{ 11)8. white sugar to a gallon of fruit. 
The fruit should be gathered in dry weather ; pick and bruise 
them in a tub, Press as much as possible without breaking 
the seeds ; add the sugar and stir until dissolved, then fill a 
cask or vessel with it. Let it stand for a fortnight or three 
weeks, and set in a cool place. Then strain oft' the sediment; 
leave again for two or three months and then bottle. 

1190. GOOSEBEERY "WINE (2).— Ingredients— Six lbs. of green 

gooaeberries to every gallon of water, 3 lbs. of wiiite sugar. 
The gooseberries must be green [no/ ripe) and must be per- 
fectly sound. Top and tail them, place in a tub and bruise 
them. Be particular that every beny is broken, but do not 
crush the seeds ; warm the water and pour on the fruit. Now 
press and squeeze it to a pulp ; cover for a day and a night. 
Meantime prepare a coarse bag, and at the end of the staled 
time strain through it, extracting «// the juice. Put into a tub, 
add the sugar, stir until it is dissolved and set in a \\aim place; 
keep it closely covered, allowing it to ferment for two days. At 
the end of that time draw into clean casks, tilt them a little 
on one side, and when the scum has settled, remove it and fill 
with the remaining juice. As soon as the fermentation has 
stopped, plug the casks upright, filling a third time, if needful, 
put the bungs in loosely and when the fermentation is over 
drive the bungs in tightly, and a small hole made to give vent. 
After six months draw ofTfrom the dregs into casks rinsed 
with brandy. Allow to stand a month, then examine, and if 
clear, bottle, if not, clear with one ounce of isinglass to eight 
gallons of wine. 

1191. GIlTGEEi WllTB.— Ingredients— 7 qts. of water, 6 lbs. of 
sugar, "2 oz of the best ginger, bruised, and the rinds of 3 
good-sized lemons, boiled together ; ^ lb. of raisins, 1 spoonful 
of yeast, i oz. of isinglass, ^ pint of brandy. 

When lukewarm, put the whole into a cask, wiih ilie juice of 

the lemons, and the raisins ; add the yeast, and stir the wine 

every day for ten days. When the fermentation has ceased, 

add the isinglass and brandy ; bung close, anJ in two months 

t will be fit to bottle. 

1192. OHERHY T^INB.— Ingredients— To every gallon of liquor 

2 11)3 ( f coarse sugar. 
Pull off tlie stalks of cherries, and wash the latter without 
U 



32a MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Winks, Sec. 

breaking the stones ; press it hard through a hair bap, and let 
it work as long as it makes a noise in the vessel ; stop it up 
close for a month or more, and when it is fine, draw it into 
dry bottles. If it makes them fly, open them all for a moment, 
and slop them up ajjain. It will bo fit to drink in three mon: 

1193. STONE'S PATEITT RHUBARB "WINE. -Ingredients 
To every gallon of li(iuor, 3 lbs. of white sugar. 

When the green stalks or stems of the rhubarb plant are ar- 
rived at their full size, which will generally be about the middle 
of the month of May, pluck them ; then cut off the leaves and 
throw them away ; bruise the stalks in a large mortar, or oilier 
convenient vessel, so as to reduce them to a £idp ; put the 
pulp into an open vat or tub, and to every five pounds' weijjht 
of the pulp, add one gallon of cold spring water. Let it infuse 
for three days, stirring it three or four times a day. On the 
fourth day press the pulp in the usual manner, and strain off 
the liquor, which place in an open vat or tub, and to every 
gallon of the liquor add three pounds of white sugar, stirring it 
until the sugar is quite dissolved ; then let it rest, and in from 
four to six days the fermentation will begin to subside, and a 
crust or head will be formed, which is to be skimmed off, or 
the liquor drawn from it, just when the crust or head begins 
to crack or separate ; then put the wine into a cask, but do not 
then stop it down. If it should begin to ferment in the cask, 
rack it into another cask ; in about a fortnight stop down the 
cask, and let it remain till the beginning of the month of 
March in the next year, then ruck it, and again stop down the 
cask ; but if, from continued slight fermentation in the cask, 
the wine then should have lost any of its original sweetness, 
put into the racked wine a suQicient quantity of loaf sugar to 
sweeten it, and stop down the cusk, taking care in all cases 
that the cask should be full. In a month or six weeks it will 
be fit to bottle, and in the summer to drink ; but the wine will 
be improved by remaining a year or more in the rack after it 
has been ra<:kod. The plant in the autumn will produce a 
second crop, when another quantity of wine can be made. 

USi. RHTTBARB OHAMPACUTE— Ingredients— To every lb. 
of bruised riiubarb stalka add 1 qt. of cold spring water ; to 
every gallon of the juice add 2.J lbs. of white sugar, and to 10 
gals, allow a bottle of pale brandy, 1 oz. isinglass. 

Put the rhubarb in the water, and let it stand three days 
stirring twice a day. Then press and strain it through a siei'e! 
and to every gallon of the juice add two and a half pounds 
of loaf sugar, barrel it, and to ten gallons allow a bottle of pale 



Wines, &c. mrs. clarkfAs cookery hook. 3a j 



brandy. Put the JsinRlass in a muslin bajj, and suspend it in the 
barrel by a string. When it has cea.sed fermenting fasten up 
the barrel clopely. It will be ready to bottle in six months. 
Some black or red currant juice added improves the cotor. 

1105. BLAOKBERIIT WllTE.— Ingredients -Some ripe black- 
berries, Imiliiig water Hullioiont to cover them, to 10 qunrta of 
liquor allow 1 lb. of sugar, 4 o/. of iuinglasB, 1 pint of white 
wine. 
Pat the henit's into a Inrge vessel of wood or stone with a 
tap to it ; pour on the boiliny; water as above dircc ed, and, as 
soon as the heat will permit, bruise well with the hand ; let it 
stand closely covered till all the berries begin to rise to the 
top, which will take place in three or fou' days, then draw 
off the clear part into another vessel, add the sugar and stir 
well; leave to stand for a week or ten days, then draw off 
through a jelly bag. Lay the isinglass in the wine to steep for 
twelve hours, the next miming boil it on a slow fire till dis- 
solved, then take a gallon of the blackberry juice, put in the 
dissolved isinglass, boil them together, pour all into the vessel, 
and let it stand a few days to purge and settle ; draw it off, and 
keep it in a cool place. 

1196. RAISIN WINE.— Ingredients— To every gallon of sprin* 
water allow 8 Iba. of good raisins, brandy of the tincst quality. 

Stir the fruit and water in a large tub every day for a month ; 
then press the raisins in a horsehair bag as dry as possible ; 
put the liquor into a cask, and when it has done hissing pour 
in a bottle of the best brandy ; stop it close for twelve months; 
then rack it off, but without the dregs ; filter them through a 
bag of flannel of three or four folds, add the clear to the quan- 
tity, and pour one or two quarts of brandy according to the size 
of the vessel. Stop it up, and at the end of three years you 
may either bottle it or drink it from the cask. Raisin wine 
would be extremely good if made rich of the fruit, and kept 
long, which improves the flavor greatly. 

1197, FAMILY "WINE (ExCOUoat).— Ingredients-Equal pro- 
portions of black, red, and white currants, ripe cherries (black 
hearts are the best), raspberries. To each gal. of the liquor 
3 lbs. of sugar ; lastly, to every 9 gals. 1 quart of good Cog- 
nac brandy. 

To four lbs. of the mixed fruit, well bruised, put one gallon 
of clear soft water ; steep three days and nights, in open ves- 
sels, frequently stirring up the ma^via ; then strain through a 
hair sieve, press the residuary pulp to dryness, and add its 
juice to the former ; in each gallon of the mixed liquors dis- 



324 Mrs clarkk's cookerv nooK. Wines, &c. 



solve three pounds of good sugar ; let the solution stand 
another three duys and nights, frequently skimming and stir- 
ring it up; then turn it into casks, which should remain full, 
and purging at the bung-hole, about two weeks. Lastly, to 
every nine gallons put in the above proportion of brandy, and 
bung down. 

%'•' If it docs not soon become fine, a steeping of isinglass 
may be stirred into the liquid, in the profjortion of about half 
an ounce to nine gallons. The addition of one ounce of cream 
of tartar to each gallon of the fermentable liquor improves the 
quality of the wine, and makes it resemble more nearly the 
produce of the grape. 

1198. BLAOZ OR WHITE ELDER WINE.-Ingre.lients- 

To every pint of juice \.\ piiilH of water, to every gallon of 
this liquor H llw. of good moist augar, the whites of 4 or 5 
eggs, ale yeast. 
Gather the elder berries ripe and dry, pick them, and bruise 
them with your hands, and strain them ; set the liquor by in 
glazed earthen vessels for twelve hours to settle ; set in a 
kettle over the fire, and when it is ready to boil clarify it with 
the whites of four or five eggs, let it boil one hour, and when it 
is almost cold work it with strong ale yeast, and tun it, filling 
up the vessel from time to time with the same liquor, saved on 
purpose, as it sinks by working. In a month's time, if the ves- 
sel holds about eight gallons, it will be fme and fit to bottle, 
and, after bottling, will be fit to drink in twelve months : but 
it the vessel be larger it must stand longer in proportion, three 
or four months at least for a hogshead. All liquors must be 
fined before they are bottled, or else they will grow sharp, and 
ferment in the bottles. 

*j^* Add to every gallon of this liquid one pint of strong 
mountain wine, but not such as has the /><)rai/i/o, or nag's skin 
flavor. This wine will be very strong and pleasant. 

1199. RASPBERRT "WllTE (1).— Ingredients— To 1 qt. of picked 

raspberries allow I (^t. of water; to a gallou of fruit allow 3 
lbs. of white sugar. 

Pour the water on the fruit, bruise them and let them stand 
for two days ; strain off the liquor and the sugar ; when dis- 
solved put the liquor into a barrel, and when fine, which will 
be in about two months, bottle it, and to each bottle put a 
spoonful ot brandy, or a glass of wine. 

1200. RASPBEREiY WllTB ("2).— Ingredients— Fruit; to a quart 
of juice allow 1 lb. of sugar, and '2 ([ts. of white wine. 

Bruise the raspberries witti a spoon, and strain into a stone 



Wines, &c. mrs. clarke's cookery book. 325 

vessel; add the sii^^.ir, stirring well together, and cover closely; 
let it stand three days and then strain off clear. Add the 
white wine and bottle. 

l'20l. RASPBERRY AND OTJRRAITT 'WTlTa.-InKredfents- 
All(»\v !i (|t. of water to every .'{ pta. of fruit; to a qt. of liquor 
add 1 II). of Nugar. 
Bruise the fruit (after carefully removing any that are bad 
or mouldy), adding the water ; let it stand a day, then strain 
and add the sugar ; leave again for three or four days, remov- 
ing the scum as it rises. Then bottle it. 

1202. BLAOIK OITRRANT "WIITB— Ingredients -Allow cqnal 

auiiatities of jiiiio and water, to every 'A ([in. of liquor add 3 
)H. of pure moist sugar, 3 qts. of brandy to 40 of wine. 
Put it into a cask, preserving a little for filling up ; put the cask 
into a warm, dry room and the liquor will ferment of itself ; skim 
ofifthe refuse when the fermentation shall be over, and fill up 
with the reserved liquor; when it has ceased working, pour in 
brandy. Hung it close for nine months, then bottle it, and drain 
the thick part through a jelly-bag, until it be clear, and bottle 
that. Keep it ten or twelve months. 

1203. ORANGE WINE.— Ingredients— To make 9 gals, take 11 

gallons of soft water, in which boil the whites of ."30 eggs, 200 
oranges, 40 lemons, and '50 Seville oranges, should they he 
preferred to the lemons, 30 lbs. of white sugar. If required, 
ferment with i pt. of yeast, 1 gal. to 1 J of French brandy. 

Pare the fruit as thin as possible, and upon the parings pour 
the water, boiling. Upon this juice, having stood ten or twelve 
hours, and being strained, run the expressed juice of the or- 
anges and lemons, adding the sugar ; if required, ferment with 
half a pint of yeast four or five days, when the wine may be 
casked, and brandy added, when tbe fermentation subsides. 
Some substitute sherry, but it is inferior to brandy, and gives 
an alien flavor to orange wine ; bung down closely, but watch 
the process of fermentation ; in six months it 'will be perfectly 
fine, this wine being less liable to remain turbid than any of 
our other wines. By the directions already given a wine from 
any fruit may be made, observing that the more sugar is used, 
the longer time it will require to complete the vinous fermen- 
tation. 

1204. liIALT WIITB.— Ingredients— To 28 lbs. of sugar allow 5 
gals, of water, 6 qts. each of sweet-wort and tun, 2^ lbs. of 
raisins, 10 oz. of candy, I pt. of brandy. 

Mix the sugar and water and simmer for a quarter of an hour, 
skim weU and pour the liquor into a tub ; set aside to cool) 



326 MRS. ct.arkfAs cookery book. Wines, &c. 

then mix in the sweet-wort and tun ; allow to stand undisturbed 
for three days, then put into a barrel to allow it to ferment for 
another three days. Bung the cask and keep for two or three 
months ; at the end of this time add the raisins, brandy and 
candy, and in five or six months time bottle the wine. 

1205. ORAITCI-B BEANDT. -Ingredients— Chips of 18 Seville 
oranges, .S qta. of brandy, 2 (jts. of spring water, 1^ lbs. of 
white sugar, the white of an egg. 

Put the orange chips in the brandy, let them steep a fort- 
riight in a stone bottle stopped close ; boil the water with the 
sugar, gently for an hour, clarify the water and the sugar with 
the white of an egg, then strain it through a jelly-bag an d 
boil it nearly half away ; when cold strain the brandy into the 
syrup. 

1206. LBlfEOlT BRAITDT.— Ingredients— Five qta. of water to 
1 gal. of brandy, 2 doz. lemons, 2 lbs. of the best sugar, and 
3 pints of milk. 

Pare the lemons thin, steep the peel in the brandy twelve 
hours, and squeeze the lemons upon the sugar ; then put the 
water to it and mix all the ingredients together. Boil the 
milk and pour it in hot. Let it stand twenty-four hours and 
then strain it. 

1207. CHERRY BRANDY (ExceUoat) (l).-lngrcdient3-To 
every lb. of Morella cherries allow j lb. sugar, brandy 

The cherries for this purpose must not be too ripe and should 
be fresh ; remove the stalks, and place into your bottlcs(which 
must be quite dry) and add sugar ; when you have filled your 
bottles with the cherries and sugar, cover with brandy ; cork 
and tie a bladder over. Be careful not to put too much sugar, 
or the cherries will become very hard. Whiskey is a very good 
substitute for brandy. 

1208. CHERRY BRANDY (2). -Ingredients — Eight lbs. of 
cherries, a gallon of the best brandy. 

Stone the cherries, and add to them the brandy ; bruise the 
stones in a mortar and add them to the cherries and brandy. 
Cover close and leave for six weeks ; then pour off clear from 
the sediment and bottle. This makes a rich cordial. Some 
prefer the fruit bruised instead of being whole. 

1209. CARAWAY BRAITDY— Ingredients— One oz. of cara- 
way seeds, 6 oz. of white sugar, 1 qt. of brandy. 

^Steep the caraway seeds and sugar in the brandy ; let it 
stand nine days, then draw it ofF and it will make an excellent 
cordial. 



SICK ROOM OOOKERY. 



There is sickness everywhere, and as it falls to the lot of 
most women at some tune in their lives to be nurse or cook 
for the sick, a few hints may be useful. Every woman with 
a tender, loving heart, no matter what her position, will try 
in such a case to tempt the appetite of the afflicted with her 
own delicate cookincf and serving, the result being in many 
cases, returning health, and in any case having the satisfac- 
tion of knowing you have done what you could. An anony- 
mous writer says : — 

" Invalids soon realize their dependence on others. I will 
say this much to every family that has an invalid charge, be 
kind to them ; don't be always reminding them of expenses; 
do not make them feel that they are a burden to you. God 
sends the affliction upon them. They would not be a burden 
to you if they could help it, and I believe when the final day of 
judgment comes, the {jreat Ruler of the Universe will deal with 
you as you have dealt with the sick ones. And with many the 
sentence will be, " Ye knew your duty, but you did it not." It 
is said "No physician ever weighed out medicine to his patient 
with half so much exactness and care as God weiglied out to us 
every trial ; not one grain too much does He ever permit to be 
put in the scale." It is hard for us to feel that our afflictions 
are sent to us for some wise purpose. Our burdens seem more 
than we can bear, and it is still harder for us to say " Thy will, 
not mine, be done." He kind to the sick ones ; their lot in life 
is hard enough. Throw a ray of sunshine across their path. 
There are a thousand and one ways that you can brighten their 
lives, by a little attention. There are many ways we could make 
others happy if we only would try, and we would be so much 
happier ourselves. Just think of the poor invalid that is con- 
fined to the house, seeing the same things day after day (yes, 
and often year after year), until they know every seam in the 
carpet, every flower on the wall — yes, every spot on the furni- 
ture. Their eyes will ache from the very sameness, and they 
feel that it would be a blessing to close them in utter oblivion. 

327 



328 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Sick Room 



It ought to be not only a pleasure, but a stern duty for us to light- 
en their burdens and make life bearable to them." 

In preparing dishes for the sick, it is needful to combine 
the strongest nourishment with the simplest seasoning, as 
they require food which will not need too much exertion of 
the digestive power. Sweet-breads, broiled to a nice brown; 
oysters roasted in the shell, or plainly stewed ; clam broth, 
and even calves' brains, are highly recommended as articles 
of diet, which will give the most nutritious food in the small- 
est quantities. All kinds of gruel are unpalatable to some 
persons, but fortunately, tastes differ, and there are those 
who will take with a decided relish large bowlfuls of flour, 
oatmeal, and even Indian-meal porridge. Groats, however, 
are considered the most delicate of all such preparations, 
and if well made, and flavored with a tablespoonful of old 
Jamaica or whisky, with a little sugar added to it, it is not a 
disagreeable compound. 

Never set before the sick a large quantity of food ; tempt 
with a very small portion delicately cooked and tastefully 
served. If not eaten directly, remove from the sick room 
without delay, as no food should be allowed to stand there. 
Do not give the same food often, as variety is charming. 
Never keep the sick waiting, always have something in 
readiness — a little jelly, beef tea, stewed fruit, gruel, etc. 
It will be found more tempting to serve any of these in 
glasses. If much milk is used, keep it on ice. Let all in- 
valid cookery be simple ; be careful to remeve every particle 
of fat from broth or beef-tea before servmg. 

The best diet for brain workers who take proper care of 
their health is brown bread, cream, fresh butter, oatmeal, 
fresh cheese (if it agrees), eggs, fish, and a moderate amount 
of meat. Oysters may be used freely in their season, and 
fruits should not be omitted. There should be variety and 
change as the season and health require. The diet should 
be varied in kind and form quite frequently, though not 
necessarily every day. Even in health, the best viands 
when continued from day to day become unpalatable, and 
even nauseous. An occasional change of diet, in short, is 
indispensable to a proper relish for food, and the mainten- 
ance of the appetite and good health. 



Cookery. mrs. Clarke's cookery hook. 329 



1210. VEAL BROTH.— Ingreilicnts— One and a half lbs. of veal, 1 

cloz. sweet almonds, a qt. of spring water, a little salt, 1 pt. 
of boiling water. 

Remove all the fat from the veal, and simmer gently in the 
spring water till it is reduced to a pint ; blanch and pound the 
almonds till they are a smooth paste, then pour over them the 
boiling water very slowly, stirring all the time till it is as 
smooth as milk ; strain both the almond and veal liquors 
through a fine sieve and mix well together, and add the salt and 
boil up again. 

1211. OHIOZEIT SROTH- Ingredients - An old fowl, .3 pints of 
water, a piucli of salt, a blade of mace, (ior 8 peppercorns, a 
very small chopped onion, a few sprigs of sweet herbs. 

Cut up the fowl and put it, bones as well, in a saucepan 
with the water, salt, mace, peppercorns, onion and sweet 
herbs ; let it simmer very gently till the meat is very tender, 
which will take about three hours, skimming well during the 
time. Strain carefully and set aside to cool. 

1212. EGQ- BROTH- — Ingredients — An egg, i pint of good un- 
tlav'ored veal or mutton broth quite hot, salt, toast. 

Beat the egg well in a broth basin ; when frothy add the 
broth, salt to taste, and serve with toast. 

1213. EEL BROTH-— Ingredients — Half lb. of small eels, 3 pints 
of water, some parsley, 1 slice of onion, a few peppercorns, 
salt to taste. 

Clean the eels and set them on the fire with the water, par- 
sley, onion, and peppercorns ; let them simmer till the eels are 
broken and the broth good. Add salt to taste and strain. 
These ingredients should make about a pint and a half of 
broth. 

1214. BEEF BROTH(l)— Ingredients— One lb. of good lean beef, 
2 t[ts. of cold water. \ a teacup of tapioca, a small piece of 
parsley, an onion if liked, pepper and salt. 

Soak the tapioca onehour,cut in small pieces the beef, put in 
a stewpan the above proportion of water, boil slowly (keeping 
well covered) one and a half hours, theR add the tapioca, and 
boil half an hour longer. Some add with the tapioca a small 
piece of parsley, and a slice or two of onion ; strain before 
serving, seasoning slightly with pepper and salt. It is more 
strengthening to add, just before serving, a soft poached egg. 
Rice may be used instead of tapioca, straining the broth, and 
adding one or two tablespoons of rice (soaked for a short time), 
andthen boiliniihali an hour. 



330 MRS. CLARKE'S COOKERY BOOK. SiCK RoOM 



1215. BEEP BROTH (2).--Ingreclients— One and a half lbs. of 
linely-u>inced beef, 1 qt. of cold water, a little aalt, and '2 oz. 
of rice or barley. 

Simmer for four hours, then boil for ten minutes, strain, 
skim ofif the fat and serve. 

1216. SOOTOS BROTH-— lugredienta— The liquor in which a leg 
of mutton, piece of beef or old fowl has been boiled, barley, 
vegetables cTaopped small, a cup of rough oatmeal mixed in 
cold water, salt and pepper to taste. 

Add to the liquor some barley and vegetables, cliopped 
small, i« sufficient quantity to make the broth quite thick. 
Tlie necessary vegetables are carrots, turnips, onions, and 
cabbage, but any other.s may be added ; old (not parched) 
peas and celery are good additions. When the vegetables are 
boiled tender add the oatmeal to the broth, salt and pepper 
to taste. This very plain preparation is genuine Scotch broth 
as served in Scotland ; with any coloring or herbs, etc., added, 
it is not real Scotch broth. It is extremely palatable and 
wholesome in its plain form. 

1217. HASTY BROTH. —Tugredients — A bono or trwo of a neck 
or loin of mutton, ^ pt. of water, a piece of tliyme, some 
parsley, a slice of onion. 

Remove the fat and skin from the meat, set it on the fire in 
a small tin saucepan ttiat has a lid, with the water, the meat 
being first beaten and cut into pieces ; add the seasoning. Let 
it boil rapidly, skim it nicely ; take off the co\"er if likely to be 
too weak. Half an hour is sufficient to make it in. 

1218. BROTH (a Splendid. Erotli for "Woakness).— Ingre- 
dients — 2 lbs. of loin of mutton, a large handful of ehcrvil, 
2 qts. of water. 

Boil the m&at with the chervil in the water till reduced to 
one quart. Take off part of the fat. Any other herbs or roots 
may be added. Take half a pint three or four times a day. 

1219. BROTH (Beef, Mutton and Veal).— ingredients -3 lbs. of 

lean l)eef, 1 lb. scrag of veal, 1 lb. of scrag of mutton, some 
sweet herbs, 10 peppercorns, 5 qts. of water, 1 onion. 

Put the meat, sweet herbs, and peppercorns into a nice tin 
saucepan, with the water, and simmer till reduced to three 
quarts. Remove the fat when cold. Add the onion, if ap- 
proved. 

1220. CALVES' PEET BROTH. — Ingredients — Two calves' 
feet, 3i qts. of water, a large teacupful of jelly, ^ glasa of 



COOKKRY. MRS. CLARKF.'S COOKERY ROOK. 33 T 



BwePu wine, a little sugar, nutmeg, yolk of 1 egg, a piece of 
butter the size of a nutmeg, a piece of fresh lemon peel. 

Boil the calves' feet in the water, strain and put aside ; when 
to be used take off the fat, put the jelly into a saucepan with 
the wine, sugar and nutmeg ; beat it up till it is ready to boil, 
then take a. little of it and beat gradually to the yolk of egg, 
and adding the butter, stir all together, but don't let it boil. 
Grate the lemon peel into it. 

1221. BEEP TEA (Simplest "Way of Makinff.) 

Cut the beef into very small pieces, and take away all the 
fat. Put it into a stone jar with a pint of water to each pound 
cf beef; tie a double piece of brown paper over the top, and set 
the jar in a cool oven for several hours. Strain the beef tea off 
through a rather coarse strainer, and while it is hot take off 
every speck of fat with paper. If it is wanted stronger, put only 
half that amount of water. Should an oven be not obtainable, 
it will do equally well to place the jar in a large saucepan of 
boiling water ; but it will not do to cook it in a metal saucepan 
without ajar, because an invalid's palate is very sensitive, and 
the tea is sure to acquire an unpleasant flavor. If in the place 
of lean beef some beef bones are used, the tea will become a 
jelly when cold ; it will be less costly and less good. Any sort 
of flavoring may be added to it. A scrap of lemon-peel, a clove, 
a grate of nutmeg, a sprig of any sweet herb, or of parsley, put 
into the jar before cooking, will, any one of them, make a 
pleasant change, and a little ingenuity will soon increase the 
list. Such changes are grateful to a convalescent patient, and 
break the monotony of his life. However, a patient not decided- 
ly convalescent needs nothing but beef and water, often not 
even salt. It is a lengthy process this ;and, if time is wanting 
to carry it out, twenty minutes is quite sufficient to set a cup of 
good beef tea on the table. First of all, prepare half a pint of 
the following 

1222. MEAT JUICE. 

Scrape with a knife, because no cutting divides it finely 
enough, half a pound of beef steak, and remove all the fat and 
skin. Put it into a basin with half a pint ol tepid water, and 
let it stand fifteen minutes or longer. The result is what is 
commonly known as raw beef tea or meat-juice, every year more 
widely used as a restorative for infants as well as adults in cases 
of wasting or acute disease. Its appearance is against it, but 
the taste is simply that of any cold beef tea. Children gener- 
ally take it without difficulty ; but adults, unless they are too 



332 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Sick Room 



weak to have an opinion on the point, have often an insur- 
mountable objection to it. Nothing can then be done but to 
hide it in a colored or covered cup, or to add a little Liebig's 
Extract to conceal the color. The meat -juice is often prepared 
with hydrochloric acid, adding four drops to each pint of water ; 
but we think the above recipe simpler, safer, and more suited 
for general use. Meat-juice is easier to assimilate than any 
form of cooked beef tea, and it is the only sort that may at all 
times be safely given to very young infants. It has saved 
many lives, especially ihose of rickety and wasted children and 
typhoid patients, and it seems right that everyone should know 
how to set about making it. But, to return to our 

122M. QUIOKLT MADE BEEP TEA. 

Take the above juice and meat together, and put it on a slow 
fire. Let it boil for not longer than five minutes, strain it and 
it is ready for use. If it has been carefully scraped there will 
be no fat upon it, but if there should be some it can easily be 
removed with paper. Salt must be added to taste. 

1224. Another Quick Method- 
Scrape the beef as before, and remember that it is useless to 

put in gristle or sinew, because in none of these quick methods 
is there sufficient time to cook it. Set the meat over a very 
slow fire without water for a quarter of an hour, then add warm 
water and simmer for half an hour or longer. 

1225. BEEF TEA CUSTAHD. 

This may be served alone either hot or cold, or a few small 
pieces can be put in a cup of beef tea, which is thus transferred 
into a kind of soupe royale. Beat up an egg in a cup, add a 
small pinch of salt, and enough strong beef tea to half fiUthe cup; 
butter a tiny mould and pour in the mixture. Steam it for 
twenty minutes, and turn it out in a shape. 

1226. SAVORY BEEP TEA— Ingredients — 3 lbs. of beef 

chopped up finely, .3 leeks, 1 onion with G cloves stuck into 
it, 1 small carrot, a little celery seed, a small hunch of herbs 
consisting of thyme, marjoram, and parsley, 1 teaspoonful of 
salt, half a teacupful of mushroom ketchup, and ,3 pints of 
water. 
Prepare according to the directions given in the first recipe. 

1227. MUSH. 

Put some water or milk into a pot and bring it to boil, then 
let the corn meal out of one hand gently into the milk or water 



Cookery. Mrs. clarkk's cookruy book. 333 

and keep stirring with the other until you have got it into a 
pretty stiff state; after which let it stand ten minutes or a 
quarter of an hour or less, or even only one minute, and then 
take it out, and put it into a dish or bowl. This sort of half- 
pudding, half-porridge, you eat either hot or cold, with a little 
salt or without it. It is eaten without any liquid matter, but 
the general way is to have a basin of milk, and taking a lump 
of the mush you put it into the milk, and eat the two together. 
Here is an excellent pudding, whether eaten with milk or with- 
out it ; and where there is no milk it is an excellent substitute 
fur bread, whether you take it hot or cold. It is neither hard 
nor lumpy when cold, but quite li^ht and digestible for the most 
feeble stomachs. 

1228. FOWL (StOTTOd in Taarley). -Tngredienta— One chicken, 
Jj lb. of pearl barley, ouougli milk to cover the barley, only a 
little salt, a bunch of sweet herbs. 

Truss the chicken as for boiling; pkr^ it in a stewpan with 
the well-washed barley; sprinkle a little salt in and the sweet 
herbs ; enough milk to cover the barley ; put it on the fire, and 
let it stew very slowly, continue to add milk as it boils away, 
so that the barley maybe always covered, but not the chicken, 
which should be dressed only by the steam from the milk. A 
small bird will take about three hours. When done serve with 
the milk and barley round it. 

1229. VEGETABLE MARRO'W (Stuffed). -Ingredients- One 
marrow, some mince of either veal or chicken, bread crumbs, 
good gravy. 

Take a good-sized marrow, boil until tender, halve length- 
ways ; remove the seeds, and fill the inside with hot mince; 
join the two sides together, place upon a hot dish, sprinkle with 
grated bread crumbs ; set in the oven to brown for a few min- 
utes. Serve with a boat of good gravy. 

1230. MTTTTON CUTLETS (Dolioata).— Ingredients -Two or 
3 small cutlets from the best end of a neck or loin of mutton 
1 cupful of water or broth, a little salt and a few peppercorns. 

Trim the cutlets very nicely, cut off all the fat, place them 
in a flat dish with enough water or broth to cover them, add 
the salt and peppercorns and allow them to stew gently for two 
hours, carefully skimming off e\ery particle of fat which may 
rise to the top during the process. At the end of this time, 
provided the cutlets have not been allowed to boil fast, they 
will be found extremely ttndcr. Tern thrm wiien half done. 



334 MRS, clarkk's cookkry i!f)oK. ^icK Room 



1231. LAMBS' PRY (rronoll).— Tnsrcdients— Two sots of lambs' 

fry, 2 eggs, Ijread-oiuiiilj.s, oliopped parsley, hot lurd. 

Blanch the Iry ten minutes in boiling water, drain them on a 
sieve, and when quite dry egg ov>;r with a paste brush ; throw 
them into bread-crumbs, with which you have mixed some 
chopped parsley, fry them in very hot lard of a nice light brown 
color, dress pyramidically upon a. napkin, garnish with fried 
parsley, and serve. 

1232. RABBIT (SteV*d).— Ingredients— Two nice young rabbits, 

1 qt. of milk, 1 tablcspoonful of flour, a blade of mace, salt 
and pepper. 
Mix into a smooth paste the flour with half a glass of milk, 
then add the rest of the milk ; cut the rabbits up into conven- 
ient pieces ; place in a stewpan with the other ingredients and 
simmer gently until perfectly tender. 

1233. SWEETBREADS. 

These, when plainly cooked, are well adapted for the conval- 
escent. They should be slowly boiled, and very moderately 
seasoned with salt and cayenne pepper. 

1234. P0R2 JBLLT (Dr. Rat cliff's Restorative) .-ingredi- 

ents. — A leg of well-fed pork, 3 gals, of water, ^oz. of mace, 

the same of nutmeg, salt to taste. 
Take the pork just as cut up, beat it, and break the bone. 
Set it over a gentle fire with the water and simmer until it is 
reduced to one gallon. Let the mace and nutmeg stew with it. 
Strain through a fine sieve. When cold take off the fat. Give 
a large cupful the first and last thing and at noon, putting 
salt to taste. 

1235. SHANS JELLY. — Ingredients — 12 shanks of mutton, 3 
blades of mace, an onion, 20 Jamaica, and 30 or 40 black 
peppers, a bunch of sweet herbs, a crust of bread toasted 
brown, and 3 qts. of watrr. 

Soak the shanks for four hours, then brush and scour them 
very clean. Lay in a saucepan with all the ingredients, pour- 
ing in the water last, and set them near the stove ; let them 
simmer as gently as possible for five hours, then strain and 
place in a cool place. This may have the addition of a pound 
of beef, if approved, for flavor. It is a remarkably good thing 
for persons who are weak. 

1236. ARROWROOT JELLY.— A pt. of water, a glass of sherry, 
a spoonful of brandy, grated nutmeg, and fine sugar, dessert 
spoonful of arrowroot rubbed smooth in two spoonfuls of cold 
water. 

This is a very nourishing disi*- Put into a saucepan all the 



CoOKliRY. MKS. CLARKE's COOKKRY BOOK 335 



ingredients excepting the arrowroot ; boil up once, then mix 
in by degrees the arrowroot ; then return the whole int» the 
saucepan ; stir and l>oil it three minutes. 

)237. TAFZOOA JELLY* — Ingredients— Some of largest kind of 
tapioca, sonio lemon juice, wine, and sugar. 
Pour cold water on to wash it two or three times, then soak 
it in fresh water five or six hours, and simmer it in the same 
until quite clear ; then add the lemon-juice, wine, and sugar. 
The peel should have been boiled in it. It thickens very much. 

1238. MEAT JELLT. — f Hgredieuta -Beef, isinglass, 1 tcacup- 
ful of water, salt to taste. 

Cut some beef into very sm:ill pieces and carefully remove 
all the fat. Put it in an earthen jar with alternate layers of 
the best isinglass (it is more digestible then gelatine) until 
the jar is full. Then add a teacupful of water with a little salt, 
cover it down closely, and cook it all day in a very slow oven. 
In the morning scald a jelly mould and strain the liquid into it. 
It will be quite clear, except at the bottom, where will be the 
brown sediment such as is in all beef tea, and it will turn out 
in a shape. It is, of course, intended to be eaten cold, and is 
very useful in cases where hot food is forbidden, or as a variety 
from the usual diet. 

1239. GLOUCESTER JELLY.— Ingredients— l 07,. each of rice, 
sago, peaul btirluy, hartshorn shavings, and eringo root, 3 pts. 
of water. 

Simmer until reduced to a pint, and strain it. When cold it 
will be a jelly, of which give, dissolved in wine, milk, or broth, 
in change with other nourishment. 

1210. OHIOEEIT PAITADA— Ingredients— a chicken, quart of 

water, a littlo salt, a grate of nutmeg, and the least piece of 

lemon peel. 

Boil the chicken about three parts done in the water, take off 

the skin, cut the white meat off when cold, and pound in a 

mortar ; pound it to a paste with a little of the water it was 

boiled in ; season with salt, nutmeg, and lemon peel. Boil gently 

for a few minutes to the consistency you desire. 

1241. GRAVY SIPPETS.— Ingredients- 2 or 3 sippets of bread, 
gravy from mutton, beef or veal, salt to taste. 

On an extremely hot plate put the sippets and pour over them 
the gravy. Sprinkle a little salt over. 

1242. A GOOD RESTORATIVE (1).— Ingredients— two calves' 
feet, 2 pt«. of water, 2 pts. of new milk. 

JBake all together in a closely-covered jar for three hours and 



33^ MRS, clarkk's cooKF.RY nonK. SickR.om 

a half. When cold, remove the f;it. Give a large teaciipful 
the last and first tliinj,'. Whatever tlavor is approved, give it 
b> baking in it lemon peel, cinnamon, or mace. Add sugar 
after. 

l'2-\3. Another (2). — In^Todlpnta-O sheep's trotters, 2 blades of 
mace, a little citmainoii, loinoii pool, a few hartshorn shav- 
ings, a little isinglass, and '2(|ts. of water. 

Simmer to one quart, when cold take off the fat, and uive 
nearly half a pint twice a day, warming with it a little ncvv milk. 

1244. Another (3). — Ingredients— l oz. of isinglass shavings, 40 
Jamaica peppers, a piece of brown crust of bread, 1 qt. of 
water. 
Boil to a pint and strain. This makes a pleasant jelly to keep 

in the house, of which a large spoonful may be taken in wine 

and water, milk, tea, soup, or any way. 

1245. Another (a most pleasant Draught) (4). —ingredients— 

i oz. of isinglass-shavings, 1 pt. of new milk, a little sugar. 
Boil to half-pint ; add for change, a bitter almond. Give this 
at bed-time, not too warm. 

1246. SAQ-O ORBAliI-— Ingredients— 1 pt. of l)oiling cream, 1 qt. 

of beef tea, 1 oz. of sago, i pt. water, of and the yolks of 4 
fresh eggs. 

Boil the sago in the water till quite tender, when add the 
other ingredients. 

1247. OnOCOLATS- — Ingredients— A cake of chocolate, 1 pint of 

water, niilU, sugar. 
Cut the chocolate into small pieces ; put the water into a 
saucepan and add the chocolate ; mill it off the fire until quite 
melted, then on a gentle fire until it boils ; pour into a basin 
and it will keep in a cool place eight or ten days. When 
wanted put a spoonful or two into milk, boil it with sugar and 
mix well. 

1248. MILS PORRIDGE. — Some half grits long boiled, milk, 

toast. 
Make a gruel of the half grits ; strain, and add either cold 
milk or warm milk as you desire. Serve with toast. 

1249. PREITOH PORRIDGE.— Ingredients- Some oatmeal, wa- 
ter, milk, toast. 

Stir the oatmeal and water together, let it stand to be clear, 
and pour off the latter ; pour fresh upon it, stir it well, 
let it stand till next day ; strain through a fine sieve, and boil 
the water, adding the milk whilj doing. The proportion of 



COOKFRY. MRS. CLATJKF.'S COOKERY BOOK. 337 



water must be small. This is much ordered, with toast, for 
the breakfast of weak persons, abroad. 

1250. GP.0U1TD mOE MILZ.— In'^redicnts— One spoonful of 
grouiui lieu rubbed suiouth in 1^ piata of milk, a piece of 
cinnamon , loinon peel and nutmeg. 

Boil the ground rice and milk, adding the spices and flavor- 
ing. Sweeten to taste when nearly done. 

1251. SA90 ZiCZLZ-— Ingredients— Sago, new milk. 

Cleanse the sago from the earthy taste by soaking it in cold 
water for an hour, pour that off and wash well, then add more, 
and simmer gently with the milk. It swells so much that a 
small quantity will be sufficient for a quart, when done re- 
duced to about a pint. It requires no sugar or flavoring. 

12.72. BOGS AND TOAST. -Ingredients— 2 eggs, thinly-cut slices 
of bread, 1 teaspoonful of vinegar, littic salt, a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut, a few sprigs of fresh, greeu 
parsley, or some sweet geranium lea\ e t. 

Take the thinly-cut slices of bread,and toast them quickly to a 
light brown, without burningthem. Drop an egg or two into boil- 
ing water in which the vinejrar has been poured, and a little 
salt added to it. Pour one tablespoonful of boiling water over a 
piece of butter, turn it over the toast, and if it is very dry dip 
the whole of it into the melted butter and water, soaking the 
crusts completely. Skim out the eggs as soon as the whites 
are firmly set, and put them upon the toast. Edge the plate 
with a few sprigs of fresh, green parsley, or some sweet geranium 
leaves, and serve upon a salver covered with a white napkin, 
and an invalid will usually eat of it with great relish. 

1253. BASED HOMINT.— Ingredients — To a cupful of cold 
boiled hominy (small kind) allow 2 cups of milk, a heaping 
teaspoonful of white sugar, a little salt, and 3 eggs. 
Beat the eggs very light, yolks and whites separately. Work 
the yolks into the hominy, alternately with the butter. When 
thoroughly mixed, put in the sugar and salt, and go on beating 
while you soften the batter gradually with milk. Be careful to 
leave no lumps in the batter. Lastly, stir in the whites and 
bake in a buttered pudding dish until light, firm, and del- 
icately browned. It may be eaten as a dessert, but it is a de- 
lightful article, and the best substitute that can be devised for 
green-corn pudding. 

1254 STEiAWB3illllIKS—Ing'*Pdients— Fruit, white sugar, juice 
of 2 or 3 lemons in proportion to the fruit. 
The way to make strawberries digestible to those who are 
V 



338 MRS. clarkk's cookery isooK. Sick Room 



unable to eat them on account of dyspepsia or any other cause is 
vcrysimple. Cover them with a very lar^eaHowancc of powder- 
ed sugar and then squeeze over them the lemon juice, which 
brings out the strawberry flavor more than anything else, and 
itB acidity is counteracted by the lar^c quantity of sugar. 
The lemon juice should be injhe same piopoilion ab the cream 
would be in place of which it is used, 

1255. STRBITGTHENIITO ELANC-MAITOE ~ Ingredicnts- 
Onupint of milk, ^ o/. of iniiij^laas, liiid ot i a uniall lemon, 
2 oz. of sugar, yollcB of .*? frcah eggs. 

Dissolve the isinj^dass in the water, strain through muslin, 
put it again on the fire with the rind of the half-lemon cut very 
thin, and the sugar ; let it simmer gently until well flavored, 
then take out the lemon peel, and stir the milk to the beaten 
yolks of the eggs ; pour the mixture back into the saucepan, 
and hold it over the (ire, keeping it stirred until it begins to 
thicken ; put it into a deep basin and keep it moved with a 
spoon until it is nearly cold, then pour it into the moulds which 
have been laid in water, and set it in a cool place till firm. This 
we can recommeud for invalids, as well as for the table gener- 
ally. 

1250. VATER CmnBL- -Tni^redients— A large spoonful of oat- 
meal, water, salt, aud u little pieos of butter. 

Rub smooth the oatmeal with two spoonfuls of water and 
pour it in a pint of water boiling on the fire ; stir well and boil 
quickly. In a quarter of an hour strain it off and add the salt 
and butter when eaten ; stir uutil the butter is thoroughly in- 
corporated. 

1257. BFFBRVESOIlTG'aRTTEL— Ingredients— Half a break- 
fast eup of thiu water gruel, 1 tablespoonful of sifted white 
sugar, a saltspooutul of carbonate of soda, juiee of a lemon. 

Mix the soda and sugar well together and then put into the 
gruel, stirring thoroughly; have ready the lemon juice strained, 
throw it in and drink immediately while it is effervescing and 
as hot as possible. 

1258 BARLEY GRnEL— Ingredients— Four ot. of pearl barley, 
'2qt8. of water, a stiek of eiunjeniou, ^ pt. of port wine, 6ug?r 
to taste. 

Wash the barley, boil it in the water with the cinnamon, till 
reduced to a quart ; strain and return to the saucepan with re- 
maining ingredients, keep on the fire about five minutes, stirr- 
ing all the while. Pour into a jug and when wanted warm up 
again. 



Cookery. mrs. Clarke's cookery book. 339 



1'25D. ZQQ Q'217ZL> — In^'redienta —Yolk of one egg. 1 tableiipoon- 
tul of iiugar, two-thirdtt of a cup of boiling water, white of 
the egg. 
Beat the yolk of the c^'{; with the sugar till very light ; on 

this pour the boiling water ; on the top put the white of the 

egg beaten to a stiff froth with a iittlc sugar. 

1-00. OUSTAUDS- — Ingredients— One qt. of milk, I stick of cin- 
uutnon, the rind of a lonior, a few laurel IcavuH, or bitter 
almonds, sugar to taste, tli*-. yolks of S eggs, the whites of 4. 

Boil the milk with cinnamon, lemon rind, laurel leaves, and 
sugar ; well whisk the yolks with the whites of four eggs, adding 
a little milk, then strain into a dish. When the milk boils, take 
it off the fire and strain it ; then stir the egg into it; return the 
whole to the saucepan and set it on the fire again, stirring con- 
stantly; let it come to the boiling point, then take it off the fire 
pour it into a large jug, and continue stirring it till it is nearly 
cold. It should now have the consistency of thick cream, and 
is ready for being poured into custard glasses ; when the 
glasses are filled, grate a little nutmeg over them. 

1261. 0A7SLSS- -Ingrctlients -One pt. of fine gruel, yolk of an 
egg liiialuu with sugar, a large spoonful of cold water, a glass 
of wine and a little nutmeg. 

Put the egg beaten with sugar into the boiling gruel, and add 
the cold water, wine, and nutmeg. Mix by degrees. This is 
very nourishing. 

126'2. A mOB DRIITZ rOR A OOTJGH. - Ingredients - A 

fresh laid egg, ^ pint of now milk warn»ed, a large spoonful 
of capillaire, the same of rose-water, a litth; grated nutmeg. 

Beat the egg and mix with remaining ingredients. Do nut 
warm it after the egg has been put in. 

1263. TOAST AlTD T^ATSZl- — Ingredients — A slice of bread, 
jug of cold water. 

Toast slowly the bread till exfremely brown and hard, but 
not in the least black. Put into the water and cover closely 
for an hour before used. It should be a fine brown color be- 
fore using. 

1264. A ITIOE SZIIITZ. — Ingrodients — A glass of clear cold 

water, a tabluspoonful of capillaiio, a tablespoonful of some 

good vinegar. 

Put the capillaire and vinegar into the water and it is ready. 

Tamarinds, currants, fresh or in jelly, or scalded currants, 

or cranberries, make excellent drink ; with sugar or not, ac- 

cording to taste. 



34© MRS. CLA'iKE'S COOKERY BOOK. SiCK RoOM 

1265. A PEVEH DRllTS (l).— Ingredients— A little tea sage, 2 
eprigs of biilin, a very small (juantity of wood sorrel, a small 
lemon, 3 pints of boiling water. 

Put the sage, balm and wood sorrel into a stone jug, having 
previously washed and dried them, peel thin the lemon, and 
clear from the white ; slice and put a piece of the peel in ; 
then pour on the water, sweeten and cover. 

1266. A TEVER SUZITE (2).— Ingredients—One oz. of pearl 
barley, 3 pints of water, 1 oz. of sweet almonds, a piece of 
lemon peel, a little syrup of lemons and capillaire. 

Wash well the barley ; sift it twice, then add the water, 
sweet almonds benten fint, and the lemon peel; boil till you 
have a smooth liquor, then add the syrup. 

1267. APPLE T37ATE11. — Ingredients — Some well flavored 
apples, 3 or 4 cloves, a strip of lemon peel, boiling water. 

Slice the apples into a large jug, they need be neither peeled 
nor cored. Add the cloves and lemon peel, and pour boiling 
water over. Let it stand a day. It will be drinkalile in twelve 
hours or less. 

1268. CTJURAITT 'W'ATBR.— Ingredients— One quart of red cur- 
rants, i pint of raspberries, 2 quarts of water, syrup — 1 
quart of water, about ^ lb. of sugar. 

Put the fruit with the water over a very slow fire to draw the 
juice, for half an hour. They must not boil. Strain through a 
hair sieve, add the syrup. Other fruit may be used in the same 
way. 

1269. BARLBT "WATBIl- —Ingredients— Two oz. of barley, 2 
quarts of water, flavor with lemon, currant, or any juice pre- 
ferred. 

Wash the barley and boil in the water till it looks white and 
the barley grows soft ; then strain and flavor. 

1270. PEPPERMINT WATER.— Ingredients— Three quarts of 
w.iter (boiling), 8 cts. worth of oil of peppermint, sugar to 
taste. 

Boil the water and pour into a jug and let it remain till luke- 
warm ; add the oil of peppermint ; sweeten and stir till cold, 
then bottle. 

1271. VlNEaAB "WHET (used in fevers).— ingredients— Half 

a jjill of vinegar. 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar, 2 teacups of milk 
(boiling). 

^ix the vinegar with the sugar, stir in the boiling milk ; let 



Cookery. mrs. Clarke's cookery book. 341 



it boil one or two minutes, cool it, and strain off the whey. 
Lemon juice may be used instead of vinegar, if preferred; it is 
then called lemon whey. 

1272. T?7I1TB WHET.— Ingredients— One pint of milk, 2 glasses 

of white wine, 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar. 

Boil the milk ; the moment it boils stir in the wine with the 
sugar ; let it boil once again, stand it to cool, strain off the 
whey through a fine sieve or piece of muslin. The curd is in- 
digestible. 

1273. MTJLLBD WIITB.— Ingredients— A pint of wine, 1 pint of 
water, 1 egg, nutmeg and sugar. 

Mix the wine with the water ; boil them ; beat the egg in a 
small pan, put it into the wine, then quickly pour the whole 
from one vessel to the other five or six times. Season with the 
nutmeg and sugar. 

1274. RICE MILS-— Ingredients— Two tablespoonfuls of rice, 1 
pint of milk, 1 tablespoonf ul of ground rice (if wanted thick, 
2 will be required), a little cold milk. 

Put the rice into the pint of milk ; boil it until done, stirring 
to prevent it burning. Put the ground rice with little cold 
milk, mix smooth and stir it in ; boil for about a quarter of an 
hour. Thick milk may be made in the same way .is " rice 
milk," only substituting flonr for rice, thickening and sweeten- 
ing to taste. Five minutes boiling will do. 

1276. OBAMOMILE TEA.— Ingredients — One oz. of dried cham- 
omile flowers, i oz. of dried orange peel, 1 quart of boiling 
water. 

Put the chamomile mto a jug with the orange peel. Pour 
over it the boiling water, and stand on the back of the stove 
just close enough to the fire to keep it simmering till the 
•trength of the peel and fioV/er is drawn out, then strain off for 
use and drink a wineglass at a time. 

1276. DANDELION TEA.— Ingredients -Six or 8 dandelion 
roots, according to size, 1 pint of boiling water. 

Pull up the dandelion roots and cut off the leaves ; well wash 
the roots and scrape off a little of the skin. Cut them ip into 
small pieces and pour the boiling water on them. Let them 
stand all night, then strain through muslin, and the tea is ready 
for use. It should be quite clear, and the color of brown 
sherry. One wineglassful should be taken at a time. The 
decoction will not last good for more than two or three days, 
and therefore it must only be made in small quantities. 



THE DOCTOR. 



The following reripes are selected from eminent author- 
ities and can be relied upon, but while in all ca? es it is pru- 
dent to consult a medical man as soon as possible, the in- 
formation under this heading will be found invaluable where 
the doctor is not readily available. 



1277. Fractures. 

Fracture is said to be simple when there is no external wound; 
compound, when complicated with lesion of the surrounding 
soft parts ; and comminuted when the bone is broken into 
many fragments. The symptons of fracture are pain and ina- 
bility to move the limb. When there is great swelling, it is 
often difficult to ascertain the nature or even the existence of 
a fracture. The course of a simple fracture is a painful and 
inflamed swelling a few days after the accident, with more or 
less febrile reaction ; these gradually subside, and with proper 
treatment the bone unites in from one to two months, with or 
without deformity according to circumstances not always under 
the control of the surgeon. Complicated fractures often termin- 
ate in the death of portions of bone and of the soft parts, in 
unhealthy abscesses and tetanus, leading perhaps to fatal re- 
sults unless the limb be removed. The indications of treat- 
ment are to reduce or set the fragments and keep them at rest 
and in close contact so as to prevent deformity; all disturbing 
muscles must be relaxed, the ends of the bones extended and 
the parts properly supported and kept in place, the limb band- 
aged, and some kind of splint is applied to keep it immovable 
of its natural length. The variety of bandage, splints, and 
apparatus for the different kinds of fracture is very great, and 
in nothing does American surgery stand more pre-eminent 
than in its ingenious and effectual instruments for the treat- 
ment of broken bones. When a su. geon cannot be procured 
immediately the broken limb should be kept as nearly as pos- 
sible in its natural position. The two portions of the bone must 
be pulled in opposite directions, until the limb is the same 
length as its fellow, then apply a splint and bind it to the part 

342 



The Doctor, mrs. clakke's cookery book. 343 



with a bandage. Of course when there is no deformity the 
pulling of the bones is unnecessary. Should there be much 
swelling a cold lotion should be used. If the patient is faint, 
give brandy and water, or sal-volatile and water. 

1278. Eov to Beitora a Person apparently Drownod- 

Loosen everything around the neck. Turn the patient's face 
downward, and raise the body several inches higher than the 
head, and keep it in this position long enough to count five 
slowly. This will enable the water to escape from the mouth 
and nose. Place the patient on his back with the chest slightly 
raised (bv some convenient article of clothing such as a folded 
coat or shawl) and the head in a straight line with the body. 
Then practice artificial breathing in this way : — Stand astride 
the patient's hips, grasp the arms, and raise them above the 
head until they nearly meet, which expands the chest ; then pull 
them down and press firmly in the sides of the chest ; this con- 
tracts the chest and thus forces the breath first in and then 
out. While this is going on let another person catch hold of 
the tongue with a piece of cloth and pull it out, it may be se- 
cured by fastening an elastic band over the tongue and under 
the chin ; this opens the little air-valve covering the air-tube. 
While this is going on remove all wet clothing, cover the body 
with warm blankets, etc., and rub the body vigorously. If 
signs of life appear, place the patient in a warm bed in a well- 
ventilated room, and give hot drinks, such as milk, tea, or 
coffee. 

1279. Scalds and Eurns. 

The first object is to cover the injured part with some suit- 
able material, and this should be kept on until the cure is com- 
plete. Apply to the burn or scald a mixture ot lime water and 
linseed oil by saturating the lint with the mixture. Do not re- 
move when dry, but saturate by the application of fresh outer 
layers from time to time. If nothing better is at hand apply 
grated potato, flour, starch. Sec. 

1280. Bruises. 

Excite as quickly as possible tht absorption of bruised blood 
and apply butter, fresh raw beef, or even bathing with cold water 
is a very good though simple remedy. 

1281. Bemorrliagre 

may be checked by giving strong salt and water ; or by giving 
lemon-juice. 



344 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. Tiik Docior* 

If an artery be cut, tie a strong string above the cut to pre- 
vent the escape of blood. Tighten the string if necessary by 
placing a ruler or stick in the string, twist this round, so as to 
make a knot pressing tightly on the artery. The blood from 
an artery is always of a very bright red and comes out in jerks 
or spurts. 

1282. To Hemove a Bee-Stlner. 

Remove the sting at once with a needle or the fingers; press 
a key tightly over the stung part, the pressure will force the 
poison out. Wipe the place with clean linen, suck it and then 
dab with the blue-bag. 

12S3. Sites Of Snakes. 

These are dangerous and require powerful remedies. The 
bites of the various kinds of snakes do not have the same ef- 
fects, but people suffer from them in different ways. It is of the 
greatest importance to prevent the poison mixing with the 
blood and to remove the whole of it instantly from the body. 
Take a piece of tape or anything that is near and tie tightly 
around the part bitten ; it it be the leg or arm, immediately 
above the bite and between it and the heart, the wound should 
be sucked several times by any person near. There is no dan- 
ger to the person performing this kindness, providing his ton.;ue 
or any part of the mouth has no broken skin. Having sucked 
the poison, immediately spit it out. A better plan is to cut out 
the central part bitten with a sharp instrument. This may not 
be a very pleasant operation for an amateur, but, as we have 
to act promptly in such an emergency, courage will come. After 
the operation bathe the wound for some time to make it bleed 
freely. Having done this rub the wound with a stick of lunar- 
caustic or, still better, a solution composed of sixty grains of 
lunar caustic dissolved in an ounce of water. This solution 
should be dropped into the wound. Of course the band tied 
round the wound in the first place must be kept on during the 
time these means are being adopted. The wound afterwards 
must be covered with lint dipped in cold water. There is gener- 
ally great depression of strength in these cases, it is necessary 
therefore to give some stimulant, a glass of hot brandy and 
water, or tv enty drops of sal-volatile. When the patient has 
somewhat recovered give him a little mustard in hot water to 
make him vomit, if on the other hand the vomiting is continu- 
ous, a large mustard poultice should be applied to the stomach 
and one pill given composed of a grain of solid opium. Note. — 
Only one oi these pills must be given without medical advice. 

All these remedies can be acted upon until a surgeon arrives. 



The Doctor, mrs. ct.arke's cookery book. .■^45 



1284. Bites of Dogs. 

The manner of treatment is the same as for snake-bites. 
Many writers on the subject are in favor of the wound being 
kept open as long as possible. Many persons do this by placing 
a few beans on the wound ari then putting a linseed meal 
poultice over the wound. 

1285. Treatment of SssAins. 

Immediately after the accident the part should be immersed 
in a bath at the heat of 100 deg., after which leeches should 
be applied, and then a poultice of vinegar and bran, lukewarm, 
or bread crumbs and camphorated spirits of wine ; the follow- 
ing lotion, when applied in the early stage, after blood has 
been freely drawn by leeches, rarely fails in affording great 
relief: — Gourlard's extract, half an ounce ; tincture of opium, 
two drachms ; vinegar, half a pint; camphor mixture, one pint 
and a half. Mix for a lotion, to be applied tepid by means 
of folded rags. After the inflammatory action has subsided, 

one of the toUowing Liniments Should bo used : 

1286. (i) Soap liniment, one ounce ; tincture of opium, two 
drachms ; camphorated spirits, two drachms. Mix for a lini- 
ment, and rub in night and morning. 

1287. (2) Camphorated spirit^ of wine, half an ounce ; cajaput 
oil and laudanum, of each, two drachms; olive oil, half an 
ounce. Mix for a liniment, and apply night and morning. 

1288. (3) Olive oil and spirits of turpentine, of each half an 
oz. Mix for a liniment, and use as above. 

1289. (4) When weakness remains after a sprain, pumping 
cold water on the part every morning, aided by a bandage or 
laced stocking to support the part, will be the most effectual 
means of remedying it. 

1290. For Sprained Aakla.— Bathe the ankle frequently with 
strong cold salt and water; sit with the foot elevated, keeping it 
cool. Diet, and take daily cooling drinks or medicine. Or 
bind on loosely, and as often as dry, first twenty-four hours, 
cotton batting, spread with beaten egg-whites ; after that, 
morning and night. 

1 291. To Bind a Sprained Antle.— Put the end of the 

bandage upon the instep ; then take it round and bring it over 
the same part agaiu, and then round the foot two or three times ; 
finish off with a turn or two round the leg above the ankle. 

1292. Sprained Wrist.— Begin by passing the bandage 
round the hand, across and across, like the figure 8 ; leave out 



346 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. The Doctor. 



the thumb, and finish with a turn or two round the wrist. Apply 
arnica tincture. 

129.3. Treatment of a Frozen Person. 

Chelius, a German authority, gives the followinj,^ advice for 
restoring a frozen person. He should be brought into a cold 
room, and after having been undressed, covered up with snow 
or with cloth in ice-cold water, or he may be laid in cold water 
so deeply, that his mouth and nose are only free. When the 
body is somewhat thawed, there is commonly a sort of icy 
crust formed around it ; the patient must then be removed, 
and the body washed with cold water mixed with a little wine 
or brandy ; when the limbs lose their stiffness, and the frozen 
person shows signs of life. 'ie should be carefully dried, and 
put into a cold bed in a c »^om ; scents and remedies which 
excite sneezing, are to be put to his nose ; air to be carefully 
blown into *hc lungs, if natural breathing do' not come on ; 
clysters of warm water with camphorated vinegar thrown up ; 
the throat tickled with a feather, and cold water dashed upon 
the pit of the stomach. He must be brought by degrees into 
rather warmer air, and mild perspirants, as elder and balm-tea 
(or weak common tea) with Minderin"s spirit, warm wine and 
the like, may be given to promote gentle perspiration. 

1294. Eruises. 

In slight bruises, and those that are not likely to be 
followed by inflammation, nothing more is usually required 
than to bathe the part with spirit, as Eau-de-Cologne, brandy, 
&c., mixed with an equal proportion of vinegar and water. 

1295. In more severe cases, and where the nccident is near 
an important part, as the eye, or any of the joints, it becomes a 
desirable object to prevent the approach of inflammation. For 
this purpose leeches must be employed, repeating them accord- 
ing to circumstances. If considerable fever be present, bleed- 
ing from the arm, purgatives, and low diet, may become neces- 
sary. 

1296. In the last stage of a bruise, where there is merely a 
want of tone in the parts, and swelling from the effused blood, 
&c., friction should be employed, either simply, or with any 
common liniment. Wearing a bandage, — pumping cold water 
on the part, succeeded by warm friction, — a saturated solution 
of common salt in water, have each been found successful. 
The roots of briony and Solomon's seal, bruised and applied 
as a poultice, are highly useful in hastening the disappearance 
of the discoloration caused by bruises. 



The Doctor. Mrs. clarke's cookery booic. 347 



1297. Accidents from Edge Tools, Hard Bodies, &o- 

In all recent wdiinds, the first consideration is to remove for- 
eign bodies, such as pieces of glass, splinters of wood, pieces 
of stone, earth, or any other substance that may have been in- 
troduced by the violence of the act which caused the wound. 

Where there is much loss of blood, an attempt should be 
made to stop it with dry lint, and compression above the part 
wounded, if the blood be of a florid color ; and below, if of a 
dark color. In proportion to the importance of the part wound- 
ed, will be the degree of the discharge of blood, and the sub- 
sequent tendency to inflammation and its consequences. 

129S. Substances in the Eye. 

A substance getting in the eye may either lie disengaged 
on its surface, or, having penetrated the external coat, may 
there remain fixed. In the former case, it is easily removed 
by a camel-hair pencil, or a piece of paper rolled into the size 
of a crow-quill with the end softened in the mouth. 

1299. Sometimes the substance sticks in the corner, when, if 
it cannot be removed with a probe or fine forceps, the point 
of a lancet should be carefully passed under it so as to lift it 
out. 

1300. If the removal cannot be effected without considerable 
difficulty, it is better to leave it to be detached by ulceration, 
taking every precaution to keep off undue inflammation, by 
avoiding a strong light, fomenting with warm water, etc. 

1301. To remove fine particles of gravel, lime, etc., the eye 
shonld be syringed with luke-warm water till free from them. 
Be particular not to worry the eye under the impression that 
the substance is still there, which the enlargement of some of 
the minute vessels make, the patient believe to be actually the 
case. 

1302. Substances in the Ear. 

Hard substances, such as peas, bits of slate-pencil, beads, 
etc., occasionally get lodged in the passage of the external ear. 
If the sub-stance be within sight, and can be grasped readily 
with a small pair of forceps, that will be the best way to extract 
it ; but force must not, on any account, be used. 

1303. But the best and safest plan is to inject luke-warm wa- 
ter rather forcibly into the ear by means of a syringe, one that 
will hold at least two ounces. This will be found rarely to fail, 
the water passing beyond the substance, and being there con- 



348 MRS. Clarke's COOKERY BOOK. The Doctor. 

fined by the membrane, called the tympanum^ forces the former 
outwards. 

1304. Should the sub.stancehave swelled, or the ear become 
swollen, a little sweet oil must be poured into the ear, and left 
there till the next day, when syringing may be used. 

1305. Glass beads and similar substances, may be extracted 
by means of a probe, dipped into some appropriate cement, in- 
troduced into the ear, and kept in contact with the body to be 
removed, for a few moments till it has become set. 

1306. Sulsstances in the Throat. 

A fish-bone, or pin, being lodged in the throat, may some- 
times be readily got rid of by exciting vomiting by tickling the 
backpart of the throat. 

1307. Another mode is to make the patient swallow a good 
mouthful of bread-crumb. 

1308. Another expedient is to introduce a large goose-quill 
down the throat, and then twirl it round, by this means the sub- 
stance may be disengaged, and so pass down into the stomach. 

1309. A plentiful draught of water will sometimes be suffici- 
ent, when the substance is merely engaged in the folds of the 
gullet. We would, however, particularly recommend in this 
case the white of an egg, and, if necessary, a second. 

1310. Diseue of Infant!- 

The most frequent of these are — i, disorders of the stomach ; 
2, disorders of the bowels ; 3, exhaustion ; 4, febrile affections ; 
5, exanthematous diseases, or those which are attended with 
eruptions of the skin ; 6, affections of the head ; 7, diseases of 
the thorax, or chest ; 8, affections of the abdomen, or belly. 

Disorders of the stomach generally depend on improper 
diet; or they may be secondary, and the effects of a disordered 
or confined state of the bowels. They are often detected by 
acid or foetid eructations and breath, or by the unusually 
frequent regurgitation or vomiting of food. 

Disorders of the bowels can never be mistaken or overlooked 
by an attentive nurse, the evacuations in their number and 
appearance, being the perfect index to these disorders. 

It must never be forgotten, that whenever the system has 
been exposed to sources of exhaustion, this condition may be- 
come, in its turn, the source of various morbid affections which 
are apt to be ascribed to other causes, and treated by impraper, 
and therefore dangerous, measures. If the infant h s had 



The Doctor, mrs. Clarke's cookery book. 349 

diarrhoea, or if it has been bled by ieci:hes ; or if, witho.it these, 
its cheeks are pale and cool ; and if, under these circumstances, 
it be taken with symptoms of affection of the head, do not fail 
to remember that this affection may be the result of exiiaustion. 
This important subject seems to have been generally 
misunderstood. 

Fever is sooner detected. In every such case it is ad- 
visable not to tamper nor delay, but to send for the medical 
man, and watch the little patient with redoubled care and 
attention. 

Especially examine the skin, hour after hour, for eruptions. 
It may be measles or scarlatina, &c. It will be especially de- 
sirable to detect these eruptions early, and to point them out 
to the physician. Above all things, let not a contracted brow, 
an unusual state of the temper or manner, unusual drowsiness 
or wakefulness, orstarling, and especially unusual vomiting, es- 
cape you. 

Be alive to any acceleration, or labor, or shortness of the 
breathing, or cough, or sneezing, or appearance of inflamma- 
tion about the eyes or nostrils. These symptons may portend 
inflammation within the chest, hooping cough, measles. Pain 
of the body, with or without vomiting; or diarrhoea, with or 
without a morbid state of the bowels, <> of the discharges, 
ought also to excite immediate attention. One caution should 
be given on this subject : some of the most alarming and f»tal 
affections of the bowels, like some affections of the head, are 
unattended by acu^e pain or tenderness; their accession, on the 
contrary, is insidious, and it will require great attention to de- 
tect them early 

Another view, and another mode of the classification of the 
diseases of infants, full of interest, full of admonition is — i, as 
they are sudden; or 2, as they are insidious; or 3, as they are, 
in the modes of accession, intermediate between these two ex- 
tremes. 

Of the sudden affections, are fits of every kind, croup, and 
some kinds of pain, as that of colic ; of the second class are 
hydrocephalus, or water on the brain, and tubercles in the 
lungs or abdomen, constituting the two kinds of consumption. 
Fits, again, are cerebral, and arise from diseases within the 
head, or from irritation in the stomach and bowels, or Irom ex- 
haustion ; or they are evidence of, and depend on, some mal- 
lormation or disease of the heart. 

Domestic treatment should never be trusted in such terrific 
affections as these ; not a moment should be lost in sending 
for the medical man. 



350 MRS. CLARKK'S COOKIiRY BOOK. ThE DocTOR. 



If anything may be done in the meantime, it is — i, in either 
of the two former cases to lance the gums ; 2, to evacuate the 
bowels by the warm water injection, made more active by the 
addition of Brown Suf;ar ; 3, and then to administer the warm 
bath. An important point, never to be forgotten in the hurry 
of these cases, is to reserve the evacuations for inspection 
otherwise the physicians will he deprived of a very important 
source of judgment. 

In cases of fits arising plainly from exhaustion, there need 
be no hesitation in giving five diops of sal volatile in water, 
light nourishment may be added; the feet must be fomented 
and the recumbent posture preserved. 

In fits arising from an affection of the heart the symptom is 
urgent difficulty of breathing ; the child seems as if it would 
lose its breath and expire. In such a case, /o do nothin^'\% the 
best course ; all self-possession must be summoned, and the 
infant kept perfectly quiet. Every change of posture, every 
effort, is attended with danger. 

Sometimes the attaci^s assume the character of croup ; there 
is a crowing cough, and breathing ; or there is a difficulty of 
breathing, and then a crowing inspiration. The former case is 
generally croup ; the latter is, in reality, a fit dependent on the 
morbid condition of the brain or spinal marrow, although it 
takes the appearance of an affection of the organs of respira- 
tion. 

In either case it is well to clear the bowels by means of the 
slow injection of from a quarter to half a pint of warm water, 
with or without brown sugar ; indeed this is the most generally 
and promptly useful of all our remedies in infantile diseases. 
To this the warm bath may always be added, if administered 
with due caution. For instance, it should not be continued so 
as to induce much flushing or paleness of the countenance. 

1311. Measles. 

Measles commences with the ordinary symptoms of fever. 
The attack is almost invariably attended with inflammation of 
the mucous membrane lining the air passages ; the eyes are red 
and watery ; there is dcfluxion from the nostrils, hoarseness, 
and cough. The eruption commonly appears on the fourth 
day, at first about the head and neck, then the trunk and arms, 
and finally reaching the lower extremities ; it takes two or 
three days to complete its course and when it reaches the feet 
and legs has often begun to disappear from the face. All ages 
are liable to it. When the eruption is fully out, the cough, at 
first dry and troublesome, generally becomes softer and less 



TheDoCIuR. MRS. CLAKKJi's COOKKRY book. 35 I 



frequent, and at the end of six or seven frum the coming 
out of the first papules they have disappeared. When danj^er 
occurs, it is from inflammation of the air passages. In ail 
ordinary cases simple diet, the maintenance of an equable 
temperature, plenty of diluent drinks, attention should be paid 
to the bowels as they should be kept gently open, if a roasted 
apple or a liltle manna in the drink will not do this, give a 
mild saline aperient such as ipecacuanha wine and sweet spirits 
of nitre, i drachm; of tartrate of potash, 4 diai.lin.s; 
solution of acetate of ammonia i ounce ; syrup of poppies, 
2 drachms ; cinnamon or dill waltr sufficient to make 
4 ounces ; dose, a table or dessert spoonful three or lour 
times a day. Where there is much heat of the skin, "ponginf; 
with tepid vinegar and water will commonly relieve it, and also 
the itching. On the third or fourth day after the subsidence 
of the eruption a little opening medicine should be given and 
care must be taken to protect the patient against change 
of weather, and to restore the strength by a nourishing diet. 
Attention should be paid to the cough, and the proper le- 
medies given if required. Should the eruption suddenly dis- 
appear, then there is cause for alarm ; the patient should be 
directly put into a warm bath, and have warn diluent drinks ; 
if the pulse sinks rapidly, adminster wine whey or weak brandy 
and water. 

1312. Scarlet Fever. 

This fever is distinguished from other eruptive fevers by the 
fact of the eruption being an exanthema, an efflorescence, or a 
rash, these terms not being strictly applicable to vesicles and 
pustules. The disease sometimes commences with a chill, 
and in most cases vomiting is a primary symptom especially 
in children. The fever which at once occurs is usually intense, 
the axiliary temperature often rising to 105*, or even higher. 
The surface of the body often gives to the touch a burning sen- 
sation. The rash appears in about twenty-four hours after 
the date of the invasion, and with few exceptions breaks out 
first on the face and neck. The color ot the rash is scarlet, 
whence the name. The skin is somewhat swollen and the rash 
occasions a burning sensation with in some cases intense itch- 
ing. Generally the eruption takes place in the throat, and the 
tonsils are more or less swollen. The cutaneous eruption is 
prolonged from four to six days. Then follows the stage of 
scaling, and in some instances the cuticle of the hands may be 
stripped off like a glove. In favorable cases the duration of 
this stage may be reckoned to be five or six days, when con* 



35 » MRS. CLARKE'S COOKRRY BOOK. ThE DoCTOR. 



valescence is established. In other cases it is eTtrcmely severe 
and may prove fatal within a few days or even hours. Scarlet 
fever is highly contagious and the infectious material remains 
for a long time in garments, etc. Children are more suscep- 
tible than adults. The treatment in mild cases is very simple. 
Active medication is not indicated. It suffit:es to diminish the 
animal heat by sponging the body and giving cooling drinks 
observing proper hygienic precautions. Smearing the surface 
of the limbs with fat bacon allays the itching which is often 
very distressing. Should the symptoms show failure of the 
vital powers, supporting measures of treatment (alcoholic stim- 
ulauts and alimenation) are indicated, (ireat care must be 
taken to keep the patient warm right through the disease as 
aflfections of the kidneys often follow cases of scarlet fever. 
It is important to isolate the patient and attendant from the 
healthy. Remove all curtains and carpets, and clothing not 
actually in use from the sick chamber. On removing the 
patient's linen or bed clothes, throw them into water and so 
convey to the wash. Chloride of lime should be set about the 
room in plates. When the patient can be removed from the 
room, .scrub the room with chloride of lime in the water. It 
is wise to keep the patient in bed for three weeks. Should the 
eruption be slowin appearingjSponge the body withcold vinegar 
and water, wrap in a blanket and keep the patient warm. 
Should the throat be sore, keep hot bran poultice constantly 
applied. If the fever runs high in the first stage, and there is 
great inclination to vomit (before sponging), it is a good plan 
to give an emetic of equal proportions of antimonial and 
ipecacuanha wine; dose, a teaspoonful to a tablespoonful, ac- 
cording to age. 

131.S. Hooping Cough. 

This well-known disease is chiefly, but not wholly, confined 
to the stages of infancy, and it occurs but once in a life-time. 
It may be described as a spasmodic catarrh, and its severity 
varies greatly ; iJometimes being so mild as to be scarcely 
known from a cf5mmon cough, at others, exhibiting the most 
distressing symptoms, and frequently causing death by its 
violent and exhausting paroxysms. 

The first symptoms of this cough are those of an ordinary 
cold ; there is probably restlessness and slight fever, with irri- 
tation in the bronchial passages ; this goes on gradually in- 
creasing in intensity for a week or ten days, and then begins 
to assume the spasmodic character ; at first the paroxysms are 
plight, and of short duration with a scarcely perceptible "hoop," 



The Doctor. Mrs. clarke's cookf.ry book. 353 

but soon they become more frequent and severe ; a succession 
uf violent expulsive coughs is followed ijy a ion^ -drawn inspir- 
ation, in the course of which the peculiar sound which gives 
a name to the disease is emitted; again come the coughs, and 
again the ins|)iration, following each other in quick succession, 
until the sufferer, whose starting eyes, livid face, swollen veins, 
and clutching hands, attest the violence of the strug^de for 
breath, is relieved by an expectoration of phlegm resembling 
the white of an egg, or by vomiting. When the paroxysm is 
over, the child generally resumes its play, or other occupation, 
and frequently complains of being iiungry. As the disease 
proceeds, the matter expectorated becomes thicker, and is more 
easily got rid of, and this is a sign of favorable progress : the 
spasmodic paroxysms become less frequent and violent, and 
gradually cease altogether ; but the changes here indicated 
may extend over a inonih or six months, according to circum- 
stances, the season of the year having much influence in has- 
tening or retarding them ; summer being, of course, the most 
favorable time. It is a common impressicn that, at whatever 
time of year an attack of Hooping Cough commences, it will 
not end until May ; this is simply because of the change in the 
weather which generally takes place in or about the course of 
that month. With a strong, healthy child (when pioper care 
is taken), there is little to apprehend from this disease, pro- 
vided it be not complicated with others, such as inflammation 
of the lungs, or any head aff'.ction producing convulsions ; it 
then proves a most dangerous malady, and is fatal to many. 
With children of a full habit, the fits of coughing often cause 
bleeding at the nose, but this should not be viewed with alarm, 
as it relieves the vessels of the brain, and is likely to prevent 
worse consequences. 

To weakly children Hooping Cough is a very serious malady 
— to all it ig frequently a very sore trial, but to them it is es- 
pecially so : therefore great care should be taken not to expose 
them to the danger of catching it ; that it is contagious there 
can be no doubt, and although some parents think lightly of it, 
and imagining their children must have it, at one time or 
another, deem that it matters little when, and therefore take 
no pains to protect them against it ; yet we would impress up on 
all our readers, who may have the care of infants, that a heavy 
responsibility lies at their door. It is by no means certain that 
a child will have this disease ; we have known many persons 
who have reached a good old age and never contracted it ; and 
it is folly and wickedness needlessly to expose those placed 
under our care to a certain danger. 
W 



354 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. The Doctor. 

Like fever, Hooping Cough has a course to run, which no 
remedies, with which we are at present acquainted, will short- 
en ; the severity of the sympioms may be somewhat mitigated, 
and we may, by watching the course of the disease, and by 
use of the proper means, often prevent those complications 
which render it dangerous, and this brings us to the consider- 
ation of the proper mode of 

Treatment. — The first effort should be directed to check any 
tendency te inflammation which may show itself ; to palliate 
urgent symptoms, and stop the spasm which is so distress- 
ing a feature of the case. To this end, the diet must be of 
the simplest kind, consisting for the most part of milk and 
farinaceous puddings ; if animal food, it must not be solid, but in 
the form of Broth, or Beef-tea ; roasted Apples are fi[ood ; and, 
for drinks. Milk and Water, Barley-water, Weak Tea, or Whey. 

Care must be taken to keep the bowels open with some 
gentle aperient, such as Rhubarb and Magnesia, with 
now and then a grain of Calomel or Compound Julep 
Powder if something stronger is required. An emetic should 
be given about twice a week, to get rid of the phlegm — it may 
be Ipecacuanha Wine or the Powder. To relieve the cough, 
the following mixture will be found effective : — Ipecacuanha 
Powder, lo grains ; Bicarbonate of Potash, i drachm r Liquor 
of Acetate of Ammonia, 2 oun-es ; Essence of Cinnanio:i, 8 
drops ; Water, 6;^ ounces : Dose, a tablespoonful about every 
four hours. 20 drops of Laudanum, or i drachm of Tincture 
of Henbane may be added if the cough is very troublesome, 
but the former is objectionable if the brain is at all affected. 

For night restlessness, 2 or 3 grains of Dover's Powders, 
taken at bed-time, is good ; this is the dose for a child of three 
years old. Mustard poultices to the throat, the chest, and be- 
tween the shoulders, are often found beneficial ; so is an opiate 
liniment composed of Compound Camphor and Soap Liniment, 
of each 6 drachms, and 4 drachms ol Laudanum. Roache's 
Embrocation is a favourite application, and a very good one ; it 
is composed as follows : — Oil of Amber and of Cloves, of each 
^^ an ounce ; Oil of Olives, i ounce ; a little Laudanumis, 
perhaps, an improvement. This may be rubbed on the belly 
when it is sore from coughing. Difficulty of breathing may be 
sometimes relieved by the vapour of Ether or Turpentine 
diffused through the apartment. In the latter stages of the 
disease, tonics are generally advisable. Steel Wine, about 20 
drops, with 2 grains of Scsquicarbonate of Ammonia, and 5 
drops of Tincture of Conium, in a tablespoorful of Cinnamon 
Water, sweetened with Syrup, is a good form ; but a chansfc of 



The iDocTOR. Mrs. Clarke's cookery book. 355 

air, with a return to a generous diet, are the most effectual 
means of restoration to health and strength. 

Squinting, stupor, and convulsions are symptomatic of 
mischief in the brain ; in this case leeches to the temples, and 
small and frequently repeated doses of Calomel and James's 
Powder should bu resorted to. Fever, and j,'rcat difficulty of 
breathing, not only during the fits of coughing, but between 
them, indicate inflammation in the chest, on which a blister 
should be put, after the application of two or three leeches. In 
this case, the rule must be low diet, with febrifuge medicines, 
such as Acetate of Ammonia, Tartarized Antimony in Camphor 
Mixture, and Calomel and James's Powders. Some medical 
practitioners have recommended the application of Lunar 
Caustic to the glottis in this disease, but no unprofessional 
person should attempt this. Others have found the Tincture 
o. artifical Musit serviceable, beginning with 3 or 4 minim 
doses at the outset, and going up to to or 12 minims, in Barley 
Water, two or three times a day. Diluted Nitric Acid we have 
frequently administered both to children and adults, with 
decidedly beneficial results ; from 5 to to drops in plain or 
Cinnamon Water, sweetened ; it may be given very frequently ; 
a little Ipecacuanha Wine, and Tincture of Henbane or Hem- 
lock, about 5 drops, may be added to each dose. Cochineal 
and Salts of Tarta'- i-^ tlie old ])opular remedy, and it is, no 
doubt, sometime.1 usliuI, but \\c would rather not depend on 
it. 

Dr. Golding Bird recommends the following mixture: — Alum, 
25 grains ; Extract ot Henbane, 12 i^rains, Syrup of Poppies, 
2 drachms ; Dill Water, sufficient to make 3 ounces: give a 
■ desseribpouiiful every six hours. — 2Vu' Fdinily Doctor. 

1314. Diarrhoea (Grook re.o, to flow). 

Looseness of the bowels, sometimes called Fltix. This 
is a very commom disorder, arising from a variety of 
causes, foremost among which may be mentioned suppressed 
perspiration, a sudden chill or cold applied to the body, acid 
fruits, or any indiLicstible food, oih or putrid substances, 
deficiency of bile, increased si'cretion of mucus, worms, strong 
purgative medicines, ;:;out or rheumatism turned inwards, &c. 
Hence diarrhcea mav be distinguished as bilious, fiiucous, 
licnttery \yi\\^xii the food passes unchanged!, tW/'/. ''wiiere it 
passes oft in a while liquid stale, like chyicj, and vcnninose^ 
produced by worms. 

The symptoms are frequent and copious discharges of 
feculent matter, accompanied usually with griping and 



356 Mks. Clarke's cookery book. The Doctor. 

flatulency , there is weight and uneasiness in the lower belly 
which is relieve d for a time on the discharge taking place ; 
there is nausea, often vomiting ; a pale countenance, some- 
times sallow; a bitter taste in the mouth, with thirst and dry- 
ness of the throat ; the tongue is furred and yellow, indicating 
bile in the alimentary canal ; the skin is dry and harsh, and 
if the diseaee is r.ot checked great emaciation ensues. 

The treatment must depend in some degree on the cause ; 
the removal of the exciting matter, by means of an emetic, or 
aperient medicines, will, however, be a safe proceeding at first ; 
if the Diarrhoea be caused by obstructed perspiration or expo- 
sure to cold, nauseating doses of Antimonial, or Ipecacuanha 
Wine, may be given every three or four hours, the feet put into 
a warm bath, and the patient be well covered up in bed. When 
the case is obstinate, resort may be had to the vapour bath, 
making a free use of diluents and demulcents. Where there 
is acidity of the stomach, denoted by griping pains and 
flatulency, take Chalk Mixture, with Aromatic Confection, and 
other anti-acid absorbents or alkalies, such as Carbonate of 
Potash, with .Spirits of Ammonia, and Tincture of Opium, or 
some other anodyne ; if from putrid or otherwise unwholesome 
food, the proper course, after the removal of the offending 
matter, is to give absorbents, in combination with Opium, or 
if these fail, acid and an anodyne ; the following is an 
efficacious formula : Diluted Sulphuric Acid, 2 drachms ; 
Tincture of Opium, yi a drachm; Water, 6 ounces; take a 
tablespoonful every two hours. When the looseness proceeds 
from acrid or poisonous substances, warm diluent drinks should 
be freely administered, to keep up vomiting, previously excited 
by an emetic ; for this purpose thin fat broth answers well ; a 
purge of Castor Oil should also be given, and after its operation, 
small doses of Morphine, or some other preparation of Opium. 
When repelled gout or rhumatism is the cause, warm 
fomentations, cataplasms, blisters to the extremities, and 
stimulant purges such as Tincture of Rhubarb, to be followed 
by absorbents with anodynes ; if worms are the exciting cause, 
their removal must be first attempted, but drastic purgatives, 
often given for the purpose, are dangerous ; in this case. 
Turpentine and Castor Oil, i drachm of the first and 6 of the 
last, may be recommended. The Diarrhoea which often 
occurs in childhood during the teething, should not be sudden- 
ly checked, nor at all, unless it prevails to a hurtful extent ; if 
necessary to stop it, give first a dose of Mercury and Chalk, 
from 2 to 4 or 6 grain?-, according to age, and then powder of 
Prepared Chalk, Cinnamon, and Rhubarb, about 2 grains of 



The Doctor, mrs. clarke's cookery book. 357 



each every four hours. DiarrhcEa sometimes attacks pregnant 
women, and, in this case, its progress ought to be arrested as 
quickly as possible. In all cases of looseness of the bowels it is 
best to avoid hot thin drinks, unless given for a specific purpose ; 
the food, too, should be simple and easy of digestion ; Milk 
with Cinnamon boiled in it, thickened with Rice or Arrowroot, 
is good ; vegetables, salt meat, suet puddings and pies are not ; 
if there is much exhaustion, a little cool Brandy and Water 
may be now and then taken. When Dirrhoea is stopped, 
astringent tonics, with aromatics, should be given to restore 
the tone of the stomach. 

This disease may be distinguished from Dy'^enicry^ by 
being unattended by either inflammation, fever, contagion, 
or that constant inclination to go to stool without a discharge, 
which is common in the latter disease, in which the matter 
voided is sanguineous and putrid, while that in Diarrhoea is 
simply feculent and alimentary. — The Family Doctor, 

1315. Diplitliona. 

in diphtheria the false membrane accompanying inflamma- 
tion appears almost invariably in the fauces or throat, and in 
many cases it is limit -i to this situation. It may extend more 
or less over the mucus surface within the mouth and nostrils. 
It is not infrequently produced within the windpipe, giving 
rise to all the symptoms of true crfltup, and generally proving 
fatal. The disease rarely occurs except as an epidemic. Per- 
sons between three and twelve years of age are most apt to 
be affected with it, but no period of life is exempt from a lia- 
bility to it. Frequent vomiting, diarrhoea, hemorrhage from 
the nostrils or elsewhere, convulsions, delirium, and coma are 
symptoms which denote great danger. The chief objects in 
the treatment are to palliate symptoms and support the powers 
of life by the judicious employment of tonic remedies conjoined 
with alimentation and alcoholic stimulants. The latter are 
in some cases given in large quantity without inducing their 
excitant effects, and there is reason to believe that they are 
sometimes the means of saving life. The following treatment 
has been tried in our own family, and has been most success- 
ful : 

1316. The Sulphur Treatment of Diphtheria. — An eminent 
physician is said to have worked great wonders in treating 
diphtheria with sulphur during the recent prevalence of an 
epidemic. A person who accompanied him says : " He put a 
teaspoonful of flour of brimstone into a wine-glass of water, 
and stirred it with his finger instead of a spoon, as sulphur 



35^ MRS. Clarke's cookery book. The Doctor. 



does not readily amalgamate with water. When the sulphur 
was well mixed he gave it as a gargle, and in ten minutes the 
patient was out of danger. Instead of spitting out the gargle, 
he recommended the swallowing of it. In extreme cases in 
which he had been called just in the nick of time, when the 
fungus was too nearly closing to allow the gargle, he blew the 
sulphur through a quill into the throat, and, if the fungus had 
shrunk to allow of it, then the gargling. He never lost a pa- 
tient from diphtheria. If a patient cannot gargle, take a live 
coal, put it on a shovel, and sprinkle a spoonful or two of flour 
of brimstone at a time upon it : let the sufferer inhale it, hold- 
ing the head over it, and the fungus will die. If plentifully 
used, the whole room may be filled almost to sufTocation, and 
the patient can walk about in it, inhaling the fumes, with doors 
and windows closed." 

1317. Typhoid Tever. 

This fever is called by German abdominal typhus, and by Eng- 
lish and American writers, for the same reason, enteric fever. 
This characteristic, intestinal affection, is one of the essential 
points of distinction between typhoid and typhus fever. Typhoid 
fever is undoubtedly communicable, yet it is rarely com- 
municated to those who are brought into contact with cases of 
it, namely, physicians, nurses, and fellow patients in hospital 
wardj ; and it occurs when it is quite impossible to attribute 
it to a contagion. It is more apt to prevail in the autumnal 
months than at other seasons. The early symptoms are chilly 
sensations, pain in the head, loins, and limbs, lassitude, and 
looseness of the bowels. During the course of the fever stupor. 
as in cases of typhus, is more or less marked. In the majority 
of cases there is a characteristic eruption, usually confined 
to the trunk, but sometimes extending to the limbs. The 
duration of the fever is longer than that of typhus, the average, 
dating from the time of taking to the bed, being about sixteen 
days in the cases which end in lecovery ; it is somewhat less 
in the fatal cases. Milk is pre-eminently the appropriate 
article of diet, and alcoholic stimulants are sometimes tolerated 
in very large quantities without any of the excitant or in- 
toxicating effects which they would produce in health. Favour- 
able hygienic conditions are important, such as free ventilation, 
a proper temperature, and cleanliness. 

1318. Tits. 

Fainting fits are sometimes dangerous, at other times harm- 
less ; should heart disease be the cause, the danger is great. 



The Doctor, mrs. clarkk's cookery book. 359 

If from some slight cause, such as sight of blood, fright, ex- 
cessive heat, Sec, there is no cause for alarm. It would be 
superfluous to enumerate the symptoms. The treatment: First, 
lay the patient upon his back with his head level with the feet, 
loosen all garments, dash cold water over the face ; sprinkle 
vinegar and water over the hands and about the mouth, apply 
smelling salts to the nose, and when the patient has recovered 
a little, give 20 drops of sal-volatile in water. 

1319. Apoplexy. 

These fits generally occur in stout, short-necked people, 
symptoms, sparks before the eyes, giddiness, confusion of ideas, 
when the patient falls down insensible; the body is paralyzed, 
the face and head is flushed and hot, the eyes fixed, the breath- 
ing loud. Put the patient to bed, immediately raise the head, 
remove everything from the neck, bleed freely from the arm, 
if there is no lancet at hand use a penknife, put warm mustard 
poultices to the soles of the feet and the insides of the thighs, 
the bowels should be freely opened, take two drops of castor 
oil and mix with eight grains of calomel, put this as far back 
on the tongue as possible, the warmth of the throat will cause 
the oil to melt quickly, and so be absorbed into the stomach. 
If the blood vessels about the head are much swollen put eight 
leeches on the temple opposite the paralyzed side. Send for 
surgeon at once. 

1320. Epilepsy. 

These fits generally attack young persons. Symptoms : 
Palpitations, pain in the head, but as a rule, the patient falls 
dewn suddenly without warning. The eyes are distorted, foam- 
ing at the mouth, the fingers tightly clenched and the body 
much agitated ; when the fit is over, the patient feels drowsy 
and faint. Keep the patient flat on his back, slightly raise the 
head, loosen all garments round the neck, dash cold water 
upon the face, place a piece of wood between the teeth to 
prevent the patient hurting his tongue. After the fit give the 
following pills. 

1321. Dr. Oallen's Treatment of Epilepsy, or Falling Fits. 

Take of ammoniate of copper, twenty grains ; bread crumb 
and mucilage of gum arable, a pufficient quantity to form it 
into a mass, which is to be divided into forty pills. In the 
beginning one of these is to be taken three times a day, and 
gradually increased to two, or even three pills, thrice a day. 



36o MRS. Clarke's cookery book. The Doctor. 



1322. Hysteria. 

A nervous aflfection chiefly seen in females, and generally 
connected with uterine irrej-ularities ; it is sometimes called 
Clavus or Globus Histericus, and is commonly known as Hys- 
terics. As this is a very common affection, amenable to do- 
mestic treatment, it is desirable that we should devote some 
little space to a consideration of it. First let us observe, that 
the age at which there is the greatest proneness to Hysteria, 
IS from that of puberty to the fiftieth year, that is 
from the accession to the cessation of menstrual 
life ; at the beginning and end of which it is more 
frequent and marked than at any other period. Single 
women, and the married who do not bear children are most 
subject to it, although it sometimes occurs at the early period 
of pregnancy and immediately after child-birth. Persons of 
studious and sedentary habits, and of scrofulous and weakly 
constitutions, are especially likely to be the subjects of Hys- 
teria ; as are indolent and plethoric persons, and those debili- 
tated by disease, or excesses of any kind : it may be excited by 
excessive evacuations, suppression of the natural secretions, 
strong mental emotions, or sympathy wfth others so affected. 
Jt is a curious circumstance connected with this affection that 
it simulates almost every disease to which humanity is liable. 
A patient suffering under Hysteria may have a rougli, hoarse, 
croupy cough, loss of voice, hiccup, pain in the left side, flut- 
tering of the heart, running at the eyes and nose, spasmodic 
contractions and convulsive movements of various kinds, 
vomiting, copious evacuations, delirium, and all kinds of violent 
and unmanageable symptoms, which subside as soon as the 
hysterical paroxysm does. All this shows that the whole nerv- 
ous system is peculiarly influenced by the affection. An attack 
generally comes on with a sensation of choking ; it seems as if 
a ball were rising in the throat and threatening to stop the 
passage of the air ; then the trunk and limbs become strongly 
convulsed, so much so that an apparently feeble woman will 
require three or four strong persons to restrain her from injur- 
ing herself ; then follows the hysterical sobbing and crying, 
with alternate fits of laughter ; generally the head is thrown 
back, the face flushed, the eyelids closed and tremulous ; the 
nostrils distended, and the mouth firmly shut ; there is a strong 
movement in the throat, which is projected forward, and a 
wild throwing about of the arms and hands, with sometimes a 
tearing of the hair, rending of the clothes, catching at the 
throat, and attempts to bite those who impose the necessary 
restraint. After awhile, the deep and irregular breathing, the 



The Doctor, mrs. Clarke's cookkry book. 361 



obvious palpitation of the heart, with the symptoms above 
enumerated will cease ; there will be an expulsion of wind up- 
wards, and the patient will sink down, sobbing and sighing, to 
remain tranquil for a shorter or longer period, at the end of 
which she may again start up, and be as violent as ever; or 
she may go off into a calm sleep, from which she will probably 
awake quite recovered. A fit of Hysteria may last for a few 
minutes only, or for several hours, or even days ; persons have 
died under such an infliction : it may generally be distinguished 
from epilepsy by the absence of foaming at the mouth, which 
is nearly always present in that disease, and also by the pecu- 
liar twinkling of the eyelids, which is a distinguishing symptom 
of great value, and a sign of safety. In epilepsy, too, there is 
complete insensibility, not so in Hysteria ; the patient retains 
a partial consciousness ; hence it behoves those about her to be 
cautious what they say ; if any remedies arc suggested of which 
s-h; is likely to have a dread, her recovery may be greatly re- 
tarded thereby. In epilepsy there is laborious or suspended 
respiration, dark livid complexion, a protruding and bleeding 
tongue ; rolling or staring and projectcl eyeballs, and a fright- 
ful expression of countenance. Not so in Hysteria ; the cheeks 
are usually red, and the eyes, if not hidden by the closed eye- 
lids, are bright and at rest ; the sobbing, sighing, short cries, 
and laughter, too, are characteristic of the latter affection. We 
point out these distinctions that no unnecessary alarm may be 
felt during fit of Hysteria, which is seldom attended with 
ultimate danger either to mind or body, although the symptoms 
are sufficiently distressing to cause anxiety. 

Treatment. — The first efforts must be directed to prevent the 
patient, if violent, from injuring herself ; but this should not be 
done in a rude, rough manner. It is, perhaps, best to confine 
her hands, by wrapping tightly round her a sheet or blanket. 
The dress should be loosened, especially round the throat, and 
the face freely exposed to fresh air, and both that and the 
head well washed with cold water ; if she can and will swallow, 
an ounce of Camphor Mixture, with a teaspoonful of Ether, 
Sal volatile. Tincture of Assafoetida, or Valerian, may be ad- 
ministered ; strong Liquid Ammonia may be applied to the 
nostrils ; and if the fit is of long duration, an Enema injected, 
consisting of Spirits of Turpentine, Castor Oil, and Tincture 
of Assafoetida, of each half an ounce, in half a pint of Gruel. 
What is required is a strong stimulus to the nervous system ; 
therefore, dashing cold water on the face, and hot applications 
to the spine, are likely to be of service. Sir A. Carlisle recom- 
mends that a polished piece of steel, held in boiling water for a 



362 MRS. CLARKE'S COOKRRY BOOK. Tin-: DoC lOR. 

minute or two, be passed down the back over a silk handker- 
chief. This has been found to prevent the recurrence of the 
paroxysm, which has before been periodic ; by which it would 
seem that the patient has some power of controlling the symp- 
toms, when a sufficiently strong stimulus is applied, to enable 
or induce her to exercise it. 

During the intermission • attacks of Hysteria, attention 
should be devoted to any constitutional or organic defects, from 
which they are likely to arise ; the patient's mind should Ijc 
kept as tranquil as possible, and a tendency to all irregular 
habits or excesses held in check ; if plethoric, there should be 
spare diet, and perhaps leeching ; if scrofulous and weakly, 
good nourishing food and tonic medicines, particularly some 
form of Iron, the shower bath, regular exercise, cheerful com- 
pany ; antispasmodics, and remedies which have a gently stim- 
ulating effect, will frequently relieve the sleeplessness com- 
plained of by hysterical pa'ients better than opiates and other 
narcotics. In such cases Dr. Graves recommends pills com- 
posed of a Grain of Musk and two or three Grains of Assafcetida, 
to be taken two or three times a day. When there is headache, 
dry-cupping at the back of the neck, or between the shoulders, 
will probably be of service. A change in the mode of life, in- 
volving entering upon new cares and duties, will frequently 
eff'ect a complete cure of Hysteria, which, it has been observed, 
seldom attacks women of a vigorous mind. It is extremely de- 
sirable that, in the education ot young females, the bodily 
powers should be well exercised and devloped. Too little at- 
tention is paid to this generally, and the consequence is that a 
great many of our young women are weak and nervous, and 
frequently subject to hysterical affections. 

1323. Quinsy. 

Though called tonsillites, the inflammation is rarely confined 
to the tonsils, but involves the pharynx, the soft palate and the 
uvula and sometimes extends to the root of the tongue. It com- 
mences with a feeling of dryness and discomfort about the throat 
and with pain in swallowing. The mucous membrane lining the 
throat is reddened and the tonsils are more or less swollen. As 
the disease advances, the inflamed parts, at first dry, because 
covered with vicid mucous, and the distress of the patient is 
greatly enchanced by the effort which he is tempted to make ^o 
remove this secretion. In many cases suppuration occurs in one 
or both tonsils ; when this takes places those organs are often 
enormously swollen, and, together with the obstruction of the in- 
flamed palate, may render breathing difficult and painful. In such 



The Doctor, mrs. ci.arkk's cookkry nooK. 3^)3 



cases the febrile reaclion is stront^ly marked, the skin being hot 
and thepulse full and frequent, the patient is unable to take 
nourishment and the voice becomes thick and characteristic of 
the disease. The disease thouj^h painful is attended with little 
danger; but the inflammation may by extension involve the 
larynx, and thus prove fatal. The disease requires but little 
treatment. Where the mucous membrane alone is involved, a 
stringent gargle, repeated five or six times ;i day, usually gives 
relief. The food should be liquid — (soups, beef tea, milk, etc.,) 
and should be swallowed in large mouthfuls, which give less 
pain than smaller ones. If an abscess forms in either or both 
tonsils the greatest relief is obtained from frequent inhalations 
of warm steam, which acts as a poultice to the irflamed parts. 
As soon as the location of the abscess can be determined, it 
should be opened, after which there is usually no further 
trouble. 

132 k An Excellent Hemcdy for?. Cold- 
Take a large tea-cupful of linseed, two pennyworth of stick- 
liquorice, and quarter of a pound of sun raisins. Put these into 
two quarts of soft water, and let it simmer over a slow fire till 
it is reduced to one ; then add to it a quarter of a pound of 
brown sugar-candy (pounded), a table spoonful of old rum, and 
a tablespoonful of the best white-wine vinegar, or lemon-juice. 
Drink half a pint at going to bed, and take a little when the 
cough is troublesome. This receipt generally cures the worst 
of colds in two or three days, and if taken in time, may be 
said to be almost an infallible remedy. It is a most balsamic 
cordial for the lungs, without the openinq; qualities which en- 
danger fresh colds on going out. It has been known to cure 
colds that have been almost settled into consumption, in less 
than three weeks. The rum and vinegar are best to be added 
only to the quantity you are going immediately to take ; for, 
if it is put into the whole it is apt to grow flat. 

1325. Cold. 

The svinptotns of a cold are familiar to most persons, for there 
are few who have not experienced them ; as a general rule the 
treatment should be av'oidance of exposure to out-of-door at- 
mospheric influences, unless the weather be very fine and mild; 
warm diluent drinks and diaphoretics at night to promote per- 
spnation, with the use of the foot bath. The saying runs, 
*' feed a cold and starve a fever," but this is not always the safe 
course ; if there is an absence of febrile symptons, which is 
rarely the case, a warm nourishing diet may be the rule, and 



364 MRS. CI-ARKE'S cookery BOOR.. ThE DoCTOR. 



medicines may be pretty nearly dispensed with, but if these 
symptons are present, the system must be reduced by low diet 
and aperient medicines ; two grains of Calomel, with ten grains 
of Dover's Powder should be given at bed-time, and a Senna 
draught in the morning, taking, during the day, a mixture like 
this : Sulphate of Magnesia, two drachms ; Sweet Spirits of 
Nitre, two drachms; Wine of Tartarized Antimony, one 
drachm ; Liquor of Acetate of Ammonia, six ounces ; take a 
tablespoonfnl every four hours. A high medical authority has 
recently recommended a total abstinence from liquids, he says : — 
"To those who have the resolution to bear the feelings of thirst 
for thirty-six or forty-eight hours, we can promise a pretty cer- 
tain and complete riddance of their colds ; and, what is per- 
haps more important, a prevention of those coughs which com- 
monly succeed them. Nor is the suffering from thirst nearly 
so great as might be expected." It is Dr. C. J. Williams who 
writes thus : — " We have never witnessed any evil from this 
abstinence from liquors for the time prescribed ; but it is not 
unlikely that it may do harm in persons with irritable stomachs; 
or in those liable to urinary disorders. Moderation in liquid 
food is one of the best preventives against the bad effects of 
exposure to cold. Wiien there is a large quantity of liquid in 
the system there must be increased perspiration, and, there- 
lore, greater risk from the effect of cold." We mention this 
new light thrown on the subject of treatment for cold, without 
fully recommending its adoption, having tested the opposite 
method and found it cfficacions ; it might do in some cases, 
but not, we apprehend, in the great majority. For directions 
for the treatment of cough and other concomitants of cold, see 
cough. 

1.32G. Colds (Ho'^ to provont). 

The Popular Scicinc Monthly gives good advice in regard to 
the prevention of colds. The mistake is often made of not 
taking great care to put on extra wraps and coats when pre- 
paring for outdoor exercise. This is not at all nece.ssary in 
robust persons. Sufficient heat to prevent all risk of chill is 
generated in the body by exercise. The care should be taken 
to retain sufificient clothing after exercise, and when at rest, to 
prevent the heat passing out of the body. Indeed, persons 
very often catch chills from throwing off extra clothing after 
exercise, or from sitting about in garments the material of 
which is not adapted to prevent the radiation of heat from the 
body. 



TheDoctou. MRS. claujce's cookkry nooic. 365 

1327. Oouffh. 

A convulsive effort of the lungs to get relief of phlegm 01 
other mattef ; it may bo a sympton of Uronchitis^ or Caiatr/i, 
or Croup, ur Intluenza, or Larym^itiSy or P/it/tisis, or Pleurisy, 
or Pneumonia, or Relaxed Uvula, also Hooping Cou^h. 

We can here lay down but a few general principles with re- 
gard to the treatment of simple cough without reference to the 
peculiar disease of which it may be symptomatic ; and first let 
us observe, that it may be either what is properly, as well as 
medically, termed dry or moist. In the former case, Opium 
and its preparations, are advisable, in the latter they should 
not be used ; the irritation will be best allayed by Henbane or 
Hemlock, either the Tincture or Extract, with demulcents, as 
Barley Water, Linseed tea, etc., and I^iquorice, cither the Root 
boiled, or Extract ; it is well also to add from five to ten drops 
of Ipecacuanha Wine to each dose ; inhalation also of the 
steam from boiling water will generally be found beneficial — 
and especially if some medicinal herb, such as Horehound or 
Coltsfoot, be infused in it. In moist coughs there should not 
be so much fluid taken, and the use of demulcents must be 
somewhat restricted. Opiates may be administered, but not 
too freely, either separately, or in cough mixtures ; Paregoric 
Elixir, in which the Opium is combined with Benzoic Acid and 
Oil of Aniseed (expectorants), and Camphor (antispasmodic), 
is perhaps the best form of administration ; a teaspoonful in a 
glass of water, generally allays the irritation, and frequent desire 
to cough which arises from it. In cases where there is difficulty 
of expectoration, some such mixture as this should be taken:— 
Compound Tincture of Camphor, four drachms ; Ipecacuanha 
Wine, and Oxymel of Squills, of each two drachms; Mucilage 
of Acacia, one ounce ; Water, four ounces, mix and take a 
tablespoonful when the cough is troublesome ; for old people, 
two drachms of Tincture of Benzoin, commonly called Friar's 
Balsam, may be added to the above; and if there should be 
much fever, two drachms of Sweet Spirits of Nitre. For all 
kinds of cough counter initanta should be applied, such as 
blisters and warm plasters, rubbing in of stimulant ointments 
on the chest aiul between the shoulders : those parts also 
should be well protected by flannels next the skin, dressed 
hare skin and other contrivances of the kind. For coughs 
which are mora particularly troublesome by night, it is best to 
give the Opium, Hebane, or Hemlock, as the case may be, 
at bedtime, in the shape of a pill; of the Extracts of cither of 
the latter, five grains may be given ; of the first, one or two 



366 MRS. CLARKE'S COOKERY HOOK. THE DocTOR. 

grains of the Gum, or a (|uarter of a grain of Morphine. A 
long experience of their efficacy among a large number of dis- 
pensary patients enables the author to recommend with con- 
fidence the following pills ; take of Compound Squill Pill, one 
drachm ; Ipecacuanha Powder and Extract of Hyoscyamus, of 
each, half a drachm ; mix and make into twenty-four pills, 
take one or two on going to rest. 

Very frequently fcbrde symptoms accompany coughs, and 
then a full diet is not advisable, and stimulants must be avoided. 
Great relief is oittn afforded by the use of the warm foot bath, 
and warm gruel, with a ten grain Dover's I'owdcr after the 
patient is in bed ; then plenty of covering to encourage pers- 
piration. Coughs should never be neglected, they are so fre- 
q^uently symptomatic of organic disease; if they do not yield to 
smiple remedies, let medical advice be sought, whether the 
patient be old or young. See Colds. 

1328. Hoadaohe. 

Headache may arise from a variety of causes ; consequently 
the preventive measures vary according to the nature of the 
attack. When it is of that kind which is dependent on rheum- 
atism, and which affects the muscles, extending often from the 
forehead to the back, and sometimes involving the temples, 
the patient should be as much as possible in the open air, and 
should use the shower-bath every morning. When the form 
of headache is accompanied with tenderness of the scalp, and 
acute pain on pressure, indicating an affection of the immedi- 
ate covering of the bones, — besides exercise in the open air, 
the head should be shaved, and washed twice a day, namely, 
morning and evening, with cold water, and afterwards gently 
rubbed with a towel for ten or fifteen minutes. The residence 
should be in a dry, somewhat elevated situation ; and quietude 
of mind should be maintained. When the pain in the forehead 
and the back of the head is obtuse, and accompanied with a 
sensation of torpor and oppression ; and when this occurs in 
weak and irritable persons, besides the necessary medical 
treatment, which ought not to be neglected, all mental appli- 
cations should be suspended, and cheerful society culti- 
vated ; the diet should be moderate, and the utmost attention 
paid to the state of the bowels. Exercise and shower-baths 
are as essential in this as in the other varieties of the head- 
ache. Lastly, in what is usually termed sick headache, den- 
oted by either acute or dull pain over the left temple, with some 
tenderness of the part, throbbing, and an incapacity at the 
time for any mental e.xertion, the whole arising generally from 



The Doctor, mrs. ci.arkf.'s cookery hook. .•^67 



indigestion, or some error in diet previous to the occurrence 
of the he.'id.'iche, it is scarcely necessary to say that prudent c 
in diet, both with respect to quantity and c|uality, should be 
observed. Long fasting, excess of wine or any stimulant, pro- 
tracted sedentary occupations, hurry of business and anxiety, 
should be known to be exciting causes, and, consequently, as 
far as possible, avoided by thuse predisposed to sick headaches; 
in a few words, the duty of the head and the feet should be 
equally balanced. I'ropcr diet and exercise, cheerfulness of 
mind, and agreeable sociable intercourse, will do more to reg- 
ulate the stomach and bowels, in those predisposed to this 
form of headache, than any plan of medical treatment which 
can be suggested. 

132!). Oepliallc Snuff. 

Lundyfoot Bnuff and as-abaracca leaves, of each two ounces; 
lavender flowers, two drachms ; essence of bergamot and oil of 
cloves, of each four drops. Grind the lavender with the snuff 
and leaves to a fine powder ; then add the perfume. Much 
recommended in headaches, dinmess of sight, &c. 

1330. Silious or Sick Headache- 
Headache is, in general, a symptom of indigestion, or der- 
anged general health, or in consequence of a confined state of 
the bowels. The following alterative pill will be found a val- 
uable medicine : — Take of calomel, ten grains ; emetic tartar, 
two, three, or four grains ; precipitated sulphuret of antimony, 
one scruple ;guaiacum in powder, one drachm. Rub them 
well together in a mortar for ten minutes, then, with a little 
conserve of hips, make them into a mass, and divide it into 
twenty pills. Dose. — One pill is given every night, or every 
other night, for several weeks in succession. 

1831. Hiccoue:]!- 

This may usually be removed by the exhibition of warm car- 
minatives, cordials, cold water, weak spirits, camphor julep, or 
spirits of sal volatile. A sudden fright or surprise will often 
produce the like effect. An instance is recorded of a delicate 
young lady that was troubled with hiccough for some months, 
and who was reduced to a state of extreme debility from the 
loss of sleep occasioned thereby, who was cured by a fright, 
after medicines and topical applications had failed. A pinch 
ofsnutf, a glass of i,'/rt^ soda-water, or an ice-cream will also 
frequently remove this complaint. 



368 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. The Doctor, 

1332. Cramp. 

When cramp occurs in the limbs, warm friction with the 
naked hand, or with the following stimulating liniment, will 
generally be found to succeed in removing it : 

The Liniment. — Take of water of ammonia, or of spirit of 
hartshorn, one ounce; olive oil, two ounces. Shake them to- 
gether till they unitu. 

When the stomach is affected, brandy, ether, laudanum, or 
tincture of ginger affords the speediest means of cure. The 
following draught may be taken with great advantage : — 
Laudanum, forty or fifty drops ; tincture of ginger, two 
drachms ; syrup of poppies, one drachm ; cinnamon or mint 
water, one ounce. Mix for > draught. To be repeated in an 
hour, if necessary. 

In severe cases, hot flannels, moistened with compound 
camphor liniment and turpentine, or a bladder nearly filled 
with hot water, at loodcg. or 130 deg. Fahr., should be applied 
to the pit of the stomach ; bathing the feet in warm water, or 
applying a mustard poultice to them, is frequently of great 
advantage. 

'■••J'- The best preventives, when th. cause of cramp is con- 
stitutional, are warm tonics, such as the essence of ginger and 
camomile, Jauiaica ginger in powder, &c., avoiding fermented 
liquors and green vegetables, especially for supper, and wear- 
ing flannel next to the skin. 

1333. ITeuralffia (Greols muron, a norve, anrl aiqos, pain). 

A painful affection of the nerves : when it occurs in those 
of the face, it is termed facc-ni^ue, or tic-doloreux ; when it af- 
fects the great nerve of the leu, it is called sciatica ; other parts, 
such as the fingers, the chest, the abdomen, &c., are also lia- 
ble to this agonizing pain, one of the most severe and wearing 
to which the human frame is liable; the exact nature of it is 
not very clear, that is to say, the origin of the disease, for al- 
though its immediate seat i^ a nerve, or set of nerves, yet there 
must be some originating cause. It can frequently be traced 
to some decay, or diseased growth of the bone about those 
parts through which the nerves pass ; and in some severe cases 
i' has been found to depend upon the irritation caused by 
foreign bodies acting upon those highly sensitive organs. The 
only symptom of Neuralgia generally, is a violent plungmg and 
darting pain, which comes on in paroxysms ; except in very 
severe and protracted cases, there is no outward redness nor 
swelling to mark the seat of the pain, nciil.er is there usuiilly 



The Doctor, mrs. clarkk's cookery book. 369 



constitutional derangement, other than that which may be 
caused by want of rest, and the extreme agony of the suffering 
while it lasts, which may be from one to two or three hours, or 
even more, but it is not commonly so long. Tenderness and 
swelling of the part sometimes occurs, where there has been a 
frequent recurrence and long continuance of the pain, which 
leaves the patient, in most cases, as suddenly as it comes on ; 
its periodic returns and remissions, and absence of inflamma- 
tory symptoms, are distinctive marks of the disease. Among 
its exciting causes, we may mention exposure to damp and 
cold, especially If combmed with malaria ; and to these influ- 
ences a person with a debilitated cor.stitution will be more sub- 
ject than another. Anxiety of mind will sometimes bring it on, 
and so will a disordered state of the stomach, more particularly 
a state in which there is too much acid. 

As for treatment, that, of course, must depend upon the cause ; 
if it is a decayed tooth, which, by its exposure of the nerve to 
the action of the atmosphere, sets up this pain, it should be at 
once removed, as there will be little peace for the patient until 
there is ; if co-existent with Neuralgia there is a disordered 
stomach, suspicion should at once point thereto, and efforts 
should be made to correct the disorder there. If the patient is 
living in a moist, low eituation, he should at once be removed 
to a higher level, and a dry, gravelly soil. Tonics, such as 
Quinine and Iron, should be given, and a tolerably generous 
diet, but without excess of any kind. In facial Neuralgia, 
blisters behind the ears, or at the back of the neck, have been 
found serviceable, and, if the course of the nerve which appears 
to be the seat of mischief can be traced, a Belladonna plaster 
or a piece of rag soaked in Laudanum and laid along it, will 
sometimes give relief; so will hot fomentations of poppies and 
camomiles, or bran poultices sprinkled with turpentine. In 
very severe cases ^ of a grain of Morphine may be given to 
deaden the nervous sensibility, and induce sleep, which the 
patient is often deprived of at night, the pain coming on as 
soon as he gets warm in bed. Sir Charles Bell's remedy for 
obstinate cases was i or 2 drops of Croton Oil, mixed with 
one drachm of Colocynth Pill, divided into twelve. Weaklv 
persons, however, must not venture upon taking this powenul 
remedy. 

An application of Chloroform on lint has sometimes proved 
very effectual in relieving severe Neuralgic paina, and so has 
an ointment composed of Lard and Vei dlrine, in the propor- 
tion of six grains to the ounce. 
X 



37° MRS. Clarke's cookery book. The Doctou. 



A mixture of Chloroform and Aconite has been recommended 
for facial Neuralgia, the form of preparation being two parts of 
Spirits of Wine, or Eau de Cologne, one of Chloroform, and 
one of Tincture of Aconite, to be applied to the gums of the 
side affected, by means of a finger covered with a piece of 
lint, or soft linen, and rubbed along them ; the danger of drop- 
ping any into the mouth beinff thus avoided. When the pain 
is connected with some organic disease, as a decayed tooth, 
or chronic inflammation of the gums, or of the sockets or super- 
ficial necrosis of the bone, substitute Tincture of Iodine for 
the Spirit in the above formula. We would caution our readers 
strongly against the careless inhalation of Chloroform as a 
remedy for Neuralgia, which appears to be growing info a 
general practice ; several deaths have resulted from it, the 
practice being to pour a little on a pocket handkerchief, with- 
out much regard to quantity, ana hold it to the mouth until the 
required insensibility is produced. This remedy should never 
be administered, except under the supervision of a medical ad- 
viser. People at all liable to this painful affection should be 
extremely careful not to expose themselves to wet or cold : 
above all to avoid draughts. A very slight cause will often 
bring it on where there is the slightest tendency to it. 

1334. Croup. 

On the first appearance of croup, a teaspoonful of the fol- 
lowing mixture : — Ipecacuanha wine, half an ounce ; tartaric 
emetic, one grain ; distilled water, half an ounce. Mix. 
Should be immediately given, and repeated every ten minutes, 
until it excites vomiting. After its operation the child should 
be put in a warm bath, for ten to fifteen minutes, and a dose 
of calomel and James's powder given. If relief be not ob- 
tained from these measures, the entire throat should be cov- 
ered with leeches, say eight or ten, and the bowels emptied by 
the following injection : — Take of common turpentine two 
drachms, beat it up with the yolk of an egg, and add by de- 
grees half a pint of decoction of chamomile flowers, in which 
an ounce of g'aubar salts has been dissolved ; strain it, and 
divide it into two equal parts, one of which is to be admin- 
istered night and morning. If the alarming symptoms are not 
checked in twelve hours, the warm bath is to be repeated, and 
calomel, in doses of from three to five grains, with three 
grains of James's powder in each, should be given every third 
hour. 

If a child recover from the attack of croup, every affection 



The Doctor, mrs. clarke's cookery book. 371 

of the chest or lungs should be considered as important ; it 
should, therefore, be carefully guarded against cold, especially 
in damp weather, for which purpose the child should wear a 
chamois leather waistcoat next the skin, made to cover the 
neck and great attention be paid to the stomach and bowels. 
A child having been once attacked with croup is very liable to 
its return from any slight exposure to cold. 

1335. Treatment of Bunions. 

This consists in removing all pressure from the part. The 
formation of a bunion may in the beginning be prevented, but 
only in the beginning ; for when actually formed, it is scarcely 
possible ever to get rid of it, and it remains an everlasting 
plague. To prevent the formation of a bunion, it is necessary 
whenever or wherever a boot or shoe pinches, to have it eased 
at once, and so long as that part of the foot pinched remains 
tender, not to put on the offending shoe again. When a bun- 
ion has once completely formed, if the person wish to have 
any peace, and not to have it increase, he must have a last 
made to fit his foot, and have his shoe made upon it. And 
whenever the bunion inflames, and is painful, it must be 
bathed with warm water and poulticed at night 

1S38. Stye- 

The stye is strictly only a little boil which projects from the 
edge o^ the eyelid. It is of a dark red color, much inflamed, 
and occasionally a great deal more painful than might be ex- 
pected, considering its small size. It usually disappears of 
itself, after a little time, especially if some purgative medicine 
be taken. 

If the stye be very painful and inflamed, a small warm poul- 
tice o( linseed meal, or bread and milk, must be laid over it, 
and renewed every five or six hours, and the bowels freely 
acted upon by a purgative draught, such as the following : — 
Take of Epsom salts, half an ouncs ; best manna, two 
drachms ; infusion of senna, six drachms ; tincture of senna, 
two drachma; spearmint water, one ounce; distilled water, 
two ounces. Mix ; and take three, four, or five tablespoonfuls. 

When the stye appears ripe, an opening should be made into 
it with the point of a large needle, and afterwards a little of the 
following ointment may be smeared over it once or twice a 
day. Ointment. — Take of spermaceti, six drachms ; white 
wax, two drachms : olive oil, three ounces. Melt them to- 
gether over a slow fire, and stir them constan tly until they are 
cold. 



372 MRS. CLARKE'S COOKERY BOOK. ThE DoCTOR. 

1337. For Inflamed or Weak Xyes (i)- 

Half fill a bottle with common rock salt; add the best of 
French brandy till all but full. Shake it, let it settle, and bathe 
the outside of the eye with a soft linen cloth on going to bed 
and occasionally through the day. This will be found a good 
application for pains and bruises generally. 

1338. Another way (2). 

Mix a few bread crumbs with the white of an egg, put it in 
a bag of white muslin, and apply it to the eye. It is best ap- 
plied at night or when lying down. After removing the poul- 
tice bathe the eye with warm water, using a piece of soft rag, 
not a sponge. 

1339. Sofloienoy of Wax in the Ear- 
Deafness is sometimes the consequence of a morbidly dry 
state of the inner passages of the ear. In such cases, intro- 
duce a piece of cotton wool, dipped in an equal mixture ofoil of 
turpentine and oil of almonds, or in the liniment of carbonate 
of ammonia. 

1340. Aooumnlatlon of Wax In the Ear- 

To remedy this, which is a very frequent cause of deafness, 
introduce a small piece of cotton wool, upon which a little oil 
of almonds has been dropped, into the ear, and let it remain 
there for a day or two. Then syringe the ear with a little 
warm milk and water, or a solution of soap or with a solution 
of common salt and water, in the proportion of two drachms of 
the former to half an ounce of the latter. The solution of salt 
is the best sf'ivent of accumulated wax in the ear. 

1341. ToremoTe ITervons Anxiety- 
Keep the bowels regular with mild purgatives, take plenty of 
exercise in the open air, adopt a light nutritious diet, and seek 
pleasant society. A teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, or of 
magnesia, or a few drops of laudanum taken the last thing at 
night, will generally have the effect of preventing watchfulness. 

1342. HyBterics. 

Assafcetida, one drachm ; peppermint water, one ounce and 
a half; ammoniated tincture of valerian, two drachms; sul- 
phuric ether, two drachms. Mix. A dose of this mixture is a 
tablespoo'iful every second hour. 



IHEUOCTOR. MRS. CLARKE'S COOKERY nOOK, 373 



1343. To Fro&uco Perspiration- 

Twelve drachms of antimonial wine and two drachms of 
laudanum. Of this mixture eighteen drops may be taken in 
water every five or six hours. 

1344. Lotion to remove Freckles- 
Mix two ounces of rectified spirits of wine, add two teaspoon- 
fuls of muriatic acid, with one pound and a half of distilled 
water. 

1.345. Ointment for Ohilblains- 

Calomel and camphor, of each two drachms ; spermaceti 
ointment, eight drachms ; oil of turpentine, four drachms. Mix 
well together. Apply, by gentle friction, two or thiee times 
daily. 

1346. To raise a Blister Speedil7- 

A piece of lint dropped into vinegar of cantharides, and im- 
mediately after its application to the skin covered over with a 
piece of strapping to prevent evaporation. 

1347. Dyspepsia, Eeartlaum, and Acidity, 

Pure water, five ounces ; carbonate of ammonia, 2 drachms; 
syrup of orange peel, one ounce. Mix. For a six-ounce mix- 
ture. 

1348. 'Warminer Plaster- 
Burgundy pitch, seven parts, melt and add plaster of can- 
tharides, one part. Some add a little camphor. Used in chest 
complaints, local pains, etc. 

1349. Rules for the Preservation of Bealtli. 

Adopt the plan of rising early, and never sit up late at night. 

Wash the whole body every morning with cold water, by 
means of a large sponge, and rub it dry with a rough towel, or 
scrub the whole body for ten or fifteen minutes with flesh- 
brushes. 

Drink waters generally, and avoid excess of spirits, wine, 
and fermented liquors. 

Sleep in a room which has free access to the open air, and is 
well ventilated. 

Keep the head cool by washing it with cold water when nec- 
essary, and abate feverish and inflammatory symptoms when 
they arise, by persevering stillness. 



374 MRS. Clarke's cookery book. The Doctor. 



Symptoms of plethora and indigestion may be corrected by 
eating and drinking less per diem for a short time. 

Never eat a hearty supper, especially of animal food ; and 
drink wine, spirits, and beer only after dinner. 

Exercise regularly adopted conduces to preserve the health, 
and should always be taken by those who value so inestimable 
a blessing. 



WHAT TO NAME THE BABY. 



Our dear Baby, what shall we call it ? Consult the fol- 
lowing list, and select the prettiest name you ctn find. 
This dictionary has been prepared at great expense and 
trouble, and is made as complete as possible ; but no sur- 
names, that are sometimes used rs Christian names, such 
as Sydney, &c., are included. 



Aakon, Hehreio, Inspired (Alfred, 

Abdisl, Hebrew f The servant u¥ 



Old Qer. 



(3 0(1 

Abel, Hebrew^ Vanity 
AjuktiUlR, Hebrew y Fallier of 

plenty 
Abiel, Hebrew, Father of 

strength 
Abik/eb, Hebrew, Fatlicr of help 
Abuah, Hebrew, To whom 

Jeliovah 
is a f ither 



Good 

counselor 



A'LOv.niio^, French, Withwhiskers 

Ai^EN } '^^"'^■ow'"- Harmony 
Almon, Hebrev), Hidden 
Alonzo, Old Oer. Willing 
Ali'HEUS, Hebrew, Exchange 
Alphonso.OW Ger. All ready 



Alvah, 
Alvan, 
Alvin, 



Abner, Hebrew, Father ef light Alwin, 



■Hebrew, Iniquity 

Beloved 
by all 



Old Oer. 



Amasa 

AMBROai, 



Abraham, Hebrew, Father of a 

multitude 
Abrah, Hebrew, Father of 

elevation 
Absalom, 5c^retr, Father of peace' Ammi 
Adam, Bebrevj, Red-earth Amos, 
Adiel, Hebrew, The ornament Andrew, 

of God 
Adik, Uebrew, Delicate 

Adolph, Old Oer. ) Noble ! Anselm, \ qj, ^^ Protection 

Adolphus, Za<m, \ hero Ansel, / ' of God 

ADOiciRAM.^.6r«t/.,Lord of height Anthont. U ^^. praisewo.thy 
Alak, iS^mvonw, Harmony Antony, J ' ' 



Amariaii, Hebrew, Whom Jeho- 
vah promised 
Hebrew, A burden 
Oreek, Divine 
Hebreir, My people 
Hebreic, Courageous 
Greek, Manly 
ANDRaNicus,G'refA, A eonqneror 
of men 



Alaeio, 
Albert, 
Albion, 



Old Ger 
Old Oer. 
Celt, 



Alexander, Oer. 



Noble ruler 
Illustrious 
Moiuitainous 

land 
A defender 

of men 



AroiLos, Greek, Of Apollo 
ARCHELAUS,Gre^A:, Ruler of the 

People 
Archibald, Gwwan,Holy princ* 
Ariel, /feir^w, Valiant for 
God 



37^ 



WHAT TO NAME THE BABY. 



AKiSTAR('ntTS,G'r<?fi*, A fiood prince 
Arnold, OldO'T. Strong as an 

eaylc 
Aktemas, Greek, Gift of 

Artemis 
Arthur, Celt, Noble, 
Asa, Hebrew, I'liysician 

Asahel, Hebrew, Made of (Jod 
Asaph, Hebrew, A collector 
AaAUKLMi, /Jebretv,'Upnght to 

God 
AsHBEL, Hebrew, Fire of Bel 
AsHER, Hebrew, Mappy 
AsHCR, Ilibrcw, IJiacUness 
ATHANASir.s,(//-«'A-, Innnortol 
ATHKLar AH ,Aiig-S(tx. Noble stone 
Aubrey, Old Oer. Ruler of 

Bpirits 



JiuiAN, 

Uhuno, 



Celt, 
Old Ger. 



Strong 
Brown 



Dim-sighted 
A stone 



CADWALLATjKK,fin7M,Battle ar- 
ranger 
Latin, Blue-eyed 
Hebrew, A dog 
Latin, liald 
Latin, 
Aram, 

Manly 

Belonging to 
Christ 

CHRiSTOPiiERiG/rc^-.l bearing 
Clirist 
Clarence, /-«<«>, Illustrious 

Claudius, ) r .. y 
r-r.irr.^ y Latin, Lame 
Ulaude, J ' 



Ca'^sar, 
Calkb, 
Cal*.in, 

Cecil, 
Ckphas, 
Charles, Old Ger. 
CiiRisi'iAS, Latin, 



AUOUSTIN, "I 



Augustine, 
Austin, J 
Augustus, l.ntin, 
Aurelius, Latin, 
Azariah, Hebrew, 



Clement, Latin, Merciful 
La«n,Belonging to'^'^^'^^D, Old Ger.Resolute 

Augustus 



Exalted 
Golden 
Heljied of the 
Lord 



Baldwin, Old Ger. Bold 
Baptist. Greek, I'uritier 
Baraciiias, f{eh.\y\\om .lehovah 

has blessed 
Bardolpii, "I Old Ger, A dis- 
Bardulpii, / tinguiahed helper 
Barnabas, \ French,Son of cor- 
Barn'aby, j ruption 

BAKTiioLOMKW,Zfft6.A Warlike son 
Barzillai, Hebrew, True 
Basil, Greek, Roya' 

Benedict, Latin, Blessed 
Benjamin, ZTcfircttf, Son of the 

right hand 
Benoni, Hebreio, Son of grief or 

trouble 
Beriah, Hebrew, In calamity 
Bernard, ) Old Ger. Bold as a 
Barnard, \ bear 

Bertram, Old, Ger Bright raven 
Bethuel, Hebrew, Man of God 
Bezaleel, Hebi'cw, In the shadow 

of God 
Boniface, Latin, A benefactor 



Constant, j&rt/«n, Faithful 

CoNSTANTiNE,Z/a</n,Resolute 

Cornelius, Z,a<i» (Uncertain) 

Crispus, "j 

Crispin, V Latin, Having curly 

Crispian, ) hair 

Ci THBERTj^nflr-iS'asr.Noted 

8i)lendor 
Greek, Of Cyprus 
Greek, Lordly 
Persian, The Sun 



Cyprian, 

Cyril, 

Cyrus, 



Dan, Hebrew, A judge 

Daniel, Hebrew, Adivine judge 
Darius, Persian, Preserver 
David, Hebrew, Jk'loved 
Demetrius, GreeA, Belonging to 

Ceres 
Denis, / Greek, The god of 
Dennis, \ wine 

Derrick, Old Ger. See Theodoric 
DEKTEit, Latin, Fortunate 
DiONYsius.G'reeA, The God of 

wine 
Donald, Celt, Proud chief 
Duncan, Celt, Brown chief 

Eben Hebrew, A stone 

EBKNEZEB.^eftret/;, The stone of 
help 



WHAT TO NAME THK HABY. 



377 



Edoak, ^M[/-jSaa;.Aprotector()l 

property 
Edmond, Ang-Sax Defender 

of property 
Rdward, Ang-Sax Guardian 

of property 
Edwin, An',-Sax.Qa,meT of 

property 
Egbert, Old Oer. Famous witi 

the sword 
Elbert, Old (7e/*,Illu8triou8 
EiiDKEi), Atig-Sax.terrihle 
EucAZKK, Hebrew, To whom God 

is a help 
Eli, Hebrar, A foster son 

Eliab Hebrew, God is his 

father 
Eliakim, Hebrew, Whom God 

sets up 
Elias, Hebrew, Jehovah is my 

God 

Elihu, Hebrew, God the Lord 
Elijah, Hebrew, Jehovah is my 

God 
ELiPHALET,^«6rew,God of Sal- 
vation 
Elisha, Hebrew, God of my 

Salvation 
Ehzur, Hebrew, God is my 

rock 
Ellis, Hebrew, A variation of 

Klisha 
Elmer, ^/if/-iS'ar.Noble 
ELNATHAN,//r^;r'2<', God gave 
Emmanuel, Hebrew, God with us 
Emery, \ 
Emmery, |- Ang-Sax.]^\c]x 

f^lMORY, j 

Enbas, Greek, Praised 
Enoch, Hebrew, Dedicated 
Enos, Hebrew, Man 
EtHRAiM, Hebrew, Very fruitful 
Erasmus, Oreek, Ainia))le 
Erastus, Oreek, Lovely 
Eric, Aivj iSax.Rich 

Irnestcs,}^^^^^'"' Earnest 

Esau, Hebrew, Coverel with 
hair 



Kthan, Hebrew, Firmness 
Eugene, Greek Nob!e 
1']U8EUH'S, Greek, Pious 
Eustace, Greek, Healthy 
Evan, lirUish, The gracicius 

gift of (Jod 
EvEKAUij, Old (?er. Strong as a 

wild hoar 
EzKKiEL, Ilebr-w, Strength of 

God 
Ezra, Hebrew, U»lp 

Felix, Latin, Happy 

FERl)iNAND,0/rf Gcc.lirave 

Fernando,OW Oer. Valiant 

Festus, Latin, Joyful 

Francis, \ 

Fra n k , y French , Free 

Franklin, J 

Frederic, ) OW (?«/•. Peaceful 

Frederick, \ ruler 

(iABRiEL, Hebrew, Man of God 
(rAius, Latin, Rejoiced 
GAMALrEL, //eftreu',Recompense 

of God 
Garret, Old Ocr. Strong with 

the sp(!ar 
(iERMAN, ) Latin, German 
Germaine, f 
Geoffrey, OW Oer. At peace witb 

God 

Georce, Greek, A landhol'ler 
Gerald, ) Old O'er. Strong with 
Gerard, ) the spear 

(4ERSH0M, Hebrew, An exile 
Gideon, Hebrew, A destroyer 
Gilbert, Old (7er,Famous 
Giles, Greek, A kid 
Given, English, vxift of CJod 
Goddabd, Old Oer Virtuous 
Godfrey, Old Oer. At peace witk 

God 

Godwin, ^n<7-iSrfa;.Good in war 
Gregory, German, Watchful 
Griffith, British, Having great 

faith 
GtTSTAVUS,iS'M'erf/.'.7;, A warrior 
Guy, French, A leader 



378 



WHAT TO NAME THE BABY. 



Hannibal./'h/u'c, Grace of Baal 
Harolu, a ng-Sax. a chnminon 
Hkman, Hebrew, Faithful 
Hknby, Old Qtr. The head or 

chief of a house 
Hekbsbt, Ang-Sax.QloTy of the 

army 
HKECtTLKSjCraJb, Lordly fame 
Hkkman, Old Qer. A warrior 
HEZKKlAH,//<6re«0,StrenKth of 
the Lord 
Hii-ARY, Lalin, Merry 
llii.LEL, Hebrew, Praise 
Hi RAH, Hebrew, Most noble 
Homer, Qreek, Security 
Horace, "j Oreek, (uncertain) 
Horatio, j" 

HosEA, Hebrew, Salvation 
Howell, liritM, Whole 
Herbert, Old Gar. Bright in 
spirit 

Hu?io! } '^«^'^^> Spirit 
HuMPHRKY,u47»flr. Sax. Protector 
of the home 



Jacob, Hebrew, A supplanter 
Jairub, Hebrew, Tie will en- 
lighten 
Hebrew, \ supj^anter 
Hebrew, Enlargement 
Hebrew, Descent 
Gre^h, A healer 



Persian, (uncertain) 



James, 
Japukth, 

J A ROD. 
J A. SON, 

Jaspbr, 

Javan, Hebrew, Clay 

Jkuediaii, Hebrew, Beloved of 

the Lord 
Jekfrey, Olo Qer. At peace 

with God 
JEHKMiAit, ^ Exalted of 



Jkremias, 
Jkremy, 

J K ROME, 

Jesse, 
Joab, 



y Hebrew, 



the Lord 



JcHABOD, Hebrew, The glory haa 

departed 
Ignatius, Greek, Ardent 
lMMANrKL,//f/»?v?/>, God with us 
Increase, Enqlisk, Increase of 

faith 
IxoRAM, Teutunic, Raven, 



Inioo, Greek, Ardent 
Tra, Hebrew, Watchful 

Isaac, Hebrew, Laughter 
ISALAH, Hebreio, Salvation of 

the Lord 
Israel, Hebrew, A Holdier of 

God 
Ithiel, Hebrew, God is with 

me 
Ivan, British, The gracious 

gift of God 
Ivory, English, The gracious* 

gift of God 
Jabbz, Hebrew, He will 

pain 



Greek, Holy name 
Hebrew, Wealth 
Hebrew, Jehovah is his 

father 
Hebrew, Afflicted 
Hebrew, The Lord is 

God 
Hebrew, The gracious 

gift of (iod 

j- Hebrew, A dove 

J OS XTHAH, Hebrew, Gift of Jeho- 
vah 
Hebrew, He shall add 
Hebrew, God of salva- 
tion 
1 ,, , Given of the 
j "'^""'''^ Lord 
Hebrew, The Lord is 

uprif^ht 
Hebrew, Praised 
Latin, Sprung from 
Greek, Soft haired 
Latin, Just 
Latin, Just 

Ang.-SaT. A defender 
of lii« kindled 
Kenneth, Gaelic, Commander 

Laban, Hebrew, White 
causelLAMBERT, ('I'l Ger. Illustrious 

I with landed possessions 



Job, 
Joel, 

John, 

Jonah, 
Jonas, 



JOSEI'H, 

Joshua, 
Jcsiah, 

JOSIAS, 
JOTHAM, 

JUDAH, 

Julian, 
Julius, 
Justin, 
Justus, 

Kenelm, 



WHAT TO NAME THE BABY. 



379 



Lancelot, Italian, A littlo angel 
Laurenck, \ T„f;„ Crowned 
Lawrenck, / ^°""' with laurel 
TiAZARtJS, J/ehrew, God will helj) 
Leander, Oreek, Lion-man 
Lebbkuh, Hebrew, Praise 
Lemuel, Hebrew, Created by 

fJod 
Liokard, (lerman,^iiong as a 

lion 
Lkonidas.G'jvp*, Liou-like 
Ltoi'oiiU, Old Qer, Bold for the 

people 
Lett, Hebrew, Adhesion 

Lewis, OhlQer. Bold warrior 
Linus Oreek, Flaxen-haired 
Lionel, Latin, Young lion 
LLEWRi,TiYN/.V/^ Lightning 
LoAMMi, Uebreto, Not my 

people 
LoDOWiOK, Old Oer.liolil warrior 
Lorenzo, Latin, Crowned with 

laurel 
Lot, Hebrevf, A veil 

Louis, Old Ger. \lo\il warrior. 
LuiiiN, Ang-Seix.heloved 

friend 
LuoiAN, Latin, Belonging to 

Luuius 
Lucius, Latin, Born at break 

of day 
LuDovic, Old O'er. Bold warrior 
Luke, Latin, 
LuTMER, German, Tllush ious 

warrior 
LYOURQUS.^^r^fife, Wolf -driver 

Madoc, Welsh, Go»d 

Malaohi, Hebrev!, Messenger of 
the Lord 

Manasseh, //e6rew,Forgetfulne88 

Marcellus, Latin, 

Marcius, \ 

Marcus, I Latin, A hammer 

Mark, j 

MAnmAi)VK.K,An(j-ifax.A. mighty 
noble 

M ARTiN. Latin, Warlike 

Matthew, Hebrew, Gift of Jeho- 
vah 



MATTHiAS,Z/<'6retr, Gift of the 

Ijord 
Mauriok, Latin, MooriHh 
Maximilian, La/i», The greatest 

yEuiilianui 
Mkhkbitu, Celt, Sea protector 
MicAii, Hebrew, Wliois like 

the Lord 
Michael, ^«&r0w, Who is like 

God 
Mir,KB, Ijotin, A soldier 
MoKOAN, British, A Heaman 
Moses, Egyptian, I )rawn out of 

the water 

Naaman, Hebrew, Pleasantness 
Nahum, Hebrew, Consolation 
Napoleon, (7rf«?i, Lion of the 

forest dell 
Nathan, Hebrew, (Jiven 
Nathanaki,, ) Heb.'lhe gift of 
Nathaniei,, ) God 

Neal, I 

Neil, | Latin, Dark 
NEUEMiAH,//e6. Comfort of the 

Lord 
Nicholas, | Oreek, Victory of the 
XicoLAS, j' people 

Noah, Hebrew, Comfort 
NoKL, Latin, Born on 

Christmas day 
Norman, Oerman,A native of 

Normandy 

Obadiah, Hehreio, Servant of the 

Lord 

OuKD, Hebrew, Serving God 

Ootavius, I Laiin^ The eighth 
Octavus, ) born 

(Jlivkr, Latin, An olive-tree 
Ori.stes. Oreek, A mountaineer 
Or.LANDO, 7'eM<onJc,Fame of the 

land 
Oscar, Celt, Bouading 
warrior 
Osmond, ) Old (?«'•. Protection of 
Osmund, " God 

Oswald, Old Qer. Power of God 

OSWOLD, J 

Owen, Celt, Lamb 



38o 



WHAT TO NAME TIIK BABY. 



OziAS, hi'brew, Strengtli of 
the Lord 

Patrick. Lathi, Noble 

Paul, \ 

Paulus, \ Latin,L[tile 

Paulincs, J 

Pkleg, Jlebieio, Division 

Pkreorine, Latin, A stranger 

Pkter, Greek, A rock 

Piii'jAVDER Oreek, A lover of men 

'Pnu.KtAO-:^, Greek, loving 

Philip, Greek, A loverof 

horses 
^^I^^EAS, ) Hebrexc, '^lontXx of 
Pm.VBHAS, f hrasa 

Pius, Latin, Dutiful 

Pliny, Latin, (uncertain) 
Prkslrveij, /i7».iy//.9'(, Redeemed 
Ptolbmy, Greek, Mighty in 

war 

QtJiNTiN, Latin, The fifth 

Ralph, Old Oer. Famous wolf 
Randal, .^n.-i^oa; House wolf 
Raphael, Hebrew, The healing of 

God 

Raymovd) ^,, ^^„ Wise protec- 
Ravmund}^^''^"'- tion. 
Reginald,OM (?er. Strong ruler 
Reuben, Hebrew, Behold, a son 
Reuel, Hebrew, A friend ofGod 
Reynold, Old Ger. Strong Ruler 
Richard, Old Ger. Rich hearted 
Robert, Old Oer. Bright in fame 

RoDSScK,}^^'^^^''l^»<^hinfame 

loDOLPHUS \ O^'^ <^«''-^-'"- ^«lf 

Roger, Old Oer. Y&xnonz witli 
the spear. 

Roland, Old O'er. Fame of the 
land 

Rowland, OW O'er. Fame of the 

land 

Rudolph. ) r^i i n tj 
RuDOLrHusf^^'^^^''-Hero 

RuFUS, Latin, Red 
RuPKRT, OW f/e,-. Bright in fame 



Salmon, IlrbretP, Shady 
Sampson, [ /^«*»-e«>,Splendid sun 
Samuel, Hebrew, Heard of (;od 
Saul, Hebrew, Asked for 

Seba, Hebrew, Eminent 

Sebastian, Oreek, Reverend 

Seiiono, Iq 1^ Peaceful 
Serenus, ) ^^^^"^ J^«a°""^ 
Seth, Hebrew, Appointed 
SnADRACH.JJetretP, Rejoicing in 

the way 
SiGlSMUND Old Ger. Conquering 

protection 



Silas, 



Latin, 



Jjiving in a 
wood 



SiLVANUS, f 

Sylvester, \ t ,• , Bred in the 
Silvester, j *'"""' country 
Simeon, \ „ i Hearing with. 
Simon, f ^''^'•««' acceptance 
Solomon, Hebrew, Peaceable 
Stephen, Oreek, A crown 
SwiTHiN, ^n. -(Sax Strong friend 
Sylvan, ) r 4- Living in a 
Sylvanus, \ '^"^'"' wood 
Thaddeus, Sitriac, The wise 
Theobald, Old Ger. Bold for the 

people 
Theodore, CreifJfc, ThegiftofGod 
THBODORlOiln-fi'aa;. Powerful 
among the 
people 
iTheophtltts Greek, Aloverof God 
jTnERON, Oreek, A himter 
Thomas, Hebrew, A twin 
Timothy, Oreek, Fearing God 
Titus, Greek, 

ItobJa"' [ ^^''««'' 
Tristam, ) J- .. 

ITristkam K^"''"' 
'Tybalt, Old Ger 



(Uncertain) 

Distinguished 

of the Lord 

Grave 



A contraction 
of Theobald 

Ulysses, Oreek, A hater 
Urban, Latin, Of the town 
Uriah, Hebrew, Light of the' 

Lord 
Urian, Z)rt/*«W<, a husbandman 
Uriel, Hehrtw, Light of God 



WHAT TO NAME THE HAllV. 



381 



Valentine, ^a<m, Strong \ 

ViCTOJi, Latin, A conqueror 
Vincent, Latm, Conquering 
Vivian, Latin, Lively 
Walter, Oil (7«r.Kuling the host 
William, Old (?er. Resolute hel- 
met 
WiNFRED, An-Sax. Win peace 
Zabi>iel, JJebrew,Gift of God 
Zaccheus, Jlebrew, Innocent 
Zacuabiah } tt ,„„ Ecmember- 

Lord 



Zadok, Hebrew, Just 
ZiiiuiuAH ) If 1^ (jlift of the 
Zebedee, \J^'^>rew j^ord 

Zebina, Ifebrew, ]?ought 
Zecuariaii Hebrew, Remembered 

of the Lord 
Zedekiau, Hebrew, Justice of the 

Loru 
Zelotes, Greele, A zealot 
Zen'as, Greek, Giftof Jupiter 
Zei'uaniah, /ye6/-ei^,Hid of the 

Lord 



Abigail, Hebrew, My father's 

joy 

AcHSA, Hebrew, Anklet 
AuA, Old Ger. Happiness 

Adalinb, ^ 

Al>ELA, j 

Adelaide, ^ ^jj n.^, ^^ "o^^e 
Adelia, r^'^^^*- biith 

AdELINA, ; 

Adeline, J 

Agatha, Greek, Kind 
Agnes, Greek, Pure 
Alberta, OW Cer. Feminine of 

Albert 
Alethea, Greek, Truth 
Alexandra. } Greek,Fcm'mmii 
Alexandrina, f of Alexander 
Alice, ) Old Ger. Of noble 
Alicia, ) birth 

Almira, Arabic, Lofty 
Althea, Gi'eek, A healer 
Amabel, Latin, Lovable 
Amanda, Lall.i, Worthy to be 

loved 
Amelia, Old Ger. Busy 
Amy, Latin, Beloved 

Ann, ^ 

Anna, I ^j^ 
Anne, j 
Annette, / 



' A xtoinette, Greek, 
Antonia, Latin, 
Antonina, Latin, 
' A.v,ATiEhijA,Latin, 
'Augusta, Latin, 

AcRELiA, Latin, 

Aurora, Latin, 
AzuBAU, Uebreiv, 






Inestimable 

A fair altar 
Feminine of 

Augustus 
Feminine of 

Aurelius 
Brilliant 
Deserted 



brew, Grace 



[Barbara, Greek, Strange 
Beatrice, \ Latin, Making 
Beatrix, j happy 

Belinda, (Uncertain) 

BENEDiCTA,//ati«, Feminine of 
BenedictuB 
Bertha, Old Ger. Beautiful 

Il^nShe, \ TeutonicWU^. 
Bona, Latin, Good 
Bridget, Celt, Strength 

Camilia, Latin, Attendant at 
a sacrifice 

CAROLiNE,OZd Ger. Feminine of 
Carolus 

Cassandra, (?/'etfifc, She who iu- 

tlamea with 
love 

Catharina, ■] 

Catharine, yGr€ek,Vnre 

Cathekine, j 



l82 



WHAT TO NAME TKE BABY. 



Cecilia, \ Latin, 
Cecily, J 
Celestine, La<iH, 
Celia, Lalin, 



Feminine of 

Cecil 
Heavenly 
I'duiiiine nt 

Coelius 



Charity, Enrilhh, 
CuARLOTTE,C/t/C?er. Feminine of 

Charles 
CiiLOE, Oreeh, Blooming 
CiiKiSTXAKA, ) C/refA-. Feminine of 
CiiiusTiNA, S Cluistiauud 
Cicely, 
Clara, 



Clauice, 
Clarissa 
Claudia, 



Latin, 

Latin, Illustrious 
Latin, 



1 



Clementina 
Clkmenti 
Constance, //o^w, 
Cora, Greek, 
Cordelia,// aim, 

Cokinna, Greek, 
Cornelia, Latin, 

Cyntuia, Greek, 



Feminine of 
Claudius 

^^'lia^m.Mikl 
NE, j 

Finn 

Maiden 

Warm-heart- 
ed 

Maiden 

Feminine of 
Cornelius 

Belonging to 

Mt " 



Ella, ) n^^^K A contraction of 
Ellen, ^ "^^'^*' Eleanor 
Elvira, Latin, White 
Emkline, ( 0/rf Ger.IudustriouB. 
Kmmeline, \ 

I'iMiLY, Old Ger. Industrious 
Emma, Old (/e?'. Industrious 
iFKNESTiNEjCcr. Fem. and dim. 
! of ICrnest 

I'Istiier, Pernian, A star 
I'h'iiELiNU, / Teutonic, ^oh\e 
Ktiielinoa, f snake 

KriioRA, Greek, Good gift 

EuLALiA, Greek, 
Eunice, Greek, 

EUPUEMIA,(?/WA, 

Eva, Hebrew, Life 

Evangeline, 6'ree/;, Bringing glad 

news 
Eve, ) 
Evelina, V Hebrew, hiie 

lilVELINE, J 



Feminine of 
t]ugone 
Fjiir speech 
Happy victory 
Of good report 



Faith, 
Fanny, 



English, 
Gtrman, Free 



Debokah, Ilehrow, A bee 



Delia, 
Diana, 

DiANTlIA, 

Dinah, 
Dora, 

DOECAS, 



Greek, Of Dek 
Latin, Goddess 
Greek, A pink 
Hebrew, Jiraged 
Greek, A contraction 
of Dorothea 
Greek, A gazelle 



Cynthus Faustina, Latin, Lucky 

Fklicia, Latin, Happiness 
Fidelia, Latin, Faitliful 
Flora, Latin, Flowers 
Florence, La^i/i, Blooming 
Frances, German, Feminine of 

Francis 
FREDEUiCAjOWG'er.Femiuine of 

Frederick 



DoRiNDA, Greek, The gift of 

God 
Dorothea, \ Greek, The gift of 
Dorothy, J God 

Drusilla, (Uncertain) 

Edith, Old Ger. Happiness 
Edna, Hebrew, Pleasure 

Elisabeth, 'j 

Elizabeth, [-£re6rei«, Worshipper 

Eliza, J of God 



Georgiana, \ Crtfei, Feminine of 
Georgina, / George 

Geualdine,oW (7er Feminine of 

Gerald 
Gertrude, OW 6'er.Spear-maideD 

Gbiselda, 7'eMfonjc,Snow-heroine 

Hannah, Hebrew, Grace 
Harriet, ) rn i n^^ Fem. dim. of 
Harriet; f ^^^ ^''^- Henry 



WHAT TO NAME THE BABY. 



38J. 



HENRiKTTAjOid Qer.Ycm. ftdim. 

of Henry 
HEPHZlBAH,W«6rcw,My delight is 

in lier 

Sesthk'e. i^----'^^*- 
HiLAKiA, Latin, Feminine of 
Hilary 

ioNOKM, I ^^«'-' Honorable 
Hope, Emjlish, 
HoRTENSiA,La<m, A lady 

gardener 
HuLDAH, Hebrew, A weasel 

Ida, Old Qer. God-like 

Inez, Greek, Pr re 

Irene, Greek, Peaceful 

Isabel, "1 /ici/eto, Worshipper 



Isabella 



,LA, / 



of God 



Jane, \Hebrew, Feminine of 
Janet, j John 

JAQUELiNi,^c6rew,Feminine of 

James 
Jean, "j 

Jeanne, |-f/tf5r«w, Feminine 
Jeannette, j of John 

Jemima, Hebrew, A dove 
Jebusha, Hebrew, Married 
Joan, | 

Joanna, >• /feftrew, Feminize of 
Johanna, ) John 

J08EPHA, ) J3e6ret«,Feminine of 
Josephine, j Joseph 

Joyce, Latin, Sportive 
Judith, Hebreiv, Praised 
Julia, Latin, Feminine of 

Julius 
Juliana, Latin, Feminine of 

Julian 
Juliet, Latin, Feminine of 

Julius 
JuSTlNA, Latin, Feminine of 

Justin 

Katharine, ) ^ , p 
Katherink. f w-'^*'*^"" 



Kmurah, Hebrew, Incense 
Khziah, Hebrew, Cassia 

Laura, I iatin,A\ann\ 
Laurinda, S ' 

Lavinia, Latin, Of Latium 
Leonora, Greek, Light 
Lktitia, ) r^thi. Happiness 

L"'iA^' i Lectin, Lily 

Lois, Oreek, Good 

Lorinda, Latin, A laurel 
Louisa, [ Old Qer. Feminine of 
Louise, ) Louis 

Lucia, 1 r/.«„ Feminine of 
LuciNX^A,/^"'"'' Luciud 
LucRECE, \Latin,Gain 

LUORETIA. j 

Lucy, Xo^m, Feminine of 
Lucius 

Lydia, Oreek, A native of 
Lydia 



Mabel, Latin, Lovable 
Madeline, ) Tr.r„.,,, Belonging 
Magdalene f '"^^'^^" ' toMagdala. 
Marcella, Z/a^m, '.''eminine of 

Marce'lua 
Marcia, Latin, Feminine of 

Marcius 
MAnoAHKT,Greek, A pearl 
Maria, Hebrew, Bitter 
Marianne, f/eire»', Compound of 
Mary and Ann 
Marion, Hebrew, a French form. 

of Mary 
Martha, Hebrei^ The ruler of 

the house 
Mary, Hebrew, Bitter 
Mathilda, ) 

^Iatilda, > Old fftfr-Mighty 
Maud, ) battle-maid 

May, The month of 

May 

Meiietabel, ) Hebrew,Unt^\*A 
Meiiitable, j 

Melicknt, Latin, Sweet singer 
Melissa, Greek, A bee 



334 



WHAT TO NAME THE BABY. 



Mercy, Eiu/lish, 

Mildred, 6e'r. Mild threaten - 

or 
M.UAMiA, Latin,, Admirable 
MiuiAM, Hebrew, Bitter 
Myka, Oreek, Sha who weeps 

or laments 



Nanot 




A familiar 
form of 
Anne 


KOBA, 




A contraction 
of Honora and 
Leonora 


OCTAVIA, 


Latin, 


Feminine of 
Octavius 



Ophelia, Oreek, Serpent 
Olympia, Oreek, Heavenly 

Patience, EngliKh, 
Paula, Latin, Fem. ofPaulus 
Paulina, ) Latin, Feminine of 
Pauline, ) Paulinas 

PENELOPt,(?re^/;, A weaver 
I'EKSis, Oreek, A Persian 
woman 
Phebe, Greek, Pure 

PiiiLippA, Oreek, Feminine of 

PhHip 
Phillis, Oreek, A green bough 
Pug'be, Oreek, Pure 
Phyllis, Oreek, A green bough 
PRi,sciLLA,i/rt<m, Soniewliat old 
Prudence, English, 

IIachf.l, Hebrew, A ewe 
Rebecca, ) /ieftreWjOfenchanting 
Rkbekau, \ beauty 

RiiODA, Greek, A rose 
KosA, Latin, A rose 

Rosabel, U„^;„, A fair rose 
Rosabella, j ' 

Rosalia, "j Latin, Little and 
Rosalae, / blooming rose 



Rosalind, Latin, Beautiful as a 
rose 

Rosamond, 'Teutonic, ^forse pro- 
tection 

Roxana, Persian, I );vwn of day 

Ruth, Hebrew, Beauty 

Sabina, Latin, A Saline wo- 
man 

Sabrina, Latin, The river 

Severn 

Salome, Hebrew, Peaceful 

Salva, Latin, Safe 

sISa'h,}^'^^^^"'' Aprincegg 
Selina, Oreek, Parsley 
Serena, Latin, Feminine of 

Sereno 

Sibyl, \ Oreek, A prophetess 
Sibylla, / 

Sophia, Oreek, Wisdom 
SoPHRONiA,G';'eeX-, Of a sound 
mind 

Stella, Latin, A star 
STEi'iiANA,6?reei, Feminine of 

Stephen 
Susan, \ 

Susanna, >■ Hebrew^A lily 
Susannah, ) 



Tabitha, Syriac, A gazelle 
Temperance, i5»(7?/sA 
THEODORA.Creei, Feminine of 

Theoilore 
THE0D0siA,(?reei, The gift of 

God 
Theresa, Qreek, Carrying ears 

of corn 
Thomas ) J2e6reii',Feminine 
TuoMASiNE, ) of Thomas 

TBYiiHENA,G'?-eeA:, Delicate 
TitYPHOSA, Gi'eek Dainty 

Ulrica, Old Oer. Rich 
Urania, Greek, Heavenly 
Ursula, Latin, She-bear 



WHAT TO NAME THE BABY, 



38s 



Valkria, Latin, Feminine of 

Valerius 
Victoria, Latin, Victoria 
ViDA, Erse, Feminine of 

David 
Viola, Latin. A violet 
Virginia, Latin, Pure 
Vivian, Latin, Lively 



WiLHELMiNA, OWCt'r.Feminine 
of Wilhelm 

Winifred, 7'eu^OM/c, A lover of 
peace 

ZiCNOBi/i, Oretk, Having life 

from Jupiter 



INDEX. 



(i 



KBCEIPT 

A German dish 1 38 

A good restorative (1) 1242 

" (2) 1243 

" (3) 1244 

" A pleasaait drink.. 1245 
Accidents from edge tools,&c. 1297 
<« •• substances in 

the eye (1).. 1208 
" (2).. 1299 
" (3).. 1300 
" (4).. 1301 
substances in 
the ear (1).. 1302 
" (2).. 1303 
«• (3).. 1304 
" (4).. 1305 
substances in 
the throat{l).. 1306 
•' (2).. 1307 
«« (3)..1308 
•• (4).. 1309 
Ale or beer, to recover flat. ..1136 

Mulled 1137 

Almonds & raisins for dessert. 910 

Annisette 1140 

Apoplexy 1319 

Apples, dessert of 913 

" a,nd rice, stewed 901 

<• '• spiced 902 

Artichokes, with white sauce 446 

Au gratin 452 

Fried 450 

Mashed 449 



i« 






u 



(C 



TiEORlPT 

Beans, Haricot (1) 410 

" (2) 411 

'• French 414 

" " to preserve ... . 415 

'• Lima 412 

" and butter 413 

Beef, fillets of, with olives. . 161 

A la mode 166 

Braized 178 

Cake (cold meat cookery).. 168 

Collops 171 

Corned 167 

(Cold meat cookery) 169 

Fillets of, a la Chateaubri- 
and 164 

Grenadins of 162 

Hunter's 180 

Olives 176 

Omelet 177 

Sausages 172 

Spiced 159 

Stewed (1) |65 

" (2) 179 

Tea, quickly made (1) 1223 

(2).... 1224 
savory... 1226 

Tongue 184 

Beefsteak pudding 160 

" pie 163 

" bruized 182 

" stuffed 176 

Beer, hop 1138 

Nettle 1139 



(f 



Stewed 451 Bee sting, to remove 1282 



With cream 447 

With gravy 448 

Asparagus 442 

'* and eggs 444 

" in ambush 443 

** pudding , . . . 445 



Beet roots 382 

Beets, to pickle 485 

Bifsteck, saute 183 

Biscuits, seed 622 

Cocoanut 692 

Graham 588 



388 



INDEX. 



KEOKIPT 

Biscuits (continued) — 

Hard 697 

Lemon ()9 1 

Milk r)90 

Oatmeal (589 

Of fruit G98 

Orange 688 

Plain, and very crisp.... (597 

Rice 094 

Rock 6'.t0 

Soda 09 

" 589 

Biscuit baking powder 591 

" '« for babies 09H 

Bites of snakes 1 '28.S 

Of dogs 1-284 

Blanc-mange, isinglass 88.3 

Almond 8'.)2 

Chocolate 890 

Clear 880 

Corn-flour . 888 

Ribbon 889 

Rice 887 

Strengthening . 125J3 

Blister, to raise a, speedily . . 1340 

Kloater toast 87 

Brandy, caraway 1G09 

Cherry, excellent (1) 1207 

(•2) 1208 

Lemon 1206 

Orange 1205 

Bread & cake, observations p. 104 

Bread, American corn 582 

Brown (1) 509 

(2) 570 

(3) 571 

" (4) P72 

(5) 573 

*' steamed 574 

•• Boston, delicious 

and genuine .... 575 
Corn, steamed, (Canadian). 577 

" balicd 578 

French 508 

Homemade (1) .. 502 

(2) 503 

Omelet 580 

Tlain 566 



RECEIPT 

Broad (continned) — 

Kico 579 

" and wheat 507 

Bye 676 

Soda 581 

White 664 

Yeast 565 

Brotli, Scotch mutton 7 

A splendid, for weakness... 1218 

Boot 1215 

Beef,8iniple way of making. 1221 

•' mutton and veal 1219 

Calves' feet 1220 

Chicken 1211 

Kel 1213 

i';gg i'2i2 

Hasty 1217 

Scotch 1210 

Veal 1210 

Bruises 1280 

Bunions, treatment of 1.335 

Bubble and squeak (cold meat 

cookery).... 176 

Bullock's heart, roast 173 

Buns 003 

Easter 004 

Spanish 602 

Buttermilk 1086 

Butter, preserving 1083 

Apple 1090 

A pretty dish of 1095 

Curled 1092 

Daisy 1093 

Maitre d'Hotel 1088 

Melted 1094 

To serv.> as a little dish . . . 1091 

Water cress 1089 

Cabbage, boiled .303 

Ala caulillower 304 

A la crenic 307 

Kn ragout 300 

Farce, or stuffed 305 

Retl, to pickle 478 

" to stew 370 

Cake, a rich plum 029 

Almond 038 

" icing for 621 

Apple 654 



INDEX. 



389 



RICTEIPTJ 

Cake (continued) — 

JUickwheat 009 

Buttermilk 607 

Cliarlotte, a la Polonako. . 67<') 
C'hocolate (1) 668 

" (2) een 

Cocoanut 677 

Corn starch 685 

Cream and chocolate 639 

Drop ginger 648 

Economical fruit 62(5 

Ginger cup (MS 

" uut8(l) 644 

" •• (2) 645 

" bread 64( 

Hickc-y nut 6(50 

Indian meal, breakfast 617 

" loaf 037 

Italian sponge 659 

Jelly rolls 613 

Johnny G16 

Lemon 671 

Malaga 674 

Marble spice 684 

Metropolitan 656 

Milk and butter 611 

Mush 608 

New York plum 627 

Plain Fruit(l) 623 

«' " (2) 624 

Plain luncheon 682 

Plum 628 

Potato 686 

Queen's (1) 640 

" (2) 641 

Rice (1) 633 

" (2) 635 

Rich rice 634 

" bride 680 

Rose jelly 615 

Rye batter 610 

Scotch snow 678 

" oat 679 

Seed 630 

" good 631 

Short blackberry 665 

"Raspberry or Huckle- 
berry 667 



BECEIPT 

C^ake (continued) — 

Short, Hcotch 666 

" Snanigh 664 

Shrewebury 683 

Silver 676 

Soda 625 

Spice 642 

Sponge 658 

Sponge jelly 612 

•' rolled 614 

Squash 662 

Strawberry, short 663 

Tipsy 651 

' ' sauce 652 

Washington 665 

White bride 681 

Without eggs 673 

Calf's head, collared 218 

Hashed (1) 225 

(2) 226 

" alapoulette 222 

Canned fruits, cherries 1040 

1027 

1028 

1029 

1041 

1030 

1037 

Pineapples 1031 

Plums (1) 1032 

(2) 1038 

Strawberries 1039 

Capers, to pickle 481 

Caper sauce, an excellent 

substitute for 536 

Carrots, to boil 420 

Stewed . , , 421 

Carottes, glacees 422 

I Cassis 1 151 

Caudle 1261 

Cauliflower, boiled 433 

Fried 434 

Scalloped 435 

Celery, puree of 234 

Champagne cup 1152 

Rhubarb 1194 

Charlotte Russe (1) 895 

(2) 606 



Peaches 


(1) 


<i 


(2) 


(( 


(3) 


f( 


(4) 


Pears 


(1) 


>( 


(2) 



39© 



INDEX. 



RECKU'T 

Charlotte Ru 886 (3) 897 

Api)lo 903 

Chernoa, canned 10.S(i 

Cherokee 539 

Chestnuts, to keep for win- 
ter use 102') 

Cheese cakes, curd 804 

Curd'for Ill") 

Lemon 803 

Cheese, a cheap and nutri- 
tious dish of 
Apple 



Cream 
(i 

4t 
II 
II 
I* 



(1)., 

(2).. 

(3). 

(4). 

(5). 
(6)., 



UK) 

11 Of) 
1098 
1099 
1100 
1101 
1102 
1103 

nil 

1109 



Dish 
Muscle plum 

Parmesan pondne 1113 

Potted (1) 1107 

" (2) ..1118 

Roast 1 108 

Sago 1104 

Stewed 1114 



Straws 



(1) 1106 

(2) 1120 

Toast (1) 1110 

" (2) 1112 

To make 1096 

To preserve sound 10&7 

Chicken patties 118 

A la jardiniere 122 

Braided, with mushrooms 131 

Croquettes 120 

Cutlfets, with rice 121 

Jellied 124 

Rissoles 123 

Topril (1) 127 

'\ (2) 128 

Chilb'ains, ointment for . . . . 1345 

C :)colate icing for cakes, 

simple 622 

To prepare 1128 

" for sick room... 1247 

Chou rouge, en quartiers .... 368 
Aux pommel ..>!..>>»».> 360 



IlEOKIPT 

Chou rouge (continued) — 
Marino. . 371 

Chutnt'c. green gooseberry... 540 

Himalaya 543 

My mother's 542 

Claret cup liGO 

Cocoa, to make 1127 

Cod's head and shoulders, 

boiled (1) 45 

" (2) 40 

Cod, salt 47 

Balls 53 

Crimped, and oyster sauce. 51 

Curry of , 48 

Fish cakes r>0 

Roos . . 49 

Stakes, with mock oyster 
sauce 52 

Coffee, how to refine 1124 

Another method of making 1 126 
Milk 1129 

Cold 1325 

An excellent remedy for a. 1324 
Cold, how to prevent . . . 1326 

Colorings for confectionary p. 253 

Pink 924 

Red 925 

Cherry red 926 

Blue 927 

Yellow 928 

Green 929 

Brown 930 

For soups or gravies 297 

Cordial, a strong 1 172 

White currant 1171 

Corn, boiled 429 

Green, stewed 428 

Roasted 430 

Cough 1327 

A nice drink for a 1262 

Hooping 1313 

Crab, hot 70 

Boiled 71 

Mock, dressed 72 

Soft 73 

Cracknels 687 

Cramp 1332 

Cranberry drink %.«.»» ll^fO 



INDEX. 



301 



KKOKIPT 

Cream, almond W\4 

Brandy U.'jO 

Burnt (1) 94") 

•' (2) 94(J 

Caramel O'lO 

Chocolate OOO 

'• ice 0;U 

Clouted 10H4 

Coffee 9GI 

" ice 9.U 

Crystal palace 953 

Dutch 940 

French rice 957 

Ginger 908 

Ice(l) 933 

" (2) 935 

" from milk 937 

Italian ice 934 

Lemon 962 

" solid 963 

" made without cream 952 

Orange 954 

Parisienuc, 947 

Pine apple 948 

Raspberry 955 

Ratafia 953 

Soda 1167 

Strawberry 951 

Substitute for 944 

Tapioca 969 

Tea 965 

To manage for whey butterl087 

Velvet 959 

Whipped 966 

for a trifle 967 

Cream of tartar whey 1162 

Croup 1334 

Cucumbers, to dress 403 

A la niaitr3 d'notel 406 

A la poulotte 408 

Fircis 407 

Fried 405 

Frits 409 

Pickled 482 

Stewed 404 

Currants, frosted 911 

Curries, observations on, j^nge 93 



RKCKirr 

Curry -JSl 

A Turkisli <liHh 277 

A dry Miilav 274 

r-oiled rice for 278 

iJry 287 

Indian 271 

Mutton 273 

rutato(l) 2.S3 

C^) 284 

" (3) 285 

'• (4) 286 

Powder 270 

Curried beef 280 

Kggs 279 

Lobflter 275 

Rabbit 272 

Trir« 282 

Custard 986 

Almond 983 

•' boiled 982 

Apple 589 

Baked 987 

Beef tea 1225 

Boiled 981 

Caramel 992 

Chocolate 990 

For cake 998 

•* sickroom '2P0 

French '^^ ' 

Frozen, with fruit >8(I 

Orange f» S4 

Snow 993 

Dessert, observations on fruit, 

etc 248 

Impromptu 912 

Devonshire junket 908 

Diarrhoea 1314 

Diptheria 1315 

Sulphur treatment of 1316 

Diseases of infants 1310 

Doughnuts 606 

Draughts, effervescing saline. 1174 
Drink, a nice 1'204 

A fever (1) 1265 

" (2) 12('.6 

Drowned, how to restore a 
person apparently. . » » . . 1278 



39* 



INDEX. 



EBOEIPT 
Dumplings, apple, boiled .... 702 

Currant 703 

Lemon 705 

Korfolk 704 

Oxford 738 

Dyspepsia, heartburn and aci- 
dity 1346 

Ear, deficiency of wax in the.13.38 
Accumulation of wax in thel339 

Eeel pic 109 

Eels, to boil 110 

Egg plant, baked 424 

Eggs, observations on . . .pa^c 147 

A la soubise 494 

A la maitre d'liotel 495 

Au gratin 491 

Buttered 498 

Fried (1) 499 

•' (2) 500 

«« with black butter.... 601 

Fried, with tomatoes 502 

" " bacon 603 

" «' ham 504 

Incases 497 

, Pickled... 484 

Poached, on toast 486 

•' on ham toast 487 

" and spinach 488 

'• and minced chicken 489 

" on a puree of game 490 

Scrambled, with asparagus 506 

" " tomatoes.. 507 

«• " onions.... 508 

•« ♦' fish 509i 

«« «« ham 510 

" " cheese.... 511 

" on toast 512 

Stewed 493 

Stuffed 492 

To keep fresh for several 

weeks 525 

With sorrel 496 

Egg tea toast 1252 

Epilepsy 1319 

*' Dr. CuUeo'e treatment 

ef 1320 



RECKIPT 

Eyes, for weak, or inflamed (1)1337 
(2) 1338 

Fever, typhoid 1317 

" scarlet 1312 

Figs, dish of 914 

Fish, observations on . ..page 31 

Croquettes 113 

Pate 69 

Fits 1317 

Flavors, bisque 940 

Chocalate ice cream 941 

Fruit ice cream 942 

" ices 943 

Lemon 9.19 

Vanilla 938 

Floating island 906 

Flummery (1) 881 

(2) 882 

Dutch 884 

Rice 883 

Forcemeats, observations on p. 161 
Forcemeat, to force fowls or 

meat 549 

Balls for mock turtle 554 

" for soup 655 

Common, for veal or hare.. 551 

For cold savory pie 550 

" pulled turkey 151 

'• fish soups 552 

Oyster, for roast or boiled 

turkey 556 

Very fine balls, for fish 
soups, or stewed fish ... 553 

Fowl, to boil 119 

Braized, with macaroni .. .. 130 

Galatineof 129 

Stewed in barley 1228 

To roast 120 

Fractures 1277 

Freckles, lotion to remove. ..1343 

Fritters, apple 848 

Clieese 851 

Cream 846 

Custard 850 

Orange (1) 843 

" (2) 844 



INDEX. 



353 



B£C£Ii'T 
Fritters (continued) — 

Plain 849 

Raspberry 8i)3 

Rice 847 

Spanish 845 

Frothing, excellent for cakca 620 

Froth, for 907 

Fruits, mixed dish of 920 

Canned P*Me 279 

Compote of 921 

To l)ottlc 1038 

Stoue, to bottle 1040 

Game, chaufroid 149 

Espec 150 

Puree of 1 32 

Garlic vinegar 546 

Gateau de Savoie, French 

sponge cake 657 

Genoise, chocolate 826 

Almond 827 

Giblets, to stew 130 

Ginger, apple 919 

Biscuits 649 

Snaps 650 

Gingerbread, honeycomb. . . . 647 

Gingerette, Spanish 1149 

Ginger beer (1) 1146 

" (2) 1147 

" powders 1144 

Cordial ■ 1148 

Liqueur 1145 

Pop 1150 

Gooseberry fool 898 

Gooseberries, green, to bottlel039 

Grapes, in brandy 1 024 

Gravy, for pulled turkey. . . . 15? 
A good beef, for poultry or 

game 288 

For roast meat 290 

'• venison 291 

" hashes 294 

' ' a fowl, when there is 
no meat to make it 

from 295 

Savory, thick 289 

Sippets 1241 



KECTEIPT 

Gravy (continued) — 

Stiongfish 292 

Veal 29e 

Gravies, general diroctiona 

respecting pose 99 

Coloring for soups or 297 

Gruel, water 1256 

Effervescing 1257 

Barley 1258 

Egt; 1259 

Haddock, with tomatoes. ... 112 
Halibut, baked 115 

Boiled 114 

Stake 116 

Ham, baked 201 

How to boil to give it an ex- 
cellent flavor 199 

Potted 200 

Toglazea 202 

Haricot beans, puree of 233 

Headache 1327 

Bilious, or sick 1329 

Health, rules for the preser- 
vation of 1348 

Hemorrhage 1281 

Herbs, to dry 533 

Herb powder, for winter use. 544 
Herrings, red, to dress 85 

Baked, or sprats 86 

Hiccough 1331 

Hominy (1) 973 

" (2) 974 

" and cheese 1117 

Baked 1253 

Hooping Cough 1313 

Hysteria 1321 

Hysterica 1341 

Iceland Moss 1067 

Ices and creams page 255 

Icing for cakes (1 ) 618 

(2) 619 

Jam, apple 1009 

Apricot, or plum 1004 

Blackberry 1003 



394 



INDEX. 



RECEIPT 
Jam (continued) — 

Black currant 996 

Cherry 1007 

Damaon n!>9 

Gooseberry 998 

Green grape 1002 

Mulberry 1000 

Plum 994 

Quince 1008 

Raspberry 997 

Red currant 995 

Rhubarb 10 H 

Strawberry 1005 

*' or barberry 1006 



Jaunemange 891 

Jellies, observations on.. page 284 Ketchups, observation^ on, pagel56 



BECEIPT 
Jelly (contiiined) — 

Quince (1) 1050 

{•2) 1062 

" and apple 1063 

Raspberry 1069 

Red. ' urrant 1052 

Red gooseberry 1 059 

Sago ..1077 

Shank 1235 

Sweet wine 1075 

Tapioca 1237 

White currant 1054 

Jumbo piukle 477 

Jumbles 636 



Jelly, a nice 1071 

A tasty 1082 

Apple (1) 1064 

" (2) 1076 

Airowroot 1236 

Aspic 1079 

Barberry 1056 



Ketchup, a useful 547 

Lemon 527 

Muahroom 526 

Oyster, without the liquor. .548 

Tomato (1). ,528 

(2) ,529 

Walnut 530 



Black currant 1053 

Blackberry 1055 Lady fingers 661 

Cherry 1051 Lamb, epigrammes of 251 

Claret 1080i Chops 255 



Crab-apple 1049 

Cranberry and rice 1081 

Fruit 1046 

Gloucester 1239^Lard, to make. . 

Green gooseberry 1058 Leaves, to fnist 



Fry, French 1231 

Stewed 254 

Tails of 256 

253 

923 



Hartshorn 1072.Lemon kali 1143 

Ivory 1073 Lemons, to pickle 480 

Lemon 1039 Lemonade (1) 1132 

Macedoine de fruits a la " (2) 1133 

gelles 1078 1 Milk 1134 

Meat 1238 Liquors, to refine 1180 



Medlar 10.57 

Milk 1068 

Mixed fruit 1061 

Mulled 1048 

Orange 1070; 

Peach 1066 

Pineapple 1047 

Pork 1234 

Punch... v.»..w».v....... 1074 



Lobster croquets 67 

" ♦• 68 

Potted 64 

" as at Queen's hotel . . 65 

To boil 63 

To dress 66 

Macaroni 1122 

Alaruni....« 1123 



INDEX. 



395 



RECKIVT 

Mapcaroons 672 

Maukerel 92 

Pickled, called caveade. ... 93 

Scal'ioped 91 

Maids of honor 865 

Marma'ade, apple 1018 

Orange 1017 

Quince 1016 

Measles 1311 

Meats, observations on, page 61 

Meat juice 1222 

Milk, butter and cheese, ob- 
servations on page 294 

Milk rice 1274 

Mincemeat, without meat... 743 

With meat 744 

Mouton cornettes de 247 

A ritalienne 248 

Muffins, breakf vst 593 

Graham 594 

Oatmeal 596 

Rice 595 

Mullet, baked 95 

Red, called the sea wood- 
cock 96 

With tomatoes 97 

Mush 1227 

Mushrooms 389 

A la creme 393 

Baked 392 

Broiled 391 

Essence of 395 

Pickled 479 

Powder 396 

Ragout of 394 

Stewed 390 

Mustard, French 541 

To make 531 

'• for immediate use. . . . 532 

Mutton, boned leg stuffed.. 253 

Cutlets 229 

delicate 1230 

Chartreuse of 245 

Croquettes of 246 

Ilarirot 249 

Kidneys a la brochettes . . 263 

" fried .» » 264 



RECEIPT 

Mutton (continued) — 

Kidneys, grilled 265 

*' with macaroni . 266 

Kidney toast 267 

'• al'Indienne 268 

Pudding 250 

Shoulder of, boiled with 

oysters 257 

Nasturtium for capers 537 

Nervous anxiety, to remove. 1341 

Neuralgia 1333 

Nougats, small 653 

Noyeau 1 165 

" 1166 

Nuts, dish of 915 

Oatmeal, drink 1131 

Omelet, cheese 517 

Fish 522 

Ham, or bacon 516 

Kidney 524 

Mushroom 521 

Oyster 523 

Plain 514 

Savory 515 

Tomato (1) 518 

(2) 519 

" (3) 520 

Onions, boiled 383 

" pickled (1) 474 

" " (2) 476 

Spanish, a la Grecque .... 384 

baked 385 

" stewed 386 

Stuffed 388 

Oranges, chartreuse of 1065 

Compote of 893 

Orange chips 904 

Fool 894 

For dessert 909 

Souffle 905 

Orangeade 1 135 

Oxtongue, baked 181 

Oysters, stewed (1) 74 

" " (2) 79 

Angels ou horseback. . . . > . 81 



396 



INDFX. 



RECEIPT 

Oysters (continued) — 

Boiled 75 

Broiled 77 

Cream on the half shell . . 82 
Fried, to garnish boiled 

fish 78 

Patties 83 

Sausages 80 

Scalloped 7G 

Panada, chicken 1240 

Pancakes, English 815 

French (1) 811 

(2) 812 

Irish 814 

Rioe 813 

Parsley, to keep for winter 

use .')45 

Parsnips 397 

American fashion 308 

Buttered 309 

Fried 401 

Fricassed 402 

Mashed 400 

Paste, for mince pies 8;}1 

Light, for tarts 823 

I'otato 839 

Puff 833 

Pyramid 830 

Pastry and puddings, obser- 
vations on page 198 

Pastry, almond (1) 828 

" '• (2) 829 

For sweet sandwiches . . . 832 

Genoise (1) 824 

(2) 825 

To ice or glaze 821 

Venison 785 

Peaches 1037 

In brandy 1022 

Canned (1) 1027 

(2) 1028 

" (3) 1029 

" (4) 1037 

Pears, canned 1033 

For dessert 1041 

Moulded dish of 918 



nECEIPT 

Peas, puree ot, to serve with 

epigrannes of lamb 2S2 

A la Francaise 439 

Au Sucre 440 

En puree 441 

Green, to keep 430 

" as practised in 

the Emperor of Hussia's 

kitchen 437 

Stewed 438 

Perch and tench 88 

And trout, to boil 91 

Perspiration, to produce. ... 1343 

I'etit choux, a la creme 866 

Picalilli, to pickle 483 

Pickles, observations on 143 

Pickle, sweet tomato ..1020 

Sweet peach 1021 

Pie, apple 816 

" 817 

Beefsteak and oysters 791 

Black currant 804 

Chicken 789 

Cocoanut 805 

Cottage 779 

Damson 802 

Eel(l) 781 

"(2) 782 

Giblet 790 

Gooseberry 801 

Hare 786 

Lemon (1) 796 

" (1) 797 

" (3) 798 

Macaroni 788 

Marlborough 810 

Mutton • 795 

Orange and apple 818 

Oyster 792 

Peach 799 

Pigeon 783 

Pudding 806 

Pumpkin(]) 807 

" (2) 808 

" (3) 809 

Raised beefsteak .... .... 784 

•• French. 787 



INDEX. 



397 



KECEIPT 

Pie (continued) — 

Red currant and raspberry 803 

Ehubarb 800 

Veal 793 

" chicken and parsley., 7'.)4 

York 780 

Pickles, observations on.page 143 

Pig, sucking, roast 195 

Pig's pettitoes 1 96 

Fry 191 

Pigeons 146 

To boil 141 

To roast 142 

Pineapples 1031 

Plaster, warming 1347 

Plums 1032 

Canned 1034 

Polish dish 174 

Pop-overs G05 

Pork cheese 197 

Cutlets 194 

Hashed 193 

Leg of, to roast 1 85 

" to boil 186 

Loiu and neck of 187 

Neck of, rolled 189 

Pickled 192 

Pie 190 

Shoulders and breast of.. 188 

Porridge, milk 1248 

French 1245 

Potato balls 356 

Cake 359 

Chips 358 

Potatoes, Bermuda, fried . . 353 

Escalloped 357 

Lyonnaise 351 

Saratoga 352 

Sautees au beiirre 354 

Stewed 355 

Sweet, roast 360 

" boiled 361 

'■' fried 362 

" Stuffed 3r>0 

To boil 315 

" broil 346 

"fry 348 



RECEIPT 
Potatoes (continued) — 

To mash 349 

" roast 347 

Poultry and game, observa- 
tions on page 49 

Powders, seidiitz 1173 

Preserves, observations on p. 268 

Preserve, citron 1012 

Green fig 1010 

Melon 1011 

Orange 1015 

Pumpkin 1013 

Quince, whole 1014 

Pudding, a good baked ... . 764 

Almond 699 

Amber 700 

Apple, boiled 701 

baked 706 

Bakcwell 707 

B\itter 708 

Bread 709 

Brown bread 710 

Cabinet 735 

Caramel 711 

Carrot (1) 712 

Carrot (2) 713 

Charlotte 716 

Christmas 747 

College , . . 736 

Company 732 

Cream tapioca 762 

Currant, boiled 717 

" bun , , 718 

Custard «... 771 

Favorite <,.«. 727 

•• Florentine 767 

French tapicoca. ....»,,,, 764 

Fniit 741 

(linger 720 

Gingerbread 719 

Graham 778 

Ground i-ice 761 

Holiday 733 

Ice 749 

Indian corn flour 773 

Layer 742 

Lemon (1)... 725 



398 



INDEX. 



Puddings (continued)— 

Lemon (2) 726 

Macaroni 770 

Marrow (1) I'M) 

(2) 740 

Martha'8 7U 

Marmalade (i) 728 

" (2) 729 

** sauce for 7H0 

NewcaHtlo 7r)7 

Oatmeal 772 

Orange (I) 721 

•• (2) 722 

•• (3) 72;{ 

Peas 7ir) 

Plain rice 7 ">S 

Plum 74."> 

" an excellent 740 

" a tetotaller's 747 

llasi)bin-ry 7'"'2 

Rod currant 7ril 

Rice and raisin 7 ")5 

" and apple 700 

" custard 759 

Boly poly jam 750 

Seminole .... 708 

Sir Watkin Wynne's 756 

Shropshire 724 

Sponge cake 731 

Steamed 737 

Steak 777 

Sunday 774 

Sweet potato 753 

'* macaroni 709 

Swiss 748 

Tapioca 763 

Tea cake 731 

Velvet 765 

" sauce for 766 

Yorkshire (1) 775 

(2) 776 

Puffs, almond 854 

Chocolate 862 

Cream 858 

For dessert 855 

Graham 860 

Lemon 801 



I KECEIPT 

iPufTs (oontiuued) — 

Orange 859 

Plain 856 

Spanish 857 

Pullctt«, apple 875 

Pumpkins, stewed 453 

Baked 454 

Quail pie 134 

Roasted, with ham 135 

Quinces, braiuUed 1023 

Quinsy 1323 

Rabbit pie 136 

Stewed 137 

" for sick room 1232 

Raspberry, drink 1161 

Acid 1159 

Ratafias 670 

Quince 1141 

Rennet, to prepare 1085 

Rice milk, ground 1250 

Ricotta 1121 

Rolls, breakfast 687 

Butter 684 

Sw iss 686 

Vienna 685 

Roux, brown, a thickening for 

soups and gravies 327 

White, for thickening white 

saucas 328 

Rusks 683 

Sage and onion stuffing for 
pork, ducks, geese, tfcc. , 557 

Sago cream 1246 

Milk 1251 

Salads, observations on, page 137 

Salad 465 

Anchovy 463 

Beet root 468 

Celery 469 

Dressing, Rev. Sydney 

Smith's receipt for 471 

Egg 466 

Game 464 

Lettuce 456 



INDEX. 



399 



HEOKIPT 

Salad (continued) — 

Lobiiter 401 

Oyster 172 

rotate (1) 457 

(2) 458 

" (3) 459 

•• (4) 4(50 

Red cabbage 470 

Russian 4t)7 

Sardine 462 

Sally lunn 59: 

Salmon, dressed, Italian 

sauce 60 

Dried 58 

Fresh, to boil 61 

Fried, with anchovy sauce 59 

Salt, to souse 54 

To broil 55 

To pot 56 

To dry 57 

Salsify, boiled 423 

Sarsaparilla, simple decoctionll77 

Compound decoction of .... 1 178 

Sauces, observations on, page 102 

Sauce, a cheap brown 322 

Anchovy 315 

Bread, for poultry or game 334 

Brown, C-enevoise 321 

Caper 336 

Cauliflower 309 

Chesnut (1) 235 

" (2) 236 

" for roast duck 163 

Cranberry 323 

Dutch 311 

Egg 307 

Fennel 303 

Governor's, a Canadian re- 
cipe 308 

Grill 314 

Hollandais 329 

Horseradish 318 

Italian (1) 237 

" (2) 238 

Liver 302 

Mango Chutnee, Bengal re- 
cipe 306 



RECKIPT 

Sauce (continued) — 

Mayonnaise 319 

Mint 315 

MuBhroom(l) 239 

(2) 240 

" (3) 310 

Oiilon, brown 326 

Oyster S32 

Peach 324 

riquante, without eggs .... 312 

rium pudding 325 

I'oor man's 320 

Remoulade 317 

Shrimp 304 

Soubise(l) 231 

(2) 232 

Sweet 316 

" for venison 835 

Tartare 331 

Tomato (1) 330 

(2) 241 

(3) 242 

" (4) 243 

(5) 244 

Wine 305 

White 298 

♦• AUemande 301 

" Supreme 300 

" Velante 299 

Worcester 333 

Sausages 198 

Scalds and burns 1279 

Scarlet fever 1312 

Shad and herrings, to pot .... 84 

Sherbet powder 1 163 

Persian 1164 

Sippets,fried 613 

Smelts, to fry 108 

Snuff, cephalic 1328 

Soles (1) 98 

" (2) 99 

" (3) 101 

Au gratin 102 

Fillets of, a I'lndienne 100 

Souffle, applci 976 

A la Viceroy, hot 980 

Chocolate (1) 977 



400 



INDEX. 



REOBIPT 

Souffle (continuod) — 

Chocolato (2) 978 

Egg 971 

Of uread and walnuts 972 

Rice 975 

Small cheese 979 

Soups, observations on, page. 17 

Soupa laDauphine 25 

Almond (1) 31 

" (2) 41 

Apple 24 

Asparagus 45 

Barley, creme d'orge 32 

Beef gravy 17 

Brown chicken 16 

Calf's head 13 

Celery 21 

Crowdie, or Scotch 1 

Eel 42 

French 10 

Giblet 12 

Good gravy 6 

Greek 11 

Green pea 20 

Hare 35 

Julienne 26 

Lobster, bisques 33 

Macaroni 2 

Made from bonea 34 

Milk 3 

" with vermicelli 19 

Mock turtle (1) 38 

(2) 39 

MuUagatawney (1) 14 

(2) 27 

Onion 40 

Oyster, a la reine 15 

Oxtail clear 36 

" thick 37 

Rico flour 18 

Roast beef and boiled tur- 
key 8 

Spanish (1) 28 

" (2) 29 

" (3) 30 

Tapioca 4 



BEOKIPT 

Soup (continued).. 

Tomato (1) 22 

(2) 43 

Veal and lamb 9 

White 23 

Spinach 343 

Sprains, treatment of 1285 

Squashes, Bumnier 431 

" winter 432 

Stocks, observations on, pa^e 112 

Common 337 

Fi.-<h 341 

Gravy 338 

Veal 339 

White 340 

Strawberries, dish of 916 

And cream 922 

Canned 1035 

Sick room cookery 1254 

Stuffing for pickle, haddock 

and small cod 117 

Sturgeon, fresh 104 

To roast 103 

Stye 1335 

Summer drink 1142 

Sweet dishes, observations on 

page 240 

Sweetbreads 258 

Sickroom 1233 

Lambs 262 

Larded 261 

Ragout 260 

Roasted 269 

Syllabub, lemon 877 

Solid 880 

Whipped (1) 878 

(2) 879 

Syrups for canned fruit (1). . . 1042 

" " (2). ..1043 

" " (3)... 1044 

" " (4)... 1045 

Currant and raspberry. . . .1176 

Tart, almond < 867 

Apple (1) 819 

" (2) 872 

" (3) 873 

" (4 874 



INDF.X. 



401 



RECKII'T 

Tart (continued) — 

Cherries 870 

Greengage 8(H 

Tartlets, applo 87 1 

" Raspborry and currant 8(»!) 
Rice paste for 820 

Tea, or colVoe, with eggs. . . .ll'jr) 

Camomile 127 

Dandelion 127«i 

Toast and water 120:} 

Toinatc pie 37 

Fritters 37J) 

Tomatoes, au gratin ,378 

Raked 373 

Rroiled 3S0 

Raw 381 

Stowed 372 

stunred 374 

With macaroni (1) 37 

(2) 370 

Triflr, a very fine 8i>9 

Gooseberry or apple 000 

Tripe, to dress 204 

Fried 20; 

Stewed 20(i 

Trout and grayling, to fry ... 80 

A la Gencvoise 90 

Trufllo aud chesnut stuffing.. 11(5 

Sauce 147 

Turbot, au Mayonnaise 10") 

Au gratin, a nice dish for 
luncheon 107 

Fillet of, with Dutch sauce 100 
Turkey, braized 145 

Pulled 148 

To roast (1) 143 

(2) 144 

Turnips, a la creme 418 

A la de maitre 419 

Boiled 410 

Gorman recipe for cooking. 417 
Turnovers, apple 876 

Voal, braized loin of 221 

And ham pie 2X)0 

Veal cake (1) 211 

•• " (2( 212 



HROKIPT 

Voal (oontiuued) — 

Cutlets 220 

Fricandeau of 216 

Golantine 228 

Haricot of 221 

Mashed 213 

Minced 223 

Pudding 210 

Quonollos of 215 

Roast, stullod 207 

Rolled 217 

Sausages £ 19 

Stewed 208 

Trimballs of 227 

Vegetables, observations on p. 114 

Vegetable marrow, fried . . . 426 

Roasted 430 

Stuffed 1229 

To boil or stew (1) 342 

" (2) 427 

With ginger , 1019 

Venison, breast of stewed.. 155 

Hashed, ISO 

Roast haunch of 154 

Vinegar, Chili 5.38 

Currant 1157 

Horsa-radish 635 

Mint 634 

Primrose 1156 

Plant (1) 11.53 

" (2) 11.^)4 

Raspberry 1 1 58 

Sugar 1155 

Waffles 599 

Rice 600 

without yea.st 601 

Walnuts, pickled 476 

To keep fresh 1026 

Water, distilled 1169 

Apple 1267 

Barley 1269 

Currant 1268 

Gooseberry, currant, rasp- 
berry and strawberry . .1169 

Peppermint 1270 

Rhubarb 1170 



402 



IN»EX. 



UKCItlPT 

Whey, vinegar, used in fevers 1271 

Wine 127'2 

"White bttit Ill 

Whitings, fried G'2 

Willi duck, roast l.TJ 

Stewed 157 

Wines und brandies, iiagc... 318 

Wine, bottling of 1179 

Apricot 1187 

Blackberry lli)r) 

Blackcurrant 120'2 

Cherry , IIJI'J 

Diimson 1188 

Kldor, blacker whito 11}»8 

Falsified 11811 

Family, excellent ll!>7i 

Ginger IIHI 

Gooseberry (1) 118'.)! 

" (2) 1190 



HKCKirr 
Wine (continued) — 

Crapo (1) I18R 

" (2) 1186 

Lomon 1184 

Malt 1204 

Mulled 1273 

Orange 1203 

Baisin 11»6 

Kaspbcrry (I) 1199 

" (2) 1200 

" and current. . . . 1201 
Ilhubarb, Stone's patent. . . 1 193 

Tonuill (1) 1182 

" (2) 1183 

Woodcock 158 

Yeibt (1) 558 

(2) C59 

Compressed 560 

I'ytato 601 



