
iJkmmWiMM»«MtsjiM i 



TX 819 
.04 R7 
I Copy 1 



ro 



«/« 




e 



L 



E 




rrm 




i 



A COLLECTION OF 



VALUABLE COOKING RECIPES 



I 



BY 



MRS. S. T. RORER, 

i»inp«cii»Ai^ 

Philadelphia Cooking School. 



^ ^1 TO "^ ^R*^ 



PUBLISHED BY 



/ \ 






WASHINGTON BOTCHER'S SONS, 

PHILADELPHIA. lyv\^ 
1883. 



I 
ll 



I 







^* PHILADELPHIA*^ 

oooKziira souool 



Philadelphia, November 21, 1882, 

Messrs. Washington Butcher's Sons: 

Gentlemen, — I beg leave to acknowledge receipt 

of the case of Olive Butter, and return thanks for the 

same. I have tried it and find it more economical 

and decidedly better than lard, and I will cheerfully 

recommend it. 

Truly yours, 

S. T. RORER. 
1 1 12 Girard Street. 



Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1883, by 

Washington Butcher's Sons, 
In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 



INTRODUCTORY. 



We present ^^How to Use Olive Butter ^^^ 
a collection of valuable recipes^ with a view 
of more fir?nly establishing the great merits of 
this article among the commimity in general. 

We have had numerous encomiums from 
scientists, and from the public press in all 
parts of the country, some of which we ap- 
pend ; among them a letter of endorsement 
fro7n Mrs. S. T. Rorer, the highly-esteemed 
Principal of the Philadelphia Cooking School^ 
and compiler of this book. 

Our aim is to supply a long-needed want, 

and we solicit everybody in search of more 

economical, wholesome, and palatable cookery 

to give Olive Butter an intelligent and careful 

trial. 

WASHINGTON BUTCHER'S SONS. 

Philadelphia, January, 1883. 



HO"W TO USE 



OLIVE BUTTER. 



TEA BISCUIT. 

One quart of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, three 
tablespoon fuls of Olive Butter, milk enough to make 
a batter, half a yeast cake, or half a cup of yeast. 
Boil the milk and let it cool ; add salt, yeast, and 
Olive Butter. Mix well, and add the flour. Now give 
the whole a good beating; cover, and let stand until 
morning:. In the mornintj add sufficient flour to make 
a soft dough ; knead them for ten minutes on the 
board ; pound with a potato masher fifteen minutes, 
and set away to rise in a temperature of 72° Fahr. 
When light, roll out half-inch thick ; cut with a round 
cutter; put in a greased baking-pan; let stand one 
hour; bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. 

SODA BISCUIX. 

One quart of sifted flour, one teaspoonful of salt, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, four tablespoon- 
fuls of Olive Butter, and half a pint of milk (sour is 
best) ; add the salt and baking-powder to the flour. 
Mix well ; add the Olive Butter to the milk, and then 



WASHINGTON BUTCHER'S SONS. 

add it to the flour. Mix thoroughly, but quickly; 
roll out one inch thick; cut with a small, round cut- 
ter ; put in a greased baking-pan ; bake in a very hot 
oven for fifteen minutes. These are delicious. 

MUKKINS. 

One pint of milk or water, one teaspoonful of salt, 
three cups of sifted flour, two eggs, two tablespoon- 
fuls of Olive Butter, and two teaspoonfuls of baking- 
powder. Put the milk into a bowl ; add the Olive 
Butter, salt, and the yolks well beaten. Now add 
flour, and give the whole a vigorous beating; beat 
the whites to a stiff froth, and add them and the bak- 
ing-powder carefully. Fill greased gem pans half 
full of the batter; bake in a quick oven twenty min- 
utes. Yeast may be used, and the muffins may stand 
over night. 

BRKA0. 

A tablespoonful of Olive Butter, added to every 
quart of milk or water, makes your bread kave a very 
delicate crust. 

i»a:ncak:es. 

One quart of flour, one pint of milk (sour is best), 
one teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of baking- 
powder, one egg, one large spoonful of Olive Butter. 
Beat the ^g^ until veiy light; add milk and Olive 
Butter, then salt and flour. Beat well ; add baking- 
powder. Bake on a griddle. Use Olive Butter for 
greasing it. 

^3- 



HOW TO USE OLIVE BUTTER. 



One cup of flour, one tablespoonful of Olive But- 
ter, half a teaspoonful of salt, two eggs, and cold 
water enough to make a thin paste. Put the flour into 
a bowl, with the yolks of the eggs beaten, with half 
a cup of cold water; now add more water, if neces- 
sary, and give a good beating; add salt and oil, and 
then stir in the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth, and put away for at least two hours, but not 
longer than twelve hours. Put a pan of Olive Butter 
on to heat; 7vhen hot, dip up a spoonful of the batter 
and quickly slide it into the hot oil. When brown 
on one side, turn and brown on the other. Take 
out with a skimmer; drain on soft, brown paper; 
dredge with powdered sugar, and serve. 

Fruit fritters are made by dipping the fruit into 
this batter and then frying. White grapes and squares 
of oranges make very pretty fritters. 

One cup of sour cream, two eggs, one cup of sugar, 
one teaspoonful of baking-powder, and flour enough 
to make a soft dough. Beat the eggs until light ; add 
sugar and then the cream. Mix well ; add the baking- 
powder and flour; roll out on a board half an inch 
thick ; cut with a round cutter ; then cut out the centre 
with a smaller cutter, and fry in Olive Butter same as 
fritters. As soon as you are done frying always strain 
"the Olive Butter and put it away to use again. 

-4- 



WASHINGTON' BUTCHER'S SONS. 



One pint of milk, three eggs, one cup of sugar, 
two tablespoonfuls of Olive Butter. Beat the eggs until 
very light; add sugar, and pour over them the 
milk boiling hot; let stand until cool. When cool, 
add half a cup of yeast, or half a compressed yeast 
cake dissolved in lukewarm water; add the Olive 
Butter and one pint of flour ; beat well ; cover, 
and put in a warm place (72° Fahr.) until morning. 
In the morning add sufficient flour to make a dough ; 
knead them lightly, and put away again to rise. 
When light, roll out about half an inch thick, cut, 
and finish same as crullers. 

CUI» CAKK. 

One and a half-cups of sugar, one cup of water, 
scant half cup of Olive Butter, three cups of flour, 
four eggs, one teaspoonful of vanilla, and one of 
baking-powder. Beat the sugar and Olive Butter 
together until light, then add yolks of eggs, and beat 
again ; add water and flour, and mix thoroughly. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth ; stir 
them — the vanilla and baking-powder — in carefully. 
Pour into a greased cake pan, and bake in a moderate 
oven for three-quarters of an hour. 

UKtrlCAXK CAKE. 

One and a half cups of sugar, whites of four eggs, 
half a cup of water, quarter of a cup of Olive Butter, 

-5- 



J/OJ^V TO USE OLIVE BUTTER. 

two and a half cups of flour, one teaspoonful of bitter 
almond, and one large teaspoonful of baking-powder. 
Beat the Olive Butter and sugar together until veiy 
light; add water and half the flour; beat well; 
beat the whites to a very stiff froth, and add half of 
them to the mixture ; then the remainder of the flour ; 
then the remainder of the whites, flavoring, and 
baking-powder. Mix thoroughly, but carefully. Pour 
into a greased pan, and bake in a moderate oven for 
three-quarters of an hour. 

SOFT gi:p«gbrbr.kai>. 

Three cups of flour, half a cup of milk, one and a 
half cups of New Orleans molasses, quarter of a 
cup of Oiive Butter, two eggs, one teaspoonful of 
soda, one large tablespoonful of ginger. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs ; add to them the milk ; stir the soda 
into the molasses, and add to it the Olive Butter 
quite hot; now add these to the ^gg and milk; add 
flour, ginger, and the well-beaten whites. Pour into 
a square cake pan, and bake in a very moderate oven 
for one hour. 

AH kinds of cake may be made in the same man- 
ner, but recollect the amount of butter or lard you 
have been in the habit of using, and use one-third 
less of Olive Butter. 

PASTRY. 

One quart of sifted flour, one teaspoonful of salt, 
quarter of a teaspoonful of soda, three-quarters of a 

-6- 



WASHINGTON BUTCHER'S SONS. 

cup of very cold Olive Butter, three-quarters of a cup 
of ice-cold water ; add salt and soda to the flour. Mix 
the Olive Butter and water, and then add it to the flour. 
Mix quickly and lightly; roll it out on a baking- 
board ; fold first the sides, then the ends in, turn it 
around, and roll it from you ; fold and roll again. 
Do this four times, and put it on the ice until wanted. 
This crust is very sweet and rich; but if a very 
flaky crust is wanted, use half the quantity of Olive 
Butter, and the rest dairy butter or lard, which must 
be spread on every time you roll and fold it. 



SALADS. 

Take cold roast or boiled chicken, free it from all 
skin and fat, cut it into dice, and put it on the ice 
until wanted. Clean, scrape, and wash enough 
tender white celery to make two-thirds of a quart 
(if you have one quart of meat). Cut the celery with 
a sharp knife into pieces half an inch long, and stand 
it on the ice. Now make a mayonnaise dressing as 
follows : Set an earthen bowl in a basin of ice water; 
put into the bowl the yolks of three uncooked eggs ; 
beat them lightly with a fork, and then add one tea- 
spoonful of fine salt, one of sugar, one of ground 
mustard, and a dash of cayenne. Mix all well to- 
gether, stirring always the same way. After this is 
well mixed, add half a pint of cold Olive Butter, drop 

-7- 



HOW TO USE OLIVE BUTTER. 

by drop, stirring all the while. Then add one table- 
spoonful of vinegar, and the juice of one lemon. 
Stand on the ice until wanted. When wanted, dry 
the celery on a clean towel, mix it with the chicken, 
and then mix both with the dressing ; dish and garnish 
with the light celery tops, and serve immediately, or 
the celery loses its crispness. 

Make same as chicken salad. 

I^OBSXKR SAL,AD. 

Chop the meat of a boiled lobster, and put it on the 
ice; make a mayonnaise as for chicken salad; mix 
it with the lobster when wanted, garnish the dish 
with salad leaves, fill in the lobster, and serve. Cold, 
boiled, or baked fish chopped into small pieces make 
a very nice salad, served the same as lobster salad. 

POTATO SAI^AO. 

Pare and boil three medium-sized potatoes. While 
they are boiling make a French salad dressing as 
follows : Put into a bowl one teaspoonful of salt, 
one saltspoonful of black pepper, add six tablespoon- 
fuls of Olive Butter, and mix well. Now add three 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and beat for five minutes. 
As soon as the potatoes are done cut them in thin 
slices, chop one good-sized onion and a sprig of pars- 
ley, and mix with the potatoes ; now pour over the 
dressing, and mix very carefully while hot. Place on 



WASHINGTON BUTCHER'S SONS. 



a cold dish, and set on he ice for an hour or two; 
garnish with parsley and boiled beets. 

XOMAXO SAI^AO. 

Take six good-sized tomatoes, cut them into slices, 
and remove all the seeds. Add one tablespoonful of 
onion juice to the French dressing. Put the tomatoes 
in a salad bowl, and cover them with the dressing. 
Let them stand for about two hours, and the salad is 
ready. 

Where the flavor of oil is not liked, the following 
salad dressing may be used instead of mayonnaise : 
Put one cup of milk on to boil; moisten one large 
spoonful of corn-starch with a little cold milk and 
add it to the milk when boiling ; add the well-beaten 
yolks of two eggs, and stir all over the fire for two 
minutes. Take from the fire, and add the well-beaten 
whites of the two eggs, salt, pepper, two tablespoon- 
fuls of Olive Butter, and one of good fresh butter. 
Mix well; add juice of one lemon and two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar. 

HOUV TO KR.Y. 

Frying, though one of the most common of culi- 
nary operations, is one that is least commonly per- 
formed perfectly well. It often results in burning 
the outside whilst the inside is cold, or serving the 
article in a coating of grease. It is very iftiporiant that 
the Olive Butter should be actually boiling before the 
article is put in. We cannot insist too strongly on 

-9- 



HOW TO USE OLIVE BUTTER. 

this point. There should be enough to immerse the 
article to be fried. If too many things are put in the 
fiying-basket they will be badly fried, because the 
temperature of the oil will fall below the point nec- 
essary to fry properly. The most successful frying is 
when the temperature rises four or five degrees during 
the frying. 

The temperature of the Olive Butter should vary 
according to the nature of the things fried. To as- 
certain when it is of proper heat throw in a little bit 
of bread ; if it browns quickly, it is ready ; if it burns 
the bread, it is too hot. Fish, potatoes, croquettes, 
and rissoles require the oil quite hot (say about 385° 
Fahr.) ; doughnuts, crullers, and fritters, 300° to 320° 

Fahr. 

TO KRY POTATOES. 

Pare two large potatoes and cut them into quarters ; 
wash and dry them in a cloth. Put enough Olive 
Butter in a pan to cover the potatoes well. When 
the oil is hot enough to send o^ jets of smoke or brown 
the bread, put in the potatoes; let them boil until 
they are a deep golden color. Take them out with a 
skimmer ; let all the oil drop off; sprinkle them with 
fine salt, and serve on a hot dish. The Olive Butter 
may be used over and over again, if strained and 
not allowed to burn. 

SARATOGA POTATOES. 

Pare one large potato and cut it into very thin 
slices (a vegetable cutter is nice for this). Let them 



WASHINGTON BUTCHER'S SONS. 

soak in cold water one hour, then dry them on a towel. 
Have ready a pan of boiling Olive Butter. Throw 
the potatoes in ; stir them with a skimmer occasion- 
ally to secure an even cooking. Drain them on a 
wire sieve ; sprinkle with salt, and serve. Do not 
put too many in at a time, or the oil will fall too low 
for frying. 

Pare two large potatoes and cut them into dice. 
Put two tablespoonfuls of Olive Butter into a frying- 
pan, in which fry two sliced onions; put in the po- 
tatoes, and toss them now and then until they have a 
nice yellow color; add a tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, salt, and pepper. Shake the pan until all 
are well mixed; dish, and serve very hot. 

I»OXAXO CR.OQUKXXKS. 

Two cups of mashed potatoes, two eggs, one table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, salt, and a little cayenne. 
Beat the eggs until very light, and add them to the 
potatoes ; then add salt and cayenne, and put them 
in a frying-pan. Stir them over the fire until they 
leave the sides of the pan. Take from the fire and 
add the parsley. Form into croquettes; roll first in 
^ggj aiid then in bread crumbs, and fry in boiling 
Olive Butter. 

CORBf OYSXKK-S. 

One pint of grated com, add to it one teaspoonful 
of salt, a little black pepper, the yolks of two eggs, 



HOW TO USE OLIVE BUTTER. 

and two tablespoonfuls of flour. Beat the whites of 
the eggs to a froth, and stir them carefully in. Put 
enough OliA^e Butter in a frying-pan to well cover 
the bottom. Heat it thoroughly, and put in the mix- 
ture by spoonfuls ; as soon as they are brown on one 
side, turn them (with a knife) and brown on the other ; 
serve on a hot dish. These are very nice. 

COR-N KRIXXERS. 

One pint of grated corn, half a cup of milk, two 
eggs, salt, pepper, and one cup of flour. Add milk, 
salt, pepper, flour, and the yolks of the eggs to the 
corn, and beat well. Beat the whites to a froth and 
stir them carefully in ; heat a pan of Olive Butter 
until it begins to smoke ; drop the mixture in by 
spoonfuls. As soon as they are brown on one side, 
turn and brown the other. There must be oil enough 
to float the fritters. 

TOMAXOHS A I^A 1-R.OVHNCAI^H. 

Take six good tomatoes ; take off" the stalks, cut 
them open a little, and with a small spoon remove 
the seeds. Place them in a saucepan with two 
tablespoonfuls of Olive Butter, a little salt and pep- 
per. Now put one pint can of mushrooms, a sprig 
of parsley, and one tablespoonful of Olive Butter 
into another pan ; fiy them for five minutes, stirring 
constantly; now add one tablespoonful of flour ; mix 
and add one cup of good stock ; stir over the fire 
until it boils ; fill the tomatoes with this sauce, and 

-12- 



WASHINGTON BUTCHER'S SONS. 

if you have any sauce left pour it around the tomatoes ; 
dust them over with bread crumbs, and put them in 
a quick oven for fifteen minutes. Dish them up 
carefully, and serve. 

KHIKD TOMATOHS. 

Wash and cut six good tomatoes in half. Put six 
tablespoonfuls of Olive Butter in a frying-pan ; as 
soon as it is hot put the tomatoes in skin side down, 
dredge them with salt and pepper, and fry until 
tender; dish them carefully. Add one tablespoonful 
of flour to the pan, stir it over the fire until a nice 
brown; add one pint of milk, and stir continually 
until it boils ; add salt and pepper, and pour it over 
the tomatoes, and serve. They may be fried and 
served with salt and pepper only. 

EGG P»I.AI*JX. 

Pare and cut an egg plant into thin slices, rub each 
slice with salt, put them one on top the other, place 
a weight on top, and let them stand over night or for 
a few hours. Now dip them in beaten egg and then 
in bread crumbs, and fry them same as corn oysters. 

KRIED MUSH, HOMINY, EXC. 

Cut the mush in slices about half an inch thick ; 

dredge it thickly with flour, and fry same as .egg 

plant. 

VEAI^ CROQUEXXHS. 

One pint of cold chopped veal, half pint of milk, 
two large tablespoonfuls of flour and one of butter, 

-13- 



HO IV TO USE OLIVE BUTTER. 

one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a little nutmeg, 
one tablespoonful of onion juice ; salt and cayenne to 
taste. Put the milk on to boil ; rub the butter and 
flour together, and add it to the boiling milk ; stir 
and cook for a few minutes; add all the seasoning to 
the meat, then add it to the milk, and mix thoroughly ; 
turn out to cool. When cool, form into croquettes ; 
roll first in egg, and then in bread crumbs, and fry 
in boiling Olive Butter. There must be enough to 
cover them well. It can be strained and used over 
again. 

Proceed in same manner as for veal, substituting 
chicken for veal. Cold beef or fish may be used in 
the same way. 



FISH. 

" Small fish should swim twice, once in water and once in oil." 



FRIKD SHAD. 

Clean and wash well a nice shad, dry it with a 
towel, and dredge it with salt, pepper, and flour. Cover 
well the bottom of a frying-pan with Olive Butter; 
heat it boiling hot; then put in the fish flesh side 
down, fry it until a nice brown, then turn it and fry 
the skin side ; take it up with a cake-turner, and serve 
it on a hot dish. All kinds of large fish may be fried 
in the same manner. 

-14- 



WASHINGTON BUTCHER'S SONS. 



To clean them, make a slight opening at the gills, 
then draw them between the thumb and finger, 
beginning at the tail. This will press out all the 
insides; dip them first in beaten egg, and then in 
bread crumbs, and fry them in a pan of boiling Olive 
Butter. There must be enough oil to float them. 
These are delicious fried in Olive Butter, as they come 
out of the hot oil perfectly dry and free from grease. 
All small fish may be treated in the same manner. 

FRIHD OYSXHR-S. 

Drain nice large oysters free from all liquor, season 
them with salt and cayenne, beat an egg well, and 
add to it one tablespoonful of hot water, or two of 
the oyster liquor (hot) ; dip the oysters first in cracker 
crumbs, then in the egg, and then in bread crumbs. 
Put enough Olive Butter to float the oysters in a fry- 
ing-pan, and heat it thoroughly. Put six oysters in 
a frying-basket, if you have one, plunge it into the 
boiling oil, and fry until a nice brown. Drain them 
on soft brown paper, and serve on a hot dish. 



-15- 



HOW TO USE OLIVE BUTTER. 



PRESS NOTICES, 



NEW CULINARY ARTICLE, OLIVE BUTTER. 

This article is a pure vegetable oil, absolutely free 
from animal fats of any kind, and is used as a substitute 
for butter and lard for culinary purposes, the relative 
cheapness of the article and its freedom from all de- 
leterious qualities commending it to the favorable con- 
sideration of consumers. 

Olive Butter is an article thnt has made a progress 
into demand for consumption, probably, without a pre- 
cedent in anytliing of a similar nature. The firm 
introducing it has a reputation second to none in the 
country for honorable methods in business, and in their 
efforts to present an article of the highest order of merit 
have far exceeded their sanguine expectations in the 
demand which their enterprising labors have created. 
Within the period of about two months, since the article 
was placed in small packages in cases, about seven 
hundred of the most prominent wholesale houses of 
Eastern cities have given orders for these goods, and 
over five hundred of these have given successive orders. 
— Cincinnati Price Current, Cincinnati, Ohio, October 
S, 1882. 

THE NEW OLIVE BUTTER 

is excellent for frying purposes. There's something in 
a name, but, probably, nothing of the " olive" in the 
butter, except its color ; but, besides being assured by 
chemists that this is a perfectly pure vegetable oil, all 
housekeepers who have tried it will agree that it is ex- 
tremely economical and makes a very delicate frying 
material. Here was fornierly the situation in the kitchen 

-16- 



WASHINGTON BUTCHER'S SONS. 



over the frying-pan : You could take lard, which was 
not cheap and "used up" very fast; you had butter, 
which, besides being expensive, required a skilful cook 
to keep it from burning; or you could use salad oil, 
which, though costing alarmingly to begin with, required 
so little to do the work that the cooking school would 
tell you it was like the widow's cruse — it did not seem 
to lose perceptibly ; after frying fifty oysters the bottle 
was neirly as full as before. But very few American 
housekeepers could be brought, by its first expensive- 
ness. to try using sweet oil, which is the frying material 
of all South Europe. We leave out of the list " clari- 
fied fat," or dripping, because there is seldom enough 
of this to do the entire cooking with, even wuh a con- 
scientious person in the kitchen who understands how 
to save and use it all, as should always be insisted on. 
The two best known vegetable oils that this country 
produces are cotton-seed oil and peanut oil, both of 
wliich are understood to have been for years exported 
to Europe, coming back to us in wicker-covered flasks 
as Italian olive oil. Real olive oil from California is too 
small a product, as yet, to count much in the home 
market. The manufacturers of the new Olive Butter — 
which is not butter at all, but a clear, greenish oil — have 
agreed to give us a home product, warranted pure, 
without the ocean voyage; though, to conciliate our 
ridiculous American prejudices, do not label it cotton- 
seed or peanut oil, the former of which it probably is. 
Anybody who tries it will agree that it cooks as well as 
salad oil ; and as all vegetable oils heat at a lower tem- 
perature than the solid animal fats, it does not burn 
away or waste as rapidly as lard. It comes in conveni- 
ent cans, with a mouth-piece, like the kerosene oil cans, 
so that you can pour off just the desired quantity for 
use, and, after cooking, this can be carefully strained 
and returned to the can, except it has been used for fish, 
wlien it must be put into a separate bottle and kept 
apart for this use. It has a slightly pungent smell when 
cookmg, which is said to be entirely removed by the 
use of a pinch of salt, but which is no worse than other 
frying through the house. The Qgg plants, oysters, 

-17- 



HOW TO USE OLIVE BUTTER. 



clam- or corn-fritters that are turned out of Olive Butter 
by a good cook have not a particle of greasiness about 
them, nor any taste whatever of the medium in which 
they are fried. — Public Ledger, Philadelphia, October 
7, 1882. 

OLIVE BUTTER. 

If the product now being manufactured and sold by 
Washington Butcher's Sons under the name of Olive 
Butter is but one-half as excellent and useful for culinary 
purposes as its friends claim, it is beyond a doubt des- 
tined to supersede entirely both lard and butter for 
kitchen use. 

The grossness of the former and the expense of the 
latter have always been and always will be seriously 
objectionable ; and any pure and tasteless product that 
will accomplish the same or better results is certain to 
find millions of appreciative consumers. 

Olive Butter is therefore worth at least a trial, espe- 
cially when a house having the repute of Washington 
Butcher's Sons places it fearlessly upon the market, and 
guarantees its usefulness, purity, and superiority. — The 
Press, Philadelphia, August 2, 1882, 

OLIVE BUTTER. 

This commodity, just introduced by Washington 
Butcher's Sons, of this city, is worthy the attention of 
all seekers of economy in the household, and who ap- 
preciate healthful and unadulterated food. 

It is claimed by the manufacturers to require but half 
the quantity for the same purposes as lard and butter 
are used in cooking, and, with a cheaper price, it cannot 
fail to meet a long-needed want. 

It is an absolutely pure vegetable oil, prepared with 
great care, the basis being refined cotton-seed oil, which 
is perfectly wholesome, and is destined to become very 
popular. It is now used in nearly all of the large first- 
class hotels and restaurants, and it is said by chemists to 
be the only material in which food for dyspeptics can be 
properly prepared. — The Inquirer, Philadelphia, August 
S. 1882. 

-18- 



WASHINGTON BUTCHER'S SONS. 



OLIVE BUTTER. 

This new rival of lard and butter for culinary purposes 
is a product of cotton-seed oil, made from selected seed, 
pressed with ice, and treated and prepared exclusively 
by Washington Butcher's Sons, of Philadelphia, under 
letters patent. Olive Butter is said to be a healthful 
and very nutritious product, free from all adulterations, 
sweet and savory. For cooking purposes it is by some 
regarded as more satisfactory than either butter or lard. 
It is not so easily absorbed, and food cooked in it is free 
from the greasy taste so obnoxious to epicures. An 
enthusiastic writer says : " The daintiest tidbits may be 
dressed in Olive Butter without fear of detracting from 
their flavor, and rather with a certainty of improving it. 
A pound of Olive Butter will go twice as far as a pound 
of lard or butter. — Public Record, Philadelphia, August 
6, 1882. 

OLIVE BUTTER. 

Even the Boston bakers use cotton-seed oil in their 
cooking; doughnuts fried in it are said to be cooked in 
"cotton butter." Frenchmen have for a long time re- 
sold the oil to us both as pure olive oil and as a packing 
for sardines. An Atlanta authority defies any one to 
tell the difference between a steak fried in lard and one 
fried in cotton-seed oil. — Evening Telegraph, Phila- 
delphia, August 22, 1882. 

OLIVE BUTTER. 

A new article for cooking purposes is advertised under 
the name of "Olive Butter." It is claimed to be a 
pure vegetable oil, superior to either butter or lard for 
use in cooking. The proprietors, Washington Butcher's 
Sons, of Philadelphia, are extensive dealers in lard, and 
a well-known firm. Their guarantee is therefore to be 
accepted. The price is alaout one-half that of lard. 
Evidently the people cannot do better than to give it a 
trial. — Buffalo {N. Y.) Express, August 30, 1882. 



-19- 



OLIVE* BUTTER 



<~^=7 MEANS 

Health, Economy, and Cleanliness. 



ABSOLUTE FREEDOM FROM ALL ADULTERATIONS 
OF ANY KIND. 



"ZJYG present Olive Butter to the public with the 
^-*-' conviction that it will permanently take the 
place of lard and butter for culinary purposes. It 
needs but a single trial to demonstrate its great value 
and merits; and we guarantee for it the following 
qualities, viz. : 

It is a pure vegetable product, free from adultera- 
tions, and is much more nuiriiiotis than lard or 
butter. It remains perfectly sweet in every climate 
and is unaffected by age. 

It is muck cheaper than lard or butter, and re- 
quires but half the quantity to attain the same 
results in cooking. Articles of food cooked with 
it retain their natural flavor; no greasy taste is im- 
parted, the oil not being so readily absorbed as 
ordinary lard or butter, because it is a vegetable 
product. 

The fact that we are, and have been for many 

years, manufacturers and refiners of lard, — our trade 

amounting to millions of pounds annually, — and now 

offer to the public this vegetable oil of our own 

manufacture for culinary purposes, in lieu of lard or 

butter, is of itself a sufficient guarantee. 

-20- 



Cotton-seed oil for a long time has been used for 
cooking purposes, and, after considerable effort and 
experiment, we have succeeded in perfecting Olive 
Butter, the basis of which is the very choicest re- 
fined cotton-seed oil, prepared under our own super- 
vision, and warranted pure in every respect. 

It is recommended by physicians as being more 
healthful than lard, and luiiversally praised by dys- 
peptics for its great value. 

Our Trade-Mark is secured by letters patent, regis- 
tered at the Patent Office in Washington, D. C. 



WASHINGTON + BUTCHER'S * SONS, 

Sole Manufacturers, 
^-^=^PHILADELPH I A.*=^-J 



Directions. — Use in the same manner for cook- 
ing as you would lard or butter, only use ^a(f the 
quantity for the same purposes. 

For frying, have the Olive Butter boiling hot 
before using, and if any oily flavor is noticed, when 
first heated, a pinch of salt will neutralize it. 

To pour oil from can, hold the mouth-piece upper- 
most, to admit air and permit free flow. 



Put up in 60 pound cases of 3, 5, and 10 pound 
cans, 5 and 10 gallon cans, barrels, and half barrels. 



FOR SALE BY ALL GROCERS. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



Wi 






014 637 649 6 



h. 



LARD REFINERS, 

Manufacturers of Pure Lard Oils, and 
curers of the celebrated 

Breakfast Bacon, Beef, Tongues, Sides, 
Shoulders, Roulettes, etc. 



Particular attention given orders for ex- 
port. 

Hams packed, for all elinnates, either can- 
vased or uncanvased. 

Lard packed in tierces, kegs, tubs, pails, 
tin cans, etc. 

Ship stores n specialty. 



WASHINGTON BUTCHER'S SONS, 

Nos. 14.6 and 14.8 North Fjvnt Street^ 



PHILADELPHIA, U.S.A. 



LIBRARV OF CONGRESS 



I 014 637 649 6# 



