Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



\* 



■1. » 



s. 




\l 



FOOD AND HOME COOKEEY 



NEW EDITION 



COMPBISma TOE 



COOKERY SCHEME OF THE LEEDS SCHOOL BOARD 



A- 



•> 



CONSISTIN<} OF A 



COUBSB OF LESSONS WITH DIEECTIONS FOB THEIB PBACTICAL 

I CARBYING OUT IN ACCOBDANCE WITH THE NEW CODE OF 

} 

i ; BEGULATIONS OF THE BDUOATJOW DEPARTMENT 1882 



f 



BT 

CATHERINE M. BUCKTON 

MBMBKB OF THE LBED8 SCHOOL BOABO : AllTHOIt 01 'HZAI.TH IV TBI HOCSB' 

AND 'TOWK AIO) WlitDOW OABDBUNO' 



LONDON 
LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO. 

1883 y ,. 



All right* re«er«ed 




opinions of the Press. 



'a gtTcn in a clear 



yy et nuUu np the tin. ths me at 
dampni, and ttie nude of Hlsotliis (be 
t«it and chMpect oooUng utsntfi. 



H adirloa bow to 



Iba comtoit of tbelt mm hoaiea.' 

' Wbat wBimnted vu a pl^n and 
pncCical manual, written la a n;Ie 
auOldentlT efmple ta be eaaDr nuder- 
naadl9ac)ilIdiKaTenrBlntdIlgeuc& 
and deallDK wltb bmnelj oookrar m 
ttae kind vhleb thewtfe of a wivkiiis- 
man inMit Miiy be mpp eaea to prae- 
Um. TStavantUnBocETfni'aliODk 
fully npptliB, and it li In addltlcin a 
bandbficAvblcb teaobenof oookery to 
tba cblldnn ol the workbwobHMi will 
find •Immt invBlnable. we weloonH 
tbe appcaraiMe irf Kn, Bccktok's 



Banmtly beranao on 

mon bnlti at tbsnife of Ou vocDns- 
maoiian nttcr Inumnoa of bnir to 
make the beat oftbe food wbkb aba 
pgrobaaet wltb tbs often enongh bat^ 



tODda to ba sarefnl, and aoooidinB to 
ber kBowledge ibe ii careTnl, bot u a 
matter ofbct >be verrprobaUy vait«a 
*e mneb food in a month u wonld, It 
pmpailT aUlieed, feed berhoDaebolII lor 
aweek. lIn.BlKST0jr8 little toIdsk 
ie caknlatad to do a gnat amoont 
of good not only to tba otaUdnn, to> 
whoae bmeSt H w» primarUywilttMi, 
and to teaoboi ot cooken to wbin tl 
will ba an InnliiablB handbook, but to 



„ lauHBenerallT. I 

ODlr a book of dlnoUoni and (< leoliaB, 
bot alio ot prlndplei oliorl; Hated 






ooDkery cUaaea are not tg 

BucEtoN'a work miibt bt 

ola».|)ook.fOr no gitl of nrarva Inlalli- 
genoe cotild read it oarefnilr wttbont 
feanlng a great deal itblob it ii of im- 
pDtUjice ihe ehoald know.' 

HottoobjUI Gdibduii. 



PEEFACE 

TO THB 

COOKERY SCHEME FOR DAY SCHOOLS. 



Framed in accordance vjith the New Code of Regula^ionSf 1^2, as set 

forth in the following Clavse, 

* (IX.) In schools in -which the Inspector reports that special and appro- 
priate provision is made for the practical teaching of cookery, a grant of 
4s. is made on account of any girl over twelve years of age, who has attended 
no less than forty hours during the school year at the cookery class, and is 
presented for examination in the elementary subjects in any standard.' 

N.B. — The Education Department only requires that a girl should have 
attained the age of twelve before the conclusion of the course. 



It is now four years since the course of Cookery Instruction in 
this book was prepared by me, on behalf of my colleagues and 
myself, with a hope of being able to introduce cookery into our 
Board Schools. The attempt was first started by fitting up a 
class-room in only six of our girls' schools. The instruction 
was given by the Board Instructor by Demonstration Lessons 
to classes of from forty to fifty, consisting of girls who attended 
these schools and scholars sent from Board Schools in the 
neighbourhood. Experience having proved that the plan of 
admitting girls from other schools operated against the 
thoroughness of the instruction^ led to loss of school time and 
disorganisation, the present Board adopted the principle only 
to toach girls in their own schools, and have gradually in- 
creased the centres from six to twenty. The new schools icl 
process of building are also to have clasa-YOQTw^^^Vfc^^s'^^'^^ 
a cookery cupboard and a small coUA^^d T«ii%<& ^^s:^»\KE«k,^'i^^'?^^^^'» 
constructed according to my direc^oxia, "mV^^ es^x:^ ^svsn^so. 



and an ' Eoonomiaer '—an iiiTentioii of Mr. T. Pridgen Teale, 
M.A,, M.KC.3., of Leeds — to abate smoke and waste of coal. 
This cottage range is not to supersede the gas-store, which is 
indispensable and acts admJrahly, but to serve as a model and 
enable the teacher to give practical instruction in cleaning 
flues. As the ' Bconomiser ' only costs about 3s., being a sheet 




of iron with hooks, saves one-tlurd of the coal usually oon> 
fiumed does away with the necessity of removing the ashes 
more than once or twice a week and keeps the hearth tidy 
throughout the day I calculate the expense will be very httlo 
more than the ordinary sitting-room grate used m our class- 
rooms.' 

' A tuW descriptioD of the ' EcoDomiier ' ifl given ty TSi. Teale Id his 
^oot, £iwiu>mr of Coal in Hovm Firtt. Foblishen: Charles Ooodall, 

-2*e*/ J.&A. Chnrrhill, LoodOB. 



PREFACE. V 

i 

At the beginning of this year, when a second Instructor 
was appointed to the last ten schools, I offered to superintend 
the year's course, my object being to see that the instruction 
was thorough, and to arrange a method of testing the pro- 
ficiency of the girls who were to earn the grant. By attending 
every lesson, taking notes, and making experiments, I gained 
the practical experience necessary to prepare the scheme and 
draw up * Birections ' for the conduct of each lesson. I found 
that by following these * Directions' a teacher could give a prac- 
tice lesson to a class of ten. I ^erefore selected twenty girls 
in each school to earn the grant, called the * Special Class,' ten 
to be t/aught in the morning and ten in the afternoon. Each 
girl was to have an equal share of practice, be able to prepare 
small dishes of food entirely herself, and acquire the habit of 
measuring her own ingredients generally by utensils instead of 
scales. When able to write, this class, as a rule, answers the 
questions as a composition lesson in school. The course con- 
sists of fifteen lessons, twelve to be given by demonstration 
followed by practice, and the remaining three (two on cleaning, 
and the fifteenth, the last of the course) by practice only. 
Every girl who attends the whole course will have twelve 
Demonstration and fourteen Practice lessons, and forty hours' 
instruction; the time occupied being forty weeks — a school 
year. A Demonstration lesson is given throughout the ten 
centres in one week, as the teacher gives two lessons in one day, 
each in a different school. A Practice lesson requires a fortnight, 
as the teacher has two classes, and remains the whole day in 
each school, taking ten girls in the morning and ten in the 
afternoon. It will be seen by the tabulation of the scheme on 
page vii, that besides this * Special Class ' prepared to earn t?^e 
grant, there is an extra class, who attend the Demonstration 
lessons only. To this class the head mistress can send as many 
as the room will accommodate. By confining the instruction 
to girls in their own schools great advantages are derived, as 
arrangements can thus be made that enable the whole class to 
see the completion of foods that require a long time to prepare, 
such as bread, beef-tea, suet pudding, &c. T!aa ^^sa^^'^^s^^JaKs^ 
natnrallj takes a great interest m ^ik"e> coc^^t3 V^sssosr-^^^s^ 



4 I 



Vlll 



LEEDS SCHOOL BOABD SCHEME OF COOSJBBT. 



Fbriod occu- 
pied by 
each Le^n 

1 Week \ 

2 Weeks 

1 Week \ 

2 Weeks f 

1 Week 

2 Weeks 

1 Week 

2 Weeks 



1 Week ^ 

2 Weeks 



1 Week ^ 

2 Weeks 



1 Week 

2 Weeks 



2 Weeks 
Total 40 



VIII. 

IX. 
X. 

XI. 

XII. 

XIII. 

XIV. 
XV. 



I 



Demonstration — Make a suet dumpling, clean and 

cook a fish, &c. 
Practice — Each girl to make a suet dumpling, 

&c. 
Demonstration — ^Make a jam turnover, clarify 

dripping, &c. 
Practice — ^Each girl to measure her ingredients, 

and make a jam turnover. 
Demonstration — ^Make Cornish pasties and rice 

mould, &c. 
Practice — Each girl to make a Cornish pasty. 
Demonstration — Fry fish and bread, make a baked 

rice pudding, &c. 
Practice— ^Each girl to fry a piece of bread and 

make a small rice pudding. 
Demonstration — Invalid cooking : beef-tea, gruel, &c. 
Practice — Each girl to prepare one ounce of beef 

for beef-tea, and make half a pint of gruel. 
DcTnonstrafion — Boiled custard, mould of rice, cup 

of cocoa, &c. 
Practice — Each girl to make a cup of custard, cup 

of cocoa, slice of dry toast. 
Demonstration — Vegetable soup, roly-poly, &c. 
Practice — All assist in making vegetable soup; 

each girl to make a roly-poly. 
Practice— IS&ch. girl to make a cup of porridge, cup 

of arrowroot, &c. 
Information about the best kind of pans is given 

in pages 2, 3, and 80, not in Lesson XV. 



Each girl during the above course makes the folio-wing 17 dishes entirely 
herself: — ^A bread cake, or small cottage loaf, teacake, jam turnover, a 
Cornish pasty, a small baked rice pudding, half a pint of milk gruel, a 
cup of boiled custard, baked roly-poly, dry toast, cup of arrowroot, cup of 
cocoa, cup of porridge, enp-mould of rice, boil an egg, make an egg sand- 
wich, beef-tea, grill a chop, fry a piece of bread or fish. The following 
dishes are prepared jointly: — ^Vegetable soup, Yorkshire pudding, suet 
dumpling with currants, roast beef, roast pork, potatoes, greens. 



WBBCTIONS. IX 



DIRECTIONS FOR THE PRACTICAL CARRYING 

OUT OF THE SCHEME. 

FOR DAY SCHOOLS. 

Thb following ' Directions ' only furnish an outline of the arrangements 
and methods to be adopted to secure that each girl who attends the ' Special 
Glass * to earn the grant shall have an equal share of practice, and be able 
to complete the preparation of small dishes entirely herself whenever 
possible. The Information to accompany these • Directions * is given in 
the fifteen lessons selected for the course ; the number of each lesson, and 
the first page, are affixed to the ' Directions.* It will be found that every 
lesson inculcates some principle relating to the art of cookery, also informa- 
tion about the nature of the foods to be prepared. The questions are a 
syllabus of the lessons. The teacher is requested to read them aloud at the 
close of the lesson, to satisfy herself that she has omitted no information 
that will enable her pupils to answer them. These questions are, as a rule, 
answered as a written composition school lesson. When the class has 
assembled, the register for the ' Special Class * is to be called over. The 
girls are to be sent by their teachers, with clean hands and nails ; the lesson 
. to be written upon a large slate or blackboard. If the * Diirections * have 
been faithfully carried out, each girl in the ' Special Class ' who has at- 
tended the whole course will have made the following 17 small dishes 
entirely herself: — A cottage loaf or bread cake, teacake, jam turnover, 
baked rice pudding, Cornish pasty, baked roly-poly, a cup of beef-tea, arrow- 
root, milk gruel, porridge, boiled custard, cocoa, cup-mould of rice, dry 
toast, egg sandwich, boiled or poached egg^ fried a piece of bread or fish, 
grilled a chop. The following will have been prepared jointly : — Roast 
beef, Yorkshire pudding, potatoes, greens, currant suet dumpling, and 
vegetable soup without meat. 

FiBST Lesson.— DEMONSTRATION. 

Distribute questions. Information in Lesson I. 

Cupboard to be opened before the gilrls, and contents shown. 

I^nk syphon-trap to be cleaned as follows : — ^First place a bucket under 
the trap, then unfasten the screw and let the tap run until the water 
that runs out of the trap is quite clean. In the frontispiece the trap and 
screw are clearly shown. 

Stove to be drawn out and explained. 

Directions how to lay a fire, illustrated by laying a fire badly in a fire- 
basket, which will not burn, and then show how one properly lighted burns 
directly. Draw attention to the cottage range and ' Economiser.* 

Questions for Mrst Lesaou. 

1.— Howdojou think a kitchen-maid ot coot eo\2kaL ^«e» «» ''^Jsis^ ^^.^ 
nigbt keep herself seat and respectalale aU day Vii >:>ci«> Toxd&X. ol V«t ^^"^ 



Z DIRECTIONS. 

2.— How would you lay a fire so that it would burn np quickly when 
yon wanted to light it ? 

3. — Before laying a fire what would yon do with the cinders and ashes 
left in the grate ? Would ashes bum if you were to throw them on the 
fire? 

4. — Why do the flames made by the burning coals that are poked under 
the oven fly up the side and over the top, and up into the kitchen chimney, 
directly the little door called a damper is pulled out ; and why do the fiames 
and the heat in the hot coals die out when the damper is shut or quite 
pushed in ? 

5. — How would you take out the ashes and cinders that are pushed 
under the oven from the fire, and how would you clean out the soot that 
collects in the side, the top of the oven, and the small chimney through 
which the fiames pass into the brick kitchen chimney? Why must the 
oven shelf which takes out be well scrubbed with sand like a saucepan ? 

Sbcokd Lbsson.— PEACTICE. 

Distribute questions. Information in Lesson II., page 14. 

Morning "Practice. — Each girl to lay a fire, and be shown how to clean 
kitchen and oven fines, practically if the centre has a range, but by a 
coloured diagram of one if it has not. The gas burners of the stove ex- 
plained, and how to turn them off and on. 

Clean Wooden and China Utensils, 

The three tables to be placed in line (picture, page zi). Ten girls to 
stand, five on the right and five on the left of cook. Five girls to the 
right wash china and glass, and five to the left wooden utensils. When 
their utensils are cleaned, the girls must exchange places. Paste-boards 
and rolling-pins will serve the first set, table- tops the other. The end of 
the table where the glass and china are cleaned must be covered with 
brown paper. 

Afternoon Practice. — The arrangements of the morning to be repeated. 

Questions for Second Lesson. 

1. — How would you clean milk jugs, basins, or any utensils in which 
milk has been kept? 

2.— How would you wash dinner plates and dishes that have no gold 
upon them, so that they should have a bright polish ? 

3. — ^How would you wash tea-things which have no gold, and glass ? 

4. — ^What is the cheapest and sweetest way of cleaning table-tops, 
paste-boards, rolling-pins, and all wooden utensils ? Why ought a cook 
never to use soap in cleaning these utensils ? 

Third Lbsson.— PEACTICR 
' Clean Iron, Tin, Brass, and Metal Utensils. 

Distribute questions. Information in Lesson III., page 17* 

Morning Practice. — Three tables in line, covered with brown paper ; 

ntensiJs when cleaned to be placed in centre of table, five girls stancuBg on 

either aide. The J^nife-board at one end, each. gii\ to "v^V wed c^eui ^ 



knife and handle. No irhiting b 
Bpooo aad tespot. The tape of at 
in cleaning this metal. 

Afttfoaon ProrttM.— The monuDg anangemeDU to be repeated. 

Queeiiont/oT Third Letton. 
1 — All the follawing cooking oteneiU are cleaaed in the same ir&y : — 
Inm and tin sancepiina gridirons dripping pane, cake tioi. oven ehelres, 




^ coUndeTB, ba milking-p 

Describe hoir yon wonld dean them. 

2.— Why most the ontaide as well as Ibe ioeide ol 
cleaned? 

S.^How ought a sink to be cleaned ? Where must an; bits of food be 
put? Why ia it Tery unhealthy to keep a swili-tub under a aiak, or iaaa-^ 
liTJDg-rooin ? _^ 

4. — How wonid jon make knives and foilta i^oJiWi c\e».-n., saA. T'''^*^'*"^^-^ 
pre IhoDj s bright poliah, and preYent rtie \iB,nd\cs ^■'™^ "*^^i!^^^ ^ 
When JOB know how to clean and polish Imwea TW* -wiii. ««sw 



saucepan lids, and 6 

sancepan always ba 



XU DIBECTIONS. 

polish brass and copper pans and kettles, as they are cleaned with the same 
materials. 

Fourth Lesson.— DEMONSTRATION. 

Bread MaJcing, ^c. 

Distribute questions and receipts. Information in Lesson IV., page 21. 

Two tables in line. Make a small quantity of dough, and sell it at the 
end of lesson, as there will not be time to bake it. Explain the nature of 
German and brewer's yeast. How to measure with and without scales, &c. 

Questions and Receipts for Third Lesson, 

1. — How would you know when the dough had risen enough before 
putting it into the oven to bake ? Why ought bread to be made in a clean 
room filled with good air ? 

2. Every kind of food that grows in the ground is called a " vegetable." 
Is flour a *• vegetable "? . 

3.— There are two kinds of flour. One kind is very white, the other is 
not so white, and is called " seconds." In which kind of flour do we find 
the most of the following things : — Albumen, that makes our flesh, muscles, 
and nerves ; starch, that makes our fat ; lime, phosphorus, and gelatine, 
which are the only three things which make our bones grow strong and 
hard? 

4. — How can you kill the yeast plant ? 

Cottage Loaves (quantities for each girl). — Six ounces of flour or six 
tablespoonfols, quarter of an ounce or half a teaspuonful of German yeast, 
a pinch of salt, about two teaspoonfols of eitner water or milk, just luke- 
warm ; let the' dough rise for one hour or more, and bake about half an 
hour. 

Practice for Fo^trth Lesson. 

Morning Practice, — The three tables to be formed in line, five girls on 
the right, and five on the left of the cook, with a china bowl for each 
(picture, page »). A bowl of flour is to be placed in centre of each group, 
yeast, salt, a jug of water, teaspoons, and tablespoons; each girl is to 
measure her own ingredients and make them into dough ; the ten portions 
of dough are to be put into a large bowl. The ten girls to return to school 
at 11.15 A.M., and the other ten to take their places to make dough; by 
this means, it will have time to rise by the afternoon. The quantities to 
be used by each girl are given in the receipt. 

Afternoon Practice, — Three tables in line ; five girls on the right of the 
cook and five on the left, opposite their paste-boards. Three paste-boards 
will serve for five girls ; the end girl has one, and two will serve four girls 
if they stand opposite each other (picture, page xiii). Ten girls examine the 
dough to see how it has risen, then the dough they prepared is weighed 
(six ounces to each), and made into small cottage loaves, and put into the 
oven. At 3.15 p.m. they return to school, and the other ten take their 
places, who examine their bowl of dough to see that it has risen properly, 
and then make the six ounces weighed out to them into a cottage loaf, and 
put it into the oven. If the oven is the right heat, 400°, the loaves will 
be baked in rather less than half an hour. 



Fifth Lessmf.— DEMONSTRATION. 
TeaCakm. Bock-Bunt. 

Distribute questians and rscetpts. iDform&tion in Lesson V. page 26. 

Qutatiotit ani Bteeipttfor Fiflh Lesson. 
1, — How ircnld you find out vhen an oven itu tlie nglit heat for baUn j; 
bread if ;au had do tbennometar ? 




2.— Why will a loaf of bread be ead or heavy if it ia first put on tbs 
top shelf ia an oven, instead of being first put for about ten minutes on the 
bottom shelf ? 

3. — How would yon make a teacake, with or without, co.ttkc*,*'^ 
CttrraiU Bvru, Seed Sans, or Teocofce*.— "two .g(ia.iiaA<il*»i*t,\(^"^' 
gptonfttl of salt, two ounara of drippiDg, cue ffmt,; \.iiS-oini»& 
jaart; balf-pint of milk (lakewannl ; BmaVl tBa.H50OTiSv:i™- caia.-«»i 



::iV DIRECTIONS. 

three ounces of currants; three ounces of sugar. The cumftts should be 
very c&refullj washed and dried. 

Rook-Buns, — ^Melt in a basin three ounces of batter or dripping (do not 
make it too hot), stir in one pound of flour, quarter-pound of sugar (three 
ounces of currants or an ounce of seeds, which you like best), one ounce of 
candied peel. Whisk two eggs to a froth, mix half a gill of milk with the 
eggs, then work the whole together and bake in a moderate oven. 

Teaeake (quantities for one). — Four tablespoonfuls of flour, one table- 
spoonful of milk, one teaspoonful of sugar and one of dripping, a quarter 
of a teaspoonfUl of yeast, and a very small pinch of salt. To rise one 
hour, and bake about twenty minutes. 

Practice for Fifth Lesson, 

Morning Practice. — Three tables in line. Five girls on the right of the 
cook and five on the left, opposite their paste-boards, as for bread making. 
Each group to be furnished with a basin of flour, sugar, jug of milk, salt, 
and some dripping, with a tablespoon and teaspoon to measure their own 
ingredients ; when the teaeake dough is ready it is to be put into one 
bowl to rise. The ten girls return to school at 11.15 a.h., when the 
second ten are to take their places. The quantities for each girl are as 
follow : four tablespoonfuls of flour, one tablespoonful of milk, one tea- 
spoonfiil of sugar and one of dripping, a quarter of a teaspoonful of yeast, 
and a very small pinch of salt. 

Afternoon Practice, — At 2..30 p.m. ten girls arrive, and bake their tea- 
cakes as at the bread lesson, returning to school at 3.15 p.m., when the 
second ten, ^ho did not see their loaves baked at the previous lesson, are to 
take their places. The teacakes are not to be baked in tins. 

Sixth Lesson.— DEMONSTKATION. 
Boiling and Grilling, ^c. 

Distribute questions and receipts. Information in Lesson VI. page 30. 

Soil and poach an egg. Make egg sandwiches. Grill a chop or steak. 
Boil two potatoes. A tray to be set out with chop and every requisite, in 
a tempting manner, as for an invalid. 

Questions and Receij^tsfor Sixth Lesson. 

1. — How would you cook a fresh egg, or poach one, so that the white part 
(called albumen) should be soft and well done, if you had no clock to tell 
you how long the egg had remained in the water ? 

2. — How would you cook a mutton chop or beefsteak on the gridiron so 
that all the gravy and juices should be kept in, and the meat be tender and 
tempting for a delicate stomach ? 

3. — How would you boil a potato or any vegetable ? 

To Cook an Egg without boiling it. — Let a pan of water thoroughly 
boil. As the pan is lifted from the fire have an egg ready in the hand 
to put in, and instantly cover the pan to keep in the steam, place it on 
the warm fender, and let it remain for four or five minutes, when the egg 
will be done. A poached egg is done in exactly the same way, but takes 
less time. 

f^ 6^'U a Mutton Chop or Beefsteak. — Place the chop on a clean warm 
iroa with a knife and spoon, so that no holes axe made m V\i« ^«;^\.q 



^ DIRECTIONS. XV 

let out the giravy V the gridiron must first be warmed or the chop will stick 
to the bars ; tbjSf^ifiRB ought to be very bright and red, and the chop turned 
every two minutes.' A large chop takes twelve minutes, and a thin one 
about ten. A beefsteak is cooked in the same way. 

To make Egg Sandwiches. — ^Boil an egg until it is quite hard, chop fine, 
add a little pepper and salt to taste ; cUt two slices of bread and buttor, put 
the chopped egg on one slice and cover over with the other, then cut the 
slices into convenient sizes. 

Practice for Sixth Lesson, 

Morning Practice, — Three tables in line. The five girls on either side 
of the cook to be employed as follows : — two girls washing potatoes at one 
bowl ; one girl poaching and another boiling an egg. These two eggs are 
afterwards to be boiled hard for the sandwiches. Two girls cutting bread- 
and-butter for sandwiches ; two chopping the egg on a paste-board. A 
gridiron is to be placed on the table with an uncooked chop. The cook is 
to teach each girl how to turn it with a knife and spoon. When put on the 
stove, one girl at a time to come and turn it. The chop is to be turned every 
minute, and cooked in twenty minutes, which gives every girl a chance of 
turning it. 

Afternoon Practice, — Morning arrangements repeated. 

Seventh Lesson.— DEMONSTRATION. 
Boastinfff ^c. 

Distribute questions and receipts. Information in Lesson YII., pago 
36. 

Boast a piece of flank of beef, which has a good deal of gristle. Explain 
the time a fleshy piece takes to roast, and how much longer time is required 
for young or gristly meat. Yorkshire pudding under the meat, and to be 
turned by placing one tin over the other. 

Questions and Receipts for Seventh Lesson, 

1 . — Why ought all meat to be dipped into hot water and wiped dry before 
it is either roasted or boiled ? Why is it both dirty and dangerous to wrap 
up food in a newspaper ? 

2. — How would you roast meat so that all its juices and flavouring 
jnatter, called osmazome, should be kept in, and not run out into the drip- 
ping-pan? 

3. — A Yorkshire pudding is made of flour, eggs, and milk. Tell me 
which of these are animal and which are vegetable fbods. 

4. — A quarter of an hour is allowed for every pound in cooking a joint 
of meat. If a joint weighed one pound, four ounces, how much time would 
it require? Young meat, such as lamb, veal, or a gristly joint, such as a ' 
flank or shoulder, require much longer. How much time would you allow 
lor boiling or roasting such a joint that weighed one pound, twelve ounces? 

N.B. — Whenever you have been able to practise any of the cooking taught 
at the lesson, give me a flsiithfid account of how you have succeeded, and 
also how you failed in your attempts. 

Yorkshire Pudding, — One pint of milk, four taXA.^w^Wiix^"'^ ^^"^ ^'s^^i, 
two eggs, and a pinch of salt. Put the aaVt and. fLoxa vdX.o «.>q»«v^ ^ ^^L ^ 
bread, make a hole in the centre, and gradoaWy atit Va wjonj^ ol ^5a» ^ss^ 



Zn DIRECTIONS* 

to make the floor into a ytaj smooth paste ; break the eggs into a basin ; 
when they hare been well beaten, add them to the paste and the remainder 
of the xnilk. The whole pudding should then be mixed very qxdcklj 
together, and poured into the hot greased tin, and put on the bottom of 
the OTen for three minutes ; then place it under the roasting meat until one 
side is cooked, then turn it by putting one tin over the other. A pudding 
is much lighter when the batter has stood to rise for half an hour or 
more. 

Practice for Seventh Lesson, 

Morning Practice. — Three tables in line. Meat to be washed, and then 
weighed, to know how long to cook it. The two eggs for the Yorkshire 
pudding to be broken into separate basins, to give the two groups on either 
side of the cook practice in bating an egg properly, the girls to beat in turn. 
Practice in mixing the ingredients can also be had by putting the flour and 
milk into two basins ; the two portions to be afterwards poured into the 
pudding^tin. Girls to baste meat in turn. Cabbage divided and washed by 
two girls. 

Afternoon Practice. — ^Morning arrangements repeated. 

Eighth Lbsson.— DEMONSTRATION. 
Fish. — How to Select, Clean, and Cook, ^c. 

Distribute questions and receipts. Information in Lesson VIII., page 
41. 

Two tables only. A cheap fish that is in season to be stuffed and baked. 
Baked potatoes. Small suet dumpling, with currants. Show right method 
of washing currants and chopping suet ; the pudding can be made and pre- 
pared in a basin for boiling, but there will not be time to cook it. The girl 
who buys it can boil it at home. The girls must never be allowed to 
clean currants by the dirty method of merely rubbing them in a cloth. 

Questions and Seceipisfor Eighth Lesson, 

1. — ^Why do men and boys who work hard require a good deal of food 
that makes fat, called ' body warmers * ? 

2. —The suet pudding and stuffing contains the following foods — suet, 
sugar, flour. Tell me which of these foods will make fat, called ' body 
warmers.' Why will flour make &t, flesh, and bone ? 

3. — How would you dean a pudding cloth, and where would you put it 
when it was washed ? 

4. — ^What would you do with the inside of the fish, the skin of the suet, 
and the baked skins of the potatoes ? 

Suet Pudding, mth either Currants or Baisins, — ^Three ounces of finely 
chopped suet, ludf-pound of flour, quarter-pound of clean dry raisins or 
currants, two ounces of sugar, pinch of salt. All these ingredients are to 
be mixed together with sufficient cold milk or water to make into a rather 
stiff paste ; tie up in a cloth which has been dipped in hot water and t^en 
sprinkled over with flour; boil at least two hours. A plate should be put 
vnder the pudding, and the pudding be kept well covered with boiling 
water. 

^Sfy^^S^Jifr BaJeed Haddock, — Two ounces of suet, three ounces of bread 
enunbf, oae teaspoouM of chopped parsley, pepper an^ ea^^ U> Xas^a. ^&<^ 



t DIBBCTI0N8. XVll 

egg is to be well beaten, to which add about two tablespoonfuls of eithei- 
milk or water, then mix all the ingredients together. Fill the haddock with 
this stuffing and close the opening with a skewer (some people sew it up) ; 
bake one hoar, baste well with dripping. 

Baked Potatoes, — ^A baked potato must never be cooked in a cool oven, 
as when cooked it should be quite crisp. The oven must be so hot that 
flour will turn brown as it did for bread-baking. 

Practice for Eighth Lesson, 

Morning Practice. — ^Three tables in line. Five girls on right and left 
of cook, with paste-board, bowl, and knife placed ready for each ; and a 
basin of flour in centre of each group. First chop suet, then each girl wash 
currants in her bowl, add all together, and then put the pudding on to boil. 
At 11.15 A.M. ten girls return to school, the second ten take their places, 
make a second pudding, and put it on to boil in a pudding cloth. 

Afternoon Practice, — Arrangements as above. Ten girls chop parsley, 
suet, and mix the ingredients, then clean the fish and stuff it. When put 
into the oven tin, return to school, and the second ten girls prepare another 
fish at 3.15 P.M. 

Ninth Lesson.— DEMONSTRA.TION. 
Pastrt/f ^0, 

Distribute questions and receipts. Information in Lesson IX., page 46. 

Two tables. A small piece of pork. Clarify dripping. A sm«^ bottle 
of oil and water shows how the fat rises to the top, as the dripping cake 
does. Jam turnovers. Eoast with a hank of worsted, instead of a bottle-, 
jack. 

Questions and Beceiptsfor Ninth Lesson, 

1. — Why is a pie-crust or any kind of pastry very sad or tough when 
it is made in a hot room and by a cook who has hot hands ? 

2. — Why is pastry not light when it is made by a cook who presses the 
rolling-pin down heavily upon the paste ? 

3.— How would you find out that the oven was the right heat for baking 
pastry? 

4. — ^When a cook cleans or clarifies dripping or any fat she puts it 
into a basin and pours boiling water over it, and stirs the water and 
dripping well together. Tell me why the dripping or fat rises to the top 
of the water, and the dirt &lls to the bottom of the basin. 

Clarifying Drvpping, — ^Pour boiling water into the basin that contains 
the dripping, and stir uie water and (dipping up well together, then let it 
remain until cold. Then take off the cake and put it into a jar, just to melt 
in the oven. When the dripping cake is cold it will be very clean, and 
Jieep for some time, as the second melting down, or rendering, as it is 
called, has sent out all the water. Fat that rises on the water in which 
beef, mutton, or veal has been boiled should be clarified in the same way. 

Savoury Pttddiaig, — ^Three ounces of bread, three ounces of oatmeal, 
three ounces of suet, one teaspoonful or six leaves of sage, three large 
onions, one egg, and half a pint of milk. Soak the bread in. tVv<b \nl^^2&.^ss^^ 
quite soft ; boil the onions in plenty of w&tAT \ ^Veix VfexAfirc <3qss^ ^Cic^^avxs^^ 
very fine; the./juet also must be chopped, ^et^ ^^ v ^^^ ^^ ^^^^^^v^jaa 
aoaked bread with the oatmeal. Mi± aXl tkie \iiec««:v«v\i^ ^^ \^5^w»<*« 



ZVIU BIBECTIONS. 

Just before putting the pudding into the oven add the egg, well beaten, 
pepper and -salt to taste. Pat an ounce of dripping into tiie pudding tin, 
make it hot before you pour the pudding in; hake three-quarters of 
an hour. 

Jam Turnover (quantities for one). — Two tablespoonfuls of flour, two 
fteaspoonfuls of dripping, and about a tablespoonful of water. When the 
paste is rolled to the right size and shape, put in a dessertspoonful of jam ; 
fold and put it into the oven. 

Practice for Ninth Lesson, 

Morning Practice. — Three tables in line. Ten girls tnke their places 
as directed, provided with paste-boards, roUiug-pins, and bowls. A basin 
of flour, jug of water, tablespoons and teaspoons to be placed in the centre 
of each group, so that each girl may measure her own dripping, flour, and 
water. Quantities: — Two tablespoonfuls of flour, two teaspoonfiils of 
dripping, and a tablespoonful of water. When the paste is rolled to the 
right size and shape, each girl to put in a dessertspoonful of jam, fold, and 
put it into the oven. 

The remainder of lesson employed in baking and washing*up. 

Afternoon Practice, — Morning arrangements repeated. 

Tenth Lesson.— DEMONSTRATION 
Cornish Parties, ^c. 

Distribute questions and receipts. Information in Lesson X., page 51. 

Two tables in line. Scattered rice or mould. One Cornish pasty, 
made according to the receipt in book, and another with the egs boiled 
hard and without the liquia, in order that it may be baked without a 
saucer, and easily carriea home. Cook to weigh by spoons and measures, 
not by scales, after the first lesson in weighing. 

Questions and Receipts for Tenth Lesson, 

I. — In the winter, when there is no lettuce, mustard and cress, celery, 
water-cresses, &c., sometimes called ' mineral foods ' because they contain 
mineral, such as iron, lime, phosphorus, potassium, what uncooked vege- 
tables could you eat that would do instead of these ? 

2. — ^Why did an immense number of our poor sailors die of scurvy when 
they went long voyages about a hundred years ago ? 

3. — Tell me how you could make either a meat, vegetable, or firuit 
Cornish pasty, so that it should contain ' body-warmers,' 'flesh-formers,' and 
* mineral ' foods. 

4. — How would you cook rice or maccaroni so that it could be eaten 
with any kind of meat, or with milk and sugar, or with treacle alone ? 

Cornish Pasties (No. 1). — Rub two ounces of clarified dripping into four 
ounces of flour, mix them together with two and a half tablespoonfuls of 
cold water ; knead into a paste, then roll it out until it is the thickness of 
half an inch, and line a small tin plate or saucer that has been rubbed 
with a little drippine. Toast a thin slice of either ham or lean bacon veiy 
slightly, only enough to take away any raw taste, out it up in£o pieces of 
hSi an inch. Next beat up one whole egg in a basin, then add two and a 
Iislf tableapooidtds of either skim milk, new milk, or cream, to the egg, 
-iKut^ s little pepper aad salt, and then put in the "{iveceB oi '\>Moii \ ti»x ^si. 



BIBECTIONS. XIX 

up well together, and fill the saucer with the mixtnre and c6ver it OTer 
with a lid of the paste. Potatoes may be used instead of the ham or bacon, 
or mixed with it, or the meat of fish, flesh, or fowl might be used. These 
pasties can be made the same shape as tnmoTers if less liquid be used. 

Cornish Pasties (No. 2). — To one pound of flour, rub in half a pound of 
dripping, an j kind will do ; then mince a little bacon or ham along with any 
kind of meat, and mix with the meat a little potato and onion ; season 
with pepper and salt to taste. Boll out the paste, put in the above, then 
place on a paste cover, and bake in a slow oven for twenty minutes. 

Cornish Pasty (quantities for one pasty). — Two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, two teaspoonftils of dripping, and a tablespoonful of water. When 
the paste is rolled to the right size and shape, each girl to put in a dessert- 
spoonful of the ingredients, fold, and put it into the oven. 

Mould of Whole Bice, — One tablespoonful of rice, half a pint of milk; 
sweeten with two teaspoonfuls of sugar. Stir for ten minutes, and then 
simmer for one hour or more. Pour it into a basin that has been well 
rinsed with cold water ; if the basin is dry, the mould will not turn out. 

Scattered Bice, — Two ounces of rice well washed in cold water, then 
add one quart of water, simmer until tender in boiling water, then pour 
the rice and water into a sieve ; shake the rice about for a short time on 
the sieve, and stir it with a fork to prevent the rice from sticking together. 

Practice for Tenth Lesson, 

Morning Practice, — Three tables in line. Ten girls stand as directed, 
furnished with a roUing-pin, paste-board, and knife. Each group to have a 
jug of water and basin of flour. When the pastry is made, one girl toasts 
the slice of ham and cuts it into small pieces ; two girls each boil an egg 
hard, and then chop it fine ; two girls peel the cold potatoes, and each cuts 
up one ; the remaming three girls to measure out two tablespoonfuls of 
flour into each bowl, and two teaspoonfuls of dripping. The ten girls must 
tlien return to their places, tarn tneir boards to the clean side, and make 
their paste. The mixture of egg, ham, and potatoes to be put into the 
pasties -by each girl. Mince a small quantity of meat with the mincing 
machine, and show the girls how to clean one thoroughly. (Text Book, 
page 16.) 

Afternoon Practice, — Morning arrangements repeated. 

Eleventh Lesson.— DEMONSTRATION. 

F^ng, ^c. 

Distribute questions and receipts. Information in Lesson XI., page 6Q, 
Two tables. Stove at right angles to them, so that the frying-pan and 
its contents can be seen by uie whole class. 

Baked rice pudding. Clean and fry fish. Mash potatoes. 

Questions and BeoHptsfor Eleventh Lesson, 

1. — How would you find out the proper heat of fet to fry either fish, 
veal, or potatoes, so that they should have a beautiful brown colour? 
Ought the &t to boil? 

2. — Why is fried mutton chop or lieefsteak very imwholesom^ ws.^W- 
digestible for an invalid or a person -who Toaa «k -veeiJK. «XHtsias2ix.1 "^Xsj 
pught these two meats to be cooked on a g;t\d\Toii^ 

S.—^Wtty are eggs indigestible in a \ aVed xVee -^xjASat^'^ . 

a 2 



XX BIBECnOMS. 

• 

Baked Rice Pudding, — Two tablespoonfuls of rice (two ounces) ; one 
pint of either milk or water, or half water and half milk ; one teaspoonf ul 
of finest chopped suet ; one tablespoonfiil of brown sugar (one ounce). The 
rice must be twice well washed in cold water, and then put into a pie-dish ; 
the milk, sugar, and suet can then be added to the rice, and all well stirred 
up together ; the pudding ought to be baked yery slowly, three hours is 
not too much; the heat of the oven ought not to be more than 260^. 
Nothing is more indigestible for a weak stomach than eggs which have 
been put into a pudding and baked, because the albumen in the egg gets 
very hard, and is said to be as difficult to digest as leather. When new 
miUL can be got to put into the pudding, neif£er suet nor butter need be 
added ; suet is added when water is mixed with the milk. 

Baked Rice Pudding (quantities for one pudding). — One ounce of rice, 
half-pint of milk, two teaspoonfuls of sugar ; the girls to prepare and to 
put these quantities into their dishes. 

Fried Plaice, without Bread-crumbs and Egg, — Dip in clean cold water 
and wipe very dry, and hang up in a current of fresh air if there is time ; 
sprinkle it over with a little flour ; put four ounces of dripping into the clean 
fi'ying-pan, and melt until a piece of bread turns a nice brown in about a 
minute, or the thermometer rises to 350° ; the fish should then be put in the 
pan, and turned when the under part looks brown ; when the two sides are 
brown the frying-pan must be put on the oven-top, where the fish can cook 
slowly, until the flesh leaves the bone when a knife is put between the flesh 
and bone. 

Each girl to fry a piece of bread and a small piece of fish. The quantity 
of laid must not be less than four ounces, as the bottom of the frpng-pan 
must be well covered* 

Maehed Potatoes,— One pound of potatoes, half an ounce of dripping or 
butter, two tablespoonfuls of milk (the milk is not necessary). Boil the 
potatoes in their skins ; when done take them out of the pan, let them stand 
by the fire iust to get dry, then peel them and put them back into the pan ; 
beat them up with a potato-crusher or large fork ; the dripping and a little 
salt can then be added, and when all has been well mixed up together, and 
becomes very hot, put the mash into a dish, and just draw the fork lightly 
across the top to make it look rough. 

Practice for Eleventh Lesson, 

Morning Practice, — Only two tables in line. Stove to stand at riij^ht 
angles to the tables. Ten girls to be provided with a small pie-dish that 
holds one ounce of rice, half-pint of milk, two teaspoonfuls of sugar ; the 
girls to put these quantities into their dishes. One girl at a time is to 
be taught by the cook to find when fat is the proper heat, and then fry a 
piece of bread and a small piece of fish. The quantity of lard must not be 
less than four ounces, as the bottom of the frying-pan must be well covered. 
No girl must leave her place until called. 

4ft$moo» Practice, — Morning arrangements repeated. 

TwBLFTH Lesson.— DEMONSTRATION. 
Invalid Cookery, 
I>iBtribnte questions &nd receipts. InfoimaiUou in Ijobbou.1^11.^ ^B^^ 



DIRECTIONS. 

Two tables in line. Invalid cookeiy. Seef-tea, barley water, milk 
gniel, water gruel, and coffee. j . . 

Questions and Beceiptsfor Tweffth Lesson. 

1. — ^Why do doctors order a nurse to give new milk and beef-tea to a 
person who is ^nffering from a fever, or any of the following complaints, 
which are all called fevers : — Small-pox, chicken-pox, measles, scarlatina, 
typhus, enteric or gastric fever, yellow fever, relapsing, remittent, cholera, 
mumps, and influenza ? 

2. — ^Why would a person in a fever be starved or pined if the nurse only 
gave him beef-tea? 

3. — The strongest beef-tea is made with the same weight of water and 
beef. How would you make a pint of beef-tea so that none of its juices 
and flavouring matter, called osmazome, should be wasted ? 

4. — By what means could you cook food in a saucepan or jar and prevent 
the food from ever boiling at 212 degrees ? 

Beef-tea, the strongest, — One pound of lean beef; remove all'flldn and 
gristle, cut up to the size of an inch, cover over in a jar with one pint of 
cold water and a pinch of salt ; let it stand for one hour, then put the jar 
into a pan of boiling water, either on the flre or in the oven, for pne or two 
hours ; the water in the pan must be kept boiling. If an egg is ordered to 
be added to the beef-tea, it must be beaten up and added when the tea is 
taken off the fire ; if put in and allowed to boil, the egg would crack. ■ • 

Quantity of herf to be prepared by each girl for beef-tea. — One ounce 
of beef, two tablespoonfuls of cold water. When cut up, to stand for h^ 
an hour or more, and then placed in a jar in a pan of boiling water on the 
fire for an hour. 

Barley Water. — Two ounces of pearl barley to be well washed in cold 
water, then boil for five minutes in another water — this water must be 
thrown away ; two quarts of boiling water must then be added, and the barley 
allowed to simmer until the water is reduced to one quart ; cut some veiy 
thin slices off the outside of a lemon, to flavour the barley water, squeeze 
out some of the juice through either a sieve or a piece of muslin ; add sugar 
to taste. The barley water ought not to be strained unless the sick person 
particularly wishes this to be done. 

Milk GHruel. — Quarter of an ounce of grits, quarter of a pin^ of water, 
three-quarters of a pint of milk (the milk and the water together make a 
pint), half an ounce of sugar. 

Water Gruel. — Mix one large tablespoonful of oatmeal into a (Smooth 
paste with a little cold water; pour in (mixing all the time) a pint of 
boiling water ; boil for ten minutes, stirring as before, and strain. It may 
be eaten with salt or sugar, according to taste. 

A Cup of Milk Gruel. — Mix two small teaspoonfuls of oatmeal into a 
smooth paste with a tablespoonful of hot water. Pour in (mixing all the 
time) half a pint of hot milk. Place the jar or jug in a pan of boiling 
water, and let it simmer for about three-quarters of an hour ; stir fre- 
quently. Sweeten according to taste. 



Practice for Twelfth Lesson, 



Fracttcefor Iweljth Lesson, 
Morning Practice. — Three tables in \\nft. leiv ^tV&\^ ^^^.tA^^^cs^^j^n 
provided with paste-B6ards. Eacli to cut \r^ crti«> wmcft c>l\>^*l ^^^?f^:^^^ 
When ready, to he put into a bowl, w \t\v \\ie ^aV^^ ^^^^o^x ^^^ ^^^ 



lEfii DIRECTIONS. 

!then left to stand until the afternoon. The girls return to school at 11.15 
▲jc, and the other ten take their places to prepare beef-tea. 
Afternoon Practice, — Morning arrangements repeated. 

Thibtbbnth Lbsson.— demonstration. 
Invalid Cookery, 

Distribute questions and receipts. Information in Lesson XIIL, 
page 64. On page 88 information about cocoa. 

Invalid cookery. — ^A boiled custard. An egg whipped and mixed with 
milk, afterwards made into a custard too much cooked, to compare it with 
the one well made. Mould of rice. Cocoa. 

Questions and Receipts for Thirteenth Lesson. 

1. — ^Why ought invalids or delicate people not to eat cold meat, or cold 
meat that has been warmed up or hashed? 

2. — ^Why is an egg that hajs been beaten or whipped a cooked egg ? 

3. — ^Why is a whipped egg very easily digested ? 

4. — How would you arrange a little tray upon which you were going to 
cany a dinner to an invalid ? 

Whole Beef-tea. — Three-quarters of a pound of lean beef ; remove all 
skin and gristle, and cut up into pieces an inch square ; place in a basin 
with half a pint of cold water, and let them stand for about one hour, until 
the cold water has drawn out all the juices. The pieces of beef should 
then be taken out of this water and put into a jar with one pint of cold 
water, and the jar be put into a pan of boiling water for two hours, when 
the cold half-pint of juice in which the beef stood must be poured into the 
hot beef-tea, the pieces of beef taken out and pounded well in a mortar, or, 
if there is no mortar, in a clean wooden bowl, with the end of a rolling-pin 
or potato-crusher ; then add them to the hot beef-tea, flavour with a little 
salt, and a stalk of green celery or a small onion and a few cloves. 

Custard. — Two fresh eggs beaten up well and mixed with half a pint 
of new milk, one teaspoonful of sugar, and one bay leaf. Put all into a 
jar, which should stand in a saucepan of boiling water. Stir the custard 
tiie whole time. Directly it begins to thicken, take the jar out of the 
boiling water and keep stirring for five minutes. 

An Egg beaten up with MUk or Wine. — First beat up a whole fresh egg, 
and then add either two teaspoonfols of new milk, or sherry wine if 
ordered. Some people may like a little sugar. 

Minced Mutton. — Take a fresh mutton chop, or any fresh lean mutton. 
Bemove all iat and flesh from bone, chop the lean very finely, flavour to 
taste with pepper and salt. Cook the mince in a little jar, covered over, for 
half an hour in a pan of boiling water ; let the bone with two tablespoonfuls 
of water be simmering to make a little gravy to add to the mince. When 
served up, little pieces of toasted bread can be put round the dish in the 
gravy. 

Potato Surprise (taken from Dr. Chambers's book on * Diet in Health and 

Disease '). — Choose a large potato, brush and wash quite clean, scoop out 

the inside, taking care to leave a piece of skin on to cover the hole. Take 

3 &a6 mutton chop, cut off all die meat, mince the lean very fine, and 

/bronr with pepper and salt ; then fill the potato "witYvtixftToiua^, cmec m^ 



DIRECTIONS. * XXin 

the hole, and bake the potato. If the mince is drj, a little gravy can be 
added. 

Boiled Batter, without Egg, — Fonp tablespoonfuls of flour, one pint of 

new milk, one pinch of salt ; flavour with gpnger and nutmeg ; boU in a . 

basin for one hour or more. I 

Boiled Batter Pudding ^ with Eags. — Whisk two eggs to a froth, then add j 

three tablespoonfuls of ^our ana two tablespoonfuls of milk. Beat the < 

batter until it is perfectly smooth ; then add one pint of milk and a pinch : < 

of salt. Boil in a buttered basin or floured doth one hour. | 

Dry Toast. — Cut a slice of bread, ai least half an inch thick, off a loaf .| 
of very light bread that is neither quite new nor stale. Toast it very 
quickly before a hot, bright fire ; then cut off the crust, divide it if the 
slice is large, and place the pieces upright. If they lie flat the toast 
becomes tough and indigestible, because the moistiire cannot get out through 
the toasted part — only through the soft sides. Toast should be eaten 
directly it is made or it is not good. Thin hard toast contains very little 
nourishment, and like a hard biscuit is indigestible. When bread is toasted 
slowly before a poor fire it always becomes hard and flinty, though the 
slices are not cut thin. 

A Cwp of Boiled Custard. — One fresh egg, a large teacupful of new 
milk, and a small teaspoonful of sugar. Each girl break her own egg, and 
take out the little germ. When the egg is beaten to a froth, add the tea- 
cup of milk and the sugar. Put the jug or jar into a pan of boiling 
water on the flre, and stir the whole time ; direcdy it begins to thicken, the 
jar must be taken out, and the custard stirred for at least five minutes. 
A custard cooked in a jug placed in boiling water takes about twenty 
minutes. If the white is left out the custard is thin and less nourishing. 

Cup of Cocoa* — Mix gradually two teaspoonfuls of cocoa to a smooth 
paste with half a teacup of boiling water, then fill up the cup with very 
hot milk, and sweeten according to taste. The best way of heating the milk 
IS to put the jug which contains it into a pan of boiling water, particularly 
when only a small quantity is needed. A glass bottle serves nicely for 
heating milk, but it must be put into the water when it is cold or the 
bottle will break. 

SmaM Mould of Ground Bice. — Two small teaspoonfuls of rice, a teacup- 
ful of milk, and a teaspoonful of sugar. Mix these ingredients, and place 
the utensil in a pan of boiling water ; then put it on the fire for about half 
an hour; pour the mixture into a teacup that has been rinsed out of cold 
water ; if the cup is dry the mould will not turn out. 

Practice for Thirteenth Lesson, 

Morning Practice. — Three tables in line. Ten girls to stand as directed. 
Each girl to be taught to break an egg, and separate the yolk from the 
white into her bowl ; they are then to be taught how to beat the whole 
egg. A teacupful of milk is then to be given to each girl to mix with 
the egg, and half a teaspoonful of sugar ; the ten portions to be put into 
one jar, and placed wiUi a cover in a pan of boiling water, and stirred 
occasionally. The girls are to learn how to make dry toast. Each. ^V\f^ 
make a cup of cocoa. 

Afternoon Practice. — Morning arrangemeio^A \;o \s^ xe^«^\'^^» 



XXIT I)IRECTION& 



FouBTKBNTH Lbsson.—DEMONSTIIATION. 

SoupSt fe. 

Distribute questions and receipts. Information in Leuon XIV^ 
lAge 69. 

Prepare a qnarter-ponnd of meat for stock. Hake a vegetable aonp^ 
without butchez^s meat. Baked roly-poly pudding. 

Questions and Receipts for Fourteenth Lesson, 

1. — Why ought the water or stock in which any fresh butcher's meat or 
vegetables have been boiled (except potatoes in their skins) never to be 
thrown away, but poured while it is hot into a clean jug or basin ? 

2. — What is the white substance called scam, and why does it rise to 
the top of the water in which butcher*s meat or ve^tables are boiled? 

8. — ^Why do doctors seldom allow a nurse to give jelly to patientfi who 
are very weak or have delicate stomachs ? 

4. — ^Tell me how you would make a soup with meat so that it should 
contain ' body-warmers/ ' flesh-formers/ ana ' mineral food ; * also a Boiip 
that should contain these three things without any meat. 

Meat Soup. — Stock made of two pounds of fresh meat and bone ; shin 
of beef is suitable, or brisket, and four pints of water, simmered four hours ; 
six ounces in all of the following vegetables — carrots, turnips, onions, and 
celery. 

Vegetable Soup. — Two pints of water, two ounces of green peas (carrots 
or any vegetables will do), one onion, one lettuce. All these TegetaUes 
must be cut up fine ; if carrots are used, they should be scraped (carrot 
soup is the nicest of all vegetable soups). To this must be added two cold 
potatoes, or uncooked ones, one tablespoonful of flour or oatmeal, mixed im 
with two ounces of dripping, half a teaspoonftil of sugar, some salt aS 

Sepper, half a pint of milk. The milk to be added when the vegetables are 
one. Milk is not necessaiy for the soup, only it makes it more nonrishing. 
These must all simmer gently for an hour at least, and then the soi^pwul 
be quite ready to be eaten. Split or dried peas and lentils require a much 
longer time (about two hours), and these are the most nourishing of all 
soups. 

PresfiTvef or Treacle Roly-Poly. — Mix three ounces of finely chopped 
suet with half a pound of dry flour, about two tablespoonfuls of cold water, 
and a pinch of salt. Roll out to the thickness of about half an inch. A 
tablespoonful of fine bread-crumbs to be mixed with as much treacle as 
will thickly cover the paste. If the treacle is spread alone over the paste, 
being thin or liquid, it runs out ; a few bread-crumbs make the treacle 
thick enough to spread about a quarter of an inch deep over the paste. 
Wet the edge of the paste with cold water, roll it up^ and press the edges 
finnly together ; lay it on a baking-tin and bake slowly for about one 
hour and a half. Some people prefer the crust to be made of dripping. 
I Baked Fruit Puddinff,—Sviet crust made exactly like the above and 
! rolled out to the same tmckness. Rub a basin inside with either dripping 
or butter, sprinkle with sugar, and then line with paste, and ^ it to the 
top with either rhubarb or apples, cut to the size of an inch. Add two 
tablespoonf^ of sugar, cover over with a cruat wetted TOMndthft «d^ with 
ix?Jd water, and press it to the lining. Bake ior a^oowX. V.-tto \kicraii% Vsl^ 



DIBEGTIONS. XXV 

moderate oven (300°). A boiled or steamed pndding is made rery much 
in the same way. In the case of the steamed pudding, care must he 
taken to keep the water under the steamer constantly boiling, and, of 
course, the water must boil before the pudding is put into the steamer. In 
making either a boiled or steamed pudding, the cook must remember not to 
put any sugar in the bottom of the basin, as is done in a baked pudding. 
A baked pudding, like a loaf of bread, should first be put on the bottom 
part of the oven, and then lifted on to the top shelf to brown. 

Baked Roly-Fcdy (quantities for one roly-poly). — ^Two ounces of flour, 
one teaspoonful of dripping or chopped suit, one yery large teaspoonful of 
jam. 

Practice for Fourteenth Lesson. 

Morning Pra/jtice. — Three tables in line. Ten girls stand as before 
directed, each with paste-board, knife, and bowl. Every girl to pare and cut 
a portion of a carrot, turnip, and lettuce, for vegetable soup, on the paste- 
board, the onion to be cut up on a plate. When the soup is made and put 
on to boil, each girl is to make the paste for the roly-poly pudding in her 
bowl, with two ounces of flour, one teaspoonful of dripping ; then turn the 
paste-board, and use the clean side. A very fall teaspoonful of jam is then 
to be put in. 

Afternoon Practice, — Arrangements of morning to be repeated. 

FiFTEisNTH Lesson.— DEMONSTEATION. 

Oatmeal Porridge, Arrowroot. 

Distribute questions and receipts. Information about saucepans, bread- 
pans, &c., in pages 2, 3, and 80. 

Morning Practice: — Three tables in line. Each girl to make a cup of 
arrowroot and a cup of oatmeal porridge, the ten portions tc» be put into 
the double pan. This being the last lesson, the girls to leave the utensils 
clean and the cupboard in order. Directions must be given as to the best 
kind of saucepans to be used, what sort of pans are best for keeping bread 
and cheese, and the material most suitable for kitchen cloths. Take 
names and ages of girls who wish to enter service, and give them the 
address of a respectable Registry Office. Directions how an infant's feeding 
bottle should be kept clean. (Text Book, page 16.) 

Afternoon Practice. — ^Morning arrangements to be repeated. 

' QuesOoTis and Receipts for Fifteenth Lesson. 

1. — ^What kind of saucepans do you think are the safest, strongest, and 
most easily kept sweet and clean ? 

2. — AVhat is the best material for making the kitchen cloths and dusters 
that are required in a cottage home ? How many would a yard make ? 

3. — Why is an earthenware pan the best to keep bread so that the crust 
shall not become soft? Why should the lid (made of wood) always be 
kept on, and have some holes in it ? A pan like this is also the best for 
keeping cheese. 

4. — Why is an earthenware jar that. is glazed inside, and has & ti^ai.- 
fitting lid wiihotU holes, the best for keeping flowx? 

Porridae.— Mix two tablespoonfdis of coocs^Xy ^gNWcA ^csiv^ ^^'^^^^^i 
with a teacupful of boiling water until it is qxx\\ft smwalOcv, ^\A NXv«o^ ^^^*^ 



xa. 



XXVI DIRECTIONS. 

% pint of boiling water, and keep frequently stirriog it in the pan, whieb 
rnnnt h* either on the hob or hung on the reoon, or pnt into ajar in boiling 
water, where it can simmer without fear of burning for three-qvartera of 
an honr. Some prefer to use a double saucepan for making porridge, as it 
miut )je well ana slowly done, or it is not wholesome. 

A Breakfast-cw]^ of Porridge. — Mix two teaspoonfUs of coarsely gxtnmd 
^iteh oatmeal with a tablespoonfiil of boiling water until it is quite 
smooth, then pour in a teacup of boiling water, put the jar into a pan of 
[loiiing wat<'r, and lot it cook for three-quarters of an hour at least. 

A Clip of Arrowroot. — Excellent for a cold if taken very hot after the 
fMtiont is in bed. First make the tcucup hot, then put in a small tea- 
s|KK;nful of arruwrrjot, mix gradually with water from a boiling kettle 
until the cup is full, then sweeten, and squeeze in the juice of half a 
J(;mon, either through a piece of muslin or a sieve. 

Ilanty Pudding.- I3oil one pint of milk ; a pinch of salt. Sprinkle 
gradually into the milk about four tablespoonfuls of flour, beating the 
mixture all the time with a fork while it is simmering, until it is rather 
thicker than butter. Then let it simmer for five minutes. 



METHOD OF TESTING THE EFFICIENCY OF 

THE SPECIAL CLASS. 

To the Chairman of the Education Committee Mrs. JBuckton hegs to 
tender her final official statement regarding the practical carrying 
out of the Cookery Instruction in the Schools under the Board. 

Mrs. Buckton having felt that the Cookery Scheme would be incom- 
plete unless the instructiou given to the 'Special Class' to receive the 
grant were annually tested, decided to make an experimental examination 
■of onp of these classes at the close of the course, in the presence of herself 
and Miss Murmy, the Cookery Instructor. A notice was therefore sent to 
the Head Mistress of the Sheepscar Board School, to the effect that the 
twenty girls prepared to gain the grant were to attend at the class-room 
fitted up for cookery — ten in the morning, and ten in the afternoon — from 
10 to 12, and from 2 to 4, November 27, to prepare, unaided, dishes of 
food they had made during the course ; also to wash up and put away in the 
cookery cupboard the utensils used during the lesson. A prize would be 
awarded by Mrs. Buckton to each girl who had attended every lesson ; but 
any attempt to give or receive information would disqualify for the prize. 

Mrs. Buckton arrived at 9.60. The tables were arranged. Miss Murray 
and ten girls were present. A list of the dishes, and the number of girls 
who were to prepare each kind, was written on the cookery slate as foUo-ws : 

jMoming, 

Five girls each make a currant teacake. 
J'lre girls each make a Cornish pasty. 



DIBECTIONS. XXVU 

V'.Ye girls each make a baked rice pndding. 
Three girls clean and boil a cabbage. 
Two girls clean and boil four potatoes, 
five girls each make a teacup of milk gruel. 
Five girls bake their teacakes. 

The foods were cooked and the utensils washed up a few minutes 
after 12. 

Afternoon, 

Mrs. Buckton found on her arrival at 2, Miss Murray and nine girls 
present. 

Five girls each make a cottage loaf. 

Four girls each make beef-tea. 

Five girls each make a teacup of boiled custard. 

Two girls grill a chop, boil two potatoes, and set out a tray in a 
tempting way for an invalid. 

Three girls each make a teacup of arrowroot. 

Two girls each toast a slice of bread. 

Five girls make egg sandwiches. 

Five girls bake their loaves of bread. 

The foods were cooked and the utensils washed up a little after 4 
o'clock, when the Clerk of the Board (Mr. Lee) arrived to examine and 
taste some of the dishes, which (with the exception of the cabbage and 
potatoes cooked in the morning, and the gruel) were set out for inspection. 
The experience gained by this examination convinced Mrs. Buckton that 
it was absolutely necessary that the instruction should be annually tested, 
if thoroughness, order, cleanly methods of preparing food, home practice, 
and regular attendance were to be attained. She therefore ventures to 
suggest that it be made a regulation of the scheme that the fortnight &fter 
the conclusion of the course be devoted to testing the instruction. 

Leeds: Dec. 11, 1882. 



LEEDS SCHOOL BOAED SANITAEY SCHEME. 

Method of Instbuction. 

The Lady Sanitary Teacher gives one lesson in the course of a fort- 
night (of about thirty minutes* duration) in each of thirty-five Girls' and 
Mixed Schools. The class consists of the upper Standards, but only 
scholars in the Fifth and Sixth Standards are required to answer the 
Questions, which, as a rule, are written as a composition school lesson. 
These lessons are illustrated by models, diagrams, and simple experiments. 
The apparatus is carried from school to school in a hand-cart. The 
course lasts for the school year. The lessons are selected fv^xs^ ^'^^'i&^i&&. 
in the House,' the text-book adopted by the 'BoBxdi. k* >iJaa tcqckJqrsc^ ^ 
the lessons in the course and the textr\)ook at© hoX. ^'Riv^^^ *va. ^rrssss^^^^'^ 
pa^e of the text-book is affixed to eacli leBSon, 



XXVIU 



DIRBCnOIfS. 



Syllabus. 



Page 
Health in the 
House ' . 1 



>t 



»> 



>» 



»» 



a 



>» 



» 



j» 



>» 



>> 



»> 



»» 



)t 



>) 



»» 



>> 



j» 



>» 



>» 



it 



17 
24 
26 
43 

49 



» 56 

,, 63 

„ 76 

„ 82 

„ 87 

„ 93 

„ 98 

„ 104 

„ 164 



' Food and Home 
Cookery' 189 

* Health in the 
House' . 145 



L 
11. 

m. 

IV. 

V. 

VI. 

VII. 

VIII. 

IX. 

X. 

XI. 

XII. 

XIV. 

XVI. 

XVII. 

XVIIL 

XIX. 
XX. 



Nature of good air ; the skin ; neeeasity 

for cleanliness ; how to prevent dying of 

thirst at sea. 
Nature of bad air; ventilation ; why we 

have fevers ; how to prevent the sptread 

of infection. 
Why dumb animals have fevers; cmel 

treatmen t of infants caused by ignonuioe. 
Information on the structure of the hninan 

frame, to prevent ignorant practices. 
Why children have bent legs and weak 

frames. 
Explain how the body is nourished by 

the circulation of the blood ; and how to 

prevent a person from bleeding to death. 
Why people faint ; how heat is formed in 

the body; use of thermometer; proper 

heat of a hot bath. 
Why infants and children ought to be 

well clothed; croup; how to restore a 

fainting or drowning person. 
General treatment of animals, especially 

horses ; show model of horse's hoof. 
How we digest our food ; functions of the 

teeth. 
Difference between animal and vegetable 

food ; why infants cannot digest solid food. 
Foods that make fat and cause the heat 

which is in our bodies. 
Foods that makefleshj muscle^ and nertfea ; 

bad effect of spirits. 
Why milk is the only food for an infant ; 

why people have scurvy. 
To show that people may be strong who 

do not eat butcher's meat. 
Why it is very dangerous to frighten 

children, and to give quack medicines. 

The organ of hearing. 

On clothing ; how to act if a person took 
fire. 

Banger of drinking impure water ; nature 
of organic matter. 



NJB. — The admission of boys in the Upper Standard has been allowed 

in Mixed Schools. The sholars in forty-four schools are under instntc- 

^ tion, as classes from nine other schools attend some one of the thirty-five 

• eentres. The dassea range from fourteen to eighty children. Chreatett 

namber present id one month, March 1882, was 8,146. 



DIBECTIONS. 



GOOKERY SCHEME. 

FOB EVENING SCHOOLS. 

The scheme for evening schools is drawn up on the same plan as that 
for day schools. As the lessons last for two honrs, I fonnd it necessary to 
increase the list of dishes. The experience I gained by attending several 
lessons showed me that many difficulties must attend evening schools if 
held in the winter, especially in laree towns. Careful parents object to 
their daughters being out late, and tne girls who come are very irregular 
in their attendance, owing to bad weather or the feeling that there is no 
obligation to attend. In some schools the attendance varied from five to 
twenty-seven, thereby causing great perplexity to the teacher. The ages 
of the girls as a rule varied from fourteen to eighteen. The Board soon 
discovered that they must engage an extra teacher for their evening cookery 
classes, as the Board Instructors naturally found they could not give more 
than two lessons a day. The Leeds School of Cookery, directly they were 
applied to, lent their aid, and spared one of their teachers for the twenty 
weeks, to cany out the Board scheme. The lady who was appointed told 
me that, notwithstanding the difficulties I have mentioned, she found the 
work very interesting. Girls who attend the day school are not eligible to 
receive a grant in evening schools. The following is the Clause that regu- 
lates the grant, according to the New Code of 1882 : — 

Art. 113 (6) : 'A grant on the examination of individual scholars in 
any of the elementary or additional (i.e. class or specific) subjects^ amounting 
to two shillings for each scholar passing in each subject ' {in Standards V, 
and upwards only). This clause refers to the Schedule IV. page 31, where 
Cookery is approved as a specific subject. 



: , 



A TABULATION OF THE LEEDS SCHOOL BOARD 

SCHEME OF COOKERY. 

FOB EVENING SCHOOLS. 

Ten pupils attend a Cookery Centre once a week, from 7 to 9 p.m., 
for a course of twenty lessons — ten Demonstration and ten Practice. 
Each pupil attending this class will have forty hours' instruction \tl 
Practical Cookery, according to the Begulations of tJaa "^^"^ ^^«ft.^ \'^!t^!«^^ 
to earn the grant. The number w^o may aXleiA \3tift \«Q. ^«atfi\v^\Jw*5sRso. 
leBspna mil depend upon the size of ^e c&yBa-TO0TCL« 



DIBECnONS. 



pied l^ 
IheLeMons. 




2 Woeks 


I. 


2 Wooks 


II. 


2 Wooks 


III. 


2 Weeks 


IV. 


2 Wwcks 


V. 


2 Weeks 


VI. 


2 Weeks 


VII. 


2 Weeks 


VIII. 


2 Weeks 


rx. 


2 Weeks 


X. 


Total 20 





I 



'Demonstration — Bread making, show how to wogh 
by spoons, jugs, &c., without scales, &e. 

Practice — Each to measure ingredients, make a 
cottage«loaf or bread cake, dry toast, cup of cocoa. 

' Demonstration — Teacake, rock-buns, wash carmnts, 
&c 

Practice — Each to measure ingredients, make a tea- 
cake, and a rock-bun. 

' Demonstration —Bight heat for cooking, boil potatoes, 
cook eggs, mould of ground rice, gnll a <mop, &c 
- Practice — Each to boil or poach an egg, make a sand- 
wich, a teacup mould of ground rice, help to grill 
^ a chop, &c. 

f Demonstration — Roast beef, Yorkshire pudding, 
stuffed haddock, cook a cabbage, &c. 

Practice — Prepare jointly a Yorkshire pudding, 
cook cabbage, baked stuffed haddock, or any 
cheap fish, &c. 

Demonstration — ^Boast pork, clarify dripping, jam 
turnovers, savoury pudding, &c 

Practice — Each to make a jam turnover, make 
jointly a savoury pudding, bake potatoes, &c. 

I Demonstration — Cornish pasties, scattered rice, or 
mould of whole rice, &c. 
Practice — Each to make a Cornish pasty, teacup 
mould of whole rice, &c. 
' Demonstration — Baked rice pudding, dean and fiy 

fish, &c. 
Practice — Each to fry a piece of bread, and make 

a baked rice pudding, &c. 
' Demxmstration — Invalid cookery: beef-tea, barley 

water, milk gruel, water gruel, &c. 
Practice — Each to prepare one ounce of beef -tea, 
each girl make half-pint of milk gruel, cup of 
coffee, &c 

{Demonstration — A boiled custard, an egg whipped 
with milk, macaroni and cheese, arrowroot, See. 
Practice — Each to make a boiled custard, cup of 
arrowroot, cook macaroni and cheese, &c. 
I Demonstration — Boiled rabbit, onion sauce, vege- 
table soup, roly-poly, &c. 
Practice — ^Make vegetable soup, each to make a 
baked roly-poly, &c. 



Each girl during the above course may make the following fifteen 
dishes f«^tr«^ herst^: — ^A bread cake or cottage loaf,'teacake, jam tnzn- 
OYBT, a Comuih pasty or meat pie, a small baked xice ']9;udd.m%,\Ak»^ «od]^ 
paddlag, &y a pancake, half a pint of milk giueV, a cup ofViwIV^A cru^ax^ 



DIRBOTIONS^ XXXI 



baked roly-poly, dry toast, cup of arrowroot, cup of cocoa ; boil an egg, 
make an egg sandwich, beef-tea, cup-mould of rice, cup of porridge, grill 
a chop, fry a piece of bread or fish. The following dishes are prepared 
jointly :— Vegetable soup, Yorkshire pudding, roaft beef, pork, savoury pud- 
ding, boiled rabbit, onion sauce, mincemeat, plum cake, Irish stew, pea 
soup, maccaroni cheese, potatoes boiled and baked, green vegetables, &c. 



DIEECTIONS FOR THE PRACTICAL CARRYING 

OUT OF THE SCHEME. 

FOR EVENING SCHOOLS, 

The following 'Directions* are only an outline of the arrangements and 
methods to be adopted to secure order, and that each girl attending the 
' Special Class ' shall have an equal share of practice, and complete the 
preparation of small dishes entirely herself whenever possible. 

The Information is given in the ten lessons that constitute the course. 
The number of each lesson and the first page will be found affixed to the 
' Directions.* The selection — left to the teacher — of the mirior dishes will 
be regulated by circumstances and the time allowed for each lesson. The 
pupils are to be requested to bring utensils to carry home the dishes they 
purchase, and to come with dean hands and nails. When they have taken 
their places, the register is to be called over. Printed questions and receipts 
are to be distributed at the Demonstration, not the Practice lesson ; and 
though the answering of the questions is not compulsory, the classes should 
be encouraged to answer them, as by so doing valuable information and the 
principles of cookery will be impressed upon their minds. 

The following is a list of the twenty small dishes that can be entirely 
prepared by each girl in the ' Special Class,' if she attends the whole course : 
A cottage loaf or bread cake, teacake, jam turnover, baked rice pudding,, 
baked soda pudding, baked roly-poly, Cornish pasty or meat pie, cup of 
beef-tea, milk gruel, cocoa, porridge, boiled custard, arrowroot, cup-mould 
of whole or ground rice, iry toast, egg sandwich, boiled or poached egg ^ 
grill a chop, fry a pancake, fry a piece of bread or fish. 

The dishes to be prepared jointly are roast beef, pork, Yorkshire 
pudding, savoury pudding, boiled rabbit, onion sauce, vegetables, mince- 
meat, plumcake, Irish stew, vegetable soup without meat, pea soup, 
macaroni cheese. 

FiBST Lesson.— DEMONSTRATION. 

Bread Making ^ ^c. 
Distribute questions and receipts. Information in Lesson IV., ^a^« QX^ 
Two tables in line. Make a small loaf*, -w^iWfi \\. \^ Tv««i% \m^ '^'^'^2^ 

cocoa and diy toast, and explain the natxtre oi Qcermasi wA>Qrt«^«^^^^^«^ 

Mow to measure with and without scaleB, &c. 



ZXXU DIBEGITONS. 

Questiow^ and Beoeiptsfor First Lesson. 

1. — How would jovL know when your dough had risen enough before 
patting it into the ovein to bake ? Why ought bread to be made in a clean 
room filled with good air P 

2. — Every kind of food that grows in the ground is called a * vegetable/ 
Is flour a ' vegetable ' ? 

3. — There are two kinds of flour. One kind is veiy white, the other is 
not so white, and is called ' seconds.' In which kind of flour do we find the 
most of the following things : — Albumen, that makes our flesh, muscles and 
nerves ; starch, that makes our fat ; lime, phosphorus, and gelatine, which 
are the only three things which make our bones grow strong and hard ? 

4. — How can you kill the yeast plant ? 

A Cottage Loc^ar Bread Cake,' — Six ounces of flour or six tablespoonfuls, 
quarter-ounce or half a teaspoonful of German yeast, a pinch of salt, about 
two tablespoonfuls of either water or milk just lukewarm ; let the dough 
rise for one hour, and bake about half an hour. 

Dry Toast. — Cut a slice of bread, ai least half an inch thick, off a loaf 
of very light bread that is neither quite new nor stale. Toast it very 
quickly before a hot, bright fire, then cut off the crust, divide it if the slice 
is laige, and place the pieces upright. If they lie flat the toast becomes 
tough and indigestible, because the moisture cannot get out through the 
toasted part— only through the soft sides. Toast should be eaten directly 
it is made, or it is not good. Thin hard toast contains very little nourish- 
ment, and like a hard biscuit is indigestible. When bread is toasted slowly 
before a poor flre it always becomes hard and flinty, though the slices are 
not cut thin. 

A Blum Cake. — One pound of flour, quarter-pound of butter or dripping, 
quarter-pound of sugar, quarter-pound of stoned raisins or sultanas, one 
ounce of candied peel, two eggs, one teaspoonful of the best carbonate of 
soda, four tablespoonfuls of milk. Bake about one hour and a quarter in a 
moderate oven (240°). Mix the butter into the flour, add the sugar, 
raisins, and lemon peel cut into small pieces. Break the GggSt and separate 
the whites from the yolks ; beat the yolks %ell, add them to the milk, pour 
into the other in^edients, and mix all together. Grease a hot tin ready, 
then whip the whites of the Qggs into a stiff froth with a knife, and stir it 
lightly into the mixture, adding the carbonate of soda, whidi must be 
sprinkled and mixed in the last thing before the mixture is poured into 
the tin and put into the oven ; by doing this the cake will be made light 
and have no taste of the soda. Another secret of making cakes light is to 
beat the eggs well and separately, not the yolk and white together. If only , 
half a pound of flour is used the cake is richer. 

A Vup of Cocoa. — ^Mix gradually one and a half teaspoonfuls of packet 
cocoa with half a teacup of boiling water, then flii up tne cup with very 
hot milk, and sweeten. The cocoa will be much better if it is poured into 
a jug and allowed to simmer for a quarter of an hour in a pan of boiling 
water. 

A Breakfast'Cu^ of Borridge. — Mix two teaspoonfuls of coarsely ground , 
Scotch oatmeal with a teacupful of hot water until it is quite, smooth, 
and then pour in a teacup of boiling water, and keep frequently stirring it 
in the pan, which must be either on the hob or hung on the recon, or put 
into a jar in boiling water, where it can simmer without fear of burning fo^ 
Huv^-quaiUjv of tax hour, ThA latter method is tiecetsary when flo snuill a 



DlRECTIOirS. 

quantity is made. Some prefer to use a double saucepan for making 
porridge, as it must be well and slowly done, or it is not wholesome. 

Practice for First Lesson, 

The three tables to be formed in line. Five girls on the right and five 
on the left of the cook, with a bowl for each. Three paste-boards 
will serve five girls ; the end girl has one, and two will serve four girls if 
they stand opposite each other. A bowl of flour is to be placed in the 
centre of each group, yeast, salt, a jug of water, teaspoons and tablespoons 
(pictures 1 and 2, pages zi and ziii). Each girl is to measure her own in- 
gredients and make tbem into dough. The ten portions of dough are to be 
put into a large bowl, and allowed to rise for as long a time as the lesson 
admits. The dough is then to be weighed, six ounces to each girl, and 
made into small cottage loaves and put into the oven. If the oven is the 
right heat (400®) the loaves will be baked in rather less than half an hour. 
The quantities for each girl are given in the receipt. While the dough is 
rising, each girl is to toast a slice of bread and make a cup of cocoa, and a 
cup of porridge. 

The several cups of porridge had better be poured into one jug, and put 
into a pan of boiling water to simmer for three-quarters of an hour, as the 
girls could then leave it without fear of burning while they are baking the 
bread and washing up. The cocoa when mixed could be cooking genUy in 
the same way. 

Sbcond Lesson.— DEMOKSTEATION. 
TeacakeSt Roch-Buns, (fc. 
Information in Lesson V., page 26. 

Questions and Receipts for Second Lesson, 

1. — How would you find out when an oven was the right heat for baking 
bread if you had no thermometer ? 

2. — Why will a loaf of bread be sad or heavy if it is first put on the top 
shelf in an oven, instead of being first put for about ten minutes on the 
bottom shelf? 

8. — How would you make a teacake, with or without currants ; also a 
rock-bun ? 

Currant Buns^ Seed Buns^ or Teaoakes, — Two pounds of flour, half a 
teaspoonful of salt, two ounces of dripping, one egg ; German yeast, half- 
ounce ; half-pint of milk (lukewarm) ; small teaspoonful of caraway seed 
or three ounces of currants ; three oxmces of sugar. 

The currants should be very carefully washed and dried ; to rub them 
in a cloth instead of washing them in water is a very dirty method. 

Rock-Buns, — Melt in a basin three ounces of butter or dripping (do not 
make it too hot), stir in one pound of flour, quarter- pound of sugar (three 
ounces of currants or an ounce of seeds, which you like best), one ounce of 
candied peel. Whisk two eggs to a froth, mix half a gill of milk with the 
eggs, then work the whole together and bake in a moderate oven. 

Quantities for one Teacake. — Four tablespoonfuls of flour, about one 
tablespoonful of milk, one teaspoonful of sugar, the SMOfe cS. ^arcwgvsi%^'5w 
quarter of a teaspoonful of yeast, and a very stnaXVipmsSa. oi «s2A.\ ^^""o^"^** 
TiBe one hour, and bake in about twenty mmuXAS. 

b 



XXXIV DIBECTI0N8. 

Practice for Second Les$om, 

Three tables in lino. Five girls on the right of the cook and fire on the 
left, opposite tlif:" paste-boanls. as for bread-making. Each group to be 
furninhuil i»ith a Itasin of flour, sugar, salt, dripping, yeast, and jug of milk, 
with a tablespoon and teaspoon to measure their own quantities of all the 
ingredients (see pictures, pages xi and ziii). When the teacake dough is 
ready, it is to be put. into one bowl to rise.' While the teacake dough is 
rising, the ten pupils make rock-buns, as follows: — Two girls each break 
and boat an egg ; one measures a pound of flour ; one melts three ounces of 
but tor; one measures a quarter-pound of sugar ; two chop two ounces of 
onndiwi peel ; one mixes the milk and whipped eggs together ; one washes 
three ounces of eumints; one mixes the butter, when melted, writh floor. 
The ingredients to be all mixed together, and each girl to make a bun and 
bake it. 

Third Lbsson.— DEMONSTRATION. 

Boiling and Grilling^ ^c. 
Information in Lesson VI., page 30. 

Boil and poach an egg. Make egg sandwiches. Grill a chop or steak. 
13oil two potatoes. A tray to be set out with chop and every requisite, in a 
tempting manner, &c. 

Questions for Third Lesson. 

1. — How would you cook a fresh egg, or poach one, so that the white 
part (called albutncn) should be soft and well done, if you had no dock to 
tell you how long the egg had remained in the water? 

2.-- How would you cook a mutton chop or beefsteak on the gridiron so 
that all the gravy and juices should be kept in, and the meat be tender and 
tempting for a delicate stomach, and prepare a tray for an invalid ? 

3, — How would you boil a potato or any vegetable ? 

Hou^ to CiXik an Eqg without Boiling it. — ^Let a pan of water thoroug^y 
boil. As the (>an is lifted from the fire, have an egg ready in the hand to 
put in, and instantly cover the pan to keep in the steam ; place it on the 
warm fender, and let it remain for four or five minutes, when the egg niU 
bo done. A poached egg is done exactly in the same way. 

Grill a Mutton Chop or Beefsteak. — Place the chop on a dean wann 
gridiron, with a knife and spoon, so that no holes are made in the flesh to 
let out the gravy ; the gridiron must first be warmed or the chop will stick 
to the bars ; the fire ought to be very bright and red, and the chop turned 
once every two minutes. A large chop takes twelve minutes, and a thin 
one about ten. A beefsteak is cooked m the same way. 

Egg Sattdwiches. — Boil an egg until it is quite hard, chop fine, add a 
little pepper and salt to taste ; cut two slices of bread-and-butter, put the 
chopped egg on one slice and cover over with the other, then cut the sliees 
into convenient siies. 

Smail Mould of Ground Rice. — Two small teaspoonfuls of rice, a teaei^ 

of milk, sweeten with half a teaspoonful of sugar. Put the jug or jar that 

contains the mixture into a pan of boiling water. Stir for ten minutes, and 

let it simmer for half ao hour. Pour it into a teacup that has stood a fllKiit 

£uae IB ecld water, or the mould will not turn out. 



DIRECTIONS. XXXV 

. '"• '* VracticeJoT Third Lesson, 

Three tables in line. The five girls on either side of the cook to be 
employed as follows : — Two girls washing potatoes at one bowl ; one girl 
poaching and another boiling an egg. These two eggs are afterwards to 
be boiled hard for the sandwiches. Two girls cutting bread-and-butter for 
sandwiches, two chopping the egg on a paste-board. A gridiron is to be 
placed on the table, with an uncooked chop. The cook is to teach each 
girl how to turn it with a knife and spoon. When put on the stove, one 
girl at a time to come and turn it. The chop is to be turned every 
minute, arid cooked in twenty minutes, which gives every girl a chance of 
practising this art. A tray to be set out in a tempting way for an invalid. 

FouBTH Lesson.— DEMONSTEATION. 

Boasting^ Sfc. 

Distribute questions and receipts. Information in Lesson VII., page 
36. 

Roast a piece of flank of beef, which has a good deal of gristle. Ex- 
plain the time a fleshy piece takes to roast, and how much longer time is 
required for young or gristly meat. Yorkshire pudding under meat, and 
turned by placing one tin over the other. Stuffed haddock. Pancakes. 

Questions and Receipts for Fourth Lesson. 

1. — Why ought all meat to be dipped into hot water and wiped dry 
before it is either roasted or boiled ? Why is it both dirty and dangerous 
to wrap up food in a newspaper ? 

2. — How would you roast meat so that all its juices and flavouring 
matter, called osmazome, should be kept in the meat and not run into the 
dripping-pan ? 

3. — ^A Yorkshire pudding is made of flour, eggs, and milk. Tell me 
which of these foods are animal and which are vegetable foods ? 

4. — A quarter of an hour is allowed for every pound in cooking a joint 
of meat. If a joint weighed one pound, four ounces, how much time would 
it require ? Young meat, such as lamb, veal, or a gristly joint, such as a 
flank or shoulder, requires much longer. How much time would you allow for 
boiling or roasting such a joint that weighed one pound, twelve ounces ? 

Whenever you have been able to practise any of the cooking taught at 
the lesson, give me a faithful account of how you have succeeded, and also 
how you failed in your attempts. 

Yorkshire Pudding, — One pint of milk, four tablespoonfuls of flour, 
two eggs, and a pinch of salt. Put the salt and flour into a basin as 
for bread, make a hole in the centre, and gradually stir in enough of the 
milk to make the flour into a very smooth paste ; break the egg into a 
basin ; when it has been well beaten, add it to the paste and the 
remainder of the milk. The whole pudding should then be mixed up very 
quickly together, and poured into the hot greased tin and put on the 
bottom of the oven for three minutes ; then place it under the roast meat 
until cooked, and turned by placing one tin over another. 

Stuffing for Baked Haddock. — Two ounc&a oi sxx^X., nXit^^ <svs:^^'s» ^"v 
bread crumbB, one teaspoonful of c^iopped paiaYerj, ^^wg^^x ^xA ^^'^^^ 
Uate. One egg is to be well b«aten, to ^\Ac\i 8^31 tfbovxX. x.-^^ \»X^«s^^^=^:=^ 

b2 



XXXVl DIRECTIONS. 

of either milk or water ; then mix all the ingredients together. Fill the 
haddock with this stuffing, and close the opening with a skewer (some 
people sew it np) ; bake one hour ; baste well with dripping. 

Boiled Batter^ without Egg, — Two and a half tablespoonfols of floor, 
half a pint of new milk, one pinch of salt ; flavour with ginger or nntmeg. 
Boil in buttered basin one to two hours. 

Boiled Batter Pudding^ with Eggs. — Whisk two eggs to a froth, then 
add three tablespoonfuls of flour ana two tablespoonfuls of milk. Beat the 
batter until it is perfectly smooth, then add one pint of milk and a pinch 
of salt. Boil in a buttered basin or floured cloth one hour. 

Pancakes. — To one well- beaten egg add half a pint of milk, and mix 
gradually to it one tablespoonful of flour, with a pinch of salt. Let the 
batter stand for an hour or two. When it is ready, heat a small frying-pan 
over the fire and grease it in every part, then pour in only just sufficient 
batter to spread thinly over the bottom of the pan. When the under side 
is brown, toss it over with a sudden jerk of the pan, or turn it with a knife 
put under the middle of the pancake. Have a hot dish ready to receive 
the pancakes as they are done, placed before the fire. Sprinkle each with 
a little sugar. They ought to be eaten directly they are cooked. Plainer 
pancakes can easily be made from this receipt. 

Practice for Fourth Lesson. 

Three tables in line. Meat to be washed, and then weighed, to know 
how long to cook it. The two eggs for the Yorkshire pudding to be broken 
into separate basins, to give the two groups on either side of the cook 
practice in beating an egg properly ; the girls to beat in turn. Practice 
in mixing the ingredients can also be had by putting the flour and milk 
into two basins ; the two portions to be afterwards poured into the pudding- 
tin. Girls to baste meat in turn. A stuffed haddock to be prepared as 
follows : — Nine girls chop parsley and suet, and mix them together ; one 
girl cleans the fish, then stuffs it, and puts it into the oven tin. Each girl 
fry a pancake. 

Fifth Lesson.— DEMONSTKATION. 

Pastry, Sfc. 

Information in .Lesson IX., page 46. 

Two tables. A small piece of pork, one pound, five ounces. Clarify 
dripping. A small bottle of oil and water shows how fat rises to top, as the 
dripping cake does when the fat has cooled, which it cannot do at the 
lesson. Jam turnovers. Savoury pudding. Use a hank of worsted instead 
of the bottle-jack. 

Qjiiestions and Receipts for Fifth Lesson. 

1. — Why is a pie-crust or any kind of pastry very sad or tough when 
'it is made in a hot room and by a cook who has hot hands ? 

2. — Why is pastry not light when it is made by a cook who presses the 
rolling-pin down heavily on to the paste ? 

3. — ^How would you find out that the oven was the right heat for 
baking pastry ? 

4. — ^When a cook cleans or clarifies dripping, she puts it into a basin and 
^mv boiling water over it, and stirs the water and diVp^Kti^ ^«\\ XA^QAi}|[\&T. 



DIBECTIONS. XXXVll 

Tell me'TFhy the dripping rises to the top of the water, and the dirt falls 
to the bottom of the basin. 

Baked Potatoes. — A baked potato must never be cooked in a cool ovei, 
AS when cooked it should be quite crisp. The oven must be so hot that 
flour "mil turn brown as it did for bread-baking. 

Clarifying Bri'pping. — ^Pour boiling water into the basin that contains 
the dripping, and stir the water and dripping up well together, then let it 
remain until cold. Then take off the cake and put it into a jar, just to 
melt in the oven. When the dripping cake is cold it will be very clean, 
and keep for some time, as the second melting down, or rendering, as it is 
called, has sent out all the water. Pat that rises on water in which beef, 
mutton, or veal has been boiled should be clarified in the same way. 

Savoury Pudding. — Three ounces of bread, three ounces of oatmeal, 
three ounces of suet, one teaspoonful or six leaves of sage, three large 
onions, one egg, and half a pint of milk. Soak the bread in the milk until 
quite soft ; boil the onions in plenty of water, when tendei; chop them up 
very fine ; the suet also must be chopped very fine ; then add them to the 
soaked bread with the oatmeal. Mix all the ingredients well together. 
Just tefore putting the pudding into the oven add the egg well beaten, 
pepper and salt to taste. Put an ounce of dripping into the pudding-tin, 
make it hot before you pour the pudding in; bake three-quarters of an hour. 

Quantities for one Jam Turfwver. — Two tablespoonfuls of fiour, two tea- 
spoonfuls of dripping, and about one tablespoonful of water. When the 
paste is rolled to the right size and shape, each girl to put in a dessert- 
spoonful of jam, fold, and put it on the oven-tin. 

Mincemeat. — Half a pound of stoned raisins, half a pound of beef 
suet, half a pound of currants, half a pound of apples, three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar, two ounces of candied peel, grated rind of one lemon and 
its juice, half a teaspoonful of salt. The raisins to be chopped fine, and 
the ingredients are all to be mixed separately, and then well mixed up 
together. If the mincemeat is to be kept some time, a little brandy must 
be mixed with it. 

Practice for Fifth Lesson, 

Three tables in line. Ten girls take their places as directed, provided 
with paste-boards, rolling-pins, and bowls. A basin of fiour to be placed 
in the centre of each group, for each girl to measure her own flour ; also 
her lard, two teaspoonfuls, and a tablespoonful of water. When the 
paste is rolled ^o right size and shape, each girl to put in a dessertspoonful 
of jam, fold, and put it into the oven. Turnovers take twenty minutes if 
the oven is 380°. A savoury pudding to be made as follows : — One girl 
measures half a pint of milk ; one soaks two ounces of bread in milk ; one 
measures three ounces of oatmeal ; three chop three ounces of suet-— one 
ounce for each ; three chop three onions — one each ; one beats an egg. 
Bake three-quarters of an hour. Each girl make a small quantity of 
mincemeat. 

Sixth Lbssow.— DEMONSTEATION. 
Cornish Pasties, fc. 
Distribute questions i\nd receipts. Information on Lesson 'K.^'<^^kS|^ Vs.. 
Two tables in line. Scattered rice ox -nioTal^. ^^^ ^cstkv^^ -^ksfio^ 
made according to the first receipt, and a.Tiot\iei ^>i)ci>iXiek ^^^\sa^'5^\vs>2t^'» 



XXXVlll DIRECTIONS. 

and without the liquid, as it can thus be baked without a saucer, and 
easily carried home. Cook to weigh by spoons and measures, not by 
scales, after the first lesson on weighing. Mashed potatoes, &c. 

Questions and Receipts for Sixth Lesson, 

1. — In the winter, when there is no lettuce, mustard and cress, celery, 
water-cresses, &c., sometimes called ' mineral foods ' because they contain 
mineral, such as iron, lime, phosphorus, potassium, what uncooked vege- 
tables could you eat that would do instead of these ? 

2. — Why did an immense number of our poor sailors die of scurvy when 
they went long voyages about a hundred years ago ? 

3. — Tell me how you could make either a meat, vegetable, or fruit 
Cornish pasty so that it should contain ' body warmers,* ' fiesh formers,' 
and * mineral ' foods. 

4. — How would you cook rice or macaroni so that it could be eaten with 
any kind of meat, or with milk and sugar, or with treacle alone ? 

Cornish Pasties, No. 1. — Rub two ounces of clarified dripping into four 
ounces of flour, mix them together with two and a half tablespoonfuls of 
cold water ; knead into a paste, then roll it out until it is the thickness of 
half an inch, and line a small tin plate or saucer that has been rubbed with 
a little dripping. Toast a thin slice of either ham or lean bacon very 
slightly, only enough to take away any raw taste, cut it up into pieces o£ 
half £in inch. Next beat up one whole egg in a basin, then add two and a 
half tablespoonfuls of either skim milk, new milk, or cream to the egg, 
with a little pepper and salt, and then put in the pieces of bacon ; mix all 
up well together, and fill the saucer with the mixture, and cover it over 
with a lid of the paste. Potatoes may be used instead of the ham or 
bacon, or mixed with it, or the meat of fish, flesh, or fowl might be used. 
These pasties can be made the same shape as turnovers if less liquid be 
used. A meat-pie could be made from the receipt that would turn out 
of a small pie-dish, only suet instead of dripping should be used. 

Cornish Pasties, No, 2. — To one pound of flour rub in half a pound of 
dripping, any kind will do, then mince a little bacon or ham along with 
any kind of meat, and mix with the meat a little potato and onion ; season 
with pepper and salt to taste. Koll out the paste, put in the above, then 
place on a baking-tin, and bake in a slow oven for twenty minutes. 

Quantities for OTie Cornish pasty. — Two tablespoonfuls of flour, two 
teaspoonfuls of dripping, and a tablespoonful of water. When the paste 
is rolled to the right size and shape, each girl to put in a dessertspoonful of 
the ingredients, fold, and put it into the oven. 

Scattered Bice. — Two ounces of rice well washed in cold water, then 
add one quart of water, simmer until tender in boiling water, then pour 
the rice and water into a sieve ; shake the rice about a short time on the 
sieve, and stir it with a fork to prevent the rice from sticking together. 

Mould of Whole Rice. — One tablespoonful of rice, half a pint of milk ; 
sweeten with two teaspoonfuls of sugar. Stir for ten minutes, and then 
simmer for one hour or more. Four it into a basin that has been well 
rinsed with cold water ; if dry, the mould will not turn out. 

Mashed Potatoes. — Ond pound of potatoes, half an ounce of dripping 
or butter, two tablespoonfuls of milk (the milk is not necessary). Boil 
t;he potatoes in their skins ; when done, take them out of the pan, let them 
atand by the £re juat to get dry, then peel tliem and "pxit \i3tv««v \>«.0t Voju^ 



DIBECTIONS. 

the pan ; beat them up with a potato-crasher or large fork ; the dripping 
and a little salt can then be added, and when all has been well mixed up 
together, and become very hot, put the mash into a dish, and just draw 
the fork lightly across the top to make it look rough. 

Practice for Sixth Lesson, 

Three tables in line. Ten girls stand, as always directed, furnished with 
a rolling-pin, paste-board, and knife. Each group to have a jug of water 
and basin of flour. When the pastry is made, one girl toasts the slice of 
ham, and cuts it into small pieces ; two girls each boil an egg hard, and 
then chop it fine ; two girls peel the cold potatoes, and each cuts up one ; 
the remaining three girls to measure out two tablespoonfuls of flour into 
each bowl, and two teaspoonfuls of dripping. The ten girls must then 
return to tiieir places, turn their boards to the clean side, and make their 
paste. The egg, ham, and potatoes to be put into one basin, and flavoured, 
&c., and a dessertspoonful to be put in the pasties by each girl. Each girl 
to n^ash two potatoes in her bowl, &c. 

Seventh Lesson.— -DEMONSTRATION. 

Frying, ^c. 

Distribute questions and receipts. Information in Lesson XI., page 56. 

Two tables. Stove at right angles to them, so that the frying-pan and 
its contents can be seen. Baked rice pudding. Glean and fry fish, &c. 

Q^e8t^ons and Receipts ;f or Seventh Lesson, 

1 . — How would you find out the proper heat of fat to fry either fish, 
veal, or potatoes so that they should have a beautiful brown colour ? Ought 
• the fat to boil ? 

2. — Why is fried mutton chop or beefsteak very imwholesome and 
indigestible for an invalid or a person who has a weak stomach ? Why 
ought these two meats to be cooked on a gridiron ? 

3. — ^Why are eggs indigestible in a baked rice pudding? 

Baked Rice Pudding. — Two tablespoonfuls of rice (two ounces) ; one 
pint of either milk or water, or half water and half milk ; one teaspoonful 
of finest chopped suet ; one tablespoonful of brown sugar (one ounce). The 
rice must be twice well washed in cold water, and then put into a pie-dish ; 
the milk, sugar, and suet can then be added to the rice and all well stirred 
up together ; the pudding ought to be baked very slowly, three hours is not 
too much ; the heat of the oven ought not to be more than 212°. Nothing 
is more indigestible for a weak stomach than eggs which have been put 
into a pudding and baked, because the albumen in the egg gets very hard, 
and is said to be as difficult to digest as leather. When new milk can be 
got to put in the pudding, neither suet nor butter need be added ; suet is 
added when water is mixed with the milk. 

Frg Plaice without Bread-crumbs and Egg, — Dip in clean cold water 
and wipe very dry, and hang up in a current of fresh air if there is time ; 
sprinkle it over with a little flour, put four ounces of dri^^l3i\^%vck}vR^^5Qfe 
clean frying-pan, and melt until a piece oi "VsieaA. X.Txraa «. ^^^>2ft<2r«\i^>»>- 
about a mmvLto, or the thermometer lisea to ^^Q'^ \ >i)£v^ ^^ ^^"^^"^^^^^ 
put in the pan, and turned when tlie Tmder "^eiXi \Q<:^^Vt«^'^*'» '^^'^ 



Xl DIBBOTIONS. 

two sides are brown, the frying-pan mnst oe put on the hot oyen-top, where 
the fish can cook slowly, nntil the flesh leares the bone when a knife is put 
between the fiesh and bone. 

£aoh girl to fry a small piece of bread, and if possible a small piece of 
fish. The quantity of each must not be less than four ounces, as the 
bottom of the frying-pan must be well covered. 

SmaU Baked Bice Pudding for each Girl, — One ounce of rice, half a 
pint of milk, two teaspoonfuls of sugar. 

Soda Pudding (to be either baked or boiled). — Five ounces of flour, one 
ounce of raisins, two ounces of suet, one ounce of candied peel, two ounces 
of currants, two tablespoonfuls of golden syrup, half-teacup of boiling 
milk, half-teacup of cold milk. Chop the suet very fine and mix it wiw 
the flour ; add the sugar, currants, raisins, chopped candied peel, and then 
pour in the hot milk and then the cold milk. The carbonate of soda is 
to be sprinkled in and well beaten up just before the mixture is either 
poured into a greased pie-dish to be baked, or into a basin to be boiled. 
The above quantity will be enough for a half-pint pie-dish. As it rises a 
good deal, the dish should only be two-thirds filled. The mixture, if 
right, is not thicker than a batter. Bake one hour; boil two hours. 
This pudding is excellent cold. It could be made by either one or two 
girls ; the cost is about 4(f. 

Practice for Seventh Lesson. 

Only two tables in line. Stove to stand at right angles to the table. 
Ten girls to stand at the table as hitherto directed, provided with a small 
pie-(£sh that holds one ounce of rice, half-pint of milk, two teaspoonfuls 
of sugar; the girls to put these quantities into their dishes. One girl 
at a time is to be taught by the cook to find when fat is the proper heat, 
and then fry a piece of bread and a small piece of fish. The quantity of 
lard must not be less than four ounces, as the bottom of the frying-pan 
must be well covered. No girl is to move from her place until called. 

Eighth Lesson.— DEMONSTRATION. 
Invalid Cookery. 

Distribute questions and receipts. Information in Lesson XU., page 59. 

Two tables in line. Invalid cookery. Beef-tea, barley water, cofiTee, 
milk gruel, and water gruel, page 84. 

Questions and Beceiptsfor Eighth Lesson. 

1. — ^Why do doctors order a nurse to give new milk and beef-tea to a 
person who is sufiJaring from a fever, or any of the following complaints, 
which are all called fevers : — small-pox, chicken-pox, measles, scarlatina, 
^rphus, enteric or gastric fever, yellow fever, relapsing, remittent, cholera, 
mumps, and influenza ? 

2. — Why would a person in a fever be starved or pined if the nurse only 
gave him beef-tea ? 

8. — The strongest beef-tea is made with the same weight of water and 
beef. How would you make a pint of beef-tea so that none of its juices 
and flavouring matter, called osmazomo, should be wasted ? 

4. — ^By what means could you cook food in a saucepan ox ^ax asid •^xwctb^ 
ibe^wdSmn ever boiling at 212° ? 



PIBEGTIONS. Xli 

Beef-tea, the strongest, — One pound of lean beef ; remove all skin and 
gristle, cat up to the size of an inch, cover oyer in a jar, with one pint of 
cold water and a pinch of salt ; let it stand for one hour, then put the jar 
into a pan of boiling water, either on the fire or in the oven, for one or 
two hours ; the water in the pan must be kept boiling. If an egg is 
ordered to be added to the beef-tea, it must be beaten up and added when 
the tea is taken off the fire ; if put in and allowed to boil, the egg would 
crack. 

Barley Water. — Two ounces of pearl barley to be well washed in cold 
water, then boil for five minutes in another water ; this water must be 
thrown away ; two quarts of boiling water must then be added, and the 
barley allowed to simmer until the water is reduced to one quart ; cut some 
very thin slices off the outside of a lemon to flavour the barley water, 
squeeze out some of the juice through eiither a sieve or a piece of muslin ; 
add sugar to taste. The barley water ought not to be strained unless the 
sick person particularly wishes this to be done. 

Milk Gruel. — Quarter^ounce of grits, quarter-pint of water, three-quarters 
of a pint of milk (the milk and water together make a pint), half-ounce 
of sugar. 

Water Gruel. — Mix one large tablespoonful of oatmeal into a smooth 
paste with a little hot water. Pour in (mixing all the time) a pint 
of boiling water; boil for ten minutes, stirring as before, and strain. It 
may be eaten with salt or sugar, according to taste. 

A Cup of Milk Gruel. — Mix two small teaspoonfuls of oatmeal into a 
smooth paste, with a tablespoonful of hot water. Four in (mixing all the 
time) half a pint of boiling milk. Place the jar or jug in a pan of boiling 
water, and let it simmer for three-quarters of an hour, or rather less. 
Sweeten according to taste. 

Quantity of beef to be prepared by each girl for beef-tea. — One ounce of 
beef to two tablespoonfuls of cold water. When cut up, to stand for half 
an hour or more, and then placed to simmer in a jar in a pan of boiling 
water for an hour. 

Whole Beef'tea. — Three-quarters of a pound of lean beef. Remove all 
skin and grisde, and cut up into pieces an inch square; place in a basin with 
half a pint of cold water, and let them stand for about one hour, until the 
cold water has drawn out all the juices. The pieces of beef should then be 
taken out of this water and put into ajar with one pint of cold water, and 
the jar be put into a pan of boiling water for two hours, when the cold 
juice in which the beef stood must be poured into the hot beef-tea, 
the pieces of beef taken out and pounded well in a mortar, or, if there is 
no mortar, in a clean wooden bowl, with the end of a rolling-pin or potato- 
crusher ; then add them to the hot beef-tea, flavour with a little salt, and 
a stalk of green celery or a small onion and a few cloves. 

Egg Soup. — ^Water, half a pint ; the yolk of an egg ; half a teaspoonful 
of fresh butter ; sugar according to taste. Beat them up together over a 
slow fire, gradually adding the water. When it begins to boil, pour it 
backwards and forwards between the saucepan and jug till quite smootk 
and frothy. 

Panado. — Bread-crumb, one ounce; mace, one blade; w8.te>T^wsfe^S^^S!»-, 
Boil, without stirring, till they mix and tuin sm.w>\>a.*, >C«i«t^ "sA^ "^wsj^ssje. 
of nutmeg and a small piece of fresh "butter. \,Kis^» 

Zemonade.—WipQ a lemon clean, then paie SX. nctj ^Occvxi. «2c.^ "^^ 



xlii DIUBCTIONS. 

parings in a jug with an ounce of sugar-eandy or loaf-sugar. Squeeze the 
lemon into it through a piece of muslin or a sieve, to keep out the pips, and 
pour on a pint of boiling water. An orange may be used instead of a 
lemon. 

Practice for Eighth Lesson. 

Three tables in line. Ten girls to stand as directed, provided with 
paste-board. Each to cut up one ounce of beef for beef-tea. When ready, 
to be put into one bowl, with the water added, and then the whole left, to 
stand as long as time allows ; it is then to be placed in a pan of boiling 
water. Each girl to have a bowl, and make a half-pint of milk gruel, 
the whole to be poured into one jar, and placed in a pan of boiling water. 
A small quantity of beef to be minced by the mincing-machine, to give the 
girls an opportunity of cleaning the machine and of showing its construc- 
tion. Each girl to make a cup of coffee. Show how an infant's feeding 
bottle should be cleaned, &c. (p. 16). 



Ninth Lesson.— DEMONSTRATION. 

Distribute questions and receipts. Information on Lesson XUL, 
page 64. 

A boiled custard. An egg whipped and mixed with milk, afterwards 
made into a custard too much cooked, to compare it with the one well made. 
Water arrowroot and milk arrowroot, &c. 

Questions and Receipts for Ninth Lesson, 

1. — ^Why ought invalids or delicate people not to eat cold meat, or cold 
meat that has been warmed up or hashed ? 

2. — Why is an egg that has been beaten or whipped, a cooked egg ? 

3. — Why is a whipped egg very easily digested? 

4. — How would you arrange a little tray upon which you were goir.g to 
carry a dinner to an invalid ? 

Custard. — Two fresh eggs beaten up well and mixed with half-pint 
of new milk, one teaspoonful of sugar, and one bay leaf. Put all into 
a jar, which should stand in a saucepan of boiling water. Stir the custard 
the whole time. Directly it begins to thicken, take the jar out of the 
boiling water and keep stirring for five minutes. Remove the bay leaf. 

An Egg beaten up with Milk or Wine. — First beat up a whole fresh egg, 
and then add either two teaspoonfols of new milk, or sherry wine if 
ordered. Some people may like a little sugar. 

Minced Mutton. — Take a fresh mutton chop or any fresh lean mutton. 
Remove all fat and flesh from bone, chop the lean very finely, flavour to 
taste with pepper and salt. Cook the mince in a little jar covered over 
for half an hour in a pan of boiling water, let the bone with two table- 
spoonfuls of water be simmering to make a little gravy to add to the mince.. 
When served up, little pieces of toasted bread can be put round the dish in 
the gravy. 

A Oup of Arroivroot. — Excellent for a cold if taken very hot after the 

patient is in bed. First make the teacup hot, then put in half a tea- 

spoonful of arrowroot, mix gradually with water from a boiling kettle until 

tAa cnp 18 full, then sweeten, and squeeze in the jmce oi \ia\i «* Vetxwi^ either 

^f&roi^A a piece of muslin or a sieve. 



DIKECTIONS. xliii 

A Cv/p ofBoUed Custard. — One fresh egg, a teacup nearly full of new milk 
and a small teaspoonf ul of sugar. Each girl break her egg and take out 
the little germ, then beat the whole egg to a froth and add a teacupful of 
milk and the sugar. Put the jug or jar into a pan of boiling water, stir 
well until it begins to thicken, then take the jar out and stir for five 
minutes. A custard cooked in a double pan takes about twenty minutes. 

Maccaroni and Cheese. — Two ounces of maccaroni. The straight sticks 
must be broken into small pieces of about four inches, or to suit the sauce- 
pan. Boil in water until tender ; then place in a dish, a little salt and 
pepper added, and some cheese grated over the top ; then put into a hot 
oven until it is nicely browned. 

Practice for Ninth Lesson. 

Three tables in a line. Ten girls to stand as directed. Each girl to be 
taught to break an egg and separate the yolk from the white into the 
bowl ; then how to beat the egg properly. A teacup nearly full of new 
milk is then to be given to each girl to mix with the whole egg and half a 
teaspoonful of sugar. The ten portions to be put into one jar, and placed 
in a pan of boiling water, and stirred. Each girl to make a cup of arrow- 
root, &c. 

Tenth Lbsson.— DEMONSTEATION. 
Soups, §"0. 

Distribute questions and receipts. Information in Lesson XIV., page 69. 
Boiled rabbit and onion sauce. Make a vegetable soup without 
butcher's meat, &c. Baked roly-poly pudding, &c. 

Questions and Receipts for Tenth Lesson. 

1. — Why ought the water or stock in which any fresh butcher's meat or 
vegetables have been boiled (except potatoes in their skins) never to be 
thrown away, but poured while it is hot into a clean jug or basin ? 

2. — What is the white substance called scum, and why does it rise to 
the top of the water in which butcher's meat or vegetables are boiled ? 

3. — Why do doctors seldom allow a nurse to give jelly to patients who 
are very weak or have delicate stomachs ? 

4. — Tell me how you would make a soup with meat so that it should 
contain * body-warmers,' * flesh-formers,' and * mineral food ; ' also a soup 
that should contain these three things without any meat. 

Vegetable Soup. — Two pints of water, two ounces of green peas (carrots 
or any vegetables will do), one onion, one lettuce. All these vegetables 
must be cut up fine ; if carrots are used, they should be scraped (carrot 
soup is the nicest of all vegetable soups). To this miist be added two cold 
potatoes, or uncooked ones, one tablespoonful of flour or oatmeal, mixed up 
with two ouDces of dripping, half a teaspoonful of sugar, some salt and 
pepper, half a pint of milk, llie milk to be added when the vegetables 
are done. Milk is not necessary for the soup, only it makes it more 
nourishing. These must all simmer gently for nearly an hour, and then 
the soup will be quite ready to be eaten. Split or dried peas and lentils 
require a much longer time (about two hours), and these a^iiek ^'c^^ xasa;^ 
nourishing of all soups. 

Pea Sottp.—Two quarts of stock from \)0\\©^\ia.co^. o^ ^ "^'^'^ftT'^^ 
a little bacon, one pound or pint of sp\ix "p€»aa, o^^ \vft^ ^^ t«^«^ ^ 



xliv DIBECnONS. 

ouions, two CftZTOts, and two turnips. All to be chopped fine and sim- 
mered. If the peas hare soaked overnight, an hour and a half or two 
hours are sufficient. Pepper and salt to taste, and when served, add a 
little dried mint. 

Irish Stew. Any bits of fresh or cooked meat serve for this dish, but 
the scrag end of mutton is considered the best. Take one pound of the 
scrag end of mutton, hold under a tap of water for a minute, divide it into 
chops, place them in a pan with four peeled onions, season plentifully with 
pepper and moderately with salt, then add six peeled potatoes. Put in 
just enough cold water to cover it (about half a pint), cover the pan with a 
lid and let it cook gently for an hour and a half. If the pan is placed 
directly on the fire, tiie bottom of the pan will be burnt and the stew also 
The liquid ought not to be allowed to boil away. 

Preserve or Treacle Roly-Foly. — Mix three ounces of finely chopped suet 
with half a pound of dry flour, about two tablespoonfols of cold water, and 
a pinch of salt. Koll out to the thickness of about half an inch. A table- 
spoonful of fine bread-crumbs, to be mixed with as much treacle as will 
thickly cover the paste. If the treacle is spread alone over the paste, 
being thin or liquid it runs out; a few bread-crumbs make the treacle 
thick enough to spread about a quarter of an inch deep over the paste. 
Wet the edge of the paste with cold water, roll it up, and press the edges 
firmly together; lay it on a baking- tin and bake slowly for about one 
hour and a half. Some people prefer the crust to be made of dripping. 

A Small Boly-Poly. — Two tablespoon fuls of flour, two teaspoonfiils of 
dripping, and about one tablespoonhil of water. A large teaspoonful of 
jam to be put into the paste when it has been rolled to the proper size. 

Onion Sauce, — First boil three onions, or about one pound, in sufficient 
water until tender, then chop flnely : make a sauce of one pint of boiling 
milk, thickened with a tablespoon&l of flour, season with pepper and salt ; 
add the onions to the sauce, and simmer altogether for five minutes. 

Practice for Tenth Lesson. 

Three tables in line. Ten girls stand as directed, each with paste-board, 
knife, and bowl. Every girl to pare and cut a portion of a carrot, turnip, 
and lettuce, for vegetable soup, on the paste-board ; the onion to be cut np 
on the plate. When the soup is made and put on to boil, each girl is to 
make the paste for the roly-poly pudding in her bowl with two ounces of 
flour, two teaspoonfuls of dripping ; then turn the paste-board and roll the 
paste on the clean side. A very full teaspoon of jam is then to be put 
into each pudding, &c. 



CONTENTS. 



PAOB 

Tabulation of the Cookeby Scheme for Day Schools . . yii 

'Directions* for the Practical Carrying -out of the Scheme . ix 

Method of Testing the Day School Scheme .... xxvi 

Tabulation of the Cookery Scheme for Evening Schools . , xxix 

* Directions * for the Practical Carrying-out of the Scheme for 

Evening Schools xxxi 



An Abstract of the Subjects of each Lesson, The first fourteen, 
have been selected for the course of instruction given in the 
Cookery Schejne for Day Schools, and ten for the Scheme for 
Evening Schools. 

lesson PAOB 

1. Kitchen arrangements and utensils suitable for a cottage. Be- 

quisites in a kitchen-maid or cook. Directions how to lay and 
light a fire. Effect of good and bad air. Explain the use of 
a damper, and how oven flues should be cleaned ... 1 

2. Cleaning wooden utensils, dinner and tea service, glass, mincing 

machine 14 

3. Cleaning tin and iron utensils, knives and forks, copper, brass, 

and metal ware, sink 17 

4. Bread-making, yeast, and weighing 21 

5. Bread-baking, buns, teacakes, currant loaf . . . .26 

6. Heat to be used in cooking . . ' 30 

7. Boasting. Best method of beating an egg . . . .36 

8. Foods called * Body-warmers ' and * Flesh-formers ' . . .41 

9. Pastry, clarifying dripping . 46 

10. Foods, called * Mineral Foods * 51 

11. Frying 56 

12. Cookery for sick people, who are not allowed to take solid foods 59 

13. Cookery for invalids, recovering from illness, allowed to take 

solid foods 64 

14. Soup and stock 69 

15. Feasoup, cleaning and trussing poultry. This lesson is also to 

teach the proper method by which meat should be boiled, so 
that all the juices can be kept in the meat . . . .76 

16. Sheep's head broth and pickling 78 

17. Foods, salted meat, &c. Drying herbs 82 

18. Lecture on diet, warmth and clothing 88 

19. Lecture on brewer's yeast, German yeast, plants called Fun©., 

and fermentation » . ^^JV 



Sjcstoh of Saiotart Schema of thb Ijsbdb ^caocsi. ^Bokb» . 



^ -jS^rCi. 



ILLUSTRATIONS. 



CooxE&r Cttpboabd and its Contents. {From Photograph) Frontispiece. 
Cottage Eange, pbotided -with eyebt contenience, and ak 

* EOONOMISBR ' FOB SAYING COAL AND LaBOUB • • . . Iy 

The Special Class making Bbead ad 

The Special Class making the Dough into Loaybs fob 
Baking ziii 

Kitchen G-bate and Oyen, wttk Flues and Dampbb . to face 7 

COOKEBY CUPBOABD, BEING OPENED TO SHOW HOW THREE TaBLBS 

ABE MADE BY THE LOWEB DOOBS .... tO foce 21 

CooKEBY Lesson. Gibls at Wobk. {From Photograph) . ,, 36 

FIO. 

1. The Yeast Plant 28 

2. Stand, with component paAts of 1 lb. of Floub . . .24 

3. Textubb of Cloth 94 

4. A FiBBE of Wool 95 

5. A FiBBE OF Linen 96 

€, A FiBBE OF Cotton 96 

7. A Human Haib 97 



PEEFACE. 



When public money is used, an account should be rendered to the 
public of how it is spent. I have therefore thought it well to 
publish the following Scheme of Cookery, which, as the only lady 
member of the Leeds School Board, I have drawn up on behalf of 
my colleagues and myself. The aim of this Scheme was to induce 
a love of cleanliness, personal neatness, and order ; to give practical 
instruction ; and to oflfer every aid to the girls and their parents to 
practise the lessons thus taught them, in their own homes. In 
order to accomplish this, printed receipts easy to read were pre- 
sented to the girls, to prevent their taking home illegible ones 
written down during the delivery of the lesson, when their atten- 
tion ought to be given to observing all that the cook ia doing. It 
has been found that the interest of the parents is much aroused by 
their being able to purchase at cost price small portions of the 
provisions which their children have helped to prepare. 

The food collection, diagrams, <&c., make the instruction easy 
and popular. Printed questions, answered at home, draw attention 
to the most important facts in the lesson, and are read aloud at the 
commencement of the lesson. Each girl is to provide herself with 
a writing-book, into which the teacher gums both the printed 
receipts and the questions. The teacher also requests the pupil to 
give an account of any attempt at home cookery made during the 
intervening fortnight. This book may prove of great value through 
life, and serve as a testimonial for those girls who desire to enter 
domestic service. The lessons are given fortnightly, and last for 
one hour and a half, the course consisting of seventeen lessons, ex- 
tending over one year. As forty hours are allowed during the year 
by the Code for * Lessons on Food and its Preparation,' the cook 
may divide any of the seventeen lectures that she finds too long, 
and repeat twice those that are difficult. Girls attending School 
Board classes of cookery may have the great advantage of being 
able to attend them for two or three years. Lessons in cooking 
ought to follow instruction in the * Laws of Health,' information on 
the structure of the human body, and the kinds of food necessary 
to preserve it in health. I cannot but hope that such instruction 
as I gave to our boys and girls during play hours ^ may ere long be 
systematically taught by a paid teacher in our Board Schools ; in 
which case the one set of models and complete apparatus^ used h-^ 
me when giving the lectures in * Health in t\i'& ia.Q»\w^^^ ^Qi^$s.>afe 

* IfeaWt in (he Souse, LongmBna, dxecn., ^ Co. 



zlviii PREFACE, 

sufficient. Our experience during the last ten months shows that 
the best teacher of cookery is an intelligent person who has been 
trained to cook, who thoroughly understands a kitchen-maid's 
work, and is ready to impart information drawn up for her, as in 
the following lessons. 

I beg to draw the attention of my readers to the fact that, 
though in Leeds eight cookery centres will soon be provided, in no 
case is any special building to be erected, nor is any room expressly 
set apart for the purpose. The instruction is given once a fortnight 
in a class-room. 

On page 11 a full statement is furnished of the cost incurred by 
the fitting up of each centre. It is not, I think, much to be re- 
gretted that we have no special rooms or kitchens, because the 
great care necessary to preserve cleanliness, neatness, and order in 
BO small a space will teach lessons that must be learnt if a working- 
man's home, which, alas ! sometimes consists of only one room, is 
to be kept in order and comfortable. It must be remembered that 
Board Schools are happily compelled to receive the poorest of the 
population, the class above all others that need instruction and help. 

A movable gas-stove is used in our Board Schools, so placed 
that the cook can stand behind it, and face her large class ; but in 
a village cooking school, where gas is not to be had, an open 
kitchen-range would do, provided it were fitted up with a recon 
and the other conveniences provided by the gas-stove. 

Ventilation being so very important where gas is used, every 
care has been taken in our Leeds schools to secure a free circulation 
of air through the cupboards in which the utensils and stove are 
locked up. The class-room is lofty, well ventilated, has an open 
fireplace, and a window left open at the top. As the gas is burnt 
on the bunsen burner principle, the combustion is perfect. During 
the lesson, which only lasts for one hour and a half, the stove is 
placed near the open grate. Whenever a gas-stove is used in a 
living-room, a flue ought to be attached to the large hole at the 
back of the oven, and carried into the chimney. Every one should 
be made to understand how one gas-light uses as much fresh air as 
a man requires. I have lately heard of a large cooking-house in 
the west end of London, where between sixty and eighty gas- 
burners were alight without any flue to carry oflf the bad air ! No 
wonder the poor cook complained of being giddy and ready to fall 
down, and looked pale and ill. Her mistress said she could not 
think what was the matter with her. 

In conclusion, I have to offer my warmest thanks to Dr. 
Chambers for the information and tables I found in his most 
valuable book on * Diet in Health and Disease,' of which, by hia 
permission, I have made very liberal use. 

The lectures on Clothing and Diet, Yeast and Fermentation, 
added at the end, do not belong to the course of seventeen lectures, 
but contain information bearing on Foods and Cookery. 



FOOD AND HOME COOKERY. 



FIRST LESSON. 

K1TCHBI7 ABBANOEMENTS FOB A COTTAGE — BEQUISITES IK A KITCHEN MAID 
OB COOK — DIBBCnONS ABOUT HOW TO LAY AND LIOHT A FIBE, AND 
CLEAN THE GBATE AND OYEN FLX7ES. 

These cooking lessons which yoa are going to attend will, I 
hope, not only teach yon how to cook, but how you may take 
care of your homes, give your father, brothers and sisters, 
comfortable meals, and nurse your mother or any member of 
your family when sick. I think you will be surprised to see 
how many things we manage to keep in that comer of the 
room where the cupboard stands. As this room is used every 
day as a class-room, except when it is given up to us for our 
cooking lessons, we are obliged to make the most of every 
little bit of space, be very clean, and have a place for every- 
thing, and keep everything in its place, so that all shall be 
neat when the children come next day. 

We manage, you see, just as a good mother does who has 
only one room for cooking and living in. I will now open 
the cupboard doors and point out where everything is kept, 
so that you may either fetch them out or put them by. You 
will find that every utensil is just what you use at home, and 
the cheapest that could be bought good in the market. A 
cupboard like this would be very useful in a cottage, and 
very ornamental, because everything, e^en «» «^^<3Si. ^"^ ^^^^2^% 
however common^ looks pretty w\iei\ \t \^ c^awa. %sv^ ^^ ^ ^^ ^^ 
useful shape. We are obliged to laove doot^ \» \^^5«- ^^ '^ 



Ci^ 



2 FIRST LESSON. 

things, so that they may be all right when we come again. 
Doors would not be necessary in your houses. If you look 
on this large upper shelf you will see a row of brown jars, on 
which white pieces of paper have been pasted with the names 
written of what each jar contains. I bought them just large 
enough to hold what we shall nse in a month. Flonx, oat- 
meal, rice, <&c., ought not to be kept too long, or mites will 
grow in them. The jars have lids to keep out dust as well as 
mites. Soap is better for keeping, so I have cut some np 
into pieces, and put them in that box which stands on the 
top of the shelf, lest it should cause the cupboard to have an 
unpleasant smell. I cannot now name all the utensils and 
foods ; in time you will know them all. A list of everything 
is written on this piece of paper, which is pasted on the 
inside of the door. Meat, butter, milk ought not to be kept 
in such a place as this; they should stand in a cool plao9, 
through which a good draught of fresh air is constantly 
passing. Meat, if bought very fresh, and of the best quality^ 
can be kept several days in snch a larder, even in the emm- 
mer, if it is washed well directly the butcher brings it, wiped 
very dry^ and hung up in the draught; it should also be 
wiped carefully every day with a clean cloth. Green vege- 
tables and potatoes should lie on a clean dry stone floor, 
where frost cannot come to kill them. You must examine 
the little sink and wooden rack, as it is called, just above it, 
where we put the plates to dry without wiping them, so that 
they may have a bright poHsh. When our saucepans are 
clean and very dry^ we put them, without their lids, on to 
these wooden rails, with their faces down, so that fresh air 
can get into them and keep them sweet. Cooks often pnt 
their saucepans down on a flat shelf, so that no air can 
enter ; the cleanest sancepan in which food has been cooked 
smells fusty if left with its lid on or placed in the way I have 
just mentioned. 

Nearly all the saucepans we use are iron, without any 

paint on the outside or tinning inside. These pans are much 

cheaper than any other kind, becanse they are so strong that 

i^e^ will last for a gre&t many years, and \i ^cnsJoloed with 

CaIois saad look better every year 'because t^ey )o©caTaft ^^Va 



SAUCEPANS. 3 

polished. It is true that if a careless cook puts them by 
damp, the iron rust does not look nice, bnt it is not in the least 
unwholesome, the worst thing it can do is to make potatoes 
boiled without their skins look dark. An excellent cook, who 
had lived a great many years in a house where every kind of 
pan was kept, told me her favourite pans were two ii*on ones. 
A French cook in Paris, who had a kitchen full of bright 
copper pans, told me the same thing. Saucepans that are 
generally used are tinned inside ; now these pans are light 
and soon wear out, and the tinning often contains lead 
which poisons any food allowed to stand and get cold in 
them. Should the cook only half fill one of these pans and 
leave it on the fire to boil, the tin comes off the sides and runs 
down to the bottom in lumps. After a time it all comes ofi*, 
and the pan is then used untinned if the person is poor. 
Enamelled pans that look as if they were lined with white 
china, though they appear so clean, may contain substances 
that, like lead, poison the food if allowed to grow cold in them. 
For this reason large manufacturers, like Messrs. Kenrick, 
of Birmingham, and others, have their pans examined by a 
good chemist, who is then able to tell the public that there 
is nothing poisonous in their enamel. Brass and copper 
pans, which last for generations, are dangerous because a 
poison called verdigris forms when the food in them grows 
cold. Do you not think it is wisest to buy iron saucepans, 
which are the cheapest, can poison no one, and last for a great 
many years ? Every kind of pan is safe when used by a good 
clean cook, but unfortunately cooks are often ignorant and 
not clean. Nearly all our iron pans have bright lids. Some 
are to have long handles, and some have Ups with round 
handles, so that the contents can be easily poured out and 
the pan hung on a recon.^ A pan should never be put down 
flat on to a fire when it contains food. In country villages 
the cottage fireplaces generally have a recon. I went into 
one near Scarborough, and there I found both a recon and 

^ A recon is a hook which can be raised or lowered by putting it into 
the holes in a piece of iron that is attached to ^ «ml^!gal^^i«t \^^^\v^^^» 
the side of the fireplace. A recon somedixiQa otxV^ ccyaa\»Xa c»l ^ ^s^ircM?¥a% 
bar, on wbicb bang some large and smaUex 'h.ooVLs. 

* b2 



4 F1B8T LE880V. 

an iron pan,' and every fireplace oaght to have one, or a 
brig* apon which a pan can rest. 

Though we are obliged to cook by a gas stove, it is madi^ 
80 that we can roast meat in front of the fire as you do ai 
home ; it has an oven like yours to bake in, a recon, and a& 
iron brig. If coals are used, nothing, I think, is so g^ood at 
our open fireplaces. Some say that they also bum less coali 
than closed grates called kitcheners. 

1 will now pull the gas-stove out of the cupboard. As it is 
placed on rollers it comes out very easily ; we will put it so 
that I can easily get behind it if necessary and face you aH 
Here are all the things I said our stove possessed, reoon, brig,. 
and oven. You can cook, as I have just said, quite as well 
by your own fires as by this large stove. Now that I have 
shown you our little kitchen, I should like to tell you how I 
think a little kitchen-maid or cook may manage to be dean 
and tidy all day long, though she has to light fires, sweep 
and clean the floors, and do other dirty work. You cannot 
be good cooks unless you are very clean and tidy. She 
should get up early, wash herself thoroughly, plait her hair 
neatly, and put it up so very firmly that it will remain tidy 
the whole day. Do not use coloured ribbons, as they soon 
get dirty ; wear good thick shoes, an apron with a bib, and a 
dress with sleeves that can be made short; do not have the 
skirt long. While cleaning the fires or sweeping, cover the 
hair with a clean duster, or, better still, a cotton hood. A per- 
son who does all this will be well repaid for her trouble, because 
by simply washing her hands, when they are dirty, she wiD 
look nice and respectable to the end of the day. You must 
always come to these lessons with neat hair and clean hands. 
You will always find towels and soap ready where you hang- 
your cloaks. Remember a cook's nails must also be very 
clean ; by pressing the nails into the soap, and then taking 
the soap out by a nail on the other hand, you can keep your 
hands clean without a brush. Never forget to push the skin 

' ThiB iron pan was bought of Messrs. Waters and Woodhouse^ Scar- 
borough. 

^ A brig consists of two or three iron bars, sometimes fSeurtenad by 
YangeB to the side of the grate, or free, bo that tibsy caii \>« igkUoed mcqm- 
^e dre when required. 



down gently at the bottom of the nails with the towel every 
morning, and then yon will never snffer from those sore little 
bits of skin called ^ stepmother's blessings ; ' onr nails grow a 
little every day, and if the skin grows fast to them the nail 
tears the skin in trying to get free and grow. Directly yonr 
hands begin to chap, buy a small bottle of glycerine, rub 
some of it over your hands just before you go to bed, and 
tben put some flour over them. In the morning you will 
find that they feel smooth and comfortable. You must do 
this before your hands get sore. 

A cook and her kitchen may be very clean, but still the 
food she cooks will not be clean and wholesome unless the 
air that fills the kitchen is also very pure and clean. The air 
that we breathe, and that fills the room, enters all the food 
that is in the room ; if the fresh air outside cannot get in, the 
room soon becomes filled with the poisonous air that comes 
out of our mouths every instant, called ca/rhomc acid gas. 
This bottle is filled with this gas. If any living animal or 
human being could be put into that air, they would instantly 
die, and a lighted candle would go out directly. We cannot 
live in air where a candle will not bum. 

[Here show how a burning candle goes aid,'] 

Our bodies are wearing out every instant ; the parts that 
wear out and die pass out of our mouths and through onr 
skin in perspiration. 

The bad air when it comes out of our mouths is hot, and 
is so light that it goes up to the top of the room, like the 
steam that comes out of the spout of a tea-kettle. Look at the 
steam coming out of that kettle, and watch if it does not go 
up. Now if you want to make bad air go out of the room, 
you must open the top of the window and out it will fly ; it is 
better not to open the bottom of the window until you leave 
the room, because the cold wind that would come in might 
give you cold. Fortunately we take fresh air into our mouths 
every instant, which gives us health and makes our blood pure 
and warm. This wonderful gas that is in fresh air ,which 
makes us warm is called oxygen gas. Here is a little bc^^^ 
filled with oxygen gas, and tiiough it "kaa no \a»\» n<st ^tasS^^ 
a will make a tiny spark of Toieat \>T)M.t Vxxfeo ^ VoX. '^saasisb - 



6 FIRST LESSON. 

fire. If we cannot get this air every instant, we first 
and then we die and become as cold as marble. You see this 
piece of black stuff which looks like coal ; it is called carbon. 
I will make a comer of this piece of carbon red hot by holding 
it in the flame of this candle. Now I will pnt this tiny spark 
of heat into this bottle of oxygen gas. Jnst see how the tiny 
spark has burst into a bright flame and made the bottle very 
hot The carbon and oxygen which were in the bottle joined 
together and made the light and heat. There is a great 
deal of carbon in coal, wood, paper, and everything that will 
bnm. The reason we put wood and paper nnder the coal is 
because they contain carbon and bum much more quickly 
than coal, and set fire to the coal ; a fire will not bum well in 
a room unless it is fxdl of fresh air, and the paper and wood 
will not burn unless a great deal of oxygen gas can get into 
the grate between the paper, wood, and coal. I will lay a 
fire with these pieces of paper, wood, and coal in this grate, so 
that no air can get between them, and then you will see thai 
I shall not be able to make even the wood and paper bnm. 

The grate was used yesterday, and is full of cinders and 
ashes. I will not take them out, but do everything as an igno<« 
rant person would do who was going to lay a fire ; put the 
pieces of paper flat on the top of them, and then the pieces of 
wood flat on the paper, and the coal flat over them on the 
top. Now we will put a light to the paper ; it will only bnm on 
the outside edge, but it will not bum under the wood and set 
fire to it. I might try all day, and for ever, but neither the 
wood, paper, nor coal would bum because I have not placed 
the paper, wood, and coal so that oxygen can get in between 
them. A great many people try to make fires in this way, 
and wonder why they will not bum. I will now lay a fire 
properly; the first thing I shall do is to clear out all the ashes 
and cinders, so that air can get through these open bars at the 
bottom of the grate, made on purpose to let in air. I must jnst 
put a few cinders on the bars, or the paper would lie quite 
flat. I shall use the same paper we had before, only I will 
crumple it up gently, so that some air can get between the 
folds of the p&per. Now I will put the pieoea of wood one 
aaraas the other like basketwork, bo t\iat ^ere '^t^ \)« 'Wia^ 



LIGHTING A FIRE. 7 

between the wood for air to get in, and now I will put some 
fresh coal and a few big cinders over the paper and wood. I 
need not be afraid of putting a good deal, if I do not put the 
pieces down flat. You will find that this fire will burn up 
beautifully ; we will now separate the cinders from the ashes. 
The ash is a soft powdery substance, and contains some 
mineral substances, like the iron in the grate, that will not 
bum, only put the fire out, therefore* the ashes must always 
be thrown away into the ashpit ; but the cinders must be put 
on the fire, as they contain a great deal of carbon, and will 
bum and make a hot fire ; too much paper puts the fire out, 
as it contains hard substances that will not bum, like iron. 
It is wasteful and wicked to throw cinders into the ashpit. 
I am afraid cinders are often wasted in this way. Ignorant 
people sometimes waste their time in trying to make ashes 
bum, but they might just as well try to make the iron bars 
of the grate bum and take fire. 

Di/rections about the Use of a Damper and the 

Cleanvng of Oven Fhiea. 

A great deal of food, as well as time, is often wasted because 
people do not understand how to manage or regulate the 
heat of an oven and clean the oven flues. I hope by means 
of this coloured picture of a common kitchen grate and oven, 
to teach you how to do this. Of course you have all seen 
your mothers push hot coals under the oven from the kitchen 
fire through a hole at the side of the oven, when they wanted 
to make it hot for baking bread or any food. You can see 
the hole in this picture marked h, the red-hot coals lying 
under the oven, and flames of fire coming from them passing 
up the side and over the top of the oven into a chinmey at 
the back of the oven, which is hidden, but dots are drawn 
to show where it is. This small chimney is called a flue, 
and makes the back of the oven hot. In the picture you can 
also see the flames passing up this flue from the hot coals 
until they come to a hole in the side of the kitchen chirnxj^^ss^ ^ 
marked o, through which they pass \:0 \Qfai >^^ ^\s\s^^ \x^^-ai. 
the big Jdtcben fire, and fiy up m>i\i V\» wJt VoX*^ ^^ '^^'^ 



8 FIRST LESSON. 

air. You mnst particularlj notice in the picture tliat tlie 
coals under the oven are burning red and making^ no 
smoke; they do so because plenty of fresh air is entering 
by the hole at the side of the oren to feed the fire and 
flames. An oven such as we are looking at is a square iron 
box, placed or set in a bigger square box, so tha4i a space 
is left under the oven for a fire, and at the side and top for 
plenty of air and the flames to pass round. These plaoes are 
called flues. The fire and flames would die out directly if no 
fresh air could get into the bigger box, just as the flame of a 
candle would go out if put into a box or bottle that was 
covered up to keep out the air. A cook can put out the oven 
flames and fire by shutting this little door that is just above 
the oven in the flue, marked d. This door in the pictore is 
pulled out as far as it will come, so that the flames can 
escape into the kitchen chimney. This door is called a damper, 
and when pushed quite in reaches across the chimney and 
prevents any air from passing to the fire and round the oven. 
When a cook wishes to make the heat of the oven less, or 
damp it, she pushes the damper in a little way, so that there is 
less room in the chimney for air to pass through, and there- 
fore less heat is made and the oven grows cooler. By 
experience she learns how to manage the damper and make 
the oven just the heat she wishes. If the flues are not kept 
clean, soot of course would fill them and keep out the air. 
When the oven is no longer wanted for baking, the damper 
should be quite pushed in, and the little door shut at the 
side of the oven through which the hot coals are sent. In 
some ovens this hole is closed by putting a piece of iron oyer 
it, called an end-iron. When this door and the damper are 
left open the kitchen fire will often not bum bright, because 
the fresh air in the kitchen rushes in round the oven and np 
through the open flue instead of going into the kitchen fire to 
mix with the coals and fan the flames. 

I must now tell you how to clean the little chimneys or 

flues round the oven, and the flue behind the oven, because 

they ought to be cleaned once a week, particularly in cottage 

honses, as these Bnea are often made very n^xror??. The most 

diBIcnlt £ae to clean ia the one at the \)ack. ^hexe ^<& ^Ass^^ec 



CLEANING OVEN FLUBS. 9 

is. The damper must, of course, be pulled out before you 
begin to clean, or you could not get anything to pass down 
to the bottom under the oven where the fire will be. If a 
brush is used it must be very long and narrow like a bottle- 
brush, and have a long bent handle so that the brush can be 
put through the hole at the side of the kitchen chimney, and 
be pulled up and down by the handle. An old servant of 
mine who has a nice cottage home, says she cleans this flue 
by a long chain tied to a stick. She puts the chain through 
the hole at the side of the grate and pulls it up and down 
by the handle, and finds she can send the chain into all the 
comers, as well as hear when it touches the bottom. The 
soot falls, of course, where the hot coals will lie under the 
oven, and must be raked together and sent out through the 
hole that goes into the kitchen fire. An old toasting fork 
with a string and a weight at one end, surrounded by straw, 
does very well. 

The flue at the top of the oven is cleaned by pushing a 
stick or iron rake through a little door in front of the oven, 
marked s. Now we have to clean the side flue farthest from 
the fire. There is a hole on the top or at the side of the oven 
through which an iron can be put to clean this part. A woman 
told me the other day that while cleaning this flue the iron 
fell down and she never expected to see it again, but to her 
surprise she raked it out when she was removing the ashes 
and cinders from under the oven ; these ought always to be 
cleaned out every morning when the grate is cleaned, and 
before the kitchen fire is lighted. 

I will now show you a real oven and grate in a kitchen 
belonging to the school-keeper's house, and then I hope you 
will understand all I have said. 

I wish you would all save your pennies by putting them 
into a penny bank until you. have saved enough money to 
buy a complete set of under clothes, cotton dresses, shoes, and 
all that you would require to keep yourselves neat, either at 
home or in service. I have a list oi «i\ ^JcL'sea "Okcw^^*^^ 
price and pattema of the cheapest ma^iensAa, «i."& ^^Cs.?k»»*v^^ ^^^"^^ 
terns of the heat shapes in paper to Ae^i^ ^o^n «^^^^'^ "^^^ "^ 



10 FIBST LESSON. 

each of these articles which I have had made, so that jou might 
see how nice they look. The French girls, even the poorest, 
possess, by the time they go out, a large stock of nnder- 
clothing; they consider it a disgrace to have a torn petticoat 
and poor shoes and stockings. I think the plain strong shoes 
I have chosen are far the best. Laced boots or button boots 
take a long time to fasten, and boots with elastic are very 
bad indeed, because the elastic soon wears 'out, and then they 
look very slatternly ; unless a person has tidy feet she cannot 
look nice, however good her clothes may be. I hope soon to 
see every girl in our Board Schools at Leeds devoting her 
sewing hours to preparing such an outfit, instead of employ- 
ing her time in making small doll specimens for the annual 
examination by the Government Inspector. 

Things required for First Lecture, 

Bottle of carbonic acid gas. 

Bottle of oxygen gas. 

Piece of charcoal, called carbon, fastened to a wire, to put into the 

oxygen. 
Large piece of charcoal. 
A candle. 
Kettle with boiling water to show how steam or hot air goes up to the 

top of the room. 
No. 9 Sheet. — Carbonic acid gas. 
No. 10 Sheet. — Oxygen gas. 

Grirls to copy the names of these two gases. 

Questions^ for First Lesson. 

1. How do you think a kitchen-maid or cook could dress, so that she 
might keep herself neat and respectable all day in the midst of 
her work? 



* Printed copies of Questions are placed in the hands of the children 
after every lecture. Answers to these questions are brought by the chil- 
dren at their next lesson, the following week, in their stiff-cover exercise 
books, sufficiently large for their answers over the whole course ; and are 
examined and marked by the Instructress, and returned to the school for 
the children the following day. The marks are cast up and small prizes 
are awarded at the end of the year. 

Printed copies of the receipts are also given to Xihe g«\B «ka \i)cL«^ ^^qkva 
^ t/ie fourth and subsequent lectures, aud axe -^^a^^d, mXo >i3tL^ «x«k5v»^ 



OUTFIT. 11 

^ How would yon lay a fire bo that it would bom up quickly wHeii 

you wanted to light it? 
8. B^ore laying the fire what would you do with the cinders and ashet 

left in the grate ? Would ashes bum if you were to throw them 

on the fire? 

4. Why do the flames made by the burning coals that are poked under 

the oven fly up the side and over the top, and up into the kitchen 
chimney directly the little door called a damper is pulled out, and 
why do the flames and the heat in the hot coals die out when the 
damper is shut or quite pushed in ? 

5. How would you lake out the ashes and cinders that are pushed 

under the oven from the fire, and how would you clean out the 
soot that collects in the side, the top of the oven, and the small 
chimney through which the fiames paBs into the brick kitchen 
chimney ? Why must the oven shelf which takes out be well 
scrubbed with sand like a saucepan? 



The following is the sample outfit recommended to the girls in the 
lecture, with the price and quantity of material required for eaeh 
article : — 

£ 8, d. 
Dress, 7 yards at 5^d. per yard . . . .082^ 

Lining 8J 

Buttons 004 

Tucker . 2^ 

Best twill piping, ^ yard at 1«. per yard . . .008 

Total cost of dress . . . .£0 4 



One Woollen skirting 2 

„ Flannel petticoat, 2^ yards at lUd, per yard .024 

„ Band got off calico 

„ Chemise, 2;^ yard at S\d, per yard . . .008^ 

„ Drawers, If yard at S\d, per yard . . .006 

„ Flannel vest, 1^ yards at 1«. ^d. per yard . .017^ 

„ Apron with bib, fiax or harding {5d.) . . .006 

„ Holland apron, } yard at 7^. per yard . .006 

„ Hood, 1 yard of print and piping cord . . .006 

„ Stays . j^ 2 6 

„ pair of Stdckixigs, woollen 16 

„ „ Shoes, hand-made 6 6 

^1 3 *i 



books along with the questions. In this "W«^ «b t^^i^ «sv^ ^^reco^asawc^ 
record of the complete course of instcuctioii \a igtofiaj^^^^ ^^sSsx-^oc^S^^s^ 
reference bj ber in future yeaxB. 



12 



HBST LESSON. 



The following is a detailed enumeration of the Cookeiy Apparatas with 
tout of first ontfit for one centre : — 

One cooking stoYe, with two ovens, and roasting fireplace, £ ». d, 

complete with all necessary fittings 14 

Cost of cnpboajrd 8 

£22 

In addition there is cost of bringing to class-room water and gas, fitting 
up of sink lined with lead, and repairs to room, varying &om 61. to 101., 
according to arrangement of room, &c. The sink pipe is disconnected and 
discharges outside over a golly trap. Fresh air is admitted through a 
grate placed under the rack under sink for the saucepans to dry. and ia 
fhown in the frontispiece. 

Dimensions of Cupboard, 
From floor to top 7 feet 

Width for store 4 feet 9 inches ") « -^x » ;„«v^ 
„ for sink 2 feet 6 inches ) = 7 feet 8 mches. 

Three shelves 22 inches broad. 

Tables 2 feet 4 inches broad, 8 feet 6 inches long, 2 feet 4 inches high. 

The class-room should furnish 16 feet from the fireplace to the gallery. 

Case for components of foods, Messrs. Illingworth, Ingham, and Co., WeUing^ton 
Street, Leeds. 

Cooking stove and fittings, C. Wilson, Carlton Works, Woodhouse Lane, Leeds. 

Cookery cupboard, without sink, pipes, or fixing, 8/., James Wood, St. Colum- 
bia Street, Lee«ls. 

Fiymometer (only a thermometer that goes up to 600° in a case), 8». 6€2L, 
Messrs. Harvey and Reynolds, Commercial Street, Leeds. 

Component parts of food, Messrs. Harvey and Reynolds, Leeds. 

Iron pans, Messrs. J. and J. Siddons, Birmingham, or through any good iron- 
monger. 

Thermometer, Negretti & Zambra, London, or C. Wilson, Woodhouse Lane, Leeds. 

lAst of Utensils, Apparatus, Sfc, at each Cemtrefor Cookery Instructioru 
Suffictentfor a Practice Class of Ten Oirls, 



1. One cooking stove. 

2. „ soup pan. 

3. Three iron saucepans. 

4. One steamer and pan. 



hastener. 

porridge pan. 

gridiron. 

fr3nLng-pan. 

iron kettle. 

bottle jack. 

wheel, stand, and hooks. 

strainer. 

colander. 

dredgmg box. 

pepper ^x. 

grater. 

bread tin. 

dripping tin. 

19. Two Yorkshire pudding tins. 

20. Six iron spoons. 

21. Ten metal teaspoons. 
gP, J^oar metal forks, 

% jEjg-ht deasort ijiivea. 
Six large table inivet. 



6. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 



»» 
»> 

91 

91 
19 
ft 

if 
i> 



»» 

91 

99 

J1 



25. Two forks. 

26. One knife box. 

27. Two tin bowls. 

28. One zinc paiL 

29. Four bakmg sheets. 

30. One set of skewers. 

31. „ tray. 

32. „ coffee-pot. 

33. Scales and weights. 
84. One basting spoon. 



11 

91 



19 



toasting fork, 
candlestick, 
fire basket, 
pair of scissors, 
coal rake. 



35. 
36. 
87. 
38. 
39. 

40. Six paste-boards. 

41. Ten rolling-pins. 

42. One wooden bowl. 

43. „ potato crasher. 

44. „ knife board. 

45. Four wooden spoons. 

46. One balung B<^\\A\ft. 

47. Five acTu\>V>Vue\iraiSki«a. 

48. Two \]>Vac;k\ea)a\>i:uiibj». 



OUTFIT. 



18 



49. 
50. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
54. 
65. 
66. 
67. 
68. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
66. 
66. 
67. 
68. 
69. 
70. 
71. 
72. 

73. 



74. 
75. 

76. 
77. 
78. 
79. 
80. 
81. 
82. 
83. 
84. 



One hand brush. 
„ soap box. 
„ roller for towels. 
Two meat dishes. 
Six dinner plates. 
Two milk jngs. 
One salt-cellar. 
Ten yellow basins. 
Two larger yellow basins. 
Twelve jars for groceries. 
Two tumblers. 
One glass sugar basin. 
Twelve pie dishes. [teapot. 

Ten teacups, three saucers, and 
One China teacup and saucer, 
flower vase. 
„ pan. 
bread „ 
pint mug. 
half-pint mug. 
Two stew pots. 
One invalid's cup. 
}* egg cup. 

„ mindnff machine (one only 
required for all the centres). 
One infant's feeding bottle, with- 
out tube (one on^ required for 
the ten centres). 
One boiling thermometer. 
„ bottle brush, to represent flue 
brush. 
One box of tapers and holder. 
Flannel and wash leather. 
Two pudding cloths. 
Six tea clotmi. 
Six dish cloths. 
Four oven cloths. 
Two roller towels. 
One dinner napkin, 
large slate. 



»» 

»» 

if 



>* 



85. Ten cookery aprons. 

86. Four bottles for herbs, &c 

87. One holland bag, for pieces of 

string, dec. 

88. Half-quire of cooking paper. 

89. Four sheets of brown paper to 

cover tables. 

90. One drawing of yeast plant. 

91. „ drawing of starch celL 

92. „ drawing of oven flues and 
grate. 

93. 1 lb. loaf sugar. 

94. 1 lb. moist sugar. 
96. 1 lb. whole rice. 

96. 1 lb. ground rice. 

97. i lb. lentils (Egyptian). 

98. 1 lb. oatmeal. 

99. 1 lb. pearl barley. 

100. 1 lb. currants. 

101. 1 lb. raisins. 

102. ^ lb. tea. 

103. 1 lb. straight maccaroni 

104. 1 lb. bran. 

106. ^ lb. cocoa (a packet). 

106. 2 oz. mustard. 

107. 2 oz. pepper. 

108. Two nutmegs. 

109. Onejar of salt. 

110. 7 lbs. flour (seconds). 

111. 1 oz. dried mint. 

112. 1 oz. dried si^e. 

113. 1 lb. sand (suver). 

114. 2 lbs. suda. 
116. One Bath-brick. 

116. ^ lb. of the whitest flour. 

117. J lb. arrowroot. 

118. i lb. candied peel. 

119. i lb. canister of coffee. 

120. omallpacket of gelatine. 

121. 4 oz. of carbonate of soda. 



Teaching Apparatiis, 

List of the above, 

1. Drawing of yeast plant. | 3. Coloured drawing of oven 

2. Drawing of starch cell. | flues, and grate. 
Component parte of foods, in stoppered bottles, provided at each of the 

centres, 2/. 15s. 

List and Prices, 
d. 



Componente of Beer 
„ Flour 

Beef 
Tea 



» 



8. 

4 
6 
8 
8 



8, 

8 

7 
7 
4 



d, 
6 

6 
6 



6 Components of Cocoa . 

„ Milk . 

6 „ Potato . 

6 „ Egg . 

The gas stove bums about 100 feet of gas per hour when every burner 
is alight. The average quantity burnt at each lesson, which lB.&t& ^<^^ \.nei^ 
hours, is 100 feet, and costs 3<?., because goifi \» ^d. ^es \^^ l^^\.\\y^Vjfc'e^A. 

The cooked foods are readily boxigb-t \>7 \]i[ie <i\i\\^«ii.,«t Vj '«»^'^:P'"^^ 
come some distance to Bchool, at about t\ie coaXi ^Trv^c» olNjaft ^^»^"^^ • 
weekly Iobb on the food for the ten lessoiia dc«va noV ex^^ifceo- ^*. 



14 BIOOND LEB80B. 



SECOND LESSON. 

CLEANING. 

un or oooxsBT xnnrsiLs to bb wabhmd at tkb 

Wooden UtetutU, — Table tops, pasteboard, roUing-piii, 

spoons, and bowls. 
China, — Dinner plates, dishes, and milk jogs. 
Tea-things, tiay, glass, meat-mincing machine, and iron kettle. 

I HAYE written the names of the kitchen ntensils we 
going to clean to-day on the large slate over the mantel- 
piece. A cooking ntensil means anything that will hold food, 
snch as a basin ; or anything npon which we prepare food, 
snch as the top of the table ; or anything that helps ns to 
prepare food, snch as a rolling-pin or mincing machine. 

For cleaning all these things we only use plenty of hot 
and cold water, a scrubbing-bmsh, and some Calais sand that 
costs abont 2d, per ponnd (a ponnd lasts a long time). Our 
dishcloths, tea-cloths, and dnsters are all made of the same 
material, harding, which only costs 6d, per yard ; three quar- 
ters of a yard makes a towel. We never nse soap to olean 
any kind of cookiDg utensil. I hope yon will never do so ; 
becaase though soap is a very good thing to take away dirt 
from our hands and clothes, it is a very nasty thing to eat. 
Now, when soap is used to wash a table top or any sort of 
cooking utensil, it is almost impossible to wash it all off so 
completely that not a bit shall remain in any comer. Wood 
sucks up a great deal of water and the soap too that is in 
the water; if you make paste or chop parsley, &c, on the 
wood, the soap will surely come off and get into the food. 
We use soda instead of soap. Soda, like soap, is very fond 
of grease and sucks it all up directly it touches it. We always 
put some soda into the water in which we wash tea-things, 
or any utensil that has contained milk, or any kind of food, 
because there is some grease in every food, though we cannot 
e^e it 



CLEANING GOOEINa UTENSILg. 15 

Soda would take off gold, but none of our cliina has any 
gold, I am glad to say; if it had we should have to use a little 
soap. 

Directly we have used a dishcloth, pudding-cloth, or any 
cloth, we wash it in clean hot soda and water, rinse it well 
with plenty of cold water, and then pull it out straight and 
hang it out to dry, so that every part of the cloth can get 
plenty of fresh air or oxygen gas. Oxygen gas makes every- 
thing pure and sweet. You know how much sweeter clean 
clothes smell that have been hung out to dry in fresh air than 
those which have been dried in the house. You must re- 
member that unless every utensil a cook uses is perfectly 
clean and sweet, the food that has been cooked in it will not 
be wholesome or taste nice. I have seen a dirty cook in a 
good house wash all her plates, dishes, and dishcloth in only 
one water, without rinsing them at all. 

Now here you will have to wash everything in at least 
two waters, and be taught that nothing can be clean unless it 
has been well rinsed in clean water. 

As there are twenty girls, I have arranged five separate 
places at each of which four girls will stand and do their work. 
You will each clean one wooden utensil, one or two china plates 
belonging to a dinner-service, some china that belongs to a 
tea-service, also an utensil that has held milk. When you 
have been taught how to clean one wooden utensil you will 
know how every wooden utensil should be cleaned. If you 
know how to clean a china plate you will understand how to 
clean a whole dinner-service; if you can clean a cup and 
saucer you will know how to clean glass and all that belongs 
to a tea-service, because glass is cleaned in the same way. 
If you can clean any utensil that has held milk you will know 
how to keep every dairy utensil sweet and clean. 

All our wooden utensils are cleaned as follows : — About 
a tablespoonful of crushed soda is put into the hot or cold 
water that is to be used, to wet the table-top, pasteboard, 
rolHng-pin, or whatever the utensil may be ; some Calais sand 
must then be sprinkled all over the table^ ^.TiA >i}a!eviw ^'cxxii^"<^^ 
well with a scrubbing-brush. Aiter ^\va ^o^ ol ^i>a» HaS^^^^s^s^ 
been well washed and rinsed, e^ery "Vsv^i oi ^e»s^^ "'^^ 



IG SECOND LESSON. 

remoyed, the wood will look white and be so sweet that any 
food can be prepared npon it. 

We wash a dinner-service in the following way: — ^First put 
about a tablespoonful of crashed soda into a tin bowl, ponr 
boiling water over it, put in a dirty plate, wash it well with 
a very clean and sweet dishcloth, and then put it into another 
tin bowl of hot or cold water. Should you have no second 
bowl, hold the plates one after another under the tap, put 
them into a rack like ours (which is over the sink), or let 
them rest one against another until they are dry ; yon will 
then find they have a beautiful bright polish. Never wipe a 
dinner-plate, or it will look greasy and not clean and bright. 

The tea-things must be washed in soda and water as hot 
as the hand can bear, and washed by the hand, particularly 
round the outside where we drink ; they should then be well 
rinsed in cold water and wiped dry with a clean cloth. Glass 
is washed in the same way, and wiped dry and rubbed nntil 
it is very bright. The commonest plate, cup, or glass is an 
ornament to a room when it is perfectly clean. 

Now about milk jugs. Every utensil or feeding bottle 
that has held milk requires to be most carefully washed. 
Directly the milk is taken out boiling water should be ponred 
in and allowed to stand in it for at least five minutes. Little 
germs that float in the air are very fond of milk, and get into 
it, feed upon it, and turn it sour. These little germs are too 
small to be seen by the naked eye. A thousand of them can 
live in a single drop of water or milk. They like warm or 
cold water, but water that quite boils at 212^ kills them 
directly. Now this is the reason why I said that, the boiling 
water must stand a few minutes in the jug so thaiC it may kill 
any germs that are in the corners. Babies who drink sour 
milk die of bowel complaints, because these little living germs 
in the sour milk get into their blood and poison it. 

At the end of the lesson you shall watch and see how 

I clean a mincing machine and a feeding bottle. Every part of 

a mincing machine must be taken to pieces when it is cleaned, 

and it must be cleaned directly it has been used ; if the least 

morsel of old meat is left in a little comer «5X ^Al^ ixo&h. feed 

TFz/l be quite spoiled. The best feeding \>o\X\e \a VN» «^&(> 



CLEANING METAL UTENSILS. 17 

fashioned one, like this, that has a short teat oyer the mouth 
when the infant sucks. This teat can be taken off find put 
into boiling water, and the bottle can have a nttle soda and 
boiling water poured into it. It is impossible to clean a 
feeding bottle with a long pipe, because boiling water cannot 
get inside the pipe and into every corner to kill the germs 
that live in milk. 

Directions. — Questions to be read aloud before the lesson. 

Each girl should find her place and work arranged. 

One table ought to be kept quite free to receive each utensil when it is 
cleaned. 

All dirty utensils are to be sorted and kept quite distinct in one part of 
the room. 

Questions for Second Lesson. 

1. How would you clean milk-jugs, basins, or any utensils in which 

milk has been kept ? 

2. How would you wash dinner plates and dishes that had no gold 

upon them, so that they should have a bright polish ? 

3. How would you wash tea-things which have no gold, and glass? 

4. What is the cheapest and sweetest way of cleaning table-tops, paste- 

boards, rolling-pins, and all wooden utensils ? "Why ought a cook 
never to use soap ? 



THIRD LESSON. 

CLEANING'-^fontinued, 

Tin and iron u^enfifo.-^aucepans and lids, gridirons, spoons, 
dripping pans, cake-tins, oven-shelves, colanders, tin milking 
pans, flour dredgers. 

Clean sink, brass tap. 

Knives and forks, brass and copper pans, and tea-kettles. 

Meted ware, — Spoons and forks. 

We will read over the list of the utensils we are going to 
clean to-daj. Tin and iron utensils are all cleaned with hot 
water, soda, and Calais sand; soap a\iow\3L Tkesj^-c \5fe ^^r.^. 
Copper and brass pans and kettles are ^^eoasi^ ^^\j^H5aa ^^^^ 
materi&b that are used in poliBbing "kuWes^^^^^^^^^ ^ 

c 



18 THIBD LESSON. 

brick and a leather. German silver ntensils are made brigbt 
by whitening and a leather. One of onr pans is new ; I will 
show you what mnst be dono to it before it can be used. I 
shall fill tlio pan with cold water, then put in two tablespoon- 
fuls of bran and hang the pan on the recon, or place it 
where it can gradually come up to boiling point, then let 
the bran and water simmer for two hours ; the inside of the 
pan will by that time have become beautifully smooth and 
ready for use. Some cooks have a dirty habit of letting sonp or 
the water in which meat has been boiled remain in their pans ; 
this water should never be wasted or thrown away, but poured 
directly, before it is cold, into a perfectly clean jar and kept 
until the next day, to be used as soup or broth. If any kind 
of food remains in a brass or copper pan, a poison forms, called 
verdigris, and whole families have been poisoned by eating 
this food ; it is even dangerous to allow food to remain in 
saucepans that are tinned inside, because lead is sometimes 
mixed with the tin, and the lead mixes with the cold food and 
forms a poisonous substance. 

Before you begin to clean anything I wish to show you 
why it is necessary to clean the outside of all saucepans as 
well as the inside. Saucepans often get covered with soot, 
and so become dirty and make the cook dirty too. Soot also 
prevents the heat of the fire from passing quickly through 
the pan into the water or food. The water in a kettle that is 
clean on the outside boils more quickly than one covered with 
soot. I will prove this by putting some soot over the centre 
of my hand and a small boiling tea-kettle on the top of it. 
You will find I shall be able to hold the boiling kettle there 
for a minute, because the soot will not let the heat in the 
kettle pass through into my hand. I hope yon will not try 
this little experiment yourselves, because it requires great 
care and my kettle is very small and light ; I could not hold a 
large, heavy one. 

We will now wash the inside of the pans. Pour boiling 

water into them, with a little soda ; if there is any burnt fat 

at the bottom you must rub it off with a small piece of flannel 

and Calais sand; never scratch it off viW^v "^omt xAalft as 

fome little kitcbeii'maidB do, and bo wear t\iBa "naS^a ^otNiriVA 



CLEANING PANS AND SINKS, 19 



9 



the quick. Now you mnst wash the outside, and then put 
the pan under the tap and rinse it well both inside and out ; 
do not wipe it, only turn it down and place it over these 
rails, where plenty of air can enter it. The lids must be 
washed, just as we washed the pans, in hot water and soda, 
and then rinse them well under the tap. Do not wipe them, 
only hang them upon a hook or nail, and you will find that 
when they are dry they will not only be very clean, but have 
a bright polish. 

A sink should be very carefully cleaned with a scrubbing 
brush, hot water, and soda ; you must remember that the 
opening through which the water runs goes into the large 
drain, and that a short way down the pipe there is a little 
bend which holds about a cupful of water. The water in 
this cup gets quite bad and impure if bits are allowed to go 
down through the hole into the pipe. The first thing to be 
done, therefore, is to collect all the little bits on the sink, put 
them into a basin with all the potato, parings and any tops of 
vegetables there may be, and neatly throw them on to the hot 
ashes under the grate. Cover them over the top with the hot 
ashes, so that the heat from them may burn the bits. By the 
time you have washed up, and want to make up the fire and 
clean the hearth, these bits will not smell when you throw 
them with the cinders on to the back of the fire, but will bum 
like cinders. People should never keep a swill-tub unless they 
have an outhouse. If a wooden tub is used for washing up 
it ought to be put in fresh air, and not under the sink ; tin 
bowls are the best for washing up in, as the grease does not 
sink into them as it does into wood. I sometimes see dish- 
cloths, and brushes, and pots put under the sink ; but that is 
not the place for them. Living germs, that are always floating 
in the air, though we cannot see them, settle in anything that 
is damp or greasy, and make it smell fusty, and cause a mould 
to grow. Mould is a collection of living germs. 

We are now going to clean knives. If great care is not 
taken in washing knives and forks, the handles come off". Cash- 
less cooks will put the handles into looiXm^ -^^X.^t ^>a»-^Fi^^'s^ 
the blades; the blades only shoTiVd \>e 7^\aGe^VTL^\^^^*^^^^ 
water and soda, just deep eno\igb. to co^et ^t^aft \3v^ii^^% 

o2 



20 THIRD LESSON. 

handles should afterwards be dipped into some clean warm 
water and be well wiped. When the knives have been made 
bright on a knifeboard, the handles should be nicely wiped, so 
that all dast is removed ; nothing is more disagreeable than a 
dusty or dirty knife-handle. Coffee pans and kettles should 
be washed inside and out with soda and water as the knives 
are, and then be polished on the outside with a piece of 
leather and Bath brick powdered very fine. German silver 
utensils should be well washed with plenty of hot water and 
soda, and polished with leather and whitening. A very good 
cleaner uses very little whitening, Bath brick, or any polishing 
powder, as it gets into the corners and makes the utensil look 
dirty instead of clean. 

It will be seen by the list given of the utensils at each centre that it is 
impossible to have a sufficient supply of dirty utensils for twenty girls to 
clean. The cook rubs a little grease inside the cleaned part and some soot 
on the outside if she has not a sufficient number. 

Required — A .small kettle of boiling water. 

Questions for Third Lesson. 

1. All the following cooking utensils are cleaned in the same way : — 

Iron and tin saucepans, gridirons, dripping pans, cake tins, oven 
shelves, iron spoons, colanders, tin milking pans, saucepan lids, and 
flour dredgers. Describe how you would clean them. 

2. Why must the outside as well as the inside of a saucepan always be 

cleaned ? 

3. How ought a sink to be cleaned ? Where must any bits of food be 

put ? Why is it very unhealthy to keep a swill tub under a sink, 
or in any living room ? 

4. How would you make knives and forks quite clean, and afterwazds 

give them a bright polish, and prevent the handles from being 
dusty? When you know how to clean and polish knives yon will 
know how to polish brass and copper pans and kettles, as they 
are cleaned with the same materials. 



BREAD-MASING. 21 



FOURTH LESSOK 

COOKEBY. 

Bread Making, — The use of scales, and how to measure certain 
quantities by kitchen utensils instead of scales — Dough to be 
baked into cakes and bought by the girls. 

This is our first lesson in which we begin to cook food. Yon 
must remember that it is only by practice that yon can learn 
to do anything perfectly. It is impossible for yon to get 
sufficient practice at school to make yon perfect ; this practice 
I hope yon will get in yonr homes, as all the foods prepared 
here onght to be eaten in every family, if the members of the 
family are to be strong and healthy. In order to help yon to 
practise at home, receipts will be given yon of what yon have 
cooked, so that your parents may understand them and 
provide you with all you require for cooking. I hope you 
will always answer the questions, which are to be given you 
after each fresh lesson. 

Whenever you have been able to practise at home any of 
the cleaning or cooking taught at the class, give a &ithful 
account of how you succeeded, or if you failed in your at- 
tempts. I can assure you that such answers will be read with 
the greatest interest by the Members of the Leeds School 
Board. The food yon cook during your lesson is to be 
divided into portions that will be sold to you at the end of the 
lesson for 1(2., 2(2., and Zd, I told yon at the last lesson on 
cleaning that at your lesson after this one, yon would make 
bread and buns, so that to-day you can tell me whether you 
would like to buy any. I shall by this means know how much 
bread to make, and how many buns will be required. There 
will then be no waste and you will have more practice. 

I recommend you to try and keep a cheap little basket like 
this, which costs only 2d. K a piece of felt, such as this, 
which is half-a-yard, is doubled and wrapped round the 
basin the food it contains will be kg^\» mo^^ ^^^^ ^^a3t\s^^>QW 



I 



2'2 FOURTH LESSON. 

cause felt will not let the heat escape. Felt is very cheap — 
Is, 2d. a yard. A quarter of a yard will be enough. 

Let us now read what is written on the slate over the 
mantelpiece, and then you will know what we are going to 

learn to-day Bread-making — Yeast — Weighing. 

Head also what is said about clean hands and nails. I see 
your hands are very nice indeed. We will now make the 
dough, and while it is rising I will give you some information 
about yeast, flour, and weighing. In each of the ten bowls 
that are placed round the table there are 6 oz. of flour, and in 
the piece of brown paper by each basin there is ^ oz., rather 
less than half a teaspoonful, of brewer's yeast or - German 
yeast (the same quantity is required of either kind). Make 
a little hole in the middle of the flour (not quite to the bot- 
tom, or the china is seen, and the yeast would stick to it) ; 
sprinkle a very little salt round the dry flour, put the yeast 
into the cup or mug by your side, and mix a tablespoonful 
and a half of the water that is placed in the two jugs on the 
table. First feel the water with your fiuger, and if it is luke- 
warm, like new milk, it is the right heat. Watch what I do 
and then copy me. Mix the water and yeast together, then 
pour it into the hole just a little at a time, so that you can 
mix the water and flour together gradually until it has all been 
made into dough. Now knead the dough well, and keep turn- 
ing the outer edges into the middle ; it is almost impossible to 
knead dough too much. When none of the dough sticks to 
your fists, you may give up kneading. Cover the top of the 
basin with a clean cloth and put it near the fire, but not so 
near as on the fender, where there is a draught. After about 
an hour the top of the dough will begin to separate and look 
like honeycomb ; it will then be ready to make into a loaf and 
put into the oven to bake. Cooks often let the dough stand 
until it separates a second time on the top, when the weather 
is not very hot. Dough sucks in air, just as a sponge sucks 
in water. The air in this room, which has entered the doagh, 
is pure because our windows are open at the top and the room 
is sweet and clean. Bakehouses are often filthy places, and 
the bread will also be very dirty, though, it \o6ka «XV t\^V» \jci 
^Ae eje. At the next iesson the ten youngea\. ^'V^ ^^ 




TEAST. 23 

make the same quantity of dough. The quarter of a pound 
of flour will make a little roll that we mean to sell for a 
halfpenny ; it would be a penny at the shops. A quarter of 
a pound just makes a tea-cake. Kow the dough is rising. 

Yeast is a most wonderful substance. Every cook ought to 
know its history ; some of you may know it. Lest there should 
be any here who do not, I must describe it as shortly as I can. 
German and brewer's yeast are the same substances ; the only 
difference between them is that the German -_ . 

is dried and comes from Holland, and the 
brewer's is fresh and is bought at any brewery 
in Leeds. Yeast is a plant, and looks like a 
little bag when seen through a magnifying 
glass. You may fancy how tiny it is when 
30,000 will only cover a square inch; no 
wonder we cannot see them, though the air Yeast Plant 
is full of them. In this picture you can see 
them. They grow one out of another like the soap bubbles 
that yon blow out of a pipe. In one teaspoonful of brewer's 
yeast there will be several thousand little yeast plants. They 
cannot grow without food ; they grow very quickly on sugar 
and water ; and while they are growing they make a great 
deal of air, which we call carbonic acid gas. When the yeast 
is mixed up in the flour it feeds on the sugar there is in the 
flour, and fills the dough with air bubbles, that lift (or rise, 
as we say) every part of the dough. When the yeast plant 
has eaten up all the sugar it can find in the flour or dough, 
the dough becomes sour. In the winter the dough can be 
allowed to rise twice, but in the summer once is enough and 
then the dough should be baked. The little yeast plant is 
quite still and will not work in cold weather. Boiling water 
kills it, but warm water, such as you mixed with it, makes it 
grow very quickly. You must look through the little window 
in the oven door. Directly the dough is put in you will see 
how the little plant enjoys the heat and grows so fast that 
the top of the dough rises and swells up. In about five or 
ten minutes the poor little thing will b^ V^fe^\y5 ^OaaV^a^^s^- 
the ov^D, which to bake bread Y^eW oml^\» V,o \>^ ^vs^ ^gce»i^^ 
boiling water, and it will then cea»© \o ^oT^^— ^^^^^'^^^^^'^ 



24 



FOURTH LESSON. 



too, or the bread would be fall of air-holes. Yon shall be 
taaght how to bake bread in the lesson after next. The yeast 
plant is like a tiny little egg which is spoiled if it is cmshed. 
Cooks can keep the yeast plant aliyo by feeding it on sugar in 
the summer time when it is scarce. Jnst look at the brewer's 
yeast in that jng, how it is growing and working. If yon 
were to pnt it into a bottle and cork it up, it would soon 
push the cork out and send it flying to the other side of the 
room, or it wonld burst the bottle. This dried yeast is also 
working away because it has found something to feed on in 
the warm water. 

I will now tell yon which kind of flour is the most 
nourishing and the best to buy, and mention the names of 
some of the principal things flour contains ; they are clearly 
written down on the sheet on the wall : — 

' Albumen makes our flesh, nerves, and mnscles. 

* Starch only makes our fat. 

' Phosphorus, lime, and gelatine. These three things are 
the only substances that will make our bones hard and 
strong.' 



Fio. 3. 



(4. » 




yHBBPlllgPlilt.- 



Body"\Va7'mer.s Water Flesli Fonaens Minerals.^ 



q«nnmiia 



ma 



Components f 1 pound o/ Flour. 



The bottles which are placed on this stand contam the 

water and the quantity of each of the principal substances 

that could be taken out of one pound of flour. We will 

examine them. Here is albumen or gluten, that makes onr 

£esb, muscles, and neryes ; here is the bVotc^^^a.^ -maJKBa wa 

i^^/ the lime, phosphorus^ and gelatine w\iic\i m«^^ oTa\icjiiSA 



BEST AND SECONDS FLOUR. 25 

grow strong and hard. All children (except babies) who 
have cut all their teeth should eat a great deal of bread daily, 
because it will make their bones grow hard. If a child's bones 
are not quite hard before it is seven years old, they will never 
be strong, and its legs will be crooked and weak. 

The starch in flour is exactly the same starch your mothers 
use to stififen your fathers* shirt collars and fronts. I wish 
you to notice that starch is a very white substance. The 
whitest and dearest of flour, called best, costs 2^d. per pound ; 
this flour is chiefly starch, and though the bread that is made 
of it looks very white it is not very nourishing, because the 
starch only makes fat. Albumen, phosphorus, gelatine, iron, 
and lime, which feed our muscles and nerves, and make our 
bones strong, are dark-coloured substances, and make the flour 
less white. This darker flour is called seconds, and costs only 
2d, per pound. You can see the diflerence in their colour, as 
I have some of each kind in these two bottles. I hope you 
will always buy seconds, because it is not only more nourish- 
ing, but it has a sweeter flavour. Flour is the most nourishing 
of all vegetables; flour is a vegetable food because it comes 
from wheat that grew in the ground. Every food that has 
grown in the ground is called a vegetable. You must remem- 
ber this fact, or you will not understand what I shall tell you 
during the cookery lessons about the diflerent kinds of food. 

I shall begin the next lesson by showing you how to 
weigh out the exact quantity of flour and yeast you require 
for the dough. 

There are sixteen ounces in a pound, eight ounces in half a 
pound, and four ounces in a quarter of a pound. Every pound of 
flour requires about half a pint of water ^ to mix it into dough of 
the right stiflhess, and half an ounce of yeast to make it rise, and 
a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. You must always put the 
salt in when the flour is quite dry. All families do not possess 
a pair of scales, but a cook can manage without them if she 
takes the trouble to find basins, mugs, and spoons that 
hold certain quantities. For instance, this basin exaw^tVi VsissJsSi^ 
a pound of flour, this basiix "ha\i ^ i^cyoixi^, «a.^ *'^^^=^ ^^^^^^ 

' Good flour requires more N?a\.ftt \;Xxwv\>^ ^^^• 



*^ 



26 FIFTH LESSON. 

quarter. This jug holds one pint, and this small mng half a 
pint. A tablespoon holds one ounce. 

Articles required. 

No. 4 Sheet.— Clean hands, &c. 
No. 6 Sheet. — Principal component parts of bread. 
Food collection of component parts of one pound of floor. 
No. 1 Sheet. — Picture of yeast plant. 
Samples of the whitest flour. 
„ of tlie seconds flour. 
German and brewer's yeast, in two tumblers. 
Kettle of boiling water. Pour some of the water into one of the tmnblers 

of ye^ist, to prove that the yeast plant is killed by that degree of heat. 

Pour a little tepid water into the other tumbler, to show how that 

heat makes the plant ^row. 

Questions for Fourth Lesson, 

1. How would you know when your dough had risen enough before 

putting it into the oven to bake ? Why ought bread to be made in 
a clean room filled with good air ? 

2. Every kind of food that grows in the ground is called a ' vagotable.' 

Is flour a * vegetable ' ? 

3. There are two kinds of flour. One kind is very white, the other is 

not so white, and is called * seconds.' In which kind of flour do 
we flnd the most of the following things : — Albumen, that makes 
our flesh, muscles, and nerves ; starch, that makes our fat ; lime, 
phosphorus, and gelatine, which are the only three things which 
make our bones grow strong and hard ? 

4. How can you tell the yeast plant ? 

Receipt for Fourth Lesson. 

Bread Cakes.— 6 oz. of flour or 6 tablespoonfuls, \ oz. or half a tea- 
spoonful of German yeast, a pinch of salt, about two tablespoonfuls of 
either water or milk just lukewarm, then let it rise for \ hour, and bake 
\ hour. 



FIFTH LESSON. 

COOKEEY— continued, 

USE OF THEBMOMETBB — BBBAS-BAKING — TBACAXE8, BUNS, BEBD . 

AND CT7BBANT CAKE. 

As jonr lesson only lasts for an hour and a half, it is not 
possible to teach you bow to make bread aT\d\iaN^ \.o\Mikft\\» 
i o^e lesson. I have, therefore, brongViti a smaW c^tAjA,^ oi 



USE OP THE THEBMOMETEB. 27 

dough which I made at home, that is nearly ready for baking. 
I kept it as warm as possible in my little basket with this 
piece of felt ; still, for fear that the little yeast plant may have 
been chilled by being carried through the cold air, I will cover 
the basin over with a clean cloth and place it on a chair near 
the fire, where there will be sufficient warmth to make the 
yeast grow. 

While the yeast plant is working I will try and explain to 
you the use of the thermometer which I hold in ray hand. 
By this instrument we can find out how many degrees of 
heat there are in the water or food when it is being boiled 
on the fire, or how many degrees of heat the oven contains. 
You see we measure heat by degrees, not by pounds or ounces, 
as we measure flour and food. If we apply too much heat or 
hot air to food we bum it ; and if we apply too little, the food 
is not cooked enough. Bakers in Paris and Vienna, where 
the best bread in the world is made, have thermometers in 
their ovens which tell them exactly how much heat the oven 
contains. The air in an oven^ ought to be at 410° of heat when 
the dough is put in. We have a thermometer in each of our 
oven doors. The thermometer I have in my hand is for 
putting into water or any food. It is, you see, a long glass tube 
with figures on it, the bottom figure is 1° and the top 500°. 
Between each figure there are little dark lines ; the space 
between these lines is called a degree. At the bottom of the 
pipe there is a glass ball filled with a white substance called 
quicksilver, because it looks like silver and moves very quickly 
directly any heat touches it. My hand is warm. I will, 
therefore, put it over the ball of quicksilver, and you will see 
how the heat from my hand will get into the quicksilver and 
make it warm, cause it to swell, and rise up very quickly 
through the pipe. When the quicksilver stops I shall look 
at the figure on the dark line opposite to which it stops, and 
then I shall know how hot my blood is, or how many de- 
grees of heat it contains. 

We will look at the thermometer on the oven door. The 
ball with the quicksilver is placed ineida VJti'ek q^^vv^^c^ Sh^'aS^ 
the hot air in the oven can touch it. T\ie^ \\V<Aa ^"W^^^^^^ ^^ 
qaicksilver ba8 risen up, you see, to AilO"* ^ «uxA VJiasx^^ ^ ^ 



28 FIFTH LESSON. 

We must now pnt our doagh in directly, or the oyeji will 
get hotter and spoil onr bread. Before we pnt it in I most 
teach yon how to find out the heat of the oven for baking 
bread without a thermometer, as very few ovens possess 
one, I am sorry to say. I shall sprinkle this pinch c^ flour 
on the bottom of the oven ; if it becomes a nice brown oolonr 
in a minute, the oven would be just the right heat ; bat if 
the flour turns black, the oven is too hot, and if it does not 
become a nice brown, then there will not be heat enough to 
bake the bread. You see this flour has browned very nicely 
in a minute. I wonder whether you would put the bread on 
the top or the bottom shelf of the oven. As the air is the 
hottest at the top, the dough would be quite spoiled if yon 
put it there, because the heat would £ei11 down on the top of 
the dough and bake the top so hard that the dough would not 
rise. At the end of ten minutes you will find by looking 
through this glass window that the heat in the hottom shelf 
has entered the bottom of the dough, made the yeast plant 
grow, the starch cells in the flour swell, and sent the water 
which was in the dough out through the holes we pricked 
with a fork on the top of the dough. Water weighs very 
heavy, and, if not driven out, would make the bread when 
baked very heavy ; dishonest bakers know this, and put their 
loaves on the top shelf first to harden the top crust and pre- 
vent the water from getting out, and so get more money, as 
they sell the loaves by weight. Directly a loaf of bread is 
taken out of the oven it should either be placed down on its 
side or on the top crust, so that the water or steam that stiU 
remains can get out at the bottom of the loaf, which is not so 
hard as the crust. As the loaf we have just put into the oven 
is only a small one, it must be put on the top shelf in ten 
minutes. A pound loaf should remain a rather longer time. 

We are now going to make some currant buns, seed birns, 
and teacakes. To make all these we must have four pounds 
of flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, four ounces of dripping, one 
eggy German yeast ^ ounce, half a pint of milk, which must 
be lukewarm, a small teaspoonful of carraway seeds, a 
quarter of a pound (or four tablespooninXBk) oi crarwai\&,icw« 
oances of sugar. Currants ouglit to "be very cowMi^ ^«^[^fi^ 



CURRANT BUNS. 



29 



as they are very dirty, and have little bits of stone which 
might break the teeth ; they must also be very dry before 
they are put into the flour, or the water if left in will make 
the cakes heavy. I should wash raisins, dates, figs, and all 
dried fruits, because they often contain mites, and are very 
dirty. Cooks wash a pound of currants or more at a time, 
and put them when clean and d/ry into the jar, so that they 
may be ready when they are wanted. I have divided one 
pound into ten portions, so that ten girls can learn how to 
wash them at this lesson, and ten at the next. They must be 
washed in two cold waters, then made as dry as possible, and 
put by the fire. Now eight girls shall have half a pound of 
flour. The salt must first be sprinkled into the dry flour, 
then the dripping be rubbed in, and sugar and currants or 
seeds added ; the e^^ ought to be broken into a basin first, 
to see whether it is a good one. After it has been well beaten, 
the yeast and milk should be added, and all mixed gradually 
with the flour until a smooth paste is made, which must be 
well kneaded and allowed to rise for twenty minutes ; the 
cake should then be made into either buns, teacakes, or cur- 
rant loaf, and put on a tin. Before the cakes are put to 
bake in the oven, they must stand before the fire to rise again 
for a few minutes. The tins in which the loaf or teacakes 
are baked must first have a little dripping rubbed in them to 
prevent the cake from sticking to the sides. 

Beqnired — ^A thermometer. 



BREAD, BUNS, TEACAKES. 



Monday , 


Cost 


8, d, 
. 1 


Tuesday 
Wednesday , 
Thursday 
JFriday 




. 1 
. 1 
. 1 
. 1 

5 



Sold. 



8. d. 



Monday 


. 1 


Tuesday 


. 1 


Wednesday . . 


. 1 


Thursday . 


. 1 


Friday 


. 1 




6 




5. d. 


• . 


. 5 




, ^ ^ 



Money expenses 
Money received 

3o\ight and Bold for one week ; the foUomiig "SiiftftV >iJcv^ ^«kv^. "S£w?«^ ^^^ 
had a penny ban, which just coveTed t\ie expeiia© cA \Xve ^cjvst% ^'^^^^'» 



30 SIXTH LESSON. 

milk. They were reiy much -larger than those sold in the shopn. In the 
second week of bread-making, we put in for a change currants, seeds, and 
one egg, with a little lard. These buns were also sold for a penny each. 

Questions for Fifth Lesson. 

1. ITow would you find out when an oven was the right heat for baking 

bread if you had no tJiormometer ? 

2. Why will a loaf of bread be sad or heavy if it is first put on the top 

shelf in an oven, instead of being first put for about ten minntes 
on tlie bottom 8h<'lf ? 

3. How would you make a bun or tencake with or without currants, 

also a seed or currant loaf? 

Beceipts for Fifth Lesson. 

CuBRAirr Buns, Seed Buns or Thacakbs. — 2 lbs. of flour, J a tea- 
spoonful of salt, 2 oz. of dripping, 1 egg ; German yeast ^ oz. ; half pint 
of milk (lukewarm) ; small teaspoonful of carraway seed or 3 oz. of cur- 
rants ; 3 oz. of sugar. 

The currants should be very carefully washed and dried. 

Bock Buns. — Melt in a basin 3 oz. of butter or dripping (do not make 
it too hot), stir in 1 lb. of flour, \ lb. sugar (3 oz. of currants or an ounce of 
seeds, which you like best), 1 oz. of candied peel. Whisk 2 eggs to a froth, 
mix \ pint of milk with the eggs, then work the whole together and bake 
in a moderate oven. 



SIXTH LESSON, 

CO OKEB Y— continued. 

BOIL AND POACH AN BGG — GBILL A HX7TT0N CHOP OB BEEF £TBAX— 

BOIL POTATOES — BOQ SANDWICHES. 

To-DAY you are to learn how to cook an egg in its fiheU, and 
how to poach one, so that the white part shall be soft and 
well done, without a clock to tell you how many minutes 
these eggs have been in the water; how to grill a mutton 
chop on a gridiron so that none of the flavouring matter, 
called osmazome, shall escape, or any of the gravy or juices 
J7ZJ7 out; and how to boil some potatoes. 

^^^ ^^S"^ ^^^ mutton chop are "botli ammaY ioo^»> wA V^cka 



BOILING WATER. 31 

potato is a vegetable food. There are some people who think 
that they only take animal food when they eat beef, mutton, 
pork, poultry, game, or fish, but they also eat and drink 
animal foods when they take eggs, milk, butter, cream, 
cheese, dripping, suet, lard, cod-liver oil, because all these 
foods are taken from animals, and are therefore animal foods. 
There are also persons who think that they only take vege- 
tables when they eat potatoes, cabbages, or any green stuff 
that grows in a garden ; but a vegetable is anything that 
grows in the earth, such as com (which is ground into flour 
and made into bread), oatmeal, rice, sugar, &c. When you 
have been taught how to cook one kind of animal food you 
will soon learn by practice how to cook all animal foods ; and 
when you have learned how to cook a potato you will soon 
learn in the same way how to cook every kind of vegetable. 
The great art of cooking is not to let any of the good things 
that each food contains get out and be wasted during the cook- 
ing, and to make the food tender, so that our teeth can chop 
it up. Before we cook an egg we will find out what the 
principal things are which an egg contains by examining the 
contents of these bottles that are placed in this stand. Albu- 
men, &c. 

As these substances are dried you must not expect to find 
that they will have the same colour as they would if they 
were in the fresh food, or be as large in quantity ; the most 
important substance is albumen, because it nourishes our 
nerves, flesh, and muscles. It is made hard and indigestible 
for delicate stomachs when cooked in boiling water. Water 
boils when the quicksilver in the thermometer rises to 212°, as 
I will prove to you by putting this thermometer into a kettle 
of boiling water. You know that a kettle is boiling when the 
steam pours out through the spout as it is now doing. If we 
were to let the kettle boil a little longer, all the water would 
be changed into steam and fly up the chimney, and the kettle 
would be left empty and bum. Remember that all foods 
when they really boil at 212° are being changed into steatn. 
and fly up the chimney. The FrencTa. i^^o^'b ^t^ V>aa\se^ ^kx>s^ 
moBt economical cooks in the ^or\d \ A;\ift ^T^^.Xe^^^a^'^^^^'e^'^^^ 
girl ia taught by her mistress ia to cook e^exrj ^o^^ 5g,^\v^^ ^^ 



32 SIXTH LESSON. 

well. The English, are the most wasteful and worst cooks in 
the world, becanso thej do not understand anything about the 
nature of the food thej cook, and because they think that if a 
saucepan with food is put on the fire and boils away they have 
done all that is necessary. If you read what is written on . 
that sheet on the wall, you will learn at what degree of heat 
food should be cooked, which is about 180**. 

We will now put the thermometer into a kettle of boiling 
water. You see the quicksilver has risen to 212°, called 
boiling point. The quicksilver will never rise any higher in 
boiling water, because water cannot be made any hotter than 
boiling heat. We will now put the thermometer into this 
pan of water that is hanging on the hook, or recon, over the 
fire. You see the quicksilver rises and stands till opposite 
the figure 180°, that is called simmering heat, and is the 
right heat at which animal and vegetable foods should be 
cooked. Kow we will put the thermometer into this little 
pan of water that stands on the brig ; it is, you see, also at 
simmering heat, 180°. You would find that if you were to 
let a pan of water boil on the fire and then put it on the hob 
or on the top of your oven at home, the food in the pan 
would keep simmering at the right heat, 180°. Two or three 
pans with food can be safely cooking at the same time when 
they are put on the hob, or where the food will not boil and 
spoil. A cook need not then be in a fright or fuss lest her 
dinner should be spoiled, because she is not obliged to watch 
the saucepans every instant. I have seen a very large dinner 
beautifully cooked by a fireplace exactly like those in your 
houses, which had only a small open grate, an oven on one 
side, a small boiler on the other, and a recon over the fire on 
which a large saucepan with a round handle like ours could 
hang. The food in these pans was first boiled on the fire for 
about five minutes before the pans were put on the different 
places I have named to simmer. The cook began to prepare 
the dinner early, and therefore allowed nearly twice the time 
for cooking each food. 

Before we cook an egg I will show you a raw one, so that 
jTpn majr see how the albumen, or whit© pari, look« before it 
is cooked^ and then yon shall see a bard \>o\\eA. e^ VJoak. \«tf^ 



EGGS. — MUTTON CHOPS. 33 

been boiled for five mimites in boiling water, so that you may 
compare it with an egg that is properly cooked without being 
boiled at 212°. 

I will put this pan of water on the fire to boil. Directly it 
really boils I shall take the pan ofi*, and instantly put this fresh 
egg into the water, cover the pan with a lid to keep in the 
steam, and put the pan on the fender. When the egg has 
remained in the water for about five minutes, as far as I can 
guess, I shall take it out, because you remember we are not to 
look at a clock. A stale or a bad egg, like bad meat, cannot 
be made to look right, however you may cook it. As about 
five or six minutes have now passed, I will t»ake the egg out 
and just break the top for you to see how creamy and nice the 
white looks, and that it is just stifi* enough. The white part 
of an underdone egg looks slimy and disagreeable. 

We must also poach an egg in the same way, that is cook 
one without its shell. I have an egg all ready in this cup. 
Directly the water quite boils I will take the pan ofE the fire, 
slip the egg in, put on the lid, and let the pan stand for about 
five or six minutes on the fender, which is not quite cold ; a 
hob, recon, or brig would be too hot. An egg cannot be 
cooked in this way by guess, unless the saucepan has a lid to 
cover up the top and keep in the heat and steam. 

The mutton chop and potatoes we are going to cook are for 
a delicate person who has a poor appetite, and wants a very 
tempting little dinner that can easily be digested. If every- 
thing is not very hot, our little dinner will be spoiled. A 
mutton chop or beefsteak ought to be carried straight from 
the fire to the person who is to eat it ; the plates must there- 
fore be put where they can get hot, and we must get the 
tray ready, cover it with this little white cloth, see that the 
salt-cellar is clean and filled with clean salt, and that the 
tumbler is very bright, the water fresh, and everything as 
nice as it can possibly be. As a mutton chop will be cooked 
in a much shorter time than the potatoes, I put two pota- 
toes into this saucepan just before you all arrived, so that 
they might be ready when the chop waa doxift, 'S^'s&syt^ ^^^ 
cook the mutton chop I must te\i you \!kvafc tkoJOws^ ^s^ ^essixsis^ 
food and containa albumen and t\ie bool© wa^seX»sva^'^ "^^^^^ ^^^^^ 



oi SIXTH LESSON. 

to be found in an egg. I mast also remind yon that the great 
art of cooking is not to let any of the good things that each 
food contains get out and be wasted, and to make the food 
tender so that our teeth can chop it up. This fine ohop is full 
of juice and albumen. We must let the heat of the fire be so 
great that it will instantly harden the albumen that is on the 
outside of the meat so that the juices cannot run oat. The fire 
must be very hot and the coals all red, not black and smoky ; 
a black fire sends out too little heat to harden the albumen 
quickly, and the smoke that comes from it would make the 
chop taste of soot. Our gridiron, which is only a thick iron 
one, must be put on the fire to get warm before the chop is 
put on to it, or the raw meat would stick to the cold iron bars. 
Some cooks have a dirty habit of rubbing grease oyer the . 
bars, but you must never do this, only make them warm. We 
will now put the chop on the gridiron with a spoon and knife ; 
take care never to stick a fork into a chop or bee&teak, or 
the juices will run out of the holes made by the fork. A fine 
large chop will be well cooked in twelve minutes if it is 
turned every two minutes, and eighteen minutes if it is turned 
every minute ; a small chop will take about ten minutes if 
turned every two minutes; at the famous chop house at 
Bamsley the chops are turned every minute and take twenty 
minutes. A. chop when properly cooked in this way will be 
full of gravy and ought to be eaten with a hot potato and a 
little pepper and salt ; never put butter on a chop or gravy in 
the dish. If any of you would like to buy a chop next week, 
and two potatoes cooked in their skins, I could let you cook 
the chop and also prepare the potatoes yourselves ; the chop 
and potatoes will cost 4id, 

Now that our chop and potatoes are done, I will teach 
you how to wash potatoes and cook them. Potatoes and all 
vegetables must be washed in cold water, but not allowed 
to stand in it ; great care should be taken that all the dirt is 
got out of the holes; a clean old scrubbing brush takes it 
out best. Two potatoes were all we wanted to-day; never 
boil, as some careless cooks do, more than are wanted. Pota- 
^eff should always be boiled in their ekinB, \)qc».u«& \k<sce is a 
corkjr snbstaace in the skin of a potato vj^^ ^t«^«iAa wjcj 



CHOPS AND POTATOES. > 35 

water from entering the potato, and also prevents any of the 
juices and good things from getting out. The two potatoes 
must be the same size, because a large one would take more 
time to cook than a small one, and they would not be ready 
at the same time. They should be put into a pan of boiling 
water, and after they have boiled for about five minutes on 
the fire, the pan should hang on the recon and the potatoes 
cook until they are tender ; the potatoes should have plenty 
of room in the saucepan and be well covered over with 
water. 

I will now boil the two soft-boiled eggs I cooked at the 
beginning of the lesson, until they are hard, and then make 
sandwiches, as we must not waste them. Hard-boiled eggs 
make excellent sandwiches for people who have a strong 
digestion, prepared in the following way : cut some slices of 
bread and butter, chop up the white and yolk of the hard 
eggs into very small pieces, and add salt and pepper to taste ; 
when all is well mixed up spread the egg with a spoon over 
the bread and butter, and then put a slice of bread and butter 
over the minced egg. 

Egg sandwiches are very good and nourishing food for 
people who go long journeys, and for teachers to take as part 
of their lunch. 

Required for Lesson. 

Component parts of an egg. 

Sheet with the effect of heat on albumen and the proper heat for 

cooking. 
A thermometer. 
Kettle with boiling water. 
Pan with water at 180**. 



Questions for Sixth Lesson. 

1. How would you cook a fresh egg, or poach one, so that the white 

part (called albumen) should be soft and well done, if you had no 
clock to tell you how long the egg had remained in the water ? 

2. How would you cook a mutton chop or beefeteak oil tX^^ ^^caaw -^r^ 

that all the gravy and juices shouiVd "b^ V^^^ Va.^ ^sA 'Ocka -ss^^a^^^'^ 
tender and tempting for a delicate stomAi^'^ 
3, Sow would you boil a potato ox any N^e\A^)^.e*^ 

l> 2 



36 SEVENTH LESSON. 



Receiptfi for Sixth Lesson. 

How TO COOK AN Eoo WITHOUT BoiLiNo IT. — Lot a pan of warm water 
thoroughly boil. As the pan is lifted from the fire have an egg ready in 
the hand to put in, and instantly cover the pan to keep in the steam, place 
it on the warm fender and lt>t it remain for four or five minutes, when the 
cgO^ will be done. A ]X)aclie(l egg is done in exactly the same way. 

CiBiLL A. Mutton Chop or Bkkfsteak. — Place the chop on a clean 
warm gridiron, with a knife and spoon, so that no holes are made in the 
flesh to let out the gravy ; the gridiron must first 1>e warmed or the chop 
will stick to the bars ; the fire ought to be very bright and red, and the chop 
turned once every two minutes. A large chop takes twelve minntas and 
a thin one about ten. A beefsteak is cooked in the same way. 

Ego 8ANDWICHKS. — Boil an egg until it is quite hard, chop fine, add a 
little pepper aud salt to taste, cut two slices of bread and butter, pat the 
chopped egg on one slice and cover over with the other, then cut the 
slices into convenient sizes. 



SEVENTH LESSON. 

CO OKER Y— continued, 

ROAST BEEF — T0RK8HIBE PUDDING — CABBAGE OB CATTLIFLOWBB. 

Before we roast beef I must let yon look at the contents of 
these six bottles, which contain the principal substances to be 
found in one pound of beef — albumen, osmazome or flaYOnriDg 
matter, &c. 

We will now weigh the little joint, which is a piece of thin 
flank. As it weighs 1^ lb. it will take three quarters of an hoar 
to roast, because we allow nearly half an hour for each pound 
when there is a great deal of gristle and bone in the joint (a 
quarter of an hour is the usual time). People do not gene- 
rally consider this a good joint, nor many others that have a 
good deal of bone and gristle, but they would not think so if 
they had once eaten such joints when they had been well 
cooked. Our butcher tells me that it is quite sad to see how 
women come in a great fuss and ask foT BomeWim^ tlv&t can 
ifo cooked quickly before their Imfiband^ oom© \lotq&^ %5A 



ROAST BEEP. 37 

therefore cannot buy the good, cheap joints that should have 
been cooking for him for a very long time, so that they might 
be thoroughly done. A breast and shoulder of mutton ought to 
have the same time, and then they are excellent. Now that 
the meat has been weighed, we will wash it by dipping it into 
this pan of very hot water, and then dry it. All butcher's 
meat should be washed in the same way before it is cooked, 
because it often comes from a dirty slaughter-house and is car- 
ried in dirty carts or on the heads of butchers' boys. The meat 
is also sometimes wrapped in newspaper, and the newspaper 
sticks so fast to the meat that it cannot be all removed unless 
it is washed off. Newspaper is covered over with ink, which 
contains some poisonous substances, and therefore ought never 
to be used to wrap up or cover any kind of food. A friend of 
mine told me that he once had a calf's head for dinner upon 
which he found small pieces of newspaper. Butchers are 
sometimes injured by even handling diseased meat. Though 
some professed cooks will tell you never to wash meat, they 
do wash it themselves with the dripping with which they 
baste the joint while it is roasting. If the meat is boiled it 
is made clean by the water in which it is cooked. This 
water is kept and made into soup, for it should never be 
thrown away and wasted. 

Dripping ought to be very clean, as it is used for pastry, 
frying, &c., and a Yorkshire pudding is always placed under 
the meat to receive some of the dripping. Before we hang 
the joint in front of the fire we must see that our fire is 
bright and red, so that it will send out a great deal of heat to 
harden the albumen on the outside of the flesh, and so keep 
in all the juices, gravy, &o. The joint should be placed very 
near the fire for the first ten minutes, and then be removed 
to about a foot, with a screen put partly around it to prevent 
the cold air from carrying off the heat. I wish you particu- 
larly to notice that raw beef has none of the good odour or 
smell which comes out while it is roasting, fills the air of the 
kitchen, and makes your mouth water if you are very hungry. 
The substance that causes this peculiar od.o\>i Sa osi^fe^ <5{»fisw- 
zome : it is a very delicate BTibBtaiic©, \>^cwoLa^ Xi^o tqis^^^^^^ 
spoils it, and a certain quantity o£ \iea\, \^ Tiecfe^'s»'«n '^^'^^^^^ 



38 SBYENTH LISBON. 

it out. This flavonring matter helps people to digest their 
food. Roasting in the most wholesome way of cooking meat, 
because if it in properly done the outside of the meat can he 
hardened so that the jnices and osmazome cannot escape; 
and if a kitchen is well ventilated, has plenty of fresh air 
brought in from the top part of an open window, so that there 
will be no draught at the bottom of the room, the oxygen in 
the fresh air will constantly pass into and throngh the meat 
which is roasting, mix with any burnt fat on the outside, and 
change it so that it will not be unwholesome and indigestible 
when eaten. You see how important it is that a kitchen oven 
or any place where food is cooked should haye a good supply 
of fresh air. The fat on the outside of our joint is beginning 
to melt ; we must therefore baste it by pouring the melted 
fat or dripping over the meat. The hot fat will help to cook 
the meat, prevent the meat from burning, and keep in the 
juices, &c. 

It is now time we washed the cabbage. The outer leaves 
which do not look quite fresh must be taken off, a pieoe out 
off the stem, and two deep cuts made in the shape of a cross 
down into the heart of the leaves, so that the cold water 
and salt it is washed in can get among the leaves. The salt 
will kill any grubs, and they will fall out into the water. 
Children have had tapeworm from eating raw or unwashed 
greens. After the cabbage has remained in the water and 
salt for about five minutes it must be rinsed in another cold 
water or be held under the tap. We will not crush the cab- 
bage up in a small saucepan, but put it into one that is suflGi. 
ciently large, filled with boiling water and a little salt and 
soda to keep the green colour. The cover of the pan can be 
left on. When the pan with the cabbage has boiled about five 
minutes on the fire, it shall hang on the recon and remain 
there until the cabbage is quite tender. 

After the Yorkshire pudding has been made I will tell you 
why all vegetables grow bigger while they are being cooked. 
We do not cook our vegetables half long enough in England, 
and they are therefore considered indigestible foods. The 
French and Germans eat nearly double the quantity of vege- 
tables that the English people do, and they do not suffer as 



YOEKSHTRB PUDDING. — VEGETABLES. 39 

much as we do from stomacli complaints. When a vegetable 
is taken ont of the saucepan, it ought to have all the water 
squeezed out by being put into a basin called a colander, and 
a plate should be placed on the top to press your hands on 
to squeeze out the water. If a colander is not to be got, the 
cabbage can be put into a potato -steamer, with a plate on the 
top to press out the water. The water must be got out by 
some means. Take care never to throw the water in which a 
cabbage has been boiled down the sink, because the house will 
then be filled with a bad smell, which tells directly that the 
cook is a very careless person. Cabbage- water should be 
thrown on to the ash-pit. 

Receipt for Yorkshire Pudding — Ingredients, — \ pint of milk ; 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour ; 1 egg and a pinch of salt. Put 
the flour and salt into a basin as for bread, make a hole in 
the centre, and gradually stir enough of the \ pint of milk to 
make the flour into a very smooth paste ; break the egg into a 
basin ; when it has been well beaten, add it to the paste and 
the remainder of the milk. The whole pudding should then 
be mixed up very quickly together, and poured into the hot 
greased tin and put on the bottom of the oven for three 
minutes ; then place it under the roast meat for one hour. 
About 1 oz. of dripping should be put into the tin and 
left to bubble, when it will be the time to pour in the batter. 
The lightness of the pudding depends a good deal on 
this. 

Boast meat that is of good quality ought to contain 
enough gravy, and shoald not be sent to the table with any 
made gravy in the dish. Gravy is good to the Yorkshire 
pudding, and can be sent by itself. 

While the dinner is cooking I will tell you why all green 
vegetables swell when they are cooked. I have brought all 
the principal substances that are found in one pound of pota- 
toes, and amongst them you see this large bottle filled with 
starch. This starch is like common starch used to stifEen 
linen. If you could see a little of it through a microscope 
you would find that it was made of little bags or cells. 
Directly these little starch cells become hot they swell and 
grow much bigger, as you can see by cocrjasrai^^^ ^s3k^ ^^ '^ 



40 SEVENTH LESSON. 

cooked and nncooked starcli cell. When you baye seen how 
mach starch there is to be found in one pound of potatoes, 
yon will know how much there is to be found in cabbages and 
all green vegetables. 

Apparatus, ^c. Required* 

Component parts of 1 lb. of beef. 
Component parts of I lb. of potatoes. 
No. 2 Sheet, picture of starch cells. 

Foods to he Cooked* 

Joint. Egg. 

Flour. Cabbage, 

Milk. Dripping. 

Suggestions to the Cook. — If there is too much information for one 
lesson, some part of it could be reserved for the practice lesson the follow- 
ing week. 

The Cost of Dinner and how it was Sold, 

s, d. 

Cost of meat, 1 J lb 10 

Do. pudding ^ ^J 

Do. cabbage 1 

Sold for four girls' dinners, at 3d each — meat, pudding, cabbage 
divided into equal portions. 

The girls were very much pleased with their dinners. 



Questions for Seventh Lesson. 

1. Why ought all meat to be dipped into hot water and wiped dry 

before it is either roasted or boiled ? Why is it both dirty and 
dangerous to wrap up food in newspaper? 

2. How would you roast meat so that all its juices and flavouring 

matter, called osmazome, should be kept in the meat and not run 
out into the dripping pan ? 

3. A Yorkshire pudding is made of flour, eggs, and milk. Tell me 

which of these foods are animal and which are vegetable foods ? 
^. Whenever you have been able to practise ajiy of tlie cooking taught 
Ht the lesson, give me a faithful accowA oi \vsyw -jwv «^^<ix&^^<^^ 
and also how you failed in your attempts. 



BODT WA£MEBS AND FLESH FOHMEBS. 41 



Receipts for Seventh Lesson. 

YoRKSHiBB Pudding. — | pint of milk ; 2 tablespoonfals of flour ; 1 egg, 
and a pinch of salt. Put the salt and flour into a basin as for bread, make 
a hole in the centre, and gradually stir enough of the | pint of milk to make 
the flour into a very smooth paste ; break the egg into a basin. When it 
has been well beaten, add it to the paste and the remainder of the milk. 
The whole pudding should then be mixed up very qtdckly together, and 
poured into the hot greased tin and put on the bottom of the oven for 
three minutes ; then place it under the roast meat until cooked. 



EIGHTH LESSON. 
COOKING— continued. 



BAKBD STUFFBD HADDOCK — SUET FUDDINQ WITH CT7BBANTS OB RAISINS 
AND BAKBD POTATOES — DIRECTIONS ABOUT PUDDING CLOTH, BODT 
WARICERS AKD FLESH FORMERS. 

The last dinner we cooked consisted of roast beef and York- 
shire pudding and a cabbage. That dinner cost Is, 2^d. We 
will have a cheaper one to-day ; a baked staffed haddock, suet 
pudding, and baked potatoes. I bought everything yesterday ; 
1 also considered for some time before I went to the market. 
First, I remembered that it is winter time, and that I must, 
therefore, have a hot dinner, and take care that the foods I 
am going to cook shall contain animal and vegetable * body, 
warmers,' that will make feit to keep the body warm. We 
are working people, and my boys want as much food as their 
father, if not more. A working-man ought to eat more * body- 
warmers ' than * flesh-formers,' because he gets hot by work- 
ing, and the heat he makes in his body will melt a good deal 
of the fat that covers his bones. It is said that a working- 
man will bum seven ounces of this fat in a day ; if he melts 
too much he will grow cold, very weak, and thin. The fat he 
melts passes off through his skin in sweat. Of course he must 
also have a good quantity of food t\iai.\» W^Sl Tt^a^^ **^ic^»a. ^^^^^^ 

nerves, and muscle. x^^ssssi 

The dinner I fixed on is a \)aVeeL\i^^^ocV, ^^^-^^-^^^ ^"^ 



42 BIQHTH LESSON. 

with currants, and baked potatoes. The children shall each 
have a large piece of good bread, and then I think they will 
all have foods that will nourish their flesh, make them fat, and 
strengthen their bones. I always go to the most respectable 
shopkeepers and bay the best, because the best contains the 
most nourishment, and therefore is the cheapest. The best 
foods are also the cheapest, because they are in season, and 
therefore very plentiful. There is a proper time of year for 
every kind of animal and vegetable food — for instance, eggs are 
very dear in winter, because hens don't lay at that time ; Uiey 
begin to lay in the spring, and then they are very good and 
plentiful. Oranges are cheap and good in the early spring, but. 
in the autumn they are bad and dear. Fishmongers can sell 
any flsh cheap when it is in season. Salmon is so scarce at 
Christmas time that people have paid as much as 10«. per 
pound for it, and after all it would not taste as good as it does 
in the spring, when it is only I*. 6d, per pound. Haddocks 
are now in season, and I therefore bought this large one for 
6d. The flesh of fish, though it is white, will turn into flesh, 
nerves, and muscles in the body, just as red meat, beef, and 
mutton, do. As there is not so much fat in a fish as there 
is in butcher's meat, I bought suet, which is an animal's fat, 
and is suitable for those who are working hard. I shall 
make a stuf&ng with the suet, as well as use it for the pudding. 
The sugar in the pudding will turn into fat; children like 
sugar, but cannot eat much animal fat ; children should eat a 
good deal of sugar at their meals. The bread will feed their 
flesh and bones and also make fat, because of the starch 
there is in bread, which turns into fat. We must always 
have a fresh vegetable to make the blood pure, as I will ex- 
plain at another lecture. 

Now we will begin to prepare the foods which are all ready 
so that we can see them. As the suet pudding will take the 
longest time, we will now begin to chop the suet ; but first 
we must take ofi* any bits of skin. You must learn to chop 
food properly ; hold the handle of the knife in your left hand 
quite steady, and lift the blade with the other in this way. 
Sne^ sbonld be very £nely chopped ; a V\tt\e ^o^m ^oxj^JSk. \i» 
sprinkled over it while it is being chopped to ^re^eiA. ^3aa ^Vqcca 



dUET PUDDING AND BAKED HADDOOE. 43 

from sticking together. If they do the paste will be sad, not 
light. The cnrrants must be washed. I have arranged that 
half of you should wash currants, and the other half chop suet ; 
as we have so many cooks the pudding will soon be ready. 

Suet Tudding vnth either Currants or Raisins, — 3 oz. of 
finely chopped suet, \ lb. of flour, \ lb. of clean, dry raisins or 
currants, 2 oz. of sugar, pinch of salt. All these ingredients 
are to be mixed together with sufficient cold milk or water to 
make into a rather stiff paste ; tie up in a cloth which has 
been dipped in hot water and then sprinkled over with flour ; 
boil at least two hours. A plate should be put under the 
pudding, and the pudding be kept well covered with boiling 
water. 

Directions for pudding cloth on page 44. 

Now that our pudding is on the fire we must clean the 
fish. I have placed, you see, a piece of paper over the table, 
so that there may be no mess made ; we must not only be 
very clean, but very orderly. I shall notice which of you do 
your work the best. Fish not thoroughly well washed has 
been known to make people very ill. When the inside has 
been taken out, wash the fish well, particularly about the 
mouth and head, as the mouth may contain some bad food 
that the fish has been eating ; eels and crabs eat anything they 
find. Give fish at least two waters. In fresh fish the eyes 
look full and bright ; the eyes of stale fish look dull ; the gills 
must be a bright pink, not a dark dull red. I will tell you 
more about fish when you learn to fry it. Before we prepare 
any other food we will wash our hands. The stuffing must 
now be made, just enough to fill the inside of the fish ; look 
well at the space to be filled that we may not make too 
much stuffing. We chopped enough suet when we made the 
pudding, so we shall only have to chop the parsley ; it should 
be well washed in cold water. No vegetables should stand in 
water for more than two or three minutes. Then chop the 
parsley as you were taught to chop the suet. 

Stuffing for Baked Haddock, — 2 oz. of suet, 3 oz. of 
bread crumbs, 1 teaspoonfal of chopped -p^-t^«^ ^ ^'s^^f^^'t ^>2«^ 
salt to taste; 1 egg is to be well \)ea\«ii, V,o ^V\.Ool \v.^^ 'sSickO^ 
2 tablespoonfula of either milk ox ^atex, ^Safia xc:\-x.^vi\^'^ ^ 



44 EIGHTH LESSON. 

gredients together. Fill the haddock with this stuffing and 
close the opening with a skewer (some people sew it np) ; 
bake one hour, baste well with dripping. 

Fill the inside of the fish with the stuffing, and put it into 
the dish, the inside of which must be greased with a little 
dripping. The haddock will be well cooked in about an 
hour. 

The potatoes we require for baking. A baked potato mttst 
never be cooked in a cold oven, as when cooked it should be 
quite crisp but not burnt. The oven should be so hot that 
flour will turn brown as it did for bread-baking. The potato 
skin contains cork, such as you put in bottles to prevent water 
firom coming out. A small piece of cork swells very big in 
the stomach. You must never eat the potato skin. A baked 
potato is more digestible than if boiled ; it digests in much 
less time than a boiled one. A roasted potato digests in two 
hours, a boiled one in three hours and a half. The corky 
skin keeps in all the juices (like the egg shell), and the juices 
help the food to digest. 

We shall now wash up very quickly, as we can divide 
the work. First, take the inside of the fish, except the liver, 
which will feed the cat, the skin off the suet, and the potato 
peelings, and put them under the grate ; cover them over with 
hot ashes, and brush them quite to the back ; after an hour 
the hot ashes will have taken away any smell, so that when 
you make up the fire you can throw these things on the back 
of the fire, when they will burn and feed the fire as coals do. 
I shall only let you bum what cannot be eaten, or thrown into 
the swill-tub. People should never keep a swill-tub unless 
they have a pig, and an outhouse. 

Directions for Boiling a Pudding and the best method 
of washing and drying a Pudding Cloth. 

A pudding should always be put into boiling water, and 

then only allowed to simmer ; the water must be some inches 

above the top of the pudding, lest it should simmer away and 

/eare the padding nncovered ; an old pVsA/ft cVivg^p^ «.t tlie 

ed^es should be kept to place at the bottom oi tYiei ^wcL\ft y^^- 



PUDDING CLOTHS. 



45 



vent the pudding from sticking. Directly the cloth is taken 
off it should be pat to soak in water, then well washed in hot 
water and soda (never soap), well rinsed in clean water, 
and put out of doors, whether it be wet or dry, as no cloth 
will be quite sweet unless it has had plenty of fresh air ; care 
must be taken to keep it in a dry place wnen it is folded up 
ready to put by. A pudding cloth will stick to the pudding 
unless, just before it covers the pudding, it is first dipped into 
boiling water, squeezed dry, and sprinkled over with a little 
flour. Harding is the best material for a pudding cloth, 
it costs 6d, per yard ; a yard will make two good-sized ones. 

Notes, — Girls can be chopping small quantities of suet and 
parsley, as the methods are the same. 

As the girls like to buy the food, they should be told the 
previous week what the dinner of the following week is to be, 
and then they can bring baskets and their money, &c. 



Ingredients Required, 



Fish. 
Suet. 
Parsley. 
Salt. 



Flour. 
Currants. 
Sugar. 
Potatoes. 



Apparatus. 

Slate, on which the dinner for the day is written. 
No. 5 Sheet, about working-men and * body-warmers.' 
No. 6 Sheet, with ' body- warmers ' and * flesh-warmers.' 
Bought and sold for one week ; following week the same. 
The haddock was divided into three twopenny worths for each girl that 
wanted to buy, and two potatoes roasted and a little brown sauce. This 
was sold to three girls; the same girls had each one pennyworth of 
pudding ; what was left of the pudding was sold in pennyworths with a 
little sugar sprinkled over. 



Baked Stuffed Huddocky CurrarU and Suet Pudding. 



Cost. 



Monday 

Tuesday 

Wednesday 

Thursday 

Friday 



8. d. 




. 1 2 


Monday 


. 1 1 


Tuesday 


. 1 


Wednesday . 


. 10 


Thursday . 


. 10 


i "Eiidaj 



Sold. 



s. 


d. 





10 





8 





8 


^ 


^ 




^ ^ 



4 11 



•^ ^ 



46 NINTH LESSON. 

8. d. 

Money expenses 4 11 

Money received 3 6 

Balance due 15 

Questions for Eighth Lesson. 

1. Why do men and boys who work hard require a good deal of food 

that makes fat, called ' body-warmers ' ? 

2. The suet pudding and stuffing contain the following foods — suet, 

sugar, flour. Tell me which of these foods will make fat, called 
* body warmers' ? Why will flour make fat, flesh, and bone ? 

3. How would you clean a pudding cloth, and where would you put it 

when it was washed ? 

4. What would you do with the inside of the fish, the skin off the suet 

and the baked skins of the potatoes ? 

Receipts for Eighth Lesson. 

Suet Pudding with eithbb Currants or Baisins. — 3 oz. of 
finely-chopped suet, ^ lb. of flour, i lb. of clean, dry raisins or currants, 
2 oz. of sugar, pinch of salt. All these ingredients are to be mixed to- 
gether with sufficient cold milk or water to make into a rather stiff paste ; 
tie up in a doth which has been dipped in hot water and then sprinkled 
over with flour ; boil at least two hours. A plate should be put under the 
pudding and the pudding be kept well covered with boiling water. 

Stuffing for Baked Haddock. — 2 oz. of suet, 3 oz. of bread crumbs, 
1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, pepper and salt to taste. 1 egg is to be 
well beaten, to which add about 2 tablespoonfuls of either milk or water, 
then mix all the ingredients together. Fill the haddock with this stuffing 
and close the opening with a skewer (some people sew it up) ; bake one 
hour, baste well with dripping. 



NINTH LESSON. 

CO OKER Y— continued. 

BOILED TRIPE, ONION SAUCE — PRESERVE TURNOVERS — CLARIFY DRIPPING. 

Teipb is very digestible animal food if it is quite fresh, the 

coarse fat cut off, and the tripe thoroughly well cooked. I have 

bought one pound ready dressed, which we will first weigh 

and then wash. As we wish to keep in all ^<b ^^Q\3iX «aid 



TBIPB. 47 

juices, and make the meat look white, we must put it into 
boiHng water, with a cap of skim milk ; the milk will make 
the tripe white, and by boiUng five minutes the albumen on 
the ontfiide will be hardened and the juices kept in; after 
that time the pan must hang on the recon, where it will be 
kept simmering until the meat is well done, which will be in 
about an hour and a quarter. Tripe that has not been dressed 
requires nearly double that time. When the onions for the 
sauce are peeled thej shall be put into a pan well covered 
over with boiling water, a little salt added, and allowed to 
cook slowly for an hour until they are tender. Bemember an 
old knife must be kept entirely for peeling onions. A cook is 
both dirty and careless who uses a knife to cut any kind of 
food after it has once cut an onion, and who does not wash 
her hands before she touches any other food. 

Onion Sauce, — First boil 3 onions, then chop finely, 
add 1 pint of boiling milk that has been thickened with a 
teaspoonful of flour, flavour with pepper and salt, and simmer 
altogether for five minutes. 

Clarifying Dripping, — Pour boiling water into the basin 
that contains the dripping, and stir the water and dripping up 
well together, then let it remain until cold. Then take oft the 
cake, and put into a jar just to melt in the oven. When the 
dripping cake is cold it will be very clean, and keep for some 
time, as the second melting down, or rendering, as it is called, 
has sent out all the water. Fat that rises on water in which 
beef, mutton, or veal has been boiled, should be clarified in the 
same way. 

Savoury Ptiddvng, — 3 oz. of bread, 3 oz. of oatmeal, 3 oz. 
of suet, 1 teaspoonful or 6 leaves of sage, 3 large onions, 1 egg, 
and ^ pint of milk. Soak the bread in the milk until quite 
soft, boil the onions in plenty of water ; when tender chop 
them up very fine ; the suet also must be chopped very fine ; 
then add them to the soaked bread with the oatmeal. Mix aU 
the ingredients well together. Just before putting the pudding 
into the oven, add the egg well beaten, pepper and salt to 
taste. Put an ounce of dripping into the pudding tin, make 
it hot before you pour the pudding in ; bake three-quarters of 
an hour. 



48 NINTH LESSON. 

You are now going to learn how to make and bake 
dripping pastry. Watch all I do, and try and remember all 
I say, as I intend that each of yon shall make a jam turnover 
at the next lesson. It is much more difficult to make light 
pastry in hot than in cold weather, because the cook's hot 
hands and the hot air of the room melt the fat, whether it be 
dripping, suet, or butter, so that it sticks to the flour and 
makes a gluey heavy substance instead of a light paste. The 
cook's hot hands, the rolling pin and paste-board, all get sticky, 
and are constantly obliged to be sprinkled over with fresh 
flour ; the paste then becomes too stifi; A cook always makes 
her pastry in a cool room, and if her master is rich will make 
it on a marble instead of a wooden paste-board. A large clean 
slate or a tile off a house does as well. The quantities of flour, 
dripping, and water we shall require must now be measured. 
To one pound of flour we put four ounces of dripping, and 
always mix one pound of flour with rather less than a gill of 
cold water. This basin you remember just holds one pound 
of flour, this mug half a pint, and this tablespoon one ounce. 
Lest the flour should not be quite dry I put it in a basin on 
the top of the oven for a short time ; if the flour were the 
least damp the pastry could not be light. This dripping looks 
very white because it has been nicely clarified, and it will taste 
as sweet as it looks. Rub the flour and dripping gently toge- 
ther, when this is done make a little hole in the centre, pour 
the water in gradually, and mix all together with the cool 
blade of a very clean knife. Before the paste is put on the 
paste-board just sprinkle a little flour over it, and the rolling 
pin as well ; knead the paste lightly, and do not press heavily 
on the rolling pin. When the paste is rolled out to the thick- 
ness of an inch cut ii out into round shapes with a small plate ; 
the jam should then be put on half the round cake, the edges 
just wetted with a little water, and the other half be turned 
over the jam, and the edges be pressed together. The lightest 
and best pastry will be made heavy if the heat of the oven is 
not exactly right ; if too cold the paste won't rise up, and if 
too hot it will be burnt. If there is no thermometer in the 
oran, ^sprinkle a pinch of flour on the bottom shelf, as you did 
io bread-baking: if the flour turns a nice broNrn. in a few 



DBIPPlNG PASTUY. 49 

seoonds the heat will do ; 4D0° should be the heat bj a thermo- 
meter. Remember to put the paste on the bottom shelf for 
five minutes, and then put it on the top one to get brown, as 
jou did with the bread. 

We will now clarify this dripping. Clarify is a long word, 
which means to make clear or clean. Dripping which drops 
from clean meat which has been washed will not contain dirt, 
only bits of the outside of the meat or cinders that have fallen 
into it^ because the dripping pan was put too near the fire. 
Dripping is made dear'by pouring boiling water over it in a 
basin, and by stirring the water and dripping together with a 
spoon. When the dripping has become quite cold, it forms a 
hard cake and rises to the top of the water, because dripping 
is &t, and fat or oil is much lighter than water, and will 
therefore fioat on the top of it, just as a piece of wood will 
float. I have some oil and water iu this botfcle, and you can 
see how the oil rests on the top. You might try and mix 
them together for ever, but they would separate when the 
bottle had remained still for a shorfc time. 

The little bits of dirt or cinder are heavier than the fat or 
water, and therefore sink to the bottom of the water in the 
basin. The dripping cake must be put into a jar in the oven 
until melted, to send out the water in the fat, or it will not 
keep. Dripping should be kept in a cool place, and it will 
then be good for some time. Dripping prepared in the way 
directed is the most nourishing fat next to butter. 

The following information is to be given when tripe is not 
to be got. A small joint of pork should be roasted, and a 
savoury pudding made. Pork, and aU flesh of the pig, requires 
to be cooked very slowly and well, because sometimes a little 
creature lives in the flesh called 'Trichina.' The German 
and Bussian people suffer very much from a dreadful com- 
plaint because they have the bad custom of eating pork and 
ham that has not beeu cooked, only salted, dried and smoked. 
These creatures are killed by boiling water, or the heat of an 
oven which is 400®, or by roasting the meat thoroughly and 
slowly before a fire. We are going to roast a small joint 
of pork and make a savoury pudding. We will first -qnt 
the porl^ that weighs 2 lbs., very c\o^^ \» ^'^ "^^ ^^'^^ *^«a. 



50 NINTH LESSON. 

xniniites, and then draw it away and let it Iiave half an honr 
for each pound. 

QueatioTia for Ninth Lesson. 

1. Why is a pie-crust or any kind of pastry very sad and tough when 

it is made in a hot room and by a cook who has hot hands ? 

2. Why is pastry not light when it is made by a cook who presses the 

rolling pin down heavily on to the paste ? 

3. How would you find out that the oven was the right heat for 

baking pastry? 

4. When a cook cleans or clarifies dripping she puts it into a basin 

and pours boiling water over it, and stirs the water and dripping 
well together. Tell me why the dripping rises to the top of the 
water, and the dirt fiills to the bottom of the basin. 



Receipts for Ninth Lesson. 

Onion Sauce. — First boil 8 onions, or about 1 lb., in sufficient water 
until tender, then chop finely; make a sauce of 1 pint of boiling milk 
thickened with a tablespoonM of flour, season with pepper and salt ; add 
the onions to the sauce, and simmer all together for five minutes. 

Clabifyino Dhipping. — Pour boiling water into the basin that contains 
the dripping, and stir the water and dripping up well together, then let it 
remain until cold. Then take off the cake, and put it into a jar just to 
melt in the oven. When the dripping cake is cold it will be very clean, 
and keep for some time, as the second melting down, or rendering, as it is 
called, has sent out all the water. Fat that rises on water in which beef, 
mutton, or veal has been boiled should be clarified in the same way. 

Savoury Pudding. — 3 oz. of bread, 8 oz. of oatmeal, 3 oz. of suet» 1 tea- 
spoonfiil or 6 leaves of sage, 3 large onions, 1 egg, and i pint of milk. 
Soak the bread in the milk until quite soft, boil the onions in plenty of 
water; when tender chop them up very fine ; the suet also must be chopped 
very fine ; then add them to the soaked bread with the oatmeaL Mix all 
the ingredients well together. Just before putting the pudding into the 
oven, add the egg well beaten, pepper and salt to taste. Put an ounce of 
dripping into the pudding tin, make it hot before you pour the pudding in, 
bake three-quarters of an hour. 



KIKEBAL FOOM, 51 



TENTH LESSON. 

COOKINQ^-cwttinued, 

DIMNSB TO-DiLT: — ^KBiLT AND POTATO PIB — COBNISH PASTIES — SCATTBBED 

BICE. 

I HAYB often told yon that we must eat every day foods called 
* body- warmers * and * flesh-formers * that will make the fat 
and flesh which cover our bones. Animal foods and vege- 
table foods contain the same things, but certain things are 
f onnd in mnch greater quantities in one than in the other ; 
for instance, all animal foods have water and some minerals, 
but green vegetables, such as potatoes, cabbages, <fec. have a. 
great deal more water and minerals. These bottles contain the 
quantity of water, minerals, and other substances which there 
are in a pound of meat. In this row of bottles you will see 
the quantity of water, minerals, and other substances which 
there are in a pound of potatoes. Potatoes, you see, have 
nearly twice the quantity of both water and minerals. Iron, 
lime, phosphorus, and potassium are minerals. Minerals are 
hard substances which are dug out of the earth ; men and 
animals cannot eat them ; but vegetables grow in the earth, 
and their little roots suck up water that contains minerals. 
Harrogate water contains a great deal of iron, sulphur, and 
other minerals; people go to Harrogate who suffer from 
scurvy and skin diseases to drink these waters. We boil 
potatoes with their skins on to keep in the water and all the 
good things which are mixed up in the water ; but, however 
carefully we cook meat and vegetables, the heat that comes out 
in steam takes away some of them. We cannot eat any kind 
of meat, except an egg or an oyster, without cooking ; but we 
can eat some vegetables raw, such as lettuce, water-cresses, 
radishes, onions, celery, and mustard and cress ; fruit of all 
kinds, oranges, apples, lemons, <fec., — all these contain nearly 
the same quantity of water and minerals that the potato 
does, and keep the blood pure. Our e!^iioT^^^3Q«^\S^^^<«i2t^ 
ago, naed to die of scurvy by ttiOTLaaiiSL^ ^"VictL ^^^ -^^t^Wj^n^ 



52 TENTH LESSON. 

voyages and had no potatoes or any fresli vegetables or fruit. 
Now the Government oblige the captains of all vessels to take 
lemon-juice, that contains a great deal of a mineral food called 
'potash,* which sailors take daily; of course potatoes, fresh 
vegetables, or fruit are much better than lemon juice. You 
may fancy how terribly sailors suffered by the following ac- 
count, written by Dr. Guy of London : — 

* Round blotches came under the skin, called " purples." 
The blood ran into the flesh and made the limbs painful and 
stiff. The blood-vessels were so weak that they broke with a 
touch. The gums sweUed and became dark, the teeth grew 
loose and fell out of their sockets. The breath was bad, and 
blood poured from the nostrils and eyes. The poor sufferer 
became so weak that he fainted at the least exertion, and fell 
down dead in sight of his native land.' 

Dr. Chambers says he considers that the working people 
of England who live in large towns have bad teeth and 
breath and pale faces because they eat so little fruit and 
fresh vegetables. The French people eat nearly twice as 
n^uch fruit and vegetables as we do, and they manage to get 
a salad nearly all the year round. Any uncooked vegetables 
mixed together make what is called a salad. Onions chopped 
up fine and put on bread and butter are very good. In the 
winter everyone might get onions, and have a good quantity 
of pickled cabbage stored up ; nothing is better when water- 
cresses are not to be had. A cold cauliflower, slightly boiled, 
is good with a salad sauce over it. 

Receipt for Salad Sauce, — Put the yoke of a hard-boiled 
egg in a basin, break it up fine with a wooden spoon, adding 
a pinch of salt and a pinch of pepper, then keep stirring 
briskly while you pour in slowly two tablespoonfuls of milk, 
cream, or sweet oil, then add one tablespoonful of vinegar 
and half a teaspoonful of mustard ; add a little sugar if liked 
instead of mustard. 

The French people cook their vegetables very well, and 

never let them be hard ; they also wash them with great care. 

The leaves of all vegetables contain more mineral matter than 

/U2jr other part, Teg'etables should never be allowed to soak 

-zo water; tbejr abould be gently and quicisLVy TN«dafe^ m wAd 



TEOETABLES. 53 

waiOT, tlie leaves must not be the least crushed. The French 
people put their vegetables into a wire basket when cleaned, 
with holes to let out the water, and hang it up, as it has a 
handle. Stale old vegetables are quite as unwholesome and 
d%Qgerous to eat as putrid meat, but, unfortunately, they do 
not smell so badly ; a ^sh vegetable does not feel soft and 
flabby. Gardeners can give old vegetables a fresh appearance 
by sprinkling water over them to make them swell out. 
People soon get to know the difference between these bad 
vegetables and fresh ones. There are some places in Oxford- 
shire where the labourers have a habit of eating lettuce un- 
washed, and they suffer from the round worm. A little salt 
kills slugs, <fec. Cabbages and cauliflowers should be washed 
in salt and water, as slugs hide themselves between the leaves 
and cannot be got out. 

The dinner to-day is a potato pie and cold boiled rice ; the 
rice may be eaten with treacle, sugar, or preserved fruit and 
some cold milk, or with meat or gravy. This is a dinner I 
could prepare the night before, because I could warm the 
pies up again. I mean to make some small pies called ' Cor- 
nish pasties,' which will contain just what the big one does ; 
these pies will be ready for my son and daughter to take with 
them to school to-morrow, as they are teachers ; I hope they 
will be able to warm them up somewhere. I bought these 
scraps of meat last night for 6d. per pound. The butcher 
cut them off the outside of the best joints that had been 
hanging a few days. Butchers cut scraps off ham, pork, and 
all their good joints to make them a nice shape; they are 
quite good and can be bought at 6d, per pound. Just dip 
them in hot water and make them clean ; you see the meat is 
both fat and lean, so that the pie shall contain * body- warmers,' 
* flesh- formers,' and * mineral foods ; ' the potatoes and onions 
will be the mineral food ; the crust will have flour and drip- 
ping. You learned how to make the pastry we are going to 
use for these pies at the last lesson. 

Receipt for Gorrmh Pasties. — Rub 2 oz. of clarified drip- 
ping into 4 oz. of flour, mix them together with 2J table- 
spoonfuls of cold water; knead into a ^aata^ tlaa\^ x^\L ^ 
out nntil it is the thickneBS oi "ViiXi «». yclOg.^ ^j^s^^^ss^^ *«»- 



54 TENTH LESSON. 

small plate, tin, or saucer that has been rubbed with a little 
dripping. Toast a thin slice of either ham or lean bacon 
vei'y slightly^ only enough to take away any raw taste, cut 
it up into pieces of half an inch ; next beat up one whole 
eg^ in a basin, then add two teaspoonfnls and a half of 
either skim milk, new milk, or cream to the egg^ with a little 
pepper and salt, and then put in the pieces of bacon ; mix 
all up well together, and fill the saucer with the mixture, 
and cover it over with a lid of the paste. Potatoes might 
be used instead of the ham, or mixed with it, or meat might 
be used of fish, flesh, or fowl. 

Preserve or fresh fruit Cornish pasties are very good. 

All these little pies will contain the three kinds of food 
we must eat daily to keep us strong and our skin healthy. 
The milk and eggs are most nourishing animal flesh-formers, 
the dripping is an animal body-warmer. The flour is a 
most nourishing vegetable flesh-former and body- warmer, as 
it contains starch and albumen. The potato is a mineral 
food because it has a great deal* of potash. In the summer 
Cornish pasties, filled with fresh fruit, would be very nou- 
rishing and good for the blood ; the flour in the crust would 
be a * flesh-former,' and the dripping put into it a ' body- 
warmer.' All fresh fruits contain a great quantity of the 
mineral food, potash. 

Receipt fur Scattered Bice, — Boil until tender in boiling- 
water, then pour the water and rice into a sieve, shake the 
rice about for a short time on the sieve, and stir it with a fork 
to prevent the rice from sticking together. 



Meat. 

Egg. 
Suet. 



Ingredients Required, 

Flour. 
Dripping. 



Bice. 
Salad. 



Apparatus, 

Food collection, showing component parts of 1 lb. of flour, 1 lb. of meat, 
and 1 lb. of potatoes. 

J^o, 5 Sheet, with juices and component parts of meat. 



OOBHISH PASTIBS. — SCATTERED BIOE. 55 



Questions for Tenth Lesson. 

1. In the winter, when there is no lettuce, mustard and cress, celery, 

water-cresses, &c., sometimes called ' mineral foods ' because they 
contain minerals such as iron, lime, phosphorus, potassium, what 
uncooked yegetables could you eat that would do instead of these ? 

2. Why did an immense number of our poor sailors die of scurvy when 

they went long voyages about a hundred years ago ? 

3. Tell me how you could make either a meat, vegetable, or fruit 

Cornish pasty so that it should contain 'body-warmers,' 'flesh- 
formers,' and 'mineral' foods. 

4. How would you cook rice or macaroni so that it could be eaten 

with any kind of meat, or with milk and sugar, or with treacle 
alone? 

Receipts for Tenth^Lesson. 

CoBNiSH Fastibs, Ko. 1. — ^Bub 2 oz. of clarified dripping into 4 oz. of 
flour, mix them together with 2^ tablespoonfuls of cold water, knead 
into a paste, then roll it out until it is the thickness of half an inch, 
and line a small tin plate or saucer that has been rubbed with a little 
dripping. Toast a thin slice of either ham or lean bacon very slightly, 
only enough to take away any raw taste ; cut it up into pieces of half an 
inch. Next beat up one whole egg in a basin, then add 2^ tablespoonfuls 
of either skim milk, new milk, or cream to the egg, with a little 
pepper and salt, and then put in the pieces of bacon ; mix all up well 
together, and fill the saucer with the mixture and cover it over with a lid 
of the paste. Potatoes may be used instead of the ham or bacon or mixed 
with it, or the meat of fish, fiesh, or fowl might be used. These pasties 
can be made the same shape as turnovers if less liquid be used. 

CoBNiSH Fastibs, No. 2. — ^To 1 lb. of flour, rub in J lb. of dripping, 
any kind will do, then mince a little bacon or ham along with any other 
kind of meat, and mix with the meat a little potato and onion ; season 
with pepper and salt to taste. Eoll out the paste, put in the above, then 
place on a paste cover, and bake in a slow oven for twenty minutes. 

ScATTEBBD EiCE. — 2 OZ. of rice well washed in cold water, then add 1 
quart of water, simmer until tender in boiling water, then pour the rice 
and water into a sieve ; shake the rice about for a short time on the siere, 
and stir it with a fork to prevent the rice from sticking together. 



56 ELEVENTH LESSON. 



ELEVENTH LESSON. 

COOKING— continued, 

DINNEB: — FBIED FISH, PLAICB — HASHED POTATOES — BAKED BICE FX7DDING. 

Evert cook ought to know that when burnt fat is eaten, 
directly it enters the stomach it makes the most unwholesome 
of all acids called ' butyric acid/ which causes a gas or bad 
air to form that gives heartburn, pains under the shoulder- 
blades, and palpitation of the heart. Fat is a very difficult 
food to cook because it can be made twice as hot as boiling 
water ; water boils when the quicksilver rises up in the ther- 
mometer to 212°, but fat does not boil until it rises up to 
about 600° or 700°. When fat really boils it would bum a 
piece of fat or meat to ashes in a second, and yet all cookery 
books will tell you to take great care to make the fat boil in 
the frying-pan before you put in the fish or any food. The 
right heat that fat should be for frying any kind of food is 
350°. I hope that cooks will soon use the thermometer to 
find out the proper heat. The best way to find out without a 
thermometer is to put a piece of bread into the fat; if it 
becomes nicely browned in rather less than a minute, it will 
brown the food too. When fish, potatoes, or veal cutlets are 
put into the fat, let the fat remain at that heat (350°) for 
about five minutes, until both sides of the fish have become a 
good brown colour ; then either hang the frying-pan on the 
recon over the fire, or put it on the brig, or oven-top, when 
the fijsh can cook gradually in the feit ; find out if it is done 
enough by lifbing the flesh with a knife — if it leaves the bone 
readily it is done. Veal cutlets should cook slowly, as veal is 
very indigestible unless very well cooked. A &ying-pan 
should be constantly moved about so long as the fat is 350° 
to prevent the food from sticking to the bottom of the pan, 
which it will instantly do if the pan is thin. The burnt fat in 
the pan will, of course, gradually sink into every part of 
^0 £sh, veaJ, or potatoes^ and mi^e them very indigestible. 
*^ mutton chop or bee&teak ought never to "b^ y^*-^ ^^^ ^ 



FBIED FISH. 57 

frying-pan. These two meats contain a great deal more fat 
than fish or veal ; if cooked in a frying-pan the fat coyers the 
outside and gets into the middle and makes the meat very fat 
and greasy ; no wonder that an invalid or a person with a 
weak digestion is made ill by snch dishes. When a chop or 
beefsteak is put on a gridiron the outside gets hardened, all 
the juices are kept in, and the burnt fat drops into the fire. 
A frying-pan should be like ours, a thick iron one, and perfectly 
cleui ; if the least speck of either old or burnt fat is left in, the 
fresh &t will be spoiled. 

The fish we are going to fry is a piece of plaice that costs 
4(2. to 6d, per pound ; it is good because it smells sweet and 
feels very firm when pressed with my finger. After it has 
been washed in this cold water it must be well wiped and 
have a little time to get perfectly dry ; unless it is quite dry 
it will not brown when it is fried. We will put two ounces of 
dripping into the pan and watch it carefully until it is the 
right heat ; the thermometer is up at 350°, and you see this 
piece of bread has become a beautiful brown. Just sprinkle a 
little flour over the fish before you put it into the fat ; when 
the underside is brown we will turn it over ; now that both 
sides are sufficiently browned, the pan shall stand on the brig 
until the fish is done. Cooks generally beat up a whole egg, 
dip a brush into the egg and put it all over the fish or veal 
cutlets, then sprinkle fine bread crumbs over it ; the egg and 
bread crumbs stick together and get brown, if the fish is quite 
dry and fresh, but not without, though the fat is the right 
heat. 

Baked Bice Fvddmg, — We will now measure all the quan- 
tities we want for our baked rice pudding. Two tablespoon- 
ftils of rice (the same as 2 oz.), 1 pint of either milk or water, 
or half milk and water, 1 tablespoonful full of finest chopped 
suet (1 oz.), 1 tablespoonfal of brown sugar (1 oz.) ; the rice 
must be twice well washed in cold water, and then put into a 
pie-dish ; the milk, sugar, and suet can then be added to the 
rice, and all be well stirred up together ; the pudding ought 
to be baked very slowly, three hours is not too much ; the 
heat of the oven ought not to be more than 212°. 

Nothing ia more indigeatMe far ^ ^^^ ^V^\aa^ "•^ssaaa 



58 ELEVENTH LESSON. 

eggs which have been put into a pudding >and baked, because 
the albumen in the egg gets very hard and is said to be as 
difficult to digest as leather. When new milk can be got to 
put into the pudding, neither suet nor butter need be added ; 
suet is added when water is mixed with the milk. 

Mashed Potatoes. — We will now measure what we want to 
make one dish of mashed potatoes. 1 lb. of mashed potatoes 
require 1 oz. of dripping, 2 tablespoonfals of milk (the milk 
is not necessary). Boil the potatoes in their skins, when 
done take them out of the pan, let them stand by the fire just 
to get dry, then peel them, put them back into the pan and 
beat them well up with a potato-crusher or large fork ; the 
dripping and a little salt can then be added, and when all has 
been well mixed up together, and become very hot, put the 
mash into a dish, and just draw the fork lightly across the 
top to make it look rough. 

The dinner to-day will give my family plenty of animal 
and vegetable body- warmers, flesh-formers, and mineral foods. 

Questions for Eleventh Lesson. 

1. How would you find out the proper heat of fat to fry either fish, 

veal, or potatoes, so that they should have a beautiful brown 
colour ? Ought the fat to boil ? 

2. Why is fried mutton chop or beefsteak very unwholesome and in- 

digestible for an invalid or a person who has a weak stomach ? 
Why ought these two meats to be cooked on a gridiron ? 

3. Why are eggs indigestible in a baked rice pudding ? 

Receipts for Eleventh Lesson. 

Baked Bice Pudding. — 2 tablespoonfuls of rice (2 oz.); 1 pint of 
either milk or water, or half water and half milk ; 1 teaspoonful of finest 
chopped suet; 1 tablespoonful of brown sugar (1 oz.). The rice must be 
twice well washed in cold water, and then put into a pie^dish ; the milk, 
sugar, and suet can then be added to the rice, and all well stirred up 
together ; the pudding ought to be baked very slowly, three hours is not too 
much; the heat of the oven ought not to be more than 212^. Nothing 
is more indigestible for a weak stomach than eggs which have been put 
into a pudding and baked, because the albumen in the egg gets very hard, 
and is said to be as difficult to digest as leather. When new milk can 
begot to put into the pudding, neither Buet nor butter need be added; suet 
A added when water ia mixed with the milk. 



MILK. 59 

Fall directions are given for frying fish and veal cutlets at page 57. 

Fby Plaich "WITHOUT Bbbad-cbuhbs and Ego. — Dip in clean cold 
water and wipe yerj diy, and hang up in a current of fresh air if there is 
time, sprinkle it over with a little flour, put 2 oz. of dripping into the clean 
frying-pan and melt until a piece of bread turns a nice brown in about a 
minute, or the thermometer rises to 350° ; the flsh should then be put in 
the pan, and tamed when the under part looks brown ; when the two sides 
are brown the frying-pan must be put on the hot oven-top, where the fish 
can cook slowly until the flesh leaves the bone when a knife is put between 
the flesh and bone. 

Mashbd Potatoes. — 1 lb. of potatoes, J oz. of dripping or butter, 2 
tablespoonfuls of milk (the milk is not necessary). Boil the potatoes in 
their skins ; when done take them out of the pan, let them stand by the 
fire just to get dry, then peel them and put them back into the pan ; beat 
them up with a potato-crusher or large fork ; the dripping and a little salt 
can then be added, and when all has been well mixed up together, and 
become very hot, put the mash into a dish, and just draw the fork lightly 
across the top to make it look rough. 



TWELFTH LESSON. 

COOKERY— continued, 

jrOODS FOB AN INVALID WHO IS NOT ALLOWED TO TAKE SOLID FOOD OB 18 
8UFFEB1N0 FBOM A FEVBB : MILK — ^BEEF-TEA — GBUEL — BABLEY WATBB. 

If you are nursing patients suffering from the following com- 
plaints, called fevers — small-pox, chicken-pox, measles, scar- 
latina, typhus, enteric or gastric fever, yellow fever, relapsing, 
remittent^ cholera, mumps and influenza, you may give them 
the following foods : milk, beef tea, &c. 

Milk is an animal food, and is the most nourishing of all 
foods, because it contains every substance that is to be found 
in animal or vegetable foods. 

Li these bottles there are exact quantities of the principal 
substances contained in one pint of new milk. Starch and all 
those things that make fat are placed together and called 
* body-warmers.' Albumen and all that make flesh, nerves, 
and muscle, are all put together and called 'flesh-formers,' 
and iron, potash, <fec., which are called mineral foods^ are all 
taraoged in these small botiieB. M.o\i\i6ti'^ t£^^ ^s^ ^^^^ 



60 TWELFTH LESSON. 

milk are almost exactly the same ; tbongh milk contains such 
a great variety of foods, the most delicate infant can live 
entirely npon it, because the right proportions of all these dif- 
ferent snbstances have been mixed together with the right 
qnantity of water, and because when the little infant takes it 
from its mother it is properly cooked by about 100® of 
heat. 

An ignorant cook would boil milk at 212° and spoil the 
delicate flavour, harden the albumen, and send out some of the 
substances in the steam. Grown-up people suffering from 
fever, or who have a delicate stomach, can sometimes drink 
cold or new milk, when any other food would directly make 
them sick. 

Doctors now consider it is more important to give their 
patients milk than any other food ; they often order a nurse 
to give a quart and a half in a day to persons who are 
suffering from any of the following complaints called fevers — 
small-pox, chicken-pox, measles, scarlatina, typhus, enteric or 
gastric fever, yellow fever, relapsing, remittent, cholera, 
mumps, influenza. They also order a nurse to give the 
strongest beef-tea, which you are going to prepare to-day. 
Beef is the butcher's meat always chosen to make tea for 
people who are very weak and have delicate digestions and 
nerves, because it contains more flavouring matter called 
osmazome than any other meat. There is very little 
osmazome in white meat, such as veal, lamb, fish. Mutton has 
a good deal, but not so much as beef. 1 will suppose that 
some one is ill and requires the strongest beef -tea as quickly 
as possible. The tea must therefore be made of the same 
weight of beef and water. As 1 want a pint of tea 1 bought one 
pound of the best lean beef. After I have taken off every bit of 
fat and skin, and cut it up into pieces of about an inch square, 
1 shall let it stand one hour in the pint of water, which must 
be cold, because 1 know cold water can draw out all the juices 
from the meat if it remains in long enough. I also know 
that 1 must not let the tea boil at 212° or the flavour is 
spoiled and the albumen hardened. How can I cook so that 
I shall be sure it cannot boil (for I am a poor woman, far too 
bzisjr to watch the pot the whole time \t la ou ^^a ^i^ qt \xi 



BEEF-TEA. 61 

the oven) P Fortnnately, I know that if I cover the jar of 
beef-tea and put it into a pan of boiling water, which is 
either boiling on the fire or in the oven, the beef-tea in the jar 
cannot boil if it is left there for ever, only cook gently or 
simmer at about 180°. 

The only thing I must do is to take care to keep the water 
which surrounds the jar boiling, and keep putting in more 
water, lest the water should all boil away and the pan get 
burnt, either on the fire or in the oven. Everybody should be 
taught this scientific fact, that no food can be brought up to 
boiling point in a pan or jar that is surrounded by boiling 
water. Double saucepans are sold on purpose for cooking 
custards, because a custard is spoiled directly it boils. A little 
pan or jar put into a larger one serves the same purpose. 
There is in this bottle some beef -tea that 1 made this morning ; 
it contains the same quantiiy of meat and water that we have 
just used. The beef stood for an hour in cold water, and 
then it was put into a pan of boiling water for one hour. 
Beef tea ought never to form a jelly when it is cold ; this is 
cold, but quite clear and thin. Here is some beef-tea in 
another bottle that was made at the same time, with the same 
quantity of meat and water. The only difference is, that the 
meat was put into boiling water and boiled for one hour ; you 
see what a small quantity, only a third as much as there is in 
the other bottle, and the flavour is very poor. 

Dr. Chambers says that if sick pei'sons during their illness 
were given plenty of milk, one quart and a half during the 
day, and some good beef-tea, they would not die while they 
are in the fever from starvation, nor after they had lost the 
fever irom. weakness, because they had become too thin to 
recover. During the fever the blood is not only much hotter 
than it is when we are in health, but it flies much more 
quickly to every part of the body, and gradually bums up 
the &t and causes the flesh, nerves and muscles to waste 
away. Some nurses think that people who have fevers should 
not have much food, and that strong beef- tea that has been 
boiled and become a stiff jelly is all the food that ought to be 
given them. They would not think this if they understood 
that the beef-tea only feeds the fteaii aacLdi ^iSoai^ '^'e^ ^^^"^ ^'?!&gvks!Is* 



62 TWELFTH LESSON. 

is dying becanse the other parts of the body are being burned 
np. Milk contains a great deal of mineral food which purifies 
the poisoned blood, and also feeds the fat. 

A nnrse should always write down on a piece of paper 
the exact quantity of food she has given the patient during 
the day, and mention the exact time when she gave it, so 
that the doctor can quickly gain a clear account of all that 
has been done during his absence. The air of a sick room, 
however well ventilated, will contain a great deal of the 
breath of the sick person, in which there must be some of the 
horrid germs that are causing the fever or any disease. If 
water, milk, or any food is left uncovered, the bad air mvst 
get into it. Germs grow quickly in milk. Take care always 
to cover water and everything with a plate or a saucer, and do 
not keep more food than you want in the room, and do not let 
anyone in the house eat the food when it is taken out of the 
room. If the persons are very weak, do not let them sit up in 
bed to eat the food, but give it them in a little covered cup 
like this, which can be put into the mouth without letting the 
food run over the bed-clothes; wash it and every utensil 
directly it has been used in a little boiling water. Every sick- 
room ought to have a httle kettle. Be sure never to give the 
medicine out of the feeding- cup, A nurse should think the day 
before how much beef- tea and milk she will require. If a pint 
or half a pint, she will require the same weight of beef. The 
beef ought to be cut up and put into the cold water, so that 
the j a ices will all come out during the night, and be ready to 
cook in the morning. 

We will now learn how to make barley water. Two ounces 
of pearl barley is enough to make one quart of barley water 
as a drink to quench thirst, for which only is it given, as it is 
not a nourishing food. The two ounces should be washed in 
cold water, then they should be boiled for five minutes in 
another water, whiqh, like the first, must be thrown away. 
Two quarts of boiling water must then be added, and the 
barley allowed to boil until the water is reduced to only one 
quart ; cut some very thin slices off the outside of a lemon to 
£avour the barley water, squeeze out some juice through 
either a piece of muslin or a sieve to pTeveu^ ^^ Y^ ^m 



BEEF-TEA, BABLET WATER, OBUEL. 6S 

&ning in, and add Bugar to taste. The barley water onght 
not to be strained unless tbe sick person particularly wishes 
this to be done. 

MiUc Oruel, — As gniel is much more nourishing made with 

milk, I will give the receipt used in the Children's Hospital. 
Grits are the best. Grits, ^ oz. ; water, | oz. ; milk, ^ pint ; 
sugar, ^ oz. 

Water Orvsl, — ^Mix 1 large tablespoonfal of oatmeal into 
a smooth paste with a little cold water, pour in (mixing all the 
time) a pint of boiling water, boil for ten minutes, stirring as 
before, and strain. It may be eaten with salt or sugar, according 
to taste. 

Questions for Twelfth Lesson, 

1. Why do doctors order a nurse to give new milk and beef-tea to a 

person who is saffering from a fever, or any of the following com- 
plaints, which are all called fevers — small-pox, chicken-pox, 
measles, scarlatina, typhus, enteric or gastric fever, yellow fever, 
relapsing, remittent, cholera, mumps, and influenza ? 

2. Why would a person in a fever be starved or pined if the nurse only 

gave him beef-tea ? 

3. The strongest beef-tea is made with the same weight of water and 

beef. How would you make a pint of beef-tea so that none of its 
juices and flavouring matter called osmazome should be wasted ? 

4. By what means could you cook food in a saucepan or jar and pre- 

vent the food from ever boiling at 212 degrees? 

Receipts for Twelfth Lesson. 

Bbef Tea, the Sibongest. — 1 lb. of lean beef, remove all skin and 
gristle, cut up to the size of an inch, cover over in jar with 1 pint of cold 
water and a pinch of salt ; let it stand for one hour, then put the jar into a 
pan of boiling water, either on the flre or in the oven, for one or two hours ; 
the water in the pan must be kept boiling. If an egg is ordered to be 
added to the beef-tea, it must be beaten up and added when the tea is taken 
off the fire ; if put in and allowed to boil, the egg would crack. 

Bablst Water. — 2 oz. of pearl barley to be well washed in cold 
water, then boiled for five minutes in another water ; this water must be 
thrown away; 2 quarts of boiling water must then be added, and the barley 
allowed to simmer until the water is reduced to 1 quart ; cut some very 
thin slices off the outside of a lemon to flavour the barley water, squeeze 
out some of the juice through either a sieve or a piece of muslin ; add sugar 
to taste. The barley water ought not to be strained unless the sick ^rson. 
partieulatly wiBheithis to bo done. 



64 THIBTEENTH LESSON. 

Milk Gbuel. — \ oz. of grits, J pint of water, } pint of milk (the milk 
and water together makes a pint), ^tz, of sugar. 

Watbb Gruel. — Mix 1 large tablespoonful of oatmeal into a smooth 
paste, with a little cold water. Pour in (mixing all the time) a pint of 
boiling water, boil for ten minutes, stirring as before, and strain. It may be 
eaten with salt or sugar, according to taste. 



THIRTEENTH LESSON. 
COOKEBY— continued. 

FOODS TO BB COOKED : WHOLE BEEF-TEA — ^POTATO STTBFBISE^FBESH MUTTON 
MINCE — ^AN EGO WHIPPED AND MIXED WITH MILK OB WINE — BOILED 
BATTBB PUDDING WITHOUT AN EGO — ^BOILED CUSTABD. 

We are going to-day to cook a few dishes for sick persons wlio 
are recovering from a fever, or who have delicate digestions 
and have been ordered by the doctor to take some of the solid 
foods that are named on the slate : — * Whole beef-tea,* 
* potato surprise/ an egg whipped and then mixed with either 
milk or wine and a boiled custard. We will first make one 
pint and a half of whole beef-tea, for which we shall only 
require half the weight of fresh-killed meat. The strongest 
beef-tea, such as you made at the last lesson, had, you re- 
member, one pound of beef to one pound of water, that is, equal 
weights of both water and beef. I shall remove all fat and 
skin and cut the beef up into pieces of about an inch square, 
as we did in making the strongest beef-tea, but I shall not put 
the meat to stand in the pint and a half of cold water, only in half 
a pint, which will be a third of it. When all the juices of the 
beef have been drawn out into the half-pint of water, the beef 
must be put into a jar or saucepan with the remaining pint of 
water. When it has simmered for two hours it must all be 
poured into the cold raw juice ; the pieces of beef are again to 
2^ taken out and either chopped up very fine or pounded in 
a mortar or wooden bowl with .the end oi a xoUixij^-pia or 



BEEF-TEA. 65 

poiato-rcmsber, and added to the liot beef- tea. A wbolesome 
flayotuing for beef-tea is a piece of green celery stalk, or a 
small onion, and a few cloves may also be pnt into it. A little 
Worcester Sauce is a safe flavouring. The beef for this tea 
ought to stand in the cold water all night, and be made in 
the morning. When beef or any food has been cooked it 
loses its flavour or osmazome, because as the meat is cooking 
the steam carries 'it off. Invalids who have weak digestion 
must not eat cold meat, or much worse still, cold meat warmed 
up. However carefully a cook may warm or hash up cold 
meat, the heat she is obliged to use will draw out all the 
flavouring matter and juices that may have been lefb in the 
meat. Cold meat you know has npt the flavour it has whom 
hot and fresh-cooked. 

I am now going to teach you how to make a little dish 
called a * potato surprise.' We must first ehoose a very good 
and large potato and wash it well, cut a hole, but take care not 
to destroy the skin, as it must be left on to cover the hole up 
when we have scooped out the inside and filled it with fresh, 
juicy, lean, uncooked mutton that has been minced up fine, with 
a little pepper and salt. When the potato is baked, a little 
fresh gravy can be poured in if there is any, and the meat 
appears dry. I have bought a fine lean mutton chop. The 
&t must be cut off before I chop or mince the meat. The 
bone shall be put into a small pan with two tablespoonfuls of 
water to stew, ready to be made into a little gravy to pour into 
the potato when it is cooked. The chop might be minced, 
and gravy made from the bone and sent up on a dish with 
little pieces of toasted bread put round in the gravy, instead of 
putting it into the potato. 

Doctors always ask whether eggs agree with their patients 
before they order them to eat them, as some people cannot 
digest eggs in any form, even when they are in good health. 
It is a pity when this is the case, as an egg is a most nourishing 
food. A great deal depends upon the way an egg is cooked. 
Dr. Chambers has drawn up the following list to show the 
best way of cooking an egg for an invalid or a person who has 
a weak stomach. 



66 THIRTEENTH LESSON. 

DigeitibUity of Eggs} 

Time to Digest. 

Hours. 

Eggs whipped and mixed with milk or wine . H 

Eggs, fresh raw 2 

„ Soft-boiled 3 

Hard-boiled . ..... . . 3^ 

Fried 3^ 






We shall find by studying this list that an Qg^^ like beef, 
milk, and all other foods, is most nourishing and digests in 
the shortest time when the albumen has not been hardened 
and the flavour and juices have not been carried off by too 
much heat. Heat cooks our food by making it tender, and by 
separating it so that the teeth can chop it up, and the saliva 
in the mouth can completely mix with it. After an egg has 
been beaten up or whipped, it is not a raw egg, because it has 
been cooked by the heat made in beating it, and the beating 
has separated every part so that the saliva can mix with it. 
If I had a very delicate thermometer I could show you how 
many degrees of heat had been made by the force used in 
beating the egg, because the quicksilver would rise several 
degrees when it was put into the beaten egg. As you were 
taught at a previous lesson how to beat an egg properly, I 
will beat this egg and mix it with two tablespoonfuls of new 
milk and half a teaspoonful of sugar, just to show you how 
to prepare an egg in the most digestible way, according to 
Dr. Chambers's egg list. Wine can be used instead of the 
milk when ordered. 

You see that a perfectly raw egg digests taore quickly 
than a soft-boiled one, because none of the juices have been 
taken away, nor the albumen hardened. A hard-boiled egg 
and a fried one are equally indigestible, and take the same 
long time to digest — ^three hours and a half! 

I taught you how to cook an egg so that it should never 
boil, at the third lesson. Baked puddings with eggs are very 
indigestible, because the whole of the egg becomes very much 
hardened by being baked for so long a time. I will now 



> 



Dr, CbamheiB^B Diet: in Eealih and Luecue. 



EGGS. &? 

make a small batter ptidding without eggs. I sball require 
three teaspoonfuls of flour, one pint of new milk, one pinch of 
salt, and flavour it with ginger and nutmeg. A custard can 
be eaten with this pudding or a little wine used as sauce. A 
custard if properly made is a very nourishing and digestible 
dish, because neither the Qg^ nor the milk are allowed to boil. 
We will make a custard in this little white preserve jar, and 
put it into this large saucepan, so that it cannot come up to 
boiling point. Though the custard in the jar cannot boil, it 
would be spoiled if we do not watch very carefully and take 
the jar out of the boiling water directly we feel by stirring that 
the custard is growing thick. Directly a custard becomes 
lumpy it is spoiled, because it shows that the egg has sepa- 
rated from the milk. Quantities : the yolks of two eggs, half 
a pint of milk, one teaspoonf ul of sugar, and a bay -leaf. 

A potato surprise, batter pudding, and custard would be 
a nice Uttle dinner to send up to an invalid. I shall arrange 
the tray for carrying it as prettily as possible, with a little 
flower or a few green leaves placed in a little pot of some kind 
to stand in the centre. 

Apparatus, 
No. 9 Sheet, Digestibility of Eggs. 

Questiona for Thirteenth Lesson* 

1. Why ought invalids or delicate people not to eat cold meat, or 

cold meat that has been warmed up or hashed ? 

2. Why is an egg that has been beaten or whipped a cooked egg ? 

3. Why is a whipped egg very easily digested ? 

4. How would you arrange a little tray upon which you were going to 

carry a dinner to an invalid ? 

Receipts for Thirteenth Lesson. 

Wholb Beef Tea.. — | of a pound of lean beef. Bemove all skin and 
gristle, and cut up into pieces an inch square, place in a basin with half a 
pint of cold water, and let them stand for about 1 hour, until the cold 
water has drawn out all the juices. The pieces of beef should then be taken 
out of this water and put into ajar with 1 pint of cold water, and the jar be 
put into a pan of boiling water for 2 hours, when the cold half -pint of juice 
in which the beef stood must be poured m\A \i\ift \iCk\.'\^^^\Afti^^SX\& ^<if^% 
of beef taken out and pounded well in a mox^AT, oic \S. \Jftsrt^ SaxiaTassi5»!fe«k 



68 THIBTEENTH LESSON. 

in a clean wooden bowl, with the end of a rolling-pin or potato-cmsher ; 
then add them to the hot beef-tea, flavour with a little salt, and a stalk of 
green celery or a small onion and a few cloves. 

Custard. — Yolks of 2 fresh eggs beaten up well and mixed with ^ pint 
of new milk, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and 1 bay leaf. Put all into a jar, which 
should stand in a saucepan of boiling water. Stir the custard the whole 
time. Directly it begins to thicken, take the jar out of the boiling water and 
keep stirring for five minutes. 

An Egg beaten up wrrn Milk ob Wine. — First beat up a whole fresh 
egg, and then add either 2 tablespoonfuls of new milk, or sherry wine if 
ordered. Some people may like a little sugar. 

Minced Mutton. — Take a fresh mutton chop or any fresh kan mutton. 
Kemove all fat and flesh from bone, chop the lean very finely, flavour to 
taste with pepper and salt. Cook the mince in a little jar covered over for 
half an hour in a pan of boiling water, let the bone with 2 tablespoonfuls 
of water be simmering to make a little gravy to add to the mince. When 
served up, little pieces of toasted bread can be put round the dish in the 
gravy. 

Potato Surprise, taken from Dr. Chambers's book on ' Diet in Health 
and Disease.' — Choose a large potato, brush and wash quite clean, scoop out 
the inside, taking care to leave a piece of skin on to cover the hole. Take 
a fine mutton chop, cut off all the meat, mince the lean very fine, and flavour 
with pepper and salt ; then flll the potato with the mince, cover up the 
hole and bake the potato. If the mince is dry, a little gravy can be 
added. 

Boiled Batter without Ego. — Three tablespoonfuls of flour, I pint of 
new milk, 1 pinch of salt ; flavour with ginger and nutmeg. 

Boiled Batter Pudding with Eggs. — Whisk 2 eggs to a froth, then 
add 3 tablespoonfuls of flour and 2 tablespoonfuls of milk. Beat the batter 
until it is perfectly smooth ; then add 1 pint of milk and a pinch of salt. 
Boil in a buttered basin or floured cloth one hour. 

Dry Toast. — Cut a slice of bread, at least half-an-inch thick, off a loaf 
of very light bread that is neither quite new nor stale. Toast it very 
quickly before a hot, bright flre, then cut off the crust, divide it if the 
slice is large, and place the pieces upright. If they lie flat the toast 
becomes tough and indigestible, because the moisture cannot get out 
through the toasted part — only through the soft sides. Toast should be 
eaten directly it is made or it is not good. Thin -hard toast contains 
veryJittle nourishment, and like a hard biscuit is indigestible. When 
bread is toasted slowly before a poor fire it always becomes hard and flinty, 
though the slices are not cut thin. 



GBLATINB. — MEAT STOCK. 69 



FOURTEENTH LESSON. 

COOKERY—cmUintied, 

KBIT STOCK, — yBGBTABLB SOUP MADE OF MEAT STOCK — SOUP WITHOUT 
BUTCHBB's MBAT — BAKED BOLL TREACLB PUDDIKO. 

Befobb we begin to cook I wish joa again to examine the 
contents of these five bottles, which hold all the principal 
substances to be f onnd in beef or butcher's meat. If I were 
to boil beef or any butcher's meat for a very long time I could 
boil away all the good substances except one, which is the 
toughest and least digestible, called ' gelatine,' — here it is in 
this bottle. The gelatine we buy in packets to make jelly or 
to stiffen any dish like blanc-mange is the same substance. 
Some meats contAin more gelatine than others. There is a 
great deal of gelatine in bone ; the gelatine in this packet 
is made from bone. Gelatine is nourishing when mixed up 
with different substances, as we find it in meat ; but it is not 
nourishing when eaticn by itself, and only takes away the 
appetite ; for this reason do not give delicate patients jelly 
which is almost entirely made of gelatine. I shall try and 
show you how a great deal of the best food is wasted and 
made very indigestible because cooks do not understand what 
kind of a substance gelatine really is. 

The first food to be prepared to-day is called stock. Meat- 
stock is only the water in which meat has been boiled. As 
this water must contain some of the flavouring matter, juices, 
Ac, that have come out of the meat, and also some fat that is 
melted during the cooking, a good cook never throws this 
water away, but pours it directly^ while it is hot, into a clean 
pan. When it is cold she takes off the fat that rises to the 
top and uses it for making cakes, &c., after clarifying it accord- 
ing to the following directions : — Put the fat, when cold, into 
a jar in the oven until melted, then pour it off into a clean 
jar. The top part will be clean, the water and bits having 
fallen to the bottom. The cook uses t\iQ "ss^tiec \sl VdmSss^V^^^ 
meat was cooked as a stock of food TeeA^ \.o Taa)«a \xj^<^ ^5»2t^ ^ 



70 FOURTEENTH LESSON. 

or into soup, by adding vegetables, &o. Soups are mnch 
more nonrishing when made with vegetables ; the vegetables 
ought to be well done, and, if possible, cooked separately, 
and then put into the meat-stock. If the meat-stock and 
the vegetables are cooked together some of the stock is wasted, 
because it simmers away while the vegetables are cooking. 
I prepared some stock yesterday. The stock in this glass jar 
was made with a pound of meat and three pints of water. 
I put the stock when made into a glass jar that you might see 
how clear the jelly is, and that a pint of good stock has been 
made. This stock is clear because I washed the meat and 
bones quite clean in hot water, and put them into a perfectly 
clean saucepan, with cold water of course, as the juices have 
to be brought out into the soup. This stock is very nourish- 
ing, because the meat was never allowed to boil. If soup boils 
the albumen in the meat becomes hardened and rises in little 
white bits to the top and makes what is called scum. Even 
if the soup does not boil a scum will rise if the meat and 
saucepan are not spotlessly clean, for any bits of food that 
were sticking to the sides and bottom of the pan come off, 
stick to the albumen, and rise with it to the top. 

I will now show you some stock made with exactly the 
same quantity of meat and bone, cooked according to a receipt 
given by a professed cook, which was that the meat was to 
BOIL (212°) for two hours. During some of the time the 
saucepan lid was to be removed, in order that the scum might 
be taken off to make the stock clear. At the end of the two 
hours which I had spent by the hot fire in watching the pot 
and in skimming the top to remove the albumen, I found I had 
only made this little piece of gelatine that just covers the 
palm of my hand, instead of all this clear, nourishing stock, 
which fills this glass jar. An ignorant cook would tell you 
that this stiff stock is very strong and nourishing, but a doctor 
would tell you that if a man, woman, child, or dog, were to 
be fed on nothing else for some time, they would first suffer 
from diarrhoea and then die of starvation. I should recom- 
mend all cooks who wish to make their stock, soups, or any 
drs£ rerjr stiff*, to buy some gelatine sold in packets and add 
^ ^o the stock, or any food they wishi to xosik^ «\aS^ \Tk&\fi!dj^ 



BOILING MEAT* 71 

of minuig the meat and wasting their time in trying to send 
away all the other good substances it contains np the chimney 
in order to make a small quantity of gelatine that can be 
bonght cheap in packets. Everyone, and cooks particularly, 
ought to read the following directions given this year about 
soup-making, and the proper meat that should be used for 
cooking, as it shows how much the poor suffer in public insti- 
tutions owing to the ignorance of cooks. When bones are 
used to make soup they ought to be cooked for some time 
alone, and then be added to the meat, as the gelatine in the 
bone requires a long time to dissolve, and greater heat. 

* Meat — As a general rule, beef is the most economical 
form of animal food, when its price is considered in relation 
to the nourishment which it affords. It is richer in osmazome 
than mutton, and the fact that, as a general rule, it is more 
satisfying to the stomach, is one which should not be over- 
looked. Mutton is, on the whole, more digestible than beef, 
and is better adapted to the requirements of invalids. We 
therefore recommend beef for healthy prisoners at labour, and 
mutton for the sick in hospital. 

' It appears to be overlooked at some of the prisons that 
good soup and good cooked meat cannot be prepared by the 
same process. 

* When the object of " boiling *' meat is not to make soup 
but to retain the utmost amount of nutriment in the meat 
itself, large pieces of it should be plunged for a few minutes 
into boiling water, so as quickly to produce a cortex of hard- 
ened animal fibre, and it should then be cooked as slowly 
as possible at a temperature never exceeding 160° or 165° 
Fahrenheit. If the temperature be much lower than 160** 
the albumixLoid substances do not coagulate, and the meat is 
not cooked. When the temperature is kept above 170° the 
muscular tissue shrinks^ and the meat is rendered hard and 
indigestible. 

* As the quantity of meat issued to a prisoner should not 
be more than is absolutely necessary, it is of the highest im- 
portance that it should be turned to the best account, and that 
the **^ ounces " in the diet table should b^ ^bOfcoaJX^ ^^^^^'sj^JsR^i. 
by properly cooked and digestible mesk.t m >2ti^ ^cssiXiR?t ^gcdl. 



?2 FOURTEENTH LESSON. 

'A prevalent fault in prison kitchens is, that ezoessive 
heat is used and the meat converted into a condensed shrunken 
mass of little or no nutritive value. We think it right to ex- 
press ourselves strongly on this subject, on account of its 
great importance, and we must point out that it is useless to 
provide good meat unless such care be taken in cooking as to 
retain its nutritive properties in the highest possible degree.^ 

' But whatever care may be taken in cooking meat, a por- 
tion of its juices and salts will escape into the broth, and we 
recommend that this be served tip with the meat to which it 
belongs. When the meat is served up on one day and the 
broth on another, as is sometimes done, the organism is de- 
prived for a time of a portion of those principles which it is 
the object of the meat ration to supply. The " salts " of the 
meat are as essential to nutriment as its nitrogen or carbon.' ' 

The two soups we are going to make to-day shall contain 
all the three foods we must eat daily to be strong — viz., 
* body-warmers,' * flesh-formers,' and * mineral foods.' One 
soup will be made of meat-stock and vegetables, and the other 
will be made with vegetables and no butcher's meat. We 
will now wash the vegetables and cut them up ; the quantities 
of vegetables to be added to the meat-stock will be six ounces. 
The vegetables we shall use will be carrots, turnips, onions, 
and celery. The stock I have prepared was made of two 
pounds of meat and bone (shin of beef or brisket), and four 
pints of water, simmered for four hours. The vegetable soup 
will be made as follows : — ^Two pints of water, two ounces of 
green peas (carrots or any vegetable will do), one onion, one 
lettuce. All the vegetables must be cut up fine. If carrots 
are used they should be scraped (carrot soup is the nicest of 
all vegetable soups). To this must be added two cold pota- 
toes, or uncooked ones, one tablespoonful of flour or oatmeal, 
mixed up with two ounces of dripping, half a teaspoonful of 
sugar, some salt and pepper, half a pint of milk ; the milk to 

> The thermometer will be found usefiil in showing the cooks that the 
temperature is often much higher than they suppose. 

2 Taken from a copy of the Keport of the Committee appointed to in- 
galre into the Dietariea in Prisons in England and Wales, 1878. (Signed) 
SirSelwyn Ibbotaon, 



SOUP.— PBBSBRYB OB TBEACLB ROLY POLY. 73 

be added when the vegetables are done.^ Milk is not necessary 
for the sonp, only it makes it more nourishing. These must 
all simmer gently for nearly an hour, and then the soup will 
be quite ready to be eaten. Split or dried peas require a 
much longer time — about two hours — and this is the most 
nourishing soup of all. 

As there are so many cooks we shall soon prepare the 
vegetables. Remember when you clean the carrot you must 
scrape very little off, as the most nutritious part lies under the 
thin skin. The turnip has a very thick skin, so you must take 
off about one eighth of an inch, or the thickness of two 
pennies. The first meat-soup is the famous pot-au-feu that 
the French make. They put the meat and vegetables all on 
together very early in the morning into a strong stewpan 
with a good lid, and let the soup cook slowly for four hours, 
so that it is ready when they come home to their dinners. 
They put it on a stove, not on a fire, so that it can be safely 
lefb, as it never boils as our pans do. The French, Germans, 
and Russians, rich and poor, have some kind of soup every day. 

To-day we are going to make a baked treacle roly poly. 
We say treacle, but of course we use golden syrup, which is 
treacle that has been made clean and clear. It is ofben more 
convenient to bake or steam rather than boil a pudding, be- 
cause these puddiQgs do not require a cloth. At our next 
lesson we will steam a fruit pudding and make a baked rhu- 
barb or apple pudding. 

The great secret of making a good baked pudding is to 
have fresh juicy fruit, put plenty of sugar in, and let the 
pudding be well baked for about two hours in an oven the 
right heat, such as pastry requires. If properly done the 
pudding should turn out of the basin or mould very brown, 
and covered with a thick, rich juice. A baked fruit pudding 
should never be sent to table dry and a light colour. The 
crust is often made too thick, and baked too quickly. 

Becei^t for Preserve or Treacle Eoly Poly, — Mix 3 oz. of 
finely chopped suet with half a pound of dry flour, about two 
tablespoonfuls of cold water, and a pinch of salt ; roll out to 

' Dr. Chambers's Diet in Health aixd DUecx;^. 



74 FOURTEENTH LESSON.' 

the thickness of about half an inch. A tablespoonf nl of fine 
bread-crumbs to be mixed with as much treacle as will thickly 
cover the paste. If the treacle is spread alone over the paste, 
being thin or liquid, it runs out ; a few bread-crumbs make 
the treacle thick enough to spread about a quarter of an inch 
deep over the paste. Wet the edge of the paste with cold 
water, roll it up, and press the edges firmly together ; lay it 
in a dripping tin, and bake slowly for about one hour and 
a half. Some people prefer the crust to be made of dripping. 
Receipt for Baked Fruit Plodding, — Suet crust made exactly 
like the above, and rolled out to the same thickness. Rub a 
basin inside with either dripping or butter, sprinkle with 
sugar, and then line with paste, and fill it to the top with 
either rhubarb or apples, cut to the size of an inch. Add two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, cover over with a crust wetted 
round the edge with cold water, and press it to the lining. 
Bake for about two hours in a moderate oven. A boiled or 
steamed pudding is made in exactly the same way. In the 
case of the steamed pudding, care must be taken to keep the 
water under the steamer constantly boiling, and, of course, the 
water must boil before the pudding is put into the steamer, 
In making either a boiled or steamed pudding, the cook must 
remember not to put any sugar in the bottom of the basin, as 
is done in a baked pudding. A baked pudding, like a loaf of 
bread, should first be put on the bottom part of the oven, and 
then lifted on to the top shelf to brown. 

Apparatus and Articles Required. 

Component parts of beef. 

Glass jar with clear stock. 

Stock prepared so that only the gelatine is left. 

Stock enough for the meat soup. 

Packet of gelatine. 

Questions for Fourteenth Lesson, 

1. Why ought the water or stock in which any fresh butcher's meat or 

vegetables have been boiled (except potatoes in their skins) never 

to be thrown away, but poured while it is hot into a clean jug or 

hasin ? 

J^. What ia the white substance called acum, wad"w\iy do^a It. rvaa to the 

top of the water in which butcher's meat ox '^ege^iS^A^B ^T^\i^"i\fi^t 



SOUPS. — PRBSEBVB OR TEBACLB BOLT POLY. 75 

3. Why do doctors seldom allow a nurse to give jelly to patients, 

who are very weak or have delicate stomachs ? 

4. Tell me how you would make a soup with meat so that it should con- 

tain 'body-warmers/ 'flesh-formers/ and 'mineral foods;' also a 
soup that should contain these three things without any meat? 

Receipts for Fourteenth Lesson. 

Meat Soxtp. — Stock made of 2 lbs. of fresh meat and bone ; shin of beef 
is suitable, or brisket, and 4 pints of water, simmered 4 hours ; 6 oz. in all of 
the following vegetables — carrots, turnips, onions, and celery. 

Vbqbtablb Soup. — Two pints of water, 2 oz. of green peas (carrots or 
any vegetables will do), 1 onion, 1 lettuce. All these vegetables must be 
cut up fine ; if carrots are used, they should be scraped (carrot soup is the 
nicest of all vegetable soups). To this must be added 2 cold potatoes, or 
uncooked ones, 1 tablespoonful of flour or oatmeal, mixed up with 2 oz. of 
dripping, half a teaspoonful of sugar, some salt and pepper, half a pint of 
milk. The milk to be added when the vegetables are done. Milk is not 
neoeesaiy for the soup, only it makes it more nourishing. These must all 
simmer gently for nearly an hour, and then the soup will be quite ready to 
be eaten. Split or dried peas require a much longer time (about 2 hours), 
and this is the most nourishing soup of all. 

Full directions about making stock on page 69. 

Pbbsebve ob Tbbaclb Bolt Poly. — ^Mix 3 oz. of finely-chopped suet 
with half a pound of dry fiour, about 2 tablespoonfuls of cold water, and a 
pinch of salt. Boll out to the thickness of about half an inch. A table- 
spoonful of fine bread-crumbs to be mixed with as much treacle as will 
thickly cover the paste. If the treacle is spread alone over the paste, being 
thin or liquid, it runs out ; a few bread-crumbs make the treacle thick 
enough to spread about a quarter of an inch deep over the paste. Wet 
the edge of the paste with cold water, roll it up, and press the edges firmly 
together ; lay it in a dripping tin and bake slowly for about one hour and a 
half. Some people prefer the crust to be made of dripping. 

Baked Fbuit PuDDnra. — Suet crust made exactly like the above, 
and roUed out to the same thickness. Bub a basin inside with either 
dripping or butter, sprinkle with sugar, and then line with paste, and fill 
it to the top with either rhubarb or apples cut to the size of an inch. Add 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar, cover over with a crust wetted round the edge 
with cold water, and press it to the lining. Bake for about two hours in 
a moderate oven. A boiled or steamed pudding is made in exactly the 
same way. In the case of the steamed pudding, care must be taken to 
keep the water under the steamer constantly boiling, and, of course, the 
water must boil before the pudding is put into the steamer. In making 
either a boiled or steamed pudding the cook must remember not to put any 
sugar in the bottom of the basin, as is done in a baked pudding. A baked 
pudding, like a loaf of bread, should first be '^\3i.\i QTL\\i!b\^\XsrBv'<^&s^.^'^ssA 
oven, and then lifted on to the top sheAf t.o'bxo^Ti. ' 



76 FIFTEENTH LESSON. 



FIFTEENTH LESSON. 

COOKEBY^continued, 

FBA SOUP — ON BOILINQ BOILED RABBIT Ain> OKION SAUCE, OB BOILED 

HEAT OR BACON — HASTT FX7DDING AND TREACLE — CLEAN AND TRUSS A 
FOWL. 

Peas are a most nourishing food because they contain a great 
many substances that form flesh. As they do not contain 
many substances that contain fat, called ' body- warmers,' 
they ought to be cooked with some fat meat, either pork or 
bacon. The stock we are going to make our pea soup of 
to-day is the water some bacon was boiled in yesterday. When 
peas and fat are cooked together they make an excellent hot 
dinner for people who are working hard out of doors in winter 
time. Split peas are the best kind ; they should be soaked 
overnight in cold water. The bad peas will float on the top of 
the water like bad eggs, and should be removed. It is better 
to cook the peas by themselves until they are tender, and then 
add the peas and the water they have been boiled in to the 
stock and the other vegetables, and simmer together for two 
hours. The peas and bacon can, of course, be cooked together 
for three or four hours if there is no time to soak the peas 
overnight. The soup to-day will be made of the following 
ingredients : — Two quarts of stock, one quart of split peas, 
one head of celery, four onions, two carrots, and two turnips ; 
all to be chopped fine. As our peas have soaked overnight 
the soup will be ready when it has simmered for one and a 
half or two hours. 

You are now going to learn how to boil any kind of animal 
food so that all its juices shall be kept in and not brought 
out into the water. To-day we are going to boil a rabbit, that 
you may know how to clean one, and how to tell an old one 
from a young one. A young rabbit has smooth sharp claws ; 
if the rabbit is un skinned and has not been opened, you must 
cut it open and take out all that is inside, then skin it in the 
following way: — 

Babbits, dressed or nndressed, should a\Yiay^\>^ ^Y^^ "^ 



RABBITS AKD FOWLS. 11 

hot water before they are cooked. When skinned, wash the 
rabbit well in cold water and let it soak for a quarter of an 
hour in warm water to draw out the blood. Then bring the 
head round to the side of the body and fasten it there by 
means of a skewer run through the head and into the body. 
The rabbit must then be put into a pan and quite covered over 
with hoilvag water, and let it simmer until tender, which will be 
in about an hour, or three quarters of an hour. When put on 
the dish to send to table, it ought to be quite covered over 
with onion sauce. The boiling water into which the rabbit was 
put will harden the outside and keep in all the juices. 

A fowl with black legs is not so white when boiled as one 
with white ones. In order to find out whether the fowl is 
young, press the breast-bone of a fowl just at the end where 
the opening is made to clean out the inside. If this part is 
very soffc like gristle, and not hard like bone, you may be sure 
that the fowl is a young one. 

First pluck off the feathers and pull out all the hard 
pointed quills called pens, which are very numerous in young 
fowls. Then singe off the long hairs with a piece of lighted 
paper ; take out the inside. Great care must be taken not to 
break the gall bladder, which is very bitter, and if broken 
would cause the fowl to have a bitter taste and be spoiled. 
Wash the fowl well in cold water ; cut off the neck, leaving 
skin enough to skewer back ; cut the feet off to the first joint, 
tuck the stumps into a slit made on each side of the belly, twist 
the wings over the back of the fowl, and fasten the top of the 
leg and the bottom of the wing together by running a skewer 
through the wings and the body. This is called * trussiug a 
fowl.* I should always dip a fowl, ready dressed, in warm 
water before either roasting or boiling it, as poultry, like 
butcher's meat, is handled by dirty hands and put on dirty 
places, though some cooks will tell you that a fowl ought not 
to be washed at all. 

Questions for Fifteenth Lesson. 

1. Why is pea soup a good dish for cold weather ? 

2. How would you skin and clean a rabbit? 

3. How would you prepare a fowl for cooV^iv^\}MiX.V"aiiL\i'5K.\ife^\!k.^^«s^^ 

nor bad its feathers plucked? 



78 SIXTEENTH LESSON. 



Receipts for Fifteenth Lesson. 

Pba Soup. — Two quarts of stock from boiled bacon, or any stock with 
a little bacon, 1 lb. or pint of split peas, 1 head of celery, 4 onions, 2 carrots, 
and 2 turnips. All to be chopped fine and simmered. If the peas have 
soaked overnight, an hour and a half or two hours are sufficient. Pepper 
and salt to taste, and when served, add a little dried mint. 

Hasty Puddino. — Boil 1 pint of milk ; a pinch of salt. Sprinkle 
gradually into the milk about 4 tablespoonfols of flour, beating the mixture 
all the time with a fork while it is simmering, until it is rather thicker 
than batter. Then let it simmer for five minutes. 



SIXTEENTH LESSON. 

COOKEBY— continued, 

sheep's head — SUET DUMPLINGS — PICKLED CABBAGE AND ONIONS — DRIED 
HEBBS, FABSLBT, MINT, MABJOBAM, SAGE, THTMB. 

The sheep's head has been washed thoroughly as you can see ; 
it has also soaked for two hours in warm water, so as to get 
rid of the blood. It must be put into this saucepan and 
completely covered over with cold water. Directly it boils we 
will put in these vegetables when they have been cut up : 
three carrots, three turnips, three onions, sprig of parsley, a 
teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper. Mix two table- 
spoonfals of Scotch oatmeal smoothly with a little stock out 
of the pan, and then gradually stir it into the pan and keep 
stirring until the broth boils. The pan should then be taken 
off the fire and placed where it can only simmer for 6he and 
a half or two hours. Care must be taken to fasten the lid of 
the saucepan down tight. 

Suet dumplings are excellent cooked in the sheep's head 

broth. I have brought all the things ready mixed so that we 

shall only have to make the paste into dumplings and put 

^2i0m into the broth as quickly as possible, as they will take 

as long aa the broth to cook. The dumpVm^ ^T^ToaAi^ol \\y^ 



PIGKLBD CABBAGE AND ONIONS. 79 

following quantities : 1 lb. of flour, 6 oz. of suet, very finely 
chopped, a pinch of salt, and ^ pint of either milk or water. 
A suet pudding made like this is very good boiled in a long 
roly-poly shape, and when done cut into slices and put into 
the dripping pan for a minute or two, and then browned 
before the fire ; children like this very much with roast meat 
or gravy. At our next lesson we will prepare the sheep's 
head and everything we have cooked to-day for the broth, for 
you to see how to make it yourselves. 

While the broth is cooking I will show you how to pickle 
red or white cabbages, for they are the same in every way 
except in colour. We will take off* the outside leaves of this 
fresh cabbage, cut it into four quarters, take away the stalk, 
and then cut the quarters into shreds very fine, lay them on 
this dish, and cover with plenty of salt. Some people let the 
cabbage lie in the salt for twenty-four hours, but I think two 
or three hours are plenty, as the salt draws out all the juices 
and spoils the colour. I shall let it stand in the salt until I 
have boiled half-a-pint of vinegar and 1 oz. of black pepper, 
and a little sugar. I shall then squeeze the cabbage quite dry 
to get out the salt, put it into a jar, and pour the vinegar 
over it when it is cold* 

This cabbage can be eaten the next day, or it will keep, if 
the jar is covered over, for several weeks. 

Pickled Onions, — 1 lb. of small pickling onions, 1 pint of 
vinegar, ^ oz. of pepper, a little ginger. Take care the onions 
are quite ripe ; the stalks are then dry and fall off*. Ripe 
onions when pickled will keep for a year, but unripe ones not 
for more than a short time. Peel the onions and wash in cold 
salt and water, in which they must stand for one hour. Half 
the quantity of vinegar is to simmer for half an hour with the 
•pepper and ginger, then to be poured through a sieve, and 
added to the cold vinegar, and poured over the onions. Cover 
up the jar, and do not use for three months. 

It is now the time of year for storing up dried herbs such 
as thyme, marjoram, sage, parsley, and mint, for winter use. 
I have taken care that the herbs are quite fresh and ripe, 
just rinsed in a little cold water. When all the leaves have 
been stripped off the stems ttiey xcm&\» \i^ ^^ ^"^ ^^^eaw^Rk 



80 SIXTEENTH LESSON, 

pieces of white paper in the oven, or on the top oi the oven, 
and left there until all the leaves have become crisp and dry, 
so that they can be rubbed through a sieve. Should there 
be no sieve the leaves may be rubbed between the hands 
into a fine powder, if the hands are very clean and quite dry. 
The bottles are labelled ready to receive four kinds of herbs. 
If the bottles are corked their contents will keep for a year. 
Some people have an untidy habit of keeping dried herbs 
wrapped up in paper. 

At the end of this lesson I shall give you some questions 
which I am sure you will be able to answer, as you have been 
learning daring the last year the use of the different kitchen 
utensils that are mentioned in the questions. I will now tell 
you how you can keep bread so that the crust shall not 
become soffc. After the bread has been baked and become 
quite cold, it ought to be kept in an earthenware pan that 
stands in a dry cool place, covered with a lid that has holes in 
it ; a wooden lid is best, because china ones so easily break* 
If the earthenware pan is not glazed, air will pass through 
the pan. Flour is a food that is eaten by germs that are always 
floating in the air and ready to fall into any food they like, 
particularly if the food is a little damp. If flour were kept in 
a damp cupboard it would soon become very damp and fall of 
mites and living germs. We mast therefore take great care 
that the jar that holds the flour shall stand in a dry place and 
shall keep out the air and the little living germs in the air. 
The jar should be covered with glaze outside, because the 
glaze prevents the air from getting in, and the lid should have 
no holes. An earthenware jar prevents the flour from sinking 
into any holes or comers, as it does into the comers of a 
wooden box or a tin box. A jar can also be easily washed out 
once a week, and above all be easily made jperfectly dry. 
If the bread is kept in a wooden box, when it is washed the 
water runs into the comers and into the wood, and takes a 
very long time to get perfectly dry. I am glad that we have 
found during our lessons that the cheapest utensils are the 
best and sweetest. 



COOKING UTENSILS. 



81 



Questions for Sixteenth Lesson. 

1. Tell me how many of the following cooking utensils a working man's 
wife ought to have. The price of each utensil is given. How 
much money would it take to buy all you think she would want? 



Price each. 




Price each. 




s. 


d. 






8. 


d. 


Iron saucepans from l8.9d. 






Paste-board 




I 


2 


to .... 


. 3 





Pepper-box 







4 


Thick iron frying-pan 


. 1 


6 


Hand brnsh 







6 


Thick gridiron . 


. 3 





Scrubbing brush 







6 


Iron kettle 


. 4 


6 


Soap box 







6 


Eottle-jack 


. 10 


6 


Black-lead brush 







8 


Dripping-pan . 


. 1 


3 


Earthenware bread-pan, 






Yorkshire pudding tin 


. 


8 


with wooden lid with holes 


1 


6 


Wooden spoons . 


. 


2 


Earthenware pan 


for flour, 






Iron spoons 


. 


3 


glazed, with wooden lid 






Knife-box 


2 





without holes 


. . 


1 


4 


Colander (tin) , 


. 1 


6 


Brown jars for 


holding 






Dredging-boz . 


. 1 





sugar, rice, and all gro- 






Wooden bowl . 


2 


4 


ceries 


• • 





4 


Boiling-pin 


. 


4 


Steamer . 


• • 


2 






2. What kind of saucepans do you think are the safest, strongest, and 

most easily kept sweet and clean ? 

3. What is the best material for making the kitchen cloths and dusters 

that are required in a cottage home ? How many would a yard 
make ? What number would be wanted for a week's use and a 
change, and how much would they all cost? 

4. Why is an earthenware pan the best to keep bread so that the crust 

shall not become soft ? Why should the lid (made of wood) 
always be kept on, and have some holes in it ? A pan like this is 
also the best for keeping cheese. 
6. Why is an earthenware jar that is glazed inside, and has a tight- 
fltting lid without holes, the best for keeping flour ? 



Receipts for Sixteenth Lesson, 

Pickled Onions. — 1 lb. of small pickling onions, 1 pint of vinegar, 
J oz. of pepper, a little ginger. Take care the onions are quite ripe ; the 
stalks are then dry and fall off. Bipe onions when pickled will keep for a 
year, but not if unripe for more than a short time. Peel the onions and 
wash in cold salt and water, in which they must stand for one hour. Half 
the quantity of vinegar is to simmer for half an hour with the pepper and 



82 SEYBNTEENTH LESSON. 

ginger, then to be poured through a sieve and added to the cold vinegar 
and poured over the onions. Cover up the jar, and do not use for three 
months. 

Sheep's Head B&oth. — The sheep's head to be washed thoroughly, and 
to soak for 2 hours in warm water to get rid of the blood, then put into a 
saucepan and completely cover with cold water. Directly it boils put in 
the following vegetables, when they have been cut up: 3 carrots, 3 turnips, 
3 onions, sprig of parsley, a teaspoonfol of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper. 
Mix 2 tablespoonfuls of Scotch oatmeal smoothly with a little stock out of 
the pan, then gradually stir it into the pan, and keep stirring until the 
broth boils. The pan should then be taken off the fire and put where it 
can only simmer for one and a half or two hours. Care must be taken to 
fasten the lid of the saucepan down tight. 

SuBT Dtjmplikgs. — 1 lb. of flour, 6 oz. of suet, very finely chopped, a 
pinch of salt, and ^ pint of either milk or water. Dumpling to be boiled in 
the sheep's head broth. 



SEVENTEENTH LESSON. 

COOKEBY— continued. 

KACABONI WITH CHEESE — A MOULD OF SEMOLINA— COCOA — COFFEE — 

FOBBIDOE. 

Before ^e cook the macaroni we will again look at the 
principal substances contained in a pound of flour. Gluten 
and all the flesh-formers are, you see, placed together. 
Grluten is the same substance as albumen. Macaroni is 
made chiefly of gluten that has been taken out of wheaten 
flour, and is a very nourishing flesh-former. It is very easily 
cooked, and not expensive, because a small quantity swells 
very much with cooking. Two ounces make a good-sized 
dish. The best kind is sold in straight sticks, and is eight- 
pence per pound. We will break these two ounces of long 
sticks into pieces of about four inches, and put them into this 
saucepan of boiling water, with a little salt, where they will 
have plenty of room to swell. Place the pan where the mac- 
oaxom can simmer, and cook gently. When it is quite tender 
I shall take it out, spread it on a flat diah, oAd «. little ^e^per 



TEA, COCOA, COPPEB. 83 

and salt, scrape two ounces of new Cheshire cheese all over 
the top, and put it in front of the fire to brown. This dish is 
yeiy nourishing, as cheese is also a flesh-former. 

Semolina is roughly-ground wheat of a hard kind that 
contains a great deal of gluten and is very nutritious, because 
besides gluten it has all the other good things which wheat 
possesses. I shall put one tablespoonful into half a pint of 
milk, sweeten with two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and let it 
simmer very gently on the top of the oven for half an hour. 
It must be well stirred for the first ten minutes. As soon as 
it is ready I shall pour it into this basin that has been well 
rinsed out with cold water. When the semolina is cold it will 
turn out, and be very nice eaten with treacle, sugar, or pre- 
serve. Semolina is also very good eaten hot. In the summer 
time cold moulds made in the same way of whole or ground 
rice are very nice. 

Bevalenta arabica is ground lentils, and is very nutritious. 

I have brought the substances contained in one pound of 
tea and one pound of cocoa to show you, so that you may see 
how much more nourishment there is in cocoa than there is 
in tea. Coffee contains the same substances as tea, except 
caffeine, which is the flavouring matter of coffee. Cocoa 
contains two body-warmers — cocoa-butter and some starch, 
also some flesh-formers — gluten, Ac. 

Theobromine is the flavouring matter that soothes people's 
nerves, just as the theine and caffeine do in tea and coffee. 
Like all flavouring matter it is very delicate, and is spoiled if 
boiled ; for this reason we never allow tea, coffee, or cocoa to 
be put on the fire ; only pour boiling water over them. The 
best cocoa is Epps's cocoa nibs, and should be made in the 
following way. 

Oocoa.— Nibs are 1*. 4c2. per lb. (this cocoa is of course 
quite genuine). 1 oz. of nibs to 3 pints of water ; stew gently 
in a jar in the oven 1^ hour, or on the top of the oven to 
simmer for 3 or 4 hours. It is very good taken with half 
the quantity of boiling milk, or less if preferred ; sweeten to 
taste. Some people will put the jar of cocoa in the oven all 
night to bo ready for breakfast. When eo^o^ \&\siS6&!^ ^ssscv 



84 SEVENTEENTH LESSON. 

the packet which is ground cocoa a teaspoonfal is pat into the 
cap and boiling water is poured on to it and well stirred. 
Milk is added to taste. 

You all know how to make a cup of tea, but not many 
English people can make a good cup of coffee. I will teach 
you how to make it as it is made in France, Germany, and 
Russia, where rich and poor take it instead of tea for their 
breakfast. They never put it on the fire to boil any more 
than tea, but have a coffee-pot like this, which has a little 
strainer in the middle upon which the coffee rests. The 
boiling water that is poured into it passes over the coffee 
and falls into the bottom part. You can take off the top part 
where the coffee dregs are, and put the lid over the under 
pan and send it to table. 

The very best coffee is spoiled and disagreeable if it is not 
very hot. The first thing will be to take care that the coffee 
pot is made very hot by pouring boiling water into it. When 
it has. been poared out I shall put in two tablespoonfuls of 
coffee, and then take care to pour boiling water over the 
coffee and place the pot, while the water is running through, 
on the top of the oven, or where it can be kept very hot. 
The milk must also be very hot, though not boiling. The 
French half fill the cup with milk and then pour in the coffee. 
This with sugar is a very nourishing drink. This coffee-pot 
cost 2^., and can be bought at any respectable tinman's 
shop. 

This is your last lesson of the course, which has lasted a 
year. During these lessons I have endeavoured to teach you 
that even strong people who have done growing cannot be 
healthy unless they eat three kinds of food daily — viz. ' body- 
warmers,* ' flesh- formers,' and * mineral foods ' — and that 
these different foods will not nourish every part of the body 
unless they are cooked so that all the substances they contain 
are kept in and the food is made tender. If food is cooked 
with too little heat the food is tough and indigestible, and if 
too much heat be used the food is also made tough and the 
osmazome or flavouring matter is carried away, which is the 
jsahstoDce that tempta an invalid or a delicate person to 
ea4 o>nd gives him the power to digeat tla.© ioo^\i^ \iaa \i««EL 



DIFFERENT KINDS OF FOODS. 85 

tempted to eat. All kinds of food are best eaten fresh, be- 
cause the air, or the oxygen gas in the air, soon gets into 
them and spoils their jflavour and changes their nature. 

All foods, as you have seen by examining the contents of 
milk, flour, eggs, beef, potatoes, coffee, tea, and cocoa, contain 
some water — just the quantity of course that is required 
to mix all the different substances together. You will find 
that the foods that change or go bad the most quickly are 
those that have the greatest quantity of water. For instance, 
milk, butcher's meat, fresh vegetables and fruit, very soon go 
bad, and contain an immense quantity of water. Wheat, oats, 
tea, coffee, or cocoa have very little water — only from 1 oz. to 
1^ oz. in a pound. When some foods are preserved the water 
is sent out in steam by great heat, and the flavouring matter 
and some of the juices must go out with the steam. Butcher's 
meat is made to keep by rubbing salt over it, which draws 
out the water and juices. Salt beef, ham, bacon, <fec., will 
keep for a long time, because the water, juices, <fec., run out 
into the salt brine, which is thrown away. Yerj salt meat is 
a dear food, because when it is eaten it does not make good 
pure blood that can feed and strengthen every part of the 
body. Salt meat should always be eaten with a good quan- 
tity of potatoes, or any fresh vegetables or fruit, all of which 
contain the mineral foods that have been drawn out by the 
salt. Our sailors still suffer from scurvy on long voyages, 
because they are obliged to eat salt meat without potatoes or 
any fresh vegetables or fruit. It is not the salt that gives 
the scurvy : it is the meat without its juices and minerals 
which causes this terrible disease. 

Milk is preserved in tins by using great heat, that drives 
out the steam or water. A great quantity of white sugar is 
put into the Swiss milk, which makes it thick and prevents 
it from going bad. A mother's milk contains some sugar, but 
it is quite a different kind of sugar from that we make. The 
sugar that is manufactured sometimes ferments in the stomach 
and turns sour, but the sugar in a mother's milk does not. 
Children who are fed on this preserved milk will sometimes 
grow very fat, because the sugar turns into fat m tha bcsd^ . 
Children grow fat that are fed on Wxa io^Wvc^%^<^^^^^"^^"^^^*'^ 



86 SEVENTEENTH LESSON, 

contain nothing but starch, and starch, like sugar, is changed 
into fat : — 



Oswego. 
Maizena. 
Corn-flour. 
Arrowroot. 
Cassava meal. 
Potato-starch. 
Sago. 
Sago meal. 



Salep. 

Tacca starch or Otaheite 

arrowroot. 
Tapioca. 
Tapioca meal or Brazilian 

Arrowroot. 
Tous-le-mois (West Indian). 



Though the infant or child looks fat, and the nurse is 
very proud of its great size and very much astonished that 
such a fine child cannot walk when it gets to be a year old, 
directly the doctor sees the poor fat baby he knows it has 
been starved or pined by being fed on only one kind of food, 
that could 'not make bone, muscle, flesh, or nerves, only fat. 
He then tells the mother that her child has a complaint called 
'rickets,' which may make it a cripple for life, or leave it 
with poor, weak, crooked legs. If people who have done 
growing cannot be strong and healthy unless th^ eat daily 
* body- warmers,* * flesh-formers,* and mineral foods, how is 
it possible for a growing infant to be strong unless it has all 
these foods to &ed its fat and flesh and make its bones strong? 
Until a child is seven years old its bones are not quite hard. 
New milk has every substance to be found in animal and 
vegetable foods. If mother's milk cannot be got, the baby 
should have daily three pints of new cow's milk until it has 
cut some teeth. Though flour and bread is such a nourishing 
food for children, an infant would suffer agonies of pain and 
be soon pined to death if fed on it, because the saliva in its 
mouth cannot digest the starch in the flour and turn it into 
sugar. When it begins to cut its teeth the saliva becomes 
quite different, just like the saliva which grown-up people 
have. Children ought to have nothing but milk until they 
are nine months old. 

Dr. Ferguson, who examines and weighs factory children 

every week to see if they are strong enough to go to work, 

saj8 that he Bnds that young people between the ages of 

^lurteen and sixteen who are fed on imHs. iox \>x^fi2^^\) ^juA 



MILK. — OATMEAL POREIDGB. S7 

supper, grow twice as fast as those fed on tea and coffee. I 
am very glad to think that children are now not allowed to 
go to work until a medical man considers thej are fit to 
labour. 

Oatmeal porridge is excellent food for breakfast if it is 
properly made, but it is generally too little cooked, burnt, 
and lumpy. Coarsely-ground Scotch oatmeal is the best. I 
will now show you how to make it. I shall mix two table- 
spoonfuls of oatmeal with a teacupftil of cold water until it is 
quite smooth in this basin ; then pour in a pint of boiling 
water, and keep fi^equently stirring. The pan should either 
be put on the hob or hung on the recon for nearly three- 
quarters of an hour. A great many people cook oatmeal in a 
double pan, or by putting the pan with oatmeal into a larger 
one filled with boiling water. 

Apparatus, SfC, Rehired, 

Component parts of flour. 
„ „ of milk. 

„ „ of tea. 

„ It of cocoa. 

of 1 lb. of potatoes, to show the great quantity of 
water in fresh vegetables. 



»♦ »» 



Recei/pts for Seventeenth Lesson. 

Macaboni and Ghbbse. — 2 oz. of macaroni. The straight sticks must 
be broken into small pieces of about four inches, or to suit the saucepan. 
Soil in water until tender ; then place in a dish, a little stilt and pepper 
added, and some cheese grated over the top ; then put into a hot oTen until 
it is nicely browned. 

MoxTXD OF Sbmolina. — 1 tablespoouful of semolina ; \ pint of milk ; 
sweeten with 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar. Stir for ten minutes, and then sim- 
mer for 1 hour or more. Four it into a basin that has been well rinsed 
with cold water. (Full directions given at p. 88.) 

Cocoa. — Nibs are 1«. 4^. per lb. (this cocoa is of course quite genuine). 
1 oz. of nibs to 3 pints of water. Stew gently in ajar in the oven 1^ hour, 
or on the top of the oven to simmer for 3 or 4 hours. It is very good taken 
with half the quantity of boiling milk, or less if preferred ; sweeten to taste. 
Some people will put the jar of cocoa in the oven, all \i\^t\a \i^ ^^"8k&?j ^'srt 
"breakfast. When cocoa is made from t\i©"5Wi\Lfe\.,'w\S\0ci K^^wj^A^saR^ 



88 EIGHTEENTH LESSON. 

a teaspoonful is put into the cup, and boiling water is poured on to it and 
well stirred. MUk is added to taste. 

PoBBiDOE. — Mix 2 tablespoonfuls of coarsely gpround Scotch oatmeal 
with a teacupful of cold water until it is quite smooth, and then pour in a 
pint of boiling water, and keep frequently stirring it in the pan, which 
must be either on the hob or hung on the recon, or put into a jar in 
boiling water, where it can simmer without fear of burning for three- 
quarters of an hour. Some prefer to use a double saucepan for making 
porridge, as it must be well and slowly done, or it is not wholesome. 



EIGHTEENTH LESSON. 

LECTURE ON DIET, WARMTH, AND CLOTHING, 

Whenever we hear of wonderful cases in which people have 
been able to live without solid food for ten days like the poor 
Welsh miners, or for a year like the Welsh * fasting-girl ' in 
1868, we shall find that the people who had to undergo this 
privation had three things, namely, water, warmth, and quiet; 
that is to say, they had no work to do and no exercise. In 
the case of the Welsh * fasting-girl,' she always remained in 
bed ; directly the doctors who were sent down to watch the case 
saw that she really had no solid food or water she gradually 
sank, and died at the end of about a week. When the fat in 
the body is reduced to a certain quantity death occurs ; for 
instance, if a man weighs 100 pounds, he will die when he 
weighs only 60 pounds. The fat pig that was buried for 160 
days under three feet of chalk came out very thin but alive ; 
he had taken the water which had trickled doYim the rocks, 
the close little room kept him warm. 

Invalids who have become very thin after a severe illness 

often owe their lives to being kept very quiet. A knowledge 

of the facts I have mentioned has proved very valuable to 

persons who have been shut up in times of siege ; they knew 

^Jia^ their lives depended upon warm cVothmg and qjiiet. 

Doctors know directly when a person. \s ^.^vu^ oi ^V^wc-q^- 



* STARVATION. 89 

tion. Sad cases sometimes occur because people do not know 
certain signs which are unmistakeable. Starving people 
become very thin ; their faces grow very pale and livid ; their 
lips white, because the red corpuscles in the blood grow daily 
fewer; their eyes have a dreadful expression, look bright, 
stare, and never seem to wink ; the limbs move very slowly, 
the voice is feeble, they stagger like drunken men. It is in 
this stage of starvation policemen sometimes mistake the poor 
suflferer for a drunkard, and carry him off to the lock-up. 
The little blood they have flies to the brain ; that organ, sad to 
say, works night and day, because in starvation the power of 
sleep dies away. They picture the most delicious foods, and 
fancy they are eating them ; after a time the desire for food 
goes, the juices that digest the food disappear, digestion 
becomes more and more difficult, until at last the appetite goes 
altogether and the breathing is very slow. Dr. Chambers 
gives this terrible description of starvation, and says that 
some of these signs may be seen by watching a half-starved 
London needlewoman as she enters her poor home. 

There was a very fine picture in the Royal Academy in 
1874, called the * Casual Ward ;' a man asking to be taken in 
at a workhouse. Dr. Chambers says that the wonderful effect 
which that picture had upon all who saw it arose from the 
fact that the artist who painted it knew perfectly all the 
signs of starvation. The same authority says that want of 
food injures and weakens the brain as well as the body, and 
that whenever famine appears crime and brutality imme- 
diately break out. 

Erasmus Wilson, the distingnished * skin doctor,' speaks 
very strongly, in his book on the skin, about the necessity of 
good food for young people. The diet of children cannot, he 
says, be too varied. Change of food to the stomach is what 
change of air is to the general health. This he considers 
so rational a view that he wonders how anyone can hold a 
different opinion ; yet, he declares, * I have met with parents 
who come to me and boast that their children are fed exclusively 
on mutton.' Another mania is to give them only a certain 
quantity, not allowing the children, to ^%.\,\s>l^ ^(Jwe« Vjc^i::^^?^^, 
On one occasion he yras consuUe^i fox et\x"^^AOT^.'©. cJl ^^ 'srj^- 



90 EIQHTEENTH LESSON. 

and, after putting certain qaestions, he found, as he expected, 
that the eruptions were caused by starvation. Directly these 
children had plenty of food and a proper variety of it, their 
heads recovered. Dr. Chambers says that a deficient diet 
would also cause the following symptoms : — a glazed appear- 
ance in the eyes, an ulcer in the cornea, and finally blindness. 
When these symptoms are met with in reformatories, orphan 
asylums, and all other public institutions, they ought, he 
says, to be closely watched, for people are apt to think these 
cases must be treated by lowering the quantity of food, 
whereas that treatment soon takes away all chance of re- 
covery. T have frequently been told myself, by rich and poor 
mothers, that it was strange that their children had these 
breakings-out, as they had given them several doses of opening 
medicine. 

Doctors often find that they can restore the insane by 
giving them good food. Brain diseases, it is said, cause 81 
per cent, of all deaths in London before the age of ten ; 92 
per cent, before the age of fifteen. I cannot understand how 
children can grow up strong, either morally, mentally, or 
bodily, who go to schools where they are not only frightened 
by the brutality of bigger boys or girls, but are underfed, over- 
worked, and breathe bad air at an age when they are least 
able to bear these hardships. 

The following are two dietaries drawn up by Dr. Chambers 
and Dr. Smith for children in the nursery, and for boys and 
girls at school : — 



Diet for School Boys and Oirls. 

There should be four meals daily. 

Breakfast. — Porridge, treacle, new milk half-a-pint. 

Girls the same, or caf6 au lait (coffee with half-a-pint of 
new milk), butter and bread without limit. 

Dinner. — Joints of meat, always hot and always fresh ; 
salt meat never oftener than once a week, and so lightly 
salted that the liquor can be used for broth at the same meal. 
Meat mdimited, A variety of fresh vegeWoVea*. «2^^«^^ -^cAa*- 



DIET. — CLOTHING. 91 

toes ; split peas ; French beans and rice boiled in meat liquor. 
Padding daily after meat: rice and other farinaceous pud- 
dings made of milk ; after them come snet paddings, boiled 
or baked, made also of milk; and rolj-polj preserve pad- 
dings and similar paddings made with saet. Oh days when 
soup is given, the padding might be sapplied by bread and 
cheese. 

Tea. — ^Half-a-pint of warm or cold new milk ; bread and 
batter in anlimited qaantity. Tea for girls if required ; large 
qaantiiy of milk. 

SuPPSB. — Bread and cheese, if bread and milk have been 
given for tea. 

ChUd/rerCs Diet in Nursery. 

Children shoald have foar meals a day, bat meat only 
at one, or at most two ; the latter when a small portion is 
allowed. YHien in health they shoald have no wine or beer, 
no coffee, strong tea, or other exciting drinks. Once cooked 
saccalent meat, withoat saaces or condiments, eggs, plenty of 
farinaceoas padding, mealy potatoes, carrots, spinach, French 
beans, rice, bread, fresh batter, porridge, roast apples, and 
oranges shoald form the staple of the narsery commissariat. 

A great many parents and gaardians hold as ignorant 
ideas aboat clothing their children as they do aboat feeding 
them ; clothing is of as mach importance to yoang children as 
their food. Every part of an infant should be covered ap but 
its head. If a baby's head is kept hot it will dream and be 
feverish and restless ; it is not intended that its brains shoald 
work. For that reason great care ought to be taken to keep 
its head cool. A baby has generally no hair on its head when . 
it is bom, and the effect of this is to keep it cool. Nurses 
won't believe this. They will cover the head both by day 
and when it is in bed, in spite of all the doctors say. Every 
other part of its body ought to be kept very warm, or the 
blood will not be able to pass through the capillaries to feed 
the flesh. What is the use of feeding a child \<iith ^<^<^d-ic^<^ 
if the food, when it is made into \Aoo9l, caivTvoX* ^^\» ^-^ ^*^ "^^ 



92 BIGHTEKNTH LESSON. 

capillaries to feed the body P Gold sbnts up these wonderf nl 
little blood-vessels; therefore a child will starve unless its 
limbs are covered up. 

The heat of the blood of grown-up people is 99^®, but 
for the first four months of an infant's life its heat is only 
95°. Doctors have found that when young puppies or kittens 
are allowed to remain in their proper place by their mother's 
side their heat is only one degree lower, but if removed their 
heat soon sinks to the temperature of the air. You must know 
that we die when the heat of our blood is only 70®, I believe 
that many a young infant's life is lost by being put during the 
winter or cold weather into a smart bassinette. A baby's life 
really depends upon its being Ic&pt warm, as it has very little 
power of making its own heat ; and yet our babies in England, 
a civilised country, are doomed to wear a dress that would 
chill the blood of a strong man or woman ; a cotton frock, 
made like a ball dress with short sleeves and cut low so as to 
expose its delicate little chest. And this is the style in which 
a poor little girl is got up for six or seven years of her life. 
Boys are better off, because mothers put them into jackets 
and trousers at a very early age, because they like to see 
them look manly. A sensible young mother, a Mend of mine, 
determined to get a dress for her infant that should leave no 
part uncovered. She found, to her surprise, when she applied 
to friends who lived in London, Paris, and Germany, that 
they could not furnish her with such an unusual garment; 
fortunately an American lady she knew in Leeds possessed 
one, and I have brought the curiosity to show you. I am 
rejoiced to think that in one country at least children are 
properly clothed. In spite of all doctors can say, old nurses 
persuade mothers that a baby can bear more cold than a 
strong man or woman, and that it is good to harden them. 
These very children, who are to be hardened as they call it, 
are generally those who spend most of their time in hot 
nurseries. 

One cold winter's day at Scarborough I followed two 

nurses who had the care of a. little girl of about six, dressed 

in a velvet hat and feathers, white fur jacket, black velvet 

frock that only came to bar kneeB. i^a ^^^ ^^^ ^^"^ ctr^Yj^^ 



CLOTHING. 98 

I spoke to the nurses, and told them it was no wonder the 
poor little girl was cold with her legs uncovered on such 
a day. Thej both smiled at my want of knowledge, and said 
that the only way to make her strong was to leave her legs 
bare. A very stout mother wrapped up in fur once told me 
that she always let her little children go bare-legged so that 
the oxygen could enter the skin. 

Directly old or young feel cold, you may be sure the blood 
is not circulating properly and feeding all the organs. When 
the blood does not reach the outer skin chilblains come. 
Chilblains are only diseased flesh which may break and leave 
a sore. Cold has the effect of stupifying the brain. The 
blood when we are cold circulates so slowly that very little 
reaches the brain, and still you will find that schoolrooms 
where children are obliged to sit still for hours and use their 
brains to learn their lessons, are often very cold. No sitting- 
room ought to be colder than 65° or 60**. 

Perfect clothing ought to be light and warm. The great 
amount of heavy clothes that some women wear is said to 
cause serious complaints. Clothes have no warmth in them- 
selves ; we wear them in order to prevent the heat that is in 
our bodies from escaping. The great point then is to choose 
materials that are light, warm, and keep in the heat. It 
would be well if mothers would study and see how beautiftilly 
the bodies of animals are protected ; their bodies are covered 
with either fur, feathers, or wool. All these are made of 
animal substances, as they are a part of an animal. Everyone 
should know that animal substances are non-conductors, that 
is, will allow very little heat to pass through them. I have 
brought you an eider duck, which is considered to have the 
lightest and warmest covering. It comes from the Shetland 
Isles, where the cold is very great during the winter ; though 
this bird is so large, and weighs about four pounds, it can fly 
eighty or ninety miles an hour. Let us examine its covering. 
The most delicate part, you see, the chest, is covered with 
something beautifully white and soft; it is down ; and though 
so light and soft, down has a greater power, some say, of pre- 
venting heat from leaving the body than any other substance. 
You can see what an immenae ii\un\)Q{c oi i^<^^^t^Kk£^\s\:^ 



94 IIOHTSBHTB LESSOH. 

has ; each feather contains a little air, and there is also an 
immenBe qnantitf of air between each row of feathers. 

Ton will perhaps be surprised to hear that very little heat 
can pass tbrongb air, as it is a non-con dactor. In Rnssia, 
where the winters are very severe, houses are bnilt with 
double windows, so that there shall be a space between them 
which, of coarse, is filled with air. This wall of wr pi-events 
the heat that is in the room from going out. Perhaps yon 
have noticed a poor little canary, that has been left all 
night in a cold room, how large its feathers have become 
daring the night, they spread oat so that its head becomes 
nearly baried in them. By spreading ont the feathers in this 
way room was made for more air to get in between them and 
the feathers, and the air prevented the heat &om. escaping. 

We conld not very well nse feathers to cover ns as clothes, 
hut we can wear animal teitnres, such as fnr, or cloth and 
flannel, which are made from wool. 

Here is some wool that has come &om a sheep's back. 
It looks and feels very light, becanse it contains a great deal 
p,„ , of air. When this wool is woven info 

flannel or cloth there will be a great 
many little spaces between each thread, 
such as you see in this mi^nified piece 
of cloth. All those spaces will be filled 
with air, so i^t the cloth and the air 
will protect ns from the cold. 

People should he very carefnl to air 
Toitnre at doth woollen clothcs that have been hung up in 
(miigDmed). flajjip rooms or passages ; the air that is 

contained in the clothes will be damp and give them cold. 
Woollen clothes are light and warm lite feathers, and allow 
the perspiration to pass throi^h them, which makes them very 
healthy. Loose clothes are much warmer than tight clothes, 
as yon well know if yon have ever worn a pair of tight boots, 
for your feet, if it is cold weather, will always be cold in 
them. A man's dress is much warmer than a woman's, not 
only becanse his clothes are woollen but because they are 
j7uw/<? go mach Ioobbt, so that a great deal of air can remain 
between them. A man who wears a ftannel dait, * t^\,V 







WOOL, COTTON, LINEN. 



95 



waistcoat, aud cloth coat has three walls of air to protect his 
body. No wonder women can bear so much less cold than 
men when we think that very often they are clothed entirely 
in cotton or linen, and that these cold mate- fig. 4. 

rials are bound close to their bodies by tight 
stays, which prevents the blood from circula- 
ting. If yon could see a thread or fibre of 
wool yon would find it has scales ; these scales 
give wool a rough feeling. Wool also feels 
very warm to the touch, because it sucks up 
the heat from your hand instead of letting it 
pass through it. If you cannot tell by the 
touch whether a material is made of wool or a fibre of wool, mag- 
cotton, you should unravel a bit of the mate- 
rial and you will soon see how hairy it is if it 
is made of wool. The hair of all animals is 
scaly, like wool. Government inspectors expect girls to 
know the difEerence between woollen, cotton, and linen mate- 
rials. 

All clothes which are made from vegetable structures, such 
as linen and cotton, are very cold, because they do allow the 
hot air to pass through them, but hold a great deal of water 
or perspiration, as they are porous. They are also more closely 
woven together and therefore 




nified 310 times. It 
presents on its sur- 
face the ordinary 
scaly character of 
hair. 



Fio. 5. 



Fig. 6. 



allow very little air to collect 
in the spaces between the 
threads. When you get into 
bed don't you find the sheets 
very cold ? The linen or cotton 
that the sheets are made of lets 
the heat of your body pass 
through into the blankets ; but 
if you get into the blankets 
you soon find yourself very 
warm because the wool and 
the air in the blankets pre- 
vent your heat from escaping. 

Here is a drawing of a cotton and a linen thread. The 
linen thread is ronnd and Binoo\^^ ^iJiafc ^ioHJwyo. Ss^ '^ssa^ '«ssS>. 



A fibre of linen, 
magnified 155 
times. 



A fibre of cotton, 
magnified 105 
times. 



96 EIGHTEENTH LESSON. 

twisted and has sharp edges. Linen, therefore, feels and is a 
piuch softer material than cotton, and for that reason is nsed 
to cover wounds. 

You must examine the drawing of a linen thr.ead (fig. 5), 
and compare it with the cotton one (fig. 6). The cotton 
material does not feel so smooth, but I think you will say that 
cotton feels warmer than linen. You are right ; the cotton 
feels warmer to the touch, because it does not let the heat 
from your hand pass away too quickly, and it also does not 
hold as much water or perspiration. However much you 
perspire in a flannel-shirt it never sticks like a cold plaster 
to your skin, as a linen one does after violent perspiration. 
Doctors say flannel should be worn both summer and winter, 
BO that when we perspire the skin may not be chilled. Fur- 
nace men and all persons who work in warm rooms ought 
to be covered with flannel. Linen cannot be worn, Erasmus 
Wilson says, in hot climates, because the perspiration it holds 
soon gets very cold and chills the body very quickly. 

I must say a few words about clothing that is made of 
fur, leather, and feathers. Nothing can be wso'mer than a 
fur cloak. It also has the same property as wool in allowing 
the perspiration &c., to pass away. The only place where fur 
is not a safe clothing is when worn round the throat, as it 
keeps that part so warm that it becomes very tender and the 
fur-covering cannot be done without. You will find that 
people cease to auffer from sore-throats when they merely 
wear a silk tie, which is sufficiently warm, silk being an 
animal texture. The reason it feels so smooth is because the 
fibres are round. Silk comes next in warmth to cotton ; it 
does not hold so much moisture. Professor Tyndall says 
that the hairs of a hare are the most perfect non-conductors. 
Down covers are delightfully warm and light, and healthy 
too, as they do not retain the perspiration. You must re- 
member what I said about the eider duck. 

Macintosh is a very dangerous clothing, as no perspira- 
tion can pass through it. I have a bag here which is made 
of it. You see it can hold water as perfectly as if it were a 
jag: 

This piecq of felt ia made of hair aiA yiooI, wid has a 



CLOTHING. 



97 



Fig. 7. 



-wonderful power of keeping anything hot or cold that it 
covers. I will tell yon more abont this cnrious material 
another time. All materials that are made of animal structure 
require to be kept very clean, because germs of disease can 
live for a long time in them, as they feed on the material ; 
for instance, moths multiply rapidly in fur jind cloth. The 
human hair also requires to be kept clean for the same 
reason. Unfortunately people have an idea that a flannel 
shirt can be worn longer than a linen one, but 
this is a great mistake. The hair of our heads 
is very nearly the same substance as wool, fea- 
thers, and fur. Some people have such tender 
skins that they cannot bear flannel, or even silk 
shirts, to touch them. In these cases, which are 
rare, linen must be worn next the skin and the 
silk or woollen over that. 

You will perhaps wonder, after what I have 
said about air having the power to prevent heat 
from escaping through it, why it is necessary we a human hair 
should wear clothes at all. You must remember 
the air that surrounds our bodies is made up of little par- 
ticles of matter; these warm particles are constantly being 
carried off by the wind, and cold ones come to fill their places. 




NINETEENTH LESSON. 

LECTUBE ON BBEWEBS" YEAST, GEBMAN YEAST, PLANTS 
CALLED FUNGI AND FEBMENTATION. 

This tumbler is filled with the brewers' yeast which your 
mothers use in making bread. It only looks, as you can see, 
like a brown froth or foam. For hundreds of years learned 
men did all they could with their naked eyes to find out what 
this wonderful yeast could be which kept constantly working 
and growing more instead of less. With all their looking 
they could discover nothing more than you can see., until 
ma^ifyin^ glasses were inveiiteA bAdou^* ^^^ ^^"^-c^ ^%^* ^^^^-^ 



98 NINETEENTH LESSON. 

a Dntcliinan called Leenwenlioek took one of these glasses, 
examined a small quantity of yeast, and to his great astonish- 
ment discovered that it consisted of thousands of little bags 
or cells called tomlad. It was no wonder that the learned 
men who had no magnifying glasses conld not see these little 
bags, as they are so small that 3,000 of them will only cover 
a square inch. Soon after this discovery a Frenchman — 
Cagniard de la Tour — made some more experiments, and 
found that each of these little bags was a plant which grew 
very, very quickly, one out of another, when put into sugar 
and water, just as soap-bubbles come one out of another in a 
chain when blown through a tobacco-pipe. If you look at 
the illustration on page 23, you can see a single yeast 
plant, and also a chain of them fastened together. The 
Frenchman Cagniard de la Tour next found out that these 
little plants not only grew very quickly in sugar and water, 
but that they changed the sugar and water into two new 
substances — carbonic acid gas and the spirit called alcohol, 
which makes people tipsy when they take beer, wine, brandy, 
or any drinks called fermented drinks. You all know, of 
course, that every plant is a living creature, and therefore 
cannot live unless it has air to breathe called oxygen gas, as 
well as food to eat. Helmholtz, another scientific man, deter- 
mined he would discover how the little yeast plant managed 
to get oxygen gas when it was buried in sugar and water. 
After watching for a long time he found the wonderful little 
creature had the power of separating the sugar, which is 
made of three things — carbon, a hard substance, and two 
gases, hydrogen and oxygen. The yeast plant breathed as 
much of the oxygen as it required, and all that was left of the 
oxygen joined again directly with the carbon and hydrogen 
gas and made two new substances — alcohol and carbonic acid 
gas — because there was not enough of the three things — 
( xygen, hydrogen, and carbon — left to form into sugar again. 
I will now tell you how the spirit, or alcohol and carbonic 
acid gas, which is in beer is made. The brewer first makes a 
juice called sweet wort by mashing up malt and hops together 
in a boiler. When this juice is just lukewarm it is poured 
into a big, open tub called a vat, and ^ smaJX ,o^ii\it^ of 



YEAST. 99 

brewers' yeast is poured in. The yeast grows very quickly — 
first, because it finds plenty of sugar to feed on that comes 
out of the malt ; and secondly, because the sweet wort was 
luke-warm, which is just the heat in which the plant can 
work best. Great heat, 150**, kills it. Cold does not kill, 
only stupefies and shrivels it up so that it cannot work. 
You must remember these facts. 

The yeast is very light, and therefore floats and covers 
the top of the vat. As it rises the brewer skims it off and 
sells it to any one who wants any. After a certain time the 
sugar is all eaten up, so that the yeast plant gives up working, 
or fermenting as it is called. The sweet wort has then been 
changed into beer, which contains a great deal of carbonic 
acid gas and spirit. The beer after a short time is poured 
into barrels and corked up. The white foam that rises to the 
top of a glass of beer is not yeast, but little bubbles of air 
filled with carbonic acid gas. It is this gas that makes ginger- 
beer, lemonade, champagne, &c., taste sharp, and forces the 
corks out of the bottles. Carbonic acid gas is often made by 
mixing soda and tartsoic acid together in water. I will now 
make some of this gas in this way, and you will see how the 
water in this tumbler will be filled with air bubbles of car- 
bonic acid gas, which will rise up and fall over the sides of 
the tumbler. 

Bakers who make bread without yeast mix soda and tar- 
taric acid in some way in the water with which they mix the 
flour into dough. The air-bubbles of carbonic acid gas spread 
through the dough, raise it up, and niake it light. This is 
called aerated or unfermented bread. Bread is called fer- 
mented when yeast is used. The yeast is mixed with luke- 
warm water and stirred up in the flour, which contains sugar 
that the yeast feeds upon and changes into alcohol and the 
carbonic acid gas that spreads through the dough and makes 
it light. When all the sugar in the flour is eaten up the 
yeast gives up working. When dough is put into the oven 
it rises up for the first few minutes, because warmth makes 
the yeast grow, but the heat soon becomes so great that it 
kills it. You must watch the next baking- day and see how 
dough rifles and puffs up on ^rat \ievii^ y^\. ""vsi^^ ^^s^ ^-^^es^.* 



100 NINETEENTH LESSON. 

and then remains still. The alcohol or spirit is sent out of 
the dongh hy the heat into the oven. 

German yeast is the same as brewers' yeast, only it has 
been dried. Though it is called German yeast it is made at 
Rotterdam, a town in Holland, in the following way. The 
yeast is spread with a brush over a wooden board. When 
this layer is dry another layer is placed over the top of it 
until a thick cake is formed. If kept in a very cool, dry 
place, it is said that German yeast will keep for two years. 
It is very difficult to get good German yeast in the summer 
time, because the great heat kills it during the voyage, and 
then it becomes bad like'any other dead and rotten vegetable. 
Cooks use a great deal more German yeast in the summer, 
because it often happens that only half of the yeast they put 
into the flour is living ; the dead part of course gives the 
bread a disagreeable taste. I should think if fresh German 
yeast were put in a very clean jar surrounded by ice it could 
be preserved for some time during the summer, as cold stu- 
pefies the plant and prevents it from working. Yeast can be 
kept for a short time in a thick syrup of sagar, but we found 
it was necessary to take a large jar, because the yeast grew 
so quickly that it would soon have come out of the top or 
have burst the jar had it been corked up. 

The air we breathe is full of the yeast plant. "We know 
this to be a fact by the way wine is made. When all the 
juice has been squeezed out of the grapes it is put into a big 
open vat or tub, such as brewers use in making beer. The 
grape juice soon begins to ferment and contain a greal deal 
of spirit and carbonic acid gas, though no yeast or anything 
else has been put in. The yeast falls into it &om the air, as 
the vat is open. The juice in hot countries is just the heat 
the plant likes, and contains a great deal of sugar. 

Plants like the yeast plant are called fongi, and it is said 
there are no less than 150,000 different kinds. The largest 
are mushrooms, which we eat and pickle. Thousands that 
float in the air are much smaller than even the yeast plants ; 
24,000 will only cover a square inch ! They float about in 
the air when it becomeB damp, and contains the kind of food 
tlie^ Jite, Some live in drains, othera m \>«>A. N^«Afit, ToSat^ 



FUNGI. 101 

or foods of any kind, and make them ferment, and tarn 
sour, mouldy, or putrid. Professor Tyndall and many other 
learned men say that if we could prevent the air we hreathe 
from getting into our meat or foods they would never go bad, 
as cooks say, or have an unpleasant smell, only crumble away 
in time, like a mummy that has been wrapped up so well that 
no air could get to the flesh. Preserved meat keeps so long 
as the tin cover is fastened down, but like fresh meat goes bad 
when the cover is removed and it is exposed to the air for 
some time. 

You would not think that these plants could get through 
an egg-shell, but they do. An egg-shell is covered with 
thousands of tiny holes, through which the fresh air enters for 
the little chicken to breathe. Well, through these holes the 
fungi send some long threads, and soon change the good egg 
into a rotten one filled with bad gases, which are light, A bad 
egg will for this reason float if put into water, and a good egg 
will sink to the bottom. If you want to keep eggs for some 
months in the winter you must either cover over the shell with 
grease, so that nothing can enter the holes, or put them into 
lime-water. A piece of quick lime is used for this purpose. 

Preserves often ferment and sometimes burst the bottles, 
owing to the carbonic acid gas made by the fungi that were 
in the air in the bottles when the preserves were poured in. - 
Our bottled fruit keeps perfectly, because our cook takes 
great care to use very hot, clean, dry bottles, fills them quite 
to the top, and covers them instantly with a bladder, or pours 
hot grease over the top or oil. We only use one pound of 
sugar to three pounds of fruit, and boil them for twenty 
minutes. Of course no preserves will keep unless the fruit is 
freshly gathered in dry weather. 

Fungi cannot grow unless they have some water or mois- 
ture. Dry pure air shrivels them up. Preserves grow 
mouldy because they are put in a cupboard through which 
no dry air can pass. Bread grows mouldy if shut up in a 
damp pantry or in a jar through which air cannot pass. 
There is a great deal of moisture in bread, which should be 
able to pass out through a lid with holes, and the bread-pan 
should be kept very clean and dry, and be un^lazad^ thfti^ihA 



102 NINETEENTH LESSON. 

air can get throngh the pot and cany away the damp that 
rises from the hread. Damp walls are soon covered with the 
same kind of moald made by fungi* 

How very different are these small invisible plants from 
the plants we can see, which bear green leaves and flowers 
that delight our eyes, purify the air in onr houses, and live 
npon food they find in the earth, air, and water ; while fungi 
feed on the foods we eat, called organic foods, and make them 
unwholesome and poisonous. It is a comfort to know that if 
our houses are very clean, have no dirty comers, and the 
windows are kept open and bright, so that plenty of sunshine 
and fresh air can enter, we shall not be troubled with fungi, 
because fresh, dry air contains a great deal of oxygen gas, 
and oxygen gas seems to kill or shrivel them up. If cooks 
understood the nature of these plants, they would take care 
to have very clean pans, leave no food in them, and make 
their larders and kitchens very sweet. Housemaid^ would 
also take care to remove all dust from the furniture, <fcc., and 
constantly shake the dusters out of the window, as dust is a 
favourite place for fungi. Professor Tyndall not long ago 
proved by a beautiful experiment that the air in crowded, 
unventilated rooms was full of organic matter and living 
things which feed on it. 



INDEX 



ABB 

AERATED bread, 99 
Air, a non-conductor of heat, 
94,97 

— germs infesting the. See Q^erms. 

— presence of the yeast plant in, 
100 

— pure, a requisite for the kitchen, 5 
Albumen, nutritive qualities of, 

24, 31 

— indigestibilitj of, 31, 67, 66 

— effect of heat on, 33, 34, 58 
Alcohol, how produced, 98 
America, clothing of children in, 

92 
Animal foods, 80 

— constituents of, 51 

— way of boiling so as to keep all 
the juices in, 76 

Arrowroot, 86 



BAKERS, dishonest use of the oven 
by, 28 
Baking of bread, 28 

— of pastry, 48 
Barley-water, cUrections for making, 

62 

Basting, 38 

Batter pudding without eggs, re- 
ceipt lor, 68 

Beef, economical character of, as 
food, 71 

— directions for roasting, 37 
Beefsteak, directions for cooking, 

34,56 
Beef-tea, ' strongest,' directions for 
making, 60 

— 'whole,' directions for making, 
64,67 

Blood, action of, in fevers, 61 



CHI 

Blood, purity of, derived from vege- 
table foods, 42, 51 

— temperature of, 92 

* Body-warmers,' 41, 54, 76 
Boiling, art of, 77 

— effects of, on food, 81, 70 
Bones, boiling of, for soup, 71 
Bottle, feeding, 16 

Brass utensils, danger of using, 3 
Bread, nutritive value of, 42 

— directions for baking, 28 

— proper way of keeping, 80, 101 

— aerated or unfermented, 99 

— cakes, receipt for, 26 
' Brig,' explanation of, 4 

Broth, sheep's head, receipt for, 82 
Buns, currant, seed, and rock, re- 
ceipts for, 30 

— directions for making, 28 
Butyric acid, 66 



CABBAGE, how to wash and oook» 
38 

— directions for pickling, 70 
Caf&-au-lait, the French, 84, 90 
Caffeine, 83 
Cagniard de la Tour, experiments 

on the yeast plant made by, 98 
Cakes, bread, receipt for, 26 
Carbon, 6 
Carbonic acid gas, 5, 98, 99 

— produced by yeast, 23 

— artificial production of, 99 
Carrot soup, 72 
Cassava meal, 86 
' Casual Wardt' the picture so called, 

89 
Chap^aed haM*, t«tas&^ ^^"*^ ^ 



104 



INDEX. 



CHI 

Children, rules for the diet of, 89-91 

— effects of a * starch diet ' in, 86 
Chopping or mincing, 42, 45, 65 
Cinders, utility of, 7 
Clarifying, 49 

Cleaning, 14-20 

Cleanliness, need of, in the kitchen- 
maid or cook, 4 
Cloth, woollen, texture of, 94 
Clothing, need of, 97 

— prevalent errors concerning, 91- 
93 

— choice of materials for, 93 

— cotton and linen, 95 

— for, leather, and feather, 96 

— woollen, 94 

Cloths, kitcheui best material for, 
14,45 

— washing of, 15 

Cocoa, directions for making, 83, 87 
Coffee, nutritive value of, as com- 
pared with tea and cocoa, 83 

— the proper way of making a cup 
of, 84 

Cold, effects of, on the blood-vessels, 
92 

— effects of, on the brain, 93 
Cooking, the art of, 31, 34, 84 
Cooks, outfit recommended for, 1 1 

— rules for cleanliness in, 4 
Cooks, French, superiority of, 31, 52 

— English, faults of, 32 
Corn-flour, 86 

Cornish pasties, receipts for, 53, 65 
Copper utensils, danger of using, 3 
Cotton, properties of, as a clothing 

material, 95 
Cupboard, arrangement of the, 1 

— dimensions of the, 12 

— utensils required in the, 12 
Currant buns, receipt for, 30 
Currant pudding, receipt for, 43, 46 
Custard, directions for cooking, 67 

— receipt for, 68 

DAMPEB, use of the, 8 
Decomposition, cause of, in 
food, 100 
Dinner service, how to wash, 16 
Dinners, lessons on, 36, 41, 46, 51, 56 
Dough, making oi, 22 

— Jngredienta of, and their ppopor- 
^yon, 26 



FOG 

Dough, reason of the rising produced 

by yeast in, 23, 99 
Dripping, 37 

— how to clarify, 47, 49, 50 

— pastry-making with, 48 
Drunkenness, mistakes made by the 

police with regard to, 89 
Dumplings, suet, directions for 
making, 78, 82 



EAETHENWAEE, utility of, 80 
Eggs, digestibility of, 66 

— preservation of, 101 

— proper way of cooking, 33 

— poaching, 33 

— how to cook without boiling, 36 

— hard-boiled, for sandwiches, 35, 
36 

— beaten up with milk or wine, 66, 
68 

Eider duck, skin of, 93 
Enamel, danger of, as a coating for 
utensils, 3 



FACTORY children. Dr. Fergu- 
son's statement concerning, 86 
Fasting, long, conditions explaining, 

88 
Fat, insolubility of, in water, 49 

— difficulty of cooking, 56 

— consumption of, in the body, 41 
Feeding bottles, 16 

Felt, heat-preserving properties of, 

22,97 
Fermentation, 99, 100 
Fevers, diet in, 61 
Fire, proper way of laying a, 6 
Fish, nutritive value of, 42 

— directions for washing, 43 

— how to know fresh from stale, 48 

— directions for frying, 57 
Flannel, advantage of wearing next 

to the skin, 96 
Flesh-formers, 54 
Flour, constituents of, 24, 82 

— beat kind of, 25 

— proper way of keeping, 80 
Flues, oven, how to clean, 8 
Foods, animal, 30 

— miueTal, 61, 53, 62, 72 



INDEX. 



105 



FOO 

Fopds, * body -warming/ or fat- 
formers, 41 

— digestibility of, 38, 44, 46, 56, 66, 
69, 71 

— seasons of, 42 

— for children, 85, 89 

-^ for invalids, 33, 59-68, 71 
Fowls, trussing of, 77 
French, superiority of the, as cooks, 
31, 52 

— servant girls, 10 

Fruit pudding, baked, receipt for, 

74, 75 
Fruits, dried, importance of washing 

before use, 28, 29 

— preserved, 101 
Frying, the art of, 56. 
Fungi, 100 

Fur, properties of, as a clothing 
material, 96 

GAS-STOVE, cooking by, 4 
— consumption of gas in, 13 
Gelatine, nutritive qualities of, 24, 69 

— employment of, in soups, &c., 70 
German silver, cleaning of, 20 
Germs, atmospheric, 16, 19, 62, 80, 

100, 102 

— degree of heat required for kill- 
ing, 16 

Golden syrup, explanation of, 73 
Gravy, 39 
Grilling, art of, 34 

— receipt for, 36 

Gruel, milk, receipt for, 63, 64 

— water, receipt for, 63, 64 

HADDOCK, baked, 41 
— stuffing for, 43 
' Hardening,' so called, of children, 

92 
Harding, for making kitchen cloths, 

14, 45 
Hasty pudding, receipt for, 78 
Heartburn, cause of, 56 
Helmholtz, his observations on the 

yeast plant, 98 
Herbs, dried, directions for storing, 

79 

JNDIGESTION, symptoms of, due 
to food, 66 



MIL 



Infants, clothing of, 91 

— food of, 86 

Insanity cured by good food, 90 

Invalid, dinner for an, 67 



JAM turnover, directions for mak' 
ing, 48 
Jelly; 69 



KITCHEN, ventilation of the, 5 
— apparatus required for, 12 
Kitcheners, 4 
Kitchenmaids, rules for cleanliness 

in, 4 
— outfit recommended for, 1 1 
Knives, cleaning of, 19 



LEEUWENHOEK, discovery of 
the torulae of yeast by, 97 
Lemon-juice, employment of, as a 

remedy for scurvy on board ships, 

52 
Lettuce, round worm occasioned by 

eating, 53 
Lime, nutritive properties of, 24 
linen, properties of, as a clothing 

material, 95 



MACAEONI, directions for cook- 
ing, with cheese, 82, 87 
Macintosh, dangerous nature of, aa 

a clothing material, 96 
Maizena, 86 

Mashed potatoes, receipt for, 58, 59 
Marjoram, dried, 79 
Meat, way of keeping, 2 

— buying of, 36, 53 

— necessity of washing before cook> 
ing, 37 

— the most wholesome way of 
cooking, 38 

— cold, unsuitability of for in- 
valids, 65 

— salted, injurious effects of, 85 

— soup, receipt for, 75 
Meats, preserved, 85, 101 
Milk, nutritive value of, 59, 61 



106 



IKDEX. 



MIL 

Hilk, the kind of, suitable for chil- 
dren, 86 

— gruel, receipt for, 63, 64 

— preserved, 85 

— jugs, particular directions for 

washing, 16 
Minerals, relative amount of, in 

animal and vegetable foods, 51 
Mint, dried, 79 
Mushrooms, 100 
Mutton, greater digestibility of, than 

beef, 71 

— chop, how to cook, 34, 66 

— minced, receipt for, 68 

NUKSE, duties of the, 62 
Nursery, diet for the, 91 

OATMEAL porridge, directions 
for making, 87, 88 
Onion sauce, receipt for, 47, 60 
Onions, receipt for pickling, 79, 81 
Osmazome, 37, 60, 84 
Oswego corn-flour, 86 
Oven, explanation of the, 7 

— use of the damper in, 8 

— how to clean the flues in, 8 

— degree of heat required in, for 
bread and pastry baking, 27, 49 

— dishonest use of the, 28 
Oxygen gas, 5, 15, 38, 85, 102 

PARSLEY, dried, 79 
Pasties, Cornish, receipts for, 
53, 55 

Pastry, light, directions for making 
and baking, 48 

Peas, nutritive value of, 76 

Pea soup, directions for making, 76, 
78 

Perspiration, removal of^ by woollen 
clothing, 94 

Phosphorus, nutritive properties of, 
24 

Pickled cabbage, directions for mak- 
ing, 79 

— onions, receipt for, 79, 81 
JPJe, potnto, 53 

J^oaching eggs, 33 
J^ork, directions for roasting, 49 
— - disease occasioned by eating, 49 



BIC 

Porridge, oatmeal, directions for 

making, 87, 88 
Pot-au-feu, the French, 73 
Potash in fruits and vegetables, 52, 

64 
Potato pie, 63 

— surprise, directions for making, 
66,68 

— starch, 86 

Potatoes, greater digestibility of 
baked than boiled, 44 

— necessity of eating with salt 
meat, 85 

— how to wash and cook, 34 
bake, 44 

— mashed, receipt for, 58, 59 
Poultry, how to tell old fix)m young, 

77 

Preserve (or treacle) roly-poly, re- 
ceipt for, 73, 75 

Preserves, prevention of fermenta- 
tion in, 101 

Prisons, faults of cooking in, 72 

Pudding, directions for boiling a, 44 

— baked, the great secret of making, 
73 

— baked fruit, receipt for, 74, 75 

— baked rice, receipt for, 57, 58 

— batter, without eggs, receipt for, 
68 

— currant, receipt for, 43, 46 

— hasty, receipt for, 78 

— savoury, receipt for, 47, 50 

— suet, with either currants or 
raisins, receipt for, 43, 46 

— treacle, 73 

— Yorkshire, receipt jfor, 39 

— steaming, 74 

— cloth, proper way of washing, 45 



QUICKSILVER, expansion of, by 
heat, 27 



p ABBITS, directions for boiling, 

Eecon, explanation of, 3 
Eevalenta arabica, 83 
Rice, moulds of, 83 
— pudding, baked, receipt for, 67i 
68 
\^ — scattered, recev^t iot, ^^, !i^ 



INDEX. 



107 



BIC 

Bickets due to £a.iilty nutrition, 86 
^jRoasting, the most wholesome way 

of cooking meat, 38 
— time required for, 36, 50 
Boly-poly, treacle, receipt for, 73, 

76 



SAGE, dried, 79 
Sago, 86 
Sailors, former sufferings of, from 

scurvy, 61 
Salad sauce, receipt for, 62 
Salmon, 42 

Salt, its destructive effects on grubs, 
slugs, &c., 38, 53 

— meat, deficient nourishing power 
of, 85 

Sand, Calais, 14 
Sandwiches, egg, 36 

— receipt for, 36 

Sauce, onion, receipt for, 47, 50 

— salad, receipt for, 52 
Saucepans, brass and copper, danger 

of using, 3 

— enamelled and tinned, objections 
against, 2 

— iron, advantages of, 2 

— method of cleaning, 18 

— proper way of stowing, 2 
Schools, diet for children in, 90 
Scurvy, former sufferings of sailors 

from, 51 

— cause of, 85 

Semolina, mould of, directions for 

making, 83, 87 
Sheep's head, directions for boiling, 

78 
Sick, food for the, 59-68, 71 
Silk, properties of, as a clothing 

material, 96 
Simmering, 32 
Sink, how to clean, 19 
Sitting-room, temperature of, 93 
Skin, diseases of, due to starvation, 

89 
Soap, impropriety of cleaning cook- 
ing utensils with, 14 
Soda, use of, in cleaning cooking 

utensils, 14 
Soot, heat-retarding properties , 

18 
Soup, boiling injurious to, 70 



TBI 

Soup, carrot, 72 

— meat, receipt for, 75 

— pea, directions for making, 76, 
78 

— vegetable, directions for making, 
72,76 

Starch, nutritive qualities of, 24, 42 

— presence of in vegetables the 
cause of their swelling when 
cooked, 39 

— list of substances composed of, 
86 

Starvation, Dr. Chambers's descrip* 

tion of, 89 
Stock, uses of, 18, 69 

— preparation of, 70 

Stomach, acid in the, caused by eat- 
ing fat, 56 
StufBng for baked haddock, 43 
Suet, nutritive value of, 42 

— pudding with either currants op 
raisins, receipt for, 43, 46 

— dumplings, directions for making, 
78, 82 

Sugar, nutritive value of, 42 

— use of, in preserving milk, 86 
Swill-tubs, 19, 44 



TAPEWORM in children from 
eating raw or unwashed greens, 
38 
Tapioca, 86 
Tea, nutritive value of, as compared 

with cocoa, 83 
Teacakes, how to make, 28 

— receipt for, 30 
Tea-things, how to wash, 16 
Theobromine, 83 

Thermometer, use of, in bread bak- 
ing, 27 

— in frying, 56 

Throat, sore, obviated by wearing a 

silk neck-tie, 96 
Thyme, dried, 79 
Tin, danger of, as a coating fop 

utensils, 3, 18 
Toast, dry, receipt for, 68 
Torulse of yeast, 98 
Tous-les-mois, 86 
Treacle pudding, 73 
* Trichina * \iv "^tV, ^A 



V 



108 



INDEX. 



TBU 



Trussing, poultry, 77 
Turnover, jam, directions for mak- 
ing, 48 



UTENSIXiS, kitchen, lists of, 12 
— cost of, 12, 81 

— best materials for, 2, 3 

— method of cleaning, 14, 20 



TTEAL cutlets, how to fry, 56 
V Vegetable foods, explanation 
of, 26, 31 

— constituents of, 39, 61 
Vegetable soup, directions for 

making, 72, 75 
Vegetables, need of, for the preser- 
vation of health, 52 

— why considered indigestible foods 
in England, 38 

— how to tell stale fironi fresh, 53 

— French way of cleaning, 53 

— reason why they swell when 
cooked, 39 

Ventilation, necessity of, in the 

kitchen, 5 
Verdigris, 3, 18 



w 



TOB 



ATEE, presence of, in food^ 
the cause of decomposition, 

85 
Weighing by measure, 25 
Welsh 'fasting-girl,' the, 88 
Wine, %mentation of, 100 
Women,' clothing of, 95 
Wool, utility of, as a clothing 

materia], 94 
Working people, most suitable food 

for, 41 
— unhealthy appearance of, due 

to abstention from fruit and 

vegetables, 62 
Worm, round, produced by eating 

lettuce unwashed, 63 
Wort, sweet, of beer, 98 



YEAST, nature and properties of, 
23,97 

— proportion in which to be used,. 
26 

— preservation of in summer, 24,. 
100 

— torulse of, 98 

— manufacture of, 100 
Yorkshire pudding, receipt for, 39, 

41 



LOSOOV i PBIHTKD BT 
SPOTTISWOODS AND CO., NEW-BTUVKT a(^T3kBlil 
AXD PA&LIAMBHT BTB.B1,T 



