TX 
715 
6216 
1883 



BERKELEY 

LIBRARY_ 

Of 




AND 



No. 8 Montgomery Street, 

Opposite Grand and Palace Hotels, SAN FRANCISCO. 

\ NEW STYLES OF 



Ckbtqet, 



VBMWHIAni 



New and artistic Backgrounds and Accessories for indoor and out- 
door effect 

The latest improved Instruments for taking the most perfect 
Pictures known in the Art of Photography. 

The best and most experienced help and the best materials, added 
to a personal experience of twenty-five years in the Art, enable Mr. 
TABER to give the best of satisfaction in Photographic Work of all 
kinds. 

The Taber Gelatine Dry Plates 

Used in our Gallery enable us to make the sittings in much less time 
than formerly and insure perfect Likenesses. 

OLD PICTURES COPIED 

And enlarged to any size and finished in our famous Ivorytype style, 
or in Crayons, India Ink, Water Colors or Oils. 
A constantly renewed stock of Novelties in 

FRAMES, PASSEPARTOUTS, ETC. 




INSURANCE 

Assets, 
Losses Paid, 



COMPANY. 

$1,850,000 
5,000,000 




Home Office, S.W. cor. Sansome and California Streets, 
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA. 

AGENCIES IN ALL PRINCIPAL LOCALITIES- 



THE OLDEST AND LARGEST 

Pacific Coast Fire Insurance Company. 



Its popularity is attested by the fact that its business on this Coast for 1881 
yielded 

PREMIUM RECEIPTS GREATER 

Than those of ANY OTHER COMPANY, American or Foreign. 



D. j.- STAPLES, President. \Y. J. DUTTON, Secretary. 

ALPHEUS HULL, Vice-President. K. \Y. CARPENTER, Asst. Secretary. 



E. MANS BACH. L. A. NEW. 

m 

Trimmings, Laces, Silks, 

HOSIERY, BLACK DRESS GOODS, 

STATIONERY. PERFUMERY, &c. 
22 ii3_cL 2Q ICea.rr^37' Street, 

SAN FRANCISCO. 



Ifr^/" Orders 'from the Country prom fitly attended to. 

C. T. MAKSH, 6. . M.UiSH \ CO., MARSH & CO, 

Yokohama. Sin Fr lu-isco. Cincinnati. 

Japanese Art Bepository, 

C. T. MflRSH & CO. 

Importers, Collectors and Expert Critics of CURIOSITIKS, ANTIOUII'IKS 

and UENU1NK ART SL'HJECTS from the Islands of [APAN, 

LOO' CMOO, COREA and the OKIF/NT. 

DECORATIONS IN ORIENTAL STYLE A SPECIALTY. 

625 MARKET STREET, under Palace Hote', SAN FRANCISCO. 




Stand Corner Seventh and Broadway, Oakland. 

Orders left at ROSENBERG'S CIGAR STORK. 909 Broaduay, ancl7i6 
SEVENTH STREET, between Castro and Brush, ond CASTRO MARKET, 
Seventh Street, between Castro and Brush, will receive prompt attention. 



A GENCY FOR 

S. T. TAYLOR'S 

System of Dress Making I Patterns. 



No. 963 Washington Street, Oakland, 



McGOVERN & CAHILI, 



IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN 



Carpets, Oil Cloths, Etc. 

MANUFACTURERS OF WINDOW SHADES. 

1060 BROADWAY, between llth and 12th Streets, OAKLAND. 

Boots, Shoes and Slippers 

IN ENDLESS VARIETY. 
EXTRA QUALITY, 

GOOD FITTING, 

AND DURABLE, 

At Lowest Possible Prices. 



-o 



I 



. 

(SUCCESSOR TO D. STUART,) 

\ 

1053 Broadway, Oakland. 



COMMERCIAL 

INSURANCE CONIFJLNY 
J / 7 



OF CALIFORNIA. 



1872. 



Statement January 1st, 3883: 

Capital Stock fully paid $200,000 oo 

Reserve for Re-Insurance 77,867 oo 

Losses in Process of Adjustment 6,772 oo 

Net Surplus over Capital and all Liabili- 
ties.. 1)11 08 



Total Assets ...... __________ $376,053 



Surplus as regards Policy-holders _______ $291,411 08 

Losses Paid since Organization of Com- 

pany ________________ ..... - _____ $867,538 70 

PBINCIPAL OFFICE, 

No. 405 California Street, 

SAN FRANCISCO. 



JOHN H. WISE, - President. 

Off AS. A. LATON, - Secretary. 



"STILL ANOTHER." 




ofj Choice 



BY 



THE LADIES' AID SOCIETY 



OF THE 






SECOND EDITION. 



" We may live without poetry, music and art; 
We may live without conscience, and live wi'hout heart; 
We may live without friends; we may live without books; 
But civilized man cannot live withont cooks. 
He may live without books, what is knowledge but grieving 
He may live without hope, what is hope but deceiving? 
He may 1 ve without love, what is passion but pining? 
But where is the man that can live without dining ?" 



^OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA: 

TRIBUNE PUBLISHING COMPANY, Nos. 413, 415 AND 417 EIGHTH STREET, 

1883. 







PREFACE TO FIRST EDITION. 



" STILL another ! " cries a long-suffering public. True, but take 
courage ! For, this time it is not a "complete manual" to supply "a 
want long felt." It is only a book of the favorite cooking recipes of 
those ladies of our Society who have long been recognized as 
authorities among us in all matters connected with housekeeping. 
The recipes are, all of them, among the things Tried and Proven. 
\\"e have published them for the twofold purpose of binding them 
together into convenient form for reference and adding to the funds 
of our Society. 

Thus we claim no place among the grand compendiums of House- 
wifery ; we have been humble gleaners in the field of culinary art. 
and we now lay our gathered sheaf at your feet, hoping you may 
deem it worthy of a place among your household treasures. 



'P UK-FACE TO SECOND EDITION. 



The very flattering success of the first issue of ''Srru, AXOTHKR " 
induced the ladies to issue the present revised and improved edition. 
Much care has been taken to eliminate all errors ; many valuable 
and rare recipes have been added ; and the general appearance of 
the book improved. 

We trust our second edition will meet with as cordial a reception 
at the hands of a generous and considerate public as did our first. 



AGRICULTURE 
GIFT 



1113 



CONTENTS. 




SaladsChicken Salad Crab Salad Potato Salad Tomato Salad- 

Cream Slaw ......................... ................... 9-10 

SOUPS Soup Siock Mock Turtle or Calfs Head Soup Cream of 
Barley Soup Tomato Soup Celery Cream Onion Soup 
Corn Soup Soup in Two Hours Bean Soup Clam Chowder 
Crab Soup Delmonico's Receipt for Oyster Stew ......... 11-15 

Fish--Fish a la Creme disk a la Creme Fillet of Sole au Gratin 
Club House Fish Cakes Fried Sole Fried Flounder Salt 
Cod ................................................... 16 18 

Meats General Directions ........................... . ......... 19 20 

General Directions; ....................... . ........ 21 



Breakfast and. LllXIClL Dishes --Scalloped Potatoes Stuffed 

toesSHiffed Green Peppers Scalloped Oyster Plant Dor- 
mers Corn Oysters Baked Cauliflower Tomato Macaroni 
Baked Tomatoes Scrapple Veal and Ham Pressed Tongue 
with Jelly Boned Chicken. Crab Hot Crab Deviled Crab 
Baked -Omelette Bread Omelette Nice Breakfast Dish 
Baked Meat Stew Veal Loaf Clam Pie Clam Fritters 
Boiled Beef Oyster Cakes Oyster Fricassee Creamed Oys- 
ters Scalloped Oysters Fried Oysters Fricassee Chicken 
Beef a la Daube Beef a la Mode Chicken Pie Baked 
Beans ................. ................................ 22-3 1 

Bread Rules for Bread Family Bread Potato Yeast Parker House 
Rolls Light Rolls Beaten Biscuit Soda Biscuit New Milk 
Bread Biscuit for Small Family Sally Lunn Muffins 
Mush Muffins Waffles Pop Overs Squash Griddle Cakes 
Buckwheat Cakes Corn Cakes Corn Bread Brown Bread 
Baked Brown Bread- Graham Bread ............... ....... 33 -37 

ules for Cake Republican Cake Imperial Cake Myrtle Cake 
Pound Cake Little Pound Cake New England Election 
Cake Corn Starch Cake Springfield Cream Puffs Snow 
Drops Mountain Cake Harrison Cake Fruit Cake Sun- 
shine Cake Vanilla Cake Poor Man's Cake Ribbon Cake 
Marble Cake Coffee Cake Dried Apple Cake Bread 
Cake Sponge Cake White Sponge Cake Berwick Snow 
Cake Angel Cake Silver and Gold Cake Company Cake 
Boiled Icing The New Frosting Filling for Layer Cake 
Nut Cake English Walnut Cake Cake with Almond Filling 
Lemon Cake Ambrosia Jelly for Cake Chocolate Cake 
Chocolate Eclairs Cocoanut Cake Lemon Cake -Orange 
Cake Jelly Cake Jelly Roll Jelly Fruit Cake Harlem 
Jumbles Nahant Buns Doughnuts Crullers Caraway 
Cookies Ginger Crackers Ginger Bread Old Fashioned 
Sugar Ginger Bread Molasses Ginger Bread Ginger Cake 
Rochester Molasses Cookies .............................. 39-5 1 

637 



8 CONTENTS. 

Light DeSSertS Ambrosia Chocolate Bavarian Cream Charlotte 
Russe Sherbet Isinglass Blanc Mange Spanish Cream 
Tapioca Cream Pink Cream Bananas and Cream Oranges 
for Lunch Strawberry Ice Peach Custard Our Favorite 
Apple Meringue Ice Cream Trifle Macaroon Pudding 
Cocoanut and Chocolate Blanc Mange A Delicious Dessert 
Sweet Cream 5 2 ^5^ 

Pastry and Pudding's Rules for Pastry Puff Paste Lemon Pie 
Lemon Taits Raisin Pic --Transparent Tarts Cocoanut 
Tails Strawberry Short Cake Squash Pie Mince Pie Cream 
Pie Lemon Pudding Bread Pudding English Plnm Pud- 
ding Snow Pudding Corn Starch Pudding Plain Suet Pud- 
ding Omelette Pudding Batter Pudding Baked Indian 
Pudding Fruit Pudding Rice Pudding Coffee Pudding 
Sweet Potato Pudding Carrot Pudding Queen's Pudding 
Snow Pudding Indian Pudding Sauces for Puddings- -Oyster 
Sauce for Boiled Chicken Drawn Butler Egg Sauce Cran- 
berry Sauce 59 6/ 

COB.feCtiOHOry -Almond Bread Chocolate Creams Macaroons Butter 
Scotch Caramels Old Fashioned Molasses Candy Kisses 
Uncooked Cream Candy 68 <><) 

Preserved FrilitS -Tanned Fruits --Fruit Jellies Currant Jellies 
Raspberry and Blackberry Jam Apple felly Lemon jelly 
Fig Marmalade -Preserved Figs Spiced Currants --Spiced 
Blackberries Spiced Peaches 70 7 j 

PlCkleS and CatSUpS -Pickled reaches Ripe Cucumber Pirkles Fig 
Pickles Green Tomato Sweet Pickle Cucumber Pickles- 
Mixed Pickles Tomato I lodge Podge Chow Chow- -Pica- 
lilli Grape Catsup Plum Catsup Chile Sauce . 74 7 7 

A Chapter for DySpeptiCS Unleavened Bre.icl Graham Bread 
Graham Gems White Gems Beaten Biscuit -Graham Crack 
ers Rye or Indian Drop Cake Old Fash'oned fohnny Cake 
Graham Mush Cracked Wheat Hominy Boiled Rice 
Scotch Pudding Oat Meal Blanc Mange Indian Pudding 
Grnnula Pudding Simple Fruit Short Cake Graham Pie 
Crust Corn Soup Rice Soup Mutton Toast Favorite 
Aphorisms 79^3 

Drinks Tea Coffee Chocolate Cocoa Refreshing Drink for tlie 
Sick Raspberry Acid Currant Ice Water Effervescing 
Fruit Drinks- Beef Extracts Beef Tea 85-87 

MiSCellaneOUS~Japanese Cleaning Cream To Renovate Carpets amlf 
Furniture Celery Salt A Cure for Asthma Odds and Ends 
Last Words, Etc., Etc 89 <>o 

A Chapter received too late for classification, containing direc- 
tions for carving, and many valuable recipes 1 15 124 



FREUD'S 



"The Corset Emporium of America." 

OTJIR -~.v~v^ OUR 



CORSETS 

Combine Grace, Comfort 
and Economy. 



Sole Agency for the 

Best Factories in 

the World. 



742 

MARKET STREET, 

SAN FRANCISCO. 




Are perfect in Fit. Shape 
an/1 Finish. 



Only Depot for the 

Genuine French 

Corsets. 



Dupont Street, 
SAN FRANCISCO. 



Wholesale and Retail Catalogues sent FREE to any Address. 
T7OR THE MOST STYLISH 

MI&&IMEMY 



GKD TO 




AT VERY REASONABLE PRICES. 



No. 10 Kearny St., San Francisco. 



FRATINGER & CO 



INurbfXb m& letail 




CLOAK; 




AND 




su 









H 



No. 105 Kearny Street, 



/<> %z& House, San Francisco. 



SALADS. 



CHICKEN SALAD. Mrs. Israel Knox. 

One boiled chicken, one head lettuce, one head celery, slice with 
sharp knife, and prepare the following dressing : 

One cup of weak vinegar, one tablespoonful of butter, one tea- 
spoonful salt, one heaping teaspoonful of mustard ; one small cup of 
cream, three eggs. Put the vinegar, butter, and salt in a porcelain 
saucepan to heat; while it is heating, mix the mustard by gradually 
adding the cream; then beat the eggs, and add them; then pour the 
hot mixrure slowly on the cream, etc., stirring all the time; put the 
whole mixture over the fire, stirring every moment until it nearly 
boils ; then strain and put in a cool place. 

CHICKEN SALAD NO. 2. Mrs. Van Blarcom. 

Cut the meat of a pair of fowls into small dice; add to this meat 
about two-thirds more of celery sliced very thin; mix in a cup, white 
pepper, one teaspoonful; mustard, one very small teaspoonful; salt 
one teaspoonful ; Worcestershire sauce, one tablespoonful ; vinegar, 
one-half cupful. Cut an onion in half, and wipe with it the bowl in 
which you will mix >our salad. Add your spices by degrees, tasting 
from time to time to get it just right. For your mayonnaise, the 
yolk of an egg, a bottle of oil, a soup plate and a fork. Drop the 
oil on the yolk of the egg in the plate, stirring it well. When too 
stiff, add*a few drops of vinegar or lemon juice, and go on adding 
oil till you have as much dressing as is needed. If you are impa- 
tient and add the oil too fast, and it "curdles," save your time by 
beginning over again, with a new yolk, and more patience. 

CRAB SALAD. Mrs. Dr. Oder. 

Have ready the choicest parts of two head of lettuce in small 
pieces, and the flesh of two boiled crabs, reserving the oil of the 
crabs in a small dish. Place in a large soup-plate the yolk of a hard- 
boiled egg, and rub till smooth. Add the yolks of two raw eggs, 
one teaspoonful of freshly mixed mustard, one teaspoonful of sugar, 
and a pinch of salt. Commence stirring (using a wooden salad 

Income of Firemans' Fnnil insurance Compny. $2,000 w flay! 



10 SALADS. 

spoon) with the right hand, holding a bottle of salad oil in the left 
dropping it by degrees, and continually stirring it until you have used 
about one-fourth bottle of oil, when you should have a thick, smooth 
mixture. Then stir in a tablespoonful of vinegar, and it will form 
into a rich, creamy-looking dressing. Now stir in the oil of the crab, 
and next add the flesh of the crab broken in small pieces. Place 
lettuce in a salad bowl, and pour dressing over it, lightly mixing with 
a salad fork. Garnish with hard-boiled egg cut in rings. The lightest 
scatter of pepper over the whole, and it is ready to serve. This 
makes enough for six persons. 

POTATO SALAD. Mrs. Walker. 

Mash fine two boiled potatoes ; add one teaspoonful of mustard, 
one teaspoonful of salt, four teaspoonfuls of sweet oil, three teaspoon- 
fuls of sharp vinegar ; add the yolks of two boiled eggs rubbed fine ; 
mix first the egg and potato; and the mustard and salt; gradually mix 
the oil, stirring all the while; add the vinegar last. The more stirred 
the better it will be. 

POTATO SALAD. Mrs. Dyer. 

For a good-sized dish of boiled cold potatoes take the yolks of two 
hard-boiled eggs, yolk of one raw egg, one-half teaspoonful pepper, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of mustard, two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar, one-half cup of oil, celery, and onions chopped 
fine. 

TOMATO SALAD. Mrs. C. A. Grow. 

* 
Place ripe tomatoes some time before wanting on ice. Just before 

serving, pare and cut into slices. Arrange on a flat dish with a little 
mayonnaise dressing on each slice. Garnish with a delicate border 
of parsley. 

CREAM SLAW. Mrs. Charles Ames. 

Shave, not chop, cabbage very fine, sprinkle over it a little salt and 
black pepper; put on the stove to warm a lump of butter the size of 
a walnut, with a little flour dredged in; when this is melted together 
stir into it three tablespoonfuls of cream, and let it come to a boil; 
remove from the stove, then turn in the shaved cabbage and stir 
thoroughly, and add at the last a beaten egg. 

SlfiTO fldllfPrtiflDPrV / Ladies' and Gentlemen's Ice Cream and Coffee Saloon, 
1 y } I 416 Twelfth Street. Win, J. F, Laage, Prop, 



SOUPS. 

SOUP STOCK. Mrs. Israel Knox. 

One good stock is the foundation of all soups. 

To a two-bit shin of beef I add what beefsteak and other meat 
bones I may have, add six quarts of water, cover tightly, and boil 
gently all day. Strain at night and set away to cool. The next day 
skim the fat from it and if the stock is not a thick jelly, put it on the 
stove and boil still longer. This should make three quarts of rich 
jelly, to which you can add rice, barley, macaroni, vermicelli or vege- 
tables, or whatever you fancy as a flavoring. (The fat I skim from 
the soup I put on the stove and boil until it is transparent, pour it 
into a small pan or tin and use it in place of butter or lard for cook- 
ing. It is much superior to butter or lard for frying or shortening.) 

MOCK TURTLE OR CALF'S-HEAD SOUP. 
Mrs. J. K. McLean. 

One large calf s head, four pig's feet. 

This soup should always be prepared the day before it is to be 
served up. Lay the head and feet in the bottom of a large pot, and 
cover with a gallon of water. Let it boil three hours, or until the 
flesh will easily slip from the bones. Take out the head, leaving in 
the feet, allow these to boil steadily, while you cut meat from the head. 
Select enough of the fatty portions which lie in the top of the head 
and the cheeks to fill a teacup, and set aside to cool. Remove the 
brains to a saucer, and also set aside. Chop the rest of the meat, 
with the tongue very fine; season with salt, pepper, powdered mar- 
joram, and thyme, teaspoon of cloves, teaspoon of mace, half as 
much allspice, a grated nutmeg, and return to the pot. When flesh 
falls from pig's feet, take out the latter, leaving the meat. Boil all 
together slowly, without removing cover, for two hours more, then 
set away till next day. An hour before dinner, set on stock to warm. 
When it boils strain carefully, drop in the meat which you have 
reserved, which when cold, should be cut in small squares. Have 
these all ready as well as the force-meat balls. To prepare these, 

Offlui Transfer Co. {, 



1 2 SOUPS. 

rub yolks of five hard-boiled eggs to a paste, adding gradually the 
brains to moisten them, also a little butter and salt. Mix with these 
two eggs beaten very light, flour your hands, and make this paste 
into balls about the size of pigeon's eggs; put these into the soup about 
five minutes before taking from the fire, stir a large tablespoonful of 
browned flour, rubbed smooth in some cold water, let it boil up, 
add juice of one lemon, ft should not boil more than one-half 
hour on second day. Serve with sliced lemon. 

CREAM OF BARLEY SOUP. Mrs. Wheeler. 

GERMAN STYLE. 

Soak the barley over night. In the morning pour the water off, 
add fresh and Boil ten minutes. Then cover with bouillon. Put 
in it one onion and a bouquet. Let it boil slowly two hours; then 
strain through a sieve, allowing most of the barley to pass through. 
Place on the stove and boil five minutes. Skim the fat off and add 
a cup of rich milk or cream. If desired, add the beaten yolks of 
two eggs. 

TOMATO SOUP. Mrs. Pliny Bartlett. 

Four good-sized tomatoes, boiled with skins on, in a quart of 
water. Put in a colander and mash; then put a teaspoonful of soda 
in the tomatoes. Boil one quart of milk, add butter, pepper and 
salt, same as for oyster soup. Roll a cracker and put it in the milk, 
add the two together and serve. 

CELERY CREAM. 

Take a quart of clear soup stock or the water in which chickens 
have been boiled; put on the stove half a cup of rice in a pint of 
rich milk, grating into it the white part and roots of a head of celery. 
Let the rice and milk cook very slowly at the back of the stove, 
adding more milk if it gets stiff. Season with salt and a little white 
pepper. Strain, add it to stock (warmed) and boil together for a few 
minutes. It should look like rich cream and be strongly flavored 
with celery. This makes three pints of soup. 

ONION SOUP. Mrs. Israel Knox. 

A SOUP WITHOUT MEAT, AND DELICIOUS. 

Put into a saucepan butter size of a pigeon's egg. Clarified grease, 

J. Letter, Gentlemen's Furnishing Goons, 1001 Broadway, 



SOUPS. 13 

or the cakes of fat saved from the top of stock or soup answers as well. 
When very hot add two or three large onions, sliced thin ; stir, and cook 
them well until they are red ; then add a half teacupful of flour ; stir this 
also until it is red, watching it constantly, that it does not burn. Now 
pour in about a pint of boiling water, and add pepper and salt; 
mix it well and let it boil for a minute, then pour it into the soup- 
kettle and place it at the back of the range until almost ready to 
serve. Add then one and one-half pints or one quart of boiling 
milk, and two or three well-mashed potatoes. Add to the potatoes a 
little of the soup at first, then more, until the potatoes are smooth 
and thin enough to put into the soup-kettle. Stir all well and 
smoothly together; taste, to see if the soup is properly seasoned with 
pepper and salt, as it requires plenty. Let it simmer for a few 
moments. i, 

Put pieces of toasted bread, cut in diamond shape, in the bottom 
of the tureen, pour over the soup and serve very hot. Or, this soup 
might be made without potatoes, if more convenient, using more flour 
and all milk, instead of a little water. However, it is better with the 
potato addition; or it is much improved by adding stock instead of 
water; or, if one would chance to have a boiled chicken, the water 
in which it was boiled might be saved to make this soup. 



SOUP IN TWO HOURS. Mrs. Van Blarcom. 

Two pounds of lean,' juicy beef, three quarts of water, vegetables 
to your taste. Let the butcher cut the meat into quite small pieces, 
and the cook chop the vegetables. Simmer well, but do not allow it 
to boil hard, When ready to serve, strain it and serve as a clear 
soup, or add sago. Light egg dumplings are very nice in this soup. 



CORN SOUP. Very nice.- -Mrs. R. E. Cole. 

Cut or grate carefully the corn from one dozen ears. Put the cobs 
into a kettle with one quart of water, and boil twenty minutes. 
Remove the eobs and add to the water the corn and one quart of 
milk, and boil for ten minutes. Remove from the fire, season with 
salt and pepper to taste, and a large piece of butter ; stir in two well 
beaten eggs. 



Try Fish & Go's Block Bolter, Eighth anil Market. 



14 SOUPS. 

BEAN SOUR Mrs. R. E. Cole. 

One pint of beans boiled until very tender with two quarts of 
water, strain through a colander, rubbing the beans through, return 
to the fire and add one quart or more of milk, and let it boil up 
once, add salt, pepper, and butter; it requires a good deal of season- 
ing, but is well worth the material. 

CLAM CHOWDER. Mrs. R. E. Cole. 

Fifty clams, two large slices of pork, one-third roll of butter, two 
dozen large potatoes, one-half pound of Boston crackers. Slice the 
potatoes thin; put them in a shallow pan with water enough to 
cover them ; let them cook tender, but not enough to break by 
handling. Cut the black heads from the clams; cut the pork in 
small bits and fry brown; put a layer of clams onto the pork, then a 
layer of potatoes, then a layer of crackers (split open). Season with 
salt and pepper, and a portion of the butter; continue to do so until 
you have used all your material; pour over the whole the juice of 
the clams, and the water the potatoes were boiled in; then add 
enough hot milk to make a thin stew; it will take two or three quarts. 
Boil slowly five, to eight minutes, watching carefully that it does not 
scorch. Longer cooking will make the clams tough. 

RECIPE FOR CLAM CHOWDER For a Family of Four. 
Mrs. R. W. Snow. 

Cut one-quarter pound salt pork in small pieces, put it into a 
kettle and brown, then add one sliced onion and let it brown; tc 
this add four potatoes, cut in thin slices, season with pepper and salt. 
cover this with water, and cook until soft ; then add milk and the 
clam water, also three crackers; lastly, put in the clams and let the 
chowder come to a boil. 

CRAB SOUR Mrs. Dyer. 

One good-sized crab, to one quart of milk; take the white mea 
from the shell, and divide in small pieces ; after boiling the milk, adc 
the crab, and thicken with sifted crackers. When done add a spoonfu 
of butter; season tc; taste with pepper and salt. 

Use Kelsey & Flint's Flavoring Eitracts. 



soi" PS. 15 

DELMONICO'S RECIPE FOR OYSTER STEW. ' 

Take one quart of liquid oysters ; put the liquor (a teacupful for 
three) in a stew-pan, add half as much more water, salt, good bit of 
pepper, teaspoonful of rolled cracker for each. Put on the stove and 
boil; have your oysters ready in a bowl; the moment it begins to 
boil, pour in all your oysters say ten for each person. Now watch 
carefully; as soon as it begins to boil, take out your watch, count 
just thirty seconds; take your oysters from the stove; have a large 
dish ready with one and one-half tablespoons of cold milk for each 
person; pour your stew on this milk, and serve immediately. Never 
boil an oyster in milk. 

* 

TOMATO SOUP. Mrs. A. Z. Stone. 

One can of tomatoes, one quart of water, and one onion; strain 
and return to the kettle and add one pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls 
of browned flour, piece of butter the size of an egg, and salt and 
pepper. Strain into a tureen. 



NlCOLL/TheTailor. 



J"CTST 

A flue assortment of Foreign ani Domestic Woolens for this Season. 



m 11 i t-P i* * I Suits to order, from $20 00 

Gill Ond $ OU W FattnU Pantstoorder,from....$500 

\ Overcoats to Order, from $20 



Also, to accommodate our numerous country patrons visiting the city for a 
short time, I have added a splendid stock of 

Men's, Boys' and Children's Ready-Made Suits and Overcoats, 

Manufactured by ourselves, after the most approved and latest styles in custom- 
made patterns. Well cut, well made, stylish and cheap. You will do well to 
inspect before purchasing elsewhere Civility to all. No trouble to show goods. 



Nl COLL, The Tailor, 

Phelan's Building, 816-818 Market St., San Francisco 

BRANCH STORES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES. 



FISH. 



Fish can be scaled much easier by being laid in -boiling water 
about a minute. 

Salt fish are quickest and best freshened by soaking in sour milk. 

Some varieties of fish that are very fine boiled or baked, are taste- 
less broiled or fried. 

White fish are the best broiled, but very good boiled. Trout 
should always be boiled or baked; black bass, broiled if small; 
boiled when large ; fresh mackerel should always be broiled ; salmon, 
always be boiled; perch, smelt, brook trout and flounders are all 
better fried. 

FISH A LA CREMK Mrs. Kellogg. 

Three pounds of fish, fresh cod, or any nice white fish ; boil till 
tender, then remove the bones; mince it fine; season with salt, pep- 
per and lemon. One quart of milk boited with two onions until they 
are in shreds. Rub to a cream one-half pound of butter and two 
large tablespoonfuls of flour; turn the boiling milk through a sieve 
upon it, and return all to the saucepan ; boil again, taking care to 
stir it so as to keep from burning or getting in lumps. Grate the 
rind of a lemon, and, with one-half a tumbler of wine, mix through the 
fish. Grate a loaf of bread through a colander; take the platter the 
fish is to be served on, and put first a layer of dressing on the dish, 
then the fish; repeat this until the dish is as full as you wish, making 
the top layer of dressing; then put the bread crumbs smoothly on 
the top, making an oval. Fill a bread-pan with water; put the plat- 
ter upon it in the oven, and let it remain until it is a nice brown. 
When done put slices of parsley and lemon around it. 

CUSK A LA CREME (Another way) Mrs. S. Richards. 

I use sturgeon, generally taking about two pounds. Rub the fish 
well with salt; put it into a kettle with enough boiling water to cover 
it. Put the juice of one lemon in the water. As soon as it boils, 
put it one side where it will just simmer. Let it stand for one hour; 
then take it up and draw out all the bones. Put one ounce of flour 

EA Rrnwn i Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Wood and Coal, 110 and 412 
. A. Dill W II, j Eleventh street. 



FISH. 17 

in a saucepan, to which add by degrees one quart of cream or milk, 
mixing it very smoothly; then add an onion, small, chopped very fine, 
a bunch of parsley, little nutmeg, salt and pepper. Put this on the 
fire, stirring till it forms a thick sauce. Stir in one-fourth pound of 
butter; strain sauce through the sieve; put some in bottom of the 
dish ; lay fish in, and pour the rest of the sauce over it. Beat to a 
froth the whites of six eggs, and spread over the whole. Set in the 
oven and bake light brown. 

FILLET OF SOLE AU GRATIN. Mrs. Chickering. 

Choose two flounders, weighing about three pounds. Lay them 
on the table with the dark side uppermost; with a sharp, thin-bladed 
knife cut down to the backbone, following the dark line in the middle 
of the fish, then turn the edge of the knife outward and cut towards 
the fins, keeping the blade flat against the bone, and removing one- 
fourth of the flesh of the fish in a single piece; proceed in the same 
way until you have eight fillets (this can be done at the fish market) 
carefully cut the skin from them, season with salt and pepper, lay 
them on a buttered dish, suitable to send to table, sprinkle thickly 
with sifted cracker crumbs, and a little grated Parmesan or any rich 
cheese; put a few bits of butter over them, using not more than one 
ounce, two tablespoonfuls in all, and brown them in a quick oven. 
Serve them as soon as they are nicely browned. This is a very 
savory and delicate dish, requiring some practice to do nicely, but 
comparatively inexpensive, and well worth all the trouble taken in 
making it. 

CLUB-HOUSE FISH CAKES. Mrs. Chickering. 

Wash and boil one quart of potatoes, putting them on the fire in 
cold water enough to cover them, and a tablespoonful of salt Put 
one and one-half pounds of salt codfish on the fire in plenty of cold 
water, and bring it slowly to a boil; as soon as it boils throw off that 
water, and put it again on the fire in fresh cold water; if the fish is 
very salt, change the water a third time. Free the fish from skin and 
bones; peel the potatoes, mash them through a colander with a 
potato masher, season with one-fourth saltspoonful of pepper, and 
one ounce of butter; add the yolks of two eggs, and the fish; mix 
well and make into cakes, using a little flour to prevent sticking to 
the hands. Fry them golden brown, in enough smoking hot fat to 

Win V Dnwoll i Notary Public and Conveyancer, 458 Ninth St. Residence, 
Win. L nOWGllj ( 410 Thirteenth St., First House East of Broadway, Oakland. 



1 8 FISH . 

nearly cover them; observe that in frying any article of food it will 
not soak fat if the latter be hot enough to carbonize the outside at 
once, and smoking hot fat will do that. 

FRIED SOLE. Mrs. Wheeler. 

Remove the bones from a sturgeon; cut in slanting pieces about 
one-fourth of an inch thick, dip "in beaten egg, roll in bread crumbs, 
cook by dropping into boiling lard. Use French mustard, oil and 
vinegar, beaten together for sauce. 

FRIED FLOUNDER. 

Dip the fish in milk, then in flour, then drop in boiling fat until 
brown. 

SALT COD. (BY SPECIAL REQUEST.) 

A favorite dish. Strip the fish, do not cut it. Freshen it by four 
or five hours' soaking. Place over the fire in a fish-kettle with plenty 
of cold water. The moment it boils remove to the back of the 
stove to simmer until tender. Never allow it to boil fast or the fish 
will eat hard and thready. Dish it upon a napkin, free from bones, 
and garnished with rings of hard boiled egg. Serve with egg sauce 
if you wash, but we prefer "pork scraps" fried a delicate brown. 
Potatoes, boiled onions, and beets are indispensable with this dish. 



No more Flies, Dust or Rattling Windows! 

T. BLACKBURN'S 

Iron Corner, Ornamental 

SLIDING FLY SCREENS 



Also, an Attachment for Windows anil Doors to Keep out Dnst, 

CALL. OR ADDRESS, 

531 EIGHTH STREET, - OAKLAND. 



MEATS. 



To choose good Beef see if it be of a bright red color in the lean 
part, and white in the fatty portions. Reject that which has yellowish 
suet, or spotted unequal surface. 

Healthy Mutton is of a clear, darkish red. Lamb should have the 
kidney fresh and fat, and in the forequarter the vein should be blue. 
If you buy the shoulder have your butcher remove the bone to make 
a place for dressing. 

Young Pork should be white and firm and dry. If it be darkish 
or soft to the touch, it is old and stale. 

The desirable features of Veal are whiteness and fatness, which 
show that the calf was well fed and bled. 

Choose your Chickens by seeing if the breast-bone yields to the 
touch, if the scales on the legs be smooth, and the comb red. 

Select a Goose with a clean, white skin, plump breast, and yellow 
feet. If the feet are red the bird is old. 

A young Turkey should have his legs black and smooth, his spurs 
short, and his feet limber. 

Roasting. Have a brisk oven, put only enough water in the pan 
to prevent burning; rub a very little flour over the joint, but neither 
salt nor pepper. Salt draws out the juices which it is your object to 
keep in, and parching injures the flavor of pepper. This applies also 
to broiling and frying. Always pepper after an article is cooked. 
Carefully turn your roast once that it may be browned on both sides. 

The Gravy. When the roast comes out put it on a hot dish, care- 
fully pouring off the fat, then pour into the pan a little boiling water 
and salt, and with a spoon rub off all the dried gravy on the bottom 
and sides of the pan. Add,no flour. The gravy should be thick 
enough with its own richness. If you have got your gravy too thin 
let it boil a few minutes. 

Broiling. A brisk, clear -fire is indispensable to this mode of cook- 
ing. Let the gridiron come to a gradual heat that it may not be 
burning hot on the surface. Rub the bars with a bit of clean suet 
and lay on your steak or chop which should not be more than three- 
quarters of an inch in thickness. If too thick it will be overdone on 

fir prri man's J Fragrant Kalliodont, Beautifies, Preserves the Teeth, and 
111 , lYIUI 1 llUdil ft j Charms all who use it. 



20 MEATS. 

the outside while inside it is still raw. Turn it but once while broil- 
ing, and when it is a delicate brown outside with a rare line inside it 
is finished. Lay it on a well-heated platter and dress with butter and 
a little salt. If you have allowed your fire to get too low do" not 
attempt to use the gridiron, but feed your fire anew, and if you can- 
not wait for it to burn low again, broil in a frying-pan following the 
same directions. 

Boiling. Never boil meat at a gallop. It injures the flavor and 
hardens the meat. Yet it must not go off the boil, as steeping gives 
meat an insipid taste. 

Frying. Professional cooks agree that the perfection of frying-fat 
is equal parts lard and beef drippings, and yet there are families 
where the drippings are never looked after, and all the rich fat from 
roast beef, pork, corn beef, and soup-bones goes to waste. 

To Clarify It. Put a little water in it, set it in boiling water and 
stir in a little salt. The next day it will turn out from a bowl in a 
solid cake. Scrape off the settlings and put it away for future use. 
It is as good as butter for shortening in cookies and ginger bread, 
and better than butter for meat frying. 

Batter for Frying. Three cups of sifted flour, mixed with three 
tablespoons of butter melted in warm water; pour the butter off the 
water into the flour first, then enough of the water to make a soft 
paste, which beat smooth, then more warm water till it is thick 
enough to mask the back of the spoon dipped into it, and salt to 
taste ; add, the last thing, the whites of two eggs well beaten. 



T. S. McCooL. B. A. ARMSTRONG. 

McCOOL & ARMSTRONG. 



MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF 



PICTURE FRAME MOULDINGS, 

ARTISTS' MATERIALS, PASSE-PARTOUTS, WINDOW 
CORNICES AND BRACKETS, 

OIL PAINTINGS, STEEL ENGRAVINGS ICHROMOS. 

Office and Factory, 411 Twelfth Street, Oakland, Cal. 

STOKE, 



VEGETABLES. 

All vegetables except potatoes, asparagus, peas, and cauliflower, 
should boil as fast as possible; these four only moderately. To pre- 
vent the bad odor arising from boiling cabbage, put it in plenty of 
boiling water, add a pinch of soda, cover closely, boil fast. Keep 
boiling for half an hour, no longer. 

Onions should be boiled in milk and water. Equal parts. 

Potatoes are the only vegeteable that should be put into cold water. 
They should be pared before being boiled, if you wish to have them 
mashed and look white. Pour off the water the minute they are 
done and stand on the back of the stove covered with a napkin. 
Sweet potatoes should not be pared, and they require longer cooking 
than the common potato. 

Grate Gruyere's cheese on macaroni, 

Make the top crisp, but not too bony. 

Roast veal with rich stock gravy serve ; 

And pickled mushrooms, too, observe. 

Roast pork, sans apple sauce, past doubt, 

Is Hamlet with the Prince left out. 

Your mutton chops with paper cover, 

And make them amber brown all over. 

Broil lightly your beefsteak to fry it 

Argues contempt of Christian diet. 

Buy stall-fed pigeons ; when you've got them 

The way to cook them is to pot them. 

It gives true epicures the vapors, 

To see broiled mutton minus capers. 

To roast spring chickens is to spoil 'em 

Just split them clown the back and broil 'em. 

Boiled turkey, gourmands know, of course, 

Is exquisite with Challenge Sauce. 

Egg sauce few make it right, alas ! 

Is good with blue flsh, or with bass. 

Nice oyster sauce gives zest to cod ; 

A 'fish, when fresh, to feast a god. 

Shad, stuffed and baked, is most delicious, 

'Twould have electrified Apicius. 

<3wiQQ PnufpntimiPiw ^ Ladies' and Gentlemen's Ice Cream and Coffee Saloon, 
Wlhh bUIUUbllUUOl ) , / us Twelfth Street. Win. J. P. Laage, Prop. 



Breakfast and Lunch Dishes. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. Mrs. Sanford. 

A NICE BREAKFAST DISH. 

Peel and slice raw potatoes very thin. Put them into a deep dish > 
a layer of potatoes with butter and salt, repeating until the dish is 
full. Pour in sweet milk till it may be seen at the edge of the 
dish by pressing down the potatoes. Bake half an hour in a quick 
oven. 

POTATOES FOR LUNCH. 

Take large, mealy potatoes, bake slowly until well done; carefully 
remove the inside by cutting an opening in one end, mash and season 
well with salt, pepper and cream; return to the skin and sew; place in 
the oven, and when very hot, send to the table. 

STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS. Mrs. Dart 

Cut the tops off the bell pepper, and remove the seed. Take two 
of the long green peppers, one small onion, one large tomato peeled, 
and chop all together very fine. Add stale'bread crumbs sufficient to 
fill five peppers, a "teaspoonful of salt, and sweet oil enough to 
moisten the whole. Fill the peppers and replace the tops. To be 
prepared on the day they are to be used. 

SCALLOPED OYSTER PLANT. Mrs. Morse. 

Boil the oyster plant until perfectly tender, then take out of the 
water and rub through a colander, Add butter, pepper, salt and 
milk. Put in a baking dish and cover the top with bread crumbs, 
with here and there a small piece of butter. Set in the oven and 
bake a delicate brown. 

DORMERS. Mrs. Van Blarcom. 

Two cups of cold mutton chopped fine, one cup boiled rice, a 
little suet, one egg, pepper and salt. Mix well the rice, meat, and 

(tot yonr Baking Powier of Kelsey & Flint, 



BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. 23 

sHet, with high seasoning of pepper and salt. Make into balls; dip 
them into the beaten egg, and cover with bread crumbs. Fry in hot 
drippings a nice brown. Serve with a little made gravy poured over 
them. 

CORN OYSTERS. Mrs. Carpenter. 

Twelve ears of sweet corn grated, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon 
pepper, two eggs beaten into two spoons flour. Mix well and fry 
brown butter or sweet lard 

BAKED CAULIFLOWER. Mrs. Wheeler. 

Boil until tender in salt and water, then drain and place in a drip- 
ping-pan with butter or nice drippings in the bottom ; season with 
pepper and salt, add bread crumbs and cheese sprinkled over the 
cauliflower; then baste with melted butter, and bake slowly in the 
oven till a nice brown. 

TOMATO MACARONI. Mrs. R. E. Cole.. 

ITALIAN STYLE. 

Cook a quart of tomatoes until quite dry ; season with salt, pepper 
and butter. Cook your macaroni till tender, and drain it. Small 
cup of cheese grated or chopped fine (Swiss cheese is best.) Melt a 
piece of butter in a spider and stir in the cheese till ropy. Turn the 
tomatoes into it and season with red pepper. Pour this over the 
macaroni, serve hot. Splendid for lunch. 

BAKED TOMATOES. Mrs. Brewer. 

Butter a dish and lay the skimmed tomatoes in whole. Sprinkle 
salt, pepper and sugar over them, and then cover with fine bread or 
cracker crumbs. Bake forty minutes in a dish in which they may go 
upon the table. When half done dip the syrup over the top to moist 
the crumbs. 

E. P. Flint. 



Take ten pounds of pork (fat and lean), boil it well, take out all 
the bones, and chop it rather fine ; return the meat to the water in 

Has paid to Policy Holders, 
$5,446,382- 



24 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. 

which it was boiled, and add equal parts corn meal and buckwheat 
flour until very thick. Season well with salt, pepper and sage ; boil 
twenty minutes, put in pans to cool ; cut in thin slices, and fry a dark 
brown. 

VEAL AND HAM PRESSED. Mrs. J. T. Agard. 

TO EAT COLD. 

Equal quantities of veal and ham slices one-fourth inch thick. 
Butter a dish, lay in a slice of veal, season with salt and pepper ; then 
a slice of ham with pepper ; continue to alternate till all is used. 
Cover with a crust of flour and water. Steam three hours. Slice 
when cold. 

TONGUE WITH JELLY. Mrs Palache. 

Use either a fresh corned or a smoked tongue. If fresh, add a 
small teacup of salt ; boil until very tender ; trim and place in a 
bowl that will just hold it, and a teacup of jelly made by the following 
recipe : Put a fine, plump chicken in a saucepan with a pot of cold 
water. When very tender, remove choicest parts for a salad, and 
return remnants to the pan for a second boiling. When reduced to 
one teacup, strain, season to taste, and pour over tongue. Put to 
press with good weight in a cool place. 

BONED CHICKEN. Mrs. E. S. Cole. 

Boil a chicken in a little soup stock until the bones can be easily 
separated from the meat ; remove all the skin ; slice and mix the 
light and dark meat ; season with salt and pepper ; boil down the 
juice and pour it on the meat, and shape it like a loaf of bread. 
Wrap tightly in a cloth ; press with a heavy weight for a few hours. 
When served, cut in thin slices. 

STEWED CRAB. Mrs. Israel Knox. 

Take the meat from one boiled crab, rub one teaspoonful flour in 
one large tablespoonful butter, add one-half cup of cream or milk. 
Season high with red pepper and salt ; boil to thicken, not over five 
minutes. 

Buy jonr Fist of Edwards Bros. 468 Eleventh St, 



BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. 25 

HOT CRAB. Mrs. E. S. Cole, 

Carefully pick out the inside of a crab and the large claws, and 
mince them, mixing these thoroughly and seasoning with cayenne 
pepper and salt. Rub up a small teaspoonful of good curry powder 
in a little cold gravy or cream, or equal proportions of both, and 
mix these with the crab, adding a teaspoonful of Chile vinegar, and 
some finely-grated bread crumbs. Clean out the shell very carefully 
and put the mixture in it, sifting bread crumbs over it, and a little 
butter. Brown well. 

DEVILED CRAB. Mrs. S. Woods. 

Remove meat from crab and pick very fine. Make a cream 
sauce of a pint of milk or cream, one large tablespoonful of flour, add 
a speck of cayenne pepper, and a little salt ; one-half cup of bread 
crums, two hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine. Mix all together with 
cream sauce, add juice of one lemon. After it is in the shell, 
sprinkle with crumbs, and put little bits of butter on. 

BAKED OMELETTE. Mrs. Coxhcad. 

Three gills of milk, piece of butter size of walnut; bring to a scald; 
five eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, a little salt, a teaspoon- 
ful of flour wet to a smooth paste in milk. Pour milk in, stirring 
constantly ; then stir in the paste, put in buttered dish, bake in a 
moderate oven twenty minutes, 

BAKED OMELETTE. Mrs. f. K. McLean. 

One-half cup of milk put on to boil. Stir in the well-beaten yolks 
of six eggs till thick. A dessertspoonful of butter. Salt to taste. 
After removing from the fire add whites of six eggs, well beaten. 
The oven should be heated as for cake. Bake ten minutes. 

BREAD OMELETTE. Mrs. Everett. 

Yolks of six eggs, cup of milk, season with salt and pepper, stir in 
the whites beaten stiff. Now stir in a cup of powdered cracker. 
Cook in a frying-pan or on a griddle with as little butter as possible, 
then lay a hot dish over it and turn over the omelette on the dish. 

Kvnn want \ Goo<i Stamping for Embroidery, go to Miss J, S. Naismith's, 
)U "dill \ 1161 Broadway. 



26 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. 

The advantage of bread omelette is that it will keep tender till cold 
while others grow tough if not eaten at once. 

NICE BREAKFAST DISH. Mrs. E. S. Cole. 

Bits of nice salt pork about one-third of an inch thick, two or 
three inches square, bits of calf's liver the same size. Put these 
alternately on a long skewer, beginning and ending with pork. Lay 
it in the oven across a dripping-pan and roast as you would a bird, 
basting occasionally. When done, slide the pieces from a skewer 
and serve on a hot plate. 

BAKED MEAT STEW. Mrs. Nisivander. 

Cut any sort of cold meat, but roast beef is best, into thin slices, 
cover the bottom of an earthen baking-dish, and season with salt, 
pepper, sage or summer savory, and a very little chopped red 
pepper or cayenne ; cover with a layer of chopped onion, then 
another layer of meat, and so on until the dish is half filled, then 
pour in tomatoes, either fresh or canned, to fill the dish ; if the 
meat be very lean put in bits of butter with the seasoning, but cold 
gravy is better poured on the tomatoes. Cover with a tight-fitting 
plate, and cook in the oven slowly for two hours. To make an orna- 
mental dish, put potatoes very smoothly mashed and seasoned 
around a meat dish, like a wall about three inches high ; brush with 
the yellow of an egg and set in the oven to brown a little, then pour 
the stew inside. 

VEAL LOAF. Mrs. Niswander. 

Three and one-half pounds of veal, not too young, chopped 
finely, five small crackers rolled, one tablespoon salt, one teaspoon 
pepper, one-half nutmeg, three beaten eggs ; mix thoroughly together 
with the hand, using only one-fourth of the rolled crackers, forming 
into an oval loaf and pressing it together as firmly as possible. Spot 
it thickly with bits of butter, and strew over the rest of the crackers. 
Lay in a dripping-pan with a little water and let it cook slowly for 
two hours, basting occasionally and adding water from time to time 
so that there may be a gravy when done. It should be well done ; 
but if the browning is too rapid, turn over it a greased pan. Nice 
when cold. 



THe Traitors 



BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. 27 

CLAM PIE. Mrs. Edwards. 

One quart clams chopped fine ; place in a deep dish withont bot- 
tom crust. Season with pepper and butter. Thicken with flour or 
cracker dust, place on top three thin slices of salt pork ; then cover 
over with ordinary pie crust ; bake thirty minutes. 

CLAM FRITTERS. Mrs. Edwards. 

One quart clams, chop very fine, one teacup flour, one teaspoonful 
yeast powder, mixed well with the clams ; season to suit taste ; fry in 
hot fat. 

BOILED BEEF (Pressed.) Mrs. Niswander. 

Ten pounds good beef, rib piece preferred ; put in a saucepan with 
two quarts cold water and a small half cup salt. Cook slowly till 
very tender, taking care that the water does not entirely evaporate, 
then remove bone, gristle and skinny parts, cut the lean and fat to 
mix equally and season highly with pepper and more salt if necessary; 
put in a bowl .with a heavy weight in a cool place. 

OYSTER CAKES. Mrs. Brewer. 

FOR BREAKFAST. 

One can oysters, four medium-sized potatoes, butter the size of an 
egg, two soda, or six small crackers, salt, pepper. Take the oysters 
from the liquor and chop fine ; boil and mash the potatoes, moisten 
with part of the liquor, and butter, salt and pepper, and part of 
crackers ; mix all together and make into little cakes ; roll each one 
in cracker crumbs, and fry in plenty of hot fat. 

OYSTER FRICASSEE. Mrs. A. L. Stone. 

One quart of oysters, drain off the juice and strain it ; make a pint 
of the liquid by adding water or milk; add one tablespoonful of 
butter, one of flour, little pepper, salt and mace, boil all together, 
then put in the oysrers and -cook very little ; have ready three eggs, 
well beaten, one tablespoon lemon juice and one tablespoon chopped 
parsley, and turn on to the oysters when removed from the fire; serve 
on slices of toast. 



DP 







28 BREAKFAST AND LUXCH DISHES. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. Mrs. S. Woods. 

One generous tablespoon of flour, one pint cream, one piece of 
onion size of a dime, one very small piece of mace, one pint of 
oysters, salt, and pepper to taste. Let the cream come to' a boil with 
onion and mace ; mix flour with a little cold milk, stir into the boiling 
cream, cook eight minutes. Let the oysters come to a boil in their 
own liquor, drain and add them to the cream, having first skimmed 
out the onion and mace. Season to taste and serve on toast. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. Mrs. McLean. 

Butter a baking-dish, put a layer of cracker crumbs or rolled 
cracker in the bottom, then a layer of oyerers well seasoned with 
pepper and salt, with pieces of butter, another layer of crumbs and 
so on till the dish is filled, putting on each layer of crumbs, oyster, 
liquor and milk. The top layer should be of crumbs with abundance 
of butter and milk. Some prefer bread crumbs as they are more 
moist. 

FRIED OYSTERS. Mrs. A. M. Green. 

Drain large oysters through a sieve ; beat two eggs ; have ready 
grated bread crumbs ; sprinkle salt and a little pepper over the oys- 
ters ; dip each one in the egg and cover with bread crumbs ; put 
equal portions of lard and butter in a hot frying-pan, when boiling 
hot lay in oysters carefully ; give close attention to prevent burning 
or too much cooking. Serve hot. 

FRIED CHICKEN. Mrs. N. G. Dow. 

WITH CREAM GRAVY. 

Leave the breast whole, also the back, wings and legs, making in 
all six pieces. For three chickens have ready one gill sifted flour ; 
add one-half teaspoon each of salt and pepper. Roll each piece in 
flour, fry in hot lard and butter, equal proportions of each, one-third 
of an inch deep. As they brown, turn ; when cooked, arrange breasts 
side by side, the backs beneath, surround with legs and wings. Make 
a gravy of one pint sweet cream, one and one-half tablespoons flour, 
rub smooth in cream, one-half teaspoon salt, peper and parsley. Put 
in the lard and let simmer; pour hot over the chicken. 

Pnre Cream Tartar at Kelsey & Flint's. 



BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. 29 

FRICASSEE CHICKEN. Mrs. N. G. Dow. 

Cut the neck from the body, then the wings, then cut in two 
lengthwise through the sides ; stew, but not serve the neck. The liver 
is good. Place in a kettle with one-half pint water, tablespoonful of 
vinegar, an onion grated, pepper and salt; cover closely; stew three- 
quarters of an hour ; add one and one-half ounce butter, one spoon- 
ful chopped parsley, and just before taking up, add a beaten egg. 

DUMPLINGS FOR POTPIE. Mrt. Craig. 

> 
One cup sweet milk, two teaspoons yeast powder, a little salt, flour 

enough to make a batter that will drop from a spoon, one egg, beat- 
ing the white to a froth and stir in last ; then butter a pie tin and drop 
the batter on with the spoon ; put in a steamer and cover close ; steam 
thirty minutes. Do not check the boiling for an instant, nor remove 
the cover ; follow the directions and they will come out like snow- 
balls. 

HAM SANDWICHES. Mrs. Pitman. 

QUICKLY MADE. 

Four baker's loaves, two cans deviled ham, one roll butter (for 
spreading). This makes 125 sandwiches. Cut offend of loaf (heel 
not used), spread the open end with butter, scant, then spread on 
ham; slice; next spread open end of loaf with butter without the 
ham ; slice, and place the two buttered sides together ; cut across the 
middle, making two sandwiches. Spread loaf again, and proceed as 
before. By this process the bread can be spread very thin. If pre- 
ferred, use finely-chopped lean ham dressed with mustard ; butter and 
cream can be used and the crust of the bread cut carefully awry. 

HAM SANDWICHES, No. 2. 

Take the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, three tablespoonfuls of 
prepared mustard, and stir them with one-half pound butter, to a 
cream. Spread your bread, which must be cut thin, with this dress- 
ing, and put on it finely-chopped ham, entirely free from fat. 

CURRIED VEAL. Mrs. Everett. 

Have ready two pounds veal cutlet, cut in pieces ; several slices 
salt pork, one large onion sliced thin. Stew the cutlets gently, in 

Mnnntoin TOP Pn \ Office and De P ot 515 Fourth St., Oakland. lee delivered to 
MUlllUdill Ibu UU, 1 all parts of Oakland and Brooklyn. S. D. Smith, Manager, 



30 BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. 

water enough to jcover them, until tender. Set aside ; keep warm. 
Fry out the slices of pork and in the fat fry the onion very brown 
and remove (not served). Now brown the stewed cutlets in this fat 
and place them in the center of a large platter ; keep hot. Next", stir 
the liquor from the stew and the pork fat together; let it boil up and 
then thicken with three teaspoons curry powder; add a little lemon 
juice or a little vinegar, and "pour the gravy thus made over the 
platter, having previously piled around the meat a border of boiled 
rice (the only vegetable needed with this dish). 

To boil the Rice. Twenty minutes before serving wash thoroughly 
two cups of rice, and throw into two quarts of boiling water ; add a 
little salt, and boil until tender ; the grains should be whole and sep- 
arate, and quite white, which is always the case when plenty of water 
is used. Chicken can be curried in the same manner, using butter 
if preferred, instead, of pork. 
* 

BEEF A LA DAUBE. Mrs. Israel Knox. 

For a family of six, take three pounds of a round of beef, season 
highly with salt, blatk pepper and cayenne, fry a few slices of pork 
in the bottom of your kettle until a very light brown ; dredge the 
seasoned meat thickly with flour, place in the kettle with a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut, and a few slices of onion and carrot; add 
no liquid. Cover very close so the steam cannot escape, and steam 
slowly three or four hours. Serve with rice. 

A LA MODE BEEF. Miss Perkins. 

Chop an onion, half a carrot, half a turnip, a little parsley and 
celery, and place in a round-bottom kettle, together with one-quarter 
of a pound of fat salt pork, one tablespoonful butter, a little pepper, 
salt and sage. Upon these place three pounds of beef, cut from the 
upper part of the round, well dredged with flour, and fry until brown ; 
turn the meat often. Add about a quart of boiling water, cover, and 
simmer gently about three hours. Strain the gravy over the meat, 
having first skimmed off all the fat, and serve. The dish may be 
garnished with potato balls or butter onions. 

CHICKEN PIE. Mrs. Wheeler. 
Take two good-sized chickens and prepare as for stewing. Cover 

3, Letter, Gentlemen's Furnishing tods, 1001 Broadway, 



BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. 31 

with water, season with salt and pepper, and boil gently until the 
bones slip from the meat. Take out the chicken and thicken the 
liquor with a little flour. Remove the large bones from the fowl ; 
have ready a paste made as for strawberry short-cake ; line a six-quart 
milk-pan with the paste, and partially bake before filling. Then add 
the chicken and gravy ; put on the upper crust slit several times, wet 
over the top with milk, and bake slowly until it is a nice brown. 

CHICKEN PIE. Mrs. J. C. Hays. 

Two nice tender chickens, one sweet-bread, two dozen raw oysters, 
one onion, half a dozen small peppers (size of a pea). Stew the 
chickens with the peppers and onion. (The latter must be taken out 
whole). Season with salt, pepper and butter. Thicken with flour 
and set aside to cool. Stew the sweet-bread, and when cold, cut in 
slices. Make a nice puff paste, line your dish and place a cup in 
the center ; next lay the chicken and sweet-bread in the dish, and 
stew the oysters evenly over them ; cover with upper crust ; make 
small holes near the center, and bake. 

BAKED BEANS. 

Soak one quart of small pea beans over night, next morning par- 
boil them, pour off the water, add more, and cook until they are a 
little tender ; place in a deep dish, season with salt and one table- 
spoonful of molasses. Take one pound of pork, partly lean, score 
and conceal, except the rind, in the middle of the beans, cover with 
boiling water and bake from four to six hours. If the beans become 
dry add more water. 



DIAMONDS. FRENCH CLOCKS. 



S. LATH HOP, 

an 



:=", SKSK. 

AND Twelfth Streets, 

SILVERWARE, OAKLAND, GAL. 



WHITE BREAD! 

NICE BREAD 



-o 



Horace Davis & Go's 

BEST ROLLER MILL FLOUR. 



HORACE DAVIS & GO'S 




BEST ROLLER MILL FLOUR 



(THIS OUT IS OUST 



IT IS MADE OF THE 

CREAM OF WHEAT 



BREAD. 



RULES FOR BREAD MAKING. 

Do not mix the dough too stiff. Remember it should be as soft as 
can be handled. 

Keep it warm enough while rising. Remember a chill is fatal to 
your sponge. 

Allow it long enough time to rise. Remember the old couplet, 

"Half- raised bread, 

Putty and lead." 

Twice its bulk is a good rule for a second rising. 

FAMILY BREAD. Mrs. Israel Knox. 

I use, and can conscientiously recommend, Horace Davis and Go's 
Best Roller Mill Flour. It is what it professes to be the cream of 
wheat. To one quart of sweet milk, take one-third of a compressed 
yeast cake, and three teaspoonfuls of white sugar; stir in flour until 
you have a dough so stiff that it will not run or drop from a spoon; 
set it in a moderately warm room and let it rise until morning ; then 
put flour on your kneading-board, mold your loaves about two inches 
thick,' and put in pans (handling as little as possible) and let it rise 
again, When ready for the oven prick the loaves through to the 
bottom with a fork; bake half an hour. When taken from the oven, 
roll lightly in a bread-cloth until cool. I use a piece of flannel or 
old tablecloth. . , 

In the morning if you wish delicious gems, dip with a spoon some 
of this same dough and fill your gem pans two-thirds full and bake 
for breakfast. Ten or fifteen minutes will bake them a beautiful 
brown. Thus from this same dough you have both bread and gems 
that are delicious, without shortening of any kind. If you wish hot 
biscuits for lunch, you have only to save a small portion of this 
dough, roll it thin, and spread with butter or shortening, fold it a few 
times, using all the time just flour enough to handle, roll to about 
half an inch thick, and put in your pans and let rise again, which 
takes two or three hours. Your biscuit will bake in from seven to 
ten minutes, and unless you wish the crust very crisp, fold in a nap. 
kin and send to the table. 

A T nil pi J ^ incomplete without Dr, Merriman's 
A iUlltJl \ Fragrant Kalliodont. 



34 BREAD. 

POTATO YEAST. 

Six Irish potatoes, peeled and grated, one cup sugar, one-half cup 
salt ; pour over these about one quart of boiling water, enough to 
cover them ; when cool, add one pint yeast, and set away to rise. 
This recipe will make about six bottles of yeast. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. Mrs. Niswander. 

Scald one pint of milk, stir in one heaping tablespoonful of short- 
ening, one teaspoonful of salt ; when lukewarm pour into one quart 
of sifted flour, mixed with one teacupful of white sugar ; dissolve 
one-third of a cake of compressed yeast in a little milk and stir in 
with flour sufficient to make a stiff batter ; when light knead for 
fifteen minutes ; when raised again, knead for five minutes ; make 
into small rolls and when very iight, bake. 

LIGHT ROLLS. Mrs. S. Woods. 

Scald one quart of milk, melt in it a piece of butter the size of an 
egg ; when cool add one egg well beaten, one-half or two-thirds cake 
of German Compressed Yeast dissolved in milk (the sponge will rise 
quicker if two-thirds of the cake is used); a little salt, tablespoonful 
sugar. Thicken with flour to a batter as thick as muffin batter. 
Let it rise, and when light add flour to mold lightly. Let it rise 
again, then roll out and spread melted butter over the top ; cut 
out and fold together ; let it rise the third time, and bake in a quick 
oven ten minutes. The oven must be hot ; much depends on 
baking. 

If one-half the milk is used, and when scalded, cold water is 
added to make the quart, the rolls will be lighter and more delicate 
for the first day, but are dry and stale the next day. 

BEATEN BISCUIT. Mrs. Clarke. 

One pint flour, tablespoon lard, a little salt ; water sufficient to 
make a soft dough ; work it long and well with the hands or beat it 
with the rolling-pin, on this depends the lightness and excellence ; 
roll about an inch thick, cut with biscuit cutter ; bake in a quick 
oven. 

Cnre for Coiisnmijtioii, at Fish & Go's. Eighth and Market, 



BREAD. 35 

NEW MILK BREAD. Mrs. Parsons. 

One pint new milk, one pint boiling water poured on the milk, 
flour as thick as for fritters, set in a warm place (not hot enough to 
harden the dough on the bottom of the pan). After it has foamed 
up add a little salt, and knead with as little flour as possible. Put in 
pans and let it rise again about twenty minutes, and bake. 

BISCUIT FOR A SMALL FAMILY. Mrs. Craig. 

One cup sweet milk, half a teaspoonful salt, three tablespoons 
melted butter or sweet lard, two and a half cups flour, three tea- 
spoons baking powder. Bake immediately. (Makes one dozen). 
Drop biscuit can be made the same way by adding less flour and 
dropping from a spoon on a buttered tin. 

SODA BISCUIT. Mrs. Nugent. 

Sift into one quart of flour, two heaping teaspoons baking powder; 
stir it through, then rub in a piece of butter the size of an egg, and 
one-half teaspoon of salt ; mix lightly with water or sweet milk, as soft 
as it can be rolled out ; roll quite quick, and cut with a small cutter- 
Bake in a quick oven. 

SALLY LUNN. Mrs. Carpenter. 

Beat two eggs very light, over which pour one cup of sweet milk, 
one-third cup of sugar, two tablespoons melted butter, a little salt 
two cups of flour, and three teaspoons baking powder. Bake in a 
moderate oven. 

MUSH MUFFINS. Mrs. Flint. 

Take one quart warm Indian meal mush, piece of butter as large 
as an egg ; thin it with milk, about one pint, then thicken it with 
wheat flour, a little salt ; make it as thick as you can well stir it, put 
in your yeast, and set to rise. Bake in muffin rings. 

MUFFINS. Mrs. Woods. 

Four cups flour, two cups of milk quite warm, two eggs, butter 
size of a walnut, one good tablespoonful of yeast, one teaspoonful of 

Buy your Fisli of Edwards Bros, 468 Elerath St, 



36 BREAD. 

sugar with the eges. Let it rise a few minutes in the tins or bake 
immediately in muffin rings. 

WAFFLES. 

The same as for muffins, only a little less flour, and more butter, 
the cups not quit so full. 

POPOVERS. Mrs. Agard. 

One cup milk, one cup flour, salt ; mix together and add two eggs 
well beaten. Bake in gem irons. To be eaten with sauce. 

SQUASH GRIDDLE CAKES. Mrs. R. E. Cole. 

One cup squash boiled and strained through a colander, two eggs, 
one quart of milk, a pinch of salt, flour to make it of a consistency 
for frying, one-half teaspoon yeast powder ; wet up over night, and 
in the morning stir in one-eighth teaspoon of soda dissolved in 
water. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. Mrs. E. P. Flint. 

Take lukewarm water and add buckwheat sufficient to make a very 
thick batter ; put in your yeast with a little salt, beat a long time. 
Just before frying them add one-half teacup milk with one-half tea- 
spoonful soda dissolved in it. Put in as gently as possible without 
stirring the batter. 

CORN CAKES. Mrs. E. S. Cole. 

FOR BREAKFAST. 

One egg, one-half cup sugar, one cup sour cream, one of corn 
meal, one of flour, one-half teaspoon soda. 

CORN BREAD. Mrs. Luke Doe. 

Two cups of flour, one cup of corn meal ,two eggs, two large 
spoons of sugar, one large spoon of melted butter, two spoons of 
yeast powder, salt, and milk enough to make a thin batter ; bake in 
gem pans. 

BROWN BREAD. Mrs. R.,E. Cole. 
One pint bowl of corn meal, one pint bowl of rye meal, small 



BREAD. 37 

coffeecup full of molasses, heaping teaspoonful of soda, salt. Pour 
your molasses over your meal, add salt, and then wet it quite soft 
with sour milk ; dissolve the soda in boiling water and stir it the last 
thing. Put it in a vessel with a tight cover, and steam four or five 
hours. A large loaf will requ re six or more hours. 

BAKED BROWN BREAD. Mrs. Sackrider. 

Three cups corn meal, two cups rye meal, three-quarters of a cup 
of molasses, one egg, one quart sweet milk, one tablespoon ful of 
lard, a little salt, two heaping teaspoonfuls of yeast powder ; bake in 
a tin pudding dish or a lard pail, closely covered ; for three hours 
slowly. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. Mrs. S. T. Fisher. 
One egg, one-third cup sugar, one pint sour milk, one and one-half 
cups white flour, two cups com meal, two teaspoonfuls soda, a little 
sa!t. When prepared put it in a buttered pan immediately over 
boiling water. Steam three hours or more ; bake one-half an hour. 
This will be good without the egg. 

BROWN BREAD. Mrs. Kellogg. 

Three and one-half small cups milk, one cup molasses, three cups 
corn meal, one cup Graham, one cup white flour, one teaspoonful 
soda, salt. Steam four hours, then bake fifteen minutes. 

GRAHAM BREAD. Mrs. Coxhead. 

Two quarts Graham flour, one pint fine flour, one cup molasses, 
teaspoonful of salt, and one-fourth of a cake compressed yeast. Stir 
together at night with little more than a quart of lukewarm water, or 
milk and water; in the morning when light, knead and mold into 
loaves the same as white bread, only very soft. When light (but not 
too light) bake a little longer time than white bread. 

CORN BREAD. Miss Perkins. 

Two cnps of corn meal, one cup of Graham or white flour, one- 
half cup of molasses, one egg, one cup of sour milk in which is dis- 
solved one teaspoonful of soda. Mix very thin with sweet milk. Put 
a little melted butter in the pan. Bake about ten minutes in a hot 
oven. 

(For other bread and breakfast cakes, see "Chapter for Dyspeptics.") 

Mice P Q BiiPll i Decorative Art Rooms. Fancy Work of all Kinds. 
MISS L, 0, BUB11, j 1118 Washington Street, Oakland, 



Melrose Baking Powder. 



ALWAYS PURE! FULL WEIGHT 
AND FULL STRENGTH! 



Housekeepers who want good, healthy Bread, deli- 
cious Biscuits, Cakes or Muffins should use 



It contains none of the poisonous ingredients so 
commonly used in baking powders to increase the 
weight. 

MELI^OSE is a pure Cream Tartar and Soda 
Baking Powder, it contains 

NO STARCH, AMMONIA OR ALUM ! 



ONE TRIAL will convince any housekeeper of its 
superiority over all other baking powders. 

Wellman, Peck & Co., 
120 to 132 Market St., anil 23 ant 25 California St., San Francisco. 



CAKE. 



RULES EOR CAKE. 

Have the ingredients all measured and ' prepared and the tins 
prepared and buttered before mixing materials.. 

Sift the cream of tartar, or baking powder, well into the flour ; be 
sure that the baking powder is pure. We heartily recommend the 
"Merrose." Dissolve the soda in the milk, or, if no milk is used, in 
a little warm water. 

Roll the sugar ; beat the butter to a cream ; mix butter and sugar 
together. 

Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately, and add them 
gradually to the'butter and sugar. 

Next add the milk, if used, or the dissolved soda, not using the 
dregs Last the prepared flour, stir as little as possible after adding 
the flour. 

When fruit is used it should be dredged with flour, and added the 
last thing. 

Cake to be light should be baked slowly at first, until the batter is 
evenly heated all through. 

Cake is much more delicate made with pulverized sugar than with 
a coarser kind. 

Eggs will beat lighter and quicker if they are put in a basin of 
cold water half an hour before using. 

REPUBLICAN CAKE. Mrs. E. S. Cole. 

One pound flour, one pound sugar, one-half pound butter, four 
eggs, one teacup sour cream, one-half teaspoon soda, coffeecup 
raisins, one-half a nutmeg, a little mace. 

IMPERIAL CAKE. Mrs. E. S. Cole. 

One pound of butter, one pound powdered sugar, one pound flour, 
one pound raisins, one pound sweet almonds blanched and cut thin, 
one-half pound citron cut thin, ten eggs, one nutmeg. Beat the butter 
and sugar and cream, then the eggs thoroughly and add next, then 

&3t all your Fancy fort tone at Miss Naismitl's. 1161 Broadway. 



40 CAKE. 

the sifted flour ; sprinkle the fruit lightly with flour before adding to 
the mixture. It requires to be well baked. Half the recipe makes 
a good-sized loaf. 

MYRTLE CAKE. Mrs. Richards. 

Five eggs, beaten lightly, three cups sugar, one cup butter beaten 
with the sugar, one cup milk, four cups sifted flour, grated rind of 
one lemon, small teaspoon soda. This will make two good-sized 
loaves. 

POUND CAKE. Mrs E. S. Cole. 

One pound flour, one pound sugar, three-fourths pound butter, 
nine eggs, three of the whites out, one spoonful rose water. 

LITTLE POUND CAKES. Miss Flint. 

A good three-fourths cup butter, one cup white sugar, two cups 
flour, three eggs beaten separately, one teaspoon baking powder, one 
half cup milk, little nutmeg, and one teaspoon bitter almonds. 

NEW ENGLAND ELECTION CAKE. Mrs. E. S. Cole. 

Two cups good strong yeast, three cups milk, two cups sugar. 
Flour to make a very stiff batter with the hand. Let it rise over 
night. In the morning add three cups of sugar and two of butter 
(some prefer one of butter and one of lard), mix to a cream, two 
nutmegs, one teaspoon pulverized mace. Let it rise. When well 
risen pour it into the baking pans, adding a large bowl of stoned 
raisins and citron. Rise well and bake one hour. 

CORN STARCH CAKE. Mrs. Porter. 

Whites of three eggs well beaten, one cup of sugar, one-half cup 
of butter, one cup of milk, half cup corn starch, two cups of flour, 
one teaspoonful of cream tartar and half teaspoonful of soda, flavor 
with lemon. 

SPRINGFIELD CREAM PUFFS. Mrs. A. P. Flint. 

Two cups of water, one cup of butter, two cups of flour. Boil 
the butter and water together, and stir in the flour while boiling. 

EA Rrnwn * Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Wood and Coal, 410 and 412 
A- DrOWn, \ Ninth Street, 



CAKE. 41 

When cool add six eggs, not beaten, and stir well. Drop in pans 
the size of an egg. Have a quick oven ; bake twenty-five minutes ; 
avoid opening the oven while baking. Cream for the above two 
cups of milk, one cup of sugar, three-fourths cup of flour, two eggs 
beaten with the sugar. Add the flour, and stir into the milk while 
boiling. Flavor with vanilla. 

SNOW DROPS. Mrs. Everett. 

One cup butter, two cups su ',ar, whites of five eggs, one-half cup 
milk, three cups flour, two teaspoons yeast powder. Bake in small 
round tins and frost. (Pretty for children's parties). 

MOUNTAIN CAKE. Mrs. Agard. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup. butter, one-half cup milk, two cups 
flour, two eggs, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, 
nutmeg. Suggestion Frosting will keep a long time without hard- 
ening, if two or three spoonfuls of dissolved gelatine is stirred in 
when making. 

HARRISON CAKE. Mrs. Brewer. 

To two cups molasses, add one of brown sugar, one of butter, 
one of sour cream or milk, one of raisins seeded, one of cur- 
rants, and half a cup citron; a teaspoon each of clove, cinnamon, 
allspice and nutmeg, and two (small) saleratus. To mix it, cut the 
butter in little pieces, and put into a saucepan with the molasses ; 
when the molasses boils up, pour it immediately upon 3^ cups of 
flour, and add the sugar and half the cream ; stir it well; then add 
the saleratus, the rest of the cream, the spice, and flour enough to 
make it the consistency of cup cake, and last the fruit. Bake rather 
slowly. All cake containing molasses is more liable to burn than 
that which has none. 

FRUIT CAKE. Mrs. .Everett. 

One pound of butter beaten to a cream, one pound fine sugar 
added by degrees and well beaten. Ten well-beaten eggs added 
gradually. Beat till light ; then add one pound sifted flour, three 
pounds well-dried currants, three pounds stoned raisins, two ounces 
citron, grated rind of a lemon, extract of almond or lemon if pre- 
ferred, one ounce cloves, two ounces cinnamon, one nutmeg. 

OaUand Transfer Co. ! 



42 CAKE. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. Mrs. Chickering. 

Yolks of eleven eggs, one cup of butter, one cup of milk; two cups 
of sugar, three cups of flour, one teaspoon of cream tartar, half 
teaspoon of soda. 

VANILLA CAKE. Mrs. Brewer. 

One-half cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, one and one- 
half cups flour, one-half cup corn starch, one-half cup sweet milk, 
three eggs, two teaspoons yeast powder, one teaspoon vanilla; stir 
the corn starch with the butter and sugar, and then add the milk, 
flour, etc., the whites of eggs beaten to a froth last. This makes 
nice gold and silver cake, by using the whites and yolks separately 
of six eggs. The other proportions remain the same. 

POOR MAN'S CAKE. Mrs. M. S. Root. 

Two and one-half cups of flour, three eggs, two cups of sugar, one 
cup of milk, four tablespoons of melted butter, one teaspoon of 
soda, two of cream tartar. 

RIBBON CAKE. Mrs. Niswander. 

Five eggs, reserving two whites for icing, one and one-half com- 
mon-sized teacup sugar, three-fourths cup butter, not pressed down 
tightly, one-half cup cold water, three teaspoons baking powder 
sifted into two cups flour, slightly heaped. Divide the batter, which 
should be thin, as nearly equal as possible, add to one-half the 
mixture a teaspoon each of allspice and cinnamon, one-half nutmeg, 
and one cup currants. Bake in four layers, two of each color, and 
lay alternately, with icing between. 

MARBLE CAKE. Mrs. Richardson. 

White part The whites of four eggs, one cup of powdered white 
sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup sweet milk, one-half tea- 
sponful soda, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one and one-half cups 
flour. 

Black part The yolks of the four eggs, one cup brown sugar, 
one-half cup molasses, one-half cup sour milk, one-half cup butter, 

MnmitQin TPP Pn j Office and Depot, 515 Fourth St, f Oakland. Ice delivered to 
IbU bU , \ all parts of Oakland and Brooklyn. S, D, Smith, Manager. 



CAKE. 43 

one teaspoonful soda, one and one-half cups flour. Spices to suit 
the taste. Put first into the pan a layer of white and then a layer 
of black. Much improved by a thick layer of icing. 

COFFEE CAKE. California Recipe Book. 

One and a half cups of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, one 
cup of butter, one and a half cups of strong coffee ; one teaspoon 
of soda, two eggs, one cup of raisins and one of currants ; spice 
as you like; flour to make as stiff as cup cake. Nice. 

DRIED APPLE CAKE. Mrs. Brett. 

Three cups of dried apples soaked over night. Chop fine and 
cook with two cups of sugar one-half an hour, then cool ; then add 
this to one cup of butter, one cup of brown sugar, three eggs, four 
cups of flour, all kinds of spice, salt two level teaspoons of soda, two 
level teaspoons cream of tartar, one cup of raisins and one quarter 
pound of citron. 

RAISED OR BREAD CAKE. Mrs. Agard. 

Two cups light dough, one cup butter, two cups sugar, three eggs, 
one large cup raisins, one-half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cinna- 
mon, nutmeg. Beat the eggs very light, and add after working in 
the butter, sugar, soda and spices. Stir in the fruit and more flour 
if necessary. Bake at once. 

'SPONGE CAKE. Mrs. . s. Cole. 

One pound sugar, nine eggs beaten three-fourths of an hour, three- 
fourths pound flour, one glass rosewater, juice and peel of one 
lemon; peel first. 

SPONGE CAKE. Mrs. Knowles. 

Four eggs, one cup sugar, four tablespoonfuls water, one cup flour, 
one teaspoonful lemon, one teaspoonful yeast powder. Beat yolks 
and sugar to a cream, add water, then flour and yeast powder, beat ; 
add whites already beaten to stiff froth, lemon. Bake twenty 
minutes. 

m||p ffpoyplpro \ Has issued 846 ^ 2 Accident Foloies, and paid 84,761 



44 CAKE. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. Mrs. Buck. 

One and one-half tumbler sugar" (pulverized), one tumbler flour, 
one-half teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful cream tartar, whites of 
ten eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Sift sugar, flour, salt and cream 
tartar five times through a flour sieve. Add gradually to the eggs, 
beating lightly, flavor to taste. Bake in a very slow oven forty min- 
utes ; first twenty must not brown. 

BERWICK. Mrs. Brewer. 

Beat six eggs, yolks and whites together two minutes ; add three 
cups sugar, and beat five minutes ; two cups flour, and beat two 
minutes ; one cup cold water, and beat one minute, the grated rind, 
and half the juice of a lemon ; a little salt and two more oups flour, 
with two heaping teaspoons yeast powder, and beat another minute. 
Observe the time exactly, and bake in cup cake pans. 

SNOW CAKE. Mrs. Gardner. 

VERY NICE WITH ICE CREAM. 

Beat to a cream half cup of butter and two cups of powdered 
sugar ; add one cup of sweet milk and whites of four eggs, whisked 
to a froth; sift two cups and a half of flour with a heaping teaspoon 
of cream tartar ; add this alternately with the whites of eggs. Dis- 
solve half a teaspoon of soda in a little boiling water, and stir in the 
last thing. Flavor with almond water. Bake in a moderate oven 
about three quarters of an hour. 



ANGEL CAKE. Mrs. Sell. 

Three gills fine granulated sugar sifted three times, two gills flour 
sifted three times, add one teaspoon cream tartar and sift three times 
again; whites of eleven eggs beaten very lightly; add altogether 
lightly ; one teaspoon almond extract. Bake in slow oven forty 
minutes. The pan in which it is baked must not be buttered, and 
should have three standards at the rim, and should be turned bottom 
upward as soon as removed from the oven. It will steam while 
cooling and come out readily. 

Wm tf Enwpll i Notary Public and Conveyancer, 458 Ninth Street, residence 
WUL L, KUWC1I, j 410 Thirteenth St., First House East of Broadway, Oakland. 



CAKE. 45 

SILVER CAKE. Mrs. M. S. Root. 

The whites of four eggs, one cup sugar, one-half cup of milk, two 
cups of flour, one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of yeast 
powder. 

GOLD CAKE. Miss Carrie Root. 

The yolks of four eggs, one-half cup sugar, one large cup flour, 
not quite one-half cup milk, one tablespoonful butter, one teaspoon- 
ful yeast powder. 

COMPANY CAKE. Mrs. Everett: 

Sift two teaspoons yeast powder into three cups sifted flour; beat 
four eggs, add two cups fine sugar ; now stir gradually into the eggs 
and sugar a half cup of cold water ; next add lightly the prepared 
flour; last stir in one-half cup of melted butter. (Melt it over the 
teakettle, but do not allow it to get hot.) Put half the dough in 
a baking pan ; then to the remainder add one-half teaspoonful each 
of cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg, and fill a second pan. Mind the 
rules for cake baking, and you will have two kinds of light and pal- 
atable cake. Try it. Frost it with the new frosting also quickly 
made. 

BOILED ICING. 

Two cups sugar, water enough to keep from burning ; put on the 
stove to cook. When the sugar is melted and while hot, add the 
beaten whites of four eggs, spread on the cake while hot. 

THE NEW FROSTING. Mrs. Buck. 

Take a teaspoonful of gelatine ; cover with hot water and set it in 
a pan of hot water upon the stove until dissolved ; let it cool and 
then stir in a cupful of powdered sugar. Flavor with almond. 

FILLING FOR LAYER CAKE. Mrs. Gardner. 

Take one cup of sugar and a little water bciled together until it is 
brittle when dropped in cold water. Remove from the stove and 
stir quickly into it the well-beaten white of one egg. Add to this 
a cup of chopped hickorynut meat. Place between layers and over 
the top. 

1? A BWH i Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Wood and Coal, 410 and 412 
t, A, DrOWll, Ninth Street. 



46 CAKE. 

NUT CAKE. Miss Adelaide Elliott 
Make the cake the same as for jelly roll. 

FILLING. 

Three cups walnuts beaten fine, teaspoon of salt added, whites of 
five eggs whipped stiff, small cup of sugar. Mix well. Use as jelly. 
Yolks of eggs used in the cake. 

ENGLISH WALNUT CAKE. Mrs. . E. Cole. 

Make a nice cup cake and bake in jelly tins, three layers, half an 
inch thick. Two pounds English walnuts. Crack the nuts carefully, 
taking care to remove all bits of shell Select the whole half meats 
that have the whitest skin for the top. Chop or break the remainder 
of the meats fine. Put a thin frosting between each byer of cake, 
and sprinkle thick with chopped meats. Make your frosting thicker 
for the top, and lay on your large pieces of walnut meat, half 'bury- 
ing it in the frosting. You can blanch your meats by pouring over 
them boiling water, but it somewhat destroys the rich flavor of the 
nuts. 

CAKE WITH ALMOND FILLING. Mrs. Niswander. 

Four eggs, three cups flour, two cups sugar, one cup milk, three- 
fourths cup butter, two teaspoons cream tartar, one teaspoon soda ; 
beat eggs together, cream the butter and sugar, sift cream tartar into 
flour, dissolve soda in milk. Bake in eight thin layers. 

FILLING. 

Blanch and chop finely one pound almonds, mix with one teacup 
sugar, beaten yolks of two eggs, and one-half pint of thick sour 
cream. Lastly add whites, beaten to a thick froth, with vanilla to 
taste. 

LEMON CAKE. Mrs. Craig. 

Make the filling first as follows : place the grated rind and juice 
of one large lemon in a tin cup with one teacup of white sugar. Set 
in a dish of boiling water on the fire, stirring occasionally until the 
sugar is dissolved. Then add the beaten yolk of one egg with a 
piece of butter the size of an egg, and stir until it thickens. Have 
ready the white of the egg beaten to a froth to be added last, and 
set the mixture aside to cool. 



Get Yonr Stamping; and Embroidery J 



" 6 " 6 



CAKE. 47 

Make a cake of one cup of sugar, two tablespoons melted butter, 
three eggs, four tablespoons milk, a little salt, one and a half cups of 
flour, and two teaspoons yeast powder. This will make four sheets 
baked in jelly cake tins. 

AMBROSIA JELLY FOR CAKE. Mrs. M. S. Root. 

One egg, one cup of sugar, three large apples grated, and one 
lemon (without the skin). Let it boil and spread between cake. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. Miss Lizzie Myrick. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, three and one-half cups of 
flour, five eggs, leaving out the whites of two ; half cup of milk, half 
cup of water, two teaspoonfuls of yeast powder. Bake in one sheet 
or in layers. 

Frosting. Whites of two eggs, one and one-half cups of pow- 
dered sugar, six tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, two teaspoonfuls 
of vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. Mrs. Craig. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, five eggs, leaving out two whites, 
one small cup milk, three cups of flour, one teaspoon soda, two tea- 
spoons cream tartar. Bake in two long pans. For the frosting beat 
the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, one and one-half cups of 
sugar, two teaspoons of grated chocolate. The cake must be cold 
before the frosting is put on. 

CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS. Mrs. Morse. 

Four eggs, the weight of the eggs in sugar, half their weight in 
flour, one-fourth teaspoonful soda, one-half teaspoonful cream tartar; 
bake in little tins. 

CHOCOLATE ICING FOR ECLAIRS. 

One-fourth cake chocolate, one-half cup sweet milk, one table- 
spoonful corn-starch, one teaspoonful vanilla. Boil until thick, then 
sweeten with powdered sugar, taking care to make it sweet enough. 

COCOANUT CAKE. Miss Cara M. Fisher. 
Six eggs, reserve the whites of four for frosting ; beat whites and 

Mice F Q Rnpll 5 Decorative Art Booms. Fancy Work of all Einds. 
Mlbb L, 0, BUOllj \ 11I8 Washington Street, Oakland. 



48 CAKE. 

yolks separately, three cups of sugar, small half cup of thick cream, 
one cup milk, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream tartar, four 
cups of flour, bake in jelly-cake tins. 

Filling. Two and one-half cups sugar ; add a little water and 
boil until on dipping into it a broom wisp, bent into a loop by hold- 
ing the ends between the thumb and fingers, a web is formed, then 
remove from the fire ; add the four beaten whites, beat till cold ; pile 
the cakes with a layer of frosting with desiccated cocoanut sprinkled 
on it between them and over the whole. 

If the above quantity of cake proves more than is needed for the 
loaf of cocoanut cake, add some flavoring extract, and make a plain 
loaf or make jelly cake with it. 

LEMON CAKE. Mrs. Israel Knox. 

Small. half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, two eggs, half cup of 
sweet milk, two and- a half cups of flour, one and a half teaspoons 
yeast powder, bake in jelly tins, three layers. 

Filling Three-quarters of a cup of cold water, two heaping tea- 
spoons corn starch, juice and rind of one lemon, three-quarters cup 
of sugar; boil all until clear, then add the well-beaten whites of two 
eggs into the hot mixture. 

ORANGE CAKE. Mrs. Agard. 

One and one-half cups of sugar," two cups of flour, one-half cup 
of water, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, yolks of 
five eggs, whites of three, salt, grated rind and juice of one orange. 
Bake in layers and spread each with a frosting made with the whi.es 
of two eggs, grated rind and juice of one orange, and sugar. 

JELLY CAKE. Mrs. Buck. 

One cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, two cups of flour, one egg, 
two tablespoonfuls melted butter, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar, one 
teaspoonful soda. Beat the butter and sugar with two tablespoonfuls 
milk, add the egg well beaten, white and yolk separately, two yolks 
will do, dissolve the soda in milk, add gradually, stirring to a cream, 
sift cream tartar with flour. Flavor to taste : bake in a very quick 
oven, in papered tins. 



Horace Davis' Flour at Fish & Go's, Eighth and Market, 



CAKE. 49 

JELLY ROLL. Mrs. Collins. 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour, one heaping teaspoon 
yeast powder, six or eight teaspoons water, pinch of salt; bake in 
dripping-pan, lay on towel and roll. 

JELLY FRUIT CAKE Mrs. Carpenter. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, three eggs, three cups flour, 
two-thirds cup butter, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon 
soda. Take two pans, and put one-half of the above mixture for 
the plain cake, anc into the other half put one tablespoon of molas- 
ses, one large cup chopped raisins, one-fourth pound sliced citron, 
one teaspoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon alls-ice, one-half nutmeg, 
one-fourth pound flour ; bake each in two thin cakes, alternating the 
light with the dark, spreading jelly between. 

HARLEM JUMBLES. Mrs. Dart. 

Three-quarters of a pound of butter, one pound of white sugar, 
one pound and a half of flour, three eggs. 

NAHANT BUNS. Miss Perkins. 

Three -cups of sweet milk, one cup each of yeast and sugar, flour 
enough for a stiff batter. Raise over night ; in the morning add one 
cup each of sugar and buttter, une grated nutmeg, one teaspoonful 
of soda, enough flour to make it stiff like bread. Ltt it rise, then 
cut it like biscuits, and rise again. Bake in a hot oven. 

PANCAKES. Mrs. Gardner. 

One cup of white sugar, two or three eggs, one-half pint of sweet 
milk, tablespoon of melted butter or lard, a little nutmeg and salt, 
one teaspoon of cream tartar, one-half teaspoon of soda ; make the 
batter rather stiff, and drop from a spoon into hot lard and fry. 

DOUGHNUTS. Mrs. Everett. 

Four cuj s of flour, one cup sifted sugar (brown), one cup sour 
milk, two eggs, one-half teaspoonful soda, one teaspoon each of cin- 
namon, clove and salt, and a piece of butter as large as an egg. 



j Ladies ' and Gentlemen's Ice Cream and Coffee Saloon, 
\ 416 Twelfth Street. Wm, J. F Laage, Prop, 



50 CAKE. 

Sift the soda, salt, and spice into the flour. Beat the eggs, stir in 
the sifted sugar, then add the butter (melted), and next the sour 
milk. Now add the prepared flour, (not by degrees), stir, and roll 
out. 

DOUGHNUTS. Mrs. Dyer. 

Three eggs, two cups sugar,' one cup milk, one teaspoon butter, 
two teaspoons yeast powder, a little salt, spice to taste, and enough 
flour to roll out. 

(If the sugar is dissolved in warm milk, doughnuts will not absorb 
the fat in which they are cooked.) 

CRULLERS. Mrs. Doe. 

One coffee cup of sugar, one coffee cup of cream, one egg, one 
nutmeg, two dessert spoonfuls of yeast powder, flour enough to roll, 
and cut not quite a fourth of an inch thick. 

CRULLERS. Mrs. Agard. 

One cup sugar, butter the size of a Hickorynut, three eggs, one 
cup sweet milk, nutmeg, flour in which is sifted two heaping tea- 
spoons baking powder. 

CARAWAY COOKIES. Mrs. Craig. 

One cup sugar, three eggs, one cup butter, one teaspoon caraway 
seed, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, flour enough to roll out well. 

(In all recipes which call for molasses, remember that New 
Orleans molasses is far preferable to syrup.) 

GINGER CRACKERS. Mrs. Mary A. Knox. 

One cup molasses, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half 
cup hot water, one teaspoonful cream tartar or yeast powder, one- 
half teaspoonful soda, one tablespoonful ginger; make very stiff with 
flour, and roll thin. 

GINGER BREAD. Mrs. Agard. 

One cup molasses, one-half cup butter, one teaspoon cream tartar 
in one cup cold water, two teaspoons soda, flour sufficient to make 
as thick as ordinary cake ; spice with ginger or clove. 

Gelatine anil Ginger at Kelsey & Flint's. 



CAKE. 51 

OLD-FASHIONED SUGAR GINGER BREAD. 
Mrs. Agard. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one cup butter, two eggs, two tea- 
spoons ginger, one teaspoon soda dissolved in a little hot water, 
flour. Knead stiff, roll thin, bake quickly. 

MOLASSES GINGER BREAD. Mrs. R. E. Cole. 

Two cups of best New Orleans molasses, one cup of thick sour 
cream, one teaspoonful soda, one egg, butter size of small egg. Rub 
your soda free from lumps and stir dry into your molasses, soften 
your butter so that it will easily mix in, add that with your well- 
beaten egg, also one-half teaspoon of allspice, one-half teaspoon 
cinnamon, one-fourth teaspoon of cloves, pinch of salt, enough flour 
to make as stiff as cup cake; the quantity of flour depends somewhat 
on the thickness of the cream. Bake in slow oven. 

GINGER CAKE. Miss Ferry. 

One cup of molasses and one of sugar; one-half cup of butter, 
one egg, one teaspoon of soda, one cup of hot water, one teaspoon 
of cinnamon, one of ginger, and a very little salt. 

ROCHESTER MOLASSES COOKIES. Mrs. Brewer. 

Three cups New Orleans molasses and two even tablespoonsful soda, 
stirred to a froth. Add three well beaten eggs, one pup lard, on9 
teaspoon each of salt, ginger and cinnamon; stir thoroughly and mix 
very stiff with flour. Sift sugat'over them after they are rolled, and 
bake in a quick oven. 

CALOU & SCHBV ANTON, 



1916 San Pablo Avenue, Oakland, 



The renovating of fine CLOTHS, BLANKETS, CURTAINS, 
FLANNELS and LACES a specialty. 

No Machines Used. 



LIGHT DESSERTS. 

AMBROSIA. J/rr. Israel Knox. 

DELICIOUS. 

Pare and cut in small pieces twelve oranges, pare and slice from 
two to six bananas, grate two cocoanuts ; place first your oranges in 
a glass dish; sugar to taste; then put on the bananas and sugar, then 
the grated cocoanut and another sprinkle of sugar, and you have a 
delicious, as well as ornamental dessert. Your own taste will dictate 
the amount of sugar needed. Some leave out the bananas entirely. 



CHOCOLATE BAVARIAN CREAM. Mrs. C. A. Grow. 

One pint of cream, one cupful of milk, one-half cup of sugar, one 
ounce of chocolate, half a package of gelatine ; soak the gelatine in 
half of the milk, and whip the cream to stiff froth; scrape the choco- 
late and add two tablespoonfuls of sugar to it; put over the fire with 
one tablespoonful of hot water, stir until smooth and gla sy ; have 
the remaining half cup of milk boiling, stir the chocolate into it and 
add the gelatine ; strain into a tin basin and add sugar ; set in a pan 
of ice-water, and beat the mixture until it begins to thicken, then adc 
the whipped cream, and when well mixed turn into a mold. Serve 
when hard with whipped cream. 
/ 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. Mrs. Israel Knox. 

One quart cream, whites of eight eggs; place the cream on ice foi 
two or three hours; beat it well; beat eggs to a stiff froth; mi> 
together, sweeten to taste, and flavor with vanilla. 

Take one-half box Cox's gelatine, pour on a little cold water, anc 
let it stand an hour ; then pour on boiling water enough to dissolve 
and stir it into the cream. When about half set pour into the mold 
which must be lined with sponge cake. 

SHERBET. Mrs. Flint. 

Rub rind of three lemons into eight ounces of sugar, one pint o 
cold water, the juice of three lemons and of two sweet oranges; twc 



Buy your Fisli of Edwards Bros. 468 Eleventh St. 



LIGHT DESSERTS. 53 

or three times this quantity may be used, and freeze the same as ice- 
cream . 

ISINGLASS BLANC MANGE. 

Two ounces of isinglass, three pints of milk, half a pound of 
sugar, lemon ; boil five minutes. 

SPANISH CREAM. Mrs. S. Woods. 

Soak one-half box of gelatine in enough cold water to cover, one 
hour; one pint of milk, let it come to a scald; yolks of four eggs, 
one small cup of sugar. Turn the gelatine into the milk and stir 
just enough to dissolve ; pour some of the hot milk into eggs and 
sugar; then put all together and stir rapidly until it begins to thicken 
like custard; add whites well beaten, after removing from the lire ; 
flavor and pour gently into mold. Serve with whipped cream or 
custard. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. Mrs. Agard. 

One quart milk, three tablespoons tapioca, three eggs, one-half 
cup sugar, flavoring. Soak the tapioca over night in cold water; in 
the morning heat the milk and stir in the tapioca; when boiling, add 
yolks of eggs and sugar ; when as thick as cream remove from the 
fire ; when cool, flavor and spread with the whites of eggs whipped 
and sweetened. 

PINK CREAM. Mrs. E. S. Cole. 

Whip one pint of thick sweet cream with one cupfull of currant 
jelly, sweeten and serve in jelly glasses. Currant, raspberry, or 
strawberry juice may be used in place of jelly. 

BANANAS AND CREAM. Mrs. Agard. 

Peel and slice the fruit, and set on ice for a few hours ; whip and 
sweeten the cream and spread over, or serve with the fruit, or sprinkle 
sugar over the fruit, and pour around it the cream unwhipped. 

ORANGES FOR LUNCH. 

Soak half a box of gelatine in a cup of cold water, when soft, add 
two teacups of boiling water, when entirely dissolved add one teacup 

The wife and daughter of a prominent citizen assures us they feel 
that they cannot do without Kalliodont. 



54 LIGHT DESSERTS. 

of sugar, the juice of six oranges and also of two lemons; strain 
this; have ready oranges prepared by cutting the part next to the 
stem, about one-third from the top of the orange ; carefully remove 
the inside which may be used in making the jelly, fill with the 
jelly; replace the upper part and tie with a narrow ribbon. 

STRAWBERRY ICE. Mrs. Agard. 

Four lemons, juice only, four cups sugar, four cups water, two 
pounds of strawberries, and one cup of sugar. Make a lemonade 
of the lemon juice, sugar and water; stand on ice. Mix the berries 
with one cup of sugar, and when the juice is somewhat extracted, 
mash the fruit smooth; add more sugar if desired. When ready to 
freeze, stir the strawberry into the lemonade and freeze as cream. 

PEACH CUSTARD. Mrs. Abernethy. 

One can of peaches, three eggs, three cups milk, one-half cup 
sugar, two tablespoons corn starch, butter size of a walnut. Scald 
the milk, stir in com starch, wet in coid milk, and cook till thick ; 
take off the fire, beat in the sugar, butter and beaten yolks of the 
eggs, put in the white of one, whisk thoroughly. Drain the syrup 
from peaches, and cover the bottom of baking dish with them, and 
pour the mixture over. Bake in quick oven from ten to fifteen 
minutes, or till custard is set ; then spread with a meringue of the 
whipped whites flavored with peach juice; brown on top; to be eaten 
cold. 

OUR FAVORITE APPLE MERINGUE. 

Mrs. Van Blarcom. 

Half fill your dish with a rich apple sauce flavored with the rind 
of a lemon ; make a boiled custard with the yolks of eggs only, and 
pour it over the apples. Make with the whites of the eggs, a merin- 
gue and pile it prettily over the custard. If your dish will bear the 
heat, set in the oven to brown a little. If in a glass dish and you 
have no "salamander," do as we do ours brown with the fire shovel 
made hot. 

ICE CREAM. Mrs. Israel Knox. 

Two quarts milk, half box Cox's gelatine soaked in a little cold 
milk, one quart of cream, one pint of sugar; flavoring to taste. Pour 
the boiling milk on the soaked gelatine, add the sugar ; when this 

All Kills of Fancy fork at 1161 Broadway. 



LIGHT DESSERTS. 55 

mixture is thoroughly cold, add the cream and flavoring and freeze. 
This makes one gallon when frozen. 

ICE CREAM. Mrs. Buck. 

To one quart of milk add, while cold, one-half teaspoon of Sea 
Moss Farina, bring to a boil, stirring often ; let it cook slowly thirty 
minutes. Set aside to cool. When cold whip one pint of sweet 
cream, and whisk all briskly for two or three minutes ; sweeten and 
flavor to taste. Less cream will do. 

ICE CREAM. Mrs. Niswander. 

One quart milk, three eggs, one pint cream, one coffee cup white 
sugar, one tablespoon vanilla, one tablespoon corn starch, slightly 
heaped; hea't milk to boiling point; stir in sugar and corn starch ; 
dissolve in a little cold milk; cook ten minutes; remove from stove, 
and add the well beaten eggs. Set away to cool. When ready to 
freeze, add the cream and vanilla. This makes three quarts when 
frozen, 

TRIFLE. Mrs. Luke Doe. 

A layer of sponge cake in a dish. Make a soft custard, and flavor 
with vanilla. Blanch beforehand a cup of almonds, chop fine and 
soak them in a teaspoon of vanilla. 

Directions for Mixing. Pour the custard over the layer of cake, 
then sprinkle over it the nuts ; then over that a layer of raspberry 
jam, or any other kind you may prefer ; finally cover with whipped 
cream. 

MACAROON PUDDING. Mrs. Bartlett. 

Take macaroon cakes, put them in a deep glass dish, pour over 
them warm soft custard. Beat the whites of eggs with or without 
currant jelly ; take it up with a spoon and dot the cakes as they rise 
to the top closely with it. This is a very pretty dish for lunch. 

COCOANUT AND CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE. 

Mrs. Van Blarconi. 

One quart milk, four tablespoonfuls corn starch, let these b~6il 
together for at least fifteen minutes; when boiled beat in the whipped 
whites of two eggs. Divide the blanc mange. Into half of it stir the 
grated meat of a cocoanut. Into the other half grate (while still hot) 
two squares of chocolate. Pour one upon the other as in marble cake. 



Tie Travelers Ins, Co, of Hartford, Conn. 0ffioe ' * W7 st " 






56 LIGHT DESSERTS. 

A DELICIOUS DESSERT. Mrs. Van Blarcom. 

Bake a sponge cake in a shallow tin, so that the cake will be 
about two inches thick when done. Over this pour some boiled 
custard. Just before serving slice peaches and put a layer over the 
cake ; then beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, with very 
little sugar, and put over the top. Use only the yolks of the eggs 
for your custard. If the peaches are out of season oranges may be 
used. 

SWEET CREAM. Mrs. G. IV. Hume. 

One quart of milk, four eggs, one box gelatine, one cup of 
sugar, a half pound of crystalized fruit. Soak gelatine three hours 
in one cup of water, then scald milk, sugar and gelatine together, 
divide in equal parts, into one put the beaten yolks and 'strain, when 
cool stir into this part one-half the beaten whites slowly, into the 
other half beat the remaining whites of eggs; line a form with the 
' crystalized fruit, pour in alternately the cream ; flavor with lemon 
and vanilla. To be made the day before, and to be eaten with 
custard. 



Oakland Home Insurance Company, 



OF OAKLAND, -JSSE & liP 1 CALIFORNIA. 




Cash Capital, - $200,000,00 

Transacts a general Fire Insurance Business. 
Agencies in all the principal localities on the Pacific Coast. 



The only Fire Insurance Company incorporated on the Pacific Coast outside 
of San Francisco, and whose assets are not liable to sweeping conflagrations. 



Head Office, 469 Ninth Street, Oakland, Cal. 

JOHN P. JONES, President WM. F. BLOOD, Secretary. 

Jos. S. EMERY, Vice-President. L. B. EDWARDS, Gen* 1 Agent. 



R DELICACY OF FLAVOR AND GREAT STRENGTH 

MERTEN MOFFITT & CO.'S 

CIICEITR1TED FLIfOlllfi EITIKTS 

Are unrivaled. They are used and endorsed by nearly all the leading 
hotels on the Pacific Coast, and their popularity is attested by the fact 
that their sale is greater than that OF ALL OTHER Flavoring Extracts 
on the Pacific Coast combined. 



MERTEN MOFFITT & CO.'S 

SUPERIOR 

CELERY SALT 

Is one of the most agreeable condiments that can be used on the 
table. It possesses in a convenient and concentrated form the flavor 
of the Celery Plant, and is a delicious addition to Soups, Gravies, 
Stews, Salads, Cheese, etc., etc. 



E v 



ERY WELL ORDERED HOUSE SHOULD KEEP 

MERTEN MOFFITT & CO.'S 



FURNITURE REVIVER. 

It both cleans and polishes the furniture at one operation with very 
little labor, and the most inexperienced person can use it. It DRIES 
QUICKLY and leaves no greasy or sticky surface. The largest furniture 
dealers and piano and sewing machine establishments use it. TRY 
IT ! ! Pint Bottles at 50 Cents per bottle.' 

MERTEN MOFFITT & GO'S 

NON-POISONOUS 

SILVERING SOLUTION 

Deposits a coat of pure silver on plated ware, saving the wear on the 
original plating. It is an excellent thing to clean and renew Harness. 
Mountings, Door Plates, Stair Roads, Wash Stand Fittings, etc., and 
for cleaning Solid Silver it has no equal. It is perfectly harmless to 
the hands and will not scratch the finest Plate. Ask VOUr Grocer 

for it!! 



C. R. HANSEN & CO. 



wptogmeni 



1 10 Geary and 624 Clay Streets, 



SAN FRANCISCO, CAL. 



Furnish on Short Notice and Free of Charge 



Good Clerks, 

Stewards. 

Bakers, 

Waiters, 

Porters, 

Bell-Boys, 

Dishwashers, 

Kitchen Help; 



Also 

Housekeepers, 
Cooks, 
Laundresses, 
Waitresses. 
Chambermaids, 
Nurses and Girls for all 

kinds of Housework, of 

all Nationalities. 



ALSO, 



Experienced Farm Foremen, 

Farm Hands, 

Teamsters, 

Blacksmiths, 

Hay Pressers, 

Harvest Hands, 

Milkers, 

Wood Choppers, 

Butter or Cheese Makers, 

Engineers, 

Carpenters, 

Painters, 



Coopers, 
Wheelwrights, 
Foremen, 
Loggers, 
Timber-Fallers, 
Saw- Mill Crews, 
Miners, 

Brickmoulders and Setters, 
Quarry men, 
Railroad Laborers and 
Laborers for all kinds of work in 
any number. 



TELEPHONE No. 495. 



110 Geary Street,! TBW VStt }624 Clay St., S. F. 



PASTRY AND PUDDINGS. 

Pastry should be handled with the lightest of fingers. Use the 
knife with a quick stroke that the paste be not dragged, and in cov- 
ering a pie, on no account pound or press the border together 
roughly. 

The proportion commonly used is four cups of flour to one and a 
half cups of shortening (half lard, half butter). About a coffee 
cup of water will give this the right consistency (ice-water is best). 
This makes three pies. 

Reserve one-half or more of the butter ; chop the remainder of 
the shortening into the flour with a knife, add the water, mixing 
lightly and quickly; flour the board and rolling-pin, roll out, hand- 
ling lightly ; put the reserved butter in little pieces over the paste, 
sprinkle with flour, fold up the paste, and roll again. One light 
rolling and spreading, with proper handling, makes better and lighter 
crust than many "turns." 

Be particular about the heat of the oven! If not hot enough, the 
paste will become soggy and dull; if too hot, it will become set and 
burn before it is done. 

PUFF PASTE. Mrs. B. 

One quart flour, three-quarters cup butter, yolk of one egg ; chop 
half the butter into the flour, stir the beaten egg into half a cup of 
ice water; mix, roll out thin, spread with one-third of the remaining 
butter, fold, roll again, and so on till the remaining butter is used 
up. Set in a cold place ten or fifteen minutes before using. Wet 
with beaten egg, while hot. 

LEMOM PIE. Mrs. D. W. C. Gaskill 

One grated lemon, one cupful of boiling water, a heaping table- 
spoonfnl of corn starch, one cupful of sugar, butter size of an egg, 
two eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately ; add the sugar and 
butter while boiling; remove from the stove, and add the eggs and 
lemon. When baked add the whites of the eggs with a little sugar ; 
and return to the oven to brown. 

Ottlani Transfer Co. 



60 PASTRY AND PUDDINGS. 

LEMON PIE. Mrs. Craig. 

The juice and yellow rind of one lomon, one cup sugar, one cnp 
of milk or cream, the yolks of three eggs, one tablespoonful of corn 
starch, and a pinch of salt ; line a plate and bake the mixture, then 
beat the whites to a stiff froth, stir in lightly a spoonful of powdered 
sugar ; spread on the pie and brown lightly. 

LEMON PIE. Mrs. C. C. Wheeler. 

One lemon, one egg, one cup sugar, two apples grated, and one 
teaspoonful of corn starch ; bake with one crust; make a meringue for 
the top of the white of one egg and a teaspoonful of sugar; then brown. 

LEMON TARTS. Mrs. Carpenter. 

One lemon, juice squeezed and rind g/ated, three eggs, one teacup 
sugar, two tablespoons melted butter; mix well and bake in small 
tins with good pastry. 

RAISIN PIE. Mrs. W. 

Boil one pound chopped raisins covered with water one hour ; let 
them cool, then add one chopped lemon, one cup of sugar, two 
tablespoons corn starch ; add lemon juice last ; bake between two 
crusts ; this quantity will make three pies. 

APPLE PIE Mrs. Collins. 

Cut in quarters nice tart apples, or if your apples are not tart use 
half a lime with them ; line the plate with your crust, and before 
filling lay two tablespoons brown sugar on the bottom, with a light 
sprinkle of flour over it. Lay on your apples in rows around the 
plate, fitting them together smoothly ; add a piece of butter the size 
of a walnut, a scatter of cinnamon and nutmeg, and a tablespoonful 
of water ; cover with crust and bake. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Three eggs to a pint of milk, two tablespoons sugar, a little salt. 
Beat yolks and whites separately, add milk, then the sugar ; line a 
plate, fill and bake immediately. 

KB n WP! 1 \ Notary Public and Conveyancer, 458 Ninth Street, residence 
, nil H DUj j 410 Thirteenth St., First House East of Broadway, Oakland. 



PASTRY AND PUDDINGS. 61 

TRANSPARENT TARTS. Mrs. Collins. 

Line small oval fluted cake tins with paste, and put in filling made 
as follows : 

Four eggs, two cups sugar, three-fourths cup of butter; beat 
together as for cake. Add the juice of two oranges, one teaspoon 
each of lemon and vanilla. Bake about ten minutes. 

COCOANUT TARTS. Mrs. E. S. Cole. 

Take one and one-half cups of sugar, a piece of butter the size of 
an egg, and braid them together ; then four eggs and half a cup of 
sugar beaten to a froth ; mix all together with a cup and a half of 
milk, then add six cups of grated cocoanut. Put into scalloped tins 
lined with a rich paste. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE. Miss Ella Glenn. 

One pint of flour, a piece of butter the size of an egg, and one 
and a half teaspoons of yeast powder ; mix with milk as soft as you 
can knead, handle lightly, place in two round pans, bake quickly ; 
split, butter, and fill plentifully with berries and sugar, cover with the 
other crust, put in the oven for a few minutes; serve. A little thick 
cream poured over the berries is an improvement. 

SQUASH PIES. Mrs. Brewer. 

One pint squash, one quart milk, one cup sugar, three eggs, one 
tablespoonful butter, a little salt, a teaspoon of lemon extract. Strain 
the squash through a sieve, boil the milk with the salt and butter in it ; 
mix the .squash, sugar, and flavor, and pour on gradually the boiling 
milk, adding last the eggs well beaten, yolks and whites together. 
Have the pastry ready in the tins, and bake immediately in a quick 
oven. If the squash is not dry add to it three small crackers, rolled 
very fine. 

MINCE PIES. Mrs. J. H. Brewer. 

Chop the meat, suet and apples separately, and measure the ingre- 
dients thus : three bowls of meat, three of apples, one of suet, one 
of citron cut small, two of raisins, two of currants, four of sugar, one 
of molasses, two of boiled cider, and one of some kind of syrup 

PrpifontinnonTr J Ladies' and Gentlemen's Ice Cream and Coffee Saloon, 
UyfflCUUUplJf, 1 416 Twejftb Street. Win. J. F Laage, Prop, 



62 PASTRY. AND PUDDINGS. 

from fruit. (The vinegar left from sweet pickles will take the place 
of cider, and fruit syrup). Add powdered clove, nutmeg, cinnamon, 
and salt to suit the taste. 

CREAM PIE. Mrs. N. B. Carpenter. 

Make the crust; after putting' it on the plate, prick it (so that it 
will not raise up in blisters) and bake it. Put one pint of milk in a 
pan over a kettle of boiling water ; beat well the yolks of two eggs, 
add a tablespoonful of corn starch dissolved in a little cold milk 
(reserved from the pint), one small cup of sugar ; stir this into the 
boiling milk smoothly; when it thickens flavor with vanilla. Pour this 
into the well-baked crust ; beat the whites, add two spoons of sugar, 
spread over the top, place in the oven to brown. 

LEMON PUDDING. Mrs. Brewer. 

One quart of milk, four eggs, one pint bread crumbs, one cup of 
sugar, butter the size of an egg, one lemon ; grate the rind of the 
lemon, beat the yolks of the eggs well, and mix with milk, crumbs, 
and sugar.; put in buttered dish, and lay the butter in little bits on 
top. Bake a light brown; and when cold beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, and add one-half cup sugar, and a little more 
than half the juice of the lemon. Spread over the pudding and 
brown in the oven. 

BREAD PUDDING. Mrs'. Agard. 

One quart hot milk, one pint bread crumbs dry and fine, four eggs, 
two tablespoons melted butter, one-fourth teaspoon soda in hot water, 
nutmeg. Stir the crumbs into the hot milk. Beat yolks of eggs 
very light and add with the butter nutmeg and soda. Last add the 
whipped whites. Bake and eat hot with lemon sauce. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. Mrs. Craig. 

One pound bread crumbs ; one-half pound leaf suet chopped fine ; 
one pound raisins stoned, one pound currants, one-half pound mixed 
preserved citron, lemon and orange thinly sliced ; one-half nutmeg 
grated ; one teaspoon each of cinnamon, clove and salt ; one large 
cup sugar ; one cup flour ; three teaspoons yeast powder, twelve eggs. 

EA BiinTini \ Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Wood and Coal, 410 and 412 
' L ti im ! I Ninth Street. 



PASTRY AND PUDDINGS. (53 

Place the mixture in a tin dish with a perfectly tight cover and set it 
in a large kettle that can also be covered close. Keep plenty of 
boiling water in the kettle, but not enough to boil over the top of the 
pudding-dish. Boil eight hours. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. Mrs. Morse. 

Two cups flour, two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, one nutmeg, 
one teaspoonful salt, four teaspoonfuls baking powder, one-half pound 
currants, one-half pound stoned raisins, chopped fine, one-half pound 
suet chopped fine. Steam four hours. 

Hard sauce One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, four tablespoons 
currant jelly whipped to a cream. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. Mrs. R. E. Cole. 

One cup molasses, one cup sweet milk, two cups suet, two cups 
raisins, two cups currants, one-half pound citron, one-half pound 
candied lemon peel, one-half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cream 
tartar ; salt well ; all kinds of spice, flour enough to make stiff as 
fruit cake. Steam three hours. 

SNOW PUDDING. Mrs. McLean. 

One-half box of gelatine, dissolved in one pint of water; add peel 
of two and juice of one lemon, two and one-half cups of sugar ; 
strain, and when it begins to jelly, beat in thoroughly the whites of 
five eggs, previously well beaten, and put in the mold. With the 
yolks of eggs make a boiled custard and pour around the form just 
before serving. 

CORN STARCH PUDDING. Mrs. Gardner. 

One pint of sweet milk, whites of three eggs, two tablespoons of 
corn starch and a little salt; put the milk in a dish and place in a 
kettle of hot water on the stove, and when it reaches the boiling 
point add the sugar, then the starch, dissolved in a little cold milk, 
and lastly the whites of the eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Beat it, 
and let cook a few minutes. Then pour into a mold. For sauce, 
make a boiled custard as follows : Bring to boiling point one pint of 
milk; add three tablespoons of sugar, then the beaten yolks, thinned 
by adding a little milk, stirring all the time until it thickens, but not 
so long as to curdle. Flavor with vanilla. 

The Travelers ] Is tb9 OBljr ac f c r a mpaa7 ttat has 



64 PASTRY AND PUDDINGS. 

PLAIN SUET PUDDING. Mrs. Agard. 

One cup chopped suet, one cup milk, two cups flour, one-half cup 
molasses, one cup raisins or currants, one small teaspoon soda, salt, 
cinnamon and nutmeg. Steam three hours; serve with sauce. 

LEMON SAUCE FOR SUET PUDDING. 

One-half cup sugar, very small piece of butter, stir to a cream ; 
add one egg well beaten, and the juice of one-half of a lemon. Just 
before serving, add a little boiling water, stirring well. 

OMELETTE PUDDING. Mrs. Abernethy. 

P'our eggs beaten, whites and yolks separately, one cup milk, one 
slice bread, salt. Boil the milk, pour it over the crumbled bread, 
and beat it fine. Add beaten yolks of eggs, salt, and lastly the 
whites beaten stiff. Pour half the mixture in the hot buttered 
spider. When the bottom is brown, put the spider in a hot oven 
until the eggs set, lay slices of peaches sprinkled with sugar on one 
half, and turn the other over them. Eat hot. It does not hurt the 
first one to stand while the second is cooking. It is nice as an 
omelette, or with oysters or tomatoes instead of peaches. 

BATTER PUDDING. Mrs. Green. 

Eight eggs, eight tablespoonful of flour, one quart of milk, bake 
in cups. 

BAKED BATTER PUDDING. Mrs. Knox. 

WITH STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 

Beat six eggs with eight heaping tablespoons of flour until smooth; 
stir this mixture thoroughly into one quart of fresh milk; salt to 
taste; strain into a buttered dish. Bake in a moderately quick oven 
one-half hour or until it rises and breaks open on the top; serve 
immediately. To be eaten with a sauce made of one cup of sugar, 
one-half cup butter beaten to a cream, and one-half cup strawberries 
stirred in. 

FRUIT PUDDING. Miss Carrie Perkins. 

One cup molasses, one cup milk, one teaspoonful saleratus, two 
eggs, three cups flour, one-half cup melted butter, one cup r?.isins, 
one cup currants. Boil two hours. 

Use Kelsey & Flint's Flavoring Eitracts, 



PASTRY AND PUDDINGS. 65 

RICE PUDDING. Mrs. Everett. 

(Best ever made in spite of its being the cheapest.) One quart 
milk, two heaping tablespoonfu s rice, a piece of butter size of a 
walnut, and a little salt. Two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Bake in a 
slow oven two hours ; stir twice during the first hour. Eaten either 
hot or cold, with or without sauce. If you are using your oven this 
pudding can be cooked upon the back of the stove the first hour. 
Flavor with cinnamon. 

CARROT PUDDING. Mrs. M. P. Downing. 

One cup of grated carrots, one cup of grated potatoes, one cup 
of suet, one cup of sugar, one cup of currants, two cups of flour, 
two tablespoonfuls of milk, sweet or sour; use soda if you have sour 
milk; yeast powder if sweet milk; use spices, cinnamon and cloves, 
also nutmeg. Steam in a pudding mold three hours. 

COFFEE PUDDING. Mrs. M. E. Shaw. 

Sufficient coffee to moisten one quart of bread crumbs, one cup of 
brown sugar, one cup each of raisins, currants and citron, three eggs, 
one teaspoonful of soda, season with different spices and steam one 
hour. To be eaten with a good ;:udding sauce. 

SWEET POTATO PUDDING. Mrs. Richards. 

Boil one quart of sweet potatoes very tender, rub them while hot 
through a colander, add six eggs, twelve ounces of powdered sugar, 
ten ounces of butter, nutmeg and lemon. Line the dish with a 
paste ; when baked sprinkle the top of the pudding over with sugar, 
and cover it with bits of citron. 

QUEEN'S PUDDING. Mrs. Bartlett. 

One pint of bread crumbs to one quart of milk, one cup of sugar, 
the yolks of four eggs well beaten, the grated rind of one lemon, 
piece of butter the size of an egg. Bake until done but not watery, 
then whip the whites stiff, and beat in one cup of sugar, in which 
stir the juice of a lemon. Spread the pudding with any kind of 
preserves you prefer or currant jelly, pour the whites of the eggs 
over it, and return to the oven to brown, serve with cold cream. 



Care for Conption, at Fish & Go's, Eighth and Market, 



PASTRY AND PUDDINGS. 

SNOW PUDDING. Mrs. Porter. 

Two tablespoonfuls of gelatine dissolved in a cup of boiling 
water, two cups of sugar, the juice of two lemons, the whites of two 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Mix all together and stir briskly three- 
quarters of an hour ; set away in a glass dish to cool. 

SAUCE FOR SNOW PUDDING. 

Yolks of two eggs, three tablespoonfuls of sugar and one whole 
egg, one pint of milk, put in a pail and set in a kettle of boiling 
water until it begins to thicken. 

INDIAN PUDDING. Mrs. W. F. Kelsey. 

One quart milk put on to boil, with a pinch of salt. Stir together 
five good (not heaping) tablespoonfuls of corn meal, one cup of 
syrup ; add to boiling milk, stirring all the time. Cook until thick, 
butter a dish, turn pudding into it; when milk-warm add two well- 
beaten eggs ; bake slowly for two or three hours. 

SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS, ETC. 

No. i. 

Cream sauce. Boil half a pint of cream, thicken very little ; add 
a lump of butter as large as a walnut, half a cup of fine sugar. 
When' cold, add one lemon, rind and juice, grated or sliced, or 
nutmeg. 

No. 2. 

Stir together one cup of butter and one cup of sugar, yolk of one 
egg, one teaspoonful of flour ; slice a lemon, and put all into a bowl 
or pitcher, add half a pint of boiling water. 

No. 3. 

Beat equal quantities of white sugar and butter to a cream, adding 
a little grated nutmeg, and beat all well together ; put in a cool place 
to harden before using. 

No. 4- 

Take one cup of mollasses, one cup of vinegar, half cup of but- 
ter ; simmer together and flavor with nutmeg. 

No. 5. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup of butter, one tablespoonful flour, 
one cup boiling water. Flavor with lemon or vanilla. 



Bny yonr Fisli of Edwards Bros. 468 Eleventh St, 



PASTKY AND PUDDINGS. 67 

OYSTER SAUCE. Mrs. Brewer. 

FOR BOILED CHICKEN. 

Small plump oysters three dozen ; butter three ounces, flour one 
dessert spoonful ; the oyster-liquor, milk or cream, quarter pint ; a 
little salt, and cayenne. Strain the liquor into a sauce-pan, and put 
it, with the oysters in it, where it will heat slowly, but not boil. Then 
take out the oysters, and add to the liquor three ounces butter, 
smoothly mixed with the flour ; stir without ceasing till it boils and 
is perfectly mixed, then add the milk or cream and stir till it boils 
again ; add the salt and pepper, and then the oysters, and keep by 
the fire till thoroughly hot. Turn into a well heated tureen, and 
send immediately to the table. 

DRAWN BUTTER. (FOR FISH, ETC.) 

Mix well two teaspoonfuls of flour with two-thirds of a teacup of 
butter; stir this in five large spoonfuls of boiling water; stir till the 
whole boils up once and it is ready for use. Long boiling destroys 
the flavor of the butter. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Boil two or three eggs hard, cut them fine, and stir them into your 
drawn butter; if too thick, add a little cream or rich milk. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. Mrs. A. L. Stone. 

Three pints of cranberries, one and one-half pints sugar, one pint 
of cold water. Put all together in a porcelain kettle, boil eight 
minutes without stirring. Set it away in the kettle till next day. 

NEWLAND & PUMYEA'S 




Seventh Street, at Railroad Depot, Oakland. 

This Stable is connected with the Telegraph and Telephone Wires. All orders 
promptly attended to. CARRIAGES IN ATTENDANCE ON ARRIVAL 
OF EVERY TRAIN. Ladies' Phaetons, Buggies and Saddle Horses to let at all 
hours. Horses boarded by the Day, Week or Month on the most reasonable terms. 



CONFECTIONERY. 

ALMOND BREAD. Mrs. Stone. 

' .Beat stiff "the .whites of three eggs, add one-half pound of sugai 
and beat twenty minutes. Blanche and chop fine one-half pound o 
.-almonds and roast them with two ounces of sugar unti.l they are ; 
rich brown. Mix the beaten white of the egg and sugar with th< 
roasted almonds, and drop in small cakes upon well-buttered pans 
allowing the mixture to spread in baking ; bake in a slow oven. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS.- -Miss Annie Masbn. 

Two cups of granulated sugar, and hnlf a cup of cream. Boi 
well five minute-, then put it into a b<. ,.1. ilavor with vanilla, i 
desired, and stir till it is stiff enough to roil - I into little balls wit! 
the hands. Break up four or five section- >..\ chocolate, put then 
into a bowl, and set it over the tea kettle un incomes soft; thei 
add a very little water, stir it well and roll earn drops in it 

Drop on wax paper. 

MACAROONS. Miss FL, 

Whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth; iJ one-half poun< 
powdered 'sugar, one-half pound dessicated c$ it, one-half pin 
rolled and sifted cracker crumbs, and one teasp- .!ul of extract c 
bitter almonds. Drop on buttered papers in a <! ing-pan, makin; 
little round cakes. These are a very good imii lion of the maca 
roons made of chopped almonds. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. Miss Mint. 

One cup New Orleans molasses, one cup butter, two cups powderei 
sugar, pinch of soda ; boil until it just hardens when a little i 
dropped in a cup of cold water. Pour out thin. 

CARAMELS. Miss Flint. 

One cup of chocolate cut up fine, one cup molasses, one cu 
cream or milk, two cups white sugar, butter as large as an egg. Bo: 
until hard, stirring all the time. Flavor with vanilla. 



Mountain TOP Hn i ^ ce an ^ ^ e P ot 515 Fourth St., Oakland. Ice delivered t 
mUUIlldill IbU bU, i all parts of Oakland and Brooklyn. S. D, Smith, Manage: 



CONFECTIONERY. 69 

OLD-FASHIONED MOLASSES CANDY. 

Miss Wheeler. 

Syrup will not make good molasses candy; take one quart New 
Orleans molasses, boil until it crackles when dropped in cold water ; 
just before taking up stir into it a level teaspoonful of baking soda ; 

pour on plates and when cool enough to handle, pull. 

.- 

KISSES. Miss Williams. 

Beat the whites of four eggs fifteen minutes, add one cup of sugar 
and one-half teaspoonful vanilla, and beat all together fifteen min- 
utes more. Bake in a very slow oven three-quarters of an hour. 

UNCOOKED CREAM CANDY. Miss Carrie Root. 

Take two pounds of confectioner's finest powdered sugar, put the 
white of one egg in a glass, beat enough to make it light, bnt not to 
an entire froth. In another glass measure the same amount of water 
and mix with the egg. Place the sugar on a slab or moulding-board ; 
leave a little dry to mould with , make a hole in the center and pour 
in and mix with the sugar until it is the consistence .of soft dough, 
and can be kneaded like dough, adding, if necessary, water enough 
to do so. Flavor with vanilla, then mold into any desired form, add 
nut meats or a coating of chocolate. 



Your time, sugar and patience in all :iupting to make Candy, when you can buy 
the purest and best in the market of 



MANUFACTURER OF 



Home-Made, Plain and Fine Candies, 

824 MARKET STREET, 

Phelan's Building, SAN FRANCISCO. 



Candies forwarded by mail or express C. O. D. to any part of the country. 



PRESERVED FRUITS. 

Jams of all berry fruits are made by scalding and mashing th< 
fruit as for jelly, then adding a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit 
weighing the latter after it is prepared, and boiling until the whol< 
becomes thick and smooth. Boil the fruit in its own juice, if plen 
tiful, for half an hour before adding the sugar. A half hour mor< 
boiling will be enough. Too long boiling makes the fruit hard am 
dark. 

For preserves allow pound for pound as for jam. To make i 
clear syrup, use a gill of water to a pound of sugar. Skim wher 
just on the boil, as the boiling point is when the scum comes to th< 
surface, yet once having boiled, the scum is broken up, and th< 
syrup is never so clear. 

CANNED FRUITS. Mrs. Wright. 

Select the best fruit; Pare and cut in halves; then examine you 
cans, see that the tops all fit, and that none leak ; or if you use glas 
jars, see that the rubbers fit, and that the tops are ready. Fill witl 
hot water, and let them stand until needed. Weigh fruit and sugar 
allowing one-third of a pound of sugar to one pound of fruit. Plum: 
and apricots need more sugar. Put a little water in your kettle, thei 
put in the sugar, stirring constantly until it is dissolved. As soon ai 
it boils up put in the fruit, as soon as this boils up fill your jars 
picking out the softest first wtih a fork. When two-thirds full o 
fruit, pour in the juice through a strainer. Have ready some roun< 
pieces of cloth the size of a jar, wet in alcohol, and put on top o 
the fruit. This will collect the mould if any should form. Thei 
seal as quickly as possible. If you use cans, look them over whei 
you are through, to be sure there are no bubbles in the wax. If yoi 
use glass jars, screw them down again and again while cooling 
When filling your glass jars always place them on a wet cloth, t< 
prevent their cracking. Have your fruit boiling hot all the time, am 
fill very full to exclude the air. 

FRUIT JELLIES. Mrs. Wright. 
Put your fruit into earthen dishes, and set them in kettles of warn 



fir Mpnii man's j Fragrant Kalliodont, Beautifies, Preserves the Teeth, 
ill, MtJIllllldli b \ charms all who use it. 



PRESERVED FRUITS. 71 

water, cover closely ; heat the fruit until it is broken -^ then squeeze 
through a bag, or if you want it especially clear, tie it in a bag, 
and hang it up where it can drip over night Measure your juice, 
and weigh your sugar, allowing three-fourths of a pound of sugar 
to one pint of juice. Put the sugar in tin dishes, and place in 
vhe oven to heat, stirring occasionally. Put the juice in a kettle 
over the'fire, and let it boil from five to ten minutes, then stir in 
the sugar, which should be so hot that it will hiss as you stir it into 
the boiling juice; allow this to just boil up thoroughly, no more, 
as the longer it boils the darker it becomes ; take off the fire, and fill 
the jelly glasses, which have been previously dipped in hot water. If 
the glasses are placed on a wet cloth while being filled they will not 
crack. When the jelly is firm, lay a piece of tissue paper, dipped in 
alcohol or brandy, on top of the jelly. Paste paper over the glass, 
and put away in a dry, dark place. 

CURRANT JELLIES. 

To five pounds of currants add one pound raspberries It improves 
the flavor. 

Strawberries, apricots or peaches can be made to jelly by taking 
one-third the quantity of apple juice, adding to the other syrup and 
then proceeding as in other jellies. 

CURRANT JELLY. Mrs. Wheeler. 

Ten pounds currants, eight pounds sugar ; stem the currants and 
cook with sugar twenty minutes; dip out two quarts juice and put 
through a jelly bag and fill your glasses. Can the rest. 

RASPBERRY OR BLACKBERRY JAM. Mrs. Wheeler. 

To twelve pounds of berries, take four pounds of tart apples 
peeled and quartered (the red Astrican and June), cook the fruit all 
together with just sufficient water in the beginning to keep the 
apples from scorching ; boil hard for two hours ; then twelve pounds 
of white sugar and boil hard twenty minutes. This is an English 
recipe and is very good. v * 

APPLE JELLY. Mrs. A. T. Earl. 

Take red Astrican apples, and without paring, cut them up cores 
and all. Fill your porcelain kettle up to an inch or so of the brim 

Tin ttnt Pn JTo San Francisco for What you can get at MISS NAISMITH'S, 
NO Ml III) \ 1161 Broadway. 



72 PRESERVED FRUITS. 

with the fruit and pour in water until you cover it. Then let the 
fruit get well cooked before straining through a jelly bag. Return 
the juice to the kettle to be boiled till it looks clear and transparent 
Then measure it, allowing for every bowl one bowl of crushed sugar, 
warmed in the oven, and boil briskly fifteen minutes. The jelly is 
then fit for the glasses. 

If you wish to color and flavor the jelly, when the juice is'returned 
to the kettle and before it is sweetened, put in for every two quarts 
of juice one pound of raspberries contained in a thin bag.* 

* In preparing the jelly use no tin or iron utensils. 

LEMON JELLY. Mrs. J. T, Agard. 

Four lemons, two ounces gelatine, one pound sugar, one quart 
boiling water ; soak the gelatine in cold water till soft ; add the juice 
and pulp of the lemons, and sugar; pour on the hoiling water, and 
stir until all is dissolved. Strain into molds and set it by over night 

till jellied. 

i 

FIG MARMALADE.,*/. Lacy. 

Three pounds of figs, two oranges, two lemons, two pounds sugar. 
Use pulp of the oranges, pulp and rind of the lemons ; chop figs 
and all together ; cook twenty minutes. 

PRESERVED FIGS. Miss Perkins. 

One-half pound sugar to one pound fruit. Scrape green ginger, 
one small root being enough for seven or eight pounds of fruit, cut 
fine and boil with syrup ; after it has flavored the syrup skim it out. 



SPICED BLACKBERRIES. Mrs. Wright. 

To seven pounds fruit, use three pounds sugar and one pint vine- 
gar. If the vinegar is very sharp use part water. Make as many 
little bags of thin cloth as you will have jars of fruit, allowing nearly 
two and one-half pounds to a quart jar. Put into each bag one tea- 
spoon each of cloves, allspice, cinnamon, and mace ; tie the bags up 
loosely. Make a svrup with the sugar and vinegar, and put in the 
bags of spices. ^Hfei boiling put in the fruit and boil one hour. 
Seal as you would fanned fruit 



Decorative Art Rooms. Fancy Work of all Hinds, 



Mice F Q RiiPll*$ -uecorawve An itocms. i'ancy wcrz 01 
Mlbh Jj, 0, DUUllj^ 1118 Washington Street, Oakland. 



PRESERVED FRUITS. 73 

SPICED PEACHES. 

To nine pounds of peaches add four and a half pound of sugar, 
a pint of good vinegar, with whole cloves and cinnamon. Pare and 
halve the peaches and put in stone jar. Boil the vinegar, spices and 
sugar together a few moments and pour over peaches. Cover and 
let stand over night. In morning put all together in kettle and boil 
ten minutes. 

If you wish for good success in making jellies, jams, and in can- 
ning fruits, always select fruit ripe and fresh, which can be obtained at 

PORTER BROTHERS', 

460 and 462 Eleventh St., bet. Broadway and Washington. 



DEALERS IN 

Choice Family Groceries, 

464 ELEVENTH STREET, 

Between Broadway and Washington, OAKLAND, CAL. 

y-i 



insr STOCK: = 



Horace Davis' Roller 


Rice Flour, 


Tapioca, 


Mills Flour, 


White Corn Meal, 


Sago, 


Graham Flour, 


Yellow Corn Meal, 


Eastern Oat Meal, 


Graham Meal, 


Farina, 


Oat Groats, 


Glutina, 


Cracked Wheat, 


Large Hominy, 


Granula, 


American Cereals, 


Small Hominy, 


Rye Flour, 


Crushed Indian, 


Pearl Hominy. 


Rye Meal, 


Corn Starch, 





Whether Yon Trael or not. Insure against Accidents in The Tayelers, 



PICKLES AND CATSUPS. 

PICKLED PEACHES. Mrs. Wright. 

Pare the peaches, put one whole clove into each peach ; pack 
them into a stone jar ; make a syrup of three pounds sugar, one pinl 
good cider vinegar to every eight pounds of fruit, one tablespoon 
whole allspice, and two tablespoons of acacia buds. Boil the syrup and 
spices about ten minutes, and pour over the fruit ; put a plate on 
top of the fruit to hold it down. Let this stand twenty-four hours 
then pour off J:he syrup into the preserving kettle ; when it boils put 
in the fruit and boil it until it begins to be soft, then put the fruit ir 
your glass jars, and fill up with the syrup ; put a small round cloth 
on top, as in canned fruit, and seal quickly. 

RIPE CUCUMBER PICKLE. Mrs. McLean. 

Pare, core, and cut lengthwise, boil in vinegar and sugar ; about 
one pound of sugar to one quart of vinegar; boil until clear and 
transparent. Skim and put in a jar while hot ; add a few sticks oi 
cinnamon. They should stand in salt and water over night after 
cutting, before cooking. 

FIG PICKLES. Mrs. Lacy. 

Seven pounds of figs, three pounds of sugar, one-half pint vinegar, 
two lemons sliced, cinnamon and cloves. Boil all together two 
hours, slowly. 

GREEN TOMATO SWEET PICKLE. Mrs. Niswander. 

One fruit basket of green tomatoes, slice medium thickness, 
sprinkle with one teacup of salt, and drain for twenty-four hours on 
sieve or colander ; boil in two quarts of water to one of vinegar, for 
twenty-five minutes ; drain again, and mix evenly with six very large 
sliced onions, two pounds brown sugar, one-half pound white mus- 
tard seed, two even tablespoons each- of allspice, cloves, ginger, 
mustard, cinnamon, one-half tablespoon cayenne pepper, and three 
quarts vinegar. Boil for twenty minutes. (The spice is not put in 
bags). 

Cnre for Consfimition, at Fish & Go's, Eighth and Market, 



PICKLES AND CATSUPS. 7. v , 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. Mrs. Brewer. 

To each hundred cucumbers take a pint of saU, and pour on boil- 
ing wa'er enough to cover them ; cover tightly to. prevent the steam 
escaping, and let them stand twenty-four hours. They are then to 
be taken out and wiped perfectly dry, taking care not to break the 
skin ; place them in a jar in which they are to be kept, putting in 
occasionally a long, green paper; boil cider vinegar sufficient to 
cover them, adding cloves, allspice, and a little sugar: pour over the 
pickles, and cover tightly. In ten days to two weeks delicious 
pickles will be produced. 

MIXED PICKLES. Mrs. Niswander. 

One fruit basket of green tomatoes, one small head cabbage, eight 
large onions, two large heads celery, three large green peppers, one- 
half pound white mustard seed. Chop tomatoes very fine, sprinkle 
over with one teacup salt, and hang up to drain for twenty-four 
hours; add other ingredients, chopped equally fine, and salted to 
taste ; cover well with vinegar, and boil until partly cooked. 

PICKLES. Mrs. Green. 

Slice green tomatoes, cucumbers and onions (of latter one-third 
quantity); soak cucumbers over night in salt and water; cook toma- 
toes in salt and water. Place horseradish in bottom of jar, then 
cucumbers, then tomatoes, and then onions, in layers with white 
mustard seed between. Pour all over hot vinegar and sugar. 

PICKLES. Mrs. S. H. Covert. 

To one hundred small cucumbers, one quart of small onions sliced 
very thin, one-half teacnp of salt sprinkled in layers, put in a colan- 
der under a heavy weight ; after remaining six hours, drain, then add 
one gill sweet oil, one-half ounce of celery seed, one dessertspoon 
black ground pepper, one teaspoon black mustard seed; mix well 
and cover with cold cider vinegar. Put away in earthen jars. 

CHOW CHOW. Mrs. D. W. C Gaskell. 

One peck green tomatoes, nine large white onions sliced and 
sprinkled with a little salt ; cover up in an earthen dish ; let it stand 
all night, drain and rinse; then cover with vinegar, add one teacwp- 

<3 Bnoll 5 Decorative Art Rooms. Fanc7 Work of all Kinds. 
0, DUOllj \ ma Washington Strett, Oakland. 



76 PICKLES AND CATSUPS. 

fill whole mustard seed, allspice, cinnamon, ground mustard, black 
pepper, red pepper to taste; one pint brown sugar ; cook all slowly 
four'or five hours. 

PICCALILLI. Mrs. E. B. Thompson. 

To one peck green tomatoes sliced, add a pint of salt : cover with 
water and let them stand twelve hours ; squeeze them out and let 
them remain in fresh water a few hours. Take ten or twelve green 
peppers and seven large onions, put them with the tomatoes and 
chop all fine ; put them in a porcelain kettle with weak vinegar, and 
let them boil or scald a while ; draw off the vinegar and take some 
good old cider vinegar, a pint of white mustard seed, and some 
grated horseradish, add two tablespoons brown sugar, mace, cinna- 
mon, cloves, to your taste, and a small piece of alum ; pour on the 
tomatoes and cover close. 

PICCALILLI. Mrs. Wheeler. 

One gallon finely-chopped cabbage, one-half gallon green tomatoes, 
one quart green onions, one pint green peppers with seeds taken out: 
sprinkle salt over and let them remain over night. In the morning 
squeeze out the water, add four tablespoons ground mustard, two ol 
cinnamon, two of ginger, two of celery seed, one of cloves, two 
pounds brown sugar, one-half gallon cider vinegar, and simmer 
twenty minutes. Put away in stone jars. 

GRAPE CATSUP. Mrs. Carpenter. 

Take five pounds of grapes, boil and run through a colander ; add 
two and one-half pounds of sugar, one pint vinegar, one tablespoon 
each of cinnamon, cloves, allspice, pepper, and one-half tablespoonful 
salt ; boil until the catsup is a little thick. 

PLUM CATSUP. Mrs. W. Wheeler. 

Seven pounds of plums, four pounds of sugar, one quart of vine- 
gar, one tablespoon each of cinnamon, allspice, mustard, ginger, one- 
half tablespoon cloves, salt ; cook plums a little, then put through a 
colander; add other ingredients, and boil slowly three hours. 

CHILE SAUCE. Mrs. Everett. 
Twelve large ripe tomatoes, pared ; two large onions, four long 

Qwicc PnnfpntinTiPPV \ Ladies ' and Gentlemen's Ice Cream and Coffee Saloon, 
0/VlJto bODlBbLlUIlGiy, \ $16 Twelfth Street. Wm, J,F.Laage,Prop, 



PICKLES AND CATSUPS. 77 

green peppers, four tablespoons sugar, two cups vinegar, one table- 
spoon salt. Chop the onions and peppers fine, and place all together 
in a preserving kettle ; simmer about three hours. Before adding 
the tomatoes dip out one cupful of the juice. Seal in gem jars. 

CHILE SAUCE. Mrs. Howell. 

Forty-eight ripe tomatoes, eight green bell peppers, eight large 
onions, eight teacups of vinegar, four teacups brown sugar, eight tea- 
spoons each of ginger, cinnamon, allspice, cloves, eight tablespoons 
of salt, one-half bottle Worcestershire sauce. Peel the tomatoes, 
chop the onions and peppers and boiUtogether four hours ; then add 
the other ingredients, and simmer long enough to get thoroughly 
mixed. Seal air tight. 



REINHART'S BAZAAR 



CROCKERY, 

GLASSWARE, 
VASES, 

PLATED WARE, 
BRIC A BRAC, 
NOTIONS, 

LEATHER WARE, 
TOYS, 

ETC., ETC., ETC. 

REINHART & CO. 

1105 BROADWAY, OAKLAND. 

Lessons in all kinds of Embroidery at liss Naismith's, 1161 Broadway, 



Patent Kitchen Cabinet! 

OR "A PANTRY IN A NUT SHELL." 




The above Cut represent* our Kit<sl'ti Cabinet and T<tbl<< comhim-il. 

The top is the size of an ordinary kitchen table; No. 6 is a kneading 
board for bread and pastry; No. 5 is a drawer the leneth of the table, 
divided into compartments for knives, forks, spoons, etc.; No. 4 is a 
drawer with two apartments, which will hold 10 Ibs. in each division; 
No. 3 is a carving board for meats, etc., which can be laid flat on the 
top of the table, the same as the bread board; No. 2 is a drawer 
which will hold a 25-lb. sack of meal or rice; No. 7 is a large, deep 
drawer, which swings on hinges and will hold a 5o-lb. sack of flour, 
and No. i is a small drawer, which is used for a scouring board, and 
has a compartment for the scouring brick. 

Heretofore having been unable to fill all the orders constantly 
received from all parts of the State, I have increased my facilities for 
the manufacture of this Kitchen Cabinet, so that I may be prepared 
to supply my customers and the trade in general. The price is within 
the reach of all, $10. 

ALL ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO 

CHR. SCHREIBER, 1064 and 1070 Broadway, Oakland. 



A Chapter for Dyspeptics. 

"We never regret having eaten too little." THOMAS JEFFERSON. 

(These recipes have been prepared with the utmost care ; many of 
them have been contributed by those who have practically tested 
them, and others have been selected from reliable sources). 



UNLEAVENED BREAD. 

.Take Graham, rye, or oatmeal, add a very little salt, and water 
enough to make a batter as for griddle cakes ; beat and work it, the 
more the better ; have your oven hissing hot ; make a thin loaf about 
a quarter of an inch thick. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Three quarts Graham flour, dissolve a little compressed yeast, add 
to it three pints milk and warm water, one teaspoon salt, half cup 
molasses, one teacup fine flour; stir together until thoroughly mixed j 
then let it rise until quite light and put into two good-sized pans ; 
when light, bake thoroughly. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Take a quart or more of Graham flour, stir in water ; make a bat- 
ter a trifle thicker than griddle cakes, a pinch of salt, then stir briskly 
for a few minutes ; have the gem-pans hot on the Stove ; put your 
batter into the oven so hot that it will raise them immediately. The 
lightness depends upon the heat of the oven. 

WHITE GEMS. 

Stir into warm milk, or cream and milk, white flour until it is of 
the right consistency to drop from the spoon. Just as it is ready for 
the oven beat in briskly the whites of two eggs, whipped to a stiff 
froth. Bake briskly. Good, wholesome cake is made by adding 
sugar and chopped raisins. These gems are light, brown, and crispy, 
and compared with the old-time, dyspeptic-provoking, saleratus bis- 
cuits, are infinitely superior both on the score of taste and health. 



F A KIWI! ^ ^kolesale and Retail Dealer in Wood and Coal, 41Q and 412 



80 A CHAPTER FOR DYSPEPTICS. 

t 

BEATEN BISCUIT. 

One quart Graham flour, one teaspoon salt, mix -stiff with water, 
beat with a rolling pin twenty minutes, and bake in a hot oven. 

GRAHAM CRACKERS. 

Two-thirds quart of Graham flour, one-third oat meal, one half 
teaspoon salt, one tablespoonful brown sugar ; mix with boiling hot 
water, and knead until cool. Roll about an inch thick, prick with a 
fork and bake in a hot oven. 

RYE OR INDIAN DROP CAKES. 

Mix together two parts rye meal and one pait Indian with cold 
water, until it is stiff enough to be easily stirred with a spoon; stir 
until it becomes creamy, which with a strong hand will' require ten or 
fifteen minutes. Drop into hot gem pans, filling them full and bake 
in a moderately heated oven thirty or forty minutes. These are ex- 
cellent cakes. 

OLD-FASHIONED JOHNNY CAKE. 

Put Indian meal in a pan and stir in boiling milk, making rather a 
stiff mixture ; put this into baking tins, heaping up a little more than 
level full ; bake in a hot oven, or it may be baked on a hot griddle 
on the top .of the stove for half an hour, taking care it does not cook 
too fast. Turn once. 

GRAHAM MUSH. 

The standard, every day pudding. Stir slowly into fast boiling 
water, sprinkled from the hand, sufficient Graham flour to make a 
thin pudding ; let it boil ten minutes and it is done. 

CRACKED WHEAT. 

Take clean, fresh-cracked wheat, one quart wheat to five quarts of 
water ; boil in a double boiler moderately four or five hours. 

Hasty pudding, oat meal pudding, rye pudding, and farina pud- 
ding, are all made the same as Graham except that oat meal should 
be cooked half an hour. 

HOMINY. 

Soak over night, and boil in a double boiler six hours. 

Th6 TlTOlflH ' Is the ldest Accident . Com * an y . in America , the largest 



A CHAPTER FOR DYSPEPTICS. 81 

BOILED RICE. 

Examine, and wash rice previous to cooking. Take one cup of 
rice to six cups of milk ; set in a covered tin pail in a kettle of boil- 
ing water, and cook from two to three hours ; stir occasionally. 

SCOTCH PUDDING. 

One teacup rich milk, two well-beaten eggs, and Graham flour to 
make a batter so stiff that it may spread with a spoon ; three pints 
nice cooking apples, quartered and cut in two transversely, and laid in 
the pudding dish, sprinkle in enough sugar to sweeten agreeably, and 
flour enough to thicken the juice ; then spread the batter over the 
top ; bake moderately until the apple is done ; cover the top with a 
paper if there is any danger of scorching. 

OAT MEAL BLANC MANGE. 

A delicious blanc mange may be made by stirring two heaping 
tablespoonfuls fine oat meal into a little cold water and then stirring 
in a quart of boiling milk ; boil a few minutes, flavor, turn into a 
mold ; when cold, eat with jelly and cream. 

INDIAN PUDDING 

One cup corn meal, one-half cup flour, mix with cold milk; stir in 
one quart boiling milk, remove from the fire and add one cup syrup, 
one- half cup sugar, one teaspoonful cinnamon, one teaspoonful salt, 
six to twelve apples, according to the size (pared and quartered), add 
one pint cold milk ; bake in a moderate oven two hours. 

GRANULA PUDDING. 

Granula is one of the most palatable, healthful, and nutritious arti- 
cles of diet in the world. One coffee cup granula, two eggs, three 
tablespoons sugar, three pints of milk ; boil the milk and add it hot 
to the granula; soak until cool, then add sugar and the yolks of 
eggs ; beat and stir in whites of eggs just before baking ; bake in 
a slow oven one hour. 

SIMPLE FRUIT SHORT-CAKE. 

Roll out a dough made of two-thirds Graham flour, and one-third 
Indian meal mixed with thin cream, either sweet or sour, for shorten- 

Get your Bating Powder of Kelsey & Flint, 



82 JL CHAPTER FOR DYSPEPTICS. 

ing. Bake on plates or pans, making the cakes less than an inch 
thick. Cut open and place between the two, mashed strawberries, 
blackberries, raspberries, or even apple sauce sweetened to taste. 

PIE CRUST. 

The easiest pie crust to make> and an excellent one, is composed 
of flour or meal wet up with cream and a pinch of salt. 

No. 2. Stir into Graham flour boiling water to make a stiff dough. 
Do not knead, it makes it tough. The under crust should be rather 
thick and the upper thin, and the quicker it is baked the better. The 
fruit should be stewed or steamed before baking. 

No. 3. Equal quantities corn starch and Graham flour wet with 
new milk makes a nice tender crust. 

CORN SOUP. 

Grate or cut off corn of six ears ; put corn and cob in little more 
than one quart of water ; boil twenty minutes, remove the cobs, add 
little more than one pint of milk ; boil five minutes, then add piece 
of butter size of an egg ; stir in thoroughly two well-beaten eggs just 
before taking up. 

RICE SOUP. 

Boil a soup bone of bits of meats left from a roast, for several 
hours. Cool, and skim off all the grease ; strain through a sieve and 
add one cup of rice to two quarts of liquid ; cook until the rice is 
soft. If the soup is thin, beat up an egg in one-half cup of cream 
and add just before serving. 

MUTTON TOAST. 

Cut in pieces one pound of mutton, the bony part is the best, and 
put on the stove early, in one quart of cold water. Cook slowly ; 
when the meat is tender, strain the broth throngh a sieve and set 
away to cool. After removing the grease that has risen to the top, 
let the broth come to boiling, and add flour thickening with a little 
cream or butter. Meanwhile toast slices of white or brown bread, 
and dip in hot water to soften ; pour the stew over the bread, adding 
the pieces of mutton, and you have a simple, wholesome, palatable, 
dish. 

A FEW FAVORITE DIETETIC APHORISMS. 

An hour of exercise to every pound of food. We are not nour- 

Try Fist & Go's Block Better, Eiglitli anil Market. 



A CHAPTER FOR DYSPEPTICS. 83 

ishod by what we eat, but by what we digest. Every hour you steal 
from digestion will be reclaimed by indigestion. He who controls 
his appetite in regard to the quality of his food, may safely indulge 
it in regard to the quantity. The oftener you eat the oftener you 
will repent it. Dyspepsia is a poor pedestrian; walk at the rate of 
four miles an hour, and you will soon leave her behind. 





oo 



TRADF: MARK 

KOUMISS is a white, creamy fluid, prepared from 
pure, fresh cow's milk, and possessing all its nutritive 
qualities, but in a form more easily assimilable. By 
its peculiar mode of preparation much of the prelim- 
inary work of digestion is performed. 

EDWIN M. HALE, M. D., Professor of Materia 
Medica and Therapeutics, Chicago Medical College, 
says: 

"As a medical man, I believe KOUMISS is almost a nutritive 
panacea for that class of diseases characterized by failure of nutrition 
from mal-assimilation. It will remain upon the delicate stomach 
when nothing else will, and will supply the body with nutriment when 
all other foods fail. I know no medicine so efficient for sleeplessness, 
when arising from nervous irritation, debility, or deficient supply of 
blood in the brain, A goblet full taken at bed-time, and possibly 
another in the night, causes calm and refreshing sleep, leaving no 
malaise, or headache, or loss of appetite in the morning. In fact, in 
sickness or in health, I know of no beverage so well adapted to our 
comfort as KOUMISS. I have known many little children given up to 
wasting diseases rapidly recover on the use ot one bottle per day." 



533 Knox Place, Oakland. 

REDINGTON & CO., Wholesale Agents, 529 and 
531 Market Street, San Francisco. 

H, BOWMAN, Agent, Corner Ninth and Broadway, Oakland. 



Arabian Coffee Mills! 

No. 12 FOURTH STREET, 



We have the most improved machinery for roasting and grinding ; 
employ none but experienced hands, and using the best green Coffees 
that come to this market, are prepared to furnish Hotels, Restaurants, 
and parties using large quantities of Coffee, a superior article at mini- 
mum price. 

This is the only place in the city where families can obtain their 
Coffee direct from first hands, and consequently they can get from us 
better Coffee for less money than at any other house. 

We have all the various kinds of green Coffee, and our roasted and 
prepared Coffees range in price 

From \l\ Cents to 45 Cents per Ib. 

We call special attention to our 

ARABIAN ROAST, 

It is a blending of selected Old Government Java and genuine Mocha 
Coffee. It is carefully roasted and glazed with pure white sugar, thus 
retaining its essential oil, great strength and rich aroma, which are so 
absolutely necessarily in a perfect Coffee. We make a speciality of 
this Coffee and know it to be the best in California. Any one who 
desires a fine Coffee should not fail to give it a trial. 

We sell it 3 Ibs. for One Dollar. 

Our SPICES are strictly pure and are packed in full weight cans. 



Our Teas are carefully selected for their superior drinking qualities 
and are all new crop, comprising all varieties and varying in price (in 
bulk) from 15 Cents to $1.50 per Ib. Also, packed in 5 and 10 Ib. boxes 
and 30 to 60 Ib. chests. Families in the country will find it greatly 
to their advantage to obtain their Coffee, Tea and Spices direct from 
us, as aside from getting fresh goods they will effect a saving of about 
20 per cent. Samples sent free by mail. 

HILLS BROS' 

No, 12 Fonrtt Street and Stalls 24 and 25 Bay City Market, 

SAN FRANCISCO, CAL. 



DRINKS. 

TEA. Mrs. Knox. 

The bane of tea in many households is unboiled water, which can 
never extract the flavor it should. Be sure, then, that the water 
boils; put in your pot a teaspoonful of tea for each person, with one 
thrown in for a possible guest. Warm both tea and pot, then cover 
well with boiling water. Let this stand ten minutes (no longer) where 
it will keep very hot; this is steeping the process always required 
before the larger quantity of water is added. It may just come to a 
boil, but boiling or too long steeping will give the Japan tea an 
" herby " flavor. Fill with boiling water and send to the table hot. 
the Oolong teas may steep one hour and a half without injury. 

COFFEE. Mrs. Knox. 

In making coffee great care must be exercised in selecting the 
brand. I have found Hill's Bros. "Arabian Roast" to give the best 
satisfaction. It is what it pretends to be a blending of " Old Gov- 
ernment Java and " Genuine Mocha." 

Stir a beaten egg into two teacups of ground coffee, cover with a pint 
of cold water and set upon the stove until it boils. Then pour a 
quart of boiling water into it and let it stand where it will keep at 
the boiling point five minutes. Pour a half cupful from the spout to 
remove the grounds and it is ready to serve. Long boiling makes 
coffee strong but not agreeable. If you cannot have cream to send 
to the table use rich boiled milk, which gives coffee a pleasant flavor. 
Keep your coffee pot clean and dry. A musty pot will spoil the 
flavor of the best made coffee. When eggs are dear a well-cleansed 
bit ot dried fish skin can be used instead of an egg. 

CHOCOLATE. Mrs. Knox. 

An ounce of chocolate for one person ; scrape and boil it from 
five to ten minutes, with about four tablespoons of water; when it is 
very smooth, add a pint of new milk, boil, stir it well and serve ; if 
you wish to make it of water, use nearly a pint of water, instead of 
milk, and send rich cream to the table with it. 

MnmitQin Tno Pn J Office an<a Ce P ot 515 Fourth St., Oakland. Ice delivered to 
fflUUlUdlll IbD UU, \ di parts O f Oakland and Brooklyn- S. D. Smith, Manager. 



86 DRINKS. 

COCOA. 

Boil two large spoonfuls of ground cocoa in a quart of water half 
an hour ; pour in three gills of milk, and boil it up again ; skim off 
the oil if too rich. 

REFRESHING DRINK FOR THE SICK. Mrs. McLean. 

Raspberry vinegar or shrub. Cover berries with vinegar and soak 
over night. Drain off or squeeze out the juice, to every pint of 
which add one pound of sugar. Let it simmer about fifteen minutes; 
when cool, bottle, and when used as a drink put as much of it to a 
glass of water as is palatable to the invalid. 

RASPBERRY ACID Mrs. Knox. 

Put twelve pounds of raspberries in an earthen jar ; cover with 
two quarts of water with five ounces tartaric acid dissolved in water ; 
jet it remain forty-eight hours, then strain it and to each pint of juice 
add one and one-half pounds sugar ; stir occasionally until dissolved ; 
leave for a few days then bottle and cork lightly at first. If ferment- 
ation takes place leave the cork out a few days, then seal. The whole 
is made cold. 

CURRANT ICE WATER. Mrs. Wheeler. 

Press the juice from ripe currauts, strain, add a pound of sugar to 
every pint of juice. The sugar may .be dissolved either by stirring it 
in the juice in a saucepan over the fire, or by putting it in bottles, 
setting them over the fire in a saucepan of cold water, allowing them 
to become gradually heated to a boiling point. When cold they 
should be taken out, corked, sealed, and put in a cool, dry place. 
Mix with ice-water for a beverage. The juice of other acid fruits 
may be preserved in a like manner. 

GINGER POP. Miss Carrie Perkins. 

Five and one-half gallons water, one-quarter of a pound of ginger- 
ro'ot bruised, one-half ounce tartaric acid, two and a half pounds 
white sugar, one gill yeast, one teaspoonful lemon oil, the whites of 
three eggs, well beaten. 

and Rpanhr j Preserved and greatly enhanced by caring for the 

ami ueaiity \ Teeth with Kamodont. 



DRINKS. 87 

Boil the root thirty minutes in one gallon water, strain off and put 
the oil in while the water is hot, then add the other materials. Make 
at night, and in the morning skim and bottle, keeping back the 
sediment. 

EFFERVESCING FRUIT DRINKS. Mrs. Wheeler. 

Put strawberries, blackberries or raspberries into good vinegar, 
then strain off, adding fresh fruit until the flavor is agreeable. Bottle 
it and when about to use it, dissolve a small teaspoonful soda in a 
little water ; when melted, nearly fill the tumbler with water, then add 
the fruit vinegar and drink immediately. 

BEEF EXTRACT. 

Soak finely chopped lean beef in an equal weight of cold water for 
an hour, then gradually raise to a boiling point. Simmer for fifteen 
minutes and strain. 

BEEF TEA. 

QUICKLY MADE. 

Chop lean beef fine, and place it in a baking-pan, covering it with 
another pan, place it in a hot oven, and in fifteen minutes the juice 
will be ready to strain off. 



Corner 26th Street and Telegraph Avenue. 



FLOR/L AND 




Corner 14th and Washington Street*, 

Near the Post Office, 



Has for sale the largest collection of Hardy Flowering and Ornamental Plants 
on the coast. Suitable for Pailor Windows, for the Flower Garden, for the 
Lawn, for Vases, for Rockeries, for Hanging Baskets, for Ribboning, for Hedges, 
for Arbors, for Shade Trees, for Shelter and for Timber. 

Choice Flower Seed, Garden Seeds, Lawn Grass, End Clover Seed, etc. 

Also, a splendid collection of Bulbs. 

CUT FLOWERS and FLORAL DECORATIONS a specialty. 

Good Gardeners recommended. 

JAMES HUTCHISON, 

Corner Fourteenth and Washington Streets, OAKLAND* 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

JAPANESE^ CLEANING CREAM. 

Take three ounces of white castile soap ; shave it fine ; put in it 
a quart of water and boil until dissolved, then add three quarts of 
water. When cool, add three ounces of ammonia, three of ether, 
three of alcohol, two of glycerine. Put all together and it is ready 
for use. Excellent for cleaning clothes, spots from carpets, etc., etc. 

To wash flannels, make a suds of borax-soap and rinse in warm 
suds. 

To renovate carpets or upholstered furniture, first beat out the 
dust, have ready a strong solution of Spanish bark, prepared by 
covering two pounds of bark with two gallons of cold water ; let it 
steep all day slowly ; when ready to use add more water, (use cold). 
Then scrub your carpets with this as you would a floor, using a small 
scrubbing brush ; rub afterward with a dry linen cloth ; proceed in the 
same way with furniture. This restores colors, removes grease and 
makes old things look new. 

Calicos and Chambreys will not fade if before the first washing 
they are soaked for an hour in a bucket of cold water containing one 
tablespoonful of sugar of lead. 

CELERY-SALT. 

Save the root of the celery plant ; dry and grate it, mixing it with 
one-third as much salt. Keep in a bottle well corked. It is delicious 
for soups, oysters, gravies, and hashes. 

To prevent onion and cabbage odors When cooking these veget- 
ables or fish, set a tincup of vinegar on the stove and let it boil. 

Salt will curdle new milk. Hence in preparing dishes from the 
latter, add salt after it is taken from the fire. 

Lemons will keep better and fresher in water than any other way. 
After six weeks the peel will be fresh as the day they were put in. 

When your kerosene lamps give a bad light, and smoke, or smell, 
boil the burners half an hour with a tablespoonful of soda in the 
water. 

i Ladies' and Gentlemen's Ice Cream and Coffee Saloon, 
\ 416 Twdfth streeti Wm Jf r . Laage,Prop, 



MISCELLANEOUS. 89 

Ladies may avoid the injurious results occasioned by running sewing 
machines if, while sewing they sit upon a chair somewhat higher than 
is generally used at the machine. 

Sufferers from asthma will find great relief and oftentimes a perma- 
nent cure in the prescription which J. H. Widber advertises in this 
book. We have used it and know its merits. 

If you are troubled with ants, ask your druggist for a strong solu- 
tion of corrosive sublimate ; wipe \ our shelves with it and they will 
disappear. This is unfailing. 

Glass bottles can be cut off below the neck and used for jelly 
glasses. Tie a cord around the bottle, wet with turpentine or coal oil 
and set fire to it. Try it. 

To stop a creaking door, rub the hinges with hard soap. 

Coal oil will soften boots and shoes that have been hardened by 
water. 

To keep ice-water. Make a cover of two thicknesses of brown 
paper, with cotton batting quilted between, large enough to drop over 
and completely envelop the pitcher. This prevents the hot air from 
coming in contact with the pitcher. The ice will last a long time. 

BRAN CAKE FOR DIABETES. Mrs. Mary Harmon. 

Take one quart of wheat bran ; boil it in two successive waters for 
fifteen minutes, each, time straining it through a sieve; then wash it 
well with cold water on the sieve until the water runs off perfectly 
clear ; squeeze the bran in a cloth as dry as you can, then spread it 
thinly on a dish and place it in a slow oven ; if put in at night, let it 
remain until morning, when, if perfectly dry and crisp, it will be fit 
for grinding. The bran thus prepared must be ground in a fine mill 
and sifted through a wire sieve of such fineness as to require a brush 
to pass it through. That which remains in the sieve must be ground 
again, until it becomes quite soft and fine. Take of this bran three 
ounces, some use four, and other ingredients as follows : Three new 
laid eggs, two ounces of butter, and one-half pint of milk ; mix the 
eggs with a little of the milk, warm the butter with the other portion, 
then stir the whole together, adding a little nutmeg, or ginger, or any 
other kind of spice ; bake in small tin pans, which must be well but- 
tered, in a quick oven for about half an hour. The cakes when 



Insures against accidents from one day 
tc one year. 



90 MISCELLANEOUS. 

baked shonld be a little thicker than a captain's biscuit. To be eaten 
with butter or a curd of any of the soft cheeses. 



CAMPHOR ICE. 

One-half ounre gum camphor with alcohol enough to dissolve it, 
one-half ounce white wax, one : half ounce vassaline jelly. Put all 
together in a tin cup ; heat enough to melt thoroughly. 

NOTE. The following is a table of measures and weights which 
will be found useful in connection with the recipes: 

One quart of flour one pound 

Two coffee cups of butter 

One generous pint of liquid 

Two cupfuls of granulated sugar 

Two heaping cupfuls of powdered sugar 

One pint finely-chopped meat, packed solidly 

The cup used is the common kitchen cup, holding half a pint. 

RECIPE FOR HOUSEKEEPING. 



Take one part self-control, one part discipline, five parts patience, 
and sweeten all with charity. Keep constantly on hand, and the 
domestic wheels will run smoothly. 

Lovejoy's Patent Kitchen Cabinet is a marvel of mechanical skill 
and utility. No housekeeper shonld be without one. Chr. Schreiber, 
io64 and 1066 Broadway, Oakland, is the agent for this Coast. 



TO OUR READERS. 

WE would call the attention of our patrons to the 
advertisements that appear on these pages. We have 
solicited from firms tried and trusted in their several 
lines, and they have been given us generously. Let 
us show our appreciation by giving them, in return, 
our patronage. 



S. FRANCIS, 



1006 BROADWAY, ! 



OAKLAND. 



l^p 3 Fine Selection of Foreign and Domestic Qoths, Beavers and 
Cassimeres, made in the latest styles. 



MOUNT & BTJTSATJ, 



Fruit and Produce, 

STALLS 1, 3 AND 5 CITY MARKET, 

415, 417 and 419 Twelfth Street, Oakland. 

The National Gold Medal. 





Horace Davis' Flour at Fish & Go's, Eighth and Market, 



WM. B. HARDY, 



and 



961 BROADWAY, OAKLAND 



& 8 1 



From Broadway and Twelfth Streets 



1003 BROADWAY, near Tenth Street, 

FORMERLY KNOWN AS RED HOUSE. 



A. H O E N I SC H, 




867 WASHINGTON STREET, OAKLAND. 



If Furniture and Bedding made to order and repaired. Work Guaranteed. 
Charges moderate. 



. T. 

(SUCCESSOR TO GEO. S. HENRY,) 
DEALER IN 

tiT 



CHARCOAL AND COKE, 
Southeast Corner I Oth and Washington Sts 

OAKLAND, GAL. 



W. W. MONTAGUE & CO 

IMPORTERS OF AND DEALERS IN 




AND 



House Furnishing Goods. 

PLUMBING, ROOFING f GAS FITTING. 

PACKER'S ICE CREAM FREEZERS -Freeze in 15 Minutes. 



9 
Northeast Corner Thirteenth Street, OAKLAND 



Pure Crlyoerine Toilet Soap 

MADE BY 

IB. T. LIE.^^IE, 

AND SOLD ONLY BY HIM AT 

No. 1313 West Street, Oakland, Gal. 



R. E. BELL 



Junction Telegraph Avenue and Broadway, 

OAKLAND, CAL. 



Pure, Fresh, Sweet Drugs. Full Line of Druggists' Sundries. 

X& Prescriptions carefully compounded, Day and Night. 



Kirnn wont * Good Stamping for Embroidery, go to Miss J. S, Naismith's 
ml WdUI 



116 i Broadway. 



M. DE LA MONTANYA, 

DEALER IN 

465 ELEVENTH STREET, 

t 
Between Broadway and Washington, OAKLAND, CAL, 



All kinds of Tin, Copper, Zinc and Sheet-Iron 
Work Made to Order. 

Metal Roofing and Plumbing in all their 
Branches. 

SZT Repairing done at Short Notice, and at the Lowest Rates. ~\ 



FLOWED &I]D FEfflHE^ STORE, 

1024 MARKET STREET, SAN FRANCISCO. 

W ill undersell any House in the City. 

The Name above and below the Window. 



JUST RECEIVED 



Heavy Ottoman Silk, $1. 100 Pieces Silk and-Wool Plaids, 20c. 

New Shades Summer Silk?, 76c, IftO Pieces Double Width English Cashmere, 25c. 

Elegant Brocaded Silk, $l 25. 200 Pieces Fine Seersucker, )2$c. 

Heavy Gros Grin Dress Silk, $1 75. 100 Piece" Good Washing G'neham, 8c. 

Extra Quality Dress Silk, $2 50. 50 Cases Straw Hats *t Half Price. 

28 inches wide Silk Velret, $2 50. 150 Pieces Lace Worked Pique, lOc 

48 inches All- VVol Drps Goods, new shades, 50c. Special Bargains in Laces, Corsets and Lisle 

Extra Quality 44 inches, .Colored and Blaek Gloves. 
Cashmere, 75c. 

A Full Line of BOOTS and SHOES at Very Low Prices. 
A. LIPPMANN & CO. 

903 and 905 Broadway, two doors above Eighth Street, Oakland. 



T]ii MoiMiimon'o .) Fragrant Kalliodont, Beautifies, Preserves the Teeth, and 



Cbarmi all who use it. 



Tliis well known and popular House, 

1059 WASHINGTON STREET, 

Within Jour blocks of Broadway Station, is now under the management of 



the founder. It is centrally located and has large and commodious rooms, en 
suite or single, and extensive grounds with excellent table. Terms Reasonable. 

ARTISTS' MATERIALS 

AND 



Whittier, Fuller * Co. 

412 and 414 Twelfth Street, Oakland, Cal, 

BURTCHAELL & CROWLEY, 

Plumbers, Gas and Steam Fitters, 

1208 BROADWAY, 

Opposite Post Office, OAKLAND, GAL. 

Pump repairing and general jobbing. Sanitary Plumbing a specialty. 
KT All Work Warranted. &. 



CORONER OF ALAMEDA COUNTY, 

Has removed to his New Building, 

No. 466 THIRTEENTH STREET, 

Between Broadway and Washington, OAKLAND. 

&3T Everything requisite for Funerals. 

t&T Orders attended to day or night, or by Telephone. 



Use Kelsey & Flint's Flavoring Extracts, 




Ilii 



m 




LIFE 





Assets, - - $51,600,000 

, (by New York standard) $y,800,000 



with Thirty-Seven Years' Experience, this stands 

in the front rank, m everything that makes up a desirable 
company, in which to insure one's life. 



JAMES B. B0BEBTS, 

GENERAL AGENT, 

315 Ceill-forrLlsi Street, 
SAN FRANCISCO, 



Ladies' and Gentlemen's Ice Cream and Coffee Saloon, 

il6 Twelfth street> WmiJt 



BENNISON, LIEBMANN & CO 



IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN 



BEY GOODS, FANCY GOODS, 

Trimmings, Embroideries, Hosiery, Gloves, Etc., Etc. 
I 157 and I 159 Broadway, 

Between Thirteenth and Fourteenth Streets, OAKLAND, CAL. 



Pioneer Stove Store, 

1465 SAN PABLO AVENUE, 

Opposite Nineteenth Street, OAKLAND, CAL. 



(SUCCESSOR TO H. C. PRATT,) 
DEALER IN 



AND COAL, 

HAY, GRAIX AND FEED, 

Cor. Telegraph Ave. and 26th St. (Bay Place) Oakland, Cal. 



TELEPHONE FROM PORTER BttOS. 



Between Fifth and Sixth Streets, OAK I, A NIX 



FRED. BECKER, ---- Proprietor. 

} Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Wocd and Coal, 410 and 412 
/ jj lntjl streetj 



G-O TO 

J. H. WIDBER'S 

and ask for 

Pres. 178,749, 

IT IS PREPARED IN LIQUID FORM, AND IS AN 

UNFAILING CURE FOR ASTHMA. 

TO PROMOTE AN APPETITE FOR THE GOOD THINGS 
contained in this book, 

TAKE A RIDE TO 

Fiemwi Uptinne 

"LJ 

In one of those fine open cars that leave Seventh and Washington 
streets, in pleasant weather, upon the arrival of trains from San Fran- 
cisco, and leave the Post Office four minutes later. 

tf"^fc ID.* "1E3F TP? TF^P 



A. KLINE, 



IMPORTER OF 



FANCY GOODS, LADIES' UNDERWEAR, 

Gloves, Hosiery, BiMons, Fringes, 

Gimp, Ribbons, Zephyrs, Worsteds, 

CANVASSES. BEADS, TRIMMINGS, ETC. 

1111 BROADWAY, 
Between Twelfth and Thirteenth Streets, OAKLAND. 



V Rnwpll ) Notary Public and Conveyancer, 458 ^ 7 inth Street, residence 
, &, ilUyy Dll. j 410 Thirteenth St., First House East cf Broadway, Oakland, 



E. W. LUECKE. F. M. REED. 



Co. 



IMPORTERS OF 





n6r BROADWAY, OAKLAND. 




GJ-O TO 



Corner Tenth and Washington Streets, Oakland, 



Prescriptions carefully compounded. Everything warranted of FIRST QUALITY. Try 
the LONDON POMADE and HAIR TONIC. The BEST Preparation for the Hair. 

J* 

IMPORTER AND DEALER IN 

WOOD AND COAL, 

ETO-, ETO. 

, 

Office, 413 Eleventh Street, Oakland. 

It's Hope that keeps us up, 

It's Hope that keeps our memories green, 

It's Hope that makes our lives sublime, 

It's LANZ BROS, SOAP that keeps us clean. 

ASK YOUR GROCER FOR IT. 

Factory and Salesroom,, 
911-913 Third Street, near Market, Oakland. 

The wife and daughter of a prominent citizen assures us they feel 
that they cannot do without Kalliodont. 




MARK 

ROYALSEMI. PORCELAIN' 

JOHNMADDOCK&SONS 

ENGLAND 



SEMI-PORCELAIN 
DINNER 



-A.1STID 



TEA WARE, 



JJEW " 'CHMM <PATTE<RJ1 r 



This ware is a perfect fac simile of French China, equal in color 
and finish, and more durable. Buyers will notice that each article 
bears the above Trade Mark, as there are many imitations in the 
market. 

FOR SALE IN SETS OR SINGLE PIECES. 




SOLE AGENTS, 



1 6 Post Street, San Francisco. 



Should advise her husband to carry an accident 
policy in The Travelers, 



Wakefield Rattan Chairs, 




For comfort and 
durability unexcelled 
by any other style. 

We have now in 
stock the very finest 
assortment ever of- 
fered on this coast. 

The accompanying 
cut represents our 
large Franklin Rock- 
er No. 475 at $12.00. 

We call particular 
attention to our 



New, chaste and ele- 
gant designs ; in 
beautiful combina- 
tions of colors. We 
offer a better Rug for less money than any other house in San Fran- 
cisco. 

WAKEFtELO RATTAN CO. 

644 Market Street, 

SAJf FRANCISCO 



FRUIT! VEGETABLE VENDER 

Garden, 2025 East i4th Street, 

EAST OAKLAND, CAL. 



. Pnre Cream Tartar at Kelsey & Flint's. 



GOOD PLACE FOR LADIES TO GO FOR 



A 



California Market, Stalls 57, 58 and 59, 



Be Sure to go to the Right Number, 



RICE & WHITE, Proprietors. 

Whelualo and fiiiall Deafen in Flat-Clan Meat*. 

Smoked Beef, Pork, Bacon and Toneues always on hand. Sausages a specialty. 

Stalls 2, 4 and 6 City Market, Oakland. 



Entrance on Twelfth Street. 



Coal Oil Stoves 



FOB FAMILY COOKING. ALSO, MANY OTHER 
HOUSEHOLD UTENSILS, SUCH AS 



Apple Parers, 
Broilers, 

Button-Hole Scissors, 
Bread Toasters, 
Clothes Wringer*, 
Can Openers, 
Clotht-s Horses. 
Corn Poppers, 
Coffee Roasters, 
Corscrews, 
Cherry Stoners, 
Egg Beaters, 
Fire Shovels, 
Flour Sifters, 
Fluting Machines, 



Wiester & Co, 



Mouse Traps, 

Meat Roasters, 

Nut Crackers, 

Nutmeg Graters, 

Oil Stoves, 

Plaiters, 

Plate Lifters, 

Peach Parers, 

Pocket Stoves, 

Potato Fryers, 

Polish for Silverware, 

Potato Mashers, 

Rat Traps, 

Stoyepipe Shelves, 

Skates, Roller, &c. 
MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS IN USEFUL INVEST- 
T1ONS, 17 New Montgomery *t., San Francisco. 



Fry Pans, 

Fly Traps, 

Fruit Canning Ladles, 

Gas Stoves, 

Gasoline Stoves, 

Graters, 

Irons, Mrs. Potts, 

Jelly Pressers, 

Knife Sharpeners, 

Laundry List", 

Lamp Chim. Cleaners, 

Lanterns, 

Lemon Squeezers, 

Lawn Fountains, 

Lap Boards, Folding, 



Spoons, Wood and Bast- 
ing. 

Steam Cooker, 
Tea Pot Stands, 
Tea Strainers, 
Tracing Wheels, 
Tidy Pins, 
Towel Racks, 
Telephones, 
Vegetable Boilers, 
Wick Trimmers, 
Window Cleaners, 
Water Filters, 
Washing Machines. 



FUBIISS' B1STAEAIT. 

YOU CAN GET 

-<&. IPIrst-Class ik/dlea,! 

Any time between 6 A. M. and 9 p. M. for 

25 CENTS 

AT FURNISS' RESTAURANT, 

Cor, 8th and Washington Sts., Oakland. 

Coffee's oil Auction House, corner Broadway anil Eig&tli Street, 



LADIES' 
LUNCH 

ROOM, 



213 SUTTER STREET, 

SAN FRANCISCO 



J Wholesale and Retail. { 

& 

IMPORTERS OF 

Lv -A- IfcT SZ -A. X S3 , 

And Manufacturers of SWITCHES, CURLS, CHIGNONS, &c. 

822 MARKET STREET, 

PHEI.AN'S BUILDING, SAN FRANCISCO. 

Theatricals and Masquerade) COMBINGSJMADE UP IN ANY STYLE. (Ladies' and Chfldren'a 
Wigs to let. ) COUN-TRY ORDERS promptly attended to. \ Hair Cutting. 



First Class Meat Market, 

371 TWELFTH STREET, CENTRAL AVENUE, 
Oakland, Cal. 



SLAVEN'S 

California Fruit Salt. 



HAVEN'S 

ilifor 

mm 




03 
S 

crT 



M 



FOR SALE BY ALL DRUGGISTS. 



JOHN 7 A. McKINNON. 



DUDLEY C. BROWN. 



BROWN & McKINNON, 



1020 Broadway, 

Between loth and nth Streets, OAKLAND, CAL 



HUBBI 

Our Specialty, the " MALTESE CROSS" Brand. 

Garden Hose, Rubber Cloves, 

GOSSAMER CIRCULARS, HOT WATER BAGS, 'FLOWER SPRINKLERS, 

Old Wringer-Rollers re-covered and made good as new. 

THE GUTTA PERCHA AND RUBBER MANUFACTURING CO, 

JOHN W. TAYLOR, Manager. 
Corner First and Market Streets, San Francisco. 



& mm 

DEALER IN 

Foreign ^ Domestie Coals, 

WOOD, COKE AND CHARCOAL, 

Corner Market and Eighth Streets. 

OAKLAND, CAL. 



Baker and Confectioner, 

960 Washington Street, between 9th and 10th, 

OAKLAND. 



Weddings and Parties supplied on shortest notice. Boston Brown Bread and 
Baked Beans delivered hot to Customers every Sunday Morning. 
Delicious ICE CREAM made to order. 

CHAS. W. BONNEY. FRANK J. BONNEY 

CHAS. W. BONNEY & CO, 

Dealers in all kinds of 

fiir ^O^ ^Or SGr ^ ^B3> ^^ *Sb 3&i 

COKE AND CHARCOAL. 

Office and Yard-~462 Thirteenth Street, 

Between Broadway and Washington, OAKLAND, CAL. 

JA8. M. TORREY. W. W. WHITMAN. J. T. GARDINER 

1NKI, HITIU & G1RDIB, 



'9 

461 and 463 Eleventh St., near Broadway, 

OAKLAND, CAL. 



TAFT * PENNOYER, 



IMPORTERS OF 



STAPIMANCY DRY GOODS 



OAKLAND, GAL. 



/ Butterick Patterns and Publications. 
Sole Agents For < Catalogues Sent on Application. 
( John A. Cutter & Co.'s Silks. 



CHEMICAL STEAM DYEING I CLEANING WORKS, 

CHAS. REUTER, Proprietor. 

Office and Works 833, 835 and 837 Washington Street, 

Between Sixth and Seventh, OAKLAND, CAL. 

Ladies' Shawls and Dresses finished like new, with punctuality. 
Gentlemen's Clothing cleaned, dyed and repaired. 

WILL H. BURRALL, 

NOTAHY PUBLIC, 

CONVEYANCER, 



Office No. IIO6 Broadway, 

Fint Door North of Twelfth Street, OAKLAND, CAL. 



B. SCHONWASSER & CO 



IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS OF 




^ and Infante' 



134 Post Street, Corner Dupont, 

SAN FRANCISCO, 

INFANTS WARDROBES A SPRCIALTY, 

DECKED PIAMB 

Have shown themselves to be so far superior to all 
others in excellence of Workmanship, Elas- 
ticity of Touch , Beattty of Tone, and great 
Durability, that they are now earnestly sought for by all persons desiring 

THE: VEivsr 




CAUTION. All genuine Decker Pianos have the following name (precisely 
here shown) on the Pianos above the keys : 



Prices Low, 



Sf 



Sort. 



Easy Terns. 



'Send for Illustrated Catalogue. 

KOHLER & CHASE, San Francisco, 

> Wholesale and Retail Agents for Pacific States. 



BRANCH STORE, Corner Ninth and Washington Sts,. Oakland, Cal, 



M. S. SMITH * CO. 



MANUFACTURERS OF 




FRAMES^ 

DEALERS IN ARTISTS' MATERIALS, 

Mouldings, Engravings, Chromos, School Books, Stationery and Toys. 

I 154 Broadway, Oakland, Cal 



SMEDEH & DONALDSON, 

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 

Betf, Veal, Ifatton, Lamb, Pwk, Bams, 

BACON, LARD AND SAUSAGE. 

Vegetables, Poultry and Game in season. Goods promptly delivered free. 

964 Broadway, between 9th and loth Streets, Oakland. 

JSGf Liberal Discount allowed to Hotels, Boarding Houes and Vessels. 




C. F. EDWARDS. r. J. EDWABD*. 

EDWARDS BROS. 

(Formerly of Sutter Street Market, San Francisco,) 
WHOLESALE AND IUTAIL DKALERS IN 

Fresh, Smoked and Bait Fish, 

California and Eastern Oysters. Clais. Gratis. Snrimps. k 

468 Eleventh Street, 

Between Broadway and Washington, OAKLAND. 

Restaurants, Families, Hotels and Shipping supplied at the t>hortett notice and on the mo.t 
teas, nahle terms. Orders delivered fre- of chatge to any part of the City. 

M. CALISHER, 

Bookseller and Stationer, 



Cor. Thirteenth Street, OAKLAND.- 



Ladies' Stationery a Specialty. 

T. S. CLARK. L. C. CLARK. 

TRUMAN S. CLARK & CO. 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

WOVEN "*""" 




wmstw 

Of every Style and 
Quality. 

OFFICE AND 11 l| . M nn + ra nmnrif C + irint Under Grand Hotel, 

MANUFACTORY, /i NSW ivionTgoniery Mreet, SAN FRANCISCO. 



VAN STAN'S STRATENA, 

BEST CEMENT IN THE WORLD 

MENDS EVERYTHING! 



ZB~5T ^.XjH, IDIRTJG-G-ISTS- 

S ABLER & CO., San Francisco, Sole Agents, 



BROWN'S 




518 Thirteenth Street, Oakland, Cal. 



JAS, A. BROWJV $ CO., 



This Stable be- 
ing new, centrally 
located, and sup- 
plied with all the 
latest improve- 
ments, affords con- 
venience to the 
general public. 




Proprietors. 
BDGGIES 

AM> 

CARRIAGES 

With good, gentle 
Horses on reason- 
able terms. 



Special Attention paid to Boarding and Transient Horses. 



JAMES LENTELL, 

MANUFACTURER AND DEALER IN 



HOI^SE-CLOTHING, 




CAMRON BLOCK, 

469 and 471 Fourteenth Street, 

Between Post Office and City Hall, Oakland. 

A fine line of Single and Double Harness always on hand and for sale at low 
prices. No necessity to go to San Francisco to buy Harness, or for anything thai 
is kept in a well-regulated Harness Shop. 

Goods guaranteed as represented. Repairing neatly arid promptly executed, 
PLEASE CALL AND EXAMINE MY STOCK. 





L. BURBANK, 

961 Washington Street, Oakland, 

Keeps constantly on hand a large assortment of 

Ladies', Misses'! Children's Shoes. 

ALSO, MEN'S. BOYS' AND YOUTHS'. 

Custom Work and Repairing a specialty. 

THOMSON BROTHERS, - Proprietors. 

THOMSON'S BAKERY, 

Fresh Milk, French! American Bread, 

Boston Brown Bread and Fork and Beans every Sunday Morning. 

No. 1218 BROADWAY, 

Opposite Post Office, OAKLAND, CAL 

S8T All kinds of Fancy and Ornamental Cakes for Weddings and Parties. 



STEAM CARPET BEATING ESTABLISHMENT 

519 Second Street, Oakland, Cat. 



CARPETS taken up, cleaned and delivered the same day. 
CARPETS cut, sewed and laid in first class style. 
All orders by mail promptly attended to. 



JHE LATEST STYLES 



IN 



Arriving DAILY at the 

New York Dry and Fancy Goods Houge, 

E. ABRAHAMS, 
913 Broadway, bet. 8th and 9th, Oakland. 

Sign of the GOLDEN HORSE SHOE. 



ESTABLISHED A. D. 1821 



PACIFIC 

. 



ASSURANCE COMPANY 

OF LONDON. 

o 

Paid-up Capital, $5,000,000 00 

Total Fire Funds, $7,652,313 16 

o 

WM. J. LANDERS, General Agent, San Francisco. 
B, C. HAWES, City Agent, 314 California Street. 



Use Yale Locks for Safety 

u 

YALE LOCKS. 




FULL SIZE OF KEY. 

f BEST&CHEAPESI 

FRONT DOOR LOCKS, CUPBOARD LCCKS, SMALL 
BRONZE PADLOCKS, ETC, ETC. 

FOR SALE BY THE 

HARDWARE TRADE, 

- AND - 



HARDS & SNOW, 

406 and 408 Market Street, San Francisco. . 



THE 



OAKLAND TRIBUNE 

Has the largest circulation and is the most influential journal pub- 
lished on the Pacific Coast outside of San Francisco. 



THE 



WEEKLY TRIBUNE 

Is an epitome of the week's news, with special articles interesting to 
the agriculturist, and is a great favorite with those residing in the 
country. 



The TRIBUNE PUBLISHING COMPANY has a complete 

Job Office and Book Bindery, 

and can execute anything in those branches in a first-class man- 
ner, at reasonable rates. 

'J. P. OTOOLE & CO. 

IMPORTERS OF 

DRY GOODS, 

953 WASHINGTON STREET, 

OAKLAND. 



lUGGST AND APOTHECARY 



Near Fourteenth Street. OAKLAND, CAL. 



Ladies' Dress Hats, 

Misses' School and Dress Hats, 
Chip, Leghorn, 

Milan, Fancy Straws, 

IN ALL SHAPES AND COLORS CHEAPEST AT 

Headquarters for Feathers. 9O7 Broadway, Oakland. 



FHENOH LAUNDRY, 

1169 Washington Street, 

INear 1 4tli s*t.i-eet, Oakland, 



Fine Washing Laces and Curtains done up like new. 
Lace Curtains a specialty. 



HALLS SAFE AND LOCK CO. 

211 and 213 California Street, San Francisco. 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

HALLS' STANDARD FIRE AND BURGLAR PROOF SAFES, 

Vaults, Time Locks, Etc. 

Second hand SAFES bought, sold, exchanged and repaired. SAFES sold on 

easy Installments. 

C. B. PARCELLS, - - - Manager. 



Too Late for Classification. 

A chapter of Cooking Recipes and things worth knowing, received 
too late for classification. 

COFFEE. Mrs. James B. Roberts, 

Select pood coffee, according to one's taste ; " Old Government 
Java," if it can he procured. Roast to a chestnut brown, so that it 
will grind readily ; roast evenly, and discard all grains burned black. 
When almost cold (before grinding) stir the white of one egg into a 
pound of coffee, thoroughly. 

Keep it from exposure to the air, thus preserving the aroma as much 
as possible. Grind the coffee moderately fine ; put a teacupful in the 
pot, which must be hot ; pour on a quart of boiling water, and let it 
stand, say ten minutes, before using. Clarify it by pouring in a few 
tablespoonsful of cold water. It can be adapted to one's taste by 
adding sugar, cream, milk, or hot water. It must not be boiled a 
moment ; and pots in whieh coffee has been boiled must not be 
used without a thorough purification by scalding water. 

Such coffee, a life insurance policy in the " Connecticut Mutual 
Life Insurance Company," and a conscience " void of offense toward 
God and man," will conduce greatly to the peace, comfort and hap- 
piness of any family. 

HOW TO CARVE AT TABLE. 

First, as to tools, let the knife be of the keenest and the fork of 
the sharpest, and keep them in excellent condition at all times, other- 
wise the most competent carver cannot avoid mangling fish, flesh and 
fowl. Before setting the carver to work, it may be well to advise as to 
what may be called carver's etiquette. When carving do not stand up, 
or sit with arms akimbo, or bow the back. All the necessary strength 
(-an be brought to bear while seated by inclining the body sufficiently 
forward. During *\\ the pauses in the carving, the knife and fork 
shoulcl be placed in the knife rest, and never thrust under what is 
being carved. Nor should the knife and fork be held in one hand 
while adding the gravy with the spoon in the other. Do not tilt the 

Mice F ^ RiiPll * Decorative Art Rooms. Fancy Work of all Kinds. 
Mlhh ti, 0, QI6U,'! ms Washington Street, Oakland. 



1.16 MISCELLANEOUS. 

dish while serving the gravy, or the tablecloth may be soiled or the 
roast capsized. Should there be no gravy well, a tiny crust of bread 
may be placed under one end of the dish to cant it a little. Serve 
horseradish with the fork. Up to the moment of using, the gravy 
spoon should be in a vessel of hot water placed at the right hand of 
the dish. Hot plates are essential to the perfect condition of roast 
meat ; even a second hot plate for a second helping. It is scarcely 
necessary to caution the carver not to forget to ask what the prefer- 
ence is before carving. 

When carving fish, if salmon, avoid breaking the flakes by dividing 
crosswise ; carry the knife down to the bone lengthwise of the fish, 
and remove a slice of either the thick or thin part, as preferred. Mack- 
erel are split at the tail, and the upper half raised from the bone at 
that part ; the bone is removed and the lower half served either 
entire or divided into sections. This applies to most other small fish. 

In carving a turkey or chicken, roasted or boiled, place it with the 
neck toward you ; take off the leg at the first joint and then the 
thigh, or take off the whole leg and then joint it. Remove the wing 
close to the joint, leaving the breast intact. Then commence from 
the wing joint, cutting straight into the bone and somewhat diagon- 
ally up to the front of the breast-bone. Remove the side bones by 
placing the fork firmly into the breast-bone and cutting with the knife 
from the tail end. 

With a goose or duck, after the joints are removed, as already 
described, draw the knife straight across the breast-bone the entire 
length of the meat and directly to the bone, serving outwardly and 
with parts of the meat from the thigh. 

SPINACH SOUP. Mrs. Wickering. 

Boil one (mart spinach. Chop fine and pass through a sieve or 
colander. Put this into one qnart boiling milk thickened with one 
scant tablespoonful of corn starch mixed in a little cold milk. Put 
into the soup pot two ounces butter, season with salt, pepper, and a 
dash of nutmeg. Turn out into a hot tureen. 

TOMATO SOUP WITHOUT MEAT. -Mrs Chas. Ames. 

Put a lump of butter about the sixe of a walnut into the pot, slice 
some three or four onions very fine, fry until brown, stirring fre- 
quently, not to burn or scorch in the least, then turn in your tomatoes 



PnnfpntimiPiw \ Lakes' and Gentlemen's Ice Cream and Coffee Saloon, 
UIDlBUMUiy, \ 



us Twelfth Street. Wm.J.F Laage,Prop, 



MISCKLLAXEors. 11" 

and thin to the right consistency by putting in hot water ; just before 
bringing to the table thicken a little cream with flour and stir in, and 
let come to a boil, then season with red pepper, and salt, and bring 
on smoking hot. 

MAYONNAISE FOR SALADS, FISH, ETC. Mrs. Marwedel. 

Into the yolks of two raw eggs beat slowly about a teacupful of 
sweet oil, using a wire spoon. If it thickens too rapidly add a little 
of the white to thin it, before using all of the oil. Add salt, cayenne 
pepper and lime-juice to suit the taste. The whites beaten to a stiff 
froth may also be added the last thing. 

MOCK GINGER PRESERVES. 

Cut into strips the thick rind of a watermelon, trim off the green 
and cut out the inside until the rind is firm ; cover with water, into 
which throw enough soda to make the water taste of it ; let stand 
from twelve to twenty-four hours ; take out, boil in clear water until 
a straw will go easily through ; drain ; put into syrup made of good 
brown sugar, very strongly flavored with pounded ginger; let boil 
slowly until the syrup penetrates the rind. This is almost as good 
as ginger preserve, A beautiful preserve may be made by cutting 
the rind into fancy shapes, and substituting white sugar and lemons 
cut in thin rounds for the ginger and brown sugar. Soda makes the 
rind more brittle than alum or lime. 



To keep jellies from moulding, pulverize loaf sugar and cover the 
surface of the jelly to the depth of quarter of an inch ; this will 
prevent mould even though the jellies are kept for years. 

CURRANT JELLY. Mrs. Knox. 

Pick over (but not stem) the currants and put over the fire. Let 
them boil until the fruit is broken to pieces : strain through a bag. 
To each pint or bowl of juice allow same quantity of sugar. Set 
the juice on alone to boil, and while it is warming put the sugar into 
shallow pie dishes or pans that will fit in your ovens. Boil the juice 
hard for just three minutes after it begins to boil, skimming off the 
scum as it rises. By this time the sugar should be as hot as you can 
bear your hand in it. Throw the sugar into the boiling juice, stir- 
ring rapidly all the while ; skim and boil just two minutes, and 

lodTT i Should advise her husband to carry an accident 
m\\ policy in The Travelers, 



118 MlSCELLANEors. 

remove at once from the fire. Roll your glasses or cups in hot 
water and fill with the scalding liquid. 

SPICED CURRANTS. Mrs. Noah Kelsey. 

To six pounds of fresh ripe currants take four pounds brown sugar, 
one pint vinegar, one tablespoonful cinnamon, one tablespoonful of 
cloves, one tablespoonful allspice (spices ground). Let them all 
boil together three hours, or until they look well done. 

COFFEE JELLY.- -Mrs. L W. Knox. 

One pint coffee, three sheets gelatine, one and one-half tablespoon- 
fuls sugar. 

LEMON JELLY.- -Mrs. L W. Knox. 

One pint water, two cups sugar, five sheets gelatine lemon to taste. 
The above jellies are very nice for dessert, together or singly, 
served with cream. 

'ICE CREAM, GOOD. Mrs. Wheeler. 

One quart of milk ; when boiling, add five beaten eggs, one cup 
of sugar ; cook ten minutes. Flavor with Merten, Moftitt & Co's 
extract of vanilla or lemon, and freeze rapidly. The success of this 
depends in a great degree upon constant and rapid turning of the 
freezer. 

SELF-FREEZING ICE CREAM. Mrs. W. T. Ktlsey. 

One quart rich milk, eight eggs, whites and yolks beaten sepa- 
rately and very light, four cups sugar (powdered) three pints rich, sweet 
cream, five teaspoonfuls vanilla or other seasoning, boiled in the custard 
and left in until cold. Heat the milk almost to boiling, beat the yolks 
light, add the sugar and stir up well. Pour the hot milk to this little by 
little, beating all the while ; put in the frothed whites, and return to the 
fire boiling in a pail or saucepan set within one of hot water. Stir 
the mixture steadily about fifteen minutes, or until it is thick as boiled 
custard. Pour into a bowl and set aside to cool. When quite cold 
beat in the cream. For the flavoring use Merten, Moffitt & Co's 

Tin MpiipniiQii'e J Fragrant Kalliodont Beautifies and Preserves 

ur, ffleiriiflciiu \ ^ Teetbi 



MISCKLLANKors. 119 

extract of lemon or vanilla and strain through a hair or fine sieve into 
the freezer. 

DIRECTIONS FOR FREEZING WITHOUT A PATENT 

FREEZER, 

Use an old-fashioned upright freezer or a close-fitting covered pail ; 
set in a deep pail, pack around it closely first a layer of pounded ice, 
then one of rock salt, common salt will not do. In this order fill the 
pail ; but before covering the freezer lid, remove it carefully that none 
of the salt may get in, and, with a long wooden ladle or flat stick 
beat the custard as you would batter, for five minutes without stay or 
stint. Replace the lid, pack the ice and salt upon it, patting it down 
hard on top ; cover all with several folds of blanket or carpet and 
leave it for an hour, then remove the cover off the freezer when you 
have wiped it carefully outside. Dislodge with ladle or long -carving 
knife the thick coating of frozen custard on sides and bottom of 
freezer. Beat again hard and long until the custard is a smooth, 
half-congealed paste, say fifteen minutes, spread the double blanket 
or carpet over the freezer after it has been repacked with ice and salt, 
turn off the brine, leave for three hours. If the water accumulates 
in such quantity as to buoy up the freezer, pour it off, fill up with ice 
and salt, but do not open the freezer. In two hours more you may 
take it from the ice, open it, wrap a towel wrung out in boiling water 
about the lower part and turn out a solid column of cream, firm, 
close-grained, and smooth as velvet to the tongue. 

VELVET CREAM. 

Two tablespoons of gelatine, dissolved in a half-tumbler of water ; 
one pint of rich cream ; four tablespoonfuls of sugar ; flavor with 
vanilla extract or rose water. Put in moulds and set on the ice. 
This is a delicious dessert, and can be made in a few minutes. It 
may be served with or without cream. 

Whipped coffee cream for one who likes the coffee flavor is per- 
fectly delicious as a last morsel at a formal dinner or an afternoon 
lunch. Take two ounces of coffee beans and roast them ; while 
fresh and still warm put them in one pint of rich cream, which you 
have sweetened liberally with sugar. Let this stand for an hour ; 
then strain through a muslin cloth laid in a colander ; dissolve a tea- 
spoonful of .gelatine in a little cold milk, and add to the cream ; 

Try FisH & Go's Block Butter, Eighth anil Martet. 



120 MISf'ELLAXEnrs. 

then whip it to a firm froth. The gelatine may be dissolved in a 
little orange water, or lemon extract if you choose. 

CRYSTALLIZED ORANGES. 

Crystallized fruits form a prominent feature in all confectioners' 
windows just now, and beguile- boys and girls into spending all their 
spare money for them. If they care to take the trouble they can 
prepare oranges, at home, which will take the place at half f he ex- 
pense of the costly fruit. Peel and quarter the oranges, make a 
syrup of one pound of sugar to one pint of water, let this boil until 
it is like candy around the edge of the dish, then dip the oranges in 
this and let them drain ; keep them where it is warm, and the can- 
died syrup will become crystallized. Try this ;. it is delicious. 

SOUR MILK BISCUIT. 

Sift one quart flour containing one teaspoonful soda and one of 
cream tartar through a fine sieve, then add a teaspoonful of salt, a 
tablespoonful of butter ; mix with sour milk stiff enough to roll out. 
Let them stand ten or fifteen minutes before baking, then bake in a 
moderately quick oven. 

CORN MKAL MUFFINS. 

Stir two cupfuls of cream or milk with the yolks of three well- 
beaten eggs, Sift together one cup of flour, two cups of yellow 
Indian meal, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, a teaspoonful of 
salt, one tablespoonful of yellow sugar. Stir in the milk and eggs. 
Beat well together. Add, lastly, the well-beaten whites. Pour on 
well-buttered muffin rings. Bake in a well-heated oven and serve as 
soon as baked. 

GREEN- CORN CAKES. 

Grate green corn and mix with milk, adding flour enough to make 
a batter stiff enough to hold the corn together ; add a teaspoonful of 
yeast powder to a pint of batter and fry as you would griddle cakes. 

RICE CAKES. 

Take a pint bowl of cold boiled rice, three eggs, a little salt, one 
pint of milk, and flour sufficient for quite a stiff batter ; add a scant 
teaspoon of yeast powder to the flour before mixing the other ingre- 
dients ; fry in cakes in butter or lard. 



Get YON BaSiog Powder of Kelsey & Flint. 



MISC'KM.AN'KorS. I 21 

STUFFING FOR A TURKEY 

Fur a turkey weighing from eight to ten pounds, allow one loaf of 
stale baker's bread, one quart of oysters, one lemon, two roots of 
celery and one-quarter of a pound of butter. It is taken for granted 
that the turkey is thoroughly cleaned and wiped dry before putting 
the stuffing in. Crumble the bread till very fine : season with pepper 
and salt. Drain the oysters, setting the liquor aside. Now take a 
very sharp knife and peel off the outer rind of the lemon, being 
careful not to have any of the bitter and tough white skin left on : 
cut the peel in very small bits ; chop the white part of the celery 
very fine, adding the butter and the juice of the lemon ; mix the 
ingredients mentioned, stirring until thoroughly mixed ; then proceed 
to stuff body and crop. A turkey of the size spoken of requires at 
least two hours' baking, and it should be basted frequently ; the 
liquor of the oysters should be put in the pan when the pan is first 
set in the oven, and this is to be used in basting. The giblets and 
liver should be cooked in a basin on top of the stove, then chopped 
very fine and when the gravy is made add them to it. 

STUFFED TOMATOES BAKED. Mrs. Sherman. 

Choose large, fair tomatoes. Remove enough 'o'f the skin from 
the top to scoop out one-half or three-fourths of the inside. Mix 
with this for the stuffing, bread or cracker crumbs, as much salt and 
pepper as is desired, and a bit of butter for each tomato. Fill the 
tomatoes with this preparation, heaping full, and bake until thor- 
oughly done. 

PICCALILLI. Mrs. \\'clh. 

One gallon green tomatoes cut fine ; salt them in layers, let them 
stand over night, then drain them well ; one tablespoon allspice, two of 
ground cloves, six green peppers, six onions, cut fine, one pint of white 
mustard, two teacups sugar : put into a kettle, cover with vinegar 
and scald tiil tender. 

IDEAL LEMON PIE. Mrs. Kelscy. 

Line some pie tins with puff paste, and bake so as to keep the 
filling from soaking. Take a firm lemon and grate the rind into a 
bowl and squeeze in the juice ; add to that one cup of white sugar 



^wicc PmifpotinnPTiff \ Ladies' and Gentlemen's Ice Cream and Coffee Saloon, 
OWIha UUllldbUUUUiy, \ 416 Twelfth Street, Wm. J. F.Laage.Prop, 



122 MISCELLANEOUS. 

and the yolk of one egg stirred well together, then add one large cup 
cold water into which has been stirred a dessertspoonful of corn 
starch. Put into a saucepan and stir until it is a rich, clear straw- 
colored jelly. Put the filling into the crust and cover with a merin- 
gue made of the white and put it into the oven for an instant. 

LEMON PIE. -Mrs. S. H. Harmon. 

Juice of three lemons if juicy, if not, four or five ; yolks of three 
eggs and one whole egg mixed together with one cup of sugar, and 
strain. Pour this custard into a plate lined with puff paste and hake. 
Meringue Whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; add two 
tablespoonfuls sugar. Put on top of custard when baked. 

CUSTARD PUDDING. Mrs. Sherman. 

One quart milk, eight tablespoonfuls flour, eight- eggs, beaten sep- 
arately, and a little salt. Steam or bake three-fourths of an hour or 
until done. 

SAUCK FOR Tin. SA.MK. 

Two cups of fine sugar, one-half cup butter beaten to a cream, 
nutmeg to taste, and enough boiling milk added to make it the 
desired consistency. 

BOILED INDIAN PUDDINC, 

Three pints of milk, one pint of meal, five eggs ; sweeten and 
flavor to taste. Boil in a cloth two or three hours; to be eaten with 
butter. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

One cup corn starch, one nup butter, one cup milk, two cups sugar, 
two cups flour, whites of seven eggs. Mix butter and sugar to a 
cream, ; add two teaspoonfuls baking powder to the flour and corn 
starch, then add the flour, then the eggs ; flavor to taste. * Never fails 
to be good. 

CHAMPAGNE CARL. Mrs. M. P. Downing 

One cup of sugar one-third cup butter, one-half cup milk, two- 
cups flour, one egg, one-half teaspoon soda, one cream tartar, nut 
meg. This makes a good jelly cake also a marble cake. Reserve 

Pure Cream Tartar at Kelsey & Flint's. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 123 

one cup of the dough and stir in three tablespoons of grated choco- 
late. Drop this into the white part and give a little stir to marble it 
nicely. 

THE BEST SANDWICHES. 

To make wonderfully appetizing sandwiches proceed in this way : 
Take equal quantities of the breast of a cold boiled chicken and of 
cold boiled tongue. Chop them very fine ; so fine, in fact, that you 
cannot distinguish the separate particles. Add a good, large half 
teaspoonful Merten, Moffitt cS:Co's. celery salt,a pinch of cayennepepper, 
four tablespoonfuls of Mayonnaise dressing. This quantity of condi- 
ments will be enough to season the breast of one large chicken, and 
an equal quantity of tongue. When this is perfectly cold, spread 
some thin slices of bread with butter, and then with this mixture. 
Do not prepare them till you are about ready to serve them. If you 
wish to take sandwiches for a lunch when traveling, be careful not to 
make the dressing quite so moist as you would if they were to be 
eaten at home. The better way, if you do not object to the trouble, 
is to put the salad filling in a small glass jar and spread the sand- 
wiches as you need them. 

SILVERING SOLUTION. 

We take pleasure in recommending Merten, Moffitt & Co's. Silver- 
ing solution as being the best of anything we have ever used to 
polish silver, washstand faucets, or any plated ware that has become 
tarnished or worn. Ask your druggist or grocer for it. 

TO PRESERVE GREEN GOOSEBERRIES 

Fill the jars with fresh berries, gathered while green, and fill up 
with cold water, seal the jars tightly and set in a cool place. 

Every household has long felt the need of a furniture polish which 
conld be used without employing an expert to apply it. We have at 
last found what we desired in Merten, Mofifiitt & Co's. Furniture 
Polish. Ons trial will convince you of its great superiority. Ask 
your grocer for it. 

For Poison Oak. Bathe freely with ammonia. 

If troubled with indigestion, take one tablespoonful lime water in 
a goblet of milk at meals. 

Keep an oyster shell- in your tea kettle and it will prevent the for- 
mation of a crust on the inside of it, by attracting the stony particles 
to itself. 

Care for Consumption, at Fish & Co's, Eighth anfl Mariet. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

To keep out moths, use pulverized alum ; to drive away cock- 
roaches, use Pulverized Borax; to rid your premises of rats and mice 
use "Rough on Rats." All of which you can purchase of H. Bow- 
man, druggist, 951 Broadway, corner of Ninth. 

BREAKFAST AT HOME. 

" Well, madam," said the head of the house, who has apparently 
got out of bed on the wrong side, "what have you got for breakfast 
this morning ? Boiled eggs, hey ? Seems to me you never have 
anything but boiled eggs. Boiled Erebus ! and what else, madam, 
may I ask?" "Mutton chops, my dear," says the wife, timidly. 
" Mutton chops !" echoes the husband, bursting into a peal of sar- 
donic laughter. Mutton chops ! I could have guessed it. By the 
living jingo, madam, if ever I eat another meal in this house"- 
ahd jamming on his hat and slamming the door, the aggrieved man 
bounds down the stairs and betakes himself to the restaurant. 
"What'll you have, sir?" says the waiter, politely, handing him a 
bill of fare. "Oh!" says the guest, having glanced over it; "let 
me see! bring me two boiled egggs and a mutton chop," 



A Tnilpt J * s incomplete without Dr. Merriman's 
A lUllDl ] Fragrant Sallio'ont, 



IF YOU WOULD HAVE 

ICE CREAM 

Frozen rapidly and smoothly, and FRKK FROM ICY LUMPS, use the 

TRIPLE-MOTION 




White Mountain Freezer. 



THE BEST IN THE WORLD ! 

BECAUSE 

It Freezes more Rapidly, uses Less Ice, requites Less Labor, and 
is More Durable than any other Fretzer made. 

For sale by all first-class dealers in House Furnishing Goods. 



Holbrook, Merrill & Stetson, 

Cor. Market and Beale Streets, San Francisco, 

SOLE AGENTS FOR THE PACIFIC COAST. 

Horace Davis 1 Flour at Fisl & Go's, Eighth and Marlcet. 



NO BOBBINS. 



NO SHUTTLE. 



NO TENSION 



QO 
_tt 

J 



* 



U 




f 



i 



THE! 



AUTOMATIC" 

Made FAMOUS by its wonderful merit ! 

Ladies who have thoroughly investigated it pronounce it PERFECT. 

Work that is difficult or impossible to do on tWO thread 
tension machines, is executed by the "AUTOMATIC' 

with marvelous ease and rapidity. The lady with sensitive nerves ; 
the invalid, or the child can run it without injury to health a claim 
that cannot be justly made for any other machine. 

NOTE THE FOLLOWING. We, the undersigned ladies of Oakland, 
California, take pleasure in testifying to the great superiority of the 
" AUTOMATIC" Sewing Machine over all others. We know from 
personal knowledge and experience of what we speak, as we are each 
the owner of one of these treasures : 



Mrs. R. W. Snow, Mrs. Noah Kelsey, 

Mrs. E. S. Morse, Mrs. Jonathan Hunt, 

Mrs. E. P. Flint, Mrs. Israel Knox, 

Mrs. T. A. Mitchel, Mrs. W. F. Kelsey, 
Mrs. Elizabeth Hinckley, Mrs. J. F. Cooke, 

Mrs. Dr. Carpenter, Mrs. G. F. Alexander, 

Mrs. Dr. Knox, Mrs. Marwedel, 

Mrs. Tilley, Mrs. C. B. Parcells, 

Miss Emma Garlic, Mrs. Herrick, 

Send for Descriptive Circular and 



Mrs. M. E. Root, 
Mrs. C. C. Wheeler, 
Miss Sallie Snell, 
Mrs. C. R, Allen, 
Miss Carrie Root, 
Mrs. W. C. Little, 
Mrs. Duncan, 
Mrs. Chas. Kellogg. 
Mrs. Niswander. 

Price List. 



WILLCOX & GIBBS S. M. CO. 

124 Post Street, San Francisco. 



The wife and daughter of a prominent citizen assurei us they feel 
that they cannot do without Kalliodont. 



ALAMEDA COUNTY BRANCH 

n 





CO 



OF CALIFORNIA. 

924 BROADWAY, OAKLAND, 

Capital, paid up $3,OOO,OOO OO 

Assets, January 1; 1883 717,156 63 

Surplus for Policy-Holders 710,860 63 

Income, 1882 312,34902 

Net Surplus v 237,96213 

Largest Net Surplus of any California Company. 

R. H, MAGILl, General Agent. 

H. B. HOUGHTON. Secretary. H. F. GOBDON, Manager. 



LMIND 




SUE ME 



East Side of Broadway, Three Doors ate R, R, Depot, Oakland, 

Families supplied with HORSES, BUGGIES and LADIES' PHOTONS 
on the most reasonable terms. HACKS, LAUDAULETTS, COUPLETTS or 
CABS can be found on the arrival of all Trains. 

All Orders prompty attended to. 

The Only Stable in Connection with District Telegraph and Telephone Co. 
GALINDO HOTEL CARRIAGES. 

CABS and HACKS at all Hours. Nos, of HACKS 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, 




THIS BOOK IS DUE BEFORE CLOSING TIME 
ON LAST DATE STAMPED BELOW 




LIBRARY USE 

RETURN TO DESK FROM WHICH BORROWED 
AGRICULTURE LIBRARY 

40 Giannini Hall - Tel. No. 642-4493 




General Library 

University of California 

Berkeley 



LD 62-20m-7,'65 
(F5756slO)9412 




