ALBERT R. MANN 
LIBRARY 



New York State Colleges 

OF 

Agriculture and Home Economics 




Cornell University 





Date Due 




■Mt:' 


■D' B^^ 














































..-. 


-—-,., 






'. ./ 








' t^ 


































































N 














Library Bureau Cat. No. 1137 



Cornell University Library 
TX 715.B74 1883 



Margery Daw in the kitchen and what she 




3 1924 003 579 079 




The original of tliis bool< is in 
tlie Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003579079 



MARGERY DjlW \\ THE KiTGHEfi, 



What She Learned There. 



« BY LUCY W. BOSTWICK. 



Third Edition. 



On receipt of 50 cents, '' Margery Daw in the Kitchen " will be sent to'any 
address by mail. 



AUBURN, N. Y. 
PUBLISHED BY THE AUTHOR. 

1883. 



TX 
311524 



Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1880, by 

MRS. LUCY W BOSTWICK, 
In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 



Printed by 

KNAPP, PECK & THOMSON. 

Auburn, N. Y 



INDEX, 



SOUPS. 

Beef " 5 

English Beef 5 

Mutton 5 

Vermicelli 5 

Green Corn 6 

MockTui-tle G 

Black Bean 6 

Bean 6 

Tomato 7 

Pea 7 

Onion 7 

Turkey 8 

Black 8 

White Almond 8 

Potato H 

Noodles for Soup 9 

Bread-Dice for Soup 9 

OYSTERS, CLAMS, FISH. 

Stewed Oysters 9 

Cream Oysters 9 

Panned Oysters 10 

Fried Oysters 10 

Pickled Oysters 10 

Deviled Oysters 10 

Egcaloped Oysters 10 

Fricasseed Oysters 1] 

Oyster Omelette 11 

Oyster Pie.... 11 

Oyster and. Clam Scallop, 11 

Clam Soup . . : 12 

13tewed Clams la 

Clam Fritters iJi 

Susan's Clam Chowder. . 12 

Fish Chowder 13 

Broiled Sardines 13 

Scalloped Salmon 13 

FishTurbot 13 

Broiled Codfish 14 

Codfish Croquettes 14 

STEWS, ETC. 

Brown Stew 14 

Stewed Kidneys 15 

Liver Hash 15 

Beef Li,ver 15 

Sweet-Bread and Peas. . . 15 

Fried Sweet-Bread 16 

Mock Duck IH 

Cream Beef 16 

Deviled Beef 16 

Teal Oysters 16 

Beef Loaf 17 

Veal Loaf 17 

Chicken Croquettes.,... 17 

Veal Croquettes 17 

A la Mode Beef 17 

Deviled Ham 18 

French Sandwiches. ... 18 



VEGETABLES. 

Page. 
Green Corn Cakes... . 18 
Carrots a lii Francaiee... lU 

Cooked Celery 19 

Turnips 19 

Baked Tomatoes 19 

Baked Corn 19 

Parsnips 20 

Spinach 20 

Green Peas 20 

Green Corn! 20 

Cauliflower 20 

Cabbage a la Cauliflower, 20 

Vegetable Oysters 21 

Scalloped Potatoes 21 

Broiled Potatoes 21 

Potatoes Boiled in Lard. . 21 

Potato Puflf 21 

Stuffed Potatoes 2J 

Potatoes in Jackets 22 

Stir'd Potatoes with eggs 22 
A Vegetable Shape 22 

PICKLES, CATSUPS, 
SAUCES. 

Pickled Cucumbers 23 

Green Tomato Pickles.. SI3 

Chow-Chow 23 

Eed Cabbage Pickled.. . 24 

Chill Sauce 24 

Tomato Catsup 24 

Pickled Peaches. ... 24 

Pickled Cherries 25 

Spiced Currants 25 

Spiced Plums 25 

Grape Catsup 25 

Currant Catsup 26 

BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC. 

Graham Gems 26 

Vanity Pufls 26 

Waffles 26 

Bichmond MuflJns . . . 26 

Fried EyeMuflins 87 

Muffins 27 

Baking Powder Muffins. . 27 

Breakfast Cakes ■ 27 

Sally Lnnn .27 

Fritters 28 

Parker House Rolls 28 

French EoUs 28 

Soda Biscuit 28 

Crackers 28 

Graham Crackers 29 

Boston Brown Bread. . . 29 
Steamed Brown Bread. . . 29 

Johnny Cake 29 

Southern Corn Pone 30 

Corn Dodgers 30 

Gr. Corn Griddle Cakes.. 30 



Page. 
Indian Griddle Cakes. ... 30 
Eusk 3U 

PIES. i 

Pie Crust 31 

Puff Paste ,. 31 

Cream Pie 31 

Grant's Lemon Pie 32 

Lemon Pie 32 

M arlborough Pie 32 

Cocoanut Pie 32 

Mince Pie 33 

Fried Apple Pie 33 

Aunt Naomi's Cream Pie 33 

Pie Plant Pie 33 

Pumpkin Pie 34 

Almond Cheese Cakes. . . 3i 
Cheese Cakes .' 34 

PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS. 

Favorite Pjidding 34 

Sponge Pudding 35 

Plum Charlotte 35 

French Custard 35 

Fig Pudding 35 

English Plum Pudding.. 36 

Saratoga Pudding 36 

Margie's Brown Betty. . . 37 

Green Corn Pudding 37 

Grandma's Baked Indian 

Pudding 37 

Katie's Cup Custards 37 

Steamed Graham Pud'g. 38 

Batter Pudding 38 

Cottage Pudding. 38 

Gingerbread Pudding... 39 

Tapioca Puddingy 39 

Charlotte Eusse Pudding 39 
Peach 'Tapioca Pudding. . 39 

Queen of Puddings 39 

Her Majesty's Pudding. . 40 
Steamed Apple Pudding. 40 

Tekla's Pudding 41 

Chocolate Pudding. 41 

Eoyal Diplomatic Pnd'g. 41 

German Sauce 42 

No-Name Pudding 42 

Harvard Sauce 42- 

Benara Buns 42 

Velvet Cream 43 

A Beautiful Dessert 43 

Tipsey Cake 44 

Boiled Custard 44 

Boman Cream 44 

Prussian Cream 44 

Coffee Blanc Mange 44 

Potatb Pudding 45 

Strawberry Charlotte 45 

Charlotte Eusse 45 

Orange Pudding. 46 



INDEX. 



Philadelphia Pudding... 46 
Apple Sago Pudding 46 
Apple Tapioca Padding. 47 

Hasty Pnddinc; 47 

Corn-Starch Pudding — 47 
One-Egg Bread Pudding. 47 
Delmonico Padding ... 47 

Lemon Pudding 48 

Mock Plum Pudding ... 48 

German Puflfs 48 

Haple Sugar Sauce 49 

Wine Sauce 49 

Every Day Pudd'g Sauce 49 

TanillaSauce 49 

Lemon Sauce 49 

Cream Sauce 50 

Fairy-Butter 50 

SALADS. 

Salad DrecBing 50 

Grand Union Mayonnaise 

Dressing 51 

Cabbage Salad 61 

Hot Cabbage Salad 51 

Chicken Salad 51 

Sweet-Bread Salad 5i 

Lobster Salad 52 

Veal Salad 52 

Salniou Salad 53 

French Salad 53 

Potato Salad 53 

Tomato Salad 53 

Asparagus Salad 53 

ICE CREAMS, ETC. 

Ice Cream 54 

White Ice Cream 54 

Caramel Ice Cream. ... 54 
Chocolate Ice Cream... 54 

Lemou Ice 5f> 

Lemon yherbet 55 

Orange Sherbet 55 

Pineapple Sherbet 55 

Sherbet 5G 

Frozen Oranges 56 

Frozen Sirawberiies 56 

Fruit Frappees 56 

JELLIES AND PRESERVES. 

Lemon Jelly 56 

Orange Jelly 57 

Wine Jelly 57 

Jelly Oranges 57 

Orange a la Surprise 58 

Whipped Cream 58 

Moonshine 59 

Lemon Honey 59 

Grated Pineapple 59 

Brandy Tutti Kruitti ... 59 

Brandy Peaches 60 

Orange Marmalade 60 

Preserved Blackberries. . 61 

CAKES. 

White Mountain Cake. . . 61 

Neapolitan Cake 62 

Lincoln Cake 62 

CocoanutCake 62 

California Cocoanut Jel- 
ly Cake 62 

Clay Cake fi-i 

Tri-Color Cake 03 



Page. 
Excelsior Sponge Cake . . 63 

Sponge Cake 63 

Drop Sponge Cake or 

Lady's Fingers 63 

Seneca Sponge Cake 64 

Almond Sponge Cake 64 

Pound Cake 64 

Measure Pound Cake 64 

Orange Cake 65 

Orange Wafers 65 

Madalins 65 

Chocolate Layer Cake. . . 65 

Chocolate Cake 66 

Chocolate Eclair Cake . . 66 

Jenny Lind Cake 66 

Pearl Cake 66 

Cinnamon Bunu 66 

Spanish Runn 66 

Angel's Food Cake 67 

Rosy Mom Cake 67 

Sunshine Cake 67 

English Walnut Cake ... 67 
Miss Eliza Homer's Cup 

Cake 68 

Snow Balls 68 

Garfield's Whims —1881. 68 

Quick Loaf Cake 68 

Imperial Cake 68 

Califomiii Fig Cake 68 

Delicate Cake 69 

Tumbler Fruit Cake 69 

Wedding Cake 69 

White Frait Cake 69 

BlackCake 70 

Hartford Election Cake 

—"Extra." 70 

Golden Jumbles 71 

Jumbles 71 

Almond Coekies 71 

Love Knots 71 

New Year's Cakes 71 

Gingerbread 72 

Katie's Ginger Snaps — 72 

Bath Ginger Snaps 72 

Bolivars 72 

Fairy Gingerbread 72 

Mrs. Dr. Kudd's Ginger 

Cake-iS-'7 73 

Molasses Cakes 73 

Cinnamon Sand Tarts. . . 73 

Doughnuts 73 

Crullers 73 

Dominoes 74 

Boiled Frosting 74 

Frosting 74 

Chocolate Frosting 74 

Golden Frosting 75 

Nut Frosting 75 

Cochineal Syrup 75 

CANDIES. 

Molasses Candy 75 

Molasses Taffy 7ti 

Butterscotch 76 

Pea-Nut Candy 76 

Horebound Candy .... 7ti 

Pop Corn Balls 76 

Vanilla Sugar Candy , . 77 

Wintergreen Candy 77 

French Cream Candy 77 

Peppermiut Creams 7S 

Fruit Cream 7s 

Nut Creams 7s 

Walnut Creams 78 



Page. 

Panache Cream ^ 

Chocolate Creams 79 

Cocoannt Cakes 79 

Chocolate Caramels 79 

SUGGESTIONS FOR THE 

SICK ROOM. 

Invalid's Bill of Fare.... 80 

Beef Tea 81 

Chicken Broth 81 

Mutton Broth 81 

Water Gruel 81 

Eaisin Gruel 81 

Oatmeal Gruel 81 

Buckwheat Gruel 81 

Flaxseed Tea 82 

For Hoarseness Hi 

Cough Syrup 82 

Cure for a Felon 8i 

Cholera Infantum 82 

Hop Bitters 82 

Sago Jelly 83 

Panada 83 

Arrow- Root Custards.. . 83 

Baked Milk 83 

To Check a Cold Si 

SUNDRIES. 

For Coming Beef 84 

Frtnch Mustard 84 

Lemonade 84 

Goava Jelly Punch S* 

Ginger Cordial 84 

Sarsaparilla Syrup 85 

Fine Cologne Water 85 

Recipe for Yeast 85 

Tooth Powder 85 

something Worth Know- 
ing 86 

College Hill Pie- Plant Pie 86 
Weights and Measures.. ^ 

ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 

French Soup S7 

Mock Turtle Soup 87 

Force Meat Balls 87 

Browning for Soup 88 

Oj'Ster Salad 88 

Scalloped Lobster 88 

Pressed Chicken 88 

English Potted Beef SS 

Chicken Jelly 89 

Sweet-Breads and Mush- 
rooms 89 

Escaltoped Cheese 89 

Horse-radish Sauce ^ 

Solid Syllabub.,.. 90 

Frozen Pineapple 90 

Klemish Cream 90 

Peach Snow Balls 90 

Charlotte Eusse 91 

Hickory Nut .Macaroons. 91 

Queen's Cake 91 

Whims 91 

Hickory Nut Jumbles.. 91 
Good Substitute for 

Cream 91 

Golden Pound Cake 92 

Arab Kacahoul 92 

Glycerine Cream 92 



SOUPS. 



Beef Soup. 

Take a shank of beef with plenty of meat upon it and boil 
five or six hours the day before using. The next day skim off 
the grease, put the jelly in the soup kettle, and one hoar before 
serving add turnips, carrots, onions, and cabbage chopped fine 
in quantity desired ; a few tomatoes and a little celery improve 
it. Season with pepper and salt. Drop in a few noodles. 
Three tablespoonfuls of rice may be added with the vegetables. 

English Beef Soup. 

Three pounds of lean beef cut fine, one carrot, and one tur- 
nip cut fine ; put in a saucepan and fry brown ; then put them 
in a gallon of water and boil until all are well cooked. Season 
with pepper and salt. Add one glass of sherry wine. 

" ■ ' Mutton Soup. 

Boil a leg of mutton three hours, and take the water for the 
soup; season with pepper and salt. Add a small cup of barley 
or rice, as preferred, throw in a little chopped parsley, if liked, 
r/and boil about an hour. 

Vermicelli Soup. 

Boil a shank of veal in three quarts of water, three hours 
with one whole turnip, onion and carrot, then strain, and add a 
small cup of vermicelli, and boil three-quarters of an hour. 
Season with pepper and salt ; if the water boils away add more. 



6 margery daw is the kitchen. 

Green Corn Soup. 

Take one dozen ears of corn, scrape the cobs and boil them 
twenty minutes in one quart of water. Remove the cobs, put 
in the corn and boil fifteen minutes. Add two quarts of rich 
milk seasoned with salt, pepper and butter, and thicken with 
two tablespoonfuls of flour. Boil ten minutes, turn into a 
tureen in which are the well beaten yolks of three eggs. 

Mock Turtle Soup. 

One quart of black beans and-five pounds of lean beef. Put 
into the soup kettle in the morning in cold water sufficient for 
the quantity of soup desired, and cook slowly all day. Strain 
through a sieve. Add salt, pepper, and plenty of cloves, to 
taste. Let it stand all night. When desired to serve cut two 
lemons into thin slices, put them into the tureen and pour over 
them the soup. 

Black Bean Soup. 

One quart of black beans, one pound of lean beef, one-haK 
pound of salt pork, three quarts of water. Soak the beans all 
night, and in the morning pour off the water and put them in 
the soup kettle with three quarts of cold water, in which are the 
meat and pork. Boil three or four hours, adding water as it 
boils away. Slice some lemon into the tureen before serving, 
also some bread cut into small pieces, and fried in butter. 
Strain through a colander into the tureen. 

Bean Soup. 

Soak one quart of beans over night in cold water ; in the 
morning pour off the water, and put them in a kettle with four 
quarts of water, boil until soft enough to pass thi'ough the col- 
ander. Season with pepper and salt, and a piece of butter the 
size of an egg, or boil with the beans a piece of salt pork. 
Throw pieces of bread cut into small pieces and fried in butter, 
into the tureen, and strain the soup upon them ; if the soup is 
too thick, add boiling water. 



SOUPS. 7 

Tomato Soup. 

Pat one quart of water into a kettle, and when boiling add 
one quart of tomatoes. When it boils again put in one tea- 
spoonful of soda ; as soon as it is done foaming add one pint of 
milk, four rolled crackers ; season with butter, pepper, and salt, 
and serve very hot. 

Tomato Soup. 

One and one-half pounds of lean beef in one gallon of water 
boiled down to three pints ; add one quart of tomatoes, one cup 
of sweet milk, two tablespoonf uls of flour rubbed into a piece 
of butter the size of an egg. Then boil one hour ; less will do. 
Season with pepper and salt and strain through a colander. 

Pea Soup. 

One quart of split peas soaked over night in two quarts of 
water. In the morning pour ofE the water and put the peas in 
the soup kettle with four quarts of water. Let them boil un- 
til cooked enough to pass through the colander ; about two 
hours. As soon as it begins to boil cut up one large onion and 
fry brown in a spider with a piece of butter the size of a large 
egg, and put into the kettle with the soup. Strain and season 
with salt and pepper before serving. As the water boils away 
add more. A couple of slices of salt pork or a little beef stock 
is a great improvement 

Onion Soup. 

Put a piece of butter the size of a small egg into a saucepan • 
when very hot add two or three large onions sliced thin. Stir 
and cook them until they are red; then add half a teacup 
of flour ; stir this constantly until it is red. Do not let -it burn. 
Now put in a pint of boiling water, and add pepper and salt. 
Mix it well and let it boil one minute. Pour it into the soup 
kettle and set it on the back of the range until nearly time to 
serve ; then add one quart of boiling milk and two or three 
well mashed boiled potatoes. Add to the potatoes a little of 
tbe soup, at first, then more until thin enough to put into the 



8 MARGERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

soup kettle. Stir well together and season with pepper and 

salt. It requires plenty of salt. Put pieces of toasted bread, 

cut in diamond shape, in the bottom of the tureen, pour over 

them the soup, strain through a colander, and serve very hot 

This soup is improved by using soup stock instead of water, or 

the water in which a chicken has been boiled, can be saved for 

this purpose. 

Turkey Soup. 

Place the frame of a cold turkey, with the remnants of dress- 
ing and gravy in a pot, and cover with cold water, simmer 
gently three hours, let it stand till the next day. Eemove the 
fat, skim off all the bits and bones. Put the soup on to heat 
untU it boils ; then thicken slightly with flour wet with water, 
and season to taste. 

Black Soup. 

Boil a shank of beef five or six hours in water enough to 
cover it ; salt and skim well. Remove the meat, and thicken 
with one or two tablespoonfuls of browned flour mixed in cold 
water ; season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and cloves. A little 
tomato catsup improves it. Just before serving, throw into the 
tureen a few small crackers and thin slices of lemon. 

White Almond Soup. 

A shank of veal put into five quarts of cold water and boiled 
down to four; put one carrot, one bunch of celery, one good 
sized onion, and two cloves into a bag, and put them into the 
soup kettle with the veal and boil half an hour, or until the 
flavor is extracted ; then take them out, there being no further 
use for them. When the liquor is boiled down to four quarts 
set it aside until the next day. When j'ou wish to serve, put 
the jelly into the soup kettle, and add two ounces of blanched 
almonds chopped fine, and half a pint of sweet cream. Cook a 
few moments, and send to the table 

Potato Soup. 

Ten large potatoes boiled soft ; pour off the water and mash. 
Add one-fourth pound of butter and pour on three pints of cold 



soui:s. ' 9 

milk; let it come to a boil, stirring to prevent burning; Sea- 
son with pepper and salt ; put some toasted crackers or bread 
fried in butter into the tureen, and strsSn the soup on to them 
through a colander. Serve hot. 

Noodles for Soup. 

Take one egg, two tablespoonfuls of flour, a small teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder, a little salt. Beat the egg light, stir the 
flour with the baking powder and salt, add the egg. Ten min- 
utes before serving the soup, drop this batter from the spoon 
into. it. 

Bkead-Dice fok Soup. , 

Take slices of stale bread ciit in small squares ; throw into 
hot lard and fry until brown. Skim out, drain, and put into 
the soup tureen before serving the soup. Crackers crisped in 
the oven are nice to serve with oyster soup. 



OYSTERS, CLAMS, FISH. 



Stewed Oysteks. 

Take one quart of oysters and one dozen clams (more if 
liked). Wash the oysters and put them into a kettle with one 
pint of boiling water.. Add the clarns and their liqtior; let 
them come to a boil. Add a little milk (cream if you have it), 
butter, pepper and salt, with two rolled crackers. Let them 
boil only two or three minutes. 

Cream Oysters. 

Take one quart of fine large oysters ; wash and di-ain ; one 
pint of cream (milk- will' do, with more butter).' Put the oysters 
and cream into separate kettles to heat. The oysters, when the 



10 MAKGERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

edges curl, are to be taken from the juice in the kettle and put 
on a platter to keep warm ; then take crackers rolled very fine 
and sift into the cream »r milk. Add the oyster juice, season 
with pepper and salt to taste, and more or less butter as the 
richness of the cream may require. Pour the cream over the 
oysters and serve very hot. 

Panned Oysteks. 

Wash the oysters and put them in a stew pan without water. 
Cook them only two or three minutes. Season with butter, pep- 
per and salt. Serve in liot oyster plat*, as they must be eaten 

hot. 

' Fried Oysters. 

Take count oysters, drain them from their liquor, and dip 
them first in beaten egg and then in rolled cracker, and fry in a 
spider or on a griddle in hot butter and lard (equal parts). 

Pickled Oysters. 

Scald fine large oysters in their own liquor ; as soon as they 
come to the boiling point take them out with the skimmer and 
lay them smooth on a platter. Take part of the liquor in which 
the oysters have been cooked, and add vinegar according to its 
strength, having enough to cover the oysters. Put with tbe 
liquor some whole pepper, cloves, allspice, and a few blades of 
mace. Put the oysters into a tureen or stone jar, and pour over 
them the vinegar and spices, scalding hot. Set them aside to 
cool. Use none but cider vinegar, as acid will eat the oystera 

Deviled Oysters. 

To one quart of chopped oysters, add six tablespoonfuls of 
rolled cracker, four tablespoonfuls of melted butter, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, one-fourth teaspoonful of pepper. Bake in hot 
oyster shells fifteen or twenty minutes. 

EscALOPED Oysters. 
Put a layer of cracker crumbs in the bottom of a baking dish, 
then a layer of oysters ; next a layer of cracker crumbs with 



OYSTERS, CLAMS, FISH. 11 

salt, pepper and small pieces of butter sprinkled over, and so on 
until the dish is full, having cracker crumbs, with pepper, salt 
and butter for the top layer. Then p*ur over all one cup of 
milk, and bake forty minutes. 

Fricasseed Oysters. 

Wash one quart of oysters and drain in the colander; put a 
tablespoonful of butter in a spider, and when brown put in the 
oysters. As soon as they commence to cook, add another table- 
spoonful of butter well mixed with a small tablespoonful of 
flour. Add one tablespoonful of cream or milk into which one 
egg has been beaten. When this has come to a boil, pour over 
toast and serve hot. Season with peppei- and salt. 

Oyster Omelette. 

Beat six eggs separately ; add, by degrees, one gill of cream 
to the beaten yolks ; season with salt and pepper, add the 
whites, well beaten. Have ready one dozen large oysters cut in 
half. If the oysters are smaller, more can be taken, and chop- 
ped. Put into a sauce pan to heat, one tablespoonful of butter ; 
pour the eggs into it ; drop the oysters on evenly. Fry a light 
brown, then set in the oven to brown the top, or turn as an or- 
dinary omelette. 

Oyster Pie. 

Line a deep dish with rich pie crust ; lay a plate on top of 
the dish. Upon this place a top crust for the pie and bake it. 
While the crust is baking, wash and drain one quart of oysters. 
Cook them in a stew pan for three minutes. Season with but- 
ter, pepper and salt, to taste. Add one tablespoonful of cream 
if you have it. If not, use milk. When the crust is done take 
off the crust on the plate and then fill the pie with the oysters 
prepared, place the top crust over them, and it is ready to serve. 

Oyster and Clam Scallop. 

^^e one .quart of oysters and one pint of clams ; put a layer 
of jCracker crlfcnbs into the bottom of a baking dish, then a layer 



12 MARGERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

of oysters and clams, mixed ; (the clams can be chopped, or 
not, as preferred), then a layer of cracker crambs, with pepper 
and pieces of butter, and so continue until the dish is full. Pour 
over the whole a cup of milk. Some of the clam juice can be 

used. 

Clam Soup. 

Wash fifty clams, put them in a pot and cover them with 
water ; let them boil, and as soon as the shells open take them 
out with a skimmer. Chop the clams, strain the water they 
were boiled in, and return it to the kettle ; add the chopped 
clams, one quart of milk, pepper and salt, (not much salt), one- 
fourth pound of butter, and thicken with rolled cracker. 

Stewed Clams. 

Take the clams from the shells, as many as you wish, put 
them into a stew pan with their own liquor, butter and pepper. 
Let them stew slowly. Butter some slices of toast, and pour 
them over. Serve in a deep dish. 

Clam Fritters., 

Two dozen clams chopped. Stir into them three well beaten 
eggs and three tablespoonfuls of their own liquor ; add flour 
enough to make a thin batter. Fry in a spider, in hot butter 
and lard. When brown on one side, turn the other side. 

Susan's Clam Chowper. 

Fifty clams chopped fine ; an equal quantity in measui'e of 
chopped onions, small round crackers, eight slices of pork fried 
crisp in a spider, taken from the grease and chopped fine. (The 
grease is not used). Take a kettle and put in layers: first 
pork, then clams, then onions ; next crackers and little bits of 
butter, salt and pepper. (Not much salt). So continue until 
all is used. Pour on clam juice enough to moisten, and set the 
kettle on the back of the range. If you should not Ijave suffi- 
cient clam jaice, add a little water. Cook three hours. Do not 
stir it. When done, take one and one-half cups of, clam juice 



OYSTEUS, CLAMS, FISH. 13 

thickened with a little flour, and put in two tablespoonfuls of 
Worcestershire sauce. When hot pour over the chowder and 
serve. 

Fish Chowder. 

Take four slices of salt pork and fry brown in the bottom of 
the pot, and pour off the grease ; chop the pork fine. Put in 
the bottom of the pot a layer of haddock, or fresh cod ; any 
other firm, fresh fish will do, cut. in thin slices ; next a layer of 
crackers with some of the chopped pork and thin slices of onion, 
then fish, and so on until the whole is used. Season with pep- 
per and salt ; pour over hot water enough to cover well, and 
boil one hour. Serve hot as soup. 

Broiled Sardines. 

Select fine large sardines ; take them from ihe box with care 
wipe the oil from them ; dip them first in egg and then in rolled 
cracker, and fry in a spider in hot butter, and serve on toast. 

Scalloped Salmon. 

Take salmon, (canned will do) picked up fine, taking care to 
remove all the bones ; put a layer of cracker crumbs in a bak- 
ing dish, then a layer of salmon with, pieces of butter, pepper, 
and salt, with a little milk ; then another of crumbs, another of 
salmon, and so on until the dish is filled, having cracker crumbs 
and pieces of butter on the top ; add milk enough to make it 
quite moist, then bake in a quick oven half an hour. 

Fish Turbot. 

Four pounds of white fish boiled twenty minutes in salted 
water ; pick out the bones, skin, and break in small pieces and 
set it aside to cool. 

One pint of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of onion chopped 
fine, two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley, one heaping tea- 
spoonful, of thyme, two-thirds of a teacup of butter, one large 
tablespoonful of flour, two eggs, one tablespoonful of cold 
water. When the milk boils, stir in the onions, parsley, and 



14 MARGERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

thyme. Eub butter and flour together, then let it boil ; beat 
up the egg with the water, and stir in slowly just before taking 
from the fire. Salt the boiled fish and dressing. When both 
are perfectly cold, put in a baking dish first a layer of fish, then 
a layer of dressing, until all is used ; cover the top with rolled 
cracker crumbs and small pieces of butter. Bake three-quar- 
ters of an hour in a moderate oven. 

Broiled Codfish. 

Take a nice piece of salt codfish, remove the skin, wash it 
and lay it on the gridiron and broil, turning it as often as nec- 
essary to prevent burning. It requires broiling twenty minutes. 
(It is a very nice relish for tea, for those who are fond of salt 
fish.) 

Codfish Croquettes. 

One and three-fourths pounds of mashed potatoes, one pound 
of salt codfish, four ounces of butter, one gill of cream or milk, 
a half teaspoonful of pepper, one egg. Pour cold water on the 
fish ; let it come to a boil and then pour off the water ; melt 
the butter in the hot potato, add the fish, cream, and pepper; 
beat very hard and light with a fork until perfectly smooth. 
Make into balls, drop in hot lard like doughnuts, or fry in hot 
lard in a spider. 



STEW^S, ETC. 



Brown Stew. 



One pound of beef cut in small pieces and browned in a hot 
spider with one tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of 
flour sifted in gradually, and stirred until brown. Add one car- 
rot cut into thin slices, two medium-sized onions sliced, three 
whole cloves, three allspice, pepper and salt, to tast& Cover 



STEWS, ETC. 15 

with boiling water and simmer steadily three hours. Just be- 
fore serving, add two tablespoonfuls of tomato catsup, and a 
glass of sherry, if you like. 

Stewed Kidneys. 

Cut beef kidneys into inch square pieces, removing every 
particle of fat and gristle. Pour cold water over them and 
wash thoroughly, once, in hot water. Let them boil about 
three hours, or until they are tender. Do this the day before 
if desired for breakfast In the morning take the kidneys and 
the water in which they were boiled ; let them stew until just 
before breakfast is served, adding butter, pepper and fealt, to 
taste. Stir a little flour in cold water and add to thicken the 
gravy. Serve hot with baked or stewed potatoes. 

Liver Hash. 

Take calf's liver and parboil it in water fifteen minutes, when 
cold, chop fine. Put into a stew pan with water enough to 
cover it. Season with butter, pepper and salt, to taste, and 
thicken with a little flour. A little sweet cream is a great im- 
provement. This is a nice dish for breakfast or supper 

Beef Lives. 

Take beef liver, lay it on the meat board, and scrape with a 
large knife, removing the pipes and. strings. Put it in a bowl, 
season well with pepper and salt, beat in one egg, drop from 
the spoon into a spider with hot butter and lard. Cook well 
and turn. This is the best way to cook beef liver. 

Sweet-Breads and Peas. 

Boil the sweet-breads in water with a little salt fifteen min- 
utes. Make a white gravy, with half a cup of milk, butter and 
salt, thicken with one teaspoonful of flour. Cook the sweet- 
breads in this a few minutes. Serve on a platter with green 
peas around the outside edge. ' Canned French peas may be 
used. 



16 margery daw in the kitchen. 

Fried Sweet-Breads. 

Wash the sweet-breads in salt and water, and parboil twenty- 
minutes. Either cut them in two, or in smaller pieces, dip in 
egg, then in rolled cracker crumbs, and fry in a spider in hot 
butter and lard. 

Mock Duck. 

Have a round beef steak cut an inch thick. Lay on the 
meat board, remove the bone, sew up the open places. Make 
a dressing of bread crumbs well seasoned with pepper and salt, 
and two small chopped onions. Pack the dressing thick in the 
middle of the steak, roll up and sew together. Put into a ket- 
tle on the top of the range, with just enough wator to keep it 
from, burning, adding more as it boils away. Cook slowly three 
hours, turning often that it may brown nicely on all sides. Ee- 
move the steak to the platter, taking out the threads ; thicken 
the gravy slightly with flour, and pour part over the meat, 
serving the rest in a gravy dish. 



> 



Crbam Beef. 



Throw dried beef, shaved very thin, into boiling water, let it 
stand a few moments, pour off the water, and add good rich 
cream, letting it come to a boil. If you have not cream, use 
milk and butter thickened with a very little flour. Season ^ith 
pepper, and serve on toast or not, as you pleasa 

Deviled Beef. 

Take slicss of cold rare roast beef, lay them on the broiler 
over very hot coals, and broil quickly ; season with pepper and 
salt, laying a piece of butter on each, serving very hot. 

Veal Oysters. 

Select nice white veal, cut into pieces the size of large oysters, 
pound well and dip into beaten egg, then into rolled cracker 
and fry in hot lard, as oysters. A most delicious manner of 
cooking veal. 



stews, etc. 17 

Beef Loaf. 

Three pounds of raw beef chopped fine, one slice of pork 
chopped, three soda crackers rolled fine, one egg, one-half 
cup of milk, one tablespoonful of melted butter, one table- 
spoonful of salt, one teaispoonful of pepper. Mix well to- 
gether, pack into a tin, and bake two hours. 

Veal Loaf. 

Three pounds of raw veal cutlet chopped fine, two slices 
of salt pork chopped, two eggs, three teaspoonfuls of salt, 
one of pepper, two slices of bread crumbed fine, one-half 
cup of cream or milk. Make into a loaf, dredge with flour, 
and bake three hours. It is nice to put hard boiled eggs 
through the loaf. 

Chicken Ckoquettes. 

Three cups of chopped chicken, one cup of soft bread 
crumbs, two eggs, pepper and salt to ta^ste. Mix well to- 
gether and form into pear shaped balls. A little chopped 
parsley may be added. Eoll them in egg, then in cracker, 
and fry in lard in a wire basket, as doughnuts. 

Veal Croquettes. 

Two pounds of well cooked veal, chopped very fine, season 
with pepper and salt, onion and parsley. Two eggs, one table- 
spoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of flour mixed well to- 
gether ; over this pour boiling water till well thickened. Stir this 
mixture well through the chopped meat and set it aside to cool. 
Beat an egg, form the dressed veal into cones the size of an egg^ 
dip into the beaten egg ; roll in cracker crumbs, and fry in hot 
lard (in a wire basket,) as you would doughnuts. 

'" A LA Mode Beef. 

Cut from the round, as heavy a piece as you would like. 
Take out the bone, and fill the place with bread crumbs, rea- 
soned with pepper and salt. Slash the top, insert blocks of salt 
pork an inch square, leaving them high over the beef ; place 

2 



18 MARGERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

more dressing, leaving the porlc to show through. Scatter 
whole cloves and blades of cinnamon over all, and around the 
sides of the beef stick in whole cloves. Put a band of cloth 
tightly round the beef to make it small and round, and fasten 
it closely to keep in shape. Pat a pint of port wine in a round- 
bottomed kettle, put in the beef, cover and let it stew slowly 
three or four hours, adding more wine should it cook away. 
Eemove the cover, put tbe kettle in a hot oven to brown the 
dressing, then trim off the bits of pork, leaving them white. 
Add wine to the gravy in the kettle to make as much as want- 
ed, stir in a glass of currant jelly, also lay spoonfuls of jelly 
over the top of the beef, and garnish the platter with slices of 
lemon and parsley. 

I£ desired, the wine can be omitted in cooking, using water 
instead, adding a cup of grape, currant, or sherry wine, before 
thickening. The wine may be entirely omitted if desired. 

Deviled Ham. 

Use both the lean and fat ham, chopping fine. Season with 
salt, pepper, mixed mustard and a trifle of vinegar. For sand- 
wiches, spread between thin slices of bread and butter. 

French Sandwiches. 

Eemove the skins from sardines, picking them up fine. Add 
to them some finely chopped lean ham, put with them, also, 
some very fine chopped pickles. Mis all well with mayonnaise 
dressing. Spread between thin slices of bread and butter. 



VEGETABLES. 



Green Corn Cakes. 

Six ears of corn grated, one tablespoonful of flour, the yolks 
of two eggs, a little salt Fry in hot butter and lard. 



vegetables. 19 

Carrots a La FrajsCaise. 

Scrape the carrots, cut the small end into two pieces and the 
larger end into eight pieces. Boil in water with a dessert spoon- 
ful of salt and a tablespoonf ul of sugar one hour. Drain on a 
cloth ; put them in a stew-pan with a piece of butter, and shake 
them over the fire until the carrots have nearly absorbed the 
Dutter. Pour in half a pint of new milk and simmer gently 
one hour. Beat the yolks of two eggs, after having taken the 
carrots from the milk and put them in a vegetable dish ; stir 
the eggs into the milk, simmer two minutes and pour over the 
carrots. 

Cooked Celery. 

Cut the celery into pieces half an 'inch long, throw them into 
boiling water with a little salt, and boil three-quarters of an 
hour ; drain off the water and pour on cream if you have it, if 
not, milk enough to cover it. Season with butter, pepper, and 
salt, to taste. It is not necessary to use the choicest pieces of 
celery. 

Turnips. 

Take the flat turnips, pare them, cut them into half-inch 
cubes, throw them into boiling water with a little salt and let 
them boil one and one-half hours. Drain off the water, add 
cream or milk, butter, pepper, and salt, to taste. Only the flat 
turnips are good to cook in this manner. 

Baked Tomatoes. 

Take a baking dish and put first a layer of tomatoes, either 
fresh or canned, a layer of onions sliced thin, a layer of bread 
and butter with pepper and salt, then another layer of toma- 
toes, onions, and so on until the dish is filled. Bake one and 
one-half hours. 

Baked Corn. 

Fill a baking dish with corn, cut or scraped from the cob. 
Cover the corn with milk, season with butter, pepper and salt, 
and bake two hours. 



20 margery daw in the kitchen. 

Parsnips. 

Three medium-sized parsnips boiled until tender, and mash- 
ed. Season with butter, pepper and salt, and stir in a lightly 
beaten egg. Make into flat cakes, and fry brown in a hot greas- 
ed spider. 

Spinach. 

Wash thoroughly and carefully, throwing it into just enough 
salted water to cover it. Boil about a half hour. When ten- 
der, squeeze dry in a clean towel, or colander, season with bat-* 
ter, pepper and salt. Serve with sliced hard boiled eggs over 
the top. A nice salad dressing may be served with it 

Green Pea's. 

Wash the pods, throw them into boiling water, and boil till 
tender, then skim them out and put the peas into the same 
water and boil till tender. Season with butter, pepper, and a 
little salt, with a trifle of sugar. 

Green Corn. 

Remove the leaves and silk. Cook in boiling salted water 
from fifteen to twenty minutes. Serve hot from the kettle, on 
a platter between napkins. 

Cauliflower. 

Eemove the outside leaves, and boil the cauliflower in salted 
water, taking care to remove it as soon as tender, that it may , 
not fall to pieces. Take two tablespoonfula of butter, and when 
hot in the sauce pan, stir in three tablespoonfuls of flour, stir- 
ing constantly until cooked. Add two teacupf uls o£ thin cream, 
seasoned with pepper and salt. Stir it over the fire until per- 
fectly smooth. Pour the sauce over the cauliflower, and' sei-ve; 

Cabbage a la Cauliflower., 

(jut the cabbage fine as for slaw, cover with water in a stev? 
pan, and keep closely covered. When thoroughly cooked, pour 
ofi the water, add a piece of butter with a little salt, one-half ; 



VEGETABLES. 21 

cup of cream, or one cup of milk, let it remain on the range a 
few moments before serving. 

Vegetable Oysters. 

Wash and scrape them well. Cat into small round pieces, boil 
them an hour or until tender in sufficient water to cover them 
thoroughly. Pour off the whole, or a part of the water, as de- 
sired, add cream or milk. Season well with butter, pepper, and 
salt And if desired, thicken with flower well mixed with cold 
water. 

Scalloped Potatoes. 

_) 

Pare the potatoes, cut them in thin slices ; put a layer in a 
pudding dish; sprinkle with flour, pepper, salt, an,d small pieces 
of butter, then another layer of potatoes, flour, pepper, salt and 
butter, and so on until the dish is filled. Pour over all the milk 
• the dish will hold. Bake two hours in a moderate oven. 

Broiled Potatoes. 

Large cold boiled potatoes cut lengthwise in slices a quarter 
of an inch thick, and broiled on the gridiron. Take from the 
fire and place on each a , piece of butter, pepper and salt. Serve 
very hot. 

Potatoes Boiled in Laed. 

Choose v£ry small potatoes, scrape or pare them very smooth, 
so that they will be round ; drop into boiling lard and cook a 
light brown. Serve the same as Saratoga potatoes. 

■ i'li'vC-:. C - Potato Puff. ' J 

Boil the potatoes in salted water, drain off the water and dry 
them a few minutes. Mash them perfectly smooth. To a pint 
of mashed potato put two tablespoonf uls of butter and beat with 
a large fork, until light and creamy ; add the yolks of two eggs, 
a small cup of rich milk, and lastly the whites of two eggs beat- 
en to a froth. Beat each ingredient in before adding the next 
Add more salt if needed ; put in a buttered baking-dish, bake 
in a quick oven until nicely browned. The more thoroughly 



22 MARGERY DAW IX THE KITCHEN. 

it is beaten the better. This same potato is very nice shaped 
in cones and browned in the oven. 

Stl'FFEd Potatoes. 

Talve five large potatoes, and scrape a hole in each ; fill it with 
meat chopped fine, seasoned with butter, pepper, salt, and a 
little chopped onion. Bake in a quick oven. 

Potatoes ix Jackets. 

Select fine large potatoes and bake them ; take from the oven 
while hot, cut an oval piece from one side, remove the inside 
taking care not to tear skins. Put them in a dish, season with 
butter, pepper, salt, and a little cream or milk ; add one or two 
eggs. Beat all thoroughly together with a fork. Fill the skin 
place a small piece of butter on each, return to the oven until 
brown and serve on a platter. 

Stikred Potatoes with Eggs. 

Six or eight cold boiled potatoes chopped fine, heat the sauce 
pan, put into it a piece of butter the size of an egg. When 
melted, stir in the chopped potatoes, stirring and browning them 
well ; then pour in three or four beaten eggs, stirring them well 
through the potatoes for two or three minutes, then serve. 

A Vegetable Shape. 

Boil spinach, carrots and turnips in separate kettles. Drain, 
mash and season the same quantity of each. Take a hot mould 
or vegetable dish well buttered, and put in first a layer of tur- 
nip, then one of carrot, and lastly, one of spinach ; pack well, 
then turn from t e mould on a platter, and serve. 



PICKLES, CATSUPS, SAUCES. 23 



PICKLES, CATSUPS, SAUCES. 



Pickled Cucumbers. 

Wash and wipe the cucumbers and place in a stone jar. To 
one gallon of the best cider vinegar add one teacup of salt, two 
red peppers cut fine, one-fourth pound of white mustard seed, 
one-fourth ounce of ginger root, a piece of alum the size of a 
butternut, one teacupf ul of horse-radish root, not grated. Other 
spices may be added. if desired, Bring the ingredients to a boil, 
pour over the cucumbers, cover closely, and they are finished. 

Geeen Tomato Pickles. 

One peck of green tomatoes, six large onions, a teacupful of 
salt. Put into a jar and let them remain over night. In the 
morning cook them in three pints of vinegar and water twenty 
minutes, and drain. Boil four quarts . of vinegar, one-fourth 
pound of white mustard seed, two green peppers sliced, two 
tablespoonfuls each of allspice, cloves, cinnamon, ginger and 
mustard, and pour hot over the tomatoes. 

, Ghow-Chow. 

Two large heads of cabbage, one-half peck of small onions 
thirty large cucumbers, two heads of cauliflower, ten green pep- 
pers, six red peppers, One pint of grated horse-radish, one-half 
pound of white mustard seed, one ounce of celery seed,- one-half 
teacup of tumerick, two boxes of mustard, one-half pint of salad 
oil. Ghop the cabbage, cut the cucumber in inch square pieces, 
break the cauliflower in pieces, chop the peppers with some of 
the cabbage, as it will prevent the tears of the chopper-from flow- 
ing. Be sure and throw away the seeds. A^d. a teacup of salt and 
pack down in a stone jar. In the morning drain off the brine ; 
take one part of vinegar and two of water, pour on hot, and let 
it stand two days. Drain, add the spices and other ingredients. 



24 MARGERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

Boil six quarts of vinegar with three pounds of sugar and pour 
on scalding water for three mornings; then mix one pound of 
ground mustard with one-half pint of salad oil ; mix thorough- 
ly and add to the chow-chow when cold. 

Eed Cabbage Pickled. 

Slice the cabbage very fine, one head of red cabbage, to two 
or three of white cabbage, mix in a little salt Scald two quarts 
of vinegar, add two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Put into a bag 
one tablespoonful of cloves, one of ground cinnamon, and half 
a teaspoonful of ground black pepper. Scald the spices in the 
vinegar, when cold pour the vinegar over the cabbage in a jar, 
and drop in the bag of spices. Keep the whole well covered 
with vinegai-, putting a plate over to hold it down. 

Chili Sauce. 

Twenty-four ripe tomatoes, four green peppers, four onions, 
two tablespoonfuls of salt, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, four 
cups of vinegar. Peal the tomatoes and slice them, chop the 
peppei-s fine, and if not liked too fiei-y, remove the seeds. Chop 
the onions. Put the ingredients into a porcelain kettle with the 
sugar and vinegar and boil three hours. Bottle and seal. 
(Will mould if exposed to the air.) 

Tomato Catsup. 

Take tomatoes when fully ripe, wash and slice them, put in- 
to a jar in alternate layers of tomatoes and salt Let them stand 
four days, stirring each day to prevent fermentation. On the 
fifth day put into a porcelain kettle, boil twenty-five minutes, 
put them through a colander, then back into the kettle and boil 
until reduced one-half. To each quart add one teaspoonful of 
mace, two of cloves, two of black ^pper, a half teaspoonful of 
cayenne, if liked. Bottle and cork tight 

Pickled Peaches. 

Eight pounds of peaches, four pounds of sugar, one pint of 
vinegar. Rub the peaches with a coarse cloth. Stick two 



PIOKtES, CATSUPS, SAUCES. 25 

whole cloves in each peach. Put the vinegar and sugar with a 
small handful of broken bits of cinnamon, in a porcelain kettle 
upon the range. When the syrup is made put the peaches into 
it, and remove the kettle to the back of the i-ange, and let them 
cook slowly there nearly half a day, do not stir them. Skim 
the peaches carefully out, and put them into a stone jar. If the 
syrup seems thin, boil it until richer and pour it hot over the 
peaches. 

Pickled Cherries. 

Take six pounds of cherries, removing the pits, three pounds 
of sugar, a coffeecupf ul of vinegar, when the syrup is hot, throw 
in the cherries adding a little cloves, and some small pieces of 
cinnamon ; let the whole boil about a half hour, then skim out 
the fruit. If the syrap is not sufficiently rich, boil longer, then 
pour over the cherries and cover. 

Spiced Currants. 

Eight pounds of currants, four pounds of sugar, one coffee- 
cup of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, one of allspice; 
one of mace, one-half tablespoonful of cloves. Put the currants 
sugar and vinegar into the kettle and boil ten minutes. ' Skim 
out the currants, pat in the spice and boil from half to three 
quarters of an hour. Pour over the currants, and put in a jar 
with brandied paper over the top. 

Spiced Plums. 

Eight pounds of- plums, four pounds of sugar, one teaspoon- 
ful of cloves, two of cinnamon, one teacupful of vinegar.' Cook 
until as thick as jelly. • ', ,^' 

Grape Catsup. 

Five pounds of grapes, two and one half pounds of sugar, one 
pint of vinegar, one tablespoonful each of cinnamon, cloves, all- 
spice and pepper, one-half tablespoonful of salt. Boil the grapes 
until soft, then put them through the colander. Put back into 
the kettle with the sugar, vinegar and spices. Boil it until it 
thickens, and bottle. 



26 MAKGERY DAW IX THE KITCHEN. 

OuREANT Catsup. 

Five pounds of currants freed from the stems, two pounds, of 
brown sugar, one pint of vinegar, one tablespoonful each of 
cinnamon and cloves, one teaspoonf ul of salt. Boil one hour. 
Keep in sealed jars in a cool place. 



BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC. 



Graham Gems. 

Two coffeecups Graham flour and one pint of cold water 
stirred well together at night. Next morning add butter the 
size of a large walnut, salt, and two heaping teaspoons of bak- 
ing powder. Put into heated gem irons and bake in a bot oven. 

Graham Gems. 

One cup of Graham flour, one cup of fine flour, two eggs, two 
cups of sweet milk, one-fourth teaspoon of salt. Bake in hot 
gem irons twenty minutes. 

Vanity Puffs. 

One pint and two tablespoonf uls of flour, one pint of milk, two 
eggs well beaten, a little salt. Stir well together and bake in 
cups or patty-pans three quarters of an hour. 

"Waffles. 

One pint of sour milk, two tablespoonf uls of melted butter, 
two eggAeaten separately, one teaspoonful of soda, one pint of 
flour, a little salt. Beat well together and bake. 

Eiohmond Muffins. 

One quart of milk, one pound of flour, one-half cup of yeast, 
three eggs beaten separately, four tablespoonfuls of lard and 
butter mixed. Set to rise over night ; in the morning, let tbem 
stand one hour in the rings before baking. 



bread, biscuit, etc. 27 

Fried Eye Muffins. 

One and one-half cups of rye flour, one and one-half cups of 
wheat flour, one cup of sweet milk, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar,- three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one-half teaspoon- 
f ul of salt Mix the baking powder with the flour and sift into 
the rye ; add sugar and salt. Beat the eggs light, add the milk 
to the eggs and stir into the dry mixture. Drop this batter by 
small spoonfuls into a spider with hot lard, and fry ten or fif- 
teen minutes. 

Muffins. 

Two cups of milk, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one 
egg, two-thirds teaspoonful of salt, one-half cake of yeast. Stir 
in flour until it just drops, not runs, from the spoon. Beat until 
smooth. Let it rise over night and in the morning drop into 
rings carefully. Bake twenty minutes or half an hour. 

Baking Powder Muffins. 

One pint of milk, one quart of sifted flour, three teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, one tablespoonful of melted butter, two eggs 
'beaten very light, a little salt. Bake in rings twenty minutes, 
either on the griddle or in the oven. 

Breakfast Cakes. 

One cup of milk, one pint of flour, three eggs, a piece of but- 
ter the size of an egg, ■ three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Bake twenty minutes, in muffin rings. 

Sally Lunn. 

Three eggs, one-half cup of butter, one cup of swqet milk, 
three cups of flour, twotablespoonfuls of sugar, three teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder. Bake in round loaf.about half an hour. 

Sally Lunn. 

One quart of sweet milk, four .eggs, one-half pound of but- 
ter, one teacup of yea5t, or one yeast cake, one-half, pound of 
sugar, flour enough to make as stiff as bread dough. Mix over 



28 MAEGERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

night. Beat the butter, sugar and eggs light, warm the milk, 
dissolve the yeast cake in warm water, stir the flour into the 
milk until quite stiff, add the yeast, mix in the butter, sugar 
and eggs. Add more flour if necessary, to make as stiff as 
bread dough. Bake for lunch or tea in a round tin. 

Fritters. 

One pint of sweet milk, two eggs beaten very light, one salt- 
spoon of salt, four teacups of flour with two tablespoonfuls of 
baking powder. Drop from a spoon into very hot lard. Serve 
with maple syrup, or with pulverized sugar and wine. 

Parker House. Eolls. 

Into three pints of flour rub one teaspoonful of lard. Make 
■a hole in the flour, and put into it one pint of cold, boiled milk, 
one-half cup of sugar, one-half cup of yeast, a little salt Do 
not stir it. In the morning knead lightly, and let it rise until 
noon, then knead again and make up into long rolls, to rise un- 
til tea-time. Bake in a quick oven twenty minutes. They 
can be rolled long or cut round, spread with butter and lapped 
over if preferred. 

French Rolls. 

Two cups of light dough, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, two 
of melted butter, one egg. Eoll thin, cut round, and lap over. 
Let them rise, and bake in a quick oven. 

Soda Biscuit. 

One quart of flour, a piece of butter the size of an egg, well 
rubbed together ; three teaspoonfuls of baking powder sifted 
into the flour, one and one-half cups of cold milk. Mix quite 
soft, stir all together with a fork ; roll out and bake quickly. 

Crackers. 

Take a piece of bread dough. When light, spread it with 
bits of butter and lard, a sprinkle of salt ; roll and pound well 

— ri.!. i.i>.. — n; :„ o _i -i.!, i . . * , 



BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC. 29 

over with dry flour. Use very little more .shortening, than for 
biscuit. Eoll and pound in flour enough to make them cracker 
like. The more they are pounded the better. Break ofE small 
pieces ; put a pinch pf dry flour in each, and make up into lit- 
tle balls, leaving the dry flour in the center. Eoll out thin and 
large. Mark them with the end of a clock key. Bake in a 
hot oven. 

Graham Crackers. 

One pint of sweet cream, one quart of Graham flour, a little 
salt. Eoll as thin as a wafer, cut in squares and bake in a hot 
oven. 

Boston Brown Bread. 

Two cups of rye flour and one of Indian stirred together. 
Add one-half a cup of molasses, one-half cup of raisins, two 
cups of sour milk, two teaspoonfuls of soda, (sweet milk will 
do with three teaspoonfuls of baking power.) Put the mix- 
ture into a tin pudding mould with a tube in the centre, and 
boil four or five hours. If desired for breakfast, boil the day 
before, leaving it in the tin, and putting it into boiling water to 
heat. 

Steamed Brown Bread. 

One cup of Indian meal, one cup of Graham flour, one cup 
of sour milk, one-half cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of soda 
one saltspoon of salt. Mix the Indian and Graham flour to- 
gether, add the sour milk, molasses and salt. Dissolve the 
soda in a little hot water. Beat all thoroughly together and 
steam in a buttered pan one and one-half hours. 

Johnny Cake. 

One pint of sour milk, or buttermilk, one egg, three table- 
spoonfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of 
soda dissolved in hot water, one tablespoonful of sugar, mix the 
egg, milk and flour, and add enough meal to make a. thick bat- 
ter, and finally add the salt and soda. Beat very rapidly and 
bake quickly and steadily. 



30 margery daw in- the kitchen. 

Southern Corn Pone. 
One quart of milk, one quart of Indian meal, one tablespoon- 
f ul of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, two eggs, three teaspoon- 
f als of baking powder. Sour milk may be used if preferred, 
with two teaspoonfuls of soda. Use the yellow meal and beat 
until put into the oven. 

Corn Dodgers. 

Five tablespoonfuls of Indian meal and one tablespoonful of 
flour mixed together. Mix over nighi with enough boiling 
water to cover. In the morning put in one egg, one teacup of 
milk, a little sugar and salt. Bake in muffin rings on a griddle. 

Green Corn Griddle Cakes. 

Twelve ears of corn grated, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, one tablespoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt Stir 
well together and bake on a hot griddle. They must be well 
cooked. 

Indian Griddle Cakes. 

Scald one pint of Indian meal, do not make it too wet, add 
one coffeecupful of sour milk and a teaspoonful of salt, butter- 
milk is better if you have it ; stir in the milk a teaspoonful of 
soda, add a small cup of flour, and beat well. If the batter 
should be too thick, add more -sour milk. Bake ?i26ll on a hot 
griddle. 

EusK. 

To three cups of bread dough add two eggs beaten separately, 
one cup of fine, white sugar, half a cup of lard and butter mixed. 
Stir and knead well, so the color will be even ; add sufficient 
flour ^o roll out and put in a covered dish to rise. When light, 
roll and cut into cakes a little mbre than an inch thick, and put 
in the pan to rise. It will take much longer than biscuit, and 
they must be very light. Bake, and glaze the top with yolk of 
egg and molasses mixed. 



PIES. 81 



PIES 



Pie Crust. 

One cofEeecup of butter, one of lard, one of water and five of 
flour. Cut the shortening into the flour with a knife, have the 
water as cold as possible and mix quickly. Take a new slice 
of paste each time for the top crust, using the trimmings for 
under crust. This will make four pies. 

Puff Paste. 

One pound of flour, one pound of butter, yolks of two eggs. 
Prepare the butter by washing in several waters, and then press- 
ing in a soft cloth. Break or cut a few bits lightly into the 
flour ; do not rub it in ; mix with the egg and water into a 
smooth dough. Turn this out upon the board, roll into a sheet 
and put into the middle of this, the rest of the butter shaped 
into a somewhat flattened ball and slightly floured. Fold the 
paste evenly over this ball of butter and roll out. Cut the sheet 
into quarters and pile one upon another and roll out again. 
Repeat this process until you have^iveri the paste five or six 
turns, as it% called, when it will be ready for use. In making 
a smaller quantity as many turns will not be required. In sum- 
mer it will be found necessary to use ice freely, in order to be 
successful in making this paste. Harden the butter 'before be- 
ginning to make it and cool the paste upon ice between the 
turns. A marble slab is desirable for a moulding board. The 
paste should be baked in a quick oven, and a piece one-fourth 
of an inch in thickness should rise in baking to two inches, and 
should be a mere puff of flakes. 

Cream Pie. 

One pint of cream, yoll^ of three eggs, six to eight table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of butter, one small tea- 



32 



MARGERY D^W IN THE KITCHEN. 



spooniul of corn-Starch, whites of five eggs, and five dessert 
spoonfuls of pulverized sugar for meringue. Vanilla flavoring. 
Stir butter and sugar together as for cake ; beat the corn-starch 
into the yolks of the eggs until perfectly smooth ; then stir 
these two compounds together, add one teaspoonful of vanilla, 
and lastly put in the cream, a little at a time, stirring well be- 
tween. Fill a shell of puff paste and bake half an hour, or un- 
til set, when cover with the meringue and return to the, oven 
to bake a fawn color. The recipe for this pie, both paste and 
filling, is very choice. 

Grant's Lemon Pie. 

The juice and grated rind of two lemons, one large cup of 

sugar, one cup of raisins seeded and chopped, two eggs beaten 

separately, two tablespoonfuls of grated cocoanut or cracker if 

preferred, three tablespoonfuls of water. Bake with two crusts. 

• 

Lemon Pie. 

Two lemons, one large cup of sugar, three eggs, one table- 
spoonful of corn-starch, one cup of cold water. Grate the rind, 
squeeze the juice and put the lemon skins in ' the cold water; 
boil to extract all the juice. Squeeze out the skins and while 
boiling add the starch, dissolved in cold water. Take from the 
fire and while hot add the yolks of the eggs, beaten light, with 
the sugar. Bake with Sne crust Beat the wl^es to a stiff 
froth, add two tablespoonfuls of sugar and spread on the pie 
when taken from the oven. Put back in the oven until slight- 
ly brown. 

Marlborough or Apple Custard Pie. 

One pint (ft tart apples, stewed and put through the colan- 
der, two eggs beaten light, with orte cup of sugar, (if the apples * 
ai-e very tart naore sugar must be added, ) one tablespoonf ul of 
butter, nutmeg to taste, the juice and rind of one lemon. Bake 
with one crust. 

® Cocoanut Pie. 

Make a nice custard of four eggs to a quart of milk and 
sweeten to taste. Bake with uaJ?r crust only. When baked 



PIES. 33, 

put on a frosting made of the whites of four eggs and four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and return to the oven until a light 
brown. While hot sprinkle over it fresh grated cocoanut. 

Mince Pie. 

Two bowls of meat chopped fine, one bowl of chopped suet, 
four bowls of apples, three and one-half pounds of raisins and 
currants seeded, one-half pound of citron, one dessertspoonful 
of cloves, four tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, one coffeecup of 
molasses, two bowls of sugar, a little salt, one pint of brandy, 
( less will do. ) Mix with boiled cider, then cook ten or fifteen 
minutes. 

Fried Apple Pies. 

One cup of sugar, one cbffeecup of sweet milk, three table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter, two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one egg, a little nutmeg. Add flour enough to roll out. 
Have ready, dried, sour apples, stewed and seasoned, make into 
small turnovers, using the apples hot. Fry in hot lard a.s 
doughnuts. > 

Aunt Naomi's Cream Pie. 

Two eggs, a little salt, and one cup of maple sugar, grated and 
stirred together. Then add as much sweet cream as jour pie 
dish, lined with rich pastry, will hold. 

Pie-Plant Pie. 

Line your pie plate with pie crust, cut fresh pie-plant into 
smaU pieces, filling the dish very full, heaping it up as it shrinks 
in cooking. Lay in small pieces of butter, one coffeecup of 
sugar, dredge a little flour over the whole, and cover wjth an 
upper crust. ' To keep the juice in the pie where it belongs, 
take a strip of cotton cloth one inch wide, and long enough 
to go round the pie and lap, wet this cloth in cold water and 
lay it around the edge of the pie, ha"lf on the crust and half on 
the plate, press it gentlj- on the crust and on the plate. When 
the pie is taken from the oven, remove the cloth.. This will' 
apply to any juicy pie. 

3 



34' maegeey daw in the kitchen. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

One pint of stewed pumpkin, two or more eggs, sweeten with- 
molasses and sugar to taste, one pint of rich millc, or cream, 
which is better. A little salt, season -with cinnamon or nutmeg 
and ginger also if liked, stir well together and bake with one 
crust only, in a deep pie dish, and in a quick. oven. 

Almond Cheese Cakes. • 

Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, add one-quarter 
of a pound of sugar beaten lightly in. The juice of half a 
lemon, and the grated I'ind of a whole lemon. Blanch one-half 
pound of almonds, chop them very fine and stir into the above 
mixture. Line patty-pans with puff paste, or rich piecrust, and 
put into each, one or two spootifuls of the mixture. Bake in a 
moderate oven. Serve on a napkin on a platter. 

Cheese Cakes. 

Eoll out some pastry very thin, cut it into pieces six inches 
long and four inches wide. Spread with quince, strawberry or 
other jam ;..roll it over and over and bake quickly. 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS. 



X Favokite Pudding. 

OnQfcup of sugar, one cup of milk, one egg, two tablespoonf uls 
of melted butter, two cups of flour, two teaspoon fuls of baking 
powder; flavor with nutmeg. Put fruit, oranges, peaches, 
cherries, or any preserves in the bottom of a pudding dish, an 
inch or more deep, then pour the mixture on top and bake. 
Turn from the dish and serve with fruit on top. Serve with 
sauce. ^eXtoi^ Viritic . 



puddings. and desserts. 35 

)( Sponge Pudding. 

One pint of sweet milk, one-half cup of sugar, one-half cup of 
flour, one-half cup pf butter, five eggs. Wet the flour with 
part of the milk, then cook it in all the milk ten minutes ; add 
the butter and sugar while hot. When cool add the yolks of 
five eggs well beaten, then add the beaten whites and stir thor- 
oughly. Bake in a two quart basin, set in a pan of hot water, 
half an hour. Serve with butter and sugar sauce. 

Pi-UM Charlotte. 

Take fresh plums if in season ; if not, one quart of canned 
plums. Put them in a pan on the range ; when hot add sugar 
to make them sweet and rich. Cut three or four slices of hght 
bread, trim off the crust and soak in the juice one slice at a 
time. Take a dish or mould, first put in some of the plum, 
then a slice of the -bread that has been soaked in the juice; then 
some of the plum, then, another slice of the bread until all js 
used. If any juice remains pour it over the whole and set it 
aside in a cool place. It is vvell to let it stand until the li^xj, 
da.}', as it is to be eaten cold. Turn from the mould on to a 
platter and serve with cream. It is very nice without cream. 

Frenqh Custard. ^ 

Scald one quart of milk, add one-half cup of sugar, a pinch of 
salt ; beat well the yolks of four eggs, stir gradually in and just 
allow it to thicken. Strain, and flavor when cold. Beat the 
whites to a stiff froth. Sweeten or not, as preferred. To make 
quince custard beat quince jelly with, the whites of the eggs. 
Other jellies may be used in the same manner. Serve in a 
glass dish. The whites may be cooked as in floating island if 
preferred., 

Fig Pudding. 

One-half ppund of butter, one-half pound of figs, cut small, 
one-half pound of, bread crumbs, one-half pound of sugar, four 
eggs, a little grated nutmeg. Put the butter and figs in a saute 



36 MARGERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

pan and simmer fifteen minutes. Crumb the bread fine, and 
mix it with the sugar, eggs and nutmeg, in a basin, and pour 
the butter and figs over them. When lukewarm mix all to- 
gether. Butter a pudding mould and steam three hours. Serve 
with any nice hot sauce. 

English Plum Pudding. 

One pound o£ bread crumbs, one pound of sugar, one pound 
of flour, one-half pound of suet, two pounds of raisins, two 
pounds of currants, ten eggs, a little salt, one tablespoonful each 
of cinnamon and mace, one-half teaspoonful of cloves and all- 
spice each, one nutmeg, one-half pound of citron. (Almonds 
may be added if desired.) One wineglass of wine, one wineglass 
of brandy. Crumb the bread fine, (stale baker's bread is best) 
add the sugar and suet, beat the eggs light and add with the 
rest of the ingredients. Rub the fruit in flour, mix well together 
and steam three hours in a pudding form. Blanched almonds 
look very handsome stuck all over the outside of the pudding. 
Just before serving, at the dining room door, pour over it 
some brandy and set it on fire. Alcohol is not so likely to go 
out while carrying, as brandy, and some prefer it on that ac- 
count. 

■'* SAUCE. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one egg, one-half 
cup of wine or brandy. Beat the butter and sugar together 
with a little hot water to make it pasty, add the egg, beaten 
separately and light. Cook in boiling water, stirring all the 
time. Just as taken from the fire add the wine or brand}-. If 
made right it will be white and just the right consistency. 

Saratoga Pudding. 

Pour tablespoonfuls of corn-starch, one quart of cold milk, 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar, four eggs. Mix the corn-starch in 
cold milk, stir until it boils, when cool add the sugar and the 
eggs, the whites and voiles beaten separately. Bake in a pud- 
ding dish placed in a pan of hot water, about half an hour. 
This may be steamed if preferred. : 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS. 37 



SAUCE. 




One cup of sugar, one-half cup of biMpJ^one glass of wine, 
the yolks of two eggs. Cream the buttJI'and sugar, add the 
eggs and half the wine. Put the dish in^^iling water, stir ten 
minutes, add the rest of the wine and sei^P 

Margie's Brown Betty. 

One cup of bread crumbs, two cups of chopped tart apples, 
one-half cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of cinnamon,, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter. Butter a pudding dish, put a layer of 
bread crum<bs in the bottom, then a layer of chopped apples 
with a sprinkle of sugar, cinnamon and small pieces of butter, 
then a layer of bread crumbs, and so on until the dish is full, 
having bread crumbs for the top. Cover the dish with a pan, 
bake three-quarters of an hour, then uncover and brown. Serve 
with sugar and cream, or butter and sugar. A particularly 
nice dish for a nursery dinner. 

Green Corn Pudding. 

Two dozen ears of corn, one quart of milk, four eggs, one 
teas|)oonful ot^^alt, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful of flour, grate the corn, add the milk, eggs, salt and sugar. 
If the corn is young, add one or two tablespoonfuls of flour. 
Bake in a greased pan two houi's, and if the quantity is greatly 
increased, three hours. Bake moderately. 

Grandma's Baked Indian Pudding. 

One quart of milk, seven tablespoonfuls of Indian meal, one 
cup of molasses, one-half teaspoonful of salt. Put the milk in a 
kettle ; when scalding hot stir in the meal which has been wet 
with a little cold milk. Take from the stove and add the mo- 
lasses, the salt and half a cup of cold milk. Two tablespoonfuls 
of chopped suet makes it richer. Bake two hours in a moder- 
ate oven. 

Katie's Cup Custards. 

One quart of milk, the yolks of eleven eggs, one large cup of 
sugar, a pinch of salt, nutuaeg to taste. Scald the milk one 



'^ 



38 ilABGEBr DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

hour, then measuJe. m.dd the sugar, the eggs well beaten, salt 
and nutmeg. Pcfri^ cu.stard cups and bake in a dripping 
pan iilled with he! \^er in a moderate oven, about half an 
hour. It is well tljKike these on the same day with iVngel's 

sHoiED Graham Pudding. 

Two cups of Graham flour, one cup of milk, one cup of mo- 
lasses, one cnp of raisins, one egg, one teaspoonf ul of soda, one- 
half teaspoonful of cloves and cinnamon each, a little nutmeg, a 
pinch of salt. Put the flour in a basin, then^ add all the other 
ingredients. Mix thoroughlj. Flour the raisins, put the mix- 
ture into a greased pan and set in a steamer and steam three 
hours. (A very excellent pudding.) 

SAUCE. 

One cup of si5gar, one-half cup of butter, one glass of wine. 
Stir well together and boil fifteen minutes in a farina kettle. 

Batter Pudding. 

One quart of milk, four eggs, six tablespoonfuls of flour, a 
pinch of salt. Scald the milk, beat the eggs Ijght, and stir iu 
the flour with the egg, then into the milk. Stir thoroughly. ' 
Bake half an hour. When in the oven ten minutes stir from 
the bottom with a spoon, and it will bake more evenly. Serve 
with either hot or cold sa^ice. 

Cottage Pudding. 

V 

One cup of sugar, one cup of milk, three tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, one egg, one pint of flour, three teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder sifted thoroughly into the flour. Cream the 
butter, add the sugar, and beat light. Add the beaten egg, then 
the milk, lastly the flour. Bake in a loaf in a buttered tin. 

SAUCE. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup>)f butter, one-half cup of wine, 
one e^g. Cream the butter, add the sugar and egg, and beat verv 
light. > Lastly stir in the wine, hot. 

% t 

f 



puddings and desserts. 39 

Gingerbread Pudding. 

One and one-half cup.s of molas.ses, one-half cup of melted 
butter, one-half cup of boiling water, one and one-half cups of 
flour, two teaspoonfuls of ginger, one tea.spoonful of cinnamon, 
t<a» teaspoonf uljl of soda dissolved in the hot water. Stir the mo- 
lasses, butter and water together ; add the cinnamon and gin- 
ger, and lastly the flour. . Serve with the cottage pudding sauce. 

Tapiooa. Pudding. 

Four tablespoon"fuls of tapioca, one quart of rich milk, one 
cup of sugar, one teaspoon fal of vanilla, four eggs. Soak the 
tapioca all night in milk. In the morning add the sugar and 
the beaten yolks. Heat the above ingredients together scalding 
hot, remove from the range, add the whites beaten to a stiff 
froth, and the vanilla. Bake like a custard, about thirty min- 
utes. To be eaten either liot or cold. 

Charlotte Eusse Pudding. 

Two g,nd one-half ounces of arrow-root or vermicelli, one 
quart of milk, eight eggs,^teii ounces of white sugar, a piece of 
butter the ^e -gf a walnut, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla, one 
wineglass of brandy or sherry. Boil the arrow-root or vermi- 
^ celli in the milk, add the butter, beaten yolks of the eggs, the 
sugar, vanilla, and the brandy or wine. Beat the whites to a 
stiff froth and add just before baking. This is best eaten cold, 
and if successfully made is very nice. 

Peach Tapioca Pudding. 

One dozen peaches, one cup of tapioca, one cup of white su- 
gar. Soak the tapioca in cold water three hours. Put it on the 
stove until it boils. Add the sugar. Pare and slice the 
peaches, sprinkle with sugar and pour the tapioca over them. 
Bake slowly one hour. Serve with cream. 

QuEENf'bF Puddings. 

One pint of bread crumbs, one quart of milk, one cup of su- 
gar, four eggS, one lemon, butter the size of an egg. Throw, the 



40y ■ MARGERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

bread crumbs into the milk, add tlie sugar, then the beaten 
yolks of the eggs, the grated rind of the lemon, and the butter 
cut into small bits. Bake in a pudding dish about an hour, 
taking care that it does not become watery. Beat the whites of 
the eggs to a stiff froth, add one-half cup of sugar, and the juice 
of the lemon. Put jam or jelly on top of the pudding, or not, 
as you prefer. Spread the meringue over it and set it back in 
the oven until slightly brown. 

Her Majesty's Pudding. 

One-.third of a package of gelatine, yolks of four eggs, one 
quart of sweet milk, one cup of sugar, one teaspoonf ul of vanilla. 
Soali the gelatine in one-half cup of cold water one hour. Beat 
the yolks of the eggs light with the sugar, stir them into the 
milk, letting it boil about three minutes, stirring constantly, 
taking care that it does not curdle. Add the gelatine and va- 
nilla, strain into moulds, and set aside to cool. 

sauce. 

Whites of three eggs, four tablespoonfuls of cream, three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Beat the whites to'^a sti^ froth, whip 
the cream light, add the whites of the eggs and the sugar and 
flavor with vanilla to taste, or brandy, if preferred. 

Steamed Apple Pudding. 

Pare, quarter, and take the cores from tart apples, enough to 
fill a pudding dish, rub a piece of butter the size of an egg into 
one pint of flour in which are sifted two teaspoonfuls' of baking 
powder. Mix with milk with the spoon, about the consistency 
of soda biscuit. Put the dish in a steamer over a kettle of 
boiling water and steam two hours. This is a general favorite 
surpassing the old-fashioned dumpling. 

SAUCE. , 

Two tablespoonfuls of flour, one cup of sugai-, a little nutmeg, 
a tajalespoonful of butter. Mix these ingredients together with 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS. ' 41 ' 

one tablespoonful of cold water. Put into a saucepan and pour 
on slowly a little less than a pint of boiling water. 

Tekla's Pudding, 

Twelve eggs, twelve oujicSs of sugar, one lemon, one glass of 
rum or brandy, beat the yolks with the sugar, add the rum or 
brandy, then the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Bake quickly, 
and serve immediately. ; ' _ ' . 

Chocolate Pudding. 

One quart of milk, three ouncSs of grated phocolate, six eggs, 
one cup of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla. Boil one quart 
of riiilk with t1:e chocolate. "When dissolved, take from the fire 
•and stir in the beaten yolks of six eggs. Add the- sugar and 
vanilla. Bake like a custard, and . when cold frost it with- the 
whites. To .be eaten, cold. 

EoYAL Diplomatic Pudding.— Miss Paeloa. 

• Soak one-half box of gelatine in half a cupof cold water one 
ox two hours. Pour on this two-thirds of a -pint of boiling - 
water. Add the juice of one lembp, one cup of sugar, one-half 
.pint of wine; stir and strain. Have, two moulds, one holding 
two quarts and the Other one quart. Put a layer of jelly in the . 
large mould and set on ice. 'When cold Jay on the top candied 
cherries cut in two, or other candied fruit, and put in a few 
spoonfuls of jelly, not hot, to hold the cherries, and then enough- , 
to cover them. When the jelly is perfectly • hard set the small 
TQOuld in the center of tfee large one on'*the jelly, and fill the""* 
space around it with jelly. Fill the small- mould with ice arid 
set them both in a basin of ice. When the jelly Js hard I'emove 
.the ice from the small mould, 'fill it with warm water, .and lift it 
out carefully. The vacant- space is to I5e filled- with a custard • 
made as follows: The yolks of five egg?:, one-half cup of sugar, 
two tablespoonfuls of wine, one teaspoonful of vanilla, one-half 
box of gelatine soaked in' one-half cup of cold water, one scant 
cup of milk. Put, the milk to boil, add- the gelatine, the eggs 
and the sugar,' beaten tc-gether. Strain and add the wine and 



42 MARGERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

vanilla. When the custard begins to thicken add one-half pint 
of cream whipped to a stiff froth ; pour the custard into the 
space mentioned and let it harden. Tarn the pudding out of 
the mould and serve with soft custard or German sauce. 

German Sauce. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of water, one tablespoonful of but- 
ter, three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of brandy, or one teaspoonful 
of any flavoring extract you wish. Put the sugar and water in 
a saucepan and boil fifteen minutes. Beat the yolks of the eggs 
and stir into the boiling syrup. Put the basin into another of 
hot water until it begins to thicken. Then add the butter, the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and the brandy. Stir 
one minute longer and serve. 

No-Name Pudding. 

One pint of flour, one-half cup of sugar, three tablespoonfuls 
of melted' butter, one-half pint of sweet milk, one egg, three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. Beat the butter, sugar and egg 
together until light Add the milk, and lastly the flour with 
the baking powder. Steam one and one-half hours. 

Harvard Sauce. 

Oue cup of sugar, two eggs, one-half glass of wine or one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, two tablespoonfuls of warm milk. Beat the 
yolks and sugar together, add the whites beaten to a stiff froth, 
then the wine or vanilla. When all is beaten thoroughly to- 
gether, add the warm milk. 

Benara Buns. 

Four eggs, one cup of butter, one and three-fourths cups of 
sugar, one cup of milk, three and one-half cups of flour. Cream 
the butter, stir in the sugar, beat till light ; add beaten eggs, the 
milk, lastly the flour with three teaspoonfuls of baking 'powder. 
Bake these buns in deep palty-pans. When done take fi-om 
the tins, let them cool. When cold turn upside down on a 



PUDDINGS AND DESSEKTS. 43 

platter, and with a teaspoon make a cavity in the bottom of 
each sufficiently large to contain a teaspoonful of raspbeny jam. 
Pour over these three pints of cream whijaped very light and 
sweetened to taste. Add a little vanilla. These are particularly 
nice for tea. 

Velvet Cream. 

One-half package of gelatine, one cup of granulated sugar, 
one large cup of sherry wine, one generous pint of rich, sweet 
cream. Soak the gelatine in one cup of cold water one hour. 
Put the.sqgar and wine on the soaked gelatine. Cover closely 
and leave for an hour. Then put the bowl containing them in- 
to a basin of hot water, stirring occasionally until the gelatine 
is dissolved, when strain and set aside to cool. Keep this cov- 
ered all the time to retain the flavor of the wine. Now whip 
the cream to a stiff froth, and as the gelatine begins to congeal, 
beat it, a spoonful at a time, into the whipped cream. Beat 
thoroughly when all together and turn iiito a mould wet with 
cold water, and set upon ice until wanted. 

A Beautiful Dessert. 

Five small tablespoonfuls of corn-starch, four tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, four tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, one quart of 
milk. Put the milk on the stove, and while it is heating mix 
the rest of the ingredients in a bowl with a little cold milk. 
Then pour into the hot milk and boil a few moments until it 
thickens. Pour into a mould and set aside to cool. Make a 
boiled custard of one quart of milk, five eggs, leaving out the 
whites of two, two tablespoonfuls of sugar. When the pudding 
is cold, turn it into a. shallow glass dish or platter and pour the 
custard, which must be cold, around it, leaving the pudding 
two or three inches out of the custard. Take the whites of the 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth, with two tablespoonfuls of pulver- 
ized sugar. Drop from a spoon, about the size of kisses, over 
the pudding and custard. Part of the meringue can be colored 
with a little cochineal syrup, and a small drop put on each kiss. 



44 MAEGEEY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

TiPSEY Cake. 

One bar of sponge cake, one-half cup of wine, one pint of 
boiled custard, one pound of almonds. Place the sponge cake 
on a platter, stick the almonds in rows on the top and sides of 
the cake, pour the wine over it, and just before serving, pour 
over all, the boiled custard. 

Boiled Custard. 

One quart of milk, four eggs, a small cup of sugar, lemon or ■ 

vanilla extract. Put the milk on to scald, beat the eggs and 

sugar together and stir into the scalding milk, stirring all^the 

time until it thickens. Do not cook too long, or it will curdle. 

When cool, flavor with lemon or vanilla to taste, or equal parts 

of each. 

Roman Ckeam. 

One-half box of gelantine, one-lialf glass of milk, three table- 
spooqfuls of sugar, (more if desired), one gill of wine, one pint 
of cream, whites of two eggs, vanilla to taste. Soak the gela- 
tine in the milk half an hour, then put the di.sh in which it has 
been soaked into a basin of hot water on the stove until it is 
entirely dissolved ; whip the ci-eam light, add the sugar and 
vanilla, then the whites beaten to a stiff froth ; stir the gelatine 
into the cream, sugar, etc., slowly, and beat it well. Pour it 
into moulds and set it on ice to harden. 

Pbussian Cream. 

One-half box of gelatine, one cup of sugar, three eggs, one 
and . one-half pints of milk, (part cream is an improvement). 
Scald the milk in a farina kettle. Beat the yolks and sugar 
light, stir into the milk, then add the gelatine, which has been 
soaked in some of the cold milk ; stir constantly until it thick- 
ens. Take from the stove, stir in the beaten whites, and pour 
into a mould. 

Coffee Blanc-Mange. 

One quart of cream, (part milk can be used) one-half package 
of gelatine, one-half cup of strong coffee, one cup of sugar. Soak 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS. 45 

the gelatine one hour in one-half cup of cold water, acid the cof- 
fee, hot, then the sugar ; set it on the range until the gelatine is 
thoroughly dissolved ; set it aside until pai-tly cold ; whip the 
cream and' stir it gradually into the mixture. Pour into moulds 
and set aside to harden. 

Potato Pudding. 

Three boiled potatoes, five eggs, one pint of milk or cream, 
butter the size of an egg, two tablespoonfuls of wine, sugar to 
taste. Eub the potatoes while hot through a sieve, add the but- 
ter, next the eggs well beaten, the wine and sugar to sweeten 
to taste. Serve hot without sauce. 

Strawberry CnARLOTTE. 

One quart of milk, yolks of six eggs, three quarters of a -cup 
of sugar, flavor to taste. Scald the milk, beat the eggs and su- 
gar and stir into the milk, and cook until it thickens, taking 
care that it does not crack. Place slices of sponge cake in a 
glass dish, then a layer of ripe strawberries sprinkled with su- 
gar ; (a little wine poured on the cake is an improvement, but 
not necessary) another layer of cake, then another of berries with 
sugar. When the custard is cold, pour it over !he cake and 
berries. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add sugar 
'and put over the to}) and decorate with ripe strawberries. 

Charlotte Eusse. 

The whites of three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, one- 
half pint of cream, one glass of sherry wine. Beat the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth, add three tablespoonfuls of sugar 
Beat the cream stiff with a wheel-egg-beater and sweeten to 
taste. ; Then beat the cream and egg together, adding the wine 
to flavor. Bake two loaves of sponge cake in jelly cake tins 
havirE^g one twice as thick as the other, using the thin cake for 
'the bottom of the Charlotte Eusse ; cut a circle an inch wide 
from the outside of the thick cake, and place upon the other 
cake- then fill with the above mixture. Diamond shapes cut 



46 MARGERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN'. 

from the center taken out, will ornament the white filling hand- 
somely. 

Orange Pudding. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of rolled crackers, two eggs, 
one-half tablespoonf ul of butter, one orange, one quart of milk ; 
grate the rind and squeeze the juice. Bake like a custard, and 
serve cold. 

Orange Pudding. 

Slice four sweet oranges, having previously pared them, one 
quart of milk, one cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of corn- 
starch, and the yolks of three eggs. Scald the milk, and just 
as it comes to boiling, add the corn-starch mixed in a little cold 
milk, and the sugar and eggs thoroughly beaten ; boil until well 
thickened. When cold, pour over the sliced oranges. Make a 
meringue of the whites of three eggs, and a sinall cup of sugar. 
Spread on the pudding, and ornament with sliced oranges. 

Philadelphia Pudding. 

One quart of milk, twenty sweet almonds, ten bitter almonds, 
five tablespoonfuls of rice flour, sweetened to taste. Blanch the 
almonds and chop quite fine, put them into the milk and let it 
just boil, then stir in the rice flour mixed in a little cold milk, 
and let it boil hard two or three minutes. Pour into a pudding 
li^ and let it get perfectly cold. Beat the whites of three eggs 
to* stiff froth, and drop on the top in pieces the size of an egg, 
and set in the oven until slightly brown. Serve with sugar and 
cream. 

Apple Sago Pudding. 

Pare and core about six tart apples, and place them in a pud- 
ding dish, fill the center of the apples with sugar, grate the rihd 
of one lemon over them, adding a few thin slices of the lemon. 
Pour one quart of bo^iUng water over one teacup of sago, and 
let it stand an hour, then pour over the apples, and bake about 
one hour slowly. Serve with sugar and ci-eam. 



puddings and dessekts. 47 

Apple Tapioca Pudding. 

Six tart apples, one cup of tapioca, one and one-half cups 
of tepid water, one large cup of sugar ; pare and core the apples, 
cut them in quarters, slice them, or leave them whole, as pre- 
ferred. Wash the tapiocafand ^k three hours in the tepid 
water, stir the s.ugar with the tapioca and pour over the apples, 
which have been put into a greased pudding dish. Bake about 
two hours. Serve with cream ; sauce is not necessary. 

Hasty Pudding. 

Seven teacups of milk, three eggs, six tablespoonfuls of flour, 
and a little salt. Put six cups of milk in a kettle on the range, 
beat three eggs well, and stir into one cup of cold milk, add the 
■ flour and salt, beat well together and stir into the milk on the 
TOnge just as it begins to boil ; boil five minutes, taking great 
care lest it scorch. Pour into greased cups to mould. To be 
eaten eith^v warm df cold, with sugar and cream. 

Corn-Starch Pudding. 
One quart of milk, four tablespoonfuls of corn-starch, two 
eggs, a pinch of salt. Let the milk come to a boil. Stir in a 
small cup of sugar, and the corn-starch well mixed in a httle 
cold milk, stir in two well beaten eggs. Flavor with lemon or 
vanilla to taste, pour into moulds, and serve with cream, which 
is improved by being whipped. 

One-K&g Bread Pudding. 
One egg, two teaspoonfuls of flour, three of brown sugar, one 
pint of rnilk, a little salt, slices of bread and butter. Place 
some very thin slices of bread and butter in a small pudding 
dish until three parts full. Break the egg into a bavsin, beat 
with it the sugar, add the flour, and pour slowly into a pint of 
milk, add a little salt. Pour this custard over the bread, and 
bake about half an hour. A handful of currants may be added. 

D^LMONico Pudding. 
One quart of milk, four eggs, (reserving the whites of three,) 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of corn-starch, 



4S MARGEKY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

one cup of concentrated cocoanut, a little salt. Put the milk in a 
basin over boiling water to scald; mix the corn-starch in a little 
cold milk ; beat the eggs and sugar and stir all into the boiliog_ 
milk, add the cocoanut, and pour the whole into a pudding 
dish. Whip the whites of the thr|e eggs very stiff, add three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, flavft- to taste. Spread this meringue 
over the pudding, and brown slightly. Serve either hot or 
cold. 

Lemon Pudding. 

Three rounding tablespoonfuls of corn-starch, mix smoothly 
in a little cold water. Add to this by degrees three coffeecups 
^'of boiling water, two teacups of sugar, the juice and grated rind 
' of two lemons, one teaspoonful of butter, a pinch of salt, three 
beaten eggs. Stir all together on the range until it thickens^ 
butter a puddin^dish, pour the mixture in, and bake twenty 
minutes in a quick oven. The whites of two mor% eggs beaten 
stiff, with a little sugar, spread over the pudding, and return to 
, the oven till slightly brown. This is better made the day be- 
fore using, as it is to be eaten cold. One-half of this recipe 
made with two eggs makes a good sized pudding. 

MocE Plum Pudding. 

One pint of fine bread crumbs, (stale baker's bread is the 
best,) one cup of raisins seeded and chopped, one cup of molas- 
ses, add spices if desired. Mix all well together and steam three 
hours. ^ 

SAUCE. I 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter beaten to a cream, 
and steam over the tea-ljettle, two tablespoonfuls of cream added 
and wine to taste, stirring all the time 

German PuEFri. 

Two eggs, the whites and yolks beaten separately, two cups 

of milk, two cups of flour, a little salt. Stir the yolks in the 

.milk. i\dd the whites and flour alternately. Heat the gem 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS. 49 

irons or patty pans, before putting in the mixture. Serve hot 
with wine sauce. 

Maple Sugae Sauce. 

One-half cup of butter, one tablespoonful of flour well rubbed 
into the butter. Add one cup of maple sugar, well stirred in, 
pour into a dish, set on the rai^ge and pour on boiling water 
until thin enough.. Either white or brown sugar can be used 
flavored with wine or nutmeg. 

Wine Sauce. 

One cup of powdered sugar and one tablespoonful of butter, 
beaten to cream. Add one teacup of boiling water, and let it 
stand over boiling water, ten minutes. Add a wineglass of 
sherry wine. 

Every Day Pudding Sauce. 

Two cups of boiling water, put in a basin with two- thirds of 
-a cup of white sugar, one heaping teaspoonful of corn-starch, 
dissolved in cold water and stirred in : boil the whole five min- 
utes, stirring frequently, remove from the range, allow it to cool 
slightly, and stir in thoroughly two well beaten eggs. Flavor 
tolastewith wine, vanilla, or nutmeg. 

Vanilla Sauce. 

One-half cup of powdered sugar, the whites of two eggs, and 
yolks of one egg, one teaspoonful of vanilla, three tablespdon- 
fuls of milk. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and beat in the 
sugar,: tlfen the yolk of the egg, and add the vanilla. Serve im- 
mediately. This sauce is for light puddings. 

Lemon Sauce. 

•'» One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one teaspoonful of 
corn-starch, and the yolks of two eggs, (or one egg). Beat the- 
egg and sugar, add the juice and grated rin4 of one lemon, stir' 
into the whole three gills of boiling water, stirring constantly 
until it thickens. Do not let it boil. 



50:,;' margery daw ix the kitchen. 

Cream Sauce. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one egg, one table- ^ 
spoonful of flour. Beat all together to a cream, add either va- 
nilla or lemon flavoring. Set it over boiling water, stirring in 
about a pint of boiling milk ; do not stop stirring, and serve 
when as thick as rich cream. 

Fairy" -Butter. 

One cup of white sugar, one-half cup of i)utter, the white of 
one egg, beat all together until very light and creamy. Flavor 
with brandy, wine, or nutmeg. 



SALADS. 



Salad Dressing; 

Beat the raw yolks of three eggs with one tablespoonful of 
sugar, add one-half teaspoonful t)f mustai^, one tablespoonful of 
butter, one teaspoonful of salt, and 'one tumbler of vinegar. 
Set the ingredients in a basin on the range, stirring constantly 
until it thickens. Add one tablespoonful of sweet cream if you ^ 
hgve it. ' 

Salad Dressing. 

» 

Yolks of two raw eggs, one tablespoonful of mustard, two 
teaspoonfuls of salt, one teaspoonful of sugai-, one-half teaspoon- 
ful white pepper, one bottle salad oil, one-half cup of vinegar. 
Mix the eggs, spices, salt, and sugar, on a platter and then stir 
with a fork, beginning with the oil, a few drops at a time, up^y 
thick, then vinegar in the same way, then alternate iVinegar and 
oil ; the oil thickens, the vinegar thins ; drop the oil faster as 
you go on. It will be whiter if most of the vinegar is stirred in 
at the last very rapidly. This is delicious, and good for chick- 



SALADS. 51 

en, lobster or other salads. ( Some prefer to mix in a bowl with 
a wheel egg beater.) 

Grand Union Mayonnaise DrSssing. 

Pour into a stew pan one tablespoonful of oil, two tablespoon- 
f als of flour wet with a little cold water, and four tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar, pour in about one-half gill of boiling, water and stir 
until it boils and looks clear like starch, place this upon the ice 
to cool. Take the yolks of four raw eggs, one large teaspoon - 
ful of salt, one pint bottle of oil, mix thoroughly together. 
When the mixture placed upon the ice is cold, mix all together, 
adding two teaspoonfuls of made mustard, one teaspoonful of 
fine sugar, and cayenne pepper to suit taste ; mix all together 
well, and add to the salad. This makes dressing enough for 
four chickens. 

Cabbage Salad. 

One quart of cabbage chopped fine. One small tumbler of 
vinegar, the yolks of three raw eggs, one tablespoonful of sugar, 
, one-half teaspoonful of mustard, one tablespoonful of butter,one 
teaspoonful of salt. Put these ingredients on the range in a 
basin, stirring constantly until it thickens ; strain through a 
sieve upon the cabbage, adding one tablespoonful of cream, if 
you have it The above dressing is very nice for lettuce, chop- 
ped celery, or other salad where oil is not liked. 

Hot Cabbage Salad. 

Two quarts of cabbage chopped fine. Take one pint of vin- • 
egar, one tablespoonful of salt, one-half teacup of butter, put all 
but the cabbage into a farina kettle, and when hot, stir in two 
eggs well beaten. Season with pepper, then stir into this the 
cabbage and let the whole come to a boil. Celery chopped fine 
improves it. 

Chicken Salad. 

Take five chickens, boil until v'eiy tender, leaving them in 
the liquor to cool. Take-theni out, and cut in small pieces.' 
To one part of chicken take two of celery ; less will do. Cut 



52 MAEGERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

the celery lengthwise, slice off thin, and put it in salted ice 
water until ready to mix. Dressing : — The yolks of eight or 
ten raw eggs, one large bottle of salad oil, three or four tea- 
spoonfuls of mustard, three teaspoonf uls of pepper, six teaspoon- 
fuls of sugar, one-half cupful of vinegar ; more if liked may be 
added. Commence by beating the yolks until very smooth, 
then add the oil, a few drops at a time, beating all the while, 
either on a platter with a silver fork, or in a bowl with a wheel 
egg beater. When the oil is half beaten in, add the spices ; the 
last half of the oil may be added faster. Just before serving 
mix the chicken, the celery, and nearly all the dressing, reserv- 
ing a little to pour over the top. Ornament with celery tops^ 
olives and small radishes. This is sufficient for forty persons, 
making two large dishes. 

Sweet-Bread Salad. 

When the sweet-breads come from the market sprinkle salt 
upon them, leaving them until ready to use. Rinse off with 
cold water, throw them into boiling water, cook half an hour, 
chop quite fine, mix with either of the salad dressings previous- 
ly given. Select fine crisp, curly lettuce leaves, place a spoon- 
ful of the salad upon each. leaf, and arrange in a salad bowl, or 
upon a platter. Salmon or lobster salad can be prepared and 
served in the same manner. 

Lobster Salad. 

Boil the lobsters, take them from the shells, cut into small 
pieces. If you have not fresh lobsters use canned. Cut celery 
as for chicken salad, two parts to one of lobster. If lettuce is 
preferred use it fresh and crisp, breaking or cutting into small 
pieces, and mix with the lobster and salad dressing, (previously 
given) and garnish with celery or lettuce leaves, olives, slices of 
lemon, or hard boiled eggs. 

Veal Salad. 

Boil lean veal until tender, chop quite fine, chop two or three 
hard boiled eggs and mix with it Take cabbage or lettuce 



SALADS. 53 

chopped fine, if liked one good sized cucumber may also be 
chopped fine and added ; mix with salad dressing and garnish. 

Salmon Salau 

Take one can of salmon, drain the fish, and pick it to pieces, 
removing all the bones and pieces of skin. Chop double the 
quantity of celery, cabbage or lettuce, and mix with it. Use 
mayonnaise dressing, and garnish with plenty of lemons cut in 
slices or points. 

French Salad. 

Six nice ripe tomatoes, skin and slice them, pare and slice 
two large cucumbers, slice one onion very thin, have some ten- 
der crisp lettuce broke into small pieces, place these in layers in 
a salad bowl and pour over them mayonnaise dressing. The 
tomatoes, cucumbers and onions may be cut into small pieces 
mixed with the dressing and served the same as sweet-bread 
salad. 

Potato Salad. 

Cut into small square pieces, six or eight cold, boiled pota- 
toes, add one or two tablespoon fuls of finely chopped onion, 
(omit if preferred), one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, over 
these pour one teacup of vinegar, let it stand two or three hours, 
pour off the vinegar, and mix with salad dressing, one or two 
hard boiled eggs chopped, may be added. 

Tomato Salad. 

Take round, smooth tomatoes, skin them, make a cavity in 
the top of each, and lay in the cavity a spoonful of the mayon- 
naise dressing, and lay each tomato on a crisp, curly lettuce 
leaf, or cut them round the center, and lay the round side down, 
with the dressing laid on the flat side of each piece. 

Asparagus Salad. 

. VBoil asparagus in salted water, or steam until tender, remove 
carefully, laying the tops the same way, serving on a platter. 
Prepare a dressing of oil, pepper and salt, with a sprinkle of 



54 MARGERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

vinegar! ■ Put a large spoonful of this dressing upon each ^late 
on which the asparagus is served. Some prefer the asparagus 
cold, boiling it early and laying it upon ice. 



ICE CREAMS, ETC. 



Ice Okeam. 
One quart of cream, one quart of milk, two eggs, one pound 
of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla.' Scald the milk, sugar 
and eggs together until it thickens, strain and set aside until 
cold. Whip the cream and beat into the custard thoroughly ; 
add the vanilla, and freeze. If not sweet enough add more 
sugar. Equal parts of vanilla and lemon extract make an excel- 
lent flavoring. 

White Ice Cream. 

Two quarts of cre|S™, one quart of rich milk, one pound of 
sugar, whites of two' eggs, lemon or vanilla to taste. Beat the 
sugar and eggs together as for cake, mix with the cream, and 
whip in a large bowl, with a wheel egg beater ; add the milk 
gradually, flavor and'.freeze. 

Caromel Ice Cream. 

Three pints of brown sugar, one quart of milk, two quarts of 
cream, put the sugar over the fire in an iron spider, and stir until 
it becomes a liquid, taking care that it does not burn ; then turn 
into the spider with the melted sugar, gradually, the milk, which 
must be warm. It will curdle. Strain throus;h thin muslin 
and cool. Add the two quarts of cream which have been 
whipped light, and it is ready for the freezer. 

Chocolate Ice Cream. 

Two quarts of cream, one quart of milk, two eggs, one-half 
cup of Baker's chocolate, one pound oE sugar. Grate the choc- 



ICE CEEAMS; ETC. 55 

olate line, and mix into it a smooth paste with a little milk. 
Scald the quart of milk and stir into it the chocolate ; beat the 
yolks of the <eggs, 'stir them into the milk, add thfe sugar; let it 
boil two or three minutes, stirring constantly lest it burn. 
When cold, beat j^to it two quarts of cream whipped light with 
a wheel beater. Beat the wiit^of the two eggs and stir them 
into the whipped cream and custard. If not sweet enough add 
more sugar. Flavor with vanilla and freeze. 

Lemon Ice. 9 

One pint of lemon juice, four pints of water, one tablespoon- 
ful of gum-arabic dissolved in water, the rind of two or three 
lemons, the whites of three eggs, sugar to make sweeter than 
lemonade. Mix the lemon jurce, water, sugar, gum-arabic and 
the grated rind of the lemon. Just as it is ready fon[he freezer 
add the whites of the eggs beaten light. Do not strain, but let 
the rinds of the lemon remain. 

LlffivioN Sherbet. 

Five lemons, one pint of sugar, one quart of water, one table- 
fpoonful of gelatine. Soak the gelatine in a cup of water, boil 
one cupful of water, and dissolve the gelatine in it. When cold 
add the sugar, water, gelatine and lemon juice, and freeze. 
This is light and creaipy. ^ 

Orange Sherbet. 

One quart of water, one pint of sugar, two tablespoon fuls of 
gelatine, and the juice of xen oranges. Pour a cup of boihng 
water, on the gelatine and when dissolved and cold, mix the 
orange juice and sugar with it ; strain and freeze. 

Pineapple Sherbet. .• 

One quart of grate^ pineapple, four lemons, four quarts of 
water. Mix the juice of the lemon thoroughly with the pine- 
agple and water, with sugar enough to make it very sweet, and 
turn the freezer. *^ 



56 • margery daw in the kitchen. 

Sherbet. 

Boil in one quart of rich milk, the rind of one lemon, with 
one pound of white sugar ; when cool, put in the freezer, and 
half freeze it. Have ready the juice of five lemons, and the 
whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Add a little sugar 
to the lemon juice. Add this mixture to the half frozen milk 
in the freezer, and freeze solid. 

Frozen Oranges. 

Remove the peel, and slice as many oranges as may be required. 
To each pound of oranges add three-quarters of a pound of 

.sugar and one-half pint of water, and freeze. 

I 
Frozen Strawberries. 

Take nice, ripe strawberries, put them into a bowl and mash 
them, adding plenty of sugar, making sweeter than for the 
table ; let them stand until the juice is drawn out, and freeze. 
They are nice served with cream, ice cream, or as a water ice. 

Fruit Frappees. 

Line a mould with vanilla ice cream. In the centre put 
fresh berries, sliced peaches, or other fruit Fill up the mould 
with ice cream, cover closely, and pack in salt and ice for half 
an hour. The fruit is better chilled thar^frozen. 



JELLIES AND PRESERVES. 



Lemon Jelly. 



One package of gelatine, one cup of lemon juice or six lem- 
ons, two and one-half cups of sugar, two quarts of water. Dis- 
solve the gelatine in one pint of water, r3dthe other three pints 



JELLIES AND PRESERVES. 57 

of boiling water, the lemon juice and sugar. If desired it can 
be colored a beautiful red with cochineal syrup; add a few 
drops at a tinae until the color is satisfactory. Strain into 
moulds and set into the ice chest to harden. 

Okange Jelly. 

One package of gelatine, one pint of orange juice, or one doz- 
en oranges, the juice of one lemon, one pint of sugai-, one and 
one-half pints of boiling water, half a pint of cold water. Soak 
the gelatine in a half pint of cold water, add the boiling water, 
the orange, lemon juice, and sugar. Strain through a napkin 
into moulds wet with cold water. A pretty way to mould this 
jelly is to fill the mould to the depth. of two inches, with hquid 
jelly. When this is hardened, put on a layer, of changes divided 
into eighths, then a little more jelly tu set the fruit ; fill up the 
mould with jelly and set it aside to harden. 

Wine Jelly. 

One package of gelatine, one pint of cold water, the juice jgi 
three lemons, the rind of one, two pints of boiling water, one' 
pint of wine, two pounds of cj'ushed or granulated sugar. Pour 
the pint of cold water on the gelatine, let it stand one hour. 
Add the boiling water, the wine, sugar, and lemon. Strain in- 
to moulds and set in a cool place to harden. The lemon can be 
omitted, and the flavor varied by adding thi-ee or four whole 
cloves, or a stick or two of cinnamon. This jelly can be col- 
ored red with cochineal syruD. 

Jelly Oranges. 

One dozen fine oranges, one package of gelatine dissolved in 
one cup of cold water, three cups of white sugai-, juice of the 
oranges and grated rind of three, the juice of two lemons, two 
cups of boiling water, oi.e-fourth teaspoonful of cinnamon. 
Soak the gelatine three hours in the cold water ; cut a small 
hole in the top of each orange, and take out all the pulp care- 
fully with a teaspoon handle, not tearing the edges of the holes ; 
(the smaller the hole in the orange, the better the dish will look.) 



58 MARGERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

Lay the empty skins in cold water; strain the juice through 
coarse mushn upon the sugar, add the spice, pour the boiling 
water on the gelatine, add sugar and juice. Strain through a 
flannel bag, not squeezing, as it will make it cloudy. Wipe off 
the orange skins, set close in a dish and fill very full with the 
jelly, as it shrinks in cooling. Next day cut each in half with 
a pen-knife, being careful to ctit the skin all around before cut- 
ting through the jelly. A large knife dipped for an instant in 
hot water and quickly drawn through the jelly part cuts more 
smoothly than a cold knife. Pile them in a dish with green 
leaves around them. It is a much easier dish to make than 
would appear at first. If desired, the oranges can be served 
whole. 

Orange a la Surprise. 

Take fine oranges and cut them around the middle with a 
sharp knife ; take out all the pulp clean with a teaspoon, taking 
care not to tear them. Throw the empty skins into cold water 
until you are ready to fill them. Take them, wipe them, fill 
half the empty skins with whipped cream, and the other half 
with jelly made of the pulp taken out. The jelly can be left 
the color of the orange, or colored a beautiful red with cochi- 
neal syrup, which is very pleasing in contrast with the white 
cream. These can be set on wine glasses or small cups while 
hardening. After the orange skins have been filled, and set in 
the ice chest until hardened, serve either alternately jelly and 
cream on a napkin on a platter, or place together and tie with 
colored ribbons. The surprise is ]|^asant when the ribbons are 
untied. This is a very effective dish and easily prepared. 

Whipped Cream. 

One pint of sweet cream sweetened to taste, one teaspoonful 
o£ vanilla, or other flavoring. Put the cream in a bowl and 
beat with a wheel egg beater until thick, then sweeten and 
flavor. The cream will beat better if cold. The whites of two 
or three eggs beaten to a stiff froth may be added. This makes 
a delicious dessert. Different jellie.i or fruit may be served 
with it. 



JELLIKS AND PRESfiEVES. 59 

Moonshine, 

This dessert combines a pretty appearance with a palatable 
flavor, and is a convenient substitute for ice cream. Beat the 
whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, then add gradually six table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar, beating for not less than thirty 
minutes, then beat in about one heaping tablespoonful of pre- 
served peaches cut in tiny bits (or some use one cup of jelly). 
In serving pour in each saucer some rich cream sweetened, and 
flavored with vanilla, and on the cream place a liberal portioh 
of the moonshine. Bananas may be used instead of peaches, or 
jelly. This quantity is enough for sevetl or eight persons. 

Lemon Honey. 

One-half pound of sugar, two ounces of butter, one egg, two 
lemons ; squeeze the juice, grate the rind of one. Put all these 
ingredients in a saucepan, and simmer fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Grated Pineapple. 

Grate the pineapple on a coarse grater, taking one and one- 
quarter pounds of granulated sugar to Otle of the grated fruit. 
Put the fruit and sugar in a large jar or earthen bowl. Let them 
remain twenty-four hours, stirring occasionally, that the sugar 
liiay be entirely dissolved ; then put the ft'uit in glass cans with- 
out cooking, leaving about one inch of space at the top of each, 
as the fruit will swell. Pineapple is delicious prepared in this 
manner, and has been kept perfectly for two or three years. It 
makes a choice sauce for puddings, and ilot being cooked it re- 
tains the fresh fruit flavor. It can also b^ stirred into ice cream, 
making pineapple cream. 

Brandy Tutti PRUiTti. 

As the season for strawberries approaches take one quart of 
brandy and three pounds of crushed sugar and put them in a 
three gallon jar with a small top. Whetl strawberries are ripe 
prepare three pounds of strawberries as for the table and put 
them into the jar with the brandy and sUgar and three pounds 



60 MARGERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

more of sugar ; always add an equal weight of sugar and fruit. 
This must be stirred gently every day until the jar is filled, and 
the jar must be covered air tight. Add each fruit in its 
season, two or three pounds of each. White cherries and red, 
pineapple, oranges, apricots, peaches pared and cut in halves ; 
very sweet plums may be added. If the plums are tart, cook 
them. This must be kept in a cool place, and stirred gently 
every day until the jar is full. It must be covered air tight. 
This is very nice served with ice cream or as a sweetmeat. 
This is a German recipe. 

Brandy Peaches. 

Select fair peaches and weigh them, have ready a kettle of 
lye, drop the peaches in the boiling lye, and let them boil, leav- 
ing them only a moment or two, when the peel will rub off 
easily. Skim out the peaches and drop them into cold water 
to cool ; take them out and rub off the skins with the hand, or 
with a cloth, then lay in fresh cold water until the syrup is 
made. Take of white sugar half the weight of the peaches, 
make a syrup, cook the fruit twenty minutes, when done add 
half as much brandy as you have syrup, use white brandy. 

Orange Marmalade. 

Six pounds of sour or Sicily oranges, six pounds of granu- 
lated sugar. Pare half a dozen oranges as thin as possible, only 
taking off the yellow part ; boil this in a large kettle of water 
until tender. Then strain the water off and throw it away, cut 
the peel in tiny narrow strips with scissors. Cut the oranges 
in halves through the middle, and with a strong teaspoon tak- 
ing all the juice and pulp out, and as they are taken out, put 
them on the sugar which has been put in a large dish. Be care- 
ful to throw away all the seeds. Take the orange juice, pulp 
and sugar, and let them boil in a porcelain kettle twenty -five 
minutes. After it has boiled fifteen minutes throw in the strips 
of peel. After boiling the remainder of the required time, put 
it into small jars or tumblers. 



jellies and preserves. 61 

Preserved Blackberries. 

Seven pounds of blackberries, four pounds of sugar, one pint 
of vinegar, make a syrup of the sugar and vinegar, put in the 
berries and let them boil half an hour ; skim out the berries, 
put them in small stone jars. Boil the syrup until thick and 
rich, and pour while boiling hot, over the berries. Berries pre- 
pared in this manner, keep perfectly, and are particularly nice 
for pies. 



CAKES. 



In making cake use only the best materials. Eggs will beat 
more quickly if cold. Grease cake pans with fresh lard as it is 
better than butter. Line. the bottom of cake tins with paper. 
Layer cake tins and patty pans also. Measure the flour before 
sifting unless otherwise stated. Sift the baking powder or cream 
tartar with the flour. 

In mixing cake, first beat the buttef to a cream, add the su- 
gar and beat light, next beat in the eggs, add the milk, the fla- 
voring and spices ; then the flour, and if there is fruit, roll it in 
flour and stir in last. If the eggs are beaten separately add the 
whites alternately with the flour. 

If cake is baking too fast, take a square of brown paper, and 
make a cap large enough to cover well the cake pan, cut off 
the corners, lay a plait in the middle of each side fastened with 
a pin. This throws it up in the centre, so that the paper does 
not touch the cake. Save the paper caps for next time., If 
necessary to move cake while baking do so gently. Try with a 
broom splint or knitting needle, if done it will not adhere. 

Mountain Cake. 

One cup of butter, Wfee cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, 
four cups of flour, whites of ten eggs, three teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder, flavor with bitter almond. 




^ margery daw ix the kitchen. 

Neapolitan Cake. 

One-half cup of butter, two cups of sugav, one cup of sweet 
milk, two and one-half cups of flour, whites or five eggs, three 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Take four taHespoonf uls of the 
above mixture, add a small bowl of currants, a large b^l of 
raisins, one teaspoonful of cloves and cinnamon each, one-quarter 
of a nutmeg, one-half cup of molasses, one-half cup of flour. 
EoU the fruit in flour ; bake in a jelly cake tin. The tins should 
be an inch deep. Bake the white mi:|ture in two tins, spread 
with jelly, placing the dark cake between the ^o whjte ones. 
Frost the loaf. I 

Lincoln Cake. 

One-half cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet 
milk, three cups of flour, one cup of raisins, two eggs, two tea- 
•spoonfuls of baking powder, flavor to taste. 

CocoANijT Cake. 

One cup of butter, three cujm q4 sugar, one cup of sweet hiilk, 
whites of six eggs, five cups of flour, one cocoanut, grated, and 
the milk of the cocoanut, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
Stir the cocoanut in th^^ixture and bake in one loaf. 

California Coco.iNUT Jelly Cake. * 

One cup of butter, two cups of granulated sugar, one cup of 
milk, one and three-fourths cups of flour, one and one-half cups 
of corn starch, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, whites of 
eight eggs beaten light. Bake in jelly-cake tins, in five layers. 
Grate with a coarse grater about two cocoanuts. (It is better if 
grated the ditv before using.) For the above, make a frosting 
of f he whites of three eggs and sugar to make it quite stiff, not 
hard. Take first a layer of cake, then a layer of jelly, then 
icing sprinkled with the cocoanut, then a layer of cake jelly, 
and so on ; lastly putting icing and j^anut over the top and 
sides of the cake. 

Clay Cai 

On^-half pound of Gutter, one pound of sugar, one pound of 
floui^f one eup of. sour cream, six eggs, one lemon, three tea- 



d •Dcoar 



• "" CAKES. A, 63 

' spoonfuls of baking powder. Sour milk can be used instead 
of cream, by adding quarter of a pound of butter. 

''■ ' ^^ # - 

Tri-Color Cake. •-' 
One-half cup of butter, two cups of sugar, two andon^SM 

Bof flow; the whites of five eggs, one cup of sweet milk, 
teaspoonfulg^of baking powder. Take one-third of this 
ure and bake in a jelly-cake tin, (have the tins an inch 
deep), divide the remainder into two parts tind color one pink 
with the syrup of cochineal ; to the other portion add one tea- 
spoonful of cinnairion, one-half teaspoonful 6f cloves, one table- 
spoonfal grated chocolate. Take the three cakes after baking 
and .place the white one at the bottom, then the brown, and the 
• pink one on top ; spread jelly between and frost the top Flavor 
the pink and white cake^to taste. 

• Excelsior Sponge Cake. 

Three-quarters of a pound of sugar, one-half pound of flour, 
seven eggs. Break the eggs i^to a cake bowl, leaving out the 
whites oPtwo ; add to the eggs the grated rind of a lemon and 
three teaspoonfuls of juice. Take the sugar, and one-half tum- 
bler of cold water and boil until clear. Pour this hot syrup 
over the unbeaten eggs in the bowl and beat with the wheel 
beater fifteen minutes, then stir in lightly the flour sifted two 
or three times. Bake in square tins* and frost with the whites 
left out for that purpose. 

• Sponge Cake. 

One pountJ of sugar, one-half pound of flour, ten eggs, one 
lemon, a pinch of salt. Separate the yolks and whites of the 
eggs, beat the suga* with the yolks, very light, add grated rind 
and lemon juice, beat the whites to a stiff froth with a pinch of 
salt and stir into the sugar and yolks. Lastly, stir in the well- 
sifted flour as lightly as possible. Bake in a quick oven about 
twenty minutes. » 

Drop Sponge Cake or Lady's Fingers. 

One-half pound of sugar, one-quarter pound of flour, four eggs.- 
Sift in with the flour one small teaspoonful of baking powder. 



64.,S MARGERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

Separate ,fc^e,^gs, beat tlie whites to a stiff froth, beat the yolks 
ajj4 sugar together very light; add the whites, flavoring, and 
lastly the flour. For Lady's Fingers they are taked in lo^, 
narrow strips, and are nice frosted with chocolate icing. 

Seneca Sponge Cake. ^ ^ 

Three eggs beaten one minute ; add one and one-half 'eiips 
of sugar and beat five minutes, one cup of flour and beat one 
minute ; add one-half cup of cold water and another cup of 
flour with one teaspoonful of baking powder sifted thoroughly 
through it. Flavor to taste and bake in square tins. 

Almond Sponge Cake. 

Whites of ten eggs, one goblet of flour, one and one-half gob- 
lets of sugar, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Bake in two 
jelly cake tins. This will be much lighter to sift the flour three 
or four times as in Angel's Food. For the custard, one-half 
pint of cream or milk. Boil it and stir in three well beaten 
yolks, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of corn- 
starch dissolved in cold milk. Boil until thick. When cool 
add one-half pound of blanched almonds chopped fine, saving 
out two dozen to decorate the top. After putting the cream 
between the cakes, ice the top with the white of one ^^^^ a 
small cup of sugar, and a very little bitter almond ; then orna- 
ment with whole almonds in rays from the center. 

• 

Pound Cake. 

Three-quarters of a pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one 
pound of flour, one pound of eggs, one glass of brandy, one 
nutmeg. Cream half the flour with the butter, add the brand}- 
and nutmeg; beat the yolks light with the sugar, add the 
whites beaten very light and the rest of the flour alternately. 
When thoroughly mixed add the cream, butter and flour, and 
beat st^dily for half an hour. 

Measure Pound Cake. 

One cup of eggs, one cup of butter, one and one-half cups of 
sugar ; one and one-half cups of flour. Cream the butter, add 



CAKES. nIM 65 

the flour, and beat thoroughly together ; beat the sugar'arid eggs 
very light, then put all together. The more it is beaten the bet- 
ter it will be. Flavor with brandy or nutmeg. This cake is 
remarkably good if properly made and baked. 

Orange Cake. 

One-half cup of butter, two cups of sugar, ^ne cup of sweet 
milk, three eggs, three cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder. Bake in two or th-ree jelly tins. -For jelly, the 
juiSe of one orange and part of the rind grated, two tart apples 
grated, one egg, one small cup of sugar. Put these ingredients 
on the range, and cook a few ihinutes, stirring all the time. 
Spread this between the cakes with a thin layer of frosting, and 
frost the top. 

Orange Wafers. 

One-half pound of sugar, one-quarter pound of flour, four 
eggs. Separate the whites and yolks and beat very ligfe, one 
lemon, half the rind, and all the juice, or lemon extract. Drop 
from a teaspoon upon buttered paper, and bake in a quick oven. 
Spread the under side with orange marmalade, and place two 
together. These are very delicious. 

Madalins. 

One cup of butter, one and three-quarter cups of sugar, one 
cup of milk, three eggs, two cups of flour, one-half cup. of corn- 
starch, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Bake in patty pans in a quick oven, and frost. Very 
nice. _^ .,. 

Chocolate Later Cake. 

One-half cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet 
milk, three cups of flour, yolks of five eggs, whites of three, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Bake in three or^four jelly 
tins. Mllmg. — Beat the whites of the two eggs left, grate six 
tabtespoonfuls of chocolate, mix with the whites, add enough 
fine sugar to make a thick frosting. Flavor with vanilla. 
Spread this between the cakes, and on the top and sides. 

5 



66 MAEGERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

X. Chocolate Cake, -pc^-- -'- 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, two cups of flour, one 

cup of grated chocolate, two-thirds of a cup of sweet milk, four 

eggs, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful of 

vanilla. , 

Chocolate JIclair Cake. 

One large cup of sugar, one of flour, three eggs, three table- 
spoonfuls of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Bake in two deep jelly tins. Filling custard. — One-half cup of 
sugar, one-quarter cup of flour, one «gg, one-half pint of milk. 
When the milk is boiling, add the egg and sugar, and the flour 
mixed smooth with water. Boil until thick. Frosting for top. — 
One egg beaten separately, six tablespoonfuls of grated choco- 
late, thicken with sugar, add a little milk, cook over boiling 
water. 

Jen>'y LiND Cake. 

Two and one-half cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup 
of sw^tmilk, four cups of sifted flour, five eggs, three teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder. Beat the whites separately. 

Pearl Cake. 

One cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, two cups of sugar, 
two cups of flour, one cup of corn-starch, whites of six eggs, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Bake in small loaves. 

Cinnamon Bunn. 

One cup of butter, three scant cups of sugar, one cup of 
sweet milk, four cups of flour, four eggs, three ,teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. Bake in shallow tins. When taken from the 
oven, spead the top with butter, and sift over with fine sugar 
and cinnamon. 

Spanish Bunn. 

One pint of flour, one pint of sugar, one cup of butter, one 
cup of sweet milk, four eggs, three teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of cloves. 
Bake in square tins and frost. 



CAKES. 67 

Angel's Food Cake. 

The whites of eleven eggs, one and one-half tumblers of 
granulated sugar, one tumbler of flour, one teaspoonful of ci-eam 
tartar, one teaspoonful of vanilla. Break the whites of the 
eggs in a large cake bowl, add a pinch of salt, and -beat very 
light with an egg beater. Sift the sugar once and stir lightly 
into the beaten whites, add the vanilla, or other extract if pre- 
ferred, sift your flour four times, then measure ; add the cream 
tartar and sift once more and stir lightly into the eggs and 
sugar. Bake from forty minutes to an hour in a moderate oven. 
A tin with a tube in the center is much to be preferred. Do 
not grease the tin, and when taken from the oven, turn upside 
down on a sieve to cool. Tins made purposely for this cake 
can be obtained. 

EosY MoEN Cake. 

This cake is made the same as Angel's Food and is colored 
to suit the taste, with cochineal syrup, and being a beautiful 
pink, forms a pleasing contrast with the white Angel's Food 
and black cake. 

Sunshine Cake. 

The whites of ten eggs, the yolks of seven, one tumbler of 
flour, one and one-half tumblers of granulated sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of cream tartar, juice and rind of one lemon, or one tea- 
spoonful of lemon extract, one-half teaspoonful of ammonia. 
Beat the yolks and one-half tumbler of sugar very light, beat., 
the whites to a stiff froth, beating in lightly the remainder of 
the sugar ; then add the beaten yolks and sugar, and flavQt ; 
stir in the flour lightly, adding the ammonia last. Bake iii a 
tin the same as Angel's Food, without greasing it. Sift the 
sugar once, and the flour four times. Turn the tin upside down 
to cool, as in Angel's Food. 

English Walnut Cake. 

, One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, 
four cups of flour, four eggs, three teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der, one cup of chopped Enghsh walnuts. Bake in square tins, 



68 MARGERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

frost, mark in squares, and place half a walnut meat on each 

piece. 

Miss Eliza Horner's Cup Cake. 

One cap of cream, two cups of butter, three cups of sugar, 
five cups of flour, six eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, (if sour 
cream is used) ; if sweet cream, three teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. If liked, raisins may be added. 

Snow Balls. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup of sweet 
milk, three cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
whites of five eggs. Bake in deep, square tins. The day fol- 
lowing, cut in two-inch squares, taking the outside off so as to 
leave it all white ; take each piece on a fork and frost upon all 
sides, and roll in freshly grated cocoanut. This is a delicious, 
as well as a novel cake. 

GAiiFiELDS Whims. — 1881. 

One pound of sugar, one-half pound of butter, one pound of 
flour, six eggs, one-half pint of sour cream, one teaspoonful of 
soda, one pound of raisins. Bake in patty pans. One glass of 
brandy improves greatly. 

Quick Loaf Cake. 

Three-quarters of a cup of butter, one and one-half cups of 
sugar, one cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour, whites of two 
eggs, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one wineglass of 
brandy, a half teaspoonful of mace or nutmeg, one cup of raisins. 

Imperial Cake. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, three-quartei-s of a 
pound o£ butter, one-half pound of almonds, half a pound of 
citron, one pound o,f raisins, one nutmeg, ten eggs, one wine- 
glass of bi-andy. This cake will keep for months. 

• California Fig Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, cup of flour, one- 
half cup of corn-starch, half a cup of sweet milk, whitasof three 



CAKES. 69 

eggs. Bake in two jelly tins in a quick oven. Take one pound 
of almonds, three-quarters of a pound of figs, one cup of seeded 
raisins, one-quarter pound of citron ; chop these ingredients fine- 
ly together, and mix with one egg and a small cup of wine, and 
spread between the two cakes. 

Delicate Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, 
three and one-half cups of flour, whites of five eggs, three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. Beat together thoroughly, adding 
the whites last. Flavor with bitter almond, or vanilla. 

Tumbler Fruit Cake. 

One tumbler, of butter, one tumbler of sugar, one tumbler of 
molasses, one tumbler of sweet milk, four tumblers of flour, four 
eggs, one pound of raisins, one pound of currants, one teaspoon- 
f ul of soda, one teaspoonful of cloves, one-quarter pound of cit- 
ron, two tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, one glass of brandy, one 
nutmeg. 

"Wedding Cake. 

One-half cup of butter, one-half cup of sour cream, one cup 
of brown sugar, one cup of molasses, two eggs, two cups of 
flour, a half teaspoonful of soda, one-half cup of brandy, one 
nutmeg, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, two of cloves, four 
pounds of raisins, two pounds of currants, and one pound of 
citron. Bake in one loaf about three hours in a moderate oven. 

White Fruit Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, one- 
half cup of milk, whites of eight eggs, three teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, one wineglass of brandy, one-quarter of a pound 
of citron, one-half pound of blanched almonds, one-quarter pound 
of cocoanut Slice citron, almonds and cocoanut very thin and 
roll in flour. If fresh cocoanut cannot be obtained, desiccated 
can be used. 



70 makgerv daw in the kitchen. 

Black Cake. 

Three-quarters of a pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one 
pound o£ flour, ten eggs, one wineglass of brandy, one of wine, 
one of molasses, one of milk, four pounds of raisins, two pounds 
of currants, one pound of citron, one teaspoonful of soda in 
the milk, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls of 
cloves, one nutmeg, one-quarter of -a pound of blanched almonds. 
Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs well beaten, 
brandy, wine, molasses and milk, with the soda, then the spices 
and flour, reserving enough to roll the fruit in, which is added 
last. Bake in a slow oven three or four hours. 

Hartford Election Cake — "Extra." 

Four pounds of flour, two pounds of sugar, one pound of 
butter, one pound of lard, two pounds of raisins, one pound of 
citron, four eggs, one quart of new milk, two heaping teaspoon- 
fuls of mace, four nutmegs, half a tumblerful each of wine and 
brandy, one pint of home-made yeast. In the morning cream 
the butter and lard, and when very light, add the sugar, mixing 
well, then take a little Jess than half of it, and rub well into the 
flour. After well warming the flour, add the milk blood warm, 
and the yeast Mix thoroughly, and let it stand where it will 
keep quite warm, until it becomes very light Do not disturb 
it while rising, beat the eggs separately and mix with the re- 
mainder of the shortening, adding spice, wine, etc. Mix well, 
let it rise a second time. Next morning when light, fill pans 
two-thirds full, putting in a little at a time, and dropping the 
fruit in thickly, in layers, to prevent its sinking. Bake in a 
slow oven. Observe all of these directions. 

Eor the yeast, boil a small handful of hops in one v]uart of 
water and strain through a sieve, pour boiling hot over the flour 
enough to make a thin batter. When cool, add half a pint of 
distillery yeast, strain again and let it stand until it is very 
light and foamy. Make the yeast the day before you wish to 
make the cake. 



CAKES. 71 

Golden Jumbles. 

The yolks of eleven eggs, one cup of butter, two cups of 
sugar, one-half cup of sweet milk, three teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, two and one-quarter cups of flour, making nearly as 
stiff as pound cake. Bake in thin cakes in square tins or in 
a dripping pan. When baked, moisten the top with sweet milk, 
while hot, and sprinkle with sugar. Cut from the tins in small 
squares. 

Jumbles. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, two pounds of 
flour, three eggs, nine teaspoonfuls of water, three teaspoonfuls 
of baking power, salt, and flavor to taste. Handle lightly, roll 
thin, and bake in a quick oven. These jumbles are very nice, 
and will keep two or three months. 

Ai-MOND Cookies. 

One egg, two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one-half cup 
of water, with one-half teaspoonful of soda dissolved therein, 
Make them quite stiff with flour, roU thin. When in the tins 
ready to bake, wet with lemon juice, sift sugar over them, and 
lay upon each cookie two almond meats previously blanched 
and halved. Flavor with grated lemon peel and bake quickly. 

Love Kkots. 

Five cups of flour, two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, a 
piece of lard the size of an egg, two eggs, three tablespoonfuls 
of sweet milk, half a teaspoonful of soda. Eub the butter, 
flour and sugar together fine, add the other ingredients, roll 
thin, cut in strips one inch wide and five inches long, and lap 
across in love knots, and bake in a quick oven. 

New Year's Cakes. 

Seven pounds of flour, three and one-half pounds of sugar, 
one and three-fourths pounds of butter, one teaspoonful of soda, 
one ounce of caraway seed. Moisten with" enough tepid water 
to roll out. 



72 margery daw in the kitchen. 

Gingerbread. 

One pint of flour, one and one-half cups of molasses, one- 
half cup of buttgf and lard mixed, two tablespoonfuls of sweet 
milk, two tablespoonfuls of water, one teaspoonful of soda, one 
tablespoonful of ginger, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon and two 
eggs. 

Katie's Ginger Snaps. 

One pint of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, one cup of 
lard, one cup of boiling water, two teaspoonfuls of soda, one 
teaspoonful of ginger, two teaspoonfuls of cloves, flour sufficient 
to roll out. Eoll very thin and bake in a quick oven. 

Bath Ginger Snaps. 

One large cup of butter, one of brown sugar, one of sour 
cream, two of molasses, one of lard, two tablespoonfuls of ginger, 
two of cinnamon, one of cloves, one of soda, flour enough to 
mix soft. KoU very thin and bake quickly. 

Bolivars. 

One cup of shortening, one cup of sugar, two cups of molasses, 
one cup of tepid water, one tablespoonful of soda, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one tablespoonful of ginger, if desired. Just flour 
enough to roll, and cut thick. 

Fairy Gingerbread. 

One cup of butter, two cujjs of sugar, one cup of sweet railk, 
four cups of flour, three-qumers of a teaspoonful of soda, two 
teaspoonfuls of ginger. Beat the butter to a cream, add the 
sugar gradually, and when very light add the ginger, the milk 
in which the soda has been dissolved, finally the flour. Turn 
dripping pans,-, upside down and wipe the bottoms clean, butter 
them, and spread the mixture very thin on them ; bake in a 
moderate oven until brown. While still hot cut into squares 
with a case knife and slip from the pan. This is delicious. Keep 
in a tin box. Spread on the pan as thin as a wafer, and cut 
the moment it comes from the oven. Miss Parloa. 



CAKES. 73 

Mrs. Db. Eudd's Ginger Cake — 1827. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, one cup of butter, 
three eggs, a tatlespoonful of cloves, one of ganger, a ver}^ little 
soda, and flour enough to make as thick as pound cake. Bake 
in a slow oven. 

Molasses Cakes. 

One pint of molasses, one large cap of sour milk, one egg, a 
piece of butter the size of an egg, one tablespoonfui of soda, 
one tablespoonfui of ginger, one quart of flour. Heat all these 
ingredients together, milk warm, except the flour, stirring it 
all the time ; take from the range, add the flour and bake in 
patty pans, or if preferred, in dripping pans, and cut in squares- 
These are unsurpassed. 

Cinnamon Sand Tarts. 

Bight ounces of butter, one pound of flour, one pound of 
brown sugar, three eggs. Eub the butter and sugar to a cream, 
add the eggs, leaving out the white of one ; stir in the flour, 
roll thin, cut in three-inch squares. Before putting into the 
oven, rub the top with the white of the egg and sprinkle with 
cinnamon and sugar mixed. Place a blanched almond in the 
center or part of one in each corner, and bake in a quick oven. 

Doughnuts. 

One pint warm milk, one teacup of lard, one teacup of yeast, 
one teaspoonful of salt, flour ffi|bugh to make a stiff batter, 
(about 2 P. M.) Before bed time, mix the yolks of four eggs 
with two and one-half cups of sugar, then the whites beaten to 
a stifi froth, and one teaspoonful of cinnamon. Mix very soft 
indeed. Eoll out and cut before breakfast, and fry immediately 
after. 

Crullers. 

One pound of sugar, three-quarters of a pound of butter, 
eleven eggs, flour to make them stiff enough to roll out. Cut 
in forms, and fry in hot lard. 



74 MARGERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

Dominoes. 

Have sponge or plain cake baked in rather thin sheets and 
cut into small obrong pieces the size and shape of a domino, a 
trifle larger. Frost the top and sides. When the frosting is 
hard, draw the black lines and make the dots, with a small 
brush, dipped in melted chocolate. These are very nice for 
children's parties. The lines and dots can also be made with 
thin pink frosting on white, or white dots on pink frosting. 

Boiled Frosting. 

One- pint granulated sugar, moisten . with water sufficient to 
dissolve it. Let it boil until it threads from the spoon, stirring 
it often. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, place in a 
deep dish, and turn the boiling sugar over them ; beat quickly 
until of the right consistency to spread over the cake ; this is 
sufficient for two loaves. Flavor as you like. 

Frosting. 

The whites of three eggs, one pound of powdered sugar, one- 
half teaspoonful of cream tartar, a little flavoring. Put the 
whites of the eggs in a bowl with a little of the sugar, and beat 
with a wire spoon to a froth, then add the sugar and the cream 
tartar, a little at a time, beating constantly until when the frost- 
ing is dropped from the spoon the drops retain their form ; 
add the flavoring. If the quantity of sugar given is not suffi- 
cient add more. This recipe is enough for two cakes. One or 
two drops of boiling water meskes frosting smoother for the out- 
side coat. Pink frosting is very effective on some cakea Ob- 
tain the desil-ed shade by adding to plain frosting a few drops 
of cochineal syrup. 

Chocolate Frosting. 

Make plain frosting, take part of a cake of baker's chocolate, 
break in pieces, and set in an earthen dish in the oven to melt ; 
do not let it cook. When melted, beat into the white frosting 
the melted chocolate, until you have it a good chocolate (or sat- 
isfactory) color. Flavor with vanilla. 



CAKES. 75 

GOLDKN FjROSTINO. 

Take the yolks of two eggs, beat in powdeigd sugar enoug h 
to make it the consistency of ordinary frosting ; flavor with 
lemon. This frosting is better to use when first made. 

Nut Feosting. 

Make either plain or boiled frosting, using a little less sugar. 
If almonds are used, blanch and pound, or chop them very fine, 
using about a handful of sweet almonds to the quantity given. 
Hickory nuts can be chopped and used in same manher. 



CANDIES. 



Molasses Candy. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup of sugar, a piece of butter the 
size of a small egg, one tablespoonful of glycerine. Put these 
ingredients into a kettle, and boil hard twenty or thirty min- 
utes ; when boiled thick, drop a few drops in a cup of cold water, 
and if the drops retain their shape, it is nearly done, which 
will be when it is brittle ; do not boil it too much. Have pans 
or platters well buttered, and just before the candy is poured 
into them, stir in one-half teaspoonful of cream tartar, or soda. 
If flavoring is desired, drop the flavoring on the top, as it be- 
- gins to cool, and when it is pulled the whole will be flavored. 
Pull till as white as desired, and draw into sticks, and cut with 
shears. 

Molasses Taffy. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, a piece of butter the 
size of an egg. Boil hard, test in cold water ; when brittle, pour 
in thin cakes on buttered tins ; as it cools mark in squares with 
the back of a knife. 



76 margery daw in the kitchen. 

Butter Scotch. 
One cup of browa sugar, one-half cup of water, one teaspoon- 
ful of vinegar, piece of butter the size of a walnut. Boil about 
twenty minutes ; flavor if desired. 

Pea-Wut Candy. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, one table- 
spoonful of butter, one of vinegar. Put into a kettle to boil. 
Having cracked and rubbed the skin from the pea-nuts, put 
them into buttered pans, and when the candy is done, pour it 
over the nuts. Cut into blocks while warm. 

HOREHODND CaNDY. 

Steep one tablespoonful of horehound, (dried leaves) in one- 
half cup of water ; strain and add one pint of sugar, one table- 
spoonful of vinegar. Boil without stirring, test in cold water, 
and when brittle pour into buttered pans, marking off in squares 
while warm, with tlie back of a knife. 

Pop-Corn Balls. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, one table- 
spoonful of vinegar, a piece of butter size of a small egg. Make 
the candy in. a large kettle, pop the corn, salt it, and sift it 
through the fingers, that the extra salt, and unpopped kernels 
may drop through. (It will take four quarts or more of com 
that is popped.) Then stir all the corn into the kettle that the 
candy will take, heap it oh buttered platters, or make into 
balls. 

Vanilla Sugar Candy. 

Two pounds of granulated sugar, two-thirds of a cup of water, 
one-third cup of vinegar, butte^ the size of an egg, one table- 
spoonful of glycerine, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla. Boil all ex- 
cept the vanilla without stirring, twenty minutes or half an 
hour, till crisp, when dropped into water. Just before pouring 
upon platters to cool, add a small teaspoonful of soda, or cream 
tartar. After pouring upon the platters to cool, pour the two 



CANDIES. 11 

teaspoonfuls of vanilla over the top. You can pull it beauti- 
fully white. Draw it into sticks the size you wish, and cut off 
with shears, into sticks or kiss-shaped drops, to suit the eaters. 
If you can succeed in keeping it a Week, it wilf become creamy. 

WiNTERGREEN CAKDY. 

Make the candy the same as the vanilla, and after it is poured 
upon the platter to cool, drop over the top one or two teaspoon- 
fuls of wintergreen essence to taste, and color pink by dropping 
a few drops of cochineal syrup either in the boiling candy or 
on the top with the flavoring. Make into sticks or kisses. 

French Cream Candy. 

Four cups of white sugar, one cup of hot water, flavor with 
vanilla ; put the sugar and water in a bright tin pan on the 
range, and let it boil without stirring, about' eight minutes, and, 
if it looks somewhat thick, test by letting some drop from the 
spoon, and if it threads, remove the pan to the table, taking a 
small spoonful and rubbing it against the side of a cake bowl, 
and if creamy and will roll into a ball between the fingers, pour 
the whole into the bowl and beat rapidly with a large spoon or 
porcelain potato masher. If it is not boiled enough to cream, 
set it back upon the range, let it remain one or two minutes or 
as long as" it is necessary, taking care not to cook it too much. 
Add the vanilla (or other flavor) as soon as it begins to cool. 
This is the foundation for all French creams. It can be made 
into rolls and sliced off, or packed in plates and cut into small 
cubes, or made into any shape imitating French candies, A 
pretty form is made by coloring some of the cream pink, tak- 
ing a piece about as large as a hazel nut, and crowding an 
almond meat half way into one side,' till it looks like a bursting 
kernel. In working should the cream get too cold, warm it. 

Peppermint Creams. 

Make cream as previously directed, flavoring quite strong 
with essence of peppermint ; take off small bits and shape info 
round flat forms. 



78 MARGERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

WiNTERGREEN CrEAMS. 

Make cream as directed, flavor with wintergreen, color pink 
with cochineal syrup, and form into round lozenger shapes. 

Fruit Creams. 

Add to French cream, raisins, currants, figs, a little citron, 
chopped and mixed thoroughly through the cream while quite 
warili. Make into bars or flat cakes. 

Nut Creams. 

Chop almonds, hickory, butternuts, or English walnuts, quite 
fine, and mix into French cream, forming into balls, bars or 
flat cakes. 

Walnut Creams. 

Take a piece of French cream the size of a walnut. Having 
cracked some English walnuts, using care not to break the 
meats ; place one-half of each nut upon each side of the ball 
pressing them into the ball. 

Panache Cream. 

Make the French cream recipe, and divide into three parts, 
leaving one part white, color one pink with cochineal syrup, and 
the third part color brown with chocolate, which is done by 
just letting the cream soften and stirring in a little finely grated 
chocolate. The pink is colored by dropping on a few drops of 
cochineal syrup while the cream, is warm, and beating it in. 
Take the white cream, make a flat ball of it, and lay it upon a 
buttered dish and pat it out flat until about half an inch thick. 
If it does not work easily dip the hand in alcohol. Take the 
pink cream, work in the same way as the white and lay it upon 
the white ; then the chocolate in the same manner, and lay 
upon the pink, pressing all together. Trim the edges off 
smooth, leaving it in a nice square cake, then cut into slices or 
small cubes, as you prefer. It is necessary to work it all up as 
rapidly as possible. 



CANDIES. 79 

Chocolate Creams. 

Use French cream, and form it into small cone-shaped balls 
with the fingers. Lay them upon oiled paper to harden until 
all are formed. Melt one cake of baker's chocolate in an earthen 
dish or small basin ; by setting it in the oven it will soon melt ; 
do not let it cook. To keep the chocolate hot, it is well to have 
a hot soap-stone, and place the basin with the chocolate upon 
it Take the balls of cream one at a time on a silver fork, pour 
the melted chocolate over them with a teaspoon, and when well 
covered, slip them from the fork upon oiled paper. 

CocoANUT Cakes. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of water, let it boil till it crisps 
in water, (or the same as French cream,) take off and stir till it 
creams. One grated cocoanut stirred in after the candy is beat- 
en to a cream, make in good sized cakes, but thin. Reserve 
about two tablespoonfuls of the cream, add a little cocoanut and 
enough cochineal syrup to color it pink, and drop a little upon 
the center of the cakes. Work very quickly, else it will cool. 

Chocolate Caramels. 

One cup of grated chocolate, one cup of molasses, one cup of 
brown sugar, one cup of milk, a piece of butter the size of a 
small egg. Put all the ingredients in a kettle to boil, adding 
one tablespoonful of glycerine, and boil fast. When nearly 
done add the chocolate ; test it by dropping into cold water, and 
when done pour into buttered pans. When cool mark into 
blocks with the back of a knife. 



SUGGESTIONS FOR THE SICK ROOM. 



Never keep fruit in a sick room ; the sight of it is apt to 
lessen the appetite for it. An orange delicately prepared, or a 
bunch of malaga or other nice grapes, brought in on a dessert 
plate with a few green leaves, will form a tempting and agree- 
able surprise to the capricious appetite of an invalid. 

Sago, prepared like a custard, then baked with apples, is an 
excellent sick room pudding. 

Oysters are good for the sick, especially raw, (without vine- 
gar, lemon juice may be used,) a very few at a time. They are 
easily digested and agreeable to the palate. 

Fresh tea should be made as often as the invalid needs ifa 
and no food or drinks should remain in the sick room, but 
should be kept in an adjoining room or outside of the window 
where they would be fresh and cool. The fevered atmosphere 
of the sick room passes readily into the composition of food. 

Invalid's Bill of Fark 

Breakfast. — Oranges, oatmeal, jelly and cream, dry toast, soft 
boiled eggs, cocoa. 

Lunch. — At 11 o'clock a. m., tea, steamed crackers, baked 
sweet apples. 

Dinner. — Chicken soup, oysters on lialf shell, raised roll. 

Dessert. — Boiled rice with maple syrup, malaga grapes, wine- 
glass of sherry. 

Tea. — Milk toast with j ally, baked potato, milk broth. 

Supper. — At 9 P. M. A bowl of delicate broth with a few 
bits of stale bread, or cracker dropped in it, and a tablespoonful 
of wine added. 

Food for the sick should be of the best quality, and neatly 
and delicately prepared. 

Every meal should be a surprise, and the patient should be 
left alone while eating, if possible. 

Food should be made as attractive as possible, served in the 
(ihWe'est china, with the cleanest of napkins, and the brightest 
of silver. 



suggestions for the sick room. 81 

Beef Tea. 
Take one pound of lean beef chopped fine, (at the market), 
pour over it one pint of coid water, let it stand an hour. ' Then 
set it on the back of the range, and let it simmer slowly about 
three-quarters of an hour ; strain and salt when used. 

Chickex Broth. 
One chicken jointed, cover it with water, and let it boil, close- 
ly covered, until the meat drops from the bones. Skim off the 
fat,, strain and season with salt, and if desired a teaspoonful or 
two of rice, and let it boil until the rice is cooked. In some 
cases of nausea a cup of chicken broth will prove eiificacious. 

MuTTOJS" Broth. 
To each pound of meat add one quart of cold water, bring 
gently to a boil, skim it and salt to taste ; sihimer three hours. 
A teaspoonful or more of rice may be added, and boil till the 
rice is cooked. 

Water Gruel. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of Indian meal, and one of flour, 
with a little cold water, and stir it into a quart of water, and 
let it boil three-quarters of an hour, salt to taste, and if desired, 
flavor with nutmeg or cinnamon. A few raisins, and a small 
piece of biitter may also be added. 

EaIsin Gruel. 
One pint of water, and one handful of seeded raisins boiled 
therein until tender. Add one teaspoonful of flour wet with 
cold water. A little wine or nutmeg may be added, or both if 
preferred. 

Oatmeal Gruel. 

Stir two large spoonfuls of oatmeal into one pint of boiling 
.water, boil gently one-half hour, skim, add a little salt, sugar 
and nutmeg. 

Buckwheat Gruel (for Nausea). 
One quart of boiling water, stirring into it one tablespoonf^ 
,•■ of buckwheat flour, and one dozen seeded raisins ; salt to taste, 
boil one hour. 



82 margery daw" in the kitchen. 

Flaxseed Tea. 

One-half pound of flaxseed, one-half pound of rock candy, 
the juice of three lemons, the skins may be cut into small pieces 
and added. Pour over this two quarts of boiling water, and 
let it stand until perfectly cold. Strain before drinking ; this is 
good for a cough, (more sugar and lemon may be added). 

For Hoarseness. 

Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, add two table- 
spoonfals of sugar,, a little nutmeg, and one-half pint of tepid 
■water, the juice of half a lemon. If one quantity does not re- 
lieve, prepare another. 

Cough Syrup. 

One pint of boiling water, poured over one pound of loaf 
sugar, when cold add one ounce of wood naptha and one-half 
ounce of paregoric, stir well and cork tightly. Dose. — One tea- 
spoonful three times a day. If necessai-y more frequently. 

Cure for a Felon. 

Two drachms of gum ammoniac dissolved in one ounce of 
alcohol. Bind the finger up in a linen cloth, and keep it con- 
stantly wet with the solution. Add more alcohol if necessary. 
(Gum ammoniac is a brown gum.) This has been tried very 
successfully. 

Cholera Infantum. 

Steep one teaspoonful each of ground cinnamon, cloves and 
allspice in a little water. Then stir in enough ground flaxseed 
with one teaspoonful of brandy, to make a stiff batter ; spread 
this on thin pieces of muslin, and lay on the pit of the stomach 
and small of the back. 

Hop Bitters. 

A double handful of hops, same quantity of dandelion roots 
and yellow dock, one-half ounce of buchu, one-fourth ounce of 
mandrake, one-fourth ounce of wild cherry bark. Pour two 
quarts of water over all but the hops, and let simmer four or 



SUGGESTIONS FOR THE SICK ROOM. 83 

ive hours, then add the hops, and let all simmer an hour' or 
,wo. Then strain and it will be ready for use. Dose. — On'¥h'alf 
I, wineglassful before each meal. (Sufficient water should be 
idded to make two quarts. A little spirits can also be added 
;o keep it.) 

Sago Jelly. :- - 

One quart of boiling water, six tablespoonf uls of sago, six 
;ablespoonf uls of sugar, boiled to a jelly, stirring all the time ; 
Savor with vanilla, nutmeg or cinnamon. Pour it into a mould 
3r cups and eat cold with cream. ' 

Panada. 

Take four crackers, break them into a bowl. Add one or 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar, a small bit of butter, one or two 
tablespoonfuls of whisky. Pour over the whole one-half pint 
of boiling water, and grate over it a little nutmeg. 

Abrow-Eoot Custards. 

Boil one pint of milk, and while boiling stir into it one table- 
spoonful of arrow-root, mixed smooth with a little cold milk, 
add a little salt and let it boil three or four minutes, and then 
let it cool and add two beaten eggs, sugar and nutmeg to taste. 
Keturn to the range, and stir all the time till it boils ; then pour 
into custard cups. 

Baked Milk. 

Bake two quarts of fresh milk in a moderate oven eight or 
ten hours in a jar. Cover the jar with white paper tied well 
over the top. When baked, it will be as thick as cream, and 
can be used by very delicate persons. 

To Check a Cold. 

As soon as you feel that you have taken cold, fill a glass half 
full of water, drop into it six drops of spirits of camphor, stir it 
and take a dessertspoonful every twenty minutes. This is re- 
.markably successful if taken according to direction. 



84 MAEGERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 



SUNDRIES. 



Fob Corning Beep. 

Out and pack the beef in a barrel. For one hundred pounds 
take six pounds of salt, two ounces of salt-petre, one cup of 
molasses, (or one-half pound of sugar,) put them into sufficient 
water to cover the beef. Boil the brine, and skim until clear, 
and pour over the beef while scalding hot. After one week it 
will be ready for use. 

French Mustard. 

Four tablespoonfuls of mustard, one tablespoonful of sugar, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one-half 
teaspoonful of cloves, one-half teaspoonful black pepper, one. 
half teaspoonful of flour, vinegar enough to cover, making it 
quite moist Mix all together smooth, and put it on the fire, 
letting it come to a boil. After it is cold, add one or two table- 
spoonfuls of salad oil and mix thoroughly. 

Lemonade. 

Two large, juicy lemons, or three smaller ones, one large cup 
of sugar, and one quart of ice water. Eipe strawberries mashed 
and added are very delicious, or grated pineapple, if preferred. 

Guava Jelly Punch. 

One part of sour (lime or lemon juice), two parts of sweet 
(guava jelly and white sugar dissolved in boiling water), three 
parts of stVong (old rum), four parts of weak (water). This is 
a very old recipe. 

Ginger Oordial. 

Four pounds of red or white currants, eight ouncas of ginger 
root, two ounces of bitter almonds, one-half ounce of sweet al- 
monds, three lemons sliced, one gallon of whisky. Mash the 



SUNDRIES. 85 

currants, cut the ginger into small pieces, crack and split the 
nuts. Pour the whisky over these ingredients, and let it stand 
ten days; then pour it off carefully, add four pounds of loaf 
sugar, and bottle it 

Saksaparilla Syrifp. 

One-half pound of Spanish sarsaparilla, boil in two gallons of 
water four hours. Add enough water to make one gallon ; 
then add eight pounds of sugar, and five ounces of tartaric 
acid, mix thoroughly, boil two or three minutes and bottle. 

Put two tablespoonf uls of the syrup in two-thirds of a glass 
of ice water. Add a little soda, and drink while foaming. 

Fine Cologne Water. 

Oil of lemon two drachms, oil of rosemary two drachms, oil 
of lavender one drachm, oil of bergamot two drachms, oil of 
cinnamon ten drops, oil of cloves ten drops, oil of roses two 
drops, tincture of musk eight drops. Put all these oils into a 
quart of the best alcohol, cork tightly and shake hard for a few 
minutes. It improves by age. If you wish it stronger use less 
alcohol. Good ; try it. ' 

Eecipe for Yeast. 

One ounce of kops, one pint of corn (yellow) lightly browned. 
Boil each separately in one quart of water twenty minutes, then 
strain through a cloth. Two quarts of potatoes boiled in half 
a gallon of water, washed through a sieve, one teacup of sugari 
half a teacup of salt. Let it ccol and then put in two yeast 
cakes. Let it stand over night and bottle. Do not cork too 
tightly until the next day. 

Tooth Powder. 

One-fourth of a pound precipitated chalk, one-fourth of a 
pound of pulverized orris root, one ounce of pulverized sugar. 
Mix all together and flavor with wintergreen. 

Something "Worth Knowing. 

The great annoyance of those baking pies, is the loss of the 
rich syrup of juicy pies, which not only injures them, but tries 



86 MARGERY DAW IK THE KITCHEN. 

the patience of the lioasekeeper. To prevent this, take a strip 
of musHn one inch -wide, and long enough to go around the pie 
and lap. Wet the cloth in cold water, and lay it around the 
pie, half upon the pie and half upon the plate, pressing it either 
side. When the pie is taken from the oven, remove the cloth. 
This is a success. Try it. 

College Hill Pie-Plant Pie. 

Stew and strain through a colander sufficient pie-plant to fill 
a large coffee cup. (It will require more pie-plant than for an 
ordinary pie.) Eeturn the strained pulp to the range, take one 
heaping tablespoonful of corn-starch, mixed in a little cold 
water, and stir into the pie-plant Beat the yolks of three eggs, 
with a large cup of sugar, and stir well into the mixtura Bake 
with one crust, and cover with meringue made of the whites of 
the eggs. 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

One quart of flour weighs one pound and one ounce. 
One pint of soft butter (well packed) weighs one pound. 
Two*teacupfuls of granulated sugar weighs one pound. 
A common-sized tumbler holds one-half pint 
Four teacupfuls equal one quart ^ 

Four tablespoonfuls are equal to one-half gill. 
Sixteen ounces make one pound. 
A common-sized wineglass holds one-half gill. 
One tablespoonful of granulated sugar weighs one ounca 
Two teaspoonfuls of flour, sugar, or meal, equal one table- 
spoonful. 

One tablespoonful of soft butter, weighs one ounce. 

Soft butter the size of an egg, weighs two ounces. 

Eight tablespoonfuls of liquid equal one-half tumbler. 

Two tablespoonfuls contain a fluid ounce. 

Four gills make one pint 

Two pints make one quart 

Four quarts make one gallon. 

Ten medium sized eggs weigh one pound. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



( For Third Edition.) 



French Soup. 

Four pounds of veal, boiled in four quarts of water, with two 
onions, one carrot, a little thyme, white pepper, and salt to t.aste. 
One teaspoon of corn-starch. Strain into the turreen and add 
half a pint of cream. 

Mock Turtle Soup. 

ft 

Wash and soak over night in tepid water one pint of black 

beans. In the morning add four quarts of stock made from the 

shin bone of beef or veal, salt, a little cayenne pepper, thyme, 

two onions, two tomatoes, orie large head of celery, one teaspoon 

of whole allspice, one-half teaspoon of cloves, one tablespoon of 

catsup. Keep the original quantity of water, four quarts, by 

adding boiling water. After several hours when the beans are 

soft, strain through a colander. Have ready some force meat 

balls, for which me recipe is given below. Lay the balls in a 

turreen with two hard boiled eggs and one lemon sliced thin ; 

then pour over them the boiling soup and serve. Some of the 

meat cut fine from boiled calves' feet is a great addition. One 

wine glass of wine may be added. 

Force Meat Balls. 

Twelve ounces of veal, three ounces of salt pork, two ounces 
of grated bread, three tablespoons of sweet cream or milk, one 
teaspoon of salt, one-half teaspoon of pepper, one-half ;teaspoon 
of summer saviDry, one egg beaten light with the cresirri, veal 
and pork chopped very fine and mixed with the other' ingredi- 
ents. Make into small smooth balls and fry in lard or drop them 
into boiling water. 



88 margery daw in the kitcheif. 

Browning for Soup. 

One-quarter pound of loaf sugar, a piece of butter the size of 
a hickory nut, one pint of boiling water. Heat a saucepan, put 
in the sugar and butter, and let it brown, taking care that it does 
not burn, then pour in one pint of boiling water. Bottle for use. 

Oyster Salad. 

One quart of oysters, three pints of chopped or cut celery, 
mayonnaise dressing. Cook the oysters in their own liquor un- 
til the edges curl. Take them from their liquor and add to 
them one tablespoon of oil, one of vinegar, a little salt and pep- 
per, then place them in the ice chest. Just before serving drain 
the oysters again and mix with the celery and pour over the 
whole mayonnaise dressing. 

Scalloped Lobster 

Two lobster s weighing two and a half pounds, or an equal 
weight of canned lobster, one pint of cream or rich milk, two 
tablespoons of butter, two tablespoons of flour, a trifle of cayenne 
pepper and. salt, and a scant pint of bread crumbs. Cut the 
lobster rather fine. Put the cream on the range to boil, mix 
the butter, flour and cayenne together, and adcMhree tablespoons 
of boiling cream. Stir all into the remaining cream and cook 
two minutes. Add the lobster, salt and pepper, and boil one 
minute. Turn into a buttered baking dish or small scallop 
shells, cover thickly with the bread crumbs and brown in a hot 
oven. 

Pressed Chicken. 

Cut up one chicken and cover well with water and boil until 
the meat will drop from the bones. After removing the chicken 
from the kettle there must be one pint of liquor. Separate the 
meat from the bones, taking care to remove the skin, gristle and 
little pieces of bone. Chop fine while warm, season with salt, 
pepper and a small piece of butter, tlien return to the kettle with 
the liquor, and when hot pack in a mould, and set it aside to 
cool. 



additional recipes. 89 

English Potted Beef. 

Pour pounds of round steak cut into small pieces minus the 
fat and ligaments, placed in a jar witli a little salt and pepper 
and half a pound of butter. Put the jar in tlie oven and let it 
bake three hours, covered tight. When done chop or grind 
very fine. Mix all the juice with it, season to taste. Pack in 
small bowls. 

Chicken Jelly. 

Take two chickens, (not old fowls,) cut them up, put them in a 
kettle with three quarts of water. Boil slowly, skimming as 
soon as it boils, then set the kettle back on the range and boil 
slowly until the meat drops from the bones, add salt to taste, 
and strain through a napkin into moulds. 

Sweet-Breads and Mushrooms. 

Boil twenty minutes eight large sweet-breads, plunge them in- 
to cold water to blanch. When cold trim and cut them into 
inch squares. Open one can of mushrooms and cut them into 
three or four slices crosswise. Let them simmer in the liquor 
from the can for one hour, then add the sweet-breads with salt 
and pepper, two teaspoons of flour, one pint of dfeam or rich 
milk, one-half ounce of butter. Stir together and let them boil 
a moment Serve immediately. 

EscALOPED Cheese. 

One cup of bread crumbs soaked in milk, add two eggs well 
beaten, one tablespoon of butter, one-half pound of grated cheese. 
Strew bread crumbs on the top and bake in the oven a 'delicate 
brown. This is an excellent dish for supper with thin slices of 
bread and butter. 

Horse-Eadish Sauce. 

One tablespoon of grated horse-radish, one teaspoon of made 
mustard, one teaspoon of salt, three tablespoons of rich cream 
or one tablespoon of olive oil if preferred, two .tablespoons of 
vinegar. Mix all well together. To be eaten with roast meats. 



90 margery daw in the kitchen. 

Solid Syllabub. 

One quart of milk, one quarter box of gelatine, the yolks of 
four eggs, sweeten to taste. Soak the gelatine in one tablespoon 
of water, beat the sugar and yolks together and stir into the 
boiling milk and cook a minute or two, add the gelatine and pour 
into a mould. 

SAUCE. 

One cup of boiling milk, yolks of two eggs, one teaspoon of 
corn-starch, stir until it thickens. One cup of cream beaten 
stiff, and when the custard- is cold beat it into the cream. 

Frozen Pine-Apple. 

One quart can of pine-apple, stir into it a little hot water, when 
cool add three quarts of cold water, two pounds of sugar, and 
the whites of four eggs, well beaten, then freeze. This will 
make about six quarts. 

Flemish Cream. 

One-half ounce of gelatine dissolved in one pint of water, add 
half a pint 91 gs^m, whipped, and a wineglass of brandy. Whip 
all well together and turn into a mould. 

Peach Snow Balls. 

One-third of a box of gelatine, whites of three eggs, one lemon 
rind and juice, small pinch of salt, flavor with vanilla. Cover 
the gelatine with cold water, when soft add boiling water to 
. make a full pint or a little more, strain it on a platter ; when 
cool break into it the whites of the eggs and beat until it begins 
to stiffen, add a little sugar, lemon juice and grated rind, salt, 
and vanilla,' also about half a pint of canned peaches, pineapple 
or other fruit, reduced to a smooth pulp through the colander. 
Have the fruit very sweet. Beat all together until stiS and 
foamy, then mould in caf^ or egg cups. Set them aside to 
harden; Serve with whipped cream. 



additioxal recipes. 91 

Charlotte Eusse. 

Pne quart of cream, half a pint of milk, yolks of three ^gs, 
one ounce of gelatine, one-half pint of wine. Scald the milk 
and pour into it the yolks of the eggs beaten with the sugar ; 
sweeten to taste. After the custard has thickened, pour into it 
the gelatine, having previously soaked it in half a pint of water, 
take from the iire and add the wine. Whip the cream stiff, and 
when the custard is about the consistency of hot stare^ beat 
them together. * 

Hickory Nut Macaeooxs. 

' One pound of powdered sugar, one pound of nuts, chopped, 
whites of five unbeaten eggs, one tablespoon of flour, two small 
teaspoons of baking powder. 

Queen's Cake. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one-half pound of 
tutter, one pound of raisins, four eggs, one cup of sour cream, 
one wineglass of brandy, one teaspoon of soak, nutmeg and other 
spices if liked. 

Whims. ^ . 

One cup of sugar, two eggs, two teaspoons of baking powder, 
a little salt, and flavor to taste, flour enough to roll out "thin. 
Cut in narrow strips, or other shape if pr^erred, and roll in sugar. 

Hickory JSTut Jumbles. 

Two cups of sugar, half a cup of .butter, two eggs, six table- 
spoons of milk, two teaspoons of baking powder, qjie cup of 
chopped nuts, and flour enough to roll out. * 

Good Substitute for Cream. 

Beat well the yolks of two eggs, and stir them into one pint 
of milk, add a little«»gar about one tablespoonful, plape over 
the fire stirring one direction until it is the consistency of cream. 
After it is cold, add some cream if you have it. 



92* margery daw in the kitchen. <>. ' 

Golden Pound. Cake. 

(Me pound of flour, one pound of sugar, three-quarters ^a 
pound of butter, fourteen eggs, (yolks only,) the juice and rind of 
two lemons. Cream the butter and sugar, add the yolks well 
beaten and strained, now add the grated rind of the lemon and 
flour ; dissolve one teaspoon of s^l volatile in a little hot water, 
taking care to cut it well, and beat it into the mixtu|e ; add the 
lemon^ice just before putting into the pansj^beating thoroughly. 

• 
Arab Eacahout. 

One pound of ground rice, one pound of arrow-root, half a 
pound of best chocolate, mix well together and put iiito a jar 
for use. Take a tablespoon of the vacahoiit and mix it into a 
paste with water or milk. Stir this paste into half a pint of 
boiling milk and let it boil for a few minutes. Sweeten to taste 
and serve as chocolate. Very desirable and nutritious for the 
sick room. 

• Glycerine Cream. 

This superior cosmetic is the well known cold cream with 
glycepn* substituted for rose water. Melt together six ounces 
of spermaceti, one ounce of white wax, one pound of sweet al- 
, mon4 oil. Then remove from the fire and stir in four ounces of 
Price's glycerine, and when congealing perfume with twenty 
drops of ottar of rose. Other ottars may be used if -desired in 
place of rose. 












a(^^' 



Ty^ilyCey}^ , 



[X^J,^ i^^T^^?^; /^.a;?^ e^i^>,u>'z^/^ T<r,'%.,.,...ii.A^ otirt^A^ 

^-'^--X^^^jP^^^^^^ ^_ 1— — 




Cc^Ji^ - -2 <i-c>y^ fi^^^ct^, S~£^^^ 





cUa^j Ze..^.tii^ 4C>-v<^^ i^r^viiii^ -4^*2$:,^ ^z5"^«^^;^ 







Se^co/i^ -^^ 



^ 



^i 



!4?-(>vi' --■ c( 



1, , i ■ "'^'^ 




cJ Ct.^ c,_oO </( 




13 — s-v-\^ 1^-L^\_cx.-e\_jl_ 'M'T.*<L^ 





d-^^cA^ q^^i^JiAZ a^/^-iJM^ ttZJL xjLO-\yk.,<i_j ^hf \ 






,^^^ ^^^^'-"'"^-''5^ -V^^^t-e^^, 'i'^A:^^^ 



"~ ^r^ '^,'*^ ^'"^' "^--i 






^^. ;:^ 



\ 



