Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



PRICE ONE SHILLING. 




"How TO Fold Them ok our 

POOR PASTURES, 

B Y 

Major G.F.iMoRANX, 




RABBITS AS A FOOD SUPPLY, 



CHAPTER I. 

THE IMPORTANCE OF RABBITS AS AN ADDITION 

TO OUR FOOD SUPPLY. 

It may not have occurred to many people that the 
despised rabbit, for whose speedy extermination 
our Legislature have recently passed The Hare and 
Rabbit Bill, actually stands fourth on the list of 
all created animals as a flesh supplier to that car- 
nivorous animal man ; nor that of the almost 
endless varieties which he found on the globe 
when he first appeared on the scene himself, he 
has only succeeded in taming four, so that they 
live close to his house, ready for him to eat when 
he is hungry, without the trouble his ancestors had, 
and many savages still have, of going out to catch 
them. We purposely omit the goat, whose flesh 

B 



2 RABBITS AS A FOOD SUPPLY, 

is not generally liked by the Anglo-Saxon, though 
it is usefully kept for the sake of its milk. 

But if one of the patriarchs came to dine with 
us to-morrow, we could only offer him his familiar 
beef and mutton or pork, at which he would 
probably be offended, or a bird of some sort, or a 
rabbit. 

From the earliest historic times cattle, horses, 
sheep, and camels were domesticated by man, nor 
have the three last-named ever been discovered in 
a wild state, though there is a report that camels 
exist wild in a remote part of Eastern Tartary. 
The herds of so-called wild horses that exist in 
America and Australia are all the produce of 
horses which were brought to these countries from 
the old world ; and so rapidly do they deteriorate, 
that we have been told a herd of wild Australian 
horses would not average 3/. a head if driven into 
Aldridges* auction yard for sale. This arises from 
the mares breeding so young, and from what is 
called in-and-in breeding. 

We can hardly expect to add to our small list 
of domesticated animals fit for food, as even the 
discovery of America gave us nothing but ' the 
turkey ; ' and the larger mammalia were only 
represented by the kangaroo and the dingo, or wild 
dog, in the whole continent of Australia. It is 



IMPORTANCE OF RABBITS AS FOOD, 3 

a curious fact that the animals found in Australia 
and New Zealand all differed from those found in 
the old world ; and we believe that the only bird 
common to Europe and Australia is Scolopax 
Majory the common snipe ; but we write subject to 
correction. At the same time in no part of the 
world have the horse, the sheep, the rabbit, and 
the house sparrow increased to such an extent 
when once introduced, which shows that animals 
have not always been placed by nature in the 
situations most favourable to them. 

Cattle also, when introduced into America and 
Australia, have multiplied to such an extent that 
a short time ago it seemed that these countries 
would supply us with all the meat we should 
require. 

However, a prosperous population, capable of 
consuming most of the beef produced in the in- 
terior, is rapidly springing up on the East Coast of 
America and intercepting the supplies which used 
to reach us ; and as the agricultural returns tell us 
that our flocks and herds have actually decreased 
while our population has increased in the last four 
years, the price of beef and mutton is rising until 
they will soon be out of reach of any but the wealthy. 
The difficulty of sending meat, either alive or dead, 
a long voyage has caused a very considerable 

B 2 



4 RABBITS AS A FOOD SUPPLY. 

quantity of meat to be imported in tins, but this 
food is not much fancied by the large class of 
operatives, and they would rather any day buy a 
rabbit and know what they get for their money 
than buy a tin of meat called beef or mutton and 
not be quite sure of its contents. The frequent 
seizure of meat unfit for human food in our own 
markets makes people wonder if it is not possible 
that some of the animals whose flesh fills these 
tins may not have departed this life without much 
assistance from the butcher; and the pathetic 
lament of the gentleman who lived next door to a 
sausage manufactory and lost his favourite little 
dog— 

Oh where and oh where is my dear little dog, 

Oh where and oh where can he be ! 

They make them of horse and they make them of cat, 

And I fear they have made them of He — 

suggests unpleasant reflections. 

Certainly a rabbit has only to be exposed for 
sale in any of the manufacturing towns to be 
bought directly, and wild rabbits have risen from 
I J", a couple, the price some years ago, to 3^. and 
3^". 6d, in some places. The rabbit is known to be 
a dainty feeder, and there are so many ways of 
dressing his flesh that he is a favourite in small 
households, and children in particular generally 



IMPORTANCE OF HASB/TS AS FOOD. $ 

prefer him to beef and mutton. The importation 
of rabbits has become enormous, and they are sold 
as fast as tliey are imported, though the ready- 
ikinned creatures do not look very tempting. 

Few are aware of the great weight that rabbit 
fanciers have succeeded in getting rabbits to attain. 
Some years ago a well-known sportsman laid an- 
other a heavy wager that he would in six months 
produce a rabbit heavier than any hare he could 
produce ; and although the backer of the hare pro- 
duced a monster from the East Lothians weighing, 
we believe, 13 lbs,, the backer of the rabbit won 
easy with a Patagonian rabbit. 

We saw a statement made by a judge at rabbit 
shows that he had several times weighed rabbits 
that scaled 18 lbs. Now 36 lbs. is not a very bad 
lamb, and as we have proved that we can keep 
rabbits on our farm, and are keeping them as much 
under control as our sheep, living where we please, 
and eating with contented minds what it suits us 
to give them, these great rabbits will be valuable 
to increase the size of the wild breed. The flesh of 
the wild rabbit is always preferred to tame, but the 
flesh of the half-bred wild rabbits is as good if they 
are reared in the open air. When it is generally 
known that rabbits are so kept, any prejudice that 
exists against them will cease. That there has been 



i 



6 RABBITS AS A FOOD SUPPLY, 

this prejudice there is no doubt, and no one would 
care to eat the flesh of a sheep that had lived shut 
up in a wooden box all its life if he could get the 
flesh of a South Down, an Exmoor, or a Welsh' 
sheep which had lived all its life at liberty, brows- 
ing on the various herbs which nature offers it 
wherever it strays. 



CHAPTER II. 

THE RABBIT IN A STATE OF NATURE. 

The Rabbit is not so generally distributed over 
the world as one would expect, considering its 
hardy habits. Through the whole of India, from 
Bombay to Calcutta, we never saw one, nor during 
some years* residence in South Africa, though in 
both countries a hare, not the brown hare {Lepus 
timidus)y but a grey hare, more resembling the 
mountain hare (Lepus variabilis) m his summer 
coat, was frequently met with. 

It may be safely stated that in England a 
rabbit is profitably kept exactly in proportion 
to the poverty of the land on which he lives. 
He will live and thrive in thousands on barren 
sandhills, where a goat or donkey would starve, 
and return a handsome annual sum ; while one 
rabbit is destruction in any large garden, and 
on highly cultivated arable farms even a small 
number destroy many times .their own value of 
produce. This has long been a perfectly well 



8 RABBITS AS A FOOD SUPPLY. 

known fact to every practical agriculturist, and 
he knows he might as well expect profit from his 
sheep if they were allowed to wander at their own 
sweet will over his whole farm, eating a little bit of 
the best of everything, as from rabbits allowed to 
live in this way. 

The Hare and Rabbit Bill is meant to give the 
farmers power to destroy the rabbits, and if it does 
not answer this purpose, another will be passed. 

Rabbits will disappear from our well cultivated 
farms and also from our dinner tables in thousands. 

Probably more poor dry land will be laid out 
as warrens. Sandy hills near the sea are the situa- 
tions best adapted to this purpose, as one side is 
already fenced. Fencing is absolutely necessary 
and very expensive if done effectually, but not a 
corn-field will be safe within a mile of the warren 
if they can get to it. We knew a few acres of 
wheat once sown which was the only bit in the 
neighbourhood, and though rabbits were not at all 
numerous, they found their way to it from all direc- 
tions. Their little beaten highways, coming straight 
across large fields to get to it, could be plainly seen 
from a distance like railroads converging towards 
their terminus. 

To be secure, wire has to be sunk at least 
eighteen inches and more if the ground is hilly, and 



THE RABBIT IN A STATE OF NATURE, g 

should project in some distance and be nearly five 
feet high. That there are three ways of getting the 
other side of a fence — through, under, and over — a 
rabbit is now well aware, and he is a good hand at 
all three plans. It is curious to remember that not 
many years ago they were as completely stopped by 
open wire netting, three feet or even two feet high, 
as the French gentleman out hunting was by the 
first fence he came to, as represented by * Leach,' 
pulling up short and exclaiming, * Ttens, voild un 
obstacle ! ' and that many miles of this netting were 
put down which the present generation of rabbits 
have learnt to jump over as if it were a low wall. 

And we have known a quantity of strong high, 
wire fencing put to prevent the wild deer in Scot- 
land from getting on to cultivated land which used 
to answer its purpose perfectly, but now hinds and 
calves (the stags are prevented by their horns) have 
learnt to creep through on their sides like dogs, 
and it is useless. 

That wild animals in some extraordinary way 
gradually inherit an instinct to avoid a new danger, 
or overcome a new difficulty, is shown by the fact, 
that when the wires for the electric telegraph were 
first put up such numbers of birds killed them- 
selves by flying against them that gentlemen wrote 
to the papers, saying their stock of partridges 



lo RABBITS AS A FOOD SUPPLY. 

would be reduced, and that now hardly any are 
killed. 

Probably the rook and crow of 300 years ago 
would have cared no more for a man with a gun 
on his shoulder than for a cart horse, and now we 
cannot get into the same field with them. 

The management of warrens is well understood. 
We have been told that every five or six years the 
stock should be greatly reduced and fresh blood 
largely imported, as the constant in-and-in breed- 
ing that goes on causes them to deteriorate in size, 
and also to become less robust in constitution. 

In severe weather the rabbits require extra food, 
generally most cheaply supplied in the form of hay 
and turnips. Care must be taken that the ground 
is not overstocked, and when we have also protected 
them from the creatures which prey upon them we 
have done all we can for them. 



II 



CHAPTER III. 

RABBITS' ENEMIES IN A STATE OF NATURE. 

The fox, the cat, the stoat, and weasel are rabbits' 
deadly enemies. 

These last destroy the young probably at the 
rate of a dozen a day. It is curious to notice how 
often, if we find a rabbits* nest, and take out and 
count the little bright- eyed downy creatures, on 
coming in a day or two to see how they are getting 
on we find them all lying dead with a small hole 
in the back of their heads, perhaps eight of them. 
And each of these might have lived a happy life, 
and have given quite a party of children a nice 
meal some day, but for these blood-thirsty little 
devils. We are inclined to write the epitaph over 
them which the gentleman put over his poor baby 
who only lived twenty -four hours : — 

If so soon I was to be done for, 
"What on earth was I begun for ? 

All rabbits seem paralysed when pursued by 
stoats, and surrender; hopping about and crying 



12 RABBITS AS A FOOD SUPPLY, 

feebly, though they will dash off and escape 
from any dog, often even from a greyhound, for a 
short distance. We have driven the stoats from 
them and picked them up, and in a minute they 
have run away as fresh as possible, evidently not 
exhausted. They seem to act as the American 
colonel said the racoons did. They knew he was 
such a dead shot, that when he pointed a rifle at 
them in the tops of the trees they called out, * Don't 
shoot, colonel ; we will come down.' 

The cats are their next worst enemies. These 
coolly take up their residence in their burrows and 
kill a rabbit a day for their dinner ; as often as not 
a doe in young, or giving suck. Yet the Rev. Mr. 
Morris tells us we ought on no account to destroy 
these creatures, and wants the Society for the Pre- 
vention of Cruelty to Animals to prosecute us if 
we do. 

We wish he would rent a rabbit warren for five 
years, and allow cats and stoats to breed in it, and 
tell us the result. We fear he would be out of 
pocket Quite a number of clever men consider it 
wrong to destroy vermin, and call it interfering 
with the balance of Nature. 

But if a man will not destroy the creatures 
which destroy the animals he wants to eat himself, 
he must first let these creatures dine, and then take 



RABBITS' ENEMIES. 13 

the crumbs that fall from their table as his share. 
These naturalists expatiate on the suffering of a wild 
beast in a trap, but care nothing for the sufferings 
of his daily victims, as they struggle in his grasp, 
while he slowly sucks their blood. To be consistent, 
they would allow the wolf in the sheepfold as well 
as the stoat in the rabbit warren. 

The last wolf killed in the British Isles was, we 
believe, killed in the sixteenth century in the north 
of Scotland. 

Two brothers found her den with cubs in it. 
One went in to kill the cubs while the other kept 
guard over the narrow entrance. The cries of the 
young brought the dam, and she dashed by the 
man on guard, who caught her by the tail as she 
entered the hole. * What makes it so dark, Sandy ? * 
said the one inside. * You will find out if the tail 
breaks,' said the other, making desperate efforts to 
draw his dagger. 

We do not like to think of the day when the 
last fox will be killed in England. It is a consola- 
tion to know we shall not be in at that death at 
any rate, and we will prophecy that when there is 
not a live wild fox in England there will not be 
a king or queen on her throne. She will be go- 
verned by a president, possibly a grandson of Mr. 
Chamberlain or Mr. Parnell. Foxes kill a good 



U RABBITS AS A FOOD SUPPLY, 

many rabbits, but do not inflict the injury upon 
them that cats and stoats do. 

Constant wet weather is a cause of destruction 
to thousands of rabbits, but more particularly on 
clay soils. They so enjoy being dry, and their 
little worsted stockings were never meant to get 
wet Full-grown rabbits can stand the rain, but it 
is sad to see the little ones — which must come out 
of their holes and eat, or starve, as their mother's 
milk is no longer sufficient for them — come out and 
sit in heavy rain eating the grass, and then creeping 
back, chilled and miserable, to sleep in their wet 
clothes — we mean wet fur — all night. Any mother 
could guess the consequence. We tried keeping 
rabbits in an open wire enclosure, but the very 
young ones all died in wet weather. 

Although the rain does not hurt full-grown 
rabbits, constantly filling their stomachs with wet 
food does. It brings on liver rot, as with sheep, 
and they die by thousands. The number of wet 
seasons we have had lately have so reduced the 
number of rabbits in this part of the country that 
on rough moors, where a couple of guns could in 
an afternoon easily shoot fifty or sixty rabbits a 
few years ago, last season scarcely more than five 
or six were seen. 

We cannot protect our wild rabbits from the 



RABBITS' ENEMIES. 15 

weather any more than we can our wild phea- 
sants. 

Most people know the various ways in which 
wild rabbits are captured. Unless very numerous, 
or the weather is very fine, they are not always to 
be found when wanted. 

Were an elderly relative, whom we were 
anxious to propitiate, to express a sudden desire 
for * rabbit,' we should much prefer to be able to 
go to our rabbit fold for one, as Jacob did to his 
fold for a kid, instead of having to go out and 
catch one, as Esau had to go and catch his veni- 
son. The old gentleman would very likely have 
enjoyed his curry and left us his blessing in the 
shape of a place in his will by the time our un- 
lucky brother had missed his third shot. 

Many a man will remember with pleasure 
the thrill of excitement with which he used to 
hear the sudden yelp of a favourite terrier who 
had at last started a rabbit, and his anxious 
hope that he would at least this time succeed in 
rolling him over as he crossed a certain opening, 
as the object of his sincere admiration, /the 
keeper,' generally did. And that these hopes were 
so often disappointed, that when occasionally 
bunny did go head over heels at the discharge of 
the gun, it was an open question which of the 



i6 RABBITS AS A FOOD SUPPLY, 

three parties interested, Master Frank, Tyke the 
terrier, or the rabbit was most astonished. But the 
quickness of .hand and eye acquired in learning to 
shoot this nimble little animal has often stood 
men in good stead when their chance of dinner has 
depended on their shooting a black-tailed deer in 
the back woods of America, and in many a sharp 
skirmish, the particulars of which were never 
published. 

It was an evil day for the rabbit when the ferret 
was first domesticated. It is difficult to imagine 
what men could do to get rabbits out of their 
burrows without its aid. To dig them out in 
numbers would be hopeless, and smoking difficult 
and unsatisfactory. If they feed at some distance 
from their burrows or cover, a light net is some- 
times stretched quietly and quickly between them 
and their retreat. This is a favourite plan with 
poachers. A mute dog is then sent round their 
feeding ground, and as they rush back to cover, 
they are entangled and caught. But all this must 
be accomplished very quietly. If a single rabbit 
takes the alarm and is off for home, the rest all 
vanish with him. They * stand not on the order 
of their going, but go at once.' 

In Norfolk numbers of gins used to be set in 
their runs before sunset, choosing a time when the 



■^ 



RABBITS' ENEMIES. 17 

nights were not very dark. The trappers used to 
visit the traps with a lantern at 8 P.M., carry off 
the captured, and reset the traps, visiting them 
again after daylight. This is a cruel plan, and is, 
we believe, now illegal In some warrens there are 
open box traps in all the fences through which the 
rabbits pass to their feeding ground. They learn 
to run through them as a matter of course. When 
they are wanted, the springs are set and the traps 
are all full in the morning. This is the best of 
plans where practicable. The rabbits are caught 
unhurt, and the does can be spared if desired. 



l8 RABBITS AS A FOOD SUPPLY. 



CHAPTER IV. 
THE RABBIT IN CONFINEMENT. 

The fecundity of the rabbit is remarkable. We 
knew two does that in one year had ninety-five 
young ones, and the young does bom early in the 
year bred themselves before winter ; and one of our 
own does once reared eleven fine healthy young 
ones at one litter. But we can find no record of 
their having been reared in any great number on 
any one spot except for a short time. Our search 
for a rabbit farm has been as unsuccessful as Mr. 
Tegetmeirs's search for a poultry farm, and for the 
same reason. All attempts hitherto made to keep 
these creatures together in great numbers have 
been contrary to nature, and have failed accord- 
ingly. 

Houses have been built at an enormous cost 
with tiers of hutches, row after row, one. above the 
other. Actually on one farm a thousand of these 
hutches were put up in this way like enormous 
chests of drawers. But the company failed, for 



L 



THE RABBIT IN CONFINEMENT. 19 

epidemics broke out and carried off the young in 
thousands. 

We should as soon ourselves have thought of 
trying to rear young pheasants by thousands in 
such a place. The rabbit is by nature a particu- 
larly clean animal. There is no smell more un- 
pleasant than that of wild flowers near a rabbit's 
nest. He lives in the open air, and only retires 
to his hole for security during the day from his 
enemies or for warmth. 

In common with all animals which have a fixed 
abode, like the fox, he has the instinct implanted 
in him of never making his home unpleasant ; 
an instinct entirely wanting in animals like the 
horse, cow, and sheep, which, as they never 
lie down twice in the same place in a state of 
nature, have not this instinct, which would be use- 
less to them. 

All sorts of ingenious plans have been adopted 
for keeping the floors of hutches clean. They 
have been dipped in Portland cement that they 
might be washed. Zinc trays are put under the 
backs of the hutches, which slope, and sawdust is 
spread, &c. Rabbits in small numbers can be kept 
healthy in this way, and if given proper food their 
health will be in proportion to the attention paid 
to cleanliness. How necessary this attention is 



20 RABBITS AS A FOOD SUPPLY. 

we should better understand if our olfactory nerves 
were situated in our toes instead of where they are 
when we walk about in what is called a well-cleaned 
rabbit court. But this constant carrying away of 
offensive matter is very disagreeable work, and 
spoils the pleasure of rabbit keeping for children. 
We prefer ourselves to remove the animal from the 
offensive matter, as Nature would prompt him to 
remove himself if we did not prevent him. Ab- 
sence of body is said to be better than presence of 
mind in a railway accident, and the sooner our 
young rabbits are bodily removed from all inju- 
rious smells the better. 

We cannot violate any of Nature's rules with 
impunity, and pure air is as necessary, and even 
more so, than wholesome food to all young 
creatures. 

A Kaffir in a hut like a bird's nest, or a 
Highland shepherd in a cottage with a leaking 
roof and a mud floor, will rear all their children 
on what a London nurse would consider highly 
improper food, while an artisan earning four times 
the shepherd's wages may lose a third of his in a 
handsome brick house in one of our large towns. 
The rate of mortality among, infants under three 
years of age in qur cities is out of all proportion to 
that of adults ; and certainly the way men have to 



THE RABBIT IN CONFINEMENT. 21 

live in crowded towns, in houses many storeys 
high, is very much the way in which our rabbits 
live in hutches, tier above tier, the impure air 
necessarily rising from the lower storeys to be 
inhaled by the dwellers above theni. 

Many people have no idea of the interest that 
is now taken in rabbits, and that pages in several 
publications are devoted every week to this subject. 
The various breeds are all described in books 
devoted to their management. 

We ourselves prefer the great, so-called Belgian 
hare rabbit He is active and graceful, and looks 
a thorough wild animal, like a deer ; whilethe lop- 
eared rabbits, and rabbits of various colours, look 
more cat-like and domesticated. The white An- 
gora is a beautiful breed. If kept in sufficient 
numbers, their fur must be valuable. 

But they are all pretty objects, and since we have 
kept our rabbits in the open air, on the green grass, 
a visit to them has become a pleasure. The does' 
nests are not allowed to be disturbed, so when the 
young are about a fortnight old a great deal of 
watching takes place to see how many will creep 
out ; at first one or two at a time, but in a day or 
so all come out together. 

In the last few days three of our does have 
brought out respectively nine, eight, and seven ; 



22 RABBITS AS A FOOD SUPPLY. 

and these are all now to be seen from the windows 
playing in the sunshine. It is amusing to notice 
at first how much wilder the half-bred wild rabbits 
are than the tame-bred ones. They disappear into 
their hole like magic on the slightest alarm ; but, 
seeing how coolly their dear mamma takes matters, 
they soon become tame themselves. It is also 
remarkable that very wild animals, like deer, when 
they are tamed, become dangerously tame and 
familiar. We knew a young fallow buck knock his 
owner, an old gentleman, down and keep him 
down for a long time till rescued by his gardener, 
badlv hurt. 

We once saw some greyhounds pull down a 
wild deer after a good run in the waters of the 
Buffalo River in South Africa. She was rescued from 
them unhurt, and carried home. She seemed to lay 
in a trance for two days and nights, then she roused 
up, took food from any one who offered it, and 
within the week was playing with and butting the 
very dogs who caught her. These, accustomed to 
all sorts of home pets, acknowledged her as one, 
and they lived on friendly terms. 

Here our dogs and even cats know our tame 
rabbits must not be injured, in fact the cats play 
with them. Yet these same cats will, to our disgust, 
kill the young wild rabbits, and we should shoot 



THE RABBIT m CONFINEMENT. 

them only they are also capital rat killers. A day 
or two ago a little grey rabbit escaped from its 
hutch in the rabbit house and was caught by the 
cat, who was watching for rats, and she actually 
carried it into the kitchen, some fifty yards, and put 
it down alive at one of the servants' feet, just as she 
does her kittens. 

The wild rabbit soon becomes tame if it lives, 
but numbers die soon after they are captured. 
Last July a poor little thing, about three weeks old, 
was found after heavy rain apparently dead. The 
life-reviving process of putting it in an oven for 
short time was adopted. It recovered, and was 
reared, and is now alive. It always knows its n 
tress, and used to be allowed out on the table for a 
little while in winter evenings. It learned to beg 
for sugar like a dog, and would dance across the 
table on its hind legs. It always took refuge on its 
mistress's shoulder at any sudden noise, and tried 
to hide in her hair. The poet Cowper has re- 
corded how tame his hares became. 

But though rabbits are tame, they soon object 
to be handled if they have room to escape. We 
must either be able to put our hand upon them, or 
we shall require the help of nets or some such con- 
trivance. 

People often attempt putting rabbits in a v 



24 RABBITS AS A FOOD SUPPLY. 

enclosure, with the wire sunk to prevent burrowing 
under ; and they seem so happy to have their liberty 
that as long as fine weather lasts all goes well, but 
when rain sets in, * a change comes der the spirit of 
their dreams^ The young die and the old look 
draggled and miserable. Then the bucks some- 
times kill the young. The does have young too 
often to do justice to either litter, and also fight 
amongst themselves. The old rabbits eat dainties 
only meant for the little ones, and run up a bill for 
meal, &c., and general grief ensues. It cannot be 
made a success. The ground also, even if a con- 
siderable space is devoted to them, very soon be- 
comes tainted. 



CHAPTER V. 

IHlabbits as they live at blackerton. 

The struggle for existence which goes on where 
animals live in a state of nature reminds us of the 
Eastern fairy tales of princesses who were from their 
birth watched over by good and evil genii. On the 
one side we see creatures capable of producing an 
almost unlimited number of their kind, all bom 
healthy and likely to live, and become useful as 
food after passing happy lives. On the other side 
we see them so surrounded by enemies that they 
rear comparatively few of their young without judi- 
cious assistance from man. 

As an instance probably not lo per cent, of the 
salmon fry hatched in our rivers ever escape to the 
sea and return as full-grown salmon, while in the 
StormontfieJd fish-rearing establishment near Perth 
they rear something like 8o per cent of the ova 
hatched, and send annually into the Tay, to find 
their way into the sea, some 300,000 or4O0,cx)0 young 
salmon. Again, of the young birds our wild phea- 



26 RABBITS AS A FOOD SUPPLY. 

sants hatch in very wet seasons not lo per cent, live, 
while keepers who understand their business will 
in the same season rear 80 per cent, of what they 
hatch. 

If man wishes certain creatures to increase he 
must act the part of the good genii. He must dis- 
cover who are their enemies and protect them from 
them. 

We have seen that rabbits die m a state of 
nature from three causes — the attacks of beasts of 
prey, from exposure to constant rain, and from 
constantly living upon wet food. 

We easily construct hutches that guard against- 
the first. The fox and the cat may prowl round 
them like the banished Perii round the gates of 
Paradise. The stoat and the rat may rub their 
noses against the wire. There is no admittance. 

We guard against the second by having a thin 
sheet of galvanised iron carefully held over our 
rabbits wherever they go. Rabbits so protected 
are no more likely to suffer from the rain than an 
Eastern prince is to suffer from the sun while 
followed by obsequious slaves holding an umbrella 
over him. And giving them daily a certain portion 
of dry wholesome food counteracts the effect of the 
wet food they eat, and keeps them in perfect 
health. 



RABBITS AS THEY LIVE AT BLACKERTON. 27 

But when rabbits are kept together in numbers 
in confinement they have a still worse enemy to 
contend with in the shape of epidemics caused by 
impure air. We therefore construct our hutches so 
that they can stand out of doors in all weathers, 
taking care that the does have a snug nest to rear 
their young in, and all rabbits a dry shelf to sit on, 
as the ground is sometimes too damp to be pleasant. 
We are on clay, and 1,000 feet above the sea. 

We construct the bottom of our hutch of gal- 
vanised wire netting, which lies flat upon the 
ground, through which the rabbits graze with 
perfect ease, and on which the rabbits sit when 
lifted two or three times a day, thus leaving all 
impurities behind them, and going on to fresh 
pasture, exactly as sheep do when their fold is 
shifted, and, like them, leaving the ground heavily 
manured and much enriched by their presence. 
When the object is to separate two bodies, it is 
not always clear which should move. 

We have heard of a difference of opinion be- 
tween a gentleman and his mother-in-law, as to 
which should leave the house ; and it is stated in 
a life of Sir Isaac Newton that he was one day 
sitting over his study fire, wrapt in an abstruse cal- 
culation, when the servant came and put on some 
coals which, burning freelyj soon made the learned 



28 RABBITS AS A FOOD SUPPLY, 

gentleman's legs most unpleasantly hot. He rang 
the bell furiously for the servant, and implored him 
to take the coals off as his trousers were singeing. 
He was much surprised at being told that if he drew 
his chair back it would answer the purpose more 
quickly. We as confidently recommend moving 
the rabbits from the manure as a better plan than 
moving the manure from the rabbits. 

Whether it is the cultivation of a plant or the 
rearing of a young animal that is the object to be 
attained, it is only by imitating nature in her most 
favourable moods that man can succeed. We 
consider our rabbits live under more favourable 
conditions than their wild neighbours on the same 
farm, and if they die before their time, it must be 
out of what a Yankee would call ' sheer cussed- 
ness.* 

But we do not find they die, and the feeding of 
a few does and their young ones is an interesting 
amusement for children and also a useful one, and 
children like to know they are useful. 

Last year three little girls, the eldest thirteen, 
had in their play-hours entire charge of five does 
and their young, having at one time sixty-seven 
rabbits, all of which lived and throve. As the 
hutches are simply lifted forward whenever the 
rabbits are fed, no cleaning is required. Of course 



RABBITS AS THEY LIVE AT BLACKERTON. =9 

the children must go out in all weathers from 
March to October, But we have a theory, and act 
on it, that it is large nursery fires and hot bedrooms, 
not rain and wind and wet feet, that give children 
colds and coughs, and out they go to the horror of 
nurses of orthodox principles. 

Certainly, during the equinoctial gales a con- 
siderable amount of wrapping up takes place which 
generally proves a failure as far as keeping the 
wearers dry is concerned. Probably waterproof 
hats are borrowed from some elder members of the 
family, but these generally blow off in a few minutes 
and are not recovered till next day. However, 
the expedition returns with rosy cheeks, and no 
worse consequence ensues than that a considerable 
number of small damp garments of 'sorts' may 
be hanging over the kitchen fire in the evening. 
Nevertheless, should any of our readers approve of 
our plan of open-air rearing of rabbits, they are not 
obliged also to approve of the same plan being 
applied to youthful specimens of the genus homo. 

Possibly this disregard for rain and wind may 
be thought to too nearly resemble the habits of the 
large antediluvian arboreal apes, from which some 
modem philosophers believe we are descended. If 
so, some attendant or older member of the family 
had better go out in wet weather. 



1 



I 



30 RABBITS AS A FOOD SUPPLY. 

Then a journal has to be kept in the best of 
writing, and with as few mistakes in spelling as can 
be conveniently managed, in which are recorded 
such important facts as how Lady Mary reared 
eleven young ones at a litter, and how a young 
half-bred wild rabbit escaped from its keepers in 
early summer and took refuge in a corn-field, 
where, after harvest, he allowed himself to be re- 
captured on a Friday, so grown he was hardly 
recognised, and was called ' Man Friday,' until his 
producing a litter proved the name to be inap- 
plicable. 

But even the rabbits reared by children are not 
to be despised as a 'food supply,' and in most 
households two or three rabbits a week are an 
acceptable change to the bill of fare. 

How far they can be reared profitably in large 
numbers those interested will soon find out, and if 
they begin with a few does, and work up, they can- 
not lose much money. It is no longer a question 
of crowding animals, meant to live in woods and 
fields and breezy sandhills, into buildings, and if 
one hundred can live in one field, as we have them 
living, there is no reason why any number of 
hundreds should not live in any number of similar 
fields. 

We hear from the mining districts that wild 



RAUHITS AS THEY LIVE AT BLACK ERTON. 31 

rabbits fetch as much as is. &d. a couple. We find 
most of our rabbits weigh 4 lbs. at twelve weeks 
old. The first four or five weeks they live on their 
mother's milk almost entirely. After weaning we 
give hay and a certain quantity of Indian corn, 
bran, &c., besides green food. We believe rabbits 
could be fattened entirely on clover and clover hay, 
but it is worth while to give Indian corn as well, be- 
cause the manure is so much more valuable. Twelve 
hutches, each holding hvelve rabbits, will, if moved 
twice a day, go over four acres of ground in a season, 
and the quantity of manure deposited by twelve 
rabbits in a day should be gathered in a zinc tray, 
and be seen to be believed. The poorest land must 
in a short time become full of valuable plant food 
if they are fed upon it. 

The hutches are a pretty object on a lawn or in 
pleasure grounds, and do not spoil the turf if often 
moved ; in fact, it grows intensely green and thick 
behind them, and anyone who already has nice 
hutches of the usual pattern will find one or two 
in which ^they can put the young rabbits when 
weaned a great help in rearing them. 

The beautiful white Angora rabbits show very 
well on the grass, and their long silky fur keeps 
very dean. 

As space is not an object, we are able to give 



32 RABBITS AS A FOOD SUPPLY. 

the rabbits plenty of room, giving the does hutches 
5x2 feet and the young ones hutches 6x3 feet. 
If made larger they become heavy to lift. 3 feet 
6 inches x i foot 6 inches is thought a large hutch 
on the old plan. 

The back, one end, and two feet of the front 
are of close boards. One end and the rest of the 
front and the whole of the floor of wire net. That 
rabbits could be carried on this without rushing 
about and breaking their legs we did not believe 
until repeated experiments showed us that a sense 
of insecurity makes them squat ; and though hun- 
dreds must have been moved miles, we have not 
had an accident. They soon learn to look forward 
to the move, and are all grazing on the young grass 
almost before they are fairly on level ground. A 
shelf projects from the closed end of the hutch 
which allows of sufficient room for every rabbit in 
the hutch ; and if the ground is damp, they generally 
sit and sleep on this when not feeding or playing 
about A board with a hole in it connects this 
shelf with the floor, and a false bottom of wood is 
laid under the shelf on the wire when the doe is 
expected to have young. This makes her as snug 
a nest as she could wish for, and of course the 
young from the day they are bom move with her 
whenever she is moved. We take away this false 



RABBITS AS THEY LIVE AT BLACKERTON, z^ 

bottom as soon as the young rabbits can jump on 
the shelf. 

The hutches are made in pairs, the opposite 
ends of each pair being close boarded, so that at 
night, or in rain and wind, the outside pair of each 
four are wheeled inwards and form square. The 
rabbits are ihen perfectly protected whichever way 
the wind blows, while they can be fed through the 
troughs at the back, and also enjoy plenty of light 
and air. We have had the hutches standing like 
this for forty-eight hours at a time and the rabbits 
in perfect comfort. Of course the plan applies to 
any number of fours — twenty or four hundred — and 
they can be so placed almost as fast as two people 
can walk down the line. 

The hutches can either be constructed hand- 
somely for the garden or more roughly and cheaply 
for the farm, and every effort is being made to 
supply them cheaply and to contract for large 
numbers. 

No doubt, that a large profit can be made out 
of rabbits will not be believed until it has been ac- 
complished. But we know that fifty young ones in 
a season is a small average from two does. There- 
fore it is not only possible, but highly probable, that 
200 does managed on this natural plan would rear 
at least 5,000 young ones. These, at twelve weeks 

D 



34 RABBITS AS A FOOD SUPPLY. 

old, should weigh 4 lbs. each, and with their skins be 
worth, at 6d. per lb., 500/. 

Two lads can niove 200 hutches and feed their 
inhabitants in an hour and a half. A wheelbarrow 
or small cart can accompany them with the food, and 
the value of the manure will well pay the labour. 
This seems to leave a largQ margin for profit. In 
winter, having plenty of shed room from November 
to February, the rabbits kept for breeding stand 
under cover, well bedded down with straw and 
lifted from side to side occasionally for cleaning. 
They feed principally on hay and roots, and what 
they eat is scarcely noticed, where there is any sort 
of quantity of these grown, but they would live as 
well out of doors if necessary. 

If the season is mild, the young will be born in 
the end of February, and the hutches can be 
carried out of doors in March, in which month the 
young wild rabbits appear. Our own rabbits are so 
much better off than these when rain and wind sets 
in, that it is easy to imagine a wild doe with her 
drowning young ones asking one of our pets if 
she thought she could induce master to catch them 
all. 

Some readers may think rabbits quite unworthy 
all this trouble, but we would again remind them 
that if pleuro-pneumonia or ripder-pest carry off 



RABBITS AS THEY LIVE AT BLACKERTON, 35 

our cattle and liver fluke reduces our flocks, or if 
men capable of buying beef and mutton increase 
faster than the animals they feed upon, the price of 
these will soon be even higher than they are. 
Numbers will then have to become vegetarians or 
live principally on pork. 

We consider rabbits such very superior food 
for children that any rational plan for rearing 
them in great numbers is worthy of serious con- 
sideration. 



LONDON : PRINTED HV 

9POTTISWOODP. AND CO., NEW-STWKRT SQl/ARE 

AND PARLIAMENT STREET 



/" 



