Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



600048937, 





jIBBBISIk.' ^I 




^ HEALTH^ 


Exhibition 


I/^Xdsooj^ 


FOOD AND COOKERY 


INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 


CATHERINE JANE WOOD. 

Lady SuttTintatdinlef Ihi UotfUal for Sick ChUdnn, Graxl Ortnend Strirt i 
Aulhercs! o/'Im'hi v/ Per/eelim,' ^ffandiook oh Niirsiiif;' 


With as Introductobv Chapter by W. B. CHEADLE, Ki.D.. 
PKyddan lo the HosfUaffor Sick ChUdrat. 


LONDON 

WILLIAM CLOWES & SONS, LIMITED 

i%^ INTERNATIONAL HEALTH EXHIBITION _^0k 

^ PW^ AND 13 CHARING CKOSS, S.W. B~l 

Ba^ — :i: — ^ 


■HL OKE S^i^As.T'fiO. a 



BENGER'S PREPARATIONS 
NATURAL DIGESTIVE FERMENTS, 

SPECIAL FOODS FOR DELICATE CHILDREN d INVALIDS. 



1. UaTTOR PANCREATICUS (BENGEE).— Containing 
the complex digestive principles of the pancreas in a state of great 
activity. Use<l for the preparation of peptonised or partially digested 
foods, and in other ways, as recommended by Dr. W. IloiiERTs, F.R.S,, 
in his Lumleian Lectures. Full directions for use accompany each bottle, 
and no apparatus beyond a jug and saucepan is required. In 4, 8, and 
16 oz. bottles. 2. LIQUOR PBPTICUS (BEN'aEa).-A highly 
concentrated solution of the digestive principles of tlie stomach. A fluid 
pepsine, possessing remarkable digestive power. Dose ; One or two 
tea-spoonfuls in a little water witli meals. It is without disagreeable 
flavour. In 4, 8. and 16 oz. bottles. 3. BENGER'S PEPTO- 
NISED BEEF JELLY.— A delicately flavoured, concentrated, 
partially digested, and solidified beef lea, containing much of the fibrin of 
the beef in a soluble form. A delicious quick restorative. Tins, 2s. each. 
4. BENGER'S SELF-DIGESTIVE FOOD (Panoreatised 
Farinaceous). — A great improvement on the various forms of Leibig's 
food. When mixed with warm milk the pancreatic ferments act on both 
the starchy and albuminoid elements of the mixture. Experience has 
shoivn that delicate children and adults with weak digestions can enioy 
and retain this food when all others disagree. Tins, ir. 6d., is. f>d., and 
S.r. each. 

OPINIONS OF THE MEDICAL PRESS. 

THE LANCET, March S5tli, 1882.—" Mr. Beoger'i admirable preparations.*' 

BRITISH MEDICAL JOTTRNAL, April Ist, 1882.— "Timt aiid use have 
juitifie<l the duims put forward for these )jrcpataliaD£." 

LONBON MEDICAL RECORD, March 18th, 1B82.— " Tbc introdnclion 
of these preparations is a Jistinct advance in therapeutics." 

THE PRACTITIONER, Fehruajy. 1883.— "All these preparations are, 
WE think, deserving of the highest praise, and only lequire to be made known 10 the 
profession to ensure their extensive eiaplojiiient." 

MEDICAL TIMES, Sept. 8th, 1883.— "Benger's Prepaiattons bsve deseTT- 
edly a very high reputation, and are bU largely used." 

MEDICAL PRESS, June 13th, 1883.— "Few modem improvements in 
pharmacy have done so much as Benger's Prepatatians to as^st the physician in his 



BENGER'S PREPARATIONS may be obtained 
through all Wholesale and Retail Chemists, or direct from 
the Manufacturers, 

JUDTTERSHEAD & Co, ! ,! iE;iS:LJ,i Plimacentical aemists, 

EKCHANQ'B STREET, MAlSCH^STliBM 



International Health Exhibition^ 

LONDON, 1884, 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



FOR 



INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 



BY 



CATHERINE JANE WOOD, 

LADY SUPERINTENDENT 

OF THE HOSPITAL FOR SICK CHILDREN, GREAT ORMOND STREET; AUTHORESS 

OF *LAW OF PERFECTION,' * HANDBOOK ON NURSING.' 



WITH AN 

INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER 

BY 

W. B. CHEADLE, M.D. 

PHYSICIAN TO THE HOSPITAL FOR SICK CHILDREN. 



LONDON: 

WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, Limited, 

INTERNATIONAL HEALTH EXHIBITION, 
AND 13, CHARING CROSS, S.W. 

1884. 



/ry 



1. £■ 




LONDON : 
PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED, 

3TAMFORD STKBBT AND CHARING CROSS. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGB 

Introductory i 



PART I. 

FOOD OF INFANTS. 

I. — On the Prevailing Mistakes in Feeding an Infant ii 

II. — The Results of these Mistakes . . . .19 

III.— What Constitutes Rational Feeding . . .26 

IV.— Food for Sick Babes 37 

PART II. 

FOOD FOR INVALIDS. 

I.— Invalids 47 

II.— On Disease in the Digestive and Assimilative 

Organs 54 

III. — Food for Invalids 60 

IV.— Cookery for Infants and Invalids . . .73 

Recipes 83 



FOOD AND COOKERY 
INFANTS AND INVALIDS 

INTRODUCTORY. 



The human body exists in a state of perpetual, unceasing 
change. It is built up of varied matferials, some of which, 

indeed, as for example the mineral parts of bone, arc fixed 
and enduring ; but the majority — and these the most vital 
and important — brain, and nerve, and muscle, and gland, 
are delicate and unstable ; constantly wearing away and 
as constantly repaired. 

There is then ceaseless need for new matter to replace 
old and worn out matter as unceasingly removed. 

The body, however, requires materials for other important 
purposes ; as fuel for combustion, in order to keep the 
temperature of the body at the necessary heat, and for the 
supply of force or energy for every movement and action 
and operation of organic life. 

There is, moreover, in young creatures a need of materials 
for another grand purpose in addition — the structure and 
development of new parts. Now the animal body can 
make little use of raw materials — of the primary elements in 
their simple form — either for building or repair. Muscle, for 
example, consists largely of nitrogen, combined with caxho^ 

[H. .0.] 



INTRODUCTORY. 



r oxygen, hydrogen and sulphur in definite proportions. Yet 
an animal although plunged overhead in an atmosphere 
four-fifths of which is nitrogen, has no power of taking so 
much pure nitrogen, and uniting it with the necessary 
proportion 8f the other elements to make muscle. This 
first step of joining the primary elements together is 
effected by plants, which take up the crude materials 
from earth, air, and water, and form them into definite 
compounds. These, fixed in their stems, fruit, or seeds 
and roots, are consumed by animals, and thus passed 
on to the higher organism. They are, however, not yet 
finally prepared for use in the animal body ; they arc not 
fit for absorption. They require to be rendered soluble, by 
^^^ digestion, so that they may pass easily into the blood, and 
^^^ be carried by the fertilising stream to every cell and tissue 
^^H of every part of the structure. 

^^H The products thus originally manufactured by plants 

^^^1 and used again by animals, arc grouped into four chief 
^^^1 classes, according to their composition and the purposes 
^^^1 which they serve. 

^^^1 The first group is that of the nitrogenous materials, 

^^^1 characterised by the presence of nitrogen, and styled also 
^^^1 albuminates, or proteids. They form one of the distinguish- 
^^H ing features of animal food, in which they are found more 
^^H abundantly than in vegetable products ; the albumen of 
^^H white of egg, casein or curd of milk, the syntonin of 
^^H muscle, and the gluten of wheat, are familiar examples of 
^^H these elements. 

^^H The second group is that of the hydrocarbons, substances 

^^H which contain carbon in high proportion. These are the 
^^H fats, such as that of meat, butter and vegetable oils, found 
^^H both in animal and vegetable substances, but more plentiful 
^^^1 in the former. 

^^H The third group is that of the carbohydrates, also dis- 

^^B tinguished by the presence of carbon, but in less proportion. 
^^H Starch and sugar are common examples of elements in this 
^^H group, the abundant presence of which is as characteristic of 
^^H vegetable as that of nitrogenous elements is of animal foods. 



INTRODUCTORY. 3 

The fourth group b that of inorganic or mineral 
elements — such as the salts of lime, especially the phos- 
phates and carbonates ; potash, soda, iron and — one of the 
most important and largely-used of all — water. 

From numerous observations and experiments it would 
appear that, in order to afford perfect nourishment to the 
body, food should contain materials drawn from each 
of these four groups. And it has been ascertained further, 
with great accuracy in the case of healthy adults, that 
ingredients from each of these classes should be mingled 
in the following proportion. 

Proteids (Nitrogenous elements). , .1 part. 

Hydrocarbons (Fats). ..... o'6 „ 

Carbohydrates (Starch, sugar, etc.) . . . 3 .1 

Salts (Mineral) 0-23 „ 

Water, about . , , . . .15 parts. 

In the case of little children, where the body is still in 
process of construction, and its power, as yet imperfectly 
developed, and in that of invalids, where the machinery is 
deteriorated or enfeebled or injured by disease, these 
standard proportions require to be modified in many 
important particulars. 

We may consider first the modifications required In the 
case of infants, and the principles upon which their dietary 
should be based. And this question of children's food is 
one of the greatest mo;nent. It is not merely a question 
of present good, and of transient importance, but one which 
affects their whole future. There is no doubt an infinite 
variety in the constitution of individuals. In some the 
machinery is weak and faulty in construction, without 
capacity for development into any high degree of strength 
and perfection. 

The peculiarities of original constitution can, however, 
be largely modified by external influences ; the feeble 
and imperfect body, which under adverse circumstances 
would dwindle and die, may be fostered by favourable 
conditions into .some degree of vigour and stability : the 
well-made body of rich possibilities, which under evil 



w 



INTRODUCTORY. 



surroundings would degenerate and grow stunted and 
deformed, may be aided to expand into full glory of power 
and beauty. Of the influences which thus affect the 
development of the young organism food is one of the 
most potent. 

And just as a plant requires not only a rich and 
fertile soil, but one adapted to its special habit and 
character, to bring it to full perfection and luxuriance, so 
does a child require fertile food adapted to its particular 
needs, to enable it to reach the highest degree of develop- 
ment of which it is capable. 

For a little child, as for an adult, it is essential that food 
should contain elements from each class. With children, 
too, as with grown persons, the nitrogenous bodies or 
proteids rank first. They feed brain, and muscle, and 
gland ; protoplasm, the centre of life and energy in every 
cell, is formed out of them and nourished by them. 
Every structure in the body in which any form of force is 
manifested is nitrogenous. Nitrogen, indeed, is essential to 
every vital process. Without it all functions of the body 
languish ; all vigour and power dwindle and die out. 

It will be readily understood, then, that if a sufficient 
supply of nitrogenous matter is of the first importance to 
mature adults, it is still more essential to children ; who, 
in addition to the routine work of maintaining the body, 
have to provide materials and vital energy for the building 
of new structures. 

The second group of elements, the hydrocarbons, is 
inferior in importance only to the preceding. Fat, like 
protoplasm, appears to form a necessary part of every cell, 
enters largely into the composition of brain and nerve, and 
the marrow of bone, and it is stored up for some purpose 
in all nooks and corners of the frame. Probably its chief 
office is to serve as fuel — for food is burnt in the body, 
just as oil is burned in a lamp or coal in a furnace. It is 
thus that the heat required to keep the body at the 
standard temperature necessary to the vitality of its fluids 
and solids is supplied ; and with heat its corelativc — force. 



^^^^^^r INTRODUCTORY. ^| 

^^^H In the case of infants, again, we see that this element of H 

^^^ food must be pre-eminently needed. It is wanted for all H 

tissues formed and forming, especially for brain and nerve, 
" for the marrow cells, which are the active agents in building 
up bone, and for the generation of heat and energy, so 
largely called upon in the period of early growth. 

The succeeding group of food elements, the carbohy- 
drates, of which starch and sugar are the chief represen- 
tatives, do not appear to form parts of the more solid 
tissues as such ; although they are present in the fluids. 
They are lai^ely converted into fat ; and serve also, 
perhaps, as a lighter kind of fuel for combustion. These 
elements seem, therefore, to possess less intrinsic value than 
the proteids or the fats. Yet they are probably essential 
in some form to the perfect nutrition of both the adult and 
growing organism. 

The inorganic or mineral constituents, which form the 
remaining group of food elements, arc far more indis- 
pensable to children than to older persons. They supply 
materials for the permanent structures, such as salts of lime 
and magnesia for the bones, in the form of phosphate and 
carbonate. These earthy phosphates, again, are essential to 
every tissue — ^probably no cell growth can go on without 
them— «ven the lowest forms of life, such as micrococci and 
bacteria, cannot grow if deprived of them. 

Such being the materials required by the growing body 
of the child, and their relative importance ; in what pro- 
portion should each be given ? How much proteid ? How 
much fat ? How much starch or sugar ? Should the propor- 
tions be the same as for grown persons ? 

The answer is supplied by nature ; the proportions 
should not be the same ; for they are not the same in the 
type food, the mother's milk. As an egg supplies every- 
thing from which the chicken is formed complete, with bone 
and flesh, skin and feathers, so milk contains everything 
necessary for the perfect formation and nourishment of the 
child. It contains the nitrogenous proteid in the shape of 
casein or curd, hydrocarbon in the form of butter, carbo- 



INTRODUCTORY. 

hydrate in the form of lactine or sugar of milk, mineral 
matter, and water. 

The proportions in human milk arc : 

Proteids ,..,..., 3'924 

Fat 2' 666 

Incline 4' 364 

Salts o'i38 

Water 88-908 



Now, as will be seen on reference to the table on a pre- 
ceding page, in an adult diet the proteid is to the carbohy- 
drate as one to three ; in woman's milk, as will be seen, it is 
nearly equal. Fat in adult diet is in the proportion of six 
to three of carbohydrate ; here rather more than one to 
two. That is, in the typical infants food as compared witk 
tlie stattdard diet for an adult the proportion of nitrogenous 
matter is nearly trebled, tliat of fat nearly doubled, in pro- 
portion to the carbohydrate. This we may take as the 
standard for an infant ; and to this standard a child's food, 
in whatever form it be given, should very closely conform. 

There is another quality in food essential to the healthy 
nutrition of infants — the antiscorbutic property. It is found 
that with adults every dietary must contain a certain 
amount of fresh vegetable food, or scurvy follows. The 
exact nature of the ingredient which confers the anti- 
scorbutic power has not been ascertained with certainty ; it 
is undoubtedly present in fresh vegetable juices, and has 
been traced to organic acids in combination with potash. Yet 
children fed on fresh milk never suffer from scurvy, although 
they get no fresh vegetables. So that fresh milk must possess, 
in addition to the other essential elements, this mysterious 
antiscorbutic element, which in an ordinary diet is supplied 
by fresh vegetables ; a quality which has hitherto received 
very little recognition. It would seem, however, that con- 
densed milk loses this special virtue, and all the artificial 
foods are destitute of it If, therefore, for any reason a child 
cannot be fed on fresh milk, the antiscorbutic element must be 



I 



INTRODUCTORY. 



specially supplied to the artificial food substituted for milk. 
This is a vital point, essential to full health ; yet its great 
importance is most inadequately recognised in practice. 
Another condition which must not be overlooked in an infant's 
diet is that it should contain a duo proportion of animal food. 
It is difficult to supply sufficient nitrogenous matter in 
vegetable food, which contains it in smaller proportion ; 
and it is practically impossible to supply sufficient fat from 
vegetables ; for in the available forms, such as the farinaceous 
preparations, it is present in far smaller proportions still. 
Even maize, the richest of all grains in fat, contains only seven 
per cent, and that, after the requisite dilution with seven to 
sixteen parts of water, would be far below the necessary stan- 
dard. But apart from this difficulty, it would seem that, 
even if sufficient of these ingredients could be given in 
vegetable form, some portion of food at least should be of 
animal origin— for milk, the type food of infants, is of course 
entirely animal. Animal tissues are probably most easily 
made from anima! materials — and little children brought up 
on vegetable food alone are constantly soft, flabby and 
bloodless, rickety, scorbutic. Yet nearly all the artificial 
infant's foods in vogue are entirely vegetable. Further, it is 
to be remembered that young infants have very imperfect 
powers of digestion. The digestive organs have only just 
come into use, and are designed only to deal with the bland 
and easy nutriment of the mother's milk. During the early 
months of life young animals, and human infants amongst 
them, have little power of digesting starch. It is not an ingre- 
dient of their natural food, milk, which contains absolutely 
none. The carbohydrate element is in the form of lactine, or 
sugar of milk. Yet although nature has not endowed young 
infants with the means of dealing with starch, and it cannot 
therefore be a proper element of their food, most artificial 
foods, with profound indifierence to physiological teaching, 
have starch as their chief ingredient ! 

A second notable deficiency in the digestive power of 
infants is, that of dealing with anything like large masses 
of solid matter. Neither the solvent power of their digestive 



8 INTRODUCTORY. 

juices, nor the muscular power of the stomach is equal to this. 
This is seen in the digestive disorder often produced by- 
cow's milk when coagula of curd are passed from the 
bowels, or rejected by the stomach undissolved ; and in the 
same way the insoluble cellulose or woody fibre of the 
coarser vegetable products prove irritating and injurious. 
Lastly, the stomach of a little child is extremely intolerant 
of food which is in a state of fermentation, or is affected 
with the least taint of decomposition. The products of 
such changes are highly irritating to the delicate organs 
and the vomiting and diarrhoea set up by a little sour milk 
or other food are notorious. 

To sum up, then, the following rules should be strictly 
observed in the diet of infants. 

1. The food should contain the various alimentary 
substances in the proportion which obtains in human milk. 

2. It should possess the antiscorbutic element. 

3. It should contain at any rate a fair proportion of 
animal matter. 

4. It should be in a form easily digested. 

5. It should be fresh and sound, free from all taint of 
acidity or decomposition. 

In the case of invalids, again, the supply of food and its 
character have powerful influence for good and evil upon 
the course of the disease, and may turn the scale in favour 
of life or death. But in this instance general rules cannot be 
laid down with the same precision as with infants. Perhaps 
two or three broad simple precepts may be allowed. 

First, that the food should be in a digestible form. 

Secondly, that it should be as far as possible palatable 
and tempting to appetite ; and thus the art of cookery 
comes as a powerful aid in the preparation of an invalid's 
diet. For the appetite and digestion of the feeble and 
diseased are more or less impaired. 

Thirdly, it must contain the antiscorbutic element. 

We may go even a little further, and affirm that a certain 
amount of nitrogenous matter is also essential, for we know 
that without it strength and vitality infallibly decline. But 



I 

I 



INTRODUCTORY. g 

beyond this the laws of diet for the sick necessarily vary 
widely, according to the disease, and the condition of the 
patient. In this relation, the proverb that what is one 
man's meat is another man's poison is strikingly true. 

The abundance of nitrogenous matter, so beneficial to a 
patient worn down by fever or exhaustion, is deleterious to 
the man with plethora, or gout, or kidney disease. The 
starch and sugar, so feeding to lean and ill-nourished 
persons, are highly injurious to the diabetic. The fat, so 
useful to the consumptive and to the rachitic, is a source of 
injury and discomfort to the bilious and dyspeptic. And 
dyspeptics even differ greatly in their power of digesting 
different kinds of food. The stomach of one can deal best 
with food in a liquid form, that of another with dry solids. 
Others, again, require the assistance of food already partly 
digested by being previously peptonised, by the aid of 
gastric and pancreatic Juices. In some conditions it is 
advantageous that food should contain a certain amount 
of insoluble matter to stimulate the action of the intestine ; 
in others again — as when there is obstruction of the bowels 
for instance, food should contain absolutely nothing which 
is not perfectly soluble, and will be absorbed, leaving no 
debris or residuum behind. Thus both the kind of 
nourishment, and the form in which it should be offered, 
have to be modified in various ways to meet the different 
needs and powers of the weakened or disordered body 
which it is designed to nourish. This adaptation of food 
to special conditions falls within the province of the 
physician, and forms one of the most delicate and important 
features of his art The preparation of articles of nourish- 
ment suited to the varied requirements of disease is, 
however, a thing apart from medical practice, and is based 
upon principles sufficiently well defined. Thus the various 
meat teas, and essences, and extracts, represent nitrogenous 
aliment in a concentrated form, so that a large amount of 
this element can be given in small bulk and in a state 
easily digested and assimilated. Yet many of these 
essences are faulty, from containing a high proportion of 



f 



INTRODUCTORY. 



gelatine and what is called extractive (inferior nitrogenous 
matter), and little of the higher albuminate or protcid. 
The preparations of raw meat juices, however, contain 
almost all the albuminates of the flesh from which they 
are extracted. Farinaceous preparations contain the 
starchy elements in a finely divided state, and in many of 
them these constituents are rendered still further easy 
of digestion by malting, a process which partially converts 
them into dextrine and grape sugar. The special articles 
of diet for diabetes are preparations of vegetable substances, 
from which the elements of starch and sugar have been 
to a large extent removed. The difficulty in this case 
lies almost entirely with the farinaceous staples, that is, in 
supplying them free from the ingredients which the morbid 
digestive action of the diabetic person perversely converts 
into an unusable form of grape sugar. 

On these points it is, however, unnecessary to speak 
further here. A full account of the properties, value, and 
defects of the various forms of infants' and invalids' food 
are given in full detail by Miss Wood in the following 
pages. 

W. B. ClIEADLE, 



PART I. 

FOOD OF INFANTS. 



CHAPTER I. 



ON THE PREVAILING MISTAKES IN FEEDING 




In every enterprise it is essential to its success to make a 
good beginning ; if the keel is well and scientifically laid 
the ship will rise up in its place, graceful and true ; if the 
foundations are carefully planned and evenly dug the 
building will stand firm and secure through the storms ; if 
the woodman rear the sapling in its natural way it will grow 
a fine stately tree — if the mother bring up her babe in ac- 
cordance with the laws of Nature it will develop into a 
healthy child. But, alas ! these little sensitive humanities 
have, in nine cases out of ten, a worse chance of success 
than the puppies and kittens who scramble up together 
with them into existence, and they start in the race of life 
terribly handicapped by the results of others' follies. The 
dogs and cats have at least an unerring instinct to guide 
them in their maternal duties, and if left to themselves 
would bring up their offspring in accordance with great 
natural laws ; but the human mothers, for they are the great 
offenders, separated from the beasts by the higher gift of 
reason, pervert that which God gave them as a guide through 
the intricacies of life, into a means for outraging His laws. 
Ah ! if it were only possible to arouse the mothers to take 
a right view of their great and holy duties— these young 
lives are given into their hands to make or mar as they 
please ; and, guided by selfish considerations, they will more 



12 FOOD AND COOKERY 

often roar than make. It is not only those who inherit 
generations of ignorance and wrongdoing, and whose faults 
are more from lack of knowledge than wilfulness ; but 
those who, because of a higher education, should know 
better, yet with their eyes open bring up their infants in 
reckless disregard of the laws of life ; perhaps trusting, oh ! 
how vainly, to a beneficent nature to undo their mistakes. 

The laws of Nature cannot be set aside ; God has fixed 
them by an irreversible decree ; and, though for a time the 
offender may seem to escape, sooner or later he will suffer 
for his neglect of them. There are certain penalties attached 
to the disregard of them, and they arc as certain to fall as 
the sun is to rise in the morning or set in the evening. It 
is a sad sight to see the poor mothers, themselves already 
debilitated and diseased by early errors in their infant life, 
with infants in their arms, and to know that those mothers 
will perpetuate those very mistakes of which they feel the 
effects so painfully in themselves, sometimes because they 
wish to save themselves trouble, sometimes from the 
erroneous idea that they can alter the laws of their being. 
With a kind of mute resignation, touching because of its 
very helplessness, they will resign themselves to bring up 
"afflicted" children, when if they would but brace them- 
selves to the task, these very " afflicted" little ones might 
become strong and healthy children. 

The material out of which the young life is to be 
developed must be given to the infant by the mother in its 
food, and therefore it is essential that the food should be of 
the right kind, be prepared in the right way, and given at 
the right time. 

There are two leading errors in the feeding of infants 
that work sad mischief in their young lives — the first is 
Improper Food — the second, Improper Feeding. 

To understand tlie first error, we must consider what 
the food has to do ; and how that food is best fitted for its 
functions. 

When the babe is born into the world, it is perfect in its 
being ; each organ is there fitted for its function, each limb 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 



r endowed with movement and utility; the whole man is 
there contained in that little form, but the whole has to be 
developed, and the material that will form the most 
important factor in that development is food. The babe's 
life in those early days should alternate between eating 
and sleeping, and the success with which Jt will perform 
these important actions will mainly depend upon the 
suitability of its food. Out of the food supply the babe 
has to find the earthy matter to harden the gristly limbs 
into bone ; it has to find the fat to clothe its flesh, the 
material to enrich the blood, the tissues to build up the 
^^^^ internal organs, the fibres to develop the muscles, and 
^^^1 beyond that, the heat that nourishes its feeble life into 
^^^1 vitality. It receives the food into its stomach, and during 
^^H the period of rest elaborates from these materials the 
^^H supply for its body. The food supply of an infant has, 
^^H bulk for bulk, to do more work than the aliment of an 
^^H adult ; for it has not only to replace waste and maintain life, 
^^^1 but it has to give out material for developing the frame. 
^^H The growth of an infant in the first year of its life is out of 
^^H all proportion to its subsequent development, and this is 
^^H the outcome of its food. This growth is aided or retarded 
^^H by the air that it breathes, and by the amount of rest that it 
^^^1 is allowed ; but even under very disadvantageous circum- 
^^H stances it grows more rapidly in its first year than at any 
^^H subsequent period of its life. A healthy baby at its birth 
^^^1 should weigh from 8 to g lbs. ; at the end of its first year it 
^^H has more than doubled that weight 

^^H There is only one food provided by nature for infants 

^^H during the early months of their lives, and that is milk ; 
^^H the mother, if in a healthy natural habit of body, is provided 
^^H with this food on the advent of her babe into the world, 
^^H and it is one of her holiest duties to supply that food to 
^^H the little helpless life dependent upon her. This fluid 
^^H contains in itself everything that is needed for the develop- 
^^H ment of the human frame ; it is all held in solution, making 
^^^1 it easy of digestion and of assimilation. 
^^H The analysis of milk shows that it contains Sugar, 

^^1 [H. 10.] 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



Butter, Cascine, Mineral Salts, Water— tlie combination 
varying in the milk of different animals, but all of them 
containing these materials, and out of them are built up 
the tissues and organs of the body. The sugar, and 
butter or fat, are the heat-generating products, the cascine 
or cheese are the flesh- producing elements, and the mineral 
salts enter largely into the bone and blood of the frame. 
These four elements are introduced into the babe's stomach 
in the form of milk, and this is Nature's standard of food 
until the appearance of the first teeth is a signal for an 
increased diet ; all deviations, therefore, from this standard 
must be wrong. 

Our present artificial way of living has, unfortunately, 
introduced many deviations from this standard. They may 
be either primary deviations, that is, the quality of the food 
entirely altered ; or they may be secondary deviations, that 
is, foreign elements introduced into the milk through the 
agency of the mother. Among the most glaring deviations 
from the standard food is that of feeding an infant beyond 
its digestive powers. A mother is sometimes so mistaken 
as to think that milk is not sufficient, and so she endeavours 
to make the babe's diet more like her own, and the tender, 
long-suffering stomach is choked with food off her table, 
tea, bread, a piece of meat or dried fish to suck, beer, some- 
times, alas gin ! In the nurseries of the more well-to-do this 
table of fare is represented by some of the varied foods and 
infants' biscuits offered to the public, or perhaps some of 
the rich dishes prepared for the master's table — in both 
cases the results are the same, an impaired digestion, dis- 
ordered bowels and a weakened frame, besides the present 
evil of a fractious, restless child. 

The second deviation is the admixture of foreign 
elements in the milk, through the agency of the mother. 
Milk is perhaps the most sensitive of all forms of food, and 
absorbs into itself the surrounding atmosphere, or any 
products of the food of the animal in which it is secreted — 
the turnipy taste in butter is familiar to all — the richness 
of its qualities will also depend upon the generous and 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 15 

healthy diet out of which it is made. The poor mother 
will mix gin, beer, and such like, with the milk on which 
she nourishes her offspring ; the rich mother will mix 
wines, spirits, highSy-spiced and indigestible foods, tea and 
coffee, with the food of her babe ; again with the same result, 
a weakened digestion and an impaired constitution. A 
nursing mother should be careful of what she eats before 
suckling her babe. It is wrong to nurse the babe after eat- 
ing a rich, stimulating meal, after taking wine or spirits, or 
after returning from a heated, excited dance, jaded and 
tired. If the mother feels that her milk does not satisfy 
the infant, she should drink a glass of good milk half-an- 
hour before nursing. 

As the infant passes into the first stage of dentition, its 
diet will require to be increased ; but it must still follow the 
simple lines laid down for it by nature, and consume milk 
as the basis of its food, though being gradually weaned from 
the mother. The next element that should be given to the 
child is some form of wheat-flour, of which there are many 
good preparations offered to the pubHc ; one meal a day at 
first substituted for the breast-milk,- until by the time the 
infant is ten months old it is entirely weaned. It may then 
have a small portion of additional animal food, in the form 
of beef-tea, broth, or good gravy ; and by the time it is 
twelve months, may have egg or milk pudding. At 
eighteen months a more generous diet of animal food 
may be given, meat scraped or poimded once daily. 

On the question of giving additional animal food before 
twelve months of age there is a difference of opinion ; and 
as children are not all framed alike, there may be room for 
this divergence — find out what suits the child best and let 
him have it, only do not start with a theory to which the 
little stomach is to be stretched or narrowed. 

Improper feeding consists, in feeding at irregular times 
with improper quantities, in an improper manner. 

Few practices can bring more discomfort and weariness 
on mother and babe than the practice of feeding the infant 
whenever it cries. This has its origin in maternal selfishness. 



16 FOOD AND COOKERY 

for the mother cannot put up with the cry of her child, for- 
getting that a healthy cry is a useful means of expanding 
the lungs, filling them with air and so purifying the blood. 
A little firmness and discretion in the first few weeks of the 
little one's life, will be amply repaid by the content and good 
temper of the babe, and the rest and peace to the mother. 
As a rule the shortest interval between the feeding times 
should be two hours ; in the case of a healthy infant and 
good milk this interval may be extended to three hours 
with advantage. If the mother is always draining away 
her breast-milk, the organ has no time to secrete the fluid 
required, and so the supply becomes thin and unsatisfying, 
and the mother becomes weak and irritable. If the baby is 
always being fed whenever it cries, the stomach is over- 
loaded, it has not that period of rest that is necessary for 
the due performance of its function, its action becomes 
weakened though increased, a habit of vomiting is induced, 
and the bowels, in sympathy coming to its aid, become dis- 
ordered. The moral effect upon the child is, that it becomes 
quite exacting on its mother, and wearies her and itself with 
its incessant alternations of crying and feeding. At night the 
interval of feeding after the first three months may be 
doubled, so that both may rest well, and the infant will not 
cry until taken up, but when it awakes soon sink to sleep 
again, ready to enjoy its morning meal with a healthy 
appetite. Babies may be brought into habits as regular as 
a clock, with a little patience and forbearance at the outset, 
and the poor mothers who have to work and tend their 
infants would be much the gainers by pursuing this plan. 

Feeding with improper quantities is so much part of the 
former parz^raph, that the two can hardly be considered 
apart. The result of feeding at irregular times is that the 
babe takes either too much or too little, for it has not a 
healthy standard of requirement by which to regulate its 
supplies. 

The quantity of each feed will vary with the age of the 
child ; at first it will not take more than two ounces, which is 
about the quantity secreted by each breast ; but after three 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 17 

months the quantity may be increased to four ounces, so 
that in the twenty-four hours the child should take about 
one-and-a-half pints. If the infant has to be brought up by 
hand, the same quantities should be given, and only that 
quantity be put in the bottle, which must be taken away 
when emptied, or the child sucks air, or stale food into its 
mouth. Let the food be made fresh each time, for the 
milk will readily decompose if left standing. 

Nature has provided us with a standard for the manner 
of feeding ; she prepares her meal fresh each time, and only 
in the quantity, required, and she serves it up in a cleanly 
style. It is unfortunately a standard not observed ; for 
either the mother allows herself to drift into slatternly 
habits and thus contaminates her supply of food, or, if she 
uses a bottle, that is allowed to get stale and fusty, either 
for want of proper washing, or from the lazy habit of 
leaving the food in it between the feeding times. Lazi- 
ness and ignorance have much to answer for in the maladies 
of young children, and there is much excuse for a poor 
overworked mother, who has the cares of providing the 
money as well as of rearing the children on her hands ; 
but still the time spent upon these little details, which seem 
of no importance, will be well repaid in the end, by the 
quiet orderly habits of the little one, which will allow of 
the work of the house being done in the intervals, when 
the babe is either sleeping or enjoying a well-earned kick 
on the floor, and it is to the interest of every mother to 
grasp this truth. 

When the preparation of the infant's food is the duty of 
the nurse, the mother must not only teach the imperative 
necessity of cleanliness, but she must satisfy herself by 
personal inspection that her orders are carried out ; and as 
it is a mother's holiest duty to nourish her infant, so if it is 
her misfortune to be unable to perform her function, she 
should do the next best thing, and see that all is done as 
it should be. When a bottle is used, the best shape Is the 
old-fashioned boat shape, with a calfs or india-rubber teat ; 
when the bottle is not in use it should be kept in pure 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



water, and after each feed it must be rinsed out with 
warm water with a little soda in it, thoroughly cleansed 
from every particle of food, the teat taken off, cleaned, and 
kept in the water until wanted. Many mothers and nurses 
have a decided preference for the more modern bottle with 
the india-rubber tube, a very mischievous invention, and 
answerable for many infantile ailments, because it is so 
difficult, nay, almost impossible, to make perfectly clean. 
Any particle of milk clinging about it will turn sour, and 
infect the fresh contents of the bottle, disarranging the 
child's stomach and taxing its bowels, so that it had better 
tw discarded ; still, as such a reform is impossible, more 
time must be given to making it quite clean. Connected 
with this bottle, is the bad plan adopted by some mothers 
of giving the baby the tube and teat alone to suck at, to 
keep it quiet ; this is only a miserable travesty of feeding, 
it induces a bad habit of sucking, and with it the child 
takes in a great deal of air into its stomach. If a baby is 
regularly fed with nature's diet, it will be comfortable and 
happy between the feeding times, and require no such 
petty devices to cheat it into propriety. 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 19 



CHAPTER II. 

THE RESULTS OF THESE MISTAKES. 

Every mother should have some knowledge, even though 
it be slight, of her infant's physical nature, so that she may 
understand in a rational manner how to feed it, and how to 
avoid or correct the minor disorders that may attack it, 
through its food» Such a standard of knowledge is not by 
any means attained by women before entering the married 
state, their experience is more the result of experiment on 
the firstborn. Were a class of mothers found, and put 
through an elementary catechism, as to the internal ar- 
rangements of their babes, they would be found to have 
very vague and contradictory ideas of the functions of the 
stomach or the digestive tract — the first is probably a bag 
that must be kept filled, and the latter a long tube that dis- 
tributes its contents about like a pipe ; as to the peculiar 
provision designed for the digestion and assimilation of the 
food, of this they would not have the vaguest idea. 

Inside that minute frame there is the most elaborate 
chemical works ever devised, and there is a very perfect 
mechanism contrived for the purpose of distributing the 
nutritive materials wherever they are wanted. The di- 
gestive apparatus begins with the lips, and ends at the 
anus ; it is, in fact, a long tube, of unequal dimensions, and 
with varying functions. It is lined with a secreting mem- 
brane called the mucous membrane, which keeps it well 
lubricated throughout its entire length, and in all its folds. 
The condition of this membrane is shown on the tongue and 
inner surface of the mouth ; in health, it should look clean, 
of a healthy pink tone, and moist ; but it is very sympa- 
thetic with the state of the stomach, and betrays disorder in 
that organ, by a furred dirty appearance, or by a crop of 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



minute pustules on its surface, called thrush ; in very serious 
ailments, these grow into small ulcers. This state of mouth 
and tongue is one of the results of unhealthy and careless 
feeding, is caused mainly by sour milk, or by dirty bottles. 
The tongue, fauces and cheeks are all brought into play 
in the act of sucking, and from the glands is secreted the 
saliva that, mixing with the food, prepares it to go down past 
the throat or pharynx into the cesophagus, which is the long 
narrow tube that connects the mouth and stomach. The 
stomach is a membranous bag, in reality a widening out of the 
digestive tube, in an infant, of the size of an egg-cup ; it has 
two openings, the one to admit the food, the cardiac orifice, 
and the other to allow the food to pass into the intestines, 
the pylorus ; during the act of digestion the stomach 
pours out a fluid called the gastric juice, which acts chemi- 
cally upon the food contained in the stomach, and macerates 
and dissolves it ; its action is aided by a slow movement of 
the stomach, by which the food is turned in all directions, 
and the mass thus brought into contact with the gastric 
juice, which is a powerful acid. The pyloric end of the 
stomach opens into the intestines or bowels, which are a 
continuation of the digestive tract, and consist of a long 
tube coiled inside the abdomen or belly, the lower end of 
which terminates at the anus, through which the waste 
matter is expelled from the body. This long tube is hned 
all through its length with the same secreting membrane, 
and has besides, a complicated apparatus of blood vessels, 
which select and distribute the nutriment to every organ of 
the body. There are two other organs of the body which 
assist in the process of digestion, viz., the liver, which 
secretes a fluid called bile, and the pancreas, which secretes 
the pancreatic juice ; both these fluids act upon the food 
on its passage through the intestines. The intestines have 
an automatic action, like the progress of a worm along the 
ground, by which the mass during the process of digestion 
is carried along their whole length. 

In the process of digestion the food is first of all moistened 
with the saliva, and then received into the stomach. 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. jt 

where it is acted upon by the gastric juice, which first 
separates the milk into curds, and then mixes it into a 
third substance, known as chyme; in this state it is passed 
into the first bowel, where it is subjected to the action of 
the pancreatic juice and bile. These act especially upon 
the sugar and fat, and the whole material is converted into 
cky/e, a highly nutritive fluid in a state to nourish the 
various organs of the body by being taken up by the 
vessels. 

The entrance to the intestines is jealously guarded by a 
door, the pylorus, which refuses to pass into the bowel 
any ill-digested or crude material ; so sensitive is this 
opening that the presence of a hard unyielding substance is 
refused passage, and is sent back again to the stomach to be 
subjected to a further action of the gastric juice, and the 
accidental passing of any such material gives rise to the 
well-known pain in the stomach. In the young infant 
there is due provision for the performance of these functions, 
only in a minute delicate manner, and so sensitive is the 
balance between cause and eiifect, that a small particle of 
sour food will suffice to cause disturbance along the whole 
digestive track. 

The stomach and its appendages being fitted only for 
the duty natural to them, it must follow that an unnatural 
demand being made on their functions will lead to a con- 
dition of disease. If any food not milk is given to the 
babe the stomach is at once over-taxed, it endeavours to 
meet the demand made upon it, and so becomes over-active ; 
the result of this is permanently to weaken the organ, the 
gastric juice becomes altered in quality, so that the food 
committed to the stomach is not duly prepared to nourish 
the body. Nature has provided herself with a means of 
ejecting unsuitable food, or food in excess, by the rough and 
ready mode of vomiting ; it is at once her protest and 
remonstrance, but though of all means the least harmful, 
still it induces an irritable habit of stomach, and may be 
made use of too often — as the foundation of habits, even 
physical habits, is laid in infancy, and the digestive organs 



I 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



may be brought into good or bad order by careful and 
judicious training-. If we think for one moment it must be 
obvious that the stomach of a wee babe cannot dispose of 
the same food as an adult, and therefore if it is required to 
extract nourishment out of what is beyond its capacity, 
that it must be permanently weakened or injured. How 
many martyrs to indigestion would be able to trace the 
beginning of their trouble to injudicious feeding, if only 
their recollection carried them back so far. 

These mischiefs extend to the bowels. The stomach 
having done its little best to macerate and dissolve the 
unwise diet given to it, is forced to pass on some of the 
material ill-digested into the intestines ; these organs, 
jealous of the integrity of their charge, pass on the 
intruder with the greatest haste, to the manifest discomfort 
of the poor infant, who lies with legs drawn up, and 
belly tense, uttering restless cries of pain, until an attack 
of diarrhcea puts an end for the time, to its sufferings. 
The undue action of the bowels has left its mark behind, in 
an inflamed, irritable condition of the canal, and in a 
starved condition of the organs that are crying out for 
nourishment. The poor little babe becomes thinner and 
thinner, and the mistaken mother, in her efforts to fatten 
her child by increasing its food, makes bad worse. There 
is all the difference possible between a child nursed, even 
partially, and one brought up by hand on improper food ; 
the one is contented, comfortable and plump, the other is 
fretful, restless, irritable, and flabby — perhaps it is not 
saying too much to hint at the probable origin of a bad 
temper in the stomach ! but it is quite certain that a peevish, 
irritable baby is so, because its food disagrees with it. 

Next in importance in its mischievous results is 
irregular feeding : irregular in quantity and in interval. 
The functions of the body are most efficiently performed 
when due regard is paid to the need of rest even in organs 
out of sight ; too little rest enfeebles the action, we know 
this of our own experience ; a prolonged effort whether 
mental or physical brings on exhaustion, and a longer 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 23 

period of repose is necessary to restore the tone — if the 
excessive action is persisted in, even when the organ is 
crying out for rest, it becomes permanently enfeebled and 
ultimately breaks down. 

As the stomach is not simply a bag, filled and emptied 
by taking food ; but is a muscular organ, with an appro- 
priate action, both muscular and secretive, brought into 
play by the stimulus of receiving food, it must follow that 
it requires an interval of rest to alternate with its period of 
action. Neither does the stomach simply receive food and 
pass it on, the process of digestion is one requiring time. 
The contents of the stomach have all in turn to be subjected 
to the action of the gastric juice, before they can be passed 
on into the bowel ; and if the mother is always feeding 
her baby when it cries, too much food is kept in the 
stomach and it is not properly digested ; moreover, the 
organ becomes fatigued and unfitted for its work ; it has 
no period of rest, and is obliged to do its work in a hurried, 
imperfect manner. One meal should be entirely disposed 
of before the next is given. 

It is not healthy to give food between meals, it spoils 
the appetite, and brings the child into greedy habits. At 
night the period of rest given to the stomach must be 
longer, and except the child is ill, it should not be 
awakened to be fed. Nurses in hospitals get into the bad 
habit of awaking comparatively healthy children for 
feeding, forgetting that sleep is meat and drink to the 
infant. On the other hand, irregular intervals are hurtful, 
the rhj^hmical action of activity and rest is interrupted, 
the appetite unsatisfied at its usual time begins to feed on 
itself, and when the meal is given it is not in a healthy 
state to enjoy it. The temper also becomes fretful and 
impatient, the healthy sensation of hunger passes into that 
of exhaustion, affecting not only the stomach but all the 
organs of the body ; they languish for their supply of 
nourishment — " too tired to eat " may be baby's condition 
as well as its mother's. 

The quantity given must be regulated by the size of 



r 



FOOD AND COOKERY 

the receptacle. In rest the stomach is about the size of an 
■cup ; it is elastic, but only to a certain extent, and if 
tightened out like a drum, cannot properly perform its 
function of moving the food about, and also in course of 
time it loses some of its elasticity and tone. The infant 
suffers great discomfort from an over-distended stomach, 
which it can only relieve by vomiting, and as it has this 
remedy at hand the evil is sooner got rid of, and its ill- 
effects minimised. Stitl this is no reason for continuing the 
practice ; it is a wiser course that the babe should leave the 
breast before quite satisfied than that it should be fed until 
it vomits ; the result in the long run must be an irritable 
stomach and flatulency. 

The infant's condition is the best indication of its suc- 
cessful feeding. A rati on ally- fed baby will be happy and 
comfortable ; its face will look at rest ; it will smile and 
laugh upon the world with the inconsequence of ignorance ; 
it will be a matter of indifference whether it is in the arms 
or in the cot, and it will learn patience and self-control. 
Yes, it is not too early to teach the little one that lesson, 
that though a person of great importance, yet it must wait 
sometimes. The habit of crying for a thing, and crying 
until it has what it cries for, is begun in the earliest infancy ; 
and in giving in to that human weakness, the mother is pre- 
paring a rod for her own back, which will end in sorrow and 
bitter self-reproach. 

'■ I'ceamed, and I'ceamed, and I'ceamcd till I got it," 
was the triumphant utterance of a little mite, of a little 
over two years, who had so early learnt her guardian's 
weak point ; and experience teaches us that the " ceaming " 
will be carried on in a modified form through life, until 
some bitter discipline is mercifully sent to correct the over- 
indulgence of early years. Children, even at this tender 
age, are very knowing, and quickly judge if they are going 
to be masters. A young thing was heard muttering to 
herself one day, " It's no good my crying now, Aunt Janey 
doesn't mind it," and theresultof Aunt Janey's indifference 
was very soon evident in the more contented happy child- 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS, 25 

life. It is most mistaken kindness to attend to the baby's 
cries, unless there is a cause for them, and that the mother 
will soon know. A passing nod, or word, and smile will 
satisfy it with notice ; it does not want rocking, or thumping, 
or shaking, or being fidgeted at, tired out itself and its 
nurse likewise, by going through a series of gymnastic 
perf*ormances. 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



CHAPTER III. 

WHAT CONSTITUTES RATIONAL FEEDING. 

In other words, how may an infant be so fed that his 
body shall develop and his health be maintained in this the 
first stage of his existence ? 

It will be necessary first to understand what purposes 
food subserves in the body, and how those ends are attained 
by the appropriate diet of infants. 

When the babe begins its independent existence, it has 
to find the materials for its development in the food given 
to it ; it has to grow as well as to live ; in other words, it has 
to maintain its force and build up its frame. The body is 
a wonderful piece of mechanism, capable of movement, 
progression, development, repair, self-adjustment and self- 
feeding. It may be likened to an engine with cranks, levers, 
wheels, pulleys, etc., having in it a boiler, fire, and force- 
pump ; this machine once set going never stops until it is 
finally taken down and put in the grave ; the repair, 
feeding, stoking and supply of new material is all continued 
whilst it is working and is part of its working. It is not only 
a mechanism, but it contains the intelligence to direct, 
control, and regulate the mechanism, and the laboratory to 
prepare the fuel that gives it force. Such is the babe and 
such is the man. " fearfully and wonderfully made ;" the high- 
est order in creation, designed to expound the Maker's glory 
and wisdom. In all engines there is a motive-power, supplied 
by the steam generated primarily by the combustion of the 
fuel which gives out heat ; heat is converted into force, force 
into motion, motion into work done ; in the friction and 
daily wear and tear there is waste of material, which is re- 
placed by man's agency, and the fuel is supplied 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 27 

by the stoker ; but the body is self-acting, self-feeding. 
The source of its energy is the food by which it is 
nourished ; the materials out of which it constructs its 
mechanism, and repairs the waste, is the food ; the heat 
that is necessary to maintain life is derived from the com- 
bustion of the food ; the fluid that flows to every part, 
vitalizing all in its passage, draws its supply from the food ; 
the mental effort that regulates the engine, and that goes ' 
forth out of itself to help others, derives its potentiality 
from the food ; the food is the beginning and end of it all. 
In infancy the fuel has to be put on the fire by the mother or 
nurse, and it is no good their putting on what will not bum. 
The body requires a constant supply of suitable materials 
for its work, and these materials must be given in such a form 
that it may make best use of them. The materials required, 
are nitrogenous matter, hydrocarbons or fats, the carbo- 
hydrates or starches and sugars, and salts. The first class, 
the nitrogenous matter, is of the highest value ; out of it the 
muscles and ingredients of all the important parts of the 
body have to be taken ; it forms the essential agent of life 
and growth, there could be no existence or development 
without it The hydrocarbons, or fats, are chiefly necessary to 
provide the heat, and therefore force, in all its forms ; the 
fat also serves as a padding and clothing to keep the 
internal parts warm. The carbo-hydrates, or sugars, seem to 
supply light fuel, and to store themselves up as a reserve of 
force ; the mineral salts enter into the composition of the 
blood, bones, and teeth. Lastly, there is the water, which acts 
as the universal solvent, and supplies moisture to the body. 
Though all these elements may be found around us, in the 
air we breathe, and the earth we walk on, still, we can make 
no use of them unless they are 'given in some compound 
form, and for the babe the best vehicle, and the only food 
that contains them all, is milk. They are found in vary- 
ing proportions in different milks, and if it is necessary 
to bring up the infant by hand, the milk used must 
be brought as nearly as possible to resemble human 
milk. 



FOOD AND COOKERY 

COMfARATTVE ANALYSIS OF MlLKS. {PayCH.) 





H.o^. 


Cows'. 


M^t<. 


Goals-. 


Nitri^enous matter and insoluble salts . 


3-3S 
3'34 
3-77 
8954 


4-55 


1-70 
90' 50 


4; 5° 
5-So 

85-60 


Lactine, sugar of milk, sails , . . . 






.CO 


.00 


.00 


IOC. 



More Recent Analysis by Gorup Besanii^. 





Huidan. 


Co«»-. 


Nitrogenous matter— curd 




4-305 
8S-,S 


Carbo-hydrales— sugar of milk 








,«, 


■00 



There can be no doubt that the rea.sonable and natural 
way to bring up the child is at the breast, and it is a shame 
and a dishonour to motherhood to give up this duty for 
any reason short of imperative necessity ; a mother who 
will face the self-denials necessary, and lead a rational 
healthy life, will reap the reward, in the comfort and health 
of her nursling ; but, sad to say, there are some women who 
will take upon themselves the responsibilities of the married 
life, yet who are quite willing to sacrifice the wellbcing of 
those infants they have brought into the world to their 
selfish ease, or their false delicacy. Every woman who 
seeks the married state is taking upon herself duties, duties 
some of the highest that can devolve on any human being, 
and, in the sight of God, she is chai^eable for the care, 
health, moral wellbeing of the babe she has asked from 
Him. With the infant that He gives, is also given the food 
which that infant will require, and His intention is that the 
mother shall nourish and cherish that babe in her bosom, 
and learn through self-denial and self-sacrifice the highest 
expression of love. The mother is henceforth to give her 
life to her young ones, she is to find her life in their life. 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 



rand she is to keep her health pure and wholesome for their 
sakes. 
The next best resource is to have a wet-nurse, and if a 
healthy clean woman be selected, who has no constitutional 
taint, the babe should thrive. The selection of the wet- 
nurse should be intrusted to the medical adviser of the 
family, and he will seek for one whose child is about the 
age of the foster-child, and who has an ample supply of 
milk, then all will ^o well ; this, however, is not always 
possible because of the expense. 
If both the mother and the wet-nurse are out of the 
question, then the child must be fed by hand, and it is most 
important that this should be done rationally. Nature has 
given a standard diet to which she expects every one to 
conform, on pain of punishment, and chemical research has 
analysed that food, so that we may be able, as nearly as 
may be, to imitate it. Asses' milk is the next best 
substitute for human milk, the curd is light and easily 
digested ; but it is often unattainable, except in large towns, 
and then it can only be the food of the rich, so that, as a 
rule, cow's milk has to be relied on. It may seem a very 
simple process, by the admixture of a little water, to bring 

■ cow's milk to the same standard as mother's milk, but this 
is not the only objection ; the curd is heavier, and is much 
more likely to disagree with the stomach, and to disorder 
the bowels ; this may be partially got over by boiling the 
which causes the curd to coagulate in lighter masses. 



milk, ' 



and it also protects the milk against infection. It has un- 
fortunately been proved of late years, that milk can become 
the means of conveying the poisons of special fevers. 

If cow's milk is to be used, it must be boiled and diluted 
with three parts of water, and have sugar added, in the 
proportion of a small tablespoonful to a pint For the first 
month, the infant will require i^ pint of diluted milk in 
the 24 hours ; at three months, 2 pints, increasing to 3 pints 
by six months ; it requires more in bulk because the cow's 



weaker, 
lite of al 



[H. lo.] 



, it may be found that the cow's milk 



30 FOOD AND COOKERV 

does not agree, it may cause colic, vomiting and diarrhcea. 
There is yet another form in which it may be tried before 
finally abandoning it, and that is as condensed milk. Con- 
densed milk has the advantage of being more easily 
digested, and of keeping perfectly fresh ; it must be freely 
diluted, commencing with i teaspoonful to 30 of water, 
increasing the strength gradually, until at six months the 
full strength i in 10 is reached. It is a very serious 
mistake to give it too strong, under the erroneous idea that 
the child will get more food. 

There are now two styles of condensed milk in the 
market, the sweetened and the unsweetened, the latter 
being sometimes preferred ; but, after all said and done, 
these are unsatisfactory substitutes for the real thing, for 
however perfectly the component parts may be imitated, 
still there is always lacking the living principle, which in 
some mysterious manner conveys a virtue to substances 
mixed in life, which can never be equalled by artificial 
compounds. 

If all kinds of milk absolutely disagree with the child, 
then some other food must be found that will suit the 
stomach, only milk should not be given up, until it has 
been submitted to a most patient, ingenious trial. Some 
parents are only too ready to say, " Oh ! the milk is not 
sufficient, and so we are giving it something else," as 
though they were proud of the fact The cats and dogs 
bring up fine healthy children on milk, and surely we can 
at least do as well as they. 

It is very unwise to try the patent foods for an infant 
under six months of age ; they are all too heavy, and are, 
besides, deficient in nitrogenous matter and fat ; a child so 
fed will grow up rickety and unable to cope with acute 
disease ; it will have deficient vitality and feeble powers of 
repair. The grand defect of all these foods is that they are 
vegetable and consist mainly of starch. Arrowroot and 
corn-flour are almost entirely deficient in nutritious qualities, 
they are of all foods the poorest ; barley, sago, tapioca and 
rice are all open to the same objection, in a less degree ; 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS, 31 

oatmeal contains more nutrition than the above-mentioned 
grains, but it has also more indigestible matter. A very 
useful farinaceous preparation is fine entire wheat-flour, 
that prepared expressly for infants and invalids. 

A very useful food, and a good vehicle for the conveyance 
of milk into an irritable stomach, is bread jelly* only it 
must be made with great care, and many mothers object to 
it because of the trouble. Another excellent substitute for 
milk is whey, with three teaspoonfuls of boiled milk and 
one small teaspoonful of cream for each half bottle. 
Barley-water may be used, with the addition of cream, but 
to all these foods the quantity of milk must be gradually 
increased, as the stomach is able to bear it 

Many mothers are tempted to neglect their maternal 
duties, or to supplement them, by the lavish introduction 
of Patent Foods : " Perfect substitute for mother's milk ; " 
" excellent substitute for mother's milk." Now there is no 
such thing, it is a delusion ; not one of these foods can 
claim to be that ; they are valuable in their way, and in 
their proper place, but this is not their place. First of all, 
they are very deficient in fat, in which human milk is parti- 
cularly rich ; secondly, they are overburdened with starch, 
which is not in human milk, and starch is not an element 
that can be used by the infant stomach, it taxes the diges- 
tive powers before it is converted into sugar and fat. This 
last objection has not the same weight, when speaking of 
malted foods, as the action of malting converts the starch 
into dextrine and sugar. Then to give the same relative 
nutritive value, the bulk of the food must be increased, 
which is a matter of importance in a small infant. 

After the age of six or seven months, these foods are in 
their right place, as a supplement to mother's milk, but 
not as a substitute, and it is right that the public should 
know what place these foods occupy in the nourishment of 
their infants. The question of how to feed sickly chil- 
dren will be treated in a separate chapter, so that the medi- 
cinal and other remedies would be out of place here 

* See Recipes at the end of Part II. 

C. 7. 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



Enough has been said to draw attention to the fact that any 
food that is not milk, or that has not milk as its basis, is 
not a rational food for an infant. 

We now reach the vexed point, how to proceed after the 
age of six months, and on this point there is much differ- 
ence of opinion. One authority says, continue the animal 
food, in the stronger form of meat-extracts {broth, beef- 
tea, etc) ; another says, by no means give the child animal 
food, other than milk, until after two years of age. Each 
authority will illustrate the precept by a successful specimen 
of a healthily fed child. What is a poor bewildered mother 
to do, who wishes to do all that is for the best for her 
offspring ? 

Practice b better than theory, any day, and mothers will 
often solve a question over which scientists are wrangling. 
The construction of the human frame shows that man is an 
omnivorous feeder ; that in all individuals there is an 
idiosyncrasy that is the peculiar attribute of the individual. 
It is the egoism that separates the one from the other, the 
mysterious soul that stamps itself early in life on the infant, 
and that through life just makes each to differ we know 
not how, from his fellow. We have not all been turned 
out of one mould, framed to one pattern, and therefore it is 
quite out of the question to lay down a hard, fast rule of 
diet ; what will suit one will not suit the other. 

After the age of six months, when the formation and 
cutting of the teeth is marking a crisis in the child's history, 
and when the increased development is demanding 
increased nutrition, in some manner more food must be 
given, and the food that will agree best with the child 
is the food most suitable. The test of a suitable food 
must be looked for in the child's body, and in its 
general condition, and not be hunted up in books and 
treatises. 

If the child sleeps quietly after its meals, or seems 
happy and at ease, if it is not troubled to a great extent 
with flatulency, if the bowels are opened easily twice a 
day or so, by a semi-solid motion, if its ilcsh feels firm and 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 



plump, and its temper is good, then its food is agreeing 
with it, and it is deriving nourishment from it 

At this age another meal must be introduced once a day 
if the baby is at the breast, and the mother must use her 
own experience in the selection ; any one of the standard 
foods may be used, according to directions ; or biscuit- 
powder, or entire wheat-flour ; if the child is being brought 
up by hand, one bottlcful of the food may be substituted 
for the milk, and the milk itself should be given stronger, 
almost undiluted, if the stomach will bear it. 

On no account should bread, as bread, be used as an article 
of food at this age ; the ordinary whcaten bread of the 
household has been despoiled of many of the ingredients 
required by the infant, and in the process of baking the 
starch granules, and lactic acid, the product of fermentation, 
are fixed in the loaf in a highly indigestible form ; it can 
only be used with safety in the form above mentioned as 
bread jelly. Arrowroot and corn-flour also must be struck 
off the diet-list ; they are nearly pure starch, and as such 
are not nutritious. Children fed on these foods grow thin 
and feeble ; they are voracious, in spite of the food they 
take, wasting daily more and more till they die. 

Prepared barley, sago, tapioca, rice, are all for the same 
reason unsuitable foods, they are too starchy, and are only 
food because of the milk with which they are prepared. 

Oatmeal is a valuable article of food, it is nutritious, and 
forms the staple diet of adult and child in the North 
country ; it can hardly be used with advantage until the 
infant is eight or nine months old, as it taxes the digestion, 
but if it agrees with the child it may be continued with 
advantage as part of its diet. 

If the child begins at this age with animal food, plus the 
milk, it should be given in the form of beef-tea, or broth, 
carefully prepared, half a teacupful a day at one time, 
gradually increased. 

The appearance of the teeth in the gums is Nature's sign 
to the mother that she is preparing the child for an entire 
change in the manner of feeding, and the mother should 



34 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



follow her lead by the gradual weaning of the child from 
the breast, so that by the age of twelve months it is entirely 
weaned. It is not right to make this change suddenly, it 
is a tax on both babe and nurse, nor on the other hand is 
it right to suckle the infant after the twelfth month, the 
infant requires more food than the mother's milk supplies, 
so that it becomes star\'cd, rickety, delicate, ill-nourished, 
and the prolonged nursing exhausts the mother's strength, 
so that she is not able to secrete a nourishing fluid. It is 
one of those infringements of Nature's laws which bring 
their own punishment. 

The child now being weaned, it may have an increased 
diet of animal food with advantage, in the shape of an egg, 
or some light custard pudding (the egg is more likely to 
agree if given in the form of a pudding), and some under- 
done meat, finely minced or shredded into a pulp, with 
gravy or beef-tea ; porridge with treacle or milk, boiled 
bread and milk, or a plate of the entire w-heat-flour. This 
lA a good diet until the age of eighteen months, or two 
years. It is not a good plan to give bread and butter to so 
young a child, bread and milk is much more wholesome, 
and is a vehicle for a good supply of milk. Milk should 
form the chikl's drink until quite four or five years of age, 
when a variety may be made by the use of cocoa for one 
meal ; tea and coffee are not proper for children, and }io 
form of alcohol except by the order of a doctor. 

Fruit well cooked and given in small quantities sweetened, 
is an important food, and one unhappily too much neglected 
in this country. It is not particularly nutritious, but it 
contains salts useful to the blood, and medicinally it acts as 
a purifier ; it agrees very well with young children, and is 
readily eaten by them. The most wholesome time to give 
it is in the morning, at breakfast and for luncheon, not in 
the evening or at going to bed. 

It is a very mischievous practice to let the child sit at 
the table with its elders, and be given a piece here and a 
piece there, with a little taste out of a glass ; the food 
prepared for the elders is not fitting for the young stomach, 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS, 35 

and moreover, it spoils the healthy interval that should 
elapse between each meal, and teaches the child greedy- 
habits. The little taste out of the glass may be the 
foundation of that curse of man or woman's life, a craving 
for strong drinks. Many a drunkard unfortunately dates 
his love of drink from the glass at his father's table. 
Parents are not the only offenders, nurses and servants do 
the same to the impairment of the child's digestion. 

The intervals of feeding may be increased to four hours 
after the age of eighteen months, and it is unwise in the 
case of a healthy child to anticipate the meals, the stomach 
then loses the interval of rest which it requires, in cdmmon 
with the other organs of the body, to fit it for its duties. 

The whole of the above chapter may be summed up in 
a few words. 

Find out what form of food suits the child's stomach 
best, and persevere with it ; do not start with theories to 
be reduced to practice, perhaps at the expense of the child's 
health — an exclusively animal diet, or a farinaceous diet, or 
a mixed diet surrounded with a hard and fast line, over 
which it is a matter of principle not to step; study the 
babe's nature, and found your practice upon the result of 
observation. 

Avoid giving everything that you know to be unsuitable, 
which your common sense should point out to you ; let the 
food be simple, simply cooked and given at regular 
intervals, and not in too great a quantity at a time. 
Remember that it is only an elastic egg-cup you have to 
fill, and that after that egg-cup has emptied itself of its 
contents, it requires a period of rest to prepare for its next 
time of work. Also remember that the stomach will settle 
down to its work much better, if it is allowed to become 
accustomed to one style of feeding, than if perpetual 
experiments are being tried upon it, and that regularity in 
time and regularity in quantity are important factors in 
securing a healthy vigorous digestion. 

This chapter must not conclude without a few words on 
prolonged nursing : It takes its rise from an erroneous idea 



36 FOOD AND COOKERY 

that, if the child be kept at the breast, it will hinder another 
pregnancy ; in other words, the welfare of the child is to be 
sacrificed to an old wives' fable, and both mother and 
infant are to be weakened by continuing a process contrary 
to nature, and, for a visionary idea, are to make their lives 
a burden. If only parents would follow Nature's laws, and 
not intrude their ignorant thoughts, to mar the symmetry 
of her plan, our hospitals would be half empty ; certainly, 
the patients that feed a children's ward are either victims 
of over-feeding, or under-feeding, or improper feeding. If 
the mother of a rickety child is cross-examined as to 
the previous history of her patient, she will be forced to 
own one of two things, either that the babe has been fed 
on the adult's food of the parent, or that it has been kept 
too long at the breast. 

It stands to reason that a mother cannot go on for ever 
nourishing two lives, especially when it is very often a 
hard-working, half-fed striving parent, who is terribly 
handicapped in the race for life already ; it is altogether 
a mistake on her part, and will cause evils to herself and 
her offspring, that a lifetime will not remedy. Every pang 
that a mother feels from her infant's teeth is a sharp 
reminder to her, that she is offending Nature's laws, and 
that she must mend her ways. 

The process of weaning should be a gradual one, and 
may be commenced at the age of seven months, by sub- 
stituting one meal of prepared food for the breast ; it should 
be quite finished by the time the infant has reached the age 
of twelve months, and if it be done carefully, and as the 
child is able to bear, it will be got over very well. 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 37 



CHAPTER IV. 

FOOD FOR SICK BABES. 

A SICKLY ailing child is a pitiful sight, appealing at once 
to our compassion and sympathy ; its plaintive wail and 
questioning eyes, almost reproachful in their weariness, 
tired out ere life is half begun, missing its heritage of 
happiness and comfort, a partner in the sufiering lot of 
humanity, often the victim of selfishness and ignorance, 
what is there in life half so sad ? And when we add to 
this, the thought that that miserable start in life will dog 
its steps to the end, that scored upon the various organs 
in its body, will be permanent marks of bad feeding, and 
irrational food, it should surely make us most careful, most 
diligent to learn and follow out the natural mode of 
feeding. It is too much the habit to shake the head and 
talk sentimentally of " the poor little sufferers," or in pious 
tones to lament the sore affliction of God, in some wasted 
frame, when after all, God has had nothing to do with the 
mother's pig-headedness, which has turned a promising 
nursling into "a little sufferer." However, one half of 
mankind must always be occupied in rectifying the 
mistakes made by the other half, so it will be well to 
learn how to remedy these poor little stomachs, so as to do 
them the most good. It is a very difficult problem to 
grapple, how to feed a sickly child ; the food is the cause of 
it, and the food is in fault, and yet food it must have, or it 
will die. The diseased organs are those that take part in 
digestion, they want rest, and yet rest they may not have ; 
nothing but patience, love, and gentleness can deal with 
this problem. There are some people from whom a child 
will take food at once, and there are others who can only 
succeed after a battle ; the one has tact and sympathy with 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



I 



the child, the other probably thinks of herself first and the 
child last 

It will never do to start feeding a sick child in a hurry ; 
the whole mind must be given to it, and evciy little dodge 
and wile brought into play, to get the food down without 
a battle, I have often heard a parent say, when leaving 
a patient, " He won't take a thing for me, he's not had a bit 
nor a sup for days." Perhaps a look into the mother's 
face is sufficient reply ; though a mother, she has not 
learnt a mother's ways, and the over-indulgence of younger 
days is now showing its fruits. The little rebel soon 
learns that he is not to have his own way, and at last 
takes the necessary food without a murmur. The struggle 
in the first instance must be faced, and it is mistaken 
kindness to postpone it, under the idea that the child will 
become more tractable in time. The longer he feels his 
own strength, the more determined will he be in his evil 
ways, and the struggle, when it docs come, for come it 
must, or the child will die, will be more exhausting to the 
patient, and trying to the nurse. I have known of one 
or two sad instances, in which a child's life has been 
sacrificed to this false and mistaken kindness. A child 
may be caught with guile, I do not mean anything 
approaching to falsehood or deceit ; nothing can ever justify 
the smallest departure from truth, nor will it answer in 
the long run ; but that artifice by which the patient's 
wayward attention is diverted from the disagreeable task, 
and advantage taken of that diversion to give the food or 
medicine. 

The art of feeding does not only consist in giving 
nourishment, but in securing the child's willing co-operation 
in the process, when the good that the food is intended 
to do will be much enhanced by the will and appetite all 
acting in harmony. There is just all the difference 
between the dinner eaten by a sulky child in a bad temper, 
and that eaten with a healthy appetite in a good humour, 
and this is the reason why some babies thrive in the hands 
of one nurse, when surrounded by the same circumstances. 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 39 

they remain stationary, or make but slow progress in the 
hands of another. The secret of this, as of all other good 
work, is, that the heart is in it It has been said before, 
that the utmost cleanliness is necessary in the preparation 
of infants' food, and that dirty bottles or dirty liabits 
are frequent causes of those stomach disturbances which 
destroy so many young lives. Experience has proved 
this to be very true. In the out-patient rooms of the 
Hospital for Sick Children, very careful instructions are 
given by the staff on these details of feeding, and the 
mothers are urged to discard the bottle and tube, in 
favour of the old-fashioned shape. Where they heed 
and practice this teaching, marked improvement in the 
condition of the patient follows. 

The milk supply must be pure, and the vessels into 
which it is received must be pure and clean, chemically 
clean ; if the means of the parent allow, it is wise to have 
the milk of one cow ; but this is by no means essential, 
unless the infant is in a very delicate state. 

The food should be prepared fresh each time, even 
during the night, and none should be left in the bottle, 
only that quantity being made that is required ; the 
difficulty in the night may be met by keeping some water 
hot by the many machines that are provided for that 
purpose, when the heating of the food will take but a short 
time. 

There are some infants who inherit a consumptive 
tendency from their parents, and this shows itself in 
intestinal irritation, in aggravated cases there is consump- 
tion of the bowels, and tuberculous disease of the mesenteric 
glands. The part played by these glands in the assimila- 
tion of food is very important, they receive the chyle when 
separated from the chyme, it passes through them and is 
conveyed to the receptaculum chyli, from whence, by 
means of the thoracic duct, it is taken to the heart to be 
oxygenated and distributed all over the body. The action 
of disease on these glands is to destroy their function, and 
the circulation being deprived of nutriment the child 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



becomes wasted and emaciated. In tubercular disease of 
the intestines there is inflammation, and the abdominal 
viscera become the seat of tubercular deposit, so that 
all along the tract there is diseased action, showing 
itself by pain, diarrhcea, impaired nutrition, and often 
vomiting. 

It is easy to see that in such a condition of things it is of 
the first importance that the food given should be non- 
irritating, that it should be nourishing and not over 
stimulating, and that it should be easy of digestion. A 
very valuable article of food is raw meat, or raw meat-juice ; 
if the former, the meat should be taken from the most 
fleshy part of the joint, it should be free from sinew or fat 
and perfectly sweet. It must first be minced either by a 
knife or in a machine, then pounded and finally rubbed 
through a hair sieve, a little raw sugar may be mixed in it, 
or some confection of the Pharmacopeia ; r^ to 2 oz. is a 
sufficient quantity for a meal. Children will take it 
readily, and if it suits them they thrive upon it The 
meat-juice is extracted by soaking in water and pressure, 
either by tying the meat up in muslin and wringing the 
juice out, or by heavy weights — 2 fl. oz. to 4 oz. is the right 
quantity. The juice will agree sometimes when the meat 
cannot be digested. 

An artificial digestive is added to the milk when the 
stomach is intolerant of it, it is intended to imitate the 
action of the pancreatic secretion, and being mixed with 
the milk before the child takes it, makes it easier of 
digestion by beginning the process outside the body. 
Foods so treated are called peptonized food, and the 
agent is called pancreatine. There is no doubt that this 
is a useful adjunct in feeding delicate children ; it may be 
added to all the foods mixed with milk, according to the 
directions given on each bottle. A rough and ready way 
is to put a teaspoonful in a tumbler of milk, when the 
milk may be drunk with advantage, when before it 
disagreed. Limewater in the proportion of 4^ to \ of milk 
will aid in the digestion of the milk, when there is too 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 41 

much acidity in the stomach, by correcting the acidity by 
its alkaline action. 

Beef-tea is a very valuable form of animal food for the 
sick ; when carefully made it agrees with the stomach, and 
is both nourishing and stimulating. It is a mistake to 
give it to infants too strong, thinking by that means to 
convey more nourishment, the weakened stomach will not 
digest it, and the feeble powers being over-taxed only 
reach the limit of their endurance the sooner. In feeding 
these delicate little ones, it is of the greatest importance to 
have a just estimate of the powers of the infant stomach, 
so that the diet of an adult may not be prescribed for 
them, and then great anxiety felt when they do not take 
the quantity ordered. From 2 to 2\ pints of fluid is as 
much as a child under two years of age can eat and 
dispose of, an infant of one year will take about J a pint 
less. 

If the irritability and weakness of the stomach indicate 
that so much fluid cannot be given, then it must have the 
same nourishment in a more concentrated form, in smaller 
quantities. It is highly injurious, and is mistaken kind- 
ness on the part of either mother or nurse, to think that 
because an essence or condensed food is used that they 
will best combat the disease by giving the same bulk as a 
more diffused food ; they are just undoing the good that 
this plan of feeding aimed at accomplishing. If beef-tea 
four times as strong as ordinary is prescribed, then only 
a fourth part is wanted to represent the same amount of 
nourishment ; if condensed milk is used then it requires to 
be diluted at least ^^ or f to bring it to the standard 
of fresh milk. 

The engine will only burn up a cortain amount of fuel, 
and over and above this is waste either of power or 
material. The art of feeding a sick child is to find out 
what will agree best with it, and to give that food judiciously 
at regular intervals in regular quantities. 

The form of food next in value to milk, as containing all 
that is necessary for building up and repairing the human 



43 FOOD AND COOKERY 

frame, is an egg, the white, the albumen, is almost 
identical with the curd or nitrogenous element in the milk ; 
the terms nitrogenous and albumenoid are interchangeable ; 
the yolk represents the hydro-carbons, and the mineral 
elements — out of the egg the young chick is formed, 
so that in its small bulk is all that is wanted to build 
up the frame of the young animal. An egg is easy of 
digestion, given either raw or lightly boiled ; on egg and 
milk a delicate child may be nourished for a long time 
without the use of any other animal food, and well started 
on the road of life. 

There are a variety of forms in which milk and egg may 
be combined ; the most simple is that of custard pudding, 
either baked or boiled, which is simply the egg beaten up 
in the milk and solidified by heat. 

In all forms of cooking an egg It should be done lightly, 
for when the white becomes quite set or hardened it is 
indigestible ; a fried egg is perhaps the least wholesome 
form in which an egg can be cooked for a delicate stomach, 
and in the case of an infant would not be admissible. The 
egg beaten up thoroughly well in half-a-pint of milk is a 
wholesome, nourishing food, and is readily taken by a young 
child. 

It is sometimes necessary to give the white only, when 
the stomach is very delicate ; beaten up with two tea- 
spoonsful of brandy and four of water with a little sugar 
to taste, it is very palatable and is liked by the child. 
The yolk treated in the same way can be given when in 
certain conditions of the internal organs a large proportion 
of albumen can not be assimilated. This latter is the 
brandy mixture of the Pharmacopeia without the cinna- 
mon water, which is as a rule much disliked by patients ; 
it gives the mixture a sickly taste. 

When alcohol is indicated by the feeble condition of the 
infant, brandy is the only form in which it should be 
given ; judiciously given and by medical advice, it is a 
most valuable medicine, especially in that wasting form 
of diarrhcea that rapidly pulls an infant down. Five 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 43 

drops at a time, given in the raw meat-juice, or in the 
bottle, is a proper dose for a very young infant and will 
have an almost magical effect ; but the quantity of alcohol 
for an infant is a matter for the doctor to prescribe. Utmost 
attention must be paid to the food of an infant that is the 
subject of diarrhcea ; the acute state so quickly runs its 
course to death, or takes on a chronic form, that the first 
symptoms must be regarded and dealt with. It very often 
has its cause in some improper food or food carelessly pre- 
pared, which the bowel aims at clearing away, and if the 
effort ceases there no harm will be done, and perhaps the 
mother will be a little wiser for the lesson given. 

It is when the food is seen in the motions in an ill- 
digested form, or when the stools are very relaxed, slimy, 
and streaked with blood, that it is to be looked at as a serious 
ailment The food should be at once changed as it is doing 
no good, the form of milk altered, and the most minute 
examination made of the bottles, vessels, and all used in its 
preparation, the mode in which it is made, and the fresh- 
ness of the preparation. It is in this disease that raw meat, 
or raw meat-juice, is so valuable, the qualities of the meat 
have not been altered or lost by cooking, nor has the fibrine 
been hardened, or the albumen coagulated, it is therefore 
more readily acted upon by the gastric and pancreatic 
fluids, and sent through the intestines in a bland, non- 
irritant form. The nourishing food restores tone to the 
weakened vessels, and the morbid action is arrested. 

The same food is useful in those cases of marasmus or 
wasting caused by the mal-assim.ilation of food ; much 
patience and thought must be given to their feeding, and 
experiments tried until that form of food has been found 
which agrees with them best Peptonized milk and pep- 
tonized gruel will generally be needed, as the stomach is 
too weak to secrete sufficient gastric juice to macerate the 
milk, and the coats are incapable of the churning action 
necessary for the process of digestion. If the stomach is 
fed with food beyond its digestive powers, the evil is 
increased, and the absorbent system of vessels having 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



insufficient and inefficient material given, feed upon the 

tissues of the body, and so the infant wastes ; moreover 
the whole vital action becomes weakened and its processes 
depraved. 

In these diseases our main reliance must be on pep- 
tonized milk, or gruel, and raw meat or its juice. Eggs 
cannot be assimilated in this condition of the digestive 
organs. The food must be given frequently, every one or 
two hours, in small quantities, as the stomach can bear it ; 
if there is vomiting, then the stomach must have a rest. 

When there is chronic diarrhcea, arrowroot may be used 
with advantage to thicken the milk or the beef-tea, as it 
induces constipation of the bowels, but it will not nourish 
the child, it is only a medicine. 

When the opposite state of the bowels is the trouble, 
oatmeal may be given in the form of porridge, as it relaxes 
the bowels ; beef-tea and raw eggs have also the same 
effect in a slighter degree. It is in all cases a wiser pro- 
ceeding to endeavour to control the action of the bowels 
by the diet, than to have recourse to medicine which in the 
end weakens and impairs the natural action. 

An excellent substitute for milk is whey, which is milk 
treated with rennet, so that the curd is separated, and the 
lighter part of the milk remains. The whey should be 
given mixed with three teaspoonfuis of boiled milk and 
one of cream, the quantity of milk being gradually 
increased as the stomach can bear it. Barley-water may 
be substituted for the whey with the addition of cream. 
The curd separated from the milk is a concentrated form 
of nourishment, useful where it is necessary to " feed up " 
the patient, and where there is a difficulty in swallowing 
fluids. Brandy mixes very well with it. 

The malted foods will agree with children who are not 
able to digest and assimilate the curd of cow's milk, but 
they require the addition of cream to supply the lack of 
the fats and nitrogenous matter. 

All highly seasoned and savoury foods are out of place 
in an infant's dietary, and moat especially when the child 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 



4S 






ZM 









SI 

(A H 






8^5-5 '2 2GS»5 






1 



«) 




O u^ \0 t^ 
fO ^ CO t^ 

• • • • 



0\ 



u > fl w u 



Q.S « 



8 8 8 8 

• • • • 

\r% \rt Q O 



8 

O 



•k 

55 



.4 c3 o 

9 *>^ V 



o 






t V 



ss 



•S .^ .. a ^ fl t<» 2 

tC P - *- »3 .3 ^ 



CO 



vO 



? 



mvo 



4^ 



M 

•k 

I 



8 

M 

8 



o 

> 

c« 

CO 




VO O 






00 



V ^ H 

V C3 U 

Q.S bO 




CO 



8 & 8 3- "S- 

• _ • • • 

8 



VO 



CO CO 



::x 




VO 00 
CO NO 



o\ 



V o 

'I 

o o 



00 



§■1-8 



9 S « 

SI* 



CO u^ 



^\o o\t^ 

VO »H M M 

* • • • 



CO 



fl 6 ^ 
V c 5 









S (S.h8)^ 



V d B '^ 



•a 
5 



CO 



"8 S 



00 MvO M 
t^^ii CO OS 

• • • • 

M vo 



CO 




a 

§ 



to 
CO 

CO 



CO 






CO CO 



to 

00 




o 

c 



(A 

o 






[H. lO.] 






\i 



46 FOOD AND COOKERY 

inherits any constitutional delicacy, the food given cannot 
be too plain and wholesome, or too carefully prepared. If 
possible, the feeding of a delicate child and the preparation 
of its food should be the work of one person ; the child 
takes better when it is handled by one accustomed hand 
who has learned its peculiarities and little fads, and the 
nurse will take a pride in her nursling if she feels that she is 
trusted, and can see the results of her care in the improved 
condition of thq child. 




FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 



PART II. 
FOOD FOR INVALIDS. 



CHAPTER I. 



Invalids ! What thoughts does that word call into being 
— what pictures does the imagination at once construct ? 
The whole world seems full of invalids, beings whose life is 
a burden to them, who would give half their wealth to be 
eased of their wretchedness, who would barter their know- 
ledge or fame for the careless life of the healthy man. 

They may be met in a dreary procession across the 
continent of Europe, scattered up and down the sunny 
shores of the Mediterranean, steaming across the sea in 
pursuit of rest, camping on lovely spots to cheat their pain, 
all up and down the world among the haunts of men, life 
taking its sad tinge from their heritage of weakness. 

There are invalids who are invalids because they have 
not enough food, and there arc invalids who are such 
because they have too much food ; there are invalids who 
have made themselves such, because of improper food, and 
there are invalids who are invalids because they will not 
eat proper food. 

Food is frequently at the bottom of our ills and certainly 
of invalidism ; that much-enduring, much-abused member of 
our bodies, the stomach, is answerable for ill-temper, for dis- 
content, for fretfulness, for caprice, for ennui, and yet did we 
listen to its admonitions and heed its teachings, we should 
enjoy more peace, and find more happiness in our lives. 

The success of half the water-cures and health resorts is 
based on this fact, for they associate with their strictly medi- 



FOOD AND COOKERY 

cal treatment a strict dietetic regimen, plain, wholesome 
and temperate, on which they insist as part of their scheme, 
knowing that the over-eating of the London season must 
be combated with the under-eating of the holiday season. 
It is a very irrational mode of treatment, but it is the only 
one that will restore the balance ; far better would it be if 
the need for cure did not exist, but such self-denial is too 
much to look for in these enervating days. 

There is a certain vow taken in early infancy that 
promises temperance in all fleshly appetites ; unfortunately 
the meaning of this word has been narrowed down to an 
abstemious use of alcohol, thus ignoringits wide signification, 
which embraces all appetites and regulates the menu of 
the dinner-table as well as the cups of the inebriate. 

This is one of the best prescriptions, it can be read and 
made up by every one for themselves. 

It is quite certain that people cat too much ; not only do 
they offend in the quantity of food taken, but in the 
variety of foods partaken of, so that at last the appetite 
becomes so jaded and satiated that it has to be tickled 
with highly spiced and novel dishes. Good were it for 
those invalids if they could be first set to work to earn 
their meal, and then be set down to a plain, nourishing 
dinner ; it would taste richer to them than the most delicate 
dainties of the French chef, because served up with hunger. 

There are offenders against this canon amongst the poor 
as well as the rich, and in their measure they have as many 
ways of gratifying the appetite ; when the opportunity is 
given to them, they will indulge in most unwholesome, 
unsatisfying food, and as a rule the mode of cooking is 
anything but rational. It is above all things necessary 
that people should understand that the use of food is to 
provide force and energy for the duties of life, the gratify- 
ing of the palate being a secondary consideration, though 
with that wonderful adaptation of means to an end, our 
Creator has linked the satisfying of our appetite with the 
duty of sustaining life. 
As over-feeding is to blame for many of the miseries of 




FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 49 

invalids, so on the other hand is under-feeding. It is mar- 
vellous what a state of diseased appetite can be brought 
about by the imagination. We imagine that such and such 
an article of food disagrees with us, and the health/ 
functions of the stomach being much influenced through 
the will, the digestion becomes impaired, and to such an 
extent can this imagination be pushed that the stomach 
will at last vomit the food, and chronic vomiting will be 
induced. The sense of distaste for a meal, almost amount- 
ing to nausea — the result frequently of over-fatigue, or pro- 
longed fasting, is familiar to each one of us, and we are 
conscious of an act of will and determination in the first 
instance to force the stomach to resume its functions. 

The same sensation may come as the result of a dis- 
tasteful occupation, or some sight that has disgusted or 
unnerved us, and it frequently attends the work of hospital 
nurses, or those who tend the sick. It must be striven 
manfully against, it is really a cry from exhausted nature, 
and the cure must be the taking of natural, healthy food, 
to prevent its becoming a iixed habit. It is likewise a form 
of hysteria not uncommon in young growing girls ; it may 
spring from the foolish wish to appear interesting and 
delicate, or from the desire to check any approach to stout- 
ness ; but from whatever cause it may spring, the disease 
must be dealt with firmly and gently by the mother or 
guardian, the only way to nip the evil in the bud. In the 
same manner must a fanciful or wayward appetite be 
dealt with ; but all coercion will fail of its object unless 
seconded by the intelligent will of the invalid. 

I have seen young, growing girls treated as patients 
whose only disease was that they refused their food. The 
history received with them being, first, loss of appetite, then 
occasional vomiting, degenerating into a confirmed habit. 
It has been found that the disease could be quite conquered 
when separated from their injudicious friends, and dealt 
with kindly but firmly. Being one among a number, and 
without any prestige of illness attaching, nature soon again 
asserted her claim, and the reason for the malingering 



so 



FOOD AND COOKEl^y 



vanished away. In a lesser degree this depraved appetite 
shows itself in extreme fancifulness and daintiness, nearly 
always the outcome of affectation. To a healthy stomach all 
food comes alike, and though in all cases there are likes and 
dislikes they need not be placed in the ascendant. Even 
where there is weakness and delicacy in the digestive 
organs, much of it may be overcome by ignoring and dis- 
ciplining the organs to their duty. Like all our other 
functions, that of digestion is automatic, and to direct undue 
attention to it is at once to disturb its equilibrium. The 
stomach is a good servant but a bad master. 

The effect that the mind has upon the process of 
digestion must be familiar to all who reason on cause and 
effect. A sudden mental shock will destroy all appetite 
for food, a disagreeable duty impending, a great anxiety 
or prolonged strain, a serious mental effort will disarrange 
the functions, and though the food may be taken from a 
sense of duty, there will be no enjoyment in the act, and 
the results obtained from it will be imperfect So in like 
manner, the effect of any great mental excitement is to 
lead to a forgetfulness of the wants of the body, so that it 
may be carried past the usual time of feeding unheeded. 
The prolonged fasts of religious enthusiasts were all the 
result of such excitement 

All this goes to prove how intimate a connection exists 
between the mind and body, the latter being intended 
always as the servant to minister to the former ; but it 
exacts the guerdon of all good service, viz., consideration 
and attention. 

Invalidism, again, may follow from using injudicious 
food, and in this particular it is impossible to lay down 
any hard or fast line, — it is a true proverb, " that what is 
one man's meat is another man's poison," for what wilt 
suit one will not another, so there will always be room for 
vegetarians, and eaters of animal food, or followers of the 
Jewish rules of diet — in this matter there must be a large 
latitude for each individual ; nor should we quarrel one 
with another because we do not all eat alike. In some 



I 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. ji 

conditions of stomach and of living, a vegetable diet is 
most suitable, whilst for others the greater support 
furnished by animal food is required. 

Indigestion is undoubtedly induced and increased by 
errors in diet, which might be rectified by careful attention 
to the indications given by the stomach, only as this often 
involves denial of favourite dishes it is not insisted on 
until that which might have been transitory becomes 
confirmed, and a miserable life succeeds over-indulgence. 

Another fruitful cause of indigestion or dyspepsia is 
haste ; in these busy days time represents money, and a 
hurried meal is swallowed with a preoccupied mind, to the 
detriment of the digestive powers. The food is sent down 
into the stomach half masticated, the stomach reacted 
upon by the general flurry is disconcerted in its action, and 
the resulting effect is dyspepsia. There is a certain 
dignity about the process of feeding that resents hurry 
and disturbance — it demands a time to itself, and asks 
recognition as an important factor in the process of life. 

So far we have dealt with those mental forms of 
invalidism, or rather those which are intimately linked 
with mental habit ; but there are other forms of weakness, 
which may spring either as the result of some prolonged 
illness, or from the irksomeness and monotony of an 
invaUd's life, such as attends on the victims of some 
chronic joint affection. 

These often lack the appetite for food, because of the 
absence of the stimulus of healthy change of scene, or of 
vigorous exercise ; it is often a problem how to vary the 
diet so as to tickle the appetite. The same four walls, the 
same look out, the same unvarying routine, the day's 
monotony only broken by more or less pain, the absence 
of hope, the living for the sake of living, the feeling of 
uselessness, all these react upon and deaden the healthy 
bodily functions. Here is ample scope for thoughtful 
attention to the details of feeding. 

What a sharp contrast there is in the lot of these 
invalids ! all alike in weariness, languor and sorrow ; but 



r 



S2 FOOD AND COOKERY 

some surrounded by all that wealth can buy and ingenuity 
devise to cheat their pain, and others without one mitigating 
circumstance to soften their lot ; in the latter case learning 
the lesson of patience with but few hindrances, in the former 
clogged with many temptations, taught to be selfish, exact- 
ing, discontented, and where faith and patience triumph, 
triumphing out of many obstacles. If God made these sharp 
contrasts. He made them to give us opportunities of helping 
each other. 

This form of invalid is difficult to feed, the appetite is 
capricious and morbid, a change of food is constantly 
needed, the whims of the patient are many, and sometimes 
may not be gratified because of danger to the health. It 
may be conciliatory, but it is not wise to consult the patient ; 
in the first place, no one cares to know what they are going 
to have for dinner, it takes away from the surprise and 
anticipation ; in the second, it arouses a spirit of perversity 
in the patient, who, wearied out with the ever- recurring 
question, " what would you fancy for dinner to-day ? " will 
suggest something preposterous, and then be angry when 
refused. The course of food having been laid down by the 
medical authority, the details may be carried out by an 
intelligent nurse or attendant, who should aim at variety, 
combined with a wholesome style of cookery. All highly 
spiced and seasoned dishes should be out of the question ; 
food may be made very palatable by care in flavouring and 
attention, and much thought may be bestowed upon the 
manner of serving. It should be sent up in a .spotless 
manner, and in a small quantity, with pretty accessories, 
flowers, pretty china, etc., and when partaken of the tray be 
at once removed. 

There are few things that betray the training of the 
nurse so much as her attention to these little niceties, and 
there are few things that so conduce to the comfort of the 
patient as attention to these small details ; they are not 
unimportant, for anything that will tempt and encourage 
the appetite is worth thought. It is careless and untidy to 
leave remnants of food in a sick room, that which has been 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS, 53 

handled and looked at by the patient is not tempting, and 
moreover the atmosphere of a sick room does not make a 
good larder. Unwashed cups, glasses and plates, are an 
unseemly litter, their accumulation can be so readily kept 
under. I have seen presumedly good nurses collect around 
them such an assemblage of cups, glasses, spoons, what 
not, that at last there was no clean vessel at hand, nor 
space to put it down out of hand. These may be counted 
as little fidgets, but they are very important fidgets in 
tending the sick. 

It will be found a great help in tending an invalid to 
have a regular interval of time for the meals, and a regular 
quantity at those times — three hours is quite a sufficient 
interval for a weak stomach, and if this interval is observed 
a small quantity of food at a time can be digested. 

Regularity, order, and method are very important when 
attending upon the invalids ; this will save much friction of 
temper on both sides. 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



CHAPTER II. 

ON DISEASE IN THE DIGESTIVE AND ASSIMILATIVE 
ORGANS. 

An intelligent arrangement of diet for invalids will pre- 
suppose an outline knowledge of the morbid physiological 
changes in the functions that call for this care and man- 
agement. The process of healthy digestion has been 
briefly sketched, and a recollection of this will be of use in 
understanding wherein the disease lies. 

The most common form of disturbance is indigestion, or 
dyspepsia. This may exist in a very mild form, or be of so 
serious a nature that the life is rendered a burden ; there 
is every shade of degree between these two extremes. In 
whatever degree it exists, much attention must be given to 
the nature of the food, and to the manner of taking it 

Primarily in dyspepsia, the digestive functions are en- 
feebled in one part or other of the canal. It may be in the 
stomach, which does not secrete sufficient gastric juice 
to dissolve the nitrogenous elements of the food and con- 
vert them into peptones ; this change must take place in 
the food before it can be absorbed into the blood. The 
weakness may be in the coats, which do not carry on the 
churning action necessary for the mechanical mixing of the 
food in its every particle with the gastric juice. When the 
stomach is inflamed, its disordered mucous membrane 
secretes mucus, which acts as a ferment and favours de- 
composition in the food ; this sets free the gases of decom- 
position and causes flatulency (" the wind "), and the 
formation of lactic acid, a condition of acidity. The fault 
may be in the duodenum, the intestine below the stomach, 
the pylorus being the door of communication between the 
two. The semi-digested mass is here brought in contact 



FOJi INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 



I with the pancreatic and bih'ary juices, which act upon the 
fats and renders them fit for absorption, and the starches 
and sugars are converted into grape-sugar, in which form 
they are taken into the blood. The bile is secreted by the 
liver, and shares in the health or reverse of that organ ; it 
may be either deficient in quantity or quality; in either case 
it docs not re-act upon the contents of the intestines, by 
preparing them for assimilation. 
No straight line of dietary can be laid down for dyspeptics, 
for as the causes of indigestion are various, the foods pro- 
vided must meet those distinctions. Thus for some, animal 
food must be given in a liquid or semi-liquid form ; whilst 
others, on the contrary, are disturbed by the presence of any 
large amount of fluid in the stomach ; it seems to act as a 
solvent of the gastric juice, and impair its efficiency. It 
can be readily understood that the artificial digestion of 
food by the Liquor Pancreaticus must aid this enfeebled 
action, though an artificial combination can never equal 
the action of a living agent ; nevertheless it is a very valuable 
auxiliary in the dieting of dyspepsia. 

Fluid food is not always efficient as a stimulant to the 
secretion of the gastric juice, or to the mechanical action of 
the coats of the stomach ; in this case food in small quan- 
tities in a solid form must be used. 

Starches and fats are usually a source of discomfort, pro- 
bably because the food remains too long in the feeble 
stomach, and fat is especially irritating with commencing 
decomposition ; fatty matter of all kinds is unsuitable for 
dyspeptic invalids. 

In the Gouty subject, the diificulty has changed its place 
from the stomach to the organs of assimilation ; the 
nitrogenous matters in the food are digested, but the body 
does not burn them up in a healthy way, and dispose of the 
waste through the excretory organs. The u.sed-up and 
worn-out nitrogenous tissues, and the overplus of the 
proteids or albuminoids, go wandering about the body, 
establishing themselves where they have no business, and 
< doing harm, instead of giving up their nutriment and 



S6 FOOD AND COOKERY 

leaving when their work is done. When the nitrogenous 
matters are efficiently oxydised or burnt up, the waste is 
cast away in the form of urea through the kidneys ; but 
when this process is not satisfactory, uric acid is formed 
instead of urea. The uric acid will combine with soda and 
form urate of soda, which seems to be the chief irritating 
agent, setting up inflammation, and the other varied dis- 
orders of the gouty condition. 

This imperfect assimilation may be caused by eating too 
much (unfortunately, a common form of disease), especially 
where the habits of life are sedentary ; or by eating of too 
rich, too highly nitrogenised foods, such as animal foods ; 
by drinking the stronger forms of wines and beers, and by 
taking sugar in large quantities. In all cases, gout more 
usually attacks sedentary, self-indulgent livers^ than those 
of active habits and abstemious in their feeding. 

To make the fire burn faster and fiercer will be one self- 
evident means of correcting this gouty tendency, as 
Abernethy did, when he made his gouty patients to dance 
on hot plates ; or, as in a less determined form, may be done 
by sensible people^ — making use of their limbs instead of 
those of other animals ; but this will not suffice in all 
cases. The evil must be combated by attention to diet 
It will be necessarj' to reduce the amount of nitrogenous 
food (animal food) as far as may be consistent with the 
vital vigour, and limit the amount of sugar and of alcoholic 
drinks, as these interfere with the conversion of the proteids 
into fully oxydised urea. 

Soups, broths, beef-teas, are not a suitable form of giving 
animal food to gouty subjects ; they contain a lai^c 
quantity of waste nitrogenous matters ; but where gout is 
complicated by dyspepsia and feeble nutrition, they may be 
necessary. 

In Brighi's Disease, the organs chiefly in fault are the 
kidneys ; their work is to eliminate the waste after the 
oxydisation of the nitrogenous matter, and that caused by 
the wear and tear of the tissues, and to throw it out of the 
body. Failure in the performance of this function retains 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 57 

the poisonous matters in the body, causing uraemia and 
uremic poisoning, very frequently ending in death from slow 
poisoning. Diet in this disease consists in a very spare use 
of nitrogenous foods, only as much as is really needed, and 
a large preponderance of vegetable food. Soups, broths, 
beef-teas, are not suitable in this disease, as they do not 
contain the most nutritious form of animal food, but instead, 
a large amount of degenerate nitrogenous matter which 
turns into very poisonous materials, and the body with 
inefficient kidneys has much difficulty in discharging these 
matters from it. 

Diabetes is a disease in the assimilative process. It may 
be that the liver is chiefly in fault ; but in whatever organ 
the principal mischief lies, the result is a perverted action, 
so that the carbonaceous elements, and in some degree the 
albuminous elements also, instead of being converted into 
glycogetiy a carbonaceous material properly prepared for use 
in the body, appear in the form oi glucose, or grape-sugar, a 
form not adapted for the purpose, and which the body 
cannot make use of On the kidneys is thrown the task of 
eliminating this sugar, which is found in the urine as 
diabetic sugar. The disease is attended with a morbid 
excess in the amount of urine, and very frequently with 
most painful thirst Sugar is necessary in the laboratory 
of the body. It stands among the group of heat-producing 
elements ; and in the healthy subject it is so entirely 
absorbed into the blood and tissues, that it cannot be traced 
in- the urine ; in diabetes, on the contrary, sugar is found in 
large quantities. 

The object aimed at in the dietary is to exclude sugar 
and starch, the latter being converted into sugar during the 
progress of digestion, and especially into • glucose, the 
objectionable form of sugar above mentioned. This strikes 
out farinaceous foods, especially wheaten bread, and all 
forms of grains, sweetened beers and spirits, and any 
cookery in which sugar is used. Fresh vegetables, ex- 
cepting potatoes, are admissible ; fresh fruit, without sugar ; 
animal foods and butter. Milk must be taken sparingly ; 



FOOD AND COOKERY 

cream is permissible ; tea, coffee, and cocoa, with cream and 
without sugar. The only substitute for bread or biscuits, is 
that made with gluten, which is the dough with the 
starch washed out, and bran bread. The diet is apt to 
become monotonous, particularly when the patient is 
young, and much of the success in perseverance will 
depend upon the cook and her skill in making variety. A 
free use of water is indicated, and may be indulged in 
with benefit; it supplies material to meet the drain of 
fluids that is going on, and, being the universal solvent, it 
materially aids in the process of assimilation. 

Scurvy is a disease cau.sed by imperfect nutrition, 
affecting the quality of the blood and the blood-vessels. 
The former becomes poor, watery, and deficient in vitalising 
power : the latter are weakened in their structure, the coats 
become feeble, the contents will ooze out, and as their 
contractile power fails, the circulation is languid and 
intermittent ; the gums are spongy, the muscles soft, and 
there is extreme debility. The cause of this disorder is the 
absence of the organic salts from the diet. These salts 
are essential elements in the economy of life, and they are 
found largely in fresh vegetables and their equivalent must 
exist in milk. It is known that the deprivation of fresh 
vegetables, milk and fresh animal food— such as used to 
occur on a long sea-voyage, or in the case of prisoners 
and the very poor — gives rise to the scorbutic state, and 
that the disease may be combated by giving these articles 
freely, with milk and fresh animal food. 

The development of scurvy is favoured by the use of 
salted meats, even though fresh vegetables form part of the 
diet, so that the change from salt meat to fresh, with little 
farinaceous' food and abundance of fresh vegetables, will 
generaily bring about a better state of things. In all cases 
it is necessary to take some form of vegetable acid, that of 
the lemon or lime being the most efficacious. The dis- 
covery of this latter specific, and the use of preserved and 
tinned meats and milk, has almost banished scurvy from 
the navy. 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 



fDiet has much to do with skin-diseases. A fish diet, 
especially that of shell-fish, may cause urticaria or nettle- 
rash ; tomatoes produce itching and an erythematous erup- 
tion ; eggs are poison to some. Ecsema may be much 
modified by an attention to the articles of food eaten, 
especially when it is the outcome of a gouty tendency. The 
leprosy of the present day may be favoured by a diet of fish, 
if not absolutely dependent on it. There is a skin-disease 
that occurs in Italy, called Italian leprosy, which is due to 
eating maize (Indian corn) when affected with a certain 
fungoid growth. In all these cases the cure lies in change 
of diet. 
We are frail mortals at the best of times ; but especially 
when the indulgence of the appetite is in question. The 
little boy at the school feast, who said that he might per-, 
haps be able to eat more if he stood up, has his brothers 
and sisters of larger growth in every rank of society. No 
doubt that little man regretted the cake and jam that he 
had gorged, when the next morning found him with a head- 
ache and sickness, and all the other aches that come with 
repletion. He would long for the vigour and elasticity that 
usually came with his healthy meals ; and let us hope that 
the remembrance of the day after the feast brought with it 
abstinence on the next occasion. 

The Christian's vow of temperance, to " renounce the 
sinful lusts of the flesh," should be the safeguard against 
over-indulgence in the pleasures of the table, and, like all 
those good old precepts, will be found conducive to a long 
and happy life. There are few sights more pitiable than to 
see an old man or woman, victims of the diseases that spring 
from gluttony, tottering towards the end of life, with their 
hearts still set upon the indulgence of the palate ; but with 
taste and smell almost gone, and nothing lefl to take the 
place of former joys. 

The men who have left the deepest mark on their time, 
and who have done the best work, have always been 
abstemious, using food just for its right purpose, to keep 
the engine going. 



1 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



CHAPTER III. 

FOOD SOR INVALIDS. 

It is one of the provisions of Nature, that man should be 
obliged to seek the materials to maintain his being from 
the various compound substances around him. Though 
certain elements arc required for his life, such as nitrogen 
hydrogen, carbon, &c., still he cannot make use of these in 
their elementary form ; they must be introduced into his 
body in combination with the natural substances in which 
they are found— in other words, he cannot supply himself 
with the nitrogen or hydrogen that are around him in large 
quantities in the air, but he must receive them in some 
organic compound. 

In the laboratory of his body, man arranges these 
elements in quite a different form ; in some cases making 
entirely new combinations, such as fat out of sugar, and 
they pass through an infinity of changes whilst adapting 
themselves to his needs. They are all derived from the 
vegetable world, though in some cases they come to him 
secondarily, after having been incorporated into the body 
of another living animal. It is quite possible, and it has 
frequently been done, to resolve food into its primary 
elements, and then to put them in different bottles ; but it 
is quite certain that if a man were fed on the contents of 
these bottles he would die ; they lack that mysterious 
principle, life, which God only can give, and which unfortu- 
nately man can take in a moment, but can never restore. 

The great divisions of food are into organic and 
inorganic substances, the latter being made up only of 
water and various saline principles. The organic must be 
divided into the nitrogenous and non- nitrogenous com- 
pounds, the non -nitrogenous into hydro-carbons (fats) and 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 6i 

carbo-hydrates (starches and sugars). The purpose of the 
former is to give the material out of which to build up and 
repair the body ; the purpose of the latter, to serve as a 
source of heat, sometimes called the " calorifacients," or 
heat-makers ; these latter also assist in the process of 
nutrition, but in a secondary way. 

The only food that contains in itself all these compounds 
is milk ; it is the type food, and is presented to man in a 
form at once ready for use. Next in importance are the 
various forms of animal food, and these will be nutritious 
according to the amount of albumen, fibrine, and caseine 
which they contain. Albumen is the white of an egg ; it is 
a nitrogenous substance, and is found alike in the animal 
and vegetable world. In its common form it is a transparent, 
glairy fluid, tenacious in texture ; it coagulates with heat, and 
is decomposed and neutralised by the action of alcohol. 

Fibrine is the chief part of flesh, and is even more 
abundant in the vegetable than in the animal kingdom. 
It is found in the fibre of muscle, and exists in the 
blood ; if the blood is stirred when fresh, with a stick, 
the fibrine will be found clinging to it like hairs. 

Caseine is the curd of milk, and forms the basis of cheese ; 
it may be found in the seeds of certain vegetables, such as 
peas, beans, lentils, all that are called leguminous. 

Fish has its place among the animal foods, and, when 
considered as part of the diet of invalids, it occupies an 
important place. It is rich in nitrogenous matter, and 
those fish that have too much fat can be avoided, without 
limiting the choice too much. As a rule, white fish is more 
digestible than red fish ; and of all fish the whiting may 
be regarded as the most delicate, tender, and easy of 
digestion. 

After animal food, we have Vegetable food, of which 
there is almost infinite variety ; but we must place the 
Cereals in the first place. These contain all the essential 
alimentary compounds ; and first on the list stands wheat 
It is the most important, because it is made into bread, and 
a variety of useful compounds besides. All cereals have a 

[H. ID.] E 



62 FOOD AND COOKERY 

large proportion of starch, a substance which some stomachs 
find a difficulty in disposing of, and the presence of this 
starch in such a large proportion makes them less nutritious 
as a food than animal food. The want is supplied by the 
combination of milk. Baked flour and biscuit flour are 
both more digestible than uncooked flour ; the heat breaks 
up the starch granules, and thus prepares them for the 
action of the digestive juices. 

The finest wheat-flour is not so nutritious as the darker 
kinds, for the process of bolting removes some of the outer 
husk that contains the fibrine and phosphates ; for this 
reason true brown-bread and wholemeal -bread are more 
nourishing than white bread. If our working population 
could be brought to see this, and would discard the white 
bread from their table, they would find the advantage in 
greater economy and in a healthier form of food. 

Macaroni is an important preparation of wheat; it is made 
from the finest wheat, and has all the nutritive properties 
of wheat in a form easy of digestion. It is made from the 
Italian wheat, which is rich in gluten, and is a highly prized 
article of food in that country. In preparation it requires 
to be thoroughly softened in milk or gravy, as it is hard and 
close in texture. 

Next to wheat stands oats; it contains less starch and 
more fat than wheat ; it is deficient in gluten, and therefore 
cannot be made into bread ; it is generally eaten as oat-cake 
or porridge. It is the staple food of Scotland and Northern 
countries ; and if its nutritive value is to be gauged by the 
physique of the race fed upon it, it stands second to none 
in importance. 

Rice is a valuable article of food in its right place ; 
having a very large percentage of starch, it is insufficient 
alone to serve as nutriment ; but associated with animal 
food, generally milk, it is of great use. The starch granule is 
easy of digestion, hence it agrees with some disordered 
states of the alimentary canal. " In diarrhtea and dysentery 
it agrees better than any other kind of solid food." (Pavy.) 
It is poor in nitrogen and fat. 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 



(The next class of vegetables are the Leguminous Seeds. 
TTie principal of them are beans, peas, and lentils. They are 
richer in nitrogenous matter than cereals, have less starch 
and are all deficient in fats ; therefore it might be thought 
they would prove a more nutritious article of food than the 
grains ; but experience has not proved this. They are not 
easy of digestion, and require some fatty or oily substance 
to combine with ; still, as an article of food, they require 
more attention, and are very economical. 
Chief among the edible roots is the potato, an almost 
universal vegetable ; it contains a large amount of starch, 
and a small proportion of nitrogenous matter. As a food 
by itself, it is not sufficiently nutritious ; but it is a whole- 
some and valuable addition to the diet of a healthy person, 
and is a necessity where there is a scorbutic tendency. 
The weak and dyspeptic stomach finds it objectionable, 
because of the large quantity of starch in it. 

The green vegetables of the cabbage tribe arc rich in 
nitrogenous matter ; but they, contain a large percentage of 
water ; they also contain sulphur and ammonia, which is the 
cause of the disagreeable smell when cooking. They are a 
necessity in the treatment of scrofula, scurvy, and most of the 
eruptive skin -diseases. They are an article of food of much 
value from a medicinal point of view, and are not sufficiently 
prized by the poor. 

The large variety of other vegetables will hardly claim a 
place as necessities of diet ; but as welcome additions, 
giving variations, or for flavouring, they are useful and 
palatable. A diet in which there is a generous supply of 
vegetables is a healthy one. 

Another of the useful products of the vegetable kingdom 
is fruit. In these, generally speaking, there is but little 
nutrition ; but they are a very pleasant refreshing food, and 
contain many salts useful in the animal economy. A daily 
use of fruit, especially with the first meal, will often ad- 
minister that amount of correction in the excretory 
functions, without the need of further medicine. Fresh 
fruit should always form a part of the diet of infants and 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



invalids. As a nation, we neglect this valuable article of 
diet ; it might with advantage be put upon the table at 
every meal. 

The Grape has a value of its own ; it is not only a refreshing 
pleasant food, but it is also nutritious, from the quantity of 
grape-sugar which it contains ; and is a medicine, because 
of the bitartrate of potass, tartrate of lime and malic acid 
in it. The " Grape cure " and the " Raisin cure " have 
attracted a great deal of attention ; the grape or raisin is 
the chief factor in the treatment, combined with an exquisite 
climate and an open-air life. The Raisin is the grape 
dried, and in this form it is an important article in domestic 
consumption. It is highly nutritious and very palatable. 
The small dried grapes of Corinth, popularly known as 
" currants," are used in cookery, but they arc not suitable as 
food for children or invalids ; they are highly indigestible, 
generally pass down the tract unaltered, and therefore 
cause irritation. 

The Juice of the grape comes to us as wine, that " which 
maketh glad the heart of man," and may be taken for the 
"stomach's sake." How far alcohol may form a part of 
our diet, or be used in the treatment of disease, it is not 
within the province of these pages to declare, as it cannot 
be classed among the nutritious foods ; its office is to stimu- 
late, "to make glad the heart of men," and, like all useful 
servants and bad masters, it should be used with tempe- 
rance and moderation. On this point let every man form 
his own judgment and rule of action, and allow others to 
differ from him without being placed outside of the pale of 
of salvation. Certainly in past days, our forefathers were 
too lavish in the use of alcohol ; and there are some now 
who must curse the first time it passed their lips ; but this 
is the abuse of one of God's good gifts to man. 

There are still the farinaceous foods to be considered, 
such as sago, tapioca, arrowroot, &c. These foods contain 
a very large proportion of starch, and therefore require the 
use of some animal substance to give them the nitrogen 
they lack. They are generally mixed with milk, in the form 



FOR INFANTS AND INVAUDS. 65 

of puddings, or are used in soups, With milk they make a 
non-irritant, nutritious food for an invalid or for children. 
Taken alone, they are quite insufficient to support life. 
Sugar is a substance found largely in the vegetable world, 
and not so profusely in the animal. Its place is among the 
carbo-hydrates ; it is extracted and stored up in the human 
frame to be converted into force as needed. It is readily 
digested, being very soluble ; but in some conditions of the 
stomach it gives rise to acid fermentation. It is a necessity 
to young children, whose instinct teaches them to like 
it. Like all other good things, it must be taken with 
moderation. 

All food includes in its category drinks, or beverages ; and 
in many cases the action of the food is assisted by the 
mixture of some solvent Some conditions of the stomach 
require the partaking of the solvent first, though this is an 
abnormal way of eating. 

The universal solvent is water, which is found in large 
proportion in all solid food, and besides, is everywhere 
around. A pure copious supply of water is what every one 
ought to have as their birthright ; but man has done his 
best to foul and curtail it. It constitutes the basis of all 
our drinks, and it is essential that it should be pure and be 
kept free from all contamination. It will absorb the 
noxious vapours in the atmosphere, and the decomposing 
substances in the earth ; therefore, if stored for daily use, it 
should be in a covered non-porous cistern ; or, if drawn from 
a well, the well should be deep and far removed from any 
source of contamination, such as drains, cesspools, or cattle- 
yards. It may be rendered chemically pure, by filtering 
through charcoal, boiling, or distilling. 

The sourccof the water-supply is the rain, and rain-water, 
when obtained in the country, is absolutely pure. It is taste- 
less, from the absence of the salts of the earth, and is non- 
gaseous. Spring-water, which is rain-water returned through 
the earth, is the source of our drinking-supply, and its 
refreshing taste and sparkling look is obtained from the 
salts and gases with which it is charged. 



I 66 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



Water, pure and simple, is a useful adjunct to the diet of 
invalids ; and there are few illnesses in which, so long a 
absolutely pure, it may not be given with safety and benefit. 
It is an irrational practice to deny it to the sick ; in illnesses 
in which there is fever, or those attended with profuse dis- 
charges, it is a necessity, as it supplies the fluid that is 
rapidly being dried up, or drained away from the body. A 
glass of pure water on rising in the morning, before food, is 
an effective aperient Children as a rule take more water 
than adults. 

Water in the form of ice is constantly used in the sick- 
room. It is palatable and refreshing, and is taken to check 
hsemorrhages ; in fevers, diphtheria, and other throat-affec- 
tions, it is decidedly useful as a local application and as a 
solvent 

Tea, coffee, and cocoa are the beverages most in use in the 
present day. Though different products, they are very 
similar in principle. Theine and caffeine are considered by 
chemists as almost identical ; theobromine, the principle of 
cocoa, is the analogue of theine. Of these three drinks 
cocoa is the most nourishing, containing more fat and more 
gluten ; it is more digestible, and has a less direct action on 
the nervous system. Tea and coffee both stimulate and 
revive the brain ; they are almost a necessity in this bustling 
anxious life. Tea has the effect of restoring and refreshing 
the vital powers ; coffee, of sustaining and exciting them ; tea 
is more the beverage of the poor, coffee of the rich. Tea 
agrees better with a weak stomach than coffee, which is too 
rich and exciting, and tea will almost take the place of food 
and drink with the over-wrought and destitute ; if the poor 
woman can only get her cup of tea she will be satisfied. 
Cocoa made with milk is an admirable breakfast drink ; 
the best form for use is the nib crushed. This is the purest 
form of cocoa, being free from the foreign starchy matters 
with which it is often mixed. 

In the form of clwcolate, cocoa becomes a highly nutritious 
food, and is valuable for sustaining strength in the absence 
of other food, therefore it is useful on a long journey 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 67 

Chocolate is the best form of cocoa prepared with 



f 

^H sugar. 

^^H Beer, in all its varieties is 

I 
I 



infusion of malt and hops; it 
is a fermented liquor, the amount of alcoho! being variable. 
It is a refreshing, exhilirating, nutritive drink, and in 
excess is an intoxicant. As a tonic, and as an aid to 
digestion, it is of value, especially the pale, bitter beers. The 
stouts are heavier, and, if taken in excess, induce a ple- 
thoric habit of body, accumulating imperfectly oxydised 
matter, uric acid, &c., leading to gouty complications. Beer 

all cases must be taken in moderation ; but there are 
some dyspeptics and those of a gouty tendency who cannot 
assimilate beer. Beer is especially the drink of the 
working classes. 

In dealing with the food of invalids we must glance at 
the artificial compounds and scientific combinations which 
are prepared with the view either of aiding digestion, and of 
partially digesting the food before being eaten. 

The principal of these are the preparations from meat, — 
the teas, broths, essences, extracts and jellies, malted foods 
and peptonised foods. 

The meat-preparations are prepared from fresh meat ; are 
either well or badly made, according to the skill of the 
cook, and are within the compass of most people to get. 
The extracts and essences are also prepared by dealers, are 
hermetically sealed in tins, and may be either nourishing 
or delusive, according to the honesty of the maker. It is 
not difficult with some bones and cartilage, a little meat, and 
some colouring matter, to make a composition that will 
look very nutritious, as there is a popular idea that a stiff 
jelly is the sign of goodness. This is a delusion ; some meat, 
rich and nutritious, will not set, as it is deficient in gelati- 
nous matter, and this especially so when the meat is taken 
from the thick end of the leg; whilst other meat, if near the 
thin end, will set readily. 

The aim or object of these meat-preparations is to 
convey the nutrition of animal food in form easy for 
digestion. This is done by extracting the virtue of the meat 



FOOD AND COOKERY 

by heat, either with or without the agency of water. The 
great mistake usually made in the ordinary style of cook- 
ing is that the process is too quick and violent. A cook is 
satisfied if she hears a great bubbling going on that she is 
making excellent beef-tea, whereas she is really spoiling it 
and wasting the material. Fast boiling hardens the 
albumen and precipitates it to the bottom, and it also 
hardens the fibre of the meat, so that it does not part with 
its juices into the water. If there is time, the meat should 
be first soaked for an hour, and then be put in a jar 
surrounded with hot water, and boiled very slowly, just 
simmering, for at least two hours. The meat must be 
infused, so as to extract all goodness possible. Beef-tea is 
always improved by adding some good stock; it should 
not be strained, as the sediment contains much nutrition, 
Beef-tea is more stimulating than nourishing ; and if relied on 
as the only article of diet, would land the patient in starva- 
tion ; it is known to contain only 2 per cent, of solid material. 
Next on the list stands the brotits. These are the result 
of meat boiled in water, the meat being either strained off, 
or served in it. They are flavoured with vegetables or not, 
according as advised. The goodness of the meat is 
extracted by slow boiling, and if the meat is left in it, the 
substance is tender and lighter of digestion. Soups are the 
same as broth, with the addition of good bone stock, and 
the flavouring of vegetables. The various materials are 
strained away, and the liquid remains, combining the taste 
of the ingredients in judicious proportion. These latter 
are not so nourishing as beef-tea, and require a stronger 
stomach for their digestion ; but they are a valuable article 
of food, and deserve much more attention from the working 
classes than they get 

The essences of meat, as their name betokens, are made 
with less water and more time. The object aimed at is to 
extract all the properties of the meat by the prolonged 
action of heat in a closed vessel, and if satisfactorily done, 
the residue should consist only of the fibre and insoluble 
part of the meat. 



r 
I 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 69 

The extracts of meat are deficient in albumen, gelatine 
and fat ; in fact they can hardly be called food at a!l. 
They are of a highly stimulating nature, and are a good 

addition to ordinary beef-tea or soup. 

Raw-meat juice is, as its name implies, juice of the meat 
extracted without the aid of heat This is done by 
macerating the meat in a suitable quantity of cold water, 
and then finishing the process by pressure. The addition 
of a little muriatic acid brings out the juice quicker. 

Beef is the juiciest of meat ; next to it is mutton ; veal 
and chicken have but little juice. 

Malted Foods are farinaceous foods, either malted as 
part of their preparation, mixed with malt-meal, or eaten 
with malt extract or maltine. Malting is the term applied 
to the action of damp and heat upon grain, causing it first 
to germinate, and then stopping the germination at a 
certain point by the heat of a boiler. The result of this 
process develops a peculiar active nitrogenous principle 
called diastase, which has the power of converting starch 
into dextrine and sugar. Barley is the grain which is 
converted into true malt, hence the malt meal ; and foods 
are called malted when they arc mixed with this meal, 
or when the malt extract is eaten with them, or before 
them. 

They are very useful foods for all delicate subjects, as 
the starch in the grain is changed into dextrine and sugar, a 
substance that is much easier of digestion than in the form 
of starch ; they are also palatable, and taken by young 
children with relish. 

Dr. Fothcrgill says : " In order to secure all the advan- 
tages which can possibly be derived from malt extracts, it 
is necessary to follow Nature's processes, not to traverse 
them. Consequently, malt extract should be taken either 
with farinaceous food, or immediately after such food. 
For the first it is admirably adapted , by its properties 
being sweet and toothsome, so that it can be added to 
farinaceous messes, with or without milk, previous to their 
being eaten. One caution is, however, necessary, and that 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



^^H is, that it should not be added until the mess has so far 
^^^1 cooled that it can be sipped. Diastase is killed by a 
^^^1 temperature above \i,'j° Fahrenheit, and this is the highest 
^^^1 temperature at which anything can be sipped. It may 
^^^B either be mixed throughout the food, and be eaten with it, 
^^^ as the case may be, or it may be taken immediately after 
the food, so as to operate before the stomach becomes too 

I highly acid. 

^^H " Beyond such use as an artificial digester of farina or 

^^H starch, malt extracts have a lesser utility. They contain 

^^H the phosphates of the grain and a certain portion of the 

^^H starch converted into sugar or dextrine, consequently they 

^^H are highly nutritive. They can thus be advantageously 

^^H added to milk, either for infants or invalids." 
^^H Malt foods alone are insufficient for nutrition from the 

^^H deficiency in fat and nitrogenous matter, and partly from 

^^H lack of anima! element — this deficiency may be supplied 

^^H by the addition of cream or new milk. 
^^H It is of importance that these foods should be estimated 

^^H at their just value, that more may not be expected of them 

^^H than they are able to do. In their proper place, they are 

^^^ valuable additions to the invalid's dietary ; but if put 

^^H forward as summing up in themselves everything necessary 

^^H for nutrition, it is giving them a character which they 

^^H cannot sustain. 

^^^1 Peptonized Foods are foods artificially digested by the 

^^H aid of the animal digestive fiuids, so that they should enter 

^^H the stomach partially digested. Strictly speaking, pep- 

^^H tonized foods were those foods in which the nitrogenous 

^^H elements were converted into peptones by the action of 

^^H pepsine, i.e., gastric juice, and they were distinct from 

^^H pancrcatized foods wherein the fats were changed into 

^^H emulsion by the action of the pancreatic juice. 
^^H Recent researches have discovered that pancreatic juice 

^^H will act upon the nitrogenous elements as well as the fats 

^^H and starches, so that foods treated with the Liquor Pan- 

^^H creaticus arc peptonized and pancrcatized, therefore the 

^^H term '■peptonized" covers the whole ground. 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 71 

It is certain that in the case of a weak digestion, or of a 
stomach weakened by an acute illness or fever, the action is 
facilitated by a previous digestion — that which it was unable 
to do for itself, is done before the food enters the stomach. 

The digestive action is increased by the action of heat, 
and for this reason it is that a definite temperature is 
insisted on in mixing the pancreatine with the food. 
Added to the milk with out preparation it is found to aid in 
the digestion of the milk, probably by passing the milk 
into the stomach already supplied with its digestive. This 
is a great addition to the means at our disposal for nourish- 
ing a delicate frame. 

In planning the menu of an invalid the great object to be 
aimed at is variety, that is half the battle, — on what plea 
mutton is served up in the wards of workhouses and 
infirmaries, and in some hospitals on 365 days in the year 
passes comprehension, the patients, especially those with 
prolonged illness, must eventually turn from it with 
loathing. It has the character of being more digestible 
than beef and of containing more nutrition ; but if it is 
refused by the patients, or eaten without an appetite, it 
had better be still running about as a sheep. 

It is a good road to success to send up always a surprise 
dinner, some little delicacy that the patient is known to 
fancy, or even so ordinary a dish as a chop if carefully 
cooked and daintily served wili tempt the appetite — to 
worry the invalid somewhere about nine or ten in the 
morning for the orders for the day is a great mistake, a 
great deal of contrariness will be called into action and the 
relish for the food lost If an invalid has any particular 
likes and dislikes they will certainly volunteer them, for 
as a rule they think too much about their food. 

Another mistake in dieting an invalid is the endeavour 
to tempt the appetite by some savoury but unwholesome 
dish ; as a rule highly-spiced and seasoned dishes are quite 
out of place ; the seasoning should be simple though tasty, 
and the food suitable for its work. Sausages, saveloys, 
and such like compounds of meat, are not food in the right 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



sense of the word, and take the place of more nourishing 
materials. Potted meats, if they are carefully done, are 
quite admissible, and are a toothsome relish. There is 
scope for much ingenuity in the dietary of the invalid, and 
all such efforts are highly prized by those who have to 
drag on a weary and monotonous existence. 

The subject of food in acute illness has purposely been 
omitted, for it is beyond the province of this Handbook to 
enter the physician's territory ; but it may be laid down 
as a safe rule, that fluid food must be given in all fevers 
and in illnesses that set in with severity — it can never be 
amiss to give milk freely, until the patient is dieted, beef- 
tea, or light soup if there seems much exhaustion — all 
solids, tea, coffee and cocoa must be out of the question 
until the diagnosis is made. When the doctor takes 
charge of the case, he will lay down the rules for feeding, 
and it is needless to say that they must be strictly 
obeyed. 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 73 



CHAPTER IV. 

COOKERY FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 

In the preparation of the food there is so much that is of 
general application that the two branches of the subject 
can best be dealt with in one chapter. In both is the 
same intelligence required, for both the same exactitude 
and attention to detail, for both the same scrupulous 
cleanliness and nicety. It is difficult in hospitals to have 
these points attended to, the materials are dealt with in 
bulk, the cook does not follow her cooking to its destina- 
tion, and moreover there is much to be done and few to do 
it, so that when any marked attention is required, or 
alteration suggested in the usual mode of preparing a dish, 
the kitchen authorities are apt to resent the intermeddling. 
Whatever cooks may be in the political life, in their 
kitchens they are always eminently conservative. The 
qualifications for a good cook are, scrupulous cleanli- 
ness, exactitude, quickness of perception, an elementary 
knowledge of the substance which "she handles, an 
inventive taste for her work, so that she may not just 
follow on a beaten track, but that the rather she may 
think out for herself how best to reach the end in view, 
quickness and promptitude with decision in her work. 

The object of all cooking is to render food palatable by 
improving its taste and appearance, to make it digestible 
by commencing the process of disintegration by the 
agency of heat, to develop its nutrient qualities either by 
combination, or by placing its parts in new relations. The 
aim of cooking should be to retain as much as possible of 
the juices in the meat, at the same time that the meat is 
" well-done," not on the one hand done to rags and hard, 
or on the other half raw and unappetising. . The mode 



74 FOOD AND COOKERY 

adopted should seek this end by the intelligent application 
of means to an end. For instance, old and tough meat 
will be rendered tender by stewing, when boiling or 
roasting would harden ; boiling will develope and conserve 
the nutrition of chops and small parts of meat, whilst 
roasting or frying would shrivel them up, and so on. 

Cooking must not be hurried ; its arrangements have to 
be well thought over, and its various processes conducted 
with deliberation ; a cook who is always behindhand will 
never be efficient. 

The processes of cooking are' roasting, baking, boiling, 
stewing, broiling, frying ; of these roasting is the most 
appetising, boiling the more economical — in both cases, 
the meat must be first subjected to great heat for five 
or six minutes, so that the albumen on the surface may 
be hardened, which prevents the escape of the Juices 
inside, the heat must then be lowered, and kept at slow, 
so that the interior may be subjected to its influences 
and the meat all rendered tender ; if this process is con- 
tinued too long the flesh becomes hardened and indi- 
gestible. The usual time required is fifteen minutes to a 
pound of meat. It is a mistake to put a fork in to test 
the tenderness of the meat, this makes holes, through which 
the juices escape. The meat cooked for invalids must be 
rendered quite tender, or it is unfit to be eaten, and its 
nourishment must be conserved as much as possible. If a 
slice of meat is the food, it should be taken from the 
middle of the joint and have plenty of gravy. 

Stewing is an economical, appetising, mode of dressing 
meat ; it must be done slowly in a closed vessel, so that all 
the aroma and juices, &c., may be saved. If vegetables are 
included they make a savoury nourishing dish. The 
vegetables must be boiled separately, as they require 
boiling, whilst the meat must be kept from boiling. 

Broiling is a quick and ready mode of cooking thick 
fleshy parts of meat ; if done over a quick clear fire, the 
albumen is hardened on the surface, retaining the juices, 
and the result is an appetising nourishing meal. The meat 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 



fmust be turned frequently, not with a fork, 3J\d \\. shouSd 
not be sprinkled with salt until taken from the fire. 
Frying is a much more delicate, risky operation ; if done 
with over-heated fat and an insufficient quantity, the 
fibrine becomes hardened and tough — it requires enough 
melted fat to cover the meat, when it may be fried without 
being hardened. The meat is never so nourishing as that 
boiled. 
The flesh of young animals is not so nourishing as that 
of maturer age, mutton is more digestible than any other 
meat, but beef contains more nutriment — veal, lamb and 
pork ought not to form part of an invalid's, or young 
child's food. The flesh of poultry is light and digestible, 
but it does not contain the same amount of nutriment as 
beef or mutton, but it is good food to start with when the 
stomach ha.s been weakened by acute illness and therefore 
is not strong enough to digest richer food. The flesh of 
game is richer, more savoury, and has less fat than that of 
poultry, it is as a rule a welcome variety in the diet of an 
invalid. The hare is very savoury and though not the 
most digestible it can be eaten with advantage : as a soup 
it is palatable and nourishing. Salted meat is not so 
nourishing as fresh meat, the process of salting has 
extracted .some of the albumen, and the flesh is harder, 
this makes it unfit for children and invalids. There is an 
exception to this rule in bacon and ham, which are ren- 
dered more wholesome by the process of curing — the fat 
is easy of digestion and the flesh is nourishing and 
digestible — the rich unwholesome qualities of the pork 
have been improved by the process of curing. 

The fluid preparations of meat require care and exactitude 
in their preparation ; where possible they should be made 
over-night, when the fat has time to cool and can be taken 
off. If the fluid is wanted at once, the fat may be " blotted" 
off by a piece of kitchen paper. A greasy beef-tea or broth 
will set a patient against the food, and is certainly a sign of 
careless cooking. 
-In preparing pounded meats, care must be taken to have 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



the whole reduced to a fine mass, so that it can be passed 
through a sieve ; the object of pounding is to break down 
the fibrine, thus passing it into the stomach more ready for 
digestion, also to take the place of mastication where the 
teeth are deficient. 

Raw meat pounded should be quite free from fat, sinew, 
or gristle, and if properly done it is like a pulp. It may be 
eaten with milk or beef-tea, or sweetened with either white 
sugar or confection. 

Fish has at all times been looked upon, and with reason, 
as a good form of aliment for the sick and for children, 
though the kind of fish selected and the mode of cooking 
must have careful thought An exclusive fish diet is not 
to be recommended ; it is not sufficient, and may induce an 
eruption of the skin. Among fish, the red and white fish 
is the most suitable as an article of food ; it should be well- 
cooked and made tasty. Boiling is the most wholesome 
mode of cooking but it is the least palatable ; if frying be 
resorted to, it is better to use oil than fat or butter ; fish so 
treated is highly nutritious and very appetising. A good 
cook should have no difficulty in dressing various dishes of 
fish so as to combine variety with digestibility, and any- 
thing is better than the monotony of fried fish, boiled fish, 
— boiled fish, fried fish. Among the white fish, the cod is 
not suitable for a weak digestion, as it is hard and dense, 
if preferred it should be cut in small pieces and dressed as 
steaks, being made quite tender. The salmon, at the head 
of the edible fish tribe, may be eaten if cooked thoroughly. 

All shell-fish must be put upon one side except oysters, 
these, when eaten raw, are nutritious and easy of digestion, 
it is well to take away the hard muscle at the conjunction 
of the shells. Oysters when cooked are not digestible. 
Great cleanliness is necessary in the preparation of food ; 
meat when received from the butcher's should be washed, 
but not by the violent action as that carries away the 
juices — it must have contracted some foulness from the, 
shop or from the various ■ means of transit, besides, it clears 
away the remaining particles of blood. Fish likewise 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. n 

should be thoroughly examined and washed — a cook 
cannot be too fidgetty in these particulars. 

All articles that are destined for consumption by 
either infants or invalids should be quite fresh — a healthy 
stomach may not suffer from eating tainted or sour food, 
but it may be most pernicious to the delicate. Great care 
must be taken in the storage and use of milk, the fluid 
readily decomposes, and any vessel not scrupulously clean, 
or any mixture of sour particles with sweet, will start the 
degenerative changes and spoil the whole quantity. The 
vessels must be scalded over night and kept in a covered 
place for use. 

In using the milk for infant's food the food should be 
made fresh each time, and always in a clean vessel ; it is a 
mistake to stand " baby's saucepans " on the hob to keep it 
warm between times, as the remnants left in it will certainly 
begin to decompose. This rule should be attended to 
through the night, though it may be irksome to get up in a 
cold night to make the baby's food — however, it is quite 
possible to keep a vessel with water hot all night which will 
much facilitate the process. The temperature of the food 
should be about that of the mother's milk, viz., about 95° to 
98°, certainly no cooler. Attention to these details will be 
rewarded by the good health and content of the nursling — 
a nurse who rears a babe successfully by hand and starts it 
well on its career may well be proud of her work. All 
food prepared for the nursery should be thoroughly well 
cooked, and yet not over-done, as the substances become 
hardened by over-cooking. The farinaceous preparations 
should be mixed free from lumps, for lumps do not become 
heated equally and so are a source of irritation in the 
stomach; when eggs are used it is better to make the 
mixture an hour or more before it is cooked, as it becomes 
light by standing — when making a batter beat the eggs, 
apart very lightly and pour them into the mixture, they^ 
will rise whilst standing. 

As a rule all pastry is indigestible because of the action: 
of the oven on the fat contained in it, and though a very^ 

[H. 10.] F 



I 



FOOD AND COOKERY 

popular article of food, especially among the young, it ought 
not to find a place in their dietary, nor should it be eaten 
by those who have weak stomachs. 

Boiled puddings in which there is fat are also indigestible. 

Baked flour is the best form in which to use it for the 
delicate, it may be either baked by simply putting it in the 
oven, or by tying it up in a basin with boilingwater around 
it — the flour collects in a hard solid mass, and it may be 
scraped or grated for use. The effect of heat is to break 
the starch granules and prepare them for the action of the 
digestive fluids. Milk thickened with this flour and 
sweetened is a nourishing wholesome dish. 

Some stomachs find that milk is too heavy for them, the 
fault maybe either that it is too rich or that the re-action of 
the stomach is too acid — soda-water or lime-water will be 
useful for diluting the milk and correcting the acidity of 
the stomach, or the milk may be made into whey. Whey 
is the liquid left after the curd has been separated by the 
action of rennet ; the whey may then be used as a drink, or 
as a gruel with some of the prepared flours. 

Baked milk is more palatable than boiled milk, and those 
who advocate its use assert that it is more digestibie. 

Jellies and gelatinous preparations are great favourites 
with some, as representing a vast amount of nourishment 
in a small bulk. The squire's wife makes jellies for her sick 
dependants, and places them on the .same level as beef-tea. 
This is a mistake, a good jelly is not a sign of nutriment, for 
all that is needed to make a jelly is gelatine, no matter 
whether you have it in the fresh state by stewing bones and 
cartilage, or whether you buy it as the gelatine of commerce. 
Jelly is useful as a vehicle, for it lends itself readily in com- 
bination with various nutritive .substances ; it is agreeable to 
the palate and is easily digested. Beef tea made into jelly 
by the use of isinglass or gelatine, will combine with port 
wine, and is both stimulating and nutritious. 

Jelly for the sick room should be made from fresh 
materials, calves' feet, and flavoured with sherry, only 
enough sugar to be used to give a slight taste of sweetness. 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 79 

Carageen moss, which by some is recommended for 
consumptive patients, the scrofulous, and for some forms of 
asthmatic cough, may be made into a jelly and eaten with 
milk, or the milk may be combined in the jelly. If the 
jelly is made with water, it may be flavoured with lemon 
peel, white wine and sugar. 

Vegetables, especially potatoes, must be thoroughly 
boiled, and all woody, fibrous parts and stalks be removed. 
It is a good plan to dry mash the potatoes for an invalid, 
and pass them through a sieve ; they may be lightly 
browned in the oven, which gives them a tempting look. 
Potatoes must not be cooked in any other way for invalids. 
Much care is necessary in cooking a potato, and for this 
reason how few people do it well. Potatoes are better 
steamed than boiled ; when properly done they should look 
like a ball of flour, and be soft all through. If waxy or 
sodden, they are not fit eating for weak people ; this fault 
may be from careless cooking, i.e., keeping them too long 
in the water after they are cooked, or because the potato 
is not a good kind. Steaming is more economical than 
boiling, and it is easier to carry through properly. A 
potato as a rule takes half an hour to boil, and except in 
the case of new potatoes, they should be placed in boiling 
water. 

The best potatoes should be selected, with few eyes and 
with no sign of germination, which makes the potato waxy. 
They have a finer taste, and waste less if cooked with their 
skins on. 

Green vegetables require care in washing and in strip- 
ping ; the parts used must be fresh and tender, all animals 
and insects removed — a delicate appetite is very .sensitive to 
the corpse of a young slug or snail ; before being served 
they must be well drained, and be sent up quite hot. 
Melted butter is not admissible for an invalid, but a substi- 
tute may be found — oil may be used instead of butter. 

Eggs will adapt themselves to any style of cookery, they 
are most useful in the invalid's dietary ; to diet an invalid 
who cannot eat eggs presents a most difficult problem. 

T 1 



FOOD AND COOKERY 

In whatever way they are cooked, they should always be 
done lightly, otherwise the white hardens and is in- 
digestible ; an egg poached is the best form of cooking, it 
should be served with the white just set. Fried eggs 
though tasty, are not wholesome, likewise hard boiled eggs 
are indigestible. There are many ways of cooking eggs 
that will suggest themselves, either plain or in combination 
with some other material. Beaten up raw in milk, with 
wine, or in beef-tea they are nourishing and stimulating ; 
with beer and water and some flavouring spice they make 
egg-flip. When they are taken raw, they should be beaten 
very thoroughly, by this means air is entangled in the 
fluid, and the glairy consistency is done away with. In 
the form of an omelette they are agreeable and nourish- 
ing, only how few can make an omelette well ; it requires 
promptitude and decision, for if you let the happy 
moment pass by whilst thinking about it, it turns out 
leathery. 

This chapter on cooking can hardly conclude without 
drawing attention to the Jewish mode of cooking and style 
of living. Its admirers claim for it great wholesomeness 
and adaptability to a weak digestion, and it is certainly 
worthy of note that the Christian children compare un- 
favourably with the Jewish in healthiness, longevity and 
power to resist disease. There are many factors in oper- 
ation to account for this ; but undoubtedly, the diet 
must have something to say to it. Readers of the Bible 
will be acquainted with the list of animals allowed for food, 
and the mode of killing prescribed These precepts are 
still observed, especially among the poor Jews. 

Their meat is most minutely inspected, to ensure its 
cleanliness and healthiness, by an independent authority ; 
all that is diseased, tainted or bruised is rejected and des- 
troyed. Very strict cleanliness is insisted upon in their 
slaughter-houses, and the slaughterer has to learn his work 
systematically, being taught a slight outline of anatomy 
before he is allowed to try his hand upon the poor beasts. 
The weapons used must be of the keenest, as any bruising 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 8i 

or lacerating in the wound made, renders the food unfit for 
^consumption. 

In the combination of their food, they never mix milk 
or its products with meat ; this by them is regarded as a 
breach of the precept "Thou shalt not seethe a kid in its 
mother's milk ;" the principle is that food killed by violence 
should not be mixed with that which is rendered up peac- 
ably, the mixture is an abomination. The idea may seem 
fknciful, but at least it has the merit of antiquity, and my 
object in drawing attention to the subject is, that it may 
receive some consideration as a system of dietary. 

The rule laid down may at first sight appear restrictive ; 
but the study of a Jewish cookery book will show that 
their dishes will equal ours in variety and taste, and that a 
very good meal may be planned and carried out by an 
intelligent housewife. 

We might certainly take a lesson from their scrupulous 
cleanliness, which accompanies the meat through all its 
stages until placed on the table, and any system that would 
strike at the root of our monstrous dinners, so unwieldy, so 
unwholesome and so extravagant, is to be welcomed. An 
article in the " National " has drawn attention to this 
modern failing — it is to be hoped that the word in season 
may be heard. 

Some who suffer from imperfect digestion having tried 
the Jewish system, affirm that it suits them much better, and 
the advocates of it assert that the secret of its healthiness 
lies in the absence of mixed foods, that for this reason it 
makes better blood, and that the whole vital system is 
purer. 

Considering the great diversity of idiosyncrasy, and the 
varied circumstances that surround the human family, it is 
not to be expected that every one should feed alike ; the 
great secret of maintaining the health, or improving it, is to 
bring common sense to bear upon the question. Our food 
should not occupy a great place in our thoughts, nor 
should the amount taken exceed that which we require for 
repair and nourishment ; we may have likes and dislikes, 



i 



82 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



r 

^^H so long as they are in subordination ; but fancies are in- 

^^H admissible, being, as their name implies, baseless and 

^^^1 wayward. Even in the act of eating and drinking we may 

^^H find scope for self-discipline and self-development, if we 

^^H make it a means of controlling our appetites. And so 

^^^H we bid farewell to the Infants and Invalids, both of im- 

^^H portance in the history of a nation, the one representing its 

^^^ future, the other, some of Its unused material that may 

I have much to do in moulding that future if only some of 
the obstacles are removed ; with the hope that some of the 

I hints in these pages may give a fresh impetus to the one, 

^^K and soften or ameliorate the life of the other. 



Foods Characterised by a Preponderance of 





Slaith. 


Sugar and Fat. 


Mineral 


Mallsr. 






&lT 


Meat. 


Wheat. 


Figs. 


Cabbages. 


Poultry. 


Flour. 


Bananas. 


Spinach. 
Watercresses. 


Game. 


Bread. 


Honey. § 


WildfowL 


Biscuits. 


Treacle. Sj 


Radish. 


Fish. 


Oatmeal. 


Manna. ^ 


Tomato. 


Milk. 


Barley. 


Grapes. 


All kinds of 


ge. 


Rye/ 


Beer. 


Fruit. 


Indian-Corn. 


Butter. 






Rice. 


Cream. 2 




Green Vegetables. 


Buck-Wheat, 


Cocoa. i^ 




Tripe. 


Beans. 


Chocolate. 




0,«er.. 


Peas. 

Lentils. 

Chestnuts. 

Potatoes, 

Carrot. 

Parsnip. 

Sago. 

Tapioca. 

Macaroni. 

Arrowroot. 


Eels. 





FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 83 



A LIST OF RECIPES REFERRED TO IN THE 

FOREGOING PAGES. 



Arrowroot Jelly. 

Put into a nice silver or block-tin saucepan, a pint of 
water, a glass of sherry or a dessert-spoonful of brandy, a 
little grated lemon-peel, and some fine sugar ; boil it up 
once, then mix it by degrees into a good dessert-spoonful 
of arrowroot, previously rubbed smooth with two teaspoons- 
ful of cold water — return the whole into the saucepan and 
boil it for three minutes, stirring it all the time. 

Barley Water. 

This medicinal drink is made from the pearl or Scotch 
barley, and may be either taken in its simple form, when 
cold, or flavoured with some of the substances given below. 
As there is some art required in making barley water 
properly, the following mode may be adopted with 
advantage. Take of, 

Clean pearl barley . . . 2 oz. 
Cold water 4} pts. 

Pour half a pint of the water on the barley in a saucepan, 
and simmer slowly for ten minutes ; pour off all the liquor 
remaining, and add the four pints of water to the softened 
barley, and boil slowly till the quantity is reduced to one 
half ; strain into a large jug, in which one or two slices of 
a lemon have been placed, with a few lumps of sugar. 
When cold, and properly stirred, a cupful may be taken 
repeatedly. The juice of a few oranges, with an ounce or 
two of bruised sugar-candy, or a quarter of a pound of 
tamarinds, may be substituted for the lemon, and when 
sufficiently mixed by stirring, the whole is to be again 



I 



84 FOOD AND COOKERY 

strained to keep back the seeds, twigs, and stones, and 
according to the ailment for which it is used, a wineglassful 
of the drink given every one or four hours. In inflam- 
matory diseases, or cases of bleeding from the lungs or 
stomach, a better form of barley water is made by adding 
to the two pints of boiled liquid, i oz. of simple syrup and i^ 
drms. of the red elixir of vitriol ; while in cases of cough, 
or affections of the chest, a cool, relaxing draught, acting 
on the vessels of the throat and chest, is produced by 
adding l drm. of powdered nitre to each pint of barley 
water, and a tablespoonful taken every hour or two. Barley 
water, made as above, in which 2 ounces of gum-arabic 
have been dissolved, and a drm. of nitre added, makes an 
admirable drink in all affections of the bladder, and in 
cases of strangury. 

Beef-te.\. 

Beef-tea, which is so valuable in cases of illness, is usually 
made by boiling the meat in water i this is a bad plan, as 
the fibres are hardened, and the soluble portions less 
readily extracted. It should be made by pouring a pint 
of cold water on half-a-poutid of finely-cut or chopped lean 
beef, and then placing it, in a covered earthenware vessel, 
by the fire for an hour or two. By this means the whole of 
the soluble, nutritious portions are extracted, and the 
insoluble fibre alone remains. A small quantity of salt 
and two or three cloves greatly improve the flavour. 
Carrots and turnips stewed in the beef-tea and strained out 
are sometimes used in h^emorrhagic typhoid fever with 
great advantage. 

Beef-tea (Savoury). 

Take three pounds of lean beef chopped up finely, three 
leeks, one onion with six cloves stuck into it, one small 
carrot, a little celery seed, a small bunch of herbs, con- 
sisting of thyme, marjoram, and parsley ; one teaspoonful 
of salt, half a toacupful of mushroom ketchup, and three 
pints of water. Prepare according to the directions already 
furnished. 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 85 

LiEBiG's Beef-tea. 

Take half a pound of raw lean beef (chicken or any 
other meat may be similarly used), and mince it finely. 
Pour on to it, in a glass or any kind of earthenware vessel, 
three-quarters of a pint of water, to which has been added 
four drops of muriatic acid, and about half a saltspoonful of 
salt. Stir well together, and allow it to stand for an hour. 
Strain through a hair sieve, and rinse the residue with a 
quarter of a pint of water. The liquid thus obtained 
contains the juice of the meat with the albumen in an 
uncoagulated state, and syntonine, or muscle fibrine, which 
has been dissolved by the agency of the acid. It is to be 
taken cold, or if warmed, must not be heated beyond 120® 
Fahrenheit It will be observed that no cooking is here 
employed, and although much richer in nutritive material, 
and more invigorating that ordinary beef-tea, the raw meat — 
colour; smell, and taste that it possesses — sometimes cause it 
to be objected to. 

Beef-tea (Another way). 

"A nutritious broth,'' says Letheby, "containing the 
albumen of the meat, as well as the soluble extract, is 
obtained by infusing a third of a pound of minced meat 
in fourteen ounces of cold soft water, to which four or five 
drops of muriatic acid and a little salt (from ten to 
eighteen grains) have been added. After digesting for an 
hour or so, it should be strained through a sieve, and the 
residue washed with five ounces of water and pressed. 
The mixed liquids thus obtained will furnish about a pint 
of cold extract of meat, containing the whole of the soluble 
constituents of the meat (albumen, creatine, etc.), and it 
may be drunk cold, or slightly warmed, the temperature 
not being raised above 100° Fahrenheit, for fear of 
coagulating the albumen. 

Bread Jelly. 

A thick slice of bread made of seconds flour, as 
containing more of the nitrogenous element than the best 



FOOD AND COOKERY 

white flour, and three days old, so as to be well dried and 
sweet, is placed in a basin of cold water, and allowed to 
soak for eight hours. All the water is then thoroughly 
squeezed out of it. The object of the first soaking and 
renioval of the original water is to clear away the lactic 
acid formed in fermentation, and all other irritant matters. 
The pulp is then placed in fresh water, and gently boiled 
for half an hour. The object of the boiling is to thoroughly 
soften and break up the starch corpuscles, which arc 
insoluble in the digestive fluids of young children. This 
water is strained away, and the remaining pulp rubbed 
through a fine hair sieve. It is then allowed to grow cold, 
when it should form a fine, smooth, jelly-like mass. 
Enough of this is then mixed with warm water to make 
food of the consistence of thin cream, so as to pass readily 
through the bottle. 

Boiled milk is added — at first only one or two tea- 
spoonfuls to the half bottle — and a little white sugar. The 
milk is slightly increased every few days, as the child is 
found able to digest it, and then it is gradually advanced at 
six or eight months old to pure milk, thickened with the 
jelly. 

The bread pulp should be freshly prepared night and 
morning, for it will not keep long. 



Chicken Panada. 

Take a large fowl, strip it of both skin and fat. Put it 
to boil in as much water or stock as will cover it. When 
done, take off" all the meat, and pound it in a mortar till 
quite fine. Theri mix it in the water it was boiled in, 
skim off all the fat, and strain it three times through a 
sieve, then put it into small cups and let it stand in warm 
wafer to dissolve and warm for eating. 

This may be made thin with veal broth. 

Half a cup to be taken twice a day. 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 87 

Chicken Jelly. 

Have a chicken prepared by taking off all the skin and 
fat, cutting it into pieces, and when thoroughly well mashed 
placed in a stone jar with a small piece of mace, tied up 
in muslin, and a little salt Put to it one teacupful of 
cold water, then tie down the opening of the jar with thick 
paper. Set the jar in a saucepan of warm not boiling 
water, put it on the hot hearth and let simmer for some 
hours — I lb. and half of veal or beef can be made in the 
same manner. 

CRfeME D' ORGE. 

I lb. of fresh veal, i lb. of fresh beef, 2 ozs. of pearl 
barley, stewed for six hours and then squeezed through a 
tammy — seasoned to taste. The proportion of water is 
three pints reduced to one pint 

Eggs Stirred with Butter. 

Break as many eggs as you require in a small basin, beat 
them well with salt and pepper to taste, have in a small 
saucepan an ounce of butter, warm it well, turn in the eggs, 
keep stirring them with a fork, dish up on a hot dish, have 
hot plates ready. 

Eggs with Butter Whole. 

Have a small white dish or plate that will stand the fire, 
put it on the hob quite close to the fire, put a good piece 
of butter (i oz. will be enough for 6 eggs), sprinkle a little 
salt and pepper, . crack the eggs in a cup, slip each one 
separately on the dish that is ready to cook them, they 
will set nicely, put over them a little salt and pepper so 
that they will be seasoned right through, send them up to 
table on the same dish another dish under. 

Flour and Milk. 

Fill a small basin with flour and tie it over with a cloth, 
or if preferred, simply tie the flour up in a cloth. Immerse 



FOOD AND COOKERY 

it in a saucepan of water and boil slowly for ten or twelve 
hours. 

The flour becomes agglomerated into a hard mass, and 
is only wetted on the surface. After drying, add one 
grated tablespoonful to a pint of milk and boil. A 
nourishing and useful article of food for irritable states of 
the stomach and bowels, and particularly suitable 
dysentery and diarrhcea. 

Plain biscuit powder may be substituted, if thought 
proper, for the cooked flour. 

Hominy. 

Wash it in two or three waters, pour boiling water on it, 
and let it stand all night Take it out, and put it in a 
saucepan, one quart of hominy to two of water, and boil 
four or five hours till quite soft. Drain it, put it into a 
deep dish, and stir in some butter. If any is left cold, cut 
it in slices and fry it. 

Iceland Moss. 
Boil \ oz of Iceland Moss in 5 noggins of water, on a slow 
fire, to I pint. Add two dessert spoonfuls of soft sugar, strain 
it. Two table spoonfuls may be taken three or four times in 
the day. If you like you may add a spoonful of milk to 
each dose. Keep the bottle in a cool place. It answers to 
put the bottle down in cold water. 

Isinglass Jelly. 
Take of Isinglass i oz. , water one quart, cloves 4- of an oz. 
Boil to a pint and then strain the liquor through a flannel 
bag upon 4 ozs. of double refined sugar, and one gill of 
mountain wine. When they are well mixed pour the jelly 
into glasses. 

To MAKE Koumiss, or Artificial Mare's Milk. 

To eight cups of new milk add one cup of buttermilk. 
Let it stand at a little distance from the fire until it grows 



FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 89 

thick ; then beat it smartly with a whisk, for about ten or 
fifteen minutes, adding two lumps of sugar to prevent it 
going into butter, and then bottle and cork it. Let it be 
well shaken when you give it to the patient, and the hand 
held high in pouring it out, that it may froth. If this is too 
rich for the stomach, a cup of water may be added on 
making the next quantity. A cup of this to be kept for 
the next brewing, as it answers better than buttermilk. 

It will be ready for use a few hours after it is bottled, 
and a sufficient quantity may be made to last at least two 
days, provided it be not kept in too warm a place, and 
care must be taken that the bottle does not burst 

To MAKE Lemonade. 

For a large quantity, take the rinds of four very fresh 
lemons, cut up as fine as possible, put it in two quarts of 
water, cut the lemons in halves, squeeze them through a 
sieve in the water, boil i lb. of loaf sugar ,with a pint of 
water to a syrup. When cold, turn the syrup into the water, 
stir it all well together, if not acid enough put more lemon 
or more sugar if required, let it stand for an hour before 
using. This drink is very nice iced in the summer. 

Meat Essence. 

Take i lb. of mutton (from the middle of leg) i lb. of 
beef and i lb. of veal — without skin, bone or fat Put in 
earthenware jar, tie tightly down. Put the jar in a sauce- 
pan of water, boil 8 hours, strain ; when cold remove all 
the fat, it is then fit for use. 

Milk Soup. 

Four large potatoes, two leeks, two ounces of butter, three 
tablespoonfuls of crushed tapioca, one pint of milk. Put 
the potatoes and leeks, cut in four, in a saucepan, with two 
quarts of boiling water and two ounces of butter, a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and pepper to taste. Boil an hour, rub through 



90 FOOD AND COOKERY 

a colander, and return it to the saucepan, add the milk, 
sprinkle in the tapioca, and let it boil fifteen minutes. 

Milk and Suet. 

Boil one ounce of iinely-chopped suet with a quarter of a 
pint of water for ten minutes, and press through linen or 
flannel. Then add one drachm of bruised cinnamon, one 
ounce of sugar, and three quarters of a pint of milk. 

Boil again for ten minutes and strain, A wineglassful 
to a quarter of a pint forms the quantity to be taken at a 
time. It constitutes a higly nutritive and fattening article, 
but if given in excess is apt to derange the alimentary 
canal, and occasion diarrhosa. 

Mutton Broth. 

Take of a loin of mutton, one pound, water three pints 
— put them in a saucepan, and set it upon a clear fire, throw 
in a little salt, and as the scum rises take it carefully off 
with a spoon — then add a little onion if there is no objection 
to it, and 2 blades of mace. Boil till the meat is very 
tender, then take it out, pour the broth into a basin, and 
when cold skim the fat part which is congealed on the 
surface entirely off ; after which a part of the broth may 
be warmed and given to the patient when needful. A little 
rice may be added here occasionally. 

Mutton Chops with Tomatoes. 

Take some nice mutton chops with the fat trimmed off, 
put them in a stewpan with salt, pepper, and onion chopped, 
slice 3 or 4 large tomatoes. Let all cook together with 
about a cupful of water. When the chops are tender take 
them out, let them drain well from the gravy, then turn the 
tomatoes and liquor into a sieve, pulp it well, it will be quite 
thick, put the piece of a lemon with it. Turn it all over 
the chops. Let it boil before you dish it up, sprinkle over 
a little chopped parsley, if liked a little cayenne is always 
an improvement to the tomatoes. 



FOR INFANT^ AND INVALIDS. 91 

Porridge. 

The best method of making porridge is to strew oat- 
meal with one hand into a vessel of boiling water (to which 
salt has been previously added), so gradually that it does 
not become lumpy, stirring the mixture all the time with 
the other hand. After about four ounces of coarse oat- 
meal have been stirred into a quart of boiling water, the 
whole should be allowed to stand by the side of the 
fire, so as to simmer gently and thicken for twenty or 
thirty minutes. Porridge is usually eaten with milk. It is 
excellent for children. 

Semolina. 

Semolina is coarsely ground wheat, and is very nutritious. 

Boil one tablespoon in half a pint of milk ten minutes, 
stirring all the time, sweeten with one dessert-spoonful of 
powdered white sugar ; it can be eaten hot, or put in a 
shape to turn out cold. To make it into a pudding, add 
one egg lightly beaten and bake fifteen minutes. 

Tomato Soup. 

Have 6 or 7 large red tomatoes ; cut them in halves, 
put them in a saucepan at the side of the fire with no 
water, let them simmer till quite tender, rub them through 
a sieve till only their skins remain. Have a quart of 
stock ready at the side ; stir them well in till it is quite 
smooth ; have ready in your tureen the juice of a lemon 
and a little cayenne. 

Many persons like toasted bread with this soup. 

An Easy Way to Cook Tripe. 

Have it well washed and cleaned, boil it in a saucepan 
in thin flour and water to keep its colour, salt and pepper. 
When done strain it out of the water, slice an onion in a 
stew pan with a little fat, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, half 
pint of the water in which it was boiled ; let it cook for 



r 



'Mi . I 






."i 



■ A 



.■■•.«^; 






V • 92 iJ'CX^Z? ^ ATZ) COOKER Y FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 

half an hour ; have in a basin some chopped parsley, a few 
capers, a teaspoonful of flour, a little dried saffron, i table- 
spoonful of vinegar, mix it all well together ; dish it up ; 
serve with mashed potatoes. 

White Wine Whey. 

To half a pint of milk whilst boiling in a saucepan, add 
one wine glassful of sherry, and afterwards strain ; sweeten 
with pounded sugar, according to taste. A useful drink in 
colds and mild febrile disorders. 



••';'^. V 



'*»^ 



<''-ft\ 



\ 



r.' 






r- 



lonvon: pkintbd by william clowbs and sons, limited' stampokd stkbbt 

and charing cross. 



L 



.-'^ 






