Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 




• • • t 



131066V 



\ 

\ 



A HANDBOOK 



or 



GASTRONOMY. 



PUBLISHERS' NOTE. 

Three hundred copies of this book printed for Ent^land, and 
two hundred, with an American imprint, for sale in that country. 
yo more will be printed. 



No. 



fL 



'f^^:^m^r: 







BRILJLAT'SAVARIN*S PHYSIOLOGIE DU GOUT 



A HANDBOOK 



OF 



GASTRONOME 



jBct0 HIS Cra^Icte Qlrts^Ittiov 



M '//'// I'lFrV'TWO ORHUXAL J£TCJf/.\iiS 

By A. LALAUZE 



LONDON 

J. C. NIMMu AND IIAIN 

14. K.1NG WILLIAM STREET. STRAND, W.C 

XS84 



)ifX. e- 1. 






PUBLISHERS' NOTICE. 



T^HERE have been several Editions of Brillat- 
Savarin's Physiologie du G&ut in an English 
dress, but they have all been curtailed and more 
or less altered. The present unabridged trans- 
lation is, we believe, the first attempt made 
to 'oSer to English readers this book as it was 
written. 

The Notes marked Tr. are the Translators; 
the Author is answerable for the others. 




CONTENTS. 



Publisrek's Notice 

Pkeface and Life of Biili^t-Savakin by MoN' 

Aphorisms 

Dialogue between the Author and a Priekd . 
BlOGBAFUr 

Preface by the Author 

MEDITATION I.— Os the Senses. 

I, Number of (he Senses 

a. Action of the Senses 

3. iDiprovemenl of llie Senses 

4. Power of (he Tas(e 

5. Object o( the Action of the Senses .... 

MEDITATION II,— Of Taste. 

6. DefiDEtEoD of Taste 

7. Mechanism or Taile 

8. Sensation of Tasle 

g. Savours 

10. Influence of Smell on Taste 

11. AnalTSisof the Sensation of Taste .... 
13. Soccessionoflhe Divers Impressions of Taste . 

13. Enjoyments due to the Taste 

14. Supremacy of Mod 

15. Melbod adopted by the Author 



CONTENTS. 



MEDITATION III.— On Gastronomy 



z6. Origin of Sciences .... 

17. Origin of Gastronomy 

18. Definition of Gastronomy . 

19. Various objects treated on by Gastronomy 
2a Use of Gastronomic Knowledge 

31. Influence of Gastronomy on Business 

32. A Gastronomic Academy . 



PACE 

70 

71 

73 

74 
76 

77 
78 



MEDITATION IV. -Appetite. 

33. Definition of Appetite . 80 

34. Anecdote 81 

35. Great Appetites 84 

MEDITATION V.— On Food in General. 

36. Definition 89 

37. Analysis 90 

38. Osmazome 91 

The Composition of Foods 92 

39. The Vegetable Kingdom 94 

Difference between Fat and Lean .... 96 

30. Individual Instance 97 

MEDITATION VI.— Special Kinds op Food. 

31. Specialities zoo 

32. Pot-au>feu, Soup, &c. loi 

33. Of Bouilli 102 

34. Poultry 103 

315. The Turkey 105 

36. Turkey-lovers 107 

37. Influence of the Turkey on the Money Market • 107 

38. An Exploit of the Professor . . . . .108 

39. On Game Z15 

40. Of Fish 119 

Anecdote 121 

41. Muria. — Garum 122 

42. Philosophical reflection .126 

43. Of Truffles 126 

Erotic Virtue of Truffles 127 



CONTENTS. xi 

PACK 

Are TnifSes indigestible? 133 

45. Sugar I 136 

Indigenous Sugar 137 

Various uses of Sugar 140 

461 Of Coffee — Origin of Coffee 143 

Various modes of Making Coffee . . . .145 
Effects of Coffee 146 

47. Of Chocolate— Origin of Chocolate . . . .151 

Properties of Chocolate 154 

Difficulties in Making good Chocolate . -157 

The best way of Making Chocolate . . i6z 

MEDITATION VII. 

48. Theory op Frting 163 

Allocution , . . 164 

Chemistry 15^ 

Application x56 

MEDITATION VIIL 

49' OpThikst 170 

Different Varieties of Thirst 171 

50. Causes of Thirst 174 

51. Exami^ , 176 

MEDITATION IX. 

52. On Dsinks x8o 

"Water . , 180 

Prompt effect of Drinks 181 

53. Strong Drinks 183 

MEDITATION X. 

54. Episodic on the End op the Wosld . .185 

MEDITATION XL 



On Gouskandisb 189 

Definitions 190 

Advantages of Gounnandise 191 

56U Sequel 193 

Influence of Gounnandise 193 



XIV CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

I03. Continuation 304 

103. Anecdote , 305 

104. Inconvenience of Corpulence 307 

105. Examples of Corpulence 307 

MEDITATION XXII. 

106. A Preservative or Curative Treatment op 

Corpulence , 3x1 

107. General Rules 313 

108. Continuation of the Regimen . . . . .317 

109. Danger of Acids . . . . . .318 

iia Anti-Corpulence Belt 32a 

III. Penxvian Bark 323 

MEDITATION XXIII. 

On Leanness 326 

ZI3. Definition— Kinds of Leanness 326 

113, Effects of Leanness 327 

Z14. Natural predestination 328 

1 15. A Fattening Diet 329 

MEDITATION XXIV. 

Op Fasting 33a 

116. Definition— Origin of Fasting 332 

117. How People used to Fast 333 

1x8. Origin of the Relaxation of Fasting .... 336 

MEDITATION XXV. 

119. On Exhaustion 340 

laa Treatment 341 

131. A Cure performed by the Professor . . . .341 

MEDITATION XXVI. 

X2a. On Death 345 

MEDITATION XXVII. 

123. Philosophical History OP Cookery . . .350 

124. Order of Foods 351 

135. Discovery of Fire 353 

ia6. Baking 3^ 

127. Feasts of the OrienCals,- Of the Greeks ... 357 



CONTENTS. XT 



among the Romans 360 

zagw Resurrection of Loculliis 365 

230. Lectistemium and Incubitaiion .... 367 

131. Poetry 370 

13a. Invasion of the Baibarians 370 

133. The Age of Louis XIV. and Louis XV. . . 376 

Z34. Louis XVL 381 

Z35. Ameliorations in xelation to Art . • . .381 

Z36L Final Improvements 383 

MEDITATION XXVIII. 

137. Of Parisian Restaurants and their Kbefbrs 386 

138. The Restaurant 387 

X39. Advantages of Restaurants 388 

T.|Ou A Glance round a Dining-Room in Paris . . • 390 

Z4Z. Inconvenience of Restaurants 393 

143. Competition 39a 

143. Restaurants at fixed Prices 393 

144. Beauvilliers 396 

Z45. The Gastronomer at the Restaurant .... 398 

MEDITATION XXIX. 

CUISSICAL GoURMANDISE PUT IN PRACTICE . 399 

Z46L History of M. de Borose 399 

X47. The Retinue of an Heiress ..... 4x5 

MEDITATION XXX.--BOUQUET. 

Z48. Gastronomical Mtthologt .... 4x7 

Transition 426 

VARIETIES 

I. The Curb's Omelette 431 

Preparation of a Tunny Omelette .... 434 

Theoretical Notes on the Preparation of this Dish . 435 

II. Eggs in Gravy 435 

II L A National Victory 436 

IV. Ablutions 441 

V. Mystification of the Professor and Defeat of the 

General ......... 443 



Xvi CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

VI. The Dish of Eels 447 

VII. The Asparagus 449 

VIII. The Plot 450 

IX. The Turbot 455 

X, Various Restorative Preparations by the Professor, 
Improvised for the Case mentioned in Medita- 
tion XXV 459 

XI. The Pullet of Bresse 463 

XI 1. The Pheasant 465 

XIII. Gastronomical Industry of the Emigrcis . . 468 

XIV. Other Recollections of the Emigration . .471 

The Weaver 471 

The Famishing Man 474 

The Silver Lion 474 

Stay in America 475 

A Battle 475 

XV. A Bundle of Asparagus 479 

XVI. The Fondue 480 

Receipt for the Fondue 481 

XVII. Disappointment '482 

XVIII. Marvellous Effects of a Classical Dinner . . 483 

XIX. Effects and Dangers of Strong Drinks . . . 484 

XX. Chevaliers and Abb<Ss 485 

XXI. Miscellanea 487 

XXII. A Day with the Bemardines .... 489 

XXIII. Happiness on a Journey 495 

XXIV. Poetry 501 

Song of Demochares at the Banquet of Dinias . 50a 

Song of Motin 503 

Song of Racan to Maynard .... 505 

The Choice of Sciences, a Song by the Professor . 506 

Impromptu, by M. Boscary de Ville-Plaine . 507 
The Agony, a Physiological Romance, by the 

Professor 508 

XXV. M. Henrion de Pansey 508 

XXVI. Addresses 510 

XXVII. Privations. Historical Elegy . . . .512 
Envoy to the Gastronomers of Both Worlds . . •515 




PREFACE. 



!>R a long time I wished id say some- 
thing about Britlat-Savarin. This figure, 
smiling rather than laughing, this well- 
lined paunch, this stylish mind and 
stomach, tempted me. The opportunity could not be 
better, and I profit by it 

Anthelme Brillat-Savarin, or Brillat de Savarin (for 
he signs himself thus in his " Essay on Duels "), was 
bom at Belley, in the Ain, on the first of April, 1755, 
and died at Paris, on the second of February, 1826. 
He, therefore, lived seventy-one years. He had time 
enough wherein to eat. Moreover, nature had pre- 
destined him for this important (unction. She gave 
him a lofty figure, robust health, and an inexhaustible 
Sow of good humour. Without ambition, inclined 



2 PREFACE. 

to Study, and sufficiently rich, he seemed to lead the 
peaceable and happy life of a country la>*yer, who has 
a knife and fork laid for him in all decent country 
houses. Until he was thirty-four years old, people 
saw him often going to and fro in the fertile country 
of Bugey, sometimes sitting down in well-provisioned 
inns, where strings of poultry were roasting, some- 
times opposite to some jovial curd, sometimes coping 
with noisy huntsmen. From that time, there remained 
in his memory those precious receipts that he was to 
leave to posterity — the fondue, the omelette with 
tunny, the stuffed pheasant, &c. 

The Revolution came and cut short all these joyous 
parties. His fellow-citizens, who had learnt to ap- 
preciate his good qualities, sent him to the Con- 
stauent Assembly. There Brillat-Savarin made not 
a worse figure than any other ; but he did not seem 
prepared for the great work that was going on. On 
returning to his department, he was named president 
of the civil tribunal. Nothing would serve but that 
he should occupy some position. What did they 
expect of him? I do not know. The year 1793 
found him Mayor of Belley. He thought this work 
too heavy for his shoulders, and as Switzerland was 
only a few steps off, he went to seek there a refuge 
against a movement that he found it impossible to 
direct or to moderate. I do not know how far we 
have to believe in the persecutions which were said 
to have been directed against him ; government had 
to occupy itself with many other things at that time. 



PREFACE. 3 

Certain it is, Brillat-Savarin went to the United 
States, where the repose he enjoyed during two years 
profited to his beloved studies. The pages which he 
has written about his stay in America are his best ; 
among them are sketches of rustic glades and in- 
teriors, painted with a lightness and a charm that 
Chateaubriand himself might have envied. 

When he returned to France, the Directory was in 
lull swing. Thrown on a sea of adventures, Brillat- 
Savarin, who had been deprived of his property at 
Bugey, accepted a post of secretary on the staff of 
the armies of the Republic in Germany. Afterwards 
he was sent as commissary of the Government in the 
Department of Seine-et-Oise. Finally, after the 
1 8th Brumaire, at which he was present, with a 
resignation that I can scarcely appreciate, the Senate 
housed him for life, and made him a counsellor 
in the Court of Cassation. 

It was in this haven that he passed the twenty-five 
last years of his life, scarcely troubled by the over- 
throw of the Hundred Days, maintained by all 
governments, which philosophically he refrained from 
disputing. It was on this magisterial seat that he 
elaborated his *' Handbook of Gastronomy," the work 
and epitome of his whole life. 

We find ourselves here in the presence of a well- 
known book that can only be mentioned with praise ; 
of a book conceived soundly, proceeding by clever 
deductions, written in the most natural style in the 
world, which does not exclude liveliness and an 



4 PREFACE. 

originality peculiar to the temperament of its author. 
I only find a little stiffness here and there in the 
arrangement, which is even a mark of reverence to 
the reader, and a proof that the author seeks to 
please him by cutting up the pieces in small and 
attractive mouthfuls. Where Brillat-Savarin excels 
in most is in anecdote : he possesses its real secret, 
elegance, and tone. 

He has gained and gains many men every day 
to gastronomy solely by the perfect wisdom of his 
precepts and by his good and well-balanced common 
sense. Coming after Grimod de la Reyni^re, he 
united in a body of doctrine the teaching and the 
scattered information that he had gathered from him. 
He fixed them for ever. There was between Grimod 
de la Reyni^re and Brillat-Savarin the difference that 
there is between a g^eat eater and a delicate eater.* 

Grimod de la Reyni^re was a Rabelaisian, a per- 

* We must make everything enter into a biography, even a dis- 
cordant note, on the condition that it comes from an authority. Now, 
this title of " delicate eater " has been denied to Brillat-Savarin. And 
by whom? By the Marquis de Cussy, to whom no one will deny 
authority. I am quite amused in transcribing the following lines from 
his Art Culinain : — "Brillat-Savarin ate copiously and ill; he chose 
little, talked dully, had no vivacity in his looks, and was absorbed at 
the end of a repast." In other respects, the Marquis de Cussy was 
willing to praise his rival. At the beginning of the Observations that 
he has left on the '* Handbook of Gastronomy," he said : — " To per- 
ceive some slight spots on the sun does not prevent us from recognising 
the brilliancy of iu rays." This is right ; but as a guest he is not less 
cruelly, and, I fear, unjustly attacked. Brillat-Savarin was like the 
rest of the world — he had his good and his bad days. 



PREFACE. 5 

petual starveling, with a number of preferences never- 
theless, and a man who could not be prevented from 
casting a tender regard on the junketing at Camacho's 
wedding. His enthusiasm, which was unbridled, 
drove him to cry out somewhere, " I would eat my 
own father with such a sauce." And he would have 
done it. Brillat-Savarin does not go so far. He 
would never have eaten anybody with any sauce 
whatever. 

The principal merit of Grimod de la Reyni^, and 
that one which endows him with sovereign claims to 
our gratitude, is that of having been the historian of 
cookery. His eight years of the "Almanack of 
Gourmands" represent eight years of contest He 
has, as all journalists have, a good many inevitable 
faults, compliances, injustices, and careless judg- 
ments, but one cannot deny him ardour, devotion, 
and that faith which raises pie-crusts. We may say 
of him that he kept going the kitchen-stoves, after 
having saved them, perhaps, during the great ship- 
wreck of the Revolution. At all events, he is the 
connecting link that unites the past to the future. 

Brillat-Savarin is more especially a legislator. In 
him there is something of Boileau. Yet he warms 
up now and then. His saying, "And you will see 
marvels," has become celebrated. The "Handbook 
of Gastronomy" has had many editions, but not 
in quick succession : its success was made slowly and 
surely. Now-a-days it is what is called a library 
book. 



6 PREFACE. 

I have questioned many people who knew Brillat- 
Savarin, especially in the society of the Rdcamiers, of 
whom he was a relative. Their opinion was unani- 
mous about him ; he was amiable, delicate, highly 
fashionable. His hobbies were connected with his 
favourite passion, and it is thus that he upset the 
feelings of all his colleagues in the Court of Cassa- 
tion by the smell of the game that he carried in his 
pockets to get high. A frequenter of the cafd 
Lemblin, he came there with a dog who became 
legendary. He lived in the Rue des Filles-Saint- 
Thomas. His widow lived long after him. M. 
Lefeuve affirms that she was still living in 1859, in 
the Rue Vivienne. 

I have read nearly all that has been written about 
Brillat-Savarin. Can it be believed ? The article 
about him in the Biograpkie Universelle is by Balzac, 
one of the least eating men that has ever existed in 
the literary world, a man who did not spend more 
time at table than Napoleon. But gastronomy 
is made up above all of lost time. We do not 
" take a snack " in the kingdom of Comus. The 
article of Balzac is none the less well composed, 
as all that has come from the pen of this writer, 
who has carried so far his gifts of intuition and 
assimilation.* 

* Balsac owed thU compltiiient to Brillat-Savartn, for it it his 
Pkjsiclogi* du GoAt that inspired him with his ** Physiology of 
Marriage." He introduces also Meditations and Aphorisms, and 
borrows the professorial accent. 



PREFACE. 7 

Some other litterateurs, Alphonse Karr, Eugene 
Bareste, &c., have also published notices on Brillat- 
Savarin, but I can see nothing characteristic in any 
of them. 

The Physiologie du GoUt has had an imitator 
or rather a continuer in the anonymous author of 
a book which appeared in 1839, under the title, 
" Neophysiology of Taste, or General Dictionary of 
French Cookery, Ancient and Modem," &c., &c., 
dedicated to the author of the " Memoirs of the 
Marchioness of Crdquy " (Paris : one large octavo vol. 
of 635 pages). It is a very excellent repertory, very 
practical, filled with amusing digressions, and which 
deserves to be better known. Its author, who is 
assuredly a bom gastronomer, teases often on 
several points his illustrious predecessor, which does 
not prevent him from rendering justice to his high 
competence. From indications almost certain, and 
especially from the dedication, I believe that I am 
right in attributing the "Neophysiology of Taste" 
to the Count de Courchamps. This was also the 
opinion of Roger de Beauvoir. 

Has gastronomy progressed since the time of 
Bnllat-Savarin ? This is a question that I hear 
often put, and to which I would gladly reply in the 
affirmative ; but I look in vain for the tables that 
are praised or the hosts that are renowned. Where 
are the great cooks ? What names have we now to 
oppose to those of Cardme and Robert ? 

Yet, nevertheless, we eat a great deal ; restaurants 



I 

1 



8 PREFACE. 

are multiplied to infinity. What has cookery gained ? 
I ought rather to say what it has lost. Nearly all 
the roasts are now done in the oven. An abomi- 
nation ! 

An old and worthy cook, finding himself without 
resources, went out one morning concealing as best 
he could under his overcoat something long and 
slender wrapped in paper. He turned towards the 
pawnshop of the Rue des Blancs-Manteaux, the 
central dep6t and mother-house of the French monts 
de pUU, There he went before one of the windows 
and put his parcel before the clerk. 

" What is this ? " said the man. 

'* It is Ernestine, the faithful companion of all 
my life." 

And in pronouncing these words, the cook wiped 
away a big tear. 

" Open the parcel," said the clerk. 

The cook did so ; and exhibited a spit, sharp 
and shining. 

" The queen of spits ! " he murmured. 

"We don't lend an>thing on that here," replied 
the clerk. 

" Did you speak ? " 

" I told you that we never take spits in 
pawn." 

" Unless they are set with diamonds," said another 
facetious clerk. 

The cook remained immovable, without under- 
standing, while everybody laughed around him. 



PREFACE. 9 

"Now, be off," said the employ^; "you are in 
the way." 

"What do you want me to do with it?" sighed 
the poor man ; " they don't cook more anywhere ! " 

" Pack up and hook it, I tell you." 

•* O Ernestine ! what will become of us ? " 

After this cry, which would have melted the heart 
of a wild beast, but which did not move the clerks 
of the pawnshop, the unhappy man picked up his 
spit, which he did not take the trouble to wrap up, 
and ran out with quick steps. In the road every- 
body turned to look at this weeping man, brandish- 
ing this rod of iron. 

The solicitude of the practitioners of the present 
time — and there are many clever ones — is entirely 
devoted to the ornamental matters of the kitchen, to 
decorations, to the service of the table. They attend 
to the " aspics," " chartreuses," or any " set piece ; " 
they merely work for show. 

A cook is now only an impresario of a theatre, 
whose whole mind is exclusively engrossed with 
decorations and costumes. Therefore, why not let 
Ch^ret paint meals for us ? In all stages, and among 
all classes of society, I encounter this invading 
mania of " keeping up appearances." Shall I speak 
of official cookery, of ministerial dinners, where 
a band plays at intervals ; a theatrical invention, 
injurious to the guests, and which destroys con- 
versation. These are not the dinners to which 

people go to eat There, especially, the cook is 

B 



/: 



lO PREFACE. 

more proud of a Chinese kiosk on a rock in coloured 
and spun sugar, which no person dare touch, than 
of a carp k la Chambord treated in a masterly way. 
Since the days of Cambacdr6s, official cookery has 
ceased to exist. 

Another cause of the stationary state of gas- 
tronomy is, that all dinners are like each other. 
That which you ate yesterday in the Faubourg Saint- 
Germain, you will eat to-morrow in the Faubourg 
Saint- Honor^. At the end of the week you recog- 
nise that you have merely changed your knife and 
fork ; the chief dishes of the tnenu have always been 
the same ; a turbot with two different sauces, a 
" filet k la royale," fowls " k la Perigueux," a York 
ham, and a dish of crayfish. This poverty of imagi- 
nation, this absence of research, are unworthy of a 
countr>' such as ours. 

We must act But how ? Formerly there were 
groups, series of intelligent and special men, who 
met to eat. These groups were a perpetual 
stimulant for the cooks ; they have disappeared and 
are not now replaced ; but they may be. Without 
looking too far, we find, principally amongst certain 
doctors, a few sparks of the sacred fire. The 
Renaissance may also come from the clubs, which 
only have to show themselves more imperious in 
the matter of their dinners. One of the last good 
"chefs" of the Jockey Club of Paris was Jules 
Gouff<5, whose style was pretty and easy, without too 
much show. 



PREFACE. 1 1 

Good female cooks have become more rare than 
the phenix, and are worth their weight in gold. 
Upon the whole, the situation should be more 
cheerfuL French gastronomy lives on its past, and 
has lost nothing of its prestige in the eyes of the 
stranger; but this is not enough. The pause is 
too marked. May the perusal of Brillat-Savarin 
excite ambitions and determine vocations.* 

CHARLES MONSELET. 
Parts, joth Nov, 1879. 



* I add a last note to perpetuate one of my surprises. Neither 
Brillat-Savaruif nor Grimod de la Reynib^ nor even the Marquis of 
Cassy, have given a great importance to wine. It seems that they only 
considered it as a digestive elemenL Provided that it was good, they 
did not ask for more ; and they did not make any distinctions between 
our innumerable brands of Burgundies and of clarets. Was the 
eaiqnisite sense of this important part of taste entirely wanting to 
them f In this respect, at least, we are superior to them. 





APHORISMS 

OF THE PROFESSOR 



TO SERVE AS PSOLEOOMENA TO HIS WORK. ANP 
AS AN ETERNAL BASIS TO SCIENCE. 



The world would have been merely nothing except 
for life. All that lives, feeds. 



Animals find, man eats; wise men alone know 
how to eat 



14 APHORISMS. 



III. 



The destiny of nations depends on the manner 
wherein they take their food. 

IV. 

Tell me what thou eatest, and I will tell thee 

what thou art. 

V. 

The Creator, though condemning man to eat to 

live, invites him to do so by appetite, and rewards 

him by enjoyment 

VI. 

Good living is an act of our judgment by which 

we grant a preference to those things which are 

agreeable to the taste above those that have not 

that quality. 

VII. 

The joys of the table belong equally to all ages, 

conditions, countries, and times ; they mix with all 

other pleasures, and remain the last to console us for 

their loss. 

VIII. 

The table is the sole locality where no one during 
the first hour feels himself tired. 

IX. 

The discovery of a new dish is more beneficial 
to humanity than the discovery of a new star. 



APHORISMS. 15 

X. 

The dyspeptic man and the drunkard are incapable 
of either eating or drinking. 

XL 

The order of food is from the most solid to the 
most light 

XII. 

The order of drink is from the mildest to the most 
heady and the most scented. 

XIII. 

To say that we should not mix our liquors is a 
heresy. The tongue becomes saturated, and after 
the third glass, the finest wine only gives an obtuse 
sensation. 

XIV. 

Dessert without cheese, is like a pretty girl with 
only one eye. 

XV. 

A cook may be educated, but a <* roast cook " must 
be bom such. 

XVI. • 

The most indispensable quality in the cook is 
punctuality, and such ought to be the duty of the 
guests. 



1 6 APHORISMS. 

XVII. 

To wait too long for a late guest denotes a lack 
of consideration to all those who are present. 

XVIII. 

He who receives guests, and pays no personal 
care to the repast offered them, is not worthy to 
have friends. 

XIX. 

The hostess should always assure herself that the 
coffee is good, and the host that the liqueurs are of 
the finest quality. 

XX. 

To invite any one, implies that we charge our- 
selves with his happiness all the time that he is 
under our roof. 



^^sim^ 




DIALOGUE 

BETWEEN THE AUTHOR AND A FRIEND. 



KAfitr (fa FirsI Cemfli/naiis.) 

Friemo. 

■tHIS morning, at break^t, my wife and 
I decreed in our wisdom that you should 
print, as early as possible, your " Gas- 
c Meditations." 



Author. 
What women will, God wills. This is, in five 
words, the whole Parisian charter. But I do not 
belong to that parish, and a bachelor . . . 



1 8 dialogue. 

Friend. 

Good Heavens ! Bachelors are as much broken 
in as the rest, and often to our great prejudice. But 
here celibacy will not help you, for my wife pre- 
tends that she has a right to command, because 
it was at her place in the country that you wrote 
your first pages. 

Author. 

You know, dear doctor, my deference to ladies ; 
you have more than once praised my submission to 
their orders ; you were also amongst those who said 
that I should make an excellent husband, and never- 
theless I cannot print 

Friend. 
Why? 

Author. 

Because, devoted by the nature of my profession to 
serious studies, I fear that those who merely know 
my book by the title-page will imagine that I only 
occupy myself with insignificant things. 

Friend. 

A panic terror ! TTiirty-six years of work, public 
and continuous, have established for you a contrary 
reputation. Besides, my wife and I think that all 
the world will be glad to read you. 



dialogue. 19 

Author. 
ReaUy? 

Friend. 

Educated men will read you, to divine and learn 
that which you have only sketched out 

Author. 
That may well be. 

Friend. 

Women will read you, as they will see clearly 
that ... 

Author. 

Dear friend, I am old ; I have acquired wisdom. 
Miserere met. 

Friend. 

Gourmands will read you, inasmuch as you do 
them justice, and give to them the exact rank they 
merit in Society. 

Author. 

Now you are right Poor gourmands; I cannot 
imagine they have been so long misunderstood. I 
have for them a fatherly love. They are so smart, 
and their eyes are so bright 

Friend. 

Moreover, have you not often said that your work 
would supply a lack in every library ? 



r 



20 DIALOGUE. 



Author. 



I have said so ; the fact is true, and I will be 
hanged rather than deny a letter of it. 

Friend. . 

But you speak as a man already convinced, and 
you will come with me to the . . . 

Author. 

Oh no! If the profession of author has its 
pleasures, it has also its thorns, and 1 leave all this 
to my heirs. 

Friend. 

But you disinherit your friends, your acquaintances, 
and your contemporaries. Have you the courage to 
act thus ? 

Author. 

My heirs ! my heirs ! I have heard it said that 
ghosts are singularly flattered by the praise of the 
living, and this is a sort of blessing I wish to reser\'e 
for myself in another world. 

Friend. 

But are you certain that these praises will all go 
to the right address ? Are you equally certain of the 
punctuality of your heirs ? 



DIALOGUE. 2-1 

AXJTHOR. 

I have no reason to think that they will neglect a 
duty in consideration of which I will excuse them 
from so many others. 

Friend. 

Will or can they have for your production the 
paternal love, and the author's care, without which 
a work is always given to the public with an 
awkward air ? 

Author. 

My manuscript wiU be corrected, neady copied, 
quite prepared for the press ; the printing is all that 
will have to be done. 

Friend. 

And the chapter of accidents ! Alas ! similar un- 
lucky circumstances have occasioned the loss of so 
many celebrated works, like that of the famous 
Lecat on the state of the soul during sleep, the 
labour of his whole life. 

Author. 

That was, no doubt, a great loss ; but I am very 
far from aspiring to such regrets. 

Friend. 

Believe me, your heirs will have enough to do to 
arrange with the Church, with law, medicine, and 



2 2 DIALOGUE. 

themselves, so that the time, if not the will, must fail 
them to devote themselves to the various cares which 
precede, accompany, and follow the issue of a work, 
however little the size may be. 

Author. 
But the title, the subject, the good-natured friends ? 

Friend. 

The very word "gastronomy" makes every one 
prick up his ears. The subject is fashionable, and 
good-natured friends are as much gourmands as any 
one else. This should quiet you. Besides, do you 
not know that the gravest people have sometimes 
written light works : the President Montesquieu, for 
example ? * 

Author. 

Yes, that is quite true. He has written the Temple 
of Gnidus, and it may be maintained that there is 
more real usefulness in thinking of what is at the same 
time a necessity, a pleasure, and an everyday occupa- 
tion, than in saying that there were, more than two 
thousand years ago, a couple of dirty brats, one of 

* M. de Montucla, known by a very good History of mathematics, 
wrote a Dictionary of gastronomic geography ; he showed me some parts 
of it whilst I was at Versailles. It is said that M. Berriai-Saint>Prix, 
who was a good ooosolting lawyer, has written a novel in many 
volumes. 



DIALOGUE. 23 

whom ran through the bushes of Greece after the 
other, who had no desire to run away. 

Friend. 
You surrender, then ? 

Author. 

I ? not at all ; I have merely betrayed myself as 
an author. And this reminds me of a scene in 
English comedy that was very amusing ; it is, I 
think, in a play which is called the "Natural 
Daughter." You shall judge for yourself.* 

It is about the Quakers, and you know that those 
who are attached to this sect thee and thou the whole 
world, dress simply, never go to war, take no oaths, 
act deliberately, and, above all, never get in a rage. 

The hero of the piece is a young and handsome 
Quaker, who appears on the stage in a brown coat, 
broad-brimmed hat, and combed-down hair. This 
does not prevent him from falling in love. 

A fool, who is his rival, emboldened by his out- 
ward appearance, and his supposed hidden feelings, 
ridicules and annoys him so much, that the young 
man, warming up little by little, falls into a rage, and 
thrashes with a master-hand the impertinent person 

* The reader must have peroeiTed that my friend lets himself be 
" tfaou'd" {tuioyer) without his doing the saune to me. This is because 
iny age is to his like that of a father to a son, and that tUthough he 
has become a man of importance in everj respect, he would griere if 
I spoke to him in another way. 






.r* *^r *-:e 

Th.3 U no ior^^er posi.'-/^ You ha%c alrcadj. 
as you arirr^.t, be'j'a^'wi yo'-j-vtll I have capr.:re-d 
you, and I ta)ce you to rr.y boolci^ll^r. I ik-.U tel! 
vou that there is more than or.c person *ho has 
noued abroad your secret, 

Althor. 

Do not run the ri^k, for in my book I'll speak of 
you, and who knows what I may say ? 

Friend. 

What can you say ? Do not imagine that you 
can frighten me. 

Author. 

I shall n^^jt say that our common locality * is 
pleased with having given you birth, that at twenty- 

* BcDcy, th« capital of Buj^ey, a chaiming country, where we find 
lofty nnantairH, htiU, rivert, hmpul brook «, caicades cataractt, abyucs, 
a real Rnjlith garden <A a bun'! red w^uare league*, where before the 
RerolutioQ th« ti*n itat were able to put a veto on the acts of the two 
oiiMT ordcr» by tb« coiutitutioo of the country. 



•5 

four yeais yoo already poblished an dcmentary vork 
whkfa since then has b eco me dasskal ; that your 
deserved repatatkn already inspires confidcDce in 
yon; that your oatward appearance soothes your 
patients. Your skiH revives invalids ; yoor dexterity 
snrpises them ; year sensilNlity consoles them. 
Every one knows this ; but I will re^-eal to all Paris 
—4^ising) — to all ¥Txaot—{bridIxHg uf) — to the 
entire nnivefse, the only ^olt I know in yon. 

Friend {in a serums iom). 
And what is that fimlt, if yon please ? 

Author. 

An habitual £ialt of which aU my exhortations 
have not been able to connect yoo. 

Friend {fri^Uened). 
Speak out ; it is too much to keep me in torture. 

Author. 
You eat too &st* 

{Here the friend takes his katj and goes out 
smiling^ thinking that he has made a con- 
vert^ 

* HistoricaL 



D 




BIOGRAPHY. 

fJHE doctor whom I have introduced into 
the dialogue which precedes is not 
a fantastic being, as the Chloris of 
former days, but a handsome doctor 
quite alive. Those who know me will devine that [ 
speak of Dr Richerand. 

Thinking of him, 1 was led back to those who were 
before his time ; and [ saw with pride that my arron- 
dissemtnt of Belley, in the department of the Ain, my 
native place, had for a long time the honour of giving 
to the world doctors of the highest distinction, and 1 
could not resist the inducement of erecting a modest 
monument to them in a short notice. 

In the days of the Regency, Drs. Genin and 
Civoct were practitioners of the first class, and 
brought back to their country a wealth honourably 



28 BIOGRAPHY. 

acquired. The first was entirely Hippocratic, and 
proceeded in form ; the second, amongst whose 
patients were many fair ladies, was more gentle 
and more accommodating : res novas moliititem^ as 
Tacitus expresses it. 

Towards 1750, Dr. La Chapelle distinguished him- 
self in the perilous career of a military surgeon. We 
have several good works from his pen, and we owe 
to him the treatment of inflammation on the chest 
by fresh butter, a method which cures like a spell when 
it is used in the first thirty-six hours of the attack. 

Towards 1760, Dr. Dubois obtained the greatest 
success in the treatment of low spirits, which then 
was a fashionable malady, and quite as common as 
the ailments of the nerves which have replaced it. 
The popularity which he obtained was so much the 
more remarkable, as he was far from being a 
handsome man. 

Unhappily he arrived too early at an independent 
fortune, and fell into a career of laziness, contenting 
himself with being a good story-teller and an amiable 
companion. He was of a robust constitution, and 
lived more than eighty-eight years, in spite of dinners, 
or perhaps thanks to the dinners of the old and the 
new regime* 

* I smiled when I wrote this Article, for it reminded roe of a great 
academician, whose eulogy had to be delivered by Fontenelle. The de- 
funct only knew how to play at every game, and, nevertheless, the per- 
petual secretary had the talent of devising a very fair panegyric of the 
usual length. (See further, the Meditation on the pleasures of the table, 
where the doctor is in active employment.) 



BIOGRAPHY. 29 

At the end of the reign of Louis XV., Dr. Coste, 
a native of Chitillon, came to Paris. He was bearer 
of a letter of Voltaire for the Duke of Choiseul, 
whose goodwill he had the good fortune to gain 
during his first visit 

Protected by this nobleman and by the Duchess 
of Grammont, his sister, young Coste made rapid 
progress ; and after a few years Paris commenced to 
count him among the most hopeftil doctors. 

The same protection which had brought him out 
tore him away from this tranquil and fruitful career 
to place him at the head of the medical department 
of the army that France sent to America to help the 
United States, which were fighting for their indepen- 
dence. After having fulfilled his mission, Dr. Coste 
returned to France, passed the unforttmate period of 
1793 almost without being noticed, and was elected 
Mayor of Versailles, where even now the memory of 
his active, mild, and fatherly government is still 
preserved. 

Soon the Directory recalled him to the administra- 
tion of military medicine. Bonaparte named him one 
of the three general inspectors of the Army Medical 
Service, and the doctor was constantly the friend, the 
protector, and the father of those young men who 
were destined to this career. Finally, he was named 
doctor of the Royal Hospital of the Invalides, and 
discharged those duties until his death. 

Such long services could not remain without re- 
compense by the Government of the Bourbons ; and 



3© BIOGRAPHY. 

Louis XVIII. did an act of justice in conferring on 
Dr. Coste the Order of St Michael. 

Dr. Coste died some years ago, leaving a vene- 
rated memory, a fortune entirely of a philosophical 
extent, and an only daughter, the wife of M. Delalot, 
who has distinguished himself in the Chamber of 
Deputies by his lively and deep eloquence, which did 
not prevent his failure. 

One day when we dined with M. Favre, the 
clergyman at St Laurent, our townsman. Dr. Coste 
told me of the serious quarrel he had had that 
very day with the Comtc de Cessac, then minister 
and director of the War Department, on the subject 
of an economy that the latter wished to propose in 
order to please Napoleon. This economy consisted 
in subtracting from the sick soldiers half of their 
portion of toast and water, and washing the lint 
which was taken away from their wounds to use it a 
second or a third time. 

The doctor protested with violence against a plan 
that he considered abominable, and he was so full of 
his subject that he fell into a rage, as if the object of 
his wrath had been still present 

1 do not know if the Count was really converted, 
and if he left his plan in his portfolio, but what is 
certain is, that the sick soldiers were ever after per- 
mitted to drink as much as they liked, and that all 
lint that had been used was thrown away. 

Towards 1780, Dr. Bordier, bom in the environs 
of Amb^rieux, came to practise medicine in Paris. 



BIOGRAPHY. 31 

His practice was gentle, his system expectant, and 
his diagnosis certain. 

He was named Professor in the Faculty of Medi- 
cine. His style was simple, but his lessons were 
fatherly and fruitfuL Honours crowded on him un- 
sought, and he was named physician to the Empress 
Marie-Louise. But he did not enjoy this place very 
long ; the empire fell to pieces, and the doctor him- 
self was carried away by a disease of the leg, against 
which he had fought all his life. 

Dr. Bordier was of a tranquil humour, a benevolent 
character, and thoroughly trustworthy. 

Towards the end of the eighteenth century Dr. 
Bichat appeared ; Bichat, of whom all the writings 
bear the impress of genius, who employed his life in 
works made to advance science, who united with the 
patience of sluggish minds outbursts of ienthusiasm, 
and who, dying in his thirtieth year, merited that 
public honours should be given to his memory. 

Later, there came Dr. Mont^gre, who introduced 
into clinics a philosophical spirit He edited with 
skill the " Journal of Health," and died at the age of 
forty in the West Indies, where he had gone in 
order to complete the treatises which he had pro- 
jected on the yellow fever and the black vomit 

At the present time (1825) Dr. Richerand stands 
on the highest ladder of operative medicine, and his 
"Elements of Physiology" have been translated in 
all languages. Named when young a Professor of 
the Faculty of Paris, he is invested with the most 



33 BIOGRAPHY. 

august confidence. No one has a word more con- 
soling, a hand more kind, or a sharper knife. 

Dr. Rdcamier, a professor in the same faculty, sits 
at the side of his compatriot 

As useful as lucky a practitioner, he preserves 
notes of all the maladies of his patients, and is 
able at each new invasion to exhibit a table of all 
the variations of their sanitary state. Dr. R^camier 
does not consider any case hopeless, and unlooked-for 
success has often crowned his efforts. 

The present being thus certain, the future prepares 
itself, inasmuch as under the wings of these powerful 
professors young men of the same country are being 
trained, who promise to imitate such honourable 
examples. 

Now Drs. Janin and Manjot drive along Paris. 
Dr. Manjot (Rue du Bac, No. 39) devotes himself 
principally to maladies of children. His ideas are 
happy, and he ought soon to communicate them to 
the public. 

I hope that every well brought up reader will 
pardon this digression of an old man who resides 
thirty-five years in Paris, but who has not forgotten 
either his country or his compatriots. It costs me 
already much to pass sub sileniio so many doctors 
whose remembrance subsists venerated in their native 
country, and who, although they have not had the 
advantage of shining on a grand stage, are not less 
than the above gifted with science and merit 




PREFACE. 



iJO offer to the public Ike work that I leave 
Is kindness, is not a great labour /or 
I have merely placed in order male- 
* rials I had collected long ago. This is 
an amusing occupation, which I reserved for my 

Considering the pleasures of the table from every 
point of view, I soon saw that something better than a 
cookery-book might have been made out of the subject, 
and that a great deal might be said about such essential 
and constant functions thai have a direct influence on 
health, happiness, and even on business affairs. 

IVhen once this dominant idea was seised by me, 
all the rest ran ncUurallys I looked around me, toot 
notes, and often, in the middle of the most sumptuous 
festivals, I should have felt bored but for the pleasure 
of looking at the guests. 



PREFACE. 35 

my irroration, and I was thoroughly glad when I 
observed that the wettest were also the most happy. 

Thinking now and then of the grave lucubrations 
to which the extent of my subject has led me, I have 
had a sincere fear of being tiresome. For I also have 
sometimes yawned over the writings of others. 

I have done all that is in my power to avoid this 
reproach; I have only skimmed the various subjects 
that might lend themselves to it; I have filled my book 
voith anecdotes, of which some are personal to myself; 
I have left on one side a great number of facts both 
extrctordinary and singular, that a wholesome criticism 
ought to have rejected; I have roused attention by 
making plain and popular a certain knowledge which 
the learned appear to have reserved for themselves. 
If in spite of all my efforts, I have not presented to 
my readers a science easy of digestion, I shall be just 
us tranquil, very certain that the majority will absolve 
nu on account of my intention. 

It may be said that I let my pen run on now and 
then too fast, and that when I narrate an anecdote, I 
rather fall into garrulity. Is it my fault that I am 
an old man f Is it my fault that, like Ulysses, I have 
seen the manners and towns of many nations f Am 
I^ then, worthy of blame for having given a little of 
my biography f 

Finally, the reader should consider that I spare him 
my political Memoirs, which deserve to be read as well 
as many others, inasmuch as for thirty -six years past 
I have been in the best places to see men and events pass. 



36 PREFACE. 

Above ally care should be taken not to assign me a 
place among compilers; if I had been reduced to thiSy 
my pen might have been quiet, and I should not have 
lived the less happy for it. I say, like Juvenal — 

Semper ego auditor tantum ! nunquam ne reponam 1 

and those who are acquainted with the subject will 
easily see thaty equally accustomed to the turmoil of 
society as to the- silence of the study, I have done well 
in making the most of both these positions. 

Finally, I have done much for my own satisfaction. 
I have given the names of several of my friends, who 
did not expect it; I have recalled some pleasing 
recollections ; I have settled others that might have 
escaped me, and as we say in familiar style, I took my 
coffee. Perhaps one solitary reader^ in the category 
of the wearied, may call outy " / did not want to know 
if , . " " What is he thinking about when he says 
that . . ." ^c, &*c. But I am certain that all the 
others will tell him to be silent, and that an imposing 
majority will receive with pleasure such effusions of 
a praiseworthy sentiment. It only remains for me to 
say a word about my style, which, as Buffon says, " is 
all the manP 

Let none think that I come to ask a favour which is 
never granted to those who want it, I want merely 
to make a simple explanation, I ought to write to 
perfection; as Volt aire y Jean Jacques Rousseau, 
F^nelon, Buffon, and later. Cochin and d*Aguesseau, 
have been my favourite authors, I know them by 



PREFACE. 37 

heart. But perhaps the gods have ordained it other- 
ivisej and if sOy this is the cause of the will of the 
gods, I know more or less well five living languages. 
This makes an enormous repertory of words of 
7/arious patterns. 

When I have need of an expression^ and I do not 
find it in the French compartment ^ I take it from the 
next one; and thus the reader has to translate me or 
divine my meaning ; — it is his fate, . 

I could have done otherwise^ but I am prevented by 
a spirit of system^ to which I hold in an invincible 
manner, 

I am perfectly convinced that the French language 
which I use is comparatively poor. What is to be 
done in this case f To borrow or steal, I do both^ 
inasmuch as these borrowings are not subject to resti- 
tution, and as the robbery of words is not punishable 
by the penal code. 

An idea of my boldness fnay be imagined^ when it is 
known that I call yolanteyfrom the Spanish^ any man 
I have ordered to go on an errand^ and that I had 
determined to Frenchify the English word to sip, 
Tvhich signifies to drink in small portions. But I 
exhumed the French word siroter, to which nearly the 
same meaning is given, 

I know that stem critics will invoke Bossuety 
Fdnelon^ Racine^ Boileauy Pascalj and other authors 
of the century of Louis XIV,j I imagine that I 
hear them make a frightful disturbance. 

To which I reply calmly that lam far from denying 



38 PREFACE. 

the merit of these authors, either expressed or implied; 
but what then / . . . Nothing^ except thaty if they suc- 
ceeded in their performance on an inferior instru- 
ment^ they would have played much better on a 
superior one. We may conceive that Tartini would 
have played still better on the violin if his bow had 
equalled that of Baillot in length, 

I do belong to the neologists, and even to the 
romanticists ; the latter find out many hidden trea- 
sures; the former are like sailors who go about to 
find afar the provender they want. 

The northern peoples^ and especially the English^ 
have over us in this respect an enormous advantage. 
Genius is there never hampered by expressions ; it 
either creates or borrows them. It is thus that in all 
subjects which admit depth and energy^ our translators 
only produce pale and colourless copies. 

Once I heard at the Institute an amusing discourse 
on the danger of neology , and on the necessity of keep- 
ing our language as it was when the authors of the 
golden age fixed its limits. 

As a chemist^ I passed this argument through the 
retort; but there only remained, " We have done so 
well that there is no way of doing better or otherwise'^ 

Now, I have lived long enough to know thcU each 
generation says the same things and that the following 
generation always laughs at it. 

Besides, we must change words when manners and 
ideas endure continual modifcations. If we do things 
like the ancients, we do not do them in the same way; 



PREFACE. 39 

and there are entire pa^es in some French books that 
are intranslatable either into Latin or Greek, 

Each language has had its birth, its apogee, and its 
decline; and none of those which have been famous, 
from the time of Sesostris to that of Philip Augustus, 
exists except in monuments. The French language 
vnll have the same destiny, and in the year 2825, if 
anybody reads me at all, he will only read me with 
the aid of a dictionary, 

I once had on this subject a discussion of a furious 
character with the pleasant M, Andrieux, of the 
French Academy, 

I made my attack in good order ; I charged vigor- 
ously, and I would have succeeded if he had not made 
a prompt retreat, to which I interposed no obstacle, as I 
remembered that, happily for himself, he wcu entrusted 
with a letter in the new Dictionary, 

I shall conclude by an important observation, which 
I have kept until the last. 

When I write " I " or " me *' in the singular, I am 
merely gossiping with the reader, who may examine^ 
discuss, doubt, and even laugh; but when I am 
equipped with the redoubtable " we " / am a professor, 
and every one must give in, 

"I am Sir Oracle, 
And when I ope my lips let no dog bark." 

Shakespeare, Merchant of Venice, 

Act i. Sc. I. 




MEDITATION 

ON THE SENSES. 



The senses are organs by which n 
mth external objects. 

Number of the Senses. 

I. — We must count at least six. 

Sight, which embraces space, and instructs us, by 
the means of light, of tbe existence and the colours 
of the bodies around us. 

Hearing, which receives through the medium of the 
air the motion caused by vibrating or sonorous bodies. 

Smell, by means of which we become aware of the 
odours possessed by substances. 



42 MEDITATION I. 

Tcistfy by which we appreciate everj'thing that has 
a flavour, or is eatable. 

Touchy of which the object is the consistence and 
the surface of bodies. 

Finally, genesic or physical love^ which attracts 
one sex towards the other, and of which the object 
is the reproduction of the species. 

It is surprising that, almost to the days of BufTon, 
such an important sense should have been unknown, 
and should have remained confounded or rather an- 
nexed to touch. 

Nevertheless, the sensation of which it is the seat 
has nothing in common with that of feeling ; it re- 
sides in an apparatus as complete as the mouth or 
the eyes ; and although it is singular that each sex 
has everything needful to experience the sensation, 
it is nevertheless necessary that the two should be 
in union to attain the object that Nature has pro- 
posed. And if taste^ which has for its object the 
preservation of the individual, is undoubtedly a sense, 
the same title must also be given to the organs 
destined for the preservation of the species. 

We must therefore give to the genesic sense the 
place in the senses which cannot be refused to it, and 
we may leave to posterity the task of assigning its 
particular rank. 

Action of the Senses. 

2. — If we were permitted, even in imagination, to 
refer to the first moments of the existence of the 



ON THE SENSES. 43 

human genus, it is also pennissible to believe that the 
first sensations were direct ; that is to say, that each 
one saw dimly, heard vaguely, smelt indiscriminately, 
ate without taste, and enjoyed himself coarsely. 

But the soul being the centre of all these sen- 
sations, the special attribute of the human species 
and the ever active cause of perfectibility, they have 
been reflected in this soul, compared, and judged, 
and very soon all the senses have been brought to 
the aid of each other, for the utility and the hap- 
piness of the "percipient ego^^ or, what is the same 
thing, of the individual 

Thus, touch rectifies the errors of vision ; sound, 
by means of articulate speech, becomes the inter- 
preter of every sentiment; taste is aided by sight 
and smell ; hearing compares sounds, appreciates 
distances ; and the genesic sense has invaded the 
organs of all the other senses. 

The torrent of centuries rolling over the human 
race has continually brought new perfections, the 
cause of which, always active, though almost in- 
visible, is found in the demands made by our senses, 
which always, and in turn, require to be agreeably 
occupied. 

Thus sight has given birth to painting, to sculp- 
ture, and to spectacles of every sort ; 

Sound, to melody, harmony, dancing, and music, 
with all its branches and its means of execution ; 

Smell, to the search for, the culture, and the use 
of perfumes ; 



44 MEDITATION I. 

Taste, to the production, the selection, and the 
preparation of all that can serve as food ; 

Touch, to all the arts, all the capacities, and all 
the industries; 

The genesic sense, to all that can prepare or 
render beautiful the union of the sexes, and, since 
Francis I., to romantic love, coquetry, and fashion ; 
above all to coquetry, which, bom in France, has 
only a name in French, and of which the ilite of 
nations come every day to take lessons in the capital 
of the universe. 

Strange as this proposition may appear, it is never- 
theless easily proved, for in no language used by the 
ancients can we express ourselves clearly about these 
three great motives of society as it exists at present 

I wrote on this subject a dialogue that might not 
have been without attractions, but I suppressed it, to 
leave to my readers the pleasure of making it each 
in his own manner. Thus they can employ their 
mind, and even their learning, during a whole 
evening. 

We have said already that the genesic sense has 
invaded the organs of all the other senses ; it has 
not less powerfully influenced every science, and, 
regarding it closely, we may see that everything 
therein most delicate and ingenious is due to the 
desire, the hope, or the gratitude which is due to 
the union of the sexes. 

The genealog)' of sciences, even the most abstract, 
is such, that they are merely the immediate result of 



ON THE SENSES. 45 

the continuous efforts that we make to gratify our 
senses. 

Improvement of the Senses, 

3. — These senses, our favourites, are nevertheless 
far from being perfect, and I shall not stop to prove 
this. I shall merely observe that sight, an ethereal 
sense, and touch, which is at the other end of the 
scale, have acquired, in time, a very remarkable addi- 
tional power. 

By the means of spectacles^ the eye escapes, so to 
say, from the senile obliteration which oppresses the 
majority of other organs. 

The telescope has discovered stars formerly un- 
known and inaccessible to all means of measurement ; 
it has penetrated distances so great that luminous 
and necessarily inmiense bodies present themselves 
to lis only as nebulous and almost imperceptible 
spots. 

The microscope has made us acquainted with the 
interior configuration of bodies ; it has shown us 
vegetation and plants of which hitherto we scarcely 
suspected the existence. Finally, we have seen 
animals a hundred thousand times smaller than the 
smallest which are perceived by the naked eye ; these 
little animals nevertheless move, feed, and multiply, 
which leads us to suppose that they have organs so 
minute that the imagination cannot conceive it. 

On the other side, mechanics have multiplied our 
power ; man has executed all that he could imagine, 



46 MEDITATION I. 

and has removed burdens which nature itself had 
made inaccessible to his weakness. 

With the aid of implements and of th^ lever^ man 
has subjugated all nature ; he has made it submit to 
his pleasure, his wants, and his caprices. He has 
convulsed the surface of the globe, and a feeble biped 
has become the king of the creation. 

Sight and touch, thus increased in their capacity, 
might have belonged to some species much superior 
to man, or rather the human species would have been 
quite something else, if all the senses had been im- 
proved in this manner. We must remark, nevertheless, 
that though touch has acquired a great development 
as a muscular power, civilisation has almost done 
nothing for it as a sensitive organ ; but we must not 
despair, remembering that the human species is still 
very young, and that it is only after a long series of 
centiuies that the senses can enlarge their domain. 

For example, it is only for about four centuries 
that harmony has been discovered, an altogether 
celestial science, which is to sound exactly what 
painting is to colour.* 

Certainly, the ancients knew how to sing, accom- 

* We know that people have maintained the contrary, but this idea 
is a worthless one. If the ancients had been acquainted with harmony, 
their writings would have preserved to us some precise notion on this 
matter, instead of a few obscure phrases, which may mean anything. 
Besides, we can follow the birth and the progress of harmony in the 
monuments left to us. We are indebted for it to the Arabs, who gave 
us the organ, which, producing at the same time several continuous 
sounds, evoked the firM idea of harmony. 



ON THE SENSES. 47 

panied by instruments in unison ; but they limited 
their knowledge to this ; they knew neither to decom- 
pose sounds, nor to appreciate their relations. 

It was only in the fifteenth century that time was 
reduced to system, accords made to agree, and that 
it was used to sustain the voice, and to reinforce the 
expression of ideas. 

That discovery, made so late and nevertheless so 
natural, has doubled the sense of hearing ; it shows 
that it has two faculties in some sort independent of 
each other, of which one receives the sounds, and 
the other marks the resonance. 

Some German doctors say that persons sensible 
of harmony have one sense more than others. 

As for those to whom music is but a confused mass 
of sounds, we may remark that nearly every one of 
them sings in discord. And we must believe either 
that amongst them the auditory apparatus is made in 
such a manner as only to receive short vibrations 
without undulation, or rather, that the two ears not 
being of the same diapason, the difference in length 
and sensibility of their constituent parts makes them 
only transmit to the brain an obscure and undefined 
sensation, like two instruments which play neither in 
the same key nor in the same time, and do not produce 
any continuous melody. 

The last centuries that have passed away have 
also given to the sphere of taste important exten- 
sions ; the discovery of sugar and its diverse prepara- 
tions, alcoholic liquors, ice, vanilla, tea and coffee, 



48 MEDITATION L 

have given us flavours whereof the whole world was 
previously ignorant. 

Who knows if touch will not have some day its 
ttun, and if some happy accident will not open to us 
in this quarter some source of new enjoyments ? This 
is the more probable, as tactile sensibility exists over 
all the body, and may consequently be excited everj'- 

where. 

Power of the Taste, 

4. — We have seen that physical love has taken 
possession of all the sciences ; it acts in this case with 
that tyranny that always characterises it 

Taste, that more prudent, more measured faculty, 
though not less active ; taste, we say, has accom- 
plished the same aim with a slowness which ensures 
its durable success. 

Elsewhere we shall consider its progress. We 
may, however, already observe, that any person who 
has been present at a sumptuous repast, in a hall 
decorated with mirrors, paintings, sculpture, flowers, 
odoriferous with perfumes, adorned with pretty 
women, filled with the sounds of a delicious har- 
mony, will not need a great mental eflbrt to convince 
himself that all sciences have been laid under con- 
tribution to enhance and enshrine becomingly the 
pleasures of taste. 

Object of the Action of the Senses, 
5. — Let us now glance in a general manner at the 
system of our senses that we have taken in their 



ON THE SENSES. 49 

entirety, and we shall see that the Author of Creation 
had two objects, of which one is the consequence 
of the other; the preservation of the individual to 
assure the duration of the species. Such is the 
destiny of man, considered as a sensitive being ; and 
it is towards this double object that all his actions are 
directed. 

The eye perceives external objects, reveals the 
marvels by which man is environed, and teaches him 
that he is a portion of a great whole. 

The sense of hearing receives sounds not merely 
as agreeable sensations, but also as warnings of the 
movement of bodies likely to endanger us. 

The sense of touch watches to give us, by the 
means of pain, information of any immediate hurt. 

The hand, as a faithfid servant, has not only pre- 
pared its defence, assured its steps, but has seized 
in preference those objects that instinct makes him 
think fit to repair the losses caused by the maintenance 
of life. 

Smell explores them, as deleterious substances 
have almost always an unpleasant odour. 

Finally, taste decides ; the teeth are put in action, 
the tongue is united to the palate to taste, and soon 
the stomach commences assimilation. 

In this state an unknown languor is felt, objects 
seem less vivid, the body bends, the eyes are closed, 
everything disappears, and the senses are in an abso- 
lute repose. 

At his waking, man sees that nothing has changed 



50 MEDITATION I. 

around him. Nevertheless, a secret fire fennents in 
his bosom, and a new organ is developed. He feels 
that his existence must be shared with some one. 

This active, unquiet, and imperious sentiment is 
common to both sexes. It attracts them, unites 
them, and when the germ of a new existence is 
fecundated, each individual may sleep in peace. 
They have fulfilled the most holy of their duties in 
assuring the duration of the species.* 

Such are the general and philosophical principles 
I wish to place before my readers to bring them 
naturally to the more special examination of the oi^on 
of taste. 





MEDITATION II. 

OF TASTE. 



Definition of TasU. 

6. — Taste is the one of our senses which places 
us in relation with sapid bodies by means of the 
sensation they produce in the organ destined to 
appreciate ihem. 

Taste, which has for its excitants appetite, hunger, 
and thirst, is the base of many operations whereof 
the result is that the individual grows, develops, 
preserves himself, and repairs the losses caused by 
vital evaporations. 

Organised bodies are not all nourished in the same 
manner. The Author of Creation, equally varied in 



52 MEDITATION II. 

His methods as certain in His effects, has assigned 
them various modes of preservation. 

Vegetables, the lowest in the scale of living beings, 
are nourished by roots which, implanted into the 
native soil, select by the action of a peculiar mechan- 
ism different substances which have the property of 
serving for their growth and their preservation. 

Going a little higher in the scale, we find bodies 
gifted with animal life, but deprived of locomotion. 
They are produced in a medium that favours their 
existence, and special organs extract all that is neces- 
sary to sustain the portion of life and of duration 
which has been given to them. They do not seek 
food, but, on the contrary, it comes to seek them. 

Another mode has been fixed for the pireservation 
of animals which move everywhere in the universe, 
and of which man is undoubtedly the most perfect. A 
particular instinct warns him when to eat ; he seeks, 
he seizes the objects which he imagines possess the 
property of satisfying his wants ; he eats, is restored, 
and thus during his life goes through the career 
assigned to him. 

Taste itself may be considered under three aspects. 
In physical man it is the mechanism by means of 
which he appreciates savours. Considered in moral 
man, it is the sensation which any organ impressed 
by a savoury body excites in the common centre. 

Finally, considered under its material aspect, taste 
is the property which a body possesses to impress an 
organ and to originate sensation. 



OF TASTE. 53 

Taste appears to have two principal uses — 

I "*, It invites us, by pleasure, to repair the continual 
losses which we suffer by the action of life. 

2^ It aids us to select, among the various sub- 
stances which Nature presents to us, those which are 
alimentary. 

In this choice, we shall see hereafter that taste is 
powerfully aided by the sense of smell ; as a general 
principle, it may be laid down that nutritive sub- 
stances are repulsive neither to smell nor to taste. 

Mechanism of Taste. 

7. — It is not easy to determine exactly wherein 
the faculty of taste consists. It is more complicated 
than it appears. Certainly the tongue plays a great 
part in the mechanism of taste, for, considering it as 
gifted with rather strong muscular power, it enfolds, 
turns, presses, and swallows the food. 

Further, by means of the more or less numerous 
papilke with which it is covered, it is impregnated 
with sapid and soluble particles from those bodies 
with which it comes in contact ; but all this is not 
sufficient, and many other adjacent parts concur to 
complete the sensation, namely, the cheeks, the palate, 
and, above all, the nasal fossae, whereon physiolo- 
gists have perhaps not sufficiently insisted. 

The cheeks, as well as the maxillary and sublingual 
glands, form the saliva, equally necessary for mastica- 
tion and the formation of the nourishing mass. They, 
as well as the palate, are gifted with a portion of the 



54 MEDITATION II. 

appreciative faculties ; I do not know if even in 
certain cases the gums do not participate a little in 
it ; and without the odoration which is preserved in 
the back part of the mouth, the sensation of taste 
would be obtuse and wholly imperfect. 

The persons who have no tongue, or whose tongue 
has been cut out, possess the sensation of taste very 
fairly. Many books speak of the first case ; the 
second has been sufficiently explained to me by a 
wretched man whose tongue the Algerians had cut out 
for having, with some of his comrades in captivity, 
formed a project of escaping and running away. 

This man, whom I met at Amsterdam, where he 
gained his living by running errands, had some 
education, and It was easy to communicate with 
him in writing. 

After having observed that all the fore part of 
the tongue down to the frsenulum had been cut away, 
I asked him if he still recognised any taste in what 
he ate, and if the sensation of taste had survived the 
cruel operation which he had undergone. 

He answered, that what was most troublesome to 
him was the act of swallowing, which was only done 
with great difficulty ; that he had preserved taste 
pretty fairly ; that he appreciated, like others, what 
was little sapid or agreeable, but that anything which 
was very sour or bitter caused him intolerable pain. 

He also told me that cutting away the tongue was 
common in some African kingdoms ; that it was applied 
especially to those who were thought to have been 



OF TASTE. 55 

chiefs of a plot, and that special instruments were used 
for this operation. I wanted him to describe them, 
but he exhibited on this topic such a sorrowful dis- 
inclination that I did not insist. 

I reflected on what he had said, and, carrying my 
thoughts back to those centuries of ignorance, when 
the tongues of blasphemers were pierced and cut, I 
came to the conclusion that these punishments were 
of African origin, and imported at the return of the 
Crusaders. 

We have seen already that the sensation of taste 
resides principally in the papillae of the tongue. But 
anatomy tells us that every tongue has not the same 
number of them, and that in some tongues there are 
three times as many papillae as in others. This cir- 
cumstance will explain why of two guests sitting at 
the same table one should be deliciously affected, 
whereas the other seems to eat from constraint ; it 
is because the latter has a tongue imperfectly pro- 
vided with papillae, and that the empire of taste has 
also its blind and its deaf people. 

Sensation of Taste, 

8. — Five or six different opinions have been broached 
as to the manner in which the sensation of taste 
operates ; I have also mine, and it is as follows : — 

The sensation of taste is a chemical operation, 
made in the humid way, as we called it formerly; 
that is to say, that it is necessary for the sapid mole- 



56 MEDITATION II. 

cules to be dissolved by some fluid to be finally 
absorbed by the nervous ganglia, papillse, or 
suckers which cover the interior of the organ of 
taste. 

This system, new or not, is based on physical 
proofis that are almost palpable. 

Pure water does not cause a sensation of taste, 
because it does not contain any sapid particle. Dis- 
solve in it a grain of salt, or some drops of vinegar, 
the sensation will take place. 

Other drinks, on the contrar>', impress us, because 
they are nothing else but liquids more or less charged 
with appreciable particles. 

The mouth would be uselessly filled with the 
divided particles of an insoluble body, for the tongue 
would experience a sensation of touch alone, and not 
of taste. 

As to solid and tasty bodies, it is necessary that 
the teeth should divide them, that they should be 
impregnated with the saliva and other tasting fluids, 
and that the tongue should press them against the 
palate to express a juice, which, then sufficiently 
charged with sapidity, is appreciated by the gustator>' 
papillae, which deliver to the substance thus triturated 
the passport it requires to be admitted into the 
stomach. 

This system, which will yet receive further develop- 
ments, answers without effort the principal questions 
which may present themselves. 

For if we ask what is understood by a sapid body. 



OF TASTE. 57 

we receive the reply that it is any soluble body fit to 
be absorbed by the organ of taste; 

And if we ask how a sapid body acts, the answer 
is, that it acts every time that it is found in a state of 
solution so that it can penetrate in the cavities charged 
with receiving and transmitting the sensation. 

In a word, nothing is sapid but that which is 
already dissolved or easily soluble. 

Savours, 

9. — The number of savours is infinite, as each 
soluble body has a special savour, which does not 
entirely resemble that of any other. 

Savours are also modified by their simple, double, 
or multiple aggregation ; so that it is impossible to 
classify them, from the most pleasant to the most dis- 
agpreeable, from the strawberry to the colocynth. Thus 
every one who has yet tried to do this has almost 
failed. 

This result ought not to amaze us, for, it being 
granted that endless series of simple savours exist, 
which may be modified by their reciprocal union, 
in any number and in any quantity, a new language 
would be necessary to explain all these results, 
mountains of folios to describe them, and as yet 
unknown numeric characters to label them. 

Now, as until to-day no circumstance has yet pre- 
sented itself in which any savour could have been 

appreciated with perfect exactness, we have been 

]i 



58 MEDITATION II. 

obliged to be satisfied with a restricted number of 
general epithets, as sweet, sugary, acid, sharp, and 
similar ones, which are expressed in the final analysis 
by the words " agreeable " and " disagreeable," and 
which suffice to make us be understood, and to indi- 
cate more or less the gustatory properties of any sapid 
substance with which we are dealing. 

Those who come after us will know more about it, 
and it is no longer permitted to doubt that chemistry 
will reveal to them the causes or the primitive 
elements of savours. 

Influence of Smell on Taste, 

lo. — The order I have indicated for myself has 
gradually brought me to the moment when I shall 
render to smell the rights that belong to it, and the 
recognition of the important services it renders to us 
in the appreciation of savours ; for, amongst the 
authors whom I have perused, I have not found one 
who appears to have done entire and complete justice 
to it. 

For myself, I am not only persuaded that without 
the participation of smell there is no perfect taste, 
but I am even tempted to believe that smell and taste 
only form one sense, of which the mouth is the 
laboratory and the nose the chimney ; or to speak 
more exactly, that the tongue tastes tactile substances, 
and the nose gases. 

This theory may be rigorously defended. Never- 



OF TASTE. 59 

theless, as I do not pretend to found a sect of my 
own, I only venture to expose it, to indicate to my 
readers a subject of thought, that they may see that 
I have carefully studied the subject I am treating. 
Now, 1 shall continue my demonstration on the sub- 
ject of the importance of smell, if not as a constituent 
part of taste, at least as a necessary adjunct 

All sapid bodies must be necessarily odorous, 
which places them as well in the empire of smell as 
in the empire of taste. 

We eat nothing without smelling it with more or less 
consciousness ; and for unknown foods, the nose acts 
always as a sentinel, and cries, '* Who goes there ?" 

When smell is interrupted, taste is paralysed. 
This is proved by three experiments, which any one 
may make successfully. 

First Experiment, — ^When the nasal mucous mem- 
brane is irritated by a violent cold in the head, taste 
is entirely obliterated. In anything we swallow, there 
is no taste. The tongue nevertheless remains in its 
normal state. 

Second Experiment — If we eat whilst holding tight 
our nose, we are much astonished only to experience 
the sensation of taste in an obsciure and imperfect 
manner. By this means, the most disgusting medi- 
cines are swallowed almost without tasting them. 

Third Experiment. — We see the same effect if, 
at the moment we have swallowed, instead of bring- 
ing back the tongue to its usual place, we keep it 
close to the palate. In this case, the circulation of 



6o MEDITATION 11. 

the air is intercepted, the organs of smell are not 
affected, and taste does not occur. 

These different effects depend upon the same 
cause, the lack of co-operation of the smell, which 
makes the sapid body to be appreciated only on 
account of its juice, and not for the odoriferous gas 
that emanates from it. 



Analysis of the Sensation of Taste. 

1 1 . — These principles being thus laid down, I re- 
gard it as certain that taste gives rise to sensations of 
three different orders, namely : direct sensation, com- 
plete sensation, and reflex sensation. 

Direct sensation is that first perception which 
arises from the immediate operation of the organs of 
the mouth, whilst the appreciable body is yet found 
on the point of the tongue. 

Complete sensation is that which is composed of 
this first perception, and of the impression which 
originates when the food abandons this first position, 
passes into the back part of the mouth, and impresses 
the whole organ with both taste and perfume. 

Finally, reflex sensation is the judgment of the mind 
upon the impressions transmitted to it by the organ. 

Let us apply this theory, and see what takes place 
in a man who eats and drinks. 

He who eats a peach, for example, is at first 
agfreeably struck by the odour which emanates from 
it ; he puts it in his mouth, and feels a sensation of 



OF TASTE. 6 1 

freshness and of sourness which induces him to con- 
tinue ; but it is only at the moment when he swallows 
ity and when the mouthful passes under the nasal 
fossa, that the perfume is revealed to him. This 
completes the sensation which a peach ought to pro- 
duce. Finally, it is only when it has been swallowed 
that, considering what he has just experienced, the 
taster says to himself, " How delicious 1 " 

So also, when we drink, while the wine is in the 
mouth, we are agreeably but not perfectly impressed ; 
it is only at the moment when we have ceased to 
swallow that we may truly taste, appreciate, and dis- 
cover the particular bouquet of each sort ; and a little 
interval of time is necessary before the connoisseur 
can say, ** It is good, middling, or bad. By Jeve ! this 
is Chambertin ! Good Heavens ! this is Suresnes ! " 

We see by this that it is according to principles, 
and on accoimt of a well understood practice, that 
real lovers of wine sip it, because at each mouthful, 
when they stop, they have the sum total of the 
pleasure which they would have experienced if they 
had drunk the whole glass up at one draught. 

The same thing also occurs, but with much more 
energy, whenever the taste is disagreeably affected. 

Look at this sick man, whom the faculty constrains 
to swallow an enormous glass of a black draught, 
such as was drunk in the reign of Louis XIV. 

The smell, a faithful adviser, warns him against the 
repulsive flavour of the deceitful liquid. His eyes 
expand, as if at the approach of danger : disgust is 



62 MEDITATION II. 

on his lips, and already his stomach begins to rise. 
Nevertheless he is expostulated with ; he takes 
courage, gargles his throat uith brandy, holds his 
nose, and drinks • • • 

So long as the detestable beverage 6 lis the mouth 
and lines the organ, the sensation is confused and 
the condition bearable, but at the last mouthful after* 
tastes begin to be developed, nauseous odours arise, 
and the features of the patient express a horror 
and a disgust which is only braved through fear of 
death. 

If the liquid be, on the contrary, merely insipid, 
as, for example, a glass of water, there is no taste 
or after-taste. Nothing is felt, nothing is thought of : 
we merely drink, and that is all 

Succession of the Divers Impressions of Taste, 

1 2. — Taste is not so richly endowed as hearing : 
the latter can appreciate and compare many sounds 
at the same time ; but taste, on the other hand, is 
actually simple — that is to say, that two flavours at 
once are equally inappreciable. 

But it may be doubled and multiplied in succes- 
sion — that is to say, that in one act of deglutition 
we may experience successively a second and even 
a third sensation, each of which gradually becomes 
more weak, and which are described by the words 
after-taste, bouquet, or fragrance. So, when a chord 
is struck, a skilful ear may distinguish one or many 



OF TASTE. 63 

series of consonances, of which the number is as yet 
imperfectly known. 

Those who eat rapidly and without attention do 
not discern secondary impressions. These are only 
the exclusive appanage of a small number of the 
elect, and it is by their means that the various 
substances submitted to their examination may be 
classified. 

These transient diversities vibrate yet for a long 
time in the organ of taste. Without having the least 
idea of it, gastronomes will assume an appropriate 
position, and their judgments are always pronounced 
with outstretched neck, and with the nose upon the 
larboard tack. 

Enjoyments due to the Taste, 

13. — Let us now philosophically examine the 
pleasure or pain occasionally caused by taste. 

We find, first of all, the application of this truth 
unfortunately too general, that man is much better 
organised for sorrow than for pleasure. 

In fact, the injection of sharp, acrid, or bitter sub- 
stances of the strongest character, can make us ex- 
perience sensations extremely painful or sorrowful. It 
is even maintained that hydrocyanic acid only kills so 
promptly because it produces an agony so keen that 
the vital forces cannot endure it without succumbing. 

Agreeable sensations, on the other hand, only run 
through a not very extensive scale, but as there is a 



. , » ^ ".t • > li r* -%■«< <*> 

«.■>» I i»> A'si hard 
, \ ws*» M \ct' : ihirdiv, 

« 

, ,^ \ iiMiv Na>i ijiven to 

. .,»» v.t »>ut.;N vvnsidcred, 

. . .. .» »»«S4 »i c^'v^vmcnts : — 

V '« ..»»Mf • tH the only one 

» , * K*v» i'»\»>*tr\l In fatigue ; 

s ^* ^* ^♦^ ■.♦jMvv a\\ ages, and 

,.. * 4nxnvvi«S 4l least once a 
^ >. .^.x. v^.iJkhic tiuvnvcnience two 

., > s ^^Ml^^MK^l \%uh all our other 
.. s^»..o,c u."» K»4 ihcir absence; 
.K i*.t»«v *x»v»2»>» u mcives arc at the 
V .\.u«.)«v aiKl ntotif dependent on our 

V \x.4.,.»c .a caung \^*e receive a certain 

V ,. 4»cv»aJ sv»iut\ut, which arises from 

,«.i..i. a»u.>»Kv*"» that we repair our losses 

. . '.a *. \Jhivnvc h\ the ftK)d we eat. 

. .V i K uKuv aiupK developed in the chapter 

x»N uvai cc«tK*viaUy of the Pleasures of the 

V, ..» »x .1 tiv»ak ihvU |H>int of view to which our 

I V .s .M^uUk^k ha» biought it 



OF TASTE. 65 

Supremacy of Man. 

1 4. — ^We have been brought up in the pleasant belief 
that amongst all the animals which walk, swim, creep, 
or fly, man is the one whose taste is most perfect 

This belief is liable to be upset 

Dr. Gall, relying on some examinations, says 
that there are many animals who have the organs 
of taste more developed and, therefore, more perfect 
than those of man. This is a very unpleasant doc- 
trine, and smacks of heresy. 

Man, by Divine right king of all creation, and for 
whose benefit the earth has been covered and peopled, 
must necessarily be provided with organs which can 
adequately appreciate all that is sapid amongst his 
subjects. 

The tongue of animals does not exceed the reach 
of their intelligence. In fishes, it is only a movable 
bone ; in birds, it is generally a membranous carti- 
lage ; in quadrupeds, it is often covered with scales or 
asperities, and, moreover, has no circumflex motions. 

The tongue of man, on the other hand, by the deli- 
cacy of its textiure and the various membranes with 
which it is environed and surrounded, sufficiently in- 
dicates the sublimity of the operations for which it is 
destined. 

I have, besides, discovered at least three move- 
ments unknown to animals, and which I name spica- 
HoHy rotation^ and verritiotu The first is when the 

tongue, in a conical shape, comes from between the 

I 



66 MEDITATION tl. 

lips that compress it; the second, when the tongue 
moves circularly in the space comprised between the 
interior of the cheeks and the palate ; the third, when 
the tongue, curving upwards or downwards, gathers 
anything which remains in the semicircular canal 
formed by the lips and the gums. 

Animals are limited in their tastes : some only live 
on vegetables; others only eat flesh; some nourish 
themselves exclusively on grain ; none of them knows 
comptosite flavours. 

Man, on the contrary, is omnivorous. Everything 
which is eatable is subject to his enormous appetite ; 
hence, as a consequence, his gustatory powers must 
be proportionate to the general use he has to make 
of thenu In tact, the power of taste is of a rare 
perfection in man, and we have only to convince 
ourselves of this by seeing it in operation. 

The moment an esculent body is introduced into 
the mouth, it is for ever confiscated, with all its 
gases and juices. 

The lips prevent its going back; the teeth take 
hold of it and crush it ; the saliva imbibes it ; the 
tongue mixes it and turns it over and over ; an 
aspiiatory motion pushes it towards the gullet ; the 
tongue raises it up to let it slide down ; the sense 
of smell perceives it as it goes along, and it is 
thrown into the stomach, to undergo ulterior trans- 
ftwmations. But throughout this operation there is 
not a single particle, a drop, or an atom, which has 
not been submitted to the appreciative power. 



% 



OF TASTE. 67 

It is on account of this perfection \haX gourmandise 
belongs exclusively to man. 

This gourmandise is even contagious, and we im- 
part it readily to the animals which we have appro- 
priated to our use, and which, to a certain extent, 
have become our companions, such as elephants, 
dogs, cats, and even parrots. 

If some animals have the tongue larger, the palate 
more developed, the gullet wider, it is because this 
tongue, acting as a muscle, is destined to move great 
weights ; the palate to press, the gullet to swallow 
larger portions ; but any sound analogy is opposed to 
the inference that their sense of taste is more perfect. 

Besides, since taste can only be judged by the 
nature of the sensation which it carries to a common 
centre, the impression received by the animal cannot 
be compared with that experienced by man ; this latter 
is dearer and more precise, and necessarily supposes 
a superior quality in the organ which transmits it. 

Finally, can we hope for any improvement in a 
faculty susceptible of such a point of perfection that 
the gourmands of Rome distinguished, by taste 
alone, the fish caught between the bridges from that 
which had been caught lower down. Do we not see 
some in our own days that can distinguish by its 
superior flavour the thigh on which the partridge 
leans while sleeping? And have we not plenty of 
gourmets who are able to indicate the latitude under 
which a wine has ripened, as certainly as a pupil 
of Biot or Arago can foretell an eclipse ? 



72 MEDITATION IIL 

enhances the pleasures of love and the intimacy of 
friendship, which disarms hatred, renders business 
more easy, and offers us, in the short journey of 
life, the only recreation which, not being followed by 
fatigue, makes us yet find relief from all others ? 

Without doubt, as long as the food-preparations 
were entrusted to salaried servants, and the secrets 
of the craft remained underground, as long as cooks 
alone kept the matter to themselves, and books of 
directions alone were written, the results of such 
labours were merely the products of an art. 

But finally, perhaps too late, learned men ap- 
proached the subject 

They examined, analysed, and classified alimentary 
substances, and reduced them to their most simple 
constituents. 

They fiathomed the mysteries of assimilation, and, 
tracing inert matter through its metamorphoses, they 
saw how it became endowed with life. 

They studied food in its transitory or permanent 
effects for some days, some months, or even for a 
whole lifetime. 

They have estimated its influence even upon the 
fisiculty of thought, whether the soul is impressed by 
the senses, or whether it feels without the aid of these 
organs, and from all these labours they have deduced 
a lofty theory which embraces the whole man and 
the whole part of the creation which can become 
animalised. 

Whilst aU these things were taking place in the 



ON GASTRONOMY. 73 

Studies of men of science, it was said aloud in 
the drawing-rooms that a science which nourishes 
men is probably worth at least as much as one 
which teaches them to kill each other; poets sang 
the praises of the table, and the books on good 
cheer displayed deeper views and maxims of a more 
general interest. 

Such are the circumstances which have preceded 
the advent of gastronomy. 

Definition of Gastronomy, 

18. — Gastronomy is the rational knowledge of all 
that relates to man as an eater. 

Its object is to watch over the preservation of men, 
by means of the best nourishment possible. 

It arrives thereat by laying down certain principles 
to direct those who look for, furnish, or prepare the 
things which may be converted into food. 

Thus it is gastronomy that sets in motion farmers, 
vinegrowers, fishers, hunters, and the numerous family 
of cooks, whatever may be their title, or under what- 
ever qualification they may disguise their occupation 
of preparing food. 

Gastronomy is connected — 

With natural history, by its classification of alimen- 
tary substances ; 

With physics, by the investigation of their compo- 
sition and of their qualities ; 

With chemistry, by the different analyses and de- 
compositions which it makes them undergo ; 




MEDITATION IV. 

APPETITE. 



Definition of AppitiU. 

25. — Motion and life occasion in ihe living body 
a constant loss of substance, and the human body, 
which is a complicated machine, would soon be unlit 
for use, if Providence did not provide il with a com- 
pensating balance, which marks the very moment 
when its powers arc no longer in equilibrium with its 

This monitor is the appetite. We understand by 
this word the first itnpression of a desire to eat 

Appetite is announced by a little languor in the 
stomach and a slight sensation of fatigue. 



APPETITE. 8 1 

At the same time the mind is occupied with objects 
analogous to its wants ; memory remembers the 
things that flattered the taste; imagination £uicies 
it sees them — in fact, it is something like a dream. 
This state is not without pleasure, and we have heard 
a thousand times skilful gastronomes exclaim with joy- 
fulness, " What a comfort it is to have a good appetite, 
when we are certain of soon having a good meal !" 

However, the whole alimentary system is in motion. 
The stomach becomes sensitive, the gastric juices are 
excited and the internal gases are displaced with noise, 
the mouth becomes moist, and all the digestive powers 
are under arms, like soldiers ready for action who 
merely await the word of command After a few 
moments there may be spasmodic motions, gaping 
and pain ; one feels hungry. 

We may see all these gradations, in their different 
stages, in every drawing-room when dinner is delayed. 

They are so inherent to man's nature that the most 
exquisite politeness cannot disguise these symptoms. 
Hence I have deduced the apophthegm : Of all the 
qualities of the cook the most indispensable is punc- 
tuality. 

Anecdote. 

24. — To support this grave maxim, I shall relate 
what I have observed myself at a party where I was, 
Quorum pars magna fui, and where the pleasure of 
observing saved me from anguish and misery. 

I was one day invited to dine at the house of a 
high public functionary. The letter of invitation was 

L 



82 MEDITATION IV. 

for " five thirty," and at the appointed moment every- 
body was there, for it was known that the minister 
liked punctuality, and sometimes scolded the dilatory. 
I was struck, when coming in, by the air of con- 
sternation which I saw amongst the company. 
People whispered together and looked into the court- 
yard through the window ; some faces indicated stupe- 
faction ; certainly something extraordinary had hap- 
pened 

I approached one of the guests whom I thought 
could most likely satisfy my curiosity, and asked him 
what was the matter. " Alas ! " he answered, in tones 
of the deepest sorrow, " my lord has been sununoned 
to the Council of State ; he has just gone, and who 
knows when he will retiun ? " 'Us that all ? " said I, 
with a careless air that was very different from my 
real feelings. "At most, this is an affair of a quarter 
of an hour : they may have required some informa- 
tion ; we know that to-day an official dinner is given 
here, and there can be no reason to make us fast" I 
spoke thus ; but, in fact, I was not so easy, and wished 
that I were far away. 

The first hour passed well enough ; those who 
were intimate sat near to each other ; commonplace 
topics were worn out, and people amused themselves 
with conjectures as to the reason of our dear host 
being called to the Tuileries. 

At the second hour we began to perceive a few 
symptoms of impatience. People looked anxiously at 
each other, and the first to grumble were three or 



APPETITE. 83 

four guests who, having found no place to sit in, were 
not in a comfortable position to wait. 

At the third hour the discontent became general, 
and everybody complained. " When will he return ?" 
said one. *^ What is he thinking about ?" said another. 
" It will be the death of some of us ! " said a third. 
Every one put to himself, without ever replying to it, 
the question, " Shall we go or not ? " 

At the fourth hour all the symptoms became aggra- 
vated : people stretched their arms at the risk of 
knocking out their neighbours* eyes ; loud yawning 
was heard from all parts of the room ; all the faces 
bore the marks of concentration, and no one listened 
to me when I said that his absence would probably 
grieve our Amphitryon more than any of us. 

Our attention was diverted for a moment by an 
apparition. One of the guests, better acquainted 
with the house than the others, had found his way to 
the kitchens, and now returned out of breath. His 
face announced that the end of the world was at hand 
and he cried out with a scarcely articulate voice, and 
in that muffled tone which signifies at the same time 
the fear of making a noise and the desire of being 
understood, " My lord has gone away without giving 
any orders, and however long his absence may be, 
dinner will not be served till his return." The alarm 
caused by his speech will not be exceeded by the 
effect of the trumpet on the day of judgment. 

Among all those martyrs, the most unhappy w? 
the good d'Aigrefeuille, well known to all paris 



84 MEDITATION IV. 

His whole body seemed to suffer, and the agony 
of Laocoon was depicted on his face. Pale, terrified, 
seeing nothing, he crouched in an easy chair, crossed 
his little hands on his big belly, and closed his eyes 
not to sleep, but to await death. 

It came not, however. Towards ten o'clock a car- 
riage was heard to roll into the courtyard. Every- 
body arose with a spontaneous movement. Liveliness 
succeeded to dejection, and in five minutes we were 
at table. 

But the hour of appetite had gone. Every one was 
surprised at having to dine at such an unseasonable 
time ; the jaws had none of that isochronous action 
which announces regular work ; and I know that many 
guests were inconvenienced by this dinner. 

In similar cases, the proper course to be taken is 
not to eat immediately after the obstacle has ceased, 
but to drink a glass of eau sucrie or a small basin of 
soup to sustain the stomach ; and to wait then for 
twelve or fifteen minutes. Unless you do so, the 
irritated stomach will be oppressed by the weight of 
food with which it is overloaded. 

Great Appetites. 

25. — When we see in early books the prepara- 
tions made to receive two or three persons, and 
the enormous portions served up to one single guest, 
we must conclude that the men who lived nearer 
than ourselves to the cradle of the world were also 
endowed with much greater appetites. 



APPETITE. 85 

This appetite was fancied to increase in direct 
proportion with the dignity of the personage, and 
he to whom nothing less than a whole baron of five- 
year-old beef would be served was destined to drink 
frcMn a cup he could scarcely lift. 

Some individuals have existed more recently, as a 
testimony of what might have occurred long ago ; and 
there are on record many examples of a voracity 
scarcely imaginable, and which included everything, 
even the foulest objects. 

I shall spare these unpleasant details to my readers, 
and I prefer to tell them two particular instances 
which I witnessed, and which do not require on 
their part a very implicit faith. 

Some forty years ago, I went to pay a flying visit 
to the vicar of Bregnier, a very tall man, and known 
throughout the district for his appetite. 

Although it was scarcely noon, I found him already 
at table. The soup and bouilli had been removed, 
and to these stock dishes had succeeded a leg of 
mutton i la royale^ a rather fine capon, and a 
large bowl of salad. 

As soon as he saw me come in, he ordered another 
knife and fork, but I declined. And I was right ; for 
alone, and without aid, he quite easily got rid of 
everything, leaving of the leg of mutton nothing but 
its shank, of the fowl nothing but its bones, and of 
salad nothing but the dish. 

They brought him soon a rather large white cheese, 
in which he made an angular breach of ninety degrees ; 



us HEDITATIOTI IV. 

Prosper was as good a fellow as he afterwards 
proved himself a good soldier ; he consented to the 
request of his antagonist, who had for his share the 
carcass of the bird in rather good condition, but 
who paid cheerfully both for the turkey and for the 
luual accompaniments. 

General Sibuei was very fond of telling about this 
prowess of his youth, and used to say that his taking 
the fanner into partnership was an act of mere 
courtesy, and that he was certain that, without this 
assistance, he would have been able to gain the 
wager. When he was forty years old there remained 
to him an appetite which did not permit us to doubt 
his assertion. 




*♦"> 



'■-^^Jr^^^J 




MEDITATION V. 

ON FOOD IN GENERAL. 



SECTION I. 



Defitation. 



s understood by food P 

— Food is everything that 



36._What is 

The popular 
nourishes us. 

The scientific answer is : — We understand by food 
the substances which, submitted to the stotnach, can 
be assimilated by digestion, and repair the losses which 
the human body suffers by the wear and tear of life. 

Thus the distinctive quality of f(>od c 
capability to be assimilated by an animal. 



f)0 MRDITATTO?f V. 

AfUllyiU. 

27. — The animal and ve^ri^tahle Icn-^rioraa ar«? 
tho«;e whirh up to the present time ha\e famished 
the iofA of the human race. From minerals have 
been only taJcen merlirmes or poisons. 

Sinre analytiral chemistry h^as become a certain 
ftrienre, we have gained j^eater insi^^ht in:o the double 
nature of the elements of which our body is com- 
p^'^ed, and of those substances v^hich nature seems to 
have intended to repair its losses. 

These two branches of study have a close analo;:^-, 
tnAsmurh as man is composed in a great part of the 
same suh>stanres as the animals he {^^^^ upon, and 
as it is necessary also to W>k amongst vegetables for 
the affinities which render them capable of being 
assimilated fjy animals. 

In these two branches the most praiseworthy, and 
at the same time the most minute, efforts have been 
made to carry on the investigation, which extends 
cither to the JxKly of man or to the food whereb>' he 
repairs his losses. This examination is made at first 
into the secondary particles^ and finally in their 
elements, Jxryond which wc arc as yet not f)ermitted 
to penetrate. 

Here I had intended to insert a little treatise on 
the chemistry of food, and to teach my readers how 
many thousandths parts of carbon, hydrogen, etc., 
may exist in them and in the meats on which they 
feed ; but I have been stopped by the reflection that 



ON FOOD IN GENERAL. 9 1 

I could only fulfil this task by merely copying the 
excellent treatises on chemistry which are in the 
hands of everybody. Moreover, I feared to fall into 
dry details, and I have limited myself to a methodical 
nomenclature, — except, here and there, where some 
chemical results are mentioned in terms less bristling 
and more intelligible. 

Osmazome. 

28. — The greatest service chemistry has rendered 
to the science of food is the discovery, or rather the 
exact definition, of osmazome. 

Osmazome is that eminently sapid part of meat 
which is soluble in cold water, and which is dis- 
tinguished firom the extractive part,, because the latter 
is only soluble in boiling water. 

It is osmazome which constitutes the real merit 
of good soups. When it has passed into a state re- 
sembling caramel it forms the browning of meat, as 
well as the crisp-brown of roast-meat; finally, from 
it the odour of venison and game arise. 

Osmazome is derived, above all, from full-grown 
animals with dark reddish flesh, such as are called 
" meaty ; " it is only found in very small quantity or 
is absent in lamb, sucking-pigs, fowls, or even in the 
white meat of the largest poultry : it is for this reason 
that real connoisseurs have always preferred the thick 
part of the thigh ; their instinct of taste has antici- 
pated science. 



92 MEDITATION V. 

The anticipated knowledge of the existence of 
osmazome has also caused so many cooks to be 
dismissed for having appropriated the first soups. 
This has made the reputation of the soupes de 
primes ; the use of some broth as a restorative 
after bathing, and which led Canon Chevrier to 
invent padlocks for his stockpots. This same canon 
would never have spinach served up on Fridays that 
had not been cooked the Sunday before, and put every 
day on the fire, with a new addition of fresh butter. 

Finally, it is to prevent any waste of this substance, 
although yet unknown, that the maxim was intro- 
duced which says that, to make good soup, the pot 
must only simmer or "smile," an expression very 
significant for the country that originated it 

Osmazome, discovered after having been so long 
the pleasure of our forefathers, may be compared 
to alcohol, that had intoxicated many generations 
before it became known that it could be extracted by 
distillation. 

After osmazome comes, by meat being treated with 
boiling water, what is understood especially as "ex- 
tractive matter ; " this latter product, combined with 
osmazome, forms the gravy of the meat. 

The Composition of Foods, 

Fibre is what composes the tissue of the meat, 
and what is apparent after cooking. Fibre resists 
boiling water, and keeps its form although deprived 



ON FOOD IN GENERAL. 93 

of a part of its envelopes. To carve meat properly, 
we should take care that the fibre is at a right 
angle, or nearly so, with the blade of the knife, 
because meat cut thus looks better, tastes nicer, and 
is more easily chewed. 

Bones consist principally of gelatine and of phos- 
phate of lime. 

The quantity of gelatine diminishes as we grow 
older. At seventy years, bones are only a kind of 
imperfect marble. This is the reason why they are 
so easily broken ; which should teach all old people 
to be careful, and to avoid occasions of falling. 

Albiunen is found as well in flesh as in blood. 
It coagulates at a lower temperature than 104° 
Fahrenheit, and forms the sciun on soups. 

Gelatine is also found in the bones, and in the 
soft and cartilaginous parts. Its distinctive quality 
is that of coagulating at the ordinary temperature of 
the atmosphere ; two and a half per cent., infused in 
warm water, suffices. 

Gelatine is the basis of all jellies, blanc-mange, and 
similar preparations. 

Fat is a concrete oil, which is formed in the in- 
terstices of the cellular tissue, and is sometimes accu- 
mulated in masses in animals that are predisposed 
that way by Nature or art, as pigs, poultry, ortolans, 
and beccaficos. In some of these animals it loses its 
insipidity, and gives out a slight flavour, which ren- 
ders it very agreeable. 

Blood is composed of albuminous serum, of fibrine, 



94 MEDITATION V. 

of a little gelatine, and a little osmazome. It coagu- 
lates in hot water, and becomes a very nourishing 
ax;ticle of food, the black pudding. 

All the principles we have passed under review are 
common to man, and to the animals on which he is 
accustomed to feed. It is therefore not surprising that 
an animal diet is eminently restorative and strengthen- 
ing, because the particles whereof it is composed hav- 
ing with ours a great similitude, and being already 
animalised, may easily animalise themselves anew 
when they are submitted to the vital action of our 
digestive organs. 

The Vegetable Kingdom, 

29. — Nevertheless the vegetable kingdom presents 
for nutritive purposes as much variety and resources. 

Starch is essentially nutritious, and the more so as 
it is less mixed with foreign principles. 

We understand by starch the flour or dust that 
may be obtained from cereal grains, leguminous 
plants, and from many sorts of roots, amongst which 
the potato holds the first rank at the present day. 

Starch is the basis of bread, of pastry, and of 
purees of all kinds, and thus to a great degree 
enters into the nourishment of nearly every nation. 

It has been remarked that such a nourishment 
softens the fibre and diminishes the courage. We 
may refer to the Hindoos, who live almost exclu- 
sively on rice, and who have become subjugated by 
any one who chose to conquer them. 



ON FOOD IN GENERAL. 95 

Nearly all the domestic animals eat starch with 
avidity, and they are made by it, on the contrary, 
extremely strong, inasmuch as it is a more substantial 
nourishment than the dry or green vegetables which 
form their habitual food. 

Sugar is not less important, either as a food or 
as a medicine. 

This substance, once imported from the Indies or 
the colonies, became indigenous in France at the 
commencement of this century. It has been dis- 
covered and traced in grapes, turnips, chestnuts, 
and especially in beetroot ; so that, strictly speaking, 
Europe might, in this respect, suffice for its own 
production and consumption, and dispense with 
America and the Indies. This is an important 
service which science has rendered to society, and 
an example that may have by and by greater re- 
sults. (See the article on Sugar, § viii., 45.) 

Sugar, either in the solid state or in the various 
plants in which Nature has placed it, is extremely 
nourishing. Animals are fond of it, and the English 
give it frequently to their favourite horses, as they 
have remarked that thus they can stand better the 
various trials to which they have to submit. 

Sugar, which, in the days of Louis XIV., was 
only sold by apothecaries, has given birth to many 
lucrative professions, such as pastry-cooks, confec- 
tioners, liqueur manufacturers, and other dealers in 
sweet stuff. 

Sweet oils are also derived from the vegetable 



96 MEDITATION V. 

kingdom : they are only esculent as far as they are 
united with other substances, and ought principally 
to be regarded as a seasoning. 

Gluten, which is found especially in com, contri- 
butes powerfully to the fermentation of the bread of 
which it forms a part Some chemists assign to it 
somewhat of an animal nature. 

They make in Paris, for children and birds, and 
for men in somfe departments, a kind of pastry wherein 
gluten predominates, a part of the starch having been 
removed by water. 

Mucilage owes its nutritive quality to the various 
substances to which it serves as a vehicle. 

Gum may, in need, be used as a food, which 
ought not to surprise us, inasmuch as it contains 
nearly the same elements as sugar. 

Vegetable gelatine, which is extracted from many 
sorts of fruit, especially apples, gooseberries, quinces, 
and some others, may also serve as a food. It fulfils 
this function better combined with sugar, but much 
less than the animal jellies which are derived from 
bones, horns, calves' feet, and isinglass. It generally 
forms a light, mild, and healthy nourishment, and is 
much used both in the kitchen and in the pantry. 

Difference between Fat and Lean, 

• 

Excepting the gravy, which, as we have said, is 
composed of osmazome and an extractive basis, we 
find in fishes most of the substances which we have 



ON FOOD IN GENERAL. 97 

observed in land animals, such as fibrine, gelatine, 
albumen. So that we may truly say that it is the 
gravy which makes the difference between an ordi- 
nary dinner and Lenten fare. 

Lenten fare is also characterised by another 
peculiarity. Fish contains a considerable quantity 
of phosphorus and hydrogen — that is to say, two 
of the most combustible elements in nature. It 
follows from this that fish diet iajl^ost heatingj 
which may perhaps account for a certain reputation 
formerly enjoyed by some religious orders, whose 
manner of living was directly in contradiction with 
one of their vows, which was then already reputed 
to be the most £agile. 

Individual Instance. 

30. — I shall not say more on this physiological 
question ; but I ought not to omit a fact of which 
the truth can easily be verified. 

Some years ago I went to call at a country house, 
in a little hamlet near Paris, situated on the banks 
of the Seine, opposite the island of Saint-Denis, 
which hamlet consisted chiefly of eight fishing huts. 
I was struck with the quantity of children I saw 
swarming on the road. 

I expressed my astonishment to the boatman who 
was rowing me across. " Sir," he said, " we are 
only eight families here, and we have fifty-three 
children, of whom forty-nine are girls and only four 

N 



9(8 MEDITATION V. 

boys ; one of these boys is mine." As he spoke, 
he held up his head with a triumphant air, and 
showed me a little scamp of five or six years old, 
lying in the bows of the boat, crunching some raw 
cray-fish. 

From this observation, made more than ten years 
ago, and from several others that I cannot as easily 
give, I have been led to think that the genetic 
properties produced by a fish diet appear to be 
rather excitant than plethoric or substantial. I am 
still more inclined to this opinion when I see that, 
quite lately, Dr. Bailly has proved, as the result of 
observations made for nearly a ccntur)', that when- 
ever in the annual list of births the number of girls 
is much larger than that of boys, the excess of 
females is invariably due to debilitating circum- 
stances, which may also explain to us why some 
jokes have been made at all times about a husband 
whose wife is brought to bed of a daughter. 

Many things might be said on foods considered 
as a whole, and on the diverse modifications that 
may arise when they are mixed. But I trust that 
what precedes will more than suffice for the greatest 
number of my readers. I refer the others to the 
professional treatises, and I shall conclude with two 
remarks which are not without some importance. 

The first is, that animalisation is produced nearly 
in the same manner as vegetation — that is to say, 
that the reparatory current formed by the digestion 
is inhaled in various manners by the sieves or suckers 



ON FOOD IN GENERAL. 99 

with which our organs are provided, and becomes 
flesh, nails, bone, or hairs, as the same earth, watered 
by the same water, may produce a radish, a lettuce, 
or a dandelion, according to the seeds the gardener 
has planted in it. 

The second is, that we do not obtain in a living 
organism the same products as in abstract chemistry, 
for the organs destined to produce life and move- 
ment act powerfully on the elementary substances 
that are submitted to them. 

Bui Nature, who likes to wrap herself in veils, and 
to stop us at the second or third step, has concealed 
the laboratory wherein she performs her transforma- 
tions, and it is really difficult to explain how, given a 
human body containing lime, sulphur, phosphorus, 
iron, and ten other substances besides, the whole 
may nevertheless be sustained and renewed during 
several years with bread and water alone. 





MEDITATION VI. 

SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD. 



SECTION II, 

31. — When I commenced to write, my table of 
content! was already made out, and I had the 
whole plan of my boek in my head ; nevertheless, 1 
only have progressed slowly, because a part of my 
time was devoted to graver occupations. 

In the meanwhile, some pans of the subject that 
I had thought to be my very own have been touched 
upon by others. Elementary works on chemistry and 
materia medica have been put into the hands of every 
one, and several things which I imagined I shojld 
teach for the first time have become already popular. 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD. 10 1 

For' example, I had devoted to the chemistry of the 
stock-pot some pages whereof the substance will be 
found in two or three recently published works. 

Consequently, I have been obliged to revise this 
portion of my work, and I have so condensed it 
that it is reduced to a few elementary principles, to 
some theories that cannot be too widely known, and 
to a few observations, the fruit of a long experience, 
and which I trust will be new to the great majority of 
my readers. 

§ I. — Pot-au-feUy Soupy 6f*c. 

32. — ^We call pot-au'/eu a piece of beef put into 
boiling water, with a little salt, to extract its soluble 
parts. 

The bouillon is the fluid which remains after the 
operation. 

BouUH is the flesh deprived of its soluble parts. 

Water dissolves at first a part of the osmazome ; 
then the albumen coagulates at about 104 degrees 
Fahrenheit, and forms the scum, which is usually 
skimmed off. The remainder of the osmazome, with 
the extractive part or juice, is next dissolved ; and, 
finally, some part of the envelopes of the fibres, which 
are detached by the continuous boiling. 

To have good bouillon^ the water must be heated 
gently, so that the albumen should not coagulate 
within the meat before being extracted ; the boiling 
should be scarcely perceptible, so that the various 



102 MEDITATION VI. 

parts which are successively dissolved may be mixed 
thoroughly and without trouble. 

Vegetables or roots are added to the stock to 
improve the flavour, and bread or pastes to render 
it more nourishing. This is what is called a potage 
or soup. 

Soup is a wholesome, light, and nutritious food, 
which suits ever>'body. It comforts the stomach, 
and disposes it to receive and to digest food. Persons 
inclined to be stout should take only bouillon. 

It is generally admitted that soup is never made so 
well as in France, and I have observed in my travels 
the truth of this statement confirmed. This result 
ought not to surprise us, as soup is the basis of our 
French national diet, and the experience of centuries 
must necessarily have made it more and more perfects 

§ U.—Of Bouiiii. 

33. — Boutin is a wholesome food, which satisfies 
hunger readily, is easily enough digested, but which 
alone does not give much strength, inasmuch as the 
meat has lost in the boiling a part of the animal is- 
able juices. 

We may take it as a general rule in housekeeping, 
that beef loses half of its weight when boiled. 

We may group under four categories all persons 
who eat bouillu 

I*. Men of routine, who eat it because their an- 
cestors ate it, and who, following this practice im- 
plicitly, expect their children to imitate them. 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD. I03 

2**. Impatient men, who, detesting to be inactive 
even at table, have acquired the habit of throwing 
themselves at once upon whatever is first put before 
them {materiam subjeciatn), 

3°, Inattentive men, who, not having received from 
heaven the sacred fire, look upon dining as a period 
of forced labour, put on the same level anything which 
can nourish them, and are at table like an oyster 
on its bed. 

4°, Gluttons, who, gifted with an appetite of which 
they seek to conceal the capacity, hasten to throw 
into their stomach the first victim they can find to 
appease the gastric fire which devours them, and 
to serve as a basis for all the different things they 
wish to send the same way. 

Real gastronomes never eat bouilli on principle, 
and because they have heard it authoritatively stated 
as an incontestable truth that bouilli is meat without 



gravy.* 



§ \\\,— Poultry. 



34. — I am a strong partisan of second causes, and 
I believe firmly that the entire gallinaceous order has 
been merely created to furnish our larders and to 
enrich our banquets. 

In fact, from the quail to the turkey, wherever we 
meet an individual of this numerous family, we are 

* This is a truth that is beginning to be understood, and houiHi has 
disappeared in first-class dinners. It is replaced by a piece of roast 
meat, a turbot, or a matelotU, 



I04 MEDITATION VI. 

certain of finding a light and savoury food, which is 
as suitable to a convalescent as to a man who enjoys 
the most robust health. 

For who is there amongst us, condemned by the 
medical faculty to the fare of the hermits in the 
desert, who has not smiled at seeing a neatly-carved 
wing of a chicken, announcing his return to social 
life? 

We are not satisfied with the qualities that Nature 
has given to the gallinaceous race. Art has taken 
possession of them, and, on the pretext of improving 
them, has nuide them into martyrs. They are not 
merely deprived of the means of reproduction, but 
they are kept in solitude, thrown into darkness, and 
forced to eat. They are thus brought to a size which 
Nature never intended for them. 

It is true that this preternatural fat is very nice, 
and that this infernal skill gives them that delicacy 
and juiciness which make them to be the chief dishes 
of our best tables. 

Thus improved, poultry is for the cook what canvas 
is for a painter, and the cap of Fortunatus for con- 
jurors. It is served up boiled, roasted, fried, hot or 
cold, whole or in parts, with or without sauce, boned, 
grilled, stuffed, and always with the same success. 

Three districts of ancient France rival for the 
honour of furnishing the finest poultry : Caux, le 
Mans, and la Bresse. 

As to capons, there is always some doubt; the 
one a man has his fork in always appearing the best 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD, 105 

But as regards chickens, we prefer those of Bresse, 
which are csMtA poulardes fines ^ and are as round as 
an apple. It is a great pity that they are so rare in 
Paris, where they only arrive as occasional presents. 

§ W.—The Turkey. 

35. — The turkey is certainly one of the most 
beautiful presents which the New World has made to 
the Old. 

Those who always desire to be better informed 
than others, say that the turkey was known to the 
Romans, that it was served up at the wedding- 
feast of Charlemagne, and that therefore it is an 
error to attribute this savoury importation to the 
Jesuits. 

To meet these paradoxes two objections may be 
made: 

1°. That in French the name of the bird, Cog 
(PInde or Dindofiy proves its origin, because at one 
time America was called the " West Indies." 

2". The shape of the bird is evidently quite foreign. 
No man able to judge could make a mistake in this. 

But although I am already perfectly satisfied, 1 
have made on this matter rather considerable re- 
searches, which I shall not inflict on my readers, but 
of which I shall only give the results : 

1°. The turkey first appeared in Europe towards 

the end of the seventeenth century. 

2**. It was imported by the Jesuits, who reared a 

O 



106 MEDITATION VI. 

large number especially on a farm which they pos- 
sessed near Bourges. 

3°. They spread thence gradually over the whole 
of France, which is the reason that in many places, 
and in familiar speech, a turkey was formerly, and 
is to this day, called *' a Jesuit." 

4*. Only in America has the turkey been found in 
a wild state, and in a state of nature ; — it does not 
exist in Africa. 

5*. In the farms of North America, where the 
turkey is very common, it is got either from eggs 
which have been foimd and hatched, or from young 
birds caught in the woods and tamed The conse- 
quence is, that they are more like a wild turkey, and 
preserve their original plumage. 

Convinced by these arguments, I owe to the good 
fathers a double debt of gratitude, for they also im- 
ported the chinchona, which is called in English 
«« Jesuits* bark." 

The same researches taught me that the turkey 
is gradually becoming acclimatised in France. Well- 
informed observers have told me that towards the 
middle of the last century, out of twenty turkeys that 
were hatched, scarcely ten lived to maturity, while 
now, all things being equal, out of twenty fifteen are 
reared. Storms of rain are especially fatal to them ; 
large drops of rain driven onward by the wind and 
striking their tender and undefended heads destroy 
them. 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD. 10? 

TURKET-LOVERS. 

36.^-The turkey is the largest, and, if not the 
finest, at least the most savoury of our domestic 
birds. 

It enjoys, moreover, the unique advantage of unit- 
ing around it all classes of society. 

When our vine-dressers and our farmers wish to 
regale themselves in the long winter evenings, what 
do we see roasting at the brilliant fire of the kitchen 
where the table is spread ? A turkey. # 

When a useful mechanic, when a laborious artist, 
assembles a few friends to enjoy some relaxation, 
which is the more prized because it is so rare, what 
is the dish which, as a matter of course, he sets 
before them? A turkey stuffed with sausages or 
Lyons chestnuts. 

And in our most gastronomical circles, in those 
select companies where politics is forced to give 
way to dissertations on taste, what is expected, 
what is desired, what is always seen at the second 
course ? A truffled turkey. A truffled turkey 1 . . . 
And my " Secret Memoirs " tell me that its restora- 
tive juices have more than once lighted up most diplo- 
matic faces. 

Influence op the Turkey on the Money-Market. 

37. — The importation of turkeys has become the 
cause of an important increase to the public revenue, 
and gives rise to a pretty considerable trade. 



108 MEDITATION VI. 

By means of the rearing of turkeys, the farmers 
get more easily the money for their rent, the young 
girls often save up a sufficient dowr>', and the towns- 
men who wish to feast on their foreign flesh have to 
pay round prices. 

From a purely financial point of view, truffled 
turkeys demand particular attention. 

I have reason to believe that in Paris alone, from 
the beginning of November to the end of February', 
three hundred truffled turkeys are daily consumed, 
which makes ^a total of thirty-six thousand turkeys. 

The price of such a turkey is at least twenty francs, 
so that for the whole is paid no less than 720,000 
francs, which is a very fair sum to put in circula- 
tion. To that a similar sum should be added 
for chickens and poultr>', pheasants or partridges, 
similarly truffled, which are to be seen every day 
displayed in the provision shops, torturing every 
looker-on who finds himself too short of cash to get 
hold of them. 

An ExPLorr of the Professor. 

38. — During my stay at Hartford, in Connecticut, 
I had the good fortune to kill a wild turkey. This 
exploit deserves to be transmitted to posterity, and 
I shall narrate it all the more complacently as I am 
the hero myself. 

An old American farmer had invited me to come 
and have some shooting ; he lived in the backwoods, 
promised me partridges, grey squirrels, wild turkeys, 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD. f09 

and told me to bring a friend or two with me if I 
pleased. 

Accordingly, one fine day in October, 1794, Mr. 
King and I set out, mounted on two hacks, with the 
hope of arriving towards the evening at the farm of 
Mr. Bulow, situate about five mortal leagues from 
Hartford, in Connecticut. 

Mr. King was a sportsman of a peculiar kind. 
He was passionately fond of this exercise ; but as 
soon as he had killed a piece of game, he looked 
upon himself as a murderer, making on the fate 
of the defunct moral reflections and elegiacs 
which, however, did not prevent him from begin- 
ning again. 

Although the road was a mere track, we arrived 
there without accident, and we were received with 
that cordial and unobtrusive hospitality which is 
shown by acts ; in a few seconds every one of 
us, men, horses, and dogs, were examined, caressed, 
and lodged, according to their respective require- 
ments. 

About two hours were spent in looking over the 
farm and its dependencies. I should willingly de- 
scribe it all, but I prefer to show the reader the 
four buxom daughters of Mr. Bulow, for whom our 
arrival was a great event. 

Their age was from sixteen to twenty ; they were 
radiant with freshness and health, and they were alto- 
gether so simple, lithe, and easy, that the most ordi- 
nary action seemed to lend them a thousand charms. 



no MEDITATION TL 

Soon after returning from our walk, we sat down 
around a table abundantly supplied. There was a 
superb piece of corned beef, a stewed goose, and a 
magnificent leg of mutton, with vegetables of even- 
description, and at each end of the table two large 
jugs of cider, of which I never tired drinking. 

When we had proven to our host that we were 
genuine sportsmen, at least by our appetite, he occu- 
pied himself with the object of our journey ; he 
indicated as best he could the places to find game, 
the land-marks that might guide us on our way 
back, and, above all, the fanns where we might find 
something to refresh us. 

During this conversation, the ladies had made 
some excellent tea, of which we drank several cups ; 
we were then shown to a double-bedded room, where 
exercise and fatigue gave us a sound sleep. 

The next day we went shooting a little late, and 
having arrived at the end of the clearings made by 
Mr. Bulow, I found myself for the first time in a 
virgin forest, where the sound of the axe had never 
been heard. 

I walked about with delight, observing the good 
and the ravages wrought by Time, the creator and 
destroyer, and I amused myself with following out all 
the phases of an oak's existence, from the moment 
when it springs out of the earth with two leaves, to 
that when nothing more remains of it than a long 
black line, which is the dust of its heart 

Mr. King scolded me for my absence of mind, and 



SFECIAL KQTTS CF FCCD. HI 



cumm cB c ed ocr sport. We kijed as £rst sooe ot 
those pretrr ihiSe grey partriBi^es that are so pl^anp 
and so tender; «e knocked over aiiervards six or 
scren grey s q^iels viii^ are tbxi^t of moch in 
these parts; and frLaZy, ocr hscky star broc^ht us 
into the middle of a dock of tcrkeysL 

They rose one after annchrr at short intenals* 
flying noisily and rapidly, and screaming locdhr. 
Mr. King fired on the first and ran after h. The 
others were oat of shoe ; finally^ the most lazy rose 
at ten paces from me. It passed throi^ a break in 
the wood ; I fired, and it fell dead. 

A spor tsm an ak»e can ccmceiTe my extreme 
delight at such a good shot. I picked op the noble 
bird, and turned it over on every side for a quarter 
of an hour, when I heard Mr. King calling to me. 
I ran to him, and foond that he had only called 
me to aid him in finding a turkey which he declared 
he had killed, and irtiich iie\'ertheless had disap- 



I put my dog on the scent, but he led us into 
thickets so thick and thorny that a snake could 
hardly have penetrated them ; it was therefore neces- 
sary to abandcMi the search, which put my comrade in 
a fit of bad temper that lasted till we returned. 

The rest of our sport is scarcely worthy of record. 
On our way back we lost ourselves in these infinite 
woods, and ran great risk of passing the night there, 
had it not been for the silvery tones of Mr. Bulow's 
daughters, and the deep bass voice of their father, 



112 MEDITATION VI. 

who had come to meet us, and aided us to get out of 
our difficulty. 

The four sisters were fully equipped with fresh 
dresses, new sashes, pretty hats, and dainty boots, and 
it was evident that they had taken some pains on our 
account I had, for my part, the intention of making 
myself agreeable to one of the young ladies, who took 
my arm as naturally as if she had been my wife. 

On arriving at the farm, we found the supper 
served, but before attacking it, we sat down for a few 
minutes before a blazing and cheerful fire which had 
been lighted for us, although the weather did not 
require this precaution. We found it very comfort- 
able, and were refreshed as if by enchantment. 

This custom is undoubtedly derived from the 
Indians, who have always a fire in their wigwams. 
Perhaps it may be a tradition from St. Francis de 
Sales, who used to say that a fire is good during 
twelve months of the year ; an opinion to which I do 
not subscribe. 

We ate like starving men ; an ample bowl of punch 
was brought to enable us to finish the evening, and 
the conversation of our host, who talked more in- 
genuously than on the previous evening, led us far 
into the night. 

We spoke of the War of Independence, in which 
Mr. Bulow had served as a superior officer ; of M. 
de La Fayette, whose memory every day becomes 
dearer to the Americans, who always speak of 
him as <Uhe Marquis;" of agriculture, which at 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD. II3 

that time was enriching the United States, and finally 
of my own dear France, which I loved all the more 
from being obliged to quit it. 

During the intervals of conversation, Mr. Bulow 
would from time to time ask his eldest daughter, 
Maria, to give us a song. And she sang us without 
being pressed, and with a charming hesitation, the 
national air, "Yankee Doodle," the "Lament of 
Queen Mary," and one on Major Andr^, which are 
all very popular in that country. Maria had taken 
some lessons in singing, and in this solitary place 
was considered quite a " cantatrice ;" but the great 
merit of her song was, above all, the quality of her 
voice, which was at the same time sweet, fresh, and 
unaffected. 

Next day we went away, though urged to stay, 
but I could not, as I had also duties to fulfil in 
America. As they were getting the horses ready, 
Mr. Bulow took me aside, and said the following 
remarkable words ; — 

" You behold in me, my dear sir, a happy man, if 

there is one on earth ; everything you see around you, 

and what you have seen at my house, is produced on 

my farm. These stockings have been knitted by my 

daughters ; my shoes and my clothes come from my 

herds ; they, with my garden and my farm-yard, supply 

me with plain and substantial food. The greatest 

praise of our government is that in Connecticut 

there are thousands of farmers quite as content as 

myself, and whose doors, like mine, are never locked. 

P 



114 MEDITATION VI. 

" Taxes here scarcely amount to anything, and, as 
long as they are paid, we can sleep calmly. Congress 
favours in every possible way our rising industry ; 
agents from every quarter are always ready to rid 
us of all that we have to sell ; and I have ready- 
money in hand for a long time, having just sold at 
twenty-four dollars the barrel of flour for which I 
usually get but eight. 

"All this is due to the liberty we have won by 
arms and established on good laws. I am master in 
my own house, and you will not be astonished to 
know that the sound of the drum is never heard 
there, and that, unless on the 4th of July, the glorious 
anniversary of our independence, we never see either 
soldiers, or uniforms, or bayonets." 

During the whole time of our return-journey I 
was absorbed in deep reflection. Perhaps it may be 
thought that I was meditating on the last allocution 
of Mr. Bulow; but I was thinking on something 
quite different, namely, how I should get my turkey 
cooked. I felt quite embarrassed, being afraid that 
I should not find at Hartford all that I could have 
desired, because I wished to raise a trophy to my 
skill in displaying my spolia opima to advantage. 

I make a painful sacrifice in suppressing the 
details of the great work of which the purpose was 
to give a dinner in good style, to which I had invited 
several American friends. Suffice it to say, that the 
w^ings of the partridge were served en papillotte^ and 
that the grey squirrels were stewed in Madeira. 



SPEaAL KINDS OF FOOD. II5 

As for the turkey, which was the only roast we 
had, it was charming to look upon, delightful to 
smell, and delicious to taste ; and so, until the last 
morsel was eaten, you could hear all around the table, 
" Very good ! exceedingly good ! " " Oh, my dear 
sir, what a glorious bit." * 

§ V. — On Game, 

39. — ^We understand by game those animals good 
to eat which live free in the woods and fields in a 
state of nature. 

We say "good to eat," because some of these 
animals are not considered game, such as foxes, 
badgers, ravens, magpies, owls, and others. They 
are called in French bites puantes. 

We classify game in three divisions. 

The first begins at the thrush, and goes down to 
all birds of smaller size. 

The second conmiences with the corn-crake, the 
wood-cock, the partridge, the pheasant, the rabbit, 
and the hare ; it is game properly so-called ; on lands 
or marshes, game with down or feathers. 

* The flesh of the wild turkey has more colour and more flavour 
than that of the domestic turkey. 

I have heard with pleasture that my estimable colleaguep M. Bosc, 
has shot some in Carolina, which he found excellent, and, above 
all, much finer than those we rear in Europe. He recommends, 
therefore, that all turkeys that are reared should have as much liberty 
as possible, that they should be taken out into the fields, and even 
into the woods, to increase their flavour, and to bring them as much 
as possible nearer to the original species (" Annates d' Agriculture," 
part of 38th February x8ax). 



Il6 MEDITATION VI. 

The third is better known under the name of 
venison, and comprises the wild boar, roebuck, and 
all other cloven-footed animals. 

Game is one of the luxuries of the dinner-table ; 
it is a food healthy, heating, savoury, tasty, and easy 
of digestion to young stomachs. 

But these qualities are not so intrinsic as to be 
in a great measure independent of the skill of the 
cook. If we throw into a pot of water salt and a 
piece of beef, we will obtain some soup and some 
boiled meat. But if instead of beef we put wild 
boar or venison in the pot, we will have but poor 
fare; in this respect, butcher's meat has the ad- 
vantage. 
' Under the directions of a skilful cook, however, 
game undergoes a great number of scientific modifica- 
tions and transformations, furnishing the majority of 
the highly flavoured dishes on which a transcendental 
gastronomic art is based. 

Game also owes much of its quality to the nature 
of the soil it is fed on. The taste of a red partridge 
of Perigord is not the same as that of a red partridge 
of Sologne ; and although a hare killed in the 
neighbourhood of Paris is but a poor dish, a leveret 
from the sunburnt slopes of Valromey or Upper 
Dauphin^ is perhaps the finest flavoured of all 
quadrupeds. 

Among the small birds, the first in order of 
excellence is, without doubt, the beccafico or fig- 
pecker. 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD. II 7 

He becomes quite as fat as the redbreast or the 
ortolan, and Nature has, moreover, endowed him 
with a slight bitter taste and a unique flavour so 
exquisite that, when they are eaten, all the organs of 
taste are brought into play, fully occupied, and 
wholly beatified. If a beccafico were of the size of 
a pheasant, it would certainly cost as much as an 
acre of land. 

It is a pity that this privileged bird is seen so 
rarely in Paris ; a few certainly do arrive, but they 
are lacking in the fat which is their chief merit ; they 
scarcely resemble those of the departments of the 
east or of the south of France.* 

Few people know how to eat small birds. The 
following is the proper method, such as it has been 
confidentially entrusted to me by Canon Charcot, a 
professional gourmand^ and a perfect gastronome, 
thirty years before the word was known. 

* At BeUey, in my youth, I have heard people speak of the Jesuit 
Father Fabri, who was bom in this diocese, and of his special predilec- 
tion for beccaficoes. 

As soon as they were cried in the streets, people would say, " There are 
the beccaficoes, Father Fabri is coming presently." And sure enough 
he never failed to arrive with a friend on the ist September ; they fed 
on these birds as long as they remained, for every one was delighted to 
invite them, and they went away about the 35th. 

As long as he was in France, he never omitted to make this omt- 
thophilic voyage, which was only interrupted when he was sent to 
Rome, where he died as Penitentiary in 1788. 

Father Hononf Fabri was a man of great knowledge, and wrote 
several works of theology and physics ; in one of them he attempted to 
prove that he had discovered the circulation of the blood before, or at 
least as soon as Harvey. 



Il8 MEDITATION VI. 

Take the plump little bird by the beak, sprinkle 
over him a little salt, take out the gullet, pop him 
skilfully in your mouth, bite him off close to the 
fingers, and chew it with might and main : you will 
have enough juice to flood the whole organ, and you 
will taste a pleasure unknown to the vulgar. 

Odi profanum vulgus, etarceo, — Horace. 

The quail is, amongst game properly so-called, 
the smallest and the most agreeable. A very plump 
quail pleases as much by his taste as by his shape 
and his colour. It is very ignorant to serve it up in 
any other way than roasted or en papillotte^ because 
its flavour is very evanescent, and because every time 
the animal comes in contact with any liquid, it dis- 
solves, evaporates, and disappears. 

The woodcock is also a bird to be held in high 
esteem, but very few people know all its good points. 
A woodcock is in all its glory when it has been cooked 
under the eye of the sportsman, and, above all, of the 
sportsman who has killed it Then the roasted bird 
is in perfection, according to all rules and regulations, 
and the mouth is flooded with delight. 

Above the preceding, and indeed, above all others, 
must be placed the pheasant, but only few mortals 
know how to ser\'e it up to perfection. 

A pheasant eaten a week after being killed is not 
as good as a partridge or a fowl, for his merit con- 
sists in his aroma. 

Science has taken into consideration the merit of 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD. II 9 

this aroma, experience has used it, and a pheasant 
ready for the spit is a morsel worthy of the greatest 
connoisseur among gourmands. 

In the " Varieties " I shall show how to roast a 
pheasant h la sainte alliance^ for the moment has 
now come when this method, hitherto confined to 
a small circle of friends, should be made known far 
and wide for the happiness of mankind 

A pheasant with truffles is not so good as one 
would imagine it to be. The bird is too dry to 
flavour the tuber, and, moreover, the gamy odour of 
the one and the perfume of the other neutralise each 
other by their combination, and are not suited to 
one another. 

§ VI.— Q/" Fish, 

40. — Some men of learning, but not very orthodox, 
have maintained that the ocean was the common 
cradle of every living thing, that even the human 
race was bom in the sea, and that it only owes 
its present state to the influence of the air and to 
the habits which it has been obliged to adopt in 
order to dwell in this new element 

However this may be, it is at least certain that 
the empire of waters contains an immense number 
of beings of all forms and all dimensions, with vital 
qualities in very different proportions, and according 
to ways which differ from those of warm-blooded 
animals. 

It is not less true .that at all times and everywhere. 



l-*0 MEDITATIOX VI. 

M\ cMoiiiious mass of food is to be found in it; and 
•Juii !ii the present state of science a most agreeable 
\a;«ct> IS iritr^xluced on our dinner-tables. 

K'^^h* bein^ less nourishing than meat, and more 
xtKvulcat than vegetables, forms a "middle-term" 
^hkh suits nearly all temperaments, and may be 
jvttuitteii even to convalescents. 

the Greeks and the Romans, although not so 
ad\anced as ourselves in the art of preparing fish, 
held them, nevertheless, in great esteem, and pushed 
their refinement to such a point that they were able to 
tell, by tasting it, in what water it had been caught 

They kept their fish in fish-ponds ; and the cruelt)' 
of Vadius Pollio has come down to us, who fed his 
lampreys with the bodies of slaves he had ordered 
to be slain for the purpose, a cruelty which the 
Emperor Domitian highly blamed, but which he 
should have punished. 

A great discussion has been raised as to which is 
the best fish — sea fish or fresh-water fish. 

The question ^vill probably never be decided, for, 
according to the Spanish proverb: "On matters of 
taste there can be no dispute." Every one feels in 
his own way ; those fugitive sensations cannot be ex- 
pressed by any kno\\'n character ; and there is no 
standard by which to compare a codfish, a sole, or a 
turbot, with a salmon-trout, a first-class pike, or even 
a tench of six or seven pounds. 

It is agreed on all hands that fish is much less 
nutritious than meat, either because it does not 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD. 121 

contain osmazome, or because, being lighter in 
weight, it is less substantial than the same bulk of 
meat Shell-fish, especially oysters, furnish little 
nourishing substance ; this is the reason why so 
many can be eaten without spoiling the appetite for 
a dinner which follows immediately. 

We remember that in former times a dinner of 
any importance used to begin with oysters, and that 
there was always a good number of guests who 
did not stop until they had swallowed a gross (12 
dozens 144). I was anxious to know what was the 
weight of this advance guard, and I ascertained that a 
dozen of oysters, including water, weigh four ounces, 
which gives for the gross 3 lbs. Now it is certain 
that the same persons did not eat a less quantity 
on account of the oysters they had swallowed ; but 
that they would have completely satisfied their appe- 
tites if they had eaten the same quantity of meat, or 
even of chicken. 

Anecdote. 

In 1798, I was at Versailles as a Commissary of 
the Directory, and I had frequently to meet the 
registrar, M. Laporte, of the tribunal department 
He was very fond of oysters, and used to complain 
that he never had eaten enough of them, or, as he 
said, *< that he never had had a good bellyful." 

I resolved to procure him this satisfaction, and for 
this purpose I invited him a day beforehand to dine 
with me. 

Q 



122 MEDITATION VI. 

He came ; I kept up with him till the third dozen, 
after which I let him go on by himself. He went 
on till the thirty-second dozen, that is to say, for more 
than an hour, as the maid who opened them was not 
very skilful. 

As in the meantime I had nothing to do — at table 
this is really unbearable — I stopped my guest whilst 
in full career, and said : " My dear fellow, it is your 
destiny not to eat to-day your *good bellyful' of 
oysters ; let us now have some dinner." We did so, 
and he behaved as vigorously as a man who had 
been fasting. 

Afuria. — Garum. 

41. — The ancients made from fish two condiments 
of the highest flavour, muria and garum. 

The former was nothing but the brine of the 
tunny, or, to speak more exactly, the liquid which 
the mixture of salt caused to flow from the fish. 

Garum^ which was dearer, is not so well kno>Mi 
to us. We are told that it was extracted by pressure 
from the salted intestines of the scomber or mackerel ; 
but this supposition leaves its high price unexplained. 
It seems likely that it was a foreign sauce ; and per- 
haps it was nothing else than the "soy" which we 
get from India, and which we know to be got by the 
fermentation of a mixture of fish and mushrooms. 

Certain races, by their position, have been obliged 
to live almost entirely on fish ; they also feed on it 
their beasts of burden, which from custom are satisfied 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD. 1 23 

with this abnoimal food ; they also manure the soil 
with it ; and nevertheless the sea that surrounds them 
does not cease to yield always the same quantity. 

It has been remarked that those races are less 
courageous than those which are fed on flesh ; they 
are pale, which is not surprising, as the elements of 
which fish is composed must augment the lymph 
more than replenish the blood 

Among ichthyophagi, many examples of longevity 
have also been observed, either because a food which 
is imsubstantial and very light saves them from the 
inconveniences of fulness of blood, or because the 
juices it contains being only destined by Nature to 
form bones and cartilages which last never very long, 
the habitual use of it retards for a few years the 
soHdification of all parts of the body, which is finally 
the necessary cause of natural death. 

However this may be, fish, under skilfiil hands, may 
become an inexhaustible resource of gustatory enjoy- 
ments. It is served up entire, sliced in pieces ; done 
' in water, in oil, in wine, hot or cold, and is always 
well received ; but it never deserves a warmer 
welcome than when it is brought up en matelotte. 

This stew, though of necessity a dish often eaten by 
the sailors on our rivers, and made in perfection only 
by the inn-keepers on the banks of such rivAs, owes 
to them, nevertheless, a delicacy which is unsur- 
passed. Those who love fish never see it appear 
without expressing the highest delight, either because 
of the freshness of its taste, or because it combines 



t24 MEDITATION YV 

several good quiuities, or because it may be eaten 
almost in ui.Iirr.iied qua-VJties ii-ithout fear either of 
satietv or of :nC^L'ebt>^n, 

Anal) tic gastronomy }*a5 attempted to ascertain 
iftliat are tJie effe^^ts of a f.bh diet on the animal 
e^.onomy, ar,d unanimoub ovvenations have demon- 
btraied tl^at it acts stron;^!y on the genetic sense, and 
awakes in Ixjth bexes the instincts of reproduction. 

This result Ix-ing once knowTi, two immediate causes 
were assigned to it which anytx>dy can understand. 

I**. Various manners of preparing the fish, of which 
the condiments are obviously irritating, such as caviar, 
red herrings, pickled tunny, s>alt codfish, stock- fish, 
and some others. 

2\ The various juices imbiljed by the fish, which 
are highly inflammable, and oxygenate and turn sour 
during the prr^gress of digestion. 

A more careful analysis has discovered a third and 
more active cause, which is the presence of phos- 
phorus, which is found in the roes, and always shows 
itself when fish is in a state of decompK>sition. 

These physical truths were undoubtedly unknown 
to those ecclesiastical law-givers, who imposed a 
Lenten diet on different communities of monks, such 
as the Carthusians, the Franciscans, the Trappists, 
and the barefooted Carmelites, as reformed by Santa 
TTiercsa. For it cannot be supposed that they wished 
to render yet more difficult the observance of the vow 
of chastity, already so anti-social. 

Beyond doubt, in this state of affairs, glorious 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOODi I25 

victories have been woo, and rebellious senses have 
been conquered ; but there were also many lapses 
and defeats ! These laner must have been ii-ell 
authenticated, for they ga\'e to certain religious orders 
a reputation like that of Hercules amongst the 
Da n aid s , or that of Marshal Saxe vnih Mademoiselle 
Lecouvreur. 

Moreover, they might have been enlightened by an 
anecdote pretty old, as it has come to us from the 
Crusades. 

The Sultan Saladin, i^ishing to try how great could • 
be the continence of some derv-ishes, took two of them 
into his palace, and fed them with the most nourishing 
food for a certain time. 

Soon all traces disappeared of the severity which 
they had exercised on themselves, and they began to 
get £cit Two odalisks of great beauty were then given 
to them as their companions, but they failed in their 
best directed attacks, and the two saints came out of 
so delicate an ordeal as pure as the diamond from 
Visapoor. 

The Sultan kept them for some time longer in his 
palace, and, to celebrate their triumph, he fed them 
for several weeks on fish as well cooked. After a 
few days, they were again submitted to the united 
power of youth and beauty ; but this time Nature 
was the most powerful, and the too happy anchorites 
fell ... in a surprising manner. 

In the present state of our knowledge, it is probable 
that if at any future time monastic orders were to 



128 MEDITATION VI. 

the most sought after, as they were more delicate and 
had more flavour. 

Gusius alimenta per omnia quierunt. — Juvenal. 

From the Romans to our time there has been a 
long interregnum, and the resurrection of truffles is 
an event of recent occurrence ; for I have read many 
old pharmacopoeias that do not mention them. We 
may even say that the present generation has beheld 
this resurrection. 

Towards 1780, truffles were rare in Paris, and 
they were only to be had in small quantities at the 
H6tel des Am^ricains and at the H6tel de Provence. 
A tniflled turkey was an object of luxury which was 
only seen at the dinner-table of the greatest lords, or 
at that of kept women. 

We owe their abundance to the provision dealers, 
of whom the number has much increased, and who, 
seeing that the truffles were becoming popular, had 
them sought for all over the kingdom. They paid 
well for them, and as they were despatched by the 
^mail and by couriers, everybody went to search for 
them ; for, as truffles cannot be planted, careful search 
alone can increase their consumption. 

At the time I write (1825), the glory of the truffle 
has now reached its culmination. Who would dare 
to say that he has been at a dinner where there was 
not a pihe tntffie. However good an entrie may 
be, it should always be accompanied by truffles 
to set it oflf to advantage. 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD. 1 29 

' Who has not felt his mouth water in hearing truffles 
d la provenqale spoken of ? 

A sauti of truffles is the dish reserved for the 
mistress of the house to do the honours. In fine, 
the truffle is the very diamond of gastronomy. 

I have looked for the reason of this preference, 
as it appears to me that many^other substances had 
an equal right to this honour, and I think the reason 
is, because it is generally believed that the truffle ex- 
cites the genetic sense. Moreover, I have convinced 
myself that the greater part of our perfections, of our 
predilections, and of our admirations, are derived from 
the same cause : so powerful and general is the bon- 
dage in which this tyrannical and capricious sense 
holds us ! 

This discovery led me to wish to know if the sup- 
posed influence of the truffle was real, and if this 
opinion was founded on reality. 

Such an inquiry is no doubt ticklish, and may make 
waggish people smile; but ^'Honi soit qui mal y 
pense ! " No truth should be hidden. 

I at first addressed myself to the ladies, because 
they are clear-sighted, and possess delicate tact ; but 
I soon observed that I ought to have commenced 
this inquiry forty years earlier, for I merely received 
ironical or evasive replies. One only was sincere, 
and she shall tell her own tale. She was a very 
clever woman, without any pretensions, virtuous with- 
out prudishness, and for whom love was nothing more 
than a pleasant recollection. 



130 MEDITATION VI. 

" Sir," she said to me, " at a time when people 
were still eating suppers, I supped one day at home 
with my husband and one of his friends, whose name 
was Verseuil, a handsome fellow, rather witty, and 
who often came to our house. But he had never told 
me anything that could make me think that he was in 
love with me, and if he paid me any attentions it was 
in such a delicate manner that only a silly woman 
could have taken offence at it He appeared that 
day to be doomed to keep me company for the rest 
of the evening, for my husband had a business 
appointment, and was obliged to leave us early. 
The principal dish of our supper, sufficiently light in 
other respects, was nevertheless a magnificent truffled 
fowl Some official at P^rigueux had sent it to us, 
and at that time it was a present ; and as you know 
where it came from, you can very well imagine that it 
was a beauty. The truffles above all were delicious, 
and you know that I am very fond of them. Never- 
theless, I did not eat too much of them. I only drank 
one solitary glass of champagne, for I had a sort of 
feminine presentiment that the evening would not pass 
over without something happening. My husband went 
away early, and left me alone with Verseuil, whom 
he looked upon as one of our own. The conversa- 
tion turned at first on indifferent subjects, but it was 
not long before it took a more concise and more 
interesting turn. Verseuil became in succession 
flattering, unreserved, affectionate, caressing, and 
seeing that I only made fun of so many beautiful 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD. t3I 

sayings, he became so pressing that I could no 
longer deceive myself as to his pretensions. I woke 
up then as if from a dream, and I defended myself 
so much the more strenuously as I felt no affection 
for him. He persisted with a gesture that might 
have become quite offensive, and I had some trouble 
in making him listen to reason. I admit to my 
shame that I only succeeded because I was artful 
enough to make him believe that all hope was not 
forbidden to him. Finally, he left me. I went to lie 
down, and slept like a top. But the next day I sat 
in judgment on myself. I examined my conduct of 
the evening before, and blamed myself. I ought to 
have stopped Verseuil as soon as he began to speak, 
and not have lent myself to a conversation that fore- 
bode nothing good. I should have taken offence 
earlier. I ought to have looked sternly at him, and 
should have rang the bell, raised my voice, made a 
noise, done in fact everything that I did not do. 
Need I say anything more, sir ? I blame the 
trufHes for this. I am really persuaded that they 
were the cause of some predisposition, which might 
have become dangerous ; and if I still eat them — for 
to abstain wholly from them would have been too 
severe a punishment — at least I never eat any more 
of them without being a little careful in the midst of 
my enjoyment" 

However frank such a confession may be, it can 
never be accepted as applying to every one. I, 
therefore, looked for further information. I con- 



132 MEDITATION VL 

suited men in whom professionally great confidence 
is placed ; they formed with me a conmiittee, a 
tribunal, a senate, a sanhedrim, an areopagus, and 
we gave the following decision to be commented on 
by the literary men of the twenty-fifth century : — 

"The truffle is not a positive aphrodisiac, but it 
may under certain circumstances render women more 
affectionate, and men more amiable." 

In Piedmont are to be found white truffles, which 
are highly esteemed. They have a slight garlic 
flavour that does not detract from their perfection, 
because it leaves no unpleasant after-taste. 

The finest truffles of France come from P^rigord 
and from Upper Provence ; and it is about the month 
of January that they are in full flavour. 

Some truffles are also found at Bugey of a very 
fine quality, but they do not keep well. I made four 
attempts to get some for a few of my friends on the 
banks of the Seine, but only one was successful, and 
then they enjoyed them very much, and saw the 
merit of a difficulty overcome. 

The truffles of Burgundy and Dauphin^ are of 
inferior quality. They are hard, and deficient in 
flavour. So there are truffles and truffles, as there 
are " faggots and faggots." * 

To find the truffles trained dogs and hogs are 
generally used, but there are men whose eye is so 

* In Moliire'f Le Midecin Malgri lui (act i., sc 6). Sguiarelle 
wants to show that his faggots are better than those of auay other 
person, and ezclainis, " II y a fagou et fagots."— Tk. 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD. I33 

practised, that in looking over a piece of ground they 
can tell to a certainty whether it contains truf&es, and 
what their size and quality will be. 

Are Truffles Indigestible? 

It only remains for us to examine if truffles are 
indigestible. 

We deny it. 

This official decision is without appeal, and is 
based: 

i''. On the nature of the object examined. The 
truffle is easy to chew, light in weight, and is neither 
hard nor leathery. 

2°. On our personal observations, extending over 
a period of more than fifty years. During all this time 
we have never seen any eater of truffles suffer from 
indigestion. 

3®. On the certificates of the most celebrated 
physicians of Paris, a city to be admired for its many 
gourmands, who are especially fond of truffles. 

4*". On the daily practice of these self-same doctors, 
who, all things being equal, consume more truffles 
than any other class of persons. For example. Dr. 
Malouet used to swallow enough to give an indiges- 
tion to an elephant; yet nevertheless he lived till 
eighty-six. 

We may therefore regard as certain that truffles 
are both wholesome and agreeable, and, when taken 
in moderation, are easily digested. 

A man can become indisposed after a heavy 



134 MEDITATION VI. 

dinner, where, among other things, truffles have been 
eaten ; but such accidents only happen to those who, 
having stuffed themselves too much during the first 
course, cram in still more at the second course, and 
allow none of the good things to pass by which are 
offered them. 

Thus, it is not the fault of the truffles ; and one 
may be sure such people would have been worse if, 
under similar circumstances, they had swallowed, 
instead of truffles, the same quantity of potatoes. 

Let us conclude with an anecdote that will show 
how easy it is to be deceived when one does not 
observe anything carefully. 

One day I had invited M. Simonard to dine with 
me ; he was a very agreeable old man, and a first- 
rate gastronome. I knew his taste, and, to prove to 
all my guests that I wished them to enjoy themselves, 
I did not spare the truffles, so they appeared most 
carefully stuffed in a young hen-turkey. 

M. Simonard ate heartily ; and as I knew that up 
to that time he had not died of eating truffles, I left 
him alone, and only told him not to hurry himself, 
as nobody wished to infringe on the property he had 
acquired. 

Everything passed off very well, and the company 
went away rather late ; but when M. Simonard got 
home, he was seized with a violent pain in the 
stomach, felt inclined to discharge his food, coughed 
violently, and was in general very uncomfortable. 

This condition lasted some time, and produced 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD. l35 

some anxiety; everybody already believed that he 
suffered fix>m an indigestion caused by the truffles, 
when nature came to the assistance of the patient M. 
Simonard opened his big mouth, and eructated with 
a tremendous effort large bit of truffle, which struck 
the wall and rebounded with force, not without danger 
to those who were taking care of him. 

At the very moment all unpleasant symptoms dis- 
appeared ; tranquillity was restored, the digestive 
powers acted again, the patient went to sleep, and 
awoke the next morning perfectly well and without 
bearing me any grudge. 

The cause of the mischief was soon found out. 
M. Simonard had been eating for many years, so his 
teeth could no longer do the work which they ought 
to have done, for several of them were gone, and the 
remaining ones were not as firm as he could have 
wished them to be. 

In such a state of things, one truffle had not been 
masticated, and had almost whole gone down into 
the stomach ; the action of digestion had carried it 
towards the pylorus, where it had momentarily stuck ; 
this mechanical detention had caused all the mischief, 
and expulsion cured it. 

Thus, there had never been any indigestion, but 
merely the interposition of a foreign body. 

This was decided on by the consulting conmiittee, 
which saw the corpus delicti^ and selected me as its 
reporter. 

M. Simonard, nevertheless, is not a whit less fond 



136 MEDITATION VI. 

of truffles ; he still attacks them with the same bold- 
ness, but takes care to masticate them more carefully 
and to take heed to swallow them ; and he thanks 
Heaven, from the bottom of his heart, that this 
salutary precaution procures him^ prolongation of 
enjoyment 

45. — In the present state of science we imderstand 
by " sugar " a substance sweet to the taste, which 
can be crystallised, and by fermentation yields car- 
bonic acid and alcohol 

Formerly we understood by "sugar" the thick- 
ened and crystallised juice of the cane (Arundo 
saccharifera). 

This cane came from the Indies ; nevertheless, it 
is certain that the Romans did not know sugar as a 
common substance, and could not crystallise it. 

Some passages in ancient writers may well lead us 
to believe that it had been observed that from some 
reeds a sweet juice could be extracted. Thus Lucan 
says : 

Quiqtte bibuni tetter^ dulcts ab arundine succos. 

But between a sugar extracted from such canes 
and the sugar of modem times there is a great 
difference ; and in Rome science was not yet suffi- 
ciently advanced to manufacture the latter. It is in 
the colonies of the New World that sugar really 
originated. The sugar-cane was imported there 
about two centuries ago, and prospered. The sweet 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD. I37 

juice that flows from it was made use of, and after 
various attempts people succeeded in extracting from 
it cane -juice, molasses, raw sugar, loaf sugar, and 
refined sugar of various qualities. 

The culture of^the sugar-cane has become an 
object of the highest importance, for it is a source of 
riches both for those who cultivate it, for those who 
deal in its produce, for those who retail it, and finally 
for those governments who tax it. 

Indigenous Sugar. 

For a long while it was believed that a tropical 
heat was required to grow sugar. But about 1 740, 
MargrafT* discovered it in some plants of the tem- 
perate zone, and, amongst others, in the beet-root. 
The truth of this discovery was clearly demonstrated 
by the experiments made at Berlin by Professor 

Achardt 

At the conmiencement of the nineteenth centur}% 
circumstances having rendered sugar rare in France, 
and consequently very expensive, the government en- 
couraged scientific investigation into its manufacture. 

This encouragement met with abundant success ; 
for it became certain that sugar was widely dispersed 
throughout the vegetable kingdom; it was found in 
the grape, the chestnut, the potato, and especially in 
the beet-root 

* MargndBT (170^1789)1 a celebrated German chemist, bom at Berlin, 
who wrote nearly all his works in French. — Tr. 

t Achard (i 754-1821) was another well-known German chemist, who, 
though of French extraction, was also bom at Berlin. — Tk. 

S 



138 * MEDITATION VI. 

This last-mentioned plant was now extensively 
cultivated, and a mass of experiments were made 
which prove that the Old World, so far as sugar is 
concerned, might do without the New World. 
P'rance became covered with manufactories, which 
worked with various success. Sugar-making became 
naturalised ; and a new art was called into existence, 
which may some day become again useful to us. 

Among the various sugar manufactories, the most 
prominent was that established at Passy, near Paris, 
by M. Benjamin Delessert, a respectable citizen, 
whose name is always connected with everything 
that is good and useful.* 

In consequence of many well conducted experi- 
ments, he succeeded in freeing the manufactory of 
sugar from any uncertainty, made no secret of his dis- 
coveries even to those who might have been tempted 
to become his rivals, received the visit of the head of 
the government, and became manufacturer to the 
Court at the Tuileries. 

The course of events, the Restoration and Peace, t 
having reduced colonial sugar to a very low price, 
the manufacturers of beet-root sugar lost the greater 
part of their advantages. There are nevertheless 
still a few who prosper ; and M. Benjamin Delessert 
produces every year some thousands of pounds, on 

• Baron Benjamin Delessert (1773- 1847) ^*s on« of the originators of 
the savings banks in France, and took a great interest in the welfare of 
the working classes. — Tr. 

t This refers probably to the Treaty of Peace, signed May 13, 1E14, 
between England, France, Austria, Russia, and Prussia.— Tk. 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD. I39 

which he does not lose, and which furnish him with 
an opportunity for preserving the art of making it, to 
which at a future time it may be useful to have 
recourse.* 

When beet-root sugar was in the market, some 
men who had made up their minds, some men of 
routine, and some silly fellows, thought that it had an 
unpleasant taste, and a few even pretended that it 
was unhealthy. 

Careful and oft-repeated experiments have proved 
the contrary, and Count Chaptal f has inserted their 
results in his excellent work, << Chemistry Applied to 
Agriculture," volume II., page 13 (ist edition). 

"The sugars that are obtained from various plants," 
says this celebrated chemist, "are in fact all of the 
same nature, and are not different from one another 
if they are refined in the same manner. Taste, 



* At the general meeting of the " Society for the Encouragement of 
National Industry," a gold medal was giren to M. Crespel, a manu- 
facturer at Arras, who maJces each year more than 150,000 beet- 
root sugar loares, which he sells at a profit, even when cane sugar is 
as low as two francs twenty centimes the kilogramme. This may be 
accounted for by the fact that the refuse is sold for distillation, and 
subsequently used as food for cattle.— Brillat Savarin. The Pky- 
aUlogU du GSut was first published in i8a6i when beet-root sugar was 
yet in its infancy. At present (1884) the French and other foreign 
governments pay their sugar-manufacturers an export-bounty, to enable 
them to compete with colonial grown sugar, so that people in England 
buy beet-root sugar at threepence a pound, which is much cheaper than 
they could get it in foreign countries. — ^Tr. 

t Jean Chaptal (1756-1833), a celebrated French chemist, created 
a Count by Napoleon I., had been Director of Public Instruction for 
several years, when he was appointed Minister of the Interior, a post 
which he filled for more than four years. — Tr. 



14© MEDITATION VI. 

crystallisation, colour, specific gravity, are absolutely 
identical ; and therefore we challenge any man, how- 
ever experienced a judge or taster of these products, 
to distinguish between one another." 

We have a striking example of the force of pre- 
judice, and of the difficulty of establishing a fact, 
when we mention that out of a hundred British sub- 
jects taken indiscriminately, there are not ten who 
believe that sugar can be made from the beet-root.* 

Various Uses of Sugar. 

Sugar was introduced to the world by the apothe- 
caries. It must have played an important part with 
them, for if we wish to mention any one who is in 
need of something essential, we say of him, <* He is 
like an apothecary without sugar." 

It was sufficient for sugar to come from apothe- 
caries' shops to be received with disfavour. Some 
said that it was heating, others that it injured the 
chest, and a few that it predisposed to apoplexy. 
But calumny was obliged to flee before truth, and for 
more than eighty years the following remarkable adage 
has been enunciated : " Sugar only hurts the purse." 

Protected by this almost imcontrovertible aphorism, 
the use of sugar has become every day more common 
and more general, and no alimentary substance has 
undergone more combinations or more transforma- 
tions. 

Many persons like to eat sugar by itself, and in 

* This if no longer the case. See Translator's obserration, page 139. 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD. I4I 

some cases, chiefly the more desperate ones, the medical 
faculty has prescribed it under this form, as a remedy 
that can do no harm, and is at least not repulsive. 

Mixed with water, it gives eau sucr^e, a refreshing, 
wholesome, and pleasant drink, and sometimes bene- 
ficial as a remedy. 

Mixed in larger proportions with water, and con- 
centrated by fire, it produces syrups which can be 
impregnated with all sorts of flavours, and which 
present at all times refreshing beverages, pleasing to 
everybody by their variety. 

Mixed with water, from which the caloric has been 
extracted scientifically, it produces ices which are of 
Italian origin, and which seem to have been intro- 
duced in France by Catherine de Medici. 

Mixed with wine, it forms a cordial, a restorative 
so well known that in some countries the toast that 
is taken to young married people the first night of 
their wedding is soaked in it, just as in Persia, on a 
similar occasion, they bring to the newly-wedded couple 
sheep's trotters in vinegar. 

Mixed with fiour and eggs, it gives biscuits, 
macaroons, cracknels, sponge-cakes, and a quantity 
of light pastry, which constitutes the not very ancient 
art of the pastry cook and confectioner. 

Mixed with milk, it gives creams, blancmanges, 
and other culinary preparations that form so agree- 
able a termination to the second course, by sub- 
stituting for the substantial taste of the viands a 
flavour more refined and more ethereal 



142 MEDITATION VI. 

Mixed with coffee, it develops the flavour. 

Mixed with coffee and milk, it gives a light, agree- 
able food, easy to be obtained, and which is perfectly 
suited for those who leave the breakfast-table im- 
mediately to enter their study. Coffee with milk 
is also an especial favourite of the ladies, but the 
keen eye of science has discovered that its too fre- 
quent use might be hurtful to what they value most 
highly. 

Mixed with fruits and the essence of flowers, it 
produces jams, marmalades, preserves, pastes, and 
candied fruits, a process which enables us to enjoy 
the flavour of these fruits and flowers long after the 
time Nature has fixed as their limit Considered 
from this last point of view, sugar might perhaps be 
used with advantage in the art of embalming, which 
is as yet very little understood among us. 

Finally, sugar mixed with alcohol, gives spirituous 
liqueurs, invented, it is said, to stimulate the old 
age of Louis XIV., and which, forcibly laying hold 
of the palate as well as of the organs of smell 
by the flavour added to them, form at the present 
time the most perfect enjoyments of taste. 

The use of sugar is not limited to this alone. We 
may say that it is a universal condiment, and that it 
never spoils anything. Some use it with meat, some 
with vegetables, and often with fruit It is an essen- 
tial element in the most fashionable drinks, such as 
punch, negus, syllabub, and others of foreign origin ; 
and in its application it varies very much, as different 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD. 1 43 

nations and individuals modify it to suit their own 
tastes. 

Such is this substance which was hardly known 
even by name to Frenchmen at the time of Louis 
XIII., and which has become an article of the first 
necessity for those of the nineteenth century; for 
there is no housewife, especially among those well 
to do, who does not spend more money in sugar 
than she does in bread. 

M. Delacroix, an author whose works are as popular 
as they are numerous,* used to complain at Versailles 
about the price of sugar, which at that time cost more 
than five francs a pound. " Ah ! " he would say, in 
his gentle and tender way, '<if ever sugar should 
come to be sold at a shilling a pound, I would never 
drink water unless there was plenty of sugar in it" 
His prayers have been heard ; he is still alive, and I 
trust he has kept his word. 

§ IX,— 0/ Coffee. 
Origin op Coffee. 

46. — The first coffee tree was found in Arabia, 
and, in spite of the various transplantations that this 
shrub has undergone, the best coffee still comes from 
there. 

An ancient tradition states that coffee was dis- 

* Jacques-Vincent Delacroix (1743-1833) was a voluminous author 
and a celebrated lawyer. He was the editor of the Speciateur Fran- 
faist in which he defended Louis XVI., and attacked torture and many 
other legal abuses. He was for twenty-seven years a judge at the 
tribunal of Versailles. —Tr. 



144 MEDITATION VI. 

covered by a shepherd, who noticed that his flock 
was in a particular state of excitement and gaiety 
whenever they browsed on the berries of the coffee 
tree. Whatever may be thought off this old legend, 
only half of the honour of the discovery belongs to 
the shrewd goat-herd ; the other half unquestionably 
belongs to whoever first thought of roasting the coffee 
beans. 

Indeed, a decoction of raw coffee is a very insig- 
nificant drink ; but when it is carbonised, it develops 
an aroma and forms an oil which characterises coffee 
as we take it, and which would for ever and aye have 
remained unknown if heat had not been applied. 

The Turks, who are our masters in this particular, 
do not employ a mill for grinding coffee, but they 
crush it in wooden mortars and pestles ; and when 
these have been used for a long time they become 
costly, and are sold at a high price. 

It was my duty, in virtue of my office, to find out 
if there was really any difference between the two 
methods, and which of the two was preferable. 

Accordingly, I carefully roasted a pound of good 
Mocha ; I divided it into two equal portions, of 
which one was ground, and the other crushed in the 
Turkish manner. 

I made coffee with each of these powders. I took 
of each precisely the same quantity, poured upon it 
an equal quantity of boiling water, acting in every- 
thing exactly in the same way. 

I tasted this coffee, and caused it also to be tasted 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD. I45 

by several bigwigs. The unanimous verdict was that 
the coffee beaten in a mortar was undoubtedly superior 
to that made of the ground bean. 

Every one can repeat the experiment. Mean- 
while, I shall give a very singular example of the 
influence that one way or another of treating a 
certain substance can produce. 

''Sir," said Napoleon one day to the Senator 
Laplace,* ''how does it happen that a glass of 
water into which I melt a lump of loaf sugar seems 
much better than that into which I put the same 
quantity of crushed sugar ? " " Sire," answered the 
man of science, " there are three substances of which 
the principles are exactly the same, namely, sugar, 
gum, and starch; they only differ in certain con- 
ditions, of which Nature reserves to herself the 
secret ; I believe it to be possible that in the crush- 
ing with the pestle, some of the sugary particles may 
pass to a state of gum or of starch, and so cause the 
difference which exists in this case." 

This remark has become publicly known, and 
further observations have confirmed the first im- 
pression. 

Various Modes of Making Coffee. 

Some years since every one directed his attention 
at the same time to the best manner of making coffee, 

* Pierre Simon Laplace (x749-x8a7), a celebrated mathematician and 
natural philosopher, made a count by Napoleon I., and a marquis and 
peer by the Restoration, waa a man of great talent, but of a very 
servile character. 



146 MEDITATION VI. 

which was due, almost unwittingly, to the fact that 
the head of the government. Napoleon I., took it in 
large quantities. 

People proposed to make it without burning it, 
without reducing it to powder, to infuse it in cold 
water, to let it boil for three-quarters of an hour, to 
put it in a digester, and so forth. 

I have made all these experiments in my time, as 
well as those that have been proposed to this day, and, 
having a thorough knowledge of the matter, I decide 
in favour of the method called d ia Dubelloy, which 
consists in pouring boiling water on coffee placed in 
a porcelain or silver vase, pierced with very little 
holes. Then let this first decoction be heated again 
almost to a boiling point, let it be strained anew, 
and then you'll have a coffee as clear and as good as 
it is possible to get.* 

I tried, among various other methods, to make 
coffee in a coffee-pot, with high pressure ; but the 
result was a liquid full of extractive and bitter matters, 
good at the best to tickle the throat of a Cossack. 

Effects of Coffee. 

Doctors have pronounced various opinions on the 
sanitary properties of coffee, and do not always agree 
with each other. We shall take no part in this con- 
test, and only devote ourselves to that more im- 

* If M. Brillat-Savarin were alive now, he would find another and 
better method for making coffee— Tr. 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD. I47 

portant point — ^What is its influence on the organs 
of thought ? 

It is beyond doubt that coffee greatly excites the 
functions of the brain. Thus any one who drinks it 
for the first time is sure to be deprived of a part of 
his sleep. 

Sometimes this effect is mitigated or modified by 
habit ; but there are many individuals who never can 
take it without getting excited, and who consequently 
are obliged to give up drinking coffee. 

I have said that this effect was mitigated by cus- 
tom, but this does not prevent its being produced in 
another manner ; for I have observed that persons 
who can take coffee with impunity and yet sleep dur- 
ing the night, are obliged to take it in order to keep 
awake during the day, and always {ah asleep during 
the evening when they have not taken any after 
dinner. 

There are several other persons who are sleepy 
all day if they do not take their habitual cup of 
coffee in the morning. 

Voltaire and Buffon drank a great deal of coffee ; 
perhaps it is to this custom that we may ascribe the 
admirable lucidity which is found in the works of the 
former, as well as the harmony and enthusiasm which 
pervade the style of the latter. Several pages of the 
latter on man, on the dog, the tiger, the lion, and the 
horse, were evidently written in a state of extraordinary 
cerebral excitement. 

The sleeplessness produced by coffee is not pain- 



148 MEDITATION VI. 

ful : one has very clear mental perceptions, and no 
desire for sleep ; that is all. There is no agitation or 
feeling of unhappiness as when sleeplessness proceeds 
from any other cause, and yet this artificial excitement 
may in the long run become very injurious. 

Formerly only persons of more or less mature age 
took coffee ; but now ever>' one drinks it, and perhaps 
it is owing to this stimulus of the mind that a great 
number of people are set in motion, and besiege 
all the avenues of Olympus and of the Temple of 
Memory. 

The cobbler who wrote the tragedy of the " Queen 
of Palmyra," which all Parisians heard him read a 
few years ago, drank a great deal of coffee ; for this 
reason he rose higher than the "joiner of Nevers," 
who was a mere drunkard.* 

Coffee is a drink far more powerful than people 
commonly think. A man of good constitution may 
drink two bottles of wine every day ahd live a long 
time, but that same man would not stand the same 
quantity of coffee so long ; he would become an idiot 
or die of consumption. 

I have seen in London, in Leicester Square, a 
man whom the immoderate use of coffee had reduced 
to the state of a helpless cripple ; he no longer suffered 
any pain, had become accustomed to his condition, 
and limited himself to five or six cups of coffee a day. 

Every father and every mother should strictly forbid 

* The names of the literary cobbler and joiner have not come down 
to posterity.— Tr. 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD. 1 49 

their children to take any coffee, unless they wish to 
see them shrivelled up, puny, and withered little 
things before they are twenty years old. This ad- 
vice should be of especial use to Parisians, whose 
children are not always as strong and healthy as 
those who are bom in certain departments, that of 
the Ain, for example. 

I am one of those who have been obliged to give 
up the use of coffee, and I shall finish this section 
by relating how I was one day completely under its 
influence. * 

One day the Duke of Massa,* then Minister of 
Justice, asked me to do some important work for 
him, for which he gave me very little time, as he 
wished to have it early the next morning. 

I made up my mind to sit up all night, and, in 
order not to fall asleep, I drank after dinner two 
large cups of nicely-smelling strong coffee. 

On returning home at seven o'clock, expecting to 
find the necessary papers, I only found a letter to 
say that, on account of some official formality, I 
could not receive them until next day. 

Thus disappointed in every respect, I went back 
to the house where I had dined and played a game 
of piquet, without feeling so absent-minded as I 
usually feel « 

I attributed this to the coffee ; but while profiting 

* C. A. Regnier (x 736-18 X4X a celebrated lawyer, was created by 
Napoleon I., in 1809, Duke of Massa, and became Minister and Presi- 
dent of the leg^islative body one year before his death, when the scene 
described by Brillat-Savarin probably took place. — Tr. 



150 MEDITATION VI. 

by it I was not without some uneasiness as to how I 
should pass the night. 

However, I went to bed at my usual hour, thinking 
that if I did not pass a very good night, I should at 
least have four or five hours sleep, which would 
gradually bring me to the next morning. 

I was mistaken. After being two hours in bed I 
felt more v^ide-awake than ever ; I was in a very 
lively state of mental excitation, and I pictured to 
myself my brain as a mill of which the wheels were 
constantly going w^ith*out having anything to grind. 

I felt I might utilise this disposition as I could not 
compose myself to sleep, and I occupied myself in 
making a poetical version of a little tale I had 
recently read in an English book. 

I did this pretty easily, but as sleep came no 
nearer I began a second one, but in vain. A dozen 
verses exhausted my poetic vein, and I had to give 
up the attempt. 

I therefore passed the night without sleeping, and 
without even feeling sleepy for a single moment ; I 
arose next morning and passed the whole day in 
the same state, without any change being produced 
either by my meals or by my occupations. Finally, 
on retiring to rest the second day at my accustomed 
l^ur, I calculated that I had been forty hours without 
closing my eyes. 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD. I51 

§ X,—0/ Chocolate. 
Origin of Chocolate. 

47. — The first settlers in America were impelled 
by the lust of gold. At that epoch, almost the only 
things of any value that were appreciated were 
mineral products. Agriculture and commerce were 
in their infancy, and political economy was as yet un- 
known. The Spaniards found there precious metals ; 
now an almost worthless discovery, inasmuch as 
they diminish in value by becoming more abundant, 
and because we possess far more powerful means for 
increasing the mass of our riches. 

These countries, where a very warm sun produces 
in the ground an extreme fecundity, have been 
found suited for the cultivation of sugar and coffee ; 
other real treasures, such as the potato, indigo, 
vanilla, cinchona, cocoa, have also been discovered 
there. 

If these discoveries have taken place in spite of 
the barriers that a jealous nation has erected to pre- 
vent inquiries, we may reasonably hope that they will 
be tenfold increased during the following years, and 
that the researches of the scientific men of old 
Europe in so many unexplored countries will enrich 
the three kingdoms of Nature with a great many 
substances which will procure us new sensations, as 
the vanilla bean has done, or will increase our 
alimentary resources, as the cacao bean has done. 



\ 



152 MEDITATION VI. 

When the cacao bean has been roasted, is mixed 
with sugar and flavoured with cinnamon, it is techni- 
cally called "chocolate." Sugar forms an essential 
part of it, for, mixed with cacao beans alone, it is 
called " cocoa " and not chocolate. When, to sugar, 
to cinnamon, and to cocoa, the delicious aroma of 
vanilla is added, we obtain the highest state of 
perfection of this preparation. 

It is to this small number of substances that 
taste and experience reduce the numerous in- 
gredients which have been attempted to be mixed 
with cocoa, such as pepper, allspice, aniseed, ginger, 
and many others which have been tried in suc- 
cession. > 

The cacao tree is indigenous to South America, 
being found both in the islands and on the continent. 
But it is now generally admitted that the best beans 
are produced by the trees growing on the shores of 
the Maracaybo, in the valleys of Caraccas, and in 
the rich province of Soconusco.* Their beans are 
larger, their juice less acrid, and their aroma more 
developed. Since these countries have become more 
accessible, comparisons have been made every day, 
and people who are accustomed to use it are no 
longer deceived. 

The Spanish ladies of the New World are pas- 

* Maracaybo is now called San Carlos, a city in Venezuela, the capital 
of the State of Zulia. The Uke oT Maracaybo, a hundred miles longi 
communicates by a long channel with the gulf of the same name, ao 
inlet of the Caribbean Sea. Caraccas is the capital of the South Ameri- 
can Republic Venenieb, and Soconusco it a district of Central Amertca. 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD. I53 

sionately fond of chocolate ; and not satisfied with 
taking it several times a day, they even have brought 
it to church. This indulgence has often brought on 
them the censure of their bishops, who at last shut 
their eyes to it. The Spanish casuist, Escobar y 
Mendoza,* whose metaphysic was as subtle as his 
morals were acconunodating, declares formally that 
chocolate with water does not break a fast, stretching 
thus for the use of his fair penitents the old adage : 
Liquidum non frangit jejunium. 

Chocolate was introduced into Spain about the 
seventeenth century ; and it became at once popular, 
as the ladies, and especially the monks, strongly 
patronised this aromatic beverage. Manners have not 
changed in this respect, and even at the present day, 
on all occasions when it is considered polite to hand 
some refreshment, chocolate is offered to guests in 
Spain. 

Chocolate crossed the Pyrenees with Anne of 
Austria,t daughter of Philip III., king of Spain, J and 
wife of Louis XIII. § Spanish monks also made it 
known by giving it as a present to their brethren in 
France. The various Spanish ambassadors con- 
tributed to make it fashionable, and at the com- 
mencement of the Regency |{ it was more universally 
in use than coffee, because it was then dnmk as an 

* Antonio Escobar y Mendoza (i 589-1669), a Spanish casuist and 
Jesuit, an orator and author of more than forty volumes, is chiefly 
known by the maxim, "Good intentions justify actions considered 
biameable by morality and human laws." — Tr. 

t x6o9-x666. X 1578-1621. I 1601-1643. II X715-1723. 

U 




154 MEDITATION VI. 

jtj;r«.ible nourishment, whilst coffee was as yet merely 
o.insidered a drink of luxury and curiosity. 

Linn.vus named the cacao. Cacao Iheobroma, or 
"divine food." Some people have endeavoured to 
find out the reason for this emphatic qualification, 
«hii-h some attribute to the learned man's excessive 
lt<ndness for chocolate, others to his desire to please 
his pastor, and others again to his gallantry because 
a queen was the first to introduce it 



Chocolate has been the cause of some very scien- 
tific dissertations of which the object was to determine 
its nature and its properties, and to place it in the 
category of either hot, cold, or temperate foods ; but 
wt must own that all these learned writings have 
seri-ed but little the promulgation of truth. 

However, time and experience, these two great 
masters, have proved that chocolate, when property 
prepared, is a food as wholesome as it is agreeable ; 
that it is nourishing, easily digested, and has not those 
inconveniences for the fair sex which are ascribed 
to coffee, and to which it is, on the coniraiy, an anti- 
dote ; that it is most suitable for persons who have 
much brain work to do, such as clerg>men and law- 
yers, and especially for travellers j in short, that it 
suits the weakest stomachs ; has produced some 
beneficial results in chronic diseases, and is the last 
resource in affections of the pylorus. 

Chocolate owes these various properties to its being 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD. X55 

nothing but elaosaccharum^ so that there are few 
other substances which contain in the same dimen- 
sions more nutrition or more alimentary particles, in 
such a manner that nearly everything can be assimi- 
lated. 

During the late wars (1793-1815) cacao was rare, 
and above all very dear. People tried to find sub- 
stitutes, but every effort was in vain. One of the 
blessings of peace has been to rid us of all those 
brews that we were forced to taste, out of politeness, 
and which were no more like chocolate than an infu- 
sion of chicory is like that of the Mocha bean. 

Some persons complain that they cannot digest 
chocolate ; others, on the contrary, pretend that it 
does not nourish them enough, and that it digests 
too quickly. 

It is very probable that the first have only them- 
selves to blame, and that the chocolate they use is 
of an inferior quality or badly made ; because good 
and well-made chocolate ought to agree with every 
stomach that has still some digestive power left 

As for the others, the remedy is easy. They 
should eat a heavier breakfast and take a slice of a 
meat-pie, a chop, or a broiled kidney ; let them 
then drink a good bowl of Soconusco chocolate, and 
thank Heaven for having given them a stomach of 
superior activity. 

ril take the opportunity of making a remark, of 
which the correctness may be relied on. 

If any*one, after having breakfasted well, amply 



1 

I 



156 MEDITATION VI. 

and copiously, drinks a large cup of good chocolate, 
everything will have perfectly digested three hours 
afterwards, and one will be able to dine notwithstand- 
ing. . . . For science' sake and by dint of eloquence, 
I induced several ladies to try this experiment, who one 
and all assured me that it would make them ill. They 
always felt themselves the better for it, and were loud 
in their praises of the professor. 

Persons who take chocolate commonly enjoy pretty 
good health, and are less subject than other people to 
many trifling complaints which make life miserable ; 
they also do not increase in corpulence. These two 
observations any man can make among his acquaint- 
ances whose manner of living is well known. 

I ought here to speak of the properties of chocolate, 
d Pambrey which I have tested by a great many 
experiments, the result of which I am delighted to 
bring before my readers.* 

Let, then, every man who has indulged too deeply 
of the cup of pleasure ; every man who has devoted 
to work a considerable part of the time which he 
ought to have employed in sleep ; every man of in- 
telligence who feels his faculties temporarily dulled ; 
every one who finds the air damp, time hanging 
heavily on his hands, and the weather unendurable ; 
every man who is tormented by a fixed idea which 
deprives him of the liberty of thinking ; — let all such 
people, we say, indulge in a pint at least of chocolate 
mixed with amber, in the proportion of from sixty 

• Sec the chapter *' Varieties/' X. B. 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD. I57 

to seventy-two grains to the half kilogramme, and 
they will see wonders. 

In my particular way of distinguishing things, I 
have called chocolate with amber the " chocolate for 
the afflicted," because in each of those cases I have 
mentioned, persons experience some sentiment that is 
common to them all, and which resembles affliction. 

Difficulties in Making Good Chocolate. 

In Spain they have very good chocolate, but people 
are scarcely disposed to send such a distance for it, 
for all persons are not equally clever in making it ; 
moreover, when they have received from Spain an 
inferior quality they are obliged to drink it as it is. 

Italian chocolates do not suit the French palate; 
the bean is generally too much burnt, which gives the 
chocolate a bitter taste and makes it less nutritious, 
because a part of the bean has been reduced to 
carbon. 

The use of chocolate has become quite common in 
France, and everybody thinks they can make it ; but 
very few have arrived at perfection, as the art is far 
from being an easy one. 

In the first place, it is necessary to recognise good 
cocoa and to be willing to use it in all its purity, for 
even in a box of the best sort inferior samples 
may be found, and a manufacturer who does not 
understand his own interest, often allows damaged 
beans to be put in that should have been rejected, 
if he really wished to produce a superior article. 



l6o MEDITATION VL 

analeptic chocolate with salop; to those who have 
delicate nerves, antispasmodic chocolate mixed with 
orange - flower water ; to irritable temperaments, 
chocolate mixed with almond milk ; to which he will 
undoubtedly add the ''chocolate of the afflicted," 
d Pambrej and prepared scientifically. 

But his principal merit is above all, that for a 
moderate price we can obtain an excellent chocolate 
for daily use, which in the morning is to us suffi- 
cient as breakfast, which at dinner pleases us in 
creams, and at the end of the evening rejoices us 
anew in ices, "croquettes," and other delicacies, 
without counting the agreeable amusement of pas- 
tiles or crackers, with or without mottoes. 

We only know M. Debauve by his preparations. 
We have never seen him ; but we are aware that he 
most powerfully contributes to free France from the 
tribute she formeriy paid to Spain, in providing for 
Paris and the provinces a chocolate of which the 
reputation increases continually. W^e also know 
that he receives every day fresh orders from 
foreign countries ; it is, therefore, for this reason, 
and as one of the men who founded the Society for 
the Encouragement of National Industr)', that we 
speak of him here with approval, and bestow on him 
that praise of which it will be seen that we are not 
too lavish.* 

* M. Brillai-Savarin sang the praive^ of M. Dsbauve in 1825. This 

firm still exii»t% at least we find its name in the Paris Directory 

(Hottin) for this year (i884>, C!ktabli!»hcd in the same street it uas in 

'in 18^5, but at No. 30. Many other manufactories of excellent 



SPECIAL KINDS OF FOOD. 1*6 1 



The Best Way of Making Chocolate. 

The Americans prepare their cocoa paste without 
sugar. When they wish to take chocolate they have 
some boiling water brought ; each one scrapes into 
his cup as much cacao as he likes, pours hot water 
on it, and adds sugar and spices just as it suits 
him. 

This way of making chocolate neither agrees with 
our manners nor with our tastes, and we like our choco* 
late manu&ctured for consumption. 

Thus prepared, transcendental chemistry teaches us 
that chocolate should not be scraped with a knife or 
bruised with a pestle, because the dry friction which 
takes place in both these cases converts some portions 
of the sugar into starch, and renders this beverage 
more insipid. 

Thus, to make chocolate, that is to say, to render 
it fit for immediate consumption, about one ounce 
and a half should be taken for each cup, which 
should be dissolved gradually in water, as it gets 
hotter, stirring it all the while with a wooden spa- 
tula. Then let it boil for a quarter of an hour 
until the solution becomes thick, and serve it up 
quite hot 

More than fifty years ago Madame d'Arestrel, 
Superior of the Convent of the Visitation at Belley, 
said to me : " Sir, when you wish to have good choco- 

chocolate have sprung up in England, France, and other countries 
since that time.— Tr. 

X 



i4a iCK.rTATWJii tl. 

bxe, get it sadt vtmrdi:'-: a 

z^.^T'f.t^ -U Ttjt ^'XjC Old ci 



be --.StSiiijii U 'iij tr-.r.. 



■. fcr Ke H:=i<J 3 





MEDITATION VII. 

THEORY OF FRYING. 



48. — It was a beautiful day in the montli of 
May ; the sun shed its most pleasant rays on 
the smoky roofs of the City of Pleasure, and 
the streets, for a wonder, showed neither mud nor 
dust 

The heavy "diligences" had for a long time 
ceased to shake the streets, the huge rubbish-carts 
were at rest, and only open carriages were to be 
seen, ftill of indigenous and exotic fair ladies, shaded 
under most elegant hats, and casting disdainM looks 
on the pitiflil creatures who passed, and coquettish 
glances on the good-looking young men. 



1 64 MEDITATION VIL 

It was about three o'clock in the afternoon when 
the professor sat down in his arm-chair to meditate. 

His right leg rested vertically on the floor, his left 
stretched diagonally across it ; he had his back com- 
fortably supported, and his hands rested on the lion's 
heads which terminate the arms of this venerable 
piece of furniture. 

His lofty brow indicated a love for serious studies, 
and his mouth a taste for agreeable recreation. His 
air was collected, and his attitude such that any person 
who could have seen him would have exclaimed: "This 
man of ancient days must be a sage 1 " 

When thus settled, the professor sent for his head 
cook, and immediately that servitor arrived, ready to 
receive advice, lessons, or orders. 

Allocution. 

" Well, M. La Planche ! " said the professor with 
that grave tone which penetrates to the very bottom 
of one's heart, "every one who dines at my table 
proclaims you a soup-maker of the first class. This 
is very well, for soup is the first consolation of a 
hungry stomach ; but I am sorry to see that you 
are uncertain as a * fryer.' 

" I heard you yesterday groan when that magni- 
ficent sole was served up to us, pale, flabby, and 
discoloured. My friend Revenaz* threw on you a 

* Alexis Revenaz, born at Seisset, in the district of Belley, about 
X757. An elector of the grand college, we may propose his career to 
any one as an example of prudent conduct, joined to inflexible probity. 



THEORY OF FRYING. 165 

glance of disapproval; M. Henri Roux turned his 
gnomonic nose to the west, and President Sibuet 
deplored this failure as a public calamity. 

"This misfortune has befallen you because you 
neglected a theory of which you do not feel the full 
importance. You are a little obstinate, and I have 
had some difficulty in making you understand that 
all the operations of your laboratory are naught but 
the execution of the eternal laws of nature, and that 
certain things that you do without attention, and 
merely because you have seen others do them, can 
nevertheless be traced to the highest abstractions of 
science. 

** Listen then to me attentively, and learn, so that 
you may not have again to blush for your work- 
manship. 

§ I. — Chemistry. 

" The liquids that you expose to the action of fire 
cannot all be charged with the same quantity of heat ; 
nature has given them all various properties ; this is 
an order of things of which nature alone has the 
secret, and which is called ' capacity for caloric' 

" Thus you might with impunity dip your finger in 
boiling spirits of wine, but you would take it out 
quickly enough from boiling brandy, and quicker 
still if it were water, whilst a hasty immersion in 
boiling oil would hurt you cruelly, as the capacity of 
oil for heat is at least three times that of water. 

"It is in consequence of this disposition that we 



1 66 MEDITATION VII. 

see that hot liquids act in a different manner on the 
sapid substances that are plunged in them. Those 
which we treat by water are softened, dissolve and 
are reduced to rags ; and soup or extracts are thus 
made. Those, on the contrary, which are treated 
with oil become contracted, are coloured in a more 
or less deep manner, and finally are carbonised. 

" In the former case, water dissolves and draws out 
the interior juices of the alimentary substances placed 
in it ; in the second case, these juices are preserved, 
because oil cannot dissolve them ; and if these sub- 
stances dry up, it is because a continuous heat 
vaporises the humid parts. 

" The two methods have different names, and boil- 
ing in oil or grease substances intended to be eaten, is 
called * frying.' I think I have told you already that 
oil or fat, from a culinary point of view, are almost 
synonymous words, fat being merely a concrete oil, 
or oil a liquid fat. 

§ II. — Application, 

*< Fried foods are always welcome in entertainments ; 
they introduce a pleasing variety, they are agreeable 
to look at, they keep their original savour, and can 
be eaten by the hand, which always pleases ladies. 

" Frying also gives to cooks a number of means to 
conceal what has appeared the day before, and at a 
pinch is an aid for unexpected demands, for it takes 
not much more time to fry a four-pound carp than 
to boil an ^%%. 



THEORY OF FRYING, 167 

" All the merit of a good fiy is derived from the 
* surprise ;' thus they term the invasion of the boil- 
ing liquid which at the very instant of the inmiersion 
carbonises or browns the external surface of the body 
placed in it 

" By means of the * surprise ' a sort of vault is 
formed which encloses the substance, prevents the 
fat from reaching it, and concentrates the juices, 
which thus undergo a kind of interior boiling that 
gives to the food all the taste of which it is suscep- 
tible. 

"In order that the * surprise ' may take place, the 
boiling liquid should have acquired heat enough for 
its action to be sharp and instantaneous ; but it only 
reaches that point when it has been a considerable 
time on a brisk and blazing fire. 

"We know by the following method if the frying 
matter is sufficiently hot : we cut a long and narrow 
slice of bread, and put it in the frying-pan for five 
or six seconds ; if, when it is withdrawn, it is firm 
and brownish, immerse at once whatever you want 
to fry ; if not, you must put on more fire, and try 
again. 

" The * surprise ' once eflfected, moderate the fire, 
so that the heat be not too quick, and in order that 
the juices you have enclosed may undergo by means 
of a more prolonged warmth the alteration which 
unites them and improves their taste. 

" You have without doubt observed that the surface 
of well-fried objects cannot dissolve either salt or 



1 63 MEDITATIOX VOL 



sugar, which they mar nercnhclcss Tittd arrcrding 
to their respective narrzes. ThuSr yoc will not £iil 
to reduce these two scbstai^ces in:o vtry tne powder, 
in order that they may adhere very easily, so that 
«ith a dredge the fry may be seasoned by juxta- 
position. 

*' I say nothing aboot choosing oils and £2lis ; be- 
cause the i-arious cookery books which I Lave put 
in your library will give yoa sufficient information on 
that head. 

*• Nevertheless, do not forget when you get one of 
those trouts which scarcely weigh more than a quarter 
of a pound, and which are fetched from brooks of 
running water that murmur far from the capital, do 
not forget, I beg you, to fry these in the ver>' finest 
olive oil you have. This dish, so simple, properly 
sprinkled and served up with slices of lemon, is worthy 
to be offered to a cardinal* 

" Treat in exactly the same way smelts, of which 
adepts think so much. The smelt is among fishes 
what the beccafico is amongst birds. It is the same 
in size, the same in flavour, and the same in excel- 
lence. 

* M. Aniissio, a NeapoHtao lawyer, a very well'informed man and a 
Yery fair amateur violoncc.lo player, dining one day with me, and eating 
something that was quite to his taste, exclaimed : ^Questo i un vrrv 
hoccofu di cardinaU I " " Why," I replied in the same Iangua;;e, " don't 
you say as we say, 'fit f'^ a king'?" "My dear sir," answered the 
amateur, ** we Italians think that kings cannot be gonrmamis, because 
their meals are too hurried and txxi formal; but the cardinals — ah!" 
and with that ulighi chuckle which is peculiar to him, " Hon hou I hon 
hou I hou hou I " 



THEORY OF FRYING. 169 

■< These two prescriptions are founded on the veiy 
nature of things. Experience has taught us that we 
ought only to use olive oil for frying that must be 
quickly done, or that does not require a great heat, 
because prolonged heat develops an empyreumaiic 
and disagreeable taste, produced by some parts of 
the parenchyma, of which it is difficult to get rid, and 
which become carbonised, 

"You have the charge of my lower regions, and you 
were the first person who had the glory of presenting 
to an astonished and surprised universe a huge turbot 
frieiL That day there was, among the elect, great 
jubilation. 

" Go, continue to bestow pains on whatever you 
attempt, never foi^etiing that from the moment the 
guests have put their feet in my drawing-room, it is 
we who are responsible for their happiness." 





MEDITATION VIII. 

OF THIRST. 



49. — Thirst is the internal feeling of the desire 
to drink. 

A heat of about 104 degrees Fahrenheit constantly 
vapourising the different fluids of which the circula- 
tion keeps up life, the loss which results from this 
would soon have made these fluids unfit to fiilfil their 
destiny if they were not often renewed and refreshed : 
this desire causes us to experience thirsL 

We believe that the seat of the feeling of thirst is 
in the whole of the digestive system. When any one 
is thirsty, as we have often been when out shooting, 
there is a well-delined feeling that all the inhaling 



OF THIRST. 171 

portions of the mouth, the gullet, and the stomach 
are parched up and cauterised ; and if sometimes we 
appease thirst by the application of liquid elsewhere 
than to these organs, as, for example, by a bath, it 
is because as soon as they are immediately introduced 
into the circulation, they are drawn rapidly to the 
seat of evil, and become remedies. 

Different Varieties of Thirst 

Looking at the subject in all its bearings, we may 
descry three varieties of thirst ; latent, factitious, and 
burning. 

Latent or habitual thirst is the insensible equili- 
brium which is established between transpiratory 
vaporisation and the necessity of supplying what is 
lost It is this which, although we experience no 
pain, invites us to drink while we eat, and enables us 
to drink at nearly every minute of the day. This 
thirst always accompanies us, and forms to some 
extent a part of our existence. 

Factitious thirst, which is peculiar to the human 
species, is derived from that innate instinct that in- 
duces us to seek in liquids a force that Nature has 
not placed there, and which is only arrived at by 
fermentation. It constitutes an artificial enjoyment 
rather than a natural desire. This thirst is in reality 
unextinguishable, inasmuch as the liquids that are 
taken to appease it have the invariable faculty of 
reviving it This thirst, which ends by becom- 
ing habitual, makes drunkards in all countries ; it 



lr^ iminTATi'jy v::l 



i 



iia;*j/ens aimos: ajwa}-s tiia* tht desirt tr drink onh" 
<-eiij»efc vbec liquor fi^lii bL'.»r« or "i^iier the drinker 
ifc 5»o eniirei}- fmibiied up that be is cain;iiett:}y dii- 
a'jjtKL 

When, on tlie other hand- thirs: is orZ'y appeased 
by cold water, which appears to be its natural anti- 
dote, a mouuiful more than i»'ha: is acmaljv necessarr 
it never drunk. 

burning thirst is that 'which is caused by the 
au>^;nieniaiion of the desire and b}' the impossrbiiinr 
*A satjsfx'ing latent thirst- 
It is calied ''burning'* because h is accompanied 
by beat of tiie tongue, dn-nebs of the palate, and 
extreme beat in the whole body. 

Tije sensation of tl^irst is so keen that the word is 
used, in nearly e> en- language, to express an cxcessiAT 
iofiging arid an eager desire. Thus, there is a thirst 
for igold, for ri'.hes, power, vengeance, etc, expres- 
sions i»h;ch i»ould ne>er have obtained currencv if 
any one who l^d once been ll^irsty did not feel the 
corre<tnesi of tl.ls appiication. 

Appetite is ace on, parried b)' a sensation "which is 
pleasant so long as it d'xrs not become hunger ; thirst 
hias no mecjum, and the moment when it is felt there 
ib uneasiness and anxiety ; and this anxiet)- becomes 
terrible when there is no exj>ectation of quenching 
one's lliirbl- 

hy a just comj>ensation, drinking may, under cer- 
tain circumstances, pr^x.ure us ver)- keen enjo)-ments ; 
tliub, when we quench extreme tl^irsi, or when we arc 



OF THIRST. 173 

moderately thirsty and imbibe a delicious beverage, 
the whole papillary system is aroused from the top 
of the tongue to the depth of the stomach. 

We die much more quickly of thirst than of 
hunger. There are examples of men who have lived 
for eight days without eating bread, because they 
drank water,* whilst those who are absolutely de- 
prived of anything to drink never pass the fifth day. 

The reason of this difference is, that the latter die 
simply of exhaustion and weakness, whilst the former 
are seized by a fever that bums them up, and that 
always keeps increasing in its violence. 

People are not even always able to resist thirst for 
a comparatively short time. Thus, in 1789, one of the 
Swiss body-guard of Louis XVI. died from remaining 
only twenty-four hours without liquids. 

He had been drinking with some of his comrades, 
and one of them blamed him for emptying his glass 
oflener than the others, and said he could not do for 
a single moment without drinking. 

He then laid a wager of ten bottles of wine that 
he would remain for twenty-four hours without drink- 
ing anything. 

From that moment the soldier ceased to drink, 
though he remained for more than two hours before 
going away and saw his conu-ades drink. 

The night passed quietly, as we may imagine ; 

* We have improved bn this since our author wrote. It is said that 
Dr. Tanner in the United States lived without food and only on water 
for more than forty days* — Ta. 



174 MEDITATION VIIL 

but at daybreak he found it rather hard to do with- 
out his usual small glass of brandy. 

Throughout the forenoon he was weary and rest- 
less ; he rose and sat down again without any 
purpose, and seemed not to know what he was 
about 

About one o'clock he lay down, fancying he would 
be more calm ; he felt in pain and was really ill, but 
those about him in vain tried to induce him to drink 
something ; he declared he could get on quite well 
till evening. He wished to win his wager, and it is 
probable that some soldierly pride also prevented 
him from giving way to pain. 

He kept up in this way until seven o'clock ; but at 
half-past seven he found himself getting worse, be- 
came moribund, and died without being able to taste 
a glass of wine which was offered him. 

All these details were told me that very evening 
by M. Schneider, a fifer in the company of the Swiss 
bodyguard, at whose house I lived when in Ver- 
sailles. 

Causes of Thirst, 

50. — Many circumstances united or separated con- 
tribute to increase thirst We shall indicate a few, 
which have not been without influence on our 
usages. 

Heat increases thirst ; hence the inclination men 
always have to go and live in hot weather on the 
banks of rivers. 

Bodily exertion increases thirst ; thus, when a 



OF THIRST. 175 

proprietor employs workmen he always provides for 
them some drink; hence the proverb: "The wine 
which is given to the labonrett always fetches the 
best price." 

Dancing increases thirst; for this reason there 
always are in ball-rooms plenty of invigorating or 
refreshing drinks. 

Public speaking increases thirst ; hence the glass 
of water that lecturers study to drink with grace, and 
which we shall soon see on the edge of each pulpit, 
side by side with the white handkerchief.* 

Genetic pleasure increases thirst ; hence the poeti- 
cal descriptions of Cyprus, Amathonte, Gnidos, and 
other places inhabited by Venus, where we always 
find cooling shades and brooks which wind along, 
flow, and babble. 

Singing increases thirst; this accounts for the 
universal reputation all musicians have of being in- 
defatigable drinkers. A musician myself, I oppose 
this prejudiced statement, which is at the present 
time as devoid of wit as of truth. 

The artists who frequent oiu* drawing-rooms are 
discreet and careful in what they take to drink ; but 
what they have lost in one way they gain in another ; 
and if they no longer love the cup, they are such 
superhuman gourmands that I have been told the 
celebration of the feast of St Cecilia lasted for more 

* Canon Delestra, a very agreeable preacher, never failed to swallow 
a candied walnut whenever he made a pause between each point of his 
discourse, so that his audience might then, if they choMt cough, expec* 
toratCf or blow their noses. 



176 MEDITATION VIII. 

than twenty hours at the Club of Transcendental 
Harmony. 

Example, 

51. — Exposure to a rapid current of air is a very 
active cause of an increase of thirst, and I think that 
the following incident will be read with pleasure, espe- 
cially by sportsmen. 

We know that quails take a great delight in dwell- 
ing on the loftiest hills, where their broods may be 
more easily hatched, because the harvest is gathered 
much later there. 

When the rye is cut they migrate to the barley 
and oats ; and when these are garnered, they go into 
those parts where the less ripe com stands. 

It is then the time to shoot them, because a small 
number of acres of land abound with quails, which a 
month previously were flying about over the whole 
parish ; moreover, as the season is drawing to an 
end, they are as large and fat as can be desired. 

It is for the purpose of shooting quails that I found 
myself one day with some friends on a hill in the 
arrondissement of Nantua,* in the canton known 
under the name of " Plan d*Hotonne," and we were 
just beginning to shoot on one of the finest days of 
the month of September, illumed by a brilliant sun- 
shine unknown to Cockneys, t 

* A small town in the department of the Ain. — ^Tr. 
t A name given to those inhabitants of London who never left their 
native city. It is equivalent to the French badaudi. 



OF THIRST, T ijf 

Whilst we were breakfasting a very violent nor- 
therly wind sprang up, which was rather against our 
pleasures, but did not prevent our starting. 

We had scarcely been shooting for a quarter of 
an hour when the weakest man of our party said he 
was thirsty ; we should doubtless have made fun of 
him, but we all felt the same sensation. 

We all took a drink, for a donkey laden with 
refreshments followed us, but the relief offered was 
of brief duration. Our thirst came quickly back 
again, and that so violently, that some of us thought 
we were ill, and others ready to become so. Every 
one talked of going back, which would have given us 
a walk of ten leagues to no purpose. 

I had had time to collect my ideas, and I dis- 
covered the reason of this strange thirst I told my 
companions that we suffered from the effects of four 
causes : the notable diminution of the column of air 
which weighed on our body, and which rendered the 
circulation more rapid ; the action of the sun, which 
warmed us directly ; walking, that increased perspira- 
tion ; and more than all this, the action of the wind, 
which, piercing us through and through, removed all 
perspiration and fluid, and prevented all moisture of 
our skin. 

I added that, taking all in all, there was no danger ; 

that the enemy being known, it was necessary to 

combat him ; and that he could make no advance 

if we were to take something to drink every half 

hour. 

z 



1^8 MEDITATXON Till. 

The precaution was nevertheless insufficient, as 
our thirst was not to be quenched. Water, brandy, 
wine and water, and brandy and water, were tiot of 
the slightest use ; we were thirsty even while drink- 
ing, and we were uncomfortable throughout the whole 

day. 

This day finished, nevertheless, like any other 
day ; the proprietor of the estate of Latour en- 
tertained us, and we added our provisions to 

his. 

We dined very well, and soon we got up and 
buried ourselves in the hay, where we slept 
soundly. 

Next day my theory received the sanction of ex- 
perience. The wind had fallen entirely during the 
night, and though the sun was as brilliant, and even 
felt hotter than on the previous day, we went shoot- 
ing for a great part of the day without feeling incon- 
venienced by the thirst. 

But the worst of it was, that, though the day before, 
we had very prudently filled our flasks before we left 
home, they had not been able to resist the repeated 
charges we had made on them ; they were now 
nothing more than bodies without souls, and we had 
to fall back upon the wine-casks of the country inn- 
keepers. 

It had com^to this, but we grumbled at it, and 
I anathematised the parching wind in an allocution 
full of invectives when I saw that dish fit to be set 
before kings, "spinach with quail fat," about to be 



washed down with a wine scarcely as good as ihat 
of Suresnes,* 



' Samoa, ■ Tery prcliy viLU|c two Leagues from Puii, AAd Hell 
knovq fm it! bid wiad. The prorerluL uyini ii, Ihu it oeedi three 

wine, ftad two lupporten to ho^d him up uid prevent hit courage from 

dod Dot prevent iti heioe drunlc. Our aulbot hat kJreuly tpokes of 
Simiiica wine in the Sccsad Uediuiioc, | iL , ud contmled it with 





MEDITATION IX. 

ON DRINKS.* 



52. — We ought to understand by the term "drink " 
any liquid which can be used with our food. 

Water appears 10 be the most natural beverage. It 
is found everywhere where there are animals, replaces 
milk for adults, and is as necessary to us as air. 

Wafer. 

Water is the sole beverage which really appeases 

^tbirst, and for this reason it can only be drunk in 

small quantities. The greatest portion of the other 

beverages which men drink are nothing but pallia- 

* Thii chapter it purclT phlltaophicmL Tha douUi of Ihc nrioiu 
kiwiTD bawngci cuinot cbcct into ih« plui 1 have fenncd ; luch ui 



OK DRINRS. l8l 

tives, and if man had always kept to water, it never 
would have been said of him that one of his privi- 
leges was to drink without being thirsty. 

Prompt effect of Drinks, 

Whatever is drunk is absorbed by the animal 
economy with an extreme facility ; it is prompt in its 
effects, and the relief it affords is almost instan- 
taneous. Give to an exhausted man the most sub- 
stantial food, he will eat it with difficulty, and will 
at first not feel any great benefit. But give him a 
glass of wine or brandy, and that same instant he 
will feel better, and revive. 

I can support this theory by a rather remarkable 
instance which was told me by my nephew. Colonel 
Guigard, a man naturally not disposed to tell stories, 
and whose veracity may be relied on. 

He was at the head of a detachment which was 
returning from the siege of Jaffa,* and was only 
about a quarter of a mile from the place where they 
were to halt and expected to find water, when they 
found by the roadside the bodies of some soldiers 
who had preceded them by a day's march, and 
who were killed by the heat. 

Amongst the victims of this burning climate was 
a carabineer well known to several soldiers of the 
detachment. 

He must have been dead for more than twenty-four 

* Jaffa* a Syrian town and harbour on the Mediterranean. In 1799 
BonafMute took it after a long siege and a desperate resistance. 



\ 



184 MEDITATION |X. 

exaltation of the palate to the highest degree ; it$ 
various preparations have opened new sources of 
enjoyments;* it communicates to certain medicines f 
an energy which they would never have possessed 
without this vehicle ; it has even become in our 
hands a formidable weapon, for the natives of the 
New World have been almost as much overcome 
and slain by brandy as by gunpowder. 

The discovery of how to extract alcohol has also led 
to other important results ; for as this method consists 
in separating and exposing those parts which constitue 
a body and distinguish it from all others, it has served 
as a model for those who devote themselves to analo- 
gous researches, and who have made known to us sub- 
stances previously unknown, such as quinine, morphine, 
strychnine, and others of the same sort, which they 
have discovered, or which are still to be discovered. 

Be this as it may, this thirst for a kind of liquid 
which Nature has wrapt up in mystery, this extra- 
ordinary desire, influencing all races of men, under 
all climates and in all latitudes, is well worthy of 
attracting the attention of the philosophical observer. 

I, too, have considered this matter as others have 
done, and I feel tempted to place the desire for fer- 
mented liquors, which is unknown amongst animals, 
side by side with the anxiety about a future state, 
which is also foreign to those animals, and to regard 
them both as two distinctive attributes of man — the 
masterpiece of the last sublunary revolution. 

* Table liqueurs. f Elixirs. 




MEDITATION X. 



AND EPISODIC ON THE END OF THE 
WORLD. 



54- — I SAID "the last sublunary revolution," and 
this thought, thus expressed, has led me far, very 
far away from my subject 

Undoubted proofs teach us that our globe has 
already undergone many absolute changes, which 
have been, so to speak, so many " ends of the world," 
and I do not know what instinct warns us that there 
are other revolutions yet to follow. 

Already, men have often thought that such revolu- 
tions were on the eve of taking place, and many 
people are still alive whom the watery comet pre- 



1 86 MEDITATION X. 

dieted by the good Jdr6me Lalande,* sent to the 
confessional. 

The effect of all this has been that not a few persons 
seem inclined to surround such a catastrophe with 
vengeances, destroying angels, trumpets, and similar 
dreadful accessories. 

Alas I such a deal of noise is not necessary to 
destroy us ; we are not worth so much pomp, and if 
it be the Lord's will, the whole face of the globe can 
be changed without so much ostentation. 

Let us suppose, for example, that one of these 
wandering stars of which no one knows either the 
route or why they exist, and whose appearance has 
always been accompanied by a traditional terror; 
let us suppose, I say, that such a comet should pass 
sufficiently near to the sun to become charged with 
a superabundance of caloric, and then should come 
near enough to the earth to produce six months of 
summer evcr>'whcre, or a heat of 167 degrees Fah- 
renheit, which is a heat twice as great as that of the 
comet of 181 1. 

At the end of that doleful season every living or 
growing thing would have perished ; all sounds would 
have ceased. The earth would revolve silently until 
other circumstances should have developed other 
germs ; and nevertheless, the cause of this disaster 
would remain lost in the vast fields of space, and 

• •• The good " Jos€ph-J«Jrdme le Franqais de Lalande (i 732-1 807X "n 
astronomer as celebrated for his scientific knowledge as for his eccen* 
tricities and his open adherence to Atheism, was a countryman of 
Brillat-Savarin, and bora in the Department of the Ain.— Tr. 



ON THB END OF THE WORLD. 187 

would never have come nearer to us than a few 
hundred millions of leagues. 

This event, quite as possible as any other, has 
always appeared to me an interesting subject for 
contemplation, and I never cease to dwell on it 

It is curious to follow in our minds this heat in- 
creasing in intensity, to foresee its effects, its develop- 
ment and its action, and to ask ourselves : 

Qjuid during the first day, during the second day, 
and so on until the last ? 

Quid about air, earth, and water, the formation, 
combination, and explosion of gases ? 

Quid about mankind, considered with regard to 
age, sex, strength, and weakness ? 

Quid about the obedience to the laws, submission 
to authority, respect of persons and property ? 

Quid about the means sought, or attempts made, 
to escape the danger ? 

Quid as to the ties of love, friendship, kindred, 
and as to selfishness and disinterestedness ? 

Quid as to religious sentiments, faith, resignation, 
hope, and so on ? 

History can supply us with some information as to 
the moral influences, for already the end of the world 
has been predicted several times, even a particular 
day being sometimes specified. 

I am truly sorry I am unable to inform my readers 
how wisely I regulated all these things in my own 
mind ; but I will not deprive them of the pleasure of 
applying themselves to it This may perhaps shorten 



l88 MEDITATION X. 

some of their sleepless hours at night, and give them 
a few hours doze during the day. 

Great danger dissolves all ties. In the great 
yellow fever epidemic, which took place in Philadel- 
phia about the year 1792, husbands were seen 
shutting the doors of their corniubial homes on their 
wives, children deserting their Others, and many 
similar phenomena. 

Quad a noHt Dau avtrta/f 





MEDITATION XI. 

ON COURMANDISE. 



55. — I HAVE consulted the dictionaries nnder the 
word gourmandise, and I am not at all satisfied with 
what I find. There is a perpetual confusion between 
gourmandise, properly so called, and "gluttony" and 
"voracity," whence I infer that lexicographers, how- 
ever otherwise very estimable, do not belong to those 
amiable scientific men who can eat gracefully a wing 
of a partridge au suprtme, and then, by raising the 
little finger, wash it down with a glass of Latitte or 
Clos-Vougeot 

They have fbi^iotten, they were entirely oblivious 
of the social gommuuidue, which includes Atheniaa 



190 MEDITATION XL 

elegance, Roman luxury, and French refinement ; 
which arranges wisely, orders dishes to be prepared 
skilfully, appreciates energetically, and judges pro- 
foundly. This precious quality might almost rank as 
a virtue, and is very certainly the source of our purest 
enjo>Tiients. 

Definitions, 

Let us define in order that we shall understand 
each other. 

Gourmandise is an impassioned, rational, and 
habitual preference for all objects which flatter the 
sense of taste. 

Gourmandise is opposed to excess ; any person 
who eats more than he can digest or who gets 
intoxicated, runs the risk of being struck out from the 
list of its votaries. 

Gourmandise also comprises a love for tit-bits 
which is merely an analogous preference for light, 
delicate, small dishes, pastry, sweets, and so forth. 
This is a modification introduced in favour of ladies 
and men of feminine tastes. 

From whatever point of view gourmandise is 
examined, it deserves nothing but praise and en- 
coiu'agement 

Physically, it is the result and the proof of the 
wholesome and perfect state of the organs destined 
to nutrition. 

Morally, it shows implicit resignation to the com- 
mands of the Creator, who, in ordering man to eat 



ON tSOURMANDISE. 191 

that he may live, invites him to do so by appetite, 
encourages him by flavour, and rewards him by 
pleasure. 

Advantages of Gourmandise. 

Considered from the point of view of political 
economy, gourmandise is the conunon tie which 
unites nations by the reciprocal exchange of various 
articles which are daily consumed. 

It is ^the cause why wines, brandies, sugars, 
groceries, pickled and salted viands, and provisions 
of every kind, even eggs and melons, are sent from 
pole to pole. 

It gives a proportionate price to things which 
are middling, good, or excellent, whether these 
qualities are artificial, or have been given to them by 
Nature. 

It sustains the hope and emulation of a crowd 
of fishermen, sportsmen, gardeners, and others who 
every day stock the most wealthy larders with the 
result of their labour and their skill. 

Finally, it supports an industrious multitude of 
cooks, pastry-cooks, confectioners, and other food- 
preparers, who, under different titles, all in their turn 
employ for their wants other and various workmen, 
which gives rise, at all times and at all hours, to a 
circulation of capital the most practised mind cannot 
reckon up, or calculate its quotient. 

Let us also remark that this branch of industry 
which has gourmandise for its object, presents so 



193 IfEDITATICm XI. 

much the more advantages, as on the one hand it 
derives its support from the largest incomes, and 
on the other from wants that spring up afresh every 
day. 

In the state of society which we have now reached, 
it is difficult to imagine a race living solely on bread 
and vegetables. If such a nation existed, it would 
undoubtedly have been conquered by carnivorous 
armies, — like the Hindoos, who have been succes- 
sively the prey of all those who cared to attack them, 
— or else it would be converted by the cooking of 
their neighbours, as the Boeotians have been who 
became gourmands after the battle of Leuctra.* 

Sequel, 

56. — Gourmandise offers great resources for levy- 
ing taxes, for it brings contributions to town dues, to 
custom-houses, to indirect taxation. Everything we 
eat pays a tax, and there is no exchequer of which 
the lovers of good living are not the firmest supports. 

Shall we speak of that swarm of cooks who for 
many centuries past annually leave France to instruct 
foreign nations in gourmandise. The majority succeed, 
and then, in obedience to an instinct which never dies 
in a Frenchman's heart, bring back to their country 
the fruits of their economy. This contribution is far 

* Leuctra, a village in B<etia, to the south of Thebes, where Epa- 
minondas and the Thebans defeated Cleombrotes and the Spartans 
B.C. 371, and overthrew their supremacy.— Tr. 



OF GOURMANDISE. 1 93 

greater than might be supposed, and therefore these 
people will be honoured by posterity as others have 
been. 

But if nations are grateful, then Frenchmen, above 
all other nations, ought to erect a temple and altars 
to gourmandise. 

Influence of Gourmandise, 

57. — By the treaty of the month of November 
18 1 5, France was compelled to pay to the allies 
seven hundred and fifty million francs, or about 
thirty millions sterling, in three years. 

To this sum should be added the amount required 
to satisfy the demands for compensation of the in- 
habitants of various countries, of which the allied 
sovereigns had stipulated the interests to be paid, 
amounting to more than three hundred million francs, 
or about twelve millions sterling. 

Finally, to this should be added the various re- 
quisitions in kind of the enemies' generals, who filled 
whole waggons, which they sent towards the frontiers, 
and for which the public treasury had eventually to 
pay — in all, more than fifteen hundred million francs, 
or about sixty millions sterling.* 

We ought to have felt some apprehension that 
such large payments daily made in hard cash would 
have produced a deficiency in the treasury, would 
have depreciated all fictitious values, and finally have 

* Our author se«ms to forget that Napoleon I., his marshals, generals, 
and officers, had also levied requisitions and contributions in foreign 
countries, and that pretty freely — Tk. 

2 B 



194 MEDITATION XL 

brought on us all those evils which menace a country 
without cash and without means of procuring it 

" Alas ! " said all who had anything to lose, when 
they saw the fatal tumbril coming for its load 
in the Rue Vivienne * ; " alas 1 there is all our 
money emigrating in a lump ! Next year, we shall 
go down on our knees before a crown-piece ; we 
shall fall into the deplorable condition of a ruined 
man ; speculations of every kind will be unsuccessful ; 
it will be impossible to borrow; there will be nothing 
but consumption, exhaustion, and civil death." 

The result contradicted all these fears ; all pay- 
ments were made with ease, to the great astonishment 
of every financier ; our credit rose, loans were eagerly 
caught at, and during all the time this "superpur- 
gation" lasted, the rate of exchange, this infallible 
gauge of monetary circulation, was in our favour — 
that is to say, it was arithmetically proved that more 
money came into France than ever went out of it 

What power came to our aid? What divinity 
worked this miracle ? . . . Gourmandise. 

When the Britons, Germans, Teutons, Cimmerians, 
and Scythians made their irruption into France, they 
brought with them a rare voracity and stomachs of 
no common capacity. 

They did not long remain satisfied with the official 
cheer which a forced hospitality had to supply them 
with ; but they aspired to more refined enjoyments, 
and soon the Queen City became nothing but an 
enormous refectory. 

* At that time the Bank of France was in that stxeet.— Tr. 



OF GOURMANDISE. 195 

Those invaders ate in restaurants, eating-houses, 
inns, taverns, at open-air stalls, and even in the 
streets. 

They gorged themselves with meat, fish, game, 
truffles, pastry, and especially with our fruit 

They drank with an avidity equal to their appetite, 
and always ordered the dearest wines, in the hope 
of finding in them some enjoyments they had not 
before known, and which they were afterwards quite 
astonished they did not meet with. 

Superficial observers did not know what to think 
of all this eating without end or limit, but your 
genuine Frenchman laughed and rubbed his hands, 
saying, "We have them now under the spell, and 
they will pay us back this evening more crowns than 
was cotmted out to them this morning from the 
public treasury." 

It was a favourable time for all those who con- 
tribute to the enjoyments of the sense taste. V^ry 
made his fortune ; Achard laid the foundation of his ; 
Beauvilliers made a third ; and Madame SuUot,* 
whose shop in the Palais Royal was a mere 
pigeon-hole, sold every day as many as twelve thou- 
sand tarts, t 

* The names of MM. Vtfry, Achard, Beauvilliers, and Sallot are, I 
am Sony to say, no longer found in the Paris Directory (Bottin) for this 
year (1884).— Tr. 

t When the army of invasion traversed Champagne, it took six hun- 
dred thousand bottles of wine from the cellars of M. Moet, of Epemay, 
well known for his excellent cellars. He consoled himself for this 
tremendous loss when he found that the thieves had retained a taste for 
his wines, and because he receives now from the North twice as many 
orders as belbre their visit 



1 

I 



196 MEDITATION XI. 

The effect still lasts. Foreigners flow in from 
every part of Europe to renew during peace those 
delightful habits they have contracted during war. 
They must come to Paris ; and when they are there, 
they must be regaled at any price ; and if French 
funds are in favour, it is perhaps less due to the 
higher interest they pay than to the instinctive con- 
fidence that foreigners can scarcely prevent placing in 
a people amongst whom the gourmands find so much 
happiness.* 

Portrait of a Pretty fiemaU Gourmand, 

58. — Gourmandise is not unbecoming to women ; 
it agrees with the delicacy of their organisation, 
and serves them as compensation for some of the 
pleasures they cannot enjoy, and for some hard- 
ships to which Nature seems to have condenmed 
them. 

Nothing is more pleasant to see than a pretty 
female gourmand under arms ; her napkin is nicely 
adjusted ; one of her hands rests on the table, the 
other carries to her mouth little morsels, beautifully 
carved, or the wing of a partridge that must be 
picked. Her eyes sparkle, her hps are glossy, her 
conversation is agreeable, and all her movements 
are graceful ; she does not lack some spice of the 
coquetry which accompanies all that women do. 
With so many advantages she is irresistible, and 

^ The calculations whereon this article is hased have been commu- 
nicated to me by M. Jean-Marie Boscary, an aspiring gastronome, 
and who is not in want of sufficient titles for this denominatioOi for 
he is a financier and a musical amateur. 



OF GOURMANDISE. 1 97 

Cato the Censor himself would feel moved by her 
influence. 

Anecdote, 

Here PU record what is for me a far from pleasing 
reflection. 

One day I was most comfortably seated at the 
table beside a very pretty woman, and I was inwardly 
rejoicing at having so good a place, when turning 
suddenly towards me she said, "Your very good 
health, sir ! " I commenced at once to thank her in 
most eloquent phraseology, but I did not finish my 
speech, as the coquette turning to her neighbour on 
the left said, " Let us clink glasses." They touched 
each other's glasses, and this abrupt transition seemed 
to me a perjury, and gave me a pang, which after 
many years is not yet cured. 

Women are Gourmandes, 

The desire of the fair sex for gourmandise is in 
some sort instinctive, because it is favourable to 
beauty. 

A series of strictly exact observations has demon- 
strated that a succulent, delicate, and choice diet 
delays for a long time and keeps aloof the external 
appearances of old age. 

It gives more brilliancy to the eye, more freshness 
to the skin, more support to the muscles ; and as it 
is certain in physiology that it is the depression of 
muscles that causes wrinkles, these formidable enemies 
of beauty, it is equally true that, all things being 



198 MEDITATION XL 

equal, those who know how to eat are comparatively 
ten years younger than those ignorant of that science. 
Painters and sculptors are deeply penetrated with 
this truth, for they never represent those who practise 
abstinence by choice or by duty, such as misers and 
anchorites, without giving to them the pathos of sick- 
ness, the leanness of misery, and the wrinkles of 
decrepitude. 

Effects of Gourmandise on Sociability, 

59. — Gourmandise is one of the principal links of 
society ; it extends gradually that spirit of convivi- 
ality which unites every day different classes, welds 
them into one whole, animates conversation, and 
softens the angles of conventional inequality. 

It also justifies all the trouble the host takes to 
receive his guests properly, as well as their gratitude 
when they see he has so ably occupied himself 
with them. Now is the time to stigmatise for ever 
those senseless feeders who swallow with culpable 
indifference the nicest tit-bits, or who with sacrilegious 
carelessness inhale the " bouquet " of an odoriferous 
and clear wine. As a general maxim, every lofty 
and intelligent guest requires to be specially praised, 
and delicate compliments should always be paid 
wherever a desire to please has been shown. 

Influence of Gourmandise on Conjugal Happiness. 

Finally, gourmandise^ when it is shared, has a 
most marked influence on the happiness which may 
be found in the conjugal state. 



OF GOURMANDISE. 1 99 

A married pair of gourmands have at least once 
a day a pleasant opportunity of meeting, for even 
those who have separate bed-rooms — and in France 
there are a great number who have — eat at least at 
the same table, and have a subject of conversation 
which is always new ; they speak not only of what 
they eat, biit also of what they have eaten, what they 
will eat, what they have seen elsewhere, of fashion- 
able dishes, new inventions, and so forth. Every one 
knows that such a familiar chit-chat is delightful. 

Music, no doubt, has powerful attractions for those 
who love it ; but one must set about it : — it is an 
exertion. 

Besides, sometimes one has a cold, our music is 
mislaid, the instruments are out of tune, we may 
have a headache : — there is a strike. 

On the other hand, a common want brings the 
couple to table ; the same inclination retains them 
there ; they naturally show each other those trifling 
attentions which denote a wish to oblige, and their 
behaviour at meal-time has a great share in the hap- 
piness of their lives. 

This observation, though new in France, has not 
escaped the English moralist Richardson,* and he 
has worked out the idea by painting in his novel of 
" Pamela " the different manner in which two married 
couples finish their day. 

The first husband is a lord, the eldest son^ 

* M. Brillat-Savarin mentions Fielding's name, but he never wrote 
" Pamela." This is the more astoaishiog as Richardson is well known 
in France.— Tr. 



1 

I 



inrt •-^n.'^a»:;ju»nriv pr;«Ls»»r^ses iil lie 3r"".nfir*7 ir ^e 
7'\ft vrnnrt s lis -/-nn-.^r ^r";r:-.r»r, "Mft ■iii'.naiiil 

T'lit >x1 anrt nis larly '»n*i»r •:*.!• <r;i vr.^ r'-/',r:^ V/ 
v.ir* r.a--^ nnt v/^ «*ai-,h '•,».*.#^ -i.1 'U-/. T>.«^/ \\* **»(*'». n 
Li"*r«»^ r».'^r,'<*.r.<1<^nt w.-h 2r'''*'**T »*•'*-•? •i'.'^'r. vtivr^ in 

rf^'\»;t.\,*y 'AUf\ the fr>ri<^/^s? r^ir^^v^*. Mf, i.'x 'i/.'xn 'o 
^ 1rt'/,H\ m^;il, W'»X thft f;ir^ \*\:\ffA ^^^',r»: h.m rr>»..ri 
%rjxTrf:\/ h;tvft f^^n rry^r^ f'.iff,,.f.T,\ P,r f';irri' );t h<^^/:if 
ha< pTf-pigrfA if. Th/ry ^af ».*h p!<^;i%.r*! %r. !^! r.r,ri- 
v'iT>in;( '•/f th'rir affa.r*, fhrir pr'>^^'**, »K/r:r lo%#t for 
ea/^h fi»h':r. Half a }/f>^*U: f4 M;i^I'-.r,i *f:rv':^ fo 
pTftU^'4 th'-ir fpa^t ari'l *•'';T,v^rsa^'/n, ari'I uK/n the 
%affi#; t^d Ttr(\vf% th fTTi ; an 'I aft'-r thr trari'.;*^;r*-, of 
unito^l lovft they ittx/jA in y^fu'U: ^ilurn^^r t}»^: prcumt, 
anrl flrrrarn f>f a iK-tur fufnr/!. 

All honour ih'-n to f^ourmandixf %ijrh a% wc rlc- 
Ji'ril^ it 10 our rra/hrn, %o Ir/n;^ an it flo*s not cJiveri 



OF GOURMANDISE. 20I 

men from their occupations or duties ! For, as all 
the depravity of Sardanapalus cannot induce us to 
abhor womankind, so the excesses of Vitellius will not 
make us turn our backs on a well-appointed banquet. 

When gourmandise becomes gluttony, voracity, or 
debauchery, it loses its name and its advantages, 
escapes from our jinisdiction, and falls into that of 
the moralist, to be treated with advice, or of the 
physician, who will cure it by his remedies. 

Gourmandise^ such as the professor has charac- 
terised it in this article, has only a name in French ; 
the Latin word gula^ or the English gluttony y or the 
German lustelei^ do not describe it. We there- 
fore advise those who are tempted to translate this 
instructive book to preserve this noun, and merely 
to change the article. This is what all nations have 
done with the word " coquetry " and with everything 
that refers to it 



Note op a Patriotic Gastronomer. 

I observe with pride that ** coquetry" and gourmandise^ by 
which good society has greatly modified our most imperious 
wants, are both of French origin. 



2 C 




MEDITATION XII. 

OF GOURMANDS. 

Every one tuko wishes it is not a Gourmand. 

60. — There are individuals to whom Nature has 
refused thai delicacy of organs, or that degree of 
attention, without which the most succulent dishes 
pass unobserved. 

Physiology has already recognised the first of these 
varieties by showing us the tongue of these unfortu- 
nate beings badly provided with the nervous papilla: 
destined 10 inhale and to appreciate flavours ; they 
only incite in them obtuse sensations ; such persons 
are, with regard to tasie, what the blind are with 
regard to light. 

The second of these varieties is composed of absent- 



OF GOURMANDS. 203 

minded men, chatterboxes, persons engrossed in 
business or ambition, and others who want to occupy 
themselves with two things at the same time, and eat 
only to be filled. 

Napoleon. 

Such, for example, was Napoleon ; he was irregular 
in his meals, and ate fast and badly ; but there also 
was to be discerned that absolute will which he 
carried into everything. The moment he felt hungry, 
it was necessary that he should be fed, and his estab- 
lishment was so arranged that in any place and at any 
hour a chicken, cutlets, and coffee had to be served 
him as soon as wanted. 

Gourmands by Predestination, 

But there is a privileged class whom a material 
and organic predisposition summons to the enjoy- 
ments of taste. 

I have always been a disciple of Lavater and 
Gall, and I believe in innate tendencies. 

Since there are some persons who have evidently 
come into the world to see badly, walk badly, and 
hear badly, because they are bom near-sighted, 
cripples or deaf, why should there not be others who 
have been predisposed to feel more especially a 
certain series of sensations ? 

Moreover, the most ordinary observer may recog- 
nise every moment in society faces that bear the 
unmistakeable imprint of a ruling passion, such as 
supercilious impertinence, self-satisfaction, misan- 



2C4 MEIiITATlOX XIL 

throjA', ver.iual;t}', sind miniy others. Tn:!y, a wry 

exprebiior.^bi face rr*ay irjdicate all this ; biit -Bbes 
the ph) b:o;;r.'-cr.y sb cr-aracieribtic of resoluticc, h is 
veiy rarely ct'.-ri'.c. 

Il^e pasb:or*b act on the muscles, and very often, 
a! thou;; h a nian is f^erfectly silent, the various senti- 
merjib l>-ai a;;: tare him can be read in his face 
ITiis tenvion, if in the s];;j:htest degree habitual, lea%-es 
at last perceptible traces, and stamps thus the counten- 
ance w ith permanent and recojpiisable characteristics. 

Sensual Predisposition^ 

6i. — Those persons predisposed to gourmandise 
are generally of middling heighL They have a 
round or broad inr^t, bright e)'es, a small forehead, 
a sfiort nose, thick lips, and a rotmded chin. The 
women are plump, pretty rather than beaudfiil, vith 
a slight tendency to ofirjiulence. 

Chiefly those who are fond of tit-bits and dainties 
have refined features and a very delicate appear- 
ance ; they are more graceful, and above all, are dis- 
tinguished )jy 2L peculiar motion of the tongue. 

It is especially amongst such persons that we 
must look for the most agreeable guests. They 
accept ever)'thing that is oflfered them, eat slowly and 
taste with discrimination. They never make any 
haste to leave those houses where they have been 
treated hospitably, but they stay the whole evening, 
because they know all the games and pastimes which 
are the ordinary accessories of a gastronomical 
gathering. 



OF GOURMANDS. 205 

Those, on the contrary, to whom Nature has 
refused an aptitude for the gratifications of taste, 
are long-faced, long-eyed, and long-nosed ; whatever 
may be their height, they appear somewhat lanky. 
They have dark and straight hair, and look always 
out of condition ; they also have invented pantaloons. 

The women whom nature has afflicted with the 
same misfortune, are angular, feel themselves wearied 
at a dinner-table, and only live on cards and scandal. 

This physiognomical theory will only, I trust, find 
few of my readers to contradict it, inasmuch as each 
can verify it from his own observations. I shall 
nevertheless give an instance to prove the truth 
of it 

One day I was present at a grand banquet, and 
opposite to me sat a pretty young lady who had a 
very sensuous countenance. I turned towards my 
neighbour, and whispered to him that with such 
features it was impossible for this lady to be any- 
thing else but a gourmande, " How absurd I " he 
replied, "she is scarcely fifteen years old, and has 
not yet reached the age of gourmandise, . « • How- 
ever, let us watch." 

The beginning was not in my favour, I was afraid 
of having compromised myself, for during the two 
first courses the young lady ate with a discretion 
that astonished me ; and I thought we had fallen 
upon an exception, as there are some for every rule. 
But, finally, the dessert came, a dessert both magni- 
ficent and copious, and this revived my spirits. Nor 
did I hope in vain ; not only did she eat of every- 



2o6 MEDITATION XIL 

thin^ offered her, but she even had dishes brought to 
her that were at the other end of the table. In a 
word, she tasted everything, and my neighbour was 
surprised that so little a stomach should hold so 
many things. Thus my diagnosis was verified, and 
science triumphed once again. 

A couple of years later I met the very same lady, 
a week after her marriage. She had become far 
more beautiful : showed a little coquetry, and dis- 
played those charms permitted by fashion ; she was 
delightfuL Her husband was a sight to see, and 
resembled one of those ventriloquists who can laugh 
on one side of the face and cry on the other ; that is 
to say, that he appeared very content to see his wife 
admired by every one, but was seized with a tremor 
of jealousy that was very apparent as soon as any 
one engaged in a serious flirtation with her. This 
last sentiment prevailed; he took his wife with him 
into a far-off department, and here, for me, ends 
her biography. 

I made a similar observation on the Duke Decr^,* 
who for so long a time was minister of marine. 

He was stout, short, of a dark complexion, had 
curly hair, and was broad-shouldered ; he had a 
visage at least round, a protruding chin, thick lips, 
and the mouth of a giant Thus I proclaimed him 
at once predestined to be a lover of good cheer and 
of the fair sex. 

* The Dnke Decr^ (i 761-1 820) managed the naval affairs of France 
from 1801 imtil the year 18x5. After the battle of Aboukir he was for 
ftome time a pritooer of the Eogli&h. — Tr. 



OF GOURMANDS. 207 

I whispered this physiognomical observation to a 
lady I thought very pretty, and whom I believed 
could keep a secret Alas ! I was wrong ; she was 
a daughter of Eve, and my secret soon leaked out 
That very evening, the scientific induction I had 
drawn from his features was told to the duke. 

The next day I received a very nice letter from 
the minister, in which he modestly declined the two 
very excellent qualities I had discovered in him. 

I did not consider myself beaten. I replied that 
Nature had made nothing in vain ; that she had 
evidently created him to perform certain duties, and 
that if he did not do so, he would be^cting contrary 
to his destiny ; that anyhow, I had no right to expect 
such confidence, and so on. 

Our correspondence was not continued; but a short 
time afterwards the newspapers told the whole of Paris 
that a furious battle had taken place between the 
minister and his cook, a battle which lasted for a 
long time, and was doubtful in its results, as the 
statesman had not always the best of it. Now, if 
after such an adventure the cook was not sent away 
— ^which he was not — I may, I think, draw the con- 
clusion that the duke was absolutely overcome by 
the talents of such an artist, and that he despaired 
of finding another who knew so well how to flatter 
his taste ; otherwise he would never have been able 
to conquer the very natural repugnance he must have 
felt at being attended on by so bellicose a servant* 

Whilst I was writing the above, on a fine winter's 

* The history of this battle has not come down to posterity. — Tr. 



208 MEDITATION XII. 

evening, M. Cartier, formerly first violin at the Opera, 
and an able teacher, paid me a visit, and sate down 
at my fireside. I was full of my subject, and looked 
at him with attention. Then I said, " My dear pro- 
fessor, how does it happen that you are not a gour- 
mand^ when you have all the features of one ? " "I 
was once one of the best," he answered, " but now I 
abstain." " On principle ? " I asked. He did not 
reply, but heaved a sigh after the manner of some 
of the heroes of Walter Scott — that is to say, almost 
a groan. 

Gourmands by virtue of their Profession, 

62. — If there are gourmands by predestination, 
there are also others who become so by virtue of 
their calling. These latter can be divided into four 
grand categories : the moneyed classes, the doctors, 
the men of letters, and the pious people. 

The Moneyed Classes, 

The moneyed classes are the heroes of gour- 
mandise, " Hero " is here the proper name, because 
some contests have been fought, and the high-bom 
aristocracy would have crushed the moneyed classes 
beneath their titles and their escutcheons, if these 
latter had not opposed to them a sumptuous table 
and their strong boxes. The cooks fought the genea- 
logists, and although some dukes made fun of their 
host even before they had left his house, they did 
come all the same, and their defeat was proved by 
their presence. 



OF GOURMANDS. 209 

Besides, nearly all those who make much money 
with ease, are of necessity obliged to become 
gourmands. 

Inequality of conditions implies inequality of 
riches, but inequality of riches does not imply in- 
equality of wants, for he who can afford every day a 
dinner enough for a hundred persons, is often satisfied 
with eating the leg of a chicken. Hence, it is necessary 
for art to employ all its resources to reanimate that 
ghost of an appetite by dishes which maintain it with- 
out damaging it, and caress it without stifling it. Thus 
Mondor * became a gourmand^ and thus gourmands 
have followed his example everywhere. 

Therefore, in the whole series of dishes that are 
given in elementary cookery-books, there is always 
one or many that are called i lafinanciire; it is also 
well known that formerly the first plate of green 
peas, of which the price was invariably eight hundred 
francs, or thirty-two pounds, was not eaten by the 
king but by the farmers-general, t 

Things have not much changed at the present day. 
On the tables of moneyed men is still to be found 
everything that is most perfect in nature, all that is 
early grown in hot-houses, and whatever is most ex- 
quisite in art ; and people with historical names do 
not disdain to come to these banquets. 

* Mondor, formerly a lackey, and then a purse-proud financier, a sort 
of French "Sir Gorgius Midas," is the hero of Colnet (1768-1839) 's 
poem, L*ari tU diner en vilU, — Tr. 

t The ftrmitrs-ginSraux were capitalists who paid a large sum to 
the French king for the right of collecting for him the taxes and various 
duties, on which they received a heavy percentage.^TR. 

2 D 



dIO MEDITATION XII. 

Doctors, 

63. — Causes of a very different nature, although 
not less powerful, act on doctors ; they become 
gourmands in spite of themselves, and must be made 
of cast iron to resist the force of circumstances. 

The "dear doctors" are all the more warmly 
welcomed because health, which is under their 
patronage, is the most precious of all boons : thus 
they are " spoilt children " in every sense of the word. 

Always waited for with impatience, they are 
received with eagerness ; now, it is a pretty patient 
who invites them, then it is a young lady who 
caresses them ; again, it is a father or a husband 
who recommends to them what they hold most dear. 
Hope attacks them on the right, gratitude on the left ; 
they are fed like pet doves ; they let things take their 
chance, and in six months the habit is confirmed, and 
they are gourmands past redemption. 

I ventured one day to express this opinion at 
a banquet, in which I took part with eight others, 
and with Dr. Corvisart* as chairman. This was 
about the year 1806. 

With the inspired tone of a Puritan preacher I cried, 
" Gentlemen, you are the last remnant of a body that 
formerly covered the whole of France. Alas ! its 
members are destroyed or dispersed. There are no 
more farmers-general, abb^s^ chevaliersy Carmelite 
monks. The entire gastronomic body is now only 

* Jean Nicolas Corvisart-Desmarest (1755-1821), a celebrated phy- 
tictan« and doctor to the First Consul, who created him a baron. 



OF GOURMANDS. 211 

to be found in the members of yom* profession. Sup- 
port with firmness so great a responsibility, even if 
you were to share the fate of the three hundred 
Spartans at the pass of Thermopylae." 

Thus I spoke, no one made any complaint, and, to 
state the truth, we acted in accordance with my advice. 

I observed at this dinner a fact that deserves to be 
known. 

Dr. Corvisart, who could be very agreeable when he 
liked, only drank iced champagne. For this reason 
at the commencement of the dinner, while the other 
guests only occupied themselves in eating, he kept 
talking loudly and telling stories. At dessert, on the 
contrary, when the conversation began to be ani- 
mated, he became serious, taciturn, and sometimes 
morose. 

From this observation, confirmed by many 
others, I have deduced the following theorem: 
Champagne, which is exhilarating in its first effects, 
ab initioj is stupefying in those which follow, in 
recessu^ a result, moreover, which is a well-known 
characteristic of the carbonic acid gas it contains. 

Objurgation, 

• 64. — ^Whilst I have hold of the regular practitioners, 
I must, before I die, reproach them with the extreme 
severity they use towards their patients. 

As soon as any one has the misfortune to fall into 
their hands, he must listen to a long string of pro- 
hibitions, and renounce everything that is agreeable 
to his habits. 



*" 



/ / 






^'»' s 



.- ' 



' r r 



^ 



/ *" 



^' / e. / 









^-1_ 



OF GOURMANDS. 21$ 

a hard drinker according to the custom of those 
ancient times. 

He fell ill, and the first words the doctor said 
were to forbid him to take wine in any form. 

Nevertheless, at the very next visit, the doctor 
found the patient lying down, and at his bedside 
nearly complete evidence of his guilt, to wit, a table 
covered with a very white cloth, a crystal goblet, a 
handsome-looking bottle, and a napkin to wipe his 
lips. 

At this sight he flew into a violent rage, and 
threatened to leave the house, when the wretched 
canon cried with a lamentable voice, "Ah, doctor, 
remember that when you forbade me to drink you 
did not forbid me the pleasure of looking at the 
bottle." 

The doctor who attended M. Montlusin, of Pont- 
de-Veyle,* was even more cruel, for not only did he 
forbid the use of wine to his patient, but he also 
prescribed him to drink water in large doses. 

A short time after the doctor's departure, Madame 
de Montlusin, anxious to obey medical orders, and to 
contribute to the recovery of her husband's health, 
offered him a large glass of the finest and clearest 
water. 

The patient took it quietly, and began to drink 
it with resignation ; but he stopped short at the 
first mouthful, and handed back the glass to his 
wife, saying, "Take it, my dear, and keep it for 

* PoDt-de-Veyle is a small town in the department of the Ain, which 
department had the honour of giving birth to our author.— Tr. 



214 MEDITATION XIL 

another time ; I have always heard it said one should 
never trifle with remedies." 

Men of Letters, 

65. — In the gastronomic dominions, the district of 
men of letters is very near that of the doctors. 

In the reign of Louis XIV., men of letters were 
always hard drinkers ; they conformed to the fashion 
of the day, and the Memoirs of the period are ^-crj- 
edifying on this subject They are now gourmands^ 
and this is really a great improvement 

I am far from being of the opinion of the c>Tiic 
GcofTroy,* who used to say that modem works are 
deficient in power because authors only drink now 
eau sucrie. 

On the contrary, I believe he made two mistakes, 
both in the fact and in its consequences. 

The present age is rich in talents ; they even haim 
one another because there is an excess of them, but 
posterity, which judges with more calmness, will see 
amongst them much to admire, just as we ourselves 
have done justice to the masterpieces of Racine and 
Moli^re, which were coldly received by their con- 
temporaries. 

The position of men of letters in society has never 
been more pleasant than at present 

They no longer live in the garrets in which they 
formerly were said to lodge ; the fields of literature 

* Julien Loais Gcoffroy (1743-1814X a celebrated French writer and 
man of letters, who made himself known and feared by his theatrical 
criticisms in the Journal eUs D&xUs. — Tr. 



OF GOURMANDS. 215 

have become more fertile, and the stream of Hippo- 
crene * rolls also over gold dust They are the equals 
of any one ; they no longer hear the language of 
patronage, and to crown all, gourmandise bestows 
upon them her dearest favours. 

Men of letters are invited because their talents are 
highly valued ; because their conversation has, gener- 
ally speaking, something piquant in it ; and also be- 
cause, for some time, it has been a rule for every 
dinner-party to have its literary man. 

Those gentlemen always arrive a little late, but they 
are only received more cordially, as they have been 
long expected ; they are petted so as to induce them 
to come again ; and as they find all this extremely 
natural, they grow accustomed to it, and become and 
remain gourmands. 

Things have gone so far that they have even 
caused a little scandal Some prying people imagined 
that certain men of letters allowed themselves to be 
bribed by a breakfast, that some laudations were 
the result of a few pdtisy and that the doors of the 
Temple of Immortality could be opened with a fork. 

But this was mere slander ; these rumours have 
died out as many others have ; what is done is well 
done, and I only mention it here to show that I am 
thoroughly acquainted with all that relates to my 
subject 

* The fountain of the Muses, produced by a stroke of the hoof of 
Pegasus.— Tk. 



2l6 MEDITATION XII. 

Ptous People, 

66. — Finally, gourmandise counts many pious 
people among its most faithful followers. 

By "pious people," (Uvots in French, we under- 
stand this word as it was used by Louis XIV. and 
Moli^re, that is to say, those people whose sole re- 
ligion consists in outward practices ; real pious and 
charitable people have nothing to do with those. 

Let us consider how the vocation of gourmands 
comes to them. 

Among persons who wish to work out their own 
salvation, the greatest number try to find the smooth- 
est way. Those who flee from men, sleep on the 
bare ground, and wear hair-cloth next the skin, have 
always been and must ever be exceptions. 

Now there are certain things which ought to be 
condemned without doubt, and never to be indulged 
in, such as balls, theatres, gambling, and other similar 
pastimes. 

While these are considered abominable, as well as 
those who practise them, gourmandise presents itself 
and slips in in an entirely theological guise. 

By right divine, man is the king of Nature, and 
everything that the earth produces was created for 
him. It is for men that the quail is fattened, that 
Mocha has so agreeable an aroma, that sugar has 
such wholesome qualities. 

Why should we not then use in moderation, and 
as it suits us, the goods that Providence offers us, 
especially if we continue to regard them as perish- 



OF GOURMANDS. 21 7 

able objects, especially as they raise our gratitude 
towards the Author of all things. 

Reasons not less weighty come to strengthen these. 
Perhaps we can scarcely. receive too kindly those who 
have charge of our souls, and keep us ix> the way of 
salvation. Should we not make such meetings with 
so excellent an object as pleasant and, therefore, as 
frequent as we can ? 

Sometimes, also, the gifts of Comus arrive unex- 
pectedly, perhaps sent by a former college chum, by 
an old friend, by a penitent who humbles himself, by 
a kinsman who wishes to be remembered by you, or 
by a person who is under some obligations to us, 
and wishes to be gratefril. How can we refuse such 
offerings, or why should we not classify them ? It is 
a mere matter of necessity. 

Besides things did always happen in this way. 
The convents were real storehouses of the most charm- 
ing delicacies, and this is one reason why certain con- 
noisseurs regret them so bitterly.* 

Many monastic orders, especially the Bemardines, 
made a profession of good cheer. The cooks of the 
clergy attained the very limits of the art, and when 
M. de Pressigny, who died Archbishop of Besangon, 
returned from the conclave at the election of Pius VI.,t 



* The best French liquetin were made at La Cdte by the Visitandine 
nuns; those of Niort invented Angelica preserves; the orange-flower 
cakes of the sisters of Chiteaa-Thierry have been highly extolled ; and 
at the Ursuline nunnery of Belley they had a receipt for walnuts pre- 
served in sugar, which was a treasure of enjoyment and delicacy. I fear, 
alas I that this receipt is now lost to us. 

t Pius VI. (1717-1799) was elected Pope in 1775.— Tr. 

2 E 



2l8 MEDITATION XII. 

he said that the best dinner he had had in Rome was 
with the head of the Capuchins, 

Chevaliers and Abbh. 

67. — We cannot finish this article better than by 
honourably mentioning two classes of men whom 
we have seen in all their glory, and whom the 
Revolution has eclipsed — the chevaliers and the 
abb/s. 

What perfect gourmands these dear fellows were ! 
It was impossible to make a mistake on casting a 
glance at their open nostrils, their wide-staring eyes, 
their moist lips, and their mobile tongues ; never- 
theless, each class ate in its own peculiar manner. 

The chevaliers had something military in their 
attitude; they brought with a certain dignity their 
morsels to the lips, worked at them calmly, and 
looked straight at the master and at the mistress 
of the house with an approving glance. 

The abb^Sy on the other hand, gathered themselves 
together to be nearer their plates ; their right hands 
ciured inwards like the claws of a cat who draws the 
chestnuts from the fire, whilst their faces beamed with 
enjoyment, and bore looks of concentration easier to 
conceive than to describe. 

As three-fourths of the present generation have 
never seen anybody resembling the chevaliers and 
the abb^s we have mentioned, and as it is neverthe- 
less indispensable to know them to understand clearly 
many books written in the eighteenth century, we 
shall borrow from the author of the " Historic Treatise 



OF GOURMANDS. 219 

on the Duel" some pages that will fully explain this 
subject* 

Longevity of Gourmands. 

68. — To conclude ; I am happy, and no one more 
so, at being able to give my readers some good news, 
namely, that good living is very far from being injuri- 
ous to health, and that, all things being equal, gour- 
mands live much longer than others. 

This has been statistically proved in a very well- 
prepared paper, read recently before the Academy of 
Sciences, by Dr. VuUiermet 

He compares those ranks of society where they 
live well with those where people feed badly, and 
goes over the whole subject ; he also compares with 
one another the various arrondissements of Paris, in 
some of which, generally, wealthy people live, whilst 
in the other the contrary takes place ; for every one 
knows that there exists, in this respect, an enormous 
difference, as, for example, between the Faubourg 
Saint-Marceau and the Chauss^e d'Antin.t 

Finally the doctor carries his researches to the de- 
partments of France, and compares with one another 
those that are more or less fertile. Everywhere 
the general result is that mortality diminishes in 
the same proportion as the means of subsistence 
improve ; and, therefore, those who are unfortunate 
enough not to be able to feed well, may, at least, be 

♦ Sm "Varieties,- No. XX. 

t Whem our author wrote, the Faubourg Saint-Marceau was the 
suburb where the generality of workmen dwelti whilst the nobles and 
the rich inhabited the Chauss^ d'Antin.— Ts. 



320 MEDITATION XII. 

sure that death will free them sooner from all their 
troubles. 

The two extremes of this progression are that 
under the most favourable conditions of life only one 
individual in fifty dies in one year, whilst among 
those who are the most exposed to privations and 
misery, one at least among four dies in the same 
time. 

Not those who always have excellent cheer are 
never ill. Alas I they also fall sometimes under the 
sway of the faculty, which usually qualifies them as 
« good patients ; " but as they have a much larger 
dose of vitality, and as all parts of the organism are 
in better condition. Nature has more resources, and 
the body resists incomparably better the process of 
destruction. 

This physiological truth is also supported by 
history, which informs us that whenever imperious 
circumstances, such as war, a siege, a bad season, 
have diminished the means of nourishment, that state 
of distress has always been accompanied by con- 
tagious diseases and a large increase of the death- 
rate. 

The Lafarge bank, so well known by Parisians, 
would undoubtedly have succeeded, if those who 
established it had made to enter into their calcula- 
tions the truth of the facts developed by Dr. 
VuUiermet 

They calculated mortality according to the tables 
of BufTon, D^parcieux,* and others, which are based 

* Joui-Loais Lcderc, Count de Buffoa (1707M788X a cdebnted 



OF GOURMANDS. 221 

on numbers taken from all classes and from all 
ages of the population. But as those who put 
their capital out at interest to keep something for 
the ftiture have in general escaped the dangers of 
childhood, and as they are accustomed to a regular 
diet, well prepared and often nutritious, the death- 
rate was lower than was expected, their hopes were 
frustrated, and the Tontine completely failed. 

Without doubt this has not been the only reason 
of the failure of the house of Lafarge, but it was an 
elementary one.* 

For this last observation we are indebted to 
Professor Pardessus.t 



M. de Belloy, Archbishop of Paris, who lived 
nearly a century,^ had a remarkable appetite. He 
loved good living, and I have seen many times his 
patriarchal countenance brighten up when any impor- 
tant dish was served. Napoleon showed him on all 
occasions marked deference and respect 

utiinlist; Antoine Dtfparcienz (1703-1768), a wdl-kaovn nathema- 
tician. — ^Tk. 

* Joachim Lafarge^ was the creator of a saTings-hank known by the 
name of Tontin* viagirt ei tCamortiuemtnit based 00 the lives of the 
depositors, which, established in 1791, began its liquidation in 1809, and 
which, I bdiere, is not yet (1884) finished.— Tk. 

t Jeon-Marie Pardessua (177*' 1853), one of the best lawyers of 
Fiance^ and a good scholar, was professor of commercial law at the 
Paris faculty in x8zo, one year after the collapse of Lafarge, and 
made probably then the above observation to onr author.— Tr. 

X The Cardinal Jean Baptiste de Belloy, with the "patriarchal 
countenance, " was bom in 1709, and died in z8o8, at the age of 
ainety-nioe.— Tb. , 




MEDITATION XII 

GASTRONOMIC TESTS. 



69. — We have seen in the preceding chapter, that 
the distinctive charaderisiic of those »ho have 
nuire pretensions than rifjht 10 ihe honours of geur- 
manJist consists in this ; that, uilh ihc best cheer 
before them, their eyes remain dull and their faces 



Such men are not worthy to ha\-c treasures la%'ished 
on them, of whose value they are unciinscious. It, 
however, seemed very interestinj; to us to be able to 
discover them, point them out, and we ha\-c sou^'ht 
everywhere for information on a matter so important, 
as to how to classify your men aad how to know 
youi guests. 



OF G0X7RMANDS. 233 

We set to work to find this out with an energy 
which ensures success, and it is to our perseverance 
we owe the advantage of presenting to the honourable 
body of hosts the discovery of " gastronomic tests," a 
discovery which will reflect credit on the nineteenth 
century. We understand by " gastronomic tests " 
dishes of acknowledged flavour, and of an excellence 
so undoubted that the mere sight of them ought to 
move, in a well-organised man, every faculty of taste ; 
so that all those men whose faces, under such 
circumstances, neither flash with desire nor beam 
with ecstasy, may justly be noted as unworthy of the 
honours of the banquet, and its attending pleasures. 

The method of tests carefully examined and 
deliberated in Grand Council, has been inscribed 
in a golden book in the following words, taken from 
a language that never changes : — 

Utcumque ferculum, eximii et bene noti saporis^ 
appositum fuerit^ fiat autopsia convivoe^ et nisi fades 
ejus ac oculi vertantur ad extasim^ notetur ut 
indignus. 

This has been translated as follows by the sworn 
translator of the Grand Council : — 

"Each time, when a dish is served of a special 
and well-known flavour, the guests ought carefully to 
be observed, and those whose countenance does not 
beam with ecstasy, ought to be noted down as un- 
worthy." 

The criterion of the power of such tests is relative, 
and ought to be suited to the faculties and the habits 
of the various classes of society. All circumstances 



224 MEDITATION XIII. 

being appreciated, they ought to be calculated to 
excite admiration and surprise ; a test is a dynamo- 
meter of which the power ought to increase in pro- 
portion as we rise higher in the strata of society. 
Thus, a test destined for a man of limited means 
would not do for one of the principal clerks, and 
will be scarcely perceived when a select few dine 
together at a capitalist's or at a minister's. 

In the enumeration we are about to make of the 
dishes that have been raised to the dignity of tests, 
we shall commence at the lowest grade, and after- 
wards gradually ascend to elucidate the theory, so 
that not only every one may use it with benefit, but 
that it may yet be possible to invent new ones based 
on the same principle, to bestow one's name on them, 
and to employ them in that sphere in which the 
inventor is fated to dwell. 

We felt for a moment inclined to give here, as 
proofs and illustrations, the receipts for concocting the 
various preparations we indicate as tests, but we have 
abstained. We thought it would be doing injustice 
to the several cookery books that have appeared, 
including that of Beauvilliers, and quite recently the 
CuisinUr des Cuisiniers,* We will simply refer our 
readers to these works as well as to those of Viard 
and Appert, observing that in the last mentioned are 
to be found various scientific informations previously 
unknown in works of this sort 

We regret that the public has not been able to 

* All these cookery-books, including Beauvilliers* L'art du Cmsiniert 
are now superseded, except U CuUinitr des Cuisinurt^ which is still 
in general use in France. — Tr. 



OF GOURMANDS. 225 

appreciate a short-hand account of all that was said 
at the Council, when they deliberated on the tests. 
These deliberations will remain for ever secret and 
veiled ; but there is, at least, one circumstance I am 
allowed to reveal. 

Some member * suggested negative tests, or tests 
by privation. 

Thus, for example, let us suppose an accident, 
real or feigned, completely spoiling a dish of high 
flavour, or a hamper with game that has been sent by 
the carrier and has not come to hand. On the receipt 
of such disastrous news, we might observe and note 
the different degrees of sadness gradually stealing 
over the countenances of our guests, and thus we 
might acquire a good criterion of their gastronomic 
sensibility. 

But this proposal, although seductive at the first 
glance, could not stand a thorough examination. 
The president observed, and observed rightly, that 
similar events, which might only superficially affect 
the incomplete organs of people who do not care for 
good living, might exercise a fatal influence on true 
believers, and perhaps might give them a mortal 
fright. And thus, though the member still persisted 
in his proposal, it was unanimously rejected. 

We proceed now to give a list of the dishes we 

* M. Felix Sibuet, who, by his classical physiognomy, the delicacy 
of his taste, and his administrative talents, possesses all that is required 
to become a perfect financier.— Brillat-Savarin. 

This gentleman, who has such peculiar requirements for a financier, 
was also a native of the departnlent where our author was bom, and had 
two brothers, of whom one was in his time a well-known journalist^ the 
other a baron, and general of the first Empire. — Tk. 

2 F 



228 MEDITATION XIII. 

General Observation, 

In order that any test should produce its full effect, 
it should be served up in abundance. Experience, 
founded on a knowledge of human nature, has taught 
us that the rarest of savoury dishes loses its influence 
when not in excessive proportion, as the first impres- 
sion which it produces on the guests is naturally 
checked by the fear of being stingily served, or, in cer- 
tain cases, of being obliged to refuse out of politeness ; 
such niggardliness often happens amongst people who 
wish to be extravagant and are miserly at heart. 

I have many times had occasion to verify the 
effects of gastronomic tests. I shall quote one ex- 
ample, which, I trust, will be deemed sufficient. 

I was present at a dinner of gourmands^ all 
" pious people," where there were only two laymen, 
my friend J. R. and myself, and where amongst other 
things, an enormous virgin cock* of Barbezieux, stuffed 
with truffles almost to bursting, and a Strasburg pdtS 
de foie-gras^ looking like the fortress of Gibraltar, was 
brought to table. 

* Men whose opinions are worth having, have assured me that the 
flesh of a virgin cock, if not more tender, has at least a more decided and 
better taste than that of a capon. I have too many duties to attend to 
in this lower world to try the experiment, which I leave to my readers ; 
but I think that we may beforehand embrace their opinion, inasmuch as 
in the first of these meats is an element of sapidity which is wanting in 
the second. 

A very clever lady told me that she knows gourmands by the way 
in which they pronounce the word "good " in such phrases as : " That's 
good ! that's very good ! " and some others like them. She assures me 
that the initiated give to this short monosyllable "good " an intonation 
of truth, of gentleness, and of enthusiasm which persons with palates 
incompletely organised can never attain. 



OF GOURMANDS. 339 

This appearance produced on the company a 
marked effect difficult to describe, but somewhat Hke 
the "silent laugh" depicted in some of Cooper's 
novels, and I perceived that I should have something 
to observe. In fad, all conversation ceased through 
the fiilness of their hearts. Every one was paying 
attention to the skilful operations of the carvers, and 
as soon as everybody had been served, I saw beam 
on the countenances of each, and in succession, the 
fire of desire, an ecstasy of enjoyment, and the repose 
of perfect bliss. 





MEDITATION XIV. 

THE PLEASURES OF THE TABLE. 



70. — Man is, without doubt, amongst the s 
beings that people our globe, the one who undergoes 
the most sufTering. 

Nature has originally condemned him to sorrow by 
the bareness of his skin, the form of his feet, and the 
instinct of war and destruction that accompanies the 
human race wherever it has been met. 

Animals have not been stricken with this curse ; 
and excepting some combats caused by the instinct 
of reproduction, pain would be alisoluiely unknown 
to the majority of animals in a slate of Nature ; whilst 
man, who can only experience pleasure transiently and 
by a small number of organs, can at all times, and in 
e\ery part of his body, suffer intense agony. 



THE PLEASURES OF THE TABLE. 23 1 

This decree of destiny has been aggravated in its 
fulfihnent by a host of maladies, which are produced 
by the habits of social life ; so that the most keen and 
the best regulated pleasure than can be imagined 
cannot either in intensity or duration make up for 
the atrocious pains that accompany certain disorders, 
such as gout, toothache, acute rheumatism, strangury, 
or that caused by the severe punishments amongst 
certain peoples. 

This practical dread of pain has forced man, 
without being aware of it, to throw himself impul- 
sively in an opposite direction, and to attach himself 
ingenuously to the small number of pleasures allotted 
to him by Nature. 

For this same reason he has increased, extended, 
fashioned, and finally worshipped them ; for, in the 
idolatrous ages, for many centuries, all the pleasures 
were secondary deities, presided over by superior 
gods. 

The severity of modem religions has destroyed all 
those patrons : Bacchus, Love, Comus, Diana, no 
longer exist except in poetical tradition ; but the 
thing still exists, and, under the most serious of all 
forms of belief, men feast occasionally at a marriage, 
a baptism, and even a funeral. 

Origin of the Pleasures of the Table, 

71. — Meals, in the sense that we give to this 
word, commenced in the second era of the human 
race, that is to say, when it ceased to live on fruits. 
The preparation and the distribution of foods ren- 



232 MEDITATION XIV. 

dered necessary a meeting of the family, when the 
heads distributed to their children the product of the 
chase, and adult children rendered in their turn the 
same service to their aged parents. 

These meetings, limited at first to the nearest 
relations, little by little have been extended to neigh- 
bours and friends. 

Later, and when the human race had spread, 
the weary traveller came and sate himself down at 
these primitive repasts, and related what had hap- 
pened in distant countries. Thus hospitality was 
bom, with its rights held sacred among all peoples ; 
for there is no one, however savage, who does not 
consider it a duty to respect the life of him with whom 
he has consented to share bread and salt. 

It was during such meals that languages were bom 
or improved, either because it was an occasion for 
meeting one another which took place often, or 
because the leisure during and after repasts disposes 
naturally to confidence and to loquacity. 

Difference between the Pleasure of Eatings and the 
Pleasures of the Table, 

72. — Such must have been, from the nature of 
things, the main-springs of the pleasures of the table, 
which we must distinguish from the pleasures of eat- 
ing, its necessary antecedent. 

The pleasure of eating is the actual and direct 
sensation of a want which is satisfied. 

The pleasure of the table is a reflex sensation that 



THE PLEASURES OF THE TABLE. 233 

arises from the various circumstances of facts, places, 
things, and persons present during the repast. 

The pleasure of eating we have in common with 
animals ; it only supposes hunger, and what is neces- 
sary to satisfy it 

The pleasure of the table is peculiar to the human 
species ; it supposes care bestowed beforehand on 
the preparations of the repast, on the choice of the 
place and the assemblage of guests. 

The pleasure of eating requires, if not hunger, at 
least appetite ; the pleasure of the table is most often 
independent of both. 

These two different kinds of pleasure can always 
be observed in our banquets. 

At the first course, at the commencement of the 
meal, every one eats eagerly without speaking, with- 
out paying attention to what is said ; and whatever 
the rank may be the guest occupies in society, every- 
thing is forgotten, and he becomes merely a workman 
in the grand manufactory. But when the natural 
wants are satisfied, reflection arises, conversation 
begins, another order of things is inaugurated, and 
he who has hitherto been merely a consumer be- 
comes a more or less agreeable guest, according to 
the means which the Master of all things has bestowed 
upon him. 

Effects. 

73. — The pleasures of the table do not consist in 

ravishing delight, ecstasies, or transports ; but they 

gain in duration what they lose in intensity, and are 

2 G 



234 MEDITATION XIV. 

especially distinguished by the particular privilege 
they enjoy of disposing us to all others, or at least 
of consoling us for their loss. 

In fact, at the end of a good dinner, both body 
and soul enjoy a particular happiness. 

Physically, whilst the brain is enlivened, the phy- 
siognomy brightens, the colour rises, the eyes sparkle, 
and a pleasant warmth is diffused in every limb. 

Morally, the intelligence becomes sharpened, the 
imagination warms, and witticisms arise and circu- 
late ; and if La Fare and Sainte-Aulaire * descend to 
posterity with a reputation of being authors brimful 
of wit, they owe it above all to the fact that they 
were pleasant guests. 

Moreover, we often find assembled round the same 
table all the modifications that a highly developed 
sociability has introduced amongst us — love, friend- 
ship, business, speculation, influence, solicitations, 
patronage, ambition, intrigue. This is why con- 
viviahty affects everything : this is why it produces 
fruits of every savour. 

Artificial Accessories. 

74. — An immediate consequence of these antece- 
dents is that the concentration of the whole human 
industry tends to augment the duration and the in- 
tensity of the pleasures of the table. 

• Charles Auguste, Marquis de la Fare (1614-1713), wrote some 
fugitive pieces of poetry and several memoirs. Francois-Joseph de 
Beaupoil, Marquis de Sainte-Aulaire (1643-1742), is known by a few 
madrijjals and other poetic trifles, and, on the strength of these, was 
elected a member of the French Academy, in his sixtieth year.— Jr. 



THE PLEASURES OF THE TABLE. 2^$ 

Poets complain that the neck is too short, and, 
therefore, a hindrance to the duration of the pleasure 
of taste ; others deplore the small capacity of the 
stomach, and some even have spared it the duty of 
digesting the first meal, in order to have the pleasure 
of swallowing a second. 

This was the supreme effort attempted in order 
to increase the enjoyments of taste ; but if, in that 
direction, men were unable to cross the limits fixed 
by Nature, they devoted themselves to the acces- 
sories which at least offered us more scope. 

Vases and glasses were ornamented with flowers, 
which flowers also crowned the guests : they ate under 
the vault of Heaven, in gardens, in groves, in the 
presence of all the marvels of Nature. 

To the pleasure of the table were joined the 
charms of music and the sound of instnmients. 
Thus, while the courtiers of the king of the Pha^acians 
regaled themselves, the singer Phaeemius celebrated 
the deeds of the warriors of past times.* 

Often, too, dancers, acrobats, and mimes of both 
sexes and in every costume, came to occupy the eyes 
without lessening the pleasures of taste ; the most 
exquisite perfumes were spread around. Guests were 
even waited upon by beauty unveiled, so that every 
sense was appealed to, and enjoyment became uni- 
versal 

I might fill many pages to prove what I advance. 

* In Homer's Odyssey, the inhabitants of Corcyros are called 
Phaeacians, after their king AlcinoOs, the son of Phaeax. Phaeemius 
was an Ionian poet, and one of Penelope's suitors.— Tr. 



236 MEDITATION XIV. 

Greek and Roman authors as well as our old chroni- 
cles are at hand to copy from; but these researches 
have been already made, and my easy erudition would 
have little merit. I therefore give as facts what other 
authors have proved : it is a right that I shall use 
often, and for which the reader will thank me. 

The Eighteenth and Nineteenth Centuries, 

75. — We have adopted, more or less according to 
circumstances, various methods of enjoyment, and by 
new discoveries we have somewhat increased their 
number. No doubt the delicacy of our manners 
could not permit the " vomitoria " of the Romans ; 
but we have done better, and have accomplished the 
same object by a method allowed by good taste. 

Dishes of such attractive flavours have been in- 
vented that they unceasingly renew the appetite ; 
they are at the same time so light, that they flatter 
the palate without loading the stomach. Seneca 
would have called them nubes esculentas. 

We have, indeed, arrived to such a point in 
cooker)', that if the calls of business did not force us 
to rise from the table, or if the want of sleep did not 
so frequently interpose, the duration of repasts would 
be almost unlimited, and there would be no certain 
evidence for finding out what time might elapse 
between the first glass of Madeira and the last glass 
of punch. 

Besides, it must not be thought that «ill these 
accessories are indispensably necessary to constitute 
the pleasures of the table. We may enjoy this 



THE PLEASURES OF THE TABLE. 237 

pleasure in nearly all its extent, every time when the 
four following conditions are combined: cheer, at 
least passable, good wine, pleasant guests, and plenty 
of time. 

Thus, I often wished I had been present at the 
frugal repast that Horace destined for the neighbour 
he would have invited, or for the guest whom bad 
weather had obliged to seek shelter under his roof; 
namely, a fine fowl, a kid, probably fat, and a 
dessert of raisins, figs, and walnuts. With these 
dishes, some wine of the Manlius vintage (na^a 
mecum cotisule Manlio)^ and the conversation of 
this voluptuous poet, methinks I should have enjoyed 
a most comfortable supper. 

" But when some neighbour, after long delay, 
Came to me idle on a rainy day, 
A grateful guest, we feasted, well content 
With chicken and a kid, and never sent 
For fish to town, but dined, and often tried 
A nut, a double fig, and grape well dried."* 

It is thus that at any time, yesterday or to-morrow, 
half-a-dozen friends may regale on a boiled leg of 
mutton and kidneys of Pontoise,t washed down with 
some limpid wine of Orleans and M^doc, and spend 
the evening in talk, full of freedom and enjoyment, 
and in entire forgetfiilness of more elegant dishes 
and more skilful cooks. 

On the contrary, however choice may be the good 

* Horace *' Satires," bk. ii., sat a.— Tr. 

f One of the largest cattle-markets of France was held at Pontoise, a 
town ixi the department of Seine-et-Oise.— Tr. 



238 MEDITATION XIV. 

cheer, however sumptuous may be its accessories, 
there can be no pleasure at the table if the wines are 
bad, the guests brought together without discrimina- 
tion, the faces sad, and the dinner eaten hurriedly. 

A Sketch, 

" But," the impatient reader will probably exclaim, 
"how then, in this year of grace 1825, is any feast 
to be spread so as to unite all the conditions neces- 
sary to the highest pleasures of the table ? " 

I will answer this question. Readers, please be 
attentive : Gasterea,* the fairest of the muses, inspire 
me ; I shall be as clear as an oracle, and my 
precepts will live for centiuies. 

" Let the niunber of guests not exceed twelve, so 
that the conversation may be constantly general. 

" Let them be so chosen that their occupations are 
various, their tastes analogous, and with such points 
of contact that one need not have recourse to that 
odious formality of introductions. 

"Let the dining-room be brilliantly lighted, the 
cloth as white as snow, and the temperature of the 
room from sixty to sixty-eight degrees of Fahrenheit. 

" Let the men be witty and not pedantic, and the 
women amiable without being too coquettish. t 

" Let the dishes be exquisitely choice, but snudl in 
number, and the wines of the first quality, each in its 
degree. 

* An invocation to this Muse is found in Meditation XXX. — Tk. 
t I write this in Paris, between the Palais- Koyal and the Chauss^e 
d'Antifl. 



THE PLEASURES OF THE TABLE. 239 

" Let the dishes be served from the more substan- 
tial to the lighter ; and from the simpler wines to 
those of finer bouquet. 

" Let the eating proceed slowly, the dinner being 
the last business of the day, and let the guests look 
upon themselves as travellers who journey together 
towards a common object. 

" Let the coffee be hot, and the liqueurs be specially 
chosen. 

" Let the drawing-roonq^to which the guests retire, 
be large enough to permit those who cannot do with- 
out it, to have a game of cards, while leaving, however, 
ample scope for post-prandial conversation. 

" Let the guests be detained by social attraction, 
and animated with expectation that before the even- 
ing is over, there will be some further enjoyment. 

" Let the tea not be too strong, the toast artistically 
buttered, and the punch made with care. 

" Let the signal for departure not be given before 
eleven o'clock. 

" Let every one be in bed at midnight." 

If any man has ever been a guest at a repast uniting 
all these conditions, he can boast of having been pre- 
sent at his own apotheosis ; and he will have enjoyed 
it the less in proportion as these conditions have been 
forgotten or neglected. 

I have already said that the pleasure of the table, 
as I have described it, is susceptible of rather a long 
duration ; I am about to prove this by giving a true 
and circumstantial account of the longest repast I ever 
made in my life. This is a sweetmeat I present to 



240 MEDITATION XIV. 

the reader to recompense him for the courteous atten- 
tion he devotes to my Handbook. 

Here it is : — 

At the bottom of the Rue de Bac in Paris there 
lived a family, of which the members, relatives of 
mine, were: Dr. Dubois, seventy-eight years old; the 
captain, seventy-six years ; and their sister Jeannette, 
seventy-four. I often went to visit them, and they 
always received me most kindly. 

"By Jove," said the dgptor one day, rising on 
tip-toe to tap me on the Moulder, "you have for a 
long time been bragging about yoMx fondues^ or eggs 
beaten up with cheese, you continually made our 
mouths water; it is time to put a stop to all this. 
We will come, the captain and myself, and breakfast 
with you some day, and we shall see what sort of 
thing this dish is." (It was about the year 1801, I 
think, that he thus teased me.) " I shall be most 
happy," I replied, " and you shall have one in all its 
glory, for I shall make it myself. Your proposal 
delights me. So to-morrow at ten, military punctu- 
ality." 

At the hour appointed, I saw both my guests arrive, 
clean shaven, their hair nicely arranged and well 
powdered ; two little old men still hale and hearty. 
They smiled with pleasure on seeing the table laid, 
with a snow-white tablecloth, and in each one's place 
two dozen oysters with a bright golden lemon. At 
each end of the table stood a bottle of Sauteme, 
carefully wiped, excepting the cork, which showed 
distinctly that it had been in the cellar for a long 



THE PLEASURES OF THE TABLE. 241 

while. Alas ! I have seen disappear, or nearly so, 
those breakfasts, formerly so common and so cheerful, 
where oysters were swallowed by thousands. They 
have disappeared with the eUfb^s who never ate less 
than a gross, and with the chevaliers who never 
stopped. I regret them but as a philosopher : for 
time modifies governments, and, therefore, must 
greatly influence simple social usages. 

After the oysters, which were quite fresh, came 
some broiled kidneys, a- terrine of foie-grasy a pie 
with truffles, and finally iht fondue. 

The different ingredients had all been' assembled 
in a stewpan, which was placed on the table over 
a chafing-dish, heated with spirits of wine. I com- 
menced operations on the field of battle, and my 
cousins did not lose a single one of my movements. 

They were loud in the praises of this preparation, 
and asked me to let them have the receipt, which I 
promised them, telling them at the same time two 
anecdotes which the reader will probably read farther 
on. 

After the fondue came the fruits in season and 
sweets, a cup of genuine Mocha, made i la Dubellqy 
— a way of preparing coffee which begins to be 
known — ^and finally two sorts of liqueurs, one a spirit 
for cleansing, and the other an oil for softening. 

The breakfast over, I proposed to my guests to 

take a little exercise, and to take a turn round my 

room, a room which, without being sumptuous is 

pretty large and comfortable, and where my friends 

would find themselves so much the more at home, as 

2 H 



»- ' •«- • i» •^* 



MLbi'JATION X:v. 

iUj.'b date fro'M the rc'v^ of Loui^r 



\ u Kci aiiij'rf,* b) CtiiiiurL. and her 

:, ... ■...uiure by A*j;"-**:Ii. T\\v\ were s(' 
.. » ^ .* ihal tlie (i*^ vjr, villi his thick hpi. 

V -.i . -A.i, and the ca;^iari look on tiit- bu>: 

3 .iiiUr hlxrty for vhi'h I lK>xed hij* 

. . » ,*.:\ utlinirer of iKe on;,':nal wcrt- to do 

.. .\.^ :»vv>iini, bO vol'jptuously rounded, would 
V -. .K >-*a\i: aiaie aj> the big toe of St. J'cter? 
., ,!.,:» ihu ijilgriini lia\e kissed so much 
», 1. , >!,«iiicned it. 

. . . ^.-^ >!.»«vvi:d them ^aitb of tht best ancient 
.^ X .. ., juunini^b not wiUiout merit, m> p-uns, 
...^,,umcntb, and be\eral beautiful editions 
* .. ,, j> ,^'i^n workb. 

V V . X .,\.ahu voya;^e tJiey did not forget the 
\, V \ ilumtrd th<*in my efonomicaJ slork- 
. - n4 apparatub, my c Jo< k work lum-spit, 
^ . . .vi. Thty examined e\erytliinf; with 

. ,\, bcin^ the more astonished as*, at 

I , •», ever) tiling N^a** still done as it used 

Av' ut the Hv',Hti< y.t 

• uut vUien wt' wcie about to enter the 

I u birui k two </( lo( k. *' Confound 

^ •• « U/77''*'4 /)i " <«I»'>»jt«^ l>e:iiily in French 

.« t li> (he l.lu (n ''J' ii,ri .s. s,u ti jtA C^iAtcau- 

• x-ilibia, wliw u»c<i lu Vivit bcr m: Lex m:^ kt l\ic 

\ Uiiic when tlj«* <li«-»<>!iHr I)*jVc, rh.!:p of Orlean*., 
>. iitu uiKioniy *>f Loiiii XV., i» fxv>m j-u Sc]>tcm- 



THE PLEASURES OF THE TABLE. 243 

it ! " cried the doctor, " this is our dinner hour, and 
our sister Jeannette will be waiting for us ; we must 
go; I do not feel very hungry, but I always like to 
have a plate of soup about this time. This is such 
an old habit, that if a day passes without taking it, I 
say with Titus : Diem perdidi P^ " My dear doctor," 
I answered him, " why go so far to find that which 
you have close at hand ? I shall send some one to 
my cousin to tell her that you are staying a little 
longer with me, and that you do me the honour of 
sharing my dinner, for which, I trust, you will make 
some allowances, as it will not have all the merits of 
a impromptu got up in plenty of leisure- time." 

Then an occular consultation was held by the two 
brothers, followed by formal consent. I at once sent 
a messenger to the Faubourg St. Germain ; I gave a 
hint to my cook, and after a very reasonable interval, 
what with his own resources, and what with those of 
the neighbouring restaurants, he served us up a little 
dinner very well prepared, and very nice. 

It gave me great gratification to see the self-posses- 
sion and coolness with which my two friends sat down, 
unfolded their napkins, and made ready to begin. 

They met with two surprises, which I myself did 
not anticipate, Parmesan served with the soup, and 
a glass of dry Madeira afterwards. These two novel- 
ties had recently been imported by Prince Talleyrand,* 

* Charles Maurice de TaIleyrand>Perigord, Prince of Benevent 
(1754-1838), began life as Bishop of Autun, became a celebrated diplo- 
matist, and was for a long period French minister of foreign affairs. He 
was married to Mrs. Grant, the widow of an Englishman, and a lieo- 
tenant in the service of the former East India Company. "Tx. 



244 MEDITATION XIV. 

the first of our diplomatists, to whom we owe so many 
delicate, witty, and profound sayings, and to whom 
the public always looked with special interest, whether 
he was in power or in retirement. 

Dinner passed very comfortably, as well in its sub- 
stantial part as in the accessories, and my friends 
were both agreeable and merry. 

After dinner I proposed a game of cards which my 
guests refused, preferring the far ntenU of the Italians, 
as the captain said ; so we seated ourselves around 
the fireplace. 

In spite of the charms of the far niente^ I have 
always thought that nothing enhances more the plea- 
sures of conversation than any occupation that does 
not engross the attention, so I proposed a cup of tea. 

Tea was then a novelty to French people of the old 
school. Nevertheless it was accepted. I made it in 
their presence, and they took several cups with all the 
more pleasure, as they had always considered it a 
kind of medicine. 

A long experience has taught me that one indulgence 
begets another, and that as soon as a man has once 
entered this path, he loses the power of refusing. 
Thus it was in an almost imperative tone that I pro- 
posed to finish with a bowl of punch. " You will kill 
me," said the doctor. " You will make us drunk," 
said the captain. To which I only replied by shout- 
ing for lemons, sugar, and rum. 

I then made the punch, and while I was so occu- 
pied, I ordered some very thin slices of toast with 
some nice salt butter to be got ready. This time 



THE PLEASURES OF THE TABLE. 245 

my cousins made some objections. They assured 
me that they had already eaten enough, that they 
could not touch them; but as I knew well enough 
the attraction of this simple dish, I replied that I only 
hoped there would be enough. And, in fact, a short 
time after the captain took the last slice of toast, and 
I observed him look to see whether there was not 
some toast left, or if no more were forthcoming, so 
I sent immediately for another supply. 

Meanwhile time had not stood still, and my clock 
showed that it was past eight "We really must 
go,'' said my guests ; *< we really must go, and take a 
little salad with our poor sister, who has not seen us 
all day." 

To that I made no objection, and faithful to the 
duties of hospitality towards two such agreeable old 
gentlemen, I accompanied them to their carriage and 
saw them leave. 

Some one will ask whether one did not feel bored 
at any time during so long a sitting. I answer in the 
negative ; the attention of my guests was kept up by 
the preparation of the fondue^ by the walk through 
my room, by some novelties in the dinner, by the 
tea, and, above all, by the punch, which they had 
never before tasted. 

Besides, the doctor knew the pedigrees of all the 
Parisians and several anecdotes about them. The 
captain had spent part of his life in Italy, both as a 
military man and as an envoy at the Court of Parma ; 
and I myself have travelled much. We talked with- 
out pretence, and listened to each other with pleasure. 



246 



MEDITATION XIV. 



No more is needed to make time pass pleasantly and 
quickly. 

Next morning I received a note from the doctor, 
to lell me thai the little debauch of the previous day 
had done his brother and him no harm, but, on the 
contrary, that after a pleasant sleep they had risen 
fresh, hearty, and quite willing to begin anew. 





MEDITATION XV. 

HALTS OF A SHOOTING PARTY. 



76. — Amid all the circumstances of life, when 
eating is considered as something important, one of 
the most delightful is undoubtedly halts for luncheon 
at a shooting-party. Of all known pauses, this is 
the only one that can be prolonged to any extent 
without becoming tiresome. 

After some hours of exercise, the most vigorous 
sportsman feels a want of rest. His lace has been 
caressed by the morning breeze ; he has shown 
his skill as opportunity offered, the sun is near 
the loftiest point of its course, therefore the sports- 
man is going to halt for several hours, not from 
excess of fatigue, but from that instinctive impulse 



that f^a/-h^^ him fhat aW human acrivity has its 

limits. 

.^h^^-V ;4tfr;jr-f^ him ; hi* rftriine^ on the nirt and 
th^ m-irmnr <»( a n/'i^hr/-,»ir.r.'^ «ioiircc invites hirn :a 
f\\p in it fh^ fl^^!c int^nrlr^.rj tr> qnenr.h his, thiraL* 

Thtis plH'-M, h^. tA<ft% out wi*h a tranY-il pleasure 
thf* Iitrlr ^Md^n-mstr/I rolU, unroven the cold fowl 
<?'»Tf»^ frif ndly hand h;i? ^fow^d in hii ba^, and pu3 
^(Mif^ n^^r if thfi pir/^ft of Oru)^;re or Roquefort 
fhf^f'^^^ whKh i^ to rtprt'ifTit the dc<>scrt. 

Whil^ th^ ^p<»rt«;m;in rn;ikr» those preparations he 
j«9 n/rf hIoti/' ; hf* h fif ( ftmpun'icd by the faithfiil 
nnirfi;il th,it UcAvrn ha^ frcatcd for his use. His 
* r'MH hint; doj/ IiK>k«3 a ffrrf innately at his master. A 
j^int hiliotir hti<$ fillrd tip the ^ap which separated 
thf-m ; thry nrp two frirnd«», Jind the servant is both 
Imppv nn'1 pfoiid fo brccime his master's guest. 

Mipiiq h nn npprtitr c(|ually unknown to world- 
\U\i*'i rtinl pituiq proplo : to tlio first, because they do 
tttit nllnw hiin^:rt llmr »o romc» to the hitter, because 
Oipv hPvrr ijivc ihrni^rlvrn up to the exercises which 
jmimImi f^ it. 

I Up \\yof\\ \\(\n brrn Irtkrn with delight ; each has 
hid hli «linir» (ind r\nvthn>g hu"« gone on in order 
rthd |M -1. o \\\\\ qIimuUI one not lake a nap for a 
m\\m\ wUWv T N»»»»M i« rtUt* an hour of rest for the 
\\h(di> \ u iM»«M 

I )u -V •tu^jdv. yU \^\\\\% AW im «r4^cd tenfold if 
-h'H^d U\ \\\ss\\ |v^»^sU» t\M» u\ ttut vMsc, a more 



HALTS OF A SHOOTING PARTY. 249 

copious repast has been brought into those military 
canteen-boxes, now employed in a more pleasant 
manner, and people talk gaily of the prowess of one, 
the blunders of another, and their expectations for 
the afternoon. 

What would it be, then, if attentive servants should 
arrive laden with those vases consecrated to Bacchus, 
in which an artificial cold freezes at one and the same 
time Madeira, the juice of the strawberry and of pine- 
apples ; these delicious drinks, these divine prepara- 
tions, which send through the veins a delightful fresh- 
ness, and carry in every direction a luxury unknown 
to the profane.* 

But even this is not the limit of the ascending 
series of enchantments. 

The Ladies. 

77. — There are days when our wives, our sisters, 
our cousins, and their lady friends, are invited to take 
part in our amusements. 

At the appointed hour we see arrive light carriages 
and prancing horses, loaded with the fair, all feathers 
and flowers. The style in which these ladies are 

* My friend Alexandre Delessert was the first who put into use this 
practice, full of pleasure. 

We were shooting at Villeneuve under a burning sun, the thermometer 
was about seventy-two degrees Fahrenheit in the shade. 

Thus transported to the torrid zone, he took care to let his servants 
meet us with leather bags full of ice, in which was everything that 
could be desired, either to refresh or comfort us. We made our choice 
and felt ourselves revive. 

I am tempted to believe that the application of so fresh a liquid to 
thirsty tongues and parched throats causes the most delicious sensation 
that may be tasted without committing any sin. 

2 I 



/• _, 



' • -» *^ •'. <,♦•-.. .'.' -r'" !-*-. ^''.' . H' -Ti r^ les- 
.* -^- • -' i-. 1 ' J' -i" r -■-•: •." t..»- ^1 .TifTMr: z^htli" 

' * ' "\ »-'••*' -- :•. 11 r /::k ..,•::;. Jtmii-j. rcn- 

^*../i ,,.►«.;:«' »y«.'/' r'.u'H v^x'*rt i:vif^ -lit cnastt 
/ ,^.* .,^ ;.Mi .1 i*^.'' <■. 5;j««;iiMi'» iiiJt vimumvT for 

1* • ' * . J J 

•>♦ x-^.'.f^ ,.^^ ' ••♦.^ 4.../'. vt •.•-<-•. Vit ^•'.'Ci'jtbs li fiir 

<j'>** /, »/ .>^ .*A^». *.'.*/ '.'/. t«,-V .'-iii Vf.. Stt tilt 

..i .^ , ^^ J, .', , *.*. !..,,«. ///,./ •//'> i.*:'i ujyyn. They 
/i .// *.*''//>*. j./ • .v,<'i '/^ a fi<a«;^ii a!» amubing as 

.■!,</ r,i .),< . |(/ </' 1 'H^j iiitn>J it lilt i<:V/ifll. 

* \i, , it.' i ','• -J ii.( I ( ^ c, Mm : li«4.Ai/irtl/(e f/i lh<y«c who fell to 

( .1 .., i'l I I ..) ' >. <i I I V • ( 1 1 1/^ ti<k i«<>r'<H, as Silrnr, klie "%!ecp% 

JM I . )^i<<> > •■ir<l V > J 1 >«■ I Lb uAMi«4.ti.'' i'^ti'lyiiiion, according 

I I <• < < K.^it. 1 ,. / »••• il<- •i<(r < I, uLKiUtuncii 1(4 cveilubtini; youlb^ 

Mil I Ml ll" IK H I • Itl I'' '1^ 1 t> 

) I > ••■ I !• > .ii (I// i<',/i, tt i.t.ls.hialt;ti liuiitter, and one of the 
I- ( |Mit li 't l<oi'l ilii <*un.(it<>«ii I'tciiuit aiiiti, w»tb irealed a baron 
III iMi J lint. ><| hu U'4i |<Miiiiiti|^.> u ** i'UiiH MitU |].i)dyiniun."-"TK. 




MEDITATION XVI. 

ON DIGESTION. 



78. — "We do not live by what we eat," says an 
old proverb, " but by what we digest." We must 
then digest in order to live, and this necessity is a 
law which makes its power be felt by rich and poor, 
by the shepherd and (he king. 

But how few people know what is going on when 
they digest. Most men are like M. Jourdain,* who 

• M. jDuidain ii the cblef cluncter in MoMtrc't Bsurgra-i diUil- 
i^mmr. He iiutldciHi'lndaiBinwhs has suddenly become lOuenl, 
■nd ivhOi in order (o educate himieLf, eo^gei dancing-niAitent fencing- 
Diuterf, ceuhen of philosophy, etc When one of th« Utter teLli hiu 
iho diSerenu helween poetir ind pn»e, M. JovnlUB uyt be nenr 
kiinirhcludbeenBlltlndniHnllhiilifeiillhiiiiraleaateldbiM.— Te. 



««^k>Va in f»r<s«;^ with<%nt Yv^in'j^ aware of it, and it is 
t*r) \hr^f ,^//'/»Mr>t \]).\t f <h,*ll ;f;vft a popular arxo lint 
<.< rli/rs»w.n, i«< f f^^l rrr'.i.n that M. Jourdain was 
fM'i' )> M>^^r^ *»fi,t.^il whrn ;iv<5tirfrl by the philosopher 
fl»i» \v)) It !»<• <|»'.kr- wK rrrr.iinly prose. 

(o f»n/lrr>M»»/l <\\//^tinT\ iTi iu entirety, wc must 
^oTinf^'t if vvifli ir< /w»t^^r/I^nt< and itA consequences. 

ytj AJ»|^Mlf^, Iiiin.^rr, and thirst, warn ns that 
f»i^ ImmIv f»»^.fU f^» lif fr«;forr<l, and pain, that universal 
fMf.Miffif, (4 M<if ql/iw in tormenting iw if wc do not 

n»'M» ^ f.'i»»M|j 'tnd (hifikin^, which constitute inges- 
iJ'tfi, Mft ii)>M')ti(iM th'tt n»nini«'tu<"H at the moment 
iv».»M IlijMJiU f\u\yh ill ihi-i intiuth, and finish when 

|»»mImi« iIi(4 |*'i44.ti',»v, whit h ii only a few inches 

\h*u^, hi'Mty lltlii|<4 iM « III 

I h»« liiih dUiiUt 'ihd MMiintihutc the solid food; 
\\ih tm»Ih»m i^ImuU (ti'U i^•\♦^^ tht^ lunrr inouth moisten 
M r ^i«^< l<«ttt«iit» till 114 •itxtkit ttu^ tood to mix it, and 
j4j ♦....».- u 0(|.M .♦»"*!»»«» iti^v |».iUt\^ i\» fxprtrss the juice 
•Mt'i luH'li'li lii »».*M«i»i III |>iM(oitnin^ this function, 
Hii' h««»i:»»i. ii«tiu<>« ll»v» U*Md hi a pulpy mass in the 
lui'lilli^ id 0*i» luunili I and thcM^ Hupp<>itin^ itself 
I*,. ♦U4-i \U\* \\is\K'\ \'{\\^ It hitt up ii^t vviu I ul portion, 
-u \U\\ \\ It'iuw 4t tu i\»ot i^ dv\ huly ihunu^h which 



ON DIGESTION. 255 

the food slips into the back part of the mouth, where 
it is received by the pharynx, which, contracting in 
its turn, propels it into the oesophagus, of which the 
peristaltic motion conducts it into the stomach. 

One mouthful being thus treated, a second follows 
in the same manner; the liquids swallowed in the 
moments of rest take the same route, and deglutition 
continues until the same instinct that we have called 
ingestion warns us that it is time to conclude. But 
it is rare that one obeys the first injunction, for one 
of the privileges of the human fpecies is that of 
drinking without being thirsty. In the existing state 
of the culinary art, cooks make us eat without being 
hungry. 

Every bit which arrives at the stomach has escaped, 
through a very remarkable contrivance, two dangers. 

The first is, that it should pass into the nasal fossa ; 
but happily the hanging down velum palate and the 
construction of the pharynx oppose this. 

The second danger is, that it should fall into the 
windpipe, over which all our food passes. This 
would be much more serious, for, as soon as any 
foreign body enters the windpipe, a convulsive cough 
sets in, which does not end till it is thrown out. 

But by an admirable mechanism, the glottis is 
closed when we swallow. It is defended by the 
epiglottis, which covers it, and we possess a certain 
instinct which leads us to refrain from breathing 
while we swallow. So that generally we may say 
that, in spite of this strange conformation, food 
arrives rapidly in the stomach, which is not swayed 



256 MEDITATION XVI. 

by the will, and where digestion properly so-called 
commences. 

The Duty of the Stomach. 

80. — Digestion is a purely mechanical operation, 
and the digestive apparatus may be considered as a 
mill furnished with its sieves, in order to extract from 
the food all that can be of use to repair our body, and 
to reject the residue deprived of its animalisable parts. 

Long and vigorous disputes have been going on as 
to the manner in which digestion takes place in the 
stomach, and whether it is by coction, maturation, fer- 
mentation, by chemical, vital or gastric dissolution, &c. 

A little of all these operations takes place, and the 
error was in attributing to one agent what was the 
result of several causes necessarily combined. 

In fact, foods, impregnated by the various fluids 
supplied by the mouth and the oesophagus, arrive in 
the stomach, where they are impregnated by the 
gastric juice which is always there ; they are sub- 
mitted for several hours to a temperature of about 
100** of Fahrenheit ; then they are triturated and 
mixed by the organic motion of the stomach, which 
is stimulated by their being there ; they react on one 
another through this juxtaposition, and it is impos- 
sible that then fermentation should not take place, 
as ever^' kind of food femients. 

In consequence of all these operations, chyme is 
elaborated, the alinientar>' layer immediately above 
is the first that is appropriated ; it passes along the 
pylorus and falls into the intestines; another layer 



ON DIGESTION. 257 

succeeds it, and so on, until there is nothing more in 
the stomach, which empties itself as it were by mouth- 
fiils, and in the same manner in which it was filled. 

The pylorus is a sort of fleshy funnel which serves as 
a communication between the stomach and the intes- 
tines ; it is formed in such a manner that food cannot 
reascend it without great difficulty. This important 
viscus is sometimes subject to obstruction, and then 
people die of hunger after a long and frightful agony. 

The intestine which receives the food that leaves 
the pylorus is called the duodenum ; it is so called 
because it is about twelve fingers' breadth in length. 

The chyme, arrived in the duodenum, receives a 
new elaboration by the mixture of intestinal juice, 
bile and pancreatic juice ; it loses its greyish colour 
and the acidity it formerly possessed, becomes yel- 
lowish, and begins to assume a stercoraceous odour, 
which increases the more it moves towards the rectum. 
The various principles of this combination act recipro- 
cally on each other ; the chyle is prepared, and many 
analogous gases are formed. 

The organic movent of impulsion which drives the 
chyle out of the stomach, continues and propels it 
towards the smaller bowels, where the chyle is set 
free, is absorbed by the organs destined for this use, 
and is carried towards the liver to be mixed with the 
blood, which it refreshes by repairing the losses caused 
by the absorption of vital organs, and by transpiratory 
exhalation. 

It is very difficult to explain how chyle, which 

is a white liquor almost without taste or smell, can 

2 K 



258 MEDITATION XVI. 

be extracted from a mass of which the colour, smell, 
and taste, are very marked 

However, the extraction of chyle appears to be 
the real object of digestion, and as soon as it enters 
the circulation, the individual becomes aware of it by 
the conscious increase of vital force and an intimate 
conviction that his bodily losses are repaired. 

After this operation, the chyme, deprived of its 
humours, and almost reduced to excrementitious sub- 
stance, journeys on towards the outside ; it is propelled 
by the organic, peristaltic and vermicular motion 
common to the whole digestive system, which makes 
it move by an oblique movement from one wall of 
the intestines to another — a process favoured by the 
various liquids that lubricate it 

It goes successively from the jejunum to the ileum, 
from the ileum to the caecum, from the caecum to the 
the colon, and from the colon to the rectum, thus 
going over a route that sometimes is more than thirty 
feet long, that is to say, nearly six times the height of 
a human being. 

In this downward journey, the chyme, although 
always rather liquid, gradually takes a yellowish 
brown colour. Arrived in the ca,xum, it becomes 
more or less stercoraceous, and increases in consis- 
tenc>', either through the temperature of the intestines, 
or through their recrementitial absorption. 

The excrementitious substance arrives at the end 
of the rectum, and is stopped there by the resistance 
of the sphincter, a circular muscle that closes the 
entry, almost hke the string of a bag-purse. There it 



ON DIGESTION. 259 

is obliged to stop several hours more or less, accord- 
ing to the particular disposition of the individual. 

Nevertheless two causes soon concur to eject it ; it 
is propelled by other excrementitious substances that 
take the same route, and the excitation its presence 
produces makes those intestines constringe which can 
be moved by the action of will. The caput mortuum 
obeys these movements, forces the sphincter, moulds 
itself on its opening, is expelled and does not leave 
us without a sensation of pleasure, bestowed by Nature 
on the satisfaction of any want. 

The intestines are the home of tempests ; in them 
is formed gas, as in the clouds ; ox>'gen is found 
in them, whilst the fat produces hydrogen and 
carbon. The foods of the animal kingdom give 
nitrogen ; an unknown process generates sulphur and 
phosporus, and hence those emissions of sulphuretted 
hydrogen of which the effects are known by every one, 
but of which the author is never known. 

The digestion of liquids is much less complicated 
than that of solid foods, and may be explained in a 
very few words. 

The alimentary part which is found in suspension is 
joined to the chyme, and undergoes all its vicissitudes. 

Liquid substances are absorbed by the vessels of the 
stomach, and thrown into circulation. Thence they are 
carried by the emulgent arteries towards the kidneys, 
which filter and elaborate them bymeans of the ureters,* 
which take them into the bladder in the form of urine. 

* The ureters are two canals as thick as a goose quill that i<sue 
from each of the kidneys, and end in the posterior part of the neck of 
the bladder. 



26o MEDITATION XVI. 

Arrived at the last stage, and though also kept 
back by a sphincter, urine does not stop there long ; 
its exciting action makes a want to be felt, and a 
voluntary constriction ejects it by well-known canals 
of irrigation which are never named. 

Digestion is of a longer or shorter duration, accord- 
ing to the particular disposition of the individual. 
Nevertheless the average time may be given at about 
seven hours, namely, a little more than three hours 
in the stomach, and the other time for the journey as 
far as the rectum. 

After they have read this chapter, which I have 
culled from the best authors, and of which I have 
omitted all dry anatomical and abstract scientific 
terms, my readers will pretty well be able to judge 
of the place where the last repast they have taken 
should be — namely : during the three first hours in 
the stomach ; later on in the intestinal canal, and 
after seven or eight hours in the rectum, waiting 
to be ejected. 

Influence of Digestion, 

8 1. — Digestion is of all the bodily functions the one 
which affects most the moral state of the individual. 

This assertion should not astonish any one, as it is 
impossible it could be otherwise. 

The most elementary principles of psychology 
tell us that the mind is only impressed by means of 
the organs which are subjected to it, and put it in 
communication with external objects ; hence it follows 
that when these organs are in bad condition, out of 



ON DIGESTION. 26 1 

• 

order or irritated, this change must exercise an in- 
fluence on the sensations, which are the intermediary 
and occasional means of intellectual operations. 

Thus, the habitual manner in which digestion is 
performed, and especially in its later stages, makes 
us habitually sad, gay, taciturn, talkative, morose or 
melancholy, without our even suspecting it, and above 
all without our being able to prevent it. 

Thus, all civilised human beings, with regard to 
this, are divided into three great categories, the 
regulars, the confined, and the loose ones. 

Experience has proved that every one of those 
beings, in those different series, not only has the same 
innate characteristics and propensities as the others, 
but also that there is something analogous and 
similar in the way in which they fulfll the missions 
Fate has allotted to them in their career of life. 

In order to be better understood I shall take an 
example from the vast field of literature. I believe 
that men of letters are most generally indebted to 
their stomach for the kind of literatiu-e they have 
adopted. 

Considered from this point of view, comic poets 
ought to be amongst the regulars, tragic poets 
amongst the confined, and elegiac and pastoral poets 
amongst the loose : hence the most lachrymose poet 
is only separated from the most comic writer by some 
degree of digestive coction. 

At the time when Prince Eugene of Savoy* did so 

* Francois Eugene, Prince de Sarote-Carignan (1663-X736). His 
principal victories over the French were between 1701 and X7X4.— Tr. 



264 MEDITATION XVI. 

that very day I wrote a polite note to the head 
forester, pointing out the complaint, and prescribing 
the remedy. 

The head forester was an old trooper, tall, thin, 
and dark, who could not endure us, and who no 
doubt treated us badly for fear we should take root 
in his territory. 

His reply, therefore, was almost a refusal and full of 
evasions ; the gamekeepers, from fear of oiu* soldiers, 
had fied ; the fishermen were in open rebellion ; the 
rivers were swollen, and so on. To such excellent 
reasons I did not reply, but sent him ten grenadiers 
to be billeted upon him until further orders. 

The remedy was eflfective ; very early next morn- 
ing there arrived a heavily laden cart. The game- 
keepers had no doubt come back, and the fishermen 
had given in, for they brought us game and fish 
enough to regale us for more than a week ; venison, 
woodcocks, carp, and pike — everything in abundance I 

On receiving this expiatory offering, I freed the 
unlucky head-forester of his guests. He came to see 
us, and I soon made him understand common sense ; 
so that, during the rest of our stay in Baden, we could 
only congratulate ourselves on his excellent way of 
treating us.* 

* What would our author have said if he had lived until tAe late 
Franco-German War, when such treatment, as he describes, but this 
time practised by the Germans on the French, was bitterly complained 
of by the latter ?— Tr. 




MEDITATION XVII. 

ON REPOSE. 



82. — Man is not oi^anised to enjoy activity for an 
indefinite lime ; Nature has only destined him to an 
interrupted existence, and after a certain time his 
perceptions cease. This time of activity may be pro- 
longed by varj'ing the sort as well as the nature of the 
sensations he experiences ; but this continuity of 
existence induces him to seek repose. Repose leads 
to sleep, and sleep produces dreams. 

Here we find ourselves at the final limits of 
humanity ; for a man who sleeps is already no longer 
a member of society, — the law stiti protects, but does 
not command him. 

A singular instance of this was told me by Dom 



266 MEDITATION XVII. 

Duhaget, formerly prior of the Carthusian convent of 
Pierre-Chitel.* 

Dom Duhaget was a member of a good Gascon 
family, and had served with distinction, for twenty 
years, as a captain in an infantry regiment ; he was 
also a knight of the order of Saint Louis. I have 
never known any one of more gentle and devout 
piety, and who could converse more agreeably. 

"At . . . where I was prior before coming to 
Pierre-ChAtel," he told me, "there was a monk of 
a very melancholy disposition, and of a gloomy 
character, who was known to walk in his sleep. 

" Sometimes, when he had one of his attacks, he 
left his cell, and came back alone ; at other times 
he lost his way, and people were obliged to bring 
him back again. Several attempts had been made 
to cure him, but in vain ; and, finally, the attacks 
having become less frequent, no one troubled him- 
self more about them. 

"One evening, not having gone to bed at my 
usual hour, I was at my writing-desk, examining 
some papers, when I heard open the door of my 
room, of which I always left the key inside, and 
soon I saw enter this monk in a complete state 
of somnambulism. 

"His eyes were wide -open and staring; his only 
garment was the tunic in which he had gone to 
bed ; and he held a big knife in his hand. 

* Pierre*Ch£teI is the name of a Carthusian convent in the diocese of 
Belley, where our author was burn. This convent still exists, and its 
prior is even now ex officio governor of a fort built there, but chooses an 
officer as his deputy. — Tr. 



ON REPOSE. 267 

" He went straight to my bed, for he knew where 
it was, and, feeling with his hand, seemed to satisfy 
himself that I was really in it. Then he struck 
three heavy blows with so much force that the blade 
penetrated the blankets, and went a good way into 
the mattress, or, to speak more correctly, into the 
matting which served for that purpose. 

"On passing me, his countenance was disturbed, 
and his brows were knit; but after he had struck 
the blows, he turned back, and I observed that he 
looked calmer and seemed satisfied. 

"The light of two lamps on my desk made no 
impression on his eyes, and he returned as he came, 
opening and closing carefully the two doors that led 
to my cell, and I soon convinced myself that he had 
gone straight and quietly to his own. 

"You can imagine," continued the prior, "the 
state I was in whilst this terrible apparition lasted. 
I trembled and was horrified at the danger I had 
escaped, for which I thanked Providence ; but my 
emotion was such that I could not by any possibility 
close my eyes for the remainder of the night 

" Next day I sent for the monk, and asked him 
curtly what he had been dreaming about the night 
before. 

"He seemed greatly moved when I asked him 
this. * Reverend father,' he replied, * I have had 
so strange a dream that I really feel some difficulty 
in telling you all about it; perhaps it may be the 
work of the devil, and . . .* * I order you to tell 
it,' I replied ; * a dream is always involuntary, and is 



^ i ^*' 



• «« X 



-r 



C» ■ .^ > 



* . .._ *.». i'^..-.' '^-.t. vii: iu:; 



., ,• *-. •' -I'- 



*. » 



^ • «« 



« fc > t' 






.»'* I . • > 



«< X* ** ^ 



... •,< .... t..t ,-»'<y' .•^' ^,t:i 1. .JVC. tij* iv'Timur:'- 



ON REPOSE. 269 

Time for Sleep, 

83. — The general laws imposed on the globe 
which we inhabit have an influence on the human 
race. The alternation of day and night is felt with 
certain varieties over the whole earth, but neverthe- 
less in such a manner that after all the one compen- 
sates for the other, and it naturally indicates the 
time for activity as well as that for repose ; probably 
the wear and tear of our life would not be the same 
if we lived without a change of day or night 

However, when man has enjoyed his existence 
fully for a certain length of time, there comes a 
moment when he can enjoy nothing more ; his 
impressions diminish gradually, the best made at- 
tempts on his senses are ineffectual, the organs 
refuse to perform those functions formally so ardently 
desired, the mind is saturated with sensations ; the 
time for rest has arrived 

It is easy to see that we have considered man as a 
member of society, environed with all the resources 
and the comfort of the higher civilisation ; for this 
desire for repose is felt much sooner and much more 
regularly by those who have fatigued themselves by 
assiduous work in their study, in the workshop, in 
travelling, in war, at the chase, or in any other 
manner. 

To repose, as to every other art for the preserva- 
tion of life. Nature, that excellent mother, has 
added a feeling of pleasure. 

The man who takes rest experiences a happiness 



.hi'.h 



lie d'.wn b>' 



MEDITATTOJI XVIL 



s tmde£nabl 



Iheir 



I-h!, tis 



rifUx, his brain refreshed ; bis senses arc 
hi* Mmsati'ins less keen ; he nHshes for r 
r.'i hm-^KT thinks ; a thin veil is drawn ovci 
A few moments more and he 5l«ps. 





MEDITATION XVIII. 

OF SLEEP. 



84. — Although there are some men so organised 
that it may be almost said that they do not sleep, 
nevertheless, it is generally admitted that the want of 
sleep is as imperious as hunger and thirst. The out- 
posts of an army often fall asleep, even though they 
throw snuff into their eyes ; and Pichegru,* when 
tracked by the police of Buonaparte, gave thirty 
thousand francs for one night's sleep, during which 
he was betrayed and given up. 

■ Clwla PiclKgnl I1761-1S01X ■> ctlebntcd FrEnch genera], wu 
implicated in royiliit plau, CDademnul ud lenl Id Ciyeane, wbcnce 
he eicaped in 1798, ud weni to England tuid to Gtimui)'. He ami 
«Mf«ly 10 Puit lo •muige a n«» plot, irlieii he wu bmai'Bl b» one 
of hii friendi uid pot in ptHon, when one miniiiig ho wu foond 
ilnngled in bis room.— Te. 



27^ MEDITATION XVIII. 

Definition. 

85. — Sleep is that state of torpor in which man, 
separated from external objects by the forced inac- 
tivity of his senses, only leads a mechanical life. 

Sleep, like night, is preceded and followed by two 
twilights, of which the first leads to absolute inertness, 
and the second brings us back to active life. 

Let us endeavour to elucidate these phenomena. 

At the moment when sleep commences, the organs 
of the senses sink little by little into inaction : taste 
first disappears, and afterwards sight and smell ; hear- 
ing is still on the alert, and touch always ; for it has 
to warn us by pain of the dangers that the body may 
run. 

Sleep is always preceded by a more or less volup- 
tuous sensation ; the body sinks with pleasure into it, 
being certain of a prompt restoration, and the mind 
gives itself up to it in confidence, in the hope that its 
means of activity will be revived. 

It is because this sensation, which, nevertheless, 
is so well defined, has not been rightly appreciated, 
that some men of science of the highest order compare 
sleep with death, which all living beings resist with 
all their might, and which has such special symptoms 
that they horrify even animals. 

Like all other pleasures, sleep may become a 
passion, for some persons have been sleeping away 
three-fourths of their life ; and as in all other passions, 
its effects, indolence, weakness, stupidit}', and death, 
are then detrimental. 



OF SLEEP. 273 

The school of Salerno only allowed seven hours 
sleep, without distinction of age or sex.* This rule 
is too severe ; we must grant something more to 
children, who require it, and to women from 
courtesy ; but whenever any one spends more than 
ten hours in bed, it is certain, that he errs in 
excess. 

In the first moments of dawning sleep, the will 
still lasts; one can waken up, but the eye has 
not lost all its power. Non omnibus dortnio^ said 
Maecenas ; f and in this state more than one hus- 
band has acquired far from pleasant certainty. Some 
ideas may be originated in the mind, but they are 
incoherent ; doubtful glimpses of light spring up 
wherein indefinite objects are thought to be hovering 
around us. This condition does not last long ; soon 
everything disappears, all. sensation is over, and we 
fall into an absolute sleep. 

What does the mind do during this time ? It lives 
within itself, it is like a pilot during a calm, like a 
mirror during the night, like a lute that no person 
ever touches, it awaits new sensations. 

But some psychologists, and amongst others Count 

* Salerno, a town on the west coast of Italy, about thirty*four miles 
from Naples by rail, had, nntil the fifteenth century, the most famous 
medical school in Europe. George III. used to say when speaking of 
sleep, *' Six hours are enough for a man, seven for a woman or childt 
and eight for a fool."— Tr. 

t Caius Cilnius Maecenas, a Roman statesman of an equestrian family, 
the friend of the Emperor Augustus, and a patron of the learned men 
and poets of his time. It is said that one day, whilst Augustus was 
visiting him, he fell asleep, whereupon the emperor kissed his wife ; 
but when one of the courtiers tried to imitate his master's example* 
Mxcenas awoke and exclaimed : '* I do not sleep for all." 

2 M 



274 MEDITATIOX XATIIL 

VMi Redem,* maintain that ttc mi=d ce^-er ceases to 
am ; and he gives as a proof the fact that any man 
■.ho is f'/ffiib'y aroused from hii trs: sleep experiences 
a seniation as if he »ere distiirbed in seme occupa- 
tion in which he had been lealouily ^^--^^^^ 

There is really sfimethinj in th:3 obsen-arion 
which desenes to be \erii:ed anenrively. 

Moreoier, this state of absolute ann:hita:ioQ is of 
brief duration, and never exceeds more than five or 
six hours. Littk by li;tle the losses are repaired, a 
va;,'ue sentiment of existence begins to spring up 
a^ain, and the sleeper passes into the realm of 
dreams. 

* Siji.Diurd Etinnrtich, O.ani ran Redtm <irts-i!;>t. 1 Piritui 




.»<*-r. 




MEDITATION XIX. 

OF DREAMS. 



—Dreams are the unilateral impressio 



reach the mind without the assistance of external 

These phenomena, so common, and at the same 
time so extraordinary, are nevertheless still little 
known. 

Our scientific men are to blame for this, for they 
have not yet given us a sufficient number of observa- 
tions. This indispensable help will come in time, 
and the double nature of man will be belter known. 
In the present state of science, it must be taken 
for granted that there exists a fluid, as subtle as 
powerful, which transmits to the brain the impressions 



276 MEDITATION XIX. 

received by the senses, and that ideas arise, stimu- 
lated by such impressions. 

Absolute sleep is caused by the loss or inertness of 
this fluid. Digestion and assimilation do not cease 
during sleep, but repair such losses, so that there 
comes a time when man, possessing already all the 
means of action, is not yet excited by external objects. 

Then the nervous fluid, moveable by its nature, is 
carried to the brain by the nerves in the same places, 
and manner, and by the same route as when awake ; 
it ought therefore to produce the same effects, but 
nevertheless with less intensity. 

The reason of this difference appears not difficult 
to find out. When a man who is awake is impressed 
by an external object, the sensation is precise, quick, 
and requisite; the entire organ is called into play. 
When, on the other hand, this same impression is 
transmitted to the mind during sleep, it is only the 
hinder part of the nerves which is set in motion, and 
the sensation must necessarily be less vivid and less 
positive. 

To make ourselves better understood, we say that 
in a man awake the whole organ is impressed, whilst 
in a man asleep only that part nearest the brain is 
affected. 

Nevertheless, we know that in voluptuous dreams. 
Nature is almost as much gratified as when a person 
is awake, but the difference lies in the organs, for 
the genetic sense only needs one stimulus, and each 
sex has the requisite organs to accomplish the act for 
which it has been created. 



OF DREAMS. 277 

An Investigation to be held. 

^T. — ^When the nervous fluid is thus transported to 
the brain, it always reaches it by channels intended 
for the use of one of our senses, and this is the 
reason why certain sensations are then aroused, or 
certain series of ideas in preference to others. Thus 
we think we see, when the optic nerve is excited ; we 
think we hear, when the auditory nerves are affected, 
and so on ; but we may remark as a singularity, that 
it is very rare that the sensations experienced in 
dreams refer to taste or smell. When we dream of 
a flower-bed or a field, we see the flowers without 
smelling their odours, and when we think we are 
present at a banquet, we see the dishes, but do not 
taste them. 

It would be a task worthy of our scientific men to 
investigate why two of our senses do not impress the 
mind during sleep, whilst the four others possess 
nearly their full power. I do not know any psycho- 
logist who has considered this fact. 

Let us also remark that the more deeply we ex- 
perience aflections in sleep, the more intense they 
become. Thus ideas of the most sensual character 
are nothing compared to the anguish we feel if we 
dream of having lost a dear child, or of going to 
be hanged. For in such a case we awake to find 
ourselves covered with perspiration or bathed in 
tears. 



278 MEDITATION XIX. 

Nature of Dreams, 

88. — However incongruous the ideas are that 
sometimes agitate us during sleep, nevertheless, when 
closely examined, they i^ill be found to be only recol- 
lections, or combinations of recollections. 

Thus I am tempted to say that dreams are but 
the memory of sensations. 

Their strangeness only consists therefore in this, 
that the association of those ideas is unusual, because 
freed from the laws of chronology, propriety, and 
time ; so that, as a final analysis, no one ever dreamt 
of anything that was previously entirely unknown to 
him. 

We shall not be surprised at the peculiarity of our 
dreams, when we reflect that in a man awake four 
faculties direct and reciprocally correct each other, 
namely, sight, hearing, touch, and memory ; whereas, 
in the case of any one who is asleep, each sense is 
abandoned to its own resources. 

I am inclined to compare these two conditions of 
the brain to a piano, before which is seated a musician, 
who, passing carelessly his fingers over the keys, by 
mere reminiscence creates some melody, with which 
he could combine a complete harmony, if he used 
all his faculties. This comparison might be carried 
out much farther, by considering that reflection is to 
ideas what harmony is to sounds, and that certain 
ideas contain others, just as a principal note in a 
chord contains others which are secondary to it, and 
so on. 



OF DREAMS. 279 

System of Doctor Gall, 

89. — Having thus far quietly followed a system 
that is not without interest, I have come to the con- 
fines of the system of Doctor Gall, who teaches and 
maintains the multiformity of organs in the brain. 

I therefore cannot go farther, or transgress the 
limits I have fixed ; nevertheless, for the love of 
science to which it may be seen that I am no stranger, 
I will state here two facts which came to my own 
personal knowledge, and which can be safely relied 
on, as there are among my readers many persons 
who can testify to their truth. 

First Fact, 

About 1790, there lived in a village called Gevrin, 
in the arrondissement of Belley, a very shrewd 
merchant, called Landot, who had scraped together a 
pretty good fortune. 

He was suddenly seized with a severe paralytic 
stroke, so that he was thought to be dead. The 
faculty came to his aid and preserved his life, not 
however without loss, for he left behind him nearly 
all his intellectual faculties, and especially memory. 

Nevertheless, as he was still crawling along as 
well as he could, and had recovered his appetite, he 
continued to manage his own property. 

Those people who formerly had done business 
with him, and who saw him in this state, believed 
that now the time had come to take their revenge, 
and, on the pretext of keeping him company, they 



I«»l»jl »tl/)'J «'»-•. 



» k , I » . .. f I »»** l. »/", 'p" 'J .. . ». «1^ 









» » . 1* •' , • ' • r- ' , • • *• • rT (• - X.. ^ _ ' _« 



, , * ,1 .,« ,, , «../*» «^ .'.«» V*'C it l-.l I-T I-:5- 

f, f \y, f ♦>,/ rA. \\ 'n\ i» <^f'.iift \f. Criir".lp who 
I f ff ^ f'ff.,' 'irr.A. »<i» Ml/- )»*»^1/ ^jii;ird, under Louis 

« / f . «' M •* » ifr> I' f I '»Mi « X V I» 

II f, , I ,., .f ./ n I. *fi'iM,'li ^»f tlift ^rrvicc in which 
I, t J, ,)» 1,^ \,',.\ i.M fi mi/'i,^m1 • IhjI lif: possessed in 
'I ..|f»l.u ^ *I',-»M. M l»iiov\lM)y^r of all sorts of 
, ti, -n Hcfi ffMi mImii(. Ii»\ jil.iyrd w<ll all games 
i ,,,,, «l, iif "I'M*, "♦«. I» im ninliM', (>i(|iict, whist, and 
I (M t I«hI • III M Miiy (M ^ ji'iiiin W.I1 introduced he 
I ti' II >«HI, mHm ItM^lttt; |i|.ivm1 il twi(r. 

i<(,t (ItU ^l ( IiIihI «>'t« itUii Atuuk by paralysis, 



OF DREAMS. 28 1 

• 

and the attack was so severe that he fell into a state 
of nearly absolute insensibility; but two faculties 
were however spared, the power of digestion and his 
skill at cards. 

He used to go every day to a house where he 
was accustomed to play, and sit in a comer, 
motionless and drowsy, without occupying himself 
with anything that took place around him. Just 
before they began to play, he was asked to take 
a hand, and always accepted it ; he crawled to the 
cstfd-table, and there one could perceive that the 
disease which had paralysed the greatest part of his 
faculties had not made him lose one atom of his skill 
at cards. A little time before his death, M. Chirol 
gave us a convincing proof of his undiminished ability 
as a player. 

One day there came to Belley a banker from Paris, 
whose name, I think, was M. Delins. He brought 
several letters of introduction, and as he was a stranger 
and a Parisian, it was more than enough for every 
one in this small town to do his best to make him as 
happy as possible. 

M. Delins was a gourmand, and fond of card-play- 
ing. The first passion he could satisfy easily enough, 
for he was kept at table for five or six hours every day. 
It was more difficult to satisfy his second passion, for 
he was very fond of piquet, and spoke of playing for 
six francs the point, which exceeded, by a great deal, 
the highest sum for which we hq^i ever played. 

To overcome this obstacle, a company was formed, 
in which every one took or did not take a share, 

2 N 



MEDITATION XIX, 

. ij. .U-. 'k' fell inclined ; for some said that the 

;■;->* more than we provincials did ; others, 

X ,,-.],i,iiy, iiiaimained that the inhabilants of 
.. . v.ii n.i.n are always too flighty to show great 

., ..^.ti, the company was fonncd, and the task of 
.11,^ ihe collective funds was entrusted to M. 

^1 'v.i '.ho l';irisian banker sawthis tall figure, pale, 

.'■ >■ -wX walking sideways, sit down opposite to 

■. ... 'w ihi'Uijht at first that it was a joke ; bui when 
■v .irt shu spirtre take the cards, and use them like 
I ■■,,MoiiU, he began to think that his opponent 
■t. ,.'■■<■. t.'Minily have been worthy of him. 

li ,lul imt lake long to convince him that he was 
,.. I iwyihy of him ; for not only in this game, but 
. »,. Ill m.iiiy others which followed, M. Delins was 
\.i.vii. I'liiii-hed, and so plucked, that at his departure 
'i, h.\.\ u> count out more than six hundred francs, 
»;iuti «i-nj carefully divided among the shareholders 
^>I i)k' ciuupiiny. 

Hiii'ii! leaving, M. Delins came to thank us for 
iV kiml manner in which we had received him; 
mviiilitli-^s, he protested against the broken-down 
.iilvvis.iry we had opposed to him, and assured us 
ili.ii 111! never could console himself for having cot>- 
kiiavU »» unprofitably with a corpse. 

'Ihe consequence of these two facts is easy to 
ilnliiiu; it appears to me evident that the paralytic 



OF DREAMS. 283 

Stroke which in both these cases disturbed the 
brain, respected that part of the organ which had 
so long been employed in problems of commerce 
and of cards ; and that, doubtless, that part only 
resisted because continual exercise had given it 
greater strength, or, also, because those same im- 
pressions, for so long a time repeated, left deeper 
traces. 

Influence of Age. 

90. — ^Age has a marked influence on the nature 
of dreams. 

In infancy, we dream of games, gardens, flowers, 
verdiu-e, and other pleasing objects ; in later life, of 
pleasures, love, battles, marriages ; later still, of 
households, voyages, favours of a prince or of his 
representatives ; last of all, of business, embarrass- 
ments, treasures, former amusements, and friends 
dead a long while ago. 

Phenomena of Dreams, 

91. — Certain uncommon phenomena accompany 
sometimes sleep and dreams ; their examination may 
serve to advance the progress of anthroponomy ; * 
and it is for this reason that I shall record here three 
instances taken amongst many others which, during 
the course of a rather long life, I have had occasion 
to experience myself in the silence of the night 

* One of the words coined by oar author, meaning '* the knowledge 
ofman."— Tr. 



a84 MEDITATION XIX. 

First Ifistance, 

I dreamt one night that I had discovered the 
secret of dispensing Axith the laws of graxit)-, so that 
my body having no tendency* to ascend or to descend, 
I could effect either the one or the other with an 
equal facility according to my wilL 

This state seemed delicious to me, and perhaps 
many persons ha\e dreamt something hke it ; but 
the most remarkable part of my dream is that I 
remember that I explained to myself ver^' clearly (at 
least it appeared so) the means that had led to this 
result. These means seemed so simple that I was 
surprised that they had not been discovered earlier. 

On awaking, this explanatorv* part entirely escaped 
me, but the conclusion remained ; and ever since 
that time, I am thoroughly con\-inced that sooner or 
later some enlightened genius ^-ill make this dis- 
cover)*, and at all events, I claim priori t>\ 

Second Instans^. 

92. — Not many months ago, when asleep, I expe- 
rienced a sensation of pleasure quite extraordinarx*. 

It consisted in a son of delicious quivering of all 
the particles which composed my body. It was a 
kind of litillation most delightful, which, beginning 
at the epidermis, exier.ded from head to foot, and 
vibrated through me to the ver}- marrow of my bones. 
1 thought I saw a violet name play about my forehead. 

LsmUre :ijm-iz cc'mj.i ei circum /^■i^rA.•r- /jj./.* 
♦ Ti^ is a quoc&iluc from VirjL's .-Em^uL — Tk. 



OF DREAMS. 285 

I think that the condition, which I felt physically, 
lasted at least thirty seconds, and I awoke filled with 
a surprise that was not unmixed with terror. 

From this sensation, which is yet present to my 
memory, and from several observations made on 
people in a trance and others very excitable, I have 
come to the conclusion that the limits of pleasure are 
not yet known or defined, and that we are ignorant 
of the state of beatitude our body may reach. I hope 
that in a few centuries the physiology of the future 
will get hold of these extraordinary sensations, to 
produce them at will, and that as sleep is procured 
by opium, our great-grandchildren may, in that way, 
have compensations for the atrocious pains we have 
sometimes to suffer. 

The theory I have just advanced may be supported 
in some way by analogy, for I have already remarked 
that the power of harmony, which procures for us an 
enjoyment so keen, so pure, and so eagerly sought 
after, was entirely unknown to the Romans, as it is a 
discovery which is not more than five hundred years 
old. 

Third Instance, 

93. — In the year VIII. of the Republic (1800), I 
went to bed as usual, and nothing remarkable hap- 
pened during the day : I woke up at about one o'clock 
in the morning, the usual time of the end of my 
first sleep, and found myself in a quite extraordinary 
state of cerebral excitement ; my conceptions were 
bright, my thoughts profound ; the sphere of my in- 



286 MEDITATION XDC 

telligcncc appeared to have become enlarged. I sat 
up in bed ; and my eyes were affected by the sensation 
of a pale, vaporous, and uncertain lijjht, which, how- 
ever, did not at all enable me to distinguish objects. 

The crowd of ideas which succeeded each other so 
rapidly made me fency that this state lasted for 
several hours ; but, according to the time-piece in 
my bedroom, I am certain that it did not last more 
than half an hour. 

An external accident, quite independent of my i^ill, 
and which thus recalled me to things terrestrial, 
drove away this feeling. At the very moment the 
luminous sensation disappeared I felt my faculties 
declining, the limits of my intelligence grow narrower ; 
in a word, I became what I was before I went to bed. 

But as I was thoroughly awake, my memory re- 
tained very faintly a part of the ideas that passed 
through my mind. 

The first ideas had time as their subject. It 
appeared to me that the past, the present, and the 
future were of the same nature, and merely made one 
point, in such a manner that it Ti-as as easy to predict 
the future as to remember the past. 

This is all that I remember of this first intuition, 
which was partly effaced by those that followed. 

My attention was afterwards directed to the senses ; 
I classified them in their order of perfection, and 
having come to think that there were as many within 
us as there were external ones, I occupied myself in 
looking for them. 

I had already discovered three, and almost four, 



OF DREAlfS. 287 

when I fen back again on the earth. These three 
are as foUows : — 

1' Compassion^ which is a sensation we feel about 
the heart when we see a fellow creature suffer. 

2* Predilection^ which is a feeling of preference 
not merely for one object, but for all that is connected 
with it or recalls it to our memory. 

3* Sympathy^ which is also a feeling of preference 
that attracts two objects, the one towards the other. 

At first we might imagine that these two sentiments 
were merely one and the same thing ; but what pre- 
vents them from being confounded is that predilection 
b not always reciprocal, and that sympcUhy is so, as 
a matter of course. 

Finally, occupying myself with compassion^ I was 
led to an induction I think very correct, and which 
I would not have perceived at any other moment, 
namely, that compassion is the origin of that beautiful 
theorem, the first base of all legislations : 

Do not unto others that which you would not wish 
others to do to you : 

Alteri ne facias, quod tibi fieri mm vis. 

Moreover, my idea of the state in which I was 
then, and what I felt on that occasion, is such, that 
I would willingly give, if it were possible, all the 
time which remains to me to live, for a month of 
such an existence. 

Men of letters will comprehend this much better 
than others, for there are few of them to whom a 



288 MEDITATION XIX. 

ft 

similar experience has not oceurred, though in an 
inferior degree. 

In bed we lie comfortably in a horizontal position, 
the head well covered up. We think of the work -we 
have on hand, the imagination gets ejecited, ideas 
abound, expressions follow each o4:her; and as we 
must get up to write, we dress ourself, take off our 
ni;;htcap, and sit down at the writing-table. But we 
feel in a moment that we are no longer the same. 
The imagination has become chilled, the thread of 
ideas is broken, expressions are lacking ; we are 
obliged to hunt up with difficulty what before we found 
so easily, and very often we are forced to put off our 
work till a more promising day. 

All this is easily explained by the effect which is 
produced on the brain by the changes of position 
and temperature. We here find again another proof 
of its influence on the body and on our mind. 

Following out this observation, I have perhaps 
been led too far, but, after all, I am inclined to 
believe that the excitability of the Orientals is due 
partly to the fact that, being of the religion of 
Mohammed, they always have the head warmly 
covered, and that it is to obtain a contrary effect 
that all legislators for monastic orders have imposed 
on the monks the obligation of keeping that part of 
the body uncovered and shaven. 




MEDITATION XX. 



ON THE INFLUENCE OF DIET ON REPOSE, 
SLEEP, AND DREAMS. 



94. — When man rests, whether he sleeps or 
dreams, he never ceases to be under the power of 
the laws of nutrition, and does not quit the domain 
of gastronomy. 

Theory and experience combine to prove that the 
quality and quantity of food have a powerful influence 
on work, repose, sleep, and dreams. 

Efftcts of Diet on Work. 

95. — A man who is badly fed cannot bear the 

fatigues of a prolonged labour for a long time ; hb 

body becomes covered with perspiration, his strength 



29© MEDITATION XX. 

soon abandons him, and for him sleep is merely the 
utter impossibility of action. 

If his labours be mental, his ideas are crude and 
without precision. His reflection refuses to combine 
them, or his judgment to analyse them. The brain 
exhausts itself in such vain efforts, and the soldier 
falls asleep on the field of battle. 

I have always thought that the suppers of Auteuil, 
and of the hotels of Rambouillet and Soissons,* did 
a great deal of good to the authors of the time of 
Louis XIV. ; and the witty critic Geoffroy was not 
altogether so very wrong when he made fun of the 
eau sucrie of the poets of the end of the eighteenth 
century, a beverage which he thought they habitually 
drank, though this was far from true. 

According to those principles, I have examined the 
works of some authors known to have been poor and 
wretched, and I only found them possessed of real 
energy when they were stimulated by an habitual 
sentiment of their sorrows, or by envy, often very 
badly concealed. 

On the contrary, a man who eats well, and who 
repairs his forces with prudence and discernment, may 
perform an amount of work that no living being can do. 

♦ Boileau (1663-1711) and Molicre (1622-1673) had their country 
liouses at Auteuil, where they often received their friends to supper. 
The Hotel de Rambouillet, where Catherine de Vivonne-Pisani (1558- 
2665), the wife of the Marquis de Rambouillet, dwelt, was, from 1645 
until 1665, the place where all celebrated men of letters and all noble- 
men of intelligence met ; it was, however, more renowned for its "flow 
of reason and its feast of soul" than for it& suppers. In the Hotel de 
Soibsons lived Olympia Mancini (1640-1708), a niece of Cardinal 
Ma/arin, and the wife of the Count de Soi&sons, who was banished 
from France, and died an exile.— Tr. 



ON THE INFLUENCE OF DIET. 29X 

On the eve of his departure for Boulogne, the 
Emperor Napoleon I. was at work for more than 
thirty hours, with his Council of State and the 
various depositories of his power, without any other 
refreshment than two very short meals and a few 
cups of coffee. 

Dr. Thomas Brown * tells us of an English clerk 
of the Admiralty who, having accidentally lost some 
papers which could only be prepared by himself, was 
employed fifty-two consecutive hours in writing them 
a second time. Without a suitable diet, he never 
could have borne such an enormous waste of energy. 
He kept himself up in the following manner : first, 
by drinking water, then by taking light food, then 
wine, then strong soup, and finally opium. 

I met one day a courier whom I had known in 
the army, and who came from Spain, where he had 
been sent with despatches from the government, — 
such a courier is called in Spanish, correo ganando 
horas; — and who had made the journey in twelve days, 
having only halted at Madrid for four hours. Some 
glasses of wine and a few basons of soup were all that 
he hkd taken during this prolonged series of joltings 
and sleepless nights ; and he added, that any food 
more solid would have in^libly prevented him from 
continuing his journey. 

* Dr. Thomas Brown (i 778-1 820), the successor of Dugald Stewart 
in the Edinburgh Chair of Moral Philosophy, is above all known by 
his " Lectures on the Philosophy of the Human Mind."— Tr. 



292 MEDITATION XX. 

On Dreams, 

96. — Food has more than a slight influence on 
sleep and dreams. 

He who wants to eat cannot sleep. The pangs of 
hunger keep him in a state of irksome excitement, 
and if feebleness and exhaustion compel him to drop 
asleep, his slumber is light, weary, and broken. 

He, on the contrary, who in his eating exceeds the 
bounds of discretion sinks to sleep at once. If he 
dreams, he remembers nothing of it, because the 
nervous fluid has been passing in every direction 
through the nerves. For the same reason, he awakes 
suddenly, comes back with difficulty to social life, 
and when sleep is entirely gone, still feels for a long 
while the fatigue of digestion. 

We may lay down as a general maxim, that coflTee 
drives away sleep. Custom weakens that incon- 
venience, and even makes it entirely disappear ; but 
it is invariably experienced by all Europeans when 
they commence to take it. 

Some kind of food, on the other hand, gently pro- 
voke sleep ; such as those in which milk forms the 
chief part, the entire family of lettuce-plants, poultry, 
purslain, orange-flower, and especially the rennet- 
apple, when eaten immediately before retiring to 

rest. 

Consequence, 

97. — Experience, founded on millions of observa- 
tions, has taught us that food determines dreams. 
Generally, all the foods that are slightly exciting. 



ON THE INFLUENCE OF DIET. 293 

cause people to dream ; such as brown meat, pigeons, 
ducks, game, and above all, hare. 

This property is also recognised in asparagus, 
celery, truffles, scented sweetmeats, and especially in 
vanilla. 

It would be a great error to believe that we should 
banish from our tables such somniferous substances, 
for the dreams that result from eating them are in 
general of a light and agreeable nature, and prolong 
our existence, even during the time when it appears 
to be suspended. 

There are persons for whom sleep is a separate 
life, a sort of prolonged romance ; that is to say, that 
all their dreams follow each other, that they end the 
second night a dream begun the night before, and 
that when asleep, they see certain faces which they 
recognise, and have seen already, but which, never- 
theless, they have never met with in the real world. 

Result 

98. — A person who reflects on his physical life, and 
who conducts it according to the principles we have 
indicated, will prepare with sagacity his repose, his 
sleep, and his dreams. 

He distributes his work in such a way as never to 
wear himself out ; he lightens it by varying it with dis- 
cernment, and refreshes his intelligence by short in- 
tervals of repose, which relieve him without interrupt- 
ing the continuity which is sometimes compulsory. 

If during the day-time he needs a longer rest, he 
indulges in it only in a sitting attitude, refraining from 



294 ^zzrzAZi2S xjl 



sleepc unless bresisti'tly jcrccd to ^-.-e way to i:, and 
Is e^iienallv cartf::! z:: to cd so !Li'r:rT.t"v. 

When ci^h: '-rln-5 the h:-zr f:r bis djii'.y repose 
he retires to an airv rccm. dres nx STirrouni himself 
»ith curtains that c:n:pel him to breaihc the same 
air over and o^-er a^ain, and takes g»d care noc to 
close the shutters, so that whene\"er his e\"es half 
open he will be cheered b>- a remnant of li^ht. 

He lies down in a bed sli^htlv raised towards 
the head, his pillow is stuffed w-i;h hc^rse-hair, his 
n:ght-cap made of linen, and his chest unencumbered 
by a weight of blankets ; but he is careful to keep 
his feet warmlv covered. 

He eats with discrimination, and never refuses 
good and excellent food ; he drinks the best wines, 
and with precaution even the most heady. During 
dessert, he talks more about the ladies than about 
politics, and composes more madrigals than epigrams. 
lie takes a cup of coffee if it suits his constitution, 
and after a few moments a thimbleful of excellent 
liqueur, merely to sweeten his mouth. In everything 
he shows himself an amiable guest, a distinguished 
connoisseur, and nevertheless exceeds but in a trifling 
dc;(ree the limits of his natural wants. 

Then he goes to bed satisfied with himself and 
others, his eyes close, he passes through the twilight 
of consciousness, and falls, for several hours, into 
absolute slumber. 

Soon Nature has levied her tribute, and assimila- 
tion has replaced all losses. Then pleasant dreams 
descend and give him a mysterious existence ; he 



ON THE INFLUENCE OF DIET. 29$ 

sees the persons whom he loves, occupies himself 
again with his favourite occupations, and transports 
himself to the places he is fond of. 

Finally, he feels sleep gradually pass away, and 
enters again upon social life without having to regret 
any time lost, because, even in his sleep, he has 
enjoyed activity without fatigue, and pleasure with- 





MEDITATION XXI. 

ON CORPULENCE. 



9g. — If I had been a physician with a degree, 
I should, in the first plnce, have wTiilen a monograph 
on corpulence ; I would then haie founded an empire 
in that comer of the field of science, and I should 
have had the double advantage of having as patients 
people who are as well as can be, and of being every 
day besieged by the fairest portion of the human 
race. For to be exactly siout enough, neither too 
much nor too little, is for women the study of their 
life. 

That which I have lefl undone, another doctor will 
accomplish ; and if he is learned, discreel, and 



ON CORPULENCE. ^97 

handsome, I prophesy he will have a wonderful 
success. 

Exoriare aliquis nostris ex osHbus lutresj^ 

Meanwhile I intend to prepare the way for him, 
for an article on corpulence is indispensable in a work 
that has for its object man as a feeding animal. 

I understand by corpulence that state of fatty 
congestion in which, without the individual being ill, 
the lines gradually increase in size, and lose their 
form and their original symmetry. 

There is a sort of corpulence of the stomach only 
which I have never observed in females, for, as their 
fibre is generally softer, their whole body becomes ■ 
stout, when corpulence attacks them. I call this sort 
of stomach-corpulence gastrophoria^ and gastrophori f 
those people who are attacked by it I am myself 
among their number, but although bearer of a 
stomach sufficiently prominent, the lower part of my 
legs is spare, and I am as sinewy as an Arab horse. 

I have, nevertheless, regarded my stomach as a 
formidable antagonist. I vanquished it, and only 
made it look majestic ; but to do so it was necessary 
to fight against it, and it is to this contest of thirty 
years that this essay owes any merit there may be 
in it. 

I shall commence by giving a sample of more than 
^\^ hundred conversations I formerly kept up at 

* " There may arise some heir out of our bones.'* An alteration of 
a line in Virgil's "iEneid," iv. 625, which has "avenger" iastead of 
"heir."— Tr. 

t Another word invented hy ottr author, equivalent to "paunch 
bellied} " or "bearer of a corporation. "—Tr. 

2 P 



/ 



^ ' 3 



•■ -" i^ 



^ ^ mm 



• • ^ ♦ 






^ '■• ' i 



*' «< 






ON CORPULENCE. 299 

7. — I don't take any. I look on potatoes as a 
great preservative against famine ; but, except that^ 
they seem to me thoroughly insipid. 

Corpulent man, — A gastronomic heresy I There 
is nothing finer than potatoes. I eat them prepared 
in every way ; and if they appear in the second 
course, either d, la lyonnaise, or in a souffli^ I hereby 
enter a protest for the preservation of my rights. 

A corpulent lady, — Will you be so kind as to 
order some of these Soissons haricots to be brought 
to me which I see at the bottom of the table. 

/. — After having given the order^ I sang in a low 
voice to a well-known tune : 

*' At SoissoDS they're a happy lot, 
They've haricots in plenty got.*' 

Corpulent man, — Do not joke; they are a real 
treasure for that country ; and Paris pays a consider- 
able amount to be supplied with them. I must also 
ask you not to make fun of those little common 
beans, they call English beans ; when still green they 
are food for the Gods. 

/. — Hang those haricot beans ! Woe betide those 
common beans I 

Corpulent man {defiantly). — I laugh at your im- 
precations 1 You talk as if you were a whole council 
all by yourself. 

/ {to corpulent lady), — I must congratulate you 
on your good health; it appears, madam, that. you 
have grown a little stouter since I last had the honour 
of seeing you. 



300 MEDITATION XXL 

Corpulent lady, — I owe this, most likely, to my 
new way of living. 

/. — What is that ? 

Corpulent lady, — For some time I have break- 
fasted on a basin of first-rate rich soup, big enough 
for two. And what soup, too I The spoon can 
stand upright in it. 

/ (to another corpulent lady), — Madam, if your 
glances do not deceive me, you will accept a small 
piece of this charlotte^ and I will make an attack 
upon it in your behalf ? 

Corpulent lady. — Well, sir, you have made a 
mistake ; I see here dishes which I like above all 
things, and they are both of the masculine gender ; I 
mean that rice-cake with its golden sides, and this 
gigantic Savoy cake,* for allow me to hint to you 
that I dote upon sweet pastry. 

/ (Jo another corpulent lady). — While they discyss 
politics at the other end of the table, madam, will 
you permit me to examine for you this frangipani 
tart? 

Corpulent lady. — With pleasure ; there is nothing 
I like better than pastry. We have a pastry-cook in 
our house as a tenant, and my daughter and I, 
between us, eat up the whole of the rent, I think, 
and perhaps more. 

/ (after having looked at the young lady), — It 
seems to have done you both a great deal of good ; 
your daughter is a fine-looking girl, and very attractive. 

* CwAieau dt riz and biscuit dt Savoie are of the masculine gender in 
French. — ^Tk. 



ON CORPULENCE. 3OX 

Corpulent lady. — Weill do you know that her 
friends sometimes tell her that she is too fat 

/. — That is probably mere envy. 

Corpulent lady, — Very likely ; moreover, she'll 
soon be married, and the first child will make it all 
straight 

It is by such conversations as these that a light 
was thrown on a theory which, in its elementary 
form, I had observed in other species besides the 
human one, — to wit, that fatty corpulence is always 
principally due to food too much charged with 
starchy, farinaceous matter; and thus, I became 
convinced that the same regimen is always followed 
by the same effect As a matter of fact carnivorous 
animals never become fat ; for example, wolves, 
jaguars, birds of prey, ravens, &c. 

Herbivorous animals do not fatten much, at least 
until age has brought them to take rest : on the 
other hand, they fatten quickly as soon as they are 
fed on potatoes, grain, and any kind of flower. 

Corpulence is never found either amongst the 
savages or among those classes of society who work 
to cat, and only eat to live. 

Causes of Corpulence, 

100. — From the preceding observations, of which 
any one can verify the accuracy for himself, 
it is easy to assign the principal causes of cor- 
pulence. 

The first is the natural disposition of the indi- 
vidual. Nearly all men are bom with certain pre- 



$02 MEDITATION XXI. 

dispositions, which their physiognomy indicates. Of 
every hundred persons who die of pulmonary diseases, 
ninety have brown hair, a long face, and a sharp 
nose. Out of a hundred corpulent people ninety 
have a short face, round eyes, and a flat nose. 

There exist, therefore, persons in some degree pre- 
destined to corpulence, and whose digestive powers 
elaborate a greater proportion of fat, all other things 
being equal. 

This physical truth, of which I am profoundly con- 
vinced, influences in a deplorable manner the obser- 
vations I make on certain occasions. 

When we meet in society with a young lady, not 
too tall, lively, with a rosy complexion, a roguish 
nose, a rounded form, plump hands and short plump 
feet, everybody is delighted with her, and finds her 
charming. But I, taught by experience, think of 
what she will be ten years hence ; I see the ravages 
that corpulence will have made on those youthful 
charms, and I groan over evils not yet existing. 

Such anticipated compassion is a painful sentiment, 
and furnishes a proof, among a thousand others, that 
man would be more unhappy if he could foresee the 
future. 

The second and principal cause of corpulence, is 
because farinaceous and starchy substances form the 
basis of man's daily food. We have already re- 
marked, that all animals who live on farinaceous food 
become fat, and man follows the common law. 

Starchy food produces more quickly and surely its 
effect when combined with sugar. Sugar and fat 



ON CORPULENCE. 303 

contain hydrogen, which is common to them ; thus 
both are combustible. These two substances mixed 
are also more active in proportion as they please the 
taste, and because sweet dishes are scarcely ever 
eaten until after the natural appetite is already satis- 
fied, and when there remains nothing more than this 
other and luxurious appetite, which must be tempted 
by the most refined art, and the most alluring variety. 
Starchy food is not less fattening when it is con- 
veyed in liquids, such as beer, and other drinks of the 
kind. People who drink them habitually are also 
those where the most wonderful paunches can be 
seen. Some Parisian families who in 1817 drank 
beer for economy's sake, because wine was then very 
dear, have been recompensed for it by a corpulence 
they would be glad to get rid of. 

Continuation, 

10 1. — Another cause of corpulence is the result of 
taking too much sleep, as well as the lack of exercise. 

The human body is much repaired during sleep, 
and in that time it loses little, as the muscular action 
is suspended. Hence the necessity for exercise to 
evaporate the plethora ; but by the very fact of sleep- 
ing a great deal, the amount of the time for action is 
so much the more limited. 

Another consequence is that great sleepers refuse 
to do anything that would give them the slightest 
fatigue ; the excess of assimilation is thus conveyed 
by the current of circulation; and by a process of 
which Nature has kept the secret, a small percentage 



304 MEDlTATrON XXI. 

of hydrogen is added and fat is formed, which is 
deposited by that same current in the cells of the 
cellular tissue. 

Continuation, 

1 02. — Finally, another cause of corpulence is an 
excess in eating and drinking. 

There is some truth in the saying that one of the 
privileges of the human species is to eat without 
being hungry, and to drink without being thirsty ; 
and, as a matter of fact, animals could not do this, 
for it springs from reflection on the pleasures of the 
table, and from the desire to prolong their duration. 

This twofold inclination exists wherever men are 
found ; and we know that savages eat to excess and 
drink till they are stupefied every time they have an 
opportunity. 

As for ourselves, whether citizens of the Old or 
the New World, we think we are at the height of 
civilisation, and yet we certainly eat too much. 

I do not allude to that small number of men who, 
from avarice or incapacity, live alone and by them- 
selves : the former are delighted to know that they 
are heaping up wealth ; the latter groaning because 
they cannot do better. 

But I affirm for all those who, living around us, 
are by turns hosts or guests, who politely ask people 
to dinner or accept invitations courteously, who, having 
no longer any wants, eat of a dish because it is at- 
tractive, or drink some wine because it is of foreign 
growth — I say it of those people, whether they 



ON CORPULENCE. 305 

frequent every day a drawing-room, or whether 
they only have a treat on Sundays and sometimes 
on Mondays, the great majority of all these eat 
and drink too much, and enormous quantities of 
eatables are every day absorbed without need. 

This nearly always present cause acts differently, 
according to the constitution of different persons ; 
and for those people who have a weak stomach, its 
effect is not corpulence, but indigestion. 

Anecdote, 

103. — We have had before us an example, known 
to the half of Paris. 

M. Lang kept one of the best houses of this town ; 
his table, above all, was excellent, but his stomach 
was as weak as his love for good living was strong. 
He did the honours as a host to perfection, and, 
above all, ate with a courage worthy of a better 
fate. 

All went well enough till the coffee was brought 
in ; but then the stomach speedily refused the work 
imposed on it ; pains commenced, and the unhappy 
gastronomer was obliged to throw himself on a sofa, 
where he lay until the morning, expiating by protracted 
agony the short pleasure he had enjoyed. 

It is very curious that he never corrected this fault. 
As long as he lived, he had to submit to this strange 
alternative, and the sufferings of the day before did 
never influence his conduct during meal-time the 
next day. 

Among men of an active digestion, the excess of 

2Q 



306 MEDITATION XXI. 

nutrition acts as indicated in the preceding article. 
All the food is digested, and that which is not neces- 
sary for the reparation of the body is appropriated, 
and turns into fat. 

Other men suffer from perpetual indigestion ; food 
passes along without doing any good, and those who 
do not know the cause are surprised that so many 
good things have not produced a better result. 

The reader will perceive that I do not go minutely 
into details, for there is a number of secondary causes 
arising from our habits, from our condition in life, 
from our hobbies and our pleasures, that second and 
promote those which I have just pointed out 

I leave those minute details to the successor whom 
I have mentioned at the commencement of this Medi- 
tation, and shall be content with a handsel, which is 
the right of the first-comer in every case. 

For a long time intemperance has attracted the 
attention of observers. Philosophers have extolled 
temperance, princes have made sumptuary laws, re- 
ligion has preached at gourmandise, Alas 1 nobody 
eats a mouthful the less for all that, and the art of 
eating too much becomes every day more flourishing. 

I shall be perhaps more happy in striking out a 
new path. I shall show the physical inconveniences 
of corpulence ; self-preservation will perhaps have a 
greater influence than morality, be more persuasive 
than sermons, and more powerful than laws. I think 
that the fair sex will at any rate be disposed to open 
their eyes to the light. 



.ON CORPULENCE. 307 

Inconvenience of Corpulence^ 

104. — Corpulence has a lamentable influence on 
the two sexes, inasmuch as it most injuriously affects 
strength and beauty. It lessens strength because it 
increases the weight to be moved, whilst it does not 
increase the motive power; and again, by impeding 
the respiration, which renders impossible all work 
requiring a prolonged use of muscular power. 

Corpulence injures beauty by destroying the har- 
mony of proportion established at first, because all 
the parts of the body do not enlarge equally. It 
also harms it by filling up cavities that Nature had 
destined to be in the shade ; and so nothing is more 
common than to meet with faces formerly very interest- 
ing, and which fat has made almost insignificant. 

The chief of the last government. Napoleon I., did 
not escape this law. He had grown very corpulent 
in his last campaign ; from pale he had become quite 
wan, and his eyes had lost part of their brilliancy. 

Corpulence brings with it a distaste for dancing, 
walking, riding, and an unfitness for all the occupa- 
tions or amusements that require a little agility or skill. 

It also predisposes to various maladies, such as 
apoplexy, dropsy, ulcers on the legs, and renders all 
other illnesses much more difficult to cure. 

Examples of Corpulence, 

105. — I donot recollect the namesof any other corpu- 
lent heroes except those of Marius* and John Sobieski.t 

* Caius Marias (b.c. Z50-B.C. 86), seven times Consul of Rome, and 
the great rival of Sulla, was the leader of the democratic party.— Tr. 

t John Sobieski (1624-1696), King of Poland, defeated the Turks 
before Vienna, xath September 1683. — ^Tr. 



308 MEDITATION XXI. 

Marius, who was of small stature, had become 
almost as broad as he was high, and it was perhaps 
his enormous size that frightened the Cimbrian 
soldier who was ordered to kill him. As for the King 
of Poland, his corpulence very nearly was fatal to 
him, for, having fallen amidst a troop of Turkish 
cavalr)', before whom he had to flee, he soon became 
short of breath, and would have been undoubtedly 
slaughtered if some of his aides-de-camp had not held 
him up, almost fainting, on his horse, whilst others 
generously sacrificed themselves to delay the enemy. 

If I do not mistake, the Duke of Vendome,* that 
worthy son of the great Henri IV., t was also remark- 
ably corpulent. He died in an inn, abandoned by every 
one, and preserved consciousness long enough to see 
the last of his followers snatch away the pillow from 
under his head when about to yield his last breath. 

Many other examples of monstrous corpulence will 
be found in various books ; I shall not quote them 
here, and confine myself to give a few instances of 
those I have personally observed. M. Rameau, one 
of my school-fellows, afterwards mayor of La Chaleur 
in Burgundy, was only five feet six inches high, and yet 
he weighed five hundred pounds ; so that each section 
of his body was a foot thick and about a hundredweight. 

The Duke de Luynes,J with whom I have often 

* Louis- Joseph, due de VendCme (1654-1712), i^andson of a natural 
son of Henry IV., a man of dissolute character, but a great general, as 
proved by his winning the battle of Villa-Viciosa, 9th Dec. 1710.— Tr. 

t Henri IV. (i553~'6i3), a great and good king of France, signed the 
edict of Nantes in 1598, and was murdered by Kavaillae.— Tr. 

X Louis-Jo!»eph-Ciiarle»-Amable, duke de Luynes (1748-1807), one of 



ON CORPULENCE. 309 

sat in the same assembly, became enormous. Fat 
had disfigured his handsome countenance, and he 
passed the last years of his life in a nearly continual 
sleep. 

But the most extraordinary instance I have met 
was an inhabitant of New York, whom many French- 
men, now in Paris, may remember having seen in 
Broadway, sitting in an enormous arm-chair, of which 
the legs were strong enough to support a church. 
Edward was at least six feet four in height, and as 
his fat had puffed him out in every direction, he was 
almost nine feet round the waist. His fingers were 
like those of the Roman emperor* who used his wife's 
bracelets as rings ; his arms and his thighs were tubu- 
lar, and as thick as the waist of a man of ordinary 
stature, and he had feet like an elephant, covered with 
the thick fat of his legs. The weight of fat kept down 
his lower eyelids and made them gape ; but what was 
hideous to behold were three round chins hanging on 
his breast, and more than a foot long, so that his face 
appeared to be the capital of a truncated column. 

Thus Edward passed his life, sitting at a win- 
dow on the ground floor looking out on the street, 
drinking from time to time a glass of ale, of which 
a pitcher of huge capacity stood always near him. 
So extraordinary an appearance could scarcely fail 
to arrest the attention of the passers by ; but they 
had to take care not to stop too long, as Edward 

the few nobles who did not emigrate during the first French Revolation, 
was a member of the Constituent Assembly as well as our author.— Tx. 
* lliis Roman emperor was Maximin. — ^Tk. 



'tr.r. "h.-J 1 



-je r^sii-Jiea ■•^di icenc;. 



S. 




MEDITATION XXII. 



PRESERVATIVE OR CURATIVE TREAT- 
MENT OF CORPULENCE.* 



io6. — I COMMENCE with a fact which proves that 
we must have determination wther to preserve our- 
selves from corpulence, or to be cured from iL 

M. Louis Creflulhe, whom His Majesty afterwards 
made a count, came to see mc one morning, and told 
me that having learnt 1 had paid a 



My readtn ihould, • 



t% t^o 1 undertook a 






Liilluinlt»>iiiL; 



312 MEDITATION XXII. 

subject of corpulence, with which he was threatened, 
he came to ask my advice. 

" Sir," I said to him, " not having a doctor's 
degree, I am free to refuse you as a patient. Never- 
theless, I am at your orders, but on one condition, 
namely, that you will pledge me your word of honour 
to follow, for one month, the rule of conduct which 
I prescribe, with the strictest accuracy." 

M. Greffulhe made the required promise, shook me 
by the hand, and the next day I gave him the rules I 
wished him to observe, of which the first was to have 
himself weighed at the beginning and end of the 
treatment, so as to have a mathematical basis to 
ascertain the result. 

One month afterwards, M. Greffulhe came to 
see me again, and spoke to me nearly in these 
words : 

" Sir, I have followed your prescription as if my 
life depended on it, and I have ascertained that during 
the month I have lost three pounds and even a little 
more ; but in order to arrive at this result, I have 
been obliged to do such violence to all my tastes and 
all my habits, and in one word I have suffered so 
much, that, whilst offering you my best thanks for 
your good advice, I renounce any advantage resulting 
from it, and await for the future the fate Providence 
has ordained for me." 

After this resolution, which I did not hear without 
pain, the result was as might have been anticipated. 
M. Greffulhe became more corpulent, suffered all the 
inconveniences of extreme obesity, and scarcely had 



A PRESERVATIVE TREATMENT. 313 

reached forty when he died of the consequences of 
a disease of the respiratory organs, of which he had 
had some attacks before. 

General Rules, 

107. — Every cure of corpulence must commence 
with these three rules, which are absolute in their 
theory: Discretion in eating, moderation in sleep, 
exercise on foot or on horseback. 

These are the first resources that science presents to 
us ; nevertheless, I do not count much on them, for I 
know men and things, and also that any prescription 
not literally followed, cannot produce any effect I 
know also that : 

I*. Much resolution is needed to be able to leave 
the dinner-table with an appetite, for as long as this 
craving is felt, one morsel calls forth another with an 
irresistible attraction, and, as a general rule, men eat 
as long as they feel hungry, in spite of doctors, and 
even by the example of doctors. 

2**. To propose to any of our stout friends to get 
up early in the morning, is to stab him to the heart ; 
they will tell you that their health cannot stand it ; 
that, when they get up early of a morning, they are 
good for nothing nearly the whole day ; the ladies will 
complain that they will be black under the eyes. They 
one and all are willing to sit up late, but they will 
stick to lie late in bed in the morning ; and thus my 
second resource is lost. 

3'. Exercise on horseback is an expensive remedy, 

which neither suits all incomes nor all conditions of life. 

2 R 



314 MEDITATION XXII. 

Propose to a pretty corpulent lady to go out for 
a ride, and she will gladly consent, but on three con- 
ditions ; firstly, that she shall have a horse, handsome, 
spirited, and gentle ; secondly, that she shall have a 
new riding-habit, and cut in the latest fashion ; and 
thirdly, that she shall have a gentleman to accompany 
her, who is young, good-tempered, and handsome. 
It is rather rare to find all these three things, and 
riding is thus given up. 

Exercise on foot meets with several other objec- 
tions. It tires one to death ; it produces perspira- 
tion, and one is apt to catch pleurisy ; the dust ruins 
the stockings, the stones come in the little shoes, 
and it is impossible to continue it. 

Finally, if after these various attempts the slightest 
touch of headache is felt ; if a little pimple as large 
as the head of a pin comes on the skin, it is attributed 
to the diet ; it is abandoned, and the doctor gets in a 
rage. 

Thus, it being agreed that all persons who wish 
to see their corpulence decrease should eat in 
moderation, sleep little, and take as much exercise 
as possible, we must, therefore, seek another road to 
attain the same object. 

Now, there exists an infallible method for prevent- 
ing corpulence from becoming excessive, or for 
diminishing it when it has become so. 

This method, which is founded on everything that 
is most certain in physics and chemistry, consists in 
a dietetic regimen suited to the effect sought to 
be obtained. 



A PRESERVATIVE TREATMENT. 31$ 

Of all medical resources, a fixed diet is the first, 
because it acts continually by day or night, awake or 
asleep, because the efTect is renewed at every meal, 
and gradually exerts its influence on every portion of 
the individual. 

Now the anti-corpulent diet is indicated by the 
most common and the most active cause of the 
disease, and as it has already been shown that 
starchy and farinaceous food form fatty matter both 
in men and animals ; since, with regard to the latter, 
this effect is produced every day before our eyes, and 
gives rise to the trade of fattening animals, we may 
deduce from this, as an exact consequence, that 
more or less strict abstinence from all that is feculent 
tends to the diminution of corpulence. "Good 
Heavens 1 " all my male and female readers will ex- 
claim ; " Good Heavens, how cruel the professor is ! 
In a few words he forbids everything we like, those 
white rolls of Limet, those biscuits of Achard, those 
cakes of . . • and so many good things which are 
made with flour and butter, with flour and sugar, 
and with flour, sugar, and eggs ! He has no mercy 
either on potatoes or on macaroni 1 Could we have 
expected this from a lover of good living who 
appeared so kind ? " 

" What do I hear ? " I reply, assuming that stem 
countenance I only put on once a year. "Well, 
eat and grow fat ; become ugly, heavy, asthmatic, 
and die choked by your own fat ; PU make a note of 
it, and you shall figure in the second edition of this 
work. . . . But what do I see ? a single phrase has 



3l6 MEDITATION XXIL 

conquered you ; you are afraid, and you entreat me 
not to launch my thunderbolt. Reassure yourself, 
I am going to prescribe your diet, and will prove to 
you how much pleasure you may still expect on this 
earth where one lives to eat. 

" You like bread ? well, eat rye-bread. The estim- 
able Cadet de Vaux"^ has long ago extolled its 
virtues. It is not so nourishing and not so agreeable 
as ordinary bread, which makes it the easier for you 
to comply with my rule. For to make certain of 
oneself, one ought above all to flee temptation. Re- 
member this well ; this is a moral law. 

" You like soup ? Then eat julienniy with green 
vegetables, cabbage, and things that grow under 
ground.! I forbid soup made with bread, with all 
kinds of macaroni, and also purees, 

" At the first course, everything is at your service, 
with a few exceptions, such as poultry stewed with 
rice, and the crust of hot pastry. Eat, but be cir- 
cumspect, so as not to satisfy later a want which 
does no longer exist. 

"The second course appears, and now all your 
philosophy ^^^ll be needed. Avoid farinaceous food, 
whatever form it assumes, and stick to roast meat, 
salads, and herbaceous vegetables ; and, if a lew 
sweets must be allowed to you, take in preference 
chocolate creams, and jellies flavoured with rum, 
oranges, and other things of the same sort. 

• Cadet-de-Vaux (1743-1828), a celebrated chemist, of undoubted 
honesty, who studied, above all, sanitary laws, and wrote sevefal books 
on them. — Tr. 

t All things growing under ground are now considered fatteoiDg. — ^Tk. 



A PRESERVATIVE TREATMENT. 317 

" Now comes the dessert, and with it a fresh dan- 
ger ; but if up to the present time you have behaved 
well, you must still keep up your courage. Avoid the 
comers of the table, for there cakes more or less orna- 
mented make their appearance : do not look at sweet 
biscuits nor at the macaroons ; there remains to you 
all kinds of fruit, preserves, and many things that you 
may safely pick out, according to my principles. 

"After dinner, I prescribe coffee, allow you a 
liqueur,'^ and advise you to take tea and punch when 
opportunity offers. 

" At break&st take rye bread as a matter of course, 
and chocolate rather than coffee. Nevertheless, I 
allow coffee rather strong, with milk, and other 
things at discretion, but no eggs. But you cannot 
breakfast too early. When you breakfast late, the 
dinner comes before the digestion is finished ; you 
do not eat less, and this eating without appetite is 
a very active cause of corpulence, because it occurs 
so frequently." 

Continuation of the Regimen, 

108. — Up to the present time I have in a fatherly, 
tender, and rather kind manner, given you all the 
details of a regimen which will drive away the cor- 
pulence which threatens you. A few more prescrip- 
tions must be added for those who are already 
attacked by it 

Drink, every summer, thirty bottles of Seltzer 

* Presenres and Itqaeun are absolutely forbidden at the present time 
to oorpuknt people.— 'Tr. 



3l8 MEDITATION XXII. 

water, one large tumbler in the morning, two others 
before lunch, and as many at bed-time. Drink 
commonly light, acid, white wines, like those of 
Anjou, and avoid beer as you would the plague. 
Ask often for radishes, artichokes \vith oil and 
vinegar, asparagus, celery, and cardoons. Among 
meats choose veal and poultry, and only eat the 
crust of bread. In doubtful cases, take the advice 
of a doctor who follows my principles, and whatever 
may be the time when you began to adopt these 
directions, you will speedily become renovated, pretty, 
lithesome, in good health, and ready for anything. 

After having thus put you on your way, I must also 
show you the shoals, lest in excess of zeal against 
corpulency, you overstep the limit. 

The shoal that I wish to point out is the habitual 
use of acids, which ignorant people sometimes counsel 
to take, and of which experience has always demon- 
strated the evil effects. 

Danger of Acids, 

109. — Amongst women an unhappy doctrine pre- 
vails, which kills every year many young girls, namely, 
that acids, and especially vinegar, are preservatives 
against corpulence. 

Without doubt the continual use of acids causes 
leanness, but it also destroys the freshness of yoflth, 
health, and life ; and though lemonade is the most 
pleasant of these acids, there are few stomachs that 
can stand it for any length of time. 

The truth I have just stated cannot be too well 



A PRESERVATIVE TREATMENT. 319 

known, for there are few of my readers who could not 
give me some examples to support it, and amongst 
them I choose the following, which came under my 
own personal observation. 

In 1776 I lived at Dijon, and studied law there; 
I also attended a course of chemistry under M. 
Guyton Morveau, then advocate-general,* and a 
course of domestic medicine under M. Maret, per- 
petual secretary of the Academy of Dijon, and father 
of the Duke of Bassano.t 

I became very great friends with one of the 
prettiest girls of whom my memory has preserved the 
recollection. 

We were only "very great friends," which is 
strictly true and rather surprising, for I was at that 
time very much inclined to form closer and dearer 
links. 

This friendship, which must really be taken for 
what it was, and not for what it might have become, 
was characterised by a familiarity that, from the very 
first day, became a confidence, appearing to us quite 
natural ; and we had no end of private chats, which 
did not alarm her mother, as they were innocent, and 
worthy of the primitive ages. 

Louise was, as I have said, very pretty, and, above 
all, in a just proportion, possessed that classical fulness 

* Guyton Morveau (1737-1816), at first advocate-g«neral at the 
ParUmtnt of Dijon, abandoned the law to study chemistry, in which 
he became very eminent, and was made a baron by Napoleon I. — Tr. 

t Hugues Maret was a medical man at Dijon. His son, the Duke of 
Bassano(i763-i839X the intimate confidant of Napoleon I., was secre- 
tary of state, aud for some time minister of foreign affairs— Tr. 



3«0 MEDITATION XXII. 

of form which charms our eyes, and is one Of the 

Kloricn of the imitative arts. 

Although I was only her friend, I was very for 
from being blind to the attractions she displayed, 
<>r which I thought she had; and perhaps they 
»<itlccl, without my suspecting it, to the pure senti- 
ment llmt attached me to her. 

Jlowcvcr, one evening, when I had looked at 
l.<»ui)ic with more nilcntion than usual, I said to her, 
•• My iUnxr girl, you are ill ; you appear to be getting 
tl»inncr.»» •» Oh „o." she replied with a sort of melan- 
t holy Muilc. •» I am quite well ; and if I am somewhat 
thinner, I kww very well aflbrd to lose a little fat with- 
nnt in\po\crlslunK mysdf." "Lose fat I" I replied 
rnri Kvtii ally to hrr: »» there is no need for your losing 
n^M K'^nnuii any j kin^p as you are, you look 'scrump- 
Uy^\\\'' anvl othci cvpivsi^ions of that sort which a 
\^M^\v; txIK.wol txxvntN always has at his tinkers' ends. 
A«vi iht> vAvn>vt>atKMu I >\u:oncvi this \-oung girl 
NvnUantuuMvM tun tu>c ttvju u:^ca>incss ;' and soon 
\ vux ^x» ^^^tvi^!o^^-t j^.^x, uvrv ^viV, her cheeks 
^VvN-uc X^-o.v .,..a M vhau.^:. tU.u:-. _ . Alas ? 
^'^^^ ^ »' ^v: V ^^? v^ ^-w-, ;^ -^^ Vau:> is! 

^ '< vx I ^'v> \^ .<, ^ \, ; ^.^..^ sS? s:::: ireit 

^^'' ■ ^ "^^ ^^ * '^^^^ >- >V vv.-^ 0^ s. .--e of 



N>^. ^. >, ». x» , \ ,.^ , „^ ^, ^ 



*N.»v> Sv ...Ujwi*'— Tt 



A PRESERVATIVE TREATMENT. 32 1 

and listening to the advice of a few others, she had 
tried to make herself thinner, and to succeed in this, 
had been drinking, for the past month, a glass of 
vinegar every morning ; she told me also up till now 
no one had been let into her confidence. 

I shuddered at this confession; I felt the whole 
extent of the danger, and told it next day to Louise's 
mother, who was as much alarmed as I was, for she 
doted upon her daughter. 

No time was lost ; the doctors were called in, con- 
sultations were held, and remedies were prescribed ; 
but it was useless ! The sources of life had been 
attacked to their very foundations; and that same 
moment, when it was supposed there was danger, the 
case was already hopeless. 

Thus, for having followed imprudent advice, the 
charming Louise, reduced to that frightful state which 
accompanies consumption, fell asleep for evermore, 
scarcely eighteen years old. 

She died casting longing looks towards a future 
that for her did not pxist ; and the thought of having 
attempted her own life, although involuntarily, ren- 
dered her end more unhappy, and accelerated it 

She was the first person I saw die ; and she breathed 
her last in my arms, at the moment when she wished 
me to lift her up to let her see the dawn. Some hours 
after her death, her disconsolate mother begged me 
to accompany her in paying a last visit to what re- 
mained of her daughter ; and we observed with 
surprise that her countenance had assumed a sort 

of radiance and ecstasy which previously had not 

2 s 



322 MEDITATION XXIL 

been there. I was astonished, and the mother drew 
from it a consolatory augury. Such a change is, 
however, not rare, and Lavater mentions it in his 
" Treatise on Physiognomy." 

Anti-Corpulence Belt, 

I ID. — Every treatment for the reduction of corpu- 
lence ought to be accompanied by a precaution I had 
forgotten, and which I should have mentioned sooner, 
namely, by wearing day and night a belt compressing 
the stomach sufficiently. 

The necessity for this is obvious, for the vertebral 
column, which forms one of the walls of the in- 
testinal cavity, is firm and inflexible ; hence the 
greater weight of the intestines, when corpulence 
makes them deviate from the vertical line, causes them 
to press against the various coats of the stomach.* 
These coats can be stretched to almost any extent, 
and have not always sufficient elasticity to go back to 
their former place when the effijrt diminishes, so that 
any contrivance supported by the dorsal column, keeps 
the stomach within bounds, and restores the equili- 
brium. 

Thus, this belt prevents the stomach from yielding 
finally to the actual weight of the intestines, and gi>es 
it the necessary force to contract gradually, when Ais 
weight diminishes. 

This belt should always be worn, otherwise the 

* Mirabeau, referring to a man excessively corpulent, said that he 
had only been created to shuw to what extent the human skin could be 
stretched without bursting. 



A PRESERVATIVE TREATMENT. 323 

advantage gained in the day will be destroyed when 
it is left off during the night; but it is not incon- 
venient, and one gets soon accustomed to it 

The belt, which also serves as a monitor to show 
when any one has eaten enough, should be carefully 
made ; for the pressure ought always to be moderate 
as well as always the same, so that it should contract 
when corpulence decreases. 

A person is not obliged to wear it all his life ; it 
may be laid aside without inconvenience when he has 
reached the desired limit, and when the stomach has 
not increased in size for some weeks, though, of course, 
he must observe a proper diet Let me finally men- 
tion that for the last six years I myself have not worn 
any belt 

Peruvian Bark, 

1 1 1 . — I think one substance is decidedly anti- 
corpulent ; several observations have led me to think 
so ; nevertheless, I still have my doubts, and I trust 
the doctors will try it, and communicate the results. 

This substance is Peruvian bark. 

Ten or twelve of my acquaintances suffered from 
intermittent fever for a long time ; some were cured by 
old women's remedies, powders, and so on ; others by 
the continual use of Peruvian bark, which never fails 
in its effect 

All those who took powders, &c., and were stout, 
recovered their former corpulence ; all those who took 
bark did not again become corpulent ; which leads 
me to think that it produced this last result, for 



\ \ M\'\s\\ \noN h\ii» 

\^' « u \ v\ \ \K»Uu^N>r ^v\\x>v\\ them excrpt in the 
* , » ^ . »* M ^NV>«->^«\ f,N rv^ji<,Mi. Far, on 






\ > * V s . , 



V » ■» » 



N V >- V . ■ -V. , 



V 



* N 



A PRESEKVATIVE TREATMENT. 335 

is the effect produced, because it b badly followed, or 
is not followed at all. 

Great efforts are rare ; and if we wish our advice 
to be followed, we must only prescribe to men what 
is easy for them, and even, if we can, what is 
pleasant 

f 





MEDITATION XXIII. 

ON LEANNESS. 



Dffiuitiait. 

1 12. — Leanness is that condition when a person's 

muscles are not filled up by fat, and when he shows 

the outline of the bony framework in all its angularity. ' 

Kinds of Leanness, 

There are two kinds of leanness, the first, the 
result of the primitive disposition of the body, is 
accompanied by health, and the complete exerciK of 
all organic functions ; the second has for its cause the 
feebleness of ceitain organs, and the defective tccion 
of some others, and gives to the person attacked by 



ON LEANNESS. 327 

it a wretched and mean appearance. I knew a young 
woman of average height who only weighed sixty-five 
pounds. 

Effects of Leanness, 

1 1 3. — Leanness is no great disadvantage for men ; 
they are quite as strong and far more active. Thus, 
the father of the young lady just mentioned, although 
almost as lean as she was, was strong enough to lift 
with his teeth a heavy chair, and to throw it behind 
him, over his head. 

But it is a frightful evil for women, for with them 
beauty is more than life, and beauty consists above 
all in the roundness of limb, and in gracefully curved 
outlines. The choicest of toilettes, the most sublime 
of dressmakers, cannot disguise certain deficiencies, 
or conceal certain angles ; and it is said commonly 
that a lean lady, however beautiful she appears, loses 
something of her charms whenever she takes a pin 
out of her dress. 

*For skinny people there is no remedy, except to 
consult a member of the medical profession, and the 
regimen requires so much time, that it will be long 
before they are cured. 

Women who are bom lean, and have a good 
digestion, cannot be more difficult to fatten than 
poultry is ; and if we take a little more time, it is 
because women have a comparatively smaller stomach, 
and cannot bear as rigorous and as punctual a diet 
as those devoted animals. 

This comparison is the prettiest I could find ; I 



328 MEDITATION XXIII. 

wanted one, and ladies will pardon me, I trust, on 
account of the praiseworthy intentions with which 
this chapter is written. 

Natural Predestination, 

114. — Nature, varied in its work, has models for 
leanness as well as for corpulency. 

Those who are destined to be lean have an elon- 
gated shape. Their hands and feet are small, their 
legs slender, the back and lower part of the body are 
not filled out, their ribs are prominent, the nose is 
aquiline, the eyes almond-shaped, the mouth large, 
the chin pointed, and the hair is brown. 

Such is the general t>'pe ; some parts of the body 
may not be what I have described, but this is rarely 
the case. 

We see sometimes lean persons eat a great deal. 
Every one whom I have asked acknowledged that 
they digested their food badly, and this is why they 
always remain in the same state. 

There are thin people of every complexion and of 
every shape ; and we can distinguish them, as they 
have nothing striking, either by their features or 
in their gait ; their eyes are very dull, their lips 
pale, and their whole countenance indicates want of 
encrg>', weakness, and something that rescmWes 
suffering. One might almost say that they look as 
if they had not been completely finished, and As if 
the lamp of life within them had not yet been pro- 
perly lighted. 



ON LEANNESS. 329 

A Fattening Diet. 

115. — Every woman who is thin likes to be 
stouter. It is a wish we have heard a thousand times ; 
and it is for this reason and to render homage to this 
all-powerful sex that we will endeavour to show them 
how to replace by a natural figure those silk or 
cotton shapes which are seen exposed profusely in 
fashionable linen-draper's shops, to the great scandal 
of the passers-by, who are quite horrified, and turn 
away from those deceptive chimeras with as much or 
more care as if the reality itself were presented to 
their eyes. 

The whole secret of becoming stout consists in a 
proper diet We have only to eat and to choose our 
foods. 

With this regimen the positive prescriptions as 
regards rest or sleep are really of no consequence, 
yet we do not the less obtain our object. 

For, if you do not take exercise, it will assist you 
to become fat ; if you do so, you will become still 
stouter, for you will eat more, and when the appetite 
is skilfully satisfied, you not only repair waste, but 
you even acquire strength when needed. 

If you sleep much you will grow fat ; if you sleep 
little you will digest quicker, and you will eat more. 

We have, therefore, merely to show what those 
who wish to round their form should always eat ; and 
this task is not difficult, as may be seen from different 
rules we have already laid down. 

To solve this problem, we must present to the 

2T 



330 MEDITATION XXIIL 

Stomach food that fills it i**ithout fatiguing it, and 
that can be assimilated and converted into faL 

Let us try and give an outline of what a sylph or 
a sylphide should eat during the day if they feel dis- 
posed to assume a more material form. 

As a general rule, plenty of newly-baked bread, 
made during the day, should be eaten, and above all 
the crumb. 

In the morning, before eight o'clock, and even in 
bed if necessar>-, take a small basin of soup wth 
bread or paste, not too much, so that it may digest 
sooner, or, if you like it, a cup of good chocolate. 

At eleven o'clock, breakfast with newly-laid eggs, 
beaten up over the fire or fried, and a pie or cutlet, or 
anything else you like ; the main point is to eat eggs ; 
a cup of coffee will also do no harm. 

The dinner hour has to be regulated in such a manner 
that the breakfast is digested before again sitting down 
to table ; for we have often said that to eat one meal 
before another is digested is as bad as embezzlement 

After breakfast a little exercise must be taken ; the 
men, if their profession does not prevent them doing 
so, for duty before ever)'thing ; the ladies may go to 
the Bois dc Boulogne, to the Tuileries, to their dress- 
maker, their milliner, go shopping, or even visit son* 
of their friends to have a chat about what they hav'e 
seen. Such a bit of gossip will certainly do die 
ladies good, as it gives them much satisfaction. 

At dinner, take as much soup, meat, and fish as you 
like, taking care to add dishes containing rice, madtroni, 
sweet pastr>', sweet creams, "charlottes," and so forth. 



ON LEANNESS. 33 X 

• 

At dessert eat Savoy cakes, sponge cakes, and such 
preparations as contain starch, eggs, and sugar. 

This diet, though apparently circumscribed, has, 
nevertheless, great variety; for the whole animal 
kingdom can be laid under contribution. And great 
care should be taken to change the different kinds of 
farinaceous foods, to prepare and season them, and 
to make them tasty by every known means, so as to 
prevent a dislike for them, an invincible obstacle to 
any further improvement. 

Beer should be preferred, and, if you take wines, 
drink Bordeaux, or some from the south of France. 

Acids are to be avoided, except salads, which 
gladden the heart; take sugar with the fruit when 
not too sweet Baths should not be taken too cold : 
endeavour to breathe from time to time the pure 
country air. Eat plenty of grapes in season, and 
do not fatigue yourself at any ball by dancing too 
much. 

You should go to bed about eleven o'clock on 
ordinary days, and not later than one on festive days. 

If this regimen be followed exactly and resolutely, 
the deficiencies of Nature will soon be filled up ; the 
health will be improved as much as beauty, and 
pleasure will be enjoyed all the more, so that accents 
of gratitude will fall agreeably on the ear of the 
professor. 

Sheep, calves, oxen, poultry, carp, crayfish, and 
oysters, are fattened, and hence I draw the general 
maxim : Whatever eats can be fattened, providing the 
food is good^ and well chosen. 



336 MEDITATION XXIV. 

dressed au bleu^ cullis made of vegetables which grow 
under ground, and pastry fried in oil 

The strict observance of the Lenten fast gave rise 
to a pleasure unknown at present — namely, that of 
breaking our fast by breakfasting on Easter Day. 

A close observation shows us that the elements of 
our pleasures are, difficulty, privation, desire, and 
enjoyment. All these elements are found in breaking 
the fast» and I have seen two of my great-uncles, 
intelliijcnt, serious men, almost faint with pleasure 
when on Kaster Day a ham was carved, or a meat- 
pie cut in. lUit u degenerate race like the present 
cannot exjHTicnce such powerful sensation. 

On'i^in of the n'U.x\Ui'on of Fasting, 

I X S. I have seen this relaxation arise, and that 
gradually. 

Youn^ people up to a certain age were not compelled 
to fa^t» and picj;tiant wvnncn, or who thought them- 
scUcs so, were aUo e\ciuptcd» by virtue of their 
position, and n>cat and a supper were served to them, 
which was a great tcn^ptaiioa to those who kept the 
fast. 

Then, v.;to\>n up pt\>plo bciian to tind out that fast- 
it^^ iiulaicd tlKMtu i;a\e them a headache, and pre 
\ciucd thcit^ tt\^»n sleeping;. rhcn was ascribed ID 
tasluti; all those luilc awio.cius \vhich happen to men 

at the spt«»K l*"^^* '^^^ ^^^^' ^^**^'» ^"'^^ •** vernal eruptions, 
^tvUhiK'xN^ MvwlsMi; at the uo>c» oiul other sympums 
ol ciU't^CMetKe ^hivh inviKaic the retiewal of nature. 
So that v*ne jviM^n s.lid »v»t ta>t because he thought 



ON FASTING. 337 

himself ill ; another because he had been ill ; and a 
third because he was afraid he was going to be ill ; 
and thus it happened that fasting and collations 
became every day more rare. 

This is not alL Some writers were so severe that 
people began to fear vegetables would wholly fail, so 
the ecclesiastical authorities relaxed their strictness 
officially ; householders complained of the increased 
expense caused by a Lenten diet ; others said that 
Heaven did not wish any one to ruin one's health, 
and some men of little faith even added that one 
could not get into Paradise by famine. 

Nevertheless, the duty of fasting was recognised, 
and nearly always a permission to eat meat was 
asked from the priest, who rarely refused it, but who 
made it, however, always a condition that some 
alms should be given to replace abstinence. 

Finally, the Revolution came, filling the minds of 
all with cares, fears, and interests of another nature ; 
so that there was neither time nor opportunity to 
have recourse to the priests, of whom some were 
pursued as enemies to the State, which did not pre- 
vent others being treated as schismatics. 

To this cause, which happily exists no longer, 
another and a not less influential one should be 
added. We have completely changed the hour of 
our meals ; we do not eat either so frequently or at 
the same time as our ancestors, and fasting would 
have to be organised afresh. 

This is so patent a fact that, although I only visit 

men of regular habits, intelligent, and who are more 

2 u 



33^ MEDITATION XXIV. 

or less believers, I do not think that during the last 
five-and-twenty years I have seen outside my own 
home ten Lenten meals and one single collation. 

Many people would have felt very awkward in 
such a case ; but I know what St Paul has written, 
and I trust to his wisdom.* 

Moreover, it will be a gross mistake to think that 
this new order of things has fostered intemperance. 

The number of meals has been reduced by nearly 
half ; drunkenness has disappeared, to take refuge on 
certain days amongst the lowest classes of society ; no 
more wild revelry is going on, and a man of dissolute 
or sottish habits would no longer be received any- 
where. More than one-third of the Parisians take 
in the morning only a slight lunch, and if some 
persons abandon themselves to the delights of a 
refined and select gourmandisey I do not see why 
we should blame them for this, for I have shown 
already that ever>'body gains, and that nobody loses, 
by it. 

I cannot finish this chapter without observing that 
the tastes of the people have undergone a complete 
change. 

Every day thousands of men go to the theatre or 
to the caf^ who, forty years ago, would have spenf 
their evenings in the public-houses. 

Economy certainly gains nothing by this new ar- 
rangement ; but it is very advantageous to their 
manners, for they become improved by the stage, 

* This refers, I suppose, to " Unto the pure all things are pure " 
(Epistle to Titus i. 15). — Tr. 



[ FASTING. 



339 



whilst their minds receive some information by 
reading newspapers, and undoubtedly they are saved 
from the quarrels, the diseases, and the brutality 
which seem the invariable results of frequenting 
public-houses. ' 





MEDITATION XXV. 

ON EXHAUSTION. 



119. — We understand by exhaustion a state of 
weakness, languor, and depression caused by ante- 
cedent circumstances, and which impedes the action 
of the vital functions. 

We can, without including the exhaustion caused by 
the privation of food, mention three different kinds : — 

Exhaustion caused by muscular fatigue ; exhaustion 
caused by mental action ; and exhaustion caused bf 

A common remedy for those three kinds of ex- 
haustion is the immediate cessation of the acts pro- 
ducing this condition, which, if not illness, is rery 



ON EXHAUSTION. 34 1 



Treatment 



120. — ^After these indispensable preliminaries, let 
me state that to cure it gastronomy is ever at hand 
to present her resources. 

To a man overcome by too long a strain upon his 
muscular powers, she offers good soup, generous 
wine, tender meat, and sleep. 

To the man of learning who has been led by the 
charms of his subject to overtask his powers, she 
offers exercise in the open air to refresh his brain, a 
bath to relax his irritated nerves, fowls, vegetables, 
and rest. 

Finally, by the following ciure we may learn what 
it can do for a man who forgets that sensuousness 
has its limits and pleasure its dangers : 

A Cure performed by the Professor, 

121. — I went one day to pay a visit to one of my 
best friends, M. Rubat He told me that he was ill, 
and, in fact, I found him in a dressing-gown by his 
fireside, and in an attitude of extreme depression. 

His looks frightened me, for his face was pale, his 
eyes glaring, and his lips were dropping in such a 
manner as to show the teeth of the lower jaw, which 
was something frightful to behold. 

I inquired, full of anxiety, what had caused this 
sudden change ? He hesitated ; I urged him to tell 
it to me, and after some resistance, he stammered 
forth, whilst blushing, " My dear friend, you know that 
my wife is jealous of me, and that this idea of hers 



344 MEDITATION XXV. 

With these words he took his cane and his hat 
and left us, whilst we were very much tempted to 
make fiin of him. 

Soon I gave to my patient a large cup of my elixir 
of life ; he drank it eagerly, and wished to take 
another cup : but I begged him to wait for two hours, 
and then gave him a second dose before I went 
away. 

Next day the fever had left him, and he was almost 
well. He breakfasted as the doctor had ordered 
him, took some more doses of my draught, and was 
able in two days to return to his ordinary occupa- 
tion ; but the hanging lip did not resume its place 
till after the third day. 

In a little time my friend's accident got bruited 
about, and all the ladies chatted about it among 
themselves. 

Some admired my friend, nearly all pitied him, but 
the professor of gastronomy received great praise. 





MEDITATION XXVI. 

ON DEATH. 



Omnia mars poscit ; lex est, non poena ferire.* 

1 33. — The Creator has imposed on man six great 
and principal necessities, which are : birth, action, 
eating, sleep, reproduction, and death. 

Death is the absolute interruption of sensual rela- 
tions, and the absolute annihilation of vital forces, 
which abandon the body to the laws of decom- 
position. 

These various necessities are all accompanied, 
and alleviated, by some sensations of pleasure, and 
death itself is not without its charms when it is 









346 MEDITATION XXVI. 

natural; that is to say, when the body has passed 
through the various stages of growth, virility, old age, 
and decrepitude, to which it is destined. 

If I had not resolved only to give a very short 
chapter, I might aid the physicians who have noted 
how an animated body passes into a state of inert 
matter gradually and slowly. 

I might quote philosophers, kings, men of letters, 
who, on the confines of eternity, far from being a prey 
to grief, had pleasant thoughts, and enhanced them 
by the charm of poetry. 

I might recall the reply of Fontenelle,* who on his 
death-bed, being asked what he felt, replied, "Nothing 
but a difficulty of living." 

But I prefer only to give my ideas about death, 
based, not merely on analogy, but also on several 
carefully made observations, and of which the last 
one is as follows : — 

I had a grand-aunt, ninety-three years old, who was 
dying. Although confined to her bed for some time, 
she had all her faculties, and her state was only per- 
ceptible by the loss of her appetite, and the weakening 
of her voice. 

She had always shown great affection for me, and 
I was by her bedside ready to wait upon her lovingly, 
which did not prevent my looking at her with that 

* Bernard le Bouyer de Fontenelle (1657-1757), a nephew, through 
the mother's side, of the celebrated poet, Pierre Comeille, an author, a 
mathematician, and a philosopher, was for forty-two years secretary of the 
French Academy of Sciences, and is chiefly known by his Dialoguts 
des Marts, his Entretiens sur la pluraliU tUs Mondts ; and his Eloge* 
des AcadimicUns.—TR. 



ON DEATH. 347 

philosophical eye with which I always scan all that 
is going on around me. 

<< Are you near me, nephew ? " she asked, in a voice 
scarcely articulate. " Yes, aunt ; can I do anything 
for you ? I think a little very fine old wine will do 
you good." — «* Give it to me then, my dear ; a liquid 
will always go down." I got it as quickly as I could, 
and raising her up gently, I made her swallow half a 
glass of the best wine. She instantly revived, and 
turning on me eyes that had been very fine, said, " I 
thank you very much for this last service you render 
me. If you ever get to my age you will see that 
death becomes a want just like sleep." 

These were her last words, and half an hour after- 
wards she had fallen asleep for ever. 

Dr. Richerand has described with so much truth 
and philosophy the last decay of the human body, 
and the last moments of the individual, that my 
readers will thank me for communicating to them the 
following passage : — 

"This is the order in which the intellectual 
faculties cease and become decomposed. Reason, 
this attribute of which man claims to be the sole 
possessor, abandons him. He begins by losing the 
power of connecting his thoughts, and soon after that 
of comparing, assembling, combining, and joining 
together various ideas in order to decide on their 
relations. Then people say the patient loses his 
head, that he is wandering in his mind, and that he 
is delirious. He raves usually about ideas familiar 
to him, and the ruling passion is easily recognised 



348 MEDITATION XXVI. 

amidst it all ; the miser talks about his hidden 
treasure in a most indiscreet way; another dies, 
seized with religious terrors. A happy recollection 
of an absent fatherland is then revived in a most 
delightful and energetic manner. 

"After reasoning and judgment, the faculty of 
associating ideas is attacked. This arises in the 
condition known as < fainting,' and I have experienced 
it myself. I was one day talking with a friend when 
I felt an insurmountable difficulty in combining twO 
ideas on whose similarity I wished to form an opinion. 
However, the syncope was not complete, for I kept 
still memory and the faculty of feeling; I heard 
distinctly the persons who were around me say, * He 
has fainted,' and move about to get me out of that 
condition, < which was not without its pleasure.' 

" Memory then becomes extinguished. The patient, 
who in his delirium recognised still those who came 
near him, finally fails to know his relatives, and even 
those persons with whom he was very intimate. 

" At last, he ceases to feel ; but the senses cease to 
act in a gradual and determinate order. Taste and 
smell do not give any more signs of their existence ; 
the eyes are covered with a dull film and have a 
sinister expression ; the ear can still perceive sounds 
and noise. 

" No doubt, this is why the ancients were in the 
habit of shouting loudly in the ears of the dead to 
convince themselves that life had really left him. A 
moribund man is no longer able to smell, taste, see, 
or hear ; but the sense of feeling remains, he moves 



ON DEATH. 



349 



about in his htd, throws his arms outside, changes 
his position every instant, and exercises, as we have 
already said, motions like those of the fcetus in the 
mother's womb. Death, which is going to strike 
him, can no longer cause him any fear, for he has 
no longer any ideas, and he finishes life as he 
commenced it, without being conscious of it." * 

• Bichcnnd, A'mwaiu EUmtali dt Pl^£tli^, Dinlh ediDOO, vol. 








2(At,.'— '^^ 



MEDITATION XXVII. 

PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY. 



123. — CoOKERy is the most ancient of the arts, 
for Adam was bom hungry ; and the infant, scarcely 
come into the world, utters cries which the breast of 
the nurse can only still. 

It is of all the arts the one that has rendered 
the most important service to social life ; for the 
necessities of preparing food have taught us how to 
use fire, and it is by fire that man has subdued 

When we look at these things from a lofty point 
of view, we may count three sorts of culinary art. 

The first is occupied by the preparation of foods, 
and has kept its primitive name. 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY. 351 

The second is occupied with the analysis and 
verification of the elements, and we agree to call this 
" chemistry." 

And the third, which may be called the kitchen to 
restore strength, is better known as " pharmaceutics." 

If these differ in their object, they are connected 
by the application of fire, the use of ovens, and by 
employing the same sort of vases. 

Thus, the cook will convert a piece of beef into 
soup and bouilli; the chemist will take a similar 
piece to discover its component parts ; and the 
apothecary will make it leave the body, if by chance 
it has caused an indigestion. 

Order of Foods, 

124. — Man is an omnivorous animal; he has 
incisive teeth to divide fruits, molar teeth to grind 
grains, and dog teeth to tear flesh. The remark has 
been made that the closer man approaches the savage 
state, the stronger and more prominent are his dog 
teeth. 

It is extremely probable that man was for a long 
time frugivorous by necessit>', for of all animals of 
the ancient world, he moves with the greatest difficulty, 
and his means of attack are very limited unless he is 
armed. 

But the inborn instinct of self-improvement became 
speedily developed ; and the very consciousness of 
his weakness induced him to find out how to make 
some weapons ; to which he was also impelled by the 
carnivorous instinct, as shown by his canine teeth. 



353 MEDITATION XXVII. 

As soon as he was armed, the animals around (lim 
became his prey and his food. 

This instinct of destruction still exists : children 
almost never fail to kill any little animals that are 
abandoned to them, and they would eat them if 
hungry. 

It is not at all surprising that man should wish to 
feed on flesh ; his stomach is very small, and fruits 
have too little animalisable substances, to be quite 
sufficient to restore him ; he could much better live 
on vegetables, but this diet pre-supposes some arts 
which arose after the lapse of many centuries. 

The first arms of man were the branches of trees ; 
and later on, he had bows and arrows ; for, wherever 
man is found, in every climate, and under whatever 
latitude, we always find him armed with bows and 
arrows. This uniformity is difficult to explain. We 
do not see how the same series of ideas has presented 
itself to individuals in such different circumstances ; 
it must owe its origin to a cause hidden behind the 
veil of centuries. 

Raw flesh has only one inconvenience; it sticks 
to the teeth on account of its ropiness, otherwise it is 
not at all disagreeable to the taste. Seasoned with a 
little salt, it is easily digested, and ought to be more 
nourishing than any other. 

A captain of Croats, who I had invited to dine with 
me in 1815, said: "Gad! there is no need of so 
much fuss to make a good dinner. When we take 
the field and feel hungry, we kill the very first animal 
that falls into our hands ; we cut off a good thick 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY. 353 

slice ; we sprinkle on it a little salt we have always 
in our ' sabretasche,' place it between the saddle 
and the horse's back, set off at a gallop for some 
time : gnian^ gniatty gniaUy gnian / we have a 
dinner fit for a prince ; " and whilst saying this, 
he was working his jaws as if he were tearing the 
meat to pieces. 

When the sportsmen of Danphin^ go out shooting 
in September, they are also provided with pepper and 
salt, and if one of them kills a very fat fig-pecker, he 
plucks it, seasons it, carries it for some time outside 
his cap, and eats it 

I have been told that a bird, cooked in this way, 
eats even better than if roasted. 

Moreover, if our great-grandfathers ate their food 
raw, we have not altogether given up the habit 
The most delicate palate will very well put up with 
Aries sausages, '^mortadella di Bologna," Hamburg 
smoked beef, anchovies, pickled herrings, and other 
similar dainties, which have never seen the fire, and 
yet provoke appetite none the less. 

Discovery of Fire, 

125. — ^After people had regaled themselves for a 
pretty long time in the manner of the Croats, fire 
was discovered ; and this must again have been by 
chance, for fire does not generally exist spontaneously 
on this earth. The inhabitants of the Marianne 
Islands are said not to have been acquainted with it 



2 Y 



354 MEDITATION XXVII. 

Baking, 

I a 6.^ As soon as fire was known, the instinct of 
improvement applied it to meats, firstly, to dry them, 
and secondly, to roast them on hot embers. 

Meat thus treated was found much better than 
raw; it is firmer, triturates with less difficulty, 
and the osmazome, by becoming browner, imparts 
to it a savoury aroma, which still continues to 
please us. 

However, it was soon found that fiesh cooked on 
the embers got rather dirty, for some ashes or some 
particles of coal always adhered to it, of which it was 
difficult to free it To remedy this inconvenience, 
spits were used to hold the meat above the embers, 
which were supported on each side by stones of a 
suitable height. 

Then the act of grilling or broiling was discovered, 
by which meat was prepared in a simple as well as a 
savoury way ; for all grilled meat is very tasty, partly 
owing to the smoke. 

Things were not much further advanced in the 
time of Homer ; and I trust that it will be a pleasure 
for many of my readers to see how Achilleus enter- 
tained in his tent three of the principal Grecian chieiis, 
of whom one was a king. 

I recommend this passage to the ladies, for Achil- 
leus was the most handsome of the Greeks, though 
his pride did not prevent him from shedding tears 
when Briscis was taken from him. 

The following passage from the ninth book of the 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY. 355 

" Iliad " is taken from the masterly translation of Mr. 
P. Stanhope Worsley. 



<« 



, . Patroclus to his friend gave ear. 
Then in the blazing firelight his great board 
He planted, and thereon of hog, goat, sheep. 
All flourishing with fat, the chines be stored. 
These held Automedon, and wide and deep 
Achilleus sliced, then spitted the full heap ; 
And a great fire divine Patroclus lit. 
But when the crackling flame began to sleep. 
He raked the embers, on the stones each spit 
Laid, and the sacred salt then sprinkled, as is fit. 
So with much care he roasted all the meat, 
And on the table ranged it, and set bread 
In silver baskets for the chiefs to eat. 
Achilleus dealt out portions head by head, 
Where he sat fronting, o'er the banquet spread, 
Divine Odysseus from the adverse wall ; 
Then bade Patroclus in the fire to shed 
The Gods* due part, and he obeyed ; and all, 
With eager hand outstretched, upon the viands fall. 
When the desire was quenched of food and drink, 
Aias to Phoenix nodded, and divine 
Odysseus in his heart knew what to think. 
And brimmed his goblet, and held forth the wine, 
And spake : ' Achilles, hail, dear friend of mine 1 ' " * 

Thus a king, a king's son, and three Grecian chiefs 
dined very well on bread, wine, and broiled meat 
We imagine that if Achilleus and Patroclus pre- 

* The following note is from the French of M. BrilIat*Savartn :— " I 
have not copied the original text, which few persons would have under- 
stood, but I thought it best to give a Latin version* because this 
language, being more widely known, and moulding itself perfectly on 
the Greek, lends itself better to the details and fehe simplicity of this 
heroic repast." Our author gives also a rendering into French of this 
passage by M. Dugas-Montbel, whom he calls "a gentle author, polite, 
and rather fond of good living for a hellenist." 






%^ J 



liw.iL «i:i' i: i»ru*r' I' ti ;:rtatr' concnr K ini 
<..-.u:i. -.j*ic' vu*rM viK M^iir: iii«:: • ic: nsnitir 

i.«t u i: Iaj' ••^♦L\3:»e* iu a'jcotii:: o: int cnsc*- 
i *i«, *:i'.'<^:i. o^ aiit!iiai- MuHtx wiil biooL anil 

lyuji:«/ liiii K'^Ky.i. aire %»!U)uu* docDt itnij' before 
p.^i;> a.f' I'lU?!' weic a^^o'»i<ilt:c w:ii tot pieasxzies 
k/ liic U'vi*::.'. Uiiiuu. Kj!:iiir'_u !»aii;' tut wrmnrTF 
u' :^al.ux» la*, lu.e. o' U*». j^oa^. aiic iiit acnievcnicEiE 
i/ w«ii»i'-^i.. '* :i«^} i«>r»ijec t bor. o*^ pn*:stiiooc^ am. 
iii'^a iit^'rj) tiJt diwi** Ijtrtiie' i::!:i>*:l' wai trainee trv- 
><^i:*t u^ liiC-o* inei. iavouitc O) rj*:avtai. Ht caniL 
ii<^' itavt b'^icc 57C ii'.;i I* liii yotru'jal studies iiaL 

j'acutii**. .Oa',!*;'** i«riiuir»;:: tiia'. riuniy iie\'gnnhkf!F 
iiicijtioc; of i/<>:jcc iiit:a' iL art) par. of hii workL. 
'J lit Jl«^>M,^vi wM,re jiju':i iii<x*_ acr aii'j*;c or. account 
</ iui»iii^' CvN»:;j' Jv^ a M/ri:5jO*^a:>it unit VL I-^ypt : 

■^. »' .^ i ^.t »*., <• .>■;'< kt' »^ u.^•'«^.l K nw It l.*^',<ir SL" «:vHJC s- 

tf .< <y'«-<** ' ' !».'. «.#• »i' . .J' i.«?» it i'>,j«»tj'' . Ui'~ srrt: »i occ 

*• . v»«' >/ ..*./ ».«. .-..I'.vi J '"* ' '• -*f *>'.'. ft' I' ;■ i« .»!' i'jrn Lort*y 

ic. ^1 ».'.' ^' i» ji^.i.f Li>. «,> i.< tu«,i.<'M </ V •• '. iti*:a'.. Ai tiiftance 
• ,..<< .« / *>.'/(.' .V 11 ^ ,• ly* i *^ •<. u ti<* I .> t»jM v^ UiCr 'Ilia:.. 
»>>..'. v'l >.i<.« < ^<-- .-,»•.>.«. <.u ..' ^ 1 -; V '/ >^ ^^u'.>c;. iu. Uit ouiy SOUSE 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY. 357 

they had vessels to stand the fire, and it was in such 
a pot that the pottage of lentiles was made, which 
Jacob sold so dear to his brother Esau.* 

It is really difficult to divine how man commenced 
to work metals. It is said that Tubal-Cain was the 
inventor of this art 

In the present state of our knowledge, one metal 
is used by us to treat another metal; we hold 
them with iron tongs ; we forge them with iron 
hammers ; we cut them with steel files, but as yet I 
have never met any person who could explain to me 
how the first pair of tongs or the first hammer were 
made. 

Feasts of the Orientals, — Of the Greeks. 

127. — Cooking made great progress when we had 
either iron or earthenware pots that could stand the 
heat ; we could then season meats, cook vegetables, 
and soup ; gravy, and jellies could be made. AU 
these things follow and are connected with one an- 
other. 

The most ancient books extant make honourable 
mention of the feasts of the Eastern kings. It is not 
difficult to believe that those monarchs who ruled 
over countries fertile in everything, and especially in 
spices and perfumes, kept sumptuous tables ; but 
details are wanting ; we only know that Cadmus, who 
introduced writing into Greece, had been cook to the 
king of Sidon. 

It was also among those voluptuous and effeminate 

* Genesis, ch. xzv. verse 34.— Tk. 



J53 MEDmkTTcnf xsvn. 

canons f' i^ ' rte rzsroni "5*35 Immtincsd ti annnund 
in^ -¥11*1 zjnciies ±e banqcem:^ Tir.ie^T. ami •at lyuii;^ 

T!ii5 rcnaeneit. -vhuii rather ienoies weakness. 
WIS not everiere wea. necsiveii. T'ji'^se De»?uies 
•via ielii 5tr?rTT.na. mil rDurace m espcjiai esteenu 
ricsc .imnn'j^T wiicm iiip-iiy was ip *qne «i i ■.n-.iit;. 
r^'ecred x ir x Icn^ :nne : our :t was accnreti ,ir 
Aiiieas, in it was :ii3r aianv vears liie ^j^nerai lustcm 
ihr^TiLrticiit the n^.^liseii woriiL 

C.:<:k2ry and its pleasures were in zr^ac tivour 
siTLcnc the Aiheniaiis. i '^cjcie at eiecmc taste, and 
e.tcer xr acveines. Klc^rs. pnvate men ct wealiiu 
peers, and learned men. ^-."e the examcle. and even 
the philcscpiiers did not think they ^.^*^ a rt-^ht of 
rethsing" to share the enTcyments drawn, from the 
bcscm ci Xamre. 

Fr:ni what we read in ancfenc acthcrs» there Ls n»3 
doubt that their feasts were ct the hi.chest q-jality. 

HimrTT?^ lishin:^. and cocmerte :?n>n:red them 
manv of the oc»ects which are still considered ex- 
cellent. and cociDctftion made them rise to an exces- 
sive price. 

AH the arts rivalled with each other for the adorn- 
ment of their tables, arccnd which the gnests were 
placed, l>Tn^ on couches covered with rich purple 

They made it a smdy to enhance the pleasures 
of the table by agreeable conversadon, and cable-talk 
became a science. 

The songs introduced towards the third coutsc lost 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY. 359 

their ancient simplicity; they no longer celebrated ex- 
clusively the gods, the heroes, and deeds mentioned 
in history, but they sang of friendship, pleasure, and 
love, with a sweetness and a harmony that our modem 
dry and harsh tongues can never equal. 

The wines of Greece, which are still considered 
excellent, and ranging from the sweetest to the most 
heady, were examined and classified by gourmets. 
In certain repasts the entire scale was gone through, 
and, contrary to what occurs at the present day, the 
glasses increased in size in proportion as the wine 
poured out in them was better. 

The prettiest women appeared to adorn these 
voluptuous assemblies. Dances, games, and amuse- 
ments of every kind prolonged the pleasures of the 
evening. They breathed sensuousness at every pore, 
and more than one Aristippus who arrived under the 
banner of Plato, retired as a follower of Epicurus.* 

Learned men vied with each other to write about 
an art that procured such sweet enjoyments ; and, 
though Plato, Athenaeus,t and many other authors, 
have preserved their names to us, those works are 
lost. Most of all, we regret a poem on <<Gas- 



* Plato, the greatest of Greek philosophers, represents here the highest 
Truth and Morality; Epicurus, another Greek sage, is supposed to 
have taught his pupils that "happiness and enjoyment are the sum- 
mum boHum of life ; " Aristippus, a Greek philosopher of Cyrene, the 
father of " hedonism " (the pursuit of pleasure), was not a pupil of Plato, 
but of Socrates.— Tr. 

t Athensus of Naucratis, in Egypt, flourished at the beginning of 
the third century. We have an abridgment of his " Banquet of the 
Sophists at Dinner," full of anecdotes and everything relating to the 
social usages of the Greeks.— Tk. 



360 MEDITATION XXVII. 

tronomy " of Archestrates,* a friend of one of the 
Pericles. 

"This great writer," says Theotimus,t "travelled 
through all lands and across all seas to leam for 
himself the best things they produced. During 
his travels he did not inquire into the manners of 
the peoples, since it is impossible to change them, 
but he entered into the laboratories where the deli- 
cacies of the table were prepared, and only held 
intercourse with those men who could advance the 
art he delighted in. His poem is a treasure of 
science, and does not contain a single line which 
is not a precept" 

Such was the condition of cookery in Greece, J 
and it remained thus until a handfid of men came 
to establish themselves on the banks of the Tiber, 
extended their sway over the neighbouring peoples, 
and finished by invading the world. 

Banquets among the Romans, 

128. — Good living was unknown to the Romans 
as long as they were only fighting to secure their 

* Though nearly the whole of the works of Archestrates of Gela, a 
Greek poet who lived during the first half of the fourth century B.C., 
are lost, fragments of them have been published in 1823, in Palermo, 
by Dominico Scina, under the w\^ I Framnunti delta Gattrommtia di 
ArchestraU. — Tr. 

t Theotimus was a Stoic philosopher. — Athen. xtii. — ^Tk. 

X The Marquis de Cussy, already mentioned in the Preface of M. 
Monselet, page 4, says in his Art CuUnaire: "In spite of happy 
attempts, Athens never possessed the grandi cuisine^ and the reason of 
this is obvious — too much was sacrificed to sweet things, fruits, and 
flowers. Moreover, she never had bread of the finest flour such as 
Imperial Rome had, nor Italian spices, nor her appetising sauces, nor 
white Rhine wines." — Tr. 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY. 36 1 

independence, or to conquer their neighbours, as 
poor as themselves. Then their generals handled 
the plough, lived on vegetables, and so forth. Frugi- 
vorous historians never fail to praise these primitive 
times, when frugality was greatly honoured. 

But when their conquests were extended to Africa, 
Sicily, and Greece, where they had feasted at the 
expense of the vanquished in those countries where 
civilisation was more advanced, they brought back 
to Rome the art of preparing some dishes that had 
pleased them abroad, and everything leads us to 
believe that they were well received. 

The Romans sent a deputation to Athens to brixig 
back a copy of the laws of Solon ; * they went there 
also to study polite literature and philosophy. Whilst 
refining their manners, they learned the pleasures of 
the Athenian banquets; and cooks came to Rome 
as well as orators, philosophers, rhetoricians, and 
poets. 

In time, as a result of the victories of Rome, all 
the wealth of the universe flowed into her treasury, 
and the luxury of the table was increased to a height 
almost incredible. 

The Romans ate of everything, from the grass- 
hopper to the ostrich, from the dormouse to the 
wild boar.t 

* Solon, an Athenian lawgiver and philosopher, bom about 640 b.c, 
was said to be a lineal descendant of Codnis, the last king of Atheqs, 
and is generally placed among the seven sages of Greece. — Tr. 

t This is one of the recipes of Apicius, the celebrated Roman gour- 
nuind^ — 

Glirbs Y KK&\.^Glirts uici0 pcrcino^ ittm pulpis ex cmmi glirium 
mtmbro Miis, CMm/i/err, HttcUis, laure, Uquamine./arciM gUreSt et 

2 Z 



362 MEDITATION XXVII. 

Everything that could provoke the palate was 
attempted as seasoning, or used as a relish, and even 
some substances of which we cannot conceive the use, 
such as assafoetida, rue, and so forth. 

The known universe was laid imder contribution by 
armies and travellers, and they brought from Africa 
guinea-fowl and truffles, rabbits fx:om Spain, pheasants 
from Greece, where they had been imported from the 
banks of the Phasis, and peacocks from the fax ends 
of Asia. 

The most important men among the Romans 

SMtos in tegula positost mittts injumum, aut fanes in clibane eoftiett 
which reads in English thus: Stuffed Dormice. — ^Take dormice in 
pork fat, with bits of meat taken from every limb of the dormouse and 
pounded : stuff with pepper, kernels, assafoetida, sauce ; place them in 
tiled receptacles, put them in a warm place, or cook them in an oven. 

Dormice were considered a delicate dish ; scales were sometimes placed 
on the table to verify their weight. The following epigram of Martial 
on the subject of dormice has come down to us : — 

Toia miki Hormitur kyems, et ^nguicr silo 
Temport sum quo nu nil nisi somnus alii. 

Or in English : — I sleep all the winter, and become fatter daring that 
time in which nothing but sleep finds me. 

Dr. Lister, fond of good living, and physician to Queen Anne, who 
also liked to eat and drink well, speaking of the advantages in 
cookery of the use of scales, remarks, " that if twelve larks do not weigh 
twelve ounces, they are scarcely eatable ; that they are passable if they 
weigh twelve ounces ; but that if they weigh thirteen ounces, they may 
be considered plump and excellent." — Brii.i^t-Savakin. 

Mr. John Cordy Jeaffresun, in his *' A Book about the Table," vol. 
ii. ch. xiv., " On Epicures," says : " One of the unfeminine propensities 
attributed to Queen Anne by scandalous go&sip is commemorated in the 
saying which, with piquant reference to the position of her statue 
before St. Paul's Cathedral, likens the habitual tippler to Queen Anne, 
* who turns her back on the church, and looks towards the wine^shop.' 
Champagne was the favourite wine in which Her Majesty is said to 
have indulged with habitual freedom. In justice, however, to this queen 
of proverbial deadness, it should be observed that the impeachment 
of her sobriety is sustained by no conclusive evidence." — Tr. 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY. 363 

prided themselves on having beautiful gardens, where 
they cultivated not only fruits already known a long 
time, such as pears, apples, figs, grapes, but also those 
which were brought from different countries, such as 
the apricot from Armenia ; the peach from Persia ; 
the quince from Sidon ; the strawberry from the 
valleys of Mount Ida, and the cherry, the conquest of 
Lucullus, from the kingdom of Pontus. These importa- 
tions, which, of course, took place under very different 
circumstances, prove at Icfist that the impulse was a 
general one, and that every one made it his glory, and 
considered it his duty to contribute to the enjoyments 
of the sovereign people. 

Amongst eatables, fish was an especial object of 
luxury. Certain kinds of fish were preferred to other 
kinds, or when they had been caught in certain 
waters. The fish of distant countries was brought in 
pots full of honey ; and when some of these fishes were 
of more than ordinary size, they were sold at very high 
prices, for there was a feeling of rivalry among not a 
few of the buyers, some of whom were richer than 
kings. 

On liquids great care and attention were also 
bestowed. 

The wines of Greece, Sicily, and Italy, were espe- 
cial favourites with the Romans ; and as their price 
depended on the district, or on the year in which they 
were grown, a sort of record of birth was inscribed on 
each amphora. 

O nata mecum consult Manlio, — Horace.* 
* Ode 3, 21. L 



364 MEDITATION XXVII. 

This was not all ; as a result of that instinct for 
improvement we have already indicated, more piquancy 
and more flavour was attempted to be given to wine ; 
and they infused flowers, spices, and various drugs 
into it, so that such preparations which contemporary 
authors have transmitted to us under the name of 
condita^ must have burnt the mouth, and violently 
irritated the stomach. 

Already at that time, the Romans had thoughts of 
alcohol, though it was only discovered fifteen centuries 
later. 

But it is above all in the accessories of the banquet 
that this gigantic luxury was carried out with the 
greatest success. 

All the furniture necessary for such feasts was made 
with great care, of the choicest materials, and by first- 
rate workmen. The number of courses gradually 
increased to twenty, or even more, and at each fresh 
course everything was taken away that had been 
employed in the preceding course. 

Slaves were especially appointed for each detail of 
the service, and such duties were minutely distin- 
guished. The most precious perfumes scented the 
banqueting hall. A sort of heralds proclaimed the 
merit of dishes worthy of special attention ; they 
announced the claim which they had to this kind of 
ovation ; in short, nothing was omitted that might 
stimulate the appetite, sustain the guests' attention, or 
prolong their enjoyment 

This luxury had also its aberrations and its eccen- 
tricities. Such were those banquets where the fish 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY. 365 

and birds served were counted by thousands ; and 
those dishes whose sole merit was their extravagant 
price, as a dish composed of the brains of five hun- 
dred ostriches, and another dish in which were seen 
the tongues of five thousand birds who had all been 
taught to say a few words. 

From what precedes, it appears to us that we may 
easily account for the enormous sums which Lucullus 
spent on his table, and for the expensive banquets 
that were given in the hall of Apollo,* where it was 
a point of honour to exhaust all the means known of 
gratifying the sensual appetites of the guests. 

Resurrection of Lucullus, 

129. — Those glorious days may yet come back 
again before our own eyes, and those marvels might 
be renewed, if we only had a Lucullus. 

Let us suppose that some man, known to be 
powerfully rich, wished to celebrate an important 
poHtical or financial event, and to give on this occa- 
sion a banquet worthy of being remembered, and 
without any regard to expense. 

Let us suppose that he summons all the arts to 
adorn in its various parts the place where the feast 
will be held, and that the caterers be ordered to 
exhaust all the resources of. science in providing 
everything of the best, as well as to produce the 

* Lucullus (b.c. xzo-57) was a wealthy Roman general, noted for his 
banquets and his gastronomic indulgence, for, sometimes above seven- 
teen hundred pounds were expended in a single meal. In his palace 
there were several halls named after the gods. — Tk. 



■* ■< 



«• «» 



" r 



•» «--',— 



i. .-»- .- 



> • • ^ -- 



i' • 



< > 



/ » <• » » 



' • • » 



' ' > 



/ 






PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY. 367 

Roman, I have also told the reader what used to be 
considered then necessary as accessories to a banquet 
where they always introduced actors, singers, mimes, 
contortionists, and everything that could contribute 
to increase the enjoyments of persons whose only 
object was to amuse themselves. 

What has been done amongst the Athenians, then 
amongst the Romans, later on amongst ourselves 
during the Middle Ages, and finally in our own day, 
springs from the nature of man, who looks with im- 
patience for the end of the career he has chosen, as 
well as from a certain uneasiness which torments him 
so long as the whole o£ his life he can dispose of is 
not entirely occupied. 

Lectisternium and Incubitation, 

1 30. — Like the Athenians, the Romans ate lying 
down ; but they only adopted this habit in a some- 
what roundabout way. 

At first they used couches for the sacred repasts 
offered to the gods ; their first magistrates and 
chief men afterwards adopted this practice, and 
in a little time it became general, and was retained 
until the beginning of the fburth century of the 
Christian era. 

These couches, which at first were only a sort of 
benches, stuffed with straw and covered with skins, 
soon shared in the luxury that invaded everything 
connected with feasting. They were made of the 
most precious woods, inlaid with ivory, gold, and 
sometimes precious stones ; they had cushions of won- 



368 MEDITATION XXVII. 

derful softness, whilst the carpets which covered 
them were adorned with magnificent embroideries. 

People laid on the left side, supporting themselves 
on their elbows, and usually there were three persons 
on the same couch. 

In my opinion this manner of reclining at table, 
which the Romans termed lectisternium^ was not so 
commodious or comfortable as the one we have 
adopted, or rather taken up again. 

From a physical point of view, the supporting with 
the elbows requires a certain display of strength, in 
order to keep one's balance ; moreover, some pain 
must have been felt when the weight of one part of 
the body rested on the elbow-joint 

From a physiological aspect, there is also something 
to say about a reclining posture; swallowing takes 
place in a less natural manner ; the foods have a 
greater difficulty in going down, and do not form so 
good a mass in the stomach. 

The ingestion of liquids, or the action of drinking, 
was above all still more difficult ; and it must have 
required special care to avoid spilling unseasonably 
wine from those large goblets which shone on the 
tables of great people. It is without doubt, during 
the lectisternium period that the proverb arose: 
" There is many a slip 'twixt the cup and the lip." 

It could not have been much easier to eat in a 
cleanly manner when lying down, especially when we 
consider that many of the guests wore long beards, 
and that the fingers, or at most the knife, was used 
to convey the food to the mouth, — for the use of the 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY. 369 

fork is modem, none having been found in the ruins 
of Herculaneum, though nevertheless a good many 
spoons were discovered there. 

We also think that modesty was not always re- 
spected during such banquets, when people so fre- 
quently overstepped the limits of intemperance, when 
men and women were reclining on the same couches, 
and when it was not rare to see some of the guests 
asleep. 

Nam pransus jaceo, ei saiur supinus 
Pertundo tunicapique, palliumque. 

The first interference with this reclining posture at 
meals took place in the name of morality. 

As soon as the Christian religion had escaped 
from the persecutions that made its cradle bloody, 
and had acquired some influence, its ministers lifted 
up their voices against the excesses of intemperance. 

They exclaimed against the length of meals, where 
all their precepts were violated, and the guests sur- 
rounded by every pleasure. Having adopted by 
choice an austere diet, they considered gourmandise 
one of the capital sins, bitterly criticised the promis- 
cuity of sexes, and above all, attacked the habit of 
eating on couches, a habit which appeared to them 
the result of a culpable effeminacy, and the principal 
cause of the abuses they deplored. 

People listened to these outspoken threats ; and 
couches ceased to adorn the festive halls ; they re- 
verted to the ancient custom of eating in a sitting pos- 
ture, and by a rare good luck, such a reform required 
by morality has not been detrimental to enjoyment. 

3 A 



37© MEDITATION XXVII. 

Poetry, 

131. — During the period we have been describing 
convivial poetry underwent a new modification, and 
took in the verses of Horace, Tibullus, and other 
nearly contemporary authors, a languor and an 
effeminacy unknown to the Greek muses. 

Dulc^Hdentem Lalagem amabo 
Dulce loqtunteiru* 

Quarts quot mihi basiatUmes 
Tua^ Lesdia, sint satis superque, f 

Pande^ puella^ pande capillulos 
Flavos, lucenUs ut aurum nilidum, 
Pande^ puella^ collum candidvm 
Productum bene candidis humeris. % 

Invasion of the Barbarians, 

132. — The five or six centuries which we have just 
reviewed in the small number of preceding pages, form 
the golden age of the culinary art, as well as for those 
persons who loved and cultivated it ; but the arrival, 
or rather, the invasion, of the northern races changed 
everything, upset everything, and those days of glory 
were followed by a prolonged and terrible darkness. 

At the appearance of these strangers, the alimen- 

* I will love sweet Lalage, smiling and talking. Hokacb, Ode i, as, 
33. — Tr. 

t You ask, O Lesbia, how many kisses will be enough and to spare. 
ClTULLL'S, Carmen VII. — Tr. 

t Spread out, O girl, spread out your yellow hair, as bright as 
poiished gold; spread out, O girl, your white neck well raised up (rom 
white shoulders. 

These verses are attributed by our author to Callus, but this caa 
only be conjecturally, as he left none. — Tr. 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY. 37 1 

tary art disappeared with the other sciences, of which 
it is the companion and the consoler. Most of the 
cooks were massacred in the palaces to which they 
belonged; others took flight rather than regale the 
oppressors of their country, and the small num- 
ber who came to offer their services were affronted 
by being refused. Those savage mouths, and those 
hot throats, were insensible to the delights of refined 
cheer. Enormous quantities of meat and venison, 
and an unlimited amount of the strongest liquors, were 
sufficient to make those barbarians happy ; and as 
the usurpers were always armed, the majority of those 
banquets degenerated into orgies, and in the banquet- 
ing hall often blood was spilled. 

Nevertheless, it is in the nature of things that that 
which is excessive does not last long. The con- 
querors grew at last tired of being cruel ; they allied 
themselves to the vanquished, took a veneer of civili- 
zation, and commenced to become acquainted with 
the gentleness of social life. 

Meals were affected by this improvement. A man 
invited his friends, less to fill their stomachs than to 
entertain them ; the guests saw that some efforts were 
made to please them ; they behaved, in their turn, 
more decently, though they enjoyed themselves, and 
the duties of hospitality became more affectionate. 

These ameliorations, which took place towards the 
fifth century of our era, became more distinct under 
Charlemagne,** whose Capitularies prove that this 
great king personally interested himself to let his 



372 MEDITATION XXVII. 

domains furnish forth some of the luxtiries of his 
table. 

Under this prince, and under his successors, such 
feasts assumed a gallant and chivalrous aspect ; ladies 
came to embellish the court ; they distributed the 
rewards of valour ; and one might then see on the 
tables of princes, a pheasant with gilded claws, and 
a peacock with expanded tail, brought in by pages 
covered with gold, and beautiful maidens, whose inno- 
cence did not exclude the desire to please. 

Observe that it was for the third time that women, 
shut up by the Greeks, the Romans, and the Franks, 
were called upon to adorn those banquets. The Turks 
alone are opposed to this appeal ; but dreadful tem- 
pests threaten this unsociable people, and ere thirty 
years have rolled on, the powerful voice of the cannon 
will have proclaimed the general emancipation of the 
Odalisks.* 

The movement, once inaugurated, has been trans- 
mitted to us, and has greatly progressed by the 
impulse given to it by succeeding generations. 

Women, even those of the most aristocratic rank, 
occupied themselves in their own houses with the 
preparation of food, on which they looked as part of 
the duties of hospitality, and which continued in 
France even as late as the end of the seventeenth 
century. 

Under their fair hands some kinds of food under- 

* Onr author wrote this in 1825, and though the '* general emandpar 
lion of the Odalisks" has not yet uken place, *' dreadful tempestt" still 
threaten the Turks, and they have heard the *' powerful voice of the 
cannoa about the time he predicted."— Tr. 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY. 373 

went sometimes strange disguises ; now and then an 
eel had a tongue like a serpent ; a hare, the ears of a 
cat, and other comicalities. They made great use of 
the spices which the Venetians commenced to bring 
from the East, as well as of the scented waters supplied 
by the Arabs, so that fish was sometimes cooked in 
rose-water. The luxury of the table consisted above 
all in an abundance of dishes, and things went so far 
that the French kings thought themselves obliged to 
put a stop to this, and published some sumptuary 
laws, which had the same fate as those of the Greek 
and Roman legislators ; they were made fun of^ 
eluded, forgotten, and they now are only mentioned 
in books as historical curiosities. 

People continued, therefore, to eat and drink well 
as long as they could, and especially in abbeys, con- 
vents, and other religious houses, because the wealth 
of such establishments was less exposed to the 
chances and dangers of the civil wars, which for so 
long a time desolated France. 

Being thoroughly certain that the French ladies 
took always more or less an interest in what was 
going on in their kitchens, we may safely conclude 
that to their intervention is due that indisputable 
pre-eminence French cookery has always enjoyed in 
Europe, and which it has principally acquired by an 
immense quantity of delicate, light, and tasty pre- 
parations, of which women alone could have con- 
ceived the idea. 

I have said that people enjoyed good eating and 
drinking " as long as they could," but they could not 



- , ^-^.^ .»-,», .,»^». ^ .~.,^ — ^^ 

i*-** ^.*rT i.".An«ti-.npr: ■ i .isnr:^ .nfi riev --e^ not 
»•— .■\«%r •^..•<sr. : .ft .Oil *cc '.jjlL -li z'lc ^ense 






,r».^ .r r A*..rf* .^.':;,> ZL," ne -rrc- uizztirs ma 
St' ->'/•».'-> •-^r^ Tal ".isrt: n ze "zniLiiiui— n n 't 

.,4» -.. Ai n 'Tr '^"n :rne. lav*? vmei-eii -vine r^ 

'«c» -«-./-. .n«'^ v^'TP' ".or ^-5 -.ucz25..'irzL. icn ze 

,f r*- «*r\' *>;f<;r. H.-**?! :**t"r*» ze "C'.-m ^t Zidxi-js 

) Jt»w/-* »,» -'.Tr-»-,,^%»«« -Sr .>':r.-.r. •^rwhe'i''^ *:; ais« r: _:sr« -?vxirCT 
c «T« »••.'•-«. ^ ir.i >K^ jirrfviut%-ii ^ato 3jkt^via. una. .ui£n*aras 

j» !»,.■ .v<. 'i-.f *v«r «»#»n ;n ? *t %. Put Tec, Jl »*uca iL le 'lasn 
"■» /v-« ♦ ■*<»./■.' »>»i/>n jrii«. « :'^"r "ine n.-ii in uuneter. mil ive : 
n- /ii T ' .'nit .* '«5r/ priaty, ^wd i4i,;r^y resenioica a. Jiierry. 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY. 375 

Aga, the Turkish ambassador at the Court of France, 
on whom our great-great-grandmothers doted, made 
them take their first cups in 1669. An Armenian 
sold it publicly at the fair of Saint Germain in 1672, 
and the first Parisian cafi was in the street St Andr^ 
des-Arts, and was adorned with mirrors and marble 
tables, almost like those of our own. 

Then, also, sugar made its appearance,* and Scar- 
ron,t complaining that his sister had, from avarice, 
ordered the holes of her sugar-sifter to be made 
smaller, at least tells us that in his time such a 
household article was not uncommon. 

It is again during the seventeenth century that 
brandy began to be used. Distillation, of which 
the first idea had been introduced by the Crusaders, 
up to that time remained a secret only known to a 
small number of adepts. About the commencement 
of the reign of Louis XIV., J stills were no longer 
very rare ; but it was only in the reign of Louis XV. 
that it was habitually drunk by the people, and not 
until the last few years has alcohol been obtained in 
one distillation by slow and gradual steps. 

About the same time people began also to use 
tobacco; so that those four objects so important to 
commerce and the revenue, namely : sugar, coffee, 
brandy, and tobacco, are scarcely two centuries old. 

* Whatever Lucanus may say, the ancients did not know soKur ; for 
it is a product of art, and without crystallisation cane-sugar has only a 
mawkbh and useless taste. 

t 1610-1660. 

X 1638-1715. 



J73 '.rKDrTATiox :cxvtl 

Snrh \ rnm hi nation has -eased in oar days. We 
itrt IS tond iif ^'ood '.ivini^ is oar incestors* .md 
oprbnns more so, *mt we interest )urseives nmrh 
le<;s ihoiit 'vhat s ^'oin^ m '^eiow -tairs. A nod 
;> '>prhrtns 'he -oie -nnute >t lomiranQn trtar \ve 
pav *o *he trtisre -.vno nleases -is : .inn tne rcstanzant 
"vPf^ner^— fhar s *o sav, -ne ■coks -^t *rLe nuciic — 
'ire *he onlr ines rhiom 've ••errroiiv ^^nuiie. which 
'.Mrt^^ 'hrm ouicklv imoni;st ^Teox v'2.pi:an.sT5. ^V;/-cf 

Ir 'vns *or Louis XIV. "hat *he i'rn^ i'/:J, '*■ the 
rood -^ertr," is ^le -allea it. 'vas ':)roucnt from the 
Lp"^inr, ind r -s 'lerause le 'vas so '.veak :a his 
old "le •Ii.ir 'i<M:pnrs -.vere nvenrea.'^ 

T' IS "irnrc -iitterprt lomenmes *rnni -.veakness and 
frr.rn -haf •liniTilfv ot jv^nii, "vhich men j-opears 
:,fr^r 'he .iTC ")f -six'ty- : some innts -vere 'oncocted 
{rr>jr\ '>r'indy ind sHv^ar. romninea -virh odours : and 
*nf»^p 'v^rp '-ailed, arrorcinL; to the <:iistom. of the 

S»;^li :s -he or.;in ")f the irt of :he modem liqueur- 
iranMrarfir^rs. 



.•>f ^t" ^^ '')• -ff V<^r^; 'he iVx^ i* -fUalU t Lx 3*t^^mu^ 'tit the 
\f->r'' ir""^-.* ^f .*-,r"rjifioiir , 'he -W x» -^n^ « .<A \Vxi«r. jv 'ne 
\f-»'--"i- »' V-.l*- • "h** ■i*ifrir"^iSi* 'a ve-'rra. .c ^a^Oit. lot *ae .iqueur^ 

,)..^v^ • f *• .- 'hi* Mni - » » .»/•»-••* ••-T. i::er 5.c M-.r^..ai'a •▼ile 

♦ r ■'• .<? -"-' m:"^ -or^r*^, r'"'* ir* jf Tir.K.n:;;^ ' ":«ir^ was *arou:^ht 
r- .Ti r*i!v Pfo t*'rin'"e iiir.ntr 'tie r^i^n )l H -nrv tl. • :-i'>-rT3.';jL cj«e 
.' •'^ M' -Mt'on v'i . the -:i^pter ^n 'Jic •* V.in^as ua«s at iu«;ar, ' 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY. 379 

It is remarkable that about the same time the 
culinary art flourished at the English court Queen 
Anne was very fond of good eating and drinking, 
and did not disdain to consult her cook. English 
cookery-books still contain receipts for some dishes 
which are called " after Queen Anne's fashion." ♦ 

Gastronomic science which remained stationary 
during the sway of Madame de Maintenon, f con- 
tinued its upward march imder the Regency. 

The Duke of Orleans, J a clever prince, who was 
worthy to have friends, treated them to banquets as 
artistic as refined. On the best authority I have been 
told that on his table was deserving of notice piquis 
of extreme delicacy, matelotes as appetising as by the 
banks of the river, and turkeys superbly trufHed. 

Those truffled turkeys, of which the reputation 
and the price are still increasing, appear hke bene- 
ficent stars, and make the eyes sparkle of all sorts 
of gourmands of every category, whilst their faces 
beam with delight, and they themselves dance with 
pleasure. § 

The reign of Louis XV. was not less favourable 
to the culinary art Eighteen years of peace cured 
without much difficulty all the wounds made by more 
than sixty years of war ; the wealth created by in- 
dustry and distributed by conunerce, or acquired by 

* See Meditation XXVII. » p. 361, last note.— Tb. 

t i63S-i7«9- 

X The Duke of Orleans (x674'-i793) was R^ent during the minority 

of Loais XV., from 17x6 until 1723 — ^Ta. 

I The original has iri^udur, a word not found in any French diction- 
ary, from the Latin trifudiare, — Th. 



3i4 xzzrTATi'i^r xxvil 

b;r»*«i rjrArm.s3ufLd^ vcrKfrj, and ginrrocr ; the 
nrst ia ni:-*- loiked zrcn as a T''^?* y wifch need noc 
be dii^iised. as a sctiLil q^n'-ry, agregn'Tie to the 
Lo<t. pritii^-'iic t.3 the ^lest, ad-.oz^ceocs to sccice, 
and j-f'jryi^fzJj new rank w.th aH ocher amaiccrs 
who are kncTrn t^ La-.e anv kind of hchcy. 

A 4*neral spirit of ccn-.T'.ialir.- is to be fccnd among 
aZ diiics of 5«>::ety : ban:;nets Live increased in 
n:nnher, and every one, when treadng his friends, 
endeavours to c~er them some 5r>eci3l dish he has 
seen on the best tables of the =pper classes* 

On account of the pleasure i'->^ziLd in being together, 
pft^j'ple have ad.pted a better di-.-iiion of laboor ; they 
devote to business the hours from the be^^nning of 
the day till dark, and give themselves then up to the 
pleasures which accompany and follow banquets. 

Luncheons, or so-called tL'jiumrs d la fcurckitU^ 
are given, which have a particular character on ac- 
count of the dishes brought up, the gaiety which 
reigns, and the morning dress allowed on such 
occasions. 

Teas are given, a sort of very extraordinary meal, 
as it is offered to persons who, ha\'ing already well 
dined, feel neither hungry nor thirst>* ; its only object 
is amusement; its foundation, a liking for dainties 
and tit-bits. 

Political banquets have been created, which have 
constantly been given during the last thirty years, 
and every time when it has been thought necessary 
to bring some influence directly to bear on a great 
number of people. Such banquets require an abund- 



PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF COOKERY. 385 



ance of good cheer, to which not much a 

paid by the guests, whilst real enjoyment is almost 

wholly absent. 

At last the restaurants appeared ; — an entirely 
new institution, by no means studied sufHciently, and 
in which any one who has some money in his pocket 
can immediately, infallibly, and without any other 
trouble than that of wishing for it, obtain all the 
positive pleasures of which the organ of taste is 
susceptible. 




■*■«,. ^^i- 




MEDITATION XXVIII. 

OF PARISIAN RESTAURANTS AND THEIR 

KEEPERS. 



137. — ^A RESTAURANT-KEEPER js a man whosc 
business consists in olTering to the public a banquet 
always ready, and of which the viands are sold in 
portions at fixed prices, at the request of the con- 
Such an establishment is called a " restaurant," 
and he who manages it is in French a restauraUur. 
We give the name of carte to the list of the dishes, 
with their respective prices affixed, and of earU d 
payer to what we have to pay for what we have 

* '■ We hart chuEcd all thai," to une a Gallic idiom. The word 

ni>WQll<dlhF/n>/r./ra,Vf ^f f ilai/intmrHl. Wcalwasknow Tor 
the a./^iIfM, 1 barbarism which h» replaced the nld-fuhiDoed larlt 
ifaytr; ihe woid iarlt fiill lingeij on.— Tb. 



OF PARISIAN RESTAURANTS. 387 

Among those who crowd to restaurants, there are 
few who imagine that the first man who opened such 
an establishment must have been a man of genius and 
a profound observer. 

We will assist laziness, and endeavour to find out 
what led to the opening of the first of such establish- 
ments, now so common and so convenient. 

The Restaurant 

138. — Towards the year 1770, after the glorious 
days of Louis XIV., the orgies of the Regency, and 
the long tranquillity under the ministry of Cardinal 
Fleury,* strangers in Paris found but few resources 
with regard to good cheer. 

They were compelled to have recourse to the cookery 
of the traiteursy or eating-houses, which was generally 
bad. Several hotels existed where tables d^hSte were 
held ; but with very few exceptions they only gave 
what was absolutely necessary for keeping body and 
soul together, and served up their meals at a cer- 
tain hour. 

People could indeed go to traiteurs ; but they did 
not sell portions, and any one wishing to entertain 
a few friends was obliged to order his dinner before- 
hand ; so that those persons who had not the good 
fortune of being invited to any rich man's house, left 
the great city without having acquired a knowledge 
of the resources and the pleasures of the Parisian 
culinary art. 

An order of things which injured every day such 

• 1653-1743- 



388 MEDITATION XXVIII. 

interests could not continue, and already some thinkers 
dreamt of an improvement 

At last a man of thought was found who judged 
that so active a cause could not remain without 
effect ; that the same want being reproduced every 
day, about the same time, consumers would flock in 
crowds to any place where they were certain that 
this want would be agreeably satisfied ; that if the 
wing of a fowl were cut off for the first comer, a 
second would be sure to present himself who would 
be satisfied with the leg ; that the taking of a first 
slice in the obscurity of the kitchen would not dis- 
grace the remainder of the joint ; that no man 
objects to a slight increase in the charges, when a 
good dinner has been promptly and cleanly served ; 
that amongst so many necessary details it would be 
endless if the guests were to discuss the price or 
the quality of the dishes ordered; and, besides, that 
the variety of dishes, combined with the fixity of 
prices, has the advantage of suiting all purses. 

That man thought of many other things, easy to 
divine. He was the first restaurant-keeper, and 
created a profession that is sure of bringing a fortune 
to any man whenever he will practise it honestly, 
orderly, and skilfully. 

Advantages of Restaurants, 

139. — The use of restaurants, which from France 
has made the tour of Europe, is of great advantage 
to all men, and of great importance to science. 



OF PARISIAN RESTAURANTS. 389 

i"*. Any man may dine there at any hour he likes, 
according to the demands of business or pleasure. 

2**. He is certain not to exceed the sum which 
he has to spend on his meal, for he knows before- 
hand the price of each dish served up. 

3°. According to the length of his purse, he 
can, if so inclined, make a substantial, refined, or 
dainty meal, wash it down with the best French or 
foreign wines, aromatise it with Mocha, or perfume 
with the liqueurs of the Old and New World,* 
without any other restriction than the vigour of 
his appetite, or the capacity of his stomach. The 
dining-room of a restaurant in Paris is the paradise 
of gourmands. 

4°. A restaurant is also very convenient for 
travellers, strangers, and for those men whose family 
resides for some time in the country, as well as 
for all those, in one word, who can have no cookery 
done at home, or who for the moment have to do 
without it. 

Before the year 1770, the time of which we have 
spoken, wealthy and influential men enjoyed almost 
exclusively two great advantages : they travelled with 
rapidity, and always feasted on good cheer. 

The establishment of new carriages, which travel 
fifty leagues in twenty-four hours, f has done away with 

* The liqueurs of the New World, of which the French are very fond 
even now, are Jamaica Rum ; Uqutur dts lUx^ or liqueur de la Mar- 
tinique, sometimes called after its manufacturer, liqueur de Made 
Amphoux^ and Curacoa, which is distilled at Amsterdam. — Tk. 

t This was published in 1896 ; such a speed would not be considered 
excessive in our days.— Tr. 



392 MEDITATIOX XXVIIL 

The exactness of this picture can be "i*erined any 
day, and if it stimulates our cunosit>% it may perhaps 
cast a cloud upon our moral feelings. 

Inconv€ni€nc£ of Restaurants. 

141. — There is no doubt that the occasion and 
the attraction of the different objects to be found in 
a restaurant may lead many persons into spending a 
larger sum than they intended. Perhaps they have 
given indigestions to a few delicate stomachs, and 
been the cause of some unseasonable sacrifices on the 
altar of " Venus cloaca." 

What is much more ominous for society* is, that it 
is almost certain that eating alone engenders egotism, 
accustoms a person only to care for himself, isolates 
him from ever>'thing around him, and teaches him 
not to show any polite attentions. By such conduct 
before, during, and after the meal, it is easy to dis- 
tinguish, in ordinary societ>', among the guests those 
who dine habitually at a restaurant* 

Competition. 

142. — We have already stated that the establish- 
ment of restaurants was of great importance for the 
foundation of gastronomic science. 

In fact, as soon as experience showed that a single 
dish, well cooked, was sufficient to make the fortune 
of the inventor, self-interest, acting as a powerfiil 

• \jti one example suffice : when a dish with a fowl, or anything cut 
up, is sent round, the men help themselves first, and then place the dish 
before them, without passing it to their neij;hbour, for whom they are 
not accustomed to care. 



OF PARISIAN RESTAURANTS. 393 

motive, kindled every imagination, and set all the 
cooks to work. 

Analysis has discovered the esculent parts in 
substances, which up to the present time were re- 
puted useless ; new foods have been found ; the 
old ones have been improved on ; and both have 
been combined in a thousand different manners. 
Foreign inventions have been imported ; the entire 
universe has been laid under contribution, and it 
may be truly said that during some of our meals a 
complete course of food-geography might be held. 

Restaurants at Fixed Prices, 

143. — Whilst gastronomy thus moved upwards, 
as well in discoveries as in expense — for new things 
have always to be paid for — the same motive, that 
is to say, the hope of gaining money, made it take 
an opposite direction, at least as regards expenses. 

Some restaurant-keepers thought that by giving 
good meals at a moderate price they would attract 
men of moderate means, who are, of course, most 
numerous, and thus get a great many customers. 

They endeavoured to find provisions of not too 
high a price, and which might be made agreeable 
by being well cooked. 

In butcher's meat, which is always good in Paris, 
and in sea-fish, to be found there in abundance,* 

* Sea-fish is not even now abundant in Paris, and cannot have been 
so in 1825, before railways were used ! In justice to our author, how- 
ever, let tis state that the Almanack des gourmands ^gt 1825 also speaks 
of the abundance of sea-fish in the French capital. — Tr. 

3D 



394 MEDITATION XXVIII. 

they had an unfailing resource, supplemented by 
vegetables and fruits, which now gardeners always 
sell cheap. 

They calculated what was strictly necessary to fill 
a stomach of ordinary capacity, and to quench any 
thirst, other than a dog's. 

They observed that many foods are only ex- 
pensive when quite new, or when first in season ; 
and that they could be offered a little later at a 
much cheaper rate ; finally, they came gradually to 
such precision that, whilst gaining 25 or 30 per 
cent., they were dble to give to their customers for 
two francs, or even less, a pretty good dinner, and 
with which any decent man ought to be satisfied ; 
for it would cost at least a thousand francs a month 
to have in a private house a table as well provided 
for and with as much variety.* 

Restaurant-keepers, considered from this last point 
of view, have rendered an important ser\'ice to that 
interesting part of the population of every, large town, 
composed of strangers, military men, and clerks ; and 
they have been led by their interest to solve a pro- 
blem which seemed difficult, namely, to give people 
good cheer at a moderate price, and even very cheap. 
Restaurant-keepers who have followed this system 
have not been less liberally rewarded than their 
brethren who catered for the upper classes. They 

* A pretty good dinner is now not to be got for two francs in PariSi 
and a very ordinary dinner a Prix ftxe costs at least five francs. 
There are still aruund the Palais-roj'al restaurants which pretend to 
give a dinner for two francs and a half, but I should not advise any- 
body to try them. See also note, p. 40S. — Tr. 



OF PARISIAN RESTAURANTS. 395 

have not suffered so many reverses as those who 
were on the top of the culinary ladder, and their 
fortune, although not made so quickly, was more 
certain ; for if they made less money at once, they 
made it every day ; and it is a mathematical truth 
that when an equal number of units has been col- 
lected in one point an equal total will be given, 
whether they are united by tens, or whether they are 
collected one by one. 

Gastronomers have retained the names of many 
artists who shone in Paris since the adoption of 
restaurants, and amongst them we can name Beau- 
villiers, Mdot, Robert, Rose, Legacque, the brothers 
Vdry, Henneveu, and Baleine. 

Some of the establishments owed their prosperity 
to special causes, as the V^au gut tette to sheep's 
trotters, the ... to boiled tripe,* the Frires Pr<h 
venqaux.^ to cod, stewed with a slight favour of garlic, 
V^ry to truffled entries^ Robert to dinners ordered, 
Baleine to the care he always took to have good 
fish, and Henneveu to the mysterious boudoirs on 
his fourth story. 

But of all the heroes of gastronomy, no one has a 
greater right to a biographical notice than Beauvilliers, 
who died about the year i82o.t 

*"How say you to a fat tripe, finely broiled ? "'-Shakespeare's 
** Taming of the Shrew,"* act iv. scene 3. — ^Tr. 

t Not one of the celebrated restaurants mentioned by our author 
exists at the present moment, except the Frires Provtn^aux^ but 
much shorn from its former greatness. The bmndade d* moruff still 
very good there, has too decided a taste of garlic to please English 
gastronomers. — Tr. 



396 MEDITATIOX XXVI I L 

144. — Beau\-iIIiers, established since 1782, has 
been for more than fiteen vears the most £imous 
restauratnir of Paris.* 

To begin i»-iih : his rooms are elejant and his 
waiters are well-dressed ; he has a good cellar and 
a first-rate cuishu^ and when a few amongst those 
we have named attempted to vie with him, he fought 
the good fight without any disad\-antage, for he had 
but a few steps to take to follow the progress of 
gastronomic science. 

During the successive occupations of Paris in 18 14 
and 1 81 5, carriages of all kinds and of ever>' nation 
were constantly to be seen before his establishment ; 
he knew all the principal officers of the different 
foreign troops of the army of occupation, and i^'as 
at last able to address them in their o^^-n tongue, 
at least as much as was necessary for business 
transactions. 

Heauvilliers published, towards the end of his life, 
a work in two octavo volumes, entitled VArt du 
Cuisinier, the fruit of his long experience, which 
bears the stamp of a practical mind, and is still as 
much esteemed as on its first appearance. Until 
his book saw the light, gastronomic art had never 
been treated with such care and method ; several 

• Heauvilliers had been f/i</"of the Count of Provence, afterwards 
Louin XVIII. At the date of the publication of the Fhysiologie du 
Goftt (1^26), his sons were e&tabli.>hed at No. it Rue de Richelieu, and, 
I suppose, in compliment to their English customers, called their restau- 
rant A la Grandt Taverne dt Londres. — Tk. 



OF PARISIAN RESTAURANTS. 397 

editions have smoothed the way for works coming 
after it, but none of them is an improvement upon it. 

Beauvilliers had a prodigious memory ; he recog- 
nised and welcomed men who had only dined at his 
house once or twice, after not having seen them for 
twenty years. In certain cases his method was also 
peculiar to himself. 

When he knew that a company of wealthy men 
dined in his rooms, he came up to them in a most 
polite manner, paid his respects to them, and ap- 
peared to devote quite special attention to his guests. 

He pointed out a dish which might be passed over, 
another that should be taken without delay, ordered 
a third of which no one had thought, sent for wine 
from a cellar of which he alone kept the key, and 
all this in so pleasant and courteous a manner, that 
such orders seemed so many personal favours on 
his part. But Beauvilliers' appearance as host only 
lasted a moment ; then he withdrew, and soon after 
the bloated bill and the bitterness of the mauvais 
quart tVheure de Rabelais * were sufficient proof that 
people had been dining at his establishment. 

Beauvilliers made, unmade, and remade his fortune 
many times. We do not know what was his pecuniary 
condition when death overtook him, but he had so 

* Rabelais (1495-1553) was one day at a country inn, and had not 
sufficient money to pay his bill. He made up three small packets of 
brick dust, on which he wrote "poison for the king," "poison for the 
king's brother," "poison for the king's son." His landlord informed 
against him, and he was removed to Paris, where he confessed that 
not being able to settle his score, he had adopted this way of being 
brought free of cost to the capital ; hence the proverbial expression. 
— Tr. 



39^ MFDrTATIOX XXVI 11. 

many wnvs of snendin^ monev that we do not think 
his heirs were much enrirhed jy what he left. 

The Ga^tmnnmfr at tJu ReUauranL 

145.- On evaminin'T^ the jmirts of various restau- 
ranN of the tlr^t c'a^s, and e^nerially those of the 
brothers V'-ry and the Fr>rc% Proveu'\iux\ it will 'jc 
seen that any one who j;oes to a ;^ood dining-room 
has at his disposal as element:> of his dinner at leait 

X2 so'ip^. 12 of pastry, 

24 sifU'-dishf^s. 24 «)f fish. 

15 *o 20 ffttr^y^ of ^)**ef. 15 ro.xsts. 

20 frtfrt^i of mutton. 50 tntremHs, 

ip ^ntr*>y of poultry and jjamc 50 desi^rti. 
1 5 or 20 of veal. 

Moreover, the gastronomer may wash down all 
these dishes with at least thirty kinds of wine, from 
Biir^^undy to Tokay or Constantia,* and twenty or 
thirty diflferent sorts of liqueurs, without counting 
coffee, and surh mixtures as punch, neijus, syllabub, f 
and so forth. 

Amon;^st the various parts that constitute the 
dinner of a connoisseur, the princip.al inc^edients 
come from France, such as butchers' meat, poultry, 
rmd fruits ; others are in imitation of English 
ones, such as beefsteak, welsh-rabbit, punch, &c. ; 

• Wh«*n tmt mithor wrote, the only Cape wine known in France was 
th" rxrrllpnt, thousjh rather sweet and luscious, " Con>tantia ; " the 
original ha>, howrvcr, \'in fin Ctt^, which must not be mistaken for the 
ordinary "(^ap'* sherry." — 'i"R. 

t I his Fpitli^h word has been adopted by Brillat-Savarin ; it ia not 
even in Littr<^'s Dictionary.— Tr. 



RESTAURANTS. 399 

Others come from Germany, as " sauerkraut," Ham- 
burg beef, fillets from the Black Forest ; others from 
Spain, as the olla podrida, garbanzos, Malaga raisins, 
peppered haras from Xerica, and liqueur-wines ; 
others from Italy, as macaroni, Parmesan cheese, 
Bologna sausages, polenta, ices, liqueurs ; some from 
Russia, as dried meats, smoked eels, caviare ; some 
from Holland, as cod, cheese, pickled herrings, 
Curasao, and anisette ; some from Asia, as Indian 
rice, sago, curry, soy, Shiraz wine, and coffee ; some 
from Africa, as Constantia ; some from America, as 
sweet potatoes, pine apples, chocolate, vanilla, sugar, 
and so forth, which furnishes sufficient proof of the 
truth of what we have stated in another part of this 
book, namely, that a dinner, such as can be had in 
Paris, is thoroughly cosmopolitan, to which every 
quarter of the globe furnishes some of its products. 




CLASSICAL GOURMANDISE. 40I 

some progress, and after having read Horace, became 
converted, took a great pleasure in meditating on 
ideas clothed in such elegant words, and did his 
utmost well to understand the language in which 
that intelligent poet had written. 

He also learnt music, and, after many trials with 
other instruments, only played the piano. He did 
not throw himself into the endless difficulties of that 
musical instrument,"* but he used it as it ought to be 
used, and was satisfied when he knew enough to 
accompany a song. 

As he did not push himself forward, nor move his 
arms about, nor turn up his eyes,t he was even pre- 
ferred to professional musicians, the more so as he 
tried conscientiously to sustain the voice of the lady 
who sang, so that she could show her talent to advan- 
tage, which every accompanist ought to do. 

Protected by his age, he traversed without accident 
the most terrible times of the Revolution ; but he was 
called upon to serve in the army, and paid for a man 
who went bravely in his place to be killed for him. 
Provided with the legal proof of the death of his 

* The piano should facilitate the composition of music, and serve as 
an accompaniment to the voice. Piayrd alone it has neither warmth 
nor expression. The Spaniards call bordonear the humming sound pro- 
duced by stringed instruments. 

t French musical technical slang : /air* Us bras^ is to raise the elbow 
and the upper part of the arm, as if one's feeling> overcame ont; /aire 
les yeux, is to turn the eyes towards Heaven, as if one was going to 
fsi^nt; /aire des brioches, is to miss a single stroke or an intonation. — 
Brillat Savakin. — A briiyche^ is a cake, and the tcrm/aire une bn'ochr, 
according to Lorddan Larchcy's Dictionnaire ds I Argct parisieUf is now 
applied to any blunder, and owes its origin to the cakes bought in former 
times by the musicians of the opera, with the fines levied on their com- 
rades who played out of tune. — Tr. 

3 E 



402 MEDITATION XXIX. 

alUr e^o* he found himself in a good position to 
celebrate our triumphs, and to bewail our reverses. 

M. de Borose was of middling heijht, but was per- 
fectlv well made. As for his face, it indicated his 
fondness for good living ; and we shall give an idea 
of it, by saying that if he had been in the same room 
with Gavaudan of the Ttuatre dcs Varieies^ Michot of 
the Thc'atre Fram^ais^ and the song-writer Desaugiers, 
ever)' one would have thought they were members of 
one and the same family.! On the whole, it was 
generally admitted he was a fine-looking fellow, 
and sometimes he had some reasons to think himself 
so. 

To select a profession was for him an affair of im- 
portance. He tried many ; but he found them always 
more or less inconvenient, and thus remained without 
doing anything for a long time ; in other words, he 
was admitted into several literar)- societies, became a 
member on the Committee of his parish, subscribed 
to various phflanthropical societies ; and looked after 
his own money-matters, which he managed admirably, 
so that he had as much to do as any other man, and 
had his correspondence and nis study. 

' • The original ha^ •* Sosie," the slave of Amphitrj'on, in Molicre*splay 
of that n line, in which Mercury assumes the form of Sosia, an i Jupiter 
that of Ampihitryon ; and the mistakes and coni'usion which consc- 
queiilly ari^c, resemble thoxc of the brothers Anthipolus and their scr- 
vantN tnc brothers iJromio in Shak^peare'b "Comedy of Errors." — Tr. 
\ Jean Ilaptiste Sauveur Ga\audan (1772-1840) wai a well-known 
Parisian actor and <»in;j<T, and Anioine Michot ( 1759-1 8 ^u). in his lime 
an actor of some repute. Marie Antoine Madeleine I)t5>aufiiers (1772- 
18^7), one of the best known song-writers and dramatic authors of 
France, was also for many years manager of the Paris Vaudeville 
Theatre — Tk. 



CLASSICAL GOURMANDISE. 403 

When he was twenty-eight years old, he thought 
that it was time to get married ; he only wished 
to see his intended at dinner, and after he had met 
her three times he was perfectly convinced that she 
was as intelligent as she was good and pretty. 

The conjugal happiness of M. de Borose lasted 
but a short time ; scarcely eighteen months after his 
marriage his wife died in childbed, leaving him to 
bewail for ever so short a happiness, and as a 
consolation a daughter, whom he named Herminie, 
and of whom we shall speak later on. 

M. de Borose amused himself pretty well with 
various occupations he had undertaken. Neverthe- 
less, he at last began to perceive that even the 
most select company was not without its pretensions,, 
patronising airs, and sometimes a little jealousy. He 
knew that there exists no human being without 
faults, that no one is perfect ; but went, nevertheless, 
a good deal in society, unconsciously followed the 
dictates of Fate, impressed on his countenance, and 
gradually found in gastronomy his principal enjoy- 
ment. 

M. de Borose used to say that gastronomy is 
nothing but reflection and appreciation combined, 
applied to a branch of science which ameliorates 
human beings. 

He said, with Epicurus,* " Is man then made to 
despise the gifts of Nature ? Does he only come 
into the world to gather bitter fruits? For whom 
are these flowers which the gods cause to grow at 

• Alibert (1766-1837) Physiolegie dta Pasaont^ voL i. 



«.^ 






-»«;^.-r 



"•v '"!< 






■ . A*> 



' .#11 ,^ » •• , » «.•*». X.^*-.w*- .. . ,1Ll - ^^ 

^ ' '•'• ■- • t ,,*»'•. »v-. j^; -r: •"t I ^n.;^ "line "ne 



''••''■' ' '- <»•''' : -, ' ^'^ *''-'^ ^.ttemeis if :2r:ain 



-/ ^.,» ,. ,. /- »-.«r^ ». ^r- I ,-. -.r-ni..V X. :it ■ "Via txt 



CLASSICAL GOURMANDISE. 405 

meats, to render others more savoury, and to employ 
the best ingredients. A cook in Europe is pre- 
eminent in the art of arranging these marvellous 
combinations." 

The allocution had its effect, and the chef* pene- 
trated with his importance, was never behind the 
dignity of his office. 

A little time, experience, and reflection, soon taught 
M. de Borose that the number of dishes being almost 
determined by custom, a good dinner is not much 
dearer than a bad one ; that it does not cost 500 
francs a year more to drink always very good wine ; 
and that everything depends on the will of the master, 
the order he keeps in his household, and the energy 
he imparts to all his servants. 

Starting from those fundamental principles, the 
dinners of M. de Borose assumed a classical and 
solemn character; their reputation for refinement 
spread abroad ; people were proud of having been 
invited by him, and many praised his dinners who 
had never been at his house. 

He never invited those so-called gastronomers who 
are mere gluttons, whose belly is an abyss, and who 
eat everywhere, of anything, and everything. He 
found among his friends as many pleasant guests as 
he liked ; they ate their dinner with a really philo- 
sophical attention, devoted to it all the time it requires, 

* In a well-appointed house, the cook is called chef. He has under 
him an assistant, for the entries^ a pastry-cook, a roast-cook, and 
scullions, — the pantry is a separate institution. The scullions are in 
the kitchen what the boys are on board ship; bke them, they are often 
beaten, and also» like them, sometimes make their way. 



/• V 



' ^ 



i 



• / r • • ' 



// ' 



CLASSICAL GOURMANDISE. 407 

Twice a week he invited ladies, taking care so to 
arrange matters that each of them should find among 
the guests a gentleman who would be exclusively 
attentive to her. This precaution made his society 
ver>' agreeable, for even the most severe prude is 
humiliated when no notice is taken of her. 

On those days alone, a quiet game of ^carti was 
allowed ; on other days, only piquet and whist were 
tolerated, for they are grave and thoughtful games, 
and denote in their players a careful education. But 
generally a pleasant conversation filled up the whole 
evening, interrupted now and then by a few songs, 
which M. de Borose accompanied on the piano with a 
talent we have already mentioned, and for which he 
received an ovation which he did not at all dislike. 

On the first Monday of every month, the parish- 
priest came to dine with his parishioner, and was 
certain to be received with esteem and respect. On 
that day the conversation took a more serious tone, , 
but it did not exclude harmless pleasantry. The 
venerable pastor never refused to come to those 
delightful meetings, and it is said that he sometimes 
wished that every month had four first Mondays. 

On the same day young Miss Herminie de Borose 
left the boarding-school of Madame Migneron,* who 
usually accompanied her pupil. At each visit the 
young girl displayed some fresh charm ; she adored 

* Our author bestows in a note great praise on the scholasticestablish- 
ment for young ladies of Madame Mi ^neron-Rdmyf Rue de Valois, 
faubourg du Roule, No. 4t which was ** under the patronage of the 
Duchess of Orleans ; " but the lady has probably been for a long time 
gathered to her fathers, and the school does not exist any more.— Tr. 



1 



OF GOURMANDS. 22$ 

appreciate a short-hand account of all that was said 
at the Council, when they deliberated on the tests. 
These deliberations will remain for ever secret and 
veiled ; but there is, at least, one circumstance I am 
allowed to reveal 

Some member* suggested negative tests, or tests 
by privation. 

Thus, for example, let us suppose an accident, 
real or feigned, completely spoiling a dish of high 
flavour, or a hamper with game that has been sent by 
the carrier and has not come to hand. On the receipt 
of such disastrous news, we might observe and note 
the different degrees of sadness gradually stealing 
over the countenances of our guests, and thus we 
might acquire a good criterion of their gastronomic 
sensibility. 

But this proposal, although seductive at the first 
glance, could not stand a thorough examination. 
The president observed, and observed riglitly, that 
similar events, which might only superficially affect 
the incomplete organs of people who do not care for 
good living, might exercise a fatal influence on true 
believers, and perhaps might give them a mortal 
fright. And thus, though the member still persisted 
in his proposal, it was unanimously rejected. 

We proceed now to give a list of the dishes we 

* M. Felix Sibaet, who, by hU classical physiognomy* the delicacy 
of his taste, and his administrative talents, possesses all that is required 
to become a perfect financier.— Brillat-Savarin. 

This gentleman, who has such peculiar requirements for a financier, 
was also a native of the department where our author was bom, and had 
two brothers, of whom one was in his time a well-known Joumalisti the 
other a bazon, and general of the first £mpire.->-TR. 

2 F 



• #. •' 



/ ' 



•- • . 



' / 



" 'y" 



". '.v 









^ - ,— ■ .^ • 



OF GOURMANDS. 227 

Early green peas. 

Remarks, — "Ah, my dear friend, what a delight- 
ful sight. This is truly a wedding feast" * ' 

THIRD SERIES. 

For a Presumed Income of ^0,000 Francs or more, {Riches, ) 

A fowl of about seven pounds, stuffed with trufHes 
till it becomes almost round. 

An enormous Strasburg pdiJ de fou-grasy in the 
shape of a bastion. 

A large Rhine carp i la Chambordy richly dressed 
and decorated. 

TrufRed quails with marrow, spread on buttered 
toast au basilic. 

A river pike, larded, stuffed, and smothered in a 
cream of crayfish, secundum artem, 

A pheasant done to perfection, with his tail-feathers 
stuck in, lying on toast d la Sainte- Alliance, 

A hundred early asparagus, each half-an-inch thick, 
with sauce d Vosmazdme, 

Two dozen ortolans d la praven^aUy as described 
in some of the cookery-books already mentioned. 

A pyramid of vanilla and rose meringues. This dish 
has only some effect on ladies and on men with abbas' 
calves, &c. 

Remarks, — " Ah ! sir (or, my lord), what a genius 
that cook of yours is I It is only at your table that 
we meet such dishes." 

* The original has the old French expression, nonces et /estitu, 
already used by Rabelais, and our author states that in order to pro- 
nounce the first word correctly the/ should be sounded.— Tiu 



^'-v « ^ 



•%^ * « 






1 •*. "* ^ 



«..«. 



OF COURUANDS. 339 

This appearance produced on the company a 
marked effect difficult to describe, but somewhat bke 
the "silent laugh" depicted in some of Cooper's 
novels, and 1 perceived that I should have something 
to observe. In fact, all conversation ceased through 
the fulness of their hearts. Every one was paying 
attention to the skilful operations of the carvers, and 
as soon as everybody had been served, I saw beam 
on the countenances of each, and in succession, the 
fire of desire, an ecstasy of enjoyment, and the repose 
of perfect bliss. 




THE PLEASURES OF THE TABLE. 23 1 

This decree of destiny has been aggravated in its 
fulfilment by a host of maladies, which are produced 
by the habits of social life ; so that the most keen and 
the best regulated pleasure than can be imagined 
cannot either in intensity or duration make up for 
the atrocious pains that accompany certain disorders, 
such as gout, toothache, acute rheumatism, strangury, 
or that caused by the severe punishments amongst 
certain peoples. 

This practical dread of pain has forced man, 
without being aware of it, to throw himself impul- 
sively in an opposite direction, and to attach himself 
ingenuously to the small number of pleasures allotted 
to him by Nature. 

For this same reason he has increased, extended, 
fashioned, and finally worshipped them ; for, in the 
idolatrous ages, for many centuries, all the pleasures 
were secondary deities, presided over by superior 
gods. 

The severity of modem religions has destroyed all 
those patrons : Bacchus, Love, Comus, Diana, no 
longer exist except in poetical tradition ; but the 
thing still exists, and, under the most serious of all 
forms of belief, men feast occasionally at a marriage, 
a baptism, and even a funeral. 

Origin of the Pleasures of the Table, 

71. — Meals, in the sense that we give to this 
word, commenced in the second era of the human 
race, that is to say, when it ceased to live on fhiits. 
The preparation and the distribution of foods ren- 



u 




MEDITATION XXX. 

BOUQUET. 



GcutroHomical Mythology. 

148, — Gasterea is the tenth muse. She presides 
over the enjoyments of taste. 

She might lay claim to the empire of the universe, 
for the universe is nothing without life, and all that 
has life requires nourishment. 

She delights specialty to dwell on those banks where 
the vine flourishes, or on those which the orange tree 
perfumes, in the thickets where the truffle is developed, 
and in the countries which abound in game and fruit. 

When she deigns to show herself, she appears under 
the form of a young girl ; her belt is the colour of fire 



BOUQUET. 419 

The temple, a unique monument of simple and 
majestic architecture, is supported by four hundred 
columns of oriental jasper, and lighted by a dome 
imitating the celestial vault. 

We will not enter into the details of the marvels 
contained in this edifice ; let it suffice to state that 
the sculptures ornamenting the pediment, as well as 
the bas-reliefs that decorate the enclosure, are con- 
secrated to the memory of men who have deserved 
well of their country by useful inventions, such as 
the application of fire to the wants of life, the inven- 
tion of the plough, and so forth. 

Far from the dome, and within the sanctuary, the 
statue of the goddess can be seen ; she has her left 
hand leaning on an oven, and holds in her right hand 
the productions most beloved by those who worship 
her. 

She stands underneath a crystal canopy, supported 
by eight columns of the same material ; and these 
columns, continually inundated by electric light,* pro- 
duce in this sacred spot a brightness almost divine. 

The worship of this goddess is simple : every day, 
at sunrise, her priests come to take away the crown 
of flowers which adorns her statue, placing on it a 
fresh one, and singing in chorus one of the numerous 
hymns by which poetry has celebrated the boons 
which this immortal being sheds upon the human race. 

These priests, to the number of twelve, presided 
over by the oldest, are chosen among the most 

* In the original flammt iUctriqut. " Oh, my prophetic loul, my 
uncle," as Shakespeare says. Electric light in z8a6.— Tr. 



i20 r-'rjrxrir.v :x:c- 

^^rr)fi-r\ ind -'..f* Ar.r:>i,rr,r--r. dl 'iimcs '.einq" tcuzi. 
.hfr^M^ \'.f ^r.'-VT.'-nrr^, ria:y iTC, -t TianirE ..re- -tnn 
■;fn ,*»r.-.r-tf>- .1,;, ,nr -.ev^r .t:rr.?r/.r, .ir *j.e .ur 'vr.Trn 

•Ii^ :;iv-. .f !.f '^nr. '.ir .lift "ever cojes 'O -.nower 
.ne r,#»r:H i.y ...r. /^'-^rt.r^'f: -o .er, .lameiv, 'he. 21st 

'\-^e >r^1-'»•^ »f i.e ^'rr..-:«^';s . r.e iiiia.i>;raiit3 -n-.! -nri 
-]-,» ^w»Ap.?p.<;r -^rr.r.rj^^.ns : 'lie timoir.nere s ^Jiien. vim 

A Vir* -jt -If*, lAi- s o^i^-if^l .n iurh ±!f.i£ioii5. and 
-ft 'b^ '.ir,i;r '"jr*';i:r.c>i i\- 'ii.^tnm "he z'nwiLa diick 
'r,M-<»-r^s 'li*^ *f>moie V ;*trr* "he ^axTTcd ':aiiauet niusc 

in *><» ■^'iX'r^ ,\'Ar\ \x '.\ft foor -it the itame, is 
Ar'^rf^/i ;i 'a ,:Pi jV.r *..e ^'^Kr^'-'e of :iie jre:2r5. An- 
'*,♦* or • I'i^^ '/f vr-^;- c h::r,r:r^'i "w^ er5 is il^o n reatii- 
^#*^-s in^'V." *;-o. ^r,r^^ fi.r 'he j^ie^-^^s. of ':crii sexes. 
A.l "c*^ ^'' ^ -'« '^ r>'.^'x\\r,oA v> a.ii;ni ihese fescve 
"» ;!o^. yv- -, j; v-> '^^ ';.;ant ha.s e%er been seen in 

1 f^ p;''>^'> rr.a--^ */y:r a^.^.'tarar.ce with a grave 
/in''] s'T/'Ns rf-iTi. 'fh^y ;irc clad in a white tunic 

' / '.* '/•■^i' T r.j»^ /'/I'/-?/, fr'>m an Ar*i w.^ri, mrar.ir.g '* Co pray." — T«- 



BOUQUET. 421 

of cashmere wool, with flesh-coloured embroidery 
around its edges, whilst a belt of the same colour 
retains its folds. Their countenance denotes health 
and benevolence ; they sit down after having bowed 
to each other. 

Then servants, dressed in fine linen, place food 
before them, but not the ordinary dishes prepared to 
appease the wants of the vulgar ; naught is served up 
at this august table which is not thought worthy of 
it, and which is not transcendentally exquisite, as 
well by the choice of materials as by the labour 
bestowed upon it 

The venerable guests are more than able to fulfil 
their functions ; their peaceful and substantial con- 
versation is all about the marvels of creation and 
the power of gastronomic art ; they eat slowly and 
taste attentively ; the motion of their jaws has a 
somewhat velvety sound : it may be said that every 
bite has its own particular intonation ; and if they 
happen to moisten with their tongue their shiny Ups, 
the cook who has prepared the dish they have tasted 
acquires an inmiortal glory. 

The beverages which follow one another at inter- 
vals are worthy of the banquet ; they are poured out 
by twelve youthful maidens, chosen, for this day only, 
by a committee of painters and sculptors. They are 
clad in Greek tunics, a costume which happily en- 
hances beauty without alarming modesty. 

The priests of the goddess do not pretend to turn 
away their heads in a hypocritical manner, while pretty 
hands pour out for them the delicacies of the Old and 



— ." ^ * -« "n* 



. .: "» 'J. 



BOUQUET. 423 

There is placed advantageously everything that 
Nature in her prodigality has created to serve as food 
for man. There treasures are multiplied a hundred- 
fold, not merely by their association, but also by the 
changes art has made them undergo. This enchanter 
has united the Old and the New World, confounded 
all kingdoms and shortened distances : the odour 
which arises from those scientific dishes perfumes 
the air, and fills it with exciting gases. 

However, some young, handsome, and well-dressed 
boys, walk round the external circle, and present 
incessantly cups filled with delicious wine, which 
sometimes glitters like a ruby, sometimes has the more 
modest colour of the topaz. 

From time to time skilled musicians, placed in the 
galleries of the dome, make the temple re-echo with 
the melodious accents of a harmony as simple as well 
composed. 

Then all heads are raised, and everybody becomes 
attentive, and during these short intervals alf conver- 
sations are suspended ; but they recommence soon 
with greater pleasure ; for it appears as if this new 
present of the gods has given to the imagination more 
freshness, and to all hearts more confidence. 

When the pleasures of the table have filled up the 
time assigned to them, the college of priests advances 
to the edge of the enclosure ; they come to take part 
in the banquet, to mix with the guests, and to drink 
with them the Mocha which the legislator of the East 
permits to his disciples. The aromatic beverage 
smokes in vases chased with gold, and the fair female 



4^4 'tHZn/riATll'S XXX. 

arohtes of the sanzmarv rrax-erse the assemblr to 
distribute the surar. vtuch 2h2f»es zwzy lu^ birtemess. 
The}- j:>:»k chjnnmi: : TK—enrit Jess. suzi. is the innn- 
eikre of the sir brei^ined in trie tcrrt je of GasteresL, 
that ao hiiLn of zltt votnLj: presto: is arressible lo 
j»eiLiDU?>-. 

FiulIv, the eldf-^st of the priests e:ii::«ae5 ah^Tiin of 
gratitude. AH the voires y*:zi ir it. and the instm- 
metLts T'lsv in cuisoti. This hoir»:.re of all hearts 
rises tov-ards Keaven, and the service is over. 

Tben on]y commenres the p:»pi:lar banc^uet, far those 
are not trje feasts wtjch the pe:»pje do no: cnioy. 

Tabjes, of wblzh the e}e cr-r. r>ot percei\Te the end, 
are erected in aZ streets, in all squares, and before 
all palaces. People sit where they like; acddent 
draii'S near all rants, aces, and parishes ; hands 
are outstretched and grasped with cordialin* ; only 
happy faces are \-isible. 

A!:hou;;h the great czzy is then only an immense 
cining-liali, the generosity- of some in d;\-i duals assm^s 
abundance, "whilst a paternal government u-atches with 
solicitude o\er the maintenance of order, so that the 
last limits of sobriety should not be overstepped- 

iyfym a lively and animated music is heard. It 
announces the beginning of dancing, that exercise 
which young people like so much. 

Immense rooms, moveable platforms, ha\-e been 
prepared, and refreshments of ever)- sort are not 
lacking. 

Large crowds hasten thither, some to dance ; others 
to encourage dancing as mere spectators. It is fimny 



BOUQUET. 495 

to see some old people, animated with a transient 
fire, offer up to beauty an ephemeral homage ; but the 
worship of the goddess and the solemnity of the day 
excuse everything. 

The feast is kept up for a long while : happiness 
is general, and everybody is in motion ; it is painful 
to hear the last hour strike, which announces that it 
is time to go and rest Nevertheless, no one is deaf 
to this appeal ; everything has gone off with decency ; 
every one leaves satisfied with his day, and goes to 
sleep full of hope in the events of another year that 
has commenced under such happy auspices. 




t?:ans:t:jn. 



/'J A ifrr^ /*i' ^iCi£ n*: znu: fz'' "Lzzt. ihz: ::r:mzirx I 

iCi'K I'.z: zr. 'zz'T^^r.r 2 t^d c d. *.'ls :■: i:7 zz 'rzrzr, I 
r^,^ l.:t :.sK: .'\. :'f.£ t'^:^ z: :l: zr .-tt d'z.-y: zhi 
iitA'.'Ti-t.iz. : z:z: :/ 3z::*-rt-"n.^^:*: z'f.zz :k. zK^i^Idzjicr 

ir.:','r,!i::z: '1 c^t t: «..-''/ -'-r lizr^d. Z: Jl- f je/ ^-iih 



aK(i /> liT zrzZf /.-^ -— Z:*^/ Z'.zz ::-r.z. r'i.z.iZT frc 

ur. '^'Ttu '. zi'. . r cyr. -runZ'. £. 

7/1;.' c:'./u::.K z.^: 1-::^ :•£»:{ I h z'lZ/.'rrjKZ f^yr- 
aliiti, c. ki. i<:r.^' dc //xt cd h 2~ €zr:rzz ^^zrt z/^^\ z. ere 
Z€fin/(XC'.iii: i^i.tri tkrri "^ zs :-.ly ^ z^sll-rcrz^^zled 
tKjyyt'ur.t ; '. r :'r./ tr£ iiwi: :/ sr^z:::": ?..nc nit Itcn 
Cf.lltd into txiiZ'K'.e to C£ Zr.J uKZcr f, :i. This im- 
J/Tfiiion hit ^iin a/Zir-^ .zrd: ^r :-^ r. : iZfd ':y uKicsiabie 
/rammariin: 'uho -urrcZe d^irdZizr.s u:Z/t truir tyes 
ihutf and iZL'.re in verba ir.ao'.=t:;. 



TRANSITION. 427 

// is time such an error were given up^ for at 
present there is no longer any misunderstanding ; and 
this is so true that, though there is not a person who 
has not a slight spice of gourmandise in his composi- 
tion who does not pride himself in it^ there is not one 
who will not consider it a gross insult to be accused of 
gluttony, voracity, or intemperance. 

It appears to me that what I have written on these 
two cardinal points up to the present time is equivcdent 
to a demonstration, and ought to be sufficient to per' 
suade all those who are open to conviction, I might, 
therefore, lay my pen aside and regard the task I have 
imposed on myself as finished j but in fathoming sub' 
jects that touch on everything, many things have been 
reccUled to my memory which seemed to me too good to 
be lost, anecdotes which have never been published, 
witticisms that were said in my presence, some impoT' 
tant culinary receipts, and other similar side-dishes. 

If these had been put in the theoretical part of this 
work, they would have interrupted the harmony of the 
whole ; as a collection, I trust they will yield the 
reader some pleasure, because, in an amusing form, a 
few experimental truths and useful developments may 
be found therein. 

As I have already stated, I like to introduce some' 
thing of my own personal history, which gives rise 
neither to discussions nor to commentaries. I have 
looked for the reward of my labour in this part of my 
book, where I find myself in the company of my friends. 
It is above all when existence is ready to leave us that 
the ego becomes dear to us, and if one speaks of oneself, 
one must of course also mention on^s friends. 

Still, in reading over again its passages that are 



^ -■9' 



^ •# 






- - * 






TJ. 



VARIETIES. 




THE CURB'S* OMELETTE. 



EVEKVBODY knows (bat Madame R. . . .t has ocnpied 
Tor twenty jears Ihe throne of bcHUty in Piiit nnchallenged ; 
it U also well known tlut she is cxtiemely cbaiitable, and 
that, at a certain epoch, she took an interest in a majorilj 
of those schemes whose object was to succour misery, often 
Tell more leverely in the capital than anywhere else, t 

curt in Franc* ii tomcwhu lik* ■ vicar In Eagtud, vhihl tha 



PDal hu MiduD 



ur.H.-T^ 

R. . . . but 



ccialJy ue to be pitied <r 



43* VARIETIES. 

Wishing to consult M. le Cure on some charitable subject, 
she called upon him at about five o'clock in the afternoon, 
and was surprised to find him already at table. 

She who lived in the Rue du Mont-Blanc in Paris thought 
that everybody dined at six o'clock, not knowing that in 
general ecclesiastics commence early, because many of them 
take a light collation in the evening. 

Madame Recamier was about to retire ; but the cure b^ged 
her to stay, either because the business on which they were 
to talk was not of a nature to prevent him from dining, 
because a pretty woman is never in anybody's way; or, 
l)erhaps, because he saw that he only wanted a person to 
talk to to make of his room a real gastronomic Elysium. 

The table was very neatly laid indeed ; some old wine 
sparkled in a crystal decanter ; the white china was of the 
best quality ; under the plates were wells of boiling water ; 
and a servant of canonical age, and decently dressed, was 
waiting on him. 

The repast was a happy mean between frugality and luxury. 
Some crayfish soup had just been removed, and a salmon trout, 
an omelette, and a salad were placed on the table. 

** My dinner shows you what perhaps you did not know," 
said the priest, smiling ; " to-day we must not eat meat, 
according to the laws of the Church.'* The lady bowed 
her assent ; but, as I have been privately told, she slightly 
blushed, which did not prevent the cure from eating. 

He began his operations with the trout, of which the upper 
part delayed him not long ; the sauce bore proof of a skilful 
hand, and the pastor's features showed signs of inward 
satisfaction. 

After this first dish had been removed, he attacked the ome- 
lette, which was round, full-bellied, and cooked to a nicety. 

At the first stroke of the spoon, there ran out a thick juice, 
that tickled at the same time sight and smell ; the dish ap- 
peared full of it, and my dear cousin confessed that it made 
her mouth water. 



VilRIETI£& 433 

This sign of sympathy did not escape the car^, accustomed 
to watch the passions of men ; and, as if in answer to a 
question which Madame Recamier did not ask, he said, 
"This is a tunny omelette ; my cook is an adept at making 
them, and few people ever taste them without complimenting 
me." — " I am not at all surprised," replied the lady ; "for so 
tempting an omelette never appears on the tables of the laity." 

A salad followed, and I recommend its use to all those 
who have confidence in me, for salad refreshes without 
weakening, and comforts without irritating. I usually say 
it makes one young again. 

The dinner did not interrupt their conversation. They 
talked of the matter in hand, the cause of my cousin calling 
on him ; of the war then raging ; of the events of the time ; 
the hopes of the Church ; and other topics which make a bad 
dinner pass, and enliven a good one. 

In its turn, dessert came. It consisted of some Semoncel 
cheese, three Calville apples, and a pot of jam. 

Then the servant placed near the cure a small round table, 
such as was formerly in use, and was called guSridon^ on 
which she put a cup of M^ha, quite clear and hot, and 
filling the room with its aroma. 

After having sipped it, the cur^ said grace, rose, and re- 
marked, " I never take spirits ; it is a superfluity I always 
offer to my guests, but which personally I do not use. I 
reserve them as a resource for extreme old age, should it 
please God to let me live so long." 

While this conversation was going on time did not stand 
still, and it struck six. Madame Recamier was in a hurry to 
get into her carriage, for she had that day some friends to 
dinner, of whom I was one. She arrived late, according to 
her usual custom ; but, however, she came, still excited by 
what she had seen and smelt. 

Throughout the whole dinner, our hostess spoke of nothing 
else but of the cure's meal, and, above all, of his tunny 
omelette. 

31 






.- 2 



» ^ r »•« .*..«- :.r:;. 



VARIETIES. 435 

what they are eating, and do not eat in a hurry ; let it be 
especially washed down with some first-rate old wine, and 
you will see something wonderfuL 

Theoretical notes on the preparation of this dish, 

I®. The roes and the tunny should be fried very lightly, 
and the butter should not be made to boil, otherwise they 
will become hard, and not mix well with the eggs. 

2^ The omelette dish ought to be hollow, so that the sauce 
may collect at the bottom, and be served with a spoon. 

3**. The omelette dish should be slightly heated, for if it is 
cold, the china will draw away all the caloric of the omelette, 
and there will not be heat enough to keep warm the sauce. 



XL 

EGGS IN GRAVY. 

One day I was travelling with two ladies to Melun. 

"We left very early in the morning, and on arriving at 
Montgeron we felt so hungry we could have eaten anything. 
But there was nothing to eat ! The inn we stopped at, 
although looking decent enough, had no provisions at all ; 
three stage-coaches and two post-chaises had been before us, 
and like the locusts of Egypt the passengers had devoured 
everything. 

That's what the cook said. 

I saw, however, turn on the spit a most beautiful leg of 
mutton, on which the ladies cast coquettish looks, as they 
habitually do on everything. 

Alas 1 they cast their looks in vain. The leg of mutton 
belonged to three Englishmen who had brought it with them, 
and were waiting for it patiently whilst chatting over a bottle 
of champagne. 

*' But, at least/' I said, partly annoyed and partly entreat- 



.• m , 






VARIETIES. 437 

evening quietly speaking of our misfortunes, our pleasures, 
and our expectations. 

There we made the acquaintance of a Mr. Wilkinson, a 
Jamaica planter, and of a man who, without doubt, was one 
of his friends, for he always was with him. 

The latter, whose name I never knew, was one of the 
most extraordinary men I ever saw. He had a square face, 
sharp eyes, and appeared to examine everything attentively ; 
but he never spoke, and his features were as immovable as 
those of a blind man. 

Only when he heard a joke or something humorous, his 
face expanded ; he closed his eyes, and opening a mouth as 
wide as the bell of a horn, he gave vent to a prolonged sound 
which was like a kind of laughter and neighing, and is called 
in English a "horse laugh;" then everything went on as 
usual, and he resumed his habitual taciturnity : his laugh 
had the effect and the duration of a flash of lightning which 
cleared the atmosphere. As for Mr. Wilkinson, who ap« 
peared about fifty, he had the manners and the outward 
bearing of a gentleman. 

These two Englishmen appeared much to value our 
society, and had already partaken several times, without 
wanting much pressing, of the frugal meal I offered to my 
friends, when one evening Mr. Wilkinson took me aside and 
told me he wanted to invite us all three to dinner. 

I thanked him ; and as I thought I had sufficient authority 
to act for my friends, I accepted for all three, and an appoint- 
ment was made for three o'clock for the next day but one. 

The evening was spent as usual ; but just as I was going 
away the waiter took me aside and told me that the Jamaica 
planters had ordered a good dinner, and had given special 
directions for the wine and spirits to be very good, as they 
regarded the invitation as a challenge to test who should 
drink most, and that the man with the big moutli had said 
that he hoped he would put the three Frenchmen under the 
table. 



433 VARIETIES. 

This news would have made me refuse to go to this ban- 
quet, if I could have done so with credit to myself, for I 
have always avoided such orgies ; but it was impossible. 
The English planters would have proclaimed everywhere 
that we dared not accept the combat, and that their presence 
alone sufficed to make us retreat. Therefore, although fore- 
warned of the danger, we adopted the saying of Marshal 
Saxe, ** Since the wine is drawn it must be drunk ! ** * 

I was not without some regret ; but, in fact, these regrets 
were not for myself. 

I looked upon it as certain that I, being at the same time 
younger, taller, and more vigorous than my host, and having 
a constitution which had never been tried by strong drinks, 
would triumph easily over those two Englishmen, probably 
worn out by their abuse of spirituous liquors. 

Without doubt, if I had remained seated to the last in 
the midst of four prostrate figures, I might have been pro- 
claimed conqueror ; but my sole victory would have been 
singularly weakened by the downfall of my two fellow- 
countrymen, who would have been carried off with the slain 
in the hideous condition that follows such a defeat. I wanted 
to avoid this scandal ; and I wished the French nation to 
triumph, and not the individual. 

I sent for both Fehr and La Massue, addressed them in 
a severe and formal manner, and warned them to be careful. 
I advised them to drink small quantities at a time, to 
throw away some liquor while I was attracting the attention 
of our antagonists, and above all to eat slowly, and to keep 
a little appetite in reserve, for food mixed with drink dimi- 
nishes in strength, and prevents it flying to the brain with so 
much violence. Moreover, we shared between us a plate of 

* Hermann Manrice, Count de Saxe (1696-1750), was an illegitimate 
son of Augustus, Elector of Saxcny, and King of Poland, and Aurora 
von Koenigsmark. He was one of the bravest generals of Louis XV., 
was made a marshal in 1744, and marshal -general in 1747. It is said 
that the above quoted saying of the marshal was uttered before the 
battle of FoDtenoy. — Tr. 



VARIETIES. 439 

bitter almonds, which I had heard praised for their quality 
of moderating the fumes of wine. 

Thus armed, physically and morally, we went to Little's, 
where we found tHe Jamaica planters, and soon after dinner 
was served. 

It consisted of an enormous piece of roast-beef, a turkey 
cooked in its own gravy, vegetables, a salad,* and a jam-tart. 
We drank in the French fashion, that is to say, the wine 
was served from the very beginning of the dinner. It was 
very good claret, which was then cheaper in the United 
States than in France, because lately several cargoes had 
arrived which had to be sold very cheaply. 

Mr. Wilkinson did the honours admirably, invited us to 
taste of everything, and gave us the example; his friend 
seemed buried in his plate, not saying anything, and looking 
at us sideways, and laughing with the comers of his mouth. 
As for me, I was delighted with my two acolytes. La 
Massue, although gifted with a rather large appetite, was as 
careful with his dinner as a fanciful young lady ; and Fehr 
from time to time got rid of several glasses of wine, which he 
adroitly poured into a beer-pot which stood at the bottom of 
the table. As for me, I boldly held my own with the Eng- 
lishmen, and the longer the repast lasted the more I felt my 
confidence increase. 

After the claret came port, after port Madeira, to which we 
stuck for a long while. 

When the dessert came on, which consisted of butter, cheese, 
cocoanuts, and hickory-nuts, f toasts were proposed, and we 
drank amply to the health of all kings, to the Liberty of 
peoples, and to the beauty of the ladies; we even drank 
with Mr. Wilkinson to the health of his daughter Maria, 

* M. Brillat-Savarin speaks of a salad de choux crus^ or of raw cab- 
bages, by which he means " Coss lettuces,** then scarcely known in 
France. — Tr. 

t Our author has a phonetic way of spelling " hickory,** namely, 
ycory.—''Yvi, 



440 VARIETIES. 

whom, he assured us, was the prettiest girl in the whole 
island of Jamaica. 

After the wine came the spirits, that is to say, mm, brandy, 
and raspberry-brandy ; * with the spirits came songs, and I 
saw that it was getting rather hot for us. 

I was afraid of the spirits, and to avoid them I asked for 
some punch ; Mr. IJttle himself brought in a bowl, no doubt 
prepared beforehand, which was large enough for forty people- 
In France such capacious drink ing-vessels do not exist. 

This sight restored my courage ; 1 ate five or six pieces of 
toast well buttered, and I felt my strength renewed. 

Then I cast a scrutinising glance on everything around 
mc, for I began to feel uneasy about the finish. My two 
friends appeared comparatively sober ; they drank while 
eating hickory-nuts. Mr. Wilkinson's face was crimson, his 
eyes looked glassy, and he appeared done for. His friend 
held his tongue, but his head smoked like a boiling caldron, 
and his immense mouth was sticking out. I perceived that 
the catastrophe was near. 

Suddenly, Mr. Wilkinson seemed to wake up, started to 
his feet, and be;jan to sing, in a loud voice, the national air, 
*' Rule Britannia ; " but he could not get on any farther ; his 
strength failed him, and he fell back on his chair, and thence 
rolled under the table. His friend seeing him in such a state, 
gave vent to one of his loudest horse-laughs, and, stooping 
down to assist him, fell by his side. 

It is impossible to explain the satisfaction I felt at this 
sudden result, and the weight which it took from my mind. 
I hastened to ring for the landlord, who came up, and after 
having told him. as was customary, " to see those gentlemen 
properly attended to," we drank with him a parting glass 
of punch to their healih. 

Meanwhile the waiter came with his assistants to take 
possession of the vanquished, whom they carried home 

* I do not know if " raspberry-brandy " is still used in the States ; 
" peach-brandy " is. — Tr. 



) 



VARIETIES. 441 

between them " feet foremost/' ♦ the friend preserving ab- 
solute immobility, and Mr. Wilkinson still trying to sing his 
favourite air, " Rule Britannia." 

The next morning the New York newspapers, afterwards 
copied by all the other papers in the States, gave a pretty 
exact account of everything that had happened, with the 
remark that the two Englishmen were ill in consequence 
of the dinner. I therefore went to call upon them. I found 
the friend quite stupefied and suffering from a severe attack 
of indigestion, and Mr. Wilkinson confined to his chair by 
an attack of gout, brought on probably by our Bacchanalian 
contest. He appeared pleased with my visit, and said to 
me amongst many other things, "My dear sir, you are very 
good company indeed, but too haid a drinker for us." 



IV. 
ABLUTIONS. 

I have already stated that the vomitorium of the Romans 
was repugnant to the delicacy of our manners ; f but I am 
afraid I have committed an imprudence, and that I shall be 
obliged to retract my statement. 

Let me explain this. 

About forty years ago some persons of the upper classes, 
nearly always ladies, used to be rinsing their mouths after 
meals. 

Just before leaving the table a servant presented them a 
basin of water ; they turned round so that no one could see 

* In English this expression is applied, according to our author, to 
those people who are carried off intoxicated or dead drunk. 

t See Meditation XIV. f 75, page 236. Read also on this subject 
in Mr. J. Cordy JeafTreson's "A Book about the Table,'' vol. L chap. 
15. "Cruelties and Curiosities," the history of the provand of Judge 
Rumsey. — Ta. 

3K 






442 VARIETIES. 

them, took a mouthfiil, and very cpifulr emptied it in a 
saucer. The servant then took cTcnriiing awar, and the 
whole performance was d jne so defily tiiat tirdly any one 
perceiveii i^ 

B'l: we have chan^ri all that. 

In tho*^ h >ases wh-^-e they pr'de themselres on their 
fa.ihior»able manner?, it is now the cist Dm for servants, 
towards :h- end of die dessert, to hand to C3.ch of the gnests 
a boTil full of col 1 water, in the m.dit of which stands a> 
goblet of hot water. Then, before the whole company, 
people cip their finders in the c:>ld water, so that it may 
look as if they ha i wa->hed them, an i take the hot water in 
the mouth, g^r(^le themselves n.,i5:Iy with it, and then eject 
it ir.to the goolet or into the bowl. 

I am not the only one who has protested a^^nst an 
inr. ovation as unless as it is in-Iecent and disgusting. 

It is uscle^.', because, amorg all persons who know how 
to e^t, the mouth is clean at the end of a meal ; it is 
clean -el cither by fruit, or by the last glasses we are 
accu*tomed to drink at dessert. As for the hands, they 
ouf^ht not to be made dirty by u-e ; moreover, crery one 
has a napkin on which he can wipe them. 

It is indecent, for it is a generally recognised principle 
that all ablutions should be done in the privacy of the 
dressing-room. 

It is particularly disg^isting, for the loveliest and most 
tempting lip'5 lose all their charms when they perform the 
functions of an evacuating organ. What will it be then if 
such a n-.outij is neither pretty nor youthful? And what 
sliall wc say of those enormous gaping clefts that show 
abyss'-s which are apparently without a bottom, and which 
exhibit teeth attacked by time. I'ro/i pudor I Such a 
ridiculous practice is the result of an affectation of pretentious 
cleanliness, which is neither according to our taste nor to our 
manners. 

When once certain limits are overstepped, people do not 



VARIETIES. 443 

know where to stop ; and I cannot say what purifications 
may yet take place in our presence. 

Since the official appearance of those new-fashioned bowls, 
I utter lamentations day and night. Like a new Jeremiah, 
I bewail the aberration of fashion ; and when on my travels, 
never enter a dining-room without expecting to find there 
some abominable utensil.* 



V. 

MYSTIFICATION OF THE PROFESSOR AND 
DEFEAT OF THE GENERAL. 

Some years ago the newspapers announced the discovery 
of a new perfume ; the Henurocallis^ a bulbous plant which 
has in fact a very agreeable odour, somewhat resembling 
that of jessamine. 

I am very inquisitive, and rather a loiterer, and therefore 
one fine day wound my way towards the Faubourg St Ger- 
main, where I was going to find this perfume, " the chosen 
delight of the nostrils," as the Turks say. 

I was received there, as every customer will always be 
received, and they took for me, out of the sanctum sanctorum 
of a well-fitted-up chemist's shop, a little box carefully 
wrapped up, and which appeared to hold two ounces of those 
precious crystals ; a politeness which I acknowledged by 
paying three francs, according to those rules of compensation 
of which every day M. Azalsf enlarges the scope and 
principles. 

* It is well known that in England there are, or, rather, there were, 
dining-rooms a few years ago where there was no necessity to leave the 
room for anything : this was strange but handyi and was perhaps of less 
consequence in a country where the ladies withdraw as soon as the 
gentlemen begin to drink wine. 

t Pierre Hyadnthe Azals (Z766-X845X a philosopher and moralist, 
who wrote, amongst other works, a book "On Compensations in Human 
Destinies," in which he maintains that '* the sum total of destruction 



444 VXRIKTTFS, 

A nov=r/» w'lM hiv*» oneT><»H *\\e box at once, smeit and 
!-»ct»»fl if, sMt T ■>r')''<*--or nrt^ 'hrtcr^^ntly ; ind I ihink that 
in -nrh 1 '-.I'^f .r/nfvl'* i« irtvNaciie. I 'vent ..ome at a pro- 
f,»<.i» nil .r»r<», arrl ^o'^n, riP^'Itrl -m .ny _oucn, 1 was pre- 

I ♦orlc •"'• ' "^^ v:'!^ 'It*" .CfHt i-.-m mv ".ocuet, and out 
,f 'n^ .'\'^'; 'vrii \v' ""li .t was ^r-ar • «'(l in. Tiiere were 
xhrr-e .tt'-»»»'i*'y T-rn'^^l .orum^ritH, -.11 icfemn^ to :he 
//^ »;/.»- ,^ t/ ,r, •> ,ts nf»tiirtl .^wt«in% :o its cutture, to its 
}l.)tv'»'-i»v, iT>H *o *'■<• <l<»lira^e •*r»'/ym<»ntH 'hat mj:iht '.e 
(\fr''Vf»\ \rr,rn \t^ -.iTfnTne, whe-rhrr it '.va«» concentrated In 
pn-^h '•''•:. in'xr«l ,n cu..i>ary pr^-i/ar.itions, or whether it an- 
p^if'^'l >n (Mr nl)t<»s, ..i-;«oivrl .n ilr.>hr,i;c '.luueuri; or :om- 
i.T^'l vjth r<»-rrf>'\m. f r'*'*^ .ittrTiiivlv :lie tliree nnnted. 
wtT-^orr";, I*, T'> .nfVmnifv .Tiv-rif for 'he comnensanon I 
inv* -ilf'idy m'»nM'.n'»«f. 2'. To pr^r-,ire mv-«<»lf conveniently 
fz-if •h'» 'jy)''»''pr'iitir,n >f 'he new ^rea^ure extracteri from 'he 

I o^''n'»'l •hT'-for'*, with .ill '!ne reverence, *he box which. 
I ^^Vl^y,<^'\ f'jil )f pn-^tilles. Hut f .v.s >urT>rHerl ind pained 
to fipH, .*:'' in 1 -erond -"'loy of 'he -hrec prlnterl liocuments 
f h^f[ ,nst ^.""^o'iy p^nis*».i, anfi mei.-iy as icc«'>sories, al>)Ul 
two Ho7^n .<.7^ii'^t»-; ; atiH 'o ^ot Oif^-e I "nad :raveiled ail the 
wjy 'o *hf* noMe finhon»-f7 Siint-^>rmr»in. 

To li/'niin w »h, I ^istrvl ihem, -ind I mn«»t render homage 
to the ♦r'lth l>y trim ttincj *hat I fonnM tlie-^e pastilles very 
nfTT'»^n''>ie; dm* I /'•cjret all *he more 'hat, .n >pite of outward 
aT,*>#»Tr-inr^^, »nTe wrre io lew '>f them ; antl, in fact, the 
more f 'io'i'^lt a"'K>'it it, the more I fe t my>cif made a. fool 
of. 

I ro«;e, thT^fore, w/h the intention of taking back the 



af* al"'r"t"'ly fovy^'"^ «i<1 <'*;'-r»mp'.*.«»'H. an<i Ainr^ the nr.ivT^e nxaaaoA 
lrrmov*r-^^l«•. . . . vr fi— iit^<», .n ih*» jrHoii* />f ntiman life, is necevarily 

by tnat fA ua' r tcuon. T ner-efare^ th«re iS c^m^matitm," — T»- 



VARIETIES. 445 

box to the shop where I bought it, even if they kept the 
money ; but in getting up I perceived my grey hairs in a 
looking-glass ; I laughed at my vivacity and sat down again, 
though I felt annoyed. This annoyance has lasted a long 
while, as my readers can see. Moreover, a particular con- 
sideration retained me ; I had bought these pastilles from a 
chemist, and not four days ago I had been an eye-witness 
of the extreme imperturbability of one of the members of 
that respectable profession. 

I am going to tell my readers another anecdote ; to-day is 
the 17th of June of the year of our Lord 1825, and I am in 
a narrative mood. May Heaven grant that this mood does 
not become a public calamity ! 

I went one morning to pay a visit to General Bouvrier des 
Eclats, my friend and countryman. 

I found him walking up and down his room in a state of 
agitation, and crushing between his hands a piece of paper, 
on which I thought were written some verses. 

"Here," he said, handing it to me, "give me your 
opinion of this ; you are a judge of such things." 

I took the paper, and having glanced over it, I saw to my 
great astonishment that it was a bill for medicines supplied 
to the General ; so that my services were not required as a 
poet, but simply as a pharmaconomist.* 

"Upon my word, my dear friend," I said, giving him 
back his property, "you know the customs of the corpora- 
tion whose services you have engaged ; they have perhaps 
gone a little too far; but why do you wear an embroidered 
coat, three orders, and a cocked hat, with golden tassels? 
Those are three aggravating circumstances, and you will not 
get the best of it." 

" Hold your tongue ! " he said impatiently ; "this charge 
is abominable. But you'll see the swindler directly, for I 
have sent for him ; he is coming, and you will back me up." 

He was still speaking, when the door opened, and in 

* Fkarmaccmcme, another word invented by our author.— Tk. 



4-t5 VARIETIES. 

came a man of aboot fifty-nvc; iressed with. care. His 
besLT.n^ was lofty, his demeanour j ti iv e, and Jns whole 
coantenance 'lore a iniform imrress if ierenty, belled by 
something araunic Inrkini; aiDund his mouth and 3i his 
eves. 

He 'irew near the n replace, refused to sit iawn, and I 
"ir-w present at the fbilowing lia^otjue, whicn I have acca:> 
ratt?!y preserved. 

T"')^ ZenrriL — iir, the aote which you have i«xt me is x 
re^.ilar aoothecary^^ bill,* and ... 

T't^ J fin in £ 'irk. — Sir, I am not an apothecary. 

Tk*^ Can^ii, — What are you then, sir? 

7**4!? ^fln. in B\uk, — Sir, I am a chemist. 

T'te dmril, — Weil, Mr. Chemist, y':ur man most bsTc 
tr>M you . . . 

Th^ .IfiH :n B'iJ^i. — Sir, I have no men. 

Tn^ G^.mr^, — Then, what was that y':ung fellow who 

Th^ Min in Rl<uk, — Sir, he is my puriL 

7h€ Gemrai. — I wUhcd to tell you, sir, tha: your dru^ . . . 

'ffw Min in Blzrk. — Sir, I do not sell dr-j^. 

7h^ G^n^ral. — Wr.at, trien, do you sel!, sir? 

7}u Afan in Bl'ick. — Sir, I sell metiic-.ncs. 

T.'i«rre the di^cu-.^ion en ied. The General, ashamed of 
havjr.:; made so ma ay blunders, and of bein^ so Utile vcrecd 
in a kn''>wl'^d;'e of the pharmaceutical lan^ua^e, lost his self- 
p''/;v;>>ion, forgot what he had to say, and paid the bill 
m fiJil. 

• fr» Fr »n«'h a bill contatnin;^ overcharge* is called fami'iarlj 
vrmJ fomptc tC a^tkicnire ; tiie reaioa for thi^ i& obvioiu. — Ta. 



VARIETIES. 447 



VI. 

THE DISH OF EELS. 

In Paris there lived sometime ago in the Rue Chanss^e d' 
Antin, a certain person whose name was Briguet, who bad 
been a coachman, and afterwards a horse-dealer, and had 
made a small fortune. 

He was a native of Talissieu,* and when he went back 
there, he married a woman who had a little money, and 
had formerly been a cook at Madame Thevenin*s,f whom 
all Paris knew by her nickname of ** Ace of Spades." 

An opportunity presented itself of acquiring a small 
property in his native village ; so he bought it, and 
established himself there with his' wife towards the end 
of 1 791. 

At that time it was the custom for vicars of the entire 
presbyterial circuit to meet once a month at the house of 
one of them in turn, to confer on ecclesiastical matters. 
High mass was said, after which a conference was held, 
and then they went to dinner. 

This was called **The Conference," and the vicar, at 
whose house it was to take place, did not fail to make some 
preparations so as to receive his colleagues well and as 
became them. 

But when it was the turn of 'the vicar of Talissieu it 
happened that one of his parishioners had made him a present 
of a magnificent eel, more than three feet long, caught in 
the limpid waters of Serans. 

Delighted at possessing a fish of such dimensions, the 
clergyman was afraid his cook would not be able to prepare 

* A small villaf^e in the department of the Ain, in the arrondisse- 
ment of Bellcy, the birthplace of our author. — Tk. 

t Madame Thevenin (1763-1841) was an actress, very dark and rather 
stout, hence her nickname. — Tr. 



^ f ^ 



t 

* 



t » f ' ' • ^ ^ f*' ■* ■* 



. .- / / ' * t 



4 • 






VARIETIES. 449 

sort of a condiment produced such marvellous effects, the 
more so as nobody complained that it had been of a danger- 
ous or corrosive nature. 

The culinary artist admitted that she had made use of a 
crayfish sauce strongly spiced ; but I am certain she did not 
say everything she knew. 



VII. 
THE ASPARAGUS. 



M. Cortois de Quincey,* Bishop of Belley, was told one 
day that a head of a marvellous size had just appeared above 
one of the asparagus beds of his kitchen garden. 

Immediately everybody ran to the spot to ascertain the 
truth of the story ; for, even in Episcopal palaces, people are 
delighted with having something to do. 

The news was found to be neither false nor exaggerated : 
the head stuck out the earth, and appeared already above the 
ground. It was round, shiny, variegated, and gave promise 
of an asparagus the size of a column, and so thick that the 
hand could hardly spad it 

This horticultural phenomenon was the talk of every one. 
It was clear that the bishop alone had the right of cutting it, 
and an order was immediately given to a neighbouring cutler 
to make a knife specially for this lofty purpose. 

For several days the asparagus continued to grow, and to 
look more charming and beautiful ; its progress was slow, 
but gradual, and soon people began to perceive that part 
of the white stalk which is not fit to be eaten. 

The time for cutting it having come, a good dinner was 
first given, and then the operation was delayed until after the 
bishop and hb guests had come back from their walk. 

* Gabriel Cortois de Quincey was Bishop <^ Belley from 1751 to 1790. 
-Tr. 

3L 



Tii-r :*« b^fTtirtr airtnn^i. "•riii tiic cScixI knife in his 
ia^i. 5::i:7*rc jTxrtjT-, mf r»*r^:a tr srntrile the proad 
Tc^-ii-iu* frr^r iis 5CL.k. "iri_l* ib; "■ri,:^:* of ibe arrcsiants of 
tiiC ET->r:7il rmr: *j::we£ sisn* nrpiTirnrg to rrarninc its 
£»rc5 iiii ci'^timrc 

B:.% ID ir^ szirrn^c £.srT7«:- :::=>€- 1. ari s-orrow, the 
kr.f* ■•r.i.". i ^x nrt. t-'i. u:e zzt^zt rD>c -ir.Li: n^ihiag in his 
1,7' is. Tr e i5T•i.~3vp-^ ^rx? s. w ri^i^r : rft. 

Tils ;:ic^ T'trr^T'S ci.rr.*i & l.:-Je tor lir. was planned by 
the CiTi:- K:rf>-u z nii.re cf S;^n:-C-a:.i£,* at: admirable 
turner, zr.i a very 12. r trr^t. 

H^ Lii r-T-'i a ■■-:>:»ie= a^rsrrc^s in i^rfect irritation of 
a real :-::c, i-i r.z:k :: bj 5:?^':":: m:^ tie be^i, and lifted it 
a ..!*/.* everr izr :d :~::i:e the r.r«r:«rr.il eromtx 

T:.e b.-h:p c:d n:'. k-zw'urw i.e cucht to take thismysti- 
fccticn, f.r i: wa^ z^'.j :ne: r^: >ee:-^ a g^in on the faces 
of zLl t:^e brstsr-ierN. ke ?=: iei, :;L::i the smile wis followed 
by a general exp".D>.:-n of rea'.ly Hc:i.eric laughter. The 
ccrpu: d licii was then removed, an:, without taking any 
funher D:.tice of the perr-etrs-ticn of :he ;>.ke, for the whole of 
\:j2i\ erccln:; at le2.>t the monster a>i ara^js had the honours 
of the draw.n^-room. 



VIII. 

THE PLOT. 

The chrvalUr de Lanc;eac + had been pretty well off, but 
hi-* fortune had disappeared among those expenses which are 

• Saint-Claude, a little town of Franche-Comrc, now in the depart- 
ment of the Jura, was until 1742 govrmej by an abbot of a Benedictine 
convent, wh j wa» directly appointed by the Pope, and was spiritual and 
tcinj*«^ral lord of the town. Only noblemen were, in the latter times, 
all'>wcd to Ixrcomc members of the chapter of this abbey. 

f In the firkt edition of the Physiolo^it du CrU/, published a few 
months before the author's death in 1825, no name, but on'y CArva/irr- 
de L——, was printed ; in later editions the luune was added. ; Can 



VARIETIES. 451 

compulsory on any man who is rich, young, and good-look- 
ing. 

He collected what was left of it, and with the assistance 
of a small pension he received from the government, lived 
pretty comfortable at Lyons amongst the best society, for 
experience had taught him economy. 

Although always gallant, he nevertheless danced no longer 
attendance on the fair sex ; he still did not mind taking a 
hand with them in any game of skill, for he played them all 
very well, but he coolly defended his money against them, 
a characteristic of those men who expect nothing more from 
them. 

Gourmandise now took the place of all his other inclina- 
tions, and it can be said with truth that he became a pro- 
fessed gourmand ; and as he was, moreover, very agreeable, 
he received more invitations than he could accept. 

Lyons is a town where people are fond of good living ; 
owing to its geographical position, claret. Hermitage, and 
Burgundy are easily to be got there ; the game of the neigh- 
bouring hills is excellent ; in the lakes of Geneva and of 
Bourget the best fish in the world is to be caught; and 
connoisseurs take great pleasure in the fat pullets of Bresse, 
which are all sent to this town. 

The thevalUr de Langeac had always a knife and fork 
laid for him at the best tables in Lyons ; but where he liked 
to dine especially was at Mr. A-'s, a very rich banker and a 
distinguished connoisseur. The chevalier gave as a reason 
for the preference that he and the banker had been at college 
together ; though spiteful men, for such there are everywhere, 
attributed his frequent visits to Mr. A. having as his cook the 
best pupil of Ramier, a skilful culinary artist, who flourished 
in those remote times. 

this ckevalur'he the tame one as a certain Chevalier de Langeac men- 
tioned ,in Grimm's Mimeint Hisieriques, LitUraireM^ ^c, whose 
translation of the beginning of the z6th book of the " Iliwl " was 
publicly and honourably mentioned by the French Academy in 1778?— 
Tr. 



r .- 



.It 



<:"■. -.- *, 






.d^r 



■•na 



,• -• 



♦ - ^ 






-Ll -Xt i=r- IT 



ClT 



TiMi \JtL 



•,-a' ./ ^^r v'/j -.A3' V trri .r.r.-v«*n ^'-..vi einln^ 

, .^ ^//..'/f ->.,..ru» .Ait rin .«;5 jr>.*.i. rooiiimisns. An 
^f^/,^ #./ . < ^,y<'-.r..4»r:i '. -v.'T :AC?n 1 7^TV inc -like x» 3/caik 
.^,»M 't-.,.r^,-t »y '.^ ,!•; unai j::« iiAnes, if ■w^hicn :}ne was 

/♦ •'. ^ *.,'^-«rvin/'.^, •'/.« rhyr,/uurr feit his expiring ^onr 
f-f'f*^ n. ..^^ ^ ^ ^♦.•'•r jii^rV* \c^»\LfA as if they were giving 
n;, »t>^ ^'r'^t. K/^'l'M :*y 'li^* ^l.anff* of Tr.nes, he cnixinphed 

* ft *¥ ♦♦it«i'»f i»«i*« n*f* anMh^r word <^ hi« inToidoii, 



VARIETIES. 453 

over their weakness, and drank their healtlis in numerous 
bumpers, with which he washed down a large slice of the 
pike, which had followed the leg of the turkey. 

The side dishes were tackled in their turn, and gloriously 
he pursued his career, resolved to have for his dessert only a 
bit of cheese and a glass of Malaga, for sweets formed no 
part of his programme. 

My readers will have observed that M. de Langeac had 
had already two surprises during supper : the first was, 
because the dishes were too substantial ; the second, to find 
the guests with such bad appetites. A third surprise, and 
that a much greater one, was in store for him. 

For the servants, instead of bringing the dessert, took 
away everything that was on the table, the plate as well as 
the linen, gave others to the guests, and served up four fresh 
entries^ of which the savour rose upwards to the skies. 

These were, veal sweetbreads with crayfish sauce, roes and 
truffles, a larded and stuffed pike, and wings of the large red 
partridge, with ^purit of mushrooms. 

Like that old magician of whom Ariosto speaks, and who 
having the beautiful Armida in his power, only made feeble 
efforts to dishonour her,* M. de Langeac was horrified at 
the sight of so many good things he could no longer eat, and 
he commenced to suspect evil intent. 

But all the other guests seemed, on the contrary, to gain 
fresh strength. Their appetites came back, the headaches 
disappeared, an ironical smile seemed to irradiate theirmouths, 
and it was now their turn to drink to the health of the cheva* 
lier, whose eating powers were exhausted. 

Nevertheless, he put a good face on the matter, and 
endeavoured to brave the storm courageously; at the third 
mouthful Nature revoked, and his stomach threatened to 

' * Our learned author here quotes probably from memory, for Armida 
is not the heroine of Ariosto, but of Tasso's " Jerusalem Delivered.*' 
He means to speak of Angelica, the heroine of Ariosto's *' Orlando 
Furioso," and of her adrenture with the Hermit, canto viiL 49.— Tr. 




\ 



VARIETIES, 455 

IX. 

THE TURBOT. 

Discord one day threatened to introduce itself into the 
bosom of one of the most united families of the capital. It 
'was precisely on a Saturday, the Jewish Sabbath-day ; and 
the cause of it was a turbot that had to be cooked ; it was in 
the country, at Villecresnes.* 

This fish, snatched, it was said, from a far more glorious 
fateyf was to be served on the morrow at a banquet of nice 
people, of whom I was one. It was fresh, plump, and looked 
remarkably well ; its size was so much larger than all the 
pans that could be got that no one knew how to prepare it. 

"Well," said the husband, "let us cut it in two."— 
"Would you dare so to disgrace this poor creature?" 
asked the wife. "We must do it, my dear, as we cannot 
do anything else. Bring the chopper, and it will soon be 
decided ! '* — " Wait a little, my friend, there will always be 
time to do that. You know that my cousin is coming ; he 
is a professor, and he will soon find the means to get us out 
of the difficulty.'* — "A professor . . . get us out of the 
difficulty I . . . Nonsense ! " And a faithful report informs 
me that he who spoke thus did not appear to have a great 
confidence in the professor, and nevertheless that professor 
was myself ! 

The difficulty would probably have been got rid of in 
Alexander the Great's manner,^ when I arrived in double- 

* Villecresnes, a hamlet in the department of Seine et Oisei with the 
beautiful castle of Cer^ay. — Tr. 

t No fate could have been more glorioai for a turbot than to be eaten 
by our author and his friends ; not even if it had been served up on the 
table of Napoleon I. The professor is too modest. — Tr. 

X Alexander the Great cut the Gordian knot in twain with his sword, 
when they told him that whoever undid it would reign over the whole 
East This knot was contrived by Gordius, a peasant chosen king of 
Phry^^ia. who dedicated his waggon to Jupiter, and fastened it so in- 
geniottsiy with a rope of bark that no one could untie it. — ^TK. 



b^ 



VARIETIES. 457 

cut from a large hamper a hurdle, exactly the size of this 
gigantic fish. On this hurdle I put a layer of bulbs and 
sweet herbs, on which the turbot was laid, after being well 
washed, thoroughly dried, and with sufficient salt. A second 
layer of the same seasoning was placed on its back. Then 
the hurdle was placed on the boiler half-full of water ; and 
the whole was covered with a little tub, around which dry 
sand was put to prevent the steam from escaping too easily. 
Soon the water in the boiler was heated, and the steam filled 
the whole of the tub, which was taken off in about half an 
hour; then the hurdle was lifted out of the boiler with the 
turbot done to a nicety, very white, and looking admirably. 

When this was going on we sat down to dinner with 
appetites sharpened by the delay, by our work and by our 
success, so that we had time enough to arrive at that happy 
moment, always indicated by Homer,* when the abundance 
and the variety of the food drives hunger away. 

Next day at dinner the turbot was served to the worthy 
guests, t who complimented us on its good appearance. Then 
the master of the house told in what unexpected manner it 
had been cooked, and I was praised not only for my season- 
able invention, but also for its results, for, after having care- 
fully tasted it, it was unanimously decided that fish, cooked 
in this fashion, is very much better than cooked in a turbot- 
kettle. 

This decision did not surprise anybody, as the fish had 
not been in boiling water, and, therefore, had not lost any 
of its properties, but, on the contrary, had been impregnated 
with the flavour of the seasoning. 

Whilst my ears were completely saturated with the com- 
pliments showered on me, I looked for more sincere evidence 
by observing the guests, and I saw with secret delight that 
General Labassee was so satisfied that he smiled at every 

• Homer, passim ••Iliad," i. 469, &c.— Tr. 

t Was the tarbot served up cold '* next day," or, if not, how was it 
kept warm? Our author is silent on so important a subject.— Th. 

3M 



Bl^ 



VARIETIES. 459 

hectolitre, or a little more than twenty-two gallons. I think 
that this very simple way of cooking may be of some import- 
ance wherever there is a large bakehouse, either in town or 
in the country ; that is why I have described it so that 
everybody can understand and profit by it. 

I believe that the power of steam has not been sufficiently 
turned to account for domestic purposes, and I hope that 
some day the bulletin of our Society for the Encouragement 
of National Industry will tell husbandmen that I am further 
occupied with it 

P.S. — One day when a committee of gastronomic pro- 
fessors was assembled in the Rue de la Pais, No. 14, I told 
the story how I had cooked a turbot by steam. When I 
had finished, a gentleman who sat on my left turned towards 
me, and asked in a reproachful tone, " Was I not present ? 
And did not I vote as well as the rest?" — " Certainly," said 
I, " yon were there, and you sat next to the cur/, and with- 
out any reproach, you took your share of the fish." 

The gentleman who put in his claim was a M. Lorrain, 
whom Nature had created a first-class gourmand, and who 
was also a financier as agreeable as prudent ; he has brought 
his ship safely into port, so he now can judge calmly of the 
effects of the tempest ; for more than one reason his name 
deserves therefore to be mentioned here. 



X. 

VARIOUS RESTORATIVE PREPARATIONS 

BY THE PROFESSOR. 
Improvised for the case mentioned in Meditation XXV. 

A 

Take six large onions, three carrots, and a handful of 
parsley ; mince the whole and put it into a stewpan ; then 
heat it and brown it with a good lump of fresh butter. 



^ 



^-«> 

V 



1 



VARIETIES. 461 

of high flavour and worthy of being served up at ft dinner 
of connoisseurs. 

Instead of an old cock we can take four old partridges ; 
and instead of the beef, we can take part of a leg of mutton ; 
and the soup will neither be less effective nor less agreeable. 

In all cases when one is in a hurry, it is better to mince 
the meat and to brown it before moistening it, for meats 
treated in this way take much more caloric than in water. It 
can, therefore, be used every time when a good meat broth 
is wanted, and without having five or six hours to wait for 
it ; this may often happen, especially in the country. It is, 
of course, understood that those who use it should sing the 
praises of the professor. 

B. 

Everybody knows that if ambergris, considered as a per- 
fume, is injurious to the profane who have delicate nerves, 
when taken internally it is a splendid tonic, and very exhila- 
rating. Our ancestors used it a good deal in their cookery, 
and were not the worse for it 

It is well known that Marshal Richelieu,* of glorious 
memory, habitually chewed ambergris pastilles ; and as for 
me, whenever I feel, some day or other, the burden of age, 
when I think with difficulty, and feel oppressed by some 
power unknown, I take as much powdered amber as will 
lay on a shilling with a cup of chocolate, sugar it to my 
taste, and it has always done me a great deal of good* This 
tonic renders life more easy, makes thoughts flow with 
facility ; and I do not suflier from that sleeplessness which is 
the infallible result of a cup of coffee taken with the intention 
of procuring the same effect. f 

* Lonii- Francois Annand du Plessis, duke of Richelieu (1706-1788), 
Marshal of France and member of the French Academy, distinguished 
himself during his long life by his aunorous and political intrigues. — Tr. 

t Those wonderful effects of ambergris on our author seem the pro- 
duce of his poetical imagination ; in any case it is now only used in 
perfumery, and is no longer considered a tonic or an excitant.— Ta. 



VARIETIES. 4^3 

self-evident that in both these cases there has been increase 
of power ; and I think honestly that I have reason rather 
to be proud of it. 



XI. 

THE PULLET OF BRESSE. 

During one of the first days of the month of January of the 
current year 1825, a young married couple, M. and Madame 
de Versy, had been at a grand and festive oysters-luncheon ; 
and we know what that means. 

Such luncheons are charming, either because the dishes are 
all appetising, or because they usually are very lively ; but 
they have the inconvenience of disturbing the whole day. 

And so it was on this occasion. At dinner-time the young 
couple sat down at their own table, but it was only for 
form's sake. The lady ate a little soup; the gentleman 
drank a glass of wine and water. Some friends arrived, and 
they played a game of whist Thus they spent the evening, 
and then went to bed. 

About two o'clock M. de Versy awoke ; he felt quite un- 
comfortable, yawned, and tossed about so much that his 
wife got uneasy, and asked him if he was ill. ^ No, my 
dear ; but I imagine I am hungry, and I cannot help think- 
ing of that white and nice-looking Bresse pullet we had 
for dinner, and which, nevertheless, we scarcely touched." — 
'* To tell the truth I must admit that I am as hungry as you 
are ; and as you have thought of the pullet, we'll send for it, 
and we'll eat it." — " What madness 1 Everybody is asleep, 
and to-morrow they will laugh at us." — '* If every one is asleep, 
they can wake up, and nobody will laugh at us, for they'll 
know nothing about it. Besides, who knows if between now 
and to-morrow morning one of us may not die of hunger ? I 
don't like to run the chance of it, and I am going to ring for 
Justine." 



iku 



VARIETIES. 465 

XII. 

THE PHEASANT. 

The pheasant is a mystery of which the key is only 
revealed to the initiated; they alone can taste the bird in 
all its perfection. 

Each substance has its highest point of esculence ; some 
arrive at it before their entire development, as capers, 
asparagus, grey partridges, green pigeons, &c. ; others 
arrive at it the moment when they are as perfect as they 
ever can be, such as melons, nearly all fruits, mutton, beef, 
venison, red partridges ; others, finally, when they begin 
to decompose, as medlars, the woodcock, and especially 
pheasants. 

This last-mentioned bird, when it is eaten within three 
days after it has been killed, is not so delicate as a pullet, 
nor so sapid as a quail. 

When eaten at the right time its flesh is tender, sublime, 
gamy, and tastes of chicken and of venison. 

The right time is when the pheasant begins to decom- 
pose ; then its aroma is developed, and combines with an 
oil, which to become developed requires a slight degree of 
fermentation, just as the essential oil of coffee is only 
obtained by roasting the bean. 

This right moment reveals itself to the senses of the un- 
initiated by a slight odour, and by a change in the colour of 
the belly of the bird ; but the bom gourmand divines it by 
a sort of instinct which shows itself on many occasions, so 
that, for example, a first-class cook can tell in an instant 
whether a fowl should be taken from the spit, or be allowed 
to take a few turns more. 

When a pheasant has arrived at this stage it ought to be 
plucked, but not before, and larded carefully with the freshest 
and firmest lard. 

It is not a matter of indifference to pluck a pheasant too 

3 N 



466 VAIUETIES. 

e3Lr> ; tctt caj^efnl experisccts hare tangbt us that those 
kcp: in their feaJiers are laare hi^y perfumed than those 
plucked soTDC time a^cx, ciUier because the contact of the air 
h:xs ne;:::^.5ed some part of the aroma, or that a part of the 
juice tor nourishing the feaihers is absorbed again, and serres 
to gire more navoar lo the meaL 

The \ ird beir.g thus prepared, it must be stuffed, and this 
is done in ihe fcll.^wing manner : Take out the bones of two 
woodcocks, put their meat aside, and keep the trails and lifers 
of the two birds separate: 

Take this meat and mince it, add some beef marrow 
steamed, a little scraped b^con, pepper, salt, herbs, and 
enough good trutSes to stun the inner carity of the pheasant. 

Be careful not to let the stufing spread to the outside, 
which is sometimes a little difficult when the bird is rather 
high. Nevertheless, it can be done in Tarious ways, and 
amongst others by fastening a crust of bread with a piece of 
thread on the stomach, which prevents its bursting. Cat 
a slice of bread longer and wider by two inches than the 
whole pheasant is ; then take the livers and trail of the 
woodcocks, and pound them with two large truffles, one 
anchovy, a little scraped bacon, and a goodly lump of the 
best fresh butter. 

Spread this paste on the slice of bread, and put it under 
the pheasant stutTed as above, so that it may receive all the 
gravy dripping from it while roasting. 

When the pheasant is cooked, serve it up lying gracelhlly 
on its toast, put some bitter oranges round it, and await the 
result wiihout any uneasiness. 

This high-flavoured dish ought to be washed down, in pre- 
ference, with some of the best wine of Upper Burgundy. I 
have discovered this truth after many observations, which 
have cost me more trouble than a whole Table of logarithms. 

A pheasant prepared in this manner is worthy of being 
served up to angels, if the>e were still travelling on this earth, 
as they did in the days of Lot. 



VARIETIES. 467 

What do I say? Such an experiment has been tried. A 
pheasant has been stuffed and cooked whilst I was present, 
by the worthy chef Picard, in the castle of La Grange, be- 
longing to my charming friend Madame de Ville-Plaine,* 
and brought to table by the Major domo Louis, marching as 
if he were marching in a procession. It was examined with 
as much care as if it had been a new bonnet made by Madame 
H^bault,t and was tasted with great attention. Whilst this 
scientific labour was going on, the eyes of the ladies sparkled 
like stars, their lips were as glossy as coral, and their coun- 
tenance became ecstatic. (See the " Gastronomic Tests," 
Mediution XIII.) 

I have done more ; I had a pheasant cooked in the same 
manner, and served up to a committee of magistrates of the 
supreme court, who know that the senatorial toga must 
sometimes be laid aside, and to whom I proved without any 
difficulty that good cheer is a natural compensation for the 
fatigues of study. After a careful examination, the eldest 
declared, with a grave voice, that the bird was excellent in 
taste ; everybody present bent his head in token of acqui* 
escence, and the sentence was unanimously confirmed. 

I observed whilst the deliberation lasted that the noses of 
those venerable men were agitated by very strong move- 
ments of inhalation, that their august brows shone with 
peaceful serenity, and that their truthful mouths looked 
somewhat jubilant and almost smiling. 

Moreover, those marvellous effects are in the nature of 
things. Treated according to the preceding prescription, 
the pheasant, already distinguished itself, is permeated from 
its outside with the savoury fat of the bacon which is 
browned ; and in its inside it is impregnated with the 
odoriferous gases from the woodcocks and the trufHe. The 
toast, already so richly prepared, receives again the gravies 

* This lady has already been mentioned in Meditation VI., | VII. 
43, p. 127.— Th. 
t The fashionable milliner in Paris at the time oar author wrote.— Tr« 






— t Zl ^ 1. 



.Jhl. 







VARIETIES. 469 

those pretty little roebucks that are brought from Canada in 
winter, and which was declared exquisite by the chosen 
committee whom I convoked for this occasion. 

Captain Collet gained also a good deal of money in New 
York in 1794 and 1795 by making ices and sherbets for the 
inhabitants of this commercial town. 

The ladies, in particular, never tired of this pleasure, so 
new to them ; nothing was more amusing than to see the 
funny faces they made whilst tasting, being especially 
astonished that those ices could be kept cold under a 
summer heat of ninety degrees.* 

Passing through Cologne, I met with a gentleman from 
Brittany, who had done very well by keeping dining-rooms, 
and I might quote many other instances, but I prefer to tell 
the story of a Frenchman who made his fortune in London 
by his skill in mixing a salad. 

If I recollect aright he was called d'Aubignac, or d'Al- 
bignac, and was a native of Lim6ges. 

Although his way of living was not very luxurious, as his 
means were very small, he went one day to dine in one of the 
most famous taverns in London. He was one of those people 
who lay down the rule that one can always dine very well on 
a single dish, if it is only good. 

While he was discussing a plate of juicy roast-beef, five or 
six young dandies of good family were enjoying themselves 
at a neighbouring table ; and one of them rose, came to him, 
and said very politely, " Mr. Frenchman, it is said that your 
nation excels in the art of making a salad. Will you oblige 
us and mix one for us." f 

D*Albignac consented after some hesitation, ordered all 
that he thought necessary to make the expected masterpiece, 
did his very best, and had the good luck to succeed. 

* Ice was then a novelty in the United States ; now there is noie ioe 
consumed, I suppose, than in the whole of Europe— Tb. 

t Our author puu in a footnote : This is a literal translatioo of the 
English oomplinwnt which was made on the occasion.— Ta. 



^F— ^^« 






"SatK. ■—»- 



:^ Tx 



tf *.. 



VARIETIES. 471 

Like a wise man d'AIbignac took advantage of such an 
infatuation ; he soon had a gig to go quicker to the yarious 
houses where he had an appointment, and a servant carrying 
a mahogany case containing all the ingredients which he now 
used ; such as vinegar of different flavours, oils with or without 
a fruity taste, soy, caviar, truffles, anchovies, catchup, gravies, 
and even hard-boiled eggs, which are a distinct characteristic 
of the mayonnaise. 

Later on he got such cases made, which he furnished com- 
pletely, and sold by hundreds. 

In short, by carrying on his operations, carefully and in- 
telligently, he realised a fortune of more than eighty thousand 
francs, which he took back with him to France when the 
times had changed. 

When back again in his native land, he did not amuse him- 
self by making a show in the streets of Paris, but thought of 
the future, and placed sixty thousand francs in the public 
funds, which stood then at fifty, and bought for twenty thou- 
sand francs a little country-seat situated in the Limousin, 
where he still lives, for aught I know, contented and happy, 
as he knows to limit his wants. 

Those details were told me some time ago by one of my 
friends who had known d'Albignac in London, and who had 
just met him when passing through Paris. 



XIV. 

OTHER RECOLLECTIONS OF THE 
EMIGRATION. 

The Weaver. 

In 1794, in Switzerland, M. Rostaing* and I were showing 
a serene face in spite of a contrary fortune, and preserving 
our love for our native country which persecuted us. 

* M. le Baron d« Rostaing, my relative and friend, nowmilitary super- 
intendent at Lyons, is ao administrator of the first order ; and has in 



I ■ ■ ,^ 



'- - - 









.5e*j. T. -^L^t— :i^ i .^iTj^i 






.— & 1.^ 



"« - 



» M'* Aft ,«■» .« I V * klA. *W •a^i ^ -*A.>.ftiW^A .^ ^m ^ I ■ fc* 



^w« • * - _ _ - 

t^ ..^ '^,/. ','-..1 . e vi.j..i-Tiiker, ami .n i ccun rry -v-ierff -i— 
r,''/V* ''H a'* r:r. xi'.t^. '.".e i^-f'tr i-x-stis Ln. the C2.r lal or *^« 

,5 ^1 



♦ , A P, •*-*',.'. 2 n'i'irr^n ; if ** I -i.e fcr ■.:," i* :hev asu^Lly say 

"T.^. Vpr.'i.T.'m of .1 n'ln ccr.^iirre^ like f.r-; 
f-ar i\frr.rx ^t..l <» an hr.^-'..ih ^rri s desire.'" • 



• '\ K*«* I., p9,'Af. *li;(StIy altered from Gr«s€t (1709-1777X po«in ^'<t* 
I'frl, /h.tfif II , Hod ar*! in ffiC f.r.^inai — 

•' \}/ -XT (\f fjil? r^t un fell qui d^vore, 
i>/^ir Ar, nonnc est cent fois pii encore." 

Otfr NMth'ff tiMft tk\\rtPi\ "fille" into " nonne," and *'noanc'* in the 

•^"<fl'l liM*» iiiici " migUi**." — Tr. 



■'T.. 



like 1 vis 3B *' ' 

bfitnation ; be awa i: . - 

houses where :ie oa -a -.— ^ 

a mahogmy case C3n!ajr.r - . 

nscd;iuchasvineTr • -«^^ 

a fruity taste. 5ct, :sr •^•. - -, 

and even hard^,;^ — ^ ^ , ' 

of the maymnatu. 

Later on ae ;nt aics -a^ ^^ 
pletely, and soui tt .ou;-^ 

In short, by carrnrjr t . ._ 
telligenUy,hereaiiseci .r-J- "^ 
francs, which he ti,cK :5.^' ^ '7 
times had dianmsi. 

When back again ,n -^ ^.,^ 

self by making a 5howji> -J 
the future, and pbca ^^ . . '. 

funds, which stood ien a ►. 

sand francs a litrle co,acrT _. ' 
where he stUrj,«,f,,^/' ■'- 

« lie knows to limit ;is^;.. ' 

Those details w«e,,,;.^^. 

friends who had known fw, ' 

just met him when p«,„,.^:: 



OTHER RECOLli/- 

emigra:-.' • 

a serene face in JtU i'J^"'"'' " 
uitouient at Lyoiu/b^t^^^'*'^ 



VI ^ 




* fl« .^. 



472 VARIETIES. 

We came to Mondon, where some relatives of mine lived, 
and were received by the TroUiet family with a kindness of 
which I have dearly kept the remembrance. 

This family was one of the oldest in the country, but is 
now extinct, for the last member of it left only one daughter, 
who herself had no male descendant. 

They showed me in this town a young French officer who 
had become a weaver ; and this is how he became it : 

This young man, of a very good family, passing through 
Mondon to join the army of Cond^,* found himself at 
table beside an old man, who had one of those grave and 
animated faces with which painters depict the companions 
of William TclLt 

At dessert some conversation took place, when the officer 
did not conceal his position, and received various marks of 
interest from his neighbour, who expressed his sorrow that 
the young man was compelled to give up in his youth all he 
loved, and remarked that Rousseau was right when he laid 
down the maxim that every man should learn a trade, to 
keep him in times of adversity, and to nourish him every- 
where. As for himself, he declared he was a weaver, a 
widower without children, and that he was content with 
his lot. 

The conversation did not continue, and the next day the 
officer went away, and in a little time was in the ranks of 
the army of Conde. But from all that he saw there, both in 

his portfolio a system of military accounts so clear that one day or other 
it is sure to be generally adopted. 

• Louis-Joseph, Duke of Bourbon, Prince de Cond^ (1736-1818), emi« 
grated during the first French Revolution (1792-1804). and became the 
chief of a corps of imigr^s^ known as the arm^e de Cond^, and in the 
pay of Austria. — Tk. 

t William Tell, chief of the confederates of the forest-canton of 
Switzerland, had for his companions Walter Furst, his father-in-law* 
Stauflfacher and Arnold von Melchtal. It is said, that, having relixsed 
to salute the Austrian Governor's cap, he was condemned to shoot an 
apple from the head of his own son, and succeeded in doing so. Switzezv 
land shook off the Austrian yoke in 1307. — Tk. 



VARIETIES. 473 

that army and elsewhere, he came easily to the condasion 
that this was not the way by which he could hope to return 
to France. Ere long he experienced some of that unpleasant- 
ness which those men, who had no other claim than their zeal 
for the royal cause, not seldom met with there, and later on 
they did him some great injustice or something of that sort, 
which completely disgusted him. 

The words of the weaver dwelt in his memory ; he 
thought of them for some time, and, having made up his 
mind, he left the army, came back to Mondon, presented 
himself to the weaver, and asked him to receive him as an 
apprentice. 

** I shall not let this opportunity escape me of doing a 
good action,'* said the old man ; "you shall live with me ; 
I only know one thing, and I will teach it you. I have 
only one bed, and you shall share it You'll work for one 
year, and at the end of that time you shall establish yourself 
on your own account, and will live happy in a country where 
work is honoured and encouraged." 

The very next day the officer set to work, and succeeded 
so well that at the end of six months his master told him 
that he had nothing more to teach him, that he considered 
himself repaid for the care he had bestowed on him, and 
that from henceforth sdl the profits of his work should be 
for himself. 

When I passed through Mondon the new artisan had 
already gained enough money to buy a loom and a bed ; he 
worked with wonderful assiduity, and the townspeople took 
such a lively interest in him that some of the first families in 
turns asked him to dinner every Sunday. 

On that day he again donned his uniform, and resumed his 
rightful place in society ; and as he was very agreeable and 
well informed, he was feasted and caressed by every one. 
But on Mondays he became again a weaver, and whilst 
passing his time in this alternative, he did not appear dis- 
satisfied with his lot. 

30 



x'^x 



ZT«: '.L'J^ 



. •• ■■ " r 



-sua 



f*n 



3Lrjff T.jr:: 






H 11 















1 'htsselT 






»-l:.^ t i-^a. li^ 



- »^ • ■■■^* a lA^*^ • ■ ■ * ■ 



11. X zsm a jis 



fc I I I I ' L 



3i:c 






I »-».» .•:.':•"- ttI li- li ttvl!! nr'-?^ 5c::5=r ssch. irnrr 



-- * 



*« .. 















St t 






I 



VARIETIES. 



475 



from the neigHbouring mountains, excellent fish from the 
lake of Geneva, all moistened with as much as we liked to 
drink of a cheap white wine, as clear as spring water, which 
would have made a madman drink. 

At the head of the table sat always a canon of the church 
of Notre-Dame in Paris (I hope that he may still be alive), 
who was perfectly at home there, and before whom the waiter 
never failed to place every nice dish of the bill of fare. 

He did me the honour of paying me particular attention, 
and of inviting me to draw near to him and to assist him ; 
but I did not enjoy this advantage long, for I was led away 
by the force of circumstances, and I left for the United 
States, where I found refuge, occupation, and repose. 

Stay in America.* 



A Battle. 

I close this chapter with the narrative of an accident in 
my career, which clearly proves that nothing is certain in 
this world, and that misfortune may overtake us the very 
moment we least expect it 

I was going to France, and after three years' residence 
was leaving the United States, where I had found myself so 
comfortable that, though sorrowing for my departure* I 

* I sappoM oar author meant to iodicate by those six lines of dots 
that he does not wish to say anything about his stay in America. 
Accidentally he has told us some of his adventures there in Meditation 
VI. 38, p. Z08; Mediution XXI. 106, p. 309; Varieties III., "A 
National Victory," p. 436 ; Varieties XIII., '* Gastronomical Industry 
of the £migriM," p. 468 ; and in the following piece, " A Battle."— Ta. 



:'~ii 



X.I - 



•c .. v^-l'-ZZ 



9'^ 






to 



'.n I 



.1 -f. 




/ .'' » 






• . • ^f 4^ »",. rw «ilil U-I irJ AOi. V -ai7i^ iJi^.sU. il .^rA 



VARIETIES. 477 

prised by the low tide, and of taking twice as mticli time to 
arrive at our destination, for flood and tide wait for nobody. 

Hence a good deal of grumbling, and especially by the 
French, whose passions are much more easily roused than 
those of the inhabitants from the other side of the Atlantic 
Not only did I take no part in it, but I scarcely paid any at- 
tention to it, for my heart was full, and I was thinking what 
Fate would have in store for me in France, so that I did not 
very well know what was going on. All at once I heard a 
terrific noise, and I saw that it was caused by Gauthier, who 
had given one of the Americans a box on the ear, powerful 
enough to have knocked down a rhinoceros. 

This act of violence produced a frightful confusion. The 
words '* French" and "American" having been several 
times bandied about, the quarrel became a national one, and 
it was proposed that all Frenchmen should be thrown over- 
board, which would have been a rather difficult business, as 
we were eight against eleven. From my outward appear- 
ance, I seemed the likeliest passenger to resist to the 
utmost this " transbordation ;"* for I am thickset, tall, and 
was then only thirty-nine. No doubt, for this reason, the 
ringleader of the hostile band was sent against me, and 
placed himself right opposite to me in a warlike attitude. 

He was as high as a steeple, and stout in proportion ; but, 
on taking his measure with a look which pierced to his very 
marrow, I saw that he was of a lymphatic temperament, with 
a puffy face, black lustre eyes, a small head, and weak legs. 

Mens non agitat molem, I said to myself; let us see 
what he is made off, and if we must die, we must. So this 
is exactly what I said to him, after the manner of an 
Homeric hera 

' ' Do you think you can bully me,f you infernal rogue I By 

* Another word invented by our author in imitation of the English 
word "transportation," which is diportation in French. — Tk. 

t Our author says in a footnote: "People never say 'thou' in 
English ; and a carter, when plying his horse with the whip, says, ' Go 
on, sir ! go on, sir, I say.' " What polite carters there were in England, 



473 VARIETIES. 

Jove, it will not do, and III throw yon OTerboard like a dead 
cat If I find you too heavy, 1*11 cling to you with hands, 
legs, teeth, nails, everything ; and if I cannot do better, we 
will sink together to the bottom. My life is nothing to send 
such a dog as you to the infernal regions. Come on I " * 

Whilst saying these words, which harmonised no doubt 
with my attitude and action, I felt as strong as Hercules. My 
opponent seemed to shrink an inch in height ; his arms fell, 
and his face became elongated. In a word, he gave such 
evident marks of funk, that one of his countrymen, who had 
no doubt sent him, saw it, and came to interpose. And he 
did right, for my blood was up, and the inhabitant of the 
New World would have felt that those who bathe in the 
Furens(t have well-knit and sinewy frames. 

Meanwhile words of peace had already been heard in 
another part of the ship ; the arrival of the unpunctual pas- 
sengers created a diversion ; and it was necessary to set sail, 
so that, whilst I was still in a boxing attitude, the tumult 
suddenly ceased. 

Things ended even better than I thought, for when every« 
thing was quiet, I went to look for Gauthier to scold him for 
his vivacity, and found him sitting at the same table with the 
man he had slapped in the face, in the presence of a most 
attractive-looking ham and an enormous jug of beer. 

and, I suppose, in America too, in M. Brillat-SaTarin's time, and what a 
pity that all this is changed, but unfortunately not for the better. — Tr. 

* The translator has taken the liberty of slightly altering a couple of 
the strongest and choicest English invectives, which our author uses, to 
prove his perfect knowledge of our language ; some of his specimens of 
the vernacular have also been carelessly printed. M. Brillat-Savarin 
further states : "In all countries under English law a fight is always 
preceded by many words and a good deal of abuse, as they have a say- 
ing, * High words break no bones.' Often also they do not go any 
further, and are careful not to strike a blow, for he who strikes the fixst 
blow breaks the public peace, and will always be condemned to pay a 
fine whatever the result of the fight may be." 

t A clear stream that takes its rise above Ronssillon, passes near 
Belley, and falls into the Rhone above Peyrieux. The trouts caught ia 
it have pink<oloured flesh, while that of the pike is as white as ivory. 



VARIETIES. 479 

XV. 

A BUNDLE OF ASPARAGUS. 

Going through the Palais- Royal on a fine day in the month 
of February, I stopped before the shop of Madame Chevet^ 
the most famous provision warehouse in Paris,* with whom 
always I had been somewhat of a favourite ; and seeing a 
bundle of asparagus, of which the smallest stick was thicker 
than my forefinger, I asked her the price. ''Forty francs, 
sir," she said. "They are certainly very fine; but at that 
price only a king or some prince could eat thenu" — "You 
are wrong ; such choice objects never enter palaces, where 
they merely want what is fine, but not what is magnificent 
For all that, my bundle of asparagus will soon be sold, and 
I'll tell you why : 

"At this very moment there are in this town at least 
three hundred wealthy men, financiers, capitalists, contractors, 
and others, who must stay at home on account of gout, for 
fear of catching cold, by the doctor's orders, and from other 
causes which do not prevent^them from eating ; they sit by 
their fire, puzzling their brains to know what will please 
their palate; and when they are quite fatigued, and that 
without any result, they send their valet on a voyage of dis- 
covery. He comes to my shop, notices those asparagus, 
makes his report, and they are bought at any price. Or, 
perhaps, a pretty, dainty-looking woman is passing with her 
lover, and says to him, ' Ah ! my dear, look at those beauti- 
ful asparagus ! Let us buy them ; you know how well my 
servant makes the sauce.' Now, in such a case, a gentle* 
manly sort of lover never refuses to buy nor haggles. Or, 
again, it is for a wager, a christening, or a sudden rise in 
stocks. . . . How can I know the reason? In a word, 

* We are happy to state that this shop still exists in the Palais-Rojral, 
thouj^h I believe no longer kept by any member of the Cbevet family. 
— Tr. 



L -TL. 



-.-Li 



■ 






., t 



/ ^ 



i 




VARIETIES. 481 

occasion, and used all the resources of the culinary art of that 
time to feast the arrival of the bishop. 

Among the entremets was a %imi^\^ fondue, of which the 
prelate helped himself copiously. But he made a mistake, 
by its appearance took it to be a cream, and surprised 
everybody by eating it with a spoon instead of using a fork, 
which from time immemorial served for such a purpose. 

All the guests, astonished at this eccentricity, cast sidelong 
glances at one another, and smiled almost imperceptibly. 
Nevertheless, respect made every one hold his tongue, for 
it was clear that a bishop, who had just come from Paris, 
would do exactly what was right and proper at table, especi- 
ally on the first day of his arrival. 

But the report got bruited about, and the next day when 
one person met another they asked, "Well, do you know 
how our new bishop ate the fondue yesterday evening?" 
" Oh yes, I know all about it ; he ate it with a spoon. I 
heard it from an eye-witness," and so on. From the town 
the report spread into the country, and in three months the 
whole diocese knew everything about it. 

The most remarkable part of this incident was, that it 
nearly upset the belief of our forefathers ; for some innovators 
took the part of the spoon, but they were very soon forgotten. 
The fork triumphed ; and more than a century after the 
event, one of my great-uncles still made fun of it, and told 
me, laughing loudly and boisterously, how M. de Madot had 
once taXexi fondue with a spoon. 

RECEIPT FOR THE FONDUE. 

Taken from the papers of M, Trolliet, bailli of Mondon, 
in the canton of Berne. 

Take as many eggs as you wish to use, according to the 
number of your guests. 

Then take a lump of good Gniyere cheese, weighing about 
a third of the eggs, and a lump of butter of about half the 
weight of the cheese. 

3P 



I'^l 



\ k I .ITTZiw 



.'r-^V ,»M ^nt :r> .'.e ■'^~z^ ^^'-^ .1:1: 






»«C^a A.*f* « 



n». u:*i or vilh. j- tvnones 



ir. .',r',. r "i ■ ;«■ _r» r :iec:i 






-o. — 



►''>/^ ' 



^ . ^ • A. (l ^*^^* _• 






/■ .'' 



r'i\'*» #'■ T ." ■»a" 



H. t *• - > « ^^ 






-!//'•'. ' #^ ' f :- ; *'""■. i^if '^ "ir^K.? 'hcr:r aeciii .n Heir * 
-, ^•-./ • -. »'n* ^T Ml ".n irr*,»r ".-■»:,;;:-'. 



3"- A 



,'^' / ,^/-,/ •:r 4, ,f .,•▼»-* :^- v»*n -Jie £nt aad lecniiii 



r*,^'* 'vf "/'V -'."''-' '''n, ar.ii w..* ia.ii : ** Mr. Innkesr 



VARIETIES. 483 

and give some refreshments to my maids; but the whole 
must not cost more than six francs, so take your measures 
accordingly." 

As soon as this not very large sum had been mentioned, 
Chicot put on his cap, the landlady went indoors, and the 
daughters returned to their rooms. 

However, the horses were put into the stable, where they 
could read the newspapers, if they liked; the ladies were 
shown a room upstairs, and the maids got some glasses and 
a decanter of very pure water. 

But the stipulated six francs were only received with a 
growl, and as a very slight compensation for the trouble 
caused and for expectations deceived. 



XVIIL 

MARVELLOUS EFFECTS OF A CLASSICAL 

DINNER. 

'* Alas, how I am to be pitied/' exclaimed, in an elegiac tone, 
a gastronomer, who was a member of the Royal Court of 
Justice in the department of the Seine. " I thought I should 
soon return to my estate, and left my cook there ; but business 
detains me in Paris, and I have to rely on the dishes pre* 
pared for me by an old woman whose cookery makes me 
sick. My wife is satisfied with anything, my children as yet 
understand nothing at all about it; the cooked meat is 
underdone, and the roast meat burnt Alas I both the spit 
and the saucepan kill me ! " 

Whilst uttering these words he crossed with a sorrowful 
gait the place Dauphine in Paris. Happily for the public 
weal the professor heard these well-foundedxomplaints, and 
recognised a friend in the grumbler. ** You shall not die, my 
dear fellow," he said, in an affectionate tone to the martyrised 
magistrate. " No, you shall not die of an evil for which I 
can offer you a remedy. Do me the honour and accept for 



4^4 T^aiznEi. 



3iar.n#^ *.:at ^r/^ryvvir ▼ 11 mrn-^ iirnvf. and. — 

^w* • » 



x::c 

EFFEITS A! 'I; LAX 1-Z?^ CF STS^ZN" 



ar.ri TT '».!•. T. rv. :.r*ri i'/'.nij^ irjiiij ZJ x Txur. rr . ttrxir j w . nr^ . 
':j^Xjr,rT.i^ .n t.mt k. ^ir-snic ar.ii v. hac.nal l^aT these wi^: 

w '.v^t;:: 'ii^.r.<T x cr^ji, ar^i iia-^^e jO Jeave t'lt^vr bed. u 

pr'.^r./iny w.:h o^r'Ji.n'y :ha: wiiea. anj ccc bos gme sc Lar 
ir,-* r.aa r^y fwo 7*a.'\ E'-rc •... I-t-e. 

J-y^me *..r.i* a^o I 'rirtl-i': .n i£ .l-osxf w.:i x rJci uei J.x=: 
rf f/ir.'z ;;, w.'.-v f''-r f-.'-j jean h.i.i been ijic head cf liie ferat 

k % »* k *• ^ « ^v^ *•* ••« «^ • -^ •W * ^* ^'^ iA^A ^ •*^-Jw 

*' .-,..', ' la.': :..:% patririh :o r-.*, -n.borfy in Frxzce €«eu 
ir.ar^ir.^ '..'^w im-.crtint '.he bi-^ineis b wc ccciicuc fir: a 
fi'.'.*T 'o iT/f*, for ir.c.rc tr^n a ctr.rurr, I hxrc stscied cxre- 
f-.ijr :he workrr^tn mh/k come to my plicc ; and when they 
w.'.'/.Iy g^i'#c tr.ern*elTe* Lp to ti.e.r pa^ai^^D for strong drinks^ 
but ioft c/ymmoa aro'^>n~5t the Germans, they all end very 
iruch in t;.e same manner. 

♦ .See Med.ut 00 VI 1 1. 49f " IfMertat Varieties of Taint," p. 171.— T«. 



VARIETIES. 485 

'* At first they only take a little glass of brandy eveiy morn- 
ing, and for many years this satisfies them, for this habit is 
common enough among all workmen, and any one who does 
not take it would be laughed at by his companions ; then 
they double the dose, that is to say, they take a little glass 
every morning and another towards noon. Thus things go 
on for abeut two or three years ; then they begin to drink it 
regularly, every morning, noon, and night Soon they take 
it at every hour of the day, and only like the brandy with a 
little cloves in it. When they have come to that state they 
will certainly, and at the most, not live six months ; they are 
dried up, they get a fever, they go into the hospital, and are 
never seen again." 



XX. 

CHEVALIERS AND ABBtS. 

I have already twice referred to these two classes of 
gourmands now no longer in existence.* 

Inasmuch as they have disappeared for more than thirty 
years, the greater part of the present generation has never 
seen them. 

They will probably reappear towards the end of this 
century; but as such an event requires the coincidence of 
many future contingencies, I imagine that very few persons, 
now alive, will ever witness this regeneration. Therefore, as 
a painter of manners, I give them a final touch of my brush, 
and, to do so the easier, borrow the following passage from 
an author who never refuses me anything :t 

'* Regularly and usually the title of chevalier should only 
have been given to persons decorated with an order, or to 
younger sons of the aristocracy ; but many of those chevaliers 

*See Meditation XII. 67, p. ai8, and "Varietiei" VIII., '*Tht 
Plot," p. 4sa— Tk. 

t This author it M. Brillat-Savarin himself, and tht passage is bor- 
rowed firom his EtsaiMsUrique sur U Duel, pnWithcd in tSx^-^Ta. 



' * -^ ■-■--.— 



t^r 



^ ^ 






.J*- jiw, 



>^r 






* 5 -..' .i* 



■ I 1^ I ■•■ 






i-S- zr 






VARIETIES. 487 

by obtaining simple benefices, which defrayed the expenses 
of his education, and afterwards he became prince, com- 
mendatory <ibM^ or bishop, according as he felt more or 
less inclined for the apostolate. 

This was the legitimate type of abbis, but there were 
imitation ones, and many young fellows who had some means, 
and did not like to run the risk of the title of chevalier, called 
themselves abbh when coming to Paris. 

Nothing was easier; with a slight modification in the dress 
a professional appearance was at once obtained, then they 
looked the equals of every one in society, and were invited 
everywhere, caressed, run after, for there was no house 
without its abb^. 

The tibbes were short, thick-set, plump, well dressed, 
cajoling, very polite, inquisitive, gourmands^ alert, insinuate 
ing ; those who are still in existence have become corpulent 
and very pious. 

There was no happier lot on this earth than that of a rich 
prior or commendatory abb^; they were of some import- 
ance, had money, no superiors, and nothing to do. 

The chevaliers will reappear, if peace last for a long time, 
as we trust ; but, unless there be a great change in the 
ecclesiastical administration, the race of abbJs is lost for ever. 
"Sinecures" no longer exist, and people have reverted to 
the first principles of the Church, bene/lcium propter 
officium, 

XXI. 

MISCELLANEA. 

"Mr. Counsellor,"* asked one day an old marchioness of 
the Faubourg Saint-Germain,t from one end of the table to 
the other, '* which do you like best. Burgundy or Bordeaux ?'' 

* Se« M. Monselet's Preface, p. 3. 

t In this Faubourg used to live, and even live now, some of the most 
arisiocratic families of France. — Tk. 



488 VARtEtlES. 

** That, my lady/' replied, in an oracular tone, the magistrate 
to whom this question was addressed, " is a trial in which I 
am 80 delighted to examine both sides, that I always adjoam 
for a week the pronouncing of the verdict** 



At the table of a gentleman living in the Chauss^e-d*Antin 
was served up an Aries sausage of an enormous size. " Will 
you accept a slice ? " the host asked a lady who was sitting 
next him ; "you see it has come from the right factory." 
— ** It is really very large," said the lady, casting on it a 
roguish glance ; '* what a pity it is unlike anything." 



It is only intelligent men, especially, who hold gourman- 
dise in honour ; other men are incapable of an operation 
consisting of a series of appreciations and jtidgments. 



The Countess of Genlis * boasts in her Memoirs of having 
taught a German lady, who had been very attentive to her, 
the way to prepare as many as seven different delicious dishes. 



It was the Count de Laplace t who discovered a very 
elegant way of eating strawberries, namely, of squeezing over 
them the juice of a sweet orange, or apple of the Hes- 
peride?.J 

Another scientific roan has improved on the first by addin^^ 
the rind of an orange, which he rubs off with a lump of 
sugar; and he pretends to prove by means of a scrap 

* Felicittf Ducrest, Countess de Genlis (1746-1830), a well-knovrn 
female author of numberless novels and other work?, now completely 
and deservedly forgotten. — Tr. 

t See Meditation VI., p. 145. — Tr. 

\ The Hespcrides were three sisters who guarded the golden a.pp1tr<; 
which Juno received as a marriage gift ; hence the place where tlkO:»e 
apples grow is sometimes called after them.— Tr. 



. . -' , 



..■i / 









L'l 



VARIETIES. 489 

preserved from the flames which destroyed the library of 
Alexandria,* that strawberries were served up prepared in a 
similar way at the banquets of Mount Ida.t 



"I have no very great opinion of that gentleman," 

said Count M , speaking of a candidate who had just 

been appointed to a certain place ; ** he has never eaten a 
sausage d la HichelUUf and does not know mutton chops 
a la Smbise:' % 

A man who was fond of wine was offered some grapes at 
dessert after dinner. "Much obliged," said he, pushing 
the plate aside ; " I am not accustomed to take my wine in 
pilU." 

A connoisseur of gastronomy was congratulated on his 
appointment as director of indirect contributions at Peri- 
gueux : and, above all, in the pleasure there would be in 
living in the midst of good cheer, in the country of truffles, 
partridges, truffled turkeys, and so forth. '' Alas ! " replied 
with a sigh the sad gastronomer, '*can one really live at all 
in a country where is no fresh sea-fish ? " 



i^^-,^ XXII. 

P^'""''^ A DAY WITH THE BERNARDINES. 

About the year 1782, and about one o'clock on a fine 

^Cr.^ty^" summer's night, we started, but not without having first 

,}j ] .:i^' given a rather loud serenade to the fair in whom we were 

^ ; ^ happy enough to take an interest. 

^ f( ^-^ * The library of Alexandria, founded by the Ptolemies, is said to 

^' ^^ have been burned by order of the Caliph Omar in the year 641.— Tr. 

^ t On Mount Ida, in Asia Minor, the gods, according to the Mytho- 



logy, used to feast. — Tr. 
iv r- t See Meditation XVII. 134, p. 377, note. — Tr 

''^»^' 3 Q 



490 VARIETIES. 

We left Belley to go to Saint Sulpice, a Bemaidine Abbey,* 
on one of the highest mountains of the district, at least five 

thousand feet above the level of the sea. 

I was then the leader of a troop of amateur musicians, all 
jolly good fellows, and all well provided with those Tirtnes 
which accompany youth and health. 

**Sir," the Abbot of Saint Sulpice said to me one day 
after dinner, whilst taking me in a comer by the window, 
"it would be a great kindness if you and your friends were 
to come and give us a little music on Saint Bernard's 
day, for the saint will receive greater honour, our neigh- 
bours will be delighted, and you will have the honour of 
being tlie first Orpheusesf penetrating into these lofty 
regions." 

I would not alloi^ him to repeat his request, which 
promised an agreeable holiday ; so I nodded my head 
affirmatively, and the room shook. 

Annuit, et totum nutu trtmefecit Olympum.X 

AH our precautions were taken beforehand, and we left 
early, because we had four leagues to go by roads capable of 
frightening even those audacious travellers who have climbed 
the heights of the lofty Butte Montmartre.§ 

The monastery was built in a valley closed to the west by 

* The P.ernardine monks are so-called after Saint Bernard (1091- 
1153), who reformed the order of the Cistercians, and became the fLrst 
abbot of I he monastery of Clairvatix. — Tr. 

t Orphcds, a Thracian poet of such excellence that, when his wife 
Eurydicc died, and went to the nether world, he so charmed King 
Pluto that she was released from death, on the condition that her 
huhband would not look back till he had returned to earth ; but he took 
one partipi; RJancc, before leaving Hades, and his wife vanished in- 
stantly, according to Greek mythology. — Tr. 

} " He nodded, and made the ^hole of Olympus tremble with a 
nod," a line from the A'lneid. — Tr. 

§ The liutte Montmartre is a small hill near Paris, somewhat 
like Notting Hill, Denmark Hill, or Primrose Hill iu LoDdoa. — 
Tr. 



■1 



VARIETIES. 49 1 

the summit of the mountain, and on the east by a hill not 
quite so lofty. 

The western peak was crowned by a forest of fir-trees so 
dense that during one storm on one day there were blown 
down thirty-seven thousand.* The bottom of the valley was 
occupied by a vast meadow, intersected by bushes of beech 
trees, which formed various irregular compartments, models 
on a large scale of those small English gardens which we 
like so much. 

Arriving at daybreak, we were received by the fatlier- 
cellarer, who had a quadrangular (ace and a nose like an 
obelisk. 

" Welcome, gentlemen," said the good father, " welcome ; 
our reverend abbot will be very pleased when he hears 
you have arrived. He is still in bed, for yesterday he was 
very much fatigued ; but if you will come with me, you will 
see that you were expected." 

After having uttered these words, he walked on, and we 
followed him, supposing correctly that he would lead us 
towards the refectory. 

There all our senses were delighted on beholding a most 
tempting breakfast, a really classical meal. 

In the centre of a spacious table rose a pasty as large as a 
church, flanked on the north by a quarter of cold veal, on the 
south by an enormous ham, on the east by a monumental 
pile of butter, and on the west by an enormous dish of arti> 
chokes, with a hot sauce. 

We saw, besides, various torts of fruits, plates, napkins, 
knives, and silver spoons and forks in baskets, and at the 
end of the table, the lay brothers and servants ready to wait 
upon us, though astonished to find themselves up so early. 

In one corner of the refectory we beheld a pile of more 
than a hundred bottles continually cooled by a natural foun* 

* The administration of the streams and forests counted them and 
sold them, and commerce and the monks alike profited by it ; a large 
capital was put into drctdation, and nobody complained of the stonn. 



492 VARIETIES. 

tain, which rippled out, mnnnaring Evoke Bacchc^ And if 
the smell of the Mocha did not tickle oor nostrils, it was be- 
cause in those heroic times coffee was not jet taken so early. 

The reverend cellarer enjojed for a short time our astonisb> 
ment, and then addressed to us the following allocation, 
which in our wisdom we thought had been prepared before- 
hand : 

" Gentlemen, I should have been very glad to have kept 
you company, but I have not yet said my mass ; and to-day 
is a double of the first class. I have no need to wish yon a 
good appetite, for I imagine your age, the voyage, and the 
sharp air of our mountains will have given you one. Accept, 
therefore, with pleasure what we offer yoa with all our heart. 
I must leave you to sing my matins." 

Whilst saying these words he disappeared. 

Now was the moment for action, and we attacked with an 
energy which really seemed produced by the three aggravat- 
ing circumstances so distinctly mentioned by the cellarer. 
But what could feeble children of Adam do against a repast 
seemingly prepared for the inhabitants of SiriQS.t Onr 
efforts were powerless, and, although fully crammed, we only 
left imperceptible traces of our passage. 

Thus provided until dinner-time, we broke up ; and I went 
to lie down in a good bed, where I slept whilst waiting for 
mass, like the hero of Rocroy,t and other heroes who slept 
until the battle was to begin. I was woke up by a robust 
brother, who nearly tore my arm off, and I hastened to church, 
where I found everybody at his post* 

At the offertory we performed a symphony, and sang a 
motet at the elevation, finishing with a quartett of wind 



* K 



Long live Bacchus,** the cry of the priestesses of Baodias at the 
festivals held in honour of this god, and distinguished for their Ucentioos- 
ness and debauchery. — Tr. 

t The inhabitants of Sirius or the Dogstar were supposed to be gremt 
eaters. — ^Tr. 

t llie battle of Rocroy in the Ardennes was fought against the 
Spaniards, May ig^ 2643, and won by Cond^, then dukt of Eoghien.— Tr. 



VARIETIES. 493 

instraments. And in spite of the jokes made about amateur 
music, truth obliges me to say that we did it very well. 

I take this opportunity to remark that all such persons who 
are never pleased with anything are really always ignorant 
people, who only state their opinions boldly because they 
hope their audacity may lead others to believe they possess 
a knowledge they never had the courage to acquire. 

We received with becoming modesty the praises lavished 
on us on this occasion, and after having received the thanks 
of the abbot, we sat down to dinner. 

It was served in the style of the fifteenth century ; there 
were few side-dishes, few superfluities ; but an excellent 
choice of meats, simple and substantial stews, everything 
well cooked and perfectly roasted, and above all, vegetables 
of a flavour unknown in the marshy valleys, prevented us 
from wishing for anything we did not see. 

As a sample of the abundance which reigned in this excel- 
lent monastery, I'll simply state that during the second course 
were served up fourteen difTerent dishes of roast meat. 

The dessert was so much the more remarkable as it was 
partly composed of fruits which do not grow on the moun- 
tains, and which had been brought from the low countries ; 
for the gardens of Machuraz, la Morflent, Viu, Champagne, 
and other places favoured by the sun, the generator of heat, 
had been laid under contribution. 

Liqueurs were not lacking; but the coffee especially 
deserves mention. It was as clear as crystal, aromatic, and 
wonderfully hot ; but, above all, it was not handed round in 
those wretched vessels called cups on the left banks of 
the Seine, but in beautiful and capacious bowls, into which 
the thick lips of the reverend fathers plunged, engnlphing 
the refreshing beverage with a noise that would have done 
honour to sperm-whales before a storm. 

After dinner we went to vespers, and we performed, be- 
tween the psalms, some antiphons which I had composed 
for this occasion. It was ordinary music, such as was sung 



494 VAJUETIES. 

at that time, and I neitlier praise nor blame it^ for fear of 
being detaiDcd bj modesty, or infiuenced bj beir^ the frther 
of iL 

The senrioe for the day being thus ended, some of the 
neigfabouis be^iran to go away, and others to form amoi^ 
themselves small card parties. 

As for me, I liked walking better, and went with semal 
of my friends to tread that soft and dose tnrf worth all the 
carpets of the Saronnerie manufacture,* and to inhale that 
pare air which refreshes the mind and disposes the imagina- 
tion to meditation and to romanticisnLf 

It was late when we entered again the monastery. The 
abbot came to me to wish me a good evening and a good 
night's rest ; then he said : " I am going to my room, and let 
you finish the evening ; not because I think that my pre- 
sence would be irksome to the brethren, but I wish them to 
know they can have full liberty. It is not every day Saint 
Bernard's day. To-morrow everything will be as orderly as 
usual : Cras iterabimus aquor. 

In fact, after the departure of the abbot the company 
became more gay and lively, and more of those jokes were 
told peculiar to monasteries, which do not mean much, 
and at which every one laughs without knowing why. 

About nine o'clock supper was served, a supper carefully 
and delicately prepared, and several centuries in advance of 
the dinner. 

We began to eat again ; we chatted, laughed, sung some 
songs, and one of the fathers read us some verses he had 
made, which really were not so very bad for a shaveling. 

Towards the close of the evening, some one called aloud, 

• La SoT'onnene, a government carpet-manufactory at Chaillot, bc" 
came united in 1662 to the celebrated manufactory of the Gobelins 
still in existence. — Tr. 

t I have constantly noticed this effect under the very same circum- 
stances, and I am led to believe that the lightness of the air in the 
mountains allows certain powers of the brain to act which are d( 
in the plains by heaviness. 



-i 



VARIETIES. 495 

"Father cellarer, where is your dish ? "—"Quite right," re- 
plied the father, " I am not cellarer for nothing." 

He left the room for a moment, and came back soon, 
accompanied by three servants, one carrying a quantity of 
excellent buttered toast, and the other two laden with a 
table on which there was a bowl of burnt brandy and sugar, 
almost as good as punch, which was as yet unknown. 

The new comers were received with acclamation; the 
toast was all eaten, the burnt brandy drunk, and as the 
Abbey clock struck midnight, each of us returned to his 
room to enjoy that delicious sleep to which the labours of 
the day had inclined and entitled him. 

The father cellarer, mentioned in this really true narr^* 
tive, became very old, and they spoke before him of a newly* 
appointed abbot from Paris, whose severity was dreaded. 
" My mind is quite easy about him,'* said the reverend 
father. " Let him be as terrible as he likes, he will never 
have the courage to drive away an old man from the comer 
of the hearth, nor take away the key of the cellar." 



XXIII. 

HAPPINESS ON A JOURNEY. 

One day, mounted on my good horse. La Joie, I was riding 
over the pleasant slopes of the Jura. 

It was in the worst days of the Revolution, and I was on 
my way to Dole* to see the representative Prot, and to ob- 
tain from him a safe conduct, which might prevent my being 
put into prison, and probably afterwards guillotined. 

On arriving, about seven o'clock in the morning, at an inn 
in the little hamlet or village of Mont-sous-Vaudrey,I first of 
all looked after my horse's comfort, and then went into the 

* One of the oldest towns of the department of the Jurm* which u 
bordering oo that of the Ain, where our author was bom.— Ta. 



49^ VARIETIES. 

I 

kitchen, where a spectacle met my gaze which no traTeUer 
can behold without a feeling of pleasure. 

Before a bright and brilliant fire a spit was turning, admir- 
ably furnished with various kinds of quails, and those little 
corn-crakes with green feet that are alwajrs so fat That 
choice game was dropping its gravy on an enormous piece 
of toast evidently prepared by a sportsman ; and close by I 
saw already roasted one of those very plump leverets, un- 
known to Parisians, the perfume of which would fill a whole 
church. 

"That's all right,** I said to myself, cheered at the sight. 
" Providence does not altogether abandon me. Let us pluck 
this flower as we go along, for there will always be time 
enough left to die in.'* 

Whilst I had been looking round the kitchen, the landlord, 
whistling, and his hands behind his back, was walking his 
gigantic size to and fro. I said to him, " My dear fellow, 
what good thing are you going to give me for my dinner?" 
" Nothing but good things, sir ; good boiled beef, good potato 
soup, a good shoulder of mutton, and good haricots.** 

At this unlooked-for reply a shiver of disappointment 
went through my whole system. Everybody knows that I 
never eat boiled beef, because it is the meat without the 
gravy. Potatoes and haricots generate fat,* and I have not 
got teeth of iron to tear asunder a shoulder of mutton. That 
bill of fare must have been prepared especially to annoy me, 
and I felt again overwhelmed by my misfortunes. 

The landlord cast on me a sly glance, and seemed to guess 
why I looked so disappointed. " For whom are you keeping 
all that nice game ? *' I asked with a dissatisfied air. " Alas ! 
sir," he replied, in a sympathetic tone, "I cannot dispose 
of it ; it all belongs to some gentlemen of the law, who 
have been engaged ten days as legal experts for a very 
rich lady. They finished their business yesterday, and are 
having a treat to celebrate so happy an event.'* — "Sir," I 

"* The author this time creates the barbarous word oUs£^^>u,—'Tm» 



VARIETIES. 497 

said, after having thought for a few minutes, "Be kind 
enough to tell those gentlemen that a decent person asks the 
favour of being allowed to dine with them, that he will pay 
his share of the bill, and be very much obliged to them.'* 
He went away, but did not come back. 

Soon after, a little man, corpulent, ruddy, chubby, thick-set, 
and sprightly, came in, and roamed about the kitchen, dis- 
placed certain articles, lifted the cover of a stewpan, and 
vanished. 

" Good," I said to myself; "that is the brother tyler who 
comes to look at me/' And hope revived again, for I knew, 
from experience, that I am not repulsive looking. 

My heart, nevertheless, was beating like a candidate's at 
the end of a scrutiny of the ballot, when the landlord came 
to tell me that those gentlemen were highly flattered by my 
proposal, and only waited for me to sit down to dinner. 

I went away jauntily, received the most flattering welcome, 
and after a few minutes felt like one of them. What a splen- 
did dinner we had ! I do not give the details, but I ought 
to make honourable mention of an elaborate fricassee of 
chicken, such as is only to be found in the country, and 
so richly dowered with truflles that there would have been 
enough to renew the vigour of old Tithonus.* 

We know already what the roast was ; it tasted as well as 
it looked, and was done to a turn ; and the difficulty I had 
had in getting at it made me appreciate the task the better. 

The dessert consisted of a vanilla cream, some choice 
cheese, and excellent fruit ; and we washed it all down first 
with a light reddish-coloured wine, then with Hermitage, 
and afterwards with some luscious and generous straw- 
coloured wine. The whole was crowned by some very good 
coflee, prepared by the sprightly tyler, who was also polite 

* Tithonus, the son of Laomedon, King of Troy, was so handsome 
that Aurora fell in love with him ; Jupiter made him immortal at her re- 
quest, but as she forgot a' so to ask for eternal youth for him, he became 
decrepit and ugly, and Aurora changed him into a grasshopper. — Tk. 

3R 



49S VAIQETIES. 

enough to provide as with certain liqueurs of Verdun, which 
he took out of x sort of tabernacle, of which he had the key. 

The dinner was not only verT good, but it was very merry. 

After having dijcussed passing events with some cir- 
cumspection, those gentlemen began cracking jokes with 
one another^ which told me part of their biography ; they 
hirdly mentioned the business that had brought them to- 
gether, but some good stories were told, and some songs 
were sung. I gare them a few couplets that had never been 
published, and I actually composed an impromptu, which 
was, of course, much arplauded. Here it is : — 

Air or thi^ MartwMl/tmMmt. 

How sweet, as through the world we pass, 
To lind good folk who lo\-e their glass ! 
.Vh ! tis A blessing. 1 declare. 

Surrounded by such men as these. 

In Utes warm inn 1 take my ease, 
.Anvi pwiss w'.thoui A single care 

Mv lime ; and stay 

An hour, a day. 
Four da>s. a N»eek, a month, a year. 
And llunk me blest for such good cheer. 

If I give here this couplet, it is not because I think it is 
excellent. Thank Heaven I have written better ones, 
and I could hare improved that one if I liked, but I pre- 
fer revi to leave it as an impromptu, so that the reader will 
admit that any man who, with a Revolutionary Committee 
dOj^ging his steps, could thus amuse himself, undoubtedly 
possessed the head and the heart of a Frenchman. 

\Ve had alrcadv been four hours at dinner, and we were 
beginninj; to consider how we could best finish the evening ; 
it was sui;i^ested that we should take a long walk to aid 
digestion, and that after that we should play a game of 
cards whilst waiting for supper, which would be of a dish of 
trout kept in reserve, and the remains of the dinner still 
very preser. table. 



VARIETIES. 499 

I was obliged to refuse all these proposals; the going 
down of the sun on the horizon warned me that it was time 
to leave, but those gentlemen insisted, as politely as possible, 
on my remaining with them, and only gave way when I 
assured them that I was not altogether travelling for my 
own pleasure. 

It may easily be imagined that they would not allow 
me to pay my share; and then, without asking me any 
troublesome questions, they all accompanied me to the door 
to see me start, and we bade each other farewell in a most 
affectionate manner. 

Should any one of those who received me so well still 
live, and should this record fall into their hands, I would 
have them to know that after more than thirty years I write 
these words with the most heartfelt gratitude. 

Luck never comes single, and my voyage had a success I 
had almost not expected. 

I found on reaching D61e the representative Pr6t strongly 
prejudiced against me ; he looked at me ominously, and 
I thought that I was going to be arrested ; but I got off 
only with the fear, and after some explanation, it appeared 
to me that his features softened somewhat. 

I am not one of those persons who are rendered cruel by 
fear, and I think that M. Prot was not exactly a bad man ; 
but he was not very intelligent, and did not know how to 
employ the formidable power put in his hands ; he was like 
a child armed with the club of Hercules. 

M. Amondru, whose name I have much pleasure in men- 
tioning, had really some considerable difficulty in getting 
him to accept an invitation to supper where I should meet 
him. However he came, and received me in a far from 
satisfactory manner. 

I was a little better received by Madame Prdt, to whom I 
went to pay my respects ; for the circumstances under which 
I presented myself interested at least her feelings of curiosity. 

The first words she said were to ask me if I loved music. 



. ^ ^x. :& :j:: z-^^^cii x -cr -^ir amsaoaiiy our heazts beal 
t • ^-i --a n-ii •CT' TTJsiesr. 

\c ^^*c"« Jt -rr sSL "=r. i^j. we dlacissed evczjiLhing^ 

V*- . > ;: <- v^ -." ^c J rrsiiscs 3n Tins^ni compostic':, 

^%"« ■;• -^ -c^ ^- »>«; :»j -Eti "I :he sicst l^Lshiocah^e 

•x'-ta^ '..- rrc "s. "r rmjT' : ~ae irnmed ihc best -known 

^i •» ^ .j« -^T!! r,>c M uiisiL i^iie went en tnikirg, 

^ , u.' -v. - " - 'C -— - s=^ say Jce wua whom she coold 

«" ^r'-*?! :r 'S^-.:-! i -*:.■ =»-::u Jcx see n^ksti as xa 

. .^ '.•-•-.- r-Lr-rtLT'i^ -.:e izxi jctrn x singia^ m-stn 

\ .• >^ -' -Ci ^1. -r -^urc jt er mii^ic-bccks. Sae 

^ V. -^ -^ «? ""i^"-: - ■:t«-'=r ised mj w:;ce to greater 

A*.' ^jr. ;.'•. * s:*rr ^- v=u. X ai^.rc X- Ptoc had 

?»..". «<»c -Si -.rtt"^ >t-u. le -vrs *^^=^ ^'Jt ^^ lock do 

*• . or i ... «.r. «t; i — ^ ^'^n^ a ^rami stjie the daet&raat 

• • • 

* X'- V Vs^ ^« ^. "1. -.- r :-< n>»iC xotrn aer .eairng^. 

*\ c * %. \ r* >i: *■«: sl .n? n-.'nns: jt 7arrac» MxdarBc 

'•• ; >t . \" ttv. * .^ . «rr. i iL^i VIC r^i^i^ares lie £xie arts 

>. ■ ^ •:: .> -x .s.^?«^ Tv .. r«*ri'- i*;s^ ~-anrrTiL I knew yc«i 

.•v >-v •. s. '-v* u-'-r r^n "n** a>i:!caibi: ic vn'1 be 

vv » > « '^v' -v ~ -e ▼ a. ' 
v^ v ^ .'-.. « .'.N» ^- ^"".rrsv.i T.C ^ ^<- I kssed ber 
tv .-« « • " c> :-.** . i-r^ r:s T.i'tr Tm-r-T.rr^ I rrc^aTeii 
«•■ >^ v"*.' . .- .. '-^■..*:. i-T . n..c^. : .Tiscl'v sex^etL 

.^ *v . ^ V ■ *. r c:-rt:" •is rjir.rniT.-jsce'i- I re* 




VARIETIES. 501 

XXIV. 
POETRY. 

My lord, if what Cratinus says be right. 
Those verses cannot live, those lines delight, 
Which water-drinkers pen : in vain they write. 
For e'er since Bacchus did on wild design. 
With Fauns and Satyrs half*mad poets join, 
The Muses every morning, smelt of wine. 
From Homer's praise his love of wine appears. 
And Ennius never dared to write of wars, 
Till heated well ; let sober dotards choose 
The plodding law but never tempt a muse ; 
This law once made, the poets straight begin. 
They drink all night, all day they smelt of wine. 
— Horace, trans, by Creech, Epistle i. 19^ 

If I had had time enough, I should have made a careful 
selection of Gastronomical poetry, from the days of the 
Greeks and Latins to our own time, and I would have 
arranged it in historical epochs, to show the intimate con- 
nection which has always existed between the arts of speak- 
ing well and of eating well. 

What I have not done, another will do. * We shall then 
see how the table has always controlled the lyre, and we 
will have an additional proof of the influence of physics on 
morals. 

Until the middle of the eighteenth century, poetry of such 
a kind was especially intended to glorify Bacchus and his 
gifts, because to drink wine and to drink much was the 
highest degree of taste any one could obtain at that time. 
Nevertheless, to break the monotony, and to enlarge the 
poetic arena. Love was associated with Bacchus, an associa- 
tion which undoubtedly did not always benefit Love. 

* This, if I am not mistaken, is the third work I leave to my fel- 
low-workmen in the fields of Gastronomy to write : i*. A Monograph 
on Corpulence ; a*. Theoretical and Practical Treatise of Halts of a 
Shooting Party ; 3*. A Chronological Collection of Gastronomical Poetry. 



• -^ • "y^ 










I riiC —JL.- --Ten »':rt-r«= -b-JI li':ccr ia that ponioa of 

-1* z.i'LLs ":t -zi^icz,-:z^ iz nTrcrfcrs a scull c cosher of 
I 111. re jirtit-r i-irss. i^trctfi becizse I lie ihem, asd 



> rtik 13 "r-x^ IT :rT-.--r to £=.i oct the rcosoa of my 



-a» 



:? riLx:»rH.\jLi:5 at the b.o»^vet of dixias. 

This sc~^ U tikss fr-"a the l',-iz^f cf tke Youn^ Ana- 

:\zr:i:^'*' ari ti-i 5t2.:en:en: will be suisc.en: for my readers : 

•■ Let U5 tr.':iJL, a=d 5:=^ of Bacch-is ! 

* T-e E-i:::*- aui I>:::d^ break 'aist on bread, batter, fesb, hAm. and 
«2J?*. ar. i vcar:^ y i-zrjs. anjrth--.^ e'.*e b-zt tea. 

♦ T-.e TT^as .-iary tr«Te^i ;t Grer-re ^f Ar.archar^is * yviting S>thian, 
•T.iien by Lr.e a>>f. Jca:;-Jic^-c» Banr.c.eay (i 7 16-1795). — Tb. 



VARIETIES. 503 

He delights in our dances, he delights in our songs ; he 
silences envy, hatred, and sorrow. He gave birth to the 
seductive Graces, to enchanting Loves : 

Let us love and drink, and sing of Bacchus i 

The future does not yet exist, the present soon will be no 
more ; the moment of our enjoyment is the only moment 
we live : 

Let us love and drink, and sing of Bacchus ! " 

Wise through our follies, rich through our pleasures, let 
us trample under foot the world and its vain greatness, and 
in the soft intoxication that such happy moments bring into 
our souls : 

' ' Let us drink, and sing of Bacchus ! " 

This one is by Motin,* who, it is said, was the first poet 
in France who wrote drinking songs ; it breathes the true 
spirit of intoxication, and does not lack nerve : — 

I like, I own, a public-house, 
For there I care for none a louse 1 
What place is like the place I prize ? 

Where I have all which makes life dear, 
Where common wipers in my eyes, 

The finest Holland web appear. 

When summer heats my world invade, 
And I can find no whispering shade. 
How fresh its parlour seems and cool. 

Its flaming fagots can afford, 
To me more joys in time of yule. 

Than all the forests of my Lord. 

* Very little is known of Pierre Motin, who flourished in the sixteenth 
century, and died about 1615. Nearly all his poems, which have never 
been published in a volume, are to be found in the collections of that 
time. Boileau sneers at Motin's poems in the fourth soog of hin 
Art Po^tique^ and says that they freeze and chill their reader*; we 
think, on the contrary, they are rather *' warm.'*— Tr. 



T4jt: 



• lU 



JLZJI -^rr 



"« • ** "•'TT* iT "W"*"^ ^5 ^rM ..I 



N - I": r" r i»? I."" i ZM Fire. 



Azd. 5T»:r: "WJI -wz.xz zi *=e "^ '^^^ ft*""^ 



I sn— I e ••-•er: I •% . z.ji iji-nrce: 

y.2.r :he c:oi wr-Te •» z.c ard ibe red. 
Tz i-i* -~T r ♦'•::> b^ :'-". ".: -th ; 

Tie "sk r . - trey re<t :•: irr. :t, 
Fcr I ihill 5 jcn e;ect ih.rr. b»::h, 

L'n'.'-ss trey car, lik* :r.r:7Lii u-jT^re. 

Th* follow ir^ piece U ": y RAccr,* ne of oar ancient poets; 
i: is f'j'.l of chcrm ar.-i T:r^i'.c-i-:^rhv : has served as m model 
f r mcT.y others, zni c.r pears to be younger than its baptismal 
cert.fxate : — 



• Honoral de F-u-iil. Marquis de Racan (i5S,3-i67o\ a pupU of MaJ- 
hcrbr, it chiefly known by tus pastoral Us Bcr^emsi he also wrote 
v^mc religious poetry- — ^*» 



VARIETIES. 505 

TO MAYNARD.* 

Why take such trouble, toil, and pain, 
Oh let us drink and drink again 
Of these delicious wines, which vie 
With nectar, or perhaps exceed 
In flavour those which Ganymede 
Pours in the cup of Gods on high. 

'Tis drink, which makes the years go by, 
And swifter than our short days fly ; 
'Tis drink which makes us young again, 
Which banishes from our sad heart 
All past regret, all sorrows smart. 
All present toil, all future pain. 

Then drink, Maynard, and fill your glass. 
Insensibly the swift hours pass 
And lead us softly to our urn. 
What prayer may avail ? what tears 
For us, or will our vanished years. 
Till rivers backward iiow, return ? 

The spring, so quaintly clad in green. 
Soon puts to flight the cold I ween, 
And calmly ebbs and flows the main ; 
But when our youth is gone and hour. 
Old age contracts our limbs no more, 
Will Time bring back our youth again ? 

The iron laws of death allot 

One fate to palace and to cot, 

Old reed-thatched huts lie side by side 

With ruined fanes. The Fates enthral 

Both poor and king. The threads of all 

One pair of scissors must divide. 

Those hands which all the world deface 
Will ravish in but little space, 

* . Francois Maynard (i58a-x646)t a lawyer, was another poetical pupil 
of Malherbe.— Tr. 

3S 



^t Airrt. \ ?wr dnn*^. m\ tnnid, with mc, 

X ■-"*.. ,* : •*: V mM:c:v to*, anc TulL 

■^ -- n, » ^ •^> :^, r.'- »*.-st<fr himself, who hss also set it 

• v\.>v^ ' v.. : t> f^^n *.*tr mcnrvcnience of having ihe 
1^-..^^ . • -^v,. r. vv .;;^s:-rv». n^ iht pJr5:>ure he shoaid 
". -"v v' -i '",-.' V • v.^"^* vu ~* •:^*»aT^»>s : biDl, by an an- 

• -,->i,% . >^ ^v ,\ ^-,vv ;i-,Sk. i: csir. ^c sun^, and it m-iii be 



1 . ■» 1 



: or s.-:r.N\~i:s. 



> . V— r o «-- rru aru" *ijr. 
. >«'.v,»> V-, o^ arc crar. ».*• v, \ 

X, • .WfcT- -'■- •"•,." *:*"r- aT»;T 

^^ ^ ■* • ■ • ••^ t , 






VARIETIES. 507 

I myself prefer the kitchen, 

For an art-restoring need, 

And a cook's a man indeed, (^is,) 

All such trades of rudeness smatter. 

Therefore in my day's decline, 
I to mix some gayer matter. 

With my toil to love incline. 
Spite of all old prudish chatter, 
Love's a very pretty game, 
Let us play it all the same, (^i.) 

I was present when the following couplet was composed 
by M. Boscary de Ville-PIaine* a distinguished amateur, and 
a cherished pupil of the professor, and that is the reason I 
give it here. Truffles are worshipped now, and perhaps 
the idolatry does us not much credit : — 

IMPROMPTU. 

To the black truffle drink, for I 
Hate the ungrateful worse than hell ; 
The herb which gives us victory, 
In that short fight we love so well. 

For the strange might 

Of love's delight, 
Our God Himself this good weed sent, 
On making mortals blessed intent. 
That we might use it day and night. 

As a finale I give some verses which belong to Meditation 
XXVLt 

I tried to set them to music, but have not succeeded to 
my mind. Another may do better, especially if he is a little 
more animated. The melody ought to be strong, and denote 
in the second couplet that the patient is getting worse. 

* This gentleman seems the same as the one mentioned by our 
author as " an aspiring gastronomer and financier ;" See Meditation 
XI. 58, p. 196. He was probably a relation of a lady of the tame 
name mentioned in Meditation VI., | vii. p. 137. 

t The Mediution XXVI., p. 345, is " On Death."— Tr. 



•l »■ ' 



« » 



r,. . ' . . '.' -' 






- ^ ' ^ ■* 



>••'.'. - - _ *^ 



VARIETIES. 509 

event much more interesting than the discovery of a new 
star, for we see quite enough stars. Moreover, I shall not 
think science sufficiently honoured, nor adequately repre- 
sented, until I see a cook appointed a member of the 
scientific branch of the Institute." * 

The dear president was always pleased when he thought 
of the object of my work ; he wished to give me a motto for 
it, and maintained it was not the Esprit dts Lois which had 
opened to M. de Montesquieu the doors of the Academy.t 
lie also told me that Professor Berriat-Saint-Prix^ had 
written a novel, and he advised me to write the chapter on 
the Gastronomical industry of the imigris. Therefore, as 
justice ought to be done to him, I composed the following 
four verses on him, which contain at the same time his his- 
tory and his praise : — 

VERSES 

To BE PLACED UNDERNEATH THE PORTRAIT OF 

M. Henrion de Pansey. 

To labour among books was his delight, 
And on the bench he showed a lofty mind. 

Profound in law, a scholar, erudite. 
To all for ever courteous and kind.§ 

* The French Institute was established in 1793, when all academies 
and literary societies endowed by the State were abolished ; its mem- 
bers are the most eminent scientific and literary men of France and 
other countries. — Tr. 

t Charles de Secondat, baron de Montesquieu (t669-i755X author of 
the Ltttres Persanes^ CoMsidirutttms sur Us causes de la grandeur et 
de la eUcadence des Remains^ F Esprit des Lois^ etc , owed his nomina- 
tion as member of the Academy, in 1737, to his dinners, according to 
the ridiculous insinuation of the "dear president." — Tr. 

X Jacques Berriat* Saint' Prix (1769-1845^, a well-known lawyer and 
literary man. See a' so the "Dialogue between the author and a 
friend," p. as, note. — ^Tr. 

I We give the verses here in the original, as they were written by 
our author.— Tr. 

Dans ses doctes travaux il fut infatlgable ; 

II eut de grands emplois, qu'il remplit dignement : 

£t quoiqu' il fflt profond, ^rudit, et savant, 

II ne se crut jamais dispense d' £tre aimable. 



T :". 



m m 



'«. 



■ « 






- .-n Z. — 



« ■ ^ •.» 






x*. ~ ~ 



rf- ^ ' „'. • i-'-. 



VARIETIES. 511 

Madame Cbevet has agents in all countries to satufy the 
wishes of even the most capricious gastronomers, and the 
more rival establishments have been] establishedi the more 
popular she becomes. 

2°. M. Achard, a pastry-cook, 9 Rue de Grammont, bom 
at Lyons, is established in Paris about ten years; he 
commenced his reputation by the biscuits and the vanilla 
gaufres which have been inimitable for a long time. 

Everything in his shop is somewhat delicate and coquet- 
tish, such as can be rarely found elsewhere ; the handiwork 
of man does not obtrude itself. His dainties seem the natu- 
ral productions of some enchanted island ; everything made 
in his place is sold the same day. We may say that for him 
there is no morrow. 

In the dog-days, when it is fine weather, every moment 
some smart carriage stops in the Rue de Grammont, and 
usually a stylish young man* and a pretty girl with hat and 
feathers are in it The first runs into Achard's, and comes 
back with a large bag full of sweetmeats, which is received 
with an " Oh, my dear friend, how nice that looks ! " or, 
perhaps, ** Oh, dear ! how well that looks ; it makes already 
my mouth water." And then they start off again to the Bois 
de Boulogne, 

The gourmands are so zealous and so kind that for a long 
while they have borne with the rude behaviour of a far from 
polite young lady who served in the shop. This inconveni- 
ence exists no longer ; for behind the counter is now Miss 
Anna Achard, whose pretty little hand gives a new merit to 
the dainties iKhich needs no commendation. 

3^ M. Limet, No. 79 Rue de Richelieu, my neighbour, 
and baker to several princes, with whom I have also dealt 
for some time. 

* In the original beau Tttutt because during the Directory (1795- 
1799) it was the fashion for young men to have their hair cut short, 
except a few curls in front, in imitation of the bust of the Roman Em- 
peror Titus. — Tr. 



512 V.LRrETIES. 

f fe bought rhc business when it was icing- aotiun^i bar 
very %r,r,n raised it to a. high degree of pross^cxry jmi 
repntat.otu 

tf.A hou-sehold bread is ▼enr gnod, and i is ii^cslt ta 
unite in fancy breads such, a wiiiteness. flaTcuc incf Hchmes^ 
a.% !:e does. 

P''.r'^cjr.er> as well aa people from the pravincs?* il'^r^ 
fiuti a: M. L»mer s the bread diey are accastGine»i to ; sc the 
cxi^*fimcT% come them.^elves, crowd, and ottea cuz-^e la wa*r 
till otiicr? are serve:. 

Th:s success wi.l not surprise any one who is xware rh^-t 
M. I-imet is no slave to custom, but labours a^ssiiincmslj ta 
ri. .cov'tr new resources, and that some of our 
tine men give mm advice.* 



XXVIL 

PRIVATION'S. 

Historical Elegy. 

Vc, 'he fir^t parents of the human race, whose ^* 
U m<rnlioned in history, you who ruined yoorseives for an J| 

applft, what would you no: have done for a tr^iHcd turkey? 
i>vit in Paradise there were neither cooks nor confectioaers» | 

How I pity you ! 

Vc nrii;4i*y kinjjs who conq-iered haughty Troy, your i 

vnlour wjii l>c handled down from age to age ; but yoor table 
wa^ wr<!'chcd. Keiuced to a joint of beef and a chine of 
pork, you remained i^i.orant of the charms of a maUl^e and 

ihc (l<:i.j^lits <j{ 2, fricaiiU of chicken. 

How I pity you ! 



' S*!-! ab/mt Mudame Chevct, "Varieties" XV., •'The Bundle of 
y\<^(>ar.ii{uv" p- 47''/'. al>out Achard, Meditatioa XI. 57, p. 195; axtd 
a\h'\\. Limet, Mc'Jitation XXI. xoo, p. 298. — Tr. 



VARIETIES. 513 

You, Aspasia, Chloe, and all you whose forms have 
been immortalised by the Grecian chisel to the despair of 
the belles of the present day, your charming mouth has 
never inhaled the sweetness of a meringue d la vanUle or h 
la rose ; your thoughts scarcely rose above gingerbread. 

How I pity you ! 

You, gentle priestesses of Vesta, burdened at once with so 
many honours and threatened by such horrible punishments,* 
if only you had tasted those delightful syrups which refresh 
the mind, those preserved fruits which defy the seasons, 
those creams, of various flavours, the marvels of our time ! 

How I pity you ! 

You, Roman capitalists, who drained the whole known 
universe, in your renowned saloons you never beheld such 
succulent jellies, the delights of the indolent, nor those 
variegated ices, of which the cold braves the torrid zone. 

How I pity you ! 

You, invincible Paladins, celebrated by talkative minstrels, 
after having cleft giants in twain, set free fair ladies, or ex- 
terminated armies, no black-eyed captive ever did offer you 
sparkling Champagne, Malmsey, or Madeira,t or liqueurs the 
creation of the age of Louis XI V4 You had to be satisfied 
with beer or with some herb-flavoured sour wine. 

How I pity you ! 

You, crossed and mitred abbots, who dispensed ihe favours 
of Heaven, and you terrible Templars, who wielded your 
swords to exterminate the Saracens, you knew nothing of the 

* They were condemned to be buried alive if they allowed the sacred 
tire in Vesta's Temple to become extinguished, or if they broke their 
vows of chastity. — Ta. 

t I regret to say the illustrious author speaks of Malv^itie d* Ma' 
dire. Malmsey is a wine from Candia.— Ts. 

X See Meditation XXVII., 134, p. 378 note. — Tr. 



. >*.! 







it 




ENVOY TO THE GASTRONOMERS OF 
BOTH WORLDS. 

Excellencies I 

Tfu work I present to you aims at cUveloping to all the 
principles of that science of which you are alike the ornament 
and the support. 

I begin also by offering up incense to Gastronomy^ thcU young 
immortal beings who having hardly put the starry crown on 
her broWf rises already above her sisters^ like Calypso* " who 
surpassed by a head the charming group of nymphs by whom 
she was surrounded,^'* 

The immense porticoes of the temple of Gastronomy^ that 
ornament of the metropolis of the world, will soon tower to 
Ifeaven; you will make it ring again Tvithyour voices^and will 
enrich it with your gifts ; and when the Academy promised 
by the oracles shall be established on the inimitable bases of 
pleasure and of necessity, intelligent gourmands, agreeable 
guests, yon all shall be members or correspondents, 

* An allusion to Calypso, queen on the bland Ogygia. on which 
Ulysses was wrecked and detained for seven years, according to 
Fen^lon's prose-epic TtUmaque, from which work the above lines are 
taken. — Tx. 



5l6 ENVOY. 

In the meamwhiUj lift up to Heaven your radumt faces ; 
advance in all your force and wtafesty; the universe af foods 
is open before you, 

Workf ExcelUncies ; labour Jor the benifit of science ; digest 

for your own particular interest ; and if in the course of 

your labours you should happen to make any important 

discovery^ be kind enough to communicate it to your most 

humble servant. 

The Author of** Handbook of Gastronomy ^ 



■^&W- 




HKINTKI) MV llALi.AMVKK, HANSON AND CO- 
EDINBl ROH AND LONDON 



SBPTBMBBR tSS^. 



PUBLICATIONS 



OF 



J. C. NIMMO AND BAIN, 

14 KING WILLIAM STREET, STRAND, LONDON, W.C, 



A Handbook of Gastronomy 

(Brillat-Savarin's " Physiologie du Goilt "), 

New and Complete Translation, with 52 original Etchings 

by A. Lalauzs. 

Printed on China Paper. 

8vo, half parchment, gilt top, 42s. 

Note. — A limited Edition only o/this book isprinUd, 

Ready in October » 

The Fables of La Fontaine. 

A REVISED TRANSLATION FROM THE FRENCH. 

With 24 original full-page Etchings and Portrait by A. Delierre. 

Super royal 8to, doth, gilt top, 3 is. 6d. 

Ready in October, 

14 King William Strut ^ Strand^ London^ W, C, 



AkVuB/Mf ^y. C Nimmo and Bain, 

Types from Spanish Story; 

OE, 

THE OLD MANNERS AND CUSTX)MS OF CASTILE. 

By JAKBB MSW. 

Wltb 56 rrooC Eudii^s oa Japmese paper fay IL db Los Rios. 

Soper Toymi Stq^ dc^aiit and racl^rrA/ Binding after the 

iSth Centuy, 31s. 6d. 

Rtmd^ Ml Octeber, 



The Fan. 

By OOTAVB UZAHSZ. 

Illustrations by PAUL AVRIL. 

Royal Sto, cloth, gilt top, 31s. 6d. 

XoTF. — T\is is «• £rjitsA Editicn of tke mmi^tu ama artistu 
ar^n( ** Z'£>vit/ji.," ^^^ '^ Mmrl^rm in styU amd ulustraiicns tntk 
•• :u SuMskaJi^ Afmf, and Glcvt.^ 

Hmdy in Ocioker. 



The Dramatic Works of 
Brinsley Sheridan. 

With an Ixtrodictx>ry Sketch of thb Lifb and Gbnius 

OF Sheridan, 

By BIOHABB OBANT WHITE. 

Three Portraits have been etched for this Edition— after the 
Painting by Sir Joshua Reynolds, the Drawing by Corboald, and 
the Sketch originally published in the GemtUmam^s Magatint. 

In 3 vols, post Svo, doth. 

Note. — Only a UmiiM number of this Edition has kem printed. 

Ready in October » 



7/ King Wiiliam Strett^ Strand^ LondoHy IV. C, 



Publications of/. C. Nimmo and Bain, 3 

A HANDSOME LARGE PAPER EDITION OF 

The Works of Wm. Hicklingf Prescott. 

In 15 Volumes 8vo, cloth (not sold separately). 
With so Poriraiis printed on India paper, 

Athenseum. 

' ' In point of style Prescott ranks with the ablest English historians, 
and paragraphs may be found in his volumes in which the grace and 
elegance of Addison are combined with Robertson's majestic cadence 
and Gibbon's brilliancy.'' 

J. Lothrop Motley. 

" Wherever the English language is spoken over the whole earth his 
name is perfectly familiar. We all of us know what his place was in 
America. But I can also say that in eight years (1851-59) passed 
abroad I never met a single educated person of whatever nation that 
was not acquainted with his fame, and hardly one who had not read 
his works. No living American name is so widely spread over the 
whole world." 

Note. — Only a limited number of this Edition is printed. 

First three vols, ready in October, 

The History of Engfland, 

From the First Invasion by the Romans to the Accession 

OF William and Mary in 1688. 

By JOHN LIiraABD, D.D. 

Copyright Edition, with Ten Etched Portraits. In Ten Vols. 

demy 8to, cloth, £$^ 5s. 

This New Copyright Library Edition of '* Lingard's History of 
England," besides containing all the latest notes and emendations 
of the Author, with Memoir, in enriched with Ten Portraits, newly 
etched by Damman, of the following personages, riz. : — Dr. Lin- 
gard, Edward L, Edward III., Cardinal Wolsey, Cardinal Pole, 
Elizabeth, James L, Cromwell, Charles IL, James II. 

Note. — The Edition is limited in number^ and intending^ pur- 
chasers would do well by ordering early from their respective Book" 
sellers. 



14 King WiUiam Street, Strand, London, W. C. 



/ry. c Ji: 



iv . n . n. s. usax^ssaut 

ujLiiri sirnLiHL of ZXL. 





cims i-s rtu*i,ir mT± birr^ iZtL -^hzisc oear ai^d even snrle is 
fii-TU-TX. - le TT^ ir-d rfT -zr rf iriese t«s To.Vnrars !eave 

The Spcctmtor. 

_ Wt zr* ^'jLL -: -^ thai Ti« d-saad for Dr. LTFjard^ EmgLtrnd 
srrZ ccruritfi- Fe»» L-srcraes gr"«« ibc reader tbr sa-:^ unpresskn of 
c3.h5.-Li*-:r* «ci±T. Th^ 3-* cd-tfoQ is eicc"«:r> pri-ted, and illos- 
tr2^£d Huh ir=. pcr:rfi_:s of ibs gTea:est personages in oar hBtory." 



Doblm Review. 

** It is pTeasast to ncdoe :r^: the demand for Lingard m utin ues to be 
5T:cb that pczblishers ve^rure oc a well goc-op library edition like the one 
before cs. Mere ;han s:t!t years bare gone since the first n>liime of 
the Srst ed:::on was p::^l:5hei ; many equally prctentioas histoncs 
have appeared dcnng tha: sr-ace, and have more or less disappeared 
sisce. yet Lingard lives — is st:^ a recognised and respected authority.** 

The Scotsman. 

" There is no need, at this time of day, to say anything in vindication 
of the importance, as a standard work, of Dr. Langard's * History of 
England.' For half a century it has been recognised as a literary 
achievement of the highest merit, and a monnment of the erudition and 
research of the author. . . . His book is of the highest value, and 
should find a place on the shelves of every library. Its intrinsic merits 
are very great. The style is lucid, pointed, and puts no strain upon 
the reader ; and the pnnter and publisher have neglected nothing that 
could make this — what it is likely long to remain — the standard edition 
of a work of great historical and literary value." 

Z4 King William ^reet^ Strand^ London^ W. C. 



Publicatims of/, C. Nimtno and Bain. 5 

Imasfinary Conversations. 

By WALTSB SAVAaS LANDOB. 

In Five Vols, crown 8vo, doth, 30s. 

First Series — Classical Dialogues, Greek and Roman. 

Second Series — Dialogues of Sovereigns and Statesmen. 

Third Series—Dialogues of Literary Men. 

Fourth Series— Dialogues of Famous Women. 
Fifth Series — Miscellaneous Dialogues. 

Note.— Tl^ir New Edition is prinUdJrom the last Edition of his 
IVoris, revised and edited by John rorster^ and is published by 
arrangement with the Proprietors of the Copyright of Walter Savage 
Landor*s IVorhs, 

The Athenseum. 

" The appearance of this tasteful reprint would seem to indicate that 
the present generation is at last waking up to the fact that it has ne* 
glected a great writer, and if so it is well to begin with Landor's nnost 
adequate work. It is difiicuH to overpraise the ' Imaginarv Conversa- 
tions.' The eulogiums bestowed on the ' Conversations' by Emerson 
will, it is to be hoped, lead many to buy this book." 

Scotsman. 

"An excellent service has been done to the reading public by pre- 
senting to it, in five compact volumes, these 'Conversations.' Ad- 
mirably printed on good paper, the volumes are handy in shape, and 
indeed the edition is all that could be desired. When this has been 
said, it will be understood what a boon has been conferred on the 
reading public ; and it should enable many comparatively poor men to 
enrich their libraries with a work that will have an enduring interest." 

Literary World. 

" That the ' Imaginary Conversations ' of Walter Savage Landor are 
not better known is no doubt largely due to their inaccessibility to most 
readers, by reason of their cost This new issue, while handsome 
enough to find a place in the best of libraries, is not beyond the reach 
of the ordinary bookbuyer/' 



n 



Edinburgh Review. 

" How rich in scholarship t how correct, concise, and pure in style 1 
how full of imagination, wit, and humour I how well informed, how bold 

i^ King William Street^ Strand^ Londony IV, C- 



PMuaHcns tfj, C Nimmo and Bain. 



in spcc nl a rion , hoir trMioos in w l rtwf » how HDiPegMl in ay ip athy ! In 

these dialogues — making allovaBoe for et ei y shortcomiii^ or 



the most familiar and the most angnst shapes of the past are reanimated 
with vigoor, grace, and beauty. iVe are in the hign and g^ocxlly cmn- 
pany of wits and men of lettefs ; of chordmien, lawyers, and stales- 
men ; of party-men« soldieis, and kings ; of the most tender, delicate, 
and noble women ; and of figures that seem this instant to have left for 
us the Agora or the Schools of Athens, the Fonun or the Senate of 



The Sunshade, Muff, and Glove. 

By OOTAVS UZAHNB. 

Illustrations by PAUL AVRIL. 

Royal Svo, cloth, gilt top, 31s. 6d. 

Note. — This is an Engiish Edition of the unique and artistic 
work '* VOmbrelU^^ recently published in Paris, and now dificmlt to 
be procured. No new Edition in French to be produced. 

This Edition has been printed at the press of Monsieur QuANTiN 
with the same care and wonderful taste as was his French Edition. 

Glasgow Herald. 

" * I have but collected a heap of foreign flowers, and brought of ipy 
own only the string which binds them together ' is the fitting quotation 
with which M. Uxanne closes the preface to his volume on Woman's 
Ornaments. The monograph on the Sunshade, called by the author 
' a little tumbled fantasy/ occupies fully one-half of the volume. It 
begins with a pleasant invented mythology of the parasol ; glances at 
the sunshade in all countries and times ; mentions many famous am- 
brellas ; quotes a number of clever sayings. ... To these remarks 
on the spirit of the book it is necessary to add that the body of it is a 
dainty marvel of paper, type, and binding ; and that what meaning it 
has looks out on the reader through a htmdred argus-eyes of many- 
tinted //^{^^avwref, exquisitely designed by M. Plaul Avril.* 

Athenaeum. 

'*The letterpress comprises much amusing ' chit-chat,' and is more 
solid than it pretends to be. The illustrations contain a good deal that 
is acceptable on account of their spirit and variety. • • . This broc k mr e 
is worth reading, nay, we think it is worth keeping." 



14 King William Street^ Strand^ London^ W.C. 



PublicaHons off. C. Nimmo and Bain, 



Scotsiaaiu 

" This book is to be prized, if only because of its text But this is by 
no means its sole, we might say, its chief attraction. M. Uzanne has 
had the assistance of M. Paul Avril as illustrator, and that artist has 

Krepared many designs of singular beauty and gracefulness. It would 
e difficult to speak too highly of them ; they have a piauancy and 
grace which is in the highest degree attractive. It is one of the prettiest 
and most attractive volumes we have seen for many a day." 



The Complete Angler; 

OR, 

THE CONTEMPLATIVE MAN'S RECREATION, 
Of EZAAK WALTON and OHABLES OOTTON. 

Edited by John Major. 

A New Edition, with 8 original Etchings (2 Portraits and 6 
Vignettes), two impressions of each, one on Japanese and one on 
Whatman paper ; also, 74 Engravings on Wood, printed on China 
Pi4>er throughout the text 

8to, cloth, gilt top, 3 IS. 6d. 

The Timet. 

" Messis. Nimmo & Bain, who seem resolved to take a leading place 
in the production of attractive volumes, have now issued a beaudful 
edition of Walton & Cotton's ' Angler.' The paper and printing leave 
nothii^ to be desired, and the binding is very tasteful.** 

The Field. 

" As works of art Mr. Tourrier's etchings are admirable, and the 
printers and publishers have done their work admirably, . . A very 
handsome book, and one which will form a satisfactory present to many 
an angler." 

Daily Telegraph. 

" To the gnmd numerical monuments of this book's univeml popu- 
larity is now added a sumptuous reprint of the 1844 edition, with eight 
brilliant etchings. The woodcuts, fresh and beautiful, are gems of an 
art now endangered by modem requirements of baste. This volume, 
so carefully reprinted, is a choice and welcome addition to the pisca- 
torial library.'* 

14 King WUliam Street^ Strand, London, fV.C 



tfj. C Aimma 4md JBatm. 



&\b jSTiNmlsb ^E^omances. 



la 12 Tc&. cxmm 9va^ |«nfcf i i r bouds or doth, 7s. 6d. per toL 



THE HISTORT of DON QUIXOTE DE tJL MANCHA. 

Tn:ii^ri :r.=i the Spanish of Miguel dk Cervantes 
S AJk V ir LA br M ornxcx. With copious Notes (including the 
:m.i' ^^ hiZ^liK aad an Essay ca the Life and Writings of 
C£].v%ATXs by jcHX G. Lx>CKBAXT. Preceded by a Short 
X:ijc* U zht Lie asd Works of PxTEK Anthony Motteui 
tj iiLSZi Van Lacx. lihistimted with Sixteen Onginal 
E:ri.;>^ lt R. de Los Rios. Four Volumes^ 

LAZARILLO DE TORMES. By Don Diego Mendoza. 
Tnn>lA:ed by Thomas Roscoe. And GUZMAN D'ALFA- 
RACHE. 'By Mateo Aleman. Translated by Beadit. 
Il.nstrated vith Eight Oiig^nal Etdiings fay R. DE IjOS Rios. 
Two Volnmcs. 

ASMODEUS. By Ls Sage. Translated from the Frendi. 
Illns?raifd with Four Original Etchings by R. DE Los R10& 

THE BACHELOR OF SALAliANCA By Le Sage. 

Translated from the French by James Townsend. UlustnUe^ 
with Four Original Etchings by R. DE Los Rios. 

VANILLO GONZALES ; or, The Merry Bachelor. By Le 
Sage. Translated from the French. lilustiated with Four 
Original Etchings by R. DE Los Rios. 

THE ADVENTURES OF GIL BLAS OF SANTIL- 
LANE Translated from the French of Ls Sags by Tobias 
Smollett. With Biographical and Critical Notice of Lx 
Sage by George Saintsbury. New Edition, carefuUy 
revised. Illustrated with Twelve Original Etchings by R. uK 
Los Rios. Three Volumes. 

Note. — A small numUr of abcvc was prinUd on Modium 9m 
Laid Paper, 

J 4 King Wiliiam Street, Strand, London, WX. 



Publications of/. Q Nimmo and Bain. 



The Times. 

"This prettily printed and prettily illustrated collection of Spanish 
Romances deserve their welcome from all students of seventeenth cen- 
tury literature." 

Daily Telegraph. 

" A handy and beautiful edition of the works of the Spanish masters 
of romance. . . . We may say of this edition of the immortal work of 
Cervantes that it is most tastefully and admirably executed, and that it 
is embellished with a series of striking etchings from the pen of the 
Spanish artist De los Rios." 

Scotsman. 

" Handy in form, they are well printed from clear tjrpe, and are got 
up with much elegance ; the etchings are full of humour and force. 
The reading public have reason to congratulate themselves that so neat, 
compact, and well arranged an edition of romances that can never die is 
put within their reach. The publishers have spared no pains with 
them." 

Saturday Review. 

*' Messn. Nimmo & Bain have just brought out a series of Spanish 
prose works in twelve finely got-up volumes. 



Illustrated with Etchings, 
In 12 Vols, crown 8vo, parchment boards or cloth, 7s. 6d. per vol. 

THE LIFE AND OPINIONS OF TRISTRAM 
SHANDY, Gentleman. By Laurence Sterne. In 
Two Vols. With Ei^t Etchings by Damman from Original 
Drawings by Harry ruRNiss. 

THE OLD ENGLISH BARON : A Gothic Story. By 
Clara Reeve. 

ALSO 

THE CASTLE OF OTRANTO : A Gothic Story. By 
Horace Walpole. In One Vol. With Two Portraits and Four 
Original Drawings by A. H. Tourrier, Etched by Damman. 

THE ARABIAN NIGHTS ENTERTAINMENTS. In 
Fonr Vols. Carefully Revised and Corrected from the Arabic 
by Jonathan Scott, IX. D., Oxford. With Nineteen 
Original Etchings by Ad. Lalauze. 



14 King William Street, Strand, London, W.C. 



lo PMuuium^fJ. a Nimmo mnd Baim. 



THE HISTORY OF THE CALIPH VATHEK. By 
Wm. Beckfokix With Notes, Critical aad Explasatoffy. 

ALSO 

RASSELAS, PRINCE OF ABYSSINIA. Bj Samuel 
ToHNSoH. In One VoL With Portnut of Bkckfoud^ and 
Four Original Etchings^ designed bj A. H. Tourkuuk. and 
Etched by Damman. 

ROBINSON CRUSOE. By Danisl Dbpob. In Two Yob. 
With Bic^raphical Memoir, lUostimtive Notes^ and Eight 
Etchings by il, MouiLLERON, and Portrait by L- Flamsng. 

GULLIVER'S TRAVELS. By Jonathan Swift. With 
Five Etchings and Portrait by Al)w Lalauzb. 

A SENTIMENTAL JOURNEY. By Laurencs Stekne. 

ALSO 

A TALE OF A TUB. By Jonathan Swift. In One Vol 

With Five Etchings and Portrait by Ed. Hedouin. 

Note. — A small numbtr of above was primted on Medium 8vo 
Laid Paper, 

The Timea. 

*' Among the numerous handsome reprints which the poblisben of 
the day vie with each other in producing, we have seen nothing of 
greater merit than this series of twelve volumes. Those who have read 
these masterpieces of the last century in the homely garb of the M 
editions may be gratified with the opportunity of perusing them with 
the advantages of large clear print and illustrations of a quality which 
is rarely bestowed on such re-issues. The series deserves every ood- 
mendation.*' 

Athenaeum. 

"A well -printed and tasteful issue of the 'Tliousand and One 
Nights.* The volumes are convenient in sise, and illustrated with 
I clause's well-known etchings." 

Magazine of Art. 

"The text of the new four-volume edition of the 'Thousand and 
One Nights ' Just issued bv Messrs. Nimmo & Bain b that revised by 
Jonathan Scott, from the French of Galland : it presents the essentials 
of these wonderful stories with irresistible authotitV and di r ec tn es s , and, 
as mere reading, it is as satis&ctory as ever. The edition, wUdi is 
limited to a thousand copies, is beautifully printed and remaricably well 

/^ Kir^ William Street, Strand, London, fV. C 



Fublicatums of J, C, Nimmo and Bain. ii 



produced. It is illustrated with twenty etchiDgs tnr \a\axam, ... In 
another volume of this series Beckford's wild and gloomy *Vathek' 
appears side by side with Johnson's admirable ' Rasselas.' " 

Glasgow Herald. 

' ' The merits of this new issue lie in exquisite clearness of type, com- 
pleteness ; notes and biographical notices, short and pithy ; and a 
number of very fine etchings and portraits. In the * Robmson Crusoe.' 
besides the well-known portrait of Defoe by Flaroeng, there are eight 
exceedingly beautiful etchings by Mouilleron. . . . In fine keeping with 
the other volumes of the soies, uniform in style and iilustiations, and 
as one of the volumes of their famous Old English Romances, Messrs. 
Nimmo & Bain have also issued the ' Rasselas ' of Johnson and the 
*Vathek'of Beckford.** 

Westminster Review. 

* ' Messrs. Nimmo & Bain have added to their excellent series of ' Old 
English Romances ' three new volumes, of which two are devoted to 
' Tristram Shandy.' while the third contains * The Old English Baron ' 
and ' The Castle of Otranto.' Take them as they stand, and without 
attributing to them any qualities but what they really possess, Uie whole 
series was well worth reprinting in the elegant and attractive form in 
which they are now presented to us.*' 



The Imitation of Christ. 

Four Books. 
Translated from tbe Latin by R«v. W. BBNHAHy B J)., 

Hector of St Edmund^ King and Martyr, Lombard Street, 

With ten Illustrations by J. P. Laurens, etched by Leopold 

Flameng. 

Crown Svo, cloth or parchment boards, los. 6d. 

Scotsman, 

"We have not seen a more beautiful edition of 'The Imitation of 
Christ ' than this one for many a day.'* 

Magasine of Art. 

" This new edition of the ' Imitation ' may fairly be regarded as a 
work of art. It is well and clearly printed ; the paper is excellent ; 
each page has its peculiar border, and it is illustrated with ten etchings. 
Further than that the translation is Mr. Benham's we need say nothing 
more.** 

14 King William Street^ Strand, London, W, C. 



12 Publications of J, C Nimmo and 



Essays from the "North American 

Review." 

Edited by ALLEN THOENDIKE SIC& 

Demy 8vo, cloth, 7s. 6d. 
Saturday Review. 



' ' A collection of interesting essays from the North American Reviem^ 
beginning with a criticism on the works of Walter Scott, and ending 
with papers written by Mr. Lowell and Mr. O. W. Holmes^ The 
variety of the essays is noteworthy." 



Alain Rene Le Sage. (1668-1747.) 

A Short History op the 

LIFE AND WRITINGS OF ALAIN REN£ LE SAGE, 

The Author of " Gil Bias;' 

Who was bom at Sarzean on the 8th of May i66S, 
and died at Boulogne on the 17th November 1747. 

By GEOBGE SAINTSBUBY. 

Medium Svo, 50 pp., paper covers, 3s. 6d. 



Peter Anthony Motteux. (1660-1718.) 

A Short History of the late 

MR. PETER ANTHONY MOTTEUX, 
A Native of France, 

Whilom Dramatist, China Merchant, and Auctioneer* 

Who departed this life on the l8th of February 1718 (old stjlt), 
being then precisely 58 years old. 

By HENBI VAN LAUN. 

Medium 8vo, 43 pp., paper covers, 3s. 6d. 

14 King William Street^ Strand^ London^ fV.C. 



Pidiluatiims of J. C. Nimme and Sain. i ; 

Tbe American Patent Portable M-Gase. 




For Students, Barristers, Home Libraries, &Ci 



This Book>cue will be found lo be made of ittj solid and dnrable 
malerial, and of a neat and elegant deiign. lie thelTci majr be 
adjusted for bootft of an; lize, and wifl hold Iix>m 150 to 300 
volumes. As it requires neither nails, screwii, or gtue, it may be 
taken to pieces in o few minutes, and reset up in another room or 
house, where it would be inconvenient to carry a large fisme. 

Full Height, 5//. Ill in.; mm, -ift.Htt.: DiptkefSMf, \o\in. 

Block Wolnut, price £0, Ob. nett 



" The ■eeompanyinEtliMcli ill mlralti a handy partible booJi -cue of Am 
Hnu(«Uin,whichM«>.n.NiH>iaft BAiHhivepravideJ. Ilixguilcdii 



14 King William Strut, Strand, London, IV.C. 



14 Fubiicai$0ns of/, C Ntmmo and J3€Ufu 



as U is dasigaed onressly for holding Um lAKWtt powibto numbrr of bdoles is 
the smallest possible amount of space. One of the chief advantacca whick dicae 
book-cases possess is the ease vrith whidi they may be taken uait and pot 
together again. No nails or metal screws are emplmredf norhing oat the bud 
is reqoirea to dismantle or reoonstmct the case. The parts fit tocecher vith 
mathematical precision; and, from a package of boards of Tcry oKMicme 
dimensions, a firm and substantial book-case can be ei s cled in the space of a 
few minutes. Appearances have by no means been orer l oo l oB d ; the psaelled 
sides, bevelled edges, and other simple ornaments, giim to the cases a very seat 
and tasteful look. For students, or others whose occupation may involve 
fre()uent change of residence, these book'cases will be found moat handy and 
desirable, while, at the same time» they are so substantial* vrell->inaile, aad 
convenient, that they will be found aiiaaUy suitable for the library sii ~ 



Select List from the Catalogrue of 
J. & A. Churchill, 

Publishers, New Burlington Street, 
As supplied by J. C Nimmo & Bain. 



Catalogue of the Publications of 
W. H. Allen & Co., 

Publishers, Waterloo Place, 
As supplied by J. C. Nimmo & BAiir. 



BOOK-CORNER PROTECTORS. 



Metal Tips carefully prepared for placing on the Comers of 
Books to preserve them from injury while passing through the 
Post Office or being sent by Carrier. 

Extract from *'The Times," April x8th. 

"That the publishers and booksellers of America second the efforts 
of the Post Office authorities in endeayouring to convey books without 
damage happening to them is evident from the tips which they use to 
protect the comers from injury during transit.*' 

IS. 6d. per^Gross, nett. 



J. C. NIMMO & BAIN, 

14 KING WILLIAM STREET, STRAND, LONDON, W.C. 



I 



I 



II 



1 



