


'1M# 



hff T S;«.:^«iV;i<:V'.*i, 




s 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 

^i!^ 

Ci^Hp.!^..... ©npijririi]^ !l|o. 

Shelf .P2..II" 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 




EXTRA NO. 85. 



PRACTICAL COOKER!, 



WITH DEMONSTRATIONS. 




BY 



MISS M^M^ P^I^LOi^L. 



NEW YORK: THE TRIBUNE. 

18 8 4. 

PEICB TWENTY-PIVE CENTS. 
Copyright, The Tribune Asaociation, 1884 



Tery CloicejiBt Articles 

ATKINSON'S (London) 

EXTRACT OF THE WHITE MOSS ROSE-the 
new Extract — a most delicate perfume. 

SOAPS, ^Vllite Rose, etc.— (highly perfumed). 

SACHETS, Violets, etc.— unequalled for ifiipart- 
iaa a delicate fragrance to Lingerie, Gloves, etc. 

ORIENTAL, TOOIH PASTE— new, effecUve and 
harmless. 

QUININE HAIH LOTION— superior to any otber 
as Hair-dressing and tonic. 

L'ADVOCAT (Paris) 

FLEUR DE CTGNE a la OLYCEniNE— all sliados 
— as sold hy the Mait<on du Blanc, Paris. The 
favorite Parisian Complexion Powder. 

mm AXTOX FARINA COLOGNE, 

BED AND BLUE LABEL— The Best of Farina 
Colognes — prepared by the oldest firm of Fariua. 

TO BE HAJD OF ALL LBADING DRCQOISTS AND 
FABOY GOODS DEALERS. 

WHOLESiLE AGENTS, 

56 & 58 Murray-sl., New-York 



CRANULA 

A twice-cooked Food, ready for Immediate toble nai- 
One of the oldeat and moat thoronghly tented pre 
paratlona known. INCOMPARABLE FOR INVA 
UDS, CHIUDRGN, dyspeptica, and people tronbleu 
with constipation. In fact, no other single article ol 
food coutalun more nntrlmont, nor pouosaea more 
absolute merit, than does Granula. It la dellclooa as 
a diet, bclnR nnsurpaseed as a broaklaat dish, and 
for inncb. This la the original and only goooinc 
anmnla, mannfactnred by 

OUR UOME GRAVULA CO., 

DAN8VILLE, N. T. 



SOIJ) BY THE lIEAIiTH FOOB CO., 

74 FOXIBTH.AVE., NEW- YORK. 

CRANULA 



THE HEALTH FOOD COMPANY OF NEW-YORK 

Is now in the tenth year of its eiistenco. Its valnablo and importiint -work hr„s been recognized and 
commended by thom»anil3 of physicians, bv mnuv writcr.s for the medical aud general pre.ss, and by mul- 
titudes of the sick and suflering who have found health and comfort throuRh it products. It has had 
many imitators, bnt it has conscientiously adhered to its original mission of propanug 

Perfect Foods for Sick and Well. 

Basing its work upon exact science, and being presided over by a scientific man, it has gained the 
support aud co-operation of the scientific world. Prof. Albert N. Leeds, Public Analyst for tlie State of 
New-Jersey and Professor of Chemistry in the Stevens Institute, has microsconically examined and 
chemically analyzed most of the Health Food Company^s products, and asserts their great excellence. 
(In onr limited space we can only briefly quote from the Professor's published statement, but we are 
as-^iurcd that he will cheerfully mail a copy of the pamphlet to any one who shall addre.ss him at the 
C'ollipi- named, situated in Hobokeu. Now-.Iersev.) He fouud in the Health Food Company's Whole 
Wheal Flour I0.74 per cent of albuminoid!*, chiefly gluten, thus showing iU great 8u]>eriority over 
all other bre.ad-flours in general use. Of the " Franklin Mills" Flour, said to be made from "entire 
wheat," he writes : " It contains 8.5S per cent of albuminoids, chiefly gluten, together with a very largo 
percentage of cellulose or linely-gronnd bran. It is greatly lackiiig in nutritive elements." Prof, 
Leeds further testifies that the «iJlutenM prepared by the Health Food Company are richer in tl 9 
gluten element than any which he has been able to ol>tain, whether of American or foreign origin, aud 
moro than twice as rich as a so-called gluten made by Farwell & Rhines, of Rochester. He al.so finds by 
analysis that '• Robin.soii's Prepared Barley Flour" contains only 5.15 per cent of albuminoids, while 
the llealth Food Company's barley flour, retailing for less than oneHughtli as much, contains la.NS 
per cent, .showing it to be nearly three times as rich in substantial nutriment. The llours and foods of 
the Health Food Company are nourishing in health and remedial in sii'kness. Their good work is in 
the improvement of the blood-'naking processes, in better digestion, in increased nutrition. Many 
physicians have testified to the readiness of disease* to yield to their treatment when the 
patients have been sustained by the bland, soluble, non-irritating, nourishing nutriments prepared by 
the Health Food Coiunany. Its products still stand at the head of the long list of food preparations for 
infants and invalids, for the sick who seek to recover health and strength, for the strong who desire to 
remain strong. It has elevated food and its preparation to the dignity of a science, and has sought to 
render itself wholly worthy of the wanu eneomiuius so ablv iironounced by scholars, physicians and 
scientists, conspicuous among whom stand the Rev. .Tohn F. Clynier, Prof. Austm Flint and Jlrs. Laura 
I.,ymau Sliipli<Td. Editor of '*^Home Interests" in the Nkw-York TkibU-NE. 

I'amphlets, price-lists and all particulars are freely mailed to all inquirers. Address, 

HEALTH FOOD C0MPANY,74 4th-ave.,cor.10th-st.(ncxtdoortoSt<>wan's),New-York,N.Y. 



191) Trentoni-Ht., KonIuu. 



^'d'Z Arcb-Hl., PhllndelplLla. 



EXTRA NO, 85. 



mim COOKERY, 



WITH DEMONSTRATIONS. 




BT 



MISS M^RIA. P^RLO^. 



<^%'^'cof'«-'^i. "J'J 









^^ 




NEW YORK: THE TRIBUNE. 

18 8 4. 

PRICE TWENTY-FIVE CENTS. 
C'opjfright, The TriJiune Associaiion, 1684 






INTRODUCTION. 



Miss Maria Parloa's lectures on cooking have been deaerrcdly praised in NeTT-York and 
other cities as the besh contributiou that has yet been made to the most practical of ho;ue 
arts. Her familiar talks to lior classes, reduced to writiuc for the beuetit of TRim :nk naders 
and carefully revised in print by her own hand, are here reproduced. American house- 
keepers will find these sugsestions and recipes of invaluable assistance not only in provid- 
ing luxuries, but even necessities, for those who gather at their tables. Miss Parloa is a most 
practical as well as accomplished woman and is not wanting in originality. These recipes 
lire not adaptations "f foreign formulas, but are designed to form a ciiiruuou-s«iuso mauuiU 
for American kitchens. 



CONTENTS. 



Lectche Paob 

I. rcFF Paste, Eclairs and other Z*a.txty Dishes 3 

n. CnoQUETTKs, Omkli-.ts, Beefsteak, Dishes ron Iiessekt, etc 5 

HI. FiLiXT OP Beef, Caramel Ice Ckeam Cakes, etc 7 

IV. Ham, Tongue, Baked Beans, Eggs, Muffins, etc 9 

v. Boned Tukkey. Quince Iced Pudding, and other Desserts 10 

VL Entrees and Soups 12 

VII. Croquettes, Chops, Vegetables, Royal Diplomatic Pudding, etc 14 

VIII. Sweetbreads. Puddings, Food for the Sick 15 

IX. Breakfast Dishes, Bavarian Cream, Wine .Ielly, etc 17 

Household Notes l'J-32 



PIIA^CTIC^L COOKEHY. 



SERIES OF lilTCHENT LESSOTSTS, WITH DEMONSTKATIONS, 

BY MISS MARIA PARLOA. 

Copyright, Tlie Tribune Association, 1883. 



FUFF PASTE. ECLAIRS AND OTHEE DAINTY 
DISHES. 

The work that is being done in Miss Parloa's 
Cooking School, at No. 222 East Seventei-nth-st., 
is exciliui? increased interest lio'h among the pupils 
of the echool and anjoug many others who have 
watched its prneress. The number of attendants 
has grown steadily, and the scope of the scliool is 
beinc gradually broadened". At present the work 
comprises prl\ ate classes and public demonstration 
lessons. The several private classes, which are 
tnught both by Miss Parloa and by her assistant, 
Mrs. Webb, contain six members each. The m- 
structor gives the recipes for the different 
dishes to be made and the scholars pre- 
pare them under the iuimediata direction 
ot their teacher. In the demonstration 
lessons Miss Parloa reads the recipes and prepares 
the dishes hersflf, explaining every step in the 
different processes with the utmost rare, and in a 
manner that never fails to Interest her hearers, 
whether they know anything about methods of 
cooking or not. 1 hese lessons are given on Monday 
anil Tuesday of each week. 

In her first lecture Miss Parloa treated of the mak- 
ing and uses of puff paste, and this tuljject drew the 
largest audience of the season. After prefacing her 
work with the statement that the hands should first 
be WHshed with soap and water, and then dippoil in 
extremely hot. and subsequently in cohl, water, Miss 
Parloa hrouL'ht to her table a quart of pastry flour, 
a pint of butter, a tablespoonful of salt, a like quan- 
tity of sugar, and one and a quarter cupfuls of ice- 
■woter, and said: 

"Fill a large pan or bowl with boiling water, and 
a moment later substitute cold water, leaving the 
bowl finally only half lull. \Va<ih the pint of but- 
ter in this water, and work with the hands until 
light and waxy ; this action freeing it of butter- 
milk and salt and lightening it, so that the pastry 
will ho more delicate. After having shaped the 



butter into two thin cakes, pnt it in a pan of ice 
water to hard-n. Mix the flour, sugar and salt to- 
ecther, and with the hands rub a third of the butter 
into the flour. Add the water.stiiringwith aknife; 
and continue stirring quickly and vigorously until 
the paste beeumes ,a smooth ball. Sprinklo the 
moulding-board lightly with tlonr. Turn tlie paste 
on the hoard and pound it quickly and lightly with 
theroUing-pin. Bo careful not to break the paste. 
Roll from you .and to one side; or, if 
you prefer to roll from yon all the while, 
turn the paste around. When it has been 
roUed down to the thickness of about a quarterof 
an inch, wipe the remaining butter, break it into 
bits and ppread these on the paste. A light sprink- 
ling of flour should follow, and the paste should be 
folded, one-third from each side, so that the edges 
meet. Next fold from the ends, but do not have 
these meet. Double the paste, pound lightly, and 
roll down to the thickness of about a third of an 
inch. Fold as befoie and loil down again. Repeat 
the operation three time? if for pies and six if for 
I'ol-au-vents, patties or tarts. When it has been 
rolled for the last time place upon ice. It should 
remain at least an hour in the ice-chest before it in 
used. In hot weather if the paste sticks whea 
being rolled, put it on a tin sheet and on ice. As 
soou as it has been chilled it will roll easily. The 
smaller the quantity of flour used when rtdlingtho 
better the paste will be; indeed, uo matter how 
carefully all the worlc is done, the paste will not 
he good if luueh flour be used." 

Having bad her paste chilled. Miss Parloa made a 
vol-au-vetitin this manner: The paste was rolled 
into a ten-inch square, jilaccd on a plate 9I2 
inches in diameter and cut around the edge of the 
plate. Another plate, about 7 inches in diameter, 
was placed in the centre of the paste, and then a 
case-knife, that had been dipped into hot water, 
was used to cut two-thirds through the paste 
around the edge of the small plate. The paste was 
put in a flat baking-pan and into the oven. In 
about a quarter of an hour the draughts were 



Tribune Extra No. 83. 



closed, to slacken the lieat, and the i'o/-(m-tvH< was 
cooki-d nbont half an luinr longer, Miss 
J'arloa beiufi cari>ful that ii sliuulil not burn. 
When it was rcmoviMl from rho oven the 
cascknito was used to lift the eentre-i)iece, .and the 
iinoookod paste was removed from the vol-au-vcnl 
wilh a spoon. Then the oenlre-piece was 
r.placed. Miss Parloa explaineil that at the 
time for serviiiii, the t'o/-a«-i'c«( should ha heated 
thiouch, filled with chicken, sweet brea(Ls. lobster, 
oysters or something else, and afler the cover had 
been replaced, slionhl be servo I hot. All the work 
except tins last part could he donu the previous day 
if more conveiiiMit. 

For patties Miss Parloa rolled a quantity of pnfT 
pnsto down to the thick. ics< of three-quarters of an 
inch, takinc pains to have tlie thickness even. 
I'ieceg weru then cut out with a round tin cutter 
three and a half inches in diameter and placed in 
pans. Another cutter, two and a half inches in di- 
ameter, was dipped into hot water and placed in 
the centre of oacli patty, to ho pressed about two- 
thirds through, the motion of iirossins beins rotary. 
These centre-pieces. Miss Parloa .said, were easily 
separated from the rest of the patties when baked. 
Tlie patties were baked ton uiiimtes in a very hot 
oven, then the heat was reduced, and they wore 
kept in tiio oven twenty minutes longer. When 
thev were removed the centre-pieces were lifted 
and the uncooked paste taken out, leaving space for 
meat or hsh chopped tine, seasoned with pepper and 
salt, and warmed in a creani sauce; the covers 
boiiig finally rej)laced. 

Spanish curls were next made. The trimmings of 
putt p.aste were rolled very thin and cut iiiti) long, 
narrow strips. These were wound around small 
conical sticks and baked a quarter of an hour. The 
removal of the stuks gave a place for preserved 
6trawl)erries and whippeil cream. 

This was the rule furnished for gdleau Chanlilly : 
After rolling miti' paste very thin, place a plate upon 
it and trim the edges with a eharp knile on a j.ig- 
giiig-iron. Place the paste on a tin sheet and bake 
lifleen or twenty in-nutes in a quick oven. It takes 
two uastrv cakes for tlio {jutcau. Put half a pint of 
rich cream into a bowl with one tt'.blespoonful of 
sugar and two of wine, and whip to a stifl' froth. 
Cover one side of each of the cakes with strawl)eriy 
preserve. Place a cake on a plate, tlio spread side 
up, and heap whipped cream upon it. Place the 
oiher cake upon thetirst, the covered side down. 
iSpnnkle sug r over the cakes or heap whipped 
«;ream upon ihem and serve — a delicious di.>h fur 
dessert. 

From (idleau CAon/iJfy Miss Parloa turned to the 
tilling for the t'o/-«H-rt'ii<. which she ma le as fol- 
lows: Boil a (|Uart of oysters in their own liquor. 
As soon as scum arises, skim it od'. Drain the oys- 
ters and return halt a pint of the liquor totho sauce 
pan. Mix a scant fablespooiiful of Uour with two 
lieaping tablespoonfuls of butter, and when the 
niixtuie is light and creamy, gradually turn upon 
It the boiling oyster liquor. Season well with salt 



and pepper and possibly with a bare suggestion of 
nutmeg or mace. After biiiling up once, ad il three 
tablespoonfuls ot cream and also the oysters. Stir 
over the tire half a niinuto; then fill the coJ-aw-rcnt 
and serve imm>-<iiatcly. 

Miss Parloa impressed upon her hearers the im- 
portance of using "old-process" flour for pufl paste, 
mid also the need of working the butter properly 
and attending carefully to the baking. At the close 
of the lecture the dishes made during the morning 
were served to the audience. 

On the next alternoou .Mis? Parloa opened her 
lecture by giving these recipes for 6clairs: Put a 
cupful of boiling water and half a cupful of butter 
into a large sauce-pan, and when the mixture boils 
up turn in a pint of flour. Beat well with a vege- 
table masher, and when it is pi-rfectly smooth 
and Velvety to the touch remove from the 
lire. Break live eggs into a bowl, and when the 
Iiaste is nearly eold beat the eggs into il with tho 
hand. Only a small part of the broken eggs should 
be added at one time. When the mixture has 
been thoroughly beaten, say in twenty minutes, 
spread on buttered sheets in oblong pieces about 
four inches long and one and a half wide. These 
pieces must bo laid abont two inches apart, and 
must bo baked in a rather quick oven for about 
twenty-live minutes. As soon as they are baked, iC8 
with chocolate or vanilla icing, .and when this is 
cold, cut the (Sclaiia— split Them — on one aide, and 

mi. 

Chocolate Ecl.mrs.— Put a cupfnl and a half of 
milk in a double boiler. Ueat together two-thirds 
of a cupful o( sugar, t%vo eggs, one-fourth of a cupful 
of flour and one-fourth of a teaspoonful of salt, and 
stir this mixture into tlie boiling milk. Cook fifteen 
minutes, sturiug Irequently. When cold, flavor 
with- a teaspoonful of vanilla extract. Put two 
squares of scraped chocolate with five tablespoonfuls 
of powdered sugar and tfireo of boiling water, and 
stir over the lire till smooth and glossy. Dip the 
tops of the dclairs into this coating as thej- come 
from tho oven. When the chocolate icing is dry, cat 
open the Eclairs from the side and till with cold 
cream. If a chocolate flavor be desired with the 
cream, add a tablespoonful of dissolved chocolate. 

Vaxii.i.a Eci.aius.— Makean icing with the whitea 
of two eggs and a lupful and a half of powdered 
sugar. Flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla ex- 
tract. Friist tho f^claire, and, when they are dry, 
open and fill them. They may be tilled with cream, 
sweeiened, flavored with vanilla, and whipped to a 
SI ill froth. 

P'ROSTiNG — The white of an egg. one teacupfnl 
of powdered sugar, a tablespoonfiil of lemon juice. 
Put the w hite into a bowl and add sugar gradually, 
beating with a spoon. When all has been added 
stir in the lemon juice. If tho white of the egg bo 
large it will require a goodly cupful of sugar, and 
if it be small a scant cupful will euflice. The egg 
must not l)e beaten until the sugar has been added. 
This recipe gives a smooth, tender frosting. The 
same auoout of material, prepared wilh the whites 



Practical Cookcri;. 



of the eegs unbeaten, will make one-third less frost- 
ing than It will if tbe esg-s be beaten to a stitt' froth 
before the sugar is added, but the frosting will be 
enouirh smoother and softer to pay for the use of 
additional material. Half a teaspoonful of vanilla 
extract may be used for a tlavor. 

CREAM Cakes.— Make a mixture like that for 
<5.clairs, and drop in spoonfuls upon Ijuttered tins, sn 
that the cakos may be round instead o£ oblong. 
The cakes should be allowed to bake with a rough 
surface and should be tilled with a mixture like 
that for chocolate iSclairs. 

After the Eclairs and cream cakes came queen 
fritters, for which a paste like that f ir Eclairs was 
used. 'I his paste was dropped by tablespoonfuls 
into boiling lard, and cooked uutil the fritteis 
tracked open. Wine and sugar were the accom- 
paniments when the fritters were served, though 
busar alone may be used. 

The chief dish of the afternoon was the gdteau St. 
lionori. This also demanded a paste like Eclairs. 
MissParloa said to butter three Die plates, and after 
rolling putt' or chopped paste very thin, to cover 
the plates with it. She then cut oft the paste about 
an inch from the edge all round the plates and 
spread a thm layer of the cooked paste over the 
pntf paste. A tube about half an inch in 
diameter was put into what is called a pastry 
bag and the remainder of the Eclair paste was 
turned into the bag and pressed through the tube 
on to the edges of the plate, where the pufi paste 
had been cut ott'. Care was taken to have the 
border of even thickness all round. Holes were 
pricked with a fork in the paste in the centre of the 
plates, and then the dishes were put in a moderate 
oven for half an hour. The remaining paste was 
made into balls the size of common marbles — three 
dozen. These were dropped into a pan that had 
been buttered lightly, and were baked fifteen or 
twenty minutes. While they were baking, half a 
cupful of water and half a cupful of sugar were put 
into a small s^aucepan to boil for twenty-five 
minutes. When tbe little balls and 
the paste in the plates bad been cooked, the 
balls were taken up on the tip of a skewer, dipped 
into the syrup, which made them adhesive, and 
placed on tbe border of paste, about two inches 
apart. Miss Parloa c:iutioned her auditors never to 
stir the syrup, else it would become grained and 
worthless. A good plan is to pour part of the syrup 
into a small cup and place tlie cup in hot water. 
That which remains in the saucepan should be kipt 
hot — without boiling — until needed. When all the 
balls bad been userl, four dozen French candied 
cherries were dipped into the syrup and placed be- 
tween the balls. About fifteen cheiries were 
reserved to garnish the centre of t!ie dish, 
"he remaining part of the reciue was as follows : 
Whip a pint and a half of cream to a froth. Soak 
half a package of gelatine in half a cupful cf milk 
for two hours. Pour upon this composition half a 
cupful of boiling milk. Place the pan of whipped 
cream in another of ice water and sprinklo over it 



two-thirds of a cupful of sugar and nearly a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla tlavor. Strain the gelatine upon 
this preparation and stir gently from the bottom 
until a thickening is perceptible. When it will just 
pour, fill the three plates with it and set them lu 
the ice-chest for half an hour. Garnish the top 
with the reinainiug chenies. 



II. 
CROQUETTES, OMELETS. BEEFSTEAK, 
DISHES FOR DESSERT, ETC. 

At her school of cookery Miss Parloa be- 
gan her second lecture with a talk about 
chicken croquettes. For these she said that; 
there would he needed a solid pint of finely 
chopped cooked chicken, a cupful of cream 
or of chicken stock, four e^'gs, a table- 
spoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, a 
tablespoonful of flour, a tablespoonfnl of lemon 
juice, three tablespoonfuls of butter, one tea^ 
spoonful of onion juice and a pint of ciumbs. Slia 
explained that the onion juice was obtained by 
peeling the onion and grating on a large grater, 
using considerable pressure. First, the cream was 
put on to boil. The butter and flour were soon 
mixed together and stirred into the boiling stock, 
and the chicken and seaeoning were added. 
Two minutes later two of the eggs, well beaten, also 
were added. The dish was then, taken from the 
stove and set away to cool. When the mixture was 
cold a spoonful was shaped with both hands into 
the form of a cylinder. 1 he most delicate handling 
was required, for pressure forces the particles apart 
and destroys the shape. The croquettes were 
placed, one by oue, on a deep plate containing two 
beaten eggs, slightly thick, and several spoonfuls of 
the egg were poured over each croquette. When 
they had been well covered they were removed — a 
case-knife being slipped under them— to a board 
covered thickly with crumbs, on which they were 
rolled until wholly crumbed. They were next 
placed in a frying-basket, a few at a lime, so they 
should not touch each other, and plunged into boil- 
ing fat. In about a minute and a half they had 
turned to a rich brown, and were laid ou brown pa- 
per in a warm pan. 

The next topic— a seasonable one— was " Omelets." 
"It is a pity," said Miss Parloa. "tha"" more people 
do not realize how appetizing eggs are in this form 
and how easy it is to make a good omelet. A largo 
proportion of the failures are due to an omissiou to 
have the pan hot enough, or to the use cf too many 
eggs at one time. Wnen too much beaten egg is 
used, part will be cooked hard before tbe rest is 
heated through. For four esgs a pan with a 
diameter of eight inches is large enough; if more 
eggs be used, a larger pan will be needed." 

A plain omelet was made of four eggs, two table- 
spoonfuls of milk, one tablespoonful of butter and 
a teaspoonful of salt. The eggs were beaten and 
the salt and milk added. In tbe meantime the ome- 
let-pan had been on the stove, and had become very 



6 



Iribune Extra No. 85. 



hof. A Kpoonful of hulter was droppeil into it and 
qiiicUly melted. Ininiciliately the beaten ecgs were 
poured in, and the pan was ehakcn viKorously on 
the hdtCchI part of the stovo (somewhat us a corn- 
porperisshakenl until the I'ljg had hejjiin to thicken. 
A few seconds later it cradually hmwned. A knifo 
was run between the cdBe of the omelet and the 
eides of the pan and the omelet was folded and 
tnrned out on a hot dish, to be eaten at onee. 

A cheese omelet was made in much the same way : 
throe tablepooiifuls of grated clucse being Fpritik- 
led upon the rg,'S when they besau to thicken. 
For a chicken omelet a cupful of cooked chicken, 
cut rathiT fine aiul wanned in cream sauce, was 
substituted f<il cheese. This snuco was made of a 
pint ofcnam.a generous t ib'espoonful oT flour, and 
snlt and wpper to taste. The cream was allowed to 
leach the bmling point. Half a cupful was reserved, 
liowever. and mixed with the flour until smoolh. 
Then this mixture was stirred into the boiling 
cream ; the cea'oiiing was added, and after three 
iiiinnti's' bnilirg the sauce ■was finished. Kor a 
Buvorv omelet a little snlt and a tablespoouful of 
chopped parsley were added to the mixture for a 
plain omelet, and it was stated that a little gr.itid 
onion might be u^ed, too. A jelly omelet w.ig nia lo 
like the other, currant jelly being spread upon the 
cggjnst before it was folded. Miss Tarloa reminded 
lior audience that an onio!ot should never bo made 
until wanted, as it is not at all toothsome if allowed 
to stand after coinin2 from the stove. 

For crfime ii la Versailles, Miss Parloa said : " Put 
half a cupful of sugar in a small fryine-pt>n and stir 
until it is a very light brown. Add two tublc- 
snoonfu's of water, and after stirring a moment 
louBcr, mix with the milk. Beat toiiether with a 
spoon seven eggs and half a teaspoontul of salt : 
thou add to the mixture of sugar, water and milk, 
and add half a teaspoonful of vanilla flavor at the 
same t me. Alter buttering lightly a two-quart 
char!otte-russe mould, put this custard in ir. Put 
the mould in a basin of warm (not hot) water and 
bake slowly until the custard is firm in the centre. 
It should take forty minutes; but if the oveu bo 
quite hot, the custard will bake in half an hour. 
Test it by thiustiiiB a knife down in the centre ; lor 
if thecuslaid be not milky, it is dnue. Set away in 
» cold place until seivTtijt time. The cream should 
be ice cold when eaten. Turn onton a flat dish and 
pour caramel sauce over it. (^nr.iinel sauce is ni.ade 
by putting a cupfnlof sugar in a small frying-pan and 
•tirring over the firi> until a dark brown it you like a 
Btrong flavor or till a light brown if you prefer a deli- 
cate flavor ; ad(iiiu a cupful of be iline water and 
fcimmering tiflcen minutes. The same should be set 
away to cool." 

For cheese sonfUrt Miss Parloa used a heaping 
taldispoonful of lb ur, three eggs, a eupfulof grated 
cheese, half a cupful of milk, two tableapooufuls of 
butter, half a te.'isuoonful of salt, a "speck" of 
cayenne. The butter was put in a saucepan, and 
■when it was hot the (lour wasailded and etirred un- 
til smooth but not browuod. Then the milk and 



seasoning were added, aud after two minutes' cook- 
ing the ycjlka of the eg'.'s, well beaten, and th« 
cheese were added. The mixturu was set away, aud 
when it bccuinc cold the whites, beaten to a stitl 
froth, were lublcd. The 80utU6 was turned into a 
buttered cscalloped dish, holding about a quart, and 
baked from twenty to twenty-five minutes. It waa 
terved as soon as it came from the oveu. 

MisB I'arloa opened her lecture the next after- 
noon with a ciissertatioa on beefsteak. "Never ba 
satisfied lo have it cut less than throe-quarUrs of 
an inch thick if you wish it rich, and do not ponud 
the juice out of it. Trim ofl'any suet that, has been 
left on by the bu'cher and dredge the m-at with 
salt, pepper and flour. A double broiler is the best 
utensil tor cooking It. The steak should be kept 
over or before clear coals for ten minutes if to be 
rare, or twelve if to be rather well done. It should 
be turned constantly; hut never thrust a knife or 
fork into it to see how it is cooking. Serve on a hot 
dish with maitro d'holel butter, wuich is made of 
lour lablcspoonluls of butter, one of lemon juico, 
one of vinegar, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 
half a teaspoonful of salt and a quarter of a toa- 
8po<inful of pepper; the nutter being beaten to a 
cieaiu, aud the other ingredients gradually beaten 
into it. The sauco is to he spread on the steak." 

Attention was next given to ihe making of a Ncs- 
selrode puilding. This required a pint can of pine- 
.ipple, a pint of cream, the yolks of ten eygs, a pint 
of shelled ahnond.s, a piut aud a half of shelled 
chestnuts, half a pound of French candied fruit, a 
pint of watir. a pint of sngir, lour tnblespoonfuls 
of wine, one tablespoonl'nl of vanilla flavor, half a 
teaspoonful of salt. After the chestnuts had boiled 
for half an hour the hlack skins were rubbed oil' and 
the meats were pounded m a mort:ir until they be- 
come a paste. Ihe almonds were blanc' cd (placed 
for a moment in boiling, and then in cold, water aud 
rubbed between the haudtj) and treated like the 
cheslnuls. Ihe juice from the pineapple and the 
sugar and water were boiled for twenty minutes io 
a saucepan ; and the yolks of the ejgs were beaton, 
and stirred into the syrup. The saucepan was placed 
in another containing boiling water and the mix- 
ture was beaton wiih an cggbeater until it began to 
thicken. It was then placed in a basin of cold water 
and beaten ten minutes longer. The chcscuut< aud 
almonds were mixed with the cream and rubbed 
through a sieve. To them were added the candied 
fruit and the pineipple, cut fine, and this mixture 
was put with that in the saucepan. The fl-ivors 
and salt were added, aud the pudding was frozen 
like ice-cream. 

Miss I'arloa aunonnccd the ingredients for aneel 
cake to be the whites of eleven eggs, one cupful of 
pastry flour, measured after it has been sifted four 
limes; one and a half cui)fiiU of granulated siuar, 
a teaspoonful ot vinilla flavor an 1 a like quantity 
of cream of t.iriar. She said to sift the flour and 
cream of tartar together. Beat the eyg whites to a 
St itV froth, and beat in the sugar; after which add 
the flavor and flour, stirring quickly and lightly. 



Practical Cookery. 



Beat nntil ready to put the mixture into the oven. 
Use a pan (made for the purpose) that has little legs 
at the top corners, so that when the pan is turned 
upside down on the table, after the baking, a cur- 
rent of air will pass under as well as over the cake. 
Do not grease the pan. Bake for forty minutes in a 
morterate oven. Miss Parloa told her hearers that 
eoveial points must be carefully observed: There 
is no soda used ; the eggs must be beaten to a still 
Iroth ; the sugar should be beaten into the eggs 
gradually ; the cake must bake slowly. 

Scallops were prepared m two ways: First, they 
•were drained, seasoned with pepper and salt, and 
dipped in beaten egg and then in bread crumbs. 
They were put in a fryine-basket and plunged into 
boiling fat, being cooked a minute and a halt. After 
they had stood a while on brown paper they were 
eeryed on a hot dish with a garnish of parsley and 
slices of lemon. 

For creamed scallops Miss Parloa took a quart of 
the fish, a pint of milk, a tablespoonful of flour, 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, and salt and pepper. 
The milk was put in the double boiler, and while 
the scallops were being drained, the butter and flour 
were beaten together until creamy. This mixture, 
together with the seasoning, was stirred into the 
boiling milk, and the scallops were cooked seven 
minutes. 



m. 

FILLET OF BEEF, CARAMEL ICE CKEAM 
CAKES, ETC. 

Miss Parloa began the lesson by cutting the tender- 
loin from a sirloin roa.st, or what is commonly called 
in New- York a porterhouse roast. The piece weighed 
about fourteen pounds. When the tenderloin had 
been removed the flank also was cut off. It was 
stated thiit the fillet — the tenderloin — costs $1 a 
pound, and that if a fillet be wanted it is advisable 
to buy a large roasting piece and obtain the fillet in 
th.at way. The flank may be stuifed and rolled, oris 
good for stewing or braising; the roast Berving for 
a meal some other day. 

With these introJuctory remarks Miss Parloa, 
using a sharp knife, removed every shred of muscle, 
ligiment and thin, tough skin from the fillet, which 
she then skewered into good shape. With the knife 
she drew a line through the centre of the piece, and 
she began larding, having two rows of pork, in- 
serted in the two sides of the fillet, meet at the line 
she had drawn. For the operation a larding needle 
was, of course, used. The strips of pork were 
about three inches long and as large round 
as a lead pencil ; they had been kept some time in 
a bowl of ice to harden. The fillet was well dredged 
■with pepper, salt and flour and put, without water, 
in a very small pan. For half an hour it was kept 
in a hot oven. It was stated that on account of 
the shape of fillets half an hour cooks one weighing 
either two or six pounds. 

Uollandaiseur tomato sauce, oi potato balls, might 



properly have been served with the fillet, but Miss 
Parloa chose white mushroom sauce instead, using 
in its preparation a'can of French muihrooais, a cup- 
ful of white stock, a cupful of cream, three heapmg 
tablespoonfuls of flom-, four of butter, salt and pep- 
per to taste. When the butter had been 
melted the flour was added, the mixture being 
cooked until smooth, but not brown. Gradually 
the stock was added, and when it boileJ up, the 
liquor from the mushrooms was put in; followed 
after five minutes' cooking by the mushrooms, 
cream and salt and pepper. The sauce was allowed 
to boil up once and was then poured around the 
fillet. I 

Rolled flank of beef was next on the programme. 
The flank weighed above five pounds. It was 
carefuUv wiped with a damp cloth and dredged 
with salt aua pepper. When it lay upou the tabls 
oue part was seen to be thicker than the other, anu 
some of the meat was cut from the thick portion 
and laid upon the tuin. Adressiogwas made of a 
cupful of cracker crumbs, a leaspooutul of summer 
savory, a tablespoonful of butter, quantities of salt 
ana pepper, and cold water enough to make the 
cracker quite moist. The meat, having beeu sprea t 
with this dressing, was rolled up, tied and pinned 
in a Cloth. It was placed in a etewpau and just 
covered with boiling water ; and when this water 
had auain reached the uoilinu point the pan was 
set back where the water would only bublde. 
There the meat stood until near the close of the 
lessor. It was finally allowed to cuol iu the water 
iu which it was boiled. When nearly cold it was 
taken up and the cloth was removed, but not the 
strings. Wnen wholly cold the Qiuk was cut iutu 
tender round slices. It was stated that the water 
could bo used as a foundation for a vegetaljle, rice 
ot tomato soup, ot, thickened witn flour, could be 
used as a gravy. 

A cupful cf water, acupinl of granulated sugar 
aud the juice of a lemon were boiled toeetuer for 
half an hour. Miss Parloa dipped tha point of a 
sUewer into the syrup and then into water, and 
finding that the thread thus formed broke oil 
brittle, announced tnat the syinp was ready for 
use on fruit. She pared some oranges, divided iheni 
into eighths, and wiped the parts free ot moisture. 
Part of the syrup was poured into a small cup, 
which was sot in a basin of boiling water The 
pieces of orange were taken up sepiiiately on the 
point of a skewer and dipped into the syrup, and 
were afterward placed du a dish that had been but- 
tered \ighlly. This gave fruit glace. Grapes and 
nuts were prepared the same way. Special pains 
were taken to avoid btirring the syrup, for stirring 
would have spoiled it. 

Before making caramel ice crearj Miss Pailoa said 
that the foundation she was about to prepare was 
suitable for all kinds ot ice cream. Having heated 
a generous pint of milk to the boiling point, she 
stirred into it a cupful of sugar, a scant halt cupful 
of flour and two Bugs, all beaten together; and the 
mixture was allowed to cook twenty miuutea 



8 



Tribune Extra Ko. 85. 



longer, receiving.' a frei|Hont Htirrint;. A small cup- 
ful of Hiigar was next put in a small frying-pan ami 
Btirroil over the firc^unlil it tiirnoa liiiuiil ami bcuau 
to smoke. It was tbun tnrusd into the lioilini; mix- 
ture or fuondution, wbicD was at once imt away to 
crol. When it became cool a qnurt of cieam was 
ailiied. JIiss I'arloa said the llovor of the ice-croani 
could be varied by brownini; the siiiiar mure or les8. 
The mixture was strained into a freezer and di- 
rections for packing were given. 1 he ice was 
broken into pieces about as big us a pint bnvrl imd 
then put into a canvas bag and pounded with a 
mallet until the pieces were as small as a hen's egg, 
ur even smaller. Aftei- the can containing the 
creair. had been properly adjusted in the freezer, a 
layer ot ice five inches deep was packed around it. 
A liberal sprinkling of rock salt on the ice was the 
next act. Alternate layers ol ice and salt were con- 
tinued until the tub was full ; the packing being 
pounded with a paddle. The cranK of the freezer 
being turned a few times, cansed the ice to settle 
somewhat, and more was added. For Miss Parloa 
said that if the packing be solid at first there need 
be uo repacking. She laid especial stress on the fact 
that the water irnst not be drawn oil. It fills all 
the crevices and gives the can a complete cold en- 
velope. Tor a gallon freezer about ti'n quarts of 
ice and three pints of salt are rennirod. With 
more salt it would take less time for fieeziiig. but 
the cream would not be so smooth. At first the 
crank suould not be turned very fast, but the speed 
should be increased as the work becomes haioer. 

When the cream was iiually I'rozeu— as indicated 
by tlio extreme difliculty with which the crank was 
turned— Miss Farloa carelully wiped the salt and 
ice from the cover of the can and removed the ccver 
without uisp'.acing the can itself. The beater was 
removed and the cream scraped from it, and a large 
spoon was worked up and down iu the can until 
the cream was light and the space leit vacant by 
the removal of the beater was filled. The cover of 
tiis can was replaced, a cork was put in the hole 
Ircm which tne handle ot the beater was taken, 
and me trcezer was set aside for a while. When 
she came to serve the cream, Miss Parloa placed 
the can (or a few seconds in a pan of warm water 
so that the beat caused the cream to slip out easily 
npon a dish, iShe said that if cream is to be 
mouliled it shonld bo removed from the can when 
the beater is removed ; and when it is put into the 
n ould it shonld be worked up and down with a 
spoou, so that it shall be lightened, and worked 
into every part of the mould as well. A sheet of 
white paper should bo placed over the cream before 
tne cover of the mould is put on and the mould 
should be buried in fresh ice and salt, 

A delicious sonp, tai ioca cream, was the first disb 
prepared at the iitiual aftcmooa lectuie. aiid in 
its manufacture were used a (mart of whii. ,iouk. a 
pint u( cream, two stalks of celery, an ouion a 
tuird ol a ciipfilof tapioca, two cupfiils ot c<dd 
■waier, a tahlespoontul of butter, a small piece of 
luace, and small iiuantitios ot salt and pepper. The 



tapioca had been washed in advance and soaked 
over night. It was cooked very gently for an hour, 
together with the stuck. The onion and celery 
were cnt into small pieces and pnt on to cook fo( 
twenty minutes with the mace and milK, and then 
the contents of this second dish were strained upon 
the tapioca and stock. The butter, salt and pepper 
were addeil, and the soup served at once. 

Soda biscuit were made of a qnart of nnsifted 
l1our, a taldespoonful of nuear, a taulespoonfnl of 
butter, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one 
teaspoonful of salt, aud milk unough (nearly a pint) 
to make a soft dough. Lard or drippings might 
have lieen used instead of butter, and water instead 
of milk. The dry ingredients were mixed together 
aud lubbcd through a sieve; then tne milk was 
added, anil the mixture stirred with a spoou until 
a smooth paste had been formed. The moulding- 
board having been sprinkled lightly with llour, the 
dough was rolled down to the thickness or about 
lialf an inch. Ic was cnt into small cakes, and 
these were baked fifteen minutes in a very hot oven. 

Fairy gingerbread was made of two cupfuls of 
sugar, four of llour. one of milk, one of bu'ter, a 
tablespoonful of ginger aud three-fourths of a tei- 
spoonful of soda. When the butter had been 
beaten to a cream the sugar was gradually added, 
loUowed, when tne mixture became light, by the 
ginger, tne milk (in n hich the sona had been allowed 
in the meantime to dissolve), and finally the dour. 
Baking pans were larncd upside down, the bottoiis 
were wiped clean and then buttered, and the cake 
mixtnro was spread npon them very thin. The 
gingerbread was baked m a moderate oven until 
blown, and. while still hot, it was cnt into squares 
with a case-knife and slipped oQ of the pan. Miss 
Parloa said that the two important points to be re- 
membered aie. to spread the mixture thin as a 
wafer and cnt it the instant it is taken from the 
oveu. The gingerbreaa should be kept iu a tin box. 
A large disb can be made with the quantities of 
ingreaients given above. 

For Ames cake theie were used three cnptnls of 
pastry Hour, two of sucar, a generous cupful of 
butter, a small cupful of milk, the yolks of five 
eggs and the whites of three, a teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar, half a to:uspoonful ot soda, one teaspoon- 
ful of lemon extract. Miss Parloa said fh»l a 
spoonful and a half of baking powder might be c^iih- 
stituledlor the cream of tdttar and smia, and the 
jnice ot a fiesh lemon fur the teaspoonful of the 
extract. The butter having been beaten t« a 
cream, the sugar was added gradually, then the 
tiavor, the eggs (well beateni. the milk, and finally 
the tluur, with the soda aud cream of tartar mixed 
with It. The whole mixture was stirred quickly 
anil thnrouguly, and baked in two sheets in a iuo>l- 
erate oven for twenty-five or thirty minutes. Tue 
loaves were covered with a frost iug made by stir- 
ring two small cupfuls of powdered sugar into the 
whites of two eggs, seasoning « ith lemon. 

Part of the Ames cake was cut lotn small squafs, 
and after a small portion of the crust had been rn- 



Practical Cookery. 



ino'od frum each, fbe Ciivities were filled with 
jireserveu strawberries. Tliu pieces ot crnut were 
replaced, ami the caKcB. covered with icin;^ made 
after a recipe already published, became Viennois 
cakes. 

Part of ihe Ames cake also was out iuto small 
oblong pieces, which were frosted on the top aud 
sides. Wlieu the frosting had become hard Miss 
Parloa drew dark lines and made dots with a little 
brush that she dippea iuto melted cliocolate, giving 
the cakes the semblance and name of douiinos, 



IV. 
HAM, TONGUE, BAKED BEANS, EGGS, MUF- 
FINS, ETC. 

Miss Parloa liegan her lesson by giving directions 
for baking beans in the Boston style. A quart of 
brans had been treed of stones and dirt, washed 
dean, and soaked overnight iu cold water. The 
water was poured off and enough warm water put 
in to cover the beans. A pound of rather lean salt 
pork was added, and the dish was allowed to boil 
moderately for half an hour. The beans were then 
luruedintoa colander, aud three quarts of cold 
water were pom-ed over them. Half the beans were 
put m a bean-pot, then the pork, with its rind 
scored, and then the rest of the beans, 
and over them was poured a mixtiire 
composed of a teaspoonful of mustard, 
a tablespoon_ful of salt, a t.iblespoonful of mol.asses 
and a cupful of water. Enough boiling water to 
just cover the beans wa.s added, and they were put 
into a slow oven to cook slowly for ten hours. Miss 
Parloa said that it is this slow cooking, with the 
occasional addition of a little water so as to keep 
the beans nearly covered all the time, which makes 
the dish nice. The use of mustard lessens the lia- 
bility of distress from eating of the beans. Where 
pork is not liked, two pounds of corned beef can be 
substituted. When ready for serving, the beans 
have a rich brown color and are moist and whole. 
In this instance the testing of the dish was post- 
po.ied till the next day, because, as already re- 
marked, many hours were needed for the cooking. 

After the disposition ot the beans attention was 
given to the roasting of a ham. 'Ihe ham weighed 
ten pounds. Previous to the lesson it had been 
washed and boiled gently for three hours in just 
euough water to cover. The skin w.is removed .and 
the meat was put in a large baking-pan aud placed 
iu a moderate oven. When it was taken out it was 
arosybrowu. Part of it was served to the ladies 
with champagne sauce, made by th's recipe : 
" Mix thoroughly a tablespooiiful of butter with 
one of tlour. Set the saucepan on the tire, and stir 
constantly until the mixture is dark brown ; then 
pour into it half a pint of boiling gravy (the liquor 
ill whieh pieces of lean meat have boiled until it. is 
very rich). Pour iu this gravy .slowlj-, and stir 
slowly and continually." After the sauce has boiled 
up ouce, seasou it well with pepper aud salt, aud 



strain ; then add half a cupful of champagne or 
wine. 

For eggs hrouUU Miss Parloa cut two mushrooms 
into dice and fried them for a aiinnte in a table- 
spooutol of butter. She beat together half-a-dozeu 
eggs, a teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper and half a 
cupful of cream aud put them in a saucepan. The 
mushrooms aud two tablespoonfuls of burter were 
added to these ingredients, .and the mixture was 
stirred over a moderate tiro until it began to 
thicken. It was then taken from the fire and beaten 
rapidly until the eggs had become quite thick and 
creamy. Slices of toast were spread upon a hoc 
platter aud the mixture was heaped upon ihem. A 
garnish of points of toast— tliiu slices cut iuto 
triangles— w.as added. 

Coddled eggs proved to be a simple but palatable 
dish. The eggs were put iu a warm saucepan and 
covered with boiling water, and were kept for ten 
minutes where thej' remained hot but did not boil. 
By this method both (he whites and yolks were well 
cooked. 

Eggs SHJ- le plat, ioi which dishos are made ex- 
pressly, were prepared in this way: A little disii 
was heated and buttered, and two eggs were broken 
into it, care being taken not to breiik Ihe yolks. 
After a sprinkling of salt and pepper, half a te.a- 
spoonful of butter, broken into small pieces, was 
dropped upon the eggs, and the dish was kept iu 
the oven, in a moderate heat, until the whites oC 
the eggs had become "set "—say five minutes. Miss 
Parloa said a dish should be allowed for each per- 
son, and that the tiavor might be varied by .sprink- 
ling a little finely chopped ham or parsley upon the 
plate before breaking the eggs. 

Still another mode of serving eggs— m cream- 
was shown. Sis e.ggs were boiled for twenty min- 
utes. From a pint of milk half a cupful was taken 
and mixed with a generous tablespoonful of flour 
until it was smooth; aud as soon as the remaining 
milk had been heated to the boiling point this mix- 
ture was stirred into it. Pepncr aud salt were 
added, and the s.auce was boiled for three minutes. 
Six slices of toast were laid on a hot dish, and upon 
each was spread a layer of sauce, then pan of the 
whites of the eggs, cut into thin strips, and then 
part of the yolks, rubbed through a sieve. This 
operation was repeated, and finally a thud layer of 
sauce was spread. The dish was placed in the oven 
for three minutes, and was afterward garnished 
with parsley. 

At the usual afternoon lecture a fresh beef 
tongue was washed, aud a trussing needle, 
with strong twine attached, was run 
through the roots and end of it, the two parts 
being drawn together and the twine tied. I ho 
tongue was covered with boiling water aud boiled 
gently lor two hour.s, alter which it w.as drained. 
Six tablespoonfuls of butter were put in a braismg- 
pan, and when the pan was hot, half a small carrot, 
half a small turnip aud two oniops, all cut fine, also 
were put in. 1 hey were cooked five minutes, bemi} 
stirred all the while, and were then drawn to oue 



10 



tribune Extra jVo. S5. 



sifio. TtM" tonpne was rolled in flniir and put in the 
pm, and as sonn as it bad been brownest on one 
^ide. It was turned and browned on the other. A 
quart of the water in wliieh it was boiled was 
i.dded. as were also a small piece of cinnnmnn. a clove, 
a houiinet of swci^t h'-rbs (two spriRsof thyme, two 
b;ij- leaves, two of summer savory, two leaves of 
f.fio and two sprigs of parsley tied together), and 
salt anil pepper. The toncne was covered and 
eodlied two hours in a slow oven. It was fieqnently 
basted with the gravy in the pan and with salt, 
I'epperann flour. When it had been cooking an 
lionr and a half, the juico of half a lemon was 
added to the gravv. When the tongue was cooked 
it wiis taken up and two spoonfuls of glaze (con- 
somm(^ boiled down) were melted and poiirert over 
it. if was then put in a heater while a tablcsDoon- 
ful of oornstareh was mixed with a little cold 
water and stirred into the boiling gravy, of which 
there was a p;nt. This gravy was boiled a moment, 
Btrainei! and poured over the tongue, which was 
finally garnished with parsley. 

After the tongue came an orange pudding, for 
which these ingreiients were used : Six eggs, sis 
large or eieht small sweet oranges, a cup and a half 
of granulated sugar and six taldespoonfuls of the 
powileied, a quait of milk ami half a paclcage of 
gelatine. The gelatine had been soaked for two 
hours ill a cupful of the milk previous to the lec- 
ture. The remaining milk was put into a double 
boiler, and tie yolks of the eggs and the grann'atcd 
s-ugar were beaten together. When the milk began 
to buil ihe gelatine was stirred into it. and theu 
the beaten yolks and sugar. The mixture 
w.as stirred constantly for about five 
minutes, -when it began to thicken, and 
it was thon removed fmra the stove to a cool place. 
The or.aiipes were pared, divided into cijjhths, and 
freed of seeds and tough p.aits, and were put into a 
large glass dish. When ihe custard had cooled it 
was poured over them, and the puddins was put ;n 
a cool place. (It would have been allowed tore- 
main there six or eight hours if the ladies had not 
wished to taste it.) The whites of the eggs were 
bealtn to a stiflfmtli and the powdered sugar grad- 
ually added and beaten, ami the pudding was cov- 
ered with this mixture. 

Several kinds of mufiBns were made. The recipes 
arc subjoined : 

Gl£ANfI,ATFD WlIE.VT MfFFIXS. — Cso 000 aild 3 

lialf cupfulsof line, granulated wheat (such .is is 
prepared by the Health Food Company), two t.able- 
i-I.oi>i:fuls of sugar, one teaspoonfiil of crcam-of- 
tartar, half a teaspoonfiil of soda (or one and a 
lialf teaspiionfuls of baking powder may be substi- 
tuted for these last two ingredients), half a t"?a- 
epoiinfut of salt, a cupful of milk, one-third of a 
cupful of water and an egg. Mix the, dry ingredi- 
ents together. 15eat tht egg till lii:ht, add the 
milk and water to it, aud stir into the dry mixture. 
Hak*; in ''Uttered mutEn-paiis in a quick oven for 
twenty-five minutes. A dozen muflins can be r-iade 
■with the ^.ua■„tlties E'V-y. above. Flour U'ad" of 



wpole wheat bv the Franklin Mills can bo used in- 
stead of granul.a'ed wheat. 

GnAHAM -MiFFiNS.— luto a sieve pat half a pint of 
flour, two tcaspooiifuls of erenm-of-tartar and oiia 
of saleiatus. Mix the three ingredients thoroughly 
aud sift them into a bowl containing one and a halt 
pints of graham, half a cupful of sugar and a tea- 
spoon ful of salt. Mix all thoroughly while dry, and 
add two well-beateu eggs and a pint of milk. Fill 
inuffin-eups about two-thirds to the top, aud bakB 
in a quick oven. 



V. 

BO.nED TURRET. QUlNuE ICED PUDDING. 

AND OTHER DESSERT. 

Jliss Tarloa departed Irora herciistom of preparinR 
a number of dishes, and showed instead how to bone 
a turkey. Her liist remark to hor audience was to bn 
earoliil to ulitain a turkey that had not bem frozen, 
leeause Ireezing makes Ihe llest.. teareasily. Shoalao 
said to see to it that every part is whole, for a 
uieak ill the skin would bo an insuperable defect. 
She cat ull the legs, at the joiuts, and the tips of the 
wings. T!".e biril >vas not drawn. I'l-ioing it on its 
breast, Mis<i I'arloa. using a sbarp boiiiug-knife, cut 
in a straight line through to the bone, from the 
neck down to ihat part of the bird where there is 
bnt little flesh— wliere it is all skin aud fat. Begin- 
ning at the noek she ran the kuife net ween the 
meat and bones until the came to tne wiug, enltiug 
the ligaments that Hold the bonps together aud 
the teudous that hold tlie fiesli to the bones. 
With the thuiiil) and forelinger sb-jcarofnlly pressed 
the meat from the smooth bone ; separating theliga- 
nients when she CHU'e to the joint and reuioi lug the 
bone. She cautionea her auditors nut to try to take 
out the bono at the next joiut, as it pave the turkey 
a more natural shape and would not be in tho way 
when carving. She next ouerated near the wish- 
bone, aud when it was free from tho llesh. ran the 
knife between tun sides and the llesh, always using 
tho fingers to press Ihe meat from tlie smooth bones, 
as the breastbone and lower part of the siites. 
Miss I'arloa worked around the legu the same as 
around the wings, being exceedingly careful when 
at the joints not to cut the skin. Drawing the leg- 
bones out caused that part of the biid to turn inside 
out. Tne bird itselt was turned over, and the kuife 
was plied sk'lfully on the other side, the skin lining 
finally drawn from tho hreast-bono andiheknllR 
run between the fat and bone at the riiinp. Tho 
small bone at the extremity was not touched, as il 
helps to krep tbeskoweis In place. '1 !ie ilcsb was 
slowly removed from the skeleton aud .turueU right 
aide out anuiD. 

Soineof thcsodirectionsmay appear very complex, 
but all were clear as given by Mins Parloa while 
she suited her action to her words. Into the flcsu 
she riilibed a little pepper and two tablespoonfulg 
of salt, and the whole cavitv was then tilled with 
dressing. The bai"k. neck and vent were sewed np 
and tbiO turkav wa.^tJU;>ll^ll the same as if not bone<ii 



Practical Cookery. 



11 



It was next pinued firmly into a strong piece of 
cotton cloth, wliicli was drawn especially fight at 
the legs; for tbis is the Droailesc part, and unless 
tne precaution \>o taken, the shape will not be 
pood. Miss Parloa went on to say that the oird 
wouhl OB steamed three hours, and then olaced on 
a buitered tin sheet anil nut iu a baking- pan, and 
alter b-ing basted well with butter, salt, pepper 
and flour, would bercasted au hour. She said it 
ought to be basted every teu trinutes— twice with 
stock. When cold, the skewers aud strings were to 
be reuiOTed aud the turkey uarniahed with aypic 
jelly, cooked beets and paisley. In regard to carv- 
ing, she said tocutoflihe wings, then two thick 
slices from the neck, where it will be fal> and tlien 
cut thin slices. Jelly should be served on each 
plate. 

The filling need was nip.de of these ingredients: 
1 be tiesh of a chicken weighing four pounds, half a 
pound of clear silt pork, a pound of clear veal, a 
small cuofal ot cracker crumbs, acu,.Jnlof broth, 
two and a half tablespooufuls of salt, half a tea- 
sooouful of penper, the same quantity of sage, a 
teaspoonful each ot thj me, fummer savory and 
Bvieet marjoram, and, if one likes, a tablespoonful 
of capers, a quart of oysters and two tablesjioonfuls 
of onion juice (obtained by gratins^). All the meat 
was uncooked and there were no tough pieces. It 
was cliopped rcr»/ line, and wnen the other ingredi- 
ents had been added, all were mixed thoroughly. 
Mios parloa remarked thai if oysters were used, 
half the veal mast be omitted. She said further 
that chi;ken cuuld be substituted for veal, which 
was recommended simply because of its cheapness. 

Aspic jel'.y was made ot a pml and a half of clear 
stock (beef if for amber jelly, or ch'cken or veal if 
fur white), half a cupful of cold water, the white 
of an egg, half a box of golatiue, a large slice of 
onion, two cloves, u dozen peppercorns, a stalk of 
celery, salt to taste. The geiaiine was soaked in 
the cold water for two honrs; the white of the egg 
was beaten together with a spoonfnl of the stock. 
The ingredients all were then put together a ad al- 
lowed to heat to the boiling point, and weie tlieu 
set back for twenty minutes where they would 
only simmer. The liquor was strained through a 
napkin into a mould and put away to harden. Miss 
Parloa said that aspic jelly can be made by wash- 
ing the bones of the turkey aud chicken, covering 
them witn cold waler, and boiling this down to 
three pinto; then straining and setting away to 
cool, and iu tlie morning skimming oil all the fat 
and ttiruiug oil the clear stock. But the bones may 
be nsed iu,itead lor a soun. 

Sliss Parloa said that althongh plain loast turkey 
has a better flavor than boned turkey, the latter is 
an excellent dish for occasions where it is imprac- 
ticable to provide any food that cannot bo eaten 
without the use ot a knife. A turkey weighing 
eight or nine pounds before l>cing boned will gener- 
ally be suliicient for thirty persons at a party ; and 
it the supper be very elaijorate, such a turkey may 
Buflice for seventy -Qve persons. 

At the afternoon lesson a number of dishes 



for dessert were made, among them a quinca 
iced pudding. Throe eggs were beaten very light, 
aud when a cnptul and a half of sugar had been 
added the beating was continued until the mixture 
was foamy. Two copfuls of sifted pastry flour 
were rut into a sieve aud a teaspooufnl of cream- 
ot-tartar and halt a teaspobnful of soua were 
added. Half a cupl ul of cola water was stirred into 
the beaten eggs and sugar, and the fiour was sifted 
into the same bowl. A double oval mould, taper- 
ing, was brought into use at this stage. It was 
about four iuches high, and the measurement at the 
top, where it openen, was six inches by eight. The 
space between the outer and inner walls was about 
an inch and a half. When this mould had oeen 
buttered the cake mixture was poured into it. to bo 
baked slowly for forty-ttveminntes. It was allowed 
to stand in the mould until nearly cold, and then 
turned out upon a flat dish, into the whites of two 
egg^ a cupful and a halt of powdered sngar was 
beaten, seasoned with half a teaspoonful of vanilla 
extract. The cake was iced with this, and set awaf 
to dry. In the meantime a generous quurt of cream, 
a cupful of sugar, a pint of soft custard and a table- 
spoiintul of vanilla flavor weie combined and frozen 
like ice cream. A large tumbler of quince jelly was 
spread on the inside of the cake, and the frozen 
cream was put iu the centre, while whipped cream 
was heaped ou the top and at the base, making an 
elejiant dish. Miss Parloa said that the cream 
should not be put into the pudding until just before 
it was to oe seived. 

Blanc-mango was one of the dishes on the pro- 
gramme. Mies Parloa said it coula be made iu a 
variety of w.ays. In this instance she would use 
sea-moss farina as the distinctive ingredient. A 
level tablespoonful was required, and a quart of 
milk, three tablespooufuls of sugar, a teaspoonful 
of Tauilla flavor aud half a teaspoonful of salt also 
were used. The milk having been put into a 
double-boiler, the farina was sprinkled into it. Tho 
milk was stiired all the while, and while it waa 
heating it was often stiired. When it boiled up 
and lokea white the sugar, salt and flavor were 
added; then the mixtnre was strained, turned into 
a mould that had been dipped into cold water, aud 
set away to harden. Miss Parloa said it ought to 
stand for three hours. 

For a cottage pudding Miss Parloa softened a 
sponful of butter aud beat it to a froth, together 
with a cupfnl of sugar and two eggs. A cupful of 
milk was added; also a pint of Hour, into which a 
teaspooufnl of soda ard two tcidpoonfuls of cream- 
of-tartar had beeu stirred. Tho mixture was fla- 
vored with lemon aud baked in two shallow dishes in 
a moderate oveu for half an hour. It was stated 
that to tho minds of some people it is an improve- 
ment to sift sugar over the pudding before bakiug. 

A delicate Indian pudding was easily made. A 
quart of milk was boiled in a donble-boiler, and 
into it were sprinkled two heaping tablespooufuls 
of Indian meal, the milk being stirred all the while. 
The cook'ng was continued, with frequent ttirring, 
for twelve miaut-cs. In the meaatime three eggs, a 



12 



Tribune Extra 2Co. S.".. 



tonspoonful nf salt, fmir talilespooiifuls of Bngar 
and half a teiispoonful of ninnor nero lipaten to- 
Kcthcr. A laMeHpivonfiil of Imttor was stirroil into 
tlio mill; and meal, nud these inyredionts ^lere 
potirod K'''diially upon theecir mixtaco. The puJ- 
dini; WHS liaUi'd Hlowiy for an btmr. 

Gpinian rnddini: siiuce was made of thrne ege*. 
half a cnpfnl of watoi, a cupful of suL'ar, oue table- 
upoonfulof h.itter andllirecof brandy. A teu- 
fpoonfiil of vanilla e::tract can he nuhstiiutod for 
llie liqnor. The sncar and w.itiir were boiled in a 
sancei);ui fur a quarter of an honr. The yolKS of tlie 
ep'^a were brfatcn and stirroil into ihi^ iiyrup. The 
saneepm was next put into another basin oontaiu- 
inc hot water, and the mixture was braten with a 
■whisk till it begau to thicken : tlien the butter waa 
added, and the biandy ond whites of tho egixa, 
!>• aten to a still fr.th. "With a luiuote's btiriiDR 
the sauce was finislicn. 

Lemon Pu:s.— Lino two deep tin plates with » 
paste rolled very thin. Set in a cool place until 
the lillinf: is made, licat to a fioth three teacnpfuls 
ofsnirar, the rind and jnice of ihioe lemons, and 
the yolks of six esL'S ; then beat the whiles tn a 
Blitl froth and stir into the snjjai and other insredi- 
ents with three tablesroontuls of milk. Till tho 
two plates with this mixture and t)ako in a moder- 
ate oven forty-live minutes. Thoroufih beatingof 
the mixture and the slow bakini; are absolutely 
iiecessary to the success of the dish. 



VL 
KNTRF.ES AND SOUPS. 

Previous to licr lecture Miss Parloa cleaned a plump 
chicken and put it on to boil, allowing a pint of 
•n-iitor for ca( h pound of the chicken's weight. 
AVhcn the water hud been licated to the boiling 
point It was carefully skimmed, and the kettle was 
set back where the meat would einimcr until verj* 
tender— say for an houi and a halt. 'J he chicken 
waa then skinned, and after the llesh had beeh re- 
n oved from t'.ie bones the latter were put back into 
tho kettle to boil until the liijuor had been reduced 
(ine-nalr. The luinor was strained and set away to 
cool during the nigut. 

At the openiug of the lecture on this day the fat 
•was skiuinied from this hardened lienor and the 
jelly remaininc was turned into a clean .sancoi an, 
JNliss Parloa being watchful that no sediment fol 
lowed. Sfiying that for each qrart of tho jelly 
there should now be used a quarter of a package of 
gelatine (soaked for an hour in half a cupful of cold 
water), twelve ipcjipercorns. four cloves, a small 
piece of mace, a stalk of celery, an onion, the white 
and sliidl of an egg. and paltand pepper to taste, 
Jlibs Parloa added tiio proper quantities, and after 
Jolting tho ingredients tioil np once, she set the 
saucepan back where they would eiiimior for 
twenty minutes. The jelly was tlieu strained 
through a napkin. A layer of it, thrce-iiuarters of 
an inch thick, was put into a tbrcopint nionia and 
into ice-water to harden. The Mesh of the chicken 
was cut into long, thin strips, which wcro scaaonod 



<rell with salt and pepper and laid lightly in the 
mould when tho jelly had become hard. Cool 
liquid jelly was poureil over the meat and was har- 
dened l>y meaosof cold. When tne dish wasre^dy 
for ferviuL' the moubl was diprod into warm watet 
and turned upside down on a platter, its contents 
sliding out in one mass. A garnish of parsley im- 
proveil Its appearance ; and it iras stated that Tar- 
tar or mayonnaise s.iuco also inigut bo added. 

The next entree orepared was landis' tongne in 
jelly. Three tongues, having been boiled until 
tender (about two hours), were skirned. and theie 
roots were trimmed oil. A quart and liaif a pint of 
aspic jelly in liiiuid slate was at hand, and enough 
was poured into a two qiiait mould to cover the 
bottom an inch dee?. It was allowed to harden, 
and in the ineantiiiio leaves were cui out of cooked 
beets with a tancy vegetable cntter. They were 
carefully laid upon the jelly lu the mould, as a 
garnish, and liquid jellv— pertiaps three tablespoon- 
fiils— was gently punred in to hold the leaves in 
place. When this jelly was solid, enough more 
was poured in to cover the pieces of beet, and it 
vras allowed to become very hard. Then the 
tongues were imt in, together with halt a.cnpful of 
jelly, to hold them in place. .Some time later tho 
remaining jelly was added, aud the dish was pit 
where it would become eolia. It was served like 
the chicken in jelly, only the garnish on the platter 
consisted of pickled Deets as well as paisley. 

A white fricassee uf chicken next engaged the at- 
tention of the class. A chicken weighing about 
four iioiiiids was boiled nntil tender, i he meat was 
freed ol skin and fat and cut into hanilsonie p'ecea. 
Three tablc8(ionufuls of butter was put iulo a fry- 
ing-pan, and when hot it was joined by two 
lableapoonfuls of Hour. The mixture was stirred 
until smooth and frothy, and there was gradually 
added a pint of the lujuor in which the chicken bad 
boiled. After five minutes' simmering, salt and 
pepper were aildcd. The chicken also was sej- 
eoued, and was then heated in this sauce for about 
eight minutes, w hen halt a cupful of milk or cream 
was added. Tue dish required no further cooking 
than to boil np once. A mound of mashed and 
browned potato was put upon a platter and the 
chicken was disposed around it ; a garuish of part- 
ley being linnlly added. 

Soups were next iu order. Tho first was naock 
bisque. Three piut.1 of milk— less halt a cupful — 
were put into a double kettle to boil, and a quart 
of canned tomato was untonto 8le>». The milk 
retieived was mixed smoothly w ith a largo table- 
spooiilui of Hour, and this paste was at once stirred 
into the boiling milk, which was to i;ook ten min- 
ntes. A large tablespoonful of soda was added to 
the tomato, which was stirred well at this point 
nud was aitcrward rnbbed tbrongh a strainer lino 
enongli to retain the seeds. A piece ..t butter the 
size of an egg and proper quantities of salt and 
perpcr were added to the boilirg milu, and finally 
the tomato was added. Miss Parloa (aid that i( 
only halt the quantities were nped throughout, the 
tomato should be stirred well before It is taken from 



Practical CooJcenj. 



13 



the can, be>.aasB the liquia portion is more aciil 
than the solid. 

For tomato sonp a quart of canned tomatoes and a 
pint of hot water weie heated to the hoilinsj; point, 
and into them were stirred two hoapiiiKapoonfiils of 
Hour, one of butter and one of toiuatu, mixed to- 
gether. A teapj-oonlul each of salt and sugar waj 
added, and after boiliug for a quarter of an hour 
Iheioup was rubbed through a sieve. With it 
■were served little squares of toasted bread— the 
bread havint; been cut into thin slices, battered, cut 
into squares, and browned in a quick oven, butter- 
ed side up. 

Mi-'S Parloa omitted her asu.al afternoon lecture 
and gave a talk on " Marketing " inetead. 

A side of beef was placed nuon the long aemon- 
slration taVde, and a Jetierson Market butcher sep- 
arated it into the difierent "cuts" under Miss 
Parloa's direction. When the beef had been cut 
into the " hind " and " fore " quarters. Miss Parloa 
explained that it would be mncU easier to keep the 
cifferent cutt. in mind if a clear idea of tue form 
and posiiioQ of the bones ot the aniiial were ob- 
tained. It was also a good plan to get the shape 
and direction of the backbone firmly fixed in the 
memory, aud to take that as a starting point in 
learning the cuts. 

"The muscles ot the neck aud legs and certain 
portions of the animal's body are used constantly,'' 
Miss Failoa continued, "aud as they are contin- 
ually contractingandexpandiug, they become much 
tougner than other portions of the body. But they 
are also richer and more juicy than those portions 
which are tenderer, because there is a freer flow of 
blood and nntiiment to the mujcles that are more 
often exercised. Keeping that in mind, and think- 
ing of tb 3 animal as standing and moviug, it la easy 
to remember what portions are touglier but more 
nutritious than others, and what portions are ten- 
derer but less nutritious tlian others. This is the 
loin, as you see. and this the round, while from the 
loin extends this piece called the Hank and inside 
flank. The inside flank is used largely for coiniug, 
biazin? or rolling and stuffing. For stuffing, roll it 
up aitor making a dressing for it of rolled crackers, 
salt and pepper, and take oft all the suet, while 
leaving the fat, as the suet gives a disagreeable 
flavor to it. Tie the roll in a cloth, just covei it 
■with boiling Water and let it simmer slowly till 
cone. Then lei it get perfectly cold before cutting 
it in slices. Imbedded in this toll of suet hero are 
the kianeys, which are nutritious and palatable it 
pioperly cooked. Beneath the kidneys and suet is 
the tenderloin. This is a layer of flesh which is 
used scarcely at all in muscular action and is kept 
very warm by tnese thick layers of suet, so that 
there is very little juice or nutrition in it. You 
have to lard it or use highly spiced s.auces or dress- 
ings to make it palatable, and it is not fit, to be 
given to sick persons. For corued beef the more fat 
you have on it the better, as the fat keeps the nu- 
tritious juices of the meat from being drawn out 
into the brine. So I think that it is really more 
economical to buy a very fat inece ol beef lor corn- 



ing, although none ot your family will eat fat 
corned beef, because von save so much of the nu- 
trition and can try out the fat after il is corned lor 
use as shortening and for other similar purposes. 
If you wish to make clear houp from the lower part 
of the leg, do not boil much bone or gristle witli 
th-j meat, and do not boil it long, because the lima 
of the bone will noon begin to dissolve and will 
whiten the soup. I should think, however, that the 
whitened soup obtained from boiling the bones 
would be good for chihUeu on account of the liuio 
which it would contain. The eud of the loin to- 
ward the ribs you see grows gradually smaller. 
It is called the small porterhou.se. The other 
end is called the larga porternouso. Wheu iho 
hindquarter and about seven ribs from the fore- 
fjuarter are cut uS, you have about all the choice 
portions of the animal. There is very little demand 
for the other parts, because they are tongh. If you 
are going to give a dinner-party and wish to have a 
fillet of tenderloin, I would advise you to ijuy a 
very laige piece of the loin, which you can get for 
a reasonaijle price, between Lio and 30 cents a 
pound, according to time and place. Then use 
the layer of tenderloin for your fillet, and you will 
have all the rest to ute for steaks or for a fine 
roast. For the fillet alone you would have to pay 
$1 a pound and would have nothing left. Ot ^ouree 
that plan is economical only for a large family 
which can soon consume a large roast or a number 
ot large steaks. If you are not going to give a 
largo dinner-party where yon wish to have spe- 
cially handsome dishes, don't think about 
a fillet. Don't give it to your owu fam- 
ily or especially to your children, for, 
as I have already said, it contains no nutri- 
ment. If you have a large family you will find it 
more ecouomiual to buy the flank or ribs that ex- 
tend from the siiloin, or a rib-roast, together with 
the roast. For yon get the w hole piece at a much 
lower price than that w hich you must pay for the 
roast with the ends cut oil, and you can use tho 
best part for the meat, while the flank or ribs you 
cau use for corning, boiliug, potting, brazing, roll- 
ing or for soup stools. It is important to reniemtior 
thai, steak will not be tender unless it is cut across 
the grain of the nient by the tiutcher. There is a 
layer on the top of the loin the Ubro of which runs in 
a different direction from the test of the loin. As 
steaks are commonly cut this is tough butjnicy aud 
nutritious. If it is cm oft separately from the rest 
and across its grain ii makes oue of the finest, teu- 
derest and at the same time the juiciest and most 
nutritious steak in the whole animal. There is 
another small portion which is Justus good, how- 
ever. It is a cube of meat on tne top of tne round, 
near where the loin begins. This is the best pieco 
in the animal for making beef-tea for invalids. 
1 ho ronnd, as you see, is divided by the bone and 
a thin layer of fat into an upper and a lower por- 
tion. The lower portion is always tough, as its 
muscles are much nsea. The upper portion is ten- 
der and makes better steaks, while the lower parti 
is better lor potting ana similar uses. 



11 



Irihune Extra No. 85. 



"Tlio final out frniri the foro (|nr»r(er tjivcs the rib 
roasts, nliicli uro ecouumicul fur a miiall faciiily. 
At the gcvoutU rib, wUoro the slioiiUlcr bluilo beKUis 
to appear, tlio meat m uut su tetulcjr. Those delicate 
jiirien callotl tliB skirt aio goud for rolliii;; and lor 
beef-tea and sliuuld bo cooked olowly for a long 
time. The best animals are those which have a 
large nmoQiit oi moat — not fat, necessarily — iu 
vroportioD tu the amount nf bones. The meat is of 
a liner jiraiu and is more juicy and nutiitiuas in 
huch an animal than in one with larfii bones and 
comparatively Utile moat, t'ross-rib meats, as they 
arc called, aro very nice, many think, for sonp, 
Btows, brazing cr pot-roasts. Iu mutton and veal 
tue cutlets come from the ribs and from I bo legs. 
The skin of the cutlets from tbo leg should be 
iintclioil all around to prevent the meat from buliE- 
iue oat whtu broiling, as it often douu." 



VIL 

CROQUETTES, CHOPS. VEGKTABLES, EOTAL 
DIPLOMATIC PUUUING, ETC. 

A talk about croquettes occupied the first h.alf 
licur of Miss Parloa's morning public olject lesson. 
Directions for making chicken croquettes havo 
already been given. Lobster croquettes aro 
made in much tbo same vfay. When t«o tablo- 
spoonluls of butter and half a tnblesnoonful of flour 
have been cooiicd together until they bubble, there 
should b • aildod a scant half cupful of cream or 
vater, the moat of a two Dinind lobster, chopped 
fine, and salt and pepper to suit the taste. When 
these iugreilii'nts become hot an agg, well beaten, 
should be added. The mixture should be coided, 
and portions of it should be shaped like cylinders, 
dipped into beaten egg and cracker ciuiubs,aud fried. 

Sneet potato croquettes are an especially palata- 
ble sweet entr6e. Miss Parloa said. To make them 
she mixed together two cupfuls of cold boiled and 
grated sweet potato, three tablcsnoonfuls of mellod 
butter, a toaspiionful of lemon juice, one-fourth of 
a cupful of cream, one and a half teaspoonfuls of 
salt, one-fourth of a teaspoonful of pepper, one 
icaspoimful of suear and a sliulit grating of uut meg. 
The mixture was beaten until light andsincioth. 
I'oitimis of it were shaped in the same way as for 
lobster croquettes, rolled lightly in crumbs, then 
dipped info the beaten ecrg (two eggs wore used), 
rolled once in crumbs, and fried a minute and a half 
in boiling fat. Jliss Parloa suggeslod that the cro- 
quettes may be served, if one clioose, with a pint of 
thin cream, sca-soned lightly with salt, pepper and 
nutmeg .ard heated just to the boiling point. 

Several French chops were seasoned with pepper 
and suit, dipped in melted butter and rolled in hne 
bread crumbs, and broiled over a bright lire — not 
cxtrcraily blight, because the cruml>s are easily set 
alire. I'otato balls— cut from cooked potatoes 
■with a vegetable scoop and fried in washed butter 
or in chicken fat— may be served with these chops. 
On thi^ occasion, however. Miss Parloa pared a 
dozen potatoes of medium size and, after al- 
lowinj; them to stand iu water for some miuutos to 



freshen them, boiled them for a quarter of an hour. 
She added a i.iblespooiilul of salt anil continued the 
boiliuL' for lificen iiiiiiutes. Every drop of water 
was then poured off and the saucepan was shakeii 
in a current of cold air. '1 he potatoes vroie mashed 
until fine and light, and to them were added a 
tablcspoonful of butter aud half a tablespoouful of 
salt. Alter a good beating an addition wai made 
of half a cuplul of boiling milk. The potato was 
beaten like cake for a considerable time, and when 
served with the chops, or cutlets, it was delicate. 

'i hat homely vegetable, tbo carrot, can easily bo 
prepared iu a most toothsome way. as was soon 
shown. Two large carrots were scraped and cut 
into dice, balls, aud long, slender strips, and these 
were cooked for an hour in a kettle contain ins two 
quarts of water. The water was then poured oft, 
and I no pieces of carrot were put into a saucepan 
tOL'C'her with hall a cupful o£ white stock, one tea- 
spoonful sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, and a litt!e 
pepDor. Alter ten minutes' simmeriug, a table- 
spoonful of butter was added, and the dish was 
allowed to boil up once. Most of it was serveJ at 
once ; part was put aside for awhile. 

1 or peas 4 la Fran^uhe Miss Parloa used a pan of 
French peas. They were heated and drained. A 
tablespoon I'ul of Hour, twice as much butter and 
balf a teaspoonful of sugar were stirred in a sauce- 
pan until thoroughly mixed. The poas were added, 
and the stirring over the lire was continued for 
live minutes, when a cupful of cream was added. 
The pr.is wore sininierod fur ten minutes. Had 
they been fresh peas they would havo boiUd until 
tender instead of being simnlv boated throuuh. 
Upon the dish were hcap;rd little groups of the 
faucifully-shaped pieces of carrot that bad been 
reserved. 

In the afternoon the audience first gave at- 
tention to the making of a royal dip'omalic pud- 
ding. Half a box of gelatine had been soaked an 
hour or more in half a cupful of cold water, and 
upon it was poured two-thirds of a pint of boiling 
water. Half a p;nt of wine, the juice of a lemon 
and a cupful of sugar were added, and the mixture 
was stiired and slr.iiued. Upon the table stood two 
moulds, one holding two quarts and the other halt 
as much. A layer of jolly was put into the larcrer 
would, which was at once placed on ice. When the 
jelly becarao hard it was garnished with candied 
cherries cut in two. A few spoonfuls of the liquid 
jelly — wliicu Miss P.arloa was careful to ascertain 
was not hot— were poured into the mould to hold 
the cherries in position, and afterward eiioush more 
was poured in to cover them, When all the jelly 
had hardened, the smaller mould w. is set into tho 
larger and the space between tho sides of tbo two 
was filled with jelly, lee was packcij into tho 
small mould, and the large mould was 
sot in a basin of ice-water. When tho last 
of the jelly had become solid tho ice was removed 
from tbo small mould, and warm water took its 
pl.ace. This maue it easy to lift the mouM from the 
jelly a momrnt later. The space loft vacant was 
iilled with a custard made of these materials: Half 



Practical Cookery. 



15 



a cupful of gelatine (previously soaked in half a 
capful of cold -water), half a cupful of sugar, the 
yolks of five eggs, two tablespoonfuls of wine, a 
scant capful of milk, a teaspoonful of vanilla ex- 
tract. The milk was boiled. To it were added the 
eggs aud sugar, beaten together, and the gelatine. 
The mixtuie was strained, and the vanilla aud wine 
were added. When the custard began to thicken, 
there was added half a pint of cream whipped to a 
stift froth. The custard was poured into the vacant 
space mentioned and was allowed to stand until 
hard. The pudding was then ttirned out of the 
mould and served with soft custard poured around 
it. For this custard there were used the yolks of 
eight eggs and whites of two, a quart of milk, a scant 
half teaapoonf ul of sugar, half a teaspoonful of salt, 
and a teaspoonful of lemon extract. The eggs and 
sugar having been beaten together, a cupful of the 
milk was addtd. The remainder was heated to the 
boiling point and poured upon tbe beateu mixture, 
which was at once put upon the stove in a double 
boiler. The custard was stirred until it began to 
thicken — say about five minutes— and the salt was 
added. Tlie custard was set away to cool, and when 
it was cold the flavor was added. The audience was 
cautioned agaiost lifting carelessly the smaller of 
tbe two moulds used in making the pudding. Miss 
Parloasaidit would be better to melt the jelly a 
trifle more in order to raise the mould easily than it 
would be to raise the mould quickly, and possibly 
jar the jelly so much as to mar the appearance of the 
dish. She said, also, that the space from which tbe 
smaller mould was taken must be tilled slowly with 
tbe preparation designed for it. 

Between the stages of work on the royal diplo- 
matic pudding Miss Parloa made two other dishes. 
For hiscait glad, half a cupful of water and two- 
thirds of a cupful of sugar were first boiled together 
for half an hour. Three eggs were beaten well aud 
Btiried into tbe boiling syrup, and the saucepou con- 
taining this mixture was placed in another of boil- 
ing water, lor eight minutes the mixture was 
vigorously beaten ; then the saucepan was trans- 
ferred from the pan of hot water to one of cold 
water, and the mixture was beaten until cold. A 
teaspoonful of v.auilla extract and a pint of cream 
whipped to a froth, were added and the mixture 
was again stirred well. It was put into little paper 
cases, shaped like cake pans and three or four inches 
long. These were made by Miss Parloa, who said 
they could be bought at tbe best restaurateurs if 
one did not choose to make them at home. A dozen 
and a half macaroons were browned in the oven, 
and after they had been cooled and had become 
hard on account of these processes, tliey were rolled 
tine. A layer of the crumbs was put on the cream 
in each case. All the cases were carefully placed in 
an ice-cream freezer and buried in ice and salt ; be- 
ing allowed to remain buried a long time. 

For coflee jelly, a box of gelatine was soaked 
nearly two hourb in half a pint of cold water. A 
pint and a half of boiling water was poured upon 
it, and when it had been wholly dissolved, a pint of 



sugar and a pint of strong (cooked) coUee wera 
added. The jelly was strained, poured into a bor- 
der mould, and set away to harden. In due time, 
when it was turned out, sweetene-l and whipped 
cream was heaped within the circle of jelly. 

In making the next dish, ham toast. Miss Parloa's 
first step was to cut cold boiled lean ham into thin 
slices and then into dice, and she said incidentally 
that if people would always cut meat or vegetable? 
into slices, then put the slices together aud cut 
them into strips, and finally cut across 
the strips at proper intervals, they would 
avoid giving tbe meat or vegetables that mashed 
appearance which is so common when they are en t up 
in the choppmg-tray. The work can be done rapidly 
and all of the pieces are of about equal size. Resum- 
ing her work she seasoned a cupful of the ham with 
salt, ptpper, a "speck" of cayenne and a quarter of 
a teaspoonful of dry mustard. She put a table- 
s oonful of butter into a small frying-pan, and 
whin it was hot she added a teaspoonful of floor. 
After stirring until the mixture was smooth and 
frothy she added two-thirds of a cuptul of 
stock ; stirring aU the while until it boiled 
up. This she Eeasoned with pepper, 

aud salt. The ham was added, and cooked tiva 
minutes, with an occasional Stirling. As soon as 
It was hot It wasspread upon slicesof toasted bread, 
and served. 

The last dish prepared was ham and eggs on 
toast. Trimmings from cold boiled ham wore cut 
fine and spread upon buttereil slices of toast. Theso 
were put into the oven for about three minutes. In 
the meantime six eggs and half a cupful of milk 
were beaten together, and .a teaspoonful of salt and 
a little pepper were aided. Two tablo-tpoon fills 
of butter were put into the saucepan with the mix- 
ture, and when this bad been heated so much that 
it thickened it was taken off, beaten for a moment 
and spread over the ham and toast. 



VIII. 

SWEETBREADS, PUDDINGS, FOOD FOR THE 
SICK. 

" We will first make a Danish pudding," said 
Miss Parloa, addressing her audience. " This cupful 
of tapioca was washed yesterday and has been 
soaking through the night in three piuts of water, 
measured liberally. I will put it in iho double- 
boiler and cook it for an hour, stirring it olte:i. I 
shall then add half a toacupful of sugar, halt a 
teaspoonful of salt and this tumbler of bnght 
jelly, mixing all together thoroughly. The pudding 
will be put into a mould that has been dipped m 
cold water, and be set away to harden ; and by aud 
by you shall eat it with sugar aud cream." 

While the Danish puddiugwas cooking a Swiss 
pudding was begun. The rind of a lemon was grated 
into a nint of milk, which w.as put upon the stove 
in a double boiler. A te^icupful of flour aud four 
tablespoonfuls of butter having been rubbed to. 
gether, the milk was poured upon them as soon 3,3 



16 



Iril/une Extra No. 85. 



it boiled. All the incrodienta vforo put into tlio 
Ucpilor to lio cookod (ive luiiiutes.vrith ii stirring •lur- 
ing i lie first two. The volks of live eggs and tliiee 
tablospoonfulsof su'-'ar were bcat.n togetber and 
Biirred into the boiling mixture, which was ininio- 
diiktely thonaftcr rcniovid from the lire an<l set 
away to cool. When it had become cold tho whitis 
of tho eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, were added. I'lio 
pudding was turned into a three-quart mould that 
had been carefully bultered, and steamed for fnrly 
mmntcs, when it was turned out uiwu a hot dish 
and served at once. 

Creamy sauce accompanied thi'' pu "ding. Half a 
cuptui of butter was beaten to a cream, ami, while 
tho beating was continued, half a cuplul of pi>\v- 
dered sugar was gradually added. When the mix- 
ture was light and creamy four tab'.espoonfiils of 
wine were addeo, and then one-fourth of a cupful 
of cream, a little at a time. When th-j sauce had 
been beaten smooth the bowl containing it was set 
into abiisinof hot water, and the stirring was rt- 
euiued until the sauee was perfectly smooth aiid 
creamy— no longer. This condition was secuicd in 
a few moments. 

Early in the course of the lesson Miss Parloa had 
put a cnplul of rice on to boil in three cupfuls of 
■water, and she now said that as it had boiled half 
an hour she would, as a second step in tiie making 
of a rice border, add a heaping toaspoonful of salt 
and two tabUspoonfuls of butter, and set tho rice 
back where it wonld simmer for an hour. She next 
spoke of sweetbreads, which are found in calves and 
lambs, near the throat or the heart. All the tough 
skin should be carefully pulled oU', she said, and the 
sweetbreads should be allowed to lie in cold water 
for ten minutes. They should afterward be boiled 
lor twenty minutes, no matter what the subscqueni 
mode of cooking it to be. 

Miss P.arloa first showed how to lard and bake 
them. Through each she drew four pieces of pork 
about the size of a match. She let the sweetbreiids 
lie in cold water for Uve or more minutes and boiled 
them twenty minutes, after which she spread them 
■with butter, dredged them with pepper, salt and 
Hour, ana baked them twenty minutes in a quick 
oven. The way to broil was next shown. Sweet- 
bre.ids were split, and were seasoned with pepper 
and salt, rubbed with butter and sprinkleil with 
Hour. They were broiled over a quick tire for ton 
minutes, being constantly turned. For a ««i((^, a 
single sweetbread was split and cut into four pieces, 
■which were seasoned with salt and pepper. A small 
tablespoonlul of butter and a like quantity of flour 
havini: been heated in a frying-pan, the sweetbread 
■was put in, and was turned constantly until lightly 
browned. About eight minutes were required to 
cook it. 

Cream caace wa,*! served with the sweetbreads in 
each instance. A pint of cream, less half a cupful, 
w.TS heated to the boiling point, and into it was 
stirred a generous tablespoouful of flour mixed 
uuooth with the half-cupful of cream that was re- 



served from the pint. Pepper and salt wore added, 
and the same was boili d for three minules. 

Miss Parhia again gave her attention to the rico 
bonier. The rice was mashed very tine with a spoon 
and, after two well-beaten eggs had been added, 
was stinoil for three minutes. A plain border mould 
having been heated, the rice was turned into it and 
heated for ten minutes. It was then put where 
It would keep warm, and chocolate pies were 
made. Half a cupful of butter was bfaten until 
light, and to it was gr.iduatly added a cupful 
of sugar. The butter was beaten all the while, and 
a cream was soon formed. Three eggs were beaten 
till light, and were added, together with a cupful of 
milk, to tho creamy mixture. All the materials then 
received a thorouijh mixing. Three enpluls of llour, 
with which a teaspuouful of soda and two of cream 
of taitar had been mixed, were stirred into the tirst 
mixture, which was then flavoroa ■»vith lemon. 
Wa-shiiigton-pie plates were filled, and the cakes 
were baked about twenty minutes. When done 
they w^ere split, and upon one-balf was spread a fill- 
iug made from this recipe: Mix togeihi-r a square 
of Baker's chocolate, scraped, and a cupful of sugar, 
and add, very slowly, one-third of a cupful of boiling 
milk and the yolks of two eggs; simmer fur ten min- 
utes, taking care that the mixture does not burn; 
Uavor witii vanilla and have it perfectly cold before 
using, '{he two parts of tho pie were put together, 
and powdered sugar was spriukled upou tbe uoper 
part. 

The last dish made was a blanquette of veal. A 
quart of cooked veal, cut into small pieces, was 
used ; also, a cupful of cream, a large cupful of 
white slock, tho j'olks of four egg?, three table- 
spocmfuls of butter, a heaping tablesponnful ot 
llour, a teaspoouful of lemon-juice, and small quan- 
tities of Bhlt and pepper. The butter was put into 
a sauce-pan, and when it was hot tho flour was 
added, Tho mixture was stirred until smooth but 
not brown. The stock was added ; followed two 
minutes later by the cream and sea-souing. As soon 
as the mixture had boiled up, the veal was put in, 
to be cooked ten minutes, at the eud of which time 
tho yolks of the eggs, beaten together with four 
tablespoonfuls of milk, were stirred into the blan- 
quette, and the dish w as cooked a moment longer. 
It was served m the rice-border previously pre- 
pared. 

"Food for tho sick" was the topic of the 
afternoon talk, and Scotch broth was the first dish 
made. Miss i'arloa said this was excellent for con- 
valescents, being appetizing and nutritious. 
Among the ingredients was a two-pound piece 
of the scraegy part of a neck of mutton. This 
p.articular cut was employed because the muscles of 
a sheep's neck aro in such constant use as to 
make that part of tbe animal better-flavored 
and more nutritious than those parta 
through which the blood has run less freely. 
Miss I'arloa cut the meat from the bones and re- 
moved all the fat. She cut the meat into small 
pieces and put it into a 60up kettle, together vtitli 



Practical Cookerr/. 



17 



two slices of carrot, a slice of turnip, a stalk of 
celery and an onion — all cut fine, half a cupful of 
barley and tbree pints of water : and the brotb was 
allowed to simmer gently for two hours. The 
bones, with a pint of water added, also were 
allowed the same amount of time for simmenng. 
and the liquor was strained into the soup kettle. 
A tabl'spoonful each of butter and flour were 
cooked I OKether until perfect ly smooth, and then 
stirred into the broth ; aftT which salt and pepper 
and ateaspoonful of chopped parsley were added. 

The audience was cautioned against rapid eook'ng 
as a high temperature hardens the tibres of the 
meat, whereas a slow babbling renders the meat 
tendrr and secures a better flavor for the broth. 
The vegetableo should be cut very fine. Mutton is 
so nutritious and so easily digested as to deserve 
much attention as a food during convalescence. If 
it be properly cooked the peculiar flavor that is disa- 
greeable to some people is concealed, though the 
meat remains palatable. 

Mutton broth, which was recommended for 
patients whose food must he light, was next made. 
A pound of meat like that ii.sed for the Scotch broth 
was freed of fat and cnt into small pieces and w,'\s 
put itjto a saucepan containing a quart of cold 
water. When this water had become heated to the 
boiling point it was carefully skimmed. A table- 
Bpoon fill of barley was added, and i he broth was 
simmered slowly for two hours. 

In anticipation of making lemon jelly. Miss 
Parloa had soaked one-fourth of a cupful of gela- 
tine in one-fourth of a cupful of cold water for two 
hours. She now poured upon the gelitine a 
cupful of boiling water and added half a cupful of 
Rusar and one-fourlh of a cupful of leuiouiu ce. and 
afler straining the jelly through a napkin into a 
monld, she set it away to harden. 

For an oyster stow, the liquor was drained from 
half a pint of oysters and allowed to heat to the 
boiling point, when it was skimmed. In the mean- 
time, half a pint of milk was heated to the boiling 
point in the double-boiler. Into it were stirred a 
teaspconful of butter, the proper quantity of salt to 
pive the stew a good flavor, and the oys'ers. The 
iish was boiled up once, and served immediately. 

Miss Parloji cautioned her hearers against over- 
cooking oysters at any time. She then selected a 
number of large ones, drained them, seasoned them 
with salt and pepper, dipped them in melted butter 
and dredged them with flour. She broiled them 
over a qiiicii fire until the edges curled, and served 
them on buttered toast. 

After some English snipe had been cleaned the 
wings were cut off, as well as the legs at the first 
joint. The birds were cut open in the back, sea- 
soned with salt and pepper, dipped in melted butler 
and dredged with flour. They were broiled eight 
or ten minutes, and served on buttered toast. 

Cream toast was next made. Half a cupful of 
cream wa,s heated to the boiling point and .seasoned 
with salt. In the meantime two slices of bread 
were nicely browned. They were dipped in the 



cream and placed on a dish, and the remaining 
cream was poui-ed over them. 

For cracker gruel, a scant half pint of boiling 
water was poured upon four tablespoon fuls of pow- 
dered cracker, and, after half a pint of miik and 
half a teaspoouful of salt had been added, the mix- 
ture was stirred until it had boiled up once. 

Last of all, eggnog was made. The whit" of an 
egg was beaten to a stiff froth ; next a tablespoon- 
ful of sugar was beaten in ; then the yolk of the 
egg, acd finally a tablospoonful each of milk, water 
and wine. 

Before closing. Miss Parloa said that when using 
milk in di~hes for the sick the diseases of the per- 
sons who are to consume the food should be con- 
sidered. Long boiling hardens the albumen 
and makes the milk constipating, hence, 
if tuB patient be already constipated, 
great care should he exercised not to allow 
the milk or cream to heat above the boiling point. 
Miss Parloa said also that one could not use season- 
ings for a sick person that would suit a well person. 
More salt .and acid can and should be used in most 
cases when .seasoning food for the sick, while less 
sugar or other sweet flavor should oe used. Advice 
was aKso given not to send a too bountiful supply 
of food to the patient, and not to set any one dish 
before him fiequeutly just because it has tasted 
especially good at first. Miss Parloa emphasized the 
desirability of serving all dishes in the daintiest and 
most attractive ways, so as to induce au appetite 
which may be dormant. 



IX. 

BREAKFAST DISHES, BAVARIAN CREAM. 

AVINE JELLY, ETC. 

" These are my last public lessons in New- York 
this season," saidMiss Parloa. "I shall devote my time 
for the present to my courses of lectures out of 
town, but shall resume the giving of demonstration 
lessons and private instructions here in the fall." 
She announced that the morning's topic was 
" Breakfast Dishe.s." and that salt fish souffle would 
be prepared first. Eight good-sized potatoes had 
previously been pared and then boiled for half au 
hour. The water was carefully poured off, and the 
potatoes were mashed fine aud mixea with a pint of 
fine-chopped cooked salt fish. Three-fourths of a 
cyoful of hot milk, two generous tablespooufuls 
of butter, and small quantities of s.alt and pepper 
were added. Two eggs were beaten and stirred in, 
and the mixture was heaped upon thedishon whieh 
it was to be served, and placed in the oven for ten 
minutes. The whites of two more eggs wero 
beaten to a stiff froth. A quarter of a teaspoouful 
of salt was added and then the yolks. This prepar- 
ation was spread upon the dish of fish, which was 
browned in the oven, and served at once. 

A cupful of hominy was w.ashed in two waters 
and stirred into a quart of boiling water. A tea- 
spoontul of salt was added, and the dish was boiled 



13 



Tribune Extra Ko. 85. 



for noaily iiii Inmr. Miss P;irlo:i mixed togi'tlior a 
pint of tlio warm hoiniuv. a pint of milk anil n pint 
of lliiur. anil after boaliiiB two ORirs, she siirnd 
llji-m info tlio battor, aiUling a little sail at tlio 
time. Of this hatter excellent uriildlc cakes wore 
made; the Kriddle being very hot to prevcut tbe 
cakes from beiug touyb. 

For hominy muflinH. a teacupfill of boilinR water 
Mas poured upon two la'despoonf ills of lineunionked 
liominy. Alter tiftoen iniiiules' sinimerinii this 
inixinre was added to onecoiisisting of a eiipfnl anil 
.a hiiHOf boiling milk and a cnpful of Indian meal. 
'J'he combined mixtures were allowed to cool, and 
when they were cool there were added to them two 
well-bo.iten eggs, two tahlespoontuis of suiar and a 
teaspoonful each of salt and bakiiiBpowdor. 
The batter was ponred into small pans that had 
been heated and bnttcred. Fifteen miuutis' baking 
gave dolicions mntTins. 

The first step in the making of com mufBns was 
to mix together in a sieve, and finally rub through 
it, a teacupfill of cornmeal, twice as much flour, a 
third of a eunful of sugar, a teaspoonful of salt, and 
three teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Having put 
two tablespoonfuls of butter into a cup, Sliss I'arloa 
set the cup into a basin of hot wafer; and while 
the butler was melting, she beat three eggs very 
light and added to them a large cupful of milk. This 
mixture she tioured upon the dry ingredients, beat- 
ing well all the while. The melted butJer was 
added, and the mixture was ponred into buttered 
mufUn pans and baked twenty minutes. Miss Par- 
loa used wliite meal for the?o muflins, but said that 
yellow would have given about as goo'l a result. 

Seyeral fine slices of halibut, about an inch, 
thick, having been seasoned with salt .and pepper 
and allowed to lie in melted butter — covering both 
sides— for half an hour, were rolled in flour, and 
broiled for twelve minutes over a clear fire. The 
lialiliut was served on a hot dish with a handsome 
garnish of parsley and shoes of lemon. Miss Par- 
loa said that about three tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter should bo allowed for e.aeh pound of tho un- 
CnoUed fish. 

Halibut w.as .also served with maltre d'hrtte) but- 
ter, which was made by beating four tablespoon- 
fuls of butter to a cream and gradually beating into 
it a tablespoonfiil each of lemon juice and vinegar 
a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, 
liolh sides of a broiler having been buttered, the 
slices of halibut, seasoned with salt and pepper, 
were coo'sed oyer clear coals for twelve miiiiite.s, 
receiving a turning frequently. The fish was placed 
upon a hot dish, and over it was spread the maltie 
d'h&tel butter; a spoonful being used for each 
pound of tish. 

Liver was cooked in n variety of ways. First, 
slices werodipre 1 in butler and lightly in flour, and 
broiled eight or ten minntes over a bright tiro. 

A pound of liver was cut into small thin pieces, 
nod after four tablespoonfuls of butter had been 
Leuled, tho meat was cooked in it slowly for four 



minutos. Two tablespoon fu's of lioiir. a teaspoon- 
ful of curry powder, two slices of onion, a " speck " 
of cayenne and «mall quantities of Bait and p.-pper 
were added, and after two minntes' cooking a cup- 
ful of slock was slowly iinded. The dish, after it 
had once boiled up, was announced to be a curry of 
liver. 

For liver santd, liver was cnt into very tbin slices, 
and seasoned with salt and pepper. Two table- 
spoonfuls of butler and a largo tablcspoonfal of 
flour were heated together in a small frying-pan. 
and tho liver was laid in and browned on both 
sides. Two tablespoonfuls of water, one of wine, 
and a tablespoonfiil of chopped pirsley were added, 
and after Miss Parloa had tasted of the dish, to as- 
certain if it were salt enough, she boiled it up once, 
and served it. 

A pint of potato balls were cnt ont of raw po- 
tatoes with a vegetable scoop, and boiled gently 
for twelve minntea. The water w.as drained from 
them, and a cupful of boiling mi'k substituted. A 
tea pionful of butter, a like quantity of eliopped 
parsley and a scant teaspoonful of salt wer« added, 
and the dish was allowed to simmer eight min- 
utes. 

'■ We will begin with wine jelly," s.aid Miss Par- 
loa at her next lecture. A bnx of gelatine had 
beeti soak-d two hours in half a pint of cold water. 
Upon it was poured a pint and a half of b dling 
water, and a stirring followed until the gelatine 
was dissolved. A pint of sugar, a pint of sherry and 
f he juico of a lemon were added, and part of thi 
jelly was strained through a napkin into a border 
mould. When it had become slightly h >rdened—r» 
bed of ice being used to promote the hardening — a 
row of fresh strawoerries was laid upon it. A little 
more jelly was poured in, to hold tb" fruit in place ; 
and when it had becorre somewhat solid the re- 
mainder of the jelly was added, and tho mould put 
into the ice chest. 

The making of a bitd's-nest pudding vtpxt ahsorl>cd 
the attention ot the audience. The je'lv for it had 
been preoared at the same time as the wine jelly, the 
processes being similar. Half. a package of spark- 
ling gelatine bad been soaked for two hours in ha'f 
a cupful of cold water, .ind upon it had been poured 
enough boiling water to make, with the juice of si.x 
oranges, two cunluls and a half of liqnor. After 
this water and orange juio and a smill cupful of 
sugar had been added, the jelly had been 
stirred well, and strained into a shallow dish. 
This was where it was found when 
Miss Parloa announced that a birdVnest pud- 
ding was in order. A plate of " straws " was pro- 
duced, and it w.as explained that they were ob- 
tained in this way : Peel was removed fr.-.iu halt a 
dozen oraiigi>s in quarters, and allowed to lie oyer 
niglitiutwo quarts of water. The next mort'ing 
the peel was cut into thin strips with seis^oi-s. and 
boiled in fresh water until tender. The strips were 
drained in a sieve, and simm-rcd half an hour in a 
syrup made of halt a cupful of sugar and a pint of 
water. They were then put into a bowl, and re- 



Practical CooTcery. 



10 



inained tliere over liisilit. On the day of tlio lecture 
a pint of Bn^arandof water were boiled together 
for twenty minutes, and the syrup fell in threads 
from a spoon (fitli which a quaiifity was di.-iped ut>. 

Tlie oracge peel straws were boiled li.nlt an liour 
in this syrup, and then removed and <lr:nned in a 
sieve. As they became dry they were put into a 
dish and placed in a warm oven. 

Tlius a larse pai t ot the work was done before the 
lecture, but each finished step was explnuieil with 
much care. Miss Parhia put into a donblc-Poiler a 
pint of milk and a (hird of a box of gelatine that 
linu been soaking for two hours, and heated the 
mixture wit liuut allowing it to boil. She gjveita 
stirring frequently As soon as the gelatine had 
been dissolved the mixture was removed from the 
fire, and to it were added one and » half table- 
Kjioonfuls of sugar, a third of a teaspoouful of 
orange flavor, and a tiuy quantity of salt. This 
lilanc-mangs was nonred into six egg shells that 
had bee u emptied by breaking in one end a hole 
about the size ol a cent, and stirring a sKener in- 
side. The shells were placed upright in a pan of 
fine-powdered ice. Tiie jolly that had been pre- 
pared nas broken into pieces with a fork and put 
into a flat dish. The straws were arranged m the 
form of nests on tlie jelly, the sheila were taken 
from the blauc-mange, and the eggs of blanc-mange 
wore rdaced in the nests. 

Jliss P.arloa said at this point that when gelatine 
is to tie used it should bo soaked in cold water, 
standing in a cold place, for two hours, for it w ill 
then dissolve readily without lieing brought to a 
high temperature, which is likely to give a strong 
flavor. The vessel in which the gelatine is dis- 
.«olvcd should not be put directly upon the range, 
but into another containing hot wjter, and this 
may be put upon the ra'-.ge. 

For strawberry Bavarian cream there were used 
a pint of cream, a quart of strawberries, half a cup- 
ful of cold water, half a cupful of biilnig water, a 
large cupful of sugar aud halt a package of gela- 
tine. The gelatine had soaked two hours in the 
cola water, and the berries and sugar had been 
mashed together and allowed to stand tor .au hour. 
The cream was now whipped to a f rot li. The juice 
from the berries was strained as n.uch as possible, 
being pressed through; but care was taken that 
none of the seeds went with it. The hot water was 
pouied upon the gelatine, which, when it was dis- 
solved, was straiiiei into the strawberry juice. 
Tlie basiu (which was tin) was set iuto a pan ot ice 
water, and the mixture was beaten until a cieam 
liad toruied. AVheu it was ot about the consistence 
ot soft custard, the whioped cream was stirred into 
it; and after a good stirring the mixtare was 
turned iuto moulds aud set awaj to harden. 

Uorr-staich cake was made by beating a cupful 
of butter to a cream aud adding a cupful and a half 
ot dour, four eggs well beaten, half a cjpful of corn- 
staich dissolvea in half a cupful cf milk, and a cup 
and a h.alt of flour into which had been stirred a 
teaspoouful of cream- of-tartar and half a teaspoon- 



fnl ot soda ; the mixture being flavored with lemon 
and baked in two sheets. 

After making this cake Miss T.arloa turned the 
mouldoi wine jelly into a ghiss dish, and turned 
the Uavariau cream into the circle of jelly, heaping 
whipped cream about it. 

This ended the last public lesson. Miss Parloa 
was congratulated on having excited a considei-.able 
am.mnt of interest in cookery during the brief 
season her school bad been op.-n. ,«»me of the lad- 
ies present had attended nearly everv lesson, and 
expressed not only tbe feeling that they had been 
more than repaid for devoting so much time and 
thought to the culinary art, but the intention of 
beiug regular auditors when the school should be 
oi)eued in the fall. 



ROUSEHOLD XOTES. 



Pot AC FErr.-Take a good-sized beef-bone with 
plenty of meat on it, exir.act the marrow aud place 
m a pot on the back of the range, covering the beef 
with three or more quarts of cold water; cove- 
tiahtly and allow to simmerall day long. The next 
day, before heating, remove the grease from the top 
and add a large onion which has been stuck full of 
cloves and roasted in the oven till of a rich lirowa 
col<,r; then add any other vegetables which one 
may fancy. Rice or vermicelli may be added for a 
change. Just before .serving, burn a little brown 
sugar and stir through it. This gives a peculiar 
flavor and rich color to the soup. 

Buns.— Two quarts of warm water, two pounds of 
sugar, one and a half pounds of butter, two ounces 
of allspice, six eggs beaten by themselves, one pint 
of yeast. Put the flour, yeast aud water together 
about as thick as pudding, set it by the fire, let it; 
ri.se to a sponge, and mix the sugar and butter to- 
gether. Then beat the whole together after rising 
and knead iu flour enough but uot very stiff; make 
the buus small and brush them over with egg just 
as you put them into the oven. 

Ci'P Cake.— Five cups of fl.uir, three of sugar, one 
of butter, one of cream, tivo eggs, one teaspoonful 
of soda ; season to taste. 

Rice Waffles.— One quart of flour; half a lea- 
.spoonful of salt; one teaspoonful of suga-: tivo 
teospoonfuls of baking-powder; one large table- 
spoonful of butter; two eggs; one and a half pints 
of milk; one cupful of hot boiled rice. Sift the 
flour, salt, sugar aud baking-powder well together- 
rub the butter into the flour, beat the eggs well, 
separately, and add the stilt whites last of all. 

Whitebait.— Dram them on a clean napkin until 
the water is thoroughly absorbed. Roll them iu 
flour and drop them info a deep pan of hot larri ; let 
them remain iu it until crisp, then withaslice remove 
them from the fat, and put them on a sieve to drain. 
Dry them tor a few miuutes before the Are, sprinkle 
a little salt over them and serve them on a napkin. 
Slices of very thin brown bread and butter, aud 



20 



Tribvne Extra l\o. 85. 



li-moii8 cu in quarters, aud Ca\cuue pepper are 
Ijuudvd aruiiud with them. 

J'iNKAiM'i.R l'ii>i>iNG.— Hutter a pnd.ling (lisli, 
and lino the boltoiu and cideswilh nIicis of Blalc 
lake (sDOUBe cuke is best), pare and slice thin a larjje 
pineapple; plaee in the disli first a l:i.v<-r of pineap- 
ple, then f-trew with sngar, then more pineapple, and 
EO on nnlil all is used. Pour overa^mall leaiupfiil 
of water, and cover with slices of cake wlueli have 
been dipped in cold water; cover the whole with a 
buttered plate, and balie slewly for two hours. 

Kiiisics.— Whites of six fan*; one pound of pul- 
verized sugar , one drop of rose oil. Put the suK.ar 
lu the dish first, and drop the whites of ecBS (un- 
beaten upon It. Jieat thorn together thor.)U({hly for 
two hours. Drop on tins with a teaspoon, turinnu 
fcioon round ami round until the cakes axe very 
lii^h and end in a point : this will liive them a fluted 
appearance. When baked and still hot, stick two 
of them tofiether, using a little while of egg if 
necessary. Lay them very eaivfnlly upon an lu- 
■verted sieve to cool. They may also ho squeezed 
through a nieringuo bag like lady-liugers, or they 
may be dropped in smooth round cakes. 

Lkmo.V J'uddino.— Grate the peel of ttvo lemons 
and add the juice of one; mix with two crackers. 
Add three-fiuarteis of a pound of sugar, yolks of 
twelve eg^s, whites of six, three-quartersot a pound 
of melted butter, half a pint of tliicU cream. Mix 
well together, line the dish with a very thick paste, 
pour the mgiedunts iu aud bake one hour. 

Eve's Pudding.— (Jrate three-quarters of a pound 
of bread, three-quarters of a pound of suet, three- 
quarters of a pound of apnies ; tbiee-quarlers of a 
pound of currants, lour eggs and the peel of a lemon 
Kiated. Put into share aud boil three hours, toerve 
with rich sauce. 

Elkction Cake.— Five pounds flour, one and 
three-quarter pounds butter, two iiounds sugar. 
two pounds stoned raisins, one nutmeg, half pint 
brandy, one gill sherry or Madeira wine, one pint 
yeast, one quart new milk. Jiuh part of the butter 
into the flour, as it would not rise so well with the 
■whole, or meli it in the milk, as it rises better to bo 
wanu. Add the milk and yeait at tiighf. If well 
nscn in the inorninp, add fho other iugredie:;ts: if 
not, let It staud till well risen. Flour, butter, milk 
aud yeast to bo put together at night. 

Bhaised Tongue.— Wash a fresh beef tongue, 
and, -with a trussing needle, ruu a strong twine 
through the roots and end of it, drawing tightly 
enough to have the end meet the roots; then tie 
firmly. Cover with boiling water, and boil gently 
for two hours; then take up and drain. Put six 
tablcspeonfuls of butter in the braising pan. and 
■when hot put in half a small carrot, half a small 
turnip, and two onions, all cut lino. Cook live min- 
utes stirring all the time, and then draw to one side. 
Koll the tonguo in flour, and put in the pan. As 
soon as browned on one side, turn, and brown the 
other. Add one quart of the water in which it was 
boiled, a bouquet of sweet herbs, one clove, a sm;ill 



piece of cinnamon, and salt and pepper. Covei, and 
cook two hours i.i a slow oven, basting olten with 
the gravy in the pan. and salt, pepner. and Hour. 
When It has been cooking an hojr aud a half, add 
the juice of half a lemon to the gravy. When doue, 
take up. Welt two tablespoonfuls of glaze, and 
pour over the tongue. Place iu the healer uniil the 
gravy is made. Mix one tablespo.mful of coru- 
staieh with a little cold water, and stir into the 
boiling giavy, of which there should be one pint. 
Boil one minute ; then strain, aud pour around the 
lonctie. (janiish with parsley, and sirve. 

^■NOW PtDDlxo.— Dissolve half a box of gelatine 
overnight in one and a half pints of warm water, 
riie next uiorniiig add the whites of four egus, two 
scant teacupfiils of powdered sugar and ouc tea- 
spoonful of extract of vanilla. Beat l he mixture 
lor an hour, then turn it into a m»uld and set it 
upon ice. tservc with Koldoo sauce. 

GiLDEN .Sauce.— Make a smooth boiled custard 
wiih the yoiks of tUjee eggs, half a cupful of sugar 
aud a pint of milk. Flavor it to taste. 

CiiEAM A LA Vkrsailli;s.— One quart of railk.h:il£ 
acuplulsugar, half a teasooouful of vauiUa extract, 
hall a teaspoon I III ot salt, seven eggs.two tablespoon- 
fuls of water. Put the sugar in a small tryiug-pau and 
stir uuiil a very light brown. Add the water, stira 
moment longer, and mix with the milk. Beat lue 
cgas aud salt with a spoon. Add this mixture and 
llie vanilla to the milk. Butter a two-quart char- 
lotte russe mould lightly, aud put the custard in it. 
Put the uKiuld into a basin ot warm (not hut) waiei 
and bake slowly until the custard is tiriu iu the 
centre, ft should take forty minutes; but if the 
oven is quite hot it will be done iu thirty minutes. 
Test uy putting a knife dowu into the 
centre, for if the custard is not uiilky, it is done. 
Set away in a cold place until serving lime. It must 
be ice-cold when eaten. Turn out on a Hat dish and 
pour caramel seed over it. 

LoAK Cake. — Two quarts of sugar, seven cupfuls 
of butter, six quarts of silted flour, six pouuds of 
fruil, one pint of wine, one pint of yeast, eight untf 
megs, mace, twelve eggs, one quart of UMlk. It 
should be made at such an hour (being governed by 
the weather) as will give it time to get peructly 
light by evening. It should staud about six hourj 
in sumnirr aiid eight in winter, put iu half the 
bultorand eggs, and the milk, flavor and yeast, aud 
beat thoroughly. In the evening add the remainder 
of the batter, rubbing it w^ith the sugar, the rest of 
the cgg«, and the si>ice. Let the cake rise again 
until morning ; then add the fruit. I'ut iu deep 
pans, and let rise about half an hour. Bake from 
two to three hours in a slow oven. 

C'ooKli~s.— Take one heaping cup of sngar, twelve 
tabl.'spoonl'uls of melted butter, six tablespoonfuls 
of hot water and one teaspoonful of soda. Mix 
quickly, with flour enough to roll; roll thin, and 
bake in quick oven on well-greased tins; keep in a 
stone jar. 

Ckkam Ca>;dv.— One coSrc-capful of white susar. 



Pracfkal CooJcenj. 



21 



four tablespooiifuls of hot wafer to dissolve it; boil, 
without stirrii.g, iu a bright tin pan until it will 
crisp in water, like molasses candy. Just before it 
is done put in one-Quarter teaspoonful of pure cream 
of tartar and a tcaspooulul of epseuce of lerann, 
vanilla, or peppermint. When done, pour into a 
battered pan. and when cool enough to handle, work 
like molasses candy until perfectly while ; pull in 
strips of the thickness of yimr finger and cut in 
thort pieces with the shears. Lay on buttered 
paper on plates. 

Potato Croquettes.— Season cold mashed po- 
tato with pepper, ealt r.nd nutm'p. Beat to a 
cream, with a tablcscooulu! of melted butter to 
every cupful of potato. Bind with two or three 
beaten es-gs, and add some minced parsley. Rull 
nto oval balli^, dip in beaten egg, then in bread 
crumbs, and fry in hot lard or dripoings. Pile in a 
oyiamid upon a flat dish, and serve. They are nice 
ivith a little cream beaten up with them. 

Pressed Veai,.— Boil a beef tongue the day be- 
fore it is used, and alike quantity of lean veal. 
Chop very fine. Seasou the tougire with pepper, 
powdered sweet herhs, a teaspi onful of mustard, a 
little nutmec and cloves, a pinch of each; season 
the veal in like manner, vvilh the addition of salt. 
Pack in altoiuale spoonfuls as irregularly as possi- 
ble, in cups, bowls or jars which have been well 
buttered. Press very hard as you goon, smooth 
the top, and cover with niclted bulter. When this 
coo^s close the cans, and keep in a cool, dry place, 
lurn out whole, or cut iu slices for tea. It is a 
pietty and savory relish, garnished with parsley or 
the blanched tops of celery. 

Breadf.d Eggs.— Boil the eggs hard, and cut in 
round, thick slices; pepprr and salt; dip each m 
beaten raw egg, then in fine bread crumbs or pow- 
dered cracker, and fry in nice dripping or butter, 
hissing hot. Drain oil every drop of grease, and 
serve on a hot dish lor breakfast, with sauce, like 
that for fricasseed eggs, ponied over them. 

Nkapolitan Pudding— One large cno of fine 
bn-ad crumbs soaked in milk; three-quarters of a 
cup of sugar; one lemon, juice and grated rind; six 
eggs; half a pound of stale sponge cake; hall a 
pound of almond macaroous: halt a cup of jelly or 
iam, and one small tumbler of sherry wine; one 
half cup of milk poured upon the breadcrumbs; 
one teaspoonful of melted butter. Rub the butter, 
and sugar together ; put tho beaten yolks in next ; 
then the soaked bread crumbs, the lemon juice and 
rind, and beat to a smooth, light paste before add- 
ing the whites. Bulter your mould very well, and 
put in the bottom a light laverof dry \iread crumbs ; 
upon this a layer of macaroons, laid evenly and 
closely together. Wet this with wine and cover 
with a layer of the mixture: then with blices of 
sponge cake, spread thickly with jelly or jam : next 
macaroons, wet with wiue, more custard, sponge 
c;ike and jam, and so on unlil the mould is full, put- 
ting a layer of the mixture at the- top. Cover 
closely, and steam iu the oven three-quarters of an 



hour; then remove Ihe cover to brown the top. 
Turn out carefully into a dish, and pour over it a 
sauce made of currant jelly wanned and beaten up 
with two tablespoonfuls of melted butter and a 
glass of pale sherry. 

Fri iters.— One pint of flour, four eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one pint of boiling water. Stir Ihe 
flour into the water bv degrees, and stir until it has 
boiled three minutes. Let it get almost cold, when 
beat in the yolks, then the whitesof the eggs, which 
must be previously whipped stiff. 

Presf.rved PiNEAPrLE.- Pare, cut info slices, 
take cut the core of each one, and weigh, allowing 
pound for pound of sugar and fruit. Put iu alter- 
nate layers lu tie kettle and pour in water, allow- 
ing a teacupful to each pound of sugar. Heat to a 
boll; take out tho pineapple and spread upon 
dishes in the sun. Boil and skim the syrup half an 
hour. Return tho pineapple to the kettle and boil 
fifteen minutes. Take it out, pack in wide-mouthed 
jars, pour on the scalding syrup, cover to keep in 
the heat, and, when cold tie up, first putting bran- 
died tissue-paper upon the top. 

Fig Layer Cake. — Twocnnsof white sugar; one- 
halt cup of butter; two and a half cups of flour; 
one cup of milk ; two teaspoonfuls of baking-pow- 
d»r, and the whiles of eight eggs; flavor with va- 
nilla. For the filling take one cup of stoned raisins 
and one lemon, peeled; chop together; then add 
one-half-cup of water and one cup of sugar. 

Apple Custard.— Peel and core eight or ten 
medium-sized apples ; lay them iu cold water until 
the syrup is prepared in which to boil them; make 
a syrup with a teacupful of water, the grated .yel- 
low rind and juice of one lemou, and a few pieces of 
stick cinnamon. When the syrup becomes clear 
put in the apples and timiner uutil soft. Take up 

he apples in in a draining spoon, and put them on 
\he dish in which they are to be served; boil np tho 
syrup and pour over them; make a soft custard 
with the yolks of four eggs, three tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar, aud a scant quart ot milk. When 
cold spread it over the apples. Whip the whitesof 
the eggs, flavor with lemon, and place on the cus- 
tard. Color in the oven. 

Stuffed Cabbage.- Take a large fresh cabbage 
and cut out the heart ; fill the vacancy with stuffing 
made of cooked chicken or veal chopped very fine 
and highly seasoned, and rolled into balls with 
yolk of eggs. '1 ie the cabbage firmly together and 
boil in a covered kettle for two hours. 

Lobster Fritters.— Cut the meat of a cold 
boiled lobster into dice and mix the lobster fat with 
it. Add three-quarters of a cupful of mushrooms 
cut into dice. Season this mixture with celery salt 
and cayenne pepper. Put a piece of butter, half the 
8 za ot an egg, into a saucepan, and when it bubbles 
stir in a tablespoopful of flour Let the flour cook 
a little, then add a cupful of cream and some hnely 
minced parsley. Stir until the sauce thickens, tnen 
add the other ingredients, and stir well until they 
become scalding hot. Remove from the fire and 



22 



Iribnne Extra No. S3. 



siiriii the wcll-boiitcMi yolUsof tlirco cgK-". Spread 
iliis uiixtuiv an iuch tliiek upon a buttcied disbaiul 
sel It upiiii ice 10 liocoino chilled. Tlioii cut it into 
small uanilleloBiiimti, :iiid roll llieiii in tntlei' bat- 
ter, or I'eateu euiis auii bioud cnuubs. Fry tUcm iu 
boil'.ng lard. 

VOLS-Air-VICNT WITH StUAWBI RRIKS.— Wlien tlio 
pa;e-.sbellti ate nearly baUed draw tliem to tiic edije 
oftbeoven and brnsli llio top oTpr with wbite of 
vug beaten up with a litllo water aud slisiUtly 
Kwoftioned. Spnuklo susar over them, and i-turii 
tbem to the oven. \V hen they are done, till them 
with Iresh or preserved fruit, sprinlvling a liiilo 
suKur over fresh Iruit. Serve them wiihout the li.ls 
wiib a spoonful of whipped cream upon each patty. 
Pkune ruDDiXG.— Scald ouo pouud of French 
p.uiics, let them swell in tbo hot water till soft, 
iiraiu aud extract tho stones, spread on a dish aud 
dredge wilh Hour; take a gill of milk from a iiiiart. 
t.tii- luto It gradually eight lablespooululs o( sifted 
Hour; beat six eggs very lisht and stir by degrees 
into remainder ot the quart ot milk, altein.itiug 
■with ihe batter; add prunes, ouo at. a time; boil 
two hours and serve with wiue sauce or cream. 

Cottage Pudding.— One cup of sugar; half cun 
butter; one egg: cup sweet milk; tablespoon lul soda, 
ilissoived lu milk ; two teaapoonlul cream tartar lu 
the tlour; three cups flour: half tea>p.)onful extract 
ot lemon. Sprinkle a liillo sugar over the top just 
before putting in tho oven, bake lu a small bread- 
pan, and when done cut in siinaics. aud sei ve w.tu 
.-:uiL-e mailo of two table.-ipoonful b.itter.cup of sugar, 
tablespoonful tlour wet with a little cold water and 
stirred until like cream: add a pint of boiling 
water, let boil two or three minutes, stirriug all the 
time. After taking from tho lire add half teaspooQ- 
ful extract of lemon. 

Clam Soup.— Fifty clams; onoauartof milk ; one 
piut of water; two tablespooiifus ot butter. Uraiu 
oil' th? liquor from the clams and put it o-\ er the tiro 
with a few bits of Cayeuno pods, half a dozeu blades 
of uiaco aud salt to taste. Let it boil for ton min- 
utes, then put lu the dims and boil half an hour, 
keeping the pot closely covered. If you dislike to 
seo the whole spices lu the tureen, strain them out 
bi->fore the clams are added. At the end of tho half 
Lour add tho milk, which has been heated to seaUf- 
uig, not boiling, iu another vessel, lioil up again, 
taking care the soup does not bum, aud put iu the 
butter. Serve without delay. 

Li;mon' Custahd.— Twelve eggs; twelve cupfuls 
of sugar; six lemons; one tablespoonlul of flnur; 
two leaspoonfuls of cream, tjirato aud sauecze iho 
lemons, mix the sugar well with them, add the well- 
beaten yolk<i, then the Hour, tho cream, and l;ist of 
all, the well-tteateii whites. Bake iu pic-plates, 
liued with rich pull" paste. 

Calk's Huaixs a la Milaxaisi:.— Wash the brains 
carefully ami boil them until lender in salted boil- 
ing water. Maih ilieiu into a smooth paste and sea- 
son well with iieppcr. salt, grated onion, and a little 
Chopped parsley. Moisten the mixture slightly with 



melted butter, then stillen it a little with crackeror 
bread crumbs. Add one or two well-bealen eggs to 
Iliad It, then set it upon ice to become unite cidd. 
Form tie mixture into small round cakes and fry 
thorn delicately in hot butter. Arrange them in the 
centre of a hot platter and place around them a bor- 
der ot »i>(iijhelli (maecaroni) cooked aud dressed with 
tomato sauce, flavored with onion. 

Koval Choqukttes.— Koast a plumn. lender 
rhickeu. aud wuen cool, chop the white nieatns tine 
as uossible, then pound to a smooth paste. .Scald a 
sweetbread and remove Iho siuews. Fry it brown 
in butter, then let it cool. Pound it to a smooth 
paste and add it to the chicken. Season to taste 
with pepper and salt, and add a well-beaten egg. 
Moisten it with rich cream, aud work into it a tci- 
spoontul of flour to give it consisteucv. Stir it well 
over the fire until it becomes hot. then spread it 
upon a buitered dish to cool. Form th:^ niixturu 
into cork shaped croquettes, aud egg, bread crnnib, 
and fry tbem lu the usual way. 

Neapolitan Cake.— Dark part: One cupful of 
butter; two cupfuls of brown sugar: cue cupiul of 
molasses; oue cupiul of strong, cold collce: four 
and a half cupluls of flour; four eggs; two tea- 
spoonfuls of soda well silted with the Hour; two 
teasDoouf nls of powdered cloves; two teaspooululs 
ofeiiiiiamou oue teaspoonful of powdor,-d mace; 
ouo pound of stoned raisins; half a pound of 
ehoppLd figs; halt a pound of well washed and dried 
currants. Bake in jelly-cake pans. 

White part: One cupful of butter; fonr cnpfuls 
of flour; four cupfuls of sugar; two cupfuls ot 
sweet inilk ; two cupfuls of eoru-starch; wnitesof 
eight eggs; six teaspoonfuls of baking pcvder; 
flavor to taste with bitter almond. Bake in jellv- 
cake p ins. Grate tho peel aud squeeze tho ,uice 
from two lemons; add enough pulverized suga^ to 
stifteu the juice; spread it between the cakes, u#ng 
alternately a white aud a dark cike. Frost the top 
aud sides of tho cako with lemon icinc. 

Frksh Pineapple.— When properlv prepared this 
is a delicious fruit for dessert, but .is usually served 
cat round in slices it is uaught. It should bo care- 
fully peeled an 1 all the "eyes" taken out in tbo 
morning of the day on which it is to be used. Leava 
the toomost plume of green leaves, aud sot the fruit 
on tho dish 111 which it is to be served. Then dust 
it thickly wilh powdered sugar and let it stand 
until it IS to be served. Tear it apart with a fork, 
bidding the plume of greeu leaves with the loft 
hand. This mode of serving iusurjs tho rotontiou 
of thench juicos. 

Lamb Cuilets a la Conde — Cut and trim a 
dish of cutlets from a neck of lamb. Larl them 
thickly with sm ill strips of trntlli'v anchovies and 
gherkins, and surround each eutlet with a season- 
ing made with fine breadcrumbs, niu^hrooius. a few 
eliives, a small quantity of shalots, some capers, 
the yolks and whites of two liard-boiled ecgs. all 
elioppid very line, and moistened with olive oil and 
a small piece of butter, till of a proper consistouoy. 



Practical Cookery. 



23 



Add pepper hih! fe»U to ta'te. Keep the seasoning 
in pl.ce on tucb cutlet with a small piece of tiie 
franepar.-ni ^t]n that covers the lat iii (lie inside of 
<lio Itmb, rnd fix the cailcts 1o x r,i.iall spit, eovcr- 
uis th'm T7ith oUe<] or buttered paper. Cook th»ra 
in front of a cjear fire. When done, dust them over 
wilh hro-R-ncd bieadcrunrihs, and dioh them up very 
hot w ith a good glazed gravy made iioin veal. Gar- 
BJsli with slices of lemon. 

Soft Cbabs Beoii.i;d.— After drj-ing and clean- 
ln.j them well teasou iheui highly with ca.Tcnuc 
reppcr and fait, and broil them over a clear hot 
fire. Servo very hoc. Serve maitro d'hotel bultc: 
OiEancs tartaic with them. 

fCAiLoptD CmcKEN.-Cut cold roast or boiled 
clnckeu as for Falad. S,as<.ii ii niceiy with pepper, 
fair, min.cd onioa and piivslcy. Woist.n it with 
chickenferavy or cream sauce; fill scallop shells 
with the mixture ami SMJnlJe bread-crumbs over 
icc tops. Put, two or throe pieces of buiter Ihe size 
Ota small while bean upoii each, and brown them 
quickly in a hot ovca. 

CiUB CROQuicrrrs.-Pick the meat of boiled 
crabs and chop it hue. So;, .sou to taste with popper, 
salt and curry-powder. Muisieu it well with lich 
fciock or cream, then i>tifteu il slightly with bre.id 
or cracker crumbs. Aild Two or three weil-beateu 
eggs to bind the inixlurc. Form the croquettes, 
esK and bread-crumb Ihcm and fry them delicately 
in boiling lard. Uisbetler to use a wire frying- 
b:isket for ciociuctles ot all kinds. 

.Sally Lunn.— Three ecg.g, one pint of sweet milk, 
Ealt, two tables]>ooiifulsof lard or butler (or one 
tablespoonfulof each) melted, three pints of flour, 
halt a pint of hop yeast. Separate the yolks aud 
whites of the eggs and bene them very light. Add 
themilk totheyolk.s, theu the salt and flour and 
whites. S(ir in the yeast and heat ail together until 
very light. Butter the cake or bread-pan, ponr m 
the batter and let it rise over night. Bake an hour 
or longerin amodeiato oven and servo it hot for 
breakfast. 

Biscuit Glace.— Make a quart of rich boilei 
cusiard, flavor it with vanilln, aud let it cool. Theu 
mix with it a quart of grated i.ineaiiple or mashed 
peaches. Stir ihem well together and add enough 
tugar to allow lor Ihe loss in freezing. Freeze in 
the ubiial way, stirring in a pint of cream, whipped, 
when it is beginning to set in the freezer. Tartly 
fill iittle paper cases with the misluro and smooth 
the tops nicely. Place them carefully in the 
cleaned and dried freezer and let them remain im- 
bedded iu ice for several hours. Sometimes the 
cases are filled with pistachio or chocolate ice- 
cream, in which case blanched almonds are laid 
over the tops when they are seived. Or they may 
behlkd with fiozen whipped cream and served 
with a spoonful of some bright sheibert upou the 
top of each. 

Cream Sponge CARe.—yoIksofeighteggs beaten 
to the lightest possible cream, two cupfuls of sugar, 
tliroe teaspocipfuls of baking-powder sifted well 



with flonr. Bake in thiee jelly-cake pans. Make 
an icing of Ihe whites of three eggs and one pound 
of sugar. Spread it between the cakes aud spriukla 
grated cocoanut thickly over each layer. It is de- 
licious when properly made. 

Icc:-Cream Cake.— One pound of sugar, ona 
pound of flour, half a pound of butter, whites of 
eight eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, two tfaspoon- 
fuls of cream of tartar, one tablespoonful of extract 
01 almond, one-third of a cupful of sweet milk. 
Dissolve the soda in a tablespoonful of warm water. 
Bake In jeJly-cakc pans. 

iPA_Ki.sH Cri;am.— Ore ounce of isinglass (the 
kind that comes in long pieces and is clear), oue 
quart of milk, ioitr eggs, sugai to taste. Dissolve 
the isinglass in the milk. B^at the yolks of the eggs 
to a cream with a little sugar, stir in the dissolved 
isinglass, raste to see if it is sweet enough, then stir 
it over the fire until it is just ready to come to a 
boil. Remove at ouco and flavor with vanilla or 
wine. Have the whites of the eggs beaten to a stilf 
froth, aud stir them into the cusiard as soon as it is 
removed from the fire. They will remain partly on 
top. Four the mixture into moulds aud set iu a cool 
place. In twenty-fours it will be ready to use. The 
top should look clear as amber and the custard 
should be below, forming two separate layers. It 
should be served with sauce. 

Fried Chicken.— Cut the chicken into sis or 
eight pieces. Season well with salt aud pepper. 
Dip in beaten egg and then iu fine bread crumbs in 
which there is one teaspounful of chopped parsley 
for every cupful of crumbs. Din again iu the ecg 
and crumbs. Fry ten minutes lu boiling fat. Cover 
the centre of a cold dish with Tartare sauce. Ar- 
range the chicken on this aud garnish with a bor- 
der of pickled beets, or it can be served with cream 
sance. 

Fillet OF Brkf A l'Allemant>.— Trim tlio fillet 
aud skewer it into good shaiie. S^^asou well with 
pepper and salt. Have one ea-g and half a tea- 
spoonful of sugar well-beaten tog'jther ; roll the 
fillet in this and then iu uread crumbs. B.ike in 
the oven for thirty miuutes. Serve with Allemand 
sauce poured around it. 

Stkawbekry Cream.— Three pints ot straw- 
berries mashed fine. Strain the juice, and add a 
heaping cup of sugar, aud then gelatine soaked 
aud dissolved in a teacup of boiling water. Add a 
pint ot whipped cream aud pour into moulds. 

Gold Cake.— One cup of sugar: half a cup of 
butter; two cups of flour ; yolks of six eggs; grated 
rind and juice of a lemon or orange; half a tea- 
spoonful of soda, mixed with the flour, and siftad 
twice. Cream the butter ; add the sugar, then the 
beaten yolks and the flour, beating hard for sev- 
eral minutes. Last, add the lemon or orange juice, 
aud bake : frosting, if liked. 

Crullers.— One pint of sweet milk, one pint of 
sugar, quarter ot a pound of butter, three or four 
eggs well beaten separately, two tablespoonfu's of 
cream of tartar, about two pounds of flour, or just 



24 



Tribune Extra 2fo. 85. 



rnoiish to niiikp a very soft doagli. rose water and 
pratcnl nulini'K to taste. Koll out thin; raako tlie 
cakeH small nnct round, will) a hole in the criitre. 
Fry m boiiinj! l:iid, and after draniinc tlicin well 
roll tbeni in powduruii susar flavored with eiiiua- 
mou. A little brandy may be added if liked. 

KUT CaN1)Y. — Tliree poiimlN of wliile HU^'ar ; half 
» piu» of water : half a pint of vineRir; quarter of 
a pound of butter; one pound of hickory-nul kernels. 
Put the .susiar, butter, viii"'-'ar and water tncitlier 
into » thick Kauee-pan. When it becins t.i thickim 
add the nuts. To test it, take up a v.ry .small <|iian- 
tity as ((uiekly as po,smV)to directly from the centre, 
takinic c;ire not to dis:urb it any more than is neces- 
sary. JJtop it into cold water and rtnnovi' from the 
lire the moment the little p.irticlen arc brittle. Tour 
juto bultereJ plates. 

Cannicd I'lNKAPPLE. — Pare rip", jiiiiy pine-ipples 
and cut them into slices an ineli thick. Allow <|uar- 
ter of a oound of tupar to each pound of fruit. Put 
them into the preservini; ketile tmjether, and if 
there is not enough juice add very liltio water. As 
Koou as they are well scalded through put into hot 
jars and seal at once. 

LonsTKU Safce roR Roiled Fisn.— One small 
lobfter, four tablespoonfuls of butter, twoof Hour, 
onc-tiflh of a teaipoonful of Cayenne, two table- 
spoonfuls of lemon juice, one pint of boilinu water. 
Cut the meat into dice. Pound the "coral" >vith 
one tablespoonful of the butter. Kub the fhrnr and 
the remaiiiiler of the butter to a smooth p;isti'. 
Add the water, pounded " coral," and butler, and 
the seasoning. Simmer five minutes, and thuu 
strain on the lobster. Uoil up once aud servo. 

HOUSF.KKEPFU'S POTATOES.— One quart of cold 
boiled potatoes, cut into dice; one pini of stock, 
one tablespoontul of chopped parsley, one of butler, 
one teaspoonful of lemon juice, suit, pepper, feea- 
Bon the potatoes with the salt and |)Cppcr, and add 
the stock. Cover, and simmer twelve miuutos. Add 
lemou juice, butter, aud parsley, and simiuor two 
mlLuies longer. 

CniCKEX Souffle.— One pint of cooked chickcu, 
finely chopped; one pint of cream sauce, four egijs, 
a little onion juice, salt, popper. Stir the chicken 
and seasoning into tlie boiling sauce. Cook two 
minutes. Add the yolks of the eggs, well beaten, 
and set away to cool. When cold, add the whites, 
beaten to a slid froth. Turniutia buttered dish, 
and bake half an hour. Servo with mushroom or 
cream sauce. This dish must bo served the moment 
it is baked. 

STI5AWBERUY SpoNGE.— Ono quart of strawber- 
ries, half a package of gelatine, one cupful and a 
half of water, one cupful of sugar, the juice of a 
lemon, the while-i ot four eugs. Soak the gelatine 
for two honrs in half a cupful of the water. Mash 
the strawberries, and add half the sugar to them, 
lioil the remainder of the sugar and the water 
gently twenty minutes. Ivub the strawberries 
through a sieve. Add the gelatine to the boiling 
Hyiup aod take from the lire immediately; thou ad^ 



the strawberries. Pl.ico in a pan of ico walor and 
beat five minute.s. Add tho whites of esgf and boat 
until the mixture bo;;iui to thicken. Pour iii the 
moulds and set aw.ay to harden. S rye with uut'ar 
and cream. Kaspbcny aud bUckborr.v apansos are 
made in the same way. 

Maids oif Hon'OIS. — Ono capful of sweet milk, 
one of sour, one of su^ar, a lemon, tho yolks of four 
egas, a speck of salt. Put all tho milk in the double 
boiler aod cook I'util it curdj; then strain. IJub 
the curd through a, sieve. Boat the bugar and yolks 
of eggs together, and add the riud aud juico oi ihe 
lemon, and tho curd. Lino little oalty p.in8 with 
pulV or chopped past*, rolled very tliin. Put a 
large spoonful of the mixture in each one. an ! bake 
from fifteen to twenty minutes in a moderate oveu. 
Do not remove from the pans until cold. 

Amiikust PfDDlNG.— Three-fourths of a cupful 
of butter, three-fourths of a piut of BU.';ar, four eggs 
five tablespoonfuls of strained anph', the graiod 
riud an<l thejaice of a lemoi, and uulmegand rose- 
w.iter. if you like, liako half an hour in a moderato 
oven, in a shallow pudding dish that baa been liueJ 
with a neb paste, rolled vi-ry thin. Let it bccomo 
partially cool before serving. 

Coffee Ice Cream.— ^his is a delicious dessert 
for hot weaibor. Pound two ounc;'S of freshly 
roasted cotlee in a mortar just enougli to thoroughly 
crush the berries without reducing them to powdur. 
Put them into a pint of milk with six ounces of loaf 
sugar; let it lioil, then leave it to got cold ; straiu 
it on tho yolks of six eggs in a double kettle, and 
stir on the fire until the custard thickens. |{^ sura 
that it does not curdle. When quite c »ld work into 
it a gill and a halt of crea n whipped to a froth. 
Freeze the mixture in the ice-cream freezer, thou 
UU a plain uDUld with it aud put it in the freezer 
till the time of serving. 

MoussELlN'E PlddinG.— Four ounces ot pounded 
sugar, lour ounces of fresh butter, the nnd of one 
lemon and th-i iniee of two with the yolks of tea 
eggs, to be mixed togetherin a saucepan and stirred 
ton a slow tire until quite hot; then strain the m X- 
nre iuto a basin and amalgamate lightly with u, 
as in making a sonfHi'', the whites of tho eggs 
whisked into a stiff froth. Pour into a well-but- 
tered mould, and steam for twenty miautes. Serve 
with any kind of jam sauce. 

Ragout of M otto .s.— Three ponnds of any of 
the cheap parts of mutton, si.x tab:e«pooiuuls of 
butler, three of flour, six bufoa ouious, or oub ot 
tho common siz), oua largo white tiirnip, 
cut into little cubes; salt, pepper, ono qiiarC 
of water and a bouquet of siveot hi-rbs. 
Cut the meat in small pieces. Put three tablespojii- 
fulseach of butter aud flour iu the stew-pan. an I 
wlimhotand smooth add the m.^al. Stir until ^ 
rich brown, aod thou add water and set where ic 
widsimuor. Put three tablespoonfuls of butter lu 
a frving-pan, and when hot put in the 
turnips anl onions with a te.ispoonful 
of llour. Stir all the time until a golden 



Prac'ical Cookery. 



25 



brown; then drain and pulj with the me:it. 
Simmer for an hour and a half. Garnisli with rice, 
loasted bread, plain boiled macaroni or mashed pn- 
tatoes. Small cubes of potato can be added half an 
hour before dishing. Serve very hot. 

CocoANUT Ice cream. — One quart of cream, one 
pint of milk, three egss, one cupful and a half of 
sugar, one cupful of prepared cocoanut, the rind and 
juice of a lemon. Beat together the et;gs and grated 
lemon rind, and put with the milk in the double 
boiler. Stir until the mixture bpgiiis to thicken. 
Add the cocoanu and put away to cool. When cool 
add the sugar, lemon juice and cieam. Freeze. 

Raspberry Sherbict.— Two quarts of raspberries, 
one cup of sugar, one pint and a half of water, the 
juice of a laige lemon, one tablespoonful of gela- 
tine. Slash the bernes and sugar together and let 
them stand two hours. Soak the gelatine in cold 
water to cover. Add one pint of the water to t'\e 
berries, and strain. Dissolve the gelatine in half a 
pint of boilmg water, add this to the strauied mix- 
ture aud fieeze. 

Omklet Souffle a la Creme.— Four eggs, two 
tahlespoonfuls ot sugar, a speck of salt, half a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla excract. one cupful of whipprd 
cream. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stift' froth, 
and gradually beat the sugar and the flavor luio 
them. When well beaten add the volks, and lastly 
the whipped cream. Have a dish holding about 
one quart slightly buttered. Pjur the mixture into 
this aud base just twelve minutes. Serve the 
moment it is taken Jrom the oven. 

Elack t'AKK. — Three cnpfuls of butter, cue quart 
of sugar, three pints of flour, half a jint of molas- 
ses, half a pint ot brandy, half a pint of wine, oue 
teaspoonful of saleratus, one ounce each of all 
kinds of spices, twelve eggs, three pounds of rai- 
sin?, two of currants, half a pound of citron. Baka 
iu deep pans, iu a laj lera.e oT3a, b3twa3u three 
aud four hours. This is one of the best of rich 
cakes. 

DE\^LLKD Ckabs. — One dozen fresh crabs boiled 
and pickled ; quarter of a pound of fresh butter; 
one small teasooouful of mustard powder; Cay- 
enne pepper and salt to taste. Put the meat into a 
bowl and mix carefully with it an equal quantity 
of tine bread crumbs. Work the butoer to alight 
cream, mix the mustard well with it, then stir in 
verj' caietully. a handful at a time, the mixed crabs 
and crumbs. Season to taste with Cayenne pepper 
and salt, fill the crab shells with the mixture, 
sprinkle bread crumbs over the tops, put three 
small pieces of bntler upon the top of each, ind 
brown them quickly In a hot oven. They will 
piifl' in baking and will tie found very nice. Half 
the quantity can be made. 

Potato Scallops.— Boil and mash the potatoes 
soft with a liirlo milk or cream. B^at up lig.i 
with melted batter— a dessprtspooiiful for every half- 
pint of the potato — salt and pepper to taste. Fill 
Fome patty-pans or buttered scallnp shells with th^! 
mixture, aud brown in the oven when yo\i have 



stamped a pattern upon the top of each. Glaze, 
while hot, with butter, and serve in the shells. 

Ladies' Cabbage.— Boil a firm white cabbaeo 
fifteen minutes, changing the water then for moro 
from The boiling teakettle. When tender, drain, and 
set aside until perfectly cold. Chop fine, aud add 
two beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of butter, pepper, 
salt, three tablespoonfuls rich milk or cream. Stir 
all well together, and bake in a buttered pudding 
dish until brown. Serve very hot. 

Ginger Crackers.— One pound of Prown sugar, 
one pound of butter, four pounds ot flour, one quart 
of molasses, two ounces of ground ginger, two 
ounces of ground cloves. Put half the flour into a 
large bowl, and rub the buttorintoit with the handj 
until it becomes as fine as pulverized sugar; then 
add the sugar, molas<es and spices. Workiu gradu- 
ally the rest of the flour and knead it as thoroughlj- 
as for bread. The more it is kneaded the crisperaud 
better the crackers -n ill be. KoU out thin, cut with 
around cake-cutter, and bake ni a mocleratelv 
heated oven. These crackers are excellent, and will 
keep fresh and crisp for a longtime if excludea from 
the air. 

Frozen Plt)D1ng.— Boil one quart of milk and 
stir into it a lull teaspoonful of arrowroot, moist- 
ened with milk. When smooth, pour it over the 
well-beaten yolks of six eggi. stirring hard. Add 
strawberry preserves, braiidied fruits, fruit cake or 
plain cake, ciiron. stoned raisins, aud currants. 
Sweeten to taste, .add half a tumblerlul of sherry 
wine and one aud a half wineglassl'uls of brandy. 
Flavor with vanilia and fieeze as ice-cream. Mould 
i.i a melon-shaped mould. After turning the pud- 
ding out upon a platter, spread all over it the whites 
of six eggs beaten to a stiff froth with a little sugar 
and brandy. 

Chocolate Jelly. — Four small cakes of choco. 
lute grated and one and a half pints of milk b uled 
together. Then add sugar and vanilla to taste, an 1 
one box of gelatine dissolved m a little w;itei'. Boll 
all together for a few miuules, then sot away to 
cool. 

Banana Frittirs.— Four eggs, one pint milk, a 
little salt, flour enough to make a light batter. 
Beat the eggs into the milk, aud adu salt and flour. 
Stir in, pretty thickly, bananas, slico^l thiu. Fry m 
hot laril. 

Eo-->e Perfume.— Gather all the fragrant roses 
you can— no matter if you are a week gathering. — 
and when you get a good many, take an iron mor- 
tar aud pestle, like a diuggist "has, fill the mortar 
aud pound the leaves to a pulp. It will bo quite 
l.ke a lump of dough. Then take your thimble and 
use it foi a measure — till it full of the mixture, empty 
out into j'our band, and between your palms roll 
and roll, until you make .a compact little ball, round 
as a marble. Make up all your rose dougli material 
this way, p'ace on plates aud dry in the suushiue. 
They will be dark and brown-looking, out 

'• The scent ot the roses will cliug to them still." 
These are to put in drawers and tru iks aad 



26 



Jribune JSxtra Ho. 85. 



biinilboxes. and ainoiic your l)rd and table and 
towel Ini.ii. ami tli.-v will bo jiist as fra«raiit fur 
years as wlieii ym plucked the slicirl-Iivod beauties 
and liiuiod your lace lovingly down iutoilieir fiJow- 
iuts red bearls. 1 have made beads of tliem by uiak- 
iuK tliem a trillo smaller and drying tliem with pins 
stuck tlirouab tlio ccntros. Then thov caji be 
btrimc- Airain. 1 liave made thorn into little thin 
cakes the size of cracUers. Tlioy are nice any way, 
for the iireatcliariM remains the same. Now sup|)os- 
inu' an old blind man didn'tdio and will you his (in 
box and all his traps, incindine an apotlieeary's 
mortar and pestle, like he did me. Not linelv. 15iit 
'•where there's a will," etc., etc. You can take your 
Btew Uetll* and your potato-masher in a pinch.— 
[Weekly llawkeye. 

HoJiiNY Cr.oQUETTi:s.— To a cuplnl of cold boiled 
homiuv addataMe.-poonlul of nielied butter; stT 
•well, then add gradually a cupfui of milk, slirrini: 
andmisiiins the hominy until it becomes a soft, 
nmoolh paste. Then add a teaspoonful of white 
KUisar and a well-beaten esg. Kidl into oval balls 
Willi llonre.l hands, roll in beaten eggs, then lu 
bread crulnb^^. and try in boiliiiiJ laid. 

Salmon Pattiks.— Cut cold cooked salmon into 
dice. Jleat about a pint of ibe dice in half a pint of 
ci-fam, or Uollandiiise sauce. S-asou to taste with 
Ccycn'nc peup.r and salt. Fill the shells and serve. 
Cold cooked lish of -any kiml may be made lulo 
paliiesiii this way. Use auy lish sauce you choose 
—all .lie equally good. 

Siiiltm:D Kr,(iS.— Hntter a dish, and bre.ik into a 
numlicrof efc'RS, laking care that they dn not en- 
croach upon each other enough to break the yolks. 
Sprinkle pepper and ealt over them, put a small 
piece of butter upon each, aud add a tablespoon ful of 
cream for each egg. bake in a hot ereu uutil the 
•whites are set. 

Nun's Toast.— Cut four or five hard-boiled escs 
Into slices. Put a piece of butler half the size of an 
egg into a sauin-pan. and when it begins to bubble 
add a finely chopped onion. Let the onion ccok a 
little without taking color, then stir in a teaspoon- 
ful of flour. Add a cuptul of m:ik, and stir uutil 
it becomes J-mooth; then put in the slices of egi^s 
and let them get hot. Pour it over ueatlv Innimed 
dices of hot buttered toast. The sauce u^usl be 
Bcasoncd lo taste with pepper aud salt. 

COKN Loaf.— Four eggs, whites and yolks beaten 
as light as possible, separately ; one quart of corn 
meal: qnarler of a pound of hntter; two qu .rts of 
boiliiig milk; a tea.spooul'ul of salt mixed well with 
the corn meal. Melt the butter iu the milk, aud 
Bcald the corn meal •with it, beating and stirriuu 
■well until It becimies perf :!etly smooth, then arid 
the light yoiks and lastly the stitUv beaten whites. 
Bake in a quick oven. Half tUj quantity wUl make 
a good sized loaf. 

TuANSPAiir.NT PcDDrsG.— Butter a pudding dish, 
and line it with slices of stale sponge cake cut an 
inch thick. I'ut stewed or ripe IrcsU fruit, or pre- 
jervcs, in the bottom of the Uisb upou the cake. 



Beat to a cream the yolks of eight eggs, quarter of 
a pound of Migar and half a pound of bntl'r. Flavor 
to taste with rose or peach water, add half a grated 
nutmeg, ami stir in lightly the slifllv beaten whites 
of the eggs. Pour the mixture over the fruit and 
bake half an hour. Beat the whites of four eggs to 
a stiflfroth and add four tablespoonfuls of sugar; 
spread over the pudding af'er it is baked and re- 
turn it to the oven for a few minutes to color. To 
be eaten cold, with or without cream. 

Tir-Top Cake. — One pound of sugar, one cupful 
of buvier, four eggs, one cupful of milk, one pound 
ofchopp d raisins, half a pound of chopped ligs. half 
a grated nutmeg, one small teaspoonfiil of soda, one 
teaspoon ful of cream of tartar, flour lo make it of 
a proper consistency. 

PofAiOKs A LA N'KiGr;.— Hoil or hake the piti- 
toes. raasli theiu well. dre»8 thein with cre.nn, but- 
ter aud salt, aud pr>--is them through a colander 
into the hot dish ill which they are to be served. 
Pile theiu up high and serve very hot. 

Spinach. — Wa-vh aud pick over carefully a peck of 
young aud fleshly guthereil spinach. It is better 
lo wash it ill several waters aud then, that it may 
bo entirely free from gi^it or sand, throw it liually 
iuto fresh, cltar water. Drain it well by shaking 
it iu a seive. lioil it about hfleeu or twenty min- 
utes, in slightly (-ailed boiling water. Wheu ten- 
der, drain it well, shaking it about iu a coiaiider 
until quite dry. Serve it on pieces of toast, dipped 
for a niomenl in the water the spinach was boiled 
in. Season with pepper and salt aud put plenty of 
butter, cut into small pieces, ovor it. Garnish the 
dish with slices of hard-boiled eggs. 

SlACAiioxi A l'Italik.nxk.— Cut a chicken into 
joints aud stew or fry it. In either case make a 
cream gravy, Hoil a large handful of macaroni in 
sailed boiling waier until it begim to swell, then 
pour oil the water. After pouring oft the water, 
cover the macaroni with milk. Se.isou nioely with 
pepper and salt and throw in a large onion, peeled. 
Let it boil nulil tender, then drain it well. Arrange 
the chicken in the ceutre of a hot platter, aud make 
a border around it ot the macaroui; pour the cream 
gravy over .all, aud serve at once. 

^WEl:T-Bul•;AD CKogu KITES. — A plump tongue, 
boiled until tenJer. then cooled, seven or eight 
8weet-brea.ls, Scald the sweet-breads, remove the 
sinews, tneu Iry them in butter. CMiop the loiigue 
very hue, then pound it to a smooth paste iu a 
mortar. Pound the sweet-breads to a p.isto and 
add it to the tongue. Mix well together and season 
to tasie Willi pepper, salt, grated oiiiim aud minced 
parsley. Add three well-beat -n eggs, and moistou 
the whole with veal stock, u^akiug it as moist as it 
can be handled. Form the croquettes, egg and 
bread crumb them, aud let thoiu color a golden 
brown lu boiling lard. If alhiwed to take too deep 
a cohr tliey will harden and bei-poiled. Sonieiimes 
the mixture is made quite moist with veal stock 
and then still'eued slightly with bread crumbs. 

LuctA PunnisG.— One largo cocoauul grated bnd 
the milk; eight lar,:o Irish potatoes, boiled dtai 



Practical Coolery, 



27 



mashed smooth; three pints of milk; one uutnjeg; 
oue gill of rum or brandj"; a lump of biirter the size 
of an egg; oue pound and a quarter of sugar; six 
eggs. Take the whites of the egars and half the 
sugar, whip them up well and put on the top of 
the pudding after it is done, returning it theu to 
the OTen to brown. Bake about two hours. 

Hdcklebi-rry Pudding.— One quart of ripe fresh 
huckleberries or blueberries: hilf a teaspootiful 
of mace or nutmeg; three eggs well b:^aten, sepa- 
Tately; two cupful s of sugar; four la'ge tfasp.ion- 
fnls of butter ; one cupful of sweet milk; one pint 
of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Roll 
the berries well iu the flour, aui add them last of 
all. Bake haif an hiur ami serve with sauce. 
There is no more delicate and delicious pudding 
than this. 

Woodcock, Fried— Dress and wipe them clean. 
Tie the legs close to the body; skin the heads and 
lifcks, and tie the beaks under tha wing: tie. also, 
a very thin piece of bacon around the breast of each 
Tbird, and fry in boiling hirJ. ll only requires a few 
moments — say two minutes — to cook tiiem. Season, 
and serve them on toast. 

PoiVRADE Sauce. — Mince au onion ; fry it a yel- 
low color, with bnttiT in a stew-jian ; pour on a gill 
of vinegar; let it remain oa the fire until a third of it 
it is boiled away ; then add a pint of giavy or stock. 
a banch of parsley, two or throe cloves, pepper and 
salt ; let it boll a minute ; thickeu it with a little 
flf ur and butter ; strain it and remove any particles 
of f .it. 

.Stuffing for Veal.— Soak half a pound of broad 
(with the crust ofl' in tepid water, then squeeze it 
rlry. Put three ounces of butter into a stew-pan, 
and when hot stir in a small oniop minced (one and 
a half ounces), which color slightly ; then add the 
Tjreail, with three tablespoon fuls of par.sley (half 
an ounce) chopped fine, half a teaspoonful of 
powdered thyme, a little grated nutmeg, pepper. 
Bait and a gill of stock. Stir it over the fire until it 
leaves the bottom and sides; then mis in two eggs. 

Fritters. — Foureggs; one pint of milk; the rind 
ol oue grated lemon; a little salt; flour to make a 
light batter. Beat the eggs into the milk; add 
Jemoti. salt and flour. Fry in hot lard and servo 
■fith wine. 

Preservi^d Tomatoe-s.— Take ripe, but nofsoft. 
little yellow tomates .and pour boiling water over 
them to take of! the skins. Make a syrup of oue 
pound of sugar to one of tomatoes, putting in only 
enoagh water to dissolve the sugar. Take three 
lemons to each seven pounds of tomatoes; slice, and 
put in the syrup, first removing the seeds. When 
the s.yrup is boiled clear put in the tomatoes aud 
buil gently three-quarters of au hour. 

Peach Shortcake.— Make a soft dough of one 
quart of sittcd flour mixed with two heaping tea 
Bpooufnls of bakiiis powder, a generous tablespoon- 
ful of butter, a little salt, and sufficient sweet milk. 
Eoll out thin, put a laver in a baknig-pan, and 
sprinkle with flour aua bits of butter; make feur 



Layers like this, using no butter and flour on the 
top layer. Bake in a quick oven, turn out upsirto 
down, remove the layers, and place ripe peaches, 
cut up and sweetened, between each layer. Serve 
as a cake, with cream and sugar. 

Fillet of Beef.— After it is trimmed and larded, 
put it into a small baking-pan, in the bottom of 
which are some chopped pieces of pork and beef- 
suct; sprinkle some salt and pepper over it and put 
a large ladleful of Lot stock into the bottom of the 
pan, or it may bo siuiply basted with boiling water. 
Halt an hour (;f the oveu is very hot, as it should 
be.) before dinner put it into the oven. Basle it 
often, supplying a little hot stock if necessary. 

PouLET a la Markngo.— Cut Up an Uncooked 
fowl as for .a fricassee, and fry the pieces in olive 
oil, with a bruised clove of garlic, pepper, salt and 
a fagot of sweet herbs. Take three ta'jiespomifuis 
of the oil u.sed in frying the fowl, add some miuced 
mushroom.'--, a little shallot and parsley also linoiy 
minced, a glass of white wine, as much st"ck, free 
from far, as you want sauce, pepper aud salt to 
taste. Let the sauce boil a few minutes; dish up 
the pieces of fowl, pour the sauce over, aud serve. 

Green Corn Soup. — Cut the kernels from a dozen 
large ears of green corn, and just cover them in a 
stewpan with boiling water. Boil halt an hour, add 
a quart of milk, pepper and sale to taste, and a, 
spoonfnl of fiesh butter. Beat three eggs very light 
with a tahlespoonful of coru-stareh. When the 
soup just Climes to the boiling point again stir in the 
egcs, aud serve quickly. 

String Beans in Salad.— String the lieaijs and 
boil them whole; when boiled tender aud thev hsve 
become cold, slice them lengthwise, cutting each 
bean into f<rar long slices; place them neatly, the 
slices all lying in one diiecrion, crosswise on a plat- 
ter. Season them, an hour or two before-serving, 
with a marinade of pepper, salt, and three spoon- 
fuls of vinegar to one spoonful of oil. Just before 
serving drain from them any (irons th.at may have 
cnllected, and carefully mis them with a French 
dressing. This makes a delicious salad. 

GkRJJAN Cake.— Oue pound of flour, three-quar- 
ters of a pound of butter, sis ouncjs of sugar, one 
egg, half a cupful of rum. Bake iu a pie-uan. press- 
ing the cake until it is about one-quarter of an inch 
high. Before baking sprinkle sugar and ground 
cinnamon on top; after it is baked, cut it into 
squares while it is yet warm. 

Croquante Cake. — Three-quarters of a pound of 
sliellcd almonds, half a pouad ot citron, three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar, throe-qnarters of a 
pound of flour, sis eggs. Blanche an I halve the 
almonds, and slice the citrou ; mis them well to- 
gether and roll them iu flour; add to them the sugar, 
theu the eggs (well beateu), lastly tnefluur. Butter 
shallow pans and lay in the mixture two -inches 
thick. Alter it is baked iu a quick oven, slice the 
cake into strips one inch wide, and turn every strip. 
Return the pan to the oven aud bake the sides a 
little. When cold, put it away in tin boxes. This 



28 



Tribune Extra No. 85. 



cnUe will k.-.,. a year or more, aud for reserve use IB 
quite invaluable. 

ItrKFSTKAK, WITH OuVKS.— Take a piece of niiiip 
Ble;ik cut it in bUcos tliree-eiKlitlin ot i.u inch tlii.k, 
ami trim tl.eni int.. shape. Melt plenty of butter 
iDHbatinK-tin, lay thelillelaot beef in this, an.i 
let them stuml in a warm pi ue for an iiour or so : 
then sprinkle tbem witli pepper an.l salt, and try 
thorn in Kome very hoi butter, turnina tbem to let 
b.ith sifies take eolor. Siono a <iiiantuyof olives 
and parboil tbem. Frv Bom? onions a brown color 
in butter, add a little tb.ur, and, when that is 
coio-ed, as nuieh stock as you wan sauce, with pep- 
per, salt, and si.iees to taste. Let the saueo boil, 
theu strain it. add the olives, and serve when quite 
hot, with the lillets in a circle round Ihera. 

Vkai, HA.sii.-Take a teacup of boiling water in a 
SniioB-iwD. stir in an even teaxpoonful Hour wet in a 
tableapoouful cold water, and let It boll five min- 
Tites- add one half-teaspoonlul black pepper, as 
niuohsalt* andtwo tablespoonfuls butter, and let it 
keep hot. but not boil. Chop the veal tine, and mix 
viih it hall as much stale breadcrumbs. Put it m 
pan and pour the gravy over it, then let it simmer 
ten minutes. Serve this on buttered toas'. 

SaI-4.1' —Put '" tto bettom of the salad dish a 
laverofcoia boiled potatoes, sliced tbiQ ; sprinkle 
pepper and salt over ihj slices, then pui a layer of 
boded lima beans, and so on. alternately, until the 
dish 18 full. Season each layer with i>eppcr and 
salt and over the lop, a few minutes before serving, 
pour enough vinegar to llavnr the sal.ad; mix ml 
■with the vinegar ; mustard may be added to suit the 
taste. 

MlAT PiF.-Cnt cold cwked moat iuto quite small 
die" add pepper, salt, a little nutmeg, aud two or 
three songs of chopped parsley ; also a little thyme 
and a piece of bay-leaf if you have them, but the 
two latter herbs may be omitted. Put a little bu ter 
into a saucepan, and when hot throw in a tabU- 
Bpoonful of Hour, which brown carefully; pour in 
iheu several tablespooufuls of hot water, or better, 
Btock- i'»^ "•«^" : '1'*^^ introduce the meatdiec ; stir 
all well over the tire, cooking it thorough^. Just 
before takini? it un. mix in one or two eggs. It 
should be duito moist, yet consistent. Pui a thin 
pio-crnst into a pud.ling-d.sh. Fill in a few ta ble- 
Bpoonfuls of the mixture: then lay on it a thin strip 
of bacon; continue these layers until the dish is 
filled. Now fit a piece of crust over the top; turn 
the edges in a fancy manner, and make a cut in the 
centre. Take a strip of pie-paste, form it into a tie 
or knot, wet the bottom, and place it over the cut 
in the centre of the pie, s.) as not to obstruct the 
opening. . 

I.i-MON JELLT.-Half a box of gelatinn soaked in 
balfapuitof w.ater; juice of five largo lemons; 
two cupfuls of loaf-sugar, or sujar t) taste ; beaten 
trhite and shell of .lu egg; one and a halt pints of 
boiling water. Soak the gelatine in the half pml of 
■«ater half an hour. Knb several of the pieces . f 
the sugar on the peel of the lomon. to soak the ml 
ou the buiface. Pour a pint uui a half ol boiling 



water ou the soaked gelatine, and add emon jn oe. 
sugar and egg; let it come to a ^^o'l'/Uen set U a 
the Hide of the range a few moments; skim care 
luUy aud pass through the jellv-bag into iioulds. 

STKWKP ToMATOK8.-Pour boiling wat^r over six 
or eigh. large tomatoes to remove the skin, and t eu 
oi iitt.. > wiifii tliev begin to boil 

cut them into a saucepan. W hen t » > "^'- j 

„ li.n.. .>f the iuicc : add a small pieci oi 
Dour away a little oi ini jiiiLi- , " . . 

Liter, pepper, salt, aud a very "" « "''^-^^^ , 

tlH-m cook for about fifteen minutes, stnni.L in 

w':,! thJseasouing. Someadd a few bread orera.ker 

'""uS"a l.'IvmKNXF. (FOB Fi.HV-Make half a 
p,' of Uite sauce, add a t^blespoonful of eiirry 
powder, and some pickles chopped small, w.tu 
little of the vinegar. 

lio.STONl3AKF.D BKANS.-Piek over the beans re 
jecting all imperfect ones; soak them over night 
u the morning parbo;l them till th. ^l^'' J^;,f^ 
open, dip them from the kettle ^^^^ » /^"[^^.t 
skimmer into a glazed e.,rthen pot «- ^ •« "^^^ 
Put in the top of the pot a piece or fat 8..U por 
vsith the nnd scored, cover w.-h -"^'^^^'^11;^ 
cover of dough or .in and bake lu an oven no v.ry 
hot, for six hours. If the oven is of "nek the^ may 
be ;ut ,n at night and remain till 7--^;.^.'^,^"': 
or suet may be used instead of pork, bouu times 
t ibCoonf ul of molasses is nut ,n when the salt .s 

nassed through a sieve, pepper and s to t a^to. 
When .1 boils thro>v in, tor every cupful of stock, 
l,U a cupful ot fine lice well w.ashed, -'^ '^; J^*^^ 
fore the tire. Let the whole remain on the hre until 

rr.ce i^as absorbed all the stock, then melt a 
Urge tablesp..oulul of butler, and pour it over the 

".'At the' time of se.ving. and ""t before etir 
bghay to separate the grains, but do this oft the 

"macakoni a L'lTAL.FXNF.-Cut into email, thin 
pie :« two pounds of .re.h. lean V-^ fee -ma 
onion, chop and then poon.l in a mor.ar quarter ot 
apo .dofla.baeou; frv the bacon and onion to- 
ge'th. then add the beef --^ ^"^ ^'^'^ '\ZT^,^, 
When the beef becomes slightly colored turn the 
vlude contents of the frying-pan '"t" a bo" sauce^ 
pan. Add a pint of boiling water, boil up for one 
minute, skim thoroughly, and sprinkle u. a sal t- 
s^,onlulofsalt and a little pepper, then simn r 
gently for two hours, skimming oecasonallN 
Itrainthis gravy through a hair sieve, and wh n 
cold take ofl- Ihe fat. When re.arty to use make he 
gravy hot and mix with the fourth part of it .» 
Ubl spoonful of tcmato sauce; then add by decrees 
tne re t of the gravy, stir over a slo«. clear hre and 
LoU.hree minutes. Put in boding -;-.-'- ^ 
„alf pound of Naples macaroni ; bo.l 1 'hU twe. y 
to twenyfive minutes, drain in a colander, wh .h 
bake before the tire a minute or two to n.al>e the 
macaroni perfectly dry. Put the macaroni on a hot 



Fraclical Coolcery. 



29 



dish, mixing tlirouch it tv o or three tablespoontuls 
of grated Parniesnii cheese, pour tne hot gravy over 
it, mixjnir well; and serve Willi a dish of prated 
Parrarsan. This is an excellent dish with which to 
beijin dinner ou days loo not for smokina s no. 
The proportions may of course be varied to suit the 
number of persons served. 

Pickled Grapes. — Take ripe crapes; remove 
imperfect and broken ones. Line .nn earthen jar 
with (rrape leaves ; then fill with grapes. To two 
(inarts of vinegar allow one pint of white sugar, 
half an ounce of gronnd ciunamon, and a quarter 
of an (junce of cloves. Let the vinegar and spices 
boil for five minutes ; then add the 
sugar. Lit it come to a boil and 
when cold pour over the grapes. If poured on while 
hot it shrivels tlieiii, even if it does not break the 
skin and spoil the appearance of the pickles, 

Vfai. C'urLRTS A LA MiLANAiSf!. — Trim some 
veal cutlets info a uniform shape, and dip them in 
Hquetied butter — that is. bulter melted on the 
runge. Then pass them through a mixture of 
eqnal parts of bread crumbs and 
grated Parmesan cheese, properly peppered and 
Baited. When set dip them in a b"aten-iip egg and 
pa<3 them through the mixture asain, then fry tlem 
brown. Boil a small quantity of macaroni, dress it 
with butter. Parmesan clieeso and tomato sauce 
with the yolk of an egg stirred into it. Place the 
macaroni on a dish and Ihe cutlets in a circle round 
it. 

Maitre D'Hotfl Sauce.— Melt a conpb' of onnces 
of butter in a sancepan. mix thoroughly with it two 
t.ab'.cspoonfuls ot flour, add half a pintof ho water, 
white pipper and salt to taste, and stir until it 
thickens: it too thick add more hot. water. Mince 
very finely a handful of parsley, knead it with half 
nn ounce of butter, add this to the sauce with the 
jnice of half a lemon, stir It well on the fire and 
serve. 

To Can Pfaches.— Cling stones are best. Pare, 
halve, and stone them. Boil the stones or pits until 
all the flavor is extracted; then pour oft the water 
from the pits, and when it is at the boiling-point, 
throw into it enough peaches to fill three or four 
cans; sprinkle over suuar to taste, or about as 
much as would be sprinkled over fresh peaches for 
the table. When just scalded, can them, placing 
round pieces of writing paper dippedin brandy over 
the tops of the peaches before putting on the 
covers. 

TiMBALE DE SPAGHETTI.— Break some spaghetti 
into very short lengths and boil it thoronghly. 
Drain it before the fire and add to it plenty of fresh 
butter or a cup of strong, rich gravy ; then mix 
with it one or two beaten eggs, according to quan- 
tity. When the macaroni is nearly cold, fill with it 
ft plain mould which b;id been previously buttered 
and sprinkled with fine bread crumbs. Press the 
macaroni well down, leaving a hollow in the centre, 
in this place a well flavored mince of lamb, poultry, 
or eame; fill op the mold with more macaroni, 



pressing it down compactly. Bake in a moderately 
quiet oven, turn nut and serve very hot. 

KiPE Cucumber Pickli s. — Pare and seed ripe 
encumbers. Slico each cucumber lengthwise into 
four pieci s, or cut it into fancy shupes as pre- 
ferred. Lei them stand twenty-four hours covered 
with cold vinegar. Drain them ; then put them 
into Iresh viueeai, with two pounds of sugar and. 
one ounce i.f ca.?8ia buds to one quart of vinegar. 
Boil all together twenty minutes. Cover them 
closely in a j ir. 

Minute Pudding.— One qnnrt of milk, salt, two 
eggs, about a pint of flour. Be.it the eggs well ; add 
tne flour and enough milk to make it smooth. But- 
ter the saucepiin, aun put in the remainder of the 
milk well salted : when it boils stir in the flour, 
eggs, etc., lightly, let it cook well. It should be of 
the consistency of thick corn mush. Serve imme- 
diately with the following simple sauce, viz.: Milk 
sweetened to taste aud flavored with grated nut- 
meg. 

Calve's Brains.— Soak thebrains in water till all 
the blood is aemoved, dry them lu a clean cloth aud 
then fry in barter or oil. Garnish with parsley and 
erve. Or. after soaking them, boil them in milk 
fnr twenty minutes, then drain them from the milk 
and put them in vinegar for three or four honr.s. 

Spinach a la Creme.— Pick over and wash the 
spinacli, and cut the leaves from the stalks. Boil 
in hot water, a little salted, about twenty minutes 
Drain, put luto a wooden tray or upon a board: 
chiip very fine, and rub through a colander. Put 
into a saucepan; stir until it begins to smoke 
throughout. Add two tablespooufuls of butter for 
a Bood-sizei dish, a teaspootiiul of white sugar, 
three tablespoonfuls of milk, salt and pepper to 
taste. Beat, as it heats, with a silver tork or wire 
spo(ni. Flavor with a little nutmeg. Cook this 
until it begins to bubble up as you be.at it. Poor 
into a deep dish, surround with sliced egg, aud 
serve. 

CucuJiBER Toast.— Peel fresh crisp cucumbers of 
medium siz.>; cnt lengthwise into slices, place in 
cold water lor a few minutes ; drain, and dip each 
slice into flour ; then try quicklv, until of alight 
brown color, in butter or beef dripiiings. PLice the 
slice of buttered cucumber hot from the pan be- 
tween slices of buttered toast aud serve at ones. 
The cucumbers may be seasoned with pepper and 
sa,lt, and a little mustard may be added when taken 
from the pan. 

Indian Fritters.— Put three tablespoonfnls of 
flour into a basin, aud pour over it sufficient boiling 
water to inike it into a stiff paste, taking care to 
stir and beat it well, to prevent its getting lumpy. 
Leave it a little time to cool, and then break into it 
—without beating them first— the yolks of four eges 
and the whites of two, and stir and beat all well 
together. Have ready some boiling lard or clarified 
dripping. Drop a dessertspoonful of batter in at a 
time, and fry the fritters of a light brown. '1 hey 
ought to rise so much as to be almast like balls. 



so 



Tribune Extra Ko. 80. 



Servo tliPin on a liot disli, wiili a spoonful of jam or 
luiiniialaiie dropped iu between each Intter. 

Cni;nnY PrDtuxG.— Two otrss, one ciipfnl of 
eweoti milk, three teaspoonfula of yeast powder. 
Hour to niako a stift' hatter, as many cherrres or 
fruit of any kind as can l)e stirred in. Uoil or steam 
it tivo hours. Serve with fruit sauco of the same 
kind of fruit of winch the pudding is made. 

IUkkd Ukrry noLl.s.—Koll biscuit dough \bin, 
in the form of a large sciuare or into small squares, 
8pread over with berries. lioU the crust, and put 
the rolls into a drippintr-pan close logethcr until 
Jull ; then put into the pan water, sugar and pieces 
of butter, liako them. Serve with any of the pud- 
ding sauces, 

Ran.\que lifxs.— One pound of butter, one and 
a quarter pounds of sugar, two pounds of flour, 
sis esgs, four tablespoonfiils of ground cinnamon. 
Mix the cinnamon with the flour ; rub the butter to 
a cream, then mis the flour with it. Boat the sugar 
with the eggs, then altogether .as little as possible. 
Distribute this by the spoonful into roiigh-lciokiug 
cakes on buttered tins placed at a little distance 
apart. This is a very nice lunch-cake. 

Cl'CUMnF.R A L\ CKi:MB.—I'ecl and cut into slices 
(lengthwise) some fine cuonnibers. Boil them uutil 
soft, salt to taste, and serve with, delicate cream 
sauce. 

SoiTP CF STUfN-G-BEAKS.— Make a strong stock as 
follows : Add to a knuckle of veal three quarts of 
water, a generous slice of salt. pork, and two or 
three slices of onion. Let it simmer for Uve h(mr8, 
then pour it through a sieve or colander into a jar. 
It is better to make this stock the day before it is 
served, as then every particle of fat may be Pa*ily 
fcraped ott the ielly. Ten minutes before dinner 
put into a saucepan two ounces of butter, and 
when it bnbldes sprinkle in four ounces ot thmr ; let 
it cook without taking color ; then add a cupful of 
hot cream, a pint of the heated stock, and about a 
luntof green string-beau pulp, i.e., string-beans 
boiled tender with a little pork, then pressed 
through a colander and freed from juice. After 
mixinij all together, do not let the soup boil, or it 
will curdle and spoil. Stir it constantly while it is 
on the fire. Just before it is sent to table, sprinkle 
over the top a baudlul of little fried fritter beans. 
Thev are made by dropping drops of fritter batter 
into boiling lard. Thejr will rescmblo navy-boans, 
and give a very pler.sant flavor and appearance to 
the soup. If this pretty addition be considered too 
much trouble, Jittio dice of fried bread may be 
added instead. The soup should be rather thick 
and served quite hot. 

Fricasdsau of Vf.al.— AVhat is called a frican- 
deau of veal is simply a cushion of veal trimmed 
into shape, larded and braised. Cut a thick slice 
(\lirc8 or four pcmnds) from a fillet of veal, tnm it, 
and lard it on top. Put some pieces of pork into a 
braising-ketile, or saucepan if you hav:> 110 brais- 
ing-kettle ; also slices of carrot, an onion wiih 
cKves stuck iu, a stick of ccbry. and some parsley. 



Put in the meat, sprinkle over reppcr and salt, and 
cover It with well-buttered paper. Now (ill the pan 
with boiling stock, or water enough to just cover 
the meat. Put on a light lid. It it is a braisiug- 
pan, set It upon the tire, with live coals on top. I( 
a coinaion saucepan, cover it, and put it into a hot 
oven. It will take about two hyurs, or two hours 
and a hall, to cook it. 

Tapioca Ceeam.— Soak a teacnpful of tapioca 
overnight iu milk. The iie.'it day stir inio it the 
yolks of three eggs well beaten, and a cupful ot 
pugar. Place a quart of milk on the lire; let it como 
to the boiling point, and then stir in the tapioca, 
and let the whole ci>ok antil it has thickened: then 
take it ofl the lire and stir iu the whites of tiie eggs 
beaten to a froth. Flavor to taste. A small portion 
of the beaten whites of the eggs can be saved to 
decorate the top. Stir into the latter a little sugar, 
put it into a paperfuiinel, press it out over the too 
of the pudding according to fancy, and place it in 
the oven a few moments to color. 

E.NGLisn Pound-Cake.— One pound of butter 
beaten to a cream; one pound of ponnded sugar; 
ten eggs (whites and yolks beaten separatelv) ; one 
pound of dried flour ; eight ounces of almonds ; eight 
ounces of candied peel; two wineglasses of brandy. 
When all arc will beaten together, add three pounds 
of English currants and one pound of raisins, both 
dredged in flour. Set it immediately iu a moderate 
oven, and bake three hours at least, 

Cei:am OF KiCE Soup.- Two qnartsof chicken 
stock (the water in which fowls have been boiled 
will answer); one teacupful ot rice; a quart of 
cream or milk: a small onion; a etalk of celery; 
salt and pepper to taste. Wash rice carefully, and 
add to chicken st»ck, onion and celery. Cook 
slowly two hours (it should hardly bulihle). Put 
through a sieve ; add seasoning and the milk or 
cream, which has beeu allowed to come just to i' 
boil. If milk, use also a tablespoouful ot butter. 

Stewei) Steak with Oysters.— Two pounds of 
ru'up steak, oue pint of oysters, one tablespoooful 
of lemon juice, three of butter, ore of flour, salt, 
pepper, one cupful of water. Wash the ovelers in 
the water and drain iuto a stewi)an. Put this 
liquor oil to heat. As soon ns it comes to a boil, 
skim and set back Put the butter in a fryingpan. 
and when hot, pot in a ste:ik. Cook ten minutes. 
Take up the steak, and stir the flour into the butter 
remaining ia tho pan. Stir until m dark brown. 
Add the ovster liquor and boil one minute. .Season 
with salt and (lepper. Put back tto steak, cover 
the pan, and simnierhalf an hour; then add the 
oysters and lemon juice. Boil one miuute. Servo 
on a hot dish with points ot toast for a garnish. 

Chicken CRoqUKTTE*.- One solid pint of liaely 
chopped cooked chicken; one tablespooulnl ot 
salt; halt a teaspaonfal of pepper; oue cupful of 
cream or cuiekcn stock ; oue tablespoouful of llou' ; 
four eggs; one teaspoonful ot union juice; one 
taldespoontul of lemon juice ; one pint of crumbs: 
three tablcspooululs of butter. Put the cream or 



Practical Coohcry. -r- 



31 



stock o\i to boii. Mix the flour and biilter to- 
pether, aud stir into the boiliug cieaiu ; then add 
the chicken and seasouing. Boil lor two minutes ; 
then adi t'oo of the eggs, well beaten. Take from 
the tire iiumediately and set awav to cool. NVhen 
cold, shape and fry. Many iieoplo thinli a teaspoon- 
ful of chopped paisley an improvement. 

Lemon Sponge.— The iuice of four lemons, four 
eggs, one cnpfol of sugiir, half a package of gela- 
tine, one yencrous pint of cold water. .Soak the 
gelatine two hours lu half a cupful of the water 
Squeeze the lemons, and siraiu the juice on the 
sugar. Beat the yolks of the eggs and mix tuem 
with the renainrter of the water. Ada the sugar 
and leaiou to this, and cook in the double boiler 
until it begins to thicken; then add the gelatine. 
Strain this mixture into a tin basin, which place 
in a pan of ice water. Beat with the whisk occas- 
ionally, until it has cooled, but not hardened. Now 
add the unbeaten whites of the eggs, and beat all 
the time until the mixture begins to thicken. Let 
it thicken almost to the point where it cannot be 
poured, and then turn into a mould and set away 
to harden. Remember that the whites of the eggs 
must be added as soju as the mixture cools, which 
thoiild be in about si.^ or eight minutes, and that 
the mixture must be beaten until it begins to harden. 
1 he. hardening is rapid alter it once begins, so 
that it will be necessary to Live the moulds all 
ready. The sponge will not be .smooth and deli- 
cate if not poured into the moulds. If for anv rea- 
Eon .vo'\ abould get the mixture too bard before 
ponriug, place the basin in another of hot water, 
aud let the sponge melt a little; then beat it up 
agaiu. Serve with powdered sugar aud cream. 

Bisque.?.— Bisques may be made wiih shell-fish, 
such as lobsters, crabs, prawns, etc.; also of snipes 
or quails; rabbits, too, are used in this way. 
C'ycihs: Pick the v bite meat from the claws of a 
large boiled crab, aud lay it between two plates in 
a cool plane until re^uirod. Found the white meat 
as well as the Dulpv part found iu the shell, with 
about half the quantity of well-boiled rice— the 
rice must have been boiled in stock, not iu water- 
to this add a quart of good f.tock ; warm it, and 
ruD it through a tammy to set asid'i in a basin till 
■wanted. Just iiofore diani-n'-time set the purcSo in 
a stewpan on the lire to get hot, but on no account 
to boil, or iZ would curdle; keep stirring with a 
■wooden spoon. The meat from the claws should 
in the meantime have been shredded, warmed in a 
little stock, and put into the so.ip-tureea. Finish 
by adding to the soup a pint of boiling cream and a 
little cayeune pepper ; stir together, aud pour over 
the shredded meat and serve. Lobster: Take the 
piihy part, the coral, and tl e spawn from two 
Lon lobsters. Pound a small quantity of the cor.-.l 
and spawn in a mortar, with a piece of butter the 
size of a walnnt and an anchovy ; add a very little 
cayenne, rnb it through a sieve, and 'keep it in a 
cool pliice till wanted, as well as the rest of the 
coral, etc. Cut the meat into small pieces, aud fry 
it in a little butter, with a carrot anfl a head ol' 



celery, cut into veiy small pieces; add to this a 
s,)rig of thyme, a blade of mace, and a very liltlB 
pepper and salt; fry this foi about live minutes, 
taking care that it does not burn, and, it necessary, 
moistening it with a little white Rhenish wine, of 
which about a piut will be required. Add any uf 
the wine that may not have been used during the 
frjiog to the slewpan, into which the mixtur'j 
must now be transferred; let it boil quickly for 
twenty minutes, stirring it during the time. Then 
drain the lobster on a sieve, aud pound it thor- 
oughly in a mortar, putting it b.ack again into the 
stewpan with the spawn, coral, etc., which was 
reserved, and also with the liquor in which it was 
boiled ; add to it a pint aud a half of good white 
stock, then rub the pnr6e througu a tammy into a 
basin, and let it remain until wanted, A quarter 
of an hour before serviug. put it into a stewpan on 
the fire, stirring it all the time, aud being very 
careful nut to let it boil, or it might cnrdlo. Stir 
in a small piece of light-colored glaze, and season 
it with a very little cayenne and the juice of half a 
lemon ; tho lobster hotter made from the coral 
must also now be added. Hi»v9 in the tureen two 
or three dozen I ails of prawns :iud about tliC s.ame 
number of fuiall quenelles or balls mace of whiting; 
pour the PUI15B over them, aud the bisque is then 
ready for tivble. 

Cheese Soup. — One .and a half cupfuls of flour, 
onepintof rich cream, fourtable.spoonfulsof butter, 
four of grated Paimesan cheese, a siteck : ■ cayenne, 
two eggs, three quarts of clear soup stock. Mis 
flour, cream, butter, cheese and pepper together. 
Place tho basin in another of hot w.ater and stir 
until the mixture becomes a smooth, firm paste. 
Break into it tho two eggs and mix quickly and 
thoroughly. Cook two minutes longer and set 
away to cool. Wliencold, roll into little balls al)0ut 
the size of an American walnut. When tho balls 
are all formed, drop them into boiling water and 
cook gently five minutes ; then put them into tho 
soup tureen and pour the boiling stock on them. 
Pass a plate of finely grated Parmesan cheese with 
the soup. 

Broiled Lobstti:.— Split the meat of the tail and 
claws, and season well with salt and pepper. 
Cover with soft butter and dredge with flonr. 
Place iu the broiler, aud cook over a bright live 
until a delicate brown. Arrange on a hot dish, 
pour Bechamel sauce around, and serve. 

Potted Pigeons.— Clean and w.ash one dozen 
pigeons. Stand thera on their necks in a deep 
earthen or porcelain pot, and turn on them a pint of 
vinegar. Cut tliree large onions in twelve pieces, 
and place a piece on each pigeon. Cover the pot 
and let it stand all night. In the morning take out tho 
pigeons and throw away the onions and vinegai'. Fry, 
in a deep stewpan, six slices of fat pork, and when 
brown, take them up, and in the fat put six onions 
sliced fine. On these put the pigeons, h.aving first 
trussed them, and dredge well with salt, pepper 
and flour. Cover, and cook slowly for forty-five 
minutes, stirring occasionally; then add two auarta 



32 



tribune Extra No. 85. 



of iKiilinpr water and Bimincr (loiitly two hours. Mix 
four lioapinti tabiOspoonfulB of flour with a cupful 
of cold water, and stir iu with tlio pijioons. Tasto 
to sec if tliero is enough seasoning, and if lliere is 
not, adil more. Cook half an hour longer. Servo 
with a Kiirnish of rice or riood potatoes. More or 
joss onion ciii he used ; and if you like it so, spico 
the gravy slightly. 

Bri'AKI'ast Vi-ai,.— Butter a small oval dish very 
thorouRhly, and (ill with hits of cold stewed veal 
soasouod with pepper, salt and a littlo nutnies; put 
iu alternately with layers of ciaeUer crumbs, 
luoisten with pravy, put bitsof butter over the top, 
and bake. AVhen it is brown turn out of the dish 
on a hot platter, and garnish with parsley. If it is 
not too moist it will keep its form w lieu it is turned 
out. 

CiliCKKX ri'ltEf:.— Pick into small bits cold roast 
or broiled chicken, and season it with salt and 
pepper. Boil the bones and skin in enough water 
to cover tlicni, strain aud return to the fire. When 
it boils stir in tor one cupful of the stock one small 
tcaspoonful of butter. Add a little celery salt and 
etir iu the meat. Servo with triangles of bread 
which have Lieeu fj ied crisp iu very hot lard. 

Ohaxge PrDPiN'O.— One pint of milk; the juice 
of six oranges and the riiid of three; eight eggs; 
lialf a cuiiful of butter; one largo cupful of granu- 
lated sugar: a quarter of a cupful of powdered 
sugar; one tablespoouful of gi-ound rice; paste to 
liin' the pudding disli. Mix the ground rice with a 
little of the cold milk. I'ut the remainder of the 
milk iu the double boiler, and when it boils stir in 
the mixed rice. Stir for live minutes; then add the 
bolter, aud set away to cool. Beat together the 
sugar, the yolks of eight eggs and whites of four, 
(irate the rind and squeeze tiie juice of the oranges 
into this. Stir all into the cooked mixture. Have 
a pudding dish holding about three quarts lined 
with paste. Pour the preparation into this, and 
bake in a moderate oven for forty minutes. Beat 
the ri'inaining four whites of the eggs to a still' 
froth, and gradually beat in the powdered sugar. 
Cover the pudding with this. IJeturn to tne oven 
and cook ten minutes, leaving the door open. Set 
away to cool. It must be ice cold when served. 

Plain' Spont.e Cakk. — Beat the yolks of four 
eggs together with two cups of granulated sugar. 
Stir in gradually one cup of sifted (lour and the 
whites of four eggs beaten to a still' froth, then a 
cup of sifted flour in which two te.aspoonfuls of 
baking-powder has been stirred, and lastly, a 
scant teacup of boiling water stirred in a little at a 
time. Flavor, add salt, and however thin the 
jnixturo may seem, do not add any more tlour. 
Bake in shallow tius. 

CilicKKS CHEAM {Crcine dc ro/ai/Z'-.l— Pound the 
•white llesh of .a fowl into a pulp, pass it through a 
horsehair seive. put it back into the mortar, and 
•work into it the yolks of three or four eggs and a 
gill of cream: flavor with pepper, salt, aud giatcd 
nutmeg, aud, if liked, a suspicion of shallot. >Vhvu 



the mixture is perfectly aiualganiat«d, Imtlir a 
plain mould, arrange thin slices of trutlles at the 
bottom and sides of it by pressing then on the but- 
ter, then put in the mixture, which shouhl only half 
till the mould. Tie a piece of paper on the top, 
place the mould into a saucepan half tilled with 
hot water, aud steam it for an hour and a half. 
.Serve with tnifllc sauce. TruUles may bo omitted 
altogether, and the dish served with tomato sauce. 

Tapioca Crk am Sotrp.— One quart of ■whi tc stock : 
one pint of cream or milk; one onion; two stalks of 
ceh'iy ; one-third of a cupful of tapioca; two cni>- 
fuls of cold water ; one tablespoouful of butlcir; a 
small piece of mace ; salt, pepper. Wash tlio tapi- 
oca aud soak over night in colil water. Cook it and 
the stock together very gent ly for one hour, (,'ut 
the onion and celery into small pieces, and put on 
to cook for twenty minutes -Nvitli the milk ami 
mace. Strain on the tai>ioca and slock. SeubOU 
with salt and pepper, add butter, and serve. 

Rissoi.i'.s or CniCKF.x.— Mince very finely some 
remnants of chicken freed from skin, etc. ; aild an 
equal quantity of h.im or tongue and a liltlo 
choi)ped parsley. Heat in a saucepan ■with a gooil- 
sized piece of butter mixed with a large i>iuch 
of flour; add white pepper, salt and nutmeg to 
taste; moisten with a littlo stock or hot water; 
then stir in, ofl' the (ire, one or two yolks of eggs 
beaten up, with a squeeze of lemon, and lay the 
mixture on a plate to get cool. Make a paste with 
some flour, a little water, two eggs, a niuch of salt, 
and two or three of sug.ir; roll it out to the thick- 
ness of a penny piice, stamp it out iu round jiieci'S 
three inches in <liametcr: put a piece of the above 
mince on each, then fold it up. fasten the edges by 
moistening them with water, and trim them neatly 
with a fluted cutter. Dip each ris.sole in a beaten- 
up egg, aud fry a nice color iu hot lard ; serve with 
fried parsley. 

Fi.sii IX 'W^iiiTK Satce.— Flake up cold boiled 
halibut and set the plate into the steamer, that the 
fish may heat without drying. Boil the bones and 
skin of the fish with a slice of onion aud a rcry 
small piece of red pepper; a bit of this the size of 
a kernel of coflee will make the sauce quite as hot 
as most persons like it. Boil this stock down to 
half a pint ; thiikeu with one teaspoonful of buttel 
aud one tcaspoonful of floni', mixed together. Add 
one drop of extract of almond. Pour this .sauce 
over your halibut and stick bits of parsley 
over it. 

Br.EF Croqufttes.— One cnp of lean beef; half s 
cup of the fat; half a cup of cold boiled or fried ham; 
a piece of onion as large as a silver dollar; one 
te.ispoonfulof salt; half a teaspoonful of pepper; 
a pinch of sage, and a little grated lemon-peel. 
Chop all as fine aspossiblc.orput through a mincing 
machine. Heat, with half a cup of stock orcold soup, 
and add one egg well beaten j form into croquettes; 
roll iu egg and bread crumbs, and fry in boiling 
lard. ■-'— 



Superior Pure Thread Knitting Silk. 




OUT JVO. 1. 



CUT NO. 



To make Jiandsotne articles in Knitting and CrocJiet, the best of silk must 
be used. Belding Bros. & Co. sell the best silk at prices as low as otliers 
charge for that which is inferior. It is not generally known that there are 
tivo kinds of knitting-silk in the market ; one made from pure thread silk, the 
other from spun silk. The difference is very great. 

Thread silk is made by unwinding cocoons, from each of which a single 
continuous thread or fibre of great length is obtained. Several cf the con- 
tinuous cocoon-threads being combined, are doubled and twisted a number of 
times until the finished thread is formed of the required thickness 
No other material has such a long fibre ; consequently, silk thread, 
made, is stronger and more elastic than any other thread. Spun silk is made 
from pierced or imperfect cocoons whose fibres are broken, ^ ^ee^cdt^no. a^"'"^' 
and from other short pieces of silli fibre linown as " waste," none of which 
can be reeled ; they are carded and spun like flax or cotton. Articles knit 
in spun silk soon acquire a dingy, dull, rough appearance, and will not wear, 



As SHOWN IN 

Cut No. 1. 

thus 



while thread silk is smooth, 
will last for years with ordin 
with blue ink on the end thus 
from pxire thread silk Jentical 
manufacture of their well-knotvn 
The best is always the cheapest. 



strong, and very lustrous, and 
ary use. Knitting-silk stamped 
of each spool is warranted made 
with that used by them in the 
machinC'twist and sewing-silk. 

SPUN SILK IS DEAR AT ANY PRICE 

Send two-cent stamp for our Self-Instructor in Silk Knitting, Crocheting 
and Embroidci'y. 




BELDING BROS. & CO., 

455 BROADWAY, NEW-YOllK. 



ESTES & LAURIAT'S NEW AND POPULAR BOOKS. 

Miss I'arloa's iNow Cook JJook and Marketiiie: Guide. 

One of the licnt and most ponalar Cook Books over Issncd. It ia eelUng at tlic rate ot O.uOO copies per month. With k 
colored froutlBpleco iin<1 iiiaiiy Ulustratlonj*. _., ,. 

1 VOL, ISmo, clolh, blink and pold, *} K 

iTol, 12mo, kitilieu rdltlou. witb waterproof clotb, plain stamped, . • • , 1 &u 

THE CELEBRATED ZICZAC BOOKS. 

Orcr Ono lliiiKlrrd 'I'laouMuntI Vi>luni<-» Mold. 

Ziszas Jonriioys in Northern Lands. 

From the Bhinc to the Antic Clrilo. ITie ZlK7ai.- club in OemionT, Denninrk, Norway and Sweden, with anthentlcplctnr- 
esqiic views, ronmnlic Im Iclcnts. anil rntPrtamlni; Btorlrs. By llczeklaU Uuttcrworth, ambor o( " Young Folks' Htntory ot 
AnHTlca," etc. \\'itlnivir 1(10 (irlt'inal unti tine lUuslnitlona. 

1 vol., email quuno, llluniiuated boaiils, ............ $1 75 

Cloth, .................. 2 25 

The Knoekahont Club in the Tropics. 

ny C A. Stpphcns, nntlmroJ " Tlic YnunK M<"ise llniitcrs." etc. In which the "Knncknbont clnh" l.fl transported from 
the Ice fields of the North I<i the plains of Nrw.Mexli n. tluiice Ihrongh the "Lund of the A/tecs," and the wonderful nilns of 
Central America, to "The Queen of the Antilles," An Instructive and entcrtalnlns Journey, wltn nearly 26U tllostratlons 
from original deslcns- , ,, , 

1 vol., small quarto, illuminated boards covers ana UnmBB. ........ $1 50 

Cloth, bcvcUed and gUt, 2 00 

The Boys of '01 ; 

OR, FOUK YEARS OF FIOHTINO. A record of personal observation with the Armr and Navy, from the battle of 
Bnll Run to the fall of Richmond. By Charles curleton Collin, author of "The Boya or 76," 'Oor New Way •Rotmd the 
World." "The Story of Liberty," Vflnulng His Way," "Old Times in the Colonies." "Following the Flap," etc. With 
namerons lUustrallons. 

1 vol., Svo, cloth. gilt» . , $2 50 

Three Vassar Girls in Ensjland. 

Sunny memories ot a hoUdav excursion of three eoUeee irirls In the mother conntiy. vdth visit* to historic sceneo and 
notable plixes. Rv Lizzie W. Clmmpney. author of " Three Vassar Girls Abro«il." With nearly 150 Ulnstratlons by J. WcUa 
Chaninney and other dlstlncnilsheil artists, 

1 vol., small (inarto, iUumlnntcd hoard covers and Unlnpi, ..,....,, $1 50 

Cloth, bevelled and gtlt, 2 00 

The Boys of the sierras ; 

OR THE YOUNO OOLD HUNTERS. An exciting st«ry of the advcntnres of three vonn? men who Roto OJIfomla In 
•49 In search of gold, givInK an interostlns account of their life among tlie minors. Edited by Walter Montgomery, imily 
Illustrated «tth oiiglnal designs, made expressly tor this book. 

1 voL, small iiuaito, lUuiniuatcd boaril covers and linings, ......... $1 26 

Youns Folks' History of the Queens of En2;Iand. 

From the Norman Conqiiest. Founded on Strickland's Qaeens of England. Abridged, adapted and contlnaetl to the 
present time. By Rosalie KauJmiui. With ne.irly 3i)0 Illustrations. 

3 vols., 16mo, cloth, $4 50 

Youns Folks' History of the Civil War. 

A concise and Impartial acconnt ot the late war, for young people, from the best autborlttes both North and Sonth. Bv 
Mrs. C Emma Cheney. Illustrated with 100 engravings, maps and plana. 

1 voL. 16mo, cloth, »! 50 

GIFT BOOKS. 

Gray's TAosj in a Country Churchyard. 

Xllnstraf ed from original di'slgns by Blrket Foster, W. L. Sheppard, W. L. Taylor and Francis Miller. 

1 vol., small quarto, cloth, full gilt, tl 50 

FiiU morocco, antique, or mil tree marbled calf, gilt edges, ... •.-.... 6 00 

lUamlnated and Fringed Covers, 1 75 

Sonss and Scenes from Faust. 

" Selections from Ooethe's masterpiece. Translated by Bayard Taylor. Illnstrateil by A. Llezen Majrer and Ad. Lalanze. 

1 vol.. small quarto, cloth, lull gilt, ,,■,.■, ^ »1 5ri 

Full morocco, antique, or full tre« marbled calf, gilt edges, ....,.,.. 5 On 

Illuminated and Fringed Covers I 75 

The Kime of the Ancient Mariner. 

Bv Samnel Taylor Coleridge. Illustrated by Guatave Dor6, W. I* Taylor and others. 

1 "vol., small quarto, cloth, ^lll gilt, »1 .'iO 

Full morocco, antique, or full tree marbled calf, gilt edges. . . ........ .I Oi) 

Illtimluated and I"lluge<l Covers, ............. l;i 



The Heart of Europe. 



FROM TTTE RTIINE TO TIIK DANUBE. Comprlatnir a series of the most rcmarkohle views of plcturcaqnoIanrtAcapo* 
and historic bulhllnga throughout this romartlc region, reprtMlace*! In lino wood-cut^ l>v the beet artists. Nearlj 100 larc** 
illustrations. Descriptive t<xt by Len de ColanKC. i.L D., and quotations from Euroiiean and American poot«. 

1 voL, large quarto, cloth bevelled and fall gilt, $3 75 

Mountain, Lake and River. 

A series of 25 steelllne engravings from designs bv W.TI. linrtlctt and others. The descilptlTa text by N. P. Wlllto and 
01 1 ei«. including Illustrative poems by American and English authors 

1 VOL, large qnarto, clolh, tievelled and full gilt. $3 7''' 

For i«ale 1>y nil booksellers, or lient postpaid on receipt ot price by the 

|. Ul>lisll<TS, 

ESTES & LAURIAT, Boston, Mass. 



TRY IT ONCE, AND YOU WILL MYES OSE ASYTMG BDT 

BELDIN6 BROS. & CO/S 

"KEIili;W' EMBROIDERY. 



U 



MADE FROM 



AND 



WOUND ON PATEN T CARDS. 

" KENSINGTON " EMBROIDERY NEVER TANGLES, 



ONLY THE SILK AC- 
TUALLY USED IN THE 
WORK IS TAKEN OFF, 
THE REST OF THE 
SILK REMAINS NEAT- 
LY WOUND ON THE 
CARD. 



^BEl.DINGBROS.aCO.SUPERIORJ ^^^ WORKERS IN 



■KENSINSTON"EMBROIDERY SILK.^ 

> £ |t-DiNBBps:ac o:suPERidR ^ EMBROIDERY APPRE- 
■mmGBROsaccLSUPEBlQS) ciATE THE CONVENI- 



7KENS1NGT0N EMBROIDERY SILKJ 

.BELDING BROS dtO'SUPEPfSR > 



*KENS|NGTOM'EMBR0i[)E.-i'r SiLS^X 
,jiLblNGBPO!_SCO SL'PtR'LR'J 



^KENSINGTOK'ItMBROICERYsTuO 



ENCE OF THE PAT- 



ENT CARDS. 



Beldin&:'s ^Kensington' Embroiderv 

IN ALL COLORS, BOTH PLAIN AND SHADED, HAS NO EQUAL. 

For sale by all first-class houses throughout the United States and Canada. 

Send two-cent stamp for our Self Instructor in Silk Knitting, Crocheting, and 
Embroidery. 

BELDT'N'a'S SILK HOSIERY. 

M Duality, Fermeii! Lustre, MfM for Wear. PiHaranteeS Superior to any 

otler ID is coilry. 

Mills at Rockville, Conn., Northampton, Mass., Montreal, Can., San Francisco, Cal. 
SALESROOMS AND OFFICES AT 

455 BEOADWAY, New-York. 105 SUJIMER-ST., Boston. 136 RACE-ST., Cincmnati. 

6TH and ARCH STS., PliiladelpUia. 28-30 ST. GEORGE-ST., Montreal. 147-149 5TH-AVE,, Chicago 
£21 ST. CHARLKS-ST.. St. Louis. 585 MABKEX-SX., San Francisco. 





ON "WHITE spboija. 



IT IS THE BEST FOR HAND AND MACHINE SEWINU 



ALSO, 



C L J&. E^ I^ ' S 

BEST CROCHET COTTON, 



MADE FROM SEA ISLAND COTTON. 



G 



Tl 

H 
J 



Marshall's Spool Linen Thread. 

A. CUl, 






I 



SOUD EVEmrWTaiESEUSl 



THE CONTRAST 



BETWEEN 



Belding Bros. & Co.'s 



a 



SUPERIOR " 



PIE TiEi KNITTII SM 



AIVD THE 



KNITTING SILK lABE BY OTHER MAHUFACTimS. 



BELDrNG'S SILK costs a trifle more than eptm 
eilk, but it is really clicaper. Because tlie article 
made with it will last much longer, ana 
altrays looks brigUt. 



In maUng the article with BELDING'S SILK, all 
ItB part will have a xmif orm lustre. 

After months of handling and wear, the article 
made of BELMNffS SILK retains its freshness and 
brilliancy. 

Articles made of BELDING'S SILK wear well, 
last a long time, and Ueep tlieir beanty 
to tlie last. 



Spnn Silk, being made of waste material, ia 
dear at any price. 

The ari;icle made of spun silt will hare no 
Instre ; the paries that are most handled in mak- 
ing will soon lose their brightneaa. 

After a weeks' use the article made of spun silk 
looks dull and faded, as if made of cotton. 

Articles made of spnn silk, besides becoming 
shabby, -wear out -rery soon. 



The time employed in making the article is the same whether " spun" or Beldlng's Pure Thread Silk 
is n8ed,Tut the result is very different. HO «OX BE WECEITED. THE BEST IS 
A1.1VAYS THE CHEAPEST. 

Don't allow your shopkeeper to impose upon you by selling yon some other sOk and representing that 
It is " just as good as Beldlng's." ^v • o ,^ 

Send a two-cent stamp to BELDING BROS. & CO., 455 Broadway, and they will mail yon their SeU- 
Instructor on Knitting, Crocheting and Embroidery. 

Mills at Rockville, Conn., Northampton, Mass., Montreal, Can., San Francisco, Cat. 
SALESROOMS AIVD OFFICES AT 

455 BROADWAY, New-York. 105 SUMMER-ST., Boston. 136 RACE-ST,, Cincinnati. 

6Tn and ARCH STS., Philadelphia. 28-30 ST. GEORGE-ST., Montreal. 147-149 STH-AVE., Chicago 
621 ST. CHARLES-ST., St. Louis. 586 MARKET-ST., San Francisco. 



JAM|E!«S 




PeMinC 



PEARLINE 

MAKES WASHING EASY, 

And enables delicate women to do the mnch-dreadcd 
work with ease and economy, and have their mus- 
lins and linens made beautifully white and swekt 
without rubbins them to piecen ou the wash-board, 
and -tvitbout hoilinsi which is a great thing in 
hot weatho.t. It takes the place of soap, and for 

HOUSE-CLEANING, 

DISH-WASHING, CLEANrNG JEWELBY, SIL- 
VER, MARULE, MILK-CAKS, removing BLOOD. 
STAINS, GREASE-SPOTS, INK, etc, 
IX IS MAGICAL.. 

EF* Housekeepers are respectfully invited to 
make a through trial of its merits, and judge for 
themselves. 



IS THE BEST THING 

KVER INVENTKI) FOU 

WASHING and BLEACHING 

In Hard or Soft, Hot or Cold Water, without 
harm to Fabric or Hands. 

NaToslahor, time and eoap amazingly, and 
givoN uniT4-r»>al sali<«fa.ctioii. 

B*°Sold by Grocers everywliere; but boware of irrimitatiour;. 

Pearline is the only safe lobois-saving compound, and alwavs bfars the uame of 

JAMES PYI.K. NewVork. 

TRIBUNE P REMIUM S FOR 1884. 

Always the Best. This year more costly and varied than ever. 



LARGEST AKD BEST MAPS. I 

Band A- McNrIIt*8 Atlnfi of the World, 904 pa^es royal I 
quarto; lnuina in Hus.sia leather: l:i5 large maps; over 
'2.-2b colortMl lllustralions ; umH»r>n paRca (ieacrlptlcm ami 
etatiBtics. Host Atla-s piilillBln-d In Aiimrica, Uouill prioo 
$22 CO. Sold onlyas subHcnpIton hook, except as pnniiiiim 
for N. Y, TIunuNE. roiiipuieat book tor reference aa to 
Kio^^rriphy of even' eoantry of the world. 

For S'Z'i -lO— The Aifas and DAri-Y Tribunk ) year. 

Foi $'25— Atlas iind 10 copies \Vki-:ki.y 1 year ; or, 2 copies 
WKKKi.Y for T) years eaeli ; or, Daily. Ha years. 

For S!;i4— A Mafl and 'JO Wkf.ki.iks 1 year ; or, 2 Skmi-Wekk- 
MRS, f) yearH (^aeh ; or. 2 eonies Daily for 1 \ years. 

For S4:t— Atlas and SO copies Wkkkly 1 year. 

For $6!i 50— Alias and 50 copies Wkkkly 1 year. 

For Stl'-'5— Ali.is and 125 cnj)leB Wkkkly 1 year. 
Fsprcflfl cliarfiefl paid by sutiecrlbor. If to be sent Xty mail, 

remit $1 24 for jiostJige. For most points express Is cheaper. 

THE SINGLE SUBSCRIBER'S CHANCE. 

Bldpaib'fl lIlHiory of the Fnlied Sintes. from the first 
fletlleinents to the iiHsaMBlnation of (iarlield. By JOUN 
CLAKK KIDPATII. A. M.. LL. D., of Asbury University. 
Jliustratexl with nnninroua maps, charts and portraits. 
LarKo 8vo, TxO^u Inches, 753 pages. Printed by Uie Meth- 
odist Itook Concern. Retail price, Sli. 

For S3,— Rldpath'fl History and Wkkkly Tr.lBUNB one year. 

For S4.— Uistory and bLMi-WbEKLY one year. Poslaigc free. 

UNAHRIPGED DICTIONARY. 

Webster's or Worcester's Pictorial Dnabrldpcd Quarto 
Dlotlonnrr— latest and Ix^Kt edition of either. 

3^12, for Diction:iry and Wekkly TKiiiUNf: for 5 years; 

^17. for Dictionary and 8emi-Weekly Tribune for 5 
years ; 

ft:lH, for Dictionary and Datt,y Trircne 1 year. 

i'ustagei $1. E2prc«a oXteu cheaper. 

AddxcGS simply, 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE. 

"Wooden Houfiehold Pi'actice of medicine. Hyffionennd 
Surgery'* ; a practical treatise for families, travellers, soa- 

men, miners, and othei-s ; written by the lea^ling physic- 
ians of New-York City and I'luladelphla ; edited ny" Dr. 
Fredorlclt A. Castle, of New-York: in two Tolumes. im- 
perial octavo. HID and *J42 pp. ; promsoly Illustrated with 
enpravhigs ; priee in rnushu, JIO • not sold in bookstores, 
and only to be procured of nnlilisner'ti authorized ageuts, 
eicept iliix)ugh this oltlor of The TitiBl'NK. No other news- 
paper can or will be able to otierlt. Thousands sentunt 
already, and not one complaint receive<l. A practical book, 
for every -4lay use, which wlU pay for itself In a few months. 

■p tf>i ft i Wood's Household Practice and WEEKLlf 

■^"'^®*"lTHliiu.NK. for 5 years to one subscriber. 

i Household Practice and Semi-Weeklt 

ForS15<Tiaiti'NK 5 years to one subscriber; orlOcoDies 
(Weekly one year. 

*p..ooi^( Hon<4ehold Practice and 20 copies Weeklt 

'"'^ 5*^^ I one year. 
Postage, $1 10. Kxpresa generaUy cheaper. 

FOR PIANO-PLAYERS. 

"TheHonntnnof Bpethoven,**foIlo,S03papes, with pilled jfea^ 
elogantlv bound lu embossed cloth, ftetall price, $4 50. 
Finely prlnteil from enRiav.d plates. Contains thirty, 
elglit'sonataft, knuwii to luiisiciuiis as one ot the finest col- 
lections of valuable and not toodlitlcult music In existence. 
Every teacher would wish a pnpll to hare them. They 
constitute a deligblful collection, lull of sweetness ana 
Tariety. 

For SI 50.— Sonatas of Beethoven and Weekly Triblt(e one 
year. 

For !S5 ."JO.— Sonatfcs and Semi- Weekly one year. 

lor >iS 50.— Sonatas and Wi;pki.y for live vears. 

For ^i;i .50.— Sonatas and si:mi-\Vklkly for live years. 

Postage 60 cents, l-lxpress oft*-u cheaper. 

XUE XBlUt ."NIJ, I\ew-YorIc 



NEW-YORK TRIBUNE PUBLICATIONS. 



SPECIAL ISSUES. 



I. THE TRIBUNE ALMANAC FOR 1884. 

Price ;iO centfl. Five copies for a Dollar. 

Edited by Edward McPherson. 

T^e TKIBUNE ALMANAC for 1S84 contains the most 

carefnlly prepared and trustworthy fibres and tables of 

retnrria of the lat« State Elections, and ol other Important 

elections, which returns, it is well known, are always consnlted 
with marked interest in political campaicns, and will bees- 
pecially dnrin? the Presidential Flection of this year. The 
TTcIBUNE ALMANAC l3 admlttedlv the Standfird Book of 
Reference.— withnui a rival.— In matters of this nature, and 
"wili consequently be inquired tor and sought after extensively 
by politicians, writers, and voters generally throughout the 
country. The Almanac also contains twenty pages, this year, 
of the highest Interest and value relating to THE NEW 
TAPvIFF. iTi parallel columns are given the present rate of 
».1nty, the former rate, and the one recommended by the TarifT 
Commission: the value of each kind of goods import*"-d. and 
the dnty collected. The Almanac gives in simple forin the 
substance of elaborate tables and a long and verbose law. In 
view of the continued agitation of the tariff, the Alioanac will 
bein great deiiiand the coming year. The Almanac also con- 
tains a wide variety of condensed information about Oovem- 
mental affairs, the public laws, ete. 



11. THE TRIBUNE INDEX. 

A complete Key to the World's History during 1SS3, with a 
Table of Topical Heads. Price, 50 cents. The TRIBUNE 
INDEX for 1S7.% 1876, 1377, 1878. 1879,1880,1831,1882, 
and 1883. Price, 60 cents each. 



PUBLICATIONS FOR SALE. 

The followlns works are offereil for sale toTBiBtnnt readers 

at the prices namert : 

Yonng's Bible Concordance, 1,100 paees, 4to, cloth 
hindln?, by mail, postage prepaid $2 00 

"Recollections of a Busy Tjife," by Horace Greeley; 
6"4 pares, sheep covers, postage prepaid 3 00 

"What I Know of Farming," by Horaco Greeley, 
?35 pages, cloth covers, postage prepaid. 1 60 

"TheL)')ra)y of Universal Knowledge"; 15 vols, of 
900 pages each, cloth; per set (special binding, ex- 
tra) 12 00 

"The New-York Trihnne;" aSietchof Its History; 
illustrated; 24 pages, paper cover, 10 

Representative American Journalists; 13 beads o( 

managers of leading papers, 22x28 inches.- 50 

Portrait of General Garfield; engraved, 22x23 inches.. 10 

Portraltof Mrs. Oa'^eld; a companion of the above.. 10 



TRIBUNE EXTRAS. 

No. 44.— The Cipher TUspatches. The Florida, South 
Carolina and Oregon secret telegrams, with the keys that 
translate llieni. In folded sheet f onn, cents. In pamphlet 
form, 40 pages, large type, '25 cents. 

No. 4G.— The Prophetic Conference. Verbatiiii reports of 
theilifferent addresses and papers. Octavo, I'M pages. 25 
cents. 

No. 59.— Woman's Extra. Practical directions for Fancy 
Work, Patterns, Knitting and Crochet. 10 cents. 

No. G2.— Knitting and Crochet. 48 pages. 20 cents 

No. 64.- Sunday Dinners. A Mapual of Home Cookery. 
In pamphlet foiTn. 25 rents. 

No 7ti. —Stocking Kmttuig. A Manual of llonsehold Tmlus. 
try. Pamphletform. Price, lo cents. 

No. 7?.— The New-York Tnbuue. Jr. Stories for Those 
Least Little People. A handsome little book of 5(j pages, 
with colored borders Price, 10 cents. 

No. M2.— New Patterns In Knitting and Crochet. With 
illustrations. Pamphlet, 72 pages. Price, 25 cents. 

No. S3.— Astronomy Six lectures by Prof. Yonng. Sheet 
form. Price, lo cents. 

• 

TRIBUNE NOVELS. 

The chearcnt and best series of fiction. 

Every Novfl la complete and nnabridsred ; would cost from 
seven to t-en rimes as much as The lYibiine Novel. Price, 10 
cents each, unless otherwise noted. .Sent, post-paitl, .m re- 
ceipt of tbo iirlce. 

I. LORDS AND LADIES. Published by arrangement 
with A. K. Loring, Boston. 

•4, THE WOOING O'T. By Mrs. Alexander. Double 
Nnraber, price, 20 cents. 

•6. FAR FROM TTiE M ADDING CROWD. By Thomas 
Hardy. Double Number, price, 20 cents. 

0. GOOD LUCK. By E. Werner. Translated from the 
German for THE TBIBUXE. 

17. ALICE LORRAINE. By R. D. Blaokmore. Double 
Number, price, 20 cents. 

tS. THE CURATE IN CHARGE. Bv Mrs. Ollphant. 

9. OLYMPIA. A Romance. By R. E. Francillon. 

10. BLACK SPIRITS AND WHITE. By Frances Eleanor 
Trollope. 

II. TWO LILLIES. By Julia Kav.magh. 

12A CHARMING FELLOW. By Frances Eleanor Trollope. 

13. DRIFTED BY THE SEA. By Henry Whitney Cleve- 
land. 

14. CHERRY RIPE. By Helen B. Mather, antlior of 
"Comln' Thro' the Rye." 

1«. THREE WIVES. By the author of Lords and Ladies. 
86 pages, price 20 cents. 

20. DISMISSED. A Novel. By William Osbom stofidard. 

21. THE SHADOW OP A .SIN. A fascinating short 
Story of love and adventure. 

22. THE REBEL OP THE FAMILY. A novel of absorb- 
ing interest. 

23. LEFT IN TRUST. A Novel. The Story Of 3 Lady 
and Her Lov«r; 32 pages, Weekly I'ribune size. Price 10 
cents. 

24. LIESCHEN, A Tale of an Old Castle. Translated for 
TheTribu.ve. Price 10 cents. 

25. DOROTHY. A Story of Waiting. Price 10 cents. 

50. PROPER PRIDE. A Story of Life In India and "in 
England. "Thebest novel in twelve years." Price 10 cCKts. 

* Published by arrangement with Henry Kelt * Co., whose 
Leisure Hours Series inclutles authorized editions of all Mr. 
Hardv'fi and Mrs. Alexander's works. 

t Published bv airangeraent with Harper Brothers, whoso 
Library of Select Novels includes authorized editions of Mr. 
P.lackmf-re'sand Mrs. Oiiphant's works- 



THE TRIBTJIt^E, 



NEW-YORK. 



THE LEADING PAPER. 
HEARTILY REPUBLICAN IN POLITICS. 



Devoted to American Manufacturing and Farming and American Uomes. 



THE STANDARD AUTHORITY. 



TTIE TRIItlJIVK -vrlll be sent, postag-e paid, to mail babscribcrs In all 
parts of the United States at following reduced rate.s: 

1 Tear. 6 Months 3 Months. 1 Month. 

I>AII..'V, with Snnday $8 50 $4 25 $2 15 $0 75 

I>AIL,V, without Snnday 7 00 3 50 1 75 75 

SUi^DAY tribune: 1 50 

SE:m-\Y'KEKL.Y, $3 SO a year; in olnba of ten, 83 a year, frith extra copy 
to man sending; dab. 

1VEEKL.V, 91 35 a year; In clubs of ten, 8l a year, Trlth extra copy to 
man sending; club. 

Connting postage, abont two cents a copy on all editions. The most, m quantity and value, for the 
least money, of any paper in America. 

THE TRII1UI\E this year is cheaper than ever, and better than ever. It has not 
reduced character with price. A trusted, clean, wholesome family paper, it has long enjoyed the l.iriiest 
circulation among the best people — the indnstrions, frnsal and moral, whom every community recognizes 
as its best citizens— and it means to keep and increase tlus circulation by continuing to deserve it. 

Tllli: XRIBUIVE Is the leading; I%e-w-TorU paper— complete in news, strong and 
eonnd in comment, pure in tone, large and legible in print — spending money lavishly for news, and as 
lavishly tor brains to handle it. It is recognized as the authoritv on political, business, bank, railroad, 
and financial, literary, educational, scientific, social and religious intelliEcnce. 

THE TRIBUIVE Is heartily Republican, and believes that the restoration of the 
Pemocratic party to power, after twenty-fonr years' exile, would be as disastrous as a revolution. Every 
important material interest in the country dreads such a change in 1884. TIIE TEIBITNE confidently 
believe it can be prevented, and to that end asks your aid- 

THE TRIBU.'\E is always on the side of morality, g-ood order, reform and 

f»rosrcss. It warmly sympathizes with every practical effort to restrict the traftic in intoxicating 
iquors. It always favors trie cause of honest labor; and in the interest of the American Workingman 
supports a Protective Tariff. It has no interest for or against corporations, to hinder its taking 
the just and fair course, best for all the people and the whole country. It is the organ of no person or 
faction, is under no control save that of its Editor, and knows no obligation save that to the pnoUc. 

THE WEEKLY TRIBUNE has been for a third of a century the f arorite of our snbstan* 

tial rural population. It has a larger and wider circulation than any other weekly issued from 
the o Si CO of a daily in the United States. A complete weekly newspaper ol sixteen, aiid sometimes 
twenty or twenty-four pages, its agricultural matter is believed by f.armers to be the best published. It 
contains full markets aud many features of interest in the home circle. This year two series of special 
articles will be printed, one for young men, the other for farmers. 

THE SEMI-WEEKLY TRIBUNE la the best substitnt<^ for the Daily. It has all the matter of the 
latter of more than transient interest, and all the special features of the Weekly. Sixteen to twenty 
pages. 

THE TRIBUNE will be Indispensable dnrine the Presidential canvass. 

The following books are offered as premiums with the WEEKLY and SEMI-WEEKLY: "The 
Indexed Atlas of the World," 904 pages. 125 maps and charts, 225 colored diagrams, and (;.">0 pages of 
description; "Wood's Household »'ractioe of Mediciue," 2 vols., 810 and 042 page.i, illu.stiated— a 
valuable work: Ridpath's entertaining illustrated " History of the United StJites," 752 pages; "The 
Sonatas of Beethoven ;" Webster's and Worcester's Unabridged Dictionaries, latest editions. 

THE TRIBUNE makes an offer for the formation of Town Libraries. Send for oircolar. 

AGENTS WANTED AT EVERY POST-OFFICE. 

Cironlars describing follj all TUCBUNE premiums, aud samcle copies, sent free on application. 



ESTABLISHED REPUTATION 



BELDII^a BROTHERS & CO/S 

SEWING SILKS 

AND 

MACHINE TWIST 

4RE AHEAD OF ALL COMPETITORS. 

Have been awarded the Highest Premiums at all Industrial Exhibitions. 
The following are noteworthy among the namerous Testimonials won by 

BELDING'S SILKS. 

PRIZE MEDALS OF MERIT ^T 

CINCINNATI INDUSTRIAL EXPOSITIONS, 1870 AND 1872. 
ST. LOUIS INDUSTRIAL EXPOSITIONS, 1872, 1874, 1875. 
BALTIMORE, MARYLAND INSTITUTE, 1874. 
PHILADELPHIA, 1874, AND CENTENNIAL, 1876. 

The only GOLD MEDAIiS ever awarded for goods of this class 
were to Belding Bros. & Co., at 

SYDNEY, N. S. W., 1878. 

ATLANTA. GA., EXPOSITION, 1881, 

SAN FRANCISCO, MECHANICS' INSTITUTE, 1883. 

SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA STATE FAIR, 1883. 

Mactte Twist, SeiDg Sis, "Snuerior" Pure TteaJ Knltttnf Si, 

"KENSINGTON" EMBROIDERY, 

FILLING SILKS, STITCHINa SILKS, ETC. 

> For Sale hy all First-class Houses. 

Mill8 at Rockville, Conn., Northampton, Mass., Montreal, Can., San Francisco, Cal. 
SALESROOMS A]ST> OFFICES AT 

455 BROADWAY, New-York. 105 SUMMLR-ST., Boston. 136 RACE-ST., Cinciimati. 

6TH and ARCH STS., Philadelphia. 28-30 ST. GEORGE-ST., Montreal. 147-149 5TH-AVE., Chicago 
621 ST. CHARLES-ST., St. Louis. 585 MARKET-ST., San Francisco. 

Send two-cent stamp for our Self Instructor in Silk Knitting, Crocheting, and 
Embroidery. 



Healil M Yipr for tie Braia M Imm Systea 

Physicians have prescribed over 750,000 Packages of 

VITALIZED PHOS-PHITES, 

And have found this BRAIN AND NEB VE FOOD indispensable in tht 
treatment of diseases of Debility aiid in all Nervous Disorders. 

Physicians prescribe it l:ecaiise they knon^ its composition : it is 
not a secret remedy : the lormuia is printed on every label. 

It restores the energy lost by nervousness, weakness or indigestion ; it 
relieves lassitude and neuralgia; retreshes the nerves tired by worry, excitement or 
excessive sensitiveness; strengthens a failing memory, and gives renewed vigor where 
there has been nervous exhaustion or debility. 

It aids wonderfully in the mental and bodily growth of infants and children. Under 
its use the tetth come easier, the bones grow better, the skin plumper and smoother; 
the brain acquires more readily, and rests and sleeps more sweetly. An ill-fed brain 
learns no lessons, and is excusable if peevish. It gives a happier and better childhood. 

" No CoUece Student, whether young gentleman or lady, no anxious, diligent echool-pirl, 
can accomplish what the brain aspires to without the iissistance of this liram Food. With its 
aid study is easy and memory retentive."— W. E. Sheldon, National Journal of Education, 

" No rapidly-growing infant or child can develop into intellectual or physical beauty with- 
out a sulHciency of Phos-phites."— Prof. Percy. 

It is indispensable (o Nnrsing Mothers and to Growing Babes 
and Children. Is a Tonic to the Brain, and Builds Up Worn-out INerves. It 
lures Sleeplessness and Neuralgia. 

" I can cordially recommend to this class of people— writers, teachers, preachers, thinkers— 
Dr. F. Crosby's Y italized Fhos-T:>h.ites-because I have tned them myself Be- 
fore 1 covdd conscientiously sav anything about them 1 said to Dr. Crosby : I am sullermg 
from overwork of the nerves ; it the compound is fitted for any one's case, it is for mine.' 

" 1 have taken it, and feel that it has done mo a decided benefit. I know 1 sufl'er from over- 
employment of the brain on mv three papers ; 1 know 1 waste awav my nerve material. This 
compound is fitted to re-supply this waste— that is the reason it is useful. 

" ft is especially useful in Indigestion, Debility, Sleeplessness, etc. I myself already feel the 
beneficial effects 1 have derived. „ 

"A. M. Kellogg, 
"Editor of N. T. l<chool Journal, Scholat^s Companion, etc., etc., 21 Park Plaxie." 

ALL COMMEND VITALIZED PHOS-PHITES WHO USE IT. 

Dover, N. H., Feb. 19, 1880. 
"F Crosby: I have had eighteen years' experience as a retail apothecary, and know of 
beter results from your Vitalized J^lioS'-Dliites than from any other medicme I ever 
sold. Please send me a gross immediat<'ly. vV Ji. 11. Vickeet." 

IT IS THE BEST PROMOTER OF DIGESTION. 

150 PoiNT-ST., Providence, R. I., May G, 1879. 
" F. Crosby— Dear Sir : I have used and prescribed in my pi-acrice several dozen Vital- 
ized Plios-TJliites. and find it a good medicine in most cases of Nervous Disturbance. 
It is mtening to some patients, becauee it materially aicb the digestion and assimilation of food, 

" Yours respectfully, C. W. Filmore, M. D." 

F. CROSBY CO., 

664 and 666 SIXTH ATIii^iUE, ."% EtF-TORK, 

For sale by DniffsIatN ; or by mail In P. O. oriler, bill or postage atampa, 91r 
Alter Slar t, 1884, S6 U'est UStb-aU 



