LIBRARY 0£ CONGRESS. 

ShelflillA 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



THE MODEL 



COOK BOOK, 



CONTAINING OVER 



THOROUGHLY TESTED RECIPES 



Founded Upon the Principles of Economy, and 
Adapted to the Use of Private Families, 



BY 

y 

,r,/./MRS. FRANCES WILLEY. 



^'1 




TROY, N. Y.: 

E. H. LISK, PUBLISHER AND PRINTER, 312 RIVER STREE' 

1884. 






l^ 



COPYRIGHT, d884, 

BY 

Edward H. Lisk. 



Electrotyped 

BY 

Troy Electrotype Co. 



PREFACE. 



There is scarcely a woman who does not feel, at 
times, the need of advice as to the best manner of 
performing the various duties of housekeeping. 
Young wives, when first entering upon their duties, 
are frequently made to keenly feel their ignorance of 
the many customs to which all are expected to 
conform, and allowance is scarcely ever made for 
inexperience. Perhaps in no other branch of house- 
keeping is criticism oftener heard than that of cook- 
ery and table etiquette, and to those who are " in the 
dark," so to speak, this book — containing, as it does, 
over eleven hundred well-tried recipes, bills of fare, 
etc. — will prove very acceptable. 

The universal cry has been, " We can do nothing 
with cook books ; the receipts are so expensive." 
To this stereotyped phrase, our reply is, that it has 
been the endeavor of the author to combine, in this 
work, economy with excellence; and with this end in 
view that the book might be prepared in the best 
manner and free from the impress of one woman's 
ideas, the recipes have been selected with great care 
from English, French, German and American authors 
whose opportunities have rendered them well-fitted 
to treat the subjects on which they have written. In 



4 PREFACE. 

this way we are enabled to furnish the ladies of 
America with the most complete work on home and 
foreign cookery ever yet produced. 

It has been the earnest aim of the compiler to give 
such a variety of recipes that the housewife of lim- 
ited means, as well as she of greater "financial re- 
sources, may be able to select a suitable repast and to 
properly serve it. Believing there is a genuine need 
of such a book, we offer it to the public, trusting it 
may meet with cordial approbation. 



INDEX TO SUBJECTS, 



Bread and Biscuits 163 

Breakfast and Tea Cakes 171 

Bills of Fare 381 

Cake ^ 190 

Confectionery 326 

Canned Fruits 298 

Dishes for Dessert 267 

Drinks 313 

Eggs r 115 

Fish 29 

Jellies 298 

Meats 49 

Miscellaneous 353 

Miscellaneous Observations to Housekeepers 7 

Pickles 145 

Pies, Pastry and Meat 220 

Plants, Pertaining- to j^ 340 

Poultry and Game 79 

Puddings 240 

Rare bits, Cheese, Cakes, Etc 123 

Sauces and Dressings for Meats and Fish 95 

Sauces for Puddings 263 

Salads 107 

Shell-fish 41 

Sick Room, for the 333 

Soups 15 

Table Etiquette 11 

Vegetable 125 

Yeast 161 



Miscellaneous Observations to Housekeepers. 



-*=©=«- 



In every rank, they deserve the most praise who 
best acquit themselves of the duties which their sta- 
tion requires of them. Indeed if we would maintain 
our characters as rational beings, this line of conduct 
is not a matter of choice, but of necessity. 

In the variety of female accomplishments, domestic 
arts do not stand so high in esteem as they formerly 
did ; yet when neglected they produce much human 
misery. There was a time when ladies knew little 
beyond their own family ideas of cookery, but in this 
age of advancement progress should be made, and a 
universal knowledge obtained of the proper conduct 
of the household. The experience of others should 
be brought into requisition, and to this end this vol- 
ume will prove invaluable. 

Instances may be found of women in the highest 
walks of life, who examine the accounts of their 
house stewards, and, by overlooking and wisely direct- 
ing the expenditures of their husband's income, save 
much financial embarrassment. How necessary, then, 
is domestic knowledge to those whose limited incomes 
compel them to consider even the slightest expense. 
The management of the table is no inconsiderable 
part of a woman's education; it involves judgment 
in outlay, respectability of appearance, the comfort of 



8 OliSERVATlONS TO HOUSEKEEPERS. 

her family and those who partake of her hospitality. 
There are few incidents in which the honest pride of 
a man is more immediately felt than in the style of 
the dinner to which he may bring a friend. If but 
two or three dishes are well served with the usual 
sauces, the liable linen clean, the table neatly laid, and 
all that is necessary at hand, the husband and friend 
are gratified because no irregularity of domestic ar- 
rangement will disturb the social intercourse. The 
same observations hold good on a larger scale. In 
all situations of life the entertainment should be no 
less suited to the station than to the fortunes of the 
entertainer. The mistress of a family should always 
remember that the welfare and good management of 
the house depend upon the eye of the superior. If a 
woman has not been accustomed, while single, to the 
management of a family, let her not, on that account, 
fear she cannot attain to it; she may study a good 
book on cookery, and consult with others who are 
more experienced than herself. Many families owe 
their prosperity full as much to the expediency of fe- 
male management as to the knowledge and activity of 
the head of the family. 

Ready money (cash) should be paid for all things, 
if possible; the best places should be selected for pur- 
chasing, that is, reliable dealers upon whose word 
you can depend; a common-place book should be 
kept at hand in which to enter such hints as sensible, 
experienced women give of useful knowledge. Want 
of attention to what is advised, or supposing things to 
be too minute to be worth remembering, is the main 
cause why so much ignorance prevails on such im- 
portant subjects. 

If economy of time was duly considered, early 
breakfasts had and regular hours kept, there would be 
more time to execute the duties of the day, and far 



OBSERVATIONS TO HOUSEKEEPERS. 9 

more pleasure in their performance. "A place for 
everything and everything in its place," is a rule that 
must be observed in every well-regulated household. 
A part of every person's fortune should be devoted 
to charity, by which a pious woman builds up her 
house before God, while she that lends nothing to 
the Lord destroys it with her own hands. There are 
many ways by which the poor may be relieved and 
comforted, the expense of which would not be felt, 
i. o give promiscuous relief cannot be attempted. A 
person's conduct should harmonize with his circum- 
stances. To do the best we can, and be of the great- 
est good possible to God and our fellov\^-men, is all 
that is required of us. Let us endeavor to excel. 



TABLE ETIQUETTE. 



-XSf^- 



Manners are made for the convenience of man. 
Ail social observances are founded upon good reason 
and common sense. It may seem to us that society 
has adopted a great many useless customs, but, gen- 
erally speaking, it is not so. The distinction between 
the gentleman and the boor is more clearly noted at 
the table than anywhere else. Nothing reflects more 
upon home training than bad manners here. If, then, 
we would merit the title of lady or gentleman, it is 
necessary that we be able, naturally and easily, to 
show our good breeding by gentility at the table. 
Here, especially, it may be said, good manners cannot 
be assumed for an occasion. Children must be taught 
by parents, both by precept and example, to be atten- 
tive and' polite to each other at every meal — to observe 
proper rules of etiquette regularly. If they are so 
taught, there is no danger that they will appear rude, 
awkward or unmannerly when they are entertaining, 
(jr are entertained as guests. This every day encour- 
agement of the observances of simple and sensible 
table manners promotes the comfort and cultivation 
of the family, and takes the embarrassment out of 
important occasions. The hour of dining should be 
made an hour of solid pleasure and comfort; the 



12 TABLE ETIQUETTE. 

dining room, the table, and all the appurtenances be- 
longing thereto, should be as cheerful as possible. 
The room should be comfortable, bright and cosy, 
and at the table the mistress should wear her brightest 
smile. If you have trials do not bring them to the table; 
brooding over them impairs digestion and sends hus- 
band and children to business and to school gloomy 
and morose instead of strengthened and refreshed. 
Taste will add beauty to the plainest room; neatness 
and skill will give a relish to the plainest fare — little 
attentions to the decorations or pretty arrangement 
of the table will tempt the appetite, charm the eye 
and make the home table powerfully attractive. It 
is not our purpose here to Avrite special rules of 
etiquette to be observed at great dinners and recep- 
tions, but rather to speak of common rules of table 
manners whicli are to be observed constantly in the 
family, both at home and abroad. 

GENERAL RULES ON TABLE ETIQUETTE. 

When you are at the table do not show restlessness; 
do not play with the table utensils or crumble your 
bread; do not put your elbows on the table, nor sit 
too far back in your chair, nor lounge; do not talk 
loud or boisterously; be cheerful in conduct and con- 
versation; never, if possible, cough or sneeze while at 
the table; do not bend the head down to the plate, as 
the food should go to the mouth and not the mou-th 
to the food; never tilt back your chair at the table or 
elsewhere; do not talk when the mouth is full; never 
make a noise while eating; keep the lips closed, as 
it is not necessary to show persons how you mas- 
ticate your food; never indicate that you notice 
anything unpleasant in the fare; chew your victuals 
well, but quietly, and slowly. Break your bread when 



TABLE ETIQUETTE. 13 

not buttered; do not bite it. Never leave tlie table in 
advance of the rest of the family or guests without 
asking to be excused. Eat soup from the side of the 
spoon, and without noise. The fork is used to con- 
vey food to the mouth, except when a spoon is neces- 
sary, as is the case with sauces, puddings and liquids. 
Raw oysters are eaten with a fork. If you wish to be 
served with tea or coffee a second time place your 
spoon in your saucer. Tea or coffee should not be 
poured into the saucer, but sipped from the cup. If 
a dish is passed to you, help yourself and then pass it 
on. Avoid all gross heaping up of plates. At a large 
dinner party it is better to confine your conversa- 
tion to your immediate neighbor. There is one 
good rule which, if followed, will make you accepta- 
ble everywhere. " Be not obtrusive ; do everything 
smoothly and quietly ; talk in a low tone of voice ; 
handle your knife, fork and dishes without clatter, 
and eat without smacking of the lips." 

Observe the following rules regarding the dressing 
of the table : It is a good plan to cover the table 
with baize or cotton flannel to prevent noise. Place 
the knife on the right hand, the fork on the left and a 
napkin on each plate ; water glasses to the right ; 
finger glasses should be half full — a slice of lemon or 
a geranium leaf is pretty in them. The soup, salad 
.and dessert should be placed before the hostess, and 
all other dishes before the host. Soup should be 
put on the table first ; if wine is served it should 
follow the soup. For ordinary dinners the following 
bill of fare is sufficient : One kind of soup, one kind 
of fish, two entrees, a roast, a boil, game, cheese, des- 
serts, ices, coffee. The hostess is the first to rise from 
the table. 

We cannot do better, in closing this chapter, than 



14 TABLE ETlgUETTE. 

to quote from an eminent authority in housekeeping 
etiquette : " Let no one suppose that, because she 
lives in a small house, and dines on plain fare, the 
general principles here laid down do not apply to 
her. Taste may be quite as well displayed on a pine 
table as in the grouping of silver and china on the 
table of the rich. The charm of housekeeping lies in 
the nice attention of little things, not in a supera- 
bundance." 



SOUPS. 



->^^- 



We would here give the housewife an idea in regard 
to spices and herbs for soups. In the early fall buy 
all the herbs you think sufficient for the coming 
year ; dry, pound, and sift them and keep in well 
corked bottles. Sage, thyme, bay leaves, marjoram, 
rosemary, sweet basil, parsley, and, when you are 
using lemons, where the rind is not required, as in 
lemonade, grate, dry, and bottle it in the same way. 
You will find all of the above very desirable in 
soups. Use very little of each, as the flavor should 
be quite delicate. The excellence of French cook- 
ing is the combination of flavors, all so delicate 
that none predominates. All kinds of spices should 
be kept on hand, though not in large quantities — 
say one-quarter of a pound each, and kept in tightly 
covered tin boxes. 

Coloring for Soups and Gravies. 

Put four ounces of lump sugar, a gill of water, and 
half an ounce of the finest butter into a small tosser, 
and set it over a gentle fire. Stir it with a wooden 
spoon until it becomes a bright brown. Then add 
half a pint of water; boil, skim, and, when cold, bot- 
tle and cork it tight. Add to soup or gravy as much 
of this as -will give a proper color. 



16 SOUPS. 

A Clear Brown vStock for Gravy-Soup or Gravy. 
Put a knuckle of veal, a pound of lean beef, and a 
pound of the lean of a gammon of bacon, all sliced, 
into a stew-pan Avith two or three scraped carrots, two 
onions, two turnips, two heads of celery sliced, and 
two quarts of water. Stew the meat quite tender, but 
do not let it brow^n. When thus prepared it will 
serve either for soup, or brow^n or white gravy. If 
for brown gravy put in some of the above coloring, 
and boil a few minutes. 

Tomato Soup. 
Put on a piece of beef, mutton or lamb, to boil; 
skim off all the fat before seasoning, then add two 
sliced onions, a little pepper and salt, two cloves, and 
about a dozen tomatoes; boil three hours, then add a 
little thickening of flour. If the tomatoes are very 
sour, add a tablespoonful of sugar. 

Portable Soup. 
Boil one or two knuckles of veal, one or tw^o shins 
of beef, and three. pounds of beef in as much water as 
will cover them. Take the marrow out of the bones; 
put in any kind of spice you like and three large 
onions. When the meat has cooked to pieces strain 
it off, and put it in a very cold place. When cold 
take off the cake of fat, put the soup in a double bot- 
tomed tin sauce pan, and set it on a pretty quick fire, 
but do not let it burn. It must boil fast and uncov- 
ered, and be stirred constantly for eight hours. Put 
it into a pan, and let it stand in a cold place a day; 
then pour it into a round soup china-dish, and set the 
dish into a stew-pan of boiling water on a stove, and 
let it boil, and be now and then stirred, till the soup 
is thick and ropy, then it is done enough. Pour it 
into the little round part at the bottom of cups or 
basins turned upside down, to form cakes; and when 



SOUPS. 17 

cold turn them out on flannel to dry. Keep them in 
tin canisters. When they are to be used, melt them 
in boiling water; and if you wish the flavor of herbs, 
or any thing else, boil it first, strain off the water, and 
melt the soup in it. This is very convenient in the 
country where fresli meat is not always at hand; as 
by this means a basin of soup may be made in fifteen 
minutes. 

Noodles Soup — German. 

Make a good beef soup. When almost done take 
two eggs and beat well; when light, work in as much 
flour as they will absorb, and then roll out as thin as 
a wafer; dust over with flour; make in a roll, cut in 
thin strips and shape out. A teaspoonful of salt 
should be put into the flour. Boil in the soup ten 
minutes. 

English Mock Turtle Soup. 

Take a calf's head, cut it in half, clean it well and 
then boil it until half done; cut all the meat off in 
small square pieces, break the bones of the head and 
put back in the kettle. Fry some shallot in butter, 
and dredge in flour; when it is nicely browned put it 
into the kettle and let it boil gently for one hour; 
skim well. About ten minutes before serving, season 
with basil, tarragon, parsley, cayenne pepper, and 
salt to your taste; also two tablespoonfuls of mush- 
room catsup and one pint of Madeira wine. This 
will make four quarts of splendid soup. . 

English White Soup. 

Three pounds of knuckle of veal, two slices of salt 
pork; cover with cold water and boil gently until 
it falls off the bones. Take out the bones and pork; 
blanch a quarter of a pound of almonds in a mortar 



18 SOUPS. 

with a tablespoonful of water to prevent oiling; add 
to this a pint of cream and stir into the soup; add one 
cupful of vermicelli that has been soaked in milk one 
hour Season with white pepper, salt and a little 
grated lemon peel. This will make five quarts of 
excellent soup. 

A Plain White Soup. 

One pound of knuckle of veal, covered with cold 
water and boiled gently until the meat falls from the 
bones; take out the bones, season witli white pepper 
and salt to taste; add one quart of sweet milk, a little 
butter, and some cooked rice. This will make four 
quarts of good soup. 

Partridge Soup. 

Skin two old birds and cut them into pieces, with 
three or four slices of ham, a stick of celery, and three 
large onions sliced. Fry them all in butter till brown, 
and take care not to burn them. Then put them into a 
stew-pan with five pints of boiling water, a few 
pepper-corns, a shank or two of mutton, and a little 
salt. Stew it gently two hours; then strain it through 
a sieve, and put it again into a stew-pan with some 
stewed celery and fried bread; when it is near boiling, 
skim it, pour it into a tureen and serve it up hot. 

Grouse Soup 

Is made the same as Partridge soup, only using one 
onion, and adding Jamaica pepper and half a dozen 
cloves, but no celery. 

Macaroni Soup. 
Boil a pound of the best macaroni in a quart of 
good stock till quite tender; then take out half, and 
put it into another stew-pot. To the remainder add 



SOUPS. iv 

some more stock, and boil it till you can pulp all the 
macaroni through a fine sieve. Then add together 
that, the two liquors, a pint or more of cream boil- 
ing-hot, the macaroni that was first taken out, and 
half a pound of grated Parmesan cheese; make it hot, 
but do not let it boil. Serve it u ith the crust of a 
French roll cut into pieces the size of a shilling. 

English Gravy Soup. 

Take four pounds of shin of beef, break the bones, 
cover with cold water; add a bunch of sweet herbs, 
two onions fried a fine brown, two blades of mace, 
three cloves, ten allspice berries, and forty black pep- 
pers; stew until very rich; take two carrots, two 
turnips, one head of celery and simmer them together 
until tender, then add to the soup also one tablespoon- 
ful mushroom catsup. Strain and send to the table 
clear. Salt to taste. This will make six quarts of 
strong, clear soup. 

Tomato Soup. 

Boil one quart of ripe tomatoes in one quart of 
water ten minutes; then add one teaspoonful of salt, 
one teaspoonful of pepper, one teaspoonful of white 
sugar and a piece of butter the size of an Ggg; lastly 
add one quart of milk and let all simmer. 

Scotch Barley Broth. 

Set on the fire two ounces of pearl barley, with three 
pints of salt water; when it boils, skim it, and add 
what quantity of salt beef, or fresh brisket, you choose, 
and a marrow-bone, with a good quantity of leeks, 
cabbages, or savoys, and let it simmer four or five 
hours. Or you may use turnips, onions, and grated 
carrots. 



20 SOUPS. 

Scotch Mutton Broth. 
Soak a neck of mutton in water for an hour; cut 
off the scragg, and put it into a stew-pan with two 
quarts of water. As soon as it boils, skim it well, 
and then simmer it an hour and a half; then take the 
best end of the mutton, cut it into pieces (two bones 
in each), take some of the fat off, and put in as many as 
you think proper; skim the moment the fresh meat 
boils up, and every quarter of an hour afterwards. 
Have ready four or five carrots, the same number of 
turnips, and three onions, all cut, but not small; and 
put them in soon enough to get quite tender; add 
four large spoonfuls of Scotch barley, first wet with 
cold water. The meat should stew three hours. Salt 
to taste, and serve all together. Twenty minutes 
before serving, put in some chopped parsley and some 
salt. It is an excellent winter dish. 

Ox Tail Soup. 
Make the same as gravy soup taking two ox tails; 
they should be soaked over night in cold water with 
salt in it. It is a very nourishing dish. 

Dried Pea Soup with Salt Pork. 

Soak a quart of split peas over night in soft water, 
next morning w^ash them, put them in four quarts of 
water, with a teaspoonful of sugar, two carrots, two 
small onions, one stalk of celery — all cut in small 
pieces; let them boil three hours; boil a pound of salt 
pork in another pot for an hour, take off the skin, and 
put the pork in the soup, and then boil one hour 
longer. 

French Vegetable Soup. 

Take a leg of lamb of moderate size, and four 
quarts of water; of potatoes, carrots, cabbage, toma- 



SOUPS. 21 

toes and turnips -take a teacupful of each, chopped 
fine; salt and black pepper at the rate of one small 
teaspoonful of salt to each quart of water and one- 
sixth as much pepper; wash the lamb and put it into 
the four quarts of cold water; when the scum rises, 
take it off carefully with a skimmer; after having 
pared and chopped the vegetables, put them into the 
soup. Carrots require the most boiling and shotdd 
be put in first. The soup requires about three hours 
to boil. 

Green-Pea Soup. 

Wash a small quarter of lamb in cold water, and 
put it into a soup-pot with six quarts of cold water; 
add to it two tablespoonfuls of salt, and set it over a 
moderate fire; let it boil gently for two hours, then 
skim it clear; add a quart of shelled peas, and a tea- 
spoonful of pepper; cover it, and let it boil for half 
an hour; then, having scraped the skins from a quart 
of small young potatoes, add them to the soup, cover 
the pot, and let it boil for half an hour longer ; work 
a quarter of a pound of butter and a dessert-spoonful 
of flour together, and add them to the soup ten or 
twelve minutes before taking it off the fire. Serve 
the meat on a dish with parsley, sauce- over, and the 
soup in a tureen. 

Ham or Pea Soup. 

The bone of the ham may be used when the meat 
has been removed from it before cooking, or it will 
do equally well if it has been already boiled in the 
ham (if in the former case, cleanse it thoroughly from 
all particles of mould). Put it over the fire in three 
quarts of cold water, with one pint of split peas which 
have been previously soaked in cold water for three 
hours. Cook very slowlv for seven hours, and then 



22 SOUPS. 

strain the broth, rubbing the peas through the colan- 
der. Season to taste, and pour over small squares of 
dry toast. 

Split-Pea Soup. 

Put a quart of split peas in water to cover them at 
night, with half a teaspoonful of saleratus; next day 
take them from the water in which they were soaked, 
and put to them two quarts of water and a pound of 
salt pork, with a bone of beef; let it boil gently until 
the peas are tender, then add five or six potatoes, and 
pepper to taste; cover it for fifteen minutes, then add 
a tablespoonful of butter and flour each, worked 
together; cover it until the potatoes are done, which 
will be about fifteen minutes. Serve in a tureen. 



Common Soup. 

Take shank or neck of beef or meat of fowls; cut 
fine; crack the bones; put in a pot and stew slowly 
several hours, until all the meats are cooked to shreds. 
Pour on a little boiling water and keep boiling till 
nearly ready to serve. Skim off all grease. Add 
vegetables, potatoes, carrots, barley or rice as you 
may prefer — the vegetables having been previously 
cooked by themselves — and then add a little butter to 
Cfive it richness. 

Beef Soup. 

One pound of lean beef, cut very fine, and one pint 
of cold water. Heat slightly for two or three hours, 
till it comes to boiling point. Then boil briskly two 
or three ' minutes, and strain through a coarse bit of 
cloth. Season with salt and pepper. Add roast 
onions or burnt sugar to color brown if desired. 



SOUPS. 23 

Chicken Broth. 
Cut the chicken into very small pieces and put in a 
jar filled with water, adding a little salt. Cover tight 
and let it simmer all day on stove or range. Strain 
and season to taste. 

Mock Stewed Oysters. 
One bunch oyster plant, eight teaspoonfuls butter, 
a little flour or corn starch, vinegar and water for 
boiling, pepper and salt, one-half cup of milk. 
Wash and scrape the oyster plant very carefully; 
drop into weak vinegar and water, bring quickly to a 
boil, and cook ten minutes; turn off the vinegar 
water, and rinse the salsify in boiling water; throw this 
out, and cover with more from the tea kettle; stew 
gently ten minutes longer; add pepper and salt and 
two tablespoonfuls of butter; stew in this until tender. 
Meanwhile beat, in a farina kettle, the milk; thicken, 
add the remaining butter, and keep dry until the 
salsify is done, then transfer it to this sauce; pepper 
and salt; let all lie together in the inner kettle, the 
water in the outer at a slow boil, for five minutes; 
pour into a covered dish. 

Bean Soup. 
Wash and boil your beans with a piece of salt pork. 
When the beans are soft take them out, and press 
through a colander; then put them back in the water 
they were boiled in, together with four hard boiled 
eggs quartered, and a half a lemon sliced, a little pep- 
per if you like it. Boil up and serve. 

Soup, a la Sap. 
Boil half a pound of grated raw potatoes, a pound 
of beef sliced thin, a pint of gray peas, an onion, 



24 SOUPS. 

and three ounces of rice, in six pints of water; 
strain it through a colander; then pulp the peas to it, 
,and turn it into a sauce-pan again with two heads of 
celery, sliced. Stew it tender, and add pepper and 
salt; when you serve add fried bread. 

Eel Soup. 

Take three pounds of small eels; put to them two 
quarts of water, a crust of bread, three blades of 
mace, some whole pepper, an onion, and a bunch of 
sweet herbs; cover them close, and stew until the fish 
is quite broken; then strain it off. Toast sorne bread, 
cut it into dice, and pour the soup on it boiling. A 
piece of carrot may be put in at first. This soup 
will be as rich as if made of meat. 

American Lobster Soup. 

After having boiled a lobster, take it from the 
shell; roll two or three crackers, and put them to the 
meat, which must be cut small; put of milk and water 
each a quart into a stewpan, with a tablespoonful of salt 
and a teaspoonful of pepper; when it is boiling hot, 
add the lobster, cut small, and the green inside if 
liked, and a quarter of a pound of sweet butter; let 
it boil closely covered for half an hour; break a dozen 
butter-crackers, or six or seven soda-biscuits, into a 
tureen, pour the soup over, and serve. 

English Lobster Soup. 

Take the meat from six small lobsters; do not use 
the brown nor the green; chop the fins and the claws 
fine, and boil all gently in two quarts of water; add 
butter, nutmeg and a teaspoonful of flour mixed into 
a quart of cream. Force-meat balls niay be served in 
the soup if desired. 



SOUPS. 25 

Clam Soup. 

Put two quarts of water into your kettle with one 
quart of potatoes sliced very thin; put in pepper, salt 
and butter; set it over the fire to cook. Take a slice 
of salt pork and cut it into diamonds; take one onion, 
cut very fine, and fry with the pork until brown, then 
put it in the kettle; now add one quart of clams; lastly 
add one teacup of milk with a teaspoonful of flour 
stirred in it. Let it boil ten minutes. 

French Stewed O' sters. 

Wash fifty large oysters in their own liquor, strain 
the liquor into a stew pan, putting the oysters into a 
pan of cold water, season the liquor with a half pint 
of sherr)^ or madeira, the juice of two lemons, and a 
little mace. Boil this liquor, and skim and stir it 
well; when it comes to a boil, put in the oysters well 
drained; let them get heated through, but do not boil 
them. Many people consider this the nicest way of 
stewing oysters. 

Oyster Stew — No. 1. 

Make a paste of one tablespoonful of butter and 
two of flour, a teaspoonful of salt and a pinch of pep- 
per; put in a stew-pan on the fire one pint of milk 
and one of water; when this comes to a boil, put in 
two quarts of oysters and stir in the paste, a small 
lump at a time; stir frequently, so as to melt the 
paste. As soon as it comes to a boil remove it from 
the fire, pour into a tureen and serve at once with 
crackers. 

Oyster Stew — No. 2: 

Open and separate the liquor from them and strain; 
wash the oysters till free from grit and put with them 



26 SOUPS. 

a bit of mace and lemon-peel and a few white pep- 
pers. Simmer them very gently, and put in some 
cream and a little flour and butter. Serve with bread 
broken in. The beards of the oysters should be re- 
moved. But few minutes are required to prepare the 
stew. 

Soup Powder. 

Two ounces each of parsley, summer savory, sweet 
marjoram, and thyme, one ounce each of lemon peel 
and sweet basil. Dry, pound, sift and keep in a 
tightly corked bottle. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 27 



2g ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



FISH 



-cX-t- 



To Select Fish. 

In every sort, stiffness and redness of the gills, and 
brightness of the eyes, are invariable signs of fresh- 
ness ; thickness of flesh generally marks the good 
condition of all fish. 

Observations on Dressing Fish. 

If the fishmonger does not clean it, fish is seldom 
very nicely cleaned. Common cooks are not apt to 
slit the fish low enough, by which, and not thoroughly 
washing blood, etc., from the bone, a very disgusting 
mass is left within, and mistaken for liver ; but fish- 
mongers in great towns wash it beyond w^hat is nec- 
essary for cleaning, and by perpetual watering di- 
minish the flavor. Salt should be put into the water 
in which all fish is boiled ; and cod is rendered firmer 
by the addition of two or three spoonfuls of vinegar. 
Cod, haddock and whiting eat firmer if a little salt be 
put into their gills, and they be hung up a few hours 
before dressing. 

Care must be taken to preserve the roe, melt and 
liver whole to let them be sufficiently dressed ; and to 
place them conspicuously when served. The sound 
adhering to the bone must be left there, but very 
carefully cleaned. 



30 FISH. 

Fish that is to be boiled must be put on the fire in 
cold hard water ; when it boils, skim with the great- 
est care ; throw in a little cup of cold water to check 
the extreme heat, then keep it swimering duly, lest the 
outside break before the thick and inner be done. 
Crimped fish should be put into boiling Avater, and 
simmered a few minutes. 

To judge if a large fish be sufficiently boiled, draw 
up the fish-plate, and with a thin knife try if the fish 
easily divides from the bone in the thick parts, which 
it will when done enough. Keep it hot, not by let- 
ting it sodden in the water, but by laying the fish- 
plate crosswise on the kettle, and covering it with a 
thick cloth. If left in the water after it is done, fish 
loses its firmness, and becomes woolly. Serve fish on 
a napkin. The fish looks more complete if fried fish 
be served round the boiled, alternately placed with 
the roe or melt, and handsomely garnished. 

Great care is necessary to drain the water from the 
boiled fish, that the dryness and color of the fried 
around it may not be lessened. 

To Fry Fish. 

Having nicely cleaned and washed it, dry it com- 
pletely ; dip it in yolks of eggs beaten, and then in a 
dish of bread-crumbs or cracker-dust ; if you wish it 
to look extra nice, repeat the Ggg and crumbs, and in- 
stantly plunge it into a thick-bottomed frying-pan, in 
which have ready a sufficient quantity of drippings or 
lard, boiling hot, to cover the fish. Let it gently fry 
until it becomes a beautiful yellow brown, and is 
done enough ; if the latter, before the color be ob- 
tained, the pan must be drawn to a cooler part of the 
fire to finish. The frying liquor must not be suffered 
to become black, as it will answer again with a little 



FISH 31 

fresh ; but it gives a bad color. Oil is the best thing 
to fry in, if the expense be no objection. 

Frying-pans suited to the sizes of fish, and oblong 
instead of round, will be found particularly useful, as 
much waste of lard will be prevented. 

TURBOT. 

If necessary turbot will keep a couple of days or 
more in perfection if a little salt be sprinkled over it, 
and it be hung in a very cool place. 

Boiled Turbot. 

The turbot-kettle must be of a proper size and in 
the nicest order. Set the fish in cold water sufficient 
to cover it completely ; throw a handful of salt and a 
glass of vinegar into it, and let it gradually boil. 
When thick, the fish is apt to be unequally done ; to 
prevent which, cut a slit down the back of two inches, 
close to the bone, and the same on the belly side, with 
a small, sharp knife. Be very careful that there fall no 
blacks ; but skim it well, and preserve the beauty of 
the color. Serve it garnished with a complete fringe 
of curled parsley, lemon and horse-radish. The sauce 
must be the finest lobster, anchovy butter and plain 
butter, served plentifully in separate tureens. 

Baked Turbot. 

Boil five or six pounds of haddock or cod. Take 
out the bones and shred fish very fine. Let a quart of 
milk, one-quarter of an onion, and a piece of parsley 
come to a boil. Stir in one-half cup flour, which has 
heen smoothed with one cup of milk and the yolks 
of two eggs (a little more flour may be needed). Sea- 
son with one-half teaspoonful white pepper, same 
quantity of thyme, one-half cup butter and plenty of 



32 FISH. 

salt. Butter a stone pan, put in first a layer of sauce, 
then one of fish and so on, finishing with sauce on 
top ; sprinkle over it cracker-crumbs and a light grat- 
ing of cheese. Bake for an hour in a moderate oven. 

To Dress Fresh Sturgeon. 

Cut slices an inch thick, rub egg over them, then 
sprinkle with crumbs of bread or cracker dust, par- 
sley, pepper and salt ; fold them in paper, and broil 
gently. Sauce : Butter, anchovy and soy. 

Another. 

Put a piece of butter rolled in flour in a stew-pan, 
with four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, 
some pepper and salt, half a pint of water, and a glass 
of vinegar. Stir it over the fire till it boils ; then let it 
become lukewarm, and steep the fish in it an hour or 
two. Butter a paper well, tie it around, and roast it 
without letting the spit run through. Serve with sor- 
rel and anchovy sauce. Three or four pounds of stur- 
geon will make a handsome dish. 

To Bon/ Salmon. 

Let it be put on in cold water, unless the fish be 
split ; then in warm. If underdone, it is very un- 
wholesome. Shrimp or anchovy sauce. 

To Broil Salmon. 

Cut slices an inch thick, and season with pepper 
and salt ; lay each slice in white paper well buttered ; 
twist the ends of the paper, and broil the slices over a 
slow fire six or eight minutes. Serve in the paper with 
anchovy sauce. 



FISH 33 

To Pot Salmon. 

Take a large piece, scale and wipe, but do not wash 
it ; salt very well ; let it lie till the salt is melted and 
drained from it, then season with mace, cloves and 
whole pepper ; lay in a few bay leaves, put it into a 
pan, cover it over with butter, and bake it ; when 
well done, drain it from the gravy, put it into the 
pots to keep, and, when cold, cover it with clarified 
butter. In this manner any firm fish may be done. 

Collared Salmon. 

Split such a part of the fish as may be sufficient to 
make a handsome roll, wash and wipe it, and having 
mixed salt, white pepper, mace and Jamaica pepper, in 
quantities to season it very high, rub it inside and out 
well. Then roll it tight and bandage it ; put as much 
water and one-third vinegar as will cover it with bay 
leaves, salt, and both sorts of pepper. Cover close, 
and simmer till done. Drain and boil quick the 
liquor, and put on when cold. Serve with fennel. It 
is an elegant dish. 

An Excellent Dish of Dried Salmon. 

Pull some into flakes ; have some eggs boiled hard 
and chopped ; put both into half a pint of thin 
cream, and two or three ounces of butter rubbed with 
a teaspoonful of flour ; skim it and stir till boiling 
hot ; make a wall of mashed potatoes round the inner 
edges of a dish, and pour the above into it. 

Pickled Salmon. 

Boil a salmon, and, when done, take it out Take a 
sufficient quantity of vinegar to cover your fish and 
heat it hot ; while hot add a few bay leaves and a few 
pepper-corns. Pour over the fish when cold. 



34 FISH. 

To Dress Salt Cod or Ling. 

Soak and clean the piece you mean to dress, then 
let it lay all night in water, with a glass of vinegar. . 
Boil it enough, then break it into flakes on the dish ; 
pour over it parsnips boiled and mashed, and then 
boil up with cream and a large piece of butter rubbed 
with a bit of flour. It may be served as above, with 
egg-sauce instead of parsnip, and the root served 
whole ; or the fish may be boiled and served without 
flaking, and sauces as above. 

To Dress Salt Fish that has been Boiled. 
Break it into flakes, and put it into a pan with sauce 
thus made ; mash some boiled parsnips, then add to it 
a cup of cream, and a good piece of butter rolled in 
flour, a little white pepper, an«i a half teaspoonful of 
mustard, all boiled together ; keep the fish no longer 
on the fire than to become hot, but not boil. This is 
an excellent dish. 

Soles. 

If boiled, they must be served with great care, to 
look perfectly white, and should be covered with pars- 
ley. The roe or melt of soles must not be taken out. 

Soles that have been fried are nice eaten cold with 
oil, vinegar, salt and mustard ; or, cut into large dice, 
in a bowl with salad. 

Soles, a la Portuguese. 
Take one large, or two small ; if large, cut the fish 
in two ; if small, they need only be split. The bones 
being taken out, put the fish into a pan with a bit of 
butter and some lemon juice ; fry, then lay the fish on 
a dish, and spread a force-meat over ea,ch piece, and 
roll it round, fastening the roll with a few small 
skewers. Lay tlie rolls into a small earthen pan, 



FISH 35 

beat an egg and wet them, then strew crumbs over, 
and put the remainder of the egg, with a little meat 
gravy, a spoonful of caper sauce, an anchovy chopped 
fine, and some parsley chopped, into the bottom of 
the pan ; cover it close, and bake in a slow oven till 
the fish are done. Then place the rolls in the dish 
for serving, and cover it to keep them hot till the 
baked gravy is skimmed ; if not enough, a little fresh, 
flavored as above, must be prepared and added to it. 
The heads of the fish are to be left on one side of the 
split part, and kept on the outer side of the roll ; 
and when served, the heads are to be turned towards 
each other in the dish. Garnish with fried or dried 
parsley. 

Stuffing for the Above. 
Chop cold beef, mutton or veal, a little ; then add 
some fat pork that has been lightly fried, cut small, 
and some onions, a little garlic or shallot, some pars- 
ley, anchovy, pepper, salt and nutmeg ; chop all fine 
with a few crumbs, and bind it with two or three 
yolks of eggs. 

Red Mullet. 
It is called the sea woodcock. Clean, but do not 
open or wash the inside, fold in oiled paper, and 
gently bake in a small dish. Make a sauce of the 
liquor that comes from the fish, with a piece of but- 
ter, a little flour, a little essence of anchovy, and a 
glass of sherry. Let it boil, and serve in a boat, and 
the fish in the paper case it w^as dressed in. 

Flounders. 
Let them be rubbed with salt inside and out, and 
lie two hours to give them some firmness. Boil, if so 
chosen ; but they are better fried ; for which observe 



36 FISH. 

the usual directions. Serve garnished with fried pars- 
ley. Sauce : Anchovy and butter. 

An Excellent Way of Dressing a Large Plaice, 
Especially if there be a Roe. 

Sprinkle with salt, and keep twenty-four hours ; 
then wash and wipe it dry, wet over with egg, cover 
with crumbs of bread ; heat some lard or fine drip- 
ping and two large spoonfuls of vinegar, boiling hot ; 
lay the fish in, and fry it a fine color, drain it from 
the fat, and serve it with fried parsley and anchovy 
sauce. You may dip the fish in vinegar, and not put 
it into the pan. 

Fried Herrings. 
Serve them of a light brown, with onions sliced 
and fried round them ; or without onions. 

Broiled Herrings. 
Flour them first, and boil to a good color ; plain 
butter for sauce. 

To Dress Pike. 
Scale it, and open as near the throat as you can, 
and, after cleaning well, stuff it \t^ith the following : 
Grated bread, anchovies, oysters, suet, salt, pepper, 
mace, half a pint of cream, four yolks of eggs ; 
mix all over the fire till it thickens, then put it into 
the fish, and sew it up. Boil or bake ; if the latter, 
bits of butter should be put over it, and half a pint of 
rich broth in the dish ; and, when the fish is ready, 
- take the gravy out of the dish, add a dessert-spoonful 
of essence of anchovy, the same of soy, and a squeeze 
of lemon, to some butter rolled in flour, and boiling 
it up, pour it into the dish, ^/'ote : If, in helping a 
pike, the back and belly are slit up, and each slice 
gently drawn downwards, there will be fewer bones 
given. 



FISH. 37 

To Fry Smelts. 

They should not be washed more than is necessary 
to clean them. Dry them in a cloth, then lightly 
flour them, but shake it off. Dip them into plenty of 
eggy then into bread or cracker crumbs, and put them 
into a pan of hot lard ; let them fry a few minutes a 
bright yellow-brown. Take care not to take off the 
light roughness of the crumbs, or their beauty will be 
lost. 

Scrambled Codfish. 

Beat two eggs into one cup' of milk, stir in half a 
cup of codfish properly freshened, put into a buttered 
pan, and stir briskly while cooking ; cook to the con- 
sistency of scrambled eggs. 

Codfish Cakes — A Yankee Dish. 

Take salt codfish that has been cooked slowly, stm- 
mered^ not boiled, the day before. Remove the 
bones and mince it. Mix it with warm pota- 
toes, mashed with butter and milk, in the proportion 
•of one-third codfish, and two-thirds mashed potatoes; 
add sufficient beaten ^gg to make the whole into a 
smooth paste. If it seems dry, add a little butter. 
Make into cakes an inch thick, and as large round as 
a teacup. 

Fried Eels. 

If small, they should be curled round and fried, be- 
ing first dipped into ^gg and crumbs of bread or 
•crackers. 

Collared Eel. 

Bone a large eel, but do not skin it ; mix pepper, 
salt, mace ^nd allspice, add a clove or two, in the 
.finest powder, and rub over the whole inside ; roll it 



38 FISH. 

tight, and bind with a coarse tape. Boil in salt and 
water and two bay leaves, till done, then add vinegar, 
and when cold keep the collar in pickle. Serve it 
whole or in slices. Chopped sage, parsley and a lit- 
tle thyme, knotted marjoram and savory, mixed with 
the spices, greatly improve the taste. 

Excellent Fish Cake. 

Take any sort of dressed fish (the remains of a tur- 
bot do well), cut the meat from the bones, put them, 
the head and fins, over. the fire, with a pint of water, 
an onion, herbs, pepper and salt to stew for gravy. 
Mince the meat, put to it a third part of crumbs of 
bread or cracker dust, a little minced onion, parsley, 
pepper and salt, and the least bit of mace ; mix well, 
and make it into a cake with white of an egg and a 
little melted butter ; cover it with raspings, and fry 
it a pale brown, keeping a plate on the top while do- 
ing. Then lay it in a stew-pan with the fish gravy, 
and stew it gently a quarter of an hour ; turn it twice, 
but with great care not to break it ; cover it closely 
while stewing. 

Cake of dressed meat, done in the same way, is re- 
markably good. 

Fish Chowder. 

Five pounds of any kind of fish (the light salt- 
water fish is the best), half a pound of pork, two large 
onions, one quart sliced patatoes, one quart water, 
one pint of milk, two tablespoohfuls of flour, six 
crackers, salt, pepper. Skin the fish, and cut all the 
flesh from the bones. Put the bones on to cook in 
the quart of water, and simmer gently ten minutes. 
Fry the pork, then add the onions, cut into slices. 
Cover and cook five minutes, then add the flour and 
cook eight minutes longer, stirring often. Strain on 



FISH. 39 

this the water in which the fish bones were cooked 
and boil gently for five minutes, then strain all on the 
potatoes and fish. Season with salt and pepper, and 
simmer fifteen minutes. Add the milk and crackers, 
which were first soaked for three minutes in the milk. 
Let it boil up once, and serve. The milk may be 
omitted and a pint of tomatoes used, if you like. 

Broiled Fresh Fish. 

Split open on the back ; broil first on one side, then 
on the other ; it should not be broiled rapidly, but 
should be thoroughly cooked, three-quarters of an 
hour being about the time required for broiling an 
ordinary fish ; spread with butter as soon as taken 
from the gridiron, and serve hot. 

Fried Brook Trout. 

This is an important recipe, and they are delicious 
when well cooked. The best method is to cut thin 
slices of salt pork and place them in a frying-pan 
until the fat has cooked out ; then, after cleaning the 
trout nicely and washing them well, rub them thor- 
oughly with salt and allow them to stand for a little 
time ; then dry and roll each one in cracker dust, and 
place them in the fat smoking hot, watch them, con- 
stantly turning first one and then another to avoid 
burning, frying until thoroughly cooked through. If 
they are not cooked enough they will not be good and 
will also be spoiled by allowing them to burn, v/hich 
they do very easily. 

Cream Baked Trout. 

Clean the trout, put in pepper and salt, and close 
them. Plaoe the fish in the pan, with just cream 
enough to cover the fins, and bake fifteen minutes. 



40 ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



SHELL-FISH. 



Clam Chowder — No. 1. 

The materials needed are fifty quahogs or round 
clams, a large bowl of salt pork cut into fine pieces, 
the same quantity of onions chopped fine, the same 
quantity of potatoes (or more, if you choose) cut in 
eighths or sixteenths. Wash the clams very thor- 
oughly, put them in a pot with a half pint of water. 
When the shells open they are done. Take them from 
the shells and chop them fine, saving all the clam 
water for the chowder. Fry out the pork very gently, 
and when the scraps are a good brown take them out 
and put the chopped onions into the fat to fry. The 
chief secret in chowder making is to fry the onions so 
delicately that they will be missing in the chowder. 
They should be fried in a frying-pan, and. the chow- 
der-kettle be made very clean before they are trans- 
ferred to it, or the chowder will burn. Add a quart 
of hot water to the onions, and put in the clams, clam 
water and pork scraps. After it boils add the pota- 
toes, and when the potatoes are cooked the chowder is 
finished. Just before it is taken up thicken it with a 
cup of powdered crackers and add a quart of fresh 
milk If too rich add more water. No seasoning is 
needed but good black pepper. 



42 SHELL-FISH. 

Clam Chowder — No. 2. 

Take three slices fat pork ; cut small and fry crisp 
six potatoes and six onions ; then put into a kettle 
some of the pork and fat ; then alternate a layer of 
potatoes with a layer of onions ; then add pepper, salt 
and rolled cracker ; then repeat, and put in enough 
hot w^ater to cook. Cook slowly, and, when nicely 
done, add half a pound of butter, one quart of milk 
and one quart of clams. Before serving, add a few 
large crackers. 

To Pickle Oysters. 

Wash four dozen of the largest oysters you can get 
in their own liquor, wipe them dry, strain the liquor 
off, adding to it a dessert-spoonful of pepper, tw^o 
blades of mace, a tablespoonf ul of salt if the liquor be 
not very salt, seven of vinegar. Simmer the oysters a 
few minutes in the liquor ; then put them in small 
jars and boil the pickle up ; skim it, and when cold 
pour over the oysters ; cover close. 

Fried Oysters — No. 1. 

Make a batter of flour, milk and eggs ; season it a 
very little, dip the oysters into it, and fry them a fine 
yellow-brown. Take off the beards previously. A 
little nutmeg should be put into the seasoning, and a 
few crumbs of bread into the flour. 

Fried Oysters — No. 2. 

Take fine, large oysters, put them in a colander and 
drain off the liquor. Have a beaten egg on one plate 
and cracker dust on another. Lift the oysters, one at 
a time, with a foik; dip first in the egg, then in the 
cracker dust ; lay them two together, making them 
look like one, place them in the palm of your hand 



SHELL-FISH. " 43 

and pat them together, so that they will not come 
apart ; lay them on a dish until you have them all 
ready to fry ; place on the fire a frying-pan, with one 
tablespoonful of lard and one of butter in it ; as soon 
as it is boiling hot lay in the oysters ; sprinkle a lit- 
tle salt on them and fry them a nice brown ; when 
done lift them out and put them in a colander and 
set them in the oven until wanted ; serve on a warra 
dish. 

Oyster Patties. 

Put one quart of oysters into a saucepan, with 
liquor enough to cover them ; set it on the stove and 
let it come to a boil ; skim v/ell and stir in two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, a little pepper and salt. Line 
some patty-pans with puff-paste, fill with oysters, 
cover with paste, and bake twenty minutes in a hot 
oven. The upper crust may be omitted, if desired. 



Oyster Pie. 

Line a deep dish with pastry and bake it ; then fill 
with oysters, seasoned with salt, pepper, a teaspoon- 
ful of butter and two of cream ; cover with pastry 
and set it in the oven and bake for twenty minutes. 
Serve at once. 

Steamed Oysters. 

Leave a covered dish where it will heat ; wash and 
drain the oysters, then put them in a shallow tin and 
place it in the steamer ; cover and leave it over boil- 
ing water until the oysters are puffed and curled. 
Then they may be dressed at table when eaten, or but- 
ter, salt and pepper may be added in the kitchen, 
when served in the heated dish. 



44 shell-fish. 

Roasted Oysters. 

Wash the shells perfectly clean, wipe them dry and 
lay them on a gridiron, the largest side to the fire ; set 
it over a bright bed of coals. When the shells open 
wide and the oysters look white, they are done. Fold 
a napkin on a large dish or tray ; lay the oysters on 
the shells, care being taken not to lose the juice ; 
serve hot. When oysters are served roasted, there 
should be a small tub between each two chairs to 
receive the shells. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Line the bottom of a pudding dish with cracker or 
stale bread crumbs; then put in a layer of oysters sea- 
soned with salt, pepper and butter, and so on until 
the dish is full, having the top layer of croimbs. Lay 
small lumps of butter over the top, pour over half a 
pint of cream; set it in the oven and bake half an 
hour. Serve at once. 

Oyster Loaf. 

Cut a piece, five inches across, from the top of a 
round loaf of bread; remove the crumbs, leaving the 
crust half an inch thick; make a nice oyster stew, and 
put in the loaf in layers, sprinkled with bread crumbs; 
place the cover over the top, and cover the loaf with 
the beaten yolk of an egg, and put it in the oven to 
glaze. Make a wreath of curled parsley on a platter, 
with the stems turned in, and place the loaf on them, 
concealing all but the leaves. 

Oyster Toast. 

Scald a quart of oysters in their own liquor; take 
them out and pound them in a mortar; when they 
form a paste, add a little cream, and season with 



SHELL-FISH. 45 

pepper. Get ready some nice pieces of toast, spread 
the oyster paste upon tliem, and place them for a few 
minutes in an oven to heat. A little finely-chopped 
pickle may be strewn on the top before serving. 

Oyster Macaronl 

Boil macaroni in a cloth to keep it straight. Put a 
layer in a dish seasoned with pepper, salt and butter, 
then a layer of oysters, until the dish is full. Mix 
some grated bread with a beaten egg, spread over the 
top, and bake. 

Oysters — Fancy Roast. 

Toast a few slices of bread and butter them; lay 
them in a shallow dish; put on the liquor of the 
oysters to heat, add salt and pepper, and just before it 
boils add the oysters; let them boil up once, and pour 
over the bread. 

Oysters Baked in the Shell. 

Open the oysters, place them in a dripping pan in 
the shell, season with salt and pepper and bake half 
an hour. Just before taking them out, put a piece of 
butter into each shell. Serve in the shells. 

Oyster Fritters. 

Beat four eggs until very light, and add to them 
one pint of milk; stir in flour enough to make a stiff 
batter; add a little salt; scald one quart of oysters in 
their own liquor, then drain and dry them. Season 
with pepper and salt, and put into the batter and fry. 

Lobster Pudding. 

Divide the body in two, and having cleared the 
back shell and dressed the meat of the whole as for 



46 SHELL-FISH. 

patties, lay it in the shell hot; cover with crumbs of 
bread, and brown with a salamander. If the lobsters 
are small, use two. 

Rissoles of Lobsters. ^ 

Chop the flesh of a large lobster, or two small ones, 
and mix with it a very little lemon peel, pepper, salt, 
nutmeg or mace, a small piece of butter, cream and a 
little cracker dust. Roll the mass and cover it in 
small quantities, the size of sausages, with a light 
puff paste. Rub over them the yolks of eggs; and 
dip them in fine cracker dust. Fry to a yellow brown, 
and serve them with crisped parsley. 

Buttered Lobster. 

Pick the meat out, cut it, and warm with a little 
weak brown gravy, nutmeg, salt, pepper, butter and a 
little flour. If done white, serve with a little white 
gravy and cream. 

To Pot Lobsters. 

Half boil them, pick out the meat, cut it into small 
pieces, season with mace, white pepper, nutmeg and 
salt; press close into a pot, and cover with butter; 
bake half an hour; put the spawn in. When cold 
take the lobster out and put it into pots, with a lit- 
tle of the butter. Beat the other butter with 
some of the spawn; then mix that colored butter with 
as much as will be sufficient to cover the pots, and 
strain it. Cayenne may be added, if approved. 

Lobster Patties. 

For lobster patties use the meat of a cold boiled 
lobster, and follow the directions given for oyster 
patties. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPESw 47 



48 ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 




Ailch Bone of Beef . 




Haifa Calf's Head. 




Shoulder of Mutton. 




Leg of Mutton. 




Quarter of Lamb. 




Haunch of Venison. 




Ham. 



MEATS. 



To Select Beef. 

Nice beef may be known by its color. The fat will 
be of an oily smoothness, and white, rather than yel- 
low. The lean will be of an open grain and bright 
red. Yellow fat is a sure sign of an inferior quality 
of meats. 

A Few Practical Hints. 

Particular care should be taken to well skim all 
boiled meats and to well baste all roast meats. 

The more soups and broths are skimmed, the 
clearer and better they will be. 

Meats boiled quick will be hard. 

A ham weighing ten pounds will take four hours' 
gentle boiling. 

A leg of pork to boil will take twenty minutes to 
the pound. 

Beef or mutton fifteen minutes to the pound, either 
to boil or bake. 

A tongue takes four hours' boiling. A pickled 
tongue two hours and a half. 

Drippings, if sweet, will baste everything as well 
as butter, except game. 

Meat and vegetables that have been touched with 
the fiost should be soaked in cold water for two hours 
before using. 



50 MEATS. 

Roast Venison. 

Lay three long slices of salt pork on a haunch of 
venison; place in a dripping pan, and add salt and 
pepper and hot water; baste very often. It will take 
about four hours to bake well. Serve with jelly 
sauce. To make a gravy, take up the venison and 
pour one quart of boiling water in the dripping pan; 
work flour smoothly into a piece of butter the size of 
an egg and turn into the pan; let it boil and then 
strain. Serve in a gravy boat. 

Spiced Beef. 

Cover a 'round of beef, weighing about sixteen 
pounds, with a pound of salt, and turn it every day 
for a week. At the end of that time, wash it in cold 
water, rub it w^ell with two ounces of black pepper 
and a quarter of an ounce of mace. Fry three or four 
onions sliced, add a few cloves, then put in the meat, 
cover it with water, and bake in a stone-covered stew- 
ing-pan for five hours. To be eaten cold, for break- 
fast or supper. ' 

Stewed Shoulder of Venison. 

Take the bone out of a shoulder of venison, and 
beat the meat with a rolling-pin or hammer; lay 
among it some slices of mutton fat that have been 
soaked and stewed tender in port wine; sprinkle a 
little pepper and allspice over it, and then roll it up 
tight and tie it; set in a stew-pan that will only just 
hold it, and add some mutton or beef gravy, half a 
pint of port wine and some pepper and allspice. Sim- 
mer it as slow as you can, closely covered, for three 
or four hours, or until tender. Take off the string, 
set the meat on a dish and strain the gravy over it. 
Serve with currant jelly sauce. 



MEATS. 51 

Breast of Venison. 

Follow the directions for stewing the shoulder, or 
make into a small pastry In the latter case, bake it 
with good mutton gravy in a pan the day before, and 
season with pepper, salt and some Jamaica pepper 
when you put the crust on. 

Italian Beefsteaks. 
Cut a fine, large steak from a rump that has been 
well hung (or it will do f rom. any /^«^^r part); beat it, 
and season with pepper, salt and onion; lay it in an 
iron stew-pan with a close-fitting cover, and set it by 
the side of the fire without water. Take care it does 
not burn, as it must have a strong heat; in two or 
three hours it will be quite tender, and then serve 
with its own gravy. 

Beefsteak. 

Good beefsteak should be cut three-quarters of an 
inch thick, and broiled over or before a clear, bright 
fire. Serve on a hot dish with butter, pepper and 
salt, or if desired, mushroom or tomato sauce. 
Pounding steak is a bad but prevalent habit, and 
should be avoided, as much of the juice (the most nu- 
tritious part) of the meat is wasted. When broiling 
turn frequently, as the juice should not be drawn 
out on either side. 

Beefsteaks and Oyster Sauce. 
Strain off the liquor from the oysters, and throw 
them into cold water to take off the grit, while you 
simmer the liquor with a bit of mace and lemon-peel; 
then put the oysters in and stew for a few minutes; 
add a little cream if you have it, and some butter 
rubbed in a little flour; let them boil up once; have 
your steak well seasoned and broiled, ready for the 
oyster sauce, the moment you ar? to serve. 



62 MEATS. 

Staffordshire Beefsteaks. 

Flour and season your steak, and fry with sliced 
onions; then lay into a stew-pan, after frying, and 
pour as much boiling water over it as will serve for 
sauce; stew very gently for half an hour, and add a 
teaspoonful . of catsup or walnut liquor before you 
serve. 

Beef, a la Mode. 

Make a stuffing of rich herbs, spices and suet, and 
stuff the beef with it; one and one-half bottles of port 
or claret wine, according to the size of the beef, and 
five quarts of water. Do not let it boil, but simmer 
until it is done. 

Beef Heart. 

Wash it carefully and stuff it nicely; roast or bake 
it, and serve with the gravy, which should be thick- 
ened with some of the stuffing. It is very nice 
hashed, with a little port wine added. 

Beef Palates. 

Simmer them in water several hours until they v/ill 
peel; then cut the palates into slices, or leave them 
whole, as you choose; stew them in a rich gravy until 
as tender as possible. Before serving, season them 
with pepper, salt and catsup. If the gravy was drawn 
clear, boil it with some butter and flour. If to be 
served white, boil them in milk, and stew them in 
fricassee sauce, adding cream, butter, flour, mushroom 
powder and a little mace. 

To Pickle Beef Palates. 

Clean four fine palates, simmer them in a quart of 
water, skim them well, and then put as much mace, 
cloves, pepper and sweet herbs as will flavor them 



MEATS. 53 

highly, in which boil them until perfectly tender, 
which will take about five hours; take the skin off, 
cut them into small pieces and let them cool, being 
covered. Make a pickle sufficient to cover them with 
equal parts of white wine and vinegar, the spices be- 
fore used, and some salt; strain when cold, and pour 
the liquor on the palates, with a little fresh spice and 
four or five bay-leaves. Cover very close. 

To Pot Beef. 

Take two pounds of lean beef, rub it with saltpetre, 
and let it lie one night; then salt and cover it with 
water four days in a pan. Dry it with a cloth, and 
season with black pepper; lay it into as small a pan 
as will hold it; cover it with coarse paste, and bake 
11 five hours in a very cool oven. Put no liquor in. 
When cold, pick out the strings and fat; chop the 
meat fine with a quarter of a pound of butter, just 
warmed, but not oily, and as much of the gravy as 
will make it into a paste; put it into very small pots, 
and cover it with melted butter. 

Another. 

Rub three pounds of beef with two ounces of 
dark brown sugar, and a quarter of an ounce of salt- 
petre let it lie forty-eight hours; wash it clean, 
and dry it; season with pepper, salt, mace and twelve 
cloves; lay it in an earthern pot, with four ounces of 
butter put over it in pieces. Bake it three hours; 
then cut off the hard outside and chop it fine. 
Melt four ounces of fine butter in this and the gravy 
which comes from the beef, and chop with the beef as 
fine as possible. Add seasoning to your taste. Put 
it into pots; cover deep with clarified butter, and keep 
in a cool, dry place 



64 . MEATS. 

Minced Beef. 

Mince your beef with onions, pepper, and salt; add 
a little gravy, and put it into scollop shells or saucers, 
making them three parts full; then fill them up with 
potato, mashed with a little cream; put a small piece 
of butter on the top oi each, and brown them in an 
oven, or with a salamander 

To Dress the Inside of a Cold Sirloin of Beef. 

Cut out all the meat, and a little fat, into pieces as 
thick as your finger and two inches long; dredge 
them with flour, and fry in butter; drain the butter 
from the meat, from which make a rich gravy, sea- 
soned with pepper, salt, anchovy, and shallot. Do not 
let it boil on any account. Before you serve add 
two spoonfuls of vinegar. Garnish with crimped 
parsley. 

To Dress an Ox Cheek. 

Soak half a head three hours, and clean it with 
plenty of water. Take the meat off the bones, and 
put it into a pan with a large onion, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, some ground allspice, pepper, and salt. Lay 
the bones on the top; pour on three pints oi water, 
and cover the pan close with browm paper, or a dish 
that will fit tightly. Let it stand eight or ten hours 
in a slow oven. When done tender, put the meat 
into a clean pan, and let it get cold. Take the cake 
of fat off, and warm the head in pieces in the soup, 
adding truffles, morels, and force-meat balls. Put 
in what vegetables you choose. 

Tripe. 

May be served in a tureen, stewed tender with milk 
and onions, or fri-ed in bits dipped in batter. In 



MEA'JS. 55 

both the above ways, serve melted butter for sauce. 
Or, if preferred, cut the thin parts in oblong bits, 
and stew in gravy; thicken with butter rolled in a 
very little flour, and add a spoonful of mushroom 
catsup. 

Soused Tripe. 

Boil the tripe, but not quite tender; then put it into 
salt and water, which must be changed every day till 
it is all used. When you dress the tripe, dip it into a 
batter of flour and eggs, and fry it to a good brown. 

Savory Beef. 

Take a shin of beef from the hind quarter, saw it 
into four pieces and put it in a pot; boil it until the 
meat an 1 gristle drop from the bones; chop the meat 
very fine and put it in a dish; season it with a little 
salt, pepper, cloves and sage, to your taste; pour in 
the liquor, in which the meat was boiled, and place it 
away to harden. Cut in slices and eat cold. 

To Curry Meat. 

Take slices from cold beef or mutton, and from 
your jar of ready-made gravy take enough to cover 
your meat; let it cook slowly for twenty minutes; 
then rub some butter and flour together to thicken it; 
add curry powder to taste; one teaspoonful will be 
enough. 

Tongues to be Eaten Cold. 

Season with salt, saltpetre, brown sugar, pepper, 
cloves, mace and allspice for a fortnight; then take 
away the pickle and put the tongue into a small pan; 
lay some butter on it and cover with brown crust; 
bake slowly till so tender that a straw would go 
through it. • 



56 MEATS. 

To Select Veal. 

When tlie kidney is well surrounded with fat, you 
may be sure the meat is of good quality. Always 
choose that which is whitest and fattest. If the vein 
in the shoulder, which is very perceptible, is a bright 
red or blue, it is a sure sign that the meat is fresh. 

Shoulder of Veal. 

Cut off the knuckle for a stew or gravy. Roast the 
other part with a stuffing; you may lard it. Serve 
with melted butter. The blade-bone, with a good 
deal of meat left on, is extremely palatable with 
mushrooms or oyster-sauce, or mushroom catsup in 
butter. 

Roast Fillet of Veal. 

Make a stuffing of a little beef suet, chopped fine, 
the same quantity of bread crumbs, a little sweet 
marjoram, the rind of two lemons, grated, a table- 
spoonful of grated horse-radisli, a little pepper and 
salt; if you choose add the yolks of two hard boiled 
eggs, cut up fine. Introduce the stuffing through the 
fillet and secure it with skewers and twine; baste it 
well while it is roasting, and make a gravy of the 
drippings, thickened with flour. 

Veal Sweet-breads. 

Take two or three fresh sweet-breads, parboil them 
for a few minutes, then take them from the hot water, 
and put them into cold. Take some bread crucnbs or 
cracker dust and add the yolks of two eggs, well 
beaten, to the crumbs. When the sweet-breads are per- 
fectly cold, place them on a skewer, and roll them in 
the prepared crumbs, lay them in a stew-pan with a 
small bit of butter and a little veal gravy, and cook 



MEATS. 57 



them a nice brown. Take the gravy in which they 
are cooked, add the juice of a lemon, a little salt and 
pepper; toast some slices of bread, dip them into the 
gravy, and lay the sweet-breads on. 

To Dress Calf's Head like Turtle. 
Let them boil an lioiir and a half, with salt in the 
water; tie the brains in a cloth bag, and boil half an 
hour; when all is done, take out the bones and cut up 
in pieces. Add to your liquor a little sweet marjoram, 
a nutmeg, grated, clove, mace, and pepper to taste, half 
a pint of catsup, half a pound of butter, and a pint of 
claret, or port wine; then put in the meat, and boil a 
few minutes, and it is done. 

Breast of Veal. 

Before roasted, if large, the two ends may be taken 
off and fried or stewed, or the whole may be roasted. 
Butter should be poured over it. If any is left, cut 
the pieces into handsome sizes, put tliem into a stew- 
pan, and pour some broth over them; or if you have 
no broth, a little vrater will do; add a bunch of herbs, 
a blade or two of mace, some pepper and an anchovy; 
stew till the meat is tender; thicken witli butter and 
fiour, and add a little catsup; or the whole breast may 
be stewed, after cutting off the two ends. Serve the 
sweet-bread whole upon it, which may either be 
stewed or parboiled, and then covered with crumbs, 
herbs, pepper and salt, and browned in an oven. 

To Collar a Breast of Veal. 

' Bone it, take off the thick skin and gristle, and beat 

the meat with a rolling-pin. Season it with herbs 

chopped very fine, mixed with salt, pepper and mace. 

Lay on it some thick slices of fine ham, or roll into it 



58 MEATS. 

two or three calves' tongues of a fine red, boiled first 
an hour or two and skinned. Bind it up tight in a 
cloth and tie it. Set it over a slow fire to simmer in 
a small quantity o:^ water, till it is quite tender; this 
will take some hours. Lay it on the dresser, with a 
board and weight on it till cold. Pigs' and calves' 
feet boiled, and taken from the bones, may be put in 
or around it. The different colors laid in layers look 
well when cut; you may also put in yolks of eggs 
boiled, beet-root, grated ham and chopped parsley, in 
different parts. When it is cold, take off the string, 
and pour over it the liquor, which must be boiled up 
twice a week, or it will not keep. 

A Ragout of Cold Veal. 

Cut the veal into slices; put a large piece of butter 
into a frying-pan, and as soon as it is hot, dredge the 
meat well with flour, and fry a nice brown. Remove 
the meat, and put into the pan as much of your cold 
gravy as you think proper; season with pepper and 
salt, and a wine glass of tomato catsup; then cut a 
few slices of cold ham, lay into the gravy, and odd 
vour slices of veal. It must be sent to the table hot. 

Chump of Veal, a la Daube. 

Cut off the chump end of the loin; take out the 
edgebone; stuff the hollow with good force-meat, tie 
it up tight and lay it in a stew-pan with the bone 3^ou 
took out, a small bunch of herbs and anchovy, two 
blades of mace, a few^ white peppers, and a pint of 
good veal broth. Cover the veal with slices of fat 
pork, and lay a sheet of white paper over it. Cover 
the pan close; simmer it two hours, and then take 
out the pork and glaze the veal. Serve it on mush- 
rooms, or sorrel sauce, or what else you please. 



MEATS. 59 

Hashed Veal. 

A most excellent recipe for hashed veal is to cook 
it fine, put in just enough water to moisten it, butter, 
salt, pepper and a little juice of a lemon (some like a 
little lemon rind grated in), heat it through but do 
not let it fry, as it injures cooked meats to cook them 
again. Put it on buttered toast and garnish with 
lemon. 

Fricandeau of Veal. 

What is called a fricandeau of veal is simply a 
cushion of veal trimmed into shape, larded and 
braised. Cut three or four pounds from a fillet of 
veal, form it into an oval-shaped loaf, and lard it on 
top. Put some pieces of pork into a sauce-pan with 
two slices of carrot, an onion with cloves stuck in, a 
stick of celery and some parsley. Place the veal on 
this, larded side up. Sprinkle over pepper, salt and 
a little flour, and cover it with w^ell-buttered paper. 
Now fill the pan with boiling stock, or water enough 
to just cover the meat. Cover with a tight lid and 
put it into a hot oven. It will take about two or two 
and a half hours to cook. It may be garnished with 
green peas, spinach or sorrel. It is often served on a 
bed of mashed potatoes, or garnished with potato 
balls. The best sauce for a fricandeau is a tomato 
sauce 

Cutlets Maintenon. 

Cut slices about three-quarters of an inch thick, 
beat them with a rolling-pin, and wet them on both 
sides with egg; dip them into a seasoning of crax:ker 
crumbs, parsley, thyme, knotted marjoram, pepper, 
salt, and a little nutmeg, grated; then put them into 
papers folded over, and broil them Have in a boat 
melted butter with a little mushroom catsup. 



60 MEATS. 

Cutlets, . Another Way. 

Prepare as above, and fry them, lay them into a 
dish, and keep them hot; dredge in a little flour, and 
put a little butter into the pan; brown it; then pour 
a little boiling water into it and boil quick; season 
with pepper, salt and catsup, and pour over them. 
Or pepper, salt, and broil them, especially neck steaks. 
They are excellent with herbs. 

Veal Collops. 

Cut long, thin collops, pound them well, and lay 
on them a piece. of thin pork of the same size, and 
spread force-meat on that, seasoned high, and also a 
little garlic and cayenne pepper. Roll them up tight, 
about the size of two fingers, but no more than tw^o 
or three inches long; put a very sm.all skewer to 
fasten each firmly; rub egg over; fry them to a fine 
brown, and pour a rich brown gravy over. 

To Dress Collops Quick. 

Cut them thin, with a very sharp knife, and in small 
pieces. Throw the skin, and any odd pieces of the 
veal, into a little water, with a little pepper and salt; 
set them on the fire while you beat the collops; then 
dip them into a seasoning of herbs, bread, pepper, 
salt and a scrape of nutmeg, but first wet them in 
Ggg- Then put a piece of butter into a frying-pan, 
and give the collops a very quick fry; for as they arc 
so thin, two minutes will do them on both sides; put 
them into a hot dish before the fire, then strain and 
thicken the gravy. 

Veal Olives. 

Cut long, thin slices, beat well and lay on them thin 
slices of fat pork, and over these a layer or force-meat, 



MEATS. 61 

seasoned high with some slired shallot and cayenne 
pepper. Roll them tight, about the size of two 
lingers, but not more than two or three inches long; 
fasten them round with a small skewer, rub egg OA^er 
them and fry them to a light brown. Serve with 
brown gravy, in which boil some mushrooms, pickled 
or fresh. Garnish with balls fried. 

Excellent Dish made from Roasted Veal. 
From a joint, not overdone, cut thin slices and 
remove the skin and gristle; put some sliced onion 
and a shallot over the fire with a piece of butter and 
some flour, fry and shake them. Put in some veal 
gravy and a bunch of sweet herbs; simmer ten min- 
utes; strain oif the gravy, and put it to the veal, with 
some parsley, chopped fine, and a little grated lemon 
peel and nutmeg; let it simmer one minute; then add 
the yolks of two eggs, beaten up with two spoonfuls 
of cream and a very little pepper; stir over the fire 
one way, until the same be thick and smooth; squeeze 
a little lemon juice in and serve. 

To Collar Calf's Head. 
Scald the skin of a fine head, clean it nicely, and 
take out the brains. Boil it tender enough to remove 
the bones; then have ready a good quantity of chopped 
parsley, mace, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper, mixed 
well; season it high with these; lay the parsley in a 
thick layer, then a quantity of thick slices of fine ham, 
or a beautifully-colored tongue skinned, and then the 
yolks of six nice yellow eggs stuck here and there 
about. Roll the head quite close, and tie it up as 
tight as you can. Boil it till the tape slackens, and 
then lay a weight on it (without removing the band- 
age) till quite cold. . Keep it in a pickle of the liquor, 
vinegar and salt. A cloth must be put under the 
taDC, as for bthcr collars. 



62 MEATS. 

Calf's Liver. 

Slice it, season it with pepper and salt, and broil 
nicely; rub a bit of cold butter on it, and serve hot, 
with small slices of fat pork, or on fried herbs. 

Sweet-breads, a la Daube. 

Blanch tw^o or three of the largest sweet-breads 
and lard them with small pieces of pork. Put them 
into a stew-pan with some good veal gravy, a little 
browning, and the juice of half a lemon; stew them 
till quite tender, and just before serving thicken with 
flour and butter. Serve with their gravy, around 
which place bunches of boiled celery. 

Sweet-breads for every mode of dressing, should be 
prepared by half-boiling, and then putting them in 
cold water. This, called blanching, makes them 
whiter and thicker, as well as firmer. 

Hashed Mutton with Herbs. 

Put into a sauce-pan a good piece of butter, some 
finely minced shallot, parsley, and half a pint of 
mushrooms; boil them gently in the butter; then, by 
degrees, mix in a large spoonful of flour, half a pint 
of broth, and stew till the flavor of all is obtained; let 
it become a little cool and then mince some under- 
done mutton in it, without boiling. 

Mutton Kidneys. 

With a very sharp knife cut mutton kidneys in the 
thinnest possible slices; flour, and fry quickly till 
they are quite crisp. While frying, add pepper and 
salt. Serve them in a good gravy, to which a little 
garlic has given a very slight flavor. 



MEATS. 63 

Mutton Steaks with Beans. 

Wash the beans and drain the water from them; 
then simmer them with pepper and salt in a good 
piece of butter, a few minutes before serving. Add 
the beaten yolk of an egg, and shake the pan over the 
fire, but they must not boil. In the meantime have 
three mutton steaks ready, neatly trimmed and sea- 
soned with pepper, salt and a few crumbs, and nicely 
broiled or fried. Serve them on the beans. 

Mutton, a la Venison. 

Take a fat loin, remove the kidney, and let it hang 
a week, if the weather permits. Two days before 
dressing it for cooking, take ground allspice, cloves 
and pepper, mix them, and rub into the meat a table- 
spoonful of each twice a day for two days. Before 
cooking, wash it off, and roast as a leg. To preserve 
the fat and keep it in, make a paste of flour and water, 
and spread thickly over the meat. Over this tie a 
double sheet of coarse paper, well buttered. About 
a quarter of an hour before it is done, remove the 
paper and paste, return to the oven and baste, and 
dredge with flour. It is equal to venison. 

Mutton Kidneys. 
Take half a dozen fine mutton kidneys, clear them 
of fat and skin, and cut them into thin slices; powder 
them immediately with sweet herbs in fine powder, a 
little cayenne pepper and salt. Put into a stew-pan 
two ounces of fine butter or fresh lard; put in 
the slices of kidney, and fry them nicely; dredge a 
little flour over them, and moisten with lemon juice, 
and in five minutes they will be done; lay them on a 
hot dish, around which place slices of fried bread. 
Pour into the gravy two glasses of white wine; boil 
it, pour over the kidneys, and serve hot. 



64 MEATS. 

Harrico. 

Take off some of the fat, and cut the middle or best 
end of the nock into rather thin steaks, flour, and fry 
them in their fat a fine light brown, but not enough 
for eating. Then put them into a dish while you fry 
the carrots, turnips and onions — the carrots and tur- 
nips in dice — the onions sliced; but they must only 
be warmed, not browned, or you need not fry them. 
Then lay the steaks at the bottom of a stew-pan, the 
vegetables over them, and pour as much boiling water 
as will just cover them; give one boil, skim well, and 
then set the pan on the side of the fire to simmer 
gently till the meat is tender. In three or four hours 
skim them, and add pepper, salt, and a spoonful of 
catsup. 

Fillet of Mutton Glazed* 

Take off the chump end of the loin, butter some 
paper, and put over it, and then paste as for venison; 
roast it two hours. Do not let it be the least brown. 
Have ready some boiled beans, drained on a sieve; 
while the 'mutton is being glazed, heat them up once 
in the gravy, and lay them on the dish with the 
meat over them. 

Roast Saddle of Mutton. 
Let it be well kept first. Raise the skin, and then 
skewer it on again; take it off a quarter of an hour 
before serving, sprinkle it with some salt, baste it and 
dredge it well with flour. The rump should be split, 
and skewered back on each side. The joint may be 
large or small, according to the company; it is the 
most elegant if the latter. Being broad, it requires a 
high and strong fire. 

Breast of Mutton. 
Cut off the superfluous fat, and roast; serve the 



MEATS. do 

meat with stewed cucumbers; or if to eat cold, cov- 
ered with chopped parsley. Or, half-boil, and broil 
it over the fire, in which case cover it with crumbs 
and herbs, and serve with caper-sauce. Or, if 
boned, take off a good dea'l of the fat, and cover it 
with bread, herbs and seasoning; then roll and boil 
till tender; pour over it chopped walnuts in butter. 
O-r, make it into a pie. 

To Collar a Breast of Mutton. 

Bone it, and rub it with the yolk of an egg; strew 
over it a little grated lemon-peel, pepper and salt; 
then mix a teacup of capers, two anchovies, a handful 
of parsley, a few sweet herbs, all minced fine, with 
bread crumbs or cracker dust, which spread over the 
mutton; roll it very tight, boil it two hours, and when 
cold, unbind the tape, and put it into a pickle of 
strong salt and water one pint; and vinegar half a 
pint. 

Mutton Chops. 

They should be cut from a loin or neck; if from 
a neck, the bone should be long. They should be 
broiled on a clear fire, seasoned when half done, 
and often turned; take them up into a very hot 
dish, rub a bit of butter on each, and serve hot the 
moment they are done. 

Mutton Cutlets in the Portuguese Way. 

Cut chops, and half-fry them with sliced shallot or 
onion, chopped parsley and two bay-leaves; season 
with pepper and salt; then lay a force-meat on a 
piece of white paper, put the chop on it, and twist 
the paper up, leaving a hole for the end of the bones 
to go through. Broil on a gentle fire. Serve with 
a little gravy 



^g MEATS, 

Steaks of Mutton or Lamb, and Cucumbers. 



Quarter cucumbers, and lay them into a de-ep dish, 
sprinkle them with salt, and pour vinegar over them. 
Fry the chops to a fine brown, and put them into a 
stew-pan; drain the cucumbers and put over the 
steaks; add some sliced onions, pepper and salt; 
pour hot water or Aveak broth on them; stew and 
skim well. If the gravy is not thick enough, put in 
a piece of butter rolled in a little flour. 

Leg of Lamb. 

Boil the leg in a cloth, as the meat will look much 
whiter. Fry the loin in steaks and serve, garnished 
with dried or fried parsley, or dressed separately, or 
roasted. A hind-quarter is seldom roasted, but if fat 
and young it is far more juicy and well-flavored than 
the fore-quarter, or either joint dressed separately. 

Fore-quarter OF Lamb. 
Roast it, either whole or in separate parts. If left 
to be cold, chopped parsley should be sprinkled over 
it. The neck and breast together are called a scoven. 

China Chilo. 

Mince a pint basin of undressed neck of mutton, or 
leg, and some of the fat; put two onions, a head of 
lettuce, a pint of green peas, a teaspoonful of salt, 
a teaspoonful of pepper, four spoonfuls of water, 
and two or three ounces of butter, into a stew-pan 
closely covered; simmer two hours, and serve in the 
middle of a dish of boiled rice. If cayenne pepper 
is approved, add a little. This cannot be done too 
slowly. 

Lamb Cutlets with Spinach. 

Cut the steaks from the loin, and fry them; the 
spinach is to be stewed and put into the dish first, and 
then the cutlets around it. 



MEATS. 67 

Lamb's Head and Hinge. 

Soak in cold water; boil the head separately till 
very tender; have ready the liver and lights, three 
parts boiled, and cut small; stew them in a little of 
the water in which they were boiled, season and 
thicken with flour and butter, and serve the mince 
around the head. 

Lamb's Sweet-breads. 

Blanch them, and place in cold water a short time. 
Then put them into a stew-pan, with a ladleful of 
broth, some pepper and salt, a small bunch of small 
onions, and a blade of mace; stir in a piece of butter 
and some flour, and stew half an hour. Have ready the 
yolks of two or three eggs, well beaten in cream, with 
a little minced parsley and a few grates of nutmeg. 
Put in some boiled asparagus tops with the other 
things. Do not let it boil after the cream is in; but 
make it hot, and stir it well continually. Take great 
care it does not curdle. Young beans or peas may be 
added, first boiled, of a beautiful green. 

To Select Pork. 

In fresh pork the flesh is firm, smootn, a clear color, 
and the fat set. Dairy fed pork bears the palm over 
all others. In young pork, the lean, when pinched, 
will break. Excellent bacon may be known by the 
lean being tender and of a bright color, the fat firm 
and white. 

Roast Leg of Pork. 

Choose a small leg of fine young pork; cut a slit 
in the knuckle with a sharp-knife and fill the space 
with sage and onion chopped, and a little pepper and 
salt. When half done, score the skin in slices, but 
do not cut deeper than the outer rind. 



68 MEATS. 

Boiled Leg of Pork. 

Salt it eight or ten days, turning it daily, but do 
not rub it after the first. When to be dressed, weigh 
it; let it lie half an hour in cold water to make it 
white; allow a quarter of an hour for every pound, 
and half an hour over from the time it boils up; 
skim it as soon as it boils, and frequently after, but 
do not boil it fast, or it will be hard. Allow water 
enough. Save some of it to make pea-soup. Some 
boil it in a very nice cloth, floured, which gives a very 
delicate look. 

Pork Steaks. 

Cut them from a loin or neck, and of middling 
thickness; beat the lean part with abroad knife; pep- 
per and broil them, turning them often; when nearly 
done, put on salt, rub a piece of butter over, and 
serve the moment they are taken off the fire, a few at 
a time. 

Spare-Ribs. 

They should be basted with very little butter and a 
little flour, and then sprinkled with dried sage 
crumbled. Apple-sauce and potatoes fo-r roasted 
pork. 

Pettitoes. 

Boil them, the liver and the heart, in a small quan- 
tity of water, very gently; then cut the meat fine, and 
simmer it with a little of the water, and the feet split, 
till the feet are quite tender; thicken with a piece of 
butter a little flour, a spoonful of cream, and a little 
salt and pepper; give it a boil, pour over it a few 
sippets of bread, and put the feet on the mince. 

To Roast a Sucking Pig. 

If you can get one when just killed, it is of great 
advantage. Let it be scalded, which the dealers 



MEATS. 69 

usually do; then put some sage, a large piece of old 
white bread, salt and pepper, into the belly, and sew 
it up. Observe to skewer the legs back, or the under 
part will not crisp. Lay it by a brisk fire till 
thoroughly dry; then have ready some butter in a 
dry cloth, and rub the pig with it in every part. 
Dredge as much flour over as will possibly lie, and do 
not touch it again till ready to serve; then scrape off 
the flour very carefully with a blunt knife, rub the 
pig well with the buttered cloth, and take off the 
head while at the fire. Take out the brains and mix 
them with the gravy that comes from the pig. Cut it 
down the back and belly, lay it into the dish, and chop 
the sage and bread quickly and as fine as you can; 
mix them with a large quantity of fine melted but- 
ter that has very little flour. Put the sauce into the 
dish after the pig has been split down the back, and 
garnished with the ears and .the two jaws; take off 
the upper part of the head down to the snout. It 
will require from an hour to an hour and a half to 
roast. 

Pigs' Feet and Ears Soused. 

Clean carefully, soak them some hours and then 
boil them tender; after having prepared a pickle of 
some of the liquor that they were boiled in, and a 
quarter part of vinegar and salt, boiled, pour over 
them cold. When to be dressed, dry them, cut the 
feet in two, slice the ears and fry them. Serve with 
butter, mustard, and vinegar, in a boat. They may 
be dipped in batter, or only floured. 

To Cure Hams. 

Hang them a day or two; then sprinkle them with 
a little salt, and drain them another day; pound an 
ounce and a half of saltpetre, the same quantity of 



70 MEATS. 

salt, half an ounce of sal-prunella, and a pound of 
the coarsest sugar. Mix these well, and rub them 
into each ham every day for four days, and turn. If 
a small one, turn it every day for three weeks; if a 
large one, a week longer; but do not rub after four 
days. Before you dry it, drain and cover with br&n. 
Smoke it ten days. 

Pork and Beans. 

One pound of pork to one quart of beans. Wash 
the beans at night and pour over one quart, of tepid 
water; in the morning add tAVO quarts of w^ater, after 
pouring oif the water that has stood over night. 
Drain and put them in a pot, cut the pork rind into 
small squares and put it in the centre of the beans; 
sink to the rind; then pour a quantity of hot water 
over them, cover the pot and bake slowly for three 
hours. 

Head Cheese. 

Boil the head and feet very tender; remove all the 
bones; put the meat into a strainer and press out all 
the grease possible; when cool, chop fine, season with 
pepper and salt and pack the same as sausage meat. 

How TO Choose a Ham, and Other Useful Infor- 
mation. 

Firsts Never buy a ham because it is offered at a 
low price. Cheapness counts one against its being 
choice. 

Second^ Do not select too lean a joint. The fat of 
a ham is often considered so much waste meat; so it 
may be in many families. But one would not select 
a very lean piece of beef for roasting; it would surely 
be dry and tough when cooked. Now, a well-fed and 
quickly fatted pig will furnish tender, juicy and fine- 



MEATS. 71 

flavored meat. Bear this in mind, and you will be 
willing to lose a little extra fat for your gain in the 
superior qualities of every other ounce of the flesh. 
Let the joint be well-rounded and plump rather than 
thin and flat, and ee© that the skin is thin and pliable. 

Third, Choose freshly-cured hams. Formerly the 
year's supply was packed in the winter, and, after 
smoking, must needs be canvassed to preserve it 
against the ravages of flies, and in this shape be carried 
to meet the demands through the summer and fall. 
This necessarily resulted in a considerable loss of the 
juices of the meat by evaporation; while the surface 
of the flesh gradually became densely covered with 
mildew, which often gave a mouldy flavor to the 
entire ham. This has now been entirely obviated by 
such improvements in curing by ice, that hams of the 
very finest quality are now prepared even in the hot- 
test weather; and so the market affords, to all buyers 
who will insist upon having them, new-cured hams 
for every day in the year. Wines improve by age; 
but not so meats. The more recently the joint has 
come from the curing-cask (other things being equal), 
the better it will please you when cooked. 

Fourth, The size of a ham has much to do with the 
way in which it should be served. A whole ham will 
boil more satisfactorily than a part of it. For broiling 
or frying never use a ham of less than twelve pounds, 
and one weighing fifteen or sixteen is better still for 
this purpose. Only the centre of such a ham, how- 
ever, should be sliced. Take off at least two inches 
from the large end of the ham in one cut. Then slice 
up the remainder as it is needed, until the upper joint 
in tke bone is reached. 

Fried Ham and Eggs. 
Cut the ham in rather thin slices, take off the rind 



12 MEATS. 

and pour cold water on them; then wipe dry. Put 
your lard into the spider which should be hot, and fry 
quickly. If fried this way the ham will be red and 
tender. Break the eggs in a cup; the lard should not 
be too hot. Do not put too many in the pan together, 
and dip the hot lard over them; do not turn them as 
they should be kept whole. Lay the ham in the 
centre of the platter and garnish with the eggs. . 

Roast Ham. 

The most delicious way to cook ham is to boil a 
small pig ham in the ordinary way until the skin will 
peel 'off, then stick in cloves over the surface of the 
ham; cover with bread crumbs or cracker dust, place 
in a dripping-pan, raising it a little from the pan by 
sticks and bake three or four hours. 

Another. 

A roasted ham is simply a boiled ham nicely 
browned in a hot oven; therefore thoroughly cook, 
and remove the skin. Have ready some oven-dried 
bread or crackers, of which roll fine, and sift a tea- 
cupful. Break in two eggs, and stir well with two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Use a little water if the 
eggs do not sufficiently moisten it. Spread this 
evenly over the fat, and dress with pepper and spices. 

Ham Croquets. 

Chop the ham fine, and season with pepper or 
mustard. With a little flour in hand make up small 
balls, and dip in beaten Ggg; roll in crumbs of bread 
or cracker, and fry to a light brown in hot lard. 

Ham Toast. 

Melt in a stew-pan a small piece of butter till it is 
browned a little; put in as much finely minced ham 



MEATS. 73 

as will cover a large round of buttered toast, and add 
gravy enough to make it moist. When quite hot stir 
in quickly with a fork one egg. Place the mixture 
over the toast which may be cut in pieces of any shape 
you may fancy. ' 

Rice Hash. 

Chop remnants of fresh meats with salt pork or 
cold ham j» season with salt, pepper, and a little sugar; 
add two eggs and a little butter. Then make alter- 
nate layers with this and slices of cold boiled rice, 
and bake it half an hour. 

Veal Sausage. 

Chop equal quantities of lean veal and fat bacon, a 
handful of sage, a little salt and pepper, and a few 
anchovies. Chop all in a bowl; and when used, roll 
and fry it, and serve it with fried sippets, or on 
stewed vegetables, or on white collops. 

Mutton Sausage. 

Take a pound of rawest part of the leg of mutton 
that has been either roasted or boiled,; chop it very 
fine, and season it with pepper, salt, mace, and nut- 
meg; add to it six ounces of beef-suet, some sweet 
herbs, two anchovies, and a pint of oysters, all chopped 
very fine; a quarter of a pound of grated bread, some 
of the anchovy-liquor, and the yolks and whites of 
two eggs well beaten. Put it all, when well mixed, 
into a little pot, and use it by rolling it into balls. 

Pork Sausage. 

Chop fat and lean pork together; season it, for one 
hundred pounds, with one and three-quarter pounds 
of salt, six ounces of pepper and four ounces of sage, 
and you may add two or three berries of allspice; 



H 



MEATS. 



half fill hog casings that have been soaked and made 
extremely clean; or the meat may be kept in a very 
small pan closely covered; and rolled and dusted 
with a very little flour before it is fried. Serve on 
stewed red cabbage; or mashed potatoes put in a form, 
browned with a salamander, and garnished with the 
above. They must be pricked with a fork before they 
are dressed, or they will burst. 

An Excellent Sausage to Eat Cold. 

Season fat and lean pork with some salt, saltpetre, 
black pepper and allspice, and rub into the meat; the 
sixth day cut it small, and mix with it some shred 
shallot or garlic, as fine as possible. Have ready an 
ox-casing that has been scoured, salted, and soaked 
well, and fill it with the above stuffing; tie up the 
ends, and hang it to smoke as you would hams, but 
first wrap it in a fold or two of old muslin. It must 
be well-dried. Some eat it without boiling, but 
others like it boiled first The skin should be tied in 
different places, so as to make each link about eight 
or nine inches long. 

Salting Beef. 

To one hundred pounds beef put eight pounds fine 
salt, three pounds brown sugar, one-quarter pound 
salt petre. Scald and skim. Keep under cover from 
the air. 

Sausage. 

To one hundred pounds of meat put in one and 
three-quarter pounds salt, six ounces pepper and 
four ounces sage. 



MEATS. 



75 



Force-meat Ingredients. 



Cold fowl, veal or mutton. 
Scraped ham or gammon. 
Fat bacon or the fat of 

ham. 
Beef-suet. 
Veal-suet. 
Butter. 
Marrow. 

Crumbs of bread. 
Parsley. 
White pepper. 
Salt. ^ 

Nutmeg. 
Yolk and white of eggs, 

well beaten to bind the 

mixture. 



Cold sole. 
Oysters. 
Anchovy. 
Lobster. 
Tarragon. 
Savory. 
Pennyroyal. 
Knotted marjoram. 
Thyme and lemon thyme 
Basil. 
Sage. 

Lemon peel. 
Yolks of hard eggs. 
Mace and cloves. 
Cayenne. 
Garlic. 
Shallot. 
Onion. 
Chives. 
Chervil. 

Jamaica pepper in fine 
powder, or two or 
three cloves. 
The first column contains the articles of which the 
forcemeat may be made, without any striking flavor; 
and to those may be added some of the different in- 
gredients of the second column, to vary the taste. 



jjg ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. tftf 



79 ADDITIONAL RECIPES, 




Goose, 




Hare. 




A Roast FozvL 





Partridge. 



Pigeon. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 



To Blanch. 

Put the article to be blanched in cold water over 
the fire, and when it boils up, take it out and plunge 
it into cold water, and there let it remain until thor- 
oughly cold. This gives plumpness and whiteness. 
Tongues, palates, etc., are said to be blanched when, 
after long boiling, the skin can be peeled off; and the 
latter will become thicker by being put into cold 
water as above. 

To Braise. 

Put the meat you would braise into a bright stew- 
pan, and cover it with thick slices of fat pork; then 
lay round it six or eight onions, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, some celery, and if to be brown, some thick 
slices of carrots, and trimmings, or fresh meat bones, 
if you have them, and a pint and a half of water, or 
the same quantity of stock. Over the meat lay a, 
sheet of white paper. According to what the meat is, 
add seasoning. Cover the pan close, and set over a 
slow fire; it will require two or three hours, as its 
size and quality may direct. Then put the meat and 
gravy into a colander to drain, and keep it quite hot; 
skim the gravy carefully, and boil it as quick as you 
can till it thickens; then baste, and if that has been 
larded, put it into the oven for a few minutes. This 



80 POULTRY AND GAME. 

is called glazing, and is much in use for made dishes. 
The glaze should be a clear yellow brown. A glass 
of sherry may be put to it before it is set to 
thicken over the fire. If properly braised and cooked 
slowly and thoroughly, tough meat will become ten- 
der and juicy, but if the cooking is hurried the dish 
will be spoiled. 

To Glaze, Without Braising. 

Fowls or meat may be dressed in any way chosen, 
without pork, and a gravy, boiled to a glaze, basted 
over, as above. Hams, tongues and stewed beef, to 
serve cold, are thus prepared. 

To Force Fowls, Etc., 

Is to stuff any part'with force-meat, and is usually put 
between the skin and the flesh. 

To Lard Meat, Fowls, Sweet-breads, Etc. 

Have ready larding pans of the right sizes, and, 
according to the article to be larded, cut slices of 
pork of the proper length, which put in a dish of 
broken ice to harden. Put a strip of the pork in a 
needle, with which pierce the skin and a very little of 
the meat, and draw underneath the skin. Lard in 
rows. For chicken, turkey, veal or beef, the strips 
should be about as large as a lead pencil, and about 
three or four inches long. For birds, sweet-breads 
and chops, they should be not much larger around 
than a match. 

Dressing for Turkey or Chicken. 

Grate stale white bread fine or use powdered 
crackers, and mix with it butter, pepper, salt, thyme, 
summer savory and sweet marjoram; wet with cold 



POULTRY AND GAME. 81 

milk; add the beaten yolks of two eggs. If preferred, 
one dozen finely-chopped oysters may be added. 
Stuff the craw of the fowl, tie a string tightly around 
its neck to prevent the escape of the stuffing; then fill 
the body and sew it up with strong thread. The 
stitches should be cut and the neck untied before 
serving. 

Dressing for Duck, Goose and Sucking Pig. 

Follow closely the above directions, and substitute 
onions and sage for thyme and marjoram. 

Boiled Turkey — No. 1. 

Prepare your turkey as for roasting; put it in 
a cloth, and boil it slowly; if from eight to nine 
pounds, an hour and a half. Throw into the water a 
few cloves, a little black pepper, sweet marjoram and 
salt. It is to be served with oysters. Skim the turkey 
well while boiling, or it will not be white. 

Boiled Turkey — No. 2. 

If a boiled turkey is not well managed it will be 
quite tasteless. Choose a hen turkey. It must be 
well trussed and tied. Cut the legs at the first joint 
and draw them into the body. Fasten the small ends 
of the wings under the back, and tie them securely 
with strong twine. Sprinkle over plenty of salt and 
pepper and lemon-juice, and put it into boiling 
water. Boil it slowly two hours, or until quite ten- 
der. It is often served in a bed of rice with oysters; 
sometimes with caper-sauce, celery sauce and Hollan- 
dain sauce. Pour part of the sauce over the turkey. 
Reserve the giblets for giblet soup. It can be stuffed 
or not, the same as for roasting. 



82 poultry and game. 

Baltimore Turkey. 

Take out the breast bone and cut off the legs — not 
the thigh part — of a small, fat turkey. Clean it thor- 
oughly and fill the inside with oysters; sew it up and 
lay in a floured cloth; place it in cold water, and boil 
one hour and a half, very slowly; take it out, lay on 
a dish, and draw out the thread with which the turkey 
was sewed. Make a jelly of calf's feet, without 
sugar, but flavored wuth lemon and wine; when cool, 
but not cold, pour over the turkey and set it aside to 
jelly. Serve with celery. 

Deviled Turkey. 

On the rump, gizzard and one leg put salt and 
cayenne pepper. Let them be broiled and brought 
to the table as hot as possible. Cut them in small 
pieces and pour over a ladle of mustard, a ladle of 
melted butter, a spoonful of soy, a spoonful of lemon- 
juice and some of the gravy out of the dish; mix 
quickly and serve. 

To Boil Fowls. 

Flour them and rub in salt, and put into boiling 
water. Simmer gently until tender. Choose those 
that are not black-legged for boiling. Serve with 
parsley and butter, oyster, lemon, liver or celery 
sauce. If for dinner, ham, tongue or bacon is usually 
served with them; as likewise greens or young cab- 
bages. 

To Stew a Fowl with Rice. 

Stew the fowl very slowly in some clear mutton 
broth, well skimmed, and seasoned with onion, mace^ 
pepper and salt. About half an hour before it is 
ready put in a quarter of a pint of rice, well washed 



POULTRY AND GAME. 83 

and soaked. Simmer till tender; then strain it from 
the broth, and put the rice on a sieve before the fire. 
Keep the fowl hot and lay it in the middle of the 
dish, with the rice round it, without the broth. The 
broth will be very nice to eat as such; but the less 
liquor used in cooking the better. Gravy or parsley 
and butter for sauce. 

Broiled Spring Chicken. 

Pick and wash the fowl and split it down the back; 
crack the breast bone and flatten the chicken; make 
a small incision in each side and insert the legs; sea- 
son with salt and pepper; lay it in a broiler and put 
it over bright coals; or put it in a pan and set it in 
front of the grate with a bright fire; broil a half or 
three-quarters of an hour, turning it frequently; 
when done, baste with butter and serve on buttered 
toast. 

Chicken and Cream. 

One pair of chickens; joint them; wash the pieces 
in cold water; dry them in a cloth; roll them or pat 
them in fine bread crumbs. Take a pint of cream or 
milk, chop a quantity of parsley very fine; add it to 
the cream, with a little salt and pepper. Fry the 
chicken in butter; when done, lay the pieces on a 
hot dish; then pour the prepared cream slowly into 
the frying-pan, stirring quickly; when all in, and well 
done, turn the cream over the chicken. 

Baked Spring Chicken. 

Cut them open at the back and spread them out in 
a baking pan; sprinkle on plenty of pepper, salt and 
a little flour. Baste them well with hot water, which 
should be in the bottom of the pan: also at different 



84 POULTRY AND GAME. 

times with a little butter. When done, rub butter 
over them, as you would beefsteak, and set them in 
the oven for a moment before serving. 

Chicken, a la Mode. 

Pick and draw a fine young chicken; wash and 
wipe dry and season with salt and pepper. Make a 
nice pastry and roll out an inch thick; wrap the 
chicken in it; tie in a cloth, and boil an hour or two, 
according to the tenderness of the fowl. Make a 
dressing of one tablespoonful of flour, one of butter, 
and sufficient boiling water to make a smooth paste. 
Place the chicken on a dish, and pour the dressing 
over it; garnish with parsley or celery leaves and a 
hard boiled egg cut in slices. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

One pound of finely-chopped cooked chicken; sea- 
son with one-half teaspoonf ul of pepper, one-half table- 
spoonful of salt, one-half tablespoonful of butter, mix 
with this one egg and nearly half a pint of cream, a 
little lemon juice and one-half a teaspoonful of onion 
juice; have the board lightly sprinkled with fine 
cracker crumbs and roll the croquettes until they are 
shaped in the form of little cylinders; when they are 
so shaped, beat the eggs light and cover the croquettes 
with it; now have the board thickly covered with 
cracker crumbs and roll the egg-covered croquettes in 
these; fry in a croquette basket in boiling fat until a 
light brown. Instead of cream, chicken stock may be 
used. Veal, mutton, lamb and turkey croquettes may 
be thus prepared. 

To Roast a Fowl or Chicken. 

Have a bright, clear and steady fire for roasting 
poultry; split it, put a pint of hot water in the drip- 



POULTRY AND GAME. 85 

ping-pan, add to it a small tablespoonlul of salt, and 
a small teaspoonful of pepper; baste frequently, 
and let it roast quickly, without scorching; when 
nearly done, put a piece of butter the size of a large 
egg to the water in the pan; when it melts, taste with 
it, dredge a little flour over, baste again, and let it 
finish; half an hour will roast a full-grown chicken, 
if the fire is right. When done, take it up, let the 
giblets (heart, liver and gizzard) boil tender, and 
chop them very fine, and put them in the gravy, add 
a tablespoonful of browned flour and a bit of butter; 
stir it over the fire for a few minutes, then serve in a 
gravy -tureen; or put the giblets in a pan and let them 
roast. 

Roast Poultry. 
When thoroughly picked and cleaned rub the in- 
side of the fowl with salt; then make a dressing with 
bread or crackers; season to the taste with butter, 
pepper and salt, to which a little salt pork n.ay be 
added, chopped fine, and wet up until quite moist 
with one egg and milk; fill the fowl with this dress- 
ing and sew up; tie down the legs and wings; place 
in a dripping-pan with a teacupful of salted water, 
having previously rubbed the outside of the fowl with 
salt and dredged it with flour; lumps of butter should 
be placed on the fowl and thin slices of salt pork 
tucked under the wings; bake from three to five 
hours in a moderate oven, basting often; when done, 
remove the fowl; thicken the gravy wuth brown flour 
and strain. Some prefer the giblets chopped fine and 
added to the gravy. Parsley or thyme may be used 
for garnishing roast meats. 

Chicken Pot-pie. 
Take a full-grown chicken or fowl; cut it as for 
stewing or'pie; rinse it in cold water, and put it in a 



86 POULTRY AND GAME. • 

Stew-pan with hot water to cover it; add half a pound 
of salt pork, cut in thin slices if liked, or a large tea- 
spoonful of salt; let it boil gently for half an hour, 
unless it be a young chicken, when it need not be par- 
boiled; take off the scum; make a pie or pot-pie 
crust; make it rather more than half an inch thick; line 
the sides only of a dinner-pot (if it extends too low 
down, it will burn); put the meat i»n the bottom; take 
a piece of butter the size of a large egg and cu* it in 
small bits; put it over the meat; not half as much but- 
ter will be required if pork is used; dredge it white 
with flour; put in the w^ater from the stew-pan, and, 
if it does not reach nearly to the top of the crust, add 
more hot water; lay skewers across the top; roll out 
the paste; reserve enough to cover the pie; cut the 
remainder in small squares, and drop them in the^pie; 
then put on the top crust; cut a slit in the centre and 
cover the pot. Set it over a moderate fire, to boil 
gently for three-quarters of an hour; then take a fork 
and try the top-crust; if it is done, take the pie up. 
The side-crust should be four or five inches wider, and, 
if a large pie, reach nearly to the top of the pot, that 
there may be plenty of gravy. 

Chicken Short Cakes. 

Cut the chicken up, put it in a pan; and cover it 
over with water; let it stew as usual, and when done 
make a thickening of cream and flour, adding a piece 
of butter, and pepper and salt; have made and baked 
a pair of short-cakes, made as for pie-crust, but roll 
thin and cut in small squares. This is much better 
than chicken pie, and more simple to make. The 
crusts should be laid on a dish, and the chicken gravy 
put over it while both are hot. 



poultry and game. 87 

Fricassee of Chickens. 

Rather more than half boil in a small quantity of 
water; let cool, and then cut up and put to simmer in 
a little gravy made of the liquor in which they afe 
boiled, and a bit of veal or mutton, onion, mace and 
lemon peel, some white pepper and a bunch of sweet 
herbs. When tender, keep hot while you thicken the 
sauce, as follows: Strain it oif and put it into the 
sauce-pan with a little salt, nutmeg and a little flour 
and butter. Give it one boil, and when you are going 
to serve, beat up the yolk of an egg, add half a pint 
of cream, and stir over the fire, but do not boil. The 
gravy may be made of the necks, feet, small wing 
bones, gizzards and livers. 

To Braise Chickens. 

Bone and fill them with force-meat. Lay the bones 
and other poultry trimmings into a stew-pan; on 
them put the chickens; add a few onions, a bunch of 
herbs, three blades of mace, a pint of stock and a 
glass of sherry. Cover the chickens with slices of 
pork, and then white paper. Then cover the whole 
close, and put over a slow fire for two hours. Take 
up, strain and braise, and skim off the fat carefully. 
Set it on to boil very quick, to a glaze, and baste. 
Serve with a brown fricassee of mushrooms. Before 
glazing put the chickens into an oven a few minutes 
to give a good color. 

To Roast Wild Fowls. 

The flavor is best preserved without stuffing. Put 
pepper, salt and a piece of butter into each. Wild 
fowls require much less dressing than tame, and 
should be served in a fine color A rich brown gravy 
should be sent in the dish, and when the breast is cut 



88 POULTRY AND GAME. 

into slices, before taking off the bone, a little lemon 
with pepper and salt added, is a great improvement to 
the flavor. To take off the fishy taste, which wild 
iowls usually have, put an onion, salt, and hot water 
in the dripping-pan, with this baste them for the first 
ten minutes; then take away the pan and baste con- 
stantly with butter. 

Wild Ducks, Teal, Widgeons, Dun-Birds, Etc., 

Should be taken up wnth the gravy in. Baste them 
with butter, and sprinkle on a little salt before they 
are taken up; put a good gravy upon them, and serve 
with shallot sauce in a boat. 

To Pull Chickens. 

Take off the skin, and pull the flesh off the bone of 
a cold fowl, in as large pieces as you can; dredge it 
with flour, and fry it a nice brown in good butter. 
Drain the butter from it, and then simmer the flesh in 
a good gravy, well-seasoned, and thickened with a lit- 
tle flour and butter. Add the juice of half a lemon. 

Broiled Ouails. 

Clean, wash and split down the back. Lay in cold 
water half an hour. Wipe carefully, season with salt 
and pepper, and broil on a gridiron over a bright fire. 
When done, lay in a hot dish, butter on both sides 
well, and serve at once. 

Pigeons, woodcock and small birds may be broiled 
in the same manner and are delicious and nourishing 
fare for invalids. 

Quail Pie. 

Clean, truss and stuff the birds. Loosen the joints 
with a penknife, but do not separate them. Parboil 



POULTRY AND GAME. &9 

them for ten minutes. Line a deep dish with pufif- 
paste, put in the bottom some shreds of salt pork; 
next, a layer of hard-boiled eggs, buttered and pep- 
pered; then the birds, sprinkled with pepper and 
minced parsley. Squeeze some lemon juice upon 
them, and lay upon the breasts pieces of butter rolled 
in flour. Cover with slices of egg, then with shreds 
of pork; pour in some of the gravy in which the 
quails were parboiled, and put on the upper crust, 
leaving a hole in the middle. Bake over an hour. 

Stewed Pigeons. 

Clean the pigeons and cut them in quarters; put 
them with their giblets into a stew-pan, with a little 
water salted; season well with salpicant and butter; 
cover the pan closely, and stew until tender. Thicken 
the gravy with the yolk of an egg beaten with three 
tablespoonfuls of milk, and a little butter rolled in 
flour. 

Pigeon Pie 

May be made the same as quail pie, except that the 
pigeons are cut into four pieces each, and not stuffed. 
Parboil and lay in the dish in alternate layers with 
the pork and boiled eggs. Make the gravy richer 
than for quails. 

Roast Pigeons 

Should be stuffed with parsley, either cut or whole, 
and seasoned within; serve with parsley and butter. 
Peas or asparagus should be dressed to serve with 
them. 

Pigeons left from dinner may be either stewed ten 
minutes in a good gravy with force-meat balls ready 
fried, or made into a pie. If the latter, let a beef- 
steak be stewed tender in a little water, and put both 



90 POULTRY AND GAME. 

at the bottom of the dish, the pigeons next, and cover 
them with a piece of fat pork to keep them moist; 
season as usual, and add the yolks of eggs boiled 
hard. The crust in this case must be thin, that it may 
not require long baking. 

Broiled Pigeons. 

After cleaning, split down the backs, pepper and 
salt them and broil very nicely; pour over them 
either stewed or pickled mushrooms in melted butter, 
and serve as hot as possible. 

Roasted Ducks. 

Stuff one with sage and onion, a dessert-spoonful 
of crumbs, a bit of butter, and pepper and salt; let the 
other be unseasoned. They should be well done and 
served with a rich gravy in the dish. 

Boiled Ducks. 

Choose a fine, fat duck; salt it two days; then boil 
it slowly in a cloth. Serve it with onion sauce, but 
melt the butter with milk, instead of water. 

Roast Snipe. 

Clean and truss, but do not stuff. Lay in rows in the 
dripping-pan; sprinkle with salt, and baste well with 
batter, then with butter and water. When they begin 
to brown, cut as many slices of bread as there are 
birds. Toast quickly, butter, and lay in the dripping- 
pan, a bird upon each. When the birds are done, 
serve upon the toast, with the gravy poured over it. 
The toast should lie under them while cooking at 
least five minutes, during which time the birds should 
be basted with melted butter seasoned with pepper. 
The largest snipe will not require above twenty min- 



POULTRY AND GAME. 91 

utes to roast. Another way is to dip an oyster in 
melted butter, then in bread crumbs, seasoned with 
pepper and salt, and put in each bird before roasting. 
Small birds are very nice cooked in this way 

Grouse. 

Roast them like fowls, with the head twisted under 
the wing. They must not be overdone. Serve with 
a rich gravy in a dish, and bread sauce. Garnish 
with parsley. 

Baked Rabbit. 

Skin the rabbit and let it be extremely well washed; 
then soak it an hour or two in water, and, if old, lard 
it, which will make it tender. Give it a large, relish- 
ing stufting and then sew it up. Baste it well with 
milk till half done, and afterwards with butter. If 
the blood has settled in the neck, soak the part in 
warm water and prick the skin here and there with a 
knife, which will remove it. Serve with a rich gravy, 
melted butter and currant jelly sauce. For the stuff- 
ing use the liver, an anchovy, some fat pork, a little 
suet, herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, a small onion, 
crumbs of bread or cracker dust, and an egg to bind 
it all. The ears must be nicely cleaned and singed 
and made crisp. They are a dainty. 

Fricasseed Rabbit. 

After skinning and cleaning, cut up the rabbit, and 
season it with pepper, salt, allspice, mace and a little 
nutmeg; put it into a jar with an onion, a clove or 
two, a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of coarse beef 
and the carcass bones over all. Put the jar into a 
saucepan of water up to the neck, but no higher; tie 
it down. Keep the water boiling five hours. When 



92 POULTRY AND GAME. 

it is to be served, boil the gravy up with a piece of 
butter and flour, and if the meat gets cold, warm it in 
this, but not to a boil. Force-meat balls may be 
served, if desired, but are not necessary. 

To Pot Rabbits. 

Cut up two or three young, but full-grown rabbits; 
take the leg-bones off at the thigh, and pack them as 
closely as possible in a small pan, after seasoning 
them with mace, cayenne pepper, salt and allspice. 
Make the top as smooth as you can. Keep 
out the heads and the carcasses, but take off the 
meat about the neck. Use a good supply of butter, 
and bake the whole gently. Keep it two days in the 
pan; then put it into small pots, adding butter. The 
livers should also be added. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 93 



g^ ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



Sauces and Dressings for Meats and Fish. 



Gravies. 



Gravy may be made quite as good of the skirts of 
beef and the kidneys as of any other part of the 
meat. Ox kidney or milt makes a good gravy, which 
should be finely cut and prepared as other meat gra- 
vies. Shank bones of mutton add greatly to the 
richness of the gravy, but must be first soaked well 
and scoured clean. Tarragon gives the flavor of 
French cookery, and in high gravies is a great im- 
provement; but it should be added only a short time 
before serving. 

To Dress Gravy that will Keep a Week. 

Cut lean beef thin, put it into a frying-pan without 
any butter, and set it on the fire covered, but take 
care it does not burn; let it stay till all the gravy that 
comes out of the meat is dried up into it again; put 
as muctj water as will cover the meat, and let that 
stew away. Then put to the meat a small quantity of 
water, herbs, onions, spice, and a bit of lean ham; 
simmer till it is rich, and keep it in a cool place. Do 
not take off the fat till it is to be used. 

Clear Gravy. 

Slice beef thin; broil a part of it over a very clear, 
quick fire, just enough to give color to the gravy, but 



90 SAUCES AND DRESSINGS 

not to dress it; put that and the raw into a stew-pan, 
with two onions, a clove or two, whole black peppers, 
berries of allspice and a bClnch of sweet herbs; cover 
it with hot water, give it one boil, and skim it well 
two or three times; th^n cover it and simmer till quite 
strong. 

Drawn Butter Sauce. 
Take six tablespoonfuls of butter, half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of flour or fine bread 
crumbs worked into the butter, and one teacupful of 
hot water; heat very hot, but do not let it boil. Two 
hard boiled and chopped eggs imprt)ve it much. For 
fish, add atablespoonful of vinegar and chopped capers 
or green nasturtium seeds. 

Worcestershire Sauce. 
Ten peppers, one large onion, twenty-four ripe to- 
matoes, two tablespoonfuls salt, one teaspoonful each 
of allspice, nutmeg, ginger and cloves, one quart 
vinegar; chop peppers, onions and tomatoes fine, and 
let all simmer two hours. 

Anchovy Sauce — No. 1. 
To half a pint of drawn butter add three table- 
spoonfuls of essence of anchovy, a teaspoonful of 
lemon extract; salt and pepper; boil up at once, and 
serve with baked or boiled fish. 

Anchovy Sauce — No. 2. 
Soak some anchovies in a basin of cold water for 
two or three hours; then put them in a stew-pan with 
cold water, and set them on coals to simmer until the 
anchovies are dissolved; then strain the water, add to 
it a wineglass of red wine and half a pint of melted 
butter; let it simmer for quarter of an hour; then 
serve with boiled fish or meat. 



for meats and fish. 97 

Shallot Sauce. 

Take half a pint of water in which meat has been 
boiled, add a wineglass of vinegar and two or three 
shallots, cut line, and half a teaspoonful of salt; put 
these into a saucepan over the fire; work a teaspoon- 
ful of flour into a piece of butter the size of an egg, 
and stir them into the hot water, and let them simmer 
for fifteen minutes. Serve with boiled meat. 

Chutney Sauce. 

Four dozen large ripe tomatoes, six green peppers, 
eight onions, four tablespoonfuls each of sugar, salt 
and mustard, three tablespoonfuls each of cloves and 
black pepper, one quart vinegar; chop the onions and 
peppers and cut the tomatoes; then boil all together 
for two hours; strain through a sieve. Add, lastly, 
just before bottling, one bottle of Worcestershire 
sauce^ 

Celery Sauce. 

Make a drawn butter of the broth from the meat of 
fowls, and season with celery salt. Serve with boiled 
meats or fowls. 

Onion Sauce. 

Peel six or seven good-sized onions and boil ten- 
der; drain and chop fine; heat one pint of milk in a 
saucepan, and add one tablespoonful of flour and two 
of butter; stir in the onions and season with salt and 
pepper; boil a few minutes and serve with roast pork. 

An Excellent Currie Powder. 

Reduce to the finest powder six ounces and a half 
of coriander seeds, one ounce and a half of cumin 
seeds, a quarter of an ounce of cardamom seeds, 
three ounces of turmeric, and half an ounce of 



98 SAUCES AND DRESSING 

ginger, after being cleared of the outsides. Put each 
before the fire to dry; then mix thoroughly. When 
quite cold, put together twenty drops of oil of cinna- 
mon, ten drops of oil of cloves, and ten drops of oil 
of nutmeg; and, mixing them well, rub by degrees 
the whole of the powder in a mortar. Keep it in 
tightly corked bottles, each containing enough for 
twice using. 

Lobster Sauce. 

Pound the spawn and two anchovies; pour on them 
two spoonfuls of gravy; strain all into some melted 
butter; then put in the meat of the lobster; give it all 
one boil, and add a squeeze of lemon. 

A Very Good Sauce for Boiled Chickens. 

Take the heads and necks, with a small bit of the 
scrag of veal or mutton; put them into a saucepan 
with two blades of mace, a few white peppercorns, an 
anchovy, a head of celery sliced, a bunch of sweet 
herbs and a small piece of lemon peel. Boil these in 
a quart of water to half a pint. Strain, and thicken 
it with a quarter of a pound of butter and some flour; 
boil it five minutes; and then put in two teaspoon- 
fuls of mushrooms; having beaten up the yolks of 
two eggs with a teacup of cream, put it into your 
sauce and keep shaking it one way over the fire till it 
is near boiling; then put it into a sauce-tureen. 

Bread Sauce for Fowl or Fish. 

Boil a large onion, cut into quarters, with some 
black peppers and milk, till the onion is quite soft; 
pour the milk, strained, on grated white stale bread, 
and cover it. In an hour put it into a saucepan with 
a piece of butter mixed with a little flour; boil the 
whole up together and serve. 



for meats and fish. 99 

Caper-sauce for Mutton. 

Work two tablespoonfuls of flour into a piece of 
butter the size of an egg; into this stir one pint of 
boiling milk; add your capers, cut once in two; let it 
boil up and then serve in a tureen. 

Mint Sauce for Lamb. 
Take fresh mint, wash and chop very fine, and put 
into your gravy boat; over this pour good cider vine- 
gar, and sweeten to taste with white sugar. 

Tomato Sauce. 
Gather your tomatoes when fully ripe, and, after 
washing them, mash them in some suitable vessel; 
then place them in a kettle over a moderate fire, and 
when just warmed through, press a colander down 
upon them; then dip from the colander all the watery 
juice possible. After boiling a short time, strain the 
mass through a wire sieve just fine enough to re- 
tain the rind of the fruit; then return it to the kettle, 
and boil it down to the desired consistency (some 
prefer it thin, as it retains more of the flavor), taking 
care that it does not become scorched in the process. 
Heat the bottles you intend to use, in a steamer, to 
boiling heat, and while they retain this heat fill them 
with sauce in a boiling state; then cork them imme- 
diately with good corks, and place them where they 
will cool slowly. Tomatoes thus prepared will keep 
good, and retain all their original freshness and fla- 
vor throughout the entire season. 

Horseradish Sauce. 
Two tablespoonfuls of mustard, the same of vine- 
gar, three tablespoonfuls of cream or milk, and 
one of pounded white sugar, well beaten up together 
with a small quantity of grated horseradish. This is, 
of course, to be served cold. 



100 sauces and dressings 

Oyster Sauce for Turkeys, Etc. 
Strain fifty oysters; put the juice into a saucepan 
and add one pint of new milk; let it simmer, and 
skim off any froth which may arise; then rub a large 
spoonful of flour and two of butter together; stir this 
into the liquor; add a little salt and pepper. Let it 
simmer five minutes, but do not add your oysters till 
just as they are to be sent to the table, as, if they are 
cooked too much, they are hard. 

Oyster Sauce. 
Save the liquor in opening the oysters, and boil it 
with the beards, a bit of mace and lemon peel. In 
the meantime throw the oysters i^to cold water, and 
drain it off. Strain the liquor, and put it into a sauce- 
pan with them, and as much butter, mixed with a lit- 
tle milk, as will make sauce enough; but first rub a 
little flour with it. Set them over the fire and stir 
constantly, and when the butter has boiled once or 
twice, take them off, and keep the saucepan near the 
fire, but not on it; for if done too much the oysters 
will be hard. Add a little lemon juice and serve. 

Trout in White Sauce. 
Boil the fish gently in as much water and light 
white wine, in equal quantities, as will only cover 
them; keep them hot, when done, while you boil the 
liquor with a bit of butter and a little flour. Mean- 
time have ready beaten two eggs, with a spoonful of 
cold water, and pour them and the sauce to and fro 
at a little distance above the stove, till they are of due 
thickness; serve the fish in it, adding a little salt. 

Trout in Green Sauce. 
Chop quite fine half an anchovy, a tablespoonful 
of capers, one each of chives and parsley, previously 



FOR MEATS AND FISH. 101 

minced, a good lump of butter and a dessert-spoonful 
of flour. When the trout is ready, keep it hot while 
this mixture is boiled with the liquor, in which 
serve it. 

Mushroom Sauce for Fowls or Rabbits. 

Wash and pick a pint of young mushrooms and 
rub them with salt to take off the tender skin. Put 
them in a saucepan with a little sauce, some nutmeg, 
a blade of mace, a pint of cream, and a good piece of 
butter rubbed in flour. Boil them up, and stir them 
till done; then pour it around the chickens, etc.; gar- 
nish with lemon. If you cannot get fresh mushrooms, 
use white pickled ones, with a mushroom powder 
withoflt cream. 

GiBLET Gravy. 

Take the livers, gizzards and hearts from fowls; 
boil very tender and chop fine; make a nice thin, 
drawn butter sauce of the water in which they were 
boiled and stir in; season with pepper and salt. 

Lemon White Sauce for Boiled Fowls. 

Put the peel of a small lemon, cut very thin, into a 
pint of sweet, rich cream, with a sprig of lemon 
thyme and ten white peppercorns. Simmer gently 
till it tastes well of the lemon and strain it; thicken it 
with a quarter of a pound of butter, and a dessert- 
spoonful of flour rubbed in it. Boil it up; then pour 
the juice of the strained lemon into it, stirring it well. 

Sauce for Wild Fowls. 

Simmer a teacupful of port wine, the same quantity 
of good meat gravy, a little shallot, a little pepper, 
salt, a grate of nutmeg, and a bit of mace, for ten mm- 



102 SAUCES AND DRESSINGS 

utes; put in a bit of butter and flour, give it all one 
boil, and pour it through the birds. In general, they 
are not stuffed, but may be done so if liked. 

Another for the Same, or for Ducks. 

Serve a rich gravy in the dish; cut the breast into 
slices, but do not take them off; cut a lemon, and put 
pepper and salt on it; then squeeze it on the breast, 
and pour a spoonful of gravy over it before you serve. 

Veal Gravy. 

When all the meat has been taken from a knuckle 
of veal, divide the bones, and lay them, and a pound 
of the scrag of a neck, in a stew-pot; and, if you like 
it, an ounce of lean bacon, a bunch of parsley, a little 
thyme, a bit of lemon peel and a dessert-spoonful of 
pepper; add as much water as will cover them. Boil 
and skim it nicely; cover the pot down close, and let 
it simmer as slowly as possible three hours. Strain 
off, and let it stand till cold; then skim it, and take 
the jelly from the sediment. 

CuLLis, OR Brown Gravy. 

Lay over the bottom of a stew-pan as much lean 
veal as will cover it an inch thick; then cover the 
veal with thin slices of undressed gammon, two or 
three onions, two or three bay-leaves, some sweet 
herbs, two blades of mace and three cloves. Cover 
the stew-pan, and set it over a slow fire; but when the 
juices come out let the fire be a little quicker. When 
the meat is of a fine brown, fill the pan with good 
beef broth, boil and skim it, then simmer an hour; add 
a little water, mixed with as much flour as will make 
it properly thick; boil it half an hour, and strain it 
This will keep a week. 



for meats and fish. 103 

Bechamel, or White Gravy. 

Cut lean veal into small slices, and the same quan- 
tity of lean bacon or ham; put them into a stew-pan 
with a good piece of butter, an onion, a blade of 
mace, a few mushroom-buttons, a bit of thyme and a 
bay-leaf; fry the whole over a very slow fire, but not 
to brown it; thicken it with flour. Add an equal quan- 
tity of good veal or mutton broth, and cream. Let it 
boil gently one hour, stirring it all the time; strain it 
through a soup-strainer. 

Apple Sauce for Pork. 

Take sour apples, pare, core and quarter; put them 
in an earthen dish with just enough water to make a 
steam; when done mash through a colander; add a 
little butter; it should be as firm as potatoes; serve 
on the plate like potatoes. 

A Cheap and Good Gravy. 

Fry three onions in butter a nice brown; toast a 
large slice of bread till quite hard, and very brown, 
but not burnt. Set these, and any bit of meat, 
or bone of a leg of mutton, etc., and some herbs, 
on the fire, with water in proportion, and stew till the 
gravy is thick and rich; add salt and pepper; strain 
off, and keep cool. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Put the uncooked yolk of an egg on a cold platter; 
beat well with a silver fork; add a small salt-spoon- 
ful of mustard powder, and two salt-spoonfuls of 
salt; work them well a minute before adding the oil; 
then mix in a little good oil, which must be poured in 
very slowly— a few drops at a time; alternate occa- 
sionally with a few drops of vinee:ar. 



104 sauces and dressings. 

Dressing for Sandwiches. 

One-half pound of nice butter, two tablespoonfuls 
of mixed mustard, three tablespoonfuls of salad oil, 
a little red or white pepper, a little salt, yolk of an 
egg; rub the butter to a cream, add the other ingre- 
dients and mix thoroughly; set away to cool; spread 
the bread with this mixture and put in the ham, 
chopped fine. 

Curry Balls. 

Take some breadcrumbs, hard-boiled eggs (grated), 
butter and curry powder; pound the whole in a mor- 
tar, and moisten with the yolk of an egg, well 
beaten. Make into balls, and add them to stewed 
chicken or rabbit about five minutes before serving. 

Vinaigrette, for Cold Fowl or Meat. 

Chop mint, parsley, and shallot, mix with salt, oil 
and vinegar. Serve in a boat. 

Benton Sauce, for Hot or Cold Roast Beef. 

Grate, or scrape very fine, some horseradish, a lit- 
tle made mustard, some pounded white sugar, and 
four large spoonfuls of vinegar. Serve in a saucer. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 105 



2Qg ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



SALADS 



Chicken Salad — No. 1. 

Boil a young, tender chicken, and when cold sepa- 
rate the meat from the bones; cut it into little square 
blocks or dice; do not mince ft. Cut white tender stalks 
of celery into about three-quarter inch lengths, saving 
the outside green stalks for soup; mix the chicken 
and celery together, and then stir well into them a 
mixture in the proportion of three tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar to one tablespoonful of oil, with pepper, salt, 
and a little mustard to taste. Put this aside for an 
hour or two, or until just before serving; this is 
called marinating the chicken; it will absorb the vine- 
gar. When about to serve, mix the celery and chicken 
with a Mayonnaise sauce, leaving a portion of the 
sauce to mask the top. Reserve several fresh ends or 
leaves of celery with which to garnish the dish. Stick 
a little boquet of these tops in the centre of the 
salad, then "a row around it. From the centre to each 
of the four sides sprinkle rows of capers. Sometimes 
slices or little cut diamonds of hard-boiled eggs are 
used for garnishing. Chicken salad is often made 
with lettuce instead of celery. Marinate the chicken 
alone; add it to the small tender leaves (uncut) of the 
lettuce the last moment before serving; then pour 
Mayonnaise dressing over the top. Garnish with lit- 



108 SALADS. 

tie centre heads of lettuce, capers, cold chopped red- 
beets, if you choose, or sliced hard-boiled eggs. 
Sometimes little strips of anchovy are added for a 
garnish. When on the table it should all be mixed 
together. Many may profit by this recipe for chicken 
salad; for it is astonishing how few understand mak- 
ing so common a dish, it is generally minced and 
mixed with hard-boiled eggs for a dressing. 

Chicken Salad — No. 2. 

To the whole of a boiled chicken add half its weight 
in finely-chopped celery, two hard-boiled eggs, one 
raw egg, three tablespoonfuls salt, pepper and made 
mustard, three teaspoonfuls salad oil, two teaspoon- 
fuls of white sugar, and twelve teaspoonfuls of vine- 
gar. Pour on the vinegar when ready to serve. 

Cabbage and Celery Salad. 

One-quarter head of cabbage, two bunches celery; 
chop very fine; add pepper and salt to one-half cup 
vinegar, two teaspoonfuls sugar, one teaspoonful 
cream, one teaspoonful mustard, one tablespoonful 
butter. Heat the dressing and mix with cabbage and 
celery; into this chop two hard-boiled eggs. 

Cabbage Salad — No. 1. 

Take one teacupful of sour cream that has no bit- 
ter taste, and beat into it two raw eggs; half a tea- 
spoonful of raw mustard, rubbed smooth in cold 
vinegar; two-thirds of a teaspoonful of salt and a 
dash of pepper; put upon the stove or range and let 
it boil up, stirring it as soon as it begins to boil, to 
prevent the eggs from curdling; when thick as cus- 
tard, take from the fire; add half a teacupful of strong 
vinegar, with a teaspoonful of mustard into it, let it 



SALADS, 109 

cool, turn it over a dish of finely-chopped raw cab- 
bage, and see if you have not a dainty dish to go with 
the Sunday's dinner of cold meat. 

Cabbage Salad — No. 2. 

One cup vinegar, one teaspoonful white mustard 
seed, one tablespoonful butter, one beaten egg; shred 
the cabbage into slender strips, season with salt, pep- 
per and the mustard seed. Heat the vinegar hot; add 
the butter and beaten egg and pour over the cabbage. 

Cream Cabbage. 

Cup milk, butter size walnut; one egg, three table- 
spoonfuls vinegar, teaspoonful dry mustard; pepper 
and salt to taste; chop raw cabbage fine; cook sauce 
(except vinegar, have that cold) and pour over cab- 
bage. 

Dressing for Cabbage. 

Beat one egg and a small piece of butter; stir in 
vinegar; boil until it thickens; pour over the chop- 
ped cabbage; salt and pepper. 

Cold Slaw. 

Fill a dish with cabbage cut up fine; make a dress- 
ing of the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, two table- 
spoonfuls of mixed mustard, one tablespoonful of 
sugar, and one teaspoonful of salt, and a little pep- 
per, one-fourth of a pound of butter, one teacupful of 
cream; mix these ingredients thoroughly and boil a 
few minutes, having previously added half a teacup- 
ful of vinegar; after boiling pour over the cabbage 
while hot. 

Potato Salad. 

Boil four potatoes, let them get cold, peel and slice. 
Put a layer of sliced potatoes on a platter, add a small 



110 SALADS. 

onion cut fine and a very little chopped celery, also a 
few capers. Cover with Mayonnaise dressing. 

Lobster Salad — No. 1. 

Four pounds chopped lobster, one-half bunch 
chopped celery; prepare a sauce of one cup vinegar, 
one teaspoonful mustard, one-half teaspoonful pep- 
per, one-half teaspoonful salt, three tablespoonfuls 
melted butter. Pour this over the lobster and celery. 

Lobster Salad — No. 2. 

Make a salad and put some of the red part of the 
lobster to it. This forms a pretty contrast to the 
white and green of the vegetables. Do not use much 
oil, as shell fish absorbs the sharpness of vinegar. 
Serve in a dish, not a bowl. 

Where salads are constantly used, if the ingredients 
are kept ready, much time and trouble will be saved. 

The following proportions make a most excellent 
salad: 

Four mustard-ladles of mustard. 

Four salt-ladles of salt. 

Three dessert-spoonfuls of essence of anchovies. 

Four dessert-spoonfuls of the best mushroom catsup. 

Three dessert-spoonfuls of the best sweet oil. 

Twelve dessert-spoonfuls of vinegar. 

The yolks of three eggs boiled hard. 

When the salad vegetables are cleaned and put into 
a dish, pour over them a sufficient quantity of the 
above, and stir it well. 

Ham Salad. 

Line your dish thickly with lettuce-leaves, and fill 
centre with cold boiled ham, chopped. Add an equal 
quantity of finely-chopped celery, if that be preferred 



SALADS. Ill 

or more convenient than lettuce. This should be 
dressed with the following sauce: On one teaspoon- 
ful of mustard drop the yolk of one egg, adding one- 
fourth of a spoonful of salt; mix and beat very thor- 
oughly, adding gradually a generous tablespoonful 
of fine olive oil or melted butter; keep up a vigorous 
beating, and pour in, a little at a time, a tablespoon- 
ful of vinegar. This sauce should be used at once 
and its success depends entirely upon its being thor- 
oughly beaten. The salad may also be dressed with 
cucumber and beet pickles sliced fine with olives. 

Beef Salad. 

One cup beef, chopped fine, three hard-boiled eggs," 
chopped fine, one dessert-spoonful of mustard, tea- 
spoonful oil, a little salt, red and black pepper and 
enough vinegar to make it pack nicely. Set in a cold 
place till ready to use, then turn into another dish. 

French Salad. 

Chop small three anchovies, a shallot, and some 
parsley; put them into a bowl with two tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar, one of oil, a little mustard and salt. 
When well mixed, add by degrees some cold roast or 
boiled meat in very thin slices; put in a few at a time, 
not exceeding two or three inches long. Shake them 
in the seasoning, and then add more; then cover the 
bowl close, and let the salad be prepared three hours 
before it is to be eaten. Garnish wnth parsley, and a 
few slices of the fat. 

Tomato and Onion Salad. 

Take a tomato, not over-ripe, and cut into slices as 
you would a cucumber; take a small onion and cut it 
up as fine as you can; sprinkle it over the tomato 



112 SALADS. 

slices, add salt, pepper and vinegar at discretion, and 
you will have a salad which, as a relish, puts the cu- 
cumber to shame. 

Watercress Salad. 

Watercresses, as a salad, are best served simply 
with a sauce of lemon juice and olive oil poured over 
them in a salad bowl; but, if preferred, may be served 
with the addition of a little grated horseradish, sliced 
leeks and sliced hard-boiled eggs. 

Oyster Salad. 

Put one quart of oysters, in their own liquor, over 
th,e fire until they ruffle. Two teaspoonfuls dry mus- 
tard, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-quarter teaspoon- 
ful red pepper, one teaspoonful flour, one egg (the 
whites and yolks beaten separately). Take as much 
oil as you like and beat with the yolks, adding the oil 
little by little. Add the dry seasoning, then one gill 
vinegar. Put this in a skillet over the fire until it is 
a little thickened; whip the whites thoroughly and 
stir in; cut up the same bulk of celery and the oysters 
and pour into a dish; then pour over the dressing. 
When you cut your oysters up let them drain in a col- 
ander. Do not use the liquor of the oysters. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 113 



114 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



EGGS 



To Boil Eggs. 

Wash the shells clean in cold water before boiling; 
have a stew-pan of boiling water, into which put the 
eggs; keep it boiling — four minutes for very soft, 
five that the yolk only may be soft, six minutes will 
boil the yolk hard for eating. Eight minutes are re- 
quired to boil eggs for salad or garnish. When done, 
take them from the boiling water into a basin of cold 
water, which will prevent the yolk turning dark or 
black. 

Boiled eggs will become harder from the heat of 
the shell, if they lie a few minutes before breaking, if 
they are not to be served immediately, take them up 
a minute sooner than otherwise, and put them into a 
dish with a cover; in this way they will keep hot for 
teii or fifteen minutes, and become but little harder. 
If the water is kept fast boiling after the eggs are in, 
one minute less will do them than if otherwise. 

A more delicate way of eggs, in the shells is this: 
Have a stew-pan of pure water, boiling hot; put the 
eggs in, cover the stew-pan without putting it over 
the fire; five minutes will do them for those who like 
soft eggs, and a minute or two longer for those who 
like them harder. The whites of eggs boiled in this 
way is more like poached eggs, less firm than in the 
other manner. 



116 EGGS. 

The most healthful and delicate way of cooking 
eggs is to poach them thus: Have a clean stew-pan 
with boiling hot water, add to it a little salt; break 
the eggs, one at a time, into a cup, and from it slip 
them into boiling water; when the white is set and 
firm, which will be after about five minutes, take each 
up with a skimmer, and lay them into a dish over a 
pot of boiling water; cover the dish, when all are 
done, put a bit of butter, and, if liked, sprinkle pep- 
per over them, and serve. In this way they may be 
kept hot and soft for a long time, so that you may do 
any number of them. 

After boiling eggs as directed for garnishing, when 
they are quite cold, take off the shell, and cut them 
lengthwise in two; then cut each half in two or three 
pieces. This looks well over spinach or lettuce or 
boiled fish; or cut them in slices across; or the white 
may be cut in long strips, and the yolk in slices or 
quarters. 

Poached Eggs. 

Carefully break fresh eggs into a shallow pan of 
boiling water have ready slices of buttered toast, and 
when the white part has set round the yolk, take them 
up in a skimmer and lay each one upon a slice of 
bread. They are seasoned at table. 

Scrambled or Stirred Eggs. 

Break eight or more eggs into a basin, add to them 
a tablespoonful of sweet butter cut into bits, and a 
teaspoonful of salt; make a little bit of butter hot in 
a frying-pan, pour in the eggs, and let them cook. 
Stir them with a silver spoon until they are just set 
without becoming hard or brown; serve with or with- 
out toast. 



EGGS. 117 

Rolled Eggs 

Take one dozen eggs, one tablespoonful flour dis- 
solved in a little milk; add one cup milk, a little salt; 
have heaping tablespoonful butter in pan, put in oven 
and brown. When brown take from oven and roll; 
serve hot, cut in slices. 

Stuffed Eggs. 

Cut hard-boiled eggs in halves; remove the yolks, 
chop and mix with them cold chicken or veal, and' a 
little chopped onions, parsley, and a few soaked bread 
crumbs; season and add the uncooked yolk of an egg 
and fill in the cavity even; put the two halves to- 
gether, roll in the beaten egg and bread crumbs, put 
in a wire egg basket and dip in boiling lard until 
slightly brown; serve with celery. 

Pickled Eggs. 

Boil them twenty minutes and place them into cold 
water to make the shells cool off easily; boil some 
beets very soft, peel and mash fine, and put them, 
with salt, pepper, cloves and nutmeg, into vinegar 
enough to cover the eggs. Put the eggs into a jar 
and pour the mixture over them. 

Eggs and Sausages. 

Boil four sausages for five minutes; when half cold 
cut them in half lengthwise, put a little butter or fat 
in frying-pan, and put the sausages in and fry gently; 
break four eggs into pan, cook gently, and serve. 
Raw sausages will do as well, only keep them whole, 
and cook slowly. 

Egg Sauce. 

Take a quarter of a pound of butter and braid it 
well into three even spoonfuls of flour; then turn on 



118 EGGS. 

a scant pint of boiling water, chop well three boiled 
eggs, and stir in the butter as it goes to the table. 

Egg Dumplings. 
Make a batter of a pint of milk, two well-beaten 
eggs, a teaspoonful of salt, and flour enough to make 
the batter as thick as for pound cake. Have a clean 
saucepan of hot water; let the water first boil and 
then drop in the batter by the teaspoonful; four or 
five minutes will boil sufficiently; take them out with 
skimmer, place on a dish and put a bit of butter and 
pepper over them, and serve with boiled or cold 
meats. 

Omelet — No. 1. 
Four eggs, one cup of milk, one tablespoonful of 
flour, a little salt. Bake or fry. 

Omelet — No. 2. 
Four eggs well beaten, as much milk as there is 
egg, and half tablespoonful flour to each egg; a little 
salt and pepper; fry as you do any omelet. 

Omelet — No. 3. 
Take as many eggs as required, and add three tea- 
spoonfuls of milk and a pinch of salt to each egg. 
Beat lightly for three or four minutes. Melt a tea- 
spoonful of butter in a hot pan and pour on the eggs. 
They will at once begin to bubble and rise up, and 
must be kept from sticking to the bottom of the pan 
with a knife. Cook two or three minutes. If de- 
sired beat finely-chopped ham or parsley with the 
eggs before cooking. 

Puff Omelet. 
Beat up the yolks of six eggs. Mix with a small 
teacupful of milk and a little salt. Beat together a 



EGGS. 119 

tablespoonful each of butter and flour till smooth. 
Add the mixture to the eggs and beat all well together. 
Pour into hot, buttered pan, and when it begins to 
thicken add the whites of the eggs well beaten. 
Sprinkle a very little salt on the top, and when stiff 
remove carefully to the dish. 

Omelet au Naturel. 

Break eight or ten eggs into a basin; add a small 
teaspoonful of salt and a little pepper, with a table- 
spoonful of cold water; beat the whole well with a 
spoon or whisk. In the meantime put some fresh 
sweet butter into an omelet-pan, and when it is nearly 
hot put in an omelet; whilst it is frying with a skim- 
mer-spoon raise the edges from the pan, that it may 
be properly done. When the eggs are set, and one 
side is a fine brown, double it half over, and serve 
hot. These omelets should be put quite thin in the 
pan; the butter required for each will be about the 
size of a small egg. 

French Omelet. 

Break eight eggs into a basin, season with a small 
teaspoonful of salt and a little pepper, and, if liked, 
mace or nutmeg; add two tablespoonfuls of milk or 
cream, two ounces of butter broken in bits, and a lit- 
tle parsley cut small, if liked, also a finely-chopped 
shallot or white onion well washed. Beat these in- 
gredients well together with a spoon; put an ounce 
of butter in a frying-pan; let it become boiling hot, 
and pour the omelet in about half an inch thick; as it 
is cooking, continue to stir it with a spoon, drawing it 
from the sides to the centre, that it may be evenly 
done; shake the pan now and then to free the omelet 
from it; let it fry gently; when it is a fine clear 
brown, turn it into a dish, and serve. 



120 EGGS. 

Ham Omelet. 

Put a proper quantity of chopped ham into the fry- 
ing-pan, pouring over it enough of eggs (which have 
previously been well beaten with a small cup of milk) 
to make a generous omelet; stir thoroughly, and, as 
soon as the egg stiffens, dish, and send smoking hot 
to the table. 

Smoked Beef with Eggs. 

Cut some smoked beef in thin shavings or chips, 
put them into a frying-pan, and nearly fill it with hot 
water; set it on the fire, and let it boil up once, then 
pour it off; add to the beef a good bit of lard, twice 
the size of an egg, for half a pound of the beef, shake 
a little pepper over, and let it fry for a few minutes 
over a quick fire; then break two or three or more 
eggs into it, stir them together until the eggs are 
done, then turn it on to a dish. Or, after frying the 
beef with a little wheat-flour dredged over, fry eggs, 
and serve with it the same as ham. 

Eggs, a la Mode. 
Remove the skin from a dozen tomatoes, medium 
size, cut them up in a saucepan, add a little butter, 
pepper and salt; when sufficiently boiled, beat up five 
or six eggs, and just before you serve turn them into 
the saucepan, with the tomato, and stir one way for 
two minutes, allowing them time to be well done. 

To Keep Eggs. 
To four quarts air-slacked lime, put two table- 
spoonfuls cream tartar, two of salt, and four quarts 
cold water. Put fresh eggs into a stone jar, and pour 
this mixture over them. This will keep nine dozen, 
a'ud if fresh when laid down, they will keep many 
months. If the water settles away, so as to leave the 
upper layer uncovered, add more water. Cover close. 
and keep in a cool place. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES, 121 



•^22 ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



RARE-BITS, CHEESE CAKES, ETC. 



Welsh Rare-bit — No. 1. 

Cut or grate some good cheese, put a bit of butter 
and some made mustard to it; put it in a frying-pan 
over the fire, and stir it smooth; a little milk may be 
added to it; when it is hot and a smooth paste, spread 
it on slices of nicely-toasted bread, and serve hot. 

Welsh Rare-bit — No. 2. 

Cut your cheese into small bits, if soft, but if hard 
grate it; have ready a spirit-lamp and a deep, block-, 
tin dish; put in the cheese, with a lump of butter, and 
set it over the lamp. Have ready the yolk of an egg, 
whipped with a half glass of Madeira and as much ale 
or beer; stir your cheese, when melted, till it is thor- 
oughly mixed with the butter; then add gradually the 
egg and wine; keep stirring till it forms a smooth 
mass; season with cayenne or grated nutmeg. To be 
eaten with a thin, hot toast. 

Roasted Cheese. 

Grate three ounces of dry cheese, and mix it with 
the yolks of two eggs; put four ounces of grated 
bread, and three of butter; beat the whole together in 
a mortar with a dessert-spoonful of made mustard, a 
little salt, and some pepper; toast some slices of 



124 RARE-BITS, CHEESE CAKES, ETC. 

bread, cut off the outside crust, cut it in shapes, and 
spread the paste thick upon them, and put them in a 
Dutch oven; let them become hot and slightly 
browned; serve hot as possible. 

Veal Cheese. 

Take equal quantities of boiled veal and boiled 
tongue, sliced; pound each separately in a mortar, 
adding butter as you do so. Mix in a stone jar, press 
hard and pour on melted butter. Keep it covered in 
a dry place. To be eaten at tea in slices. 

Lemon Cheese Cakes. 

Take two ounces of butter, two eggs, three table- 
spoonfuls of moist sugar, the grated rinds and juice 
of two lemons, and two stale biscuits (or hard crack- 
ers of any kind), also finely grated. Mix all together 
and then simmer over the fire for a few minutes in a 
saucepan. Have ready some patty-pans, lined with 
puff-paste. Put a very small quantity of the mixture 
into each, and bake for fifteen or twenty minutes in 
rather a quick oven. This quantity will make about 
one dozen and a half of cheese cakes. 

Cheese Cakes. 

One-fourth pound butter, one pound sugar, six 
e^-gs, juice and rind of two lemons; simmer together 
and bake in pans. Serve as pastry. 



VEGETABLES. 



-i=^6=t- 



To Boil Vegetables. 

Vegetables should be carefully examined for in- 
sects and thoroughly washed in cold water. Be sure 
the water boils when you put the vegetables over, but 
do not over-boil, as by so doing much of the flavor 
and crispness is lost. The younger the vegetable, the 
more quickly it is cooked. 

Boiling Potatoes. 

Not one housekeeper out of ten knows how to boil 
potatoes properly. The information contained in the 
following will be found invaluable: Wash clean the 
potatoes, and leave the skin on; boil the water and 
throw them in. As soon as boiled soft enough for a 
fork to be easily thrust through them, dash some cold 
water into the pot, let the potatoes remain two min- 
utes, and then pour off the water. This done, half re- 
move the pot-lid, and let the potatoes remain over a 
slow fire till the steam is evaporated; then peel, and 
set them on the table in an open dish. Potatoes of a 
good kind, thus cooked, will always be sweet, dry, and 
mealy. A covered dish is bad for potatoes, as it keeps 
the steam in, and makes them soft and watery. 



126 vegetables. 

Fancy Baked Potatoes. 

Select large potatoes and of even size; bake and 
when done, cut a piece from an end and remove the 
inside, rub it through a fine sieve or mash thoroughly; 
put on the fire with half an ounce of butter and one 
ounce of grated cheese for every four potatoes; add 
boiling milk, pepper and salt, as for mashed potatoes; 
fill the potato shells and put them in a hot oven, and 
brown. 

Fried Potatoes. 

Cut a quart of cold boiled potatoes into cubes, pre- 
pare three tablespoonfuls chopped onion and one of 
chopped parsley. Fry the onions till done in three 
tablespoonfuls of butter, then add the potatoes, sea- 
son with salt and pepper. Stir gently with a fork so 
as not to break them. When heated through, add the 
parsley and cook two minutes longer. Serve on a hot 
dish. 

Stewed Potatoes. 

Pare the potatoes and cut in slices; put them in hot 
water and rinse them; then put in saucepan with 
enough boiling water for gravy. When nearly done, 
season with pepper, salt and butter. Thicken with 
flour batter. Let it boil up two or three times before 
sending to the table. 

Hashed Potatoes, 

Peel and chop some cold boiled potatoes, put them 
into a stew-pan with a very little milk or water to 
moisten them, put to them a small bit of butter, and 
pepper and salt to taste; cover the stew-pan close, 
and -set it over a gentle fire for fifteen or twenty min- 
utes; stir them once or twice while cooking; serve 
hot for breakfast. 



VEGETABLES. 



127 



Mashed Potatoes. 

Boil and peel the potatoes and break them into 
paste; then to two pounds add a quarter of a pint of 
milk, a little salt and two ounces of butter; stir all 
well over the fire. Either serve them in this manner 
or place them on a dish in a form and brown the top. 

Broiled Potatoes. 

Cut whole boiled Irish or sweet potatoes length- 
wise into slices a quarter of an inch thick, and lay 
upon a gridiron over a hot fire; brown on both sides, 
sprinkle with pepper and salt and lay a bit of butter 
on each. 

Saratoga Potatoes. 

Slice potatoes as thin as possible, let them lie in the 
coldest water an hour or two, then dry with a cloth; 
have a good deal of lard boiling hot, drop in a few 
slices at a time, and as soon as they are browned, take 
out with a skimmer; when put in the dish for the 
table, sprinkle salt over them. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes — No. 1. 

Twelve potatoes parboiled, and when cold, sliced or 
cut into dice; one onion, chopped; butter or drip- 
ping for frying; chopped parsley, pepper and salt. 
Heat the butter in a frying-pan; put in the onion; fry 
one minute; then the potatoes, stir briskly and fry 
slowly five minutes; there should be butter enough 
to keep them from sticking to the bottom of the 
pan; and they should not brown; add the season- 
ing just before you take them up; drain perfectly dry 
by shaking them to and fro in a heated colander; 
serve in a hot dish. 



128 VEGETABLES. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes — No. 2. 
One pint of cold boiled potatoes cut into small pieces; 
season with salt and pepper, one spoonful of butter, one 
slice of onion cut very fine, one teaspoonful chopped 
parsley; add parsley to potatoes, fry onion brown in 
butter, then add potatoes and fry; use fork to turn 
them instead of knife. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes — No. 3. 
Put a pint of milk in a frying-pan; add a piece of 
buiter the size of a butter-nut, some salt and pepper; 
let it boil; take a heaping teaspoonful of corn-starch, 
mix with a little cold milk, add, stirring till it thick- 
ens; have six or seven good-sized peeled potatoes 
(boiled or baked the day before), cut them in small 
pieces, put all together; cook fifteen minutes, stirring 
to prevent burning. 

Potato Cakes. 
Roast some potatoes in the oven; when done, skin 
and mash in a bowl with a small bit of butter 
warmed in a little milk; chop a shallot and a little 
parsley very fine, mix well with the potatoes, add 
pepper and salt, shape into cakes, egg and bread- 
crumb them, and fry a light brown. 

Potato Croquettes. 
Season cold mashed potatoes with pepper, salt and 
nutmeg; beat to a cream with a tablespoonfuPof 
melted butter to every cupful of potato. Add two or 
three beaten eggs and some minced parsley; roll into 
small balls; dip in beaten eggj then into bread 
crumbs, dnd fry in hot lard. 

RiCED Potatoes. 
Have a flat dish and the colander hot. With a 
spoon rub mashed potato through the colander on 



VEGETABLES. 129 

to the hot dish. Be careful that the colander does not 
touch the potato on the dish. It is best to have only 
a few spoonfuls of the potato in at one time. When 
all has been pressed through, place the dish in the 
oven for five minutes. 

Cale Cannon. 
Boil three large potatoes with the skins on; bruise 
them to meal, and mix them with three cabbages, 
boiled, pressed from the water, and chopped; to 
which add half an ounce of butter, two spoonfuls of 
cream, pepper and salt. Heat and stir it over the fire, 
and send it to the table in the shape of a cake, or in a 
mould. 

Turnips with Sauce. 
Pare and cut into square pieces one-eighth inch 
thick; boil until tender in salted water; drain but do 
not mash them, and pour over them in your vegetable 
dish the following sauce: Take a tablespoonful of 
flour, tablespoonful of butter, and mix, beating to a 
cream, add salt-spoonful of salt, half salt-spoonful 
of pepper, a pint of milk, and half a pint of water; boil 
the milk and water, pour over the butter and flour, 
and cook the whole over a slow fire. This sauce can 
also be used for boiled onions. 

Stewed Onions. 
Peel six large onions; fry gently to a fine brown, 
but do not blacken them; then put them into a small 
stew-pan, with a little weak gravy, pepper and salt; 
cover and stew two hours gently. They should be 
lightly floured at first. 

Boiled Onions. 
Wash, peel, boil fifteen minutes, drain off the water 
and add boiling water; add salt and boil till thoroughly 



130 VEGETABLES. 

soft; then pour off the water and pour over them 
sweet milk. Stir flour and butter together, and when 
the milk boils stir in this thickening, adding salt and 
pepper to taste. Thus prepared the strong flavor of 
the onions is toned down. The water in which they 
are boiled should be abundant and soft. Old onions 
require two hours to boil. 

Onion Ormoloo. 

Peel ten or twelve large white onions, steep them 
an hour in cold water, then boil them soft. Mash 
them with an equal quantity of boiled white potatoes, 
adding half a pint of milk and two or three well- 
beaten eggs. Stir the mixture very hard, season it 
with nutmeg, pepper and salt, and bake it in a quick 
oven; when half done pour a little melted butter or 
gravy over the top. 

Shallots. 
Shallots, a species of onions, are an excellent 
spring dish. Strip off the outside skin and remove 
the green part; boil in salted water, and serve with 
drawn butter. They are also eaten raw, served with 
lettuce, radishes or watercresses. 

Stewed Cabbage — No. 1. 
Take off the outer leaves, clean, cut in four pieces, 
free from stump and stalk, and drop in boiling water, 
with a little salt; boil until tender, and drain. Put two 
ounces of butter, half a pint of milk, and a little flour, 
in a saucepan; lay in the cabbage, season with pepper 
and salt, and stew gently for a few minutes. 

Stewed Cabbage — No. 2. 
Slice a small, or half a large red cabbage, wash 
and put in a saucepan with pepper, salt and what 



VEGETABLES. 131 

water hangs to the cabbage but no more, and a piece 
of butter. Stew till quite tender, and when ready to 
serve add two or three teaspoonfuls of vinegar, and 
give one boil over the fire. Serve sausages on it or 
with cold meat. 

Ladies' Cabbage. 

Boil a firm, white cabbage, fifteen minutes; change 
the water and continue boiling until tender, when 
strain and set aside until perfectly cold; then chop 
fine, and add two beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of but- 
ter, three tablespoonfuls of rich milk or cream, a lit- 
tle pepper and salt; stir all well together, and bake in a 
buttered pudding dish until brown. This dish is di- 
gestible and palatable, much resembling cauliflower. 

Hot Slaw, 

Cut the cabbage into fine shreds; put in a saucepan 
with a cup of vinegar, a little water, salt and pepper; 
stev/ gently for a few minutes. For fried cabbage, 
add some butter and lard; cook brown. 

Stuffed Cabbage. 

Cut out the heart of a large, fresh cabbage; fill the 
vacancy with cooked chicken or veal, chopped very 
fine, highly seasoned, and rolled into balls with the 
yolk of an egg. Tie the cabbage firmly together and 
boil in a covered kettle two hours. This makes a 
delicious dish. 

Summer Squash. 

There are many varieties of this vegetable, but the 
general rules for cooking them are the same. Unless 
they are extremely tender, it is best to pare them, cut- 
ting away as little as possible besides the hard outer 
rind. Take out the seeds, quarter them, and lay the 



132 VEGETABLES. 

pieces in cold water. Boil about an hour. Drain 
well, pressing out all the w^ater; mash soft and 
smooth, and season with butter, pepper and salt. 

Winter Squash. 
Prepare it the same as summer squash, but steam 
instead of boiling. Hubbard squash is very nice baked. 
Cut it in slices, take out the seeds, but do not peel; 
lay the slices in a dripping-pan ind bake in a moder- 
ate oven. Steam one hour. Bake three-quarters of 
an hour. 

Boiled Parsnips. 
If young, scrape before cooking. If old, pare care- 
fully, and if large, split. Put into boiling water, 
salted, and boil, if small and tender, from half to 
three-quarters of an hour; if full grown, more than 
an hour. When tender, drain and slice lengthwise, 
buttering well when they are dished. 

Fried Parsnips. 
For frying scrape and boil them, and cut them 
lengthwise in thick slices, dredge with flour, and fry 
brown on both sides in hot butter or lard; season 
with butter, pepper and salt. 

To Mash Parsnips. 
Boil them tender; scrape, then mash them into a 
stew-pan with a little cream, a good piece of butter 
ixnd pepper and salt. 

Fricassee of Parsnips. 
Boil in milk till they are soft. Then cut them 
lengthwise into bits two or three inches long, and 
simmer in a white sauce, made of two spoonfuls of 
broth, a bit of mace, half a cupful of cream, a bit of 
butter, and some flour, pepper and salt. 



VEGETABLES. 133 

To Crisp Parsley. 

When picked and washed very clean, put it into an 
oven, or on a sheet of paper, and keep it at a mod- 
erate distance from the fire; turn it till crisp. 

Green Peas. 

Shell green peas until you have a quart; half a 
peck in the shells will generally produce a quart of 
shelled peas. Put boiling water to cover them, add 
a teaspoonful of salt, cover the stew-pan, and boil 
fast for half an hour; then take one between your 
fingers; if it will mash easily, they are done; drain off 
the water, take them into a deep dish, put to them a 
teacup or less of sweet butter and a little pepper; a 
small teaspoonful of white sugar is a great improve- 
ment. Serve hot. Small young potatoes, nicely 
scraped, may be boiled and served with them, or in a 
separate dish with a little butter over. 

To Boil Green Peas. 

Wash after shelling them; boil with a spoonful of 
sugar in the water. Serve with scalded mint 
chopped; put a piece of butter to the peas after they 
are taken up. 

To Stew Green Peas. 

Put a quart of peas, a head of lettuce and an onion, 
both sliced, a bit of butter, pepper, salt, and no more 
water than hangs round the lettuce after washing. 
Stew them two hours very gently. When to be 
served, beat up an egg and stir it into them, or a bit 
of flour and butter. Some think a teaspoonful of 
white powdered sugar is an improvement. Gravy 
may be added, but it will diminish the flavor of the 
peas. Chop a bit of mint, and stew in them. 



134 VEGETABLES. 

To Stew Old Peas. 

Steep them in water all night, if not fine boilers; 
otherwise only half an hour; put them into water 
enough just to cover them, with a good bit of butter, 
or a piece of beef or pork. Stew them very gently 
till the peas are soft, and the meat is tender; if it is 
not salt meat, add salt and a little pepper. Serve 
them around the meat. 

Succotash. 

This is made of green corn and Lima, string or but- 
ter beans. Have a third more corn than beans, when 
the former has been cut from the cob and the beans 
shelled. Put into boiling water enough to cover 
them — no more — and stew gently together until ten- 
der, stirring now and then. Pour off nearly all the 
water, and add a large cupful of milk. Stew in this 
for an hour; then stir in a great lump of butter, a tea- 
spoonful of flour wet with cold milk, pepper and salt 
to taste. Salt fat pork may be used instead of butter; 
cut it in slices and stew with the corn and beans. 
Succotash may also be made of dried corn and beans, 
but they must be soaked all night before using. 

Egg-plant. 

The long purple is best; the next best is the round, 
with prickles on the stem. Peel and slice them, 
spread salt on each separate piece, and lay in a co- 
lander to drain; let them lie one hour, parboil, drain, 
and dip in egg batter, or beaten eggs and bread 
crumbs, and fry, until thoroughly cooked, in pork-fat 
or butter. Egg-plants, unless well cooked are in- 
sipid. This is the usual way of cooking them, but 
they may be baked in the following manner: After 
they have boen parboiled, mash, season with salt, pep- 



VEGETABLES. 135 

per and butter; put this mixture in a deep earthen 
dish, sprinkle over some bread crumbs, and bake it a 
light brown. 

Fricasseed Egg-plant. 

Having peeled and sliced the egg-plants, boil them 
in water with a salt-spoonful of salt until they are 
thoroughly cooked. Drain off the water, pour in suf- 
ficient milk to cover the slices, and add a few bits of 
butter rolled in flour; let it simmer gently, shaking 
the pan over the fire till the sauce is thick, and stir in 
the beaten yolks of two or three eggs just before it is 
served. 

Fried Egg-plant. 

Peel the egg-plants, slice and sprinkle a little salt 
over them and let them so remain for half an hour; 
then wipe the slices dry; dip them into beaten yolks 
of egg, then into powdered cracker, and fry them to 
a light brown in boiling lard, seasoning them slightly 
with pepper while they are cooking. Another way is 
to parboil the egg-plants in a little soft water after 
they are peeled, then slice and dust them with com- 
mon flour or corn-starch, and fry brown. 

Egg Broccoli. 

Take half a dozen heads of broccoli, cut off the small 
shoots or blossoms and lay them aside for frying; 
trim the stalks short and pare off the rough rind up to 
the head; wash them well, and lay them in salt 
water for an hour; then put them into plenty of boil- 
ing water (salted) and let them boil fast till quite 
tender. Put two ounces of butter into a saucepan, 
and stir it over a slow fire till it is melted; then add 
gradually six or eight well-beaten eggs, and stir the 
mixture until it is thick and smooth. Lay the broccoli 



136 VEGETABLES. 

in the centre of a large dish, pour the egg around it, 
and having fried the broccoli blossoms, arrange them 
in a circle near the edge of the dish. 

Stewed Asparagus. 

Cut the asparagus in pieces half an inch in length, 
put them in boiling water with a little salt and cook 
them about ten minutes; then pour the water off, add 
milk and finish cooking; season well with butter, pep- 
per and salt. String beans, lima beans or green peas 
may be cooked in the same way. 

Asparagus on Toast. 

Tie the stalks in small bunches, boil them in a very 
little salted water about half an hour; toast as many 
slices of bread as there are bunches of asparagus, lay 
a bunch on each slice, add butter and one cupful of 
cream; thicken with a half teaspoonful of corn starch. 
When hot, pour over asparagus and toast. 

Asparagus Omelet. 

Boil two pounds of tender fresh-cut asparagus in a 
very little water, with a small portion of salt; or bet- 
ter, steam the asparagus until it is tender without 
water; chop it very fine; mix with it the yolks of five 
eggs and the whites of three well-beaten eggs, and 
two tablespoonfuls of sweet cream. Fry and serve 
hot. 

Spinach. 

Spinach requires a great deal of water to free it 
from the grit with which it is covered from its low 
growth. The stalks should be broken off, the spinach 
well washed and put in a saucepan with a little salt; 
cover with hot water. A very large quantity of un- 
cooked spinach is needed to make a dish, as it wastes 



VEGETABLES. 137 

away considerably in cooking. Boil about one-half 
hour, or until the leaves are tender. When done, pour 
in a colander and press out the water; cut up fine and 
season well with butter, pepper and salt, and set in 
the oven a few minutes. Serve with boiled eggs cut 
in slices. 

Cauliflower — No. 1. 

Pick off the outside leaves and cut the stalks close 
to the bottom of the flower; w^ash and put in cold 
water about half an hour; unless very large, do not 
divide them; put in boiling water, olightly salted; 
when tender, take up, drain and put butter among the 
leaves, or pour egg sauce over them. 

Cauliflower — No. 2. 

Soak it head down in cold water for an hour to 
dra^ out any insects that may harbor in it; cut off all 
the superfluous leaves and put it into boiling salted 
water; boil until tender; take up and drain in a co- 
lander; pour over it gravy made of boiling milk, with 
flour and butter mixed together stirred into it. Serve 
with slices of lemon. 

Fried Cauliflower. 

Prepare and boil the cauliflower as directed. Then 
divide it equally, into small tufts, and spread it on a 
dish to cool. Prepare a sufficient quantity of batter 
made in the proportion of a tablespoonful of flour, 
and two tablespoonfuls of milk to each egg; dip each 
tuft of cauliflower twice in this batter, and fry them a 
light brown. Broccoli may also be fried in this 
manner. 

Cauliflower in White Sauce. 

Half boil it; then cut it into handsome pieces, and 
lay them in a stew-pan with a little broth, a bit of 



138 VEGETABLES. 

mace, a little salt, and a dust of white pepper; sim- 
mer half an hour; then add a little cream, butter and 
tiour; shake, and simmer a few minutes, and serve. 

Boiled Carrots. 

Carrots require a good deal of boiling when old; 
when young, wipe off the skin after they are boiled; 
when old, boil them with salt meat, but first scrape 
them. 

Stewed Carrots. 

Half boil, then nicely scrape, and slice them into a 
stew-pan. Put to them half a teacupful of any weak 
broth, some pepper and salt, and half a cupful of 
cream; simmer them till they are very tender, but not 
broken. Before serving, rub a very little flour :^'ith 
a bit of butter, and warm up with them. If approved, 
chopped parsley may be added ten minutes before 
serving. 

Stewed Celery. 

Trim and cut to the same length a number of heads 
of celery; split them in two, lengthwise; tie them in 
bundles with thread, and parboil them for ten min- 
utes in salted water; drain them and arrange them in 
a saucepan over slices of bacon with a bundle of 
sweet herbs, a couple of onions, pepper and salt to 
taste, and a blade of mace; add enough stock just to 
cover the contents; and set the saucepan to simmer 
gently till the celery is quite tender. Having re- 
moved the string, place the celery neatly on a dish; 
take some of the stock in which it has been stewed, 
remove all fat from it, add a small piece of fresh but- 
ter, pour it over the celery, and serve. 



VEGETABLES. 139 

How TO Boil and Dress Macaronl 
Put in an iron pot or stew-pan two quarts of water; 
.et it boil; add two teaspoonfuls of salt, one ounce of 
butter; then add one pound of macaroni; boil till 
tender; let it be rather firm to the touch; it is then 
ready for use, either for soup, pudding, or to be 
dressed with cheese. Drain it in a colander; put it 
back in the pan, add four ounces of cheese or more, a 
little butter, salt and pepper; toss it well together 
and serve. It will be found light and nutritious. 

To Dress Artichokes. 
Trim a few of the outside leaves off, and cut the 
stalk even. If young, half an hour will boil them. 
They are better for being gathered two or three days 
first. Serve them with melted butter in as many 
small cups as there are artichokes, having clipped off 
the sharp points of the leaves. 

Artichoke Bottoms. 

If dried, they must be soaked, then stew^ed in weak 

gravy, and served with or wnthout force-meat in 

each. Or they may be boiled in milk, and served 

with cream sauce; or added to ragouts, French pies, etc. 

To Stew Cucumbers. 
Slice them thick; or halve and divide them into 
two lengths; strew over them some salt and pepper, 
and sliced onions; add a bit of butter. Simmer very 
slowly. Before serving, if it lacks richness, put in 
some more butter and a little flour; or, only a little 
flour if it is rich enough. Another way is to slice 
the onions, and cut the cucumbers large; flour them, 
and fry in some butter; then pour on some good 
broth or gravy, and stew them till done enough. 
Skim off the fat. 



140 vegetables. 

Baked Tomatoes. 

Take large, smooth tomatoes, wipe them and cut a 
thin slice from the blossom end, take out the seeds 
and fill each tomato with a force-meat, made of bread 
crumbs, some salt pork chopped very fine, seasoned 
with salpicant; put a bit of butter in each, and fit on the 
top; place them in a deep dish and bake about half 
an hour. 

Stewed Tomatoes, 

Loosen the skins by pouring scalding water upon 
them; peel and cut them up. Stew in a saucepan 
(tin or porcelain) half an hour, then add salt and pep- 
per to taste, and a tablespoonful of butter. Stew 
gently fifteen minutes longer, and serve. Thicken 
with a little grated bread. A minced onion — a small 
one — improves the flavor. 

Fried Tomatoes. 

Put scalding water on the tomatoes and let them stand 
a few minutes; turn it off and pare them; salt and 
pepper them and dust a little flour on one side; have 
the butter hot and lay them in it; fry slowly about 
fifteen minutes, then turn and fry for the same length 
ol time; a few minutes before they are done add the 
cream to suit the taste. 

Scalloped Tomatoes. 

One can tomatoes; put a layer into an earthen dish; 
strew bits of butter over it with salt and pepper; then 
put a layer of rolled crackers, then tomato and so on 
until the dish is filled. Bake three-fourths of an hour. 

Salsify or Oyster Plant. 

Cut off the tops close to the roots, scrape, wash 
and slice them lengthwise or round; steam until ten- 



VEGETABLES. 141 

der in salted water; drain and put in a saucepan; 
cover with milk; to one pint of salsify add a table- 
spoonful of butter rolled in flour; season with salt 
and pepper; let it stew a few minutes and add a lit- 
tle vinegar. 

Artificial Oysters. 

Grate as many ears of green corn as will make one 
pint of pulp; add one teacupful of flour, one-half tea- 
cupful of butter, one egg; pepper and salt to suit your 
taste. To be dropped in butter and fried. 

Sea Kale. 

Pick it over carefully, tie it up in bunches, and iet 
it lie in cold water an hour. Put into salted boiling 
water, and cook about half an hour, drain and season 
with butter, pepper and salt, or lay it on toasted 
bread, and pour rich drawn butter over it. 

French Beans. 

String and cut them into four or eight pieces; the 
latter looks best. Lay them in salt and water, and 
when the saucepan boils, put them in with some salt. 
As soon as they are done, serve them immediately, to 
preserve the green color. Or when half done, drain 
the water off, and put into them two spoonfuls of 
broth strained; add a little cream, butter and flour, to 
taste. 

Lima Beans. 

Put a pint of shelled beans in just enough salted 
boiling water to cover them, boil till tender, then 
drain off the water and add a cup of cream, a little 
butter, pepper and salt. Simmer a few minutes and 
serve. 



142 vegetables. 

Sweet Corn. 

If some of the tenderest and nicest of the husks are 
put into a kettle in which corn on the cob is cooked, 
the flavor of the corn will be improved. Corn is 
sometimes cooked with the inner husks on, and these 
are removed just before serving it. 

Stewed Green Corn. 

Cut from the cob and stew fifteen minutes in boil- 
ing water. Turn off most of this, cover with cold 
milk, and stew, until very tender, adding, before tak- 
ing up, a large lump of butter cut in bits and rolled 
in flour. Season with pepper and salt to taste. Boil 
five minutes and serve. Cold boiled corn may be 
used instead. 

Green Corn Fritters. 

Grate the corn and allow to every cupful, one eggj 
a tablespoonful of milk, and a little salt and butter; 
stir all together and thicken with a little flour. They 
may be fried in hot lard or cooked on a griddle the 
same as batter cakes. 

To Can Corn. 

For every eight quarts of corn cut from the cob, 
take one ounce of tartaric acid, cook together and 
can. Another way is to use glass cans. Cut the 
corn from the cob, press it into the cans till the milk 
flows over. Put on the tops, screw down tight. Place 
them in a boiler with sticks on the bottom, pour in 
cold water enough to about two-thirds cover them. 
Boil five hours. When about half cooked, remove a 
can at a time, tighten the tops and replace. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



143 



J 44 ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



PICKLES 



-i=ta«- 



Chow-chow. 



Two quarts eac-h of green tomatoes, white onions, 
pickled beans, one dozen each of green cucumbers 
and peppers, and one-half of a large cal;^bage. Sea- 
son with mustard, celery seeds and whatever else one 
may desire. Cover mixture with vinegar and boil 
two hours, stirring continually; add two tablespoon- 
fuls olive oil while hot. 

Mixed Pickles. 

Five heads cauliflower, two hundred cucumbers, 
two quarts nasturtiums, two quarts onions and twelve 
green peppers. Put the cauliflower, onions and cu- 
cumbers into salt water for twenty-four hours. Use 
whole spices. 

Pickled Cucumbers. 

To one gallon cucumbers take one teacupful salt, 
with sufficient water to cover; pour boiling hot water 
over them for three mornings; the fourth morning 
scald them in equal parts of cider vinegar and water, 
with a little alum added. Then drop them into cold 
vinegar with brown sugar, mustard seed, cinnamon, 
peppers, horseradish, mace and a few bay-leaves. 
Seal them up for future use. 



146 PICKLES. 

To Salt Cucumbers. 
To one pail of cucumbers take two quarts of salt. 

Ripe Cucumber Pickle, or Russian Bear. 

Take large and ripe cucumbers before they become 
soft; cut in rings, pare, divide in smaller pieces, and 
remove the seeds; cook the pieces very slightly in 
water salted just enough to flavor well; drain and put 
in a stone jar. Prepare a vinegar as follows : Two 
pounds of sugar to two quarts of vinegar, a few 
slices of onion, some cayenne pepper, whole allspice, 
whole cloves, cinnamon according to one's judgment 
and taste. Much cooking injures the pickle very 
much; the pieces should be firm and admit a silver 
fork with difficulty, when taken from the fire. 

To Pickle Cucumbers and Sliced Onions. 

Cut them in slices, and sprinkle salt over them. Next 
day drain them for five or six hours; then put them 
into a stone jar, pour boiling vinegar over them, and 
keep them in a warm place. The slices should be 
thick. Repeat the boiling vinegar, and stop them up 
again instantly; and so on till green; the last time 
put in pepper. Keep in small stone jars. 

Pickled Onions. 

In the month of September, choose the small white 
round onions, take off the brown skin, have ready a 
very nice tin stew-pan of boiling water, and throw in 
as many onions as will cover the top; as soon as they 
look clear on the outside, take them up as quick 
as possible with a skimmer, and lay them on a 
clean cloth, cover them close with another, and scald 
some more, and so on. Let them lie to be cold, then 
put them in a jar, or glass, or wide-mouth bottles, and 



PICKLES. 147 

pour over them the best vinegar, just hot, but not 
boiling. When cold, cover them. Should the outer 
skin shrivel, peel it off. They must look quite clear. 

* Pickled Red Cabbage. 

Slice it into a colander, and sprinkle each layer '' 
with salt; let it drain two days, then put it into a jar, 
and pour boiling vinegar enough to cover, and put in 
a few slices of red beet-root. Observe to choose the 
purple-red cabbage. Those who like the flavor of 
spice will boil it with the vinegar. Cauliflower cut 
in bunches, and thrown in after being salted, will 
look of a beautiful red. 

Virginia Damson Pickles. 

To five pound damsons allow five pounds of sugar 
and two and one-half pints vinegar. Take the vine- 
gar and put to it two ounces mace, one ounce cinna- 
mon and one ounce cloves. Let it come to aboil and 
pour over the fruit and sugar; cover close. Turn off 
and scald the syrup for six successive days; the 
seventh day let fruit, spices, and all come to a boil. 
It will keep for years. 

Pickled Crab-apples. 

To one quart of fruit add one quart of sugar, and 
vinegar enough just to cover. Spice with ground 
cloves to your taste. Put your fruit into the vinegar, 
and stir till they are soft; or, better, steam them first, 
and pour the vinegar and sugar on them when hot. 

Tomato Sauce for Hot or Cold Meats. 

Put tomatoes, when perfectly ripe, into an earthen 
jar, and set it in an oven, when the bread is drawn, 
till they are quite soft; then separate the skins from 



148 PICKLES. 

the pulp, and mix this with capsicum-vinegar, and a 
few cloves of garlic pounded, which must both be 
proportioned to the quantity of fruit. Add powdered 
ginger and salt to your taste. Use white-wine vine- 
gar and cayenne. 

Tomato Pickle. 

Eight pounds skinned tomatoes and four of brown 
sugar. Put them in a preserving kettle, and stir 
often to prevent burning. Boil to the thickness of 
molasses, then add one quart of good cider- vinegar, 
one teaspoonful of mace, one teaspoonful of cloves, 
and boil five minutes longer. 

Spiced Tomatoes. 

One peck of green sliced tomatoes, and six good- 
sized onions; sprinkle a coffee cup of salt through 
them and press down with a weight for twenty-four 
hours; drain off this brine and take one quart of vine- 
gar and two quarts of water, and boil the tomatoes in 
it about ten or fifteen minutes, or until tender. Then 
take two quarts of vinegar, four of sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls each of cinnamon, cloves and ginger, a lit- 
tle mace, one teaspoonful black pepper; let them 
come to a boil, and then add the tomatoes; then boil 
fifteen minutes, or till tender. 

Cauliflower Pickle. 

Cut the cauliflowers into little flowerets of equal 
size. Throw them into boiling salted water. Place 
them at the back of the range, and when they are just 
about to boil take them off and drain them. Put them 
into jars. Boil about fifteen minutes enough vine- 
gar to cover them, seasoning it with one ounce of nut- 
meg, one ounce of mustard seed, and half an ounce of 



PICKLES. 149 

mace to three quarts of vinegar. Pour this hot over 
the cauliflowers, adding a little sweet oil the last 
thing to cover the top. Cover them while warm with 
a bladder or fine leather over their corks, or seal them 
in glass cans. 

PiCOLLILLY. 

Four quarts each of cut cucumbers, beans and cab- 
bage. Two quarts each of cut peppers and onions, 
and four quarts each of celery and nasturtions. Pour 
on boiling vinegar, flavored strongly with mustard, 
mustard seed and ground cloves. 

Pickled Apples. 

Take sweet apples, fully ripe, core and quarter 
them. Take two quarts of vinegar, two pounds of 
sugar, one-half ounce of mace, one of cloves and one 
of cinnamon, wnth a spoonful of allspice. (These 
spices should not be ground.) Let it boil together 
ten minutes. Then put in enough of the apples to 
cover the surface of the syrup and let them boil until 
clear. Skim them and lay on a platter; put fresh ap- 
ples to cook, until you have as many as your syrup 
will cover when placed in a jar. These, after a few 
days, sometimes need to be brought again to boiling 
point, and then will keep any length of time. 

Celery Chowder. 

One gallon green tomatoes, chopped, and one cab- 
bage; sprinkle over a teacupful of salt, and spread on 
a large platter; let it stand over night and drain off; 
scald in vinegar; when almost done, add one tea- 
spoonful each of ground cloves, white mustard seed 
and brown sugar, and two of celery seed. Place in a 
stone jar for use. 



150 PICKLES. 

Pickled Peppers. 

Cut out the stem of the peppers in a circle, and 
wash out in cold water; then fill each with a mixture 
of finely-chopped cabbage, horseradish, cucumbers 
and mustard seed; then replace the pieces cut from 
the top and sew around with coarse thread. Pack in 
stone jars and cover with cold vinegar. 

Pickled Butternuts. 

Gather them the last week in June. Make and 
skim a brine of salt and water, strong enough to bear 
up an egg. When cold, pour it on the nuts, and let 
them lie in it for twelve days. Drain and lay them 
in a jar, and pour over them the best cider-vinegar, 
which has been previously boiled with pepper- 
corns, cloves, allspice, white mustard seed, ginger, 
mace and horseradish. The vinegar must be cold 
when poured on; cover close, and keep one year be- 
fore using. Walnuts are pickled the same way, and 
the vinegar may be used as catsup, for it is very nice. 

Pickled Oysters. 

Scald one hundred large oysters in their own liquor 
and lay them on a platter; when cold add to the 
liquid one quart of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of 
salt, whole spice and mace; when it comes to a boil 
add one lemon; pour over the oysters; place in glass 
jars. 

French Pickles. 

One peck green tomatoes and six large onions, 
sliced; mix these, throw over them a teacupful of 
salt and let them stand over night; next day drain 
thoroughly and boil fifteen minutes in one quart of 
vinegar mixed with two quarts of water. Mix to- 



PICKLES. 151 

gather four quarts of vinegar, two pounds of brown 
sugar, half a pound white mustard seed, two table- 
spoonfuls allspice (ground), the same of cinnamon, 
cloves, ginger and ground mustard; put in the to- 
matoes and boil all together fifteen minutes. 

Okra and Tomatoes. 
Cut the okra in thin slices, and pare and slice the 
tomatoes. Have one pint of tomatoes to two of okra. 
Put them in a stew-pan with a teaspoonful of salt and 
a little pepper. Stew fifteen minutes, then turn into 
a deep dish; add a tablespoonful of butter. Cover 
with bread or cracker crumbs, dot with butter and 
bake half an hour. 

Lemon Pickle. 
Peel very thinly six lemons, take off the white, 
cut the pulp into slices and remove the seeds. Put 
the peel and pulp into a jar. sprinkle with two ounces 
of salt; cover the jar and let it stand three days, then 
boil in a quart of vinegar six cloves, three blades of 
mace, two or three shallots and two ounces of bruised 
mustard seed; pour it boiling hot over the lemons in 
the jar, and when cold tie over; in a month strain and 
bottle the liquor and use the lemon as pickle. This 
is a nice sauce for veal cutlets and minced veal. 

Pickled French Beans. 
Gather them before they become stringy; without 
taking off the ends, put them into a very strong brine 
until they become yellow; drain the liquor from them 
and wipe them dry with a cloth. Put them into a 
stone jar by the fire, and pour boiling vinegar upon 
them every twenty-four hours; keep covered to pre- 
vent the escape of the steam; in four or five days they 
will become green. 



1-52 PICKLES. 

Pickled Nasturtiums. 

Gather them young; lay them in salt and water one 
night. Drain; then cover with hot vinegar, boiled 
with a little black and Jamaica pepper. A couple of 
capsicums put into the jar will be a great improve- 
ment. 

Chili Sauce. 

Twelve ripe tomatoes, four ripe peppers, two 
onions, two tablespoonfuls salt, two tablespoonfuls 
sugar, three teacups vinegar and a little cinnamon; 
peel the tomatoes and chop them fine; also the pep- 
pers and onions, and boil all together one hour. 
Canned tomatoes may be used if fresh ones are not at 
hand. 

To Pickle Walnuts. 

When they will bear a pin to go into them, put 
them in a brine of salt and water, boiled, and strong 
enough to bear an egg on it, being quite cold first. 
It must be well skimmed while boiling. Let them 
soak SIX days; then change the brine and let them 
stand six more; then drain them, and pour over them 
in a jar a pickle of the best white-wine vinegar, with a 
good quantity of pepper, pimento, ginger, mace, 
cloves, mustard seed and horseradish, all boiled to- 
gether, but cold. To every hundred of walnuts put 
six spoonfuls of mustard seed and two or three heads 
of garlic or shallot, but the latter is least strong. 
Thus done, they will be good for several years, if 
close covered. The air will soften them. They will 
not be fit to eat under six months. When the wal- 
nuts are used, boil up the pickle with half a pound of 
anchovies to a gallon, and a teaspoonful of cayenne, 
and you will have a very good catsup. 



PICKLES. 153 

Sweet Pickles. 

Seven pouiuds fruit, three pounds sugar^ one pint 
vinegar, one ounce each of cloves and cinnamon, tied 
in a thin muslin bag. 

Tomato Catsup — No. 1. 
One-half bushel ripe tomatoes cut in. halves; 
sprinkle with salt and leave them over night. Drain 
off the juice, add one pint of water, and stew slow^ly 
in a large preserving-kettle till quite soft. Then put 
through a colander to free from skins. Return to the 
kettle and add one cupful of salt, one-half ounce cay- 
enne pepper, one ounce powdered cloves, one ounce 
each of nutmeg and mace. Simmer slowly for two or 
three hours, and add, when nearly cooked, one bottle 
of cooking wine. When quite cold, bottle and cork 
tight. 

Tomato Catsup — No. 2. 
Boil one bushel of tomatoes in a granite ware ket- 
tle until soft, press them through a sieve; then add 
half a gallon of vinegar, two ounces of cloves, one 
and a half pint of salt, one ounce cayenne pepper, 
five heads of garlic skinned or chopped, two ounces 
of whole pepper, one pound of allspice, five ounces of 
mace, and five ounces of celery seed. Mix all to- 
gether, and boil until it is reduced one-half. Strain and 
bottle it. Black pepper may be used instead of cay- 
enne, and onions instead of garlic. 

Grape Catsup. 
Take five pounds of grapes and one pint of vine- 
gar; cook until you can strain through a sieve; to the 
juice add two pounds of sugar, one tablespoonful of 
cinnamon, half a teaspoonful of salt, one of black 
pepper and one of cloves. Cook down to two quarts 



154 PICKLES. 

Mushroom Catsup — No. 1. 

Take the largest broad mushrooms, break them into 
an earthen pan, strew over salt, and stir them now 
and then for three days. Then let them stand for 
twelve days; strain and boil the liquor with Jamaica 
and black peppers, mace, ginger, a clove or two, and 
some mustard seed. When cold, bottle it, and secure 
the corks as above, leaving the spice in. At the end 
of three months strain the liquor, and boil with fresh 
spice, which put into the bottles; and in a cool place 
it will keep two or three years. 

MusHRoOiM Catsup — No. 2. 

Take a stew-pan full of the large flap mushrooms, 
that are not worm-eaten, and the skin and fringe of 
those you have pickled; throw a handful of salt 
among them and set them by a slov^ fire; they will 
produce a great deal of liquor, which u must strain; 
then put to it four ounces of shallots, two cloves of 
garlic, a good deal of pepper, ginger, mace, cloves, 
and a few bay-leaves; boil slowly, and skim very well. 
When cold, bottle, and cork close. In two months 
boil it up again with a little fresh spice, and a stick of 
horseradish, and it will then keep a year, which mush- 
room catsup rarely does, if not boiled a second time. 

Walj^ut Catsup. 

Boil or simmer a gallon of the expressed juice of 
walnuts when they are tender, and skim it well; then 
put in two pounds of anchovies, bones and liquor, 
two pounds of shallots, one ounce each of cloves, 
mace and pepper, and one clove of garlic. Let all 
simmer till the shallots sink; then put the liquor in a 
pan till cold, bottle, and divide the spice to each. 
Cork closely, and tie a bladder over. It will keep 



PICKLES. 155 

twenty years in the greatest perfection, but it is not 
fit for use the first year. Be very careful to express 
the juice at home; for it is generally adulterated, if 
bought. Some people make liquor of the outside 
shell, when the nut is ripe; but neither the flavor nor 
color is then so fine; and the shells being generally 
taken off by dirty hands, there is much objection to 
this mode. 

India Pickle. 

Lay a pound of white ginger in water one night; 
then scrape, slice, and lay it in salt in a pan till the 
other ingredients shall be ready. Peel, slice, and 
salt a pound of garlic three days; then put it in the 
sun to dry. Salt, and dry long pepper in the same 
way. Prepare the various vegetables as follows: 
Quarter small white cabbages, salt three days, 
squeeze, and set them in the sun to dry. Cauliflow- 
ers cut in their branches; take off the green from 
radishes; cut celery in three-inch lengths; also young 
French beans whole, after being stringed; likewise, 
shoots of elder, which will look like bamboo. Ap- 
ples and cucumbers of the least seedy sort; cut them 
in slices, or quarters, if not too large. All must be 
salted, drained, and dried in the sun, except the lat- 
ter, over which you must pour boiling vinegar, and 
in twelve hours drain them, but no salt must be used. 
Put the spice, garlic, a quarter of a pound of mus- 
tard seed, and as much vinegar as you think enough 
for the quantity you are to pickle, into a large stone 
jar, and one ounce of turmeric to be ready when the 
vegetables shall be dried. When they are ready ob- 
serve the following directions: Put some of them 
into a two-quart stone jar, and pour over them one 
quart of boiling vinegar. Next day take out those 
vegetables; and when drained, put them into a large 



156 PICKLES. 

Stock jar, and boiling the vinegar, pour it over some 
more of the vegetables; let them lie a night, and do 
as above. Thus proceed till you have cleansed each 
set from the dust which must inevitably fall on them 
by being so long in doing- then, to every gallon of 
vinegar put two ounces of flour of mustard, mixing, 
by degrees, with a little of it boiling hot. The whole 
of the vinegar should have been previously scalded, 
but set to be cool before it was put to the spice. Stop 
the jar tight. 

Pickled Peaches — No. 1. 

Twelve pounds peaches, seven pounds sugar, 
three pints vinegar; scald the sugar and vinegar, and 
when hot put in the fruit. Let it remain until heated 
through; spice to taste with cinnamon and cloves. 
Cover tight. 

Pickled Peaches — No. 2. 

Seven pounds peaches, three or four pounds brown 
sugar, one quart vinegar, two tablespoonfuls whole 
cloves, two tablespoonfuls allspice, one tablespoon- 
ful mace. Boil together and pour over the peaches. 
Let them stand twenty-four hours, and repeat the 
boiling three or four times. 

Pickled Plums. 

One peck plums, seven pounds sugar, half pint vin- 
egar; dissolve together the sugar and vinegar, and 
add the plums; boil three hours, stirring it all the 
time, and take out the stones while boiling; add two 
tablespoonfuls allspice, two of ground cloves. 

Pickled Pears. 

To one peck of pears take seven pounds sugar. 
Boil the fruit in the syrup without the vinegar. 



PICKLES. 157 

Pickled Cherries. 

To twelve pounds of fruit put seven pounds of sugar 
and one pint of vinegar; scald and pour upon the 
fruit three or four mornings in succession; the last 
morning boil the juice thick. 

Pickled Blackberries. 

Twelve pounds blackberries, three pounds sugar, 
two quarts vinegar and two ounces cloves; scald all 
together; leave twenty-four hours; drain off the syrup 
and scald; leave twenty-four hours and scald all to- 
gether. 

Raspberry Vinegar. 

Put a pound of fine raspberries into a china bowl, 
and pour upon it a quart of the best whi-te-wine vine- 
gar; next day strain the liquor on a pound of fresh 
raspberries; the following day do the same, but do 
not squeeze the fruit, only drain the liquor as dry as 
you can from it. 

Shallot Vinegar. 

Split six or eight shallots; put them into a quart 
bottle, and fill it up with vinegar; shake often; stop 
it, and in a month it will be fit for use. 

Sugar Vinegar. 

To every gallon of spring water put two pounds of 
the very coarsest sugar; boil and skim thoroughly; 
then put one quart of cold water to every gallon of 
hot. When cool, put into it a toast spread with yeast. 
Stir it nine days; then barrel, and set it in a place 
where the sun will lie on it, with a bit of slate on the 
bunghole. Observe the caution about the barrel, as 
in gooseberry vinegar. Make in March; it will be 
ready in six months. 



158 PICKLES. 

Wine Vinegar. 

The raisins must not be pressed, but drained from 
the liquor; lay them in a tub, in a heap, to heat. In 
three or four days add fifteen gallons of water to 
every hundred weight. Let the mash be well beaten, 
and stirred often, for forty-eight hours; then strain 
and press them in a hair bag. Put the liquor into a 
barrel, with a toast covered with yeast. Mind that 
the cask be full, and set over a tub to work. When 
it ceases to ferment, cover the bung-hole with a piece 
of slate. Keep it in a warm place. 

Gooseberry Vinegar. 

Boil spring water, and when cold, put to every 
three quarts a quart of bruised gooseberries in a large 
tub. Let them remain sixty hours, stirring often; 
then strain through a hair bag, and to each gallon of 
liquor add a pound of the coarsest sugar. Put 
it into a barrel and a toast and yeast; cover the 
bung-hole with a bit of slate, etc., as above. Set the 
barrel in the sun, observing that the barrel be well 
painted, and the iron hoops all firm. The greater 
quantity of sugar and fruit, the stronger the vinegar; 
and as this is particularly useful for pickles, it might 
be well to make it of double the strength for that 
purpose. 

Nasturtiums for Capers. 

Keep them a few days after they are gathered; then 
pour boiling vinegar over them, and, when cold, 
cover. They will not be fit to eat for some months; 
but are then finely flavored and by many preferred 
to capers. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 159 



1(50 ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



YEAST 



Hop Yeast. 

Tie two ounces of hops in a thin bag, and boil 
them in three quarts of water; moisten with cold 
water a sufficient quantity of flour, and stir in the hop 
yeast while boiling hot; add a tablesJDoonful of salt; 
let it stand until it is lukewarm, and then add a pint 
of old yeast; when it is light, cover it, and stand it in 
a cool place for use. 

Potato Yeast — No. 1. 

Boil a quarter of a peck of potatoes, mash them 
fine, and thin them a little with the water in which 
they have been boiled; add some salt and a table- 
spoonful of brown sugar; when lukew^arm, stir in 
about half a pint or more of old yeast, let it rise, then 
cover it closely, and put it in a cool place. 

Potato Yeast — No. 2. 

One teacupful of grated raw potato, one table- 
spoonful of salt, one-half teacupful of sugar, mix and 
pour over it two quarts of boiling water; when luke- 
warm add half of a yeast cake or some yeast to raise 
it; let it stand until light, when it is better to be kept 
in a cool place tightly covered. It will keep longer 
in winter than summer. 



162 YEAST. 

Augusta's Yeast. 

Two? teaspoonfuls pressed hops, one-half cup salt, 
one cup sugar, one cup flour; three large potatoes 
boiled with the hops, and put hot with the other in- 
gredients; strain the hop water and pour it over all. 
Set it in a warm place to rise. 

Yeast Cakes. 

Make the yeast as directed above, and when it has 
become quite light, stir in as much corn meal as it 
will take to roll out in cakes, and place them on a 
cloth in a dry place, taking care to turn them every 
day. At the end of a week, or ten days, they may be 
put into a bag, and should be kept in a dry place. 
When used, soak a cake in some milk-warm water, 
mash it up smooth, and use it the same as the other 
yeast. 



BREAD AND BISCUITS. 



-J=®^- 



Yeast Bread. 

Six quarts of flour, two quarts of warm water, a 
tablespoonful of salt, three tablespoonfuls of lard. 
Put the flour into a deep pan, heap it round the sides, 
leaving a hollow in the centre, and put into it a quart 
of warm water, the salt, lard and yeast; have ready 
three pints more of warm water, and with as much of 
it as may be necessary, make the whole of it into a 
rather soft dough, kneading it well with both hands. 
When it is smooth and shining, strew a little f.our 
on it, lay a thickly-folded cloth over the pan, and set 
it in a warm place by the fire, for four or five hours in 
cold weather, or all night; then knead it again; cover 
it over, and set it to rise again. This bread can also 
be made of rye or graham flour. 

Margaret's Wheat Bread. 

Make the sponge at night with one pint of warm 
water, one coffee-cupful of potato yeast, a little salt, a 
little sugar and about a quart of flour; let it stand 
over night; when light, in the .morning, put six 
quarts of flour into a pan, make a hole in the centre, 
pour in the sponge, together with a pint and a half of 
warm milk; mix and let it stand until light, then mix 
again, kneading a good deal; allow it to stand until 



164 BREAD AND BISCUITS. 

light again; mix and put into the bread pans; when 
light set it in the oven. A coffee-cupful of mashed 
potatoes stirred into the sponge improves it. 

Wheat Bread — No. 1. 

One quart lukewarm water, salt, one-half cup yeast, 
one-half cup sugar, two large spoonfuls molasses, one 
large spoonful shortening, eight and a half cups flour. 
Do not knead it. Stir it with a spoon to a moderately 
stiff batter; let it stand over night. In the morning 
put It in pans, and let it rise; then bake. This makes 
two loaves. 

Wheat Bread — No. 2. 

One cake yeast, one cup sugar, one quart of milk, 
one tablespoonful salt, flour to make a thin dough. 
Let it rise, then stir dow^n and put in pans; let it rise 
again, then bake. 

Wheat and Indian Bread. 

Put three pints of water over the fire; when it is 
boiling hot, add a large tablespoonful of salt, stir into 
it sweet white corn meal until it is a thick batter; con- 
tinue to stir it for ten minutes, that it may not burn, 
then turn it into a dish; stir into it a quart of cold 
water; when it is cool enough to bear your hand in 
it, pour it into a bowl to which are seven pounds of 
wheat-flour, heaped around the sides so as to leave a 
hollow in the centre; add to it a gill of baker's yeast, 
and half a teaspoonful of saleratus, dissolved in a little 
hot water, then work the whole into a smooth dough; 
work it or knead for nearly an hour, then strew a lit- 
tle flour over it, lay a thickly-folded cloth over, and 
set in a warm place for five or six hours in summer, 
or mix at night in winter; when light, work it down, 



BREAD AND BISCUITS. 165 

set it to rise for an hour, then heat the oven, work the 
bread down, and divide it into loaves, and bake, accord- 
ing to their size, in a quick oven; when taken from the 
oven, turn them over in the pans, and set them to be- 
come cold; if the crust is hard, wrap them in a towel 
as soon as taken from the oven. 

Unfermented Bread. 

To make good unfermented bread, graham flour 
should be mixed with water, or milk, and a little salt, 
and baked in small loaves, in cast iron bread-pans, or 
cast iron '*gem pans." The oven and pans should be 
hot, the dough made of the ordinary consistence, and 
the pans half full. The heat coagulates the gluten on 
the outer surface of the dough, thereby preventing 
the escape of steam and causing the bread to rise in 
a moment. If the oven is sufficiently hot, the bread 
bakes before the steam escapes, -and is light and 
wholesome. 

Quick Bread. 

With one quart of flour mix two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder and half a teaspoonful of salt; add 
sufficient milk or water to make a soft dough; mould 
it into loaves, and bake at once in a hot oven. This 
bread may be made of graham flour with the addition 
of half a cup of molasses. 

HoYLETON Bread. 

Five cups of Indian meal, seven cups of wheat 
flour, two cups of rye meal, four cups of buttermilk, 
two cups of sweet milk, one-half cup of molasses, two 
teaspoonfuls of salt, two teaspoonfuls of soda. Put it 
into a three-quart pail that has a cover; let it stand 
near the fire thirty minutes with the cover off, to rise, 
then put on the cover, and bake or steam four hours. 



166 bread and biscuits. 

Corn Biscuits. 

One pound of Indian meal, three-quarters of a 
pound of wheat flour, two ounces of butter, six eggs, 
one and one-half ounces of baking powder, one quart 
of sweet milk and a little salt. Bake in pattypans in 
a quick oven. 

German Bread. 

One pint of milk well boiled, one teacupful of 
sugar, two tablespoonfuls of nice lard or butter, two- 
thirds of a teacupful of baker's yeast. Make a rising 
with the milk and yeast; when light, mix in the sugar 
and shortening, with flour enough to make as soft a 
dough as can be handled. Flour the paste-board 
well, roll out about one-half inch thick; put this 
quantity into two large pans; make about a dozen in- 
dentures with the finger on the top; put a small piece 
of butter in each; and sift over the whole one table- 
spoonful of sugar, mixed with one teaspoonful of cin- 
namon. Let this stand for a second rising, when per- 
fectly light, bake in a quick oven fifteen or twenty 
minutes. 

Corn Bread. 

One quart of sour milk, two tablespoonfuls of sal- 
eratus, four ounces of butter, three eggs, three table- 
spoonfuls of flour, and corn meal sufficient to make a 
stiff batter. 

Mississippi Corn Bread. 

One pint of buttermilk, two eggs, one pint of In- 
dian meal, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, a lit- 
tle salt, one teaspoonful of soda. 

Graham Bread. 
Two cups of sweet milk, two cups of sour or butter- 
milk, one-half cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of 
soda. Salt, and stir in flour to thicken. 



bread and biscuits. 167 

Boston Brown Bread. 

One-half cup of flour, one cup of Indian meal, two 
cups of rye flour, two-thirds cup of molasses, two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream tartar, one teaspoonful of soda — 
mix soft with cold water or milk; tablespoonful of salt. 
Steam three hours. 

Good Brown Bread. 

Two teacupfuls of Indian meal, one cup of flour, 
one cup of buttermilk or sour milk, one cup of sweet 
milk, one teaspoonful of soda, one teacupful of mo- 
lasses, one-half teaspoonful of salt. Steam three 
hours and bake one-half hour. 

Biscuits. 

Two quarts of flour, two cups of sour cream or 
milk, two cups of buttermilk, six teaspoonfuls of 
cream tartar, four teaspoonfuls of soda and a little salt. 

Cream Biscuits. 

One quart of flour, three teaspoonfuls of cream 
tartar, two teaspoonfuls of soda, one teacupful of 
cream, and one teacupful of buttermilk. 

German Biscuits. 

Take one quart of milk, boil it and then let it cool 
to a blood heat; add flour enough to make a sponge, 
same as for bread, and one teacupful of malt yeast; 
let this stand over night; in the morning take a small 
teacupful of butter, partly melted, add to it two small 
teacupfuls of rolled sugar; after beating these a little, 
add four eggs, then beat the butter, sugar and eggs 
thoroughly, adding a teaspoonful of salt; add all to 
the sponge, beating well w^hen mixing. 



168 bread and biscuits. 

Graham Biscuits. 

Stir with a spoon tepid water into graham flour 
until stiff enough to form into a dough as soft as can 
be kneaded; roll out when sufficiently kneaded to be 
well mixed, and cut into cakes three-quarters of an inch 
in thickness. Lay them in baking pans so they will 
not touch each other, and bake in a quick oven, let- 
ting them remain long enough to become brown and 
crisp, which, with a good heat, will require about 
twenty-five minutes, or taking them out when just 
done through, as one prefers; if not sufficiently baked 
they will be heavy at the bottom. Put them on a 
grate or colander to cool, that they may not steam 
arid become heavy. This bread is excellent for 
growing children and for brain-workers. None of 
its nutritive qualities are diminished by fermentation, 
and eaten with good cow's milk and some sub-acid 
fruit it forms perfect food. 

Crackers. 

One pint of water, one teacupful of butter, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, two of cream of tartar, and flour 
enough to make as stiff as biscuit. Let them stand 
in the oven until dried through. They do not need 
pounding. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



169 



;170 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



Muffins — No. 1. 
One pint of milk, piece of butter the size of an egg, 
one-half cup of yeast, two eggs, and flour enough to 
make a stiff batter; put the milk on to boil and put 
the butter into it; when the milk is nearly cool add 
the eggs beaten, the yeast and flour; let it rise six 
hours; bake in muffin rings. 

Muffins — No. 2. 
Three cups of milk, one tablespoonful of melted 
butter, two eggs, beaten stiff, three tablespoonfuls 
of yeast, one tablespoonful of white sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of salt and one-quarter teaspoonful of soda; 
flour to make a pretty stiff batter. Make all the in- 
gredients, except the eggs, into a sponge, and set it 
to rise over night; half an hour before breakfast add 
the eggs and the soda (dissolved in hot water), beaten 
all together hard; part into muffin rings; let them 
stand on the hearth ten minutes, and bake about 
twenty minutes in a brisk oven. 

Rye AND Indian Muffins. 
Two cups of Indian meal, two cups of rye flour, 
half a cup of yeast. Let it rise over night; in the 
morning add one teaspoonful of soda, half a cup of 
molasses, a little salt, and bake. 



172 breakfast and tea cakes. 

French Muffins. 
One quart of milk, four eggs, one-half cup of 
sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, one cup of yeast; make 
a stiff batter; in the morning add one cup of half 
lard and half butter, one teaspoonful of soda; stir 
this in and let it rise; when light, put into muffin 
rings, without stirring, and bake. 

Saratoga Graham Muffins. 
Three cups of sour milk, one-half cup of molasses^ 
three small teaspoonfuls of soda, a little salt. Put the 
molasses in the sour milk and add the soda and salt. 
Mix in one quart of graham flour, and bake in muf- 
fin rings. This makes a delicious muffin. 

Water Muffins. 
One quart of flour, half teacupful of yeast, table- 
spoonful of salt, warm water enough to make a thick 
batter, beat it with a spoon. Let it rise eight liours. 
Bake in muffin rings half full, and bake them fifteen 
or twenty minutes 

Graham Muffins. * 

Six cups of graham meal, two cups of flour, tw^o 
teaspoonfuls of salt, two-thirds cup of molasses, one 
teaspoonful of soda; mix wnth sour milk. Bake in 
muffin rings. 

Mrs. H.'s Muffins. 
One pint of sour milk, teaspoonful of soda, one 
egg, and flour to make a thick batter. 

Breakfast Muffins. 
Two eggs, well beaten, one cup of sugar, one lump 
of butter the size of an egg, one pint of milk, one 
quart of flour and three teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der Bake in a quick oven. 



breakfast and tea cakes. \7s 

Mrs. D 's Muffins. 

Melt half a teacupf ul of butter in a pint and a half of 
milk; add a little salt, a gill of yeast, and four eggs; 
stir in flour enough to make a batter rather stiffer 
than for griddle cakes; if kept in a moderately warm 
place It will rise sufficiently in eight or nine hours. 

Hominy Muffins. 

Having washed a pint of small hominy through two 
or three waters, pour boiling water over it and cover; 
let it soak several hours, and then put it into a thick 
saucepan with half a pint of boiling water, and let it 
boil until soft enough to wash; drain it and mix well 
with a pint of white corn meal or wheat flour, a little 
salt, a pint and a half of milk, and two tablespoon- 
fuls of yeast. Cover and set in a warm place until 
very light, with the surface covered with bubbles; 
butter muffin rings, set them on a hot griddle, pour 
into each a portion of the mixture, and bake brown 
on both sides. Pull open with the fingers and butter 
while hot. 

Rice Muffins. 

Boil soft and dry one-half cup of rice, stir in three 
spoonfuls of sugar, piece of butter the size of an egg, 
a little salt, one pint of sweet milk, one cup of yeast 
and two quarts of flour. Let it rise all night. If sour 
in the morning, add a little soda dissolved in milk, 
and bake in muffin rings. 

New England Pancakes. 

Mix a pint of milk, five spoonfuls of fine flour, 
seven yolks and four whites of eggs, and a very little 
salt; fry them very thin in fresh butter, and between 
each strew sugar and cinnamon. Serve six or eight 
at once. 



174 breakfast and tea cakes. 

Brown, or Graham Pancakes. 
Beat one egg and stir into a cupful of sour milk or 
cream v/ith one small teaspoonful of soda; add one 
teaspoonful of sugar, a pin'^h of salt, and then stir 
rapidly or beat with a fork, sufficient graham flour to 
make a stiff batter; drop in a pan with boiling lard 
and turn quickly as pancakes. They will be light and 
crisp; and are delicious with omelet and good coffee. 

Bread Pancakes, with Water. 
Soak pieces of stale bread till quite soft; drain 
them through a sieve, and rub the bread through a 
colander. To one quart of this add three eggs and 
milk to make a thick batter. Bake on a griddle. 

Soda Pancakes. 
One pint of milk, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tar- 
tar, one teaspoonful of soda, flour to make a thin bat- 
ter. Fry on a griddle. 

Corn Griddles, to Eat with Meat, 
Twelve ears of sweet corn, grate off the grains, two 
eggs, pepper, salt, and a very little butter, half a tea- 
cup of flour, half teacup of milk. Stir well together, 
and fry on a griddle. 

Ground Rice Pancakes. 
Boil a quart of milk; rub smooth a teacupful of 
ground rice in a gill or two of cold milk, and stir it 
into the boiling milk; add a little salt, and while it is 
scalding hot stir in flour enough to make the right 
thickness for baking. When cool, add a teacup of 
yeast and four eggs. Let it rise light. 

Flap Jacks. 
Half coffee-cup scalded Indian meal, one pint of sour 
milk, teaspoonful soda, flour to thicken. 



breakfast and tea cakes. 175 

Rice Pancakes. 
Put a teacupful of rice into twoteacupfuls of water, 
and boil until the water is nearly absorbed; then add 
a pint and a half of milk, and boil slowly until the 
rice is very soft. Fry on a griddle. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 
One quart of buckwheat flour, one teaspoonful of 
salt; stir in warm water enough to make a thin bat- 
ter; beat in thoroughly four level tablespoonfuls of 
home-made yeast. Set the batter in a warm place. 
Stir in a teaspoonful of soda in the morning. 

Sally Lunn — No. 1. 
Six cups of light dough, one-half cup of milk, one- 
half cup of butter, two eggs and two spoonfuls of 
white sugar; add flour enough to make it the consis- 
tency of thick batter; mix well and pour into greased 
bake pans. Let them set in a warm place one-half 
hour, and bake by a slow fire. 

Sally Lunn — No. 2. 
Six cups of flour, two cups of milk, two-thirds cup 
of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of butter, four eggs, four 
teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, two teaspoonfuls of 
soda. Eat while hot. 

Rice Cakes. 
Mix together half a pound of very soft boiled rice, 
one-fourth pound of butter, one quart of milk, six 
eggs, and enough flour to form a thin batter. 

Susan's Rye Drop Cakes. 
One cup of Indian meal, one cup of rye meal, one- 
half cup of yeast, a little molasses. Let them rise, 
add a little soda, if sour, a little salt, and bake in a 
quick oven: 



176 breakfast and tea cakes. 

Rye Drop Cakes. 

One quart of milk, two eggs, piece of butter the 
size of an egg, half a teacup of white sugar, two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda; 
rye meal to make a stiff batter. Fill your pans half 
full, and bake half an hour. 

Pan Doddlings. 

Three teacupfuls of fine rye meal, three teacupfuls 
of Indian meal, one egg, three tablespoonfuls of mo- 
lasses; add a little salt, allspice and sufficient sweet 
milk to form a batter stiff enough to drop from a 
spoon. Fry them in hot lard until a nice brown. 

Graham Gems. 

Two cupfuls of milk, one tablespoonful of butter, 
two tablespoonfuls of molasses, one teaspoonful of 
salt; add flour enough to make a stiff batter, three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. Drop into hot gem 
pans, and bake in a quick oven. 

Breakfast Gems. 

One cup of sweet milk, one and one-half cups of 
flour, one egg, one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder, beaten together five minutes. 
Bake in hot gem pans in a hot oven about fifteen 
minutes. 

Rye Cakes. 

One pint of scalding hot milk, one-half cup of In- 
dian meal, one-half cup of sugar, one cup of rye meal, 
two cups of flour; cool, and then add a little salt, one- 
half a cup of yeast. Let this rise over night. In the 
morning add one-half teaspoonful of saleratus and 
two eggs. 



breakfast and tea cakes. 177 

Fried Mush. 

The night before, stir into two quarts of boiling water 
a little salt and one pound of farina; boil for ten min- 
utes, and pour it into a shallow dish to cool; next 
morning cut it into slices, and fry in lard light brown. 
This is far superior to corn meal mush. 

Little Milk Cakes. 

Place on a table or slab one pound of flour, half a 
teaspoonful of salt, two of sugar, three of fresh yeast, 
two ounces of butter, and one egg; have some new 
milk, pour in a gill, mix all together, adding more 
milk to form a nice dough; then put some flour in a 
cloth, put the dough in, and lay it in a warm place; 
let it rise for about two hours; cut it in pieces the size 
of eggs, roll them even, and mark the top with a 
sharp knife; egg over and bake quick. Serve hot or 
cold. 

Johnny Cake. 

One cup of Indian meal, two cups of flour, sifted to- 
gether with three tablespoonfuls of baking powder, 
one cup of sugar, two eggs, one tablespoonful of lard 
melted in warm water, a pinch of salt, and sufficient 
water to mix. 

Connecticut Corn Cakes. 

Mix in the following order one cup of fine sifted 
"golden" corn meal, one cup of sifted flour, half cup 
sugar, one beaten egg, one cup of sour milk or cream, 
two tablespoonfuls of butter (one if cream is used), 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the milk, a little 
salt. Drop from the spoon into greased patty pans, 
and bake in a hot oven fifteen minutes. These are 
nice split open and toasted for breakfast, or to accom- 
pany Boston baked beans. 



178 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

Corn Cakes. 

Boil a pint of milk and pour it upon five table- 
spoonfuls of corn meal, stirring all the time. Add 
three well-beaten eggs, a piece of butter, half the size 
of an eggy and a little salt. Wet four tablespoonfuls 
of flour in a little cold milk and mix all together. Stir 
the mixture just before putting it into the pans, 
which must be well buttered and slightly warmed. 
Bake twenty or thirty minutes. 

Dixie Corn Cakes. 

Two cups of Indian corn meal, one cup of flour, 
two teaspoonf uls of cream of tartar, one of soda, a little 
salt, resift, rub in a tablespoonful of lard, two of 
sugar; mix with enough milk and water to make a 
thick batter. Bake tw^enty-five minutes in a quick 
oven, either in shallow pans or moulds. 

Boston Corn Cakes. 

Two eggs, three-fourths coffee-cup of sugar, two 
cups of sour milk, two cups of Indian meal, one cup 
of flour, one-half teaspoonful of soda and salt. 

Round Lake Corn Cakes. 

One cup each of flour, sugar, Indian meal and milk, 
two eggs, one tablespoonful of butter and one and a 
half teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Kentucky Corn Meal Gems. 

Take two cups of Indian meal, one cup of flour, 
one pint of sour milk, two eggs, one tablespoonful of 
white sugar, a piece of butter the size of a nutmeg, a 
pinch of salt, one teaspoonful of soda; if buttermilk 
is used no butter is needed. Mix thoroughly, and 
bake in gem irons twenty-five minutes. 



breakfast and tea cakes. 179 

Georgia Indian Cake. 

One cup of milk one teaspoonful of sugar, one egg, 
butter half the size of an egg, one cup of Indian meal, 
one and one-half cups of Hour, one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, a little 
salt. 

Indian Meal Puffs. 

Into one quart of boiling milk stir eight spoonfuls 
of Indian meal, and f(Our spoonfuls of sugar. Boil 
five minutes, stirring constantly; when cool add six 
well-beaten eggs. Bake in buttered cups half an 
hour. 

Rye and Indian Johnny Cakes. 

Two cups of rye, two cups of Indian meal, a small 
teaspoonful of saleratus, a little salt, sufficient sour 
milk to make a stiff batter. Bake in cakes on a grid- 
dle; split open and butter them. Send to the table 
hot. 

Parker House Rolls. 

Rub a tablespoonful of lard into two quarts of 
flour; make a sponge with one pint of cold boiled 
milk, one-half cup of yeast, one-half cup of sugar; let 
it stand until light, and knead twice; roll out one- 
half inch thick, cut with a biscuit-cutter, then fold 
one side over upon the other. Rub a little butter on 
the top before baking. 

Delmonico Rolls. 

Warm one ounce of butter in a pint of milk; put to 
it a spoonful and a half of yeast of small beer and a 
little salt; put two pounds of Hour in a pan and mix 
with the above; let it rise an hour. Knead well and 
bake in a hot oven. 



180 -breakfast and tea cakes. 

Brentford Rolls. 

Mix well two pounds of flour, a little salt, two 
ounces of sifted sugar, four ounces of butter and two 
eggs beaten with two teaspoonf uls of yeast, and about 
a pint of milk. Knead the dough well, and set it to 
rise before the fire. Make twelve rolls, butter tin 
plates and set them before the fire to rise until they 
become the proper size. Bake half an hour. 

Flannel Rolls. 

One cup of sweet milk, whites of two eggs, two- 
thirds cup of butter, flour to make a thick batter, one- 
half cup of yeast, two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Let it 
rise over night. Add the eggs and butter in the 
morning. 

Cincinnati Rolls. 

Take three-quarts and a pint of flour; make a hole 
in the centre of the flour and put in about a teacup- 
ful of milk warmed like new milk, and a coffee-cupful 
of potato yeast; mix and let it rise three or four 
hours. If to be made for the evening the sponge 
should be set about 9 o'clock in the morning; then 
add one pint more of warm milk, knead and let it 
stand three hours, then mix in a little sugar and salt 
and one-half pound of butter. 

French Rolls. 

Rub an ounce of butter into a pound of flour; mix 
one egg beaten, a little sweet yeast and as much milk 
as will make a dough of a middling stiffness. Beat it 
well, but do not knead. Let it rise and bake on time. 

The Superb Rolls. 

One quart of milk, one cup of butter, two eggs. 
Let the dough rise once, take it out, knead it over and 



BREAKFAST AND TBA CAKES. 181 

let it rise again; after this roll it out, cut it out with a 
tumbler, double together, roll, fashion, and let it rise 
in the pans half an hour before baking. 

Unique Rolls. 

One pint of new milk, one cup of yeast, one egg, a 
teaspoonful of flour; make into a stiff batter. Let it 
rise over night, but do not put in the saleratus until 
morning. Make the batter so stiff that you can form 
them into rolls without adding any more flour. Let 
it rise, after being formed into rolls, as long as pos- 
sible, allowing thirty minutes to bake. 

Dutch Rolls. 
One quart of flour, two eggs, half pint of milk, one 
teaspoonful of butter; one gill of yeast; pour this into 
the flour. It must be mixed softer than bread, and if 
not moist enough add some more milk. Let it rise 
before baking. 

Rusks. 
One pint of dough, one cup of milk, two cups of 
white sugar, the whites of two eggs, two tablespoon- 
fuls of lard, one of butter. Dissolve all but the eggs 
on the stove. Beat the eggs, and then add flour 
enough so it can be rolled easily and cut. 

Harrington Rusks. 
One cup of sugar, one cup of yeast, one cup of 
flour; mix over night; in the morning add half cup 
of sugar, and half cup of butter, rubbed together, two 
eggs, reserving the white of one, beaten to a stiff 
froth with a little sugar, to spread over the tops of the 
rusks. 

Buns. 
Mix one pound and a half of dried flour with half 
a pound of 5ugiar; melt a. pound and two ounces of 



182 BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

butter in a little warm water; add six spoonfuls of 
rose-water, and knead the above into a light dough, 
with half a pint of yeast. 

Light Dough Dumplings. 

One pound of raised dough, made into small 
balls the size of eggs; boil in plenty of water, and 
serve with butter and sugar, or with sauce. Two 
ounces of chopped suet added to the above, or, to 
vary the taste, add a few currants, a little sugar, 
grated nutmeg or lemon peel. 

Breakfast Waffles. 

One quart of sweet milk, four well-beaten eggs, 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, a teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in the milk and strained, and two of cream 
of tartar sifted with the flour. Make the batter as 
thick as pound cake batter. 

Mrs. Bleeker's Waffles. 

. One quart of milk, a little sour if possible; a piece 
of butter the size of an egg; a piece of lard the same 
size; four eggs. Mix well with flour enough to make 
a stiff batter. If the milk is a little sour, enough 
soda to cover a five-cent piece will be sufficient to 
raise the waffles; but if it is fresh a teaspoonful of 
soda must be used; a teaspoonful of salt. Bake as 
quickly as possible. 

Rice Waffles. 

One cup of boiled rice, one pint of milk, two eggs, 
lard the size of a walnut, half teaspoonful of soda, 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful 
of salt. Flour for a thin batter. 



breakfast and tea cakes. 183 

Corn Omelet. 

Boil twelve ears of young corn twenty minutes. 
When done and cold, grate fine and season with salt; 
stir the yolks of five eggs into one gill of cream or 
milk; after being well mixed stir it into the corn; then 
beat the whites to a stiff froth and stir all together. 
Have your butter or lard hot, and then pour in your 
mixture and fry quickly. Serve hot. 

Fritters. 

Make them of any plain batter for pancakes, by 
dropping a small quantity into the pan; put pared 
apples, sliced and cored, into the batter, and fry some 
of it with each slice. Currants, or sliced lemon as 
thin as paper, make an agreeable change. Any sort 
of sweet meat or ripe fruit, may be made into fritters. 

Spanish Fritters. 

Cut the crumb of a French roll into lengths, as 
thick as your finger, in any shape you choose. Soak 
in some cream or milk, nutmeg, sugar, pounded cin- 
namon and an. egg. When well soaked fry to a nice 
brown. Serve with butter, wine and sugar-sauce. 

Potato Fritters. 

Boil two large potatoes, and scrape them fine; beat 
four yolks and three whites of eggs, and add to the 
above one large spoonful of cream, another of sweet 
wine, a squeeze of lemon, and a little nutmeg. Beat 
this batter half an hour at least. Will be extremely 
light. 

Apple Fritters. 

Peel and slice crosswise, a quarter of an inch thick, 
some apples; remove the core, and dip them one 
after the otl^r in the following batter: Put in a basin 



\^i BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

about two ounces of flour, a little salt, two teaspoon- 
fuls of melted butter, and the yolk of an egg, moist- 
ened by degrees with water, stirring all the while 
with a spoon, till forming a smooth consistency, to 
the thickness of cream, then beat the white of the Ggg 
till firm, mixing it with the batter; it is then ready to 
fry. Use any fruit for fritters. 

Corn Fritters. 

One teacupful of sweet milk, three eggs, one pint 
of grated green corn, a little salt, and as much flour as 
will form a batter. Beat the eggs, the yolks and w^hites 
separately. To the yolks add the corn, salt, milk, 
and flour enough to make a batter. Beat the whole 
very hard and then stir in the whites, and drop a 
spoonful at a time into hot lard, and fry on both 
sides a delicate brown. 

To Make Toast. 

Cut slices from a loaf of wheat bread; let them be 
smooth, even, and half an inch thick; have a bright 
fire, and toast them quickly; when both sides are a 
fine brown, lay the slices on a hot plate, and put a 
tin cover over till served. 

Milk Toast. 

Having toasted the bread nicely, spread it with 
sweet butter; make some milk hot, add a small bit of 
butter and a little salt to it, then pour it over the 
toast and serve. Or lay toasted bread in a deep plate 
or dish; to a pint of milk put a teaspoonful of salt 
and a teacupful of butter, make it boiling hot, then 
pour it over the toast. Some persons work a small 
teaspoonful of flour with the butter, and stir it into 
the milk when it is boiling hot; stir it for a few min- 
utes, then pour it over the toast. 



breakfast and tea cakes. 185 

Soft Toast. 

Some invalids like this very much indeed, and 
nearly all do when it is nicely made. Toast well, but 
not too brown, a couple of thin slices of bread; put 
them on a warm plate and pour over boiling water; 
cover quickly with another plate of the same size, and 
drain the water off; remove the upper plate, butter the 
toast, put it in the oven one minute, and then cover 
again with a hot plate and serve at once. 

French Toast. 

Stir two eggs beaten very light into one pint of 
milk; slice some nice light bread, dip into the egg, 
place in a pan of hot butter and fry brown; boil up 
the milk, pour over and serve hot. 

Broiled and Deviled Toast. 

Toast a round of bread, cut a quarter of an inch 
thick; mix in a plate one ounce of butter, half a tea- 
s^ioonful of cayenne, one teaspoonful of mustard, one 
teaspoonful of catsup; spread it over the toast, and 
serve very hot. Broiled sausages may be served on it. 

Welsh Rare-bit on Toast. 

Lay large slices of wheat bread browned delicately 
upon a large platter, and pour over the following 
cream when to t*he consistency of thick cream: One 
coffee-cup of sweet milk, one-half tablespoonful of 
flour, two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese; let the 
milk boil, stir in briskly the cheese and flour, after 
mixing it carefully in one-half cup of milk. 

Cheese Toast. 

Mix some fine butter, made mustard and salt, into 
a mass; spread it on fresh-made thin toasts, and 
grate or scn\pe cheese upon them. 



186 breakfast and tea cakes. 

Anchovy Toast. 

Bone and skin six or eight anchovies; pound them 
to a mass with an ounce of fine butter till the color is 
equal, and then spread it on toast or rusks. 

Stewed Cheese. 

Grate two ounces of cheese, put it into a basin, and 
mix with it a small teacupful of cream, and an egg" 
beaten and strained. Put into a small saucepan an 
ounce of butter, or less if the cheese be very fat; let 
it melt; then stir in the other ingredients, and boil 
until well incorporated. Serve hot, either a little 
browned or not. 

Roast Cheese. 

Grate three ounces of cheese, mix it with the yolks 
of two eggs, four ounces of grated bread, and three 
ounces of butter; beat the whole well in a mortar, 
with a dessert-spoonful of mustard, and a little salt 
and pepper. Toast some bread, cut it into proper 
pieces, lay the paste thick upon them, put them into 
an oven, covered with a dish, till hot through; re- 
move the dish, and let the cheese brown a little. 
Serve as hot as possible. 

Cheese Cakes. 

Strain the whey from the curd of two quarts of 
milk; when rather dry, crumble it through a coarse 
sieve, and mix with six ounces of fresh butter, one 
ounce of pounded blanched almonds, a little orange- 
flower water, half a glass of raisin wine, a grated bis- 
cuit, four ounces of currants, some nutmeg and cin- 
namon in fine powder, and beat all the above with 
three eggs, and half a pint of cream, till quite light. 
Then fill the patty-pans three parts full 



breakfast and tea cakes. 187 

Cheese Omelette. 

Into a bowl break eight fresh eggs. Season with 
salt and pepper, and add half a gill of water. Beat well 
with a beatei, and add grated cheese and small lumps 
of butter. Melt some butter in a pan, and fry the 
omelette quickly a delicate brown. Fold over and 
serve very hot. More or less cheese may be added, 
according to taste. 

Pop Overs. 

Four cups of flour, four eggs, four cups of milk, 
piece of butter the size of two nutmegs, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt; melt the butter. 

Oatmeal. 

Soak the meal over night in just water enough to 
moisten it thoroughly. In the morning put it in a 
dish with a tight cover and set it Into boiling water. As 
it swells and seems to become dry, pour over it a lit- 
tle cold water; this will need to be done quite fre- 
quently during the first two hours. Steam three 
hours, keeping the kettle in which the dish is, well 
covered. The mush may be stirred occasionally. 



188 ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. jgg 



CAKE. 



The following is a table of weights and measures, 
which will be found useful in connection with these 
recipes: 

One quart of flour - - . . one pound 
Two cupfuls of butter - - - - one pound 
One generous pint of liquid - - one pound 
Two cups of granulated sugar - - one pound 
Two heaping cupfuls of powdered sugar, one pound 
One pint of finely-chopped meat - - one pound 

The cup used is the common kitchen cup, holding 
half a pint. 

Molasses Cookies. 

Two cups of molasses, one-half cup of lard, one 
tablespoonful of ginger and cloves, and oneteaspoon- 
ful of soda. Enough flour to roll properly. 

Ginger Snaps, 

Two cups of molasses, one-quarter cup of brown 
sugar, one large cup of butter, one-half cup of sour 
milk, two teaspoonfuls of saleratus, three teaspoon- 
fuls of ginger. Melt the molasses and butter to- 
gether, and pour hot upon one quart of flour; then 
add ginger and saleratus. Mix the saleratus with the 
sour milk. 



CAKE. 191 

Graham Ginger Cookies. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one full cup 
of shortening, one-fourth cup of water, one table- 
spoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful of soda and a 
pinch of salt. Add equal portions of graham and 
white flour enough to make a dough to roll nicely. 

Ginger Cookies. 

One cup each of lard, brown sugar and molasses, 
one tablespoonful of ginger, two teaspoonfuls of soda 
dissolved in eight tablespoonfuls of hot water. Roll 
very thin. 

Sugar Cookies — No. 1. 

Three eggs, two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, 
five cups of flour and a small teaspoonful of cold 
water. Dissolve the soda in the water. 

Sugar Cookies — No. 2. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three eggs, 
one teaspoonful of sour milk, one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, and a small half teaspoonful of soda. 

Preserved Ginger Cak£. 

One cup each of butter, brown sugar and molasses, 
two eggs, four and a half cups of flour, one table- 
spoonful each of ginger and cinnamon, four table- 
spoonfuls of brandy, one grated nutmeg, one tea- 
spoonful of soda dissolved in a little warm water, one 
cup of finely-chopped raisins and one preserved gin- 
ger-root cut in strips. Beat the butter to a cream, then 
beat in the sugar, molasses, brandy and spices; then 
the eggs well beaten; stir the soda (dissolved) in the 
molasses; put two teaspoonfuls of baking powder in 
the flour; have two tins well buttered and pour in the 
mixture abouj two inches thick, then sprinkle a layer 



192 ' CAKE. 

of the fruit, then the mixture and add more fruit. 
Keep a layer of the mixture for the top. Bake in a 
moderate oven for an hour, 

Wilson's Ginger Cake. 
One-half cup each of butter and lard, one cup each 
of molasses, brown sugar and sweet milk, three cups 
of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, two 
eggs, one teaspoonful of both ginger and cinnamon, 
and one-half teaspoonful of salt. Mix the shorten- 
ing, molasses and sugar well together, then the eggs, 
well beaten, and the milk and spices. Put the bak- 
ing powder and salt in the flour and sift it in, beat- 
ing all well together before baking. 

Soft Ginger Bread — No. 1. 
One pint of molasses, one cup of butter, one-half 
cup of milk, one-half cup of water, two teaspoonfuls 
of soda, one egg, four cups of flour and a little gin- 
ger. First mix the soda with the molasses, then add 
the rest. 

Soft Ginger Bread — No. 2. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of butter, on-e cup of 
sour milk, one egg, one teaspoonful of soda, two tet:- 
spoonfuls of cream of tartar. 

Graham Cake. 
One quart of graham flour, three tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of 
soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, and enough 
sweet milk to make a stiff batter. Drop with a spoon 
upon flat tins, or bake in patty pans. 

Bread Cake. 
Four cups of bread dough, two cups of butter, two 
teacupf uls of sugar, three eggs, one glass of wine, one 
teaspoonful of soda and a little nutmeg. Mix very 
thoroughly. 



CAKE. 193 

Fool Cake. 
One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup 
of sour milk, one egg, one teaspoonful of soda and a 
little salt. To be eaten warm for supper, with or 
without butter. 

Soda Cake — No. 1. 
Three cups of sugar, one cup of butter, six eggs, 
four cups of flour, one cup of milk, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 

Soda Cake — No. 2. 
Two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, one cup 
of butter, four cups of flour, four eggs, one teaspoon- 
ful of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda. 

French Cake. 
Two and a half cups of sugar, one-half cup of but- 
ter, one cup of sour milk, four cups of flour, three 
eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar. 

Burwick Cake. 
Beat six eggs, yolks and whites together, two min- 
utes; add three cups of sugar and beat five minutes; 
put two cups of flour with two teaspoonfuls of cream 
of tartar, and beat two minutes; add one cup of cold 
water, one teaspoonful of saleratus dissolved in it, 
and beat one minute; the grated rind and half the 
juice of one lemon, a little salt, and two more cups of 
flour, and beat one minute. Observe the time ex- 
actly in beating. Bake in rather deep pans. 

Cream Cake — No. 1. 
One cup of sugar, one cup of sour cream, two cups 
of sifted flour, two eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda and half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Flavor with essence of almond. 



194 CAKE. 

Cream Cake — No. 2. 

Mix a quart of flour, a pint or more of sweet cream 
to wet it well, a teaspoonful of saleratus dissolved in 
a little sour cream, and bake. 

Cream Cake — No. 3. 

One cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, 
three eggs, one-half cup of sweet milk, one teaspoon- 
ful of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, a 
little salt, one and one-half cups of flour. For the in- 
side take one cup of milk, one egg, one tablespoonful 
of corn starch. Sweeten and flavor to taste. 

Cream Cake — No. 4. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of 
sweet milk, three cups of. flour, four eggs, three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. Bake in jelly tins. 
Filling — One cup of sweet milk put on to boil, adding 
sugar to taste, beat one egg and two teaspoonfuls of 
corn starch together, and when the milk has come to 
a boil, stir in the eggs; flavor with vanilla and set 
awajr to cool; then put between layers of the cake. 

Washington and Domestic Cake. 

Two pounds of sugar, one and one-half pounds of 
butter, four and one-half pounds of flour, one and 
one-half pounds of lard, five eggs, one pint of milk, 
half an ounce of ammonia, and mace. 

Seed Cakes. 

One and one-quarter pounds of sugar, three-quarters 
of a pound of butter, three-quarters of a pound of lard, 
two and one-quarter pounds of flour, three eggs, one 
and one-half gills of milk, one-quarter ounce of sal- 
eratus, one tablespoonful of caraway seeds. 



CAKE. 195 

Jumbles — No. 1. 

Two pounds of sugar, two pounds of butter, three 
pounds of flour, six eggs, one pinch of saleratus, 
and oil of lemon. 

Jumbles — No. 2. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three eggs, 
one tablespoonful of sour milk, one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, a little soda and caraway seeds. 

Noodles. 

Two cups of white sugar, one cup of butter, three 
and a half cups of flour, half cup of milk, one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar, half teaspoonful of soda, 
four eggs. Drop with a spoon on a buttered tin pan. 
Sift nutmeg and sugar on the top. 

Fancy Cake. 

Eight eggs, seven ounces of sugar, seven ounces of 
flour, one-quarter pound of butter, and oil of lemon. 

Walnut Macaroons. 

Half a pint of brown sugar, half a pint of walnut 
meats chopped, three even tablespoonfuls of flour, 
one-third teaspoonful of salt, and two eggs; beat the 
eggs, add the sugar, salt, flour, and then walnuts. 
Drop the mixture on buttered paper some distance 
apart, and bake till brown. 

Almond Macaroons — No. 1. 

Blanch four ounces of almonds, and pound; beat 
the whites of four eggs to a froth, then mix it, and a 
pound of sugar, sifted, with the almonds, to a paste. 
Lay a sheet of wafer-paper on a tin, and put it on in 
different litj;le cakes, the shape of macaroons. 



196 CAKE 

Almond Macaroons — No. 2. 

One pound of almonds, one and three-quarters 
pounds of sugar, ten to twelve whites of eggs. Pre- 
pare the almonds by blanching them in boiling water 
the day before using them. Strip off the skin, and, 
when perfectly cold, pound them, a few at a time, and 
occasionally add a little rose water. Beat the eggs to 
a stiff froth, add the sugar and then the almonds. 
Drop with a teaspoon upon buttered sheets in tins; 
sift fine sugar over and bake in a slow oven. 

Pineapple Cake. 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of pulverized 
sugar, two cupfuls of flour, seven eggs, two table- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, two tablespoonfuls of 
water, a large pinch of salt. Work the butter to a 
very light cream, add the sugar, then the well-beaten 
yolks, the whites beaten to a very stiff froth, the 
water, and lastly the flour, baking powder and salt 
sifted well together. Bake in jelly-cake pans, in a 
hot oven. Spread pineapple marmalade between the 
cakes. 

Round Cake. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, three- 
quarters of a pound of butter, twelve eggs, one-half 
teaspoonful of soda. 

Ladies* Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of 
sweet milk, whites of eight eggs, one teaspoonful of 
soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 

Kisses — No, 1. 

The proportions are the whites of six eggs to one 
pound of powdered sugar. Have your eggs perfectly 



CAKE. 197 

fresh, and beat with a wire egg-spoon until stiff; add 
a few drops of vanilla flavoring, and sift the-sugar 
slowly into the egg, stirring it well in; when all the 
sugar is in, beat the mixture lightly and steadily for 
about an hour, or until it is so stiff as to remain in 
any form you stir. Place thick white paper on an 
oven slide, sprinkle sugar on and chop the mixture 
in little heaps with a spoon. Bake in rather a cool 
oven until a light fawn color. 

Kisses — No. 2. 

Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth; stir in 
one-half pound of sugar, lemon or rose water; beat 
^vell together until very light; lay the mixture in lit- 
tle heaps on white paper; put the paper on wood one- 
half inch thick; put them in a hot oven; as soon as 
they look yellowish, take them out. When cool, put 
two of them together. 

Kisses — No. 3. 

Seven eggs, one pound of the finest white sugar; 
flavor with lemon; add the sugar and lemon, when 
the eggs are beaten to a stiff froth. Butter a white 
paper and put in pans, and drop the kisses on with a 
teaspoon. Bake in a slow oven thirty minutes. 

Kisses — No. 4. 

White of one egg beaten well; add slowly fine sugar 
enough to make quite stiff, and two tablespoonfuls of 
corn starch. Flavor to taste. 

Cup Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of 
flour, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful of soda, two 
teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, whites of three eggs. 



198 CAKE. 

Minnehaha Cake. 

Two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one 
cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of 
milk, one and one-half cups of flour. Beat the sugar 
with the butter. Bake in jelly-cake tins. Filling — Boil 
one cup of granulated sugar in water enough to moisten 
it, until it becomes ropy. Then place it in a basin of 
cold water to cool. Beat the white of one ^^^ to a 
stiff froth, pour into the syrup and beat until cool; 
then add one cup of stoned raisins. 

White Mountain Cake. 

One cup of milk, one cup of butter, three cups of 
sugar, five cups of flour, six eggs, one teaspoonful of 
soda and two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. Dis- 
solve the soda in the milk; stir the cream of tartar in 
the flour. Bake in jelly-cake tins. Filling — One 
pound of sugar and the whites of four eggs. Spread 
each cake with the icing when nearly cold. 

Mountain Cake. 

Two coffee-cups of sugar, one teacup of butter, one 
teacup of sweet milk, four teacups of flour, four eggs, 
one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream of 
tartar. 

CocoANUT Cake — No. 1. 

Two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, three eggs 
(leaving out the whites of two of them), one cup of milk, 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, two teaspoonfi^ls of 
cream of tartar and one of soda; bake as jelly cake. 
Prepare frosting with the whites of two eggs, and 
sugar. Lay it upon each layer of cake and sprinkle 
grated cocoanut upon the frosting, reserving the 
largest amount for the top of the cake. 



CAKE. 199 

CocoANUT Cake — No: 2. 

One-half cup of butter, one and one-half cups of 
sugar, one-half cup of svveet milk, two cups of flour, 
three eggs, one-half teaspoonful of soda and one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar. 

CocoANUT Cake — No. 3. 

One and one-quarter cups of sugar, one and one- 
half cups of flour, one cup of cocDanut grated, five 
tablespoonfuls of butter, four tablespoonfuls of sweet 
milk, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-quarter 
teaspoonful of soda, whites of five eggs. Flavor with 
essence of lemon. 

Tea Cakes. 

Rub four ounces of butter into eight ounces of 
flour; mix eight ounces of currants, and six of fine 
sugar, two yolks and one white of eggs. Roll the 
paste the thickness .of a cracker, and cut with a wine- 
glass. You may beat the other white, and wash over 
them, and either dust sugar, or not, as you like. 

CocoANUT Jelly Cake. 

One cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of butter, two 
G&gs, one-half cup of milk, one teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, two cups of 
flour. For Preparing Cocoanut — One cup of milk 
scalded and poured over the cocoanut. When cold add 
the white of one ^^^, well beaten, and three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. 

Cocoanut Drops. 

One pound of cocoanut, three-quarters of a pound 
of sugar and three eggs. 



200 CAKE. 

Delicate Cake — No. 1. 

One cup of sugar, one and one-quarter cups of 
flour, four tablespoonfuls of soft butter, one-quarter 
of a cup of sweet milk, whites of four eggs, one-quar- 
ter of a teaspoonful of soda, one-half teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar in the flour, and essence of lemon. 
Bake'forty minutes. 

Delicate Cake — No. 2, 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one cup of butter, 
two-thirds cup of milk, whites of six eggs, three wine 
cups of flour and three teaspoonfuis of baking 
powder. 

Delicate Cake — No. 3. 

One pound of sugar, three-quarters of a pound of 
butter, one pound of flour, whites of ten eggs. 

Sponge Cake — No. 1. 

One cup of sugar, three eggs, one cup of flour, 
one teaspoonful of baking powder and one teaspoon- 
ful of vinegar. Bake iwenty-five minutes. 

Sponge Cake — No. 2. 

The weight of nine eggs in sugar and six eggs in 
flour; beat the yolks and sugar together, with juice 
and rind of one large fresh lemon; add the whites of 
eggs beaten stiffly, and the flour last thing; stir as little 
as possible after the flour is added. 

Sponge Cake — No. 3. 

Weight of eight eggs in sugar and four eggs in 
flour, and a little pinch of salt; beat the yolks of the 
eggs ten minutes, then beat the sugar and yolks fif- 
teen minutes, and let some one beat the whites to a 
stiff froth; at the end of the twenty-five minutes put 



CAKE. 201 

the stiff whites into the yolks and sugar, and stir the 
flour in slowly. Bake in a very evenly heated oven, 
not too hot; it must not bake too quickly nor stand 
to dry out. The grated rind and juice of one lemon 
may be used if desired. 

White Sponge Cake. 

Whites of ten eggs, one and one-half heaping cups 
of sugar, one heaping cup of flour, one heaping tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar, and a pinch of salt. 
Beat the eggs to a stiff froth, then add the sugar and 
beat lively for ten or fifteen minutes; add salt. Then 
stir the flour and cream of tartar together, and add 
carefully to the eggs and sugar. Put it in the oven 
at once. 

Roll Sponge Cake. 

One cup of flour, three eggs, one cup of sugar, one 
and one-half teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Sponge Drops. 
Beat to a froth three eggs and one teacup cf sugar; 
stir into this one heaping coffee-cup of flour, in which 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar and half a tea- 
spoonful of saleratus are thoroughly mixed. Flavor 
with lemon. Butter tin sheets with washed butter, 
and drop in teaspoonfuls about three inches apart. 
Bake instantly in very quick oven. Watch ok>sely, 
as they will burn easily. Serve with ice cream. 

Coffee Cake — No. 1. 
One and one-half cups of sugar, one and one-half 
cups of molasses, one cup of butter, one egg, one tea- 
spoonful of soda and one-half a teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar, four cups of flour, one nutmeg, two tea- 
spoonfuls of powdered cloves, one pound of raisins, 
one cup of gold strong coffee. Makes two loaves. 



202 CAKE. 

Coffee Cake — No. 2. 

One cup of brown sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
one teaspoonful of all kinds of spices, one cup of 
chopped raisins, one cup of currants, one-quarter 
pound of citron, one cup of strong coffee, with milk 
and sugar in it, three eggs, two cups of flour. Mix 
well, and bake in a deep dish one hour in a moderate 
oven. 

Gold Cake — No. 1. 

One-half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one and 
one-half cups of sweet milk, the yolks of six eggs, 
one-half teaspoonful of soda, one ounce of cream of 
tartar and two cups of flour. 

Gold Cake — No. 2. 
One cup of yellow sugar, the yolks of three eggs, 
one-half cup of water, one-half cup of butter, two 
even cups of flour; flavor with vanilla or rose water. 
Cream the butter, add the sugar, then the eggs and 
water; two teaspoonfuls of baking powder in the 
flour. Bake fifty minutes, in a moderate oven. 

Jumbles. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, two eggs, 
two even teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Roll them, 
sprinkle with sugar, cut a piece out of the centre and 
bake in a quick oven. 

Nut Cake. 
One cup of butter, two cups of white sugar, four 
cups of flour, one cup of sweet milk, the whites of 
eight eggs, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder and 
two cups of walnut meats. 

Hickory Nut Cake. 
One cup of meats (broken), one and one-half cups 
of sugar, one-half cup of butter, two cups of fiour, 



CAKE. 203 

three-fourths cup of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, the whites of four eggs well beaten; 
add the meats last. 

Christmas Cake. 
Two cups of butter, three cups of sugar, one-half 
cup of milk, one-half cup of water, a piece of soda as 
big as a bean, and caraway seeds. 

Feather Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, one small 
cup of butter, one cup of milk, three eggs, three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, and one teaspoonful of 
lemon juice. 

Butternut Cake. 
One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half 
cup of milk, one cup of chopped butternut meats, one 
cup of raisins, two eggs, two cups of flour. 



Lemon Cake — No. 1. 



JUEMON \^AKIL i>U. 1. 

One teacup of butter, three teacups of white sugar, 
five eggs, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful of saler- 
atus; grate the peel of one lemon and add the juice of 
the same, four cups of flour. 

Lemon Cake — No. 2. 
One cup of white sugar, three tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter; beat together until smooth; four eggs, 
whites and yolks beaten separately; add to the butter 
and sugar; three tablespoonfuls of sweet milk, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder sifted into one cup of 
flour; the rind of one lemon grated; beat until quite 
light. Bake in a quick oven. 



204 CAKE. 

Lemon Layer. 
One grated lemon, two eggs, piece of butter the 
size of an egg, one cup of sugar;, put them on the 
stove, melt together, and, when cool (not cold), 
spread between the layers of the cake. 

White Citron Cake. 
One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of 
sifted flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
mixed in the tiour, one teaspoonful of water, four 
■eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, one-half 
pound of citron cut in long strips; beat the butter to 
a cream; add the sugar and beat until melted; then 
add ttie eggs, milk and flour mixed well together; 
quickly bake in two shallow pans thirty minutes. 

White Fruit Cake — No. L 
One cup of butter, one and one-half cups of white 
sugar, the whites of six eggs, one wine-glass of white 
wine, one and one-quarter pounds of citron, cut fine, 
one-half pound of chopped almonds, one teaspoonful 
of prepared cocoanut, three cups of sifted flour, three 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder; beat the butter to a 
cream; then add the sugar and wine; beat the eggs to 
a stiff froth; after adding the wine add the fruit and 
eggs; sift the baking powder in the flour; mix well. 
Bake in two loaves for forty minutes in a quick oven. 

White Fruit Cake — No. 2. 
One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of 
sweet milk, two and one-half cups of flour, whites of 
seven eggs, two even teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
one pound each of raisins, figs, dates and blanched al- 
monds, and one-quarter pound of citron; cut all fine. 
Beat all well before adding fruit. Stir the fruit in 
last, with a sifting of flour over it. Bake slowly. 



CAKE. 205 

Fruit Cake — No. 1. 
Twelve eggs, one pound of flour, one pound of 
sugar, one pound ♦of butter, two pounds of raisins, 
two pounds of currants, one pound of citron, two 
tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, four nutmegs, one cup 
•of sweet milk, one cup of molasses, one teaspoonfui 
-of cream of tartar, one teaspoonfui of soda, one gill 
of brandy. Bake tw^o hours or more. 

Fruit Cake— No. 2. 
One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one pound 
of butter, two pounds of raisins, tw^o pounds of cur- 
rants, one-half pound of citron, six eggs, one tea- 
spoonfui of soda, one teaspoonfui of sour cream, one 
o-ill of brandy, one nutmeg, one teaspoonfui of 
cloves, one teaspoonfui of cinnamon, one cup of mo- 
lasses. This will make a loaf large enough for a six 
quart pan. Bake three hours in a slow oven. 

Water Melon Cake. 
Take one-half cup of white sugar, whites of four 
fresh eggs, half a cup of sour milk, half a cup of but- 
ter, two cups of flour; cream tne butter and sugar, 
then add the milk with not quite u half teaspoonfui 
of soda; stir in the flour, then a iittle egg, and so on, 
till all the ingredients are add'-d. The eggs must be 
beaten till very light. This completes half the re- 
cipe. Then take one and one-half cups of pink sugar, 
one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of sour milk, not 
quite half a teaspoonfui of soda, and two cups of 
flour; flavor the pink with anything you wish. Rose 
water is much used. Seed a quarter of a pound of 
raisins; rub them well in flour. After both kinds are 
ready, spread well the bottom and side of your pan 
with white dough; fill up with pink, leaving enough 
white to cover the top. 



206 CAKE. 

Wedding Cake — No. 1. 

Two pounds of butter, two pounds of brown sugar, 
two pounds of flour, twenty eggs, one quart of brandy, 
one pint of molasses, fifteen pounds of raisins, six 
pounds of currants, three pounds of citrbn, one 
pound of hard shelled almonds chopped, cloves, cin- 
namon, allspice and mace to suit taste. 

Wedding Cake — No. 2. 

Six cups of butter, three pints of sugar, six pounds of 
raisins, six pounds of currants, two pounds of citron, 
two pounds of shelled almonds, one pint of brandy, 
one tablespoonful of all kinds of spices, twenty eggs, 
three quarts of browned flour; beat the butter and 
sugar together; add the spices, fruits, nuts and 
brandy; then add your eggs, well beaten, and the 
browned flour sifted. This quantity will make three 
large loaves, and will keep for years. Bake in a 
moderate oven four hours. 

Banana Cake. 

One heaping tablespoonful of butter, two cups of 
sugar, three and three-fourths cups of flour, one cup 
of milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Flavor 
with vanilla. Filling — To the whites of three eggs 
take nine teaspoonfuls of fine sugar, flavor with va- 
nilla; cut the cake in four layers, and spread with 
icing; cover thick with sliced banana. Take one ba- 
nana for one cake and bake in one loaf. 

Lady Fingers. 

Two eggs, one half cup of pastry flour, scant half 
cup of powdered sugar. Have the bottom of two 
baking pans lined with buttered paper. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs, and sugar to a froth. Beat the 



GAKE. 



207 



whites to a stiff dry froth, and add to the yolks and 
sugar; add the flour and stir quickly; pour the mix- 
ture into the pastry bag and press it through on the 
paper in any size you wish; sprinkle powdered 
sugar over them, and bake sixteen minutes in a slow 
oven. 

Dominoes. 

Make a plain cake; bake in a sheet about an inch 
thick. Cut it into square pieces and frost the top and 
sides. When the frosting is hard take a fine brush 
and mark the lines and spots with melted chocolate. 

Gateaux Madeleines. 

One pound of sugar, sixteen eggs, half pound of 
butter, and three-quarters of a pound of best flour. 
Beat the eggs and the sugar together in a bowl; when 
done mix in the flour, then the butter. Put the paste 
in small mounds, and bake in a warm oven. 

Geneva Cakes — Fancy. 

Rub two cupfuls of sugar and one and a half cups 
of butter to a cream; add eight eggs, two at a time, 
beating five minutes between each addition; add one 
teaspoonful of baking powder sifted through one and 
a quarter pints of flour, one teaspoonful of extract of 
lemon. Mix into a smooth batter; drop into fancy 
shaped patty-pans, and just before putting in the 
oven, cover the tops with coarsely-chopped almonds 
or hickory nut meats. Bake in a moderate oven half 
an hour. If made in one loaf, bake an hour. 

Pound Cake. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one pound 
of butter, eight eggs, one teaspoonful of rose water 
and half a nutmeg. 



208 CAKE. 

Chocolate Cake — No. 1. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three eggs, 
four-fifths of a cup of milk, three cups of flour. 
Paste — Two ounces of grated chocolate, one-half cup 
of milk, one cup of sugar. 

Chocolate Cake — No. 2. 

One small cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, 
two cups of sugar, three and one-half cups of flour, 
four eggs, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Chocolate for Cake — Six tablespoonfuls of bakers' 
chocolate, grated fine; scald with milk enough to 
make a paste to spread easily, and flavor with vanilla. 

Chocolate Cake — No. 3. 

Five eggs, reserving the whites of two for frosting; 
one cup of butter, two cups of sugar, scant cup of 
sweet milk, three and one-quarter cups of flour, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. For the frosting 
take the whites of the two eggs, and beat to a stiff 
froth; add one and a half cups of powdered sugar, 
six tablespoonfuls of powdered chocolate, and two 
teaspoonfuls of vanilla. 

RoMEO AND Juliet Cake. 

Juliet — One cup of white sugar, whites of six eggs, 
well beaten; one tablespoonful of butter, one and one- 
half cups of flour, one heaping teaspoonful of baking 
powder, four tablespoonfuls of sweet milk. Romeo — 
One cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, yolks 
of six eggs, one cup of flour, four tablespoonfuls of 
sweet milk, one heaping teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der. Bake in separate tins. Beat the whites of two 
eggs to a stiff froth, add the grated rind and juice of 
lemon; thicken this with pulverized sugar, and 
spread between the cakes. 



CAKE. 209 

Pork Cake. 
Chop one pound of salt pork, pour on one pint of 
boiling water, two pounds of raisins, two pounds of 
currants, one-half pound of citron, two cups of mo- 
lasses, t\^"0 cups of sugar, flour enough to make a 
thick batter, one tablespoonful of baking powder, one 
teacupful of wine, all kinds of spice. Bake in a 
slow oven. 

Barnard Cake. 
One cup of butter, three cups of sugar, four and 
one-half cups of flour, four eggs, one cup of sour 
milk; the juice and a little of the rind of a lemon, 
and one teaspoonful of saleratus. 

Shrewsbury Cakes. 
One-quarter of a pound of butter, one-quarter of a 
pound of sugar, six ounces of flour, one teaspoonful 
of pounded cinnamon and mace, one egg. Beat the 
sugar and butter to a cream, then add the egg and 
spice; then stir in very gradually the flour; roll out 
the paste as thin as possible, and cut into cookies 
and bake. A teaspoonful of water will prevent the 
mixture sticking to the board. 

Jelly Cake. 
One cup of sugar, one-half cup of sweet milk, one- 
half cup of butter, two cups of flour, two eggs, one 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of 
soda. 

Roll Jelly Cake. 
Mix half a teaspoonful of baking powder in one 
cup of flour; add one cup of sugar and four eggs. 
Bake in a shallow pan in a moderate oven, turn out 
on a clean towel, having cakes "upside down;" 
spread with jelly and roll quickly while warm. 



210 CAKE. 

Layer Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter; mix 
thoroughly; one egg beaten, three-quarters of a cup 
of sweet milk, one and one-half cups of flour, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Flavor to taste and 
bake quickly. 

Silver Cake — No. 1. 

The whites of eight eggs, one cup of butter,- two 
cups of sugar, three cups of flour, one-half cup of 
sweet milk, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one- 
half teaspoonful of soda. 

Silver Cake — No. 2. 

One cup of pulverized sugar, one-half cup of but- 
ter, the whites of three eggs, one-half cup of milk, 
one and one-half cups of flour; use almond flavoring; 
beat the butter to a cream, then beat in the sugar; add 
the flavoring; put two teaspoonfuls of baking powder 
into the flour; mix quickly and well. Bake in a rather 
quick oven half an hour. 

Washington Cake. 

Stir together until quite white, one pound of sugar, 
three-quarters of a pound of butter, four eggs, beaten 
well; stir in gradually one and one-half pounds of 
flour; dissolve one teaspoonful of saleratus in a tea- 
cup of milk; add a glass of wine, one teaspoonful of 
rose water, one-half a nutmeg and one pound of 
stoned r-a-isins just before it is baked. 

Mrs. Burnham's Fig Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of flour, half a cup of 
butter, half a cup of sweet milk, half a cup of corn 
starch, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, mixed in 



CAKE. 211 

flour, whites of four eggs, well whipped and stirred 
in last. Bake the cake in round tins for layer. Fill- 
ing — Three-fourths of a pound of figs, chopped fine, 
one cup of sugar in five tablespoonfuls of hot water. 
Bring to a boil and turn over the figs. When cool 
spread between the layers of the cake. Make three 
layers of cake and two of figs. 

Angel's Food. 

The whites of ten eggs, one and one-half cupfuls of 
pulverized sugar, sifted, one cupful of best flour, 
sifted before measured, one teaspoonful of baking 
powder sifted into the flour, one teaspoonful of al- 
mond flavoring. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth; beat the sugar into the eggs; add flavoring and 
flour; beat until very light. Bake in a ring made for 
this cake forty minutes in a moderate oven. Line 
the ring with note paper, but do not crease it. 

Marble Cake — No. 1. 

Light Part — One and one-half cups of white sugar, 
half cup of butter, half cup of sweet milk, half table- 
spoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
adding the whites of four eggs, two and a half cups 
of sifted flour; beat very light. Dark Fart — Tf^o cups 
of brown sugar, half cup of butter, half cup of sour 
milk, half teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, two and a half cups of sifted flour; 
add the yolks of four eggs together with cinnamon, 
cloves and nutmeg, of each one teaspoonful. 

Marble Cake — No. 2. 

Dark Fart — One cup of brown sugar, one-half cup 
of butter, yolks of seven eggs, one nutmeg, one table- 
spoonful each of cinnamon, cloves, allspice and pep- 
per, one teaspoonful of soda, one-quarter of a cup of 



212 CAKE. 

sour milk. Light Part — Two cups of white sugar, one 
cup of butter, whites of seven eggs, half cup of sweet 
milk, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and flour 
enough to make it the consistency of cup cake. Put 
the dark mixture on the bottom of the pan, then a 
layer of white, and so on, having the top a layer of 
the dark. 

Pink Marble Cake. 

One cup of flour, one-half cup of corn starch, one- 
half cup of butter, whites of four eggs, one cup of 
red sugar sand, one-half cup of sweet milk, three- 
quarters of a teaspoonful of baking powder. Flavor 
to taste. 

Cream Puffs. 

One cup of water, half a cup of butter, boiled to- 
gether; stir in while boiling one cup of flour, dry; 
then take from the fire and allow it to cool; add three 
eggs, not beaten; mix well and drop on buttered tins, 
and bake twenty-five minutes. Avoid opening the 
oven. Cream — One cup of milk, one ^%^^ half a cup 
of sugar, three tablespoonfuls of flour; beat the eggs 
and sugar together, add flour, and stir them in the 
milk while boiling; flavor with vanilla. When cold, 
open and fill. 

Queen Cake. 

Two cupfuls of butter, two and a half cups of 
sugar, one and one-half pints of flour, eight eggs, one 
teaspoonful of baking powder, one wine-glass each of 
wine, brandy and cream, teaspoonful each of extract 
of nutmeg, rose and lemon. One cup of currants, 
mashed and picked, cup of raisins, stoned and cut in 
two, one cup of citron cut in small, thin slices. Bake 
carefully in well-prepared tins in a moderate, steady 
oven one and one-half hours. 



CAKE. 213 

Midnight Cake. 
One and one-half cups of butter, one pint of dark 
sugar, half pint of molasses, one-half pint of brandy, 
one-half pint of wine, one tablespoonful of all kinds 
of spices, ten eggs, two pounds of raisins, two pounds 
of currants, one pound of citron, three pints of 
browned flour, one teaspoonful of soda in the mo- 
lasses, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder sifted into 
the flour, Beat the butter to a cream, stir in the 
sugar, then the molasses, then the brandy, wine and 
spices, raisins stoned and chopped fine, currants, 
citron and eggs well beaten. Brown your flour, sift 
it and stir in the cake; add baking powder. Bake in 
two deep pans in a moderate oven for four hours. 

Puff Cake. 
Two cups of white sugar, one cup of sweet milk, 
half cup of butter, three cups of flour, two eggs, one 
teaspoonful of baking powder. 

Puff Overs. 
One pint of milk, one pint of flour, two eggs, a lit- 
tle salt, one teaspoonful of baking powder; pour 
patty tins half full. Bake in a hot ov^en. 

White Cake. 
One-quarter of a pound of white sugar, one-half 
pound of flour, rub into the sugar one ounce of but- 
ter, one egg, one lemon, and milk to soften. 

Crullers. 
Dissolve one teaspoonful of saleratus in four table- 
spoonfuls of milk; four tablespoonfuls of melted but- 
ter, one teaspoonful of salt. Beat four eggs with six 
tablespoonfuls of rolled sugar. Flavor with nutmeg. 
Add flour to make stiff enough to roll out easily 



214 CAKE. 

Spice Cake. 
One cup of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, one-half 
cup of butter, spice of all kinds. 

Fried Cakes — No. 1. 
One quart of milk, one-half pound of butter, six 
eggs, two pounds of sugar, one pound of raisins, one 
teaspoonfui of soda, flour to make a stiff batter. Beat 
well and drop in hot lard. 

Fried Cakes — No. 2. 
Two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, four table- 
spoonfuls of soda cream, one and one-half teaspoon- 
fuls of soda and three eggs. Mix soft and fry in hot 
lard. 

Doughnuts — No. 1. 
Twelve eggs, three-fourths of a pound of butter, 
two pounds of sugar, one pint of sour cream, one tea- 
spoonful of saleratus; season to your taste; flour suf- 
ficient to roll them out. Fry in lard. 

Doughnuts — No. 2. 
One quart of flour, two teaspoonfuls of cream of 
tartar, one teaspoonfui of soda, two eggs, one and 
a half cups of sugar, two cups of milk, half cup of 
butter, a little salt. 

Frosting — No. 1. 
One and one-quarter pounds of sifted loaf sugar, 
the whites of five eggs, half an ounce of pulverized 
gum arable, and lemon to the taste. 

Frosting — No. 2. 
Allow the whites of two eggs to each half pound of 
sugar, add a little lemon or orange juice, and whip 



CAKE. 215 

till you can turn the bowl upside down without drop- 
ping, or till it flakes. Some people add a little 
starch. 

Frosting — No. 3. 

Beat the whites of two eggs or more, according to 
the quantity wanted, and add pulverized sugar till 
quite thick; add a little powdered starch, and lay on 
the cake, immediately after it is baked, with a broad 
knife, returning to the oven for a moment, leaving 
the oven door open. 

Frosting — No. 4. 

Soak one teaspoonful of gelatine in one table- 
spoonful of cold water half an hour; dissolve in two 
tablespoonfuls of hot water; add one cup of pow- 
dered sugar and stir until smooth. 

Icing for Cake. 

The w^hite of an egg and one-quarter of a pound of 
powdered sugar. Beat the egg stiff, and add by de- 
grees the sugar. Flavor with lemon juice. This 
makes it whiter and smoother, and improves it much. 

Whip Churn for Creams. 

Whip churns cost but little, and are very useful. 
It is a tin cylinder with a dasher. By placing this in 
a bowl of cream you can bring the cream to a strong 
froth in five minutes. Very rich or poor cream will 
not whip well; when too rich, it turns to butter; 
when too poor the froth becomes thin. If you have 
thick rich cream, add a little milk. The cream should 
always be used cold. 



216 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 217 



218 ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 219 



PASTRY AND MEAT PIES. 



Puff Paste. 



One quart of flour, one pint of butter, one table- 
spoonful of salt, one and one-fourth cupfuls of ice 
water. Do not use any more water than specified. 
Before using the butter, mix well in cold water, to 
get all the salt out, and let it harden. Roll it out, 
and put half of the butter over it in small pieces; turn 
in the ends and roll it thin; do this twice, and touch 
it no more than can be avoided; use the last half of the 
butter for the last time you roll it. Then put on ice 
for at least an hour before using it. If it sticks, put 
it on a tin sheet before putting on the ice. The least 
flour you use in rolling, the nicer will be your paste. 
Bake in a quicker oven than for a short crust, and lay 
a paper over the top to keep it from scorching. 

A Less Rich Paste. 

Weigh a pound of flour, and a quarter of a pound 
of butter, rub them together, and mix into a paste 
with a little water, and an egg well beaten. Roll, 
and fold it three or four times. 

New England Pie Crust. 

One coffee-cup of lard, three coffee-cups of sifted 
flour and a little salt. In winter soften the lard (but 
not in summer), cut it well into the flour with a knife, 
stir quickly, mix with cold water into a moderately 



PASTRY AND MEAT PIES. 221 

Stiff dough, handling as little as possible; this quan- 
tity is suiiicient for four common-sized pies (covered). 
Take a new slice of paste each time for top-crust, 
using the trimmings, etc., for under-crust. 

French Pie Paste. 
Into two quarts of very cold water put half a pound 
of butter, and let it remain thirty minutes; when 
the time has expired, remove it from the water and 
rub it lightly into a pound of flour with two eggs; 
wet it with half a pint of the water in which the but- 
ter was placed, two teaspoonfuls of salt, and knead it; 
roll it out thin, and fold it for five consecutive times. 
Let it stand half an hour, and bake. 

Common Paste. 
Rub half a pound of butter and one spoonful of 
lard into a quart of flour; add a little salt, and cold 
water enough to make a dough; flour your moulding 
board and roll out the dough. Be sure and not 
mould it, but handle as little as possible. 

Pie Crust — No. 1. 
One cup of water, one cup of lard and one quart of 
flour. 

Pie Crust — No. 2. 
Three-quarters of a pound each of butter and lard 
mixed with one pound of flour; stir with a spoon, 
and add milk enough to make the pastry just stiff 
enough to roll; salt to taste, and roll out in as little 
additional flour as possible. 

Dedham Cream Pie, 
Bake your paste, not too rich, in a common pie 
plate first. Boil one pint of milk; when boiling stir 



222 PASTRY AND MEA T PIES. 

in half a cup of flour, one cup of sugar and the yolks 
of two eggs; beat well together. Cook long enough 
not to have a raw taste; add the juice and grated 
rind of one lemon and a little salt; beat the whites of 
the two eggs, with a cup of sugar, to a stiff froth; 
spread over the pie when filled, and brown in the oven. 

• Lemon Cream Pie. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of 'water, one raw po- 
tato grated; the juice and grated rind of one lemon; 
bake in pastry top and bottom. This will make one pie. 

Cream Pie — 'No. 1. 

Place a pint of milk where it will heat; then beat 
together one cup of white sugar, one-half cup of 
flour with two eggs, and stir into the milk when nearly 
boiling. Stir rapidly until it is cooked thoroughly, 
then add essence of lemon, and pour upon the 
crust, which should be baked before the cream is put 
in. This will make two pies. If you wish it extra, 
make a frosti-ng of the whites of two eggs and three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar; spread this evenly over the 
pies, and set in the oven to brown slightly. 

Cream Pie — No. 2. 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar, one and one-half 
cups of flour, one tablespoonful of sweet milk, one 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of 
soda; beat thoroughly together five or ten minutes, 
and bake in two round tin plates in a quick oven. 
When wanted for the table split them open, and 
spread the cream between. For the cream take one 
pint of milk, half a cup of sugar, two eggs, half a 
teaspoonful of vanilla, one tablespoonful of flour, 
one small pinch of salt; when the milk begins to boil 



PASTRY AND MEAT PIES. 223 

add the eggs with the other ingredients; boil a few 
minutes, stirring constantly. 

Cream Pie — No. 3. 

One full pint of sweet milk, place in a pan of water 
until at boiling point; one tablespoonful of flour or 
corn starch, stirred in half a cup of cold milk; yolks 
of two eggs stirred in with the flour and milk; 
sweeten to the taste, and add a little salt; then pour 
the milk on one cupful of grated cocoanut; add to 
the other ingredients while hot; then let it stand 
until it thickens; when the crust (which should be 
baked by itself) is cool, pour in the above; put in 
a meringue on the top of whipped cream; or, if you 
choose, use the whites of the eggs, beaten with the 
cream. Flavor with half a teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

Pare the pumpkin and take out the seeds without 
scraping the inside; stew and strain through a sieve. 
To every quart of milk add five eggs, and stir the 
pumpkin into the milk and eggs until to the proper 
consistency; sweeten with sugar or the best syrup; mo-' 
lasses makes it too strong. Add some salt, powdered 
cinnamon, powdered ginger and the grated peel of 
lemon. Bake in either deep or shallow dishes in a 
hot oven. 

Rhubarb Pie. 

Wipe the rhubarb, peel and cut in small pieces, and 
put it in a stew-pan, allowing half a pound of sugar 
to each pound of rhubarb, but no w^ater. Stew it 
slowly. When done, turn it into a dish and set it 
away to cool. Line the plates with paste, put in the 
sauce, and cover wnth an upper-crust. For tarts, put 
strips across instead of an upper-crust. 



224 pastry and meat pies. 

Marlboro Pie. 

One cup of stewed and sifted apples, one cup of 
sugar, one cup of milk, two tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter, and the yolks of three eggs; whip the whites 
of the eggs, and put on top as for orange pie. 

Egoless Squash Pie. 

Stew the squash till very dry; press through a col- 
ander; to each pint of squash allow one tablespoon- 
ful each of butter and cinnamon, one cup of sugar, 
one teaspoonful of ginger, a little salt, and a few 
crackers rolled very fine. Add milk according to 
judgment. 

Squash Pie. 

Pare the squash and remove the seeds; stew until 
soft and dry; then pulp it through a colander. Stir 
into the pulp enough sweet milk to make it thick as 
batter. Spice with ginger, cinnamon, nutmeg or 
other seasoning to taste; sweeten with sugar and add 
four beaten eggs for each quart of milk. Fill a pie 
plate lined with crust and bake one hour. 

Lemon Pie — No. 1. 

One cup of hot water, one tablespoonful of corn 
starch, one cup of white sugar, one tablespoonful of 
butter, the juice and grated rind of one lemon. Cook 
for a few minutes, add one egg, and bake with a top 
and bottom crust. 

Lemon Pie — No. 2. 

The juice and grated rind of one lemon, one cup of 
white sugar, the yolks of two eggs, three tablespoon- 



PASTRY AND MEAT PIES. 



225 



fuls of sifted flour and sufficient milk to fill a plate. 
Make it with under-crust but not the upper-crust. 
Bake till nearly done, and then add a frosting made 
of the beaten whites of two eggs, and two tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar, and set back in the oven and 
brown slightly. 

Lemon Pie — No. 3. 

One cup of water, three-quarters of a cup of sugar, 
yolks of two eggs, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, 
and one slice of bread broken without the crust. Grate 
one lemon, mixing the juice with the grated rind; 
bake with only an under-crust. When done, beat the 
whites of the eggs with four tabiespoonfuls of pul- 
verized sugar and a few drops of lemon, and spread 
over the top. Then return to the oven to brown 
slightly. 

Lemon Pie — No. 4. 

Grate the yellow rind of one lemon, then take off 
the inside skin and chop the pulp after taking out the 
seeds; add the grated rind, one tablespoonful of flour, 
one teacup of sugar, one cup of water, one egg and a 
tablespoonful of butter melted. Bake without an 
upper-crust. 

Lemon Fruit Pie. 

One cup of raisins, stoned and chopped fine, the 
juice and pulp of one lemon, one cup of sugar, one 
egg, and three tabiespoonfuls of water. Bake with 
two crusts. This is very nice and as rich as mince 
pie, but more quickly prepared. 

Lemon Custard Pie. 

One lemon, one cup of water, yolks of three eggs, 
one cup of sugar, two tabiespoonfuls of flour. Peel 



226 PASTRY AND MEAT PIES. 

the lemon and pulverize half the peel. When the pie 
is about done beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, 
and add two tablespoonfuls of sugar; pour over the 
pie and let it stand a few moments in the oven. 

Mince Meat — No. 1. 

Six pounds of beef, eight pounds of suet, one 
heart, sixteen pounds of apples, nine pounds of brown 
sugar, three quarts of molasses, two and a half ounces 
of salt, one ounce of pepper, one gallon of sweet 
cider, eight pounds of raisins, four pounds of cur- 
rants, three pounds of citron, one-quarter of a pound 
of cloves, one-quarter of a pound of cinnamon, one- 
quarter of a pound of nutmeg, one gallon of brandy, 
one gallon of wine. Mix all well together except the 
wine and brandy. Scald the mixture well, and then 
add the wine and brandy, and, when cold, cover with 
a cloth dipped in molasses. Keep in a cool place. 

Mince Meat — No. 2. 

One bowl of chopped meat, one bowl of chopped 
suet, two bowls of chopped apples, one bowl of sugar, 
one bowl of raisins, one bowl of currants, two bowls 
of cider, one-half bowl of citron, one teaspoonful of 
salt and one lemon chopped fine; nutmeg, cinnamon 
and cloves to taste. Wine or brandy may be used, if 
desired. 

Mock Mince Pie — No. 1. 

Two-thirds of a cup of rolled crackers, one cup of 
sugar, one cup of molasses, one-half cup of vinegar, 
one and one-half cups of boiling water, one cup of 
chopped raisins, butter the size of an egg, salt, one 
teaspoonful of cinnamon, and one teaspoonful each 
of cloves and nutmeg. After this has come to a boil 
and cooled stir in two es^sfs. 



PASTRY AND MEAT PIES. 227 

Mock Mince Pie — No. 2. 

Six soda crackers, one-half cup of butter, one cup 
of molasses, one cup of currants, three cups of 
warm water, one cup of vinegar, two cups of raisins. 
Cook all together and spice to taste. 

Mock Mince Pie — No. 3. 

Four Boston crackers rolled fine; pour on a cup of 
boiling water, and add one cup of sugar, one cup of 
molasses, one-half cup of vinegar, two eggs, two tea- 
spoonfuls of extract of lemon, one-half teaspoonful of 
cloves and one teaspoonful of cinnamon. Boil until 
it thickens. This will make two pies. 

Orange Pie — No. 1. 

The rind and juice of one orange, the yolks of three 
eggs, one-half cup of water, one tablespoonful of 
flour; when nearly done beat the whites, add three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, and spread over the pie; re- 
turn to the oven and brown. 

Orange Pie — No. 2. 

Cut into small pieces the inside of one orange, add 
the yolks of two eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of 
milk, and one tablespoonful of flour. Bake the pie, 
then spread over the top the whites of the eggs 
beaten with two tablespoonfuls of sugar; return to 
the oven to brown. 

CocoANUT Pie — No. 1. 

One large or two small cocoanuts, four eggs, three 
and one-half cups of sugar, one small cup of butter, 
one cup of milk or enough for two pies. Rub the 
sugar and butter to a cream. 



228 PASTRY AND MEAT PIES. 

CocoANUT Pie — No. 2. 

One good-sized cocoanut peeled and grated, one 
quart of milk sweetened like custard, a piece of but- 
ter the size of a walnut in each pie; four eggs to the 
quart. 

Pineapple Pie. 

Pare and grate large pineapples, and to every tea- 
cupful of grated pineapple add half a teacupful of 
fine white sugar; turn the pineapple and sugar into 
dishes lined with paste, put a strip of the paste 
around the dish, cover the pie with paste, wet and 
press together the edges of the paste; cut a slit in the 
centre of the cover, through which the vapor may es- 
cape. Bake thirty minutes. 

Banana Pie. 

Slice raw bananas, add butter, sugar, allspice and 
vinegar or boiled cider or diluted jelly; bake with 
two crusts. Cold boiled sweet potatoes may be used 
instead of bananas, and are very nice. 

Custard Pie without Eggs. 

Place a quantity of new milk, as much as desired, 
over a slow fire, and allow it to heat slowly until it 
boils, taking pains not to scorch it, as that imparts a 
disagreeable taste. For every quart of milk take four 
tablespoonfuls of flour, beat it well with cold milk to 
prevent it from being lumpy, and as soon as the milk 
boils, pour in the thickening, and stir it well until it 
boils again; then remove it instantly from the fire. 
Sweeten to suit the taste, and flavor with nutmeg or 
cinnamon, and it is ready for use, either cold or hot. 
Prepare the crust as usual for custard pies, fill them 
with the above preparation, and bake them an hour in 



PASTRY AND MEAT PIES. 229 

an oven moderately hot. When sufficiently cooked, 
they will resemble, in appearance, a genuine egg pie, 
and will scarcely be distinguished by the taste. Cus- 
tards may be made the same way, and if baked until 
the whey starts from them, they will be nearly equal 
to those prepared with eggs. Rice and other pud- 
dings may be made without eggs, by boiling and 
thickening the milk in this way, and if they are well 
baked, will prove exceller«t. 

Apple Custard Pie. 
Take nice sweet apples, jam and grate them, add 
good sweet milk until you have a batter as thick as 
for pumpkin pies; add one beaten egg and two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar to each pie. Bake slowly. 

Delicate Pie. 
The grated rind and juice of one lemon, one cup of 
powdered sugar, yolks of three eggs, five tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, two-thirds of a cup of water; take the 
whites of the eggs and three tablespoonfuls of sugar 
and beat to a froth, and turn it upon the pie when 
baked. Set it in the oven again and let it remain 
three minutes. 

Tomato Pie. 
Take ripe tomatoes, peel and slice. Sprinkle over 
a little salt, and let them stand a few minutes; pour 
off the juice, and add sugar, half a cup of cream, one 
egg, nutmeg, and cover with a rich paste, and bake in 
a moderate oven over half an hour. This makes an 
excellent and much approved pie. 

Orange Tartlets, or Puffs. 
Line small patty-pans, or roll out some paste, if for 
puffs. When baked, put in orange marmalade made 
with apple jelly. 



230 PASTRY AND MEAT PIES. 

Lemon Tarj-. 

Pare, rather thick, the rinds of four lemons, and 
boil tender in two waters, and beat fine. Add to it 
four ounces of blanched almonds, cut thin, four 
ounces of lump sugar, the juice of the lemons, and a 
little grated peel. Simmer to a syrup. When cold 
turn it into a shallow tin tart dish, lined with a rich thin 
puff paste, and lay bars of the same over. As soon as 
the paste is baked, turn it out. 

Orange Tart. 

Squeeze, pulp, and boil two nice oranges tender; 
use double their weight of sugar. Beat both together 
to a paste, and then add the juice and pulp of the 
fruit, and the size of a w^alnut of fresh butter, and beat 
all together. Choose a very shallow dish, line it with 
a light puff crust, and lay the paste of orange in it. 
You may ice it. 

Bread Pie. 

Soak one slice of very light bread in a pint of rich 
milk. When it is quile soft, beat it smooth; add one 
egg well beaten, and four tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Flavor w^ith nutmeg. Bake in a rich crust. 

Raspberry Tarts with Cream. 

Roll out some thin puff paste, and lay it in a patty- 
pan of any size you choose. Put in raspberries, 
strew over them fine sugar, cover them with a thin 
lid, and then bake. Cut it open, and have ready the 
following mixture warm: Half a pint of cream, the 
yolks of two or three eggs well beaten, and a little 
sugar, and when this is added to the tart, return it to 
the oven for five or six minutes. 



pastry and imeat pies. 231 

Francatelli Puff Paste. 

One pound of flour, one pound of butter, the yolk 
of an eggy a teaspoonful of salt, arid about half a pint 
of water. Place the flour on the pastry board, spread 
it out in the centre so as to form a well, in which 
place the salt, a small piece of butter, the yolk of an 
Ggg, and about two-thirds of the quantity of water re- 
quired to mix the paste; spread out the fingers of the 
right hand, and mix the ingredients together gradu- 
ally with the tips of the fingers, adding a little more 
water if necessary; when the whole is thoroughly in- 
corporated together, sprinkle a few drops of water over 
it, and work the paste to and fro on the board for two 
minutes, after which it should be rather soft to the 
touch, and present a perfectly smooth appearance. 
The paste, thus far prepared, must now be spread out 
on the board with the hands, and after the butter has 
been pressed in a cloth, to extract any milk it may 
contain, it should be placed in the centre of the 
paste, and partially spread, by pressing on it with the 
cloth; the four sides should then be folded over so as 
entirely to cover the butter; a little flour must next 
be shaken under and over it, and the paste must 
be shaped in a square form, measuring about ten 
inches each way, by pressing it out with the hand; it 
should then be placed in a clean baking-pan, laid on 
some broken ice, and a deep sautapan also filled with 
ice should be placed upon it; by these means the 
paste will be kept cool and firm. About ten minutes 
after the paste has been made, take it from the ice 
and place it on the board, shake a little flour over and 
under it, and then roll it out about two feet long and 
ten inches wide; observing that the paste must be 
kept square at both ends, as much of the success de- 
pends on due attention being paid to the turning and 



232 PASTRY AND MEAT PIES. 

folding. The paste should then be laid in three equal 
folds, and after these have been rolled over to cause 
them to adhere together, the paste must next be turned 
round in the opposite direction and rolled out again in 
the same manner as before; it should then be put back 
on the ice, and after allowing it to rest for about 
ten or fifteen minutes, roll it out again, or, as it is 
technically termed, give it two more turns; the paste 
must now be put back on the ice, and again rolled 
twice or three times, as the case may require, pre- 
paratory to its being cut out for whatever purpose it 
may be intended. In the summer season it is impos- 
sible to insure success in making puff paste, unless 
ice be used to further that end, it being a matter of 
the first necessity that it should be kept cool and firm: 
two requisites that tend materially to facilitate the 
working of the paste, and also contribute very con- 
siderably to give to it that extraordinary degree of 
elasticity, when exposed to the heat of the oven, so 
well known to experienced pastry cooks. A piece of 
puff paste a quarter of an inch thick, when baked, 
will rise to the height of two inches, thus increasing 
in volume eight times. To effect this properly, it is 
necessary to procure three oblong tin-pans, of the 
following dimensions: the first should measure 20 
inches by 16, depth 3 inches; the second, 18 inches by 
14, depth 2 inches; and the third, 16 inches by 12, 
depth 3 inches. Place some broken ice in the lar- 
gest, then set the second-sized tin on this, with the 
puff paste in it; lastly, put the smallest pan, also filled 
with ice, on the top of the paste: by this method puff 
paste may be easily made to perfection during the 
hottest days of summer. In winter, the use of ice 
may, of course, be dispensed with. In extreme cold 
weather, when the butter is very hard, it will be 
necessary to press it in cloth or on the board, to give 



PASTRY AND MEAT PIES. 233 

it more expansion, and thus facilitate its incorporation 
with the paste. Care must be taken, in mixing the 
paste, not to make it too stiff, especially in summer, 
as, in that case, it becomes not only troublesome to 
work, but it also affects its elasticity in baking. 

Pastry Custard, or Cream. 

Four ounces of flour, four ounces of sugar, six 
yolks of eggs, two ounces of butter, one pint of 
cream or milk, one ounce of ratafias, a spoonful of 
orange-flower water, and a very little salt; mix the 
flour, sugar and salt with two whole eggs, in a stew- 
pan with a wooden spoon; then add the cream and 
the butter, and stir the whole over the fire till it boils; 
it must then be well worked together, so as to make 
it smooth. Withdraw the spoon, and after putting 
the lid on the stew-pan, place the cream in the oven 
or over a slow fire, that it may continue to simmer 
very gently for about twenty minutes; the cream 
must then be put out into a basin, and the bruised 
ratafias, the yolks of the eggs, and the orange-flower 
water may be added; after which put four ounces of 
butter into a small stew-pan-over the fire, and as soon 
as it begins to fritter and has acquired a light-brown 
color (which gives to it the sweet flavor of nuts), add 
this also to the cream, and_ let the whole be well 
mixed. This cream may be used to garnish various 
kinds of pastry. 

Meat Pies. 
There are few articles of cookery more generally 
liked than meat pies, if properly made; and they may 
be made of a great variety of things. Some are best 
eaten when cold, and in that case there should be no 
suet put into the force-meat that is used with them. 



281: PASTRY AND MEAT PIES. 

If the pie is either made of meat that will take more 
cooking to make it extremely tender than the baking 
of the crust will allow, or if it is to be served in an 
earthen pie form, observe the following preparation: 
Take three pounds of the very nicest of beef that has 
fat and lean; wash it, and season it with salt, pepper, 
mace, and allspice, in fine powder, rubbing them well 
in. Set it by the side of a slow fire, in a stewpot that 
will just hold it. Put to it a piece of butter of about 
the weight of two ounces, and cover it quite close, 
and let it just simmer in its own steam until it begins 
to shrink. When it is cold, add more seasoning, 
force-meat, and eggs; and if it is in a dish, put some 
gravy to it before baking. But if it is only in crust, 
do not put the gravy with it until after it is cold and 
in jelly. Force-meat may be put both under and over 
the meat, if preferred to balls. 

Veal Patties. 
Mince some veal that is not quite done, with a little 
parsley, lemon peel, a scrape of nutmeg, and a bit of 
salt; add a little cream and gravy just to moisten the 
meat. If you have any ham, scrape a little, and add 
to it. Do not warm it until the patties are baked. 

Turkey Patties. 
Mince some of the white meat, and mix with it 
grated lemon, nutmeg, salt, a very little white pepper, 
cream, and a very little bit of butter warmed. Fill 
the patties. 

Patties Resembling Mince Pies. 
Chop the kidney and fat of cold veal, apple, orange 
and lemon peel candied, and fresh currants, a little 
wine, two or three cloves, a little brandy, and a bit of 
sugar. Bake as before. 



PASTRY AND MEAT PIES. 235 

A Good Mince for Patties. 

Two ounces of ham, four ounces of chicken or veal, 
one egg boiled hard, three cloves, a blade of mace, 
pepper and salt, in fine powder. Just before you 
serve, warm the above with four spoonfuls of rich 
gravy, the same of cream, and an ounce of butter. 
Fill as usual. 

Sweet Patties. 

Chop the meat of a boiled calf's foot, of which you 
use the liquor for jelly, two apples, one ounce of 
orange and lemon peel candied, and some fresh peel 
and juice; mix with them half a nutmeg grated, the 
yolk of an egg, a spoonful of brandy, and four ounces 
of currants, washed and dried. Bake in small patty- 
pans. 

Rabbit Pie. 

Cut two rabbits, and a pound of fat and lean pork 
that has lain a week or two in pickle, into small bits; 
lay them, when seasoned with pepper and salt, into a 
dish. Parboil the livers, and chop them in a bowl, 
with their weight of fat pork and bearded oysters, 
some pepper, salt, mace, and sweet herbs, chopped 
fine. Make this into small balls, and distribute in the 
dish with some artichoke bottoms cut in dice. Grate 
half a small nutmeg over, and add half a pint of port 
wine and the same of water. Cover with a tolerably 
thick crust. Bake it an hour in a quick, but not vio- 
lently heated oven. 

Giblet Pie. 

After very nicely cleaning goose or duck giblets, 
stew them with a small quantity of water, onion, 
black pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs, until 



236 PASTRY AND MEAT PIES. 

nearly done. Let them grow cold, and if not enough 
to fill the dish, lay a beef, veal, or two or three mut- 
ton steaks, at the bottom. Put the liquor of the stew 
to bake with the above, and when the pie is baked, 
pour into it a large teacupful of cream. Sliced pota- 
toes added to it are much liked. 

Crust for Venison Pasty. 

To two quarts of fine flour use two pounds and a 
half of butter, and four eggs. Mix into paste with 
warm water, and work it smooth and to a good con- 
sistency. Put a paste round the inside, but not to the 
bottom of the dish, and let the cover be pretty thick, 
to bear the long continuance in the oven. 

Beefsteak Pie. 

Season the beefsteak with pepper and salt and a lit- 
tle shallot, minced very fine. Roll each slice with a 
good piece of fat, and fill your dish. Put some crust 
on the edge, and only an inch below it, and a cup of 
water or broth in the dish. Cover with rather a thick 
crust, and set in a moderate oven. Bake two hours. 

Beefsteak and Oyster Pie. 

Prepare the steaks as above, without rolling; and 
put layers of them and of oysters. Stew the liquor 
and beards of the oysters with a bit of lemon peel, 
mace and a sprig of parsley. When the pie is baked, 
boil with the above three spoonfuls of cream, and an 
ounce of butter rubbed in flour. Strain it, and put 
into the dish. Bake two hours. 

Veal Pie. 

Take some of the middle or scrag of a small neck; 
season it, and either put to it, or not, a few slices of 



PASTRY AND MEAT PIES. 237 

lean bacon or ham. If it is wanted of a high relish, 
add mace, cayenne and nutmeg to the salt and pep- 
per, and also force-meat and eggs; and, if you choose, 
mushrooms and sweet-breads cut into small bits. 
Have a rich gravy ready to pour in after baking. It 
will be very good without any of the latter additions. 
Bake two hours. 

Cold Veal or Chicken Pie. 

Lay a crust into a shallow tart-dish and fill it with 
the following mixture: Shred cold veal or fowl, and 
half the quantity of ham, mostly lean; put to it a little 
cream; season it with white pepper, salt, a grate or 
two of nutmeg, and a bit of garlic or shallot, minced 
as fine as possible. Cover with crust, and turn it out 
of the dish when baked; or bake the crust with a 
piece of bread to keep it hollow, and warm the mince 
with a little cream, and pour in. 



238 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 239 



PUDDINGS. 



The outside of a boiled pudding often tastes dis- 
agreeable, which comes by the cloth not being nicely 
washed, and kept in a dry place. It should be dipped 
in boiling water, squeezed dry, and floured when to 
be used. If bread it should be tied loose, if batter, 
tight over. The water should boil quick when the 
pudding is put in, and it should be moved about for 
a minute, lest the ingredients should not mix. 
A pan of cold water should be ready, and the pud- 
ding dipped in as soon as it comes out of the pot, 
and then it will not adhere to the cloth. Very good 
puddings may be made without eggs, but they must 
have as little milk as will mix, and must boil three or 
four hours. Batter pudding should be strained 
through a coarse sieve when all is mixed. In others, 
the eggs separately. The pans and basins must 
be always buttered for a baked pudding. A few 
spoonfuls of fresh small beer, or one of yeast, will 
answer instead of eggs. Snow is an excellent sub- 
stitute for eggs, either in puddings or pancakes. Two 
large spoonfuls will supply the place of eggs. 

Green Corn Pudding. 

Take a dozen ears and grate them; add a teacupful 
of milk, a spoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, 
and some grated nutmeg; mix well together; put in 
a pan, place in a liot oxen, and bake for an hour. 



PUDDINGS. 241 

CocoANUT Pudding. 

Remove the shell and the brown skin from the 
meat; grate fine and mix with it three ounces of 
white sugar and half the grated peel of a lemon; add 
milk for two pies, put it into tins lined with paste, 
and bake it not too brown. 

CocoANUT Bread Pudding. 

Soak one-half cup of dessicated cocoanut in boil- 
ing hot milk for half an hour or more; then add it to 
usual bread-pudding preparation (the quantity of the 
bread being about three times as much as the cocoa- 
nut). Enrich and flavor to suit. This you will find 
to be a very pleasant and economical dessert. 

Baked Sponge Pudding. 

Three eggs, their weight each in butter, sugar and 
flour; beat the eggs very light, add the butter beaten 
to a cream, sugar and flour; this will make four 
large cups; fill them half full, and bake in a moder- 
ate oven ten minutes. Serve with sauce. 

Old Fashioned Indian Pudding. 

One quart of milk, with three handfuls of Indian 
meal stirred in while the milk is hot; let it cool, and 
add one Ggg; molasses to sweeten; butter half the 
size of an egg; cinnamon and salt to your taste. 
Bake three-quarters of an hour. 

Flour Suet Pudding. 

Three cups of flour, one cup of suet, one cup of 
molasses, one cup of milk, one cup of fruit, one-half 
teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, 
allspice and cloves. Steam three hours. Serve with 
sauce. 



242 PUDDINGS. 

Suet Pudding — No. 1. 

Quarter of a pound of suet, quarter of a pound of 
raisins, stoned, quarter of a pound of currants, two 
tablespoonfuls of molasses, one pint of milk, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, and flour to thicken. 
Steam three or four hours. 

Suet Pudding — No. 2. 

A cup of suet chopped fine, three cups of flour; 
mix ilour and suet well together; add one cup of mo- 
lasses, one cup of milk, a cup of raisins, a cup of cur- 
rants, half a teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar; it should be well spiced. Put into a 
pudding boiler, allowing plenty of room to rise; boil 
three hours. Serve with wine sauce. 

Suet Pudding — No. 3. 

One cup of flour, one cup of milk, one egg, one 
ounce of suet; mix w^ell, and add dried fruit in 
any quantity you wish; boil two hours. Eat with 
liquid sauce. Sauce — White of one egg; thicken with 
sugar and a little butter, beaten to a froth; add a cup 
of boiling water, stirring all the time; wine, or fla- 
voring to taste. 

Blue Berry Pudding. 

One teacupful of sugar, one teacupful of sweet 
milk, two teacupfuls of flour, one tablespoonful of 
butter, one tablespoonful of baking powder, one egg, 
two cups of blue berries. Bake in a moderately warm 
oven, and serve with the following sauce: One good 
cupful of sugar, half a cup of butter, one heaping tea- 
spoonful of corn starch beaten until white; add one 
cup of boiling water; let it boil up, and add one cup 
of wine. 



puddings. 243 

Orange Pudding. 

Pare six nice oranges and cut in small pieces into 
a deep dish with their juice, sprinkling sugar over 
them. Then take one pint of sweet milk, one table- 
spoonful of corn starch, the yolks of two eggs, three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and thicken the milk, boiling 
it well and pour over the oranges. When cool, beat 
to a stiff froth the whites of two eggs, and frost it 
and brown in the oven. 

Batter Pudding. 

One pint of milk, four eggs, the yolks and whites 
beaten separately; ten tablespoonfuls of sifted flour 
and a little salt; beat in the whites of the eggs the 
last thing before baking. Bake half an hour. 

Poverty Pudding. 

One cup of molasses, half cup of milk, half cup of 
shortening, three cups of flour, one teaspoonful of 
allspice, one cup of raisins, half teaspoonful of soda, 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Steam three 
hours. 

Apple Snow. 

Take a pint of stewed and sifted apples, whites of 
two eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and beat the whole 
well together. Sweeten to taste. 

Baked Indian Pudding. 

One quart of milk, one teacirp of Indian meal, one 
6gg» ^ pinch of salt; sweeten to taste with white 
sugar; take part of the milk and cook, with the meal; 
when done add balance of milk and then the egg, a 
piece of butter the size of a walnut. Bake three- 
quarters of an hour. 



244 PUDDINGS. 

A Swiss Pudding. 

Put layers of crumbs of bread and sliced apples, 
with sugar between, till the dish be as full as it will 
hold; let the crumbs be the uppermost layer. Then 
pour melted butter over it and bake. 

Arrow-root Pudding. 

Mix a dessert-spoonful of the powder in two of 
cold milk. Pour upon it a pint of boiling milk, in 
which have been dissolved, four ounces of butter and 
two of sugar, stirring all the time. Add a little nut- 
meg and five eggs. Bake half an hour in a dish lined 
with paste, then turn it out. Preserved fruits of any 
kind, laid at the bottom, eat well. If you wish it to 
look clear, substitute water for milk. 

Corn Meal Pudding. 

Boil one quart of milk, set it off the stove, and stir 
in one cup of Indian meal, one cup of molasses and 
sugar (half of each), one egg and a little salt. Bake 
one hour. 

Fig Pudding — No. 1. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of chopped suet, one 
cup of milk, three and a quarter cups of flour, 
two eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful 
of cinnamon, half a teaspoonful of nutmeg, one pint 
of figs. Mix together the molasses, suet, spice and the 
figs cut fine. Dissolve the soda with a tablespoonful 
of hot water and mix with the milk; add to other in- 
gredients. Beat the eggs light and stir into the mix- 
ture. Add the flour and beat thoroughly. Butter two 
small or one large mould. Turn the mixture into 
the mould or moulds and steam five hours. Serve 
with cream or wine sauce. Date pudding is made in 
the same way, using a pint of dates instead of the figs. 



PUDDINGS. 245 

Fig Pudding — No. 2. 

One-half pound of figs, one quarter of a pound of 
suet, one egg, one cup of flour. Chop the figs and 
suet together, add the flour and one cup of bread 
crumbs; sugar to taste, and milk to make a batter. 
Put in a cloth and boil three hours. Serve with sauce. 

Cottage Pudding. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of milk, half cup of 
melted butter, one egg, two small teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, one pint of 
sifted flour. Bake three quarters of an hour. Serve 
with sauce. 

Snow Pudding. 

Soak half a box of gelatine in half a pint of cold 
water for half an hour, then add half a pint of boil- 
ing water, juice of one lemon, and two cups of sugar; 
strain and let cool; when nearly cold add the whites of 
three eggs beaten to a stiff froth, then beat all well 
again. Put into a dish and let it cool on the ice. 
Sauce — Make a thin boiled custard of the yolks when 
the sauce is served. Put it around the sides of the 
dish after the pudding is dished. 

Strawberry Pudding. 

One quart of milk, four eggs (the yolks only); boil 
with corn starch enough to make it of the consistency 
of boiled custard. One quart of ripe strawberries, 
one coffee-cup of white sugar; put these in the bot- 
tom of a good-sized pudding dish. When the custard 
is cold pour it over the berries. Beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, and add two heaping tablespoon- 
fuls of pulverized sugar; pour this on top of the cus- 
tard and set in the oven a few minutes to brown. 



246 puddings. 

Delmonico Pudding. 

One quart of sweet milk, boiled; five eggs, the 
yolks beaten with five tablespoonfuls of sugar and 
three tablespoonfuls of corn starch; mix with enough 
cold milk to make it free from lumps, then stir it into 
the boiled milk until it thickens and pour into a dish; 
cover with the whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth and sweetened. Brown slightly, and flavor 
with vanilla. '" 

Plum Pudding. 

The same proportions of flour and suet, and half 
the quantity of fruit, with spice, lemon, a glass of wine, 
or not, and one egg, and milk, will make an excellent 
pudding if long boiled. 

English Plum Pudding. 

One pound of beef suet, cut fine; one pound of 
raisins, stoned; one-half pound of currants and six 
eggs, well beaten; one gill of cream, one teacupful of 
bread crumbs, eight tablespoonfuls of flour, two table- 
spoonfuls of brandy, one teacupful of sugar, one-half 
teacupful of molasses, grated citron, lemon peel, and 
such spices as you choose, to taste. Boil not less than 
five hours. 

English Christmas Plum Pudding. 

One pound of raisins, one pound of currants, one 
pound of suet, one pound of flour, six eggs, half a 
pound of brown sugar, one nutmeg, one pint of milk^ 
one teaspoonful of salt; mix these ingredients thor- 
oughly; place them in a strong pudding-cloth, which 
has been wet and covered with flour; tie up the cloth, 
not leaving much room for the pudding to swell. 
Serve with rich sauce after boilins^ five hours. 



puddings. 247 

Saratoga Plum Pudding. 

In a large bowl or tray put eight eggs beaten sepa- 
rately, one pint of sugar, one grated nutmeg, one 
quart of milk; stir in one quart of seeded raisins, 
one pint of currants, half a pint of citron cut up (the 
fruit well floured), a heaping quart of stale bread 
crumbs, and a quart of nicely-chopped beef suet; add 
enough flour to make the fruit stick well together; 
dip a pudding bag in boiling hot water, dredge on 
inside a thick coating of flour, put in the pudding and 
tie tightly, allowing room to swell, and boil from two 
to three hours in a good-sized pot, filling as the water 
wastes with.boiling water. Put an earthen plate in 
the bottom of the pot for the pudding to rest on. This 
will prevent any possible sticking to the kettle. 
Serve on a large flat dish with sauce made thus: 
Cream half a pound of sweet butter, stir in three- 
fourths of a pound of brown sugar, and the beaten 
yolk of an egg; simmer a few moments on a slow 
fire, stirring constantly; when near boiling add half a 
pint of bottled grape juice; grate nutmeg over the top 
and serve. This recipe furnishes enough for twenty 
people. It is good when warmed over by steaming. 

President's Pudding. 

Two thirds of a cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, yolks of four eggs, well beaten; crumb 
fine, half a loaf of bakers' bread, add the rind and 
juice of one large lemon and one teaspoonful of va- 
nilla; mix all together, then put half in the bottom of 
a pudding dish, spread on this a very little of pre- 
serves or fresh fruit, then put in the remainder of the 
mixture. Bake half an hour. Whip the whites of 
four eggs, half a cup of fine sugar and a teaspoonful 
of vanilla pour over and brown. 



248 puddings. 

Crumb Pudding. 

Half a pint of bread crumbs, three pints of milk, 
the yolks of four eggs, one and one-half cups of 
sugar; flavor with lemon. Frosting — Whites of four 
eggs, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, flavor with vanilla. 
Pour over the pudding when done, and place in an 
oven to brown. 

Troy Pudding. 

One cup of beef suet (chopped very fine), one cup of 
molasses, one cup of sweet milk, one cup of stoned 
raisins, three cups of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, 
one teaspoonful of salt. Steam three hours. Sauce — 
One cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter beaten 
to a cream, and one teacup of boiling water. Let it 
stand in boiling water ten minutes. 

Baked Dumplings. 

These differ from boiled ones in the formation of 
the pastry. In baked puddings or dumplings use 
butter, or part butter and part lard for the crust; in 
boiled puddings — apple or plum — suet is substituted, 
because they are lighter made this way. 

Birds' Nest Pudding. 

Pare six or eight large apples (spitzenbergs or 
greenings are best), and remove the core by cutting 
from the end down into the middle, so as to leave the 
apple whole except where the core has been removed; 
place them as near together as they can stand, with the 
open parfupward in a deep pie-dish; next make a 
thin batter, using one quart of sweet milk, three eggs, 
with sufficient flour, and pour it into the dish around 
the apples, also filling the cavities in them. Bake in 
a quick oven. Eat them with butter and susfar. 



puddings. 249 

Plain Fruit Pudding. 

Take one and a half cups of flour, one cup of bread 
crumbs, one cup of raisins, half a cup of currants, two 
nutmegs, one cup of suet chopped fine, two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, four eggs, a wine glass of brandy, 
a wine glass of syrup, and a little milk if necessary. 
Mix very thoroughly; tie it in a cloth as tight as pos- 
sible, and boil fast for five or six hours. Serve with 
wine sauce. 



Tapioca Pudding — No. 1. 

Put a teacupful of tapioca and a teaspoonful of 
salt into a pint and a half of water and let it stand a 
couple of hours, where it will be quite warm and not 
cook. Peel six tart apples, take out the cores and fill 
them with sugar, in which is grated a little nutmeg 
and lemon peel, and put them in a pudding dish. 
Over these pour the tapioca, first mixing with it a 
tablespoonful of melted butter and a little cold milk. 
Bake one hour. Eat with sauce. 



Tapioca Pudding — No. 2. 

Put three tablespoonfuls of tapioca to soak over 
night in lukewarm water; in the morning pour on 
this one quart of milk, and set it on the stove till it 
comes to a boil, add a pinch of salt and four or five 
tablespoonfuls of white sugar, the yolks of three 
eggs, which, when you pour in, cools it; let it come to 
a boil again, or until it thickens, stirring all the time, 
then pour it in your pudding dish; then beat the 
whites of the three eggs to a froth, add four table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and spread over the 
top; put it in the oven and bake a lis^ht brown. 



250 PUDDINGS. 

Tapioca Pudding — No. 3. 

Six teaspoonfuls of tapioca, soaked two hours in 
one pint of water; then put it into a buttered pud- 
ding dish, and a custard made of one quart of milk, 
three eggs, one cup of sugar, well beaten and 
poured over the tapioca; add one-half of a cup of 
raisins, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, and one of ex- 
tract of lemon. Bake one hour. 



Little Bread Puddings. 

One pint of bread crumbs, and one pint of milk; 
let the crumbs soak till soft. Beat two eggs and add 
two spoonfuls of sugar and a little melted butter; 
flavor with lemon; add a few currants well floured; 
pour tlie mixture into buttered round tins; grate a 
little nutmeg over each, and bake twenty minutes. 
Eat with warm sauce. 



Apples, a la Cremone. 

Choose such apples as will look clear whea 
dressed; pare, and cut into pieces a sufficient quan- 
tity to weigh a pound and a half; strew over them a 
pound of good sugar, and several long strips of 
lemon peel, and cover them close in a bowl. Next 
day put tlie apples, piece by piece, into a small pre- 
serving-pan, with the sugar, etc., and two large spoon- 
fuls of strong cider. Simmer gently, and as the 
pieces of apple become clear, take them out. When 
cold, build a wall with them on a small oval dish,, 
and place the lemon-peel on the top. Pour the syrup 
into the middle. Serve cream to eat with it. The 
peel of an orange, cut very thin, does as well as 
lemon. 



puddings. 251 

Batter Pudding. 

One quart of milk, fourteen tablespoonfuls of flour, 
six eggs; mix the flour and milk together, let it be 
well beaten, and then add the eggs after they are 
whipped to a froth Boil it two hours, and eat with a 
rich sauce. 

Apple Pudding. 

Pare and chop fine some of the best cooking apples; 
butter a pudding dish, cover the bottom and sides 
lialf an inch thick with grated bread and small lumps 
of butter, then add a layer of apple, with sugar and 
grated nutmeg sprinkled over, another layer of 
crumbs and butter, then a layer of apples, until the 
dish is filled, and pour over the whole a cup of milk, 
and bake it. Eaten with sauce. 

Baked Apple Pudding. 

Six apples well stewed, quarter of a pound of but- 
ter, half of it stirred into the apple while hot, and 
sugar to your taste. When cold add six eggs, well 
beaten, to the apple. Pound and sift six crackers, 
butter your dish, and put in a layer of cracker, and a 
layer of your prepared apple, and thus until you have 
filled your dish; let the cracker be the upper layer, 
and put the remainder of your butter in small bits 
upon it. Bake in two shallow dishes for half an 
hour. 

Baked Vermicelli Pudding. 

Simmer four, ounces of vermicelli in a pint of new 
milk ten minutes; then put to it half a pint of cream, 
a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, four ounces of 
butter, warmed, the same of white sugar, and the 
yolks of four eggs well beaten. Bake in a dish with 
out a lining. 



252 puddings. 

Delicate Pudding. 

One quart of milk; while boiling, stir in one pint 
of flour after it is sifted, six eggs, six tablespoonfuls 
of white sugar, one spoonful of butter, grated peel 
and juice of two lemons. All the ingredients must 
be well beaten together before they are stirred into 
the milk; stir one way, without stopping, till it has 
boiled for a minute or two; take it off and turn into 
your pudding dish. It is to be eaten cold, with sugar 
and cream if you like. 

Poverty Pudding. 

Soak your bread in milk the night before using; 
when ready, butter your pudding dish, and place in a 
layer of the bread. Have a dozen apples pared and 
sliced, and place a layer of apples on the bread, an- 
other layer of bread, then of apples, and so on, till 
your dish is filled; let the last layer be bread, and 
bake it an hour. To be eaten with sauce. 

Macaroni Pudding. 

Simmer an ounce or two of the pipe sort in a pint 
of milk, and a bit of lemon and cinnamon, till tender; 
put it into a dish, with milk, two or three eggs,, but 
only one white, sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful of peach- 
water, and half a glass of raisin wine. Bake with a 
paste round the edges. A layer of orange marmalade 
or raspberry jam, in a macaroni pudding, for change, 
is a great improvement, in which case omit the al- 
mond water, or ratafia, which you would otherwise 
flavor it w^th. 

Brown Bread Pudding. 

Half a pound of stale brown bread grated, same of 
currants, same of shred suet; sugar and nutmeg; 



PUDDlxNGS. 253 

mix with four eggs, a spoonful of brandy, and two 
spoonfuls of cream. Boil in a cloth or basin that ex- 
actly holds it, three or four hours. Serve w4th sweet 
sauce. 

Quaking Pudding. 

Scald a quart of cream. When almost cold, put to 
it four eggs well beaten, a spoonful and a half of 
flour, some nutmeg and sugar. Tie it close in a but- 
tered cloth, boil it an hour, and turn it out with care, 
lest it should crack. Melted butter, a little wine, and 
sugar. 

Rice Pudding with Fruit. 

Swell the rice with a very little milk over the fire; 
then mix fruit of any kind with it (currants, goose- 
berries scalded, pared and quartered apples, raisins, 
or black currants), with one egg into the rice to bind 
it; boil it well, and serve with sugar. 

Frosted Rice Pudding. 

One quart of milk, one-half cup of rice. Boil the 
rice in the milk until thoroughly cooked, the yolks of 
four eggs, beaten and put in when the rice is done. 
Beat up with eggs, sugar and a little salt, sufficient to 
season nicely. Pour into a buttered dish, beat the 
whites of the eggs with four tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar, flavor with lemon spread on the top, and 
put in the oven until a light brown. 

Porcupine Pudding. 

Boil half a pint of rice in new milk until perfectly 
tender, and not too dry; then add six eggs beaten, a 
spoonful of ratafia, as much sugar as shall be sufficient, 
and some grated fresh lemon; mix well, and boil in a 



254 PUDDINGS. 

mould one hour and a half. Turn it on a hot dish, 
and stick it thick with almonds cut in sixths. Serve 
with a rich custard around it. It is equally good cold. 

Rice Meringue. 

Simmer for several hours on the back of the stove 
one cupful of rice in one quart of milk; do not let it 
boil. When quite soft, add the yolks of four eggs and 
half a cup of sugar. Boil up once and remove from 
the fire When cold, add the juice and grated rind of 
one lemon. Pour into a dish and cover with a 
meringue made of the whites of the eggs beaten with 
four tablespoonfuls of sugar. Set in the oven for 
a few minutes to harden, and serve cold. 

Rice Pudding without Eggs. 

Two quarts of milk, half a teacup of rice, a little 
less than a teacup of sugar, the same quantity of 
raisins, and a teaspoonful of cinnamon. Wash the 
rice and put it with the rest of the ingredients into 
the milk; bake rather slowly from two to three hours; 
stir two or three times the first hour of baking. If 
properly done this pudding is delicious. 

Royal Pudding. 

Three-quarters of a cup of sago, washed and put 
into one quart of milk; put it into a saucepan, and 
stand in boiling water on the range until the sago has 
well swelled. While hot put in two tablespoonfuls 
of butter with one cup of white sugar. When cool 
add the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, put in a pud- 
ding dish, and bake from half to three-quarters of an 
hour, then remove it from the oven and place it to 
cool. Beat the whites of the eggs with two table- 
spoonfuls of powdered loaf sugar, till they are a mass 



PUDDINGS. 255 

of froth; spread your pudding with either raspberry 
or strawberry jam, and then put on the frosting; put 
in the oven for two minutes to slightly brown. If 
made in summer, be sure and keep the whites of the 
eggs on ice till you are ready to use them, and beat 
them in the coldest place you can find, as it will make 
a much richer frosting. 

Boiled Custard Pudding 

Eight eggs to one quart of milk, five spoonfuls of 
flour; boil three-quarters of an hour. To be served 
as soon as done, and with sauce. 

Maizena Pudding. 

Four tablespoonfuls of maizena, stirred into two 
eggs, and milk enough to make it smooth. Set a 
quart of milk to boil, and just before it boils stir in 
the above, constantly stirring the same way till it 
thickens; remove from the fire and flavor. To be 
cold, and eaten with milk, cream and sugar. It is 
very nice to admit the eggs, and take six tablespoon- 
fuls of maizena to a quart of milk (stirring the same 
way), and eaten warm with wine sauce. 

Dorchester Corn Pudding. 

Twelve ears of sweet corn grated to one quart of 
sweet milk; add a quarter of a pound of good butter, 
quarter of a pound of sugar and four eggs; bake it 
from three to four hours. 

Cabinet Pudding. 

Dissolve one-half box of gelatine in enough water 
to cover. When dissolved, make a custard of three 
pints of milk and cream, mixed. Beat six eggs very 
smooth, one teaspoonful of corn starch and two cups 



256 PUDDINGS. 

of sugar into the cream, before adding to the boiling 
milk. Take a mould holding two quarts and arrange 
in layers, half a pound of lady fingers, half a pound 
of macaroons, half a pound of sliced citron, moistened 
with wine or milk. Stir the dissolved gelatine and 
custard together, fill the mould with it, pack in ice 
and salt and let it freeze. To be eaten with wine 
sauce. 

Marblehead Apple Pudding. 

Eight tablespoonfuls of apple, after it is stewed and 
strained through a sieve, five eggs, half a pound of 
sugar, half a pound of butter (cream the butter and 
sugar together and add the eggs), the peel of an 
orange or lemon grated, with the juice and one nut- 
meg. To be baked in a dish lined with paste. 

Pea Pudding for Corned Beef or Pork. 

Pick and wash a pint of split peas, and put them in 
a bag, not tied too closely, and let them cook until 
quite tender; take them out and sift through a sieve; 
mix with an egg, a bit of pepper, and a little butter; 
stir well together; flour the bag, put in the mixture, 
and tie very close; then put in the pudding witli 
your meat one hour before the meat is served. 

Norfolk Dumplings. 

With a pint of milk, two well-beaten eggs, and a 
little salt, mix as much flour as will make a tliick 
batter. Drop a spoonful at a time into a stew-pan of 
boiling water. Three minutes will do them. Take 
them up in a sieve to drain, and serve quickly with 
cold butter. Tlie water must not cease boiling while 
tliey are cooking. 



puddings. 257 

Light or German Puddings or Puffs. 

Melt three ounces of butter in a pint of cream and 
let it stand till nearly cold; then mix two ounces of 
fine flour, and two ounces of sugar, four yolks and 
two whites of eggs, and a little rose or orange-flower 
water. Bake in little cups, buttered, half an hour. 
They should be served the moment they are done, and 
only whei. going to be eaten, or they will not be light. 
Turn out of the cups, and serve with white wine and 
sugar. 

Yorkshire Pudding. 

Mix five spoonfuls of flour with a quart of milk, 
and three eggs well beaten. Butter the pan. When 
brown by baking under the meat, turn the other side 
upwards, and brown that. It should be made in a 
square pan, and cut into pieces to come to the table. 
Set It over a chafing dish at first, and stir it some 
minutes. 

Green-bean Pudding. 

Boil and blanch old beans, chop them fine, with 
very little pepper and salt, some cream, and the yolk 
of an egg. A little spinach juice will give a finer 
color, but it is as good without. Boil it in a basin 
that will just hold it, an hour, and pour parsley and 
butter over. 

Almond Pudding. 

Beat half a pound of sweet and a few bitter al- 
monds with a spoonful of water; then mix four 
ounces of butter, four eggs, two spoonfuls of cream, 
warm with the butter, one of brandy, a little nutmeg, 
and sugar to taste. Butter some cups, half fill, and 
bake the puddings. Serve with pudding-sauce. 



258 puddings. 

Orange Pudding. 
Grate the rind of a nice orange, put to it six ounces 
of fresh butter, six or eight ounces of lump sugar 
pounded, mix them all in a bowl, and add as you do 
it the whole of eight eggs well beaten and strained; 
scrape a raw apple, and mix with the rest; put a 
paste at the bottom and sides of the dish, and over the 
orange mixture put cross bars of paste. Half an 
hour will bake it. 

Steak or Kidney Pudding. 
If kidney, split and soak it, and season that or the 
meat. Make a paste of suet, flour and milk; roll and 
line a basin with it, put the kidney or steaks in, cover 
with paste, and pinch round the edge. Cover with a 
cloth and boil three hours. 

Beefsteak Pudding. 
Prepare some fine steaks, roll them with fat be- 
tween, and if you like add a little shredded onion. 
Lay a paste of suet in a basin, and put in the rolls of 
steaks; cover the basin with a paste, and pinch the 
edges to keep the ^ravy in. Cover with a cloth tied 
close, and let the pudding boil slowly three hours. 

Baked Beefsteak Pudding. 
Make a batter of milk, two eggs and flour, or, 
which is much better, potatoes boiled or mashed 
through a colander; lay a little of it at the bottom of 
the dish; then put in the steaks, prepared as above, 
and very well seasoned; pour the remainder of the 
batter over them and bake it. 

Mutton Pudding. 
Season with salt, pepper, and a bit of onion; lay 
one layer of the steaks at the bottom of the dish, and 



PUDDINGS. 259 

pour a batter of potatoes, boiled and pressed through 
a colander and mixed with milk, and an egg over 
them; then putting in the rest of the steaks and bat- 
ter, bake it. 

A Pretty Supper Dish. 

Having first washed a teacupful of rice, boil it in 
milk till tender; strain off the milk, lay the rice in 
little heaps on a dish, strew over them some finely- 
powdered sugar and cinnamon, and put warm wine 
and a little butter into the dish. 

What to do with Stale Bread. 

Stale bread may be made into very palatable dishes 
in several ways. 1. Cut into pieces of the same size 
or shape; soak them in milk prepared as for custard 
with eggs, sugar and spice; fry in butter or lard a 
delicate brown. Serve with any kind of sweet sauce. 
2. Cut in slices, toast nicely; dip into hot salted 
water; butter liberally; lay the slices one on another 
in a deep dish; cover closely and set for a few min- 
utes in a hot oven; serve. This makes a very appe- 
tizing dish. 3. Slice, and dip in a mixture made by 
stirring an egg or two well beaten into milk; fry in 
butter and serve when hot; this makes what is some- 
times called French toast. 4. Put slices of stale 
bread into a flat pan and dry slowly in the oven till 
veiy crisp. Crumble them into milk and serve as 
bread and milk. Or roll them fine and use as cracker 
crumbs. Stale bread is a very pleasant addition to 
almost all kinds of hash. Everybody knows how to 
make bread puddings with eggs and milk. With the 
suggestions above the young housekeeper will never 
need to waste a crumb. 



260 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 261 



262 ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 



->=9^- 



WiNE Sauce — No. 1. 

A teacupful of sugar, with butter the size of an 
egg worked into it; add half a teacupful of boiling 
water, and set it over a kettle of boiling water ten min- 
utes; just before going to the table, add a wine-glass 
of wine and the whites of two eggs whipped to a 
froth; nutmeg or other flavoring may be used instead 
of the wine, if preferred. 

Wine Sauce — No. 2. 

Two teacups of sugar, one teacup of butter, stir to 
a cream; beat two eggs very light and stir all to- 
gether; add one teacup of wine; mix and set on top 
of a tea-kettle of boiling water. It must not be put 
on the stove nor boil. 

Wine Sauce — No. 3. 

One pint bowl of white sugar, not quite a quarter of 
a pound of butter, one glass of wine, one grated nut- 
meg, and a tablespoonful of warm water; beat to- 
gether steadily for half an hour. Set a saucepan on 
the fire, with about a gill of water in it; when it boils 
put in the sugar, etc., but do not stir it nor let it boil, 
but simmer gently till all is dissolved; pour into the 
tureen, and do not cover till cold. 



264 SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 

Hard Sauce — No. 1. 

Take half as much butter as sugar, and mix, and 
heat it fifteen minutes in a bowl set in hot water, stir- 
ring until it foams. Flavor with wine or grated 
lemon peel 

Hard Sauce — No. 2. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter, ten tablespoonfuls of 
sugar; work this until white, then add wine or grated 
lemon peel, and spice to your taste. 

Pudding Sauce. 

One cup of sugar, a little less than half the quantity 
of butter, add a wine-glass of sherry wine, flavor with 
nutmeg, and stir in boiling milk until it is of the 
consistency of cream. Send to the table, and stir well 
when served. 

Sweet Sauce. 

Stir to a cream, one cup of butter with two of 
sugar; pour into the butter and sugar a teacup of 
boiling water, beat an egg light, and mix it gradually 
with the other ingredients before they become hot; 
mix half a teaspoonful of flour in a little cold w^ater, 
free from lumps, stir it into the sauce and beat the 
Avhole constantly until hot enough to thicken; add 
nutmeg. This is proper for all boiled puddings, 
especially berry, and also baked berry puddings. 

Cranberry Sauce. 

A quart of cranberries, a large pint of sugar, and 
half a pint of water. Boil slowly, and beat the cran- 
berries to a jelly. When thoroughly bruised put in 
your moulds. 



sauces for puddings. 265 

Creamy Sauce, 

One-half cup of butter, one cup of powdered sugar, 
four tablespoonfuls of cream or milk, four table- 
spoonfuls of wine, or in place of wine, one teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla and three additional teaspoonfuls of 
milk or cream; beat the butter to a cream, add sugar 
gradually, then wine gradually and milk gradually. 
Place the bowl in which the sauce has been made in a 
basin of boiling water; stir a few minutes until it 
looks smooth, and it is ready to serve. 

Maple Sugar Sauce. 

Melt over a slow fire, in a small teacup of water, 
half a pint of maple sugar; let it simmer, removing 
all scum; add four tablespoonfuls of butter mixed 
with a level teaspoonful of flour and one of grated 
nutmeg; boil for a few moments, and serve with 
boiled pudding. 

Sweet Sauces for Puddings. 

For fritters, rub butter and sugar together; serve 
on little plates. For boiled puddings, English plum 
puddings and baked puddings, put in a tin sauce pan 
or tosser, one pint of milk, and let it come to a boil. 
Take butter the size of an tgg, rub into it all the flour 
it will take, pour on it some cold milk to thin it a little, 
and put it to the hot milk; sweeten, nutmeg and cinna- 
mon to taste. After you take it from the fire, add 
brandy or wine. Another way is to take sweet cream 
sweetened and flavored. 



266 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



DISHES FOR DESSERT, 



->=®=:- 



Charlotte Russe — No. 1. 

Pour one cup of cold water over half a box of gela- 
tine. When it is dissolved add a cup of boiling milk 
and let it cool. Add to a quart of sweet cream sifted 
sugar and vanilla to taste. When the gelatine is be- 
ginning to harden whip the cream to a froth and add 
the gelatine gradually, continuing the whipping for 
some time. Line a glass dish or mould with slices of 
home-made sponge cake, and pbur the mixture into it, 
and let it stand in a cold place until it is thoroughly 
congealed. This recipe, it will be observed, does not 
call for any eggs. 

Charlotte Russe — No. 2. 

One pint of cream, half a box of gelatine; whip the 
whites of three eggs with eight teaspoonfuls of white 
sugar; two teaspoonfuls of vanilla in gelatine. 

Charlotte Russe — No. 3. 

One quart of cream, four eggs, half a pound of 
sugar, one ounce of isinglass or gelatine, half a pint 
of milk. Dissolve one-half box of gelatine in the 
milk on the back of the stove, beat eggs and sugar to- 
gether till rising very light; whip the cream and skim 
off. till all is whipped up, then strain the dissolved 



268 DISHES FOR DESSERT. 

gelatine into the eggs, stir this till it begins to 
thicken, then pour into the whipped cream. Do not 
beat it but stir it in thoroughly; flavor with vanilla to 
taste, then pour in the moulds lined with cake. 

Charlotte Russe — No. 4. 

The sponge cake may be made with four eggs, one 
cupful of sugar, one and one-half cupfuls of flour, 
and two even teaspoonf uls of yeast powder. Spread it 
as evenly as possible on a large sheet of foolscap pa- 
per, and bake. When baked cut a piece to fit the 
bottom of the charlotte pan, then even-sized parallel- 
ograms to fit around the sides. Fill with cream made 
as follows: Whip one pint of cream flavored with 
vanilla to a stiff froth, and add to it the well-beaten 
whites of two eggs, and one-half pound of pulver- 
ized sugar; mix it all lightly and carefully together. 
Fill the charlotte pan, or pans, and put them into the 
ice-chest to set. Cream is much more easily frothed 
when placed on ice and thoroughly chilled before 
whipping; when whipping it, place the froth on a 
sieve, and all that drops through can be returned to 
the bowl and rewhipped. Many take the trouble to 
add gelatine, which is unnecessary. 

Russian Charlotte. 

Trim about six ounces of lady fingers perfectly 
straight, so as to make them fit closely to one another, 
and line the bottom and sides of a plain mould with 
these; then fill the interior of the charlotte with a 
Bavarian, coffee, chocolate, pistachio, Italian or any 
similar cream. The same kinds of fruit as are used 
for making a Macedoine jelly may be introduced in 
the cream. 



dishes for dessert. 269 

Apple Charlotte. 

To prepare this dessert to perfection it is necessary 
that a crumb-loaf of close-made bread should be 
made two days previous for the purpose; this, it must 
be owned, is not positively necessary; therefore, in 
its stead, a stale quartern loaf may answer the pur- 
pose well enough. First of all some apple marmalade 
must be prepared as follows: Let two or three 
dozen apples be peeled, cored, sliced up and placed in 
a stew-pan with one pound of sugar, two ounces of 
butter, and some lemon peel and cinnamon tied to- 
gether, moisten with half a pint of w^ater, place the 
lid on a stew-pan, and then set the apples to boil 
sharp on a quick stove until they are melted. You 
then remove the lid, and with a wooden spoon con- 
tinue stirring the marmalade over a brisk fire until it 
is reduced to a rather stiff consistency. 

A plain round charlotte-mould must now be lined 
at the bottom with small thin circular pieces of bread, 
dipped in clarified butter, and placed so as to over- 
lap each other until the bottom of the mould is well 
covered. Next, cut some oblong-squares of thin 
bread, also dipped in clarified butter, and set these up 
the sides of the mould overlapping each other — in 
order that they may be thus enabled to hold firmly to 
the sides of the mould. Fill the cavity with the ap- 
ple marmalade, cover in the top with a thin circular 
piece of bread dipped in butter, place the charlotte on 
a baking sheet, and bake it in a rather brisk oven, of 
a light color; and when done, turn it out on its dish, 
glaze it on the top with sifted sugar and a red hot 
salamander: pour some diluted apricot jam around 
the base, and serve. 



270 dishes for dessert. 

Charlotte, a la Parisienne. 

First, bake a thin sheet of sponge cake, and when 
this has become thoroughly cold, proceed to cut it 
out into twenty-four oblong squares, measuring 
four inches long, by an inch wide; also about twelve 
half-moon or crescent shapes, of an equal size, in 
order that these may closely fit it with each other, so 
as to effectually cover the bottom of a charlotte 
mould; a circular piece must also be prepared, with 
which to finish the centre. All these pieces must be 
glazed over with icing prepared of two colors in 
equal numbers; as, for instance, one-half being pink, 
amber, green or chocolate; while the other half is to be 
white. With the foregoing, line the mould, and then 
fill the centre with any kind of Bavarian cream. 

Floating Island. 

Take one quart of milk and heat it nearly boiling 
hot; then put the whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth on the hot milk for a few moments to cook; 
then with a skimmer remove the froth from the milk; 
then beat the yolks of the eggs with one cup of sugar 
and a pinch of salt, and stir in the milk until boiling, 
then cool, and flavor with vanilla; lastly, lay the 
white frosting (at first prepared) on top of the cus- 
tard. 

Tapioca Blanc-mange. 

. One-half pound of tapioca soaked for an hour in a 
pint of new milk, then boil until tender; sweeten and 
flavor to taste; put the mixture in a mould. Serve 
with cream, custard or preserves. 

Blanc-mange — No. 1. 

Boil two ounces of isinglass in a pint and a half of 
water half an hour, strain it to a pint and a half of 



DISHES FOR DESSERT. 271 

cream, sweeten it and add some peach-water, or a few 
bitter almonds. Let it boil up once, and put it into 
any shaped moulds you desire. If not to be very 
Stiff, a little isinglass will do. Observe to let it set- 
tle before you turn it into the forms, or the blacks 
will remain at the bottom of them, and be on the top 
when taken out of the moulds. 

Blanc-mange — No. 2. 

Parboil twelve ounces of Jordan and two ounces of 
bitter almonds in a quart of water for about two min- 
utes; drain them on a sieve, remove the skins, and 
wash them in cold water; after they have been soaked 
in cold water for half an hour, pound them in a mor- 
tar with four ounces of sugar, until the whole pre- 
sents the appearance of a soft paste. This must then be 
placed in a large basin with twelve ounces of loaf 
sugar, and mixed with rather more than a pint of pure 
water; cover the basin with a sheet of paper, twisted 
around the edges, and allow the preparation to stand 
in a cool place for about an hour in order to extract 
the flavor of the almonds more effectually. The milk 
should then be strained off the almonds through a 
napkin, with pressure, by wringing it at both ends. 
Add two ounces of clarified isinglass, or its equal of 
gelatine, to the milk of almonds; pour the blanc- 
mange into a mould imbedded in ice, and, when set 
quite firm, turn it out on its dish with caution, after 
having first dipped the mould in warm water. 

Maraschino Bavarian Cream. 

Whip a pint of double cream until it presents 
somewhat the appearance of snow, taking care not to 
overdo it, as it would then produce butter When 



272 DISHES FOR DESSERT. 

the cream is whipped add one and one-half ounces of 
clarified isinglass, or its equal of gelatine, a gill and 
a half of maraschino, the juice of a lemon, and four 
ounces of granulated sugar; mix these well together 
and pour the cream into a mould, previously very 
slightly oiled inside with oil of sweet almonds; set 
the cream in ice, and when it has become firm, turn it 
out on its dish. The mould having been oiled, pre- 
vents the necessity of dipping this delicate cream in 
warm water, previously to turning it out. 

This kind of cream may also be flavored with all 
kinds of liquors; also with the essence of orange, 
lemon, vanilla, roses, bitter almonds, chocolate, cof- 
fee, etc. 

Strawberry Bavarian Cream. 

Take the hulls from two quarts of fine strawberries, 
and bruise them in a basin with six ounces of 
pounded sugar; rub this through a sieve, and mix it 
with a pint of whipped cream, and one ounce and a 
half of clarified isinglass, or its equal of gelatine. 
Pour the cream into a mould, previously oiled with 
oil of sweet almonds, set it on ice, and, when it has 
become quite firm, turn it out on its dish. 

Raspberries, blackberries and currants may be pre- 
pared for making Bavarian creams by following the 
above directions. 

Apricot Bavarian Cream. 

Split a dozen ripe apricots and remove the stones; 
place the pieces in a small stew-pan, with twelve 
ounces of sugar, and a gill of pure wacer, then stir 
them over the fire and let them boil until the fruit is 
entirely dissolved; this puree must then be rubbed 
through a clean fine sieve into a large basin, and 



DISHES FOR DESSERT. 273 

mixed with a pint of whipped cream, and one ounce 
and a half of clarified isinglass, or its equal of gela- 
tine. Pour the cream into an oiled mould,, and set it 
in ice, in the usual way. 

This cream may be made of peaches, pears and all 
kinds of plums, instead of apricots. 

Coffee Cream — No. 1. 

Roast eight ounces of Mocha coffee-berries, stirring 
it constantly, until it assumes a light brown color, 
then blow out the small burnt particles, and throw 
the roasted coffee into a stew-pan containing a pint of 
boiling milk or cream; put the lid on the stew-pan 
and set it aside to allow the infusion to draw out the 
flavor of the coffee. Next, strain this through a nap- 
kin into a stew-pan containing the yolks of eight eggs 
and twelve ounces of sugar; add a very small pinch 
of salt, and stir the cream over the fire until it begins 
to thicken, then quicken the motions of the spoon, and 
when the yolks of the egg are sufficiently set, strain 
the cream through a tammy or sieve into a large 
basin. Mix half a pint of whipped cream and one 
ounce and a half of clarified isinglass (or gelatine) in* 
with this, pour the whole into a mould which has been 
imbedded in ice. When the cream has become firm, 
dip the mould in warm water and turn out. 

Coffee Cream — No. 2. 

Boil a calf's foot in water till it wastes to a pint of 
jelly, clear of sediment and fat. Make a teacup of 
very strong coffee; clear it with a bit of isinglass to 
be perfectly bright; pour it to the jelly, and add a 
pint of very good cream, and as much fine sugar as is 
pleasant; boil up once and pour into the dish. It 
should jelly, but not be stiff. Observe that your cof- 
fee be fresh. 



274 PISHES FOR DESSERT. 

Chocolate Cream — No. 1. 

Grate eight ounces of vanilla chocolate, or use 
bakers' chocolate and a little essence of vanilla, put 
this into a stew-pan with eight ounces of sugar, the 
beaten yolks of eight eggs and a pint of cream; stir 
the whole over a fire until the it begins to thicken, 
and the yolks of the eggs are sufficiently set without 
allowing them to curdle; strain through a tammy or 
fine sieve, into a basin; add half a pint of whipped 
cream and one ounce and a half of clarified isinglass. 
Mix the whole well together, and pour into a mould 
previously imbedded in rough ice to receive it. 

Chocolate Cream — No. 2. 

Scrape into one quart of thick cream one ounce of 
the best chocolate, and a quarter of a pound of sugar; 
boil and mill it. When quite smooth, take it off, and 
let it become cold; then add the whites of nine eggs. 
Whisk, and take up the froth on sieves, as others are 
done, and serve the froth in glasses, to rise above 
some of the cream. 

Burnt Cream — No. 1. 

Boil a pint of cream with a stick of cinnamon, and 
some lemon peel; take it off the fire, and pour it very 
slowly into the yolks of four eggs, stirring till half 
cold; sweeten and take out the spice, etc.; pour it 
into the dish; when cold, strew white pounded sugar 
over, and brown it with a salamander. 

Burnt Cream — No. 2. 

Put two ounces of pounded sugar into a stew-pan, 
with the grated rind of two lemons; stir these with a 
spoon over a slow fire, until the sugar begins to as- 



DISHES FOR DESSERT 275 

sume a light-brown color; then pour in a pint of 
cream, add to this eight ounces of sugar, the yolks of 
eight eggs and a little salt, and stir the whole over 
the fire until the eggs are set; then strain the cream 
through a tammy into a large basin, and mix in with 
it half a pint of whipped cream, and one ounce and a 
half of clarified isinglass. Pour the cream into a 
mould imbedded in broken ice. 



Orange-flower Cream. 

Put two ounces of candied orange-flowers into a 
stew-pan, with two ounces of pounded sugar; stir 
these over a slow fire until the sugar is nearly melted, 
and pour in a pint of cream, adding eight ounces of 
sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, a tablespoonful of 
orange-flower water, and a very little salt; stir this 
preparation over the fire to set the yolks of the eggs, 
and then strain the cream through a tammy into a 
basin; add half a pint of whipped cream and one 
ounce and a half of clarified isinglass to it; mix well 
together, and then pour the cream into a mould im- 
bedded in broken ice. 

Note — The flavoring of this kind of cream may be 
varied according to taste by substituting lemon, 
orange, vanilla, cinnamon and lemon, or any other 
kind of essence or liquor, for the foregoing. 

Pistachio Cream. 

Parboil eight ounces of pistachio kernels for two 
minutes in boiling water; then remove the skin, wash 
and wipe the kernels, and pound them in a mortar 
with six ounces of sugar and a dessert-spoonful of 
orange-flower water; rub the whole through a fine 
hair-sieve, and place it in a large basin. Add to the 



276 DISHES FOR DESSERT. 

pounded pistachios a spoonful of the green extract of 
spinach, a pint of whipped cream, and one ounce and 
a half of clarified isinglass; mix well together; pour 
the cream into an oiled mould, and then set it in ice 
in the usual way. 

Italian Cream — No. 1. 

Put the yolks of eight eggs into a stew-pan with 
four" ounces of ratafias, eight ounces of sugar, the 
grated rind of an orange, a small stick of cinnamon, a 
.wine-glassful of curacoa, and a pint of cream; stir this 
over the fire in order to set the yolks of eggs in it, 
and then strain it through a tammy into a basin. 
Add thereto half a pint of whipped cream, and one 
ounce and a half of clarified isinglass, and after hav- 
ing well mixed the whole together, pour it into a 
mould ready imbedded in broken ice to receive it. 

Italian Cream — No. 2. 

Whip together a quart of very thick scalded cream, 
a quart of raw cream, the grated rind of four lemons, 
and the strained juice, with ten ounces of white-pow- 
dered sugar, one hour; then add half a pint of sw^eet 
wine, and continue to whip it until it becomes quite 
solid. Lay a piece of muslin in a sieve, and lade the 
cream upon it with a spoon. In twenty hours turfi 
it carefully out, but mind that it does not break, and 
garnish it with a wreath of flowers. 

Celestina Strawberry Cream. 

Imbed a jelly-mould or plain charlotte-mould in 
some broken ice contained in an earthen dish; line 
the bottom and sides of the mould with picked straw- 



DISHES FOR DESSERT. 277 

berries, which must first be dipped in some perfectly- 
cold liquid jelly; then fill the interior of this kind of 
charlotte with some strawberry cream, prepared for 
the purpose. 

Cream, a la Romaine. 

Blanch four ounces of Jordan almonds with one 
ounce of bitter almonds, and when freed from their 
hulls, washed and wiped dry, let them be chopped 
rather fine. Next, place them in a sugar boiler and 
stir them over the fire with a spoon until they have 
acquired a very light-brown color; the almonds 
should nov/ be thrown into a pint of milk that has 
been kept boiling for the purpose; to this add six 
ounces of sugar and the yolks of eight eggs, and stir 
the whole quickly over the fire until the yolks are set, 
when the cream must be immediately removed from 
the fire, and stirred for a few minutes longer, pre- 
viously to its being rubbed through a tammy like a 
puree. The produce will present a light fawn-colored 
thick cream; this must be mixed first, with little bet- 
ter than an ounce of clarified isinglass, and then, three 
gills of whipped cream are to be lightly yet well in- 
corporated. Pour the cream into a mould, and set it 
in ice as usual. 

Cream, a la Chateaubriand. 

Set a jelly-mould in ice, and then proceed to orna- 
ment the bottom and sides with blanched almonds that 
have been split and well soaked to whiten them, each 
being first dipped in some rather strong and colorless 
jelly, previously to its being stuck to the sides of the 
mould. When the mould is thus ornamented, pour 
some of the same jelly into it, and by gently and 



278 DISHES FOR DESSERT. 

gradually moving the mould round (side-ways) in the 
ice, cause the jelly to form a thin coating over the al- 
monds. When the latter part of the process is satis- 
factorily effected, proceed to effect another coating 
about the third of an inch thick, with some pistachio 
cream; and when this is firmly set, fill up the cavity 
with some cream a la Romaine. 

Note — An infinite variety of creams may be thus 
produced by using two different preparations of dif- 
ferent creams, such as currant and orange flower, ap- 
ricot and vanilla, chocolate and white coffee, etc. 

An Excellent Cream. 

Whip up three-quarters of a pint of very rich cream 
to a strong froth, with some finely-scraped lemon 
peel, a squeeze of the juice, half a glass of sweet 
wine, and sugar to make it pleasant, but not too 
sweet. Lay it on a sieve or in a form, and next day 
put it on a dish, and ornament it with very light puff- 
paste biscuits, made in tin shapes the length of a fin- 
ger, and about two thick, over which sugar may be 
strewed, or a little glaze with isinglass. Or you may 
use macaroons, to line the edges of the dish. 



Rock Cream. 

This will be found to be a very ornamental as well 
as a delicious dish for a supper table. Boil a teacup- 
ful of the best rice till quite soft in new milk, sweet- 
ened with powdered loaf sugar, and pile it upon a 
dish; lay on it, in different places, square lumps of 
either currant jelly or preserved fruit of any kind; 
beat up the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth, with a 
little powdered sugar, and flavor with either orange- 



DISHES FOR DESSERT. 279 

flower water or vanilla. Add to this, when beaten 
very stiff, about a tablespoonful of rich cream, and 
drop it over the rice, giving it the form of a rock of 
snow. 

Snow Cream. 

Put to a quart of cream the whites of three eggs 
well beaten, four spoonfuls of sweet wine, sugar to 
your taste, and a bit of lemon peel; whip it to a froth, 
remove the peel, and serve in a dish. 

Velvet Cream — No. 1. 

Dissolve one paper of gelatine in a pint of cold 
milk fifteen minutes. Have ready one pint of boiling 
milk, pour it on the gelatine, strain it through a fine 
sieve, add one quart of cream well whipped, stir in 
ten ounces of sugar and flavor to taste with wine or 
vanilla. Pour into moulds. 

Velvet Cream — No, 2. 

Half an ounce of isinglass dissolved in one and a 
half cups of white wine; then add the juice and 
grated peel of a lemon, three-quarters of a pound oi 
loaf sugar; simmer all together until mixed well; 
strain and add one and a half pints of rich cream, and 
stir until cool; pour it into moulds, and let it stand 
till stiff enough to turn out. 

Spanish Cream. 

One-half box of gelatine, soaked one hour in one- 
half pint of milk; beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff 
froth; put in a deep dish; put one quart of milk on to 
boil; beat the yolks of the eggs with sugar to taste. 



280 DISHES FOR DESSERT. 

and when the milk is just ready to boil stir in the 
yolks and gelatine; let it thicken as for soft custard. 
While boiling 'hot pour over the whites, stirring some; 
flavor with vanilla; put in mould and let it cool at 
least four hours. 

Celestine Cream. 

Imbed a plain mould in some rough ice. Line the 
bottom and sides of the mould with fresh-picked 
strawberries, taking care to put each in dissolved 
gelatine, in which there has been mixed some maras- 
chino or other wine; when the interior of the mould is 
completely lined on the bottom and sides, fill the in- 
terior with cream. 

Rice Cream. 

To a pint of new milk add a quarter of a pound of 
ground rice, a lump of butter the size of a walnut, a 
little lemon peel and a tablespoonful of powdered 
sugar. Boil them together for five minutes, then add 
half an ounce of isinglass which has been dissolved, 
and let the mixture cool. When cool add half a pini 
of good cream whisked to a froth, mix all together, 
and set it for a time in a very cool place or on ice. 
When used, turn it out of the basin into a dish and 
pour fruit juice around it; or some stewed apple or 
pear may be served with it. 

Gooseberry Cream. 

Take a quart of gooseberries and boil them very 
quick in enough water to cover them; stir in half an 
ounce of good butter; when they become soft, press 



DISHES FOR DESSERT 



281 



them through a sieve, sweeten the pulp while it is 
hot, and then beat it up with the yolks of four eggs. 
Serve in a dish or glass cup. 

Everlasting or Solid Syllabubs. 

Mix a quart of thick, raw, cream, one pound of re- 
fined sugar, a pint and a half of fine raisin wine, in a 
deep pan; put to it the grated peel and the juice of 
three lemons. Beat or whisk it one way half an hour; 
then put it on a sieve, with a bit of thin muslin laid 
smooth in the shallow end till next day. Put it in 
glasses. It will keep good, in a cool place, ten days. 



Croquante of Oranges. 

Let the peel and all the white pith be carefully re- 
moved with the fingers from about a dozen sound, 

and not over-ripe oranges; 
then divide them by pull- 
ing them into small sec- 
tions wnth the fingers, tak- 
ing care not to break the 
thin skin which envelopes 
the juicy pulp, then place 
them on an earthen dish. 
Next, put about one pound of granulated sugar into 
a sugar boiler with sufficient pure water to just cover 
it, and boil it down until it snaps or becomes brittle, 
which may be easily ascertained by taking up a little 
of the sugar, when it begins to boil up in large pur- 
ling bubbles, on the point of a knife, and instantly 
dip it into some cold water; if the sugar becomes set, 
it is sufficiently boiled, and will then easily snap in 
breaking. (When boiling sugar for this purpose, it is 




282 DISHES FOR DESSERT. 

customary to add a pinch of cream of tartar and pow- 
dered alum mixed, or a few drops of acetic acid.) 
The sugar should now be taken from the fire. The 
pieces of orange, stuck on the points of small wooden 
skewers, must be slightly dipped in the sugar, and ar- 
ranged at the bottom and around the sides of a plain 
circular mould (previously very lightly rubbed with 
salad-oil), according to the foregoing design. When 
the whole is complete and the sugar has become firm 
by cooling, just before sending to the table, fill the 
inside of the croquante wuth whipped cream, sea- 
soned with sugar, a glass of maraschino and some 
w^hole strawberries, and then turn it out on a napkin, 
and serve 

Croquante of Fresh Walnuts. 

The fittest season for making this, is when the wal- 
nuts are just ripe enough to be easily taken out of the 
shell; about sixty will be required for the purpose. 
They must be carefully shelled and divided into 
halves, then freed from the thin whitish skin which 
covers the kernels, and kept in a clean napkin until 
used. In all other respects, this kind of croquante 
must be finished as in the preceding case. 



Croquante of Ratafias, a la Chantillv. 

Procure one pound of small ratafias; boil down one 
pound of the finest loaf sugar as directed in the fore- 
going case. Then slightly rub the inside of a basket- 
shaped mould with oil, and proceed to line this with 
ratafias lightly dipped in the sugar — taking care to ar- 
range them in neat and close order; when the cro- 
quante is completed and the sugar has become firmly 
set, turn it out of the mould. With the remainder of 



DISHES FOR DESSERT. 283 

the sugar form the handles and a scroll-pattern 
border, which is to be placed round the join of the 
basket, and also round the edge; this is effected by 
dipping the pointed end of the bowl of a spoon into 
the hot sugar, and then drawing it out and dropping 
the sugar from the bowl, in the form of the intended 
design, on a baking sheet slightly oiled; before it be- 
comes set, fix it round the part it is to ornament. 
Just before sending the croquante to table, fill the in- 
side with whipped cream, arrange some strawberries, 
preserved cherries, or cut angelica, neatly on the sur- 
face and serve. 

Orange Dessert. 

Peel a dozen oranges and slice them thin, take a 
preserve dish and first put a layer of oranges then 
dessicated cocoanut and repeat alternately until the 
dish is filled. Set in a cool place until ready to serve. 

Orange Jelly. 

Procure five oranges and one lemon; take the rind 
off two of the oranges and half of the lemon, and re- 
move the pith, put them in a basin, and squeeze the 
juice of the fruit into it; then putaquarter of apound of 
sugar into a stew-pan, with half a pint of water, and 
set it to boil until it becomes a syrup, when take it 
off, and add the juice and rind of the fruits; cover the 
stew-pan, and place it again on the fire; as soon as 
boiling commences skim well, and add a gill of water 
by degrees, which will assist its clarification; let it 
boil another minute, when add an ounce and a half of 
isinglass, dissolved, pass it through a jelly-bag or fine 
sieve; then fill mould and place it on ice; turn out. 
This jelly does not require to look very clear. 



284 dishes for dessert. 

Pomegranate Jelly. 

Extract the bright pips from six ripe pomegranates, 
bruise these in a basin, with one pound of pounded 
sugar, add thereto a gill of pure water, and then filter 
the preparation through a beaver jelly bag, in order 
to preserve the delicate flavor of the fruit. The fil- 
tered juice of the pomegranates must then be mixed 
with two ounces of clarified isinglass or gelatine, six 
drops of cochineal, and, if necessary to make out the 
quantity of jelly required to fill the mould,- some thin 
clarified syrup may be added. Set a jelly mould in a 
basin of rough ice, and fill the mould with alternate 
layers of jelly and the bright pips of this fruit. 

Pine-apple Jelly. 

Peel a pine-apple vv^eighing about one pound, cut it 
into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, and put 
these into a basin. Clarify one pound of loaf sugar 
with a pint of water, the juice of two lemons, and 
half the white of an egg whipped with a little water; 
when thoroughly skimmed, strain the syrup on to the 
pine-apple, allow it to boil for three minutes, then 
cover it with a sheet of paper twisted round the basin, 
and allow the infusion to stand for several hours, in or- 
der to extract the flavor. When about to mix the jelly, 
strain the syrup through a napkin into a basin, and 
put the pieces of pine-apple to drain upon a sieve; add 
two ounces of clarified isinglass or gelatine to the 
pine-apple syrup, and then pour the jelly into a mould 
previously imbedded in ice. 

Strawberry Jelly. 

Pick the hulls from four quarts of strawberries, 
put these into a basin, and then pour one pint of clari- 
fied boiling syrup and half a pint of red currant juice 



DISHES FOR DESSERT. 285 

on them; cover them with a sheet of paper, tightly 
twisted round the edges of the basin, and allow the 
infusion to stand in a cool place until it becomes cold; 
then, filter it through a beaver jelly bag in the usual 
way, and when the whole has run through perfectly 
bright, mix it with two ounces of clarified isinglass, 
and set the jelly in a mould imbedded in ice. This 
jelly maybe garnished with strawberries. 

Macedoine of Fruits. 
This may be made with any kind of jelly, which 
should be mixed with a variety of the most delicate 
fruits in season; these should be arranged with taste, 
so as to show their forms and colors to the best ad- 
vantage. The fruits most appropriate for this pur- 
pose are peaches, nectarines, apricots, all kinds of 
plums, strawberries, raspberries, red, white and black 
currant*, cherries, pears, oranges, pomegranates, 
grapes, etc. 

Pistachio Jelly. 
Prepare some jelly, with Dantzic brandy (some- 
times named "gold and silver water"). Parboil and 
remove the skin from six ounces of pistachios, and 
shred each kernel into six strips. Set a jelly mould 
in some pounded ice contained in a pan, pour a little 
of the jelly into the bottom of the mould, and then 
strew some of the prepared pistachios in it; when this 
has become firm, pour in a little more of the jelly and 
strew a few of the pistachios in it; as these layers be- 
come set, repeat the same until the mould is filled, 
and allow the jelly to remain imbedded in the ice long 
enough to congeal it properly. 

Variegated Jelly. 
This maybe prepared with any kind of light colored 
jelly, which must be divided into two equal parts; 



286 DISHES FOR DESSERT. 

add a few drops of cochineal to one-half, and leave 
remainder plain. Then imbed the mould in ice, pour 
the pink jelly into the mould to the depth of about a 
quarter of an inch, and when this has become set, 
pour as much of the plain jelly upon it; when this 
has congealed, repeat another layer of the pink jelly, 
and go on alternating the different colored layers of 
jelly until the mould is filled. 

The design for this kind of jelly may be varied ac- 
cording to taste, by observing the following direc- 
tions: Fill two small plain moulds with different 
colored jelly, such as pink and white noyeau, or am- 
ber and very light pink orange jelly, and when these 
have become firm, turn them out of their respective 
moulds upon a dish. Next, imbed a plain mould in 
some broken ice, and then cut the different colored 
jellies into strips, or fancy-shaped ornaments, which 
must be so 'managed as to admit of their being fitted 
into each other, thus entirely covering the bottom of 
the mould with the design so formed; a little of the 
jelly must first be poured at the bottom of the mould, 
to cause the decoration to adhere together. The sides 
of the mould should then be ornamented by placing 
alternate strips of the different jellies in a perpendicu- 
lar position, and these must first be dipped in a little 
liquid jelly. The mould being lined according to the 
foregoing directions, the hollow may be filled up with 
either a Macedoine jelly of fruits, with any kind of 
cream, or with the remainder of the same, so ar- 
ranged in it as to have the appearance of marble 
when cut. 

Russian Jelly. 

Put about two-thirds of either of the before-men- 
tioned kinds of jelly into a basin, partially imbedded 
in ice, then whip the jelly with a whisk, until it as- 



DISHES FOR DESSERT. 287 

sumes the appearance of a substantial froth, and be- 
gins to thicken: it must then be immediately poured 
into a mould, and kept in ice until required to be 
served. 

Punch Jelly. 

Put the prepared stock from four calves' feet into a 
stew-pan, to melt on the stove; then withdraw it, and 
add thereto the following ingredients: Two pounds 
of loaf sugar, the juice of six lemons .and four 
oranges, the rind of one orange and of four lemons, 
half a nutmeg, twelve cloves, two sticks of cinnamon, 
a small cup of strong green tea, a pint of rum, half a 
pint of brandy, and a glass of arrack. Stir these well 
together, then add six whites and two whole eggs 
whipped up with a little sherry and water, and con- 
tinue whisking the punch over a brisk fire until it be- 
gins to simmer, then set it down by the side of the 
fire, and cover the stew-pan with its lid containing 
some live embers of charcoal; about ten minutes after, 
pour the jelly into a flannel or beaver filtering bag; 
keep pouring the jelly back into the bag until it be- 
comes quite clear and bright, and when the whole has 
run through, set it in a mould in ice in the usual way. 

Oranges Filled with Transparent Jelly. 

Select half a dozen oranges without specks on the 
rind, make a hole at the stalk end with a circular 
cutter, about half an inch in diameter, and then use a 
small teaspoon to remove all the pulp and loose pith 
from the interior; when this is done, soak the orange 
skins in cold water for about an hour, then introduce 
the. spoon through the aperture, and scrape the in- 
sides smooth, and after rinsing them again in cold 
water, set them to drain on a cloth. Next, stop up 
any holes that may have been made in them while 



288 DISHES FOR DESSERT. 

scooping out the pulp, and set the oranges in some 
pounded ice contained in a deep pan; fill three of 
them with bright pink orange jelly, and the re- 
mainder with plain jelly. When the jelly has be- 
come firm, wipe the oranges with a cloth, cut each 
into quarters, dish them up tastefully on a napkin, and 
send to the table. 

Currant and Raspberry Jelly. 

Pick the stems from a quart of ripe red currants 
and two quarts of raspberries; put these into a small 
preserving pan with one pound of sugar and a gill of 
water; stir the whole on a stove and keep it boiling 
for about five minutes; remove the scum as it rises to 
the surface, and then rub the whole through a hair 
sieve into a large basin; add two ounces of clarified 
isinglass or gelatine, and then pour it into a jelly 
mould, ready imbedded in ice. When this kind of 
jelly is set firm, dip the mould in warm water, wipe 
it, and turn the jelly out on its dish; fill the well or 
cylinder with some stiffly-whipped cream, and serve. 

Apricot Jelly. 

Remove the stones from eighteen ripe apricots, and 
put them into a small preserving pan with one pound" 
of loaf sugar and a gill of water; stir this over a brisk 
fire, until the whole of the fruit is entirely dissolved; 
and then rub it through a hair sieve into a large 
basin; add two ounces of clarified isinglass or gela- 
tine, and fill a jelly mould, ready imbedded in ice, 
with the preparation. When the jelly is set firm, 
turn it out on its dish, and fill the centre with whip- 
ped cream. 

Note. — These jellies may be made of any kind of 
fruit before directed to be used for both jellies and 
creams; and also with pears, apples and quinces. 



dishes for uessekt. 289 

Jellied Oranges. 

One dozen of oranges, one package of gelatine, dis- 
solved in a cup of cold water, three cups of white 
sugar, the juice of the oranges and juice of two 
lemons, two cups of boiling water. Soak the gela- 
tine tAVO hours in cold water, then add the sugar, 
juices of oranges and lemons and boiling water. Cut 
the oranges in halves and run out the pulp with a 
spoon. Take care not to tear the skins; throw the 
empty skins in cold w^ater; wupe dry before using. 
Fill with jelly, and put away to cool. The skins can 
be pointed with scissors for improvement in looks. 
Do not pour in skins while too hot. 

Lemon Jelly — No. 1. 

One box of gelatine soaked one hour in a pint of 
cold water, one quart of boiling water, the juice of 
five lemons, the grated rind of one lemon, two pounds 
of white sugar. Strain and let it stand till cold. 

Lemon Jelly — No. 2. 

One box of gelatine, one quart of cold water, mix 
and stand one and one-quarter hours; two pounds of 
white sugar, one pint of wine, juice of three lemons, 
and grated rind of one lemon; stand one and one- 
quarter hours; then add one quart of boiling water to 
the whole and strain through a flannel bag. 

Cider Jell 

One box of gelatine, soaked one hour in a pint of 
cold water, two coffee-cups of white sugar, two 
lemons, grated rind of one, one pint of cider, one 
quart of boiling water. Let it come to a boil and 
strain. 



290 dishes for dessert. 

Coffee Jelly. 

Soak one-half a box of gelatine in a cup of water 
one hour, and add two cups of boiling water, one cup 
of sugar, one cup of clear strong coffee. 

Gelatine Jelly. 

An ounce and a half of gelatine, one quart of water, 
half a pint of wine, the juice of two lemons, three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar, tw^o eggs and shells, 
and boil from fifteen to twenty minutes without 
touching, then strain through a jelly-bag, and cool 
for use. 

Irish Moss Jelly. 

Wash and pick an ounce of this moss; boil it in a 
pint and a half of water for twenty minutes; strain it 
and pour it into a dish to jelly. 

Wine Jelly 

Soak well tw^o ounces of gelatine in a pint of cold 
water, add the juice of one lemon, one-half pint of 
wine, one and a half pounds of sugar, a quart of 
boiling water; boil in a porcelain kettle until dis- 
solved thoroughly, then pour into the moulds, which, 
should first be rinsed with cold water. 

Fruit in Jelly. 

Put into a basin half a pint of clear calf's foot jelly, 
and when it has become stiff, lay in three fine 
peaches, and a bunch of grapes with the stalks up- 
ward; over which put a few vine-leaves, and fill up 
the bowl with jelly. Let it stand till next day, and 
then set the bowl in hot water up to the brim for a 
minute; then turn it out carefully on a dish. 



dishes for dessert. 291 

Lemon Honeycomb. 

Sweeten the juice of a lemon to your taste, and put 
it in the dish that you serve it in. Mix the white of an 
egg that is beaten with a pint of rich cream, and a 
little sugar; whisk it, and as the froth rises, put it on 
the lemon juice. Do it the day before it is to be used. 

Orgeat. 

Boil a quart of new milk with a stick of cinnamon, 
sweeten to your taste, and let it grow cold; then pour 
into it by degrees three ounces of almonds, and 
twenty bitter, that have been blanched and beaten to 
a paste, with a little water to prevent oiling; boil al- 
together, and stir till cold, then add half a glass of 
brandy. 

Orange Fool. 

Mix the juice of three nice oranges, three eggs well 
beaten, a pint of cream a little nutmeg and cinna- 
mon, and sweeten to your taste. Set the whole over 
a slow fire, and stir it till it becomes as thick as good 
melted butter, but it must not be boiled; then. pour 
it into a dish to cool and harden. 

Moonshine. 

This dessert combines a pretty appearance with 
palatable flavor, and is a convenient substitute for 
ice cream. Beat the whites of six eggs in a broad 
plate to a very stiff froth; then add, gradually, six 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, beaten for not less 
than thirty minutes, and then beat in, after being cut 
in tiny pieces; one-half cup of preserved peaches; or 
you can use one cup of jelly. In serving, pour into 
each saucer some rich cream, sweetened and flavored 



292 DISHES FOR DESSERT. 

with vanilla, and on the cream, place a liberal portion 
of the moonshine. This quantity is a sufficient amount 
for eight or ten persons. 

Ornamented Custard. 

Put a rich custard into a shallow dish. When it 
shall have become cold, lay on it, in any shape you 
please, the beaten whites of two new-laid eggs in a 
firm froth, and over that sift refined sugar. Put it 
into an oven to become a fine light brown. 

Sweet Potato Custard. 

One pound of potatoes mashed and sifted fine, half 
pound of sugar, a small cup of cream, one-fourth 
pound of butter, and four eggs; nutmeg and lemon to 
suit the taste. If you have no cream put half a pound 
of butter. This makes two large custards. 

Rich Custard. 

Boil a pint of milk with lemon peel and cinnamon. 
Mix a pint of cream and the yolks of five eggs well 
beaten; when the milk tastes of the seasoning, 
sweeten it enough for the whole. Pour it into the 
cream, stirring it well; then give the custard a sim- 
mer till of the proper thickness. Do not let it boil. 
Stir the whole time one way; season as above. If it 
be extremely rich, put no milk, but a quart of cream 
to the eggs. 

Baked Custard — No. 1. 

Boil one pint of cream, half a pint of milk with 
mace, cinnamon and lemon peel, a little of each. 
When cold, mix the yolks of three eggs. Sweeten 
and make your cups of paste nearly full. Bake them 
ten minutes. 



DISHES FOR DESSERT. 293 

Baked Custard — No. 2. 

Boil a pint of cream with some mace, cinnamon, 
and a little lemon peel. Strain it, and when cold, add 
it to the yolks of four eggs, and whites of two eggs, a 
little orange-flower water, and sugar to your taste. 
A little nutmeg, and two spoonfuls of sweet wine 
may be added, if approved. Mix well, and bake in 
cups. 

Snow Custard. 

Take one quart of milk and four large eggs; set the 
milk on the fire in a clean vessel; then separate the 
eggs, and beat the whites to a stiff froth. When the 
milk is scalding hot, slip the whites on the top, turn- 
ing them over gently, so that they will cook; then lift 
them out and dish; whip up the yolks with two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar; pour into the milk, stirring 
rapidly all the time it is scalding. The very moment 
it comes to the boiling point lift it off; if it boils it 
will curdle. When it cools sufficiently, pour it into 
the dish with any kind of flavoring, then put the froth 
on top. 



2Q^ ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



295 



^gg ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 297 



298 ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



ICE CREAM AND ICES. 



-s=®=<- 



DlR'ECTIONS FOR FREEZING. 



Break the ice fine enough to go in easily between 
the pail and can. If the pieces are too large they 
may dent the can, or the freezer may catch at every 
turn of the crank. Mix with coarse salt in the pro- 
portion of one part of salt to four parts of ice. Put 
the beater-into the can, then pour in the liquid to be 
frozen. Have the can two-thirds full, put the cover 
on, then place the point on the bottom of the can into 
the iron centre at the bottom of the pail. Fill the 
pail or tub with salt and ice to the top of the can, let 
it stand fifteen minutes and then begin to turn. In 
about twenty minutes the cream will be frozen. Keep 
the ice and salt above the line of the cream in the 
can. The waste hole in the pail, which should be a 
little below the top of the can, will not allow the 
water to get into the cream if kept open. It is im- 
portant that the bearings of the freezer be kept well 
oiled. 

To Keep Cream after Freezing. 

Remove the beater, cover the can, and, should the 
ice have melted very much, drain off a portion of the 
water and fill up with ice and salt. Cover and keep 
in a cool place. 



300 ice cream and ices. 

Philadelphia Ice Cream, No. 1. 

One quart of cream, one pint of milk, one-half 
pound of sugar, whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla. Stir the egg into 
the cream, add the sugar and vanilla, and stir until 
cool; then freeze. This makes two quarts. 

Philadelphia Ice Cream, No. 2. 

Two pounds of white sugar, one medium sized 
vanilla bean; cut the bean into small pieces and boil 
in one pint of the cream; strain, add the sugar, mix 
well with three quarts and one pint more of cream, 
and then freeze. 

Italian Cream. 

One-half box of gelatine, one cup of sweet milk. 
Put in the stove until the gelatine melts; then cool 
and strain; flavor with one cup of white sugar, one 
teaspoonful of vanilla; pour this into one quart of 
whipped cream; freeze. 

Vanilla Ice Cream. 

Three pints of cream, one pint of milk, one pound 
of sugar, one quarter box of gelatine dissolved in a 
small cup of lukewarm water; add this to the milk 
and then add the milk to the above, stirring con- 
stantly till thoroughly mixed; then add one table- 
spoonful of vanilla, or soak one vanilla bean in the 
gelatine. First whipping the cream is a great im- 
provement to the above. 

Lemon Ice Cream, 

Lemon ice cream is made the same as vanilla if 
extract of lemon is used. If you choose to use lemons, 



ICE CREAM AND ICES. 301 

grate the yellow part of the rind of four lemons off 
and boil in a little water; then strain and add to the 
mixture. 

Strawberry Ice Cream. 

One quart of strawberries mashed and strained 
through a jelly-bag, one pint of sugar, one-half pint 
of milk, three pints of cream. Put in the freezer 
and let stand fifteen minutes and freeze. 

Coffee Ice Cream. 

One quart of cream, one pint of milk, one-half 
cup strong coffee, one pound of sugar, one-quarter of a 
box of gelatiae dissolved in a little warm water; strain 
the dissolved gelatine into the above, stirring con- 
stantly until thoroughly mixed. 

Caramel Ice Cream, 

Caramel ice cream is made the same as vanilla, 
except use burnt sugar for flavoring instead of ex* 
tract of vanilla, which may be prepared by putting a 
teacupful of sugar in a small frying-pan, and stir 
over the fire until the sugar turns to a liquid and 
begins to smoke. 

Chocolate Ice Cream. 

One quart of cream, one pint of milk, one pound of 
sugar, one-quarter box of gelatine dissolved in half of 
the milk, and strained; dissolve two ounces of bakers' 
chocolate in the remainder of the milk; add the dis- 
solved gelatine and chocolate and freeze. 

Banana Ice Cream. 

One quart of cream, one-half pound of sugar, and 
four bananas rubbed through a fine sieve. Let it 
stand in the freezer fifteen minutes and freeze. 



302 ice cream and ices. 

Pistachio Ice Cream. 

One quart of cream, one-half pound of sugar, one 
ounce of almonds and one-half ounce of pistachio 
nuts, both blanched and pounded fine. One-half a 
teaspoonful of spinach green added to this cream 
gives a delicate color. 

Ice Cream without Cream. 

One quart of milk, two tablespoonfuls corn starch, 
three eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 
Scald the milk and corn starch well and then add 
yolks. Remove from the stove and add the -whites 
and sugar to taste. When cool, flavor. 

Orange Ice No. 1. 

To each quart of water add the juice of four 
oranges, the grated rind of one, one pound of white 
sugar, the grated rind of one-half a lemon, and the 
juice of one lemon to every four quarts of the mix- 
ture. Strain through a fine sieve into the can and 
freeze. 

Orange Ice No. 2. 

One quart of water, three-quarters of a pound of 
sugar, the juice of two lemons, the juice of three 
oranges and the grated rind of one, the white of an egg, 
and one-quarter of a box of gelatine dissolved in the 
water. Strain and freeze. 

Lemon Ice. 

One quart of water, one pound of sugar, the juice 
of five lemons, grated rind of one lemon, one-quarter 
of a box of gelatine dissolved in the water. Strain 
and freeze. 



ice cream and ices. t^os 

Pine-apple Ice. 

One quart can of pine-apple, or one large fresh 
pine-apple grated and strained through a fine sieve^ 
one quart of water, one and one-quarter of a pound 
of sugar, the white of an egg, and one-quarter of a 
box of gelatine dissolved in the water. Pour in the 
can and freeze. 

Apricot or Peach Ice 

May be made the same as pine-apple ice, but use apri- 
cots or peaches. 

Raspberry Ice. 

One quart of water, one pound of sugar, juice of 
three lemons, white of an egg, the juice of one quart 
of raspberries, and one tablespoonful of gelatine dis- 
solved in the water. Strain and freeze. Canned 
raspberries may be used and the quantity of sugar 
lessened. 

Banana Ice. 

One quart of water, three quarters of a pound of 
sugar, juice of two lemons, the whites and yokes of 
three eggs beaten separately, one teaspoonful of gela- 
tine dissolved in the water, and six bananas grated 
fine. Strain and freeze. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 297 



JELLIES AND CANNED FRUITS. 



Jelly. 

Heat the fruit until soft; then squeeze out the juice 
and for each pint allow a pint of sugar. Boil the 
juice for fifteen minutes and add the sugar. Boil two, 
three or five minutes, till it jellies, testing it by drop- 
ping some on a cold saucer. Berries need only to be 
heated to extract their juice; apples and like fruit 
need a little water to stew them in. A sure and sim- 
ple way of covering jelly tumblers is to lay a lump of 
paraffine on the hot jelly, letting it melt and spread 
over the top. It is more successful as an air-tight 
covering than the white of an egg and similar appli- 
ances, and is easily removed by slipping a knife 
around the edges. The paraffine can be used another 
year. 

Plum Jelly. 

Take sound plums, put them in a stone jar, cover 
the jar with a bladder, put it in a deep pan of water 
over the fire, and let the water boil gently till all the 
juice has come from the fruit, strain through a jelly 
bag, and boil with an equal weight of loaf sugar, stir- 
ring all the time. Damsons should have a slight in- 
cision. 



JELLIES AND CANNED FRUITS. 299 

Apple Jelly. 

Cut and core apples without paring, cover with 
water, and let them cook slowly until the apples look 
red; then pour into a bag and gently squeeze out all 
the liquid that will flow freely; boil the liquor again 
xxalf an hour. Then add one-half pound of sugar to a 
pint of juice, and boil quickly fifteen minutes. 

Peach Jelly. 

Pare well ripened peaches, and remove the pits; 
boil until soft in water to cover them; strain through 
a cloth. To a quart of liquor add a pound of white 
sugar; then boil till thick. 

, Currant Jelly. 

Strip the fruit from the stems, and in a stone jar 
stew them in a sauce pan of water; strain off the 
liquor, and to every pint weigh a pound of loaf 
sugar; put the latter in large lumps into it, in a stone 
or china vessel, till nearly dissolved; then put it in a 
preserving pan ; simmer and skim as necessary. 
When it will jelly on a plate, put it in small jars or 
glasses. 

Cranberry Jelly. 

Wash and pick over the fruit, and boil till soft in 
water enough to cover it. Strain through a sieve, 
and weigh equal quantities of the pulp and sugar. 
Boil gently fifteen or twenty minutes, taking care it 
does not burn. 

Currant Jelly without Cooking. 

Press the juice from the currants, and strain it; to 
every pint put a pound of fine white sugar; mix them 



300 JELLIES AND CANNED FRUITS. 

together until the sugar is dissolved; then put in jars, 
seal them, an4 expose them to a hot sun for two or 
three days. 

Preserved Peaches. 

Take ripe free-stone peaches; pare, stone and quar- 
ter them. To six pounds of cut peaches allow three 
pounds of the best brown sugar. Stew the sugar 
among the peaches, and set them away in a covered 
vessel Next morning, put the whole into a preserv- 
ing kettle, and boil it slowly about an hour and three- 
quarters, or two hours, skimming it well. 

Preserved Pears. 

Take six pounds of pears to four pounds of sugar; 
boil the parings in as much water as will cover them; 
strain it through a colander; lay some pears in the 
bottom of your kettle, put in some sugar, and so on 
alternately; then pour over the pears the liquor from 
off the pear skins; boil them until they begin to look 
transparent, then take them out and let the juice cool, 
and clarify it; put the pears in again, and add some 
ginger; boil till done; let the liquor boil after taking 
them out, until it is reduced to a syrup. 

Yellow Tomato Preserves. 

One peck of yellow tomatoes, one dozen lemons, 
one-half ounce of sliced ginger root, six pounds of 
sugar; add one pint of vinegar to the preserves when 
cold. 

Preserved Cherries. 

Stem and stone them carefully, preserving the 
juice. To one quart of cherries allow one pound of 



JELLIES AND CANNED FRUITS. 301 

sugar. Make a syrup, allowing half a pint of water 
to a pound of sugar. Boil and skim it, and when the 
scum has ceased to rise, put in the cherries and their 
juice, and boil them up slowly. 

Grape Preserves. 

Squeeze with your fingers the pulp from each 
grape. Put the pulps over the fire, and boil them till 
they are tender; then press them through a colander, 
so that the seeds may be taken out; now add the 
skins to the pulps and juice. Put a cupful of sugar 
to each cupful of fruit, and boil all together until of 
a thick consistency. Green grape preserves are also 
nice. In managing the green grapes, halve them and 
extract the seeds with a small knife. Put also a cup- 
ful of sugar to a cupful of fruit. Many prefer the 
green to the ripe grape preserves. 

Marblehead Preserved Peaches. 

Take a peck of ripe peaches, stone and pare them; 
allow a bowl of white sugar to a bowl of peaches; 
put a layer of peaches into the stone jar, then a layer 
of sugar, and so on until they are used up. Let them 
stand for two days; drain off the syrup, boil and skim 
and turn over the peaches; stand two days; drain oif 
the syrup, scald and skim, and again return to the 
peaches, and it is fit for use. 

Preserved Quinces. 

Into two quarts of boiling water put a quantity of 
the fairest golden pippins, in slices not very thin, and 
not pared, but wiped clear. Boil them very quick, 
covered closely, till the water becomes a thick jelly; 



302 JELLIES AND CANNED FRUITS. 

then scald the quinces. To every pint of pippin jelly- 
put a pound of the finest sugar; boil it, and skim it 
clear. Put those quinces tliat are to be done whole 
into the syrup at once, and let it boil very fast; and 
those that are to be in halves by themselves. Skim 
it, and when the fruit is clear, put some of the syrup 
into a glass to try whether it jellies before taking off 
the fire. The quantity of quinces is to be a pound to 
a pound of sugar, and a pound of jelly already boiled 
with the sugar. 



Preserved Strawberries. 

Take equal weights of the fruit and sugar; lay the 
former in a large dish, and sprinkle half the sugar, in 
fine powder, over; give a gentle shake to the dish, 
that the sugar may touch the under side of the fruit. 
Next day make a thin syrup with the remainder of 
the sugar, and, instead of water, allow one pint of red 
currant juice to every pound of strawberries; in this 
simmer them until sufficiently jellied. Choose the 
largest when not dead ripe. In the above way they 
are nice served in thin cream, in glasses. 



Preserved Pears. 

Pare them very thin, and simmer in a thin syrup; 
let them lie a day or two. Make the syrup richer, 
and simmer again; and repeat this till they are clear; 
then drain and dry them in the sun or a cool oven a 
very little time. They may be kept in syrup, and 
dried as wanted, which makes them more moist and 
rich. 



JELLIES AND CANNED FRUITS. 303 

Preserved Pine-apples. 

Twist out the crown of the pine-apple, and pare off 
the hard, yellow rind; next slice the fruit about half 
an inch thick, and trim it quite clean round the edges, 
taking care of the trimmings. Put them into the pre- 
serving pan w4th one quart of cold water, and boil till 
reduced to half a pint; strain it, then put in the slices 
on the fire with the juice and equal weight of fine 
white sugar. Boil gently half an hour. 

Preserved Siberian Crab-apples. 

Boil a pint of water and a pound and a half of re- 
fined sugar to a fine clear syrup; skim it, and let it 
become cold; and to this quantity of syrup put a 
pound of fruit, and simmer slowly till tender. Care- 
fully remove each apple separately, and pour the 
syrup over when a little cooled, and add orange and 
lemon peel boiled tender. 



Canned Fruit. 

Allow three pints of fruit, one cup of water and 
one cup of sugar to every one-quart can of straw- 
berries, raspberries, cherries, currants and grapes. 
Put in the water, then the sugar, and when it is 
boiled, put in your fruit. Let it boil slowly for ten 
minutes, skim well and then can. Be sure to fill 
your can so that when you put on your cover they 
Vv'ill run over. Press the glass cover firmly with your 
hand before putting on the, ring. If this is done 
right, and the rubber rings are new, which they should 
be every year, they will seal without any difficulty. 



304 jellies and canned fruits. 

Canned Pine-apple. 

For six pounds of fruit when cut and ready to can, 
make syrup with two and a half pounds of sugar and 
nearly three pints of water; boil syrup five minutes 
and skim or strain if necessary; then add the fruit 
and let it boil up; have your cans hot; fill and shut 
up as soon as possible. Use the best white sugar. 
As the cans cool keep tightening them up. 

Orange Marmalade. 

Rasp the oranges, cut out the pulp, boil the rinds 
very tender, and beat fine in a mortar. Boil three 
pounds of loaf sugar in a pint of water, skim it and 
add a pound of the rind. Boil fast until the syrup is 
very thick, but stir it carefully. Then put in a pint 
of the juice (the seeds and pulp having been removed) 
and a pint of apple liquor. Boil all gently until well 
jellied, which will take about half an hour. 

Lemon Marmalade. 

It is made the same as the orange. It is an ele- 
gant sweetmeat. 

Apple Marmalade. 

Scald apples till they will pulp from the core; then 
take an equal weight of sugar in large lumps, just dip 
them in water, and boil it till it can be well skim- 
med, and is a thick syrup; put to it the pulp, and sim- 
mer it on a quick fire a quarter of an hour. Grate in 
a little lemon peel before boiling; too much will 
make it bitter. 

Crab-apple Marmalade. 

Boil the apples in a kettle until soft, with just 
water enough to cover them. Mash and strain 



JELLIES AND CANNED FRUITS. 305 

through a coarse sieve. Take a pound of apples to a 
pound of sugar. Boil half an hour and put in jars. 

Quince Marmalade. 

Pare and quarter quinces; weigh an equal quantity 
of sugar; to four pounds of the latter put a quart of 
water, boil and skim, and have ready against four 
pounds of quinces. They are made tolerably tender 
by the following mode: Lay them into a stone jar, 
with a teacup of water at the bottom, and pack them 
with a little sugar strewed between, cover the jar 
close, and set it on a stove or cool oven, and let them 
soften till the color becomes red; then pour the fruit- 
syrup and a quart of quince-juice into a preserving 
pan, and boil all together till the marmalade be com- 
pleted, breaking the lumps of fruit with the preserv- 
ing ladle. This fruit is so hard, that if it be not done 
as above, it requires a great deal of time. Stewing 
quinces in a jar, and then squeezing them through a 
cloth, is the best method of obtaining the juice to add 
as above, and dip the cloth in boiling water first, and 
wring it. 

Tomato Marmalade. 

To two pounds of tomatoes allow two pounds of 
sugar, and the juice and grated rind of one lemon. 
Scald the tomatoes, take off the skins, mix the sugar 
with them, and boil them slowly for an hour, skim- 
ming and stirring; add the juice and grated rind of 
the lemon, and boil another half hour, or until it is a- 
thick smooth mass. 

Transparent Marmalade. 
Cut the oranges to be used in quarters; take the 



306 JELLIES AND CANNED FRUITS. 

pulp out and put in a basin, pick out the seeds and 
skins. Let the outsides soak in water with a little 
salt all night, then boil them in a good quantity of 
pure water till tender; drain and cut them in very thin 
slices, and put them to the pulp; and to every pound, 
a pound and a half refined sugar beaten fine; boil 
them together twenty minutes, but be careful not to 
break the slices. If not quite clear, simmer five 
or six minutes longer. It must be stirred all the 
time very gently. When cold, put it into glasses. 

Cherry Marmalade 

Stem and stone your cherries, saving as much of 
the juice as possible; allow one pound of sugar to 
one pint of cherries. Boil the fruit and sugar to- 
gether uncovered for an hour, skimming and stirring 
well. When cool, put in pots and cover tight. 

Marmalade. 

Select very ripe fruits — grapes, crab-apples or 
quinces. Cut the fruit having a core in halves and 
stew until tender in water enough to cover the bot- 
tom of the kettle; strain through a fine colander or 
sieve to remove the skin and seeds. For each pint of 
pulp allow a pound of sugar, and boil half an hour, 
stirring constantly. Spice may be added if desired. 
The marmalade should be firm and hard when cold. 

Spiced Currants. 

Five pounds of whole currants, three and one-half 
pounds of white sugar, one pint of vinegar, two tea- 
spoonfuls of ground cloves, two teaspoonfuls of 
ground cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls of ground all- 
spice, one nutmeg. Boil one hour, and be careful 
about burning. 



JELLIES AND CANNED FRUITS. 307 

To Can Currants without Cooking. 

To every pound of stemmed currants pour on one 
pound of white sugar, not cooked. They want to 
stand on ice from twelve to sixteen hours. The 
sugar wants to be thoroughly mixed in among the 
currants. After you take them off the ice, put them 
in cans. 

Apple Jam. 

Weigh equal quantities of brown sugar and good 
sour apples; pare, core and chop them fine; make a 
good, clear syrup of the sugar. Add the apples, the 
juice and grated rind of three lemons, and a few 
pieces of white ginger. Boil it till the apples look 
clear and yellow; this resembles foreign sweetmeats. 
On no account omit the ginger. 

Quince Jam. 

Twelve ounces of brown sugar to one pound of 
quince. Boil the fruit in as little water as possible^ 
until the fruit will mash easily. Pour off the water, 
mash the fruit with a spoon, put in the sugar, and boil 
twenty minutes, stirring often. 

Gooseberry Jam for Tarts. 

Put twelve pounds of gooseberries, when ripe, into 
a preserving pan, with a pint of currant juice, drawn 
as for jelly. Let them boil pretty quick, and beat 
them with a spoon. When they begin to break, put 
to them six pounds of pure white sugar, and simmer 
slowly to a jam. It requires long boiling, or it will 
not keep. It is an excellent and not expensive thing 



308 JELLIES AND CANNED FRUITS. 

for tarts or puffs. Look at it in two or three days, 
and if the syrup and fruit separate, the whole must be 
boiled longer. Be careful it does not burn to the 
bottom. 

Raspberry Jam. 

Weigh equal quantities of fruit and sugar. Put the 
former in a preserving pan, boil and break it, stir con- 
stantly, and let it boil very quickly. When most of 
the juice is wasted, add the sugar, and simmer half an 
hour. This way the jam is greatly superior in color 
and flavor to that which is made by putting the sugar 
in at first. 

Currant Jam. 

Let the fruit be very ripe, pick it clean from the 
stalks, bruise it, and to every pound put three-quar- 
ters of a pound of loaf sugar; stir it well, and boil 
half an hour. 

Grape Jam. 

Boil grapes soft and strain through a sieve. Weigh 
the pulp thus obtained, and put a pound of sugar to 
one pint of pulp. Boil twenty minutes, stirring fre- 
quently. 

Green Gage Jam. 

Rub ripe green gages through a sieve, put all the 
pulp into a pan with an equal weight of loaf sugar 
pounded and sifted. Boil the whole till sufficiently 
thick, and put into pots. 

Quince Sauce. 

Cut, pare and core a quart of quinces, cover in 
water and boil till perfectly tender, then add three- 



JELLIES AND CANNED FRUITS. 309 

quarters of a pound of sugar, and continue boiling for 
ten or fifteen minutes, that the sugar may penetrate 
the quince. 



Brandy Peaches. 

Drop the peaches in hot water, let them remain till 
the skins can be taken off; make a thin syrup, and let 
it cover the fruit; boil the fruit till they can be 
pierced with a straw; take it out, make a very rich 
syrup, and add, after it is taken from the fire, and 
while it is still hot, an equal quantity of brandy. 
Pour this, while it is still warm, over the peaches in 
the jar. They must be covered with it. 

Brandy Apricots or Peaches. 

Wipe, weigh and pick the fruit, and have ready a 
quarter of the weight of fine powdered sugar. Put 
the fruit into an ice pot that shuts very close; throw 
the sugar over it, and then cover the fruit with 
brandy. Between the top and cover of the pot, put a 
piece of double cap paper. Set the pot into a sauce 
pan of water till the brandy be as hot as you can pos- 
sibly bear to put your finger in, but it must not boil. 
Put the fruit into a jar, and pour the brandy on it. 



Brandy Grapes. 

Take some close bunches, black or white, not over- 
ripe, and lay them in a jar. Put a good quantity of 
pounded white sugar-candy upon them, and fill up 
the jar with brandy. Tie them down with a bladder, 
and k^ep in a dry place. Each grape should be 
pricked thrice. 



310 jellies and canned fruits. 

Raspberry Brandy. 

Pick fine dry fruit, put it into a stone jar, and the 
jar into a kettle of water or on a hot hearth, till the 
juice will run; strain, and to every pint add half a 
.pound of sugar, give one boil, and skim it; when cold 
put equal quantities of juice and brandy; shake well, 
and bottle. Some people prefer it stronger of the 
brandy. 

Stewed Pears. 

Pare and halve, or quarter, large pears, according 
to their size; throw them into water, as the skin is 
taken of, before they are divided, to prevent their 
turning black. Pack them round a block tin stew 
pan, and sprinkle as much sugar over as will make 
them pretty sweet, and add lemon peel, a clove or 
two, and some allspice cracked; just cover them with 
water. Cover them close, and stew three or four 
hours. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 311 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



DRINKS. 



->«=:- 



Coffee. 

The variety of coffees is much larger than most 
people imagine, as that grown in Brazil and also in 
other places is sold as Java and Mocha. More than 
one-half of the coffee produced by the world is of 
Brazilian growth, and yet the coffee of Brazil has 
very little reputation, simply because the best pro- 
duced there is sold under other names, as before 
stated. Coffee should be carefully roasted, as the 
flavor largely depends upon it. The natural color of 
the coffee bean is pale green, and should be evenly 
roasted till it acquires a chestnut-brown color. If 
roasted to a black color it gives a burnt and disagree- 
able flavor to the beverage. Slightly heating the dry 
coffee before making improves it. There are num- 
berless modes of preparing coffee, each, of course, 
having its advantages and disadvantages, but 'all 
should combine the two important principles, viz: to 
extract the largest amount of aroma and body, and to 
render the fluid clear and free from grounds. Good 
cream adds much to the flavor of coffee, but when 
cream cannot be procured, boil the milk, as it makes 
the coffee richer and more palatable. The milk 
should merely come to a boil, and then be taken off 
the fire, as toomuch boiling makes it oily and strong. 



314 • DRINKS. 

Coffee to many people is injurious, but taken without 
cream is said by physicians to be harmless. Do not 
buy ground coffee, as it is very extensively adulter- 
ated, and also harmful in its effects upon the system. 
One-third Mocha and two-thirds Java is the correct 
proportion for good coffee. A small egg, shell and 
all, broken into the pot with the dry coffee improves 
it greatly, as it makes it richer. It should boil from 
five to ten minutes, counting from the time it begins 
to boil. Take the coffee from the stove and let it 
stand a little while to settle. Probably the most 
economical way to prepare the beverage is to filter it. 
A filtering coffee pot can be obtained at any hardware 
store, and consists of tw^o cylindrical tin vessels, one 
fitting into another, and the bottom of the upper be- 
ing a fine strainer. The strength of the coffee can be 
more effectually obtained by this method. 

Chocolate. 

Those who use much of this article will find the 
following mode of preparing it both useful and 
economical: Cut a cake of chocolate in very small 
bits; put a pint of water into the pot, and, when it 
boils, put in the chocolate; mill it off the fire until 
quite melted, then on a gentle fire till it boils; pour 
it into a basin, and it will keep in a cool place eight 
or ten days, or more. When wanted, put a spoonful 
or two into milk, boil it with sugar, and mix it well. 

Cocoa or Broma. 

To one pint of milk put four heaping teaspoonfuls 
of cocoa or broma, dissolved smoothly in one-half 
cup of milk. Stir in the milk when at boiling point. 
Remove from the fire, after allowing it to boil briskly 
three minutes, and stir in sugar to taste. 



DRINKS. 315 

Verder. 

Pare six oranges and six lemons as thin as you 
can, grate them after with sugar to get the flavor. 
Steep the peels in a bottle of rum or brandy tightly 
corked twenty-four hours. Squeeze the fruit on two 
pounds of sugar, add to it four quarts of water, and 
one of new milk, boiling hot; stir the rum into the 
above, and run it through a jelly bag till perfectly 
clear. Bottle, and cork close immediately. 

Ice Punch. 

Make a rich sherbet, and grate a piece of sugar on 
a lemon or citron for flavor; then beat the whites of 
five or six eggs to a froth, and by degrees stir it into 
the sherbet; add rum and ice, and serve in glasses. 

Milk Punch. 

Take two tablespoonfuls of brandy, a little sugar 
and a gill of hot water; add a gill of milk and a little 
nutmeg. 

Roman Punch. 

Three coffee cups of lemonade, strong and sweet, 
one glass of champagne, one glass of rum, the pieces 
of two oranges, two eggs, whites well whipped, one- 
half pound of powdered sugar, beaten into the stiff- 
ened whites. Ice. 

Currant Shrub. 

Boil currant juice and sugar, in proportion of one 
pound of sugar to one pint of juice, five minutes. 
Stir it constantly while cooling; when cold, bottle it. 
Use like raspberry shrub, one spoonful or two to a 
tumbler of water. 



31Q DRINKS. 

Pine-apple Sherbet. 

One can of pine-apple, a small pint of sugar, one 
pint of water, one tablespoonful of gelatine. Cut the 
hearts and eyes from the fruit, and chop it very fine, 
add the juice from the can, the water andboil them in 
thin clarified sugar, let them imbibe the sugar, and be 
careful to preserve their form; make a marmalade 
with some other apples, adding to it four ounces of 
rice,> previously boiled in milk, with sugar and butter 
and the yolks of two or three eggs; put them into a 
dish for the table; surround it with a border of rice 
and marmalade, and bake it. 

Lemon Sherbet. 

The juice of five lemons, one pint of sugar, one 
quart of water, one tablespoonful of gelatine. Put 
together like the pine-apple. 

Sassafras Mead. 

Three pounds of brown sugar, one pint of molasses, 
one-quarter pound of tartaric acid. Mix together; 
pour over them two quarts of water and stir until 
dissolved. When cold, add half an ounce of essence 
of sassafras, and bottle. When you wish to drink it, 
put three tablespoonfuls of it in a tumbler, filled half 
full with ice water, add a little more than one-quarter 
of a teaspoonful of soda. An excellent summer 
beverage. 

Sarsaparilla Mead. 

Three pounds of sugar, three ounces of tartaric 
acid, one ounce of cream tartar, one ounce of flour, 
one ounce of essence of sarsaparilla, three quarts of 
water. Strain and bottle it, then let it stand ten days 
before using. 



DRINKS. 317 

Raspberry Shrub. 

Take three quarts of red raspberries, and one quart 
of cider vinegar, and put together in a vessel, adding 
one pound of sugar to the pint, and let it stand 
twenty-four hours; then strain, scald and skim it. 
Bottle when cold. 

Ginger Beer*. 

Pour four quarts of boiling water on one ounce and 
a half of ginger, one ounce of cream of tartar, one 
pound of brown sugar, and two lemons sliced thin. 
Put in two gills of yeast, let it ferment twenty-four 
hours, and bottle it. It improves by keeping a few 
weeks, unless it is very hot weather, and it is a very 
nice beverage. 

Maple Beer. 

To four gallons of boiling water, put one quart of 
maple syrup, and one tablespoonful of essence of 
spruce; when about milk-warm, add one pint of 
yeast, and when fermented, bottle it. In three days it 
is fit for use. 

Blackberry Cordial. 

To each quart of blackberry juice add one pound of 
white sugar, one tablespoonful of cloves, one of all- 
spice, one of cinnamon and one of nutmeg. Boil all 
together for fifteen minutes, and add a wine-glass of 
pure brandy. Put while hot into bottles, cork and seal. 
This will keep several years. 

Egg Nogg. 

The yolks of six eggs, with four tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, a little nutmeg, a glass of wine, and two glasses 



.318 DRINKS. 

of brandy; then add, when well mixed, a quart of 
milk. It is refreshing in summer to add ice, pounded 
very fine. 

Lemonade. 

Take one dozen lemons and squeeze the juice 
into a bowl or glass (not into a tin); strain out all the 
seeds; remove the pulps from the peels, and boil in 
one pint of water a few minutes; then strain the 
water into the juice of the lemons; put in a pound of 
sugar to each pint of juice Bottle it. Use one or 
two tablespoonfuls of this syrup into each glass of 
ice water. 

Cream Nectar. 

Three pounds of sugar, three pints of water, white 
of one Ggg, and three ounces of tartaric acid. Dis- 
solve the sugar in the water, add the beaten white of 
the egg, and let it come, to a boil. When cold, add 
tartaric acid, and flavor to taste. 

Sauterne Cup. 

One bottle of Sauterne, one pint of Vichy water, two 
oranges sliced, a bunch of balm, the same of burrage, 
one ounce of pulverized sugar candy. Place these in- 
gredients in a covered jug imbedded in ice for an 
hour and a quarter previous to the cup being required 
for use, and then strain through a jelly bag. 

Claret Cup. 

One bottle of claret, one pint bottle of German 
seltzer water, a small bunch of balm, the same of bur- 
rage, one orange cut in slices, half a cucumber sliced 
thick, a liquor glass of cognac, and one ounce of pul- 
verized sugar candy. Put the ingredients in a cov- 



DRINKS. 319 

ered jug well imbedded in ice, stir all together with a 
spoon, and v/hen the cup has been iced for about an 
hour, strain it off free from the herbs, etc. 



Pine-apple Cup. 

Eight ounces of pine-apple sliced very thin, one 
bottle of Ai wine, a sprig of verbina, a wine-glassful 
of Maraschino, one quart bottle of double soda water, 
and one ounce of pulverized sugar candy. Thor- 
oughly imbed the wine and the soda water in ice for 
an hour previous to its being required for use; and 
then, first place the slices of pine-apple, the verbina, 
the Maraschino, and the sugar candy in a glass jug, 
and afterwards add thereto the iced wine and soda 
water. 

Champagne Cup. 

One bottle of champagne, one quart bottle of Ger- 
man seltzer water, two oranges sliced, a bunch of 
balm, the same of burrage, and one ounce of pounded 
sugar candy. Place the ingredients in a covered jug 
imbedded in ice for an hour and a quarter previous 
to its being required for use, and then strain it free 
from the herbs, etc. 

Chablis Cup. 

One bottle of Chablis, one pint of German seltzer 
water, one bunch of balm, the same of burrage, one 
orange sliced, and one ounce of pulverized sugar 
candy. Put the ingredients in a covered jug imbed- 
ded in ice for an hour and a quarter previous to its 
being required for use, and then strain the cup free 
from the herbs, etc. 



320 DRINKS. 

Badminton Cup. 

One bottle of red Burgundy, one quart of German 
seltzer water, the rind of one orange, the juice of two, 
a wine-glass of curacoa, a bunch of balm, the same of 
burrage, a sprig of verbina, one ounce of pulverized 
sugar candy, and a few slices of cucumber. Place 
the ingredients in a covered jug imbedded in ice for 
about an hour previous to its being required for use, 
and afterward strain the cup free from the herbs, etc. 

Cider Cup. 

One quart of cider, one pint of German seltzer 
water, a small glass of cognac, a bunch of balm, the 
same of burrage, a sliced orange, one ounce of pul- 
verized sugar candy. Place the ingredients in a cov- 
ered jug imbedded in ice for an hour and a quarter, 
and then strain the cup free from herbs, etc. 

Note. — Any other aerated water may be substituted 
iox seltzer, or the cup may be prepared without the 
addition of any w^ater. 

Unfermented Wine. 

Weigh the grapes, pick from the stems, put in a 
porcelain kettle, add very little water, and cook until 
stones and pulp separate; press and strain through a 
thick cloth, return the juice to the kettle, and for 
every ten pounds of grapes add three pounds of 
sugar; heat to simmering, and seal up hot. This 
quantity makes about a gallon of wine. 

Grape Wine. 

Three quarts of juice, two pounds of sugar; let it 
stand six weeks, or until it has stopped working; 
then skim and bottle. 



DRINKS. 321 

Wine Whey. 

Boil half a pint of new milk; while it is boiling, 
put in a cup of white wine; stir it up, turn it into a 
bowl, and let it stand about ten minutes; then turn it 
off from the curd, and flavor it as you like with sugar. 

Currant Wine — No. 1. 

Four pounds of currants, three pounds of sugar, 
and one gallon of water. Place the currants, stems 
and all, in a tub, and mash them well; add the water, 
set in a cool place, and stir occasionally; continuethe 
stirring for three days; then drain the liquor through 
a sieve, squeeze the pulp in a cloth, add the sugar, 
stirring until it is all dissolved, and put into a barrel 
or cask, which should stand in a dry, cool cellar. 
When fermentation is over, bung up tight and leave 
all winter. Rack off in the spring before, the second 
fermentation, and bottle after the second fermenta- 
tion. 

Currant Wine — No. 2. 

To one gallon of currant juice put nine pounds of 
the best sugar, and two gallons of water. Set it 
where it will not be disturbed, and bottle at the end 
of one year. 

Currant Wine — No. 3. 

Eleven quarts of currant juice, and thirty-four 
pounds of the best brown sugar. Put it in a ten gal- 
lon keg, and fill the keg with water; after a few days 
cork, and let it remain until winter. 

A Rich and Pleasant Wine. 

Take new cider from the press, mix it with as much 
honey as will" support an egg, and boil gently fifteen 



322 DRINKS. 

minutes, but not in an iron, brass or copper pot. 
Skim it well. In March following, bottle it, and it 
will be fit to drink in six weeks; it w411 be less sweet 
if kept longer in the cask. You will have a rich and 
strong wine, and it will keep well. This will serve 
for any culinary purposes which sweet wine is di- 
rected for. 

Raspberry Wine. 

To every quart of well-picked raspberries, put a 
quart of water; bruise, and let them stand two days; 
strain off the liquor, and to every gallon put three 
pounds of lump sugar; when dissolved, put the 
liquor in a barrel, and when fine, which will be in 
about two months, bottle it, and to each bottle put a 
spoonful of brandy, or a glass of wine. 

Black Currant Wine. 

To every three quarts of juice, put the same of 
water uftboiled; and to every three quarts of the 
liquor, add three pounds of very pure moist sugar. 
Put it into a cask, reserving a little for filling up. 
Put the cask in a warm dry room, and the liquor will 
ferment of itself. Skim off the refuse, when the fer- 
mentation shall be over, and fill up with the reserved 
liquor. When it has ceased working, pour three 
quarts of brandy to forty quarts of wine. Bung it 
close for nine months, then bottle it, and drain the 
thick part through a jelly bag until it is clear, and 
bottle that. Keep it ten or twelve months. 

Elder Wine. 

To every quart of berries put two quarts of water, 
boil half an hour, run the liquor and break the fruit 



DRINKS. 323 

through a hair sieve; then to every quart of juice put 
three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Boil the whole 
a quarter of an hour, with some Jamaica peppers, 
ginger, and a few cloves. Pour it into a tub, and 
when of a proper warmth, into a barrel, with toast 
and yeast to work, which there is more difficulty to 
make it do than most other liquors. When it ceases 
to hiss, put a quart of brandy to eight gallons, and 
stop up. The liquor must be, in a warm place to 
make it work. 

White Elder Wine. 

Boil eighteen pounds of white powdered sugar, 
with six gallons of water, and the whites of two eggs 
well beaten; then skim it, and put in a quarter of a 
peck of elder flowers from the tree that bears white 
berries; do not keep them on the fire. When near 
cold, stir it, and put in six spoonfuls of lemon juice, 
four or five of yeast, and beat well into the liquor; 
stir it every day; put six pound of the best raisins, 
stoned, into the cask, and tun the wine. Stop it close, 
and bottle in six months. When well kept, this wine 
will pass for Frontiniac. 

Cherry Rum. 

A peck of black wild cherries, soaked in cold water 
for twenty-four hours. Put them in a demijohn, add 
two pounds of brown sugar, two quarts of blackber- 
ries, and a gallon of the best New England rum. 
The older it is the better, if kept well corked. It is 
excellent for summer complaints. 



„„. ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 325 



CONFECTIONERY. 



-S=S>=!- 



CocoANUT Candy Quickly Made. 

Grate the meat of a cocoanut, and having ready 
two pounds of finely sifted white sugar, the beaten 
whites of two eggs, and the milk of the nut, simply 
mix all together, and make into little cakes. In a 
short while the candy will be dry enough to use, and 
found to be as good as if boiled. 



Chocolate Caramels — No. 1. 

Three pounds of sugar (brown will do), half a 
pound of butter, one teacupful of milk or cream — the 
latter, of course, preferable, and two cupfuls of 
chocolate. Boil rapidly until candied, when it may 
be either cut into squares or moulded into small thin 
cakes. 

Chocolate Caramels — No. 2. 

One cupful of chocolate cut up fine, two cupfuls of 
brown sugar, one cupful of warm water, and three- 
quarters of a cupful of butter. Boil until it will harden 
when dropped in cold water; then pour into shallow 
buttered pans, and when almost cold, cut into small 
squares. 



CONFECTIONERY. 327 

CocoANUT Taffy. 

One cup of cocoanut grated, one cup of sugar, one 
cup of molasses, butter the size of an egg. 

CocoANUT Drops. 

Beat the whites of four eggs with one-half pound 
of powdered sugar until very light; flavor with lemon. 
Add grated cocoanut until it is thick enough to stir 
easily with a spoon. Lay in little heaps on sheets of 
paper. Bake in a quick oven. 

Molasses Candy — No. 1. 

Two cupfuls of molasses, one tablespoonful of 
sugar; stir occasionally while boiling; before taking 
from the fire add butter half the size of an egg, and 
one-third teaspoonful of soda. Pour into buttered 
tins, and when cool enough pull it. 

Molasses Candy — No. 2. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of molasses, one- 
half cupful of water; after it begins to boil add one- 
quarter teaspoonful of cream of tartar; cook in the 
usual way, but do not stir; before taking from the 
fire, add butter half the size of an egg. Do not but- 
ter your hands while pulling. 

Chocolate Cream Drops. 

White of one egg beaten thoroughly, one pound of 
lozenge sugar, and one teaspoonful of water; make 
into a stiff dough, and mould in drops on marble; 
take two squares of bakers' chocolate, melt it, and 
roll the cream drops into it until covered well; then 
set away to. cool. 



328 CONFECTIONERY. 

Caramels. 

Take one cupful of molasses, two cupfuls of sugar, 
and boil ten minutes; then add one large tablespoon- 
ful of flour, butter the size of an egg, and one-half 
pound of chocolate. Boil twenty minutes. 

Cream Candy. 

One pound of loaf sugar, two-thirds of a coffee cup 
of water, one-half teaspoonful of cream of tartar, two 
teaspoonfuls of vinegar, butter the size of a walnut; 
flavor with vanilla; boil and stir twenty minutes. 

Ice Cream Candy. 

Two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-half cupful of 
water, add one-fourth teaspoonful of cream of tartar 
dissolved in water, as soon as it boils. Boil about ten 
minutes; do not stir it. When done, it will be brittle 
if dropped in cold water; add butter half the size of 
an egg just before taking off the stove. Pour into a 
buttered tin to cool, and pull it as hot as possible; 
flavor while pulling, with vanilla, checkerberry or 
any extract to suit taste. 

Lemon Drops. 

Grate three large lemons, with a large piece of 
double-refined sugar; then scrape the sugar into a 
plate, add half a teaspoonful of flour; mix well, and 
beat it into a light paste with the white of an egg. 
Drop it upon white paper, and put them into a 
moderate oven on a tin plate. 

Marshmallow Drops. 

Dissolve one-half pound of gum arable in one pint 
of water; strain and add one-half pound of white 



CONFECTIONERY. 329 

sugar, and place over the fire, stirring constantly un- 
til the syrup is dissolved and of the consistency of 
honey; then add gradually the whites of four eggs 
well beaten. Stir the mixture until it becomes some- 
what thin and does not adhere to the fingers. Flavor 
to taste, and pour all into a pan slightly dusted with 
powdered starch, and when cool, divide into small 
squares. 

Fig Candy,. 

One cupful of sugar, one-third of a cupful of water, 
one-fourth of a teaspoonful of cream of tartar; do not 
stir while boiling; boil to an amber color, and stir in 
the cream of tartar just before taking from the fire. 
Wash the figs, open and lay in a tin pan and pour the 
candy over them. 

Vinegar Candy. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one-half cupful of water, 
four tablespoonfuls of vinegar; stir before putting on 
the stove, and not after. 

Taffy. 

Two cupfuls of brown sugar, one-half cupful of 
butter, four tablespoonfuls of molasses, two table- 
spoonfuls of water, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 
Boil fifteen minutes. 

> Everton Taffy. 

One pound of powdered loaf sugar, one teacupful 
of water, one-quarter of a pound of butter, six drops 
of essence of lemon. Put the water and sugar in a 
brass pan on the stove. Beat the butter to a cream; 
when the sugar is dissolved, add the butter, and keep 
stirring the mixture over the fire until it sets. Just 
before the taffy is done add the lemon. 



330 confectionery. 

Nut Candy. 

Three cupfuls of sugar, one-half cupful of vinegar^ 
one-half cupful of water. Prepare two cupfuls of 
any kind of nutmeats, spread them on well-buttered 
plates, and pour the candy over; when done, test it by 
dropping a little in cold water; when it hardens into 
a little lump it is done. 

Corn Balls. 

Boil one cupful of molasses and two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar twenty minutes. When done, rub one-half 
of a teaspoonful of soda smooth; then stir in pop 
corn. Butter the hands, and ball. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 33I, 



332 ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



FOR THE SICK ROOM. 



Indian Meal Gruel. 

To make a cupful of gruel, take a tablespoonful of 
Indian meal, wet it with a little water; pour on to it 
half a pint of boiling water, and let it boil half an 
hour. Nutmeg, sugar and cream may be added if 
approved. 

Caudle for Invalids. 

A highly nourishing caudle for invalids is made 
with two moderate spoonfuls of manioca stirred into 
a quart of cold water, with a little butter, a blade or 
two of mace, and some grated lemon peel. Boil a 
quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, stirring con- 
stantly that it may be quite smooth. Sweeten with 
refined honey, or sugar if preferred. Add spice to 
taste, and one glass of brandy or white wine. Should 
the mixture become too thick, stir in a little boiling 
water while the mixture is yet warm. 

Cough Syrup. 

Five cents* worth of licorice, five cents' worth of 
horehound candy, five cents' worth of gum arable, 
all steeped together in one pint of water; then pour 
in one ounce of paregoric. 



334 for the sick room. 

Oatmeal Gruel. 

Put on a cupful of raisins in a quart of water to 
boil; boil them hard for half a hour. Take two 
tablespoonfuls of oatmeal and make smooth with cold 
water; add a little salt; w^hen the raisins are boiled 
enough, stir in the thickening; let it boil up and skim 
it well; then add a bit of butter, a little white sugar, 
and grate a little nutmeg on the top when it is served. 

Scotch Broth. 

Two pounds of the scraggy part of a neck of mut- 
ton; cut the meat from the bones, and cut off the fat; 
then cut the meat into small pieces and put into the 
soup pot with one large slice of turnip, two of carrot, 
one onion and a stalk of celery, all cut fine, half a 
cupful of barley and three pints of cold water. Sim- 
mer gently two hours. On to the bones put one pint 
of water; simmer two hours, and strain upon the 
soup. Cook a tablespoonful of flour and one of but- 
ter together until perfectly smooth; stir into the soup, 
and add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Season 
with salt and pepper. 

Beef Tea— No. 1. 

One pound of lean beef, cut into small pieces; put 
into a jar without a drop of water; cover tightly and 
set in a pot of cold water. Heat gradually to a boil, 
and continue this steadily for three or four hours, un- 
til the meat is like white rags, and the juice all drawn 
out. Season with salt to taste, and when cold, skim. 
The patient will often prefer this ice cold to hot. 

Beef Tea— No. 2. 

Cut a pound of fleshy beef in thin slices; simmer 
with a quart of water twenty minutes, after it has 



FOR THE SICK ROOiM. 335 

once boiled and been skimmed. Season, if approved, 
but it has generally only salt. 

Mutton or Chicken Broth. 

One pound of lean mucton or chicken cut small, 
one quart of cold water, one tablespoonful of rice or 
barley, soaked in a very little warm water, four table- 
spoonfuls of milk, salt and pepper, with a little chop- 
ped parsley. Boil the meat, unsalted, in the Avater, 
keeping it closely covered, until it falls to pieces. 
Strain it out, add the soaked barley or rice; simmer 
half an hour, stirring often; stir in the seasoning and 
milk, and simmer five minutes after it heats up well, 
taking care it does not burn. Serve hot, with cream 
crackers. 

Chicken Panada. 

Boil a chicken until about three parts ready in a 
quart of water; take off the skin, cut the white meat 
off when cold, and put into a marble mortar. Pound 
it to a paste with a little of the water it was boiled in; 
season with a little salt, a grate of nutmeg, and the 
least bit of lemon peel. Boil gently for a few min- 
utes to the consistency you like; it should be such as 
you can drink, though tolerably thick. This conveys 
great nourishment in small compass. 

Sippets. 

On an extremely hot plate put two or three sippets 
of bread, and pour over them some gravy from beef, 
mutton, or veal, with which no butter has been mixed. 
Sprinkle a little salt over. This is an excellent dish 
when the stomach will not receive meat. 



336 i'^or i'he sick room, 

Flour Caudle. 

Into five large spoonfuls of the purest water rub 
smooth one dessert-spoonful of fine flour. Set over 
the fire five spoonfuls of new milk, and put two tea- 
spoonfuls of sugar into it; the moment it boils, pour 
into it the flour and water, and stir it over a slow fire 
twenty minutes. It is a nourishing and gently 
astringent food. This is an excellent food for babies 
who have weak bowels. 

Salep. 

Boil a little water, wine, lemon peel, and sugar to- 
gether; then mix with a small quantity of the pow- 
der, previously rubbed smooth, with a little cold 
water; stir it all together, and boil it a few minutes. 

Milk Porridge. 

Make a fine gruel of half grits, long boiled; strain 
off; either add cold milk, or warm with milk, as may 
be approved. Serve with toast. 

French Milk Porridge. 

Stir some oatmeal and water together, let it stand 
to become clear, and pour off the latter; pour fresh 
water upon it, stir it well, let it stand till next day; 
strain through a fine sieve, and boil the water, adding 
milk while doing. The proportion of w^ater must be 
small. This is often ordered with toast, for the 
breakfast of weak persons. 

Ground Rice Milk. 

Boil one spoonful of ground rice, rubbed down 
smooth, with a pint and a half of milk, a bit of cinna- 
mon, lemon peel, and nutmeg. Sweeten when nearly 
done. 



for the sick room. 337 

Sago Milk. 

Cleanse the sago, and boil it slowly, and wholly 
with new milk. It swells so much that a small quan- 
tity will be sufficient for a quart, and when done it 
will be diminished to about a pint. It requires no 
sugar or flavoring. v^ 

Toast and Water. 

Toast slowly a thin piece of bread till extremely 
brown and hard, but not the least black; then plunge 
it into a jug of cold water, and cover it over an hour 
before used. This is of particular use in weak 
bowels. It should be of a fine brown color before 
drinking it. 

Wine Whey. 

Boil a quart of milk, add to it half a pint of wine, 
put on the fire till it boils again, then set aside till the 
curd settles, pour off the whey, and sweeten to taste. 
It is said good country cider is as nice as the wine. 

•Veal Broth. 

Stew a small knuckle in about three quarts of 
water, two ounces of rice, a little salt, and a blade of 
mace, till the liquor is half wasted away. 

Boiled Rice. 

Wash a cupful of rice, and add four cupful s of 
water, afid a teaspoonful of salt; let it simmer on the 
back of the range for two hours, and do not stir it. 

Toast Water. 

Two slices of stale bread, toasted brown, cut in 
pieces, and a pint of boiling water poured over. In- 



338 , FOR THE SICK ROOM. 

valids relish it with a glass of white wine added, and 
a little nutmeg grated over. 

Fresh Eggs for Invalids. 

Break an egg into a tumbler, add two teaspoonfuls 
of white sugar, and whip briskly; then add a glass of 
wine, and fill up the tumbler with milk. 

Hop Tea. 

Take a large spoonful of hops, and simmer in a pint 
of water; when strong enough of hops, strain off and 
add white sugar and a tablespoonful of gin. It is a 
quieting: drink, most excellent for nervous headache. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



339 



PERTAINING TO PLANTS. 



■>&=i- 



CONCERNING HoUSE PLANTS. 

The best temperature for house plants is from 
forty-eight degrees at night to seventy degrees dur- 
ing the day. 

Water thoroughly, but not too often. 

Give a.ir on every warm, sunny day. 

Shower all smooth-leaved plants frequently. 

Wash the leaves of English ivy with clean, cold 
water and a sponge — nothing else. 

In giving liquid manure — a heaping tablespoonfut 
stirred into a water-pailful of water is enough. 

Fix up all plants neatly. 

Clip off all dead or dying leaves. 

The oleander, calla lily, and hydranges may have 
water standing in the saucers under the pots. 

Vines should be watered more frequently than 
other plants. 

To kill the green fly or plant louse smoke the 
plants with tobacco. 

Very weak lime water will kill worms in the pots. 

Red spiders may be gotten rid of by frequently 
wetting the foliage and keeping the atmosphere moist. 

A pinch of flour of sulphur, sprinkled now and 
then on the leaves, will keep off mildew. 



• PERTAINING TO PLANTS. 341 

Do not forget to send your flowers to your sick 
neighbors. They do a world of good, and your 
plants thrive all the better for having the blossoms 
picked. 

If your plants should at any time get nipped with 
frost shower them with very cold water, and keep 
them in the shade for a day or two. 

If you want your plants to bloom well in winter, 
do not let them bloom in summer. 

Use water of the same temperature as the room. 

Keep the air moist; a pan of water kept on the 
stove, or a damp towel hung on the register, will do 
this. 

All plants need rest after blooming; set them away 
in the shade. 

A few drops of ammonia added to a pail of water, 
and applied once a week, will prevent the earth in the 
pots from getting sour. 

The mealy bug. which looks like a little more than 
a bit of dirt, must, like the scaly bug, be removed by 
hand picking. 

Do not be discouraged at one failure, but keep try- 
ing, until your windows are a living protest against 
frost and snow, and your room a bower of living 
green, that will never let the memory of summer days 
go out of your heart. 

One of the prettiest arrangements for plants is a 
window with two narrow shelves, placed one above 
the other, on which were three home-made flower 
pots containing a heliotrope, geraniums, pinks, be- 
gonias and other plants, all as thrifty as if grown in a 
green house. 

Plants may be protected from the frost by placing 
newspapers between the window and the plants. 



342 pertaining to plants. 

Oleander Slips. 

Oleander slips may be rooted as follows: Cut a 
little slit in the end of the slip large enough to put 
an oat kernal in; put the slip with the kernal in it in 
a bottle of water and hang it up on the wall. In a 
short time little rootlets will appear, and it may then 
be put in a pot, but without removing the oat. 

Calla Lilies. 

Calla lilies should be placed in a shady corner of 
the garden during the months of June and July and 
be given no water except that which falls from the 
clouds early in August; they should be put in a size 
larger pot with very rich earth, that is, loam-peat 
mixed; you cannot give too much water when grow- 
ing and they are wanted to bloom. 

Water Lilies. 

Water lilies may be successfully grown by sinking 
half a hogshead even with the ground, placing in soil 
taken from the bottom of a pond and planting a few 
roots therein. The hogshead is to be kept full of 
water, and the year following a crop of lilies sur- 
passing those usually found in ponds in a wild state 
will be produced. 

Flowers in Sand. 

Many pretty little blossoms of bulbs of violets, 
primroses and other spring flowers having short 
stalks, will keep fresh for a long time if each flower 
be pricked into a saucer or plate of wet sand. The 
great advantage of the sand over water used in the 
usual way, is that each bloom remains in its place just 
where fixed. .It is a good idea to keep a flat glass dish 



PERTAINING TO PLANTS 343 

filled as stated above, on the sideboard, and as these 
flowers decay, remove them, and stick in a few more 
in their places. 

Ashes and Iron for Flowers. 

The observation of practical and experimental 
gardners seems to confirm the fact that to procure 
brilliant colors in flowers, it is necessary to cover the 
soil with an abundance of ferruginous constituents 
and silica. The latter supplies a material (says S. E. 
Todd in one of his foreign exchanges) which is one 
of vast importance in the production of that brilliancy 
of the petals and the dark green clusters of the 
leaves. Then, if potash be added, or the ground be 
dressed round about the growing flowers with un- 
leached wood ashes, an increased brilliancy will ap- 
pear in every petal and leaf. Any person who culti- 
vates only a few flowers in pots, or on grassy lawns, 
or on spacious piazzas, may readily satisfy himself of 
the exceedingly useful part the foregoing materials 
play in the production of beautiful flowers. Even 
white flowers, or roses that have petals nearly white, 
will be greatly improved in brilliancy by providing 
iron sand and unleached ashes for the roots of grow- 
ing plants. Ferruginous material may be applied to 
the soil where flowers are growing, or where they are 
to grow, by procuring a supply of oxide of iron, in 
the form of the dark colored scales that fall from the 
heated bars of iron when the metal is hammered, by 
the blacksmiths. Iron turnings and iron filings, which 
may be obtained for a trifle at most machine shops, 
should be worked into the soil near the flowers, and 
in a few years it will be perceived that all the minute 
fragments will have been dissolved, thus furnishing 
the choicest material for painting the gayest colors of 



344 PERTAINING TO PLANTS. 

the Bower garden. When there is an excess of veg- 
etable mold in a flower bed, and a deficiency of silica 
or sand, the flowers will never be so rich in color, nor 
so brilliant as they would be were a liberal dressing of 
sand, or sandy loam, worked down into the bed, where 
the growing roots could reach it. If wood ashes can 
be obtained readily, let a dressing be spread over the 
surface of the ground, about half an inch deep, and 
raked in. A dressing of quicklime will be found ex- 
cellent for flowers of every description. It is also of 
eminent importance to improve the fertility of the 
soil where flow^ers are growing, in order to have ma- 
ture, plump, ripe seeds. Let the foregoing materials 
be spread around the flowers, and raked in at any 
convenient period of the year. When soil is pre- 
pared for flow^ers in pots, let some sand, some oxide 
of iron and ashes be mingled thoroughly with the leaf 
mold. 

Religious Value of Flowers. 

The Bible, the most valuable of all books, speaks of 
the " Rose of Sharon " and the '' Lily of the Valley." 
Christ pointed to the latter for the purpose of illus- 
trating and enforcing the truth. The poet feels the 
inspiration of flow^ers, and employs them as rich ma- 
terials. One speaks of never-fading flowers that 
smile upon the everlasting fields of Paradise, and an- 
other of the shady rills of Sharon, where the lily and 
the rose contribute with their beauty and fragrance to 
the happiness of the devout. Their influence on the 
health and happiness of families, where cultivated, is 
proverbial. Absolutely we must surround ourselves 
with things beautiful and agreeable, or sink to a kind 
of heathenism. 



, pertaining to plants. 345 

Lilies for Pot Culture. 

If anyone wishes a showy plant for winter bloom- 
ing, let a bulb of Japan lily be set in a deep flower pot, 
with a compost surface soil from the woods, well 
rotted leaves, and enough rich, black loam to give it 
weight, all thoroughly mixed up together. Water 
slightly at first, but abundantly supply with moisture 
as growth progresses. Place in a sunny window, and 
the gorgeous flowers that are produced will sufficient- 
ly reward any one for the slight trouble required in 
taking care of them. After putting the bulb in the 
earth, the pot should be set in some cool, dark place 
until the roots get a good start. All bulbs for pot 
culture should be so treated. The calla lily is also 
very fine for window culture, and -even if it produced 
no flowers at all, its large, bright, green leaves should 
make it a general favorite. It is a plant not affected 
much by insects, except the green fly, which can be 
easily removed by sponging. 

To Raise Hyacinths in Winter. 

Put the bulbs in glasses on earth, and set them in a 
dark closet to sprout. If in glasses the water should 
not be higher than one inch below the bulb, until the 
roots have reached the water, when the glasses may 
be filled up, a piece of charcoal put in the water, and 
the plants set in the sun to grow. 

To Preserve Flowers. 

Flowers may be preserved for many months by dip- 
ping them carefully as soon as gathered in perfectly 
limpid gum water; after allowing them to drain for 
two or three minutes, arrange them in a vase. The 
gum forms a complete coating on the stems and petals, 



346 PERTAINING TO PLANTS. 

and preserves their shape and color long after thej 
have become dry. 

Hanging Garden. 

A hanging garden of sponge is a very pretty win- 
dow ornament. Take a good-sized sponge and sow 
it full of rice, oats or wheat, placing it for a week or 
ten days in a shallow dish containing water. The 
sponge will absorb the moisture and the seeds will 
begin to sprout before many days. When this has 
fairly taken place, the sponge may be suspended by a 
cord from a hook at the top of the window, so as to 
swing free, where it will get a little sun. It will thus 
become a living mass of green, and require but little 

moisture. 

« 

A Parlor Vine. 

To grow a pretty vine from the sweet potato, put a 
tuber in pure sand, or sandy loam, in a hanging bas- 
ket and water occasionally. It will throw out ten- 
drils and beautiful leaves, and climb freely over the 
arms of the basket and upwards toward the top of the 
window. There will not be one visitor in a hundred 
but that will suppose it to be some foreign plant. The 
dark green leaves might easily be taken for some new 
variety of ivy. As much pleasure can as often be got 
out of a common plant like the above as from one 
costly and rare. 

How TO Slip Geraniums. 

Slipping geraniums or other plants for winter 
flowering may be successfully done by cutting the slips 
diagonally partly off. Let them remain on the 
parent stock long enough to harden, after which, if 
put in wet sand, they will certainly take root and 
thrive. 



pertaining to plants. 347 

Autumn Work Among Flowers. 

Many persons who have taken great delight and 
pleasure in their brilliant flowers all through the sum- 
mer are often at a loss to know^ what to do with their 
favorites so that they may be ready to grow and 
blossom another season. Perhaps a little light maybe 
thrown upon this subject which will relieve perplexity. 
When the blackening touch of the frost has withered 
the stalks of tender bulbs and roots, such as dahlias, 
tuberoses, gladiolus, and Madeira vines, they should 
be taken up on the first bright, sunny day. Take the 
forenoon for the work, and dig up the bulbs care- 
fully, letting them lie in the sun for three or four 
hours, so that the earth attached to them will easily 
shake off. Then cut off the stalks a few inches from 
the bulbs, and put each variety in a paper bag, fasten- 
ing it so as to hang it up in a cool, but frost-proof 
cellar; heat and dampness will cause them to decay. 
Tuberoses, however, will not blossom another season, 
but the numerous little bulbs which adhere to the 
parent bulb will, if kept in a dry, warm closet, and 
planted out in May or June, grow well another sum- 
mer. 

Ferns. 

Nothing is more beautiful for interior decoration 
than the ferns which grow so luxuriantly in almost 
every pasture and woodland. The ferns are pressed 
and used in their natural state in decorating w^alls, 
fire screens, vases, etc., and produce a very pleasing 
effect. This style of decoration is growing in popu- 
larity, and promises to open a way to a productive in- 
dustry. Let anybody who wishes to earn an honest 
penny, gather a supply of ferns, and in the holiday 
season they will sell readily. 



348 pertaining to plants. 

Mounting Ferns. 

By taking a little trouble, pretty pictures may of- 
ten be made out of fern fonds, considered useless in 
the greenhouse, or, at all events, by the use of a few 
which may be cut off and never missed. After the 
ferns have been removed, they should be dried be- 
tween sheets of botanical drying paper; even old 
newspaper or blotting paper will answer the purpose. 
Presuming that a collection of dried ferns is at hand, 
a sheet of nice cardboard should be procured; some 
like white cardboard, other, nicely tinted — which is 
the best. The ferns should then be laid lightly on it, 
and arranged according to taste; they should be 
lifted up again, and their backs glued with a fine 
brush, so as to make them stick to the paper. Should 
any gold or silver varieties be among those selected, 
they should be placed so as to show the colors of the 
under sides of the fonds. The light colored moss, 
wliich is to be found growing on old trunks of trees, 
if interspersed through the ferns, tends to give the ar- 
rangement a light and elegant appearance, if placed 
round or under a handsomely illuminated text. 

Effective Arrangement for Cut Flowers. 

The first thing to be considered in arranging cut 
flowers is the vase. If it is scarlet, blue, or many- 
colored, it must necessarily conflict with some hue in 
your bouquet. Choose, rather, pure white, green, or 
transparent glass, which allows the delicate stems to 
be seen. Brown Swiss wood, silver, bronze, or yel- 
low straw conflict with nothing. The vase must be 
subordinate to what it holds. A bowl for roses; tall 
spreading vases for gladiolus, fern, whitQ lilies and 
the like; cups for violets and tiny wood flowers; bas- 
kets for vines and gay garden blossoms. A flower 



PERTAINING TO PLANTS. 349 

will in time collect shapes and sizes to suit each 
group. Colors should be blended together with 
neutral tints, of which there are an abundance — whites, 
grays, purples, tender greens — and which harmonize 
the pink, crimsons, and brilliant red into soft unison. 
The water should be warm for a winter vase; cool, 
but not iced, for a summer one. A little salt or a bit 
of charcoal should be added in hot weather, to obviate 
vegetable decay, and the vase filled anew each morn- 
ing. With these precautions your flowers, if set be- 
side an open window at night, will keep their fresh- 
ness for many hours even in July, and reward by 
their beautiful presence the kind hand which arranged 
and tended them. 

A Good Way to Plant Spring Bulbs. 

The only objection made to beds of spring bulbs is 
that though beautiful beyond description while the 
bulbs are in flower, the time of blooming is short; 
and thereafter the beds look bare and are not availa- 
ble for other purposes. This fault can be overcome 
by a little management and the use of such bulbs as 
bloom successively. The following arrangement has 
proved successful for several years. Make a round 
bed of any size and plant an inner circular row of 
crocus, and next outside a row of crocus, and next 
outside a row of hyacinths; then a second row of 
crocus, and next one of tulips between them. The 
row on the extreme edge must be crocus, and the 
space inside of the first row should be filled with 
tulips or hyacinths. The effect of a bed thus pre- 
pared is extremely pretty for a long time, and, thus 
arranged, it may remain undisturbed two or three 
years. Snow has no sooner gone than the bed is 
bright with the cheery little crocus, which apparently 



350 PERTAINING TO PLANTS. 

covers the whole surface. These will hardly have 
passed away when you will have a bed of hyacinths, 
in their delicate, lovely tints. The tulips then form a 
climax of gorgeousness that will last till the middle 
of June. The foliage of the crocus, which is ex- 
tremely delicate and pretty, is in perfection during 
the flowering of the hyacinths and tulips, and covers 
the bed as with a lovely green carpet, taking away the 
usual bare look of bulb beds, when out of their time 
of bloom. 

How TO Make Moss Baskets. 

Very beautiful baskets for holding flowers can be 
made of the longer and more feathery kinds of 
mosses. A light frame of any shape you like should 
be made with wire and covered with common paste- 
board or calico, and the moss, which should first be 
well picked and cleansed from any bits of dirt or dead 
leaves, which may be hanging about it, gathered into 
little tufts, and sewed with a coarse needle and thread 
to the covering, so as to clothe it thickly with a close 
and compact coating, taking care that the points of 
the moss are all outward. A long handle made in the 
same manner should be attached to the basket, and a 
tin or other vessel filled witheither wet sand or water, 
placed within to hold the flowers. By dipping the 
whole fabric into water three or four days, its verdure 
and elasticity will be fully preserved, and a block oi 
wood about an inch thick, and stained black or green, 
if placed under the basket, will prevent all risk of 
damage to the table from moisture. 

Care of Indoor Plants. 

Everyone knows that a plant grown in the dark is 
weak and colorless; and if it has plenty of light and 



PERTAINING TO PLANTS. 351 

little air, it will be slender and sickly. The gardner, 
therefore, is careful to give his green houses and hot 
beds not only light, but air at every convenient op- 
portunity. In winter he hails a bright, sunny day 
with delight. Plants will suffer from a currant of 
cold air just as their owner would, but will be bene- 
fited by an invigorating breath of fresh air. Provide, 
therefore, for air in some way, especially on pleasant 
days. Cleanliness is as necessary to the health of 
plants as to animals, and it is therefore necessary to 
secure them from dust as much as possible; and also 
to cleanse the plants frequently by syringing or 
washing. Even here a little caution is necessary, for 
while the smooth-leaved plants are benefited, not only 
by showering, but even by w^ashing the leaves with a 
cloth or sponge, the rough-leaved plants, like the 
begonia rex, do not like to have the surface of their 
leaves frequently moistened. It would, therefore, be 
well to remove such plants before syringing. Take 
every precaution, however, to prevent the accumula- 
tion of dust upon the plants. The essentials of suc- 
cess in plant culture are suitable soil, air, light, mod- 
erate and regular heat, a moist atmosphere, regular 
and moderate watering and freedom from dust and 
foul gas. 

Pretty Hanging Pots. 

Very pretty hanging baskets, or pots, can be made 
of the tops of goblets or the half of a cocoanut shell, 
by crocheting a net of some bright worsteds to hang 
them in. A petunia placed in one of these and sus- 
pended in the window is what people who are ex- 
tremely fond of flowers would call " lovely," when the 
long stems fall over the sides and are all covered 
with blossoms. The purple and white variety are the 



352 PERTAINING TO PLANTS. 

most beautiful. Very handsome hanging pots can be 
made in this manner at a cost of comparatively 
nothing. Try it. 

Pot Flowers. 

Many of those who attempt the raising of flowers 
in pots, make a fatal mistake at the very foundation, 
in the selection of the soil. Many use a soil which is 
too compact to allow water to pass freely through it, 
and the plants soon become "water logged." The 
soil should be porous enough to admit of the free 
passage of water, and yet not so open as to dry up. 
A pile composed of equal parts of partially decayed 
sods, manure and wood loam, will, when thoroughly 
decayed, make the best possible soil for pots. If sods 
and manure are used, garden soil may do, but most 
of it contains too much clay; this may be counter- 
acted by using sand. The soil must allow the water 
to pass freely through it, and too much should not be 
applied at one time; little and often is the safest rule. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 






Pot-pourri. 

Put into a large china jar the following ingredients 
in layers, with bay salt strewed between the layers: 
Two pecks of damask roses, part in buds and part 
blown; violets, orange flowers and jasmine, a handful 
of each; orris root sliced, benjamin, and storax, two 
ounces of each; a quarter of an ounce of niusk; a 
quarter of a pound of angelica root sliced; a quart of 
the red parts of clove gillyflowers; two handfuls 
of lavender flowers; half a handful of rosemary 
flowers; bay and laurel leaves, half a handful of each, 
three oranges, stuck as full of cloves as possible, 
dried in a cool oven, and pounded; half a handful of 
knotted marjoram; and two handfuls of balm of 
Gilead. Cover all quite close. When the pot is un- 
covered, the perfume is very fine. 

How TO Make Bandoline. 

Simmer one ounce of quince seed and one-quarter 
of an ounce of Iceland moss in one quart of water. 
Add a little rectified spirits to make it keep well. 
Perfume. Cork tight. It is an excellent recipe to 
hold the hair in place. 



354 MISCELLANEOUS. 

To Remove the Unpleasant Odor of Perspiration. 

The unpleasant odor produced by perspiration is of- 
ten the cause of much vexation to persons who are 
subject to It. Instead of using perfumery, wash the 
whole body with warm water, to which has been 
added two tablespoonfuls of the compound spirits of 
ammonia. It will leave the skin as sweet, clean and 
fresh as one can wish. It is recommended on the 
authority of an experienced physician. 

To Remove Corns. 

Take a piece of lemon, cut it so as to let the toe 
through, and put the pulp next to the corn. Two or 
three applications will cure. 

Soft Corns. 

Soft corns between the toes may be cured by a weak 
solution of carbolic acid. 

Ingrowing Nails. 

Cut a notch in the centre of the nail, or scrape it 
thin in the middle. Put a small piece of tallow in a' 
spoon and heat it over a lamp until it becomes very 
hot. Drop two or three drops between the nail and 
granulation. The pain and tenderness will soon be 
relieved, and in a few days the granulation will be 
gone. One or two applications will cure the most 
obstinate case. 

To Remove Warts. 

Dissolve three cents' worth of sal ammoniac in a 
gill of soft water. Wet the warts frequently. They 
will soon disappear. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 355 

How TO Make Rose Water. 

Take two drachms of magnesia and one-half ounce 
of powdered sugar; mix with these twelve drops of 
otto of roses; add two ounces of alcohol, and one 
quart of water filtered through blotting paper. 

Tincture of Roses. 

Take the leaves of the common rose (centifolious) 
and place, without pressing them, in a bottle. Pour 
some good spirits of wine upon them, close the bottle 
and let it stand until required for use. This tincture 
will keep for years, and yields a perfume little in- 
ferior to otto of roses. A few drops of it will im- 
pregnate the atmosphere of a room with a delicious 
odor. 

Ratafia. 

Blanch two ounces of peach and apricot kernels^ 
bruise and put them into a bottle, and fill nearly up 
with brandy. Dissolve half a pound of white sugar- 
candy in a cup of cold water, and add to the brandy 
after it has stood a month on the kernels, and they 
are strained off; then filter through paper, and bottle 
for use. 

Protection Against Moths. 

Closets that have been infested with moths should 
be well rubbed with a decoction of tobacco and re- 
peatedly sprinkled with spirits of camphor. Pieces 
of paper soaked with the same are good. 

To Clean the Hair. 

Take one ounce of borax and half an ounce of 
camphor. Powder these ingredients fine, and dis- 
solve in one quart of boiling water. When cold, the 



356 MISCELLANEOUS. 

solution will be ready for use. Dampen the hair 
with this frequently. It is claimed that this not only 
effectually cleanses and beautifies, but strengthens 
and preserves the hair. It also preserves the color 
and prevents baldness. 

To Prevent Hair frOiM Turning Gray. 

The hair should be well brushed every day, and be 
wet at the roots with strong sage tea. One ounce of 
borax to every quajt of the tea. Wet the scalp, and 
then brush for fully ten minutes. This will make 
harsh, rough hair, smooth and glossy. 

To Restore Gray Hair. 

Hair may be restored (when any remedy in the 
world will do it) to its natural color and beauty by 
the daily use of the following: Five grains of sul- 
phurate of potassium, half an ounce of glycerine, one 
ounce of tincture of acetate of iron, and one pint of 
soft water. Mix and let the bottle stand open until 
the smell of the potassium has disappeared; then add 
a few drops of otto of roses. The hair should be 
rubbed with a little of this daily. 

Tonic for the Hair. 

Two ounces of French brandy, two ounces of bay 
rum, and one ounce of the best castor oil, well mixed. 
It is an excellent tonic for the hair. 

To Beautify the Hair. 

The hair may be made more beautiful and darkened 
by taking four ounces of bay rum, two ounces of 
olive oil and one drachm of the oil of almonds. Mix, 
shake well and apply. 



miscellaneous. 357 

For the Care of the Teeth. 

Never allow a partical of food to remain between 
the teeth. Use the brush before breakfast and after 
each meal. Brush the back of the teeth as well as the 
front. Pure castile soap is better than powder. Use 
a tooth-pick freely after each meal. 

To Clean Black Teeth. 

Pulverize equal parts of salt and cream of tartar, 
and mix them thoroughly. After washing the teeth 
in the morning, rub them with this powder. After a 
few applications the blackness will disappear. 

To Beautify the Teeth. 

Dissolve in three pints of boiling water two ounces 
of borax. Add one teaspoonful of spirits of cam- 
phor. When you take a glass of water to brush your 
teeth, pour in a little. It is very pleasant and will 
strengthen the gums 

For the Complexion. 

One-half pint of new milk, one-half ounce of white 
brandy, one-quarter ounce of lemon juice, boiled to- 
gether. Skim clean from scum, and use night and 
morning. It will remove tan and freckles caused by 
the sun and wind. 

Complexion Wash. 

A good and perfectly harmless wash for the face 
can be made by adding one ounce of powdered gum 
of benzoin to a pint of white whisky; add water until 
it becomes milky. Pour a little into the palm of the 
hand, rub it all over the face and neck, and wipe 



358 MISCELLANEOUS. 

downwards with the palm of the hand until dry. It 
should not be used until after the face has been 
washed an hour. 

To Make Cold Cream. 

Twenty grains of white wax, two ounces of pure 
oil of sweet almonds, one-half ounce of pure 
glycerine, and six drops of oil of roses. Melt the 
first tSree ingredients together in a shallow dish over 
hot water. As it begins to cool, add the glycerine 
and oil of roses. Strain through muslin. Beat with 
a silver spoon until snowy white. It is excellent for 
chapped face and hands, and makes the skin fine and 
soft. 

To Make Lip Salve. 

Place a jar in a basin of boiling water. Melt one 
ounce each of white wax and spermaceti, fifteen 
grains of flour of benzoin, and half an ounce of oil of 
almonds. Stir until the mixture is cold. Color with 
a littie alkanet root. 

To Clean Hair Brushes. 

Put a tablespoonful of ammonia into tepid water, 
dip the brushes up and down in it until clean; then 
dry with the brushes downward and they will look 
like new. 

Measures for Housekeepers. 

Wheat flour, one pound is one quart; Indian meal, 
one pound and two ounces is a quart; butter (when 
soft), one pound is one quart; loaf sugar (broken), 
one pound is one quart; white sugar (powdered), one 
pound and one ounce is one quart; best brown sugar, 
one pound two ounces is one quart; eggs, ten are one 
pound; flour, eight quarts are one peck. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 359 

To Clean Zinc. 

Wash it in a solution of oxalic acid and water, and 
rub off with finely powdered slacked lime. 

To Wash Woolen. 

To every pail of water add one tablespoonful of 
ammonia, and the same of beef gall; wash out quick- 
ly, and rinse in warm water, adding a very little beef 
gall to the water. This will remove spots from car- 
pets, making them look fresh. 

To Clean Carpets. 

Mix ox gall and water; rub the carpet with a flan- 
nel dipped in the mixture; then rub dry with a linen 
cloth. 

How TO Use Beef's Gall in Setting Colors. 

Pour the gall from the bladder into a bottle, let it 
stand corked two or three days to settle. Pour about 
half of it into a pailful of warm bran water, stir it 
well together; then wash whatever you want to set the 
color quickly; rinse in two waters, and dry in a 
shady place. Most dark colors are " set " or fixed by 
using the gall, but some light, delicate colors, pink, 
blue, violet and lavender require the following treat- 
ment: Dissolve one tablespoonful of sugar of lead in 
half a pail of cold water. Put the article to be soaked 
into the water, and let it soak two or three hours; 
then wash quickly in bran water, no soap; rinse and 
dry as usual. In using sugar of lead, be careful not 
to put the hands into the water if there is a scratch or 
cut on them, as the lead is poisonous if it gets be- 
neath the skin. It is better to take the article out 
with a stick, drain, and then put it into the bran 
water and wash. 



360 miscellaneous. 

Camphor Ice. 

One-half ounce each of camphor gum, white wax, 
spermaceti, and sweet oil or lard; melt slowly the 
liard ingredients, and then add the oil. 

Lime Water. 

Put four ounces of quick lime into six pints of 
water; mix well, and let it stand in a covered vessel 
an hour; then pour off the liquid. 

Cure for Sore Throat. 

One ounce of tincture muriate of iron, and one 
ounce of chlorate of potash. Place one teaspoonful 
of the potash with the same quantity of the iron in a 
bottle holding one-half pint; shake well, and add 
enough syrup to fill the bottle. The syrup is pre- 
pared by placing in a vessel one cupful of white 
sugar, with just suflftcient water to dissolve it; heat, 
and when the sugar is dissolved, fill the bottle. Dose 
for an adult, one teaspoonful three or four times a 
day; dose for children, one-half teaspoonful three or 
four times a day. 

Grafting Wax. 

One and one-quarter pounds of beeswax, two 
pounds of resin and three-quarters of a pound of 
tallow 

To Remove Ink Stains. 

Ink can be removed from furniture, carpets, floors, 
etc., as follows: Wipe the spot v/ith oxalice, let it 
remain a few minutes, then rub it with a cloth wet 
with warm water. Colored paint, mahogany and car- 
pets will require washing with ammonia water to re- 
store the original color. 



iMlSCELLANEOUS 3gl 

Cure for a Bone Felon. 

Take soft soap and air-slacked lime and mix to a 
putty. Apply in a leather cot. 

Soft Soap. 

Twelve pounds of potash, eighteen pounds of 
grease and boiling water enough to fill the barrel. 
Then put in potash and grease. Stir often for a few 
days. 

Mrs. Woods's Salve. 

Three pounds of lard, one pound of bayberry-tal- 
low, three ounces of oil of rosemary, a piece of bees- 
wax the size of a butternut. Stir in the rosemary 
when cooled a little. 

A Strong Paste for Paper. 

To two large spoonfuls of fine flour put as much 
pounded resin as will lie on a shilling; mix with as 
much strong beer as will make it of a due consistence, 
and boil half an hour. Let it become cold before it is 
used. 

A Cure for Rheumatism. 

Lemon juice is recommended as a certain cure for 
acute rheumatism. It is given in quantities of a 
tablespoonful to twice the quantity of cold water, 
with sugar, every hour. The effect of the lemon juice 
is almost instantaneous. 

To Extract Grease from Cloth. 

For removing grease from cloth the following is 
infallible: To half a pint of pure alcohol add ten 
grains of carbonate of potash, half an ounce of oil of 



362 MISCELLANEOUS. 

bergamot, and one ounce of sulphuric ether; mix, 
and keep in a glass-stopped bottle. Apply with a 
piece of sponge, soaking the cloth thoroughly when 
the grease is not recent. The mixture emits a pecu- 
liarly fragrant odor, and being a fluid soap, chemi- 
cally composed, will be found a perfect solvent of 
oily matter. 

To Restore Crape. 

When a drop of water falls on a black crape veil or 
collar it leaves a conspicuous white mark. To ob- 
literate this, spread the crape on a table (laying on it 
a large book or a paper weight, to keep it steady), 
and place underneath the stain a piece of old black 
silk. With a large camel-hair brush dipped in com- 
mon ink go over the stain, and then wipe off the ink 
with a bit of old soft silk. It will dry immediately, 
and the white mark will be seen no more. 

An Ant Trap. 

Procure a large sponge, wash it well, and press it 
dry, which will leave the cells quite open; then 
sprinkle over it some fine white sugar, and place it 
near where the ants are most troublesome. They will 
soon collect upon the sponge, and take up their abode 
in the cells. It is then only necessary to dip the 
sponge in scalding water, which will wash them out 
" clean dead " by ten thousands. Put on more sugar, 
and set the trap for a new haul. This process will 
soon clear the house of every ant, uncle and progeny. 

Ink Stain. 

Housewives who are horrified at the sight of ugly 
ink stains W^ill like to get a recipe for removing them: 



MISCELLANEOUS. . 363 

The moment the ink is spilled, take a little milk and 
saturate the stain; soak it up with a rag, and apply a 
little more milk, rubbing it well in. In a few min- 
utes the ink will be completely removed. 

To Clean Decanters. 

Cut some raw potatoes in pieces, put them in the 
bottle with a little cold water; rinse them, and they 
will look very clean. 

To Clean Cut Glass. 

Cut glass should be rubbed with a damp sponge 
dipped in whiting; then brush this off with a clean 
brush, and wash the vessel in cold water. 

To Remove Rust. 

To remove rust from steel, cover with sweet oil, 
well rubbed on it; in forty-eight hours use unslacked 
lime powdered very fine. Rub it until the rust dis- 
appears. To prevent the rust, mix with fat oil var- 
nish four-fifths of well rectified spirits of turpentine. 
The varnish is to be applied by means of a sponge; 
and articles varnished in this manner will retain their 
brilliancy, and never contract any spots of rust. It 
may be applied to copper philosophical instruments, 
etc. 

To Take Stains of Any Kind Out of Linen. 

Stains caused by acids. — Wet the part, and lay on it 
some salt of wormwood. Then rub it without dilut- 
ing it with more water. 

Another. — Let the cloth imbibe a little water with- 
out dipping, and hold the part over a lighted match 
at a due distance. The spots will be removed by the 
sulphureous .gas. 



364 MISCELLANEOUS. 

Another way. — Tie up in tiie stained part some pearl 
ash; then scrape some soap into cold water to make a 
lather, and boil the linen until the stain disappears. 

Stains of wine, fruit, etc., after they have been long in 
the linen. — Rub the part on each side with yellow soap. 
Then lay on a mixture of starch in cold water very 
thick; rub it well in, and expose the linen to the sun 
and air until the stain comes out. If not removed in 
three or four days, rub that oif, and renew the pro- 
cess. When dry, it may be sprinkled with a little 
water. 

To Prevent a Felon. 

When a soreness is felt, immerse the finger in a 
basin of ashes and cold water, set it on the stove 
while cold, and stir it continually, without taking it 
out, until the lye is so hot it cannot be borne any 
longer. If the soreness is not gone in half an hour^ 
repeat it. 

To Prevent Flies Injuring Picture Frames. 

Boil three or four onions in one pint of water. 
Brush your frames over with the liquid. No fly will 
touch them, and it will not injure the frames. 

How TO Tell Good Eggs. 

If you desire to be certain that your eggs are good 
and fresh, put them in water; if the buts turn up, they 
are not fresh. This is an infallible rule to distinguish 
a good &^^ from a bad one. 

Linen Whitened. 

Cut a pound of fine white soap into a gallon of 
milk and hang it over the fire in the wash kettle. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 365 

When the soap is entirely melted, put in the linen, 
and boil half an hour; then take it out; have ready a 
lather of soap and warm water; wash the linen in it, 
and then rinse through two cold waters, with a very 
little blue at the last 

To Cure Diphtheria. 

Take a common tobacco pipe, place a live coal in 
the bowl, drop a little tar upon the coal, draw the 
smoke into the mouth, and discharge it through the 
nostrils. 

Cure for a Cough. 

A patient, who, for nearly two months, could not 
pass a night in quiet without large doses of lauda- 
num, has been cured of a most harassing cough by 
suet boiled in milk. 

To Keep and Prepare Lard. 

To a gallon of lard, before it is washed, put one 
ounce of sal soda. The soda makes it foam and boil 
over. No other water is required than that the soda 
is dissolved in. Lard put up in this way keeps for 
two years hard through the whole summer. When 
your lard is done, it will be as clear as spring water. 
Strain through a coarse cloth into your jars, and set 
to cool. 

Butterflies and Moths. 

All that is required for collecting these insects is 
the following: A net, killing bottle, some setting 
boards, a collecting box, a store box, and some pins. 
The best time for catching butterflies is on a hot 
sunny day during the middle of the day — from eleven, 
to three or four o'clock in the afternoon. The moths 



3G6 MISCELLANEOUS. 

are out in force in the evening, and may be captured 
by ''sugaring" for them. Boil together half a pint 
of beer, a quarter of a pound of sugar and the same of 
molasses, add half a gill of rum, and apply this mix- 
ture with a brush to the trunks of trees, making a 
streak two inches wide. This will attract the moths, 
and those desired may be captured and put in the 
killing bottle. Having killed the moth, fasten it in 
the collecting box with a pin stuck through its side, 
thus avoiding any injury to the back. 

Wasp Stings. 

The following will cure almost instantaneously a 
wasp or bee sting: Press a common hollow trunk 
key over the puncture until the pain ceases. In the 
case of a bee sting on the cheek, apply a hollow 
trunk key over the sting, and in less than one minute 
the sting will be forced upon the surface. The same 
principle applied to the bite of any poisonous animal, 
even that of a rabid dog, snakes or mosquito bites, 
would effect a cure by preventing the poison from 
entering the circulation. 

Home-made Water Filter. 

Place a wine cask on end, fit a faucet at the bottom 
and remove the head. In this bore holes all over it with 
a small bit; place four clean bricks on the bottom of 
the cask and on these rest the ' perforated top. On 
this perforated top put about four inches of charcoal 
broken into bits the size of peas, and over this a layer 
of clean sand six inches deep. Water passing through 
this layer of sand and that of charcoal under it will 
leave its impurities behind it, and run from the faucet 
clear and sparkling. Once in two or three months 
the filter should be renewed. 



miscellaneous. 367 

Cleansing Carpets. 

Where carpets cannot readily be taken up and thor- 
oughly shaken, they may be very much brightened 
and freshened by being wiped with a mop wrung from 
warm water. The water should be frequently 
changed. If the mopping precedes and follows 
through sweeping, but little dust will be raised in the 
room. With the aid of a mop-wringer this may be 
easily done, without wetting even the finger tips, and 
the mopping will be less tiresome than the sweeping. 
A little ox gall or ammonia in the water will brighten 
the color. If a carpet sweeper is used the carpet may 
be entirely cleansed without raising a particle of 
dust, though it is well to cover bric-a-brac while the 
work is going on. 

Night Sweats. 

A gentleman went to a celebrated physician and 
told him that his child was suffering from night 
sweats consequent on nervous exhaustion. " Rub 
him," was all the response he could get. So he rub- 
bed the child persistently every morning and night 
with his hands, and in a short time the trouble ceased. 
The same father sent his little daughter to the coun- 
try for the summer. While there she ran incessantly. 
Her friends perceived that she began to draw long 
breaths, and longer breaths, until she sighed almost 
continually. A physician being interrogated as to 
the cause of this sighing, simply replied: *' Runs too 
much." So the girl was kept more quiet, and soon 
the sighing ceased. These hints may be beneficial 

Milk Diet. 

Milk is called by some constipating food, and food 
likely to produce biliousness. But without just rea- 



368 MISCELLANEOUS. 

son. Every constituent of milk can be assimilated 
and there is no waste in it, so there is nothing left to 
cause any action on the bowels. If milk were taken 
into the stomach as slowly and were as perfectly 
mingled with saliva as is an equivalent amount of 
solid food, when slowly eaten and thoroughly masti- 
cated, the probabilities are that the liver would not be 
stimulated to send bile into the stomach, where it does 
not belong, to aid in digesting the milk. Milk 
should be sipped slowly and with pauses between, not 
gulped at a draught. Those who are troubled with 
headache after eating should drink milk very slowly 
or not at all. The acids of the stomach convert it 
promptly into curd, and everybody knows that curd, 
like cheese, is- a very hearty food. 

Cement. 

For a stove that has a crack in it buy silicate of 
potash or soluble glass, mix it with ashes, and apply 
to the crack. This cement will stick to red-hot iron 
and bricks without crumbling off, but will not bear 
moisture. If holes are to be stopped in hard-finished 
walls mix the silicate and whiting; if in holes in 
grates, mix with fire clay. 

Ink from Mahogany. 

Touch the stain with a feather dipped in a spoonful 
of water with six or eight drops of nitre mixed with 
it. As soon as the ink disappears wash the place 
with a cloth wrung from cold water, or a white spot 
will be left. Repeat if necessary. Ink stains maybe 
removed from other dark woods in this way. 

Chilblains. 
1. — One ounce of sulphureous acid, one ounce of 



MISCELLANEOUS. 369 

glycerine, and two ounces of distilled water; mix, 
and apply night and morning. 2. — Rub the feet with 
snow. 3. — Bathe in strong oak-leaf tea, or in liquor 
from the tan vats heated hot. 4.— Apply strong 
copperas water. 5. — Hold the foot, with the sock on, 
as near the fire as can be borne, withdrawing it when 
too hot, and returning it again to the fire for five or 
ten minutes. One or two successive applications will 
effect a cure. 6. — One part of muriatic acid to eight 
parts of water. Just wet the chilblains before the 
fire, if not broken; if they are, apply poultices and 
healing ointment. 

Disinfection. 

One of the most important methods of disinfection 
is the following: Into an iron kettle put some live 
coals, set the kettle in the room to be disinfected and 
lay stick sulphur on the coals. The doors and win- 
dows should be closed before the sulphur is lighted, 
and whatever will be likely to be bleached by the sul- 
phureous acid fumes should be removed. 

To Cure a Wen. 

Wash it with common salt dissolved in water every 
day, and it will be removed in a short time. Or make 
a strong brine of alum salt; simmer it over the fire. 
When thus prepared, wet a piece of cloth in it every 
day, and apply it constantly for one month, and the 
protuberance will disappear. 

Cure for Chills. 

One ounce each of cream of tartar, pulverized 
Peruvian bark and ground cloves. Mix well to- 
gether, and take a tablespoonful three times a day, 
half an hour before eating, in a wine-glass of sweet 
cider. It has never been known to fail. 



370 miscellaneous. 

For Sick Headache. 

Put the feet into hot mustard water, lay a cold wet 
cloth on the stomach wuth dry flannel over it, and 
swallow a few spoonfuls of lemon juice. 

Cure for Headache. 

Put a handful of salt into a quart of water, add one 
ounce of spirits of hartshorn and half an ouilce of 
camphorated spirits of wine. Put them quickly into 
a bottle, and cork tightly to prevent the escape of the 
spirits. Soak a piece of rag with the mixture, and 
apply it to the head; wet the rag afresh as soon as it 
gets heated. 

To Clean Brass. 

Rub the tarnished or rusted brass, by means of a 
cloth or sponge, wnth diluted acid, such as sulphuric, 
or even with strong vinegar. Afterward wash it with 
hot water, to remove the acid, and finish with dry 
whiting. 

Soap for Whitening the Hands. 

Take a wine-glassful of eau de cologne^ and another 
of lemon juice; then scrape two cakes of brown 
Windsor soap to a powder, and mix well in a mould. 

To Wash White Lace. 

The following recipe for washing white lace is 
generally found more successful than any other: 
Cover a glass bottle with white flannel, then wind the 
lace round it, tack it to the flannel on both sides, and 
cover the whole with a piece of flannel or linen, which 
sew firmly round it. Then steep the bottle overnight 
in an ewer, with soap and cold water. Next morn^ 
ing wash it with hot water and soap, the soap 



MISCELLANEOUS. 371 

being rubbed on the outer covering. Then steep it 
again for some hours in cold water, and afterwards 
dry it in the air or near the fire. Remove the outer 
covering, and the lace is ready, no ironing being re- 
quired. If the lace is very dirty, of course it must be 
washed a great deal. 

To Remove Mortar or Paint from Window Glass. 

Rub mortar spots with a stiff brush dipped in sharp, 
hot vinegar, and paint spots with camphene and sand. 

To Take off Starch or Rust from Sad Irons. 

Tie a piece of yellow beeswax in a rag, and when 
the iron is almost hot enough for use, rub it with the 
beeswax quickly, and then with a clean coarse cloth. 

To Purify a Sink or Drain. 

Dissolve half a pound of copperas in two gallons 
of water. Pour in half this liquor one day and the 
other half the next day. 

To Take Out Mildew. 

Get the dryest chloride of lime you can buy, and 
for strong fabrics, dissolve four tablespoonfuls of the 
lime in half a pint of water. Let the mildewed arti- 
cle lie in this solution fifteen minutes. Take it out, 
wring it gently, and put immediately into weak 
muriatic acid, one part acid and four parts soft water. 
For delicate fabrics, the solution of lime should be 
made much weaker, three or four times the quantity 
of water should be put on the lime. Let the article 
lie in it only fifteen minutes, and then put into the 
muriatic acid. 



372 miscellaneous. 

Tooth Powder. 

Two ounces of Peruvian bark, two ounces of 
myrrh, one ounce of chalk, one ounce of Armenian 
bole, and one ounce of orris root. 

To Clean Silk and Make it Like New. 

Put an old kid glove in a pint of cold water. Let 
it boil until the water is reduced to one-half the quan- 
tity. Sponge the silk with this water on the right 
side, and iron it on the wrong side. This will make 
old silks or ribbons look like new. 

To Drive Away Ants. 

The little red ants w^ill leave a place where sea sand 
is sprinkled, or where oyster shells are laid. Scat- 
ter sprigs of wormwood where black ants are trouble- 
some. 

To Extract Oil or Grease Spots from Carpets. 

If oil is spilled on a carpet, put on plenty of white 
flour, and do it as soon as possible, to prevent the oil 
spreading. If the oil is near a seam, but does not 
reach it, rip the seam, in order to stop it. Put flour 
on the floor under the oil spot. The next day brush 
up all the flour from the carpet and floor with a stiff 
brush, and repeat the putting on of fresh flour. It will 
not need it the third time. To take out grease spots 
rub them with a bit of white flannel dipped in spirits 
of turpentine. If they show again, repeat the pro- 
cess. It is well to put paper under the carpet, when 
grease spots are on the floor, as no scouring will re- 
move them entirely. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 373 

To Renovate Velvet. 

Wet a clean sponge in warm soap suds, squeeze it 
very dry in a cloth, and wipe the velvet with it. Then 
pass the velvet over the edge of a hot sad iron, turned 
down sideways — the wrong side of the velvet next to 
the iron. 

To Keep Steel Knives from Rusting. 

Have them rubbed bright, and perfectly dry; have 
a soft rag, and rub each blade with dry wood ashes. 
Wrap them in thick brown paper, and lay them in a 
dry closet. If taken care of in this way, they may be 
kept years free from rust. 

To Keep Ivory Knife Handles from Cracking. 

Never let the knife blades stand in hot water. The 
heat expands the steel that runs up into the handle, 
and cracks it. Of course the handles must never lie 
in water. 

To Take Out Fruit Stains. 

Tie up cream of tartar in the spotted places, and 
put the garment into cold water and boil it. If the 
stains are much spread, stir cream of tartar in the 
water. If still visible, boil the garment in a mixture 
of super carbonate of soda, a tablespponful to a pail 
of water. 

To Purify a Well. 

When the well is cleaned out, if any offensive sub- 
stance is found in it, have the bottom sprinkled with 
two or three quarts of quicklime. 



374 MISCELLANEOUS. 

To Destroy Grass in Gravel Walks. 

Scatter the cheapest coarse salt along the edges, 
and wherever the grass is springing up. Even the 
Canada thistle can be destroyed by cutting the stalks 
close to the ground and putting salt on them. 

To Make Grass Thrifty. 

Spread wood ashes on it just before a rain. If you 
cultivate raspberries and blackberries, have a lot of 
sawdust and put round them once a year. It wil im- 
prove them a great deal. 

Black Paper for Drawing Patterns. 

Mix and smooth lampblack and sweet oil; with a 
bit of flannel cover a sheet or two of large writing 
paper with this mixture; then dab the paper dry with 
a bit of fine linen, and keep it by for using in the fol- 
lowing manner: Put the black side on another sheet 
of paper, and fasten the corners together with small 
pins. Lay on the back jpf the black paper the pattern 
to be drawn, and go over it with the point of a steel 
pencil; the black paper will then leave the impression 
of the pattern on the under sheet, on which you must 
draw it with ink. If you draw patterns on cloth or 
muslin, do it with a pen dipped in a bit of stone blue, 
a bit of sugar, and a little water, mixed smooth in a 
teacup, in which it will be always ready for use, if 
fresh wet to a due consistence as wanted. 

To Extract Oil from Boards or Stone. 

Make a strong ley of pearl ashes and soft water, and 
add as much unslacked lime as it will take up; stir it 
together, and then let it settle a few minutes; bottle 
it, and stop close; have ready some water to lower it 



MISCELLANEOUS. 375 

as used, and scour the part with it. If the liquor 
should lay long on the boards, it will draw out ihe 
color of them; therefore, do it with care and expedi- 
tion. * * 

To Take Stains from Marble. 
Mix unslacked lime in finest powder, with the 
strongest soap ley, pretty thick, and instantly, with a 
painters' brush, lay it on the whole of the marble. In 
two months' time wash it off perfectly clean; then 
have ready a fine thick lather of soft soap, boiled in 
soft water; dip a brush in it, and scour the marble 
with powder, not as common cleaning. This will, by 
very hard rubbing, give a beautiful polish. Clear off 
the soap, and finish with a smooth hard brush until 
the end be effected. 

Hard Soap. 

Four pounds of grease, three pounds of quicklime, 
and six pounds of sal soda. Put the lime and soda 
together in four gallons of hot water; let it stand 
over night, and then add the grease and boil four 



hours. 



To Color Seal Brown. 
One pound of cutch, half a pound of bichromate 
potash to four pounds of goods. Put potash in brass 
kettle and cutch in iron kettle. 

To Take Iron Stains from Marble. 
Mix an equal quantity of fresh spirits of vitriol and 
lemon juice in a bottle, shake well. Wet the spots, 
and in a few minutes rub with soft linen until they 
disappear. 



376 miscellaneous. 

Hair Tonic. 

Two ounces of tincture of cantharades, half a pint 
of Jamaica rum and orj^e pint of rain water. 

Paste for Chapped Hands. 

Mix a quarter of a pound of unsalted hog's lard, 
which has been washed in water, and then in rose 
water, with the yolks of two new-laid eggs, and a 
large spoonful of honey. Add as much fine oatmeal 
or almond paste as will work into a paste. This will 
keep the hands smooth by its constant use. 

Fine Blacking for Shoes. 

Take four ounces of ivory black, three ounces of 
the coarsest sugar, a tablespoonful of sweet oil, and a 
pint of small beer; mix them gradually cold. 

To Cement Broken China. 

Beat lime into the most impalpable powder, sift it 
through fine muslin; then tie some into a thin mus- 
lin; put on the edge of the broken china some white 
of an egg, then dust some lime quickly on the same 
and unite then exactly. 

Kitchen Pepper. 

Mix together one ounce of the finest powdered gin- 
ger, half an ounce each of cinnamon, black pepper, nut- 
meg and Jamaica pepper, ten cloves and six ounces of 
salt. Keep it in a bottle. It is an agreeable addition 
to any brown sauces or soups. 

To Make Essence of Anchovies. 

Take two dozen anchovies, chop them, without the 
bone, but with some of their own liquor strained; add 



MISCELLANEOUS. 377 

them to sixteen large spoonfuls of water; boil gently 
until dissolved, which will be in a few minutes; when 
cold, strain and bottle. The quicker the process, the 
finer will be the color. 

To Clarify Sugar for Sweetmeats. 

Break as much as required in large lumps, and put 
a pound to half a pint of water, in a bowl, and it will 
dissolve better than when broken small. Set it over 
the fire, with the well-whipped white of an egg; let it 
boil up, and, when ready to run over, pour a little 
cold water in to give it a check; but when it rises a 
second time, take it off the fire, and set it by in a pan 
for a quarter of an hour, during which the foulness 
will sink to the bottom, and leave a black scum on 
the top, which take off gently with a skimmer, and 
pour the syrup into a vessel very quickly from the 
sediment. 

To Keep Lemon Juice. 

Buy the fruit when cheap and keep it in a cool 
place two or three days; if too unripe to squeeze 
readily, cut the peel off from some and roll them un- 
der your hand to make them chop with the juice more 
readily; others you may have unpared for grating, 
when the pulp shall be taken out and dried. Squeeze 
the juice into a china basin; then strain it through 
some muslin which will not permit the least pulp to 
pass. Fill half and quarter-ounce phials — which 
should be perfectly dry — with the juice -so near the 
top as only to admit half a spoonful of sweet oil 
into each, or a little more if for larger bottles. Cork 
tight, and set them upright in .a cool place. When 
you wish to use the juice, wind some clean cottorv 
around a skewer, and you can easily dip the oil from 
the juice, which will be as fine as when first bottled. 



378 MISCELLANEOUS. 

To Pot Mushrooms. 

Choose large buttons, or such wliose inside is not 
yet the least brown; peel and wipe out the lur of the 
larger ones; and to every two quarts put half a 
drachm of pounded mace, two drachms of white pep- 
per, and six or eight cloves in powder; set them over 
the fire; shake and let the liquor dry up into them. 
Then put to them two ounces of butter, and stew 
them in it until they are fit for eating; pour the but- 
ter from them, and let them become cold. Pack them 
close into a pot, making the surface as even as possi- 
ble; add some lukewarm butter, and lay a bit of white 
paper over them, and pour clarified suet upon it to 
exclude the air. 

Colorings for Jellies, Ices or Cakes. 

For a beautiful red, boil fifteen grains of cochineal 
in fine powder, with a drachm and a half of cream of 
tartar, in half a pint of water, very slowly, half an 
hour. Add in boiling a bit of alum the size of a pea. 
Or use beet root sliced and some liquor poured over. 
For white, use almonds finely powdered, with a little 
water; or use cream. For yellow, the yolks of eggs, 
or a bit of saffron, steeped in liquor and squeezed. 
For green, pound spinach leaves or beet leaves, ex- 
press the juice, and boil in a saucepan in a teacupful 
of water to take ofif the rawness. 

Extract of Spinach. 

Wash and pound in a mortar a sufficient quantity 
of spinach for a small dish, until it assumes a pulpy 
appearance; turn it out upon a strong kitchen rub- 
ber, the opposite ends of which are to be gathered up 
and held in the left hand by two persons, w^ho must 
take care to fold the extremity of the cloth firmly 



MISCELLANEOUS. 8Y9 

round the handle of a wooden spoon, which will give 
them a strong purchase, acting as a windlass, and will 
enable them to wring the cloth so tightly as to ex- 
press all the moisture of the spinach. To receive this 
extract, a stew pan should be placed ready; it should 
be held over the fire until it becomes coagulated, and 
must be put upon a hair sieve to drain off any remain- 
ing watery particles. Work the spinach green 
through the sieve with a spoon, and this will form the 
extract. 

For Filtering Orange or Lemon Juice for Jellies. 

Wash several sheets of w^hite blotting paper (of the 
best quality) in cold water; then boil them in two 
quarts of water for about twenty minutes, strain the 
water from the paper, and pound it in a mortar until 
reduced to a fine pulp; mix this with a spoonful of 
washed white sand; then add both to the juice in- 
tended to be filtered, and throw the whole into a clean 
beaver jelly bag. Pass the juice through the filtering 
bag until it drops as bright as spring water. 



BILLS OF FARE. 



BREAKFAST, NO. 1. 



Oatmeal and Cream. 

Lamb Chops. Broiled Steak, 

Stewed Potatoes. Fried Potatoes. 

Rolls. - Corn Cakes. 

Tea. Coffee. 



BREAKFAST, NO. 2. 



Fruit. 

Hominy and Milk. 

Porterhouse Steak. Broiled Ham. 

Omelets, with Mushrooms. 

Stewed Potatoes. 

Rolls. Graham Gems. 

Tea. Coffee. Chocolate. 



382 BILLS OF FARE. 

BREAKFAST, NO. 3. 



. Fruit. 

Oatmeal and Cream. 

Mutton Chops. Cold Tongue. 

Spanish Mackerel. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. Sliced Tomatoes. 

Griddle Cakes. 

Graham Gems. Toast. 

Tea. Coffee. 



BREAKFAST, NO. 4. 



Canteloupe Mellons. 

Broiled Spanish Mackerel. Broiled Chicken. 

New Stewed Potatoes. 

Fancy Baked'Potatoes. 

Rice Griddle Cakes. Waffles. 

Tea. Coffee. Chocolate. 



BILLS OF FARE. 

DINNER, NO. 1. 



383 



Tomato Soup. 
Baked Blue Fish, Oyster Sauce. 

Roast Beef. Roast Lamb. Boiled Ham. 

Mashed Potatoes. Green Peas. 

Stewed or Sliced Tomatoes. String Beans. 

Rice Pudding. 
Lemon Meringe Pie. Berry Pie. 

Chocolate Cream. 

Fruits. Nuts. 

Coffee. Tea. 



DINNER, NO. 2. 



English White Soup. 

Chow Chow. Tomato Catsup. Lettuce. 

Soles, a la Portugese. Riced Potatoes. 

Beef, a la Mode. 

Spare Rib of Pork. 



Mashed Potatoes. 



Roast Chicken. 
Squash. Asparagus. 



Fig Pudding, Wine Sauce. 

Cream Pie. Orange Tartlets. Assorted Cake. 

Cream, a la Romaine. 

Oranges. Nuts. Raisins. 

Tea. Coffee. Chocolate. 



384 BILLS OF FARE. 

DINNER, NO. 3. 



Ox Tail Soup. 

Mushroom Catsup. Sweet Pickles. 

Spiced Tomatoes. 

Baked Turbot. Fancy Baked Potatoes. 

Veal, a la Daube. 
Sweet Breads. Pigeon Pie. 

Stewed Asparagus. Stewed Green Peas. 

Riced Potatoes. Onion Ormoloo. 

Apple Pudding, a la Cremone, Sweet Sauce. 

Apple Pie. Apricot Jelly. Orange Pie. 

Pistachio Cream. 

Sponge Cake. 
Tea. Coffee. 



SUPPER, NO. 1, 



Deviled Turkey. Pickled Oysters. 

Preserved Pine Apples. 

Rusks. Hot Biscuit and Butter. 

Cheese Cakes. 

Watermelon Cake. White Fruit Cake. 

Tea. Coffee. 



BILLS OF FARE. 385 

SUPPER, NO. 2. 



Potted Lobster. Cold Lamb. 

Sardines. 

Strawberries and Cream. Brandied Peaches. 

Bread and Butter. Cottage Cheese. 

Angels' Food. 
Pound Cake. Banana Cake. 

Tea. Coffee. 



SUPPER, NO. 3. 



OysTer Salad. Chicken Croquettes. 

Preserved Pears. Brandied Apricots. 

Cream Biscuits. Crackers. 

Pickled Crab Apples. Pickled French Beans. 

Sage Cheese. 

Geneva Cake. Black Fruit Cake. Lady Fingers. 

Tea. Coffee. 



IIsTIDEX. 



Soups. 

PAGE. 

American Lobster 24 

Bean '^^ 

Beef. 22 

Brown Stock lo 

Chicken Broth 23 

Clam 25 

Coloring for Soups and 

Gravies 15 

Common 22 

Dried Pea 20 

Eel 24 

English Gravy 19 

English Lobster 24 

English Mock Turtle 17 

English White 17 

French Stewed Oysters 2o 

French Vegetable 20 

Green Pea. 21 

Grouse 18 

Ham or Pea 21 

Macaroni 18 

Mock Stewed Oysters 23 

Noodles 17 

Ox Tail 20 

Oyster Stew, No. 1 2o 

Oyster Stew, No. 2 25 

Partridge 18 

Plain White 18 

Portable 1<^ 

Scotch Barley Broth 19 

Scotch Mutton Broth 20 

Soup, a la Sap. 

Soup Powder • . • ■ 

Split Pea -^-' 

Tomato 16 

Tomato. . . . .' 19 



26 



Fisli. 

PAGE. 

Brook Trout, Fried 39 

Codfish Cakes 37 

Codfish, Scrambled 37 

Eels, collared 37 

Eels, fried 37 

Pish Cake 38 

Fish Chowder 38 

Flounders 35 

Fresh Fish, broiled 39 

Herrings, broiled • 36 

Herrings, fried 36 

Observations on Dressing. . 29 

Pike, to dress 36 

Plaice, to dress 36 

Red Mullet 35, 

Salmon, collared 33 

Salmon, dried 33 

Salmon, pickled 33 

Salmon, to boil. 32 

Salmon, to broil 32 

Salmon, to pot 33 

Salt Cod or Ling, to dress. . 34 

Salt Fish, to dress 34 

Smeltsf to Fry 37 

Soles 34 

Soles, a la Portuguese 34 

Soles, stuffing for 35 

Sturgeon, to dress • 32 

To Vr\ 30 

To Select 29 

Trout, cream baked 39 

Turbot 31 

Turbot, baked 31 

Turbot, boiled 31 



388 



INDEX. 



Sliell-Fisli. 

PAGE. 

Clam Chowder, No. 1 41 

Clam Chowder, No. 2 42 

Lobster, buttered 46 

Lobster Patties 46 

Lobster Pudding 45 

Lobsters, Rissoles of 46 

Lobsters, to pot 46 

Oysters, baked in shell 45 

Oysters, fancy roast 45 

Oysters, fried. No. 1 42 

Oysters, fried, No. 2 42 

Oyster Fritters 45 

Oyster Loaf. 44 

Oyster Macaroni 45 

Oyster Patties 43 

Oyster Pie 43 

Oysters, roasted 44 

Oysters, scalloped 44 

Oysters, steamed 43 

Oyster Toast 44 

Oysters, to pickle 42 



I^eats. 

Beefsteak 51 

Beefsteaks, Italian 51 

Beefsteaks and Oyster Sauce 51 
Beefsteaks, Staffordshire. ... 52 

Beef, a la mode 52 

Beef Heart 52 

Beef Palates 52 

Beef Palates, to pickle 52 

Beef, to pot 53 

Beef, minced 54 

Beef, to dress the inside of a 

sirloin of. 54 

Beef, to select 49 

Beef, to salt 74 

Beef Savory. . 55 

Beef, spiced 50 

Calf's Head, to dress ttke 

Turtle •. . . . 57 

Calf's Head, to collar 61 

Calf's Liver 62 

China Chilo 66 

Collops, to dress quick 60 

Cutlets 60 

Cutlets Maintenon. . . '. 59 

Forcemeat, ingredients of.. . 75 

Ham Croquets 72 

Ham and Eggs, fried 71 



Meats — Continued. 

PAGE. 

Ham, how to choose a 70 

Ham, roast 72 

Ham, toast 72 

Hams, to cure 69 

Harrico 64 

Head Cheese 70 

Lamb Cutlets, with spinach . 66 

Lamb, fore quarter of. ^% 

Lamb's head and hinge 67 

Lamb, leg of 66 

Lamb's sweet-breads 67 

Meat, to curry 55 

Mutton, a la venison 63 

Mutton, breast of. 64 

Mutton Chops 65 

Mutton Cutlets 65 

Mutton, fillet of glazed 64 

Mutton,hashed without herbs 62 
Mutton or Lamb Steaks and 

Cucumbt^rs. ... 65 

Mutton Kidneys 62 

Mutton Kidneys.. 63 

Mutton, roast saddle of 64 

Mutton Steaks, with beans.. 63 

Mutton, to collar a breast of 65 

Ox Cheek, to dress 54 

Pettitoes 68 

Pig's Feet and Ears Soused. 69 

Pig, to roast a suckling 68 

Pork, boiled leg of 68 

Pork, roast leg of 67 

Pork Steaks 68 

Pork, to select 67 

Pork and Beans 70 

Practical Hints 49 

Rice Hash 73 

Sausage 74 

Sausage, mutton 73 

Sausage, pork 73 

Sausage, veal 73 

Sausage, to eat cold 74 

Spare-ribs ^\^ 

Sweet-breads, a la Daube. . . 62 

Tongues, cold 55 

Tripe 54 

Tripe, soused 55 

Veal, breast of 57 

Veal, chump of, a la Daube. 58 

Veal Collops 60 

Veal, dish made from roasted 61 

Veal, fricandeau of 59 



INDEX. 



391 



Vegetables — Continued. 

PAGE. 

Potatoes, Lyonaise, No. 3. . 128 

Potatoes, mashed 127 

Potatoes, riced 128 

Potatoes, Saratoga 127 

Potatoes, stewed 126 

Potatoes, to boil 125 

Salsify, or Oyster Plant 140 

Sea Kale 141 

Shallots 130 

Spinach 136 

Squash, Summer 131 

Squash, Winter 132 

Succotash 134 

Tomatoes, baked 140 

Tomatoes, fried 140 

Tomatoes, scalloped 140 

Tomatoes, stewed 140 

To Can Corn 142 

Turnips, with sauce 129 

Vegetables, to boil 125 

Picltles. 

Apples 149 

Blackberries 157 

Butternuts 150 

Cauliflower 148 

Celery Chowder 149 

Cherries 157 

Chili Sauce 152 

Chow Chow .' 145 

Crab Apples 147 

Cucumbers 145 

Cucumbers, to Salt 146 

Cucumbers, Sliced Onions. 146 

French 150 

French Beans 151 

Gooseberry 158 

Grape Catsup 153 

India 155 

Lemon 151 

Mixed 145 

Mushroom Catsup, No. 1.. 154 

Mushroom Catsup, No. 2. . 154 

Nasturtiums 152 

Nasturtiums, for capers. . . . 158 

Onions 146 

Orka and Tomato 151 

Oyster 150 

Peaches, No. 1 156 

Peaches, No." 2 156 



Pick les — Continued. 

PAGE. 

Pears 156 

Peppers 150 

Piccollily 149 

Plums 156 

Raspberry Vinegar 157 

Red Cabbage 147 

Ripe Cucumber 146 

Shallot. Vinegar 157 

Sugar Vinegar. . 157 

Sweet 153 

Tomato 148 

Tomatoes, spiced 148 

I Tomato Catsup, No. 1 153 

Tomato Ca sup, No. 2 153 

Tomato Sauce for Meats.. . 147 

Virginia Damson 147 

Walnuts 152 

Walnut Catsup 154 

Wine Vinegar 158 

Yeast. 

Augusta's 162 

Hop 161 

Potato, No. 1 161 

Potato, No. 2 161 

Yeast Cakes 162 

Bread and Biscuits. 

BREAD. 

Boston Brown 167 

Corn 166 

German 166 

Good Brown 167 

Graham 166 

Hoyleton 165 

Margaret's Wheat 163 

Mississippi Corn 166 

Quick 165 

Unfermented 165 

Wheat, No. 1 164 

Wheat, ^o. 2 164 

Wheat and Indian 164 

Yeast 163 

BISCUITS. 

Biscuits 166 

Corn 166 

Crackers 168 

Cream 166 

German 166 

Graham 168 



392 



INDEX. 



Breakfast and Xea 
Cakes. 

PAGE. 

Buns 181 

Cakes, Boston Corn 178 

Cakes, Buckwheat 175 

Cakes, Connecticut Corn. . 177 

Cakes, Corn 178 

Cakes, Dixie Corn 178 

Cakes, Georgia Indian 179 

Cakes, Johnny 177 

Cakes, Little Milk 177 

Cakes, Round Lake Corn.. 178 

Cakes, Rice 175 

Cakes, Rye 176 

Cakes, Rye and Indian 

Johnny 179 

Cakes, Rye Drop 176 

Cakes, Susan's Rye Drop. . 175 

Cheese, stewed 186 

Cheese, roasted 186 

Cheese Cakes 186 

Cheese Omelette 187 

Corn Omelette 183 

Dumplings, Light Dough. . 182 

Flapjacks 174 

Fritters 1«3 

Fritters, Apple 183 

Fritters, Corn 184 

Fritters, Potato 183 

Fritters, Spanish 183 

Gems, Breakfast 176 

Gems, Graham 176 

Gems, Kentucky corn meal 178 

Muffins, No. 1 171 

Muffins, No. 2 171 

Muffins, Breakfast 172 

Muffins, French 172 

Muffins, Graham 172 

Muffins, Hominy 173 

Muffins, Mrs. D's 173 

Muffins, Mrs. H's 172 

Muffins, Rice 173 

Muffins, Rye and Indian. . . 171 

Muffins, Saratoga Graham. 172 

Muffins, Water 172 

Mush, Fried 177 

Oatmeal 187 

Pancakes, bread, with water 174 
Pancakes, Corn, to eat with 

meat 174 

Pancakes, Ground Rice 174 

Pancakes, New England . . . 173 



Breakfast and Tea Cakes — 

PAGE. 

Pancakes, Rice 175 

Pancakes, Soda 174 

PanDoddlings 176 

Pop Overs 187 

Puffs, Indian Meal.. . r: . . . . 179 

Rolls, Brentford 180 

Rolls, Cmcinnati 180 

Rolls, Delmonico 179 

Rolls, Dutch 181 

Rolls, Flannel 180 

Rolls, P>ench 180 

Rolls, Parker House 179 

Rolls, Superb 180 

Rolls, Unique 181 

Rusks 181 

Rusks, Barrington 181 

Sally Lunn, No. 1 175 

Sally Lunn, No. 2 175 

Toast 184 

Toast, Anchovy 186 

Toast, broiled and deviled. 185 

Toast, Cheese 185 

Toast, French 185 

Toast, Milk 184 

Toast, Soft 185 

Toast, Welsh Rare-bit on. . 175 

Waffles, Breakfast 182 

Waffles, Mrs. Bleeker's. ... 182 

Wafiles, Rice 182 

Cake. 

Cake, Angel's Food 211 

Cake, Banana 206 

Cake, Bernard 209 

Cake, Bread 192 

Cake, Burwick 193 

Cake, Butternut 203 

Cake, Chocolate, No. 1. . . . 208 

Cake, Chocolate, No. 2. . . . 208 

Cake, Chocolate, No. 3. . . . 208 

Cake, Christmas 203 

Cake, Cocoanut, No. 1 198 

Cake, Cocoanut, No. 2 199 

Cake, Cocoanut, No. 3 199 

Cake, Coffee, No. 1 201 

Cake, Coffee, No. 2 202 

Cake, Cream, No. 1 193 

Cake, Cream, No. 2 194 

Cake, Cream, No. 3 194 

Cake, Cream, No. 4 194 

Cake, Cup 197 



INDEX. 



389 



Meats — Continued. 

PAGE. 

Veal, hashed 59 

Veal Olives 60 

Veal, ragout of cold 58 

Veal, roast fillet of 56 

Veal, shoulder of 56 

Yeal Sweet-breads 56 

Veal, to select 56 

Veal, to collar a breast of. . . 57 

Venison, breast of 51 

Venison, stewed shoulder of 50 
Venison, roast 50 

Poultry and Oame. 

Blanching- 79 

Braising 79 

Chicken, a la Mode 84 

Chicken and Cream 83 

Chicken Croquettes 84 

Chicken, fricassee of. 87 

Chicken Pot Pie 85 

Chicken Short Cake 86 

Chicken, to braise 87 

Chicken, to pull 88 

Ducks, boiled 90 

Ducks, Goose or Sucking 

Pig, dressing for 81 

Ducks, roasted 90 

Fowls, to force 80 

Fowls, to boil 82 

Fowls, to stew 82 

Fowls, to roast. 84 

Glazing, without braising. . . 80 

Grouse 91 

Meat, Fowls, &c., to card ... 80 

Pigeon, broiled 90 

Pigeon Pie 89 

Pigeon, roasted 89 

Pigeon, stewed 89 

Poultry, roast 85 

Quail, broiled 88 

Quail Pie 88 

Rabbit, baked 91 

Rabbit, fricasseed 91 

Rabbit, to pot 92 

Spring Chicken, baked 83 

Spring Chicken, broiled 83 

Snipe, roasted 90 

Turkey, Baltimore 82 

Turkey, boiled. No. 1 81 

Turkey, boilfed, No. 2 81 



Poultry and Gam^- Continued 

PAGE. 

Turkey, deviled 82 

Turkey or Chicken, dress- 
ing for 80 

Wild Fowls, to roast 87 

Wild Duck, Teal, &c 88 

Sauces and Dressing:® 
for Meats and Fisli. 

Anchovy Sauce, No. 1 96 

Anchovy Sauce, No. 2 96 

Apple Sauce for Pork 103 

Bechamel or White Gravy. 193 
Benton Sauce, for hot or 

cold roast beef 104 

Boiled Chicken Sauce 98 

Bread Sauce for Fowl or 

Fish 98 

Caper Sauce for Mutton. . . 99 

Celery Sauce 97 

Cheap Gravy 103 

Chutnev 97 

Curry Balls 104 

Curry Powder 97 

CuUis, or Brown Gravy. . . . 102 

Drawn Butter Sauce. 96 

Dressing for Sandwiches. . 104 

Gibert Gravy 101 

Gravy 95 

Gravy, that will keep a 

v.eek, to dress 95 

Gravy, clear 95 

Horseradish Sauce 99 

Lemon White Sauce for 

Boiled Fowls 101 

Lobster Sauce 98 

Mayonnaise Dressing 103 

Mint Sauce for Lamb 99 

Mushroom Sauce 101 

Onion Sauce 97 

Oyster Sauce 100 

Oyster Sauce for turkeys,&c 100 

Shallot 97 

Tomato Sauce 99 

Trout in White Sauce 100 

Trout in Green Sauce 100 

Veal Gravy 102 

Vinaigrette, for cold fowl or 

meat 104 

Wild Fowl Sauce 101 

Wild Fowl Sauce 102 

Worcestershire Sauce 96 



390 



INDEX. 



Salads. 

PAGE. 

Beef Ill 

Cabbage, No. 1 108 

Cabbage, No. 2 109 

Cabbage or Celery 108 

Chicken, No. 1 107 

Chicken, No. 2 108 

Cream Cabbage 109 

Cold Slaw 109 

Dressing for Cabbage 109 

French Ill 

Ham 110 

Lobster, No. 1 110 

Lobster, No. 2 110 

Oyster 112 

Potato 109 

Tomato and Onion Ill 

Watercress 112 



Eggs. 

Boiled 115 

Dumplings 118 

Eggs, a la mode 120 

Egg Sauce 117 

Eggs and Sausages 117 

French Omelet 119 

Ham Omelet , 120 

Omelet, No. 1 118 

Omelet, No. 2 118 

Omelet, No. 3 118 

Omelet, au Nature! 119 

Pickled 117 

Poached 116 

Puff Omelet 118 

Rolled 117 

Scrambled 116 

Smoked Beef and Eggs .... 1 20 

Stuffed 117 

To Keep Eggs 120 



Rare-bitS) Clieese, 
Cakes, Etc. 

Cheese Cakes 124 

Cheese Cakes, lemon 124 

Roasted Cheese 123 

Veal Cheese 1 24 

Welsh Rare-bit, No. 1 123 

Welsh Rare-bit, No. 2 123 



Vegetables. 

PAGE. 

Artichoke Bottoms 139 

Artichokes, how to dress. . 139 

Asparagus, stewed 136 

Asparagus on Toast 136 

Asparagus Omelet 136 

Beans, French 141 

Beans, Lima 141 

Cabbage, stewed, No. 1 130 

Cabbage, stewed. No. 2.. . . 130 

Cabbage, ladies 131 

Cabbage, stuffed 131 

Cale Cannon 129 

Carrots, boiled 138 

Carrots, stewed 138 

Cauliflower, No. 1 137 

Cauliflower, No. 2 137 

Cauliflower, fried 137 

Cauliflower in white sauce. 137 

Celery, stewed 138 

Cucuml)ers, to stew. .... 139 

Egg Broccoli 135 

Egg Plant 134 

Egg Plant, fricasseed 135 

Egg Plant, fried 135 

Green Peas 133 

Green Peas, to boil 133 

Green Peas, to stew 133 

Green Corn 142 

Green Corn Stewed 142 

Green Corn Fritters 142 

Hot Slaw 131 

Macaroni, how to dress and 

boil 139 

Old Peas, to stew 134 

Onions, boiled 129 

Onion Ormoloo 130 

Onions, stewed 129 

Oysters, artificial 141 

Parsle}', to crisp 133' 

Parsnips, boiled 132 

Parsnips, fried 132 

Parsnips, fricassee of 132 

Parsnips, mashed 132 

Potatoes, broiled 127 

Potato Cakes 1 28 

Potato Croquette, baked.. . 128 

Potatoes, fancy 126 

Potatoes, fried 126 

Potatoes, hashed 126 

Potatoes, Lyonaise, No. 1. . 127 
Potatoes, Lyonaise, No. 2. . 128 



INDEX. 



393 



Cake — Continued. 

PAGE. 

Cake, Delicate, No. 1 200 

Cake, Delicate, No. 2 200 

Cake, Delicate. No. 3 200 

Cake, Fancy 195 

Cake, Feather 203 

Cake, Fool 193 

Cake, French 193 

Cake, Fruit, No. 1 205 

Cake, Fruit, No. 2 205 

Cake, Geneva 207 

Cake, Gold, No. 1 202 

Cake, Gold, No. 2 202 

Cake, Graham 192 

Cake, Hickory Nut 202 

Cake, Jelly 209 

Cake. Jelly Cocoanut 199 

Cake, Ladies' 196 

Cake, Layer 210 

Cake, Lemon, No. 1 203 

Cake, Lemon, No. 2 203 

Cake, Lemon Layer 204 

Cake, Marble, No. 1 211 

Cake, iMarble, No. 2 211 

Cake, Midnight 213 

Cake, Minnehaha 198 

Cake, Mountain 198 

Cake, Mrs. Burnham's Fig. 210 

Cake, Nut 202 

Cake, Preserved Ginger. . . 191 

Cake, Pine-apple 196 

Cake, Pink Marble 212 

Cake, Pound 207 

Cake, Pork 209 

Cake, Puff 213 

Cake, Queen 212 

Cake, Roll Jelly 219 

Cake, Roll Sponge 210 

Cake, Romeo and Juliet. . . 208 

Cake, Round 196 

Cake, Seed 194 

Cake, Shrewsbury 209 

Cake, Silver, No. 1 210 

Cake, Silver, No. 2 210 

Cake, Spice 214 

Cake, Sponge, No. 1 200 

Cake, Sponge, No. 2 200 

Cake, Sponge, No. 3 200 

Cake, Soda, No. 1 193 

Cake, Soda, No. 2 193 

Cake, Tea 199 

Cake, VVaterrhelon 205 



Cake — Continued. 

PAGE. 

Cake, Washington 210 

Cake, Washington and Do- 
mestic 194 

Cake, Wedding, No. 1 206 

Cake, Wedding, No. 2 206 

Cake, White 213 

Cake, White Citron 204 

Cake, White Fruit, No. 1 . . 204 
Cake, White Fruit, No. 2. . 204 
Cake, White Mountain. . . . 198 

Cake, White Sponge 201 

Cake, Wilson's Ginger 192 

Cookies, Ginger 191 

Cookies, Graham Ginger. . 191 

Cookies. Molasses 190 

Cookies, Sugar, No. 1 191 

Cookies, Sugar, No. 2 191 

Cream Puffs 212 

Crullers 213 

Doughnuts, No. 1 214 

Doughnuts, No. 2 214 

Dominoes 206 

Drops, Cocoanut 199 

Drops, Sponge 201 

Fried Cakes, No. 1 214 

Fried Cakes, No. 2 214 

Frosting, No. 1 214 

Frosting, No. 2 214 

Frosting, No. 3 215 

Frosting, No. 4 215 

Gateaux Madeleines 207 

Ginger Bread, No. 1 192 

Ginger Bread, No. 2 192 

Ginger Snaps 190 

Icing for Cake. . 215 

Jumbles 202 

Jumbles, No. 1 195 

Jumbles, No. 2 195 

Kisses, No. 1 196 

Kisses, No. 2 197 

Kisses, No. 3 197 

Kisses. No. 4 197 

Lady Fingers 206 

Macaroons, Almond, No. 1 . 195 
Macaroons, Almond, No. 2. 196 

Macaroons, Walnut 195 

Noodles 195 

Puff Overs 213 

Weights and Measures. . . . 190 
Whip Churn for Creams. . . 215 



•Sd4 



INDEX. 



Pastry and 9Ieat Pies. 

PAGE. 

Apple Custard 229 

Banana 228 

Beefsteak 23() 

Beefsteak and Oyster 236 

Bread 230 

Cold Veal or Chicken 237 

Cocoanut, No. 1 227 

Cocoanut, No. 2 228 

Cream, Dedham 221 

Cream, Lemon. 222 

Cream, No. 1 222 

Cream, No. 2 222 

Cream, No. 3 223 

Custard 228 

Crust for Venison Pastry. . 236 

Delicate 229 

Gibiet 235 

Lemon, No. 1 224 

Lemon, No. 2 224 

Lemon, No. 3 225 

Lemon, No. 4 225 

Lenion Custard 225 

Lemon Fruit 225 

Lemon Tart 230 

Marlboro 224 

Meat 233 

Mock Mince, No. 1 226 

Mock Mince, No. 2 227 

Mock Mince, No. 3 227 

Mince Meat, No. 1 226 

Mince Meat, No. 2 226 

Orange 230 

Orange, No. 1 227 

Orange, No. 2 227 

Orange Tartlets or Puffs. . . 229 

Pastry, Custard or Cream. . 233 

Patties, Good Mince for. .. 235 
Patties, Resembling Mince 

Pies 234 

Patties, Sweet 235 

Patties, Turkey 234 

Patties, Veal 234 

Pie Crust, New England. . . 220 

Pie Crust, No. 1 . . 221 

Pie Crust, No. 2 221 

Pie Paste, Common 221 

Pie Paste, French 221 

Pine-apple 228 

Puff Paste 220 

Puff Paste (less rich) 220 

Puff Paste, Francatelli 231 



Pastry and Meat Pies — 

PAGE. 

Pumpkin 223 

Rabbit 235 

Raspberry Tarts with cream 230 

Rhubarb 223 

Squash 224 

Squash (Eggless) 224 

Tomato '. 229 

Veal 236 

Pudding^s. 

Almond 257 

Apple 251 

Apple, a la Cremone 250 

Apple, Baked 251 

Apple, Snow 243 

Arrow Root 244 

Baked Dumplings 248 

Baked Sponge 241 

Baked Indian 243 

Baked Vermicelli 251 

Batter 251 

Batter 243 

Beefsteak 258 

Beefsteak, baked 258 

Bird's Nest 248 

Blue Berry. :. 242 

Boiled Custard 255 

Brown Bread 252 

Cabinet 255 

Cocoanut 241 

Cocoanut Bread 241 

Cottage 245 

Corn Meal 244 

Crumb 248 

Delicate 252 

Delmonico 246 

Dorchester Corn 255 

Fig, No. 1 244 

Fig, No. 2 245 

Flour Suet 241 

Green Corn 240 

Green Bean 257 

Light or German 257 

Little Bread 250 

Macaroni 252 

Maizena 255 

xMarblehead Apple 256 

Mutton 258 

Norfolk Dumplings 256 

Old-fashioned Indian 241 

Orange 243 



INDEX. 



395 



Puddings— Continued. 

PAGE. 

Orange 258 

Pea, for Beef or Pork 256 

Plain Fruit 249 

Plum 246 

Plum, English 246 

Plum, English Christmas. . 246 

Plum, Saratoga 247 

Porcupine 253 

Poverty 243 

Poverty .♦. 252 

President's 247 

Pretty Supper Dish 259 

Quaker 253 

Rice, with fruit 253 

Rice, frosted 253 

Rice, meringne 254 

Rice, without eggs 254 

Royal 254 

Snow 245 

Stale Bread, what to do with 259 

Steak or Kidney 258 

Strawberry 245 

Suet, No. 1 242 

Suet, No. 2 242 

Suet, No. 3 242 

Swiss.' 244 

Tapioca, No. 1 249 

Tapioca, No. 2 249 

Tapioca, No. 3 250 

Troy 248 

Yorkshire 257 

Sauces for Puddins:^. 

Cranberry 264 

Cream 265 

Hard, No. 1 264 

Hard, No. 2 264 

Maple Sugar 265 

Pudding 264 

Sweet 264 

Sweet 265 

Wine, No. 1 263 

Wine, No. 2. 263 

Wine, No. 3 263 

Dislies for Dessert. 

Blanc-Mange, No. 1 270 

Blanc-Mange, No. 2 271 

Blanc-Mange, Tapioca 270 

Charlotte, a la Parisienne. . 270 
Charlotte, Apple 269 



Dishes for Dessert- 
page. 

Charlotte, No. 1 267 

Charlotte, No. 2 267 

Charlotte, No. 3 267 

Charlotte, No. 4 268 

Charlotte. Russian 268 

Cream, a la Chateaubriand. 277 

Cream, a la Romaine 277 

Cream, an excellent 278 

Cream, Bavarian, Apricot. . 272 
Cream, Bavarian, Maras- 
chino 271 

Cream, Bavarian, Straw- 
berry 272 

Cream, Burnt, No. 1 274 

Cream, Burnt, No. 2 274 

Cream, Celestine 280 

Cream, Chocolate, No. 1 . . 274 
Cream, Chocolate, No. 2. . . 274 

Cream, Coffee, No. 1 273 

Cream, Coffee, No. 2 273 

Cream, Gooseberry 280 

Cream, Italian, No. 1 276 

Cream, Italian, No. 2 276 

Cream, Orange- flower 275 

Cream, Pistachio 275 

Cream, Rice 280 

Cream, Rock 278 

Cream, Snow 279 

Cream, Spanish 279 

Cream, Strawberry Celes- 

tina ' 276 

Cream, Velvet, No. 1 279 

Cream, Velvet, No, 2 279 

Croquante of French Wal- 
nuts 282 

Croquante of Orange 281 

Croquante of Ratifias, a la 

Chantilly 282 

Custard, Baked, No. 1 292 

Custard, Baked, No. 2 293 

Custard, Ornamented 292 

Custard, Rice 292 

Custard, Snow 293 

Custard, Sweet Potato, 292 

Everlasting or Solid Sylla- 
bubs 281 

Floating Island 270 

Jelly, Apricot 288 

Jelly, Cider 289 

Jelly, Coffee 299 

Jelly, Currant & Raspberry. 288 



396 



INDEX. 



Dishes for Dessert — 

PAGE. 

Jelly, Fruit in 290 

Jelly, Gelatine 290 

Jelly, Irish Moss 290 

Jellv, Lemon, No. 1 289 

Jelly, Lemon, No. 2 289 

Jelly, Orange 283 

Jelly, Pine-apple 284 

Jelly, Pistachio.. 285 

Jelly, Pomegranite . 284 

Jelly, Punch 287 

Jelly, Russian 286 

Jelly, Strawberry 284 

Jelly, Transparent, Oranges 

filled with 287 

Jellv, Variegated 285 

Jelly, Wine 290 

Lemon Honeycomb 291 

Macedoine of P>uits 285 

Moonshine 291 

Orange Dessert ... 283 

Orange Fool 291 

Oranges, Jellied 289 

Orgeat 291 



Jellies and Canned 
Fruits. 

Apricots, Brandied 309 

Brandy, Raspberry 310 

Cherries, Preserved 300 

Crab-apples, Siberian, Pre- 
served 303 

Currants, Spiced .......... 306 

Currants, to Can, without 

cooking 307 

Fruit, Canned 303 

Grapes, Brandied 309 

Grapes, Preserved 301 

Jam, Apple 307 

Jam, Currant 308 

Jam, Grape 308 

Jam, Green Gage 308 

Jam, Gooseberry, for Tarts. 307 

Jam, Quince 307 

Jam, Raspberry 308 

Jelly 298 

Jelly, Apple 299 

Jelly, Cranberry 299 

Jelly, Currant 299 

Jelly, Currant, without cook- 
ing 29it 



Jellies and Canned Fruits — 

PAGE. 

Jelly, Peach 299 

Jelly, Plum 298 

Marmalade 306 

Marmalade, Apple 304 

Marmalade, Cherry 306 

Marmalade, Crab-apple.. . . 304 

Marmalade, Lemon 304 

Marmalade, Orange 304 

Marmalade, Quince 305 

Marmalade, Tomato 305 

Marmalade, Transparent.. . 305 

Peaches, Brandied 309 

Peaches, Preserved 300 

Peaches, Preserved, Mar- 

blehead 301 

Pears, Preserved 300 

Pears. Preserved 302 

Pears, Stewed 310 

Pine-apples, Canned 304 

Pine-apples, Preserved. . . . 303 

Quinces, Preserved 301 

Quince Sauce 308 

Strawberries, Preserved... 302 
Tomatoes, Yellow, Pre- 
served 300 

Drinks. 

Beer, Ginger 317 

Beer, Maple 317 

Chocolate 314 

Cocoa, or Broma 314 

Coffee 313 

Cordial, Blackberry 317 

Cup, Badminton 320 

Cup, Chablis 319 

Cup, Chamj)agne 319 

Cup, Cider 320 

Cup, Claret 318 

Cup, Pine-apple 319 

Cup, Sauterne 318 

Egg Nogg 317 

Lemonade 318 

Mead, Sarsaparilla 316 

Mead, Sassafras 316 

Nectar, Cream 318 

Punch, Ice 315 

Punch, Milk 315 

Punch, Roman 315 

Rum, Cherry 323 

Sherbet, Lemon 316 

Sherbet, Pine-apple 316 



INDEX. 



397 



D R I N KS — Continued. 

PAGE. 

Shrub, Currant 315 

Shrub, Raspberry 317 

Verder 315 

Wine, a ridh and pleasant.. 321 

WJne, Black Currant 322 

Wine, Currant, No. 1 321 

Wine, Currant, No. 2 321 

Wine, Currant, No. 3 321 

Wine, Elder 322 

Wine, Cirape 320 

Wine, Raspberry 322 

Wine, Unfermented 320 

Wine, White Elder 323 

Wine Whey 321 

Confectionery. 

Candv, Cocoanut, quickly 

made 32G 

Candy, Cream 328 

Candy, Fi^^ 329 

Candy, Ice Cream 328 

Candy, Molasses, No. 1 327 

Candy, Molasses, No. 2 327 

Candy, Nut 330 

Candy, Vinegar 329 

Caramels 328 

Caramels, Chocolate, No. 1 32G 
Caramels, Chocolate, No. 2 326 

Corn Balls 320 

Drops, Chocolate Cream.. 327 

Drops, Cocoanut 327 

Drops, Lemon 328 

Drops, Marshmallow 328 

Taffy 329 

TaHy, Cocoanut 327 

Taffy, Everton 329 

For tlie Sick Room. 

Beef Tea, No. 1 334 

Beef Tea, No. 2: 334 

Broth, Mutton or Chicken. 335 

Broth, Scotch 334 

Broth, Veal 337 

Caudle for Invalids 333 

Caudle, Flour 336 

Cough Syrup 333 

Eggs, Fresh, for Invalids. . 338 

Gruel, Indian Meal 333 

Gruel, Oatmeal 334 

Hop Tea . . ., 338 

Milk, Ground Rice 336 

Milk, Sago 337 



For the Sick Room- 
page. 

Panada, Chicken 335 

Porridge, French Milk.... 336 

Porridge, Mi4k 336 

Rice, Boiled 337 

Salep 336 

Sippets 335 

Toast, Water 337 

Toast and Water 337 

Wine Whey 337 

Pertaining: to Plants. 

A Good Way to Plant 

Spring Bulbs 349 

Ashes and Iron for Flowers 343 
Autumn Work among Flow- 
ers 347 

Care of Indoor Plants 350 

Concerning House Plants. 340 
Effective Arrangement for 

Cut Flowers 348 

Ferns 347 

Ferns, Mounting 348 

Flowers, to Preserve 345 

Flowers, Religious value of 344 

Flowers in Sand 342 

Geraniums, How to Slip.. 346 

Hanging Garden 346 

Hanging Pots, Pretty. ..... 351 

Hyacinths, to raise in win- 
ter 345 

Lilies, Calla 342 

Lilies, Water 342 

Lilies for Pot Culture 345 

Moss Baskets, how to make 350 

Oleander Slips 342 

Parlor Vine, a 346 

Pot Flowers 352 

I9Iiscellaneous. 

Anchovies, Essence of . . . . 376 

Ants, to Drive Away 372 

Ant Trap 362 



Bandoline, How to Make. 



53 



Black Paper for Patterns.. . 374 

Blacking for Shoes 376 

Bone Felon, Cure for 361 

Brass, to Clean 370 

Butterflies and Moths 365 

Camphor Ice 360 

Carpets, to Clean 359 

Carpets, to Clean 367 

Cement 368 



398 



INDEX. 



Miscellaneous— Continued. 

PAGE. 

Cement for Broken China. 376 
Chaoped Hands, Paste for. 376 

Chilblains 368 

Chills, Cure for 369 

Clarified Sugar and Sweet- 
meats 377 

Cold Cream, to Make 358 

Complexion, for the 357 

Complexion, Wash for the. 357 

Corns, to Cure 354 

Corns, Soft, to Remove... 354 

Cough, to Cure 365 

Crape, to Restore 362 

Cut Glass 363 

Decanters, to Clean 363 

Diphtheria, to Cure. 365 

Disinfection 369 

Felon, to Prevent 364 

Filtering Orange or Lemon 

juice 379 

Fruit Stains, to Remove. . . 373 
Good Eggs, How to Tell. . 364 

Grafting Wax 360 

Grass, to Make Thrifty. ... 374 
Gravel Walks, to Destroy 

Grass in 374 

Grease, to Remove 361 

Grey Hair, to Prevent 356 

Grey Hair, to Restore 356 

Hair Brushes, to Clean. . . . 358 

Hair, to Clean 355 

Hair, to Beautify 356 

Hair Tonic 356 

Hair Tonic 376 

Hard Soap 375 

Headache, Sick 370 

Headache, Cure for 370 

Ink Stains 362 

Ink Stains, to Remove 360 

Ink from Mahogany 368 

Ivory Handle Knives, to 

Keep from Cracking. . . . 373 
Jellies, Ices, &c., Colorings 

for 378 

Kitchen Pepper 376 

Lard, to Keep and Prepare 360 

Lemon Juice, to Keep 377 

Lip Salve, to Make 358 

Lime Water 360 

Linen Whitened 364 

Measures for Housekeepers 358 
Mildew, to Remove 371 



Miscellaneous— Continued. 

PAGE. 

Milk Diet 367 

Mortar or Paint, to Re- 
move 371 

Moth, Protection against. . 355 

Mushrooms, to Pot 378 

Nails, Ingrowing 354 

Night Sweats ,. 367 

Oil or Grease Spots from 

Carpets, to Remove 372 

Oil from Boards or Stone, 

to Extract 374 

Paste for Paper 361 

Perspiration, to Remove 

Odor of 354 

Picture Frames, to Prevent 

Flies Injuring 364 

Pot-pourri 353 

Ratafia 355 

Rheumatism, Cure for 361 

Rose Water, How to Make 355 

Roses, Tincture of 355 

Rust, to Remove 363 

Sad Irons, Starch or Rust 

from 371 

Salve, Mrs. Wood's 361 

Seal Brown, to Color 375 

Setting Colors with Beefs 

Gall 359 

Sink or Drain, to Purify. . . 371 

Soft Soap 361 

Sore Throat, Cure for 360 

Soap for Whitening the 

Hands 370 

Spinach, Extract of 378 

Silk, to Clean 372 

Stains from Marble 375 

Stains, Iron, from Marble. . 375 
Stains from Linen, to Re- 
move 363 

Steel Knives from Rusting. 373 

Teeth, to Beautify 357 

Teeth, Care of 357 

Teeth, to Clean Black 357 

Velvet, to Renovate 373 

Wasp Stings 366 

Warts, to Remove 354 

Water Filter, Home-made. 366 

Wen, to Cure 369 

Well, to Purify 373 

White Lace, to Wash 370 

Woolen, to Wash 359 

Zinc, to Clean 359 



