Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for general ions on library shelves before il was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

Il has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often diflicult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parlies, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the plus We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a b<x>k is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 

countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means il can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's hooks while helping authors ami publishers reach new audiences. You can search through I lie lull text of this book on I lie web 
at |http : //books . qooqle . com/| 











IK 

>- • ■■> 
J& .... 



" v * ft * 7^* \ 

■1* € *«» * Mil. ' 



' fc / : 



i -••*'-.' 









*& :. 






-'.. « 






. \ 

'J- J 




f 



■. ««f^' 






t- 



t 









?: 



[— 





fiCsJ^ 







v at.:: <; 



} 






I 




ulinary Gems. 



A COLLECTION OF 



ifl cHQICE lJl ECIPES 111 




-it 



Ji,fe 



GATHERED WITH CARE FROM THE 



Treasures of Culinary Experts. 



WESTFIELL), MASS. : 

J. D. CADLE & CO., PRINTERS, 

1S34. 



Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1884, 

By MISS EMILY E. SQUIRE, 
In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 



1 







g^g . .+. 




v^uliDGrpv fer 



n 



rjGTpy vseips, 



$ 



* 



** Let me make your songs," said an ancient brother, 
" And never care I who makes your laws ; " 

44 Let me furnish your food," said wiser another, | 

"And valor and virtue shall win every cause." *® 

J. M. L. 




^D 




^ 




-• 9 



I^BBJieB X 

«— b 



C^OHIS little book has been compiled for the purpose 
4%y °f putting in more desirable form valuable recipes 
^^V^ which have been tested by persons of culinary 
skill and experience. Many of them have been extracted 
from private manuscripts, and contain the accumulated 
results of many successful trials. The names and initials 
annexed to the recipes are not intended to indicate, in all 
cases, the persons who originated them, but the sources 
from which they have been obtained, and the ladies who 
have tested their excellence ; although in many instances 
the recipes are original. 

No woman should be considered well educated who 
does not know thoroughly the fundamental elements of 
housekeeping. 

"We must have bread and meat. That is the most 
delightful home, in which nobody is fretted or worried by 
an untidy, an uncertain, or an ill-cooked meal. Man 
does not live, it is true, by bread alone; but the lower 
ministers to the higher, and she is doubly accomplished 
who is not ashamed to give her mind to the well-being 
of her family, even to the providing them with something 
good to eat every day." 

Miss Emily E. Squire, Editor, 

WE8TFIELD, Mass., June, 1884, 



TABLE OF CONTENTS, 



PAGE 

Chowders and Soups, . « 9 

Fish, . . .15 

Salads, 22 

Croquette8> 25 

Fritters, 27 

Meats, 28 

Poultry, 36 

Eggs 41 

Vegetables .43 

Bread, 49 

Pastry, # . . .58 

Cake, * 63 

Desserts, 76 

Preserves and Pickles, 91 

Drinks, ' 94 

Lunch Entertainments, 97 

Miscellaneous, 99 

Advertisements, 103 



Rule for Canning Fruits, 

Apples, sour, quartered, — Boil 10 minutes ; 6 oz. sugar per lb. 



Pears, small and sour, 
Pears, Bartlett, 
Cherries, 
Raspberries, 
Blackberries, 
Plums, 

Strawberries, 
Whortleberries, 
Pie Plant, sliced, 
Peaches, whole, 
Peaches, halves, 
Crab Apple, whole, 
Currants, ripe, 

jRAPES, 

Tomatoes, 



30 

20 

5 

6 

6 

10 

8 

5 

10 

15 

8 

25 

6 

10 
20 



8 
6 
6 
4 
6 
6 
8 
4 
10 
4 
4 
8 
8 
8 



j^ine Apple, sliced £ inch thick. — Boil 15 minutes ; 6 oz. sugar 
per lb. 
In all cases fruit should be boiled moderately, to prevent breaking. 



•J 



-*sS> 









CHOWDERS AND SOUPS. 



Above them the ocean is surging and swelling, 
Within its cool chambers they sport and they sleep ; 

Whatever it is that the wild waves are telling, 

The fishes forever their secret will keep. J. M. l. 



FISH CHOWDER. 

Two good sized flounders or 3 lbs. of fresh cod. Skin, 
cut in pieces 2 inches square and about an inch through ; 
take out all the bones possible. One slice of salt pork J 
inch thick, about 4 inches square, cut in 4 parts, place in 
saucepan holding 3 \ qts. Fry crisp, but do not scorch. 
Remove from the fire, place a layer of fish upon the pork 
to cover bottom of pan, then a layer of potatoes sliced 
thin, then onions very thin, a sprinkling of pepper and 
salt, then a layer of split crackers, first dipped in cold 
milk ; so on till the fish is used up. Fill the kettle with 
hot water, cover, and boil gently 1 hour without stirring. 

Dip half crackers in cold milk and cover the top with 
them about five minutes before serving. Slip all into 
*ureen with 1 pt. of warm milk, and butter size of half 

i.n egg. Use in all 1 heaping table-spoon of salt. E. 



10 CULINARY GEM 6. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

One pk. of long clams, if possible ; if not, use the 
round ones. Pour over them boiling water to cover till 
the shells will open. Remove from the shell, cut off the 
black heads and shake each one in the scalding liquid to 
remove any particles of sand. Prepare in layers as above, 
with the fried pork ; fill the pan with the water in which 
they* were scalded, cook and serve as fish chowder, adding 
salt to taste. E. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

One qt. of oysters put to boil in porcelain saucepan with 
1£ pts. of cold water, over a quick fire. When the oysters 
begin to swell pour them into a colander ; put the oysters 
in the tureen. Pour the liquor back into pan ; add J pt. 
of rich milk or thin cream, after skimming the liquor. 
Let it boil 5 minutes ; lay on the oysters bits of butter, in 
all one-half as large as an egg ; salt the liquor to taste ; 
add 1 dessert-spoon of finely minced celery, or 1 tea-spoon 
of celery salt ; pour in the liquor ; serve immediately. 

S. 

CLAM SOUP. 

Three pts. of long clams ; chop fine. Stew them with 
their own liquor and 3 qts. of water 1 hour. Strain ; 
put the liquor back over the fire. As soon as it boils add 
1 pt. milk, and thicken with 1 table-spoon of flour. 
Pepper and salt to taste. Butter size of an egg. Put 
in tureen 3 well beaten eggs ; turn the hot soup slowly 
over them, stir carefully. Serve immediately. 

Mrs. Anson Hooker. 



CHOWDERS AND SOUPS. 11 

VERMICELLI SOUP. 

A knuckle of veal ; break in small bits, cover well with 
cold water, add 1 heaping tea-spoon of salt. Boil till the 
meat is in shreds, and there are about two qts. of liquid ; 
strain and set away to cool. When ready for use let it 
come to a boil, add J cup of vermicelli, salt to taste, boil 
10 minutes. Put 1 cup thin cream in [one of French's 
pretty style] tureen, pour in soup, stir quickly and serve. 
A bit of ham bone thrown in to boil about 20 minutes 
before straining, improves the flavor very much. 

Mrs. James Fowler. 

VEAL AND SAGO BROTH. 

Two lbs. knuckle of veal cracked into pieces, 2 qts. 
cold water, 3 table-spoons sago soaked in 1 cup cold 
water, 1 cup of rich milk or cream heated to boiling, 
yolks of 2 eggs well beaten. Boil the veal and water 
very slowly in covered kettle till it is reduced one-half. 
Strain, season with salt, add the sago which has been 
standing in hot water i hour. Simmer all together £ 
hour, taking care not to burn ; beat in the cream and 
eggs, boil up for a moment, and turn into earthen dish. 
This is excellent for those with delicate lungs. It is also 
very nice made of beef instead of veal. 

Miss Fanny B. Bates. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Two qts. of meat stock, made by boiling once a week 

11 the bones and bits of meat left from the table that are 

useless for other purposes, of beef, mutton, fowls and 

ham. Put in a kettle with plenty of cold water, boil till 

the meat is reduced to shreds, strain and set in a cool 

3 



12 CULINARY GEMS. 

place. When ready for use remove the fat. To the 2 
qts. (if too strong add 1 pt. of boiling water) add 1 car- 
rot chopped, 1 large turnip sliced in thin inch pieces, 1 
potato and 2 onions sliced, 1 cup chopped cabbage, if 
liked ; boil 1 hour, salt to taste. E. 

« 

PARKER HOUSE TOMATO SOUP. 

For 1 gallon : Take 3 qts. of beef stock, add 1 carrot, 
1 turnip, 2 beets, 2 onions, all pared and chopped ; add 
3 qts. fresh peeled tomatoes, if possible, or 2 qt. cans. 
Boil 1 hour, strain through a colander, mashing the veg- 
etables through ; 2 table-spoons melted butter, 4 heaping 
table-spoons flour dissolved in cold water, 1 each of sugar, 
pepper and salt. Return to the stove, stir till it boils ; 
boil 5 minutes, skim, and serve. 

Mrs. Oeorge G. Tucker. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

One qt. tomatoes, 1 pt. water. Boil 1 hour. Add 1 
table-spoon butter, 2 of flour, salt and pepper to taste. 
Soda size of a pea. Tnen add 1 qt. milk ; let all come to 
a boil, strain and serve. Mrs. S. W. W. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

One qt. meat stock, 1 qt. tomatoes. When it boils 
add § cup sifted cracker crumbs, boil 10 minutes, add 1 
qt. rich milk, butter size J an egg, salt and pepper to 
taste, \ tea-spoon celery salt, £ an onion grated. Let it. 
boil a few moments, strain and serve. E. 

POTATO SOUP. 
Nine good sized potatoes and 1 onion pared, and boil 



CHOWDERS AND SOUPS. 13 

in 2 qts. of water. When soft, rub through a sieve into 
the water in which they were boiled. Let it come to a 
boil. Put 1 cup of sweet cream in tureen, 1 tea-spoon 
salt. Pour over this the hot liquid, stir briskly, serve 
immediately. Very nice flavored with \ tea-spoon of ex- 
tract of celery or celery salt. Mrs. James Fowler. 

POTATO SOUP. 

One qt. rich milk, 6 good sized potatoes, stalk of cel- 
ery or celery salt, 1 small onion, 1 table-spoon butter, 1 
cup thick cream, yolks 2 eggs. Pare, and boil the pota- 
toes till thoroughly dor**, mash fine and light, add the 
butter, and pepper and .salt to taste. Put milk with 
onion and celery over to boil. When it comes to a boil, 
skim out onion and celery, beat the yolks very light, whip 
the cream, put eggs and cream in hot tureen [French will 
supply you] , stir mashed potato into milk, and strain over 
the eggs and cream. L. A. S. 

SOUP FOR INVALIDS. 

Two lbs. each of beef shank broken in bits and shoulder 
of mutton or neck piece. Put to boil in 8 qts. of cold 
water, 1 table-spoon of salt. Boil till the meat is in 
shreds and the liquid reduced to nearly one-half. Re- 
move the large bones. Add the following vegetables. 
Boil 1 hour, then strain thoroughly, pressing out all the 
juices of the meats and vegetables with potato-masher. 
Set in cold place where it will jelly. When cold remove 
the fat. For vegetables use 1 large carrot sliced very 
thin, 3 large onions, J cup rice ; or vary this to suit the 
taste with 1 coffee-cup of canned tomatoes, with rice and 
onions ; or, £ pt. of beans soaked several hours before 



B 



14 



CULINARY GEMS. 




using, and added with the onions. Add J cup chopped 
celery in each case, if you have it, or 1 dessert-spoon of 
extract of celery or celery salt. In no case omit the 
onions, as this soup is specially designed for cases of 
nervous prostation and exhaustion from overworked brains 
and nerves. Take 1 coffee-cup hot before retiring; In 
extreme cases, another before rising in the morning. 

Prescribed by Dr. Mitchell, Phila. 



OX-TAIL SOUP. 

Pick and wash 1 qt. of split peas and put to soak in 
water over night. Prepare the ox-tail by taking out the 
small cord from the under side ; cut it into pieces 3 or 4 
inches long. Put to boil in 6 qts. of water, with 1 table- 
spoon salt ; add the peas, boil 3 hours. When all are 
boiled soft, strain, return to the kettle, and boil 5 minutes. 

Mrs. H. J. Bush. 



OX-TAIL SOUP WITH VEGETABLES. 

Prepare the ox-tail as above, omitting the peas. Boil 
2 hours. Add the following vegetables : 6 large pota- 
toes sliced, the same of onions, season to suit the taste, 
and serve without straining. Skim off all the fat before 
adding the vegetables. E. 



FISH 15 



FISH. 



We search the ocean's clear blue depths, 

We tempt with bait and hook ; 
And close-lipped bivalves force to speak 

In measures for our book. l. f. g 



BOILED SALMON. 

• 

Before boiling put it in salt water about J inch deep, 
just enough to cover the black skin. Let it lie about J 
hour, then scrape the skin thoroughly. This improves the 
flavor and color of the fish very much. Dip a thin cloth 
in boiling water, dredge with flour, wrap the fish in this. 
Place over the fire in cold water to cover. Boil 2 lbs. 20 
minutes. Add 1 dessert-spoon of salt 5 minutes before 
taking it up. Place upon the platter whole, remove the 
black skin carefully, pour drawn butter over it, garnish 
with sliced boiled egg and sprigs of parsley. Treat hali- 
but, haddock and cod in the same way. E. 

DRAWN BUTTER. 

One coffee-cup milk, 1 water, boil, add 1 table-spoon 
of flour or corn starch, boil 5 minutes ; strain, unless per- 
fectly smooth. Add butter size of an egg and chopped 
boiled egg, unless it is to be garnished with slices. S. 

SALMON LOAF. 

One can salmon, or equal amount of cold roast or 
boiled, 4 eggs beaten light, 4 table-spoons butter melted 



16 CULINARY GEMS. 

but not hot, i cup fine bread crumbs. Season with pep- 
per, salt and minced parsley. Mash the fish fine in 
wedgewood mortar or in bowl with back of silver spoon, 
adding the butter till it is a smooth paste. Beat the 
bread crumbs into the eggs and season before working all 
together. Put into buttered pudding mould and steam 1 
hour. Sauce for the above : 1 cup of milk heated to 
boiling and thickened with 1 table-spoon corn starch, add 
the liquor from the canned fish or double the quantity 
of butter, 1 table-spoon butter, 1 raw egg, 1 tea-spoon 
anchovy, mushroom or tomato catsup, 1 pinch mace, 
same cayenne pepper. Put the egg in last and very care- 
fully, boil 1 minute, and when the loaf is turned from the 
mould, pour it over it and cut in slices at the table. 

Mrs. Dr. H. M. Field. 

SALT CODFISH HASH. 

One-half a small thick cod. Soak 2 hours in plenty of 
water, skin side up, place over the fire in cold water, let 
it come to a boil, remove, take off the skin, pick out all 
the bones. Have fresh boiled potatoes drained dry, 
about as much in quantity, when mashed, as fish. Mash 
together, add salt if needed, J cup butter, \ cup milk. 
Work till perfectly light with 1 well beaten egg in the 
shallow, hot kettle ; serve hot. E. 

FISH BALLS. 

Use the above rule, in quantity offish, with about one- 
half as many more potatoes. Pick up the fish carefully, 
put to soak over night in cold water enough to cover. 
Press out the water with the hands in the morning, add 
to the fresh boiled potatoes, mix as in the rule above, 



FISH. 17 

with the beaten egg, butter and milk; work perfectly 
light. Fry a slice of salt pork, make up the cakes with 
the hands, dust with flour, fry in the hot pork fat. Have 
bits of butter on the warm platter before the balls are 
taken up ; fry a delicate brown, watching carefully that 
they do not scorch ; garnish with the crisp pork. E. 

BAKED BLUE FISH AND SHAD. 

Remove the backbone with a sharp knife, cutting close 
each side, taking care not to break through the skin. 
Make a dressing as for turkey, adding 1 table-spoon of 
finely minced celery. Fill with the dressing and sew up 
the fish ; gash across about J inch deep 3 gashes, place in 
each a shred of salt pork. Bake f of an hour, slip care- 
fully whole upon the hot platter, garnish with very thin 
slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley. All kinds of fresh 
fish can be baked in the same way. ' E. 

FRIED FRESH FISH. 

Drain the fish after washing (if large, cut in squares, 
small fish whole), sprinkle with salt, dust with Indian 
meal. Fry salt pork, place the fish in the hot fat, cook 
slowly J an hour a delicate brown, put bits of butter on 
hot platter, lay on the fish and serve immediately. S. 

FRIED SALT COD. 

Cut the thick white part of the fish in 4-inch squares, 
soak over night in plenty of water, peel off the skin, wipe 
dry, fry a delicate brown in hot, fresh lard, remove as 
soon as browned, clean the spider, pour in 1 cup cream, 
thicken with 1 tea-spoon of corn 6tarch, salt to taste, pour 
ipon the platter, lay on the fish, and serve. E. 



18 



CULINARY GEMS. 



FISH WITH CREAM. 

Boil 2 lbs. of halibut, haddock, or cod, 20 minutes, 
break it in fine pieces with a fork. While hot add butter 
size of an egg, pepper and salt to taste. Make a sauce 
of 1 pt. cream or rich milk, boil in it a small onion sliced 
3 minutes, strain, add a table-spoon of flour, let it boil 
till quite thick. Cover the bottom of a deep dish with 
the fish, pour over the sauce to cover, another layer, and 
so on to fill the dish ; sprinkle with cracker crumbs rolled 
fine, a few bits of butter, a dust of salt and pepper, the 
juice of J a lemon ; brown quickly in the oven and serve. 

Mrs. Wm. G. Bates. 

LOBSTER HASH ON TOA^T. 

Chop the lobster fine, add 1 cup of cold water, boil 3 
minutes, add piece of butter size of an egg, salt and pep- 
per to taste ; serve on delicately browned toast. E. 

FANCY ROAST OYSTERS. 

One qt. of "counts." Toast 4 large slices of bread, 
delicately. Put the oysters over the fire in saucepan 
without water, simmer till the oysters are swollen, stir- 
ring constantly to prevent their burning ; remove, season 
highly with salt, butter and pepper to taste, pile them on 
the toast ; serve immediately. S. 

OYSTERS A' LA BOULETTE. 

Put 1 qt. of oysters over the fire in their own liquor. 
The moment it begins to boil turn it into a hot dish 
through a colander, leaving the oysters in the colander. 
Put into the saucepan butter the size of an egg. When 
it bubbles sprinkle in 1 table-spoon of sifted flour ; let it 






FISH. 19 

cook a minute without taking color, stirring it well with 
a wire egg whisk ; then add, mixing well, 1 cup oyster 
liquor. Remote from the fire, and mix in the yolks of 
2 eggs, salt to taste, a scant J of a tea-spoon of cayenne 
pepper, 1 of lemon juice, 1 grating of nutmeg ; beat it 
well, then return it to the fire to set the eggs without 
boiling. Put in the oysters. Nice for breakfast and 
lunch, poured over toast. Mrs. Wm. G. Bates. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Large, fat oysters. Strain off all the liquor, lay them 
between 2 soft towels to absorb all moisture ; press them 
gently, as the moisture makes them absorb the fat in fry- 
ing. Dip them in beaten egg 9 roll in sifted cracker 
crumbs, spread them on a [French's china] platter, and 
let them lie 2 or 3 hours before cooking ; fry in half but- 
ter and lard, sprinkle over a little salt in cooking. As 
fast as fried place in tin pan over tea-kettle to keep hot 
and dry. Mrs. H. W- Bates. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Select large fat ones ; dry them in a towel, season with 
a sprinkling of pepper and salt ; lay them in a closely 
woven folding wire broiler, near together. Place over a 
clear fire, turn as the oysters cook ; put small bits of but- 
ter on hot platter, lay on the oysters carefully ; serve im- 
mediately. Miss Frances Fowler. 

OYSTER PIE. 

Line a deep dish with pie paste rolled thin, put in a 
layer of raw oysters, a sprinkling of salt and pepper, and 
thin layer of sifted cracker crumbs, a few bits of butter ; 



20 CULINARY GEMS. 

so on to fill the dish within an inch of the top. Pour 

over the liquor of the oysters, cover with a rich puff 

paste, bake J hour. • 

Mrs. James Fowler. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Roll puff paste f of an inch thick, cut with a biscuit 
cutter ; take a smaller sized one, dip in hot water, cut 
half way down in centre of large one, bake i hour. When 
done remove the cut top, take out any soft or heavy part, 
fill with "fancy roast oysters," or "oysters a' la bou- 
lette," replace the cover, and serve. 

Mrs. E. B. Abbe. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

One qt. of oysters, \ loaf of fresh baker's bread broken 
in crumbs. Put a layer £ inch thick in the bottom of 
buttered deep dish, then a thick layer of oysters, a sprink- 
ling of salt and pepper and bits of butter ; so on till the 
dish is full. Pour over all £ pt. of rich milk, cover the 
last layer of oysters with very fine cracker crumbs, several 
good sized bits of butter; bake 1 hour in moderate oven. 
Serve immediately if possible. E. 

SCALLOPED LOBSTER. 

Two small lobsters, as the meat of small ones is more 
juicy and tender than the large ones. Chop them, laying 
aside the coral. Prepare in layers, as in scalloped oys- 
ters, seasoning the same ; £ pt. of milk, or water if pre- 
ferred ; add cracker crumbs last, bake £ of an hour. Gar- 
nish when done with the coral grated in spots and parsley 
sprigs. E. 



FISH. 21 

FEIQASSEED EELS. 

After skinning, cleaning and cutting 5 or 6 eels in 
pieces 2 inches in length, boil them in water nearly ta 
cover till tender, then add a piece of butter as large as 
half an egg, with 1 tea-spoon of flour or fine cracker 
crumbs worked into it, and a little scalded and chopped 
parsley ; add salt and pepper to taste, and 3 table-spoons 
of vinegar, if liked. Let them simmer 10 minutes, and 
serve hot. Mrs. L. F. T. 

OYSTER STEW. 

One qt. of "counts," 1 pt. of cold water. Put over 
the fire in porcelain saucepan. When the oysters are 
swollen, remove and strain ; do not allow them to boil, 
as it hardens them. Put the oysters in a warm tureen, 
with bits of butter over them, boil the liquor with £ pt. 
of rich milk 5 minutes, add salt to taste. If liked, add 2 
rolled, sifted crackers to the oysters. Pour over them the 
boiling liquor ; serve immediately. S. 

SHEIMP SAUCE. 

Two table-spoons of flour, £ cup butter creamed to- 
gether, add gradually 1 pt. boiling water, stir till it comes 
to a boil, add to this 2 table-spoons essence anchovy, 1 
chopped parsley, and £ pt. canned shrimps. Stir well 
and serve. L. A. S. 

CREAM OYSTERS. 

Pour 1 qt. of oysters into a saucepan and bring to a 
)oil, skim out the oysters and put in baking dish. 1 
able-spoon butter and 2 of flour cooked together in an- 



22 



CULINARY GEMS. 



other saucepan, stir them into the boiling liquor and add 
.£ cup thick cream, salt and pepper to taste. Pour this 
over the oysters, cover with cracker crumbs, and brown. 

Mrs. Dr. J. Waterman. 



r 



SALADS. 



Fair, distant islands clad in tender green, 
Touched by the bright rays of the setting sun, 
Reposing in a sea of molten gold, 
Present no greater charnas than can be seen 
Within a salad bowl, when all is done, 

Which on these pages is distinctly told. 



F. F. 



SALAD DEESSING OF OIL. 

Two yolks of eggs beaten in a cold bowl with a silver 
spoon till stiff, then add, a few drops at a time, 1 pt. of 
best olive oil, stirring constantly the same way till per- 
fectly stiff like dough ; add 1 tea-spoon salt, 1 of white 
pepper, 1 of white sugar, 1 table-spoon of mixed mustard 
(add more if not sharp enough), 1 small cup sharp vine- 
gar. Mix these ingredients smoothly together before 
adding to the beaten oil. Drop 2 yolks of eggs into boil- 
ing water, taking care not to break them ; boil till hard, 
mash them very smooth, with £ tea-spoons of vinegar 
and add to the dressing. Pour into glass jars, and keei 
in cool place ; will keep months. If used the same day 
beat the 2 whites of eggs to a dry froth, add to the las 
layer of dressing, and heap on the dish of salad. E. 



1 

i 



SALADS. 23 

SALAD DRESSING OF BUTTER. 

Three beaten eggs, 1 table-spoon of sugar, 1 of butter, 
% cup of vinegar, 1 tea-spoon of mustard, 1 of salt, 1 of 
pepper ; beat all together, and stir over the steam of kettle 
till it thickens. Mrs. J. W. Colton. 

SALAD DRESSING OF BUTTER. 

Four eggs well beaten, 1 table-spoon mixed mustard, 
1 tea-spoon salt, J cayenne pepper, butter the size of 2 
eggs. Beat well together, add 1 gill vinegar (if very 
sharp, dilute with water), stir all in dish over boiling 
water till as thick as cream. Thin with cream if too 
thick. Use when cold for 1 large chicken. 

Miss Grace Harding. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

The breast of chickens chopped coarsely, nearly twice 
as much celery cut with a knife very fine, after washing 
and spreading upon a towel to absorb the water. Put a 
thick layer of celery in the bottom of salad dish [one of 
French's lovely patterns], sprinkle slightly with salt, then 
a scant layer of chicken, pourbver the oil dressing, and 
so on till the dish is full, then pour the dressing over gen- 
erously ; garnish with thin slices of boiled egg and olives 
and small celery leaves around the edge of dish. Keep 
cold till ready for the table. Nice made of chopped cab- 
bage, seasoned with celery salt when celery is not access- 
ible. E. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

One-half as much lobster as lettuce. Get the small 
lobsters if possible. Chop the lobster, not very fine ; 



24 , CULINARY GEMS. 

wash the lettuce and press carefully in a towel after it has 
drained to absorb all the moisture. Lay on a plate in 
bunches ; shave across with a sharp knife, as it bruises 
less than chopping it. Fill salad dish in layers as in 
chicken salad, save the red coral to grate in spots over the 
top, encircle with the claws and small lettuce leaves. 
Place on the ice till ready for the table. S. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

One qt. of counts cooked without water till swollen in 
saucepan over the fire. Remove till cold, then fill your 
salad dish in layers with celery sliced thin and dressing, 
picking the oysters from the liquor ; add 1 table-spoon of 
the liquor with each layer of oysters ; garnish with celery 
leaves. Miss F. B. Bates. 

SALMON SALAD. 

Take fresh-boiled or remnants of boiled salmon, pick to 
pieces, and prepare same as lobster, with lettuce. E. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Six cold boiled potatoes, quartered and sliced thin ; 
slice in same way 1 large' onion. Place in alternate layers 
in salad dish with a sprinkling of salt and pepper over 
each layer. Fry the fat from a good-sized slice of salt 
pork, add to this J cup of vinegar. Pour boiling hot 
over the whole. Garnish with very thin little squares of 
tender boiled beet. Cover closely with a dish till cold. 

Mrs. Timothy Sncw 

ATLANTIC CITY COLD SLAW. 

One-half cup vinegar, butter size of a large walnut, 
tea-spoon corn starch, 3 table-spoons cream, J tea-spooi 



CROQUETTES. 25 

mustard, yolks 2 eggs, £ tea-spoon salt. Boil vinegar, 
add the other ingredients well beaten, boil just enough to 
thicken, add white of 1 egg beaten stiff as soon as removed 
from the fire. Chop the cabbage very fine, season slightly 
with salt and vinegar, mix a part of the dressing with it, 
pile the rest on top. Benjamin. 



4 ^«» » 



CKOQUETTES, 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

The breast of 2 broiled chickens chopped fine, 1 cup of 
soft bread crumbs, 2 well beaten eggs, 2 table-spoons 
chopped parsley, pepper and salt to taste, piece of butter 
size of an egg. Make into egg-shaped balls, dip in 
beaten egg, roll in sifted cracker crumbs, fry in hot lard. 
Veal and sweet-breads can be made in the same way. 

Mrs. George Strong. 

LOBSTER CROQUETTES. 

Mince the lobster very fine, season with pepper and salt 
to taste, add melted butter size of an egg, bread crumbs 
sufficient to make into balls, shape with the hands into 
pear-shaped balls, dip in beaten egg, roll in sifted cracker 
or bread crumbs, fry in hot lard or butter. 

Mrs. L. F. T. 

SALMON CROQUETTES. 

Mince remnants of boiled salmon slightly. Put in a 
saucepan sufficient milk to moisten the fish, thicken with 



26 CULINARY GEMS. 

flour like drawn butter, add butter size of an egg ; cook 
1 minute, then add pepper, salt, a trifle of nutmeg and 
minced parsley to the taste ; add the fish. As soon as it 
is well heated through remove from the fire, stir in the 
yolk of a beaten egg and juice of half a lemon, spread on 
a platter to cool. Make into balls, allowing 1 table- 
spoonful to each one, dip in beaten egg, roll in sifted 
cracker or bread crumbs ; let them lie 1 hour ; fry in hot 
lard. Nice served with fried parsley. 

Miss Lizzie Dickinson. 

OYSTEE CROQUETTES. 

Half pt. raw oysters chopped Jine, £ pt. boiled veal 
minced to a powder, 1 heaping table-spoon soft butter, 3 
of sifted cracker crumbs, yolks 2 eggs, 1 dessert-spoon 
onion juice [grate it and strain] , salt and pepper to taste ; 
add half the oyster liquor, beat all together very light, 
make into about 8 rolls, dip in egg, then sifted cracker 
crumbs and fry very quickly. S. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

See recipe for cooking rice. Mix with the boiled rice 
butter to moisten, yolks 2 or 3 eggs beaten very light, J 
tea-spoon mace, if liked. Substitute 1 table-spoon grated 
cheese for eggs, if liked. Make into shape and prepare as 
other croquettes to fry. Mrs. E. B. Gillette. 



FRITTERS. 27 



FBITTEKS. 



PLAIN FRITTERS. 

Two eggs beaten separately to a stiff froth ; add to the 
beaten yolks 1 cup milk, 2 sifted flour, 1 tea-spoon salt, 
1 sugar, 1 table-spoon butter. Beat all together very 
light with "large size Dover egg-beater" (which we find 
invaluable for such purposes), add the whites, stir in 
gently, drop by table-spoonfuls into hot lard ; fry a deli- 
cate brown. Nice with raspberry vinegar. t E. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Five large juicy apples ; take out the cores, peel them, 
cut each apple in 4 Slices around. Prepare batter as in 
rule above ; dip each slice in separately, drop in hot fat, 
fry a light brown. Serve immediately with powdered 
sugar over them. E. 

PEACH FRITTERS. 

Prepare and fry like "apple fritters," using halves of 
ripe peaches instead of apples. E. 

ORANGE FRITTERS. 

Prepare and fry as above. After peeling the oranges, 
carefully divide each section, not to break the skin. 

Mrs. Anson Hooker. 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

Prepare and fry as above, using large fat oysters in- 
stead of fruit. They will absorb less of the fat if the oys- 



28 CULINARY GEMS. 

ters are carefully wiped dry before using, but the fritters 
will not be quite so strong in flavor of the oyster. S. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

One doz. ears of sweet corn. Cut the grains down the 
•centre, and scrape off lightly all the corn ; stir in gradu- 
ally 2 table-spoons flour, 3 eggs beaten light, salt and 
pepper to taste. Mix well together, drop 1 table-spoonful 
at a time ; serve hot. Mrs. A. P. Strong. 



«^*» > 



MEATS. 



Stuff it, and roast it, and baste it with care ; 
Daintily then the gravy prepare ; 
While 'round you the savory odors shall tell, 
Whate'er is worth doing is worth doing well. l. f. g. 



ROAST BEEF. 

Roast 10 lbs. 1 i hours in a hot oven ; 6 lbs. 1 hour. 
Pour into the pan hot water about J inch in depth ; baste 
frequently with the drippings. When done, sprinkle over 
it 1 table-spoon of salt, moisten with the drippings enough 
to dissolve salt ; place on a hot platter, serve immediatelj 
Beef should never be salted before roasting, broiling o 
frying, as it extracts the juices and hardens it ; and neve; 
in boiling, except in stews where the water is to be use< 
with the beef. E. 




MEATS. 29 

BOILED FRESH BEEF. 

From 6 to 10 lbs. should boil from 4 to 5 hours. Tie 
it closely with a strong cord to keep it in shape. Let the 
water be boiling when the meat is put in. Boil very 
slowly till done. Rub over it 1 table-spoon of salt when 
first removed from the water ; cover closely 5 minutes be- 
fore serving, to allow the salt to penetrate. E. 

CORNED BEEF AND HAM, 

From 6 to 10 lbs. should boil from 5 to 6 hours. Tie it 
firmly to keep it in shape. Put it to boil in kettle nearly 
full of cold water ; boil gently till done. Boil ham the 
same. Take off the rind, sprinkle with fine bread or 
cracker crumbs, stick in 1 'doz. cloves ; bake quickly, to 
brown it. If to be served whole, garnish with parsley. 

S. 

4 

BOILED TONGUE. 

If fresh, put in boiling water. Add, after boiling 2 
hours, 1 table-spoon of salt. Let it boil till a fork will 
slip in easily. Boil the water out before removing as 
much as possible and not burn. Remove all the floating 
fat, add 1 small, sliced onion, J cup of vinegar, 2 table- 
spoons of walnut catsup (if the walnut is not accessible, 
use tomato catsup) ; let it simmer a few moments. Re- 
move the tongue, peel off the skin, place on hot platter, 
pour over it a portion of the hot liquid, thickened with 1 
tea-spopn of flour; serve hot. If to be eaten cold, place 
the tongue in deep earthen dish, pour over the liquid, 
cover, and cool quickly. When ready for use, remove 
and wipe dry. Serve whole, or in slices, with sprigs of 
parsley. Mrs. Edward E. Hardy. 



r 



30 CULINARY GEMS. 



Roast and Boiled Mutton. — Same as beef. 



E. 



i» . 



ROAST LAMB OR VEAL. 

Make a dressing as for fowls ; tie it in closely. Roast 
lamb of 6 to 10 lbs. from 1J to 2 hours. Lay on little 
bits of salt pork ; baste frequently. About 15 minutes 
before removing from the oven, baste with 1 table-spoon 
salt, remove from the pan, keep hot. Roast veal of 8 
lbs. 4 hours, with the slivers of pork, and baste fre- 
quently ; salt as lamb. Make gravy as in rule below, 
and for the roast lamb a mint sauce also. E. 

GRAVY FOR ROAST MEATS. 

Take the drippings from the pan, skim or pour off all 
the fat possible, thicken with browned flour, salt, boil 5 
minutes, and add butter to taste ; serve hot. E. 

MINT SAUCE. 

One cup of finely-minced spearmint, £ cup of vinegar, 
\ of hot water, 1 table-spoon sugar. Let it come to a 
boil ; serve hot. S. 

BOILED DINNER. 

Boil piece of corned beef, as in directions given above. 
Add a 2-inch square of salt pork, if liked ; then add beets, 
cabbage, turnips, parsnips and potatoes in order, giving 
each the time to cook allowed in the general directions for 
cooking vegetables. The fat should be carefully skimmed 
off the top of the water before adding the vegetables. 
The beets should be put over with the beef in the winter j 
•in summer they will cook in 2 hours. If desired with th< 
other vegetables, squash can be cooked in steamer ovei 
the whole. E. 



■tL 



MEATS. 31 

BEOILEP BEEF AND MUTTON. 

Place in folding wire broiler ovfer a bright, quick fire ; 
turn frequently till done to suit the taste ; examine by 
slipping a sharp knife down through it, and prying the 
slash open. When done, place on hot platter, with a 
sprinkling of salt and bits of butter, as relished; serve 
immediately. E. 

BEEFSTEAK SMOTHEEED IN ONIONS. 

A thick slice of sirloin or tender round steak. Fry a 
small slice of salt pork in an iron spider ; remove the 
pork when crisp, and keep hot. Slice 6 large onions into 
the hot fat ; cover them, and fry gently till tender, about 
1 hour. Remove the onions ; lay the beef in the hot 
spider, cover, it with the onions ; sprinkle a little salt over 
the onions, if not already salt enough from the pork. 
Cover, and cook as quickly as possible without scorching. 
Place it carefully on a hot platter, on which are very 
small bits of butter and sprinkling of salt ; serve immedi- 
ately. E. 

PRESSED BEEF AND HAM. 

Boil half of corned beef and ham separately, of the 
amount required. Cook till tender ; cut off nearly all the 
fat ; break into strips immediately after removing from 
the water. While hot, pack very firmly in a mold, in al- 
. ternate pieces, with a few drops of mixed mustard or wal- 
nut catsup on each layer. When the the mold is filled, 
cover closely with flat surface ; add heavy weights ; let it 
stand in cold place over night. When ready for use, cut 
with a very sharp knife in thin slices ; garnish with pars- 
ley. E. 



32 CULINARY GEMS. 

JELLIED BEEF. 
A shin or knuckle of beef broken (not sawed) in 1 
Put to boil in cold water to cover. Boil slowly till 
meat will fall from the bones. In removing from 
water, drain the fat from it, and put away to cool. 1 
the bones and gristle about 5 hours longer ; add ir 
boiling water, if necessary, to keep the bones covei 
Strain, and set in a cold place over night. Remove i 
and if the meat has not jellied, boil while you mince 
meat ; add salt and pepper to taste ; also sage and sv 
marjoram, if liked, about 1 dessert-spoon of each. ] 
the meat in liquid, after it is chopped, till thoroug 
mixed. Pour into molds or deep dishes [one of French 
To be eaten cold. Best in winter. Mrs. J. R. Reed 

VEAL LOAF. 
Three lbs. of lean veal, J lb. of salt pork, 6 soda era 
ers rolled and sifted, 3 eggs well beaten, k cup cream 
butter size of an egg, 1 table-spoon sage, 1 of salt, 1 < 
sert-spoon of black pepper. Chop the veal and pork 
gether, raw, very fine, or ask your butcher to weigh 
put them through a sausage-cutter till very fine. Mix 
thoroughly, form into loaves, roll in cracker erum 
place in dripping-pan with about J inch of water. B 
1 hour, slowly ; baste frequently. Makes 2 loaves. 
Miss Mart Dibble 

SWEETBREADS. 

Soak in cold water 15 minutes ; clean thorougl 

Put in boiling water, boil 20 minutes; remove, s 

them once, season with salt and pepper on split si 

butter spider, fry quickly delicate brown on both eid 



MEATS. 33 

place on hot platter. Heat J cup cream, pour over 
them, and bits of butter ; heap creamed asparagus around 
them, or nicely /Seasoned peas. E. 

TEA RELISH. 

Take leg, or any piece of lamb free from fat. Boil till 
the bones can be easily removed. Return the meat to the 
kettle ; boil till little water remains ; season to suit the 
taste. Have ready 6 hard-boiled eggs. Lay the meat in* 
a mold, with the eggs placed lengthwise at intervals ; 
keep cold. When ready for use cut in slices. 

Chelsea. 

BEEF. AU GRATIN. 

Take cold beef, either boiled or roasted. Cut in small 
pieces (or chop) ; butter a dish, sprinkle with bread 
crumbs, then meat, season with salt and pepper, and 
sweet herb to taste ; then more bread, and so on, till the 
dish is full. If meat is lean, add bits of butter. Pour 
over i cup of gravy or water, and bake. F. A. C. 

BEEF AND VEAL PIE. 

Take rare cold bits of beef and veal and 1 slice of salt 
pork, in all about 1 qt., one small onion. Mince all to- 
gether, season with salt and pepper to taste, 1 cup of 
meat stock. Pour in a pudding dish, add bits of butter 
size of an egg ; cover with soda crust or puff paste. Bake 
£ hour ; serve. E. 

TO WARM OVER MEAT. 

Butter a dish ; put in a layer of mashed seasoned pota- 
toes, then any kind of meat you wish to utilize ; chop 
fine, season with salt, pepper and butter to taste, then 



34 



CULINARY GEMS. 



more mashed potato ; so on, till the dish is full. The top 
layer should be potato. If meat which has been boiled 
for soup is used, pour over 1 cup of meat stock, cover 
with the potato, spread on beaten egg. Bake \ hour; 
serve hot. Mrs. Wm. G. Bates. 

BEEF STEW WITH DUMPLINGS. 

Two lbs. round beef, or any cheap part ; 2 J if bone in 
it ; 1 onion, 2 slices of carrot, 2 turnips, 2 potatoes, 3 
table-spoons of flour, salt and peppeivto taste, 1 large qt. 
of water. Cut all the fat from the meat, and put it in a 
stewpan ; fry gently 10 or 15 minutes. Cut the sliced 
vegetables in small pieces ; fry in the hot fat 10 minutes. 
Cut the beef into inch squares, salt and pepper it; 2 
table-spoons of the flour rubbed into the meat. Put meat 
in the stewpan ; stir it about till it begins to brown, add 
the water. Let it boil up quickly, and skim ; then set it 
back where it will just bubble 2J hours. Add the pota- 
toes sliced ; add 1 table-spoon of flour mixed with 1 cup 
of water ; boil 10 minutes ; add the dumplings. Boil 
hard, taking care that it does not burn, 15 minutes. 
Dumplings : One pt. of flour, 2 heaping tea-spoons bak- 
ing powder, J of salt, 1 tea-spoon of fine granulated 
sugar. Put all into a sieve, mix thoroughly, and sift ; 
wet with 1 small cup of milk. Mix dough into a smooth 
ball, roll out £ inch thick, cut with biscuit-cutter. Mut- 
ton, lamb, or veal will do as well for the stew. When 
veal is used, fry 2 slices of pork. Miss Parloa, 

Mrs. D. N. Lane, 



PLAIN STEW. 
Any kind of meat can be used. Cut in 3 or 4-incl 




MEATS, 35 

squares. Put to boil with sufficient water to cover, and 
seasoned with salt and pepper to taste ; add a small slice 
of salt pork, cut in bits. Boil till tender; place upon a 
hot platter. Add flour to the liquid to make it as thick 
as gravy; butter to taste. Pour this over the meat, and 
add baking powder, or raised dumpling made like raised 
biscuit, rolled about f of an inch thick, and cut with bis- 
cuit-cutter. To cook them, place them on the boiling 
meat, or in steamer over the meat. Cook 20 minutes ; 
place in warming-closet till the meat is made ready, then 
serve immediately. S. 

FRICADELLA. 

Take pieces of mea£ left from roasts ; part raw and 
part well cooked is best. Chop very fine, and mix with 
dry bread, soaked and squeezed ; add salt and pepper to 
taste, and a tiny bit of grated nutmeg : add meat stock 
or gravy to moisten sufficiently to make with the hands 
into balls. Roll them in fine bread crumbs, and fry 
quickly in hot lard. If cooked too long the meat be- 
comes dry. Miss Janet Todd. 

FRIZZLED BEEF. 

One coffee-cup of very thinly shaved dried beef, 1 
sausage sliced about i inch thick. Add 1 pt. of cold 
water ; boil 2 minutes ; add 1 table-spoon of flour, butter 
half as large as an egg, 1 egg; boil 2 minutes, and 
serve. Or, take 2 cups of the beef, add 1J pts. of thin 
cream, or rich milk. Cook as above, omitting the butter 
if cream is used. "Central." 

HAM CAKES. 

Take 1 pt. bits of cold boiled ham. Chop very fine, 



36 CULINARY GEMS. 

add 1 tea-spoon of mixed mustard, 1 beaten egg, J tea- 
spoon of pepper. Mix thoroughly. Make into cakes 
with the hands, like fish cakes ; fry in ham fat or lard a 
rich brown. Lay bits of butter on hot platter before tak- 
ing up the cakes. E. 

BROILED TRIPE. 

Use honeycomb tripe. Wipe dry, cut in squares, place 
in closely woven wire broiler over a bright fire, honey- 
comb side next to fire ; broil a delicate brown on that side 
only. Place on bits of butter on hot platter ; serve im- 
mediately. S. 

FRIED TRIPE. 

Prepare as above. Fry on both sides a delicate brown 
in hot lard ; serve. S. 

FRIED TRIPE IN BATTER. 

Fry as above lightly on one side ; remove. Make a 
batter as in rule for fritters, dip in the fried squares, drop 
in hot lard, fry quickly, and serve. E. 



*^«»» 



POULTEY. 



Golden russet, juicy and tender, 

Spiciest odors burden the air ; 
Never a bird, in its feathered splendor, 

Can match this ghost in its grave-ies rare. J. M. l. 



ROAST TURKEY. 

A turkey weighing 12 or 15 lbs. roast 3 or 4 hours, 
according to age and size ; a smaller one proportionally 



k 




POULTRY. 37 

less. Take pieces of stale bread, or baker's bread, for 
dressing, about 1 loaf in quantity. Cover with cold water 
till perfectly soft, then press dry, and rub lightly into 
crumbs with the hands. Chop a 2-inch square of salt 
pork, £ an onion, and butter size of an egg to a cream. 
Throw on the crumbs 1 tea-spoon of pepper, 1 dessert- 
spoon of salt, 1 table-spoon of sifted sage leaves, 1 table- 
spoon of thyme ; sweet marjoram and chopped parsley 
can be added, if liked. Mix all together ,by shaking it 
up and turning it over very lightly with the hands, just 
enough to mix, or it will be close and solid when baked. 
After washing the turkey, wipe the inside of the body dry 
as possible with a cloth, fill with the dressing, sew up the 
gashes, tie the wings and legs down close to the body, 
and the neck back under the wing. Place in dripping- 
pan with about J of an inch of water ; bake slowly. 
Baste very frequently with the drippings, adding more 
hot water as it evaporates ; the last J hour baste with 1 
table-spoon of salt in i pt. of hot water. Boil the giblets 
in water to cover while the turkey is roasting, till very 
tender. Prepare in the same manner to boil or steam f 
cooking till a fork will slip in the breast easily. Serve 
with cranberry jelly or sauce. E. 

GRAVY FOR POULTRY. 

Chop the gizzard and heart very fine ; place liver on 
platter, after browning quickly, to serve with the fowls. 
Take the water giblets were boiled in ; after boiling it 
down to 1 cupful, thicken with 1 table-spoon of lightly 
browned flour, rubbed smooth in piece of butter size of a 
walnut. Boil slowly 5 minutes ; keep hot. When tur- 
key is taken up, skim off nearly all the oil from drippings > 



38 . CULINARY GEMS. 

and add sufficient drippings to the gravy to make 1 pt. 
Stir thoroughly, adding salt, if needed ; serve hot, in one 
of French's pretty dishes. E. 

ROAST CHICKEN. 

Prepare same as roast turkey. Roast 1J hours, or till 
tender ; steam or boil gently same length of time. Serve 
as roast turkey, with jelly or sauce. S. 

t 
ROAST GOOSE AND DUCK. 

Make the dressing of fresh boiled potatoes and 1 onion ; 
mash together till very light and free from lumps ; season 
with salt and pepper to taste, and piece of butter size of 
an egg. Roast slowly 2 hours, basting frequently. One- 
half hour before it is done, remove from the oven, rub 
with butter and salt, and dredge lightly with flour ; re- 
turn, brown without basting. Gravy as for turkey. 
Serve with hot roasted sour apples, or acid jellies. E. 

FRICASSEED CHICKENS. 

Cut up the chicken. Put to boil in cold water to cover, 
with 2 tiny slices of salt pork. Boil 1 hour, if young ; 2 
to 3, if a fowl (which is better for fricassee). When half 
cooked, add 1 table-spoon of salt. Boil till a fork will 
slip through the meat easily. Reduce the water by boil- 
ing to 1 qt., if there is more ; after removing the chicken, 
add i cup of flour, more salt, if needed. Boil 5 minutes, 
add butter to taste. Strain over the chicken, placed upoi 
hot split baking powder biscuit, and serve. If dumpling 
are preferred, lay on the top of chicken. E. 



i< < • 



POULTRY; 39 

FRIED CHICKEN. 

Prepare and cook as above till tender. Dip in egg, roll 
in sifted cracker crumbs, fry in hot lard. Add 1 tea-spoon 
of flour to i cup of the water boiled in. Boil 5 minutes, 
salt and pepper to taste, add £ cup of cream. Pour upon 
platter, place upon it the chicken ; serve immediately. 

E. 

BROILED CHICKEN. 

Split through the back, spread out flat. If very tender, 
place in folding wire broiler over a moderate fire, the in- 
side next the fire. Broil, without turning, 20 minutes ; 
turn, sprinkle on £ tea-spoon of salt, broil till the skin is 
a delicate, even brown, rub over with butter, and serve. 
If the chicken should seem tough (the skin not break 
easily by pressing back a wing) , place in a spider, on a 
small wire frame made 'for tea-stand, fill the spider about 
J full of water. Cover and boil till nearly done, about J 
of an hour. If allowed to get tender, it does not brown 
well. Remove, sprinkle the inside with salt, rub the skin 
with butter, place in wire broiler. Set it up on the grate 
in hot oven, over a tin plate. Brown very quickly, the 
skin side up. Add J cup of cream or milk to the cup of 
liquid in spider ; if milk, use butter to taste. Add £ tea- 
spoon of salt, boil, and add 1 tea-spoon of flour. Boil 3 
minutes, pour on hot platter, place the chicken upon it, 
and serve. E. 

CHICKEN TOAST. 

Take the remains of a cold roast or boiled chicken and 
chop up fine, put in a saucepan, season with salt, pepper, 
and the round of an onion finely minced ; add a small 
piece of butter, one table-spoonful of cream and just 



LTLINAItr OEMS. 

;r the chicken ; simmer t 
er the meat 2 or 3 raw ej 
>n nicely buttered toast, 

:hicken pie. 

water to cover ; add 1 tal 
When tender, remove tl 
lish. Add 1 table-spoon 
ad pepper to taste, buttei 
i ; let it cool while makinj 
I small cup butter, 1 sma 
- second time, with 2j full 
or baking powder. Rut 
the Hour, shake it all to{ 
ufficiently to roll out. 1 

about \ inch thick, to 1 
an inch and a half over tl 
o crust. Place the chic 

gravy to cover the chic 
tt just the size of the dii 
t-cutter, to permit gases 

wet the edge, fold the 1 
ugh to make it stick. £ 
)11 the centre piece, cut o 
e. Spread very soft butt 
i flour, pat it lightly to s 
ith cold water. Bake til 
t the appearance of puff [ 
richness. 

LIED CHICKEN. 

n, 1 dessert-spoon salt ; 



EGGS. 41 

in 3 qts. cold water [add more, if necessary, while boil- 
ing] , boil slowly till very tender. Take it up ; remove 
all the bones, carefully slipping them from the meat, put 
the bones back in the water, add 2 table-spoons juice of 
onion [grated, strained], 4 whole cloves, J tea-spoon cay- 
enne pepper. Boil rapidly till reduced £ from first, re- 
move from the fire ; let it stand a moment, remove bones, 
carefully skim off all the fat possible, add juice of £ 
lemon, strain all through napkin, add £ box gelatine 
previously dissolved in warm water to cover. Cut chicken 
across much as possible in slices when cold, then arrange 
in dish in layers with 2 or 3 hard boiled eggs cut in slices, 
pour over the jelly, and set in cold place till next day. 



4 ^»»» 



EGGS. 



DELICATE CREAMED EGGS. 

Have a deep saucepan of boiling water. Put the eggs 
in carefully, not to crack them. Cover the pan closely, 
set where it will keep hot, but not boil; 6 minutes will 
set them thick, but allow a minute or two more, if you 
like them harder. Very delicate, and easily digested. 
Serve immediately. E. 

DROPPED EGGS. 

Have a shallow saucepan of boiling water. Break the 
eggs into a saucer, previously dipped in cold water. Slip 
the eggs into the saucepan, sprinkle salt over them. Re- 



42 CULINARY GEMS. 

move carefully, when the white is set, with a akin 
place on delicately browned buttered toast, and s 

BAKED EGGS. 
Break the eggs upon a buttered pan, carefully, n 
break the yolks. Place in a quick oven till the wh 
set. Remove, separate them with a knife, and slip 
upon a hot buttered platter, or on toast. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Beat together 5 eggs. Turn into a hot pan, w: 
table-spoon of melted butter, stir quickly over a hot 
and serve. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Beat 4 eggs separately. Stir into them j cup of 
cream, J tea-spoon of salt. Put them into a pail in i 
of boiling water, stir till it thickens, and serve. Mil] 
be used instead of cream, and add 1 table-spoon of m 
butter. 

OMELETTE. 

Beat 5 eggs separately. Add J cup of cream, or 
milk, 1 heaping tea-spoon corn starch or flour. 
cream and corn starch to yolks, mix lightly, add wl 
barely mix. Pour immediately into hot buttered sp 
and set on grate in moderate oven till brown. Sen 
hot plate, sprinkled with $ tea-spoon of salt. This 
will make 2 in common spider. Shake them a little 
when set, fold together plain, or with finely chopped 
between. 

CODFISH OMELETTE. 

Pick up 1 cup of salt codfish ; soak over night in 



'd 



VEGETABLES. 43 

water enough to cover. Press dry, and chop very fine ; 
then put it in 3 gills of milk, and let it come to a boil. 
Stir 1 table-spoon of flour in butter half as large as an 
egg ; stir in thoroughly, then add 3 eggs well beaten sep- 
arately. Turn into a buttered dish [French has them] , 

set in a hot oven till it rises and browns over the top. 

E. 
FRIARS' OMELETTE. 

Stew 6 large apples as for apple sauce. Stir in when 
cooked and still warm, butter \ size of an egg, 1 cup 
sugar. When cold, stir in 3 well beaten eggs and juice 
of a lemon. Put a small piece of butter in frying-pan ; 
when hot, throw in a handful of bread crumbs, stir until 
a light brown. Butter a mold, sprinkle on all the bread 
crumbs that will adhere to bottom and sides, then put in 
the apple, sprinkle over with crumbs. Bake 15 or 20 
minutes. Turn out and sift over sugar. Mrs. Nason. 



■»■»»»» 



DIRECTIONS FOR COOKING VEGETABLES. 

Summer vegetables should be cooked the same day they 
are taken from the garden, if possible ; if not, keep in the 
cellar or ice-box till ready for use. New Potatoes 
should have the skin carefully scraped off before cooking, 
as much of the best part of the potato clings to the skin, 
and is lost if done after boiling. Boil from 20 to 30 
minutes, according to size ; put to boil in cold water. oyer 
a quick fire. When half cooked, add 1 table-spoon of 
salt to 1 doz. Watch closely, and remove as soon as 
done. Drain dry, and let them remain in hot kettle till 
ready for the table. Old Potatoes pare very thin, care- 



44 



CULINARY GEMS. 



fully removing the eyes. If very old, pare them and 
cover with cold water for 15 minutes. Put to. boil in 
cold water; boil rapidly 10 minutes, then drain off the 
water, add boiling water, and cook till done. Remove 
as soon as done, as it spoils them to lie a moment in the 
water afterwards. Drain dry, and leave in hot kettle till 
ready for the table. To mash them, add butter and salt 
to taste, milk to moisten. Mash and work till light and 
creamy. Serve immediately. If liked, add the white of 
an egg beaten to a froth, spread over the top, and browned 
quickly in the top of oven, after it is dished. Peas and 
String Beans should be prepared for cooking as soon as 
possible after gathered. Sprinkle with cold water, and 
keep cool till ready to cook. Put to boil in cold water. 
Boil peas from 20 to 30 minutes ; if not very young, add 
soda as large as a pea a few minutes before they are 
done. Boil in barely water to cover, and cook away as 
much as possible before serving. Cook with small slice 
of salt pork. If liked dry, drain off all the water, pour 
in hot dish, butter and salt to taste. String beans should 
boil 2 hours, or till very tender, with small slice of salt 
pork. Strain, and add \ cup of hot cream, with salt and 
butter to taste. Turnips should be put to boil in boiling 
water ; cook about 1 hour. Serve in half slices, or mashed. 
Cabbage should be quartered, and lie 1 hour in salted 
water before cooking. Boil 1J hours. Or, chop or shave 
fine, boil in barely water to cover till tender ; then add 
salt, butter, and a little vinegar to taste. Boil a few 
minutes longer, and serve. New Beets will boil in 
hours ; old ones require from 4 to 5. Do not scrape c 
cut them ; simply wash perfectly clean. Put to boil ] 
cold water. Slip the skins off in cold water quickly wi 



VEGETABLES. 45 

the hands when done. Slice thin with a sharp knife, 
sprinkle salt and rub a little butter on each slice ; serve 
immediately. Onions peeled under cold water will not 

Effect the eyes or hands unpleasantly. When new, put to 
boil in plenty of cold water ; cook 1 hour, till tender. 
Drain off the water carefully,* not to break them ; add 1 
taWe-spoon of salt to 1 doz. when half done. Add J cup 
of hot, thick cream before serving, and butter to taste. 
If old, let them lie 15 minutes in cold water after peeling. 
Boil 2 hours. Tomatoes stewed : Pour boiling water 
over them till the skin cracks. Remove, peel, and stew 
them as thick as desired. Season with salt, pepper,, sugar 
and butter to taste. Tomatoes sliced should be peeled 
cold with a sharp knife ; slice J inch thick around. Let 
each one season at the table to suit the taste. If liked, 
slice young onions in mere shavings in the dish, in alter- 
nate layers with tomatoes. Cucumbers should be very 
fresh. Pare, and slice thin, and let them lie in cold water 
15 minutes before serving. Prepare withdiced onions, as 
tomatoes, if liked. Sweet Corn will cook in 20 minutes, 
if young ; if not, cook till tender, if at all. Serve hot in 
a napkin. Or, cut the kernels down through the centre, 

. scrape out the inside carefully, add £ cup hot cream, 
butter and salt to taste ; serve immediately. Asparagus 
should be tied in bunches, after washing and'cutting off 
the white, tough ends, and placed on'the ice till ready to 
cook. Put to boil in cold water, barely enough to cover ; 
boil from 20 to 30 minutes. As soon as tender, remove 
from the kettle. Place carefully upon buttered toast. 
Pour over a little hot cream, #or the water boiled in, to 
moisten toast slightly. Sprinkle over a little salt and 
pepper to taste. Garnish with sliced boiled egg. Spin- 



46 CULINARY GEMS. 

aoh : Cut the leaves close to the roots ; examine each 
leaf. Place in steamer, under the cold water faucet ; let 
the water run upon it with full force, turning and shaking 
it up with meat fork till perfectly free from sand. Put to' 
boil with small slice of salt pork in cold water to cover ; 
boil from 30 minutes to 1 hour. Salt to taste, drain, 
press dry, add J cup of warm, thick cream. Garnish 
with sliced boiled egg. Dandelions and other Greens 
cut and clean in the same way. Boil from 1 to 2 hours 
with ham or pork, or both, boiling the ham the required 
time ; and skim off fat before adding greens. When 
done, drain dry. " E. 

SUCCOTASH. 

One pt. of shelled beans, put to boil in cold water. 
Boil 1 hour, if tender ; if not, boil 2 ; with 2-inch square 
of salt pork. Cut the corn from 1 doz. ears of sweet 
corn ; boil the cobs 1 hour with the beans. When beans 
are cooked, add the corn ; boil 20 minutes, having barely 
water to cover. Add salt to taste, and 1 table-spoon of 
sugar ; butter to taste. If preferred, drain off the water 
cooked in, add 1 cup of cream, or rich milk, butter and 
salt to taste. E. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

One qt. can tomatoes. Put a layer in earthen dish, 
strew bits of butter over it, with salt and pepper, then put 
a layer of bread crumbs, or rolled cracker, then tomatoes ; 
and so on, till tomatoes are used. Bake f of an hour. 

Mrs. Henry Holland 

SCALLOPED EGG-PLANT. 
Peel the plant, cut in slices and boil until soft, the 



/ 



♦ VEGETABLES. 47 

mash, butter a dish, put in a layer of bread crumbs, then 
plant ; season with bits of butter, pepper and salt, and so 
on in layers till used up ; bread crumbs last. Bake till 
well browned. S. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Boil 6 common sized potatoes, slice thin and cut into 
small squares ; 1 pt. milk, 1 small onion, 1 tea-spoon 
flour rubbed smooth in little cold milk. Boil together, 
cover the bottom of a small baking dish [one of French's] 
-with a layer of the potatoes, season with bits of butter, 
salt and pepper, then another layer, and so on till the 
dish is filled ; pour over it the boiled milk after removing 
the onion, and bake about £ hour. v 

Miss Frances Fowler. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

A good way to warm over cold potatoes is to first chop 
them, not too fine ; heat some butter in a frying pan, put 
the potatoes in a few minutes ; just before taking them 
from the fire, stir in some well beaten eggs ; serve hot ; 
garnish with parsley. S. 

CREAMED POTATOES. 

One large table-spoon of butter, 1 heaping tea-spoon of 
flour, 1 cup cold milk, salt and pepper to taste. Put but- 
ter and flour in spider together; cook smooth, but not 
brown; add milk gradually. Let it boil up once, stir- 
ring constantly. Add 1 scant pt. of small bits cold 
boiled potato, season well with salt, then cook slowly 4 
or 5 minutes. If too moist, cook a little longer. Serve 
hot. Miss Parloa, by Mrs. D. N. Lane. 



CULINARY GEMS. 



DUCHESS POTATOES. 



Boil 1 qt. potatoes and mash through a colandt 
with them 1 full table-spoon butter, 1 level te 
salt, i pepper, yolks 2 eggs. Turn this on a pi: 
with a knife make into cakes 2 inches long, 1 wide 
lay them on a buttered tin, brush over the top wil 
of egg, and color them golden brown in quick ov< 
Mrs. L. A. 

PLAIN MACARONI. 
Put the amount required to boil in boiling wa 
salt to make the water pretty salt, boil till very 
Drain dry, put in buttered pudding dish, cover wr 
add bits of butter and pepper to taste ; cover will 
cheese, or fine cracker crumbs. Bake slowly 1 h 

OYSTER MACARONI. 
Boil the macaroni in a cloth to keep it straight, 
layer in a dish, season with pepper, salt and butt 
a layer of oysters, then a layer of macaroni; ai 
until the dish is full. Mix some grated bread 
beaten egg ; spread over the top and bake. 

Mrs. Wm. H. 

BOILED RICE. 
Wash free from the flour 1 cup rice, then put 
in 2j cups cold water, 1 tea-spoon salt. Cover 
cIobc, and place over a brisk fire ; boil 10 minutj 
off most of the water, and set on back range to s 
dry 15 minutes. "VlKGl 



BREAD. 49 



BEEAD. 



She needeth least, who kneadeth best, 

These rules which we shall tell ; 
Who kneadeth ill, shall need them more 

Than she who kneadeth well. f. p. 



To make good bread should be the highest aim of 
every cook, that it may be in truth the "staff of life." To 
insure this, several conditions are absolutely necessary : 
Firstly, the flour should be the nicest quality, and there 
is nothing better than "Pillsbury's best." It may cost 
more money, but it is the cheapest in the end, as it will 
make many more loaves of the best bread than any brand 
of cheaper flour. Secondly, the yeast should be fresh and 
strong. We prefer Fleischmann & Co.'s compressed 
yeast, as we have used it several years, and never a sug- 
gestion of sour bread, even in the hottest season, when 
it has been a positive fact with other experiments. It is 
specially invaluable at the seaside during the summer 
months. Thirdly, if milk is used, it should be new, if 
possible; if the cream is removed, it should be scalded, 
and be sure that it is perfectly sweet. Fourthly, care 
should be taken that the bread does not get too light in 
either risings ; then, it is very important that it should 
be thoroughly kneaded without extra flour ; and lastly, 
baked in a uniformly heated oven. Ed. 

WHITE BREAD. 

Three pts. of Pillsbury's best flour. Let it stand in a 
warm place over night, where it will get dry and light. 



50 



CULINARY GEMS. 



In the morning make a sponge of £ cake of Fleischmann 
& Co.'s compressed yeast, $ cup of the flour, sufficient 
milk to wet it. Let it rise till it is ready to fall. One 
table-spoon of granulated sugar, 1 tea-spoon salt, piece 
of lard size of a walnut, 1£ pts. of new, warm milk, or 
enough to mix the flour into a dough as soft as can be 
easily kneaded. Mix all together very thoroughly, and 
knead 10 minutes ; let it rise till one-half as large again 
as when mixed. Knead 5 minutes more in the pan ; let 
it rise till twice as large. Knead 10 minutes, using no 
flour, and form into 1 large double loaf, or 2 small ones ; 
let it rise about 30 minutes. Bake in moderate oven 1 
hour, if double loaf; f , if small ones. If the bread is 
mixed at 7 o'clock, it can easily be baked before dinner, 
and is much nicer and less likely to get sour than if mixed 
over night. There is no article of diet that pays so well 
for a little extra care and labor, as bread. One secret of 
deliciously light bread is in drying the flour before mix- 
ing. E. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

One qt. of W. W. Carr's Graham flour, a little less 
than 1 pt. of wheat flour, £ cake of Fleischmann & Co.'s 
yeast risen in £ cup of flour, £ cup granulated sugar, 1 
tea-spoon salt. Mix, and beat it 15 minutes ; put in 
pans ; let it rise very light. Bake in a very slow oven 
l£ hours. If risen over night, let it stand in a tempera- 
ture not above 50°. E. 

OATMEAL BREAD. 

Boil 1 cup oatmeal in 3 J cups water, 1 small tea-spoon 
salt, 3 hours ; then add 2J cups new milk. When luke- 
warm, add 1£ pts. wheat flour, mix very thoroughly with 



TT 



BREAD. 51 

£ cup yeast ; put in 2 large bread pans. When very light, 
bake in moderate oven 45 minutes. Cover the loaves with 
paper the first 20 minutes. Miss C. A. Greene. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Two cups W. W^Carr's celebrated Graham flour, 1 cup 
wheat flour, 1 sour milk, 1 water, 2 table-spoons mo- 
lasses, a little salt, 1 even tea-spoon soda. Gem pans 
should be very hot when filled. Bake in quick oven. 

Mrs. J. Q. G. 

BREAKFAST GEMS. 

One cup sugar, 1 milk, 2 flour, 2 table-spoons butter, 
\ tea-spoon ginger, 1 even full soda, 2 cream tartar; 
pans hot when filled. Mrs. J. Q. G. 

WHEAT GEMS. 

One egg, 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, \ tea-spoon salt. 
The longer it is beaten, the better. Put in hot gem pans. 

Mrs. D. Blinn. 

RYE BREAD, AS SEWING SOCIETY LIKES IT. 

For two good-sized loaves take 2 qts. rye flour and 1 
qt. wheat flour, rubbing into the flour 1 good-sized potato, 
1 table-spoon of lard, and 1 table-spoon of sugar. Mix 
with milk and water a little salt and yeast. Let it rise 
during the night, knead thoroughly, and bake for break- 
fast. A little butter rubbed over the bread while baking 
prevents hard crust. Mqs. C. H. Knowles. 

RYE BREAD. 

Three pts. of best rye flour, \ cake of Fleischmann & 
Co.'s compressed yeast in sponge, 1 pt. of new milk or 



52 



CULINARY GEMS. 



water, 1 table-spoon of granulated sugar, 1 tea-spoon salt, 
piece of lard size of a walnut. Mix in large earthen bowl 
with a knife, working and cutting it 15 minutes. Let it 
rise till one-half as large again as when mixed ; then beat 
and cut again in the bowl 10 minutes. Make 1 large 
loaf, or 2 small ones, putting the dough in the pans from 
the bowl without molding on board. Let it rise till one- 
half as large again. Bake in very moderate oven 1 hour, 
if large ; small, | of an hour. If liked, 1 coffee-cup of 

the rye can be taken out, and Indian or wheat substituted. 

E. 

STEAMED BEOWN BREAD. 

One pt. of corn meal, 1 pt. rye meal, 1 cup molasses, 
1 cup sour milk, 1 tea-spoon soda, J salt. Mix thin with 
hot water, and steam 3 hours. 

Mrs. E. H. Richardson. 

KATE'S BROWN BREAD. 

One qt. corn meal, 1 pt. rye, 1 cup molasses, 1 qt. 
cold water, 1 tea-spoon soda, 1 of salt. Steam 3 hours. 

Mrs. J. H. C. 

BAKED BROWN BREAD. . 

Scald 1 pt. of corn meal with boiling water, enough to 
make a thin batter ; add 1 cup molasses, 1 tea-spoon salt. 
When lukewarm, stir in J cup of yeast, 1 pt. rye flour, 1 
pt. wheat flour, milk enough to make a stiff batter. Fil 1 
2-qt. pan § full, wet the hand with cold water to smooth 
over the top, cover with tin plate. Let it rise till light ; 
bake, still covered, in very moderate oven, 3 hours. It is 
best baked in iron pan. Mrs. J. R. Re^d. 



.. mi 



RAISED BISCUIT. 
Three pte. of Pillsbury's best flour, £ cup eugai 
tea-spoon salt, J cake Fleischmann & Co.'s co 
yeaet, made into sponge with £ cup of the flour 
ready to fall. Add to the other ingredients, we 
pts. new, warm milk, in which put butter size ol 
Mix thoroughly, as soft as can be kneaded with 
tional flour, 10 minutes. Let it rise till one-hall 
again ; knead 10 minutes. Rise again in same v 
white of 1 or 2 egga beaten light; knead 10 
Form into 25 large, or 36 small, balls. Rise near! 
large ; bake from 20 to 30 minutes in moderate ov 

FRENCH ROLLS. 
Two qts. flour, 1 table-spoon white sugar, pice 
ter size of an egg rubbed into the flour, 1 pt. m 
and cooled, £ tea-spoon salt, J cup yeast. Mix a 
15 minutes. Let it get very light; knead agair 
utes. Let it rise again till light ; then roll the 
inch thick. Cut with large biscuit-cutter, brush ■ 
soft butter, fold together, rise again till light ; 
minutes. Makes 3 dozen. Mrs. H. B. Sti 

BUNS. 
Three-quarters of a lb. flour, J of sugar, 1 ca 
$ pt. new milk, 1 tea-spoon cinnamon or nutmeg 
very light, work in thoroughly 2 oz. butter, J 
rants. Make into balls, rise till very light, bake 
oven. Rub over with syrup when done. L. 

RUSKET. 
To 4 cups warm milk add 1 melted butter and 



54 



CULINARY GEMS. 



yeast sponge, made of £ cake of Fleischmann & Co.'s 
compressed yeast ; stir in as much flour as you can stir 
with a spoon. When light, add 2 cups sugar, 3 well- 
beaten eggs, 1 small tea-spoon of soda ; beat very light. 
Bake in small loaves when very light. 

Mrs. E. B. Gillett. 



BAKING POWDEE BISCUIT. 

One qt. pastry flour. Sift again with 2£ heaping tea- 
spoons of Cleveland's superior baking powder. [Our ex- 
perience with baking powders leads us to recommend 
Cleveland's superior baking powder, as requiring less in 
quantity, with the best results, than any other powder. — 
Eds.] Rub into i the flour piece of butter size of an egg ; 
shake the flour 'up together, add milk to make into a soft, 
rollable dough. Mix thoroughly, roll out 1 inch thick, 
c\jt large or small, to suit the taste, with cutter ; bake 20 
minutes. E. 

GRAHAM LUNCH BISCUIT. 

One and one-half pts. Graham flour, J pt. wheat flour, 
1 table-spoon sugar, 1 tea-spoon salt. Sift flour, sugar, 
salt, and 2 tea-spoons of baking powder into the Graham. 
Mix into a smooth dough, that can be easily handled. 
Turn the dough upon floured board, give it a vigorous 
kneading, roll into biscuit, wash over with milk ; bake in 
rather hot oven 30 minutes. Remove, and rub over with 
a little butter. Mrs. J. R. Reed. 

WHEAT MUFFINS. 

One coffee-cup milk, 1 egg, 1 table-spoon melted but- 
ter, 1 sugar, 2 tea-spoons Congress yeast powder, 1 



BREAD. 55 

heaping cup flour. Sift flour, sugar and yeast powder 

together. Beat the egg very light, add milk, and stir 

quickly into the dry ingredients. Makes 1 doz. Bake 

20 minutes in quick oven. This rule can be raised with 

yeast, if desired, omitting the yeast powder. 

"Central." 

SHEFFIELD MUFFINS. 

One lb. flour, 1 pt. milk, 1 large table-spoon butter, 1 
of good yeast, 2 eggs, £ tea-spoon salt. When raised T 
fry quick in rings on griddle. Mrs. Wm. G. Bates. 

RYE MUFFINS. 

Eye meal 1 pt. , wheat flour 1 pt. , milk 1 pt. , J cup 
fine granulated sugar, 1 tea-spoon salt, 4 of baking pow- 
der, 2 eggs. Put the meal in mixing bowl ; put other 
dry parts into sieve, and sift into the meal. Beat eggs 
light, add milk to them, turn upon the dry ingredients ; 
mix well, turn into buttered muffin pans. Makes 2 doz. 
Bake in hot oven 20 minutes. Graham or Indian can be 
used instead. When Indian is used, add 1 more egg. 

Miss Parloa, by Mrs. D. N. Lane. 

WAFFLES. 

One pt. sour or buttermilk, 2 eggs, 1J pts. pastry flour f 
£ tea-spoon salt, 1 soda, 1 cream-tartar, 1 table-spoon 
granulated sugar. Sift flour and all the dry parts into 
bowl together. Beat the eggs very light, separately. 
Add milk to yolks ; stir into the bowl, mix thoroughly ; 
add the whites, stir lightly. Bake in very hot irons. S. 

KAISED WAFFLES. 
Prepare as above, using sweet milk, or water ; if water , 



r-^m 



56 CULINARY GEMS. 



use 1 table-spoon lard, or butter ; and substituting £ cake 
Fleischmann & Co.'s compressed yeast for soda and cream- 
tartar. Let it rise till very light ; then add the beaten 
eggs, beating yolks in thoroughly, first ; whites lightly, 
last. Mrs. E. B. Gillett. 

SQUASH CAKE. 

One pt. flour measured before sifting, 2 tea-spoons 
Congress yeast powder, 1 table-spoon sugar, 1 melted 
butter, 1 cup cold squash sifted, small cup milk, 2 eggs, 
£ tea-spoon salt. Work the eggs, beaten light, squash 
and flour together. Then add milk. A delicious break- 
fast cake, with or without syrup. Mrs. E. T. S. 

WHEAT GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

Use sour or buttermilk, and prepare same as waffles. 
Bake in spoonfuls on hot griddle. E. 

BUCKWHEAT GRIDDLES. 

One pt. warm water, £ tea-spoon salt, 1 table-spoon 
sugar or molasses, £ cake Fleischmann & Co.'s compressed 
yeast, sufficient buckwheat flour to make a thin batter. 
Set in warm place to rise over night. In the morning 
add i tea-spoon of soda, .piece of butter, size of a walnut, 
melted. Try one ; if not perfectly sweet and light, add 
same quantity of soda again. Bake on smoking hot 
griddle. E. 

SNOW-FLAKE BREAKFAST CAKES. 

One cup sugar, 1J of flour, £ milk, l£ tea-spoons bak- 
ing powder, 3 table-spoons melted butter, 3 eggs. Bake 
in muffin rings. Mrs. L. R. Norton. 



BREAD. 57 

DELICIOUS CORN CAKE. 

Two cups flour, 2 heaping table-spoons corn meal, 1 of 
sugar, 2 tea-spoons Congress yeast powder, 1 butter, J 
salt, 2 eggs, milk to thin. Mrs. L. A. S. 

CORN CAKE. 

One pt. meal, 1 flour, 1 sweet milk, 1 small tea-spoon 
salt, i cup granulated sugar, 3 tea-spoons baking powder, 
3 eggs. Sift all the dry ingredients together. Beat the 
eggs to a stiff froth, separately ; add yolks to milk, mix 
thoroughly with the flour, add the whites. Bake in muffin 
pans or sheet J hour, Mrs. E. B. Abbe. 

CORN CAKE. 

One cup meal, 1 flour, 1 milk, 1 egg, 1 table-spoon of 
granulated sugar, 1$ tea-spoons Cleveland's superior bak- 
ing powder. Sift flour, sugar, and baking powder into 
meal ; beat the egg very light, add to the milk, stir quickly 
into the bowl and bake J hour in sheet ; 20 minutes in 1 
doz. muffins. E. 

STOCKBRIDGE CAKE. 

Four level table-spoons corn meal stirred into 1 pt. 
boiling milk. Add 1 tea-spoon butter, 1 of sugar, pinch 
salt. Then beat the yolks 3 eggs, then the whites ; add 
them to the meal and milk. Bake in a deep buttered 
dish 20 to 30 minutes. Mrs. Samuel Fowler. 

BREAKFAST PUFFS. 

• ■ 

One pt. sour milk, 1 tea-spoon soda, 1 egg well beaten, 
flour to make just stiff enough to roll as thin as wafers, 
cut round. Fry like doughnuts. Eat hot with syrup. 

Mrs. E. B. Gillette. 



58 CULINARY GEMS. 



PASTET. 



PUFF PASTE. 



One qt. flour, 2 cups butter, 1 table-spoon salt, 1 pow- 
dered sugar. Wash butter in cold water till light and 
waxy, divide in two parts, and set on the ice to cool. 
When perfectly cold, rub J of the butter in the flour, mix 
with 1£ cups ice-water with a knife. Eoll this on the 
board in square form, add remainder of butter in small 
lumps, dredge with very little flour. Fold over the four 
edges to meet in the middle ; then fold one half upon the 
other to keep the air in. Pound lightly with the pin ; 
roll out and fold as before. Do this three times in all ; 
then roll up and place on the ice an hour or more. When 
ready to cover the pie, cut a piece from the end, just 
enough to cover the pie; sprinkle a very little flour on 
board, flour the pin. Eoll from you and towards your 
left hand very lightly till right size ; bake immediately. 

Miss Parloa, 
Mrs. E. B. Abbe. 

PLAIN SUET AND BUTTER PASTE. 

We think this more delicate and wholesome than lard. 
The expense is about the same. Get the soft leaf of beef 
suet ; try like leaf of pork. It will keep a year. To 1 
qt. flour rub in £ cup suet, 1 cup butter (it will be lighter 
if salt is worked out of butter) . If fresh butter, 1 tea- 
spoon salt ; use none otherwise. Mix lightly with cold 
water. When the top crust is rolled, spread very thin 
with very soft butter, dredge with flour, pat it in with 



r 

tin 



5H 



the hands. Lay on the pie, finish to bake ; then pour 
cold water over it, to wet the flour. Bake in quick oven 
at first ; then slower to cook fruit in pie. This gives the 
appearance of puff paste, without the unwholesome rich- 
ness. This rule can be used with same quantity of lard 
as suet and butter, if preferred. Dr. Greene, of Castile, 
says apple pies after this rule are as wholesome as bread, 
butter, and apple-sauce. E. 

MINCE PIES. 
Boil beef used for round steak, or a shoulder piece, 6 
! hours. Remove (save the stock for other purposes) , free 
from bone, fat and gristle, chop very fine. To 1 measure 
of the chopped meat add 2 of chopped sour apple, J of 
chopped suet, 2 of sweet cider, 1 of seeded raisins, the 
grated rind and juice of 1 lemon. Mix all together. Let 
it come to a boil in porcelain kettle ; then sweeten and 
spice to suit the taste, using 1 measure of sugar to J of 
molasses till sweet enough. [Tastes vary ao much that 
it is frequently necessary that the discretion of the cook 
shall regulate the amount of sweets and spices to be used.] 
Allow about i cup of cinnamon to 8 qts. of the mince, 
and J cup salt. Boil 15 minutes slowly, taking care not 
to scorch. If not moist enough, add more cider. Boil 
45 minutes, pour into stone jars, cover close. Will keep 
in a very cold place all winter. When the pies are filled, 
add a few bits of butter, more raisins, if needed, and trifle 
of nutmeg. Bake just enough to cook the crust till it 
will slip on plate. E. 

SUSAN'S MINCE PIES. 
Two lbs. beef, 4 of apples, 3 raisins, 2 sugar, 1 citron, 



CULINAET OEMS. 



3 pts. cranberries, 1 qt. molasses, 1 table-spoon cloves, 
cinnamon and nutmeg each, salt to taste. Add little bit* 
of butter to each pie when filled. Mrs. L. A. M. 

MOCK MINCE PIES. 
Two pounded crackers, £ cup molasses, J sugar, £ vin- 
egar) & boiling water, J chopped seeded raisins, 1 tea- 
spoon cinnamon, J of cloves, J nutmeg, 1 tea-spoon salt. 
Boil all together 5 minutes. Remove, add piece of buttei 
half as large as an egg, 2 well-beaten eggs. Makes 2 
pies. Fill and bake as other mince pies. Very nice. 

Mrs. Oslo Breckinruxje. 

DELICATE APPLE PIE. 
Line the plate with cruet, fill with quartered sour, juicy 
apples ; lay on lightly the buttered top crust, without 
pressing edges or cutting holes ; wet with cold water. 
Bake quickly at first, then slowly % of an hour. Remove 
the top crust while hot, separating carefully with a knife 
from under crust, stir in piece of butter size of a walnut, 
sugar to taste, grate over nutmeg, lay back the cover ; 
Berve while warm. The same can be seasoned with 1 cup 
sugar and sprinkling of cinnamon before baked. E. 

APPLE CUSTAKD PIE. 
Stew juicy, tart apples, sift, add sugar to make very 
sweet. Line the deep pie plate with crust, build up a 
little edge, fill nearly half full with the apple, grate over a 
little nutmeg. Fill the plate with custard, made of 1 pt 
rich, warm milk, 3 eggs, J tea-spoon corn starch, salt am 
sugar to taste. Bake till the custard is firm in the centei 
Chestnut St. 






PASTRY. 61 

MOCK CREAM PIE. 

One pt. milk, 1 egg, 4 table-spoons sugar, 2 flour, wet 
with a little of the milk. Boil the milk in kettle of water, 
add flour, sugar, egg well-beaten, and a little salt. Re- 
move when thick. Bake 2 rich crusts ; sprinkle flour be- 
tween to keep from sticking ;• fill with the cream when 
cold, flavored with lemon. Or., omit the top crust, cover 
with light frosting, and brown quickly. 

Mrs. Orlo Breckinridge. 

PEACH PIE. 

Select mellow, juicy peaches. Wash off the fur, place 
them in a deep plate, lined with crust. Make 2 layers ; 
strew a thick layer of sugar over each, also 1 tea-spoon 
water and sprinkling of flour. Cover with a thick puff 
crust, and bake about 1 hour. Mrs. L. F. T. 

FROSTED LEMON PIE. 

One cup water, 1 sugar, 1 table-spoon butter, 1 corn 
starch, grated rind and juice of 1 lemon. Boil all together 
till thick ; remove, add 1 egg, beaten very light. Cover 
the plate with crust, fill with the lemon ; bake in quick 
oven just enough to cook the crust. Remove, beat the 
whites of 4 eggs to a dry froth, add 2 table-spoons pow- 
dered sugar; pile on the leynaon in spoonfuls. Brown 
lightly in quick oven. Mrs. F. A. Snow. 

LEMON PIE WITH CRUST. 

The juice and grated peel of 1 lemon, butter size of 
walnut, 1 table-spoon corn starch. Mix smoothly, add 1 
cup boiling* water ; then £ cup sugar and 1 egg, beaten 



62 CULINARY GEMS. 

very light together. Bake in deep plate, lined w 
covered with thin puff paste. 

Mks. E. E. Van 

COCOANUT PIE. 
Grate a cocoanut, add the milk. Boil 1 qt. i 
pour upon it ; add 4 egga, beaten very light, wit! 
cup sugar, 2 table-spoons rose-water, 1 table-spoi 
butter, i tea-spoon salt. Line 2 deep plates 
crust. Bake like squash pie till firm. 

Mrs. E. B. < 

SQUASH PIES. 
One pt. squash when sifted, 1 cup sugar, J ; 
salt, same of ginger. Beat all together ; add 
eggs, 1 pt. milk. Makes 2 pies. 

OLD FASHIONED PUMPKIN PIE 

One pt. pumpkin, 1 qt. scalded milk, 2 eg] 

sugar, J of molasses, ginger and salt to taste. 

pies. S. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

Remove the peel, chop fine, fill the crust. 1 ci 

small piece of butter. Grate a little nutmeg 

sprinkle with flour, cover with crust, and bake. 

I 






CAKE. 63 

CAKE. 

" SOCIETY" LOAF CAKE. 

Six lbs. flour, 4 of sugar, 2 butter, 8 eggs, 6 nutmegs, 
1 wine-glass of rose water, 1 of orange juice and grated 
peel, or other flavoring to suit the taste. Rub J of the 
butter into the flour and mix with new milk as for biscuit, 
adding 2 cakes Fleischmann's yeast. When perfectly 
light, cream the butter, then work butter and sugar 
[coffee] together, then eggs beaten together till stiff, and 
the spice. Work all together thoroughly; rise again, 
their add flavoring, and 2 lbs. seeded raisins, \ of citrbn, 
\ tea-spoon soda. Work thoroughly; put in 9 2-qt. 
pans. Let it stand 1 hour, and bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. A. G. Chadwick. 

DOUGH CAKE. 

Three cups dough, 1 butter, 2 sugar, 3 eggs, £ tea- 
spoon soda. Makes 2 loaves. Mrs. E. E. Barr. 

EMPEESS CAKE. 

One and one-half cups granulated sugar, § butter, 1 
milk, 3 very full flour, § seeded raisins, 1 beaten egg, \ 
tea-spoon soda, 1 cream-tartar, | of a nutmeg. Two 
loaves. E. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One lb. raisins, 1 currants, J citron, § sugar, J butter, 
£ flour, 6 eggs, 2 dessert-spoons cinnamon, 2 cloves, 2 
mace, 2 nutmeg, 1 wine-glass coffee, 1 orange juice, and 
peel of i lemon, 2 table-spoons molasses. Chop the 
raisins after seeding, mix with the currants, roll in flour, 



JV 



64 CULINARY GEMS. 

stir in last. Put in the citron after cake is in pans. One 
loaf in 4-qt. pan ; bake 2 hours with slow fire. 

Mrs. H. W. Bates. 

DUCHESS CAKE. 

One and one-half cups sugar, § of butter, 1 milk, 3 
flour, 1 chopped raisins, 1 currants, £ chopped citron, 1 
tea-spoon cream-tartar, £ of soda, 2 of molasses, 1 of 
cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg. Mrs. J. K. W. 

FKENCH LOAF CAKE. 

One lb. flour, £ butter, 1 sugar, 1 raisins, 5 eggs, 1 cup 
new milk. Mrs. N. T. Leonarb. 

BLACK CAKE. 

One cup brown sugar, £ butter, § sweet milk, 2 flour, 
1 tea-spoon cream-tartar, £ soda, 1 cinnamon, 1 allspice, 
1 cloves, yolks 2 eggs, § cup chopped seeded raisins. E. 

CINNAMON CAKE. 

One cup sugar, f molasses, 1 butter, 1£ flour, £ warm 
water, l£ table-spoons cinnamon, 2 even tea-spoons soda. 

Mrs. A. J. Titsworth. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One and one-half cups brown sugar, 1 molasses, 1 but- 
ter, 1 strong hot coffee, 4 cups flour, 1 raisins, 1 tea-spoon 
soda, 2 cream-tartar, 1 egg, £ tea-spoon cloves, 1 cinna- 
mon, £ allspice, £ a nutmeg. Two cards. E. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One and one-half cups sugar, £ butter, £ milk, 2 flour, 
whites 5 eggs, 1£ tea-spoons Cleveland's superior baking 



_: ^ 



CAKE. 05 

ike in 4 layers ; 2 with 4 tea-spoons chocolate 
Cream : One cup milk, 1 sugar, 2 table- 
starch, yolks 6 eggs, 1 square of chocolate 
i all together, and cook till thick. Spread 
jetween layers and over the top. S. 

CKEAM CAKES. 
oiling water, J cup butter, 1 of flour. When 
stir in butter ; when butter is melted, stir in 
.ickly and smoothly till it cleaves from the 
t away to cool while 4 eggs are being well 
; in the eggs, drop from the point of a spoon- 
e in an intensely hot oven \ hour. Cream 
;e a custard of 1 pt. milk, 2 eggs, 1 cup 
le-spoona Duryea's corn starch ; flavor with 
the cakes very gradually, then split and fill 
;m. Miss Frances Morse. 

PRINCE OF WALES CAKE. 

: One cup sugar, £ butter, 2 flour, £ sour 
ped seeded raisins, 1 table-spoon molasses, 
a, 1 tea-spoon soda, 1 cinnamon, \ cloves, 1 
r hite part : One cup sugar, £ butter, 1 flour, 

, J sweet milk, 3 eggs, 1J tea-spoons Cleve- 
ior baking powder. Bake both like jelly 
together with icing of lemon or orange, in 
ers of light and dark. Castile. 

)US FILLING FOR LAYER CAKE, 
bananas thin, sprinkle powdered sugar over 
' should not be prepared over an hour before 
ired, as they become discolored by standing 

S. 



CULINARY GEMS. 



RIBBON JELLY CAKE. 



Light part : Two cups sugar, J butter, 1 milk 
3 eggs, 2 tea-spoons Cleveland's superior baking 
Dark part : Take J of the light part, add J tea-sj 
namon, J cloves, J allspice, 1 table-spoon molasf 
of butter size of walnut. Bake the light pa 
layers; dark part for 1. Put together, dar! 
middle, with jelly. Mrs. Dbmsison ] 

CREAM LAYER CAKE. 
One cup sugar, 3 of milk, 1J of flour, 2 tab] 
soft butter, 1 tea-spoon cream-tartar, $ soda. 

1 cup milk, 1 table-spoon flour, 2 of sugar, 1 e£ 
salt, flavor to taste. Mrs. James Nobl 

LEMON ICING. 
One cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 grated lemon peel, 
juice ; add 1 table-spoon butter. Boil all togf 
thick. Spreads 4 layers. Mrs. L. R. No 

ORANGE CAKE. 
Two cups sugar, 2 of flour, J water, yolks 
whites of 3, juice and rind of 1 orange, 2 tea-f 
Congress yeast powder. Bake from 30 to 40 

2 common sized loaves. Frosting : Whites ol 
beaten stiff with sugar ; add juice and grated i 
orange. Mrs. S. \ 

ORANGE CAKE. 
. Two. cups sugar, butter J as large as an eg 
milk, 3 cups flour, 3 eggs, J tea-spoon soda, ] 
tartar. Bake in 4 layers. Icing : Grated peel t 



r 



CASE. 67 

of 1 orange, juice of £ lemon, S cup powdered sugar, 
beaten whites of 2 eggs. Beat all together to a stiff 
froth ; add more sugar if not stiff enough. 

Miss Fanny Ione Abbe. 

MRS. LOCKWOOD'S COCOANUT CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, 1 of butter ; cream the butter, then 
add gradually the sugar, then 4 eggs beaten very light 
separately, 1 cup milk, 3 of flour, 3 tea-spoons baking 
powder. Bake in 5 layers. Frosting: Two whites of 

eggs, sugar to make slightly stiff; spread each layer thin, 
then sprinkle freely with cocoa nut, top the same. 

* COCOANUT CAKE. 

One and one-fourth cups sugar, J butter, | sweet milk, 
1 pt. flour, 1 grated cocoamit and the milk, whites 4 eggs, 
1 tea-spoon cream-tartar, J soda. Bake in 5 layers. 
Icing : One cup of the grated cocoanut, £ sugar, 2 eggs, 
juice and grated peel of 1 lemon. Boil in pail in kettle 
of water till thick, stirring constantly. Cool, and spread 
the layers. Mrs. J. F. Fowler. 

ALMOND CREAM CAKE. 

Two cups -sugar, 1 butter, 3 flour, j milk, whites 8 
eggs, 1 tea-spoon cream-tartar, £ soda dissolved in milk, 
1 tea-spoon almond extract ; bake in 4 layers. Cream : 
Whip 1 cup thick cream to stiff froth with Dover egg- 
beater, 1 cup powdered sugar, 1 cup blanched almonds 
(24) chopped very fine, whites 3 eggs, 2 tea-spoons va- 
nilla. Spread when cake is cold. 

Mrs. D. L. Gillett. 



CULINARY GEMS. 



KUSSE CAKE. 



Bake nice sponge cake in cup tine ; cut out 
center, take out inside of cake, leaving about 
thickness, fill with Charlotte russe, place the 
and cover top of cake with frosting. Keep 
ready for table. Miss KlTTIE 

TAPIOCA CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, § butter, 1 milk, 2 flour, 1 c< 
whites 6 eggs, lj tea-spoons Cleveland's superi 
powder. Flavor with J tea-spoon Colton's extr 
or a few drops extract cinnamon. [Colton' 
being of greater purity and strength than any 
quire less in quantity, yet giving a more delicai 
tinctive flavor of the fruit.] Bake in 4 layers. 
Soak 5 table-spoons tapioca over night in ! 
water. Cook till jellied; add § cup sugar, g 
and juice 1 lemon, beaten white 1 egg. Spi 
warm. Frost top of cake with egg and sugar. 

QUEEN CAKES. 

One cup sugar! 1 flour, 2 tea-spoons Clevt 
perior baking powder, 3 eggs, 3 table-spoons n 
ter, 3 milk, 4 tea-spoon Colton's extract of vai 
very light; makes 15 cups. 

CREAM FROSTING. 

Two cups powdered sugar, § cup milk, but 
an e gg- Boil Just 10 minutes, stir till cool 
taste. Mtss F. L. Di 



•'« ••?„■ 



CAKE. 69 

YELLOW FEOSTING. 

Bake the cake in tin papered 1 inch above the cake, 
beat the yolk till perfectly stiff, add 5 tea-spoons pow- 
dered sugar. Frost while cake is hot in the pan ; set in 
dark to harden. E. 

WHITE POUND CAKE. 

One lb. sugar, f butter, 1 flour, whites 14 eggs. Cream 
butter and sugar together, add 2 drops oil of lemon, J 
tea-spoon nutmeg. Beat eggs stiff enough to bear up an 
egg, add to the butter and sugar, stirring as little as pos- 
sible to mix well ; add flour same way. Be careful to 
mix according to directions, to insure success. Bake in 
deep pan with stem in center. Mrs. J. G. Noble. 

GOLD AND SILVER CAKE. 

Gold : One cup sugar, i butter, 2 flour, i tea-spoon 
soda dissolved in J cup milk, 1 tea-spoon cream-tartar, 8 
e gg 8 > i of a nutmeg. Silver : Two cups white sugar, J 
butter, 2J flour, J milk, J tea-spoon soda, 1 cream-tartar, 
whites 8 eggs. Flavor with lemon extract. 

Miss Mae Stevens. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

One gill flour, lj sugar, whites 11 eggs, 1 even full 
tea-spoon cream-tartar, 1 vanilla. Beat eggs to a stiff 
froth; add sugar after sifting twice. Sift flour 5 times 
with cream-tartar, add eggs to flour; beat lightly, but 
thoroughly. Bake in ungreased new pan, with projecting 
pieces of tin upon each corner, so when the cake is baked 
and turned bottom side up, the air can circulate all around 
it. Bake 1 hour in slow oven. Set pan on another so it 



70 CULINARY GEMS. 

cannot scorch on bottom. Cut from the pan 
cold. E: 

TAYLOR CAKE. 
Two cups sugar, 1 of butter, 1 sour milk, 3£ i 
chopped raisins, 3 eggs, 1 tea-spoon cloves, case 
nutmeg, 1 of soda. 2 cards. Mrs. J. E 

WHIPPED CREAM CAKES. 

Two cups sugar, 3 of flour, 1 of milk, $ butter, '■ 
2 tea-spoons cream-tartar, 1 of soda. Bake In CD 
Take off center of top ; take out enough of the cak< 
in 1 table-spoon stiff, whipped cream, flavored and 
ened to suit the taste. Put back cover, and frost. 
JIhs. D. L. Gil 

FANCY CAKES. 

Cut any kind of cake into small squares. Cut ; 
piece from the center of each square and fill the 
with jelly. Replace the crust and cover with fn 
or, frost and sprinkle with fresh cocoanut, leavi 
jelly. 

USE AILING SPONGE CAKE. 

Ten eggs beaten separately very stiff, 1 lb. pnl' 
sugar, J lb. flour, juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, 
salt. After beating, mix eggs, then sugar, togeth 
beat briskly 10 minutes, not shortening time ; ad 
last, and as carefully as possible, stirring only enc 
muc. This will never fail if directions are stric- 
lowed. Mrs. Charles Yeah: 

YELLOW AND WHITE SPONGE CAK 
One lb. granulated sugar, f flour, 10 eggs. Bea 



CAKE. 71 

and £ sugar together ; then £ whites and remainder sugar. 
Seat £ whites ; add to yolks and £ flour the remainder 
flour, with whites. Bake in 2 large cards, putting in 
white, then yellow, in alternate layers. 

Mrs. George Strong. 

COLD WATER SPONGE CAKE. 

Four "cups sugar, 4 flour, 1 cold water, 8 eggs, £ tea- 
spoon soda in the water. Beat eggs all together till very 
light, using large size Dover egg-beater. Add sugar, 
grated peel and juice 1 lemon, flour ; water last. Beat 
very light. Two large cards. Mrs. E. B. Gillett. 

WALNUT CAKE. 

One and one-half cups sugar, £ butter, 2 flour, whites 
4 eggs, 3 cup milk, 2£ tea-spoons baking powder, 1 cup 
walnut meats chopped a little. Miss Alice Byington. 

EXCELLENT SPONGE CAKE. 

Three eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup flour, 2 tea-spoons 
baking powder, 2 ta(ble-spoons milk. F. Bates. 

CHOCOLATE PUFFS, 

That are nice to mix with cake in the basket, are made 
by beating to a stiff froth the whites of 2 eggs ; stir in 
with them gradually 2 tea-cupfuls of powdered sugar and 
2 table-spoonfuls of corn starch ; mix 2 ounces of choco- 
late, which you have grated, with the corn starch. Bake 
these on buttered tins for 15 minutes in a moderate oven. 
They should be dropped ,on the tins from a large spoon. 

S. 



72 CULINARY GEMS. 

PUFF CAKE, 

One cup sugar, lj flour, £ milk, J butter, whites 2 eggs 
beaten stiff, l£ tea-spoons Cleveland's superior baking 
powder, £ Colton's extract almond ; or, omit almond, add 
few drops nutmeg, £ cup currants, or thin, broad slices 
floured citron. E. 

FEATHER CAKE. 

One cup sugar, 1 milk, 2 flour, £ butter, 1 egg, lj 
tea-spoons Congress yeast powder. Flavor to taste. 

Mrs. H. P. Stevens. 

POUND CAKE. 

Eight eggs, their weight in sugar, 1 less in butter and 
flour, soda size of a pea in 1 tea-spoon hot water. Cream 
butter and sugar, add eggs (not beaten) one by one, beat- 
ing constantly, then soda and flour; citron, if desired. 

N. T. V. 
SENSIBLE CAKE. 

One cup sugar, § milk, 1£ flour, 1 egg, 1 table-spoon 
soft butter, 2 tea-spoons Cleveland's superior baking pow- 
der, J of a nutmeg. Bake in biscuit pan ; cut in squares. 

Mrs. F. A. Snow. 

SISTER MAG'S CAKE. 

One lb. flour, 1 lb. sugar, J lb. butter, 6 eggs, 1 tea- "A 

spoon soda, 2 cream-tartar. Beat whites and yolks sep- ■ 
arately. Cream the butter, add sugar, add yolks beaten 

thoroughly, then whites, then flour, flavor to taste, lj • 

tea-spoons mace, very nice. Mrs. H. P. S. # 

ROLL JELLY CAKE. 
One cup sugar, 1 full flour, £ tea-spoon soda, 1 cream- 



*, 



i 



•t .1 



CAKE. 73 

tartar, 4 eggs beaten separately, whites added to yolks 
and sugar ; all stirred into flour. Bake in 2 large sheets. 
Spread while hot with jelly ; roll closely. Wrap in towel 
till cut. S. 

LEMON CAKE. 

One cup butter, 3 powdered sugar; work to a cream. 
Stir into this yolks 5 eggs well beaten, 1 cup milk, 1 tea- 
spoon soda ; add grated peel and juice 1 lemon, whites 5 
eggs beaten stiff. Stir in as lightly as possible 4 cups 
flour. Bake in 2 large pans J hour. 

Mrs. E. R. Van Deusen. 

JUMBLES. 

Three cups granulated sugar, 1£ butter, 1 milk, 6 flour, 
4 eggs, 1 nutmeg, or 1 tea-spoon extract lemon, £ soda, 1 
cream-tartar. Drop in a circle from tea-spoon \in drip- 
ping-pan. Sift sugar over the top ; bake quickly. 

Mrs. Samuel Fowler. 

COCOANUT DROP COOKIES. 

One cup sugar, 1 milk, small £ butter, 1 cup fresh 
cocoanut, (if desicated, soak over night in the milk), 
flour to drop from spoon. Mrs. J. F. Fowler. 

WAFERS. 

Two cups sugar, 1 butter, 4 eggs, J tea-spoon baking 
powder, 1 tea-spoon caraway seeds, flour sufficient to roll 
thin as a wafer. Sprinkle with sugar before baking. 

Mrs. Emerson Davis. 

VANILLA DROP CAKES. 
Two cups sugar, 1 butter, 1 milk, 2 eggs, 2 tea-spoons 



74 CULINARY OEMS. 

Cleveland's superior baking powder, 1 tea-spoon Colt 
extract vanilla, flour sufficient to drop from spoon. 

Mbs. I>. L. Gille 

CHRISTMAS COOKIES. 

Four lbs. flour, 18 sugar, f butter. Pour 1 pt. boi] 

water on the sugar, £ oz. soda, i oz. pulverized ammo: 

J oz. caraway seeds. To be cut with fancy flowe 

stamp. Mrs. J. H. Lockwood 

COOKIES. 
Five cups flour, 1 butter, 2 sugar, 3 milk (best soi 
1 egg, 2 dessert-spoons rose water, J tea-spoon sodi 
cream-tartar (if sour milk, leave out cream-tartar), 
sugar over before baking. Miss Sara Cobb 

SOFT COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar, 1 butter, 1 milk, 3 eggs, 1 tea-ep 

soda, 2 cream-tartar, J nutmeg, } salt, flour to make 

as tea cake. Bake in dripping-pan ; sift sugar c 

When cool, cut in squares. Mrs. L. R. Norton 

SAND TARTS. 
One cup butter, 1J sugar, 2 well beaten eggs, J i 
spoon soda, 3 tea-spoons water, flour to make stiff eno- 
to roll. Cut size of a tumbler, brush the top with wi 
of egg not beaten, sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon 
chopped almonds. Will keep a year. 

Mrs. L. F. That 

LUNCH CAKES. 

One cup sugar, J butter, 4 table-spoons sweet mill 



CAKE. 75 

egg, £ tea-spoon soda, 1 cream-tartar. Mix like cookies 
and roll as thin as possible. Very nice. 

Mrs. Charles Yeamans. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

One full cup molasses, butter size of an egg, 1 tea- 
spoon ginger. Boil all 5 minutes ; add £ cup cold water, 
or cider, flour to run from the spoon, 1 egg well beaten, 1 
tea-spoon soda. If water is used, add 2 tea-spoons lemon 
juice. Beat all together with Dover egg-beater very 
light ; bake in card, or in drop cakes. E. 

SOFT GINGER COOKIES. 

One cup molasses, J butter, 1 cold water, 1 heaping 
tea-spoon soda, 1 qt. flour, ginger and salt to taste. 
Drop on tins and bake in quick oven. 

Mrs. H. A. Nason. 

HARD GINGERBREAD. 

One-half cup sugar, £ molasses, J butter, J warm water, 
2 tea-spoons soda, 1 ginger, flour to roll. Bake in sheets. 
Cut in squares when cool. Mrs. Charles Pierce. 

SOUTH SHORE GINGER SNAPS. 

One qt. molasses, 5 eggs, f lb. butter, 2 table-spoons 
ginger, 1 of soda, little salt, no wetting, flour to make 
stiff. Will keep indefinitely. Mrs. M. A. T. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup molasses, 1 brown sugar, 1 butter, 1 table- 
spoon ginger. Boil all together 10 minutes ; add 1 heap- 
ing tea-spoon soda in \ cup hot water, juice J lemon. Stir 
in flour quickly, working in all you possibly can, and roll 



76 



CULINARY GEMS. 



as thin as a wafer ; cut and bake quickly. Makes 6-qt. 
pan full. E. . 

EAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

Boil and mash 6 potatoes; add 1 pt. milk, strain, 1 
small cup butter, 1 cake Fleischmann & Co.'s yeast in 
sponge, flour to make stiff batter. When thoroughly- 
light, add 2 large cups sugar, 3 eggs, 1 table-spoon salt, 
1 nutmeg, i tea-spoon cinnamon, flour to make stiff as 
biscuit. Rise till quite light; then pour upon board 
without kneading, flatten it out with the hand, cut in 
squares. Rise till very light. Mrs. F. F. Dwight. 

QUICK DOUGHNUTS. 

One cup sugar, 1 sweet milk, 1 egg 9 2£ tea-spoons 
Cleveland's superior baking powder, flour as thin as you 
can roll. Mrs. F. A. Snow. 

CRULLERS. 

Five heaping table-spoons sugar, 4 melted butter, 2 
milk, 4 eggs, $ tea-spoon soda. Mrs. L. F. Root. 



« ♦•»» 



DESSEKTS. 



Delicate, dainty, and light as a feather, 
Islands of amber, and drifts of snow ; 

The art of putting right things together 

In nicest proportions, these pages will show. 



J* M» Lit 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

One-half box gelatine just covered with cold water an( 
soaked 2 hours, 2 qts. cream whipped with whip churn 



* 



DESSERTS. 77 

put froth on sieve as fast as made till all is used ; then 
put in dish on ice. When cold, sift over it l£ cups pul- 
verized sugar, pour very small tea-cup of boiling water 
upon gelatine. When dissolved, strain while warm upon 
the cream, beating vigorously to prevent lumping. 
Flavor with 1 dessert-spoonful of vanilla, and 1 table- 
spoon of other flavoring, if desired. Add more sugar if 
not sweet enough. Line the bottom of 2 2-qt. Russe 
moulds with letter paper, and sides with sponge cake ; 
fill with the cream. Will keep 2 days if kept cold. 

Mrs. Dr. C. B. 

CHAKLOTTE RUSSE. 

One-half box gelatine dissolved in cold water to cover, 
1 qt. cream, 1 cup powdered sugar, 1£ tea-spoons vanilla. 
Beat the cream to a stiff froth, set upon ice, sift on 
sugar ; add gelatine slowly, stirring cream briskly. Beat 
all with beater till it sets. Line mold with strips sponge 
cake, fill with the russe, set upon the ice. 

Mrs. Andrew Bush. 

CHOCOLATE CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

One-half box gelatine in cold water to cover. Grate 
3 oz. of chocolate ; mix gradually into \ pt. cream. 
Add gelatine ; set in pail in boiling water, till chocolate 
and gelatine are dissolved, stirring constantly. Remove 
and cool while beating 8 yolks and 4 whites of eggs till 
very light. Stir gradually into mixture ; add J lb. pow- 
dered sugar. Put over in boiling water again till eggs 
are set. Remove ; add \ pt. more cream, whipped to 
stiff froth ; beat all with large size Dover egg-beater till 
stiff froth. Line molds with strips of sponge cake 1 inch 



78 CULINARY GEMS. 

wide, first wetting mold, leaving space 1 inch between ; 
fill with the russe, set upon ice. E. 

ICED RICE PUDDING. 

Wash and parboil J lb. rice ; then put into a saucepan 
with 1 qt. milk, 1 pt. cream, | lb. sugar, 1 tea-spoon 
salt ; let simmer till done, stirring occasionally with care. 
While yet hot, add 4 eggs, yolks well beaten, whites 
beaten stiff, 1£ tea-spoons vanilla. When cold, freeze 
like ice cream until well set, then put in round mold, and 
set in freezer. While the above process is going on, 
prepare a compote of oranges. Separate 1 doz. oranges 
into small sections, removing all the white pith with a 
small knife. Throw them into a syrup made of 1 lb. 
sugar, scant 1 pt. water ; boil the oranges 2 minutes, 
then strain them on a sieve. Boil the syrup down \ in 
quantity, add wine-glass of curacoa and 3 table-spoons 
peach or apricot jam, mix and pour over oranges. When 
ready to send to the table, turn it out of mold on a hand- 
some dish, pile compote of oranges on top and around 
base, pour over the syrup and serve. 

Mrs. D. L. Gillett. 

ANGEL'S FOOD. 

One box gelatine in 2 qts. milk, set in pail in boiling 
water till dissolved, stirring. Add f pt. powdered sugar, 
yolks 6 eggs beaten stiff; cook till eggs are set. Remove, 
add 1£ tea-spoons vanilla, add the 6 whites beaten to a 
stiff froth; put in molds to cool. Mrs. D. L. Gillett. 

SNOW, ICE, AND THAW. j" 

One-half box gelatine in 1 pt. boiling water. After 



.^•A 



DESSERTS. 79 

standing 10 minutes in cold water^ add juice 2 lemons, 
small pt. sugar; cool, add whites 2 eggs beaten stiff. 
Beat all to stiff froth ; put in molds till next day. Make 
custard of yolks 3 eggs, 1 whole egg, 1 cup sugar, 1 pt. 
milk. Beat whites 3 eggs, with pulverized sugar to 
sweeten. Put gelatine in glass dish, then custard, last 
whites. Mrs. Lyman Smith. 

VELVET CREAM. 

One pt. whipped cream, 1 cup sugar, 1 lemon peel 
grated fine, 3 sheets isinglass in £old water to cover J 
hour ; then pour on £ cup boiling water. Flavor to suit 
the taste. Beat very light ; strain in jelly molds, and set 
on ice. Mrs. Owen Rockwell. 

ORANGE FLOAT. 

One qt. boiling water. Add, while boiling, 2 grated 
lemons (pulp and peel) , 1 coffee-cup sugar, 2 table-spoons 
Duryea's corn starch wet in little cold water ; cook 15 
minutes. When cool, pour over it 5 sliced oranges sprin- 
kled with sugar. Beat whites 3 eggs with 2 table-spoons 
sugar ; put on the top, flavored with £ tea-spoon vanilla. 
Eaten with cream. Mrs. G. G. Tucker. 

MOONSHINE. 

Whites 6 eggs beaten stiff, 6 table-spoons sugar. Cut 
up 1 doz. ripe, mellow peaches ; stir them in. Eaten 
with whipped cream, flavored, or not, to suit the taste. 
Any kind of fruit can be used. Mrs. L. F. T. 

ORANGE GELATINE. 

One-half box gelatine, dissolved in 1 pt. boiling water. 



4 
L 



80 CULINAEY GEMS. 

When cool, add juice 6 oranges, 2 lemons; sweeten 
taste. Strain carefully, and let partly harden ; add bea 
whites 2 eggs ; beat the whole to stiff froth. Put 
molds on ice. E. 

ORANGE BASKETS. 
Peel the oranges to leave a strip for- a handle out of 
upper half, then dig out the pulp carefully, not to br< 
the peel. Keep the baskets in a cool, moist place 
ready to fill. Make a jelly of the juice, coloring a p 
red for effect. When stiff, fill the baskets with brol 
bits of the two colors of jelly, or with whipped ere 
flavored to taste. Tie a bow of white ribbon on top 
handle ; arrange for center piece on table with magnc 
leaves. Miss Lucy D. Giixett. 

CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE. 
Nearly J of a bar of chocolate, £ box gelatine, 1 c 
sugar, 1 pt. milk. Put all in a saucepan and boil 
minutes, stirring constantly; strain and let stand 
cold, then stir in 1 cup whipped cream, put in a mold. 
Miss A. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 
Three table-spoons pearl tapioca, boiled in 1 qt. r 
milt in pail in kettle of water 1 J hours ; put in milk co 
Add yolka 4 eggs, 1 small cup sugar, butter size wain 
i tea-spoon salt ; cook just enough to set eggs. Remo - 
add beaten white 1 egg, flavor with vanilla, pour in gl 
dish. When cool, beat whites 3 or 4 eggs, eweeti 
flavor with trifle lemon ; cover cream in spoonfuls, a 
bits bright jelly. Miss Louise Jones. 



DESSERTS. SI 

BAKED PLUM PUDDING. 

One 10 ct. loaf baker's bread ; remove the cruet and 
cover with milk and leave over night. In the morning, 
pour away if any milk remains in the dish, then add 1 cup 
finely chopped suet, 1 of molasseB, 2 sugar, 1 lb. chopped 
raisins, 1 lb. currants, £ lb. citron, 1 tea-spoon cloves, 
cinnamon and nutmeg, 2 wine-glasses of vinegar. Mix 
in a bowl over warm water. Bake in a slow oven 5 hours. 

Mrs. Charles Cotton. 

FROZEN PUDDING. 

One pt. milk, 1 cup sugar, small J flour, 2 eggs, 2 
table-spoons gelatine, 1 qt. cream, 4 table-spoons fruit 
juice. Soak gelatine 2 hours in cold water to cover, boil 
milk, beat sugar, flour, and eggs together; cook in the 
milk 20 minutes. Just before removing from boiling 
water, add gradually 1 small cup sugar, juice and cream ; 
cool, freeze 10 minutes, add 1 lb. candied fruit, freeze 
little harder. Put in tin mold, pack, and freeze till hard. 
When ready for table, turn on dish ; put whipped cream 
around it, and serve. 

Miss Parloa, by Mrs. H. B. Stevens. 

THE DEACON'S FAVORITE PUDDING. 

Butter 3-pt. dish well, then fill § full with thin slices 
of buttered bread, spices and raisins between, cover with 
milk, let it stand over night. In the morning drain off 
all the milk, beat 4 eggs, § cup sugar, little salt ; add to 
the milk with enough more to cover the pudding. Bake 
slowly 3 hours. Mrs. J. K. W. 



82 



CULINARY GEMS. 



AMBROSIA. 

Grate 1 cocoanut ; peel pine-apple, cut in fine bits. 
Put in dish layer of cocoanut, strew with sugar, then layer 
of pine-apple till dish is full. Use plenty sugar. Oranges 
can be used, instead of pine-apple. Prepare several 
hours before serving. Mrs. H. W. Bates. 

JELLIED APPLES. 

Pare and core 1 doz. large apples. Put in pan, cover 
with 1 lb. white sugar, 1 pt. cold water ; bake. When 
done, put in glass dish. To the juice add 1 box gelatine, 
dissolved in cold water to cover ; add 1 pt. boiling water, 
flavor with juice 1 lemon, pour over apples ; serve when 
cold. Mrs. G. G. Tucker. 

LEMON JELLY. 

• 

One lb. sugar, 1J pts. boiling water, soak \ box gela- 
tine 3 hours in \ pt. cold water, add juice and grated 
peel of 5 lemons. Pour the boiling water on gelatine, 
stir till dissolved ; add other ingredients. Pour in molds 
wet with cold water. Mrs. Samuel Fowler. 

PUDDING, "JOHN'S DELIGHT." 

This is from the "Book of Forty Puddings," and all 
who try it confess that whoever "John" was, he had good 
tast$ in puddings. This is the receipt : Two cups of 
chopped bread, £ cup molasses (though it is better if you 
"scrimp" the half-cup a little), 1 egg, 1 cup of raisins, 1 
cup of sweet milk, with £ tea-spoonful of soda dissolved 
in it, J tea-spoonful of cloves, 1 tea-spoonful of cinnamon, 
a pinch of mace and salt. Boil 2 hours in a tin pudding 
boiler. Eat with foaming sauce, which is made as fol- 




DESSERTS. 83 

lows : Beat £ cup butter to a cream, add 1 cup of granu- 
lated sugar, and stir until it is white and foaming. Just 
before serving pour on it 1 cup of boiling water and stir 
a moment. . Mrs. W. F. C. 

COFFEE JELLY. 

One qt. strong coffee. Sweeten to suit the taste ; set- 
tle and strain till perfectly clear. Dissolve § box gelatine 
in i cup boiling water, add to the coffee. Pour in mold 
-wet with cold water. Serve with whipped cream. 

Miss Mary Strong. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

One qt. milk, £ cup sugar, yolks 4 eggs, £ cup choc- 
olate, 2 table-spoons corn starch ; bake J hour. Beat 
whites 4 eggs, sweeten, put over top and brown. 

Miss Carrie Norton. 

NEAPOLITAN BLANC MANGE. 

Dissolve i box gelatine in cold water to cover, stir into 
1 qt. hot milk ; add % cup sugar as soon as gelatine is 
dissolved. Remove from fire, and divide in 3 parts ; 
flavor 1 with vanilla ; color another with beaten yolk of 
1 egg, flavor to suit the taste ; color the other with choco- 
late. When cool and a little stiff, pour into a mold ; first 
brown, then yellow ; white last. Mrs. F. F. Pratt. 

COMPOTE DES POMMES. 

Six fine large apples pared and halved. Boil them in 
water to cover till tender but not broken ; 1 large orange 
sliced very thin and put into a dish with alternate layers 
of the apple. Make a syrup of the water in which apples 



84 CULINARY GEMS. 

were boiled, with 1 lb. white sugar ; add to this 2 table- 
spoons gelatine previously soaked £ hour in cold water. 
Boil the syrup and gelatine till they are thick, then pour 
over the apples to cool and jelly. When ready to serve, 
turn from the mold. Very pretty and delicious. 

Miss Alice Byington. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Six oranges peeled and cut fine ; strew over them 1 cup 
sugar. Beat yolks 6 eggs with 4 table-spoons corn 
starch ; strain into 1 qt. boiling milk. When cooked, pour 
it over the oranges while hot. Beat whites to a stiff froth, 
with 2 table-spoons sugar, put over the starch ; brown in 
the oven. To be eaten cold. Mrs. R. W. Parks. 

RICE IN MOLD. 

One-half cup rice. Wash free from flour in several 
waters. Put to boil in 1 pt. cold water, 1 tea-spoon salt, 
over a quick fire till water is all ou$. Then add 1 pt. 
rich milk hot, lift up the rice carefully in it with a fork, 
boil gently till it is creamy, then pour in mold. When 
cold, serve with cream and sugar. Mrs. S. P. T. 

RICE CUSTARD. 

Soak J cup rice in 2 cups water over night. Boil rice 
perfectly soft, without breaking ; 1 qt. milk put to boil 
with rice. Add yolks 4 eggs, beaten with 6 table-spoon fl 
white sugar. Set the eggs, then pour into dish. Bea 
whites to stiff froth ; add 4 table-spoons sugar, 1 tea-spooi 
vanilla ; put this on in spoonfuls. Brown in the oven. 

Mrs. Charles Peck 



DESSERTS. 85 

EOCK CREAM. 

One cup hot boiled rice mashed to a paste ; add 8 table- 
spoons cream, 3 heaping of sugar, then whites 6 eggs; 
flavor with 10 drops rose or almond extract. Mold like 
blanc mange ; serve with cream or canned fruit. 

rt Central*" 
DELMONICO PUDDING. 

One qt: milk, 3 table-spoons corn starch, yolks 4 eggs, 
4 table-spoons sugar. Beat all together, add to the boil- 
ing milk, boil 1 minute ; pour in dish. Beat whites stiff, 
sweeten, and put over the top ; brown in oven. To be 
eaten cold. Miss Mary Dibble. 

NORWEGIAN PUDDING. 

One qt. boiling water, 1 cup stoned raisins, 1 small 
cup pearl sago stirred in till it thickens enough to mold 
easily, the grated peel 1 lemon, sweeten to taste ; before 
turning into the mold, stir in 2 table-spoons currant jelly* 
Eaten cold with cream or milk sauce flavored to taste. 

Mrs. Samuel Fowler. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Three heaping table-spoons corn starch, dissolved in 
cold water ; add to 1 pt. boiling water, cook till clear. 
Mix juice 3 lemons with 1 cup powdered sugar, stir into 
the starch, add the whites of 3 eggs beaten ; beat all to 
stiff froth, then mold. Custard : One qt. milk, yolks 3 
eggs, heaping table-spoon corn starch ; sugar to taste ; 
flavor with vanilla. Mrs. Andrew Bush. 

HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING. 
Three pts. flour, 1 sweet milk, 1 berries, 1 sugar, J but- 



86 CULINARY OEMS. 

ter, 2 tea-spoons cream-tartar, 1 soda. Bake % ■ 
hour. Mrs. Liberty Steve; 

LEMON SAUCE. 
Cream 2 oz. butter, J lb. powdered sugar, grated 
and juice £ lemon, 1 table-spoon flour, 1 egg. Be 
together till very light ; add 1 gill boiling water, 
as thick as desired, stir over the fire a short time. 
Mrs. Henry Hop 

SNOW-BALL PUDDING. 
One-half box gelatine dissolved in 1 pt. boiling v 
2 cups granulated sugar, juice 2 lemons; strain, 
"When quite thick, add whites 3 eggs beaten stiff; bt 
together till white froth ; let it harden. Make cust 
yolks, 1 egg, 1J pta. milk; flavor with Colton's e: 
vanilla, pour into glass dish. Lay on the jelly in fc 
snow-balls ; serve. Mrs. E. B. Gille 

A NICE DESSERT DISH. 
Fill a qt. bowl with thinly sliced apples in layen 
sugar, add J. cup water, cover with a saucer weight 
to keep it close, bake slowly 3 hours; let it Stan 
cold, then turn upon dish. It should be jellied fi\ 
cold enough, with clear red slices of apple. Serve 
nice bread and butter, blanc mange, cold rice pud 
and similar dishes. Lenore 

ICE-CREAM. 
To make 6 qts. of delicious cream : One qt. ver 
cream, 2 qts. new milk, whites 18 eggs, yolks 12. 
very light, separately. Whip cream [increases the I 



DESSERTS. 87 

stiff with large size Dover egg-beater, add milk and yalks ; 
sweeten and flavor to suit the taste. Pour in freezer, 
add the whites and freeze. Serves 25 persons. 

Mrs. Reuben Loomis. 

CHOCOLATE ICE-CREAM. 

Make as above. Take 1 qt., add 1 cake grated choco- 
late ; place in pail in boiling water. Cook till chocolate 
is perfectly smooth ; add 1 pt. more sugar. When cold, 
add to the other parts, adding whites last ; freeze. E. 

COFFEE ICE-CREAM. 

Make as above, boiling £ lb. coffee in the milk J hour ; 
strain through very fine .strainer. Add, when cold, to 
other parts ; freeze. E. 

ICED PINE-APPLE. 

One qt. raw picked up pine-apple. Add sugar till very 
sweet, as it loses in freezing, £ box gelatine dissolved in 
J pt. warm water, beaten whites 3 eggs added after it has 
begun to freeze. Pack in molds, if preferred, after freez- 
ing partly, then place molds in ice. E. 

LEMON SHERBET. 

Three cups sugar, 3£ of water, juice of 3 lemons. 
Freeze 5 minutes, then add beaten whites 3 eggs, and 
freeze solid. Mrs. J. B. 

WHITE STEAMED PUDDING. 

One cup sweet milk, £ sugar, 1 egg, £ tea-spoon soda, 
1 cream-tartar, butter size £ egg, 2 cups flour. Steam 1 
hour. Mrs. S. C. Rand. 



«8 



CULINARY GEMS. 



WHITE SAUCE. 

One cup sugar, 1 egg. Beat 20 minutes, add 5 table- 
spoons boiling milk ; flavor to taste. Mrs. S. C. Rand. 

COFFEE CUSTARD. 

Boil 1 pt. milk with 5 table-spoons sugar, add 1 cup 
very strong hot coffee, 3 beaten eggs, 1 tea-spoon corn 
starch wet in a little cold milk ; stir constantly till smooth. 
Pour into a pretty cut glass dish [see French's page of 
ad.] when cold, and cover with white of egg beaten stiff, 
with trifle of sugar. Mrs. W. H. Atkinson. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD. 

Break 2 sections of chocolate in a half-dozen pieces, 
put in a pan over boiling water, with milk enough to 
barely cover it ; mash and stir perfectly smooth, then add 
the rest of the milk (1 qt. in all, reserving 3 table-spoon- 
fuls in which to dissolve the corn starch), 1 cupful of 
sugar, the yoUra of 6 eggs, a heaping table-spoonful of 
corn starch ; beat the yolks, add the sugar and corn starch 
(dissolved in milk), stir all slowly in the. boiling milk in 
which the chocolate is dissolved, add a pinch of salt, and 
let cook a few minutes, stirring constantly ; eat cold with 
white cake. S. 

COLLEGE PUDDING. 

Three and one-half cups flour, 1 suet chopped fine, 1 mo- 
lasses, 1 chopped seeded raisins, 1 sour milk, J tea-spoor 
soda. Boil in pudding mold 3 hours. Mrs. F. A. Snow. 

SNOW-FLAKE SAUCE. 
One full table-spoon butter creamed with 1 heaping cuj 



■s 



./ 



DESSERTS. 89 

sugar. Thicken J pt. boiling water with 1 table-spoon 
flour, worked smooth in a little cold water ; boil 5 min- 
utes. Let it get cold, add the creamed butter and sugar, 
flavor to taste, J tea-spoon salt. Beat with Dover egg- 
beater till a perfect froth. Mrs. F. A. Snow. 

LEMON JELLY. 

One box gelatine, 4 lemons, 1 orange, 1 pt. cold water 
over the gelatine. Slice the lemons and oranges in shav- 
ings into it. Let it soak 1 hour ; add 1 qt. boiling water, 
2 cups white sugar, stir till dissolved. Strain through 
cloth into molds. Mrs. J. W. Colton. 

r 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

One qt. milk ; boil 1 pt., stir in 4 table-spoons Indian 
meal. Cool, add remainder milk, 2 beaten eggs, J cup 
sugar, £ cup molasses, £ tea-spoon salt, 1 cinnamon. 
Bake in hot oven 2 hours. Add J cup cold milk after 
£ hour's baking, if you wish it jellied. 

Mrs. J. S. Olds. 

BOILED INDIAN PUDDING. 

One cup sour milk, 1 sweet milk,,£ molasses, 1£ Indian 
meal, J flour, J tea-spoon salt, 1 soda, J ginger, £ all- 
spice. Mrs. E. B. Gillett. 

CUSTAED TOAST. 

One loaf baker's bread, cut in 1-inch slices, 1 pt. milk, 
2 eggs beaten together, 1 table-spoon granulated sugar, 
£ tea-spoon salt. Pour ovfer the slices, soak till soft. Fry 
in hot lard till a delicate brown. E. 



90 CULINARY GEMS. 

* SAUCE FOR CUSTARD TOAST. 

One email cup sugar, 1 table-spoon butter, creamed ; 
add beaten white 1 egg. Beat together till very light ; 
add 1 cup raspberry vinegar. E. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

One cocoanut grated and the milk, 6 eggs beaten to a 
froth, 1 cup sugar, 1 table-spoon rose water. Beat eggs 
and sugar to a froth, add 1 qt. milk and cocoanut, 1 tea- 
spoon butter. Bake 30 minutes, or till firm, in buttered 
pudding dish ; frost with light egg and sugar, and brown. 
Eaten cold. E. 

MOTHER SNOW'S PLUM PUDDING. 

One full qt. bread crumbs, 1 of sifted flour, 1 of finely 
chopped suet, 1 pt. seeded raisins, £ pt. currants, £ of 
citron cut very small, £ pt. apples pared and chopped into 
small bits, 1 wine-glass fruit juice to taste, £ tea-spoon 
salt, 1 gill milk, 1 of brown sugar, J of a nutmeg, 4 eggs 
beaten very light ; add the sugary then milk, then other 
parts. Boil in floured cloth 3 hours, or in mold ; serve 
with sauce. T. I. M. 



.__j.J!.. -. ._ 



PRESERVES AND PICKLES. 91 



PBESERVES AND PICKLES. 



Here is fruit for an epicure meet, 

Canned, and pickled, and smothered in sweet ; 

The wealth of summer's mellow prime 

To cheer the dearth of winter's rime. J. M. L. 



CANNED PINE-APPLE. 

Sixteen good-sized pines ; pare and pick to pieces with 
a fork. Syrup : One-half lb. granulated sugar to 1 lb. . 
fruit, 7 qts. water. Boil together 5 minutes ; add fruit, 
let it just come to a boil. Skim out the fruit, half fill 
each can ; pour over the syrup, dividing equally in the 
cans. If not quite full, pour in boiling water. Makes 
15 qt. cans. Will keep years. * Mrs. L. F. T. 

UNCOOKED CANNED PINE-APPLE. 

Pare and grate the pines. To 1 lb. fruit, add 1J lbs. 
granulated sugar. When sugar is dissolved, pour in cans 
and seal. Will keep indefinitely. Mrs. E. B. Gillett. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Allow pound for pound. Pare half the fruit; cut the 
rind into shreds, and boil in 3 waters till tender. Grate 
the rind of remaining oranges, carefully removing all par- 
ticles of white, inner peel. Quarter oranges, remove 
seeds, cut into small pieces ; drain the juice, without 
pressing, upon the sugar. Add very little water if or- 
anges are not very juicy. Boil sugar and juice 5 minutes 
and skim ; add and boil the cut peel 10 minutes ; add the 
cut fruit and grated rind ; boil 20 minutes longer. 

Mrs. H. B. Smith. 

8 



92 CULINARY GEMS. 

TO COOK CRANBERRIES. 

Wash 1 qt. of berries, drain them, add 1 pt. cold water, 
boil closely covered just 10 minutes. Add 1 pt. granu- 
lated sugar, boil just 10 minutes longer, keeping them 
covered. This will jelly perfectly when cold, strained or 
not. Cook in porcelain, and stir with wooden spoon, 
as metal destroys the bright color of the berries. S. 

SWEET PICKLE. 

FOR PEACHES, SWEET APPLES, PEARS, OR ANY FRUIT. 

Seven lbs. fruit, 3 sugar, 1 pt. vinegar, spices to the 
taste. Will keep for years. For common use, take 7 lbs. 
fruit, 4 lbs. sugar, 1 qt. vinegar. Mrs. E. B. Gillett. 

SPICED GREEN TOMATOES. 

One-half pk. green tomatoes ; slice thin, lay in jar, 
sprinkle salt between layers. In four days turn off brine, 
add 1 qt. vinegar, 3 table-spoons cloves, 2 mustard seed, 
1 pepper, 1 allspice, £ mace, or nutmeg, 1 lb. brown 
sugar. Cook slowly, not allowing to boil but a few mo- 
ments. Mrs. C. H. Knowles. 

STERLING PICKLE. 

Chop 2 heads cabbage, 1 pt. onions, 1 dozen peppers. 
Mix, sprinkle with salt, and drain in a bag over night. 
Mix 4 oz. each of mustard and mustard seed with 1£ oz. 
celery seed. In the morning put into a jar alternate 
layers of mixture and spice ; put over it cold vinegar. 
Cover closely. Mrs. H. B. Stevens. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

One pk. green tomatoes, 7 green peppers. Chop. fine, 



PRESERVES AND PICKLES. 93 

add \ cup salt, put in colander and drain over night ; add 
1 qt. chopped onions, 4 cups brown sugar, 2 vinegar, 2 
table-spoons salt. Cook J hour. 

Mrs. L. Stevens. 

SPICED CUERANTS. 

One-half lb. sugar to each lb. currants. Bruise the 

currants and sugar together ; spice to your taste. Boil 

nearly \ hour ; add £ pt. vinegar to 3 lbs. currants, let it 
just boil up and it is done. 

Mrs. James Fowler. 

CURRANT CATSUP. 

Ten lbs. currants, mashed and strained through a cloth. 
Add 1 qt. vinegar, 5 lbs. granulated sugar, 3 table-spoons 
cinnamon, 2 cloves, 2 allspice, 1 salt, 1 tea-spoon red 
pepper. Boil slowly 1 hour. Put in small bottles. 

Mrs. G. G. Tucker. 

COLD CATSUP. 

Peel and chop fine J pk. ripe tomatoes, 2 roots horse- 
radish grated, 1 small cup salt, £ cup black and J cup 
white mustard seed, 2 tea-spoons black and J red pepper, 
1 small cup onions chopped fine, 1 table-spoon ground 
cloves, 1 mace, 1 cinnamon, £ cup sugar, 1 qt. vinegar. 

Mix all together and put in jars. 

Miss Janet Todd. 



94 CULINARY GEMS. 



DRINKS. 



Come, touch to your lips this melting sweetness, 

Sip of this nectar — this Java fine, 
Whose tawny drops hold more completeness 

Than lurks in the depths of ruby wine. J. M. l. 



ORIENTAL COFFEE. 

The best coffee is often ruined by improper cooking, 
but a good cup of coffee cannot be made from an inferior 
article, no matter how perfect the method of cooking. 
Therefore, our first injunction is, purchase the best. 
The Best Coffee in the world is the Male Berry Java, as 
imported and distributed by the Oriental Tea Company, 
Boston. The best results are obtained from all coffees 
by the old French and German method of filtering, though 
many families still hold to the plan of steeping as in the 
case of tea. If one has only a plain pot without strainer, 
the recipe given in this book for Tea is the best rule also 
for steeping coffee. But the best results cannot be 
obtained in this way. Coffee should not steep and never 
boil, but the best extract can only be obtained by a grad- 
ual process of filtering. First grind the coffee very fine, 
as fine as the usual grist of Indian meal, not as fine as 
flour, as it is then sure to trouble you. Take 1 ounce of 
fine ground coffee, put into the filter, and pour 1 pint of 
boiling water on to it slowly. Cover it, and let it filter 
through gradually. The filter should be so constructed 
as to require twenty minutes for the water to pass through 
the coffee, as thus the entire extract is obtained. The 



DRINKS. 95 

pot should stand in a dish of hot water to keep it hot. 
Nothing is required to settle the coffee, as, if the filter is * 
of coarse linen, no dust will pass through. One passage 
of the water through the coffee is sufficient to obtain the 
full strength. Take the pot to the table in silver bowl or 
other dish of hot water. This will ensure a hot cup to 
the close of the meal. The Oriental Coffee Urn made by 
the Oriental Tea Company is constructed on this princi- 
ple, and is highly recommended by us as the best in use. 

CHOCOLATE. 

To make 2 gallons delicious chocolate : Two cakes 
chocolate grated, 4 qts. milk (save cream to whip), 4 
boiling water, about 2 cups sugar. Boil in pail in kettle 
of boiling water 2 hours, covered. Serve with whipped 
cream. Follow directions in recipe below for smaller 
quantities. ' E. 

OKIENTAL CHOCOLATE. 

Dissolve in 1 pint of boiling water 2 oz. of Oriental 
chocolate and boil steadily from 20 to 30 minutes, stirring 
frequently to prevent burning. Add sufficient boiling 
water to supply evaporation, add 1 pint cream or milk 
(cream is preferred) , bring to a boil, and serve. Sweeten 
to the taste . " The Oriental chocolate from Caraccas , which 
is made there by factories under the control of Gen. A. 
Ybarra of Caraccas, is imported by the Oriental Tea Com- 
pany of Boston, who have become the sole agents for the 
United States and Canada, and is guaranteed to be com- 
posed of absolutely pure cocoa and cane sugar, and is, we 
believe, the best article of chocolate manufactured in the 
world." 



96 CULINARY GEMS. 

T£A. 

Tea should never be cooked in metal of any kind. Use 
the fire-proof japanned clay pot or other earthen-ware. 
First scald, then put in half an ounce of the leaf and pour 
quickly upon it 1 quart of boiling water. Boiling the 
tea evaporates the choicest qualities, sending the aroma 
through the house. Therefore, next put the tea-pot either 
on to the rear part of range or set it into the top of the 
boiling tea-kettle. Ten minutes steeping will give the 
full strength and aroma of the tea ; longer steeping ex- 
tracts the tannic acid of the leaf, and, though making 
perhaps a stronger decoction, destroys the rich flavor. 
The tea most popular in New England is a choice Formosa 
Oolong, though many enjoy a young leaf Japan, and con- 
noisseurs of English Breakfast will drink no other than 
an English Breakfast tea. In either case, the method of 
making is the same, and the Oriental Tea Company of 
Boston particularly recommend as a tea that will be uni- 
versally enjoyed the Black Dragon Chop. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

To 2 qts. raspberries put 1 pt. of cider vinegar. Let 
them lie together 2 or 3 days, then mash them, and strain 
in bag ; add 1 lb. of granulated sugar to each pt. Boil 
20 minutes ; skim it. Bottle when cold. 

Mrs. E. B. Gillett. 

CURRANT SHRUB. 

Boil currant juice 5 minutes with granulated sugar, 1 lb. 
per pt. juice. Stir constantly while cooling. Bottle when 
cold. , Mrs. E. B. Gillett. 



LUNCH ENTEBTAINMENTS. 97 



LUNCH ENTERTAINMENTS. 



OYSTERS ON ICE. 

Bouillon. 

Broiled Oysters. 

Mutton Chops and Fried Potato Balls. 

Chicken Salad. 

Shrimp Sauce, and Cheese. 

Orange Baskets filled with Whipped Cream, and Cake, 

Ices, and Fancy Cakes. 
Fruit. 
Coffee. 

RAW OYSTERS. 

Escalloped Oysters in shells, and Lemon Jelly. 
Sweet-breads fried in crumbs, with French Peas. 

Potato Salad. 

Charlotte Russe. 

Compote des Pommes. 

Fruit. 

Tea. 

BOUILLON. 

Broiled Salmon, with French Peas. 
Fried Chicken, and Currant Jelly Tarts. 

Veal Croquettes. 

Lettuce, with Myonaise. 

Whipped Cream Cakes. 

Pine-apple Ice, and Angel Cake. 

Assorted Nuts. 

Coffee. 



98 CULINARY GEMS. 

RICH LEMONADE. 

Blue Points on half shell. 

Quail on Toast. 

Fried Sweet-breads, with Creamed Asparagus. 

Rice Croquettes, and Currant Jelly. 

Neapolitan Ice Cream, and Cake. 

Fruit and Confections. 

Chocolate. 

SALMON LOAF. 

Fancy Roast Oysters. 

Jellied Chicken, and Celery. 

Veal Cutlets. 
Saratoga Potatoes in paper baskets, and Sweet Pickles, 

Iced Rice Pudding. 

Crackers and Cheese. 

Fruit. 

Chocolate and Tea. 

BOUILLON. 

Oyster Croquettes. 
Sardine or Ham Sandwiches rolled and tied with 

ribbons, and Olives. 
Mutton Chops. 
# Lettuce, with Myonaise. 

Calf's Liver fried, and Creamed Potatoes. 

Orange Float, and Cake. 

Strawberries Iced. 

Coffee. 

Mrs. D. L. Geluett. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 99 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



CREAM CANDY. 

One lb. pulverized sugar, % tea-cup vinegar, i water. 
Mix thoroughly ; boil in porcelain kettle J hour without 
stirring, add flavor to suit the taste. Pour upon buttered 
plates without stirring. When sufficiently cool, work 
thoroughly. Cut into form to suit the fancy. E. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

One cup molasses, 1 sugar, 3 table-spoons vinegar, 1 
butter. Mix ; boil 20 minutes without stirring. Pour 
upon buttered plates. When cool, work and cut into 
sticks. F. A. S. 

COCOANUT PUFFS. 

Mix 2 cups grated cocoanut with 1 sugar, whites 2 
eggs beaten stiff, 2 table-spoons corn starch. Drop from 
tea-spoon upon buttered paper ; bake quickly. Cool be- 
fore removing from the paper. N. T. V. ' 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

Two cups sugar, 1 water, 1J table-spoons arrowroot. 
Mix ; boil 7 minutes, stirring constantly. Remove, stir 
to a cream, add 1 tea-spoon vanilla. Make into balls size 
of walnut. Melt 1 lb. chocolate, grated, without water; 
roll the cream balls in it while it is warm. N. T. V". 

CREAMED WALNUTS. 

Make cream as in rule above. Make into balls ; press 
down with \ an English walnut meat. N. T. V. 



100 CULINARY GEMS. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

Boil together about 20 minutes, 1 cup each, molasses, 
sugar, and chocolate, £ milk. When nearly done, add 
piece butter size 1 egg. Drop piece in water to ascertain 
when done. Flavor with vanilla ; pour on buttered pans. 
When nearly cold, mark in squares with back of knife. 

Miss Mae Stevens. 

LEMON DROPS. 

Three cups sugar, 1 water. Boil till brittle when 
dropped in water. Pour on buttered plates. When cool, 
sprinkle with 1 tea-spoon tartaric acid. Mold till thor- 
oughly mixed, adding lemon extract to taste. Cut in de- 
sired form. Mrs. J. W. Colton. 

WASHING FLUID. 

Three lbs. sal soda, 1 borax, 18 qts. soft water. Boil 
10 minutes. Pour off into jugs or bottles. Use 1 cup to 
each boiler of clothes. Mrs. F. A. Snow. 

COLD SOFT SOAP. 

Sixteen lbs. stone potash, 16 grease, to make 1 bbl. 
Break the potash in small pieces in old sacking with back 
of ax. Try out the grease before weighing. Put in bbl. 
with potash, pour over 1 boiler of hot water ; stir. Add 
a pail cold water each day, stirring thoroughly, till bbl. is 
half full ; after 10 days, add a pail per day till bbl. is full. 
Give it a thorough stirring each day, from beginning till 
full, with cross-bar on strong stick, to keep it from set- 
tling on bottom of bbl. E. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 101 

BLUEING. 

Chinese blue 1 oz., oxalic acid £ oz., dissolved in 1 qt. 
soft water ; bottle. Mrs. A. P. Strong. 

TO BROWN FROSTING. 

Put your pudding to be frosted in a handsome dish 
ready for the table. Butter a deep pie plate the size of 
the top of the pudding ; beat the frosting as fine as possi- 
ble, the longer the better after the sugar is in ; pile on 
the plate as for the pudding and brown in a moderate 
oven ; slip with a knife upon the top of the pudding or 
pie. This allows using handsome table dishes and no 
risk to either pudding or dish from over-heating. E. 

If boiled onions disagree with you, try them after soak- 
ing in warm, well salted water to cover, 1 hour before 
cooking. 

Preventive and cure for chapped hands : One table- 
spoon glycerine, 4 of "Pond's Extract Hamamelis," 4 of 
soft water. Shake bottle before using. Apply a few 
drops every night on retiring. 

To get rid of red ants, set a plate well greased with 
lard where they appear. They will leave all for it. Im- 
merse plate in hot water and set again. 

Scorched spots, if not too deep, may be removed by 
laying them dry in hot sun. 

After washing oil cloth and zinc, rub with a flannel 
wet with kerosene oil. It will brighten zinc, and prevent 
oil cloth cracking. 



102 CULINARY GEMS. 

DIRECTIONS FOR USING STAR POLISH. 

As Silver and Silver-plated Ware enter so 
largely into the table service of nearly every house- 
hold, the best method for cleaning and polishing the same 
will be appreciated by all good housekeepers, as nothing 
about the house bespeaks of neatness and cleanliness more 
than finely polished silver-ware. 

To clean silver thoroughly, use Red Star Powder. 
Make a solution of soap and hot water, take a piece of 
flannel, dip it into the solution, then into the dry powder, 
apply to the silver, rub thoroughly (using a jeweller's 
brush on chased or frosted work) ; wash in clean soap and 
water, wipe dry, polish with a soft piece of flannel slightly 
sprinkled with dry powder, rub briskly, and a most beau- 
tiful polish will appear, excelled by no other process 
known. 

Slightly tarnished silver can be cleaned by using the 
powder dry, on soft flannel. To polish Glass, use the 
powder dry or slightly moist. There are many agencies 
that tarnish silver, such as sulphur, matches, rubber, 
eggs, mustard, foul air, coal gas, etc., all of which 
are easily removed with the RED STAR CLEANING 
POWDER, without the slightest injury to the plate. 



The Government Chemist Analyzes two of the Leading 
Baking Powders, and what he finds them made of. 



The best baking powder is made from pure Cream of Tartar, Bicar- 
bonate of Soda, and a small quantity of flour or starch, Frequently 
other ingredients are used, and serve a purpose in reducing the cost 
and increasing the profits of the manufacturer. 

We give the Government Chemist's analyses of two of the leading 
baking powders : 

I have examined samples of " Cleveland's Superior Baking Powder," manufactured 
at Albany, N. Y., and "Royal Baking Powder," both purchased by myself in this 
city, and I find they contain : 

*' Cleveland's Superior Baking Powder." 

Cream of Tartar 
Bicarbonate of Soda 
Flour 
Available carbonic acid gas 12.61 per cent, equivalent to 118.2 cubic inches of ga» 
per oz. of Powder. 



" Royal Baking Powder." 

Cream of Tartar 
Bicarbonate of Soda 
Carbonate of Ammonia 
Tartaric Acid 
Starch 
Available carbonic acid gas 12.40 per cent., equivalent to 116.2 cubic inches of gas 
per oz. of Powder. 
Ammonia gas 0.43 per cent., equivalent to 10.4 cubic inches per oz. of Powder. 
Note — The Tartaric Acid was doubtless introduced as free acid, but subsequently 
combined with ammonia, and exists in the Powder as a Tartrate of Ammonia. 

B. G. LOVE, Ph. D* 
New Yobk, Jan. 17, 1881. 

The above analyses indicate a preference for " Cleveland's Superior Baking Pow- 
der," and our opinion is that it is the better preparation. — Mall's Journal of Health- 

«♦»» » 



Pacts are Stubborn Things. 

Is there anything in any of the numerous advertisements of the 
Royal Baking Powder to show that the Koyal does not use Ammonia 
and Tartaric Acid as cheap substitutes for Cream of Tartar? Or is 
there any charge, or the slightest insinuation in those advertisements,, 
that Cleveland's Superior Baking Powder contains anything but the 
purest Grape Cream of Tartar and Bicarbonate of Soda, with a small 
portion of flour as a preservative ? 

Ammonia and Tartaric Acid produce a cheap leavening gas, which 
is not to be compared, in the practical test of baking, with the more 
desirable Carbonic Acid gas generated by the exclusive use of the ex- 
pensive Cream of Tartar. 

Use Cleveland's Superior Baking Powder, and judge for yourself of 
its superiority. 



List of Advertisers. 




jE cordially commend to the notice of our friends the fol- 
lowing List of Advertisers, not only because they have 
kindly favored us with their patronage, but for the intrin- 
sic merits of the articles and houses advertised, which will be found 
described in the subsequent pages, and which are especially entitled 
to approval and confidence. The houses which these advertisements 
represent are among the oldest established, and of the highest standing. 



Cleveland's Baking Powder. 

Chicago & North- Western R. R. 

Duryea's Starch. 

Hutchins, Musical Instruments, 
etc. 

Snow & Hays, Dry and Fancy 
Goods. 

Wright & Co., Cleaning Powder. 

Goldthwait & Co., Carpets. 

Davenport, Furniture. 

Colton, Select Flavors. 

Forbes & Wallace, Gloves. 

Lawrence, Wilde & Co., Furni- 
ture. 

Pillabury & Co., Flour. 

Rollins, Window Shades and Pa- 
per Hangings. 

Hardy, Photographs. 

Fleischmann & Co., Yeast. 

Guild & Co., Groceries. 

Barnard, Livery Stable. 

French Brothers, Provisions. 

Hartley & Co., Carpets. 

Noble, Groceries, etc. 

Henry F. Miller, Pianos. 

Oriental Tea Co., Tea, Coffee 
Chocolate. 

Pepper, Linoleum. 

Ideal Coffee Co., Ideal Coffee 
Pot, Coffee Meal, Porcelain 
Double Boiler, etc, 

Fisk Mfg. Co., Soap. 

Silas Peirce & Co., Spices. 

Carr & Co., Crackers and Bis- 
cuits. 

Eastern Rubber Co., Rubber 
Goods. 



Small & Co., Furniture. 

Richardson, Dry and Fancy 
Goods. 

Bell & Co., Spiced Seasoning. 

Stevens, Flour. 

Slade, Yeast Powder and Spices. 

Carpenter, Cornell & Co., Salad 
Dressing, Extracts, Canned 
Goods. 

Merrill & Morrison, House Fur- 
nishings. 

Dobson, Carpets. 

Cooley, Clothing. 

Shepard, Norwell & Co. f Dry 
Goods. 

Wheeler & Wilson Mfg. Co., 
Sewing Machines. 

Dr. J. H. Porter, Great Healing 
Vital Oil. 

Sawyer Crystal Blue Co., Blue- 
ing. 

Pigott & Son, Paints, Putty and 
Colors. 

Allen & Rowell, Photographs. 

Cobb, Bates & Yerxa, Groceries, 

Stone & Campbell, Graham Flour. 

John B. Souther & Co., Furni- 
ture. 

Franklin Crosby, Carpetings. 

Shumafl & Co., Boys' Clothing. 

Arthur & Co., Commission Mer- 
chants. 

Stevens, Provisions, Fruits, etc. 

Abram French & Co., Crockery, 
China and Glassware. 

Ilsley, Hats and Furs. 

Woolrich & Co., Ridge's Food. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 1 05 

TJY ALL ODDS 

THE JJEST EQUIPPED 

RAILROAD IN THE WORLD. 

Let it be forever remembered that the 

Chicago & Nortli Western Railway 

is the best and shortest route to and from Chicago and Council Bluffs 
(Omaha), and that it is preferred by all well posted travelers when 
passing to or from 

CALIFORNIA AND COLORADO. 

It also operates the best route and the short line between 

Chicago and St. Paul ™ d Minneapolis. 

Milwaukee, La Crosse, Sparta, Madison, Fort Howard (Green Bay), 
Wis., Winona, Owatonna, Mankato, Minn., Cedar Rapids, Des Moines, 
Webster City, Algona, Clinton, Marshalltown, Iowa, Freeport, Elgin, 
Rockford, 111., are amongst its 800 local stations on its lines. 

Among a few of the numerous points of superiority enjoyed by 
the patrons of this road are its day coaches which are the finest 
that human art and ingenuity can create; its palatial sleeping' 
cars, which are models of comfort and elegance ; its palace draw- 
ing" room cars, which are unsurpassed by any; and its widely 
celebrated 

NORTH-WESTERN DINING CARS, 

the like of which are not run by any other road anywhere. In short, 
it is asserted that it is the best equipped road in the world. 

All points of interest North, Northwest and West of Chicago, 
business centers, summer resorts and noted hunting and fishing grounds 
are accessible by the various branches of this road. 

It owns and controls over 5,000 miles of road and has over four 
hundred passenger conductors constantly caring for its millions of 
patrons. 

Ask your ticket agent for tickets via this route, and take none 
other. All leading ticket agents sell them. It costs no more to 
travel on this route, that gives first-class accommodations, than it does 
to go by the poorly equipped roads. 

For maps, descriptive circulars and summer resort papers, or other 
information not obtainable at your local ticket office, write to 

F. H. MELENDY, New England Pass. Agt., 

5 STATE STREET, BOSTON, MASS. 



106 ADVERTISEMENTS, 

Absolute Purity 
Gu arante ed. 

STARCH THAT IS PURE IS THE CHEAPEST. 



It costs less for a given amount of work. 
It preserves the strength, whiteness, and purity of linen, 

DURYEAS' 

GLEN GOVE STARCHES 

FOR THE LAUNDRY. 

SATIN GLOSS, in 6 lb. boxes. 
SATIN GLOSS, in 1 lb. papers. 
SUPERIOR, in 40 lb. boxes. 
EXTRA SUPERIOR, in 40 lb. boxes. 
SUPERIOR "D," in 40 lb. boxes. 

Are Warranted Absolutely Pure. 

DURYEAS' 

IMPROVED 

CORN STARCH 

FOR CULINARY PURPOSES. 
UNEQUALED IN DELICACY AND PURITY. 



Duryeas' Clen Cove Mfg. Co. received the 
ONLY COLD MEDAL over all (there being S3) 
competitors, at PARIS EXPOSITION, 1878. 

FOR 8ALE BY ALL OROCER8. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



M.J, D. HUTCHINS, 

DEALER IN FIRST-CLASS 

Flii'Oi, Organs, Sheet lisle 

AND 

MUSICAL MERCHANDISE. 

402 Main Street, - Springfield, 

233 High Street, - Holyoke. 

Instruments rented, exchanged, and sold on instalment!. 

0. W. HUTCHINS, 

MANUFACTURER OF 

Band Instruments, Bicycle Bugles, 

DRUMS, BANJOS AND MUSICAL MERCHANDISE. 

Office and Salesroom, 403 Main St., Springfield. 
Factory, SSS.Maln Street, Springfield. 
London Office, 87 Great Marlborough Street, 



i- 





108 AD VE RTISEMENTS . 

SNOW & HAYS, 

WESTFIELD, - MASS. 

RELIABLE DEALERS IN 

, CARPETS, OIL CLOTHS, 

Shades, Cloaks, Shawls, 

AND 

FANCY GOODS OF AT J, KINDS. 

ALL GOODS AT LOWEST PRICES. 

SNOW & HAYS. 

CLEAN AND POLISH 



Silver and Silver Plated Ware 



GLEANING POWDER. 

The finest, cleanest, cheapest, and most effectual Silver Polish in 
the world. 

IT HAS NO BQUAL. 

ASK YOUR GROCER, DRUGGIST, OR JEWELER FOR IT. 

PREPARED AND PUT UP BY 

J. J±. WEIGHT & CO., 

KEBNB, N. H. 

A thirty-two page pamphlet and a sample of Red Star Powder mail 
free to any housekeeper upon application. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 109 




CARPETS 




«♦»» » . 



JOEL GOLDTHWAIT & CO., 

163 to 169 WASHINGTON STREET, 

Are now ready to show an elegant line for Spring and Summer 
furnishings, consisting of a line* of the famous 

MORRIS CARPETS AND RUGS, 

Also the different makes of 

AXMINSTERS, 

MOQUETS, 

WILTONS, 

BRUSSELS, 
TAPESTRIES, 

and INGRAINS, 

LIGNUMS, 

LINOLEUMS, 

And OIL CLOTHS, 

With a very large assortment of the popular 

WOODSTOCK CARPET. 

163 to 169 Washington Street, 

BOSTON. 



* ~rr 



110 



ADVEETISEMENTS . 



A. H. DAVENPORT, 



MANUFACTURES OF 



Fip Finni 




J 



ARCHITECTURAL WOOD WORK, &c. 



IMPORTER OF 



WALL PAPERS, CURTAINS 



AND 



UPHOLSTERY. 



96 & 08 Washington St., Boston. 



29 West 23d St., Jfew York. 



'*■ 



ADVERTISEMENTS . ill 

COLTON'S 





OF THE 



' CHOICEST FRUITS AND SPICES. 



Their SIMPLE PURITY, UNEQUALLED 

STRENGTH, and Economy are winning friends 

wherever they become known to the careful 

Housekeeper, Hotel Landlord, Confectioner, 

Baker and Ice Cream Maker, who prize 

delicious purity. THE BEST. 

AJST> WHY? 

From the first day offered in the market, until now, not one par- 
ticle of Coloring or Adulteration has ever been used, in a sale of 
Thousands of Gross, and they are the TRUE RICH FLAVORS OF 
THE FRUITS, and many of the Finest Dealers in this country secure 
more than three times as large sales with COLTON'S SELECT FLA- 
VORS than with any •ther Flavoring Extracts. 

COLTON'S SELECT FLAVORS 

Have taken the prize in the New England Fair, American Institute, 
New York City, Middlesex Mechanics Fair, at Lowell, Mass., one of 
the Finest Fairs held in Massachusetts, and at every fair where exhib- 
ited in competition, including the only Medal awarded to Fruit Flavors 
by Judges of Award at the Qreat Centennial Exhibition of 1876. 

Great Favorites fbr Soda Syrups. 

ASK YOUR GROCER OR DRUGGIST FOR THEM. 



112 ADVERTISEMENTS. 

FORBES & WALLAC1 

HD GLOVE DEPARTMENT/ 

We offer at very low prices the 

SAXON REAUTY KID GLOV 

Josephine Seamless Kid Gloves, 

TBS BSST IS TBS WflBLD FOB TBS X02/ST. SVSBYPJ 
WABBAiTTXD. 

FORBES & WALLACE. 

LAWRENCE, WILDE & CO 

MAHUIACTl-REES OF FIRST-CLASS 

furnitur: 

INTERIOR DECORATIONS. 

Nos. 38 to 48 OornhiU, 

BOSTON. ' 



ADVERTISEMENTS . 



113 



GEO. A. PIIXSBURY, 
JOHN S. PIIXSBURY, 



CHAS. A. PIIXSBURY, 
FRED. C. PIIXSBURY. 



CHAS. A. PILLSBURY & CO., 




wjwmm 




MINNEAPOLIS, - - MINN. 

PROPRIETORS OF THE 

PILLSBURY MILL A, 

PILLSBURY MILL B, 

ANCHOR MILL. 

CAPACITY, 7,500 BARRELS PER DAY. 

Manvfaeturen of the following Choice Brands of flour : 
PILLSBURY'S BEST. PILLSBURY. 

ANCHOR. CROWN. 

Ifcvfcizxinosotst IE3©11©. l=\©fo:rrja.. 

DIAMOND. TONKA. 



A* 



99 



WESTFIELD AGENT, 

J. Or. NOBLE 



NORTON, WARREN & CO., Agents, 

SPRINGFIELD, MASS. 



i rri 



114 



ADVERTISEMENTS . 



E. L. &F. S. ROLLINS, 



MANUFACTURERS OF 










AND 



80 Franklin Street, 



BOSTON. 



p , I3stesi i 



CARD, CABINET AND PANEL 












■AT- 



HARDY'S, 

Corner Main and Worthington Streets, 



SPRINGFIELD, MASS. 



.. '.•__> 




ADVERTISEMENTS . 



115 



FLEISCHMANN&CO'S 









® 



Pure Extract of Selected Grain. 



(Patented April 26, 1870.) 



*¥Jffi jaegW ^EIiI^BDE MH ^^eN6EgJF.<- 



None Genuine Without our Yellow Label. 



AGENTS : 



N. & E. ROSENFELD, 

No. 89 Essex Street, 

(CORNER EDINBORO) 

BOSTON, MASS. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



FLOUR, TEAS, COFF 
*»*■ ■ * 

J ^ EXTRA. CHOICE "* * 

: HAXALL : 

* manufactured * 

* expressly for + 

* GecB-GuildSC:' * 

*♦ WARRANTEU . ♦ 

GEO. B. GUILD & C( 
Grocers and Flour Dea 

191 Broadway, Chelsea. 

Fred. B. Barnar: 

(BROADWAY STABLES) 

, Ji id Li 1 

446 Broad-way, Chelsea. 

As we are connected by telephone with John F. Barnard 
stables, our facilities are unsurpassed for furnishing, s 
notice, Carriages for Weddings, Receptions, Funt 
Shopping, or Family Biding. 

Board for Private Teams Solicited, Terms Rea 

Telephone No. 6167. 



r 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



FRENCH BROTHERS, 

390, 302 and 394 Hanover Stre 

BOSTOM. 



Beef, Pork, Mutton, Lard, Ha 

SAUSAGES, TRIPE, PIGS' FEET, 

(fame, fruit, Vegetables, Eggs, 



CHEESE & BUTTE 

Direct from Vermont. 



Orders taken and delivered in Chelsea and East Boston e 
morning free of charge, 



CALL AND SEE VS. 

EYKON L. FRENCH. ELMER L. Fi 



ADVERTISEMENTS . 



H, A. HARTLEY & d 

95 to 105 Washington Street, 

HAVE IS STOCK CHOICE PATTEttSS OF THE FOLLOW! 












Our prices are the lowest that FIRST-C] 
GOODS can be sold for, and -will 
amply repay inspection. 



New and Choice Stock. 



93 to 108 Washington Stree 

BOSTOIT. 



ADVERTISEMENTS . 



J. G. NOBLE, 

DEALER IS 

Staple -s Fancy Groceri 

. PROVISIONS, PEODUCE, FLOUE, 
Canned Goods, Crockery, Glassw 

Etc., Etc. 
A NICE LINE OF LAMPS AND FANCY COOi 



All Goods Warranted First-Class. 



No. 8 School Street, . . Westfleld, N 

COLTOJPa BLOCK. 



1 



120 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



THE 




The Most Successful Piano for the past twenty years. 



From the Cincinnati Times-Star, Jan. 16, 1883. 

"Dr. Maas always uses the Artist Grand of the Henry F. Miller make, upon 
"which he is able to accomplish wonders. Frequently he held a single note in the 
melody through a dozen bars of harmonic chords, and the note still rang out clear 
and strong at the close." 

Boston Transcript. 

" The Miller Pianos fulfilled their part in the performance nobly ; in fact, leaving 
nothing to be desired." 

St. Louis Globe Democrat. 

" No better concert piano has ever been heard here." 

Boston Herald. 

" The quality of tone will not soon be forgotten. . . . The beautiful melody 
'was sung by the Piano with as much expression as a great artist could give it with 
the yoice." 

Cbicago Times. 

" The Piano was extremely satisfactory, both in point of brilliancy and fullness 
•of tone." 

St. Louis Spectator. 

" A finer or more powerful concert Piano has rarely, if ever, been heard in 
-St. Louis. 

The Musical Courier, N. Y. 

41 The Magnificent Miller Grand Piano, which we have heard used by Maas, 
Neupert and Sherwood, and which in all instances — although subjected to four en- 
tirely different touches (including our own), and, in case of Neupert, to the most 
trying tests — astonished us through the sonority, richness, power and nobility of its 
tone qualities, and the evenness and easy response of its action." 

The friendly co-operation of the great artists resident in America, 
and the continual use of these pianos in concerts in large cities, have 
proved of the utmost advantage in their development into the perfection 
of Piano-Fortes. 

Only Patronage for the Highest Grade of Workmanship 

is Solicited. 

Elegant Catalogue will be sent on Application. 



HENRY F. MILLER, 



No. 611 Washington Street, 



Boston, Ma 



r 



ADVERTISEMENTS . 



Oriental Tea Company, 

87 COURT STREET, BOSTON, 

«-IMPOETER3, UHOLESALEKS, AND RETAILERS'^* 

Tea, Coffee aid Chocolate. 



Orders by Express, Postal or Telephone promptly forwarded 
to any address. 

Our MALE BERRY JAVA is the best coffee In the world. 

We import the best CHOCOLATE from Caraccas. 

We make the Orienl»l Coffee Pot for properly -leacliiHg coffee. 



122 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



LINOLEUM 















XS £TO"W VSES xxr 



OFFICES, PUBLIC BUILDINGS, DINING BOOMS, 

HALLS and KITCHENS. 

It is Warm, Suable, Noiseless and Beautifal. 

It is composed of Cork and Linseed Oil pressed 
upon Canvas, and is made 

IN PLAIN AND FIGURED PATTERNS 

And can be tastefully laid with appropriate borders. Inlaid 

and Granite Linoleum Patterns and Colors all 

through, and cannot be worn off. 



Wholesale and Retail by 

O. H. PEPPEE, 

Linoleum Warehouse, 
68 & 70 Summer Street, Boston, 



New York Warehouse, 1319 & 1321 Broadway. 



ADVERTISEMENTS . 123 



C. H. PEPPER'S 

LINOLEUM, 

And Some of the Various Purposes for which this 

REMARKABLE FLOOR CLOTH 

IS SPECIALLY ADAPTED. 



IT IS NOW USED in the homes of thousands in New York and 
vicinity. Kitchens, Dining-Rooms, Halls, Bath-Rooms, Bed-Rooms, 
Billiard Rooms, Closets, Stairs, are now furnished with it, and it is 
preferred oc account of its Cleanliness, Noiselessness % Warmth and Dura- 
bility, to any other floor covering. 

C. H. PEPPER'S LINOLEUM is warm and soft to the feet, com- 
paratively noiseless, easily cleaned, inexpensive and very durable. 

C. H. PEPPER'S LINOLEUM is an excellent substitute for Car- 
pets where durability and freedom from dust are desired, and is spe- 
cially adapted for Offices, Banks, Churches, Schools, Hospitals, Theatres, 
Lodge Rooms, Stores, Restaurants, Ships, Yachts, $c. 

C. H. PEPPER'S LINOLEUM in plain colors, with broad, artis- 
tic borders, is soft and noiseless, and can scarcely be worn out. 

C. H. PEPPER'S LINOLEUM, in suitable designs, is now exten- 
sively used for Bed-Rooms, Bath-Rooms, and can be recommended for 
rough wear. 

C. H. PEPPER'S LINOLEUM is used in the Custom House, 
Cooper IJnion, City Hall, New York Hospital, Masonic Temple, 
Brooklyn Academy of Music, St. Stephen's and St. Joseph's R. C. 
Churches, New York and Brooklyn Young Men's Christian Association 
Halls, and many other public buildings ; and during the past thirteen 
years hundreds of offices and stores have been furnished with it. 

C H. PEPPER'S INLAID LINOLEUM colors all through; 
colors cannot be defaced. Tile patterns, with a'ppropriate borders, 
suitable for halls, vestibules, bath-rooms, etc. 

GRANITE LINOLEUMS, mottled, very carpet like when bor- 
dered, and indestructible. 



TO BE HAD ONLY OF 

O. H. PEPPER, 1319 & 1321 Broadway, N. Y. 

10 



■* 



>*■ 






ADVERTISEMENTS. 



The Celebrated Ideal Coffee 



gS 



AHEAD OF ALL RIVALS. 

Those who hare once used them will have no others at 

THE IDEAL COFFEE MEAL, pre pared eipressly for Iheae p 

imitation", by die scientific IDEAL PROCESS, yields nearly double 

THE IDEAL PORCELAIN DOUBLE BOIL 

COOKS i Oi 

_ .. . Rici 

Everything 

WITHOUT * e 

Cra 

BURNING 1 

Bro- 

. Pi 
STICKING. anc 

aa-y~e Poison, JTo DUcoloratlon, So Out about i;.-ffi» 

When conked in [be above boilers are the finest foo'd the world can p 
the beat kinds of Coffee, Tea, Cocoa and Chocolate for .ale wtolosi 
at the IDEAL STORE, 
IDEAL COFFEE CO. J Y£> &, W Washing!. 
Capital, SM.OOO. j BOSTON. 

Send for.sampUt and prices. W. H. BAILE 



1.-. 



ADVEKTI8EMENTS. 125 

ALL SOAPS BEARING THE NAME OF 

ittsk: mfgl company 

ARE WARRANTED 

Free from all Adulterations, and are the 

STANBAMB S&APS 

For Economy, Purity, Cleanliness, and Tasking Qualities. 



Do jour Clothes, after a few washings, become yellow or have the appearance 
of no', having been thoroughly washed, and it becomes necessary to " put them out 
to bleach ? " 

This is caused by the use of so.ip filled with Rosin, Sal. Soda, Silex, Silicic Acid, 
Silicon, Clay, and other adulterations, of no wanking qualities, but " fill up>" and 
add weight, 

TRY FISK MFG. CO.'S JAPANESE, 

and remedy this — have your clothes become white as snow, fragrant, and per- 
fectljAclean. 

X>o you have Chapped,Cracked, or Sore Hands, or do they become "parboiled" 
by " doing a washing ? " This is caused by the use of soaps filled with caustic, 
soda, acids, or vitriol, which ruin the hands, rot and eat the clothes* 

USE FISK MFG. CO.'S JAPANESE, 

and you will never have these troubles— your hands, no matter how badly injured, 
will become perfectly soft and smooth. * 

Warranted free from all adulterations, and will not injure the finest Laces, 
and by its exclusive use for a short time, you will readily see its superior benefits, as 
it is pronounced by all, after one or two trials, to be the best soap ever used. 

We are the patentees and sole makers of the genuine Japanese Soap, See that 
our name is on each wrapper, and take no other. 

LETTERS PATENT ISSUED TO US OCT. II, 1875, SEPT. 18, 1877. 

We especially recommend it to persons employed in Factories, Machine Shops, 
or mechanical pursuits, for the cleansing of the hands of Grease, Grit, or Grime. 
Ask your friend or neighbor of its qualities. Ask of your Grocer to see it, and you 
will try it. 

EACH BAR CONTAINS TWO CAKES. 

Cut the bar,— dry hard— each cake will out-last the five cent soaps now 
being sold. 

Also, the Best Bar Soaps in America, in 1, 2, 3, and 4 pound bars— unlike most 
family soaps, are put up Full Weight for every patron, and will last one-third 
longer than any other Bar soaps. 

Ask your Grocer for Fisk Mfg. Co 's Soaps, and get the best, purest, cleanest, 
and the most solid soaps in the market. 

No rancid or filthy grease used in our goods* 

FISK MFG. CO., SPRINGFIELD, MASS. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



Silas Peirce & Co., 

59 and 61 Commercial Street, Boston. 



PEIRCE'S PURE SPICE 

Cream Tartar aid Sponge Cate Saleratns. 



One of the most gratifying marks of education and refinement 
country is the growing demand for the best of everything used 
preparation of food. Few people realize the vast difference b 
the low grades of spices usually brought to America, and th 
aromatic and delicious goods used by the nobility and bon viv 
Europe. Having since the. foundation of our house in 1815c 
our attention to the wants of the best class of trade, we have m 
rangements to supply the increasing demand for these goods, and 
the brand of Peirck's pure, we offer the best spices produced 
world. In order that they may reach the consumer without det 
tion by age or exposure, we pack them only In full weight ^ 
air-tight cans, bearing our name and trade-mark, and we are co 
our long established reputation will justify us in asking you 
these goods a trial, knowing that the result will be so satisfacto 
you will continue their use. See that our full firm name, I 
FEIRCE & CO., BOSTON, is on every package. 

SIL^S FEIRCE & C( 
59 and 61 Commercial Street, 

BOSTON, MASS. 




ADVERTISEMENTS. 



'i-HF 



127 



VS,i 



SPRINGFIELD 



■■«« 






'ft 



J. S. CARR & CO., 



SPRINGFIELD, MASS. 



MANUFACTURERS OF AIA KINDS OF 



CRACKERS AND BISCUITS. 



Our experience of oyer thirty-four years in the business, together 
with the determination to put only first-class goods before the public, 

has placed' us at the head, 

CAREFUL SELECTION OF STOCK. 
IMPROVED MACHINERY IN MANUFACTURE. 
UNIFORM QUALITY. 
Always Use tlie Springfield Crackers. 









A* 



To tus Ladies: 

We respectfully challenge you to make a cake equal in delicacy 
and flayor to our Vanilla Creams. Try them. 






OF EVER 
DESCRIPTI 



12b advertisements. 

RUBBER GOODS 

AT LOWEST MARKET PRICES. 
Rubber Goods for Gentlemen. 
Rubber Goods for Ladies. 

Rubber Goods for Children. 
Rubber Goods for the house. 
Rubber Goods for the Stable. 

Rubber Goods for the Garden. 

Rubber Goods for Everybody. 
Rubber Goods for Everythi 

IF YOU WANT RELIABLE RUBBER ROODS, AT REASON A 
PRICES, EXAMINE OUR STOCK BEFORE PURCHASING 

EASTERN RUBBER CO., 

29 Milk (Near Washington) Street, 

BOSTON. 
A. W. WORKLET, K. II. DOWHEB, A. RANDOI 



U 



5 



S. C. SMALL & CO., 



MANUFACTURE R8 



Parlor, Church and Lodge Furniture, Invalid Chairs, &c, 

Old Furniture renovatrd and rt-coTcrrd. Antique work renewed. On Ma 



ADVERTISEMENTS . 



129 



A. D. RICHARDSON, 

Dry and Fancy Goods, 



Hosiery, 

Edgings, 

Braids, 

Crash, 

Prints, 



Glores, 

Collars, 

Buttons, 

Towels, 

Cottons, 



Ribbons, 

Cuffs, 

Corsets, 

Cambrics, 

Ginghams. 



A Full Line of Ladies' and Gent's Underwear can be found at 

THE BUTTON MAN'S, 
265 BEOADWAY 265 



CHELSEA. 



Agency for Troy Laundry. 



WM. C. BELL & CO., 



SOLE MANUFACTURERS OF 



■Bell's Spiced Seasoning 

MADE from the GRANULATED LEAVES of the MOST FRAGRANT 
SWEET HERBS AND CHOICE SELECTED SPICES. 

48 and 50 Commercial Street, . . Boston. 



Windsor Hotel, Fifth Ave., New York. 
Messes. Wm. G. Bell & Co. 

Gentlemen — We have used the sample of Poultry Seasoning sent 
us by you, and commend it to the public, particularly to private fami- 
lies. It is perfect in every way. 

HAWK, WAITE & WEATHERBEE. 



Parker House, Boston. 
Wm. G. Bell & Co. Gentlemen — We have used your Spiced 
Seasoning several years at this house, and can cheerfully recommend 
it as a very desirable condiment. Eespectfully, &c, 

JOSEPH BECKMAN, Steward. 



130 ADVERTISEMENTS. 






The Superior Bread-Making Qualities of the 

Milling Company's Patent Flour 

Have established its reputation as the best flour for 

family use. 

This flour is made by latest improved patent process, and is 
the highest grade of flour which it is possible to make from 
wheat. 

It will make a large, rich, white loaf of bread. 
Bread made from this flour is healthy and nutritious. 
It is the most economical flour in the market. 



FOB SALE BY 

62 & 66 Chelsea St., 

Corner Hendley St., - - Ch&rlestown, Mass. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 

The oldest and beat known Baking Powder is 

CONGRESS ?lti 

And as it has been in the market for almost 40 years, 
itself a sufficient recommendation. 

The Congress is a strictly pure Cream Tartar Baking 
der, and contains none of the injurious' ingredients lik 
monia, Tartaric Acid, Alum, etc., found in other 
powders. 

In using the receipts in this book, when it says 2 tea, 
of Cream Tartar and one of Soda, use in place of the 
articles, 3 tea-spoons Congress Y east Powder and you v: 
better results. 

MANUlf ACTUKKIl BY 

D. & L. BLADE. 



ASK YOUR GROCER FOR 



Slide's If ieraaa Spies 

which are ground from the best spices grown, and ai 
fectly Pure. 

ONCE CSE THE 

m&ic&mw&w s&iems. 

and you will use do other. 

3D. & L. SL-A-IDIE, 

Factory, 279 to 283 Broadway, Cheliea. 
Office, 13 India St., Boston. 
Mills at Revere. 



1 



132 ADVERTISEMENTS. 

ROBT B. CARPENTER. JOSEPH CORNELL. S. J. CORNELL. 

OFFICE OF 

CARPENTER, CORNELL & CO., 

Wholesale Grocers $ Manufacturers, 

37, 39 & 41 Jay Street, Near West, 

P. O. Box 1049. NEW YORK. 



«^»»» 



SPECIALTIES.— Kellogg's Salad Dressing, Vail's Extracts, 
Puck Tomatoes, and faultless brands of Canned Goods. 

KELLOGG'S SALAD DRESSING— 1» made from the *nest im- 
ported Olive Oil, Mustard, Vinegar, and fresh Jersey Eggs. In 
quality it surpasses anything ever offered to the trade. It is 
delicious on Lettuce, Cucumbers, Celery, Lobster, etc., etc. 
The style of bottle is new and very attractive. 

VAIL'S FLAVORING EXTRACTS— Are too well known to need 
any remarks. 

FUCK TOMATOES— Are Red Ripe, Whole Meats, Solid Packed; 
the finest quality of goods packed ; every can guaranteed. 

FAULTLESS BRANDS OF CANNED GOODS-Represents the 

choicest grades of Fruits and Vegetables packed. 

For sale in Chelsea by GEO. B. GUILD & CO. 
In Charlestown by JOHN MULLET, 

H. P. STEVENS, 
Messrs. RAE & SON, 
A. N. SWALLOW. 



.1 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 

1884 
ANNOUNCEMENT. 



MERRILL&MORRISC 

256 Broadway and 34 & 35 Third St 

CHELSEA, MASS., 

Hare now completed all their arrangements In their imment 

house, and are ready to show the largest complete slock 
eyerj department, of the following goods, viz. : 

FURNITURE 



CARPETINGS, 

Axminsteri, Velvets, Brussels, Tapestries, Three-Plys, Kiddern 
Oil Cloths in narrow widths, and sheet goods, 

AN ENDLESS VARIETY OF ELEGANT PAPER HANC 

We also have in stock a fine assortment of 

Cutlery, Crockery, Glass and Silver-plated W 

In onr Upholstery Department we employ only the most coi 
workmen. Goods delivered free of charge. 

PRICES AS LOW AS CAN BE FOUND IN BOSTO 



ADVERTISEMENTS . 



BUY DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTUI 



ALL INTERMEDIATE PROFITS SATEI 



Having placed in our Retail Department a large am 
of our Standard Goods, we are offering them to the par 
of Carpets at the following very low prices : 

Royal Velvets, ------ 

9 Frame Body Brussels, - - - - - 

Tapestries, - - - - - 65 and 

Three-Plys, ------- 

Extra Snpernnes, - - - - 65 and 

Ingrains, - - - - - 37 1-2 and 

English Sheet Oil Cloths, - - - - 

These goods will be found to be as advertised and a 
ranted. 



J. & J. DOBSON, 

525 and 527 Washington Str 
BOSTON. 



r 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



Consult this Book for TASTE in tie Culinary A 



Visit T. J. COO LEY 

For Taste in 

PIKE CLOTHID 



While the first is necessary for the promotion of health, the 
an absolute necessity if yon desire to gratify that lauds 
ambition 

"TO MAKE A FINE APPEARA> 

In order to successfully accomplish this object, 

VISIT THE PEOPLE'S CLOTHIER 

34 Elm Street, Westflold, Mass. 

Shepard, Norwell $ 

THE BEST CLASS 

dry~g6oe 

AT THE 

LOWEST PBICE: 
130 Winter Street, 
BOSTON". 



ADVERTISEMENTS ■ 



WHEELEp WILSOPF&. 



Factory and Principal Office: 
BRIDGEPORT, CONN. 

New England Agency : 
S94 WASHINQTON ST., BOSTON. 

(Next door to Globe Theatre.) 



See the improred No. 8, with new wood work. Now the handio 
m well a* the best family Machine in the world. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



Dr. J. H. PORTER'S 

GREAT HEALING VITAL 

Excels any other remedy on this Continent for the Curt 
the following Complaints, viz. : 

RHEUMATISM, NEURALGIA, SCIA' 

Liver, Kidney, Lang and Chest Disease 
(including Asthma), 

Weakness of the Spine and Limbs, 

Stiff and Lame Joints, Contracted 
Limbs, Diphtheria, 

ALL PAINS AMD ACHES in any part of the body, from an) 

Will atop the progress of Cancers and Tumors in 
their first stages. 

Good in any case; in fact, is a GENERAL AND GRA 
CIFIC. Perfectly safe to use, even for the weakest infant, 
no turpentine or alcohol, or any poison whatever. WILL N 
THE FINEST FABRIC. WILL NOT EXPLODE O 
FIRE. Is taken into the system by absorption. Frici 
and $1.00. 

Dr. J. II. Farter has used this oil in his practice for i 
twelve years. One of the oldest druggists of Chelsea, Dr. 
■ays he has sold it quite freely and has also uttd it with goo 
and believes it to be a very valuable remedy. Can be L 
wholesale druggists in Boston end New York. Protected 
States laws. Prepared by Dr. J. H. Porter (in medical pi 
more than forty years). Residence, No. 21 Cross St., CI 
District (near Bunker Hill monument). 

Can be found in Chelsea at 

Dr. JOHN BUCK'S, 

267 BROADWAY. 



ADVERTISEMENTS . 



ESTABLISHED WU 



The Sawyer Crystal Blue Co 



132 MILK STREET, 

BOSTON. 



Sawyeb's Crystal Blub, exclusively manufactured b 
this Company, is absolutely pure and never spots in washing 
It is handy, always ready, does not change with climate 



Those who care for economy need it. 
Those who study neatness will use it. 
Be sure and call for the red-top box with blue label. 

WHY TEE OCEAN IS BLUE. 

There is an old legend that once a ship-load of Sawyer' 
Crystal Blue was sunk in mid-ocean, indelibly tinging tb 
waves. You are not obliged to believe it. But had it occurred 
the same beautiful azurine tint would have been obtained 
Please give it a trial. 



r 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



M, M. PIGOTT & SON, 



MANUFACTURERS OF 



— ■ JteH 



■ *• 

Nos. 71 and 73 Broad Street, 

ILlI.Fuon. BOSTON. ■. Union, Ji. 



ADVERTISEMENTS, 



Allen & Roweli 

25 TT^iziter Street, 

BOSTON, 

Srill in the front rank, produce the most artistic an 
skillfully Gobbed 

Photographs, 

Life* 



Book Illustrations In Ca; 



Instantaneous Pictures of the little ones, taken on thci 
bra led quick dry plates. 

Accessible by elevator. 

Easy for old or young. 

Headquarters for Amateur Photographers, where a 
latest wrinkles can be learned. 

Amateur printing done in the best manner. 

l>ry plates and carbon materials supplied. 



^LLEN & ROWELL, 

No. 25 Winter St., Boston. 



WT^ 



*■&. 



AD VERTISEMEN TS . 



141 



COBB, BATES & YEBJA 

GROCERS, 



•AND- 






FINE FRENCH, GERMAN AND ENGLISH 

GOODS, &c. 



LARGEST STORES 



-ADD- 



LARGEST ASSORTMENT 

— IH 

NEW ENGLAND. m 



COBB, BATES & YERXA, 

680 to 692 Washington St., Boston. 



-AL80- 



4 Bowdoin Square, Boston. 

6 & 8 Faneuil Hall Square, Boston. 

97 So. Main St., Fall River. 

27 & 29 Broadway, Taunton, 



-AND- 



200 BROADWAY, CHELSEA. 






♦M 



^ 






V.- J 

-•r-tf&r 

-Mi 
••.'•^ 



.• v • 

' 'V- 












".•J. 



&1 



y>i 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 

NOTICE I 

hag been recently called to the fact that owing 
REFUTATION that the 

"W.W. Carr" Graham Flc 

Ha{ attained for being alieayi uniform in quality, and 

the belt there is in the market, that some 

dealers are telling an 

INFERIOR AND CHEAPER ARTICL 

Representing It to be the Celebrated "W. W. Carr" Graham 
The Manufacturer would call the attention of parties 
using it to the following Brand: 

^ SUPERIOR * 



GRAHAM FLOUR. 

Which is clearly marked on the the head of every barrel And 
and request parties using this Flour to 

Be particular and see that an inferior article is not given 

The genuine "W. W. Carr" Graham Flour will always suit 
BREAD, GEMS, MORNING CAKES, &c, it is unsurpasse 

STONE & CAMPBELL, 

Manufacturers, Rochester, N. T. 



•-*i 



**• ^p 



ADVERTISEMENTS* 148 



IF YOU CONTEMPLATE 

Purchasing any Furniture, 

WE EARNESTLY INVITE YOU TO VISIT OUR STORE, , 
AND EXAMINE OUR STOCK OF 

Parlor, Chamber, and Dining-Room 
FURNITURE 



AND 



®i©@H@ 



WE ALSO KEEP A FULL LINE OF 

Plushes, Silks, Turcomans, 

And other styles of goods for Upholstery and Draperies. 

We make a specialty of medium andjtret-clate 

Parlor Suits, Draperies and Shade Work. 



All our custom work is made in our own store, so we know we can 
give our customers just what we represent to them, at moderate prices. 
Hoping to receive a call from you, we are, 

Very respectfully, 

JOHN" B. SOUTHER & CO., 

7 & 8 HAYMARKET SQUARE, 

BOSTON. 

Opp. B. & M. R. R. Depot. 



:1« 



'<** 



:\ 



144 ADVERTISEMENTS. 

CARPETS, 

jEtM j§9$llgig 9 

pXL CLOTHS 

LINOLEUM 

Of the best grades and selected private patterns of 
leading manufacturers 

LOWER THAN THE ADVERTISED PRICES 

OF UPTOWN STORES. 



' 96 Hanover St., 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



DONTBEAFRAID MAMMA! 
HE WILL NOT TEAR HISOOTHES. 

mu are"wear-resisting') 

"KNOCKABOUT" 

(PATENTED) 

SUITS, 

For Boys* play or school use (3 to 10 years.) " Uotearable " 
and "wear-resisting" fabrics; all wool. "Cavalry knees." 
iron-like service. The best Suits ever introduced for hard 
wear. $5.00. 

A.. SHTJM^JST & CO., 

Jobbers, Manufacturers and Retailers, 

440 WASHINGTON STREET, 

BOYS' RETAIL DEPARTMENT. 

BOSTON, ... - MASS. 



146 



ADVERTISEMENTS . 



L. ARTHUR & CO., 



Commission Mgrchaats 

121 ATLANTIC AVENUE (Ross Market), 

BOSTON. 



EGGS AND PRODUCE A. SPECIALTY. 



JEFFERSON MARKET. 



H. P. STEVENS, 

DEALER IN 

Provisions, Fruit Groceries, 



AXD 



SKIP STORES, 



POULTRY A SPECIALTY. 



CORNER CHELSEA AND HENLEY STREETS, 

Charlestown District, BOSTON. 



Goods Delivered in Chelsea. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 




rfBH 

■ti&g'i 






III 



a 1 is 



6 !: 

5 1 

I 9 E-s 



■3 5 F 

if! 



Rjj s 



II 



5! 













% i 



| "P'S^lsSBsi' *?!»- 1 1» 1 



k 



I- 



h 



r 



i- 



si 



Ik 







■k * 



I? 



• *■: 



t 



J! 



*«w 




