LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 



' 'Shelf. J? 



HOW 



To Make Home Happy 



— A— 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HAND BOOK. 



Comprising : — Eminently useful and practical suggestions upon 
Home Furnishing ; Cheerful Decorations; Economy 
in Necessities ; Rules of Polite Deportment ; What 
to do in Emergencies ; Taking care of Children ; 
General Hints upon Various Subjects ; Social 
Games ; Amusements, Entertainments, etc., etc., with 



COPIOUS VALUABLE ILLUSTRATIONS. 

I 

1/ 

Edited by 



A SKILLED CORPS OF AUTHORITIES. 

to. 



JUL ... i 



^34 






THE COTTAGE LIBRARY PUBLICATION HOUSE, 

Philada., New York, Chicago, Cincinnati, Boston, St. Louis, 

Kansas City, Atlanta, San Francisco. 

i 
1884. 






r> 



\ 



Entered, according to Act of Congress, 

By Charles S. Archer. 

1884. 



PREFACE. 



Not every place where one may sleep and eat is worthy 
to be called a home. About home there are the ideas of 
comfort, repose, peace, content. Where these are wanting 
none can be at home. So ill-furnished and ill-managed may 
be one's abode that it is more a prison than a place of rest. 
Such a place is not a home. 

No external surroundings can guarantee a soul at rest. 
Some people are unhappy amid the greatest luxury. Many 
a sleepless night is passed on a bed of down. Many a life 
of misery is passed in royal mansions. But yet it remains 
true that other things being equal, those persons are happiest 
whose wants and tastes are most fully met. 

The problem of making home happy cannot be solved by 

any one line of answers. Many sources must contribute to 

that coveted attainment and these sources are considered in 

this volume. There are Necessities for every happy home, 

and these are first discussed. There are Furnishings also, 

some essential and some otherwise, but all these need our 

v 



VI PREFACE. 

attention. There are Decorations also for homes, by which 
they may be so embellished and beautified that their charm 
is greatly increased. There is Deportment, that mysterious 
but mighty manner which at a glance discloses the true 
gentleman, or the clumsy clown. There is Hygiene — that 
care of children and of others whereby health, the foundation 
of happiness, is assured. There are Emergencies to be met 
that needless suffering may be shut out, and wise treatment 
secured promptly. Games and Amusements form an impor- 
tant part of all real Home Life also, and if after all these 
points are considered anything remains unsaid, General 
Hints can happily cover it. This broad sweep of needed 
knowledge is covered in this comprehensive volume. 

That a book treating all these points will do much to 
make Home Happy, and will therefore be heartily welcomed, 
is fully believed by 

The Publishers. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



PAGE. 

PREFATORY i_i 4 

PART I.— HOME NECESSITIES, 15 

1. Work and Help, 16 

2. Ventilation, 22 

3. Warming, 26 

4. Illumination, 35 

5. Sanitary Conditions, 41 

PART II.— HOME FURNISHING, 47 

1. Standard Furniture, 49 

2. Art Furniture, 54 

3. Combination Furniture, 412 

PART III.— HOME DECORATION, 79 

1. Fixed Internal Decorations, 82 

i. Elegant Flooring, 83 

ii. Beautiful Walls, 91 

iii. Beautiful Ceilings, 93 

iv. Stained Glass Windows, 104 

2. Portable Internal Decorations, 109 

i. Carvings, Pictures, and Curtains, no 

ii. Decorations from Nature, 463 

iii. Ladies' Handiwork, 146 

3. Exterior Decorations, 166 

PART IV.— POLITE DEPORTMENT, 185 

i. Where to look for Models, 187 

ii. The real Gentleman and Lady, 188 

vii 



Vlll * TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

iii. Personal Habits, 189 

iv. Habits of Speech, 190 

v. Affectation, 191 

vi. Dress, 192 

vii. Mourning Attire, 193 

viii. Perfumes, 194 

ix. Politeness at Home, 194 

x. A Domestic Picture, 194 

xi. Away from Home, 199 

xii. Introductions, 199 

xiii. Salutations and Greetings, . . * 202 

xiv. Hand Shaking, 203 

xv. Undue Familiarity, 203 

xvi. Conversation, 204 

xvii. Formal Calls, 207 

xviii. Visiting, 208 

xix. Visiting-cards, 209 

xx. Receptions, 210 

xxi. Dinners, 211 

xxii. After Dinner, 213 

xxiii. Marriage Anniversaries, 214 

xxiv. Courtship, 214 

xxv. Weddings, 215 

xxvi. Public Places, 215 

xxvii. Traveling, „ 217 

xxviii. Correspondence, 218 

xxix. Notes, 220 

xxx. Acceptance, 221 

xxxi. Regrets, 221 

xxxii. Notes of Introduction, 221 



PART V.— CARE OF CHILDREN, 225 

1. Hereditary Influences, 227 

2. First Care of a Child, 228 

3. Suitable Clothing, . 229 

4. Suitable Food, 231 

5. Value of Sunshine, 232 

6. Good Ventilation, 233 

7. Treatment of Ailings, 235 

8. Bad Habits, 236 

9. Horrible Stories, 237 

10. Soothing Sirups, 238. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. IX 

PAGE. 

ii. Teething, 239 

12. Early Schooling, 239 

13. Physical Development, 241 

14. Home Government, 242 

PART VI.— TRYING EMERGENCIES, 243 

1. Emergency by Sickness or Accident, 245 

2. Emergency by Fire, 261 

3. Emergency by Railroad Casualty, 262 

4. Accidents on Ice, 262 

PART VII.— GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC., 263 

1. Out-Door Games, 265 

2. Board Games, 272 

3. Card Games 275 

4. Mental Games, 275 

PART VIII.— GENERAL HINTS, 299 

INDEX, 307 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



The Home Circle. — Frontispiece. 



PAGE. 

Cheap ventilation 23 

Low-down grate 27 

Modern heating-stove 28 

Section of heating-stove ... 29 

Section of portable heater ... 30 

Gas-heating stove (two cuts) . . 3^ 

Gas-heating stove 34 

Modern brass candlesticks ... 35 

Bracket student-lamp 35 

Artisan's lamp 36 

Parlor student-lamp 37 

Parlor- table lamps (two cuts) . 38 

Gas generator in vault .... 39 

Air-pump of gas generator . . 39 

The Germicide (two cuts) ... 44 

Weather-strips (three cuts) . . 46 

Hat, cane, and whip-rack ... 5° 

Hat and coat-rack 5 1 

Hat and coat-rack 5 2 

Canterbury 53 

Music portfolios ........ 54 

Carved pedestal 55 

Jardiniere stand $6 

Mahogany and brass stand . . 57 

Shakespeare table ...... $8 

Boot-racks (two cuts) 59 

Ornamental easel 60 

Ladies' workstand 61 

Elaborate wall-cabinet .... 62 

P>rick-a-brac shelf 63 

Hanging-cabinet 64 

Corner bracket 65 

Wall bracket ........ 65 

Pocket easel ........ 66 

Jioman hanging-lamp .... 67 

Ped-room set 68 

Parlor cabinet 70 



PAGE. 

Cabinet bedstead 71 

Desk washstand 72 

Portable reservoir washstand . . 73 

Telescope folding bedstead . . 74 

Telescope folding bedstead . . 75 

Telescope folding bedstead . . 76 

Lounge 77 

Tesselated pavement 82 

Marble staircase 8^ 

Floor borders and corners ... 84 

Fireplace tiling 85 

Wood floor-fillings ...... 86 

Patterns for wainscoting ... 87 

Scinde rug 88 

Wood borderings with centres . 89 

Flooring and wainscoting ... 90 

Frieze patterns (two cuts) ... 91 

Easter lily wall pattern .... 92 

Ceiling decoration ...... 93 

Egyptian wall decoration ... 94 

Chinese decoration 95 

Japanese decoration 96 

Elegantly frescoed ceiling ... 98 

Moorish ceiling 99 

Carved headboard 100 

Throne room of Windsor Castle 101 

Banqueting room 102 

Vestibule lamps (two cuts) . . 103 

Stained glass window .... 104 

Stained glass window . ... 105 

Imitation stained glass transoms 106 

Imitation stained glass window . 107 
Imitation stained glass panel . .108 

Deoorated apartment 109 

Brass umbrella stands (two cuts) no 

Hall of Longfellow's Mansion . in 

Picture gallery of Malmaison . 112 

X 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



XI 



PAGE. 

Jardiniere stand 113 

Jardiniere stand 1 14 

Curtained doorway 115 

A peep at elegance 116 

Longfellow's library 1 17 

Royal bedchamber 120 

Flowers in the home . . . . . 121 

Fancy Flower-pots (five cuts) . 122 

Bay-window garden 123 

Square bay-window garden . . 124 

Lily of the valley 125 

Hyacinth bulb 126 

Miniature gypsy kettle .... 127 

Vase for flowers 127 

Stemmed flower 128 

Ornamental boquet paper ... 128 

Floral letters (three cuts) . . . 130 

Pampas plume 131 

Basket of ferns 131 

Transparency of flowers . . . 132 

Box aquarium 133 

Elaborate aquarium 1 35 

Parlor rockery 136 

Aquarium and flower-stand . . 137 

Rustic fernery 138 

Fern case jardinere 139 

Vine-covered aquarium .... 141 

Terra-cotta hanging-basket . . 142 

Hanging-basket with drip . . . 143 

Elegant hanging-basket .... 143 

Gourd hanging-basket .... 145 

Miniature fruit-table 1 47 

Ornamental cover for table . . 148 

Visiting-card stand 149 

Lady's work-basket 150 

Circular scrap-basket 151 

Square scrap-basket 15 1 

Corner scrap-basket 152 

Embroidered fire-screen . . . . 152 

Ornamental wall pocket . . . . 153 



PAGE. 

Hand-bags for ladies (two cuts) . 154 

Stationery or needle book ... 154 

Ornamental wall cushion . . . 155 

Pincushions (two cuts) . . . . 156 

Toilets (two cuts) 157 

Shearalon sofa 158 

Upholstered bedstead ■ 159 

Elaborate sofa 160 

Canopied bedstead 161 

Painted vase (two cuts) .... 162 

Plaque with open centre . . . 1 63 

Plaque with flowers 163 

Vases (two cuts) 164 

Pitcher, flowers in relief .... 165 

Pyramidal vase 166 

Vase on crane pedestal .... 167 

Berlin vase (iron) 168 

Berlin vase (zinc) 168 

Egyptian vase 169 

Antique vase 169 

Vase on rustic base 170 

Pruning a hedge 171 

Full-grown hedge 17 1 

Rustic chair 172 

Rustic bench 172 

Gypsy kettle 173 

Portable aviary 174 

Garden of Sultan's palace . . . 175 

Vine-covered French dwelling . 176 

Canaiy vine 177 

Pyramid of flowers 1 77 

Caladium plants 178 

Gardens of Fontainebleau . . . 180 

Italian garden 182 

Ribbon bed 182 

Plan of ribbon beds 182 

Roman villa 183 

Circular rockery 184 

Rustic flower stands (two cuts) . 1 84 

" Would I were a boy again . . 297 



At night returning, every labor sped, 
He sits him down the monarch of a shed ; 
Smiles by his cheerful fire, and round surveys 
His children's looks, that brighten at the blaze ; 
While his lov'd partner, boastful of her hoard, 
Displays her cleanly platter on the board. 

Oliver Goldsmith. 



FIRST DEPARTMENT. 



HOME NECESSITIES. 



Now stir the fire, and close the shutters fast, 
Let fall the curtain, wheel the sofa round, 
And, while the bubbling and loud-hissing urn 
Throws up a steamy column, and the cups, 
That cheer but not inebriate, wait on each, 
So let us welcome peaceful evening in. 

Cowper. 



Home Necessities. 



TT7HAT some regard as a necessity others consider a mere 
VV superfluity. The old story tells of a boy who did 
not want shoes in summer time as he could go barefoot, but 
he was actually suffering for a breast-pin. His conceptions 
of things did not accord with the common sense of the 
world however. He was a crank. He pined for the useless. 
Much that is brought into our homes is not needful in any 
sense, — much less is it needful as ministering directly to 
health or comfort. 

That which exposes a household to open or insidious 
influences which damage health should be at once eradi- 
cated. This riddance is certainly a necessity. Ventilation, 
warming, illumination, and sanitary care in general, with all 
the work and help needed to preserve them in most effective 
operation are necessities. Without these home becomes a 
feeder to the hospital, or a minister to disease. It lays 
foundations for useless and miserable lives, rather than for 
those of robust activity and wide beneficence. 

It is a shame that home should ever become the helper 
to harm, damaging those who dwell in its sacred precincts. 
Rather should it minister to all that is pure and healthful 
to body and to mind, and to such considerations all who 
control home affairs should studiously address themselves. 

15 



I.— WORK AND HELP. 

rhe domestic struggle; " flats; " regularity; forethought; 
supervision; accountability; kitchens; conveniences; 
kitchen company; general hints. 

THERE is no housekeeper who will not weary of the 
household work if she attempt to do it in person ; nor 
is there one whose patience will not be sorely tried if 
she attempt to do it by proxy. Physical exhaustion on the 
one side, and mental exhaustion on the other, are the Scylla 
and Charybdis between which the good housewife struggles 
to guide the domestic craft. Some make fairly good pro- 
gress in the effort, but more are sorely tried and buffeted, 
while many finally go down in the whirlpool of boarding- 
house or hotel life, or are shattered and scattered as families. 

The comparatively. new method of " flats," as conducted 
in New York, Chicago, and San Francisco, is a Parisian 
idea adapted to American necessities. In immense struc- 
tures, with eight or ten floors, apartments are fitted up usually 
in sumptuous style, with every convenience and luxury. 
Elevators carry the residents and callers to any floor, so that 
the ninth floor is virtually as good as the first. The hall 
ways and apartments are heated and cared for by house 
servants ; the meals are served a la carte, in a general din- 
ing-hall or restaurant, or are served in the rooms if desired; 
so that the only care the occupants have is the incidental 
charge of their own rooms and their social duties. This 
method avoids all personal labor and all care about servants, 
and yet each family has its own home. 

Of course there are no yards or gardens in such places. 
When there are little children in a family the opportunities 

16 



WORK AND HELP. 17 

are rather restricted. The old home idea is wholly 
lost in such a dwelling-place. Domestic duties are in utter 
disuse. Home cooking has no foothold. Home decoration 
may be practiced to a limited extent, and home courtesy 
may prevail ; but after all, the home life barely exists. 

In the old-fashioned home life, regularity is a prime factor. 
Without it all will speedily run to disorder. To do things 
regularly requires forethought and planning. What to do 
and when to do it, must both be clearly understood. Then 
the predetermined plans must be rigidly adhered to and 
carried through. Servants see at a glance whether the head 
of the house " means business " or not. Any number of 
orders may be issued, but if the servants know that it means 
nothing, they do not concern or bestir themselves. Orders 
should be few as possible, but they should be well con- 
sidered and explicit, and when once issued they should be 
conformed to absolutely. 

Vaporing, scolding, fretting, and storming about the house 
only lower the lady of the establishment in the esteem of her 
employees. Her superiority must appear in her calm delib- 
eration and her intelligently formed decisions. But 
these need not be issued in an arbitrary, dictatorial form, 
The American spirit does not brook much of this. Help 
worth having can suit itself readily in other places, and such 
help will not submit to arbitrary or tyrannical treatment. 

One of the best advisers of young housekeepers says to 
them : " Never, except in cases of extreme emergency, 
allow Monday's washing to be put off till Tuesday, Tues- 
day's ironing till Wednesday, or Wednesday's finishing up 
and setting to rights till Thursday. Leave Thursday for 
extra work ; or when that is not required, for a resting day 
or a half holiday, and as a preparation for the up-stairs 
sweeping and dusting of Friday, and the down-stairs baking 
and scrubbing of Saturday." In this advice all good house- 
wives will concur, though the men of the house, to quote 



18 HOME NECESSITIES. 

one such, " cannot see why so arbitrary and inflexible a rule 
should be imposed upon the domestic economy." 

Forethought will prove a great help in saving time, fuel, 
labor, and temper. For example : Mix bread at night, and 
it will be ready to bake with that " first fire," which always 
makes the oven hot in the morning. 

Prepare fruit over night, so that pies or other prepara- 
tions for dessert can be quickly made, and baked imme- 
diately after the bread. 

Prepare hash for breakfast over night. 

Have the kitchen and dining-room put in order before 
going to bed. 

Have kindlings and whatever is requried for building 
needed fires laid out ready, and the fire in the kitchen raked 
down, so that it can be started in the shortest possible time. 
This is not only a saving in the morning, but it will be 
found very useful in case of illness in the night when a fire 
may be required at a moment's notice. 

Much work is saved by forethought in purchases. If 
possible, lay in winter supplies ; buy starch, sugar, soap, tea, 
etc., etc., in quantities reasonably large, and deliver them to 
the kitchen as needed ; it may be by the week, or twice a 
week. It should not be so often as to become irksome, not 
so seldom as to lose sight of what is going on. Dried 
soap will prove an immense saving by its hardness, as com- 
pared with the soft, fresh bars for which the servant runs 
twice or thrice a week. Money and labor both are saved 
by such forethought as this. 

Constant supervision is essential to securing good work. 
Eye-service is the bane of our laboring classes. See that 
orders are obeyed ; see that things are put to proper uses ; 
see that house-cloths do not become dish-cloths, or vice 
versa ; that hand-towels do not become cup-towels, or vice 
versa ; that combs, brushes, etc., etc., are kept out of the 
cooking apartment ; that the cellar broom is not used on 



WORK AMD HELP. 19 

the parlor carpet, or vice versa. Indeed, there is no end to 
the points that the housewife must supervise, if she be 
determined to have her work well done. 

Accountability for articles belonging to each department 
must be insisted on with every servant. No article must be 
allowed to disappear without a sufficient reason. Nor must 
anything be out of its proper place, except as necessary. 
Explain to each new servant the nature of this accountability 
and hold every one steadily to it. 

It is said that American kitchens are the worst in the 
world. Work is very materially promoted by means of a 
good kitchen. It should be roomy, light, and capable of 
good ventilation without sending its odors and its steam 
through the house. It should have plenty of good, con- 
venient closets for all that pertains to the work there done. 
It should have direct access to the fuel, store-rooms, or cel- 
lar where provisions are stored, and convenient access to the 
dining-room. A window communication is best between 
kitchen and dining-room, using a waiting-maid to receive. 

The conveniences of range, hot and cold water, sink, etc., 
are desirable, of course, but in some places they are not 
attainable. A dish-drainer is a great convenience. It 
may be made of a grooved board, slightly inclined so as to 
drain the water back into the sink or dish-pan. Dishes 
laid upon this as washed, that they may drain a few minutes, 
will be found in much better condition for wiping, and so 
labor will be saved. An elevated strip must surround all 
but the lower edge of this drainer to prevent the dishes 
from slipping off. 

Kitchen company seriously interferes with work and 
service. The employees of a house are social beings. They 
have their associations and must continue to have them, but 
much visiting destroys effective management. It demoral- 
izes servants and delays work. Company should be re- 
stricted to certain convenient hours. The indiscriminate fur- 



20 LOME NECESSITIES. 

nishing of meals to their visitors by servants should not be 
permitted. Permission at that point should be asked of the 
lady of the house, and she, not the servant, should judge 
whether the case is exceptional and allowable. Interfer- 
ence in the presence of the " guests " would probably create 
a scene, but a good understanding at the outset would be 
as likely to preclude all trouble. Indeed, so few housewives 
know their own minds in domestic management, that the 
servants are little to blame if they too are ignorant of " the 
lady's " mind. Be reasonable with servants ; yea, be gen- 
erous ; but be explicit and decided. 

After this extended discussion, it still remains true that 
the thoughful, self-poised, kindly, but decided housewife 
will be the only one who will get the needed work done, and 
will find all her " help " really helpful. It seems wise to 
conclude this chapter with a few carefully selected 

HINTS ON HOME WORK. 

Aprons. — Have a good assortment of full-sized aprons 
which can be washed. They should be long and wide. 

Brooms. — Four brooms should be in simultaneous use in a 
house. The best for the parlor and best rooms ; the second 
best for the sitting-room and dining-room ; the third for 
the kitchen ; the last for the cellar, yard, etc. When the best 
broom shows wear, replace it with a new one, and " retire " 
the worst, moving the others back one place. Hang up 
brooms by a loop, or better, by a broom holder. (See Chap- 
ter xxi, Part I.) 

Closets, etc. — Scrub them out thoroughly and frequently. 
Cover dish-shelves with clean white papers ; the edges may 
be scolloped, or " pinked," if desired. 

Dish-cloths. — Old towels, crash, napkins, table-cloths, etc., 
make splendid dish-cloths. 



WORK AND HELP. 21 

Dusters. — Feather dusters throw dust from one place to 
another. They are poor tools, except for the lightest kind 
of work. Cloths are preferable. These should be shaken 
out-of-doors frequently, or washed. Damp chamois skins 
are best for articles not liable to damage by dampness. 

Fuel. — When cooking is not going on, the fire should be 
slacked by closing the dampers, etc. Coal should never be 
piled high in the stoves. It chokes the draft, makes heat 
where it does no good, burns out the stove tops, and wastes 
willfully. Ashes should be sifted and picked over. A large 
saving will be effected thus. 

Holders. — Iron-holders, and others for hot pots, kettles, 
etc., will save time, labor, and burns. If such conveniences 
do not exist, towels will be substituted by the " help." 

Ironing Tools. — Keep the cloths, etc., in good, orderly 
shape in a clean, dry place. The irons must be kept free 
from moisture. 

Paper and String. — Lay all such together in a convenient 
place, nicely straightened out, ready for use at any time. If 
too much accumulates, sell it or burn it. 

Pie-board. — This, with the roller, should be put away 
clean every time, in a scrupulously clean place. 

Pots and Kettles. — Put away thoroughly cleaned and well 
dried. Scald out coffee and tea-pots frequently with soda- 
water. Keep each in its proper place. 

Refrigerators. — Scrub and air these frequently. The 
purest and best makes need such treatment. 

Water Coolers. — Scrub and air these. Sediment will col- 
lect which must be unwholesome and unsavory. 

Whisks. — Use a clean, fine whisk for upholstered furniture. 
Have others for the stairs, corners of rooms, etc. All these 
in addition to whisks used for clothing. 



II.— VENTILATION. 

ventilation needed; how to get it j by windows; by a 
shaft; with the heat; facts and figures. 

FRESH air is essential to healthful and happy human 
existence. It is so free and abundant that there should 
be no lack anywhere or at any time. Out-of-doors we 
get it without care or planning; but to get it in-doors, and 
so to get it that nobody is harmed, that nobody catches 
cold or gets the rheumatism, that is the problem. 

Every living being gives off the deadly carbonic acid gas 
continually, and at the same time consumes the vitalizing 
oxygen. Lamps, fires, combustion of all sorts, does the 
same, some forms of these being more active than others in 
the emission of carbonic acid gas. For every apartment 
where people live and fires burn there must be ventilation. 
Fresh air must come in, and foul air must go out. 

In cold weather, this must be so done that a reasonable 
warmth in the room shall be maintained, and it must always 
be so done that chilling drafts shall not strike persons in 
such way as to check perspiration and produce sickness. 

Ventilation in large buildings is usually provided for by 
forcing fresh air through all its ramifications. The air is 
admitted in such ways as shall most effectually diffuse it 
through the building, avoiding all blasts or sensible currents. 
If mechanical means are employed to force air, the problem 
is comparatively simple. Drive in enough air and distribute 
it with judgment, and it is all done. 

But dwelling-houses do not admit of these elaborate 

22 



VENTILA TION. 



23 



arrangements except in rare cases. How can they be venti- 
lated ? The commonest way is to open the window. If a 
wind be stirring, or if the temperature within and without the 
room vary much, currents of air will at once set in, and an 
open window will do the desired work. But if the atmos- 
phere be still and sultry, the windows may be open, and yet 
no interchange of air take place. The top of the window 
allows egress to the heated air. The bottom allows ingress 
to the colder, external air. To ventilate a room, both open- 
ings of the window are needed. If windows are only on 
one side of a room, a door upon the other side must be 
open to do the work properly. Currents which would be 
too strong, may be well broken by the ordinary shutter 
blinds, the angle given the slats determining the direction 
of currents to a great extent, and so breaking their volume 
as to render them practically harmless. 

An easy adaptation of ordinary windows for a good ven- 
tilating purpose is secured by inserting 
on the sill, where the bottom sash shuts 
down, a piece of wood the thickness of the 
sash, and ' long as the sash is wide, but 
about three inches high ; the effect being 
that the sash, shutting down on this strip, 
shall stand three inches above the sill and 
yet the bottom will be closed tight. The 
displacement between the upper and lower 
sash will leave an opening by which cur- 
rents of air will pass in and out, ventilating 
the room very fairly, and that, too, with- A CHEAP METH on 
out any perceptible draft. OF ventilation. 

Another simple method is to tack muslin or ornamental 
cloth across the bottom of the window frame, inside the 
room, but not against the sash. The window may then be 
raised. The muslin should rise three times the height of 
the opening of the window. The effect of this is to produce 




24 HOME NECESSITIES. 

an interchange of air, with positively no perceptible draft, 
even when the wind without is high. 

From the summit of the hallway, or open stairway of a 
house, it is well to carry an open pipe high above the roof, 
capped so as to keep out storm, and capable of being closed 
in the coldest weather. It will draw off the heated air of 
the house and render good service. 

A ventilating shaft is a great accessory to a house. It 
should be like a large flue, say two feet square, and by in- 
serting glass at the top it may be used for light also. Into 
such a shaft openings from the several rooms may be made, 
also from water-closets and reservoirs. This shaft should 
be placed next to a chimney flue which is always in use, so 
that the shaft itself will be warm enough to produce move- 
ment in the air. Or a surer way is to have at its base a 
heating apparatus of gas, oil, or steam, by means of which 
the current of air may be moved in the shaft and the entire 
house be ventilated. The outlet of such a shaft must be so 
constructed that snow and rain will not drive in even when 
the windows in it are open. It should be capable of entire 
closing also by means of cords and pulleys. 

Every fire drawing its oxygen from a room, carries air 
out of the room, and this consumed air must be replaced 
through cracks or crevices, if by no better means. Some 
ventilation is always gained where such fires burn, therefore. 
But when they burn low, it is a chance that they will emit 
more injurious gases than the fresh air drawn in can coun- 
terbalance. 

All heating methods which throw warmed air into the 
room may become valuable methods of ventilation. If the 
air be drawn direct from a foul cellar they will be injurious. 
If the air be baked by contact with red-hot surfaces, it will 
be dry and to a great extent stripped of its oxygen. But 
take the air from without, if possible from the top of the 
house, by means of a cold-air flue ; heat this air by contact 



VENT1LA T10N. 



25 



with steam pipes or hot pipes, but not those which are red- 
hot, and you will have warm air and good air at one and 
the same time. Apertures or registers near the floor are 
needed in this case, by means of which cold air passes away. 
Near the floor the foul, heavy air settles also, which is driven 
out by the same means. Registers opening into a ventilat- 
ing shaft, as just described, form the best escape for impure 
air, as they carry it entirely out of the house. 

Some authorities recommend that ventilating openings be 
made directly into smoke-flues. Even if smoke and soot 
can be kept from entering the room where such a device is 
employed, which is doubtful, notwithstanding " traps " and 
other warranted contrivances, still every opening of this 
kind subtracts from the draft power of the fire below the 
opening, and hence is a disadvantage. The independent 
ventilation shaft is the most valuable help. 

To enforce the need of ventilation, it may be stated that a 
pound of coal burned requires for its combustion one hun- 
dred and forty-eight cubic feet of air. Every gas-burner 
consumes about thirty-six cubic feet per hour. A candle 
consumes about eleven cubic feet per hour. A healthy 
adult requires two hundred and fifteen cubic feet of air per 
hour. Combining these facts, the absolute necessity of a 
large supply of fresh air to every living-room is an easy 
demonstration. 



III.— WARMING. 

bonfires; fireplaces; franklin stoves; grates; low-down 
grates; modern stoves; heaters; gas stoves. 

IN the last chapter some points on the warming of houses 
have been touched. Ventilation and warming are sub- 
jects so closely related that they cannot be considered 
fully when apart. As in cooking, so in warming, the sim- 
plest method is the open fire, the mere bonfire in short. But 
from such a fire, it is an easy step to an inclosing structure 
which cuts off radiation of heat in useless directions and 
conducts smoke where it will do the least harm. On this 
principle the old-fashioned fireplaces were constructed. 
They did very little work in proportion to the fuel consumed, 
but where fuel was abundant that mattered little. Then, too, 
in such fires, at least one-half of the heat goes up the 
chimney, and some good authorities say that fifteen-six- 
teenths is thus lost. Such fires heat by direct radiation. 
Heat is thrown from them directly on the persons in the 
room, on the walls and other objects. These become heated, 
and in turn reflect heat so that all the contents of the room, 
atmosphere, and solid bodies-are thoroughly warmed at last. 
Until this completeness of heating is attained, however, one 
may be blistering his face while cold creeps run down his 
back. Then, too, such heat quickly falls off It is irregular, 
expensive, unsatisfactoiy. 

Benjamin Franklin made an improvement on the old warm- 
ing methods in the stoves which bear his name. He saved 
much of the heat which formerly escaped by making his 
stove to sit in the room, and the smoke to reach the chimney 

by a circuitous passage, as in a stove-pipe. This compelled 

26 



WARMING. 



27 



much escaping heat to give off its power in the room. The 
fireplace of this stove was inclosed with another casing of 
iron, through which air circulated and passed into the room 
in a heated condition. So he had all the direct radiation of 
the fire and of the heated parts of the stove, plus the air 
which was heated by passing through the hot chambers. 

Grates are simply an adaptation of the old fireplace to the 
later discovery of coal as a fuel. They are less open and 
therefore less wasteful, but all the side and back power of 
the fire is lost to the room so far as heating it is concerned. 
It passes off by conduction, and is lost in the walls. 

Low-down grates are a favorite feature for fall and spring 
uses in sitting-rooms, offices, etc. They heat by direct 
radiation only, but for the lighter purposes in warming they 
are desirable as being both beautiful and sufficiently useful. 

A fine specimen of these grates is shown in the accom- 
panying cut. It is made with handsome nickel-plated frame 
and trimmings. In its 



" throat " is a double valve 
arrangement, shown in the 
cut, which can be used as 
a blower in starting the 
fire, as a damper in reduc- 
ing the draft, or as a reflec- 
tor to throw the heat into 
the room. These grates 
have indeed become so 
popular that improvement 
upon improvement has 
been made, and decoration 




LOW-DOWN GRATE. 

has been added to decoration, until they seem absolutely 
perfect, and certainly they are very beautiful. 

Closed stoves heat the air by its contact with their heated 
surfaces. They are now made with mica doors or windows, 
through which the direct radiation also passes, and air 



28 



HOME NECESSITIES. 



chambers are added in which air is heated, so that stoves of 

an immense warming 
power, and withal 
very easy to manage, 
are now the standards. 
A specimen of such 
heating stoves is 
shown in the adjoin- 
ing engraving. Ex- 
ternally it is not at 
all displeasing to the 
eye. On the following 
page a sectional view 
of this same stove is 
shown, displaying the 
coal reservoir, or self- 
feeder, as it is some- 
times called; the dam- 
per; the cut-off draft 
in the upper part of 
|| the stove front; the 
|j cylinder and anti- 
(j| clinker grate, which 
lis a notable feature. 
S By opening the doors 
which surround this 
part of the stove, all 
debris can be removed 
from the grate, and a 
fresh, bright fire will 
be secured at once. 
By this means the fires 
need not be drawn 
through an entire sea- 
son. The fire cannot become choked. It is always clean. 




FIRST-CLASS MODERN HEATING-STOVE. 



WARMIXG. 



29 



The stove shown here has a sheet-iron top. For the sake 
of increased orna- 
mentation, the tops 
are usually made 
in cast-iron, with 
nickel -plated panels 
and embellishment. 
It is an open ques- 
tion which kind of 
top gives off the 
more heat. A tea- 
kettle attachment 
may be made just 
above the upper tier 
of doors if desired. 
By this contrivance 
tea may be boiled, 
and some other mi- 
nor culinary wants 
be met. A nickel- 
plated foot rail may j 
be placed around | 
the base, adding to | 
the beauty of the ( 
stove, and also to 
its utility. 

Fireplace heaters 
are favorites with 
many communities. 
Like a low-down | 
grate, they fill the jjBT. 
opening of the man- B 
tel, but thev are sectional view of modern heating- 

, , STOVE. 

constructed as heat- 
ers, with drums. They heat the room in which they are 




30 



HOME NECESSITIES. 



placed by direct radiation and heated air ; and to the room 
above heated air is supplied abundantly. These, like other 

modern stoves, are finished in 
very ornate styles. 

Hot-air furnaces have come 
into very general use. They 
combine so many advantages, 
and are withal so effective, 
that they well deserve the 
favor they have met. To 
elucidate the subject fully, a 
sectional view of a portable 
heater is given. This differs 
from the permanent or brick- 
inclosed heater chiefly in the 
method of inclosure, and in 
the capacity of the heating- 
drums. 

The time was when but lit- 
tle attention was given to the 
construction of heaters. Al- 
most anything with an iron 
cylinder and a casing around 
it, that would consume coal, 
was considered a sufficient heater. No matter how much 
dust and dirt were made in the cellar or basement, and con- 
veyed through the flues to the parlor or rooms above, it 
was nevertheless supposed to answer for heating purposes. 
But those days have passed away; careful and scientific study 
has been applied to the subject. 

One valuable point in the heater shown in the cut is that 
whereby all ashes and clinker can be removed from the fire-, 
pot without dropping the fire. This can be done with less 
trouble than it takes to rake the old kind of heaters, and a 
continuous fire be kept always fresh on the grate. By this 




SECTIONAL VIEW OF A PORTA 
BLE HEATER. 



WARMING. 31 

means the entire surface of the heater can be relied on for 
heat. In the old heaters, when the grate surface became 
covered with clinkers, and the cylinder half filled with ashes, 
only the upper surface afforded heat, which very often 
resulted in overheating the top and ruining the furnace. 

This heater is supplied with a magazine, making it a self- 
feeder. Another new feature is a radiating drum, and, in 
place of taking the damp, impure air from the cellar floor, 
with the dust and ashes, there is a cold air collar at the 
back of the heater so that a pipe can be attached, and pure, 
fresh air be brought from the outside of the building. 

At the base of the heater, on each side of the cylinder, 
are placed the water tanks, easy of access, where a sufficient 
quantity of water can be evaporated without boiling it. It 
also has a damper at the smoke-pipe. 

To all hot-air furnaces there are serious objections. They 
exhaust the moisture so completely that furniture is dried 
out and falls apart, and, worse than this, the moisture of the 
human system is so reduced that parched lips and difficulty 
of breathing often result. Furnace-heated air is drier than 
that ever heated in the midst of the Desert of Sahara. 
Evaporators may be introduced into the heaters and mois- 
ture may be restored again to the air, but a new danger 
arises. The sediment left by the constant evaporation of 
the water becomes unhealthy. This is demonstrated when, 
by reason of lowness of water in the evaporator, the sedi- 
ment begins to stew or to bake, in which case the house soon 
becomes rank with its offensive odors. The water-pan of 
the heater must be kept clean. Stewing or simmering 
animal or vegetable matter cannot be healthy. 

The principles to be regarded in determining the size of 
a heater are these : The greater the heating surface in a 
heater, the greater is the volume of air it can heat to a given 
temperature in a given time. A low fire will therefore im- 
part warmth to a room fully equal to that from a hot fire in 



32 HOME NECESSITIES. 

a smaller furnace. The one does a large volume of work 
deliberately. The other does it with a rush ; but in the 
rush the air is baked, its moisture is exhausted, it is made 
unfit for use. The coal required is more in bulk in the 
larger furnaces, but it is not used half so fast. Large fire- 
pans are better, therefore, and cheaper — of course within 
reasonable bounds. Then, too, the moisture produced at a 
low temperature is preferable to that from excessive heat. 
The former is a gentle vapor, the later a driving steam. 

Hot water and steam are used in various applications for 
heating purposes, but not very generally in private houses, 
except as they heat air carried through coils containing 
steam or hot water. 

Among the contrivances applicable to furnaces and 
heaters of all kinds are governors or regulators, which can 
be set so that when the heat reaches a certain height the 
drafts will close automatically. When the heat falls they 
will open. Thus an equal temperature is maintained even 
in the absence of immediate supervision. 



GAS HEATING-STOVES. 

After seeing the wonderful adaptations of gas to cooking 
purposes, no one will wonder that there are many happy 
adaptations of the same to heating purposes. The Goodwin 
Gas Stove Company, from whose constructions the illustra- 
tions already given were selected, furnishes heating-stoves 
also. 

The principles upon which these stoves are constructed 
are thoroughly scientific, and at the same time so simple 
that they require little or no attention. The ventilating 
principle is so applied that no injurious products of com- 
bustion can escape into the room in which they are placed, 
but all are carried off to the flue or out-of-doors by the pipe 
seen in the opposite cuts, The stoves have an air passage 



WARMING. 



33 



through the centre by means of which the air passes up 
from the floor, and in its passage comes in contact with the 
sides of the centre tubes and becomes highly heated. The 
stoves can be made to draw their supply of air from out-of* 





GAS 



IMPROVED VENTILATING GAS HEATING-STOVE. 

doors by means of a tube when so desired. Their consump- 
tion of gas is but seven cubic feet per hour. One of them 
will heat a room containing from eight hundred to one 
thousand cubic feet of space. They are six inches in 
diameter and twenty-three inches high. 

If the open fire appearance is desired, the stove called 
the " Cheerful " meets the case. 

These stoves are especially designed for use in parlors, 
libraries, and sitting-rooms. The panels in the front and 
sides are fitted with porcelain or metal tiles. The frames 
are nickel-plated, or enameled in black or brown with 
bronzed chambers. The tops are of marble, and can be 
varied in color to suit the taste. 



34 



HOME NECESSITIES. 



They are constructed upon principles so correct scientifi- 
cally, and at the same time so simple, that they require little 
or no attention. They, too, may be made to draw their 
supply of fresh air from out-of-doors, and they carry off the 
results so perfectly that no injurious products of combus- 




THE "CHEERFUL" GAS HEATING-STOVE. 

tion can escape. This stove, in its largest size, is thirty 
inches high, sixteen inches wide, twelve inches deep. 

Smaller stoves are in cast-iron only, but these have a 
boiling burner at the top. The smallest of this line is eleven 
inches high, ten and a half inches wide, and nine inches 
deep. It will warm a small room or take the chill from a 
large one. 



IV.— ILLUMINATION. 

CANDLES, lamps, and gas are so familiar that in their 
ordinary uses they need not be so much as mentioned. 
But all these articles have undergone so much of im- 
provement that a few points concerning them may be of 
value. 

Candles are now 
furnished of very su- 
perior illuminating 
power and also very 
beautiful in appear- 
ance. When used 
simply for show, as is 
now very common, 
they can be had in 
many colors and very 
artistically decorated modern brass candlesticks. 

with flowers, birds, etc., 
so as to be highly orna- 
mental. 

Finely wrought brass 
candlesticks, for use or 
for ornament, are quite 
popular also, though it 
seems like a return to the 
days of our fathers. 

The student-lamp (for 
kerosene oil) has come 
into very extensive use. 
It receives the oil into 
bracket student-lamp. t h e large vessel at the 

side, from which the oil is supplied to the wick by the 

35 





36 



HOME NECESSITIES. 



connecting tube, the wick being circular and on the 
argand principle, so that the largest possible amount ol 
illuminating surface is secured, with the best possible results. 
In specialties of this character, the Manhattan Brass Com- 
pany, of New 
York, has done 
many good things. 
The above brack- 
et-lamp is one of 
theirs, as are the 
artisan's lamp and 
others which fol- 
low. The adjust- 
able nickel reflec- 
tor shown in the 
artisan lamp en- 
ables the person 
using it to con- 
centrate the light 
just where he 
wants it. For sew- 
ing, reading, or 
most mechanical 
operations, this 
lamp is a very 
helpful auxiliary. 
But student- 
lamps are popular 
artisan's lamp. in libraries and 

sitting-rooms. For such uses something more elaborate 
is desired, and all that can be wished for is found in the Par- 
lor Student-Lamp. For real elegance nothing could be 
better, and for illuminating power it is rated as equal to 
thirty-three wax candles, which would make bright a room 
of great capacity. 




ILL UMINA TION. 



37 



Parlor lamps in other patterns of surpassing beauty are 
numerous, two of them with richly ornamented globes being 
shown on the following page. All these lamps are made in 
fine cast or wrought brass and form exquisite decorations. 

When gas is in- 
troduced into a 
house, the possi- 
bilities afforded in 
the fixtures are 
very fine, as will be 
illustrated farther 
on under the head 
of " Home Decora- 
tion." The facili- 
ties for the home 
manufacture of gas 
are many and very 
satisfactory. 

Gas machines 
are designed espe- 
cially for the illu- 
mination of build- 
ings beyond the 
reach of public gas 
works. They can 
be adapted for large 
factories and hotels 
as also for private 
houses. In the 
Springfield Gas Machine gas is produced by bringing a cur- 
rent of air in contact with gasoline, the vapors of which 
combine with the air and produce a clear, white, agreeable 
gas, which is distributed as common gas by similar fixtures. 
The apparatus, as will be seen by the engravings which 
follow, consists of two instruments — an air-pump, operated 




PARLOR STUDENT-LAMP. 



88 



HOME NECESSITIES. 



by a weight being used to produce the air-current, and a 
gas-generator (a cylinder containing evaporating-pans or 
chambers, in which the gasoline is kept). The generator is 
always placed in a vault under ground and removed from 





ELEGANT PARLOR-TABLE LAMPS. 

the building a safe distance ; or it may be buried in the 
earth, in which case the expense of the arched vault is 
saved. The air-pump is usually stationed in the cellar of 
the building to be lighted. Supposing a machine to be set 
up and connected by pipes, as shown, the generator to be 



ILL UMINA TION. 



39 



filled with gasoline, and the weight of the pump wound up, 
the process of gas- 
making is as follows : 
The action of the 
pump draws a supply ^Jf 
of air through the in-Sc 
duction - pipe f r o m 
without the building | 
and forces it through 
the air-pipe leading | 
to the gas-generator. H 
In its passage through || 
the generator it be- 



minating gas that is 
returned by the gas- 
pipe from the top of 
the generator to the 
burners within the 
building. 

The machine is 
automatic in its ope- 
ration. Gas is made 
only as fast as con- 
sumed. When the 
burners are shut off 
the pump stops and 
the manufacture of 
gas ceases, but im-^ 
mediately commences 
when they are opened |jf 
again. The gas-gene- 1 
rator is recharged 





AIR-PUMP (in Cellar of House). 



whenever exhausted — usually once in from three to six 



40 HOME NECESSITIES. 

months, varying according to the rapidity of the consump- 
tion of gas. Gauges upon the generator show at any time 
the amount of fluid it contains and when necessary to re- 
plenish it. A doubte-way cock connecting with both the 
filling and vent-pipes in the vault is used, so that of neces- 
sity a free vent is given while filling, thus preventing any 
backward pressure of gas upon the pump or strain upon 
the generator. The weight of the pump does not require 
winding, commonly, oftener than once or twice a week, and 
this takes but a moment's time. 

The pressure of gas in the ordinary gas works is so 
strong that there is an immense waste at the burners and 
at every possible crevice for escape. It is wise to turn the 
gas wholly off during the day, using for this purpose a 
connection between the meter and the street, so preventing 
all waste. Even at night the full pressure should not or- 
dinarily be allowed. When the burners are lighted as may 
be desired for the evening, turn down the valve at the me- 
ter until the gas flame just shows the effect. This may 
cut off nearly half the flow of gas, and yet the light remain 
ample. A great reduction of gas-bills will be secured in this 
way. You will get the benefit of all you pay for, as no 
gas will escape unconsumed. 

When light is desired all night in a bedroom, by all 
means use tapers. A box of these, costing ten cents, 
can be bought at the apothecaries, and will last many 
weeks. Each box contains a tiny socket, or circle, of tin 
with three sharp points holding a bit of cork. Into this 
socket sets a button-mold a quarter of an inch in diame- 
ter, with a hole in the middle, in which is inserted a bit of 
waxed wicking. The whole affair, not larger in circumfer- 
ence than a walnut, floats on the surface of a cup or tum- 
bler full of lard-oil, and gives a very soft and pleasant light, 
and is perfectly safe and wholesome. 



V.— SANITARY CONDITIONS. 

INSIDIOUS CAUSES OF ILLNESS; SEWER GASES; "TRAPS," VEN- 
TILATING PIPES, ETC. ; FILTERING-WATER J BAD CELLARS ; DRAIN- 
AGE ; SYPHONING TRAPS ; GERMICIDE J WEATHER STRIPS J ETC. 

THERE is much sickness in these days which passes as 
Bilious, Typhoid, or Malarial Fevers. The inciting 
causes of disease are not easily determined. There are 
physical conditions which predispose to disease. Often 
these are wholly independent of the immediate cause under 
which the patient succumbs. In other cases, the final crash 
is only an advanced stage of the derangement which has 
gone forward steadily under continuous inciting causes. 
This is the case in that class of diseases to which reference 
has been made. 

When a good housewife sees any of her charge losing 
appetite, vigor, color, and ambition, it is certain that some 
evil influence is at work, for which thorough search should 
at once be made. It may be that poisonous gases are creep- 
ing up the waste-pipe of the permanent wash-basin. It may;- 
be that the bath-room is belching forth death. It may be 
that the cistern whence the djfinking-water comes is receiv- 
ing pollution from surface drainage or from some hidden 
flow of vileness. It may be that noxious gases are exuding 
from the ground itself, " made ground," perhaps, into which 
filth of all sorts has been dumped. It may be that a drain- 
pipe is broken or leaking, and that t^e soil about the house 
is becoming saturated vvith waste waters* which ferment and 
putrefy, and send up deadly vapors, even from beds of 
flowers. These are a few of the insidious ways in which 
sewer gas and other poisonous influences do their work. 

41 



42 HOME NECESSITIES. 

When water is introduced into a house its drainage must 
be perfect. Every opening from the pipes must be so 
" trapped " that gases cannot work back into the house. 
Scientific plumbing alone can secure this point. The best 
made trap may be so set that the water will syphon out of 
it, and leave no " water-seal " to stop the ingress of sewer 
gases. If this be properly arranged gas will not force back 
through the water except under pressure, as when a heavy 
rain storm fills the sewers. To meet this liability, every 
trap should have a ventilating pipe from its arch, or the side 
away from the opening into the house. This pipe must be 
carried to the roof, and there left open. All the gases will 
thus find vent. A still better plan is to carry the soil-pipe 
directly to the roof, capping it to exclude storm, but not to re- 
strict the outflow of gas. Scrupulous cleanliness and frequent 
disinfecting of the pipes by copperas, dissolved in hot water, 
are essential. In a few hours the water of the seal will ab- 
sorb gases so as to become in itself a source of impurity. 
What is known as " seat ventilation " is the best remedy for 
this, or frequent flushing. 

Filters will separate material impurities from drinking- 
water, but the deadliest ingredients are not removable in 
this way. The only remedy for a well that receives impurity 
from the depths is to fill it up. If impure from surface 
drainage, cement and better grading may save it. Chemical 
analysis alone can detect the subtle poisons which often lurk 
in water. Some most sparkling and beautiful waters are 
rank poison. If suspicious of water and unable to provide 
a sure remedy, use rain water. It lacks the life of good 
spring water, but it also lacks the death that always lurks 
in city wells and generally in those of villages and rural 
settlements. 

Cellars are nearer akin to graves than many suspect. Good, 
hard, impenetrable cement floors and walls are essential in 
most localities. Noxious influences lurking in the soil and 



SANITARY CONDITIONS. 43 

oozing thence can be hermetically sealed down by no other 
means. An abundance of whitewash is good for a cellar. 
Frequent sweeping and airing, with the careful removal of 
decaying vegetables or fruits, must be added. 

If suspicious of drainage, dig and see. A leaky pipe, 
even when several feet under ground, has cost many a life. 
Allow no marshy places, no pools of stagnant water, no 
compost heaps, or other foul spots upon your home prem- 
ises. Do not allow the earth about the kitchen door to be 
saturated with slops thrown out. Make other disposition of 
such refuse. Cleanliness is akin to godliness and also to 
healthfulness. 

In a drain for a private house a four-inch pipe is suffi- 
cient. It is better than one twice the size, as the flow is 
more concentrated and powerful. Straight lines and even 
descents are always desirable. Every deviation presents an 
obstacle and invites stoppage. The jointing must be very 
perfect, or it will check solid material, causing stoppage and 
leakage, with their long train of expense and sickness. To 
prevent the slow flow of water, which is apt to result in 
stoppage in drain pipes, flushing tanks have been invented. 
These operate on a syphon principle, emptying the tank at 
intervals with a rush of water which sweeps all debris be- 
fore it. 

The latest conclusions in scientific drainage require an 
air-pipe to connect with every trap of the drainage system, 
on the sewer side of the curve, so that when water goes 
down the soil-pipe with a rush, it will not syphon the water 
out of the traps. It usually does this because the rush of 
water creates a momentary vacuum into which the water of 
the traps is forced by the atmospheric pressure behind it. 
This air-pipe, when introduced, supplies air to the vacuum, 
and so prevents syphoning and its consequent ill effect of a 
trap without water, which leaves an open passage for sewer 
gases. 



44 



HOME NECESSITIES. 



But, after all, it remains true that all the modern systems 
of interior drainage are liable to imperfection. There will 
be some putrefaction, and, consequently, some development 
of those insidious germs of disease now known so surely to 
lie at the foundation of all contagion and infection. To hit 
the death-blow to these, or indeed to prevent their ever 
coming to vitality, an apparatus known as the " Germicide " 
(germ-killer) has been invented, and is strongly indorsed. 

Fig.1. Exterior View 



F/g2 Interior Vie w 





Fig. I. — A, B, C, D represents the Germi- 
cide as it appears behind the lid of the 
closet, being nearly concealed when the lid 
is raised. E is the pipe which carries water from the " water- 
service pipe " into the appliance where chloride of zinc is 
gradually dissolved and conducted into the basin, dropping 
from the pipe F, as indicated by the dotted lines. 

Fig. 2 represents the interior of the Germicide. The pipe 
E conducts water through the faucet F into the compart- 
ment G, which contains chloride of zinc in solid form, and 
from whence it escapes as a solution, dropping into the basin 



SANITARY CONDITIONS. 



45 



as indicated. The chain H, attached to the closet-lid, passes 
over the pulley I, actuates the plunger K, causing it to enter 
the thymol compartment L whenever the closet-lid is opened 
and to be withdrawn whenever the lid is closed. The plun- 
ger, being clothed with an absorbent, becomes saturated 
with thymol solution when lowered, and when raised liberates 
thymol vapor through the circular aperture G. 

The Germicide requires no attention whatever from the 
inmates of the house, as it is always under the supervision 
of the Company's uniformed, experienced inspectors. The 
appliance remains always the property of the Company, and 
is placed for service at such an annual rental for inspection 
and supply of chemicals as to bring it within the means of 
the most humble householder. It is neatly encased in black 
walnut and is attached without interference with the plumb- 
ing of a house. Germicide Companies are located in New 
York, Cincinnati, Chicago, Boston, Philadelphia, etc. 

On the need of a disinfecting agent in every drainage sys- 
tem of a house, Professor Joseph C. Richardson, of the 
University of Pennsylvania, thus speaks : 

" The true method of obviating this danger is by steriliz- 
ing with slow currents or drippings of solutions of sulphate 
of iron, corrosive sublimate, arsenic, carbolic acid, etc., the 
whole interior of our waste-pipes, just as the shores of the 
Dead Sea and the banks of certain small streams are steril- 
ized by mineral ingredients or poisonous metallic substances 
from manufacturing refuse, with which their waters are 
mingled. ... I am confident that the key to this momen- 
tous problem of how to avoid infection from ' sewer gas,' or, 
more correctly, sewer air, entering our dwellings, is to be 
found in the principle of so sterilizing the whole interior of 
all pipes communicating with sewers, and, if possible, of the 
sewers themselves (by frequently irrigating them with fluids 
containing metallic compounds poisonous to plant life), that 
no vegetable organisms can propagate within them." 



46 HOME NECESSITIES. 

Cold air driving in at cracks and crevices of a room may 
not endanger health by introducing germs of disease, but, 
by creating drafts and reducing temperature, it may pro- 
mote colds, coughs, pneumonia, and the long train of kin- 
dred ills. The plea that an open house promotes ventila- 




SPRING BOTTOM-STRIPS FOR OUTSIDE OF DOORS. 

tion is valid, without doubt, but out-of-doors is even better 
ventilated, yet no one greatly prefers to live there. Leak- 
age at cracks is a certain inlet for dust and dirt also. 

To rebuild doors and sashes is not practicable or neces- 
sary. The protection needed, can be had by neat weather- 
stripping, prepared in forms to meet all ordinary needs, as 
llustrated in the samples here shown. 

These represent a short piece of each kind, drawn full 
size. They are neat wood moldings of walnut, oak, and 
painted pine, with a strip of vulcanized rubber inserted 





FOR WINDOWS. FOR JOINTS OF WINDOWS, ETC. 

securely with Diamond Cement in grooves, at such angles 
as will insure the greatest efficiency. These strips require 
no additional painting, covering, or expense, as they are 
already nicely painted white or oiled, and are a permanent 
and ornamental fixture. 



SECOND DEPARTMENT. 



HOME FURNISHING. 



Nothing worth having is to be had without expense either of time or 

money, but many of the best things in house decorating and furnishing are 

those that cost least. 

Clarence Cook. 



Home Furnishing. 



IT is true that " Home is where the heart is." But some 
hearts are low in their tendencies, and are satisfied to 
tarry where others find no rest. There are hearts of 
refined quality and lofty aspiration. These dwell among 
life's better and nobler things. The best is none too good 
for them. They " covet earnestly the best gifts," and as 
opportunity allows they add one and another of these best 
things to their personal possessions. 

Some have a passion for clothes ; some for jewelry ; some 
for books ; but the true housewife desires that her home, 
" be it ever so humble," shall at least be clean, neat, and 
tasteful. She asks how others live ; how the homes of 
those more favored of fortune are furnished ; how her own 
little abode may be made more home-like, more lovely, 
more cozy. Such questions deserve answer. 

Decoration has more to do with many homes than the 
furnishing has. It puts the finishing touches on the furnish- 
ing. It embellishes the home. But furnishing can lay a 
good foundation for decoration. It can prepare the way 
splendidly. 

Forms of beauty may be introduced into every part of a 
house. Standard furniture is everywhere made with this idea 
in view. Every furniture store of any advancement shows 
it. The time was when the " Cottage " sets led the market. 

49 



50 



HOME FURNISHING. 



These were sold at low prices, and they were in many cases 
really beautiful. The coloring and decoration, as well as 
the lines of the work, were artistic. They formed a good 
basis for decoration. 




"GOOD LUCK" HAT, CANE, AND WHIP RACK. 



Natural woods, finished in their natural colors, are now 
the style. And who shall say they are not a correct style. 
Nature's beautiful graining and colors, left in her own 
woods, are surely not to be buried under paint and imita- 



HOME FURNISHING. 



51 



tions of nature. All hail to the native woods in their own 
native colorings, therefore ! Correct taste bids them wel- 
come in standard and in special furniture. 

With special furniture only can these pages deal. The 
woods most used in standard furniture are ash, chestnut, 
and walnut. In special furniture, the splendid old mahog- 
any, the rose-wood and satin-wood, with fire-gilt metal, are 




FAN " HAT AND COAT RACK. 



now the leading materials. Standard furniture now contains 
turned work, molded work, and carved work, sometimes 
running the cost of a bed-room suite to ten, twelve, and 
fifteen hundred dollars. The special furniture combines all 
these resources of the art, and adds special taste, artistic 
study of effects, the combining of the truly beautiful with 
the really useful. 



52 



HOME FURNISHING. 



American art furniture is now manufactured by skilled arti- 
sans in all the leading cities. From their choicest supplies the 
accompanying illustrations of this subject have been chosen. 
How superior to ordinary hall racks are either of the three 
shown ? Finely finished in mahogany or ebonized woods, 
with brass pins and a superior mirror, they are all that the 




"GEM" HAT AND COAT RACK. 

most elegant hall requires. The largest of them is thirty 
inches wide by thirty-seven high. 

Corresponding with these glasses and racks are hall tables 
to place beneath to receive wraps and hats, while at the ends 
are cane and umbrella racks. An ordinary table with a 
heavy covering or a plain cloth, if desired, may stand beneath 
these racks. 



HOME FURNISHING. 



53 



Passing into the house from the hall or entry-way, the 
parlor naturally receives the first attention. As managed 
in the average American home, this is the most costly and 
the least useful of all rooms. The cabinetmaker usually rules 
here and sways his sceptre with unquestioned supremacy. 
Whatever works of art or objects of beauty creep into these 
parlors are ill-assorted, if of value, though they are more fre- 
quently both valueless and destitute of beauty. A careful fur- 




" CANTERBURY." 
A Stand for Music — Mahogany, Walnut, or Ebonized. 

nishing of a parlor would, for the sums usually spent there, 
give honest hard-wood furniture, beautifully fashioned and 
upholstered, a few choice photographs or steel engravings, 
and in many cases a good painting or two by a reputable 
artist. The Rogers Groups and some other inexpensive 
pieces of statuary are ranked as works of art and are freely 
admitted where good taste holds sway. 

I Parlors generally have too little that suggests ease. Win- 
dow-shades are stiff, square, and mechanical ; while curtains, 
especially if falling from rings and a rod rather than from an 



54 



HOME FURNISHING. 



angular cornice, are full of ease and grace. Hard wood ia 
not suggestive of ease in chairs, sofas, etc., nor is cane-seat- 
mg. We need a liberal share of cushioning on all such 
articles. This invites to repose and furnishes comfort. It 
does away with the stiffness which in so many parlors pro- 




MUSIC PORTFOLIO IN VARIOUS WOODS. 

claims the room to be not meant for use. So furnish this 
room that its appearance will invite to use. And this use 
should be of the festal, joyous sort, rather than of the 
laborious, meditative kind. Here is the place for the piano 



HOME FURNISHING. 



55 



or organ, for the illustrated books, for a neat cabinet of 
bric-a-brac, or good curiosities, though neither of these 
must be overdone. The parlor is neither a library nor a 
museum, but works 
of art may be ad- 
mitted there, and 
books which charm 
by their beautiful 
exteriors as well as 
by their cuts and 
their literary con- 
tents. Books for this 
purpose should be 
choice selections, 
standard poems, and 
new and attractive 
books. 

The carpeting of 
a parlor has much 
to do with its attrac- 
tiveness. Of course, 
the expense involved 
often becomes the 
prime considera- 
tion. But ingrain 
carpets present 
many very beautiful 
combinations at low 
figures. Passing up-' 
ward into the vari- 
ous grades of Brus-' 
sels and Axminsters 

113LClb > CARVED PEDESTAL. 

the highest taste For Statuary— Walnut, Mahogany, or Ebonized. 

may be gratified and the longest purses taxed. But in any 
case aim at a beautiful result. Do so in the materials and 




56 



HOME FURNISHING. 



styles employed in upholstering furniture. It should har- 
monize and beautify both the wood used and the carpets 
laid. Cherry and mahogany furniture is not best set off by 
crimson reps or damasks, nor are ebony and black walnut 
best shown by dark coverings. Light and bright colored 
woods show best with dark and rich colored goods, while 

the darkest woods best display 
the brightest colorings and 
textures. 

If the walls are papered, it 
must be with due regard to 
the other appointments of the 
room. Such combinations as 
will make all the contents of 
the room help each other 
should be sought out. Where 
many paintings adorn the 
walls, the papering must be 
rich but subdued in colors. 
The finest work of art may be 
killed by the flashy back- 
ground on which it is hung. 
Where there are but few pic- 
tures, or where engravings 
alone appear, the paper may 
take on rich forms and colors, 
but it should never run to 
excess. Loud, glaring, flashy 
styles may be suitable for 
public places, but they are 
not for cozy homes. To secure 
what is right, consult your best paper-hanger ; try samples ; 
do not decide at once or off-hand ; weigh the subject; sleep 
over it ; thus you will probably reach a decision that will be 
a permanent satisfaction. 




JARDINIERE STAND. 
la various woods. 



HOME FURNISHING. 



57 



Now that this company-room, or best living-room as it 
had better be considered, is carpeted and papered, what 
furnishing shall it contain ? Sofas and chairs ? Yes, but 
not of stiff, uncomfortable, regulation patterns. A neat 
lounge is preferable to a stiff sofa. Even the old-fashioned 
wooden settees can be made really comfortable by cushions 
on the seat, against the back, and on the ends. These should 
be of brightly colored 
goods ; chintz will do, 
though reps, cretonnes, 
or special goods are 
better. Do not stuff 
the cushions with cut 
straw or any other 
substance that will shift 
position and leave one 
sitting on the hard 
wood directly ; but use 
fine corn husk or some 
other cheap material, if 
not disposed to procure 
hair. Make the cush- 
ions square, and tuft 
them to keep the filling 
in place; run light braid 
around the corners for 
adornment ; then tie 
the cushions in place 
by strong braid or tape, mahogany and brass stand. 

which should be out of sight. In this way an old-style set- 
tee can be transformed into a thing of beauty and a minister 
of comfort. 

One of the prettiest tables for a parlor, library, or sitting- 
room, and one that is highly artistic as well as of historic 
interest, has been designated the " Shakespeare Table," being 




58 HOME FURNISHING. 

fashioned after one still shown in the former home of the fa- 
mous old bard. The cut shows the square Shakespeare table, 
but it is made oblong also in two sizes, and in mahogany, 
ebony, walnut, and ash. For the ornamental covers now so 
generally used on tables, this style is specially adapted. It 
is entirely free from the top-heavy appearance and unstable 
condition of many ornamental tables in general use. 




COOPER'S SHAKESPEARE TABLE. 

To accompany a piano and to retain music and music- 
books in good order a very handsome piece of furniture, 
" The Canterbury," shown in a previous cut, is just suited. 
It can be had in a variety of styles and in woods finished to 
match the ordinary standard pianos. Another contrivance 
for similar purposes and very beautiful in construction is 
6hown on the page following the " Canterbury." It is made 



HOME FURNISHING. 



59 



in different woods and is known as the " Music Portfolio." 
What a beautifully ornamental piece of furniture it is a 
glance at the engraving will show. 

We have also shown a highly ornamental carved pedestal, 
on the upper stage of which a piece of statuary may be 
placed, the tops being varied in size to suit different pieces. 
On the lower stages other ornaments may be placed, with 
books, flowers, or bric-a-brac, as necessity may require or 
as taste may suggest. 

Similar in purpose, but of far lighter construction, is the 
Jardiniere stand. For floral displays, card receivers, statu- 
ettes, and such articles, it is most beautifully adapted. Its 
structure is so light and 
graceful that it pleases the 
eye and gratifies the taste 
of every observer. 

Other forms of beauty ap- 
pear in the department of 
stands and tables. One con- 
structed in dark wood and 
fire-gilt metal is nextshown. 
It meets all the require- 
ments for small stands of this book-racks. 
character. The use of brass ornaments is coming more and 
more into vogue also, so that this construction is fully up 
to the times. 

When books are displayed in a parlor or sitting-room, 
the large ones may lie upon the table, but the smaller ones 
should be placed in book-racks which hold them in position 
neatly with their backs upward. Two of these racks are 
shown in cuts given above. The ornamental ends of the 
racks turn upward upon hinges and are capable of longitu- 
dinal extension, so that few books or many, as may be 
required, can be held in proper position by this means. 
They are entirely in style. 




60 



HOME FURNISHING. 




ORNAMENTAL EASEL. 

A fine corner-fur* 
nishing for a parlor is 
secured in an ornamen- 
tal easel, one of which 
in very beautiful form 
is shown in the accom- 
panying cut. Of course, 
the easel implies a 
picture or handsome 
engraving to rest upon 
it. Because of this 
use, an easel should be 
of dark wood, orna- 
mented only in the 
matter of carving, so 
that it shall not present 
any dominating or de- 
tracting colors in com- 
parison with a picture 
which may rest upon it. 

Easels are some- 
times finished with a 
portfolio or pocket at 
the lower part in which 
engravings may be 
kept. When it is de- 
sired to show these, 
they are placed upon 
the shelf above the 
pocket, and afterward 
returned to the pocket 
for safe keeping This 
receptacle presents 

j an ornamental front 



HOME FURNISHING. 



61 



A library or reading-room should be studiously fitted for 
its purpose. All glaring colors should be avoided as inju- 
rious to the eye and tending to divert from work. Green 
and oak are favorite colors for the library, though dark 
brown and walnut answer well. Arrangements for light by 
day or by night must be scrupulously regarded. It should 




LADIES* WORKSTAND. 

Thirty-three inches high, made in various woods. 

never shine in the student's face, but always upon his work 
in such direction that the shadow of the hand shall not 
obscure the page in writing. 

Doors are little used upon book-cases. The backs of the 
books do well enough without their protection, and dust 
26 



62 



HOME FURNISHING. 



may be kept from the upper ends of the books by a strip of 
fancy colored leather attached to the edge of the shelf, and 
hanging a little below it, so as to reach the tops of the 
books. If this be " pinked," as is not unfrequent, it is 
apt to curl up and fail of its purpose. It is better to use a 
strip with a plain edge, ornamenting it with gold stamping. 




ELABORATE WALL CABINET. 
Thirty-seven inches in extreme dimensions. In various woods, with French mirror. 

Unless the books are very numerous, let the book-case be 
low, say five feet only in height, so affording shelf room on 
their tops where ornaments or heavy books may be disposed, 
and over which pictures, brackets, wall-pockets, and orna- 



HOME FURNISHING. 



63 



mental articles may be placed. The lowest shelves of 
the cases are best wrought into a row of drawers, as dust 
from the floor soils books which are so near it. Whether 
a table or a desk be preferable depends on the leading pur- 
pose for which the room is used. A cylinder desk which 
may be entirely closed is best where private papers are 
liable to be dis- 
turbed. For most 
home uses, how- 
ever, this is not 
needful. 

Carpeting, pa- 
per-hanging, cur- 
tains, and other 
accessories of the 
room should be 
in keeping with 
its general pur- 
pose and plan. If 
there is a low- 
down grate or fire- 
place, it should be 
done in tiles. The 
mantle should be 
of carved wood 
to match the fur- 
niture, surmount- 
ed with light shelving at either end for books and orna- 
ments. A mirror may be placed over the centre. Restful 
chairs, a comfortable lounge, a student's lamp, and such 
appliances find appropriate places in this room. 

The library may be combined with the ladies' sitting-room, 
unless it is needed as a real study. If devoted to the double 
use, a ladies' workstand, such as has already been shown, 
is quite in place. This is suitable in any room where it will 




BRIC-A-BRAC SHELF. 
In various woods. Beveled mirror. 



64 



HOME FURNISHING. 



serve as a convenience. Hanging cabinets or brackets, which 
are abundantly illustrated in previous pages, are admissible 
in the library. Their contents are illustrative of beauty and 
art. They are object lessons on topics which many books 
in the library are fairly presumed to discuss. The scrap- 
basket on some of the beautiful patterns illustrated under 
home decoration is appropriate in the library. Wall pockets 

and pocket easels are numer- 
ous and beautiful, and they, 
too, naturally belong here. 
As receptacles of newspapers, 
letters, etc., they are just in 
place. But they must not be 
allowed to degenerate into 
rubbish holders. They may 
gather papers for a week, or 
some such short period, but 
they must be overhauled fre- 
quently, or they will offend 
good taste, which is always 
allied to neatness. 

A rich wall bracket, or a 
corner bracket, is admissable 
in any room, and may be used 
for many purposes. Our illus- 
trations of these embody the 
stag's head. Uniformity in the pattern of brackets for a 
given room may be followed, or, with equal propriety, it 
may be disregarded. Nor is it important in the incidental 
decorations of a room that the prevailing wood of the furni- 
ture be followed. Variety may be admitted with all readiness, 
provided that it is not carried to the extent of evident 
and glaring incongruity. 

Concerning the dining-room, a fine writer on domestic 
affairs speaks thus : " Probably there is no better test of 




HANGING CABINET. 
In various woods. Beveled mirror. 



HOME FURNISHING. 



G5 




STAG'S HEAD CORNER 
BRACKET. 



the refinement of a family than the relation of its dining- 
room to the rest of the house. If the family meal is re- 
garded as a mere feeding, the place where it is taken will 
plainly show the fact. If the meal be a cheerful house- 
hold ceremony, where the best quali- 
ties of head and heart engage, and to 
which the most honored friends are 
gathered, these facts, too, will be in- 
dicated by the room." 

The central object of the dining- 
room is the table. It should be on 
the extension principle, and between 
meals it should be covered with a 
rich colored cloth. To set the table for 
the next meal as one is cleared away 
may save labor, but it savors of un- 
tidiness, for the dust must gather upon cloth and dishes in 
the interval. True, the laid table may be covered to pro- 
tect it. Dining-room 
chairs should be cov- 
ered with leather. A 
lounge or a rocking- 
chair is out of place 
in this room. It is 
not the place to lounge 
nor even to sit, except 
at meal times. 

Ornamental wood 
floors are much used 
in dining-rooms. Lin- 
en rugs are laid on 
these to subdue the 
hardness of the tread. 




STAG'S HEAD WALL BRACKET. 

Carpets are not regarded as out of 
place there, but they are not essential if the floor be of the 
proper sort. The papering varies with changing styles and 



6Q HOME FURNISHING. 

differing tastes. More coloring is admitted to the dining- 
room papers than elsewhere, because high colors in their 
decorations are not deemed best. Engravings, carvings, 
statuary, and paintings in some cases, are admitted to elegant 
dining-apartments. Some disapprove of the introduction of 
subjects connected with food, such as game, poultry, fruit, 
etc., in dining-room decorations, but good usage holds to 
this line, nevertheless, and with eminent fitness. 



ORNAMENTAL POCKET EASEL. 

In the superb dining-hall of the Lick House, of San 
Francisco, art has done its best. Columns, carvings, stained 
glass, and painting combine to make it simply magnificent. 
Immense pictures of Pacific coast scenery fill the panels 
around the room between its clustering columns. It is 
undoubtedly a superb hall, but no guest can appreciate the 
display as he sits at his own seat, and no refined guest 
wishes to be craning his neck this way and that, to see all 
these gems of the painter's art. Nor does a lover of art 
wish to parade around the room and study the pictures 



HOME FURNISHING. 



67 



while others are at their meals ; nor does he wish so to do 
while the servants arc preparing the room and the tables 
for the meals. The fact is, that in this sumptuous room art 
has gone astray. A dining-room is not a picture gallery. 

The conspicuous piece of furniture in a dining-room is 
the sideboard or buffet. Its possibilities are well-nigh 
illimitable. Ancestral plate, if there be any, may repose 
here in its venerable dignity. If you have none such, bright 
china, glassware, lacquer work, and natural fruit or flowers 
will do full well. It is worth while to study effect in this 
article of furniture, for it is the one article at which your 
guests will look. A wooden 
top to your buffet is safer for 
the glassware than one of 
marble. Valuable glass and 
china will inevitably be chipped 
and marred if set frequently 
upon marble. 

When a meal is in progress 
good taste allows the finger 
bowls to stand ready for use 
on the buffet. Each should 
be on a plate w r ith a small 
doiley under it. Harlequin 
sets of finger bowls, no two being of the same color, but all 
bright and beautiful, are now in style, and they ornament 
the buffet very richly. High glass dishes cut into diamond 
points are also highly ornamental, especially if the buffet be 
well lighted, which it should be. Natural flowers are a wel- 
come adornment on the buffet as well as upon the table, but 
they should be very choice and of delicate odor. 

The gas-fixtures or lamps of a dining-room go far to 
beautify it. An unending variety is at command, with all 
shapes and colors of shades or globes, and untold variety in 
the fixtures themselves. Be careful even in the choice of a 




ROMAN HANGING-LAMP. 
Recovered from Ancient Ruins. 



68 



HOME FURNISHING. 



table lamp, for these can be had in forms of exquisite 
beauty. Terra-cotta lamp stands, beautifully embossed and 
colored, are now exceedingly popular. Lamp shades are 
sold in a variety of hues, or white shades are covered with 
tasty paper covers, so that inexpensive decoration is within 
the reach of all, even though they shrink from the more 
costly articles. 

Bed-room sets can be had in good wood and in elegant 




PLAIN BED-ROOM SET IN NATURAL COLORS OF WOOD. 

finish at very low prices. In making selections attend care- 
fully to the mirror on your bureau. Test its clearness by 
holding a white card beside it and noting whether the 
reflection is darker than the original. Test the thickness 
by lightly tapping with the knuckles. A good glass will 
give back a solid sound; a thin one will be tinny. Be sure 
the glass does not distort its objects. A poor mirror is a 



i HOME FURNISHING, (39 

constant annoyance. Marble tops cost more than others. 
They are liable to injure brittle objects which may be set 
upon them, and the style now is to entirely cover the top 
with various lace goods and other materials of fine texture 
and beautiful color. Wood, hence, is preferable to marble. 

Have a good spring bed covered by a mattress of hair. 
This may cost more at the outset, but it will last long and 
give constant satisfaction. Considering that about one-third 
of life is spent in bed, it is worth while to make the bed the 
best possible. Then, too, our hours of suffering are spent 
there, and there we expect to die. 

In getting up a mattress do not have it in one great mass. 
Do not have it in two long sections, either, as a joint down 
the middle never answers well. Make it in two parts — one 
the square of the bedstead's width, the other to occupy the 
remaining space. The square part can readily be turned 
in the bedstead, so that each side of it shall in turn be at 
the head of the bed. It may then be shifted to the foot 
and the smaller section come to the head. Each part may 
be turned over also, so that a new combination may be 
made each month for a year, and the gullies usually worn 
in mattresses may be wholly avoided. 

Quiet colors are best for the bed-room, both in carpets 
and on the walls. No object should be admitted there that 
is not an object of beauty. What the eye catches last at 
night and first in the morning, what it dwells on continu- 
ously in sickness and exhaustion, should . be an object in- 
spiring peace, good-will, and placid joy. Heavy curtains or 
shades are needed at the windows, that light and heat and 
noise maybe excluded when one is sick or needs to sleep in 
daytime. All that is in the sleeping-room should be neat and 
beautiful. Beautiful forms are no more costly than those 
which are homely, and they pay far better, for Keats has 
truly said: 

"A thing of beauty is a joy forever." 



70 



HOME FURNISHING. 



Utility may alscrbe happily blended with beauty. What 
could be more beautiful as an article of furniture than 
the parlor cabinet here shown. It contains shelves and 
spaces for ornaments. The carved work is in the highest 
and most modern style. The finish and workmanship are 




PARLOR CABINET. 

of the best. This cabinet can be furnished in walnut or in 
ebony finish with gold lines. The centre panel is fitted with 
a beveled French mirror twenty inches by thirty-four. All 
the lines of this cabinet will bear close study. They are 
lines of beauty. 



HOME FURNISHING. 



71 



But now comes the practical side. An irruption of com- 
pany comes upon you. Or you have not the bedroom you 
really need, and sickness disarranges the natural order. Or 
you have a cottage by the sea or elsewhere, and company 
comes. You go to your cabinet ; you set aside the orna- 
ments from the front shelves ; you manipulate it skillfully 




PARLOR CABINET BEDSTEAD. 

for a moment, when lo ! see the transformation presented 
by this second cut. You have a perfect, full-sized bedstead, 
with spring mattress and pillows, all evolved in a moment 
from the parlor cabinet. By this change the crown of the 
cabinet becomes an el ^borate footboard ; the front shelving 



72 



HOME FURNISHING. 



and mirror drop underneath. A new and beautiful head- 
board is disclosed, and all is ready for the making up of the 
bed. The inside measurement of this sumptuous place of 
rest is fifty-two inches by seventy-six. The outside measure- 
ment of .the closed cabinet is sixty-six inches by ninety-one. 

This is the Champion Automatic Bedstead, invented and 
made in Philadelphia. It is offered in various sizes and styles 
and at various prices. j^. 

But a bedstead, does ^g^H 

not furnish a bed- 
room. True, but this 
beautiful parlor desk, 
which is shown also, 
will do for a wash- 
stand. Throw up its 
top, and you find a 
permanent basin and 
all its proper accom- 
paniments. Throw 
open the doors, and 
you find a portable 
reservoir into which 
the waste water drains, 
with drawers for towels 
and other convenien- 
ces. This article can 
be had in any of the standard woods, and may be finished 
in ebony and gilt if desired. It is fitted with hand-painted 
tiles, and is ornate as well as useful. A still more artistic 
desk washstand is shown on the following page. 

In light, ornamental beauty it cannot be excelled. The 
most inquisitive observer would scarce suspect the extent 
of its practical value. It would detract nothing from the 
beauty of any parlor. Both these stands, or similar ones, 
can be furnished by any good dealer. 




PARLOR DESK WASHSTAND. 



HOME FURNISHING. 



73 



What may well be considered a masterpiece, however, is 
known as the "Telescope Bedstead." When opened out it 
is as complete as that shown a few pages back. When 
closed it appears in various forms. The movement in open- 
ing this bedstead is simply a turning down of the lower 
part of the front so that it lies parallel with the floor. The 
slab or top becomes the foot-board, supported by the side 
ornaments, of the front, which in the act of lowering come 




PORTABLE RESERVOIR WASHSTAND. 

into position as supporting feet. The part thus, formed f§ 
then drawn outward to secure the full length, leaving a 
bedstead of full size, with spring bed, hair mattress, and 
bolster complete, and of the best quality. 

These bedsteads are made in the Chiffonier, or bureau 
style ; the desk style, bevel front and cylinder front ; the 
sideboard style, the book-case style, and the ,. rgan style. 
The desk style furnishes a very useful desk, with its ink- 
stand so hung that it cannot be overturned by any move- 



74 HOME FURNISHING. 

ment of the bedstead. The book-case style furnishes a good 
sized book-case in its upper part, which is not disturbed by 
adjusting the bed portion. It also contains a desk. The 
sideboard pattern is shown in the first of the illustrations. 
Its neat and attractive form commends itself. The height 



TELESCOPE FOLDING BEDSTEAD. 

Sideboard Pattern. 



of this article is seventy-five inches; its width, fifty-nine 
inches ; its depth from front to back, twenty-six inches. Its 
mirror is ten inches by twenty-four. All of these telescopic 
bedsteads are made in plain finish, or are richly veneered, 



HOME FURNISHING. 



(Q 



handsomely carved, and embellished with ornaments, 
beveled mirrors, etc., as taste may demand or cost warrant 




TELESCOPE FOLDING BEDSTEAD. 

Cylinder Desk Pattern. 



A smaller size is made, furnishing- a bed thirty-six inches 
wide, the larger bed being fifty-two inches in width. 

The second illustration of this line is the cylinder desk 



76 



HOME FURNISHING. 



style. In dimensions it is about the same as the style just 
described. It is three inches deeper from front to back on 
account of the cylinder portion, which also includes a desk. 




TELESCOPE FOLDING BEDSTEAD. 
B jok-case Pattern. 



The upper portion is fitted with three beveled French 
mirrors. Other patterns of this style are offered. 



HOME FURNISHING. 



77 



The book-case style varies in height from the others, and 
in several respects combines more advantages than any of 
the line. Its desk and its book-shelf are both of practical 




value, and its gen- 
eral appearance is 
possibly leS'j sugges- 
tive of a variety of 
uses than in the other 
styles. 

The articles last 
described belong to a class 
known as " Combination Fur- 
niture." There is scarcely a 
limit to the possibilities of 
such articles. Tables are made 
which can be converted into 
armchairs and writing-desks ; 
children's high chairs are to 
be transformed into low chairs 
with table attachments ; ottomans can be changed into settees 
and armchairs ; an armchair can be adapted for an invalid 
couch or a library chair with reading-stand, writing-desk, etc.; 
and so through unending varieties. The climax in combi- 
nations is capped, however, by a New York cabinetmaker, 
27 



78 HOME FURNISHING. 

who has exhibited a Secretary, which combines a bedstead, 
writing-desk, bookcase, washstand, wardrobe, medicine-chest, 
secret silver-closet, dressing-bureau, jewelry-case, and, as a 
finial to the whole, a musical and alarm clock. Such a com- 
bination would need a machinist to run it. It is overdone. 

A nursery, or play-room, is indispensable where there are 
children in a home. It should have a hard wood floor, 
with a drugget or rug fastened at its centre. This can be 
removed easily for shaking or washing. Have no curtains 
or drapery in the room. Plain, dark shades will be best at 
the windows, so that light may be excluded wholly or 
admitted freely, as is desirable. A long, low table, the feet 
of which can be folded under, allowing the table to be placed 
out of the way, is just the thing for this room. Toys, books, 
strings, paper, pencils, and a good clock are needed. Have 
low chairs for the little ones as well as higher ones for the 
adults. Hang bright, cheery pictures on the walls. A 
blackboard and an assortment of colored crayons make lots 
of fun for children. Furnish one room at least where the 
little ones may romp at full liberty. 

Easy chairs and good, comfortable lounges are in place 
almost everywhere. Do not be misled into purchasing the 
stiff, hard, cylindrical affairs on which one can neither sit 
or lie with comfort. Study the picture of a comfortable 
lounge, shown on the preceding page, and get one on that 
principle. The best furniture now shows little or no wood. 
What you save in fancy woods and polish, you can spend 
in upholstery. Try it. Make home so bright, so restful, so 
homelike that no place shall be like home. 

Servants' rooms should be light and well ventilated. 
Good servants will not be satisfied with mean quarters. 
Iron bedsteads are recommended for these rooms but abso- 
lute cleanliness is more important. A bath-room for ser- 
vants is very desirable. Many of them never knew the 
luxury of a thorough bath. 



THIRD DEPARTMENT. 



ome Decoration, 



To make home what it should be — a cheerful, happy habitation, to which 
the absent members of a family may look with love, and to which the wan- 
derer will always return with joy — we must have it not only clean, for clean- 
liness is next to godliness, and wholesome, which is another way of saying 
holy, but also beautiful. Refinement cannot go with sordidness and ugliness. 

W. J. LOFTIE. 



Home Decoration. 



NEVER before was there so general an interest in the 
decoration of homes as there is to-day. A truer con- 
ception of what home should be is everywhere pre- 
vailing. It is not a mere barracks, where a family may 
congregate and sleep and eat, but it is a place of enjoyment 
and repose. To this end it must be filled with enjoyable 
and restful things ; and the enjoyment and rest must rise to 
something better than the physical. The best powers of 
the soul must be delighted as they repose at home. Noth* 
ing which offends can be tolerated there. Beauty — which 
in the old Roman tongue was decor- — is home's presiding 
genius. To decor-ate home is to bring it under beauty's sway. 

Beauty means fitness, because it always rests upon a basis 
of utility. It is never unmeaning, but can always give a 
reason for its being. The first consideration, hence, is : 
What is good for certain persons, places, and seasons ? 
What is beautiful in a palace is not so in a cottage ; what is 
beautiful at a feast is not so at a funeral. Beauty and fitness 
ever go hand in hand. 

Decorations may be fixed, forming part and parcel of the 
house itself; or they may be portable — capable of change 
in position or of entire removal. There are internal decora- 
tions and those external, and all these need attention. 

81 



I.— FIXED INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



IN treating of permanent decorations, floors first demand 
attention. What shall we do with our floors ? Floors 
are not merely to walk on. They should please the eye 
continually. Carpeting and oil-cloths have been the time- 




TESSELLATED PAVEMENT IN WHITE AND BLACK MARBLES. 

honored devices for beautifying floors, or, at least, for con- 



cealing their unsightliness. 
these usages. 



But changes have come in 



ELEGANT FLOORING. 
Beginning with the outer vestibule, or main hallway, of a 
house, oil-cloth once reigned supreme. But oil-cloth fails. 

82 



FIXED INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



83 



Its colors arc soon worn off. It becomes puffed into ridges 
and it shrinks from the surroundings. It is at best only a 
patch, a sham. Three superior substitutes for it are now 
offered t \ 

(i) Marble is used either in one uniform piece, or with 
borderings of other color ; or it may be cut into squares, 
diamonds, etc. Noth- 
ing for a hall or vesti- 
bule can be superior to 
marble. The material 
and its style may be 
plain and quite inex- 
pensive, or they may 
be of the richest 
grades, as shown on 
page 424, with sur- 
roundings of carving 
and sculpture, which 
run the cost into tens 
of thousands of dol- 
lars for a single en- 
trance-way. Wain- 
scoting should be in 
harmony with the 
flooring. One motive 
should rule each 

apartment. It should MARBLE staircase in the sultan's new 
not seem that the palace, Constantinople. 

builder started with a grand idea, but ran out of funds 
and finished in a cheap way. The above illustration is 
not a pattern that many will imitate, but it is a model of 
harmony. Marble is the one rich material, and elegance 
breathes in every feature. Wooden balusters and handrail 
on this marble stairway would be a disgraceful incon- 
sistency. Unity of purpose must prevail. 




84 



HOME DECORATION. 



(2) Tiling and mosaic work take rank with marble, and 
may surpass it in cost. The most beautiful tiles in the world 

are the Minton, man- 
ufactured in England, 
but represented in this 
country by Sharpless 
& Watts, Philadelphia. 
The elegance of this 
work is well illustra- 
ted by fine specimens 
in almost every grand 
home. These tiles are 
glazed, enameled, or 
plain. They are made 
in all desirable colors 
and shapes. Some 
are embossed, others 
printed, and the finest 
are painted by hand. 
Tiles are suitable for 
vestibules, hallways, 
wainscoting, hearths, 
facing and lining fire- 
places and mantels, for 
bath-room walls and 
floors, for flower- 
boxes, panelings of 
doors, and ornaments 
in door casings. The 
choicest of them may 
be framed richly and 
serve as superb wall 
pictures. The decora- 
tive uses to which tiles are put are practically numberless. 
Mosaic work differs from tiling in the smallness of its 




BORDERINGS AND CORNERS FOR INLAID 
FLOORS. 



FIXED INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



85 



pieces and the consequent increase of possibilities for artistic 
effects in their use. Its cost is proportionately greater, of 
course. There are many grades of tiles and mosaics, but 
the best will last a lifetime, and are worth all they cost. 

(3) Inlaid floors are just the thing for dining-rooms and 
other much-used and more public rooms of the house. 
This work may be elaborate and very expensive, or it may 
be plain and of low price. Three methods of preparing 
these floors are followed. The first employs the ordinary 
tongued and grooved boards, laid diagonally or in other 
patterns ; the second kind is made of pieces, usually seven- 




FIRE-PLACE TILING IN MAJOR ANDRE'S ROOM, BEEKMAN MANSION, 

NEW YORK. 

eighths of an inch thick, cut and fitted together in blocks of 
any desired patterns, in sections usually twelve or twenty- 
two inches square ; the third method is to make up the 
design required from lumber one-quarter of an inch thick, 
glue the edges together, and then glue this pattern to a 
backing of hard wood. These are called veneered floors, 
and this is the style used ' in all elaborate designs, as it 
admits of much greater variety of patterns than either of 
the other methods. In Europe all such floors are known 
as Parquetry, or Marquetry, and their use is universal in 
the better houses. 



86 



HOME DECORATION. 



A much cheaper and very satisfactory substitute for these 
forms of fancy floor-work is " Wood Carpeting," an inven- 
tion of Mr. E. C. Hussey, an American architect. Agencies 




WOOD-CARPET FILLINGS IN VARIOUS PATTERNS. 

for this valuable article can be found in most of our cities. 
It is not, as many suppose, a temporary floor covering, to 
be laid down and taken up at pleasure, but a permanent new 
floor on top of the old one, and is carefully fitted into all the 



FIXED INTERNAL DECORATION''. 



87 



offsets and around all the projections of the room. It is 
firmly nailed down with small brads, and when finished has 









WOOD-CARPET PATTERNS FOR WAINSCOTING. 

the effect of a thick European floor. It is made, however, 
in the same elaborate and beautiful designs by the process 
of gluing the wood on cloth, instead of to another piece of 



88 



HOME DECORATION. 



wood. So it is made at a much less cost, and occupies but 
one-quarter of an inch, instead of one inch or more in thick- 
ness, as with thick Parquet. 

The common remark, " A bare floor is so cheerless," 
comes wholly from the impression given by an ordinary 
pine floor with its unsightly cracks, and from not having 
seen the effect of a well-laid Parquet floor, in combination 
with the furniture and other articles in keeping with the 
character of the room in which it is laid. 




SCINDE RUG FOR FLOOR CENTRES. 
[Characterized by borders with angular vine work. Prevailing colors, red, yellow, and blue. J 

When rugs are used on the floor of a room — as is now 
the prevailing fashion — a border of wood only is laid, into 
which the rug fits exactly. Rug and border are about the 
same thickness, and so the rug is not liable to be displaced 
nor an unaccustomed foot to trip over it. There are three 
ways of finishing these floors. 

1st. By giving them a good soaking coat of " Parquet 
oil." This should be renewed at least once a month. 
Apply with a rag and wipe off as dry as possible. The 



FIXED INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



89 



best substitute for " Parquet oil " is five parts of good, light 
mineral oil to one part of good, light Japan. 

2d. By putting on two or three coats of best white shellac 





Wood carpeting is here 
shown as- laid for a rug centre. 
Two patterns are represented, 
with bay-window projection, 
ornamental corners, etc. The 
centre in this arrangement is 
one-quarter of an inch below 
the bordering, allowing the 
]! rug to lie with its upper surface 
>n a level with the border. 



SI Vi ' &/ - »&■""& 



" tS m m ^f , 



H 



with a brush. Plane, scrape, sand-paper, punch the nails 
and putty up in a most thorough manner before shellacing, 
and sand-paper lightly after each coat but the last. 



90 HOME DECORATION. 

3d. By waxing. This is the European plan, and if per- 
severed in, as 'there, is the best known finish for floors. Use 
pure white beeswax dissolved in best deodorized benzine 
with gentle heat, or in turpentine. Apply while warm to 
the floor with a rag, then polish with a heavy waxing brush 
thoroughly. The brush must be used often and well to get 
and maintain a good polish and the desired smoothness. 



WOOD-CARPET FLOORING AND WAINSCOTING. 

Illustrations of wood-carpeting are given, though the fine 
effect of variously colored woods does not appear in a plain 
print. These floors should not be used in vestibules and 
halls, where they are exposed to the weather. Such places 
require marble or tiles which endure exposure and are in 
nowise injured thereby. 

If these methods of beautifying are too expensive, the 
floors may be simply stained and polished. A cheap 



FIXED INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



91 



method of securing a neat floor is to cover it tightly with 
muslin and to cover this with an unobtrusive wall-paper. A 
border .nay be run around the edge and a good coat of var- 
nish added. Dancing would mar such a covering ; but if 
rugs be laid in the places of hardest wear, it will serve well 
and last long. This plan is especially adapted to a music- 
room, where clear, distinct sounds are desirable. 

BEAUTIFUL WALLS. 

After the floors, the walls come in for consideration. 
When papers can be had 
at prices so low and in 
styles so elegant as now, 
bare, cold walls in white- 
wash or paint are inex- 
cusable. Indeed, they 
are extravagant — for 
better results can be had 
for far less expense. So 
elaborate have paper- 
hangings become that 
they are in great part 
supplanting the fresco- 
work formerly so much 
used in elegant houses. 
Wall hangings are offer- 
ed at from eight or ten 
cents to twenty and 
twenty-five dollars a 
roll. Just now the pre- 
vailing taste is to the 
quieter forms and col- 
ors. The following illustration of a ceiling decoration in 
paper is from one of the most artistic establishments of New 
York. The quiet elegance of its forms are seen at a glance 




ORNAMENTAL FRIEZE PATTERNS. 
[Design by Fr. Beck & Co., New York.] 



92 



HOME DECORATION. 



and the color effects would heighten it greatly. The lead- 
ing producers of paper-hangings are sparing no pains to 
produce results which shall in all respects be artistic and 
elegant. One house offered three prizes, respectively of 
$1,000, $500, and $250, for the best designs. The result 
was the selection of three offerings, all of them combining 
an idea from nature, a water idea, a beehive idea, etc., and 
all of them conspicuous for rich simplicity and artistic effect. 
As illustrative of beautiful frieze patterns, two seLections 
from the choicest patterns now offered are shown in cuts 
above. An elegant Easter Lily pattern, also for frieze work, 

is shown in the adjoin- 
ing engraving. But 
these are samples only. 
The variety is wide as 
the freaks and fancies 
of genius. Indeed, the 
genius of the past is 
laid under contribution 
also to beautify our 
19th-century homes. 
Antique forms are 
much in demand, and 
easter lily pattern for frieze. the very ruins of the 

world have been scoured to furnish suggestions for modern 
decoration. The trouble with these strange forms is that it 
is hard to make them harmonious with the other appoint- 
ments of the room. If there is an Egyptian or Chinese or 
Japanese room wherein the peculiarities of these nations are 
the dominating motive, then you have an harmonious effect. 
Such a result is artistic. But a Japanese banner, on a Chi- 
nese paper, with a French ceiling, a Turkish rug, and 
American furniture, is too much of a mongrel to be in- 
dorsed by good taste. 

In fine wall decorations there are many specialties. En> 




FIXED INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



93 




CEILING DECORATION IN PAPER. 
[Design by Fr. Beck & Co., New York.] 



91 



HOME DECORATION. 



bossed papers are well known, and they are constantly im- 
proving in style. New materials have appeared also, chief 
among which is " Lincrusta Walton " — a preparation of 
ground cork and linseed oil. This has the tenacity and 
flexibility of leather. It can be bent around any curve and 
it will endure the hardest wear. In its preparatory state it 
is subjected to heavy pressure under molded rollers, whereby 
its upper surface is brought out in bold relief, while its under 




ANCIENT EGYPTIAN WALL DECORATION. 

surface remains entirely smooth, so promoting its facility of 
adhesion to the wall. The relief-effect on this substance 
may be made very prominent. It also takes coloring beauti- 
fully and becomes as enduring as the wall itself. It is the 
invention of Mr. Frederick Walton, an English architect, 
and is now made for this country at Stamford, Conn., and is 
«old by first-class paper-hangers everywhere. 

Lincrusta-Walton has been largely used, both abroad and 
in this country, in palaces, mansions, country houses, 



FIXED INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 95 

theatres, hospitals, churches, hotels, clubs, and other public 
and private buildings ; also in yachts, in the vessels of the 
British Navy, and of the Cunard, Inman, White Star, British 
Indian, and other steamship lines. Wherever the effects of 




CHINESE FURNISHING AND WALL DECORATION. 

carving are desired, Lincrusta- Walton is in demand. " Noth- 
ing less than stern necessity," says a writer on this article, 
" should compel an architect to forego, in interiors, the in- 
finitely various and charming effects produced by light 
glancing on raised, rounded, and re-entering surfaces in 



96 



HOME DECORATION. 



addition to the ordinary methods of pleasing the eye by 
colors and lines. It is only necessary to see the interiors of 
grand French buildings, with their admirable moldings, or 
the Gothic carvings of Belgian town halls and old English 
cathedral choirs, to appreciate the unapproachable refine- 
ment and beauty of work in relief." 

The advantages of Lincrusta- Walton have been thus sum- 
marized : " For the interior decoration of houses its warm 

















K &$ 







' 














'■■rn-'-~ 




m -..-_ : : : : 




— ,i..:ia«:rr 








h:;:::tl« 


C;"+~n 


i»^;i! 



■,;.- ■■■■*■« ' " J .: £,-*---/C* 






*w 



wi 



JAPANESE DINING AND WALL DECORATION. 

and comfortable surface makes it peculiarly applicable. It 
has no glaze to break up and reflect the light with the cold 
glitter of Dutch tiles, nor does the moisture of the air con- 
dense upon its surface, unless water is present in excessive 
quantities in the atmosphere. It is not warped, cast, eaten 
by worms, or pulverized like wood. It does not become 
ice-cold in winter and hot in summer, like stone and terra- 
cotta. It does not absorb moisture and give it out again, 
I ike uncovered brick and plaster. On the contrary, it offers 



FIXED INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 97 

an impermeable resistance to wet from within or without, 
and if the air within is so dangerously damp as to communi- 
cate moisture to the walls. Lincrusta- Walton does not con- 
ceal the effect by absorbing the moisture." 

A substance termed " Gerveta " is coming into use for 
high grades of decoration. Its general effects are like those 
of Lincrusta, but more bold and prominent, as Gerveta is 
applied to the walls in a pulpy state and is there worked by 
molds and tools. It may also be worked separately, though 
to work it on the wall is deemed preferable, securing more 
perfect adhesion and bolder effects. 

The substances just named have great possibilities in 
artistic hands. Paneled ceilings and covered walls ; doors 
and door-jambs inset with these preparations ; wainscoting 
and heavy furniture, similarly adorned ; fire screens, picture 
frames, newel posts, and lighter decorations, resplendent 
with a variety of patterns and colors, are some of the uses 
of these wares. Inquiry concerning these goods should be 
made by all parties interested in extensive or even incidental 
decorations. 

Fresco paintings were the dominant mural decorations of 
the world until a somewhat recent day. The artists of St. 
Peter's, St. Paul's, and other grand structures are immor- 
talized by that class of work. It is seldom now that homes 
are frescoed throughout. Ceilings are often finished thus 
in part, or even entire, for the sake of the freedom and grace 
thus attainable. The best of papers must, to a great degree, 
be set and formal ; but in fresco there are no limits, save in 
the capacity of the artist or the purse of his customer. For 
home walls, at least, this art has suffered decline. More 
effective decoration can be had in other ways, especially for 
private houses. 

But the highest style of wall decoration demands some- 
thing more elegant than either paper or'paint. Silks, satins, 
and laces fill this requirement Silk or satin decorations 



98 



HOME DECORATION. 




I— < 

a 

<— < 

u 

w 
o 
u 

o 

a 
w 

<! 

N 

O 

Cd 

en 
U 

< 



FIXED INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



99 



are attached to light frames, over which muslin is stretched 
as a basis. These frames fit the wall closely from wain- 
scoting to cornice. Silk may be stretched smoothly on 
these frames, or it may be fluted, or gathered to a central 
rosette, or worked in any other beautiful design. To pad 
the silk into a light cushion and tuft it is very elegant. 
This silk finish may remain uncovered, or, from a rod at the 
cornice, Gobelin laces or < ^^^ ^ ^^ ^ 



other tapestries may hang 
to a point a little below 
the top of the wainscoting. 
The combinations of ma- 
terial, colors, and graceful 
forms which may be pro- 
duced in this style of work 
are numberless. The silks 
may be plain, watered, or 
figured ; they may be of 
one color or of many har- 
monizing colors in stripes ornamental moorish ceiling. 
of greater or less width. The laces may be of various quali- 
ties and patterns, and may hang free, or be draped apart in 
sections, or be fluted close to the foundation-silk or satin. 

Carving also lends its aid to the decoration of walls, ceil- 
ings, doors, door-jambs, window frames, etc. Papier-mache 
and stucco produce very satisfactory results in this direc- 
tion ; but imitations are not admitted in first-class mansions. 
Genuine hard woods, carved by hand, are required there. 
John La Farge, the New York decorator, spent $100,000 
on a single room of Cornelius Vanderbilt's mansion. 

A hundred thousand dollars can soon be spent on one 
room where floors are laid in mosaic ; where door-jambs are 
elaborate carvings ; where door-heads are networks of ex- 
quisite chiseling in the rarest and richest woods; where 
statuary adorns the corners and the niches; where groined 




100 HOME DECORATION. 

arches spring to centres of carved or of inlaid work studded 




with decorator's jewels ; where windows are of stained glass, 
wrought into most delicate forms and adorned with jewels 



FIXED INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



101 



o 

> 
r 

(/> 

r 

pi 

o 
o 

I 

H 

B 
PI 

H 
W 
53 
O 

PI 

JO 
C 
O 

K 

o 

•=3 



o 

w 

o 

n 

> 

en 
H 
f 




102 HOME DECORATION. 

which glow like real gems ; and where satin-covered walls 
are draped with exquisite Gobelin laces. 

The centre-piece of the Hon. Samuel J. Tilden's dining- 
room ceiling in New York city is an elaborate carving 
representing branches of trees, amid which birds seem to be 




BANQUETING-ROOM OF THE MANSION HOUSE, DUBLIN. 

flitting, and in which their nests, with eggs and young, are 
resting. Any amount of money may be spent on such 
work. 

Chandeliers afford fine opportunity for splendor in deco- 
ration. The nickel -plated or the glass-covered and prism- 



FIXED INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



103 



decorated styles are most popular, because of the magnifi- 
cence of their illumination. Globes or shades for these 
fixtures are fated, ground, enameled, figured, highly 





ELEGANTLY ORNAMENTED VESTIBULE LAMPS. 

colored, or cut — thus affording wide and elegant variety. 
They are even more diverse in their forms, so that if ele- 
gance is missed in the chandelier and side-lights, it is not 
chargeable to lack of assortment from which to choose. 



104 



HOME DECORATION. 



Lamps, too, are wrought into very elegant forms. They 
may adorn as well as illuminate our homes, and are adapted 
for halls, parlors, and all other apartments. 

Stained-glass windows present one of the richest effects 

in ornamentation. They 
have been in use since 
the sixth century, and 
have ever held their su- 
premacy with lovers of 
the beautiful. Objects 
presented by stained 
glass are shown by 
transmitted light in all 
the fullness and richness 
of their colors. Objects 
presented by reflected 
light, as when one views 
pictures and solid orna- 
ments, are to some ex- 
tent shorn of their rich 
coloring. The surround- 
ing white light produces 
somewhat of grayness 
on all colors. To test 
this, notice the shade of 
a delicate leaf when seen 
only by reflected light ; 
then hold it between the 
eye and the sunlight so 
as to see its coloring by 
means of transmission. 
The fine effect of stained-glass windows is heightened by 
the dark lines of the sash-bars about the several pieces of 
glass. These serve to intensify the rich colorings, which 
diffuse through the apartment a warm, genial, brilliant glow. 




PATTERN FOR STAINED-GLASS WINDOW. 



FIXED INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



105 



The glass throughout a house should be made appropriate 
for its particular position, and so add a greater charm to 
such beautiful work. In the vestibule- doors, words of greet- 
ing ; in the dining-room, fruits, flowers, fishes, etc. General 
pieces may adorn the 
sitting-rooms, etc., two 
samples of which, from 
a series representing the 
seasons, suitable for any 
apartment, are given as 
illustrations of outline 
merely, the charm of 
color being absent. 
Where a single piece of 
stained-glass work is 
wanted, nothing could 
be better than a hand- 
some fire-screen, which 
in the daytime catches 
the reflecting lights, 
and in the evening is 
lit up by the open fire- 
place. Such a piece is 
always handsome and 
never out of fashion. 

The American de- 
parture in glass marks 
a new era, and by the 
use of new forms of 
glass, as the " irides- PATTERN F OR stained-g^ass window. 
cent," " opalescent," " Venetian," " Florentine," and many 
others, more brilliant and artistic results have been obtained 
than ever before. To the architect, these glasses furnish 
the richest of all decorations ; to the artist, they present a 
wide field for sacred, historical, and heraldic illustrations; 




106 



HOME DECORATION. 



to the householder, they offer one of the best means of 
making home attractive. A judicious expenditure for 
stained glass will prove the correctness of the old adage, 
"A thing of beauty is a joy forever." 




IMITATION STAINED-GLASS DESIGNS FOR TRANSOMS. 

The costliness of stained glass is a great objection to its 
use. This varies in proportion to the quality of glass used, 
richness of design, smallness of pieces, numerousness of 
"jewels," etc. For home uses, what is known as " Imita- 
tion Stained Glass" is a very satisfactory substitute. It is 
made of thin, translucent sheets of richly colored and 
elegantly designed papers, closely imitating the genuine 
stained glass. It is durable, inexpensive, and easily applied 



FIXED INTERNAL DECORA TIONS. 



107 



to any window. It is covered by an American patent, and 
can be had in the prominent cities of dealers and decorators, 
who also can apply it if desired. Four outline designs of this 
preparation are given 
to illustrate its styles. 
The transoms show 
combinations which 
may readily be 
worked into other 
forms. They are 
composed of borders, 
grounds, and centres, 
either of which can 
be used in an end- 
less variety of ways. 
The library window 
shows the combina- 
tion applied to the 
entire opening. The 
emblem of wisdom is 
appropriate here. In 
a dining-room win- 
dow, birds, fruits, or 
game would suit bet- 
ter. In a parlor, mu- 
sic and flowers, or the 
Muses, the Graces, 
etc., would be more 
at home. The panel 
pattern shown on the 
page next following 
is suitable for any 
door, being beautiful, but not of decided characteristics. 
A French preparation, " Diaphanie," is offered for the 
same purpose ; also, " Glacier," an American patented 




IMITATION STAINED-GLASS DESIGN FOR 
LIBRARY WINDOW. 



108 



HOME DECORATION. 



article. In the Diaphanie French skill appears, and the 
designs are of great and beautiful pictorial variety, including 
coats-of-arms, religious subjects, landscapes, fruits, flowers, 

historic and chivalric subjects, 
etc., etc. The leading papermen 
and decorators anywhere can 
refer to agents for Diaphanie. 
Glacier can be had of paint and 
glass dealers generally. Proba- 
bly the best method is to combine 
these several preparations, select- 
ing from- each that which is best 
suited to the specific work pro- 
posed. Great opportunity for the 
exercise of good taste is afforded 
in the use of these materials. 

With home windows in the 
ordinary form, a very happy effect 
is produced by covering the up- 
per half with imitations of stained 
glass (unless, indeed, the genuine 
article be used), and then hanging 
the window shade for the lower 
half only. This shade should be 
dense and not brilliant in color, 
so that all the light of the room 
shall take its mellowing from 
the colors above. An upper shade 
may be used to exclude glare. 
The excellence of all stained glass 
effects depends on transmitting all the light. Reflected 
light always detracts from the beauty of stained glass. 




IMITATION STAINED GLASS 
DESIGN FOR PANEL. 



II.— PORTABLE INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 

THERE are important decorations in the home which 
are not part of the house itself. They are personal 
property, not real estate. They are carried with their 
owner in his migrations and are adapted to each new 
resting place he may find. Of these we may discuss, first : 

CARVINGS, PICTURES, AND CURTAINS. 




RICHLY DECORATED APARTMENT. 



In the hallway there may be carvings, statuary, or vases. 
The stag's head or horns is much used in this situation — 

109 



110 



HOME DECORATION. 



rather too much, indeed. A buffalo's head is too heavy 
and beastly for a beautiful home. Armorial carvings are 
light and ornamental as wall decorations, but real armor is 
better. In a hallway it is suggestive of romance ; for as we 
leave hats, canes, and riding-whips in the hall, ready for use 
as we pass out, so the olden knights left swords, helmets, 
and battle-axes there, ready to be used at a moment's 
notice. On the same principle, ancient arms or historic 
weapons may be there, though the peaceful home-tastes of 
most people prefer more quiet emblems. The Alpen-stocks, 
now so popular with mountain tourists, may properly rest 
with other trophies of travel in the main hallway. 





POLISHED BRASS UMBRELLA AND CANE STANDS. 

Ideal fitness must rule in all decoration. Because in 
conflict with it. pictures are rarely in place in hallways. 
You can seldom get a standpoint from which to view them 
properly, and it is a farce to locate pictures where their 
effect is lost. On this ideal fitness, the old family clock is 
properly placed in the hallway, where it may mark the 
incomings and the outgoings, and where it will sound out 



PORTABLE INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



Ill 



the passing hours for all in the house. Longfellow, who, 
more than any of our poets, touched the heart and home- 
life of our people, had his old clock on the stairs and in 
his hall the bust of Washington, who once made his head- 
quarters in that very house. There are pictures in the 
hallway there and on the landings ; but they are little gems 
which need close 
observation, and 
can be fully seen. 

In the dining- 
room, decorations 
may be held to 
the five F's — 
namely, Fish, 
Flesh, Fowl, 
Fruits, Flowers. 
These may be in 
carved work or in 
paintings, either 1 
fixed or movable 
mottoes are used on din- 
ing-room walls, which is by 
no means to be advised, do seek 
one different from " Eat, Drink 
and be Merry," and other conven- 
tional platitudes which are so 
common in the cheap boarding-houses. 

In the sitting and sleeping 
rooms the eternal fitness of^| 
things must be observed. Ease stairway of the Longfellow 

. . . . , , MANSION. 

and pleasure are desirable 

here, and articles which promote them are always in order. 
But such articles have their own character, and should be 
located accordingly. There are articles for the parlor, 
others for the dining-room, and so throughout the house. 




112 



HOME DECORATION., 



A piano is not for fit the bed-room, though a music-box 
may be allowed there. Nor are superb paintings for bed- 
rooms, but for more public places. Where there are many 
fine paintings, it is worth while to have a picture gallery or 
apartment where lovers of art may sit undisturbed and 
enjoy their favorites. Much of a collection of fine paintings 
is a luxury permitted to but few, as none but millionaires 
can hold the celebrated pieces. But from these costly 
works there is a gradually descending scale till the little, 




PICTURE GALLERY OF MALMAISON. 
[The favorite residence of Josephine.] 

inexpensive gems of true art — such as Prang, of Boston, 
furnishes — are reached. These are artistic and exquisite. 
They charm and elevate, and one such is worth far more 
than a roomful of daubs, such as wandering auctioneers and 
artistic tramps hawk about. 

A beautiful illustration of fitness in decoration is afforded 
in the music-room of a wealthy musical gentleman of Cin- 
cinnati. He has there a grand organ, two pianos, a cabinet 
organ, a harp, and many other musical instruments, together 



PORTABLE INTERNAL DECORATION"?. 



113 



with pictures of the masters and curious musical instruments 
of other days and lands. In the ground-glass transom of 
the entrance-door the opening strain of " Home, Sweet 
Home" is wrought. . Over the 
grand organ the opening strain of 
the " Hallelujah Chorus " is fres- 
coed in the cove of the cornice, at 
other points of which snatches of 
other celebrated compositions are 
wrought so delicately as to escape 
casual observation, and yet so 
beautifully as to charm every artistic 
eye which catches them. 

All living things turn toward the 
light. The bright side of a room 
is that most seen. The parts next 
the windows are those for special 
effect. A mirror between windows 
is condemned by some critics. One 
says : " People of taste . . . some- 
times put mirrors in this spot. 
Philistines always do." But the 
poorest light of the room is just 
there. An observer at that point is 
dazzled with the radiance on either 
side and cannot see clearly what 
stands between. A mirror there, 
however, reflects the illuminated 
objects of the room, and does so 
all the more from receiving no direct light itself. Put a 
mirror between the windows, therefore. In front of it a 
piece of statuary will be seen to advantage by direct and 
reflected views. This may to some extent obscure the 
mirror, but in a parlor its use is not as a dressing-glass, 
but to beautify and enlarge the room. 




JARDINIERE STAND. 

[Metal, variously finished.] 



114 



HOME DECORATION. 



In the front corners of the room, statuary, jardinieres with 
flowers, or any beautiful objects which are high, but not 
broad, are appropriate. Statuary should always be shown 

against a suitable background — very 
dark for white marble and bright 
colors for the Rogers' groups or 
other dark-colored pieces. 

When statuettes are used upon 
brackets or cabinets, this principle 
must be observed. On ebony a pure, 
white ornament is splendid. Bronze 
shows to best advantage on white. 
Dark walls are best for gold frames 
and rich-colored paintings. 

Do not feel compelled to make 
each article of an apartment balance 
with some other article. Irregularity 
is more natural than regularity. The 
finest mosaics are purposely made 
irregular to avoid the " machine- 
made" appearance. Do not square 
your chairs with the walls ; do not 
set them at one inevitable angle. Do 
not keep things forever in one place. 
Nature is free in her forms and her 
movements, and the highest art 
walks lovingly with her. 
Changes in arrangement come from various demands. 
Persons weary of one style. " Variety is the spice of life." 
Even a less elegant change is preferable for a time to stolid 
grandeur. The march of improvement, too, demands 
change. Competition in fabrics of all kinds begets improve- 
ment. Better goods come into the markets continuously, 
crowding out the old and the inferior and making place for 
the new and the better. 




JARDINIERE STAND. 
[Metal, variously finished.] 



PORTABLE INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



115 



It has become quite popular, and deservedly so on many 
accounts, to curtain doorways as shown in the cut. Where 

there are sliding 
dooisthey remain 
to be used when 
required. Hinged 
doors are usually 
removed entirely 
when curtains are 
employed. In an 
arched doorway 
the curtain should 
hang from a rod 
on a level with the 
spring of the arch ; 
unless, indeed, the 
opening lead into 
a cold apartment, 
from which chill- 
ing drafts might 
come. For such 
an opening, how- 
ever, a more solid 
door seems best. 
Rods and rings of 
polished wood are 
the proper articles 
for these uses. Metal rings are not now used with curtains. 
The material of the curtaining may be as varied as the 
tastes and purses of parties demand. Curtaining doorways 
is, however, a movement in the direction of luxury and 
beauty. It should express itself, therefore, in elegant, if 
not sumptuous, forms. 

Real elegance can assert itself in many ways. The 
carpetings, the wail papers, the curtains, the substantial 




CURTAINED DOORWAY 



116 



HOME DECORATION. 



furniture, the shelves and racks for ornaments, the i ;rd 
cages, the flowers, everything, can be invested with an air 
of refinement, or it can lie inelegant and unattractive, (n 




A PEEP AT ELEGANCE. 

such surroundings there is a grand inspiration to personal 
elegance. Our surroundings and ourselves are part and 
parcel of one great whole. It is not we that make our 
surroundings merely, but our surroundings in turn make 
us. We are molded by the things we mold. The very 
act of fashioning beautiful forms forms us into beautiful 
fashion. And so the peep at elegance, as given in the cut, 
is without any inelegant detractions. 



PORTABLE INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



117 



A pen picture of the private apartments of the President 
of the United States will be of interest. The sleeping-room 




of His Excellency is a model of tasteful and rich furnishing. 
The curtains, carpets, portieres, and paper of this room are 
of a pale-blue tint, commonly known as pigeon-egg blue, 



113 HOME DECORATION. 

and the furniture, with the exception of the bedstead, 
corresponds with the other appointments. 

Adjoining this room is the private study of the President. 
Surrounded by books of choice engravings, photographs of 
intimate friends, and articles of vertu indescribable — a cozier 
nook could not have been selected, and the view on all sides 
is charming. 

Passing out of the study into a large hall, one is impressed 
by the magnificent surroundings. Several of the best works 
of Bierstadt adorn the walls, a large painting of the Yellow- 
stone region being the most striking. A unique and 
handsome cigar-stand, formed of the head of a Texas calf 
and three steers' horns, highly polished and mounted in 
silver, is placed near a favorite lounging-place of the Presi- 
dent. A large, semi-circular window of French plate, 
surmounted by jeweled designs in glass, is at the end of 
this apartment, and the perfume of the choicest flowers in 
the conservatory beneath scents the air. Easy chairs, 
lounges, and tete-a-tetes are scattered through the hall and 
invite delicious rest from the affairs of state. 

A large, carved door opens from the hall into the bed- 
room at the southwest angle of the mansion, in which the 
late President Garfield suffered. A communicating door 
opens into the large room used by the doctors in attendance 
upon the stricken President. The most notable article in 
this apartment is a handsomely carved mahogany bedstead, 
bearing in bold relief the coat-of-arms of the United States, 
the whole surmounted by a heavy red silk canopy. A pair 
of steps lead up to the bed, upon which are four mattresses, 
topped off by a feather bed. The furniture of the room is 
of a heavy, sombre, antique pattern. This furniture is 
valued at thousands of dollars and is the only thing about 
the mansion which connects the past with the present. 

Another pen-picture, showing some of the elegancies of 
the house of William H. Vanderbilt — the grandest private 



PORTABLE INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 119 

mansion of America — will be welcome. The hall is sixty- 
feet deep by twenty wide. In the centre, upon the right 
side, is the grand staircase, down whose broad flight the 
daylight streams, mellowed through stained-glass Venetian 
windows. Opposite the staircase, in the hall, is a splendid 
fireplace. The andirons are of iron hammered into artistic 
shape and furnished with chains. Five torches, with wax 
candles, give brilliancy to the hall by night. The candles 
are held in bronze branches which spring from bronze 
columns, up which Cupids climb. The walls are wainscoted 
with Caen stone, elaborately carved, the panels separated 
by classic pilasters and decorated with scroll work. A 
drapery of Oriental silk hangs above the stone-work, 
embroidered with figures of birds. The mantel-piece of this 
hall is a wondrous work of art, made of Caen stone and 
ornamented with superb carving. Looking from this fire- 
place up the staircase, the eye meets the twelve Caesars in 
two stained windows, each on topaz-colored medallions on 
a ground of ruby red. Between the two windows stand 
female saints in carved wood, with carved pedestals and 
arching canopies. The side-wall and the balustrade are of 
Caen stone, the balusters being of acanthus leaves termi- 
nating in dragons' heads. 

At the end of the hall is the dining-room, thirty-five feet 
wide and fifty-four feet long, its ceiling of dark, carved wood 
thirty-two feet above its floor. In a deep recess at the 
western end of the room is a stained-glass window of 
enormous size, representing the meeting of Henry VIII of 
England with Francis I of France. Four chandeliers hang 
from the groined ceiling. Here, too, is a huge fireplace of 
richly carved stone and terra cotta. The walls are covered 
with Venetian gilt and colored leather. A frieze above the 
mantel of the fireplace in the dining-room represents sea- 
nymphs and Cupid sporting in the waters and playing with 
sea-horses and seals. Above this is a solid work of carved oak. 



120 



HOME DECORATION. 



The drawing-room is thirty-four feet wide by forty feel 
long. The walls are paneled in cream color, with gilt 
moldings, and on the doors hang hunting trophies of gilt. 
The doors once belonged to an old French chateau. The 
fireplace is of two marbles, super-ornamented with heavy 
bronzes. The ceiling is adorned with the fresco work of 
Baudry, of Paris, representing Olympus and its gods and 
goddesses. The ceiling is circular in form and the corners 
are filled with triangular panels, in which are figures of 
Cupid. A large mirror is set in the paneling above the 




ROYAL BED-CHAMBER OF THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE. 

fireplace. Branched, candlesticks of brass hold out their 
lights from the walls and two torches of white marble stand 
before the entrance, 

The Japanese room of this mansion is superb as the 
boudoir of an Oriental princess. The ceiling shows open 
rafters ; the upper portion of the walls is finished in bamboo, 
while around the lower portion is cabinet work, tinted in 
rich red lacquer. On each side of the door a life-size 
figure in Japanese costume holds aloft a magnificent cluster 
of lights. One of the grandest features of this sumptuous 



PORTABLE INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



121 



room is its stained glass window. It represents flowers and 
birds, the main object being a peacock, the tail of which is 
pronounced a marvel of splendor and fidelity. 

DECORATIONS FROM NATURE. 

Home decoration owes an immense debt to flowers. These 
beautiful adornments are so free, so fragrant, so varied, 
and such favorites with all, that every true home should 
be brightened by them. Granting that it be a city home, 
with no lawn, no trees, no extended flower beds, still, 
within the house, by a little skill and care, beauty may be 
made to smile the year through. While snow and sleet 
reign without, buds and blossoms may reign within. 

The cut below is a bright illustration of what may be in 
any home by careful window gardening. 




A window for flowers must 
be upon the sunny side of 
the house. Unless the sashes 
fit unusually tight, a double sash will be needed for 
the winter, as the winds will almost certainly penetrate 
the room and nip the tender plants. If the heat of the 



122 



HOME DECORA TION. 



room fall off during the night, this danger will be greatly 
increased. And yet an arrangement must be made for an 
abundance of fresh air. Want of oxygen is as fatal to plants 
as to people. 

The equipment for such a window garden as this cut rep- 
resents are few, simple, and inexpensive. Hanging-baskets 
are innumerable in style and price, as will be illustrated in 
the pages beyond. Wire flower stands are very pretty, sub- 
stantial, and cheap. Flower-pots may be had in all styles. 
The old-fashioned earthern pots cost very little. It was 
once thought they were the only ones which, by virtue of 
their porous character, would effectually promote plant 
growth. But that idea was erroneous. You may paint the 
pots, so beautifying them even while you destroy their 
porosity ; or you may use any of the many forms of glazed 
and ornamented pots now offered at the stores. 




VARIETIES IN FLOWER-POTS. 

What actually has been done in Bay-window Gardening 
is shown in the next cut, which is from a photograph. The 
floor of this bay-window is finished in hard wood. This is 
desirable, as it allows free watering of the plants without 
damage to carpets. An oil-cloth covering, or a floor laid 
with tile, neither of which need cost much, answer well. It 
is a good plan to have a hard-wood floor laid upon the 



TOR TABLE INTERNAL TECORAT10NS. 



123 



reguiar floor, thus making the bay-window flooring slightly 
higher than the main floor. A tenant may make this por- 
table, so as to be easily removed, if need be. 




THE BAY-WINDOW GARDEN. 

The pots in this window are placed directly on the floor. 
The corner pots contain ivy vines, which are trained up the 
wood-work and across the window head with very pretty 
effect. The strip on the floor, around the pots, is merely 
to give a good finish to the outline of the room. It maybe 
movable or permanent, as is desired. The plants to be 
used must be selected by advice of a florist, who knows the 
exact possibilities of the locality. Houses have peculiarities, 
also, which must be discovered. The purse, too, needs con- 
sultation, for from very inexpensive plants one may rise to 
those of finest character and highest cost. Birds, vases, 
hanging-baskets, and other elements of such gardens will 
be discussed hereafter. One thing must be remembered, 
however, in this connection, namely : A bay-window gar- 



124 



HOME DECORA TWIST. 



den cannot be used. for much else. It cannot be a play- 
ground, a smoking-room, or a lounging-place, though it 
makes a beautiful sitting-place for the ladies in their mo- 
ments of leisure. 

No advice as to the care of plants for a window garden 
will apply everywhere. The best way is to consult local 
florists who are successful, and to observe carefully your 
own experiences. Generally speaking, the best flower for the 



I 



«J!i 111! 



IL 

Bill 

Hill K 
■Una 





SQUARE BAY-WINDOW GARDEN. 

house is the geranium. It requires but little care, is never 
troubled with green fly or red spider, stands a dry atmos- 
phere well, and blooms profusely. Heliotropes and bego- 
nias are easily grown and are good bloomers. Callas will 
grow well almost anywhere if they get plenty of water. The 
ivy is well fitted for use in the house. Fuchsias are exqui- 
site flowers for summer use, but do not bloom well in winter. 
For fall use nothing is better than the chrysanthemums. 
After these have blossomed the plants can be put in the 



PORTABLE INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



125 



cellar. Carnations, abutilons, oleanders, and myrtles are all 
adapted to culture in the house, and generally give excellent 
satisfaction. It is always best to confine attention at first to 
such plants as are not too particular. When you can grow 
these well, try other kinds. Do not attempt too much, but do 

your best 

with what 

you start. 

One good 

plant is 

a treasure. 

A dozen 

poor ones 

are worse 

than none 

at all. They lead a 

poor, sickly life that is 

a pleasure to neither 

the cultivator nor the 

beholder. 

Surprising results 
may be attained by 
special care. The ad- 
joining cut shows the 
appearance of a house- 
grown lily of the val- 
LILY OF THE VALLEY, FIVE WEEKS OLD. ley which came fco the 

condition here shown in five weeks. Of course, it had 
skillful and constant care, but it had no advantage of hot- 
house or special accessory. Its chief forcing was on the 
reservoir of a kitchen cook-stove. 

On the use of vines in the house an expert says : "There 
is nothing in the way of home decorations that may be had 
with so little expense, managed with so little trouble, or will 
give results so satisfactory, as the ivy. There is no room so 




126 



HOME DECORATION. 



palatial to which it may not add embellishment, and it will 
give an air of cheerfulness and refinement to the one room 
of the settler's log-cabin. Of course, we refer to the true 
evergreen ivy, Hedera, and not to the tender plants known 
as ' Parlor,' ' German,' ' Colosseum,' and other ivies If 
one has a sprig of ivy and a pot or a box of earth, wonders 
can be accomplished if the owner possesses one other requi- 
site — patience. The growth is slow at first, but it is in- 
creasingly rapid, and each year the plant will reward patient 

care by becoming more beautiful and 
more valuable." 

Boxes for window gardens, with 
casters for ease of movement, may be 
constructed by any person. One of 
the prettiest may be made by covering 
the box with pieces of bark nailed up- 
right on its sides, sawed off at the top 
and bottom edges, and then making 
the supporting stand and overarching 
trellis of saplings. Vine stems may be 
trailed over the rustic work and fast- 
ened there. The effect of growing 
flowers and vines on such a rustic 
stand is very beautiful. 

Some plants show to best advantage 
when separated from others and in positions not favorable 
for the display of ordinary plants. For example : For 
brackets the best plants we have are the drooping varieties 
of fuchsias, the eupatorium and begonias. No one knows 
what grace there is in the fuchsia unless he has seen it grow- 
ing on a bracket placed about as high as his head, the 
branches being allowed to droop over the pot. To secure 
plenty of branches, the centre of the plant should be pinched 
out when it is small. Where one stalk was there will be 
Iwo shoots thrown out. These, in turn, should be pinched 




HYACINTH BULB IN 
WATER. 




PORTABLE INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 127 

back, and at least a dozen thrifty stalks should be induced 
to grow from the base of the plant. No piece of statuary 
can make a more elegant filling for a corner. Eupatorium 
Mexicanum blends beautifully with fuchsias on two-pot 
brackets, and the effect is more than 
doubled if placed in front of a mirror. 
One of the most tasty decorations 
is a bouquet or basket of flowers, or 
even a single beautiful rose, lily, or 
hyacinth. Small vases for these can 
be had in abundance at all prices. J ±J%j£*£r^ 
Miniature gypsy kettles, with flowers 
of delicate form and size, are exceed- 
ingly beautiful on a mantel or bracket. miniaiurl cytsy 
Artificial flowers may be used thus, kettle. 

but they must be small and exquisite, not large or gaudy. 

To "make a bunch of flowers" is no trouble, but to make 
a bouquet or tastefully fill a basket of flowers is a high art. 
Arranging flowers loosely and naturally in vases, saucers, 
and other ornamental receptacles requires 
good taste and some knowledge of the 
harmony of colors. To fill a basket, first 
-=i line it with tin foil, or scatter a little lyco- 
l podium or other green material, to form 
WD^ " IJL" a lining. Over this put a lining of strong 
MMJUlSitiBM^ paper. Then fill the basket with damp 
sawdust, rounding it off at the top and cov- 
ering with damp moss, inserting the stems 
of the flowers in the moss. If the natural 
vase for flowers, stems are not suitable for this work, the 
flowers can be "stemmed," that is, fastened to small pieces 
of wood or broom splints. It is well to make the border 
of drooping green. Fuchsias border very elegantly. 

Few flowers have stems suitable for bouquet work ; so it 
is the custom to " stem " all flowers for this purpose. These 





128 HOME DE CORA TION. 

stiff steams can be made to hold the flowers in any position 
desired. To keep the flowers from crowding each other 
and to supply moisture, wind damp moss 
around the stem at its connection with the 
1\ artificial stem. The central flower, which 
should be the largest, must have a stiff, 
strong, straight stem, which really forms the back- 
bone of the bouquet as well also as the handle. 
Fasten the stems of all the smaller flowers around 
this main, central flower. After the flowers are all 
properly attached and the bouquet is well formed, 
cut off the entire handle to the desired length and 
cover it with tin-foil, or wind it with white ribbon, 
leaving a loop, so that the bouquet may be sus- 
pended by it if desired. 
stemmed Ornamental papers can be obtained at a very 

FLOWER. . . 

small cost which will cover the handle and bot- 
tom of the bouquet and also make a richly ornamental 
border. These hints apply, of course, to hand bouquets, 
but larger bouquets are 
made in the same manner, 
except that they are more 
pyramidal in form. 

If ferns or flowers for ornamental bouquet paper. 

bouquets or other work are laid in water for several hours 
after being cut and before they are used, they will endure 
much longer without flagging than if immediately arranged. 
The more water they absorb after being severed from the 
plant, the better they will stand. 

A new device for the arrangement of flowers consists of a 
piece of cork about a quarter of an inch thick, circular in 
form, and perforated with holes, like the rose of a watering- 
pot. The diameter of the cork is made to correspond to 
the size of the saucer or shallow dish with which it is to be 
•ised. The cork, floating on the top of the water, supports 




DE CORA TIOXS FR OM NA TURE. 129 

the flowers, whose stems are inserted through the holes. 
For the display of small flowers and those having short 
stems this method is well adapted. It may possibly be 
better than damp sand, as the cork may be preserved and 
will always be ready, even when sand cannot be had. 

The Ladies 1 Floral Cabinet lays down the following rules 
on bouquet-making : " Never put more than three varieties 
or colors in the same vase or bouquet, and let those colors 
be such as perfectly harmonize. Arrange the flowers so 
that each one can be seen entire." This is good, but 
exceptions are numerous. 

Autumn leaves, which are a deservedly popular decora- 
tion, require but little preparation. When fully ripe they 
contain very little moisture and the colors are quite perma- 
-nent ; but they contain some moisture, and may curl up if 
brought into a warm room. To prevent this, place them 
between papers, giving a light pressure. In a few days take 
them out and give a light dressing of varnish to brighten 
the colors. For this purpose, clear, boiled linseed oil is 
good, using the least possible amount Some prefer balsam 
fir, cut with alcohol ; others use gum shellac dissolved in 
alcohol ; others dip each leaf in melted wax and press it a 
moment with a warm iron. 

It is stated that the colors of flowers may be preserved by 
dipping them occasionally in a boiled solution of eleven 
grains of salycilic acid in a pint of water and afterward care- 
fully drying them between sheets of blotting paper. 

There are several methods of drying flowers so as to 
preserve their color to some degree. The most common 
way is to spread them in a pan of dry sand and sift sand 
upon them, keeping them, when thus covered, in a warm, 
dry place for several days, until free from moisture ; or they 
may be dried between thin sheets of wadding placed be- 
tween two pieces of glass. The pressing will injure the 
form ; but this is more or less so by any process. 



130 



HOME DECORATION. 





The field for ingenuity and taste here opened is very 
broad and is well worth diligent cultivation. 

Floral or evergreen letterings are often desired. Mark 
out the letters on strawboard, placing them close together, 

as in diagram No. I. If no 
expert in lettering is available, 
determine the height you wish 
the letters to be, and divide that 
into six equal parts, marking 
these on the strawboard. Cross 
these with other lines at the 
same distances apart. The pro- 
portions so given Will answer for most letters, six spaces 

h'-rrh Y\\r fr>nr wirl?- nn-1 will ciio-rr- cf W ^M mW/mmmm 

iiign oy iour wide, ana win suggest « mwm 

the proportions for others, as in dia- WS/ktk 
gram i\o. 2. 'W$M1k 

When thus marked, cut each letter MM 
clearly with shears or knife, and cover | 
them by tying with dark thread or sewing the green and 
flowers to the surfaces. Keep the work even and trim its 
edges when done. Everlasting flowers or bright berries 
should be mixed with the green to relieve the uniformity. 
Moss may be tied upon the letters ; into this flowers with 
paste or glue upon their stems may be stuck, and they will 
£&$&■ M&& $fe »tfSS?' :; -tBBSk remain fixed, showing a 

result as in diagram No. 3. 
Glue will hold some cover- 
ings of letters sufficiently. 
Immortelles, Pampas 
plumes, ferns, oats, with 
many weeds and grasses, are well suited for drying. Vases, 
baskets, and wall-pockets- may be filled with them and 
serve well as decorations. The unnatural coloring frequently 
put upon these grasses by dealers is a monstrosity. Better 
retain the natural conditions when natural objects are used. 






PORTABLE INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



131 



Holiday decorations of ivy, laurel, holly, ferns, mosses, 
and the whole range of evergreens are beautiful if well done. 
Picture frames, window curtains, doorways, mantel-pieces — 
indeed, any and every part of a room — may 
be made cheery and elegant by this means. 
It consumes time, but it cultivates taste. 

A few little floral fancies are worthy of 
passing mention in closing this subject 

I. To grow a pretty vine from the sweet 
potato : Put a tuber in pure sand, or sandy 









$v 



fWWaK 



: 



: .=^.-Sflg« 







PAMPAS PLUME. 



loam, in a hanging-basket, and water occa- 
sionally. It will throw out tendrils and %SHfllP^ 
beautiful leaves, and climb freely over the 
arms of the basket and upward toward the 
top of the window. 

2. Procure a fine, healthy acorn and cro- 
chet around it a little network case after re- 
moving the cup. Then hang it, point down- 
ward, in a deep glass, having so much water 
in it that the point of the acorn just reaches it. Keep it in a 

dark closet until 
it has sprouted ; 
then put it in the 
light. A chest- 
nut thus kept in 
water will sprout 
in the same way, 
and either will be 
beautiful. 

3. Cut off even- 
ly the top of a 
carrot and place 
it on the top of a 
pot full of sand, 
so that the leaves look as if they sprang from it. Moisten 




.idiV'iSl!!!i"'l„;i;™i :;l ^;:;::S^ 

BASKET OF FERNS AND GRASSES. 



132 



HOME DECORATION. 



it well and keep it in the dark until it has begun to sprout % 
keep it damp, and move it into the light when the leaves 
appear. If the cultivation is successful, an ornament pretty 
enough for any room will be the result. 

4. Take a sound turnip and clean the outside, taking care 
not to injure the part from whence the leaves spring. Cut 

a piece off the bottom 
and scoop out the 
inside. Fasten string 
or wire to it, so that 
it can be hung up. 
Fill the cavity, and 
keep it filled, with 
water. In a short 
time the leaves will 
sprout and curl up 
toward the ball of the 
turnip, forming a 
beautiful miniature 
hanging-basket. 

5. Put the stem of 

a freshly cut tuberose 

or other white flower 

into diluted scarlet 

jink for a short time. 

transparency of dried flowers. The liquid will be 

drawn up into the veins, coloring them in a very elegant 
manner. It also shows whether a plant is net-veined or 
parallel-veined. 

6. A transparency of dried flowers may be made as fol- 
lows : Take two panes of glass of equal size — one of them 
ground, the other clear. By the use of gum tragicanth 
attach to the under side of the ground glass about half an 
inch of the edge of a dark ribbon, which should be over an 
inch wide. Allow this to dry. On the upper side of this 




PORTABLE INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



133 



glass arrange the grasses, attaching them to it by touches 
of the gum. On the glass, just around its edges, fix a 
narrow strip of cardboard ; on this lay the clear glass, 
pressing the grasses flat. Bring up the unattached edge of 
the ribbon and fix it firmly by the mucilage over the upper 
glass, so imprisoning the grasses in the inclosure. 

One of the most beautiful decorations which may be main- 
tained within the home is found in the aquarium. The theory 
of the aquarium is that it shall so combine animal and vegeta- 
ble life in such exact proportions that the water shall be kept 
entirely pure, never needing change. In other words, the 
vegetable life shall take up the surplus carbon yielded by 
the animal life, and the animal life shall take up the surplus 
oxygen yielded by the vegetable life, and so things will re- 
main in statu quo. The theory is good, but it cannot be 
applied under circumstances sufficiently favorable to guar- 
antee success. 

In the great aquariums of museums it is found necessary 
to continually force fresh air through the water, that it may 
be maintained in a sufficiently oxygenized state ; and even 
then, such is the capacity of water for absorbing gases and 
odors from the atmosphere, that it must itself be renewed 
frequently. But the aquarium pays. Aside from the finish 
of the vessel itself, which 
is usually artistic, the plant 
life in water and the ac- 
tivity of the animal life, are 
unceasingly attractive. A 
common glass jar is bet- 
ter than nothing as an aqua- 
rium, though glass globes box aquarium. 
well adapted for small fish may be had at a low price. 
A better form of aquarium is shown in the accompanying 
cut. Such boxes may be had of- all sizes and with great 
variety of finish. 




134 ROME DECORATION. 

But a box is not essential as a beginning for an aquarium 
The fact is, that any one having a little ingenuity, and the 
assistance of a handy tinsmith, can fit up a handsome and 
attractive affair. A frame-work may be made of tin to hold 
the glass, and to this frame a zinc bottom should be soldered. 
A bottom of wood underneath all should be finished nicely 
with a deep molding. After the glass has been set and 
well cemented in, the frame may be painted black, or green, 
or gilded, as taste may decide. The tank should be filled 
with fresh water every day until it is thoroughly cleansed, 
before fitting it for occupancy. Then the glass must be 
polished, the bottom covered with clean pebbles, stones, 
and small shells. A rockery, of rich brown and pure white 
stones should be constructed for the centre, surmounted by 
a large shell or two filled with earth, and Lycopodium 
growing therein. Cover this earth with pebbles and press 
them down firmly about the plant. After all this is ar- 
ranged, put the water in with a dipper, pouring against the 
glass to avoid a disarrangement of the furniture. 

Every morning dip out two or three dippers of water, 
wipe the glass, and fill with fresh water. Use care not to 
disturb the water more than is necessary. There is no 
reason why gold fish will not do well in an aquarium if 
managed in this way. During very warm weather a lump 
of ice occasionally is appreciated by the little golden 
beauties, for they can stand the cold much better than the 
heat. The fact is, that fish, supplied with clear water and a 
cool temperature, have scarcely any other want. The 
omission of all attention to feeding, except in the spring 
months, is as great a kindness as can be shown them. In 
moderate latitudes, from the last of February to the first of 
July, the least crumb of cracker or fish -wafer suffices, and 
during the rest of the year experienced fish-fanciers say very 
little need be given ; that little, may be a few bread-crumbs 
or a pinch of plain cake. 



PORTABLE INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



135 




** ! » 



j 36 HOME DECORATION. 

While arranging aquariums attention may be paid to 
parlor rockeries, a less common but no less beautiful home 
decoration. A small parlor rockery can be made most 
satisfactorily by combining the aquarium and rockery, some- 
what as is shown in the accompanying engraving. In a 



PARLOR ROCKERY. 

living-room or parlor a good deal of sprinkling of the rocks 
must be done, or plants placed in the crevices will dry up. 
This necessitates a basin to catch and retain the drippings. 
It may be of sufficient depth for gold and other fish. It 
can be made of any form desired, and with any ornamenta- 
tion that taste may suggest. 

Or it may be shallow, and be bedded with mosses, ferns, 
and marsh plants, so making a bog-garden. A small faucet 
should be inserted at an inconspicuous point, by which to 
draw off any excess of moisture. Excursions to the 
marshes will furnish an abundance of soil and plants for the 
basin, while a liberal assortment of plants will suit the con- 
ditions of the higher portions. Central to the rockery, a 
pot of roses, lilies, or other plants may be placed, its upper 
rim being concealed by the surrounding rocks. Variety 
and beauty can seldom be secured in one object so freely 
as is a well-kept parlor rockery. 

Ferneries are a well-known parlor decoration. A great 
variety of styles and sizes of bases and vases can be had. 



PORTABLE INTERNAL DECORA T10NS. 137 




COMBINED AQUARIUM AND FLOWER-STAND. 



138 



HOME DECORATION. 



They are made of pottery, of rustic work, of tiled work, of 
iron, and of cabinet ware, and home ingenuity can meet all 
the requirements, even to the inclosing case of glass. The 
fernery shown in the cut we give is in imitation of oak, in 
rustic style, with rustic base. These bases are of different 
sizes, from eight to twelve inches in diameter, the whole 

height, with glass, being from 
twelve to eighteen inches. Al- 
though these are small, still 
they serve a good purpose and 
are easily handled and managed. 
A more elaborate style of 
fernery may be made with a 
table-like base on four legs and 
casters. The case proper should 
be say sixteen inches in width 
by two and a half feet in length, 
and twenty-six inches high 
above the legs. This can be 
made by any joiner, and can be 

varied to correspond to any style of furniture. The top 
should be made to open for access to the interior, and also 
for ventilation. Within the wooden table-frame is fitted a 
zinc pan about three inches deep, which contains the soil ; 
this pan has an opening for drainage, and a shallow vessel 
should be placed in a concealed position underneath to 
receive any surplus water. 

Ferneries require a large amount of moisture. The vase, 
or case covering, retains this and the warmth, so making 
perennial spring time for the plants within. All the swamp 
plants are suitable for fernery culture, but ferns do not like 
stagnant water. They flourish in low, moist places — but it 
is where the water is renewed by direct flow, or by subsoil 
drainage, which fact must not be overlooked in the fernery. 

Besides ferns, many kinds of mosses and selaginellas 




RUSTIC FERNERY. 



PORTABLE INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



139 



succeed well in 
cases ; also some 
species of grasses, 
caladiums, be- 
gonias of the 
tuberous and the 
rex varieties, the 
sundews or dro- 
seras, some of the 
aroids, ficus re- 
pens, and others. 
An interesting 
variety of plants 
may, therefore, be 
secured, but ferns 
must be the prin- 
cipal feature. 

The fern-case, 
after it is planted, 
should be placed 
where it can re- 
ceive a good light 
without being too 
much exposed to 
direct sunshine. 
Only sufficient 
water should be 
given to keep the 
soil moist and not 
saturated. Some 
ventilation is re- 
quired, but it need ^ 
be slight, and yet 
it should be care- 
fully attended to 




FERN-CASE JARDINIERE. 



J40 HOME DECORATION. 

each day, opening the doors of the case just enough to 
clear the glass of moisture. A little experience will enable 
one to care properly for a case. 

Ferneries are frequently adorned with ornaments carved 
in cork. A magnificent work of this kind was lately con- 
structed in London on an order from the King of Siam. 
The entire fernery consisted of five frames, each about ten 
feet in height and width, most artistically constructed, being 
covered with cork colored to resemble a true rockery. 
There is a pool at the base for water lilies and other 
aquatics, with numerous recesses, in which ferns will be 
placed. Several jets of water are arranged so that the 
whole surface will be constantly moist with water dripping 
from the stalactitic projections at the upper part. Spaces at 
the back are filled with mirrors, and as these artificial " rock- 
eries " will occupy an alcove and be disposed in one line, the 
effect will be magnificent, and probably, in its kind, unrivalled. 

A careful observer of nature will soon discover how 
nature fixes herself in her prettiest forms. Observe where 
ferns grow and how they are surrounded. The grasses, the 
mosses, the pebbles — all the accompaniments of fern-growth 
in nature — may be transferred by art into the ferneiy. But 
art will surpass nature by eliminating all that is unsightly 
and retaining only the beautiful. 

The best cement to prevent leakage in aquariums, fern- 
eries, etc., is made as follows : Take equal parts of red lead, 
white lead, and litharge; dry, mix thoroughly, pulverizing all 
lumps. Then make into a putty by adding boiled linseed 
oil. Add a little at a time, and only a drop or two when 
nearly done, or you will get it too soft. As soon as the 
cement has been applied, fill the aquarium with water. 

It is possible to make very happy combinations from the 
natural world in internal home decoration. The illustra- 
tions already given have shown this. They combine flowers, 
vines, ferns, mosses, fishes, birds, rustic work, rocks, and other 



PORTABLE INTERVAL DECORATIONS. 



Ill 



natural features of beauty. In the cut which follows a style 
of aquarium is shown which contains many points of 
beauty. The aquarium itself shows various forms of animal 
and vegetable life. The trellis allows a fine opportunity in 
the selection and training of plants, while the bird-cage at 




VINE-COVERED AQUARIUM. 

the summit provides additional life, with song added to 
beauty and fragrance. 

Taste, patience, and a little expense are all that are needed 
to produce a beautiful display on this general plan. Taste and 
skill find splendid opportunity in the case of diminutive 
plants and fishes. 



142 



HOME DECORATION. 



Few adornments for the interior of home afford so much 
opportunity for varied, graceful, and really elegant display 
as do hanging-baskets. Drapery is always beautiful, because 
so perfectly natural ; but when flowers are pendant, mingled 
with delicate vines and mosses, then nature is seen in her 
most lovely forms. Such views of nature are furnished in 
hanging-baskets. The materials of which they are composed, 
the forms in which they are wrought, and the flowers 
with which they may be filled, are without limit. Terra- 
cotta ware, wire, and rustic work are chiefly employed, but 
natural objects, such as shells, gourds, 
etc., form the basis of many attractive 
displays of this character. A neat 
hanging-basket is exceeding graceful 
also, and it is in place everywhere, a 
welcome " thing of beauty." 

Plants in vases and hanging-baskets 
are peculiarly situated in respect to 
the moisture in the soil. This is sub- 
ject to rapid evaporation. Not only is 
there ths ordinary drainage, such as 
plants in pots have and which is abso- 
lutely necessary, since stagnant water at 
the roots would be fatal, but these plant 
receptacles are usually situated where they are fully exposed 
to the sun and to drying winds. The great demand of 
basket and vase plants is water, and attention to this supply 
is almost the only care necessary. 

In a room it is almost impossible to moisten plants fully 
and properly. It is best, therefore, that baskets be taken to 
some outer room every day or two for a good soaking, 
where they may remain until dripping ceases. Where 
a wire basket is used, or an opening is provided for drainage, 
dripping continues for some time. An arrangement is 
shown in the next engraving for catching this drip. It is 




TERFACOTTA HANG. 
ING-BASKET. 



PORTABLE INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



143 




HANGING-BASKET WITH 
SUB-BASKET FOR DRIP. 



merely a second basket or earthen vessel suspended unde* 
the main one, and planted so as to 
be both useful and ornamental. 

As the number of plants in bask- 
ets and vases is usually large for 
the quantity of soil they contain, 
it should be rich. What is wanted 
is a rapid, luxuriant growth, with- 
out much regard to the form of in- 
dividual plants. A good soil for 
the purpose may be made of about 
one part of old manure, two parts 
of rotten sods, and one part of sand. 
If leaf-mold can be had, an amount 
of if; can be added equal to the sand or manure, if not, the 

mixture without it will 
be quite satisfactory. 
When the plants have 
been placed in their 
new quarters and wa- 
tered, it is necessary 
to keep them shaded 
for a short time, and 
if possible they should 
have the advantage of 
a greenhouse or cold- 
frame until they make 
new roots and com- 
mence to grow freely. 
Concerning plants 
suitable for hanging- 
baskets, James Vick, 
of Rochester, New 

ELEGANT HANGING-BASKET. _, , it _ .. 

York, an authority on 
the subject, makes the following valuable suggestions : 




144 HOME DECORATION 

Erect Plants. — Amaranthus salicifolius, Amaranthus Sun 
rise, Caladium, Canna, Coleus, Cyperus alternifolius, Dra- 
caena, Fuchsia. 

Trailing Plants. — German Ivy, Kenilworth Ivy, Ivy-leaved 
Geianium, annual varieties of Lobelia, Nolana, Othonna 
crassifolia, Petunia, Tradescantia, Saxifraga sarmentosa, 
Vinca major variegata, Vinca Harrisonii. 

Twining Plants. — Ipomcea Quamoclit, Madeira Vine, 
Maurandya, Pilogyne suavis, Thunbergia, Tropaeolum maius, 
Tropaeolum Lobbianum. 

Handsome Foliage Plants.— Abutilon Mesopotamicum 
variegatum, Acalypha Macafeeana, Achyranthes, Alternan- 
thera, Anthericum vittatum variegatum, Ornamental-leaved 
Begonia, Centaurea gymnocarpa, Centaurea Candida, Cin- 
eraria maritima, Coleus, Euonymus Japonicus aureus, 
Euonymus argenteus, Euonymus radicans variegata, Far- 
fugium grande, Variegated-leaved Geranium, Fragrant 
Geranium, Glaucium corniculatum. 

Plowering Plants. — Ageratum Mexicanum and var., Alys- 
sum Colossus, Double White Alyssum, Alyssum variega- 
tum, Alyssum The Gem, Begonia, Cuphea, Fenzlia, Fuchsia, 
Geranium, Heliotrope, Lantana, Mahernia odorata, Mahernia 
Hector, Mimulus, Nierembergia, Oxalis floribunda alba, 
Oxalis floribunda rosea, Petunia, Rivinia, Schizanthus. 

A good home-made hanging-basket may be constructed 
thus : Take coarse, heavy wire for foundation and handle 
and interlace it with old hoop wire, made pliable by heating. 
Then take young portulacca plants with a lump of earth 
attached to each ; put the plants outward through the open 
spaces of the basket until it is full. The plants take kindly 
to their unnatural position and soon become a mass of 
beautiful green and brilliant flowers. In each basket place 
an empty tin box, inserted in a cavity in the top portion of 
the earth. Fill this with water daily, and in it place fresh 
flowers, as fancy dictates. The effect is delightful. 



PORTABLE INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



145 



Another is shown in the next cut. It is made of a gourd, 
the top rim being cut into scollops and the bottom end cut 
off to allow drainage. It should be filled with a light, rich 
soil, and if planted with Dichorsandra for its centre and 
Othouna for the droop, its effect will be most beautiful. 

Hanging vases of silvered 
double glass can be had. A 
false bottom is added to pro- 
mote drainage, and by means 
of a tube the gathered water 
can be drawn off. The effect 
of foliage is greatly improved 
by the reflecting surfaces of 
such a vase. 

Birds are charming pets in a 
home. Their sweet songs add 
exquisite pleasure to other 
natural beauties. A talking 
parrot is hardly to be reckoned 
as a gem ; but a singing canary 
is a prize. The trouble of keep- 
ing them is sometimes complained of, but bird-fanciers 
sum up the whole matter thus : 

Keep the cage clean. 

Place the cage so that no draft of air can strike the bird, 
and not too near windows in cold weather. 

Give nothing to healthy birds but seed, water, cuttle-fish 
bone, and gravel on the floor of cage. An occasional lump 
of pure white sugar may be added. 

Occasionally a little water for bathing. 

The room should not be overheated. 

When moulting (shedding feathers) keep warm and avoid 
drafts of air. 

Give plenty of rape seed. 

A little hard-boiled egg grated fine is excellent. 




GOURD HANGING-BASKET. 



146 HOME DECORATION. 

LADIES' HANDIWORK. 

Beyond all the professional decorator can do, and all that 
can be done with natural objects, there is a realm of decora- 
tive possibility where the wives and daughters of our homes 
reign supreme. Their skillful fingers and exquisite taste 
work wonders of ornamentation. The internal fittings and 
furnishings of a house are but the framework on which 
those who love and brighten home display their choice 
embellishments. 

To specify all the beautiful things which tasty ladies 
can make with unpromising material is not possible ; much 
less can these attractions be described. But the subject 
may be illustrated, and hints concerning it may be given. 

Mantel decorations are very popular and elegant. They 
are attached to a board placed on the mantel slab. This is 
covered with the chosen material, which also depends from 
the edge — plain, plaited, scalloped, or draped. An elegant 
decoration of this kind, recently exhibited in the Decorative 
Art Rooms, of New York, was made of deep, wine-colored 
plush cut in a shallow scallop, the centre being about 
eighteen inches deep, and caught up carelessly with a hand- 
some cord and pompon tassels one-quarter yard from each 
end, so that a very graceful, draped effect was given. Its 
centre was decorated with a branch design of wild roses, so 
arranged that its uppermost part will lay over on the man- 
tel. The blossoms — made of rose-colored velvet — were so 
folded as to be a perfect representation of real rose petals ; 
stamens and pistils were worked with gold thread ; leaves 
and branches in arrasene. The bottom was finished with 
alternate tassels of pink and light and dark shades of olive. 

Another design was made of olive macrame twine cro- 
cheted in an open pattern and having two-inch wide cardinal 
satin ribbon interlaced in the openings. This twine comes 
in a variety of colors, and to make a lambrequin eighteen 
inches deep and fringe would require five bunches. 



PORTABLE INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



147 



There are imported tapestry designs for valances and 
chair-backs which are sought after by those who wish to 
furnish in antique style. They come in quaint designs, 
usually rural scenes, worked in quarter single stitches, 
which resemble a woven 
texture in their fine- 
ness, and are to be filled 
in with whatever solid 
color may seem adapt- 
ed. Illustrations of this 
art will be found among 
the various cuts of *this 
volume. 

An ordinary kitchen 
table can be transformed 
into quite an elegant 
piece of furnitnre for 
the library. The top 
and legs are smoothly 
covered with green 
cloth ; the seam neatly 
sewed, and on the in- 
side, that it may not 
show. It is then tacked 
at the top to hold it in 
place. Cloth is then 
drawn smoothly over 
the top and tacked all round the sides. The piece extending 
round the sides of the table must also be covered. An under 
shelf made of pine wood covered with cloth is then fitted 
securely to the legs about eight inches below the top. A 
heavy cord fringe of green worsted must be fastened round 
the edge of the top, also round the shelf, with brass-headed 
nails about an inch and a half apart. A caster fitted into 
each leg will finish this very handsome table. 




MINIATURE TABLE FOR FRUIT. 



148 



HOME DECORATION. 



A miniature table, to be used as an ornamental fruit-stand, 
is shown in the preceding cut. It is made of bamboo, rustic 
branches, or turned legs, painted or gilded, as taste suggests. 
These are attached at their tops to a wide hoop, into which 
a deep dish fits firmly. The legs are then tied securely at 
their point of crossing with a cord and tassel. The outer 
edge of the hoop is then ornamented with drapery of bright 
colored cloth or satin with bead work, ornamented with 
tassels. A painted plaque or handsome dish may be 
inserted in the table, and so serve as a card-receiver. 

A handsome 
table-cover 
may be made 
of sateen with 
a plush bor- 
dering. The 
centre should 
be of olive 
green, the 
border of a 
darker shade. 
On the four 
sides, just 
above the 
plush, the 
names of the 
four seasons 
maybe work- 
ed in fancy 
letters with 
crewels or 

ORNAMENTAL COVER FOR TABLE. silks eadl 

word decorated with flowers or leaves appropriate to the 
season. Fancy stitches worked in different colored silks 
may ornament the seam where the plush and sateen join. 




PORTABLE INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



149 



Great variety may be secured in standing work-baskets. 
Stands of great variety in wicker-work are sold. Get one 
with two shelves, in each of which cut a hole large enough 
to receive an ordinary straw hat, crown downward. The 
braid around the edges of the shelves must be gilt, also the 
rings. The brim of the upper hat must have a full facing 
of blue satin. A bag of the same is fitted into the crown 
and drawn together with a satin ribbon at its top. A bunch 
of artificial roses and leaves is fastened on one side of the 
brim. The under hat has a full facing of satin, cut large 
enough to serve as a lining for the crown. A large, gilt 
ring is fastened to the edge of the upper shelf between each 
pair of supports, and a broad band of satin ribbon, which 
may be hand-painted, is run through each ring, then crossed 
to the lower shelf, where it is fastened to the leg with a 
double bow and ends. The outside of the hats may be gilded 
if preferred. 

The adjoining cut 
shows another form of 
stand. This stand may 
be bought in rattan, or 
made of rustic boughs 
suitably curved. Two 
hoops are used in this 
stand, into which paint- 
ed or ornamental dishes 
fit securely, their edges 
being hung with crewel 
or with bead-work. To 
make the bead border- 
ing, take a narrow strip 
of oil-cloth and fit it 
tightly around the edges 
of the hoops and plates. visiting-card stand. 

Measure off equal distances and sew on black jet buttons. 




150 



HOME DECORATION. 



From these, string bronze beads for the first or upper row.. 
Make the second row of gold beads and the third of white. 
Attach these to the jet buttons. Make a final row of 
variously colored beads, twisted together, and fastened to 

the jet buttons. After these 
are all in place and grace- 
fully festooned, cut away 
any of the oil-cloth which 
shows below the ornaments. 
Fancy baskets are capable 
of very beautiful adornment. 
Such baskets can be had 
in the stores in many de- 
cidedly attractive forms. 
The work upon those 
shown in the illustrations 
is such as a practiced eye 
can readily trace. The 
blending of colors will af- 
ford fine opportunity for a 
display of taste. Even the 
.scrap-basket may be so em- 
bellished that the container 
of refuse becomes a minis- 
ter of pleasure. The willow-ware furnished for this purpose 
is varied so greatly and so elegantly that a good base for 
operations is easily secured. The decorations can be 
attached readily also, which is a point of value. The result 
is so light in weight, and withal so beautiful and useful, that 
scrap-basket decoration becomes specially inviting. 

A novelty in scrap-baskets may be made as follows : 
Select a medium-sized Japanese umbrella with, a plain 
ground and gilt figures. Glue the knob or point securely 
into a square or circular block of wood smoothly finished. 
This block must be heavy enough to serve as a stand for 




LADY'S WORK-BASKET. 



PORTABLE INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



151 



the umbrella and hold it steadily in its upright position. 

The block is to be painted the color of the umbrella and 

decorated with gilt 

figures. To prevent 

the umbrella from fall- 
ing open, the points of 

the ribs must be inter- 
laced with satin ribbon. 

Several shades of the 

narrowest ribbons 

may be turned in and 

out of the ribs like 

basket-work, or a wide 

ribbon may be used. 

The umbrella should be 

not quite half open. A 

piece of gilt paper must 

be cut to fit the inside 

of the umbrella and 

prevent papers and scraps from falling through to the point, 

from whence it 
would be difficult 
to remove them. 
If narrow ribbons 
are used for the 
lacings, tie a 
bunch of them 
round the handle 
with long loops 
and ends, and 
their many colors 
make a gay trim- 
ming. With the 
wider ribbon use 

SQUARE SCRAP-BASKET. a * 




CIRCULAR SCRAP-BASKET. 




152 



HOME DECORATION. 




A Japanese umbrella may be utilized as a fire-screen by 
adorning it with peacock's feathers. Cut off the stems of 
the feathers to within a few inches of the eyes ; then stitch 

the eyes on in rows around 
the umbrella, beginning at 
the outer edge, and have 
each row to overlap the 
other till the centre is 
reached ; then finish the 
centre off with a tuft of 
small feathers. The um- 
brella should never be 
I closed, as the shutting 
would be disastrous to the 
feathers. When completed, 
the handle of the umbrella 
may be set into an upright 

CORNER SCRAP-BASKET. shaft) whIc h is supported 

in a base of heavy wood. The umbrella-handle should not 
exceed six inches in length, 
the support about two feet 
high. The base and support 
should be brightly colored. 
A beautifully embroidered 
fire-screen is shown in the 
adjoining cut. Frames for 
these can be purchased in 
many styles ; the taste and 
skill of home fill out the 
centre. The materials for 
this centre are varied and 
elegant, and if well handled, 
the result must be delightful. 
The screens are valuable to embroidered fire-screen. 

shade the glow of a fire or to screen from observation. 




PORTABLE INTERNAL DECORATIONS. J 53 

An ornamental wall-pocket may be made of cardboard 
covered with gray linen, embroidered with brown wool. Cut 
one piece of cardboard to serve for the back and bottom 
and five pieces for the front. Bind each of these with a 
strip of gray linen and cover with the same material. Work 
in brown wool the design selected, stitching through the 
cardboard. Line the back with linen to conceal the stitches 




ORNAMENTAL WALL-POCKET. 

and sew the several pieces together. Take five pieces of 
cane four and a half inches long for the edges of the back ; 
also five more of the same length, five four inches long, and 
six five inches long;, aU for the front portion. A half inch 
from the ends of the canes cut grooves, into which the 
crossing canes may be fitted. Tie them strongly— first 
with thread, then with brown ribbon — so completing the 



154 



HOME DECORATION. 



cane frame. Into this the cardboard case is fitted and 
secured by stitches. For a cover, cut a cardboard double 
the shape of the opening in the top of the pocket ; cut this 
half through across its centre, covering the uncut side with 
linen, on which a full pattern is worked, as shown in the 





HAND-BAGS FOR LADIES. 

illustration. By stitching along this central cut, fasten this 
piece to the frame, so that one part of it becomes a back 
and the other a cover, to which add a loop and ornamental 
bows. 

Ladies' hand-bags may be made in styles and of materials 




STATIONERY OR NEEDLE BOOK. 

innumerable. The cuts suggest enough ; taste can supply 
the rest. The cut immediately above shows a pretty design 
for a stationery or needle book — made of covered cardboard 



PORTABLE INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



155 



and neatly embroidered. This book will prove both elegant 
and useful to its owner. 

The wall-cushion illus- 
trated is formed upon bas- 
ket-work. The upright 
part is for breastpins, etc., 
the other for common pins, 
and a neat jewelry-case may 
be formed inside. 

Pincushions have ever 
been a delightsome field 
for artistic effort. In shape, 
material, filling, etc., they 
vary indefinitely. 

Crewel work, bead work, 
patch work, ribbon work, 
lace work, and all other 
kinds of work, are brought 
to bear on pincushions, and 
many are the conquests 
which have been made in 
this line. Every home has 
something in the way of 
bureau -covers, toilet sets, 
tidies, sofa-cushions, pillow- 
shams, pen-wipers, shaving 
cases, whisp-holders, etc., 
etc. In many instances these are but rude attempts, and 
yet they are not to be despised. Rude attempts always 
precede success, and sometimes inaugurate it. Welcome, 
then, every honest attempt at art. 

A peep into the best bed-room of a tasty prairie home 
will be useful. The walls were tinted blue and the paint 
was white. The carpet was of dyed rags, blue and faint 
buff the prevailing colors. It covered the centre only, a 




ORNAMENTAL WALL-CUSHION. 



156 



HOME DECORATION. 



surrounding strip of bare floor being stained. The bedstead 
was in cottage style and of a delicate blue. A fancy stool 
answered also as a coal and wood box. It was a box with 
a hinged top, which was wadded to form a cushion, the 
whole covered with suitable cretonne. A sewing-table was 
made of two circular pieces of wood nailed at the ends of a 

short, stout pole. 



On the bottom 
four casters were 
fixed. It was then 
covered with 
light-blue cam- 
bric and tied in 
the centre of the 
pole, so as to form 
the shape of an 
hour-glass. Upon 
this was a cover 
of plain or dotted 
Swiss, finished 
with a plaiting of 
narrow blue rib- 
bon around the 
top and with small 
bows. A most 
ornamental pincushions. comfortable chair 

was made of a flour barrel. Take a sound barrel and saw 
off about four inches ; then attach casters to the lower end. 
At the height you wish the seat, saw through five or six 
staves, as may be necessary to compass the width desired ; 
six or eight inches higher up saw through about four staves 
on each side, and you have the arms, and the remaining 
long staves afford the back. At a point a little below the 
first sawed place, perforate the barrel around its circum- 
ference with auger-holes ; then with stout twine, interlaced 




PORTABLE INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



157 



like a bed-cord, but more closely, weave your seat from side 
to side, in alternate holes. In trimming use heavy un- 
bleached domestic or ordinary ticking and over this a 
covering of cretonne, to harmonize with the carpet. A 
cushion may be used and the space left for the arms, and 
the back should be padded. 

The dressing-table was made of a dry-goods box set on 
end, being about two and a half feet high. This was 




BEAUTIFUL TOILET3.-MAY BE MADE FROM PACKING-BOXES. 

overed with cambric, the same shade as that on the 
sewing-table. Over this was a dotted Swiss cover and 
around the upper edges a plaiting of narrow blue ribbon. 
The mirror was suspended from a nail above the table. To 
it was fastened three yards of the Swiss, finished at the ends 
with lace about an eighth of an inch wide and caught in the 
centre with a piece of blue ribbon tied in a full bow, 
which also held it fast to the nail. The ends hung from 
each side of the nail down to the front corners of the table, 



158 



HOME DECORATION. 



to which they were attached with ribbon bows and stretched 
back to the wall. Upon the table was a pretty toilet set in 
light blue glass, a set of toilet mats worked upon pale blue 
Java canvas, and a pincushion to match. The windows 
were ornamented with simple Swiss curtains caught back 
with blue bows. 

A few special features of upholstery, which any lady of 
taste can apply in her own home, may yet be touched. The 
opposite cut of an upholstered bedstead is suggestive. A 
common bedstead, or one showing hard usage, may be 
covered on this plan so as to become an object of beauty. 
_^ A plain 

cane-seated 
sofa, or an 
antiquated 
wooden 
settee, may 
be similarly 
d e c o rated, 
and be far 
more com- 

SHEARATON SOFA— IN POLISHED WOOD AND LEATHER fortableand 
CUSHIONS. i . r 

elegant lor 
the work. To illustrate this method of procedure, the 
Shearaton sofa is shown above. Its make is more elaborate, 
but its covering is on the same general plan as is suggested 
for the plainer furniture. 

In doing any of this upholstered and cushioned work, the 
best way is to make and fit all the parts with cushions made 
of ticking or other substantial material. When the fit is 
assured, cover with cretonne, leather, or other goods, and 
finish as desired. On the top an ornamental tuft or suitable 
button should show, the cord being drawn tightly and tied 
on the under side. The cushions should be firmly attached 
to the settee. 




PORTABLE INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



159 




UPHOLSTERED AND CANOPIED BEDSTEAD. 



100 



HOME DECORA TION. 



As a masterpiece of upholstery, intended more to suggest 
than to be copied, a sofa by Henri Fourdinois, of Paris, in 




the style of Louis XVI, is inserted. It is in all respects a 
study worthy of profound attention. Its carvings may be 
too elaborate, but its elegant drapery may readily be copied. 



PORTABLE INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



161 



More as a curiosity than as a pattern worthy of imitation, 
an old style canopied and curtained bedstead is shown 
below. Excluded thus from fresh air, the only wonder is 
that royal and wealthy personages managed to live at all. 
Uncovered bedsteads in well-ventilated rooms are immensely 
more conducive to health and longevity. 




CANOPIED AND CURTAINED BEDSTEAD.— STYLE OF LOUIS XIV. 

Embroidery and painting are very popular and elegant 
employments for ladies. Both these arts may rise very 
high. The famous Bayeux tapestry contains 1,512 figures, 
of which sixty-five are dogs, 202 horses, 505 other quadru- 
peds, birds, or sphinxes ; 623 are men, twenty-seven build- 
ings, forty-one boats, and forty-nine trees. It is divided 
into fifty-eight parts, each representing a scene in the career 
of William the Conqueror, and each having an inscription 
in Latin. This tapestry is of linen, two hundred feet long 



162 



HOME DECORATION. 




by twenty inches wide. Worsteds in seven colors are used 
in it. It is preserved in the town hall of Bayeux, France, 
and is regarded as the work of Queen Matilda, in'the twelfth 
century. 

From this pinnacle of art there are gradations, almost 
imperceptible, downward to the simplest work of school- 
girls and little children. Knitting and crochet work also 
are varied beyond the power of adequate 
description, and so are many other forms 
of useful and ornamental needlework. 

Decorative painting has a scope equally 
broad. In home work it employs all 
grades and hues of coloring material and 
exercises itself upon woods, china, glass, 
shells, silks, satins, velvets, and almost 
every other attainable fabric. A thou- 
sand or more dollars is not a sum un- 
usual for a hand-painted porcelain vase 

of no great size. Fifty dollars is a 
common price for a single high- 
grade hand-painted plate, and as 
much for an ornamental wall 
plaque. But these are the extra- 
vagances of decoration. A few 
1^1 such articles tone up the taste of a 
community, but they cannot be 
generally indulged in. Some gems 
of art are, however, within the 
reach of all. One who has not 
looked into the facts of this sub- 
ject will be amazed at the variety 
and elegance of small wares which 
are strictly artistic. In wood, 
china, metal, pottery, and woven fabrics they are found in 
charming forms, and at low prices. 



PAINTED VASE. 




PAINTED VA^E. 



PORTABLE INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



1G3 




Among the less expensive and yet very beautiful ma- 
terials which invite home effort in the art of coloring 
are certain forms of pottery, prepared expressly for this 
purpose. The Albertine 
ware, for instance, pro- 
duced at the ancient 
pottery at North Cam- 
bridge, Mass., is made 
of a very fine clay, which, 
when burnt, is of a rich 
dark red or genuine 
terra-cotta color. Even 
without painting these 
goods are much used as 
cabinet ornaments. 

TUpv a re cnpriallv PLAQUE WITH OPEN CENTRE FOR PIC- 

iney are specially ture, mirror, etc. 

adapted to oil colors, 

which need no "firing," as do the mineral colors. This 

process avoids much of expense and much of uncertainty as 

to results of firing, 
which often sur- 
prise the amateur. 
Careful atten- 
tion has been paid 
in fashioning this 
ware that beautiful 
and artistic styles 
shall be secured 
in every piece. 
Forms have been 
evoked from the 
ruins of the past. 
Cups, vases, pitch- 
ers, and other ves- 
plaque with flowers in bold relief. se j s some of 




164 



HOME DECORATION. 




VASE.— FLOWERS IN 
RELIEF. 



them dug up at ancient Troy by Dr. Schliemann — have been 
reproduced with exact conformity in shape and size. High 
relief is a characteristic of this ware. Flowers, leaves, stems, 
and other forms stand boldly out and 
afford a most inviting field for the artistic 
hand. The accompanying illustrations 
show the general appearance of these 
goods, which vary in sizes from eight to 
eighteen inches in diameter, or in height. 
On this matter of painting and orna- 
mentation a word of warning may be 
raised. Things are ornamented which 
are better plain. Every article of mer- 
chandise has its ornament stamped or 
attached in some way. Clothing, bed- 
linen, table-linen, tinware, woodenware, silverware — all 
sorts of ware — are covered with monograms, coats-of-arms, 
meaningless emblems, and intri- 
cate convolutions, the fundamen- 
tal idea of which neither owner 
nor maker can tell. Better leave 
some articles for unadorned 
utility. 

And some proper subjects for 
decoration are improperly deco- 
rated. Imagine the " Author 
Dinner Plates !" — An excellent 
portrait of the honored Long- 
fellow is smothered in gravy; 
potatoes are piled upon the beard 
of Bryant, while fish-bones 
mingle with the curls of Tenny- vase.-flowers in relief. 
son. Good taste revolts at such a position for portraits, 
even though they be elegantly painted. A china set of 
" Insect Breakfast Plates " is owned by a family of general 




PORTABLE INTERNAL DECORATIONS. 



165 




good taste, but the little girl of the household shrinks with 
horror from a certain garden-worm whenever her food hap- 
pens to accompany that decoration. 
The law is this : Decorate none but 
proper articles, and decorate them 
properly. 

Clarence Cook, writing on over- 
decoration, delivers himself in the 
following forceful words : " The 
architects cannot design a house or jjjjp 
a church, but they must carve every 
stone ; cover the walls with cold, 
discordant tiles ; break up every 
straight line with cuts and chamfers ; 
plow every edge into moldings ; crest 
every roof-ridge and dormer-window 
with painted and gilded iron, and pitcher.-flowers in 

r • c i. r 11 EOLD RELIEF. 

refuse to give us a square foot of wall 

on which to rest the tired eye. Within, the furniture 

follows in the same rampant law- 
lessness. The beauty of simplicity 
in form ; the pleasure to be had from 
lines well thought out ; the agreeable- 
ness of unbroken surfaces where there 
is no gain in breaking them ; harmony 
in color, and, on the whole, the minis- 
tering to the satisfaction we all have 
in not seeing the whole of everything 
at once, — these considerations the 
makers of our furniture, ' fashion- 
able '■ and ' Canal Street' alike, have 
utterly ignored, and the strife has 
long been: Who shall make the 

loudest chairs and sofas and give us the most glare and 

glitter for our money ?" 




PYRAMIDAL VASE. 



III.— EXTERIOR DECORATIONS. 

ARTISTIC architecture is doing wonders in the ex- 
ternal decoration of homes. Even where long rows 
of city houses stand in serried ranks, the present ten- 
dency is to break up monotony, to secure beautiful variety. 
This is done by introducing diversity of forms and colors. 
Bay-windows, mansard-roofs, Swiss projections, permanent 
r /indow-gardens, variously colored bricks, slates, tiles, 
stones, etc., and the splendid decorations in terra cotta, 
make fine variety possible. Where stone is used ornamen- 
tation is limited only by the genius of the architect and the 
purse of the owner. 

In cathedrals and grand public buildings, statuary plays 
an important part in decoration, but for private use this is 
unsuitable, except the house be very large and ornate. In 
private grounds, statuary and vases are allowable if in har- 
mony with their surroundings. Mercury should not be the 
conspicuous piece in a camp-meeting ground, nor should St. 
Peter or St. Paul be the chief feature in a commercial ex- 
change. 

The choice materials for statuary are marble and bronze. 
For outside positions, the stress of weather is damaging, 
however, and the general effect is none the less happy ii 
baser materials be employed. Such ornaments are a spe- 
cialty with various artistic workers in metal, whose elegant 
reproductions of the best works of statuary and vases are 
prepared in iron and zinc, and of all desirable sizes. A few 
ornaments of this character will greatly improve any 
grounds. Their location should be artistic, and with an 
eye for the effect. It is not the vase alone that should be 
displayed, but its display should beautify the surroundings. 

166 



> 

z 

D 
0) 
O 
> 
•"0 

m 

O 
> 
33 

a 
m 

z 

z 

O 
1 

31 

3J 
O 

z 

H 

O 
Tl 

=n 
o 

33 

H 

O 
C 
r~ 
H 

C 

> 

r~ 

> 
r 
r 

? 

33 

O 

C 

z 

-) 

3] 

Tl 

I 




tf 



:? !■ -* 



EXTERIOR DECORATIONS, 167 

The question of color arises here. On a dark background 




POl'LAR-LEAF VASE ON CRANE PEDESTAL. 
[Iron-Bronzed, 41 inches high.] 

white shows best ; on an open background the bronzes are 
preferable. 



168 



HOME DECORATION. 



In rural homes, or those where 
architecture of the house is of 
no great consequence, for trees 
and vines can be so disposed 
as to make it seem magnifi- 
cent. And yet a splendid 
house has greater possibilities. 
The lawn is a most attractive 
feature, if nicely graded, well 
grassed, and closely cropped 
by a lawn-mower. Trees and 
smaller shrubbery must be 
placed with reference to their 
effect. In the great parks 
" dummies " resembling trees 
are used, so that the exact 
effect of certain locations can 



city lots are large, the 





BERLIN VASE. 

[Zinc-Bronzed.] 



BERLIN VASE 
[Iron-Bronzed.] 

be determined. 
These can be shift- 
ed from place to 
place, so helping 
to correct conclu- 
sions. Any other 
feature, as in land- 
scape gardening, 
must be located 
by similar means. 
Effect is sought, 
and this must be 
the best possible, 
as viewed from the 
most important 
point. Nothing in 
a garden should 
be at hap-hazard. 



EXTERIOR DECORA TIONS. 



169 



Egyptian vases for garden uses are beautiful, but the 

strong coloring of the ancients must be shunned, especially 

in the upper part, where they mingle with the flowers. In 

the accompanying cut of an Egyptian vase the base (b) is 

constructed of wood, and is painted 

bright blue, red, and yellow, or merely 

tinted a light or porcelain blue and red 

toned to a brownish cast. The flower- 
pot, or upper part (a), is to be made 

of red clay or terra cotta, the orna- j?5 

ments in relief to be colored a green- jRgg 

ish blue, can de Nile. The pot with 

its contents should be removed to the 

greenhouse when the cold weather 

comes on, the pedestal remaining as a 

permanent winter decoration. 

Home-made vases may be con- 
structed of cast-off boxes of small 

size, half-kegs, etc. These are readily 

covered with rustic strips, made of bark 

or of pieces of sapling cut in half 

longitudinally. Holes must be bored 

in the bottoms, and the whole be 

mounted on an upright post two or three feet in height. 

rf With standing plants in the 
centre, and trailing plants at 
the edges, very beautiful dis- 
play may be secured by 
this simple and inexpensive 
means. Of course, the cov- 
ering strips of bark should 
be up and down, or else at 
antique floral vase. an angle for beauty's sake. 

Indeed, the scope for taste to play in these little contrivances 

is unlimited. 




EGYPTIAN VASE. 




170 



HOME DECORATION. 



A garden vase which any mechanic can construct, with a 
base which any woodman may provide, is shown below to 
dispel the notion that objects of beauty cannot be made at 
home. The spaces must be closed with sheets of tenacious 




IRON VASE ON A RUSTIC BASE. 

moss, the interior filled with rich earth, planted with rapid 
growers and abundant bloomers. Abundant water must be 
given so that the whole may remain in bloom. 



EXTERIOR DECORATIONS. 



171 




FORM OF PRUNING A HEDGE. 



It has become customary in the most beautiful rural cities 
and villages to discard fences. A stone curbing marks the 
street line, while the dividing line of neighbors is not visi- 
ble, but the open lawn, kept by mutual arrangement, runs 

on unbroken. Hedges 
may be employed as 
necessary fencing, or to 
conceal unsightly ob- 
jects which cannot be 
removed. A good hedge 
requires a good soil, so 
that its growth may be 
vigorous. The plants, 
when set out, should be of equal size and set in a single line. 
The Japan quince can be planted six inches apart, and the 
honey locust and Osage orange at nine inches. 

Different styles of planting have been practiced, such as 
setting the plants in double or triple rows, setting them 
very closely, as within three or four inches of each other, 
and also at distances as great as eighteen inches or two feet. 
Experience has shown 
that the plants when 
close to each other 
grow thin and feebly ; 
that with sufficient care 
a better hedge can be 
made with wide than 
with narrow planting. 

In the spring of the " "form of full-grown hedge. 

second year the soil about the hedge must be well worked. 
The main shoot must be cut back to within one joint of its 
starting point, the side shoots remaining a little longer. 
In the third spring, trim in a pyramidal form, as in the 
first cut. This secures light and air at the centre of the 
plant. A later cutting may bring the branches back almost 




172 



HOME DECORATION. 



to the first outline. Four or five years will secure a hedge 
five feet high and six feet thick, through which neither man 
nor beast can pass. Its form may be trimmed at last into 
that shown in the second cut. 

Rustic seats always adorn grounds of reasonable extent. 
Single chairs or extended benches may 
be made, and stumps or other unsightly 
objects may be pressed into the service of 
beauty and utility. Over rustic seats 
vines should clamber, or trees should cast 
their shade. No one wishes to sit in the 
glare of the sun. A Virginia creeper 
will speedily form a dense covering for 
such a place. A little care will train 
it as an arch, an umbrella, an awning, a 
tent, or almost any desired object. 

For outdoor flower-holders many de- rustic chair. 
vices have been worked out. There are terra-cotta pots 
fashioned to resemble stumps and rustic boxes. Rightly 

placed, these heighten the ar- 



For 





tistic effect of a garden. 



all plants in vases, or similar 
vessels, special attention is 
needed or they will dry out. 
If sufficient water is given 
there is no danger from the 
heat of the sun — perhaps it is 
an advantage. Instead of 
watering with a pitcher, give 
a pailful at a time, gently and 
slowly showered upon the 
plants. After the trailing 
plants in a vase fall over the sides, they afford a shade ; but 
if anything like proper care is used, plants will thrive as 
well in vases as in any other location. 



RUSTIC BENCH. 



EXTERIOR DECORA TIOXS. 



173 



The Gypsy Kettle is a pretty decoration for a garden. 
The error of making it gaudy should be avoided. Its col- 
ors should not rival those of its contents. When a crown- 
ing flower-pot is 
used on the stand, 
allow it the trailing 
plants, while the 
erect occupy the 
larger receptacle. 
Holes must be 
made in these ves- 
sels or excessive 
moisture will re- 
sult, to the serious 
damage of all the 
plants. The same 
plants as suit hang- 
ing-baskets suit 
these kettles, and 
the same care pre- 
scribed for those 
and for vases will 
answer exactly for 
the gypsy article. 
The adoption of 
kettle decoration 
has been sternly 
condemned as 
savoring too much 
of the kitchen, but 
the romance of the 
gypsy feature suf- gypsy kettle. 

fices to conceal the homeliness of the " potato-pot." Then, 
too, it might be presumed that not all who see a thing in 
itself beautiful, would cling to its commonest suggestions. 




174 



HOME DECORATION. 



Birds may add to the charms of a garden. Aviaries, 
which can be removed to a warm apartment in winter, may- 
decorate the grounds in summer. They should be elevated, 
to keep out enemies of the birds, unless the inclosing 
meshes be so fine as to render this precaution useless. 




PORTABLE AVIARY. 

On ground which is quite moist, but not submerged, a 
number of interesting plants may be raised. When the 
depth of water is eighteen inches and over, and the supply 
so that there will be no failure in a dry time, water lilies 
may be raised, and pontederias, or pickerel weed, heteran- 
thera, eel grass, white water crowfoot, water target, and the 
handsome foreigner, the Cape pond-weed. 



EXTERIOR DECORA TIONS. 



175 



For the margin, in shallow water, there is a numerous 
dass of plants, such as the different species of rush, the cat^ 
tail hair, the water plantain, the loosestrife, or lythrum, 
nesaea, Dutch moss, or anacharis, and the handsome water 

pitchers. 

Here, too, we may have the mosses, whkh Ruskm thus 
describes : " Meek creatures ! the first mercy of the earth, 
veiling with hushed softness its dintless rock ; creatures full 
of pity, covering with strange and tender honor the scarred 




GARDEN OF THE SULTAN'S PALACE, CONSTANTINOPLE. 

disgrace of ruin, laying quiet fingers on the trembling 
stones to teach them rest. No words that I know will say 
what these mosses are. None are delicate enough, none 
perfect enough, none rich enough. They will not be 
gathered, like the flowers, for chaplet or love token ; but of 
these the wild bird will make its nest, and the wearied child 
his pillow. And as they are the earth's first mercy, so they 
are its last gifts to us ; when all other service is vain from 



176 



HOME DECORATION. 



plant and tree, the soft mosses and gray lichen take up their 
watch by the head-stone. The woods, the blossoms, the 
gift-bearing grasses have done their parts for a time, but 
these do service forever." 

One of the prettiest freaks of nature is that which buries 
a house in vines. For the most satisfactory results the vines 
must be favorably rooted in the earth. Balcony gardening 
and exterior window gardening may go on beautifully by 
means of pots and boxes, but such work is, necessarily, o{ 
limited extent. One of the most striking instances of vine 
decoration is shown in the engraving here given. It is an 
actual drawing from 
a French home. A 
vine-loving visitor 
thus described it in 
one of our floral 
monthlies : " From 
the flag sidewalk 
grew a large grape- 
vine, with a stem pos- 
sibly five inches in 
thickness, without a 
branch or leaf until it 
reached the second 
story. It was then 
trained over the bal- 
cony, making a most 
beautiful arbor, and 
ascended still higher. 
Being the latter part 
of the summer, the 
vine was well loaded 
with white grapes. 

s F VINE COVERED FRENCH DWELLING. 

Some of the bunches 

were grown in thin glass bottles, or vessels of some kind. 




EXTERIOR DECORATIONS. 



177 



somewhat after the manner in which English gardeners 
sometimes grow cucumbers. I have never seen another 
balcony that seemed to me so charming." 

The Canary Flower is a beautiful 
vine, but little used, and yet well 
adapted to our climate. Its leaves are 
a beautiful, light green, and its flow- 
ers of a bright lemon yellow color. 
The flowers grow in rich masses and 
make a splendid appearance when in 
luxuriant growth. The appended cut 
shows a bay-window shaded by this 
lovely creeper. On the cool side of a 





CANARY VINE. 

porch or summer-house 
the Canary Flower is 
charming. 

In England the scar- 
let and dwarf Tropaeo- 
lums are depended 
upon mainly for heavy 
masses of bright color. 
It is a pretty plan to 
grow Nasturtiums on 
trellises and single pyramid pF nastuktium and morning 

«^1 j .. GLORIES. 

poles, and sometimes 

make a kind of pyramid by placing six or eight poles in a 



178 



HOME DECORATION. 



Circle some four feet in diameter, fastening them together at 
the top like an Indian tent, while with these Morning Glo- 
ries may be blended, so producing a rapid shade, which is 
very beautiful to behold. Shady places are more favorable 
to Nasturtiums than those more exposed, but loosening the 
soil and watering freely will work wonders for them even 
in the dryest times. 




i ^m^^^s^m^0m^^ m& 



CALADIUM PLANTS. 

And now, while on the shady places, it may as well be 
said that it is by no means easy to obtain flowers without 
some sunshine. Two hours of sunshine a day will, how- 
ever, give life enough to many plants to insure flowers. In 
shady places we can have ferns, of course, and Caladiums, 
Cannas, and other foliage plants, but it is not best to trV 
flowers. 

Where there are two hours of sunshine we can have Fuch- 



EXTERIOR DECORATIONS. 179 

ias, Pansies, Lily of the Valley, Perennial Phloxes, For- 
get-me-nots, and many other things that succeed better in 
partial shade than in the full sunshine. For such places 
the Japan and California Lilies are pre-eminently valuable. 
The Caladium has become a great favorite in this country 
as it well deserves to be, because its leaves are so large and 
handsome, and also because it never disappoints. It is very 
rare for a bulb to fail to grow and give satisfaction. The 
preceding engraving is from a photograph of a plant of one 
season only. Leaves of the Caladium have grown to be by 
actual measurement three feet and seven inches in length 
thirty inches in width, and ten feet three inches in circum- 
ference. Another leaf has been reported which reached the 
enormous length of forty-one inches, and was twenty-eight 
inches wide. While so gigantic, they are also beautiful in 
texture, and strikingly so from their splendid size. 

Other splendid leaf plants are numerous and inexpensive. 
The Ricinus, or castor-oil plant, is a king in its way. Rich 
and luxuriant in appearance and quick to grow, it is justly 
a great favorite. The Maranta, or Calathea, is a splendidly 
striped leaf plant. The leaves grow from one to two feet in 
length, are purple underneath, and beautifully ribbed with 
velvet on top. This is also a splendid in-door plant. 

Everybody knows the value of roses and other flowering 
plants. The superb catalogues of the leading florists of the 
country furnish all needed information concerning them, so 
that the only duty here is to point out these ample sources 
of information and supply, and commend the public to try 
the best of them. 

A glimpse at French gardening is given in the following 
view of the garden of Fontainebleau, the pride of the Parisian 
heart. The very trees are trimmed into perfect order. In- 
deed, this garden is excessive in its regularity. There are 
too many right lines. Landscape gardening, with its unend- 
ing variety, commands more general favor in this country. 



EXTERIOR DECORA TIONS. 



181 



The same objection lies against the style shown in the 
following cut, which is a view from the grounds of an Italian 
nobleman. 

Clearly, in this case, the master mind was of a strictly 
mathematical turn. There are flower-beds, plenty of them, 
laid out on the square ; plenty of shrubbery, every alternate 
piece being clipped to a uniform cylinder. There is a liberal 
display of statuary, all standing just so high and at a uniform 




SCENE IN AN ITALIAN GARDEN. 

distance apart, the whole ground evidently having been laid 
out with compass and square to a mathematical point 

A few gardens of this character are pleasing ; or a portion 
of any garden so laid out secures variety, but such regular- 
ity must be occasional only. The distinctly marked figureo 
in the heavens are very few, and we of the earth may take a 
lesson therefrom. But some right lines and sharply marked 
figures are admissible. 

The ribbon beds, now so popular for parks, lawns, and 
gardens, are beautiful illustrations of regularity. This system 



182 



HOME DECORATION. 




of bedding, it is claimed, is artificial, and not in good taste, 
which possibly is true ; but tastes differ and change con- 
stantly. It is now thought in good taste to imitate and 

admire the productions of 
Japanese art by those who, 
a few years ago, ridiculed 
the poor, benighted Japs. So 
taste changes in flower beds. 
Ribbon beds may be of flowering or 
variegated leaf-plants, or of both in com- 
bination. The principal consideration in mak- 
ing such beds is to procure plants of nearly 
uniform height, and flowering, that will keep in 
bloom during the whole season, for a failure in 
either respect will mar, if not ruin, the bed. The 
plants must be set so close together, that when they 
have attained their growth, the whole bed will be 
ribbon covered without a break. The tops must be pinched 
BED ' off judiciously so that there will be no excessive 
growth, but that they all will show evenly. 

One of the finest displays of variegated flower beds can 

be made with the bul- 
bous plants of the early 
spring. Crocuses, Hy- 
acinths, and Tulips 
may all adorn the gar- 
dens, and if carefully 
selected and arranged 
splendid effects will be 
secured as the reward of the gardener's taste and skill. 

There is really no limit to the styles which may be intro- 
duced in these beds, both in their component parts and in 
their forms. From the diminutive growth of the lowest- 
growing plants to the most stately of them, all find a place 
and a use in ribbon beds. 




PLAN OF RIBBON BEDS. 



EXTERIOR DECORATIONS. 



183 



Dwarf trees are a specialty with the Chinese. Pines and 
oaks a half century old are seen in their flower-pots. The 
secret of the dwarfing is in weakening the seat of vigor all 
that is possible without destroying life. Take, for example, 
a young cedar two or three inches high and cut off its tap 
root, resetting that on a stone in a shallow pan with a clay 




PAMFILI DORIA, A SUPERB ROMAN VILLA. 

soil. Water and light enough to keep the plant alive are 
allowed, but no more. The shape is controlled by pegs and 
strings, and is often very odd. The Japanese carry this 
dwarfing to such a ridiculous degree that a Dutch merchant 
was shown a box three inches deep and with a square inch 
of surface, in which a bamboo, a fir, and a plum tree — the 
latter in full bloom — were growing and thriving. The price 
asked for this botanical curiosity was three hundred dollars. 



184 



HOME DECORATION. 



Tastefully made rockeries are good adornments. They 
need not be built into arches and beacons, as is done some- 
times with questionable taste, but they should be sufficiently 
large to deserve their title. The rocks must be so sepa- 
rated as to allow deep pockets of rich earth to be con- 
structed. Many charm- 
ing native plants will 
flourish in such places, 
but will not succeed in 
more open and ex- 
posed beds. The trail- 
ing arbutus, the par- 
tridge-berry, the dog's- 

CIRCULAR ROCKERY, tooth violet> blo0(j 

root, Gentians, and Pyrolas, may be placed on a rock-work 
For early blossoms, crocus, snowdrops, the 




such as this. 





RUSTIC FLOWER STANDS. 

smaller Narcissus, and tulips may be planted, and ferns, and 
even mosses from the woods, will here find a suitable habi- 
tation. 



FOURTH DEPARTMENT. 



Polite Deportment. 



How sweet and gracious, even in common speech. 
Is that fine sense which men call courtesy ! 
Wholesome as air and genial as the light — 
Welcome in every clime as breath of flowers; 
It transmutes aliens into trusting friends 
And gives its owner passport round the globe. 

James T. Fie_d. 



Polite Deportment. 



SOME one has said that " a man's manners are his for- 
tune," meaning that the way to position and easy- 
competence in life is often found through gentleness and 
good breeding, which lead first to genuine respect, then to 
esteem and confidence. Many a young man has failed to 
secure a coveted place by reason of his boorish ways or 
awkward movements at a first interview, and foolishly charged 
his loss to " ill luck," when the fault was wholly with him- 
self. Many another has moved right up to a well-deserved 
eminence in his calling more by his genteel and polite bear- 
ing than by reason of some superior mental capacity. 

WHERE TO LOOK FOR MODELS. 

True gentlemen and ladies may be found in the humblest 
walks of life, among both young and old. The marks that 
prove them such are not wholly external, though the inter- 
nal conditions are evidenced by the external. There is a 
sham politeness which bows and smirks and is obeisant in 
public, but is detestably wanting in common civility in pri- 
vate. Such as indulge in this kind wear their manners as 
one wears an outer garment, which is put on when leaving 
home and left on the hall rack at the door when returning 
home. Some of these are the over-nice people, who pre- 
tend to hide their faces and try to affect blushes at the mere 
mention of some very natural and proper subjects. Others 
are known as the Exquisite, the Dandy, the Fop, the Dude, 
whose brains are generally less than their surface manners. 

187 



138 POLITE DEPORTMENT. 

It is evident that as the principles of a language are 
rived from the usage of the best writers and speakers, so 
.ne principles of polite deportment are derived from the 
usage of the truest and best people. The rules in the one 
case are not more definite than in those of the other. The 
highest point of culture to which any one may attain in 
either is purely a matter of choice. The beginning must be 
in one's-self, but with an assurance that the largest success 
is not only practicable, but a duty to self and to society. 

THE REAL GENTLEMAN AND LADY. 

A recent writer thus well describes the true gentleman 
and lady : " To formulate the definition in negatives would 
be easy. As, for instance, we may say that a true gentle- 
man does not soil his conscience with falsehood, does not 
waste his time upon sensual indulgence, does not endeavor 
to make the worse appear the better reason, does not ridi- 
cule sacred subjects, does not willfully give cause of offense 
to any, does not seek to overreach his neighbor, does not 
forget the respect due to womanhood or to old age, the feeble 
or the poor. And so, too, the true lady does not conde- 
scend to scandal or gossip, does not profane her lips with 
'slang' words, does not yield to outbursts of temper, docs 
not sacrifice modesty to fashion, does not turn a deaf ear to 
the voice of distress. But, to speak affirmatively : A gentle- 
man is one whose aims are generous, whose trust is 
constant, whose word is never broken, whose honor is never 
stained, who is as brave as gentle and as honest as wise, 
who wrongs no one by word or deed, and devotes and em- 
bellishes life by nobility of thought, depth of feeling, and 
grace of manner. As for the true lady — she will be, of 
necessity, the counterpart of the true gentleman : Pure, 
refined, generous, sweet of temper, gentle of speech, truthful 
to her heart's core, shunning the very appearance of evil, 
and instant in well-doing." 



POLITE DEPORTMENT. 189 

PERSONAL HABITS. 

We are now ready to consider personal habits in then 

relation to polite deportment. Every person owes certain 

well-defined obligations to society, not only in the line of 

what is said and done in the presence of others, but in the 

appearance and habits, which in an important degree affect 

the comfort and pleasure of others. It has been well said 

that " cleanliness, neatness, and tidiness represent the triple 

incentive to the maintenance of any and every system of 

etiquette." An untidy person of either sex gives evidence 

either of ignorance or willful disregard of the commr -<* r 

& . & r ..-jnest 

principles of politeness. 

Other things being equal, the person who enjoys t 

health will be the best-mannered, and no one has any „• *. 
to live in disregard of those practices and conditions wi^ i 
produce or promote health. The daily bath, proper - 1 aP 
ing of the teeth and mouth, scrupulous car^ . , 

finger-nails, and careful dressing of the {j£^_. w j t hout oils 
pomades, or perfumes— are essentia] ^e S# Over-eatino-' 
with its train of headachy ; foul "breath, and indigestion,' 
and the use of tODacco in any form, with disgusting expecto- 
ration, are not the practices which mark the best-bred per- 
sons. " If one must chew, let him be particular where he 
expectorates. He should not discharge tobacco-juice in 
public vehicles, on the sidewalk, nor in any place where it 
will be offensive. The English rule is for him to spit in his 
handkerchief; but this is not a pleasant alternative. On 
some occasions no other may offer." Whether smoking is 
good or bad, wholesome or injurious, the excess of 
smoking is, at all events, as noxious to the smoker as it is 
disagreeable to his neighbors. If you must have your pipe 
or your weed, retire to some apartment kept exclusively as 
a smoking-room. Do not smoke in a lady's presence; not 
even if her good nature prompt her to yield assent. Yon 
i>4 



i 



130 POLITE DEPORTMENT. 

have no right to impregnate her garments with pot-house 
odor. 

Toilet offices of all kinds should be in private. Cleansing 
the nose or the ears, or cleaning and trimming the finger 
nails in public, is an offense against decency, and never 
should be indulged in. Biting the nails, fingering the 
beard, drumming on the table with your fingers, crossing 
your legs and shaking your free foot, loud breathing, yawn- 
ing, snuffling, and going about with hands thrust in the 
pockets, are not marks of politeness and good breeding. A 
quiet and self-possessed manner and quiet movements of 
the person are always better than restless and disturbing 
habits, which are sure to be obtrusive as well as dis- 
agreeable. 

HABITS OF SPEECH. 

One's habits of speech will betray the inward character. 
Truly polite people do not use other than polite language, 
which is but a plain, simple, and unaffected expression of 
one's thoughts. Coarse and vulgar words, slang phrases, 
and profanity should never have place. Some people swear 
because of an idea that it is manly; some from habit, wun- 
out thinking of what they say ; some are only profane when 
excited with anger ; some from choice, neither fearing God 
nor regarding man, and in defiance of the divine command, 
" Swear not at all." A lady was once annoyed by the fre- 
quent oaths of a young student sitting near her in a rail- 
road car. She kindly addressed him with a question 
whether he had studied the languages. " I have mastered 
them thoroughly," he replied. " Do you speak Hebrew ?" 
she asked. " I do," was the answer. " Then will you do 
me the favor to do your swearing in Hebrew ?" she asked. 
The rebuke was effectual. 

With regard to the use of slang words by a lady, we are 
reminded of the grisly fairy story of a beautiful young 



POLITE DEPORTMENT. \§\ 

woman from whose mouth, when she opened it, dropped 
frogs and toads. The practice of slang is as unworthy of a 
gentleman as it is of a lady. 

Civility in speech is due to every person, and on all occa- 
sions. Employers would do well to remember that civil 
words, with kind and thoughtful actions, make friends of 
workmen or servants. Their use tends to bind more closely 
those who are already friends. Arrogance of speech and 
manner toward inferiors is on a par with servility toward 
superiors. True dignity and self-respect will lead to a cor- 
rect deportment in dealing with either. There is a possi- 
bility of being over-civil. Promptly pick up anything that 
a lady lets fall, but do not rush to wait upon even a iriend, 
lest you become servile in your attentions to the embarrass- 
ment of both yourself and your friend. You will not, how- 
ever, fail in proper attention to elderly people. A nice 
sense of respect for the aged and kind attentions to them 
show a good heart. 

General fussiness ought to be carefully avoided. Whether 
well or sick, it is needless, and entails a great deal of trou- 
ble and annoyance upon our friends. " There is nothing 
more fatal to comfort, as well as to decorum of behavior, 

than fuss." 

AFFECTATION. 

Affectation of any kind is ridiculous in any one. It may 
be termed " posing for effect." An article in Harper's 
Bazar Book paints some specimens : " The delicate young 
lady with the languid air, the listless step, or die-away pos- 
ture ! The literary young lady with the studiously ne- 
glected toilette, the carefully exposed breadth of forehead, 
and the ever-present but seldom-read book ! The abste- 
mious young lady, who surreptitiously feeds on chops at 
private lunch and starves on a pea at the public dinner! 
The humane young lady, who pulls Tom's ears and other- 
wise tortures brother and sister in the nursery and does her 



192 POLITE DEPORTMENT. 

utmost to fall into convulsions before company at trie sight 
of a dead fly ! and the fastidious young lady, who faints — 
should there be an audience to behold the scene — at the 
sight of roast goose, but whose robust appetite vindicates 
itself by devouring all that is left of the unclean animal when 
a private opportunity will allow. Such affectations are not 
only absurd — for they are perfectly transparent — but ill-bred, 
as shams of all kinds essentially are." 

Sidney Smith says : " All affectation proceeds from the 
supposition of possessing something better than the rest oi 
the world possesses. Nobody is vain of possessing two 
legs and two arms, because that is the precise quantity of 
either sort of limb which everybody possesses." The 
affected individual is always full of self-consciousness, and 
this is simple vulgarity. A truly polite person is too busy 
in considering the comfort and welfare of others to devote 
much time to thoughts of a purely selfish character. 

DRESS. 

Closely related to personal habits is the question of dress. 
It has been well said that '" the result of the finest toilet 
should be an elegant woman, not an elegantly dressed 
woman." Chesterfield's advice to his son was sensible, and 
applies well to our own times : " Dress yourself fine where 
others are fine, and plain where others are plain ; but take 
care always that your clothes are well made and fit you, for 
otherwise they will give you a very awkward air. When 
you are once well dressed for the day, think no more of it 
afterward, and without any stiffness for fear of discomposing 
that dress, let all your motions be easy and natural, as if 
you had no clothes on at all." 

The objects of dress may be considered as threefold : To 
secure personal comfort and health, to preserve modesty, 
and to please the taste. Of men's clothing there is not 
much to say, except that it should be of quiet colors and 



POLITE DEPORTMENT. 193 

well fitting. There is little opportunity for either contrasts 
or harmonious combinations of colors. But with the dress 
of women it is different. The most costly materials will fail 
to produce an agreeable impression unless their colors are 
carefully blended and the dressing forms a pleasing har- 
mony in its general effect. 

Ladies of a medium size may, perhaps, wear a dress with 
large figures, plaids, or stripes, if the prevailing fashions 
allow it ; but either large or small ladies would scarcely be 
in taste to wear either. Much drapery is not becoming to 
a short and stout person, while one who is slender may be 
improved in appearance by drapery. Then, as to tints : it is 
well known that fair complexions require delicate tints, while 
brunettes require rich, dark shades. 

Dresses should be carefully fitted to the form, yet not so 
that the natural functions of the body be impeded. Give 
nature room to move and breathe, and many a painful ex- 
perience in bodily suffering will be prevented. By all means 
avoid tight belts about the waist. The dress should be be- 
coming, and it will then be in taste. It should not be so 
noticeable that special attention would be attracted to it. 
To be entirely out of fashion is to be eccentric, yet a true 
independence will not lead to a servile following of every 
fashionable folly in dress that may appear. To be indiffer- 
ent to one's proper appearance is a sign of indolence and . 

slovenliness 

There should be consistency in dress. That is, there 
should be regard to one's circumstances in life, so that what 
cannot be afforded without pecuniary embarrassment never 
should be worn. The dress should be in harmony with the 
occasion. A bail-dress at a funeral would not be more out 
of place than the rich toilette of the drawing-room is found 
to be when chosen for a walking-suit. 

But if there is one place more than another where great 
elegance and showiness of dress are out of taste, it is in the 



194 POLITE DEPORTMENT. 

House of God, where all should meet in equal humility 
before Him in whose sight outward adornment passes for 
nothing. Paley says, " If ever the poor man holds up his head, 
it is at church ; if ever the rich man views him with respect, it 
is there, and both will be the better, and the public profited, 
the oftener they meet in a situation in which the conscious- 
ness of dignity in the one is tempered and mitigated, and 
the spirit of the other erected and confirmed." 

Regard should also be had to one's pursuits and sur- 
roundings. A business attire should be neat and not 
showy ; its material serviceable and of a sober color. A 
traveling attire should be such as will furnish comfort and 
protection from dust and dirt ; soft neutral tints and smooth 
surface are best. Anything which would attract special 
attention from fellow-travelers should be scrupulously 
avoided. 

MOURNING ATTIRE. 

Where persons wear mourning for style rather than feel- 
ing, they will consult the fashion of the day. Deep 
mourning requires the heaviest black material with crape 
collar and cuffs. Ruffles, bows, and flounces are inadmis- 
sible. The bonnet must be of black crape; the veil of crape 
or barege with heavy border ; black gloves and black- 
bordered handkerchiefs; jet pins and buckles; no jewels. A 
widow wears mourning for two years ; for a parent or child, 
mourning is worn for one year ; for a grandparent, mourning 
is worn for six months ; the same for a brother or sister ; 
for an uncle or aunt, nephew or niece, three months. 
There are some good people, however, who from principle 
never on any occasion allow themselves to wear mourning 
habiliments, believing the practice to be contrary to a 
Christian faith. Aside from this exception ladies should 
always wear black dresses at funerals, and in this excep- 
tional case plain dresses are always worn. 



POLITE DEPORTMENT. 195 

PERFUMES. 

It may be that some will think a perfume of some sort is 
essential to complete the toilet. " The most refined people, 
however, avoid personal perfumes, and hold that the absence 
of all odor is the best savor of human communion. Those 
of nice taste eschew all perfumes but those that are evanes- 
cent, such as cologne and the like." A strong perfume of 
any kind is not desirable, if, indeed, it be not actually vul- 
gar. There is always a suggestion that it conceals some 
foulness. 

POLITENESS AT HOME. 

We come now to consider Polite Deportment m the 
domain of home, which ought to be to us the most sacred 
and beautiful place on earth. It may be said in general that 
it is the duty of every member of a family to do all that is 
possible to promote the happiness of the other members, 
It is necessary, therefore, to bear and forbear; to make 
mutual concessions ; to keep down selfishness ; to cultivate 
a love of justice and honor; to get rid of our petty likes 
and dislikes ; to conquer and control our temper. Much 
may be done by a nice attention to the requirements of 
etiquette, by an observance of those laws which govern the 
decencies and proprieties of life. There is no reason why 
a husband should not treat his wife with exquisite polite- 
ness ; why a wife should not remember that her husband 
has a claim to be treated like a gentleman ; why the finest 
manners should not be observed by brothers and sisters. 
This mutual courtesy, inspired by mutual love, would purify 
the atmosphere of home, and invest with a new dignity 
our domestic relations. 

A DOMESTIC PICTURE. 

Suppose we present a single day in such a home as might 
exist anywhere. It is early morning. An understood signal 



196 POLITE DEPORTMENT. 

indicates the time for breakfast to be reasonably near. Plans 
carefully made require that the family come together at the 
morning meal promptly, that the happiness of each may be 
conserved. Sufficient time is taken to become suitably 
attired to meet the household, and to so arrange the sleep- 
ing-room that no one need hesitate to enter lest sense and 
taste may be offended. Everything is left in good order. 
The washstand or basin is emptied ; the towels properly 
hung up ; the bed-clothing turned over the foot-board ; arti- 
cles of wearing apparel not in use, put away. Without 
haste or perturbation the family meet in the dining-room 
and sit down together ; grace is said ; hot and savory food 
is brought on ; cheerful conversation seasons the hour ; re- 
spect is shown to parents and superiors ; the servants are 
treated with kind consideration ; sufficient time is secured 
for the purposes of the meal by planning for it, hence there 
is no bolting of food and rushing off in disorder to meet a 
train or to get to business in due season. 

Either at the end or the centre sits father, perhaps carv- 
ing the steak, but certainly making himself useful, as well 
as ornamental. Opposite is the serene-faced mother, justly 
proud of her honorable position. On one side perhaps the 
aged grandmother, giving her meed of sunshine to the 
board. The prattle of children's voices mingles occasionally 
in conversation. In honor each prefers the other, and all 
contribute to the peace and glory of the home. 

The personal habits, of which so full mention has already 
been made, now show their effects. The politeness which 
begins in personal conditions is now working outwardly. 
There are no slovens here — there could not be. Gentleness 
and civility rule the hour. Why should they not be more 
marked at home than anywhere else ? There is not a word 
of slander or defamation. Peace toward each other ; charity 
toward all. Hans Christian Andersen's story of the cobweb 
cloth, so finely woven that it was invisible, and specially 



POLITE DEPORTMENT. 197 

made for the King's garment, stands perhaps for the sweet 
manners which are the fine and kingly clothing of royal 
souls. 

Domestic duties for the day follow the morning repast. 
Father is away at business, the children at school, and the 
elder ones of the household fully occupied. There is found 
time for healthful reading, for the good wife has early 
learned that she must not fall behind her husband or chil- 
dren in personal and religious culture. Both, in their deal- 
ing with the world of people and the world of books, are 
constantly growing. She must keep up with them or lose 
their genuine respect. Moreover, she must be able to 
direct the tastes of her family in reading, that they may be 
fitted for cultivated society, and be enabled thereby to do 
well their parts in life. The best literature of the day has 
place upon table or shelf, and is read with pleasure and 
profit. 

Perhaps one of the family is ill. The soft tread and gen- 
tle care show that politeness is not wanting in extremity 
and in bodily suffering. There is no slamming of doors ; 
no boisterous talking ; no disregard of a single thing which 
relates to the comfort of the invalid. A due regard for the 
sufferer leads to a gentle tap at the door before entering ; 
the ignoring of little things which are not agreeable in the 
sick one's surroundings or condition ; and patience in the 
rendering of such attentions as may be needed ; with an 
affectionate interest born of a really good heart. 

The shadows are creeping on apace as the day draws to 
its close, and the family is now gathered for dinner. It is 
thought worth their while for each to be in becoming attire, 
to dress for each other quite as neatly as if the outside 
world were looking on. There is true grace and beautiful 
simplicity. The " shop " is left behind. Markets, bonds, 
stocks, wony and fret, are not brought home at the close of 
the business day. Conversation does not lag. There is 



198 POLITE DEPORTMENT. 

room for each to have part, and what some might think the 
trivial things in children's experience receive their meed of 
attention and honor. There is no slang ; no impolite lan- 
guage ; no " street talk ;" no reference to disgusting sub- 
jects. The family sit naturally erect, without lounging or 
appearing to be tired. Elbows are not planted on the table ; 
napkins are not adjusted under the chin like bibs; no one 
appears to be greedy for food, neither is there any dainti- 
ness that is unsuitable. There is no effort to talk while the 
mouth is full. There is no coughing, or sneezing, or other 
disgusting noises with nose or mouth. The knife is only 
used to cut the food, while the fork and spoon are used to 
convey food to the mouth. Great care is taken that the 
tablecloth be not soiled. The carving is done neatly, ex- 
peditiously, and courteously. There is neither a niggardly 
supply nor an overloading of plates. It seems as if carving 
were no trouble, and that it gave pleasure to supply what- 
ever is desired by any one at the table. 

If any little accident happens, no notice is taken of it — ■ 
no frowns, no muttering of reproof. The servants share in 
the politeness. " Please " is not omitted when a request is 
made. A " thank you " is not infrequent. The quietness 
of the meal is not broken by noises made by mastication, or 
smacking the lips, or gulping of liquids. When the meal 
is concluded, the whole family rise from the table, and now 
the " children's hour " is in order. 

The children have learned that there is a time to play 
and a time when not to play, as well as how to play without 
interfering with the enjoyment of others. There is kindness, 
good temper, and politeness. There are no rude and offen- 
sive practical jokes perpetrated. There is universal mirth 
and cheerfulness ; there is gayety and life. When the 
proper hour arrives for the children to retire there is neither 
teasing nor sulks. A beautiful night closes upon a beauti- 
ful day for them in the home and the good-night kiss blesses 



POLITE DEPORTMENT. 109 

each in order. If friends call, they are made welcome, and 
the evening is spent no less pleasantly than the day was 
begun. It is all the result of good nature and good man- 
agement, combined with good sense and religious principle. 
An eminent authority in household etiquette says : " Let 
no one suppose that because a good wife lives in a small 
house and dines on homely fare the general principles of 
polite deportment do not apply to her. A small house is 
more easily kept clean than a palace. Taste may be quite 
as well displayed in the arrangement of dishes on a pine 
table as in grouping the silver and china of the rich. Skill 
in cooking is as readily shown in a baked potato or johnny* 
cake as in a canvas-back duck. The charm of good house- 
keeping lies in a nice attention to little things, not in a 
superabundance. A dirty kitchen and bad cooking have 
driven many a husband and son, and many a daughter, too, 
from a home that should have been a refuge from tempta- 
tion. Bad dinners go hand in hand with total depravity, 
while a properly fed man is already half saved." 

AWAY FROM HOME. 

If people are well bred at home, their deportment when 
away from home, in ordinary social intercourse, will be such 
as befits the true gentleman or lady. They will then reflect 
the home life. But, being in the homes of others, there will 
be certain formalities and restraints which are essential to 
the comfort or rights of those whom they may meet. These 
should always be recognized and regarded. A careful 
observance of them will also promote your own comfort and 
well-being. 

INTRODUCTIONS. 

Introductions, more or less formal, are necessary. They 
may form the basis of enjoyment for a brief period, or of a 
lasting friendship. It is usually the way by which parties 
become acquainted. Sometimes persons are obliged to 



200 POLITE DEPORTMENT. 

introduce themselves, and in such cases, unless well known 
by reputation, there may be some risk in forming an 
acquaintance. No one will presume on an acquaintance so 
formed unless it is accepted in the most unmistakable 
manner. 

It is not necessary to introduce a friend to every one you 
meet, without regard to time or place. This must, however, 
depend upon the good sense of the parties concerned. It 
might be very rude not to introduce a friend, even though 
the parties so introduced might never meet again. As a 
rule, we should always be sure that an introduction would 
be mutually desirable ; hence, one should never introduce 
a gentleman to a lady, for instance, without first obtaining 
her consent. An introduction of any kind implies an 
indorsement of character. It is right sometimes to decline 
giving an introduction where there is the least doubt of the 
propriety of so doing. 

Gentlemen, whatever their rank, should be presented to 
ladies ; young men to elderly men ; young women to 
elderly women ; those of lower rank to persons of higher 
rank. When a gentleman is introduced to another gentle- 
man, each offers a hand ; when a gentleman is introduced 
to a lady, he should wait for her to offer her hand. If she 
does not do so, he must be content with a bow. 

At dinner-parties general introductions are unnecessary ; 
though it is to be assumed that you would not seat at the 
same table persons whom you would not wish to know each 
other. In sending your guests down to dinner you must, 
of course, introduce the lady to her destined partner, if they 
happen to be unacquainted. In this case you do not ask 
the lady's permission. At morning calls, if the callers 
arrive at the same time the hostess will introduce them to 
each other, unless she has good grounds for believing that 
the introduction would be disagreeable or unsuitable. At 
" five-o'clock teas " and similar receptions the hostess must 



POLITE DEPORTMENT. 201 

introduce her principal guests to each other ; but in doing 
so she must exercise a due discretion and assort her guests 
with all possible discrimination. 

Between gentlemen the form of introduction may be very 
simple, as : " Mr. A., my friend, Mr. B.," where the parties 
are of equal station in life and about the same age. Other- 
wise, it is better to say : " Mr. A., allow me to introduce 
my friend, Mr. B." As a means of starting conversation 
and so placing both parties at their ease, a remark should 
be added, explaining the business, or residence, or any other 
item which may be considered of interest, especially if the 
party introduced is on a trip for business or pleasure. 

An introduction to a lady should always be more formal. 
The usual way is to bow to the lady, or slightly wave the 
hand, and say : " Mrs. B., permit me to introduce my 
friend, Mr. D. ;" or, in case an introduction has been 
sought : " Mrs. B., I take pleasure in presenting my friend, 
Mr. D." The precise form is immaterial, so that the proper 
order be observed. The introduction should be recognized 
by each bowing to the other and each repeating the other's 
name. The gentleman should say : "lam glad to have the 
pleasure of meeting you," or something of similar import. 

It is hardly necessary to say that the names of the parties 
should always be uttered distinctly. If either party fails to 
understand the name of the other, it is proper to say : " I 
beg your pardon ; I did not understand the name ;" where- 
upon it should be repeated. 

When several are to be introduced to one person, the 
name of the latter should be distinctly spoken, and then the 
names of the parties introduced should be mentioned in 
succession, with a slight bow as each name is called. 
Where relatives are introduced, care should be taken to 
give both the degree of kinship and the name. For instance : 
* My father, Mr. C. ;" or, " My son, Mr. C." One's wife is 
simply designated as " Mrs. A." 



202 POLITE DEPORTMENT. 

It is proper always to recognize the title of one who ia 
introduced— as, " Rev. Mr. A. ;" or, " Rev. Dr. B. ;" or, 
" Honorable Mr. C," if the party is a Congressman ; or, 
" Senator J.," and so on. Sometimes a complimentary 
remark may be well — as, " Mr. Jones, whose recent work 
on esthetics has given us so much pleasure." 

An adherence to etiquette is a mark of respect. If a man 
be worth knowing, he is surely worth the trouble of ap- 
proaching properly. It will likewise relieve you from the 
awkwardness of being acquainted with people of whom you 
might at times be ashamed, or be obliged under any circum- 
stances to " cut." Take care not to know anybody whom 
you will be obliged to " cut." " Cutting " is simply declin- 
ing to recognize a person to whom you have previously 
been introduced. It may be done direct by a cold look, as 
if to an entire stranger ; or indirectly, by averting the face 
on passing and not returning, by word or manner, an offered 
salutation. 

SALUTATIONS AND GREETINGS. 

Salutations and greetings are very simple among Ameri- 
cans. The most common phrases are " Good morning," 
" Good afternoon," " Good evening," " How are you ?" and 
" How do you do ?" Some people simply say " Howdy ?" 
or " How d'ye ?" but the latter never should be indulged in 
except between intimate friends ; it is perhaps not in taste 
at any time. A pleasant smile and slight bow is desirable 
as an accompaniment to the words spoken. The most 
affectionate form of salution is the kiss, which is only proper 
among near relatives and dear friends. The practice of 
women kissing each other in public is held to be decidedly 
vulgar, and had better be avoided. A due respect to child- 
hood ought to prevent the liberty so often taken of kissing 
young girls who, though mortified, dare not resent it. There 
is no more propriety in kissing a child without its consent 



rOLITE DEPORTMENT. 203 

than there is of kissing a grown woman under the same cir- 
cumstances. 

HAND-SHAKING. 

With regard to hand-shaking, a few suggestions may- 
cover the points that are worthy of remembrance. It is not 
well to offer to shake hands with every one in a drawing- 
room; if the host or hostess offers a hand, take it; a bow 
will do for the rest. Hand-shaking is not admissible in a 
formal party or ball-room. The initiative, in hand-shaking, 
must always come from the lady, from the elder to the 
younger, and from the one higher in rank. But in no case 
let there be the " mutilated courtesy," as Goldsmith calls 
it, in which by the touch of one or two fingers in a pre- 
tended hand-shaking a mere mockery of civility is rendered 
in place of true courtesy. 

Remember that there is a right and a wrong way of 
hand-shaking. It is horrible when your unoffending digits 
are seized in the sharp compress of a kind of vise, and 
wrung and squeezed until you feel as if they were reduced 
to jelly. It is not less horrible when you find them lying in 
a limp, nerveless clasp, which makes no response to your 
hearty greeting, but chills you like a lump of ice. Shake 
hands as if you meant it. swiftly, strenuously, and courte- 
ously, neither using an undue pressure nor falling wholly 

supine. 

UNDUE FAMILIARITY. 

" Familiarity breeds contempt." Some forms of familr. 
arity are positively odious, such as slapping your friend on 
the back or nudging him in the side. Such practices should 
never be indulged in or permitted. Indeed, there need be 
no occasion, as a rule, to touch people at all when you have 
occasion to address them. Again, some persons behave in 
a drawing-room as if they were the only guests, and the 
remainder of the company had been assembled to admire — ■ 
at a distance — their intimacy with the hostess. This is an 



204 POLITE DEPORTMENT. 

assumption of familiarity and a token of ill breeding. The 
same may be said of retaining upon the head one's hat in 
a strictly private office, which is no more justifiable than it 
would be to wear it in a drawing-room. 

Closely related to this latter is the loud and boisterous 
laugh, which is decidedly vulgar. A hearty laugh is pleas- 
ing, but a loud guffaw is never necessary in order to show 
heartiness, any more than a loud tone in talking is agree- 
able to the listener. 

There are many other acts which may be classed as vul- 
gar. Among these are humming and whistling ; standing 
with arms a-kimbo ; lounging and yawning ; addressing 
acquaintances by their Christian names ; playing practical 
jokes, and whispering in the presence of others. Yet 
there should not be diffidence and embarrassment in asso- 
ciating with either equals or superiors. For instance, there 
is a great art in entering a room. Some persons stride in 
with a shamefaced air, as if they thought they had no busi- 
ness across the threshold ; others swagger in defiantly, 
with head erect and chest expanded, like a professional 
athlete making his appearance before his " patrons ;" others, 
again, steal in noiselessly, as if deprecating the slightest 
attention, and priding themselves on their humility. Enter 
a room as if you felt yourself entitled to a welcome, but 
wished to take no undue advantage of it. 

Having entered the room, one need not be in great haste 
to get into a chair. It may be as graceful, easy, and proper 
to stand for a while, and converse easily while in that atti- 
tude, yet a chair should be accepted when offered. 

CONVERSATION. 

The art of conversation is one which boasts of a sacred 
charter : " Iron sharpeneth iron ; so a man sharpeneth 
the countenance of his friend ;" " As in water face answereth 
to face, so the heart of man to man." (Proverbs xxvii, 17, 19.) 



POLITE DEPORTMENT. 205 

It is not possible to teach the art of conversation. On the 
other hand, it is not difficult to lay down certain general 
rules, the observance of which must be held as indispen- 
sable to the comfort of the company in which one finds 
himself. 

For example, elaborate discussions of political and relig- 
ious subjects must be avoided. Our differences on these 
points go very deep, and any debate which forces them on 
our consideration cannot fail to awaken permanent feelings 
of irritation and dislike. 

However much in the right, yield with a good grace 
when you perceive that persistence in ventilating your 
opinions will result in open variance. The true spirit of 
conversation consists less in displaying one's own cleverness 
than in bringing out the cleverness of other people. Con- 
versation is the pasture-ground of the many, therefore it 
should keep to the levels. There are very few who can 
ascend the heights, and none ought to sink into the depths. 

Gesticulate as little as you can while speaking. Some 
people spread out their fingers like fans ; others point 
them at you menacingly, like so many darts ; this man 
emphasizes his speech by bringing down one unfortunate 
hand into the palm of the other ; that man nods his head 
like a child's toy figure, and carries his arm up and down 
like a pump-handle. 

When any one is speaking do not yawn, nor hum an air, 
nor pick the teeth, nor drum with the fingers on a piece of 
furniture, nor whisper in a neighbor's ear, nor take a letter 
out of the pocket and read it, nor look at your watch. 

There is no flattery so exquisite as " the flattery of listen- 
ing." It may be doubted whether the greatest mind is ever 
proof against it. Socrates may have loved Plato best of all 
his disciples because he listened best. To listen well is 
almost as indispensable as to talk well, and it is by the skill 
with which he listens that the man of bon ton and of good 



206 POLITE DEPORTMENT. 

society is known. If you wish people to listen to you, you 
must listen to them. Let not your patience give way when 
elderly people are garrulous. Respect old age, even when 
it twaddles ; you yourself may live to require the indul- 
gence which you are now recommended to exercise. 

There are social Munchausens whose narratives make 
tremendous demands on your credulity. Do not express 
your belief in what you disbelieve, for that would be to 
utter a falsehood ; do not express an open dissent, for that 
would be to commit a rudeness. Take refuge in a courte- 
ous silence, and — change the subject. 

Be careful how you exercise your wit. If curses, like 
chickens, come home to roost, so do epigrams. Do not 
applaud the wit which is leveled at your friend ; it may next 
be directed against yourself. Do not give another, even if 
it be a better, version of a story already told by one of your 
companions. Be careful how you distribute praise or blame 
to your neighbors — some of those present will have their 
prejudices or partialities, which you will be sure to offend — 
and on no account interrupt or contradict a person who may 
be speaking. 

Speak of yourself as little as possible. If you speak in 
praise, you expose yourself to ridicule ; if you blame your- 
self, nobody will think you in earnest, and it will be assumed 
that you are seeking for compliments, or that you are 
merely affecting humility ; or if your vanity be excused, it 
will be at the expense of your intelligence — if you are not 
vain, you must be stupid. 

Do not " talk shop," that is, unless specially requested ; 
do not talk of your professional occupation, your private 
studies, or your personal belongings, neither of your house, 
nor your wife, nor your servant, nor your property. 

Do not pay compliments unless you can do so with grace, 
and in such a manner that, though the person on whom 
the sweet flattery is bestowed recognize it as undeserved, 



POLITE DEPORTMENT. 207 

he or she may still believe that on your part it is perfectly 
sincere. Dean Swift says pithily : " Nothing is so great 
an instance of ill-manners as flattery. If you flatter all the 
company you please none ; if you flatter only one or two 
you affront the rest." But an elegant compliment at an 
opportune moment, and spoken with an air of frankness, 
carries with it an irresistible charm. 

To be a good talker requires much general information, 
which may be acquired by observation, reading and study, 
and listening to others. To this must be added a good 
memory, which can be cultivated by proper effort ; a right 
knowledge and use of language, and clear enunciation. 
The use of such vulgarisms as " awfully nice," " abominably 
horrid," " dreadfully stupid," and the like, are always to be 
avoided. It is a bad habit which is very close to untruth- 
fulness. Very few people would utter a willful lie, yet 
many become untrustworthy because of their habit of 
exaggeration and false coloring. 

FORMAL CALLS. 

The formal call is a mere device for keeping up acquaint- 
ance. Once or twice a year is regarded as sufficiently often 
to meet fashionable requirements. Simply sending cards 
sometimes takes the place of a call. A " morning call " 
means generally any call made in the daytime, and is a 
mere matter of ceremony. It should not be made in the 
forenoon, nor just previous to the usual hour of luncheon, 
nor later than five in the afternoon. Local customs govern 
the matter of special days for receiving calls. 

When a lady for any reason prefers not to see callers, 
the servant is usually instructed to say that she is engaged, 
or " not at home." As the latter is not strictly correct, a 
regard to truthfulness should prevent the statement. A 
polite mention that the lady could not receive callers ought 
to be sufficient To insist on seeing a person after such a 



208 POLITE DEPORTMENT. 

message is the height of ill-manners on the part of the 
caller. 

In making a morning call a gentleman should take hat 
and gloves with him into the parlor, but not his umbrella or 
his overshoes, and he should not remove his overcoat. In 
an evening call, all wraps, etc., should be left in the hall. 
While waiting for the person on whom you have called it is 
not right to walk about, examining pictures and other 
articles. A morning call should always be short, and one 
should not enter upon a subject of conversation which may 
terrify the hostess with the apprehension that you intend to 
remain until you have exhausted it. 

In calling on a newly married couple, do not congratulate 
the lady upon her marriage, but the bridegroom. He, of 
course, is fortunate in having found any one to accept him ; 
her good luck may be more problematical. A visit to a 
newly married couple is not a visit of condolence. Be brisk 
in your manner, therefore ; wear a smile ; and if there be a 
feeling of pity at your heart, do your utmost to prevent its 
outward manifestation. 

When ready to leave, arise and go. Do not linger and 
talk and act as if you wished you had not started. Make 
your adieus and depart at once — yet not in haste. If there 
are other callers, bow to them collectively. 

After a party or dinner at a friend's house you should call 
within a week thereafter. 

VISITING. 

Visiting is a privilege that is often abused. Only firm 
friendship can justify it. One should not be too fast to ac- 
cept an invitation — certainly not a mere " come and see us 
some time." Be sure that you are really wanted, and do 
not prolong your stay until your welcome is clean worn out. 
During a visit one should conform very strictly to the usual 
habits of the house, always being on hand and ready at the 



rOLITE DETORTMENT. 209 

usual times for meals, and never keep the family up after 
their usual time for retiring. If unpleasant matters apoear 
they should not be noticed, and in general one's presence 
ought to be the least possible occasion of trouble. Upon 
returning home, the family should receive a pleasant letter, 
renewing expressions of pleasure given when about to take 
leave of the hostess. 

VISITING-CARDS. 

As cards have so important a place in etiquette, it will be 
well to consult a reliable stationer as to styles in order to 
avoid mistakes. The neat round-hand and angular script 
has of late taken the place of old English type on cards. 
Only the name should be on a card. A business card never 
should be used for a friendly call. A physician may put 
" Dr." or " M. D." in addition to his name, and an Army or 
Navy officer his rank and branch of service. 

In case a card is left in person when making a call, one 
corner should be turned down if for the lady of the house ; 
if folded in the middle, it will indicate that the call is on 
several members of the family. A card should be left for 
each guest of the family. 

" P. P. C." (Pour prendre conge) should be written in one 
corner of a card left at a farewell visit, before a protracted 
absence. Such cards may be sent by mail. Ladies about 
to be married sometimes send them in place of making a 
call. 

An expert in the science of good manners has recently 
spoken thus on visiting-cards : " Care should be taken to 
conform with present usage and to avoid anything con- 
sidered to be in questionable taste, for a card is the repre- 
sentative of one's-self. To the unrefined or underbred 
person the visiting-card is but a trifling and insignificant 
piece of paper ; but to the cultured disciple of social law it 
conveys a subtle and unmistakable intelligence. Its texture, 



210 



POLITE DEPORTMENT. 



style of engraving, and even the hour of leaving it, combine 
to place the stranger whose name it bears in a pleasant or a 
disagreeable attitude — even before his manners, conversa 
tion, and face have been able to explain his social position. 
The higher the civilization of a community, the more careful 
it is to preserve the elegance of its social forms. It is quite 
as easy to express a perfect breeding in the fashionable for- 
malities of cards as by any other method, and perhaps, 
indeed, it is the safest herald of an invitation for a stranger. 
Its texture should be fine, its engraving a plain script, its 
size neither too small, so that its recipients shall say to 
themselves, ' A whimsical person,' nor too large, to suggest 
ostentation. Refinement seldom touches extremes in any- 



thing." 



RECEPTIONS. 



Receptions usually occur from four to seven in the after- 
noon, when light refreshments are served. Invitations to 
them are usually informal. If " R. S. V. P." is on a corner 
of such invitation it is proper to send answer. Otherwise, 
no answer is required. All who are invited are expected to 
call soon afterward — within two weeks at most. Invitations 
are generally issued in the name of the lady of the house, 
and are usually engraved in the lower left-hand corner of 
her visiting-card — thus : 



Mrs. John Thomasson. 



Thursday , February third. 

Tea at Four o'clock. 



io Trafalgar Place. 



POLITE DEPORTMENT. 211 

If assisted by a daughter or a friend, the name of such 
assistant is engraved below her own on the card. Some- 
times the cards are larger and in the following form : 



Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Jackson, 
AT HOME, 

Thursday, December sixth, 

From Three until Seven o'clock. 150 Tremont Ave. 



These cards, now used in square form, should be inclosed 
in two envelopes when sent by mail. If delivered by mes- 
senger, one inclosure is sufficient. 

DINNERS. 

The Etiquette of Dinners is worthy of more space than 
we can give to it. When an invited guest, be sure not to 
be late. It would be a wrong to your host, to other guests, 
and to the dinner. Persons invited should be of the same 
standing in society, though not necessarily acquaintances. * 
Invitations should be in the name of the gentleman and 
lady of the house, and should be issued at least a week in 
advance. They should be answered immediately, in order 
that the hosts may know who are to be their guests. When 
an engagement has been made it should be kept, if at all 
possible. It is not proper to invite a gentleman without 
his wife, or vice versa, unless it be an occasion when gen- * 
tlemen alone are to be present. The usual time for dinners 
is from five to eight o'clock. 

A dinner-table is said to be laid for so many " covers.'* 



212 POLITE DEPORTMENT. 

A " cover " comprises : Two large knives ; three large forks -, 
silver knife and fork for fish; tablespoon for soup; wine- 
glass for sherry ; wine-glass for hock ; wine-glass for cham- 
pagne. Where wines are not used, of course the glasses 
are omitted. In the centre, between the knives and forks, 
is placed the dinner-bread wrapped up in a serviette. The 
dessertspoons and small forks are placed before the guests 
on an empty plate before the sweets are passed around, and 
extra knives and forks are supplied as they are required. 

In the main things of a dinner, the fillet and roast, there 
is little change, but in minor things the caterer rules. To 
begin with oysters, five, not six, is now the fashionable num- 
ber for the half shells. At formal dinners it is the invariable 
rule that ladies and gentlemen should be seated alternately, 
never allowing two ladies or two gentlemen to sit together. 
At dinners of eight, twelve, or sixteen persons, this can be 
managed only by putting gentlemen at both ends of the 
table. Hostesses generally have a prejudice against giving 
up their customary seat, forgetting the old saying : " Where 
the Douglas sits, there is the head of the table," and avoid 
the awkward number. 

When there are more ladies than gentlemen at the din- 
ner-party, the hostess should go down alone, and leave the 
gentleman of highest rank to take down the lady of second 
rank ; in this case the gentleman will place himself at table 
on the right of the hostess. In passing from the drawing- 
room to the dining-room, remember that it is the lady who 
takes precedence, not the gentleman. 

A gentleman must help the lady whom he has escorted 
to the table, but it is not proper to offer his help to other 
ladies who have escorts. If the guests pass the dishes, 
always help yourself before handing to the next. If at 
dinner you are requested to help any one to sauce, do not 
pour it over the meat or vegetables, but on one side. It 
you should have to carve and help a joint, do not load a 



POLITE DEPORTMENT. 213 

person's plate — it is vulgar; also, in serving soup, one 
ladleful to each plate is sufficient. 

Conversation at the table should be participated in by all, 
and should include only such subjects as will be agreeable 
to all. It is rudeness for one or two to monopolize the 
talking, and centre upon themselves a general attention. 

When the guests have finished, the hostess can indicate, 
by rising, the time for departure from the table, when the 
return to the drawing-room can be in the order in which 
they are seated without regard to preference. 

AFTER DINNER. 

An hour or more of social intercourse will follow. It 
will be well if some of the company are musicians. In 
case one is invited to sing or play there should be graceful 
compliance, but it is not well to sing or play more than one 
piece unless specially urged. It is better not to risk boring 
the company with your performance, however good it may 
be. When people are singing, do them the courtesy of 
listening, or pretending to listen. If you do not like music 
yourself, remember that others may. Besides, when a per- 
son is endeavoring to entertain you, the least you can do is 
to show your gratitude for the intention. 

Upon taking leave, express pleasure to the host and hos- 
tess, but do not offer thanks in any case. A call should be 
made soon afterward. 

Dinner cards are so useful that they will not soon go out 
of fashion. The shops are full of them, and beautiful ones 
are coming over from Paris. Of a dozen recently used the 
owner said : " They cost almost as much as a dress." 
Each fan was painted and signed by a well-known artist, 
and bore the name of a guest. They suggested the lavish- 
ness of Lucullus in ancier.t times, and in modern that 
famous bonanza banquet in San Francisco, where every 
I idy's dinner card was a point lace handkerchief. 



214 POLITE DEPORTMENT. 

MARRIAGE ANNIVERSARIES. 

Marriage anniversaries are popularly designated as fol- 
lows : 

First Anniversary, Paper Wedding. 

Second " Cotton 

Third " Leather " 

Fifth ". Wooden " 

Tenth " ..... Tin 

Fifteenth " Crystal " 

Twentieth " Floral " 

Twenty-fifth" Silver " 

Thirtieth " ..... Pearl " 

Thirty-fifth " China k " 

Fortieth " Coral " 

Forty-fifth " ..... Bronze " 

Fiftieth " Golden " 

Sixtieth " Diamond " 

It is proper to say that some of these, in the preceding 
list, are not often celebrated. Cards of wood, tin, etc., are no 
longer used, the invitations being issued on square white 
cards or note sheets, in plain, neat script. The words " No 
Gifts," are often engraved in the lower left-hand corner of 
the invitation. The ceremonies on such occasions are some- 
what according to the taste and desire of the parties and 
the length of time they may have been married. The ear- 
lier occasions afford opportunities for merriment ; the later 
ones, for the deeper emotions, mingled with pleasure and 
satisfaction. 

COURTSHIP. 

With regard to courtship, it may briefly be said that its 
freedom should not be abused by license, and that the par- 
ties ought to regard each other sacredly if their troth is 
plighted. 



POLITE DEPORTMENT. 215 

Upon engagement, the gentleman presents the lady with 
a ring, to be worn on the third finger of the right hand. 
While engaged, neither party should be occupied in flirta- 
tions with the opposite sex, yet both should reasonably 
mingle in society. The gentleman is always thereafter the 
legitimate escort of the lady and should not devote himself 
in any marked manner to any other lady. 

Society wisely discourages all conspicuous manifestations 
of personal feeling. Lovers are not expected to " make 
love " in public, nor married couples to afford extravagant 
evidence of conjugal tenderness ; and the sincerity of the 
affection may reasonably be doubted which parades itself in 
public. When our hearts are deeply moved we do not take 
the world into our confidence. On the other hand, constant 
bickering and bantering between husband and wife in public 
is equally objectionable, even though it be only " in fun." 

WEDDINGS. 

The etiquette of weddings varies greatly according to 
circumstances. After invitations are issued the lady does 
not appear in public. The invitations should be handsomely 
engraved. Any reputable stationer will be able to suggest 
the proper forms and styles. The invitations are engraved 
in the name of the father and mother of the bride, or if 
neither are living, then in the name of her guardian or near- 
est relation. 

The forms and ceremonies of weddings are generally in 
accordance with the wishes of the bride. But, whether the 
wedding ceremonies be at home or in church, a beautiful 
simplicity is certainly more pleasing than an ostentatious 

display. 

PUBLIC PLACES. 

Proper regard is necessary to the rules of polite deport- 
ment in public places. Let your walk in life be distinguished 
by unassuming grace. Look from your window and observe 



216 POLITE DEPORTMENT. 

the gait of the passers-by. You will see at once " what to 
avoid " — the tread of the grenadier, the clumsy shuffle, the 
dancing-master's trip, the heel-and-toe movement, the pre- 
tentious slide. But it is easier to know what to avoid than 
what to imitate. Perhaps imitation is not advisable, and the 
chief thing to remember is that you should walk as if your 
body had a soul in it. Virgil tells us of Juno that you saw 
the goddess in her gait, and " grace in her steps " is one of 
the characteristics of Milton's " Eve." 

Observation, which, " with extensive view, surveys man- 
kind from China to Peru," shows that in the country gentle- 
men do not offer their arm to ladies, but in large towns this 
should be done as a measure of protection and a token of 
respect. 

When you meet a friend in the street it must depend on 
your degree of intimacy whether you walk with him or not ; 
but with a lady you must not walk, unless she directly or 
indirectly invite you. 

Gentlemen do not take off their hats to one another; this 
is a courtesy reserved for the ladies. Gentlemen generally 
recognize each other with a nod. If you pass an acquaint- 
ance with a lady on his arm, do not nod; take off your hat, 
so that your salute may seem to embrace both your friend 
and the lady. In bowing to a lady in the street, lift your 
hat right off your head. Don't allow her to suppose that 
you wear a wig and are afraid to disarrange it. If you pass 
a friend with a lady whom you do not know, you must lift 
your hat to him and not nod. 

Should you tread upon or stumble against any one, do 
not fail to make immediate apology. Of course, you will 
not stare at nor point to people, nor carry umbrella or cane 
horizontally under your arm. Neither will you stop a lady 
on the street to talk with her. Turn and walk with her, 
rather, and lift your hat to her when you have finished the 
conversation and are about to leave her. 



POLITE DEPORTMENT. 217 

It is very rude to rush for a seat in a car or at a public 
entertainment. Better lose some comfort than be guilty of 
impoliteness. It is equally wrong to occupy more space 
than you are entitled to in a public conveyance ; and when 
at a place of amusement to disturb others by your conver- 
sation or remarks while the performance is going on is 
gross ill-breeding. A polite person will always have regard 
for the comfort of those who are near. 

In public halls a gentleman should precede the lady 
whose escort he is, unless there is an usher preceding them. 
He should give her the inner seat and remain by her side. 
He is under no obligation to give up his seat to another 
lady and should avoid everything that might attract notice 
to himself or his companion. 

In church there should always be deference and respect 
to the worshipers, whether or not you agree with them. 
Stay away if you cannot be respectful and attentive to the 
services. It is not right to go late, to the possible disturb- 
ance of the worship. It is rude to turn around and gaze at 
any one, to watch people coming in with critical glances, to 
talk or laugh, and so disturb others, or to leave until the 
dismission. 

TRAVELING. 

In our country almost every one travels, and a few hints 
will be serviceable to those who may not have traveled a 
great deal. Always keep your head and arms inside the 
car window. Remember that it is not necessary to be in- 
trusive in order to be polite. Take your time in getting on 
or off the cars ; nothing is gained by haste. Avoid being 
boisterous and do not try to make yourself conspicuous, 
Never disclose your business to the stranger in whose cam-? 
pany you may happen to be. 

Bear in mind that the comfort of others should be taken 
into consideration when you travel. Your open window 
may be a source of great annoyance and discomfort to your 



218 POLITE DEPORTMENT. 

neighbors. Do not litter the seat you occupy with boxes 
and bundles to exclude other passengers from sharing with 
you the accommodation it affords. Respectfully decline 
any and all invitations extended by strangers with whom 
you are brought in contact to indulge in social games of 
cards. Do not ask the conductor foolish questions about 
the route ; remember that he is not familiar with the run- 
ning-time of all the roads in the United States. Do not 
address a lady who is unknown to you, unless she invite it. 
You may offer her your newspaper with a silent bow. An 
" unprotected " lady ought to call forth a gentleman's finest 
chivalry. 

If you have made some slight acquaintance with a lady 
in a railway carriage, you must not presume upon that to 
bow or speak to her at any accidental rencontre, unless she 
makes the first advances. 

Discretion should be used in forming acquaintances while 
traveling. Ladies may accept small and proper attentions, 
but any attempt at familiarity should be checked at once. 
A true gentleman will not offer any familiarity. The flirt- 
ing and freedom often indulged in by young people in public 
conveyances is unworthy of them — if, indeed, it does not 
indicate low breeding, and often leads to evil consequences. 
Whether at home or abroad, the same rules of good be- 
havior should prevail. 

CORRESPONDENCE. 

Correspondence is the medium by which people com- 
municate with each other when, for any reason, they cannot 
readily speak face to face. It should be characterized by 
the same politeness that marks the gentleman or lady in any 
relation of life. It will generally indicate character with 
considerable precision, unless there is studied concealment 
for a purpose. " It is as great a violation of propriety to 
send a carelessly prepared and badly written letter as it is to 



POLITE DEPORTMENT. 219 

appear in the company of refined people with swaggering 
gait, soiled linen, and unkempt hair." It is at least a ques- 
tionable compliment to a friend to send a letter written with 
very pale ink, or with lines crossed and indistinct, or with 
other evidences of disregard of the objects which you are 
supposed to have had in mind when writing — namely, to 
communicate information in a pleasant way. It is not in 
taste for you to use postal cards, except on mere matters of 
business. When used, there is no need of any address, ex- 
cept upon the address side. You may omit the usual 
formalities of salutation in your communication, giving the 
post office and date at the top, and simply sign your name 
at the bottom. Postal cards never should be used for any 
matters that are in the least degree confidential. 

Private and personal letters should never be written on 
foolscap paper. What is known as " Commercial Note " is 
generally used by gentlemen, and a smaller size by ladies. 
Either ruled or plain paper is allowable, but the latter is 
deemed more in style. Envelopes should correspond with 
the paper used, and should always be of a light color, when 
ladies are addressed. Business letters are almost uniformly 
written on half-sheets, but for a social letter a whole sheet 
should always be used, though only a portion be occupied. 
The writing should be plain, without flourishes, and be con- 
tinuous to the close without skipping a page. The inside 
address, following the date, should be such as the party 
named is entitled to receive, and the salutation such as is jus- 
tified by the personal relations of the writer. Business let- 
ters generally begin with Sir, Dear Sir, Sirs, or Gentlemen. 
Do not use " Gents " for gentlemen, nor " Dr." for dear. 
For a letter addressed to a married woman, or a single 
woman not young, the proper salutation is Madam, Dear 
Madam, or My dear Madam. Business letters to a young 
unmarried lady do not require any salutation, the name alone 
being regarded as sufficient 



2%0 POLITE DEPORTMENT. 

When your letter is written, it requires a respectful or 
affectionate conclusion and the signature. Business letters 
are generally closed with Yours, Yours truly, or Yours re- 
spectfully. Social letters admit of a great variety of forms, 
according to the taste and feelings of the writer. Whatever 
else may be wanting in clearness, the signature should be 
plain, so that there may not be any chance for mistake in 
replying. It is proper and desirable that " Miss " or " Mrs." 
be prefixed to your signature when writing to strangers, 
that there may not be any doubt as to the manner of 
addressing a reply. 

When completed, your letter should be neatly and care- 
fully folded, so that the edges will be exactly even, and 
inclosed in the envelope prepared for it by a proper outside 
address or superscription. The proper place for the postage 
stamp is the upper right-hand corner, and the stamp should 
be affixed squarely and head up. Postage should be fully 
paid. 

A letter should always have prompt reply. It is real 
incivility not to do so, especially if there be anything which 
specially calls for answer, and in beginning a reply the re- 
ception of the letter should be acknowledged, as a rule, in 
the first sentence. If for any reason a further correspon- 
dence is not desired, care should be taken to so write that 
there will not be anything calling for answer. It is well 
always to remember that your letter may sometime get into 
print without your knowledge or consent, therefore do not 
write a word that would bring a blush to your face if read 
by the world. 

NOTES. 

Notes may be considered as differing from letters in being 
more formal, in being generally written in the third person, 
and being without signature. They are used for announce- 
ments, invitations, anniversaries, acceptances, regrets, and 
the like. For weddings, receptions, and other ceremonious 




POLITE DEPORTMENT. 221 

occasions, your stationer will tell you the prevailing style. 
For acceptances and regrets, which should always be 
promptly made, the following models will suffice. They 
may be varied to suit the occasion and the relations of the 
parties : 

ACCEPTANCE. 
€^ie -£-2-2- rt-cc^j/zt^itz <fin,e ■/ztw,€Z t^2^&£a-fc&<K, -erf 

a ( 

REGRET. 







t*ew 



& -fa^et'-i -e^c^eAuz^t^e ^/{^/Tf^^ *&fe& / l<&& s 

f ( 

NOTES OF INTRODUCTION. 

Notes of introduction should be brief, and contain the 
full name and address of the person introduced. For busi- 
ness purposes they are often used, but the receiver is not 



222 POLITE DEPORTMENT. 

required to entertain the bearer as a friend unless entirely 
agreeable. The obligation ceases with the transaction of 
the business in hand. A business introduction is delivered 
in person. The envelope containing it should not be sealed, 
and on its left-hand lower corner should be written the 

words, " Introducing Mr. ," that its character may 

command immediate attention. No pecuniary obligation is 
incurred by such an introduction, unless particularly men- 
tioned. The conventional form is more or less as follows : 



'#'24* 



(&*4^, sjh^T /cf ^ y ^ 3 ' 




7 €dd4d. (Z^AA^-atid-'M, fc c &<?-. 



-CX 4z>a^e 'P^-e -f^fe^ 






^-^z^^/^^^ -fa -vftPt-M- -/v-tsn-d &£le>?&fc044d '. 

Introductions should only be given when there is perfect 
confidence felt in the party introduced. It is right to refuse 
such a favor, if thought best, merely on the ground of un- 
willingness to take the liberty of presenting any one to the 
person or firm to whom introduction is asked. 

A social introduction should be given with great caution. 
The writer should be well acquainted with both parties. Be 



POLITE DEPORTMENT. 223 

specially careful in making introductions to ladies. It is an 
insult to the whole sex if you present to a lady any person 
of doubtful reputation. Never give letters of introduction, 
unless you are prepared to be responsible for the persons to 
whom they are given. Why should you thrust upon the 
society of a friend those whom you would not admit to your 
own ? Or why ask his good services for individuals whom 
you know do not deserve them ? 

In all such letters candor should prevail. Say what you 
mean. Do not use ambiguous terms which leave a pleasant 
impression on the reader, but awaken a measure of confi- 
dence and generous purpose beyond what you intended. 
Whatever object is proposed in giving the letter should be 
distinctly stated, even though it be that you give it simply 
to rid yourself of a bore. If you know nothing of a party, 
but desire to get him employment, or some such favor, 
state the facts, though you defeat the purpose. 

The holder of a social letter of introduction should not 
take it in person, but should send it with his card of address. 
The receiver, if he be a gentleman, will call upon you with- 
out delay. At all events, you are bound to give him an 
option ; whereas, by taking your letter in person you force 
yourself upon him, whether he will or not. Should the 
letter introduce a gentleman to a lady, she may, at her op- 
tion, answer by a note of invitation— appointing a time for 

him to call. 

All polite deportment is based upon common sense. It 
is not the prerogative of the privileged and favored few, but 
it is the right and the duty of all. Not one of its require- 
ments is useless if the comfort and welfare of our friends and 
associates be properly considered. The springs of politeness 
must be within. If one has learned to correct personal 
faults, to control self, and to be regardful of others, he has 
gone a long way toward that refinement of nature which 
will make him everywhere a welcome and honored guest. 



224 POLITE DEPORTMENT. 

If in the sanctity of home he lives in obedience to these prin- 
ciples, he will not be likely to ignore them when in the society 
of others ; and when in public places or engaged in corres- 
pondence, it will be as natural for him to be well-mannered 
and self-poised as it is for the thriving plant to drink in the 
morning dew. If it is worth while to have keen enjoyment 
of life — to win and to retain friends, and to make society- 
better by our correct life in the midst of it — then it is no loss 
of time, but a gain in every direction, to understand and 
practice all that is included in Polite Deportment. 



FIFTH DEPARTMENT. 



Care of Children, 



O child ! O new-born denizen 

Of life's great city ! on thy head 

The glory of the morn is shed 
Like a celestial benizon ! 
Here at the portal thou dost stand, 

And with thy little hand 

Thou openest the mysterious gate 
Into the future's undiscovered land. 

Longfellow 



Care of Children. 



By W. B. Atkinson, M. D., Lecturer on Diseases of 
Children, Jefferson Medical College, Phila. 



FROM the moment of birth it should be remembered 
that the infant is a being of feeble powers ; that while 
it possesses a wonderful vitality, yet that vitality is 
readily extinguished or impaired. Such impairment often 
remains through life, rendering it a delicate, or perhaps 
deformed, creature, liable to succumb to the most trivial 
attacks of disease. 

HEREDITARY INFLUENCES. 

Whereas the child born of healthy parents, and that has 
been reared under proper surroundings, is prepared to resist 
the usual diseases of child-life, and if it is attacked, rarely 
fails to have a mild form, from which it recovers perfectly. 
For instance, the child of scrofulous, or otherwise diseased 
parents, when exposed to scarlet fever usually has a bad 
form of the disease and recovers imperfectly, being left with 
running from the ears, or even deafness, or other of the 
common results of this disease. Even where the parentage 
of a child is tainted much may be done to make it better in 
health and less liable to continue the taint in its own person, 
and subsequently to transmit it in time to its offspring. 

227 



228 CARE OF CHILDREN. 

FIRST CARE OF A CHILD. 

At the outset let it be understood that the so-called 
hardening of an infant by exposure, by cold bathing, by a 
prescribed diet, and other such plans is not only a failure, 
but frequently itself is the cause of the beginning of disease 
in an otherwise healthy infant. A new-born child, coming 
as it does from a position in which the temperature has been 
never less than that of the human body internally (98.5 °F.), 
is extremely liable, especially in cold weather, to lose its 
vital heat. Hence, it should not be washed in cold water, 
or, in fact, for the first twenty-four or forty-eight hours, in 
water at all. The best method is to cleanse its surface by 
rubbing the skin with pure, fresh lard or sweet oil. This 
unites readily with the cheesy matter usually found to a 
greater or less extent on the skin of a new-born child ; then, 
with a dry, soft cotton cloth the whole surface is readily 
cleansed. Where blood or other stain still adheres, the 
cloth may be moistened with warm water, and thus the sur- 
face is thoroughly cleansed. The use of water, and particu- 
larly of soap, is objectionable for several reasons. 

Soap — as often found in the sick-room — is made of impure 
fats, which often have a poisonous effect, or it may have an 
excess of alkali, either of which conditions is injurious to 
the delicate cutaneous surface of the child. Again, the 
soapy water usually gets into the child's eyes, resulting in 
more or less inflammation of these delicate organs. Wash- 
ing, unless when performed in a gentle manner, removes 
more or less thoroughly the natural oil of the skin, causing 
chafing, and also giving rise to many forms of eruption so 
often seen in the young infant. At all times the surface 
should be cleansed with care and gentleness. When soap 
becomes absolutely necessary in order to remove dirt, it 
should be of the best quality and used sparingly. The 
temperature of the water should be about that of the blood 
*— say 95 — and the child not too long exposed in cool 



CAKE OF CHILDREN. 229 

weather, lest its surface be chilled and a congestion of some 
of the internal organs occur. Bathing is always valuable, 
not only for the purposes of cleanliness, but also to keep 
the numerous pores of the skin in a condition to do their 
work. The water should be sufficiently warm to prevent 
the child suffering a chill, and the bath must be given in a 
situation not exposed to a draught, the whole surface to be 
rubbed dry with a soft towel. 

SUITABLE CLOTHING. 

The clothing for the very young child should be loose — 
tied rather than pinned — and in cold weather should com- 
pletely cover its body up well around the neck, the arms 
to the wrists, and the legs and feet. Much damage is done 
by the foolish habit of exposing children in cool or cold 
weather — even in the house — with short sleeves, low-necked 
dress, and legs bare above the knees. It must be borne in 
mind that the blood in the extremities is readily chilled, and 
by this means cholera-infantum and dysentery in summer, 
and the colds and other affections of winter, are brought on. 
In hot weather a young child may usually be allowed to lie 
on a blanket or comfortable on the floor, unencumbered 
with much clothing, a light, soft slip being all that is 
required, and the only care being to avoid a draught. Here 
it can roll in every direction and move every muscle without 
hindrance. 

While upon the subject of the child's clothing we may 
properly urge the importance of keeping the child outside 
the bonds imposed by fashion as long as it is possible. 
Have everything to fit easily and loosely ; give it free scope 
for every movement, that motion may be a pleasure, not a 
pain. Especially see that the foot — usually so perfect and 
handsome at birth — is not confined, cramped in a shoe too 
narrow, and, almost invariably, too short for it. This point 
is one of the greatest value, as children grow so rapidly that 



230 CARE OF CHILDREN^ 

frequently we find a shoe but little worn has already become 
too short Here economy urges many to do a great wrong, 
for the use of a shoe too short for the foot compels nature, 
in its efforts to find room for the lengthening toes, to bend 
them over each other, and thus is produced that hideous 
and laming deformity — a foot with enlarged joints, with 
bunions, and with overlapping toes. Such a foot becomes 
a constant source of misery to its owner who is compelled 
to walk much. Even in hot weather it is safer for a chiid 
to wear next to its skin a soft merino shirt. The infant 
should wear its flannel band, covering its body from the 
armpits to the groins, until it is able to run about. This 
needs to be applied neatly and carefully, or it becomes a 
mere girdle about the middle of the child. In warm weather 
this band should be made of soft, light flannel, which may 
be made somewhat heavier as the cool weather of fall 
approaches. 

The special value of this band is that it prevents chilling 
of the bowels, almost always the cause of cholera-infantum 
and other bowel affections. As the child becomes older — 
particularly in girls — must we urge the necessity of the 
avoidance of tight bands around the waist by which the 
skirts are supported, dragging constantly on the hips, com- 
pressing the abdomen, and thus forcing the internal organs 
out of their places. The wonderful prevalence of backache, 
sense of weariness after the shortest walk, and a host of ills 
in our female patients, may undoubtedly be traced to this 
as the commencement — aided, subsequently, by immense 
loads of skirts, late hours, neglect of the proper care, and 
the usual habits incident to fashionable life. Nor must we 
forget the support of the stockings. Garters are a constant 
injury, as they are generally worn. They compress the 
entire limb and markedly interfere with the circulation of 
the blood. Many cases of varicose veins are wholly due to 
this habit. 



CARE OF CHILDREN. 231 

SUITABLE FOOD. 

The food of the child from the outset must be either that 
provided by nature, the mother's milk, or something as 
nearly approaching it as may be. The young mother, the 
nurse — all, should be cautioned never to feed the child with 
anything at birth. It should be well understood that this 
is best for several reasons. All such trash as sugar or 
molasses and water, or any of the many abominations usually 
given to the new-born child with the erroneous belief that 
it must be hungry, and hence requires food, tends to cause 
indigestion, and produces wind in the stomach and bowels. 
This induces the child to cry with pain, and it is either fed 
with more of the stuff, under the belief that it is still hungry, 
or, worse, it is dosed with " soothing drops " to relieve its 
pain, and a new source of injury is added. Let me say here 
that no drops, cordials, sirups, or anything in the shape of 
drugs should be given, especially to a young child, without 
the advice of a physician. On this subject we shall speak 
more fully subsequently. 

Let us suppose, for the sake of illustration, that the mother 
has a good flow of milk and the child nurses well. It is 
necessary that she should endeavor to so form its habits 
that it shall at first take the breast about once in every two 
hours, or a little longer, during the day, and about once in 
four to six hours at night. The child is greatly the crea- 
ture of habit, and where the mother begins to put it to the 
breast at every cry, or whenever it rouses, it speedily 
acquires the custom of demanding the breast constantly. 
Indeed, some mothers will lie at night with the infant on the 
arm, so that it virtually sleeps with the nipple in its mouth. 
In such cases the child refuses to submit to any other plan 
and becomes a constant annoyance until it is weaned. As 
it becomes older, the interval between the nursings should 
be lengthened, so that it is suckled once in four to six hours 
and at night generally will go without till the hour for 



232 CARE OF CHILDREN. 

rising has come. The food should be wholly the breast* 
milk or its equivalent until the child has advanced so far 
with its teeth as to be fully able to chew the food thoroughly. 
Nor even then need much change be made ; for long after 
weaning the best food is that into which milk largely enters. 
Too much of a variety is hurtful to a young child. As 
children grow, or should grow, rapidly, and require frequent 
supplies to make up for the wear of, as well as the increase 
in, the body, they should always be supplied with good, 
nourishing food whenever they express a feeling of hunger. 
It is not well to endeavor to restrict such to the exact num- 
ber and hours for meals, as in adult life. 

VALUE OF SUNSHINE. 

Not less important is an abundance of sunlight and fresh 
air. The effects upon plant life of the absence of sunlight 
is shown by the plant growing thin, pale, delicate ; in fact, 
this is made use of by gardeners to procure tender white 
stalks, as of celery, etc. Abundance of illustrations will 
readily occur to the thoughtful of the vicious effects of a 
want of sunlight. This is one of the most valuable results 
accruing by the transfer of an invalid to the sea-shore, the 
mountains, or to the country farm. We may contrast the 
pale, delicate appearance of those members of an otherwise 
healthy family who are compelled to remain all day long, 
and day after day, in the small house shut in from the sun's 
rays by its overshadowing neighbors, with those whose 
occupation compels them to be abroad. 

Of course, the author would not be understood as advising 
exposure to the direct, fierce rays of the sun in midsum- 
mer. It is its light, rather than its excess of heat, that does 
the good, that increases the vitality of the little one. That 
this does not seem by a great number of people to be re- 
garded as of value is shown by their utter neglect of it, in 
permitting windows to be blocked up by furniture, old hats, 



CARE OF CHILDREN. 233 

clothing, and even dirt. Here cleanliness acts in more ways 
than might at first be anticipated. Therefore, make the 
nursery a light, cheerful room. Use only sufficient curtains 
to prevent the direct rays from being an annoyance. Cur- 
tains should be such as can readily be removed, and so dis- 
posed as to afford the smallest opportunity for the accumu- 
lation of dust; for where such accumulation occurs is 
most likely to be the nest for a deposit of disease germs. 

GOOD VENTILATION. 

Full and free ventilation must always form a part of the 
means by which we prevent disease, as well as fight it after 
it has entered. Like sunlight, fresh air is a most valuable 
factor in health, and its deprivation equally one in disease. 
The air of every part of a house should be thoroughly 
changed so soon as the inmates rise in the morning and 
throw open the dwelling. The bed-room windows, save in 
extremely cold or wet weather, should be widely opened, 
and so remain till near nightfall. The living, or work-rooms, 
should equally be cared for. In the sick-room or nursery 
the air can be readily changed from time to time by pro- 
tecting the inmates from the draught. Cover the child, 
head and all, in cold weather, and open the doors and win- 
dows to their fullest extent for a few minutes. Where the 
air does not enter freely and drive out that which is vitiated, 
thorough ventilation may be obtained by swinging the door 
to and fro, shaking the curtains, or some similar plan. For- 
tunately, we find the fresh air from the unlimited reservoir 
without is ready to enter and drive out the disease-laden 
air of the room. At the same time, it must be understood 
that cold air is not always pure air. The fire may be main- 
tained while this is going on, so that the temperature is not 
lowered beyond the degree of comfort. Now that ther- 
mometers of a good quality can be obtained so cheaply, 
every sick-room at least should have one as an indispensa- 



234 CARE OF CHILDREN. 

ble article of furniture. By its readings, the temperature 
should be carefully observed, so that a moderate and even 
degree of heat can be secured. 

While we enforce the importance of pure air to children, 
it becomes an imperative duty to allude strongly to the 
vitiation of the air. While in the streets of a large city, 
and even in other localities, circumstances often greatly in* 
terfere with our efforts in this behalf, yet we constantly see 
an unnecessary, even criminal, carelessness in such matters. 
The dejections of all kinds are frequently permitted to re- 
main in the rooms during the greater part of the day. 
When possible, especially in cases of contagious diseases, 
these should not only be removed at once, but disinfectants 
should be mixed with them, thus aiding greatly in prevent- 
ing the spread of disease. A great cause of impure air is 
the constant use of tobacco in the house. To all whose 
sensibility of smell is not blunted by their habits, the stale 
fumes of tobacco adhering to the clothes, the curtains, the 
furniture, are disagreeable. We may be regarded as speak- 
ing strongly on this point, but during an experience, largely 
among children, for over thirty years, we can recall numer- 
ous cases of the use of tobacco by the bedside, and actually 
in the faces, of sick and dying children ; of many instances 
of sudden illness in infants brought on by the inhalation of 
tobacco smoke. A little care and thoughtfulness aids 
greatly in keeping the air of a house pure. Thus, never let 
a poultice, a mustard, or other application remain in the 
room. Air the rooms well after cooking, after meals, after 
the exit of a filthy person. In short, when one enters a 
room from the outer fresh air and detects a strange odor 
there, such a room should be thoroughly ventilated as soon 
as possible. Warmth, not only by clothing, but by heat, as 
from a fire, is imperatively demanded for children in cold 
and damp weather. The child that expresses a sense of 
chilliness, that shivers, is sick or on the verge of sickness. 



CARE OF CHILDREN. 235 

TREATMENT OF AILINGS. 

When the child appears in any way to be " out of sorts " 
do not rush at once to drugs. Remember, that in many in- 
stances a calm, refreshing sleep, a few hours of rest, will 
find an apparently very sick child again playing with its 
toys and as happy as though nothing had occurred. All 
are too much in the habit of accepting the gratuitous advice 
of those around them — advice from those who possess not 
the slightest knowledge of medicine. Let it be a fixed rule 
never to give any medicine without the advice of a skilled 
physician. See what can be done by sanitary regulations, 
by removing the causes of disease, by change of locality. 
Constantly are young children made ill by bad air, bad or 
deficient food, and bad drinks. In this connection, for the 
sake of the over-anxious parents who often wildly aban- 
don hope at the slightest sign of disease, and regard the 
child as doomed to die at the outset, we would say that the 
strong power constantly shown in a child by which it throws 
off an attack of disease and recuperates its exhausted 
powers, often seems as though the result of miraculous in- 
tervention. Hence, when sickness appears, no matter how 
terrible its form, however doubtful may appear the result, 
preserve to the end courage and cheerfulness. These aid 
constantly in obtaining the wished-for relief. The nursing 
is performed faithfully, the child is not dispirited — in short, 
you thus avoid that injurious condition where, hope being 
banished from the outset, it would seem as though the first 
sign of illness were equivalent to a funeral notice and only 
the forms had to be complied with. A woman who is nurs- 
ing a child should always remember that her milk is ex- 
tremely liable to be rendered injurious to her infant by 
what might seem to her to be but trifling matters. She 
gives way to her temper, her grief ; she exhausts herself by 
labor ; she indulges in improper food, and the next act of 



236 CARE OF CHILDREN. 

suckling is sure to be followed by disorder in some way of 
the child's system. 

The author has seen in his own practice several marked 
instances of convulsions in the infant to follow immediately 
after it had begun to draw the milk from the breast of its 
mother who had just been having a scolding match with a 
neighbor. In one instance, the mother had been engaged 
in washing clothing for several hours, during which time the 
infant had not been allowed any nourishment. Finally, 
having completed her task, she sat down, greatly wearied, 
to nurse the child. Almost as soon as the first of the milk 
had entered its stomach, it fell into a profound stupor, from 
which it was with great difficulty aroused. There are 
other points in connection with the matter of nursing of 
equal, perhaps greater, importance, but their consideration 
does not belong to a volume like this. 

BAD HABITS. 

From the earliest hours the mother should esteem it a 
privilege as well as a duty to guard her child by the utmost 
vigilance from the acquiring of bad habits. Any habit in 
the child becomes so rooted — so much a part of its exist- 
ence — that in after years it is virtually impossible to abolish 
it. We need not specify such habits, for many, if not all, 
are well known to parents, and often much deplored. It 
behooves the parent, however, not to err, and punish a child 
for the symptoms of disease under the belief that it is a bad 
habit. One such matter, in particular, requires our special 
attention. This, while a subject of peculiar delicacy, yet is 
of so great importance that we feel we will readily be ex- 
cused for intruding it in a work of this kind. It is the 
incontinence of urine, especially at night. Constantly do 
we find children punished for this occurrence under the 
belief that it is a carelessness — a bad habit into which they 
have fallen. On the contrary, almost invariably the child 



CARE OF CHILDREN. 237 

is a double sufferer, and very unjustly so. It suffers from 
the punishment and suffers from the act, which causes a 
most unpleasant condition until its clothing is changed. 

Again : by many people who recognize that this is really a 
diseased condition it is regarded as incurable, and hence 
nothing is done for its relief. When a child is afflicted in 
this way, the parent should at once consult a physician and 
persevere until the child is permanently cured. I say per- 
manently, because in so many of these troubles of childhood 
improvement is temporary and requires persistent treatment. 
When, after such improvement, a relapse occurs, the parents 
are too apt to abandon all effort, with the belief that the 
disease is incurable. We often find that children who are 
troubled with this affliction are in the habit of screaming 
out at night, springing from the bed as if in great fear, or 
burying the head in the clothing, as though to protect them- 
selves from danger. This is an affection known as " Night 
Terrors," and, as in the previous one, the child is constantly 
punished for so doing. Such treatment is not only very 
unjust, but extremely injudicious. When a child presents 
such symptoms it is out of health and imperatively demands 
medical care. An additional reason may be given in the 
fact that such a condition is very apt to be but the forerunner 
or premonitory symptom of loss of mind. Now that we 
know so well that insanity in many of its forms is but the 
expression of a disease which is constantly greatly relieved, 
and often permanently cured, it is well to be warned in time, 
and by early treatment prevent the full access of such 
disease. 

HORRIBLE STORIES. 

Scrupulously guard the child against the silly and horri- 
ble stories so frequently told them by nurses and others. 
In all children, especially those of a nervous temperament, 
who are awakened at night, the recollection of these things 
comes to them with terrible force amid the darkness and 



238 CARE of children:^ 

the loneliness, and it is enough to drive the child into a 
temporary, if not lasting, insanity. When such an attack 
occurs, always soothe the little one by every endearment, 
keep the light burning, and remain with it until it has been 
composed again to sleep. It is safer in such cases to have 
a light constantly burning, and when possible an attendant 
should be near, that, when aroused, it may at once feel a 
sense of protection. 

To prevent a return of these terrors, the general health 
should be cared for. See that the child has an abundance 
of out-door exercise. Exercise itself is a valuable means 
conducive of sleep in children. The child that has played 
in the open air all day long goes to sleep wearied, but with 
a sense of happiness as it falls into a sound, refreshing slum- 
ber, and, unless disturbed, usually sleeps the entire night 
and wakes refreshed for a new day's work. A special point 
in this connection is that every care should be observed not 
to disturb the sleep of a child. Much harm is constantly 
being done by carelessness in this respect. Another cause of 
harm is overwork of the brain, on which point we will 
speak hereafter. In addition, a child may suffer from such 
attacks as the result of indigestion, or of being indulged in 
too much food just before retiring. In all such cases it 
behooves the parent to remove all causes which may be 
supposed to incite to an attack, and should they continue, 
at once to consult a careful physician. 

SOOTHING SIRUPS. 

In a previous paragraph we alluded to " soothing sirups " 
and articles of a like nature, of which the name is legion. 
All such are useless and dangerous. It is safest and best 
to give no medicine to a child without the advice of a phy- 
sician. When, however, it would appear necessary to resort 
to such means, no article should be used of which the com- 
ponent parts are not fully known. Despite the assurances 



CARE OF CHILDREN. 239 

so freely given that this or that remedy contains nothing 
that is hurtful, we are constantly being deceived. The 
most hurtful and powerful drugs are usually the basis of all 
these nostrums, and which educated physicians would hesi- 
tate to employ for infants, except under great necessity and 
with the utmost precaution. The effect is generally to lull 
the symptoms for the time, while the cause is insidiously 
undermining the child's health, and finally the little one 
gets beyond the reach of the aid which, too late, is sum- 
moned to it. Again, the child speedily becomes accustomed 
to such articles, and requires their continuance and in in- 
creased doses. The least evil result is indigestion, followed 
by constipation, stunted growth, enfeebled intellect, and 
generally producing such a condition of impairment of 
vitality that the child readily yields to the most ordinary 
attack of disease, and death ends the lesson. 

TEETHING. 
The period for the appearance of the second or perma- 
nent set of teeth is rarely one when there need be any fear of 
disease. But it is very important that the parents should 
observe carefully that these teeth are cut regularly and are 
not interfered with by the temporary ones. Should they 
show signs of irregularity or of a tendency to decay, do not 
delay, but at once consult a skilled physician or dentist, 
that the trouble may be known and obviated. 

EARLY SCHOOLING. 

The question of the education of a child should always be 
one demanding careful consideration. While we are met 
on every hand by infant prodigies — children of wonderful 
precocity — yet it should be borne in mind that this is not 
according to the dictates of nature or of common sense. 
The hours of infancy and early childhood should be devoted 
to the accumulation of a fund of health, which in due time 



210 CARE OF CHILDREN. 

will enable its possessor to master, not only attacks of 
disease, but at the proper time to master the most difficult 
problems. These hours should be the happiest of life — free 
from cares or tasks, and particularly free from that irksome 
confinement to the hard benches of a school-room. " Seven 
years a baby." This is always true, and never more so than 
in regard to education. It is time enough after a child has 
reached and passed that era for it to commence the serious 
business of attending school. We would urge that, except 
in the most easy and pleasant manner possible, no positive 
efforts should be made in the line of what is known as edu- 
cation. 

Certainly, a healthy child is always learning, and little 
by little, with proper care, with scarcely an effort it 
acquires a valuable fund of knowledge during these early 
years. But there should be as few set tasks as possible, no 
memorizing of dates, or of long strings of verses or questions. 
Rather, in these days, the beautiful, the happy method of. 
the Kindergarten. Especially during the bright, warm 
days of summer should all confinement to the house be 
avoided. The school must be in the open air, wherever 
it can best be obtained, learning from nature's ever-open 
book. In this connection the evil results of overwork of 
the brain must constantly be borne in mind. Thus are 
often planted the seeds of disease, which too soon yield an 
abundant crop and a harvest of consumption, insanity, and 
the like. Chorea, or St. Vitus' dance, as it is commonly 
called, is frequently brought on by overwork of the brain, 
and even cases are known where an intellect exceptionally 
brilliant at the outset has in a few years been clouded by 
idiocy. 

A common belief with many is that all our meals should 
be partaken of in silence, and though not hastily, yet with- 
out undue loitering over them. This is a grave error. The 
table hour at all times should be a social one. Parents and 



CARE OF CHILDREN". 241 

children should, when convenient, enjoy their meals together 
and enlivened with pleasant chat. This prevents the bolt- 
ing of food half chewed, and other bad habits, and while the 
younger ones should not be permitted to monopolize, or 
even largely share in, the conversation, yet they should be 
encouraged to habits of attention and respect on these occa- 
sions that will enable them to profit in the future. 

PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT. 

As a child increases in years it should increase in 
strength. Here we gain by open-air exercise. In the very 
young their very exuberance of spirits prompts, even com- 
pels, them to romp and frolic. They are like young animals 
of all kinds, which we see wildly rushing back and forth in 
the fields, as if utterly unable to keep still. But as a child 
gets older it is too apt (especially is this seen in young 
girls) to be content with quiet play. Here comes in the 
value of light gymnastics. When not carried so far as to 
become a task, it proves extremely useful by bringing into 
play in succession each and every set of muscles. By the 
majority of teachers this exercise is so conducted as to be 
regarded as a pleasant means of health exercise, and only 
so long is it useful. The child that finds light exercise a 
drag requires close attention lest disease be making inroads 
when least expected. Hence a teacher should be watchful 
not to disregard the evident signs which tell of exhaustion, 
and should act accordingly. 

Dancing becomes a means to the same end, but, unfortu- 
nately, it is sadly abused. This is not the place to descant at 
length upon the abuses of dancing, save to warn parents not 
to permit this exercise to be carried so far that it produces 
muscular exhaustion rather than tenacity of the muscles. 
Skating, whether on the ice or on parlor skates, is equally a 
valuable exercise, but always with the same proviso. Re- 
cently we find the addition of lawn tennis, croquet, cricket, 



242 CARE OF CHILDREN. 

and base ball as incentives to out-door exercise. With all 
of them the constant trouble is to prevent excesses. The 
great desire for victory carries the players forward until 
they have long passed the boundary of benefit and they 
reap an abundant harvest of joints and muscles strained, not 
to say those graver injuries — heart diseases, blood vessels 
ruptured, hernia, and the like. The last game — viz., base 
ball, should be abolished from the list permitted for children. 
It not only demands too much and prolonged exertion, 
very destructive to the growing frame, but its dangers of 
maiming, even killing, its players are so many that it is 
absolutely unsafe both for performers and spectators. 

HOME GOVERNMENT. 

The home of a child from its earliest remembrance 
should be associated with happiness. Health is always the 
handmaid of happiness. A peevish, fretful child not only 
discomforts those around it, but is itself constantly the vic- 
tim of indigestion and the like. Hence it becomes an im- 
portant duty for the parent to begin the moral education of 
a child almost at birth. We constantly see how rapidly 
even an infant becomes the tyrant of the household when 
its slightest whims and humors are permitted and indulged. 
Kindness, but also firmness, are demanded in the treatment 
of children. Decide what is right, what is best, and let 
that decision be final. Make such decisions in no petulant, 
hasty spirit. This only leads to fear rather than love, and 
perhaps to concealment and deception. 

Above all, as the child grows older and more observant, 
be extremely watchful lest your example lead it astray. 
Remember, a child is ever apt to imitate the actions of those 
with whom it is constantly associated. Regard these little 
ones as your most priceless treasures. Study that you 
may so fashion their homes and their lives that the future 
will reflect no doubtful or evil results. 



SIXTH DEPARTMENT. 



TRYING EMERGENCIES. 



We know not of what we are capable till the trial comes ; — till it conies, 
perhaps, in a form which makes the strong man quail, and turns the gentler 
woman into a heroine. Mrs. Jameson. 



Trying Emergencies. 



WHAT TO DO FIRST. 

EMERGENCIES will arise. Accidents will occur; and 
when they occur the prompt action, if it be wisely 
directed, is that which accomplishes the needed work. 
An alphabetical arrangement of such cases as are most 
common is here given. When an emergency does arise, 
deliberately look for directions in this chapter, and proceed 
as directed, meanwhile seeking a physician. 

Apoplexy. — In apoplexy the patient suddenly falls into a 
state of stupor or unconsciousness, the pupils of the eyes 
are dilated, the breathing laborious or snoring, the swallow- 
ing difficult, the pulse slow and sometimes irregular, with 
loss of power in the limbs, and usually a deeply flushed 
face. Do not mistake this for intoxication. In such a case 
elevate the head and body, loosen the clothing about the 
neck, place the feet in hot mustard water with mustard over 
the stomach, apply cold to the head and nape of the neck, 
and send at once for a physician. If a doctor cannot be 
obtained quickly, open the bowels by an injection of soap 
and warm water. x 

Asthma. — Asthmatic attacks may frequently be cut short 
in several ways. If the patient be very nervous, let the 
attention be diverted in any way possible and the breathing 
will soon become much easier. Another method of relief 
may be found in administering an emetic ; still another, in 
smoking the asthma cigarettes which are sold generally by 

245 



246 TRYING EMERGENCIES. 

the druggists ; still another, in drinking one or more cups 
of strong coffee; still another, in inhaling steam from a 
basin of hot water into which a tablespoonful of Hoffman's 
anodyne has been poured, and still another, by giving a full 
dose of opium, laudanum, or paregoric. 

Bites of Dogs, Serpents, etc. — Make haste to suck well the 
bites of dogs, cats, snakes, and other animals whose bites 
are poisonous, unless the mouth is sore. In the case of 
dogs also bind the limb tightly above the bite and burn the 
wound with a hot iron or needle ; besides, capture the dog, if 
possible, and keep him watched carefully until ascertained 
whether he is mad or not. In the case of snake bite, after 
sucking and burning the wound, give whisky or brandy 
in full doses and keep up the intoxication until the doctor is 
called. 

Bleeding, see Hemorrhages. 

Blisters. — All blisters, whether caused by burns, scalds, 
heat of the sun, Spanish fly, or friction, should be carefully 
opened near one edge without removing the skin, and then 
dressed with sweet oil or some mild ointment like simple 
cerate, cold cream, or cosmoline. 

Broken Bones, see Fractures. 

Bruises. — First cleanse them ; then, until pain is relieved, 
apply cloths wet with cold water, to which laudanum may 
be added. After the pain has subsided, warm water dress- 
ings will hasten the removal of the discoloration, swelling, 
and soreness. 

Black Eye. — This should be treated as any other bruise. 
After the swelling is gone, the dark color may be concealed 
by painting it or by flesh-colored plaster. 

Burns and Scalds. — Dust the parts with bicarbonate of soda, 
or wet with water in which as much of the soda has been 
placed as can be dissolved. When the burns are so severe 



TRYING EMERGENCIES. 247 

that the skin broken and blisters are raised, open the blis- 
ters at one side and swathe the parts with soft linen anointed 
with simple cerate or saturated with sweet oil, castor oil, or 
equal parts of linseed oil and limewater. Burns from acids 
should be well washed with water. Burns from caustic 
alkalies, should be well washed with vinegar and water. 
When a person's clothing is on fire he should quickly lie 
down and be wrapped in carpet or something else that will 
smother the flame. 

Choking. — If possible, remove the offending substance at 
once with the fingers, or with blunt scissors used as forceps, 
or a loop of small wire bent like a hairpin. It may be pos- 
sible to dislodge it by blowing strongly in the ear, or by 
causing the patient to vomit by tickling the throat. In a 
child these efforts may be aided by holding it up by the 
legs. If pins, needles, or fish bones get in the throat, they 
frequently require great care in attempts at removal. A 
surgeon had better be called as soon as possible if the body 
cannot be dislodged at once, and especially if there be dif- 
ficulty in breathing. 

Cholera Morbus. — This affection often requires that some- 
thing be done at once. For this purpose, thirty drops of 
laudanum or two or three teaspoonfuls of paregoric may be 
given to an adult, or proportionate doses for children. Also 
apply over the stomach a mustard plaster or cloths wrung 
out of hot water and turpentine, and frequently changed. 
If relief is not soon obtained, seek the advice of a physician. 

Colic. — May be treated as above, with the addition of an 
emetic or purgative, or both, if due to undigested food. 

Convulsions in Children.— When these occur, place the child 
at once in a bath of hot water with mustard added ; apply 
cold water cloths to the head, move the bowels with an in- 
jection of warm water or soapsuds, and give enough sirup 
of ipecac to vomit, unless this has already occurred. Con- 



248 TRYING EMERGENCIES. 

vulsions frequently indicate the commencement of some dis* 
ease ; hence it is well to call a physician early. 

Contusions, see Bruises. 

Croup. — When a child is taken suddenly with the croup 
at night, give at once a teaspoonful of sirup of ipecac, or 
the same with a few drops of antimonial wine added, or a 
teaspoonful of powdered alum followed by a cup of water. 
Repeat these soon if necessary to cause vomiting. Warm 
water cloths may be applied to the throat if covered with 
dry wrappings. Keep the child warm, so that sweating may 
be induced, and strive to allay its excitement or fear. 

Cuts, see Wounds. 

Diarrhoea. — Diarrhcea is most generally caused by an irri- 
tation of the bowels, due either to the presence of undigested 
food or the remains of a previous constipation. Hence it 
is always well to commence treatment by a dose of castor 
oil, to which may be added ten drops of laudanum. After 
the bowels have been moved, give to an adult ten or fifteen 
drops of laudanum after each subsequent movement, stop- 
ping its use after a few doses. Half-teaspoonful doses of 
ginger in water may be tried. Injections of boiled starch 
with twenty or thirty drops of laudanum may be tried. Give 
but little opium to children. 

Dysentery. — Dysentery may almost certainly be recog- 
nized by the griping and bearing-down feeling when the 
bowels are moved, and especially if the discharges are slimy 
and mixed with blood. 

A physician should be consulted without wasting much 
time in trying the simpler diarrhcea remedies. 

Dislocations. — A dislocation is the displacement of the end 
of a bone at the joint; hence there is a deformity of the 
joint. The ligaments about the joints are necessarily more 
or less torn ; hence there is pain. Most of these dislocations 



TRYING EMERGENCIES. 249 

will require the skill of a surgeon ; hence one should be ob- 
tained as early as possible, care being taken to make the 
patient as comfortable as may be by an easy position and 
cooling and soothing applications to the affected joint. 

The following named joints may be easily restored usually 
by the process given : Dislocations of the fingers are reduced 
by pulling in the line of the bones with moderate pressure 
at the affected joint. Retain in place by a small splint loosely 
bound along the back of the finger and hand. 

Dislocation of lower jaw. — Replace this by wrapping the 
two thumbs well with towels, then thrusting them into the 
two sides of the patient's mouth, slipping them over the back 
teeth, at the same time grasping firmly, with the fingers, the 
two sides of the jaws outside the mouth, and making pres- 
sure firmly downward and backward with the thumbs, using 
the sides of the jaw as a lever. As soon as the jaw is felt 
to be moving into place, slip the thumbs quickly from ofY 
the teeth into the sides of the cheeks to prevent having them 
crushed by the teeth, which will be drawn together with 
great force. Afterward, keep the jaw in place by bandag- 
ing, so that the lower teeth will be firmly pressed against 
the upper row. 

Dislocation of shoulder. — To reduce this, place the patient^ 
on his back, sit down close by his side with foot to his 
shoulder, remove the shoe and place the foot in his arm-pit, 
seize the patient's hand and pull firmly, drawing the arm 
somewhat across the body, and making at the same time, 
pressure upward and outward with the foot in the arm-pit, 
If successful, the head of the bone will be heard, or felt, to, 
go in place with a snap. If not soon successful, stop an$ 
send for a surgeon. Retain bone in place by bringing the 
forearm across the chest and securing there by some kind oi 
bandage. 

Drowning. — To prevent drowning, — When upset in a boat 



250 TRYING EMERGENCIES. 

or thrown into the water and unable to swim, draw the 
breath in well ; keep the mouth tight shut ; do not struggle 
and throw the arms up, but yield quietly to the water ; hold 
the head well up, and stretch out the hands only below the 
water ; to throw the hands or feet up will pitch the body 
below the water, hands or feet up will pitch the body head 
down, and cause the whole person to go immediately under 
water. Keep the head above, and everything else under 
water. 

To restore the apparently drowned. — As soon as removed 
from the water, treat the patient instantly on the spot with- 
out wasting precious time in removing to a house, unless 
the weather is intensely cold. Free the neck, chest, and 
waist of clothing. Place the patient on his face with a 
cushion under his chest and his arm under his forehead, and 
make pressure on the back for a moment to force water from 
the lungs. Clear the mouth with the finger and prevent the 
tongue from obstructing the windpipe by bringing it well for- 
ward, and securing it there by passing a cord well back over 
its base, bringing the ends out at the corners of the mouth 
and tying them under the chin. Then turn the patient on 
the back, with a cushion under the shoulders so as to carry 
the chin away from the chest and thus extend the neck. 
Then seek to restore respiration in the following manner, 
which is generally known as Sylvester's method : place your- 
self behind the patient's head, seize the arms near the elbows 
and sweep them around away from the body and bring them 
together above the head, at the same time giving them a 
strong pull for a few seconds. This elevates the ribs, en- 
larges the chest, and thus fills the lungs with air. Next 
return the arms to their former position beside the chest 
and make strong pressure against the lower ribs for a 
moment so as to drive out the air again from the lungs. 
Repeat this manoeuvre about fifteen or sixteen times a 
minute, and keep it up for a long time, unless natural 



TRYING EMERGENCIES. 251 

respiration is secured in the meantime, or it has been estab- 
lished beyond a doubt that the patient is certainly dead. 

When the patient begins to breathe, stimulate this by the 
use of ammonia applied to the nose, by slapping briskly the 
surface of the body, by dashing water upon the chest or face, 
and by suiting the artificial to the movement of the natural 
as nearly as possible. Let some person also commence rub- 
bing the limbs briskly upward so as to aid the feeble circu- 
lation ; and secure warmth to the body by warm blankets, 
warm bricks, bottles of warm water (or anything else that 
will retain heat), applied to the armpits, over the stomach, 
and elsewhere about the body. Let some stimulant be 
given as soon as it can be swallowed, and repeated occa- 
sionally until danger is over. 

' Never attempt to move the patient until fully restored if 
you can possibly avoid it. Then he should be carefully 
placed in a warm bed and watched to see that breathing 
does not suddenly cease. Should this occur, renew the ar- 
tificial respiration at once. 

Ear {Foreign bodies in). — If a living insect is in the ear, 
turn the head to the opposite side and fill the ear with tepid 
water, oil, or glycerine, and it will soon come to the surface. 

A bright light thrown into the ear will also often suc- 
ceed in bringing it out. Any body that will not swell when 
moistened with water may probably be removed by syring- 
ing the ear thoroughly, with the face held downward. 

None but the very gentlest probing of the ear should be 
attempted by any one but a physician, who understands 
what a delicate organ he has to deal with. 

Earache. — Earaches frequently are caused by diseased 
teeth. In such cases the quickest remedy is either the 
extraction of the sinning tooth or the adoption of treatment 
appropriate for the toothache. Earaches not caused by the 
teeth may often be relieved by using hot drinks, and a hot 



252 TR YING E MER GENCIES. 

hop poultice over the affected ear. A persistent earache 
most likely indicates some disease of the ear and should 
always lead to consulting a doctor. 

Epileptic Fits. — These are known by pallor of face at first, 
a peculiar cry, loss of consciousness, then flushing of face 
and violent convulsions, with foaming at the mouth, rolling 
of the eyes, and biting of the lips and tongue. 

In a fit of this kind, place the patient on the back, with 
little or no elevation of the head ; control his movements only 
so far as to prevent injury; place a folded towel between the 
teeth, if possible, to prevent the biting of the tongue. 

When the convulsion is over, let the patient rest in some 
quiet place, having previously taken a slight stimulant if very 
much exhausted by the violence or length of the fit. 

Eye {Foreign bodies in). — Dirt in the eye may be washed 
out by squeezing from a sponge a small stream of tepid 
water. To wash lime from the eye, use the tepid water mod- 
erately acidulated with vinegar or lemon-juice. Cinders 
and other small particles may be removed generally by 
touching them with a soft silk or linen handkerchief twisted 
to a point, or by using a loop of human hair. Metallic par- 
ticles can often be removed best by the use of a magnet. 

To expose the eye more fully, the upper lid may be easily 
everted by lifting it by the lashes and pressing from above 
by a slender pencil or stick. 

Fainting. — When persons have fainted lay them down 
with the head as low as possible, loosen the clothing, keep 
back any crowding that would interfere with plenty of fresh 
air; sprinkle water over the face, apply hartshorn to the 
nose, and if too long in recovering consciousness, place 
heated cloths or plates over the stomach. 

Fits in Children, see Convulsions. 



TRYING EMERGENCIES. 253 

Fish-hooks. — When a fish-hook has entered any part of the 
body, cut off the line, file off the flattened end, and pass 
the hook on through the flesh like you would a needle in 
sewing. 

Fractures. — Broken bones are easily recognized by the 
grating of the ends on each other, by the unusual bending 
of the limb, and by the pain caused by motion at this point. 
A fracture is called compound when the end of the bone 
protrudes through the skin. Whenever such protrusion is 
seen, the part should be cleansed and at once covered with 
adhesive plaster or a piece of linen saturated with white 
°f e gg- All fractures should be attended to by a surgeon ; 
consequently the dressings suggested here are only tem- 
porary, and intended to protect the parts from further 
injury. 

In fracture of the arm above the elbow, bandage the 
upper arm to the side of the chest, and place the hand in a 
sling. 

In fracture of the arm below the elbow, bend the arm at 
the elbow at a right angle, place the thumb uppermost, and 
bandage it between two padded splints, reaching from elbow 
to ends of the fingers, one being placed on the back of 
the arm and the other on the front, and place the hand in a 
sling. 

In fracture of the leg below the knee, extend the leg beside 
the sound one, giving it the same position ; place a pillow 
beneath from the knee down, fold the sides of the pillow 
over the leg, and secure it in that position by bandages. 

In fracture of the thigh-bone, place the patient on the back 
in bed, relax the muscles of the leg by drawing the feet up 
toward the body sufficiently, bind splints to the outer and 
inner side of the broken thigh ; then bind both legs together, 
and turn patient on the side with the injured limb upper* 
most. 



254 TRYING EMERGENCIES. 

In fracture of the knee-cap, bind the whole limb to a 
splint on the back of it, being careful to place a sufficiently 
large pad beneath the bend of the knee. 

In fracture of the collar-bone, place the patient on his back 
on a hard bed without any pillow. 

In fracture of the lower jazv, close the mouth a«jd bandage 
so as to keep the two rows of teeth together. 

In fractures of the skull, lay the patient down and apply 
cold, wet cloths to the head. 

In other fractures, place the patient in the most comforta- 
ble position possible, keep him quiet, and apply cold water 
to prevent swelling. 

For splints, pasteboard, leather, shingles, or pieces of 
cigar-box may be used. 

Frostbite. — In frostbite use gentle friction in a warm room, 
using enough cold water or snow to prevent too rapid 
reaction and consequent pain in the affected part. If very 
severe, call a physician, as gangrene may follow. 

Gunshot Wounds, see Wounds. 
Heatstroke, see Sunstroke. 

Hemorrhages. — In hemorrhages from an artery, the blood 
is bright red, and spurts or jets out from a cut. To stop it, 
make compression between the wound and the heart. 

In venous hemorrhage the blood is dark in color and 
flows in a steady stream. To stop it, make compression on 
the side of the wound away from the heart. Hemorrhage 
from the lungs is bright red and frothy, while that from the 
stomach is of dark Color. 

To make t 1 iorough compression of a blood-vessel, knot a 
large handke/chief in the middle, place the knot over the 
line of the vessel, tie the ends firmly around the limb, thrust 
a short stick beneath, and twist by turning the stick like 
you turn an auger. 



TRYING EMERGENCIES. 



255 



Hemorrhage from the nose may be stopped generally by 
snuffing up the nose salt and water, alum and water, or vin- 
egar, or by applying ice between the shoulders or at the 
back of the neck. Keep head raised. 

hi hemorrhage from the lungs, place the patient in a sit- 
ting posture in bed, giving teaspoonful doses of salt and 
vinegar every fifteen minutes, and apply ice or cold water to 
the chest, unless the patient is too weak to bear it. 

In hemorrhage from the stomach, broken ice may be swal- 
lowed with teaspoonful doses of vinegar. 

In hemorrhage from the bowels , use ice-water injections 
and ice over the abdomen. 

Injuries to the Brain. — Blows or falls upon the head are lia- 
ble to injure the brain in two ways. 

Concussion of the brain is recognized by the sickness, faint- 
ness, pallor, depression, and confusion of the patient, and is 
best treated by placing the patient on his back in a quiet, cool 
place, loosening the clothing, and applying heat to the body 
and limbs if they be clammy or cold. 

Compression of the brain is due to fracture of the skull, 
generally a portion being depressed. The symptoms and 
treatment about the same as apoplexy. 

Intoxication. — This may be distinguished from apoplexy by 
the absence of paralysis and of insensibilty of the eye-ball, 
and by the smell of liquor on the breath. 

When sure that the patient is intoxicated and not suffer- 
ing from apoplexy, an emetic may be given, followed by a 
dose of some preparation of ammonia. 

Vinegar is a very good thing to sober a drunken person. 

Insect Stings, see Stings. 

Ivy Poisoning. — Treated by £he application of cloths satu- 
rated with sugar-of-lead water or with a solution of bicar- 
bonate of soda in water. 



256 TRYING EMERGENCIES. 

Lightning Stroke.— Treat with rest and stimulants and 
warmth applied to the body. 

Nausea and Vomiting. — First cleanse the stomach by giving 
large draughts of warm water, and then give small pieces of 
ice, a teaspoonful of lime-water, or a half teaspoonful of aro- 
matic spirits of ammonia, or a small quantity of magnesia 
or baking-soda, and, if necessary, place a mustard plaster 
over the pit of the stomach. 

Nervous Attacks, or Shivering Fits, are treated by hot 
drinks, heat to the surface of the body, mustard or turpen- 
tine over the stomach, and a dose of Hoffman's anodyne or 
tincture of valerian, if at hand. 

Nose (Foreign bodies in). — Children are apt to shove up 
their noses small bodies of different sorts, which may cause 
serious trouble unless soon removed. Their removal may 
often be effected by vigorously blowing the nose or by re- 
peated sneezing, produced by snuff, or by tickling the nose 
with a feather. If these fail, a hair-pin or button-hook may 
be carefully tried. 

Nose-bleed, see Hemorrhages. 

Poisons. — Acids act as irritant poisons, of which the most 
common are sulphuric, nitric, muriatic, and oxalic. 

For poisoning by any of these, give large quantities of 
either soda, magnesia, chalk, whitewash, whiting, or plaster. 
Then provoke vomiting, give bland drinks, rest, and stimu- 
lants if required. For oxalic acid the best antidote is lime 
in some form. For carbolic acid, vomiting, large draughts 
of oil or milk, rest, warmth of body, and stimulants. 

For the alkaline poisons — ammonia, soda, potash, or con- 
centrated lye — give vinegar freely ; then provoke vomiting, 
and give bland drinks, followed by rest, and stimulants if 
required. 

For arsenic, Paris green, or ScheeWs green, give large quan- 
tities of milk, white of egg, or flour and water ; then vomit ; 



TRYING EMERGENCIES. 257 

then give tablespoonful doses of dialyzed iron, followed by 
a teaspoonful of salt in a cup of water ; vomit again ; give a 
dose of castor-oil, with rest, and stimulants if needed. 

Stigar of lead. — Give Epsom salts, provoke vomiting ; re- 
peat several times ; then give demulcent drinks, followed by 
castor-oil. 

For corrosive sublimate, provoke vomiting, give strong tea 
without milk ; repeat these several times, then give milk and 
raw eggs ; follow with a dose of castor-oil, and stimulate if 
necessaiy. 

For tartar emetic, use the same treatment as for corrosive 
sublimate. 

Y ox phosphorus (usually from matches), provoke vomiting 
by giving repeatedly five-grain doses of sulphate of copper, 
then give a dose of magnesia, but no oil. 

For lunar caustic, give a strong solution of salt and water 
repeatedly, then vomit. 

For iodine, vomit, give starch dissolved in water freely, 
following with bland drinks. 

For opium, laudanum, morphia, paregoric, and chloral, 
vomit the patient freely and repeatedly, with mustard and 
warm water; then give strong coffee; keep the patient 
roused by brisk slapping of the skin, or by moving about, 
or by the galvanic battery, and use Sylvester's method* of 
keeping up artificial respiration if necessary. 

For strychnine, vomit once or twice, give a purgative, and 
then secure absolute rest in a dark, cool room, free from 
draughts. Large doses of bromide of potash (thirty grains) 
or twenty grains of chloral may be given. 

For toadstools or Jamestown (jimsoit) weed, produce 
vomiting and follow by stimulants and external application 
of heat. 

For decayed meats and vegetables, empty the stomach, 
then give a dose of castor-oil and some powdered charcoal. 

* See under Drowning, p. 506. 



258 TRYING EMERGENCIES. 

For all poisons the best general emetic is mustard and 
plenty of warm water, aided, if possible, by the patient's 
finger thrust down the throat. The best stimulant is strong, 
hot tea or coffee, to which may be added the alcoholic 
stimulants. The best bland drinks are milk, beaten raw 
eggs, gum arabic water, or oil. Demulcent drinks are of 
the same general character. They are mucilaginous, and 
so protect the coatings of the stomach from irritants, etc. 

Scalds, see Burns. 

Shocks. — In violent shock, such as results from severe 
injuries, lay the patient down, cover warmly, and if cold, 
apply external heat by using bottles of hot water, hot 
bricks, or hot flannels, etc. If the patient can swallow, 
give stimulants ; if not, give stimulating injections. A mus- 
tard-plaster may be applied to the chest and spine with 
advantage. 

Snake-bites, see Bites. 

Spasms, see Convulsions. 

Spitting Blood, see Hemorrhages. 

Splinters. — Wood splinters, if not too brittle, may generally 
be extracted by tweezers or forceps by seizing the end and 
pulling steadily and carefully in the direction opposite that 
in which they entered. Nature will soon make them easier 
of extraction by the formation of matter around them. To 
get hold of a splinter under the nail, cut out a V-shaped 
portion of the nail above it and then the end can be seized. 
Splinters of glass unless readily extracted should be left to 
the skill of the surgeon. When a splinter in the eye can- 
not be extracted, bathe in cold water and bandage loosely, 
so as to keep the eye as quiet as possible till the surgeon 
arrives. 

Sprains. — Treat sprains by rest, elevation of the limb, cold, 
moist applications at first, and afterward either cold or warm, 



TRYING EMERGENCIES. 259 

whichever gives the greater degree of comfort. A splint or 
bandage is sometimes useful. 

Stings. — The stings of scorpions, tarantulas, centipedes, 
bees, wasps, hornets, etc., may be treated best by the appli- 
cation of cloths wet in cold water, or wet mud even. The 
application of a little ammonia or salt and water will gen- 
erally give marked relief. 

Suffocation. — Treat by quick removal to the open air, 
loosen the garments, and apply friction and artificial respira- 
tion if necessary. To escape injury by the heavier gases, as 
carbonic acid gas, the gases of mines, wells, etc., strive to 
keep the head above them. To escape through smoke, 
cover the head with some article of clothing, and seek the 
outlet with the head as near the floor as possible. 

Sunburn. — For sunburn, use equal parts of bicarbonate of 
soda and fresh lard or cosmoline. 

Sunstroke. — Treat this by removing the clothing, applying 
ice to the head and arm-pits until the high temperature is 
lowered and consciousness returns, when it should be dis- 
continued until a rising temperature again calls for it. A 
cold bath of iced water may be very beneficial. 

Toothache. — When due to a hollow tooth, cleanse the 
cavity with a little dry cotton on a probe or large needle, 
and then pack into the cavity a wad of cotton which has 
been dipped in creosote, oil of cloves, or ether. When there 
is no cavity, try bathing the face and gums with some of the 
various anodynes. 

Unconsciousness. — For the recognition of unconsciousness 
due to fainting, injuries of the brain, and intoxication, see 
those subjects. When unconsciousness is due to disease of 
kidneys there will generally be convulsions, also a smell of 
urine and a dropsical swelling about the eyes and legs. 
When there is uncertainty as to the cause of the uncon- 



260 TRYING EMERGENCIES. 

sciousness, lay the patient on his back with the head some- 
what raised; and if there be pallor and other signs of 
prostration and a cold surface, apply ammonia to the nose, 
with heat externally and hot drinks internally. If there 
be a hot surface, cold should be used externally and in- 
ternally. 

Wounds. — The first important thing to do is to stop the 
hemorrhage according to the directions given under the 
head of Hemorrhages. Press tightly between the wound 
and heart if the blood is bright red and spurts or jets out; 
but if blood is dark and flows slowly and steadily, make 
pressure beyond the wound or on both sides of it. For 
wounds high up in the arm, press firmly just above and back 
of the middle of the collar-bone ; and for those high up in 
the leg, press over where the artery is found beating in the 
groin. For wounds of the head, apply pad over the wound 
and bandage tightly. 

To temporarily dress incised wounds or clean cuts, bring 
the edges of the cut evenly together and fasten by bandages, 
adhesive plaster, or pieces of linen saturated in white of egg. 
When the chest or abdomen is cut so that the lung or bow- 
els protrude, first cleanse these by gently squeezing over them 
tepid water from a sponge, and then carefully place them 
back very gently with a soft cloth wet in warm water ; if not 
able to replace them with such a cloth, wet with warm water 
and keep it wet until a surgeon arrives. 

Lacerated or torn wounds seldom bleed much. These 
should be carefully cleansed of all foreign substances, the 
parts placed in position as nearly as possible, and then 
treat as bruises with wet cloths sprinkled with laudanum. 

Perforated Wounds, such as may be made with a rusty 
nail, should be enlarged or kept open by the introduction of 
lint, which must be changed three or four times a day, and 
the wound should be kept well cleansed. 



TRYING EMERGENCIES. 2(U 

Gunshot Wounds should always have the care of a sur- 
geon. Temporarily let them be treated by cold, wet cloths, 
with the addition of laudanum if required. If there be signs 
of shock, treat according to directions given under that head. 
About the same general directions may be followed in the 
treatment of injuries caused by machinery. It may be ac- 
cepted as a rule, that gunshot wounds, railroad accidents, 
and machinery accidents are worse than they seem to be. 
The shock to the system is also very severe in these cases, 
and is hard to rally from. 

In all emergencies, the poorest thing to do is to lose 
presence of mind and to hesitate when action is needed. 
Be cool, prompt, decided ! 

EMERGENCY BY FIRE. 

Beyond the class of emergencies already discussed, that 
by fire is as imperative as any. There may be dangers of this 
kind where the most pressing duty is flight. One should 
prepare himself for this by cool contemplation of every new 
situation in which he sleeps or tarries — where the probable 
source of danger lies and what is the most available method 
of escape should be in mind before the emergency arises. 

As a rule, however, the party who discovers a fire should 
give an alarm and then run at it — not from it. Many fires 
can be smothered out. Far less water will drown a fire 
than many suppose. A bucket of water applied from a tin 
dipper to the point of greatest peril will do more good than 
a barrel of water promiscuously dashed out. Keep cool 
and put water where it is needed. 

In a smoke-filled apartment lie down and creep on the 
floor. Tie a wet handkerchief over the mouth and nostrils 
when passing dense smoke. Carry a coil of small but 
strong rope, with knots along it, when you travel. If need- 
ing to escape by it, fasten one end to the bedstead, grasp 



2(]2 TRYING EMERGENCIES. 

the rope with a towel, and slide down slowly. Do what 
you can for others who may share your peril, keeping your 
presence of mind and assuring others. 

RAILROAD ACCIDENTS. 

These are generally so sudden that no amount of pre- 
caution avails. As a rule for passengers, however, it is best 
never to jump from a train. That involves more danger 
than staying aboard, usually. The aisle of the car and near 
its centre are the safest positions, as a rule. It is bad in col- 
lisions to have the feet entangled with the seats. To mount 
the seat or reach the aisle is generally safer. In any case, 
keep your presence of mind, without shouting or rashness. 
None but a foolhardy person allows his head or arms to 
project from a moving train. 

ACCIDENTS ON ICE. 

In cold climates every winter has its attendant accidents 
upon the ice. Prevention here is better than cure, and pre- 
vention may be had by the little contrivance shown in the 

cut and known as the 
" Detroit Ice Creeper." 
A represents the creeper 
in position, ready for 
use. The dotted line 
B shows the creeper 
thrown back entirely 
out of the way when not in use or walking in-doors. The 
attachment to the shoe-heel is made by screws. Thus 
equipped, one may walk firmly on the smoothest ice. 




SEVENTH DEPARTMENT. 



Games and Amusements. 



There are some trades that are solitary and exclusive. Authorship is one 
of these ; and perhaps the author is not always a very amusing inmate. But 
the actor in the private play, the clever and ready wit who makes the charade 
lively, the musician, the embroideress, the fortune-teller, . . . and the artistic 
member — these can add to home amusements. 

M. E. W. S. 



Games, Amusements, Etc. 



RECREATION is re — creation. It makes a man feel 
new. Time immemorial it has been confessed that " all 
work and no play make Jack a dull boy." The same 
law holds in children of the larger growth. The taut bow 
of active manhood must be relaxed at times, or its elasticity 
will certainly be lost. Splendid surroundings cease to 
charm and may become monotonous or positively irk- 
some. The softest couch cannot relieve a mind disturbed. 
For such ills mental panacea is demanded, and this is found 
in games, amusements, entertainments, and the like. 

Any fertile mind can invent something in the nature of a 
game, or can improve upon existing games. Not, probably, 
upon the old standard games, however. Chess, for instance, 
has been studied by the world's master minds, and he is a 
genius indeed who can add anything thereto. But " the 
way we play it," as is so often said, is probably the very 
best way for each special party in the ordinary games, which 
have not been developed to a perfect method. First, as 
pre-eminent for combining healthfulness with pleasure, 
should be considered 

OUT-DOOR GAMES. 

Arehery. — One of the oldest of games is Archery. Origi- 
nally a means of warfare and the chase, it has survived that 
use and now flourishes as a pastime. Archery organiza- 
tions are venerable in England and popular in America. 

205 



266 GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 

The " York Round " of Archery consists of seventy-two 
arrows at one hundred yards, forty-eight arrows at eighty 
yards, and twenty-four arrows at sixty yards. All public 
matches shot in Great Britain by gentlemen are decided 
upon the result of either a single or double York Round. 

The " National Round," shot by the ladies of Great Bri- 
tain at all public meetings, consists of forty -eight arrows at 
sixty yards and twenty-four arrows at fifty yards. Gener- 
ally the prizes are awarded upon the result of a Double 
National Round. 

The " Columbia Round," adopted for this country, con- 
sists of twenty-four arrows at thirty yards, twenty-four 
arrows at forty yards, and twenty-four arrows at fifty yards. 
These distances are well suited to tke present state of skill 
and practice among ladies, and the ranges and division of 
arrows will be in great favor for the first year or two. It 
will be then time to consider the matter of extending the 
ranges. 

The points sought in scientific archery are (i) Position; 

(2) Nocking the arrow, or properly placing it on the string ; 

(3) Drawing the bow, which must be done to the same dis- 
tance, in the same manner, and in the same time^ else irreg- 
ular hitting will result ; (4) Aiming so as to " keep a line " 
and to hit the target ; (5) Loosing the string so that the 
arrow will fly with power and grace. Finger-gloves, touched 
in grease, facilitate the loosing. 

Bows vary in drawing power, those used in the York 
Round averaging about fifty pounds. Arrows are twenty- 
eight inches long, all of the same form, weight, etc. Ar- 
rows are poinded so as to enter the target. A slight blunt- 
ing will vary the flight yery materially. Condition of wind 
must be allowed for, as crqss winds, or winds toward or 
from t\\Q target, all affect the flight. Practice under the in- 
struction of archery manuals and expert marksmen will 
make perfect ; and for pleasant, healthful, out-door exercise 



"GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 267 

in which gentlemen and ladies can participate, archery will 
prove second to none. 

Base Ball. — By common consent, Base Ball is our national 
game. It is, however, a game exclusively for boys and 
men. It is in no sense a family game. It is attended with 
so many serious injuries and has been so largely relegated 
to professional clubs that interest of the better sort has 
been withdrawn from it to a great extent. Those interested 
should buy Hutching's Base Ball Manual, which contains 
the rules (of which there are over seventy, and most of them 
have many specifications), the interpretations of rules, de- 
cisions of leagues, record of plays, etc. 

Cricket. — This is essentially the national game of England, 
but it is gaining ground in this land. It is played with 
single or double wicket, the latter being the true game. The 
two sides have eleven players each, though a numerical 
allowance is sometimes made for acknowledged superiority 
of players. The in side remains in until all its members but 
one have been put out. The bowler aims to knock down 
the wickets, while the batsman protects them by parrying 
the balls, which are stopped and caught on the field by 
fielders at various points, while the batsman makes his 
" runs," interchanging places with the other batsman. Hoyle 
thus describes the game : 

" We will suppose a party of cricketers turning out for an 
afternoon's sport. Some carry bats, two have cricket balls, 
and several others bear the stumps of which the wickets are 
constructed. They come to the place where the wickets are 
to be set up, or ' pitched.' It is a level field, and the space 
between the wickets, in particular, is flat as a billiard-table. 
Now the bowlers advance, and under their direction the 
wickets are set up. The distance between the wickets is 
twenty-two yards. The distance between the stumps must 
be a little less than the diameter of the cricket ball, so that 



2G8 GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 

the ball cannot pass between the stumps without touching 
them and knocking off" the bails or little bits of wood placed 
across the top of the stumps. The companions of the 
bowler are now dispersed about the field in various posi- 
tions. . . . They all labor for the same object — namely, to 
stop the ball when it is struck by the batsman, to catch it 
(if possible) before it reaches the ground after being delivered 
from the bat (in which case the batsman is considered caught 
out, and his inning is over), and to throw the ball up, when 
they have stopped it, to the bowler or wicket-keeper as 
quickly as possible. The bowler's desire is to knock down 
the batsman's wicket, while the batsman's province is to 
defend his wicket by striking away the ball as it is bowled 
toward him. Beyond this, he has to judge what balls it will 
be safe for him to strike hard at and what balls he must 
content himself with blocking, or striking down ; for on the 
number of runs he obtains will depend the share he con- 
tributes to the success of his side." 

For the detailed rules of Cricket, see Hoyle's Games. An 
English publication, James Lillywhite's Cricketers' Annual, 
is full of valuable information. 

Croquet. — This game is so well known and so generally 
played, that no better service can be rendered than — waiving 
the questions of variety in arrangement and apparatus — to 
give the generally accepted rules for the play. 

THE LAWS OF CROQUET. 

1. At the outset two of the party are chosen chiefs, one for each side. 
These two determine which shall have the first choice of players. Each plays 
a ball from the starting-point, and he who, with one blow of the mallet, drives 
his ball nearest the turning-stake wins the first choice. 

2. The chief who has won the first choice of players opens the game. 

3. Each player at starting must place his ball a mallet's length in front of 
the starting-stake and opposite the centre of the first arch. 

4. A player may play in any attitude he chooses, but in striking he must 
use only one hand. 



GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC, 269 

5. The ball must be struck with the face of the mallet's head, and the 
stroke must be a distinct blow, and not a push. 

6. The chief who opens the game is followed by the chief of the opposing 
side, and the other players on each side play alternately in accordance with 
the colors marked upon the starting-stake. 

7. If any players play out of his turn, and the error be discovered and 
challenged before another player makes a stroke, the opposing side may either 
compel the delinquent player to replace his ball in its original position, or they 
may allow it to remain where it was played. But any advantage to himself or 
disadvantage to his opponents, occasioned by misplay, must be immediately 
rectified. 

8. If the adverse side fail to challenge the misplay before another player 
has commenced, no penalty is attached, but the offending party cannot use his 
next turn, having already anticipated it. 

9. Should a player, by mistake or otherwise, use a wrong ball, he must 
suffer the consequences, and not the rightful owner of the ball. If the 
error be discovered and challenged before the turn is completed, the ball must 
be restored to the position it occupied previous to the misplay, and any dam- 
ages sustained by the adverse side by reason of the misplay must be repaired 
and the offending player deprived of his turn. But if the misplay be not chal- 
lenged previous to the next player commencing to play, the game proceeds as 
if no misplay had occurred, and no penalty is attached. 

10. Each player continues to play so long as he makes a count in the 
game; that is, so long as he drives his ball through the next arch in order, 
strikes the turning-stake in order, or achieves either roquet, croquet, or roquet- 
croquet, or a combination of two or more of these. Failing to accomplish 
either of these, he relinquishes his turn to the next player. (See Law 26.) 

1 1 . The balls must pass through the arches in their regular consecutive 
order and in the proper direction of the course. If a ball be driven through 
an arch out of regular order, or from the wrong side, it does not count any 
more than if it had passed over any other portion of the ground. When a ball 
passes properly through an arch it is said to " make its arch." 

12. A ball makes its arch when it passes through it in its proper consecu- 
tive order, from either of the following causes only : 

I. When it is driven through by a blow from its owner's mallet. 
II. When it passes through from roquet, croquet, roquet-croquet, or 
ricochet. 
III. When it is driven through by concussion ; that is, by a blow from 
another ball driven against it by roquet, croquet, roquet-croquet, or 
ricochet. 



270 GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 

13. A ball is considered to have passed through its arch if it cannot be touched 
by the handle of the mallet when moved from the top to the base of the arch, 
from wire to wire, on the side from which the ball passed. 

14. Should a ball be driven only partially through its arch in the wrong 
direction, it is not in a position to be driven back and through in the right 
direction . 

15. If a player can drive his ball through two arches by one stroke, or pass 
it through an arch and against the turning-stake, he may lay his mallet on the 
spot where his ball stopped, place it in any direction that is most useful to 
him, and put his ball at the end of the mallet. 

1 6. Striking the turning stake is equivalent to making an arch, subject to 
the same conditions, and enjoying the same privileges; with this exceptional 
advantage, the stake may be struck from any direction. (See Laws 12 
and 15.) 

17. When a ball has completed the round and has struck the starting-stake, 
either by a stroke from its owner's mallet or by roquet, roquet-croquet, cro- 
quet, or by concussion, it becomes a dead ball, and must be removed from 
the field. 

iS. When a ball has completed an entire round with the exception of 
striking the starting-stake, it becomes a Rover, and may either go out by strik- 
ing the starting-stake, or may continue its play at large all over the field, sub- 
ject to the conditions and limitations hereafter specified. 

19. A Rover may play upon all the balls one after another, but on no one 
ball twice in the same turn. 

20. A Rover must roquet, roquet-croquet, or croquet in order to continue 
his play. 

21. Should a Rover strike the starting-stake, as specified in Law 17, it 
becomes a dead ball, and must be removed from the field. 

22. When one ball strikes another it is a roquet, and this holds good whether 
the ball striking it proceeds direct from a stroke of the mallet, or rebounds 
upon it from a stake, arch, or any other fixed obstacle, or from another ball 
which it has previously struck. 

23. When a ball roquets another, it may strike the roqueted ball again without 
any intermediate play, but this does not constitute another roquet. If, how- 
ever, either ball in this second stroke be driven through its proper arch, the 
arch shall be counted as passed, but the playing baM is not entitled to another 
stroke. 

24. A ball having made a roquet, may either croquet, or roquet-croquet the 
roqueted ball, or proceed on its round. 

25. When a ball roquets two or more balls by one blow of the mallet, it 
constitutes what is called a ricochet. 



GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 271 

26. A ball terminates its tour of play when, without making an arch or 
striking a turning-stake, it roquets a ball which it has croqueted. (See 
Law 10.) 

27. A ball may only croquet that ball upon which it has made a roquet. 

28. A player may croquet any number of balls consecutively ; but he cannot 
croquet the same ball the second time during the same turn without first send- 
ing his own ball through the next arch in order, or hitting the turning-stake. 

29. A player must perceptibly move the ball he croquets. 

30. In making ricochet, a player may croquet the first or all of the balls at 
his option, but the order of croquet must be the same as that of ricochet. 

31. If a ball roquet another, and with the same stroke make its arch, it may 
croquet the roqueted ball, or refuse to do so, and again roquet it before mak- 
ing the croquet, or it may proceed to make another arch. 

32. While executing the croquet, if a ball flinch, the shot is void, and the 
croqueted ball must be replaced in its former position. The croqueting ball 
may then proceed with its turn, but it cannot repeat the croquet just 
missed. 

23- The laws of roquet-croquet are precisely the same as those which govern 
the croquet, and a player may roquet- croquet any ball that has been roqued. 

34. After making roquet, a player may take two chances by roquet-croquet. 

35. Should a ball in its progress over the ground be interrupted by anyone, 
the player to whom it belongs m \y either allow it to remain where it stopped 
after its interruption, or remove it to the point it probably would have reached 
had no interruption occurred. 

36; Should a ball be accidentally displaced, it must be restored to its proper 
position before the game can proceed. 

37: Should an arch or stake lose its upright position from any ca-iise, it must 
be restored before the play proceeds. 

38. No play is permitted outside the limits of the ground. A ball driven 
beyond the limits must be immediately placed on the ground at the point 
where it crossed the boundary. A ball so placed may be played upon by 
friend or foe. 

39. If one ball roquets another, and either or both balls go beyond the 
bounds, either or both shall be replaced, and the roqueting ball may play on 
the roqued ball the same as if neither had been driven off the bounds. 

40. Players on the same side may advise each other upon a stroke, but not 
assist in making it. 

41. The game is finished when all the players on one side have made all 
the arches and struck the two stakes. 

42. The umpire is chosen by the two chiefs. 



272 GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 

43. The decision of the umpire is final. His duties are, to decide when 

balls are fairly struck ; to restore balls to their places which have been 
disturbed by accident ; to decide whether a croqueted ball is moved or not, 
in doubtful cases ; and to settle all other disputed points which may arise 
during the progress of the game. 

Lawn Tennis. — Lawn Tennis is the destined game of the 
future. " How does it compare with croquet ?" was asked 
of an expert in both games. "As a wedding does with a 
funeral," was the answer. 

As in croquet, gentlemen and ladies may play at Tennis ; 
yet in this there is so much of action that for the youthful 
and vigorous it has special charms. 

It should be played on a level, well-cut lawn. Rubber- 
soled shoes should be worn to insure sure footing and pro- 
tect the turf. Sets packed in strong boxes can be had from 
$4.00 to $35.00 in price. The set contains bats, or racquets ; 
regulation balls, net poles, net thirty-six feet long, boundary 
pegs, lines and runners, mallet, and book of instructions, 
which gives full directions for constructing the court and 
conducting the game. 

The fact that to play the game requires the set, and that 
this always includes the printed rules, makes it unnecessary 
to give rules here. Suffice it to say that the game consists 
in serving or delivering the ball from the racquet over the 
net from one court or area into another, the opposing party 
returning the ball in similar manner. The game may be 
played by two, three, or four persons. The skill required 
for correct service, the agility in catching the balls and dex- 
terity in managing them, the opportunity of scoring afforded 
by good play on your own part and by poor play of the an- 
tagonists, combine to make the game very attractive and 
healthful. 

BOARD GAMES. 

Chess. — Chess is unquestionably the chief of board games. 
It is played upon a board containing sixty-four squares, 



GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 273 

with two sets of differently colored pieces, or men ; each 
set having sixteen pieces, of which eight are pawns, having 
the same value and moves ; the others, with their special 
value and moves, being for each set a king, a queen, two 
bishops, two knights, and two castles or rooks. Upon this 
game volumes of profound depth have been written, and 
journals are exclusively devoted to its discussion. In the 
brief space here available, so abstruse a game cannot be 
discussed with fullness or even fairness. Those interested 
need a Chess Manual and the instruction of an expert. 

Checkers. — This is an ancient game, a sort of infantile 
Chess, played upon the same board, and using twelve pieces 
for each side, arranging them on alternate squares in the 
three outer rows of the board. The advances are made 
from each side by moves on the diagonal squares, the one 
having the right to move " jumping'' any unprotected 
enemy on an adjacent diagonal, so reducing the number of 
his opponent's pieces. When a piece reaches the outer 
row on its opposite side it becomes a " king," privileged to 
move either way. This is " crowned " by placing another 
piece on top of it. The one jumping all his opponents first 
wins the game. The game for a lively spurt may be re- 
versed, the one losing all his pieces first becoming the win- 
ner. This is called " Give Away." 

Backgammon.— This game is played on the inner side of 
the ordinary chess or checker board. It requires fifteen 
checker pieces and a set of dice for each of the two players. 
The board has twenty-four points colored alternately of two 
different colors. The pieces are arranged on eight of the 
points for each side, the position of each set corresponding 
precisely to that of its opponent. Moves are made as de- 
termined by the throwing of dice, each party advancing his 
men around the board and aiming at two objects; 1st, to 
leave no single piece exposed which might be taken up by 



274 GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 

the opponent ; 2d, to catch up any exposed piece of the 
opponent. Pieces can be taken up when they stand alone 
on a point and the move to be made by the other side 
reaches that unprotected piece. The piece so taken up can- 
not resume play until it is re-entered on a point correspond- 
ing in number to one on the dice thrown by its owner. 
When all the pieces of a side have been gathered into the 
final or home table, the player may throw off any of them 
from points corresponding to the dice thrown. If he has 
none to correspond, he must move up the required number 
of points, or, if this cannot be done, he may play off his 
next highest piece or pieces, as may be needed. The party 
first getting all his pieces off wins. If any of the loser's 
pieces are not then in his home table he is gammoned, which 
is equal to two ordinary beats or hits. If the winner throws 
off all his men before the loser gets his last man to his own 
side of the board, it is a backgammon, equal to three hits. 
The numbers thrown on the dice must be played, unless it 
is impossible by reason of pre-occupancy of points, when 
the throw is lost. If doublets be thrown, the player has four 
moves instead of two. 

Russian Backgammon. — In this game all the men are en- 
tered into the same table according to the throws. Both 
sets follow the same route on the board, neither side moving 
out of the first table till all its men are duly entered, and 
neither throwing off any men until all of his pieces have 
reached the terminal table. This game is longer and far 
more stubborn than the ordinary form. 

Bagatelle. — This is to Billiards as Checkers is to Chess — 
a diminutive member of the same family. He who plays 
the superior game seldom takes interest in the other. It is 
played on a board varying in length to suit the desires of 
purchasers. Cups are set in the board flush with its surface, 
into which ivory balls are driven with a cue, the plays all 



GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. Tib 

bsing from the opposite end of the board. These cups 
have different values, upon which the count is made. They 
vary in number from nine to fifteen. Various games are 
played on the same, or very similar boards, for which 
directions are furnished on the purchase of the apparatus. 

Other Board Gam9S. — Among the many folding-board 
games which are deemed specially good may be named 
Parchesi, Stella, Falconry, Spider and Fly, Go Bang, Rus- 
sian Tivoli, Fox and Geese, Solitare, The Captive Princess, 
Cats and Mice, Ambuscade, Steeple Chase Game, John 
Gilpin, The Pilgrim's Progress, and The Monopolist. 

CARD GAMES. 

Aside from the ordinary playing-cards with their almost 
limitless varieties, there is a splendid assortment of other 
cards, both instructive and amusing. Every stationer and 
toy-dealer has these at various prices and with full directions 
for playing. 

MENTAL GAMES. 

Dictionary. — A long but familiar word is announced to a 
company and two minutes are allowed in which to write all 
the words which can possibly be formed from the letters of 
the assigned word. Any word of two or more letters is 
allowed, proper names and foreign terms excepted. Any 
letter of the assigned word may be used twice or oftener in 
any written word. At the end of two minutes the writing 
stops and each list is read. Every word which two or more 
persons have written is stricken from the lists ; every word 
written by one only counts for the writer as many as there 
are parties in the game. If five play, each exclusive word 
counts its writer five, etc. The party announcing the word 
docs not write, but is counted, and directs the reading of 
the written words in turn from his right. 



o 



76 GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 



Post. — This game is well adapted to a large party, and 
much fun and merriment may be found in it. One of the 
players is chosen to fill the office of postmaster-general. 
He in time selects a postman, who has his eyes bandaged 
for a race. The other players seat themselves in two rows 
facing each other, along the room, a short distance apart. 
At the commencement of the game, the postmaster-general 
gives to each player the name of a town, and if the company 
is large it is well for him to aid his memory by writing the 
names of the different places on a piece of paper. All being 
arranged, the sport begins by the blind postman standing 
between the rows of chairs and waiting for orders, while the 
postmaster-general retires to a corner of the room and calls 
out the names ; when so doing the parties bearing them 
must immediately change seats, and the blind postman 
endeavors to catch them as they run or get in their place. 
Should he be successful, and capture one of those changing 
places, or get in the empty chair, the one caught or excluded 
from his place becomes the postman. The postmaster 
always retains his position throughout the game. When 
a player remains seated after his town is called, he must pay 
a forfeit or some other penalty imposed by the postmaster. 
During the game the postmaster will exclaim, " The general 
post is going ; " then the entire company must change seats, 
and in the race for a place the postman is certain to find a 
chair, and leave a companion without one to take his office. 
We will give an example of this game. 

Postmaster : The post is going from Boston to New 
York. 

Boston and New York change places. 

Postmaster : The post is going from Trenton to Phila- 
delphia. 

Trenton and Philadelphia attempt to change seats, but 
the postman catches Trenton, and leaves him to take the 
place of postman. 



GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 211 

Postmaster : The post is going from Baltimore to Wash- 
ington. 

Baltimore and Washington change seats. 

Postmaster : The post is going from Hartford to New 
Haven. 

Hartford and New Haven try to change places, but the 
postman gets in Hartford's chair and he must act as 
postman. 

Postmaster : Be quick ! The general post is going. 

In the confusion of running for a chair, it is quite likely 
a new postman will be found. Thus the game goes on, 
affording much pleasure and fun. 

Who are you? Who ami?— This game is instructive and 
pleasant, giving the players an opportunity to gain and give 
information. One of the company leaves the room, and the 
others select some noted historical or literary character. 
The player outside is then recalled ; as he enters, the com- 
pany address him as though he were the person they have 
named. He also questions them ; and the party who leads 
him to the discovery must in turn retire from the room. 
For example, as the outside party enters the room, he is 
greeted with the remarks, " You are truthful," " You are 
brave." He at once proceeds to question the others in 
turn. 

When and where was I born ? 

In the 1 8th century, in Virginia. 

For what was I famous ? 

For military ability, courage, wisdom, good judgment, &c. 

Was I a general and then President of the United States? 

Yes. 

Then, I am George Washington. 

Another pleasing way to play this game, is by sending 
two players from the room. They choose some character, 
and on entering the room, converse together about such 



278 GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC, 

person, allowing those in the room to guess the party they 
personate. The one guessing chooses a companion and 
leaves the room to enact the next character. Sometimes 
the parties appear in costume, and act the prominent 
incidents of the life of the person chosen. Thus by trying 
different ways to play this game, much instruction and 
amusement may be gained from it. 

The Four Elements. — The party being seated in a circle, 
the player chosen to commence the game, takes a knotted 
handkerchief and throws it suddenly into another's lap, call- 
ing out at the same time either, " Earth !" " Water 1" " Air !" 
or " Fire !" If " Earth " be called out, the player into 
whose lap the handkerchief has fallen must name some 
quadruped before the other can count ten : if " Water !" he 
must name a fish : if "Air !" a bird ; and if" Fire !" he must 
remain silent. If the player names a wrong animal or 
speaks when he ought to be silent, he must pay a forfeit and 
take a turn at throwing the handkerchief; but should he 
give the correct answer, he must throw the handkerchief 
back to the first player. This is an exceedingly amusing 
game ; those who have never joined in it can have no idea 
of the absurd errors into which the different players fall 
when called suddenly to name a particular kind of animal. 

Key-Game. — This game may be played by any number of 
persons, who should all, except one, seat themselves on 
chairs placed in a circle, and he should take his place in the 
centre of the ring. All the company sitting must next take 
hold with their left hands of the right wrists of the persons 
sitting on their left, being careful not to obstruct the grasp 
by holding the hands. When all have in this manner joined 
hands, they begin moving them from left to right, making a 
circular motion and touching each others hands, as if for the 
purpose of taking something from them. The player in the 



GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 279 

centre then presents the Key to one of the company, and 
turns his back, so as to allow it to be privately passed to 
another, who hands it to a third. Thus it is handed round 
the ring from one player to another with all imaginable 
celerity, which task is easily accomplished, on account of the 
continued motion of the hands of all the players. It is the 
office of the player in the centre, after allowing time for the 
Key to be passed to the third or fourth player, to watch its 
progress and endeavor to seize it in its passage. If he suc- 
ceeds in his attempt, the person in whose hand it is found, 
after paying a forfeit, must take his place in the centre, and 
give and hunt the Key in his turn. Should the seeker fail 
in discovering the Key in his first attempt, he must continue 
to search until successful. 

Birds Have Feathers.— The company are seated, and each 
places his hands on his lap. One of the party, chosen as 
leader, cries out, " Birds have feathers !" and suddenly lifts 
his hands from his lap ; all the company are expected to do 
likewise. The leader raises his hands each time he calls out 
anything, but the rest, only when such things as have feath- 
ers are named. His object is to catch the others and make 
them pay forfeits, by raising their hands at the wrong time, 
which they will do, if not sharp and on the lookout. To 
illustrate, the leader cries in rapid succession, " Birds have 
feathers !"— " Ducks have feathers !"— " Chickens have fea- 
thers !" — " Geese have feathers !" — " Dogs have feathers." 
In the excitement of the game, some are certain to raise 
their hands, not remembering that Dogs do not possess 
feathers ; and they must pay the number of forfeits agreed 
upon by the company. 

Consequences. — In this game the players are seated round 
a table, and each supplied with a piece of writing paper and 
pencil. One player starts by writing a quality of a gentle- 



280 GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 

man, "the handsome," "the noble," or whatever may occur 
to the mind to apply to a person. All are expected to keep 
their eyes on their own paper, not looking at their next 
neighbor. The company then fold the top of each paper, 
hiding what has been written, and each player passes his 
paper to the party on his right, making all the players have 
a different paper for the next writing. On this is written 
the name of a gentleman ; (it is fun to name some one pre- 
sent). The papers are again folded and passed as before, 
adding pleasure to the game, as no two persons write con- 
secutive sentences on the same paper. Next write the qua- 
lity of a lady, fold and pass as before — then the lady's name 
where they met — what he said to her — what she said to him 
— the consequences, and what the world said. Always fold 
and pass the paper at every round of the sentences. One 
paper is then given to each person, and they in turn read 
the paper in hand. Some startling sentences are found 
linked together by different minds. We give these speci- 
mens from a choice collection. The talented Mr. Smith and 
the handsome Miss Brown met on a railway train. He 
said to her, " are you going to Niagara ?" She said to him, 
" The beauty of the landscape exceeds my anticipations." 
The consequence was, " they started homeward to learn the 
truth of it," and the world said, " Just as we expected." The 
second strip unfolded, reads, " The cross Mr. Snap and the 
frivolous Miss Flimsey met in a balloon ;" he said to her, 
" Love me always ?" She said to him, " I will try my best." 
The consequence was " An elopement," and the world said, 
" How could they ?" 

Concert. — A noisier game than this could scarcely be 
desired by the most boisterous of our young friends. The 
players, having selected a " conductor," seat themselves 
round him in a circle. The conductor then assigns to each 
a musical instrument, and shows how it is to be played. 



GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 281 

When all are provided with their imaginary instruments, 
the conductor orders them to tune, and by so doing he 
gives each musician a capital opportunity for making all 
sorts of discordant noises. When the different instruments 
have been tuned the conductor waves an unseen baton, and 
commences humming a lively air, in which he is accom- 
panied by the whole of his band, each player endeavoring 
to imitate with his hands the different movements made in 
performing on a real instrument. Occasionally the con- 
ductor pretends to play on a certain instrument, and the 
player to whom it belongs must instantly alter his move- 
ments for those of the conductor, and continue to wield 
the baton until the chief player abandons his instrument. 
If a player omits to take the conductor's office at the 
proper time, he must pay a forfeit. The fun of this game 
depends on the humor of the conductor, and the adroitness 
with which he relinquishes his baton, and takes up the 
instruments of the other players. 

Yes and No. — After a romp the young people will desire 
a quiet game, during which they can rest themselves. We 
advise them to try this pleasant puzzling game. The com- 
pany take seats and choose one of their number to think of 
a person or object, while the others try his patience with 
puzzling questions regarding it. He replies to them with 
" Yes " or " No," watching himself so as to give no clue to 
the thought. Each of the party in turn tries to guess what 
the "thought" is, from the answer given them. If the 
players are apt and watch closely, they will soon discover 
the thought, unless it is a very difficult one. After a 
number of trials, if the word is not guessed, the one chosen 
may be told, and the same person have the pleasure of 
giving the company another chance to guess. 

How ? When ? and Where ?— This is a good game to test the 



282 GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 

guessing quality of a company. One of the number leaves 
the room. Those remaining name some object or article to 
be guessed by the person outside. It is well to choose 
words having double meanings, such as, ark (arc), cord 
(chord), flour (flower). This makes the answers more 
puzzling and difficult to guess. When the word is decided 
upon, the person out of the room is recalled and takes his 
march round, going to each in succession and asking them, 
"How do you like it?" Take the object named as flour 
(flower). The first person may answer, " white ; " the next, 
" real ; " another, " baked," and so on through the com- 
pany. The questioner keeps trying all the time to find out 
the object named. Not doing so, he proceeds to inquire of 
each one in turn, " When do you like it ? " One person 
may reply, " At dinner-time ; " another, " in the spring 
season." Thus he questions the entire party as before, and 
not being sharp in two questions, finally gives a third as a 
last resort, and most likely will find out then, as the com- 
pany, in pity for his dullness, will give hints to put him on 
the right track. " Where do you like it ? " " At the mill," 
" in the garden," " in clusters," etc. Having guessed three 
times and succeeding, he names the person who gave him 
light on the subject. He in turn must pay a forfeit and is 
sent out of the room, for the company to decide upon 
another word. When the party fails to find the word given, 
he tries another word. 

Hunt the Whistle. — A person who has never seen the game 
is elected hunter ; the others seat themselves in a circle on 
the floor. The hunter, having been shown the whistle, 
kneels in the centre of the circle, laying his head in the lap 
of one of the players until the whistle is concealed. While 
he is in this posture, the whistle is to be secretly attached 
to the back part of his coat by means of a piece of string 
and a bent pin. One of the players then blows the whistle, 



GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 283 

and drops it. The hunter, being released, is told to find it, 
but this is no easy task, as he carries the object of his search 
about his own person. As the hunter kneels in the centre 
of the group, the different players blow through the whistle 
and drop it, as the opportunities occur. The puzzled hunter 
is sometimes fairly tired out before he discovers the trick 
that is played upon him. 

Proverbs. — In playing this game, the person chosen to 
guess the proverb retires from the room, while the others 
remain and name some proverb, such, as " A stitch in time 
saves nine ;" " All is not gold that glitters ;" " Train up a 
child in the way he should go ;" "A rolling stone gathers 
no moss," etc. When the proverb is chosen, one of the 
company gives each person a word of the sentence. The 
word received must be given in the answer to any question 
asked by the guesser. We will take the first for example, " A 
stitch in time saves nine." The first person takes " A ;" the 
second, " stitch ;" the third, " in ;" the fourth, " time ;" the 
fifth, " saves ;" the last, " nine." The party out of the room 
is then recalled and begins to question each person, com- 
mencing with number one. He enquires, " Have you 
chosen a difficult proverb ?" " No, I do not think it a very 
hard one to guess." Turning to the next player he asks, 
" Have you been riding to-day ?" " Yes, but I came home 
early, that I might put a stitch in the dress that was torn." 
If the questioner is sharp he will see that the answer is so 
formed as to get the word stitch in, and may guess from this 
the proverb. But he proceeds to number three, and asks, 
" Do you enjoy playing games ?" " Yes, I have spent many 
a pleasant hour in such amusement." Thus he continues 
questioning until through the proverb, although he may 
find out before he comes to the last word. Should he not, 
he has three times to guess, and if not successful, must 
leave the room again. If he is fortunate in naming the 



284 GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 

proverb, he must name the person who gave him the clue, 
and this one must retire from the room to try his or her 
guessing abilities. 

I Love my Love with ail A. — This is a very amusing game 
if played with zest and earnestness. The interest will be 
lost, and the sport lose its brightness, if the players are not 
quick to reply. The object of the game is to rapidly call 
to mind some epithets beginning with any particular letter 
of the alphabet. If you cannot do so, a forfeit is the penalty. 
The company are seated, and all, in turn, express their love 
for their Love with a word commencing with the letters of 
the alphabet in rotation. Often the sentences pass round 
the circle in succession, but generally the last one express- 
ing, calls on one of the party on the other side to quickly 
respond with the next letter. This keeps up the interest, as 
each one is on the lookout, fearing to be called on next. 
For example, the first will say, " I love my Love with an A, 
because he is amiable." The second person continues, " I 
love my Love with a B, because he is bountiful." Then this 
last one speaking will call on Miss Brown on the opposite 
side to continue. She will quickly respond, " I love my 
Love with a C, because he is captivating." Should she fail 
to reply, a forfeit must be paid, and she must call on some 
one else. Thus the game continues through the alphabet. 

Hunt the Ring. — The players form a circle, one standing in 
the centre of it. Have a long string with a ring on it, held 
by all the party. The ring is passed quickly from one 
hand to another along the string, while the player in the 
centre endeavors to detect into whose hand the ring has 
passed, and take it from the one holding it. The rest of 
the players keep the ring going from hand to hand, trying 
to impress the person inside the ring by their motions that 
it is with one person, when it may be on the other side of 



GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 285 

the circle. It takes a sharp look-out and " be quick " to 
catch it, as it passes rapidly from one to the other. When 
the ring is found, then the person having it takes the place 
of seeker and tries his power to catch and find the ring. 

What is my Thought like ? — The company choose one of 
their number to think of some person, place or thing, as 
Washington — Boston — wagon — or whatever strikes the 
mind first. The company in turn are asked by him or her, 
"What is my thought like?" They, not knowing the 
thought, will make odd guesses. For instance, one will 
say, " Like a locomotive ; " the next, " Like a lion," and so 
on. After the opinions have been collected from all the 
party, the questioner reveals his thought, and every player 
has to assign a reason for the answer to the first question, 
or pay a forfeit. To illustrate : the one who asked, " What 
is my thought ? " says, " George Washington." " Why is 
Washington like a locomotive ? " " Because of his swift- 
ness in the performance of his work." " Why like a lion ? " 
" Because he was brave." Thus the game continues through 
the circle, affording an opportunity for ingenious answers. 

Transpositions. — This game will afford amusement for 
many an hour and give improvement as well as pleasure. 
The company being provided with pencil and paper, each, 
in turn, writes on his or her paper the name of a city, 
mountain, or some eminent person, &c, transposing the 
letters so that the word will not be known without some 
study. It is well to write a few words of explanation after 
the word. Should the word be a city, state some incident 
to give the guesser some clue. If a historical person, state 
some event connected with him, or the country in which he 
lived. After each one has finished writing, the papers are 
folded, collected, and put in a basket on the table. After 
shuffling them together, each one of the party draws one 



286 GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 

of the papers from the collection and is expected to decipher 
the word thereon. If the person cannot do so, a forfeit is 
the penalty. When each paper has been read, the game 
begins anew. We give some transpositions of words for 
those desirious of enjoying this game: Nacei-Ntsnot — the 
first Christian Emperor (Constantine) ; I ring not sawhivng 
— the father of American Literature (Washington Irving) ; 
Koen-Woyt— a celebrated battle of the Revolutionary War 
(Yorktown) ; Lanco-Silrw — a noted British General of the 
Revolution (Cornwallis) ; Tug-Rafar — the bravest com- 
mander of the fleet during the late war (Farragut). 

Fruit-Basket. — All the company are seated, except one 
standing in the centre of the circle, who has charge of the 
fruit-basket. He gives to each one the name of a fruit 
to deposit in his basket when called for. The person having 
such fruit must reply to the request before the holder of 
basket counts five, or pay a forfeit. Every now and then 
he wishes all the fruits thrown in at once, when the whole 
circle of players must rise and change places. The holder 
of basket runs for a chair, and the player left without a 
place must take charge of the fruit-basket, and give the 
names of fruit to be again deposited. 

Where you were— What you were doing — Whom you were 
with. — This is a very laughable game, affording sport by the 
ridiculous combinations given to each person. All the 
company, except three, are seated in a row. The first of the 
three starts and whispers to each person " where you were ;" 
the second following tells " what you were doing ;" while 
the third gives the name of " whom you were with." After 
the company have each received these three facts, the leader 
calls on them to give a report of what they have heard. 
Should any persons forget, they must pay a forfeit for poor 
memory. We give some examples. 



GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 287 

First person : " I was on the house-top, playing the piano, 
with Napoleon Bonaparte." 

Second person : " I was in the cars, looking through a 
telescope, with Mr. William St. Clair," (one of the company ) 

Third person : " I was in a baloon, arranging a wreath of 
flowers, with Queen Victoria." 

We think that our young friends will find much amuse- 
ment from this game. 

The Menagerie.™ During a merry set of games, much fun, 
and surely no harm, can be made by playing an innocent 
trick on one of the party. We recommend this for your 
pleasure. The party being seated, the leader addresses them 
by saying, " I intend starting a Menagerie, and wish each 
one of you to personate some animal, by making the noise 
Or giving a motion peculiar to them. I will whisper to each 
one the animal he or she is to represent. When I give the 
signal, all must rise and give such animal's noise or motion. 
The lion will roar ; the rooster crow ; and so on, when I 
count three." He then walks to each one and whispers, 
" Keep quiet," until he comes to the victim of the trick, to 
whom he whispers, " Ba-a like a sheep." The leader then 
calls, " Attention ! Look at me, and as I say three, fail not 
to rise and give the noise of the animal you represent." At 
the given signal, all " Keep quiet," as requested, except the 
poor sheep, who rises to his feet, acting and looking very 
" sheepish." When given to a conceited person, the trick is 
capital and affords much laughter at his expense. 

Initiation — After some quiet, sober games, this " mysteri- 
ous " one will be enjoyed by all playing it. Three of the 
company remain in the room, the others (not knowing the 
secret of the game), retire, and one at a time enters the 
room to pass through the ordeal of initiation. One of 
the players remaining inside, seats herself at the piano and 



288 GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 

commences to play a mournful strain of music ; another 
girl (or boy) stands as door keeper, and with solemn face 
admits a player. The third one advances to meet the 
person entering, and in a sober manner blindfolds her, then 
requests her to point the front finger of her right hand 
before her and march straight forward. In so doing the 
blind walker finds her finger caught in the mouth of one 
of the players. A shout or scream will follow, and the 
initiation into that society is completed. 

The admitted member remains in the room, and another 
player is called to enter, the same joke being played until 
all are acquainted with the mysteries of the game. 

The players inside can themselves determine upon the 
tricks to be played, and vary them as they desire. Always 
choose something startling, that will cause the players to 
scream, and thus excite the curiosity of the company out- 
side of the room, and increase the mystery of the process 
of initation. 

The music should continue, and talking be done in a quiet 
manner, that the others outside may not hear, and guess the 
joke of the game. A merry company will always find 
sport in trying this amusement. 

The Hidden Word. — One of the players leaves the room and 
the others agree upon a word which they must place in all 
the answers to the questions given them by the outside 
player on returning to the room. The word chosen should 
not be a difficult or uncommon word ; something naturally 
placed in any ordinary answer to a question given, such as, 
" but," " hear," " and," " look," etc. Having decided upon 
a word, the player is recalled and passes to each one in 
turn, asking them a question, until the hidden word is 
guessed. The person giving the clue to the word must 
then retire and be the next to do the guessing. If the 
questioner fails to find the word, after enquiring of all the 



GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 289 

company, he must leave the room again and have another 
trial. The players should be careful in replying not to place 
any emphasis on the particular word, or make it prominent 
in the answer. 

The Traveling Secret. — One of the company whispers a 
sentence to the player on the right. This one, in turn, 
whispers what was heard to the next one, and so on through 
the circle, the last person telling it to the first, who repeats 
aloud what the sentence was when started on its journey 
and when it returned. Then each player in turn repeats 
what was heard. It is not often that the secret is the same 
when reaching home as when starting to go round the trip. 
No person must repeat the whisper, but should a player fail 
to catch the secret, one must be invented or given as nearly 
as possible to what was heard. Some very amusing com- 
binations travel round a circle in this game. Send them 
rapidly and much fun will be found in receiving and for- 
warding the secret on its journey. 

Words in a Word. — It is necessary that two only of the 
company should be acquainted with the game. One leaves 
the room, stating that he or she can return and in a short 
time tell them the word they agree to use for the game. 
They decide the word shall be " Love." Then the other 
player acquainted with the game, tells the first to say 
" Lig'ht ;" the second, " Oar ;" the third, " Vein," and the 
fourth, " Ear." The outside person is recalled and on pass- 
ing to each one receive the words given, and soon informs 
them that the word is " Love." They must guess how it 
was found out. By studying you will see that words are 
taken whose initial letters in rotation form the word selected. 
Sometimes it is played by all the parties knowing the game, 
and choosing their own words to form from the one chosen, 
and the person leaving the room, not knowing how the 
game is played, must guess the word and art of finding it. 



200 GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC, 

Tasks for Redeeming Forfeits.— When a person in the pre- 
ceding games fails to accomplish certain tasks, or misses in 
the sport, he has to pay a forfeit, which may be a glove, ring, 
or any small article belonging to him, to the player having 
the office of forfeit keeper. In redeeming these forfeits the 
players incur certain penances which cannot as a rule be 
performed without the presence of both sexes. 

The manner of redeeming forfeits is this : The forfeit 
keeper takes his or her place on the chair, while the party 
chosen as judge to pronounce sentence upon the various 
persons, sits or kneels on a stool before the forfeit 
keeper. 

The latter holds one of the forfeited articles over the head 
of the judge (who does not see it), and repeats the follow- 
ing : " Heavy, heavy, what hangs over?" " Is it fine ?" (for 
gentleman), " or superfine?" (for lady), enquires the judge, 
" Fine," (or superfine, as the case may be). " What shall 
be d^ne with the owner?" According to the answer given 
by the holder, a task is given to perform. Having accom- 
plished the task, the article is returned to the owner. 

We give some penances which will be found to be pleas- 
ant, and laughable to perform. 

Journey to Rome.— In this the person whose forfeit is called 
is required to go round to every person in the room and 
tell them that he is going on a journey to Rome, and assure 
them if they have any message or article to send to the 
Pope, he will be greatly pleased to take it. Every one must 
give something to the traveler, no matter how large or awk- 
ward to carry, (the harder the task the more merriment), 
until he is literally overloaded with presents. When he has 
gathered them all, he walks round the room, then to a cor- 
ner, and deposits them there, having paid for his forfeit. 

To Brush off a Dime. — This trick, if well conducted, will 



GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 291 

excite great laughter and should be given to a person not 
knowing it. 

The judge shows the owner of the forfeit a dime, and insists 
that he must brush it off his forehead when placed thereon. 
Wrap the dime in a wet handkerchief, press it against the 
forehead, not permitting the person to put his hands to 
forehead or look in a glass. He will imagine that it is fas- 
tened from the feeling of the impression on the forehead, 
and try in various ways to shake it off, often making himself 
ludicrous in his persevering efforts to perform the task. 

Wit, Beauty and Love. — This is an old-fashioned penance, 
but it always affords amusement, especially when given to a 
bashful person. To redeem his or her forfeit, the person 
must bow to the wittiest, kneel to the prettiest, and kiss the 
one loved best. 

The Knight of the Rueful Countenance. — The player whose 
forfeit is called is named the " Knight." He must take a 
lighted candle in his hand, and select some other player to 
be his attendant, who takes hold of his arm. They march 
slowly around the room to all the ladies in the company. 
It is the attendant's office to kiss the hand of each lady, 
after each kiss to wipe the Knight's mouth with his hand- 
kerchief, which he holds in his hand for the purpose. The 
Knight mi st carry the candle and not change his rueful 
countenance to a smile. Should he do so, he must accom- 
plish some other task. 

The Bouquet. — The owner of the forfeit must compare each 
lady to a flower, and explain the points of resemblance. 
Thus he may liken one lady to a rose, on account of her 
blushes ; another to a snow drop, because she hangs her 
head so modestly ; another to a lily, because she is fair and 
tall. This penance gives the person who incurs it, a capital 



292 GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 

opportunity for passing some very pretty compliments, as 
well as some doubtful ones. 

The Barefooted Friar. — This is given to a boy to perform. 
He is told to put two chairs together, take off his shoes and 
jump over them. He will, no doubt, be puzzled, think this 
a difficult task, and dangerous penance, but if he will reflect 
a moment, he will understand that the shoes, and not the 
chairs, are to be jumped over. 

The Will. — This is a good penance. The player who 
owns the forfeit, is requested to leave the room ; during his 
absence the others arrange how his property is to be 
divided. They fix different values to different parts of his 
body. His head is the chief legacy; the right arm, the 
second ; the left arm, the third, and so on. The penitent is 
then recalled, passed to his lawyer (chosen from the party), 
and asked, " As you are desirous of making your will, may 
I ask you which of these persons is to be your principal 
legatee ? " The poor victim points to some gentleman or 
lady. " To whom do you leave the second part of your 
property ? " The owner of the forfeit points to another 
person, and so on, until he has willed away his head and 
limbs. The lawyer then orders the different legatees to 
seize their property, which they do with great eagerness, 
one catching his head, another grasping his arm, etc., to the 
intense astonishment of the owner of these members, and 
the great amusement of the company. 

The Twine-Twister. — Give this penance to a sharp, quick 
person to repeat to test his or her expertness : 

" When the twister a twisting would twist him a twist, 
For the twisting his twine he three times doth intwist j 
But if one of the twists of the twist doth intwine, 
The twine that intwisteth untwisteth the twine." 



GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 2£3 

Or this one, repeat rapidly : 

" A peacock picked a peck of pepper, 
Did he pick a peck of pepper ? 
Yes, he picked a peck of pepper ; 
Pick pepper peacock." 

The Prison Diet. — First blindfold the person, then bring a 
glass of water and a tea-spoon. Each one of the party advances 
and gives the prisoner a drink. He must continue drinking 
until he guesses the name of the person giving to him. 
It is not likely he can do this, unless some kindly friend 
laughs or gives some familiar token known to the prisoner. 
When the glass is almost emptied, the task is considered 
ended. 

There are many other penalties ; often bright minds in 
the company can originate some and add to the amusement 
of the occasion. Some smaller ones are laugh, cry, cough 
and sneeze in the four corners of the room; kiss your own 
shadow six times without laughing ; hop on one foot round 
the room several times ; pat your head with one hand, and 
rub your breast with the other at the same time ; pay four 
compliments to four different persons, avoiding to use the 
letter »S in every one ; repeat and compose poetry, or tell an. 
amusing story, etc., etc. 

In performing these penalties let good-will and a willing 
spirit be shown. Often it seems difficult to perform the 
task, but it will add to the fun and good cheer of the com- 
pany to take it all in pleasant humor and thus have enjoy- 
ment yourself and give amusement to your friends. We 
trust that many a merry hour will be spent in the playing 
of these games, and much happiness and profit derived from 
them. 



294 GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 

Twenty Questions. — This game was once so popular among 
the Cambridge professors that they declared any subject 
could be reached in ten questions. The company divides 
into questioners and answerers. After the subject is chosen, 
questions are asked in some such form as this : Is it animal, 
vegetable, or mineral ? What is its size ? To what age 
does it belong ? Is it historical or natural ? Is it ancient 
or modern ? etc. A few objects do not belong clearly to 
either of these classes, or they touch, possibly, on all three ; 
but even these can be mastered. The questioners may con- 
sult openly about their que'stion before asking it, but the 
answerers must be very cautious in consultation lest they 
disclose too much. Among the more difficult subjects are 
such as a mummy, a tear, a blush, a smile, an echo, an ava- 
lanche, a drought, etc. Puns and evasive answers must not 
be used. 

The Secretary. — All the players sit at a table and are fur- 
nished with paper and pencil. Each writes his name, and 
having folded it back carefully, hands his paper to the secre- 
tary, who shuffles the papers, distributes them again, and 
says, " Character ;" whereupon each writes a supposed trait 
of character. The papers are again folded, reshuffled, and 
redistributed, when " Future" is announced, and each writes 
to this idea on his slip. Other points, not to exceed six in 
all, are named and written upon, and the whole list is then 
read from each paper, affording a most amusing record. 

* Rhyming Game. — The leader selects a word capable of 
many rhymes. Beginning with the first of the company, he 
says, for example, " I have a word that rhymes with one." 

" Is it a female recluse ?" asks the party addressed. 
\ " No, it is not a nun" is replied. Passing on to the second 
person, this one may ask, " Is it something good to eat ?" 

" No, it is not a bun" The third may ask, " Is it a heavy 
weight ?" 



GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 295 

" No, it is not a ton" The fourth may ask, " Is it some- 
thing that makes you laugh ?" 

" Yes, it is Fun" 

The party failing to question promptly pays a forfeit ; so 
does the leader if he fail to answer promptly. The party 
catching his word becomes the new leader. 

Acting Game. — Half the players go out of the room and 
those within decide on a word, telling the others a word 
with which it rhymes. The outer party then enter and act 
out a word which they suppose to be correct. For instance, 
if the word rhymes with main, the actors come in with 
umbrellas, overshoes, waterproofs, stepping carefully, etc., 
and the inside party says, " No, it is not rain" The outs 
retire to consult, and, returning with bags and baggage, imi- 
tate passengers hurrying to get on the cars. " No, it is not 
train." Again they retire, consult, and re-enter. One of 
them with a mock club strikes a companion, who falls to the 
ground. " Yes, it is Slain." The sides then exchange 
places. If the word is not guessed, either as announced by 
its rhyme or as acted, the party failing goes out again. 

Crambo. — Each player writes a noun and a question. All 
are then shuffled, nouns together and questions. Each 
player then draws one from each set of slips and writes four 
lines in rhyme, answering the question and introducing the 
word. The efforts to meet these requirements will provoke 
an abundance of fun. 

FUN IN GENERAL. 

Going to Jerusalem. — Place a row of chairs, alternating 
backs and fronts, and one less in number than the parties in 
the game. A march tune is then played, and the pilgrims 
move around the line of chairs. Suddenly the music stops, 
when each one tries to drop into a seat. Of course one 
person is left. He retires from the game and a chair is 



296 GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 

removed from the line. The music and marching are re- 
peated, and another party is dropped, and so on till one 
remains in occupancy of the one chair. This person is victor 
in the contest. 

Magic Music. — One person leaves the room and the others 
agree on something, no matter how difficult if only practi- 
cable, which he must do. He enters to music, which is loud 
as he nears his point of operation and soft as he departs. 
By this modulation he is guided to the thing desired and 
almost inevitably does in the end the precise act intended. 

Magnetized Cane. — Let a gentleman prepare beforehand 
by attaching to his pantaloons, above the knee and from one 
leg to the other, a fine black-silk strand about fifteen or 
eighteen inches long. Proposing in the company to mag- 
netize a cane, let him take such an article and rub it faith- 
fully. Then, standing it erect between his separated knees, 
and carefully poising it with his hands, let it lean against 
the sjtretched thread of silk. It will seem to stand alone, 
to the amazement of the uninitiated, who will struggle 
hard to accomplish the same feat. 

The Charmed Quarter. — Let the company select one of three 
quarter-dollars and mark it so as to know it certainly. The 
other two meanwhile are laid on a marble mantel. Let the 
company all handle the piece and examine the mark ; then, 
having tossed it into a hat — the other two quarters being 
lightly tipped into the same receptacle and all shaken up for 
an instant — a touch will indicate the marked coin, as by 
handling it will have become warm ; the others, by lying on 
the marble, having become cold. The detection is almost in- 
evitable. If it fail, more " magnetism," imparted by a longer 
holding of it in the hand of a spectator, will disclose the 
correct coin. 

Dynamite. — Cross three wooden toothpicks as if they 
were spokes in a wheel, but leave the side spaces larger 



GAMES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC. 



297 



than the other two. Cross two other picks over two ends 
of these and under one of them, so as to bind the five in a 




tight frame. On this lay a sixth toothpick to represent 
John Chinaman on his bed. Then apply a match to one 
end of the frame pieces. This represents the Hoodlum 



298 Games, amusements, etc. 

blowing up the Chinaman. When the fire creeps in to the 
point where the picks cross and bind each other, the spring 
of the wood will hurl the Chinaman high in the air, illustra- 
ting dynamite action, and causing a hearty laugh. 

Parlor Magic. — An immense amount of fun can be had by 
means of the parlor magic, or trick sets, to be had in great 
variety. Some of the exploits thus attainable are quite 
puzzling to the observer, especially if the manipulator be 
dexterous, and, withal, entertaining of speech. Sets of appa- 
ratus carry also complete instruction, but practice is needed 
to make perfect. 

Manuals on Games, Amusements, etc. — On all points of home 
amusement there are valuable treatises or manuals — some 
large, some small, but all suggestive. If enjoyment is 
sought in a house, the means of enjoyment must be studied. 
Study, therefore, to make home happy. 



NINTH DEPARTMENT. 



General Hints. 



So many and so rich are earth's resources, that, when the wisest man has 
wearied with his discourse, numberless things remain unsaid — yea, quite 
unthought of — by the sage. 

BUFFON. 



General Hints. 



AFTER the broad scope of this book has been covered, 
there still remain many things to be said. They are 
hardly worth discussion ; mere statement is sufficient. 
They are hints merely on a variety of subjects. Let it not 
be supposed that every suggestion here given has been 
subjected to test by the editor of the department. But 
every one has been culled from a trustworthy source and 
has been subjected to careful scrutiny. All of them are 
worth trying; but try them conscientiously. More pre- 
scriptions have failed from unskillful handling than from 
inherent defect. An Irish cook who delayed some fifteen 
minutes when his master had ordered a soft-boiled egg t 
excused himself by declaring that it had boiled fast all the 
time, but showed no signs whatever of becoming soft. So 
many other domestic manipulators fail. 

HINTS FOR THE KITCHEN. 

To Keep Meat Fresh. — Take a quart of best vinegar, two 
ounces of lump sugar, two ounces of salt. Boil these 
together for a few minutes, and when cold anoint with a 
brush the meat to be preserved. For fish the mixture is to 
be applied inside ; for poultry, both in and outside. Or : 
Place the meat in the centre of a clean earthenware vessel 
and closely surround it with common charcoal. Or : Cover 
the meat lightly with bran and hang it in some passage 
where there is a current of air. 

To Make Poultry Tender. — Give the fowl, shortly before 

killing, a tablespoonful of vinegar. 

301 



302 GENERAL HINTS. 

i 

To Test Mushrooms. — In eatable mushrooms the stalk and 
top are dirty white and the lower part has a lining of salmon 
fringe, which changes to russet or brown soon after they 
are gathered. The poisonous manifest all colors, and those 
which are dead white above and below should be let alone. 
Sprinkle salt on the spongy part, and if they turn yellow 
they are poisonous, but if they become black they are 
good. Let the salt remain on a little while before you 
decide on the color. Mushrooms are in season during 
September and October. 

To Keep Flour Sweet. — Insert a triangular tube of boards 
or tin bored full of small holes, into the centre of the barrel, 
which allows the air to reach the middle of the meal, and it 
never gets musty. A barrel of good flour, dry as it appears 
to be, contains from twelve to sixteen pounds of water. 

To Test Coal Oil. — Pour a little oil in an iron spoon and 
heat it over a lamp until it is moderately warm to the 
touch. If the oil produces vapor which can be set on fire 
by a flame held a short distance above the liquid, it is bad. 

To Remove Clinkers. — Throw half a dozen broken oyster 
shells into the fire when the coal is all aglow, and cover 
them with fresh coal. When all are red hot the clinkers 
become doughy, and are easily removed. 

Cheap Fire-Kindler. — Melt three pounds of rosin in a quart 
of tar, and stir in as much saw-dust and pulverized charcoal 
as you can. Spread the mass upon a board till cool, then 
break into lumps as big as your thumb. Light it with a 
match. 

To Keep a Broom. — If a broom be inserted every week in 
boiling suds, it will be toughened and last much longer, will 
not cut the carpet, and will remain elastic as a new broom. 

To Preserve Oil-cloths. — An oil-cloth should never be 
scrubbed ; but after being swept it should be cleaned with 



GENERAL HINTS. 303 

a soft cloth and lukewarm or cold water. Never use soap, 
or water that is hot. When dry, sponge it over with milk ; 
then wipe with a soft, dry cloth. 

To Prevent a Lamp from Smoking. — Soak the wick in vine- 
gar, and dry it well before using. 

To Remove Rust from Steel. — Cover with sweet oil, well 
rubbed on, and let it remain forty-eight hours, then rub 
with unslacked lime powdered fine. 

To Prevent Rust. — Take one pint of fat-oil varnish, mixed 
with five pints of highly rectified spirits of turpentine, and 
rub with a sponge on bright stoves or mathematical instru- 
ments, and they will never contract spots of rust. 

To Freshen Stale Bread or Cake. — Plunge the loaf one 
instant in cold water and lay it upon a tin in the stove for 
ten or fifteen minutes. It will be like new bread, without 
its deleterious qualities. Stale cake is thus made as nice as 
new cake. Use immediately. 

To Soften Hard Water. — Put half an ounce of quicklime in 
nine quarts of water. This solution in a barrel of hard 
water will make it soft. A teaspoonful of sal soda will 
soften from three to four pails of hard water. 

Time of Boiling Green Vegetables. — This depends very much 
upon the age, and how long they have been gathered. The 
younger and more freshly gathered, the more quickly they 
are cooked. The following is Miss Parloa's time-table for 
cooking : 

Potatoes, boiled, . . 30 minutes. 



Potatoes, baked, . . 45 minutes. 
Sweet Potatoes, boiled, 45 minutes. 
Sweet Potatoes, baked, . I hour. 
Squash, boiled, . . 25 minutes. 
Squash, baked, . . 45 minutes. 
Green Peas, boiled, 20 to 40 minutes. 
Shell Beans, boiled, . . I hour. 
String Beans, boiled, . 1 to 2 hours. 



Green Corn, 25 minutes to I hour. 
Asparagus, . . 15 to 30 minutes. 
Spinach, . . . . I to 2 hours. 
Tomatoes, fresh, ... I hour. 
Tomatoes, canned, . 30 minutes. 
Cabbage, . 45 minutes to 2 hours. 
Cauliflower, . . . I to 2 hours. 
Dandelions, . . . 2 to 3 hours. 



304 ; GENERAL HINTS. 

Keeping Hams. — After smoking, make coarse cotton cloth 
sacks so that one ham will go in easily, pack cut hay all 
around between the sack and the ham, tie the sack at the 
top, hang in a cool place, and be sure the sacks are whole. 

To Make Shirts Glossy. — Take of raw starch, one ounce ; 
gum arabic, one drachm ; white of egg, half ounce ; soluble 
glass, quarter of an ounce ; water. Make starch into fine 
cream, dissolve with gum in a little hot water, cool and mix 
it with the egg, and beat up the mixture with starch liquid; 
then add the water, glass (solution), and shake together. 
Moisten the starched linen with a cloth dipped in the liquid, 
and use polishing iron to develop gloss. 

Blackening Stoves. — If a little vinegar or cider is mixed 
with stove polish it will not take so much rubbing to make 
the stove bright, and the blackening is not likely to fly off 
in fine dust. 

Musty Coffee and Tea Pots. — These may be cleaned and 
sweetened by putting wood ashes into them and filling 
them with cold water. Set on the stove to heat gradually 
till the water boils. Let it boil a short time, then put aside 
to cool, when the inside should be faithfully washed and 
scrubbed in hot soap-suds. 

To Clean Pots and Kettles. — When washing greasy pots and 
kettles, take a handful of meal or bran and rub all around. 
It absorbs all the grease and leaves them perfectly clean. 

To Clean Ceilings Smoked by Kerosene Lamps. — Wash with a 
sufficiently strong solution of soda in water. 

To Prepare a New Iron Kettle for Use. — Fill with clean potato 
parings; boil them for an hour or more, then wash the 
kettle with hot water, wipe it dry, and rub it with a little 
lard ; repeat the rubbing half a dozen times after using. 

To Remove Fruit Stains. — Procure a bottle of Javelle water. 
If the stains are wet with this before the articles are put 



GENERAL HINTS. 305 

into the wash they will be completely removed. Those who 
cannot get Javelle water can make a solution of chloride of 
lime. Four ounces of the chloride of lime is to be put into 
a quart of water in a bottle, and after thoroughly shaking 
allow the dregs to settle. The clear liquid will remove the 
stains. Be careful to thoroughly rinse the article in clear 
water before bringing it in contact with soap. When Javelle 
water is used this precaution is not necessary; with chloride 
of lime liquid it is, or the article will be harsh and stiff. 

Washing. — To wash flannels : First, never apply soap 
directly to any woolen fabric. Make a strong, hot suds and 
plunge the garment in it. Second, never dip a flannel in 
cold, or even cool, water, but always hot. Wash first in hot 
suds and rinse in hot water made very blue. Third, dry 
flannels as quickly as possible. Wring dry from the second 
water and hang either in the hot sun or before a brisk fire. 
When nearly dry, press with a hot iron. None but soft 
water should be used upon flannels, and resin soap is much 
inferior to common soft soap, as it hardens the fibres of 
woolens. 

To wash chintz : Take two pounds of rice and boil it in 
two gallons of water till soft. When done, pour the whole 
in a tub ; let it stand till of about the warmth you use in 
general for colored linens ; then put the chintz in and use 
the rice instead of soap. Wash it in this till the dirt appears 
to be out ; then boil the same quantity, as above, but strain 
the rice from the water and mix it in warm, clear water. 
Wash in this till quite clean ; afterward rinse it in the water 
in which you have boiled the rice. This will answer the 
end of starch and no dew will affect it and it will be stiff as 
long as you wear it. 

To wash clothes without fading them : Peel Irish pota- 
toes and grate them in cold water. Saturate the articles to 
be washed in this potato-water and they can then be washed 



306 GENERAL HINTS. 

with soap without any running of the color. Oil may be 
taken out of carpets with this potato-water when simple cold 
water would make the color run ruinously. This will also 
set the color in figured black muslins, in colored merinos, 
in ribbons, and other silk goods. Often the potato-water 
cleanses sufficiently without the use of soap ; but the latter 
is necessary where there is any grease. When no soap is 
needed, take the grated potato and rub the goods with a 
flannel rag. 

Sour milk removes iron-rust from white goods. 

To make silk which has been wrinkled appear exactly like 
new, sponge it on the surface with a weak solution of gum 
arabic or white glue, and iron on the wrong side. 

A tablespoonful of black pepper put in the first water in 
which gray or buff linens are washed will keep them from 
spotting. It will also keep the colors of colored or black 
cambrics or muslin from running, and does not harden the 
water. 

To extract ink from cotton, silk, and woolen goods, satu- 
rate the spot with spirits of turpentine and let it remain 
several hours ; then rub it between the hands. It will dis- 
appear without injuring the color or texture of the fabric. 
For linen, dip the spotted part in pure tallow and the ink 
will disappear. 

When clothes have acquired an unpleasant odor by being 
kept from the air, charcoal laid in the folds will remove it. 

To take oil or grease from cloth : Drop on the spot 
some oil of tartar or salt of wormwood which has been left 
in a damp place until it is fluid ; then immediately wash the 
place with lukewarm soft water and then with cold water, 
and the spot will disappear. 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Acting Game, The 295 

Albertine Ware , 103 

Amusements, Games, etc . . . 205 

Aprons 20 

Aquariums 133 

Cement for .... 140 

Archery 205 

Artistic Architecture 106 

Autumn Leaves 127 

Aviaries 174 

Backgammon 273 

Russian .... 274 

Bad Habits in Children .... 236 

Bagatelle 274 

Base Ball 267 

Baskets, Fancy 150 

Scrap 150 

Work 150 

Bedroom Sets 68 

Bedsteads, Telescope 73 

Birds Have Feathers, Game of . 279 

Book Cases 61 

Racks 59 

Bouquet Making 1 27 

Brackets, Cabinets, etc 64 

Brooms, care of 20, 302 

Canary Birds 145 

Card Stands 149 

Care of Children 227 

Carpets 55 

Carved Pedestal 55 

Work 99 

Ceilings, Ornamented 98 

Charmed Quarter 296 

Chandeliers 102 

Checkers 273 

Chess 272 

Children, Ailings of 230 

Care of 227 

Clinkers, to Remove 302 

Closets 20 



PAGE. 

Clothing for Children .... 229 

Concert, Game of 280 

Consequences, Game of ... . 279 

Conversation 204 

Correspondence 218 

Courtship 214 

Covers for Tables 148 

Crambo 295 

Cricket 267 

Croquet 268 

Curtains 1 15 

Decoration, Home 81 

from Nature . . . 121 

of the White House 117 

Deportment in Public Places . . 215 

Dictionary, Game of 275 

Dining-room 64 

Dinners 211 

Dish-cloths 20 

Drainage 43 

Dress 192 

Dusters 21 

Dynamite Trick 296 

Early Schooling 239 

Easels 60 

Easy Chairs, Lounges, etc. . . " 78 

Emergencies, Trying 245 

Entering a Room 204 

Exterior Decorations 166 

Fancy Baskets 150 

Ferneries 136 

Fire Screens 152 

Fire — What to Do 261 

Floors, Inlaid 85 

Marble 82 

Wood Carpeting ... 86 

Floral Fancies 131 

Letters 130 

Flour, to Keep Sweet 302 

Flower Pots 122 

Flowers 178 

307 



308 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Flowers, Dried 129 

Food for Children 231 

Forfeits, Tasks for Redeeming . 290 

Formal Calls 207 

Four Elements, Game of . . .278 

Frescoed Walls 97 

Fruit-Basket, Game of ... . 286 

Fruit Table 147 

Fuel 21 

Furniture, Combination .... 70 

Games, Amusements, etc. . . . 263 

Gardens, French 179 

Italian 181 

Roman 183 

Gas Fixtures 67 

Heating Stoves ..... 32 

Works, Home 39 

General Hints 301 

Germicide 44 

Gerveta 97 

Going to Jerusalem, Game of . 295 

Gunshot Wounds 261 

Gypsy Kettles 1 27, 173 

Habits of Speech 190 

Hams, to Keep 304 

Handbags for Ladies 154 

Hand-shaking 203 

Hanging-baskets 142 

Hat Racks 52 i 

Heating 26 I 

Hedges 171 j 

Hereditary Influences .... 227 

Hidden Word, Game of . . . 288 

Hints on Home Work .... 20 

Holders 21 

Home Decoration 81 

Furnishing 49 

Government 242 

Necessities 13 

How? When? and Where? 

Game of 281 

Horrible Stories 237 

Hunt the Ring, Game of . . . 284 

Hunt the Whistle, Game of . . 282 

I Love My Love, Game of . . 284 

Illumination 35 

Initiation, Game of 287 

Introductions 199 

Ironing Tools 21 

Shirts 304 

Jardiniere Stands .... 55, 113 

Kerosene, to Test 302 

Key Game 278 

Kindling, Cheap ...... 302 



PAGE. 

Kitchens . 19 

Lamps, Artisan's 36 

Student's 37 

to prevent Smoking . . 303 

Gas Fixtures, etc. ... 67 

Landscape Gardening . . . . 181 

Lawns 168 

Lawn Tennis 272 

Library, The 63 

Lincrusta- Walton 94 

Longfellow's Home . . . Ill, 117 

Low-down Grate 27 

Magic Music . 296 

Parlor 298 

Magnetized Cane 296 

Mantel Decorations 146 

Marriage Anniversaries . . . . 214 

Meat, to Keep Fresh 301 

Menagerie, Game of 287 

Mosaic Work 84 

Mosses .- .... 175 

Mourning Attire 194 

Mushrooms, to Test ..... 302 

Music Portfolio . 54 

Stand 53 

Needle-books . 56 

Notes of Introduction, etc. . . 220 

Nursery, The 78 

Oil-cloths, Care of 302 

Paper and String 21 

Paper Hangings 56, 91 

Parlor 55 

Pedestals 55 

Perfumes 195 

Personal Habits 189 

Physical Development .... 241 

Pictures, etc . 112 

Pie-board 21 

Pin-cushions, Ornamental ... 156 

Plumbing, Good 42 

Polite Deportment 1 87 

Post, Game of 276 

Pots and Kettles .... 21, 304 

Pottery 103 

Poultry, to Make Tender . . . 301 

Proverbs, Game of 283 

Railroad Accidents 262 

Receptions 210 

Rhyming Game 294 

Ribbon Beds and Borders ... 182 

Rockeries 1 36, 184 

Rugs 88 

Rustic Chairs, etc 172 

Rust, to Prevent or Remove . . 303 



INDEX. 



309 



PAGE. 

Sanitary Conditions 41 

Scrap Baskets 150 

Secretary, Game of 294 

Servants' Rooms 78 

Sofas, Ornamental 1 58 

Soothing Sirups 238 

Stained Glass Windows .... 104 

Stains, to Remove 304 

Statuary 166 

Stoves, etc 26 

to Clean 304 

Tapestry, The Bayeux .... 159 

Teething 239 

Tiles 84 

Toilet Tables 157 

Transpositions, Game of . . . 285 

Traveling 217 

Traveling Secret, Game of . . 289 

Trying Emergencies 243 

Twenty Questions, Game of . . 294 

Upholstery 158 

Vanderbilt Mansions, The . 99, 118 

Vases for Gardens 166 

for Mantels 127 

Vegetables, How Long to Boil . 303 



1 PAGE. 

Ventilation 22, 233 

Vestibule Furniture 109 

Vines 186 

Visiting-cards 209 

Wall Pocket 153 

Walls, Frescoed 149 

Silk, Satin, or Lace . . 97 

Warming 26 

Washing 306 

Water Coolers 21 

Lilies 174 

to Soften Hard .... 303 

Weddings 215 

What Is My Thought Like? 

Game of 285 

Who Are You, Game of ... 277 

Where, What, Whom, Game of 286 

Whisks 21 

Window Gardens 121 

Words in a Word, Game of . . 289 

Work and Help 16 

Work Baskets 150 

Work-stand 61 

Yes and No, Game of .... 281 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 





013 514 847 7 



