CAUTION 

Do not write in this book or mark it with 
pen or pencil. Penalties are imposed by the 



Revised Laws of the Commonwealth of 
sachusetts, Chapter 208, Section 83. 



Ma 



U.0EC 7 



SEP - 



.9 



B.P.L. FORM NO. 609; 6.24.26; 400M. 



THE SKILFUL COOK 



gi Ijnttwal ItTmtuui of Jpfo&rrn f&^tAmz 



BY 



MISS MAEY HARBISON 

FIRST-CLASS DIPLOMEE, SOUTH KENSINGTON 
LECTURER ON HYGIENE, DOMESTIC ECONOMY, AND COOKERY 



l/JS 1 



'mm 



LONDON HO^Ll 



SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & EIVINGTON 

CROWN BUILDINGS, 188 FLEET STREET 

1884 



All rights reserved 



ilfi 







[J*- 



• • " ' ,• /5' 3 



TO 

HER ROYAL HIGHNESS 

THE PKINCESS CHKISTIAN 

WHOSE INTEREST IN EVERY GOOD AND USEFUL WORK 

HAS SO JUSTLY ENDEARED HER TO ALL 

CLASSES OP THIS NATION 

THIS WORK 

IS 

BY HER GRACIOUS PERMISSION 

BY HER 
HUMBLE AND OBEDIENT SERVANT 

MARY HARRISON 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 

Introduction 1 

Hints to Young Housekeepers . . . . . . 6 

Food and Diet 8 

The Table 13 

How to Cook 15 

how to clean stoves and cooking utensils . . . 19 

Kules for Boiling 22 

Rules for Roasting 23 

Rules for Frying 24 

Rules for Baking 26 

Rules for Grilling 27 

Rules for Broiling 27 

Joints 28 

Poultry and Game 32 

Savoury Meat Dishes 40 

Sauces 53 



vni CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

Breakfast Dishes and Beverages 69 

Cold Meat Cookery . . . ... . . . 84 

Entrees 92 

Fish Cookery .... Ill 

Pastry 133 

Puddings 151 

Vegetables 190 

Soups 203 

Bread and Cakes 226 

Jellies and Creams 243 

Soufflees and Omelets 263 

Invalid Cookery' 268 

Supper Dishes and Salads 277 

Miscellaneous Dishes 283 

Odds and Ends 288 

How to use up Fragments 291 

Forcemeats 293 

Preserves 295 

Menus . . . " 297 

Suppers 308 

INDEX 313 



THE SKILFUL COOK. 



INTRODUCTION. 

The importance of every woman having a thorough 
knowledge of domestic economy cannot be too strongly 
insisted on. The false refinement which, of late years, has 
considered an acquaintance with domestic matters to be 
only suitable for servants, has been fraught with the most 
disastrous consequences. This may seem strong language, 
but it is not too strong. All sanitary reformers know well 
enough that it is in the power of many women to prevent 
very many deaths, and an incalculable amount of misery 
and vice. Speaking of sanitary reform, the late Canon 
Kingsley says : — ' Women can do in that work what men 
cannot. The private correspondence of women, private 
conversation, private example of ladies, above all of married 
women, of mothers of families, may do what no legislation 
can.' And again, in the same speech, delivered on behalf 
of the Ladies' Sanitary Association, he says : — ' Ah ! would 
to God that some man had the pictorial eloquence to put 
before the mothers of England the mass of preventable 
agony of mind and body which exists in England, year 
after year : and would that some man had the logical 

B 



2 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

eloquence to make them understand that it is in their 
power, in the power of the mothers and wives of the 
higher classes — I will not say to stop it all, God only 
knows that— but to stop, as I believe, three-fourths of it.' 

This may seem to some, perhaps, too serious an intro- 
duction to a cookery book ; but it is my earnest wish that 
my book may not be simply a collection of recipes for 
cooks to refer to, but a real help to those women who, 
recognising the importance of good cookery in sanitary 
reform, are doing their utmost (as I know many are) to 
acquire that knowledge, and are thereby making the lives 
of those about them brighter and happier ; and are also by 
their examples doing an amount of good that they them- 
selves scarcely dream of. I have been told more than 
once by those benevolently interested in the working 
classes that with instruction to ladies on cookery they had 
no sympathy, and they seemed to think that it would be 
better if lessons on the subject were given exclusively to 
the poor. They forget that the wives of the working men 
are women who have most of them been domestic servants, 
and that what they learn in their situations, and what 
habits they there acquire, they take for good or evil into 
their own homes ; and in this way an ignorant careless 
mistress may be doing an infinitude of harm to her sister 
women in a lower position than herself. On the other 
hand, a mistress who understands thoroughly the manage- 
ment of a house, by wisely training her servants in habits 
of order and industry, by teaching them what they do not 
know and have had no opportunity of learning about hy- 
giene or the laws of health, may be — in fact cannot help 
being — a blessing indirectly to many homes. 

I believe that the working classes must be taught in 
this way if they are to be taught at all. I have myself, 
over and over again, tried to benefit my poorer sisters by 
giving them free lessons on food and cookery ; and although 



INTRODUCTION. 3 

I invariably find a few who are very grateful for such in- 
struction, the majority, I imagine, never trouble to put in 
practice what they have been taught. Their habits have 
been already formed, and it is not easy for them to alter 
them. But it is a significant fact that those who do value 
the lessons are generally respectable hardworking women » 
who have held good situations under good mistresses. 

I have also heard it very ignorantly objected by some 
that by teaching ladies how to cook, you are taking the 
bread out of the servants' mouths. This is, indeed, the 
conclusion of a shallow mind ; for with equal justice and 
good sense, it might be said that the owner of any large 
business was taking the bread out of his employes' 
mouths because he happened to be acquainted with all the 
details of his own business, and was able to see that those 
in his employment attended to their duties properly. But 
this, I suppose, everyone will admit, that the owner of any 
business ignorant of the management and details of it, 
would not unlikely one day find himself without any busi- 
ness to manage. And if this is true with regard to men's 
businesses, is it not equally so with regard to women's ? 

I have the greatest sympathy with servants, and would 
be the last to injure them in any way. A good servant is 
a treasure: and good work always deserves good wages. 
But the more a mistress knows of household work herself, 
the more is she likely to appreciate a servant who honestly 
and conscientiously performs her duties ; and by under- 
standing their difficulties, the more consideration is she 
likely to show to those in her employ. 

But there are some ladies to whom a knowledge of 
domestic economy ought to be especially invaluable — 
namely, those whose means are so limited that they cannot 
afford to engage servants who have had any great ex- 
perience, and, therefore, who keep only what is called a 
general servant, a term which often means a woman or 

b 2 



4 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

girl who will undertake to do everything, but who has only 
the vaguest notions of how anything should be done. 
They, poor things, have had no opportunity of learning in 
the homes from which they came. But it will be well for 
the poor ' General ' if her mistress can teach and train 
her ; for she will then leave her situation with knowledge 
and habits that will make her a valuable and useful 
woman, and be of the greatest service to her all her life. 

It is, however, quite surprising to see the rough way in 
which some people allow themselves to be served, and the 
muddle in which they prefer to live rather than do anything 
themselves that they consider menial ; as if an untidy house, 
slovenly servants, badly cooked and coarsely served food, 
are not likely to do much more to lower their self-respect 
than any amount of so-called drudgery. ' A gentlewoman,' 
it has been said, ' never lowers herself by doing that which 
would make her feel less a gentlewoman if left undone.' 

How much healthier and happier, too, many girls would 
be, if, instead of going out in all weathers, day after day, 
to earn a miserable pittance in any such employment as 
daily governesses, they would do some of the lighter house- 
work, cooking, &c, at home. By being able to do with 
one servant instead of two, they would save probably more 
than they could earn in other ways, besides being much 
stronger from the exercise thus taken. But too many 
girls are, unfortunately, imbued with the vulgar notion 
that work is not genteel. What a Moloch this gentility 
has been and still is ! What a number of human sacrifices 
are continually placed at its shrine, and what puppets its 
votaries become ! Mr. Smiles says : ' There is a dreadful 
ambition abroad for being " genteel." We keep up ap- 
pearances too often at the expense of honesty, and though 
we may not be rich, yet we must seem to be so. We must 
be " respectable," though only in the meanest sense — in 
mere vulgar outward show. We have not the courage to 



INTRODUCTION. 5 

go patiently onward in the condition of life in which it has 
pleased God to call us, but must needs live in some fashion- 
able state to which we ridiculously please to call ourselves ; 
and all to gratify the vanity of that unsubstantial genteel 
world of which we form a part.' 

It would effect a moral revolution if women would only 
look at matters in the true light. How much crime and 
misery may be traced to mismanaged unattractive homes ! 
How many deaths to the ignorance of hygiene ! How 
much intemperance to the physical depression caused by 
badly cooked food ! Let us hope that the refinement, 
falsely so called, which is only another name for vanity, 
laziness, and selfishness, may soon give way to the true 
refinement of heart and mind which considers nothing too 
menial which will benefit others ; nothing too common 
that will add to the happiness of our fellow-creatures. 

If we women could earnestly and courageously en- 
deavour to do the duty nearest to us, remembering that all 
honest work, of whatever kind, has been for ever ennobled 
by the great Founder of our Faith, so should we be, one 
in one way and one in another, ' helping to move (to quote 
Dean Goulburn) the wheels of the great world system 
whose revolutions are bringing on the kingdom of Christ.' 
' To be good and to be useful,' as Canon Kingsley says, 
1 are the two objects for which we were sent into this 
world.' 



THE SKILFUL COOK. 



HINTS TO YOUNG HOUSEKEEPERS. 

She looketh well to the ways of her household. 

Proverbs of Solomon. 

Take care that you know definitely what sum you can afford 
to spend on your household expenses, and make it a point 
of conscience never to exceed it. Market with ready money, 
if possible ; but, if it is more convenient to pay by the month, 
or quarter, never make that an excuse for letting your bills 
mount up to double what you can afford to pay. With 
accounts, carefully kept, it is quite possible to regulate the 
expenditure to the income. 

Never order things at random, but inquire the price of 
everything before purchasing. Take every pains to know 
how to judge of the quality of meat, groceries, &c, so that 
you may not be imposed on. Never be ashamed to say you 
cannot afford to have this or that. To be poor may be a 
misfortune, but it is not a fault ; and, indeed, to be rich is 
often a far greater misfortune. The discipline of poverty, 
and the self-denial it involves, will often strengthen a 
character which the luxury of riches would enervate. 

Cultivate sufficient independence of character to enable 
you to form your household, and regulate your expenses 
according to your own means, and not according to the in- 
come of your neighbours. What does it matter if some may 
sneer at your thread-bare carpets and frugal fare ? The 
approval of your own conscience is of far more importance 
than the friendship of the vulgar-minded. Above all things 
keep your accounts most strictly. Without this you are 



HINTS TO YOUNG HOUSEKEEPERS. 

like a mariner without a compass, or chart, you don't kno\ 
where you are or what is your position, and you will find 
yourself, before long, on the rocks of debt and difficulty. 
Extravagant housekeeping has been the cause of the most 
serious evils ; and, if persisted in, will be sure, in time, to 
wreck the peace and happiness of yourself and family. 

Extravagance is, no doubt, often the result of mere 
thoughtlessness, but that does not mend matters. There 
is as much evil wrought by want of thought as by want of 
heart. If it is true that there is but one step between the 
sublime and the ridiculous, it is equally true that there is 
but one step between folly and wickedness. Therefore, all 
young housekeepers ought to give earnest attention to the 
management of their affairs, for certainly in these matters 
the ' wise woman buildeth her house, while the foolish 
plucketh it down with her hands.' 



THE SKILFUL COOK. 



FOOD AND DIET. 



The human body is constantly wearing out. With every 
movement, every breath drawn, there is some waste of its 
substance. To repair this waste, and, in the case of children, 
to provide material for their growth, a certain amount of 
food should be taken daily. The food taken should consist 
of such qualities as will make flesh and muscle ; such as 
will also keep up the heat of the body, and give force, or 
the power of movement. These foods must contain a certain 
quantity of liquid, and the salts necessary to keep the blood 
pure. 

Table of Foods. 



Flesh-forming or Nitrogenous. 


Heat-giving or Carbonaceous. 


Examples — Meat 


Examples — 


Poultry 


Butter 


Fish 


Suet 


Game 


Dripping 


Eggs 


. And fat of all kinds 


Cheese 


Sugar in whatever 


Flour 


form 


Oatmeal 


Starch, which is con- 


Barley 


tained in all vege- 


Bice 


tables 


Peas 




Beans 




Lentils 





The foods under the head of flesh-formers, although 
classed as flesh-formers, are really compound foods. They 



FOOD AND DIET. 9 

contain some heat-giving as well as flesh -forming pro- 
perties. 

The heat-giving foods, on the contrary, are all simple foods. 
Life could not be sustained on any one of them alone, what- 
ever quantity might be taken. These facts are sufficient to 
show the necessity of a mixed diet. Professor Church says 
in his lectures on this subject : ' Our food must be palat- 
able, that we may eat it with relish, and get the greatest 
nourishment from it. The flavour and texture of food, its 
taste, in fact, stimulates the production of those secretions 
— such as the saliva and the gastric juice — by the action of 
which the food is digested or dissolved, and becomes finally 
a part of the body, or is assimilated. As food, then, must 
be relished it is desirable that it should be varied in cha- 
racter — it should neither be restricted to vegetable products 
on the one hand, nor to animal substances (including milk 
and eggs) on the other. By due admixture of these, and 
by varying, occasionally, the kind of vegetable or meat taken, 
or the modes of cooking adopted, the necessary constituents 
of a diet are furnished more cheaply, and at the same time 
do more efficiently their proper work. Now, if we were to 
confine ourselves to wheaten bread, we should be obliged to 
eat in order to obtain our daily supply of albuminoids, or 
' flesh-formers,' nearly 41b. — an amount that would give us 
nearly twice as much of the starchy matters which should 
accompany the albuminoids — or, in other words, it would 
supply not more than the necessary daily allowance of nitro- 
gen,hui almost twice the necessary daily allowance of carbon. 
Now animal food is generally richer in albuminoid, or nitro- 
genous constituents, than vegetable food ; so, by mixing- 
lean meat with our bread, we may get a food in which the 
constituents correspond better to our requirements ; for 21b. 
of bread may be substituted by 12 oz. of meat, and yet all 
the necessary carbon as well as nitrogen be thereby supplied. 
As such a substitution is often too expensive, owing to the 



10 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

high price of meat — cheese, which is twice as rich in nitro- 
genous matters (that is flesh-formers) as butchers' meat, 
may be, and constantly is, employed as a complete diet, and 
for persons in health, doing hard bodily work, it affords 
suitable nourishment. Even some vegetable products, rich 
in nitrogen, as haricot beans, may be used in the same way 
as meat or cheese, and for the same purpose. 1 

It is a pity that the value of haricot beans, peas, lentils, 
and oatmeal is not more generally known. One writer says 
that there is as much nourishment in lib. of either of these 
as in 31b. of lean meat ; and in a lecture on the same subject, 
another writer states that in three farthings' worth of oat- 
meal there is as much nourishment as in a mutton chop. 
These are certainly facts which should be known, especially 
by people of limited means. Macaroni and semolina are 
also valuable foods ; they are prepared from the most 
nutritious part of the wheat grain. Bice and maize are 
deficient in flesh-forming properties, but useful as heat- 
giving foods ; so are, also, tapioca, cornflour, and sago. 

Potatoes and fresh vegetables contain but little nourish- 
ment. They must not, however, be despised on that account, 
as they are most valuable additions to our daily diet on ac- 
count of the potash and other salts which they contain. 
These vegetables help to keep the blood pure. The anti- scor- 
butic properties of the potato are so great, that since its 
introduction into England leprosy is said to have entirely 
disappeared ; neither is scurvy the scourge it was formerly. 

The food taken daily should be in proportion to the work 
done. A labouring man, for example, working hard each 
day, would require such foods as liver and bacon, steak, 
bullock's heart, beans, peas, cheese, hard-boiled eggs, &c. ; 
foods, in fact, that would not be too easily digested. Hard 
work causes the food to be assimilated more readily. A too 
easily digested fare would cause a constant feeling of hunger. 
1 Church On Food. 



FOOD AND DIET. 11 

For anyone, on the contrary, leading a sedentary life, the 
food taken could not be too digestible. In that case, mutton, 
plainly cooked chicken, soles, milk puddings, and lightly 
boiled eggs should be the kind of viands chosen. 

Children should have plain wholesome fare. Oatmeal 
and bread are both excellent foods for them. The lime they 
contain hardens their bones. The bread should be made 
from seconds flour, which contains more flesh-forming and 
mineral matter than the whiter and more sifted kinds. 

Children should also have plenty of good milk. This is 
of the greatest importance, especially for the first months 
of a child's life. Milk is the only perfect food, and contains 
all that is necessary to sustain healthy life. It is also the 
only food a child can properly digest, until it cuts its teeth. 
The improper feeding of children is the great cause of infant 
mortality. When it becomes advisable to add to milk other 
foods, they should be nutritious and well cooked. Fine oat- 
meal or baked flour are, perhaps, the two best. Dr. 
Fothergill says : ' Children fed on the food of their seniors, 
or rich cake, and crammed with sweeties, do not as a rule 
thrive well. They cannot compare favourably with children 
fed on oatmeal, maize, and milk. Oatmeal is recovering 
its position as a nursery food, after its temporary banish- 
ment. Oatmeal porridge is the food par excellence of the 
infants born north of the Trent, or was, at least, and 
stalwart people were the results.' 

There is no doubt oatmeal is an excellent food, not for 
children only, but for everyone, especially for those who 
work hard. It is much to be regretted that it is not more 
universally used. The English, as a rule, eat too much 
animal food ; and do not give sufficient attention to the 
proper preparation of vegetables. 

Oatmeal water is considered a most strengthening 
beverage, and is used by men in foundries when beer and 
fermented liquors would be found too heating. 



12 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Of alcoholic drinks, Mr. Buckmaster says (echoing the 
opinion of eminent physiologists) : ' Beer, wine, and 
spirits are never to be regarded as foods. Their popular 
use is entirely due to their stimulating properties. They 
contain no nitrogen, and are therefore not flesh-formers, nor 
can they add anything to the wasting tissues. All stimu- 
lants act* by increasing, for a time, the vitality of the body ; 
but this activity is always followed by depression in propor- 
tion to the previous excitement. Tea and coffee do, to 
some extent, prevent waste ; but their value as foods depends 
mainly on the sugar and milk taken with them ; and their 
use, instead of food, is almost as hurtful as intoxicating 
drinks. Cocoa differs very much from either tea or coffee, 
since it is a nutritious liquid food.' 

In a lecture on the action of alcohol upon health, Sir 
Andrew Clark says of health : ' That it is a state which 
cannot be benefited by alcohol in any degree.' He also 
states : ' It is capable of proof, beyond all possibility of 
question, that alcohol, in ordinary circumstances, not only 
does not help work, but is a serious hindrance of luork.' 

These facts are so important, and ought to be so uni- 
versally known, that it is to be hoped before long the 
chemistry of food will occupy the place it should as one of 
the most necessary branches of everyone's education. 



13 



THE TABLE. 

A properly cooked meal, and a neatly arranged dinner-table, are 
helps to the happiness and moral progress of the humblest of 
families. — Buckmastee. 

A really capable housekeeper will not be satisfied with 
good cookery only. She will be careful to have each dish 
nicely served, however plain it may be. Culture, or the 
want of it, will be seen at once in the appointment of her 
table. This remark does not apply to a profusion of glass, 
silver, or flowers — these are questions of wealth — but to 
the neatness and order with which a table is laid, and the 
manner in which the meal is served. 

Some people are particularly sensitive to external im- 
pressions ; and to them a dinner, or any other meal, how- 
ever costly, served in an untidy room, with table-cloth 
soiled, silver tarnished, glasses smeared, and above all a 
slovenly servant, would be enough to give a feeling of 
depression that would anything but aid digestion. 

A great point to be attended to is to have everything 
perfectly clean and orderly, however old and plain. Clean 
table-cloths make a wonderful difference to the look of a 
table ; a few flowers also will do much to give it a bright 
appearance. Servants should be neat in their dress, and 
quiet in their movements. If only one is kept, that is no 
reason why she should wait at table in a slovenly dress and 
with ruffled hair. 

The dining-room should be, if possible, a bright room 
with a good aspect. Heavy, sombre furniture, however 



14 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

fashionable, should be avoided. It is unfortunate that so 
little attention is paid to the influence of colour ; a warm 
colouring will do much to give a bright look to a room 
which would otherwise be dull. 

The influence of the mental emotions on the digestion 
is so great that it is important that the conversation at 
meals should be as cheerful as possible, and no unpleasant 
subject should be discussed : anything that disturbs the 
appetite disturbs the digestion also. 

With these points carefully attended to — a bright 
room, neatly-laid table, well-cooked food, and cheerful con- 
versation — dinner, or any other meal, will become what it 
should be, a refreshment to both mind and body. 



15 



HOW TO COOK. 
Hints to Beginners. 

A few hints to beginners on the proper way to set about 
their work may be, perhaps, of some use ; as I know 
many people get disgusted with cookery at the very outset, 
and after one attempt, form a resolution never to enter the 
kitchen again. They have spent the whole morning trying 
to make a single dish, and that has proved a failure ; they 
have become hot, tired, and irritable, and ill able to bear 
the laughter their failure has excited. There has been a 
waste of material to no purpose, and they conclude, there- 
fore, that it is useless for them to make any further at- 
tempts. At any rate, they determine that they will not 
try again ' just yet ; ' and that often means that they do 
not try again at all. This disappointment and fatigue is 
generally the result of want of method and forethought. 
A recipe has been taken into the kitchen to be tried ; very 
probably one half of the terms used in it have not been 
understood by the would-be cook. She at once begins to 
make the dish, going to the recipe to look for each article 
required as she wants to use it. If some of the supplies 
have run short, she has perhaps to wait in the middle of 
her operations while she sends to purchase them. More- 
over, when the cake, pastry, or whatever it may be, is 
made, the fire has very likely been forgotten. In this way, 
even if the dish has been properly prepared, it is often 
spoiled in the cooking. 



16 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Those, too, who have some knowledge of the art and, 
perhaps, can cook fairly well, will often find the work a 
great fatigue and toil. They spend double or treble the 
time they need in the kitchen, just for the want of a little 
judicious management. 

Before trying a recipe read it over, carefully notice how 
a dish is to be cooked, and make up the fire accordingly. 
If it is pastry, take means to get the oven hot ; if a boiled 
pudding, make a good fire, and put a large saucepan of 
water on to cook it in before doing anything else. When 
this most important matter is attended to, put all the 
materials required on the table with the weights and 
scales ; notice what cooking utensils will be required, see 
that they are all clean and ready for use, and put them 
near to hand. If, for example, you want to make a cake, 
proceed in this manner : — Attend first to the fire to get 
the oven lightly heated, then put out the weights and 
scales and all necessary materials ; put a basin on the 
table for mixing, two or three cups for breaking eggs in, 
one or two plates to put the different ingredients on as 
they are measured, a grater, and anything else that may 
be required. Then carefully weigh the materials, taking 
the exact quantities named in the recipe. Prepare them 
all before mixing any of them. Wash and pick over the 
currants, and while they are drying, cut up all the candied 
peel ; beat up the eggs, and grease and prepare the cake- 
tin. The butter should then be rubbed into the flour, and 
the other dry ingredients should be added. The cake 
should then be quickly mixed, put into its tin, and placed 
at once in a hot oven. 

If several dishes are to be made, a little thought before- 
hand will often prevent a very great deal of fatigue and 
waste of time. Suppose, for example, that you wish to 
prepare two or three dishes for supper and to make some 
cakes for tea. You have, perhaps, decided to have a 



HOW TO COOK. 17 

chicken coated with Bechamel sauce, a gdteau of apples 
with whipped cream, a custard pudding, and some rock 
cakes. Make, the day before, if possible, a list of the 
articles required for the different dishes, and order what is 
necessary in good time, so that there may be no delay the 
next morning. Have the kitchen quite clear from all litters 
before you begin to work. No one can cook well in a 
muddle. Then commence operations by making up the 
fire and putting a saucepan of stock, or water, on to boil 
for the chicken. Next put the gelatine to soak for the 
gdteau, not forgetting a little in the Bechamel sauce. The 
longer gelatine soaks, the more quickly it will dissolve. 
Then slice the apples and put them to stew with the sugar, 
so that they may be cooking while you are preparing 
something else. Afterwards truss the chicken ; and pro- 
bably, by the time it is ready, the water or stock in the 
saucepan will be boiling. Put the chicken into it to sim- 
mer gently, noticing the time, so that it may not be over- 
cooked. Then prepare the ingredients for the rock cakes ; 
mixing them — as they require a quick oven — before the 
pudding. While they are cooking, prepare the custard ; 
and by the time it is made, the cakes, if the oven is pro- 
perly hot, will be sufficiently set to admit of the heat being 
moderated. Now make the Bechamel sauce ; strain it and 
add the dissolved gelatine. Take up the chicken, remove 
the skewers, place it on a dish, and coat it nicely with the 
sauce. Then rub the apples through the sieve, and finish 
making the gdteau. By this time the chicken, gdteau, and 
rock cakes are made, and the custard will be cooking. 
While waiting for the custard, whip the cream for the 
gdteau and put it on a sieve to drain ; prepare any decora- 
tions you may intend to put on the fowl, and lay them on 
a plate near to it in the pantry, ready to put on just before 
serving. Everything will now be ready. With just a little 
management, even a slow worker would scarcely take a 

o 



18 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

longer time to make these dishes than an hour and a 
half. 

Whatever failures and disappointments you may meet 
with at first, do not be discouraged. Success is certain if 
you will only have a little patience and perseverance. Do 
not be disheartened because you feel very awkward, and 
because you not unfrequently forget the oven, and let your 
cakes and pastry burn. Try not to mind the banter of 
your relations and friends at any possible failure. Many 
well-meaning efforts to acquire this useful knowledge have 
been nipped in the bud by the thoughtless, silly way in 
which some people will laugh at any mistake or blunder. 
A cake which has caught in baking, or a pudding with the 
sugar left out, will probably afford them an inexhausti- 
ble subject of mirth. Make up your mind, however, not 
to be discouraged by any of these things. Practice will 
give nimbleness to your fingers and strength to your 
memory. As regards any laughter your mistakes may 
cause, only persevere, and it will not be long before the 
laugh will be on your side. But keep in mind in any of 
your attempts that you must be exact in all you do. If 
you try to cook without paying strict attention to weights 
of the materials to be used and to the other directions, you 
will deserve to fail. Be very particular in measuring 
quantities ; bear in mind that carelessness in this respect 
is no mark of a superior cook as some people imagine, but 
rather of a careless or ignorant one. 

As whatever is worth doing at all is worth doing well, 
bring all your intelligence to bear upon what you take 
in hand. 



19 



HOW TO CLEAN STOVES AND COOKING 
UTENSILS. 

Iron Saucepans. 

Immerse them in a pan of hot water with soda in it, and 
wash them thoroughly inside and out, taking care that 
nothing is left sticking to the bottom of the saucepans. If 
anything has been burnt in them, boil some strong soda 
and water in them before washing them, and then rub the 
bottom of the saucepan with sand until it is quite clean. 
The sand must be used nearly dry ; if too much wetted it 
loses its power. 

The saucepan lids should be thoroughly rinsed and dried. 

Enamel Saucepans. 

Wash them thoroughly in hot water with soda in it, 
using soap if necessary. If anything has been burnt in the 
saucepan, boil strong soda and water in it before cleaning 
it, and rub it well with sand. Rinse and dry thoroughly. 

Anglo-American Saucepans. 

Clean like enamel saucepans. They should be kept 
perfectly clean inside and out. 

Tin Saucepans. 

Clean these like iron saucepans. 

c 2 



20 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Dish Covers and Jelly Moulds. 

Wash with soap and water and dry thoroughly. Pow- 
der some whiting, and mix with a little cold water ; 
brush the mixture over the covers and moulds ; when 
dry, rub off with a plate brush or soft cloth or leather. 



To Clean a Roaster. 

Wash the dripping-pan and inside of the roaster with 
hot water and soda to remove all grease, then rub them 
with sand until they are quite bright, rinse and dry 
thoroughly. Clean the outside of the roaster with whiting, 
used according to directions given for cleaning dish 
covers. 

Hair and Wire Sieves. 

Wash these thoroughly with hot water with soda in it, 
and scrub them quite clean with a sieve-brush. Dry them 
thoroughly, and keep them in a dry place. If this is not 
done a hair sieve will get mildewed, an iron one rusty, and 
a copper one will verdigris and become poisonous. Copper- 
wire sieves should always have especial care. 



Paste Boards and Rolling Pins. 

Scrub them well with hot water and sand. Do not use 
soda, as it will make the wood yellow. 



Baking Tins. 

Wash them in hot water with soda in it, and rub with 
sand until they are bright ; rinse and dry well. 



HOW TO CLEAN STOVES AND COOKING UTENSILS. 21 



To Clean a Close Stove or Open Range. 

Scrape out all the ashes and brush up all the dust. 
Then, with a brush, thoroughly clean the flues. Brush the 
stove over with liquid blacklead, and when it is dry polish 
with brushes. Then clean any steel about the stove and 
the fire-irons and fender with emery-paper ; any brass with 
brick-dust well rubbed on with a leather. 

Brush all the dust from the oven, and wipe it round 
with a cloth wrung out of hot water. 



To Clean a Gas Stove. 

Wash off any grease that may have been spilled on the 
stove with a cloth dipped in hot water, and wipe the inside 
of the stove, taking care to dry it thoroughly. Wash the 
dripping-pan in hot water with soda in it, and rub it with 
sand to brighten it. Then wipe it quite dry. 

Brush the stove over with liquid blacklead, and polish 
it with brushes. 

Copper Cooking Utensils. 

Wash them well in hot water with soda in it ; moisten 
some salt with vinegar, and rub them well with this to 
remove stains and tarnish. Then wash them quickly with 
soap and water, and dry them thoroughly ; polish them 
with a little powdered whiting rubbed on with a soft 
leather. 



22 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



RULES FOR BOILING. 

All meat, with the exception of salt meat, should be put 
into boiling water, and should be well boiled for quite five 
minutes, in order that the albumen on the outside of the 
joint may be set. The hardened albumen forms a kind of 
casing. This casing serves to keep in, as far as possible, the 
flavour and juices of the meat. When the meat has been 
boiled sufficiently long to effect this hardening, the kettle 
should be drawn to one side of the fire. The water should 
be kept at simmering point until the joint is cooked. The 
general rule, as regards time required for boiling, is a 
quarter of an hour for each pound of meat and a quarter of 
an hour over. But only general rules can be given, as the 
time will vary according to the nature of the joint to be 
cooked. A thick piece of meat will necessarily take longer 
to cook than a thin piece with much bone, although both 
may be the same weight. Very fresh meat will also take 
longer to cook than that which has been hung. 

As soon as the water boils, after the meat is in it, the 
scum should be carefully removed from time to time, while 
it is cooking. If the scum be allowed to boil down, it will 
settle on the joint and discolour it. It is best, however, as 
a precaution, to wrap the meat in a very clean cloth ; this 
will effectually preserve its colour. Salt meat should be put 
into lukewarm water, for the purpose of drawing out some 
of the salt. It should be simmered gently, allowing always 
twenty minutes to the pound, and twenty minutes over. 
Salt hardens the fibre of the meat ; it, therefore, requires to 
be cooked for a longer time to make it tender. 



23 



RULES FOR ROASTING. 

To roast successfully, make up a nice clear fire. When 
once made up, it should be replenished, if necessary, by 
putting on coal or coke at the back. The live coals should 
be drawn to the front to prevent smoke. Fasten the joint 
to the jack. Place the roaster close to the fire for the first 
ten minutes, so that the heat of the fire may at once harden 
the albumen, and form a case to keep in the flavour and 
juices. Afterwards, draw the roaster farther back and cook 
gradually, basting every ten minutes. The basting keeps 
the meat from drying up, and gives it a better flavour. The 
length of time allowed for roasting is the same as for boiling, 
the rule being a quarter of an hour for each pound, and a 
quarter of an hour over. For white meat, veal and pork, or 
solid joints without bone, allow twenty minutes to the pound, 
and twenty minutes over. These rules, however, cannot 
always be strictly adhered to, as the size and shape of the 
joint must be taken into consideration, as well as the weight. 
Meat that has been frozen will take longer to cook than 
fresh meat. Meat which has been well hung will take a 
shorter time than fresh meat. If a jack is not used, the 
joint should be fastened to a rope of worsted, which should 
be kept constantly turning. 

Gravy, for a joint, may be made according to two 
methods. The first method is to take the dripping-pan 
away half an hour before the joint is cooked, then to put a 
hot dish in its place, and to pour the contents of the pan 
into a basin. Put the basin into a refrigerator ; or, place 
it on ice. As soon as it is cold, the fat will cake on the top 
of the gravy, and should be removed very carefully. Make 



24 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

the gravy hot, diluting it with warm water, if necessary, 
and pour it round the joint. 

The other and more usual method of making gravy, is 
to pour away all the fat from the pan as soon as the joint 
is cooked ; and then pour into the pan a sufficient quantity 
of hot water, scraping well the brown glaze from the bottom ; 
colour carefully with caramel, or burnt sugar, and pour it 
round the joint, not over it. Pouring the gravy over the 
meat destroys its crispness. 

On no account make gravy from stock ; stock is quite 
unsuitable, as tlie vegetable flavour is, to many persons, 
disagreeable. 



RULES FOR FRYING. 
French or Wet Frying. 

This is cooking in a large quantity of fat sufficient to cover 
the articles fried in it. Oil, lard, dripping, or fat rendered 
down, may be used for this purpose. Oil is considered the 
best, as it will rise to 600° without burning ; other fats get 
over-heated after 400°, and therefore require greater care 
in using. Success depends, almost entirely, on getting the 
fat to the right degree of heat. For ordinary frying, the 
heat required is 345°. Unless this point is carefully attended 
to, total failure will be the result. There are signs, how- 
ever, by which anyone may easily tell when the fat is ready 
for use. It must be quite still, making no noise ; noise, or 
bubbling, will be caused by the evaporation of moisture, or 
water in it. The expression, ' boiling lard,' or ' boiling fat,' 
has been misleading to many inexperienced cooks, who, not 
unnaturally, imagine that when the fat is bubbling, like 
boiling water, it is boiling, and, therefore, at the right heat. 



FRENCH OE WET FKYING. 25 

But boiling fat does not bubble. When it has the appear- 
ance of boiling water, it is simply clue, as already explained, 
to the presence of water in it, which must pass away by eva- 
poration, before the fat can reach the required heat. When 
it ceases to make any noise, and is quite still, it should be 
carefully watched ; for very soon a pale blue vapour is seen 
rising, and then the fat is sufficiently hot. If, from the 
position of the stove, it is not easy to see this vapour, a 
piece of bread may be held in the fat as a test ; if it begins 
to turn brown, in about a minute, the fat is ready. It 
should then be used without delay ; since, when once hot 
enough, it rapidly gets overheated or burnt. Fat is burning 
when the blue vapour becomes like smoke. Burnt fat has 
an unpleasant smell, and is apt to give a disagreeable taste 
to the articles fried in it. With ordinary care fat need not 
get overheated. Next to oil, fat rendered down (see Bender- 
ing down Fat), is best for the purpose. If strained after 
each time of using, and not allowed to burn, it will keep 
good for months, and may be used for fish, sweets, or 
savouries, and no taste of anything previously fried in it 
will be given to the articles cooked. For this kind of frying, 
a kitchener, or gas stove, is preferable to an open range. 

All kinds of rissoles, croquettes, fillets and cutlets offish, 
fritters, &c, should be fried in this manner, and should not 
be darker than a golden brown. It is an advantage to use 
a frying-basket for all such things as are covered with egg 
and bread-crumbs ; but fritters, or whatever is dipped in 
batter, should be dropped into the fat, as they become so 
light that they rise to the top of it. When they are a pale 
fawn colour on the one side, they should be turned over to 
the other. Care must be taken to drain everything, after 
frying, on kitchen paper in order to remove any grease. 



26 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Dry Frying. 

This is frying in a cutlet or frying pan, with a small 
quantity of fat, and is only suitable for such things as 
require slow cooking, such as steaks, mutton or veal cutlets, 
fillets of beef, liver and bacon. Pancakes also are fried in 
this manner. Success depends, as in French frying, in 
having the fat rightly heated, taking care that the outside 
of the meat cooked be sealed up. In this way the juices 
and flavour will be retained in it. Make, therefore, the 
frying-pan hot, then put in the fat ; and when that is also 
perfectly hot, put in the meat to be cooked. When each 
side has been well sealed up, the heat applied must be 
moderated, so that the cooking may be gradual. The 
common mistake in this kind of frying is to put the meat 
into the fat when it is but barely melted ; the juices of the 
meat are thus allowed to escape, and the meat is toughened. 



RULES FOR BAKING. 

To bake meat successfully, the oven must be well ventilated, 
otherwise, the joint cooked in this manner will have an 
unpleasant flavour. The meat should be put on a trivet, 
which should be placed on a baking- tin. The oven must 
be very hot when the meat is put into it, and the heat 
should be kept up for the first quarter of an hour. This is 
to form the casing already alluded to in the directions for 
roasting and boiling ; the heat of the oven must then be 
very much moderated, and the joint cooked very gradually, 
allowing twenty minutes for every pound, and twenty 
minutes over. The meat should be basted ; and the gravy 
may be made in the same manner as in roasting. 



27 



RULES FOR GRILLING. 

For this method of cookery, a clear fire is essential. The 
griller is warmed, and the meat fastened in it. It is then 
hung on the bars of the fireplace, and a dish passed under- 
neath to catch any gravy. An ordinary sized chop, cooked 
in this way, will take about five minutes on the one side, 
and three on the other. 



RULES FOR BROILING. 

This is cooking over the fire on a gridiron. The flavour of 
broiled meat is usually preferred to that of grilled. Put the 
gridiron over the fire to heat, and then put the chop, 
or steak, on it ; place the gridiron close to the fire at first, 
that the heat may rapidly seal up the outside of the meat. 
When this has been accomplished, lift the gridiron further 
from the fire, and cook gradually, turning occasionally. A 
clear fire is essential. Coke is better than coal for broiling, 
because there is less smoke from it. 



28 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



JOINTS. 



Sirloin of Beef. 

This is the primest joint, and must be either roasted or 
baked (see directions). Horse-radish should be served 
with it. Yorkshire pudding is also liked with roast beef. 

Ribs of Beef. 

These should be cooked like sirloin, and served with the 
same accompaniments. A neater looking joint is made by 
boning and rolling them. The bones can be used for soup. 

Aitch Bone, Round, Thick and Thin Flank 
of Beef. 

These are usually salted and boiled (see directions 
for boiling salt meat). Serve with carrots and turnips, and 
yeast, Norfolk, or suet dumplings. 

Brisket of Beef. 

This should be stewed (see directions for stewed 
brisket). 

Leg of Mutton. 

This may be roasted, baked, or boiled. If roasted, it 
should be served with red-currant jelly ; if boiled, with 
caper sauce. Carrots and turnips are liked with boiled 
mutton. 



JOINTS. 29 

Shoulder of Mutton. 

This may be either roasted or baked. Serve with onion 
sauce. 

Saddle of Mutton. 

This may be either roasted or baked. Serve with red- 
currant jelly. 

Neck of Mutton. 

This is boiled, and requires long and gentle cooking. 
Serve with caper sauce. 

Fore Quarter of Lamb. 

This joint should be roasted or baked. Serve with mint 
sauce. 

Leg of Lamb. 

This may be either roasted, baked, or boiled. Serve, if 
roast, with mint sauce ; and if boiled, with maitre cVlwtel 
sauce. 

Shoulder of Lamb, 
Saddle of Lamb, Loin of Lamb. 

All these are either roasted or boiled, and served with 
mint sauce. 

Fillet of Veal. 

Stuff it with veal stuffing and make into nice round 
shape ; fasten it securely with string and skewers, and roast 
or bake it. Serve with cut lemon, and send some boiled 
ham, pork, or bacon to table with it. Use a pint of thin 
melted butter, instead of water, for making the gravy. 

Breast, Shoulder, and Loin of Veal. 

These are all roasted. Thin melted butter is used to 
make the gravy for them, and cut lemon is served with 
them. 



30 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Knuckle of Veal. 

This is boiled, and served with one dessertspoonful of 
chopped parsley added to one pint of melted butter. 

Leg of Pork. 

This must be roasted or baked, the skin having been 
previously scored with a knife. Serve it with apple sauce. 

Chine of Pork. 

Stuff it with pork stuffing (see Forcemeats) and roast it. 
Serve with apple sauce. 

Spare Rib of Pork. 

This is roasted, the skin having previously been scored. 
Serve it with apple sauce. 

Hand of Pork. 

Soak it for two or three hours before cooking, and boil 
it. Serve with pease pudding. 

Leg of Pork. 

This joint is also salted and boiled. It is served with 
pease pudding. 

To Cook a Ham. 

Put into lukewarm water, to which has been added one 
pint of old ale. Simmer it very gently until quite tender. 
For a ham always allow twenty-five minutes to each pound, 
and twenty-five minutes over. Let it get cold in the liquor 
in which it boiled, then remove the rind and carefully cover 
with raspings. 



JOINTS. 31 



Bacon. 



Cook like ham, taking care that it is simmered until 
perfectly tender. Remove the skin and cover with raspings. 

Pickled Pork. 

Put it into lukewarm water and simmer gently until 
tender. 



32 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 
Roast Goose. 

Ingredients — 1 Goose. 

Sage and onion stuffing. 
1J oz. of flour. 
1 onion. 
1 apple. 
3 sage leaves. 
•J lb. of gravy beef. 
1 quart of water. 
Method. — Stuff the goose by placing the sage and onion 
forcemeat inside it. 

Then truss it nicely and roast it from one and a half to 
two hours. 

If it is a large one, two hours ; if a small one, one and 
a half hours. 

To make the gravy, simmer the giblets in water for 
three hours with half a pound of gravy beef cut in pieces, a 
sliced onion, apple, and three sage leaves, pepper and salt. 
Then stir in a thickening made of the flour, and colour 
the gravy with a little burnt sugar. If liked, a glass of 
port wine may be added. 

Pour a little gravy round the goose, and serve the rest 
in a tureen. 

Apple or tomato sauce should be served with roast 
goose. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 33 



Roast Turkey. 

Ingredients — 1 turkey. 

Some veal forcemeat (omitting the suet). 
1 lb. of gravy beef. 
3 pints of water. 

1 onion. 

2 oz. of flour. 

Method. — Place the forcemeat inside the turkey, and 
truss it nicely. 

Roast it from one and a half to two and a half hours. 

Make the gravy by simmering the giblets and beef in 
the water with the onion for three hours. 

Thicken the gravy with the flour, and pour a little 
round the turkey. 

Serve the rest in a tureen. 

Place some fried or baked sausages round the turkey, 
and serve with bread sauce. 

Boiled Turkey. 

A small turkey is sometimes boiled like a fowl, and 
served with oyster, celery, or Bechamel sauce. 

Roast Duck. 

Ingredients — 1 duck. 

Some sage and onion stuffing. 

Rather more than 1 pint water. 

1 oz. of flour. 

1 onion. 

1 apple. 

£ lb. of gravy beef, or 2 or 3 bones. 
Method. — Stuff the duck by placing the forcemeat 
inside it. 

Truss it nicely, and roast it from three-quarters of an 
hour to an hour, according to its size. 

D 



34 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Make the gravy by simmering the giblets in the water 
with the beef or bones, onion, apple, pepper and salt, for 
two hours. 

Thicken it with the flour, and colour carefully with 

burnt sugar. 

Pour a little gravy round the duck, and serve the rest 
in a tureen. 

A glass of port wine may be added to the gravy if 
liked. 

Apple or tomato sauce should be served with roast 
duck. 

Ducklings. 

These are cooked and served like ducks, and take from 
twenty to forty minutes to roast, according to their size. 



Roast Hare. 

Ingredients — 1 hare. 

Some veal forcemeat. 
\ lb. of gravy beef. 
1 pint of water. 
1 onion. 
1 oz. of flour. 
Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Stuff the belly of the hare with the force- 
meat, and sew it in. 

Truss it nicely, and roast it from one and a quarter to 
two hours, according to its size, basting it constantly. 

To make gravy, cut the beef into small pieces, and 
simmer in the water, with the onion sliced, for three hours. 
Thicken it with the flour, and add, if liked, a glass of port 
wine. 

Pour a little gravy round the hare, and serve the 
remainder in a tureen. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 35 



Jugged Hare. 

Ingredients — 1 hare. 

Some veal forcemeat. 
2 oz. of butter. 

1 onion, stuck with 6 cloves. 

2 glasses of port wine. 
1^ pint of gravy or stock. 
1 lemon. 

Method. — Dry the hare well and cut it in pieces. 

Fry them in the butter. 

Then remove them and fry the flour a nice brown. 

Pour in the gravy or stock, and stir until it boils. 

Then put the stock into an earthenware jar with the 
hare, onion, thin rind and juice of the lemon, and pepper 
and salt to taste. 

Cover the jar close, and put it into a moderate oven, 
where it must simmer gently from three to four hours until 
the hare is quite tender. 

Make some balls of veal forcemeat, to which the 
chopped liver of the hare has been added, and either fry 
or bake them. 

Add them to the jugged hare, and, last of all, pour in 
the wine. 

Serve with red-currant jelly. 



Roast Rabbit. 

Ingredients— 1 rabbit. 

Some veal forcemeat. 
Some nice gravy (see Gravy). 
Method.— Fill the belly of the rabbit with the force- 
meat, and sew it in. 

Truss it nicely, and roast it from three-quarters to one 
hour, basting constantly. 



36 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Pour a little gravy round it, and send some to table in 
a tureen. 

Serve with red-currant jelly. 

Boiled Rabbit. 

Ingredients — 1 rabbit. 

Some onion or maitre d'hotel sauce. 
Method. — Boil the rabbit gently from half an hour to 
an hour, according to its size and age. 

Serve it with onion or maitre d'hotel sauce. 

Stewed Rabbits. 

Ingredients — 2 rabbits. 

4 large onions. 
3 pints of water. 
2 \ oz. of flour. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 
Method. — Cut the rabbits into joints, and slice the 
onions. 

Put them with the water into a large stewpan, and 
simmer for one hour or more until the rabbits are tender. 

Then make a thickening of the flour and stir it in, 
letting it boil well. 

Put the rabbit on a hot dish, and pour the gravy over. 

Ragout of Rabbit. 

Ingredients — 1 rabbit. 

1 onion stuck with 6 cloves. 

2 oz. of butter or dripping. 
1 oz. of flour. 

1\ pint of water or stock. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 
Method. — Cut the rabbit into neat joints, and fry them 
in a stewpan in the butter or dripping. 

When brown remove them and fry the flour. 



POULTEY AND GAME. 37 

Then pour in the water or stock, and stir until it boils. 

Put in the pieces of rabbit with the onion, and pepper 
and salt to taste. 

Simmer gently for about one hour or more until quite 
tender. 

Serve the rabbit on a hot dish, and strain the gravy 
over it. 

Roast Pheasant. 

Ingredients — 1 pheasant. 

Half a pint of gravy. 
Butter. 
Method. — Koast the pheasant nicely for three-quarters 
of an hour or an hour, according to its size, basting it 
constantly with butter. 

Make a nice gravy for it {see Gravy), and serve it with 
bread sauce and browned crumbs. 

Wild Duck. 

Ingredients — Wild duck. 

Half a pint of gravy (see Gravy). 
Lemon juice. 
Butter. 
Method. — Eoast the wild duck nicely before a clear fire 
for thirty or forty-five minutes, basting it constantly with 
butter. 

Sprinkle over it a little cayenne and salt, and a few 
drops of lemon juice. 

Serve the gravy in a tureen. 

If liked, a glass of port wine may be poured over the 
duck. 

Partridges. 

Partridges should be nicely roasted before a clear fire 
from twenty-five to thirty minutes. 

Serve with a little gravy and bread sauce. 
Browned crumbs are also handed with them. 



38 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Grouse. 

Eoast these birds before a nice clear fire, basting con- 
stantly with butter. 

Serve with gravy, bread sauce, and browned crumbs. 



Woodcocks and Snipes. 

These birds should be nicely trussed but not drawn. 

Eoast them carefully from twenty to thirty minutes, 
basting constantly. 

Place under them rounds of toasted bread, buttered on 
each side, to catch the trail as it drops, as this is considered 
a delicacy. 

When cooked, lay the toast on a hot dish, place the 
birds on it, and pour a little good gravy over. 

Boiled Fowl. 

Truss nicely and flour the breast slightly. 

Fold it in buttered paper, and tie securely with string. 

Boil in stock or water, according to the directions given 
for boiling meat for three-quarters of an hour to one hour 
and a half, according to its age and size. 

Serve with white, egg, or maitre cV hotel sauce poured 
over it. 

Roast Fowl. 

Truss nicely and roast, according to directions given 
for roasting meat, for three-quarters of an hour to one hour 
and a half according to its age and size. 

Serve with bread sauce and some gravy [see Gravy). 



POULTRY AND GAME. 39 



Braised Partridges. 

Ingredients — A brace' of partridges. 

A small piece of carrot, turnip, and onion. 
2 tomatoes. 

1 pint of good second stock. 
1 wineglass of sherry. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 
Method. — Truss two partridges as for boiling. 
Put at the bottom of a stewpan the vegetables cut in 
small pieces. 

Lay the partridges on the top and pour in the stock 
and sherry ; these should be sufficient to come half way up 
the partridges. 

Cover with buttered paper. 

Put the lid on the stewpan and simmer very gently 
until the partridges are tender. 

Then put them on a baking tin in the oven to brown 
them. 

Strain the stock and boil it rapidly down to a glaze. 
Serve the partridges with the glaze poured over them. 



40 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



SAVOURY MEAT DISHES. 
Stewed Steak. 

Ingredients — 1 J lb. of steak. 

1 piece of carrot, turnip, onion, and celery. 
1 pint of water. 
1 oz. of dripping. 
1 oz. of flour. 
Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Cut all the fat from the steak. 
Make the dripping hot in a stewpan and fry the steak 
in it. 

Then put in the vegetables, and pour in the water, add- 
ing pepper and salt. 

Simmer the steak gently from three to four hours, until 
quite tender. 

When quite cooked, remove it from the gravy. 
Put it on a hot dish. 

Make a thickening of the flour ; stir it into the gravy ; 
boil for two minutes, and strain over the steak. 

A little mushroom catsup, Harvey, or Worcester sauce 
may be added if liked. 

The fat should previously have been cut into dice, 
placed on a baking tin, and cooked in the oven. 

For serving, put them in the middle of the steak. 



SAVOUKY MEAT DISHES. 41 

Stewed Brisket of Beef. 

Ingredients — 5 lb. of beef. 
2 carrots. 
2 onions. 
2 turnips. 
1 head of celery. 

1 sprig of parsley. 
Marjoram and thyme. 

2 bay leaves. 
6 cloves. 

1 dozen peppercorns. 

3 quarts of water. 

Method. — Put the meat into a saucepan with the vege- 
tables and other ingredients, and simmer gently for three 
hours. 

Serve on a hot dish, with some of the liquor for gravy. 

The remainder can be made into soup. 

If to be eaten cold, remove the bones, and press the 
beef. 

Strain the meat liquor, remove the fat, and boil it down 
to a glaze. 

Brush the meat over with it, giving it as many coats of 
glaze as necessary. 

Stewed Ox-cheek. 

Ingredients — 1 ox-cheek. 

1 co wheel. 

3 or 4 carrots. 

2 or 3 turnips. 

3 or 4 onions. 

1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 

2 bay leaves. 

2 quarts of water. 

4 oz. of flour. 

Method. — Wash the ox-cheek and cowheel, and cut 
them into neat pieces. 



42 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Put them into the water with the carrots, turnips, and 
onions, and celery cut in pieces, and the herbs, pepper and 
salt. 

Stew very gently from four to five hours, until the stew 
is quite tender. 

Make a thickening of the flour. 

Stir and cook it well in the gravy. 

Put the cheek and cowheel on a hot dish, and strain the 
gravy over them. 

The bones can be used for soup. 

Mock Hare. 

Ingredients. — 4 lb. shin of beef. 
2 quarts of water. 
2 carrots. 

2 turnips. 
1 onion. 

6 cloves. 

1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 

1 glass of port wine. 

3 oz. of flour. 
Pepper and salt, 

Method. — Put the beef into the water with the vege- 
tables cut in pieces, herbs, cloves, pepper and salt, and 
stew gently from four to five hours, until quite tender. 

Then make a thickening of the flour, stir it in, and boil 
well for two or three minutes. 

For serving, place the beef on a hot dish. 

Add the wine to the gravy, and strain it over the meat. 

Haricot Mutton. 

Ingredients — 7 or 8 mutton cutlets. 
1 pint of second stock. 
1 carrot. 
1 turnip. 



SAVOUEY MEAT DISHES. 43 

1 onion. 

1 stick of celery. 

1 oz. of flour. 
Pepper and salt. 

2 oz. of dripping. 

Method. — Fry the cutlets a nice brown in the dripping. 

Mix the flour smoothly with the stock ; boil it in a 
stewpan for two minutes. 

Then put in the cutlets and the vegetables cut in fancy 
shapes. 

Stew gently for about three-quarters of an hour, until 
the meat and vegetables are tender. 

Dish the cutlets in a circle ; place the vegetables round 
them and pour the gravy over. 

Sheep's Head. 

Ingredients — 1 sheep's head. 

1 oz. of butter or dripping. 

Pepper and salt. 

1\ oz. of flour. 

A few drops of lemon juice. 

Method. — See that the head has been properly prepared 
by the butcher, and the nostrils removed. 

Soak it well in salt and water, and wash it carefully. 

Cut out the tongue, remove the brains, and tie the head 
into shape with a piece of string. 

Put it and the tongue into a saucepan of boiling water, 
and simmer it from three to four hours. 

A quarter of an hour before it is cooked, put in the 
brains tied in muslin. 

To make a sauce for it, melt the butter or dripping in a 
small stewpan. 

Mix in the flour smoothly. 

Pour in one pint of the broth from the sheep's head. 

Stir and cook well, adding pepper and salt to taste a 
few drops of lemon juice, or one teaspoonful of vinegar. 



44 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Lastly, add the brains, chopped small. 
For serving, put the head on a hot dish. 
Eemove the string, and pour the sauce over. 

Sheep's Head au gratin. 

Ingredients — 1 sheep's head. 

2 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs. 

\ oz. of butter. 

1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 

1 teaspoonful of dried and powdered herbs. 

Lemon juice. 

Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Boil the sheep's head according to the direc- 
tions in preceding recipe. 

When cooked, lay it on a greased baking-sheet. 
Sprinkle over it the crumbs, parsley, and herbs, adding 
a few drops of lemon juice ; pepper and salt. 

Put the butter in little pieces about the head, and brown 
it in a quick oven or before the fire. 

Serve with the brain sauce given in the foregoing recipe. 

Liver and Bacon. 

Ingredients — 1 sheep's liver. 

1 lb. of fat bacon. 
1 pint of hot water. 
Some flour. 
Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Cut the bacon into slices, and remove the rind. 
Cut the liver into slices, and dip them in flour. 
Fry the bacon in a frying-pan, then remove it, and fry 
the liver in the bacon fat, adding a little dripping, if neces- 
sary. 

When the liver is cooked, place it on a hot dish ; 
dredge the pan with about half an ounce of flour. 
Fry the flour brown. 



SAVOURY MEAT DISHES. 45 

Then pour in one pint of boiling water, stir and boil for 
one or two minutes ; adding pepper and salt to taste. 

Place the liver in a circle in the middle of a hot 
dish. 

Put the bacon round it, and strain the gravy over it. 



Pigs' Fry, or Mock Goose. 

Ingredients — 1J lb. of pigs' fry. 
3 lb. of potatoes. 
1 onion. 
1 apple. 
A little sage. 
Pepper and salt. 

Method. — Boil the potatoes until half-cooked. 

Then cut them in slices. 

Cut the fry in small pieces. 

Chop the onion and apple small. 

Dry and powder the sage leaves. 

Grease a pie- dish, and put a layer of sliced potatoes at 
the bottom. 

Place on them a layer of pigs' fry. 

Sprinkle it with some of the onion, apple, and powdered 
sage, pepper, and salt. 

Cover with another layer of potatoes ; and put on that 
some more of the fry. 

Sprinkle again with the onion, apple, pepper, and 
salt. 

Proceed in this way until the dish is full, letting the last 
layer be potatoes. 

Pour in half a pint of water ; and cover the dish with a 
piece of pig's caul, or paper spread with dripping. 

Bake in a moderate oven for one hour and a half. 

It may be served in the pie-dish, or on a hot dish. 



46 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Mock Goose another way. 

Ingredients — 1-J lb. of pigs' fry. 

Some dried and powdered sage. 
Chopped apple and onion, 
j pint of cider. 
Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Cut the fry in slices. 
Thread the pieces on a long skewer. 
Lay it on a greased baking-tin, and sprinkle with the 
onion, apple, sage, pepper, and salt, and cover with the 
caul. 

Bake in a moderate oven until tender. 
Then place the fry on a hot dish, and remove the 
skewer. 

Make the cider boiling, and pour over the fry. 

Tripe and Onions. 

Ingredients. — 2 lb. of tripe. 

3 good-sized onions. 
2J pints of milk. 
2 oz. of flour. 
Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Put the tripe into cold water, and bring it to 
the boil ; this is to blanch it. 

Blanch the onions likewise, then throw the water away, 
and cut the tripe into neat pieces. 

Put them in the milk, with the onions cut in halves, 
and pepper and salt. 

Stew gently for an hour. 
Then take out the onions and chop them. 
Bemove the tripe, and put it on a hot dish. 
Make a thickening of flour, and boil it well in the milk, 
and add the chopped onions. 



SAVOURY MEAT DISHES. 47 

Dish the tripe in a circle, and pour the milk and onions 
over. 

Tripe may be cooked more economically by substituting 
water for milk. 

Stewed Tripe. 

Ingredients — 2 lb. of tripe. 

1 quart of brown sauce [see Sauces). 
Method. — Blanch the tripe, as in the preceding recipe. 
Simmer gently in brown sauce for two hours. 
Dish in a circle, with the brown sauce poured over. 

Broiled Steak. 

Make the gridiron hot, and rub it with fat. 

Lay the steak on it. 

Place the gridiron close to a clear fire for about two 
minutes until the heat has sealed up that side of the 
steak. 

Then turn it on to the other side, and let that remain 
close to the fire for the same length of time. 

Then remove it further from the fire and cook more 
gradually, turning occasionally. It takes from ten to 
fifteen minutes to cook, according to the thickness of the 
steak. 

Broiled Chop. 

Cook like a steak. It will take from seven to ten 
minutes to cook. Serve very hot. 

Fried Steak, 

Make the frying-pan quite hot. 

Put a little butter or fat in it, and make that quite hot 
also. 



48 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Put in the steak, and fry it over a quick fire for two 
minutes on one side, then turn it on to the other. 

Moderate the heat applied, and cook gently for about 
twenty minutes, turning occasionally. 



Savoury Roast. 

Ingredients — 1 \ lb. of rump or beefsteak, cut thin. 
Some veal, or sage-and-onion, stuffing. 
| oz. of flour. 
1 cup of boiling water. 

Method. — Lay the stuffing on the steak, roll it round it, 
and tie it with twine. 

Place it in a pie -dish. 

Pour the boiling water over it, and place another pie- 
dish, inverted, at the top of it. 

Put it in a moderate oven for two or three hours, 
until the steak is tender. 

Then put the steak on a hot dish. 

Thicken the gravy with the flour and pour it over. 

Breast of veal may be boned, and stuffed with veal 
stuffing and cooked in the same way. 



Shoulder of Mutton Boned, Stuffed, and 
Rolled. 

Ingredients — 1 shoulder of mutton. 

Some veal stuffing, or sausage meat. 

Method. — Remove the bone carefully, and place some 
stuffing in the place of it. 

Eoll up the mutton, and tie it firmly with twine. 

It may be roasted, baked, or braised. 

If braised, prepare it according to the directions given 
for braised breast of veal, using a large kettle, if a braising 
pan is not obtainable. 



SAVOURY MEAT DISHES. 49 



Braised Breast of Veal. 

Ingredients — 3 or 4 lb. of breast of veal. 
Some veal stuffing. 
Some good second stock. 
Carrot, turnip, onion. 
Sprig of parsley, thyme, marjoram. 
1 bay leaf. 

Method. — Eemove the bones from the veal, and put the 
stuffing in it. 

Eoll the veal round it, and sew it or tie it securely with 
twine. 

Put the vegetables, cut in small pieces, in the bottom 
of a stewpan. 

Place the veal on them, and pour in sufficient stock to 
come half-way up it. 

Put the lid on the stewpan, simmer gently until the 
veal is quite tender, allowing half an hour to each pound 
and half an hour over. 

Then put the veal on a baking- sheet, and put in a 
quick oven to brown. 

Strain the stock into a large stewpan, and boil it rapidly 
down to a glaze. 

Put the veal on a hot dish, remove the string, and pour 
the glaze over it. 

Place round the veal some carrot and turnip, cut in 
fancy shapes and cooked separately. 

Toad-in-the-Hole. 

Ingredients — 8 oz. of flour. 

2 eggs. 

1 pint of milk. 

1J lb. of ox kidney. 

A little salt. 
Method. — Put the flour into a basin. 



50 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Make a well in the middle. 
Put in the eggs ; mix gradually. 
Add the milk by degrees. 
Beat well, and add the salt. 

Cut the kidney in pieces, lay them in a well -greased 
Yorkshire- pudding tin ; and pour the batter over. 

Bake from one and a quarter to one and a half hours. 

Irish Stew. 

Ingredients — 2 lb. of potatoes. 

1 lb. of scrag end of mutton. 
^ lb. of onions. 
Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Peel and slice the potatoes and onions, and 
cut the meat into small pieces. 

Put a layer of meat in the bottom of a saucepan, then a 
layer of potatoes, then one of onions. 

Season with pepper and salt, and continue placing the 
ingredients in the saucepan in alternate layers. 

Pour in half a pint of water and stew gently, stirring 
occasionally, for about one hour and a half. 

Sea Pie. 

Ingredients — 2 lb. of steak. 

2 onions. 

1 carrot. 

1 small turnip. 

| lb. of flour. 

\ lb. of suet. 

1 teaspoonful of baking powder. 

Pepper and salt to taste. 

Cold water. 
Method. — Cut the vegetables and meat small, season 
them with pepper and salt, and put them into a large 
saucepan. 



SAVOUKY MEAT DISHES. 51 

Put it by the side of the fire for the contents to simmer 
gently. 

Chop the suet finely, add it to the flour and baking 
powder, and mix with cold water to a stiff paste. Koll it to 
the size of the saucepan. 

Place it over the meat, and simmer gently for two hours. 

For serving, remove the crust with a fish slice, put the 
meat and vegetables on to a hot dish, and place the crust 
on them. 

Roast Bullock's Heart. 

Ingredients — 1 bullock's heart. 

Some veal stuffing (double the quantity 
given in the recipe). 

Method.— Wash the heart in salt and water, and cleanse 
it thoroughly. 

Wipe it quite dry. 

Cut off the flaps and fill the cavities with the stuffing. 

Grease a piece of paper with dripping, and tie it firmly 
over the top of the heart to keep in the forcemeat. 

Eoast it according to the directions for roasting meat ; 
it will take about two hours. 

Gravy for the Heart. 

Ingredients — 1 pint of stock. 

The trimmings from the heart. 
1 onion. 
1 oz. of butter. 
1 oz. of flour. 

A little Harvey's sauce or catsup. 
A little burnt sugar, if necessary, for 
colouring. 
Method. — Put the trimmings into a saucepan with the 
onion and water, and simmer gently while the heart is 
cooking. 

Then melt the butter in a stewpan. 

E 2 



52 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Mix in the flour smoothly ; add the liquor strained. 

Stir and boil three minutes ; add the sauce, pepper and 
salt, and colouring. 

Put the heart on a hot dish, remove the paper, and pour 
the gravy round it. 

If preferred, the heart may be baked. 



53 



SAUCES. 

Sauces are often failures, chiefly because they are not made 
of a proper consistency ; and because the flour in them is 
not sufficiently cooked. It should be remembered that the 
starch in flour wants to be well boiled, otherwise it will be 
indigestible, and the sauce will have a raw, pasty taste. A 
sauce is not ready when it thickens, but should be boiled 
for quite three minutes. Its consistency should depend on 
what it is to be used for. Ordinary sauces, served in a sauce 
tureen, should be fairly thick ; the proportions taken should 
be 1 oz. of butter ; J oz. of flour ; J pint of milk. If the 
sauce is to be used to coat anything very thinly (new 
potatoes, for example), ^ oz. of flour, instead of f oz., would 
be sufficient. If a sauce is required to entirely mask a small 
piece of fish, or chicken, &c, 1 oz. of flour should be used, 
with the proportions of milk and butter already given. 
Every ingredient should be properly weighed or measured. 
Carelessness in this respect is a mark of ignorance, and 
must occasion failures. 

For making most of the ordinary sauces, the butter is 
melted first in a small stewpan, care being taken that it 
does not discolour ; the flour is then mixed with it. If the 
mixing is not perfect, the sauce will be lumpy. The milk, 
stock, or water, is then poured in, and the sauce is stirred 
one way, until it has boiled three minutes. If cream is 
used, it is then added, and allowed just to boil in the sauce. 

In making economical sauces, when less butter and flour 
are used (see Economical Family Sauce), the method em- 
ployed is different. The flour is then mixed very smoothly 



54 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

with a little of the milk, water, or whatever is used, and 
then added to the remainder, which may be cold or boiling ; 
but greater care is required to keep it smooth when the 
liquid is poured in boiling. 

English Melted Butter. 

Ingredients — 1 oz. of butter. 

| oz. of flour. 

•^ pint of water. 

Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Melt the butter in a small stewpan. 
Mix in the flour smoothly. 
Add the water ; stir and cook well. 
Then add pepper and salt, and it is ready to serve. 

Plain White Sauce. 

Ingredients — 1 oz. of butter. 

J oz. of flour. 

^ pint of milk. 

A few drops of lemon juice. 

Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Melt the butter in a small stewpan. 
Mix in the flour smoothly. 
Add the milk. 
Stir and cook well. 

Then add the lemon juice and seasoning. 
A little cream may also be added if desired. 

Maitre d'Hotel Sauce. 

Ingredients— § oz. of butter. 
\ oz. of flour. 
^ pint of milk. 
A few drops of lemon juice. 
Pepper and salt. 
A teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley. 



SAUCES. 55 

Method. — Melt the butter in a small stewpan. 
Mix in the flour smoothly. 
Add the milk ; stir and cook well. 

Then add the lemon juice, seasoning, and chopped 
parsley. 

Mayonnaise Sauce. 

Ingredients — 2 yolks of eggs. 

1 gill of salad oil. 

2 tablespoonfuls of taragon vinegar. 
Pepper and salt. 

Method. — Put the yolks, which must be perfectly free 
from the whites, into a basin, which in summer time should 
be placed on ice. 

Work them well with a whisk or wooden spoon, adding 
the oil drop by drop. 

When the sauce is so thick that the whisk, or spoon, is 
moved with difficulty, the oil may be added more quickly, 
but still very gradually. 

Lastly, add the taragon vinegar and seasoning. 

Note. — Success in making this sauce depends on first 
dividing the yolks completely from the whites. Secondly, in 
keeping them and the oil quite cold. Thirdly, on adding 
the oil, drop by drop, until the sauce is perfectly thick. If 
the sauce is made in a warm place, or the oil mixed in too 
quickly, it .is apt to curdle. Should this occur, put a yolk 
in another basin and very slowly add the sauce to it, stir- 
ring briskly ; this will generally make it smooth again. 
Two yolks will be sufficient for any quantity of sauce, tara- 
gon vinegar being added in proportion to the oil used. 

Tartare Sauce. 

Ingredients — 2 yolks. 

\ pint of salad oil. 

2 tablespoonfuls of taragon vinegar. 

1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley. 



56 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

A few capers, or a chopped gherkin. 
Pepper and salt. 

If liked, a teaspoonful of ready-made 
mustard. 
Method. — Proceed as in making Mayonnaise Sauce ; 
adding when the sauce is ready the parsley, capers, mus- 
tard, and seasoning. 

Egg Sauce. 

Ingredients — 1 oz. of butter. 

| oz. of flour. 

^ pint of milk. 

Lemon juice. 

Pepper and salt. 

1 or 2 hard-boiled eggs. 
Method. — Melt the butter in a small stewpan. 
Mix in the flour smoothly. 
Add the milk, and stir and cook well. 
Then add the lemon juice, seasoning, and the chopped 
whites of the eggs. 

If a very thick sauce is required, take 1 oz. of flour. 
Cream may be added if desired. 

Brown Sauce. 

Ingredients — 2 oz. of butter. 

H oz. of flour. 

A small piece of carrot, turnip, and onion. 

A few button mushrooms. 

1 pint of good stock. 

A few drops of lemon juice. 

Seasoning to taste. 
Method. — Put the butter into a stewpan and fry the 
vegetables in it. 

Then mix in the flour and fry that. 
Add the stock ; stir and cook well. 



SAUCES. 57 

Squeeze in the lemon juice, and add the seasoning. 
Strain through a tammy-cloth or fine strainer. 



Genoise Sauce. 



Ingredients — 1 oz. of butter. 

J oz. of flour. 

1 J gills of stock. 

■J wineglass of port. 

A tiny piece of carrot, turnip, and onion. 

J teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. 

^ teaspoonful of Harvey's sauce. 

Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Melt the butter in a small stewpan, and fry 
the vegetables in it. 

Then add the flour, and fry that. 
Pour in the stock ; stir and cook well. 
Then add the wine and other ingredients. 
Stir until it boils again, and then strain it. 



Bechamel Sauce. 

Ingredients — 2 oz. of butter. 

1^ oz. of flour. 

1 pint of good white stock. 

\ pint of cream. 

A few drops of lemon juice. 

Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Melt the butter in a stewpan. 
Mix in the flour smoothly. 
Add the stock. 
Stir and cook well. 

Then stir in the cream ; let it boil in the sauce ; and 
add lemon juice, pepper, and salt. 
Strain through a tammy-cloth. 



58 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Milk may be substituted for the white stock, if more 
convenient. To flavour it, a small piece of carrot, turnip, 
and onion, and 6 button mushrooms should be boiled in it. 



Sauce Hollandaise. 

Ingredients — \ pint of plain white sauce. 
The yolks of 4 eggs. 
A little cayenne pepper and salt. 
A few drops of lemon juice, or taragon 
vinegar. 
Method. — Put the white sauce and eggs into a jug, 
which must be placed in a saucepan of boiling water. 

Stir until the mixture thickens, being careful it does 
not curdle. 

When quite ready, add the lemon juice or vinegar. 



Lobster Sauce. 

Ingredients — 1 small lobster. 

Some spawn. 

1^ oz. of butter. 

1 oz. of flour. 

J pint of milk. 

■| gill of cream. 

A few drops of lemon juice. 

Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Eemove the flesh from the body and claws of 
the lobster, and cut it in small pieces. 

Then boil the shell, broken small, in the milk. 
Rub the spawn with \ oz. butter through a hair sieve. 
Melt the remaining butter in a small stewpan. 
Mix in the flour smoothly, and then add the milk, strained. 
Stir until it thickens. 

Put in the spawn and butter, and continue stirring until 
the flour is well cooked. 



SAUCES. 59 

Then add the cream — let it hoil in the sauce — and 
lastly, the lemon juice, pepper and salt, and lobster. 

Lobster Sauce (a plainer Receipt). 

Ingredients — Part of a tin of lobster. 

1 oz. of butter. 

1 oz. of flour. 

£ pint of milk. 

A few drops of lemon juice, or ^ a tea- 
spoonful of vinegar. 

Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Cut up the lobster. 
Melt the butter in a small stewpan. 
Mix in the flour smoothly. 
Add the milk ; stir and cook well. 
Then add the lemon juice, seasoning, and pieces of 
lobster. 

Shrimp Sauce. 

Remove the heads, tails, and skin from half a pint of 
shrimps ; prepare some sauce as directed in the first or 
second recipe for lobster sauce, substituting the shrimps 
for the lobster. 

Oyster Sauce. 

Ingredients — 1 oz. of butter. 
1 oz. of flour. 
^ pint of milk. 
1 dozen of oysters. 
77 gill of cream. 
A few drops of lemon juice. 
Salt, pepper, and a little cayenne. 
Method. — Remove the beard and white part of the 
oysters, and cut each one in two. 

Strain the liquor through muslin, and scald the oysters 
in it {i.e. put the liquor, with the oysters in it, in a sauce- 
pan, and just bring it to the boil). 



60 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Put the beards and hard white parts in the milk and 
simmer them to extract the flavour. 

Then melt the butter in a small stewpan. 

Mix in the flour smoothly. 

Strain in the milk and oyster liquor, and stir and cook 
well. 

Then add cream, and stir until the sauce again boils. 

Lastly, add the oysters, pepper, salt, and lemon juice. 

French Sauce. 

Ingredients — 1 oz. of butter. 

\ oz. of flour. 

1 gill of milk. 

1 gill of cream. 

The yolk of one egg. 

Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Melt the butter in a small stewpan. 
Mix the flour smoothly. 
Add the milk, stir and cook well. 

Pour in the cream and let it boil in the sauce. Then 
take it off the fire, and mix in the yolk of the egg. 
Add pepper and salt to taste. 

Celery Sauce. 

Ingredients — 1 oz. of butter. 

1 oz. of flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream. 

J pint of white stock or milk. 
1 head of celery. 
Method. — Boil one head of celery in f of a pint of white 
stock or milk. 

When tender, strain it from the liquor and rub it through 
a hair sieve. 

Melt the butter in a small stewpan. 
Mix in the flour smoothly. 



SAUCES. 61 

Add the stock or milk ; stir and cook well. 

Pour in the cream, and stir until the sauce boils again. 

Add pepper and salt to taste. 



Tomato Sauce. 

Ingredients — 6 ripe tomatoes. 

} lb. of bacon. 

1 oz. of flour. 

A piece of carrot, turnip, and onion. 

A sprig of parsley. 

Thyme, marjoram, and a bay leaf. 

A teaspoonful of vinegar. 

Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Cut the bacon in slices and fry it. 
Then put in the vegetables and fry them, dredge in the 
flour, and then add the tomatoes and fry them lightly. 

Empty the contents of the frying-pan on a hair sieve, 

and rub the tomatoes through. The hair sieve will keep 

back the other vegetable, the flavour of which only is wanted. 

Add the vinegar and seasoning, and make the sauce hot. 



Onion Sauce. 

Ingredients — 4 or 5 fair- sized onions. 

\ pint of plain white sauce or melted 
butter (1st recipe). 

Method. — First, blanch the onions by putting them in 
cold water and bringing it to the boil. 

Throw the water away. 

Put the onions in fresh water and boil for an hour, or 
an hour and a half, until tender. 

Chop them finely and add them to the sauce or melted 
butter. 



62 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Soubise Sauce. 

Ingredients — § pint of plain white sauce. 
2 tablespoonfuls of cream. 
4 or 5 onions. 
Method. — Blanch the onions (as in preceding recipe) 
and boil until tender. 

Then rub through a hair sieve. 

Make some plain white sauce (see recipe), and add to it 
the cream and pulped onion. 

Bread Sauce. 

Ingredients — 2 oz. of bread crumbs. 
\ pint of milk. 
peppercorns. 
2 tablespoonfuls of cream, or \ oz. of 

butter. 
A small piece of onion. 
Method. — Steep the onion and peppercorns in the milk, 
and put the milk on to boil. 

Then remove the onions and peppercorns, and sprinkle 
in the crumbs. 

Set the sauce by the side of the fire for six minutes, and 
then heat to boiling point, adding either the cream or butter. 
Salt must be added to taste ; also a little cayenne. 

Economical Family Sauce. 

Ingredients — J lb. of flour. 
1 pint of milk. 
1 pint of water. 
1^ oz. butter. 
Method. — Mix the flour very smoothly with a little 
water. 

Put the rest of the water, with the milk and butter, in 
a saucepan on the fire to boil. 



SAUCES. 63 

When it boils, put in the flour, stirring until the sauce 
is cooked. 

Add pepper and salt to taste. If liked, a few drops of 
lemon juice or vinegar may be added. 

This sauce will form the basis of many other plain sauces : 
To use with fish, put in a tablespoonful of anchovy. Onion 
sauce is made by adding cooked and chopped onions when 
the sauce is ready. Caper sauce, by adding capers ; or, as 
a substitute, chopped gherkin. 

This sauce may be made still more economically by 
using water only instead of milk. 

Wine Sauce. 

Ingredients — 1 oz. of lump sugar. 

J pint of water. 

A wineglass of sherry. 

A few drops of cochineal. 

A dessertspoonful of jam. 
Method. — Boil the sugar and water together until reduced 
to one half. 

Add the jam ; let it melt. 

Then add the sherry and cochineal, and strain. 

Piquant Sauce. 

Ingredients — ^ pint of brown sauce. 

1 tablespoonful of capers. 

1 tablespoonful of chopped gherkin. 

1 tablespoonful of very finely chopped 
shalot. 

\ pint of vinegar. 

Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Simmer the shalot, capers, and gherkin, in 
the vinegar until the shalot is quite soft. 
Pour in the sauce, and let it boil up. 
Season to taste. 



64 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Sauce Reforme. 

Ingredients — 1 pint of brown sauce. 

1 wineglass of port wine. 

1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. 

1 teaspoonful of Harvey's sauce. 

2 tablespoonfuls of red-currant jelly. 
Method. — Boil all the ingredients together, and the 

sauce is ready. 

Port-wine Sauce for Wild Duck. 

Ingredients — 2 wineglasses of port. 
Juice of half a lemon. 

1 finely chopped shalot. 
Method. — Boil altogether and strain. 

Sweet Sauce. 

Ingredients — 1 teaspoonful of arrowroot. 

Juice of half a lemon and a little rind. 

2 tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. 
■J pint of water. 

Method. — Put the water with the lemon-rind and sugar 
into a saucepan to boil. 

Mix the arrowroot smoothly with a little cold water. 

When the water in the saucepan boils, pour it in and 
stir it until it thickens ; then strain it and add the lemon 
juice. 

A glass of sherry may be added to this sauce if desired. 

German Sauce. 

Ingredients — The yolks of 2 eggs. 
1 wineglass of sherry. 
1 dessertspoonful of castor sugar. 



SAUCES. 65 

Method. — Put all the ingredients into a saucepan, and 
mill over the fire with a whisk until the sauce froths. 

For a Christmas Pudding make the sauce with three 
yolks, and a wineglass of brandy. 

A Nice Sweet Sauce. 

Ingredients — \ pint of plain white sauce or melted 
butter (omitting the seasoning). 

1 wineglass of sherry or brandy. 

2 dessertspoonfuls of castor sugar. 
Method. — Add the wine and sugar to the sauce, and it 

is ready for use. 

Jam Sauce. 

Ingredients — 3 tablespoonfuls of red jam. 

\ pint of water. 

1 oz. of lump sugar. 

Juice of half a lemon. 
Method. — Boil the jam, sugar, and water together for 
three minutes. 

Add the lemon juice, and strain. 

The lemon may be omitted if the flavour is not liked. 

Apple Sauce, No. 1. 

Ingredients — 6 good-sized apples. 
1 oz. of butter. 
1 tablespoonful of moist sugar, or more, 

according to taste, 
i gill of water. 
Method. — Wash the apples and slice them, but do not 
peel or core them. 

Put them in a stewpan with the water, butter, and 
sugar. 

Stew gently for about thirty minutes, stirring occa- 
sionally. 



66 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Bub them quickly through a hair sieve, and put the 
sauce in a hot tureen. 

The hair sieve keeps back the rind and pips. 

Apple Sauce, No. 2. 

Ingredients — 6 large apples. 

1 oz. of butter. 

1 tablespoonral or more of moist sugar. 

\ gill of water. 
Method. — Peel, core, and slice the apples. 
Stew them with the water, sugar, and butter until 
tender. 

Then beat to a pulp with a fork. 

Mint Sauce. 

Ingredients — 3 tablespoonfuls of finely-chopped fresh 
mint. 
1 tablespoonral of sugar. 
\ pint of vinegar. 
Method. — Mix all together, and let the sauce stand for 
an hour before serving. 

Horse-radish Sauce. 

Ingredients — 1 stick of horse-radish. 
^ gill of cream. 
1 tablespoonral of vinegar. 
v gill of milk. 

1 teaspoonful of ready-made mustard. 
1 teaspoonful of castor sugar. 
Pepper and salt. 
Method.— Scrape the horse-radish finely, and mix with 
all the other ingredients. 

If cream is not to be had, use milk thickened with a 
liUle^eornflour. But it is not so good. 



SAUCES. 67 

Gravy for Made Dishes. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of gravy beef. 
1 quart of water. 

A piece of onion, carrot, and turnip. 
1 sprig of parsley. 
Thyme and marjoram. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 
Method. — Cut the beef into small pieces. 
Put it with the vegetables into a stewpan with the 
water, and simmer very gently for four hours; then strain. 
If a thick gravy is required, thicken with one and a 
half ounces of flour ; add pepper and salt to taste. 

To this gravy may be added a little sauce, catsup, port 
or sherry wine, &c, according to the purpose for which it 
is required. 

Scraps of cooked meat and bones may be substituted 
for the fresh meat where economy must be studied. 

Glaze. 

Boil down one or two quarts of second stock (which 
will jelly when cold) until it is quite thick, and coats a 
spoon. One quart may be boiled down to a quarter of a 
pint. 

Pour it into a jar. 

When wanted for use, put the jar to stand in a sauce- 
pan of boiling water until it is dissolved. 

Glaze is used for enriching gravies and soups, and for 
glazing meat. 

Cheap Glaze for Meat. 

Ingredients — 3 teaspoonfuls of Liebig's Extract of 
Meat. 
\ oz. of Nelson's or Swinborne's Gelatine, 

or isinglass. 
Pepper and salt. 
I pint of cold water. # 

F 2 



68 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Method. — Soak the gelatine in the water for three- 
quarters of an hour. 

Add the meat extract, and pepper and salt. 

Stir and boil until reduced to about a quarter of a pint. 

This glaze can only be used for glazing meat. 

B^arnaise Sauce. 

Ingredients — 1 finely-chopped shalot. 
^ gill of white sauce. 
1 tablespoonful of taragon vinegar. 
The yolks of 4 eggs. 
1 dessertspoonful of finely-chopped 

parsley. 
Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Put the shalot and vinegar into a saucepan ; 
boil until the vinegar has evaporated, but do not let the 
shalot burn. 

Add the eggs and sauce, and mill with a whisk until the 
eggs are thick. 

Add the parsley and pepper and salt. 






69 



BREAKFAST DISHES AND BEVERAGES. 
Oatmeal Porridge. 

Ingredients — \ lb. of coarse oatmeal. 
1 quart of water. 

Method. — Put the water on to boil. 

When boiling, sprinkle in the oatmeal, stirring all the 
time. 

When it thickens, put it by the side of the fire, and stir 
occasionally. 

Cook it for quite three-quarters of an hour, longer if 
possible. 

When the time can be allowed, three hours will not be 
too long a time, especially if the porridge is for anyone 
with a weak digestion. 

A better plan is to put the saucepan containing it, after 
the contents have boiled for ten minutes, to stand in a 
saucepan of briskly boiling water ; it will then cook with- 
out danger of burning, and may be left for any length of 
time ; care only being taken that the water in the under 
saucepan does not boil away. 

Whole-meal Porridge. 

This may be made in the same way as oatmeal, but it 
requires even longer cooking. 

Dry Toast. 

Cut the bread into rather thin slices, and remove the 
crust. 



70 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Toast it slowly, holding it at a little distance from a 
bright clear fire. 

When ready, put it at once into the rack ; because, if 
the toast is placed flat on a table, it loses its crispness. 

The crusts may be soaked for plain puddings, or dried 
and powdered for bread crumbs. 

Buttered Toast. 

Cut the bread about half an inch in thickness. 

Toast quickly in front of a clear fire. 

Put the butter on directly the toast is taken off the 
fork, and spread it quickly. 

Put the toast on a hot plate, and take care that it is 
served hot. 

Toasted Bacon. 

Cut the bacon in thin slices, and toast it in a small 
Dutch oven or on a toasting fork until the fat is trans- 
parent. 

Fried Bacon. 

Cut the bacon in thin slices, and fry it in its own fat. 
It will be cooked when the fat is transparent. It must not 
be cooked too quickly, or the fat will burn up and be 
wasted. 

Eggs and Bacon. 

Toast or fry the bacon, and lay a nicely poached egg 
on each slice. 

Boiled Eggs. 

Put the eggs into boiling water, and boil an ordinary 
sized egg for three minutes ; new-laid eggs will take one 
minute longer. Eggs boiled five minutes will be nearly 
hard. To make them quite firm, boil them steadily for 
ten minutes. To make them mealy, boil them for an 
hour. 



BREAKFAST DISHES AND BEVERAGES. 7L 



Poached Eggs. 

Eggs for poaching should be perfectly fresh, or they 
will not keep a nice shape. 

Let the water be quite boiling ; add to it a little salt. 

Break the eggs into cups, and slip them gently into the 
boiling water. 

As soon as the white is nicely set, remove them with a 
fish slice. 

Trim the eggs neatly, and serve them on hot buttered 
toast. 

An egg-poacher will be found very convenient for 
cooking eggs this way. 

Fried Kidneys. 

Ingredients — A few kidneys. 

A little butter or dripping. 

A little flour. 

Some gravy. 

Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Split open the kidneys lengthwise. 
Flour them and fry them slowly in the butter or drip- 
ping for about four minutes. 
Dish them on pieces of toast. 

Pour the gravy into the pan ; stir and boil for a minute, 
and then strain round the kidneys. 

Kidneys Toasted. 

Ingredients — Some kidneys. 
Toasted bread. 

Method. — Split open the kidneys lengthwise. 

Toast them before a clear fire ; when the gravy ceases 
to drop red they will be sufficiently cooked. 

A hot dish should be placed under them to catch the 
gravy. 



72 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Place the toast on the dish and put the kidneys on it, 
and sprinkle over them a little pepper and salt. 



Stewed Kidneys. 

Ingredients — 2 or 3 kidneys. 

\ pint of nice gravy. 

1 dessertspoonful of flour. 

Pepper and salt to taste. 

Lemon juice. 
Method. — Mix the flour smoothly with the gravy. 
Put it into a stewpan, and boil well for three minutes. 
Put in the kidneys cut in slices, and simmer gently for 
about fifteen minutes. 

Add a squeeze of lemon juice ; pepper and salt to 
taste. 

Serve on a piece of toast, and pour the gravy over. 



Stuffed Kidneys. 

Ingredients — 8 or 4 kidneys. 

1 oz. of butter. 

Half a shalot, chopped finely. 

1 dessertspoonful of parsley. 

1 tablespoon ful of bread crumbs. 

A few drops of lemon juice. 

A little cayenne. 

Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Toast or broil the kidneys and split them 
open. 

Fry the shalot in the butter. 

Mix in the bread crumbs and parsley ; add lemon juice, 
cayenne pepper, and salt. 

Lay a little of the stuffing in each kidney and fold it 
over. 

Serve very hot. 



BREAKFAST DISHES AND BEVERAGES, 73 



Kidneys a la Tartare. 

Ingredients — A few kidneys. 

\ pint of Tartare sauce. 
Method. — Split the kidneys open, and toast or broil 
tliem nicely. 

Serve on toasted bread with Tartare sauee in a tureen. 



Fried Sausages. 

Ingredients — Sausages, 

A little butter or dripping. 
Some toasted bread. 

Method. — Prick the sausages with a fork, and fry them 
with butter or dripping, turning them that they get 
browned equally. 

Serve them on toasted bread, witli some nice gravy in a 
sauceboat. 

Some people like the toast soaked in the fat in the pan, 
but this is a matter of taste. 



Baked Sausages. 

Prick the sausages, and place them on a greased baking- 
sheet. 

Bake until they are nicely browned. 

Serve on toast, with gravy in a sauceboat. 

If liked, the toast can be soaked in the fat that runs 
from the sausages. 

Oxford Sausages. 

Remove the sausage-meat from the skins, and place it 
in little rough heaps on a greased baking-sheet. 
Bake in a quick oven until browned. 
Serve on toast. 



74 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Tomatoes stuffed with Sausage Meat. 

Ingredients — Some nice ripe tomatoes. 
Some sausage meat. 

Method. — Cut the stalks from the tomatoes, but do not 
take out any of the inside. 

Heap a little sausage meat on the top of each tomato. 

Put them on a greased baking- sheet, and bake in a 
moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. 



Croustards with Minced Meat. 

Ingredients — Some stale bread. 

Scraps of cold meat. 
A little nice gravy. 
A little mushroom catsup. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 

Method. — Cut the bread into slices three-quarters of an 
inch in thickness. 

Stamp it into rounds with a circular cutter. 

Mark the middle with a cutter two sizes smaller, and 
scoop out the inside, making little nests of them, and 
taking care not to break the bottom or sides. 

Fry the cases in hot fat (see French Frying) ; drain 
them and put them inside the oven to keep hot. 

Mince the meat nicely, removing skin and gristle. 

Make a little gravy hot in a stewpan. 

Put in the mince, and make it hot without letting it boil. 

Flavour to taste with catsup, pepper and salt. 

Fill the croustard cases and serve immediately : they 
should be placed on a folded napkin, and garnished with 
parsley. 

Mince a la Reine. 

Ingredients — 1 dozen mushrooms. 

Some slices of cold meat. 



BREAKFAST DISHES AND BEVERAGES. 75 

(Cold game or chicken are excellent for 

this purpose). 
6 eggs. 

Some rounds of bread, toasted or fried. 
1 pint of good gravy. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 
Method. — Peel the mushrooms. 
Wash and dry them well, and cut them in slices. 
Put them in a stewpan with part of the gravy, to stew 
for about thirty minutes, until they are tender. 

Mince the meat and make it hot in a saucepan, with 
enough gravy to moisten it, adding pepper and salt to taste. 
Poach the eggs nicely, and fry or toast the bread (fried 
bread is best). 

Put the slices of fried bread on a hot dish ; cover each 
piece with the minced meat, and lay an egg on each. 

Pour the gravy and mushrooms round, and serve very 
hot. 

As a decoration, a tiny pinch of finely-chopped parsley 
might be put on the top of each egg. 



Sheep's Head Moulded. 

Ingredients — 1 sheep's head. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 
Pepper and salt. 

Method. — Clean, and then boil the head until the flesh 
will leave the bones easily. 

Take out all the bones ; cut the meat into pieces an 
inch in size, and season them well with pepper and 
salt. 

Cut the eggs into slices, and place them round the top 
of a cake-tin or basin. 

Put in the head, and put a weight on it to press it 
down. 

When cold turn it out ; serve garnished with parsley. 



76 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Veal Cake. 

Ingredients — Eemains of cooked veal. 
Slices of ham. 
2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs. 
Some nice second stock. 
A little gelatine. 
Some forcemeat balls. 
Method. — Butter well a plain mould or basin. 
Decorate it with slices of egg, and balls made of veal 
forcemeat. 

Cut the ham and the veal into neat pieces. 
Season them well with pepper and salt, and, if liked, a 
little chopped parsley. 

Place them in the mould, and fill it up with stiff second 
stock. 

If the stock is not stiff enough, mix with it a little 
melted gelatine. 

Cover the mould, and bake for one hour in a moderate 
oven. 

Let it get cold, and then turn it on to a dish. 

Brawn. 

Ingredients — 1 pig's head. 

2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs. 
2 onions. 
6 cloves. 

1 blade of mace. 

2 dozen peppercorns. 

1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 

Method. — Clean the head well, and pickle it for three 
days (see Pickle for Meat). 

Then put it in enough cold water to cover it, and boil 
it gently for three hours or more, until the flesh will leave 
the bones easily. 

Take out the tongue, skin it, and cut it in slices. 

Stamp them into fancy shapes with a paste cutter ; wet 



BKEAKFAST DISHES AND BEVERAGES. 77 

a plain round mould and decorate it with them and the 
eggs cut in slices. 

Remove the meat from the bone, and cut it into large 
dice. 

Take one quart of the liquor in which the head was 
boiled ; put the bones into it, with the peppercorns, cloves, 
onions, and herbs ; boil down for half an hour with the lid 
off the saucepan. 

Then strain one pint of the broth into another saucepan. 

Season the pieces of meat with pepper, and a little salt 
if necessary ; put them into the broth. 

Let it come to the boil, and then pour it into the 
decorated mould. 

When set, turn it on to a dish. 

Scalloped Eggs. 

Ingredients — Some eggs. 

Bread-crumbs. 

A little onion, chopped as finely as pos- 
sible (this may be omitted, if liked). 
A little finely-chopped parsley. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 
Method. — Grease some deep scallop shells. 
Dust them over with bread crumbs, mixed with the 
parsley and onion. 

Put an egg into each shell, and sprinkle with more 
crumbs, parsley, onion, pepper and salt. 
Put them into a brisk oven until set. 

Eggs sur le Plat, 

Ingredients — 4 eggs. 

\ oz. of butter. 

Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Take a dish that will stand the heat of the 
oven ; melt the butter in it. 

Break the eggs on to it very carefully. 



7 8 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Pepper and salt them, and put them into the oven 
until they are set. 

They must be served on the same dish. 

Buttered Eggs. 

Ingredients — 1 piece of fried or toasted bread. 
1 tablespoonful of gravy. 
1 oz. of butter. 
Pepper and salt. 
4 eggs. 
Method. — Break the eggs into a basin, and add to them 
the gravy, pepper, and salt. 

Melt the butter in a small frying or omelet pan ; pour 
in the eggs, and stir quickly up from the bottom of the 
pan, until the whole is a soft yellow mass. 

Spread on the toast, and serve very quickly. 

Egg Croustards. 

Ingredients — Some slices of stale bread, about f inch in 
thickness. 
Some eggs. 
Some nicely-flavoured gravy. 

Method. — Stamp out some rounds of bread with a cir- 
cular paste-cutter. 

Mark the middle with one a size smaller. 

Then with a knife scoop out the inside, making little 
nests of bread, taking care not to break the bottom or sides. 

Fry these cases in hot fat (see French Frying). 

When fried, drain them on kitchen paper, and keep 
them hot. 

Make some water boiling hot in a stewpan ; add to it a 
little lemon juice. 

Put into it the eggs broken gently into cups. 

Poach until the whites are set, then remove them care- 
fully with a fish slice, and put an egg into each croustard. 

Place them on a hot dish, and pour gravy boiling hot 
over them. 



BREAKFAST DISHES AND BEVERAGES. 79 



Eggs and Anchovy. 

Ingredients — 2 eggs. 

1 slice of fried or toasted bread. 
A little anchovy paste. 
1 oz. of butter. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 
Method. — Let the fried or toasted bread be quite hot 
(fried bread is the best), and spread it thinly with anchovy 
paste. 

Make the butter quite hot in a frying or omelet pan. 
Break the eggs into it, add pepper and salt, and stir 
very quickly, until they are a soft, yellow mass. 

Spread it quickly over the toast, and serve immediately. 

Eggs in Cases. 

Ingredients — 4 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs. 

1 dessertspoonful of finely-chopped par- 
sley. 
Pepper and salt. 

If liked, a boiled onion very finely chopped. 
6 eggs. 
6 paper cases. 
Method. — Butter well some paper cases ; mix the 
crumbs, parsley, onion, pepper, and salt together ; put a 
little at the bottom of each case. 

Break the eggs gently, and put one egg into each case. 
Cover each with some of the crumbs and seasoning, 
and put the cases in a quick oven to bake until the eggs 
are set. 

Broiled Mushrooms. 

Choose nice large mushrooms ; peel and wash them, 
and wipe them dry. 

Cut out the steins, and put them, with the top of the 
mushrooms downwards, on a gridiron. 



80 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Put a small piece of butter on each, and broil for ten 
minutes slowly. 

Remove them carefully, as the mushrooms will be by 
that time full of delicious gravy. 

Broiled Dried Haddock. 

Soak it in cold water for an hour before using. 
Broil it slowly over a clear fire until it is quite hot, 
turning occasionally. 

Rub some butter over it, and serve it at once. 

Bloaters. 

Cut the bloaters open down the back, and bone them. 
Lay them one on the other with the insides together. 
Broil them slowly over a clear fire, turning occasionally. 
Serve very hot, with a little butter rubbed over them. 
If preferred, they may be broiled unboned. 

Red Herrings. 

Remove their heads and tails. 
Slit them open down the back and remove the bone. 
Egg and bread-crumb them, and broil them over a 
clear fire. 

If preferred, they may be broiled unboned. 

Tea. 

Measure a teaspoonful of tea for each person, and one 
teaspoonful over. 

Make the teapot quite hot by filling it with boiling 
water ; let it stand in it for three minutes ; then empty the 
teapot. 

Put in the tea, and pour boiling water over it. 

Cover it with a tea-cosy, and let it infuse for five 
minutes before using. The longer it stands, the darker it 



BREAKFAST DISHES AND BEVERAGES. 81 

will get ; but for people of weak digestions, it should be 
used after five minutes' infusion only. 

The water should be fresh spring water, and should be 
used as soon as it boils. Water that has been boiled for 
any length of time is flat from the loss of its gases. 

Coffee. 

To have coffee to perfection it should be freshly roasted 
and ground, as coffee quickly loses its flavour. If this is 
not possible, use the best French coffee sold in tins. The 
water should be freshly boiled ; the coffee itself should not 
be boiled, but only infused in the boiling water. Boiling 
disperses the aroma. It can, however, be made more 
economically if boiled, and therefore recipes are given for 
its preparation in this manner. Chicory is generally used 
with coffee in the proportion of two ounces of chicory tc 
one pound of coffee. 

Coffee (Soyer's method.) 

Ingredients — 3 oz. of coffee. 

1 pint of boiling water. 
Method. — Put the coffee into a clean stewpan. 
Stir over the fire until it smokes, but do not let it burn 
Then pour in the boiling water. 

Cover close, and set by the side of the fire for te : 
minutes. 

Strain through thick muslin. 

Coffee (another method). 

Ingredients — 3 oz. of coffee. 

1^ pint of boiling water. 
Method. — Make a jug hot. 

Put the cofiee in it, and pour over the boiling wate ! 
Let it stand in a hot place for half an hour. 
Then strain through thick muslin. 

G 



82 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Cafe au Lait. 

Half fill a cup with nicely-made coffee, and pour in the 
same quantity of boiled milk. 

Coffee (economical method). 

Ingredients — f lb. of coffee. 

2 quarts of cold water. 

Method.— Make a bag of rather thick muslin, and put 
the coffee into it. The bag should be rather large, so that 
the coffee will have plenty of room. 

Tie the ends of the bag securely. 

Put it into a saucepan with the water ; bring to the 
boil, and boil steadily for one hour. 

Strain through thick muslin. 

This will make strong coffee, which can be diluted with 
boiling water as required. 

Coffee made in a Percolator. 

Ingredients — 3 oz. of coffee. 

1 \ pint of boiling water. 
Method. — Make the percolator hot. 
Put the coffee in it, and pour on the boiling water. 
Let it stand in a hot place for about ten minutes. 

Cocoa. 

This is best, especially for invalids, if prepared from 
the nibs ; these should be perfectly fresh. 

Put a quarter of a pound of nibs into two quarts of cold 
water ; simmer for five hours and then strain. 

When cold remove the fat ; heat it as required. 

Cocoa may also be made from any of the different pre- 
parations. 

Make it according to directions given on the canisters, 



BREAKFAST DISHES AND BEVERAGES. 83 

and be very careful to mix it thoroughly. Nothing is so 
unpleasant as to have the sides and bottom of the cup 
coated with cocoa. 

It is better to prepare it in a small saucepan ; it should 
be boiled for two or three minutes. 

It is more nourishing if mixed with milk instead of 
water. 

Chocolate. 

This is only a thicker preparation of cocoa, and may be 
made in the same way. 



g 2 



84 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



COLD MEAT COOKERY. 
Hash. 

Ingredients — The remains of cold meat. 
Some nice stock or gravy. 
Flour, in the proportion of ^ oz. to every 

J pint of gravy. 
Pepper and salt, and, if liked, a little 

catsup, or Harvey's sauce. 
Toasted or fried bread. 
Method. — Cut the meat into neat pieces. 
Mix the flour smoothly with the gravy, and boil for 
three minutes, stirring all the time. 

Add seasoning and catsup or a little sauce. 
Then put the pieces of meat into the gravy and let 
them warm through ; but do not let the gravy boil when 
the meat is in it, as that would toughen it. 

Tinned oysters make a nice addition to a hash. 
For serving, put the hash on a hot dish and garnish 
with sippets of fried or toasted bread. 

If no gravy or stock is available, make some by break- 
ing up any bones from the meat ; boil them in a suffi- 
cient quantity of water, with a piece of carrot, turnip, 
onion, celery, and a small bunch of herbs. 

Boil for quite an hour, and then strain the liquor. 

Minced Meat. 

Ingredients — Some scraps of cold meat. 
A little gravy. 

Some boiled rice or potatoes. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 



COLD MEAT COOKERY. 85 

Method. — Mince the meat finely with a knife, or minc- 
ing machine (the flavour is nicer if a knife is used). 

Mix with sufficient gravy to moisten the meat, and stir 
over the fire until hot ; but do not let the gravy boil. 

Serve with a border of boiled rice, or mashed potatoes 
round it. 

If veal or chicken is minced, squeeze in a few drops of 
lemon juice, and serve with sliced lemon. 

A little cooked ham should be added to these minces, 
to give them flavour ; minced beef is improved by the addi- 
tion of a few oysters. 

Mince (with Eggs). 

Prepare some mince, as in preceding recipe, and serve 
with very nicely poached eggs on the top of it ; garnish 
with sippets of fried or toasted bread. 

Curry of Cold Meat. 

Ingredients — Some scraps of cold meat. 
Some stock or gravy. 
Curry powder and flour in the proportion 
of a dessertspoonful of each to every half 
pint of gravy. 
1 small onion. 
1 small apple. 
^ oz. of dripping. 
A few drops of lemon juice. 
Salt. 

Some boiled rice. 
Method. — Slice the onion and apple, and fry them in 
the dripping. 

When fried, rub them lightly through a hair sieve. 
Mix the curry powder and flour smoothly with the 
stock. 

Stir and cook well over the fire. 

Add the onion, apple, lemon juice, and salt. 



86 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Then lay in the meat, and let it warm through, being 
careful that the sauce does not boil. 
Serve with nicely boiled rice. 

Shepherd's Pie. 

Ingredients — Slices of cold meat. 
Boiled potatoes. 
Butter or dripping. 
A little gravy. 
Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Season the pieces of meat with pepper and 
salt, and lay them in a pie -dish with a little gravy. 

Mash the potatoes smoothly with butter or dripping ; 
and pepper and salt to taste. 

Spread the potatoes over the meat in the form of a pie- 
crust, and smooth them with a knife dipped in hot water. 
Bake for half an hour. 

Patties. 

Ingredients — Some scraps of cold meat. 
A little gravy. 
Pepper and salt. 
Pastry. 
1 egg. 
Method. — Mince the meat and moisten with the gravy, 
adding pepper and salt to taste. 

If veal or chicken are used, mince a little ham with 
them, and add a few drops of lemon juice. 

Ptoll out the pastry, and stamp it into rounds with a 
fluted cutter. 

Lay half the rounds on greased pattypans. 
Brush round the edges of the paste with a little beaten 
egg, and put a little mince on each round. 

Cover them with the remaining rounds of paste, pressing 
the edges lightly together. 

Glaze with the beaten egg, and bake in a quick oven 
for about 15 minutes. 



COLD MEAT COOKEKY. 87 



Fritters. 

Ingredients — Some cold meat. 
Some nice gravy. 
Some Kromesky batter. 
Method. — Cut the meat into neat pieces ; dip them in 
the batter and fry in hot fat until lightly browned (see 
French Frying). 

Pile on a hot dish, and serve, if possible, with a nice 
gravy poured round them. 

Rissoles. 

Ingredients — Some boiled potatoes. 
Cold meat. 
A little butter. 
2 eggs. 

Bread-crumbs. 
Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Take equal quantities of boiled potatoes and 
cold meat. 

Mash the potatoes with butter, and add the meat finely 
minced. 

Mix this thoroughly with a beaten egg, adding pepper 
and salt to taste. 

Form into balls or egg shapes. 

Egg and bread-crumb them, and fry them in hot fat 
(sec French Frying). 

Dish on a folded napkin, and garnish with fried parsley. 

Cold Meat with Purde of Tomatoes. 

Ingredients — Slices of cold meat. 
4 or 5 tomatoes. 
1 small slice of bacon. 
1 bay leaf. 
1 piece of carrot, turnip, and onion. 



88 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

1 sprig of parsley. 
Thyme and marjoram. 
1 teaspoonful of vinegar. 
Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Cut the bacon into dice, and fry it. 
As soon as the fat melts, put in the tomatoes and other 
vegetables, cut in slices ; stir them, and fry lightly, and 
then rub through a hair sieve. 

Add the vinegar and pepper and salt. 
Make the puree hot in a saucepan, and lay the pieces of 
meat in it to warm through. 

Serve in a hot dish, with a border of boiled rice or 
macaroni. 

Cold-meat Pie. 

Ingredients— Slices of cold meat. 

(If liked, slices of cold boiled potatoes). 
Some stock or gravy. 
Pepper and salt. 
Some plain pastry. 

Method. — Eoll out the paste, and cut a piece large 
enough for the cover. 

Eoll out the scraps, and from them cut a band an inch 
wide. 

Wet the edge of the dish and place this round it. 

Season the meat with pepper and salt, and lay the 
slices in the dish alternately with the potatoes. 

Eaise them in the middle of the dish in a dome-like 
shape, and pour in some gravy. 

Wet the edges of the band of paste, and lay the cover 
over. 

Trim round neatly, and make a hole in the middle of 
the crust. 

Brush over with beaten egg, and decorate with paste 
leaves. 

Bake in a quick oven for half an hour. 



COLD MEAT COOKERY. 89 

Cold Meat and Macaroni. 

Ingredients — Slices of cold meat. 
Macaroni. 
Stock. 

Bread-crumbs. 

And, if possible, 2 or 3 tomatoes. 
Method. — Put the macaroni in boiling water, and boil it 
20 minutes. 

Then pour away the water, and stew it in the stock 
until tender. 

Put a layer of macaroni in the bottom of a greased pie- 
dish. 

Lay on it the meat, and cover it with another layer of 
macaroni, seasoning with pepper and salt. 

Proceed in this way, until the dish is full (the top layer 
must be macaroni). 

If tomatoes are used, slice them, and lay over the top ; 
sprinkle with brown crumbs, and bake for about 20 or 30 
minutes. 

Mayonnaise of Cold Meat. 

Ingredients — Slices of cold meat. 

Green salad. 

Beetroot. 

Hard-boiled egg. 

Some Mayonnaise sauce. 
Method. — Slice the salad, and mix the meat with it. 
Heap it high on a glass or silver dish. 
Garnish with beetroot and hard-boiled egg, and pour 
Mayonnaise sauce over {see Sauces). 

Beef and Mushrooms. 

Ingredients — H lb. cold roast beef. 
1 dozen mushrooms. 

1 shalot or small onion, very finely 
chopped. 



90 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

2 oz. of butter. 
\ pint of beef gravy. 
1 dessertspoonful of vinegar. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 
Method. — Cut the beef into neat slices, and wash and 
peel the mushrooms. 

Season the meat with pepper and salt, and lay half of 
it in the bottom of a pie-dish. 

Place some of the mushrooms on the top of it. 
Put 1 oz. of butter, in pieces, about them. 
Then put in the remaining pieces of beef, and the mush- 
rooms and butter in the same way. 

Pour in the gravy and vinegar, and cover closely. 
Put it into a moderate oven to bake for three-quarters 
of an hour. 

Beef Scalloped. 

Ingredients — Some cold roast beef minced. 

1 boiled onion, very finely chopped. 
Some mashed potatoes. 
Butter. 

Pepper and salt. 
1 egg. 

A little gravy and mushroom catsup. 
Method. — Mince the beef finely, and moisten it with a 
little nice gravy. 

Add the onion to it, and season nicely with catsup. 
Mix the mashed potatoes with plenty of butter, and the 
egg well beaten, pepper and salt. 

Place the mince in greased scallop shells, and cover 
with the potatoes. 

Bake in a quick oven until lightly browned. 
When economy has to be studied, leave out the eggs 
and substitute clarified dripping for the butter. The mix- 
ture can be baked in a pie-dish, if more convenient. 



COLD MEAT COOKEEY. 91 



Cold Beef Olives. 

Ingredients — Some cold roast beef. 

Some veal forcemeat, omitting the suet. 
Some gravy. 
Flour. 

Pepper and salt. 
Some mashed potatoes. 
Method. — Take slices of cold beef, and cut them into 
strips H inches in width. 

Lay on each a little veal stuffing ; roll them round it, 
and tie them with string. 

Put them into a stewpan close together ; pour the 
gravy over them, and simmer them gently for ten minutes. 
Dish them on a border of mashed potatoes. 
Thicken the gravy with a little flour, and pour it over 
them. 



92 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



ENTRIES. 

Quenelles of Veal. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of fillet of veal. 

1 oz. of butter. 

2 oz. of flour. 

1 gill of water. 

A few drops of lemon juice. 

2 eggs. 
Seasoning. 

Method. — Scrape the veal finely. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan ; mix in the flour. 

Then add the water and cook well. 

Put this panada into a mortar with the veal, eggs, lemon 
juice, and seasoning, and pound thoroughly. 

Then rub through a wire sieve. 

Shape the mixture somewhat like eggs with dessert- 
spoons and a knife dipped in hot water. 

Poach them gently in a greased frying-pan, or saute 
pan, for ten minutes. 

Dish them on a border of mashed potatoes, and pour 
white sauce over them. 

Garnish with chopped truffle and ham. 

Cooked green peas, mushrooms, or other vegetables, 
may be placed in the centre. 

Mutton Cutlets h. la Mac^doine. 

Ingredients— -Part of best end of neck of mutton. 

1 egg- 
Bread-crumbs. 



ENTREES. 93 

3 oz. of clarified butter. 
Seasoning. 

Method. — Saw off the chine bone, and the ends of the 
rib bones, leaving the cutlet bone three inches in length. 

Cut the cutlets with a bone to each, and beat them with 
a cutlet bat to about half an inch in thickness. 

Trim them, and leave half an inch of the rib bone bare. 

Season, egg and bread-crumb, and fry in clarified butter 
in a saute pan for five or seven minutes. 

Dish on a border of mashed potatoes, put a macedoine 
of vegetables in the centre, and pour brown sauce round 
them. 

Mutton Cutlets a la Rachel. 

Ingredients — Some mutton cutlets. 
Foie gras. 
Brown sauce. 
MacSdoine of vegetables. 
Mashed potatoes. 
Truffle. 
Pigs' caul. 
Method — Plainly fry some mutton cutlets, coat one 
side of each cutlet with the foie gras, smoothing it with a 
knife dipped in hot water. 

Lay a small piece of truffle on each cutlet and cover 
them with pigs' caul. 

Put them on a baking- sheet in a moderate oven for 
about a quarter of an hour. 

Dish them on a border of mashed potatoes. 
Pour brown sauce round them, and put a macedoine of 
vegetables in the middle. 

Epigrammes. 

Ingredients— The rib part, which was sawn off the 
mutton cutlets. 
Egg and bread-crumbs. 



94 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Method. — Boil the mutton until the bones can be easily 
removed. 

Press it, and, when cold, cut it into cutlets or other 
shapes. 

Egg and bread-crumb twice, and fry in hot fat (345°) 
in a frying-basket. 

Dish on a border of mashed potatoes, and pour brown 
sauce round them. 

Any cooked vegetables can be put in the centre for a 
garnish. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

Ingredients — 2 oz. of cooked chicken. 

1 oz. of cooked ham. 

1 oz. of butter. 

| oz. of flour. 

1 gill of stock. 

J gill of cream. 

6 button mushrooms. 

A few drops of lemon juice. 

Seasoning. 

Pastry. 
Method. — Mince the chicken, ham, and mushrooms. 
Melt the butter in a small stewpan. 
Mix in the flour. 
Pour in the stock, and cook well. 
Then add cream, lemon juice, and seasoning ; lastly, 
the chicken, ham, and mushrooms. 
Spread on a plate to cool. 
Koll out some paste as thin as possible. 
Cut into rounds. 

Put a little of the mixture on each, and egg round the 
edges. 

Fold them over, egg and bread-crumb the croquettes, 
and fry in a frying-basket in hot fat (see French Frying). 
Garnish with fried parsley. 



ENTEEES. 



Veal Cutlets k la Talleyrand. 

Ingredients — 7 or 8 veal cutlets. 
1^ oz. butter. 
3 button mushrooms, chopped. 

1 small shalot, chopped. 

A teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 
The yolks of 2 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream. 
A few drops of lemon juice. 

1 gill of white sauce (see Sauces). 
Some mashed potatoes. 
A few green peas. 
Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Fry the cutlets in the butter, sprinkling the 
mushroom, shalot, and parsley under and over them. 

When the cutlets are cooked, remove them from the 
pan and pour in the white sauce and cream. 
Stir briskly over the fire. 

Then add the yolks of the eggs ; let them thicken in the 
sauce, but be careful not to curdle them. 

Take the pan off the fire, and add the lemon juice and 
seasoning as required. 

Dish the cutlets on a border of mashed potatoes. 
Pour the sauce over them, and put a few nicely cooked 
peas, or other appropriate vegetables, in the middle. 

Fillets of Beef a la Bdarnaise. 

Ingredients — 7 or 8 nice little fillets. 

1J- oz. of butter. 

Mashed potatoes. 

\ pint of brown sauce (see Sauces), or 
good gravy. 

Some Bearnaise sauce (see Sauces). 
Method. — Fry the fillets in the butter. 



96 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Dish them on a border of mashed potatoes. 
Pour brown sauce or gravy round them, and put the 
Bear naise sauce in the middle of the fillets. 

Rabbits a la Tartare. 

Ingredients — 1 rabbit. 

Some browned bread-crumbs. 

1 egg- 

^ pint of Tartare sauce (see Sauces). 

Method. — Cut the rabbit into joints. 

Dry them well. 

Egg and bread-crumb them. 

Put them on a greased baking- sheet, with pieces of 
butter on them. 

Bake for half an hour, being careful not to dry them up 
too much. 

Pour the sauce on a dish and pile up the rabbit in the 
middle of it. 

Chicken a la Tartare. 

Proceed as in the foregoing recipe, substituting 
chicken for a rabbit. 

Pigeons Stewed & I'ltalienne. 

Ingredients — 3 pigeons. 

1 piece of carrot, turnip, and onion. 

1 pint of stock. 

1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 

1 bay leaf. 

If possible, 1 or 2 tomatoes. 

1 wineglass of sherry. 

2 oz. of butter. 

1 oz. of flour. j 

Some mashed potatoes. 
A macedoine of vegetables. 
Method. — Have the pigeons trussed as for stewing. 



ENTREES. 97 

Cut them in two, and fry them in the butter. 

Then remove the pigeons, and fry the vegetables. 

Stir the flour, and when that is a little brown, pour in 
the stock or sherry. Put in the pigeons and stew gently 
until they are tender. 

Dish them in a circle on a border of mashed potatoes. 

Strain the gravy over, and put a macedoine of vegetables 
in the centre. 

Croustards & la Reine. 

Ingredients — Some puff pastry. 

A little quenelle meat (see Quenelles of 

Veal). 
1 gill of white sauce. 
3 oz. of cold chicken minced. 

1 oz. of cooked ham minced. 

2 or 3 button mushrooms finely chopped. 
2 tablespoonfuls of cream. 

A little thick white sauce. 
Ham or truffle for decoration. 

Method. — Line some little tartlet tins with some puff 
paste, put a piece of dough in each, and bake them. 

Mix the chicken, ham, and mushrooms with the white 
sauce and cream. Add pepper and salt to taste. 

Kemove the paste cases from the tins, take the dough 
from the middle, and fill them with the chicken mixture. 

Cover the top of each with the quenelle meat spread 
like butter, put them into the oven for a few minutes to 
cook the quenelle meat. 

When dishing them up, spread a little thick white 
sauce on the top of each, and ornament them with ham 
and truffle. 

Sweetbreads k la Bechamel. 

Ingredients — 1 dozen lambs' heart sweetbreads. 
1J pint of veal stock. 
1 oz. of butter. 

H 



98 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

1 oz. of flour. 

A small piece of carrot, turnip, and onion. 

1 sprig of parsley. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream. 
A slice of lean ham. 

A few drops of lemon juice. 
Some mashed potatoes. 
A few green peas nicely boiled. 
A little finely-chopped cooked ham. 
Some parsley or truffle. 
Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Trim the sweetbreads, and soak them in cold 
water for two hours. 

Then throw them into boiling water, and simmer them 
gently for five minutes. 

Soak them again in cold water for twenty minutes. 
Then put them in a stewpan with the stock, carrot, 
turnip, onion, parsley, and ham. 

Simmer gently until the sweetbreads are quite tender. 
Then remove them, and add to the stock the flour 
mixed thoroughly with butter. 

Stir and boil well, to cook the flour. 
Add the cream, lemon juice, and seasoning. 
Strain the sauce through a fine strainer or tammy - 
cloth. 

Dish the sweetbreads in a circle on a border of mashed 
potatoes. 

Pour the sauce over them. 

Put on each sweetbread a tiny pinch of finely -chopped 
parsley, ham, or truffle ; or use all three, placing them 
alternately. 

The green peas should be put in the centre of the dish. 



Braised Sweetbreads. 

Ingredients — 2 calves' sweetbreads. 

1 pint of strong second stock. 



ENTREES. 99 

A piece of carrot, turnip, and onion. 

1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 

1 bay leaf. 

Some larding bacon. 

Some carrots and turnips cut in fancy 



Method. — Soak the sweetbreads in cold water for quite 
two hours. 

Then put them in boiling water, and simmer them for 
ten minutes to make them firm. 

Soak them again in cold water for twenty minutes, and 
then lard them nicely. 

Put the vegetables, cut in pieces, in the bottom of a 
stewpan. 

Lay the sweetbreads on them, and pour in the stock ; 
it should come half way up the sweetbreads. 

Cover them with buttered paper, and put the lid on the 
stewpan. 

Simmer gently until the sweetbreads are tender. 

Then put them on a baking-tin, and put them in the 
oven to brown. 

Strain the stock they were cooked in into a large 
saucepan, and boil it rapidly down to a glaze. 

Put the sweetbreads on a hot dish, and pour the glaze 
over. 

Carrots and turnips may be cut in fancy shapes, and 
nicely boiled to garnish the dish. 

If preferred, the sweetbreads can be cooked without 
being larded ; a slice of very thin bacon being laid on the 
top of each. 

If a proper braising-pan is used, the sweetbreads need 
not be browned in the oven. 

Lambs' sweetbreads can be cooked the same way. One 
dozen will be wanted for a small dish. 



H 2 



100 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Sweetbreads a la Parisienne. 

Ingredients — 1 dozen lambs' heart sweetbreads. 

1 pint of good second stock. 

2 oz. of butter. 
1 oz. of flour. 

A piece of carrot, turnip, and onion. 

1 sprig of parsley. 

1 dessertspoonful of mushroom catsup. 

1 wineglass of sherry. 

A few drops of lemon juice. 
Pepper and salt. 
Some mashed potatoes. 
Green peas nicely cooked. 
Method. — Trim the sweetbreads and soak them for two 
hours ; throw them in boiling water, and simmer them 
gently for five minutes ; then soak them in cold water for 
twenty minutes. 

Simmer them in the stock until they are quite tender. 
Then make the butter quite hot in a stewpan. 
Fry the sweetbreads in it until nicely browned. 
Kemove them and fry the flour ; then pour in the stock, 
and stir, and cook well ; add the catsup, wine, and lemon 
juice. 

Dish the sweetbreads on a border of mashed potatoes, 
and pour the same over them. 

Put a garnish of nicely cooked green peas in the middle. 

Minced Sweetbread. 

Ingredients — The remains of dressed sweetbreads. 

2 or 3 mushrooms. 

Enough stock to moisten nicely. 

1 teaspoonful of flour. 

A slice of cooked ham. 

A few drops of lemon juice. 

1 oz. of butter. 

Pepper and salt. 



ENTREES. 101 

Method. — Mince the sweetbreads, musrhooms, and ham. 

Melt the butter in a stewpan, and fry the mushrooms 
in it. 

Put in the flour, and mix it smoothly with the butter. 

Then put in the sweetbread and ham, and enough 
stock to mix nicely. 

Add lemon juice, pepper, and salt, to taste. 

Make it hot, and then put the mixture into oiled-paper 
cases. 

Sprinkle over the top of each a few browned crumbs, 
and put in the oven for a few minutes. 

Fried Sweetbread. 

Ingredients — 1 dozen lambs' heart sweetbreads. 
1 pint of good stock. 
1 oz. of butter. 
1 oz. of flour. 

A few drops of lemon juice. 
If liked, ^ wineglass of sherry. 
Eggs and bread-crumbs. 
Some mashed potatoes and green peas. 
Method. — Trim the sweetbreads, and soak them in cold 
water for two hours. 

Then throw them into the boiling stock, and simmer 
them for half an hour or more until quite tender. 
If possible, let them get cold in the stock. 
Then egg and bread-crumb them, and fry them in a 
frying basket in hot fat (see French Frying). 

To make a sauce, melt the butter in a saucepan. 
Mix in the flour smoothly, pour in the stock, and stir 
and cook well ; add lemon juice, pepper, and salt to taste, 
and, if liked, a little sherry. 

Dish the sweetbreads on the potatoes ; pour the sauce 
round them, and put the peas in the centre. 

The sauce should be made before the sweetbreads are 
fried, that there may be no delay in serving. 



102 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

If calves' sweetbreads are used, proceed in the same way, 
cutting them in neat slices before frying. 

Cutlets of Veal with Tomato Sauce. 

Ingredients — 2 lb. of fillet of veal. 

2 or 3 oz. of butter, or some of the fat 

skimmed from the stock-pot. 
1 pint of tomato sauce. 
\ lb. macaroni, nicely stewed in milk and 

seasoned with Parmesan cheese. 
Some mashed potatoes. 
1 uncooked tomato. 
Method. — Cut the veal into neat little cutlets, and fry 
them nicely in the butter or skimming. 

Dish them in a circle on a border of potatoes. 
Pile the macaroni high in the middle. 
Pour tomato sauce round, and garnish the macaroni 
with small strips of uncooked tomato. 

Beef Olives. 

Ingredients — 1 J lb. of thick beefsteak. 

Some veal stuffing. 

1^ pint of stock. 

1 oz. of butter. 

1 oz. of flour. 

A few drops of lemon juice. 

Pepper and salt. 

Some mashed potatoes. 

A few carrots and turnips, cut in fancy 
shapes, and nicely cooked. 
Method. — Cut the beef into thin strips, lay a little 
forcemeat on each, and roll them up. 
Tie each roll with a little fine string. 
Put them in a stewpan close together, and cover them 
with the stock. 



ENTBEES. 103 

Stew them gently for two or three hours until quite 
tender. 

Then place them in a circle on a border of mashed 
potatoes. 

Kemove any fat from the stock, and stir in the butter 
and flour thoroughly mixed together. 

Cook the flour well, and then add the lemon juice and 
seasoning. 

Strain the sauce over the olives, and put the vegetables 
in the centre. 

Veal a la Bechamel. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of cold cooked veal. 

J lb. of button mushrooms. 
■J pint of Bechamel sauce. 
The yolks of 2 eggs. 
Some fried sippets of bread. 
Method. — Cut the veal into large dice. 
Clean the mushrooms and stew them in the sauce until 
tender. 

Then add the yolks of two eggs well beaten. 
Stir over the fire until they thicken, but on no account 
let the sauce boil, as that might curdle the eggs. 

Last of all, put in the pieces of veal, and let the sauce- 
pan remain by the fire until they are thoroughly heated. 
Serve garnished with fried sippets of bread. 

Grenadines of Veal. 

Ingredients — 2 lb. of veal. 

Some larding bacon. 
Some good second stock. 
1 piece of carrot, turnip, onion. 
1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 
Some nicely boiled green peas. 
Method. — Cut the fillet into nice oval-shaped cutlets, 
about half an inch in thickness, and lard them. 



104 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Put the vegetables, cut in small pieces, at the bottom of 
the stewpan. 

Lay the cutlets on them, and pour in sufficient stock to 
come half way up the cutlets. 

Cover them with buttered paper, and put them on a slow 
fire to simmer gently until tender. 

Then put them on a baking-tin in the oven to brown. 

Strain the stock and boil it with a half-pint more to a 
strong glaze. 

Dish the grenadines on a border of mashed potatoes. 

Pour a little glaze over each, and put the green peas in 
the middle. 

Mayonnaise of Fowl. 

Cold Entree for Suppers. 
Ingredients — 2 fowls. 

J pint of mayonnaise sauce. 
A cucumber. 
4 hard-boiled eggs. 
1 pint of aspic jelly. 
A beetroot. 
Method. — Boil the fowls and cut them into neat joints. 
Put them in a dish in a circle, the one leaning on the 
other. 

Place in the middle a bunch of endive, and coat the pieces 
of chicken with mayonnaise sauce. 

Cut the hard-boiled eggs in quarters, and lay them round 
the chicken with slices of cucumber and beetroot, and 
garnish with a border of chopped aspic. 

Veal Cutlets. 

Ingredients — 2 lb. of veal cutlet. 

Egg and bread-crumbs. 
3 oz. of clarified butter, 
l oz. of flour. 
•J pint of nice stock. 
Some mashed potatoes. 



ENTKEES. 105 

Method. — Beat the cutlet well to break the fibre of the 
meat, and then cut it into neat oval or round shapes. 

Brush them with the egg and cover them with fine bread- 
crumbs. 

Fry them in a cutlet-pan in the butter. 

When they are cooked pour some of the butter from the 
pan. 

Stir in the flour smoothly. 

Pour in the stock, and cook well. 

Add pepper and salt and a few drops of lemon juice. 

Dish the cutlets in a circle on a border of mashed 
potatoes 

Strain the gravy round them, and put some nice little 
rolls of bacon in the middle. 

To cook the bacon, cut it in thin slices ; roll them, and 
put them on a skewer ; they may be either toasted or baked. 

Veal Cutlets a I'ltalienne. 

Ingredients — 1J lb. of fillet of veal. 
Cut into neat cutlets. 
2 oz. of butter. 
Egg and bread-crumbs. 
Some carrot and turnip, cut in fancy 

shapes and boiled. 
•J pint of Italian sauce. 
Method. — Egg and bread-crumb the cutlets and fry them 
in the butter. 

Dish them on a border of mashed potatoes. 
Pour Italian sauce over, and put the vegetables in the 
middle. 

Make the Italian sauce with the butter the cutlets are 
fried in. 

Fillets of Chicken. 

Ingredients — Some little fillets of chicken cut from the 
breast. 
Some streaky bacon. 



106 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

-| pint of Bechamel sauce, made with 

white stock. 
Some mashed potatoes. 
Method. — Lay the fillet on a greased baking-tin. 
Cover with buttered paper and put them into a moderate 
oven for ten or fifteen minutes. 

Dish them on a border of mashed potatoes. 
Pour the sauce over and put little rolls of nicely cooked 
bacon in the middle. 

To cook the bacon, cut it into very thin strips and roll 
them, run a skewer through, and toast them before the fire. 

Chicken a la Marengo. 

Ingredients — 1 chicken. 

1^ pint of second stock. 

3 tomatoes. 

1 piece of carrot, turnip, and onion. 

1 sprig of parsley, thyme, marjoram. 

2 oz. of butter. 
1 oz. of flour. 

A few drops of lemon juice. 

Method. — Cut the chicken into neat joints and fry them 
in the butter. 

Then remove them and fry the vegetables. 

Add the flour and fry that. 

Then pour in the stock ; stir and boil for three minutes. 

Then put in the chicken and the tomato, sliced. 

Simmer for about thirty minutes, until the chicken is 
quite tender. 

Then put the chicken on to an entree dish. 

Add some lemon juice to the gravy, and strain over it. 

Chicken k la Cardinal. 

Ingredients. — 1 chicken. 

1J pint of Bechamel sauce. 

4 ripe tomatoes. 



ENTKEES. 107 

' Method. — Cut the chicken into joints and put them in 
a stewpan with the sauce and tomatoes, sliced. 

Simmer gently until the chicken is quite tender. 

Then place them on a hot entree dish and strain the 
sauce over them. 

Kidneys and Mushrooms. 

Ingredients — 2 dozen medium sized mushrooms. 
6 sheep's kidneys. 
1 pint of second stock. 
1 oz. of butter. 

1 oz. of flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream. 
A few drops of lemon juice. 

Method. — Peel the mushrooms, cut off the stalks, and 
wash them. 

Wipe the kidneys and slice them, put them in a stew- 
pan with the stock and mushrooms. 

Simmer them gently for thirty minutes or more, until 
quite tender. 

Mix the butter and flour very smoothly, stir them in 
and boil for about three minutes. 

Add the cream and let it boil, season to taste, and 
squeeze in a few drops of lemon juice. 

Curried Rabbit. 

Ingredients — 1 apple. 

1 onion. 

2 dessertspoonfuls of curry powder. 
\\ pint of second stock. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream. 
2 oz. of butter. 
2 dessertspoonfuls of flour. 
Salt. 

A few drops of lemon juice. 
Method. — Cut the rabbit into neat joints and fry them 
in the butter. 



108 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Then remove them and fry the onion and apple, sliced. 

Mix the curry powder and flour smoothly with the stock. 

Put it into a stewpan ; stir and boil three minutes. 

Put in the rabbit and add the onion and apple, which 
should be rubbed through a hair sieve. 

Simmer gently for thirty minutes or more, until the 
rabbit is tender. 

Add the cream and let it boil in the sauce. 

Squeeze in the lemon juice and add salt. 

If a dry curry is liked, remove the rabbit when tender, 
and boil and reduce the sauce to half the quantity, leaving 
only sufficient to coat the pieces of rabbit well. 

Serve nicely cooked rice with the curry (see Rice for 
Curry). 

Curried Chicken. 

Make according to the directions in the preceding recipe, 
using white stock or boiled milk. 

Mutton Cutlets a la Milanaise. 

Ingredients — 7 or more mutton cutlets. 

2 eggs, white bread-crumbs. 

3 oz. Parmesan cheese, grated. 
A little boiled macaroni. 

^ pint brown sauce. 
Some mashed potatoes. 
2 oz. clarified butter, or the fat skimming 
of the stock-pot. 
Method. — Trim the cutlets neatly. 
Brush them with egg and cover them with bread-crumbs 
mixed with 2 oz. of the grated cheese. 

Fry them for about five minutes in a cutlet pan. 
Dish them on a border of mashed potatoes and put some 
nicely-cooked macaroni in the centre with 1 oz. of grated 
cheese. 

Pour the brown sauce round them and serve very hot. 



ENTREES. 109 

Chaud-froid Chicken. 

Cold Entree foe Suppers and Luncheons. 

Ingredients — The best joints of 2 chickens. 
1 pint of Bechamel sauce. 
£ oz. of Swinborne's or Nelson's Gelatine. 
Some aspic jelly. 
Endive and lettuce. 
Method. — Melt the gelatine and mix it with the sauce. 
Coat the pieces of chicken carefully with it, giving them 
each two coats if they require it. 

When the sauce is firm, place them in a circle on an 
entree dish. 

Put some lettuce, nicely mixed with salad dressing, in 
the centre, and garnish prettily with the endive. 

A border of aspic jelly should be placed round the 
chicken. 

If liked, the chicken may be decorated with truffle or ham. 

Rissoles of Game. 

Ingredients — Some scraps of cold game. 

Some very stiff second stock. 

Lemon juice, pepper, salt. 

Egg and bread-crumbs. 
Method. — Mince the game finely. 
Melt the stock and moisten the game well with it. 
Add pepper and salt, and a few drops of lemon juice. 
Spread the mixture on a plate to get cold. 
When cold it will be quite firm. 
Mould it into balls or egg shapes. 
Cover them with egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them 
in hot fat (see French Frying). 

Serve on a folded napkin, and garnish with fried parsley. 



110 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Podovies. 

Ingredients. — Some cooked beef, minced finely. 
A little thick gravy, lemon juice. 
A little pastry. 
Pepper and salt. 

Some crushed vermicelli and one or two 
eggs. 
Method. — Mix the beef with the gravy ; season it with 
pepper and salt. 

Roll out the pastry as thin as possible. 
Cut it into rounds with a good-sized cutter. 
Brush the edges of the rounds with beaten egg, and put 
a little of the minced meat in the middle of each. 
Fold them over, pressing the edges well together. 
Cover with the egg, and then with the vermicelli. 
Drop them into hot fat (see French Frying) and fry them 
a golden brown. As they will rise to the top of the fat, it 
will be necessary to keep them under with a wire basket or 
spoon. Dish on a folded napkin and garnish with fried 
parsley. 



Ill 



FISH COOKERY. 
To Boil Fish. 

Be very careful that the fish is thoroughly cleansed, then 
place it on the fish-strainer, and tie a cloth, or piece of 
muslin, over it. (This is to prevent any scum settling on 
the fish to disfigure it, or spoil its colour.) Immerse it in 
boiling water, to which two tablespoonfuls of salt, and two 
of vinegar, have been added ; boil it for three minutes to set 
the albumen on the outside, and so form a casing to keep 
in the juices and flavour of the fish. Then draw the kettle 
to the side of the fire and simmer gently until the fish is 
cooked. For a thick piece of fish, six minutes to each 
pound, and six minutes over, is the time usually allowed ; 
but no hard-and-fast rule can be laid down, as the time it 
will take to cook depends on the size and shape, as well as 
on the weight of the fish. When the fish is cooked, it will 
have an opaque appearance ; and on being pulled, will leave 
the bone readily. Care must be taken to cook it sufficiently 
but not to over-boil it. Under-done fish is very unpleasant, 
while over-cooked fish is flavourless, and breaks to pieces. 

Salt fish is put into lukewarm water for the purpose of 
drawing out some of the salt, and must be simmered until 
tender. Mackerel should also be put into lukewarm water, 
as the skin is very tender, and boiling water would break it. 

When the fish is cooked, remove the cloth, or muslin, 
and place the strainer across the kettle that the fish may 
get well drained. Cover it with a hot cover, and leave it in 
that position for a few minutes. Then dish, on a folded 



112 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

napkin ; or on a strainer, if sauce is poured over it. Gar- 
nish tastefully, and serve with an appropriate sauce. Small 
cod, or salmon, if boiled whole, should be trussed in the 
form of the letter S. 

Baked Fish. 

The oven should be kept at a moderate heat, that the 
fish may not be dried up. Small fish may be cooked with 
great advantage in the oven, if carefully covered with 
buttered paper, which will keep them moist, and prevent 
any baked flavour. 

Fried Fish. 

Small fish, such as whiting, smelts, &c, are generally 
fried whole. Larger fish, such as cod and salmon, are fried 
in the shape of cutlets. Fish to be fried, must be covered with 
egg and crumbs, or batter. A stewpan, half full of fat, and 
not a frying-pan, should be used for the purpose (see French 
Frying), except in the case of the sole ; and for that, the new 
fish-fryer, with a wire strainer, is far better than the old- 
fashioned pan. The bread-crumbs, for fish, should be pre- 
pared by rubbing stale bread through a wire sieve. 

Boiled Turbot. 

Boil it according to the directions for boiling fish. It 
usually takes from half an hour to an hour, according to 
its size. It should be dished on a folded napkin, with the 
white side uppermost ; and garnished with cut lemon, 
parsley, and coral. Serve with it lobster, shrimp, or 
anchovy sauce. 

Boiled Brill. 

This fish is cooked like turbot ; garnished in the same 
way, and served with the same sauces. 



FISH COOKEEY. 113 



Boiled Salmon. 

Boil according to the directions given for boiling fish. 
Truss a small salmon in the form of the letter S. Dish on 
a folded napkin ; and garnish with parsley and coral. Serve 
with lobster, shrimp, anchovy, or tartare sauce. 

Boiled Cod. 

Boil according to directions given for boiling fish. A 
small piece is often served with thick egg- sauce poured over 
it, and garnished with the yolk of an egg rubbed through a 
wire sieve. 

Salt Cod, Haddock, Plaice, and any Fish, 

May be boiled according to directions given for boiling 
fish, and served with egg, anchovy, or any other appropriate 
sauce. 

Curried Fish. 

Ingredients — 1^ lb. of cold boiled fish. 

1 small onion. 

1 small apple. 

^ pint of second stock. 

A few drops of lemon juice. 

1 oz. of butter. 

1 dessertspoonful of curry powder. 

1 dessertspoonful of flour. 

Salt. 
Method. — Slice the onion and apple ; fry them in the 
butter, and then rub them through a hair sieve. 

Mix the flour and curry powder smoothly with the 
stock. 

Stir over the fire and boil well. 
Then add the onion, apple, lemon juice, and salt. 
Break the fish into pieces, and remove the bones. 

i 



114 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Put it into the sauce, and let it warm through. 
Serve with a border of rice round it. 



Kedgeree. 

Ingredients — The remains of cooked fish. 

An equal quantity of boiled rice. 
2 hard-boiled eggs. 
A little butter. 
Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Break the fish into flakes, removing all the 
bones. 

Melt a little butter in a saucepan. 
Put in the rice, fish, and the whites of the eggs cut 
small, pepper and salt. 

Stir over the fire until quite hot. 

Heap it on a hot dish in the form of a pyramid, and 
sprinkle over it the yolks of the eggs, rubbed through a 
wire sieve. 

Baked Herrings. 

Ingredients — A few herrings. 

Browned bread-crumbs. 
A little butter or dripping. 
Parsley. 
Method. — Split open the herrings, and remove the back- 
bone. 

Boll them up, and place them with their roes on a 
greased baking- sheet. 

Cover them with greased paper, and put them into a 
moderate oven for ten or fifteen minutes until cooked. 

Place the rolls on a folded napkin, and sprinkle some 
brown bread-crumbs in a straight line on each. 
Garnish with the roes and sprigs of parsley. 



FISH COOKERY. 115 



Herrings baked in Vinegar. 

Ingredients— A. few herrings. 

1 dessertspoonful of finely-chopped 

parsley. 
1 small onion. 
Vinegar. 
Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Grease a pie-dish, and put some herrings at 
the bottom. 

Sprinkle them with the parsley and onion finely 
chopped, and the pepper and salt. 

Put another layer of herrings on the top, and sprinkle 
them similarly. 

Proceed in the same way until the dish is full. 
Cover them with vinegar. 

Place over them a dish, and bake in a slow oven for 
three or four hours. 

Herrings cooked in this way are used cold. 



Smelts Fried. 

Ingredients — Smelts. 

Bread-crumbs. 
Parsley. 
Method. — Dry the smelts well, and fix their tails in 
their mouths. 

Cover them with egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them 
a golden brown in a frying-basket in hot fat (see French 
Frying). 

Garnish with fried parsley, and serve with melted butter 
or other suitable sauce. 



i 2 



116 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Smelts au gratin. 

Ingredients — Some smelts. 

A few button mushrooms. 
1 slialot. 

1 sprig of parsley. 
Lemon juice. 
Pepper and salt. 
Browned bread-crumbs. 
Glaze. 
Method. — Lay the smelts on a greased baking-sheet. 
Sprinkle under and over them the parsley, shalot, and 
mushrooms, finely chopped, with lemon juice, pepper, and 
salt. 

Cover them with browned bread-crumbs, and put little 
bits of butter over them. 

Bake them in a moderate oven for seven or ten minutes. 
Put them on a hot dish, and pour melted glaze over them. 

Ling and Hake. 

These two fish may be cooked according to any of the 
recipes given for dressing cod. 

Salmon a la Tartare. 

Ingredients — A piece of salmon. 
Some tartare sauce. 
Chopped parsley. 
Coral. 
Method. — Boil the salmon carefully according to the 
directions given for boiling fish. 

Garnish with coral and parsley, and serve with tartare 
sauce {see Sauces). 

If the salmon is served cold, the tartare sauce is poured 
over it. If hot, it is served in a sauce-boat. 



FISH COOKERY. 117 

A slice of salmon is frequently grilled, and served with 
tartare sauce. 

Pickled Salmon. 

Ingredients — Some boiled salmon. 

1 dozen peppercorns. 

2 saltspoonfuls of salt, 

3 bay leaves. 

Equal quantities of vinegar and the liquor 
the fish was boiled in. 
Method. — Lay the salmon in a deep pan or pie-dish. 
Boil the fish liquor, vinegar, and other ingredients for 
a quarter of an hour. 

Let it get cold, and then pour over the salmon, which 
should be allowed to remain in the pickle until the next 
day. 

Whitebait. 

Ingredients — Whitebait. 
Flour. 

Method. — Put plenty of oil or fat into a stewpan, and 
make it hot (see French Frying). The heat of the fat for 
whitebait should be 400°. 

Have a good heap of flour on a cloth. 

As soon as the fat is hot, throw the whitebait into the 
flour, and, taking the cloth by each end, shake the whitebait 
rapidly until they are well floured. 

Turn them quickly into a frying-basket. 

Shake the basket well for the loose flour to drop off, 
and throw the whitebait into the fat for a minute. 

As soon as they rise to the surface, remove them with 
a fish-slice, and drain them on kitchen paper. 

Serve them with brown bread and butter, and slices of 
lemon. 



118 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Oyster Patties. 

Ingredients — G patty cases. 

2J dozen oysters. 
1 oz. of butter. 
1 oz. of flour. 
\ pint of milk. 
\ pint of cream. 
A few drops of lemon juice. 
Pepper and salt. 
A little cayenne. 
Method. — Beard the oysters, and cut off the hard white 
part ; cut each oyster in two. 

Strain the oyster liquor through muslin. 
Put the beards into the milk, and simmer them in it to 
extract the flavour. 

Then melt the butter in a saucepan, and mix in the 
flour smoothly. 

Strain in the milk, and add the oyster liquor. Stir and 
cook well. 

Then add the cream, and let it boil in the sauce. 
Lastly, add the pepper, salt, cayenne, and the oysters. 
Fill the patty cases with the mixture. 
Put the lid on each, and decorate with powdered lobster 
coral. 

Serve hot or cold. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Ingredients — Some oysters. 

A little butter, and bread-crumbs. 

Method. — Grease some scallop shells, and place on each 
two or three oysters. 

Cover them with bread-crumbs, and put a little piece of 
butter on each. 

Brown them in a quick oven, and serve very hot. 



FISH COOKERY. 119 



Scalloped Oysters k la Frangaise. 

Ingredients — 2J dozen oysters. 
1 oz. of butter. 

1 oz. of flour. 
£ pint of milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream. 
A few drops of lemon juice. 
Pepper and salt. 

Some bread-crumbs. 

Method. — Beard the oysters, and cut them in two. 

Strain the oyster liquor through muslin. 

Simmer the beards in the milk. 

Melt the butter in a small stewpan, and mix in the 
flour smoothly. 

Strain in the milk, add the oyster liquor, stir, and cook 
well. 

Then add the cream, and let it boil in the sauce. 

Lastly, add lemon juice, pepper, salt, cayenne, and 
oysters. 

Grease some scallop shells, and sprinkle them with 
bread-crumbs. 

Fill them with the mixture, and sprinkle some more 
crumbs over them. 

Brown in a quick oven. 

Serve on a folded napkin, and garnish with parsley and 
cut lemon. 

Mackerel a la Normande. 

Ingredients — 1 dessertspoonful of bread-crumbs. 
2 mackerel. 

Half a shalot, chopped finely. 
1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley. 
£ teaspoonful dried and powdered herbs. 
J oz. of butter or dripping. 
Pepper and salt. 



120 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Method. — Split open the mackerel, and remove the 
back-bones as cleanly as possible. 

Grease a baking-tin, and lay one of the mackerel, skin 
downwards, on it. 

Mix the herbs, parsley, shalot, and bread-crumbs to- 
gether with pepper and salt, and sprinkle them over the 
fish. 

Lay the other mackerel on the top, with the skin upper- 
most. 

Put little bits of butter or dripping about it, and bake 
from ten minutes to a quarter of an hour. 

For serving, sprinkle over a few brown bread-crumbs. 



Haddock Stuffed. 

Ingredients — 1 haddock. 

3 tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs. 
1 dessertspoonful of finely-chopped parsley. 
1 teaspoonful of dried and powdered herbs. 
Pepper and salt. 

Part of an egg, or a little milk, to bind the 
stuffing. 
Method. — Mix the crumbs, parsley, herbs, pepper and 
salt, with the egg or milk. 

Put the stuffing in the haddock, and fasten it with a 
small skewer. 

Then truss it with string, or two skewers, in the form 
of the letter S. 

Place it on a greased baking-tin ; and put a few pieces 
of butter or dripping on it. 

Bake it in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. 
To serve, place it on a dish and remove the skewers. 
Garnish with parsley. 



FISH COOKERY. 121 



Cutlets of Cod. 

Ingredients — The tail of a cod. 
1 egg. 

Bread-crumbs. 
Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Cut the tail of a cod into neat cutlets. 
Season them with pepper and salt, and cover them with 
egg and bread-crumbs. 

Fry them in a frying-basket in hot fat {see French 
Frying). 

Serve on a folded napkin, and garnish with fried 
parsley. 

Cutlets of Cod a I'ltalienne. 

Ingredients — The tail of a cod. 
A little butter. 
Lemon juice. 
Pepper and salt. 
Some Italian sauce. 
Method. — Divide the cod into neat cutlets. 
Place them on a greased baking- sheet. 
Sprinkle over them a few drops of lemon juice, pepper, 
and salt, and cover them with buttered paper. 

Bake them in a moderate oven from ten to twelve 
minutes. 

Dish them in a circle, and pour over them some Italian 
sauce (see Sauces). 

Garnish with coral and truffle. 



Cutlets of Cod a la Genoise. 

Cook some cod cutlets as in preceding recipe, and serve 
with Genoise sauce {see Sauces). Garnish with coral and 
truffle. 



122 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Cod with Tomatoes. 

Ingredients — Hlb. of cod cutlets. 
5 or 6 tomatoes. 

1 tablespoonful of vinegar. 
Cayenne pepper and salt. 

Method. — Bub the tomatoes through a hair sieve. 

Then put the puree thus obtained into a saucepan, and 
lay the pieces of cod in it. There should be enough tomato 
puree to cover the cod. 

Simmer gently until the cod is tender. 

Add the vinegar and seasoning, dish in a circle, and 
pour the tomato over. 

Cod Fricassee. 

Ingredients — Some boiled cod, either hot or cold. 
Plain white sauce (see Sauces). 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 
Method. — Break the fish into flakes. 
Make the sauce quite hot. 

Put the fish into it, and warm it through. 
There should be just enough sauce to moisten the cod. 
Heap it in a pyramid shape on a hot dish. 
Garnish it with rings cut from the hard-boiled eggs. 
Sprinkle over the top of the cod the yolks rubbed 
through a wire sieve or strainer. 

Cod Sounds Boiled. 

Ingredients — Some cod sounds ; milk ; water. 
Bechamel sauce. 
Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Soak the sounds in water for about six hours. 
Then boil them in milk and water for half an hour or 
more until quite tender. 



FISH COOKEEY. 123 

Cut them in pieces about two inches square, and make 
them hot in some Bechamel sauce. 

Pile them on a clish in the form of a pyramid, with 
slices of hard-boiled egg, cut lemon, and parsley. 

Marinaded Cod Sounds. 

Ingredients — Cod sounds. 
Milk. 
Water. 
Oil. 

Vinegar. 
Shalot. 
Parsley. 

Pepper and salt. 
Butter. 
Method. — Soak the cod sounds in water for about six 
hours, and then boil them in milk and water until tender. 
Cut them in pieces an inch and a half square. 
Mix together equal quantities of oil and vinegar, and 
add to them a shalot and some parsley, very finely chopped ; 
pepper, and salt. 

Steep the sounds in the marinade. 
Just before serving, dip each one in Kromeshy batter, 
and fry in hot fat (see French Frying). 

Dish in a circle, and pour over them some piquant 
sauce. 

Decorate with truffle and coral. 

Cod Stuffed and Baked. 

Ingredients — A thick slice from the middle of the cod. 

Some veal stuffing. 

Browned bread-crumbs. 
Method. — Fasten the stuffing securely in the cod. 
Place it on a greased baking-sheet, and cover it with 
browned crumbs. 



124 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Place small pieces of butter or dripping about it, and 
bake it in a moderate oven for about half an hour, basting 
occasionally. 

Serve with cut lemon, and garnish with parsley. 

Note. — A small cod may be stuffed and cooked like a haddock. 

Plaice. 

This fish may be boiled, baked, or fried. 

Fried Fillets of Plaice. 

Fillet the plaice by cutting down the centre of the fish 
with a sharp knife and removing the flesh from either side. 

Egg and bread-crumb the fillets, and fry in hot fat 
(see French Frying). 

Drain on kitchen paper, serve on a folded napkin, and 
garnish with fried parsley. 

Fried Fillets of Sole. 

Prepare like the fillets of plaice, with the exception 
that the sole should be skinned before it is filleted. 

Fish Croquettes. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of cooked fish (haddock, cod, ling, 
or hake are the best for the purpose). 

1 oz. of butter. 

2 or 3 eggs. 
Pepper and salt. 
Some white crumbs. 
Parsley. 

1 lb. of boiled potatoes. 
Method. — Rub the potatoes through a sieve. 
Break the fish into flakes, removing the bones. 
Mix the fish and potatoes together ; blend them 



FISH COOKERY. 125 

thoroughly with the butter, pepper, salt, and a well-beaten 

egg- 
Form the mixture into balls or cakes. 
Egg and bread-crumb them, and fry them in hot fat 

(see French Frying). 

Serve on a folded napkin, and garnish with fried 

parsley. 

Fish Pudding. 

Make a mixture of fish and potatoes as in preceding 
recipe. Put it on a dish that will stand the heat of the 
oven, and mould it into the form of a fish. 

Bake for half an hour. 

Hallibut. 

This fish may be cooked and served like cod or turbot. 

Red Mullets k I'ltalienne. 

Ingredients — 4 or 6 red mullets. 

2 dessertspoonfuls of mushroom catsup. 
A little butter. 
Lemon juice. 
Pepper and salt. 
Some Italian sauce. 
Method. — Lay the mullets in a well-buttered baking- 
sheet ; moisten them with the catsup, and sprinkle with 
lemon juice, pepper, and salt. 

Put some little bits of butter over them. 
Bake in a moderate oven for a quarter of an hour or 
more until cooked. 

Lay them on a hot dish. 

Mix the liquor from the mullets with some Italian 
sauce (see Sauces), and pour over. 
Garnish with truffle and coral. 



126 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Red Mullets a la Genoise. 

Ingredients — Ked mullets. 
\ glass of port. 
A few drops of lemon juice. 
Pepper. 

Some Genoise sauce. 
A little butter. 
Method. — Lay the mullets on a well-greased baking- 
sheet. 

Moisten them with the port wine and lemon juice, and 
put little bits of butter about them. 

Bake them in a moderate oven until cooked. 
Lay them on a hot dish. 

Mix the liquor from the mullets with the Genoise 
sauce, and pour over them. 



Red Mullet in Cases. 

Ingredients — 4 red mullets. 

1 dozen button mushrooms. 

1 dessertspoonful of finely -chopped 
parsley. 

2 shalots. 
Lemon-juice. 
Pepper and salt. 
Salad oil. 

Method. — Chop the shalots and mushrooms, and mix 
them with the parsley. 

Oil some pieces of foolscap paper. 

Lay the mullets on them ; sprinkle over them the 
parsley, mushroom, shalot, lemon juice, pepper and salt. 

Fold them in the cases, and cook on a well-greased 
baking- sheet, in a moderate oven, for about twenty or 
thirty minutes. 



FISH COOKEKY. 127 

Boiled Whiting. 

Fasten the tail in the mouth of each whiting, and lay 
them on a fish strainer. 

Put them into boiling water, with salt in it, and cook 
them gently for five minutes or more. 

Dish on a folded napkin, and garnish with parsley, 
coral, and cut lemon. 

Serve with them maitre d' hotel, Bechamel, Italian, 
Genoise, or any other suitable sauce. 

Fried Whiting. 

Ingredients — Some whiting. 

Bread-crumbs. 
Parsley. 
Lemon juice. 
Method. — Skin the whiting, and fasten the tail in the 
mouth. 

Dry them well with a cloth. 

Egg and bread-crumb them, and fry them in a frying- 
basket, in hot fat (see French Frying). 

Drain them on kitchen paper, and dish on a folded 
napkin. 

Garnish with fried parsley and cut lemon. 
Bechamel, lobster, shrimp, Italian, Genoise, or any 
other suitable souce, may be served with them. 

Whiting a I'ltalienne. 

Ingredients — Whiting. 

Lemon-juice. 

Pepper and salt. 

A little butter. 

Italian sauce. 
Method. — Skin and fillet the whiting. 



128 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Lay the fillets on a well-buttered baking- sheet. 

Sprinkle with lemon-juice, pepper and salt, and cover 
them with buttered paper. 

Cook them in a moderate oven, from seven to ten 
minutes. 

Dish in a circle, and pour Italian sauce over. 

Garnish with truffle and coral. 

Whiting k la Genoise. 

Prepare the whiting as in preceding receipt, substituting 
Genoise for Italian sauce. 

Lobster Cutlets. 

Ingredients — 1 hen lobster. 

1^ oz. of butter. 
1 oz. of flour. 

1 gill of cold water. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream. 
A few drops of lemon juice. 
Cayenne. 

Pepper and salt. 
Some spawn or coral. 
Egg and bread-crumbs. 
Parsley. 
Method. — Kemove the flesh from the body of the lobster, 
and cut it up. 

Pound the coral in a mortar, with half an ounce of 
butter, and rub it through a hair sieve. (If spawn is used 
it need not be pounded.) 

Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan. 
Mix in the flour ; add the water ; stir until it thickens. 
Then add the coral, and butter, and cook well. 
Next the cream, lemon juice, cayenne, pepper, salt, and 
lastly the chopped lobster. 

Spread the mixture on a plate to cool. 
When cool, shape into cutlets. 



FISH COOKERY. 129 

Egg and bread-crumb, and fry in hot fat in a frying - 
basket. 

Put a piece of the feeler in each, to represent a bone. 
Garnish with fried parsley. 

Lobster Cutlets in Aspic. 

Shape some of the lobster-cutlet mixture into cutlets. 

Koll in dried and powdered coral, and put a piece of 
feeler in each. 

Pour a little aspic jelly into a clean Yorkshire -pudding 
tin, or frying-pan. 

When set, lay the cutlets on it, and pour in, gently, 
enough aspic to cover them. 

When firm, cut them out with a border of aspic to 
each, and serve on chopped aspic. 



Fried Sole. 

Ingredients — A sole. 
Egg. 

Bread-crumbs. 
Parsley. 

Method.— Eemove the dark skin, and notch the other, 
here and there, with a knife. 

Dry the sole well in a floured cloth. 

Brush over with egg, and cover with bread-crumbs. 

Flatten them on with a broad-bladed knife, and fry the 
sole a golden brown in hot fat (for heat of fat sec French 
Frying). 

A fish-fryer, or a deep frying-pan, should be used for 
the purpose ; and there should be sufficient fat to cover the 
sole, so that it will not require turning. 

When cooked, drain on kitchen paper. 

Dish on a folded napkin. 

Garnish with fried parsley. 



130 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Sole a la Parisienne. 

Ingredients — 1 sole. 

1 wineglass of sherry. 
J pint of good second stock. 
A few drops of lemon juice. 
1 teaspoonful of Harvey's sauce. 
1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 
Method. — Remove the dark skin, and notch the other 
with a knife. 

Lay the sole in a baking-pan, and pour over it the 
stock and sherry. 

Cover with a dish, and bake for twenty or thirty 
minutes in a moderate oven. 
Place it on a hot dish. 

Boil the stock rapidly down to half the quantity. 
Add to it the sauces, lemon juice, and seasoning, and 
pour it over the sole. 

Fillets of Sole a la Rouennaise. 

Ingredients — 2 or more soles. 
Lemon juice. 
Lobster-cutlet mixture. 
Some white sauce. 
Chopped truffle. 
Method.— Remove both skins from the soles, and fillet 
them. 

Spread some of the lobster- cutlet mixture on the half 
of each fillet, and fold over. 

Place on a greased baking- sheet ; sprinkle over lemon 
juice and salt, and cover with buttered paper. 

Bake in a moderate oven for about twelve minutes. 
Dish in a circle, and pour over white sauce, mixed with 
chopped truffle. 



FISH COOKEEY. 131 



Fillets of Sole a la Mattre d'H6tel. 

Ingredients — Fillets of sole. 

Lemon juice and salt. 

Method. — Boll or fold the fillets, and cook like the 
Sole d la Bouennaise. 

Cover them with the same sauce as in the last recipe, 
using chopped parsley instead of truffle. 

Sole au gratin. 

Ingredients — 1 sole. 

1 dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. 
1 chopped shalot. 
6 chopped button mushrooms. 
Lemon juice. 
Pepper and salt. 
\ oz. of butter. 
Brown bread-crumbs. 
Method. — Grease a dish that will stand the heat of the 
oven. 

Sprinkle on it half of the parsley, shalot, and mush- 
room, with lemon juice, pepper, and salt. 

Lay the sole on the mixture, and sprinkle the remainder 
of the parsley, &c, over it. 

Cover with brown bread-crumbs, and put half an ounce 
of butter about it, in small pieces. 

Bake from ten to fifteen minutes, according to size, 
and serve with glaze poured round it. 

Gurnets baked. 

Ingredients — 2 or more gurnets. 

Some veal stuffing, omitting the suet. 

A little stock. 

ij wineglass of sherry. 

K 2 



132 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

1 or 2 dessertspoonfuls of mushroom 

catsup. 
Some brown sauce. 
Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Eemove the head and fins of the gurnets, and 
stuff them with veal stuffing, fastening it in with small 
skewers. 

Lay them on a well-buttered baking-tin, and pour over 
them the stock, sherry, and catsup. 

Bake them in a moderate oven until cooked. 
Then place them on a hot dish, mix the liquor from 
them with the sauce and pour over. 

Stewed Eels. 

Ingredients — 2 lb. of eels. 

1 pint of stock. 

1 wineglass of port. 

1 tablespoonful of flour. 

A few drops of lemon juice. 

Pepper. 

Salt. 

Cayenne. 

2 oz. of butter. 

Method. — Cut the eels in pieces about 2t> inches long. 
Fry them brown in the butter. 
Then put them in a stewpan with the stock. 
Stew gently, until tender. 

Then remove them from the stock, and put them on a 
hot dish. 

Thicken the stock with the flour. 

Add the wine, lemon juice, and seasoning. 

Pour over the eels, and serve very hot. 



133 



PASTRY. 

Few people are successful in making pastry. Yet, with 
a little practice, there is no reason why any one should not 
make it with some degree of perfection, if the following 
rules are carefully attended to. 

Make the pastry in a cool place, not in a hot kitchen. 
The board, rolling-pin, and hands should be as cold as 
possible. Handle it very lightly. The colder pastry is 
kept during making, the lighter it will be, because it will 
contain more air ; cold air occupies a much less space than 
warm. The colder the air, the greater, consequently, will 
be its expansion when the pastry is put into a very hot 
oven. Koll the paste lightly, and not more than necessary. 
Puff paste is a kind of fine sandwich. There should be a 
certain number of layers of dough and layers of butter. 
Take care, therefore, that the butter is not allowed to break 
through the dough ; and be very careful to folloio the 
directions given for making this pastry. Its manufacture 
requires patience, because, if it is not properly cooled 
between the turns, the friction of rolling will warm the 
butter, and cause it to smear into the dough. For short 
crust, rub the butter or fat lightly into the flour with the 
tips of the fingers ; and do not use more water than neces- 
sary in mixing it. This is a common mistake ; and too 
much water deprives the paste of its shortness. Short 
paste is the best for children and persons of weak diges- 
tion ; the flour in it being more thoroughly incorporated 
with the fat, gets better cooked. It is, therefore, capable 



134 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

of more perfect mastication than puff or flaky crust, both 
of which are liable to be swallowed in flakes. 

However well pastry is made, success will not be 
attained unless the oven is rightly heated. The very 
lightest crusts will often be totally spoiled in the baking 
because this important point is not attended to. If the 
oven is not very hot, the fat will melt and run out of the 
pastry before the starch grains in the flour burst ; conse- 
quently, they cannot afterwards expand, however hot the 
oven may be made ; and in this way the paste will become 
heavy. Take great care, therefore, that the oven is very 
hot when the paste is put into it. 

Watch the paste carefully that it does not take too dark 
a colour. When it is well thrown up and nearly cooked, it 
may be removed to a more moderately heated part of the 
oven if it should appear to be browning too quickly. 

Ovens in which the heat comes from the bottom are 
decidedly the best for either cakes or pastry ; but no one 
should expect to bake well in an oven they do not thoroughly 
understand. There is so much difference in ovens, that 
the hottest part of one may be the coolest in another. To 
bake well requires practice and experience, and no one 
should be discouraged by a few failures. 

Puff Paste. 

Ingredients — Equal quantities of Vienna flour and 
butter. 
A few drops of lemon juice. 
Enough water to mix the flour into a nice 
lithe dough. 
Method. — Bub the flour through a wire sieve. 
Make a well in the middle, and squeeze in a few drops 
of lemon juice. 

Mix very gradually with very cold water, taking care 
that the dough is not too stiff. 

Then knead and work well about until quite smooth. 



PASTRY. 135 

Set it aside for a few minutes to get quite cold. 

Squeeze the butter in a cloth to press out the water. 

Roll out the dough, and place the butter, flattened to a 
third of its size, in the middle. 

Then fold the dough from either side over it, pressing 
the edges together. 

Turn it with its edges toward you, and roll out very 
gently (care must be taken that the butter does not break 
through the dough). 

Fold it again in three, and put it aside to cool for quite 
a quarter of an hour. The colder it is kept the better. 

Then turn its edges towards you, and roll it out again ; 
fold evenly in three, and roll and fold again in the same 
manner ; each roll and fold is called a turn. 

Cool the paste for another quarter of an hour. 

Then give it two more turns. 

Let it cool again ; and at the seventh roll it will pro- 
bably be ready for use. 

It is, however, wise to bake a small piece of the paste 
before using the whole quantity. If the maker has a very 
light hand it sometimes happens that eight or even nine 
turns may be necessary to roll the butter sufficiently into 
the flour. 

Patty Cases. 

Roll the puff paste, when ready, to rather more than a 
quarter of an inch in thickness. 

Take a fluted cutter about the size of a tumbler. 

Dip it in very hot water, and cut the paste into rounds 
with it. 

Mark the middle of these rounds with a cutter about 
three sizes smaller. 

Roll out the remains of the paste to half the thickness 
of the patties. 

Stamp out some rounds for covers with a fluted cutter 
two sizes smaller than that used for the cases. 



136 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Put the cases and covers on a baking- tin, and bake in a 
quick oven for ten or fifteen minutes. 

When cooked, lift the lid and scrape out the soft inside 
carefully. 

Good Short Crust. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of flour. 
| lb. of butter. 

Enough cold water to mix rather stiffly. 
A. pinch of salt. 
Method. — Eub the butter into the flour until like fine 
bread-crumbs. 

Mix with cold water, using as little as possible (if too 
much is used the crust will not be short). 
Eoll gently to make the paste bind. 
If this paste is used for tarts, add one dessertspoonful 
of castor sugar to the flour. 

Plainer Short Crust. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of flour. 

^ lb. of butter. 

i lb. of lard. 

1 teaspoonful of baking powder. 

Water enough to bind. 
Method. — Make according to directions given in pre- 
ceding recipe. 

Economical Short Crust. 

Ingredients— 1 lb. of flour. 

\ lb. of clarified dripping or lard. 
1 teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Enough water to mix. 
To make this crust still plainer, a quarter of a pound 
only of clarified dripping or lard may be taken, and three 
good teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 



PASTKY. 137 

Method. — Make according to the directions for Short 
Crust. 

Flaky Crust. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of flour. 

, \ lb. of butter or dripping. 

A pinch of salt. 

Enough cold water to mix the paste. 
Method. — Rub one half of the butter into the flour, as 
for short crust. 

Mix with the water, and roll it out very thinly. 
Put the remainder in little pieces on the paste. 
Fold in three, and then in three again. 
Roll out to the size required. 

Rough Puff Paste. 

Ingredients- — 1 lb. of flour. 

^ lb. of butter, lard, or dripping. 

Salt. 

Cold water. 
Method. — Break the fat into the flour in pieces. 
Add a pinch of salt. 
Mix with a little cold water. 
Turn on to a board. 
Roll and fold four times. 

Flaky Bread Crust. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of bread dough. 

Some butter, lard, or dripping. 
Method. — Roll out the dough very thin, and spread 
with the fat. 
Fold in two. 
Spread again with fat. 

Fold in two, and spread once more with fat. 
Fold again, and set aside for one hour. 
Then roll out and use. 



138 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Beef-steak Pie. 

Ingredients — 2 lb. of nice beef-steak. 
J lb. of bullock's kidney. 
1 lb. of flaky or rough puff paste. 
1 tablespoonful of flour. 
\ pint of water. 
Pepper and salt. 

Method. — Eoll the paste to a quarter of an inch in 
thickness. 

Invert the pie-dish, and cut the paste to the size and 
shape of the under side of it. 

Eoll out the remainder, and cut a band one inch 
wide. 

Wet the edge of the pie-dish, and place this round it. 

Cut the beef into thin strips. 

Dip them in flour, and season with pepper and salt. 

Eoll each of the strips round a tiny piece of fat. 

Put them into the pie-dish alternately with pieces of 
kidney. 

Eaise them in the middle of the dish in a dome -like 
form, and pour in the water. 

Wet the edges of the paste lining of the dish, and lay 
the cover over. 

Press the edges lightly together, and trim round with a 
knife. 

Make a hole in the middle of the paste to let the gases 
from the meat escape. 

Brush the crust with beaten egg, and decorate with 
leaves cut from the trimmings. 

Bake for about two hours. 

The pie should be put into a quick oven until the pastry 
is cooked ; the heat must then be moderated to cook the 
meat thoroughly without drying up the pastry. If possible, 
finish cooking the meat on the top of the oven. 

Some people prefer stewing the meat before using it in 



PASTRY. 139 

the pie. If this is done, it must be allowed to get cold 
before the pie is made. 

It is an improvement to the pie to put layers of oysters, 
bearded, alternately with the rolls of beef. 

Rabbit Pie. 

Ingredients — 1 rabbit. 

J lb. of salt pork. 

1 lb. of rough puff or flaky paste. 
\ pint of water. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 
Pepper and salt. 

Method. — Prepare the paste as for beef-steak pie, lining 
the dish in the same manner. 

Cut the rabbit into neat joints. 

Season them with pepper and salt. 

Put them in the pie-dish alternately with the pork. 

Pour in the water, and cover with the paste. 

Brush over with beaten egg, and decorate with paste 
leaves. 

Make a hole in the middle of the crust for the gases to 
escape. 

Bake for about an hour, attending to directions given 
for baking beef- steak pie. 

Mince Pies. 

Ingredients — Puff and other pastry. 
Mincemeat. 
Castor sugar. 
White of 1 egg. 

The Mincemeat. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of suet. 
1 lb. of apples. 
1 lb. of sugar. 



140 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

1 lb. of currants. 

1 lb. of raisins. 

1 lb. of candied peel. 

The grated rind of 3 lemons. 

\ lb. of ratafias soaked in brandy. 
Method. — Chop the suet. 
Wash and dry the currants. 
Stone and cut the raisins in halves. 
Peel, core, and mince the apples. 
Chop the candied peel. 
Mix all the ingredients well together. 
Put them into a stone jar ; cover closely and keep for a 
month. 

To Make the Pies. 

Eoll the paste out, and stamp it into rather large rounds 
with a fluted cutter dipped in hot water. 

Lay half the rounds on patty pans. 

Wet the edges of the pastry, and put some mincemeat 
into the middle of each round. 

Cover with the remaining rounds, pressing the edges 
lightly together. 

To glaze, brush them with a little white of egg, and 
dust with castor sugar. 

Bake in a quick oven for ten or fifteen minutes. 

Mushroom Pie. 

Ingredients — Puff, flaky, or short crust. 

Mushrooms. 

Boiled potatoes. 

Butter. 

Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Eoll out the paste, and prepare a pie-dish as 
for beef- steak pie. 

Mash the potatoes with butter, pepper, and salt. 

Peel the mushrooms, and cut off the ends of the stalks, 



PASTRY. 141 

Put the potatoes and mushrooms in alternate layers 
in the pie -dish. 

Cover with the paste, and finish off and decorate like a 
beef- steak pie. 

Bake in a quick oven for about three quarters of an 
hour. 

Pigeon Pie. 

Ingredients — 4 pigeons. 

1 lb. of rump -steak. 
Yolks of 6 hard-boiled eggs. 
Pepper and salt. 

Some puff or other paste made with 1 lb. 
of flour. 
Method. — Prepare the pie-dish, and roll out the paste 
as for beef-steak pie. 

Draw the pigeons, and cut them in halves. 
Cut the steak into thin strips, the way of the grain. 
Season the steak and pigeons nicely, and put them into 
the pie-dish with the hard-boiled yolks. 
Pour in the water. 

Cover with the paste, and finish like a beef-steak pie. 
Wash and clean the legs of two of the pigeons, and 
stick them in the hole in the top of the pie. 
Bake for about an hour and a half. 

Veal-and-Ham Pie. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of veal cutlet. 
t> lb. of ham. 
4 hard-boiled eggs. 
1 dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. 
1 lemon. 
Pepper and salt. 

Some puff, flaky, or other pastry, made 
with 1 lb. of flour. 
Method. — Koll out the paste, and prepare the dish as 
for beef- steak pie. 



142 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Cut the veal and ham into neat pieces. 
Season them well, and sprinkle them with the parsley 
and lemon juice. 

Put them into the pie-dish with the eggs cut in halves. 
Pour in the water. 

Cover with paste, and decorate like a beef-steak pie. 
Bake for about two hours. 

Cornish Pasties. 

Ingredients — Some plain short crust. 

Equal quantities of beef-steak or beef- 
skirt and potatoes. 
1 onion, finely chopped. 
Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Cut the meat and potatoes into small dice, 
and mix them with the onion, pepper, and salt. 
Roll out the pastry. 

Stamp it into rather large rounds with the lid of a 
small saucepan. 

Wet round the edges of the paste, and place a small 
heap of meat and potatoes in the middle of each round. 
Double the paste, bringing the edges to the top. 
Goffer round them with the fingers to form a frill. 
Place the pasties on a greased baking-sheet, and bake 
in a quick oven from half an hour to an hour. 

Sausage Rolls. 

Ingredients — Some puff or flaky crust. 
Sausages. 

1 egg- 
Method. — Parboil the sausages. 
Skin them, cut them in halves, and let them cool. 
Eoll out the paste ; cut it into squares. 
Brush the edges with beaten egg. 
Lay a half sausage on each piece of paste, and roll the 
paste round it, pressing the edges together. 



PASTKY. 143 

Brush the rolls with beaten egg. 

Lay them on a greased baking- sheet. 

Bake in a quick oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. 



Apple Tart. 

Ingredients — 2 lb. of apples. 

3 oz. of moist sugar. 

Some pastry. 

5 cloves or the grated rind of a small 

lemon. 
J pint of water. 

Method. — Make some pastry according to directions 
given for short crust (the quantity made from f lb. of flour 
will be sufficient). 

Eoll out the paste in an oval shape to a quarter of an 
inch in thickness. 

Invert a pint pie-dish, lay the paste over it, and cut it 
the size and shape of the under side of the dish. 

Boll out the remaining pieces, and cut in strips about 
one inch wide. 

Wet the edges of the pie -dish, and lay them evenly 
round it. 

Peel, core, and quarter the apples. 

Put them into the pie-dish, mixing them with the 
sugar. 

Pile them up well in the middle of the dish, pressing 
them to an oval shape with the hands. 

Pour in the water, and sprinkle over the lemon rind or 
cloves. 

Wet the edges of the pastry, lining the dish, and put 
over the piece reserved for the cover. 

Press the edges lightly together, and trim with a 
knife. 

Make a small hole with a skewer on either side of the 
cover to let the steam escape. 



144 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

To glaze, brush over with the white of an egg, and 
dust with castor sugar. 

Bake from half to three-quarters of an hour. The 
oven should be very quick at first, and moderate after- 
wards. 

Any Fruit Tart may be made by this recipe. Sugar must be 
added according to the acidity of the fruit used. 

Genoise Pastry. 

Ingredients — 6 oz. of flour. 

6 oz. of butter. 

8 oz. of castor sugar. 

7 eggs. 

Method. — Melt the butter in a stewpan, and brush over 
a saute pan or shallow cake tin with it. 

Line the pan with paper, and brush that also with the 
melted butter. 

Break the eggs into a basin. 

Add to them the sugar, and beat with a whisk for about 
twenty minutes until they rise. 

The basin containing them may be placed on a saucepan 
of hot water ; but care must be taken that the heat is not 
too great, as that would cook the eggs. 

When the eggs are sufficiently beaten, stir in the flour 
and butter very lightly. 

If beaten in, the pastry will not be light. 

Pour the mixture into the pan, and bake for about an 
hour. 

Genoise Sandwiches. 

Ingredients — Genoise pastry. 

Jam. 
Method. — Cut the Genoise pastry into slices. 
Spread them with jam. 

Lay the slices one on the other, and cut in triangular 
shapes. 



PASTRY. 145 



Genoise Iced-cakes. 

Ingredients— Genoise pastry. 

Jam. 

Grated cocoa-nut. 

Iceing. 
Method. — Stamp out small cakes of Genoise pastry 
with a round cutter. 

Spread the sides thinly with jam. 
Koll the cakes in the cocoa-nut. 

Ice round the top of the cakes, and put some jam in the 
middle of the iceing. 



Genoise Preserve-cakes. 

Ingredients — Uncooked Genoise pastry. 
Some preserve. 

Some syrup of sugar and water. 
Hundreds and thousands. 
Chopped pistachio kernels. 
Grated cocoa-nut. 
Method. — Partly fill small well-buttered dariol moulds 
with the Genoise mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. 

When done, and sufficiently cool, cut a small circular 
piece from the bottom of the cakes. 

Scoop out some of the inside, and fill them with the 
preserve. 

Eeplace the small circular piece. 

Brush the cakes over with the syrup, and roll them in 
the hundreds and thousands, chopped pistachio, and cocoa- 
nut. 

They should be entirely covered with the decorations. 
Pile them prettily on a dish, and decorate them with 
holly leaves. 



146 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Almond Cakes. 

Ingredients — Genoise pastry. 
Almonds. 
The white of 1 egg. 

1 oz. of castor sugar. 

Method. — Stamp out the Genoise pastry into small 
cakes, with round cutters. 

Beat the white of egg, mix it with the castor sugar, 
and spread it over the cakes. 

Sprinkle them well with almonds, blanched and 
chopped. 

Put them in a moderate oven to take a pale fawn colour. 

Cheese Cakes. 

Ingredients — Some remains of puff pastry. 

2 oz. of sugar. 
2 oz. of butter. 
1 lemon. 

Half a sponge cake 

1 whole egg and 1 yolk. 
Method. — Cream the butter in a basin. 
Add to it the castor sugar. 
Beat well together, adding one by one the yolks of the 



Then mix in the grated lemon peel, and the lemon 
juice and the sponge cake, rubbed through a wire sieve. 

Lastly, stir in lightly half the white of the egg, beaten 
to a stiff froth. 

Pioll out the pastry. 

Stamp into rounds with a fluted cutter dipped in hot 
water. 

Lay the rounds in patty-pans, and put a little dummy 

lough or bread in the middle of each. 

Bake them in a quick oven. 



PASTKY. 147 

When nearly cooked, remove the dummies and fill their 
places with the cheese-cake mixture. 

Keturn them to the oven until the pastry is cooked and 
the cheese-cake mixture has taken a pale colour. 



Tartlets. 

Ingredients — The remains of puff paste. 
Some preserve. 

Method. — Eoll out the paste, and stamp into rounds 
with a fluted cutter dipped in hot water. 

Lay the rounds on patty pans. 

Place in the middle of each a dummy, made of dough 
or bread. 

Bake in a quick oven. 

When the pastry is cooked remove the dummies, and 
fill the places with jam. 

Plainer tartlets may be made with short, flaky, or 
other pastry. 

Cheese d'Artois. 

Ingredients — Kemains of puff paste, or some flaky 
crust. 
1 oz. of butter. 

1 whole egg and 1 yolk. 

2 oz. of Parmesan cheese. 
A little cayenne. 
Pepper and salt. 

Method. — Cream the butter well in a basin. 

Beat in the eggs, and add the grated cheese. 

Season with pepper, salt, and cayenne. 

Divide the pastry into two portions, and roll them out 
as thinly as possible. 

Lay one piece on a greased baking- sheet. 

Spread it over with the cheese mixture, and lay the 
other on the top. 

L 2 



148 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Mark it with the back of a knife in strips, one inch 
wide and three inches long. 

Brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a quick oven, 
until the paste is cooked. Cut out the strips with a sharp 
knife. 

Dish them on a folded napkin, and sprinkle them with 
grated cheese. 

Cheese Straws. 

Ingredients — 2 oz. of flour. 
2 oz. of butter. 

2 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese. 
The yolk of an egg. 
A little cayenne. 
Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Eub the butter lightly into the flour. 
Add the grated cheese and seasoning, and mix with the 
yolk of egg. 

If necessary, add another yolk, but no water. 
Eoll out and cut into fingers about a quarter of an inch 
wide and two inches long. 

Lay them on a greased baking-sheet. 
Stamp out with a cutter, the size of an egg-cup, some 
rounds, and make them into rings by stamping out the 
middles with a smaller cutter. 

Bake the rings and straws a pale fawn colour, and serve 
them with a bundle of straws placed in each ring. 

Gooseberry Turnovers. 

Ingredients — Some gooseberries. 
Sugar. 
Short crust. 
Method. — Pick off the heads and tails of the goose- 
berries. 

Koll out the paste and cut into rather large rounds. 
Wet the edges and put some gooseberries in the middle 
of each round, with a teaspoonful of sugar. 



PASTRY. 149 

Fold the paste over and press the edges together. 
Decorate the edges with a fork or spoon. 
Put the turnovers on a greased baking- sheet, and bake 
in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. 

Petit Choux. 

Ingredients— 5 oz. of flour. 

2 oz. of butter. 

3 oz. of castor sugar. 
3 whole eggs. 

\ pint of water. 

Method. — Bub the flour through a sieve. 

Put the butter and water on to boil. 

When boiling, stir in the flour and sugar. 

Beat well over the fire, until the mixture leaves the 
sides of the saucepan, then remove the saucepan from the 
fire and beat in three eggs. 

Shape like eggs, with two dessertspoons and a knife 
dipped in hot water. 

Lay the pastry on a greased baking-sheet, and bake in 
a moderate oven for one hour. 

To serve, open the cakes at the side and insert a little 
whipped cream or preserve. 

Decorate by brushing them over with white of egg, or 
a syrup of sugar and water, and sprinkle with chopped 
pistachio kernels, grated cocoa-nut, or hundreds and 
thousands. 

Apple Turnovers. 

Make like gooseberry turnovers, substituting minced 
apple for gooseberries. 

Apple Dumplings. 

Ingredients — 1 dozen apples. 

1 lb. of short crust. 
A little moist sugar. 



150 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Method. — Pare the apples and remove the cores ; fill the 
holes with sugar. 

Take pieces of paste large enough to cover the apples. 
Do not roll them, but draw the paste over the apples. 

Wet the edges to make them join. 

Place the dumplings on a greased tin and bake for about 
three-quarters of an hour or one hour. The length of time 
will depend on the kind of apples used. 



151 



PUDDINGS. 

A pudding which is to be boiled should be placed in a 
well-greased basin, or mould, which it should quite fill. 
A scalded and floured cloth should be tied securely over it. 
Some puddings, such as suet, plum, &c, may be cooked 
without the basin, the mixture being firmly tied in a well- 
scalded and floured cloth, a little room being allowed for 
the pudding to swell. When cooked in this way, it is well 
to put a plate in the saucepan to prevent the pudding 
sticking to the bottom and burning. 

To cook a boiled pudding successfully, the water should 
be kept briskly boiling during the whole of the time it is 
cooking, and there should be sufficient water in the sauce- 
pan to well cover it. A kettle of boiling water should be 
at hand to fill up the saucepan as required. In steaming 
puddings, unless a steamer is used, the water should not 
be allowed to come more than halfway up the pudding- 
mould, and must only gently simmer, until the pudding is 
cooked. The mould used need not be covered with a cloth, 
but a piece of greased paper should t be placed over it to 
prevent the condensed steam dropping on the pudding. 
Some puddings require to be steamed very carefully, such 
as contain custard, for example. A custard pudding will 
be honeycombed (i.e. full of holes), if the water is allowed 
to boil ; the heat of boiling will curdle the eggs. 

Most baked puddings require a moderate oven, particu- 
larly such as rice, tapioca, &c. 

In preparing suet for puddings, remove the skin, slice 
the suet, and then chop it finely, using a little flour to 



152 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

prevent it sticking to the knife. Currants must be well 
washed and dried. Sultanas should be rubbed in flour, 
and the stalks picked off. 



Beef-steak Pudding. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of flour. 

| or ^ lb. of suet. 

lj^ lb. of beef or rump steak. 

^ lb. of bullock's kidney. 

Seasoning. 

Method.— Chop the suet finely, mix well with the flour, 
adding a pinch of salt. 
. Mix to a paste with cold water. 

Eoll it out, and line a greased quart-basin, reserving 
one-third for the cover. 

Cut the steak into thin strips, and the kidney into 
slices. 

Mix some pepper and salt on a plate, and season the 
meat nicely. 

Eoll each piece of meat round a tiny piece of the 
fat, and place the rolls and the pieces of kidney in the 
basin. 

Pour in rather more than a quarter of a pint of water. 

Eoll out the remaining piece of paste. 

Wet the edges of that in the basin, lay the cover on, 
and trim round neatly. 

Tie over a well-scalded and floured cloth, and boil for 
four hours. 

Oysters are sometimes put in these puddings ; they 
should be bearded, and the hard white part removed. 

A rabbit or veal pudding may be made in the same 
manner. To these add a quarter of a pound of lean ham 
or bacon. 

Where economy must be studied, less suet may be used 
in making the crust. 



PUDDINGS. 153 

Suet Pudding. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of flour. 

4, 6, or 8 oz. of finely-chopped suet. 
A pinch of salt, or, if liked, a teaspoon - 
ful of baking powder. 
Method. — Mix the flour and suet lightly together. 
Add the salt. 

Mix to a stiff paste with cold water. 
Then boil in a well-scalded and floured cloth for three 
hours. 

Sultana Pudding. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of flour. 

\ lb. of finely-chopped suet. 

£ lb. of sultanas. 

\ lb. of castor sugar ; or, three ounces of 

moist sugar. 
2 oz. of candied peel. 
The grated rind of a lemon. 
A pinch of salt. 

1 egg> 

A little milk. 
Method. — Eub the sultanas in flour and pick off the 
stalks. 

Cut the candied peel in small pieces. 
Put all the dry ingredients into a basin, and mix with 
the egg, well beaten, and a little milk. 
Boil in a basin or cloth three hours. 

Compote of Rice. 

Ingredients — J lb. of rice. 

J lb. of sugar. 

1 pint or more of milk. 

Vanilla or other flavouring. 
Method. — Boil the rice in the milk, with the sugar, for 



154 



THE SKILFUL COOK. 



twenty minutes ; if very stiff, add a little more milk or 
||^ cream. 

• Flavour with vanilla, and put into a buttered mould 
Mfrith a well in the centre. 

wi 




Any fruit 
If orange 

of lump su 
Peel th ' 
If appl 

nth J lb. 



t in the middle, when it is served, 
'boil IJi gill of water with £ lb. 
ticjss to a^knife like an icicle. 
1. them inm. 

entl j;m one pint of water, 



Lineal, 
"apples out, and reduce the syrup to less than 
a quarter-. of a pint. 
Roll the apples in it. 

Queen Victoria Pudding. 

** > v .,*. l&greclients — \ lb. of butter. 

i lb. of castor sugar. 

£ lb. of flour. 

2 oz. of chopped peel. 

1 oz. of blanched and chopped almonds. 

2 tablespoonfuls of brandy. 

3 eggs. 

Method. — Put the butter and sugar in a basin. 

Cream them well together with a wooden spoon. 

Add the yolks of the eggs one by one ; then the flour, 
peel, almonds, and brandy. 

Beat the whites of the eggs stiffly, and mix them in 
lightly. 

Put the mixture in a well-buttered mould. 

Cover with buttered paper, and steam for three hours. 

Rice Bars. 

Ingredients — J lb. of rice. 

1 pint of milk. 

3 oz. of castor sugar. 



PUDDINGS. 155 

Yolks of 2 eggs. 

A little lemon essence. 

1 whole egg. 
Some bread-crumbs. 
Some reel jam. 

Method. — Boil the rice in the milk, with the sugar* 
for half an hour, gently stirring occasionally. 

Then remove from the fire and, when cool, beat in the 
two yolks, and add the lemon essence. 

Then spread on a flat dish to cool. 

When quite cold, cut into bars. 

Brush over with the beaten egg, and cover with bread- 
crumbs. 

Fry in hot fat until lightly coloured. 

There should be an equal number of bars. 

Spread one half of them with jam, and lay the others 
on the top. 

Rice Cakes. 

Put the rice mixtures when hot into well-greased tartlet 
tins. 

Make a small hole in the middle and put in a little jam. 

Cover with some more of the rice mixture and let them 
get cold. 

Then egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in hot fat. 

Orange Pudding. 

Ingredients — The rind and juice of 2 oranges. 

2 oz. of cake-crumbs rubbed through a 
sieve. 

2 oz. of castor sugar. 

3 eggs. 

1 gill of milk or cream. 
Method. — Put the crumbs in a basin, with the sugar. 
Add the grated rind of one orange, and the juice of 
the two. 



156 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Beat in the yolks of the three eggs, and add the milk 
or cream. 

Whip the white of one egg to a stiff froth, stir in 
lightly. 

Line a pie-dish with a little good pastry ; pour the mix- 
ture in. 

Bake until set, and of a light brown colour. 

Welcome-Guest Pudding. 

Ingredients — £ lb. of suet. 
I lb. of sugar. 
J lb. of cake-crumbs, or ratafias, rubbed 

through a sieve. 
^ lb. of bread-crumbs. 
The rind and juice of one lemon. 

3 eggs, well beaten. 

Method. — Put all the dry ingredients into a basin. 
Add the lemon rind and juice, and mix with the eggs. 
Put into a well-greased mould. 
Cover with buttered paper, and steam for two hours. 

Crfeme Frite. 

Ingredients — 1 whole egg. 
1 white. 

4 yolks. 

1 gill of cream. 

1 gill of milk. 

1 tablespoonful of castor sugar. 

Flavouring to taste. 

3 oz. of cake-crumbs. 
Method. — Cream the yolks and white well together with 
the castor sugar. 

Add cream, milk, and flavouring. 

Strain this custard into a greased pudding-basin, and 
steam very gently, until firm. 

Let it get quite cold ; then turn it out. 



PUDDINGS. 157 

Cut into slices about one-third of an inch thick. 

Stamp into round or fancy shapes. 

Egg and cake-crurnb them. 

Fry in a frying-basket in hot fat. 

Serve on a glass dish, and sprinkle with castor sugar. 

Gateau de Cerise. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of cooking cherries. 
\ lb. of lump sugar. 
J pint of water. 
A few drops of cochineal. 
| of an ounce-packet of gelatine. 
The juice of one lemon. 
Method. — Boil the sugar and water; add the lemon 
and skim well. 

Add the cherries (stoned), and stew for a quarter of an 
hour. 

Melt the gelatine in a little water, and add it to the 
cherries, with enough cochineal to colour brightly. 
Pour the mixture into a border mould. 
When set, dip it in hot water for a second or two, and 
turn on to a glass dish. 

Serve with whipped cream in. the centre. 

Jaune Mange. 

Ingredients — J ounce packet of gelatine. 
J pint of water. 
\ pint of white wine. 
Juice of one and a half lemon. 
Rind of half a lemon. 

3 oz. of castor sugar. 

4 yolks. 

Method. — Soak the gelatine in the water with the lemon 
rind. 

Then put it in a saucepan with all the other ingredients. 



158 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Stir over the fire until the custard thickens ; but, on 
no account, let it boil. 

Then strain into a wetted mould. 



Apple Charlotte. 

Ingredients — 2 lb. of apples. 

^ lb. of moist sugar. 
Grated rind of a lemon. 
Slices of bread. 
Some clarified butter. 

Method. — Peel and core the apples, and stew them with 
the sugar, lemon rind, and a quarter pint of water, until 
reduced to half the quantity. 

Take a plain round tin, holding about a pint and a half. 

Cut a round of stale bread, about one-eighth of an inch 
thick ; dip it in clarified butter, and lay it in the bottom of 
the mould. 

Line the sides with slices of bread, cut about an inch wide, 
and one-eighth of an inch thick, and also dipped in butter. 

Pour the apple mixture into the mould. 

Cover with another round of bread dipped in butter ; 
and bake in a moderately quick oven for three quarters of 
an hour. 

For serving, turn it on to a hot dish, and sprinkle castor 
sugar over it. 

Viennoise Pudding. 

I)iriredients—5 oz. of stale crumb of bread cut into dice. 
3 oz. of sultanas. 
^ lb. of castor sugar. 
2 oz. of candied peel. 
Grated rind of a lemon. 
1 wineglass of sherry. 



J pint of milk. 

2 whole eggs. 

1 oz. of lump sugar. 



PUDDINGS. 159 

Method. — Put the 1 oz. of lump sugar into an old 
saucepan, and burn it a dark brown. 

Pour in the milk, and stir until it is well coloured and 
the sugar dissolved. 

Beat the eggs well, strain the coloured milk on to 
them, and add the sherry. 

Put all the dry ingredients into a basin, and pour the 
eggs, milk, and sherry over them. 

Let the pudding soak for half an hour. 

Then put it into a well-greased pint-mould. 

Cover with buttered paper, and steam for one hour and 
a half. 

This pudding is to be served with German sauce (see 
Sauces). 

Snow Pudding. 

Ingredients — J pint of milk. 

H oz. of bread-crumbs. 
Grated rind of a lemon. 

2 tablespoonrals of castor sugar. 

3 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of strawberry or any 

other jam. 
A little pastry. 
Method. — Put the bread-crumbs into a basin. 
Boil the milk, and pour it over them. 
Mix in the sugar, one whole egg, and two yolks well 
beaten, and add the lemon rind. 

Line a pint pie-dish with a little pastry. 
Spread the jam at the bottom and pour the mixture 
over. 

Bake in a moderate oven until set. 
Beat the remaining whites to a stiff froth, with a dessert- 
spoonful of castor sugar ; and heap it lightly on the top 
just before serving. 



160 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



German Puffs. 

Ingredients — 2 eggs. 

Their weight in castor sugar, and ground 

rice. 
The grated rind of a lemon. 
Method. — Beat the eggs well. 

Then stir in, gradually, the castor sugar and ground 
rice, and add the lemon rind. 

Partly fill well-buttered cups, or moulds, with the 
mixture ; and bake in a moderate oven for a quarter of an 
hour, or twenty minutes. 

Serve with a wine or sweet sauce [see Sauces). 



Apple Amber Pudding. 

Ingredients — 8 apples. 

2 \ oz. of butter. 
3 oz. of moist sugar. 
Kind and juice of one lemon. 
3 eggs. 

A little pastry. 
Method. — Wash the apples (they need not be peeled 
or cored) and cut them into small pieces. 

Put them into a stewpan with the butter, sugar, lemon 
rind and juice, and stew until tender. 

Then rub through a hair sieve — the sieve keeps back 
the peel and pips. 

Beat the three yolks into the mixture, and put it into a 
pint pie -dish lined with a little pastry. 
Bake in a moderate oven until set. 
Then beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth with 
a dessertspoonful of castor sugar, and heap on the top. 
Put it, again, into a cool oven, until the whites are set. 
This pudding may*be served either hot or cold. 



PUDDINGS. 161 



Apple Pudding. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of flour. 

6 or 8 oz. of suet. 
A pinch of salt. 

1 teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Some apples. 

3 tablespoonfuls or more of moist sugar. 
The grated rind of a small lemon. 

2 or 3 cloves. 

Method. — Prepare the paste, and line a basin as for 
beef- steak pudding. 

Put in the apples, which should be pared and cored, 
and sprinkle in the sugar and lemon rind. 

Put on the cover of paste, and tie over it a well-scalded 
and floured cloth. 

Boil for one hour, or longer : the length of time will 
depend on the fruit used. 

Any fresh fruit may be substituted for the apple. 



Raspberry Pudding. 

Ingredients — 1 pint of raspberries. 
3 oz. of sugar. 
Thin slices of bread. 
A little milk. 
Method. — Pick the stalks from the raspberries, and mix 
them with the sugar. 

Put them and the bread in alternate layers in a pie- 
dish, moistening the bread with a little milk. 
Bake for half an hour. 

Note. — This pudding is very good served with cream or custard. 
The bottled raspberries may be used instead of fresh fruit. 



162 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Lemon Pudding. 

Ingredients — \ lb. of bread-crumbs. 

\ lb. of finely- chopped suet. 

i lb. of castor sugar. 

The grated rind of one lemon, and the 

juice of two. 
2 eggs. 

Enough milk to mix it. 
Method. — Put the bread-crumbs and suet into a basin. 
Add sugar, grated lemon-rind, and juice. 
Mix the pudding with the two eggs, well beaten, and a 
very little milk. 

Boil it for one hour and a half. 

This pudding may be served with a wine or sweet sauce 
(see Sauces). 

Marmalade Pudding. 

Ingredients — \ lb. of flour. 

\ lb. of bread-crumbs. 
\ lb. of finely-chopped suet. 
\ lb. of moist sugar. 
\ lb. of marmalade. 
2 eggs. 

The grated rind of a lemon. 
Method. — Put the flour, bread-crumbs, suet, sugar, and 
lemon rind into a basin. 

Mix with the marmalade and two eggs, well beaten, 
and, if necessary, a little milk. 

Put it into a well-greased pudding-basin, and tie over 
it a scalded and floured cloth. 
Boil it for five hours. 

General Satisfaction. 

Ingredients — 3 sponge cakes. 

2 tablespoonfuls of strawberry or other 
jam. 



PUDDINGS. 163 

1 wineglass of sherry. 

Bather more than J a pint of milk. 

4 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of sugar. 
A little pastry. 

Method. — Line a pie- dish with a little pastry. 

Spread the jam at the bottom, and lay on it the sponge 
cakes, cut in halves. 

Beat one whole egg and three yolks well together. 

Mix with the sugar and milk, and pour over the sponge 
cakes. 

Bake in a moderate oven until the custard is set. 

Beat the three whites stiffly, and lay on the top of the 
pudding. 

Put into a cool oven until the whites are set, and of a 
pale fawn colour. 

This pudding may be served hot or cold. 

Marlborough Pudding. 

Ingredients — 1 pint of milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

2 whole eggs and 2 yolks. 
The grated rind of a lemon. 

3 oz. of castor sugar. 
2 oz. of butter. 

Method. — Mix the flour smoothly with the milk, and 
stir over the fire until it boils and thickens. 

Add the sugar, the eggs, well beaten, the grated lemon 
rind, and the butter beaten to a cream. 

Line a pie -dish with pastry ; pour in the mixture. 

Bake in a moderate oven until set. 

Yorkshire (or Batter) Pudding. 

Ingredients — ^ lb. of flour. 

1 pint of milk. 

2 eggs. 

A pinch of salt. 

M 2 



164 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Method. — Put the flour into a basin, make a hole in 
the middle, and put in the eggs unbeaten. 

Stir smoothly round with a wooden spoon, adding the 
milk very gradually. 

If it is to be served with meat, bake it in a baking-tin, 
which should be well greased with quite one ounce of 
butter or clarified dripping. 

Curate's Puddings. 

Ingredients — The weight of 3 eggs in each sugar, flour, 
and butter. 
4 eggs. 

A little flavouring essence of any kind, or 
the grated rind of a lemon. 
Method. — Bub the butter well into the flour. 
Add the sugar and the four eggs, well beaten. 
Half fill well- buttered cups or moulds, and bake for 
twenty minutes or half an hour. 

Serve with a wine or sweet sauce (see Sauces). 

Canary Pudding. 

Ingredients — 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 
2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

1 pint of milk. 

2 eggs. 

Method. — Put the milk and sugar on to boil. 
Mix the flour with a little cold milk. 
When the milk boils pour in the flour, and stir it 
briskly until it thickens. 

When cool, add the two eggs, well beaten. 
Bake in a greased pie-dish for half an hour. 

Christmas Pudding. 



Ingredients — 2 lb. of raisins. 
1 lb. of suet. 



PUDDINGS. 165 

\ lb. of candied peel. 

| lb. of flour. 

J lb. of bread-crumbs. 

£ lb. of moist sugar. 

A little mixed spice. 

Half a nutmeg grated. 

A little lemon rind grated. 

\ pint of milk. 

4 eggs. 
Method. — Put the dry ingredients into a basin, and 
mix with the eggs, well beaten, and the milk. 

Put into a well-greased basin, and boil ten hours if 
possible. 

Cabinet Pudding. 

Ingredients — A few raisins or cherries. 

1 dozen sponge finger-biscuits. 
1 oz. of castor sugar. 

1 pint of milk. 

2 whole eggs and 2 yolks. 

A little vanilla or other flavouring. 

Method. — Decorate a well-buttered pint-and-a-half 
mould with raisins or preserved cherries. 

Beat the eggs and milk well together. 

Sweeten with the sugar, and add the flavouring. 

Break the cakes into pieces. 

Put a quarter of them at the bottom of the mould. 

Pour in a little of the custard, then more pieces of 
cake and more custard, and continue in this way until the 
mould is full. 

Cover v, tli buttered paper, and steam gently for about 
an hour. 

Auntie's Pudding. 

Ingredients — \ lb. of flour. 

\ lb. of finely-chopped suet. 

\ lb. of currants, well washed and dried. 



166 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

3 oz. of sugar. 

1 egg- 

A little milk. 
Method. — Put all the dry ingredients into a basin. 
Mix with the egg, well beaten, and the milk. 
Boil in a well-greased basin for an hour and a quarter. 

Rhubarb Fool. 

Ingredients — 14 sticks of rhubarb. 

\ lb. of moist sugar (more, if necessary). 
\ pint of water. 

1 gill of milk. 

The thin rind of half a lemon. 
Method. — Cut the rhubarb in small pieces. 
Stew gently with the sugar and water until quite tender. 
Bub through a sieve. 
Add the milk, and serve cold. 

Scrap Pudding. 

Ingredients — Some scraps of bread. 
\ lb. of moist sugar. 
^ lb. of finely-chopped suet. 
The grated rind of a lemon. 

2 eggs, well beaten. 
J pint of milk. 
Some preserve. 

Method. — Dry the bread in a slow oven until it is hard. 

Pound it in a mortar, and measure 6 ounces of the 
powder ; mix it with the suet and sugar. 

Add the lemon rind ; pour over the milk, and add the 
eggs. 

Beat well for a few minutes. 

Then put the mixture in layers in a pie -dish alternately 
with the preserve. 

Let the top layer be the pudding mixture. 

Bake in a moderate oven until the mixture is set. 



PUDDINGS. 167 



Bread -and -Cheese Pudding. 

Ingredients — 6 oz. of dried and powdered bread. 
\ lb. of grated cheese. 
\ pint of milk. 
1 egg, well beaten. 
Pepper and salt. 
A little cayenne. 
Method. — Mix all the ingredients together, and bake in 
a pie -dish until the mixture is set. 

Mould of Rice. 

Ingredients — \ lb. of rice. 

1 quart of milk. 

^ lb. of moist or castor sugar. 
Method. — Boil the rice with the sugar in the milk until 
it is perfectly soft. 

Then put it into a mould. 

When cold, turn it out, and serve it with jam. 

Norfolk Dumpling. 

Ingredients — Some bread dough. 

Method. — Make the dough into small round balls. 

Drop them into fast-boiling water, and boil quickly for 
twenty minutes. 

Serve immediately, either with meat or with sweet 
sauce. 

Sago Pudding. 

Ingredients — 1 pint of milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sago. 
2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
1 egg. 

Method. — Simmer the sago in the milk until it thickens. 
Add the sugar and the egg, well beaten. 



168 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Put it into a pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven for 
half an hour. 

The egg may be omitted if preferred. 

Rice Pudding. 

Ingredients — 1 pint of milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of rice. 
2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Method. — Wash the rice and put it in a pie-dish with 
the sugar. 

Pour the milk over it and let it soak for an hour. 

Then bake in a moderate oven for one hour, or more, 
until the rice is quite cooked. 

If eggs are used the rice must be simmered in the milk 
before they are added, and then poured into the pie-dish. 

Tapioca Pudding. 

Make like a rice pudding. 

Semolina Pudding. 

Ingredients — 1 pint of milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of semolina. 

1 tablespoonful of moist sugar. 

An egg, if liked. 
Method. — Simmer the semolina in the milk, with the 
sugar, stirring until it thickens. 
Then beat in the egg. 
Put in a pie-dish, and bake for half an hour. 

Swiss Apple Pudding. 

Ingredients — J lb. of bread-crumbs. 

3 oz. of suet, finely chopped. 
J lb. of apples, finely minced. 
J lb. of sugar. 



PUDDINGS. 1 69 

The juice and grated rind of one lemon. 
1 egg well beaten. 
Method. — Mix all the ingredients well together, and 
bake in a pie -dish for one hour. 



Light Sultana Pudding. 

Ingredients — 3 eggs. 

Their weight in each — butter, flour, and 



\ lb. of sultanas. 
The grated rind of a lemon. 
Method. — Beat the butter to a cream. 
Mix in gradually the flour and sugar, alternately with 
the eggs, which should be well beaten. 

Then add the sultanas, well cleaned, and the grated 
lemon rind. 

Steam for three hours. 



Fun Pudding. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of apples. 

2 tablespoonfuls of apricot jam. 
2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

1 oz. of butter. 

2 dessertspoonfuls of arrowroot. 
1 pint of milk. 

Method. — Peel and core the apples, and slice them very 
finely. 

Lay them at the bottom of a pie-dish, and sprinkle 
some sugar over them. 

Put the butter about them in little pieces, and spread 
over the apricot jam. 

Boil the milk, with the remainder of the sugar, and then 
stir it into the arrowroot, mixed smoothly with cold milk. 

When it thickens, pour over the apricot and apples, and 
bake for half an hour. 



170 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Sweet Custard Pudding. 

Ingredients — Some apricot jam. 

3 eggs. 

1 pint of hot milk. 

3 tablespoonfuls of castor or moist sugar. 

The grated rind of a lemon. 

A little pastry. 
Method. — Line a pie-dish neatly with the pastry, and 
spread the jam at the bottom. 

Beat the eggs with the milk and sugar, and pour over 
the jam. 

Bake in a very moderate oven for about one hour. 

Jam Roly-poly Pudding. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of flour. 

4, 6, or 8 oz. of suet, finely chopped. 
Some red jam. * 

1 teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Method. — Put the flour into a basin, and add to it the 

suet and baking powder. 

Mix it with a little cold water and roll it out. 

Spread it with the jam, and roll up in the form of a 
bolster. 

Scald and flour a cloth, and sew, or tie, the pudding 
firmly in it. 

Boil for two hours. 

Treacle Roly-poly Pudding. 

Make like a jam roly-poly, using treacle instead of jam. 

Custard Pudding. 

Ingredients — 1 pint of hot milk. 
3 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. 



PUDDINGS. 171 

A little flavouring essence. 

A little pastry. 
Method. — Line a pie -dish with pastry. 
Beat the eggs in the milk, with the sugar. 
Add the flavouring essence, and strain into the pie-dish. 
Bake in a moderate oven for one hour, or until set. 

Note. — A richer custard may be made by using five yolks and one 
whole egg. 

Bread-and-Butter Pudding. 

Ingredients — Some slices of bread-and-butter. 
2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
1 pint of milk. 
A few currants, nicely washed. 

1 or 2 eggs, if liked. 

Method. — Put some thin slices of bread-and-butter in 
the bottom of a pie-dish. 

Sprinkle them with sugar and currants. 

Lay some more slices on the top, with more sugar and 
currants. 

Pour over the milk, and let it soak for half an hour. 

Then bake until set. 

If eggs are used, beat them with the milk. 

Ginger Pudding. 

Ingredients — 8 oz. of bread-crumbs. 

G oz. of suet, finely chopped. 
^ lb. of treacle. 

2 tablespoonfuls of moist sugar. 
2 teaspoonfuls of ground ginger. 
2 oz. of flour. 

1 teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Method. — Put the bread-crumbs, suet, flour, ginger, and 
baking powder into a basin. 
Mix with the treacle. 
Boil in a basin, or cloth, for two hours. 



172 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Fig Pudding. 

Ingredients — \ lb. of bread-crumbs. 

J lb. of suet, finely chopped. 
3 oz. of brown sugar. 

2 oz. of flour. 

The grated rind of a lemon. 
1 egg. 

\ lb. of figs. 
A little milk. 
Method. — Put the bread-crumbs, suet, and sugar, with 
the figs, cut small, into a basin. 

Add the flour and lemon rind, and mix with the egg, 
well beaten, and a little milk. 

Boil in a well-greased basin for two hours. 

Rice Balls. 

Ingredients — \ lb. of rice. 

1 quart of milk or water. 

3 tablespoonfuls of moist sugar. 
Method. — Wash the rice well. 

Put it with the sugar and milk, or water, into a large 
saucepan. 

Boil gently for about one hour. 

Then press into cups, and turn on to a dish. 

These may be served with jam, treacle, butter and 
sugar, or with a sweet sauce. 

Little Batter Puddings. 

Ingredients— i lb. of flour. 

\ pint of milk. 

1 egg. 

Some jam. 
Method. — Put the flour into a bowl, and make a well 
n the middle. 



PUDDINGS. 173 

Put in the egg, mix smoothly with a wooden spoon, 
adding the milk by degrees. 

Grease some little patty-pans, and half fill them with 
the batter. 

Bake in a quick oven. 

When done, dish on a folded napkin, and put a little 
jam on each. 

Ellen's Pudding. 

Ingredients — A little pastry. 

1 oz. of butter. 

2 oz. of sugar. 
\ pint of milk. 

The grated rind of a lemon. 

1 egg well beaten. 

2 oz. of cake-crumbs. 

Method. — Beat the butter to a cream in a basin. 

Mix in the sugar thoroughly. 

Add the milk gradually. 

Then add the egg and cake-crumbs, and pour the 
mixture into a pie-dish lined with a little pastry. 

It is an improvement to put some jam at the bottom 
of the dish. 

Bake for about half an hour. 

Bread-and-Fruit Pudding. 

Ingredients — Slices of stale bread. 
1 pint of raspberries. 
\ pint of currants. 
\ lb. of sugar. 
Method. — Line a cake-tin, or pie-dish, with stale bread, 
cut to fit it nicely. 

Stew the fruit with the sugar until nicely cooked. 
Pour into the mould, and cover with slices of bread. 
Cover it with a plate, with a weight on it, and let it 
stand until the next day. 



174 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Turn it out and serve plain, or with custard, whipped 
cream, or milk thickened with cornflour (see Cheap Cus- 
tard). 

Ground-Rice Pudding. 

Ingredients — 2 tablespoonfuls of ground rice. 

1 pint of milk. 

2 oz. of sugar. 

1 or 2 eggs (these may be omitted if 

liked). 
A little grated lemon rind, or flavouring 
essence. 
Method. — Boil the milk with the sugar. 
Mix the rice smoothly with a little cold milk. 
Pour it into the boiling milk, and stir until it thickens. 
Add the eggs, well beaten, and the flavouring. 
Pour into a pie-dish, and bake for about thirty minutes. 

Cold Tapioca Pudding. 

Ingredients — 5 tablespoonfuls of tapioca. 
1 quart of milk. 
4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Lemon, or some other flavouring. 
Method. — Soak the tapioca all night in cold water. 
The next day pour away the water, and put it, with the 
milk, into a large stewpan with the sugar. 
Simmer gently for one hour. 
Then pour it into a wetted basin,'br mould. 
When set, turn it out, and serve with stewed fruit, jam, 
or treacle. 

Tapioca and Apples. 

Ingredients — 1 quart of water or milk. 

4 tablespoonfuls of tapiocaV 
4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
1 lb. of apples. 
The grated rind of a lemon. 



PUDDINGS. 175 

Method. — Soak the tapioca in cold water. 

Then simmer it in the milk and water, with the sugar, 
for thirty minutes. 

Add the apples, peeled, cored, and sliced. 

Put the mixture into a pie-dish and bake for about one 
hour in a moderate oven. 

Steamed Rice Pudding. 

Ingredients — 1 oz. of whole rice. 

1 tablespoonful of sugar. 
1 egg. 

J pint of milk. 
Method. — Wash the rice well, and put it into a sauce- 
pan of cold water. 

Bring it to the boil, and then pour off the water. 
Pour in the milk, and add the sugar. 
Simmer until the rice is quite soft. 
Kemove it from the fire, and when cooled a little, stir 
in the yolk of the egg. 

Beat the white to a stiff froth, and stir it in lightly. 
Put the mixture into a well-greased pudding-mould, 
and steam for thirty minutes. 

Ratafia Pudding. 

Ingredients — 1 pint of milk. 

3 eggs. 

4 sponge cakes. 
J- lb. of ratafias. 

Method. — Boil the milk, and when it has cooled a little 
add to it the three eggs, well beaten. 

Break the sponge cakes and ratifias in pieces, and pour 
the custard over them. 

Decorate a greased mould with raisins, and pour the 
mixture into the mould. 

Cover with greased paper, and steam for two hours. 

Serve with sweet or wine sauce. 



176 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Macaroni Pudding. 

Ingredients — \ lb. of macaroni, 
i lb. of sugar. 
1 or 2 eggs. 

1 quart of milk. 

Method. — Break the macaroni into pieces and put them 
into a saucepan of boiling water. 

Boil for twenty minutes, and then strain off the water. 

Pour in the milk ; add the sugar, and simmer gently for 
ten minutes. 

Beat up the eggs and stir them in. 

Put the mixture into a buttered pie-dish and bake for 
about thirty minutes. 

Eastern Pudding. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of figs (cut in small dice), 
i lb. of suet. 
\ lb. of bread-crumbs. 

2 eggs. 

The grated rind of a lemon. 
1 wineglass of brandy. 

3 oz. of sugar. 

Method. — Put the figs, suet, bread-crumbs, and grated 
lemon rind into a basin. 

Mix it with the eggs, well beaten, and the brandy, 
adding a little milk if necessary. 

Boil in a greased basin for two hours. 

Ground-Barley Pudding. 

Ingredients — 1 tablespoonful of ground barley. 
J pint of milk. 
1 tablespoonful of moist sugar. 

1 egg- 
Method. — Mix the barley smoothly with the milk. 



PUDDINGS. 177 

Put it into a saucepan with the sugar, and bring to the 
boil, stirring all the time. 

Then let it simmer for fifteen minutes. 

Eemove from the fire, and beat in the yolk of the egg. 

Whip the white up stiffly, and stir in lightly. 

Pour the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, and bake for 
fifteen minutes. 

Steamed Semolina Pudding. 

Ingredients — 3 oz. of semolina. 

1 pint of milk. 

2 eggs. 

2 oz. of moist sugar. 
A little flavouring essence. 
Method. — Boil the semolina in the milk, with the sugar, 
until quite soft. 

Then add the flavouring essence and the yolks of the 
two eggs. 

Beat the whites up stiffly and mix them in lightly. 
Pour the mixture into a greased pudding-mould, and 
steam for one hour. 



Albert Puddings. 

Ingredients — 4 oz. of flour. 

4 oz. of butter. 

4 oz. of castor sugar. 

2 eggs. 

A few drops of vanilla flavouring. 
Method. — Work the butter to a cream in a basin, and 
beat in the flour, sugar, and eggs smoothly. 
Add the flavouring essence. 

Put the mixture into well-greased cups and bake for 
about half an hour. 

Serve with sweet sauce. 



178 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Pearl-Barley Pudding. 

Ingredients — 1 oz. of pearl barley. 

1 pint of milk. 

2 oz. of moist sugar. 

Method. — Put the barley to soak in cold water all night. 

Then pour away the water and put the barley into a 
pie -dish. 

Add the sugar and milk ; and bake in a moderate oven 
for three hours. 

Baked Lemon Pudding. 

Ingredients — 1 pint of milk. 

8 oz. of bread-crumbs. 
1 egg. 

3 oz. of moist sugar. 

The juice of a lemon and half the rind, 
grated. 
Method.- — Put the crumbs into a basin. 
Boil the milk with the butter and sugar, and pour it 
over the crumbs. 

Stir in the egg, well beaten ; add the lemon rind and 
juice. 

Pour it into a greased pie-dish, and bake in a moderate 
oven until set. 

West-of-England Pudding. 

Ingredients — 3 tablespoonfuls of sago. 

6 small apples. 

1 quart of milk. 

3 oz. of moist sugar. 
Method. — Soak the sago in cold water for an hour. 
Then simmer it in the milk, with the sugar, for twenty 
minutes. 

Peel and core the apples. 



PUDDINGS. 179 

Place them in a buttered pie-dish, and pour the sago 
over them. 

Bake in a moderate oven for about one hour. 

Pancakes. 

Ingredients — \ lb. of flour. 
2 eggs. 

1 pint of milk. 

Some lard, or dripping, for frying. 

Method. — Put the flour into a basin, add to it a pinch 
of salt. 

Make a well in the middle and put the two eggs into 
it ; mix them smoothly with the flour ; and add the milk 
very gradually. 

Melt the lard, or dripping. 

Well season a small frying-pan, about the size of a 
cheese plate. 

Put into it a teaspoonful of the melted fat, and let it 
run well over the pan. 

Then pour in enough batter to cover the pan thinly, 
and fry it brown, shaking the pan occasionally to keep it 
from burning. 

Then toss it on to the other side ; and, when that is 
fried, turn it on to kitchen paper. 

Sprinkle with sugar and lemon juice and roll it up. 

Keep it hot while the remainder of the batter is fried in 
the same way. 

If the maker cannot toss the pancakes well, they may 
be turned with a broad-bladed knife. If they are fried in a 
larger pan, more fat must be used. 

Railway Pudding. 

Ingredients— \ lb. of flour. 

2 oz. of castor sugar. 
2 eggs. 

n 2 



180 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

^ pint of milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Method. — Mix the flour, sugar, and baking powder in 
a basin. 

Beat the eggs well with the milk, and mix the pudding 
with them. 

Pour into a well-greased Yorkshire-pudding tin ; and 
bake for about thirty minutes. 

When done, turn out and cut into squares. 

Dish in a circle, with a little jam, or treacle, on each. 

Poor Knight's Pudding. 

Ingredients — Some small square slices of stale bread. 

Castor sugar. 
Method.— -Fry the bread in hot fat (see French Frying). 
Drain on kitchen paper. 

Dish in the form of a wreath, the one leaning on the 
other, and put a little jam on each. 

Gooseberry Fool. 

Ingredients — 1 quart of gooseberries. 
| lb. of moist sugar. 
\ pint of water. 
1 pint of milk or cream. 
Method. — Take the tops and stalks from the goose- 
berries, and boil them with the sugar and water until soft. 
Rub them through a hair sieve. 

Mix in the milk, or cream, gradually ; and serve on a 
glass dish. 

Apricot Pudding. 

Ingredients — J lb. of finely-chopped suet. 
\ lb. of bread-crumbs. 
3 eggs. 
3 tablespoonfuls of apricot jam. 



PUDDINGS. 181 

1 glass of sherry. 

2 oz. of sugar. 

Method. — Put the suet, bread-crumbs, and sugar into 
a basin, and mix with the eggs, well beaten, apricot and 
sherry. 

Put the mixture into a greased pudding-mould and 
boil for two hours. 

Stale-Bread Pudding. 

Ingredients — \ lb. scraps of bread. 

1 quart of boiling milk. 

2 eggs. 

2 oz. of sugar. 

^ lb. of currants. 
Method. — Soak the bread in cold water until soft. 
Squeeze it quite dry, and beat up with a fork. 
Pour the boiling milk over. 
Stir in the sugar and eggs, well beaten. 
Then stir in the currants. 
Bake in a pie -dish for two hours. 

Baked Plum Pudding. 

Ingredients — \ lb. of finely-chopped suet. 
| lb. of flour. 

J lb. of raisins, stoned and chopped. 
J lb. of currants. 
2 oz. of candied peel. 
2 oz. of moist sugar. 

1 egg. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
1 gill, or more, of milk. 

Method. — Put all the dry ingredients into a basin, and 
mix with the egg and milk ; it must be quite stiff. 

Bake in a greased baking-tin for one hour. 

For serving, cut into squares, and dust them over with 
castor sugar. 






182 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Treacle Pudding. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of flour. 

\ lb of finely-chopped suet. 

J lb. of treacle. 

\ oz. of ground ginger. 

1 egg. 

2 oz. of moist sugar. 
H gill of milk. 

1 teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Method. — Put the dry ingredients into a basin. 

Mix with the treacle and the egg well beaten with the 
milk. 

Boil in a greased basin for four hours. 
The egg may be omitted, if liked. 

Plum Pudding. 

Ingredients — J lb. of finely-chopped suet. 
^ lb. of currants. 

\ lb. of raisins, stoned and chopped. 
6 oz. of flour. 
6 oz. of bread-crumbs. 

2 oz. of candied peel. 

3 oz. of sugar. 

1 gill of milk. . 

2 eggs. 

\ teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Method. — Put the dry ingredients into a basin, and mix 
with the eggs and milk, well beaten together. 
Boil in a cloth or basin for four hours. 

Windsor Pudding. 

Ingredients — 2 oz. of semolina. 

1 oz. of candied peel. 
\ pint of milk. 
^ lb. of treacle. 



PUDDINGS. 183 

Method. — Mix the milk smoothly with the semolina. 
Then put it into a saucepan and stir until it thickens. 
Add the treacle and candied peel ; pour it into a pie- 
dish. 

Bake for ahout thirty minutes. 

Spring Pudding. 

Ingredients — 1 pint of gooseberries. 
^ pint of milk. 
4 oz. of moist sugar. 
Slices of bread-and-butter. 
Method. — Stew the gooseberries with a very little water 
and the sugar for ten minutes. 

Dip the bread into the milk, and lay a slice at the 
bottom of a pie -dish. 

Put a layer of gooseberries on it. 

Then another slice of bread-and-butter and more goose- 
berries. 

Continue in this manner until the dish is full. 
Bake gently for one hour. 



Gingerbread Pudding. 

Ingredients — J lb. of flour. 

•J lb. of treacle. 

J lb. of finely chopped suet. 

3 teaspoonfuls of ground ginger. 

J teaspoonful of baking powder. 

2 oz. of candied peel. 

1 egg. 

A little milk. 
Method. — Put the dry ingredients into a basin. 
Mix with the egg, well beaten, treacle and milk. 
Boil in a greased basin for three hours. 



184 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Economical Bread Pudding. 

Ingredients — | lb. of scraps of bread. 

J lb. of finely-chopped suet. 
J lb. of currants. 
3 oz. of moist sugar. 

1 egg. 

Method. — Soak the bread in cold water until soft; 
squeeze it quite dry. 

Beat it up with a fork. 

Add to it the suet, sugar, and currants, which should 
be well washed and dried. 

Mix with the egg, well beaten. 

Boil in a greased basin for an hour. 

Economical Ginger Pudding. 

Ingredients — \ lb. of scraps of bread. 

\ lb. of finely-chopped suet. 

2 oz. of moist sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of treacle. 

3 teaspoonfuls of ground ginger. 
Method. — Soak the bread in cold water until quite soft. 
Squeeze it dry, and beat with a fork until quite fine. 
Add the suet, sugar, and ginger, and mix with the 

treacle. 

Boil in a greased basin for an hour. 

Economical Fig Pudding. 

Ingredients — h lb. of scraps of bread. 

J lb. of finely- chopped suet. 

i lb. of figs. 

1 egg. 

3 oz. of moist sugar. 
Method. — Soak the bread in cold water until quite soft. 
Squeeze it dry. 



PUDDINGS. 185 

Add to it the suet, sugar, and figs, chopped small, and 
mix with beaten egg. 

Boil in a greased basin for one hour. 

Economical Lemon Pudding. 

Make like preceding recipe, substituting the grated rind 
and juice of two lemons for the figs. 

Currant Pudding. 

Ingredients — 3 eggs. 

The same weight of sugar, flour, and 

bread-crumbs. 
Suet, currants, minced apples. 
A little grated lemon rind. 
A little milk. 
Method. — Chop the suet finely, and add to it the sugar, 
flour, bread-crumbs, minced apple, currants, and grated 
lemon rind. 

Mix with the eggs, well beaten, and a little milk. 
Boil in a greased basin for three hours. 

Plain Cold Cabinet Pudding. 

Ingredients — 1 tablespoonful of flour. 

H tablespoonful of arrowroot. 

1 wineglass of sherry. 

A few raisins. 

3 stale sponge cakes. 

1 pint of milk. 

2 oz. of sugar. 

Method. — Put the milk to boil with the sugar. 

When boiling, stir in the flour, mixed with a little cold 
milk. 

When it thickens, add the arrowroot, also mixed 
smoothly with milk. 

Boil for three minutes, stirring all the time. 



186 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Then add to it the sherry. 
Cut the raisins in two and stone them. 
Decorate a plain round tin with them. 
Break up the cakes and put some pieces in the tin. 
Pour in some of the thickened milk, then some more 
pieces of cake, and more milk. 

Continue in this way until the mould is full. 

Set it aside until quite cold. 

Then turn it out, and serve with jam. 

Cornflour Pudding. 

Ingredients — 2 tablespoonfuls of cornflour. 

1 pint of milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. 
1 egg, if liked. 

Method. — Put the milk on to boil. 
Put the cornflour into a pie-dish with the sugar. 
Mix smoothly with a little cold milk. 
Pour on it the boiling milk, stirring quickly until it 
thickens. 

Add the egg, well beaten, and a little flavouring essence. 
Bake in a pie-dish for about thirty minutes. 

Swiss Pudding. 

Ingredients — 2 lb. of apples. 

J lb. of bread-crumbs. 

3 oz. of moist sugar. 

A little grated lemon rind. 
1 oz. of butter. 
Method. — Peel, core, and slice the apples. 
Put a layer of them into a buttered pie-dish. 
Sprinkle them with crumbs, lemon rind, and a little 
sugar, and put small pieces of butter about them. 

Put some pieces of apple on the top ; sprinkle them also 
with crumbs, lemon rind, sugar, and butter. 



PUDDINGS. 187 

Continue in the same way until the dish is full. 
Bake until the pudding is nicely browned. 
For serving, it may be turned out of the dish. 

Brown-Bread Pudding. 

Ingredients — 1 loaf of brown bread. 
1 gill of double cream. 
The rind of 1 lemon. 

3 oz. of castor sugar. 
1 gill of milk. 

4 eggs. 

A few drops of essence of vanilla. 

Method. — Kemove the crust from the loaf, and rub the 
crumb through a wire sieve. 

Put five ounces of the crumbs into a basin with the 
sugar and grated lemon rind. 

Boil the milk, pour it over the crumbs, and add the 
vanilla essence. 

Whip the cream to a stiff froth, and mix it with the 
pudding, adding also the yolks of the eggs. 

Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and stir 
them in lightly. 

Put the mixture into a well-greased mould, and steam 
for an hour and a half. 

Diplomatic Pudding. 

Ingredients — \ pint of sweet jelly. 

1 pint of milk. 

^ oz. of gelatine. 

2 sponge cakes. 
2 oz. of ratafias. 

1 whole egg, and 4 yolks. 

2 oz. of sugar. 

A little flavouring essence. 
Method. — Soak the gelatine in a little milk. 



188 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Break the sponge cakes and ratafias, and put them into 
a basin. 

Boil the milk with the sugar. 

Beat the eggs, and pour the milk on them. 

Strain it into a jug, and put it to stand in a saucepan 
of boiling water, and stir until the custard coats the spoon. 

Then melt the gelatine, add it to the custard, and pour 
it at once over the cakes. 

While the mixture cools, pour a little jelly, coloured 
with cochineal, into a plain round tin. 

When it is set, place a jam-pot, or a smaller tin, on it, 
and pour some jelly round the sides. 

When it is quite firm, pour some boiling water into the 
jam-pot, or tin, and remove it quickly. 

When the custard and cakes are cold, but not set, add 
the essence, and pour into the mould. 

When quite firm, dip the tin in hot water for a second 
or two, and turn it on to a glass dish. 

Pease Pudding. 

Ingredients — 1 pint of split peas. 
Pepper and salt. 

Method.— Soak the peas overnight. 

Tie them in a bag or cloth, leaving room for them to 
swell. 

Cook them with the meat with which they are to be 
served. 

Then drain them in a colander. 

Mash them with pepper and salt, and press them into a 
shape in a vegetable-dish. 

Hominy Porridge. 

Ingredients — 1 pint of milk or water. 

3 tablespoonfuls of flaked hominy. 
Method. — Mix the hominy smoothly with the milk or 
water. 

Stir and cook over the fire for ten minutes. 



PUDDINGS. 189 



Hominy Pudding. 

Ingredients — 3 tablespoonfuls of flaked hominy. 

1 pint of milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Method. — Mix the hominy with a little cold milk, and 
make the remainder boil. 

Then stir in the hominy and cook until it thickens. 

Add the sugar, pour into a greased pie-dish, and bake 
for about half an hour. 

If liked, one or two eggs may be added to the pudding, 
with a little flavouring essence. 

Note. — The flaked hominy is the best for general purposes, as 
the granulated takes many hours boiling before it is properly 
cooked. 



190 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



VEGETABLES. 

The rules for cooking vegetables are very simple, and 
easily remembered. All vegetables, with the exception 
of old potatoes, are put into boiling water. Green vege- 
tables must be boiled with the lid off the saucepan, as the 
steam would discolour them, and the water must boil, not 
simmer. Salt is added, in the proportion of one table - 
spoonful to every two quarts of water. If the water is 
very hard, it may be necessary to add a little piece of soda. 
The lime in hard water discolours green vegetables, and 
the use of soda is to throw this down. Do not, however, 
use soda, unless obliged, as too much of it will destroy, to 
some extent, the flavour of the vegetables. Peas must be 
boiled gently, as rapid boiling would break their skins. 
Haricot beans must be boiled gently, for the same reason. 
Boot vegetables take longer to cook than fresh ones. Old 
potatoes must be put into warm water, as they require 
gradual cooking, and must be boiled gently, until tender. 
With that exception, all the others must be put into boiling 
water. Carrots, turnips, and parsnips are generally cooked 
with the meat with which they are served, as their flavour 
is thereby improved. 

To Boil Potatoes. 

If boiled in their skins, scrub them perfectly clean, and 
put them into a saucepan with sufficient warm water to 
cover them. 

Sprinkle them with salt and boil them gently for half 
an hour or more, until very nearly tender, but not quite. 



VEGETABLES. 191 

Then pour the water away. 

Peel the potatoes, replace them in the saucepan, sprinkle 
salt upon them, cover them with a cloth, and put the lid 
on the saucepan. 

Let them stand by the side of the fire to finish cooking 
in their own steam. 

Care must be taken that the potatoes cooked in this 
way are free from disease. One tainted potato would 
destroy the flavour of the others. 

If cooked without their skins, pare them thinly and 
treat them in the same manner, pouring off the water when 
they are very nearly tender, and finish cooking them in 
their own steam. 

If the potatoes are good and are cooked according to 
these directions, they will be perfectly dry and flowery. 

To Steam Potatoes. 

Put the potatoes into the steamer, and sprinkle them 
with salt. 

Keep the water in the saucepan underneath quickly 
boiling the whole time the potatoes are cooking. 

If the potatoes are cooked in their skins,* peel them 
when very nearly tender, and put them back in the steamer 
to finish cooking. 

Steaming is one of the simplest and best ways of cooking- 
potatoes. If the potatoes are good and the water is kept 
briskly boiling, this method cannot fail to be successful. 

* This should only be clone when untainted by disease. 

To Cook New Potatoes. 

Put the potatoes into boiling water with some salt, and 
boil gently for twenty minutes or more, according to their 
age. 

When very nearly tender pour off the water, cover them 
with a cloth, and set the saucepan by the side of the fire, 
and finish cooking in their own steam. 



192 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Baked Potatoes. 

Choose nice potatoes, not too large, and scrub them 
perfectly clean. 

Bake them in a moderate oven for about an hour. 

Brussels Sprouts. 

Trim them nicely and put them in boiling water, adding 
salt in the proportion of a tablespoonful to every two quarts 
of water. 

Put in a little sugar, or, if the water is hard, a little 
piece of soda the size of a pea. 

Boil them quickly, with the lid off the saucepan, from 
ten to twenty minutes, according to the size and age of the 
sprouts. 

When tender, drain them quite dry in a colander. 

Dry the saucepan and put them back with a little 
butter, pepper, and salt. 

Shake them over the fire for a minute or so, and then 
serve on a hot dish. 

To Boil a Cauliflower. 

Soak it in salt and water to draw out any insects, and 
trim off the outside leaves. 

Put it, with the flower downwards, into a saucepan of 
boiling water with salt in it, and cook from twenty to thirty 
minutes, according to its age. 

Drain it on a sieve or colander. 

If liked, it may be served with white or French sauce 
poured over it (see Sauces.) 

Green Peas. 

Put them into plenty of boiling water, with a little 
sugar and a sprig or two of mint. 



VEGETABLES. 193 

Boil gently with the lid off the saucepan for twenty 
minutes or more, according to their size and age. 

Drain them in a colander. 

Then put them into a saucepan with a little piece of 
butter, a teaspoonful of castor sugar, pepper and salt, 
and shake them over the fire for a minute or two. 

French Beans. 

Eemove the strings and cut the beans into slices. 

Put them into plenty of boiling water, with salt in the 
proportion of one tablespoonful to every two quarts of 
water, a little sugar, or, if the water is hard, a small piece 
of soda about the size of a pea. 

Boil quickly for fifteen minutes or longer, according to 
their age. 

Drain in a colander. 

Then put them into a saucepan with a small piece of 
butter, pepper and salt, and shake them over the fire for a 
minute or two. 

Spinach. 

Pull off the stalks and wash the spinach well in several 
waters to remove all grit. 

Put it into a saucepan without any water but that which 
adheres to the leaves, and sprinkle a little salt over it. 

Cook with the lid off the saucepan until quite tender, 
stirring it occasionally. 

Drain it in a colander, and wring it dry in a cloth. 

Then chop it, or rub it through a wire sieve. The latter 
method is preferable. 

To dress it, mix it in a saucepan over the fire with a 
little butter, pepper, and salt ; a little cream may be used 
also, care being taken not to make the spinach too moist 
to serve. 

Press it into shape, as a mound or pyramid, in a vege- 
table dish, and garnish with fried croutons of bread. 

o 



194 THE SKILFUL COOK, 

Asparagus. 

Cut the asparagus all the same length, and scrape the 
white part lightly. 

Tie it together and put it in "boiling water, to which salt 
has been added, in the proportion of one tablespoonful to 
two quarts of water. 

Add also half an ounce of butter. 

Boil gently with the lid off the saucepan for half an 
hour, until the green part is tender — very young asparagus 
will not take so long. 

Dish on toast ; if liked, French or white sauce may be 
poured over the green ends. 

Jerusalem Artichokes. 

Peel them, and throw them into boiling water, with 
salt in the proportion of one tablespoonful to every two 
quarts of water. 

Boil gently with the lid on the saucepan for about 
fifteen or twenty minutes, until quite tender. 

They may be served plain, or with French or white 
sauce poured over them. 

They should be sent to table quickly, or they will be 
discoloured. 

Carrots. 

Scrape them and put them into boiling water with salt 
in it, in the proportion of one tablespoonful to every two 
quarts of water. 

Boil gently with the lid on the saucepan until they 
are quite tender. 

New carrots will take about twenty minutes, old ones an 
hour or more, according to their age and size. 

When they are served with boiled meat, they are 
generally cooked with it. New carrots are sometimes 
boiled in second stock. 



VEGETABLES. 195 

When tender, they are put on a hot vegetable dish, the 
stock is rapidly boiled down to a glaze, and poured over 
them. 

Turnips. 

Boil according to directions given for cooking carrots. 
Turnips generally take about half an hour ; but the time 
depends on their age and size. If liked, they may be 
rubbed through a wire sieve, and mashed with butter, 
pepper, and salt. 

Parsnips. 

Cook like carrots. They maybe served plain, or rubbed 
through a wire sieve and mashed with butter, pepper, and 
salt. 

Haricot Beans. 

Soak them overnight. 

Put them into boiling water with a small piece of butter 
and a small onion. 

Boil gently from three to four hours until quite tender. 

Drain them, and before serving shake them over the 
fire with a little butter, pepper, and salt. 

Spanish Onions. 

First blanch them by putting them into cold water and 
bringing it to the boil. 

Then throw away the water. 

Kinse the onions, sprinkle some salt over them, and 
put them into fresh water. 

Boil gently from two to three hours, until perfectly 
tender. 

Drain them, and serve, if liked, with French, Italian 
or white sauce. 

Spanish onions are sometimes boiled in stock, or milk 
which is afterwards used to make the sauce. 

o 2 



196 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Celery. 

Clean the celery thoroughly, and tie it in bundles. 

Put it in boiling water, milk, or stock, with a little salt 
and butter, and simmer gently for twenty minutes or more, 
until quite tender. 

Dish on a piece of toast. 

If liked, a sauce may be made with the liquor in which 
the celery has been cooked, and poured over it. 



Vegetable Marrows. 

Peel the marrows thinly, and cut them in quarters, 
removing the seeds. 

Put them in boiling water, with salt in the proportion 
of one tablespoonful to every two quarts of water, and boil 
gently until tender. 

They may be served, if desired, with French or white 
sauce poured over them. 

Marrows are very nice when boiled in milk ; the milk 
can afterwards be used to make the sauce. 



Cabbage. 

Take off the outer decayed leaves, and soak the cabbage 
in salt and water, to draw out any insects. If very large, 
cut into quarters. 

Put into boiling water, to which salt should be added, 
in the proportion of a tablespoonful to every two quarts of 
water. If the water is hard, a piece of soda the size of a 
bean should be added. 

Boil quickly — with the lid off the saucepan — for half 
an hour, or more, until tender. 

Drain well in a colander before serving. 



VEGETABLES. 197 



Broad Beans. 

Put them, when shelled, into boiling water, to which 
salt should be added in the proportion of a tablespoonful 
to every two quarts of water. 

Boil gently, from fifteen minutes to half an hour, 
according to their size and age. 

When tender, pour the water away, and shake them in 
the saucepan over the fire, with a little butter or dripping, 
pepper, and salt. 

Tomatoes. 

These are better baked than boiled : boiling destroys 
their flavour. 

Put them on a baking-tin, greased with butter or drip- 
ping. 

Sprinkle over them a little pepper and salt, and cover 
them with a greased paper. 

Put them in a moderate oven, for about ten minutes or 
a quarter of an hour. 

Seakale. 

Tie it in bundles, and put into boiling water, with 
a little butter, and also some salt, in the proportion of a 
tablespoonful to every two quarts of water. 

Boil, with the lid off the saucepan, until the seakale 
is tender. 

Drain, and serve on toast. French or white sauce 
may be poured over it. 

Seakale is sometimes boiled in milk, which should 
afterwards be used to make the sauce. 

Mushrooms. 

Peel the mushrooms ; rinse them to remove any grit, 
and cut off the ends of the stalks. 



1 98 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Put them on a greased baking-tin, with the stalks up- 
wards, and put some little bits of butter on each mush- 
room, with a little pepper and salt. 

Cover them with buttered paper, and bake them in a 
moderate oven from ten to twenty minutes, until tender. 

Serve on a hot dish, with the gravy poured over them. 

Stewed Mushrooms. 

Peel and rinse the mushrooms, and cut off the ends of 
the stalks. 

Stew them gently in water, stock, or milk, until quite 
tender, adding pepper and salt to taste. 

Then thicken the gravy with a little flour, and let it 
cook well, stirring carefully. 

Before serving, stir in a little cream or butter. 

Fried Potatoes. 

Take thin peelings of potatoes, and twist into fancy 
shapes, or cut the potatoes into thin slices. 

Dry them well in a cloth, and drop them into hot fat 
(see French Frying) until quite crisp, and of a light brown 
colour. 

Eemove them with a fish-slice or colander-spoon, and 
drain them on kitchen paper. 

Tomato Farni. 

Ingredients — 6 or 8 ripe tomatoes. 
1 oz. of butter. 
^ oz. of flour. 
1 gill of stock or milk. 
1 dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. 
1 dessertspoonful of chopped cooked ham. 
1 dessertspoonful of grated Parmesan 

cheese. 
A few button mushrooms, chopped. 



VEGETABLES. 199 

A few drops of lemon juice. 

Some white and browned bread-crumbs. 

Pepper and salt. 

Method. — Melt the butter in a small stewpan. 

Mix in the flour smoothly. 

Then add the stock or milk ; stir and cook well. 

Then mix in sufficient white bread-crumbs to make 
the mixture stiff. 

Add the parsley, mushrooms, cheese, ham, lemon-juice, 
pepper, and salt. 

Scoop out the top of each tomato. 

Pile a little of the stuffing on each, and sprinkle a few 
browned bread-crumbs over. 

Put them on a greased baking-sheet, and cook them in 
a moderate oven for about a quarter of an hour. 



Cauliflower au gratin. 

Ingredients — 1 cauliflower . 
1 oz. of butter. 
1 oz. of flour. 

1 gill of water. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream. 

2 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese. 
Pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. 

Method. — Boil the cauliflower ; remove the green leaves. 

Place it, with the flower upwards, in a vegetable -dish, 
and press it into an oval shape. 

Melt the butter in a small stewpan. 

Mix the flour in smoothly. 

Add the water ; stir and cook well. 

Then add the cream, and one ounce of Parmesan cheese, 
pepper, salt, and cayenne. 

Pour the sauce over the cauliflower. 

Sprinkle the remainder of the cheese over it, and brown, 
either with a salamander or in a quick oven. 



200 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Potato Croquettes. 

Ingredients — 2 lb. of potatoes. 
2 oz. of butter. 
2 eggs. 

Pepper and salt. 
Some white bread-crumbs. 
Method. — Boil the potatoes, and rub them through a 
wire sieve. 

Mash them well with the butter, pepper, and salt. 
Mix in one egg, well beaten. 

Flour the hands very slightly, and form the mixture 
in balls, or any other shape preferred. 

Brush them over with beaten egg, and cover them 
with crumbs. 

Slightly mould them again when the crumbs are on 
them. 

Fry in a frying-basket, in hot fat (see French Frying). 
Garnish with fried parsley. 

Salsify Patties. 

Ingredients — Some patty-cases, made as for oysters. 
h lb. of salsify. 

1 oz. of flour. 
\ pint of milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream. 
A few drops of lemon juice. 
Pepper and salt. 

A little cayenne. 
Method, — Cook the salsify in milk or water until tender. 
Then cut it into small pieces. 

Melt the butter in a small stewpan, mix in the flour 
smoothly. 

Then add the milk ; stir and cook well. 



VEGETABLES. 201 

Mix in the cream and let it boil in the sauce. 
Then add the lemon juice, seasoning, and salsify. 
Fill the patty-cases with the mixture, and put a lid on 
each. 

Tomatoes au gratin. 

Ingredients — H lb. of tomatoes. 

1 pint of bread-crumbs. 

2 oz. of butter. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 

Method. — Slice the tomatoes, and put a layer of them 
in the bottom of a pie-dish. 

Cover them with crumbs ; sprinkle with pepper and 
salt, and place small pieces of butter on them. 

Then put another layer of tomatoes, covering them in 
the same way with crumbs. 

Use up all the tomatoes and crumbs in this way, 
letting the last layer be of crumbs. 

Bake in a quick oven for about twenty minutes, 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Ingredients — 1 oz. of butter to every pound of potatoes. 
1 tablespoonful of cream, if possible. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 

Method. — The potatoes should be well cooked, and be 
dry and floury. 

Put them quickly through a wire sieve. 

Mix them well in a saucepan with the butter, cream, 
and seasoning. 

Make them quite hot. 

Heap them in a mound-like form in a vegetable dish, 
and smooth over with a knife. 

Mashed Potatoes (a plainer way). 

Add to the potatoes, while in the saucepan, some 
butter or dripping. 



202 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Season with pepper and salt. 

Beat with a fork until perfectly smooth and free from 
lumps. 

Where economy must be studied, nice beef dripping 
will be found an excellent substitute for butter. 

Potato Balls. 

Form some mashed potatoes into balls. 
Brush them over with beaten egg. 
Put them on a greased baking-tin, and bake in a quick 
oven until brown. 

Serve garnished with parsley. 

This is a nice way of using up cold potatoes. 

Flaked Potatoes. 

Bub some nicely-cooked floury potatoes through a wire 
sieve into a hot vegetable dish. This must be done quickly, 
that the potatoes may be served quite hot. 

Rice for a Curry. 

Well wash some Patna rice. Throw it into plenty of 
quickly-boiling water with salt in it, and boil until the rice 
is nearly cooked, but not quite. This will take from eight 
to ten minutes. Strain the rice on a sieve and pour hot 
water over it, rinsing it well. Then put it in the saucepan 
again, cover it and let it stand in a hot place to finish cook- 
ing in its own steam. 



203 



SOUPS. 

These are very valuable preparations, and are useful to the 
poor as well as to the rich, as many of the most nutritious 
soups are the cheapest. Pea soup, haricot soup, and lentil 
soup are all rich in nourishment, and may be made at a 
trifling cost, stock not being necessary for their manufac- 
ture. The boilings from meat, when not too salt, may be 
used with advantage in making these soups ; but if this is 
not available, they may be made quite well with water ; 
and, if carefully prepared, will have all the flavour of a 
meat soup. 

In making stock for meat soups, it must be borne in 
mind that in order to extract the juices from the meat it 
must be put into cold water, which should be heated very 
gradually, and only allowed to simmer. In this way a rich 
stock is procured, as all the virtue of the meat is drawn 
into the water. Boiling would produce a poor and flavour- 
less stock, as the extreme heat applied, by hardening the 
albumen, would tend to keep in the juices of the meat 
instead of drawing them out. 

In making stock from bones, the method to be pursued 
is quite the opposite. Bones must be boiled, otherwise the 
gelatine in them will not be extracted ; simmering would 
be of little use. The gelatine can only be thoroughly ex- 
tracted when they are boiled at higher pressure than is 
possible in ordinary cookery. Bones contain so much gela- 
tine that after they have been once used in stock they should 
be broken up in pieces and again boiled, so that the gelatine 
from the inside may also be extracted. 



204 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

An economical cook will often make excellent stock for 
soup from bones alone, with the addition of suitable vege- 
tables for flavouring. 

First Stock for Clear Soup. 

Ingredients — 4 lb. of shin of beef, or 2 lb. of shin of 
beef and 2 lb. of knuckle of veal. 

5 pints of water. 

2 carrots. 

2 turnips. 

1 onion. 

The white part of a leek. 

1 dozen peppercorns. 

1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 

A bay leaf. 

Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Cut the meat into pieces about one inch in size. 
Break up the bone and remove the marrow. 
Put bones and meat into a stockpot with the cold water. 
Let them soak for half an hour. 

Then put the pot on the fire ; add some salt and pepper 
to it, and gently simmer the contents for half an hour. 

Next put in the vegetables sliced, and the herbs tied 
together. 

Simmer for 4^ hours longer, skimming occasionally. 
Strain into a clean pan, and set aside to get cold. 

White Stock. 

This may be made by the directions in the preceding 
recipe, using white meat instead of beef; knuckle of veal 
is considered the stock meat for white soup. Knuckle of 
veal and a rabbit make excellent stock. 

Very good economical white stock may be made by using 
bones only in making the stock, and no meat ; use a ham- 
bone, if possible, with the others, as this gives a nice flavour. 



SOUPS. 205 



Second Stock. 



Take any scraps of cooked or uncooked meat ; any bones, 
cooked or uncooked, to make second stock. Allow one pint 
of water to every pound of meat and bones, and vegetables 
in the same proportion as for first stock. The bones should 
be broken up. Boil gently until all the virtue is extracted 
from the meat, bones, and vegetables. The contents of 
the stockpot should be emptied into a pan every night, and 
the stock strained from the meat, bones, and vegetables. 
These should be looked over, and the bones, meat, &c, 
which are of no further use removed ; the remainder should 
be set aside to use with fresh stock material. Bones may 
be boiled for a very long time before the gelatine will be 
perfectly extracted. 

Second stock, when cold, should be a stiff jelly, in conse- 
quence of the gelatine contained in the bones. 



White Stock from Bones uncooked. 

Ingredients — 4 lb. of uncooked bones, with a ham- 
bone, if possible, amongst them. 
5 pints of water. 
2 carrots. 
2 turnips. 
1 large onion. 
Half a head of celery. 
1 sprig of parsley. 
Thyme, marjoram, and a bay leaf. 
1 blade of mace. 
Method. — Break up the bones and put them with the 
vegetables, sliced, into a stockpot with the water; boil 
gently for five hours, adding pepper and salt to taste. Then 
strain into a clean pan, 



206 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Clear Soup. 

Ingredients — 2 quarts of first stock. 
| lb. of gravy beef. 
The white and shell of one egg. 

Method. — Remove all the fat from the stock. If it is in 
a jelly, take off as much as possible with an iron spoon, and 
remove the remainder by washing the top of the stock with 
a cloth dipped in very hot water. 

Scrape the beef finely and soak it in two tablespoonfuls 
of cold water to loosen the juices. 

Put the stock in a stewpan and add the beef to it, the 
white and shell of the egg, and a very tiny piece of each 
kind of vegetable used in making the stock. 

Whisk over the fire until the stock begins to simmer. 

Then leave off stirring and let it well boil up. 

Remove it from the fire and put it on one side for a 
crust to form. 

Tie a clean cloth to the four legs of a chair turned up- 
side down. 

Pour some boiling water through it into a basin, to 
ensure it being perfectly clean. 

Then put a clean basin underneath and pour all the 
contents of the stewpan on to the cloth. The first time 
the soup runs through it will be cloudy, because the filter 
made by the beef and egg will not have settled at the 
bottom of the cloth. 

Take the soup away ; put a clean basin under the cloth, 
and pour the soup slowly through. 

If this is carefully done the soup will be quite brilliant 
the second time of straining, and will not require to go 
through the cloth again. 

Julienne Soup. 

This is a clear soup with shred vegetables served in it. 
Scrape some carrots and take thin parings of them. 
Cut these into very thin strips. 



soups. 207 

Take some thin slices of turnip and cut them into strips 
of the same length. 

Boil the turnips for five minutes, and the carrots for 
fifteen minutes. 

ConsommSe au Royal. 

This is clear soup with a savoury custard in it. 

Savoury Custard. 

Ingredients — 1 whole egg. 
1 yolk. 

^ gill of clear soup. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 
Method. — Beat the eggs and soup together and strain 
them into a greased gallipot. 

Cover them with buttered paper and steam very gently 
for a quarter of an hour until the custard is firm. 
Let it cool, then turn it out. Cut into thin slices. 
Stamp into dice or diamonds and serve them in the 
clear soup. 

If the custard is not very gently steamed it will be full 
of holes, and useless for this purpose. 

Consommee h. la Princesse. 

Serve small quenelles (see Quenelles of Veal), made in 
teaspoons, and nicely poached, in the clear soup. 

Friar Tuck. / 

Make one quart of clear soup boiling hot. Beat two 
eggs well. When the soup is quite bailing, strain the eggs 
through a pointed strainer into it. 

Celery Soup. 

Ingredients — 2 quarts of second stock* 
4 heads of celery. 



208 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

4 oz. of flour. 

^ pint of cream or good milk. 

Method. — Wash the celery well and cut it in pieces. 

Simmer it in the stock for half an hour or more until 
quite tender. 

Make a thickening of the flour ; pour it into the soup and 
boil, stirring, for three minutes. 

Then rub through a sieve. 

Put it into the saucepan again. 

Add the cream, stir and let it boil up. 

Serve with fried croutons of bread. 

Oyster Soup. 

Ingredients — 2 dozen oysters. 

H pint of white stock. 

2 oz. of butter. 

2 oz. of flour. 

1 teaspoonfnl of anchovy sauce. 

A few drops of lemon juice. 

Pepper and salt. 
Method.- — Beard the oysters and cut them in two. 
Put the beards into the stock and simmer them in it for 
a few minutes. 

Melt the butter in another stewpan ; mix in the flour 
smoothly ; pour in the stock ; stir and boil well. 
Add the cream and let it boil in the soup. 
Strain the oyster liquor and scald the oysters in it. 
Put them in the soup and add the anchovy sauce and 
lemon juice. 

Haricot Soup. 

Ingredients — 1 pint of haricot beans. 

1 onion. 

2 quarts of water. 
1 pint of milk. 

^ oz. of dripping. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 



soups. 209 

Method. — Soak the beans over night in cold water. 

Boil them with the onion, dripping, pepper and salt, in 
three pints of water, from three to four hours, until quite 
soft. 

Rub them with their liquor through a wire sieve. 

Add the milk, and make the soup hot, stirring it over 
the fire until it boils. 

Serve with fried croutons of bread. 

Note. — This soup is much improved if it is rubbed through 
a liair sieve after it has been through the wire sieve. 

Green Pea Pur6e. 

Ingredients — 2 pints of shelled peas. 

A large handful of pea-shells. 
2 or 3 leaves of spinach. 

2 or 3 sprigs of parsley. 
A few young onions. 

A sprig of mint. 

A small piece of soda. 

1 lump of sugar. 

3 pints of second stock. 

2 tablespoonfuls of arrowroot. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 

Method. — Wash the shells well, and put them, with the 
peas and other vegetables, into boiling water, to which is 
added the soda and the sugar. 

When quite tender, drain off the water, and put the 
vegetables into the stock, which should be made boiling. 

Let it boil up. 

Then rub through a hair sieve. 

Make the soup hot ; thicken with arrow-root ; and, in 
serving, add, if liked, a little cream, or glaze. 

Potage a I'Americaine. 

Ingredients — 3 pints of second stock. 

2 tablespoonfuls of crushed tapioca. 
8 good-sized tomatoes. 



210 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Method. — Put the stock into a stewpan on the fire to boil. 
When boiling, stir in the crushed tapioca. 
Stir and cook for about ten minutes, until it is trans 
arent. 

Eub the tomatoes through a hair sieve. 
Add them to the stock. 

Boil for about two minutes and the soup will be ready 
to serve. 

Cream may be added if liked. 

Onion Soup. 

Ingredients — 6 Spanish onions. 
3 oz. of butter. 

2 quarts of water. 

3 oz. of flour. 

\ pint of milk or cream. 

Pepper and salt to taste. 
Method. — Peel the onions, and cut them in slices. 
Fry them in the butter, but do not let them discolour. 
Then boil them in the water until quite soft. 
Eub them with their liquor through a hair sieve. 
Put this puree into a stewpan on the fire to boil. 
When boiling, stir in a thickening of the flour. 
Stir and cook well. 

Then add the milk or cream, pepper, and salt, to taste. 
Let the soup boil up, and it is ready. 
Serve with fried croutons of bread. 

Tapioca Cream. 

Ingredients — 1^ pint of white stock. 

1 oz. of crushed tapioca. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream. 
The yolks of 2 eggs. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 

Method. — Put the stock into a stewpan on the fire to 
boil. 



SOUPS. 211 

When boiling, sprinkle in the crushed tapioca. 

Stir and cook well for about ten minutes. 

Beat the yolks lightly with the cream, and strain them. 

Let the stock cool a little, and then add two or three 
tablespoonfuls of it gradually to the eggs and cream. 

Pour the eggs and cream into the stock, and stir over 
the fire until the eggs thicken like custard. 

Care must be taken that the stock does not boil after 
the eggs are in it, as that would curdle them. 

Palestine Soup. 

Ingredients — 3 lb. of Jerusalem artichokes. 

2 quarts of stock ; or the liquor mutton 
or veal has been boiled in. 

1 onion. 

1 turnip. 

\ head of celery. 

\ pint of cream, or good milk. 

Pepper and salt to taste. 
Method. — Peel and cut the artichokes and other vege- 
tables into slices. 

Boil them in the stock until tender. 
Kub through a hair sieve. 
Add the cream, and boil it in the soup. 
Add pepper and salt ; and serve with fried croutons of 
bread. 

Potato Puree. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of potatoes. 
1 onion. 

1 stick of celery. 
H pint of white stock, 
-fr pint of cream or milk. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 
Method. — Peel the potatoes, and cut them, as well as 
the onion and the celery, into thin slices. 

p 2 



212 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Put them in the stock, and simmer gently until tender. 
Eub through a tammy- cloth or hair sieve. 
Add the cream to the soup, and make it hot. 
Serve with fried croutons of bread. 

Egyptian Pur6e or Lentil Soup. 

Ingredients — 1 pint of Egyptian lentils. 

1 good-sized onion. 
Carrot and turnip. 

3 sticks of celery, or one dessertspoonful 
of celery seed tied in a piece of muslin. 

2 quarts of water, or liquor from a leg of 
mutton. 

Pepper and salt. 

Method. — Wash the lentils thoroughly. 

Then boil them in the water with the vegetables, cut 
in small pieces, from two to three hours, stirring occa- 
sionally ; when quite cooked, rub through a wire sieve ; 
season to taste. 

Make the soup hot in a stewpan, stirring all the time. 

Serve with fried croutons of bread. 

Note.— This soup is much improved if it is rubbed through a 
hair sieve, after it has been through the wire sieve. 

Pea Soup. 

Make according to directions given in preceding recipe, 
substituting split peas for lentils. 

Calf-tail Soup. 

Ingredients — 4 calves' tails. 
1 carrot. 
1 turnip. 
1 onion. 

1 sprig of thyme, parsley, and marjoram. 
A little celery. 



SOUPS. 213 

1 small clove of garlic. 

1 dozen peppercorns. 
4 oz. flour. 

2 quarts of stock. 
Salt. 

Method. — Cut the tails into joints. 

Put them into a stewpan, with the water ; when it sim- 
mers put in the vegetables, &c, and cook very gently for 
four hours. 

Remove the pieces of tail, and let the stock get cold. 

Then remove the fat, and thicken the stock with the 
flour. 

Serve with the pieces of tail in it. A wineglass of 
sherry may be added if liked. 

Ox-tail Soup. 

Ingredients — 1 ox-tail. 

3 quarts of stock. 

1 carrot, 1 turnip, and 1 onion. 
Half a head of celery. 
1 slice of ham. 

1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 

2 bay leaves. 

3 cloves. 
Pepper and salt. 
2 oz. of butter. 

1 wineglass of sherry. 

A few drops of lemon juice. 

4 oz. of flour. 
Method. — Cut the ox-tail into joints. 

Fry them in the butter, with the vegetables, cut in 
pieces. 

Put the tail and vegetables into a large saucepan with 
the stock, pepper, salt, and cloves. 

Boil for very nearly four hours. 

Then strain the stock. 



214 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Eemove the pieces of tail, and put them on one side. 

When the stock is quite cold, remove the fat perfectly 
and put the stock in a stewpan on the fire to boil. 

When it boils, stir in a thickening made of the flour. 

Stir, and cook the flour well. 

Then add the sherry and lemon juice. Serve with the 
pieces of tail in it. 

Sheep's-head Soup. 

Ingredients — 1 sheep's head. 

3 quarts of water. 
1 large carrot. 

1 large turnip. 

1 large onion. 

1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 

1 head of celery. 

4 oz. of flour. 

1 teaspoonful of minced parsley. 

2 tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs. 
1 egg. 

Pepper and salt. 

Method. — Split open the head, and clean it thoroughly. 

Eemove the tongue and brains, and blanch the head by 
putting it into cold water and bringing it to the boil. 

Throw the water away, and rinse the head well. 

Put it into a large saucepan with the three quarts of 
water and the vegetables, cut in small pieces. 

Boil gently for five hours. 

Then strain into a basin, and rub the meat and vege- 
tables through a wire sieve. 

When cold, remove the fat from the stock, and add the 
pulped vegetables and meat. 

Make the soup hot, and stir in a thickening made of the 
flour. 

Boil the flour well, stirring all the time. 

Serve the soup with forcemeat balls in it. 



SOUPS. 215 

To make the Forcemeat Balls. —Boil the tongue and 
brains separately. 

Chop them up ; mix them with the bread-crumbs, 
pepper, salt, and the minced parsley, and bind with the egg. 

Make into balls, and roll them in flour ; place them on 
a greased baking-sheet and bake until brown. 

Put them in a soup -tureen, and pour the soup over 
them. 

Tapioca Soup. 

Ingredients — 2 oz. of tapioca. 

4 pints of second stock. 
Method. — Wash the tapioca well, and throw it into the 
stock when boiling. 

Simmer gently for half an hour, stirring occasionally. 

Ox-cheek Soup. 

Ingredients — 1 ox-cheek. 

Some cold water, allowing 1 pint to every 

pound of meat and 1 quart over. 
2 carrots. 
2 turnips. 
2 onions. 
Half a head of celery. 

1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 

2 bay leaves. 
Pepper and salt. 
Flour. 

If possible, a ham-bone. 
A few drops of lemon juice. 
Method. — Cut up the cheek, and put it with the bone 
and vegetables into a stockpot to boil gently for five hours, 
skimming occasionally. 

Then strain the stock into a clean pan and set it aside 
to get cold. 

When cold, carefully remove all the fat. 

Put the stock into a stewpan on the fire to boil. 



216 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

When boiling, stir in a thickening made of the flour, 
mixed smoothly with cold water. Use one ounce of flour 
to every pint of stock. 

Stir and boil the flour in the stock for three minutes. 

Add to it a squeeze of lemon juice, and serve the soup 
with neat pieces of the cheek, about one inch in size, in it. 

The remains of the cheek may be reboiled, with fresh 
vegetables, to make a plain second stock. 

Giblet Soup. 

Ingredients — 2 sets of goose or 4 sets of duck giblets. 
£ of a head of celery. 
1 carrot. 
1 turnip. 

1 onion. 

2 cloves. 

1 blade of mace, 

1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 

2 quarts of second stock. 

A few drops of lemon juice. 
Pepper and salt. 

Method. — Clean the giblets thoroughly, and cut them 
in pieces. 

Put them into a saucepan, with the vegetables sliced, 
and the stock, and simmer gently for two hours. 

Then take out the best pieces of giblet, trim them 
neatly, and set them aside. 

Simmer the soup for half an hour longer. 

Then add to it a thickening of flour, using one ounce of 
flour to every pint of stock. 

Boil and cook the flour well, and add pepper and salt 
to taste. 

Strain the soup into another saucepan. 

Add to it the lemon juice, and, if liked, two glasses of 
Madeira wine ; also the pieces of giblet. 

Make it quite hot, and it is then ready for serving. 



SOUPS. 217 



Milk Soup. 

Ingredients — 4 potatoes. 
2 onions. 

2 oz. of butter or dripping. 

3 tablespoonfuls of semolina. 

1 pint of milk. 

2 quarts of liquor from meat. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 

Method. — Slice the potatoes and onions ; add them to 
the meat liquor, with the butter and pepper and salt to 
taste, and boil gently for one hour. 

Then rub the soup through a wire sieve. 

Put it into the saucepan again, and, when boiling, shake 
into it the semolina and cook for fifteen minutes, stirring 
occasionally. 

When the semolina is cooked the soup is ready. 

If this soup is used for children, water may be sub- 
stituted for the meat liquor if the latter is not available. 

Bonne Femme Soup. 

Ingredients — 2 lettuces. 

2 leaves of sorrel. 

4 sprigs of taragon. 
2 sprigs of chervil. 
Half a cucumber. 

2 pints of white stock. 

The yolks of 3 eggs. 

J of a pint of cream. 

The crust of a French roll. 

i oz. of butter. 
Method. — Wash the lettuce, taragons, and chervil well, 
and shred them finely. 

Peel the cucumber, and shred it also finely. 
Melt the butter, and gently saute the vegetables in it 
for five minutes, taking care they do not discolour. 



218 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Boil the stock in another saucepan, and, when boiling, 
pour it on to the vegetables. 

Simmer gently until the vegetables are quite tender. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs with the cream, and when 
the stock has cooled a little strain them through a hair 
sieve into it. 

Put the stewpan by the fire, and stir until the eggs 
thicken, taking care that the stock does not boil, as that 
would curdle them. 

Add pepper and salt to taste, and the soup is ready. 

The crust of the French roll should be served in the 
soup ; it should be baked in the oven and then cut into 
fancy shapes. 

Turnip Soup. 

Ingredients — 1 quart of stock, or the boilings from 
mutton. 
2 lb. of turnips. 

1 large onion. 

\ pint of cream, or good milk. 

2 large slices of bread. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 

Method. — Put the bread to soak in a little cold stock. 

Pare the turnips and onions, and cut them in pieces. 

Boil them gently in the stock, adding (when well soakedj 
the bread. 

When the turnips are cooked, rub the soup through a 
wire sieve. 

Put it again into the saucepan. 

Add to it the cream or milk, pepper and salt to taste ; 
and let it well boil up. 

Serve with fried or toasted croutons of bread. 



Rabbit Soup. 

Ingredients — 1 large rabbit. 

2 quarts of water. 



soups. 219 

J pint of milk or cream. 
2 good- sized onions. 

Method. — Cut the rabbit into joints. 

Put them in a stewpan with the onions sliced and the 
water. 

Stew very gently for three hours. 

Then strain the stock and remove the fat. 

Put it into a clean stewpan and add a thickening of 
flour, taking one ounce of flour to every pint of soup. 

Stir and cook well. 

Add the milk or cream and boil it in the soup. 

Season with pepper and salt to taste, and serve with 
fried or toasted bread. 

It is an improvement to this soup to cook a ham-bone 
with the rabbit, or a slice of lean pork. 

Hare Soup. 

Ingredients — 1 hare. 

1 lb. of gravy beef. 

1 carrot, 1 turnip, and 1 onion. 

1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram 

1 bay leaf. 

1 dozen peppercorns. 

1 blade of mace and 5 cloves. 

2 or 3 oz. of butter or dripping. 
7 pints of water. 

Method. — Cut the hare into joints, and the meat into 
pieces, and fry them in a stewpan in the butter or dripping. 

Afterwards fry the vegetables in the same fat. 

Then pour in the water, add the mace and pepper-corns, 
and simmer gently from four to five hours. 

Strain the stock and let it get cold. 

Eemove the fat perfectly, and put it into a clean stew- 
pan on the fire. 

When it boils stir in a thickening of flour, using one 
ounce of flour to every pint of soup. 



220 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Cook the flour well, and add a little colouring if neces- 
sary. 

Season to taste, and, just before serving, pour in two 
glasses of port wine. 

Some forcemeat balls should be served in the soup. 

Make them with veal forcemeat, mixed with the liver 
of the hare finely chopped, and bake them in the oven. 



Mulligatawny Soup. 

Ingredients — 1 rabbit or chicken. 

2 quarts of second stock. 
1 onion. 

1 apple. 

2 tablespoonfuls of curry powder. 
\ pint of cream. 

2 oz. of butter or dripping. 
A few drops of lemon juice. 

Method. — Cut the rabbit, or chicken, into joints, and 
fry them in the butter or dripping. 

Remove them when nicely browned, and fry the apple 
and onion. 

Then put the apple, onion, and meat into a stewpan, 
with the stock, which should be mixed with the curry 
powder. 

Simmer very gently for an hour and a half, until the 
meat is tender. 

Then remove the meat from the stock, and cut it into 
neat pieces, convenient for serving in the soup, removing 
all the bone. 

Thicken the soup with flour, using about one, ounce to 
every pint of stock. 

Boil the flour well in the stock, and then rub the soup 
through a wire sieve. 

Put it into a stewpan, add the cream, and let it boil in 
the soup. 



SOUPS. 221 

Put in the pieces of meat, and, just before serving, add 
a squeeze of lemon juice. 

Serve nicely boiled rice, with this soup (see Eice for 
Curry). 

Parsnip Soup. 

Ingredients — 2 quarts of stock. 

2 lb. of parsnips. 

If possible, J pint of cream. 

Pepper and salt to taste. 
Method. — Slice the parsnips and put them into boiling 
stock. 

Simmer them for one hour, or more, until quite tender. 

Then rub the soup through a wire sieve. 

Add the cream to it, and pepper and salt to taste. 

Put it into a clean stewpan. 

Boil up once more and it is ready. 

Serve with fried croutons of bread. 

Red Lentil Soup. 



Ingredients — 1 pint of Egyptian lentils. 
1 large carrot. 



3 onions. 

2 lb. of parsnips. 

1 sprig of parsley. 

2 or 3 large crusts of bread. 
2 quarts of water. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 

Method. — Wash the lentils well. 

Boil with the vegetables, cut in slices, and the bread, for 
two hours or more ; stirring occasionally when the lentils 
are nearly cooked, as they are apt to stick to the bottom of 
the saucepan and burn. 

Kub the soup through a wire sieve, adding pepper and 
salt to taste. 

Make it hot again, stirring all the time, and it is ready 
to serve. 



222 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Mock-Turtle Soup. 

Ingredients — Half a calf's head. 
3 oz. of butter. 
1 shalot. 

Half-a-dozen mushrooms. 
1 carrot. 

\ a head of celery. 
1 leek. 
1 onion. 
1 small turnip. 

1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 
1 bay leaf. 

1 blade of mace. 
5 cloves. 

3 oz. of flour. 

2 wineglasses of sherry. 
1 dozen forcemeat balls. 

4 quarts of water. 
\ lb. of ham. 

Pepper and salt to taste. 

Method, — Wash the calf's head thoroughly. 

Cut all the flesh from the bones and tie it in a 
cloth. 

Put it, with the bones and water, into a large saucepan 
and let it simmer gently, stirring occasionally for three 
and a half hours. 

Then take out the calf's head and strain the stock into 
a clean pan. 

Let it get cold, and then carefully remove all the fat. 

Then put the butter into a stewpan, and fry in it the 
ham and vegetables, cut into slices, with the herbs, mace, 
cloves, &c. 

When they are fried, put in the flour and fry till a light 
brown, stirring it to keep it from burning. 

Then pour in the stock and stir until it boils. 



SOUPS. 223 

Add pepper and salt to taste ; put it by the side of the 
fire to simmer for half an hour. 

Remove all scum, or fat, as it rises. 

Then strain the stock into another stewpan. 

Cut part of the calf s head into neat pieces and add it 
to the stock. 

Pour in the sherry and lemon juice, and add the force- 
meat balls. 

Let the soup just come to the boil, and it is ready for 
serving. The forcemeat balls should be made of veal 
stuffing, and should be either fried or baked. 

They should not be too large. 

It is better to make this soup the day before it is wanted. 

Pot-au-Feu. 

Ingredients — 4 lb. of sticking of beef, or 4 lb. of ox 
cheek without the bone. 

2 large carrots. 

1 head of celery. 

3 onions. 

2 turnips. 

3 sprigs of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 
3 cloves. 

6 quarts of water. 
2 oz. of crushed tapioca, or sago. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 
Method. — Tie the meat firmly into shape with string. 
Put it into a large saucepan with the water. 
When it boils, add a teaspoonful of salt. 
Simmer the meat gently for nearly two hours. 
Clean the vegetables thoroughly, tying the celery, 
parsnips, and carrots together. 

Add them, with the exception of the cabbage, to the 
meat, and simmer gently for two hours more. 

Then add the cabbage, cleaned and trimmed ; it should 
be cut in two, and tied together with string. 



224 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Simmer until it is tender, adding pepper and salt to 
taste. 

The meat is then served with the carrots, turnips, and 
parsnips, as a garnish, and a little of the liquor poured 
round for gravy. 

The cabbage is served in a vegetable dish. 

To make the soup, put two quarts of the liquor into a 
saucepan. When it boils sprinkle in the sago, or tapioca, 
and cook for fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally. 

Dr. Kitchener's Broth. 

Ingredients — 4 oz. of Scotch barley. 
4 oz. of sliced onions. 

2 oz. of dripping. 

3 oz. bacon. 

4 oz. oatmeal. 

5 quarts of the liquor from meat. 
Method. — Wash the barley, and soak it in water for two 

hours. 

Put the meat liquor on to boil. 

When boiling, add the barley and the onions. 

Let it boil gently for an hour and a half. 

Then put the dripping into another saucepan, and fry 
the bacon in it. 

Then add, by degrees, the oatmeal ; stir until it forms 
a paste. 

Then pour in the broth. 

Season with pepper and salt to taste, and set it by the 
side of the fire to simmer for thirty minutes ; the soup is 
then ready. 

Crowdie. 

Ingredients — 1 gallon of liquor from meat. 
% pint of oatmeal. 
1 onion. 
Pepper and salt. 



SOUPS. 225 

Method. — Put the liquor into a saucepan on the fire. 
Mix the oatmeal to a paste with cold water. 
Pour it into the liquor when boiling. 
Stir until it thickens. 

Add the onion, finely- chopped, and pepper and salt to 
taste. 

Boil gently, stirring occasionally, for half an hour. 



226 THE SKILFUL OOOK. 




BREAD AND CAKES. 

In making bread be careful that the yeast is good ; 
otherwise the bread may be heavy. The German and 
French yeast will do quite as well as the brewers', and are 
generally more easily procured. The French yeast is the 
closest and strongest, but, though less is required, bread 
made with it will take longer to rise than that made with 
German. The yeast may be tested by mixing it with a 
little sugar ; if it is good, it has the power of dissolving the 
sugar to a syrup. Everything made with yeast should be 
allowed a proper time to rise. A quartern loaf will gene- 
rally be ready to make up in about two hours after the 
dough is set, but the time of rising will vary according to 
circumstances — for example, in cold weather it may not 
rise so quickly as in hot. For making bread, warm the 
pan or tub the dough is to be mixed in, but do not make it 
hot. Take care that the flour is dry, and free from lumps. 
The water used must be warmed, but care must be taken 
that it is neither too hot nor too cold. A certain amount 
of warmth is necessary for the growth of the yeast ; but too 
great heat kills it. The water, therefore, should be lukewarm. 
When the dough is mixed, sprinkle the top with a little 
flour to prevent a crust forming ; the pan should then be 
covered with a cloth and placed on a chair in a warm 
place, free from draught. It may be placed with advantage 
before the oven or boiler, but should not be put directly in 
front of a fire. When the dough is exposed to too great a 
lie^t it gets moist and sticky, is very difficult to make 
up, a&d is heavy when baked. When the dough has risen 



BKEAD AND CAKES. 227 

sufficiently, it should be well kneaded, and then made up 
into loaves. These loaves are then set on floured tins to 
rise in a warm place for about twenty minutes before they 
are baked. The oven should be very hot for the first 
twenty minutes, and then very much moderated : a sharp 
heat is necessary at first to throw up the bread ; but the 
rest of the time the heat applied should be moderate. The 
same heat is [required in baking cakes : a sharp heat at 
first, to throw them up, and moderate afterwards, so that 
they may get cooked through without the crust burning. 
The sugar in cakes causes them to burn very quickly. It 
is, therefore, a wise precaution to line the tin, even for a 
plain cake, with foolscap paper. 

Currants used in cakes should be well washed and 
dried before they are used, and any stones removed from 
them. Sultanas should be rubbed in flour, and the stalks 
picked off. Raisins should be stoned, and cut in two or 
three pieces. 

To cream butter is to work it about in a basin with 
the hand, or wooden spoon, until it is the consistency of 
cream. 

The cake tins should be kept in a dry place, and before 
using should be well greased, especially at the bottom. 

A Quartern Loaf. 

Ingredients — 3^ lb. of flour. 

If pint of water. 
\ oz. of salt. 
1 oz. of German yeast. 
Method. — Put 3 lb. of flour into the pan. 
Make the water lukewarm, and mix it with the yeast. 
Make a hole in the middle of the flour, and mix in the 
water smoothly and gradually. 

Knead lightly for a minute or two. 
Sprinkle with a little flour, and set to rise in a warm 
place for about two hours. 

q 2 



228 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Then knead well for about a quarter of an hour, work- 
ing in the remainder of the flour. 

Make it into a loaf, and put it in or on a floured 
tin. 

Set it to rise for about twenty minutes, and then 
bake. 

The oven must be very hot for the first few minutes, 
and then the heat must be much lowered, that the bread 
may get well cooked through. 

Vienna Bread. 

Ingredients — 2 lb. of Vienna flour. 
2 oz. of butter. 
1 oz. of German yeast. 
1 pint of milk. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Method. — Eub the butter well into the flour, and add 
the salt. 

Make the milk tepid, and mix smoothly with the Ger- 
man yeast. 

Make a well in the middle of the flour, and stir in the 
milk smoothly. 

Knead very lightly for a minute, and then put the 
dough to rise in a warm place for two hours. 

When it has well risen, make it into rolls or fancy 
twists. 

Set them to rise on floured tins for about ten minutes. 

Then bake in a quick oven from ten to twenty minutes, 
according to their size. 

When nearly cooked, brush them with a little milk or 
white of egg to glaze them. 

Unfermented Bread. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of flour. 

2 heaped teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Enough water to mix a dough. 



BKEAD AND CAKES. 229 

Method. — Put the flour in a pan. 
Add the baking powder and mix up with the water. 
Make it into small loaves quickly, and bake in a quick 
oven for about half an hour. 



Milk Rolls. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of flour. 

2 oz. of butter. 

2 heaped teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Enough milk to mix to a dough. 
Method. — Bub the butter into the flour lightly. 
Add the baking powder, and mix with the milk. 
Make into small rolls as quickly as possible, and bake 
for a few minutes in a quick oven. 

Brush over with a little milk to glaze them. 



Pound Cake. 

Ingredients — 10 oz. of flour. 

8 oz. of butter. 

8 oz. of castor sugar. 

2 oz. of candied peel. 

I lb. of sultanas. 

4 large eggs. 

Grated rind of a lemon. 
Method. — Eub the flour and sugar through a sieve. 
Beat the butter to a cream in a basin. 
Mix in a little flour and sugar. 
Then a well-beaten egg. 
Next more flour, sugar, and another egg. 
Continue mixing in the same way until the flour, sugai% 
and eggs are all well blended together. 

Add the other ingredients, and put into a well-greased 
cake-tin lined with buttered paper. 
Bake for about two hours. 



230 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Queen Cakes. 

Ingredients — 6 oz. of flour. 
4 oz. of butter. 
4 oz. of sugar. 
4 eggs. 

A few currants. 
Grated rind of a lemon. 
Method. — Cream the butter. 

Mix in the flour, sugar, and eggs, according to direc- 
tions given in preceding recipe. 

Add the lemon rind, and partly fill small well-greased 
Queen-cake tins with the mixture. 

Sprinkle a few currants on the top of each. 
Bake in a moderately quick oven for about a quarter of 
an hour. 

Rock Cakes. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of flour. 
6 oz. of butter. 
6 oz. of castor sugar. 
\ lb. of currants. 
2 oz. of candied peel. 

1 teaspoonful of baking powder 

2 eggs. 

Grated rind of a lemon. 
Method. — Rub the butter into the flour. 
Add the sugar, currants, and other ingredients. 
Mix very stiffly with the eggs, well beaten. 
Put in rough heaps on a well-greased baking-sheet. 
Bake in a quick oven for a quarter of an hour. 

Plain Rock Cakes. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of flour. 

£ lb. of moist sugar. 
J lb. of currants. 



BREAD AND CAKES. 231 

^ lb. of butter, lard, or dripping. 

1 egg. 

A little milk. 
Method. — Bub the butter or dripping into the flour. 
Add the other dry ingredients. 

Mix stiffly with the egg, well beaten, and a little milk. 
Put in little rough heaps on a well-greased baking-tin. 
Bake in a quick oven for about a quarter of an hour. 

Plain Seed Cake. 

Ingredients — 10 oz. of flour. 

3 oz. of butter or clarified dripping. 

1 teaspoonful of caraway seeds. 
3 oz. of castor sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
1 egg. 

| gill of milk. 

J saltspoonful of salt. 
Method. — Rub the fat well into the flour. 
Add all the other dry ingredients. 
Mix with the egg and milk, well beaten. 
Bake in a well-greased cake-tin for about an hour. 

Sultana Cake. 

Ingredients — 10 oz. of flour. 
\ lb. butter. 
^ lb. of castor sugar. 
£ lb. of sultana raisins. 

1 oz. of candied peel. 

2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful of baking powder. 

\ gill of milk. 

Grated rind of a lemon. 
Method. — Rub the butter well into the flour. 
Add all the other dry ingredients,. 



232 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Mix with the milk and yolks of the eggs, well beaten 
together. 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and mix 
them in lightly. 

Put the mixture in a well-greased cake-tin. 

Bake for about one hour and a half. 

Plain Plum Cake. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of flour. 

£ lb. of dripping. 

J lb. of currants. 

J pint of milk. 

J lb. of sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Method. — Eub the dripping into the flour. 
Add the other dry ingredients. 
Mix with the milk. 

Bake in a well-greased cake-tin for about one hour and 
a quarter. 

Rice Cake. 

Ingredients — 8 oz. of ground rice. 
6 oz. of castor sugar. 
4 eggs. 

Grated rind of a lemon. 
Method. — Beat the eggs well with a whisk. 
Mix in gradually the castor sugar and rice, and add the 
lemon rind. 

Bake in a well-greased baking-tin in a quick oven for 
about one hour. 

Cornflour Cake. 

Ingredients — £ lb. of cornflour. 

\ lb. of castor sugar. 
2 oz. of butter. 

1 teaspoonful of baking powder. 

2 eggs. 



BEE AD AND CAKES. 233 

Method. — Beat the butter to a cream. 
Then mix in the sugar. 
Add the two eggs, and beat all well together. 
Lastly, stir in the cornflour and add the baking powder. 
Put the mixture into a well-greased cake-tin, and bake 
for about three-quarters of an hour. 

Scones. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of flour. 

2 oz. of castor sugar. 

3 oz. of butter. 
J pint of milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, or £ oz. 
of cream of tartar, and 

1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. 

Method. — Eub the butter mto the flour. 

Add the other dry ingredients. 

Mix lightly with the milk. 

Divide the dough into two pieces. 

Make each piece into a ball. 

Roll it out to about three-quarters of an inch in thick- 
ness. 

Cut into triangular- shaped pieces. 

Bake on a greased baking-tin for about twenty minutes. 

Brush them over with a little white of egg or milk to 
glaze them. 

Currant Cake. 

Ingredients — 10 oz. of flour. 
J lb. of currants. 
£ lb. of sugar. 

3 oz. of butter. 

1 egg. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
£ pint of milk. 

A little grated lemon rind. 



234 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Method. — Rub the butter into the flour until like fine 
bread-crumbs. 

Add the sugar and currants — the currants should be 
well washed and dried — also the baking powder and lemon 
rind. 

Mix with the beaten egg and milk. 

Bake it at once, in a greased cake-tin lined with paper, 
for one hour and a half. 



Luncheon Cake. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of flour. 

4 oz. of butter, lard, or dripping. 

\ lb. of sultanas. 

\ lb. of currants. 

6 oz. of sugar. 

2 oz. of candied peel. 

2 eggs. 

Rather less than a \ pint of milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

1 oz. of lump sugar. 

Grated lemon rind. 
Method. — Put the lump sugar in a saucepan and burn 
it brown. 

Pour in the milk and stir until it is coloured. 
Then strain it and let it get cold. 
Put the flour into a basin. 
Rub the butter lightly into it. 

Add the sultanas (well cleaned), and the rest of the 
dry ingredients. 

Mix with the eggs well beaten, and the milk. 
Put it into a well-greased tin, which should be lined 
with paper. 

Bake from one hour and a half to two hours. 



BKEAD AND CAKES. 235 



Gingerbread. 

Ingredients — 21b. of flour. 

2 lb. of treacle. 

\ lb. moist sugar. 

3 eggs. 

\ oz. of carbonate of soda. 
8 oz. of butter. 
2 oz. of ginger. 
\ a cup of water. 
2 oz. of candied peel. 
Method. — Put the flour, sugar, ginger, candied peel, and 
carbonate of soda into a basin. 

Warm the treacle, water, and butter in a saucepan. 
Mix with the dry ingredients and add the eggs, well 
beaten. 

Partly fill a well-greased Yorkshire-pudding tin. 
Smooth over with a knife dipped in hot water, and score 
with a knife. 

Bake in a moderate oven for about an hour and a half. 



Sponge Cake. 

Ingredients — 4 oz. of flour. 
5 eggs. 
4 oz. of castor sugar. 

Method. — Oil the cake-mould, and dust it over with 
castor sugar. 

Beat the eggs and sugar for about twenty minutes 
until they rise and are quite light ; this may be done over 
hot water, care being taken that the heat is not too great 
to cook the eggs. 

Dry and sift the flour, and stir it lightly in. 

Pour into the mould and bake in a moderate oven for 
about one hour. 



236 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Sponge Roll. 

Ingredients — 5 eggs. 

The weight of 4 eggs in castor sugar. 
Of 3 in flour. 
Some jam. 
Method. — Beat the eggs to a cream. 
Add the sugar and then the flour, lightly. 
Have a baking-tin ready greased with butter, and lined 
with greased paper. 

Pour in the mixture ; spread it over and bake it till a 
light fawn colour. 

Then turn it on to a cloth. 

Spread with the jam melted and roll up quickly. 

Seed Cake. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of flour. 
4 oz. of butter. 
6 oz. of castor sugar. 
J oz. of caraway seeds. 
£ pint of milk. 

1 teaspoonful of baking powder. 

2 eggs. 

Method. — Kub the butter into the flour. 
Add the castor sugar and seeds. 
Mix with the yolks and milk beaten together. 
Beat the whites stiffly and stir in lightly. 
Bake in a nicely prepared tin for about one hour and 
a half. 

Madeira Cake. 

Ingredients — 10 oz. of flour. 

10 oz. of lump sugar. 

£ lb. of butter. 

6 eggs. 

\ gill of water, 



BKEAD AND CAKES. 23? 

Method. — Boil the water and sugar to a syrup. 

Pour when hot, but not boiling, on to the eggs and 
beat over hot water until light. 

Melt the butter and stir it in very lightly with the 
flour. 

Oil a mould and dust it with castor sugar. 

Pour in the mixture, and bake from one hour and a half 
to two hours. 

Buns. 

Ingredients — 16 oz. of flour. 
■J oz. of yeast. 
J pint of milk. 
2 oz. of sugar. 
2 oz. of sultanas. 
2 oz. of butter. 
1 egg. 
Method. — Put ten ounces of the flour into a basin. 
Mix the yeast smoothly with the milk, which should be 
made tepid. 

Stir into the flour. 

Beat for five minutes, and set to rise in a warm place 
for about two hours. 

Then beat in the remainder of the flour, sultanas, sugar, 
butter, and the egg. 

Set to rise for about two hours more. 
Then form into buns. 

Place them on a floured tin, and let them rise for ten 
minutes. 

Bake in a very quick oven for about five minutes until 
nicely coloured. 

Boil half an ounce of sugar with half a gill of water, 
and brush the buns over with this to glaze them. 

Dough Cake. 

Ingredients — ^ quartern of dough. 
^ lb. of currants. 



238 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

\ lb. of moist sugar. 

\ lb. of clarified dripping. 
Method. — Put the dough into a basin. 
Beat in the dripping, sugar, and currants. 
These should be well washed and dried. 
Place in a greased tin, and set to rise for one hour. 
Bake in a moderate oven for two hours. 

Candied-peel Drops. 

Ingredients — \ lb. of flour. 

3 oz. of butter. 

3 oz. of candied peel. 

Grated rind of a lemon. 

1 egg. 

A little milk. 

One teaspoonful of baking powder. 

3 oz. of sugar. 
Method. — Eub the butter into the flour. 
Add the sugar, grated lemon rind, baking powder, and 
the candied peel chopped small. 

Mix with the egg, well beaten, and the milk. 
Put it in little heaps on a greased baking-tin. 
Bake in a quick oven for about fifteen minutes. 

Shrewsbury Cakes. 

Ingredients — \ lb. of butter. 

\ lb. of castor sugar. 

6 oz. of flour. 

1 egg. 
Method. — Cream the butter and sugar. 
Add to them the egg, well beaten. 
Then stir in the flour. 
Knead it to a dough. 

Pioll out, and cut into small round cakes with a cutter. 
Place them on a greased baking-sheet. 
Bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. 



BEE AD AND CAKES. 239 



Oatmeal Biscuits. 

Ingredients — 7 oz. of flour. 

3 oz. of oatmeal. 

3 oz. of castor sugar. 

3 oz. of lard, dripping, or butter. 

i teaspoonful of baking powder. 

1 egg. 

1 tablespoonful of water. 
Method. — Put the flour, oatmeal, sugar, and baking- 
powder into a basin. 

Mix them with the fat melted, and the egg beaten 
with the water. 

Knead lightly into a dough. 

Koll it out, and cut into rou|id cakes. 

Place them on a greased baking-tin. 

Bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. 

Shortbread. 

Ingredients — £ lb. of flour. 

1 oz. of castor sugar. 

2 oz. of butter. 

Method. — Put the flour and sugar into a basin. 
Melt the butter, and mix them with it. 
Knead lightly. 

Koll out, cut the paste into cakes with a knife, and 
bake for half an hour. 



Yorkshire Teacakes. 

—| lb. of flour. 
1J gill of milk. 
1 oz. of butter. 
1 egg. 
\ oz. of German yeast. 



240 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Method. — Put the flour into a basin, and rub the butter 
into it. 

Make the milk tepid, and blend it with the yeast. 

Strain it into the flour. 

Add the egg. 

Beat all well together for a few minutes. 

Knead lightly. 

Then divide the dough in two. 

Make each part into a ball, and put them in floured 
cake-tins. 

Put the cakes in a warm place to rise for one hour, and 
then bake them for about twenty minutes. 

Brush them over with a syrup of sugar and water to 
glaze them. 

Ginger Biscuits. 

Ingredients — \ lb. of flour. 

2 oz. of butter, lard, or dripping. 
\ oz. of ground ginger. 

2 oz. of castor sugar. 

1 egg, and a little milk. 

^ teaspoonful of baking powder. 

Method. — Kub the butter into the flour until it is like 
fine bread-crumbs. 

Add the sugar and baking powder, and mix with the 
egg, well beaten, and as much milk as necessary to make 
it bind. 

Roll out, and cut into small round cakes. 

Put them on a greased tin. 

Bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. 

Lemon-rock Cakes. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of flour. 

3 oz. of butter. 

5 oz. of castor sugar. 

Grated rind of one lemon and juice of two. 

1 egg- 



BREAD AND CAKES. 241 

A little milk. 

1 teaspoonml of baking powder. 
Method. — Eub the butter into the flour. 

Add the sugar, baking-powder, lemon rind, and juice. 
Mix with the egg, well beaten, and as much milk as 
necessary ; the mixture should be very stiff. 

Put it in little rough heaps on a greased baking-tin. 
Bake in a quick oven for about fifteen minutes. 

Soda Cakes. 

Ingredients — J lb. of flour. 

2 oz. of butter. 

3 oz. of sugar. 

1 oz. of candied peel. 

Grated rind of a lemon. 

1 whole egg. 

If necessary, a little milk. 

J a teaspoonml of carbonate soda. 
Method. — Kub the butter well into the flour. 
Add the sugar, peel, lemon rind, and soda. 
Mix with the egg, well beaten, and, if necessary, a little 
milk ; the mixture must be very stiff. 

Put it in little rough heaps on a greased baking-tin. 
Bake in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. 

Gingerbread Cakes. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of flour. 

6 oz. of butter, lard, or dripping. 

1 oz. of ground ginger. 

4 oz. of moist sugar. 

| lb. of treacle. 
Method. — Put the sugar, treacle, and fat into a sauce- 
pan, and melt them. 

Put the flour and ginger into a basin. 
Mix with the other ingredients. 
Roll out, and cut into small cakes. 



242 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Bake on a greased baking-tin, in a slow oven, for ten 
or fifteen minutes. 

Rice Buns. 

Ingredients — J lb. of ground rice. 

\ lb. of castor sugar. 

2 oz. of butter. 

1 egg. 

J a teaspoonful of baking powder. 

A little flavouring essence. 
Method. — Beat the butter to a cream with the sugar. 
Then add the eggs, well beaten, and stir in the ground 
rice. 

Partly fill little greased patty-pans with the mixture, 
and bake in a moderate oven for a quarter of an hour. 

Galettes. 

Ingredients— 1 lb. of Vienna flour. 

1 lb. of household flour. 

1 oz. of yeast. 

^ lb. of butter. 

6 eggs. 

\ a pint of milk. 

A little sugar. 
Method. — Make the milk tepid. 

Then mix it smoothly with the yeast, and stir it into 
the household flour. 
Knead it to a dough. 

Bub the butter into the other flour, and beat in the 
eggs well with the sugar. 

Then knead both doughs together. 
Put them to rise for about two hours. 
When nicely risen, make the dough into buns. 
Put them on a floured baking- sheet. 
Bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes. 
When nearly ready, brush over with a little white of 
egg to glaze them. 



243 



JELLIES AND CREAMS. 
To clear Jellies. 

Take a large saucepan, and see that it is perfectly clean. 
Put into it all the ingredients for the jelly, and the whites 
and shells of the eggs. The use of the whites of eggs is 
to clear the jelly ; the shells form a filter through which 
to strain it. Whisk all together over a quick fire until 
the jelly begins to simmer ; then immediately leave off 
stirring, and let it well boil up. The heat of the boil- 
ing jelly hardens the egg, which rises to the surface in 
the form of a thick scum, bringing all impurities with it. 
If the stirring were continued during the boiling it would 
prevent the scum rising properly, and the jelly would 
not clear. 

When the jelly has well boiled up, remove it from the 
fire and let it stand for a few minutes till a crust is formed. 

To strain it, a chair may be turned upside down, and a 
cloth tied firmly to its four legs. Any cloth, which is 
clean, and not too closely woven, will answer the purpose. 
Put a basin under the cloth, and pour some boiling water 
through it. This will make it hot, and ensure its being 
perfectly clean. Change the basin for a clean dry one, and 
pour the whole contents of the saucepan on to the cloth. 
The first runnings of the jelly will be cloudy, because the 
filter which the eggs make will not have settled in the 
cloth. As soon as the jelly runs slowly, and looks clear, 
put a clean basin under the cloth, and put the first run- 
nings through it again, very gently, that they may not 
disturb the filter of egg-shells. 

Strain the jelly in a warm place, out of draught. Two 
eggs are considered sufficient to clarify a quart of jelly, but 

r 2 



244 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

if the eggs are small it is wise to take a third. If there is 
not sufficient white of egg, the jelly will not clear. 

The jelly should be allowed to get nearly cold before it 
is put into the moulds. If it is put hot into metal moulds 
it is likely to become cloudy. 

To make Creams. 

To make a good cream, it is essential that the cream 
used should be double ; that is, a thick cream that will 
whip up to a stiff froth. Beat it well with a wire whisk 
until it will stand on the end of it without dropping. This 
must be done in a cool place, especially in summer time. 
Cream is liable to curdle, and turn to butter, if beaten 
in too warm a temperature. The gelatine must be added 
last of all. It should be stirred in thoroughly, but 
quickly ; it must not be too hot, or too cold, but just luke- 
warm. If too hot, it destroys the lightness of the cream ; 
if too cold, it does not mix thoroughly. Pour the cream 
into a mould as soon as the gelatine is mixed with it, as it 
begins to set directly. To turn a jelly or cream out of its 
mould, take a basin of hot water, as hot as the hand can 
bear, draw the mould quickly through it, letting the water 
quite cover it for a second. Wipe off all the moisture im- 
mediately with a dry cloth. Shake the tin gently, to be 
sure the contents are free. Lay the dish on the open side 
of the mould, quickly reverse it, and draw the mould care- 
fully away. 

Strawberry Cream. 

Ingredients — ^ pint of double cream. 

1 oz. of amber gelatine, or rather less 
than \ oz. of the opaque. 

2 tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. 
Some strawberries. 

\ pint of milk. 

A few drops of cochineal. 



JELLIES AND CREAMS. 245 

Method. — Soak the gelatine in the milk for about 
twenty minutes or more. 

Then dissolve it by stirring it in a saucepan over the 
fire. 

Kub sufficient strawberries through a hair sieve to make 
a quarter of a pint of puree. 

Beat up the cream with the sugar. 

Then add the puree of fruit, and a few drops of cochi- 
neal to colour it. 

Lastly stir in the melted gelatine. 

Pour the cream at once into a wetted mould. 

When quite set, dip it for a second or two into very hot 
water, and turn it on to a glass dish. 



Charlotte Russe. 

Ingredients — 1 dozen sponge fingers. 

1 oz. of glace cherries. 
\ pint of double cream. 

■J oz. of amber gelatine melted in a little 
milk, or less than £ oz. of the opaque. 

2 dessertspoonfuls of castor sugar. 

A few drops of essence of vanilla, or other 
flavouring. 

Method. — First put the gelatine to soak in a little milk. 

Then cut the cherries in halves, and place them in a 
circle round the bottom of a plain round tin, with the cut 
side uppermost. 

Divide the sponge fingers, lengthwise, without breaking 
them, and trim each one at the side, top, and bottom 
neatly. 

Then line the tin with them, placing them on the top 
of the cherries, with the brown side next the tin ; they 
should be put close together, and the last should serve as a 
wedge to keep the others in place. 

Beat up the cream stiffly with the sugar. 



246 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Add the vanilla flavouring and the melted gelatine. 
This must be neither too hot nor too cold. 

Stir it thoroughly, but quickly, into the cream, and 
pour at once into the prepared tin. 

When set, dip the bottom of the tin into hot water for 
a second or two, and turn it carefully on to a glass dish. 



Custard Cream. 

Ingredients — \ pint of double cream. 

3 tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. 

1 oz. of amber gelatine, or less than J of 

the opaque. 
1 whole egg. 
3 yolks. 

-I pint of hot milk. 

A few drops of vanilla or other essence. 
Method. — Put the gelatine to soak in a little milk. 
Then beat the eggs lightly and add them to the milk. 
Strain into a jug and add the sugar. 
Put the jug into a saucepan of boiling water, and stir 
until the custard coats the spoon ; care must be taken that 
it does not curdle. 

While the custard cools beat up the cream stiffly. 
Melt the gelatine, and add it to the custard. 
Flavour it, and, when sufficiently cooled, mix the cus- 
tard and cream thoroughly together. 
Pour at once into a wetted mould. 



Bohemian Cream. 

Ingredients — \ pint of sweet jelly of any kind. 

\ pint of double cream. 
Method. — Beat the cream stiffly. 
Mix with it the jelly, which should be melted, but cold. 
Pour into a wetted mould. 



JELLIES AND CEEAMS. 247 



Wine Jelly. 

Ingredients — 1 oz. packet of either Nelson's or Swin- 
boume's gelatine. 

1 pint of water. 

\ pint of sherry. 

J to J lb. of lump sugar, according to taste. 

The juice of two lemons. 

The rind of one. 

The whites and shells of 2 large eggs. 
Method. — Soak the gelatine in the water with the thin 
rind of a lemon for three quarters of an hour, if possible. 
Then add all the other ingredients. 
Clarify and strain [see To clear Jellies). 
When quite cold pour into a wetted mould. 

Calfs-foot Stock. 

■Ingredients — 2 calf's feet. 

4 pints of water. 

Method. — Cut each foot into four pieces. 

Blanch them by putting them in cold water and bring- 
ing them to the boil. 

Throw the water away, and well wash the feet. 

Put them into a saucepan, with four pints of water, 
and boil gently for five hours. 

Then strain the stock from the bones, and set it aside 
until the next day. 

The fat must then be carefully removed, or the stock 
will not clear. 

To turn this into Calfs-foot Jelly, add — 
Half a pint of white wine. 
The rind of 2 and the juice of 4 lemons. 
| lb. of lump sugar. 
The whites and shells of 4 eggs. 
Clarify and strain (see To clear Jellies). 



248 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Pineapple Jelly. 

Ingredients — 1 pineapple. 

1 oz. packet of gelatine. 

1 pint of water. 

J lb. of lump sugar. 

The thin rind of 1 lemon, and the juice 
of 2. 

The whites and shells of 2 large eggs. 
Method. — First soak the gelatine in the water. 
Cut up the pineapple and bruise it in a mortar. 
Add it, and all the other ingredients, to the gelatine. 
Then clarify {see To clear Jellies). 

Note. — The Grated Pineapple, sold in tins, is excellent for jellies 
or creams. 



Aspic Jelly. 

Ingredients — 1 oz. packet of gelatine. 

1 pint of good stock. 

\ pint of tar agon vinegar. 

J pint of sherry. 

A small carrot, turnip, and onion. 

A sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 

2 bay leaves. 

3 cloves. 

1 dozen peppercorns. 

A piece of celery. 

A blade of mace. 

A clove of garlic. 

1 shalot. 

The whites and shells of 2 large eggs. 

Salt to taste. 
Method. — Soak the gelatine in the stock. 
Then add all the other ingredients and clarify {see 
To clear Jellies). 



JELLIES AND CKEAMS. 249 



Claret Jelly. 

Ingredients — 1 oz. packet of gelatine. 

^ pint of water. 

1 pint of claret. 

J lb. of lump sugar. 

A few drops of cochineal. 
Method. — Soak the gelatine in the water. 
Add the sugar, and stir over the fire until dissolved. 
Pour in the wine, and colour with cochineal. 
Strain into a wetted mould. 

When firm, dip into hot water for a second or two, and 
turn on to a glass dish. 

Note. — This jelly is not clarified. Cake is usually served with 
claret jelly. 



Orange Jelly. 

Ingredients — 1 dozen oranges. 

1 lemon. 

2 pints of water. 

1 oz. packet and a half of Swinbourne's or 
Nelson's opaque gelatine (in summer 
two packets). 
\ lb. of lump sugar. 
Method. — Soak the gelatine in the water with the thin 
rind of one lemon and three oranges. 

Add the sugar ; stir over the fire until the gelatine is 
dissolved. 

Add the juice of the twelve oranges. 
Let the jelly boil up, and then strain into a wetted 
mould. 

When firm, dip into hot water for a second or two, 
and turn on to a glass dish. 

Note. — This jelly is not clarified. 



250 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Strawberry Jelly. 

Ingredients — 1 quart of strawberries. 
^ lb. of lump sugar. 
Juice of one lemon. 
\\ oz. of Swinbourne's or Nelson's opaque 

gelatine. 
\ pint of cold water. 
\ pint of boiling water. 
The whites and shells of 2 large eggs. 
Method. — Soak the gelatine in the cold water. 
Mash the strawberries to a pulp. 

Add them to the gelatine with the sugar and lemon 
juice. 

Pour the boiling water over. 
Then put all the ingredients into a saucepan. 
Add to them the whites and shells of the eggs, and 
clarify and strain (see To clear Jellies). 

Pour into a wetted mould, and set in a cool place until 
firm. 

To turn it out, dip the tin into very hot water for a 
second or two, and turn it carefully on to a glass dish. 

Orange Cream. 

Ingredients — 1 pint of double cream. 
4 oranges. 
4 oz. of sugar. 

1 oz. packet of gelatine. 

2 whole eggs. 
Yolks of 4 eggs. 
1 pint of milk. 

Method. — Soak the gelatine in a £ pint of milk with the 
thin rind of one orange. 

Strain the juice of the oranges into a cup. 
Beat the eggs, and yolks of eggs, with the milk. 
Strain into a jug, and add the sugar. 



JELLIES AND CKEAMS. 251 

Put the jug to stand in a saucepan of boiling water, and 
stir until the custard coats the spoon. 

Melt the gelatine and add it to the custard. 

Whip up the cream stiffly, and add to it the orange juice. 

When the custard is cool, beat it into the cream, and 
pour at once into a wetted mould. 

If liked, it may be put into a border mould, and served 
with whipped cream in the middle. 

Blancmange. 

Ingredients — 1 oz. packet of Swinbourne's isinglass. 

1 pint of milk. 

1 pint of cream. 

3 or 4 oz. castor sugar. 

Flavouring essence. 
Method. — Soak the isinglass in the milk ; add the sugar 
and stir over the fire until both are dissolved. 

Then pour in the cream ; stir occasionally until cold. 
Add the flavouring essence and pour it into a wetted 
mould. 

Note. — A blancmange may be made economically by using less 
cream and more milk, or using milk only. If it is not stirred until 
cold, the cream and milk will separate. 

Vanilla Cream. 

Make a thick cream as for Charlotte Russe, and flavour 
with vanilla. 

Gateau aux Pommes. 

Ingredients — 2 lb. apples. 

3 oz. moist sugar. 

1 lemon. 

\ oz. packet of Swinbourne's or Nelson's 

gelatine. 
\ pint of water. 
A few drops of cochineal. 



252 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Method. — Soak the gelatine in half the water. 

Wash and slice the apples. 

Put them in a stewpan with the sugar and thin lemon 
rind and juice and remainder of the water. 

Stew until soft, then rub through a hair sieve. 

Melt the gelatine ; mix it thoroughly with the apples. 

Colour with cochineal, and pour the mixture into a 
wetted mould. 

Note. — This sweet looks very nice when it is made in a border 
mould. It is then served with whipped cream or white of egg in the 
middle. 

Peaches, prunes, or any suitable fruit may be substituted for the 
apples. 

Compote of Peaches. 

Ingredients — 10 oz. of sugar. 

1 pint of water. 

1 dozen peaches. 

\ pint of whipped cream. 
Method. — Boil the sugar and water for ten minutes. 
Pare the peaches and simmer for about twenty minutes. 
Eemove carefully and place on a glass dish. 
Eeduce the syrup and pour over them. 
When cold, cover with whipped cream. 

Almond Bavarian Cream. 

Ingredients — 1 pint of double cream. 

\ lb. of sweet almonds. 

1 or 2 drops of essence of almonds. 

4 oz. of castor sugar. 

| of an ounce packet of gelatine. 

3 eggs. 

| of a pint of milk. 
Method. — Soak the gelatine in the milk. 
Blanch and pound the almonds, adding a few drops of 
orange-flower water to keep them from oiling. 



JELLIES AND CREAMS. 253 

Beat the eggs and milk lightly together, and strain into 
a jug. 

Add to them the sugar and almonds. 

Put the jug into a saucepan of boiling water, and stir 
until the custard coats the spoon. 

Melt the gelatine, and add it to the custard. 

Whip the cream to a stiff froth, and drop in the almond 
essence. 

When the custard is cool, stir it into the cream. 

Mix them well together, and pour into a wetted mould. 

Stone Cream. 

Ingredients — 1 pint of double cream. 

2 wineglasses of sherry. 

Juice of a lemon. 

J lb. of castor sugar. 

1 gill of milk. 

1 oz. of Nelson's or Swinbourne's opaque 
gelatine. 

A little almond flavouring. 
Method. — Soak the gelatine in the milk with the sugar. 
Beat the cream up stiffly. 

Melt the gelatine ; add to it the sherry, lemon juice, and 
flavouring. 

Stir it quickly into the beaten cream. 
Pour it into a wetted mould. 

When set, dip it into very hot water for a second, and 
turn it carefully on to a glass dish. 

Lemon Sponge. 

Ingredients — h oz. packet of gelatine. 
1 pint of cold water. 
J lb. of lump sugar. 
The thin rind and juice of two lemons. 
The whites of 3 eggs. 



254 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Method. — Soak the gelatine in the water with the rind 
of the lemon for one hour. 

Add the sugar and dissolve it over the fire. 

Stir and simmer it for a few minutes. 

Strain into a basin and add the lemon juice. 

When it begins to set, beat in the whites of the eggs, 
whipped to a very stiff froth. 

Whisk until the whole mixture is light and spongy. 

Then heap it on a glass dish. 

A little of it may be coloured a pale pink with cochi- 
neal ; and as a decoration, a few pistachio kernels, blanched 
and chopped, can be sprinkled over the sponge. 

Floating Island. 

Ingredients — A round sponge-cake. 

1 pint of custard (see Boiled Custard). 

Eed jam. 

The whites of two eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of castor sugar. 

Some chopped pistachio kernels. 

Some hundreds and thousands. 
Method. — Cut the cake horizontally in slices. 
Spread them with jam. 

Place them on each other in the form of the cake, and 
spread the top with jam. 

Put the cake on a glass dish, and pour the custard over. 
Whip the whites of the eggs stiffly with the sugar, and 
heap on the top of the cake. 

Decorate with chopped pistachios and hundreds and 
thousands. 

Maraschino Cream. 

Ingredients — 3 yolks of eggs. 
1 white. 
\ pint of milk. 
\ pint of whipped double cream. 



JELLIES AND CREAMS. 255 

2 tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. 

1 oz. of amber gelatine, or \ oz. of the 

opaque, melted in a little milk. 
1 small glass of maraschino. 
Method. — Make the eggs and milk into a custard [see 
Boiled Custard). 

Add to it the sugar and melted gelatine. 
When it has cooled, mix it with the cream. 
Add the maraschino and pour into a wetted mould pre- 
viously decorated with a little bright fruit. 

When set, dip into hot water for a second or two, and 
turn it on to a glass dish. 

Pistachio Cream. 

Ingredients — \ pint of whipped double cream. 

tj oz. of amber gelatine, or less than £ oz. 
of the opaque, melted in a little milk. 

1 oz. of castor sugar. 

2 oz. of pistachio kernels blanched. 
A few drops of vanilla. 

Method. — Pound the pistachios in a mortar, and rub 
them through a sieve. 

Then mix them with the cream. 

Add a few drops of vanilla, the sugar, and, last of all, 
the melted gelatine. 

Pour it into a wetted mould. 

When set, dip it into hot water for a second or two, 
and turn carefully on to a glass dish. 

Croquant of Oranges. 

Ingredients — 9 or 10 oranges. 

^ teacupful of melted sweet jelly. 

A few pistachio kernels, blanched and 

chopped. 
^ pint of whipped double cream. 



256 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

^ oz. of amber gelatine, or less than \ oz. 

of the opaque, melted in a little milk. 
2 oz. of castor sugar. 

Method. — Peel and divide six oranges into sections, and 
carefully remove the white skins. 

Dip each piece into the jelly, and line a plain round 
charlotte Eusse tin with them. 

Place them to form a star in the bottom of the mould, 
and fill up any spaces with the chopped pistachio kernels. 

Add the juice of three oranges to the whipped cream. 

Mix in the sugar, and add, last of all, the melted 
gelatine. 

Pour the cream into the tin. 

When set, dip the tin in hot water to loosen the pieces 
of orange, and then turn carefully on to a glass or silver 
dish. 

Chartreuse de Fruit. 

Ingredients — Various fruits, such as strawberries, green- 
gages, cherries, peaches, &c. 
Some strawberry or other cream. 
\ teacupful of sweet jelly, melted. 
Method. — Line a plain charlotte Eusse mould tastefully 
with slices of the different fruits, dipping each piece in the 
melted jelly. 

Then pour in a strawberry or any other cream {see 
Strawberry Cream). 

When set, dip the mould into very hot water for a 
second or two to loosen the fruit, and then turn them on 
to a glass or silver dish. 

Strawberry Charlotte. 

Ingredients — Some fine ripe strawberries. 

Some pistachio kernels, blanched and 

chopped. 
\ teacupful of melted sweet jelly. 
Some strawberry cream. 



JELLIES AND CKEAMS. 257 

Method. — Line a Charlotte Eusse mould tastefully with 
the strawberries cut in half, dipping them in the jelly, and 
laying them in the tin with the cut side downwards. 

Fill the spaces with the pistachios. 

When the strawberries are quite firm, pour in some 
strawberry cream (see Strawberry Cream). 

When set, dip into very hot water for a second or two 
to loosen the fruit, and turn on to a glass or silver dish. 

Tipsy Cake. 

Ingredients — 1 large sponge cake. 

1 wineglass of sherry. 

1 wineglass of brandy. 

1 pint custard [see Boiled Custard). 

Some blanched almonds. 
Method. — Put the cake on a glass dish. 
Soak it with the sherry and brandy. 
Pour over the custard, and stick blanched almonds well 
over it. 

Trifle. 

Ingredients — 1 Savoy cake. 

1 pint of double cream. 

1 pint of rich custard (see Boiled Custard). 

Some strawberry or other jam. 

1 wineglass of sherry. 

1 wineglass of brandy. 

^ lb. of macaroons. 

1 oz. of castor sugar. 

6 sponge cakes. 
Method. — Cut the cake into slices an inch thick. 
Lay them on the bottom of a glass dish. 
Spread .them with jam. 
Lay the macaroons on them. 
Cover them with sponge cakes. 

Soak them with the sherry and brandy, and cover with 
the custard. 

s 



258 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Whip the cream very stiffly with the sugar. 
Drain it on a sieve. 

Before serving, heap the whip on the top of the trifle. 
Decorate it with chopped pistachios, and hundreds and 
thousands. 

Apple Flummery. 

Ingredients — 2 lb. of apples. 

The rind and juice of a small lemon. 

5 oz. of sugar. 

J pint of water. 

^ oz. packet of Nelson's or Swinbourn's 

gelatine. 
\ pint of cream. 
Cochineal. 
Method. — Cut up the apples, and stew them with the 
sugar, lemon, and water, until tender. 
Eub them through a hair sieve. 

While the apples are cooking, soak the gelatine in the 
cream. 

Then stir over the fire until the gelatine is quite 
dissolved. 

Add the cream and gelatine to the apple pulp, and beat 
all well together. 

Colour with cochineal, and pour into a wetted mould. 
When firm, dip for a second or two into very hot water, 
and then turn on to a glass dish. 

Apple Cream. 

Ingredients — 2 lb. of apples. 
\ lb. of sugar. 
1 glass of port wine. 
The rind of a lemon. 
\ pint of water. 
J pint of cream or milk. 
Cochineal. 



JELLIES AND CKEAMS. 259 

Method. — Wash the apples, and cut them into pieces. 

Put them into a stewpan with the lemon rind, sugar, 
wine, and water. 

Stew gently until they are quite tender. 

Then rub them through a hair sieve, and colour with 
cochineal. 

Boil the cream or milk and add it to the apple pulp. 

Beat them thoroughly together, and serve when cold in 
a glass dish. 

Alpine Snow. 

Ingredients — 1 \ lb. of apples. 

3 oz. of castor sugar. 

J pint of water. 

The thin rind and juice of half a lemon. 

The whites of 3 eggs. 

Cochineal. 
Method. — Wash the apples and cut them in pieces. 
Put them in a stewpan with the water, sugar, lemon 
rind and juice. 

Stew gently until quite tender. 
Then rub through a hair sieve. 
Whip the whites of the eggs. 

When the apple pulp is quite cold, add them to it, and 
beat until the mixture is a stiff froth. 

Colour prettily with cochineal, and heap on a glass dish. 

Welsh Custard. 

Ingredients — 2 lb. of apples. 

The thin rind of a lemon. 
Juice of half a lemon. 
3 oz. of castor sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls of ground ginger. 

3 whole eggs. 

| pint of water. 
Method. — Wash and cut up the apples. 

g 2 



260 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Stew them until tender with the sugar, lemon rind and 
juice, ginger, and water. 

Eub them through a hair sieve (there should be about 
one pint of pulp if the stewing has been very gentle). 

Beat the eggs, and strain them into the apple pulp. 

Pour the custard into a jug. 

Put it to stand in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir 
until it thickens, taking care that it does not curdle. 

Stir occasionally while it is cooling, and serve in custard 
glasses or on a glass dish. 

Cheap Custard. 

Ingredients — 1 tablespoonful of cornflour. 

1 pint of milk. 
The yolks of 2 eggs. 

2 oz. of castor sugar. 
Vanilla or other flavouring. 

Method. — Put the milk and sugar on to boil. 

When boiling, stir in the cornflour, which should be 
mixed very smoothly with a little cold milk. 

Boil, stirring all the time, for ten minutes. 

Then remove from the fire, and, when it has cooled a 
little, beat in the yolks of the eggs. 

Stir again over the fire to cook the eggs, but take care 
they do not curdle. 

Flavour to taste, and when cold pour into custard 
glasses. 

A cheaper substitute for custard may be made by 
omitting the eggs. 

Arrowroot Custard. 

Ingredients — 1 pint of milk. 

1 tablespoonful of arrowroot. 

2 oz. of castor sugar. 
The yolks of 2 eggs. 
Vanilla or other flavouring. 



JELLIES AND CKEAMS. 261 

Method. — Boil the milk with the sugar. 

When boiling, pour in the arrowroot, mixed very 
smoothly with a little cold milk. 

Stir until it boils and thickens. 

Then remove it from the fire, beat in the yolks and stir 
until they thicken. 

Plain Trifle. 

Ingredients — A little red jam. 

5 sponge cakes. 

1 doz. ratafias. 

1 pint of milk. 

The white of an egg. 

3 eggs. . 

1 oz. of castor sugar. 
Method. — Boil the milk with the sugar. 
Beat the eggs, and stir the milk on to them. 
Strain into a jug. 

Place the jug in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir 
until the custard coats the spoon. 

Then let it cool, stirring occasionally. 
Cut the cakes in halves ; spread them with jam ; place 
them on a dish alternately with the ratafias. 

Pour the custard over them, and set aside until quite 
cold. Decorate with the white of egg beaten stiffly. 

Boiled Custard. 

Ingredients — f pint of new milk. 
Yolks of 5 eggs. 

3 dessertspoonfuls of castor sugar. 
A little flavouring of vanilla, lemon, or 
almond. 
Method. — Boil the milk with the sugar. 
Beat the yolks lightly. 

Pour the milk (not too hot) on them, stirring all the 
time. 



262 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Strain the custard into a jug, which must be placed in 
a saucepan of boiling water. 

Stir until it coats the spoon. 

Great care must be taken that the custard does not 
curdle ; it must be stirred occasionally while cooling. 

A cheaper custard may be made by substituting two whole eggs 
for the five yolks, or one whole egg and two yolks. 



263 



SOUFFLES AND OMELETS. 

The best cooks will sometimes fail in making soufflees, 
as their manufacture requires the very greatest care and 
attention. It is also necessary to be able to judge to a 
nicety the time they will take to cook, because, to be eaten 
in perfection, they should be served directly they are ready. 
In making a soufflee, be very careful to take exact measure 
of the different ingredients ; a little too much flour, or 
rather too little milk, may make a great difference in the 
lightness of it. The flour should be the best Vienna. 

Another point to be attended to is to whip up the whites 
of the eggs as stiffly as possible, and to mix them with the 
other ingredients very lightly. Bear in mind that the 
object in beating the whites of eggs is to introduce air into 
the soufflee ; and it is the expansion of the air when the 
soufflee is cooking which makes it light. If the whites are 
mixed heavily with the other ingredients, the air which has 
been whipped into them is beaten out again ; and conse- 
quently they fail to make the soufflee light. When the 
soufflee is firm in the middle, it is sufficiently cooked, and 
should be served with the greatest expedition, as it will 
begin to sink rapidly. An omelet soufflee, left in the oven 
two or three minutes over time, will be quite spoilt, and 
become tough and leathery. 

Steamed soufflees are turned out of the tins they are 
cooked in, and served with a sauce poured round them. 

Baked soufflees are served in the tins, which are slipped 
into a hot metal or silver case, or a napkin is folded round 
them. 



264 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Plain omelets are quickly made, and quickly spoiled. 
Some practice is required to make the plain omelet to per- 
fection, as the art consists in folding the omelet just at the 
right moment, before the eggs used in them are too much 
set. The omelet should not be firm throughout, like a 
pancake, but should be moist and succulent in the middle. 
A very sharp fire is essential, and the omelet should not 
take more than three minutes in the making. 



Steamed Soufflee. 



Ingredients — 1 oz. of butter. 
1 oz. of flour. 
\ pint of milk. 



2 dessertspoonfuls of castor sugar. 

Method. — Well grease a soufflee-tin with butter. 

Fold a half sheet of kitchen paper in three. 

Brush it over with melted butter, and fasten it round 
the top of the tin, letting it come nearly three inches 
above it. 

Melt the butter in a small stewpan. 

Mix in the flour smoothly. 

Add the milk, and stir and cook well. 

Mix in the sugar, and beat in the yolks of three of the 
eggs, one by one. 

Add a little flavouring essence. 

Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, and stir 
them in lightly. 

Put the mixture at once into the tin. 

Cover it with buttered paper, and steam carefully for 
half an hour. 

When done, it will be firm in the middle. 

Turn it quickly on to a hot dish, and serve at once, 
with wine sauce poured round it {see Sauces). 



SOUFELEES AND OMELETS. 265 



Cheese Fondu. 

Ingredients — 1 oz. of butter. 
\ oz. of flour. 
^ pint of milk. 

3 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese. 
3 eggs. 

A little pepper, salt, and Cayenne. 
Method. — Prepare the tin as for a steamed soufflee. 
Melt the butter in a small stewpan. 
Mix in the flour smoothly, add the milk, and stir and 
cook well. 

Add the seasoning, and beat in the yolks of two of the 
eggs. 

Then mix in the grated cheese. 

Beat the whites of the three eggs to a stiff froth, and 
stir them in lightly. 

Put the mixture at once into the tin, and bake for 
twenty-five or thirty minutes. 

When done, it will be firm in the middle. 
Serve in the tin, with a napkin folded round it. 

Omelet Soufflde. 

Ingredients — 2 yolks and 3 whites of eggs. 

1 dessertspoonful of castor sugar. 
A little flavouring essence. 

Method. — Beat the yolks in a basin with the sugar, and 
add the essence. 

Whip up the whites as stiffly as possible, and mix them 
lightly with the yolks. 

Pour the mixture into a well-greased omelet-pan, and 
put it into a brisk oven for about three minutes, until of a 
pale-brown colour. 

Turn it on to a hot dish. 

Fold it over and serve quickly. 



266 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

A Savoury Omelet Soufflee 

May be made by omitting the flavouring essence, and 
substituting pepper and salt for the sugar. The omelet 
should then be served with a rich gravy poured round it. 

Cheese Ramequins. 

Make a mixture as directed for Cheese Fondu. Partly 
fill little ramequin cases with it, and bake in a quick oven 
for a few minutes. 

Batter for Fritters (Kromesky). 

Ingredients — \ lb. of flour. 

1 tablespoonful of oiled butter or salad oil. 

1 gill of tepid water. 

The white of 1 egg, beaten to a stiff froth. 

If for sweet fritters, castor sugar to taste. 
Method. — Put the flour into a basin. 
Make a hole in the middle, and put in the oil. 
Stir smoothly, adding the water by degrees. 
Beat until quite smooth. 
Then add the beaten white, stirring it in lightly. 

Apple Fritters. 

Pare some nice apples. 

Cut them into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, 
and stamp out the core with a round cutter. 

Lay the rings in the batter, and cover them well with it. 

Lift them out with a skewer, and drop them into hot 
fat (see French Frying). 

When lightly browned on one side, turn them on to the 
other. 

Drain them on kitchen paper. 

Dish on a folded napkin, with castor sugar dusted over 
them. 



SOUFFLEES AND OMELETS. 26\ 



A Small Savoury Omelet. 

Ingredients — 2 or 3 eggs. 

1 dessertspoonful of finely-chopped parsley. 
1 oz. of butter. 
Pepper and salt. 

Method. — Break the eggs into a basin. 

Add to them the parsley, pepper, and salt. 

Melt the butter in a small omelet-pan. 

Beat the eggs very lightly, and pour them into the pan. 

Shake and stir the mixture vigorously until it begins 
to set. 

When some of the egg is set and the other still 
liquid, tilt the pan, and draw the egg quickly to the one 
side of it. 

Leave it there to set for two or three seconds ; then tilt 
the pan again and fold the omelet, quickly drawing it to 
the other side of the pan. 

As soon as the outside is set, turn it on a hot dish and 
serve immediately. 

To make an omelet successfully, a very quick fire is 
necessary ; an omelet should not take more than three 
minutes to cook. 

Larger omelets are made by using more eggs and butter 
and parsley in proportion. 

Chopped cooked ham and kidney may be added to a 
savoury omelet ; also mushrooms and shalots. The latter 
should be finely chopped, and fried in a little butter before 
they are used. A cheese omelet is made by adding grated 
Parmesan or other cheese to the mixture. 



268 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



INVALID COOKERY. 

Much attention should be paid to this branch of cookery. 
The recovery of many sick people depends, to a great ex- 
tent, on their being able to take a proper amount of nour- 
ishment . This they will not be likely to do, unless the 
food is well cooked, and nicely served. 

Everything, for an invalid, should be dressed plainly, 
and well cooked. Highly seasoned meat, rich gravies, 
sauces, puddings, &c, should be avoided. The digestive 
organs are weakened by illness, and should not be unduly 
taxed. All meals should be served punctually ; careless- 
ness in this respect has often been the cause of great 
exhaustion. A good nurse ought to watch her patients 
carefully, and never allow their strength to sink for want 
of nourishment at the right time. 

It is not wise to prepare too large a quantity of any- 
thing at one time ; an invalid's appetite is generally very 
variable. 

All fat should be carefully removed from beef-tea and 
broth before they are served. This can be best done when 
they are cold. 

Great care should be taken to make everything look as 
tempting as possible. The tray-cloths used, glass, silver, 
&c, should be spotlessly clean, and bright-looking. 

Raw -beef Tea. 

Ingredients — Equal quantities in weight of beef and 
cold water. 



INVALID COOKEKY. 269 

Method.-- Scrape the beef very finely, and remove the 
fat. 

Soak the beef in the water for about half an hour, 
moving it occasionally with a fork. 

When the juices of the meat are drawn into the water, 
and it has become a deep-red colour, it is ready for use and 
should be strained. 

This tea is better made from rump or beef steak. 

Do not make too much at one time. In hot weather 
two ounces or a quarter of a pound of meat will be quite 
sufficient. 

Be careful that the meat is perfectly sweet and good. 

Beef Tea. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of rump or beef steak. 
H pint of cold water. 

Method. — Cut the steak into small pieces, and put them 
into a jar with the water ; tie a piece of paper over the top. 

Put the jar to stand in a saucepan of boiling water for 
four hours. 

Pour the tea from the beef, and remove the fat when 
cold ; salt can be added to taste. 

Mutton Broth. 

Ingredients — 1 lb. of scrag end of neck of mutton. 
2 pints of water. 
1 tablespoonful of rice. 
Salt to taste. 
Method. — Cut up the mutton, and put it into a sauce- 
pan with the water. 

Simmer gently for four hours. 

Then strain away from the meat, and set on one side 
to cool. 

When quite cold carefully remove the fat, and put the 
broth into a clean saucepan. 



270 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Put it on the fire to boil, and, when boiling, throw in the 
rice, which should have been well washed. 

As soon as the rice is cooked, the broth is ready. 
Add salt and pepper to taste. 

Clear Barley-water. 

Ingredients — 2 oz. of pearl barley. 

A little thin lemon peel. 

1 pint of boiling water. 

Sugar to taste. 
Method. — Wash the barley, and put it into a jug with 
the lemon peel. 

Pour the boiling water over it, and add the sugar. 
Let it stand until cold, and then strain it. 

Thick Barley-water. 

Ingredients — 2 oz. of pearl barley. 
1 quart of water. 
A little thin lemon peel. 
Sugar to taste. 
Method. — Wash the barley, and put it into a saucepan 
with cold water. 

Boil for ten minutes. 

Then throw the water away, and wash the barley. This 
is to blanch it. If this were not done the barley water 
would have a dark-coloured, unpleasant appearance. 

Put it into a saucepan, with the qu.M't of water, and boil 
gently for two hours. 

Sweeten to taste, and then strain it. 

Rice Water. 

Ingredients — 2 oz. of rice. 

3 pints of water. 
1 inch of cinnamon. 
Sugar to taste. 



INVALID COOKERY. 271 

Method. — Wash the rice well, and throw it into three 
pints of boiling water, with the cinnamon. 
Boil gently for two hours. 
Sweeten to taste, and strain. 

Apple Water. 

Ingredients — 2 large apples. 

A little thin lemon peel. 

1 pint of boiling water. 

Sugar to taste. 
Method. — Peel and cut up the apples. 
Put them into a jug with the lemon peel and sugar. 
Pour over the boiling water, and cover close until cold ; 
then strain it. 

Lemonade. 

Ingredients — 2 lemons. 

4 lumps of sugar. 

1 pint of boiling water. 

Method. — Take the yellow part of the lemon peel, cut 
very thinly, from one of the lemons. 

Then remove the skin completely from them both. 

Cut them into slices, and remove the pips. 

Put the sliced lemon, thin peel, and sugar, into a jug ; 
pour over the boiling water. 

Cover, until cold, and then strain. 

A Cup of Arrowroot. 

Ingredients — h pint of milk. 

1 dessertspoonful of arrowroot. 
Castor sugar. 

Method. — Put the milk into a saucepan on the fire to 
boil. • 

Mix the arrowroot very smoothly with a little cold 
milk ; when the milk boils pour in the arrowroot, and stir 
until the milk has thickened. 

Add sugar to taste. 

For water arrowroot, substitute water for milk. 



272 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Arrowroot Pudding. 

Ingredients — Cup of arrowroot, made as in foregoing 
recipe. 
1 or 2 eggs. 

A little vanilla, or other flavouring. 
Method. — Beat the yolks one by one into the arrowroot, 
and add flavouring to taste. 

Beat the whites up stiffly, and stir them in lightly. 
Pour the mixture into a greased pie-dish. 
Bake for a few minutes, and serve as quickly as pos- 
sible. 

Treacle Posset. 

Ingredients — \ pint of milk. 

^ pint of treacle. 
Method. — Put the milk into a saucepan on the fire to 
boil. 

When boiling, pour in the treacle. 

This will curdle the milk. 

Let it boil up again, and then strain it. 

White-wine Whey. 

Ingredients — J pint of milk. 

1 wineglass of sherry. 
Sugar to taste. 
Method. — The same as in foregoing recipe. Sweeten 
to taste. 

Orangeade. 

Ingredients — 2 oranges. 

1 pint of boiling water. 

3 lumps of sugar. 
Method. — Take the rind thinly from half an orange. 
Put it into a jug. 

Peel the oranges, and slice them, removing the pips. 
Put them into the jug. 

Pour the boiling water over, add the sugar, and cover 
closely until cold ; then strain. 



INVALID COOKERY. 275 

Method. — Boil the bran in the water for ten minutes. 

Dissolve the gum and honey in it, and strain it through 

muslin. 

This is a remedy for hoarseness. 

Linseed Tea. 

Ingredients — 4 tablespoonfuls of linseed. 
1 quart of boiling water. 
6 lumps of sugar. 

1 lemon. 

Method. -Put the linseed and sugar into a jug, with 
the thin rind and juice of the lemon. 

Pour boiling water over. 

Let it stand, and then strain. 

If the tea is preferred thick, two tablespoonfuls of the 
linseed may be boiled in the water. 

Boiled Apple-water. 

Ingredients — 3 good sized apples. 

2 oz. of sugar. 

1 quart of water. 

A little thin lemon-rind. 
Method. — Wash the apples, and slice them. 
Put them, with the sugar and lemon rind, into the 
water. 

Boil gently for one hour. 

Then strain, and cover close until cold. 

Sole for an Invalid. 

Grease a baking-sheet with butter. 

Lay the sole on it. 

Cover with greased kitchen paper, and put it into a 
moderate oven for fifteen or twenty minutes, according to 
the size of the sole. 

If properly cooked, the sole will be as white and delicate 
as if it had been boiled. 

T 2 



276 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

It may be served with or without a plain white sauce. 
Whiting, plaice, smelts, &c, may be cooked in the 
same way. 

Chicken Fillets for an Invalid. 

Cut some nice little fillets from the breast of a chicken, 
and cook them according to the ' directions in preceding 
recipe. 

Sweetbreads plainly boiled. 

Soak the sweetbreads in cold water for two hours. 
Then put them in boiling water for six minutes. 
Soak them again in cold water for twenty minutes. 
Put them into boiling water or broth, and simmer them 
gently for thirty minutes or more, until quite tender. 
Serve with or without a plain white sauce. 



Other dishes suitable for the convalescent will be 
found under the following headings : — 
Sole a la Bechamel. 
Sole a la Maitre d'Hotel. 
Whiting Boiled. 
Boiled Chicken. 
Sweetbread a la Bechamel. 
Mutton Chop. 
Kice Pudding. 
Cornflower Pudding. 
Blancmange. 
Tapioca Pudding. 
Sago Pudding. 
Haricot Soup. 
Tapioca Soup. 
Tapioca Cream. 
Oyster Soup. 



277 



SUPPER DISHES AND SALADS. 
Ox Tongue. 

Put it in lukewarm water; simmer for about three 
hours, until very tender. A very dry tongue may take 
four hours' gentle simmering. If very salt or much dried, 
soak for twelve hours before cooking. 

When tender, remove the skin and cover with glaze or 
fine raspings. 

Galantine of Fowl. 

Ingredients — 1 fowl. 

H lb. of pork. 

H lb. of veal. 

Yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs. 

2 truffles. 
Method. — Bone the fowl, mince the pork and veal 
finely, and season vith pepper and salt. 

Fill the fowl with the stuffing, placing in the yolks and 
truffles. 

Shape the fowl nicely, and fasten it securely in a cloth 
Boil it according to directions for boiling meat. 
When cooked, remove the cloth and put in a clean one, 
fastening it as before. 

Put it under pressure (not too much) until it is cold. 
Kemove the cloth, glaze it, and garnish with aspic 

jelly. 



278 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Galantine of Veal. 

Breast of veal boned may be used instead of a fowl to 
make a galantine. Eoll it round the stuffing and prepare 
it according to directions in preceding recipe. 

Galantine of Turkey. 

This may be prepared like Galantine of Fowl, using 
larger proportions for the stuffing. 

Lobster Salad. 

Ingredients — 1 fine lobster. 
1 lettuce. 
1 endive. 

3 or 4 hard-boiled eggs. 
Some mayonnaise dressing. 
If possible, some aspic jelly. 
Method. — Remove the flesh from the body and claws of 
the lobster, and cut it in pieces. 

Let the lettuce be well washed and dried. 
Cut it up, and mix it with the lobster and some mayon- 
naise sauce. 

Put a border of chopped aspic on a dish. 
Heap the salad in the middle. 

Decorate the salad with pieces of endive and hard- 
boiled eggs cut in quarters. 

Miroton of Lobster. 

Ingredients — A lobster. 

1 lettuce. 

A small cupful of mayonnaise sauce. 

6 hard-boiled eggs. 

If possible, some aspic jelly. 

Endive. 
Method. — Cut the eggs at the bottom so that they will 
stand upright. 

Then cut them in quarters, lengthwise. 



SUPPEK DISHES AND SALADS. 279 

Dip the ends in a little aspic jelly, or melted gelatine, 
and place them close together, in the form of a large 
circle on a flat dish with the white part inside. 

Kemove the flesh from the body and claws of the 
lobster. 

Cut up the lettuce, and mix it with the lobster and 
mayonnaise. 

Heap the salad in the middle of the crown of eggs. 

Decorate it with endive, and put a border of aspic 
jelly round it. 

Chicken Salad. 

Ingredients — A cold chicken. 

Some celery. 

A lettuce. 

Endive. 

Beetroot. 

A small cupful of mayonnaise sauce. 

2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs. 
Method. — Remove the skin of the chicken, and cut it 
into dice. 

Cut up the celery into half-inch lengths, taking half as 
much celery as chicken. 

Cut up the lettuce, and mix the chicken, celery, and 
lettuce together with the mayonnaise. 

Put them into a salad-bowl, or heap on a dish. 
Decorate with endive, beetroot, and hard-boiled eggs. 

Mayonnaise of Salmon. 

Ingredients — Some cold dressed salmon. 

A lettuce. 

Endive. 

Some hard-boiled eggs. 

A small cupful of mayonnaise sauce. 

Some chopped aspic. 
Method. — Break the salmon into flakes, removing the 
bones. 



280 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Cut up the lettuce, and mix the salad with the mayon- 
naise sauce. 

Heap it lightly on a dish. 

Decorate prettily with endive, and put some hard-boiled 
eggs, cut into quarters, round it ; also, if liked, a border of 
aspic jelly. 

Oyster Salad. 

Ingredients — 1 tin of oysters. 

1 crisp lettuce. 

1 head of celery. 

A little mayonnaise or salad-dressing. 
Method. — Wash the lettuce, and cut it coarsely. 
Wash, and cut the celery into one-inch lengths. 
Trim the oysters, and mix them with the salad. 
Put the mixture into a salad-bowl, and pour over the 
mayonnaise or dressing. 

Celery Salad. 

Ingredients — 2 heads of celery. 

1 beetroot. 

A plain salad-dressing. 
Method. — Wash the celery, and cut it into half-inch 
lengths. 

Put them in a salad-bowl, and pour the dressing over. 
Garnish with a border of beetroot. 

Tomato Salad. 

Ingredients — A few ripe tomatoes. 

Equal quantities of oil and vinegar. 
1 dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. 
Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Slice the tomatoes and lay them on a glass 
dish. 

Sprinkle them with the parsley. 

Mix the oil and vinegar with pepper and salt, and pour 
over them* 



SUPPEK DISHES AND SALADS. 281 



Cauliflower Salad. 

Ingredients — 1 boiled cauliflower. 

A little mayonnaise or salad-dressing. 

Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Divide the cauliflower into tufts, and remove 
the green leaves. 

Place them on a dish, and pour the dressing over them. 
Garnish with beetroot. 

Potato Salad. 

Ingredients — Some boiled potatoes. 

1 boiled onion. 

Some plain salad-dressing. 
Method. — Slice the potatoes and onion thinly. 
Lay them on a dish, and pour the dressing over. 
If preferred, the onion may be omitted. 

Haricot Salad. 

Ingredients— Some nicely cooked haricot beans. 

1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley. 

Equal quantities of oil and vinegar. 

Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Lay the beans in a dish. 
Sprinkle them with the parsley. 

Mix the oil and vinegar with the pepper and salt, and 
pour over them. 

Lentil Salad. 

Ingredients — Some boiled lentils. 

A little chopped parsley. 

Equal quantities of oil and vinegar. 

Pepper and salt. 
Method.— Lay the lentils in a dish. 
Sprinkle them with the chopped parsley. 



282 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Mix the oil and vinegar with the pepper and salt, and 
pour over them. 

Mixed Salad. 

Ingredients — Equal quantities of boiled potato, carrot, 
turnip, and beetroot. 
Equal quantities of oil and vinegar. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 
Method. — Cut the vegetables into small dice. 
Place them in a salad bowl. 

Mix the oil and vinegar with the pepper and salt, and 
pour over them. 

Spring Salad. 

Ingredients — 1 lettuce. 

Some mustard and cress. 
Endive. 

Hard-boiled eggs. 
Beetroot. 
Watercress. 

Some mayonnaise or salad-dressing. 
Method. — Wash the vegetables well ; put them in a 
draught to dry them quickly. 

Then cut them rather coarsely. 
Put them into a salad-bowl. 

Pour over the dressing, and garnish with hard-boiled 
eggs and beetroot. 

For a more elaborate salad, put the vegetables into a 
glass or silver dish, heaping them high in the centre. 

Decorate with sprigs of endive, placing a large tuft at 
the top. 

Bound the base place the hard-boiled eggs, cut in 
quarters, alternately with slices of beetroot. 

Finish off with a border of chopped aspic jelly. 



283 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES. 
Cheese Pates. 

Ingredients — Some stale bread. 

^ tablespoonful of hot water. 
4 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. 
1 oz. of butter. 
A few bread-crumbs. 
Pepper and salt. 
A little cayenne. 
A few browned bread-crumbs. 
The yolk of an egg. 
Method. — Cut the bread in slices of one inch in thick- 
ness. 

Stamp into rounds with a circular pastry- cutter ; scoop 
out the inside, making little nests of them. 

Fry in hot fat [see French Frying) ; drain them on 
kitchen paper. 

Put them inside the oven to keep hot. 
Put the butter and water into a saucepan on the fire to 
boil. 

When boiling, stir in sufficient crumbs to make the 
mixture stiff. 

Beat in the yolk, add pepper, salt, and cayenne ; and 
stir in the cheese. 

Pile the mixture on the cases ; sprinkle a few browned 
crumbs over them and be careful to serve quite hot. 



284 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Welsh Rare-bit. 

Ingredients — Some slices of bread about half an inch 
in thickness. 

Some slices of cheese. 

A little butter. 

The yolk of an egg. 

Pepper and salt. 

A little cayenne. 
Method. — Toast the bread and keep it quite hot. 
Cut the cheese into very thin pieces. 
Put it in a saucepan with the butter ; pepper and salt 
to taste. 

Stir until it has melted, then mix in the yolk. 
Spread it on the toast, and brown before the fire. 

Toasted Cheese. 

Ingredients — Some slices of very hot toast. 
Some slices of cheese. 
Mustard, pepper and salt. 
Method. — Toast the cheese nicely, and lay it quickly on 
hot toast. 

Spread a little mustard thinly over it, with pepper and 
salt, and serve very hot. 

Cheese Pudding. 

Ingredients — 3 oz. of bread-crumbs. 

1 pint of milk. 

£ lb. of grated cheese. 

3 eggs. 

1 oz. of butter. 

Pepper and salt. 

A little cayenne. 
Metlwd. — Put the crumbs into a basin. 
Boil the milk ; pour it over them, and let them soak. 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES. 285 

Then add the yolks of the three eggs, the grated cheese, 
and seasoning. 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and stir 
them in lightly. 

Pour the mixture into a greased pie -dish, and bake in 
a quick oven until well thrown up and brown. 

Macaroni and Cheese. 

Ingredients — J lb. of macaroni. 

2 oz. of grated cheese. 
\ pint of milk. 
1 oz. of butter. 
\ oz. of flour. 
Pepper and salt. 
A little cayenne. 
Method. — Break the macaroni into small pieces, and 
boil in a quart of water for thirty minutes or more until 
the macaroni is tender. 

Then strain away the water. 
Melt the butter in a stewpan. 
Mix in the flour smoothly. 
Pour in the milk, stir, and boil well. 
Then put in the macaroni, seasoning, and half the 
cheese. 

Put the mixture into a greased pie -dish. 
Sprinkle the remainder of the cheese over it, and bake 
in a quick oven until brown. 

Macaroni Stewed in Milk. 

Ingredients — J lb. of macaroni. 
1 pint of milk. 

Method. — Break the macaroni, and boil it in one quart 
of water for thirty minutes. 

Then strain away the water, and pour in the milk. 

Stew gently, stirring occasionally for thirty minutes. 

This may be eaten with jam, sugar, treacle, stewed 
fruit, &c. 



286 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



Macaroni Stewed in Stock. 

Prepare according to directions in the preceding recipe, 
using stock instead of milk. 

Macaroni is very good plainly boiled and served as a 
vegetable with roasted or stewed meat. 

Savoury Rice. 

+< ? — 1 onion. 

2 oz. of rice. 

nt of boilings from meat. 
pper and salt. 
Met lii, the onion until tender, then chop it 

finely. 

Wash the rice, and boil it in the meat liquor with the 
chopped onion until tender. 
Add pepper and salt to taste. 

Cheese Sandwiches. 

Ingredients — £ lb. of grated cheese. 

The yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs. 
4 slices of buttered bread. 
1 oz. of butter. 
Pepper and salt. 
A little cayenne. 
Method. — Beat the yolks well with the butter ; add the 
cheese and seasoning. Spread the mixture on the two 
pieces of buttered bread, and place the others over. 

Rice Stewed with Cheese. 

Ingredients — \ lb. of rice. 

2J pints of water. 
1 pint of milk. 



0, 289 



Macedoine of Vegetables. 

Cut carrots and turnips into fancy shapes with a dry 
cutter, boil them separately, cooking the turnips five 
minutes and the carrots fifteen. Mix them with nicely 
boiled green peas and French beans. In the winter Moir's 
Macedoine of Cooked Vegetables, sold in tins, will be found 
very convenient. 

Pickle for Meat. 

Ingredients — H lb. of salt. 

6 oz. of brown sugar. 

1 oz. of saltpetre, 

1 gallon of water. 
Method. — Put the salt, sugar, and saltpetre into a large 
saucepan with the water. 

Put it on the fire, bring it to the boil, and let it boil for 
five minutes. 

It must be kept well skimmed. 

Strain it into a large tub or basin. 

When the pickle is quite cold, meat can be put into it. 

Fried Parsley. 

Choose nice green parsley, wash and dry it, and pick it 
from the stalk ; put it into a wire spoon or basket, and fry 
in hot fat (see French Frying). It must be removed directly 
it is crisp or it will discolour ; drain it on kitchen paper, and 
sprinkle it with salt. Parsley that has been frozen will 
turn black in frying. 

Rendering down Fat. 

Ingredients — 4 lb. of any fat, cooked or uncooked. 
Method. — Cut the fat into small pieces. 
Put it into a large saucepan and cover with water. 
Boil for one hour with the lid on the saucepan, that 
the steam may whiten the fat. 

u 



290 . ful ccoi: 

Then remove the lid, and boil steadily until the water 
has evaporated, and the fat melted out of the pieces. 

Stir occasionally to prevent the fat sticking to the 
bottom of the saucepan and burning. f » • ^ 

When the fat is ready, let it pool a little, and then 
strain it. _ 

The pieces should be well pressed to squeeze out all 
the fat. - * 

This fat may be used for frying, or plain cakes and 
pastry. 

The quantity given is sufficient for French Frying. 

To clarify Dripping. 

Melt the dripping and pour it into cold water. 
When cold, scrape off the sediment which will be 
found at the bottom. 

To clarify Butter. 

Boil the butter, and remove the curd as it rises. 

To blanch Almonds and Pistachio Kernels. 

Put them into cold water, and bring it to boiling point. 
Then remove their skins. 

Almonds should afterwards be thrown into cold water 
to preserve their colour. 



291 



HOW TO USE UP FRAGMENTS. 
Scraps of Bread. 

These may be used for puddings, or dried aiid powdered 
for crumbs ; they can also be used to thicken soup. 



Cold Potatoes. 

These may be mashed and baked in a pie-dish, or made 
into balls and fried or baked ; they may also be sliced and 
made into French salad, or used to thicken soup. 

Scraps of Meat. 

If there are not sufficient to re-cook for a made dish of 
any kind, put them into the stock-pot. 

Fat, cooked or uncooked. 

This can be cut in pieces and rendered down (see 
Rendering down Fat). It can be used for frying, plain 
pastry, and cakes. 

Fat Skimmings from the Stock-pot. 

This is excellent to fry cutlets, &c, in, andean be used 
instead of butter. 

Dripping. 

Clarify it and use it for frying, plain cakes, and pastry. 

u 2 



292 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

I Scraps of Cheese. 

Grate them, and use for Welsh rare-bit, macaroni cheese, 
cheese sandwiches, pates, &c. 

Cold Vegetables.- 

If any quantity, re-warm them, or make into French 
salads. Any scraps can be put into the stock-pot. 

Water in which Vegetables have been boiled. 

Use this, if possible, for vegetable soups, as it contains 
to a great extent the valuable salts of the vegetables. 

Boilings from Meats. 

These, if not too salt, can be used to make pea, lentil, 
and other vegetable soups. 



293 



FORCEMEATS. 
Veal Stuffing. 

Ingredients — 3 tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs. 

1 tablespoonful of finely-chopped suet. 
1 dessertspoonful of finely-chopped parsley. 
1 teaspoonful of dried and powdered thyme 

and marjoram. 
1 egg. 

Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Mix all the ingredients with the egg well 
beaten. 

A little grated lemon rind and juice improves the 
flavour. 

Sage-and-Onion Stuffing. 

Ingredients — 4 onions. 

J lb. of bread-crumbs. 
7 sage leaves. 
1 oz. of butter. 
Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Blanch the onions by putting them into cold 
water, and bringing it to the boil ; boil for five minutes, and 
then throw the water away. 

Einse the onions and put them into another saucepan 
of water, and boil for about one hour until they are quite 
tender ; five minutes before taking them up put in the sage 
leaves. 

Drain the onions and sage leaves, and chop them finely ; 
then mix them with the bread-crumbs, pepper and salt. 



294 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Quenelle Forcemeat. 

See Quenelles of Veal. 

Forcemeat Balls. 

These are made with veal stuffing. Shape it into 
balls and bake them in the oven. If they are served with 
hare, the liver is chopped and mixed with the forcemeat. 

Imitation Foie Gras. 

Ingredients — J- lb. of calf's liver. 
£ lb. of bacon. 

A piece of carrot, turnip, and onion. 
A sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. 
A bay leaf. 
Pepper and salt. 
Method. — Slice the liver, bacon, and vegetables. 
Put them into a frying-pan and cook (turning fre- 
quently) until the liver is quite tender. 

Care must be taken that the liver does not fry brown. 
Put the whole contents of the frying-pan into a mortar 
and pound well. Then rub the mixture through a hair 
sieve. 



295 



PRESERVES. 
Strawberry Jam. 

Ingredients — 8 lb. of strawberries. 

4 lb. of loaf sugar. 

Method. — Take the stalks from the strawberries and put 
them in a preserving pan. 

Stir and boil for thirty minutes on a moderate fire. 

The add the sugar broken into small lumps ; stir and 
boil for about thirty minutes longer, or until the jam 
stiffens. 

Eemove all the scum as it rises. 

Put the jam into pots and cover close. 

Raspberry Jam. 

Ingredients — 6 lb. of raspberries. 
3 lb. of loaf sugar. 

Method. — Remove the stalks from the raspberries and 
boil them over a moderate fire for fifteen minutes, stirring 
all the time. 

Add the sugar broken into lumps, and boil for about 
thirty minutes longer, or until the jam will set. 

Remove all the scum carefully. 

Put the jam into pots and cover close. 

Rhubarb Jam. 

Ingredients — 5 lb. of rhubarb. 

5 lb. of lump sugar. 

Method. — Peel and cut the rhubarb as for a tart, put it 



296 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

in the pan with the sugar, and boil gently at first, then 
more quickly, skimming frequently. 
When it will set it is ready. 

Red Gooseberry Jam. 

Ingredients — 6 lb. of gooseberries. 
31b. of lump sugar. 
Water. 

Method. — Take the heads and stalks from the goose- 
berries and put them in a pan, allowing a quarter of a pint 
of water to every pound of gooseberries. 

Put the gooseberries into a preserving-pan. 

Stir and boil for fifteen minutes. 

Then add the sugar. 

Continue stirring until the jam is set, skimming fre- 
quently. 

Put it into pots and cover close. 

Damson Jam. 

Ingredients — 5 lb. of damsons. 

3 1 lb. of lump sugar. 

Method. — Boil for thirty minutes. 

Then put in the sugar broken into small pieces, and 
boil and skim for about twenty minutes longer, or until the 
jam will set. 

Put into pots and cover close. 

Black-currant Jam. 

Ingredients — 5 lb. of black currants. 

3f lb. of lump sugar. 
Method. — Boil the fruit and sugar together until the 
jam will set, skimming all the time. 
Put into pots and cover close. 



297 



MENUS. 
I. 

Haricot soup. 



Boiled salmon, Hollandaise sauce. 



Entree. 
Chicken croquettes. 



Saddle of lamb, mint sauce, spinach, potatoes. 



Cabinet pudding, orange jelly. 



Cheese, &c. 



Dessert. 

II. 

Mock-hare soup. 



Boiled cod, egg sauce. 



Entree. 
Curried rabbit. 



Boast leg of mutton, currant jelly, cauliflower, potatoes. 



Marmalade pudding, general satisfaction. 



Cheese. 



Dessert. 



298 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

III. 

Celery soup. 



Boiled mackerel, melted butter. 

Entree. 
Curried chicken. 

Boiled leg of mutton, caper sauce, mashed turnips, 
potatoes. 



Ginger pudding, apple turnovers. 



Cheese, &c. 
Dessert. 

IV. 

Tapioca soup. 



Sole au gratin. 



Entree. 
Mushrooms and kidneys. 

Boast fowl, bacon, bread sauce, Brussels sprouts, potatoes. 

Pancakes, snow pudding, cheese cakes. 



Cheese, &c. 



Dessert. 



MENUS. 299 

V. 

Macaroni soup. 

Fried cutlets of cod, anchovy sauce. 

EntrSe. 
Minced meat with poached eggs. 

Braised breast of veal, cauliflower, potatoes. 



Marlborough pudding, jam roly-poly. 



Cheese, &c. 
Dessert. 

VI. 

Lentil soup. 



Boiled cod, egg sauce. 



Entree. 
Tomatoes stuffed with sausage-meat. 



Bibs of beef, horse-radish sauce, potatoes, spinach. 



Apple fritters, lemon pudding. 



Cheese, &c. 



Dessert. 



300 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

4 

VII. 

Haricot soup. 



Plaice filleted and fried, anchovy sauce. 



Entree. 
Croustards of minced meat. 



Eoast leg of mutton, red-currant jelly, potatoes, Brussels 
sprouts. Boiled fowl, egg sauce. 

Baked custard, sultana pudding, Normandy pippins. 



Cheese. 
Dessert. 

VIII. 

Celery soup. 



Boiled halibut, shrimp sauce. 

Entree. 
Bissoles. 



Sirloin of beef, horse-radish sauce, greens, potatoes. 



Tapioca pudding, jam tarts, raspberry pudding. 



Cheese. 



Dessert. 



MENUS. 301 

IX. 

Palestine soup. 



Fried whiting, thick white sauce. 



Entree. 
Curried eggs. 



Shoulder of mutton, onion sauce, cauliflower, potatoes. 
Boiled beef, young carrots. 



Blancmange, gooseberry fool, apple pudding. 



Cheese. 



Dessert. 

X. 

Mock-turtle soup. 



Boiled cod, lobster sauce. 

Entrees. 
Mutton cutlets a la macedoine. Tomatos farni. 



Eoast fillet of veal, boiled fowl, Bechamel sauce, 
asparagus, potatoes. 



Ducklings, green peas. 



Cheese cakes, chartreuse de fruit, lemon jelly. 



Cheese. 



Dessert. 



302 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

XI. 

Clear soup. 



Cod's head and shoulders, oyster sauce. Fried smelts. 



Entrees. 
Beef olives. Quenelles of veal. 



Saddle of mutton, red currant jelly, spinach, potatoes. 
Boiled turkey, celery sauce. 

Grouse. 



Plum pudding, mince pies, tipsy cake, stone cream, 
cheese ramequins. 



Cheese. 



Dessert. 

XII. 

Bonne femme soup. 



Boiled brill, anchovy sauce. 



Entrees. 
Podovies. Veal cutlets a la Talleyrand. 



Boiled leg of mutton, caper sauce, young carrots, Koast 
fowl and bacon, Brussels sprouts, potatoes. 



Goslings, green peas. 



Charlotte Busse, Viennoise pudding, apple fritters. 



Cheese. 
Dessert. 



MENUS. 303 



XIII. 

Calves'-tail soup. Palestine soup. 



Sole a la Kouennaise. Fried whiting. 



Entries. 

Mutton cutlets, tomato sauce. Eabbit a la Tartare. 



Sirloin of beef, horse-radish sauce, spinach, potatoes. 
Boiled turkey, white sauce, Brussels sprouts. 

Pheasants. 

Marmalade pudding, general satisfaction, almond cakes, 
vanilla cream, cheese straws. 



Cheese. 



Dessert. 

XIV. 

Mulligatawny. 



Cod, oyster sauce. Red mullets in cases. 



Entrees. 

Chicken tartlets. Fillets de boeuf, a la Bearnaise. Mutton 

cutlets a la macedoine. 



Saddle of mutton, red-currant jelly, potatoes, Brussels 
sprouts. Boiled turkey, celery sauce. Boiled tongue. 



304 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Pheasants. 



Apple amber pudding, plum pudding, stone cream, orange 
fritters, cheese ramequins. 

Cheese. 



Dessert. 



XV. 

Mock turtle. Clear soup. 



Turbot, Hollandaise sauce. Lobster cutlets. 

Entrees. 

Braised sweetbreads. Pigeons a l'ltalienne. Fillets of 

chicken. 



Saddle of lamb, mint sauce, asparagus, potatoes. Boiled 
fowls, bacon. Bechamel sauce, potato croquettes. 



Ducklings, green peas. 



Strawberry cream, Genoise pastry, cold cabinet pudding, 
claret jelly, cheese straws. 



Cheese. 



Dessert. 



MENUS. 305 



XVI. 



Potage a l'Americaine. 



Boiled turbot, lobster sauce. 

Entrees. 
Oyster patties. Fillets de bceuf a la Bearnais 

Boast leg of mutton, red-currant jelly, Brussels sprouts 
potatoes. Boiled fowl, bacon, celery sauce. 



Jugged hare. 



Gateau de cerise, croquant of oranges, boiled custards, 



Cheese. 



Dessert. 

XVII. 

Mock-turtle soup. Potato puree. 

Salmon, Hollandaise sauce, cucumber. Sole a la 
Bechamel. 

Entrees. 
Chicken a la Marengo. Braised sweetbreads. 



Saddle of lamb, mint sauce, peas, potatoes. Boiled fowl, 
egg sauce, boiled ham, potato croquettes, asparagus. 



306 THE SKILFUL COOK. 

Goslings, peas. 

Strawberry charlotte, good trifle, orange jelly, jam puffs, 

cheese d'Artois. 



Cheese. 



Dessert. 

XVIII. 

Julienne. Oyster soup. 

Turbot, lobster sauce. Sole a la Genoise. 



Entrees. 
Sweetbreads a la Bechamel. Mutton cutlets a la Rachel. 



Sirloin of beef, horse-radish sauce, asparagus, potatoes. 
Boiled leg of mutton, caper sauce, mashed turnips. 



Ducklings, peas. 



Charlotte Russe, pine-apple jelly, Normandy pippins, 
custards in glasses. 



Cheese. 



Dessert. 

XIX. 

Ox-tail soup. Tapioca cream. 

Boiled salmon, Tartare sauce. Sole a la maitre d'hotel. 



MENUS. 307 

Entrees. 

Chicken a la Marengo. Mutton cutlets a la Milanaise. 

Podovies. 



Roast fillet of veal, French beans, potatoes. Haunch of 
mutton, red currant jelly. 



Goslings, green peas. 



Pistachio cream, orange jelly, snow puddings, 
cheese d'Artois. 



Cheese. 



Dessert. 



X 2 



308 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



SUPPERS. 



Cold Supper. 12 People. 



One sirloin of beef. 
One roast turkey. 
One boiled ham. 
One lobster salad. 
One apple tart. 
Twelve cheese cakes. 
One blancmange. 
One jelly. 
Fruit. 
Cheese. 



Cold Supper. 12 People, 



One rabbit pie. 

One galantine of veal. 

One ox tongue. 

One lobster salad. 

One charlotte Kusse. 

One croquant of oranges. 

One small trifle. 

Two jellies. 

One dish of pastry. 

Cheese, &c. 

Fruit. 



SUPPERS. 309 



Cold Supper. 20 People. 

Eibs of beef rolled. 

Salmon coated with mayonnaise sauce. 

Cucumber. 

One pigeon pie. 

One veal-and-ham pie. 

One ox tongue. 

A stone cream. 

One tipsy cake. 

A dish of Genoise pastry. 

A pine -apple jelly. 

A compote of peaches. 

Strawberries and cream. 

A lemon jelly. 

Cheese and fruit. 



Cold Supper. 20 People. 

Eoast turkey. 

Boiled tongue. 

One pigeon pie. 

One mayonnaise of lobster garnished with aspic. 

One veal-and-ham pie. 

One large pine-apple jelly. 

One large blancmange. 

Jam puffs. 

Cheese cakes. 

Boiled custards. 

Normandy pippins. 

Gateau de cerise. 

Cakes. 

Biscuits. 

Fruit. 



310 THE SKILFUL COOK. 



High Tea for 12 People, for Lawn Tennis 
Parties, &c. 

One lobster mayonnaise. 

Two chickens, coated with thick white sauce. 

One veal-and-ham pie. 

One tongue. 

One apple amber pudding. 

Twelve boiled custards. 

Twelve custard- glasses filled with chopped jelly. 

One blancmange. 

Strawberries and cream. 

Thin bread and butter. 

Biscuits, cake, fruit. 

Tea, coffee. 



Supper for 50 People. Guests not seated. 

Ham, tongue, and beef sandwiches. 
Four quarts of blancmange, differently flavoured and 
decorated. 

Four quarts of jelly, differently flavoured and moulded. 

Two charlottes Russe. 

One large trifle. 

Two tipsy cakes. 

Three dishes of Genoise pastry in various forms. 

Two lemon sponges. 

Fruit. 



SUPPEES. 311 



Supper for 50 People. Guests not seated. 
Less expensive. 

Ham and beef sandwiches. 

Four quarts of blancmange, differently flavoured and 
decorated. 

Two quarts of apple gateau. 
Four jellies of different kinds. 
One large lemon-sponge. 
Two dishes of light pastry. 
Boiled custards. 
Normandy pippins. 
Two jaunemanges. 
Two tipsy cakes. 
Fruit. 



INDEX 



ALM 



BEE 



A LMOND cakes . 
J\. Almonds and 


146 


Beef, aitch-bone, 




round, thick and 


pistachio kernels, 




thin flank of . . 28 


to blanch . . . 


290 


— brisket of . . . 28 


Alpine snow . . . 


259 


stewed ... 41 


Apple cream . . . 


258 


— fillets of, a la 


— dumplings . . 


149 


Bearnaise . . 95 


— flummery . . . 


258 


— olives .... 102 


— fritters. . . . 


266 


— ribs of .... 28 


— tart 


143 


— scalloped ... 90 


— turnovers . . . 


149 


— sirloin of . . . 28 


— water .... 


271 


— steak pie . . . 138 


boiled . . . 


275 


- tea 269 


Arrowroot, a cup of 271 


raw .... 268 


— custard . . . 


260 


— and mushrooms 89 


Artichokes, Jeru- 




Beginners, hints to 


salem .... 


194 


15-18 


Asparagus . . . 


194 


Beverages .... 69 
Biscuits, ginger. . 240 
— oatmeal . . . 239 


"DACON .... 
-D — ■ and eggs . 


31 


Blancmange . . .251 


70 


Bloaters .... 80 


— fried .... 


70 


Boiling, rules for . 22 


— toasted . . . 


70 


Boilings from meats 292 


Baking, rules for . 


26 


Bran tea ... . 274 


Barley water, clear 


270 


Brawn 76 


thick . . . 


270 


Bread 226 


Batter for fritters 




— croutons of, for 


(Kromesky) . . 


266 


soup 288 


Beans, broad. . . 


197 


— crumbs . . . 288 


— French . . . 


193 


browned . . 288 


— haricot . . . 


195 


— crust, flaky . . 137 



CAK 

PAGE 

Bread, scraps of . 291 

— toasted, for soup 288 

— unfermented . . 228 

— Vienna . . .228 
Breakfast dishes . 69 
Breast of veal, 

braised .... 49 
Brill, boiled . . .112 
Broiling, rules for . 27 
Broth, Dr. Kitch- 
ener's .... 224 

— mutton . . .269 
Browned crumbs 

for game . . . 288 
Brussels sprouts . 192 
Bullock's heart . . 51 

gravy for . . 51 

Buns 237 

— rice 242 

Butter, to clarify . 290 



CABBAGE . . .196 

Cafe' au lait . 82 

Cake, cornflour . . 232 

— currant . . . 233 

— dough . . . .237 

— luncheon . . . 234 

— Madeira . . .236 

— plum, plain . . 232 

— pound . . . .229 

— rice 232 



314 



THE SKILFUL COOK. 



CAK 

Cake, seed 
plain 

— sponge . 

— sultana 

— tipsy . 
Cakes, gingerbread 

— lemon -rock . , 

— Queen . . . , 

— rock . . . . 
plain . . , 

— Shrewsbury . , 



Calf's-foot stock . 
Candied peel drops 
Carrots .... 
Cauliflower au gra- 

tin 

— to boil .... 

Celery 

Charlotte Eusse 
Chartreuse de fruit 
Chaud-froid chicken 109 



PAGE 

236 
231 
235 
231 
257 
241 
240 
230 
230 
230 
238 
241 
247 
238 
194 

199 
192 
196 
245 
256 



Cheese cakes 

— d'Artois . 

— fondu . . 

— pates . . 

— pudding . 

— ramequins 



146 
147 
265 

283 
284 
266 



rice stewed with 286 



— sandwiches . , 

— scraps of . . , 

— straws . . . , 

— toasted . . , 

— and macaroni , 
Chicken a la Car- 
dinal . . . , 

— a la Marengo 

— a la Tartare . . 

— croquettes . . 

— curried . . . 
fillets of . . 

— for an invalid . 
Children, food of . 
Chocolate . . . . 
Chop, broiled . . 

Cocoa 

Cod, boiled . . . 

— cutlets of . . . 
a la Genoise . 



286 
292 

148 
284 
285 

106 

106 

96 

94 

108 

105 

276 

11 

83 

47 

82 

113 

121 

121 



CUR 

PAGE 

Cod, cutlets of, a 
l'ltalienne. . . 121 

— fricassee . . . 122 

— salt 113 

— sounds, boiled . 122 
marinaded . 123 

— stuffed and 
baked .... 123 

— with tomatoes . 122 
Coffee . . . .81,82 
Cold beef olives . . 91 

— meat cookery . 84 

and macaroni 89 

curry of . . 85 

mayonnaise of 89 

pie . . . . 88 

with puree of 

tomatoes ... 87 

— potatoes . . . 291 

— vegetables . . 292 
Compote of peaches 252 
Cooking utensils 

and stoves, how 
to clean . . 19-21 
Cornish pasties . . 142 
Cream, almond Ba- 
varian .... 252 

— Bohemian . . 246 

— custard . . . 246 

— Maraschino . . 254 

— orange .... 250 

— pistachio . . . 255 

— stone .... 253 

— strawberry . . 244 

— vanilla . . . .251 
Creams and jellies 

243, 244 

— to make . . . 244 
Creme frite . . .156 
Croquant of oranges 255 
Croustards a la 

Beine .... 97 

— with mincemeat 74 
Crust, economical 

short .... 136 

— flaky .... 137 

— good short . . 136 

— plainer short . 136 
Curried fish . . .113 



FAT 

TAGI 

Curried rabbit . . 107 
Curry, rice for a . 202 
Custard, arrowroot 260 

— boiled .... 261 

— cheap .... 260 

— cream .... 246 

— savoury . . . 207 

— Welsh .... 259 
Cutlets, mutton, a 

la Macedoine . . 92 

a la Milanaise 108 

a la Kachel . 93 

— veal 104 

a l'ltalienne . 105 

a la Talley- 
rand 95 

with tomato 

sauce .... 102 



D 



OMESTIC eco- 
nomy, advan- 
tage of a know- 
ledge of, to women 1-5 



Dripping 

— to clarify 
Duck, roast 

— wild . . 
Ducklings . 



EELS, stewed . . 
Egg croustards 
Eggs and anchovy . 

— boiled . . 

— buttered . 

— in cases . 

— poached . 

— scalloped . 

— sur le plat 
Entrees . . 
Epigr amines . 



291 

290 

33 

37 

34 



132 

78 
79 
70 
78 
79 
71 
77 
77 
92 
93 



71AT, cooked or 
uncooked . .291 

- rendering down . 289 

- skimmings from 
the stock-pot . . 291 



INDEX. 



315 



FIS 



Fish, baked . 


PAGE 

. 112 


— cookery . . 

— croquettes 

— curried. . . 


. Ill 
. 124 
. 113 


— fried . . . 


. 112 


— pudding . . 

— to boil . . . 


. 125 
. Ill 



Floating island . . 254 
Foie gras, imitation 294 
Food and diet . . 9 
Foods, table of . . 8 
Forcemeat balls . 294 
Forcemeats . . . 293 
Fowl, boiled ... 38 

— galantine of . . 277 

— mayonnaise of . 104 

— roast .... 38 
Fragments, how to 

use up ... . 291 
Fried parsley . . 289 
Fritters .... 87 

— batter for (Kro- 
mesky) .... 266 

Frying, dry ... 26 

— French, or wet 24, 25 

— rules for . . . 24 



n ALETTES . . 242 
\J Game, rissoles 
of 109 

Gateaux aux 

pommes . . .251 

— de cerise . . . 157 
Genoise iced cakes 145 

— pastry .... 144 

— preserve cakes . 145 

— sandwiches . . 144 
Gingerbread . . .235 
Goose, mock . . 45, 46 

— roast .... 32 
Gooseberry fool . . 180 

— turnovers . . . 148 
Green peas . . . 192 
Grilling, rules for . 27 

Grouse 38 

Gruel 274 

Gurnets, baked . . 131 



KID 

PAGE 

HADDOCK. . . 113 
— broiled, 
dried 80 

— stuffed .... 120 

Hake 116 

Halibut .... 125 
Ham, how to cook a 30 
Hare, jugged ... 35 

— mock .... 42 

— roast .... 34 
Haricot mutton . . 42 

Hash 84 

Herrings, baked . . 114 
in vinegar . 115 

— red 80 

Housekeepers, hints 

to young ... 6 



TMITATION foie- 
X gras .... 294 
Invalid cookery . . 268 
— soup . . . .274 
Invalids, dishes suit- 
able for .... 276 
Irish stew .... 50 



JAM, black currant 296 
— damson . . 296 

— raspberry . . . 295 

— red gooseberry . 296 

— rhubarb . . .295 

— strawberry . . 295 
Jaunemange . . . 157 
Jelly, aspic . . . 248 

— claret . . . .249 

— orange .... 249 

— pineapple . . . 248 

— strawberry . . 250 

— wine .... 247 
Jellies . . . 243,244 

— to clear . . .243 
Joints . . . . 28, 31 



KEDGEREE . .114 
Kidneys, a la 
Tartare .... 73 



MUL 






PAGE 


Kidneys and mush 




rooms . . . . 


107 


— fried . . . . 


71 


— stewed . . . . 


72 


— stuffed . . . . 


72 


— toasted . . . . 


71 


T AMB, fore quar- 
±J ter of . . . 




29 


— leg of ... . 


29 


— loin, saddle, and 




shoulder of . . 


29 


Lemonade .... 


271 


Lemon sponge . . 


253 


Ling 


116 


Linseed tea . . . 


275 


Liver and bacon 


44 


Lobster cutlets . . 


128 


in aspic . . 


129 


— miroton of . . 


278 



MACARONI and 
cheese . . .285 

— stewed in milk . 285 

stock . . 286 

Macedoine of vege- 
tables .... 289 

Mackerel a la Nor- 

mande .... 119 
Mayonnaise of fowl 104 

— — salmon . . 279 
Meat, pickle for . . 289 

— scraps of . . . 291 
Menus . . . 297-307 
Milk rolls .... 229 
Mince a la Reine . 74 

— (with eggs) . . 85 

— pies 139 

Minced meat ... 84 
Mincemeat . . . 139 
Miscellaneous dishes 283 
Mock goose, or pig's 

fry ... . 45, 46 

— hare .... 42 
Mullets, red, a la 

Genoise .... 125 
a l'ltalienne . 126 



316 



THE SKILFUL COOK. 



MUD 

PAGE 

Mullets, red, in cases 126 

g. Mushroom pie . . 140 

ushrooms . . .197 

— boiled .... 79 

— stewett . . . .198 
Mutton cutlets a la 

Macedoine ... 92 

— — a la Rachel . 93 

— leg of . . . . 28 

— neck of ... 29 

— saddle of ... 29 

— shoulder of . . 29 
boned, stuffed, 

and rolled . . . 48 



ATORFOLK dump- 
Ill ling .... 167 



OATMEAL por- 
ridge. ... 69 
Odds and ends . . 288 
Omelet, savoury, a 
small . . . .267 

— soufflee . . .265 
— - — savoury . . 266 
Omelets . . 263, 264 
Onions, Spanish . 195 
Orangeade . . . 272 
Ox-cheek, stewed . 41 
Ox-tongue. . . . 277 
Oyster patties . .118 
Oysters, scalloped . 118 
a la Francaise 119 

PANCAKES . . 179 
Parsley, fried . 289 
Parsnips .... 195 
Partridges. ... 37 

— braised .... 39 

Pastry 133 

Patties 86 

• — oyster .... 118 

— salsify . . . .200 
Patty cases . . . 135 
Peaches, compote of 252 
Petit choux . . .149 
Pheasant, roast . . 37 



PUD 



PUD 



Pickle for meat . 


PAGE 

289 


Pudding, cabinet 


PAOE 

. 165 


Pie, mushroom . 


140 


plain cold 


. 185 


— pigeon . . . 


141 


— canary . . . 


. 164 


— rabbit . . . 


139 


— cheese . . . 


. 284 


— sea .... 


. 50 


— Christmas 


. 164 


— shepherd's 


. 86 


— cornflour . . 


. 186 


— veal and ham 


141 


— curate's . 


. 164 


Pigeons stewed s 


ii 


— currant . . 


. 185 


l'ltalienne . . 


96 


— custard . . 


. 170 


Pippins, stewed Nor 




— diplomatic . 


. 137 


mandy . . . 


287 


— economical bread 184 


Plaice ... 113 


, 124 


fig . . . 


. 184 


— fried fillets of 


124 


ginger . . 


. 184 


Podovies . . . 


110 


lemon . . 


. 185 


Porridge, hominy 


188 


— Eastern . . 


. 176 


— oatmeal . . 


69 


— Ellen's . . 


. 173 


— whole-meal . . 


69 


-fig ... • 


. 172 


Potato balls . . . 


202 


— fun .... 


. 169 


— croquettes . . 


200 


— ginger . . . 


. 171 


Potatoes, baked . 


192 


— general satisfac 




— cold 


291 


tion . . . 


. 162 


— flaked . . . 


202 


— gingerbread . 


. 183 


— fried .... 


198 


— good tapioca . 


. 174 


— mashed . . 


201 


— ground barley 


. 176 


— to boil . . . 


190 


— — rice . . . 


. 174 


— to steam . . 


191 


— hominy . . 


189 


— new, to cook . 


191 


— jam roly-poly 


170 


Pork, chine of . 


30 


— lemon . . . 


162 


— hand of . . 


30 


— light sultana 


169 


— leg of . . . 


30 


— macaroni 


176 


— spare rib of . 


30 


— Marlborough. 


163 


— pickled . . . 


31 


— marmalade . 


162 


Poultry and game 32-39 


— orange . . . 


155 


Preserves .... 


295 


— pearl barley . 


178 


Prune drink . . . 


273 


— pease . . . 


188 


Pudding, Albert 


177 


— plum . . . 


182 


— apple .... 


161 


— poor knight's 


180 


amber . . . 


160 


— Queen Victoria 


154 


— — charlotte . . 


158 


— railway . . 


179 


— apricot . . . 


180 


— raspberry . . 


161 


— arrowroot . . . 


272 


— ratafia . . . ? . 


175 


— auntie's . . . 


165 


— rice 


168 


— baked lemon . . 


178 


— sago .... 


167 


plum . . . 


181 


— scrap .... 


166 


— beef steak . . . 


152 


— semolina . . . 


168 


— bread and butter 


171 


— snow .... 


159 


cheese . . . 


167 


— spring .... 


183 


fruit . . . 


173 


— stale bread . 


181 


— brown bread . . 


187 


— steamed rice . . 


175 



INDEX. 



PUD 



udding, steamed 




semolina . . . 


177 


— suet 


153 


— sultana . . . 


153 


— sweet custard . 


170 


— Swiss .... 


186 


apple . . . 


168 


— tapioca . . . 


168 


— treacle .... 


182 


- — roly-poly . . 


170 


Viennoise . . . 


158 


welcome guest . 


156 


West of England 178 


Windsor . . . 


182 


— Yorkshire (01 




batter) . . . 


163 


Puddings, little 




batter . . . 


172 


Puff paste . . . 


134 


rough . . 


137 


Puffs, German . 


160 


rvUABTERNloaf,a 227 


\J Quenelle force 




meat .... 


. 294 


Quenelles of veal 


. 92 



RABBIT, boiled . 36 
— curried . . 107 

— pie 139 

— ragout of . . . 36 

— roast .... 35 

— stewed .... 36 
Rabbits a la Tartare 96 
Rhubarb fool . . 166 
Rice balls .... 172 

— bars .... 154 

— cakes .... 155 

— compote of . . 153 

— for a curry . . 202 

— milk .... 273 

— mould of . . . 167 

— savoury . . . 286 

— stewed with 

cheese . . .286 

— water .... 270 
Rissoles .... 87 



SAU 

PAGE 

Rissoles of game . 109 
Roast, savoury . . 48 
Roasting, rules for . 23 



SAGO gruel . . 
Salad, cauli 
flower 
celery . 

— chicken 

— haricot 

— lentil . 

— lobster . 

— mixed . 

— oyster . 

— potato . 

— spring . 

— tomato . 
Sauces . . 

— apple, No. 
No. 2 

— Bearnaise 

— Bechamel 

— bread . 

— brown . 

— celery . 

— economical 

mily . 

— egg . . 

— French 

— Genoise 

— German 

— glaze . 
cheap, 

meat 

— gravy for 

dishes 

— Hollandaise 

— horse-radish 



jam. . 
lobster . 
maitre d'hotel 



fa- 



for 



273 

281 

280 
279 
281 

281 

278 

282 

280 

281 

282 

280 

53 

65 

66 

68 

57 

62 

56 

60 

G2 
5(3 
GO 
57 
64 
07 

G7 



made 



— mayonnaise . . 

— melted butter, 

English . . 

— mint .... 

— onion .... 

— oyster .... 

— piquante . . . 



. 67 

. 58 

. 66 

. 65 
58,59 

. 54 

. 55 



SO 

Sauces, plain 

— port win 

wild du 

— reforme 

— shrimp 

— soubise 

— sweet . 
a nice 

— Tartare 

— tomato . 

— wine 

Salmon a la Tartare 116 

— boiled .... 113 

— pickled . . . 117 
Sausage rolls . . 142 
Sausages, baked . 73 

— fried .... 73 

— Oxford .... 73 
Savoury meat 

dishes ... 40 

Scones 233 

Scraps of bread . 291 

— cheese .... 292 

— meat .... 291 
Seakale . . . .197 
Sea pie .... 50 
Sheep's head . . 43 

— au gratin ... 44 

— moulded ... 75 
Shortbread . . .239 
Smelts, fried . . . 115 

— au gratin . . .116 

Snipes 38 

Sole a la Parisienne 130 

— a la Rouennaise 130 

— au gratin . . . 131 

— fillets of, a, la 
maitre d'hotel . 131 

— for an invalid . 275 

— fried .... 129 

— fillets of . . . 124 
Soufflee, stewed. . 264 
Soufflees . . 263,264 
Soups 203 

— bonne femme . 217 

— clear . . . .206 

first stock for 204 

second stock . 205 

— calf-tail . . . 212 



318 



THE SKILFUL COOK. 






SOU 




PAGE 

Soups, celery . . 207 
.consomme a la 
incesse . . . 207 
au Royal . . 207 
c*5^jje • • -224 

— Egyptian -puree, 

or lentil soupj* . 212 

— Friar Tuck . . "207 

— giblet .... 216 

— green pea puree 209 

— hare . . . .219 

— haricot . . .208 

— Julienne . . . 206 

— milk .... 217 

— mock turtle . .212 

— mulligatawny . 210 

— onion .... 210 

— ox-cheek . . . 215 

— ox-tail . . . .213 

— oyster .... 208 

— Palestine . . .211 

— parsnip . . . 211 

— potage a l'Ame- 
ricaine .... 209 

— potato puree . . 211 

— pot-au-feu . . 213 

— rabbit . . . . 218 

— red lentil . . .211 

— sheep's-head . 214 

— tapioca . . . 215 
cream . . . 210 

— turnip .... 218 

— white stock . . 204 
; from bones 

uncooked . . . 205 
Spinach .... 193 
Sponge roll - . . .236 
Steak, broiled . . 47 

— fried .... 47 

— stewed .... 40 
Strawberry char- 
lotte 256 



jEUK 




WOO 






PAGE 




PAGE 


Stuffing, ^sage and 




Turkey, roast . , 


33 


onions . ..... 


293 


— galantine of . . 


278 


■ — veal .... 


293 


Turnips . . . . 


195 


Suet and milk . . 


274 






Supper dishes and 








salads .- . . . 


277 


T7EAL a la Be- 
V chamel . . . 




Suppers . . 308-311 


108 


Sweetbreads a la 




— breast of . . . 


29 


Bechamel . . . 


97 


braised . . 


49 


— a la Parisienne . 


100 


— cake . . . . 


76 


— braised . . . 


98 


— cutlets . . . . 


104 


— fried .... 


101 


a l'ltalienne . 


105 


— minced . . . 


100 


a la Talley- 




— plainly boiled . 


276 


rand 

with tomato 


95 






sauce . . . 


102 


rpABLE, the . . 
-L Tapioca and 


13 


— fillet of . . . 


29 




— galantine of . . 


278 


apples .... 


174 


— grenadines of . 


103 


Tartlets .... 


147 


— knuckle of . . 


30 


Tea 


80 


— loin of ... . 


29 


— bran .... 


274 


— shoulder of . . 


29 


— linseed .... 


275 


— and ham pie . . 


141 


Teacakes, York- 




Vegetable marrows. 


196 


shire .... 


239 


Vegetables, cold 


292 


Toad-in-the-hole . 


49 


— Macedoine of 


289 


Toast and water 


273 


— rules for cooking 


190 


— buttered . . . 


70 






— dry 


69 






Toasted cheese . . 


284 


TT7ATER in 
VV which vege- 




Tomato farni . . 


198 




Tomatoes .... 


197 


tables have been 




— au gratin . . . 


201 


boiled . . . . 


292 


— stuffed with sau- 




Welsh rare-bit . . 


284 


sage meat . . . 


74 


Whitebait . . . 


117 


Treacle posset . . 


272 


Whiting a la Ge- 




Trifle 


257 


noise . . . . 


128 


— plain .... 


261 


— a l'ltalienne . . 


127 


Tripe and onions . 


46 


— boiled . . . . 


127 


— stewed .... 


47 


— fried . . . . 


127 


Turbot, boiled . . 


112 


White- wine whey . 


272 


Turkey, boiled . . 


33 


Woodcocks . . . 


38 



SpHliswoode & Co. Printers, New -street Square, London. 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 

3 9999 05987 774 4 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



dan 



