
1 


P 


m 


^ 

^ 


m 


1 


^ 


m 


i 


^^ 




S^ 


^ 





% 



THE 

HOaSEI(EEPEK:S GQIDE, 

[A Vade Mecum,] 
Containing a Very Choice Collection of 

Resipes ^ ^mQUlQBl iFifspmatiisFi 

, /? . FOR EVERY HOME, 

y" Q^ ^ ' AVITH 

/ 

( 

bIP\^\ pi\GES fOI^ ]\JEW I^ECipES. 



BY THK WIFK OF AN ITINERANT, MINISTEK. *^ 

-^.^^-js-^v^ ^^. I wov 28 1884 



HARRISBURG, PA.: 

PUBLISHING DEPARTMENT M. E. BOOK ROOMS, 
THOMAS S. WILCOX. 

1884 



^i 






COPYRIGHTED BY AMELIA D. POLSGROVE. 

1884. 



PREFACE. 

A FEW prefatory remarks will be in place in ofEering this book 
to the public. In its preparation the supreme end sought has 
been that of usefulness ; hence, the greatest care has been taken 
in the collection of the recipes. A very large proportion of them 
have been taken from my own private " Cook Book," tested and 
proven to be reliable, and which have been of invaluable service to 
me through long years of housekeeping. All have been thor- 
oughly tried by skilful housewives, who have cheerfully contrib- 
uted the result of their experience toward the compilation of this 
volume, and who are willing to hold themselves responsible for 
their excellence. As the wife of an itinerant minister, occupying 
so many fields of labor, and being brought into contact with many 
of the best housekeepers, I have had more than an ordinary op- 
portunity for collecting the best recipes in use. I do not claim 
perfection for my book, but I do claim that what I offer is reliable, 
and not a collection of recipes gathered at random from unknown 
parties and sources, simply to make up a book. 

In nearly every case the recipes have been inserted just as they 
have been received from the various contril:)utors, without any 
change in the phraseology. For the sake of convenience, the sub- 
jects treated have been carefully arranged and classified. I do 
not offer this book as a literary production, but as a reliable guide 
to the young and inexperienced housekeeper ; and as such, it is 
submitted to a generous public. 




EKBBIPBR'S gaiBB. 



CAKES. 

General Directions for Making Cakes. 

•HE materials for cake should be fresh and good, or the cake 
will not be palatable. Granulated sugar is the best for 
fine cake, but Avhite sugar should always be used. Have 
everything ready and on the table before you begin. The eggs 
should be fresh, and well beaten ; the cake is always better when 
the whites and yolks are beaten separately. The whites should 
be beaten in a large, shallow dish until you can cut through 
the froth with a knife. The yolks should be beaten in an earthen- 
ware Ijowl until they cease to froth. Always use a silver or 
wooden sjooon. If the weather is cold, the flour and l>utter should 
be moderately wai'med, but the butter should not be allowed to 
melt. Baking powder is preferable to soda and cream of tartar, as 
it makes the cake whiter and lighter. If you use soda, dissolve in 
sweet milk or water, and strain, or it will settle in spots and give 
the cake a bad appearance. The acid should be mixed in the flcur, 
so that the eftervescence will take place in the cake, in order to 
make it light. Stir the butter and sugar together until very light, 
then add the yolks beaten to a froth, add the milk, then part of 
the flour, next half of the beaten whites, then the balance of the flour 



6 CAKES. 

and whites. Use sweet milk with baking powder, and sour milk 
Avith soda and cream of tartar. Prepare your fruit for cake as fol- 
lows : the spices should be pulverized ; seed the raisins, cut fine, 
and dredge with flour, to prevent them from sticking together and 
so that they will mix well with the other ingredients. Zante cur- 
rants require to be rinsed in several waters, rubbed in a cloth, 
the stones picked out, and the currants dried perfectly before using 
them. Citron should be cut into small bits, and almonds blanched, 
by putting them into scalding hot water, and letting them remain 
until the skin can be rubbed off, dry and pound them ; add a little 
rose water or extract of lemon to prevent them from oiling. 
When the fruit is prepared, roll your sugar free from lumps, and 
break an egg into a cup, singly, to find out if it is good, before 
mixing Avith the rest. If the eggs are frozen, lay them in cold 
water a few minutes previous to taking them out of the shells, to 
extract the frost. If the weather is warm, they will beat better if 
laid in cold water a short time. Have your oven well heated be- 
fore putting in your cake ; test the heat by throwing in a small 
portion of flour, and if this blackens immediately, cool the oven a 
little, but if it merely turns brown, then the heat is right. Watch 
the cake, and if likely to get too brown before it is baked through 
cover it with thick paper. To ascertain when it is done, run a 
splint or knitting needle through the thickest part, and if none of 
the cake adheres to the same it is done. The ]5ans for the cake 
shoujd be well greased, and lined with thin, white paper, to pre- 
vent liurning. If the cake is to be frosted, allow it to get luke- 
warm ])efore putting it on. The proportion of rising-powder to 
one quart of flour is three teaspoonfuls of leaking powder, or one 
teaspoonful of soda and two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. 

Pound CaJce — No. 1. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, three-fourths of a pound 
of butter, whites of twelve eggs, and yolks of eight eggs. Beat 
separate, work the butter to a cream, then add the sugar and yolks; 



CAKES. 7 

beat one hour, then add the whites of the eggs. Bake one hour in 
a moderate oven. 

Pound Cake — No. 2. 

One pound of sugar, three-fourths of a pound of butter, whites 
of eleven eggs, and the yolks of nine, and one pound of flour. Beat 
the eggs separately, work the butter to a cream, then add sugar 
and yolks. Beat one hour, stir in the whites and flour alternately. 
One-quarter of a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a tablespoonful of 
whisky (or teaspoonful of vinegar), add before the whites, one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar in the flour. Bake one hour in a mod- 
erate oven. 

Pound (Jake — No. 3. 

Ten eggs, three-fourths of a pound of butter, one pound of 
sugar, one pound of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, not 
too full. Beat the eggs separately and add the sugar to the yolks. 
Beat until light, and then add creamed butter, the flour and eggs 
alternately. Flavor with lemon and nutmeg to taste. Bake one 
hour in a moderate oven. 

Pound Cake — No. 4. 

One pound of sugar, three-fourths of a ])0und of butter, one 
pound of flour and ten eggs ; beat separately. Work the butter to 
a cream and then add sugar and yolks. Beat one hour. Half a 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in one teaspoonful of alum water, add 
to the cake. Lastly, the whites and the flour alternately. Bake 
one hour in a moderate oven. 

White Lilly Pound Cake. 

One pound of sugar, three-fourths of a pound of butter, whites of 
nineteen eggs and one pound of flour. Beat the butter to a cream, 
then add sugar and the beaten whites of nine eggs. Beat one 
hour, dissolve one-quarter of a teaspoonful of soda in a tablespoonful 
of whisky and put into the cake. One teaspoonful of cream of tar- 
tar into the flour. Add the whites of eleven eggs alternately with 
the flour. Bake one hour in a moderate oven. 



8 CAKES. 

Sjionge Cahe — No. 1. 

One tin of sugar, three-fourths of a tin of flour, ten eggs, a tea- 
spoonful of extract of lemon or vanilla, and a teaspoonful of baking 
powder. Beat the eggs and sugar one hour, then stir in the flour 
slowly. 

^^ipon(Je Cake — iSfo. 2. 

Ten eggs, one pound of sugar, three-fourths of a pound of flour. 
Leave out the yolks of two eggs. Beat the eggs and sugar one 
hour, and then stir in the flour slowly. 

iSponge Cake — No. 3. 

Beat well the yolks of ten eggs with a pound of jiowdered white 
sugar. Add the whites, beaten to a stiff froth. Beat the whole ten 
or fifteen minutes, then stir in gradually half a pound of sifted 
flour. Spice with nutmeg or the grated rind of a lemon. Bake 
immediately. 

/Sponge Ca/ie — No. 4- 

Three cups of flour, two cups of sugar, five eggs, one-fourth of 
a cup of water or juice of an orange, two teaspoonfuls of l^aking- 
powder in the flour, sift the sugar and beat the eggs and sugar to- 
gether, and when light add water or the juice of an orange. 

jSpoiige Cake — No. 5. 

Four large eggs, one coffee cup of sugar, one cup of flour, tar- 
taric acid the size of a pea, or half a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
one spoonful of extract of lemon. Beat the yolks and sugar light, 
and add a little salt. Dissolve one-fourth of a teaspoonful of soda 
in a spoonful of water, and put in with the yolks and the sugar. 
Add the flolu- and beaten whites alternately, and then add tar- 
taric acid. Bake immediately. 

Cream Sjionge Cake. 
One cup of sugar, one cup of flour, half a cup of cream, two 



CAKES. 

Jjerwick Sponge Cake. 

Six eggs beaten three minutes, three cups of sugar, beat ten min- 
utes. One teaspoonful of soda iu one cup of cold water. Two 
teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, rind and juice of one lemon, four 
cups of flour. Put the cream of tartar into the flour. 

Water Sjyonge Cake. 

Pour a half pint of water over one pound of sugar, beat until 
all the sugar is dissolved, break six eggs, pour water and sugar 
over them, gradually stirring them. Beat half an hour, and add 
three-quarters of a pound of flour, and bake immediately. 

Z/emon Sporuje Cake. 

One pound of powdered sugar, three-fourths of a pound of 
ilour, ten eggs, the juice of one lemon and a little salt. Beat the 
yolks until very light, then add the sugar, lemon juice and salt. 
Add the whites, beaten stiff, alternately with the flour. Add half 
of the flour first. 

Fruit Cake—Xo. 1. 

Twelve eggs, one pound of white sugar, one pound of butter, 
two pounds of raisins, two pounds of currants, half a pound of cit- 
ron. Beat eggs separately, stir the butter, sugar and yolks of the 
eggs together until light, mix half a lemon and juice with half a 
pint of cold water, sweeten, and add before the fruit, flour the fruit 
well and add the flour and whites of eggs last alternately. Bake 
two and one-half hours. 

Fruit Cake—Xo. 2. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one pound of flour, 
twelve eggs, one pound of citron, one pound of almonds, blanched 
and chopped fine, two nutmegs, two pounds of raisins, two pounds 
of currants, one teaspoonful of cloves, two teaspoonfuls of cinna- 
mon, half a pint of rose water, one pint of milk put in last. 
Bake four or five hours in a slow oven. 



CAKES. 

Fruit (Jake— No. 3. 

One pound of butter, one pound of flour, one pound of dark 
brown sugar, two pounds of raisins, seeded, two pounds of cur- 
rants, two pounds of citron, two and one-half teaspoonfuls of 
cloves, two and one-half teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, two and one- 
half teaspoonfuls of nutmeg, half a glass of milk. Mix it like 
Pound Cake No. 3, and when light add cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg 
and milk. Dredge the fruit in flour, mix flour and fruit altern- 
ately, and put in the last gradually. 

Fruit Cake—JSfo. 4. 

One pound of sugar, two and a-half pints of flour, one pound of 
raisins, one pound of currants, one pound of citron, three-quarters 
of a pound of butter, half a gill of milk, three drops of almond oil, 
and half a teaspoonf ul of soda. Bake in a slow oven three hours. 

Fruit Cake — No. 5. 

Two cups of brown sugar, one-half pint of New Orleans molas- 
ses, one-half pint of buttermilk, one large cup of butter, four eggs, 
one pound of raisins, one ])ound of currants, one tablespoonful of 
cloves, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one nutmeg, and one table- 
spoonful of soda. 

Cheap Fruit (Jake. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, 
yolks of six eggs, three cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, two cups of raisins, two-thirds of a cup of citron, cut fine, 
one teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg. 

(Jheap Fruit Cake — A^o. 2. 

One cup of sugar, two eggs, one-half cup of sweet milk, not 
quite half a cup of butter, two cups of raisins, cinnamon, cloves 
and nutmeg to taste, two teaspoonfuls of Royal Baking Powder, 
and two and one-half cups of flour. 



CAKES. 11 

Dried Ap2)le Fruit Cake. 

Two and one-half cups of dried apples, cut fine with scissors, 
one cup of currants, one cup of butter, one of sugar, one of sweet 
milk, two and one-half cups of molasses, two teaspoonfuls each of 
cinnamon and cloves and one of nutmeg, three teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. Boil the apples two and one-half hours in the 
molasses. Bake in a slow oven two and one-half hours. 

Hickory Nut (Jake — No. 1. 

Two and one-half cvips of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of butter, 
half a cup of milk, five eggs, three and one-half cups of flour, one 
tinful of hickory nuts, one tinful raisins, three teaspoonfuls of ba- 
king powder. 

Hickory Nut Cake — No. 2. 

Two and one-half large cups of sugar, pulverized, one cup but- 
ter, one cup sweet milk, three and a-half cups flour, whites of 
eight eggs, one cup raisins, one of hickory nuts, three teaspoonfuls 
baking powder. Bake in a dripping pan. 

Hickory Nut Cake — No. 3. 

Two cups of sugar, half a cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, 
four eggs, four cups of flour, one pint of hickory nuts, three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. 

Hickory Nut Cake — No. 4. 

Two cups of svigar, one cup of sweet milk, one cup of butter, 
one pint of hickory nuts, one pint of raisins, Avhites of nine eggs, 
four cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, half a nut- 
meg. 

Hickory Nut Cake — No. 5. 

Two and a-half cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of sweet 
milk, three and a-half cups of flour, whites of eight eggs, one pint 
of raisins, one pint of hickory nuts, three teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. 



12 CAKES. 

Hickory Nut Cake— No. 0. 

One cup of milk, two cups of sugar, half a cup of butter, whites 
of five eggs, three cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
one tin cup of hickory nuts. Bake in one layer in a long, square 
pan. 

Almond Cake — No. 1. 

Two cups of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of butter, one cup of 
sweet milk, whites of eight eggs, one pint of almonds, bleached 
and chopped fine, with a tablespoonful of rose water, three and a 
half cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Almond Cake — No. 2. 

Two cups of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of butter, one cup of 
milk, three eggs, three cups of flour, one cup of almonds, blanched 
and chopped fine, in one teaspoonful of rose water, two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder. 

Walnut Cake. 

Half a cup of butter, one and a half cups of sugar, two cups of 
flour, three-quarters of a cup of sweet milk, whites of four eggs, 
one cup of nuts, chopped coarsely, two small teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. 

iJate Cake. 

Half a cup of milk, three-quarters of a cup of butter, one and a 
half cups of sugar, three-quarters of a cup of fresh dates, three 
eggs, half a nutmeg, one teaspoonful of baking powder. 

Cocoanut Cake — No. 1. 

One large cocoanut grated, half a pound of butter, one pound 
of sugar, three-quarters of a pound of flour, six eggs, half a cup of 
milk, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Add the cocoanut 
when ready for the oven. 

Cocoanut Cake — No. 2. 
One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, four cups of sifted flour. 



CAKES. 13 

one cvip of sweet milk, whites of ten eggs, well beaten, half a large 
cocoanut grated, essence to taste, three teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. 

(Jocoannt Loaf Cake. 

One cup of butter, three cups of sugar, four cups of Hour, five 
eggs, a tablespoonful of rose water, one cup of milk, two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder in the flour. Work the butter to a cream, 
add the sugar and the eggs, ]:)eaten separately, then the milk and 
half a pound of cocoanut. Beat the whites of two eggs with half 
a pound of sugar and half a pound of currants, and set in the oven 
to bake the icjng. 

Lemon (Jake — iVo. 1. 

Three cups of loaf sugar, one cup of butter. Work the sugar 
and butter to a cream, then stir in the yolks of five eggs, well 
beaten, add one cup of milk, then the whites, beaten stiff. Mix 
one tablespoonful of baking powder in four cups of flour ; sift in 
the cake as lightly as possible. Lastly, add the juice and rind of 
one lemon, grated. 

JjemoH Cake — Xo. 2. 

Four eggs, one cup of butter, four cups of flour, half a pint of 
sour cream, one lemon rind and juice, one teaspoonful of soda, two 
teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar ; mix the cream of tartar in the 
flour ; dissolve the soda in a little water. Bake forty-five min- 
utes. 

Orancje (Jake. 

Two oranges, two cups of sugar, two cups of flour, half a cup of 
cold water, yolks of five eggs, whites of four eggs, a pinch of salt, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

L^adi/ (Jake — Ko. 1. 

One and one-quarter pounds of sugar, one pound of butter, one 
pound of flour, whites of sixteen eggs, one and one-half ounces of 
bitter almonds. Work butter and sugar to a cream, then add the 
eggs. Bake one hour. 



14 CAKES. 

Lady Cake — No. 2. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, half a cup of butter, 
whites of five eggs, three cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder in the flour. 

Number Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, half a cup of butter, four eggs, three cups 
of flour, one cup of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der. Leave out the whites of two eggs for icing. 

Corn Starch CaJce — No. 1. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, 
one cup of flour, one cup of corn starch, whites of eight eggs, two 
teaspoonfuls of the extract of lemon, and two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. 

Corn Starch Cake — No. 2. 

One cup of butter, two cups of white sugar, one cup of sweet 
milk, two cups of flour, one cup of corn starch, the whites of six 
eggs, beaten to a stifle froth, and put in the last thing, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder put in the flour. 

Snoio Cake — No. 1. 

Three and one-fourth cups of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup 
of milk, one cup of corn starch, two cups of flour, whites of seven 
eggs, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Mix flour, 
corn starch and baking powder together, add the sugar and butter 
alternately with the milk, and lastly the whites of seven eggs. 
Flavor to taste. 

Snow Cake — No. 2. 

The whites of ten eggs, one and one-half cups of white sugar, 
one cup of flour, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Beat the 
whites to a stiff froth, sift the sugar into them, and mix the cream 
of tartar in the flour. 



CAKES. 15 

Angel Food — JSfo. 1. 

The whites of eleven eggs beaten to a stiff froth, then add one 
and a half cups granulated sugar and one teaspoonful of vanilla, 
beat well and lightly one cup of flour, after sifting, and to this add 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, sifting flour and cream of tartar: 
repeat the sifting four times; add last, beat well and lightly. Bake 
in ungreased pan one hour and ten minutes, turning out on a block 
to cool. 

Angel Food — JSTo. 2. 

The whites of eleven eggs, one and a half tumblers of pulverized 
sugar sifted four times, one tumbler of flour sifted three times, 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar in the flour. Add one table- 
spoonful of the sugar at a time. Bake in a moderately heated oven 
one hour and ten minutes. 

Angel Food— No. 3. 

Whites of eleven eggs, one cup of flour, after sifting, one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar ; sift flour and cream of tartar four times; 
beat eggs to a stiff froth. Add one and a half cups of granvdated 
sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla, add flour, beat lightly but thor- 
oughly. Bake in an ungreased pan slowly for forty minutes. The 
pan should have a strip projecting above each corner in order that 
when turned over the air may circulate under it. An ordinary pan 
will do if set upon the edges of two other pans to cool. It is nec- 
essary that the oven be a slow one; if too hot leave the door open; 
the cake will rise gradually. 

Bride Cake — No. 1. 

Whites of ten eggs, four cups of sugar, two cups of sweet cream, 
six cups of flour, one cup of butter, three teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. 

Bride Cake— No. 2. 

One pound of sugar, three-fourths of a pound of butter, one 
pound of flour, and whites of fifteen eggs. Flavor to taste. 



16 CAKES. 

(h(2) Cak-e. 

One tinful of sugar, one-half tinful of Ijutter, one cup of sweet 
cream, five eggs, four cups of flour. Beat the eggs separately. 
Three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

White Cup (Jake. 

One cup of sour cream, one cup of butter, three cups of flour, 
two cups of sugar. Stir the butter and sugar until very light, by 
degrees add the cream alternately with the flour, add the whites of 
five eggs, beaten stiff', alternately with the remainder of the flour; 
lastly, stir in one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little water. 

Pearl Cake. 

One cup of corn starch, one cup of butter, two cups of sugar, 
two cups of sifted flour, one cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of 
baking powder, in the flour, whites of four eggs and essence to 
taste. 

Cnonh Cake. 

Two cups of flour, one cup of sugar, half a cup of butter. Mix 
the flour, butter and sugar together, with the hands, into the 
crumbs. Take out half a cup of crvnnbs for the top of the cake, 
and in the remainder put one teasj^oonf'ul of baking powder, one 
^s^^.1 and half a cuj) of milk. Bake in a flat j^an, with the crumbs 
on the top. 

iStraw Cake. 

Three cups of sugar, one of butter, four of flour, one of sweet 
milk, five eggs, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the milk, two 
teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, mix in the flour, work butter to a 
cream, then add the sugar, with the yolks of the eggs. Work 
well, then add the milk and flour alternately, and lastly the whites 
of the effffs. 

One Egg (Jake. 

Butter the size of an egg mixed with a cup of white sugar, one 



CAKES. 17 

cup of milk, one egg, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder in the 
flour. 

Cottage Ca'ke. 

One cHip of sugar, half a cup of butter, one cup of buttermilk, 
three cups of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, and two eggs. 

Tea Cake. 

One cup of sugar, half a cup of l^utter, one Qg^., two-thirds of a 
cup of buttermilk, an even spoonful of soda. Flavor with cin- 
namon. 

Holiday Cake. 

Two cups of flour, two cups of sugar, one cup of corn starch, 
one cup of butter, one cup of milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, whites of six eggs; flavor to suit the taste. Mix the 
baking powder in the flour and corn starch; cream the butter with 
your hands, then add sugar, milk and flour alternately, lastly the 
eggs. 

S'pice CaJce — ]Sfo. 1. 

Two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, one cup of milK, one 
pound of chopped raisins, one small cup of butter, three teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, and a little 
nutmeg. 

S^rice Cake — No. 2. 

Two cups of brown sugar, one cup of butter, four cups of flour, 
one cup of sour milk, five eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, two of 
cream of tartar, one pound of raisins, half a pound of citron, half 
a pound of currants, two tablespoonfuls of cloves, two of cinna- 
mon, and two nutmegs. Improves with age. 

Ginger tSpice Cake. 

Half pound of butter, half pound of sugar, six eggs beaten sep- 
arately, one pint' of molasses, one pint of sour milk, in which put 
one tablespoonful of soda, three pints of sifted flour, one table- 



18 CAKES. 

spoonful of ginger, one of cinnamon, one nutmeg grated, one tea- 
spoonful of cloves, one pound of raisins, two of currants, and half 
a pound of citron. Put the whites of the eggs in last. 

( J heap (Jake. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of sour cream, one egg, half a tea- 
spoonful of soda, the same of salt; flavor with nutmeg. 

Pork Cake. 

Three-fourths of a pound of pork, cut in small pieces, two cups 
of sugar, one cup of molasses, one pound of raisins, one pound of 
currants, half pint of citron, one spoonful of cloves, one of cinna- 
mon, one of soda, two of cream of tartar, one pint of boiling water, 
and five and a half cups of flour. 

Svjyerior Cake. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of butter, 
two-thirds of a cup of milk, whites of four eggs, and two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder. 

Fkuit Part. — One and one-half cups of sugar, half a cup of 
butter, three-fourths of a cup of milk, two and a half cups of flour, 
one cup of raisins, one-quarter of a pound of citron, one teaspoon- 
ful of cloves, yolks of four eggs, and two teaspoonf uls of baking 
powder. 

.Railroad Cake — N'o. 1. 

Three eggs, two cups of sugar, half a cup of butter, one cup of 
milk, three cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Railroad Cake — JSFo. 2. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, yolks of five eggs, whites 
of two, one cup of milk, three and one-half cups of flour, and two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powderi 

Huckelberry Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, five eggs, one cup of sweet 
milk, one quart of ripe, fresh huokelberries dredged with flour, three 



CAKES. 19 

cups of flour. Cream the butter and sugar, add the beaten yolks, 
then the milk, the flour, the whites whipped stiff, and lastly the 
huckelberries, with a spoon so as not to bruise them. Bake in a 
loaf, or on a card, in a moderate but steady oven until a straw 
comes out clean from the thickest part. 

Watermelon Cake. 

White Pakt. — Two cups of pulverized sugar, two-thirds of a 
cup of butter, one cu]) of sweet milk, whites of six eggs, three 
cups of flour sifted with one tablespoonful of baking powder. 
Flavor to taste. 

Pink Part. — Made the same as the white, except use pink 
sugar, which can be bought at the confectioner's, and one-half 
pound of raisins. Put the pink part in the centre of the pan and 
the white on the outside. Drop in raisins here and there in the 
centre for seeds. 

Cofee Cak-e—JSTo. 1. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of molasses, three 
•eggs, one cup of cold coffee. Just made as for table use, only clear, 
four cups of flour, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of ground cloves, 
two teaspoonfuls of nutmeg, wine glass of lemon juice, one pound 
of raisins soaked in coffee, one pound of currants, one pound of 
spiced citron, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Cojfee Cake—Xo. 2. 

Two cups of sugar, one of butter, one of coffee, one tablespoon- 
ful of cinnamon, one of cloves, one of soda, one nutmeg, one pound 
of raisins, three and a half cups of flour. Let it remain in the pan 
till cool. 

Tea CaJce. 

Six eggs, one pound of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of 
milk, four cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Marble CaJce — N'o. 1. 
Two cups of white sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of sweet 



20 CAKES. 

milk, whites of eight eggs, four cups of sifted flour, two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder mixed in the flour. Cream the butter and 
sugar, then add the milk, the flour, and lastly the whites of the 
eggs. 

Marble (Jake — No. 2. 

One cup of molasses, half a cup of Ijutter, yolks of two eggs, half 
a cup of milk, two cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. 

White Part. — One cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, whites 
of two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder well mixed in two 
cups of flour. Spice to taste. 

Marble Black — No. 1. 

One cup of brown sugar, one-third of a cup of butter, half a cup 
of molasses, the yolks of four eggs, one-fourth of a cup of milk, one 
tablesj^onful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of allspice, one of 
cloves, half a nvitmeg, one tablespoonful of pepper two cups of 
flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, mixed well in the flour. 
Mix and bake together. 

Marble Black — No. 2. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, whites of 
eight eggs, two and one-half cups of flour, half a cup of corn 
starch, one teaspoonful of baking powder to a cup of flour. Cream 
the butter and sugar, then add the milk; gradually add the whites 
beaten to a stiff froth alternately with the flour, then divide the 
mixture, (have a little less than half <br the dark part) and add to 
the smallest portion enough chocolate to make it darker, (a little 
over half a cup) adding one teaspoonful of cloves, two of cinna- 
mon, half a nutmeg. Put the white batter in first. 
Mountain Ash (Jake. 

Three tablespoonfuls less than one pound of sugar, one cu]> of 
butter, whites of ten eggs, half a cup of sweet milk, two and a half 
cups of flour, half a cup of corn starch, three teaspoonfuls of Royal 
baking powder. Cream the butter and sugar together; sift the 
flour and corn starch. 



CAKES. 21 

LAYER CAKES. 

Centennial (Jake. 

First make a black cake after the following recipe : One cup 
of butter, two cups of brown sugar, one cup of molasses, one of 
strong coffee, four eggs, four and a half cups of sifted flour, two 
teaspoonfuls of soda, two of cinnamon, two of cloves, one of mace, 
one pound of raisins, one pound of currants, three-eighths of a 
pound of citron. More fruit makes the cake handsomer, bvit the 
above quantity is sufficient. Bake in jelly-cake pans an inch in 
thickness. 

White Part. — One cup of butter, four cups of powdered white 
svigar, the whites of eight eggs, two cups of sweet milk, two cups 
of corn starch mixed with flour, six teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Flavor slightly with bitter almond. Have the cakes the same 
thickness. Lay a white layer on each dark one. 

Filling. — The white of one egg beaten stiff, the grated rind of 
two lemons and juice of three or four. Powdered sugar to make 
thick frosting. 

Velvet Cake. 

One pound of sugar, half a ])Ound of butter, one teacupful of 
cold water, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful 
soda, four eggs. Beat the sugar and butter to a cream, dissolve 
the soda in the water, and sift the cream of tartar into one pound 
of flour, mixing thoroughly; add to the butter and sugar the flour 
and water. Beat the yolks of the eggs light, then the whites to a 
stiff" froth, beat together for a minute, and stir into the cake, then 
beat three minutes. Bake in two pans. 

Yanity Cake. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, half a cup of butter, five eggs, 
half a cup of sweet milk, two cups of flour. Leave the whites of 
two eggs out for icing. Three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Take out one-third of the batter, and add one teaspoonful of cinna- 



22 CAKES. 

mon, half a teaspoonful of cloves, one cup of chopped raisins, a 
•little nutmeg and citron. Bake in three pans. 

Gold and Silver Cake — iVo. 1. 

Silver Portion. — Whites of six eggs, two cups of sugar, one 
cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, one lemon, one cup of corn 
starch, two cups of flour, and two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Gold Portiox. — Take the yolks of the eggs and the same prep- 
aration of the other ingredients as above described. Beat the sugar 
and butter to a cream, add the corn starch, beat smoothly, add the 
eggs, milk and flour, beat for fifteen minutes, flavor, and put in the 
pans. 

Gold and Silver Cake — iVb. 2. 

Silver Portion. — Whites of five eggs, two cups of sugar, one 
cup of sweet milk, three tablespoonfuls of butter, three cups of 
flour, and two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Gold Portion. — One cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, half 
a cup of sweet milk, and yolks of six eggs. 

Gold and Silver Cake — No. 3. 

Silver Portion. — Four cups of sugar, one cup of butter, whites 
of sixteen eggs, one cup of sweet milk, five cups of sifted flour, 
and two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Gold Portion. — Three cups of sugar, one cup of butter, yolks 
of ten eggs, one cup of sweet milk, four cups of fiour, and two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Gold and Silver Cake — iVo. 4. 

Silver Portion. — Two cups of pulverized sugar, half a cup of 
butter, three-quarters of a cup of sweet milk, whites of eight eggs, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Cream the butter and sugar, 
add the eggs well beaten, the flour and milk. Stir the whole for a 
few minutes. 

Gold Portion. — One cup of sugar, three-quarters of a cup of 
butter, the yolks of eight eggs, half a cup of sweet milk, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. Mix the same as silver cake. 



CAKES. 23 

Tri- Co lo red (Jake . 

The whites of five eggs, one cup of white sugar, half a cup of 
sweet milk, half a cup of butter; make as thick with flour as for 
muffins, two teaspoonfuls ot baking powder. For the brown part 
take the same of brown sugar, with the yolks of five eggs, and the 
same proportion of the other ingredients as the above. For the 
pink part take the whites of two and a half eggs, one-fourth of a 
cup of butter, one-quarter of a cup of milk, half a cup of pink 
sugar, one teaspoonful of baking powder. Bake in jelly cake 
pans. 

/Snoic Flake (Jake — iVo. 1. 

One cup of butter, three cups of white sugar, whites of ten eggs, 
half a cup of sweet milk, three and a half cups of flour, one heap- 
ing teaspoonful of baking powder in the flour. Stir the flour in 
(juickly. Bake in three tins. 

Icing for Snow Flake Cake. — Take the whites of three 
eggs, one pound of powdered sugar. Spread the icing; sprinkle 
cocoanut between each layer and over the top and sides. 

Snoio Flake Cake — No. 2. 

Three cups of sugar, three-quarters of a cup of butter, whites 
of six eggs, one cup of cornstarch dissolved in one cup of sweet 
milk, two and one-half cups of flour sifted with two large tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. Beat the sugar and butter to a 
cream, add the cornstarch dissolved in the milk, then the flour, and 
lastly the whites of the eggs well beaten. Bake in jelly cake pans. 

Spreading for the Cake. — Take a little constarch and pre- 
pare it just as you would for custard, have it very sweet, flavor 
highly with vanilla, and spread thinly every layer with this prepa- 
ration. 

Dolhj in the Blanket. 

Three eggs, one-quarter of a pound of flour, one quart of sweet 
milk, a little salt in the milk. Mix the milk, flour and yolks of 
eggs together. Put the whites in last. Bake in one pan, eat 
warm with suo-ar and cream. 



24 CAKES. 

Cup Calce. 

One cup of sugar, three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of very cold 
water, one cup of flour, one teaspoonful of Royal Baking Powder 
sifted into the flour. Beat the eggs and sugar together, then add 
the water, sift the flour into the mixture; beat a little and bake in 
a long pan in a moderate oven. 

Ice Cream Cal:e — iVo. 1. 

Two large cups of sugar, one small teacup of butter, one small 
cup of cornstarch, one large cuj) of sweet milk, one large cup of 
flour, two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder, whites of 
eight eggs beaten stiff and put in last; use powdered sugar, and 
mix the baking powder well with the flour. 

IciJfG FOR Cake. — Four cups of pulverized sugar, half a cup of 
boiling water, put on the stove and boil until candied, then pour into 
the well-beaten whites of four eggs, beat hard until cool, then add 
one teaspoonful of citric acid, one of vanilla; dissolve a small lump 
of the acid in a tablespoonful of water, take from that a teaspoon- 
ful; spread thick between layers. 

Ice Cream Cake — No. 2. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, 
one cup of cornstarch, two cups of flovir after it is sifted, whites of 
eight eggs, two large teaspoonfuls of baking powder; use powdered 
sugar, beat the sugar and butter to a cream, mix the baking pow- 
<ler thoroughly in the flour before putting it in the batter, lastly 
add the whites beaten to a stifl^' froth, flavor with vanilla. 

Icing for Cake. — Whites of four eggs, beaten very light, four 
cups of powdered sugar, half a pint of boiling water poured over 
the sugar, boil until it begins to harden when dropped into water, 
but do not let it get too hard, then pour slowly over the eggs, beat- 
ing all the time, then add one teaspoonful of citric acid, flavor with 
vanilla; let stand until cold, then spread between the layers and 
over the top and sides. The icing should be about one-fourth of 
an inch thick between the layers; if the acid is not in liquid form. 



CAKES. 25 

dissolve a lump about the size of a bean in a tablespoonful of boil- 
ing water, use a teaspoonfui of this. 

Ice Cream Cake — iVo. H. 

Two large cups of sugar, one cup of butter, whites of eight 
eggs, one cup of sweet milk, two and a half cups of flour, half a 
cup of cornstarch, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder sifted in 
the flour, one teaspoonfui of almond or vanilla. 

Icing for Cake, — One and a half large cups of sugar, whites 
of three eggs beaten light, boil the sugar with half a cup of water 
until it begins to thicken, then pour over the eggs, and beat until 
almost cold, flavor. 

Chocolate CaJce — iVo. 1. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, four eggs, one cup of sweet 
milk, three cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Icing. — One-fourth cake of chocolate, one cup of sweet milk, yolk 
of one G^g,, one teaspoonfui of vanilla. Boil all but the vanilla until 
thick. Sweeten to taste. 

Chocolate Cake — iVo. 5. 

Whites of seven eggs beaten to a stiff froth, one cup of butter, 
two cups of sugar, one-half a cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder mixed well in the flour; add 
the flour and eggs alternately, then divide the mixture, grate choc- 
olate in half, then pour in pans as marble cake: first a spoonful of 
white, then of dark until the pan is filled. 

Chocolate Cake—N'o. 3. 

One cup of butter, two cups of white sugar, six eggs beaten sep- 
arately, or the yolks of twelve, four cups of sifted flour, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder well mixed in the flour. Bake in layers. 

Icing. — Whites of two eggs well beaten, half a pound of sugar, 
half a pound of flour, one-fourth bottle of vanilla, half a cup of 
chocolate. Spread between the layers and over the top and sides. 



26 CAKES. 

Chocolate Cake — No. 4. 

One cup of sugar, not quite half a cup of butter, half a cup of 
milk, two eggs, two cups of flour, two large spoonfuls of baking 
powder. 

Filling. — Grate not quite half a cake of chocolate, mix with half 
a cup of milk, the yolk of one egg, one cup of sugar. Boil all to- 
gether, and when done add one teaspoonful of vanilla. Bake in 
layers. Put boiled icing between. 

Dolly V^ardeu Cake — iVo. 1. 

Whites of five eggs, one cup of white sugar, half a cup of milk, 
half a cup of butter, two cups of flour, one teaspoonful of baking 
powder mixed well in the flour. Take the yolks of the eggs and 
the same proportion cf the other ingredients for the other half of 
the cake; add one teaspoonful of baking powder, one pound of cur- 
rants, one teaspoonful of cinnamon and nutmeg. Bake in layers. 

Dolly Yarden Cake — No. 2. 

Four eggs, two cups of sugar, half a cup of butter, one cup of 
sweet milk, three cups of flour, two teaspoonf uls of baking powder. 
Take one-half the quantity and add one cup of raisins cut in halves, 
one cup of currants, half a nutmeg, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, 
two teaspoonfuls of cloves. Bake in layers an inch thick. Put 
icing between. 

Excellent Cake. 

One pint of sugar, one cup of butter, five eggs, one cup of milk, 
one quart of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder mixed well 
in the flour. Bake in layers. 

Lady Cake. 

One pound of sugar, six ounces of butter, the whipped whites of 
ten eggs, three-fourths of a pound of sifted flour. Flavor with bit- 
ter almonds. Flavor the frosting Avith vanilla. The combination 
is very pleasant. Bake in square tins. 



CAKES. 27 

IVhite.Mountain Cake — N'o. 1. 

One and one-half cups of white sugar, half a cup of butter, one 
cup of sour milk, five eggs, half a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in 
half the milk , two cups of flour, half a teaspoonful of cream of tar- 
tar sifted in the flour, half the rind of a lemon. Mix sugar and 
butter well together, add half the milk, then half the flour; add 
half the yolks of the eggs, then the balance of everything. This 
makes the yellow cake. 

White Part. — One and one-half cups of sugar, half a cup of 
butter, one cup of sour milk, whites of five eggs, half the rind of a 
lemon, two cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder mixed 
well in the flour. 

Icing for Cake. — Whites of three eggs, beat the eggs to a stiff 
froth, then add sugar and the juice of a lemon. Sprinkle cocoanut 
on each layer and over the top. 

White Mountain Cake — Xo. 2. 

Three cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cuj) of sweet milk, 
three and one-half cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
whites of ten eggs. Bake in six cakes. Ice with the whites of 
three eggs well beaten and thickened with sugar and cocoanut. 

White Mountain Cake No. 3. 

Whites of three eggs, or two eggs whites and yolks beaten sep- 
arately, one cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, half a cup of sweet 
milk, two and one-half cups c»f flour, one teaspoonful of baking 
powder, two-thirds of a teaspoonful of extract of lemon. Beat but- 
ter light. 

White Mountain Cake — No. 4. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, one cup of milk, 
whites of eight eggs, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Bake 
in layers, ice or cocoanut between. 

White Jlountain Cake — No. ,i. 
One pound of white sugar, one teacup of butter, half a teacup 



28 CAKES. 

of sweet milk, the whites of ten eggs, three cups of flour, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. Flavor with vanilla or almonds. 
Bake as jelly cake, with icing between. 

Fig Cake— No. L 

Two cups of sugar, three-fourths cup of butter, whites of four 
eggs, one cup of milk, four cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. Make in two layers. 

Filling. — One pound of figs, chopped fine; one pound of 
almonds, one pound of filberts, blanched and chopped; whites of 
three eggs beaten stiff, sugar enough to make good icing, then mix 
the nuts and figs in the icing and spread between the layers and 
on the top; ice the top layer also. It will be rather stiff, but press 
it down with a knife. 

I\-g Cake—J^o. 2. 

One cup of sugar, half pound of butter, half a cup of sweet milk, 
three eggs, two and one-half cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. Bake in two layers. 

Filling. — Half pound of figs, chopped fine, one cup of sugar, 
one cup of water. Boil to the consistency of jelly and add half a 
pound of filberts and half a pound of almonds. Spread between the 
layers and ice the top. 

Fig Cake—N'o. 3. 

White Part. — One cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, half a 
cup of milk, one and one-half cups of flour, whites of four eggs, 
one teaspoonful of baking powder. 

Gold Part. — Half a cup of sugar, one-fourth of a cup of but- 
ter, one-fourth of a cup of milk, one cup of flour, yolks of four 
eggs, one teaspoonful of baking powder, chop one-half of a pound 
of figs and put in the gold part after the cake is in the pan. Put 
an icing between the layers. 

MinneJiaha Cake. 

One and one-half cups of granulated sugar, half a cup of butter 
stirred to a cream, whites of six eggs, or three whole eggs, two tea- 



I 



CAKES. 29 

spoonfuls of baking powder put in two heaping cups of sifted flour. 
Bake in layers. 

Filling. — One cup of sugar, a little water; boil together until 
brittle when dropped into cold water, remove from the stove, stir 
quickly into the well beaten white of one egg, add to this a cup of 
stoned raisins, or a cup of chopped hickory nuts. 

Garfield GaJce. 

Ten eggs, one pound of sugar, two lemons, half of a pound of 
flour. Beat whites and yolks separately; add to all the yolks the 
whites of seven eggs, the sugar, the rind of two lemons, juice of 
one. Bake in layers. 

Filling. — To the whites of three eggs, allow one pound and a 
quarter of powered sugar, beat stifi" as for icing, take out enough 
to cover the top of the cake, set aside, add to the rest the juice and 
half the grated rftid of a large orange. When the cake is nearly 
cold sjiread this between the layers. Beat into the icing reserved 
for the top a little lemon juice; if needed, more sugar; it should be 
stifi"er than that spread Ijetween the cakes. 

French Cream Cake — JSfo. 1. 

One cup of sugar, three eggs, one and one-half cups of milk, two 
cups of flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder. Bake like Jelly 
Cake, only have the layers thicker; when done split open with a 
sharp knife, and place one above the other with the crust down. 
Cream between each layer. 

Cream for the Cake. — One pint of milk, two eggs, one cup of 
sugar, two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, boil all together and then 
add one-half a cup of butter and two teaspoonfuls of vanilla. 

French Cream Cake — No. 2. 

One cup of sugar, three eggs, one and one-half cups of flour, two 
tablespoonfuls of cold water, one teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Bake like Jelly Cake. 

Cream for Cake. — Boil nearly a pint of milk with two small 
tablespoonfuls of cornstarch dissolved in a little milk before stirring 



30 CAKES. 

in, add a small cup of sugar when nearly done, and half a cup of 
butter, add two well beaten eggs when milk has come to a boil. 

Flavor to taste. 

Cream Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, two eggs, one cup of sweet cream, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, one and one-half cups of flvour, if not 
stiff enough add a little more. 

Cream for betwken^ the layers. — One pint of milk, half a 
teacup of sugar, one egg^^ two teaspoonfuls of cornstarch. Boil un- 
til thick. 

BocJiester Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, three-fourths of a cup of butter, three cups 
of flour, one cup of sweet milk, three eggs, three teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. Bake one-half of the cake without the spices. 
For the dark part add one cup of raisins, one .nutmeg, one tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon and cloves. Boiled icing between. 

Eoll Jelhj Cake— No. 1. 

Four eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour, one teaspoonful of 
baking powder, a pinch of salt. This will make two cakes. Spread 
thin on long tins. 

Boll Jelly Cake— No. 2. 

Take three eggs beaten thoroughly, one cup of sugar, one of 
flour; stir them well together; add one teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, the soda to be dissolved in a 
little water, cream of tartar in the flour. Bake in long pans ; 
spread with jelly; roll. 

Orange Cake — No. 1. 

One cupful of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, five 
eggs, three and one-fourth cupfuls of flour, one and one-half tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, juice of one orange. Bake in jelly 
cake pans. 

Filling for Between the Layers. — One cup of milk, two 
eggs well beaten, two tablespoonfuls of corn starch, two oranges, 



CAKES. 31 

rind of one, two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Put the milk on to boil, 
mix the corn starch smooth with a little milk, add the beaten eggs, 
the Juice of oranges and grated rind of one, beat a little and pour 
into the boiling milk; stir until thick enough to spread. 

Oraufje Cake — iVo. 2. 

Two cups of sugar, six eggs, two cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, mixed in the flour, ten tablespoonfuls of cold 
water, grate the rind and pulp of one orange in the batter; keep 
the whites of three eggs out for icing; add the juice of one orange. 

Banana Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, half a cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, 
two cups of flour, one cup of corn starch, two heaping teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, whites of four eggs beaten stiff and added last. 

Filling for Betweex the Cake. — One cup of milk, two eggs, 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch; mix 
the corn starch Smooth in a little milk, add the beaten eggs and 
pour in the boiling milk; stir until thick enough to spread over the 

■ cakes, then lay a banana, sliced thin, over it. 

Ambrosia Cake. 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar, one of milk, and three and 
one -fourth cupfuls of flour, five eggs, one and one-half teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder. Bake in jelly cake pans. When cold 
spread with two cups of whipped cream, one grated cocoanut, two 
eggs, three-fourths of a cvip of sugar, two oranges, and the grated 
rind of one. 

Tea Cake. 

A small half cup of butter, three eggs, two cups of sugar, one 

■ cup of milk, thi-ee cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der mixed in the flour. Cream the butter, beat in the sugar thor- 

■ oughly, and then add each egg^ separately. Bake in a hot oven. 

Delicate Cake. 
One and a half cups of sugar, one and a half cups of flour, half 



32 CAKES. 

a cup of butter, half a cup of milk, half a cup of cornstarch, the 
whites of six eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

>Snoia Cake. 

Whites of ten eggs, one and a half cups of fine white sugar, 
one cup of flour, sift the sugar in the flour and cream of tartar. 
Bake in jelly tins. 

Icing for Cake. — One-fourth cup of extract of gelatine, half a 
a cup of warm water, two pounds of pulverized sugar. Dissolve 
the gelatine in the water, add to the sugar. Beat until very light, 
add two teaspoonfuls of vanilla. 

Lady Fingers — iVo. 1. 

To make them very nice for tea, rub half a pound of butter in- 
to a pound of flour, to this add half a pound of sugar, the juice 
and grated rind of one large lemon, and lastly, three eggs, the 
whites and yolks beaten separately, and the whites stirred in after 
all the other ingredients are well mixed together. This dough, if 
properly made, will be stiff enough to make rolls about the size of 
a lady's finger; it will spread when in the oven, so that it will be 
of the right size and shape. If you wish them to be especially 
inviting, dip them, into icing after they are baked. Take pains to 
see that the icing is so hard that it will not run, set the cakes on 
a platter in a cool room until the icing is firm. Best while fresh. 

Lady Fingers — iVo. 2. 

Four eggs beaten separately, three ounces of sugar, three ounces 
of flour, flavor with rosewater. Drop with a funnel on buttered 
paper, the length of a finger; bake moderately, and when done, 
stick the bottoms of two together. A wet cloth laid on the bot- 
tom of a cake dish will loosen a cake when it sticks. 

Icing for Cakes. 

Whites of two eggs, fifteen tablespoonfuls pulverized sugar, 
pour one-fourth of a quart of water over the sugar, and boil un- 
til clear and candied, but not brittle; joour the boiling sugar slowly 



CAKES. 33 

over the whites until cream, add half a teaspoonful of flour to one 
of vanilla. 

Icing. 

The whites of four eggs, three-fourths of a pound of fine sifted 
sugar, put the sugar into a bright kettle, pour over it three-fourths 
of a wineglass of water; when it boils up clear take off the fire 
stirring it constantly very hard until it is cool enough, not to cur- 
dle the eggs, add the whites of eggs, and ice the cake. 

Icing. 

One-fourth cup of Cox's Gelatine, lialf a cup of warm water,, 
two pounds of pulverized sugar, beat until very light, add two 
tablesjooonfuls of vanilla. Ice the cake. 

Lemon Icing. 

One pound of white sugar, half a tumbler of water, the juice of 
a small lemon or half a teaspoonful of cream of tartar; let it boil 
until it becomes a thick syrup, then pour it into an earthen bowl 
to cool, when cold enough, add the whites of three eggs, beat un- 
til white and smooth. 

Snoio Flalce Icing. 

Two cups of sugar, water enough to dissolve the sugar, boil 
without stirring for five minutes, try in cold water, when it has 
reached the firmness of jelly beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff 
froth and add to the sugar, stirring briskly until it is almost cold. 

Snoto FUikd Icing. 

Whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth, one large cup of 

granulated sugar moistened with four tablespoonfuls of hot water, 

boil sugar briskly for five minutes or until it jingles on the bottom 

of the cup when dropped into cold water, then pour the boiling 

syrup upon the beaten eggs in a small stream, beating hard with 

the right hand; if preferred, add half a pound of English walnuts 

or hickory nuts, chopped fine. 
3 



34 CAKES. 

Chocolate Icing. 

Three-fourths of a cup of chocolate, two cups of sugar, three 
tablespooiifuls of cream. Boil until thick enough to spread, stir- 
ring it constantly. 

Cocoaniit Filling. 

The whites of two eggs beaten stiff, half a pound of sugar, half 
a pound of grated eocoanut. 

Coloring for Icings. 

A little lemon juice whitens icing, strawberry juice or cranberry 
syrup gives a pretty pink shade. It may be colored yellow by 
using the yolk of an egg, or by putting the grated peel of a lemon 
or orange into a thin muslin l^ag and squeezing it hard into the eg^g^ 
and sugar. 

Filling for Orange Cake — JSFo. 1. 

Take the rind and juice of two oranges, or one lemon, one cup 
of sugar, one Qgg\ beat all together, put into a pan with a lump of 
butter, boil until stiff enough to cool; spread the layers. 

Filling for Orange Cake — No. 2. 

One cup of milk, two eggs well beaten, two tablespoonfuls of 

■ cornstarch, two oranges, rind of one, two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Put the milk on to boil, mix the cornstarch, smooth with a little 

milk, add the beaten eggs, the juice of oranges and grated rind of 

one, beat a little and pour in the boiling milk, stir until thick 

enough to spread. 

J^attilla Cream Filling. 

One pint of milk, two eggs, one cup of sugar, two tablespoon- 
'iuls of cornstarch, boil all together and then add half a cup of 
butter, and two tablespoonfuls of vanilla. 

Ch e ap Fi'osting. 

The white of one Qgg, break it into a bowl and add three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, beat until very light, then flavor and stir in a 



CAKES. 35 

little cornstarch and sugar to make it firm enough. Spread 
quickly and finish as you go. 

Small Cakes — Cookies^ Jumbles and Tarts. 

Six eggs, two cups of sugar, one and a half cups of jjutter, half 

.cup of milk, two teaspoonfulsof baking of powder. Hour enough to 

roll. 

( \iravxiy Cookies. 

Three cups of sugar, one cuj) of butter, four eggs, half cup of cold 
water, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, roll out thin, sprinkle 
with white sugar, two tablespoonfuls of caraway seed. Delicious. 

C ovia nder Cookies. 

Six eggs beaten light, two cups of sugar, one and a half pounds 
of butter, beat the butter and sugar until light, half a cup of 
milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, flour enough to roll, two 
tablespoonfuls of coriander seed. 

Cookies. 

Five eggs, beaten light, one and a half ])0unds of butter, two 
cups of white sugar, fovir tablespoonfuls of cream, two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder. When rolled out sprinkle with sugar, and 
roll again. Cut into small cakes. 

Clnnam on ( k)okies. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of sour cream, one egg, half a tea- 
spoonful of soda, a little salt; flavor with cinnamon. 

Lemon (Jookies. 

Six eggs, whites and yelks beaten separately, one cup of butter, 
three cups sugar, flour to make batter, just stiff" enough to be 
moulded with well floured hands, one grated lemon. Make into 
round cakes and bake in a quick oven. 

Chujer Cookies. 

One cup of sugar, two cups of molasses, one cup of butter, one cup 



36 CAKES. 

of sweet milk, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one tablespoonful of 

ginger, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, flour enough to roll 

thin. 

Cookies. 

Two cups of sugar, half a cup of butter, one egg, two- thirds of 

a cup of buttermilk, a level teaspoonful of soda, a little salt and 

nutmeg. 

Cookies. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of sour cream, one e^^g., half a tea- 
spoonful of soda, a little salt. Flavor with nutmeg or cinnamon. 

Almond Cookies. 

One and a half cups of butter, three cups of sugar, three-fourths 
of a pound of blanched almonds, chopped, with a teaspoonful of 
rose water over them, six eggs, three-fourths of a cup of milk, three 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Flavor with lemon. 

Cream Cookies. 

Three eggs, three cups of sugar, one and a half cups of butter, 
one cup of sour cream, one teaspoonful of soda, flour enovigh to 
make a dough as soft as it can be rolled. 

Eggless Cookies. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter and lard mixed, one cup of 
milk, two heaping teasj^oonfuls of baking powder, flour enough to 
stiffen them. Ice or wet them Avith the white of an egg and 
sprinkle broken almonds over them. 

Jmnhles. 

One pound of sugar, three-fourths of a pound of butter, three 
eo-gs, flour enough to make a very soft dough; roll very thin before 
cutting. Bake in a cool oven. 

Cocoanut Jumbles. 

Grate one cocoanut, half a pound of butter, half a pound of 
suo-ar; beat the sugar and butter to a cream, thin with three well 



CAKES. 37 

beaten eggs; stir in the nut gradually, making a stiff batter. Add 
a little rose water to vanilla. 

Jackson Jumbles. 

Three cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of sweet cream, 
two eggs, five cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Clay Jumbles. 

Three cups of sugar, two cups of butter, five cups of flour, two 
eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Flavor with rose water; 
roll in loaf sugar. 

Almond Jumbles. 

Half a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, four eggs, one 
cup of cream, or milk, three-fourths of a pound of almonds, 
blanched and chojDped fine, but not pounded, one pound of flour, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, two tablespoonfuls of rose 
water. Cream the butter and sugar, stir in the beaten yolks, add 
the cream, stir in the flour gradually, add the almonds and rose 
water, lastly the beaten whites very lightly and quickly. Drop in 
rings or round cakes upon buttered paper and bake immediately. 

Lemon Jumbles. 

Two cups of sugar, one large cup of butter, half a cup of sour 
cream, two small lemons, juice of two and grated rind of one, one 
level teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little water, flour enough 
to make a soft dough, as soft as it can be rolled. Cut with a cake 
cutter when baked, ice with boiled icing. 

Jumbles. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of butter, one pound of sifted 
flour, four eggs, ten drops of essence of lemon, one teaspoonful of 
cinnamon, one nutmeg, and half a glass of rose water. 

Sand Tarts— No. 1. 

Two cups of white sugar, one cup of butter, whites of three eggs, 
make stiff with flour and roll very thin, then dust with sugar and 



38 CAKES. 

roll over once; wet with the white of an egg and sprinkle with cin- 
namon. 

,Scmd Tarts— No. 2. 

One pound of white sugar, one pound of flour, ten ounces of 
butter, two eggs; roil out thin, then rub them with the white of 
an Qgg., and sprinkle cinnamon over white sugar, broken almonds. 

Sand 2\irts — No. 3. 

One pound of brown sugar, ten ounces of butter, yolks of three 
eggs, one pound of flour; roll in a thin sheet. Beat the whites, 
spread over the top, and sprinkle sugar and cinnamon over them. 
Cut out and bake. 

Sand Tarts— No. 4. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, three eggs, flour 
enough to make a soft dough, the white of one egg washed over 
the top; add a little cinnamon with jiowdered sugar on top. Roll 
very thin, cut out and bake. 

Sand Tarts — No. 5. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, one cup of butter, 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, flour enough to roll; cut in 
squares; sprinkle sugar over them. Bake in a quick oven. 

(rinfjer Cake — No. 1. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one and a half cups of 
sour cream, a small lump of l)urnt alum, put in the cream, five 
eggs, beat the whites and yolks separately, one tablespoonful of 
soda dissolved in a spoonful of vinegar. 

Ginger (Jake — No. 2. 

One quart of molasses, one pint of milk, half a pint of butter 
and lard mixed, two tablespoonfuls of soda dissolved in a little 
boiling water, four even tinfuls of flour, beat the yolk of an egg, 
add one teaspoonful of water, and rub over the top of the cakesr 
Mark ofP the cake in squares and set in the oven. 



CAKES. . 39 

Ginger Cake — iVo. 3. 

One tinful of molasses, two teacups of sugar, one teacup of lard 
and butter mixed, one tinful of buttermilk, two tablespoonfuls of 
soda, one teaspoonful of burnt alum dissolved in not qviite a half 
teacup of boiling water, three eggs, the yolks of two leave out. 
First put your sugar and molasses in the pan, then add the lard 
and two tablespoonfuls of soda; heat the buttermilk boiling hot 
and stir in, then the eggs well beaten, and burnt alum, add flour 
enough to make stiff, beat the two yolks, add a teaspoonful of 
water and rub over the top of the cakes. Mark off in squares ;. 
bake immediately. 

Ginger (Jake — iVo. 4. 

One pint of molasses, half a pint of sour milk, half a pint of 
butter and lard mixed, two teaspoonfuls of soda, one teaspoonful 
of cloves, two teas]ioonfuls of ginger, flour enough to make a soft 
dough, beat the yolk of an egg^ add one teaspoonful of water, rub 
over the top of the cakes to give a nice gloss. 

Sponge Ginger Bread — No. 1. 

One pint of New Orleans molasses, one pint of lard and butter,, 
mixed and melted, two cups of brown sugar, five eggs, beaten sep- 
arately, one pint of buttermilk, one tablespoonful of soda dissolved 
in a little of the milk, add just befoi'e the whites of the eggs, flour 
enough to make it tolerably stiff, one and a half tablespoonfuls of 
ginger. 

Spo)ige Ginger Bread — No. 2- 

Five cups of flour, one cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one 
cup of sour milk, one heaping tablespoonful of butter, two tea- 
spoonfuls of soda dissolved in hot water, one tablespoonful of gin- 
ger, one tablespoonful of cinnamon; mix the molasses, sugar, 
butter and spice together, warm them slightly, and beat until they 
are lighter in color by many degrees than when you began, add the 
milk and the soda and mix all well and add the flour; beat hard 
for five minutes, and bake in a broad, shallow pan. Haifa pound 



40 CAKES. 

of seeded raisins chopped fine and dredo^ed in flour will improve 

them. 

Soft Ginger Bread — N'o. 1. 

One pint of molasses, half a pint of lard and butter mixed, half 
a pint of sour milk, one cup of sugar, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of 
soda, one teaspoonful of ginger, two teaspoonfuls of cloves, flour 
enough to make stiff. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Soft Ginger Bread — N'o. 2. 

One pint of New Orleans molasses, half a pint of buttermilk, half 
a pint of butter and lard, two or three eggs, a little salt, one table- 
spoonful of soda, half a cup of sugar, flour enough to make a soft 
dough. 

Soft Ginger Bread — N'o. 3. 

One cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, two 
eggs, one cup of sour cream or buttermilk, one teaspoonful of soda, 
dissolved in hot water, one teaspoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful 
of cinnamon, four cups of flour, more if required. Stir butter, 
sugar, molasses and spice together to a light cream; set on the 
range until slightly warm, then beat the eggs light; add the milk, 
the eggs and soda, lastly the flour; beat very hard ten minutes 
and bake at once. 

Ginger Snaps — No. 1. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one 
tablespoonful of ginger, one tablespoonful of cloves, one table- 
spoonful of cinnamon, one level teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a 
tablespoonful of boiling water; enough flour to make stiff. 

Ginger Snaps — No. 2. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup of butter and 
lard, mixed, one small teaspoonful of soda dissolved in not quite a 
half cup of boiling water, pour the boiling water on the soda, put 
in last spice to taste. Make stiff, roll thin. 



CAKES. 41 

Ginger Snaps — JSTo. 3. 

One pint of molasses, one cup of butter; boil together and when 
cold add one level teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a tablespoonful 
of boiling water; spice to taste, flour enough to make a stiff 
dough; roll thin and bake in a moderately hot oven. 

Ginger /Snaps — JSTo. 4. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, flour enough to make 

a soft dough, the white of one egg washed over the top, add a 

little cinnamon, with powdered sugar; roll very thin; cut any 

shape. 

Wafers. 

Three cups of sugar, two cups of butter, two eggs, half a cup of 

rich milk, one small teaspoonful of soda, two nutmegs; roll out 

thin. 

Ginger Wafers. 

One cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, half a 
cup of cold coff'ee left from breakfast, two even teaspoonfuls of 
soda, one tablespoonful of ginger, and flour enough to make a stiflE 
dough. Knead it hard and roll very thin, and bake in a quick 

oven. 

Lemon /Snaps. 

Rub one-quarter of a pound of butter into one-half pound of 
flour, add one-half pound of moist sugar, one-half ounce of ground 
ginger, and the grated rind and juice of a lemon; mix with a little 
molasses to a paste thin enough to spread on tins. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven, and when done enough, cut it into strips while still on 
the tins, and then roll it around the fingers. When cold, put in a 
tin at once, or they will lose their crispness. 

Waffers. 

One pound of flour, two tablespoon fuls of butter, a little salt; 

mix with sweet milk into a stifi^ dough, roll out very thin, cut into 

round cakes and again roll these as thin as they can be handled; 

lift them carefully, lay in a pan and bake very quickly; paper and 



42 CAKES. 

flour the baking pan instead of greasing. These are extremely 
nice for invalids. 

Doughnuts — No. 1. 

Two tinfuls of sweet milk, one tinful of lard and butter mixed, 
one titiful of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, six or eight 
eggs beaten light, a little salt, flour to make a soft dough, 

DougJtnuts — No. 2. 

One pint of buttermilk, one cup of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of 
lard and butter mixed, one level spoonful of salt, one teaspoonful 
of baking soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, yolks of six eggs 
(two eggs will do). 

DotigJinuts — No. 3. 

Three-fourths of a cup of liutter, two cups of sugar, three eggs 
well beaten, half a nutmeg grated, one teaspoonful of soda, two 
cups of sour milk, seven and a half cups of sifted flour. 

DougJinuts — No. 4. 

Scald a pint of milk, one teacup of mixed butter and lard, rub 
shortning in a quart of flour; melt two teacups of sugar in milk ;. 
three eggs, one cup of yeast. Make into stiff batter in the even- 
ing, stand over night in a warm place; in the morning make into 
a soft dough, when near dinner time they will be light enough to 
roll out and fry in lard. 

Crullers — No. 1. 

One pound of sugar, one cup of sour milk, one teaspoonful of 
soda, four tablespoonfuls of melted butter, three eggs, one nutmeg, 
flour enough to roll. Fry in lard. 

Crullers— No. 2. 
Two cups of sugar, four eggs, two cups of buttermilk, one cup 
of butter; pearl-ash and nutmeg. 

Crullers. 
One pound of sugar, one teacupful of sour milk, three eggs, one 
teaspoonful of soda, butter the size of an eg^; liake in lard. 



CAKES. 43 

S)iov) Balls — JSFo. 1. 

One cup of sugar, two eggs, four tablespoonf uls of milk, one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar, one of soda, spice to your taste; flour 
to roll out in balls, fry in lard, dip in the whites of eggs, then in 
powdered loaf sugar till white. 

Snow Balls— No. 2. 
One cup of sugar, two eggs, four tablespoonfuls of milk, one 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one of soda, spice to your taste, 
flour to roll out in balls; fry in lard, dip in the whites of eggs, then 
in powdered loaf sugar till white. 

Snmo Balls — JSfo. 3. 
One pint of sweet cream, six eggs, flour to make a stiff dough; 
fry in lard. 

French Strav%^. 

Eight eggs, ten ounces of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon 
and nutmeg mixed. Beat the eggs, add sugar and spice and enough 
flour to make a dough. Roll out half an inch thick, cut in strips 
the length of your linger; give each one a twist, drop in hot lard. 
When cool sift sugar over them.; 

Crentylsiis. 

Two cvxps of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of milk, four eggs, 

one teaspoonful of soda, flour enough to make stiff. Cut in rings 

and bake in lard. 

Fufftts. 

One quart of flour, one-half teaspoonful of salt, butter the size of 
an &ggi two tablespoonfuls of white sugar, one pint of sweet milk, 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. In all such recipes sift the 
baking powder into the flour, beat the eggs separately, adding the 
whites last. Put the butter in the flour. Bake in gem pans in a 

hot oven. 

Gervian Puffs. 

One pound of sugar, four eggs, butter the size of a walnut, one 
cup of sour cream, one teaspoonful of soda. 



44 CAKES. 

Fl(fs—^^o. 1. 

One quart of flour, one of sweet milk, four eggs, butter the size 
of a walnut, one teaspoonful of soda. 

Fufs—J^o. 2. 

One pint of milk, three eggs beaten separately, one tablespoon- 
ful of flour, two tablespoonfuls of butter. Bake in cups twenty- 
minutes. Eat warm with dip. 

Puffs— No. 3. 

Three cups of sweet milk, three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of 
flour and a little salt. Mix these ingredients thoroughly. Drop a 
tablespoonful of this batter into a greased gem pan heated to abovit 
the degree you would heat waffle irons. Bake in a very hot oven. 

Fiffets. 

One quart of flour sifted, two heaping teaspoonfuls of bakmg 
powder, one-fourth of a pound of butter, or half a cupful rubbed in 
the flour, one pint of sweet milk, stir up ; drop in gem pans. Bake 
twenty minutes. 

Chocolate Puff's. , 

One pound of pulverized sugar, three ovxnces of chocolate, melt 
but do not leave it cook; whites of three eggs beaten very stiff, stirjthe 
sugar into the chocolate, then the whites of the eggs, roll out, cut into 
little squares about one-fourth of an inch thick, bake in a hot oven 
— not hot enough to burn. Sprinkle flour on the bottom of the pan 
to prevent their sticking. 

Joiiffle Puff's. 

Five eggs, one pint of boiling milk, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
one cup of flour. Pour the Vjoiling milk on the flour, add a small 
piece of butter; when cooled a little, add the yolks of the eggs 
well beaten and the sugar; lastly, the whites beaten stiff. Put in 
the oven as you sit down to dinner. Serve with soft sauce. 



CAKES. 45 

Cream Puffs. 

One cup of hot water, half a cup of butter. Boil the water and 
butter together and stir in a cupful of dry flour while boiling. 
When cool add three eggs not beaten. Mix well; drop by the ta- 
blespoonful on buttered tins. Bake in a quick oven twenty-five 
minutes. This makes fifteen puffs. 

To make the cream for the puffs, one cup of milk, half cup of 
sugar, one ^^^i three tablespoonfuls of flour, beat eggs and sugar 
together, add the flour, stir in the milk while boiling; flavor when 
cool when the puffs are fully open, and fill with cream. 

Crumpets — No. 1. 

Mix together thoroughly, while dry, one quart of sifted flour 
(loosely measured), two heaping teaspoonfuls of yeast powder and 
a little salt; then add two tablespoonfuls of melted butter and 
sweet milk enough to make a thin dough. Bake quickly in muffin 
rings or patty pans. 

Crumpets — iVo. 2. 

Take one quart of head dough ; break three eggs, separating 
yolks and whites; whip both to a light froth; mix with the dough 
and gradually add tepid water until the batter is of the consistency 
of buckwheat cakes. Beat well and let rise. Bake in small round 
cakes on a hot griddle. 

liosettes. 

Three eggs, the yolks beaten very light, add one quart of milk, 
butter size of an egg, cut in little pieces into the milk and eggs, 
add three cups of flour or enough to make a batter of the consistency 
of waffles, a little salt, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar and one 
of soda, last of all the whites of the eggs beaten very light and 
stirred quickly into the mixture. To be baked in a quick oven. 

Jluffins. 
Beat separately four eggs to a pint of sweet milk; a lump of 
l)utter the size of an egg, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder 
mixed with flour; make as thick as waffles; add a little salt. 



46 CAKES. 

Graham Muffins. 

One and one-half cui)S of sour milk, not quite a half teacupf ul of 

butter and lard, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of syrup, one teaspoon - 

ful of soda, one of salt; mix Graham with some wheat flour. Make 

as stiff as possible. 

Cora Muffins. 

Sift one quart of flour and one cup of corn meal with three large 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Cream together one cup of butter, 
one cup of sugar, and three eggs, beaten separately; add one pint 
of milk, then stir in flour and corn meal; drop with a spoon intc) 
well-larded muffin rings. Bake in a hot oven. 

Corn Muffi)is. 

One large cupful of sweet milk, one cup of buttermilk or sour 
cream, in which dissolve one -half teaspoonful of soda, one large 
tablespoonful of lard, one cup of boiled rice, one cup of corn meal, 
one tablespoonful of sugar, and two eggs. 

Tea Mvffins. 

One cup of sweet milk, one Q^<g., two and one-half cups of flour, 
a little salt, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful 

of soda. 

3Iorton House 3Tuffius. 

One-half a cup of butter, one- half a cup of sugar, one egg, one 
and two-thirds cups of sweet milk, one of Indian meal, two of flour, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

liaised Muffins. 

One quart of warm milk, butter the size of an egg., four eggs, 
one-half a tablespoonful of salt, one cup of yeast, flour enough to 
make a stiff batter, a tablespoonful of sugar. Raise it over night. 

3fuffins. 
One pint of milk, two eggs, a lunip of butter the size of an egg., 
one small cup of yeast, make a stiff batter, let it rise, bake in muf- 
fin rings. 



, CAKES. 47 

Hominy M^iffins. 

Two cups of hominy boiled cold, three eggs, sour milk; if sweet, 
add one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a cup of melted butter, 
two teaspoonfuls of salt, two tablespoonfuls of white sugar, one 
large cup of flour, one teaspoonful of soda. Beat the hominy smooth, 
stir in the milk, then the butter, next the eggs, which should just 
be well beaten, then the soda dissolved in hot water, lastly the 
flour. 

Rice 3£uffins—N'o. 1. 

One pint of boiled rice, one of sweet milk, five eggs, one-half a 
cup of butter and lard mixed, one pint of sponge and a pinch of 
salt. Beat the yolks of the eggs, rice and butter together, then 
add the sponge and milk, stir in enough flour to make a batter; 
let rise very light, beat the whites of the eggs and stir them in just 
before baking. 

Rice Bfuffins — iVo. 2. 

One cup of cold boiled rice, one pint of Hour, two eggs, enough 
milk to make a thin batter, one tablespoonful of butter, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, beat hard; bake quickly. 

Iluffins. 

One pint of warm milk, three or four eggs, lard the size of an Qgg, 
one teaspoonful of salt, and one-half of a cup of yeast; mix the 
flour stiff enough to drop from a spoon. Let it rise three hours 
in a warm room. 

Sally Lunn — N'o. 1. 

One-half of a teacupful of warmed butter in two pints of luilk 
with a little salt, three well beaten eggs, seven cups of sifted flour, 
and one-half of a cup of yeast. Pour into pans and bake when light. 

Sally Lunn — No. 2. 

One pint of mils, four eggs, four spoonfuls of sugar, one cup of 
butter, two spoonfuls of yeast, flour to make a batter, let it rise and 
, bake one hour. 



48 CAKES. 

Sally Lunn Without Yeast. 

One quart of flour, one-half pint of milk, two eggs, a piece of 
butter the size of an e^g, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, and two of cream of tartar or three of baking 
powder. Bake twenty minutes. 

JRusk. 

One cup of sugar, one-half a cup of butter, two eggs, six cups 
of flour, two of milk, four teaspoonfuls of" cream of tartar, two of 
soda, bake in a hot oven; eat warm. 

Siceet Hu^k. 

One quart of new milk, three tablespoonfuls of yeast, flour to 
make a thick batter, mix at night and in the morning add one cup 
of butter and lard mixed, and one cup of sugar rubbed together; 
three eggs well beaten, preserving the white of one beaten to a stiff 
froth with a little sugar to spread over the top. 

French Rolls. 

Two quarts of sifted flour, a little less than two ounces of butter, 
half a cup of yeast, one pint of new milk, whites of seven eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, one-half a teaspoonful of salt. Work half 
an hour at night, lay in a cloth and cover tight; in the morning 
mould into long pointed rolls and let them rise. Bake in a quick 
oven fifteen minutes. 

Parker House Rolls. 

Two quarts of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls 
of lard, one pint of scalded milk, half a cup of yeast, a scant half 
teacupful of white sugar, mix well the lard, salt and flour, when the 
milk is lukewarm then add the sugar and yeast, make a deep hole 
in the flour, pour in the mixture just covering it lightly with flour, 
let it rise seven or eight hours, then mix as soft bread, roll out, cut 
round, and lap over, putting a lump of butter between the laps, 
then let the rolls rise in the pan previous to baking. 



CAKES. 49 

Sioeet Ho lis. 

Take a piece of bread dough when moulded, one quart, roll 
out, sprinkle one small teacupful of sugar over a half cup of butter 
and three well beaten eggs, roll up and press through the douo-h 
with your hands until it is well mixed, make into cakes, let it rise, 
wash over the top of the cakes with the well beaten yolk of an egg, 
add a teaspoonful of water to the yolk. 

Pocket Books. 

Warm one quart of new milk, add three-fourths of a cup of but- 
ter, half a cup of sugar, three well beaten eggs, stir in flour enough 
to make a moderately stiff sponge, and three-fourths of a cup of 
yeast, set it in a warm place to rise which will take three or four 
hours, then mix in flour to make a soft dough, and let it rise again. 
When well raised roll into sheets one half an inch in thickness, 
spread with butter, sprinkle with cinnamon, cut into squares and 
fold over, pocket-book shape, put in pans to rise for a little while, 
when they will be ready for the oven. In the summer the sponge 
can be made in the morning and rise in time to make for tea; in 
cold weather it is best to set it over night. 

Cliinamon Rolls. 

Take light dough, mix in half a cup of butter two eggs, roll it 
out about one-fourth of an inch in thickness, spread with butter, 
then sprinkle well with sugar and cinnamon, roll it up, cut as you 
would biscuit, put in pans to raise; when light spread with butter, 
sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon and bake. 

Graham Breakfast Bolls. 

Two pounds of potatoes boiled and pressed through a colander, 
one pint of water, one-half a cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, 
and one-half a cup of yeast; mix into a stiff dough with Graham 
flour, let it rise over night, and in the morning mould into small 

cakes, when light bake in a hot oven. 
4 



50 CAKES. 

I^u?is, 'SVhifjs, Rye Drop (Jakes and Gems. 

One pint of water, one cup of yeast, one cup of sugar, one cup of 
butter, mix with this if you wish, one teaspoonful of salt, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. Take lukewarm water, stir your flour 
in, then add the yeast; let it rise over night. In the morning add 
the sugar, butter, and baking powder; just sprinkle it over with 
enough flour to make a soft dough, let it rise and make it into 
small cakes, and let it rise a third time. 

/Spanish J3uns. 

Two cups of sugar, one cap of sweet cream, one tablespoonful 
of butter, three eggs, two cups of flour, spice to your taste, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Jjuns — jVo. 1. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of butter, one pound of flour, 
one and one-half cups of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, four eggs, the whites and yolks beaten separately, spice to 
taste. Cream your butter, then add the sugar; beat them well to- 
gether, add the milk, the yolks of the eggs, then the flour and the 
whites of the eggs, last of all the baking powder. 

Buns—Xo. 2. 

Half pound of sugar, six ounces of butter, one pound of flour, 
one cup of milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Buns — JSTo. 3. 

Half a cup of yeast, three cups of water, one of milk, lukewarm, 
mix at night to a stiff sponge; in the morning add one cup of but- 
ter, one. cup of sugar, a little salt; mould into buns; let it rise, and 
bake in a hot oven. This will make between two and three dozen. 

Whu/s. 

One quart of flour, one pint of milk, three eggs, one-half a 
spoonful of melted butter, three teasjioonfuls of baking powder. 
Bake in muffin rings or cups. 



CAKES. 51 

llye Drop Cakes. 

To one pint of sour milk, or buttermilk, add three eggs, a small 
teaspoonful of soda, a little salt, enough rye meal to make a stiff 
batter, add the eggs to the milk before the meal, then the yolks 
and lastly the whites, well beaten. Bake in muffin rings or drop 

on a griddle. 

Brealfast Pvfs. 

One cup of milk, one cup of flour, two eggs, beaten separately, 
a pinch of salt and a little cream. Half till the cuj^s and bake 
three-quarters of an hour. 

Po2> Overs. 

One cupful of milk, one cupful of flour, one Qg,^, and one tea- 
spoonful of salt. Bake in gem pans and let them get hot before 
putting in the batter. Bake quickly and serve immediately. 

Cinnamon Gems. 

One cupful of sour milk, not quite a cupful of sugar, one e^^.^ 
one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of soda; stir thick 
with flour. Bake in gem pans. 

Gems. 

Three eggs, three pints of sweet milk, four tal:)lespoonfuls of 
melted butter, two cupfuls of flour, one of corn starch, one and a 
half cupfuls of corn meal, one tablespoonful of molasses, two of 
baking powder, a little salt. 

Graham Gems. 

Two eggs, two cups of sweet milk, one cup of Graham flour, one 
of wheat flour, and a little salt. Grease the pans with lard, heat 
them until they are very hot, fill almost full and bake half an hour. 

Corn Gems. 

One pint of corn meal, one pint of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one and a half cups of milk, 
sift the corn meal, flour, salt and powder together. Add the milk, 



I 



52 CAKES. 

mix into a firm batter. Fill well greased gem pans two-thirds full 
and bake in well heated oven fifteen minutes. 

Soda JiiscuU. 

Half pound of butter, three pints of flour, a little salt, one pint of 
sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Biscuit — Xo. 1. 

One large teaspoonful of baking powder, sifted in the flour, to 
one teacupf ul of water, one-fourth of a cup of lard, half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt; make stiff enough to roll out easily. 

Jjiscuit — No. 2. 

One teaspoonful of soda to a quart of flour, one tablespoouful of 
lard, sour cream enough to make a soft dough. 

JBiscuit — iVb. 3. 

One pint of buttermilk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one- 
fourth of a cup of lard. 

Biscuit — iVo. 4. 

One quart of flour, lard or butter the size of an egg, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder and a little salt, grind very fine and 
mix well in the flour, then the lard, not with sweet milk. 

Pound Biscuit. 

Two quarts of flour, one cup of lard, one cup of milk, one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. Pound fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Maryland Biscuit — iVo. 1. 

Rub one-half pound of lard into three pounds of flour; mix it 
up with water into a stiff dough; a little salt; pound three-quarters 
of an hour. Bake in a brick oven. 

3Iaryland Biscuit — iVo. 2. 

One pint of flour, a lump of butter the size of a walnut, milk 
enough to make a pretty soft dough, then pound until light. 



CAKES. 53 

French IMscuit. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of butter, ten eggs, one-half an 
ounce of pulverized hartshorn. 

Drop Biscuit. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, eight eggs well beaten, 
mix it well together. 

Love Rolls. 

Use parts as for pies or tarts, roll thin, cut in sheets, or roll the 
size of your hand, sprinkle with sugar thickly, and ground cinna- 
mon, roll up. Bake in a quick oven. 

Graham Biscuit. 

Three cups of Graham flour, one of white flour, three cups of 
milk, two tablespoonfuls of lard, one heaping tablespoonful of white 
sugar, one salt spoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of soda, two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream of tartar; mix and bake as you do the white 
biscuit. 

Corn Cake — No. 1. 

Three eggs, two cups of corn meal, one cup of flour, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, two tablespoonfuls of butter, four ta- 
blespoonfuls of sugar, sweet milk. Not too stiff. 

Corn Cake— No. 2. 

One pint of thick or sour milk, two eggs, one cup of sugar, a 
small lump of butter, one teaspoonful of soda, enough cornmeal to 
make a nice batter, not too stiff. Bake in a long, shallow pan. 

Corn Cake— No. 3. 

One pint of corn meal, one cup of sifted flour, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, one teaspoonful of salt, stir all together; half a 
cup of brown sugar, three eggs well beaten, butter the size of half 
an Qgg., one teacupful of sweet milk. If it seems too thick, add a 
little more milk; put in the melted butter the last thing. Bake in 
your irons in a quick oven twenty minutes. 



54 CAKES. 



liaised Corn Cakes. 



One quart of milk boiled and corn meal stirred in like thin mush, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one cup of lard, one-half a cup of sugai ; 
when cold add three eggs, one cup of yeast, make it stiff with wheat 
flour into a loaf, let it rise until light, roll out in cakes and let it 
rise again. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Strmobevvy Sponge CaJce. 

Make a sponge cake, and bake it in two thin layers in a long 
biscuit pan. Select ripe berries and place a thick layer of these 
with sugar sifted over them, between the layers of the sponge cake, 
while it is yet warm. Place a thick layer of the berries also over 
the top. Put a pint of sweet cream on the ice to cool, and when 
cold beat it to a froth and jDOur over the berries and cake when 
they are' cold. Cream cannot be beaten to a froth unless it is very 
cold. 

Orantje ISJiort Cake. 

One cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, two cups of sweet milk, 
yolks of two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, flour enough 
to roll out. Bake in two square pans; put orange between. 

Sauce for over the Short Cake — One pint of boiling water, 
sugar and corn starch, one teaspoonful of essence of lemon or va- 
nilla. Make as thick as jelly, then pour over oranges, with the 
beaten whites of two eggs, on top. 

Straioberry Short Cake. 

In one quart of flour mix one tstblespoonful of baking powder, 
a teaspoonful of salt, a teacupful of butter and milk enough to wet 
the flour; roll out, and bake in two square pans in a quick oven. 
Sugar the berries and spread between the cakes when done. 

Haspherry Short Cake. 

Make the same kind of a crust that you do for light, short bis- 
cuit, roll out and put in the pans. Roll to the thickness of one 
inch; bake quickly; when done take out and split them open, but- 



CAKES. 55 

ter the top crust; take a quart of red or black raspberries, put in 
this a teacupful of sugar, chop fine, and spread between crusts. 
Eat warm. 

Peach (Jake. 

Bake three sheets of sponge cake as for jelly cake; cut nice ripe 
peaches in thin slices; prepare cream by whipping sweetening, and 
adding flavor of vanilla, it' desired; put layers of peaches between 
the sheets of cake; pour cream over each layer, and over the top. 
To be eaten soon after it is prepared. 

(J ream Pie Cake. 

Three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of water, one cup of white 
sugar, one and a half cups of flour, one and a halt" teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder; add the whites of the eggs last. Bake quickly in 
two pans, split open, and spread the custard between ; sprinkle 
over the top with white sugar. 

Custard for Cream Pik. — One pint of sweet milk, one spoon- 
ful of corn starch, one and a half cups of sugar, one e^g., a piece of 
butter half the size of an ^gg., one teaspoonful of vanilla. Boil 
like corn starch. 

CracJxers. 

One pint of sweet milk, one-half teacupful of butter, one tea- 
spoonful of salt; pound and turn nine times, or more if you wish. 

Putter Crackers. 
Rub six ounces of butter with two pounds of flour, dissolve a 
couple of teaspoonfuls of salaratus in a little milk, strain it in the 
dough, add a teaspoonful of salt and just milk sufficient to enable 
you to roll it out. Beat it out thin with a rolling pin, sprinkle on 
flour and roll up; repeat this three times, then have it rolled out 
thin and cut into small crackers. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Poston Crackers. 
One pint of sugar, one quarter of a pound of butter, three eggs, 
one half a teaspoonful of soda in a tablespoonful of water, one pint 
of flour; mix flour and butter together. 



56 CAKES. 

Soda Crackers. 

To seven cups of flour add one half cup of lard, two teaspoon - 
fuls of baking- powder. Rub the ingredients well into the flour, 
add one cup and a half of water, work thoroughly, roll thin and 
bake in a quick oven. 

Waffles., Flannel Oa/i-es, Fritters., Tarts., and Mush. 
One quart of thick milk, two eggs beaten separately, a lump of 
butter the size of a walnut, a small teaspoonful of soda. 

Waffles— JVo. 2. 

Two tinfuls of rich milk, half a pint of sour cream, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda in the sour cream, four eggs, separate the whites from 
the yolks, beat the whites stiff, put salt in the milk, add the beaten 
yolks, make it in a thin batter, and lastly add the whites. 

Waffles— ISFo. 3. 

One pint of sour milk, one pint of sweet milk, six eggs beaten 
separately, a lump of butter the size of an egg, a little salt, a tea- 
spoonful of soda dissolved in a little of the sour milk, enough flour 
to make as stiff as flannel cakes. 

Flan)) el Cakes — No. 1. 
Two pints of buttermilk, five eggs, two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
one teaspoonful of soda in the buttermilk, half a teaspoonful of 
salt. Beat the eggs separately, put the salt in the milk, then the 
butter, add the yolks of the eggs, flour enough for a thin batter; 
whites of the eggs last. 

Flannel Cakes — JSFo. 2. 

Three pints of milk, a little salt, four eggs, one large cup of 
yeast, flour enough to thicken. 

Flannel Cakes — iVo. 3. 

One quart of buttermilk, one teaspoonful of soda in the butter- 
milk, two eggs beaten separately, a little salt, flour enough to make 
a nice batter, beaten whites. 



CAKES. 57 

Corn Flannel (Jakes. 

One quart of buttermilk, four eggs, one cup of flour, the rest 

Indian meal, one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of melted 

butter. 

Stale Bread (kike. 

Yolks of two eggs, bread mashed with boiling milk; set it to 
cool; two tablespoonfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one of 
baking powder, the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth: make a 
batter stiff enough to bake on the griddle. 

Duckicheat Cakes. 
One quart of Avater, one cup of wheat flour, one cup of Indian 
meal, the balance buckwheat, one tablespoonful of sugar, a little 
salt; stir into a batter and add half a cup of yeast; let rise over 
night; in the morning add a half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in 
a little water; a cup more of lukewarm water and flour; let rise. 

Graham Griddle Cakes. 

To two cups of buttermilk, sift and stir Graham flour to make a 
stiff batter so as to drop from a spoon, add salt to taste, beat thor- 
oughly. Much of the excellence of the cake depends upon the 
beating; it will then give the batter a polished appearance on top. 
To each pint of milk used add one even teaspoonful of soda, dis- 
solved in a little hot water; beat again; bake as soon as possible 
on a hot griddle slightly greased. Sometimes when the Graham 
flour is not first-class, one-third wheat flour is an improvement. 
Allow one teacupful of milk to each person. Eat with butter and 
home-made syrup. The syrup is made by adding a little water to 
coffee sugar, boiling until as required. 

A2)2)le Fritters. 

One quart of sifted flour with two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der, one quart of milk, a little salt, four well beaten eggs; cut 
sour apples thin and stir into it; drop one tablespoonful at a time 
into boiling lard; when brown lay into a colander to drain; ser ve 
hot. 



58 CAKES. 



Fish Fritters. 



Take the remains of any fish which has been served the previous 
day, remove all the bones, make it fine, add bread crumbs and 
mashed potatoes in equal quantities, mix together, and two well 
beaten eggs, a little cayenne pepper and anchovy sauc^; Ijeat it 
all up to a proper consistency, cut it into small cakes and fry them 
in boiling lard. Nice breakfast dish. 

Ziohster Fritters. 

Cut the meat of a cold boiled lobster into dice, add three-quarters 
of a cup of mushrooms, cut also into dice; season this mixture with 
celery, salt and cayenne pepper; put a piece of butter half the 
size of an eg^g into the sauce pan, and when it bubbles stir in a 
tablespoonful of flour; let the flour cook a little, then add a cup of 
cream and some finely minced parsley; stir until the same thick- 
ens, then add the other ingredients, and stir well until they become 
boiling hot; remove from the fire and stir in the well beaten yolks 
of three eggs, spread this mixture an inch thick upon a buttered 
dish and set it upon ice to become chilled, then cut it into small 
parallelograms and roll them in fi-itter batter or beaten eggs and 
bread crumbs. Fry in boiling lard. 

Clam Fritters. 

One dozen clams minced, one pint of milk, three eggs, liquor of 
the clams, salt and pepper, and add flour enough to make a thin 
batter. Fry in hot lard quickly. 

Ho^niny Fritters. 

Two teacups of cold boiled hominy, stir in one teacupful of 
sweet milk and a little salt, four tablespoonfuls of sifted flour, and 
a little butter, one egg to be added last. Fry a dark brown in hot 

lard. 

(yream Fritters. 

Take the yelks of four eggs, mix with them a pint of good 
cream, four ounces of sugar, a little salt, one teaspoon ful of baking 



CAKES. 59 

powder. Sprinkle sugar over and serve hot. To be fried in hot 
lard quickly. 

Corn I^Vitters. 

Grate twelve ears of corn, add three well beaten eggs, a little 
salt. Fry in lard and butter. 

Oyster fritters. 

Make a batter as for other fritters, stir in oysters, and fry in hot 
lard, one oyster in each spoonful. 

Chicken Fritters. 

Cut cold wasted or boiled chicken into small pieces and place in 
an earthen dish, season well with salt and pepper; let the meat 
stand one hour, then make a fritter batter and stir the pieces into 
it, drop by the spoonful into boiling fat and fry until a light brown; 
drain and serve immediately. Any kind of cold meat if tender 
can be used in this way. 

Gooseberry Tarts. 

Stew the gooseberries until the skins crack and are tender; 
sweeten them, and when cold pour into little shells of pastry. 
You can make and bake the pastry while the fruit is stewing, or if 
you wish to serve them warm bake all together. 

Ap2}le Tarts. 

Quarter and stew tart apples till soft enough to strain through a 
sieve ; to twelve large spoonfuls of the apples put three of melted 
butter, the juice and grated rind of a lemon, half a nutmeg, half a 
pint of miik, a wine-glass of wine, four beaten eggs, sugar to taste. 
Pour into little shells of pastry. 

Quince Tarts. 

Stew and strain six quinces mixed with a half a pound of sugar, 
half a pint of cream, four eggs, nutmeg to taste. Bake as above. 

Cranberry Tarts. 

Pick over and wash a pint of cranberries, and put in the pre- 



60 CAKES. 

serving kettle with a half a cup of water; now put half a pound 
of granulated sugar on top of the berries, set on the fire and stir 
fifteen minutes; stir often to prevent burning. Pour into baked 

pastry shells. 

Lemon Tarts. 

The juice and rind of one lemon, one cup of sugar, the yolks of 
two eggs, three tablespoonf uls of flour, one teacupf ul of milk ; line 
the shells with the custard and bake until done. Beat the whites 
of two eggs, add four tablespoonfuls of powdered white sugar and 
spread on the top. Brown lightly. 



m^s. 



ig ?M^_m^'l^ g^s^m g!ffi^[^.imjf^^^w^ 




■is 



BREAD. 



Hakinc/. 

Every one must learn by experience, and there are more tryinj^ 
failures in this direction than in any other. 

Food prepared in the best form maybe ruined by a fire which is 
either too hot or too slow. It is a mistake to think that the oven 
must be as hot as it can be without burning, all the time the ingre- 
dients are baking; only crackers and cookies require this amount 
of heat. For biscuits the oven should be equally hot when they 
are put in but should begin to cool a little before they are taken 
out; this makes them very light, but they require close watching 
to keep them from being burnt. They will bake in fifteen minutes. 
]f baked with the same heat that bread requires, they are heavy. 
For bread, gems made of Graham flour and water, and corn ])read, 
the fire should be built some time before they are put in, and begin 
to go down by the time they are light; for if the oven remains as 
hot as was necessary to make them rise, it will burn before thor- 
oughly baked through ; after the bread is light it should gradually 
go down to a steady heat; a little wood may be necessary to keep 
up the heat with some stoves. Cake requires a slower fire than 
bread, but it must not be too slow or the cake will not be thor- 
oughly baked through, and will fall when taken from the oven. If 
the fire is too hot at first it will crust over before it is light, and 
burst through the crust, and rise rough and homely. Test the oven 
by putting a teaspoonful of flour in; if it turns a good brown, it is 
right; if it burns, your oven is too hot. If the cake is large it should 
be raised a little from the oven by putting some nails or small 



62 BREAD. 

bits of iron under it. When it browns a little, spread over the top a 
greased paper. It is better to cut the paper the size of the cake 
and lay it over to prevent the edges from being burnt. Fruit pies 
require a hotter fire than cake, but steady from first to last. If too 
hot at first the crust will bake before the fruit is done. If too slow, 
toward the last the crust will dry up before the fruit is done. If 
too hot toward the last the fruit will stew out before the crust is 
baked. Custards require a slow fire. Too hot a. fire will make 
them boil and whey out before they are done. Pumpkin pies re- 
quire a fire as hot as can be without burning the crust 

Bread, Salt Mising Bread, Broion Bread, Yeast, Yeast Cakes. 
Bread— No. 1. 
Boil half a dozen medium-sized potatoes; when done, drain and 
mash very fine, then stir into the mashed potatoes, while hot, one 
large cup of flour; thin with cold water when lukewarm, add one 
cup of hop yeast; let rise over night, and in the morning take two 
or three quarts of lukewarm water and make a batter; put in the 
sponge and add one large tablespoonf ul of lard, half a cup of white 
sugar, one small tablespoonful of grated alum, mix into a soft 
sponge and let rise until light, then knead stiff, knead ten or fif- 
teen minutes, let rise again; when light, put in pans; let stand 

until light, then bake. 

Bread — No. 2. 

Six or eight potatoes; boil until they are soft; put two table- 
spoonfuls of flour in the vessel you intend making your yeast in; 
use your potato water and add sufficient water to it to make three 
pints, pour it boiling hot on the flour through the colander; mix 
it smooth^ then add the mashed potatoes; when lukewarm add half 
a cup of yeast. In the morning add a little more water to it; set 
your vessel in a crock of water a little more than lukewarm; when 
it gets warm stir in enough flour to make a soft sponge ; let it rise, 
and add two teaspoonf uls of salt, two tablespoonf uls of white sugar, 
lard the size of a walnut; knead half an hour. If you want your 
bread baked early in the morning, make your beer early in the 



BREAD. 63 

afternoon, and stir your sponge stiff at night, then it will be ready- 
to knead in the morning. 

Bread— No. 3. 

At three o'clock boil seven or eight medium-sized potatoes; 
mash very fine; put in water enough to make tolerably thin, then 
add a handful of salt, stir in a little flour; when cool enough add 
a cup of yeast. Have your flour brought down the day before you 
bake to warm. In the morning take enough flour to mix your 
sponge; fix it around the sides and over the bottom of your pan; 
dissolve half a teaspoonful of alum in half a pint of water. Meas- 
ure your water for your bread, pour the dissolved alum in the 
water, then the flour, then add two tablespoonfuls of melted lard, 
and your sponge, a small cup of sugar, and an egg beaten light; 
mix to a soft sponge and let rise; cover and keep warm. When 
light knead one hour, let rise, when light make into pans. Let 
rise and bake. 

Bread — JVo. 4. 

Take a medium-sized potato, boil in one pint of water until soft; 
mash the potato through a colander into flour enough to stiffen; let 
this stand two or three hours, then add one quart of lukewarm water 
and flour enough to make a stiff batter; add one half pint of 
yeast, then let stand over night; next morning add a small table- 
spoonful of salt, a lump of lard the size of an egg, then stiffen 
with flour. This makes four loaves of bread. 

Salt Mismg Bread. 

Three tablespoonfuls of new milk, one tablespoonful of sugar, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of soda; pour into these a pint 
of boiling water; let stand until cool enough to mix without scald- 
ing the flour; stir in flour to the consistency of pancake batter; 
set it in a vessel of warm Avater; keep the water warm, but not 
hot enough to scald the rising. It will require from five to nine 
hours to rise ; stir once in awhile until it commences to rise; when 
near the top of the vessel sift a pan of flour, take a quart of boiling 



64 BREAD. 

water and stir into the flour, let it stand until cool enough to mix 
without scalding the rising. Then mix in the rising and add a 
little more salt, set in a warm place to rise, when partly raised mix 
up into loaves and let rise until your pans are full; then bake 
three-fourths of an liour. 

Brown Bread. 

Take a quart of bread sponge that has been raised over night, a 
small cup of brown sugar, one-half a teaspoonful of soda dissolved 
in a little water, a well beaten %^'g^ a teaspoonful of salt, and a ta- 
blespoonful of melted lard; add enough unbolted flour to make a 
soft dough not quite as stifE as for white bread. Knead a quarter 
of an hour, let it rise, make it into small loaves, let rise and bake. 

Yeast — No. 1. 

Two quarts of boiling water, add a handful of hops, put them in 
a bag, grate seven common sized potatoes, one teacupful of sugar, 
one tablespoonful of salt. Boil the above together fifteen minutes, 
when lukewarm add your cup of yeast, boil the strength out of the 
hops and remove the bag before putting the other ingredients in. 
Stir constantly. Put it in a stone jar and cover tightly. Stir it 
before using. 

Yeast — No. 2. 

Pare nine large potatoes, pour three tinfuls of boiling water on 
them, boil until soft, then mash through a colander, and pour the 
water in which they were cooked over them, having it boiling hot; 
if you have not three tinfuls, add boiling water to make it that 
quantity; take a large handful of hops, put three tinfuls of cold 
water on them and boil until all the strength is out of them, then 
pour the hop water over the potatoes, add one cup of sugar, one 
cup of salt, one pint of yeast (which must be hop yeast). Make 
in the morning and let stand over night. Bottle, and shake well 
before using. 

Yeast Cakes. 

Take two or three handfuls of hops, put them into a small bag. 



BREAD. 65 

bf)il fifteen minutes in three pints of water; while the water is 
boiling hot pour it on as much flour as will make a stiff batter; 
when it is sufficiently cool, mix two or three yeast cakes which 
have been dissolved in warm water; set in a warm place, and when 
light, knead in as much Indian meal as you can and cut in small 
cakes and spread on boards to dry; when partly dry, crumble 
them in order to dry them quickly. 

Corn Mush. 

Let the water boil before the meal is stirred in, then pour the 
meal in regularly from the hand in a continuous stream, stirring 
all the time; allow the mush to boil ten minutes, then put in the salt 
and two tablespoonfuls of sugar. It is best not to put in the salt 
till the end of ten minutes, as it has a tendency to harden the meal 
and prevent its fully expanding. After the salt has been put in 
boil for another ten minutes. Set it back on the stove, let it boil an 
hour, stirring frequently; then dish. 

Oat Meal Mnsh. 

Put five tablespoonfuls of oat meal with one quart of cold water, 
add one tablespoonf ul of salt, let it cook slowly for one or two hours, 
adding hot water when needed. 

Oat Meal for BreaJcfast. 

Measure carefully one cup of oat meal, and three cups of cold 
water with a teaspoonful of salt, put it in a steamer of which the 
inside kettle is porcelain, and cook two hours after the water in the 
outside kettle boils. Let it get cold, and steam over in the morn- 
ing rapidly. Do not stir the oat meal after you put it in the steamer. 
This oat meal is dry and has none of that salve-like consistency, 
the state in which this breakfast dish is too often served. Crushed 
wheat is very nice cooked the same way, allowing four cups of 
water to every cup of wheat. 

Pearl Wheat. 

Take half a cup of pearl wheat, two cups of milk, and four cups 



66 BREAD. 

of water, with a scant teaspoonfal of salt. Let the milk and 
water boil up in a saucepan on the stove, then stir in the wheat and 
salt. Put the wheat in the inside kettle of a steamer to cook, pour- 
ing boiling water in the outside kettle around it. Boil it two hours. 
Let the steamer stand all night on the back of the range, and in the 
morning let it heat up slowly, as the fire comes up. The wheat 
will be ready to serve when breakfast is ready. 

Blackberry Mush. 

Take two quarts of blackberries, put them on to stew with a pint 
of water; when soft, rub through a sieve, then put them in the ket- 
tle again, sweeten, and thicken like mush with three tablespoon- 
fuls of cornstarch; pour into a mould, and serve cold with cream. 

Flour I'ests. 

The following rules to test good flour are given by an old dealer: 
First look at its color. If it is white, with a slightly yellow or 
straw-colored tint, it is a good sign. If it is very white, with bluish 
cast or with small black specks in it, the flour is not good. Sec- 
ond, examine its adhesiveness; wet and knead a little of it between 
the fingers: If it works dry and elastic, it is good; if it works soft 
and thick, it is poor. Flour made from spring wheat is often sticky. 
Third, throw a little lump of dry flour against a dry, smooth, per- 
pendicular surface; if it adheres in a lump, the flour has life in it; 
if it falls like powder, it is bad. Fourth, squeeze some of the flour 
in your hand, and if it retains the shape given by the pressure, 
that, too, is a good sign. It is safe to buy flour that will stand all 
these tests, and they are simple. 



PIES. 



Mich Pastry. 

Take a pound of flour, add a teaspoonful of salt, mix well through 
the flour, then add half a pound of shortening, either butter or lard, 
or both, to a pound of flour. Rub half of the shortening with two- 
thirds of the flour; after the shortening and flour are thoroughly- 
rubbed together add enough cold water to moisten, so that the pas- 
try can be rolled out easily. Divide the pastry into two equal parts, 
reserving one for the upper crust. Roll out that for the under 
p crust very thin, using flour on the roller and moulding board to 
prevent sticking to them. Grease your pie plates and line them 
with the pastry. Roll out that reserved for the uj^per crust quite 
thin. Spread on the remainder of the shortening with a knife, 
butter being the only shortening that can be used for spreading. 
Sprinkle over the remainder of the flour, roll it up and use it to 
cover the pies. The crust should be rolled from you. Frequent 
rolling will make it more flaky. Trim the edges with a knife after 
covering the pie. Press the crust down to prevent the juice of 
the fruit from running out while baking. Make small cuts in the 
centres of juicy fruit pies. If the shortening is too warm the crust 
will not be flaky. 

French Pt(ff Paste. 

One pound of flour, three-fourths of a pound of butter, the yolk 
of one Qggi cold water sufficient to make a stifE dough. Rub half 
the butter into the flour. Stir the beaten egg into half a cup of 
water, and work into a stiff dough; roll out thin, spread with one- 
third of the remaining butter, fold it closely, roll it out again, and 



68 PIES. 

go on until the butter is used up. Roll out very thin, and set the 
last folded roll in a very cold place ten or fifteen minutes before 
making out the crust. 

Pastry— No. 1. 

Two and a half cups of flour, add one teaspoonful of salt, mix 
well through the flour, and add a cup of lard ; rub it lightly through 
the flour, moisten it with a little water, and mould as little as pos- 
sible. This makes three pies. 

Pastry— No. 2. 

One pound of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of 
sugar, half a pound of shortening, water enough to mix well. 

Pie Crust. 

Take three cups of flour, one small tablespoonful of salt, three- 
fourths of a cup of lard, and water enough to mix it. Add only a 
little water at a time, mixing as you add. 

Plain Pie Crust. 

Three cups of flour, one small tablespoonful of salt; mix it through 
the flour, then add half a cup of shortening; rub it lightly through 
the flour, water enough to mix ; mould as little as possible. This 
makes crust for two pies. 

Vol Au Vent. 

The name signifies in French, something that will fly away in 
the wind. Roll out some puff paste thin and cut it neatly into 
shapes either square or circular. Bake every one separately on a 
flat tin pan, cutting a round hole in the centre of each upper crust. 
The lower cake must not be perforated. Fill with oysters cold, 
lobster or chicken, chopped and seasoned, or any kind of fresh 
berries sweetened. 

Cocoamit Pie — No. 1. 

One cup of sugar, butter the size of an egg, boil two minutes 
and let it cool, add half a cocoanut, grated, and juice of half a 



PIES. 69 

lemon and yolks of four eg'gs, add the whites last, beat to a stiff 
froth. Bake half an hour. This makes two pies. 

Cocoanut Pie — No. 2.- 

Grate the white part of one cocoanut, put it into a quart of new 
milk, using the milk of the nut if saved, simmer it over a moder- 
ate fire for fifteen minutes, then mix four large spoonfuls of white 
sugar with it, two of melted butter, a small cracker pounded fine, 
half a nutmeg; add when cool juice of half a lemon, five eggs 
beaten to a froth; turn this mixture into deep platters that have a 
rim, line with pastry, and bake immediately in a quick oven. They 
should not be eaten until cool. 

' (Jocoanut Pie — JSFo. 3. 

One pint of milk, one heaping cup of cocoanut, one cup of sugar, 
yolks of three eggs; beat the yolks of the eggs and sugar together, 
stir in the milk and cocoanut and bake; beat the whites of the eggs 
with three tablespoonfuls of sugar, spread over the top and brown. 

Cocoanut l^arts. 

Line small tins with nice, light crust, and fill with this mix- 
ture : Dissolve a quarter of a pound of sugar in a little water, add 
as much grated cocoanut as you can stir in and have it well mixed 
with the sugar. Let this simmer slowly for a few minutes, then 
when it cools add the yolks of two eggs. Fill the tins and bake 
for ten minutes in a quick oven. Cover the top with a meringue 
made of the whites of the eggs and two tablespoonfuls of the 
sugar. 

Chocolate Pie. 

First make a cream or custard pie, reserving for frosting the 
whites of three eggs using the yolks and one or two whole eggs 
for the pie. While your pie is baking scrape very fine two table- 
spoonfuls of chocolate and place it on the back part of the stove to 
melt; now beat the whites of the eggs and add six teaspoonfuls of 
pvilverized sugar; when the chocolate is melted stir a little of the 



70 PIES. 

pulverized sugar into it, beating it very hard; add a little at a 
time until all is added. When the pie is done pour the frosting 
on the top and return to the oven for five minutes. 

Ajijjle Custard Pie. 

Take as much cold apple sauce as will partly fill two large or 
three small pie platters ; mix the yolks of six eggs with the sweet- 
ened apple sauce; bake your pies, and then beat the whites and 
take half a pound of sugar and make an icing; put on the pies 
when cold; then set them in the stove again a few minutes until 
there is a hard crust on top, but not brown. 

P/onjykin Fie— No. 1. 

One quart of pumpkin sweetened and strained, three pints of 
cream, nine beaten eggs, sugar, mace, nutmeg and ginger. 

Pumpkin Pie — No. 2. 

One quart of sweetened pumpkin, nine eggs, whites and yolks 
beaten separately, two quarts of milk, one teaspoonful of mace, 
one yutmeg, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one and a half cups of 
white sugar; heat all well. Bake without cover. 

Pumpkin Pie — No. 3. 

One pint of milk, one cup of pumpkin, one tablespoonful of flour, 
two well beaten eggs, a little nutmeg, or a drop of orange oil. 

Cream Pie. 

One pint of milk, two eggs, one cup of sugar, half a cup of flour, 
boil the milk, stir in the eggs and flour and sugar mixed together, 
boil it again until quite thick. Bake the crust and flavor with 
lemon. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, dissolve one 
teaspoonful of cornstarch, pour over it one half cup of boiling water; 
let it boil a few minutes and add four tablespoonfuls of sugar, add 
the whites of the eggs and beat until cold; pour over the custard 
and set it in the oven a few minutes to brown. 



PIES. 71 

Lietnon (Jream Pie. 

One cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of butter, one egg, one lemon, 
juice and rind, one cup of boiling milk, one tablespoonful of corn- 
starch dissolved in a little milk. Cream, Initter and sugar, and add 
cornstarch and egg last. 

Lemon Pie — Xo. 1. 

The juice and rind of one lemon, one cup of sugar; the yolks of 
two eggs, three tablespoonfuls of flour, milk to fill the platter; line 
the platter with paste, pour in the custard and bake until done. 
Beat the whites of two eggs, add four tablespoonfuls of powdered 
white sugar, and spread on the custard; brown lightly in the oven. 

Jjemon Pie — Xo. 2. 

Grate one lemon, add a small piece of butter, a large cup of su- 
gar, the yolks of two eggs, one teaspoonful of flour, and half a cup 
of water. Beat well together, bake in a rich paste without an up- 
per crust. Wliile the pie is baking l)eat the whites of the eggs 
with a little powdered loaf sugar into a light frosting, spread on 
the top of the pie, put it back into the oven a few minutes to brown 
very lightly. 

Lemon Pie — Xo. 3. 

Two lemons, thi*ee cups of sugar, yolks of six Qgg^-, two cup? of 
sweet milk, two tablespoonfuls of flour, grate the lemons, then stir 
in the sugar; after the sugar and lemons are well mixed, add the 
other ingredients; roll a nice crust, spread your custard on it; .take 
the whites, beat them to a stift" froth, and mix with eight tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar. When the pie is well <Ioue, and cool, spread on the 
frosting, and let it brown. 

Ljemon Pie — Xo. 4. 

The juice'"and rind of one lemon, one cup of sugar, the yolks of 
two eggs, six tablespoonfuls of flour (not heaping, but a little more 
than level), mix smooth with a little milk or water, then add the 
well beaten yolks to the flour. Set a pint of milk on the stove, add 



72 PIES. 

a little salt, and as soon as it com3S to a boil stir in the flour, sugar 
and lemon, stirring constantly until thick enough. Pour into 
baked pie crust and let stand to cool. This pie is not to be baked, 
only set in the oven to brown the frosting. 

Fkostino for Lemon' Pie. — Beat the whites to a stiff froth, mix 
one teaspoonful of corn starch smooth in a little cold water. Pour 
over it one-half a cup of boiling water; let it boil a few minutes 
and add four tablespoonfuls of sugar; boil until it looks clear; re- 
move from the fire and add the beaten whites, beat until cold and 
spread over the <5ustard. Set in the oven ; brown a delicate 

brown. 

Lemon Pie — JSfo. '). 

The juice and rind of one lemon, one cup of sugar, the yolks of 
two eggs, three tablespoonfuls of flour, milk to fill the pie plate, 
line the plate with paste, pour in the custard and bake until it is done. 
Beat the whites of two eggs, add four tablespoonfuls of pulverized 
white sugar; spread on the pie, brown lightly in tlie oven. 

Cracker Pie. 

Three grated crackers, one pint of new milk, a piece of butter 
the size of a walnut, one cup of sugar, four eggs, one grated lemon 
put in just before setting in the oven. This will make one pie. 

Silver Pie. 

One large potato, the yolks of two eggs, one grated lemon, one 
cup of sugar, one cup of water. First grate potato and lemon, then 
add sugar and eggs; bake, and when done, ice. 

Icing for the top of Silver Pie. — Beat the whites to a stiff 
froth, dissolve one teaspoonful of cornstarch, pour over it one-half 
a cup of boiling water, let it boil a few minutes, add four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, and whites of the eggs; beat it until cold, pour 
it over the custard; set it in the oven a few minutes To brown. 

Shoo- Fly Pie. 
One cup of molasses, one cup of water, one teaspoonful of soda, 
mix this together; have the water hot; one cup of butter, one cup 



PIES. 73 

of sugar, three cups of flour; make this into crumbs, line your pie 
dish, put in the molasses first, then the crumbs. 

Custard Pie. 

Five eggs to a quart of milk; nutmeg and sugar to taste. 

Ginger Pie. 

One pint of molasses, one teacupful of butter, one pint of but- 
termilk, one tablespoonful of soda. To be baked in haste. 

Orange Pie. 

Juice of two oranges, rind of one, juice of one lemon, one cup of 
sugar, the yolks of two eggs, six tablespoonf uls of flour, not heap- 
ing, but a little more than level, mix smooth with a little milk or 
water, then add the well beaten yolks to the flour; set a pint of 
milk on the stove, add a little salt as soon as it comes to a boil, 
stir in the flour, sugar, oranges and juice of the lemon, stirring 
constantly until thick enough. Pour into baked pie crust and let 
stand to cool. This pie is not to be baked, only set in the oven 
to brown the frosting. 

Frosting for Orange Pie. — Beat the whites that were left 
from the orange pie to a stiff" froth, mix one teaspoonful of corn- 
starch smooth in a little cold water; pour over it one-half cup of 
boiling water (be particular to have no more water), let it boil a 
few minutes, and add four tablespoonfuls of sugar, boil until it 
looks clear, remove from the fire, and add the beaten whites; beat 
until cold, and spread over the custard. Set in the oven to brown 
a delicate brown. 

Pine-apjjle Pie. 

To one teacupful of grated pine -apple add one-half teacupful 
of sugar, one cup of cream, one grated cracker, yolks of three eggs ; 
reserve the whites for icing. 

Ri}:>e Currant Pie. 

Stem your currants and wash them; line your pie plates wit h 
paste; fill them with the fruit and add sugar in the proportion of 



74 PIES. 

half a pound to one of currants, sprinkle flour over the top, cover 
with top crust, leave an opening in the centre and bake. 

Green Currant Pie. 

The fruit must be its full size before it is picked. Stem the 
currants and wash them, then pour enough boiling water over 
them to cover them, and let them stand while you prepare the 
paste. Line the bottom of your pie plates with paste, drain your 
fruit through the colander and fill your plates, adding three-quar- 
ters of a pound of sugar to a pint of currants; sprinkle a little flour 
over the top, and cover with the top crust; leave an opening in 
the centre. The pie requires no water — a sufficient quantity will 
adhere to the fruit. 

Gooseberry Pie. 

Pick off the stems and blossoms of your gooseberries, wash them, 
and pour enougli boiling water over to cover them. Let them 
stand a few minutes aud then drain them. Line your pie plates 
with pastry, fill them with the fruit, and add three-fourths of a 
pound of sugar to a pint of fruit; sprinkle flour over the top and 
cover with the top crust; leave an opening in the centre. 

Mock Apple Pie. 

Two cups of bread crumbs, two cups of sugar, four of water, two 
eggs, two teaspoonfuls of tartaric acid. 

Ajyjda Pie. 

Line a deep pie plate with rich pastry. Pare sovn- apples — green- 
ings are best — and cut them in very thin slices. Allow one cup 
of sugar and a quarter of a grated nutmeg mixed with it. Fill the 
pie-dish heaping full of the sliced apples, sprinkling the sugar be- 
tween the layers. It will require not less than six good sized ap- 
apples. Wet the edge of the pie with cold water; lay on the cover 
and press it down securely that no juice may escape. Bake three- 
quarters of an hour or even less, if the apples become tender. It 
is important that the apples should be well done, but not over-done. 



PIES. 75 

Rhuharh Pie — No 1. 

To give consistency to a pie-plant, allow to one coffee-cupful of 
pulp one heaping- tablespoonful of cornstarch, then mix this with 
the yolks of three eggs, and use the whites for a meringue. 

Ehuharh Pie— No 2. 
Strip off the skin and cut it into small pieces half an inch long, 
pour boiling water over it and let it simmer a few minutes; pour 
off the water, cover it again with boiling water and add a little or- 
ange rind; sweeten to taste. Line a pie plate with paste, and when 
the rhubarb is cold enough, fill it, and sprinkle a little flour over 
it and cover it with pastry. 

Mince Pie — No. 1. 
One and a half pounds of meat, one pound of suet, five pounds 
of chopped apples. Cider. Spice to suit the taste. 

3Iirice Pie— No. 2. 
Two pounds of beef, one pound of suet, five pounds of ajiples, 
two pounds of raisins, two pounds of currants, two tal)lespoonfuls 
of cinnamon, two of maize, one of cloves, one of allspice, a little 
salt, two pounds of sugar, cider. 

Temperance Mince Pie. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup of vinegar, one 

cup of flour, four cups of water, one-fourth of a pound of raisins, 

one-fourth of a pound of currants, one leinon grated, one teaspoon- 

ful of soda, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of cloves. 

Mince Meat for Pies. 
To nine pounds of meat after it is boiled and prepared add 
three pounds of suet, six pounds of raisins, ten pounds of sugar, 
four pounds of currants, half a pound of citron, one ounce of grated 
nutmeg, one-fourth of a pound of cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls of 
ground mace, five pints of sweet cider, add lemon and fresh apples 
each time before baking. Put on enough brandy to keep the 
meat when you pack. 



76 ' PIES. 

Mince Meat. 
Five pounds of chopped meat, two pounds of suet, four pounds 
of raisins, two pounds of currants, six pounds of sugar, three nut- 
megs, two ounces of cinnamon, one pound of citron, grated rind of 
one lemon, juice of two lemons, two quarts of cider, boil with some 
of the sugar until thick syrup, mix well with one-third apples. 
When you pack you can add liquor, if desired. 

Mock Mince Meat. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup of vinegar, one 

cup of flour, four cups of water, one-fourth of a pound of raisins, 

one-fourth of a pound of currants, one lemon, grated, one teaspoon- 

ful of soda, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of 

cloves. 

Maisin Pie. 

One egg, half a cup of raisins, well stirred, one cup of sweet 
cream, sugar to taste. Bake with two crusts. 

Savory Lamb Pie. 

Take lamb's sweetbreads par-boiled, one pound and a half; one 
pound and a half of lamb, boil together half an hour, season with 
salt and pepper, stew them in just sufficient water to cover them; 
when tender lift them out and cut the meat and sweetbreads into 
small pieces, add three hard boiled eggs chopped fine, six large 
soda crackers grated. Tine a deep pie plate with rich pastry and 
fill it with the mixture; add sufficient broth to make it moist and 
bake with an upper crust. Thicken the balance of the broth with 
a little butter and flour well mixed together; add it to the broth 
and boil it a few minutes. Serve with the pie. Bake the pie un- 
til the crust is done. 

Peach Pie. 

Peel and slice the peaches, line a pie plate with the crust and 
lay in your fruit, sprinkling sugar over them in proportion to their 
sweetness, add a tablespoonful of water, sprinkle a little flour over 
and bake with an upper crust. 






PIES. 77 

Dried Peach Pie. 

Pick and wash them well, then pour boiling water over enough 
to cover them; let them soak over night. In the morning put the 
peaches with the water they were soaked in into your stew pan; 
if they have absorbed all the water and are nearly dry, add a little 
more. Cook them slowly. When perfectly soft, pass them thi ough 
a sieve, and sugar to taste. Line your pie plate with pastry, fill 
and cover with an upper crust. Dried apple pies can be made the 
same way. 

Dried Apple Pie. 

Soak the apples until nearly soft enough, then stew until soft 
enough to go through a colander, or a wire sieve is better, flavor 
with lemon, add sugar to taste, an ^^^ well beaten to each 
pie, and a small lump of butter the size of a hickory nut; add a 
tablespoonful of nice sweet cream for each pie. Mix all nicely to- 
gether and bake with top and bottom crust. 

Oyster Pie. 

Two quarts of oysters, one dozen of hard-boiled eggs; heat the 
oysters before putting them in ; first a layer of oysters, then a 
layer of chopped eggs, add butter, salt, pepper, and sprinkle a ta- 
blespoonful of flour over it; proceed in the same manner until the 
oysters are in the pan. Cover the top with pie crust and let it 
run down the sides. 

3Iaryland Pie. 

Pare six medium-sized potatoes, cover with boiling water; boil 
until they are soft, mash them with a little milk and salt. Butter 
a small pudding dish, and put some of the potato around the sides. 
Lay in slices of cold mutton or beef — that which is a little rare is 
best — season with pepper and salt, a wine glass full of catsup, and 
enough gravy to make the meat quite moist; cover with mashed 
potatoes. Score it with a knife, and bake in the oven about forty 
minutes; iust as it begins to brown rub a little butter over the top. 



PUDDINGS. 



Puddings should be boiled in a bag made of thick cotton cloth, 
or moulds, liefore putting in the pudding the bag should be wrung 
out of hot water and floured on the inside. If the bag be filled too 
full it will burst. Be careful to make allowance for swelling. In- 
dian and batter puddings require a great deal of room, as they 
swell more than other kinds. Place an old plate at the bottom of 
the pot in which you boil the pudding, to prevent sticking. The 
water should be boiling when you put the pudding in. Turn the 
bag shortly after putting the pudding in, to prevent its settling and 
becoming heavy. Keep the water boiling until the pudding is 
done; add boiling water as it boils. When done dip the bag in 
cold water for a moment, so that it will turn out easily. Boil pud- 
dings in a vessel set in Ijoiling water. 

ISnow Pudding — iVo. 1. 

One pint of boiling w^ater to half a box of gelatine, add the juice 
of one lemon, and two cups of sugar, strain the gelatine, when 
nearly cold add the whites of three eggs, well beaten, and beat the 
whole well together. Place it in a glass dish and pour the custard 
around the base of the jellied part. 

Custard. — The yolks of the eggs, one pint of milk, one tea- 
spoonful of cornstarch; flavor with vanilla, and cook as you do soft 

custard. 

/S)ann Puddimj — N'o. 2. 

Half a box of gelatine, half a pint of boiling water, one cup of 
suo-ar, juice of one lemon, four eggs, little more than a pint of milk. 



PUDDINGS. 79 



Pour the water over the gelatine, stirring until it is dissolved; then 
put in the sugar; when you take it off add the lemon. When it is 
cold and it begins to jelly beat in the whites beaten stiff. 

For the Custard. — Take the yolks and milk, sweeten, and fla- 
vor with vanilla. Boil it until thick; pour it around the pudding. 

Orange Pudding — No. 1. 
Take four good sized oranges, peel, seed, and cut them into 
small pieces; add a cup of sugar and let it stand. Into one quart 
of nearly boiling milk stir three tablespoonfuls of cornstarch mixed 
with a little water and the yolks of three eggs well beaten. When 
done stir in the oranges, make a frosting of the whites of the eggs 
and half a cup of sugar; spread it over the top of the pudding and 
place it for a few minutes in the oven to brown. 

Orange Pudding — JSTo. 2. 
One quart of sweet milk, eight eggs, one cup of rolled crackers, 
one cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, one wineglass of wine, two 
grated oranges. Rub the butter and sugar to a cream, then add 
the wine, next the oranges, fifth, the eggs well beaten, sixth, the 
milk, seventh, the crackers. Bake in a deep dish lined with puff 
paste half an hour. 

Orange Pudding — iVo. 3- 
Quarter five good-sized oranges into your pudding dish, sprinkle 
with powdered sugar, then boil four tablespoonfuls of cornstarch 
and a quart of milk, the yolks of four eggs, and pour over the 
oranges; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and set in the 
oven to brown. 

Orange Pudding — No. 4. 

Slice six oranges, sprinkle sugar over them, make a sauce of one 
pint of boiling water, with sugar and cornstarch, one teaspoonful 
of essence of lemon; make as thick as jelly, then pour over the 
-oranges; beat the whites of two eggs and spread over the top. 

Pixie Pudding. 
One pint of milk, three eggs, two soda crackers, rolled, one 



80 PUDDINGS. 



lemon, half a cup of sugar, a lump of butter the size of a walnut, 
rub the sugar and butter to a cream, then add the lemon, next the 
eggs, well beaten, then the milk, lastly the crackers. Bake in a pud- 
ding dish. If you wish, you can add the whites of two eggs and ice 
with silver pie icing and brown a nice brown after the pudding is 

baked. 

Lemon Pudding — No. 1. 

One quart of milk, one pint of bread crumbs, one pound of sugar, 
six eggs, two lemons; mix bread crumbs, milk, rind of lemons, 
yolks of the eggs, and sugar, together; bake when done. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add four tablespoonfuls of the 
sugar and juice of the lemons, and spiead over the top of the pud- 
dins:. Put in the oven, brown and serve. 

Lemon Pudding — No. 2. 

The rind of one lemon, one cup of sugar, one pint of bread 
crumbs, one quart of new milk, yolks of four eggs, small lump of 
butter; mix all together and set in the oven to bake. 

Ici>,T(j. — Take the whites of four eggs, beat to a stifE froth, add 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar, juice of one lemon; spread on the 
pudding and brown. 

Lemon Pudding — JVo. 3. 

One quart of milk, two cupfuls of grated bread crumbs, yolks of 
four eggs, half a cup of butter, one cup of fine sugar, lemon juice 
and rind. Bake in a custard disli. When slightly brown, cover 
with meringue made of the whites of the eggs and four tablespoon- 
fuls of the sugar. 

Enjoyable Pudding. 

Dissolve one cup of Cox's gelatine in a cup of cold water; add 
three pints of milk, a little salt, five tablespoonfuls of sugar. Set 
it in a kettle of water, stir until the whole boils; take it off, beat in 
rapidly the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth. Flavor with va- 
nilla or lemon, set it away to cool and serve it cold with sauce. 

Sauce. — Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, three eggs, a ta- 



PUDDINGS. 81 



blespoonful of wine; mix it together, bring it to a boil, and serve 
it hot. 

Cocoanut Pudding — N^^o. 1. 

One pound of grated cocoanut, one pound of sugar, seven eggs, 
leaving out the whites of four, one-fourth of a pound of butter, half 
a pint of sweet cream. Stir all together, and bake in a puff ]3aste 
half an hour. 

Cocoanut Pudding — ^Vo. 2. 

To one cocoanut take two tablespoonfuls of butter, two cups of 
sugar, six eggs, omitting the whites of two, one and one-half pints 
of sweet milk. Beat the butter and sugar together, and beat the 
eggs separately; add the cocoanut last, just before you put it into 
the stove. 

Cocoanut Pudding — iVo. 3. 

One and a half pounds of sugar, one and a half ounces of 
butter, one grated cocoanut, seven eggs, three tablespoonfuls of 
flour. 

Cocoanut and Pice Pudding. 

Boil one cup of rice in milk until soft, then while it is hot stir 
into it one-fourth of a pound of butter, then add the yolks of six 
eggs, well beaten, one-fourth of a pound of sugar, one grated co- 
coanut, one tablespoonful of rose water or the grated rind of a 
lemon, stir in the whites of four eggs, beaten stiff; when cool 
spread over the top the whites of two eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, 
with some sugar and the juice of a lemon. Color it a nice brown. 

Cocoanut Pudding in Cups. 

One cup of sugar, butter the size of an Qgg^ boil two minutes 
and let it cool; add half a cocoanut, grated, juicfe of half a lemon, 
and the yolks of four eggs; add the whites last, beat to a stiff froth; 
bake half an hour. This makes seven cups. 

Green Corn Pudding — No. 1. 

Grate green corn; to three cups of it when grated add two 
6 



83 PUDDINGS. 



quarts of milk, two spoonfuls of salt, half a cup of melted butter, 
six beaten eggs. Bake it one hour. Serve it with meat. 

Green Corn Pudding — iVo. 2. 

One quart of grated corn, one-fourth of a pound of butter, one 
pint of milk, two eggs, one tablespoonful of flour, salt to your taste; 
beat well together, and bake three-fourths of an hour in a slow 
oven. 

Cornstarch Pudding. 

One quart of milk, five eggs, two large tablespoonfuls of corn- 
starch, three-fourths of a cup of sugar. Boil. 

Cabinet Pudding. 

Half a pound of flour, one-fourth of a pound of butter, five eggs, 
one and a half pounds of sugar, half a pound of raisins seeded and 
chopped, half a pound of currants, half a cup of cream or milk, half 
a lemon, juice and rind grated. Cream the butter and sugar, add 
the beaten yolks, then the milk; add flour alternately with the 
whites; lastly the fruit well dredged with flour. Turn into a but- 
tered mould and boil two hours and a half; serve hot with cabinet 
sauce. 

Cabinet Pudding Sauce. — Yolks of four eggs whipped very 
light, juice of one lemon and half the rind, one teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon, one cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter; rub the butter 
into the sugar, add the yolks, lemon juice, and spice. Beat ten 
minutes; set it in a pan of boiling water and beat it until it heats, 
(not boils.) 

Dandy Pudding. 

Four eggs, one quart of sweet milk, sweeten the milk with white 
sugar and put it on to boil; beat up the yolks with a tablespoon- 
ful of flour, and as soon as the milk comes to a boil stir in the yolks 
and flavoring. Let it boil up once and pour it into a dish. Beat the 
whites to a froth and add a teaspoonful of sugar to the whites of 
each egg, and lay in large spoonfuls on top of the pudding, then 
set it in the oven lon^ enoug^h to brown a little. 



PUDDINGS. 83 



Rice Pudding — N'o. 1. 

Boil a pint of rice in three pints of water, a little salt, when soft 
mix with three pints of cold milk, a cup and a half of sugar, a 
grated nutmeg, yolks of four eggs, two large spoonfuls of melted 
butter, half a pound of raisins. Bake an hour and ice with the 
whites of the eggs. 

Rice Pudding — No. 2. 

Six eggs to two quarts of new milk, sweeten to taste, then beat the 
eggs and put in, add two cups of boiled rice and a little nutmeg; 
bake one hour. For a small family, half the quantity, and bake 
half an hour. 

Rice Pudding Without Eggs. 

Two quarts of milk, one teacupful of rice, a lump of butter the 
size of a walnut, a saltspoonful of salt, four tablespoon fuls of sugar, 
a little nutmeg; stir often while baking the first hour. 

Rice Cup Pudding. 

Boil a teacupful of rice in a quart of milk until it is dry, add to 
it while it is hot a pint of rich milk and one ounce of butter; when 
sufficiently cool, add three eggs, well beaten, and sugar to taste; 
grate in a little nutmeg; butter your cups, pour in the mixture 
and bake in a moderate oven. Serve with cream. 

Lebanon Pudding. 

One cup and a half of sugar, not quite half a cup of butter, two 
eggs beaten light; add one cup of sweet milk, one pint of flour, 
sifted, one small teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful 
of soda in the flour. Bake in a slow oven, allowing an hour before 
dinner. Serve with wine sauce. 

Wine Sauce. — One tablespoonful of flour, mixed to a smooth 
paste Avith a little cold water; pour over it one pint of boiling water; 
a lump of butter, and sugar to taste. Boil pretty well, and when 
a little cool flavor with nutmes; and wine. 



84 PUDDINGS. 



The Age Hog Pudding. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of flour, five eggs. Beat half an hour. 
Bake in a long pan. 

Sauce. — Two quarts of sweet milk, four eggs, sugar and vanilla 
to suit the taste. Boil the milk in an inside vessel, until as thick 
as custard. Ice the cake and stick blanched almonds over the top, 
place it on a large platter and pour around it the custard, and serve 
cold. 

Tapioca Pudding — No. 1. 

One large teacupful of tapioca, soak it in one quart of water over 
night. Then cook until clear and add three oranges and two lem- 
ons; the pulp of the oranges and juice of the lemons must be free 
from seeds. Stir a cup of sugar in the juice of the lemons and or- 
anges, then add the tapioca. Let it cool and serve with sugar and 
cream. 

Tapioca^ Pudding — No. 2. 

A large cup of tapioca scalded or soaked over night, one cup of 
white sugar, one quart of milk, four eggs beaten separately. The 
yolks with the tapioca; beat the whites stiff and mix them with the 
tapioca. Let it come to a boil and add a tablespoonful of vanilla. 

Pudding Sauce. — Two cups of sugar, one of butter, three eggs, 
a tablespoonful of wine, mix all together and bring it to a boil and 
serve hot. 

Tapioca Pudding — No. 3. 

Soak eight large spoonfuls of tapioca in three pints of warm milk 
until it becomes soft, then stir it up with two teaspoonfuls of but- 
ter, four beaten eggs, four large spoonfuls of sugar; flavor and 
bake. 

Pudding Sauce. — One quart of water, butter the size of a large 
egg, two tablespoonf uls of flour, work the butter into the flour, then 
stir into the water when l>oiling; nutmeg and wine to taste; you can 
omit the wine if you wish, and add vanilla and a sprinkle of cay- 
enne pepper. 



PUDDINGS. 85 



Bread Pudding — iVo. 1. 

One pint of bread crumbs, one quart of new milk, one cup of 
sugar, yolks of four eggs, beaten, the grated rind of a lemon, a 
piece of butter the size of an egg. Bake until done, but not 
watery. Whip tiie whites of the eggs stiff and beat in one cup of 
sugar in which the juice of a lemon has been strained. Spread a 
layer of jelly. Pour the whites over this, replace in the oven and 
bake slightly. Serve with cream or wine sauce. 

Bread Puddbig — No. 2. 

One quart of new milk, one pint of bread crumbs soaked in the 
milk, four eggs, as much sugar as will sweeten it to your taste; 
use the yolks for the pudding. Beat the whites to a froth, then 
add a cup of sugar, grate the rind of a lemon into the milk, squeeze 
the juice into the whites, and when the pudding is baked spread 
the whites over it when hot, and set in the oven to brown. Serve 
with pudding sauce or cream. 

Pudding Sauce. — One quart of water, butter the size of a large 
&gg, two tablespoonfuls of flour; work the butter into the flour, 
then stir in the water when boiling, sweeten to taste, add nutmeg, 
vanilla and a sprinkle of cayenne pepper. 

Bread PaddiiKj — No. .3. 

One pint of bread crumbs, one quart of sweet milk, half a cup of 
sugar, the yolks of four eggs, one-half cup of raisins, a small lump 
of butter; mix all well and bake; then take the whites of the eggs 
and one cup of sugar, beat to a froth ; put on the top of the pud- 
ding when baked and let it brown a little. Serve with cream. 

Boll Pudding. 

Make a dough of one pint of flour, a little salt, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, a lump of lard the size of an egg; after rubbing 
through the flour, moisten like biscuit; roll out and spread with 
any kind of berries or fruit; roll up, tie and drop into boiling water; 



86 PUDDINGS. 



boil one hour or more. Put a dish in the bottom of the vessel it is 
boiled in to prevent its sticking; cover the vessel it is boiled in. 

Hasty Pudding. 

Place on the stove six cups of sweet milk. Beat two eggs and 
add one teacup of milk, six tablespoonfuls of flour, and a little salt,, 
the juice and grated rind of one lemon. Beat it well together, 
then stir it in the milk on the stove just as it begins to boil. When 
thick as mush put it into oiled cups to mould. To be eaten with 
sweetened cream. 

Huckleberry Pudding — No. 1. 

One pint of berries dredged with flour, one pint of flour, one tea- 
cupful of molasses, butter the size of an Qgg, half a teaspoonful of 
soda, one teaspoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, half 
a teaspoonful of allspice; boil in a well buttered tin three hours, 
or bake in a slow oven one hour and a half. Serve with wine or 
vanilla sauce. 

Huckleberry Pudding — No. 2. 

One cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, two cups of. sugar, 
four eggs, four cups of sifted flour, three spoonfuls of baking pow- 
der, one pint of huckleberries. Bake in a moderate oven. Serve 
with either cream and sugar or wine sauce. 

Pudding. 

Five eggs, one pint of milk, five large tablespoonfuls of flour, 
salt to taste. Serve with wine or lemon sauce. 

Suet Pudding — No. 1. 

One cup of suet fine, one cup of raisins, the yolks of two eggs 
beaten light, two tinfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der; mix the suet and baking powder in the flour, add the yolks of 
the eggs to the milk, add the milk slowly, until you have a pretty 
stiff batter, sprinkle flour over the raisins and add last. Boil in a 
bag or mould. 

Sauce. — Whites of two eggs, sugar and nutmeg in a bowl, mix 



PUDDINGS. 87 



well together, (the darker the sugar the better), one quart of 
water, and butter the size of an egg, in another bowl, and flour 
enough to thicken; then add the contents of the first bowl and 
let it come to a boil, stirring constantly. 

/Suei Pudding — iVo. 2. 

One cup of sweet milk, one cup of suet, one cup of flour, 
one cup of bread crumbs, one cup of molasses, one-fourth of a 
pound of seedless raisins, two eggs beaten together ; flour the 
fruit ; nutmeg to taste. Dip the bag in hot water, and after 
wringing it out, flour the inside. Put the mixture in and boil three 
or four hours. Serve with wine sauce. 

jSuet Pudding — No. 3. 
Three cups of flour, one cup of butter, one cup of raisins, half a 
cup of currants, one cup of milk, one cup of molasses, two eggs, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful of cloves, one 
teaspoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful oi salt; mix the flour 
last; boil two hours. Serve with sauce. 

Plum Pudding. 

One cup of suet, two cups of flour, three eggs, half a cup of 
sugar, a little salt; one teaspoonful of baking powder in the flour, 
one cup of seedless raisins, with milk enough to stir easily; add 
the raisins last, with a little flour sprinkled over it; boil two 
hours. Serve with sauce. 

Sauce. — One egg, one cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, one 
pint of boiling water, boil two minutes. Flavor to taste. 

Fruit Pudding. 

One quart of any of the small fruits, one pint of molasses, cloves 
and spice to taste, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a teacupful 
of warm water, flour to make it as thick as pound cake. Put it 
into a bag and boil three hours. 

Pird''s Nest Pudding. 
Pare and core apples, butter a deep dish, set the apples nicely 



88 PUDDINGS. 



into it, fill the centre with sugar, butter and cinnamon, put it into the 
oven and bake until nearly done; make a batter of one quart of 
milk, eight eggs, eight tablespoonfuls of flour. Pour it over the 
apples and finish baking. Eat with sugar and cream or wine sauce. 

Peach Padding. 
Put enough whole peeled peaches into a pudding dish, and pour 
over them two whole cups of water, cover the dish and set it into a 
hot oven. When the peaches are soft take the dish from the oven, 
drain off the juice and let it stand until it is cool, then add to it a 
pint of sweet milk, four eggs well beaten, a small cup of flour with 
a teaspoonful of baking powder mixed with it and stirred in so 
gradually and carefully as not to be lumpy; add a tablespoon- 
ful of melted butter, a little salt and a cup of sugar. Baat them 
all together for three or four minutes, then pour over the peaches; 
set the dish into the oven and bake until the top is a nice brown. 
Serve with sugar and cream. 

Steamed Pudding — iVo. 1. 

The whites of four eggs, well beaten, a little over one pint 
of sour or sweet milk, a little over a teacupful of flour; stir the 
flour into the milk and beat thoroughly; a teaspoonful of soda, a 
little salt. Have a pot of boiling water; put the pudding into a pan, 
set it in the steamer and close tight. Let it steam one hour with- 
out opening. 

Sauce for tiik Pudding. — Two and a lialf tablespoonfuls of 
flour mixed smooth, with a little cold water; beat until very light; 
a piece of butter the size of an ^^^^i half a cup of white sugar, 
nutmeg to taste, a pinch of salt; stir in boiling water; make it toler- 
able thick. 

Steamed Pudding — N'o. 2. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sweet milk, one cup of chopped 
raisins, half a cup of butter, four cups of flour, one teaspoonful 
of spice, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder; mix all the ingredi- 
ents thoroughly and steam thi ee hours in a buttered mould. Serve 
with lemon sauce. 



PUDDINGS. 89 



Delmonico Pudding. 

One quart of milk, five eggs, two large tablespoonfuls of corn- 
starch, mix the cornstarch with a little cold milk and stir it into the 
boiling milk, and boil a few minutes; when done remove from the 
stove and add two teaspoonfuls of vanilla, three-fourths of a cup 
of sugar, and the yolks of the eggs, beaten very light. Beat the 
whites stiff with half a cup of sugar, spread over the top; set into 
the oven until it is a delicate brown. Serve with cream. 

J^elvet Pudding. 

Three pints of milk, one grated lemon, five eggs, beaten sepa- 
rately, one cup of sugar, four tablespoonfuls of cornstarch dissolved 
in a little cold milk and added to the yolks and sugar; set the 
milk on the stove, and when it comes to a boil, stir the cornstarch 
into the milk and the grated lemon; stir until it thickens; remove 
from the stove, put into your pudding dish; beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, add half a cup of sugar, sprexd over the pud- 
ding and set into the oven to brown. Serve with sauce or cream. 

Velvet Pupding Sauce. — Yolks of two eggs, one small cup of 
sugar, one tablespoonful of butter; beat well and add one cup of 
boiling milk; set on the back of the stove to boil; flavor with 

orange. 

Aj^jyle Flummery. 

Take enough good cooking apples to make a quart of sauce, 
rub through a sieve, sweeten and add a half teaspoonful of vanilla; 
beat the whites of four eggs stiff and stir lightly through. Serve 
cold with cream. 

Delicate Puddhig. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, three and a half cups of 
flour, one cup of sweet milk, the whites of eight eggs, two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder in the flour. Cream the butter and sugar, 
add the milk, then the flour, lastly the well beaten whites. Serve 
with sauce. 

Pu^' Pudding. 

One pint of new milk, three eggs, seven tablespoonfvds of flour. 



90 PUDDINGS. 



Bake in a square pan; set it in the oven a few minutes before go- 
ing to the table, so that it will be done just as you are ready to 
serve it. Serve with sugar and cream; good milk will answer. 

Orange Si\oio Balls. 

Wash well half a pound of Carolina rice, put it into plenty of 
water and boil until tender, drain and let it cool. Pare four or five 
small oranges, and clear from them entirely the thick white inner 
skin, spread the rice in as many equal portions as there are oranges, 
upon some pudding or dumpling cloths; tie the fruit separately in 
these, and boil the snow balls for an hour. Dip each dumpling into 
cold water, turn them carefully on a dish and strew jolenty of sifted 
sugar on them. Serve with cream. 

Cottage Pudding — No. 1. 

One cup of milk, one tinful of flour, little more than half a cup 
of sugar, two eggs beaten separately, three teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder in the flour. It can be baked with one Q^^- Serve with 
sauce. 

Pudding Sauce. — One pint and a half of water, butter the size 
of an egg, two tablespoonfuls of flour; work the butter into the 
flour, then stir in the water gradually when boiling, sweeten to 
taste, add nutmeg, vanilla, a slight sprinkle of cayenne pepper, and 
a little salt. 

Cottage Pudding — No. 2. 

One egg, one cup of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, one pint of 
flour, a little salt, two teaspoonfuls of l>aking powder. Serve with 
sauce or cream and sugar. 

/Sweet Potato Pudding. 

Eight potatoes boiled and well mashed, half a pound of butter, 
four eggs, sugar to taste, a little nutmeg, and one cup of milk. 

Farina Pudding. 

Two ounces of butter, melt and mix with three tablespoonfuls of 
fi^rina, add one and a half pints of boiling milk; cook to a thick 



PUDDINGS. 91 



mush, cool it. Then take the yolks of four eggs, five tablespoon- 
fuls of fine sugar, part of the rind and some of the juice of a lemon, 
add the whites of the egg beaten very light, mix well, bake in a 
buttered dish one hour in a quick oven. 

Savory Pudding. 

Soften with one pint of warm milk one-fourth of a pound of bread, 
l^eat it fine, add two eggs, one tablespoonful of sugar, two ounces 
of currants, two ounces of raisins, two ounces of apples chopped 
fine, two tablespoonfuls of chopped suet on the top, or if you have 
no suet use bits of butter. Bake three-fourths of an hour, and eat 
warm Avith sauce. 

French Puff Pudding. 

Four eggs, four tablespoonfuls of flour, one pint of milk; beat 
the eggs thoroughly; bake twenty minutes or half an hour, accord- 
ing to the heat of your oven. A nice variation of this pudding is 
to put a layer of chopped or sliced apples in the bottom of the pud- 
ding dish and pour the same batter over them. 

Oxford Pudding. 

Half a pint of bread crumbs, half a pint of cream, one pint of 
warm milk; add to the crumbs six eggs, a cup of chopped raisins 
seeded, spice to taste. Bake or steam. 

Brown Betty. 

Pare and cut fine some ripe apples, put a layer of apples, butter, 
sugar and cinnamon in a deep dish, then a layer of bread crumbs, 
and so on until the dish is full. Bake half an hour. Can be eaten 
warm or cold, with sugar and cream. 

Buttermilk Pudding. 

Half a tiiiful of bread crumbs, one tinful of buttermilk, one cup 
of sugar, one small half cup of butter, one nutmeg, two eggs, one 
teaspoonf ul of soda. Bake one hour. Beat the whites of two eggs 



92 PUDDINGS. 



to a stifE froth and spread on top of the pudding after it is baked. 
Keturn to the oven and let it brown a little. 

Dressing for Ov^er It. — One pint of boiling water, a lump of 
butter the size of an egg, sugar to taste, thicken with water and 
cornstarch, flavor with vanilla; to one egg mix two tablespoon fuls 
of cornstarch, one tinful of boiling water, one tablespoonful of 
butter, two tablespoonfuls of sugar; flavor. 

Lemon (Jreani Pudding. 

A layer of apples in the pudding dish, one cup of sugar, two 
eggs, two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, one lemon, one pint of 
milk, butter the size of a hickory nut. Cut the apples fuie and 
put into the bottom of the pudding dish. Heat the milk to boiling 
and stir in the cornstarch mixed smooth with a little cold milk or 
water. Boil about five minutes, stirring constantly. While hot 
mix in the butter and set away to cool. Beat the eggs light, add 
the sugar; mix thoroughly before putting in the lemon iuice 
and grated rind. Beat this to a stiff cream and add gradually to 
the cornstarch and milk when it is cold. Stir all smooth, and pour 
it over the apples. Bake half an hour, if the oven is hot. Be careful 
not to let it remain in the oven too long. 

Gough Pudding. 
One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup of fruit, one 
cup of sweet milk, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one nut- 
meg, four cups of flour. Boil three hours, and serve with sauce. 

St) xii r be ) 'ry P 1 1 ddh ig . 
Three-fourths of a cup of butter, four eggs, two cups of sugar, 
one cup of sweet milk, four small cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, one pint of berries as dry as possible. Bake in a 
cake dish. 

Plum Pudding. 

Take slices of light bread, spread thin with butter, and lay in a 
pudding dish layers of bread and raisins until within an inch of the 
top. Boil the raisins, and put in the juice they were boiled in. 



PUDDINGS. 



To four eggs well beaten add one quart of milk, and salt and spice 
to taste. Pour over the bread and bake half an hour. 

Amber Pudding. 

One dozen large tart apples, one cupful of sugar, the juice and 
rind of two lemons, six eggs, four tablespoonfuls of butter, enough 
puff paste to line a three-pint pudding dish. Pare and quarter the 
apples. Pare the thin rind from the lemon, being careful not to 
cut into the white part. Put the butter, apples, lemon rind 
and juice into a stewpan with half a cupful of water, cover 
tightly; let it simmer about three-quarters of an hour; rub through 
a sieve, add the sugar and set away to cool. Line the dish with 
thin paste; beat the yolks of the eggs and stir them into the cool 
mixture. Turn this into the lined dish; bake slowly for half an 
hour. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and gradually beat into 
them three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar; cover the pudding 
with this; return to the oven and cook twelve minutes with the 
door open. Serve either hot or cold. 

Noodle Pudding. 

Six eggs, mix with the eggs as much flour as possible, roll the 
dough very thin, cut half an inch v?ide, boil half an hour in salt 
water; lay a cloth in the colander and lift the noodles out into it; 
let drain two hours, then lay a layer of noodles in the pudding 
dish, a layer of stewed raisins and currants mixed ; to every layer 
of fruit slice a little citron, finish with noodles, pour over three ta- 
blespoonfuls of hot water, set in the oven and bake three hours, 
cover with a pan, take out of the oven the last half hour; it should 
be a nice brown on the top when done. Turn out on a dish when 
done; serve with sauce or cream. The noodles can be made and 
boiled the day before if you prefer. 

S^iet Batter Pudding. 
One cup of suet chopped fine, scatter through a long dripping- 
pan, heat untill it becomes clear, take one quart of milk, two eggs, a 
little salt, flour enough to make as thick as flannel cake batter, add 



94 PUDDINGS. 



two teaspoonfuls of baking powder to the flour, drop the batter 
over the suet, without stirring; bake half an hour, when done 
cut through the centre, turn the under sides together, lay on a 
plate. Serve warm with sauce. 

/Steamed 31 eat Pudding. 

Take the remnants of a stewed chicken, pick the meat from the 
bones and cut into small pieces, and stir into a batter made of one 
pint of flour, into which has been sifted two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, a teaspoonful of salt; rub into the flour a tablespoonful of 
butter, and mix with one cupful of sweet milk. Steam nearly two 
hours, taking care not to lift the cover once until done. Thicken the 
gravy left from the stew, and season with salt and pepper. 

(JJiocolate Pudding. 

Boil one quart of milk, melt and mix one and a half ounces of 
Baker's chocolate with a little cold milk and stir it into the boiled 
milk. When nearly cold add the beaten yolks of six eggs, sweeten 
to taste, flavor with vanilla, and bake until it is of the consistency 
of custard. Beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, add six table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar; pile it lightly on the pudding, then 
replace in the oven to brown. To be eaten cold. 




SAUCES. 



'Whipped Cream Sauce. 

One pint of rich cream sweetened and flavored to taste, wliip 
it to a stiff froth, and add the beaten whites of two eggs. Serve 
on puddings or fruit. 

Pine-apple Sauce. 

Grate one pine-apple, take half its weight in sugar, one cup of 
water, let it simmer until tender, add the sugar gradually, boil 
g-ently for five minutes and serve. 

Hard Pine-apple Sauce. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of butter, and five level tablespoonf uls of 
sugar, the white of an egg, flavor with pine-apple; form a pyramid 
and with a teaspoon shape it like a pine-apple. Some use only the 
sugar and butter. 

Cold Cream Sauce. 

Beat together four tablespoonfuls of butter and one cup of sugar, 
add a cup of rich cream, stir to a cream, flavor with vanilla and 
place it where it will get very cold before serving. 

Lemon Sauce — No. 1. 

Two cups of sugar, one-third of a cup of butter, two eggs, one 
tablespoonful of cornstarch mixed smooth in a little cold water, juice 
of one lemon, and half the grated rind, two cups of boiling water, 
cream the butter and sugar well and add the eggs. Let the corn- 
starch boil a few minutes in the boiling; water until it is smooth and 



96 SAUCE. 

thick. Put all into a bowl, beat it a little, return it to the stove and 
let it heat almost to the boiling point. Keep it hot until ready to 
serve. 

Lemon Sauce — No. 2. 

Two cups of sugar, two eggs, juice and rind of one lemon; beat 
all together, and just before serving add a pint of boiling water, 
set it on the stove, when it comes to the boiling point serve. 

Strcncherry Sauce. 

Half a teacupful of butter, one heaping cup of sugar, and one 
pint of strawberries mashed a little so as to be juicy. Beat the 
butter and sugar to^a cream, stir in the berries and add the white 
of an Qgg beaten stilf. 

Lemon Pudding Sauce. 

One cup of butter, two and a half cups of sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful of cornstarch mixed smooth in a little cold water, the juice of 
one lemon and half of the rind grated, two cups of boiling Avater. 
Cream the butter and sugar well; let the cornstarch boil awhile in 
the boiling water until it is smooth and thick. Put all in a bowl, 
beat it a little, return it to the stove, and let it heat almost to the 
boil; keep hot until ready to serve. To boil after adding the 
lemon will make it bitter. 

Wine Sauce — iVo. 1. 

One quart of water, butter the size of a large e^g, two table- 
spoonfuls of flour; work the butter into the flour, then stir in the 
water when boiling, sweeten to taste, wine to your taste, flavor with 
peach kernel or nutmeg. 

Wine Sauce — No. 2. 

One tablespoonful of flour made into a smooth paste with 
cold water, pour over one pint of boiling water a lump of 
butter half the size of an e^g; sugar to taste. Boil pretty well, 
and when a little cool flavor with nutmeg and wine. 



SAUCE. 97 

Pudding Sauce. 

One quart of water, butter the size of an Qgg^ two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, work the butter into the flour, then stir, and pour the 
boiling water in gradually; sweeten to taste, and add half a nut- 
meg, grated, three teaspoonfuls of vanilla, a slight sprinkle of 
cayenne pepper, a little salt. 

Foam Sauce. 

One cup of sugar, quarter of a cujd of butter, yolk of an egg-, 
beat together. Boil one cup of milk, thicken with a tablespoonful 
of flour; pour on while hot, and add the juice of two oranges and 
grated rind of one, and lastly the white of the egg beaten to a stiff 
froth. 

Orange Sauce. 

Half a cup of butter, two and a half cups of sugar, one small 
tablespoonful of flour mixed smooth in a little cold water, the juice 
of three large oranges, the grated rind of one, the juice of one 
lemon, one pint of milk; cream the butter and sugar, add the 
beaten yolk of one egg; set the milk on the stove, and when it 
comes to a boil stir in the flour, add the mixture and oranges and 
juice of the lemon. 

Golden Sauce. 

Take the yolks of three eggs, stir in a half cup of sugar, pour 
into a pint of boiling milk, and flavor to suit the taste. Put in a 
cool place. Just before serving mix the well beaten whites lightly 
with the same. 




CUSTARDS. 



Ahnond Custard. 

One pint of new milk, sweeten to taste, two tablespoonfuls of 
cornstarcli mixed smooth with a little milk, one quarter of a pound 
of almonds blanched and pounded and moistened with two tea- 
spoonfuls of rose water, the yolks of four eggs; set the milk on to 
boil, when it comes to the boiling point stir in the cornstarch, then 
add the beaten yolks; when it commences to thicken stir in the 
almonds and boil until it thickens, then remove it quickly and put 
into a dish. Beat the whites with a little sugar, spread over the top 
and brown a delicate brown in a quick oven. 

Orange ( 'ustard. 

Four oranges, grated rind of one, one pint of new milk, one ta- 
blespoonful of cornstarch mixed smooth added to the milk, six 
eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sugar; beat the yolks and oranges to- 
gether and stir into the milk, add a little butter and the beaten 
\whites just before setting them in the oven. 

(Jreanx Custard. 

"One quart of cream, three tablespoonfuls of white sugar, whites 
'of five eggs, stir the sugar into the cream, then add the whites of 
the eggs w^ithout beating them, stir all well, and flavor with vanilla. 
Bake in cups set in a pan half filled with water; put it in the oven 
and bake until it thickens. Lay whipped cream over the top. 

Boiled Custard. 

The yolks of three or four eggs beaten light, cne quart of sweet 



CUSTARDS. 99 



milk, add two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch mixed smooth with a 
little milk, a pinch of salt, boil until thick, then spread over the 
beaten whites with a little powdered sugar added to them; set it 
in the oven to brown a delicate color. See that the oven is in or- 
der before setting it in. 

Cocoanut Custard — JSFo. 1. 

Grate one cocoanut, add one-fourth of a pound of butter, the 
-whites of six eggs, one soda cracker, a little rose water, and sugar 
■enough to sweeten. 

Cocoanut Custard — No. 2. 

Grate the cocoanut, sugar enough to sweeten, and add the whites 
of five eggs. 

Lemon Custard — No. 1. 

Two lemons, one cup of butter, five crackers grated, four or five 
eggs, sugar enough to sweeten, mix the butter and crackers, add 
the lemons grated, and then the sugar, the beaten yolks, and lastly 
the whites beaten stiff. 

Lemon Custard — iVo. 2. 

Two lemons, half a cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of 
sweet milk, four eggs, one tablespoonful of cornstarch mixed in a 
cup of milk; add the whites beaten to a froth. 

L^cmon Custard — No. 3. 

One lemon, a pint of new milk, six eggs, three tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, beat the yolks and lemon together, and stir it into the milk, • 
then beat the whites and stir them in just before putting them in- 
to the oven, add a little butter. 

Lem,mi Cxistard — No. 4. 

Four eggs, butter the size of a walnut, one spoonful of flour, one 
pint of milk, one lemon, sweeten to taste. 

Coffee Cxistard. 

Two cups of rich cream, two cups of strong coffee, six eggs, su- 



100 CUSTARDS. 



gar to taste. Bake in cups set in a pan of warm water in the oven. 
Chocolate Custard. 

Boil one quart of milk; scrape one ounce of nice chocolate, and 
mix with one heaping cup of sugar ; wet this with two spoonfuls 
of boiling milk; work this into a smooth paste with the back of 
vour spoon and stir into the milk; then stir in six well beaten eggs; 
stir three minutes, and set in cold water, stirring occasionally until 
cold; then add two teaspoonfuls of vanilla. Serve in glasses. 
Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and place on the top. 

Baked Custard. 

One quart of milk, four eggs beaten light, five tablespoonfuls of 
sugar mixed with the yolks, nutmeg and vanilla to taste. 
Golden, Angel Custard. 

Into one pint of boiling water stir two tablespoonfuls of corn- 
starch, mixed smooth with cold water; let it boil a minute, then 
add two tablespoonfuls of sugar; just as you remove it from the 
stove add the well beaten whites of the four eggs; continue to 

beat until cold. 

Custard. 

One cup of sweet cream, half a cup of sugar, and the beaten 
yolks of four eggs; let it come to a boil, remove from the fire, and 
add vanilla to taste. Pour in a glass dish and cover with the white. 

A2)ple Custard. 

Pare half a dozen of tart apples; take out the cores and fill with 

sugar ; pour half a pint of water over them, and when they begin 

to soften pour over them a custard made of three pints of milk, 

seven eggs, and four tablespoonfuls of sugar; spread with nutmeg 

and bake half an hour. 

Sno'io Custard. 

Half a box of Cox's gelatine, three eggs, one pint of milk, two 
cups of sugar, juice of one lemon, soak the gelatine one hour in a 
teacupful of cold water, then add one pint of boiling water, stir un- 



CUSTARDS. 101 

til the gelatine is thoroughly dissolved, then add two-thirds of the 
sugar, and the lemon juice. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth, when the gelatine is quite cold whip in the whites, a spoon- 
ful at a time for at least an hour. Whip evenly, and when all is 
stiff pour it into a mould, wet with cold water; set it in a cold place, 
in four or five hours turn it into a glass dish. Make a custard with 
the rest of the eggs and the remainder of the sugar, flavor with va- 
nilla. When the meringue is turned out of the mould pour the 
custard around the base. 

J'apioca (Jnstard. 

Soak a teacupful of tapioca over night in milk, stir into it the 
yolks of three eggs well beaten, and one cup of sugar. Let a quart 
of milk come to the boiling point, stir the tapioca in, and cook 
whole, stir until it thickens. Flavor to taste, use the whites of the 
eggs for frosting; put it over the top and brown a little. 

Peach Tajyioca Custard. 

Half a cup of tapioca soaked in water over night, then boil until 
clear, remove it from the fire and pour over half a can of peaches, 
then beat twelve eggs together until very light, sweeten, put it in- 
to the oven and let it brown. 

Banana Custard. 

One quart of milk, four eggs beaten light, five tablespoonfuls of 
sugar mixed with the yolks, four bananas mashed smooth before 
putting in. 




BLANC MANGE. 



3foss Blanc Man<je. 

Take one cupful of Iceland moss, wash it thoroughly, put a little 
water to it, and let stand for some time. If kept warm it will dis- 
solve sooner. Put it over a moderate fire and add milk as it be- 
comes thick, stirring constantly. When done it should be of the 
consistency of thin boiled custard; strain it into the mould and set 
away to cool. 

Almond Blanc 3fange. 

One quart of milk, one ounce of gelatine, three ounces of al- 
monds, blanched and pounded in a mortar, with one tablespoonful 
of rose water added to prevent oiling, three-fourths of a cup of 
sugar; heat the milk to boiling, having previously soaked the gel- 
atine in a cup of the milk for one hour; turn into this, -when the 
milk is scalding hot, add the pounded almonds, and stir all together 
for ten minutes before putting in the sugar. When the gelatine 
has dissolved remove the blanc mange from the vessel of boiling 
water m which you have cooked it, and strain through a thin mus 
lin bag, pressing it well to get out the flavor of the almonds; there 
should be two or three bitter almonds among them. Wet your 
mould with cold water, put in the blanc mange and set it in a cold 
place until firm. You may make blanc mange without the almonds 
and flavor with vanilla. 

Neapolitan Blanc Mange. 

Make according to the foregoing recipe, and strain into four 
different portions, allowing a cupful of the mixture for each. 



BLANC MANGE. 103 



Have ready grated one tablesjDoonEul of chocolate, wet with a little 
boiling water, and mixed smooth for the brown coloring; the yolks 
of two eggs beaten light for the 3-ellow; one large tablespoon- 
f ul of currant or cranberry juice for the pink ; mix well the chocolate in 
one portion, the pink juice in another, and the eggs into 
the third, returning this and that flavored with chocolate to 
the fire and stirring until very hot, but not boiling. Leave the 
fourth uncolored. When quite cold, and a little stiff, pour care- 
fully into a wet mould, first the white, then the pink, next the yel- 
low, and last the chocolate. Set in a cool place; loosen when firm 
l)y dipping the mould into warm water. 

Cornstarch JJlanc JIa/u/e. 

One quart of milk, one cup of sugar, four tablespoonf uls of corn- 
starch mixed smooth in a little cold milk, three eggs well beaten, 
yolks and whites separately, one saltspoonful of salt, vanilla, lemon 
or other essence. Heat the milk to boiling, stir in the cornstarch 
and salt; boil together five minutes in a farina kettle, then add the 
yolks beaten light with the sugar, boil two minutes longer, stirring 
all the time; remove the mixture from the stove, beat the whipped 
whites in while it is boiling hot. Wet yout mould with cold water, 
pour in and set it in a cool place. 

/Strairbervf/ Jilanc Mange. 

Stew nice ripe strawberries, strain off the juice and sweeten to 
taste; place them over the fire, and when they boil stii* in cornstarch 
mixed smooth in a little cold water, allowing two tablespoonfuls of 
cornstarch for each pint of juice; stir constantly until cooked, pour 
it into moulds, wet in cold water, serve with cream and sugar and 
fresh strawberries over the top. Raspberry blanc mange is made 
the same way. 

Snov) Balls. 

Boil one pint of rice until soft in two quarts of milk or water, with a 
teaspoonful of salt, put it in small cups and when perfectly cold 
place it in a dish. Make a boiled custard of the yolks of three eggs, 



104 BLANC MANGE. 



one pint of sweet milk, and one teaspoonful of cornstarch; flavor 
with lemon; when cold pour over the rice balls half an hour before 
serving. 

Tapioca Blanc Mange. 

Half a pound of tapioca, one pint of rich milk, three cups of su- 
gar, two teaspoonfuls of bitter almond, vanilla, a little salt. Heat 
the milk, stir in the tapioca; when it is dissolved add the sugar and 
boil slowly fifteen minutes, stirring all the while, take it from the 
Are and beat it until nearly cold; flavor and pour it into a mould 
dipped into cold water, turn out, pour cold sweetened cream over it. 

Float. 

The yolks of six Bggi., two tinfuls of sweet milk, sweeten and 
flavor to the taste; put on to boil, stirring constantly until it begins to 
thicken; pour into a dish as soon as taken off the fire, as it will 
curdle if left standing. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
with two tablespoonfuls of fine white sugar, and put on the cus- 
tard at once. Serve cold. 

Floating Island — iVo. 1. 

For one common sized float have a sponge cake that will weigh 
one or two pounds, cut it downwards, almost to the bottom, but do 
not take it apart; stand up the cake in the centre of a deep dish; 
have ready a pint of cream, make it very sweet and color it with 
a teacupful of the juice of pounded spinach, boil five minutes by it- 
self, strain and make very sweet. For pink use currant jelly, 
cranberry or strawberry juice, or if you wish you can whip to a 
froth a pint and a half of sweetened cream and flavor with vanilla; 
pour around the cake. 

Floating Island — iVo. 2. 

Beat the yolks of four eggs until very light, sweeten and flavor 
to taste. Stir into a quart of boiling milk; cool until it thickens; 
when cool, pour into a low glass dish; whip the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth, allowing one teaspoonful of sugar to the white of 



BLANC MANGE. 105 



each egg. Set over a dish of boiling water to cook. Take a table- 
spoon and drop the whites on the top of the cream, far enough 
apart to keep the edges from touching. Dropping specks of bright 
jelly on each island will produce a pleasing effect. 

Angel Food. 
Dissolve half a box of gelatine in a quart of milk, beat together 
the yolks of three eggs, one cupful of sugar, juice of one lemon; 
stir into the gelatine and milk and let it just come to a boil; whip 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth; when nearly cold stir them 
throusfh the custard. 




U^P:? H HP'r^ae' eVfe/r^F H H ■|^;h; r^ r^r^r^r^ HTJ^j^Tc/.P.P H H r^t^P r* r' P/^^"■^P^^j 



T^;^__^,^^.^^^^^^^^^__,__^^^^^^,^^,^^__^^,^^^ 



GELATINE. 



One box of Cox's gelatine; soak in a cup of cold water twenty- 
minutes, then add a pint of boiling water; add one cup of sugar, 
three large Florida oranges; after removing the rind, cut in small 
pieces; lay in the dish you intend serving in; strain and pour 
the gelatine over it. 

Lemon or Fruit Gelatine. 

For lemon jell}^, take two ounces of gelatine, one and a half 
pounds of sugar, juice of four or five lemons, according to size; 
soak about an hour in a pint of cold water, then add three pints of 
boiling water, the juice and sugar; stir well; strain and pour into 
moulds and set aside to cool. In summer use more gelatine or less 
water. If fruit flavoring is preferred, take three bananas, 
peel and quarter them, then cut up into very small pieces; also 
peel and cut up very fine three oranges. When the jelly is partly 
cool, that is stiff enough to hold the fruit in place, put an equal 
quantity of fruit in each mould and with a silver spoon gently 
j)ress the fruit through the jelly, (that is, so it will not stay either at 
the top or bottom.) Then let it harden. If you have strawberries, 
they arenicfi, or a little juice of pine apple improves the flavor. 

SiviVs JVest Gelatine. 

One quart of gelatine; go according to the gelatine recipe, 
omitting the rind and wine. Three cups of blanc mange, nine 
empty egg shells, fresh rind of two oranges, half a cup of sugar; 



GELATINE. 107 



cut the rind from the oranges into long, narrow strips and stew 
these gently in enough water to cover them , until they are tender, add 
to them half a cup of sugar, and simmer fifteen minutes longer in 
the syrup ; lay them out on a dish to cool, taking care not to break 
them ; if you have preserved orange peel in the house, it will do. 
The blanc mange should be made the day before you want it and 
the egg shells filled; the yolks and whites should be poured out of 
a hole not larger than a half dime in the small end; wash well 
with pure water shaken around them, and fill with blanc mange 
and set in a pan of flour or sugar — the open end up, that they may 
not be overturned. Next mornino- fill a fflass dish two-thirds full 
of gelatine, which should be very clear, reserving a large cupful; 
break the shells from the blanc mange and lay the artificial eggs 
upon the gelatine, if it is firm enough to bear them; pile them 
neatly but not too high in the middle, bearing in mind that that 
which is the top will be the bottom when it is turned out. Lay 
the orange peel which represents straw over this and around them, 
warm the reserved gelatine so that it will flow readily, but not hot, 
pour over the straw and eggs, and set away in a cool place to 
form; when firm turn out. 

Orange Gelatine. 
Take one package of gelatine, let it soak in a pint of cold water 
twenty minutes, or until it is dissolved, boil together two pints of 
water and half a pound of sugar, pour over the gelatine boiling 
hot, add the juice of eight oranges, and rind of one, and the juice 
of one large lemon. When cool and just beginning to form, add the 
beaten whites of four eggs, and beat the whole together until it is 
thoroughly mixed. Pour it into moulds and set it in a cool place. 
Cranberry Gelatine. 

Two ounces of gelatine, one pound of double refined sugar, 
three pints of cranberry juice well strained. Dissolve the gelatine 
in a pint of cold water on the back of the stove, let it stand twenty 
minutes; then add the boiling juice, strain and pour it into moulds 
to cool. 



108 GELATINE. 



Sti'awherry Gelatine. 

Two pints of strawberry juice, two lemons, one pound of sugar. 
Wash with care a quantity of freshly gathered strawberries, and 
squeeze the juice through a cloth. To your quart of juice add the 
sugar and juice of the lemons, place it in a preserving kettle over 
a gentle fire. Skim it well; when clear add an ounce of isinglass 
dissolved in a pint of water. Pour it into moulds when nearly 
cold. 

Calfs Feet Gelatine. 

Boil two calf's feet, well cleaned, in one gallon of water vxntil it 
is reduced to one quart, then pour it into a pan. When cold, skim 
off all the fat and take up the jelly into a saucepan and pour over 
it a pint of boiling water, three-fourths of a pound of white sugar, 
and the juice of three lemons; add to these the whites of six eggs 
well beaten together; stir all together thoroughly, place it on the 
fire and let it boil a few minutes, pour it into a large flannel bag, 
and repeat this until it runs clear; then have ready a large glass 
dish and drop into it some lemon peel cut into thin strips half an inch 
long, and a pint and a half of pineapple cut into small pieces. Let 
the jelly run into the dish, the lemon will give it a nice color and 
pleasant flavor. Serve when cold. Make all gelatines the day be- 
fore you wish to use them. 

Gelatine. 

One box of gelatine, pour a pint of cold water on it, and let it 
stand twenty minutes, then add the juice of three lemons, and the 
grated rind of one lemon, not quite a pound of sugar, one pint of 
strawberry juice, and two pints and a half of boiling water. Let 
it stand and strain. If to be used for dinner, it must be made the 
day before. 

Lemon Gelatine. 

One box of Cox's gelatine, pour on it a pint of cold water, and 
let it stand twenty minutes, two pints of boiling water, juice of five 
lemons, rind of one, one-fourth of a pound of sugar. Pour the 



GELATINE. 109 



boiling water over the gelatine, add the lemons and sugar, mix this 
well, strain it, pour it into moulds to cool. Wet the moulds with 
cold water before pouring in. 

Jlihbon Gelatine. 

Take one-third of strawberry gelatine, one third lemon gelatine, 
and one-third orange gelatine ; color the orange gelatine with the 
yolks of three eggs, grate the oranges, using the rind of one; strain. 
Put it into deep dishes of one size to cool, then lay in a glass dish, 
and stick blanched almonds over the top. Serve with cream. 

^i Pretty Dessert. 

Remove carefully the inside of the orange from its rind with a 
small teaspoon. You can cut the rind into various shapes; in halves, 
or scollop the edges, or cut half way down in quarter sections, and 
roll the upper quarters under, or cut it in the shape of a basket, 
leaving a band of rind for the handle, lay it in very cold water while 
you prepare the filling. Fill with cold gelatine flavored with the 
scooped-out orange ; or, whipped cream, or vanilla snow. A few 
lemon or japonica leaves, to line the edges of the dish and inter- 
spersed between them, will give a pleasing effect. 

Pine- Ai)2^le Gelatine. 

One package of gelatine, one pound of sugar, one pine-apple 
peeled and grated, a little nutmeg, the juice of one lemon, and rind 
grated, one pint and a half of boiling water, whites of four eggs; 
soak the gelatine twenty minutes in a cup of cold water. Put it 
into a bowl with the sugar, nutmeg, lemon juice, rind, and grated 
pine-apple. Let it stand covered three hours; then pour upon it 
the boiling water, and stir until the gelatine is dissolved ; strain the 
mixture through a flannel bag, squeezing hard to get the flavor of 
the fruit; set it on ice until cold, but not until it is hard. When 
it is jellied around the edges, begin to whip the whites of the eggs 
stiff". Beat a spoonful at a time into the gelatine, and beat it a 
minute after adding each spoonful to mix it evenly. Beat half an 



110 GELATINE. 



hour. Wet a mould with cold water, put in the sponge and set it 
on ice until you are ready to turn it out. 

Pi<fs Feet Jelly. 

Boil two pig's feet in one gallon of water until reduced to one 
quart, if tender pour into a large bowl. When cold skim off all 
the fat and take up the jelly, be careful to cut off the sediment 
which settles at the bottom. Put the jelly into a sauce-pan and 
pour over it the Juice of three lemons and half a pound of white 
sugar; place it on the fire a few minutes, then pour into glasses or 

moulds. 

Souse. 

Boil your pig's feet until tender, remove the skins, chop them up 
fine, add to them the water you boiled them in; after it has been 
cooled and the fat skimmed off and the sediment which settles to 
the bottom cut off, stir together thoroughly, place it on the fire, let 
it boil a few minutes; season to taste with pepper, salt and vine- 
gar and pour into moulds. 




CREAM. 



Almond Cream. 

One-half pound of blanched almonds, one quart of cream; boil 
one pint of the cream and sweeten to the taste; roll the almonds 
fine, add to them a few drops of rose water and add to the cream 
before it is put on to boil; when the cream comes to a boil add 
half a box of gelatine, stirring until the gelatine is dissolved, then 
add the well beaten whites of two eggs. Beat the reserved pint 
of cream stiff; when the cream is cold, add to it and beat thor- 
oughly. Stick blanched almonds over the top, or froth thick cream 
and put on the top. 

Creum a la Vinalle. 

One ounce of gelatine, five ounces of sugar, three pints of new 
milk, one teaspoonful of extract of vanilla; soften the gelatine in a 
little cold milk, then boil it in the thiee pints of milk until it is dis- 
solved. Beat the yolks of six eggs light and add the sugar; pour 
the milk boiling hot over the yolks, return to the kettle, and stir 
all rapidly together for about three minutes; stir the cream until 
nearly cold. Dip the moulds into cold water, let them stand a few 
moments, then take them out and fill the moulds; set them aside 
until stiff enough to turn out. 

Tapioca Cream. 

Soak two tablespoonfuls of tapioca in water over night, then boil 

clear in one quart of milk, adding one cup of sugar, the yolks of 

.three eggs beaten light; allow it to boil gently for a few moments, 

remove from the fire, then add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a 



112 ' CREAM. 

stiff froth. Flavor with vanilla or rind and juice of a lemon; put 
into moulds. To be eaten cold. 

Ap2)le Cream. 

Stew half a dozen tender apples, wash them to a pulp, whisk the 
whites of six eggs until they are very light, and as soon as the 
apples are cold add them to the eggs, with four ounces of pulver- 
ized loaf sugar. Whisk the whole until it will stand up when 
placed on a dish. Serve with sweetened cream flavored with lemon 

or vanilla. 

Italian Cream. 

One pint of rich sweet cream, one pint of sweet milk, half a 
box of gelatine, boil the milk, then add the gelatine stirring until 
the gelatine is dissolved ; then add the well beaten whites of two 
or three eggs. Beat the cream stiff" after the milk is cold, add the 
cream and beat thoroughly. Flavor and sweeten to the taste. 

Ibex. 

One quart of cream, six ounces of sugar, the yolks of six eggs, 
half a box of gelatine dissolved in a cup of water and boiled down 
half. Beat the cream to a froth, add the yolks of the eggs and 
sugar well beaten, stir in the gelatine, boil and add flavoring. 

Pine- Apple Cream. 

One and a half pints of milk, one and a half ounces of gelatine; 
boil the milk, then add the gelatine, stirring until the gelatine is 
dissolved; add the juice of one lemon, one small teacupful of 
sugar, the well beaten whites of two eggs. When the milk is cold 
add twelve teaspoonfuls of grated pine-apple, and the same propor- 
tion of well beaten cream; l^eat all well together, froth thick cream 
and put on top. 

t^panish Cream. 

Half a box of gelatine, one quart of milk, yolks of three eggs, 
one small cup of sugar, soak the gelatine one hour in the milk, 
put on the fire and stir well as it warms. Beat the yolks very light 



CREAM. 113 

with the sugar, add to the scalding milk and heat to boiling point, 
stirring all the time; strain through thin muslin, and when almost 
cold put in a mold wet in cold water. Flavor with vanilla or 
lemon. 

Sjycinish Cream — No. 2- 

Make a soft custard of a quart of new milk, yolks of six eggs, 
six tablespoonfuls of sugar dissolved in three-quarters of a pound 
of Cox's gelatine in a pint of water; when dissolved add to the 
custard; when hot, strain and flavor to taste; pour into moulds 
and set in a cool place to harden. 

Cream a la Versailles — Ko. 1. 

One quart of cream, half a cupful of sugar, half a teaspoonful of 
vanilla extract, half a teaspoonful of salt, seven eggs, two table- 
spoonfuls of water. Put the sugar in a small frying pan and stir 
until a very light brown, add the water; stir a moment longer, and 
mix with the milk; beat the eggs and salt with a spoon; add the 
mixture and the vanilla to the cream; butter a two-quart Charlotte 
Russe mould lightly, and put the custard into it; jDut the mould into 
a pan of warm (not hot) water and bake slowly until the custard is 
firm in the centre. It should take forty minutes, but if the oven 
is quite hot it will be done in thirty minutes. Test it by putting 
a knife down into the centre, for if the custard is not milky it is 
done. Set away in a cold place until serving time. It must be 
ice cold when eaten. Turn out in a flat dish and pour caramel 
seed over it. 

Cream a la Versailles — JSFo. 2. 

One quart of milk, half a cupful of sugar, half a teaspoonful of 
vanilla extract, half a teaspoonful of salt, seven eggs, two table- 
spoonfuls of water; put the sugar in a small frying-pan and stir 
until a very light brown; add the water, stir a moment longer and 
mix with the milk. Beat the eggs and salt with a spoon ; add the 
mixture and the vanilla to the milk. Butter a two-quart Charlotte 
Russe, mould lightly and put the custard into it. Put the 
inould into a basin of warm (not hot) water and bake slowly until 



114 CREAM. 

the custard is firm in the centre. It should take forty minutes, 
but if the oven is quite hot it will be done in thirty minutes. Test 
l:)y putting a knife down into the centre, and if the custard is not 
milky it is done. Set away in a cold place until serving time. It 
must be ice-cold when eaten. Turn out on a flat dish and pom- 
caramel seed over it. 

Grange Tapioca. 

Four oranges, cut fine, juice of two lemons; mix the oranges 
and lemons together and sweeten to the taste. Soak over night 
three tablespoonfuls of tapioca, and in the morning boil it with 
water until soft, then mix well the oranges and lemons, and set 
away until very cold. Serve with cream. 

Charlotte liusse — No. 1. 

Stir into the j^olks of four eggs one-fourth of a pound of white 
sugar, beat and mix it with a half pint of milk; let it simmer, but 
do not let it come to a boil; set it away to cool. Boil one ounce of 
gelatine in a pint of water until it is reduced to one-half; stir it 
thoroughly into the custard and let it get cold; whip to a stiff 
froth a quart of rich cream, taking it off in spoonfuls as you whip 
it and put on a hair sieve to drain; when the custard is .quite cold, 
and not quite set or congealed, stir the whipped cream gradually 
into it. 

Charlotte Eusse — JSfo. 2. 

One quart of cream scalded, (rich cream,) half a box of gelatine 
in winter, in summer, a whole box dissolved in a jiint of milk; when 
Avell dissolved, stir it into the scalded cream; after removing from 
the fire, add a cup of granulated sugar, flavor with vanilla, then 
pour it into a pan and set it away to cool, after which Ijeat the cus- 
tard one hour, or until it appears very light. Have a mould or 
glass dish, line it with lady fingers or strips of sponge cake, then 
pour the custard into the mould, and let it stiffen before turning it 
out. 



CREAM. 115 

Strawberry (Jharlotte. 

Line the bottom and sides of a dish with slices of fresh sponge 
cake, till the centres with fresh strawberries, sprinkle sugar over 
them, then whisk a pint of sweetened cream; as the froth rises, take 
it off until all is done. Pile the cream on top of the strawberries, 
and send it to the table. 

Moon Shine. 

Beat the whites of two eggs very light, sweeten to the taste, then 
slice one banana into very thin pieces, stir into the eggs; or, if you 
choose, take two oranges; any kind of fruit will do. Do not make 
it until just before going to the table. 

ZiC^non 3feringve. 

Beat the yolks of six eggs until they are thick, add the juice of 
two lemons and the grated rind of one, and a cup of sugar. Cook 
in a farina kettle. When the mixture begins to thicken add the 
whites beaten stift". Stir constantly until quite stiff. Line a deep 
dish with sponge cake, and pour the meringue over; frost with the 
beaten whites of two eggs and four spoonfuls of sugar. Brown in 
a quick oven. 

Orange Snov\ 

Four large sweet oranges, juice of all and grated peel of one, 
juice and half the grated peel of one lemon, one package of gela- 
tine soaked in a cup of cold water, whites of four eggs whipped 
stiff. One large cup of powdered sugar, one pint of boiling water; 
mix juice and peel of the fruit with the soaked gelatine, add the 
sugar, stir up well and let stand one hour, then pour on the boiling 
water and stir until clear; strain through a coarse cloth, pressing 
and wringing it hard; when quite cold stir into the frothed whites 
gradually until thick and white. \yet the mould and pour in ; let 
it stand in a cool place eight hours. 

Rock Cream. 
One cup of rice, whites of five eggs; boil the rice in fresh milk 
until very soft; sweeten with pulverized sugar, pile it on a dish, 



116 CREAM. 

lay on in different places lumps of currant jelly; beat the whites 
to a stiff froth with pulverized sugar, flavor with vanilla; add to 
this when beaten stiff a tablespoonful of rich cream; drop it over 
the rice, giving it the form of a rock of snow. 

Vanilla tS/iow. 

Two teacupfuls of white sugar, whites of five eggs, one-half a 
box of gelatine, one and a half pints of warm water; flavor with 
vanilla, and when the gelatine is cold, put the whites of the eggs 
and sugar into it. Beat all together half an hour. Take the yolks 
of the eggs, one pint of milk and sugar, make a boiled custard to 
eat with it, or if you prefer, you can eat it with sugar and cream. 

bavarian Cream. 

One quart of sweet cream, yolks of four eggs, half an ounce of 
gelatine, one small cupful of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla or 
bitter almonds; soak the gelatine in enough cold water to cover it 
for one hour; drain and stir into a pint of boiling hot cream; beat 
the yolks smooth with the sugar and add the boiling mixture, a 
little at a time; beat until it thickens, but do not boil it; remove 
it from the fire, flavor, and while it is still hot stir in the other pint 
of cream whipped to a stiff froth; whip the cream a spoonful at a 
time and stir in until the custard is of the consistency of sponge 
cake batter. Put in a mould. 

Hamburg Cream. 

One pound of sugar, twelve eggs, two lemons; grate the rind 
of the lemon, then grate the lemon, and add to the sugar; let it 
come to a boil, then add the yolks, well beaten; when it boils, add 
the whites, beaten stiff; when it again boils add the grated rind; 
when cold add the lemons; if they are not juicy add a little water 
to the sugar. 

Leynon Cream — No. 1. 

To one-half l)ox of Cox's gelatine take one and a half pints of 
cold water, dissolve over the fire, then add one ])oand of white 



CREAM. 117 

sugar, rinds of two and juice of three lemons; boil all together for 
a few minutes; when nearly cold add the whites of three eggs 
beaten to a froth ; beat all well together, then set in a cool place; 
when it begins to thicken, stir thoroughly; let stand again, and 
beat as before; the oftener it is beaten the whiter it will be; pour 
into moulds; serve with cream. This quantity is enough for twelve 
persons. 

Jjcmon Cream — N'o. 2- 

One large lemon, rind and all, two and a half cups of milk, set 
on the stove to boil, add two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch mixed 
smooth with a little milk, add the yolks of three eggs, well beaten, 
to the cornstarch, stir in the boiling milk, then add the lemon 
juice; stir continually until it is as thick as custard ; sweeten to 
taste, add the well beaten whites of the eggs, stir in and jDOur in 
cups to cool. 

Italian Cj'ea?n. 

Put two pints of cream in two bowls, in one bowl mix six ounces 
of sugar, juice of two lemons; then add the other pint of cream; 
stir the whole very hard. Boil two ounces of gelatine or one- 
third of a paper with four small cups of water until it is reduced 
to one-half. "When the gelatine is lukewarm, stir it well with tlie 
other ingredients and mould. 

J^lbavoe. 

One pint of cream whipped stiff, one ounce of isinglass, one 
pint of water, four ounces of sugar, one vanilla bean. Boil the 
isinglass in the pint of water until reduced to one-half a pint; stir 
in the cream when the isinglass gets lukewarm, then pour in the 
mould and eat with whipped cream. 

European Cream. 

One and a half pints of milk, one half a box of gelatine, six 
eggs, one quarter of a pound of sugar, flavor with vanilla. Put 
the gelatine in the milk, set it on the fire, but do not let it come to 
a boil; then add the yolks of the eggs beaten light, sugar and va- 



118 CREAM. 

nilla; let it simmer; lastly add the whites of the eggs beaten light; 
pour the whole in a glass dish and lay whipped cream over the top. 

Chocolate Cream. 

One quart of rich milk, five eggs, one large tablespoonful of 
cornstarch, four large tablespoonfuls of chocolate. Dissolve the 
chocolate well before putting in the boiling milk, add the yolks, 
keep the whites for the top, sweeten to taste. Boil about as long 
as cornstarch custard. 

Snov) Cream — No. 1. 

Half a box of gelatine dissolved in one pint of boiling water; 
keep stirring and while warm add two cups of sugar, and the 
whites of four eggs, two tablespoonfuls of vanilla; beat half an 
hour, then pour in a glash dish. Make the day before vising. To 
be eaten with cream. 

Snmc Cream — No. 2. 

Beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, then stir in two large 
spoonfuls of powdered white sugar and three teaspoonfuls of 
sweet wine. Beat the whole well together, then add a pint of 
thick cream. 

Raspberry Cream. 

Dissolve three-quarters of an ounce of the best isinglass and five 
ounces of loaf sugar in three-quarters of a pint of new milk, by 
boiling it slowly for ten minutes; strain it into a bowl and add a 
pint of rich cream with the juice of three-quarters of a pint of 
fresh raspberries, which have been cooked with three ounces of 
sugar for a quarter of an hour; strain into the mixture and turn 
rapidly with an egg beater until it begins to thicken. Dip a mould 
in cold water, put in the cream and place on ice until firmly set. 
Turn out carefully. Strawberry can be made the same. 

nice Ice (Jream. 

Half a cup of rice boiled in three pints of milk, a little salt. 
When the rice is done take four eggs and beat them separately; 



CREAM. 119 

stir the yellows into the boiling rice. Sweeten, flavor according to 
taste; lastly stir in the whites. 

Whijjj^ed Cream. 

One and one-half pints of good rich cream, sweetened and fla- 
vored with three teaspoonfuls of vanilla; add the white of one 
^SEi pl^ce the cream over ice until chilled, whip with an egg 
beater, large silver spoon or whip churn until it froths; as fast as 
the froth rises lay on a sieve and re-whip all that passes through the 
sieve; set on ice, or in a cool place. Serve alone or with fresh berries. 







a^^vjiir^.H^a^r^.'gcjiic^j^gBsapBtSr'.aEa ^^a^^^BS'^s^aaJa 



ICE CFJJiAM, ETC. 



JIoic to Freeze Ice Cream. 

After the cream is sweetened and flavored put it into the freezer 
and set the freezer into a keg nearly the same depth of the freezer. A 
hole should be made in the bottom of the keg, through which the water 
can escape from the melting ice; the keg should be somewhat lar- 
ger than the freezer, so that plenty of ice can be packed around it. 
The ice should be crushed fine and packed around the freezer with 
alternate layers of coarse salt until it almost reaches the lid of the 
freezer; the ice should l)e the last layer, to prevent the salt from 
getting into the freezer when opened. Snow is better than ice for 
freezing cream, as the cold produced by it when mixed with salt 
is more intense. To prevent the ice from melting too rapidly, 
cover the whole with a blanket, let it remain undisturbed for half 
an hour, then open the lid of the freezer, scrape off what adheres 
to the sides and mix it with the rest; then shake it constantly for 
half an hour; this is done by turning it half-way round, then back, 
opening the freezer every ten minutes to scrape off what adheres 
to the sides, and mixing it with the rest. This process is necessary 
to make it smooth. A pudding stick should be used to scrape the 
cream from the sides of the freezer if there is any acid put in the 
cream, as the action of the acid on an iron spoon will impart an un- 
pleasant flavor. In an hour the cream will be frozen if the weather 
is dry, if damp, a longer time will be required. It is then ready 
to put into the moulds. Place the mould in the keg with fresh 
ice and salt until they are entirely covered, then cover with the 
blanket. To freeze the cream sufficiently for eating usually takes 



ICE CREAM, FROZEN CUSTARD, &c. 121 

two hours. If you have no moulds let it remain in the freezer, 
packino- it in fresh ice and salt. When you wish to remove the 
cream from the moulds, wet cloths in boiling- water, then wrap 
them around the sides and bottom of the mould. 

TV/;/i//rt Ice Cream. 

Half a pound of sugar to a quart of cream, or three-fourths of a 
pound to two quarts of cream. If cream alone is used, flavor with 
the extract of vanilla, and mix with the cream, powdered white su- 
gar. When well mixed, freeze according to the directions. If 
preferred, the cream may be flavored with the vanilla bean. It 
should be boiled in a little milk to extract the flavor; let it cool and 
mix with the cream. 

Ice Cream — Ho. 1. 

Six quarts of cream, three pounds of sugar, three quarts of new 
milk, three eggs, beat light; divide the milk; boil one part and 
stir in three tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, mixed very smooth ; stir 
constantly while boiling ; when boiled stir in the other part; let it 
stand to get cold, and strain through a bag; flavor with vanilla, or 
anything to suit the taste. This makes four gallons. 

Ice Cream — N'o. 2. 

Two quarts of cream, two quarts of strippings, one pound of 
sugar, six or eight eggs, two tablespoonfuls of vanilla. I\Iix well 
and strain. 

Plne-Aiyple Ice Cream. 

Take one common sized pine-apjole, take ojff the rind, slice thin 
and bruise ; sprinkle with sugar, and let it stand one hour, to ex- 
tract the flavor; then strain into the cream. One pine-apple is 
sufficient for four quarts of cream. Use half a pound of cream- 
powdered sugar to each quart of cream. 

Straiohen-y Ice Cream. 
Take one quart of strawberries to four quarts of cream, bruise 
them and sprinkle with sugar; let stand half an hour to extract 
the flavor, then strain into the cream. In using fruits always have 



122 ICE CREAM, FROZEN CUSTARD, &c. 

enough to slightly thicken the cream and impart a good flavor. 
Use half a pound of cream powdered sugar to each quart of cream. 

Lemon Ice Cream. 
To each quart of cream add the juice and grated rind of one 
lemon, three-quarters of a pound of sugar; mix and strain into the 
cream and freeze according to preceding directions. 
Arrovn'oot Ice Cream — No. 1. 
Allow one large spoonful of arrowroot to a quart of milk and 
two quarts of cream; mix the arrowroot smooth with a little of the 
milk, and stir it into the remainder while boiling. "When the whole 
boils thick like starch, remove it from the fire, flavor with extract 
of lemon; strain it, and let it remain until cold before mixing it 
with the cream. Use the same amount of sugar as for pine-apple 
ice cream. 

Arroioroot Ice Cream — N'o. 2. 

One pint of cream, one pint of milk, one lemon, three-quarters 
of a tablespoonful of arrowroot ; thicken the milk with the arrow- 
root and lemon rind, make very sweet with white sugar, boil the 
whote and strain into the cream freezer. When partly frozen add 
the Juice of the lemon. 

Peach Ice Cream — No. 1 

Delicious peach ice cream can be made by rubbing through a 
sieve one dozen ripe peaches, six ounces of white sugar, and one 
pint and a half of sweet cream, mixed with the pulp. After a thor- 
ough beating freeze as you do common ice cream. If you wish to 
give it the color of the peach, add a few drops of the juice of the 
red raspberry. 

Peach Ice Cream — No. 2. 

Make a custard of one pint of milk, three eggs, one pint of su- 
gar. Dissolve half a box of gelatine in one cup of cold water; then 
pour a cup of boiling water over it, when thoroughly melted, mix 
Avith the custard, and let it cool. Take two quarts of peaches, mash 
them up, add to the custard, and three pints of cream. Freeze as 
you do ice cream. 



ICE CREAM, FROZEN CUSTARD, &c. 123 

Fruit Frapers. 
Line a mould with vanilla ice cream, fill the centre with fresh 
berries, or fruit cut in thin slices, cover with ice cream, cover it 
closely and set in a freezer for half an hour, with salt and ice well 
packed around it. The fruit must be chilled but not frozen. Straw- 
berries are delicious thus prepared. 

Frozen Custard — JVo. 1. 
Four pints of ^ood rich milk, eight eggs; boil the milk; when 
boiling stir in the eggs and one pint of sugar, after having beaten 
them together. Let it stand until cool, then put in three or two 
pints of cream; vanilla to taste; more sugar if liked, then freeze as 
ice cream. 

Frozen Custard — ISfo. 2. 

Sweeten a quart of cream or rich milk with half a pound of su- 
gar, flavor it with vanilla or lemon, set it on the fire in a farina 
kettle; as soon as it begins to boil stir in a tablespoonful of rice 
flour previously mixed smooth with a little milk; after it has boiled 
a few minutes take it off the fire and stir in very gradually six eggs 
which have been beaten until stiff; when quite cold freeze as ice 
cream. 

Frozen Custard — N^o. 3. 

One quart of rich milk, half a pound of sugar, put it on the fire 
and let it come to a boil. Stir in the boiling milk a tablespoonful 
of cornstarch previously mixed smooth with a little milk, then add 
six eggs, after they have been beaten light; flavor to suit your 
taste. Freeze as you do ice cream. 

Orange Ice. 

One gallon of water, four oranges, a little of the grated peel, 
two lemons sweetened to taste; just before freezing add the whites 
of six eggs beaten to a stifF froth. 

Lemon Ice. 

Six lemons, two pounds of sugar, one quart of water, whites of 
six eggs, one scant tablespoonful of cornstarch boiled in half a pint 



124 ICE CREAM, FROZEN CUSTARD, &c. 

of water and added to the water, sugar and lemons. Add the 
beaten whites just before freezing. 

Pine- Apple JVater Ice. 

Take one pine-apple to two quarts of water; prepare the apples 
the same as for cream; use one pound of sugar for each quart of 
water. Freeze the same as ice cream. 

Strcuoberry or Jiaspbeiry Water Ice. 

Take one quart of berries to two quarts of water, and prepare 
the same as for strawberry ice cream, using one pound of sugar for 
each quart of water. Freeze the same as ice cream. 

Orange Water Ice. 
The juice of six large oranges and the rind of one, the juice of 
one large lemon, two cups of sugar, a quart of water ; mix all to- 
gether; strain and freeze like ice cream. 

liaspberry /Sherbet. 
Two quarts of raspberries, one cup of sugar, one pint and a half 
of water, the juice of a large lemon, one tablespoonful of gelatine; 
mash the berries and sugar together, and let them stand two hours. 
Soak the gelatine in enoug-h cold water to cover it. Add one 
pint of the water to the berries and strain. Dissolve the gelatine 
in half a pint of boiling water, add this to the strained mixture 
and freeze. 

Ya?ulki. 

When vanilla bean is used for flavoring prepare it by cutting in 
small pieces and boiling in a small quantity of milk or cream to 
extract the flavor, then pour into the cream. One vanilla bean is 
sufficient for four quarts of cream. 

Vanilla Extract. 

Half an ounce of vanilla beans, half an ounce of Turkey beans 
blanched and cut fine, half a pint of water, half a pint of alcohol; 
set behind the stove, shaking occasionally; ready for use in a few 
days. You can use and put on another quantity of alcohol and 
water. 



^'t ^'~»'^^'t^-^-3 't^Sw--^^^°t;^ '"f^"'r^p:E^ 



CONFECTIONEIO'- 

(Jocoanut Candy — No. 1. 

Peel off the inner rind of the cocoanut, two pounds of sifted 
white sugar, the beaten whites of two eggs, and the milk of the 
nut, mix all together, make into little cakes. In a short time the 
candy will be ready for use. 

(Jocoanut Candy — No. 2. 

Two cups of granulated sugar, half a cup of water; boil for six 
minutes, add one grated cocoanut; as soon as the sugar is soft, 
spead on white greased papers, and when cold cut in squares. 

Cocoanut Drops — No. 1. 

Beat the whites of three eggs to a froth, mix one pound of sand 
sugar, one pound of grated cocoanut, then stir the whites of the 
eggs in the cocoanut. Drop on paper; set away for one week. 

Cocoanut Drops — No. 2. 
One grated cocoanut, one pound of granulated sugar, one-fourth 
of a pound of flour, the whites of six eggs. Flour the tins instead 
(jf greasing them. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Cocoanut Kisses. 
Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, stir in half a cocoa- 
nut grated. Drop in the pan in very small cakes. 

Cocoanut Pyramids. 
Three eggs, ten ounces of sugar, as much grated cocoanut as 
will form a stiff paste. Whisk the eggs very light and dry, add 



126 CONFECTIONERY. 



the sugar gradually, and when all the sugar is in stir in the cocoa- 
nut. Roll a tablespoonful of the mixture in your hands in the 
form of a pyramid, place them on paper in a tin pan, and bake in 
rather a cool oven until they are just a little brown. 

Chocolate Kisses. 

Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, stir in a half a cake 
of grated chocolate. Spice to suit the taste. Drop into the pan in very 
small cakes, and bake quickly. 

E[HJ Kisses. 

Take one-half of a pound of granulated sugar, and the whites 
of four eggs beaten very stiff. Line tlie pan with writing paper 
and drop in spots with a teaspoon. Bake in a slow oven three- 
quarters of an hour. 

Kisses. 

Two pounds of pulverized sugar, the whites of fourteen eggs 
beaten stiff. Bake on buttered paper in a moderate oven. 

Letnon Candy. 

Four cups of white sugar, one lemon, half a cup of water. 
Boil without stirring. 

Sugar Candy. 

Two cups of white sugar, half a cup of vinegar, half a cup of 
water, one tablespoonful of vanilla. Boil fifteen minutes. 

Cream Candy. 
One coffee-cupful of white sugar, one or two tablespoonfuls of 
water, enough to make it dissolve nicely as it heats. Boil without 
stirring in a bright tin pan until it will crisp in water, .like molas- 
ses candy. Just before it is done put in a tablespoonful of extract 
of vanilla, and a quarter of a tablespoonful of cream of tartar. When 
sufficiently done, pour it into a buttered pan, and when cool enough 
to handle, work it as you would molasses candy, vmtil it is perfect- 
ly white; then stretch and lay it on a marble slab, or, if you have 
to use the moulding board, put buttered papers over it, and with a 



CONFECTIONERY. 127 



chopping knife cut it into small pieces, and set it away until it 
creams, which it will do as it dries out. If it grains before it is 
done, or before you have a chance to pull it, put it back into the 
pan and pour water on it, and boil it over again. 

Honey Candy. 
Two cups of white sugar, one-half a cup of water, four table- 
spoonfuls of honey. Boil until it will crisp in water like molasses 
candy. 

Peppermint. 

One pound of granulated sugar, enough water to thicken, stir 
constantly for five minutes, take it off" the stove, and add twenty- 
two drops of oil of peppermint, then beat until thick. Drop on a 
sheet of tin. 

(Jliocolate Drops. 

Two cups of sugar, half a cup of sweet milk or water. Boil 
the milk and sugar seven minutes without stirring. Take it off", beat 
until stiff, flavor with vanilla, then make* it into little balls. Steam 
one cake of grated chocolate over the teakettle; roll the balls in it, 
and set them on a platter to cool. 

Lancaster Candy. 

One pound of white sugar, one cup of water. When it boils, 
pour in two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Do not stir it, only move 
the pot around, so it does not burn. "When done pour it on a but- 
tered dish, pour vanilla on it, then pull it. 

Chocolate Caramels — No. 1. 

One cup of chocolate, two cups of white sugar, two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, one cup of cream; boil until it will harden when 
dropped into cold water. Don't stir while cooking. 

Cliocolate Caramels — No. 2. 

One cup of chocolate cut up fine, two cups of brown sugar, one 
cup of warm water, three-quarters of a cup of butter; boil until it 
will harden when dropped into cold water. 



128 CONFECTIONERY. 



Chocolate Caramels — No. 3. 

One and a half pounds of brown sugar, one teacupful of cream, 
one-fourth of a pound of butter, one-fourth of a pound of choco- 
late. 

Butter Scotch — No. 1. 

One quart of molasses, one cup of white sugar, not boiled quite 

hard. 

Butter Scotch— No. 2. 

Two cups of brown sugar, one cup of water, one tablespoonful 
of molasses, butter the size of an e^il,. 

Peanut CamJij. 

One pound of brown sugar, one cup of water, half a cup of mo- 
lasses, a small lump of butter, one pound of peanuts; boil as you 
would molasses candy. 

Hlckorynut Kisses. 

One pound of kernels, one pound of white sugar, the whites of 
four eggs; beat the sugar and eggs as for icing, then drop the 
kernels into them ; drop them on white greased paper in a drip- 
ping pan; bake a light brown. Do not take them out too soon, 
or they may fall. This recipe makes a large quantity. One-fourth 
of a pound of kernels, one-fourth of a pound of sugar, and two 
eggs, makes plenty for an ordinary family. 

Fig Canehj. 

One pound of sugar, one pint of water; boil over a slow fire; 
when done add a small piece of butter. Be careful to boil slowly 
and not to quite the usual thickness. Turn all over split figs. 

Almond Camli/. 

Two cups of white sugar, one and a half cups of sweet milk; 
boil until it will crisp in water like molasses candy; then add one 
teacupful and a half of blanched almonds, perfectly dry; refer to 
cake directions to know how to blanch them. 



CONFECTIONERY. 129 



Tafy. 

One ([uart of molasses, one and a half cups of sugar, a lump of 
butter the size of a walnut, a quarter of a teaspoonful of soda just 
before you put it on the stove. Stir it all the time after it com- 
mences to boil. 

Corn Balls. 

Boil one cup of molasses and two large tablespoonfuls of sugar 
twenty minutes, stirring all the time. When done rub half a tea- 
spoonful of soda smooth and stir in dry; stir in the popped corn, 
l)utter the hands, and make into balls. 

Hoarhound Candy. 

Boil two ounces of hoarhound in water until the strenfftli is all 
extracted, reduce to one cup, strain, and add to it one pound of 
sugar, half a cup of molasses, and a small lumjD of butter. Boil 
until it will harden when dropped into water; pour into a greased 
pan and mark off in squares. 

Maple 'Walnuts. 

Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, stir in enough powdered" 
maple sugar to make it like hard frosting, dip the walnut meats, 
which you have taken care to remove from the shells without break- 
ing, in a syrup made by boiling for two or three minutes two table- 
spoonfuls of maple sugar in one of water. Press some of the hard 
frosting between the two halves of the walnut and let it harden. 

Cream 'Walnuts. 

Two cups of granulated sugar, half a cup of water; boil from 
five to seven minutes, then take enough of the cream after cooling- 
somewhat, to make a flat, round candy, put two walnut meats on 
it, place them on a greased plate and set away to harden. 

Chocolate Macxiroons. 

Melt slowly, and with care, three ounces of plain chocolate ; 

make a thick paste by stirring in gradually one pound of powdered 
9 



130 CONFECTIONERY 



sugar and the well beaten whites of three eggs, then spread or roll 
it as smooth as possible to a sheet about a quarter of an inch thick. 
Cut it into small, round, and fancy shaped pieces, butter your cooky 
tins and scatter a little flour and sugar over the bottom. Use equal 
(juantities of each, and lay the macaroons on. Bake in a hot oven, 
but avoid having it hot enough to scorch them. 

Geneva Candy. 

Eight tablespoonf uls of water, two cups of sugar, one cup of mo- 
lasses, two tablespoonfuls of butter, evenly melted. Boil twenty 
minutes. 




POULTIO' AND GAME. 



tSelecting Poultry. 

Chickens. — If a hen's spur is hard, and the scales on the legs 
rough, she is old, whether you see her head or not, but the head 
•will corroborate your observations. If the under bill is so stiff 
that you cannot bend it down, and the comb thick and rough, leave 
her, no matter how fat and plump, for some one less particular. A 
young hen has only the rudiments of spurs, the scales on the legs 
are smooth, glossy and fresh-colored, whatever the color may be, 
the claws tender and short, the nails sharp, the under bill soft and 
the comb thin and smooth. 

Turkeys.— The old hen turkey has rough scales on the legs, 
callosities on the soles of the feet, and long, strong claws; a young 
one is the reverse of all these marks. When the feathers are on, 
and the old turkey cock has a long tuft or beard, a young one has 
but a sproutless one, and when they are off the smooth scales on 
the legs decide the point, besides the difference in size of the wat- 
tles of the neck and the elastic shoot up«s>n the nose. 

Geese. — An old goose, when alive, is known by the rough legs, 
the strength of the wings, (particularly at the pinions), the thick- 
ness and strength of the bill, and the fineness of the feathers, and 
when plucked, by the legs, the tenderness of the skin under the 
wings, by the pinions and the bill and the coarseness of the skin. 

Ducks. — Ducks are distinguished by the same means, but there 
is this difference that a duckling's bill is much longer in propor- 
tion to the breadth of its head than the old duck. 



132 POULTRY AND GAME. 

Pigeons. — A young pigeon is distinguished by its pale colors, 
smooth scales, tender, collapsed feet, and the yellow, long down 
interspersed among its feathers. A pigeon that can fly has always 
red-colored legs and no down, and is then too old for use. 

Poultry. 

Catch your chicken without frightening, cut olf the head, when dead 
scald it Avell by dipping it in and out of a pail of boiling water, be- 
ing careful not to scald so much that the skin will come off; hold 
the fowl with the head toward you, and pull the feathers away 
from you; if pulled in a contrary direction from which they lie, the 
skin is more likely to be torn. Be careful to remove all pin feathers; 
those that will not pull out can be removed with a knife by scrap- 
ing gently; lift the lid of your stove, lay in a piece of paper, when 
it has caught nicely, singe quickly, so that it will not be smoked. 
Wash a clean place on a meat board in a large pan, and with a 
sharp knife cut off the feet at the first joint, a little below, allow- 
ing a little to shrink, so that the joint will not be exposed; then 
remove the oil bag above the tail; take out the crop by making a 
slit at the back of the neck three inches long, and remove carefully 
all connected with the craw or wind-pipe, cut the neck' bone off, 
allowing the skin to cover it. Turn the chicken on its back, and 
cut a slit, three inches long, frc m the tail upwards, being careful 
to cut only through the skin, put your fingers into the opening and 
remove all the intestines with care, so as not to break the gall-bag, 
located near the upper part of the breastbone and attached to the 
liver; if broken, washing will not remove the bitter taint on any 
part it touches; then trim off the fat, if too much, at the lower in- 
cision; split the gizzard and take out the inside and inner lining, 
vvash it well and lay it aside to be cooked with the gravy; wash the 
liver and lireast, and put with it for the same purpose; wash the 
fowl thoroughly and let it lie in cold water an hour, drain and wipe 
carefully with a dry cloth, and it is ready to be filled and placed to 
roast. To give it a plump appeaiance before filling, flatten the 
breastbone, fold a cloth several thicknesses and ]«)und it, 1)eing 



POULTRY AND GAME. 133 

careful not to break the skin; fill the ]>reast first, but not too iull, 
allowing room to swell; fill the body closer than the breast, sew up 
both openings with fine cord, and sew the skin of the neck over 
upon the back. When done, carefully draw out the threads so as 
not to break the skin. Lay the wings in a natural position, allow- 
ing the points to almost touch the breastbone, wrap cord around 
and tie them down; press the legs down, make a little incision in 
each leg to hold the cord, and wrap around the tail sufficient cord 
to hold it firmly; rub salt all over it, lay in the pan, dust well with 
flour, lay Ints of butter all over it, sprinkle pepper over, and put in 
tlie pan a pint of boiling water. Some good cooks lard their tur- 
keys. Larding destroys the natviral flavor, but makes them more 

To Cat ifp a C/ncA-en. 

Lay the chicken on a board in a large pan. Cut off the feet at 
the first joint, cut off the wings and legs at the joint which vmites 
them to the body, separate the first joint of the leg from the sec- 
ond by cvitting through the joint, cut out the oil bag on the back of 
the tail, cut a slit in the back of the neck and take out the wind- 
pipe and craw, make a slit cross-wise two inches above the tail, 
extend the slit to the joint where the legs were cut off, take out 
the entrails carefully to prevent breaking the gall bag, a small 
sack of a greenish hue attached .to the liver, then with the left 
hand hold the breast of the chicken and with the right bend back 
the rump until the joint in the back separates; cut it off and put in 
water; separate the breast from the neck by cutting downwards 
toward the head, breaking or cutting through the joint that con- 
nects them ; lay down the skin of the neck and remove all stringy 
substances; cut the breast in two pieces; clean the gizzard by 
cutting through the thick part first and peeling off without break- 
ng the inside lining; if it breaks open the gizzard, rinse off the 
contents, peel oft' the inner lining and wash thoroughly. "Wash in 
two waters and the chicken is ready to be cooked. 



134 POULTRY AND GAME. 

Stewed Chicken. 

Put on two young chickens in three pints of cold water; when 
it comes to a boil skim and add one teaspoonful of salt; boil until 
tender; mix well together one tablespoonful of flour and one of 
butter, and add to the chicken a few minutes before serving; if it 
boils down too much add a little more water and more salt if nec- 
essary. A good cook is governed by taste. 

Smothered Chicken — No. 1. 

Split down the back and wash clean; lay in the pot with giblets, 
season with salt and pepper, a little butter, and add just enough 
water to keep from burning; cover, and watch closely; when ten- 
der lay in a dripping pan ; pour the water that is in the pot around 
them and add more boiling water; if not seasoned enough add 
more. Lay bits of butter over the chicken, dust well with flour 
and set in the oven to brown. When done mix one tablespoonful 
of flour with a little cream and add to the ])roth to thicken; lift 
the chickens on a warm plate and set the broth on top of the stove 
to boil a miiuite, stirring all the time; then serve. 

Smothered Chicken — No. 2. 

Split the chicken down the back and wash clean and dry, then 
lay in a dripping pan Avith the skin side up, with the giblets; sea- 
son with salt and pepper, and lay bits of butter all over ; sprinkle 
well with flour and put a pint of water around them; cover with a 
close fitting pan. Bake until tender and a nice brown, and baste 
every fifteen minutes with the l^roth in the pan; mix one table- 
spoonful of flour smooth with a little milk and add to the broth; 
when done, lift the chickens on a warm plate; set on a pot of 
boiling water, cover, and set the pan with the broth on the top of 
the stove; let boil a couple of minutes, stirring well; pour a cup- 
ful over the chickens, the balance put into the gravy boat. 

Spa7iish Dish — Chicken cDid Mice. 
Take two young chickens, cut in pieces, a cupful of rice, four 



POULTRY AND GAME. 135 

onions and two peppers sliced thin; put a layer of chicken in your 
sauce pan, sprinkle with rice and add the onions and peppers, also 
pepper and salt; repeat this until you have all in the sauce pan, 
then add a quart of water and cook until tender. 

Fried iSpriiKj Chicken — No. 1. 

Two young chickens, two eggs well beaten; salt and pepper 
the chickens, dip each piece into the eggs, then roll in cracker 
dust; put one tablespoonful of butter into the skillet, let it heat, 
then lay in the chicken; set it in the oven of the stove and cover 
with a tight lid; cook slowly until the under side becomes a nice 
brown, then turn and brown the other side. If necessary, when 
cooking, add more butter; have the giblets and some of the thin 
pieces of the chicken stewing; when done make a thickening of 
flour and water; stir in the broth in which the giblets were boiled, 
then lift the chicken on a warm plate and pour the broth in 
the skillet; if not seasoned enough add a little more. 

Fried /Spring/ Chicken — iVo. 2- 

Have in a frying pan butter and lard, half a teaspoonful of each, 
add more if necessary when frying; roll the chicken in flour and 
cook slowly on the top of the stove for one hour and a half; sprin- 
kle with salt and pepper, and keep covered; when done add just 
a little more flour in the pan and make cream gravy; scrape the 
browned well fi'om the pan, stirring thoroughly. 

Fricasseed Chicken . 

Let the chickens be young, and see that they are carefully singed 
and washed. Cut them up, put them in a stew pan, season with 
butter, pepper and salt; put them in a small quantity of water, 
cook slowly until they are tender; watch it, and if the water is 
evaporated too soon add a little more from the kettle. When 
done put in the yolks of two eggs beaten up with a cup of sweet 
cream, some finely chopped parsley and a little lemon juice, not 
more than a teaspoonful; garnish with parsley. 



13G POULTRY AND GAME. 

Pressed C/dcken — JSfo. 1. 

Take two chickens, boil in a small quantity of water, season 
with butter, salt and pepper: if the water is evaporated too soon, 
add a little more; stew slowly until thoroughly done; take the 
meat from the bones, removing the skin and keeping the light 
meat separate from the dark; chop the meat and if necessary add 
a little more salt and pepper. If you have a mould, use it; if not, 
a deep dish will answer; wet the mould; put in a layer of light 
and a layer of dark meat until all is used, add the liquor it was 
boiled in, which should be reduced to one cup by boiling down. 
Pour over and put on a heavy weight; when cold cut in slices. If 
you wish you can mix all the m^at together. Add a tablespoon- 
ful of crushed cracker to the broth and pour over. 

Pressed Chicken — JVo. 2. 

Boil two chickens until they will chip easily from the bones; let 
the water be reduced to about one })int in boiling. Pick the meat 
from the bones, taking out all the fat, gristle, and skin, keeping 
the light meat separate . from the dark; chop the meat; wet the 
mould; slice two hard-boiled eggs in, then a layer of dark meat, a 
layer of chopped hard boiled eggs; season with salt and pepper; a 
layer of light meat until all is used; skim the fat from the liquor and 
add a little salt, pepper and butter, and one ounce of gelatine; soak 
the gelatine twenty minutes in cold water before putting in; when 
dissolved pour hot over the chicken. Set away until firm. 

Poast Chicken. 

After the chicken is prepared for filling, make the following 
stuffing: Take the soft part of good light bread, not the crust, and 
do not wet it as is usually done, but rub it diy and fine, and work 
into it a piece of butter the size of an egg. Season with salt and 
pepper, a teaspoonful of summer savory, thyme, or whatever you 
may prefer, mix well with the hands and moisten with one table- 
spoonful of cream. Rub the chicken well inside and out with salt 
and pepper, then fill; sew each slit with strong thread; tie the 



POULTRY AND GAME. 137 

legs down firmly and press the wings closely to the sides, securing 
them with a string tied around the body, and baste; as one side 
browns, turn over until it is nicely done; cut the soft part of the 
liver and gizzard and put into the gravy; thicken with a little flour 
and butter mixed. 

Chicken ISalad. 

Two chickens, four boiled and four raw eggs. Mix the yolks, and 
rub to a smooth paste the raw yolks, two tablespoon fuls of salad 
oil added gradually to tlie yolks, beat to a smooth paste, add half a 
cup of cream, one tablespoonful of fine white sugar, one teaspoon- 
f ul of salt, one teaspoonful of pepper, and one large teaspoonful of 
mustard, one-third as much celery as chicken. 

tScalloped Chicken. 

Two cups of cold chicken chopped fine, two cups of broken 
crackers, (oyster crackers preferred), three hard-boiled eggs chopped 
fine; mix the eggs with the broken crackers. Lay a layer of crack- 
ers, season with salt and pepper, and lay over a few bits of butter, 
then a layer of chicken, season with salt and pepper, and lay over 
bits of butter alternately until the chicken is used up; finish with 
cracker crumbs on the top; pour over one cup of warm chicken 
broth. Bake half an hour; when done it should be a nice brown. 

Chicken Croquetts — N^o. 1. 

One large chicken chopped fine, one or two sweetbreads chopped 
fine, one teacupful of bread crumbs, and yolks of two eggs; stir 
over the fire until quite stiff; salt and pepper to taste; roll in eg^g 
and cracker dust; fry in lard. 

Chicken Croquetts — JSfo. 2. 

Boil a chicken in a small quantity of water. Par-l)oil a set or 
quart of sweet-breads. Chop both very fine, when cold add pep- 
per, salt, a teaspoonful of sweet-marjoram, and tliyme finely pow- 
dered. Melt two ounces of butter, stir all into the mixture with 
two eggs; when well mixed, add cream enough to mould them, 



138 POULTRY AND GAME. 

which do by pressing into a wine-glass, then slipping a knife in 
alongside, and turning it out on a plate to cool. Do this the day 
before you want to cook them. When you are ready to fry them, 
roll them in beaten egg, then in fine browned bread crumbs or 
cracker crumbs. Fry in boiling lard, the same as fritters. 

Drolled Chicken. 

"Wash and clean the chicken, split down the back, wash and wipe 
dry, lay on the meat board and pound until it will lay flat; season 
with salt and pepper, lay on a hot gridiron over a bed of coals, boil 
until a nice brown, turning often to prevent burning. While the 
chicken is broiling, put the giblets on in a pint of water, and boil 
until tender; chop fine, add a tablespoonful of flour, and one of 
butter well mixed, salt and pepper, and half a cup of cream. When 
the chicken is done, lay it in a pan, pour over the gravy and let it 
boil one minute and serve; or when broiled, take upon a heated 
plate, pour over a little drawn butter, and garnish with slices of 
lemon and parsley. 

Steamed Chlckeii. 

Prepare the chicken the same as for roasting, without filling. 
Rub the chicken on the inside with a little salt and pepper, and 
place it in a steamer in a kettle that will keep it as near the water 
as possible; cover and steam until tender, which will take about 
one hour and thirty-five minutes; when done keep warm until the 
dressing is made, then cut up and lay on the platter. Take one 
pint of gravy from the kettle, mix a tablespoonful of butter with 
two of flour, stir in, then add the yolks of two eggs beaten up with 
a cup of sweet cream, some finely chopped parsley, if necessary, 
and a little salt and pepper. Pour over the chicken one cupful, 
and put the rest in a gravy boat; garnish with parsley and lay 
sliced hard-boiled eggs over the top. 

Chicl-en Pie. 

Cut up two young chickens; put on in three pints of cold water; 
as it boils away add more, so as to have enough for the pie and 



POULTRY AND GAME. 139 

for gravy to serve with. Skim when it comes to a boil, and add 
salt and pepper. Half an lioui before the chicken is done add some 
peeled potatoes of moderate size; when the chicken is tender 
lift out; take the meat from the bones, chop in small pieces, and 
if necessary add a little more salt and pepper. Line your pan 
with rich pastry, lay in a layer of chicken, with little bits of butter 
over it, then a layer of the potatoes, sliced, sprinkle over a little 
flour, alternating until the chicken is used; add a cup of the broth. 
Cover with the pastry, cutting little nicks in the centre. Serve 
with the balance of the broth in the gravy boat. It is ready to 
serve as soon as the crust is baked. Some line a deep pan with 
rich pastry, bake it when done, take it from the pan, set it on their 
platter, and when the chicken is done fill it. 

Chicl:e)i Oyster Pie. 

Line a deep pan with rich pastry; roll another piece of the 
pastry, mark it off in squares, lay in a long pan and bake; when 
done take out of the pan. Prepare the chicken the same as for 
chicken pie, only reduce the broth and add the oyster liquor; when 
the chicken is ready to cut add the oysters to the chicken broth; 
chop two hard-boiled eggs among the chicken, set the pastry lin- 
ing that was in the pan on the platter, lay a layer of the chicken; 
cut the pastry that was in the long pan into squares, lay a layer on 
the chicken, and a layer of oysters, alternately, until all is used. 
Thicken the broth with one tablespoonful of butter and two of 
flour, well mixed together; add this before you put the oysters 
into the broth. When all is in, pour over the hot chicken broth. 

Broiled Pheasant or Prairie Chicken. 

Scald and roll them in flannel and lay under the stove an hour, 
and you will find them easy to pick. When picked, wash clean, 
and with a sharp- knife remove all shot; put on in a small quan- 
tity of cold water with the giblets, season with salt, pepper and 
butter; let steam until tender; if the water is evaporated too soon, 
add a little more from the kettle; when tender take out; rub over 



140 POULTRY AND GAME. 

with butter and a little more salt and pepper, if the broth in the 
pot is not seasoned highly enough; boil over a brisk fire, turning 
often to prevent burning, skin side up first; thicken the broth they 
were boiled in with one large tablespoonful of butter and one of 
flour, well mixed; pour a cupful over, and serve; put the rest in 
the gravy boat, or pour over a little drawn butter and garnish with 
sliced lemon and parsley. Pigeons ai-e nice cooked in the same 
way. They will require a longer time to cook. 

Smothered Prairie Cliicken. 

Wash perfectly clean, take out the shot, split up the back, wash 
and dry them, lay in a dripping pan with the skin side up; wash 
the giblets, season with salt and pepper and lay bits of butter all 
over; dust with flour and put a pint of water around them; cover 
with a close fitting pan. Bake until tender and a nice brown, and 
baste every fifteen minutes with the broth in the pan; mix two 
tablespoonfuls of flour with a tablespoonful of butter, and add to 
the broth in the pan; when done lift the chickens on a warm plate, 
set on a pot of boiling water, cover, and set the pan with the broth 
on the top of the stove; let it boil a minute, stirring well; pour a 
cupful over the chicken, the balance in the gravy boat. 

Broiled Quails. 

Wash clean, split through the back and dry; flatten them a little by 
laying a folded cloth over them and pounding the breast lightly ; sea- 
son with salt and pepper and broil over hot coals; lay the skin side 
up and baste every few njinutes with butter; when a nice brown turn 
and brown the other side. It will require from fifteen to twenty 
minutes to cook them. Or when the under side is ready to turn lay 
them in a pan, lay bits of butter over them, dust with flour, and 
add half a cup of hot water; set in the oven of the stove on the 
grate and let brown; baste after they are in a few minutes and 
watch closely; when brown, serve. Roast quails the same as 
chicken. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 141 

lioast Wild Duck. 

Take out the shot, wash quickly, rinse and soak in salt water two 
hours, drain and dry with a cloth, and fill with the following stuff- 
ing, which is considered highly satisfactory for a duck, whether 
canvas-back or red-head. It is made by grating enough l)read to 
fill the bird, moisten it with cream, or with milk, in which is put a 
tablespoonful of melted butter, season with salt and pepper, the 
rind of a lemon chopped fine, a tablespoonful of chopped celery, 
and the yolks of two hard-bciled eggs; mix well, and add the 
cream last, pouring in gradually and mixing lightly with the hand; 
then fill; sew each slit with thread, tie the legs down firmly, and press 
the wings close to the sides, securing them with a string tied around 
the body. A little onion in the filling of a wild duck is very nice 
for those who like the flavor of the onion. Then put them on in three 
pints of cold water, add a little salt, let them boil half an hour, take 
them out and put in a dripping-pan, lay bits of butter over, dust with 
flour, set in the oven of the stove to roast; reduce the water they 
were boiled in to one pint, pour in the pan around the ducks. They 
will roast in one hour; if boiled, half an hour; they should be a nice 
brown when done. An oyster filling is very nice for wild ducks. 
When done, thicken the broth with a little flour and liutter well 
mixed. Add to the broth the chopped giblets. 

Turkey Dres-ied vitJi Oysters. 
For a ten ]KJund turkey take a quart of bread crumbs, one pint of 
oysters ; use the soft part of good light bread — not the crust — rub it 
dry and fine, and work into it a piece of butter the size of an egg; 
season highly with salt and pepper, summer savory, or thyme, one 
teasi)oonful of either, and mix well with the hands; strain the oys- 
ter liquor and moisten with two tablespoonfuls warmed. Drain 
the oysters, and fill with one tablespoonful of bread, then one of oys- 
ters, alternating until the turkey is filled. Sew the slits, reduce the 
oyster liquor to one pint, put it in the pan hot, and baste often. 
Rub the turkey with salt and pepper, lay it in the pan on its back 
and lay bits of butter all over, and dust with flour. Lay the gib- 



142 POULTRY AND GAME. 

lets close to the turkey to keep them soft when done; when the 
breast browns, turn on its side; when it browns, turn on the other 
side, so that it will be uniformly browned. Chop the soft parts of 
the gizzard and liver, and mix with the gravy. When you are 
making it, mix a tablespoonful and a half of flour with a half cup 
of cream or milk, to thicken it, A turkey of this size will require 
three hours to roast. 

JBoned Tnrhey. 

When the turkey is carefully picked and singed, lay it on a 
cloth, breast downwards; with a sharp knife cut the skin almost 
the length of the back bone; separate the flesh from the bones on 
one side at a time, carefully lifting the flesh with your fingers and 
slipping the knife under the flesh; when the wings and legs are 
reached cut through the joints on each side till you come to the 
breast bone. Cut carefully around the breast bone, the skin being 
very thin may break; turn back the skin, lift out the carcass and 
proceed to bone the legs and wings, which can be done by scrap- 
ing the flesh down as you pull the bone out. If you wish you can 
leave the bones in the wings and legs, as they are difficult to re- 
move; stuff with farce meat made of one boiled chicken, chopped 
fine, two sweet-breads par-boiled and chopped very fine; when 
cold add salt and pepper, a teaspoonful of sweet-marjoram, or thyme, 
finely powdered, one teacupful of bread crumbs and yolks of two 
hard-boiled eggs; mix into it a tablespoonful of melted butter, moist- 
en the bread crumbs with a little cream. You can add more bread if 
necessary; fill, sew into shape, turn ends of wings under and press 
the legs close to the back and tie all firmly, so that the upper sur- 
face may be plump and smooth for the carver; rub all over with a 
little salt, lay in the dripping pan, sprinkle with pepper, dust with 
flour, lay over bits of butter. Bake until thoroughly done, basting 
often with drippings; pour two cups of boiling water in the pan; 
add more as it boils away. Carve across in slices. 

Goose. 

The goose is best in the autumn and early part of the winter, 



POULTRY AND GAME. 143 

never good in the spring. What is called a green goose is four 
months old. It is insipid after that, though tender. Select a nice 
fat one and roast the same as chicken, and wild goose the same as 
wild duck. They are better killed a day or two before cooking, 
cleaned and hving up in a cool place. Freezing will make them 
more tender and not hurt them; put them in cold water a few min- 
utes to thaw. 

To Pot Binh. 

Grate enough bread to fill the birds, moisten with cream or 
milk, in which is put a half or whole tablespoonful of melted but- 
ter, according to the number of birds, season with salt, pepper, 
half the rind of a lemon chopped fine, a tablespoonful of chopped 
celery and the yolks of three hard boiled eggs; allow two good 
tablespoonfuls for each bird, stuff them, sew the slits, put them in 
a pot with two cups of water, season with salt and pepper and a 
little butter, add more water if necessary; when tender put them 
in a dripping pan, lay bits of butter over them, dust them with 
flour, set in the oven, when a nice brown thicken the gravy with 
a little butter and flour well mixed; add the soft part of the livers 
and gizzards cut fine to the gravy. 

Broiled Woodcock. 

Split through the back, wash clean and dry, lay upon a gridiron 
well greased with butter, skin side up, baste with butter when 
cooking; when the under side is done have ready the warm platter 
with a little butter on it, lay the birds without pressing upon the 
platter with the cooked side down, so that the juices which have 
gathered may run on the platter; quickly place it again on the 
gridiron and cook the other side, season with salt and pepper when 
done to liking, put on the platter again and spread lightly 
with butter, and set in the oven of the stove for a few 
moments, but do not let the butter become oily. They will broil in 
fifteen or twenty minutes. Snipes are the best smothered or 
roasted the same as chicken. 



144 POULTRY AND GAME. 

Habbits. 

Are best in the middle of winter. Put them on in a pint of 
water, season with salt and pepper and cook until tender; then lay 
them in a dripping pan, lay over them bits of butter, dust with 
flour, pour the broth that is in the pot around them, then add a little 
hot water to it if necessary; when a nice brown thicken the gravy 
with a little flour and butter well mixed together; pour a teacupful 
over and put the rest in a gravy boat. Skin the rabbits and lay 
them in salt water two or three hours before cookina". 



STUFFING FOR POULTRY. 

Chestnut Stuffim/. 

Put the chestnuts on a fire in a spider or saucepan to burst the 
skins; shell them and blanch them, and boil them in a little salt 
water until soft; mash them fine, and mix with a little sweet cream 
and some Ijread crumbs previously seasoned with salt and pepper. 

Potato Stuffi)i(j. 

Take two-thirds bread, and one-third boiled potatoes grated, but- 
ter the size of an egg, pepper and salt, the yolks of two hard-boiled 
eggs, one teaspoonful of thyme cut fine; if dry, pulverized. 

Oyster Stuffing for Turkey. 

Grate as much good stale bread as will fill the turkey, and sea- 
son with salt and pepper, and one teaspoonful of summer savory; 
butter the size of an Q^g rubbed into the bread, moisten it slightly 
with oyster liquor, and add as many oysters to it as you choose. 
The usual quantity to a ten-pound turkey is two pints of bread 
crumbs and one pint of drained oysters. 

Oyster /Sti/ffincj. 

Take two dozen oysters and chop them tine, mix them with a 



STUFFING FOR POULTRY. 145 

pint of bread crumbs, season to the taste with salt, pepper, and 
butter, and moisten sb'ghtly with the liquor of the oysters. 

Duck Stuffing. 

A highly satisfactory stuffing for a duck, whether canvas- back 
or red-head, is made by grating enough bread to fill the bird; moist- 
en with cream or milk, in which put a tablespoonf ul of melted but- 
ter. Season with salt, pepper, the rind of a lemon chopped fine, a 
tablespoonful of chopped celery, and the yolks of two hard-boiled 
eggs. A little chopped onion is very nice in wild duck for those 
who like the flavor of an onion. 

Plain Stuffing. 

Take the soft part of good light bread (not the crust), and season 
with salt, pepper, and a teaspoonful of summer savory; rub it dry 
and fine, and moisten with a tablespoonful of cream or milk, and 
work into it a piece of butter the size of an egg^. Work the but- 
ter in first, then moisten with the cream. 



10 




SALADS AND SAUCES. 



Melted or JJravm Butter- — No. 1. 

One and a half ounces of butter, two teaspoonfuls of flour, one 
teacupful of water or milk, a little salt; put the flour and salt in a 
bowl and add a little water or milk, mixing it very smooth; put it 
into a tin cup and set it in a pot of boiling water; as it warms, 
stir; when it has boiled two minutes add the butter by degrees, 
stirring all the time until it is entirely melted, and boil a minute. 
Use water for fish or meat, milk for pudding. 

Drawn Butter — No. 2. 

One and a half teaspoonfuls of flour, two ounces of butter, one 

teacupful of hot water. Mix the flour to a thin, smooth paste 

with a little cold water, and stir into the hot water when it boils, 

add the butter by degrees, and stir until it is well mixed; boil a 

minute or two. 

Brawn Butter — No. 3. 

Three tablespoonfuls of butter, half a pint of hot water, one 
beaten egg, one heaping teaspoonful of flour; mix the flour to 
a smooth paste with a little cold milk, and add to the hot water; 
put into a tin cup and set in a pan of hot water; stir until thick. 
Have ready the beaten Qgg^ in a bowl; take a teaspoonful of the 
mixture from the tin cup and put in the Qgg, and beat until light, 
repeating until you have beaten in three teaspoonfuls. Then set 
aside the bowl and stir the butter into the tin cup gradually until 
thoroughly mixed, then add the beaten egg in the same way. 

Hotel Sauce. 

Three-quarters of a teacupful of drawn butter, one teaspoonful 



SALADS AND SAUCES. U7 

of parsley chopped fine, one lemon, cayenne pepper and salt to 
taste, one and a half teaspoonfuls of flour, one teacupful of hot 
water. Mix the flour to a thin, smooth paste with a little cold 
water and stir into the hot water; when it boils add the butter by 
degrees and stir until well mixed; boil a minute or two, add the 
lemon juice and the pepper and salt; beat hard, and stir in the 
parsley; let it boil up once. This is stock sauce, being suitable 
for so many dishes — roast or boiled. 

Egg Sauce. 

The yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, three quarters of a teacup- 
ful of drawn butter; chop the yolks of the eggs very fine and beat 
into the hot drawn butter. This is used for boiled fowls and boiled 
fish; for the fowls you can add some parsley, chopped fine; for 
the fish, masturtion seed or chopped pickles; for boiled beef omit 
the boiled eggs, and beat up two raw ones very light in a cup 
and put into the drawn butter as described in number three; for 
boiled beef or chicken, you may use the hot broth taken from the 
pot in which the meat is cooking after it has been skimmed and 
boiled for some time. 

Horse-lxadlsh Sauce. 

One tablespoonful of grated horse-radish, one teaspoonful of 

prepared mustard, one teaspoonful of crushed sugar, four table- 

•spoonfuls of vinegar; mix thoroughly, serve with cold or warm 

roast meat. 

Egg Sauce for Salt Fish. 

Four eggs, half a pint of melted butter, a little lemon juice; 
boil the eggs hard, put them into cold water for a few minutes, 
chop the eggs into small pieces, not too fine, melt the butter and 
stir in the eggs very hot. 

Tjohster Sauce. 

Pound the spawn with two anchovies, pour on two spoonfuls of 
gravy, and strain into some melted butter, then put in the meat of 
the lobster; give it one boil, and add a little lemon juice. 



148 SALADS AND SAUCES. 

Pepper Vinegar. 

Six pods of red peppers, broken up, three dozen of black pep- 
per corns, two tablespoonfuls of white sugar, one quart of good 
vinegar; scald the vinegar in which the sugar has been dissolved, 
pour over the peppers, put into a jar and steep ten days; strain and 
bottle; this is eaten with boiled fish and raw oysters, and is use- 
ful in the preparation of salads, 

Mayonaise Dressing. 

Yolks of two raw eggs, half a pint of olive oil or melted butter, 
Juice of two lemons or a small cup of vinegar, two saltspoonfuls 
of salt, one of mustard, cayenne pepper to taste; beat the eggs to 
a cream, add the seasoning, then the vinegar and oil, alternately; 
add the butter by degrees; jjeat until as thick as boiled custard. 

French Mayonahe Dressing for Sliced Tomatoes. 

The yolks of three eggs; season to taste with pepper, salt and 
mustard, add almost a cup of cream, and half a cup of vinegar; 
toil for a few minutes on a quick fire; when cold it will thicken. 

Satice Mayonaise. 

Yolks of two raw eggs, (not a particle of white, or your sauce 
will curdle,) and one and a half mustardspoonfuls of mixed mus- 
tard, beaten together, add very slowly the best salad oil, stirring 
constantly until you can reverse the dish without spilling, then add 
one tablespoonful of vinegar and cayenne and black pepper to 
taste, one-half teaspoonful of salt; stir briskly until quite light col- 
ored; serve on lettuce, lobster or fish. 

Fish or Meat Sauce. 

Mix two soft boiled eggs with half a cup of olive oil or melted 
butter, half a cup of vinegar, a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, a 
little salt and pepper, a spoonful of catsup. 

Lettuce Dressing. 

Yolks of two raw ^g^^., two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, two 



SALADS AND SAUCES. 149 

tablespoonfuls of sugar, four mustardspoonfuls of mustard, two 
saltspoonfuls of salt; mix together and beat well, boil one tin- 
ful of vinegar, and stir into_ the mixture; set the whole in a pan of 
boiling water to prevent its curdling; stir until it thickens. 

CJilll /Sauce. 

One large onion, one red pepper chopped fine together, six large 
tomatoes, one tablespoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of brown 
sugar, one teaspoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful of cloves, one 
teaspocnful of cinnamon, one nutmeg, two cups of vinegar; stir 
slowly until well boiled. 

(Jelerj ^^inegar. 

Pound one cupful of celery seed, put it into a pint bottle and 
fill with strong vinegar; shake it everyday for ten days, strain and 
keep for use. It will impart a pleasant flavor of celery to any- 
thing with which it is used. 

Curry Povxler—for Gravies, for Ducks and Other Meats — No. 1. 

Take of coriander seed three ounces, tumeric three ounces, 
black pepper, mustard and ginger, each one ounce, allspice one- 
half of an ounce, cinnamon, one-quarter of an ounce. Place them 
in a cool oven over night; next morning pound them well, then 
rub them through a fine sieve, put it into a bottle and keep stop- 
ped well. Three ounces of this steeped in a quart of vinegar for 
ten days will fully impregnate it. One teaspoonful is enough for 
any sauce. 

Curru Powder— for Ducks, Gravies and other Meats — No. 2. 

One ounce of tumeric, one ounce of white ginger, one ounce of 

nutmeg, one ounce of cayenne pepper, one ounce of cumin seed, 

one ounce of coriander seed. Pound all together and pass them 

through a sieve, bottle and cork well. One teaspoonful is sufficient 

to season any dish. 

Mock Capers. 

Take nasturtium seed when full grown, but not yellow, leaving 



150 SALADS AND SAUCES. 

on two inches of the stem; wash them, put into a jar and cover 
with cold vinegar. They will be ready for use in a week. 

3£int Sauce — iVo. 1. 

Take a bunch of spear-mint, wash entirely free from grit, chop 
fine and mix well with eight tablespoonfuls of vinegar and one- 
fourth of a pound of sugar. Serve with roast lamb in a sauce 
boat. 

Mint Sauce — iVo. 2. 

Two tablespoonfuls of green mint chopped fine, one tablespoon- 
ful of powdered sugar, half a teacupful of vinegar; chop the 
mint, put the sugar and vinegar in the sauce boat and stir in the 
mint; let it stand in a cool place fifteen minutes before sending to 
the table. 

Lemon Sauce. 

One small cup of sugar, not quite half a cup of butter, one 
Q^gi one lemon, all the juice and half the grated rind, one teaspoon- 
ful of nutmeg, three tablespoonfuls of boiling water. 

Tomato Sauce. 

Nine large tomatoes, two onions, one pepper, chopped fine, two 
tablespoonfuls of salt, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful of cinnamon, one tablespoonful of cloves, one tablespoonful of 
allspice, two cups of vinegar, one spoonful of mustard seed; boil 
one hour. 

Celery Sauce. 

Boil two heads of celery very tender; pour off the water, and 
cut the celery into pieces of an inch in length; thicken a cup of 
broth in which the fowl has been boiled, and add half a cup of 
cream or milk; season with pepper and salt. 

Oyster Sauce. 

One and a half teaspoonfuls of fiour, two ounces of butter, one 
teacupful of hot oyster liquor; mix the flour to a smooth paste 
with a little cream or milk, and stir in when it boils; add the but- 



SALADS AND SAUCES. 151 

ter by degrees and stir until well mixed; boil a minute or two, and 
add the oysters, whole, or cut in two; season with salt and pepper; 
as soon as they swell up nice and plump, serve. 

Horse-radish. 

Grate with a coarse grater, holding it over the stove; the warmth 
will prevent the stinging sensation; cover with cold vinegar, and 
keep closely corked. 

Ajijyle Sauce. 

Pare and core sour apples; stew with a little water, and keep 
closely covered. When done add a little butter. Sweeten to the 
taste, add nutmeg or any spice liked, and serve with roast goose 
and pork. 

Prepared Mustard. 

Three teaspoonfuls of good mustard, one teaspoonful of salt; 
mix smooth with a little cold vinegar; finish the mixing with boil- 
ing vinegar, and add one tablesjjoonful of sugar. Better after 

the first day. 

German 3Iustard. 

Take of the yellow, or white mustard, and black mustard, ground 
line, each one pound and a half, and a pound of sugar. Pour upon 
this mixture boiling vinegar to make it the consistency of soft 
dough; stir constantly with a paddle for half an hour, and after it 
has cooked add one ounce of powdeied cinnamon and half an 
ounce of powdered cloves, and mix thoroughly. Put in tightly 
covered bottles or jars, thinning witii the best vinegar when want- 
ed for use. 

Chicken Salad — No. 1. 

Two chickens boiled until very tender, then remove the bones 
and fat and cut into small pieces and mix with three bunches of 
chopped celery. For the dressing take two-thirds of a cup of vin- 
egar, two beaten eggs, two teaspoonfuls of mustard, salt and pep- 
per to taste, half a cup of butter (or oil, if preferred,) beat together 
and heat until it thickens, then when cold stir it lightly into the 



152 SALADS AND SAUCES. 

chicken and celery ; garnish the whole with cold boiled eggs cut 
into rings, and sprigs of bleached celery tops. Salmon salad is pre- 
pared in the same way, only less celery is required. 

Chicken /Salad — No. 2. 

Two fowls, one teacupful of sweet oil, or cream, one half ounce 
of French mustard, the yolks of ten hard-boiled eggs, half a pint 
of vinegar, one teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, eight heads of cel- 
ery, one teaspoonful of salt; boil the fowls, putting a little salt in 
the water; when cold cut the meat from the bones in small pieces, 
cut the celery fine, and mix them; mash the eggs to a paste, add 
the oil or cream, then add the vinegar, pepper and salt; mix the 
dressing with the chicken half an hour before serving. 

Chicken Salad — iVo. 3- 

Chop the white part of the chicken, after it is well boiled; four 
hard-boiled eggs, one chicken, half a teaspoonful of mustard to 
each ^gg, and one bunch of celery. Chop the whites of the eggs 
with the chicken, mash the yolks, put with the vinegar and mus- 
tard, add a little pepper and salt, then the olive oil, or butter. The 
dressing must be put in last, half an hour before serving. 

Chicken Salad — JSFo. 4. 

Boil four eggs, using only the yolks; mash smooth; add the 
yolks of the eggs, a tablespoonful of mustard, one tal)lesiioon}'ul of 
sugar, one saltspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of melted butter, 
two of vinegar; use as much celery as chicken. This is for one 
chicken. Cut the chicken and celery into small pieces; mix the 
dressing with the chicken a short time before serving. 

Chicken Salad — No. 5. 

Take a pair of chickens, boil them, saving the broth for soup. 
When cold remove all the skin and fat, disjoint them, cut the meat 
from the bones into very small pieces, (not exceeding an inch,) 
wash and split two large heads of celery and cut the white part 
into pieces also about an inch long, and having mixed the chicken 



SALADS AND SAUCES. 153 

and celery together, put them into a deep dish; cover and set 
it away. Just before the salad is to be eaten the dressing should 
be put on, which is made thus: Take the yolks of eight hard- 
boiled eggs, put them into a flat dish and mash them to a paste 
with the back of a spoon; add to the eggs one small teaspoonful 
of fine salt, a very little cayenne pepper, half a gill of made mus- 
tard, rather more than two wine glasses of sweet oil or cream, then 
add the yolk or one raw egg well beaten; mix all the ingredients 
thoroughly, stirring them a long time until they are quite smooth. 
After you put it on the chicken and celery, mix the whole well to- 
gether with a silver fork. 

Lobster Salad. 
Pick out every bit of the meat from the body and claws of a 
cold boiled lobster. Lay aside the coral for the dressing. You 
will need seven eggs boiled hard, two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, 
one teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of white sugar, quarter 
of a saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, use vinegar at discretion, rub 
the yolks to a smooth paste in a bowl until perfectly free from 
lumps, add gradually, rubbing all the while the other ingredients, 
the coral last. This should be worked well; proceed slowly and 
carefully in the ojieration of mixing the various ingredients, moist- 
ening with vinegar as they stifPen, increase the quantity of this as 
the mixture grows smooth until it is thin enough to pour over the 
minced lobster. You will need a teacupful at least; then stir long 
and well, that the meat may be thoroughly impregnated with the 
dressing. Chop one bunch of celery and mix with the lobster; a 
few minutes before serving garnish with cold boiled eggs and 
parsley. If canned lobster is used, the contents of the can must 
be turned out on a dish several hours before the dressing is added 
that the close airless smell may pass away. 

Sardine Salad. 

Mix the sardines with some hard boiled eggs chopped fine, add 
some chopped parsley, and lay over the top some sliced lemon, and 
garnish with parsley. 



154 SALADS AND SAUCES. 

Tomato Salad — No. 1. 

Twelve medium sized tomatoes peeled and sliced, four hard 
boiled eggs, one raw egg w^ell beaten, one teaspoonful of salt, half 
a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, one teaspoonful of white sugar, 
one tablespoonful of salad oil, two teaspoonfuls of made mustard, 
one teacupful of vinegar; rub the yolks to a smooth paste, adding 
by degrees the salt, pepper, sugar, mustard and oil; beat the raw 
egg to a froth and stir in, lastly the vinegar. Peel the tomatoes, 
slice them a quarter of an inch thick and set the dish on the ice 
while you are making ready the dressing; stir a large lump of ice 
rapidly in this dressing until it is cold; take it out, cover the toma- 
toes with the mixture and set back on the ice until sent to the 
table. 

Tomato Salad — No. 2. 

Peel and slice the tomatoes, put into a salad dish, make a dressing 
of the yolks of three hard boiled eggs, pepper and white sugar, 
mix mustard and a half a teacupful of vinegar. Pour the mixture 
on the salad. 

Celery Salad. 

One boiled egg., one raw egg., one tablespoonful of salad oil, 
four tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one teaspoonful of white sugar, 
one teaspoonful of pepper, one of made mustard, one saltspoonful of 
salt; prepare the dressing as for tomato salad, cut the celery into 
bits half an inch long, eat at once, before the vinegar injures the 
crispness of the vegetable. 

Cabbage Salad — No. 1. 

To one cup of vinegar, take a piece of butter as large as a black 
walnut, scald the vinegar sufficiently to melt the butter, sweeten 
to the taste, chop a small cabbage very fine, put into it a table- 
spoonful of mixed mustard, and the same quantity of celery seed; 
beat the yolks of two eggs and pour in the hot vinegar, stirring 
well all together, and eat cold. 



SALADS AND SAUCES. 155 

Cabbage Salad — Ko. 2. 

One head of finely chopped cabbage, half a pint of sour cream, 
one well beaten egg, season with sugar, salt, pepper and mustard, 
a little chopped celery or a tablespoonful of celery seed, add vin- 
egar. 

Salmon Salad. 

One and a half pounds of cold boiled or baked salmon, two 
heads of celery or white lettuce, cut the celery into small 
pieces, mince three-quarters of the salmon, and lay aside four or 
five pieces, half an uich wide and four or five niches long, cut them 
smoothly and of uniform size, prepare the dressing thus: take the 
yolks of eight hard boiled eggs, put them into a flat dish and mash 
them to a paste with the back of a spoon, add to the eggs one 
small teaspoonful of fine salt, a very little cayenne pepper, add 
four tablespoonfuls of made mustard, rather more than two wine- 
glassfuls of sweet oil or cream, then add the yolk of one raw e^g 
well beaten, mix all these ingredients thoroughly, stirring them a 
long time till they are quite smooth, lay the reserved pieces into 
the dressing for five minutes, then mix the whole well together 
with a silver fork half an hour before serving, and mix the reserved 
pieces in with the salmon, garnish with cold boiled eggs and sprigs 
of bleached celery or sliced lemon or parsley. Shred the lettuce, 
handle as little as possible, and heap in a bowl with jDOunded ice, 
this must accompany the salad, the guests may then dress to their 
liking. Yovi can omit the celery and mix the lettuce with the fish 
if it is to be eaten immediately. 

Potato Salad. 

Boil potatoes till fine and tender enough to slice very thin, with 
two or three unions, cut fine and mix well through them; just be- 
fore serving pour over the following dressing: To one pint of vin- 
egar take the yolks of twelve eggs, eight will do, pour the boiling 
vinegar over them, stir briskly, return to the stove, let it boil 
enough to cook the eggs, stirring all the time; add about one ta- 



15G SALADS AND SAUCES. 

blespoonful of sugar, three or four tablespoonfuls of mixed mus- 
tard, as much oil as suits the taste, or a tablespoonful of melted 
butter, a little salt. Garnish with parsley leaves. 
Celery Slaio — No. 1. 

Chop two bunches of celery, half a head of cabbage for the 
dressing, take the yolks of four eggs, vinegar, salt and pepper, one 
teaspoonful of sugar, butter the size of an Q^g,., two teaspoonfuls 
of mustard, boil until thick, when cold add two tablespoonfuls of 
thick cream, one tablespoonful of oil. 

Celery /Slmo — JVo. 2- 

Take one head of cabbage, cut on the slaw cutter or with a 
knife fine, three bunches of celery and one large sweet pepper, 
chop celery and pepper fine, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, a salt- 
spoonful of salt, and pepper to taste; mix all together, heat a cup 
of vinegar and pour over it. 

Asjycariffus Salad. 

After having scraped and washed the asparagus, Ijreak in pieces 
two inches long, boil in just a little water, keep covered close and 
watch carefully; when almost done boil down to half a cup, season 
with salt and pepper, one small tablespoonful of vinegar if very 
sharp, a lump of butter the size of a walnut; boil down vnitil al- 
most dry, remove from the stove and mix through it four hard 
boiled eggs chopped fine, and garnish with sliced hard boiled eggs. 

ChicTcen /Salad. 

Two large fowls boiled, take the skin and fat off and chop it^up 
fine, one and a half dozen eggs, rub up the yolks into a batter and 
chop the whites, half a pint of butter, half a pint of vinegar, one gill 
of mixed mustard, and one small teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, 
about one-third as much celery as chicken, chop the celery into 
pieces half an inch long. 

/Salad Dressing. 

One egg, two-thirds of a cup of sweet milk or cream, half a 



SALADS AND SAUCES. 



157 



teaspoonful of salt, a little mustard and sugar to taste; let come 
to a boil and while hot stir in vinegar to taste; when quite cold 
pour over cabbage. 

S'weet-Jiread Salad. 

One and a half pounds of sweet-breads, one and one-half pounds 
of celery; wash the sweet-breads and put into strong salt water 
for one hour, then boil in fresh water until tender; when cold 
crumble them. 

Dressing for Them. — Yolks of five or six eggs, well beaten, 
one large tablespoonfulof butter, one teaspoonful of salt, one tea- 
spoonful of sugar, one teas])oonful of dry mustard, a saltspoonful 
of red pepper, one-half a cupful of vinegar; mix well together 
and stir over the fire till thick as paste. Put into a bowl, and 
when cold put on ice; mix with a cupful of sweet cream; chop 
celery fine and mix. 







l^ 'ii'J^'^iti':'i:i'^±^'ii^^i^ ^^ ^'ii>Ji'Ji'^l^^i:^'^^i^^i^'^^^^ 



OMELET. 

Omelet— No. 1. 

The great merit of any omelet is tliat it should not be greasy, 
burnt or overdone. The omelet should be thick, have a full, rich, 
moist flavor, and should be fried in a small pan with good butter. 
Take six eggs, separate the whites from the yolks, add a little salt 
and pepper to the yolks, then whip the whites to a stiff froth, put 
a large spoonful of butter into the hot pan, and while it is melting 
mix with the yolks two tablespoonfuls of good cream or half a cup 
of milk, then stir in the whites and pour into the pan; shake it in 
the pan until the eggs begin to set; then with a broad-bladed 
knife raise the omelet in the pan to let the butter all over the bot- 
tom of the pan, and set it in a hot oven to brown. Have a hot 
dish, lay it upside down on the pan, and turn it upside down on 
the dish. It must be eaten as soon as done. It may be flavored 
with oysters or chopped boiled ham. 

Omelet— No. 2. 

Three eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, half a cup of 
milk, one tablespoonful of flour, one half a tablespoonful of butter. 
Divide the milk, stirring the flour in one half, the butter in the 
other, placing the butter where it will warm. When the pan is 
hot, butter it, and mix all together, adding the whites last. Pour 
into the pan, fold wheii brown, cover when cooking, and season 
with pepper and salt to the taste when cooked. Serve when done. 

Omelet — No. 3. 

Six eggs, one cup of milk, salt and pepper to the taste, butter the 



OMELETS. 159 



size of a hickory nut, melted, one teaspoonlul of baking- powder; 
beat the eggs separately, mix all together, and add the whites last, 
butter your pan and have it warm, but not hot enough to scorch, 
bake in a moderate oven. Test your oven with a teaspoonful of 
flour, if it browns nicely it is right. 

Omelet — No. 4. 
Six eggs, one cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of flour, half 
a teaspoonful of salt; beat the whites and yolks separately, mix 
the flour, milk and salt, add the yolks, beat a little and add the 
whites. Have your skillet hot and well buttered, pour in and l>ake 
in a quick oven. 

Oyster Omelet. 

Twelve oysters if large, double the number if small ones, six 
eggs, one cup of milk, one tablespoonful of butter, salt and pep- 
per; chop the oysters very line, beat the yolks and whites separ- 
ately, the whites until it stands in a heap; put three tablespoonfuls 
of butter into a frying pan, and heat while you are mixing the om- 
elet, stir the milk into a deep dish with the yolks and season, put 
in the chopped oysters, Ijeating vigorously as you add them grad- 
ually; when they are thoroughly mixed, pour in a spoonful of 
melted butter, finely whip in the whites lightly and with as few 
strokes as possible; if the butter is hot, and it should be so, that 
the omelet may not stand uncooked, put the mixture into the pan; 
do not stir it, but when it begins to set slip a broad-bladed, round- 
pointed dinner knife around the sides and cautiously under the 
omelet, that the butter may reach every part, as soon as the center 
is fairly set turn out into a hot dish and serve. 
Cheese Omelet — No. 1. 

Put a small piece of butter into a frying pan, lay over the pan 
thin slices of cheese, set into the oven to heat, beat six eggs sep- 
arately, add a teaspoonful of baking powder to a tablespoonful of 
flour, mix smooth with half a cup of milk, add to the yolks, season 
with salt and pepper, then stir in the well-beaten whites, pour over 
the cheese, cover and bake until done, then serve. 



160 OMELETS. 



Cheese Omelet — No. 2. 

Butter a deep dish, cover the bottom with thin slices of cheese, 
place upon them slices of bread nicely browned and buttered, 
sprinkle over a little red pepper and mustard, then another layer 
of cheese, beat the yolk of an egg in a cup of cream and pour over 
it; place it immediately into the oven, and bake until nicely 
browned. Serve hot or it will be tough. 

Cheese Omelet — No. 3. 

Butter a deep dish, cover the bottom with thin slices of cheese; 
place upon them bread toasted a nice brown, a little red pepper 
and mustard, then another layer of cheese; beat the yolk of an 
Qgg into a cup of cream and pour over it. Place it immediately in 
the oven and bake until nicely browned. Serve hot, or it will be 
tough. 

Boiled Omelet. 

Set a pint of milk on to boil, beat up six eggs; when the milk 
comes to the boil, put in the eggs and continue stirring until it 
thickens; add salt and pepper to taste, and serve when done. 

Bengal Omelet. 

Take half a dozen fresh eggs, beat the whites and yolks well to- 
gether, chop a half a dozen j'oung onions fine, mix all together and 
fry after the form of a jaancake. 

Green Corn Omelet. 

Boil one dozen ears of sweet corn, cut from the cob. Beat to- 
gether five eggs; mix with the corn and season with pepper and 
salt; make into small cakes. Dip into the beaten yolk of an egg., 
and then into bread crumbs; add a teaspoonful of flour to the 
bread crumbs and season them with a little salt and pepper. Fry 
])rown. 

Tomato Omelet. 

Scald your tomatoes and peel; season with salt and pepper, and 
a little butter and sugar. When nearly done, beat up six eggs, 



OMELETS. 161 



stir into one quart of tomatoes, and continue stirring until it thick- 
ens; lift it on the dish you intend serving in, season some bread 
crumbs, add a little butter to them, sprinkle over the omelet and 
brown in a quick oven. 

Poached Eggs. 

Have a pan of boiling water, with a little salt. Break the eggs 
separately into a saucer and slip gently into the water. Let 
them remain until the white is set, then put the pan on the fire; 
when the water boils up the eggs are sufficiently cooked. Remove 
with a skimmer; trim neatly; pour a little melted butter over and 
sprinkle with pepper. 

Boiled Eggs. 

Drop them into boiling water, and if liked soft boil them three 
minutes; if you wish them sufficiently hard to cut in slices, they 
should boil five minutes. 

Scratnbled Eggs. 

Heat the skillet and put in a little butter; break the eggs into a 
dish, season with pepper and salt; beat up just enough to be 
smooth, then pour into the buttered skillet, and keep stirring with, 
a knife until it thickens. 

Shirred Eggs. 

Butter a dish and break into it a number of eggs, taking care- 
that they do not encroach upon each other enough to break the 
yolks; sprinkle pepper and salt over them, put a small piece of 
butter upon each, and add a tablespoonful of cream for each e^^. 
Bake in a hot oven until the whites are set. 

Breaded Eggs. 

Boil the eggs hard, and cut in round, thick slices; pepper and 
salt; dip each in a beaten raw Qg,^., then in fine bread crumbs or 
powdered cracker, and fry in butter hissing hot. Drain ofE every 
drop of grease and serve on a hot dish for breakfast. 

Eggs witJi ChecM. 

Put a small piece of butter in a skillet; lay thin slices of cheese 
11 



1G3 OMELETS. 



over the pan; when the cheese is tender, break eggs over it, then 
season with a little salt and pepper. When done lift them out 
carefully, put on a hot dish and garnish with parsley. 

Stuffed Eggs. 

Boil the eggs hard, remove the shells, and cut in two. Remove 
the yolks and mix with them salt, pepper and a little dry mustard, 
add cold ham, chicken or tongue chopped very fine and then fill 
the cavities; smooth them and put the halves together; dip into 
l)eaten raw egg., then in fine bread crumbs or powdered cracker 
crumbs and fry in hot butter; drain off the grease and serve hot; ^^ 

garnish Avith parsley. For "picnics they are nicer not browned. 
Wrap in white tissue paper. 




SHELL FISH. 

Opening an Oyster. 

An experienced oysterman opens oysters without getting- a par- 
ticle of shell or dirt among them. Some experts can open the lar- 
gest oyster with the blade of a penknife. The scientific way of 
doing this is to insert the edge of the blade in exactly the right 
part of the joint which connects the two halves of the shell. In 
selecting oysters choose those which have the shell firmly closed; 
if open they are unfit for use. When opened carefully remove all 
bits of shell. The small shelled oysters have the richest flavor. 
In selecting canned oysters beware of those which have the sides 
of the can swollen. In dressing oysters season with salt and but- 
ter when done to prevent shriveling, and serve at once. 

Boiled Oysters. 

The oyster requires but little time in the boiling liquor in which 
it is stewed. When the oyster liquor comes to a boil add a little 
cracker dust or flour to thicken it slightly and prevent it from 
being too soupish in its consistency. When the liquid boils brisk- 
ly it is time to put the oysters in and stew them gently. Watch 
them closely; the moment their edges begin to curl a little add 
fresh cream or milk, and season with butter, salt and pepper. Con- 
tinue the influence of the heat for a half a minute, then add your 
broken crackers and serve. 

Fried Oysters. 

To a bowl of crackers rolled fine, add one tablespoonf ul of flour; 
season with salt and pepper. Drain the oysters in a colander, omit 



164 SHELL FISH. 



the old way of drying them, and dip in yolks of eggs, then in the 
cracker dust, and fry in equal quantities of butter and lard. This 
is sufficient for five dozen oysters. 

Roasted or' Haked Oysters. 

Clean the shells nicely, and lay them in a dripping pan, set in a 

hot oven with the rounded side of the shell downward. This will 

hold the juice, which will otherwise run out and leave the oyster 

dry. As soon as they open take them out, remove one shell, turn 

a little melted butter on each; serve hot, allowing guests to salt 

and pepper to taste. If liked, dilute a little lemon juice and put 

a little on each. 

Broiled Oysters. 

Prepare a cup of crackers rolled fine, add one teaspoonful of 
flour, season with salt and pepper, mix well together. Select large 
oysters, drain the oysters in a colander, dip in egg., then in cracker 
dust, and broil on a fine folding wire broiler, well greased, turning 
frequently to keep the juice from wasting. Serve immediately in 
a hot dish, with a little drawn butter poured over them. 

Oysters Baked in the Shell. 

Wash the shells perfectly clean and wipe dry. Put into a bak- 
ing pan, round shell down, and set into a very hot oven for three 
or four minutes or until you can remove the upper shell. Put two 
or three oysters into each round shell, sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per, add a small piece of butter, sift over a little cracker dust, and 
return to the oven to brown. 

Pickled Oysters. 

Take one hundred oysters, fresh from the shell, scald them in 
their own liquor; if not enough to keep them irom burning add a 
very little water. Then take the oysters and lay them on a platter 
to cool ; strain the liquor through a muslin cloth, add to it a pint 
of the best white wine vinegar, one medium sized onion, chopped 
very fine, one ounce of pepper, the whole kernels, and half an 



SHELL FISH. 165 



ounce of allspice, whole also, and half a teaspoonful of salt. Let 
these boil for five minutes. When cold strain it and pour over the 
oysters. Keep the sauce-pan covered while boiling the vinegar 
and spices to prevent evaporation. Cover the jar or bottles in 
which you put the oysters. These will keep for several weeks if 
put in a cool place. 

Ouster Fricasse. 

Take no less than six oysters for every person — good box oysters; 
strain the liquid into a porcelain-lined sauce pan, add a large cup 
of strong beef broth, a piece of butter the size of an ^^^^ rolled in 
flour, season with celery salt, and beat the yolks of three eggs (for 
about thirty oysters). Let all this boil nicely and smooth, then add 
the oysters; they must not boil, but get heated through well. 
Serve as soon as prepared. While you prepare the dressing have 
your oysters in a colander over a pot of boiling water to heat them 
gradually. 

Rau:) Oysters. 

Drain, and sprinkle with salt and pepper, and place on a dish on 
ice. Take a square block of ice, make a cavity in the centre with 
a flat-iron. When ready to serve drain the oysters and place them 
in the cavity of the ice, and lay sliced lemons around the edge. 
Place the ice on a platter and serve with Chili sauce, lemon, salt, 
pepper and vinegar; or, if you prefer less trouble, drain well in a 
colander, season with salt and pepper, and place on a plate; set on 
ice or in a cool place. Drain and serve with horse-radish, lemon, 
pickles and crackers. 

Scolloped Oysters — JSfo. 1. 

One layer of oysters, lay over them bits of butter, pepper and 
salt, and broken crackers, repeating until the dish is full, and fin- 
ishing with crackers covered with bits of butter seasoned with pep- 
per and salt; pour over the oyster liquor, heated. Bake half an 
hour. It must be a nice brown when done. 

Scolloped Oysters — N'o. 2. 
Three pints of bread crumbs, three eggs mixed with crumbs, 



166 SHELL FISH. 



one quart of oysters; season with salt and pepper; put a layer of 
oysters and a layer of crumbs until the dish is full, and bake one 
hour. This makes a large dish. 

Oyster Croquetts. 
Half a cup of rice, one pint of oyster liquor, three eggs, one ta- 
blespoonful of melted butter, a saltspoonful of salt; remove the 
hard part from the oysters and chop them in small pieces; soak the 
rice three hours in the oyster liquor, warmed; if not enough to 
cover, add a little milk, then set on the stove and boil in the oyster 
liquor until tender and almost dry ; then add the butter and salt 
and oysters and cook until the oysters are done. Whisk the eggs 
to a froth and cautiously take the sauce-pan from the fire, while 
you whip them into the mixture; return to the stove and stir while 
they thicken, allowing them to boil; remove from the stove and 
turn out upon a well greased dish to cool; when cold, flour your 
hands and roll into oval or pear-shaped balls, dip in beaten eggs, 
then in fine cracker crumbs and fry in butter and lard mixed. 
Some make them of mashed potatoes and oysters. 

To Magout Oysters. 

Open four dozen of large oysters, save the liquor, make a thick 
batter of cream, the yolks of eggs and parsley chopped fine. Dip 
the oysters into the batter and then loU them in bread crumbs, 
fry a light brown; when fried take them up and lay on a drainer; 
empty your pan and dust some flour all over it, put in two ounces 
of butter; when it is melted and thick stir in, add two ounces of 
pistache nuts shelled; let them boil, then beat the yolks of two 
eggs in half a pint of cream, and stir all together until it is done. 
Lay the oysters in the dish and pour the ragout over them. Gar- 
nish the dish with sliced Florida oranges. 

Marhled Oysters. 

Two pounds of veal, four dozen oysters, one small box of Cox's 
gelatine; let soak twenty minutes in cold water, stew the veal in 
the oyster liquor, add a little salt, \\^hen tender and almost done 



SHELL FISH. 167 



add the oysters. When the oysters are done take them and the 
veal out and set away to cool; strain the oyster liquor, add a little 
butter, set on the stove, when it boils pour over the gelatine and 
stir well. Wet your mould or dish with cold water, lay a layer of 
sliced hard-boiled eggs, then a layer of veal chopped fine, season 
with pepper and salt, a layer of chopped oysters, the hard part 
taken out, season with pepper and salt alternately vmtil the dish is 
full. Pour over the gelatine and set away until firm; turn out and 
garnish with parsley or celery tops. 

Spiced Oysters. 

One hundred and seventy-five large oysters, lay them in a deep 
dish, strain the liquor on them, add salt to taste, let simmer until 
heated through. Take them out, leave the liquor on, add to it one 
pint of vinegar, three dozen cloves, three dozen allspice, let it 
come to a boil; when the oysters are cold pour the liquor over 
them. 

Oyster Sauce. 

Boil the oysters in their liquor a few minutes. As soon as the 
edge of the oysters curl take them out, thicken with a little butter 
and flour well mixed, season with pepper and salt and add half a 
cupful of cream. Boil three or four minutes, add the oysters and 
serve. 

Oyster Omelet. 

Beat six eggs light, separately, add to the yolks half a cupful of 
milk, a little salt, a tablespoonful of flour and a teaspoonful of 
baking" powder; chop a dozen large oysters fine, removing the hard 
part, add to the yolks, beating vigorously; then add the beaten 
whites lightly. Pour into a pan that has been previously heated, 
add a little butter, set in the oven of the stove to l^ake. 

French Oyster Stei'\ 

One quart of oysters; put the liquor on the stove, let it boil ; 
skim, and season with butter, pepper and salt; mix a small table- 
spoonful of flour with two tablespoonfuls of butter; stir in, and add 



1G8 SHELL FISH, 



the juice of a lemon sweetened to taste, one teaspoonful of whole 
allspice, half a teaspoonful of whole cloves, the yolks of two hard- 
boiled eggs rubbed smooth with a little butter; boil five minutes, 
then add the oysters and the crackers. When done serve. 

Oyster /Steic. 

Take one quart of oysters, put the liquor from the oysters on the 
stove, season with salt and pepper; mix a small tablespoonful of 
flour with two of butter and add to the liijuor; when it comes to 
the boil add half a cup of good cream; boil a few minutes, then 
add the oysters; when done add the crackers and serve. 

Oyster Powder. 

Take fresh oysters and beard them and place them in a vessel 
over the fire for a few moments to extract the juice, then put them 
out to cool and chop them very fine with pounded biscuit and 
finely pulverized lemon peel and mace; pound them until they be- 
come a paste ; make them up into thin cakes, and place them on a 
sheet of paper in a slow oven. Let them bake until they become 
quite hard, pound them as soon as done into powder, and place 
in a dry tin box; keep in a dry place, and when oysters are out of 
season use to flavor with. 

Oyster Pie. 

Two quarts of oysters, one dozen hard-boiled eggs; first a layer 
of warm oysters, season with a little salt, pepper and butter, then 
a layer of chopped eggs, butter, salt and pepper; sprinkle over a 
handful of flour and a layer of broken crackers, alternating until 
the oysters are used; reduce the oyster liquor to a pint, pour over 
warm, and cover the top and down the sides with pufi" paste ; bake 
half an hour. This makes a large dish for company. 

Oyster Patties. 

Roll out some pug paste thin and cut it neatly into shapes either 
square or circular. Bake each separately in tin pans, cutting a 
round hole in the centre of each upper crust; fill with oysters and 



SHELL FISH. 169 



hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, and season with salt, pepper and a 
little butter. 

Oyster Pot-pie. 

Bake nice light biscuit; boil the oysters as for stew; cut the 
biscuit in two, fill with oysters, lay the top on, lay the biscuit on 
a large plate and pour the stew over them. Serve as soon as pre- 
pared. 

Oysters vith Toast. 

Toast a nice light brown, boil the oysters as for stew, and lay in 
a shallow dish; pour the liquor over hot; lay the oysters on the 
toast and garnish with hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. 

/Steamed Oysters. 

Select nice large oysters, drain and put into a pan and place in 
a steamer over boiling water; cover and steam until the oys- 
ters are plump, then place them on a warm dish; season with salt 
and pepper and pour over drawn butter; garnish with sliced lemon 
or hard-boiled eggs. 

. Oysters and Macaroni. 

Boil the macaroni in the oyster liquor, add a little butter and 
salt; when tender lay a layer of macaroni in a dish, then a layer of 
oysters; season with butter and a little salt and pepper; a layer of 
hard-boiled eggs chopped fine; alternate until the dish is full; if 
any of the oyster liquor remains, pour it over; if not, pour over 
a little milk, warmed. Cover the top with bread crumbs or cracker 
dust; salt pieces of butter. 

Border Oysters. 

Take six potatoes, three eggs, one tablespoonful of butter, one 
teaspoonful of salt, half a cup of boiling milk. Pare, boil and 
mash the potatoes; when fine and light, add the butter, salt and 
pepper and two well beaten eggs. Butter the border mould and 
pack the potato into it. Let this stand on the kitchen table ten 
minutes, then turn out on a dish and brush over with one well 
beaten Qg;g. Brown in the oven, and when done fill the centre 
with an oyster stew. 



170 SHELL FISH. 



Clam Stew. 

Select hard-shell clams, wash and put in a pot, with water 
enough to prevent their burning; steam until the shells open; 
take out and warm them up with the clam broth; when they come 
to the boil add a cup of milk, a little butter, pepper and salt; 
thicken with a little cracker dust. 

Fried Clams. 

Free from the shell large soft-shell clams, dry them in a nap- 
kin; dip them in beaten egg, then in cracker crumbs; fry in butter 
and lard mixed. Fry longer than oysters. Long clams, if large, 
are nice taken from the shells and broiled. 

Clam Fritters. 

One dozen clams minced, one pint of milk, four eggs, liquor of 
the clams, salt and pepper, add flour enough to make a thin batter. 
Fry in hot lard quickly. Beat the eggs separately and add the 
whites last. 

Clam Pie. 

Take three pints of clams; if large chop them, put in a sauce- 
pan and boil in their own liquor, adding a little water if necessary; 
add to the liquor half a teaspoonful of whole allspice and half a 
dozen whole cloves. Boil four or live medium sized potatoes; 
when done cut in thin slices; set a small cup in the centre of the 
pudding dish to keep the top crust raised; put in first a layer of 
clams, then a layer of hard-boiled eggs chopped fine; season with 
a little butter, pepper and salt, then sprinkle over a little flour, 
then a layer of sliced potatoes, alternating until the dish is filled; 
there should be the same quantity of liquor as for oyster pie; 
either hard or soft-shell clams can be used. Cover with a nice pie 
crust half way down the sides. 

Clam Chopxier. 

Take forty clams, whole or chopped; fry three slices of ham; 
take them out, and put in the pork fat a layer of the clams, then a 



SHELL FISH. 171 



layer of the ham cut in small slices, and a layer of broken crackers; 
season with salt and pepper and spices to your taste; alternate un- 
til the clams are all in. Cover with clam liquor; if not sufficient, 
add a little water; pour the liquor over warm. Boil twenty min- 
utes, or until the clams are done. When you lift the clams thicken 
the liquor with a little flour mixed smooth in a little water; add a 
little butter if you wish it very rich, a tablespoonful of catsup, or 
a half glass of white wine, or a little lemon juice. Any kind of 
fish can be used for chowder; bass is the best. Garnish with sliced 
lemon. 

Lobster Patties. 

Make some puff paste and bake in deep patty pans. Cut the 
meat of cold boiled lobster into dice ; heat a pint of lobster in a 
cup of cream, add the yolks of thtee hard-boiled eggs, season with 
salt and pepper, fill the patties, sprinkle over cracker crumbs, and 
lay on each bits of butter. Set in the oven to brown. 

foiled Lobster. 

Tie the claws, put in a kettle and just cover it with cold water; 
cover the kettle and set it on a hot stove. A lobster suffers less 
l)y being put in cold than in boiling water, and the flesh is firmer 
when done. In putting it in boiling water it is killed by the 
heat; in cold water it is dead as soon as the water gets warm. It 
takes from fifteen to twenty-five minutes boiling, according to the 
size of the lobster. When boiled take it from the kettle, break it 
in two and place it in a colander to let the water drain; remove as 
soon as it is split, the vein found immediately under the shell and 
all along the flesh of the lobster. The stomach is found near the 
head; remove it and throw away; all the rest, including the liver, 
is good. 

Lobster Croquetts. 

To the meat of a well boiled lobster chopped fine add pepper and 
salt; mix with this one-quarter as much bread crumbs, well rubbed 
and seasoned with salt, pepper and a little butter; moisten with a 
tablespoonful of cream; make into ovates or pointed balls, roll in 



172 SHELL FISH. 



beaten egg and cracker dust, and fry in butter and lard mixed. 
Serve dry and hot. Garnish with parsley. 

Lobster Cutlets. 
Cut the meat of a cold boiled lobster into dice and mix the lob- 
ster fat with it. Add three-quarters of a cupful of mushrooms cut 
into dice, season with celery, salt, a little cayenne pepper. Put a 
piece of butter half the size of an %^^ into the sauce-pan, and when 
it bubbles stir in a tablespoonful of flour. Let the flour cook a 
little, then add a cupful of cream and some finely minced parsley; 
stir until the sauce thickens, then add the other ingredients and 
stir well until they become scalding hot. Remove from the fire 
and stir in the well beaten yolks of three eggs. Spread this mix- 
ture an inch thick upon a buttered dish and set it upon ice to be- 
come chilled. Then cut it into small parallelograms and roll in 
beaten eggs and cracker crumbs. Fry in boiling lard the same as 

fritters. 

Deviled Lobster. 

Extract the meat from a boiled lobster and mince it fine; season 
with half a teaspoonful of made mustard, celery, salt and pepper, 
and sprinkle over a little curry powder; stir until well mixed, 
then put it into a porcelain sauce-pan covered with just enough 
water to keep it from burning; let it boil up once and stir in a ta- 
blespoonful of lemon juice or two tablespoonfuls of vinegar and a 
tablespoonful of butter; let it boil up once, and serve. Garnish 

with sliced lemon. 

Crabs. 

In purchasing crabs give the preference to those which have a 
rough shell and claws, and bright color. The male is considered 
preferable. If a cooked crab held by its claws and shaken is found 
to rattle as if it contained water, it is of an inferior kind. To boil 
crabs put them into the water alive; let them boil twenty minutes; 
wipe, and crack the claws, and serve the same as lobster. 

To cook soft-shell crabs remove the claws, cut open and take 
away the sand-bag and spongy part, then fry them brown in lard 



SHELL FISH. 173 



and butter mixed and salted. Crabs will not keep over night; the 
shell hardens in twenty four hours. 

Scallops. 

Scallops in the shell must be boiled, and the hearts taken out — 
the heart is all that is used. You can purchase them in the mar- 
kets ready for use. Dip them in beaten egg, then in cracker 
crumbs, and fry in butter and lard mixed, or stew the same as oys- 
ters. 

Shrimps. 

Shrimps are the smallest of all fish belonging to the lobster spe- 
cies. Pull off the head and squeeze the body out of the shell by 
pressing it between the forefinger and thumb. They are generally 
used as sauce for boiled fish, squeezed out of the shell and stirred 
into drawn butter. They can be boiled the same as oysters. 

Deviled Crabs. 

One cup of crab meat picked from shells of well boiled crabs, 
two tablespoonfuls of rolled crackers, yolks of three hard-boiled 
eggs chopped fine, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, half a teaspoon- 
ful of made mustard, pepper and salt, two tablespoonfuls of drawn 
butter. Mix the cracker crumbs with the chopped crab meat, yolks, 
seasoning, and drawn butter; fill scallop shells or small pattypans 
with the mixture, sprinkle cracker crumbs over the top, lay over 
bits of butter; brown in a quick oven; serve in the shells. 





(MMM 



ZXXXZXXXJ IXEX 



tfliTrrfririTllfT t'TiirT i tii' i i i i V TTiriT'r r 




J^maz9 



FISH. 



In selecting fish observe the following: If fresh, the eyes will 
be full, the gills red and the flesh firm; but when the eyes are 
sunken and the flesh flabby, they are stale. Fish should be thor- 
oughly cleansed when first procured, and washed in just enough 
water to cleanse them, for if too much water is used the flavor 
will be diminished, sprinkle salt in the inside and if they are to be 
broiled add a little pepper. Keep them in a cool place until you wish 
to cook them. Most fish are best broiled or fried the day after 
they are caught. Fresh water fish are apt to have an earthy taste, 
which may be removed by soaking them in a solution of salt water 
after they are cleansed. Most kinds of salt fish should be soaked 
in cold water six or twelve hours before cooking them. In soak- 
ing fish place them with the flat side down. 

Turhot. 

Take a fine large white fish or three pounds of halibut, steam 
until tender, take out the bones, sprinkle with pepper and salt. 
For the dressing, heat a quart of milk, thicken with a quarter of a 
pound of flour; when cool, add two eggs and a quarter of a pound 
of butter; put into a baking-dish a layer of fish, then of sauce, 
until full, season with parsley or thyme, cover the top with bread 
crumbs; bake half an hour, garnish with sliced lemon and sprigs 
of parsley. 

Baked Fish. 

Clean, rinse and wipe dry fish of any kind weighing three pounds 
or more, rub the fish inside and outside with salt, fill with a stuff- 



FISH. 1 75 

ing made like that for fowls, only not quite as moist, and seasoned 
highly with pepper and salt; sew it up and roll in flour, lay in a 
hot pan and put bits of butter over it and a little water into the 
pan; bake an hour and a half, basting occasionally, garnish with 
sliced lemon and celery tops. If it boils down add a little more 
hot water. 

Baked Shad. 

Open and clean the fish, cut ofE the head, cut out the backbone 
from the head to within two inches of the tail, and fill with the fol- 
lowing stuffing: take the soft part of good light bread, not the 
crust, and do not wet it as is usually done, but rub it dry and fine, 
and work into it a piece of butter the size of an Qgg, season with 
salt, pepper and parsley, and 'moisten with one tablespoonful of 
cream, some good cooks use eggs, but they will make the filling 
too heavy; if you prefer eggs, boil them hard, chop fine and add; 
sew it up or wind tape several times around the fish, and then flour 
well and lay in a pan on muffin rings to prevent it from scorching 
when baking; lay bits of butter over the top, and keep water 
enough in the pan to keep from burning, baste occasionally; bake 
an hour and a half, serve with fish sauce. 
Fried Mackerel. 

Clean and split across from the back, scrape all the thin black 
skin from the inside. Wipe dry, roll in flour and lay in hot lard, 
in a thick skillet, skin side up; when a nice brown turn and fry the 
other side and serve. 

Broiled Mackerel. 

Clean and split across from the back, scrape all the thin black 
skin from the inside, wipe dry and lay on the gridiron, skin side up, 
broil a nice brown, then turn and brown the other side. It will 
broil sooner on the side the skin is. If fresh, season with salt and 
pepper when you turn it. Rub the skin with butter before turning. 

Fried Eels. 

Clean and skin them, cut them into pieces about three inches 
long, season with salt, roll in flour, fry a nice brown and serve. 



176 FISH. 

Fried Catfish. 

Cut off the heads, skin them, dip in the beaten whites of eggs, 
then in cracker dust or flour, place in a thick-bottomed skillet in 
hot lard, season with salt and pepper. Fry a nice brown. Dipping 
in egg, then cracker dust, prevents them from taking up any lard. 

To Fry Trout. 

Clean and dress them, soak in salt water a few minutes to re- 
move the earthy taste they are apt to have, dry them, and beat the 
whites of four eggs; dip in the eggs, then in cracker dust, season 
with salt and pepper and fry a nice brown in butter and lard mix- 
ed. Serve when done and garnish with parsley. 

/Speckled or JDrook Trout, and I^ake Trout 

Clean and dress them, soak in salt water a few minutes, season 
with salt, place on ice for a short time, dry them, roll in flour and 
fry in butter and lard mixed, a nice brown. Garnish with hard- 
boiled eggs sliced. Another way is to roll in flour, brush with the 
beaten whites of eggs, and dip in cracker crumbs, fry a nice brown. 
This way they will absorb no grease. 

Fried Shad. 

Cut the shad across into rather large pieces, and if the flesh is 
very thick split such pieces through the middle, roll in flour, season 
with salt and pepper, and fry in hot lard. Turn the fish when a 
nice brown. The roe should also be seasoned nicely and fried; fry 
over a moderate fire in butter and lard mixed; all butter gives 
them a dingy appearance. 

Baked White Fish. 

As they are a rich fish they are l)etter baked; dress them, cut 
them in pieces, sprinkle with a little salt inside and lay them on a 
plate; set on ice over night, dry them, roll in flour, lay in a drip- 
ping pan, set in the oven of the stove to bake. Pour off the oil 
that cooks out from time to time. 



FISH. 177 

Juried Halibut. 

Cut in slices an inch thick, sprinkle with salt, roll in flour, fry in 
hot lard and butter mixed, a nice brown; then turn and fry the 
other side the same. 

/Soused JIackerel. 

"Wash and clean three mackerel, divide them down the back, and 
once across, making four pieces of each fish; boil them, take them 
out of the water and take of it about half enough to cover them, 
and an equal quantity of vinegar; let it come to the boiling point, 
and when the fish are all in the jar, pour it over boiling hot. Lay 
a layer of fish in the jar, and sprinkle over each layer one tespoon- 
ful of whole allspice, half a teaspoonful of whole cloves, three or 
fovir pepper corns, repeating until done. Serve cold with hard- 
boiled eggs sliced over them, and garnish with parsley. They will 
l)e ready to serve in three days. 

Boiled JFiah. 

Clean, rinse and wipe tlry, and fill with a dressing of broken crack- 
ers, three hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, and season with butter,, 
salt, pepper, and thyme; moisten with one tablespoonful of ci'eam 
or milk, sew up, and wrap in a well floured cloth, and boil in salt 
water until you can draw out one of the fins easily. From eight to. 
ten minutes to the pound is the time allowed for fish to boil, but 
fish will boil in half an hour, and some in less time. Put the fish 
in cold water to boil; if hot water is used, the outside of the fish 
will be tender and break to pieces before the inside is sufficiently 
cooked. If you lay one fish on another on the platter you serve 
on, the steam from the under ones will inake the upper ones so soft 
that they will break when served. Serve as soon as boiled ; gar- 
nish with parsley, lemon, or hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. 

Boiled Codfish. 

Salt codfish should be soaked over night in lukewarm water; 

when tender take it out and put it in cool water, and scrape off the 

skin; then put it in a pan of cold water and set it where it will 
12 



17 S FISH.. ' 

simmer three hours. If it boils it will be hard. Serve with drawn 
butter, sliced lemons, or hard-boiled eggs sliced. 

Jj roiled Cod-fish. 

Soak sufficiently, grease the bars of the gridiron, broil and serve 
with drawn butter and hard-boiled eggs sliced on it. 

Codfish Balls. 

Take a piece of fish of sufficient size for your family, and let it 
soak over night in lukewarm water, flesh side down. In the morn- 
ing pour off this water and wash the fish clean, and scrape off the 
skin, and cook slowly in plenty of fresh water. Within half an 
hour of the time to serve, if the water is very salt, pour it off and 
add sufficient cold water to cover the fish, let it boil up once, then 
remove the fish and take out the bones, and pick the fish into small 
pieces; the bones will come out easily if the fish is done. Have 
ready potatoes boiled tender and mashed the usual vvay, mix with 
the potatoes half the quantity of codfish; while both are still hot, 
form into flat thick cakes. A couple of eggs beaten and mixed 
with the potatoes just before making into cakes improves them if 
they are to be eaten as soon as served; if they stand they become 
heavy. Fry in hot lard; butter gives fish a dingy color. 

Fried Codfish. 

Soak over night in lukewarm water, flesh side down. In the 
morning pour off this water, and wash the fish clean, scrape off the 
skin, and cook slowly in plenty of fresh water. Within half an hour 
of the time to serve, if the water is very salt, pour it off and add suf- 
ficient cold water to cover the fish; let it boil up once, then pour off 
the watex, take out the bones, break into pieces about two inches 
in length and one inch in thickness, beat three eggs very light, add- 
ing salt and pepper, dip the fish into this batter, then into cracker 
crumbs, and fry in hot lard, a nice brown; lay sliced lemon over 
and garnish with parsley. 



•FISH. 179 

Boiled Fresh Cod. 

Wrap the fish i'l a well floured cloth, and put on in boiling 
water, add a little salt, and let simmer until done, and serve with 
fish sauce. When cold it can be warmed up in a little cream, but- 
ter and parsley; heat in a vessel of boiling water; if set on the 
stove it will require careful stirring to prevent burning; it can be 
made into cakes any form you choose to serve it in. 

Boiled Salt Mackerel. 

Soak over night in cold water, flesh side down. In the morning 
pour the water off", clean, and put on in enough cold water to cover 
it, let it boil fifteen minutes; if the water is very salt pour it off 
and cover with fresh boiling water, cook fifteen minutes longer; if 
done sooner take up. Pour over it drawn butter, and lay over it 
two hard-boiled eggs sliced. 

Boiled White Fish. 

Dress the fish nicely, and cover with cold water, add salt, re- 
move the scum as it rises and cook slowly, and keep covered; 
when done dish carefully, pour over it drawn butter, garnish with 
sliced lemon and parsley sprigs. 

Broiled White Fish. 

Clean and wash your fish, then spread it on a dish, open and 
sprinkle with salt; allow it to remain thus for twenty-four hours, 
then hang it up to dry for two or three hours, then put it on a well 
greased gridiron over hot coals; put flesh side down at first, and 
when nicely browned, turn carefully on the other side. Cook for 
twenty or thirty minutes, or until nicely browned on both sides. 
Pour over drawn butter and garnish with lemons and parsley, or 
serve with fish sauce. Some good cooks just wipe dry and broil. 

Canned Salmon. 

Canned Salmon is nice served cold, with sliced lemons laid over 
and garnished with parsley. For breakfast dishes it may be heated, 



180 FISH. 

seasoned with a little salt and pepper, and served on good milk 

toast. 

Mock Fish Boiled. 

Clean your fish, wrap it in a well floured cloth, put it in a pot 
with cold water enough to cover it, boil until tender. It will re- 
quire from half an hour to an hour, according to the size of the 
fish. Serve it on a hot dish; boil two or three eggs hard, lay on 
the fish and pour over drawn butter. 

Fried >Shad. 

Clean thoroughly, cut off the head, and cut the body crosswise 
into four or five pieces, salt and let stand two or three hours, roll 
in flour and lay in a thick bottomed skillet in hot lard; fry slowly 
and turn when a nice brown; never fry in butter, it gives a bad 
color, and it looses its sweetness. The roe may be fried with or 
after the other pieces. Another way is to roll in flour, brush with 
the beaten whites of eggs, and dip in cracker crumbs, and fry a 
nice brown; this way they will absorb no grease, and are considered 
better. Serve with fish sauce or garnish. 

Sahnoji Patties. 

Cut cold cooked salmon into dice. Heat about a pint of the dice 
in half a pint of cream.and add two hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine, 
season to the taste, salt and pepper. Fill the shells, sprinkle cracker 
crumbs over the top, and lay over bits of butter, set in the 
oven to brown and serve in the shells. 



^^ 



T^?M^fi^Ti^S^ m^^', f.^ !^S^^??^ fff;^ff^fi^fAT,^!;^fA?i^f?^ 




l}->.V . ; ■ " ,,,,,,,,,l,,..IIIMt..,.fl|..lllt1l,.|Mllt.f..MM.r.|.Mril|..lMl ,,,.,.., ...... ," ^ ' 



SOUPS. 



Stock. 

Stock is the juice of the meat extracted by gentle boiling. 
The meat should l^e freshly killed, and the bones broken. The 
vegetables, spices and flavoring should not be added until 
ready for use. The meat must be put on in cold water; a quart of 
water is allowed to a pound of beef; soft water is considered best. 
Let it come slowly to the boiling point; skim well; skim the sec- 
ond time if more rises; boil gently; the fibre of the meat will 
harden in quick boiling and the flavor will escape with the steam; 
add a little pepper, and strain into a glass or stone jar; let it cool, 
and cover with a piece of gauze. Some good cooks remove the 
grease when it is cold; I prefer using it in the soup. This is stock, 
and from it all soups can be made, and will keep for several days, 
in cold weather, but the safer plan is to warm it over every morn- 
ing in warm weather, and every other day in cold weather. In fla- 
voring soups be careful to add the seasoning gradually. An over- 
dose of salt will spoil any dish of soup, and a deficiency will do the 
same. A general rule is — two tablespoonfuls of salt to a gallon of 
soup; when large quantities of vegetables are used, one table- 
spoonful and a half; when no vegetables are used, all seasonings 
can be added, but not taken out. Be particular to have the pot 
in which it is boiled perfectly clean, also the inside of the covers, 
and the rims and handles. Any other pot is preferred to metal; if 
used the soup should not be allowed to stand in it. In making 
vegetable soup, onions require the longest time to cook; three 
hours for cabbage, turnips, carrots and celery ; other delicate veg- 



183 SOUPS. 

etables only require one hour before the soup is done, some less 
time. 

Green Peas in Puree. 

There are three kinds of soups — thick soup, clear soup and pu- 
rees. Clear soup is thin and bright and requires thickening; a thick 
soup is one that has been thickened by the addition of thickening in- 
gredients. The great secret of a puree is the softness of the whole. 
To insure this creamy softness there are three distinct methods : 
Firstly, by adding, before passing through the hair sieve, some very 
fine white sifted bread crumbs; secondly, prepared flour mixed 
carefully to a smooth paste with some stock or bouillon, and third- 
ly, by the aid of good cream. A tiny pinch of fine white pow- 
dered sugar must always be added. It is a very necessary ingre- 
dient. For an artistic puree take two pints of young green peas; 
boil them in a little boiling water in a sauce-pan with a bunch of 
parsley and chives tied together; season with a little salt. When 
they are tender drain them thoroughly from all the moisture and 
then pass carefully through a fine hair sieve. Season the puree 
thus made with a little white pepper, and salt to the taste, and re- 
heat in a stew-pan with a little butter and stock in adequate pro- 
portions, having, of course, previously, as directed above, employed 
one of the three methods for thickening and softening the puree. 
Pour over buttered toast cut in small pieces. The husks of very 
young green peas will also make a puree or prove serviceable in mix- 
ing with the other, if thoroughly cooked until quite soft in boiling 
water, drained, bruised and then passed through a sieve, and sea- 
soned in the same manner. For green pea soup the husk is very 
useful, as the flavor obtained equals in every way the vegetable 
itself. 

Spanish /Stew. 

Take one large round beefsteak, cut into small pieces, four onions 
sliced thin, and two large red or green peppers also sliced thin; 
put this into a saucepan with a qviart of water, lilack pepper and 
salt. Let it cook rather slowly for two hours, then add a little 



SOUPS.. 183 

parsley and a tablespoonful of flour mixed smooth in half a cup 
of water. Cook rice in a separate sauce-pan, and serve it to be 
eaten with the gravy of the stew. Game chicWen, veal and mutton 
are also nice prepared the same way. 

Take one fat hen prepared nicely, and break the bones with a 
cleaver, put on to cook in three pints of water, let it cook slowly 
for three hours, then strain through a colander, put the soup on 
the stove again, add salt and pepper to the taste, a tablespoonful of 
sago and a teaspoonful of sugar; take a teaspoonful of allspice, 
tie in a thin cloth, and put in; cook this until the sago is done, then 
remove the allspice, and have a well beaten e^^ in your soup- 
tureen, pour the soup over the eg^^ and stir briskly. This will 
make a quart of soup only. For invalids it is unsurpassed as it is 
so nourishing. 

Ox-tail /Soup. 

Divide the tails at the points, and lay in hot water to soak, put 
into a gallon kettle two onions sliced, cloves, pepper-corns and all- 
spice, one dozen each; on this pour one gallon of water, simmer 
two hours, remove as soon as it rises, pick the meat from the bones, 
strain the soup through a sieve, return to the kettle, put a spoonful 
of brown sugar into a pan, let it brown and add a little water, a 
lump of butter the size of an egg, and stir into the soup; let this 
simmer for a few minutes, add next a wine-glass of mushroom 
catsup, simmer a few minutes, serve hot. 

Ziamh Corn Soxp. 

Take a leg of lamb, cover it with water, add a little salt, 
boil until tender, removing the scum as it rises, have ready one 
dozen ears of sweet corn, run the knife down the centre of each row 
of grains, then pass the knife over the surface of the corn so as only 
to remove one-half the grain, then scrape the cob gently so as to re- 
move the milk of the corn and leave the shell on the cob; take the 
meat out and set away to keep warm, skim the l>roth, if too salt. 



184 SOUPS. 

add more water and a lump of butter the size of a walnut; if din- 
ner is nearly ready put in the corn and boil fifteen minutes, rub a 
tablespoonful of flour with the butter; salt and pepper to taste. 

Clam Soup — iVo. 1. 

Open one dozen clams carefully to save all the juice, chop them 
fine, then add two quarts of water and simmer three hours and 
twenty minutes, before taking from the fire, add one cupful of 
peas, one cupful of corn, one tablespoonful of whole black pepper, 
a few sprigs of parsley, and some drop dumplings made by beating 
up an egg lis^ht, adding^ an eofs-shell full of water, flour enoug:h to 
stiffen, mixed with a half teaspoonful of baking powder. 

Clam iSoi/jj — JVo. 2. 

Boil fifty of the small sand clams in two quarts of water, mix 
two tablespoonfuls of butter with one of flour; beat the yolks of 
two eggs and some cream, a few sprigs of parsley, season with salt 
and pepper. After these are added, let simmer a few minutes, 
then serve hot. To open them, put them into an iron pot, set it 
in a hot place and cover it up. When they become heated, the 
clams open; then take from the shells. 

/Swiss Soiq)- 
Take a sufficient quantity of good broth for six people, boil it, 
beat up three eggs light, add two spoonfuls of flour, and a cup of 
milk; pour these gradually through a sieve or a colander into the 
boiling broth. Season with salt and pepper to the taste. 

Green Corn /Soiij). 
Cut the corn from half a dozen ears, put on to cook, twenty min- 
utes before you wish to serve it, in one quart of water; when ready 
to dish add half a pint of good milk, a lump of butter the size of a 
walnut, one teaspoonful of flour mixed smooth with a little cold 
milk, and put into the soup hot. 

Potato tSoi/p. 
For half a dozen persons, take a quart of sliced raw potatoes, 



« 



SOUPS. 185 

put on to cook in three pints of hot water; Ijoil until tender, then 
add a handful of chopped parsley and chives, a pint of sweet milk, 
a lump of butter the size of a walnut, one tablespoonful of flour 
mixed smooth in a little water; add to the soup to thicken, and two 
beaten eggs. 

Noodle tSoup. 

Boil two chickens for the soup, add a little salt, remove the 
scum as it rises, bake four or five eggs, mix with the eggs as much 
flour as possible, roll the dough very thin and dry it on your bread 
board near the fire or in the sun. Roll your dough up, and cut as 
fine as straws; add to the broth, season with salt and pepper to the 
taste, and add a little parsley. When the chickens are tender, 
take them out and reserve one cup of the broth before the noodles 
are put in. Put a little butter in your skillet, roll each piece of 
chicken in a little flour, and fry a nice brown. Just before serving 
add the broth and half a cup of good cream or milk; serve. It can 
be made with one chicken. 

Noodles. 

To two eggs add as much sifted flour as it will absorb, with a lit- 
tle salt; roll out thin as a wafer, dry it, dust lightly with flour, roll 
up into a large roll, slice from the ends, shake out the strips loos- 
ly, put in your broth. It can be made with one ^^^. 

Pea Soup. 

Take a quart of shelled peas, boil the pods in two quarts of 
water until all the substance is boiled out of them, then strain and 
boil two pounds of beef in the same water, adding more water if 
necessary; remove the scum when it comes to the boil, and boil 
slowly until tender ; a quarter of an hour before serving add the 
peas, with a little parsley; let it boil slowly until the peas are ten- 
der, season with pepper and salt, thicken with one tablespoonful of 
flour and two of butter well mixed together. Pour over crackers. 

French ^Soup. 

Put your beef bone on in cold water, allowing two quarts of 



186 SOUPS. 

water to three pounds of beef. Boil until the meat is thoroughly- 
cooked; remove the scum as it rises, strain and pour the soup back 
into your kettle; add a teacupful of pearl barley, a few sliced po- 
tatoes, two carrots sliced, a turnip sliced, an onion sliced, a cup of 
cabbage, and one of celery chopped fine; salt and pepper to the 
taste, a little thyme and parsley. 

White iSoup. 

A knuckle of veal, four quarts of water, a little celery seed, one 
onion, two carrots, and two potatoes. Boil down to two quarts, 
strain the liquid and let it stand until it is cool, when all the fat 
must be removed; then add one pint of new milk or cream, the 
beaten yolks of three eggs, and two tablespoonfuls of vermicelli, or 
mix one tablespoonful of ground rice with a little water, and stir 
until it thickens. 

Lobster Soup. 

Take a shin of veal, two carrots, one onion, pepper and salt to 
the taste, and four quarts of water ; boil it three or four hours. 
Break up a large lobster, take the meat out of the shell, break the 
shell up and put it into a pan with water enough to cover it; let 
this simmer while the soup is boiling; then strain this and put it 
back into the soup pot; cut the lobster fine, add it to the soup and 
boil two hours. If you have the roe or corol of the lobster, grate 
it or put it into the soup; it improves the appearance of the soup; 
add a quarter of a pound of butter rubbed into two spoonfuls of 
flour and the juice of a lemon. 

T'nrtle /Soi/p. 

Take one good-sized turtle, scald and clean it, then take the four 
quarters, put them into one gallon of water and l)oil until the 
meat is ready to slip off the bones, then take all the meat out, 
separate it from the bones and chop it very fine, press the liquor 
through a colander, then return the meat and liquor to the kettle 
and add four potatoes and one onion, cut fine, and let it boil two 
hours; make a dressing of six hard-boiled eggs, chopped very fine, 



« 



SOUPS. 187 

one teaspoonful of mixed mustard, one teaspoonful of cloves and one 
teaspoonful of allspice, add this and let it boil a few minutes, salt and 
pepper to taste, add two talilespoonfuls of butter mixed well with 
two tablespoonfuls of flour. This will make three quarts of soup. 

Beef Soup. 

Take a good-sized beef bone, put it on at nine o'clock in enough 
water to cover well, add a little salt and remove the scum as it 
rises, at ten o'clock add cabbage the size of a small Early York, 
chopped fine, one common-sized turnip, chopped fine, one carrot 
half the size of a large onion, season to your taste with salt and 
pepper, adding very little thickening of beef, a pot of lioiling 
water to fill up with, and keep boiling constantly; take the meat 
that has been cut from the bones, chop fine while warm, season 
with salt and pepper, add one cupful of soup saved out before 
putting in the vegetables, put one quarter of an ounce of gelatine 
to soak in cold water twenty minutes, then stir it in the cup of hot 
l^roth ; pack the meat in a dish and pour the broth over it, when 
cold slice down for tea. 

Mutton Soup. 

Put on your meat if small pieces at ten o'clock, add a little salt, 
remove the scum as it rises, when carefully skimmed add two table- 
spoonfuls of vermicelli, one tablespoonful of celery seed, a little 
cabbage and one onion, pepper to taste. 

Macaroni Soup. 

Allow four pounds of beef to two and a half quarts of water, a 
little salt, one small onion, one carrot, and a small head of celery 
chopped, or a bunch of asparagus broken into small pieces. Let 
these boil four or five hours. Three-quarters of an hour before 
dinner add a heaping teacupful of macaroni broken into pieces 
half an inch long ; let this boil slowly. Add any other seasoning 
you like. 

Aspat'agus Soup. 

Cut the tops from thirty heads of asparagus about half an inch 



188 SOUPS. 

long, and boil the rest ; cut off all the tender portions, and rub 
through a sieve, adding a little salt; warm three pints of beef stock, 
add a small lump of butter, and a teaspoonful of flour, previously 
cooked by heating the butter, and slowly stirring in the flour; then 
add the asparagus pulp. Boil slowly a quarter of an hour, stirring 
in two or three tablespoonfuls of cream ; fifteen minutes before 
serving- the soup, add the asparagus tops. Use only the tender 
parts of the asparagus. 

Bean >S'om/j. 

One cupful of white soup beans in two ([uarts of water. Put on 
to boil at half-past nine o'clock; when ready to serve, strain through 
a colander with the potato masher, then return to the stove, add 
salt and pepper, with half a cup of cream, a little thickening, about 
one teaspoonful of flour mixed witli a tablespoonful of butter; add 
a little more water, if too thick. It is very nice made the same 
way with three pints of good beef stock. The beans can be whole if 
you prefer them, omitting the cream. 

Brown ^oup. 

Take one small tablespoonful of flour, and brown it; put it in a 
bowl, and mix with one ounce of butter, stir to a smooth paste, 
then add one pint of boiling water. Toast a piece of bread nicely, 
cut in small pieces, and pour over it; salt to the taste. 

Oyster /Soup. 

Take one quart of oysters, put the liquor from the oysters on the 
stove, season with salt and pepper, mix a small tablespoonful of 
flour with two of butter, add to the liquor; when it comes to the 
boil add half a cup of good cream, boil a few minutes, add the oys- 
ters; when they swell up nice and plump, serve; pour over rolled 
or broken crackers. 

Tomato Soup — 'Winter. 

Three pounds of beef, one quart of canned tomatoes, one gallon 
of water; let the meat and water boil for two hours, until the liquid 



« 



SOUPS. 189 

is reduced to a little more than two quarts, then stir in the toma- 
toes and stew all slowly for three-quarters of an hour longer; sea- 
son to the taste, strain and serve. Pour over l^roken or grated 
crackers. 

Tomato /So up — Smnmer. 

Two and a half pounds of veal or Iamb, one gallon of water, two 
quarts of fresh tomatoes, peeled and cut up fine ; reduce the water 
to two quarts, strain the liquor and put in the tomatoes, stirring them 
very hard that they may dissolve thoroughly; boil half an hour, sea- 
son with parsley or any other green herbs you may prefer, salt and 
pepper to the taste, and stir in a tablespoonful of butter with a tea- 
spoonful of white sugar; pour over grated crackers. 

Tomato /ioup. 

Take eight large tomatoes, boil twenty minutes in a quart of 
water, then strain and add half a teaspoouful of soda; when it 
stops foaming add a pint of boiling milk, then season with salt and 
pepper and butter; roll crackers and pour the soup over them, 
and serve. Canned tomatoes can be used; a quart-can will require 
nearly a teaspoonful of soda. 




MEATS. 



To Choose Meats. 

Vexison. — The choice of venison should be regulated by the 
appearance of the fat, which, when the venison is young, looks 
bright, thick, clear and close; it first changes toward the haunches. 
To ascertain whether it is sweet, run a knife into that part; if taint- 
ed it will have a rank smell and is not fit to cook. 

Beef. — True, well-fed beef may be known by the texture and 
color, the lean will exhibit an open grain of deep coral red, and 
the fat will appear of a healthy, oily smoothness, rather inclining 
to white than yellow; the suet firm and white. Yellow fat is a test 
of meat of an inferior quality. Heifer beef is but little inferior to 
ox beef; the lean is of a closer grain, the red, paler, and the fat, 
whiter. Cow beef may be detected by the same signs save that 
the older the beast the texture of the meat will appear closer and 
the flesh coarser to the sight, as well as harder to the touch. 

Veal. — When you observe the kidneys well surrounded with 
fat, you may be sure the meat is of a good quality. The whitest 
veal is not the best, but the flesh of the bull calf is a brighter 
color than that of the cow calf. The fillet of the latter is generally 
preferred on account of the udder. There is a vein in the shoul- 
der, very perceptible, and its color indicates the freshness of the 
meat; if a bright red or blue, it has been recently killed; if any 
green or yellow spots are visible, it is stale. The suet will be flab- 
by, and the kidney will smell. 



MEATS. 191 

MuTTox. — The best is a fine grain, a bright color, the fat firm 
and white; it is better for being grown. The meat of the ewe is 
light, while the grain is closer. The ram mutton may be known 
by the redness of the flesh and the sponginess of the fat. Lamb 
should be eaten when very fresh ; in the fore-quarter, the vein in 
the neck being any other color than blue betrays it to be stale; 
in the hind-quarter the faintness of its smell will prove it to be 
stale. 

PoKK. — In young pork the lean when pinched will break, the 
thickness and toughness of the rind shows it to be old. In fresh 
pork the flesh is firm, smooth, a clear color, and the fat set. When 
stale, it looks clammy and flabby. Measly pork may be detected 
by the kernels in the fat; it should not be eaten. Dairy fed pork 
bears the palm over all others. 

Hams. — The test of a sweet ham, is to pass a sharp knife to the 
bone, and when drawn out smell it; if the knife is daubed greasy, 
and the scent disagreeable, it is bad. A good ham will present an 
agreeable smell when the knife is withdrawn. 

Bacox. — Excellent young bacon may be thus known: the lean 
will be tender and of a bright color, the fat firm and white, yet 
having a pale rose tinge; the rind thin, and the lean tender to the 
touch. Rusty bacon has yellow streaks in it. 

General Rules for Cooking Meat. 

All salt meat should be put on in cold water, that the salt may 
be extracted while cooking. 

Fresh meat, which is boiled to be served with gravy at the table, 
should be put to cook in boiling water, when the outer fibers con- 
tract, and the inner juices are preserved. 

For making soup, put the meat on in cold water to extract the 
juices for the broth. 

In boiling meats, if more water is needed, add that which is hot, 
and be careful to keep the water on the meat constantly boiling. 

Remove the scum when it first begins to boil. 



192 MEATS. 

The more gently meat boils, the more tender it will become. 
Allow twenty minutes for boiling each pound of fresh meat. 

Roast meats require a good steady heat; a moderate fire is 
too slow; a brisk fire will bake it too hard, and absorb the juice 
of the meat. Allow two cupfuls of hot water to a roast of meat; 
add more as it boils away. 

Broiled Beefsteak. 

Lay a thick, tender steak upon a gridiron well greased with but- 
ter or beef suet, over hot coals; when done on one side, have 
ready the warm platter with a little butter on it; lay the steak, 
without pressing it, upon the platter with the cooked side down, 
so that the juices which have gathered may run on the platter; 
quickly place it again on the gridiron and season with pepper and 
salt, and cook the other side; when done to liking, put on the plat- 
ter again, spread lightly with butter, and place where it will keep 
warm (over boiling steam is best) for a few moments, but do 
not let the butter become oily. Serve on hot plates. 

Many prefer to sear on one side, turn immediately and sear the 
other, and finish cooking, turning often. The bars of the gridiron 
should be concave, and terminate in a trough to catch the juices, 
to prevent them from dropping into the fire and smoking the meat. 
If the gridiron is not greased the meat will retain the impression 
of the bars. Pound the steak before bi oiling. If the coals blaze 
from the dripping, sprinkle on a little salt to extinguish the flames. 

French Beefsteak. 

Cut the steak two-thirds of an inch thick, dip into melted fresh 
butter, lay them on a heated gridiron and broil over hot coals. 
"When nearly done sprinkle pepper and salt. Have ready some 
parsley chopped fine and mixed with softened butter. Beat them 
together to a cream and pour into the middle of the dish. Dip 
each steak into the butter, turning them over, and lay them on a 
warm platter. If liked, squeeze a few drops of lemon over and 
serve very hot. Pound the steak before broiling. 



MEATS. 193 

Fried Meat. 

Have a good fire, set your skillet on the stove, pound your steak ; 
as soon as the skillet commences to smoke a little, lay in your 
meat. Season with pepper and salt when half done, and keep 
turning with your fork until it is a nice brown, then add a table- 
spoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of flour, and brown in the butter, 
stirring until it is a nice brown. If the stove is hot, set it back a 
little to prevent scorching the flour. Then add your water from 
the kettle, stirring until it is nicely mixed. Serve at once. Meat 
is nice broiled this way with a little butter spread over it, laid on a 
hot platter and served at once. 

Boiled Meat. 
Meat for boiling should be put on in cold water, heated gradu- 
ally, and boiled gently. Too quick boiling hardens the meat. 
As soon as it comes to the boil, take ofE the sciim. Season with, 
salt and pepper to the taste. Allow fifteen minutes boiling for 
each pound of mutton or lamb; allow twenty minutes for other 
kinds of meat, reckoning from the time the water begins to boil.. 
Salt meat must be boiled longer than fresh meat; if too salt,, 
change the water. The water in which all kinds of fresh meat is. 
boiled can be made into soup. A shank bone should be cracked,, 
so that the marrow can be extracted. 

Parboiled Beef. 
Beef having a tendency to be tough can be made very palatable 
by stewing gently for two hours, with pepper and salt, taking out 
about a pint of the liquid when half done, and letting the rest boil 
into the meat; add a little butter and brown the meat in the pot. 
After taking up, make a gravy of the pint of liquid saved. 

Brealfast Boll. 

Prepare a good dressing, such as you like for turkey or duck, 

take a rovind steak, pound it but not very hard, spread the dressing 

over it, sprinkle over a little salt, pepper, and a few bits of butter; 

lap over the ends, roll the steak up tightly and tie closely. Spread 
13 



194 MEATS. 

two tablespoonfuls of butter over the steak after rolling it up; 
then wash with a well beaten egg, put water in the bake-pan, lay 
in the steak so as not to touch the water, lay on muffin rings or 
anything that will answer the purpose, and bake as you would a 
duck, basting often. A half hour in a brisk oven will bake it; 
mix a little flour and butter and thicken the gravy, serve. This 
may be made of raw or underdressed meat. If the meat is not 
raw but underdressed, surround the roll with pie crust. Bake and 
serve. 

Beef ((u Greitin. 

Take cold beef, either boiled or roasted, and cut it in thin 
slices. Grease a tin pan with butter, dust with cracker crumbs, 
add a little chopped parsley and lay on the slices of beef. Put 
salt, butter, pepper and parsley on top, dust with cracker crumbs, 
drop on lemon juice. Pour a cupful of hot broth in the pan and set 
in the oven, cover with a tight lid; serve when there is sufficient 
.broth around it to be good. Garnish with sliced lemons and parsley. 

Beef Lunch or Brealfast Dish. 

An excellent way of using up the odds and ends of steaks, roasts, 
■•chops, or any bits of cold meat, is to cut the meat from the bone, 
omitting the gristle and fat if desired. Chop as fine as for mince- 
meat, place in a pan, cover with water, adding more as it boils 
away; season with salt and pepper and let it boil gently for two 
iiours, lift in a dish and set away, and warm over in the morning; 
add a little butter, dust with flour and let boil gently half an hour. 
Toast to a delicate brown any bread you may have, stale or fresh, 
spread with butter, lay in single layers over your meat platter, 
spread the meat over and lay two hard-boiled eggs, sliced, over the 

meat. 

Beef Omelet. 

Three pounds of beef chopped fine, one teaspoonful of pepper, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoon- 
ful of thyme or sage; mix the beef, seasoning, and butter well 
with floured hands. Put into the pan with a little water, cover 



MEATS. 195 

closely and bake one hour; beat the eggs light and pour over the 
top. Bake five minutes and serve hot. 

Heef Hash. 

Take cold roast or boiled beef, cut in thin small pieces an inch 
long, add some cold boiled ham, cut the same, put into the skillet, 
dust with flour, add a little butter, cover with boiling water, add 
more as it boils away and let boil gently three hours. Lift in a 
dish, set away, in the morning warm over half an hour before meal- 
time, slice in an equal quantity of potatoes. When cooked add 
some celery tops or parsley chopped fine, and serve. 

Beef Cakes. 

Take some cold roast beef, that which is underdone is best, and 
an equal quantity of ham chopped fine ; mix with it some grated 
bread crumbs seasoned with salt and pepper, moisten with a table- 
spoonful of cream or milk, in which is put one teaspoonf ul of melt- 
ed butter, and add one teaspoonf ul of chopped parsley, mix through 
it two well beaten eggs to bind it. Make into flat cakes, and spread 
a layer of mashed potatoes thinly on the top; lay a small piece of 
butter on the top of each cake, place them in a pan and set in the 
oven to brown. 

Beef Loaf. 

Two pounds of round steak chopped fine, three eggs, eight soda 
crackers rolled very fine, a lump of butter the size of a walnut, one 
tablespoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of pepper, and half a nutmeg. 
Mix all together and bake two hours. Take a little water, and put 
some butter into it, and baste occasionally. 

Beef Be lis h. 

Two pounds of round steak chopped very fine, six crackers grat- 
ed, three eggs, two large teaspoonfuls of flour, a lump of butter 
the size of a walnut, pepper and salt. Mix thoroughly with the 
hand, make into a loaf, then bake in the oven one and a half hours, 
keeping just enough water to baste over it good. 



196 MEATS. 

Savory Beef. 

Three and a half pounds of lean, uncooked beef chopped very 
fine. Add six square soda crackers rolled fine, butter the size of 
an egg, warmed, but not melted, four tablespoonfuls of sweet 
cream, three eggs broken over the meat, one nutmeg grated, four 
teaspoonfuls of salt, two and a half of black pepper, a tablespoon- 
full of sweet marjoram; knead it well with your hands, make it in- 
to two rolls the size of a beef 's tongue, press it closely, bake an 
hour, baste with batter and water; turn when brown; slice thin 

when cold. 

Fricadelles. 

Take your cold meat, veal is preferable, and chop it like farce 

meat; mix it with grated bread, and three or four eggs; add salt, 

pepper, and a little thyme or parsley; make into balls and fry 

them in butter. 

Mock Terrapin. 

Half of a calf's liver, season and fry brown, hash it, but not too 
fine, dash thickly with flour; one teaspoonful of mixed mustard, as 
much cayenne pepper as you can put on a half-dime, the same of 
cloves, two hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, a lump of butter the 
size of an ^^^^ one teacupful of water. Let all boil together a 
minute or two, then add a wine-glass of cream. Cold veal will do 
if liver is not liked. 

Brealfast Stexo of Beef. 

Cut boiled or roasted beef into small thin pieces an inch long, 
put them into a skillet, add butter, pepper, and salt; boil two hours 
on the back of the stove, keep adding water as it boils away; set 
it away until morning, dust with flour, add a little thyme or sweet 
marjoram; boil half an hour and serve. 

Roast Beef. 

Lay the beef skin side uppermost in a clean baking pan, season 
with salt and pepper, dust with flour, and layover it bits of butter; 
pour ai-ound it a pint of hot water, shut the oven door, and do not 



MEATS. 197 

open again for fifteen minutes; then with an iron spoon dip up the 
salted water, and pour it over the top of the meat, wetting every 
jDart, and repeating twice; do this every fifteen minutes until done; 
taste the water, and if not salt enough add a little more salt; 
should one side of it or the back brown more rapidly than the rest, 
turn the pan in the oven, and should the water boil away, add an- 
other cupful of hot water from the teakettle. When done it should 
be a nice brown. Lift the pan to a side table, take up the beef by 
slipping a strong broad knife under it, holding it firmly with a fork, 
and transfer to a heated plate; set it in the plate- warmer, or over 
boiling water, while you make your gravy. Set the pan in which 
the meat was roasted on the range, scrape the browned flour from 
the sides and bottom, and dust in a little more from your duster as 
you stir; if the water has boiled away until very low in the pan, 
add a little boiling water and stir until the gravy is of the consis- 
tency of rich cream. Pepper to the taste and pour into a gravy- 
boat. Those who like rare beef prefer instead the red essence 
which falls from the carver's knife and settles in the dish. The 
carver shovild give each person helped his or her choice. All 
meats are roasted the same. Allow fifteen minutes to the pound 
if thick ; for rare meat twenty, for well done twelve, when thin. 
Roast veal must be cooked twice as long as beef or mutton, and 
well basted ; the flesh is fibrous. Dry mutton requires the same 
time as beef; lamb, two minutes less. Have a steady, moderate 
fire, and increase the heat if necessary. 

Lamb to Boil or Roast. 

A quarter of an hovir is generally allowed to each pound of meat. 
A leg of lamb of five pounds will take an hour and a quarter to 
boil or roast, the other joints in the same proportion. Serve either 
with salad, pickles or cauliflower. 

Roast of Venison. 

AYash in warm water and dry with a cloth ; lay in a deep baking 
pan skin side uppermost, season with salt and pepper; pour around 



198 MEATS. 

it one cup of boiling water, adding more as it boils away. Butter 
a sheet of white paper, lay over the fat, cover with a close-fitting 
lid, and cook in a moderately hot oven from three to four hours, 
according to the size of the roast; twenty minutes before it is done 
quicken the fire, remove the lid, taste the broth, and if not seasoned 
high enough add a little more, dust with flour, and lay over bits of 
butter; shut the oven door a few minutes, then open and baste 
well with the broth, repeating every few minutes until a nice 
brown; garnish the knuckle bone with a frill of white paper, re- 
move the fat and serve with a gravy made from the broth. Have 
the dishes on which the venison is served, and plates, very hot. 
Serve currant jelly with it, salad, pickles or cauliflower. 

Pressed Beef. 

Boil beef of any kind until the bones fall out, pick it over care- 
fully, removing all gristle and undigestible substances, chop it fine, 
season with salt, pepper, and such herbs as taste suggests, press 
in a pan with a heavy weight. When cold, cut in slices and serve. 
Very tough and cheap pieces of beef may be made really delicious 
by this mode of preparation. 

Tongue. 

A tongue should be soal<ed twelve hours in cold water, if salted 
and dried, if a fresh one from pickle, two hours' soaking in cold 
water is sufficient. In selecting a tongue ascertain how long it 
has l^een dried, pick the plumpest and smoothest, which is an evi- 
dence of its being young and tender. When boiled, let it stand 
in the water to cool; then take it out and skin it. 

Boiled Tongue. 

Wash well and soak over night in cold water. In the morning 
put in a pot with cold water and boil slowly until it is tender; this 
you can tell by running a fork into it. When cold pare off the 
thick skin, cut in round slices and garnish with parsley. Boiled 
tongue is very nice dipped in Qo^^., then cracker crumbs, and 
browned in the oven. Baste the tongue, while in the oven, liber- 



MEATS. 199 

ally, with butter and water. You can make a brown gravy of the 

water that is poured over. Trim off the ends, and serve hot or 

cold. 

Beefs Heart. 

Wash it carefully and put on in just enough cold water to cover 
the heart, take off the scum as it rises, add salt and pepper; when 
done take out the heart, cut into small pieces, strain the liquor it 
was boiled in, reduce until you have just enough to cover the 
meat, pour over it, and add some chopped celery, a little parsley, 
and some butter; dust with flour and add three hard-boiled 
eggs chopped fine; boil a few minutes and serve. If you wish to 
stuff it, make the incision with a long, sharp knife, being careful 
not to cut through to the outside. Stuff the same as duck. Roast 
it about one and a half hours and serve with the gravy. 

Beefs Liver — N'o. 1. 

Cut the liver in slices half an inch thick, rinse in cold water; 
dry it, roll in flour, and lay in a skillet in hot butter and lard 
mixed; season with salt and pepper, and fry slowly over a moder- 
ate fire until a nice brown; turn and brown the under side, then 
add a litle water for gravy. 

Beefs Liver— m). 2. 

Cut the liver thin, rinse in cold water; wipe dry; dip in beaten 
Qgg, then in cracker crumbs; season with salt and pepper, and fry 
a nice brown over a moderate fire. 

Beef Lot'/. 

Three and a half pounds of lean raw beef pounded and chopped 
very fine. Roll very fine six square soda crackers; butter the size 
of an egg warmed a little, four tablespoonfuls of sweet cream, 
three eggs broken over the meat, and salt and pepper; mix well 
and knead with your hands; make into two rolls the size of beef 
tongues, press closely; put into a pan and bake one hour and a 
half; baste with butter and water, and brown on both sides. "When 
cold slice for tea. 



200 MEATS. 

Croquettes. 

Take a cold fowl, or cold meat of any kind, with a little boiled 
ham, chop very fine, add half as much grated bread, season with 
salt and pepper, add a small lump of butter, and moisten with one 
tablespoonful of cream; or use mashed potatoes, season with salt 
and pepper, add one egg beaten light; mix well together, mould 
into rolls about three and a half inches long, and rather more than 
an inch in diameter. Roll these over and over on a floured board 
to get them smooth, and regular in shape; flatten the ends by set- 
ting each upright on a floured dish, dip in Qgg., and cracker crumbs, 
and fry the same as fritters in enough hot lard to cover them. 

Beefstealx ami Toast. 

Chop your cold beefsteak fine as for hash, removing all the gris- 
tle; put this into your frying-pan, add boiling water, season to the 
taste with butter, salt, and pepper ; dust over sufficient flour to 
thicken a little, add two hard-boiled eggs chopped fine; boil two 
hours, adding more water as it boils away. Toast some bread a 
nice brown, lay on your meat platter, and pour over. This is an ex- 
cellent way of using up the odds and ends of steaks, roasts, chops, 
or any bits of cold meat. 

Beefsteak Pie. 

Take cold roast beef or beefsteak, cut into small pieces, add some 
boiled potatoes — equal quantities, — a little boiled ham cut fine im- 
proves it. Season with salt, pepper, and a tablespoonful of butter; 
dust over a little flour, add a cup of boiling water, add more as it 
boils away. Boil vuitil nearly done, then mix with it two hard- 
boiled eggs chopped fine. Line your pie-dish with pastry, fill and 
cover; when baked, it is done. 

Dried Liver. 

Allow a beefs liver to remain in corned beef brine for ten days, 
hang it up to dry, in ten days it will be ready for use; slice thin, 
and fry in a little butter, add half a cupful of cream. 



MEATS. 201 

Beefsteak Pot-pie. 

Cut the steak into small pieces an inch long, stew with the bone 
cracked, in just enough water to cover the meat until nearly done. 
Line a pudding-dish with puff paste; put in a layer of the beef, season 
with salt and pepper, lay bits of butter over, cut some pieces of 
the paste small, scatter them over the meat, then one of sliced 
boiled 23otatoes, with a little butter scattered upon them and a lit- 
tle salt and pepper, a few pieces of boiled ham sliced thin, three 
hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine, scattered over it, repeat until the 
dish is full, pour over the broth in which the meat was stewed. 
Cover with a crust, nick the center first, bake; when the crust is 
baked it is done. 

Frizzled Beef. 

Cut dried beef very thin, put into a pan with butter, stirring 
quickly, beat two or three eggs very light, pour it, stirring con- 
stantly, until set; dish immediately. 

Dried Beef in Cream. 

The usual way of preparing dry beef is to shave in thin slices or 
chips; for a change, shave your beef very fine, if salt, pour over it 
boiling water, let it stand for a few minutes, drain. Put on in a 
skillet in a little warmed butter and stir until a nice brown, then 
add half a cupful of cream; let come to a boil. If you have no 
cream use milk, and add a little butter and thicken with a very lit- 
tle flour; season with pepper and serve on toast or not, as you like. 

Deviled Beef. 

Take slices of cold roast beef, dip in e^g and cracker crumbs, lay 
upon a gridiron well greased with butter or beef suet over hot 
coals; when brown on one side, turn and brown the under side, 
season with salt and pepper; serve hot with a small lump of but- 
ter on each one. 

Broiled Beefsteak for Invalids. 

Select a good sirloin steak, chop fine, form into small flat cakes. 



202 MEATS. 

lay upon a gridiron well greased with butter, over hot coals, when 
brown on one side turn and brown the under side; season with salt 
and pepper; serve hot on heated plates. Very nice when hot, but 
not good when cold. 

Fried Tripe. 

Select honeycomb tripe, roll in flour or dip in Q^'g and cracker 
crumbs; fry in hot butter until a delicate brown on both sides; 
pour over the gravy and add a little lemon juice if liked. 

Beefsteak Smothered with Onions. 

Cut up six onions very fine and season with salt and pepper; 
melt a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and fry the onions a nice 
brown; then have the steak broiled, lay it in with the onions, and 
let it steam a couple of minutes; when done lay it on a hot platter, 
and spread the onions over the meat. 

Sweet-breads. 

Sweet-breads should be chosen as fresh as possible. They will 
keep only a short time. There are two kinds — heart sweet-breads 
and throat sweet-breads. The heart sweet-breads are the best; 
soak a few minutes in cold water, parboil for ten minutes in boil- 
ing water; this makes them swell up; remove all the tough parts 
carefully, then put into cold spring water to blanch a few minutes. 
Parboil means to half boil. They may be cut in slices, fried, 
boiled or broiled. They are in full season from May to August. 

Sioeet-hreads Broiled. 

Parboil and rub them well with butter, and broil on a clean grid- 
iron. Turn frequently and occasionally roll over in a plate con- 
taining some hot melted butter. This will prevent them from get- 
ting too dry and hard. 

Sioeet-breads Boiled. 

Take two large parboiled sweet-breads, put them into a stew- 
pan with a cup of water, add more as it boils away, season with 
salt and pepper to the taste; let it stew half an hour over a slow 



MEATS. 203 

fire, then mix one small tablespoonful of flour with a lump of but- 
ter the size of a walnut; stir in with the sweet-breads, mix well, 
and let it boil a couple of minutes, then lift the sweet-breads into a 
dripping-pan, pour the broth around them and set in a quick oven. 
When nicely browned, serve. 

Sweet-hreads Fried. 

Take parboiled sweet-breads, cut them in slices, season with 
pepper and salt; roll in well-beaten Q^^^ then in cracker crumbs; 
fry in butter a nice brown, and serve. If you prefer you can 
serve on toast, allowing as many slices of bread as there are sweet- 
breads. 

Stceet-hreads Haked. 

Take parboiled sweet-breads, cut into thin slices, trim, and sea- 
son with salt and pepper; roll in well beaten ^^'S,^ then in cracker 
crumbs. Put a tablespoonful of butter in a thick bottomed skillet; 
when melted, lay in the sweet-breads; set in the oven of the stove, 
cover close; when brown on the under side, turn and brown the 
other side. Serve with brown sauce flavored with lemon juice. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 

Kidneys Broiled or Roasted. 
Split the kidneys in two without separating the halves, peel ofi" 
the thin outer skin, and take out the fibre which runs through it. 
Season them with salt and pepper, Ijoil them, laying the flat sides 
first on the gridiron to retain the juices; or fry in a little butter 
the same way, or place them with the flat sides up in a thick-bot- 
tomed skillet, add a little butter, salt, and pepper; cover close; 
brown the under side, turn, and l)rown the other; immediately be- 
fore serving put on each half kidney a small piece of butter; serve 
on a warm dish; bake in a moderate oven. 

Stewed Kidneys. 
Split the kidneys, and peel off the outer skin as before, slice 
them thin on a plate, season with salt and pepper, put on in enough 
iDoiling water to cover, and cook until tender, adding a little more 



204 MEATS. 

hot water if necessary; thicken with one small tablespoonful of 
flour well mixed with a lump of butter the size of a walnut. Stir 
well, and let boil until the gravy thickens, then serve. 

Ziamb Chops Broiled. 

Cut the chops about half an inch thick, trim them neatly, remov- 
ing- most of the fat, place them on a hot gridiron, over a clear Are, 
and brown them nicely on both sides. Cut into the largest to see 
if it is done ; If it is, season witli salt and pepper, lay the chops on 
a heated dish; set over a pot of boiling water, butter and cover 
them up while you cook the rest; serve as soon as the last is cook- 
ed, as they lose their flavor standing; garnish the edges of the dish 
with parsley, and scatter a few over the chops, rub the gridiron with a 
little fat before broiling. 

Lamb lStev:ied. 

Take two pounds of lamb, put it into a stewpan and cover with 
cold water, when it comes to the boil remove the scum, add a little 
salt and pepper, and boil until the meat is tender. It usually takes 
from an hour and a half to two hours, add boiling water as it boils 
away; when done thicken the broth with a small tablespoonful of 
flour and a lump of butter the size of a walnut, well mixed. If 
fond of peas you can add a pint, twenty minutes before it is done, 
and half a cup of cream. 

Lmnh Cutlets Fried. 
Cut the mutton in slices half an inch thick, trim them neatly, 
removing all the fat, whip two eggs, pour them into a deep, flat 
dish, in another dish spread evenly a cupful of rolled or pounded 
cracker-dust, season the cracker-dust with salt and pepper and roll 
the cutlets, one by one, first in the egg^ then in the cracker-dust; 
fry in butter, set the skillet on the range, when the butter begins 
to hiss pvit in as many cutlets as can lie in it without crowding; cook 
gently until thoroughly done. 

A Leg of Mutton Roasted. 

Cut off the knuckle, remove the thick skin and trim off a piece of 



MEATS. 205 

thick flank, rub over with a little salt, dust with flour and pepper, 
lay in the dripping-pan, lay bits of butter over. Pour two cupfuls 
of boiling water in the pan, baste the joint for a short time with it, 
then use gravy from the meat itself, basting every ten minutes; 
add more water from the kettle as it boils away. A leg of 
mutton, if too large, can be divided and the knuckle boiled. 
To keep part uncooked, wipe very dry, dust with flour and pepper, 
keep in a cool place covered with a wire cover, or put in earthen 
crocks and tie netting over the tops. 

Veal Cutlets. 

Cut the veal in slices half an inch thick, trim the edges neatly, 
whip two eggs, pour them into a deep flat dish. In another dish 
spread evenly a cupful of lolled or pounded crackers, season the 
crackers, dust with salt and pepper, fry in butter. Set the skillet 
on the range, when the butter begins to hiss put in as many cutlets 
as can lie in it without crowding; let them cook rapidly the first 
three or four minutes, then turn carefully and cook the under side 
the same, then move the pan where they will cook slowly and reg- 
ularly, turning the second time. In thirty minutes it will be 
cooked. The fast cooking at first sears the meat and keeps in the 
juices. Lift the cutlets from the pan, draining all the grease from 
each, and keep hot in a covered dish; set over a pot of l^oiling 

water until all are done. 

Veal Fried. 

Cut the veal chops half an inch in thickness, trim them neatly, 
melt a little butter in a frying pan, put the chops in it, season with 
salt and pepper and fry them until they are thoroughly done and 
nicely browned. Put half a tablespoonful of flour in the pan, stir it 
until a nice brown, being careful not to scorch the flour, then add 
a little hot water from the kettle slowly, until you have sufficient 
for the gravy; stir until it thickens, then serve. 

Saoory Meat. 

Four pounds of veal chopped, three eggs, salt and pepper, six 



206 MEATS. 

lar^e soda crackers grated, parsley and spice to the taste; make in- 
to a loaf, and bake one hour. 

Veal Loaf. 

Three pounds of veal, two tablespoonfuls of cracker crumbs, two 
tablespoonfuls of sweet cream, one egg, pepper and salt to the 
taste, season with parsley, chop the veal fine, take out the strings, 
mix and make into a loaf, put a piece of butter the size of a walnut 
on top; bake in a pan. 

Veal Scallop. 

Chop fine some cold veal, and put a layer in the bottom of a 
pudding-dish, and season with pepper and salt, scatter over bits of 
butter, next put a layer of broken crackers (not powdered), strew 
some bits of butter over, boil three eggs hard, chop fine, scatter 
over the crackers, alternating until the dish is full, finish with 
crackers, and pour over a pint of boiling hot broth in which the 
veal was cooked, bake half an hour; it should be a nice brown 
when done. 

Marbled Veal. 

Boil a beef tongue the day before it is to be used, and a like 
quantity of lean veal, chop them very fine, keeping them in sepa- 
rate vessels until you are ready to pack, season the tongue with 
pepper, a teaspoonful of mustard, a little nutmeg and cloves, a 
pinch of each; powdered sweet herbs, if liked; season the veal in 
like manner with the addition of salt, pack in alternate spoonfuls 
as irregularly as possible, in cups, bowls, or jars, which have been 
well buttered; press very hard as you go on, smooth the top, and 
cover with melted butter. When this cools, cover close and keep 
in a cool, dry place, turn out whole or cut in slices for tea, garnish 
with parsley or the blanched tops of celery, and lay thin slices of 
lemon on the top. 

Veal Olives vyith Oysters. 

Take veal chops, trim and spread each neatly with farce meat 
made of bread crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, a little but^ 



MEATS. 207 

ter, and moistened with a teaspoonful of cream ; add a little chopped 
ham pork seasoned with salt and pepper; over this spread some 
chopped oysters, allowing four to a good-sized slice of veal. Roll 
them up carefully and closely and pin each with two small wood- 
en skewers. Lay them in a dripping pan on muffin rings, scatter 
over them bits of butter, a little salt and pepper, and dust well 
with flour; put two cups of boiling water in the pan, shut the oven 
door and do not open it again for five minutes; then open and with 
an iron spoon dip up the salted water and pour it over the top of 
the meat, wetting every part; repeat this twice; do this every fif- 
teen minutes until done. Taste the water; if not salt enough add 
a little more salt. Should they brown more rapidly on one side 
than the other, turn the pan; should the water boil away, add a 
little more. When they are done they should be a nice brown. 
Remove to a warm dish and cover while you add a little oyster 
liquor to the gravy left in the dripping pan. Let this simmer three 
or four minutes; thicken with a small tablespoonful of flour and 
butter, well mixed together and stir in the broth; when it thickens, 
serve. 

J^eal Cho2)S Breaded. 

Take five or six nicely trimmed chops, season them with salt and 
pepper and put them into melted butter. When sufficiently soaked 
dip them into beaten eggs; take them out and roll each separately 
into bread crumbs. Make the chops as round as you can with 
your hand and lay them in a dish. When all are breaded, broil slow- 
ly over a moderate fire to prevent the bread from being too highly 
colored. Serve with clear gravy. 

Veal Steiced. 

Cut the veal up in small pieces, stew in a quart of water, allow- 
ing enough water on to make gravy if it boils away. Season with 
a little salt, boil about two hours, then beat up the yolk of one 
egg in a little water and a tablespoonful of flour; stir in, when it 
thickens serve. Cooked in this way it is very much like chicken. 



208 MEATS. 

Veal Pot-Pie. 

Cut the veal in small pieces, put on at ten o'clock, season with a 
little salt, stew until nearly done. Make a crust of three cups of 
flour, mix in the flour one teaspoonful and a half of baking 
powder, a half a teaspoonful of salt, then rub lightly into the flour 
one-quarter of a cup of butter and lard mixed ; beat an e^^ a little 
and mix through the flour, add cold water a little at a time until you 
have enough to make a soft dough. Roll very thin; cut in small 
squares. Lay a dish in the bottom of a deep pot to prevent burn- 
ing; first a layer of potatoes, season with a little salt and pepper, 
scatter a few bits of butter over, then a layer of the dough, a lay- 
er of the meat, season again with a little salt and pepper, repeat- 
ing until all is in the pot. Pour the veal broth it was boiled in 
over it boiling hot; if not enough to cover, add a little boiling 
water from the kettle. Cover the pot close and set it on top of 
the stove instead of in the hole. Do not lift the lid until you 
think it is done. When the potatoes are cooked it will be done. 
It is safer to try a piece of the dough. Half an hour is the usual 
time for boiling potatoes. Keep the pot boiling until it is done. 
This will be enough for six persons. 

Veal Cutlets — A la Milanalse. 

Trim some veal cutlets into a uniform shape, and dip them in 
liquified butter, that is, butter melted on the range; then pass them 
through a mixture of equaal parts of bread crumbs and grated 
Parmesan cheese, properly peppered and salted. When set, dip 
them in a beaten up eg^g and pass them through the mixture again. 
When all are breaded, broil slowly over a moderate fire to prevent 
the bread from being too highly browned. 

Roast Veal. 

Take a nice kidney piece of five or six pounds, stuff as you 
would fowl, season and roast the same as Ijeef. It will require two 
hours. 



MEATS. 209 

Pork Chops I> roiled. 

Cut the chops half an inch thick, have a clear fire, heat the grid- 
iron, grease the bars with lard or butter, otherwise the meat will 
retain the impression of them; lay the chops on, broil slowly, giv- 
ing it time to cook through without drying or burning; when ready 
to turn over, dij) the cooked side in melted butter seasoned with 
salt and pepper; the liutter should be prepared on a platter and 
kept hot without boiling. It must be well done; there should be 
no sign of blood in the meat when cut; it requires slow broiling; 
it will take at least twenty minutes to broil a pork-steak. 

Pork Chops Fried. 

Cut pork cho})S a half an inch in thickness, trim them neatly, 
melt a little butter in a frying pan, put the chops in, season with 
salt and peppe^, and fry them until they are thoroughly done. A 
little sugar sprinkled over with the salt and pepper is very much 
liked by some excellent cooks. Pour a little water in the pan, 
stir well and pour around the meat, serve. 

Poast Loin of Pork. 

Score the skin of a fresh loin of pork at equal distances, about 
a quarter of an inch apart, season with salt and pepper, dust over 
with flour, and a slight sprinkle of sugar, if liked; pour around it 
two cvips of water, baste liberally with the drippings every fifteen 
or twenty minutes; if it browns too much on one side, turn the 
pan; when done, dust a little flour in the gravy to thicken, and li!t 
the meat on a hot dish, set where it will keep warm, and set the 
pan on top of the stove to boil until it thickens a little, stirring 
it to prevent burning; serve with cranl)erry or apple sauce. 

Poast Pi<j. 

Clean it again after coming from market, singe ofi' the haire, 

wash clean, cut the eyes out with a penknife, clean the ears, take 

out the tongue; make a filling the same as for a fowl, rub over the 

pig in every part a little salt, sprinkle over a little pepper, stuff 
14 



210 MEATS. 

the pig in its original size and shape, sew up, place in kneeling pos- 
ture in the dripping pan, tying the legs in proper position, pour 
around it two cupfuls of water, dust with flour, lay over a few bits 
of butter, baste in the water in the pan three times as the pig 
warms, afterwards with the gravy from dripping-pan; when it be- 
gins to smoke all over, rub every ten minutes with a rag dipped in 
melted l:)utter, this will keep the skin from cracking. Boil the 
liver in a little salt-water, Just before sewing take out the liver, 
chop or mash it up, work some flour into a small piece of butter, 
stir all in gravy, jjut over the fire again and let all come to a boil; 
take it off and pour into a gravy-boat. Boil the feet separately 
and make into jelly or souse, watch carefully to prevent burning; 
if danger of this, put a clean white paper between it and the fire. 
Roast in a moderate oven two and a half hours, according to its 
size ; when done place the pig upon a large hot dish, surround with 
parsley and blanched celery tops, place a green wreath around its 
neck and a sprig of celery in its mouth. In carving, cut off the 
head, first split down the back, take off hams and shoulders, and sep- 
arate the ribs. 

To Boast a Leg of Pork. 

Choose a small leg of fine young pork, score the skin at equal 
distances, but not deeper than the outer rind ; season with 
salt and pepper and dust over with flour; pour around it two 
cupfuls of boiling water, set in the oven; baste liberally with 
drippings every fifteen or twenty minutes, if in danger of burn- 
ing, place a clean white paper over it; when done, place on a hot 
plate, set over a pot of hot water; skim the fat off the gravy, dust 
in a little flour to thicken. Serve in a gravy-boat. 

Roast Chine of Pork. 

Boil half an hour in hot salt water, take out and lay upon a dish 
to cool somewhat. Rub the warm chine all over with a little pep- 
per, then with beaten egg; strew with bread crumbs and set in a 
good oven until tender. Should it brown too fast, cover it. 



MEATS. 211 

Boiled Pig''s Feet. 

Take the fore feet, cut ofE the hocks, clean and scrape them 
well ; wrap each pig's foot in a cotton bandage wound two or three 
times around it and well corded with twine; then boil them four 
hours; let them remain in the bandages until needed to fry; broil 
or pickle. The skin will hold it together while being cooked, and 
when you eat them you will find they are tender and delicate as 
possible. When old and young feet are boiled two and one-half 
hours, as usual, the old ones are tough and worthless. If they were 
boiled three and one-half hours the young feet would burst and 
the gelatine swim away. The secret of success is in having them 
bandaged. 

Fried l^ipare liib. 

Lay your ribs in a thick bottomed skillet, season with pepper 
and salt, a slight sprinkle of sugar; pour around them one cup of 
boiling water; cover close; when the water has boiled away add a 
little butter and fry a nice brown. This is an excellent way to' 
■cook them ; it removes the strong taste they usually have and 
makes them very tender. 

Broiled Ham. 

Cut the slices a quarter of an inch thick, saw the bone, take otf 
the rind and broil qviickly. Butter it and serve. 

Boiled Ham. 

Scrape and wash carefully in lukewarm water. Put it in a boil- 
er to cook with enough boiling water to cover it, hock end up, let 
it boil slowly for two hours and a half, if its weight is not more 
than eight or ten pounds. Take it off the fire and let the ham re- 
main in the water it is boiled in until cold; the outside then will 
not turn black and dry up as it does when taken from the water 
to cool, consequently, there is less waste in preparing them for the 
table. But always remember to remove the lid of the kettle so 
that the steam may escape. When cold skin it, trim off all irregu- 
larities, dry it, lay it in your dripping- jDan, fat side uppermost; 



212 MEATS. 

grate bread crumbs, mix with them one teaspoonful of powdered 
sugar, sprinkle over it; put in the oven for half an hour and bake 
until a nice brown. When cool, fasten a frill of white paper 
around the bone and garnish with parsley. 

Neti^ ^Var/ of CooJiing Sausages. 

Put them into a baking pan, turning them when necessary, just 
as if you were frying them. Brown them well; they are less greasy . 
than if fried, and are more delicate. If possible, apples in some 
form should always accompany sausages or pork of any kind to the 
table. 

Ham Sandwiches. 

Take the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, three tablespoonfuls of 
prepared mustard, and stir with half a pound of butter, to a cream; 
spread over your rolls with this, and put on it finely chopped ham, 
free from fat. 

Appetizing SandvHches. 

Take equal quantities of the breast of a cold boiled chicken and 
of cold boiled tongue; chop them very iine, so that you cannot dis- 
tinguish the separate particles, and a good large half teaspoonful of 
celery salt, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and four tablespoonfuls of 
mayonaise dressing. This quantity of condiments will be enough 
to season the breast of one large chicken, and an equal quantity of 
tongue. When this is perfectly cold, spread some rolls with butter 
and then with this mixture. Do not prepare them until you are 
about ready to serve them. If you wish to take sandwiches for 
a lunch when travelling, l)e careful not to make the dressing quite 
so moist as you would if they are to be eaten at home. The better 
way, if you do not object to the trouble, is to put the salad filling 
in a small glass jar antl spread the sandwiches as you need them. 

Mayonaise Dressing. 

Yolks of two raw ^^^^.^ half a pint of olive oil or melted butter, 
juice of two lemons, or a small cup of vinegar, two saltspoonfuls 



MEATS. 213 

of salt, one saltspoonful of mustard, cayenne pepper to the taste. 
Beat the eggs to a cream, add the seasoning, then the vinegar and 
oil, alternately; beat until thiciv as boiled custard. 

Sardine Sandwiches. 

Pick sardines fine, take an equal quantity of cold boiled ham 
chopped very fine, mix all with mayonaise dressing, and spread 
your rolls with butter, then with this. 

Pla in Sandtvic/i es. 

Slice cold boiled ham thin, spread your rolls with butter, and 
lay the ham on. 

7'o Cure Hams and -Beef. 

To one hundred-weight of beef take four pounds of salt, one 
pound of sugar, one ounce of saltpetre; mix all together and rub 
it on the meat; lay it on a board or shelf in a cool place to drain, 
but do not let it freeze ; leave it there for two weeks and then 
hang it up to smoke dry. It is not put in pickle, and you can 
smoke it as much as you wish to. Some like it well smoked, oth- 
ers not so much. It dries as it smokes, and you can use your own 
judgment about how long to let it hang in the smoke-house. 
Green sugar-tree wood is very nice to smoke them with, or white 
oak. 

7'o Ciire Hams and Shoidders 

Salt the hams and shoulders lightly; in five or six days pour off the 
bloody pickle and make the following pickle and pour over it: To 
every three gallons of water take four pints of salt, one ounce of 
saltpetre, one and one-half pounds of brown sugar; dissolve by 
boiling; when cold, pour over the meat until covered; let it re- 
main in pickle from three to six weeks, according to size of ham. 
When you first salt down, sprinkle over the hams and shoulders 
black cayenne pepper plentifully, which will prevent the flies from 
disturbing it when hung in smoke. Smoke with green wood 
eight weeks, or until the rind is a light chestnut color. 



214 MEATS. 

To (Jure Beef. 

Three gallons of water, three pints of salt, one ounce of salt- 
petre, one pound of sugar. First salt the beef lightly; after four 
or five days pour off the pickle; then after boiling the above in- 
gredients and letting them stand until cold, pour on the beef until 
it is completely covered. After being in pickle three weeks draw 
and hang it in smoke as long as you wish, according to taste. 

To Cure 3feat. 

To one hundreds pounds of meat take five and a half gallons of 
soft water, five pounds of salt, one pound of brown sugar, one-fourth 
ounce of saltpetre. Salt the meat in the usual way, let stand, dry 
five or six weeks before using this pickle. 

To Cure /Sausage. 

To half a gallon of water add one cup of sugar, one cup of 
salt, one teaspoonful of pepper, half a teaspoonful of saltpetre. 

To Make Sausage. 

Chop your meat fine, season with pepper and salt to taste, mix 
it well through the meat, salt lightly; at first fry a little of the 
meat, if not seasoned high enough add a little more, fry and taste 
it again; when it suits your taste it is ready for the skins or 
to be made into cakes. I like one-fourth beef, chopped fine 
and mixed with the pork, add a little thyme, sweet marjoram, 
powdered, or any herbs that you prefer, and a little coriander seed 
is very nice. I like very little fat in sausage. 

Hov:i to Keep Hams Through the Summer. 

When taken from the smoke-house do not allow a fly to come 
near them, sew them immediately in a coarse cloth, wrap in two 
thicknesses of brown paper, and pack them in slaked hickory 
ashes, sprinkle ashes in the bottom three inches thick, lay in the 
hams, sprinkle over again three inches, lay in another ham, repeat- 
ins: until the barrel is filled. 



PICKLES OI^ I^ELISHES. 



Good cider vinegar is the best for pickles, but not of the sharp- 
est kind. Boil in a porcelain kettle on the top of the stove; avoid 
metal vessels of every kind, and do whatever lifting there may be 
with a wooden spoon. Put the pickles when made into small stone 
or glass jars. Small jars as the cpiality of the pickle deteriorates 
after the jar has been once opened, and use glass jars, if possible, 
as the vinegar acts dangerously on the glazed surface of the earth- 
enware. Be exceedingly careful to keep the pickles always entire- 
ly covered with vinegar. Store in a dry place, damp being 
especially injurious to all kinds of pickles. 

CauUfloxoer Pickles — No. 1. 

Soak the cauliflower in weak salt water over night, boil tender 
enough to run a straw through, take one })int of vinegar, two ta- 
blespoonfuls of ground mustard, put in with the vinegar, one ta- 
bles^oonful of celery seed, two peppers, one teaspoonful of olive 
oil, half a cup of sugar. Let this come to a boil and pour over the 
cauliflower before putting into the jar. This will make enough to 
fill two quart jars. 

CauUJloirer Pickles — JVo. 2- 

One peck of cauliflowers broken into small branches; let it lie in 
salt water twenty-four hours, then boil it in weak vinegar and wa- 
ter until it begins to soften, take one-half pound of brown sugar, 
one ounce of ground pepper, one ounce of tumeric, one ounce of 
celery seed, one ounce of white mustard seed, one-half an ounce of 
cloves. Drain the cauliflower, and boil up with spices in a gallon 
of vinegar. Put in small glass jars. Seal. 



210 PICKLES OR RELISHES. 

Tom f (to Catsup — No. 1. 

Half a bushej of ripe tomatoes; pour boiling water on the toma- 
toes, and then peel them, and boil until soft enough to press through 
a sieve; return to the kettle and boil two hours; then add one pint 
of vinegar, half a teacupful of salt, a small cup of sugar, one table- 
spoonful of allspice, two tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, a scant quar- 
ter of a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper. Boil until it commences 
to thicken ; bottle and seal. 

Tomato Catsup — No. 2. 

One peck of tomatoes boiled, and strained through a wire sieve; 
add one tablespoonful of ground cloves, one tablespoonfuU of all- 
spice, one ounce of celery seed, one ounce of mustard seed, three 
sharp mangoes, two tablespoonfuls of salt, one of cayenne pepper. 
After all is boiled, pour in one pint of vinegar. 

Tomato Catsup — No. 3. 
One peck of ripe tomatoes, two cups of chopped onions, one cup 
of grated horse-radish, one cup of mustard, one cup of sugar, one 
half cup of salt, three pints of vinegar, one ounce of celery seed, 
three tablespoonfuls of black pepper, one tablespoonful of red 
pepper, or one dozen pepper pods chopped fine, two teaspoonfuis 
of cloves, two teaspoonfuls of mace, two teaspoonfuls of ground 
cinnamon. 

(renna)! oauce. 

One gallon of cabbage, one gallon of tomatoes, six green pep- 
pers, two quarts of celery, two onions, half a gill of white mustard 
seed, one gill of whole cloves, four tablespoonfuls of salt, four ta- 
blespoonfuls ground allspice, two boxes of durham mustard, one 
pound of white sugar, three quarts of vinegar; mix well and boil 
together fifteen minutes. 

Pkkeled Beans. 

Boil tender beans in water slightly salted until tender; drain in 
a colander, lay in jars and pour lioiling vinegar, spiced, over them; 
seal. 



PICKLES OR RELISHES. 217 

Mixed Pickles. 

Two heads of cauliflower, one quart of" string beans, one and a 
half quarts of small cucumbers, a few small tomatoes, a few green 
grapes, two green peppers cut up, one-fourth of a pound of yellow 
mustard, ground, three cents worth of tumeric, one gallon of vine- 
gar; mix mustard and tumeric with cold vinegar until smooth, stir- 
ring all the time; boil the rest of the vinegar and pour over the 
pickles, put a weight on them, let stand a day or two, heat vinegar 
again, jjour on boiling; boil third time and add the mustard and 
tumeric, boil until thick; put pickles in glass jars, then pour over 
the vinegar. If you don't have enovigh to cover, make more. 
Boil the cauliflower two minutes, beans until tender. Cut them 
middling small. 

Mustard Pickle. 

One teaspoonful of mustard seed, half a cup of ground mustard, 
one small cup of whole cloves, a very little mace, one tablespoon- 
ful of black pepper, one teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, two tea- 
spoonfuls of salt, three quarts of vinegar, four small onions chop- 
ped fine; boil all together. 

Chopped Pickles. 

One dozen green cucumbers, one dozen tomatoes, one cup of 
horse-radish, chop all fine, scald with mustard pickle; bottle; seal. 

Tomato Sauce. 

Nine large tomatoes, two onions, one pepper chopped fine, two 
tablespoonfuls of salt, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful of cinnamon, one tablespoonful of cloves, one tablespoonful of 
allspice, two cups of vinegar, one spoonful of mustard. Boil one 
hour. 

Chov} Chov — JSFo. 1. 

Quarter of a peck of green tomatoes, three large heads of cab- 
bage, fifteen large onions, twenty-five cucumbers, one pint of 
grated horse-radish, half a pound of white mustard seed, one ounce 



218 PICKLES OR RELISHES. 

of celery seed, one quart of very small onions, half a teacupful of 
ground pepper, tumeric and cinnamon, each. Cut the onions, cu- 
cumbers, tomatoes and cabbage into small pieces, pack them down 
in salt one night, and in the morning drain off the brine; put them 
to soak for a day or two in vinegar and water; drain again and 
mix the spices in. Boil one and a half gallons of vinegar with two 
and a half pounds of sugar; pour over hot; do this three success- 
ive mornings; on the third, mix one box of mustard with half a pint 
of salad oil; add to it when it is ready for the Jar. In a few weeks 
it will be ready for use. 

Choio Choio — Ro. 2. 

One quart of celery, cut fine, one peck of hard green tomatoes, 
six onions, six red peppers, chop all fine and salt with one cupful 
of salt, and let stand three hours, put in jelly-bag and drain, one 
quart of vinegar, let boil, put in a cupful of sugar; spice to taste, 
boil all fifteen minutes. Put in glass jars. 

Borden Sauce. 

Cabbage cut closely, two gallons; green tomatoes, one gallon; 
onions sliced, one dozen; ground tumeric, one ounce; black pepper, 
one ounce; ginger, one ounce; celery seed, one ounce; whole cloves, 
one ounce; white mustard seed, one ounce; three-fourth gill of salt; 
light brown sugar, three-fourths of a pound; vinegar, one gallon; 
mix all together and boil fifteen minutes. 

Ragan PicJdes. 

Two gallons of chopped cabbage, one of tomatoes, one dozen 
onions, one ounce of celery seed, one ounce of tumeric, one ounce 
of ginger, one ounce of cloves, pepper to the taste, one-half cup of 
salt, one pound of sugar, one gallon of vinegar; boil well to- 
gether twenty minutes. 

(Jhoio Chovxler. 

Two gallons of cut cabbage, one of green tomatoes, one dozen 
onions, one ounce of cloves, one ounce of whole black pepper. 



^ 



PICKLES OR RELISHES. 219 

one-fourth of a pound of white mustard seed, one-fourth of a gill 
of salt, one and a half pounds of brown sugar, one gallon of vine- 
gar; boil all together until tender. 

Hlgdon. 

Half a bushel of green tomatoes, twelve large onions, eight pep- 
pers, one cup of salt; chop and salt; let stand three hours; two 
tablespoonfuls of celery seed, two of cinnamon, two of cloves, two 
of mustard seed; then mix together and place in a stone crock; 
take one good quart of cider vinegar and two cups of brown sugar, 
and boil together, and pour over. 

Gherk'uis. 

Lay in boiling salt-water over night, then wipe dry, and to every 
layer of pickles put a layer of horse-radish, whole mustard and 
whole pepperg, one teacupful of sugar to a qviart of vinegar, pour 
over boiling hot. 

Mushroom Catsup. 

Break the mushrooms in small pieces, lay a layer of them in a 
jar, and sprinkle salt over them, repeat until you have salted all 
the mushrooms; let them lay three days, then boil them, strain 
them, squeezing them well, boil the liquor, add juice of one lemon, 
spices to suit your taste; when cold and clear add a little horse- 
radish, bottle and seal. 

Cold Tomato Catsup — No. 1. 

One peck of ripe tomatoes, seeds taken out, chopped fine, let 
drain; four bunches of celery, four roots of horse-radish, six green 
peppers with the seeds taken out, chop all fine, one cupful of 
chopped onions, half a cupful of white mustard, half a cupful of 
salt, two tablespoonfuls of black pepper, two tablespoonfuls of 
cinnamon, two tablespoonfuls of allspice, one cupful of sugar in 
two quarts of vinegar, boil down; let cool before pouring over. 

Cold Tomato Catsup — No. 2. 

One peck of ripe tomatoes, peeled and sliced, two roots of 



220 PICKLES OR RELISHES. 



horse-radish, grated, a small cupful of salt, one cupful of mustard 
seed, black and white mixed, two tablespoonfuls of black pepper, 
two red peppers with seeds, two or three tablespoonfuls of 
celery seed, one cupful of chopped onions, one teaspoonful of 
ground cloves, one teaspoonful of mace, one teaspoonful of 
cinnamon, one cupful of brown sugar, one cupful of masturtions, 
tliree pints of cider vinegar; let the tomatoes drain good. It can 
be made without the masturtions. 

PlcJded I'oiitatoes. 

Take red and yellow pear-shaped tomatoes, puncture with a 
needle, soak in salt-water twenty-four hours, pour off, wipe dry, 
lay in glass jars alternately with spices and cinnamon broken in small 
pieces, ginger root, horse-radish root, and two red peppers cut in small 
pieces. To a quart-jar, allow a teacupf ul of white sugar to a quart 
of vinegar, boil and pour over cool, screw down the covers tight, 
set in a cool, dark place. 

Tomato ^Soy. 

One peck of tomatoes, peeled and chopped, one cupful of sugar, 
one cupful of salt, half a cupful of whole black peppers, two ta- 
blespoonfuls of cloves, two tablespoonfuls of allspice, two red 
peppers cut fine, four large onions cut fine; boil all one hour, stir 
all the while, just before taking off add one quart of good cider- 
vinegar. 

Grape Catsup. 

One quart of grape juice, one pint of vinegar, one pound of su- 
gar, one tablespoonful of ground cloves, one of ground allspice, 
one teaspoonful of salt, two red peppers cut fine. 

Mangoes. 

Chop two large cabbages fine, sprinkle a little salt over it, put 
in a large bowl and let stand over night, cover with a plate, and 
set a weight on it. Cut pieces out of the stem ends of large red or 
green peppers, the size of a silver half-dollar, and with a round- 
pointed knife scrape out the pulp and juice, being careful not to 



PICKLES OR RELISHES. 221 

l)reak the peppers; put the cap into the cavity, and lay them in a 
jar; when you have enough put a plate on to keep them down; then 
cover with salt water, and let stand overnight; in the inorning put 
the cabbage in a bag made of thin but strong muslin, let it drain a 
short time, then put a weight on until the water is all pressed out, 
then add to the cabbage half a cup of grated horse-radish root, one 
tablespoonful of white mustard seed, three tablespoonfuls of celery 
seed, two small red peppers cut fine; mix well, and fill the pep- 
pers as full and as solid as possible without breaking, put the caps 
on; be careful to put each cap on the pepper it was cut from. Tie 
cord around to hold it in place, and pack in a jar. Take as much 
vinegar as you think it will require to cover them, and for each 
quart add half a pound of sugar, one gill of whole allspice, half a 
gill of whole cloves. Let it come to the boil, and pour over the 
peppers. Cover the top with sliced horse-radish root; cover, and 
put away. 

Tomato Pickles. 

Take one peck of green tomatoes, skin one dozen onions, sprin- 
kle them with salt, and let them stand over night. When drained, 
use the following s]iices: one and a half ounces of black pepper, 
one ounce of whole cloves, one ounce of yellow mustard seed, one 
ounce of allspice. Put them into the kettle, layer about, with the 
spices ; cover them with vinegar, and bnil fifteen minutes. 

Prime Pldde. 

Cabbage cut fine, two gallons; green tomatoes, one gallon; on- 
ions sliced, one dozen; tumeric, one ounce; celery seed, one ounce; 
whole allspice, one ounce; whole black popper, one ounce; ginger, 
one ounce; whole cloves, half an ounce; mustard seed, half pound; 
brown sugar, one and a half pounds; salt, one gill; vinegar, one 
gallon. Mix, and boil two hours. 

Wabint PirJdes. 

Take white walnuts before the shells begin to harden, allow half 
a cup of salt to a quart of water, make a strong brine, and pour 



222 PICKLES OR RELISHES. 

over the walnuts, let them stand four days, then put in the sun un- 
til they turn blacV; drain. Take quarter of a pound of mustard 
seed, one ounce of pepper, one ounce of cloves, one ounce of whole 
allspice, one cup of horse-radish broken into small pieces. Boil in 
two quarts of vinegar; cover close, let them remain three or lour 
weeks. Pour off the vinegar and use for catsup; bottle it and cover 
the walnuts again with cold vinegar. Put in glass jars; cover tight. 

Currant (Jatsup. 

Five pounds of currants — mash the fruit — three pounds of sugar, 
one pint of cider- vinegar, one tablespoonful of cloves, one table- 
spoonful of allspice, one teaspoonful of ground pepper, one table- 
spoonful of salt; boil two hours, stirring constantly. Seal, while 
hot, in glass jars. 

Indian Hill Citron Pickle. 

Slice the melon, lay it in vinegar and water overnight; pour off. 
To two pounds of fruit add one of sugar and one pint of vinegar; 
add mace, stick cinnamon, green ginger and lemon peel to suit the 
taste. Boil the syrup and spices well, then add the fruit and cook 
until soft. Put in small glass jars and seal. 

Pickled Plimis. 

Five pounds of fruit, two and one-half pounds of sugar, not 
quite a pint of vinegar; prick the plums with a needle to the stone, 
boil the vinegar and sugar to a syrup as thick as molasses, add 
cinnamon and cloves to the taste, then remove from the fire vmtil 
lukewarm, add the plums, and boil slowly until done. Put in 
small glass jars and seal. 

PicJded Grapes. 

Take ripe grapes, removing the imperfect and broken ones. 
Line an earthen jar with grape leaves, then fill with grapes. To 
two quarts of vinegar allow one pint of white sugar, half an ounce 
of ground cinnamon and a quarter of an ounce of cloves; tie in 
thin bags. Let the vinegar and spices boil for five minutes, then 
dd the sugar; let it come to a boil and when cold pour over the 



« 



A 



PICKLES OR RELISHES. 223 

grapes. If poured on while hot it shrivels them and spoils the ap- 
pearance of the pickles. Pickle cherries the same. 

Pickled Peaches. 

Two povmds of fruit, one pound of sugar, one teacupful of vin- 
egar; rub the peaches and prick them with a silver fork; boil the 
sugar and vinegar five minutes; when lukewarm add the peaches; 
(they will shrivel and the skin will break if put in boiling hot); 
cook slowly until soft enough to run the splint of a broom in, then 
lay a layer of peaches in the jar, a layer of cinnamon, alternating 
until the jar is filled. Pour over the syrup boiling hot; if not 
enough to cover, make a little more. Seal tight. 

S^ylced Peaches. 

Eight pounds of unpared peaches, four pounds of sugar; make 
a syrup of the sugar; put in a few peaches at a time. Cook them 
until the fork will enter them easily, then take them out and put 
in more fruit; when all are cooked put them into a jar. Boil down 
the syrup quite thick, add a pint of good vinegar, and pour over 
your fruit. Stick two or three cloves in each peach. 

Spiced Damsons or Plimis. 

Five and a half pounds of plums, three and a half pounds of 
sugar, one cup of vinegar. Prick the plums with a needle; boil 
the sugar to a syrup; when lukewarm add the plums and spices — 
one teaspoonful of each, whole cloves, cinnamon and allspice. 
Boil slowly until tender, then put in glass jars. Seal tight. 



-^-^^J^^^Tt^^ 



VEGETABLES. 



Select fresh vegetables, removing- bruises, rots, eyes and cores, 
so that they will present a nice appearance on the table. Let them 
lie in water until you are ready to put them on. Carefully exam- 
ine cabbages and lettuces. Insects of various kinds lie concealed 
among the leaves. Pick off all the outside leaves, wash and nnse 
through several waters and let lay in salt water a short time to 
bring out insects you have not been able to detect. 

Spanish TJisJi — (Jolache. 
Take four young squashes, peal and cut in small pieces, one 
dozen ears of corn cut off the cob; boil the squashes until almost 
done, then add the corn, a little parsley, butter the size of an egg, 
pepper and salt to taste, and boil ten minutes more. 

Spanish Dish — JJaked SqiKtsh. 

Take young round squashes, wash and take seeds out, in this 
space put a small piece of butter, pepper and salt. Put them in a 
pan inside the stove and bake until tender. Serve hot; to be 
eaten with a spoon. 

Spanish Dish — Carrots and Peas. 

Take young carrots, peel and cut in very small srjuares; one pint 
will be sufficient ; shell enough peas to fill a pint measure; boil 
the carrots and peas together and when done add apiece of butter 
the size of an egg; pepper and salt to taste. 

Baked Tomatoes. 
Fill a deep pan with ripe tomatoes, cut out a hole in the center 



il 



VEGETABLES. 225 



of each, season bread crumbs with butter, pepper and salt, moisten 
with a tablespoonful of cream, then fill the cavities. Put half a 
cupful of water in the pan to prevent burning. Bake a nice Ijrown 
and send to the table hot. 

Scalloped Totnatoes. 

Peel and slice tomatoes, sprinkle a little sugar over each layer 
of the tomatoes, put in a dish and cover with a layer of bread 
crumbs, some small pieces of butter, pepper and salt, alternate 
layers of bread crumbs and tomatoes until the dish is full; have 
crumbs on top. Bake one hour. 

Broiled Tomatoes — No. 1. 

Grease the gridiron with a little butter, set it over live coals. 
Take smooth flat tomatoes, wash clean and wipe dry, and set them 
on the gridiron with the stem side down. When this is brown turn 
and let cook until quite hot through. Place them on a hot dish. 
To be dressed, when eaten, with butter, pepper and salt. 

Broiled Tomatoes — No. 2. 

Take nice round tomatoes, cut them in two, put them in a pan 
with half a cup of water , salt, pepper, and sugar them and lay a small 
lump of butter on each tomato; cover them, when almost done 
sprinkle over them some cracker dust ; take the lid ofp and let 
brown. 

Boasted T'omatoes. 

Select firm, smooth, round tomatoes, cut a thin slice off the top 
(if each tomato, set them in the pan with cut end up, sprinkle over 
each tomato a little salt, pepper and sugar; lay a lump of butter on 
each tomato and dust over with flour, add half a cup of water and 
set in the oven of the stove. If the water cooks away add a little 
more. When tender and a nice brown, serve. 

Stewed Tonuitoes. 

Pour hot water over them and remove the skins; cut in small 
15 



226 VEGETABLES. 



pieces, stew half an hour, add butter, pepper and salt, and when done 
a few bread crumbs; sugar to taste. 

Fried Tomatoes. 

Slice tomatoes quite thick, pepper and salt them, roll in flour 
and fry in equal parts of butter and lard. Mix a little flour and 
butter; stir into the pan with a small cup of milk. 

Sliced Tomatoes. 

Slice tomatoes after dinner for tea, sprinkle over them a little 
salt, pepper and sugar; let stand; just before serving add a little 
vinegar, not too strong. 

French Mayonaise Tomatoes. 

Peel and slice with a sharp knife. Place them upon ice to be- 
come thoroughly chilled. Just before they are served pour over 
them the following dressing: Yolks of three eggs, two salt spoon- 
fuls of salt, four mustard spoonfuls of made mustard, a tablespoon- 
ful of sugar, add a cup of cream, half a cup of vinegar; boil for 
five minutes, stirring constantly. When cold it will thicken. 

Mayonaise Tomatoes. 

Select firm, ripe, round tomatoes of equal size. Peel them witli 
ra thin, sharp knife (do not scald them to peel). Cut each tomato 
into thick slices, but do not separate the slices, so that the appear- 
ance of the whole tomato may be preserved. Place them upon 
jce to become thoroughly chilled. Just before the salad is to be 
served arrange them upon a bed of crisp lettuce and put a spoon- 
ful of thick mayonaise sauoe upon each. 

Peas. 

Peas are best when fresh and not shelled until ready to be 
boiled. Cook in as little water as you can withont burning them. 
Sprinkle a little sugar over them and a little salt. When done 
let boil dry, and dress with a little butter, a half cup of cream or a 
cup of milk. Dust a little flour over and boil one minute and serve. 



VEGETABLES. 22^ 



Soda will restore the green color. Half a teaspoonful will answer 
for a peck. 

Peel, cut in thin slices, and boil until tender; if not dry, drain; 
mash, and dress with butter, pepper, salt and cream or milk. 
White turnips will boil in half an hour; yellow ones, two hours. 

Beets. 
Boil in the skin; when done, drain, slice in a pan, sprinkle a 
little sugar over, salt and pepper, a good sized lump of butter, twt) 
or three teaspoonfuls of vinegar, a little more if weak. Dust a 
little flour over, cover with boiling water, let boil fifteen minutes 
and serve. 

Parsyiijts. 

Wash, peel and split; boil until tender in a little salt water. 
Drain and brown in a little lard and butter. 

Onions. 

Boil in a little milk and water, add a little salt. When done 
pour off and dress with a little cream or milk, salt, pepper and butter; 
dust over a little flour to thicken; boil a few minutes and serve. 
Old onions require two hours, and must have the water changed 
three times before dressing, 

Musltroonis. — 7'o distinyuish from poisonous Funyi. 

Sprinkle a little salt on the spongy part or gills of the mushroom 
to be tried; if they turn yellow they are poisonous, if black they are 
good; allow the salt to act before you decide to use them. False 
mushrooms have a watery cap or else fragments of membrane adher- 
ing to the upper surface ; they are also heavy and emerge from a vulva 
or bag; they grow in tufts or clusters in woods on the stumps of trees. 
False mushrooms have an astringent, disagreeable taste, and when 
cut they turn blue; they are moist on the surface and generally of a 
rose or orange color. The gills of the true mushroom are of a pinky 
red, changing to a liver color; the flesh is white, the stem is white, 
solid and cylindrical. 



•>28 VEGETABLES. 



Boiled Mushrooms. 

Cut off the stems, scald them and peel the skins off the mush- 
rooms; butter the gridiron and lay them on, the hollow side up; 
season each with a little butter, pepper and salt; cook over hot 
coals a few minutes without turning; serve hot with a little more 
butter. 

yried Mushrooms. 

Cut off the stems, scald them and peel off the skins, put them 
in a hot skillet with a little butter, season with pepper and salt, 
and continue stirring until they are a nice brown. 

Boiled Huhhard Squash. 

Pare and cut into long- slices, put into the pot with the points 
down; boil tender, and drain; mash and dress with butter, salt and 
a little cream. 

Baked Squash. 

Pare and cut into squares, lay on a greased plate, sprinkle over 
a little sugar; salt and lay on each piece a little lump of liutter. 
Bake until tender and a nice brown. 

Summer Squashes. 

Pare, quarter, boil tender, drain perfectly dry; dress with salt, 
pepper, and drawn butter poured over them, and set in the oven to 
lir(^wn; or, if you wish, you can add cream and mash them. 

SuccotasJi. 

Put lima l)eans on to boil soon after breakfast. Have twice as 
much corn as l^eans. Cut the corn off the cob and put it with 
the beans half an hour before you are ready to serve them. Dress 
with a little butter, penper and salt, and half a cup of cream or 
milk. 

Striiaj Beaus. 

Get them young and crisjjy, bi-eak off lioth ends, and stiing them. 
(,'Ut in small pieces, boil in salt water until tender, drain, ancl sea- 



VEGETABLES. 22!» 



son with pepper and salt; dress with a little butter and cream; milk 
will answer. 

jSweet Cw)i — N'o. 1. 

Cut the corn from the cob, scrape it, add a cup of water and put 
on to boil; put in a little salt, and one teaspoonful of sugar; cook 
twenty minutes; sprinkle a little flour over, and dress with a little 
butter, and a couple of tablespoonf uls of cream. 

lSv)eet Corn — N^o. 2. 

Corn is sweetest when boiled on the cob. Have just enougli 
water to cover, with a little sugar and salt sprinkled in. Cover, 
and l)oil from fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Egg Plant. 

The long and purple is best. The next best is the round kind, 
with prickles on the stem. 

Fried Egg Plant. 

Cut into slices half an inch thick, and lay into salt water one 
hour; wipe drj^ and season with pepper and salt; dip the slices into 
the yolk of an egg and grated bread crumbs or cracker dust. Fry 
in butter a nice brown. 

Egg Plant. 

Slice, pare and parboil, mash and season with salt, pepper and 
butter; add one egg and a tablespoonf ul of flour to a plant; make 
into small cakes and fry in butter. 

Oyster Plant. 

Scra])e the roots in milk to prevent discoloring, and make a bat- 
ter by adding two eggs, salt and butter and flour enough to make 
it thick. Fry in hot lard. 

Erhd Oi/ster Plant. 

Parboil the oyster plant; scrape off the outside, cut in slices, 
dip into beaten egg and cracker dust; fry in butter until brown. 



230 VEGETABLES. 



*3fock Oysters. 

One dozen ears of grated corn, half a cup of cream, two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, four eggs, a little salt. Fry in butter. 

Cor7i Oysters. 

Six ears of corn, grated, three eggs, one tablespoonful of flour,, 
salt and pepper. Fry in butter. 

Boiled Cauliflower. 

Select close white cauliflower. Take off the outside leaves and 
cut the stock ofE flat at the bottom. Let it lie in salt-water an 
hour before cooking, then boil fifteen or twenty minutes in milk 
and water; put a little salt in the water; when tender, drain and 
place upright in a dish; serve with plain melted butter, or put a 
small piece of butter and a little salt in a cup of cream; put on 
the stove a few minutes before serving; pour over it. Or, a cup of 
melted butter, the juice of a lemon and a tablespoonful of made 
mustard. 

Boiled Cabbage. 

Take off the loose leaves, cut in quarters to the heart of the cab- 
bage and boil it one hour with a teaspoonful of salt. It is better 
boiled with beef, as the 1)roth improves the flavor of the cabbage. 
Scald your cabbage before putting it on to prevent its smelling 
when cooking. 

Ladies' Cabbage. 

Boil a firm white cabbage fifteen minutes, changing the water 
then for more from the boiling teakettle; when tender, drain and 
set aside until perfectly cold. Chop fine, and add two beaten eggs, 
a tablespoonful of butter, pepper, salt, three tablespoonf uls of cream 
or rich milk. Stir all well together, and bake in a buttered pud- 
ding dish until brown. Serve very hot. 

Stuffed Cabbage. 

Take a large fresh cabbage, cut out the heart and fill the va- 
cancy with stuffiing made of cooked chicken or veal chopped very 



VEGETABLES. 231 



fine and highly seasoned, and rolled into balls with the yolks of 
two eggs. Tie the cabbage firmly together and boil in a covered 
])ot for two hours or until tender. 

(J old Slaw — No 1. 

Cut the cabbage with a slaw knife, put in a dish, sprinkle salt 
and pepper over it; make a dressing of one pint of vinegar, three 
eggs, one teaspoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of mixed|mustard, 
one tablespoonful of butter; let it come to a boil and add one tea- 
spoonful of flour mixed with water; stir constantly after putting 
on the stove, or the eggs will curdle. 

Cold Slaw— No. 2. 

One-half cup of sour cream, one-half pint of vinegar, two eggs, 
salt aTid pepper, one teaspoonful of sugar. Beat all well together; 
pour it into a heated pan with a lump of butter; stir quickly, and 
wlfen boiling pour over the cabbage and let it stand until cold. 

(Jucmnhers. 

Peel and cut in thin slices, salt them and let stand a couple 
hours, then pour off the water, pepper and pour vinegar over, add 
a little sugar to the vinegar and see that it is not too strong. 

Macaro)iL 

Put half a pound of macaroni in boiling water; add a little salt; 
boil slowly until tender. Have ready the following sauce: half a 
cup of cream, the yolks of three eggs, a small piece of butter, a 
teaspoonful of flour mixed smooth with a little of the cream; stir in 
the macaroni and mix well together. Put into your dish a layer of 
macaroni, then a layer of cheese, until your dish is full. Brown 
and serve. It can be made with the yolk of one egg and half a 
cup of cream. 

Oyster 3Iacaroni. 

Boil half a pound of macaroni in water; add a little salt; when 
tender, drain; lay a layer of macaroni in the dish, season with h 
little pepper; lay a layer of oysters, season with butter, pepper and 



232 VEGETABLES. 



salt, alternating- until the dish is full; pour over half a cuj) of oys- 
ter broth warm; sprinkle grated cracker over and bake. 

Boiled Macaroni. 

Put half a pound of macaroni to soak two hours; boil in a Httle 
salt water until almost tender, then add a pint of chicken broth — 
less will do — half a cup of cream or milk, and the yolks of three 
hard-boiled eggs; boil until there is sufficient broth to serve. 

7'o Cook Spinac/i. 
Wash your spinach well and shake the water from it, put it in- 
to a stew-pan without water; after it has stewed for some time take 
it up and drain all the liquor it has made from it, then put it into a 
cloth and squeeze all the water from it; cut it up as fine as possi- 
ble, and return to the stew-pan. Dress with butter, salt, pepper, 
half a cup of cream, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Serve with 
hard-boiled eggs sliced and laid on top; or poached eggs. 

Asparagus Boiled. 
Choose bunches of asparagus which have been cut fresh and the 
heads straight, the ends white, and not too hard. Aspara- 
gus is tender very young; green to the ends of the stick; break off 
the hard part, and use only the tender; cut into small pieces and 
boil until tender in a little salt water, then let the water boil down 
until there is just enough to dress the asparagus. Dress with but- 
ter, salt, pepper, dust over a little flour, and add a tablespoonful 
and a half of good vinegar. Time for cooking, fifteen to twenty 

minutes. 

-ffominy. 

The large grained hominy recjuires one pint of water to half a 
cup of hominy. Pour the water over it boiling hot; let it soak over 
night; in the morning add one pint of chicken broth, season with 
salt and pepper, and cook until tender; then add to hard-boiled 
eggs grated or chopped fine, a little bvitter, three tal)lespoonfuls of 
cream or milk. It is very nice prepared with good beef broth. 
There should be verv little broth around it when done. 



VEGETABLES. 233 



Baked Hominy. 

Two cupfuls of cold boiled hominy, (small kind) allow two cups of 
milk, a heaping teaspoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of white su- 
gar, a little salt, and three eggs. Beat the eggs very light — yolks 
and whites separately. Work the yolks first into the hominy, 
alternating with the butter. When thoroughly mixed, soften 
the batter gradually with the milk; be careful to leave no 
lumps in the hominy. Lastly stir in the whites and bake in a l)ut- 
tered pudding-dish until light and firm, and delicately browned. 

Carrots. 

Wash clean,scrape andboil in slightly salted boiling water until ten- 
der. Dress with a little butter and cream, or good milk. 

Baked Beans and Pork. 

Soak your beans over night; the small white ones are best for 
baking. Next morning put a piece of pork into the kettle and 
l)oil; put in the beans and boil until the skins crack when they 
come in contact with the air. Take them out, and have a deep 
earthen dish, put the pork in the centre, cut the rind in squares, 
sprinkle over the top one tablespoonful of sugar; put the beans all 
around, press them together, bake all day and let them stay in 
over night, baking full twenty-four hours. They will come out in 
the morning with a flavor that will be appetizing. 

/She/ led Beans. 

Put them on in cold water, without salt; let them boil slowly 
until half done, then drain and fill up the pot with fresh boiling 
water; into this second water put the salt, and boil until tender. 
Dress with butter, cream or good milk. Lima beans may be 
cooked the same. 

2\) Boil Artie] tokes. 

Remove the stalks close to the vegetables, wash clean and peel 
them, put them into boiling water, add a little salt, and cook one 
hour, if medium sized, or longer, if large. Dress with butter, salt 



2:34 VEGETABLES. 



and pepper, and serve hot. .Jerusalem artichokes will take twen- 
ty minutes from the time the water boils to become tender. Dress 

the same. 

Dandelions. 

Cutoff the leaves, pick over carefully and wash thoroughly; put 
into boiling water and boil half an hour; drain and cover with 
boiling water, add a little salt and boil until tender. When done, 
drain in a sieve or colander, and dress with butter, pepper, salt and 
a little vinegar. They can be boiled with old ham or corned beef. 

Horse- Had ish. 
Wash clean, scrape it with a sharp knife, grate fine and cover 
with good vinegar; add a teaspoonfnl of sugar to the vinegar. 

Boiled Horse- Radish. 

Split the roots and cut them into rather small pieces. Boil them 
until tender in slightly salted water with a tablespoonful of vine- 
gar added to it. Serve in a hot dish with drawn butter sauce 
poured over them. 

Celery. 

Wash, scrape, trim off green tops, and lay aside for seasoning 

soups, vinegar, &c., the rank green stalks. Lay the better parts 

in cold water until wanted for the table. Put into celery stands or 

tall glasses. 

Boiled Celery. 

Cut off the green parts and boil the celery gently in slightly 
salted boiling water until tender, leaving the sauce-pan uncovered. 
When done, drain well and serve on toast, with cream or drawn 
butter sauce poured over all. 

Cranberry Sauce. 

One quart of cranberries, add one cup of water, and one pound 
of sugar; boil fifteen minutes. 

Youn(j Radishes. 
Select nice red ones, wash clean and serve in glasses with a lit- 
tle cracked ice. 



VEGETABLES. 235 



I 



Parsley. 

Pick and wash young parsley, shake it in a cloth to drain, and 
spread on a large plate to dry. Use to garnish dishes, and cut fine 
to flavor soups and broths. 

An excellent icay to cook Rice. 

Pick and wash your rice well, then put it on to boil in cold wa- 
ter, with which keep it covered constantly. When the grains be- 
gin to burst, put it into a colander and pour cold water over it. 
This washes away the superfluous starch, and leaves the rice loose 
and flaky, and it is much more palatable than that cooked the old 
way. 

Stewed Okra. 

Cut it and put it into a stew-pan; for a quart, add a cup of hot 
water, a tablespoonful of butter, into which has beer; rubbed an 
even teaspoonful of flour; salt and pepper to taste; cover the st'^w- 
pan, shake it occasionally, and stew until tender; serve in a hoi 
covered dish. Boil in a porcelain kettle; iron discolors it. 

Fried Okra. 

Boil, drain well, and mash smooth, season with butter, pepper 
and salt, and stir it into an egg batter. Fry as fritters. 

Sea Kale. 

Pick it over carefully, tie up in bunches, and let it lie in cold 
water an hoiir, put into salted boiling water and cook about half an 
hour; drain, and dress with butter, salt and pepper, or lay it on 
toasted bread and pour drawn butter over it. 

Rice Croquetts. 

Half a cup of rice, one pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
three eggs, a little grated lemon peel, one tablespoonful of melted 
butter, a saltspoonful of salt; soak the rice three hours in enough 
warm water to cover it. Drain almost dry, and pour in the milk; 
stew until the rice is very tender, add sugar, butter and salt, and 



236 VEGETABLES. 



simmer ten minutes. Whisk the eggs to a froth, and cautiously 
take the sauce-pan from the fire while you whip them into the mix- 
ture. Return to the stove, and stir while they thicken, allowing 
them to boil. Remove the saucepan and add the grated lemon 
peel, then turn out upon a well greased dish to cool ; when cold 
and stiff, flour your hands, and roll into oval or pear-shaped balls ; 
dip in beaten egg, then in fine cracker crumbs, and fry in half lard 
and butter. 

Hominy Croquetts. 

To a small cupful of cold boiled hominy add a tablespoonful of 
melted ])utter, and stir hard, moistening by degrees with a cupful of 
milk, beating to a soft light paste, adding a teaspoonful of white 
sugar, and lastly two well beaten eggs. Roll into balls with floured 
hands; dip in beaten egg^ then in cracker crumbs, and fry in hot 
lard and butter mixed. 

N'etc Potatoes. 

Scrape and wash new potatoes, put on to boil in boiling water. 
^Vhen done, drain, and set them on top of the stove a few minutes 
to steam. Dress with half a cup of cream, butter the size of an Qg,g.> 
add salt and pepper, dust over with a little flour, boil a few min- 
utes, stirring to prevent burning. 

2^0 Boil Old Potatoes. 

Pare them and put into boiling water until half done; then pour 
off", and renew by pouring more boiling water over them; add a little 
salt; when barely done pour off the water, and let steam ten minutes 
with the lid partly off and a cloth laid over. Very mealy or large 
potatoes, if put on in boiling water, will fall to pieces on the out- 
side, while the centre is raw. Drain when half done, and add cold 
water. Waxy varieties are best put on in boiling water. 
Poast Potatoes. 

Wash clean and cut defective parts out, and roast with the skins 
on. Another way : Wash, peel, rub with salt, set in the oven to 
l)ake. Potatoes are very nice washed and peeled and roaste<l in 
the pan with fresh beef, basting often with the drippings. 



J 



VEGETABLES. 237 



3fashed Potatoes. 

Peel and boil; when done, drain perfectly dry, mash in the ket- 
tle, dress with butter, cream or milk, and salt, and beat until white 
and very light. 

Potato Piifs. 

Two cupfuls of cold mashed potatoes, stir in two tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter, beating to a white cream. Then add two eggs 
whipped very light, one teacupful of cream or milk, and salt to 
the taste. Beat all well and pour into a deep dish. Bake in a 
(|uick oven until it is nicely l)rowned. 

Potato Molls. 

One cup of mashed potatoes, one cup of white sugar, one cup of 
flour, one cup of yeast; let it rise over night, then add a cup of 
butter, a little salt, four well beaten eggs, and flour sufficient to 
make into a loaf; let it rise again, then roll out, cut round and 
fold together. Let them get light ; it will only take a few minutes. 
Bake fifteen minutes. They look like little half moon pies. 

Potatoes a la Creme. 

Put into a sauce pan two ounces of butter, a tablespoonful of flour, 

salt and pepper ; stir these uji together and add half a cup of cream; 

set it on the fire and stir continually until it boils. Cut some sliced 

])otatoes tliat have just been boiled and put them into the mixture. 

Boil all together and serve them very hot. Cold boiled potatoes 

are not good. 

Potato Croquets. 

Boil and mash while hot, and add a piece of butter the shape of 
an e^g., a tablespoonful of white sugar, two well beaten eggs, a 
little salt. Beat well together and make into small balls the size 
of an egg. When cold, dip them into a mixture of raw eggs and 
bread crumbs. Drop for a minute or two into hot lard and brown. 
Serve. A little grated ham mixed with the potatoes is an improve- 
ment to them — three or four tablespoonfuls. 



238 VEGETABLES. 



>Stif^'ed Potatoes. 

Take large, fine potatoes, and bake until soft; cut a round piece 
off the top of each, scrape out the inside carefully so as not to 
break the skin, setting aside the empty caps and covers; thin the 
potato that was taken from the inside very smoothly, working into 
it, while it is hot, one teaspoonful of cream or butter for each 
potato, and seasoning with salt and pepper and a teaspoon- 
ful of grated cheese for each; work soft by gradually adding; 
when very hot, stir in one beaten egg for six potatoes and give one 
boil. Fill the skins with the mixture, replace the caps and return 
them to the oven for three minutes. Serve hot, with the caps upper- 
most. Lay in a deep dish, on a napkin. The egg may be omitted 
and double the quantity of cheese used. 

/Saratoga Potatoes. 

If they are to be eaten at breakfast, they should be peeled the 
evening before, and shaved into pieces the thickness of an old-fash- 
ioned wafer, and left in water over night; in the morning drain 
them perfectly dry from the water, and have ready a kettle of boil- 
ing lard, into which drop a few pieces at a time; when nicely 
browned on one side, turn them, and when both sides are brown, 
take them out with a skimmer, and send them to the table hot. 

Pried Potatoes. 

Take cold boiled potatoes, cut in thin slices; put into a hot skil- 
let with butter and lard, and season with salt and pepper. Stir 
frequently until they are brown. 

Broiled Potatoes. 

Parboil large potatoes, peel and cut them into thick slices; ' 

broil the slices on a gridiron over a clear fire until brown on both 
sides. Serve on a hot dish with pepper, salt and butter. « 

Potato Eggs. 
Mash five or six well boHed potatoes, add salt, one tablespoon- 4 

ful of melted butter, one cup of cream; work well, and when free 



VEGETABLES. 239 



from lumps add two well beaten eggs, a cup of finely minced 
ham; make the mixture into egg-shaped balls and roll in flour; 
when cold fry in butter or lard, turning them carefully so as not 
to spoil the shape; when a nice brown, serve. 

French Potatoes. 

One quart of cold boiled potatoes cut into dice; one pint of 
stock, one teaspoonful of made mustard, one tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of 
lemon juice, salt and pepper; season the potatoes with salt and pep- 
per and add the stock; cover and boil twelve minutes; add the 
lemon juice, butter, mustard and parsley, and simmer two minutes 
longer. 

Lyonaise Potatoes. 

Put a large lump of butter into a sauce pan and let it melt; then 
add one small onion chopped fine or sliced very thin; when it is 
browned nicely, but not scorched, put in slices of cold boiled po- 
tatoes, and salt and pepper well; let the potatoes cook until they 
are also a light brown. Serve while hot. A little parsley chopped 
fine may be added if you like the flavor. 

Potato Scallops. 
Boil and mash the potatoes soft with a little cream or milk, add 
a tablespoonful of butter for every pint of potatoes, salt and pep- 
per to the taste; beat light. Fill some patty pans or buttered 
scallop shells with the mixture and brown in the oven when you 
have stamped a pattern upon the top of each. Glaze while hot 
with the butter and serve in the shells. 

French Saratoga Potatoes. 
Cut raw potatoes into small quarters, and then let them stand in 
cold water awhile. Wipe dry and put into boiling fat, and stir 
occasionally. When nearly done, take out in a colander, return to 
the hot fat, and in half a minute they will be beautifully browned. 
Turn into the colander again to drain, salt and stir them, and serve 
at once. The second time makes them swell. 



340 VEGETABLES. 



Stceet Potatoes. 

Peel and put on in just enough boiling water to cover them, add 
a teaspoonful of salt and a tablespoonful of sugar to a quart of po- 
tatoes; when almost done boil dry and dress with a tablespoonful 
of butter and a cup of cream; dust over a little flour, boil one min- 
ute and serve. Another way: Boil them the same way; when done 
lay in a pan, and spread a little butter over them; set in the oven 
of the stove until a nice brown and serve. 

Potato Cakes. 

One coffee cup of mashed potatoes, one cup of sugar, one cup of 
yeast, three eggs well beaten, one teaspoonful of salt; put in flour 
enough for a soft batter; set over night; in the morning add a half 
cupful of melted butter before kneading up; let it rise again and 
make out into pans. 

Piscut't Ah P'roinage. 

Take one pound of soda biscuit, pour over them a sufficient 
(juantity of chicken broth or any delicate stock, even milk may be 
used, to thoroughly soak them, then place a layer of these crack- 
ers in a deep earthen dish, breaking them as little as possible in 
so doing; scatter over them a layer, about as thick as the crackers 
themselves, of grated Parmesan cheese; lay upon this a half dozen 
lumps or so of the sweetest of butter, then a layer of crackers, an- 
other of cheese, with butter in order, until the dish is filled. Pour 
over the whole a teacupful or more, sufficient to cover it, of well 
seasoned stock or chicken broth. Bake half an hour in a hot oven. 
It should come forth delicately brown on top and be served very 
hot. It is by many persons thought to be more delicate than mac- 
aroni treated in tlie same way. 

Hoir to Tell a (rood Potato. 

To distinguish a good from a poor potato, take a sound one, pay 
no attention to the outside appearance, but divide it into two parts 
with a sharp knife and examine the exposed inner surface. If 



I 



VEGETABLES. 241 



I 



there is much water or juice that a slight pressure would seeming- 
ly cause to fall off in drops, you may be assured it will be "soggy" 
after it is boiled. That is evidence of a poor potato, and don't you 
buy it. The following are requisite qualities of a good potato : 
When cut in two, the color should be a yellowish white; if it is a 
deep yellow it will not cook well. There must be a considerable 
amount of moisture, though not enough to collect in drops and 
fall off, even with moderate pressure. Rub the two pieces to- 
gether, and if it is good a white froth will appear around the 
edges and also upon the two surfaces after they are separated. 
This signifies the presence of a proper quantity of starch. The 
more froth the more starch, and consequently the better potato, 
while the less there is the poorer it will cook. The quantity of 
the starchy element may also be judged by the more or less ready 
adherence of the two jjarts. If the adherence is sufficient for one 
piece to hold the other up, the fact is evidence of a good article. 
These are the experiments usually made by experts when buying 
good potatoes, and are the best tests that can be given, short of 
boiling, but even they are by no means infallible. 




16 




fSdSHiadHkij^jSHridjiiieie^ZS/iijd.^^ 



JELLIES, JAMS, PI^ESEI^VES, &C., 



The process of all jelly making is materially the same. Cook 
the fruit in a porcelain or granite kettle, and stir with a wooden or 
silver spoon, iron and tin utensils injure both taste and color. If 
a brass kettle is used, be particular to scour it thoroughly with hot 
salt and vinegar just before using, and remove the contents directly 
on taking from the fire. When the fruit is well softened, with or 
without the addition of water, according to its nature, turn it into a 
large three-cornered bag, that has been rung out of hot water. The 
hag may be made of either coarse linen, cotton or flannel and mvist be 
cstout as well as coarse. Suspend this bag of hot fruit over an earthen 
bowl or jar, and if convenient, in a warm place; leave it to drip 
for twelve hours. This does away with all the nuisance of squeez- 
ing and the bag being suspended over night the jelly will 
only take a little while in the morning to complete. When strained, 
measure the juice, weigh a pound of sugar to each pint, and be 
particular about it too; don't "guess" if you want to make good 
jelly; but if you prefer to measure instead of weigh, use a heap- 
ing pint of sugar for every pint of juice, and if the fruit is very 
sour, make the latter measure very scant. Put the juice on, then 
add the sugar, boil fast for fifteen or twenty minutes, remove the 
scum as soon as it rises take a little out in a saucer to test it, when 
cool draw a spoon gently through the centre; if a tliin skin is form- 
ed, it will wrinkle and is done. Pour as soon as possible into the 
moulds, as the jelly will form almost immediately, and the quicker 
it can be transferred the clearer it will be. Dip each mould into 
cold water before filling, that the form may turn out nicely, and it' 



JELLIES. 243 

glass is used, set it on a cloth dipped in cold or lukewarm water, 
and vise a silver spoon while fiUino-. Keep the cloth cold by fre- 
quent dipping, and you will never crack a single glass, even if the 
juice shpuld be boiling hot. The smaller quantity you boil at a 
time the lighter the jelly will be. There are three distinct ways 
of making jelly. The first I have given. Second: To two tinfuls 
of juice take one tinful and a half of sugar, a lump of alum the 
size of a small hickory nut; when it comes to the boil, skim; when- 
ever it rolls over thick it is done. These I have tried with success; 
my jelly is very light and not too firm. The third I have not tried, 
but think it equally as good, for excellent housekeepers recommend 
it. Third: Boil the juice fast for twenty minutes, skim it well, 
then add the sugar, and when it is dissolved the jelly will fall from 
the spoon in flakes; if it does not, then let it boil for five minutes, 
but it will seldom be necessary; strain the jelly, while 1:)oiling hot, 
through a thin bag into a pitcher, hold the bottom of the bag with 
a fork and twist the top, but not too tight and close, if you want 
your jelly to be bright and clear. Pour as soon as possible into 
the moulds, as the jelly will form almost immediately. Dip each 
mould into cold water before filling. 

Crab A2)2)le Jelly. • 

Stem and remove the core, wash, and boil in water enough to 
cover tliem until perfectly soft, then strain and allow one pound of 
sugar to each pint of juice. The juice of one lemon to each quart 
of juice improves it. Add the lemon juice a few minutes before 
it is done. The juice of some lemons turns bitter if boiled long. 
It will jelly in ten or fifteen minutes quicker than any other fruit. 
The smaller quantity you make at a time the lighter your jelly 
will be. I never take less than a pint of juice, or more than two. 
When the jelly is done the bubbles boil, and do not break, but 
roll over. Make according to one of the following directions. 
Alum improves jelly for those who like it thick and with no firm- 
ness. 



244 JELLIES. 

Currant Jelly. 

Red and white currants in equal quantities make a jelly of ex- 
quisite color. Leave them on the stems, pick them over, taking 
out the leaves or anything that may adhere to them. Put them on 
in enough water to cover, let them boil until soft, stirring well 
every few minutes to keep them from burning. Strain, and allow 
one pound of sugar to a pint of juice. 

Blackberry Jelly. 
To two tinfuls of juice, add one tinful and a half of sugar, a lump of 
alum the size of a small hickory nut. When it comes to the boil 
skim. Whenever it rolls over thick, it is done. 

Cranberry Jelly. 
Stew the cranberries until they are tender, then pour into a 
jelly bag and let it drip over night; allow one pound of sugar to 
each pint of juice; put on the juice, then add the sugar, and stir 
until thoroughly dissolved. 

Raspberry Jelly. 

Mash the berries, strain, and allow one pound of sugar to a pint of 
juice. Raspberries, to jelly well, should be mixed with a third their 
quantity of currants. However, I have had very nice jelly with 
just the raspberries, and prefer the red raspberry to any other jelly. 

Grape Jelly. 

Select your grapes just as they turn to ripen; wash and pick. 
Put on in your preserving kettle, if not brass, and cover with wa- 
ter; boil until tender, strain, and take one pound of sugar to a pint 
of juice. I hope the day will come when we will never see a brass 
kettle in the parsonage. 

Apple Jelly. 

The pippin or bell-flower is the best. Pare, core, and quarter 
them, cover with water, add a little lemon peel, boil until soft, 
strain, and to every pint of juice add one pound of sugar, and al- 
low the juice of one lemon to a quart of juice. 



JELLIES. 245 

Wild Plum Jelly. 

The late wild plums make a jelly that can scarcely be surpassed 
either in appearance or flavor. Boil soft in water enough to almost 
cover them; strain, and take one pound of sugar to a pint of juice. 
Make in small quantities. 

Quince Jelly. 

Wash the quinces clean, take the parings of the quinces, put 
them on in enough cold water to cover them, and boil until they 
are soft, strain, taKe one pound of sugar to a pint of juice. Make 
marmalade or preserves of the quinces. 

Peach Jelly. 

Peaches are not to be relied on. It will require the juice of a 
lemon to every pint of peach juice, and the jelly may or may not 
be firm, according to the quality and condition of the peaches; if 
it fails to jelly you will have a rich syrup that is equally good, and 
can afford the risk. To one pint of juice take a pound of sugar; 
wash the peaches clean, seed, and boil in water enough to cover 
until soft, strain, and make the way you prefer. 

Gooseberry Jelly. 

Stew green gooseberries in a little water until soft, strain, and 
take one pound of sugar to a pint of juice; make according to di- 
rections. 



JAMS. 

In making jams the fruit should be fully ripe, fresh and sound, 
and perfectly clean ; the sugar broken, not crushed ; if you want 
the jelly clear, the best sugar is the cheapest. Inferior sugar is 
wasted in the scum, and a sufficient amount of sugar must be boiled 



246 JAMS. 

in the fruit, or it will not keep; and too much sugar will destroy 
the natural flavor of the fruit. The quantity must depend on the 
kind of fruit, and there is no economy in stinting the sugar. Your 
fruit will boil away that much more. Your jam will be seedy, and 
have very little jelly in it, and much darker. If your kettle is brass 
it must be perfectly bright and clean, and if set flat upon the fire,, 
watch carefully and stir constantly to prevent its burning at the 
bottom. When done, put in glass jars; if there is any sign of fer- 
mentation it can be seen. Warm over at once; delays are danger- 
ous, and all may be lost. When your jam is cool, cover; cut a 
piece of white paper to fit the jar, wet with the white of an egg 
and lay over it, and cover with another paper. Gum arable dis- 
solved in water will answer as well as the white of egg, if you wish 
to practice economy. Look at your jams every week or two for 
the first two months, to see if they are keeping. Keep them in a 
cool, dry place where they will have some air. A damp place will 
make the fruit mould, and heat will make it ferment. 

Strawberry Jam. 

Allow three-fourths of a pound of sugar to one pound of fruit;, 
mash the berries, put on in a preserving kettle, and boil fifteen 
minutes; add the sugar; remove the scum as it rises, and stir con- 
stantly until done. Test it by taking a little out in a saucer, let it 
cool, and draw a spoon gently through the centre; if a thin skin 
has formed it will wrinkle, and is done. A pint of currant juice 
to three quarts of berries improves it. 

Rasphernj Ja')n. 
Allow a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit; mash the berries, 
put on in a preserving kettle, and boil fifteen minutes; add the 
sugar and skim off the scum as it rises. Boil until done, testing it 
the same as strawberry jam. One pint of the currant juice to 
three of the fruit makes it very nice. Stir continually until done. 

Blackberry Jam. 
Allow three-fourths of a pound of sugar to one pound of fruit; 



JAMS. 247 

inash the berries, put on in a preserving kettle and l)oil fifteen 
minutes; add the sugar, remove the scum as it rises, and stir con- 
stantly until done. 

Grape and Gooseherri/ Jam. 

Stew the ben-ies in a little water, jiress through a coarse sieve, 
then return to the kettle and allow one jiound of sugar to one 
pound of fruit ; boil until done. Pour in jars or bowls and cover 
as directed for other jams. 

Pine-apple Jam. 

Peel pine-aj3ples, cut all the black specks out, grate on a coarse 
grater; allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of 
pine-apple. Boil until clear from forty to fifty minutes. Put in 
glass jars and seal. 



PF(_ESERVES. 

Preseri'ed Peaches. 

Take any nice peaches that will not cook to pieces; pare them 
and take out the seeds; drop them in cold water as you peel them 
to keep them from coloring. To two pounds of fruit take two of 
sugar; moisten with half a pint of water; let it boil until it is the 
consistency of thick molasses, then drop in the fruit slowly, a few 
at a time, so that it will not stop the boiling, until all are in; when 
the scum rises, take off; when the fruit is cooked it is done. 

Quince Preserves. 

Pare and core the quinces, and cut into halves or quarters as suits 
the size of your jars, drop into cold water as you pare them. Put 
them on in a little cold water, let them cook gently until you can 
just stick a fork into them; keep them covered while cooking, and 
watch closely to keep them from being burnt; then take two pounds 



248 PRESERVES. 



of fruit, two pounds of sugar, moisten with half a pint of water, let 
boil until it is the consistency of thick molasses; then drop in the 
fruit slowly, a few at a time, so that it will not stop the boiling, un- 
til all are in. When the scum rises, take it off; when the fruit is 
cooked, it is done. Put in jars. When cold, cover with paper wet 
with the white of egg. 

Plums, 

Plums should be gashed with a needle to the stone to prevent 
their bursting; make a syrup of two pounds and a half of sugar to 
two pounds of plums; moisten the sugar with a cup of water, let 
boil until it is the consistency of thick syrup. Let stand until luke- 
warm; previous to putting in the plums, boil the fruit slowly until 
tender ; then put in jars. All preserves can he made the same. 

Qultice 3farmalade. 

Pare, core, and boil them in as little water as will cover them, 
when soft, add the sugar gradually; allow three-quarters of a pound 
of sugar to a pound of quince. 

Peach Marmalade. 

Pare, seed and weigh the fruit and sugar, allowing three-quar- 
ters of a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit; moisten the sugar with 
a cup of water, boil and skim, then add the peaches, stirring con- 
stantly until done; test the same as jelly. The juice of a lemon 
to two pounds of fruit improves it, added a few minutes before it 
is done. Some lemons turn bitter in boiling. All marmalades are 
made the same. Some fruits require boiling, as quinces, pears. 

Lemon Butter. 

One lemon, one cup of sugar, one egg, one tablespoonful of corn- 
starch, one and a half cupfuls of water; let boil until nice and 
smooth, stirring constantly. 

Ziemon Butter. 

Two lemons, half a pound of white sugar, one and one-fourth 



PRESERVES. 249 



pounds of butter, six eggs; boil all together. Grate the lemons, 
taking out the seed, then add the other ingredients and boil. 
Quince Honey. 
One large quince, grated, one tinful of sugar, and one tinful of 
water. 

Ajyple Sutter. 

Boil half a barrel of new sweet cider down half, peel and core 
one bushel and a half of good cooking apples; when the cider has 
boiled to half the quantity add the apples, and when soft stir con- 
stantly until done; test the same as jelly; add white sugar and 
sweeten and spice to the taste. Put away in stone jars; cover first 
with white paper wet with gum-arabic to fit the jar, and press 
down closely upon the apple butter. Cover the whole with thick 
brown paper. 



CANNING FF(UIT. 

Be sure to examine the rubbers, when old jars are used, to see 
if they are perfect and fit closely. If not, new ones must be ob- 
tained. Use only sound, selected fruit, of the best quality. In 
order to test the jars or cans, fill them half full of water, put on the 
rubber rings, screw on the covers, and shake them well to see if 
any water escapes. If not, for a further test, stand them bottom 
up on the table, and if after a little while, no leak occurs, they can 
be relied upon as air tight. Then pare and halve the fruit, pre- 
paring about enough to fill one can at a time, so that in cooking 
the pieces will not be broken. Drop in cold water as you peel, to 
prevent their being colored. When placed in the kettle or pan, 
add one cup or about half a pint of white granulated sugar, and a 
little over a cup of water to each quart can. Cover and cook 
through, but not to pieces, shaking the kettle occasionally, or care- 
fully moving the pieces to prevent burning. Instead of the old 



250 CANNING FRUIT. 



method of standing over the stove with the can in hot water, you 
may with equal success have ready on the table a folded cloth 
wrung out of cold water, on which place the can to be filled. 
This will prevent the cracking of the jar when the hot fruit is put 
in, by generating steam around it. To this bring the kettle when 
the fruit is ready, and as quickly as possible transfer the pieces 
with a spoon into the can, taking care not to break the pieces nor 
allow bubbles to remain, and adding, of course, the requisite 
amount of juice. Fill full and screw on the cover tight. It should 
be borne in mind that as the fruit cools the glass contracts, and it 
is well to tighten the screw until sure that the cover is perfectly 
tight. Wipe the cans carefully before putting away. 

Canned Peaches. 

Pare, cut in half, and stone, taking care not to l:)reak the fruit. 
Drop each piece into cold water as soon as it is pared; allow a cup 
of sugar to a quart of fruit, a small cup of water; let the sugar dis- 
solve, then add the peaches. Cook until tender; seal boiling hot. 

Pine-ajij'iles. 

Take those that are quite ripe, but free from decay; pare, and 
cut out the eyes; cut in thin slices; allow half a pound of sugar to 
a pound of fruit, moisten the sugar with a small cup of v.-ater; when 
dissolved, add the pine-apple; boil slowly until tender; fill glass 
jars, and seal boiling hot. 

Plums. 

Prick the plums with a needle to the stone to prevent the skin 
from breaking; allow a cup of sugar to a pound of fruit, and a lit- 
tle water to moisten the sugar; when dissolved, boil five minutes; 
remove from the fire; when lukewarm add the plums; boil slowly 
until tender; seal hot. 

Strawherries. 

Select fresh berries which are ripe and not soft; for each pound 
allow half a pound of sugar; moisten the sugar with a little water; 



CANNING FRUIT. 251 



boil five minutes, remove from the fire until lukewarm; add the 
berries, boil slowly ten minutes; seal tight. 

To Can Green Corn — No. 1. 

Boil corn on the ear a few minutes; take out, cut off, and fill 
the can within an inch and a half of the top; then fill up wi^h the 
water that the corn was boiled in ; solder. Boil three hours. 

To Can Green Corn — No. 2. 
Cut the corn off the cob, pack closely in quart cans, pressing it 
down as you fill them. Solder and set the cans in a wash boiler 
of cold water and bring it to a boil ; let it boil six hours. When 
done povir cold water in to cool the cans; lift out and dry. 

Canning Green Corn — No. 3. 

Dissolve one and a quarter ounces of tartaric acid in one half 
pint of water; cut the corn from the cob and cook it twenty min- 
utes; when cooked, add two tablespoonfuls of the acid solution to 
every quart of corn; can and seal securely, and set it in a cool, 
dry place. When wanted for use, stir half a teaspoonful of soda 
into two quarts of corn and let it stand three hours before cook- 
ing. This removes all acid from the corn. 



DF{JED FRUITS. 



Dried Peaches. 

Pare, cut in halves, stone, and sprinkle the cavities with sugar; 
lay on large plates and set in the oven when just cool enough to 
dry and not roast them; finish drying in the sun; cover with thin 
netting to keep the flies from them. 

Dried Corn. 

Cut close from the cob, spread thin on plates, and set in the 



252 DRIED FRUITS. 



oven until partly dry; if you wish you can finish drying in the sun; 
cover with netting. When dry tie in a paper sack and put in a 
cool, dry place. All fruits are dried the same. 

In stewing dried fruits, soak over night and stew in the water 
they were soaked in. Sweeten when half done. 



FI^ESH FFJJJITS. 



Fruit should be carefully selected and tastefully arranged. 

Oranges. 

Florida oranges are the best, but do not keep well; on this ac- 
count the Messina are preferable. The smooth oranges have more 
juice and acid; the rough, yellow-skinned oranges are the sweetest; 
greenish-tinged oranges are picked unripe. 

Peaches. 

The yellow freestone peaches are the handsomest but cannot al- 
ways be relied upon as the sweetest. 

Pears. 

The California Bartlett has the finest flavor and is considered the 
best; Winter Nellis is the best winter pear. Fine-grained pears 
are the choicest for eating. 

Grajyes. 

Catawba, Concords and Delawares, rank among the best and make 
a showy basket with leaves interspersed. The Malaga is the best 
foreign grape; it is pack, d in cork-dust and comes with its natural 
flavor. 

Pine-a2)2}les. 

The Strawberry is best; the Sugar Ijoaf comes next, but, un- 



FRESH FRUITS. 253 



fortunately, keeps only a short time. Pare, slice thin, mix with 
powdered sugar; set on ice until ready to serve. 

JVater-meloiis. 

Meloiis should be kept on ice until chilled. Cut the ends of 
the water-melons, then cut through the centre, set on the cut ends 
on the platter, cut across in slices and serve with the rind. Nut- 
meg-melons should be cut in equal pieces from the stem downwards, 
leaving the pieces still attached; they can be separated when 

ready to serve. 

Ca)italoup€s. 

Cantaloupe melons should be cut in equal pieces from the stem 

downwards, separate the pieces, remove the seeds, sprinkle with 

salt. 

Strawberries. 

Every section has its favorite varieties, any of which make a 
luscious and attractive dessert. I know the Sharpless to be very 
fine. Sprinkle with sugar an hour before serving, then with 
pounded ice just before sending to the table. 




WTrTrTTrTTTT-rTirTI»rjtTrrTIXaTTTITITTTTTIlTTl TTTIjg|;T',»» jItI'tr»»I»^iriTIIirTTIIXIXCITTTrTITTT,II^ 

EKjiiniiiiiiiixizEtrniiraziiTTTTTriTvnTr^^ 



iTnaxmximi 



TTTrViTrtTT-nirTTrTirrtitrrir^JjET-rii 



DRINKS AND FOOD FOR INVALIDS. 

Let everything- be sweet and clean, as their senses of taste and 
smell are very acute. Let it be presented in an inviting form; 
fine china, silver, etc., used. Be careful not to over-flavor their 
food. Always have a shawl at hand, also, a clean napkin, clean 
handkerchief, and a small waiter covered with a white napkin when 
you present food. It is well to have a small table or stand by the 
bedside, that you can set anything on. If you want anything to 
use through the night, you shoukl prepare it if possible, beforehand, 
as a person that is sick can sometimes fall asleep without knowing 
it, if the room is kept perfectly still. 

J3e<f Tea— No. 1. 

There are three forms of beef tea, suited to different stages of 
illness, any one of which will usually be taken without dislike by 
any average patient. The first is uncooked beef juice, and is often 
given in cases of extreme weakness when no other food can be re- 
tained. It is made thus: Cut into small pieces a pound of per- 
fectly clean beef, add five or six drops of muriatic acid and stir 
for a moment. The acid disengaging all the nutritious part of the 
meat from the fiber, leaves a clear red juice, which is strained off ; 
heated very hot and seasoned with salt, and if the patient likes it, 
pepper. This beef tea has frequently prolonged and saved life in 
desperate cases. 

Berf Tea— No. 2. 

One pound of perfectly lean beef is cut into small pieces, put 
into a strong quart bottle, corked and set to boil in a pot of cold 



DRINKS AND FOOD FOR INVALIDS. 255 

water. The heat disengaging the juice of the beef gives, after 
three hours' cooking, a strong and very nourishing liquid, into 
which the essential principal of the meat is condensed. Let it 
grow thoroughly cold before using, so as to remove every floating 
particle of fat. Re-heat and season with salt and pepper to the 
taste. A teaspoonful of arrow-root stirred in makes an excellent 
addition. Mix the arrow-root to the consistency of paste, with a 
little cold water, and stir in when it is boiling, stirring until it 
thickens a little. 

Beef Tea— No. 3. 

Beef tea for cases of lighter illness, where it is to supplement 
rather than replace other food. Take a pound of lean steak from 
the round, and cut very small; press it into a small sauce-pan, por- 
celain-lined, or a tin one, which the meat will half fill; add a quart 
of cold water and boil for an hour and a half; reduce to one half, 
and season with pepper and salt. 

Sllp2)eri/ Ehn Tea. 

Strip your slippery elm in small pieces; take a quarter of a cup- 
ful and pour over it three quarts of boiling water; when it forms a 
mucilage, strain, and add a little cracked ice. 

Chicken Tea. 

("ut a quarter of a chicken in small pieces, take olF the skin and 
all tlie fat, add to it a pint of cold water; boil slowly two hours, re- 
duce one-half; season with pepper and salt to taste, and some pars- 
ley if it is liked. 

Mutton Tea. 

Slice one pound of mutton, remove the fat, and add one quart 
of cold water; boil gently two or three hours, season with a little 
salt, add a little parsley, celery, or whatever suits the patient's 
taste. Veal tea can be made in the same way. 

Beef Broth. 

Cut one pound of beef into thin slices, remove all the fat and 



256 DRINKS AND FOOD FOR INVALIDS. 

put oil to boil in one quart of cold water; when it comes to the 
boil take off the scum, add a little salt, and one teaspoonful of ver- 
micelli, a little chopped celery. Boil gently two hours, season to 
taste, reduce to one pint, and serve. If your water boils away too 
rapidly, add more. 

Chicken Broth. 

Cut a quarter of a chicken in pieces, add to it one quart of water, 
a little salt; when it comes to the boil take ofi the scum, and add 
one tablespoonful of rice. When the chicken is tender enough to 
fall from the bones, reduce to one pint; mix smooth a teaspoonful 
of flour with a little butter, add to the broth, boil three minutes, 
and serve. 

Veal Broth. 

Cut one pound of knuckle of veal in thin slices, put on to boil 
in one quart of cold water; when it comes to the boil, take off the 
scum, add a little salt, boil gently one hour and a half, reduce to 
one pint, thicken with one teaspoonful of arrow-root, mixed 
smooth with a little cold water; be particular to have it boiling 
when you put the arrow-root in; stir until it thickens, and season 
to taste and serve. 

Mutton Broth. 

Slice one pound of mutton, remove all the fat and add one 
quart of cold water; when it comes to a boil take off the scum, 
salt to taste, boil two hours and three-quarters, before it is done 
add one-fourth of a cup of broken macaroni, or anything you pre- 
fer, allowing more time for rice or vermicelli to cook. 

Babbit Broth. 

Boil a rabbit in a quart of cold water until tender; when it 
comes to the boil take oft' the scum, salt to taste, boil until tender, 
thicken with a little flour and butter well mixed together; boil 
down to one pint. Toast a thin slice of bread and break in. 

Steamed Crackers. 

Lay one-half dozen crackers in a tureen, pour on boiling water 



DRINKS AND FOOD FOR INVALIDS. 257 

to cover them; when swollen, drain ofE thoroughly, grate loaf su- 
gar over them, a little nutmeg, and pour over them rich cream. 
Very nice for the sick. 

Lemon Gruel. 

Two large lemons sliced thin, one orange, arrange in alternate 
layers in a bowl, sprinkling sugar over each layer. Press them with 
your potato stamper until the juice moistens the sugar, then pour 
over them one pint of boiling water, let stand five minutes, and 
strain through a thin muslin bag; set it on the stove and let come 
to the boil, and stir in a tablespoonful of cornstarch previously 
mixed smooth in a little cold water; grate a little nutmeg in and 
sweeten to taste ; stir until it looks clear after adding the corn- 
starch. 

Pine-apple Gruel. 

Fill a teacup with thin slices of pine-apple, slice two oranges thin, 
lay in a bowl in alternate layers, sprinkle sugar over each slice, 
press them until the juice moistens the sugar, then pour over one 
pint of boiling water, let it stand twenty minutes, then strain 
through a thin muslin bag; return to the fire, and when it boils 
thicken with one tablespoonful of ground arrow-root mixed smooth 
with a little cold water to the consistency of paste; let it boil until 
it looks clear, stirring all the time ; sweeten to the taste, and grate 
a little of the rind of the orange in. 

Oatmeal Gniel. 

Mix one tablespoonful of oatmeal to smooth paste with a little 
cold water. Pour this into a pint of boiling water; let boil for half 
an hour, add a little salt, and one tablespoonful of cream, and sweet- 
en to the taste. 

Indian Gruel. 

Stir one tablespoonful of Indian meal and a teaspoonful of flour 
into a pint of boiling water, salt to taste, add half a teaspoonful of 
sugar; boil half an hour; if the patient can bear it add one table- 
spoonful of cream. 
17 



258 DRINKS AND FOOD FOR INVALIDS. 

Arroio-root Gruel. 

One teaspoonful of ground arrow-root, one pint of milk; set the 
milk on the stove to boil, mix the arrow-root to the consistency of 
a paste, with a little cold water; when the milk is boiling stir in 
the arrow-root and continue stirring until it thickens, add a tea- 
spoonful of whole allspice, sugar to taste. 

3Iilk Porridge. 

Mix a tablespoonf ul of wheat flour smooth with a little cold milk, 
and stir into a pint of boiling milk, and boil the porridge, stirring 
until it thickens; sweeten to the taste. Nice for children; take 
less flour if you wish it thin. 

Gruel of Grated Flour 

Take a quarter of a pound of flour, wet with just enough water 
to moisten it; form it into a ball, and tie in a cloth close and firm- 
ly, drop into a porcelain kettle of boiling water, boil the whole day, 
then take it out, dip into a pan of cold water; remove the cloth and 
place it in a cool oven to dry, when it will be fit for use. To make 
the gruel, grate ofE a dessert-spoonful, and mix it into a thin paste 
with cold milk, and then stir it into a pint of boiling milk, and add 
a little salt; sweeten to taste. This is excellent food for children 
who have bowel complaint. 

Cracker Gruel. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of grated cracker with a little cold wa- 
ter; stir into a pint of boiling milk; let it boil until it thickens, 
and sweeten it with white sugar; add a little nutmeg and two ta- 
blespoonfuls of rich cream, if the patient can take it rich. 

Rice Gruel. 

Mix one tablespoonful of ground rice smooth with a little cold 
milk; set a pint of cold milk on the stove; as soon as it boils, stir 
in the rice, and let it boil for fifteen minutes; sweeten and flavor 
to the taste; if the patient can take it richer add two tablespoon- 
fuls of rich cream. 



DRINKS AND FOOD FOR INVALIDS. 259 

llice Water. 

To a pint and a half of water add one-half an ounce of carefully 
cleaned rice, half an ounce of sugar, a little salt and the rind of a 
lemon and a little nutmeg. 

Rice Milk. 

One quart of milk, three tablespoon fuls of rice, sugar to taste; 
grate nutmeg on the top. Pick and wash the rice, put in the milk 
and set it over a slow fire to boil. 

Gum Arabic Water. 

Pour one pint of boiling water over two tablespoonfuls of gum 
arable; add the juice of a lemon and sugar to taste. When cold 
it is ready for use. Add a little cracked ice. 

Barley Water. 

Wash and pick one ounce of pearl barley; pour over it half a 
pint of boiling water and boil ten minutes. Pour off this water 
and add to the barley a pint and a half of boiling water and the 
rind of a lemon ; boil it down one-half and strain through a thin 
muslin bag or hair sieve. Set away to cool. 

Flaxseed Tea. 

Pour a pint of boiling water over two tablespoonfuls of unground 
flaxseed; cover the vessel and stand it near the fire four or five 
hours, and strain through a muslin bag or hair sieve; slice a lemon, 
pour boiling water over it, add to the tea and sweeten to the taste ; 
keep closely covered ; if exposed to the air it becomes stringy. 

Toast Water. 

Toast a slice of stale bread a dark brown with care to prevent it 
from being scorched or burnt. Put the toast in a deep bowl, add 
the rind of a lemon, and pour over it a quart of boiling water; let 
it stand four hours, then pour the water from the bread, let it cool^ 
and slice a little pine-apple or an orange in. 



360 DRINKS AND FOOD FOR INVALIDS. 



Apple Water. 

Slice two large pippin apples, toast a thin slice of bread; lay in 
alternate layers, sprinkling a little sugar over the apples; add the 
rind of a lemon or grated nutmeg. Let stand four hours, then pour 
the water off and add a little cracked ice. 

A glass of new milk sweetened to taste, an egg beaten light, a 
teaspoonful of rye liquor, for an invalid. 

Egg Toast for the Sick. 

A dainty way to prepare an egg for an invalid, is to first beat it 
till very light, then season with a little pepper, salt and a tiny 
lump of butter; then pour it over a slice of dry buttered toast and 
set the plate containing it in the steamer; cover closely and let 
it steam two or three minutes; an egg prepared thus will not be likely 
to distress the weakest stomach. 

Milk Toast. 

Slice some bread, toast it a nice light brown on both sides. Boil 
a pint of milk, let it boil about one minute, add a small lump of 
butter and a little salt. Place the toast on a dish and pour over 
each slice an equal quantity; serve with a poached egg on it. 

Sugared Oranges. 

Peel off the rind and slice them about an eighth of inch in thick- 
ness; strew over each slice a teaspoonful of sugar, if you have se- 
lected the lightest colored oranges, (which are preferable, as they 
have more acid than the dark.) Let them stand twenty minutes. 
They are very nice in cases of fever. Lay a lump of cracked 
ice on each piece just before serving. 

Sugared Lemoixs. 

Select nice large lemons, peel ofE the rind, and as much as possi- 
ble of the white skin; cut in round slices, sprinkle a teaspoonful 
and a half of sugar over each slice, and let them stand three-quar- 



DRINKS AND FOOD FOR INVALIDS. 261 

ters of an hour. Lay a little cracked ice on each piece a few 
minutes before serving. 

Barley Panada. 

Boil a half teacup of barley in water, until it is soft, with half 
a teacup of raisins; add nutmeg and sugar, and break in it a 
little nicely browned toast. 

Panada. 

Toast a slice of bread a nice brown, spread it with a little butter, 
and break it into small pieces in a bowl; add three sticks of cinna- 
mon, broken in small bits, a little whole allspice, a teaspoonful of 
currant jelly, a tablespoonful of rye liquor or wine, and sweeten to 
the taste. Pour boiling water over it and cover a few minutes, 
then serve. Ground spices will not answer. 

Mulled Buttermilk — No. 1. 

One pint of buttermilk, a tablespoonful of flour mixed smooth 
with a little cold buttermilk; stir continually until it boils, then 
add the flour when it comes to the boil; as soon as it thickens re- 
move it from the fire, or it will curdle; add a little butter and spice 
to taste (nutmeg or whole allspice); sweeten to taste. It is only 
good made of fresh buttermilk a day or two old. 

Mulled Buttermilk — No. 2. 

One pint of buttermilk, one Bgg, two tablespoon fuls of sugar; 
beat the egg and sugar together, add the buttermilk, and stir well 
together; pour it into a kettle and stir it continually until it boils; 
•or you can beat the egg separately and put the white in last; beat 
the yolk with the sugar; spice to taste. 







POULTICES, REMEDIES, &C. 

/Spice Poultice. 

One tablespoonful of cloves, one tablespoonful of ginger, one ta- 
blespoonf ul of allspice, one of cinnamon, one tablesjaoonf ul of lard, 
vinegar to make it the consistency of salve ; warm it, spread on a 
cloth, and lay over the bowels. To be used for dysentery. 

Scarlet Fever Pordtice. 

Poultice to be used after scarlet fever, when dropsy is setting in. 
One large handful of tansy, boil in a pint of vinegar until the strength 
is out of the herbs, strain, and pour it boiling hot over a quart of 
cornmeal, fill a bag and lay it where the pain is. Keep changing 
until the pain is removed, warming over when necessary. 

Sassafras Poultice. 

Make a strong tea of sassafras, take one quart of wheat bran, pour 
the tea over it boiling hot; when cool enough, fill a bag, and apply 
moist where the pain is. To be used when mortification sets in, or 
for inflammation. Lay a dry cloth over the bag to keep the patient's 
clothes dry. 

Parsley Poultice. 

Fry in clean lard a cupful of chopped parsley, half a cup of 
lard, strain, dip a cloth in the grease, put it on the inflamed part. 
Excellent for inflammation. 

Starch Poultice. 

Mix starch with thick, sweet cream, spread on a cloth and lay 
on. To be used after a fly blister. Excellent. 



POULTICES, REMEDIES, &c. 263 

Slippery Ehn Poultice. 

One large teaspoonful of the powder stirred into a little hot wa- 
ter, or equal parts of water and milk, is sufficient for an ordinary 
sized poultice; but the fresh bark pounded soft and covered with 
hot water and allowed to stand a few hours, and then thickened 
with a little wheat bran, makes just as good a poultice as the pow- 
dered bark. Spread on a cloth, cover with illusion, and grease with 
cream; lay it on the sore, change when it becomes dry. This is 
good for all kinds of local inflammations, wounds, sores, scalds, burns, 
ulcers, swellings, and gatherings. There is nothing better than the 
elm bark. 

Lye Poultice. 

Put a tablespoonful of wood ashes into a bag, tie it, and boil it 
in a pint of water twenty minutes, take out the ashes and thicken 
with cornmeal; stir in a teaspoonful of fresh lard, fill a small bag 
and apply warm. 

Lilly-root Poultice. 

Take the roots of the sweet lilly, pound them, and put on to boil 
in rich, sweet milk; when soft, thicken with bread crumbs. Very 
good for a gathering of any kind. 

IIo2) Poultice. 

Boil a handful of hops in a pint of water and one tablespoonful 
of vinegar, until very soft, then thicken with corn meal. Fill a 
small bag and lay where the pain is; apply moist and cover the 
bag with a dry cloth. Warm over when cool, and keep changing 
until the pain is removed. Good for inflammation, swelled face or 
sore throat. 

Potato Poultice. 

Boil and mash eight potatoes, put in a thin muslin bag, apply 
moist and as warm as the patient can bear it. It is considered 
better than bread, and retains the heat long-er. Cover the hag: 
with a dry cloth, to keep the patient's clothing dry. A poultice of 
peach leaves is most excellent to remove inflammation, dried or fresh. 



264 POULTICES, REMEDIES, &c. 

Bread and Milk Poultice. 

Boil sweet milk, thicken with bread, when soft spread on a 
cloth and lay on. Good for ulcers and gatherings. 

Mush Poultice. 

Boil a pint of water, thicken with corn meal, let boil fifteen 
minutes, stirring constantly. Fill a small bag a little more than 
half full, apply to the inflamed part; when cool change. It is 
best to have a half a dozen bags and fill in a clean one; wash the 
soiled ones out and put to dry. Some use only the two bags. 
Good for inflammation, gatherings and swellings. 

M^istard Plaster. 

The ordinary way is to mix the mustard with lukewarm water, 
adding a teaspoonful of flour to three of mustard. Lay the cloth 
on a heated plate, spread and cover with thin netting; cover with 
a warm cloth or plate and take to the sick-room. It must be 
watched closely or it will blister. Lay a warm cloth over the mus- 
tard to prevent the clothing from becoming damp. 

A Mustard Plaster that vnll not blister. 

Mix the mustard with the white of an egg. It will draw the 
same, and not blister even an infant. 

Sand Bag. 

Take some clean, fine sand, dry it perfectly dry in a skillet on 
the stove; make a bag, eight inches long and five wide, of flannel; 
cover with cotton or old silk to prevent the sand from sifting out ; 
you can button the outside cover on ; keep a common bag to warm 
the inside one in, and lay it on the stove or in the oven to heat; 
sand holds the heat a long time and is better than a brick or 
hot water. It is well to have two or three sand bags; they are 
very nice for cold feet in winter. 

Toothache Remedy. 

Alcohol, half a pint; tincture of arnica and chloroform, of each 



POULTICES, REMEDIES, &c. 265 

one ounce; oil of cloves, half an ounce; mix, and apply with lint. 
Rub the gums on each side of the tooth. 

Ctire for a Sprain. 

One-third salt, two parts lard; mix well and spread on a cloth, 
and lay on the sprain. Very good. 

To liCichen a Healed Breast. 

Take one-third chalk, two parts lard; pulverize the chalk, then 
mix well and grease a cloth, and lay over the part. Excellent. 

Remedy for a Scald or Burn. 

Mix sweet cream and flour into a thick paste, and spread on a 
cloth and layover the burn; wrap up with other clothes to exclude 
the air. It will draw the fire out and smart very little, if any. It 
seldom blisters if applied immediately. 

Cholera Balsa7n. 

Best alcohol, one quart; gum camphor, one ounce; oil of cin- 
nalmon, half an ounce; winter green, half an ounce; laudanum, 
two ounces; sulphuric ether, two ounces; chloroform, four ounces. 
If you wish, you can put in a little molasses to sweeten, and a little 
red sandre to color. Keep in a glass-stopped bottle for use, as it 
will only retain its strength in such. Dose for adults: one table- 
spoonful three times a day, or a teaspoonful every two or three 
hours, as the case may require. 

Cholera Bemedy. 

Equal parts of tincture of opium, red pepper, rhubarb, pepper- 
mint, camphor. Dose: from ten to thirty drops in three or four 
teaspoonfuls of water. 

Bysentery. 

Half an ounce of laudanum, half an ounce of sweet spirits of 
nitre, forty drops of oil of peppermint, half a pint of best brandy. 
Take a large teaspoonful with a little water and sugar every three 
hours, if necessary. 



266 POULTICES, REMEDIES, &c. 

To Cure Night Sweats and Bed Sores. 
Keep a bowl of fresh water under the bed. No matter how 
credulous you may be, the cure will be effected. I have never 
known it to fail in one instance. 

To Cure Earache. 
Use oil of spike. Drop a little on cotton; do not make it moist 
enough to run into the ear, or it will do harm. One trial is suffi- 
cient; you will never want anything better. 

Cure For White Swelling — TVo. 1. 

One handful each of wormwood, featherfew, tansy, Ijalm, cam- 
omile, hyssop, one pint of rye whisky, one pint of vinegar; boil all 
together until almost dry, move to the back part of the stove to 
cool a little, then add the whisky, quickly cover, for it will blaze 
up and burn off in a few minutes. Fill in bags eight inches long, 
and five inches wide; use only one at a time; apply hot as it can 
be borne; change, refill when cold. Drink sweet fern tea. 
Cure for Stiffness. 

The same kind of herbs fried in fresh butter unsalted; take equal 
weight of herbs and butter; when the pain is eased, grease with 
this; use the poultice steadily for some time during the day, at night 
grease a cloth, lay on warm, wrap in a lap of cotton. 
Cure For White Sxmlling — No. 2. 

Take blue clay, shave it down to a fine powder, mix it first with 
a little water; lay the clay on the sore, and wrap a damp cloth 
around it; when it dries it will harden; wet it, take off, and put on 
a fresh one. After the inflammation is drawn out, just use the dry 
clay pulverized; sift through coarse muslin. 
Troublesome Feet. 

Persons troubled with feet that perspire or smell offensively can 
effect a permanent cure by bathing them every night or oftener, 
in a strong solution of borax, using a tablespoonful of pulverized 
borax to a basin of water. Two or three weeks of such treatment 
will probably be found sufficient. 



COFFEE, CHOCOLATE AND TEA. 

lioast Coffee. 

Pick over carefully; wash and dry in a moderate oven ; stir often 
with a wooden ladle or spoon. It can be dried on top of the range 
or stove, but will require more care and constant stirring. Roast 
with the utmost care, as the flavor depend/5 on roasting. A small 
quantity should be roasted at a time. It should be done in a long 
dripping pan, stirring often. A tightly closed cylinder is prefera- 
ble, which should be constantly turned over a moderate heat while 
it is parching; only roast until the berries are a dark-brown maroon 
and the aromatic oil is developed. The coffee must be evenly 
roasted and must be free of burnt grains, a few of which destroy 
the flavor of a large quantity. When done it must be tender and 
brittle. When partly cool stir in the white of a well beaten egg 
and it will require no further clarifying. Keep in a tightly covered 
tin case and grind, not too finely, and only as required for use; it 
loses its flav^or standing unused. 

Coffee— No. 1. 

Seven tablespoonfuls of ground coffee. Pour over it two quarts 
of boiling water, and let set on the hearth and steep half an hour. 
Close the spout with a cork or roll pajDer tightly and fill it. Rinse 
your pot, if it be silver or Britannia metal, with boiling water; pour 
the coff'ee into it and serve hot. 

Coffee— No. 2. 

One tablespoonful of coffee for each person, and one for the pot, 
is the usual allowance ; mix well with the white of an egg, and add 
sufficient cold water to moisten it. Stir it in a well scalded coffee- 



268 COFFEE, CHOCOLATE AND TEA. 

boiler, pour in half the quantity of boiling water needed, allowing 
a pint less of water, then the tablespoonfuls of coffee, cork the spout; 
when ready to serve add the remainder of the boiling water. Boil 
seven minutes. If boiled long it is strong and the flavor is not as 
pleasant. 

Coffee vy'ith Whipped Cream. 

For nine cups of coffee of medium size, take one cup and a 
third of cream, whipped light with a little sugar. Put into each 
cup a sufficient amount of sugar and two teaspoonfuls of boiling 
milk; fill the cups with coffee and place on the top of each a heap- 
ing tablespoonl'ul of whipped cream, and give a slight stir to each 
cup. This is a French preparation and a popular drink. It is a 
nice addition to either chocolate or cocoa. A little vanilla is often 
added to these as a flavoring which takes off the over-rich taste. 

Cafe au Lait 

Is a common beverage among French people. It is made with 
a quart of clear strained coffee, a quart of boiling milk; sugar to 
taste, whipped up with the whites of three or four eggs. Rinse 
the coffee-pot with hot water, and pour in the coffee and milk al- 
ternately. Cover closely for three or four minutes; put a spoonful 
of the whipped and sweetened white of ^^'g in each cup. 

Chocolate. 

Grate half a cake of the best chocolate, and pour over it a quart 
of boiling water; boil fifteen minutes, and add one pint of rich 
milk, let boil five minutes more, and serve hot. Sweeten to taste. 

Cocoa. 

Take three tablespoonfuls of cocoa and three of chocolate; dis- 
solve in a quart of boiling water, boil hard fifteen minutes, and add 
one pint of rich milk; let boil five minutes more, and serve hot; 
sweeten to taste. This is enough for five persons. 

Cocoa for Invalids. 

Pour a quart of boiling water over a teacupful of the shells, 



COFFEE, CHOCOLATE AND TEA. 2G9 

cover tightly and boil one hour. Let it stand for several hours, 
then carefully remove with a spoon every particle of oil, then heat 
it and add a cup of boiling milk; sweeten to taste. This can often 
be taken when other beverages cannot be retained on the stomach. 

Tea. 

Scald your teapot with boiling water and allow a teaspoonful of 
tea for each person and one over; pour over it the required amount 
of boiling water, cork the spout while the tea is drawing to retain 
the aroma and allow the tea to stand and infuse for seven minutes. 
Rinse your teapot if it is silver or Britannia metal with boiling water, 
pour the tea into it and serve hot with rich cream. To insure it 
keeping hot while serving in a different teapot from that in which 
it is made, the help of a "cosy" is needed to make it to perfection. 
A " cosy " is a wadded cover made to fit the teapot. It is gener- 
ally shaped in two half circles, stitched around, wadded and lined, 
and corded. It can be made very ornamental of silk, satin or 
cashmere, embroidered or quilted. 

Iced Tea. 

Prepare tea in the morning, making it stronger than usual; 
strain and pour in a glass bottle or jar and set in the ice chest until 
ready to use. If you prefer sugar in your tea, make it sweeter 
than usual; add the sugar when you have made the tea. Serve 
clear in goblets, one-fourth filled with finely cracked ice; add a 
slice or two of lemon to each cup of tea, and a little of the juice. 

Tea—'' a la RusseP 

Place a piece of peeled, well sugared lemon at the bottom of 
each cup; pour over it the tea, hot and strong. Iced tea can be 
served in the same way. 



"■^^^Stt^^ 




a..,..^ m ^ ^ ^ 




;3^.p„^^,;3^^3^.^^..^.p,^,.;3^,^^ ^ 



^M. ,^ %. ^ %. 



TEMPERANCE DF(JNKS. 



Two gallons of warm water, two pounds of white sugar, one pint 
of hop yeast, one tablespoonful of grated lemon, one tablespoonful 
of ginger. Let it stand in a warm place about ten hours, then 
bottle. Flavor with wintergreen, or anything you prefer. Mix 
the sugar and spice in a crock, then put in the water and flavoring; 
add the yeast when lukewarm. If you want it very sharp, add the 
well beaten white of an Qgg. 

Mead— No. 2. 

Three pounds of brown sugar, one pint of molasses, one-fourth 
pound of tartaric acid; mix, and pour over this two quarts of boil- 
ing water, stir until dissolved, when cold add half an ounce of es- 
sence of sassafras, and bottle. When you wish to drink, put three 
tablespoonfuls in a glass half full of ice water, add a little more, 
then half a teaspoonful of soda. 

Mead— No. 3. 
Two and a half pounds of white sugar, two and a half gallons of 
warm water, half a tablespoonful of ginger, half a tablespoonful of 
cinnamon, one pint of hop yeast; flavor to taste. When lukewarm, 

add the yeast. 

Ginger Beer — No. 1. 

Half a pint of molasses, half a pint of yeast, half a tablespoonful of 
ginger, four quarts of boiling water, put the spice in the boiling 
water, then add the inolasses; when lukewarm stir in the yeast. 
Let stand in a warm place ten hours, then put in jars or a crock 
and cover. It is ready for use in forty-eight hours. 



TEMPERANCE DRINKS. 271 

Ginger Beer — No. 2. 

Ten quarts of cold water, one pint of molasses, half a phit of 
yeast, and two tablespoonfuls of ginger. Stir it up at night, and 
bottle it; next day stir it again. 

Lemonade. 

One-half pint of water, one lemon, sweeten to taste, one-half pint 
of finely crushed ice; grate into it a little nutmeg. 

Pine Apjy/e Syriq). 

Pare and cut the pine apples into small pieces and to every three 
pounds add a quart of water. Cover them and boil until very soft 
then mash and strain. To one pint of this juice add one pound of 
sugar; boil to a rich syrup, add the juice of one lemon just before 
taking from the fire. Some lemons become bitter when boiled. 
Put in bottles and cork tightly. 

Currant Syrup. 

Prepare the currant juice as for jelly ; make a syrup of one and 
one-quarter pounds of sugar and one pint of water; boil and skim 
it, then add the currant juice, pint for pint, and boil it for fifteen 
minutes; cool and bottle for use. You can give it the flavor of 
raspberries by adding the juice in the proportion of one-quarter 
to that of the currant juice. 

Lemon Syriqy. 

Squeeze the juice out of one dozen lemons, strain it and add 
half a pint of water and one pound of sugar; simmer until it be- 
comes clear ; bottle and cork tightly. 

Yaiiilla Syrup. 
Boil one pound and a half of white sugar in one pint of water 
fifteen minutes, then put in one vanilla bean and half a cup of 
water, and boil until reduced to one pint again, then strain through 
a flannel bag and bottle close. 



THE LAUNDIO". 



To Remove IStains. 

To remove coffee or fruit stains in table-cloths, pour boiling wa- 
ter on them and let remain until cold; rub out before putting them 
in soap suds; the soap will set them. To remove ink stains, rinse 
out first in cold water, then soak in sweet milk over night; if not 
out, let it remain in the milk two or three days, changing the milk 
to keep it sweet. I have never known it to fail. I have used it 
on carpets with equal success. An old stain will require two or 
three washings. Stains on white goods can be removed with lemon 
juice and salt; lay in the sun, and wet as it dries. 

To Set Colors. 

To brighten yellow colors wash in soft soap suds. A little salt 
in the rinsing water will brighten black, green and blue colors. 
Alum is excellent to set green blue. Vinegar in the rinsing water 
of red and pink calicoes will brighten them; use in small quanti- 
ties; too much will fade. One tablespoonful of salt to a pail of 
water, half a cup of vinegar to a pail of water, one tablespoonful 
of alum to a pail of water. 

Shirt Polish — No JBetter. 

Use Niagara gloss starch, half a pound. Directions to make 
the starch: Mix the starch with a little cold water, add half a pint 
more cold water, then put a little liquid blue into it and mix well. 
At the same time have a quart of boiling water on the stove. 
Put first a lump of white sperm the size of a large hickory nut, 
white wax the same ; let melt in the boiling water, then stir in your 



THE LAUNDRY. 273 



mixed starch and let boil; stir all the time for ten minutes. Use 
polishing irons to finish when you iron the shirt. 

To Wash Woolen or Chintz. 

Ten cents worth of soap tree bark; for one dress pour on a gal- 
lon of cold water, set on the back part of the stove and let steep 
three or four hours and then strain it. If woollen, wash in the so- 
lution and dry without rinsing; when half dry iron on the wrong 
side. For chintz, use the same amount as above, only rinse in 
weak salt water to set the color. Never use this amount for more 
than one dress, and use only for black goods. Excellent. 

JTow to Iron Ctiffs. 

CuSs that are laundried at home often fail to please. They are 
ironed out flat, and when the buttons are put in the cuffs blister 
and wrinkle. This can be avoided if the laundress only knows 
how to iron the cuffs until perfectly dry, and then takes the broad 
end of the flatiron and, pressing very hard on the edge, places it at 
one end of the cuff and slowly goes over the length of it. 
The cuff will roll as the iron leaves it. This is so simple an opera, 
tion that one is likely to succeed the first time she tries to do it. 

TrMisparent Toilet Soap, 

Cut fine fme and one-fourth pounds of best rosin bar soap, put 

in a clean vessel, then add one pint of alcohol. Scent with any 

kind of oil or essence combined that you choose; heat from three 

to five minutes, which is sufficient, stirring to dissolve the soap, 

then strain and cake in whatever form you please. This soap will 

remove from cloth, silk or merino, paint, tar, grease or oil, without 

disturbing colors or injuring it in any way. Its quality as a shaving 

soap is unsurpassed by any in use. It will also remove tar from 

the skin. Directions for using: Rub this soap on the soiled spots, 

then with a rag, in the form of a ball, dip in warm water and rub on 

the soap until the spot is removed. 
18 



374 THE LAUNDRY. 



Soaj) that xcill liemove Tan. 

Take two cakes of Windsor soap, scrape them, then add a wine- 
glassful of lemon juice and a wine-glassful of cologne; mix all to- 
gether, then make into cakes and lay aside to harden. 

Yariegated Toilet Soaj). 

Soft water, three quarts; nice white bar soap, three pounds; 
salsoda, two ounces; Chinese vermilion and Chinese blue, of each, 
as much as will lie on a five-cent piece; oil of sassafras, half an 
ounce. Shave the soap fine and put it into the water as it begins 
to boil. When it is dissolved, set it from the fire; take out a cup 
of the soap and stir in the vermilion; take out another cup of the 
soap and stir in the blue; then pour in one of the cups and give 
two or three turns only with the stirring stick; then put in the 
other in the same way, and finally pour into a suitable box, and 
when cold it can be cut into bars, or it can be run into moulds if 
desired. It will become hard in a short time, giving most excel- 
lent satisfaction. If stirred thoroughly after putting in the colors, 
it would be all of a mixed color, but giving it only two or three 
turns leaves it in streaks most beautiful. 

White Hard Soaji With Tallow. 

Fresh slacked lime, salsoda and tallow, of each two pounds; 
dissolve the soda in one gallon of boiling soft water; now mix in the 
lime, stirring occasionally for a few hours, after which let it settle, 
pouring off the clear liquor and boiling the tallow therein until it 
is all dissolved; cool it in a flat box or pan, and cut into bars or 
cakes, as preferred. It can be flavored with sasafras oil as the 
last by stirring it in when cool. It can be colored also if desired, 
as mentioned in the variegated toilet soap. 

Hard /Soap Lard. 

Salsoda and lard, of each six pounds; stone lime, three pounds; 
soft water, four gallons; dissolve the lime and soda in the water by 
boiling, stirring, settling and pouring ofi" ; then return to the ket- 



THE LAUNDRY. 275 



tie (brass or copper) and add the lard and boil until it becomes 
soap; then pour into a dish or moulds, and when cold cut it into 
bars and let it dry. It would be better than half the toilet soaps 
sold if an ounce or two of sassafras oil were stirred into this amount. 
This soap is said to irritate salt-rheum less than other soaps. 

JlorcihacJc's Compound Chemical Toilet Soap. 

Take one and a half gallons of clear water, hang it over the 
fire and as soon as it boils put in six pounds of Colgate's opodeldoc, 
having it shaved. up fine, one tablespoonful of spirits of ammonia, 
•one tablespoonful of spirits of turpentine, one tablespoonful of 
spirits of wine, add one-fourth of a pound of salsoda. Boil all 
together for five minutes or until well dissolved; stir it well as 
soon as it is dissolved, put it down by the fire, take one pint of the 
hot fluid, pour it into a bowl and take as much Chinese vermilion 
as will lie on a ten cent piece; put it into the bowl of hot fluid and 
stir it until well mixed; then pour into the pot of soap and stir it 
two or three times; then pour it all into vessels and let it cool, 
when it is fit for use. This makes eighteen pounds, and it will be- 
come hard and solid in a few weeks. The Colgate's opodeldoc 
can be gotten from Colgate, of New York, a soap manufacturer. 
You can find his address at any good drugstore on a bar of his 
soap. 

For Washing Clothes. 

Take six gallons of clear water, three pounds of Colgate's opo- 
deldoc, one pound of salsoda, four tablespoonfuls of spirits of 
ammonia, four tablespoonfuls of turpentine, and four tablespoonfuls 
of spirits of wine. Boil until well dissolved; as soon as cold it is 
fit for use. This makes fifty pounds of jelly soap. 

DiRECTioxs. — Make strong hot suds, put in the clothes to be 
washed over night; next morning rub the wristbands and collars a 
very little, then wring them out, put them in another good suds, 
and boil them, and then rinse them in clear water, and hang them 
up to dry. 



276 THE LAUNDRY. 



Directions for Improved Stamping. 

Lay the goods to be stamped on a smooth, even surface; then, 
arrange the pattern in position, rough side up. Hold the pattern 
in place at the right hand corner, by a heavy weight; and on the 
left by the hand. Take up some powder on the pouncet and rub 
evenly and carefully over the perforations, taking up more powder 
as occasion requires. When you think the impression is perfect, lift 
the left hand side of the pattern carefully to see; if not, rub on more 
powder; then remove the pattern, lay soft paper over the stamp- 
ing, and press thoroughly with a hot iron. If the goods is velvet 
or plush, do not press, but hold the stamping in front of a brisk fire 
until it will not rub off. If you are using blue powder, a little 
more heat will be required than if you are stamping with white 
powder. 

To MAKE THE PoUNt^ET OR DISTRIBUTING PaD. A large SpOol, 

or the lid of a round wooden box answers nicely; over this sew 
firmly a piece of chamois skin, or kid glove. This answers as well 
as the pouncet you would otherwise have to buy. The chamois 
skin is best. — Toledo 'Weekly Blade, 

Prepared Povxler for Stamjnng. 

Get one ounce each, of Prussian blue, and rosin; pulverize the 
latter thoroughly, then rub the two together through a piece of 
cheese capping or thin muslin, and it is ready for use. Take a piece 
of old flannel four inches wide and twelve inches long, roll it tight- 
ly, wind and tie securely a string around one-half for a handle; 
next lay your cloth for stamping on a table, pin the pattern on 
rough side up, and dip the loose end of the swab into the blueing, 
and rub gently on every part of the pattern, then lift it off careful- 
ly and lay a paper on the cloth, and press with a moderately hot 
iron; raise the iron every time you move it, and be very particular 
to press every part, as that with the rosin sets the blue. It is a 
good plan to try first on old cloth until you learn. — The House- 
hold. 



THE LAUNDRY. 



277 



To Remove Paint from Clothes. 

Chloroform will remove paint from clothes without injuring the 
softest fabric. 



'nil ' ,4f; ' ri;' ' i ' ,ii ' ,, ' i ' ii ' i,vi, ' ,, ' ,'wh,,i ' i rrt ' ' i ' n ' n ' ,i,ii n TTrn ^ ' 'i;A,!iii\v'l\;i;'iri ' i/ii,n;' ' ;Vw;' ' i;.\,'i.,.v'iv. ' il ' ':,,. ' iI_ v!Tl 




CARVING. 



Carving is not a natural endowment, but, like everything else, 
requires study and practice. It is a nice thing to be an expert in 
this line, to be able to carve with ease and elegance. This accom- 
plishment may be acquired by almost any lady or gentleman. We 
propose to lay down a few short rules, which, if carefully observed, 
will make any one a good carver. Knowledge is power only 
when it has an application to practical purposes. 

The first essentials are a good carving knife and fork. The knife 
should be put in edge before it is brought to the table, and the 
carver should always have sufficient room for the free use of his 
arms. The plate containing the article to be carved should be placed 
as near the carver as possible, so that he may execute his work in 
a graceful manner. It requires more skill to carve poultry than 
anything else. 




In carving a fowl, it should be laid with the breast uppermost, the 
head to the right, the fork placed in the centre of the breast. Cut 
off the wing nearest you first, by inserting the knife at the joint 
at «, and carrying it through to J, when the wing is easily de- 
tached. Next the leg or what is called the first joint, then the 



CARVING. 



279 



second joint; by inserting the knife at h cut downward as far as c, 
separate the ligature near that point, and then turn the leg back 
with the fork and the parts will give way. Remove the joints on 
the opposite side the same way. Slice off the breast on both sides, 
then take off the merry- thought at f?, which will be easily re- 
moved by inserting the knife according to the line marked and 
bending it back. Next remove the neck bones e to d. By a little 
pressure of the knife they will break off from the part that sticks 
to the breast. Then separate the breast from the body of the fowl 
by cutting right through the ribs to the points c and c. 




Then turn the fowl back upwards on your plate as shown in the 
second figure; put your knife into the bone, midway Ijetween the 
neck and the rump, as seen in the lines from g to/'; and by rais- 
ing the lower end there will be no trouble to separate. Then take 
off the two side bones at h h, which completes the operation. An 
experienced carver always retains his seat, never makes a mis-cut, 
or shows the least embarrassment. 



JOINTS. 

Which are the principal staples of dinners, deserve special notice 
at our hands. There is an art in carving these as well as fowls, but 
they are unfortunately oftener cut than carved. 



280 



CARVING. 



BEEF. 




Names of .Joints. — Hind Quarter. — 1, Sirloin; 2, Rump; 3, 
Aitch Bone; 4, Buttock; 5, Mouse-buttock; G, King; Piece; 7, 
Thick Flank; S, Thin Flank; 9, Leg; 10, Fore-ribs— five ribs. 




Aitch-bone or H. Bone of Beef is a favorite joint in salt beef. 
When it is boiled the first cut should be laid aside as it becomes 
hard and dry by boiling. The outer slice should be taken off in 
the direction of a to i, then cut thin slices across the grain. In 
helping the plates, give each a little of the marrowy fat at c, and a 
little of the solid fat at d. The line e h indicates the best cuts of 
the Joint. 

A Hoioid of Beef 

Is to be carved very much like the edge-bone. First cut away the 
irregular outside pieces, then cut broad thin pieces, serving a lit- 
tle of the under fat with the lean. 



CARVING. 



281 



A Brisket of Beef. 

This is easily carved. All that is irecessary is to cut down to 
the bone the long way; but it is all- important that this should be 
cut in thin slices. 




In Carving beef, lamb, mutton and veal, always cut across the 
grain. Carve in thin slices from the side next to you, in the di- 
rection from h to «, which appoilions the fat with the lean. The 
tenderloin is underneath, and as many prefer that, it must be 
turned, and cross slices cut from thence, beginning at the point c. 



MUTTON OR LAMB. 




Names of Joints. — 1, Leg; 2, Loin, best end; 3, Loin, chump 
end; 4, Neck, best end; 5, Neck, Scrag end; 6, Head; 7, Breast; 
8, Shoulder. A Chine is two Necks; a Saddle is two Loins. 



282 



CARVING. 




A Leg of Mutton. 

In carving a leg, turn the knuckle to the left, plant the fork 
firmly on the side of the joint, and begin by cutting across near the 
middle, to the bone according to the line a b. A small piece of 
fat should be served along with each slice when it is desired. 



PORK. 




Names of Joints. — 1, the Spare-Rib; 2, the Hand; .3, the Belly 
or Spring; 4, Fore-Loin; 5, Hind-Loin; 6, Leg; 7, Head. 



A Leg of PorJc 

Should be carved very much like a leg of mutton. 
the slices are served thinner than when roasted. 



When boiled. 



A Loin of Pork 

Should be jointed by the butcher when purchased; then all the 
carver has to do is to separate the meat into chops, beginning at 
the narrow end, and putting one chop on each plate. 



CARVING. 



283 



VEAL. 




Names of Joixts. — 1, Loin, best end; 2, Loin, chump end; 3, 
Fillet; 4, Hind-knuckle; 5, Fore-knuckle; 6, Neck, best end; 7, 
Neck, scrag end; 8, Blade-bone; 9, Breast, best end; 10, Breast, 
brisket end. 

A Fillet of Veal 

Is carved in the same way as a round of beef. In serving, each 
dish should contain a little of the stuffing, and a small portion of 
the fat. 



HAM. 




It is necessary to observe certain rules in carving ham. The 
slices should be thin, but not like wafers. The popular mode of 
carving ham, is to begin cutting your slices at the line indicated by 
a bj and proceed toward the thick end. The most economical way 
is to begin at the knuckle and slice upward. The knuckle is best 
dried and baked. Mutton and pork hams are served in the same 
way. 



284 



CARVING. 




A Tongue 

Can scarcely be carved too thin, as its delicacy depends largely 
upon that. It should be cut nearly through at the line a h. The 
centre slices are always preferred, being delicious when properly 
cut. Those who ask for it may be helped to fat from the under 
side. 



FISH. 

It does not require a great deal of skill to carve fish, but it 
should be done with great lightness of touch to prevent the flakes 
from ])reaking, which always adds to the beauty of cod and salmon. 



HOW TO SERVE. 

The carver should help the plates, and the waiter hand them 
round, always exercising his own judgment as to what cut he shall 
put on each plate. The commonly practiced mode of asking each 
one what choice they prefer is very objectionable, for in this way 
those who come last may not be accommodated. Always serve 
ladies before gentlemen. 



. •— 



ft 



I 



THE DINING-I^OOM. 



The importance of this room is not to be overlooked in the build- 
ing and furnishing of a house. All the money and taste must not 
be expended on the parlor, sitting-room, and bed-chambers; the 
dining-room comes in for its share. It should be made as beauti- 
ful and attractive as circumstances vpill permit. If we deny our 
homes of beauty, we make a serious mistake in the beginning of 
life, and deny our children their natural inheritance. We do not 
advocate extravagance, for it is one of the crying evils of the age; 
and in nine cases out of ten, brings poverty and sorrow as its fruit- 
age. Our people, as a rule, live too fast; the poorer classes try to 
imitate their richer or more prosperous neighbors, and the rich go 
beyond their income, and hence come to grief. I wish I could by 
pen or voice say something that would have a tendency to check 
the extravagant notions, which have shaken the whole fabric of so- 
ciety. Beauty does not always imply extravagance, and there is 
a happy medium which we sliould try to strike in arranging and 
furnishing our homes. 

x\ll cannot command money, but all may display taste; the hum- 
ble home may be attractive, if not gaudy. And after all, is it not 
the ornamental, rather than the useful and substantial, that costs 
more labor than money, that makes the home attractive? 

The dining-room should be as bright and cheerful as possible, 
for there husband, and wife, and children, meet together three 
times a day, not simply to supply the demands of the body, but 
for social chat and intercourse. As the meal hours are the social 
liours of the day, they should be of sufficient length to afford the 



302 THE DINING ROOM. 

greatest sociality. Here at least we might profit by imitating the 
example of our English cousins, who take sufficient time at every 
meal to make it an enjoyable occasion. To have good spirits, we 
must have a good stomach; therefore, we should take sufficient 
time to masticate the food, and not gulp it down in a hurried man- 
ner. 

Some attention should be given to the decoration or tasty ar- 
rangement of the table, as it will not only please the eye, but go 
very far toward tempting the appetite. A boquet of flowers, which 
may often be procured with little cost in the summer season, is 
better than a meal in some houses. This is not a book on etiquette, 
and yet perhaps a few general rules on formal or paity meals 
should be given. 

DINNER. 

The dinner has always been considered the important meal of the 
day, and its etiquette has been studied with the greatest care. "We 
cannot claim any originality in this country, as our rules are simply 
the modified forms of English and French customs. 

The table should be arranged to suit the number of the guests, 
and the linen clean and spotless, and napkins of the same texture 
folded and laid upon the plates. A vase of sufficient size may be 
placed in the centre of the table filled with choice flowers, droop- 
ing ferns, and trailing smilax. Sometimes small boquets contain- 
ing fine cut flowers and trailing vines, are interspersed throughout 
the table. Custom sanctions the arranging of fruit and small cakes 
in fine cut glass dishes, ornamented with green leaves. In arrang- 
ing the plates special attention must be given to the comfort of the 
guests. The knives, forks, and spoons, that will be needed for all 
the courses, may be laid at each plate; or, if it be preferred, these 
may be brought in with each new plate, and one fork laid at the 
left of the plate, the right side being uppermost, and the knife laid 
at the top of the plate, with the edge toward the plate. The spoon 
is always laid at the right side; the glass to be filled with water is 
set at the rigrht-hand side. 



THE DINING ROOM. 303 

The Order of Going to Dinner. 

This will be the same as in general society. Before the time 
arrives the hostess will indicate to each gentleman the lady she 
wishes him to escort. When dinner is announced, the host should 
give the signal for starting by rising and giving his arm to the la- 
dy designated for him, and the other guests will follow his exam- 
ple. Each gentleman offers the lady assigned to him his right 
arm and escorts her to a seat at his left. The last to pass into the 
dining-room will be the hostess and her escort. The distribution 
of seats in a large company is always embarrassing, and requires 
some tact to do it well, but the matter is greatly simplified by 
placing a card with the name of the guest on the plate intended for 
him. A dinner consists of courses. We shall not attempt to name 
any bill-of-fare, as these will diiFer, according to the taste of the 
host and hostess. The hostess always sits at the head of the table, 
and the host at the foot, with the side-board at his back. The soup 
is always served first, and constitutes the first course. The attend- 
ant places each dish in turn before the hostess, and host, as shall 
be hereafter indicated. If there should be only one kind of soup 
served, it should be placed before the hostess with as many plates 
as there are seated guests. If two kinds, one should be placed be- 
fore the host. As each plate is ready it is. received by the attend- 
ant on a salver, and set before the guest from the left. When 
ready for the second course, the plates are removed, and fish is 
served, which may be declined or received, according to the taste 
of the guest. Then come the meats as the third course, accompa- 
nied with side dishes. The latest custom is to serve but two kinds 
of vegetables with each dish. The roasts and joints are placed be- 
fore the host, who is supposed to understand the rules of carving. 
The carver should serve meat as he cuts it, so far as practica- 
ble, but care should be taken not to serve the plates too bountifully . 
It may be assumed that all will relish a piece of breast; and after 
that is served, it will be in taste to ask, "What part do you prefer?" 
After the meats, the plates and silver are removed, the crumbs 



304 THE DINING ROOM. 

brushed into a crumb tray, and the dessert is brought; also, fruit 
knives, finger bowls, and fruit plates. The cofEee is served after 
the dessert, and custom requires it to be strong and black, vpithout 
sugar or milk. Two hours is the time given to the party dinner. 
The hostess will give the signal for leaving the table by pushing 
back her chair, when the ladies return to the drawing-room, and 
the gentlemen to the library or smoking-room. In a half hour tea 
is served in the drawing-room, the gentlemen joining the ladies; 
soon after the company will be at liberty to depart. 

Table Arrangement. 

We have already given a general outline of what will be requir- 
ed, but perhaps some additional particulars will be necessary to 
make our article complete. The dinner napkins which are folded 
in a smooth square, with two edges turned Imck, should be laid upon 
the plates, with a small piece of bread or cold roll placed on the 
top, being half concealed under the compartment of the fold. The 
small or individual salt dishes are not used at the dinner table, 
salt and pepper stands being distributed over the table. 

It is not considered in good taste to have a great variety of 
dishes. Heavy silverware has been largely displaced, or super- 
seded, by porcelain or glass. Fine cut-glasri of different shades 
and tints, is used at the most fashionable dinners. Candles are 
largely used, instead of lamps and gas. 

BREAKFAST. 

This is the least ceremonious and most social meal of the day. 
There v/as a time when breakfast parties were little known, but in 
recent years they have been growing in popularity. They are es- 
pecially designed for literary men or men of leisure; business men 
are necessarily debarred because of other engagements. Ladies 
often prefer them because they are less formal and expensive than 
dinners. The most fastidious occasionally enjoy a meal when 
ease and simplicity are the prevailing characteristics. Some taste, 
however, is required in arranging the table and getting up the bill- 



THE DINING ROOM. 305 

of-fare. The table-cloth may be the whitest linen, with napkins 
to correspond, or they may be of damask, as the mistress shall 
prefer. 

There should be a greater array of glass than silver, with orna- 
mentation of fruit and flowers. 

The courses should be few in number, but very choice, and served 
with as little display as possible. The coffee should be set before 
the mistress, with cups in their saucers. The meat should be set 
before the master, with as many plates as there are seated guests. 
The following order may be observed: First, fruit, which should 
be served in abundance, as that is the best hour in the day for 
fruit, according to the old adage, which says, " Fruit is golden in 
the morning, silver at noon, and leaden at night." This may be 
followed with oatmeal porridge, or cracked wheat; next meat and 
vegetables; then hot cakes and coffee. Maple syrup and honey 
are served in saucers. The time for a formal or party breakfast 
is from ten to twelve o'clock. Dinner from six to eight. 

Luncheon, 

Luncheon is not so common in country towns, but is one of the 
established institutions in the larger cities. The business customs^ 
and habits, of thecities are of such a character as to prevent the heads 
of families returning to dinner until the day is nearly gone. Cus- 
tom has assigned this meal almost exclusively to the ladies. It is 
an informal mid-day meal, and whether it consists of one or more 
courses, it is all set on the table at once. The attendant serves 
one round, and then leaves the meal to the full enjoyment of the 
guests, who help one another. 

Table Manners. 

It is not my purpose to write a dessertation on table manners, 

but as it has so much to do with the feelings of men, it deserves 

some notice. It is not a matter of small moment to observe the 

rules which prevail in the best society. No man or woman amounts 

to much in this life unless working towards an ideal, trvins^ to rise 
19 '.To 



30G THE DINING ROOM. 

higher in the social scale, to advance in the estimation of the com- 
munity in which he lives. One who is perpetually offending- those 
around by his rudeness and inattention to pleasant little civilities 
cannot wield the influence of another who never forgets to be po- 
lite. You may say the manner of eating has nothing to do with 
moral character. It may seem so, but if it is a constant cause of 
irritation and disgust to some one obliged to sit at the same table, 
you have to answer for the effect upon the character of another. 
To a certain extent the observance of the laws of etiquette is a 
matter of morals. They are really the outgrowth of kindness, of 
the feeling of the majority of the refined and cultivated people of 
all nations, that whatever tends to produce the least friction in so- 
cial intercourse brings the greatest amount of happiness, and, there- 
fore, higher morality. Those who come nearest your ideal man or 
woman, are invariably persons who practice the little courtesies of 
life, and yet appear to do so without effort. 

Health and manners require that you eat slowly, sit as erect as 
possible, and never lean your elbows on the table. Never talk too 
loud, or too long; no gentleman will monopolize more than his share 
of the time. Always try to avoid coughing or sneezing at the ta- 
l)le; if you cannot control it, leave the table and room as hastily as 
possible. If accidents occur, pay no attention to them. If any- 
thing unpleasant is found in the food, say nothing about it; to do 
so would be to injure the appetite of others. 

Never smack your lips or make any noise in your mouth, but 
keep the lips closed. Do not spread out your arms so as to annoy 
others. Keep your elbows at your side. Never eat all on your 
plate, or scrape up the gravy with bread. Do not take up joints 
or pieces of fowl with your fingers to get all the meat from them. 
You have a right to decline a dish, but never say "it does not agree 
with me;" it will be sufficient to say, "No, thank you." Never 
pour your tea or coffee into a saucer, or leave your spoon in the 
cup; take it out and lay it in the saucer. The napkin should be 
laid on the lap instead of tucking it under the cliin or spreading it 
across the breast. Never pass your plate to be re-filled, with knife 



THE DINING ROOM. 307 

and fork on it; lay them on your bread. Do not help yourself to 
any food with your own knife and fork. Pastry is to be broken 
as well as eaten with the fork ; do not use the knife. Food that 
cannot be eaten with the fork should be eaten with a spoon. 
Cherry stones and other substances which are to be removed from 
the mouth are put into the napkin held to the lips, and then re- 
turned to the plate. Fish must be eaten with the fork. Bread is 
to be broken with one hand, never cut. Bread eaten with meat 
should not be buttered. At the close of the meal lay your knife 
and fork side by side on the plate, with the handles to the right. 
When you vacate your chair leave it where it stands. The great- 
est rudeness at the table is committed with the knife and fork. 
The only use of the knife is for cutting the food and dividing the 
joints. 

Putting the knife into the mouth is always a great offence to 
the other guests and essentially vulgar. When the food is properly 
cut, the knife should be laid on one side of the plate, and the 
fork be taken in the right hand. Custom requires soup to be taken 
from the side of the spoon, and tea is sipped in the same way. 
Never use the spoon belonging to the cup of tea for other purposes. 
If you need one make known your want quietly to the attendant. 
At party dinners, when done, lay the napkin on the table unfolded. 







^ HSgg.EEc'Hg jdd^d^ dji^ Hd.dji^ 



THE KITCHEN. 



There are hundreds and thousands of humble homes all over 
this broad land without a parlor, but not one without a kitchen. 
This is a sine qua non in every household. The room in which all 
the fruit is prepared, all the cooking is done, and all the pastry is 
gotten up ought to be of some importance. But according to the 
judgment of some builders, any little six-by-eight room will an- 
swer the purpose, when the fact is, it ought to be one of the lar- 
gest and most comfortable rooms in the house. There should be 
windows enough to have a circulation of air, and to allow the sun to 
make its appearance every day it shines. In connection with this there 
should be a pantry of sufficient size to accommodate the cooking 
utensils, a meal chest or two, and a china closet. Occasionally you 
will find one so large that the dish- washing is done in it. There is 
economy in building it with a hard wood floor, for by oiling it two 
or three times a year, you will not need a carpet, and find no trou- 
ble in wiping up any grease spots that may be made. Kitchen 
carpets under the best circumstances do not present a tidy appear- 
ance long. Every kitchen should be wainscoted, and the wood 
well oiled, and the walls and ceiling painted. This is preferable 
to kalsomine, whitewash, or paper; it does not peel off, and is very 
easily cleaned. A good sink is a great convenience, and kitchens 
should not be built without them; the water pipes should connect 
with them, and be located as near the pantry as possible. 

The range should have a full set of furniture, and the pantry 
liberally supplied with tinware and other articles too numerous to 
mention, yet indispensable to convenient and successful house- 



THE KITCHEN. 309 



keeping. Iti a word, it will take money, and no small amount, to 
furnish a kitchen well. Unless every convenience is aiForded and 
appliance procured, it will shorten the life of any woman to do her 
own work and attend to the other duties of her family. Where 
there is but one servant kept, the arrangements must be very sys- 
tematic, and the mistress kindly disposed and reasonable, or the 
work will not be done. No kitchen should be left to the judgment 
and discretion of the servant or servants. Where this is the case, 
in a short time confusion will reign supreme, and waste and extrav- 
agance will be the predominating feature of the household. What- 
ever the wealth and social position of the family, the mistress 
should visit the kitchen every day, give directions and see that ev- 
erything is conducted in a becoming manner. When lamps are 
used instead of gas, they should be filled with oil, washed and 
trimmed, and set on a shelf kept for that purpose. Do not fail to 
keep lamp chimneys on hand, so that you may be ready for an 
emergency. One of the best ways to clean lamp chimneys is to 
hold them over the spout of a boiling tea-kettle, then wipe with a 
clean cloth. 

To clean the burners, wash and boil them in ashes and water, 
then rub them with oxalic acid; then dry, and polish with fine coal 
ashes, and they will be clean and bright. Wash and dry the nicks. 
If the flat-irons should become rusty, the rust can all be removed 
by the use of beeswax and salt, or by rubbing them with a rag 
dipped in oil of tartar. Silver spoons should never be used in cook- 
ing, or to scrape kettles or pans; it is an extravagant habit, as they 
will be broken or bent in some way. 

Servants are often very careless in washing dishes ; between 
breaking, cracking, and nicking, they soon destroy an expensive 
set of dishes. If you deduct the cost of every broken or injured 
dish out of their wages, I guarantee a cure. Dish-washing ought 
not to be an unpleasant duty, and yet it is often so regarded, not 
only by servants, but by the young house-wife. Let me give you 
a little insight into the science of the matter. 

When you clear up your table, remove all the food first, then 



310 THE KITCHEN. 

the castor, sugar bowl, butter dish, etc. Then take a knife and 
scrape all the crumbs from every plate and dish into the chick- 
ens' pail, put the bits of butter into the plate of cooking butter, 
and pour out all slops of tea, coffee or water. Then pile up the 
plates artistically (here is some of the science), the larger ones at 
the bottom, and so on. When all are picked up and arranged 
in order, take them to a shelf or a table in close proximity to 
the sink. Procure a large tin dish-pan with two handles, as tin is 
so much easier kept clean than the little wooden tubs we used 
years ago, and will never rust if scalded and wiped dry every time 
it is used. Mix in your pan a small quantity of pretty warm 
water, with a little soap. Wash every dish separately, commenc- 
ing with glass and silver, and ending with tins and kettles. Then 
wash out your dish-pan, pile all, or as many of the dishes as you 
can into it, pour a dipper of hot water into your tins and wipe 
while hot, never drying on or by the stove, as it spoils them. 
Rinse your silver and glass and wipe immediately; then pour the 
hot water over the dishes with enough more to scald them 
thoroughly and rinse off all the dish-water. Whirl them around 
rapidly in the pan, then turn one by one upon a rack to drain, said 
rack supposed to be an indispensable appendage to the sink. Wipe 
as fast as possible. You will have to work lively at this stage of 
the operation, as they must not be allowed to drain dry, as by so 
doing they have a spotted, streaked look. You will be perfectly 
astonished at the fun of washing dishes if you proceed in this way. 
They are finished up so suddenly that you wonder what has be- 
come of them. 

Do not fail to keep your tea-kettle filled with water. You will 
need hot water nearly every hour in the day. When you have an 
occasion to draw from it, be sure to pour in as much cold. If you 
contract this habit you will never be delayed nor embarrassed with 
your work. It is sometimes a hard matter to keep the hands clean; 
in dish-washing, peeling vegetables and similar household work 
they become roughened, and the little creases seem filled with 
dirt to such an extent that soap and water will not meet the case. 



THE KITCHEN. 311 



For this trouble glycerine and ammonia, mixed in equal parts and 
applied on retiring at night, will be found very efficacious, both in 
softening the skin and removing the dark lines. 

In a well ordered kitchen you will never find dirty pans, pots, 
skillets, dishes, or tinware; as soon as the meal is over everything 
will 1)6 washed and put into its appropriate place. The tinware 
should be scoured often, and never allowed to tarnish; and the 
range or cooking stove kept black and burnished. The floor should 
he wiped up often, and the wainscoting and other wood work 
cleaned once a quarter. The room in which the cooking is done, 
and the meals prepared, should be scrupulously clean; "Cleanliness 
is next to Godliness." 

With proper management and the exercise of a little taste, every- 
thing can be kept in perfect order without overtaxing the mistress 
or servants. There is no reasonable excuse for the thousands of 
disorderly and dirty kitchens all over our land. Water is plentiful, 
and soap is cheap. "Order is the first law of nature." Confusion 
is the creature of man. There is an old adage which says, "A place 
for everything and every thing in its place," and it does 
seem to me to he particularly applicable to the kitchen. A care- 
ful observance of this adage will save a multitude of steps and en- 
able a house-wife or servant to do again as much work in the same 
time. There should be a place for table linen, knives and forks, 
dish cloths, towels, dusters, brooms, scouring material, matches, 
tea, cofEee, spices, etc. 

Money spent in the purchase of articles that will save labor and 
time, is true economy. If your kitchen is not supplied with every- 
thing necessary for convenient and successful housekeeping, begin 
at once to purchase, plan, arrange, and work, and your labors Avill 
soon be crowned with success. 

We find the following excellent article or compilation in "Home 
and Health," on waste in the kitchen. By permission we copy it: 

In cooking meats, without removing the grease, or the grease 
from the dripping-pan is thrown away. 



;312 THE KITCHEN. 



Pieces of bread in the bread-box, and cake in the cake-box, are 
left to dry and mold. 

Scraps of meat are thrown away. 

Cold potatoes are left to sour and spoil. 

Preserves are opened, forgotten, and left to mould and ferment. 

Dried fruits are not looked after and become wormy. 

Vinegar and sauce are left standing in tin. 

Apples are left to decay for want of "sorting over." 

Corks are left out of the molasses and vinegar jugs. 

The tea canister is left open. 

Victuals are left exposed to be eaten by mice. 

Bones of meat and the carcass of turkey are thrown away, when 
they could be used in making good soups. 

Vegetables and puddings left from the dinner are thrown away. 

Sugar, tea, coffee, and rice are carelessly spilled in handling. 

Soap is left to dissolve and waste in the water. 

Dish-towels are used for dish-cloths. 

Napkins are used for dish-towels. 

Towels are used for holders. 

Brooms and mops are not hung up. 

Coal is wasted by not sifting the ashes. 

More coal is burned than necessary, by not arranging dampers 
when not using the fire. 

Lio;hts are left burning when not used. 

Tin dishes are not properly cleansed and dried. 

Knives and forks get rusty for want of care. 

Nice ones are spoiled by use in the kitchen. 

Pails and washtubs fall to pieces, because left dry. 

Potatoes in the cellar grow, and thus become unfit for eating. 

Carpets are swept with stub brooms, which wear out the carpet 
texture. 

Good new brooms are used in scrubbing the kitchen floors. 

Sheets are scorched and injured by being used in ironing. 

Silver spoons are used in scraping kettles. 

Good forks are used and ruined in toasting bread. 



THE KITCHEN. 313 



Pie -crust is left and laid by to sour, instead of making a few 
tarts for tea, etc. 

Cold puddings are considered good for nothing, when often they 
can be steamed for the next day, or, in case of rice, made over in 
other forms. 

Vegetables are thrown away that would warm for breakfast nicely. 

Cream is left to mould and spoil. 

Mustard is left to spoil in the cruse, or rust, and vinegar is al- 
lowed to stand until the tin vessel becomes corroded and spoiled. 

Pickles become spoiled by the leaking out or evaporation of the 
vinegar. 

Pork spoils for the want of salt, and beef becavise the brine 
wants scalding. 

Hams become tainted, or filled with vermin, for the want of 
care. 

Cheese moulds, and is eaten by mice or vermin. 

Lard is not well tried in the fall, and becomes tainted. 

Tea and coflFee-pots are injured on the stove. 

Potatoes are "peeled" before boiling, thus losing a large fraction 
of the substance. It is much more economical to boil before the 
rind is removed; then only the thin rind is lost. 

Wooden ware is unscalded, and left to warp and crack. 

The following receipts will be found both useful and reliable: 

To Take Rust out of Steel. 

Rub the steel with sweet oil; in a day or two rub with finely- 
powdered unslaked lime, until the rust all disappears; then oil 
again, roll in woolen and put in a dry place, especially if it be ta- 
ble cutlery. 

To Polish Brass Kettles. 

If they are much tarnished, first rub with a solution of oxalic 
acid; then dry and polish with rotten stone or the finest emery. 

To Clean a Stove-pipe. 

Put a piece of zinc on the live coals in the stove; the vapor pro- 



314 THE KITCHEN. 



duced by the zinc will carry off the soot by chemical decomposi- 
tion. Persons who have tried the process claim that it will soon 
vanish. Cockroaches are also driven away by it. 

Drimng A\oay Ants. 

Take carbolic acid diluted with water, say one part acid to ten 
parts water, and with a syringe throw this liquid into all the cracks 
and holes where they nest, and they will soon vanish. Cockroach- 
es are also driven away by it. 

To Give Glass Jh'llUan.cij. 

Wash with damp sponge dipped in spirits, then dust with pow- 
dered blue or whiting (tied in a muslin bag) and polish with a 
chamois skin. 

To liemove Grease and Dirt from Paint. 

A flannel cloth dipped into warm soapsuds, and then into whi- 
ting, and applied to paint, will remove all grease and dirt. Wash 
with clean water and dry. The most delicate paint will not be in- 
jured and will look like new. 

To Determine 'Whether Water he k>oft or Hard. 

To ascertain whether or not water be fit for domestic purposes, 
to a glassful of the water add a few drops of the solution of soap 
in alcohol. If the water be pure, it will continue limpid; if hard, 
white flakes will be formed. 

To Clear Muddy Water. 

It is a peculiar property of alum that, when in solution, it will 
combine with the most foreign particles in suspension, or even in 
solution. In fact, on this property is founded the manufacture of 
the lakes used in painting, the dissolved coloring matter being 
precipitated by dissolving in it a piece of alum as small as a hick- 
pry nut, or even smaller, according to the degree of impurity of the 
water; simply dissolve the alum, stir up and let it settle. Along 
the Missouri and Mississippi rivers this method is frequently em- 



THE KITCHEN. 315 



ployed. When no excess of alum is used, this also is mostly car- 
ried down in the deposits. 

To Keep 'Water Cool Without Ice. 

Water can be kept cool for drinking in warm weather by the 
following method: Get fresh water, let it be kept in an unglazed 
earthen-ware pitcher, wrapped around with two or three folds of 
coarse cotton cloth kept constantly wet. The theory of cooling 
water in this manner is the absorption of heat from it by the evap- 
oration of the moisture in the cotton cloth. Expansion produces 
cold, compression heat. 

A Durable Cement. 

Burn oyster shells and pulverize the lime from them; then mix 
it with the white of an e^g till you have a thick paste. Apply it 
to the china or glass, keeping the piece firmly together until dry. 
When it is dry it will take a very long soaking for it to 1)ecome 
soft again. 

German Cement. 

Two measures of litharge, and one each of unslaked lime and 
flint glass, each to be pulverized separately before mixing; then 
to use it, wet it up with old drying-oil. The Germans use it for 
glass and china-ware only. Water hardens instead of softening it. 

To Clean /Silver. 

First, wash to remove all the grease from the silver, then rub 
with a woolen cloth wet with ammonia and whiting, and polish on the 
chased and filigree parts with a tooth-brush. This preparation is 
also nice to clean fflass windows and all kinds of fflass-ware. 

To Clean Tin-vmre. 

The best thing for cleaning tin-ware is common soda. Dampen 
a cloth and dip in soda, rub the tin briskly, after which wipe dry. 
Black and dirty tin-ware can be made to look like new. 



310 THE KITCHEN, 



Hov; to Clean Knives. 

A board should be kept for this purpose. First use bath brick 
or a little well powdered ashes, after which apply your cleaning 
powder, which can be had from any jeweler, and sometimes from 
your grocer. This should be applied with a large cork kept for 
that purpose, which will require a little moistening. The blade of 
the knife should be held firmly on the board; after this take the 
second cork and rub on a little of the powder without moistening; 
then wipe off with a piece of newspaper; never use a cloth or 
towel. Never put the knives into hot or dirty water, and 
scour as soon as washed. They should always be kept in a box 
provided for that purpose. 

Paper for Cleaning. 

It is generally known that paper is a most useful article in clean- 
ing. It is better than soap suds for coffee-pots, tea-kettles, &c. 
The stove will look well for a long time after blacking, if rubbed 
with a piece of paper every morning. And it should be used in 
polishing tin-ware, spoons, knives, lamp chimneys, &c. 

To Clean New Kettles. 

To remove the urn taste from new kettles, boil a handful of hay 
in them, and repeat the process if necessary. Hay water is a great 
sweetener of tm, wooden and iron ware. In Irish dairies every 
thing used for milk is scalded with hay water. 



I 



THE TOILET. 



How to be Beautiful. 

Beauty has its foundation in physical well-being. Health has 
its laws which must be understood and obeyed, and these laws are 
clearly indicated in our physical and mental constitutions. They 
demand proper food and drink in such quantities as the system is 
capable of readily assimilating: air and sunlight, sufficient ex- 
ercise, rest and sleep, an agreeable temperature, perfect cleanli- 
ness. The whole secret of a full form and rosy cheeks lies in pure 
blood, manufactured from wholesome food, by healthy and active 
vital organs. Cosmetics, and all beautifying lotions for the com- 
})lexion, if used at all, should be applied with the greatest care 
and discrimination. The fine fiber of the skin should not be sub- 
jected to any agent which has not undergone the strictest chemi- 
cal analysis, and received the sanction accorded to critical test. 
As in all other things there is in the matter of the toilet an art so 
})erfect as to conceal even the trace of art, and every lady should 
rise to the dignity of a special artist in her appropriation or imper- 
sonation. 

(reneral Hales for Bathuuj. 

1. All full baths, wet-sheet, pack, plunge, duche shower, or tub- 
bath, or rub wet-sheet, should be taken four hours after a full meal, 
when the food is well digested. Local l)aths can be taken in an 
hour or two if the temperature of the patient be kept in a normal 
state. 



318 THE TOILET. 



2. Bandages may be applied at any time in a warm room. One 
hour should be allowed after a full bath, and half an hour after a local 
or partial bath for the system to rest before taking food. 

3. If the body is not comfortably warm, some exercise should be 
taken before bathing. If not able to take the exercise and you 
are feeling chilly and cool, the water must be only lukewarm ; if hot at 
first, it will excite action too suddenly. Increase the heat gradually 
until perfectly warm, then cool gently but quickly until it is cold 
enough to produce a good action on the surface. 

4. Persons having a good circulation may take the pail, duche, 
or shower bath with benefit. No strong shock can be made upon 
the head with safety; it must fall lightly and gently. Wetting the 
head and chest is beneficial before taking a full bath. 

5. No baths should be taken when exhausted by fatigue or from 
any other cause. No one should bathe when the body is cooling 
after perspiration, but bathe when the body is warm, provided no 
time is lost in getting into the water. Avoid chilling the body 
after having been in the water. 

G. Never remain too long in the water. Leave it imme- 
diately if there is the slightest feeling of chilliness. 

No baths should be taken in the open air, if after having been 
a short time in the water there is a sense of chilliness with numb- 
ness of the hands and feet. 

The vigorous and strong may bathe early in the morning on an 
empty stomach. The young and those that are weak had better 
bathe three hours after a meal. The best time for such is from 
two to three hours after breakfast. Those who are subject to attacks 
of giddiness and faintness and those who suffer from palpitation 
and other sense of discomfort at the heart, shovdd not bathe with- 
out first consulting their medical adviser. A teaspoonful of am- 
monia in the water will sweeten the skin more quickly tlian the 
toilet extracts in use. 

Cold Bath. 

Temperature, 35 to 65 degrees. The application of cold water 
to the surface of the body is attended with an immediate tonic ef- 



THE TOILET. 319 



feet. This is evident from the glow which takes place and the 
sense of renewed strength indicating an increased action in all the 
vessels of the system. The application of the cold water possesses the 
power of contracting the solid parts of the body and this contrac- 
tion is followed by a reaction in which the nerves, blood-vessels 
and all the organs of the system are excited to a more healthy and 
energetic performance of their functions. The best method of 
taking a cold bath is in the sea or in a river, and it is well not to 
protract the process, since the benefit derived depends on the first 
impression the cold water makes on the skin and nerves. 

2. /Shovjer BatJi. 

The shower bath is most useful when there is any determina- 
tion of the fluids to the head. Several other reasons may here be 
stated for the superiority of the shower bath. The sudden con- 
tact of the water, which in the ordinary cold bath is but momen- 
tar}', may in the shower bath be prolonged, repeated and modified 
at pleasure. The first shock is received on the head and the blood 
is therefore impelled downwards. The shower bath descends in 
single streams and drops, and for this reason is more stimulating 
and pleasant than immersion in cold water. It is an indefinite 
repetition of the one single effect produced by a plunge into cold 
water, and is easily procured and readily adapted to the circum- 
stances of the patient. 

3. Tepid Bath. 

The water for this bath ought to be from 85 to 95 degrees of 
the thermometer. The tepid bath has much efficacy in reducing 
the general excitement, lessening the pulsation in fevers. It is 
also very important in complaints of the stomach and liver, in the 
debility produced by long residence in hot climates, in the languor 
and weakness accompanying delicate habits, and in gout, rheu- 
matic affections and cutaneous diseases. It is admirably adapted 
for persons in advanced life. The best period for the bath is the 
mornino; between ten and twelve o'clock. 



320 THE TOILET. 



4. Warm Batli. 

For this Ijath the water should be from 93 to 98 degrees of heat. 
It is of great utility in a variety of ailments, such as inflammatory 
and rheumatic affections, diseases of the skin, intestinal obstruc- 
tions, nervous irritation, and debility, whether constitutional, or 
arising from previous illness, intemperance, late hours and hard 
study, or irregularity in diet or exercise. Women who are deli- 
cate, weak and nervous may with much confidence expect relief 
from the use of a warm bath. If the warm bath is not intended 
to produce perspiration, it can properly be used at any time from 
an hour after breakfast till dinner. But if increased perspiration 
be the object, the evening is the best time for this bath, and the 
patient should be conveyed from the bath to a warm bed. 

5. Hot Bath. 

Temperature, 98 to 104 degrees. Bathing in tepid and warm 
water has a sedative effect. It excites the sensation of heat, low- 
ers the pulse, relaxes the skin, diminishes excitement, and proves 
eminently refreshing. On the contrary hot baths are stimulating; 
they quicken the action of the heart, redden the skin, make the 
respiration more frequent, and produce copious persjDiration. 

6. Vapor Bath. 

Temperature, 100 to 115 degrees. This species of bath is 
recommended for the same classes of ailments for which the 
warm bath is applicable, and it has not unfrequently succeed- 
ed in producing the desired effects when warm bathing has failed 
to do so. 

7. Turkish Bath. 

This bath has been greatly lauded, by those interested, as a per- 
fect panacea for all human ills, whereas it has been proven by im- 
partial judges that its use only occasionally is of benefit to a pa- 
tient. It does grievous harm to the strength of the person, and in- 
variably retards a recovery to perfect health. Every time a Turk- 
ish Ijath is taken, the patient, whether healthy or sickly, loses a 



THE TOILET. 321 



certain proportion of his vital force — of his ability to generate life 
power, and in this way is lost the power to resist contagious or in- 
flammatory diseases. The lungs are also injured — they cannot 
help being so, breathing such a super-heated atmosphere as is at- 
tached to Turkish baths. The healthy and elastic tone of the skin 
of the whole body is impaired. The Turks are the most idle and 
unprogressive of all nations — are made largely so by the use of 
this bath. 

6'. Jiicssian Hath. 

The remarks made under the heading of Turkish baths, apply 
with equal force to the Russian, and should be avoided by all who 
wish to keep their strength of body intact or to recover from sick- 
ness. 

Care of the Teeth. 

Frequent brushings with cold water alone is requisite for cleans- 
ing purposes. After each meal adhesive particles of food should 
be carefully removed with a tooth-pick or a silk thread drawn be- 
tween the teeth. If a dentifrice be required let it be some simple 
specific that will not injure the gums or enamel. Frequent rubbing 
with salt or lemon is oaid to preserve the gums. 

Care of the Hair. 

In its arrangement, every lady should adopt the method best 
calculated to give character to the style and bring facial fine points 
into prominence. The manner of wearing the hair is often neces- 
sitated by a certain style of bonnet or hat, but the lady of refine- 
ment will select that only which best suits herself. 

The condition of the system has much to do with the quality 
and fiber of the hair. At the root of every hair there is a little 
l)ulb of oil disseminated by frequent brushing, if the scalp be kept 
clean and free from dandruff. Want of proper care, failure of the 
secretions to perform their mission causes the hair to become dry 
and harsh and fall out as in cases of fever. In such cases a gentle 
stimulant should be applied to the scalp. Take bay rum, one pint; 
alcohol, half a pint; castor oil, half an ounce; carbonate of am- 
20 



322 THE TOILET. 



inonia, one-fourth of an ounce; tincture of cantharides, half ounce. 
Mix and shake when used. It will stop the hair from falling out 
and cause it to grow in. The ends of the hair should be clipped 
every month to facilitate growth. Fine, glossy hair is secured by 
frequent brushing. A moderately hard brush should be used 
night and morning with care, so that the scalp will not be irritated 
or the hair broken ofE by pulling at the roots. The brush should 
be kept clean by washing it frequently in ammonia water. 

Hands. 

A beautiful hand is not necessarily small, or unaccustomed to 
labor. Its beauty consists in its shapeliness, delicacy of touch, 
and cleanliness. The hand, to be in proper proportion to the rest 
of the body, should be as long as irom the point of the chin to the 
edge of the hair on the forehead. The nails should be kept clean 
by the daily use of the nail-brush and soap and water. After 
wiping the hands, but while they are still soft from the action of 
the water, gently push back the skin which is apt to grow over 
the nails, which will not only preserve them neatly rounded, but 
will prevent the skin cracking around their roots and becoming 
sore. The points of the nails should be pared at least once a 
week. Biting them should be avoided ; this is a habit that should 
1)6 immediately corrected in children; if persisted in for any length 
of time it permanently deforms the nails. Dipping the finger- 
ends in some bitter tincture will generally prevent children from 
putting them to the mouth. 

Hedness and J3urnin<j of tlie Hands. 

Redness and burning of the hands is caused by defective circu- 
lation. The best remedy is to protect them as much as possible 
from the cold when out of doors by using a muff and wearing 
lined gloves. To prevent the burning sensation, hold the hands 
for a few minutes in very warm water after coming in, as that gen- 
erally produces a feeling of coldness afterwards, whereas cold wa- 
ter causes a srlow after it has been used. 



THE TOILET. 323 



The Feet. 

Many jDersons neglect to wash their feet oftener than once a 
week. Cleanliness, as well as healthfulness, requires one bath a 
day for the feet, and when they perspire freely they should be 
bathed twice a day in soap and warm water, and rinsed in a strong 
solution of borax, using a tablespoonful of pulverized borax to a 
basin of water. Two or three weeks of such treatment will prob- 
ably be found sufficient to effect a cure. After washing, put on 
clean socks. The nails should be pared weekly, and always straight 
across, so as to prevent the nails from growing in at the sides. 
The secret of health is to keep the feet dry and warm and the 
head cool. If the feet become damp, through exposure, they 
should be bathed at once in warm water and rubbed briskly. Few 
things are more refreshing after a long walk or getting wet feet 
than a tepid foot-bath, clean stockings and a pair of easy shoes. 

The Eye. 

Its beauty consists in the beautiful expression, so much admired, 
which comes from a pure mind, a clear conscience, and full appre- 
ciation of the beautiful. The eye-lash is considered beautiful when 
long and full. The lashes may be lengthened by trimming the 
edges, neatly and evenly occasionally, in childhood. 

Eye-sight — To Preserve. 

Never sit, for any length of time, in absolute gloom, or exposed 
to a blaze of light. The reason on which this rule is founded 
proves the impropriety of going hastily from one extreme to the 
other, whether of darkness or of light. Avoid reading small print, 
and straining the eyes by looking at minute objects. Do not read 
in the dusk, nor if the eyes be disordered by lamp or gaslight. 
On first waking do not permit the eyes to dwell on glaring objects. 
The sun should not be suffered to shine into the room at that time, 
and only a moderate quantity of light should be admitted. For 
the same reasons the furniture, walls and other objects of a bed- 
room should not be altogether of a white or glaring color. Those 



324 THE TOILET. 



whose eyes are weak would find considerable advantage in having 
pale tint of green for the furniture and the prevailing color of their 
bed-chamber. Nature confirms the propriety of this direction for 
the light of day comes on by slow degrees, and green is the uni- 
versal color she presents to our eyes. Those individuals who are 
rather long-sighted should accustom themselves to read with the 
book somewhat nearer to the eye than what they naturally like, 
while others that are rather short-sighted should use themselves 
to read with the book as far off as possible. By these means both 
will improve and strengthen their sight, while a contrary course 
increases its natural imperfections. It is well to read or sew with 
the light above or behind rather than in front of the face; or with 
a shade to protect the eyes from glare. 

Eyes — To Judge %i:hen they Hequire the Assistance of /Sjyectacles. 
"When we are obliged to remove small objects to a considerable 
distance from the eye in order to see them distinctly. If we find 
it necessary to get more light than formerly, as for instance, to 
place the light between the eye and the object. If, on looking at 
and attentively considering a near object, it fatigues the eye and 
becomes confused, or if it appears to have a kind of dimness or 
mist before it. When small printed letters are seen to run into 
each other, and hence, by looking steadfastly on them appear 
double or treble. If the eyes are so fatigued, by a little exercise,, 
that we are obliged to shut them from time to time, so as to relieve 
them by looking at different objects. "When all these circumstances 
concur, or any of them separately, takes place, it will be necessary 
to seek assistance from glasses, which will ease the eyes, and in some 
degree check their tendency to become worse, whereas if they be 
not assisted in time, the weakness will be considerably increased, 
and the eves be impaired by the efforts they are compelled to exert.. 

I^ECIPES FOI^THE TOILET. 

To Remone Freckles — i\^o. 1. 
Take equal parts of lemon juice and glycerine, and anoint the 



THE TOILET. 325 



face at night before retiring; let the application dry. In the morn- 
ing anoint again, gently rubbing; then bathe in tepid water, after 
which use very cold water and rub briskly. If persisted in, this 
cannot fail to produce a beautiful complexion. 

To Remove Freckles — Xo. 2. 

Corrosive sublimate, eight grains; rose-water, three ounces; mix. 
Dampen a cloth, wipe the face gently at night before retiring. 
This is excellent, but must be kept out of the reach of children. 

Another Remedy for Frec-Jdes. 

Mix together two ounces of lemon juice, a half a dram of pow- 
dered borax and one dram of sugar, and allow them to stand in a 
bottle for a few davs. Rub occasionally over the face and hands. 

To Remove Tan. 

"Wash with a solution of bicarbonate of soda and a little lemon 

juice. 

To Remove VTrinklet^. 

White wax, one ounce; strained honey, two ounces; juice of 
white lily bulbs, two ounces. Melt the wax, add the juice of the 
lily bulbs and honey; mix well; use twice a day. 
Lij) Salve, 'White. 

Olive oil, two ounces; spermaceti, two ounces; white wax, two- 
ounces; prepared lard or mutton-tallow, two ounces. Melt all 
slowly together in an earthen vessel, and while cooling stir in one 
ounce of rose-water, essence of lemon, one drachm, bergamot, 
one drachm; beat with a silver fork until the mixture is perfectly 
white and light; then while it is still warm put into small tin boxes 
and cover. 

Lijy Salve, Carnation. 

Olive oil, half a pound; alkanet root, half an ounce. Macerate 
with heat until the oil is well colored, then add of white wax, three 
ounces; spermaceti, three ounces; oil of lavender, fifteen drops; 
essence of bergamot, half a drachm. 



326 THE TOILET. 



Lip Salve, lied. 

Olive oil, half a pound; alkanet root, one ounce. Macerate 
with heat until the oil is well colored, then add of spermaceti, one 
ounce; white wax, four ounces; prepared suet, six ounces. When 
nearly cold, stir in orange-flower water, half an ounce; oil of lav- 
ender, one-fourth of a drachm. 

AnotJier. 

Prepared suet, half a pound ; prepared lard, half a pound ; alkanet 
root, one ounce. Macerate in a gentle heat until sufficiently 
colored, then cool a little, and stir in of rose water, three ounces; 
oil of lavender, five drops; essence of neroli, five drops; essence 
of lemon, five drops; essence of bergamot, five drops. 

Essence of J'^erbena. 

Oil of verbena, one drachm; rectified spirit, one ounce. Mix 
and add essence of vanilla, ten drops. 

Essence of Violets — JVo. 1. 

Orris root, two ounces; rectified spirit, eight ounces. Digest, 
express and filter, or proceed by percolation. 

Essence of Violets — JVo. 2. 

Alcoholic extract of cassia, one pint; esprit de rose; tincture of 
orris and of tuberose, of each, half a pint; oil of almonds, three 

drops. 

Essence for Smelling Bottles. 

Essence of ambergris, one ounce; otto of roses and oil of lav- 
ender, of each, twenty drops; essence of bergamot, two drachms. 
Mix and add five ounces of the strongest solution of ammonia. 
Fragrant and refreshing. 

Esprit de JBoquet. 

Oil of lavender, oil of cloves, and oil of bergamot, each, two 
drachms; otto of rose and oil of cinnamon, each, twenty drops; 
essence of musk, one drachm; rectified spirits, one pint. Mix. 



THE TOILET. 327 



Eau de Boquet. 

Spirit of rosemary and essence of violets, of each, one ounce; 
essence of l^ergamot and jasmine, of each one drachm; oils of 
verliena and lavender, each one scruple; eau de rose, half a pint; 
orange- flower water, one ounce; rectified spirit, two pints'; mix, 
digest and filter. 

(Jream^ (Jold. 

Oil of almonds, four ounces; white wax and spermaceti, of each 
two drachms; melt; add rose-water, four ounces; orange-flower 
water, one ounce. Used to soften the skin. 

Cream^ Cold Violet. 

Almond oil, three-fourths of a pound; oil of cassia, one-fourth 
of a pound; rose water, sixteen ounces; sperm, one ounce; wax, 
one ounce; otto of almonds, one-fourth of a drachm. 

Cream, /Shavlnr/. 

White wax, spermaceti and almond oil, of each, one-fourth of an 
oun(!e; and while warm beat in two squares of Windsor soap, pre- 
viously reduced to a paste with rose water. 

Ice Camj:>hor. 

Melt of spermaceti, one drachm, with almond oil, one ounce, and 
add of powdered camphor, one drachm. 

Esseyice of Jioses. 
Otto of roses, seven drachms; spirit, one gallon. 

Esseiice of Jioses. 

Mix rose leaves, four parts; water, twelve parts. Distil off one- 
half. When a sufficient quantity of this water has been obtained 
it must be used as water upon fresh rose leaves, and the same pro- 
cess must be repeated to the fifth or sixth time, according to the 
(juality desired. Alcohol is better than the water. 



328 THE TOILET. 



Pofume of Floioers, to Extract. 

Procure a quantity of the petals of any flower which has an 
agreeable flavor, card thin layers of cotton wool which dip into the 
finest Florence oil. Sprinkle a small quantity of fine salt on the 
flowers and place layers of cotton and flowers alternately until an 
earthen or wide mouthed glass vessel is quite full. Tie the top 
close with a bladder and lay the vessel in a south aspect exposed 
to the sun and in fifteen days, when opened, a fragrant oil may 
be squeezed away from the whole mass and but little inferior, if 
roses are used, to the dear and highly valued otto or odor of roses. 

Otto of Moses. 

Fill a large glazed, earthen jar with rose leaves, carefully sepa- 
rated from the cups. Pour upon them spring water just sufficient 
to cover them, and set the jar with its contents in the sun for two 
or three days, taking it under cover at night. At the end of the 
third or fourth day small particles of yellow oil will be seen float- 
ing on the surface of the water, and which in the course of a week 
will have increased to a thin scum. The scum is the otto of roses; 
take it up with a little cotton tied to the end of a stick and 
squeeze it into a phial. 

Odor of J^lowers. 

The method pursued in the South of Fran ce by which all the 
better qualities of pomatum are obtained, consists in the prepara- 
tion of pure fat or lard and impregnating this with the odorifer- 
ous principles of the flowers. The purifying of the lard has to be 
done with the utmost care, as almost everything depends upon it- 
The lard is for this purpose washed on an inclined board with wa- 
ter, rubbing and working it all the while by means of a smooth, 
large stone, until the water runs off pure and clear. This fat is 
then filled into shallow pans, on which are thrown the flowers 
freshly cut. They are removed after 12 or 24 hours and replaced 
by fresh ones, until the lard is considered saturated. The pomatum 
is then filled into pots or bottles, and the bottles are tightly corked. 
If the fat is slightly rancid, a very much larger amount of flowers 



THE TOILET. 329 



I 



is required to render it frag-rant, and the odor never attains that 
fineness and delicacy it does with pure lard. 

Oil Essential — To Extract from Flowers. 

Take any flowers desired, which, stratify with common salt, and 
put them in a clean earthen glazed pot. When thus filled to the 
top cover it well and carry it to the cellar. Forty days afterwards 
put fine gauze over a pan and empty the whole, to strain the es- 
sence from the flowers by pressure. Bottle the essence and expose 
it four or five weeks in the sun and dew of the evening, to purify. 
A single drop of this essence, if rightly prepared, is enough to 
perfume a quart of water. 

Jjalls, C anijyhor^^or Chujiped Hands. 

Spermaceti and white wax, each three-fourths of an ounce; 
almond oil, one ounce. Melt and strain, and add three drachms of 
powdered camphor. 

A)nhrosial Hair Tonic. 

Take gum benzoin, two drachms; castor oil, four ounces; and 
alcohol, one quart. Shake well together, then add oil of lavender 
and oil of burgamot, each one drachm; oil of cloves, oil of rose- 
mary, oil of leuion, and oil of neroli, of each, thirty drops; tincture 
of cantharides, half an ounce. Shake well to cut the oils. Splen- 
did and nicely perfumed hair tonic to soften the hair, promote 
growth and prevent it from falling out or turning gray. 

Toe-nails — Tngrovjing. 

This most painful of the diseases of the nails is caused by the 
improper manner of cutting the nail, and then wearing a narrow, 
badly-made shoe, the nail beginning to grow too long, and rather 
wide at the corners, is often trimmed around the corner, 
which gives temporary relief; but it then begins to grow 
wider in the side where it was cut ofl", and as the shoe 
presses the flesh against the corner, the nail cuts more and more 
into the raw flesh which becomes excessively tender and irritable. 



330 THE TOILET. 



If this state continue long the toe becomes more and painful and 
ulcerated, and fungus or proud flesh sprouts up from the sorest 
points. Walking greatly increases the suffering until positive rest 
becomes indispensable. 

Tkkatment. — Begin the effort at cure by a simple application 
to the tender part of a small quantity of perchloride of iron. It 
is found in drug stores in a fluid form, though sometimes in powder. 
There is immediately a moderate sensation of pain, constriction or 
burning. In a few minutes the tender surface is felt to be dried 
up tanned or mummified, and it ceases to be painful. The patient 
who before could not put his foot to the floor now finds that he can 
walk upon it without pain. By permitting the hardened wood like 
flesh, to remain for two or three weeks, it can be easily removed 
by soaking the foot in warm water. A new and healthy structure 
is found, firm and solid below. If the nails are not cut around the 
corners or sides, but always curved in across the front end, they 
will in future grow only straight forwards and by wearing a shoe 
of good size and shape, all further trouble will be avoided. 

Another method is with a knife or a piece of glass; scrape the 
centre of the nail until it becomes almost as thin as the thin- 
nest paper, then cut the nail in the form of a cresent, the convex 
side being inward. This will compel the sides of the nail to grow 
outward in the natural way. 

To Remove ISuperJluoas Hair. ' 

When the eye-brows join, which is very unbecoming to some, 
they should have the hair taken out with tweesers and after a while 
it will stop growing, leaving no marks. iVpply cold water after their 
use. For hair on the arms wear a white flannel sleeve at night. 

Chapped Hands. 

Scrape bees-wax lightly into a small wide-mouthed bottle until it 
is nearly full; add a small piece of mutton-tallow and fill with olive 
oil. Set the bottle on the back of the stove and as soon as the wax 
is melted remove it and add twelve drops of otto of roses. This 



THE TOILET. 331 



will be found very nice for chapped hands. It is healing 
and is also good for sunburn. 

To Kemove Insects from the Ear. 

Let the })erson lay his head upon the table, the side upwards that 
is afflicted. Drop into the ear a drop or two of sweet oil. It will 
instantly destroy the insect and remove the pain, however violent. 

7^0 Cure Temporary Deafness. 

Temporary deafness arising from cold, sitting in a draught and 
other causes, may be relieved and cured by letting fall into the ear 
ten drops of a mixture of sweet oil and one of glycerine every 
night until the duct which leads from the ear to the nose is cleared; 
this will be known by the sensation of the fluid passing from the 
ear into the nostril. 

To Remove Dandruff. 

This is a natural secretion, but becomes a cutaneous complaint 
by neglect. Take one ounce of powdered borax, a piece of un- 
slaked lime the size of a chestnut and a tablespoonful of spirits 
of ammonia. Put them in a quart bottle and fill with soft or boiled 
water. In twelve hours it will be ready for use. Ladies can ap- 
ply it best with a fine sponge. Rinse with tepid water. After a 
few applications the scales will disappear, the hair becomes soft 
and brilliant and the yoimg hair will be seen to start out. Dand 
ruff should be cured gradually to prevent sick headache or dizzi- 
ness by its sudden suppression. 

An Excellent Wash for the Teeth. 

Two ounces of pulverized borax dissolved in two pints of boil- 
ing water; before cold add two teaspoonfuls of the spirits of cam- 
phor. A few drops in a little water for the teeth. It is not injur- 
ious to any fabric, and is also good to clean carpets. Dilute with 
water when used. Bottle for use. 



HOUSEKEEPING. 



This book, as its title indicates, is designed to be a guide to the 
])ractical housekeeper, or one who is trying to become such. 

Woman's sphere is the home, the management of her household, 
and the best interests of her family, should occupy the greater por- 
tion of her time and thought. " The modest virgin, the prudent 
wife, or the careful matron," says Goldsmith, "is much more ser- 
viceable in life than petticoated philosophers, blustering heroines, 
or virago queens." Her work is worthy an angel's life; no woman 
can claim a broader or higher sphere than she who places the home 
in its true relations and appreciates the dignity and blessedness of 
the house-mother's life. 

Into such a home God sends the inexperienced soul, to be guid- 
ed, trained and prepared to meet the increasing demand of each 
returning day. And the woman who takes up her life-work brave- 
ly, calling out all her energies, and the exercise of her best skill, 
may indeed find it hard discipline, full of mistakes and short-com- 
ings for a time, but the royal spirit will at last gain self-possession. 

But, after all, much depends upon early training. It is with the 
housekeeper as with the scholar : if childhood and youth are neg- 
lected, no application can repair the loss. Much of the embar- 
rassment and confusion of homes is attributable to the false ten- 
derness and affection of mothers, who spared their daughters every 
task, responsibility and labor, at a time when they should have 
been taught. Society must take its share of the blame, smiling on 
flippancy and show, ignoring personal application and labor as be- 
neath the dignity of woman. 



HOUSEKEEPING. 333 



The education of girls at home and at school is of- 
ten very superficial, failing to develop fitness for the varied duties 
and responsibilities of life. 

The intellectual training is often unworthy the name. It is at 
best too meagre and fragmentary to furnish any breadth of cul- 
ture and power. Nevertheless, we thank God that a few educa- 
tors are making heroic efforts to meet the increasing wants of the 
home. That housekeeping, as an experimental science, is now 
taught among the general exercises of the scholastic year. 

There are departments and instructors in "Cooking: demonstra- 
tions; Cooking: practice lessons; Dress-cutting, Millinery and 
Art Needlework." So that "general lessons are given in the arts 
of domestic life, the principles of dress, artistic house-furnishing, 
healthy homes, cooking, marketing, and all the principles which 
underlie the wisest management of homes." It is to be hoped the 
time will soon come when these branches will be taught in all our 
female institutions of learning, not as elective branches, but as part 
of the prescribed curriculum. A young lady enjoying the advan- 
tage of such a course, will find when she comes to assume the re- 
sponsibilities of the home, that "the head saves her hands." Meth- 
ods are simplified, ends defined, and forces combined directly and 
advantageously. An educated housekeeper will have confidence 
in her ability, and be free from fret and worry. She will have all 
the houseliold machinery so complete and perfect in its workings 
that it will run perpetually and noiselessly of its own will. From 
such a home the husband and father will go forth daily with fresh 
inspiration and a firmer purpose, and return in the evening to find 
a well-spring of strength and peace. It is not only housekeeping, 
but something more, it is homekeeping. 

It is not merely the mechanical performance of a round of du- 
ties each day, but it is an art that brings into use all the latent in- 
genuity, and requires a keen sense of the beautiful, with firmness 
and perseverance to overcome all the petty trials and diflficulties 
that are forever crowding around the housekeeper. 

Homekeeping is an art that needs just as finished an education, 



334 HOUSEKEEPING. 



and as thorough practice to become an adept as what are 
termed the "fine arts." If homekeeping is not one of the fine 
arts, what is ? To be sure, there is the coarser work, the same 
as there is in everything. The painter must know how 
to properly clean his brushes, and palette. He must mix 
his paints and oils, and if the picture does not suit, perhaps the 
canvass will have to be cleaned so as to commence aa'ain; but the 
toil is forgotten, for he works for an object, for a crowning beauty. 

Every young lady needs special preparation for the care of 
home. Perhaps it would be safe to suppose that eight-tenths will 
some day assume the responsibility of a household. Many of these 
doubtless will be surrounded with wealth and affluence, and have 
ample ability to keep a servant or servants, yet a knowledge of 
household management is indispensable. 

Emergencies will arise, the servant or servants will leave almost 
without notice, and a day or two, or perhaps more, will be necessary 
to supply their places. 

But if it were possible to never be without help from the begin- 
ning of married life until the close, the mistress will be put to a 
great disadvantage if she is without practical knowledge. The 
servants will soon make the discovery, and will not be slow to take 
any advantage it may afford. 

As we have given some general directions and a multitude of reli- 
able recipes on cooking, baking, &c., which if carefully followed will 
crown the efforts of the inexperienced with success, perhaps a 
more general view of household management will be necessary be- 
fore our work is completed. 







HOUSE-FUI^NISHING. 



It would be impossible to give specific directions on this sub- 
ject. We would like to help those who are trying to make pleas- 
ant, cheery homes, but have not the means to employ a professional 
decorator. But after all, where the furnishing of each room has 
been throughout, and perhaps worked out, by mother and daugh- 
ters, it has a value to father and sons far beyond one committed to 
some stranger to " furnish throughout as stylish as possible," at 
any cost. Its influence does not cease when it is broken up, but 
reaches down through generations in other homes. 

Harmony of color is of the first importance in furnishing. Not 
that the carpet, walls, curtains, chairs, etc., should be of the same 
color; that would make a room cold and uninviting. There should 
be two or three colors in a room, but these should harmonize. A 
carpet, for instance, should not be purchased without considering 
what the color of the paint is; and so of the sofa and chairs, if 
they are upholstered. 

A carpet is like the back-ground of a picture; it brings into ef- 
fect the whole. Styles for carpets have entirely changed within a 
few years. Patterns of huge boquets of impossible flowers used 
to be seen almost everywhere; now, a ver}^ small set figure, so small 
as to look almost like a plain color at a little distance, is in much 
better taste. This may be enlivened by a border of bright colors. 
The lovely pearl and gray grounds, with vines or tracery of a dar- 
ker shade, and bright borders of Persian patterns, are very desira- 
ble and look well with almost everything. The fashion of staining 
floors black walnut color for a yard or more around the walls, and 
having a square of bordered carpet in the centre, is gaining ground 
and much liked for the pretty style and the convenience of taking 
it up for cleaning. 



336 HOUSE-FURNISHING. 

There are now plain ingrain carpetings, in solid colors, called 
"filling," which are used around these centre rugs, instead of 
staining the floor. We have seen parlors carpeted with dark tur- 
quoise-blue filling, with Persian rugs over them, not in any set or 
regular order. The efEect was very good. Curtains are a very 
important part of furnishing. Of course there must be shades. 
There ought to be drapery, however simple; no one thing adds 
more to the pleasant, cheery look of a room. Shades are now sel- 
dom white, but tinted, either gray, cream or old gold color. They 
should never be of a very deep shade. Many use red for the 
dining room, but that color is better suited to some public place. A 
fringe about two and one-half inches wide, finishes the bottom. 
For drapery there are many beautiful and artistic patterns in Not- 
tingham lace, which is low-priced and durable. They may be se- 
lected to look so like real lace that they can hardly be distinguish- 
ed from it. The yellowish tint should be chosen, and in light pat- 
terns. Linen scrim, with inserting, and edging of guipure lace, is 
always handsome. Simple cheese cloth, plain or figured muslin, 
or cretonne, are all pretty. Heavy fabrics should be used only in 
large and richly-furnished rooms. They may be used with good 
effect for porticos, to hide or replace a door, or to separate rooms. 
Heavy lambrequins are not in style. Curtains are hung with rings 
on poles of brass or wood, and the lambrequin, if any, is straight 
cross, narrow or broad, embroidered or trimmed with fringe, or it may 
be a simple plaiting. Mantel lambrequins are a plain scarf across 
the front, with decorated ends hanging low. There is often as a 
background for ornaments [above the mantel a curtain, plain or 
plaited, of the material of the lambrequin, about half a yard wide, 
hung upon a rod with rings. This may be of velvet paper, headed 
by a narrow gilt moulding. Halls][are no longer the barren en- 
trances to the home, but are a part of it. Old and quaint chairs 
look well here, and if there is a window, a drapery curtain with a 
large plant on a small stand is very pretty. An ornamental um- 
brella stand is often seen in'halls, instead of the old heavy marble- 
top stand. 



HOUSE-CLEANING. 



Perhaps there is nothing so much dreaded as house-cleaning, 
and yet it has to be done twice a year — Spring and Fall. The 
male members of the family especially dislike this semi-annual 
revolution, and are anxious to be from home while it is going on. 
With proper management it can be done without destroying all 
the comforts of home. The house should not be all torn up at 
once, the furniture set out of doors, and the meml^ers made to feel 
they had lost their home. "Where this is done it will 
be very fortunate if any member of the household escapes a cold. 
But every housekeeper will have her own views about the mat- 
ter and we can only hope to make a few helpful suggestions. 

There is very little difference between the Spring and Fall clean- 
ing, one is about as important as the other. Before beginning house 
cleaning, all repairs that may be needed about the house should be 
attended to. If it be in the Fall, grates, stoves or furnace cleaned 
and put in perfect order, and the range or cook-stove looked after. 
And all the wood and coal as far as possible should be put in their 
appropriate places. At least once a year the coal-bins need to be 
thoroughly cleaned, and all dust and rubbish removed. In this 
way you can avoid so much dust being carried up stairs, when 
building the fires, to settle into the carpets and over the furniture. 
The cellar walls must be brushed down with a stiff broom, and all 
cobwebs removed, to be ready for white-washing. The cellar 
walls should be white-washed both Spring and Fall as a sanitary 
measure. As a rule, we think the Fall of the year the best time 
for white- washing, kalsomining and painting; the house is rdways 
21 



338 HOUSE-CLEANING. 

kept open a good deal during the Summer, and flies, spiders, and 
various insects will always deface the walls and paint. The wall- 
}iaper will always be soiled by dust, which should be removed as 
far as possible; this is best accomplished by taking a new broom, 
wrapping a clean cloth around it and sweeping with it from the 
top downward, with long, straight strokes, not up and down. This 
will remove the dust and greatly improve the appearance of 
the paper. Sometimes the paper will be soiled in spots, as where 
persons have allowed their heads to rest against it. In such cases 
it would be well to try a piece of stale bread from which the crust 
has been removed, using it upon the spots as if it were a piece of 
India rubber. 

You must be very careful in cleaning paint. Sand should nev- 
er be used upon painted or varnished work. You will succeed 
well by making a moderately strong soap-suds. Have at hand an- 
other pail of warm water, with a soft flannel cloth for each, and 
also a plate containing " whiting," or " Spanish white," to be had 
at all paint or drug stores. One flannel being wet with the soap- 
suds, dip it into the whiting to take up a small quantity, and gen- 
tly rub the painted work. The surface coating of smoke and oth- 
er matter will soon be removed. Then wipe the surface carefully 
with the other flannel, wrung out from the warm water, and the 
painted work will look " as good as new." 

After the rubbish is removed and the cellar put in good condi- 
tion, begin in the attic and work down until you reach the place 
of beginnings— the cellar. As far as you can, remove everything 
out of the room to be cleaned — any old clothing or carpets stored 
on the attic should be taken into the yard, brushed, and hung on 
a line to receive the benefit of sun and wind. The attic is usually 
a troublesome place to clean, because of the trunks, bags and boxes 
that constitute the furniture. Clean brushes, brooms 'and dust 
pans will be needed before beginning. Brush every cobweb from 
the walls with a long handled brush, and if the walls are 
plastered they should be swept down with a stiff broom. The 
dust should all be carried down in a pail. If the walls are hard- 



HOUSE-CLEANING. 339 

finish they can be washed off with some warm soap-suds and wiped 
dry. Then wash and polish the windows, and scrub all wood- work 
and floors with very hot suds; rinse off with hot water, made hot- 
ter with a good quantity of cayenne or red pepper. If used free- 
ly, this peppered rinsing-water will find its way into every crack or 
crevice in the wall or on the floor. Mice and rats will seek a 
cooler boarding place, and insects of all kinds will keep a respect- 
ful distance. 

When the attic is finished come down to the next story, and so 
on till all parts of the house have been faithfully cleaned. When 
the family is at home never undertake more than one or two rooms 
at a time. There is no reasonable excuse for making home so un- 
comfortable during house-cleaning. If you hire help, it will pay 
better to hire three or four persons and make short work of it. 
With a little management and a strong force this troublesome and 
annoying work can be made very short. Begin every room by re- 
moving everything that can be taken out. Take down the curtains 
and cover whatever you must leave in the room. Take up such 
carpets as need cleaning; have them taken to the back yard, 
stretched across a clothes-line and well beaten by a man, 
for this is not a woman's work. After they are thoroughly 
cleaned, and the rooms cleaned, they should be relaid by 
a man. Brush the upholstered furniture with a furniture 
brush, cleaning around each button or tuft. Turn sofas 
and chairs down, and beat them with a carpet or furniture whip; 
then brush again, and wipe the covers with a clean, damp cloth, 
to take off what dust may have settled. Take a basin of warm 
soap-suds and wash all the woodwork and carving with a soft cloth. 
Wash only a small part of one thing at a time, and then wipe dry 
as quickly as possible, and polish with a chamois skin. If left wet 
until the whole piece is well washed, the soap-suds may turn the 
varnish; but if carefully done it cleans the furniture of all finger- 
marks. 

The Question of Moths. 

There are two kinds of moths with which housekeepers are 



340 HOUSE-CLEANING. 

troubled and perplexed — the common and the "buffalo" or "car- 
pet moth." To preserve your woolens and furs from moths, ex- 
amine them carefully before you put them away, and then put 
them where the parent moth cannot enter. Some persons have tin 
cases made for this purpose, and after putting in the goods, have 
them soldered tight. If you take a piece of strong brown paper, 
with not a hole through which even a large pin can enter, you 
will find it just as good. Put the articles in a close box, and 
cover every joint with paper. For the extermination of carpet moth, 
the following has been recommended : Take a wet cloth, lay it 
over the place near the edge of the carpet, and use several hot flat- 
irons, moving them about from time to time so as to send the 
steam down through the carpet and into all the cracks of the floor, 
and it will kill the moths. 

During house-cleaning, wheii the carpets are up and the floors 
scrubbed and dried, take a small bellows, which comes for this pur- 
pose, and blow into every hole or crack that can be reached, cay- 
enne pepper, Persian powder or Pool's moth powder. 

Hov) to Air Apartments. 

It is a general practice to open only the lower part of the win- 
dows of a room in ventilating it, whereas, if the upper parts were 
also opened the object would be more speedily eff"ected. The air 
in an apartment is usually heated to a higher temperature than 
the outer air, and it is thus rendered lighter, and as the outer air 
rushes in, the warmer and lighter air is forced upward, and finding no 
outlet, it remains in the room. If a candle be held in a doorway 
near the door, it will be found that the flame will be blown in- 
ward, but, if it be raised nearly to the top of the doorway, it will 
go outward; the warm air flowing out at the top, while the cold 
air flows in at the bottom. A current of warm air from the bottom 
is generally rushing up the flue of a chimney, if the flue be open, 
even if there should l)e no fire in the stove; therefore, open fire- 
places are the best ventilators we can have for a chamber, with an 
opening arrangement in the chimney near the ceiling. 



HOUSE-CLEANING. 341 

Carpets and Siceeping. 

A coarse broom as a matter of economy, should never be used 
for carpets, as it tears off the surface and soon wears even the 
coarser parts. There are different qualities of brooms to be had, or 
where factories are near they can be made to order and as fine as 
the material will permit. A stiff brush is better for very fine car- 
pets. These can also be made to order at brush manufactories. 
A fine carpet preserves a clean appearance longer if, after sweep- 
ing, it is wiped over with a damp cloth, which removes all the 
dust that settles after sweeping. Fine parlor carpets, unless much 
used, do not require a thorough sweeping oftener than once a 
month, though frequent brushing up may be required. Where 
there is a large family, or the carpets are much used, they should 
be shaken frequently, as that removes the sand and dust which 
grinds them out. Do not undertake to sweep the whole house in 
one day. This will overtax your strength and make it a burden- 
some duty. We would suggest Thursday as a suitable day for up- 
stairs sweeping; do it so well that each bed-room will smell fresh 
and new. Friday, sweep halls and stairs, and all down stairs; and 
disarrange but one room at a time. Wear dust-cap and mittens 
whose wristlets extend over the dress-sleeve. With neatly-combed 
hair, tidy-dressed feet, and a working dress in repair, you need 
not be ashamed if some fashionable gentleman should catch you 
at your work. It would be well if all housekeepers could avail 
themselves of the fashion of covering the centre of the room 
only with carpet, leaving a margin around it for heavy furniture 
to stand upon, thus saving the strain of lifting and pushing, 
which is such a tax and injury at house-cleaning times. The 
floor beyond the carpets can be stained and varnished, or paint- 
ed to suit the tints of the carpet. For common carpets a 
broad binding would serve as a border. Grease may be extracted 
from carpets by the use of benzine. It may require considerable 
rubbing, but if you persevere it will disappear. It is said that 
chloroform will remove grease from carpets or any kind of woolen 



342 HOUSE-CLEANING. 

goods. "Carpet sweepers" save a great deal of labor, and should 
be in every home. They are intended for daily use, but not for 
thorough cleaning. In the weekly sweeping you must use the 
broom. First pin a cloth to your broom and brush away cobwebs; 
and then sweep your room twice with the broom. 

Dust and DuHtlncj. 

This is one of the unpleasant duties which every housekeeper 
shares, but like everything else, can be made much easier if sys- 
tem'atically arranged. At a very small expense you can procure 
dusters. Cheap prints will answer the purpose. These should be 
spread over ' such articles as are found difficult to dust — books, 
statuary, carved woodwork, etc. One large duster should be kept 
for covering beds when sweeping the chambers. After the sweep- 
ing, when the dust is done settling, carry the dusters out-doors and 
give them a thorough shaking. Always keep on hand cotton 
cloths for dusting, the softer the better, and nothing is better than 
old silk handkerchiefs; with these wipe off every article of furni- 
ture. But dusting, like cooking, is an art that must be studied 
and understood, but like cooking it is an art that some never learn, 
and dust remains on the furniture from one house-cleaning to an- 
other. 

Kalsomimng . 

This is not so common nowadays, since papering ceilings has 
come into vogue. But if the ceiling is kalsomined it should be 
done before you paint or paper. This is much superior to white- 
washhig, and very little more expensive. There is a smoothness 
and a glaze which is a great improvement to the style of the interior 
of the house. However, it requires care and judgment in the se- 
lection of the not expensive materials, and above all, skill in apply- 
ing it to the wall. You will find the following receipt reliable. 
The process shovild be commenced by soaking four ounces of glue 
in a quart of warm water for twenty or twenty-four hours; then 
a pint of water should be added; and the vessel (of tin or other 
thin metal) should be placed in a kettle of hot water over a fire. 



HOUSE-CLEANING. U3 

the glue being agitated till it is thoroughly dissolved and the solu- 
tion quite clear. Put five or six pounds of powdered Paris-white 
into a large bucket, and add hot water sufficient for the mixture to 
be of the consistency of cream; then mix the glue water with it, 
stir it well and paint the walls with the mixture with the common 
white-wash brush. It is of the greatest importance that the kalso- 
mining mixture be spread very smoothly, and to secure this, a lit- 
tle hot water must be added, if the stuff be too thick for easy and 
level application. The quantities above given are sufficient for 
two coats in a large room. 

Pifpering. 

If the walls are hard-finished, or have been white-washed, a so- 
lution of white glue should be applied with a white-wash brush. 
The first thing in order is a preparation of paste. This is made 
by taking wheat flour, after sifting, put into a vessel, and with the 
hand stir it, adding water, cold or tepid. Begin with it 
pretty thick, as the lumps can be gotten out better. Stir 
till they are all out. Thin pretty well. Have ready an iron 
pot on the stove, water boiling. Turn starch into the hot water 
and stir to keep it from burning. Let boil till the flour is cooked. 
If too thick, add more hot water. It should be pretty thin when 
done, as it thickens as it cools. Let it stand until it is cold. Pro- 
cure a board of sufficient length and breadth; better to have the 
board as near the width of the paper as possible. Nowdays the 
paper is nearly always trimmed when purchased, if not it must be 
before it is hung upon the wall. Lay your paper upon the board 
with the right side up; measure the wall from the top to the base 
board, then measure the paper the same and see if it will match 
right to cut. Cut all the full breadths for the room before you 
commence papering, matching as you cut. Then turn all ovei" at 
once. Always begin at the right hand and work to the left. Be- 
gin to hang at a door or some place where, if you cannot match 
when you finish, it will scarcely be recognized. Never turn a 
corner, but cut the paper as it will adhere better and make a bet- 



344 HOUSE-CLEANING. 

ter job. Apply the paste with a good whitewash-brush. When 
ready to hang turn the bottom end of the paper up a yard or more. 
This will let it swing at the bottom until ready to finish, and it will 
go to its place without trouble. Always fasten at the top first. 
After seeing that it will match right all down the joint and not lap 
over, make a crease at top of base board with shears and cut off 
the waste. Use a soft cloth or towel to rub the paper down. This 
must be touched very gently or the colors on the paper will run. 

Concluding JReynarks. 

It is a common saying, "A woman's work is never done." This 
trite saying every housekeeper has found to be true. But while 
it is never done, with proper management there will be hours for 
rest and mental improvement. The heavier work should be so 
graded that each day will come in for its share of the burden. 
We would suggest the following classification: Monday, washing, 
rain or shine; this will necessitate a drying-room or balcony. 
Tuesday, ironing and baking. Wednesday, clean pantries and 
cupboards, drawers, and the cellar. Thursday, sweep up-stairs. 
Friday, sweep halls and stairs, and all of down-stairs. Saturday, 
clean the kitchen, bake and prepare for Sunday. Let every Sat- 
urday afternoon be a rest and recreation. Make Sabbath as near 
as you can a day of rest. Your highest ambition should be to 
make home beautiful and attractive. As you are the Queen of 
the circle, make yourself as lovely as you can. Never let an af- 
ternoon come without dressing with taste. By doing this you will 
have time to improve your mind. Keep up, if not with the ad- 
vanced thought of the day, at least with the current events of the 
day. 



THE SICK FipOM. 



As a room of this kind is required in every home, a little space 
given to this subject will be appreciated. The prevailing opinion 
that any chamber with a bed in it will answer the purpose is erro- 
neous. It is sad enough to be confined to a bed of illness, but to 
be shut up in a small, dingy, uninviting room, greatly aggra- 
vates the situation. It should be the largest, best lighted and 
ventilated room in the house. The appearance and condition of 
the room will have great iufluence upon the spirits of the sick. 
The very best and finest chamber you have in the house should be 
used for that purpose. 

Sunlight and fresh air are nature's own restoratives, and should 
never be excluded. Admit the rays of the sun to the fullest pos- 
sible extent, for sunlight is one of the most powerful chemical 
agencies in nature. According to the best medical testimony, 
some of the most remarkable cures have been produced by simple 
exposure to the full rays of the sun. Proper ventilation is equally 
important, but it is one of the most difficult things to obtain in a 
sick room. The foul gasses generated from day to day, must be 
removed, but expelled in such a way as not to expose the patient 
to the currents of cold air. An open fire-place in a room is one of 
the best ventilators that can be secured, but in the absence of this 
by raising a window a few inches from the bottom and leaving 
another one down from the top in an adjoining room, with the door 
open between the two,'will give sufficient draft to expel all the foul 
gasses. 



346 THE SICK ROOM. 



The bed should be so arranged as to give the sick an easy view 
of out-door, as the eye will soon tire gazing on the walls of the 
chamber. 

We are told that " cleanliness is next to godliness;" this should 
be scrupulously regarded in the sick-room, as it will go far to 
stamp out infectious disease, and contribute largely to the patient's 
recovery. The sheets and pillow cases should be changed often, 
the mattress should be hair, and, if possible, the bed should be 
freshly made morning and evening. In case of severe illness, the 
patient can be moved, without changing position, in the following 
manner: Bring another bed into the room, with low bedstead, 
and place the head of one bedstead against the foot of the other. 
Secure two straight poles about six feet long; have two persons on 
each side of the bed facing each other; roll the sheet around the 
poles until within six inches of the patient's body. This forms a 
stretcher, and by taking a firm hold the patient can be lifted into 
the fresh bed without injury. After resting, the sheet can be 
slipped out from beneath the body. This being done, the mattress 
and pillows of the bed just vacated can be taken into another room, 
the windows raised, and the bed completely aired. The sick be- 
come very tired lying, hence changing and shaking up the bed will 
contribute greatly to ease and comfort. Above all, the sick-room 
should be quiet, the attendants should move with ease, and the 
doors opened and shut with great caution. As a rule, visitors 
should be excluded, especially while the patient is very sick. There 
is not one out of ten that knows how to talk in a sick room. You 
often hear the following expressions: " How badly he looks;" " I 
did not expect to find him so reduced." Many a poor fellow has 
been talked to death by well meaning and sympathizing friends. 

Sponging the body regularly is of great value, but this should 
always be done under the direction of the attending physician. In- 
deed, whether sick or well, bathing is indispensable to health. 
Chamber utensils, after using, should not be allowed to stand, but 
instantly removed and cleansed. As a rule people try to exercise 
some care in the selection of a physician, but seem perfectly indif- 



THE SICK ROOM. u: 



ferent about the qualifications of the nurse. A good nurse is of 
the first importance; a mistake here may cause the death of your 
friend or loved one. Remember nearly everything depends upon 
the nursing. A good nurse will be kind, gentle, and decided, with 
sufficient judgment and calmness to act in any emergency. 

Diet and rogiinen should be carefully studied, and should at all 
times be under the direction of the attending physician. As a gen- 
eral rule, the food should be light, nourishing, and easily digested; 
and the drink such as nature has graciously furnished to satisfy 
the thirst. Pure fresh water is preferable to all other drinks, and 
when necessary a little raspberry, strawberry or currant jelly may 
be added to suit the taste. Good fresh milk, buttermilk, rice-wa- 
ter, barley-water, toast-water, chocolate and weak black tea. 

Fruit. — All kinds of ripe fruits not of an acid quality, such as 
apples, pears, peaches, plums, grapes, raspberries, strawberries, 
blackberries, sweet oranges, melons, and such other as are not 
known to disagree with the patient. 

Vegetables. — Irish potatoes baked without paring, green peas, 
beans, especially lima beans, asparagus, squashes, rice, hominy, etc. 

Bread. — Bread made out of rye flour, or unbolted wheat flour, 
is preferable. Light puddings made out of rice, farina, cornstarch, 
tapioca, and bread. 

Meats. — Tender beef, mutton, venison, chicken and wild game. 
In acute or inflammatory diseases, animal food is seldom allowable. 

Beef Tea. — This is very nutritious, and should be administered 
in nearly all kinds of sickness. Directions how to prepare this, as 
well as all other kinds of diet for the sick, will be found in this 
book. 

In cases of inflammation of the stomach or bowels, as soon as a 
little improvement sets in, give a little rice gruel, farina, arrow- 
root gruel, or a little milk. Solid food should not be allowed until 
the stomach can bear it without exciting pain. 

Ix DiARRHCEA. — The diet should consist of light, unirritating 
food, such as well-boiled rice, oatmeal gruel, farina, good, fresh 
milk, mutton broth thickened with flour or rice, and fresh crackers 



348 THE SICK ROOM. 



broken in milk or made into a gruel with milk. Acid fruits, eggs, 
fowls, game, fish, and the like, should be avoided. In chronic 
cases a more generous diet may be allowed. 



Ci^ uit.nLii ' li inui ' Villi j i,iii.niiT7 i i.,Mi Tt ..Miiii/iU.j,|_iu i nn;i ' iilitiin ' rriu i,<i.M.iiu 7niii ' iu ' in .^ 




i rjiii]iti »^ iiii3 »j LiJ L ^ trrijiitrrrrinijnia3 



MEDICAL F(JECEIPTS. 



Receipt for Vomithig. 

I^et the patient drink hot water very freely, just as hot as it can 
i)e taken. At the same time immerse both hands in hot water up 
to the wrists. Flannel cloths dipped in hot water, and doubled 
four or five times, and laid on that part of the body affected with 
pain, will i^ive almost instant relief. 

For Sprains. 

Apply a poultice made of equal parts of salt and lard. This will 
give instant relief and reduce the swelling. There is nothing bet- 
ter. 

For Uruises. 

Tincture of arnica, one drachm; alcohol, four ounces; mix well. 
Saturate cloths in the same and apply to diseased parts. 

iSiinr/s of' Bees., etc. 

Examine the parts with a magnifying glass, and if the sting be 
left in the wound extract it with a pair of small tweezers, or, if 
these cannot be had a sharp penknife will answer. Then apply 
dilute aqua ammonia, (spirits of hartshorn) strong saleratus water 
or camphor. Onion juice is also a good application. 

Bites of /Snakes. 

Soon as possible after being bitten, have the poison well sucked 
out. No danger can arise from this unless the person sucking has 
sores on his lips or in his mouth. Give from one to four drops of 



350 MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 

tincture of iodine every hour until the danger is passed. (This 
remedy can be had at any drugstore.) 

Poisoning. 

If by any accident poison has been taken into the stomach, as 
soon as the discovery is made an emetic should be administered. 
Take freely of warm water, or mix a tablespoonful of powdered 
mustard seed with a tumblerful of warm water. This will soon free 
the stomach of its contents. But as there are so many different 
kinds of poison, and the treatment must vary according to the 
kind of poison taken, the only safe rule is to send for a physician. 
The emetic, however, should be taken at once. 

Cough Mixture. 

Take a pint of vinegar, a teacupful each of honey and molasses, 
and a small handful of hoarhound leaves, bruised; simmer over the 
fire fifteen or twenty minutes, then strain, squeeze out, and add an 
ounce each of wine of ipecac and tincture of lobelia. Dose — a tea- 
spoonful or two as often as required. 

Another Cough Mixture. 

Tincture of blood-root, syrups of ipecac and squills, tincture of 
balsam of Tolu, and paregoric, equal parts of each. Dose — half a 
teaspoonful whenever the cough is severe. 

Bleeding at the Lungs. 

Eat freely of raw table salt, or take a teaspoonful three or four 
times a day of equal parts of powdered loaf sugar and rosin. 

^our tSto7nach. 

Temporary relief is often had by the use of some ant-acid — as 
a teaspoonful of super-carbonate of soda in a little water. But 
strange as it may appear, acids often do the most good — such as 
a weak solution of lemon or citric acid, or often the juice of a 
lemon. 



MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 351 

Colic. 

Bathe the feet and legs in hot water, and apply hot fomenta- 
tions, such as a poultice made of hot herbs, mustard, hot salt, or 
hot water over the stomach and abdomen. If this does not relieve, 
drink freely of peppermint, ginger or calamus tea, or warm lem- 
onade. If it still continues, give from thirty to sixty drops of par- 
egoric in a little warm water, or twenty-five or thirty drops of 
laudanum. 

IHarrhfea. 

Tincture of rhubarb and compound spirits of lavender, of each 
four ounces; laudanum, two ounces; cinnamon oil, two drops. 
Mix well. Dose — one teaspoonful every three or four hours, as 
the case may demand. 

Costiveness. 

The practice of taking physic to cure constipation, is productive 
of vastly more evil than good. Purgatives will increase the diffi- 
culty, but never cure it. Proper attention to diet is of the first 
importance. Use bread made of unbolted flour. Ripe fruits and 
vegetables may be eaten freely, also dried fruits, such as apples, 
peaches and prunes. In obstinate cases it will be necessary to re- 
sort to a syringe. The injection should be in large quantity. 
Tepid water, with a little hog's lard stirred in, will be suitable. 

Piles. 

External Applicatiox. — Inner bark of the white oak tree, 
boil and strain, and boil again until you obtain one-half pint of 
the extract, very thick; then add one-half pint of the oil of the 
oldest and strongest bacon you can procure; simmer together un- 
til a union takes place when cold. Then apply by the finger up 
the rectum every night until well. While using abstain from 
stimulating diet. This is a great remedy. 

Ague Cure. 
Take quinine, twenty grains; water, one ounce; sulphuric acid, 



:}52 MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 

twenty drops; mix in a vial. Dose — a teaspoonful every hour, or 
every two hours during the well day, till all is taken. 

Sick Headacfie. 

The following is said by a physician who has often tried it to be a 
valuable remedy: Two teaspoonfuls of finely powdered charcoal, 
drank in a half tumbler of water, will, in less than fifteen minutes, 
give relief to sick headache. 

T'oothache. 

Alcohol, one -half a pint; tincture of arnica and chloroform, of 
each one ounce; oil of cloves, one-half an ounce. Mix, and if 
there is a nerve exposed this will quiet it. Apply with lint. Rul) 
on the gums also. 

(Jure for Corns. 

Take one-fourth of a cup of strong vinegar, crumble into it 
some bread; let it stand half an hour, or until it softens into a 
good poultice; then apply on retiring at night. In the morning 
the soreness will be gone, and the corn can be picked out. If the 
corn is a very obstinate one, it may require two or more applica- 
tions to effect a cure. This is said to be an infallible cure. 

Salve — For Bums, Frost-Bites, Sc. 

Equal parts of turpentine, sweet oil and bees- wax; melt the oil 
and wax together, and when a little cool add the turpentine and 
stir until cold, which keeps them evenly mixed. Apply by spread- 
ing upon thin cloth — linen is preferable. This is equally good for 

chapped hands or lips. 

British Oil. 

Linseed and turpentine oils, of each, eight ounces; oils of am- 
ber and juniper, of each, four ounces; Barbadoes tar, three ounces; 
Seneca oil, one ounce. Mix well. This is a great remedy for 
sores, bruises and swellings of every description. 

The Shaker Ctirefor Felotis. 

Immerse the finger and hand, or even the whole arm, if necessary, 



MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 353 

in water as hot as can be borne, until the pain is gone, and the 
core is loosened and drawn from the bone. 

S^iperior Tooth Poxoder. 

Take any quantity of precipitated chalk, and twice as much pul- 
verized charcoal; make very fine; then add a very little suds made 
with Castile soap, and sufficient spirits of camphor to wet all to a 
thick paste. Apply with the finger, rubbing thoroughly, and it 
will whiten the teeth better than any tooth powder you can buy. As 
it is hard on the enamel, it should not be used over once a week. 

Another Tooth Poxoder. 

Precipitated chalk, which can be gotten at any drug-store very 
cheaply. This will never injure the teeth, and should be used 
once or twice per day. 

To Prevent Nightmare. 

Eat nothing after 3 o'clock r. m., and you will never be troubled 
with this suffocating disease. 

Bleeding at the JVose. 

Roll up a piece of paper and pass it up under the upper lip. In 
obstinate cases blow a little gum Arabic up the nostrils through a 
quill, which will immediately stop the discharge. Powdered alum 
is also good. The bleeding can mostly be stopped by making the 
patient raise both his arms above his head, and hold them there 
for some time. As a last resort take lint or cotton wool, soak it 
in a solution of alum, and plug up both nostrils. 

Bleeding at the Lxcxigs. 
A prominent physician relates a case in which inhalation 
of' very dry persulphate of iron reduced to a palpable pow- 
der, entirely arrested bleeding from the lungs when all other 
remedies failed. A small quantity was administered by draw- 
ing into the lungs every hour during part of the night and 

following day. 
22 



354 MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 



Sore Throat. 

Dissolve a tablespoonful of chlorate of potash in a tumbler of 
water and gargle with it. Make a poultice of worm wood, boiled 
in sweet milk, and apply it to the throat. 

Hoarseyiess. 

Take one drachm of freshly-scraped horse-radish root, to be in- 
fused with four ounces of water in a close vessel for three hours, 
and made into syrup with double its quantity of vinegar. A tea- 
spoonful has often proved effectual. 

To Avoid Cold Feet. 

Wear two pairs of stockings of different material; one of silk 
or cotton, the other of wool. The two fabrics serve to keep in the 
natural heat of the feet. 

To Cure Cold Feet at Bed-time. 

Take off the stockings before undressing and rub the ankles and 
feet with the hands, as hard as can be borne, for five or ten minutes. 
This will diffuse a pleasurable glow, and those who do so will never 
complain of cold feet in bed. Frequent washing and rubbing 
them thoroughly dry with a linen cloth or flannel, will be of great 
value. 

To Cure Wens. 

I removed a wen that had been growing for some time on my 
eye-lid, and threatened to cover the eye, by an application of salt- 
water. I kept a solution of salt, as strong as it could be made, 
in a small vial. This I applied, perhaps, twenty times a day. 

Good Healing Salve. 

Take rosin and beeswax, of each, two ounces; sweet oil, eight 
ounces; melt together, stirring till cold. This will be found good 
for common sores. 



MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 



]55 



Arnica Liniment. 

Take one drachm of tincture of arnica, and four ounces of al- 
cohol ; put them into a bottle, and shake well. This will give great 
relief to persons suffering with pains in the feet and limbs, from 
walking. Good for recent sprains, bruises, and contused wounds, 
and for rheumatism of the joints. 

Scratches, 

However trifling, should never be neglected. Apply immedi- 
ately court-plaster large enough to cover the wound. 



' ^mm 



Be ,^E»«,vrnTr >ax.' . . ' .i.i ,^g«S,' , I ' i.h ^anta i ; ; ; i ; ^jga,','; ■ " , ■; ^jD^.Trnrr ,^7Trm ^isMTrrrrr ..ai^SYvS ^^^^^vn ^'iJ, . . , .W jfi 



FANCY WOF(K. 



Table Scarf. 

One yard and a half of black satin; line with crimson satin, em- 
broider on one end golden rod and daisies; on the other tuffed 
coxcomb. Finish the ends with old gold and crimson balls. 

Lambrequin. 

Make of light blue felt and oblique across the centre sprays of 
cretonne flowers; scallop the edge and trim with tassels made of 
the blue felt. 

Bed Spread. 

Stripe down the centre of pale blue figured sateen one yard wide; 
edge on either side of pink flowered cretonne, one-fovu'th of a yard 
wide; sew on either side of the pink flowered cretonne a pufi" of 
pink sateen half a yard wide. Bind the edge half a finger length. 
deep. 

Lace and lUhboti Tidy. 

Two stripes of wide insertion. Three stripes of satin ribbon.- 
Embroider one strip with rose buds, one with daisies, one with 
wheat heads. The ribbon and insertion are of equal length. The 
tidy is longer than it is wide. A row of wide lace edges these 
joined sections all around. Antique, torsion and heavy laces are 
preferred on account of their being more durable. The daisies 
may be worked in either Kensington or satin stitch, the centres of 
the daisies being usually done in French knots. 



FANCY WORK. 357 



Handkerchief Case. 

Take blue or rich cardinal plush. It is made of two pieces cut 
in the desired size, and square in shape. Each square is pink or 
light yellow satin lined with a thin sheet of cotton perfumed with 
whatever you may have a preference for. Each square is lined 
separately and quilted in diamond design, and lapped over in 
pocket fashion on each end, so that the handkerchiefs cannot slip 
out. The squares are now joined together on the inner side with 
narrow ties of pink ribbon, so that they fold like a book, and so 
form the case. Decorate the top with embroidery or painting. A 
spray of Autumn tinted vine or yellow daisies gives a rich look to 
the blue background. The edges of both the upper and under 
squares are finished with a box pleating of the satin, and a satin 
ribbon bow is placed on each corner, while a loop of ribbon is used 
to lift up the lid. It can be made of any material — satin, velvet or 
plush. 

Wooden Mocker. 

An old-fashicned little wooden rocker that has seen hard service 
for a score or more years can be converted into a most fashionable 
piece of furniture. Paint the back and rockers black, then apply 
a coat of varnish, which will make it look like ebony. Pad the 
seat, and cover the padding with a piece of unbleached muslin, 
tacking it down neatly. Cover the cushion with crazy patchwork, 
and fasten with olive and crimson satin ribbons. Add a large bow 
to one corner of the back. The whole thing when finished pro- 
duces a dainty and comfortable effect. 

Shaving Case. 

Cut out'two pieces of light blue silk or satin about eight inches 
long and six broad. Upon one side embroider in old gold the 
monogram of the person for whom the case is intended. The 
letters must be rather large to show handsomely. Upon the other, 
work a pretty pattern of flowers. Those who can paint can deco- 
rate in that way. Line the inside with a contrasting color of silk, 



358 FANCY WORK. 



and bind neatly. Tie together at the top with bows of ribbon of 
the color of the binding. Put an elastic across to hold the leaves. 
Put in mostly of white tissue paper, but vary them now and then 
with light colored ones. Plush may be used for the outside, orna- 
mented with gold or silver. 

Glove Box, 

Take an ordinary oblong box, line with quilted pink silk, and 
cover the outside with pink silk. Over this place broad Oriental 
lace. Remove the rim of the cover and cover with pink silk, the 
top ornamented with the lace the same as the sides. Fasten the 
top to the box with bows of narrow pink ribbon. Pink Silesia 
may be used in place of silk with good effect. 

Pin Cushion — N'o. 1. 

Make a pin cushion of pale blue satin; in one corner embroider 
a spray of daisies; in the opposite corner a bow of pink satin rib- 
bon and a pink and blue pom pom set in front of the bow. Trim 
the edge with broad. Oriental lace. 

Pin Cushion — iVo. 2. 

Make a pin cushion of pale blue satin; paint in the centre one 
water lily with four buds; trim the edge with deep lace and set a 
small bow on each corner. Or, make it of white and paint a spray 
of Autumn tinted vine, and put double box pleats very close to- 
gether around the edge of the cushion ; then put white lace around 
the cushion, tucking the plain edge of the lace down between the 
ribbon, pleating and cushion. 

Plush Framed Clock. 

Small, round, gilt clocks are made into handsome mantel orna- 
ments when set in a plush panel and placed on a brass easel. A 
board, three-quarters of an inch thick, with beveled edge, should 
have an opening made in the center just large enough to admit the 
clock. A piece of blue or crimson plush is cut to fit the board, 
and embroidered with arrasene and silk in some appropriate de- 



FANCY WORK. 359 



sign arranged partially around the opening, or a branch thrown 
carelessly across. The board is then neatly covered with the dec- 
orated plush, the lining on the back when blind stitched on, will 
finish the edge. Place the clock in the opening made for it, and if 
carefully fitted it will need no other fastening. 

Tidies. 

The newest tidies of macromi card are made of one strip of open 
work in the center. A piece of ribbon is divided into equal parts; 
a small cluster of flowers is either painted or embroidered on those 
parts which will appear on the right side when run in and out 
through the open work. 

Sjiectacle Case. 

Take two pieces of pasteboard, six inches long; two inches at 
one end and three at the other; each covered on both sides with 
silk, and the two sewed together, leaving an opening at the top. 
This is suspended by a silk cord or ribbon, which is fastened to 
the waist of the dress with a handsome pin. It can be decorated 
if desired. This size will hold two pairs of spectacles. 

Plush Frame. 

To make a plush frame for a photo or picture. Make the frame 
of cardboard; cut the opening for the picture a little to one side, 
not in the center. Cut it either oval or straight, according to your 
preference. Cover one side with plush of some favorite color. 
Embroider a vine or spray on the broad side of the picture. Fas- 
ten the plush neatly around the opening for the photo, then put in 
a sheet of glass a little smaller than your frame; on this lay the 
picture. Have ready a piece of cardboard; cover on one side with 
silk or satin; lay the plain side on the back of the picture, and sew 
neatly the plush frame and the silk-covered back piece together. 
Fasten a large hair-pin to the back and it is finished. 

Table Scarf. 

One y*rd and a half of eld gold felt, embroider with silk and 



3t>0 FANCY WORK. 



crewel, a spray of wild roses on one corner, on the other a bunch 
of poppies. Cut the ends into fringe, four inches deep. 

Cradle Quilts. 

Cut out the size required in both pink and white. The lining 
is of the white, and can be laid aside till the pink piece is worked, 
and ready to be tacked to it. At the top of the coverlet lay on a 
piece of white sateen to simulate a flap turned back, but not at the 
edge, but the depth of the flap below the edge, three to three and 
a-half inches. The appearance is as if the pink sateen had been 
split and turned back to show the white lining. The flap should 
be worked with a row of crewel flowers, roses and forget-me-nots. 
The flap is edged with the same lace as the whole of the coverlet. 
The two corners at the bottom of the pink sateen are turned back 
to match in the same style, and worked in gray silk or crewels into 
which the stalks pass slanting wise. This style is more difficult 
than ordinary crewel embroidery, and looks pretty and uncommon 
on the little cradle. If preferred, the corners and flap can be em- 
broidered in arrasene, and be a pink on a coverlet of pale silver, 
gray or cream. Another novel arrangement is a quilted sateen or 
sateen coverlet, with a band of white all around, on which is sewn 
lace painted with ordinary water colors. The lace is ordi- 
nary white lace, with a defined pattern, and this pattern is painted 
over with, for instance, a pink kind of rose, touched up with a 
darker shade when dry, and green leaves, or a blue scroll,. worked 
up in the same way. It is easy and pleasant work, and effective. 
It is put on rather full, so that the delicate covering shows more 
than the pattern. — Toledo Ulade. 

Carriage Pillov\ 

The pillow is made of down feathers or whatever is preferred, 
put in a case of strong fabric and then covered. This dainty pil- 
low covering for baby while enjoying an afternoon airing in his 
carriage is made of light blue surah, upon which are embroidered 
graceful sprays of small flowers that look as if they had been 



FANCY WORK. 361 



showered upon the pillow. The sprays may be embroid- 
ered solidly or worked in the South Kensington stitch. A frill of 
deep lace trims the pillow all around, and dainty little bows are 
set on each corner. It can be made of pink, white or any other 
shade. Silk may be used instead of surah. 

Bahy Carriage Pilloxc. 

Make the pillow case of blue Silesia; on this fasten on the upper 
side a soft cover of darned net, with an edge of torsion. Place 
small bows of narrow blue ribbon, made unlike each other, on each 
corner. At other times a plain white pillow case edged with Ham- 
burg or torsion will be very nice. 

Wall Pocket. 

A simple and handsome wall pocket can be made from a bath- 
ing-slipper. The slipper is formed of coarse brown straw or split 
willow splints woven into braids that are sewed together to form 
it. The heel of the slipper acts as a covering and is bent down to 
close it. The pocket is bound with plain ribbon and finished with 
ties and bows of the same. The color and texture of the lining 
and trimmings may depend upon the prevailing color of the room 
in whicli the pocket is to be hung; or upon individual preference. 
Satin is the prettiest lining and cardinal red the richest hue. 

Sofa Pillow. 

A pretty sofa pillow is made by taking two pieces of light blue 
satin, and shirring them; have a piece of red brocaded ribbon an 
inch and a half wide, on either side of which join with some fancy 
stitch a piece of black velvet two inches wide, which is either em- 
broidered with a little vine or worked with two or three fancy 
stitches; when this is done, join the pieces of blue satin, one to 
each piece of velvet, in the same way that you did the velvet tf» 
the red ribbon. Line with blue flannel and finish with a cord. 

Knitted Torsion Lace. 
Cast seventeen stitches. First row: Plain. Second row: Knit 



362 FANCY WORK. 



three, turn over twice, seam two together, knit two, turn over 
three times, narrow, knit six, turn over twice, seam two to- 
gether. Third row: Turn over twice, seam two together, knit 
seven, knit first loop, seam second, drop third, knit two, turn over 
twice, seam two together, knit three. Fourth row: Knit three, 
turn over twice, seam two together, knit eleven, turn over twice, 
seam two together. Fifth row: Turn over twice, seam two to- 
gether, knit eleven, turn over twice, seam two together, knit three. 
Sixth row: Knit three, turn over twice, seam two together, knit 
two, turn over three times, narrow, turn over three times, narrow, 
knit five, turn over twice, seam two together. Seventh row: Turn 
over twice, seam two together, knit six, knit first loop, seam second, 
drop third, knit one, knit first loop, seam second, drop third, knit two, 
turn over twice, seam two together, knit three. Eighth row: Knit 
three, turn over twice, seam two together, knit thirteen, turn over 
twice, seam two together. Ninth row: Turn over twice, seam two 
together, knit thirteen, turn over twice, seam two together, knit 
three. Tenth row: Knit three, turn over twice, seam two together, 
knit two, turn over three times, narrow, turn over three times, 
narrow, turn over three times, narrow, knit five, turn over twice, 
seam two together. Eleventh row: Turn over twice, seam two to- 
gether, knit six, knit first loop, seam second, drop third, three times, 
knitting one between the three loops, knit two, turn over twice, 
seam two together, knit three. T^velfth row: Knit three, turn 
over twice, seam two together, knit ten, bind off all but two (by 
slipping the twelfth stitch over the eleventh and so on until there 
are only two on the left hand needle), turn over twice, seam two 
together. Thirteenth row: Turn over twice, seam two together, 
knit ten, turn over twice, seam two together, knit three. Repeat 
from second row. 

Ihrsion Inserting. 

Cast on sixteen stitches. First row: Flahi. Second row: Thread 
over twice and seam two together, knit six plain, then bind off 
three on your left needle by slipping one over the other, thread 



FANCY WORK. 3G3 



over twice, seam two together, knit one plain, thread over twice, 
seam two together. Third row: Thread over twice, seam two, 
knit two plain, then knit the loop so as to make two stitches, by 
first knitting it plain, then seaming it, knit plain until you come 
to the last two, thread over and seam two together. Fourth row: 
thread over, seam two together, knit twelve plain, thread over and 
seam two together, repeat from second row. 

I7)fants'' Shirts. 

High neck and long sleeves. Use small bone needles, and three- 
thread Saxony yarn; two ounces required for each shirt. 

BoRDKR. — Cast on seventy-eight stitches. Frst row: Knit 
across plain. Second row: Seam across. Third row: Knit 
across plain. Fourth row: Knit first stitch, put yarn over, knit 
three, narrow twice, knit three, put yarn over, knit one, yarn over, 
knit three, narrow twice, etc., repeating pattern to end of needle, 
which must exactly correspond to first end. Fifth row: Seam. 
Sixth row: The same as fourth row. Seventh row: Seam. Eighth 
row: Same as fourth row. Ninth row: Knit. Tenth row: Seam. 
Eleventh row: Knit. Twelfth row: Same as fourth row. Thir- 
teenth row: Same as fifth row. Fourteenth row: Like fourth row. 
Fifteenth row: Like fifth row. Sixteenth row: Like fourth row, 
and so on, repeating until there are four finished pattern rows; that 
is, four times three rows of eyelets with the ribbing between, and 
five ribbed rows. In going across last row of border narrow six 
stitches, leaving seventy-two. Knit forty-six times across, knitting 
and seaming two alternately. Now to shape the shoulder, narrow 
one at each end of needle every time across, until there are forty- 
four on needle, and bind ofE. This forms the back. For front: 
After knitting border as for back, knit and seam thirty-six times 
across. Take off one-half the stitches on another needle and knit 
ten times across; now narrow on outside end of needle every time 
across until there are twenty-eight stitches on needle. On inner 
end of needle (or middle of front) bind off three stitches, every 
other time across, (this is to hollow the neck,) continuing the nar- 



364 FANCY WORK. 



rowing for shoulder as before until all are bound off, leaving yarn 
sufficiently long to sew shoulder seam. Knit up the other half of 
front in same manner; sew up shoulder and sides on wrong side, 
leaving space for sleeves. For sleeves, cast on forty stitches, using 
medium sized steel needles. Knit and seam two alternately, thirty 
times across. Widen twelve stitches, making fifty-two by taking 
up loops at equal distances. Substitute bone needles and knit and 
seam as before, forty times across. For gussets, widen one stitch 
at each end of needle every other time across, until there are six 
additional on each end, or sixty-five in all. Bind off, sew up and 
insert in the body. Finish the cuff by crocheting a narrow edge, 
and neck in the same manner, commencing at opening and leaving 
off at same ]3oint. Ribbon or cord, according to fancy, may be 
used to draw the neck. 

A7iother. 

Cast on seventy-two stitches; seam off plain. First row: Knit 
across plain. Second row: Take off first stitch, knit four, put 
thread forward, knit one, put thread forward, knit one, knit three, 
slip and bind twice, knit three, thread forward, knit one, thread 
forward, knit one, knit three, narrow last two stitches. Third row: 
Seam across plain, narrow last two stitches. Fourth row: Repeat 
the second row. Fifth row: Knit across plain. Sixth row : Seam 
across plain. Seventh row: Knit across plain, narrow last two 
stitches. Eighth row: Repeat, commencing at second row; make 
seven ribs on right side, then seam two and knit two for body, fin- 
ishing off at top with a row of holes. For sleeves cast on sixty 
stitches, make three ribs, finish off with holes over the shoulder. 
Use two-threaded Saxony yarn. 

Tarn 0''Shanter Cap. 

Cast on six stitches, and crochet round these stitches a flat piece, 
widening at intervals to insure this, and until this head-piece is as 
large as you may desire it, when crochet one round without in- 
creasing. Crochet the succeeding rows, diminishing in the same 
proportion as you increased, and work the head-band with either 



FANCY WORK. 3G5 

increasing or decreasing, taking the stitches through both edges of 
the loop. Nine or ten rows will be sufficient for this band. It 
should be crocheted tighter than the other part of the cap. 

Crochet Silk Baby-Hood. 

Use Brainard & Armstrong's silk, No. 300, and a fine steel 
crochet hook. Terms used: s. c, or single crochet. Having a 
stitch on the needle, pass the hook through the next stitch, draw 
thread through and throw thread over, and draw through the two 
stitches on the needle. D. c, or double crochet. Throw thread 
over, pass hook through next stitch, draw thread through, throw 
thread over and through two stitches, over again and through the 
last two stitches. Ch. st., or chain stitch, simply draw thread 
through stitch on needle. Sh. st., or short stitch. After 
crocheting the chain, pass needle through center stitch of 
the shell, and draw the thread through that stitch and the one on 
the needle. Make 10 ch. st. and join ends. First row: 25 s. c. 
over the chain ring. Second row: S. c. in every stitch of first 
row. Third row: Two s. c. in every other stitch, and one 
s. c. in each stitch between. Continue making- the second and 
third rows alternately until there are 3 rows altogether and thien 
crochet two rows plain. Then come the rows of shells. First 
row of shells: 6 d. c. in every fifth stitch. Second row of shells: 
10 d. c. in the center of each shell of first row, and a sh. st. be- 
tween each shell. Crochet a row of ch. st. by making a sh. st. 
in center of each shell of second row, chain 4 and a sh. st. in 
center of next shell and so on around. Next make a plain row of 
1 s. c. in each stitch of the chain row. On this, make a row of 
d. c, leaving 25 stitches for the neck of hood. Then a row of s. 
c. in each d. c. of last row. Make two more rows of shells as be- 
fore, then the three plain rows, two more rows of shells, and thus 
continue till the hood is large enough. Finish by making three 
plain rows entirely round the hood and then make the following lace 
all around. Lace. — First and second rows: Just plain shells, as in 
the two rows of shells. Third row: 4 ch., skip one stitch, draw 



336 FANCY WORK. 



the thread through the next stitch without throwing thread over 
needle — that is, make a sh. st., 4 chain sh. st. in second stitch, 
etc., around. Fourth row: Make a sh. st. in center of 4 ch. of 
preceding- row, chain 4 a sh. st. in same scallop, 2 ch., sh. st. in 
next scallop, 4 ch. and repeat around hood. Sew a ribbon bow at 
the back of the neck, a ribbon bow on one side of the front to- 
ward the top, and ribbons to tie under the chin. 

Bahy''s /Socks. 
These dainty little pieces of footwear for baby may be made of 
silk. They are lovely and so warm, and wear much longer than 
when made of wool. But if you use wool, take either Saxony or 
split zephyr. Set up a chain of thirteen stitches or any uneven 
number, then crochet around this row, widening at either end and 
in the middle of one side. Repeat this for about five rows, then 
contmue crocheting the same, only widening in the center alone 
until the instep is made. Your own judgment will be the best 
guide to tell you how deep this should be. Now you have come 
to the heel, which may be made of silk, and the little toe might 
have also been done in silk, if the other part of the sock is in wool. 
Divide the piece you have crocheted in half, take up the stitches 
on the plain half (not on the piece with the point oil it), and cro- 
chet in double crochet seven rows, or as many as you think will be 
necessary. Double this heel piece together and join in single 
crochet. Turn the point over on the front of the sock and take 
up the stitches in double crochet, and make the stocking in shell 
stitch, making as many rows as you wish the stocking to be long. 
You may finish the top with a row of scallops in silk. Baby blue 
and white or baby pink are favorite colors for these socks, or all 
white, with a ribbon run in around the ankle. A ribbon is to be 
preferred to cord and tassels, as the latter are always getting in a 
tangle so provokingly at the most importune times. 

Infa7it''s Sacks. 
Make a chain of one hundred and ten stitches. First row: Turn 
and make one d. c. (double crochet) stitch in each of the next three c. s. 



FANCY WORK. 367 

(chain stitch), then three d. c. in the fourth c. s., then one d. c. in 
each of the next three c. s., then skip two c. s. and proceed as be- 
fore twelve times. This forms, when the sack is finished, twelve 
points — two for each front, two for each shoulder, and four for the 
back. Second row: Same as first row, only make five d. c. in the cen- 
ter stitch or shell instead of three. Third row: Make one d. c. in 
each of the next four stitches, then three in shell, etc. Fourth row: 
Same as third, only five in shell. Fifth row: One d. c. in each of 
the next five stitches, and three in shell. Sixth row: Five d. c. 
and three in shell. Seventh row: Five d. c. and five in shell. 
Eighth row : .Six d. c. and three in shell. Ninth row: Six d. c. 
and five in shell. Tenth row: Crochet seven d. c. and three in 
shell twice, then skip two points and crochet the same on the next 
four points, then skip two points and crochet the same on the next 
two points. Eleventh row: Seven d. c. and three in chain. 
Twelfth row: Seven d. c. and five in chain.. Thirteenth row: 
Eight d. c. and three in chain. Fourteenth row: Eight d. c. and 
three in chain. Fifteenth row: Eight d. c. and five in chain. 
Sixteenth row: Nine d. c. and three in chain. Seventeenth row: 
Nine d. c. and three in chain. Eighteenth row: Nine d. c. and 
three in chain. Nineteenth row: Nine d. c. and five in chain. 
Twentieth row: Ten d. c. and three in chain. Make as long as you 
desire and crochet a pretty border all around. For the sleeve 
crochet on the shoulder; where the two points were left make 
four points, and widen or narrow as your taste may dictate, and 
make a border around the sack and sleeve to match. Run ribbon 
around the neck, and it is very pretty with ribbon run lengthwise 
through the sack between the points. This makes a great im- 
provement, but is not necessary. For infants make of split zephyr, 
and for children between two and three years, make of Shetland 
floss, with blue border and ribbon to match. 

Silk Mittens. 

Two balls of Florence knitting silk, two rather coarse knitting- 
needles, and a medium sized crochet hook. Wrist, cast sixty-four 



368 FANCY WORK. 



stitches on the knitting-needle. First row: Seam across. Second 
row: Plain across. Third row: Slip one thread over, knit two, 
narrow twice, knit two*, thread over, knit one, thread over, knit 
two, narrow twice, knit two, repeat from * to the end, where you 
put thread over, knit one. Fourth row: Seam. Fifth row: Plain. 
Sixth row : Same as third. Continue the third, fourth, and fifth 
rows until the twenty-fourth row, where you slip stitches and bind 
off. Take the crochet hook and fasten the wrist together — slip 
stitch or mitten stitch — loop on hook, put hook through the half 
stitch nearest you, put thread over hook and draw through, stitch 
and loop on needle. Crochet several rows, havii;ig sixty-four 
stitches around. Setting thumb: Widen each side of a middle 
stitch by putting two stitches in one, then widen every other row, 
always having an odd number between the widenings. Widen to 
twenty-three stitches between, for thumb. Hand: Join outsides 
of thumb by a chain of three, crochet around once and count 
stitches. If more than sixty-four, narrow from the chain of three. 
Crochet to top of little finger. Divide the number of stitches by 
four, and narrow by taking two together four times, every time 
around, being careful to narrow in the same place every row. 
Thumb: Take up the stitches and narrow on the chain until you 
have twenty-six, then crochet to the thumb-nail and narrow off as 
in the hand, sew up the wrist. The wrist can be made smaller only 
by taking nine stitches away. The hand and thumb can be made 
larger or smaller by widening or narrowing. 

Knitting Abbreviations. 

k, knit; p, purl or seam; p. 2 tog, purl two together; n, narrows; 
s and b, slip and bind; t. t. o., throw thread over; b, bind; o, over; 
p, plain; m, make. 

Crocheting Abbreviations. 

1, loop; s. c, single crochet; d. c, double crochet; ch. st., chain 
stitch; cl. ch. St., close chain stitch; d. c. St., double chain stitch; 
p, picot; r. c, ribbed crochet; c. t. st., crossed treble stitch; s. h. st., 



FANCY WORK. 369 



shell stitch; o. s. st., open shell stitch; t, treble; m, make. 
JBahy^s Boots. 

Cast on fifty stitches blue zephyr. First row: Knit backwards 
or purl so that your knitting will be right side out, *kl., tto., kl., n. 3 
tog., kl., tto.; repeat from star to end of needle; this makes eight 
points. Second row: Take white zephyr, knit across plain. Third 
row: Knit back same as first. Fourth row: Same as second. 
Fifth row: Same as first. Sixth row: Take blue, k. plain. 
Seventh row: Same as first. Eighth row: Take white, k. plain. 
Tenth row: Plain. Ninth and eleventh rows: Same as first. 
Twelfth row: Take blue: k. plain. Thirteenth row: Plain, but 
have wrong side of knitting come on right side of boot. Four- 
teenth row: n. 2 tog., tto.; repeat to the end of needle. Fifteenth 
row: Knit stitches and loops wrong side on right of boot. Six- 
teenth row: Plain. Seventeenth row: Take white, k. plain, right 
side out. Eighteenth and nineteenth: Wrong side out; next two 
rows right until you have knit five strips wrong side out. Knit 
across plain. Next row k. 10, take 6 for a twisted stripe; twist by 
taking first 3 on extra needle, knit other 3, then knit three taken 
off. k. 18, then take 6 for twist off on other side; twist same as 
before. Next row purl all but twisted stripe, which must be right 
side out. Next row plain; next row purl, etc., twisting every 
eighth row and narrow at each end of the needle every time you 
twist. Continue to knit and purl until you have twisted four times 
and four rows more. Then take sixteen stitches from middle of 
needle for top of foot, leaving remaining stitches on other needle. 
Knit these sixteen stitches same as top of leg, two rows plain, and 
two purl; six strips of each. Leave your needle in the toe. Take 
up stitches on the sides of the piece just knit; second and third 
rows, wrong side out; fourth and fifth, right until you have three 
strips wrong side out. Knit across plain. Take stitches ail on 
two needles, turn wrong side out, double together, take one stitch 
from one needle, one from the other, knit, repeat, and bind first 

stitch over new one till all are bound ofE, sew back of leg together, 
33 



370 FANCY WORK. 



crochet a chain and draw into the holes at the knee, and finish 
with little tassels. Knit on good sized needles. Take nearly 1^ 
ounces of white and ^ ounce of blue zephyr. They are very pret- 
ty with pink or buff in place cf blue. 

Crochet Terms. 

Single Crochet. — Insert your needle in the upper edge of the 
chain stitch on the work, and draw the thread through the work, 
thread over and through the two loops on the needle. 

Double Crochet. — Catchf^the thread over the needle, insert it 
into the work, draw the thread through, thread over, through two 
holes, thread over and through two holes. 

Treble Crochet. — Catch the thread over the needle, insert it 
in the work, draw the thread through, thread over, then through 
one loop, thread over and through two loops, thread over and 
through two loops. 

Crocheted Slijypers. 

Use double zephyr worsted and crochet quite tight. It takes 
about four ounces for a pair. First make a chain of thirteen 
stitches; in each chain stitch make one short crochet stitch, not 
putting the thread over the needle. In the next row make six 
short crochet stitches, taking up the back of each stitch in the pre- 
ceding row. In the back of the seventh, which is the middle stitch, 
make three short stitches; crochet the last six like the first six. 
This makes fifteen stitches in this row. Do the same in every row, 
always putting three stitches in the middle stitch, and always tak- 
ing up the back of the stitches in preceding row, until you have 
eighteen rows. Start the next row like the others, but only take 
up twelve stitches, and do not widen. Then make twelve stitches 
back and continue this until the strip is long enough to go around 
the heel and sides of the sole, then ioin to the first twelve stitches 
of the eighteenth row. Crochet a shell border around the top, run 
in ribbon or cord made from the worsted, and sew to a cork or 
lambswool sole. These directions are for a number four shoe. To 



FANCY WORK. 371 



make larger or smaller, increase or decrease the number of chain 
stitches. 

Bahij Afghan. 

Crochet in Afghan stitch five strips, three of scarlet, and two of 
black. Use scarlet for centre stripe, put center work of callas and 
leaves, using one shade of cream white, and for shades of olive 
green, for the callas let the leaves be shaded from light to dark 
green. Upon the black, which comes next, embroider a vine of 
shaded green leaves. Let the leaves be shaded from light to dark. 
Upon the outer scarlet stripes embroider shaded pink and cream 
rosebuds and green leaves. Knitted scalloped border in shaded 
scarlet for the edge is pretty. The strips may also be made of 
delicate pink for the centre, pale blue each side, and buff for the 
outer ones. The colors for the embroidery must be chosen with 
reference to its ground work. * 

Parlor Ball. 

Cast 30 stitches of any light colored yarn or worsted upon a 
coarse steel knitting-needle. Knit across once in plain knitting, 
then knit back plain, leaving the last stitch unknit upon the first 
needle. Turn the work around and knit back 23 stitches, leaving 
one stitch unknit at that end of the needle. Then turn the work 
again and knit back until within two stitches of the end of the 
needle. Continue in this way leaving one more stitch at each 
end each time until you have 10 unknit stitches left at each end of 
the needles. Then knit across, knitting all the previous unknit 
stitches. This forms one gore. Now fasten or tie on another color 
of yarn and proceed the same as before. Knit six gores; bind off 
the sixth gore and securely fasten the ends with a needle. Sew 
the opening about half way upon the wrong side, then turn, and 
stuff with cotton batting, shape with the hand as you stuff it, so as 
to make it round. Sew it up a little way at a time until the seam 
is closed. A ball can be made of twine for an older child and this 
knitted cover slipped over it. 



372 FANCY WORK. 



Knitted Mltteiis. 

Four fine knitting-needles. Cast twenty-one stitches on two 
needles, and twenty-four stitches on the other. Knit three and 
seam three until you have a wrist two inches long. Now commence 
the thumb, in the middle of the needle, where three stitches are 
knit plain, make a stitch on each side of the center-stitch making 
five instead of three. Widen in this manner every seventh time 
around, until you have twenty-one stitches for the thumb. Slip 
these twenty-one stitches off on a strong thread, make or cast 
in three stitches, join the work and finish the hand, knitting three 
and seamipg three until of the right length, then narrow off quick- 
ly, every three stitches. Pick up the twenty-one stitches with 
seven other stitches taken up where the thumb joins the hand, and 
knit the thumb plain, narrowing it off as in plain mittens. Cro- 
chet a border on the wrist in accordance with your own taste. 

Toy Heins. 

Knit of coarse yarn, Germantown wool, Seine twine or common 
wrapping cord. The two last named do well crocheted in double 
or treble stitch and are quickly made. If wool is used. No. 12 
needles are required. Cast on fourteen stitches and in plain knit- 
ting knit a length of four yards for the reins. At each end of the 
reins a half yard is formed into a loop in which to place the arms. 
Two pieces of half a yard each run from arm to arm at the front 
and back. Work the name of the child on the front and add little 
bells to the front and back. 

Point Lace. 

In purchasing patterns you will find two varieties — " old point " 
and " modern point " to choose from. The modern point patterns, 
you wnll find, are of good designs usually, but the filling in or 
groundwork consists of a network of irregular twisted threads, with 
a few medallions cut from honiton braid in rosettes and circles. 
This description of work is flimsy, useless and unwashable stuff. It 
is best to choose those of a design formed by the plain narrow 



FANCY WORK. 373 



braids and fill in all the intervening spaces with the real lace net- 
work of stitches, using the straight twisted stitches very sparingly. 
Old point patterns are very popular and are made in imitation of 
the ancient laces, the woven braids following the designs of the 
hand wrought web. A beautiful narrow braid, No. 212, has a her- 
ring bone pattern in the centre, and is very nice and durable for 
old point as well as modern point. Five cents per yard is the usual 
price. Plain braids are from three to eight cents; fancy, from five 
to ten; honitons, from five to twelve; purl edging, from one to six 
cents per yard; very narrow, firm braids are sold at three cents 
per yard; linen purl edge of good quality costs three cents per 
yard. These are the correct retail prices. You are most likely 
to find these at bazaars and fancy goods dealers and variety stores. 
Patterns for ties or Jabot's tie ends and barbe points or tabs, will 
cost you ten cents each, printed on red or pink cambric. Linen 
patterns are much more expensive. A pattern may be drawn on 
Domestic or Deraorest transparent pattern paper. Line this pa- 
per pattern with cambric and your lace may be worked over it. 
Patterns and materials for those small articles mentioned will cost 
from thirty to fifty cents each. Button's nun's linen-laced thread, 
ten cents per skein, is the best to use — Nos. 3 to 6. No. G is fine 
enough for any durable lace, and is beautiful for oakleaf or any of 
the knitting patterns. Architect's transparent tracing linen is very 
nice to work lace over and transfer patterns. Point De Arms is 
corded on the lace edge of the meshes by sewing once through 
each mesh. In returning^ the thread to the ritrht, each row is 
corded. Point De Venise is made i^y commencing at the right and 
making one mesh, as in Point De Bruxelles. Draw the thread 
back to the starting point snugly and hold it there firmly, while 
you make four or five close button-hole stitches over these two 
threads that form the right side of the mesh. This makes a tiny 
scallop on the right side of the mesh. Make a row of these scal- 
loped meshes and a plain row of Point De Bruxelles in returning, 
to the right. In this plain row put another row of scallops, pro- 
ceed in this way to fill the space. These scalloped meshes are 



374 FANCY WORK. 



very much used instead of purling on the edge of all kinds of 
point lace, and it makes a beautiful, firm-edge ornament. 

Point Bruxelles may be made diagonally in very large rows 
across large spaces. These close rows alternating with very long 
meshes give shaded waving stripes that are very pretty for large 
places. Point de Lorento makes an edge ornament in this way; 
make two close stitches and then leave the thread loose in the form 
of a short loop; repeat in the rows. — The Household. 

Feather Edged Braid Trimming. 

Fasten the thread to a loop in the braid. Chain seven stitches, 
put the needle in the second loop from where you commence, 
draw the thread through the loop and the stitch on the needle, 
chain four more and fasten in the next second loop, then take up 
three more loops by putting the needle through each one and 
drawing the thread through the loop, and the stitch on the needle, 
chain four stitches and fasten as before, chain four more and fas- 
ten, take up eight loops as the three were taken, chain two and 
fasten around the last four chain stitches, chain two more and fas- 
ten in the second loop from the eight taken up stitches, chain two 
and fasten around the next four chain stitches, chain two and fas- 
ten in second loop, then take up three loops, chain two, fasten 
around the four chain stitches, chain two, fasten in second loop, 
chain two more, fasten around the seven stitches, chain four, fasten 
in second loop, double the braid together from this loop, and on 
the right side of the work, take up a loop of each piece of the 
braid, draw the thread through these loops, leave the stitch on the 
needle, and so continue until all have been taken up, as far as the 
loop above the eight taken up stitches on the opposite side of the 
braid, then draw the thread through two stitches at a time until only 
one stitch remains on the needle, then commence the second scal- 
lop same as before. Crochet across the top of the completed edg- 
ing to sew on by. It washes and wears better to crochet a chain 
of three between each loop on the lower edge, except those close 



FANCY WORK. 375 



between the scallops, simply drawing the thread through these. 
The needle must be fine and straight. 

Open 'Work Stocking Pattern. 

Cast on one hundred and forty-nine stitches. First row: Knit 
around plain. Second row: Seam two, plain three, seam two, slip 
and bind, plain five, and so continue all around. Third row: Seam 
two, plain three, seam two, slip and bind, plain four and repeat. 
Fourth row: Seam two, plain one, thread over, plain one, thread 
over, plain one, seam two, slip and bind, plain three. Fifth row: 
Seam two, plain five, seam two, slip and bind, plain two, etc. 
Sixth row: Seam two, plain five, seam two, slip and bind, plain 
one, etc. Seventh row: Seam two, plain two, thread over, plain 
one, thread over, plain two, seam two, slip and bind, etc. Eighth 
row: Seam two, plain seven, seam two, leave thread in front of 
needle, plain one, thread over, and brought in front of needle, etc. 
Ninth row : Seam two, plain seven, seam two, plain three, etc. 
This forms one leaf and a half; commence and repeat till long 
enough. 

Fancy Stocking Shell and Twist. 

We will simply give the pattern, then those who like can knit a 
'stocking with it any size desired. It looks equally well in wool, 
cotton or silk. The twist looks well in any shade, but the shell 
shows best in delicate tints. Cast thirteen stitches on four knitting 
needles; knit around plain three times. First round: knit one, 
thread over, knit one, thread over, knit one, thread over, knit one, 
thread over, knit one, thread over, knit one, thread over, knit one, 
seam one; this forms the shell. Now take the first two stitches of 
the left hand needle off on a darning needle, letting the needle 
rest on the inside of the stocking. There are now three stitches 
left on left hand needle; knit two of these, now replace the stitches 
from darning needle to left hand needle, being careful not to twist 
them; knit them (2), seam one; this forms the twist. Second 
round: knit thirteen, seam one, knit four, seam one. Third round: 
slip and bind one, knit nine, narrow, (knit two together), seam 



37G FANCY WORK. 



one, knit four, seam one. Fourth round: slip and bind one, 
knit seven, narrow, seam one, knit four, seam one. Fifth 
round: slip and bind one, knit five, narrow, seam one, knit 
four, seam one. Every fifth round forms a shell and twist; the 
desio^n can readily be seen when about the third shell and twist 
are formed. They look well knit separately, with plain knitting 
between all of shell or all of twist. Fancy mittens can be made 
over this pattern. 

T^ine Pattern in Knitting. 

This is a very handsome pattern for tops or insteps of ladies' 
stocking's, in cotton or Florence silk, which is much used for knit- 
ting. Cast on any number of stitches than can be divided by sev- 
en, as seven stitches make the pattern. First row: slip and bind, 
knit five, thread over, repeat second row, slip and bind, knit four, 
thread over; repeat third row, slip and bind, knit three, thread 
over; repeat fourth row, slip and bind, knit two, thread over; re- 
peat fifth row, slip and bind, knit one, thread over; repeat sixth 
row, slip and bind, thread over; repeat seventh row, narrow, knit 
one, thread over; repeat eighth row, narrow, knit two, thread over; 
repeat ninth row, narrow, knit three, thread over; repeat tenth 
row, narrow, knit four, thread over; repeat eleventh row, narrow^ 
knit five, thread over; repeat twelfth row, same as the second row; 
thirteenth row same as the third row; and so on. It is also a very 
pretty pattern for a tidy by knitting the pattern rows, and purling 
across on the other side. 

Crocheted Hoods. 

You can knit them in any stitch, afghan, baby-ribbed, single, 
double or even triple crochet stitch. Set up a chain two inches 
longer than a tight fit around the head where the front of the hood 
comes. Knit a plain strip about five inches wide. On the long edge 
of this work one double crochet, one chain in second stitch, 
one double crochet, one chain across. Make four triple 
crochet looped over first double crochet of preceding row, 
one chain in chain of preceding row, four triple crochet over 



FANCY WORK. 377 



next double crochet, one chain caught in the foundation 
between the double crochets. Continue this across. It is 
a sort of a fluting "which should stand out from the foundation. 
Make a second row joining it to this for the front. Put one row 
across the other side for the back. For the crown, if it is knit, af- 
ghan or baby stitch, it must be knit crosswise. Set up a chain 
four and one-half inches long, knit plain back and forth until it is 
within four inches of half the length of the long strip, then narrow 
every other time in baby stitch and every other time in afghan 
stitch until it is two and one-fourth inches shorter than half the 
long strip, then knit plain once. Put the center of the long strip 
amd the center of the narrowed end of the crown together, and 
crochet or sew them. If the knitting be done in the other stitches 
make the crown lengthwise, but in the same shape. Crochet 
around the bottom a row like this: one double ci-ochet, one chain, 
one double crochet, one chain in the second stitch, and continue 
across. This is for a ribbon to draw it up with. Then crochet a 
row of shells like this: Three double crochets, one chain, three 
double crochets in one square, catch the yarn in the next square, 
three double crochets, one chain, three double crochets, and con- 
tinue. Next row, three double crochets, one chain, three double 
crochets, caught in chain of shell in first row, three double crochets, 
one chain, three double crochets in chain of next shell, and so on. 
Make six rows for cape. Put a bow in the center of the back and 
one on top and leave the ends of ribbon that go through the holes 
for strings. 

Fluted Ruffling. 

Materials: Saxony, No. 40, one-eighth pound, for skirt. Use 
coarse knitting-needles. Cast on twelve stitches and knit straight 
across once. First row: Knit three, purl nine, (to purl means seam- 
ing like the heel of a stocking.) Second row: Knit nine. Third 
row: Purl nine^ leaving three on the needle. Fourth row: Knit 
twelve. Fifth row: Knit twelve. Sixth row: Purl nine. Seventh 
row: Knit nine. Eighth row: Purl nine. Ninth row: Knit nine. 



378 FANCY WORK. 



Tenth row: Knit twelve. The three stitches left on the needle, 
from which the others are knit, form a heading and must be knit 
plain every time. Each flute has five rows and can be made 
heavier by adding more rows, or deeper by casting on more stitches 
though always leaving the three for heading. 

Knitted StocJcijigs. 

Put forty stitches on each of three needles, if yarn is fine, and 
knit around several times, one plain, one purled, and when enough 
has been ribbed knit plain, leaving a seam stitch in the middle of 
one needle, a finger length from the ribbing, narrow within one 
stitch each side of the seam, the first time knit two stitches together,; 
the last time take off one stitch and knit one, then slip the unknit 
one over the knit one, this is called slip and bind, and makes it look 
better than narrowing, the common way, both sides. Narrow this 
way eVery three-fourths of an inch till the stocking is small enough 
for the ankle. Knit half a finger or more, then divide half the 
stitches on one needle, leaving the seam-stitch iu the middle, put 
the rest of the stitches on two needles and knit and turn back and 
forth for the heel, till it is three-fourths of a finger in length, then 
count in ten stitches and knit, then narrow and knit till within 
three of the seam and narrow again and one beyond the seam, then 
slip and bind and when within twelve of the edge, slip and bind again. 
Do this every time you knit across the right side, till the narrowing 
comes together, then knit half way on the seam-side and fold the heel 
together double, and with the end of one of the needles, with the 
stitches, knit the seam-stitch and narrow one, from each side,both at 
once, and draw the seam-stitch through; do the same till all are nar- 
rowed off, this is called binding off the heel. Take the one stitch left 
and pick up and knit every stitch down the side of the heel, widen- 
ing every fourth stitch, and knit on your needle four stitches from 
the instep needles; knit all but four of the rest of them on one 
needle, and the four on another needle and proceed to take up the 
stitches on the other side of the heel, widening every fourth stitch, 
till vf u reach the last stitch ; now knit down the other side to within 



FANCY WORK. 379 



six stitches, and narrow, and on the other side knit four and slip 
and bind, then turn back and knit across the instep needlej and four 
stitches on the other side, when take off one and knit one and turn 
your knitting round, slip and bind,and knit around to the same place, 
narrow, and every other time do this, it is called knitting back on 
the instep, till you have been back four times, then narrow each 
side till the loot by measurement is a little smaller than when you 
set the heel. Knit the foot as long as you want. To narrow off 
the toe narrow every seventh stitch and knit around plain seven 
times, narrow every sixth and knit around six times, then every 
five and four and three and two and one, then narrow all off to one 
and the work is complete. Fasten with a darning-needle. Take 
off the first stitch of the heel without knitting'. 



Tr=Jf^=jf^=jf^=Jr^=Jr^=ir^=ir^=jf=Jr=Jt=Jr==Ir=^ r 

! ' ;;/;'^ ' ;;Vi':;;i'i'lVW7'Vi;V;'ril'H''l'i;'i;!!'A'i.! ' l ' ii'i;f!TrT^'i'nv;^^ 



jI P^^|,v,M7,^J,!^l,uiyJ,UJy.!Afly,t,w,l,y^UJyl.uJ,lfJ:^ly,^u/,;M.u.l,y■A^ly.!A:l,v.^t^;,y,l,^fx;^ 
l ^r==ii^=Jt^=Jf^=ii^=if==Jf==ii==Jt^=Jp^i^=ii^=Ji==if==Jr^air==ir==Jr^=ir==ir==ir==irf 



FLOiyCULTURE. 



To have early Spring flowers, if we are depending upon annuals 
to make a fine display, we must prepare our boxes and plant our 
seed a month or six weeks in advance. For this purpose I select 
such varieties as mature quickly and bloom constantly. 

The Verbena, Phlox, Pinks, Patumia, Pansy, Cassia, Memo- 
phila, Tropaolum, (Nasturtium,) Calliopsis, or Ceoreopsis, Candy 
Tuft, Sweet Alyssum, Mignonette, Portulacca, Marigold, Dwarf 
French, and Amaranthus, a foliage plant which is remarkably bril- 
liant; Phlox Drumondi, noted for its brilliancy and variety pro- 
ducing a constant mass of blooms. 

I select my Pinks from the Summer Garden varieties — Diam- 
thus, Chinensis. Comprising many distinct and beautiful varie- 
ties, they bloom continually all Summer. Nemophila is a very 
pretty annual, with blue and white flowers; blooms freely all Sum- 
mer. 

Tropaolum (Nasturtium) : The dwarf varieties are excellent for 
masses of bloom, particularly on poor soil where others fail; 
Crimson Rose, scarlet mixed. Calliopsis (or Coreopsis) is one of 
the best annuals of every shade of yellow, orange, and rich reddish 
brown. Candy Tuft is one of the most useful annuals, of the eas- 
iest culture, and can be had in bloom the whole season by succes- 
sive sowings, white, purple, crimson, etc. Marigold, Dwarf French, 
is well known, free flowering plant, with handsome double flowers 
of rich and beautiful colors. The beauty of our loveliest flowers 
is greatly enhanced by tasteful blending of shades or brilliant con- 
trast of colors. I like to sow seeds of mixed colors, each unfolding 



F[.ORICULTURE. 381 



bud gives such pleasant surprises, and re-arrange until the results 
give perfect satisfaction. 

Much pleasure can be derived from ribbon or Mosaic beds. 
These are made by massing various colors together so as to make a 
pleasing contrast. The bed is laid out in sections and each section 
is planted with a different color, care being taken that the contrast 
is pleasing to the eye. Either foliage or blooming plants may be 
used. The Couleus has been much used for this purpose for sev- 
eral years past and is always satisfactory where one can give some 
time and care to watering, trimming, etc. But some varieties do 
not like the wind and sun to which certain localities are exposed, 
and care must be taken in the selection of varieties that will suit 
the location. 

Some of our annual bloomers which are inexpensive and can 
readily be raised from seeds prove very satisfactory; orle of these 
is the Portulaca. It is a constant and profuse bloomer, and few 
flowers are so bright and attractive. The only objection that can 
be urged against it is that the flowers close in the afternoon on 
bright days. The plants are low spreading and succulent, and 
make a handsome appearance even without flowers. The color 
exhibited in the flowers is very distinct and clear, and the contrast 
when massed in this style is very striking. The Portulaca will 
endure the dryest weather or the hottest sun, and will commence 
to bloom early and continue in bloom throughout the season. No 
pruning or care is recjuired after the plants are established except 
to keep down the weeds that may appear. 

In preparing the bed it should be given a top dressing of sand, 
and slightly elevated toward the centre. 

Another annual which is more popular for ribbon planting, and 
which is perhaps more desirable, is the Phlox Drummondii. The 
flowers range from pure white to brilliant scarlet, and several varie- 
ties show striped or marbled flowers. They are produced in clus- 
ters in great profusion and bloom from the opening of the first 
flower early in June until after severe frosts. A bed of these 
plants is always attractive and beautiful. 



382 FLORICULTURE. 



Set the plants about eight inches apart, and when they begin to 
shoot, cut the top out of each one and they will branch freely, be- 
come stronger, and cover the bed completely. 

The Verbena is also a splendid bedding plant, and may be easily 
raised from seeds for ribbon beds by getting seeds of the separate 
colors and setting the plants pretty thickly, so that any that prove 
to be of a different color may be removed; for Verbenas as well 
as other plants do not come altogether true from seeds. Set the 
plants a foot apart and peg down some of the branches so that 
they may grow and bloom freely. To get the best effect from 
verbenas in ribbon planting care must be taken to keep the plants 
from running together as they are rapid in growth and spread 
quickly. 

When a compact, free-blooming, white flour is wanted for the 
border, nothing surpasses the Sweet Alyssum. It is always in bloom, 
and its clusters of delicate flowers are produced abundantly. These 
beds may be filled with plants of colored foliage — A Chyranthes 
Centaurea, Variegated Geraniums and other geraniums. Lobelias, a 
few varieties of the Amaranthus, bi-color and tri-color. Sunrise and 
Salicifolius, are among the best varieties; their colors are brightest 
in poor soil and hot dry weather. In making the beds choose 
curved figures rather than angular ones. Ovals, circles and cres- 
cents, are to be preferred to squares, triangles and stars, the more 
elaborate the plan the greater the labor of keeping the plan in 
perfect condition. 

A bed of Pansies is a nice adornment to a lawn. The Pansy is 
a universal favorite, producing an abundance of flowers, early as 
well as late, in the season, and admired by all for the richness and 
endless variation in color of its flowers. Pansies, if allowed to be- 
come old, are apt to degenerate in color as well as in size; the old 
ones should be dug up and thrown away and the seed of the larg- 
est and most desirable should be sown; they will bloom within two 
months from the time of planting the seed. Fresh seed should be 
sown, at least, every spring, and much better results can be ob- 
tained by planting twice a year, in April and October. They re- 



FLORICULTURE. 383 



quire a very rich soil, a good deal of moisture, and a cool atmos- 
phere. 

One of the prettiest foliage plants for edging a pansy-bed is the 
Pyrethrum Aurea or golden feather. The plant is classed among 
the perennials but will grow enough the first season if sown early 
to give satisfaction, Whitlavi looks very pretty bordered with 
Golden Pyrethrum. 

Flower beds when made on the lawn should be filled with flowers 
that will continue in bloom the whole season and it is best generally 
to have but one kind in the bed, as the height, habit and flowering 
will be more uniform. 

It is hard to find a plant that surpasses the geranium for window 
culture or bedding purposes or one that yields a larger percentage 
of flowers for the care expended upon it. The increase of new 
varieties on the list every season proves that it is becoming a gen- 
eral favorite. Some of the double geraniums are preferable to 
the single, as they bloom just as free and the flowers last longer. 
Among the finest of the new double geraniums, in the judgment 
of Harry Chaapel, are the following: 

Adelaide Blanchon — Perfect form, pure white, strong grower, 
and free bloomer. 

Anna Montel — Rose color, shaded with violet, base of petals white, 
dwarf grower, and free bloomer. 

Admiration — Bright sahnon, distinctly edged with pure white. 

Asa Gray — Salmon, dwarf. 

August Villaume — Clear bright red, fine bedder. 

Bishop Wood — Dwarf habit, upper petals rosy scarlet, lower pet- 
als a decided purplish shade. 

Casimer Perrier — New, very double; flowers of flaming orange, 
bordered with salmon. 

Double Gen. Grant — New, color dazzling scarlet, semi-double. 

Mad Amelia Baltet — An excellent and distinct variety, with pure 
white double flowers, borne in compact trusses well above the fo- 
liage, the best double white yet introduced. 

Mrs. E. G. Hill — New, a superb variety, the flowers are quite 



384 FLORICULTURE. 



double of most exquisite shade, ground color, pale blush overlaid 
with delicate lavender shade, trusses of great size. 

Mrs. Charles Pease — New, a beautiful distinct variety, an exquis- 
ite deep pink color, the petals marked with pure white producing 
a fine effect. 

Mary Geering — Deep rosy pink, a grand variety. 

Richard Brett — New, of a peculiar orange color, somewhat like 
jealousy, a grand bedder. A few of the choice single ones, new, 
life-striped. The ground-color is a deep scarlet, striped and 
blotched with white, free bloomer, dwarf in habit, and easily grown. 

Master Christine — Dwarf pink, very fine bloomer. 

Louis Veuillot — A very free-blooming variety, producing large, 
full flowers of a dark crimson scarlet, dwarf, compact habit. 

Pauline Lucca — New, pure white. The individual flowers are 
very large and perfect. 

Pliny — Dark violet crimson. 

Romeo — Light rose. 

De Gast — Distinct, light orange, scarlet. 

Scarlet Beauty — Ground color white, with deep rosy pink centre. 

Christine Neilson — Nosegay, bright, rosy, pink, large truss. 

Fancy or Show Pelargoniums. These are more commonly 
known as Lady Washington geraniums. This is a set of the very 
best, giving all the variety of coloring found in the class. They 
cannot be described, as the markings and shades are so varied that 
no description would give a proper idea of what they are; Dr. 
Masters Rifleman, White Unique Morganii, Mazinelia Beadsman. 

Fancy Leaved Geraniums : Under this heading are placed 
those generally known as " Golden and Tri-color," " Silver and 
Bronze" leaved, and other variegated varieties ; the marking and 
coloring makes them beautiful beyond description. 

Battersea Park Gem — Golden and green flowers, scarlet. 

Circulator — A beautiful variety, somewhat resembling Mrs. 
Pollock, the golden-yellow leaf overlaid with a rich bronze red, 
zone mottled, with darker shades of the same. 



Fr.ORICULTURE. 385 



Cloth of Gold — Leaves yellow. 

Distinction — The merit of this variety lies in its peculiar leaf 
markings, the leaves being encircled near the edge, with a very 
narrow zone of deep black. 

Flowers of Spring — Leaves margined creamy white, flowers scar- 
let. 

Golden Chain — Very distinct. 

Mountain of Snow — Silvery white leaves, scarlet flowers, one of 
the best. 

Happy Thought — A tri-color geranium, with very dark green fo- 
liage, having a light, creamy, almost white center, with a dark band 
about the light zone. It is a beautiful plant, flowers bright scar- 
let, growth compact, vigorous. 

Marshal McMahon — The best of all the bronze geraniums, ground 
color of leaves, golden-yellow, marked with a deep chocolate zone, 
the variegation withstanding our hot, dry atmosphere admirably. 

Mrs. Pollock — Golden tri-colpr, a magnificent variety, the leaf over- 
laid by a beautiful bronze red zone, belted Avith bright red crim- 
son, and outwardly margined with golden yellow ; very fine for 
the parlor or conservatory. 

Ebor, Lady Collum, Edwina, Elizabeth and Earl of Derby, are 
all fine varieties of the Mrs. Pollock. 

Fragkant Gekaniums. — These are indispensible for summer 
boquets. 

Dr. Livingstone — T^eaves finely divided. 

Mrs. Taylor — Fragrant leaves and very bright scarlet flowers in 
the greatest profusion. Very desirable for cut flowers. 

Nutmeg Scented. 

Rose Scented — The most popular of all. 

Shrubland Pet — Fine soft leaf and carmine flowers. 

Variegated Rose Scented — Variegated green and white. 

Ivy Leaved Geraniums. — A splendid class of climbing or 

trailing geraniums, adapted for; baskets, vases, rock work, and 

training on trellises. They have fine thick glossy foliage, and 
24 



386 FLORICULTURE. 

beautiful flowers as well as foliage. They bloom with the great- 
est freedom during the Spring and Summer, flowers varying from 
white to dark rose. ' 

The double flowering geraniums are: 

Ansel T. Simmons — Flowers very fine shape, white, flushed with 
lavender, upper petals marked with purplish black. 

La Fiancee — Large, regular flowers, of fine, clear lilac, the upper 
petals are strongly arrayed with purple. 

Lucie Lemoine — One of the finest ivy leaved flowers, very large 
and double, color rosy white, tinted lilac upon the upper petals 
which are striped black. 

King Albert — Flowers of a violet rose color, well suited for bas- 
kets and specimen pot plants, a few of the single varieties flower- 

Butterfly — Bright rose, striped crimson. 

Bridal Wreath — Fine large trusses of pure white flowers, a very 
distinct variety. 

Peltatum li Elegante — A neat showy variety, bright green foliage, 
with a band of cream white, often tinted with pink. 

JiOses. 

Our beautiful roses have no rivals. They begin to bloom 
early in the season, and continue all through the Summer and 
Autumn months, until stopped by freezing weather. The flow- 
ers are of beautiful form and have beauty and fragrance com- 
bined. There is scarcely a plant grown that is of more easy ciflti- 
vation and more sure to bloom than the rose when grown in pots 
for bloom. Good rich fibrous loam should be secured, plenty of 
sunshine, regular and reasonable heat, and moderate moisture. 
The temperature may range from 40 to 50 degrees at night to GO 
and 70 degrees in the daytime. Roses that have been used for 
house bloom during the winter should be placed out in open ground 
or pot sunk in soil, the former being preferable, allowing them to 
grow rank. Plants purchased of the florist in the Spring should 
be treated in the same manner. You will be surprised at their 



FLORICULTURE. 387 



growth and the abundance of bloom produced. Roses, in the 
open ground, like good drainage and an abundance of water dur- 
ing the summer, and if the water is diluted with ammonia, or if an 
occasional watering of liquid manure is given, the growth of foliage 
will be more vigorous, and the flower larger and more perfect. As 
soon as a flower begins to fade it should be removed, and as soon 
as the branch or limb has developed all the flowers it contains, it 
should be cut o2 near the ground, or cut back to a young shoot that 
is just pushing out. Roses are always produced on the new growth of 
the plant, and by severe pruning and liberal manuring and watering, 
this new growth is secured, and consequently a profusion of flowers. 
They will require frequent and thorough watering, all weeds exter- 
minated, soil well stirred and kept free from insects. When roses 
are desired for Winter bloom buds should be plucked during the 
Summer, and early in the Fall potted and cut back, when they will 
start with new, vigorous shoots and bloom profusely. 

Insects. — In Summer, after a long hot dry spell, or in the house 
where the room is hot and dry, the Red Spider, which works such 
serious injuries to roses, usually makes its appearance. Moisture 
is its greatest enemy. Sprinkle or wash your plant frequently, 
taking care to wet the under side of the leaves thoroughly, and 
you will not be troubled with Red Spiders. The Green Fly is 
easily detected. It feeds upon the soft growth, and is best de- 
.stroyed by fumigating or washing the plants with strong tobacco 
water. The infected plant may be dipped into a strong tea of to- 
bacco, made by soaking common tobacco stems in water. Fre- 
quent applications are sometimes necessary, but it is a sure cure. 
The Mildew is removed by dusting sidphur over the affected plants. 
I have found hellebore quite effective for the aphis. 

Marie Guilott. — A splendid new rose, first-class in every res- 
pect, color pure snow white, sometimes finely tinged with pale 
yellow; extra large size, full and double, very sweet, tea scent. 

Nephetos. — An elegant Tea Rose, very large and double, delic- 
iously svreet, color pure snow white, sometimes faintly tinged 



388 FLORICULTURE. 



with delicate pink. It is highly valued for its lovely buds, which 
are remarkably large and fine, and particularly valuable for per- 
sonal ornament bouquet work. 

Perie des Jardins. — This is without exception the finest dwarf 
growing yellow rose in cultivation. Flowers a rich shade of yellow, 
very large and double, of the most beautiful form. A healthy, 
free grower, and unequalled in profusion of bloom, either in the 
open ground in Summer, or in pots in Winter. 

Queen's Scarlet. — This is a variety of the Benga or Chinse, of 
the most brilliant, dazzling, crimson scarlet, very double, quite 
sweet scented, and nearly hardy, one of the very best roses for 
window culture in Winter. 

Queen of Beddkrs. — One of the most valuable roses of re- 
cent introduction. It flowers very freely all through the Summer 
and Fall, producing an immense number of large and very double,, 
deep rich crimson flowers. Every branch is terminated by a clus- 
ter of buds, thus keeping the plant in bloom continually. It is 
one of the hardiest and needs but little protection. 

Catharine Memet. — This is a very beautiful and valuable vari- 
ety, color clear, shining pink, with delicately shaded amber and 
fawn center, noted for its lovely buds, and very sweet, large glob- 
ular flowers. 

Etoije De Lyon. — This is really a grand variety of a beauti- 
ful sulphur yellow color, large, finely formed buds, flowers very 
full and of excellent shape, habit strong and bushy, very profuse 
bloomer. One of the finest roses that have been in the market 
for years. 

La Princess Vera. — Rich ivory white, beautifully shaded with 
coppery yellow, delicately veined with pale blush and carmine, 
large, full, very double flowers, exquisitely scented. 

Rose Cuttings. — These should be made about the time the 
flowers are beginning to open. They will then root quickly and 



FLORICULTURE. 38lt 



make strong, healthy plants. Use clear, sharp sand, and keep con- 
stantly moist and in a partially shaded place. As soon as they are 
well rooted pot them in rich, well drained clay soil. Cuttings 
should be made by an incision immediately below second bud, 
which will make them quite long enough. Place them in the sand 
just so the upper bud will be above the surface. 

A Bed of Roses. — The bed may be bordered with Sweet Alys- 
sum and a few blooming Hyacinths might be set among the 
roses until they get well established and begin to grow, when they 
should not be crowded. Fourteen plants will make a bed six feet 
square, the corners being rounded off. Lay off the bed in four 
rows fourteen inches apart. Plant four roses in each of the mid- 
dle rows, setting them fourteen inches apart, the end plants eight 
inches from the end. Then set three roses ia each of the outside 
rows, setting the middle plant in the middle of the row and the 
others fourteen inches from it on either side. 

A Bed of Heliotropes axd Roses. — Border with Sweet 
Alyssum and place a Candy Tuft here and there through the bed. 
Fill with roses and heliotropes, a plant or two of Mignonette, and 
two plants of the variegated ivy; it is a beautiful variety, with 
small green leaves broadly margined, creamy white. 

Heliotrope. — These plants are universal favorites on account 
of their delightful fragrance, flowering equally well as bedding 
plants in Summer, or as pot plants in the house during Winter. 

Etolie de Marseille. — Deep bluish purple, dwarf grower, ex- 
quisitely fragrant, the best of all. 

Florence Nightixgale. — Lavender; free-blooming Juliette, 
one of the very best dark colored Heliotropes. 

Snoav Wreath. — The nearest approach to pure white, truss 
very large, growth compact, fragrant. 

Jenny Lind. — A deep dark purple, vigorous grower, and im- 
mense bloomer. 



390 FLORICULTURE. 



PuKPLE AND Gold. — An entire new style, foliage golden yel- 
low, flowers large, purple, making a beautiful contrast with the 
leaves, hence the name "Purple and Gold." In fragrance and pro- 
fusion of flowers it is in both respects equal to the best old sorts. 

Savanlky Giant. — It is an entirely new color, the first shade of 
red yet obtained in the heliotropes, the color being what might be 
termed a carmine rose. The size of the truss is immense, often 
measuring ten inches in diameter, and of the most exquisite fra- 
grance. 

Begonia Rex. — Begonia Rex and its varieties are among the 
most showy of green-house plants, their foliage presents a great 
variety of colors, the leaves often measuring fifteen inches in di- 
ameter of the most exquisite beauty. Desirable for house decora- 
tions in shady positions, especially for baskets and roses they are 
fine, strong plants, and can be readily increased by propagating 
plants from the leaves. To propagate them, the florists cut the 
leaf into small pieces, and lay upon sand, after a while buds ap- 
pear, and these develop into plants. Some florists take the whole 
leaf and cut through its strong veins and lay it on the sand, after 
awhile buds appear where it has been cut. The leaves must be 
kept in the shade or they will dry up before forming roots. 

Hybrid Spiral Mignonette — Is the finest mignonette in cul- 
tivation, it is dwarf, compact, and branching in habit, and produces 
immense flower spikes which often measure a foot in length. It 
is very hardy and adapted either for outdoor beds or for pots in the 
house. In pot-culture the plants should be watered sparingly and 
given a high, airy position. It should be placed out of doors in 
light, well-drained soil, that is sufliciently exposed to the sun. 

Hardy Bulbs, like Tulips, Crocuses and Hyacinths, should be 

planted in October. Tender or Summer bulbs, like the Tuberose, 

Gladiolus and Tiger Flower, must be set out in the Spring after 
the frosts. 



FLORICULTURE. 391 



Classification of FUnoers. 

Annuals flower the first season, perfect their seeds, and then die. 
Aimuals bloom in a few weeks or months after being planted and 
can 1)6 relied upon for a brilliant show. They have always been 
popular and will continue so. Each year makes a great improve- 
ment in the list of annuals, they keep up a continuous bloom until 
frost. Annuals are classed hardy, half-hardy, and tender. Hardy 
annuals are those like the Candytuft, Larkspur; may be sown in 
the Autumn, or very early in the Spring, in the open ground. 
The half-hardy varieties will not endure frost and should not be 
sown until the frost is over. The Marigolds and Balsam beloug- 
to this class. The tender annuals generally require starting in a 
greenhouse or hotl)ed to bring them to perfection, and should not 
be set out until the weather is quite warm, in May. Very few of 
our fine annuals belong to this class. Sensitive Plant, Cypress 
Vine belong to this class. 

Biennials are those that last two seasons. Some of the varieties 
bloom the first year and remain over Winter, flowering again the 
second year, then die, having fulfilled their mission. Slight pro- 
tection of leaves or coarse manure will be necessary for them. 
For Summer and Autunm flowering the seed should be sown in 
March and April, and treated the same^as half hardy annuals, for 
those varieties that bloom the first season. Plardy kinds can be 
sown from April to September in the open border and transplanted 
where they are intended to bloom the following year. Some con- 
tinue indefinitely, but others die after three or four years, like the 
Sweet William, but if the roots are divided every year, they will 
continue to live and increase. The, following belong to this class: 
Canterbury Bell, Foxglove, Hollyhock, Larkspur, Wallflower, 
Sweet William and others. 

Perennials do not flower until the second year, and the hardy 
varieties remain in the ground from year to year, and improve by 
age, forming large clumps or bushes which are completely covered 



392 FLORICULTURE. 



with flowers. They should be planted in the beds where they are 
to remain permanently. 

The seed may be sown early in the Spring, with annuals, or la- 
ter in the Summer, in a cool and partially shaded situation ; and 
when large enough to transplant place wher.e desired. 

Verbenas are among the half hardy annuals, are treated as ten- 
der perennials, and are at times of slow germination. The best vari- 
eties are often the slowest to germinate. The germination of man}' 
hard seed of strong body of either green- house or hot- house 
species are rapidly hastened by pouring warm water over them, or 
soaked over night in camphorated water and then sown. Pour it 
billing hot on Cypress Vine seed, and let them remain in it over 
night. Thus treated, the young plants appear in a few weeks, 
but without such treatment they are often months. The varieties 
of Acacia, Erythrina, Canna and Smilax belong to this class. 

On the ^So^cing of J^loirer /Seeds. 

Seedling plants can be raised nearly as well in the window of a 
sitting-room as in a green-house, providing the temperature is as 
near sixty degrees as possible, for the seeds do not require a strong, 
direct light while germinating. The surface of the seed-bed dries 
up too quickly in the direct sunshine, necessitating watering, which 
bakes the surface. Sow the seed in shallow boxes — these need 
not be more than two or three inches deep, with open seams at the 
bottom to allow the water to drain off quickly. Fill the boxes to 
within half an inch of the top with light, rich earth. Tlie best 
soil'is a mixture of equal parts of sand, leaf-mould and light rich gar- 
den loam, which should be thoroughly mixed and passed through 
a coarse sieve. In the absence of leaf-mould use light sandy soil 
mixed v,dth an equal bulk of stable manure, so rotted as to resemble 
leaf-mould; it will not answer unless rotted as fine as dust; the ob- 
ject being lightness of the soil or mould in which the seed is to be 
sown. The germ of many of the fine seeds is too weak to push 
its way to the light embedded in a stiff soil. When the proper 
soil is prepared, then fill the boxes to within half an inch of the 



FLORICULTURE. 393 



rim, press the soil firmly and evenly. If the soil is dry, water 
freely before sowing the seeds, and after they are sown, cover 
slightly with fine soil again, carefully watering with a spray damp- 
ener, to settle the soil down to a uniform surface. The inexperi- 
enced cultivator may be reminded that to omit a single watering 
and allow the young plant germs from seed to remain in a parched 
state, or a too frequent indiscriminate watering often leads to the 
eventual loss of the whole. As soon as the plants appear they will 
require your careful attention, as the least over- watering may cause 
them to damp oft', and your hopes will be suddenly blasted. They 
should have as much sun as possible, and when the weather is 
pleasant some air may be admitted. As soon as the plants are 
large enough to handle, pick them out of the seed boxes, and trans- 
plant them into others, placing them about one inch apart each 
way; they must be shaded for a few days from the sun until they 
are established. When large enough they can be planted sepa- 
rately into small pots and kept until the proper season for planting 
out in the garden. 

If the seedling is attached by the minute fungus caused by over- 
watering it will sweep off the whole crop in a few hours if not at- 
tended to. As soon as there are indications of the damping off, 
they must be carefully taken up and planted out in similar boxes, 
prepared exactly as the seed boxes have been. They may be 
planted quite closely, not more than half an inch apart; and let 
their further treatment be the same as in germinating the seeds. 
In a few weeks they will have grown large enough to be placed in 
three-inch pots, or similar boxes, but wider apart, from three* to 
four inches, where they can remain until planted out in the open 
ground. 

Transplanting. 

Water the plant to be transplanted a short time before you 
begin, so that the earth will adhere firmly to the roots. Remove 
the earth from the place where you wish to set it sufficiently to 
make plenty of room; then pour in a quart of water or more, ac- 



394 FLORICULTURE. 



cording to the size of the plant; you need not be afraid of getting 
too much. When the water has settled out of sight put in the 
plant which you have lifted carefully by cutting around outside 
its roots, disturbing them as little as possible. Then draw the dry 
earth up closely and firmly around it, and your plant will not 
appear to notice the change. The ground being moist nourishes 
the roots, and starts the plant into a vigorous growth. Transplant 
from pots in the same manner. 

Time Required by Seed to Germinate. 

Sweet Alyssum, Candy Tuft, Double Pink, Double Daisy, Zinnia, 
Pyrethrum Dianthus, Picotee, Carnation, Marigold, Wallflower, 
Double Hollyhock, Whitlavia, Amaranthus, Mimulus, from seven 
to eight days. Sweet William, Schizanthus, Cineraria, Lupin, 
Mignonette, Geranium, Browallia, from eight to ten days. Petunia, 
Phlox Drummondii, Lobelia, Antirrhinum, Poppy Palsam, Cox- 
comb, Pentsteinon, from ten to eleven days. Pansy, Thunbergia 
Lychnis, Alonsoa, Ricinus, from thirteen to fourteen days. Per- 
ennial Peas, Mandevilla, Myosotis Verbena, Perilla, Maurandia, 
Vinca, Callirhoe, Valerian, Datura, Schinus Molle, Sweet Peas, 
Clianthus, from fifteen to twenty days. Primula, Coleus, Canna, 
Agapanthus, Smilax, Calla, from one to three months or more. 
Geranium seeds will sometimes be in the ground for six weeks or 
two months before sprouting. Some of the varieties named above 
come up irregularly, some of the seeds requiring a much longer 
time to germinate than others. Under very favorable conditions 
the seeds will come up in several days less time than allowed in 
the list. 

Treatment of Lilies. 

Nearly all Lilies are hardy, and require about the same treat- 
ment: a rich, light soil, a mixture of leaf-mould, or wood soil, 
and well rotted manure; the bed should be located where 
it will be high and dry, so that no water will stand upon 
it in the Winter, and partially shaded; when exposed to 
the Summer heat the buds often blast before they come to per- 



FLORICULTURE. 395 



fection. Never divide and reset Lilies until the bulbs get so nu- 
merous as to injure the growth of the plants; the division should 
be made in October after the Lilies have completed their growth 
for the season. In the Fall the bed should be covered with a lib- 
eral quantity of leaves or coarse manure which must be removed 
in the Spring as soon as the frost is gone, and danger from cold is 
past. In enriching the bed always use well rotted manure and 
mix it lightly into the surface soil. Fresh manure used in contact 
with the bulbs often causes them to decay. In removing the bulbs 
do not expose them to the air, or allow them to remain out of the 
ground for any length of time. They should always be carefully 
preserved in fine charcoal, one part, sandy clay, two parts, well 
mixed, if you wish to take them with you when you move in the 
Spring. Charcoal sprinkled over damaged lily bulbs and planted 
in this manner will restore them. 

Tuberose Culture. 

Purchase your l^ulbs in the Spring of the florist. Put good 
drainage in the bottom of your boxes; charcoal preferred. Fill 
up with light rich soil. Take the bulbs and break off all the small 
ones and plant them separately to grow for future flowering. They 
will not bloom until they are three years old. Put the large bulbs 
in the boxes, press them in well, allowing only the top above the 
soil and keep them warm and wet; when well started change them 
to a cooler place, and at the proper time set them out in the gar- 
den, which is about the first of June. The flower stalk will start 
up the last of July or the first of August. As it grows up tie it 
to a stake to keep the wind from making it lean over. In Septem- 
ber they will reward you with lovely fragrant flowers. All this 
time little bulblets are forming around the old bulb, and as cold 
weather approaches they must be taken up: shake off the dust and 
lay where they will dry off gradually in a warm room. When the 
leaves dry up you can pull them off; then label them and pack in 
boxes of dry sand, and keep in a very dry, warm place, or the 
germ of the flower stem which formed in the bulb the previous 



396 FLORICULTURE. 



summer will be destroyed in tlie cold. It is very delicate, and 
cold and moisture will cause it to decay. If the flower germ is 
destroyed the bud will give plenty of leaves and young bulblets, 
but no flowers. This is the reason why we see so many tuberoses 
that never bear a flower. 

Gladiolus. — Are favorites, there is such a variety in their mark- 
ings, from purest white to deep scarlet. The choicest of these 
gladiolus, white, are very small, the bulbs about the size of a 
pigeon egg. The common sorts produce extremely large bulbs 
and are very productive. These bulbs are perhaps the most hardy 
of all the Summer bloomers. 

Beautiful Hardy (Jlunhimj Vines. 

Nothing excels the natural drapery of the climbers for covering 
the summer-house, for forming drapery around doors and windows 
or the columns of the veranda, and for growing in any situation 
where shade and beauty is the object, clothing all imperfections 
with a mantle of beauty and giving a pleasant, inviting look to 
the humblest home. 

Clematis. — The improvement in this class within a few years 
surpasses any thing recently introduced in the hardy climbing 
plants. The effect produced by a well grown plant is grand, being 
large in flower, rich in coloring, and produced in large quantities. 
For veranda fences, trellises, etc., of moderate height, they are 
most appropriate. They endure our severe Winters exceedingly 
well, and in Summer are covered with a continual mass of bloom. 
The following is a desirable collection in every respect: 

Jackmaxni. — The flowers when fully expanded are from four to 
six inches in diameter, intense violet purple, with a rich velvety 
appearance, distinctly veined, perfectly hardy. It flowers continu- 
ally from July until cut off by frosts. 

Miss Bateman. — A magnificent plant, both in growth and 
flower. The blooms are large, of good shape, pure white, banded 
with creamy white down the center of each speal. 



FLORICULTURE. 397 

Alexander. — Pale reddish violet. 

RosAJiOND. — Light lavender. 

Lucie Lemoine. — Large snow-white double and very symmet- 
rical in form. 

Lady Londesugrougii.— Silvery gray. 

QuiNQUEFOLiA OR VIRGINIA Creeper. — A rapid grower, 
much esteemed. 

Veitchii. — A hardy climbing plant from Japan, it is a splendid 
plant for covering unsightly objects, as it clings to stonework, etc., 
with the greatest tenacity. The foliage is a bright, glossy green, 
shaded with purple, changing in Fall to the brightest tints of scar- 
let, crimson and orange. 

Akebia Quinatta. — A very beautiful, perfectly hardy, fast- 
growing Japan vine, with magnificent foliage, producing a most 
delicious perfume, unsurpassed for covering trellis and verandas. 
The foliage never being attacked by insects. 

BiGNONiA RADicAxs.-^The well-known Trumpet Creeper, a 
rapid growing, hardy, climbing vine, covered during the latter part 
of Summer and Fall with masses of bright orange-colored flowers, 
very showy. 

HoNEY-suGKLE.s. — These are considered by many the most de- 
sirable of all our hardy climbers, l)eing beautiful and fragrant. 

AuREA Reticulate. — A variety with beautifully variegated 
foliage. The leaves are netted and veined with clear yellow flow- 
ers, and fragrant. 

Brachpody. — Valus-ble for its remarkable, vigorous growth. 
Flowers yellow, fragrant. 

Flexousa. — An old favorite, holding its leaves during nearly 
the entire Winter. Flowers variegated, red, yellow. 

Halliaxa. — Another evergreen honeysvickle, with very fragrant 
white flowers. 

Monthly Fragrant. — A fine, rapid growing variety; flowers 
large and very fragrant; color red and yellow; a constant bloomer. 



398 FLORICULTURE. 



ScAKLET Teumpet. — A Strong, rapid grower; blooms very free- 
ly the entire season; bright red, truuipet-shaped flowers. 

WiSTAPaA. — Is one of the most popular hardy vines, growing 
very rapidly, climbing to a height of fifty feet or more, and when 
in full bloom is truly magnificent; flowers in early Spring in long, 
drooping racemes resembling in size and shape a bunch of grapes. 

Chinese (Sinensis). — Flowers in clusters, pale blush; some- 
times gives a second crop of flowers in the Fall. 

Magnifica. — Flowers in dense, drooping racemes of pink lilac 
of the same size of the Chinese; vigorous and perfectly hardy. 

LopiiosPERMUM ScANDEXS. — It is a vine but little known, but 
its beauty, both of foliage and flower, has never failed to make it 
a favorite wherever the plant has been cultivated. The flowers re- 
semble those of Maurandia in shape, but are much larger and are 
of a rosy purple color. The plant is a rapid grower, bearing the 
flowers and light green, neatly cut foliage in abundance. When 
the plant is once started, the roots, which are tuberous, may be 
preserved in dry earth in the cellar and the plant will become 
stronger and prettier each svicceeding year. 

Trop^olum Peregrinum. — Is a very rapid climber, having an 
abundance of elegant green foliage, and in the Autumn producing 
thousands of its peculiarly shaped yellow flowers, from whence it re- 
ceives the common name, Canary Bird Flower, the flowers bearing 
a fancied resemblance to a canar}' l^ird with extended wings. 
It is one of the most rapid and graceful climbers in existence, and 
the plants are easily grown from seed and will thrive in any soil if 
you only give it a support. It is a tender annual. 

How can I successfully cultivate plants so as to have buds and 
flowers in winter is a question often asked. Different species of 
plants require different situations suited to their various habits. 
It is a good plan after we have made our selections to learn all we 
can about their native habits: whether they require a dry or moist 
soil, a warm or a cool atmosphere, and treat them accordingly. 



FLORICULTURE. 309 



The next thing in order is to procure suitable soil for their growth. 
It seems a common custom to use garden soil which contains but 
little nutriment. Many after procuring their soil bake it to destroy 
the insects and by so doing destroy all the properties in the soil 
necessary to the healthy growth of the plants. All plants grown 
in pots have comparatively little soil from which to draw their 
nourishment and it should be rich. The best soil is a mixture of 
equal parts of sand and leaf mould and light rich garden loam, 
which should be thoroughly mixed and passed through a coarse 
sieve. In the absence of leaf mould use light sandy soil, mixed 
with an equal bulk of stable manure so rotted as to resemble leaf 
mould. It is a good plan to have some stored away where it can be 
had when wanted. The pots for house plants should not be too 
large, those that grow in small pots are the l:)est bloomers. The 
pots should be well washed and thoroughly dried in the sun. Put 
some pieces of broken charcoal in the bottom of the crock for 
drainage and fill within half an inch of the rim. There are now 
so many pretty inventions in the way of pots, boxes and plant 
stands, that the most fastidious can be suited. I use but few un- 
glazed pots in the house, because they are so porous and absorb 
the moisture so quickly that they draw upon the life of the plant 
unless you are very attentive to their wants. I lost a good many 
in this way when I was young and inexperienced. I like the un- 
glazed ones if the pots are to be sunk in the ground or used in a 
hot bed; for this purpose they are better than the glazed ware. 
To be a success in cultivating plants is not so much a question of 
what kind of a pot shall hold them, as what kind of a person shall 
take charge of them. A person interested in floriculture with some 
discrimination will grow a plant in anything. Many of our Winter 
blooming plants, to have them do their best, should be started in 
the Spring. The first of May I begin to make provisions for the 
window garden, and plant my seeds. 

There is a charm in watching the development of a plant from 
the tiny seed leaf to the strong, vigorous plant in full bloom. 

Chinese Primroses are becoming great favorites for Winter 



400 FLORICULTURE. 



flowers. Their low, compact growth makes them desirable for the 
window shelf. Seed sown in May makes fine plants for the Win- 
ter. Keep them in a cool place, partially shaded. Water mod- 
erately until plants are of sufficient size to pot off singly in pots. 
Grow them well and put into four or five inch pots before putting 
into Winter quarters. Use rich soil in filling in at repotting. 
They will begin flowering as soon as cool weather sets in and con- 
tinue until late Spring. Kept in a cool, shady place and watered 
carefully, they will make quite effective plants for the Winter. 

Sweet Mignonette is well known and loved by every one for the 
fragrance of its flowers and its constant bloomina;. There are dif- 
ferent varieties of this plant. 

Parson's White-flowering Giant, flowers a pure white, very 
fragrant, and Miles Hybrid Spiral, are said to be the finest iu cul- 
tivation. 

Sweet x\lyssum is a plant of similar nature. The flowers are 
white and quite fragrant and of the easiest cultivation. 

Ageratum Mexicanum grows about two feet high and produces 
blue flowers in great profusion, which are very neat in bouquets. 

Boston Smilax is one of our prettiest vines and is easily grown 
from seed. It grows rapidly, clinging to any light support, as 
twine or wire. The vine in appearance is of fragile growth, but 
almost as tough as twine, and the pretty clusters of leaves will re- 
main fresh and green for many days after being cut. There are no 
large, showy leaves, or gaudy-colored flowers to attract attention, 
but the whole vine, from the bright green leaves to the little deli- 
cate white flowers, is the perfection of grace and beauty. The 
Heliotrope is a great favorite. Its delicate sprays of flowers in 
various shades of purple, and its exquisite fragrance make it very 
desirable for bouquets. Then I would add Nephetos, an elegant Tea 
Rose, very large and double; deliciously sweet; color, pure snow 
white, sometimes faintly tinged with delicate pink. Then I would 
select the old Rose Geranium. Its fragrance commends it to all, and 
its foliage is always beautiful and always in demand for boquets. 
Then I would add a Calla, in the Winter it will be a source of 



FLORICULTURE. 401 



constant delight. If it did not bloom, its large, luxuriant leaves 
make it worth cultivating and its flowers give a collection of plants 
an air of elegance, that no others can, and many others too nu- 
merous to mention, in vines and baskets interspersed. There is noth- 
ing in the way of home decorations that are inexpensive that will 
adorn our rooms and give results so satisfactory as the ivy; it gives 
an air of cheerfulness and refinement to the humblest home. They 
may be trained around the window frames, run along the cornice, 
encircle picture frames, over the door where adjoining rooms con- 
nect by folding doors, festooning in the most attractive manner. 

Some Hyacinths should be added to our Winter collection of 
flowers; they are beautiful and fragrant. A very small pot will 
answer for the Hyacinth, but it is better to take a larger sized pot 
and plant three or four in it. Fill the pot with porous sandy soil 
and make a place for the bulb, just large enough to receive it; put 
it in and press it down so that it will just show above the earth; 
then water and set the pots away in a cool, dark cellar for several 
weeks. The tops will not grow much, but the roots will make a 
good formation; then remove a few at a time into a light warm 
room. In this way you can have a continuous bloom for some time. 
Set them at night in a cool room, in the morning return them to 
their proper places. If put in glasses the water should not be 
higher than one inch below the bulb until the roots have reached 
the water. Set the glasses away in a cool place, as you would if 
they were in pots. As soon as flower buds appear, sprinkle the 
leaves and buds; then fill the glasses up, place a piece of charcoal 
in the water and set them in the sun to grow. My practice is to 
start my slips the last Friday in May in moist sand as soon as the 
cuttings take roots. I pot them in the smallest sized pots, then 
sink them to the rim in moist sand. In this way I have grown 
nice plants in a few weeks. When large enough repot in pots not 
over four inches across the top or they will spend their 
strength in making foliage. In the fall repot into larger ones. 
To turn your plants in the window will secure a well shaped 

plant; but if you wish your plants to bloom well never turn them 
26 



402 FLORICULTURE. 



but let them always grow to the light. They spend so much 
strength in turning that they do not bloom well. Many plants 
sicken and die from being over watered. A healthy plant grow- 
ing vigorously will naturally absorb a great deal of moisture 
every day, and will require more water. When we find the soil 
dry daily we may continue water with safety; but if it fails to 
absorb the water let it rest. If you continue to water you will 
kill your plant. When the plant is kept too wet the soil becomes 
sour and the plant is covered with white insects, lice, scales, etc. 
The leaves of plants should be washed once a week, as this keeps 
the plant free from insects. It is almost as injurious to keep them 
too dry as wet. We must be governed by the health of the plant 
and the water it absorbs. 

A Fernery. 

These ferneries are made in various styles. A rustic stand lined 
-with zinc, some charcoal and small stones in the bottom for drain- 
age. Filled with equal parts of sand, loam and leaf -mould and 
planted with ferns and maiden-hair, and a little green moss will 
adorn the most elegant apartment and not cost over two dollars. 
The harder kinds, if kept within doors, will survive the Winter, 
and look fresh and green throughout. And the more delicate and 
fragile of the species may be preserved in all their natural fresh- 
ness and beauty under a covering of glass. They can be planted 
in baskets hung from window-rods, or be set on windowsills. And 
what exquisite grace they shed over the rooms they adorn. To 
succeed in cultivating them,we must be governed by the place where 
they were found. The most difficult to raise are those found near 
waterfalls. Have you a dark damp corner in your yard where you 
cannot get your flowers to grow? If you have, lay some loose 
stones together in rockery form and plant ferns there. They will 
revel in the obscurity of the retreat which you have chosen for 
them and create the dark spot into one of beauty. 



MISCELLANEOUS FjJEGEIPTS. 



Shell Frames. 

Use a cement made of common putty; put the putty on a board; 
have some oil ready, of which put in enough to keep the putty a lit- 
tle moist, and pound as long as your patience holds out. The 
s'moother it is made the better it will spread. If your shells are a 
light color, mix a little paint in the putty; red will be a good con- 
trast. If the shells are dark, select some other color. Arrange 
the shells on a table just as you want them on, the frame, for you 
must work very quickly after the cement is spread on one side 
of the frame. Put your knife in oil and smooth the cement; then 
press in the shells just far enough to have them firm. Proceed in 
like manner with each of the other sides of the frame. Now take 
the frame carefully, keeping it level, lay it in a quiet room for at 
least three months, then varnish two or three times with white var- 
nish and you will have an ornamental frame that will last a life 
time. — The Household. 

How to Wash Gilt Frames. 

Varnish, white demore; varnish when you buy your frames, and 
jou can wash without injury. 

To Preserve Oil Cloths. 

Varnish with furniture polish once a month and they will wear 
for years. Varnish your stoves after blackening with furniture pol- 
ish to keep the blackening from burning off. 



404 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

For Making Fire Brick to Line a Stove. 

One gallon of fire clay, one cup of salt, one cup of wood ashes, 
one ounce of plaster paris; mix with a little water and spread 
smooth. If you have no trowel, and use your hands, you must dip 
them often in water. 

For Keeping Lemons One Year. 

Take one dozen of lemons and grate them; add three pounds of 
pulverized or granulated sugar; mix well together, put in jars and 
seal them tight. This is not to be heated; it is to be put up en- 
tirely cold. You can use out of the jar at any time, and close up 
again, and it will keep nicely. 

To Remove Worms from the Hoots of Plants. 

Cut a potato in two pieces, and lay at the root of the plant on 
top of the ground; the worms will collect on it. Soap suds will 
bring fish worms to the top. 

To Drive Aioay Bed Bugs. 

Take the whites of four eggs and ten cents' worth of quick sil- 
ver, and beat together until a stiff froth. Take a feather, dip in 
and apply to the bedstead. 

The Best Deodorizer. 

Use brono-chloralum in the proportion of one tablespoonful to 
eight of soft water; dip cloths in this solution and han^ in the 
rooms. It will purify sick-rooms of any foul smells. A weak so- 
lution is excellent to rinse the mouth with often, when, from any 
cause, the breath is offensive. It is also an excellent wash for 
sores and wounds that have an offensive odor. 

Corn Vinegar. 

Three pints of corn; boil until it is soft. Take one pound of 
brown sugar and one gallon of lukewarm water; mix all together, 
tie a cloth over the crock, and let stand until sour. You can add 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 405 

more sugar and water and use the same corn several times. Excel- 
lent. 

A Great Henovator. 

Every family should keep in the house the strongest ammonia, 
which may be kept in bottles with glass stoppers. It will restore 
color where it has been taken out by an acid. It is good for clean- 
ing carpet, paint, glass, silver, or gold, and will remove almost any 
kind of dirt. If you take a spoonful of ammonia to a quart of 
warm suds, you can make your carpet look almost as well as new. 
In cleaning glass, take about one-fourth as much water as you use 
for carpets. 

To Clean Black Silk or Cloth. 

Sponge the goods with warm water, or coffee with ammonia in 
it; pcess on the wrong side, by first laying paper over the goods. 

jScrajj Book Paste. 

Dissolve a small quantity of cornstarch in cold water, then cook 
it thoroughly. Be careful not to get it too thick; when cold, it 
should be thin enough to apply with a brush. It will not mould 
nor stain the paper. It is the kind used by daguerreotypists on 
gem pictures.^ 

Postage Stamp Mucilage. 

The following is said to be the formula for the mucilage used 
on the LTnited States postage stamp: Dextine, two ounces; acetic 
acid, one ounce; water, five ounces; alcohol, one ounce; add the 
alcohol to the other ingredients when the dextine is completely 
dissolved. 

Sealing Wax, Bed, Black and Blue. 

Take gum shellac, eight ounces; Venice turpentine, four ounces; 
Vermillion, two and a half ounces; alcohol, two ounces; camphor 
gum, half an ounce. Dissolve the camphor in the alcohol, then 
the shellac, adding the turpentine, and finally the vermillion, being 
very careful that no blaze shall come in contact with its fumes; for 
if it does, it will fire very quickly. If you desire blue, substitute 



406 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

fine Prussian Blue for the vermillion, same quantity. If you desire 
black, lampblack will be sufficient to color. Either colors must be 
well rubbed into the mixture. 

To Clean Chromos. 

When chromos require cleaning remove all dust with a feather 
brush, and wipe carefully with a soft chamois skin or fine linen cloth, 
very slightly dampened. If a little spotted or dull, a drop of oil 
on the chamois will remove the blemish. If the varnish is dull or 
rubbed re- varnish it with thin mastic varnish. Like oil paintings, 
it is not desirable to hang chromos in a dark room; but never ex- 
pose them to the direct rays of the sun. 

Honey, Liquid. 

Put two pounds of the purest white sugar in as much hot water 
as will dissolve it. Take one pound of strained white clover honey 
(any honey of good flavor will answer), and add it warm to the 
syrup, thoroughly stirring together. As refined loaf sugar is a 
pure and inodorous sweet, one pound of honey will give its flavor 
to two pounds of sugar, and the compound will be free from that 
smarting taste that pure honey often has, and will usually agree 
with those who cannot eat the latter with impunity. Any desired 
flavor can be added to it. 

Chloride if Lime. 

A French writer says that chloride of lime scattered about whei'e 
rats and mice frequent will cause them to desert the spot. A so- 
lution of it brushed over plants will effectually protect them from 
insects. If scattered over ground infested with grubs, it will free 
it from them entirely. Bunches of cotton or tow smeared with a 
mixture of chloride of lime and hog's lard, and tied about in diff"er- 
ent parts of a tree, will guard it against the attacks of insects, slugs, 
grubs, etc., and drive away those already in possession. 

Driving Atcay Ants. 

Take carbolic acid diluted with water, say one part acid to ten 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 407 

parts water, and with a syringe throw this liquid into all the cracks 
and holes where they nest, and they will soon vanish. Cockroach- 
es are also driven away by it. 

A Good and Cheap 'Whitevmsh. 

Few people know how easily whitewash is made and how valua- 
ble it is when properly applied. It not only prevents the decay of 
wood, but is greatly conducive to the healthfulness of buildings, 
whether wood or stone. Outbuildings and fences, when not paint- 
ed, should be supplied, once or twice a year, with a good coat of 
whitewash, which should be prepared in the following way: Take 
a clean, water-tight barrel or other suitable cask, and put into it 
about half a bushel of lime; slake it by pouring water over it boil- 
ing hot, and put in a sufficient quantity of water to cover it five 
inches deep, and stir it briskly till thoroughly slaked; when the 
slaking has been thoroughly effected, dissolve in water and add 
two pounds of sulphate of zinc and common salt. These will cause 
the wash to harden and prevent the cracking, which gives an un- 
seemly appearance to the work. If desirable, a beautiful cream 
color may be given to the above wash by adding three pounds of 
yellow ochre, or a good pearlly lead, lamp, vine or ivy black. For 
fawn color add four pounds of umber — Turkish or American — (the 
latter is the cheapest,) one pound of Indian red, one pound of com- 
mon lamp black. 

Hoxo to Make Hens Lay. 

A writer gives the following: He had sixteen hens and the pro- 
duct per diem averaged thirteen eggs. He had been in the habit 
of giving on every alternate day a teaspoon ful and a quarter of 
cayenne pepper, mixed with soft food, and took care that each hen 
obtained her share. The experiment of omitting the pepper was 
tried, when it was found that the number of eggs was reduced 
each trial from five to six daily. He believes that a moderate use 
of this stimulant not only increases the number of eggs, but effec- 
tually wards off disease to which chickens are subject. 



408 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

A Cure for Hog Cholera. 

A Mr. Dodge, of Appleton City, Mo., says that hog cholera may 
be cured with but little trouble and expense, as follows: As soon 
as the hog is known to be sick with the cholera, get a long-necked 
bottle, in which put a gill or so of milk and half a teaspoonful of 
pure carbolic acid. Let one hold the hog by the ears and set him 
up between his knees, while another man with a bottle in one 
hand and a short stick, about as thick as his wrist, in the other, 
places the stick in the animal's mouth to prevent breaking the bot- 
tle in pouring the contents down. If he is not perfectly cured in 
a few days then repeat the dose — he never having had to resort to 
the second dose but once among the many he had cured. 

Cutting Sods. 

Take a board eight or nine inches wide, four to six feet long, 
and cut downward all around the board; then turn the board over 
and cut again alongside the edge of the board, and so on as many 
sods as needed. Then cut the turf with a sharp spade, all the 
same lengths. Begin on one end and roll together. Eight inches 
by five feet is about as much as a man can handle conveniently. 
It is very easy to load them on a wagon, cart or barrow, and they 
can be quickly laid. After laying a good piece sprinkle a little 
with a watering pot, if the sods are dry; then use the back of the 
spade to smooth them a little. If a very fine effect is wanted, 
throw a shovelful or two of good earth over each square yard, and 
smooth it with the back of a steel rake. 

For Foundered Horses. 
The following has been used with great success by the farmers 
in one of the valleys of this State: Take one tablespoonful of pul- 
verized alum, draw the horse's tongue out as far as possible, and 
force alum down the throat in two powders. In two hours the 
horse will be ready for use. 

A Farmer'' s Mixture. 
Every farmer should keep a can of the following mixture: Ker- 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 409 

osene, two quarts; linseed oil, one gill; rosin, one ounce. Melt 
the rosin in the linseed oil and add to the kerosene. Coat all steel 
or iron tools, whenever bright, with this when they are to lie idle, 
if for only a few days. It will not take half a minute or half a 
teaspoonful of the mixture to coat a plow when one has finished 
using it, and it will prevent all rust and save half a day's time in 
cleaning it when it is again needed, besides saving the team many 
thousands of pounds extra pulling. Coat the iron work of the 
mowers and reapers with it when they are put away for the winter. 
A little rust is only a little thing, but it makes much difference in 
the aggregate. 

Nev^ Way of Obtaining Maple Syriij^. 

Maple sugar and syrup can be obtained at any time by procur- 
ing a green or dry stick of rock or white maple. Strip the bark 
from it, which is useless, whittle into shavings; boil in a little water 
until all the maple flavor is extracted, then strain and add sufficient 
white or brown sugar, to make a thick or thin syrup, boil again 
until syrup of the proper consistency is obtained, and you will get 
as good maple syrup as is obtained from the sap; or sugar, by mak- 
ing thicker, boiling longer and graining it, by stirring constantly 
before and after taking it off. 

Itisect Pests. 

A writer in the A^nerican Cultivator relates how it sometimes 
happens that the destructive pest, known as the Canker Worm, 
makes its appearance on the apple-tree all of a sudden, even where 
it has not been in the habit of visiting. Then, of course, it is too 
late to use any preventive, therefore a cure must be sought. The 
writer says he has found, under certain conditions, that this worm 
can be destroyed by the use of Paris Green. Put a heaping tea- 
spoonful of Paris Green into a pail full of water, apply the mixture 
with a forcepump, throwing the water through the tree thoroughly. 
This should be done as soon as possible after the presence of the 
worm is ascertained. He says he found one application to be suf- 



410 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

ficient. Soon after the application of the liquid the worms can be 
seen to let ^o and string down from the tree. He gives the fol- 
lowing for the treatment of the currant worm. When it makes its 
appearance, apply powdered hellebore. Place the powder in a 
common dredging-box, and sprinkle the bushes when the dew is on. 
He says he usually finds it necessary to go over them when in 
blossom, then again after the fruit is set and of considerable size. 
He says this remedy has never failed with him, and does not injure 
the fruit. 

Celery Grovinrj. 

In her prize essay on Celery, in T^/cX;\< Magazine^ Mrs. C. H. 
Root, of Ripon, Wis., recommends the following method of pre- 
paring for and cultivating the crop: 

1. Send where you will be sure to get good seed. 

2. Prepare a seed-bed out of doors in a sheltered situation. You 
will get your plants early enough by so doing, for they grow much 
faster and are stronger than when grown in a hot-bed. 

3. Sprinkle the bed often to keep it moist, and when the young- 
plants are about three inches high, transplant them about three 
inches apart, and the rows about one foot from each other. 

4. AVhen the plants have become stocky, have a trench dug 
about one foot deep; put into it equal parts of wood ashes and 
good, rich dressing, and rich, black soil, and work all together with 
a hoe. 

5. Set the plants about five inches apart, and be sure to straight- 
en out the roots and press the soil firmly about them. 

6. Sprinkle roots enough to keep them fresh until they are firm 
in their places, and then give them all the water you have a mind 
to, the more the better. 

7. When they have made growth enough to cause the branches 
to lie over, hill up enough to hold the stalks erect. Continue the 
hilling process at intervals of two weeks all Summer, being care- 
ful to do it when the weather is dry, and in the afternoon when the 
dew is off. Be sure, when hilling, to hold the stalks together, to 
prevent the soil from getting into the heart of the plants. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 411 

8. Such portions as you wish for early celery, bank to the top by 
the first of September; for "Winter use bank to the top from the 
first to the middle of October. 

How to Keep Grapes. 

1. Select nice fresh clusters, and cut the end of the stem smooth 
and dip in melted sealing wax; then put in cotton batting-, pack 
them away in wooden boxes and keep them in a dry, cool place. 
In this way they will keep fresh all Winter. 

2. Take full bunches, ripe and perfect; seal the end that is cut 
from the vine so that no air can get in, or the juice of the stem run 
out, and then stand one day after sealing, so as to be sure they are 
perfectly sealed, (if not they will shrivel up;) then pack in boxes of 
dry saw-dust and keep in a cool place; they will keep nicely all 
Winter without losing their flavor. In packing do not crowd the 
bunches; sprinkle the saw-dust over the bottom of the box, then 
lay the grapes carefully, a bunch at a time, all over the box, then 
saw-dust and grapes, alternately until the box is full. 

A Cheap GreenhoKse. 

The Germantown Telegraph says: The cheapest plan of erect- 
ing a greenhouse that we have any knowledge of — and we have 
used one successfully for many years — is to dig out a pit in a side 
hill, where the upper end will be just above ground, and the lower 
end will be two or three ste])s down for an entrance. Wall up, 
roof the wall, and cover the whole with sash, as in hot-beds, the 
sash having more fall, say three feet in a width of two, the house 
being fifteen by ten. Erect in this the stand of shelves, and when 
it is time to take up the Summer flowers, bulbs, etc., store them 
here. The glass should be covered with thick straw mats, which 
can be removed even when the weather is coldest, in clear weather, 
for an hour or two at mid-day, to get the warmth and influence of 
the sun. At such times ventilation, also, should be attended to, 
by slightly opening a sash or two. No fire is needed. Nearly all 
the flowering plants will bloom and there will scarcely be a week 



412 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 

during the winter that a bouquet may not be gathered, if the 
house is properly managed. The Summer is the time to make it 
and have it ready for Fall. 

Father FlegaVs Cure for White Swelling. 

The following is said to be an infallible cure for white swelling. 
Many very severe cases have been cured in this community; if all 
is true, that is claimed for it by some of our citizens, it will be 
worth more than the price of this book: Flaxseed oil, one pint; 
half a quarter of redlead; turpentine, out of white pine trees, the 
size of a hulled walnut. Have the oil hot enough to singe a feather 
till it is brown, then set the oil off of the coals; grind the redlead 
and sift it into the crock, boil fifteen minutes, then let the salve 
get nearly cold, then put the turpentine in. Boil the salve in a 
new crock. You must run the risk of the crock breaking; some- 
times you break two or three before you come across one that stands 
fire. Take hard wood chips and make a good bed of coals; set 
the crock on the coals. It will take a whole day to make it, and 
it must be made outdoors. There must be no water about it or 
it will explode. Apply every twenty-four hours; fresh spread 
thin on writing-paper. 

To Remove Ink Sjwts from Marble. 

Ink spots may be removed by first washing with pure water, and 
then with a weak solution of oxallic acid. Subsequent polishing, 
however, will be necessary, as the luster of the stone may become 
dimmed. This can be secured by very finely powdered soft white 
marble, applied with a linen cloth, first dipped in water and then 
into the powder. If the place is subsequently rubbed with a dry 
cloth, the luster will be restored. 

Sticking Plaster. 

Two ounces of rosin, two ounces of bees-wax, two ounces of 
sheep's tallow; when thoroughly melted and bubbles up, pour into 
cold water to cool them. Pull like taffy. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



CAKES. Page 

Pound Cakes 6, 7 

Sponge Cakes 8, 9 

Hickory Nut Cakes 11, 12 

Almond, Walnut and Date Cakes-. 12 

Cocoanut Cakes 12, 13 

Lemon and Orange Cakes 13 

Number, Cornstarch and Snow 

Cakes 14 

Angel Food and Bride Cakes 15 

Cup, Pearl, Crumb and Straw Cakes 16 

One Egg Cake 16 

Cottage, Tea, and Holiday Cakes. . . 17 

Spice Cakes 17 

Cheap, Pork, Superior, and Rail- 
road Cakes 18 

Huckelberry Cake 18 

Watermelon, Coffee, and Tea Cakes 19 

Marble Cakes 19, 20 

Mountain Ash Cake 20 

LAYER CAKES. 

Velvet and Vanity Cake 21 

Gold and Silver Cakes 22 

Tri-colored Cake 23 

Snowflake Cakes 23 

Dolly in the Blanket 23 

Cup Cake 24 

Ice Cream Cakes 24, 25 

Chocolate Cakes 25, 26 

Dolly Varden Cake 26 

Excellent and Lady Cake 26 

AVhite Mountain Cakes 27 

Fig Cakes 28 

Minnehaha Cake 28 

Garfield Cake 29 

French Cream Cakes 29 

Cream and Rochester Cakes 30 

Roll Jelly Cakes 30 

Orange Cakes 30, 31 

Banana and Ambrosia Cakes 31 

Tea and Delicate Cake 31 

Snow Cake 32 

Lady Fingers 32 

Iceingfor Cakes 32,34 

Filling for Orange Cake 34 

Vanilla Cream Filling 34 

Cheap Frosting ^i 

SMALL CAKES AND COOKIES. 

.Tumbles and Tarts 35, 38 

Ginger Cakes 38, 39 

Sponge Ginger Bread 39' 

Soft Ginger Bread 40 

Ginger Snaps 40, 41 

Wafers 41 

Lemon Snaps 41 

Doughnuts 42 

Crullers 42 



Page 

Snow Balls 43 

French Straws 43 

Crentylsus 43 

Puffets 43 

German Puffs 43 

Puffs 44, 45 

Rosettes 45 

Muffins 45, 47 

Sally Lunn without Yeast 48 

Rusk 48 

French Rolls 48, 49 

Buns, Whigs, Rye Drop Cakes and 

Gems 50, 51 

Corn Cakes 53, 54 

Strawberry Sponge Cake 54 

Orange Short Cake 54 

Strawberry Short Cake 54 

Raspberry Short Cake 54 

Peach Cake 55 

Cream Pie Cake 55 

Crackers 55 

Soda Crackers 56 

Waffles, Flannel Cakes, Fritters, 

Tarts 56, 60 

BREAD. 

Baking 61 

Bread 62,64 

Yeast 64 

Yeast Cakes 64 

Corn Mush 65 

Oat Meal Mush 65 

Oat Meal for Breakfast 65 

Pearl Wheat 65 

Blackberry Mush 66 

Flour Tests 66 

PIES. 

Rich Pastry 67 

Pastries 68 

Cocoanut Pies 68, 69 

Cocoanut Tarts 69 

Chocolate Pie 69 

Apple Custard Pie 70 

Pumpkin Pies 70 

Cream Pie - 70 

Lemon Pies 71, 73 

Cracker Pie 72 

Silver Pie 72 

Shoo Fly Pie 72 

Custard Pie 73 

Ginger Pie 73 

Orange Pie 73 

Pine-apple Pie 73 

Ripe Currant Pie 73 

Green Currant Pie 74 

Gooseberry Pie 74 

Mock Apple Pie 74 

Apple Pie 74 



414 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



Page 

Rhubarb Pies 75 

Mince Pies 75 

Temperance Mince Pie 75 

Mince Meat for Pies 75, 76 

Raisin Pie 76 

Savory Lamb Pie 76 

Peach Pie 76 

Dried Peach Pie 77 

Dried Apple Pie 77 

Oyster Pie 77 

Maryland Pie 77 

PUDDINGS. 

Snow Pudding's 78 

Orange Pudding 79 

Dixie Pudding 79 

Lemon Puddings 80 

Enjoyable Pudding 80 

Cocoanut Puddings 81 

Green Corn Puddings 81, 83 

Cornstarch Pudding 83 

Cabinet Pudding 83 

Dandy Pudding 83 

Rice Puddings 83 

Lebanon Pudding 83 

Hedge Hog- Pudding 84 

Tapioca Pudding's 84 

Bread Puddings 85 

Roll Pudding 85 

Hasty Pudding- 86 

Huckleberry Puddings 86 

Suet Puddings 86,87 

Plum Pudding 87 

Pruit Pudding 87 

Bird's Nest Pudding 87 

Peach Pudding 88 

Steamed Puddings 88 

Delmonico Pudding 89 

Velvet Pudding 89 

Apple Flummery 89 

Delicate Pudding 89 

Puflf Pudding 89 

Orange Snow Balls 90 

Cottage Puddings 90 

Sweet Potato Pudding 90 

Parina Pudding 90 

Savory Pudding 91 

French Puff Pudding 91 

Oxford Pudding 91 

Brown Betty 91 

Buttermilk Pudding .' 91 

Lemon Cream Pudding 93 

Gough Pudding 93 

Strawberry Pudding 93 

Plum Pudding 93 

Amber Pudding 93 

Noodle Pudding 93 

Suet Batter Pudding 93 

Steamed Meat Pudding 94 

Chocolate Pudding 94 

PUDDING SAUCES. 95, 97 

CUSTARDS. 98, 101 
BLANC MANGES. 103, 105 

GELATINE. 106, 110 

CREAMS. Ill, 119 



Page 
ICE CREAM. 130, 134 

CONFECTIONERY. 135, 130 

POULTRY AND GAME. 

Selecting Poultry 131 

Poultry 133 

To Cut up a Chicken 133 

Stewed Cliicken 134 

Smothered Chickens 134 

Spanish Dish — Chicken and Rice. . . 134 

Fried Spring Chickens 135 

Fricassed Chicken 135 

Pressed Chickens 136 

Roast Chicken 136 

Chicken Salad 137 

Scalloped Chicken 137 

Chicken Croquetts 137 

Broiled Chicken 138 

Steamed Chicken 138 

Chicken Pie 138 

Chicken Oyster Pie 139 

Broiled Pheasant or Prairie Chicken 139 

Smothered Prairie Chicken 140 

Broiled Quails 140 

Roast Wild Duck 141 

Turkey Dressed with Oysters 141 

Boned Turkey 143 

Goose 143 

To Pot Birds 143 

Broiled Woodcock 143 

Rabbits 144 

STUFFING FOR POULTRY. 144, 145 
SALADS AND SAUCES. 

Melted or Drawn Butter 146 

Hotel Sauce 146 

Egg Sauce 147 

Horse Radish Sauce 147 

Egg Sauce for Salt Fish 147 

Lobster Sauce 147 

Pepper Vinegar 148 

Mayonaise Dressing 148 

French Mayonaise Dressing for 

Sliced Tomatoes 148 

Sauce Mayonaise 148 

Fish or Meat Sauce 148 

Lettuce Dressing 148 

Chili Sauce 149 

Celery Vinegar 149 

Curry Powder— for Gravies, Ducks, 

and other Meats 149 

Mint Sauces • 150 

Lemon Sauce 150 

Tomato Sauce 150 

Celery Sauce 150 

Oyster Sauce 150 

Horse-radish 151 

Apple Sauce 151 

Prepared Mustard 151 

German Mustard 151 

Chicken Salad 151,153 

Lobster Salad 153 

Sardine Salad 153 

Tomato Salads 154 

Celery Salad 154 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



415 



Page 

Cabbagre Salad 154, 155 

Salmon Salad 155 

Potato Salad 155 

Celery Slaws 156 

Asparagus Salad 156 

Chicken Salad 156 

Salad Dressing : 156 

Sweet Bread Salad 157 

OMELETS. 158, 160 

Peached Eggs 161 

Boiled Eg-gs 161 

Scrambled Eggs 161 

Shirred Eggs 161 

Breaded Eggs 161 

Eggs with Cheese 161 

Stuffed Eggs 163 

SHELL FISH. 163, 173 

FISH. 

Turbot 174 

Baked Fish 174 

Baked Shad 175 

Fried Mackerel 175 

Broiled Mackerel 175 

Fried Eels 175 

Fried Catfish 176 

To Fry Trout 176 

Speckled or Brook Trout and Lake 

Trout 176 

Fried Shad 176 

Baked White Fish 176 

Fried Halibut 177 

Soused Mackerel 177 

Boiled Fish 177 

Boiled Codfish 177 

Broiled Codfish 178 

Codfish Balls 178 

Fried Codfish 178 

Broiled Fresh Cod 179 

Boiled Salt Mackerel 179 

Boiled White Fish 179 

Broiled White Fish 179 

Canned Salmon 179 

Kock Fish Boiled 180 

Fried Shad 180 

Salmon Patties 180 

SOUPS. 181, 189 

MEATS. 

To Choose Meats 190, 191 

General Rules for Cooking Meat. . 191 

Broiled Beefsteak 193 

French Beefsteak 193 

Fried Meat 193 

Boiled Meat 193 

Parboiled Bcaf 193 

Breakfast Roll 193 

Beef au Graten 194 

Beef Lunch or Breakfast Dish.. . 194 

Beef Omelet 194 

Beef Hash 195 

Beef Cakes 195 

Beef Loaf 195 

Beef Relish 195 

Savory Beef 196 

Fricadelles 196 



Page 

Mock Terrapin 196 

Breakfast Stew of Beef 196 

Roast Beef 196 

Lamb to Boil or Roast 197 

Roast of Venison 197 

Pressed Beef 198 

Tongue 198 

Boiled Tongue 198 

Beef's Heart 199 

Beef's Liver 199 

Beef Loaf 199 

Croquetts 300 

Beefsteak and Toast 200 

Beefsteak Pie 200 

Dried Liver 300 

Beefsteak Pot-pie 201 

Frizzled Beef 301 

Dried Beef in Cream 301 

Deviled Beef 201 

Broiled Beefsteak for Invalids 301 

Fried Tripe 203 

Beefsteak Smothered with Onions. 203 

Sweet-breads 202 

Sweet-breads Broiled 202 

Sweet-breads Boiled 302 

Sweet-breads Fried 303 

Sweet-breads Baked 303 

Kidneys Broiled or Boasted 303 

Stewed Kidneys 303 

Lamb Chops Broiled 204 

Lamb Stewed 304 

Lamb Cutlets Fried 304 

A Leg of Mutton Roasted 304 

Veal Cutlets 305 

Veal Fried 305 

Savory Meat 205 

Veal Loaf 206 

Veal Scallop 206 

Marbled Veal 206 

Veal Olives with Oysters 206 

Veal Chops Breaded 207 

Veal Stewed 207 

Veal Pot-pie 208 

Veal Cutlets, A la Milanalse 208 

Roast Veal 208 

Pork Chops Broiled 209 

Pork Chops Fried 209 

Roast Loin of Pork 309 

Roast Pig 209 

To Roast a Leg of Pork 310 

Roast Chime of Pork 210 

Boiled Pigs Feet 211 

Fried Spare Rib 311 

Broiled Ham 211 

Boiled Ham 211 

New Way of Cooking Sausages. -. . 212 

Sandwiches 212, 213 

To Cure Hams and Beef 213, 214 

PICKLES OB RELISHES. 

Cauliflower Pickles 215 

Tomato Catsups 216 

German Sauce 216 

Pickled Beans 216 

Mixed Pickles 217 

Mustard Pickles ... 217 



416 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



Page 

Chopped Pickles 217 

Tomato Sauce 217 

Chow Chow 217, 218 

Borden Sauce 218 

Reagan Pickles 218 

Chow Chowder 218 

Higdon 219 

Gherkins 219 

Mushroom Catsup 219 

Cold Tomato Catsup 219 

Pickled Tomatoes 220 

Tomato Soy 220 

Grape Catsup 220 

Mangoes 220 

Tomato Pickles 221 

Prime Pickle 221 

Walnut Pickles 221 

Currant Catsup 233 

Indian Hill Citron Pickle 222 

Pickled Plumbs 223 

Pickled Grapes 222 

Pickled Peaches 223 

Spiced Peaches 233 

Spiced Damsons or Plumbs 223 

VEGETABLES. 

Spanish Dishes 234 

Tomatoes 224, 236 

Peas 226 

Turnips, Beets, Parsnips and On- 
ions -^ 227 

Mushrooms 227, 238 

Squashes, Succotash and String 

Beans 228 

Sweet Corn 339 

Egg and Oyster Plant 239 

Mock Oysters 230 

Corn Oysters 230 

Cauliflower and Cabbage 230 

Cold Slaw, Cucumbers and Maca- 
roni 330, 231 

Spinach, Asparagus and Hominy. . 333 
Carrots, Beans, and Artichokes- • • 233 
Dandelions, Horseradish and Cel- 
ery 234 

Parsley, Kice, Okra and Sea Kale. 235 
Hominy and Potatoes 236, 240 

JELLIES, JAMS, PRESERVES. 
Tellv 242,245 

ffl:. 245:247 



Page 

Preserves 247, 249 

CANNING FRUIT. 249, 251 
DRIED AND FRESH FRUITS, 351, 253 
DRINKS AND FOOD FOR IN- 
VALIDS. 254, 261 
POULTICES; REMEDIES, &C. 262, 366 
COFFEE, CHOCOLATE AND 

TEA. 267, 269 

TEMPERANCE DRINKS. 270, 271 

THE LAUNDRY. 272, 277 

CARVING. 278, 284 

THE DINING ROOM. 

Dinner 303, 303 

Table Arrangement 304 

Breakfast 304 

Luncheon 305 

Table Manners 305, 306 

THE KITCHEN. 308, 313 

Kitchen Receipts 313, 316 

THE TOILET. 

How to be Beautiful 317 

General Bules tor Bathing 317, 318 

Baths 318, 321 

Care of Hair 321 

Care of Hands 322 

Care of the Feet 323 

Receipts for the Toilet 324, 331 

HOUSE-KEEPING. 332, 334 

HOUSE-FURNISHING. 335, 336 

HOUSE-CLEANING. 337,339 

The Question of Moths 339 

How to Air Apartments 340 

Carpets and Sweeping 341 

Dust and Dusting 342 

Kalsomining *J^ 

Papering gf^ 

Concluding Remarks o44 

SICK ROOM. 345, 348 

MEDICAL RECEIPTS. 349, 355 

FANCY WORK. 356, 379 

FLORICULTURE. 380, 403 

MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS, 403, 413 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 





013 514 845 3 



