



NuMseR TrfRee. 



f 



C. I. H-OOD & CO.'S LABORATORY. 



It may truly bo said that the new 
Laboiatory of C. I. Hood & Co., in 
Lowell, Mass., is already one of the 
prominent landmarks of the city. Bes- 
idents of the thriving municipality, in 
showing visiting friends the places of 
interest, with great local pride point to 
tlve Laboratory of «. I. Hood & Co. as 

INDISPUTABLE EVIDENCE 

of the wonderful success of the great- 
est blood purifier of the age. Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. The new building is in 
a location which can hardly be sur- 
passed. The lot of land, which em- 
braces 70,000 square feet, is situated 
on Thorndike Street, near the heart 
of the city, on a high elevation ; fronting 
on the east, the beautiful South Common, 
the largest of the city's 

BREATHING PLACES ; 

adjoining, on the south, the expan- 
sive and well-kept grounds of the 
Middlesex County Jail, which is one 
of the most suttstantial and finest stone 
buildings in the country; overlooking* 
on the nortk, the elegant residence and 
beautiful gardens of Mrs. Paift R. ©eorge; 
and touching, on the west, the line of 
the Boston & Lowell Railroad, from 
which a branch track is run directly 
to the rear of the Laboratory, so that 
freight facilities are all that could be 
desired. The building is in full view 
of all passenger trains running over the 
railroad betv»'een Boston and Montreal, 
and is viewed and commented upon 
daily by thousands of passengers. 

THE LABORATORY 

is in size 100x50 feet, four stories high, 
of brick, and constructed in as thorough 
and substantial a manner as the ledge 
upon which it rests. It is apparent 
to the most casual observer that it is 
constructed without regard to gaudy 
display, but f®r the purpose of doing 
hvsiness, thoroughly, quickly, con- 
veniently, and well. Inside the building 
everything is found to be arranged with 
this object in view. The basement of the 
building is used for storage, reception 
of freight, and shipping by rail; con- 



nected witli the basement, but in 
separate building, is a boiler soom, li 
which is a 40-horse power boiler usei 
for heating, power for elevator, etc! 
The first story is used for a printing- 
office, storage of packed goods, anc 
shipping by express. On the second 
floor are rooms for bottling and pack- 
ing ; a large counting-room, where 
fifteen or twenty clerks, having charge 
of the adj^ertising and other branches 
of the business, are employed ; and an' 
elegantly fitted up private office. Elec- 
tric calls communicate with every 
desk, and there are speaking tubes to 
all parts of the building. On the third: 
floor is a large room for the massive 
tanks holding the Sarsaparilla. There 
are in actual use, six tanks, having a| 
capacity of 90,000 bottles. On this flooi 
there is also a bindery, where the 
printed sheets for the celebrated 

HOOD'S COOK BOOK, \ 

Hood's Latest, Hood's Item, and otheri 
publications, ai-e folded and bound ; and 
also rooms for the manufacture ofj 
Hood's Tooth Powder, Hood's Olive 
Ointment, and Hood's Vegetable Pills. 
The fouith floor is devoted to the 
manufacturing department or labora-; 
tory, and the storage of roots, herbs,; 
etc. Everywhere the utmost neaHiessf 
is observed; and the excellent .system 
of the proprietors is closely adhered to. 

THE GREATEST CARE 

is used in the manufacturing processes, 
and from the first, there has been a 
constant, determined, and successful 
effort to make every bottle of Hood's 
Sarsaparilla as perfectly reliable as 
though it had been specially com- 
pounded by an expert pharmacist 
from a physician's prescription. 

A brief sketch relating to Hood 
Sarsaparilla will be found on the thii 
page of the cover of this Cook Book, 
and an engraving of the Laboratory is, 
given on the fourth page. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is sold by 
druggists. Price $1 a bottler, six for $5i 
One Hundred Doses One Dollar. 



HOOD'S Cook Book 

NUMBER THREE. 



RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED TO THE LADIES 
OF THE UNITED STATES. 



PUBLISHED IN RESPONSE TO THE DESIRES OF THOUSANDS WHO HAVE 
USED, WTYll PKE-EiVaNENT SUCCESS AND ENTIRE SATIS- 
FACTION, THE RECEIPTS PUBLISHED IN 



Hood's Cook Book IS^umber One, 

AND 

Hood's Cook Book JS'umber Two, 



AND PRESENTED FREE OF CH.iRGE 
TO EVERY HOUSEKEEPER. 






This Book contains an entirely new collection of Receipts, none of which have been 
published in previous numbers of Hood's Cook Book. Copies may be obtained of 
Druggists, or by sending address on postal card to the Publishers. 



COPYRIGHTED AND PUBLISHED BY 

C. I. HOOD & CO., APOTHECARIES. 

LABORATORY: THORNDIKE STREET, 
LOWELL, MASS. 



\^ 



1- y 






ydf- 



OBJECTS OF HOOD'S COOK BOOK 



Cooking has of late yeai-s been made 
a matter of so mucli thought ancl%tudj' 
and skill, that it may now be considered 
a science. The growth of the American 
people in general education, in refine- 
ment, and in wealth, has demanded 
an improvement in every conceivable 
direction. Homes are more artistic, are 
better built, are better ventilated, are 
more convenient, than ever before ; 
metliods of travelling are more rapid, 
safer, and more comfortable than in 
the past ; clothing for both sexes is of 
better material, better appearance, and 
is more perfectly adapted to seasons 
and personal peculiarities. With this 
general march of improvement, it is 
a matter of course that considerable 

IMPROVE^tEXT IX COOKING 

has been demanded, and our kitchens 
have been constructed and arranged 
with the object of making the work 
of cooking for the household as con- 
venient, as easy, and as perfect as pos- 
sible, so far as mechanical appliances 
are concerned. But there is something 
beyond and above conveniences and 
utensils, necessary to make the kitchen 
department a success. It is the general 
education, the good judgment, the 
delicate skill, and the experience of 
the housewife, which makes her de- 
partment the complete success which 
is necessary to the happiness of every 
household. To aid in achieving this 
success is one of the two objects of 

HOOD'S COOK BOOK, 

nnd we are confident that every person 
who reads these lines will agree with us 
that it is a laudable object. In these 
pages will be found many receipts, all of 
which have stood the test of repeated 
trial, and, If intelligently followed, will 
bring about most satisfactory results. 



The second object of the publication 
of Hood's Cook Book, and one which 
we believe fully equal in import.-incc 
to the one alluded to in the first 
coltunn, is to place l)efore the people 
the claims of Hoofl's Sarsaparilla 
upon their confidence and patronage. 
The record of euros effected by Hood's 
Sarsaparilla unmistakably i>rove its 
curative \Mlue. The public arc not 
deceived by the unnatural and unrea- 
sonable pretensions with which news- 
paper advertisements are filled. We 
believe the honest course pursued by 
us, in all things pertaining to Hood's 
Sarsaparilla, is the only road to per- 
manent success. We solicit a complete 
and impartial investigation of what 

riOOD'S SAK8ArARILLA 

has done and is doing, leaving the 
result to the sturdy conunon-sense and 
generosity of the public. We challenge 
any i)rei)aratiou to show a home appre- 
ciation so thoroughly vouched for. Thirty 
of the leading druggists of Lowell, Mass.. 
testify as follows: — 

"We sell more Hood's Sarsaparilla 
than any other sarsaparilla or blood 
purifier. Its sale with us has been un- 
precedented, and present demand indi- 
cates that the sale this year will exceed 
that of any previous year." 

If you are suffering from Scrofula. 
Salt-Eheimi, Catarrh, Biliousness, Head- 
ache, Dyspepsia, or any other blood dis- 
ease, and are desirous of obtaining 

MORE INFORMATION 

regarding the value of Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla, we shall be glad to send you, 
upon receipt of address, a book contain- 
ing a few of the wonderful cm-es. 
Ver>' truly yours, 

C. I. HOOD & CO., 
Apothecaries, Lowell, MaSvS. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla — 100 Doses One Dollar 



HOOD'S COOK BOOK 




|-|G.3 



Mocl-es of Folding 

To Fold the Mitre. If the napkin 
))e square, lay a fold on one side, so 
that It may become an oblong, one 
tliird longer than wide. Lay three 
folds, like the letter Z, preserving the 
length. Fold both ends to the middle, 
meeting miderneath. Turn the left- 
liand iip])er eurncr square to the lower 
edge, and the right-hand lower <'orner 
square to the upper edge. You should 
now have Fig. 1. Now fold in halves 
th.e long way; open the points of the 
mitre, and you should have Fig. 2. 
Bpud the left-hand point to the right, 
and tuck in a fold, and the right-hand 
point In the opposite direction and 
ruck in. You should now have Fig. 3, 
or the Bishop's Mitre. 



nc 10. 
the Table Na/phin. 

i To Fold the Calla. Fold a square 
I napkin like a half handkerchief. Fold 
the opposite points to meet on the centre 
point. Roll the bottom corner as in Fig. 
I 4. Turn the napkin over, and roll point 
[ a to near the centre ; tuck ])olnt h in a 
I fold. Raise it and you should have 
I Fig. T). Turn the corners down and 

tuck in as ;it Fig. G. 
I To Fold for Cakes. Fold the cor- 
ners of a s(iuare napkin to meet tlie 
centre; turn each corner back to the 
I edge as in Fig. 7. Turn over carefully 
without unfolding ; turn two opj)Osite 
edges to the centre, as in Fig. 8. Turn 
It over and meet the other two ends hi 
the middle, and you should have Fig. 9 
Insert cakes, tarts, etc., as In Fig, lo. 



Hood''s Snrmparilla — Pe<iuliar to Ttse{f, 



HOOD'S COOK BOOK. 



Stock,, or Pot-axi-Feu. 

Pieces of fresh beef, bones, briskets, 
skin, tops, trimmings, bits of cooked 
beef, mutton, lamb, veal, fowl, misalted, 
— anything that will make a jelly; 
also, slices of carrots, beets, onions, 
parsley ; avoid spices and herbs, and 
use salt sparingly. Fill a pot half full ; 
fill up with cold water. Don't let it 
boil for the first half hour on any ac- 
count; after that, let it simmer gently, 
four, five, or seven hours; skim well, 
and stew till it has reached a rich con- 
sistency; then take it off the fire, strain 
through a coarse napkin, and set away 
to cool. "When cold, take oft" all the fat, 
and it should pour clear from sediment. 
If desiEcd to be very rich, add jelly 
from a cow heel, or a lump of butter 
rolled in flour. 

Never permit the stock pot to get 
empty. So soon as one is placed in the 
larder, commence another. If it accu- 
mulates, boil down to a glaze. Did you 
ever try Hood's SarsaparillaV 

Tomato Soup. 

One teaspoonful butter, 2 teaspoon- 
fuls flour, 1 pint beef stock, >i of a 
small onion. Put butter in frying-pan, 
cut onion in small pieces and brown ; 
add 1 can tomatoes and cook l hour ; 
pass through sieve, return to fire and 
add the stock and flour. Season with 
salt, pepper, and Worcestershire sauce. 
Serve hot. Hood's Sarsaparilla sharpens 
the appetite. 

French Stew. 

Put a little butter into a spider. 
Slice a small piece of onion and brown 
in the butter. Cut carrot and turnip 
into fancy shapes and cook in water 
until tender. Put the gravy left from 
the roast into the spider, cook a few 
minutes and strain. Now cut nice 
slices of the cold roast meat and put 
into the gravy. Cook lo or 15 minutes; 
put in the carrot and turnip. Pour on 
to a platter and serve. French canned 
peas may be added. Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla invigorates the weak and delicate. 



Three Peculiarities. 

The superior qualities of Hood's Sar- 
saparilla are secured by three peculiar- 
ities, namely : — 

First. — The combination of remedial 
agents used. 

Second. — The proportion in which they 
are mixed. 

Third. — The process by which the 
active medicinal properties are secured. 

These are peculiar to Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla, and are unlike any other. The 
result of these peculiarities is a medi- 
cine of peculiar strength, which effects 
cures hitherto unknown. A trial, or 
even a glance at the article, inspires 
confidence, because it bears unquestion- 
able indication of a thorough understand- 
ing by those who originated it. Another 
peculiarity of Hood's Sarsaparilla, is 

100 DOSES ONE DOLLAR, 

an unanswerable argument as to econ- 
omy and strength. If you are sick, try 
this excellent medicine; it has given 
health and happiness to many, and you 
may reasonably expect it will to you. 
The cures effected by Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla speak volumes in its praise, and are 
constantly adding to its influence. No 
better evidence of its worth is needed 
than its enormous sale. An article with- 
out merit cannot attain the popular de- 
mand which this medicine has reached. 

Substantial Evidence. 

The following letter tells its own 
story, and bears on its face the in- 
telligence and good common-sense of 
the lady who wrote it. We are pleased 
to publish such substantial evidence 
of the merit of Hood's Sarsaparilla: — 

"Unsolicited I send only such recom- 
mendations as Hood's Sarsaparilla de- 
serves. Spring and fall we use one or 
two bottles of Hood's Sarsaparilla in our 
family of four, with most satisfactory 
results. My little girl of two and a 
half years, a strong, healthy child, but 
very full-blooded, and a hearty eater, 
was troubled greatly with styes on her 
eyes. We tried various remedies, but 
witli no lasting effect. At last I resorted 



Rood's Sarsaparilla — 100 Doses One Dollar. 



HOOJrS SABSAPARILLA. 



to Hood's Sarsaparilla, and from the 
first of May, when I had used it first 
for that purpose, she has not had the 
least vestige of a sty. By keeping the 
blood in a pure condition, the whole 
system is purified. So, both for econ- 
omy and comfort, we use Hood's Sar- 
saparilla." Mrs. Charles Brewster, 
19 Park Street, Buffalo, N. Y. 

Cream Potato. 

Cut 1 (juai-t of cold potatoes in very 
thin slices. Put a teaspoonful of butter 
into a frying-pan, and when it is hot, 
add a teaspoonful of flour. Stir until 
smooth; do not let it browoi. Add a cup 
of milk, or cream, gradually, keeping it 
hot all the time. Let it come to a boil. 
Season the potatoes with, salt and pep- 
per, and pour them into the sauce. 
Cover, and when the potatoes are hot, 
they are done. Serve without delay- 
Hood's Sarsaparilla is excellent. 

Escallaped Potatoes. 

Peel and slice potatoes thin, same 
as for frying. Butter an earthen dish, 
l)ut in a lay-er of potatoes, and season 
with salt, pepper, butter, a bit of onion 
chopped fine; sprinkle a little flour. 
Now put another layer of potatoes and 
the seasoning. Continue in tliis way 
till the dish is filled. Just before put- 
ting into the oven, pour a cup of milk 
over. Bake ?i of an hour. 
Potato Puff. 

Two cupfuls mashed potatoes; 2 table- 
spoonfuls melted butter. Stir these, 
with a seasoning of salt, to a light, fine 
creamy consistency. Beat 2 eggs sepa- 
rately, and add with six tablespoonf uls of 
cream. Beat all together, well and 
lightly. Pile in an irregular, jagged 
form in a dish. Bake in a quick oven, 
till nicely colored. Hood's Sarsaparilla 
is the best spring medicine. The wise 
and i)rudent know this. 

The excellence of baked potatoes 
depends upon eating them as soon as 
done, and not before. They are worth- 
less till cooked, and dry rapidly so soon 
as baked through. 



Spring Medicine. 

Varied and diverse as are the 
poisons capable of swimming in the 
current of the blood, and distinct as 
are the diseases and disorders they 
give rise to, Hood's Sarsaparilla, by 
its positive quality of purifying and 
clarifying the blood, is the one best 
remedy. Take it in season at the first 
symptom of lassitude, weariness, or 
weakness. Don't give the poison time 
to concentrate and attack some vital 
part. It is the first step which tells. 
The enfeebled condition warns you of 
the presence of the poison. Dislodge 
it while the patient has strength. Take 
Hood's Sarsaparilla till its vitalizing 
I effects produce a return of your good 
{ health and your buoyant feelings. 

You are run down. No specific dis- 
! ease has manifested itself, but the 
; condition of your system is low, and 
; your blood is in a disordered state. 
Try Hood's Sarsaparilla, the vitalizing 
effects of which upon the entire human 
organism render it a most effective 
spring medicine. It has kept hundreds 
from subsequent disease. It will give 
you an increase of appetite. It will 
promote digestion. It will unload the 
blood of its impurities, thus improving 
the circulation. No other preparation 
tones and strengthens the system like 
Hood's Sarsaparilla. Sold by druggists. 
Price $1 a bottle, or six bottles for $5. 
Prepared only by C. I. Hood & Co., 
Apothecaries, Lowell, Mass. 

That Terrible Latiguor. 

" I regard Hood's Sarsaparilla as the 
most reliable and best spring medicine. 
I had tried many others without good re- 
sults, and consequently condemned all 
alike, until I gave Hood's Sarsaparilla 
a fair trial, when I was convinced it was 
superior to all others. Every spring I 
take three bottles of Hood's Sarsaparilla, 
and know nothing of tiiat terrible lan- 
guor so prevalent at that season of the 
year. I have just finished my first bottle 
for 1883, and already feel mucb im- 
proved." Mrs. J. M. Carter, Boston. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla — Peculiar to Itself. 



HOOD'S COOK BOOK. 



Hash. 

Chop the cooked meat and twice as 
ranch potatoes, cold, in separate bowls. 
Pnt a little water, boiling, and a bit 
of butter into an iron saucepan stew- 
pan, or spider ; bring to a boil. Then 
put in the meat and potatoes, well salted 
and peppered. Add other vegetables, 
if desired. Let it cook through well, 
under cover, stirring occasionally, so 
that tlie ingredients be evenly distrilv 
uted and to keep the bottom from 
sticking to the pan. When done, it should 
be not at all watery, nor yet dry, but 
have sufficient adhesiveness to stand 
on well-trimmed and buttered toast, on 
which it should be served. Hash from 
cold poultry can be made same way. In 
the spring take Hood's Sarsaparilla, 
to purify and vitalize the blood. 

BeefsteaTx. 

The first requirement is not so much 
a tender and juicy steak, though this is 
always desirable, but a glowing bed of 
coals, a wire gridiron, — a stout one, 
with good-sized wires, and double, so 
that you can turn the steak Avithout 
touching it. The steak sheuld be 
pounded only in extreme cases, when 
it is cut too thick and is " stringy." 
Attempt nothing else when cooking the 
steak ; have everything else ready for 
the table ; the potatoes and vegetables 
dished and In the warming-closet. 
From 4 minutes onward is needed to 
cook the steak. The time must depend 
on the size, and you can easily tell by 
the color of the gravy which runs from 
the steak, when gently pressed with a 
knife, as to its condition. If the mas- 
ter of the house like it " rare done," 
it will be safe to infer that it is done 
enough for him, Avhen there is a suspi- 
cion of brown gravy with the red ; 
if, as is generally the case, the next 
stage is the favorite one, remove the 
steak from the gridiron the instant the 
gravy is of a light brown. Remove it 
to a platter, pepper and salt to suit 
your taste, put on small lumps of but- 
iwr, and then, for two brief moments, 



cover it Avith a hot plate, the two mo- 
I ments being sufficient to carry It to the 
! table. One absolutely essential factor 
I in the preparation of good be-efsteak is 

that it must be served at once. 

! Talce It Now. 

i This is the month to purify the blo<xl. 
I and Hood's Sarsaparilla is the best med- 
icine to do it. At no other season is the 
I system so susceptible to the beneficial 
I elfects of medicine, —hence this is the 
I time to take Hood's Sarsaparilla to 
I purify your blood and fortify your sys- 
I tem against the debilitating effects of 
I changing weather. It sharpens the appe- 
I tite, tones the stomach, invigorates the 
I aged, and imparts new life and energy to 
j all the fimctions of the body. 
I F. H. Pinkham, editor Newmarket, 
: K. H., Advertiser, writes: "I have taken 
I four bottles of Hood's Sarsaparilla this 
; spring, and it has done me good.' 

Overworked. 

'1 write most of the tljne in an ofifice, 
and often get overworked. Not having 
time to give up, I have taken Hood's 
Sarsaparilla as a vitallzer, and I am sat- 
isfied it has saved me from a fit of sick- 
j ness several times. I take three bottles 
i every spring, and find it pre-eminently 
I superior, as a spring tonic, to anything 
{ I ever took. No one desires life without 
health. After one trial. Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla re<?ommended itself. My boarding- 
mistress says Hood's Sarsaparilla is a 
cure for sick headache." E. J. Chilson, 
Somei-ville, Mass. 

A Steady Hontwopath. 

" I am a pretty steady homteopath, and 
so don't take much of outside prepara- 
tions ; but, for a sort of mental and 
physical torpidity that comes over me In 
midwinter, with evidence of sluggish 
blood, I have used about one bottle of 
Hood's Sarsaparilla, simply taking It 
after each breakfast. I find myself 
clearer-headed and brisker-bodied for it. 
Hood's SarsaparlUa Is a good thing, 
'pathy or no 'pathy." A. H. Siegfexed, 
New York Manager Chicago A>iw^ 



JfonrVs Sar.^apaHUa — 100 ZM.rpv Onf T^lJar 



// O (J ir s S A li >S J F. i Li 1 1. L . I 



Potting Surphus Meats. 

Rather tJiau malntalu an eternal 
succession of hashes, or stews, pot 
your surplus cooked meats, thoroughly- 
pounded, with all unbroken fibres re- 
moved. They will keep a long while, 
and be excellent for lunches, picnics, or 
>>andwiches. Add sauce of any desira- 
ble kind before potting, if agreeable. 

Use Hood's Vegetable Pills, the best 
family cathartic. 

Ham, Beef, Veal, EU-. 

Chop and pound iu a mortar, mixing 
lean ^^^th fat, and se;ison to your taste 
with cayenne or black pepper, mustard, 
curry, salt, and a speck of butter. 
When done, place each meat by itself 
in an earthen or crockery dish, and 
bake for half an hour. Pack, well 
pressed, in small jars holding sufficient 
for single occasion ; cover with a quar- 
ter inch of lukewarm, clarified butter ; 
and paste papers over the top. Label 
each and set away for lunch or picnic. 

Pound In a mortar \K lbs. cold 
tongue, skinned, with spices and 6 oz. 
of butter, adding a little roast veal, 
or the white meat of roasted poultrj', 
and pot as above. In the spring take 
Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Potting FowLs. 

For potting fowls, birds, or game 
clean the meat from bones, and pound 
with spices ; boil the bones to a glaze, 
and moisten the pounded meat vnth 
this. Before potting, run th(^ mass 
through a sieve. Press the meat firmly 
into the jars, and set them in boiling 
water iu a covered stew-pan; steam thus 
half an hour. Press the meat down 
again firmly; \\ipe dry and cover with 
hot butter, or a coarse flour pa.ste. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla is the best mexli- 
cine. It sharpens the appetite and 
makes the weak strong. 

The best of a potato is just under 

the skin ; therefore, pare very thin. 

Cover with cold water and boil gently 
till don«. 



SoroftUa 

Is au inherited disease, and conxmou to 
the children of scrofulous parents. That 
bodily ailments should be transmitted 
to descendants is not more remarkable 
than that resemblances in body and mind 
should b<;. Eveiy where the inheri- 
tance is very marked and veiy sure, 
the greatest encouragement may be 
taken that Hood's Sarsaparilla will ex- 
tirpate the absolnte germs of this in- 
sidious malady. No other medicine 
has so great corrective power. When 
early made use of, and continued after 
all external signs have disappeared. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla will rectify what- 
ever is injurious in the blood, leaving 
the vital fluid pure and free from all 
elements of disease, so that the patient 
will feel entirely renewed. 

Scrofula may be acquired, as well as 
inherited, mainly from want of pure 
air and lack of exercise. An y badly 
ventilated atmosphere, saturated with 
steam, such as prevails in the 

IMMENSE FACTORIES OF TO-DAY. 

is highly favorable to the devel- 
opment of scrofula. Workshops, poi- 
soned by animal effluvia or the prod- 
ucts of putrefaction; boarding-schools, 
prisons, and hospitals, where the in- 
mates are too closely confined by rig- 
orous, coercive rules ; all are liable to 
seriously contaminate the blood. All 
coarse diets, bulky but not nutritious ; 
riotous indulgence in food or drink, 
unless carefully selected ; employments 
in unliealthful climates; exposure, when 
half clad, etc., develop the seeds of an 
otherwise dormant scrofulous condition, 
or produce scrofula originally. In all 
such cases, Hood's Sarsaparilla is val- 
uable as a preventive, and will surely 
check and drive back* the humors ami 
the lumps on membranes, joints, and 
bones, which characterize scrofula. 
100 Doses One Dollar. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is sold by di'ug- 
glsts. Price $1 a bottle, or six bottles 
for $5. Prepared only by C. I. Hood 
& Co., Apothecaries, Lowell, 3Iass. 



Mood's Sarsstparilla — Peculiar to lUelf. 



HOOD'S COOK BOOK. 



Corned Beef. 

If dinner be at 12 or l o'clock, corned 
beef should be put on to boll as early 
as 7 o'clock. If boiled gently for this 
length of time, it will be very tender, 
have a line flavor, and will cut easily 
and gmoothly. Eat with mustard or 
vinegar. Hood's Sarsaptirilla cures in- 
digestion and dyspepsia. 

Pressed Chicken. 

Boil 1 or 2 chickens in a small 
quantity of water, with a little salt; 
when thorouglily done, take all the 
meat from the bones, keeping the light 
and dark meat separate ; chop fine and 
season. Put in a pan a layer of dark 
and light meat; add the liquor it was 
boiled in, which should be about a cupful. 
Press with a small weight. When cold, 
cut in slices. Hood's Sarsaparilla is 
pleasant to the taste. 

Kidney Fritters. 

Four eggs well beaten, 1 teacup of 
cream or good milk, pepper, salt, 
pounded mace, chopped parsley, and 
mushrooms, or mushroom catsup. Chop 
2 or 3 pounds of kidneys line, and mix 
all together. Pour into a buttered pan 
and stir over the fire tlU cooked and 
browned to taste. It should not be too 
moist. 100 doses Hood's Sarsaparilla, $1. 

Fried Lamb Kidneys. 

Boil the kidneys until quite tender. 
Then quarter them. Put a small onion 
in a spldei;, with a generous amount of 
butter. Fry until quite brown. Season 
a Utile. Hood's Sarsaparilla is prepared 
in a manner peculiar to itself. 

Boile-d Pea Pods. 

Boil pea pods in a small quantity of 
water, skim them out and add the peas, 
when tender, butter, cream, pepper, 
and salt ; time, }i an hour. Canned 
peas should be rinsed before cooking, 
and boiled In sugared water. If you 
are sufEering from headache, dizziness, or 
falntness at the stomaola, Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla Is tlio remedy to bring you relief. 



Poisoned "with Scrofula. 

'•For a number of years my blood 
has been poisoned with scrofula. 
The roof of my mouth was about all 
eaten out ; I had no appetite, and my 
body was completely covered with 
blotches and blisters,— in fact, my blood 
was in a terrible condition. I have been 
using about everything ; but instead of 
getting better I continually grew worse. 
About a year ago, seeing the large num- 
ber of testimonials from people similarly 
afflicted as myself, I decided to give 
Hood's Sarsaparilla a trial. The first 
dozen doses I took made me sick. I told 
my wife Hood's Sarsaparilla was not the 
medicine I wanted, and I should not 
take any more. She advised me to use 
what there was in the bottle, and I kept 
on taking it. After a while I began to 
have a good appetite, commenced to gain 
strength, my mouth healed, and my food 
had some taste. The blotches and blis- 
ters also began to disappear. I have 
taken foiir bottles. It is remarkable the 
good it has done me. I have not felt so 
well for years. My wife, seeing it did 
me so much good, thought it would help 
our daughter, as her blood was full of 
scrofula. She was deaf in her left ear, 
and had to breathe tlirough her mouth, 
as the passage through her nose was 
completely stopped. She was getting 
worse every day. She only took one 
bottle, and to-day she can hear as well 
as any one, and I consider her as free 
from all blood disorders as a person can 
be. I have recommended Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla to many people, and they all say 
it is a good thing." Samuel J. Philip, 
Van Wert, Ohio. 

Cancerous Humor. 

" I was a member of a scrofulous family 
and was afflicted with scrofulous and 
cancerous hwmor from infancy. My 
mother, my sister, and my brother, 
each died of this ten'ible disease. 
During the past thirteen years, I have 
taken hundreds of dollars' woilh of 
medicine, including all kinds of sarsa- 
parilla. I received no benefit whatever 



HoocVa Sarsaparilla — 100 Doses One Dollar. 



no Ol)\S SA R N.J PA R ILL A . 



9 



till I began to use Hood's Sarsapa- 
lilla. Before I h;ui finished the first 
bottle, I found T was improving, and 
I am sure that my imjjrovement con- 
tinues." H. J. Stkakns. Willimantic, Ct. 

Cream Oysters. 

One pint cream, a little more than a 
pint of oysters, 1 tablespoonful of flour. 
Salt and pepper to taste. Let the cream 
come to a boil. Mix the flour with a 
little cold milk and stir into the boiling 
cream. Let the oysters come tt> a boil 
in their oa\^i liquor ; then skim care- 
fiuUy. Drain off all the liquor and turn 
the oysters into the cream. Dyspeptics 
find relief in Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Fried Oysters. 

The oysters should be large and the 
cook not hurried. Drain the oysters 
in a colander ; sprinkle pepper and mix 
well, and set them in a cold plat^e for 
15 or 20 minutes before cooking. Roll, 
separately, each oyster in sifted crumbs 
and then in a batter, made of the yolks 
of as many eggs as you have dozens of 
oysters, beaten with a little clarified 
butter, or salad oil, seasoned with a 
pinch of cayenne pepper and salted. Dip 
each oyster from the crumb into this, 
and repeat if cinuubs enough do not 
adhere. Fry in very hot fat, and have 
enough to cover the oysters. They will 
brown beautifully, without turning. 
More bottles Hood's Sarsaparilla sold 
last year than ever before. 

Ih'opped Eggs. 

The water should be well salted. 
Slide from a saucer, singly, the broken 
eggs into it when simmering. Unless 
muiflu-rings are used to keep the eggs 
separate, cook only one at a time. Dash 
with a spoon a little water over the 
egg, to keep the top white. ^Vlien 
done, and do not let it harden, lift 
with a, skimmer, and slip it on thin, 
but hot, buttered toast ; trim to your 
fancy. When all is ready, dust a little 
pepper and salt over each. Hood's 
Sarsaparilla sharpens the appetite and 
improves the digestion. 



An Holiest Medicitie. 

I "About seven years ago a scrofula 
I humor made its appearance on my body, 

more particularly about my hands and 
I wrists, feet and ankles. I became so 
! bad that I went to see a seventh-son 
I doctor, who made a specialty of treating 
■ scrofula. After examining me, lie said 
! salt-rheum had got uppermost, and he 
: would not treat me. Two years ago I 
j met a lady from Amherst, N. H., who had 
I been benefited by the use of Hood's 
I Sarsaparilla, and advised me to try it. 
, I took that season two bottles, and it 
! helped me as nothing else had. This 
! last spring I took two bottles more. My 
I humor has ceased to trouble me ; my 
i sores are all healed ; my health is ex- 
1 cellent, so that I have stopped taking it. 
I I believe Hood's Sarsaparilla to be just 
I what it is lecommended to be, — an 
; honest medicine. I most cordially rec- 
I ommend it." Mrs". J. McClure, Revere, 
I Mass. 

I Corroborated. 

i A lady friend from Amherst, N. H., 
1 speaking of the above case, says: " I am 
i very intimate with Mrs. McClure, and 
j never saw such a sight as her arm was 

before taking Hood's Sarsaparilla. It 
' had to be dressed very often, and we all 
I thought it would have to be amputated. 
! I feel sure that her life was saved by 
I Hood's Sarsaparilla." 

l^ar loose Veins. 

" This certifies that I ha-ve been 
i troubled with varicose veins and a 
scrofulous humor for the past twelve 
or fifteen years, — at times so severely 
as to compel me to use a crutch, or to 
abstain from business entirely. About 
four months since, upon the recom- 
mendation of one of my neighbors, I 
commenced using Hood's Sarsaparilla, 
and have, up to the present time, used 
two bottles and a half of it. My leg is 
entirely healed, I gain daily in strength, 
and have at all times a good appetite." 
C. M. French, Franklin, N. H. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is unequalled as 
a blood purifier. 100 Doses One Dollar. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla-^ PecMliar to Itself. 



1© 



MOOD'S COOK BOOK. 



Ontelet. 

A hot fixe ; put any clean, smooth iron- 
pan or spjder on tJie fire to heat ; mean- 
while, hreak 5 eggs into a basin, 
pepper and salt, and beat with a spoon, 
vigorously, 12 times ; put a piece of 
butter, the size of an egg, into thfe 
heated pan, turn so tliat it will moisten 
the entire bottom ; just as it begins to 
boil, pour in the eggs ; hold the spider- 
handle in your left hand, and, as the 
eggs whiten, carefully, with a spoon, 
draw up lightly from tke bottom, till all 
be equally cooked ; shake with your left 
hand, till the omelet be free from the 
pan, when turn with a spoon one half of 
the omelet over the other ; let it remain 
a moment, but continue shaking, lest it 
adhere ; toss to a warm platter held in 
the right hand, or lift with a flat, broad 
shovel; the omelet will be firai aroimd 
the edge, but creamy and light inside. 
Jf vegetables are to be added, they 
should be already cooked, seasoned, 
and hot; place in the centre of the 
omelet, just before turning ; so with 
mushroom, shrimps, or any cooked in- 
gredients. Hood's Sarsaparilla restores 
vitality, renews animation, and creates 
an appetite. Try it this spring. 

Cold Eggs for it Picnic. 

Boil hard ; halve them lengthwise ; re- 
nK)ve the yolks and choj) them fine, 
with cold chicken, lamb, veal, or any 
tender, roasted meat ; or with bread 
soaked in milk, and any salad, as pars- 
ley, onion, celery, the bread being half 
the whole ; or with grated cheese, a 
little olive oil, drawn butter, flavored. 
Fill the cavity in the eggs with either 
of these mixtures, or any similar prep- 
aration. Press the halves together, 
roll twice in beaten egg and bread 
criunbs, and dip into boiling lard. 
When the color rises delicate, drain. 
The testimonials to Hood's Sarsaparilla 
deserve a careful reading. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is sold by drug- 
gists. Price only $1 a bottle, or six for 
$6. Prepared only by C. I. Hood & Co., 
Apothecaries, Lowell, Mass. 



I>yspepsia^ 

Generally speaking, makes cross and 
irritable a person of naturally pleasant 
disposition. The theory of cure by 
starvation is still held and practised 
by many. Most cases of dyspepsia 
are, as it were, weak stomachs yearn- 
ing for something to do, — willing, but 
unable to do their duty. For instance: 
the dyspeptic eats a hearty meal ; the 
stomach cheerfully reaches out to ful- 
fil its office, but from lack of strength 
and vitality, it is forced to let go, 
and the result is that the undigested 
meal, unnatm-ally imprisoned, strug- 
gles for freedom, and in his terrible 

PALN AND MISERY 

the victim declares, " I will never eat 
another thing." We suggest a simple 
plan of relief, which has proved so 
successful that while It Is hardly 
probable It will cure every case, has 
actually cured so many that it is 
worthy a trial by every sufferer. 

First; Take Hood's SarsapariUa, a 
medicine which contains the proper 
tonics, stimulants, and correctives, that 
will give tone and strength to the diges- 
tive organs, and the ability to perform 
their natural functions. 

Second: Use reasonable moderation 
in your demands; eat wholesome food, 
and plenty of it, but do not cram or 
overload the stomach, so that it will re- 
sent abuse and get beyond all benefit. 

The peculiar combination of vegetable 
tonics, specially effective in toning up the 
stomach, embodied in Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla, have given it wonderful success 
with dyspepsia of almost every form. 
The most ardent friends of Hood's Sar- 
saparilla are constantly surprised to 
observe what a charm it seems to 
hold over this class of ailments. New 
patients are continually trying it, and 
with the most remarkable success. 
Reader, why suffer longer when relief 
is close at hand and easUy attained? 

Thousands of sufferers from dyspepsia 
testify that they have been benefited 
by Hood's Sarsaparilla. 



JfloocVs SarsapariUa — 100 Doses 0n4> Dollar 



// (J o jrs s A n sAr A u j l l a 



U 



stewing. 

Stewing is excellent, wholesome, and 
economical, and is best done on a stove, 
over a slow fire. Keep the lid of the 
9tew-pau closely shut, and simmer the 
contents steadily. Never bring to a 
boil. Np remedy now before the public 
is of so much value in curing sick head- 
ache, biUousness, iudigestiOH. and dys- 
pepsia, as Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Time to Roast. 

Turkey, 10 pounds, stuffed, 3 hours; 
over 10, 4 hours; under 10, not less than 
2 hours. 

After stufflug, let the bird remain 
some time Ivefore cooking. Heat 
through, gradually, before bringing to 
roa,st. The chief secrets are to have 
the bird warmed through, the fire bright 
hot, and to baste often. 

Large fowl, l hour ; small do., *4 hour. 

Duck (be sure it is yoimg), 50 to 60 
minutes ; duckling, 25 to 35 minutes. 

Capon, good size, a full hour. 

Chicken, 20 to 30 minutes. 

Goose, IX hours. 

Pigeon, 20 to 25 minutes. 

Beef, 8 pounds rib or sirloin, 45 min- 
utes, to be rare ; to be well done, 65 
minutes, about 8 minutes per pound ; 
add 10 minutes for every atlditional 
pound ; add 20 minutes for a rump. 

Yoal, 2% hours. 

Lamb, lyi hours, or 6 lbs. to the hour. 

Pork, if a spare-rib of 10 pounds, 2>3 
to 3 hours ; a chine requires another 
hour. 

Glaze is simply strong stock boiled 
(lo\m almost to a thick jelly. 

Plain joints I'oasted make their own 
gra\T. except lamb, which also requires 
a mint sauce. 

For fowis, make a gravy of the gib- 
lets. For game, a bread sauce. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla — take now and it 
will give you sul)stantial benefit, cleanse 
your blood, and tone up your system. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is sold by drug- 
gists. Price $1 a bottle, or six bottles 
for $5. Prepared only by C. I. Hood 
& Co., Apothecaries. Lowell, Mass. 



j Im/pure Blood. 

j A very common error In the troat- 

ment of blood diseases consists in not 

I niaking use, at once, of a medicine of 

, positive qualities, like Hood's Sarsapa- 

j rilla. Rouse the appetite by regular. 

I moderate doses. What you may now 

; cure with a single bottle of Hood's Sar- 

' sa pa rilla, next month will require two, 

because of the advance made in the 

disease, and its stronger hold on you. 

Take Hood's Sarsaparilla for the blood. 

Two Brothers. 

•'• 1 have taken Hood's Sarsaparilla for 
impurities and bad state of my blood, 
and I am sure I have derived much 
good from it. My brother, who is a 
victim to salt-rheum and a humor, 
which brings ringworm all over his 
face, seeing how much I was helped, 
connnenced the use of it. He has been 
so much benefited, that his eyes are 
no longer affected. He is still using 
it." L. E. Howard, Temple, N. H. 

Pxirify Tour Blood. 

If you would avoid foul eruptions 
and painful sores, thrown to the sur- 
face by your corrupt blood, take 
Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Scatter your tumors, your boils, and 
your ulcerous swellings, before they 
break into running sores, by using 
, Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

As they reduce, continue to use 

\ Hood's Sarsaparilla. and dress the in- 

! flamed parts with Hood's Olive Oint- 

i ment, which will immediately have a 

soothing influence, and will leave the 

skin smooth, soft, and healthy. 

Hicli Headache aud Dyspepsia. 

" I was a great sufferer from sick head- 
ache and dyspepsia. There was a con- 
stant misery in my stomach. By ad- 
vice of my neighbor. ^Vlrs. O'liourke, I 
made use of Hood's Sarsaparilla, and 
', I can say, with truth, I am free from 
! headache, and my food does not dis- 
! tress me. I used two bottles." Mks. P. 
! O'GoRMAN, Grand Ave., Brooklj-n. N. Y. 



Mood's Sarsaparilla — Peculiar to Itself. 



12 



HOOD'S COOK BOOK, 



Chicken and Macaroni. 

One chicken boiled until very tender ; 
take all from the bones and pick up 
very fine. Boil K pound macaroni 
until tender, but keep it whole ; cut in 
small pieces l inch long. Butter a two- 
quart Charlotte Russe tin and line with 
the pieces of macaroni ; put in a layer 
of chicken, seasoned with the liquor 
boiled down ; salt, pepper, and a very 
little butter ; then a layer of macaroni, 
and so on until the dish is filled. Pour 
a cup of cream over the whole, and 
bake half an hour. Serve on a platter. 

Chicken Salad. 

Boil a tender young chicken ; when 
cold, strip the meat from the bones, 
and cut into small cubes, — not too small. 
Cut the white celery stalks into pieces 
X of an inch in length. Now mix 
3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar to i of olive 
oil, salt, pepper, and spice to your taste, 
and pour this over the chicken and 
celery mixed. Let it set in a cool place 
1 hour at least, 2 will not hurt. Pre- 
pare a Mayonnaise sauce, and inunedi- 
ately before serving, mix all in a dish, 
leaving an abundance of the sauce to 
cover the mass, which is highest in the 
centre, dished in the form of a flat dome. 
At the top insert a bouquet of fresh, 
green celery, and lay a row around the 
edge of the dish. If lettuce be pre- 
ferred to celery, do not put the lettuce 
in till the last moment. When on the 
table, mix thoroughly as served. Hood's 
Sarsaparilla purifies the blood. 

French Salad I>ressing. 

Mix 1 salt-spoon of pepper with l of 
salt ; add 3 tablespoonfuls of olive oil, 
and 1 even tablespoonful of onion, 
scraped fine ; then 1 tablespoonful of 
vinegar ; when well mixed, pour the 
mixture over your salad and stir all till 
well mingled. Hood's Sarsaparilla forti- 
fies the stomach. 

The merit of a salad is that it ^should 
be cool, fresh, and crisp. For vegeta- 
bles, use only the delicate white stalks 
of celery, the small heart leaves of let- 



tuce, or tenderest stalks and leaves of 
the white cabbage. Keep the vegetable 
portions crisp and fresh, until the time 
for serving, when add the meat. For 
chicken and fish salads, use the Mayon- 
naise dressing. For simple vegetable 
salads, the French dressing is most ap^ 
propriate, using onion rather than garlic. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla cures the most 
distressing cases of dyspepsia. 

Eat and Enjay It. 

" For three years I was a sufferer 
from dyspepsia, there being hardly any- 
thing that I could eat without causing 
me great distress. My husband was con- 
stantly buying different advertised dys- 
pepsia cures, without obtaining perma- 
nent relief. In the fall of 1882 I began 
taking Hood's Sarsaparilla. I took it 
regularly, according to directions, until 
I had taken six bottles. I am most 
happy to say the result was entirely sat- 
isfactory. I can with comfort eat any- 
thing desirable for me to eat and enjoy 
it. I do not know what else Hood's 
Sarsaparilla may l)e good for, but I at- 
tribute the help of my dyspepsia entirely 
to its use. My husband, knowing well 
what I have suffered, and how much 
better I am now, will fully corroborate 
my statement." Mrs. J. S. Bailey. 

Mr. Bailey is the popular keeper of the 
Government Light House on Marble- 
head Neck, Mass. He fully endorses 
what his wife writes. He considers the 
money spent for Hood's Sarsaparilla one 
of the best investments he ever made. 

A Great Benefit. 

Henry Dickson, wholesale grocer, and 
proprietor of Dickson's Opera House, 
Kenton, Ohio, writes: "My wife has 
been troubled with indigestion, and her 
blood has been in a poor condition. 
She has used several bottles, of Hood's 
Sarsaparilla, and it has been a great 
benefit to her." 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is sold by all 
druggists. Price $1 ; six for $5. Pre- 
pared only by C. I. Hood & Co., Apothe- 
caries, Lowell, Mass. 



Moocf/s Sarsaparilla— 100 Doses One Dollar. 



HOOD'S SARSAPARILLA. 



13 



Sauces. 

The two main sauces are the Espagnol 
and the Voleute ; the first is brown, 
and beef its foundation ; the other 
white, and veal its foundation. A 
spoonful of Madeira wine improves it. 

With boiled fish make the sauce Hol- 
landaise. With beefsteak, tomato sauce 
always. With chicken or lobster salad, 
sauce Mayonnaise. 

Mayonnaise Sauce. 

Put the yolk of a raw egg into a cold 
bowl ; beat it well with a silver fork ; 
then add 2 salt spoonfuls of salt and 
1 of mustard (powdered). Work them 
well a minute ; then mix a little good 
olive oil, a few drops at first, alternating 
with a few drops of vinegar. When it 
assumes tjie appearance of jelly, instead 
of the vinegar, alternate with a few drops 
of lemon-juice. When the egg has ab- 
sorbed a gill of oil, finish by adding 
a pinch of cayenne pepper and l>^ tea- 
spoonfuls of good vinegar. Now taste 
and add what appears to be deficient. 

For lobster salad, bruise lobster 
coral, pass through a sieve, and add to 
the above, with a little cayenne pepper 
and another spoonful of mustard. 

For fish (cold boiled), add, Avhen hot, 
any green extract, such as green peas, 
boiled and mashed, or the juice of spin- 
ach pounded, and boil till it thickens. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla sharpens the appe- 
tite and greatly improves the digestion. 

A Hint for the Table. 

Sew a coarse flannel over the bowl of 
a broken goblet. Wet the flannel and 
sprinkle as much flax seed, or canary 
seed, as will stick. Set this in a glass 
dish of water in a warm room ; as the 
water soaks into the flannel, add more. 
In two weeks, you will have a most 
beautiful centre ornament for the table. 
Debility and indigestion are easiest 
corrected by Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Never wash macaroni. The cooking 
water will dissolve everything undesira- 
ble. Hood's Sarsaparilla is purifying. 



Indigestion. 

Distress in the stomach arises from 
overworking that important organ, or 
rather from irregularly feeding it, —too 
little time allowed for food, and too 
close attention to business cares. Per- 
haps improperly cooked food assists and 
often indulgence promotes. This system 
of treatment and attack upon the stom- 
ach results in disorder of its functions; 
a sense of weight and fulness is felt, 
which is rather the deficient energy of 
the coats of the stomach made sensi- 
ble ; the food sours before digestion, 
I)roducing foul breath, nausea, and 
heart-burn, or water-brash. 

THE MAN IS SICK, 

though he does not know it ; or, if 
he knows it, refuses to own it. With- 
out relief by Hood's Sarsaparilla, im- 
perfect digestion follows ; the counte- 
nance assumes a hard and painful ex- 
pression ; the skin looks dry and un- 
wholesome. My friend, beware ! if 
you have got so far, halt ! Think it 
over. Sit down and reason with your- 
self. This state of things should not 
continue. Unnourished you cannot con- 
tinue. You are positively expending 

MORE THAN YOUR IKCOMJE. 

Reform your habits. Assist your disa- 
bled stomach by a mild dose of 
Hood's Sarsaparilla, taken in a little 
water, ten or fifteen minutes before 
eating. Its tonic properties are what 
you require. Its stimulative qualities 
are gentle, though energetic. Try a 
bottle; you will be perfectly satisfied. 

Internal Hunioi\ 

" I have been troubled with internal 
humor several years, causing a burn- 
ing sensation in my stomach, distress 
from my food, and fainting spells. I 
could not sleep nights. Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla has relieved me of my troubles. 
I sleep well now and have no difficulty 
with my food. I take pleasure in cer- 
tifying that Hood's Sarsaparilla certainly 
helped me." Mrs. S. A. Edmunds 
Warner, N. H. 



Hood'.'f Sarsaparilla — Peculiar to Itself. 



14 



UOOU'S (JOOK BOOK 



Mayon/naise Dressing. 

A tablespoonful mustard, 1 cup sugar, 
1-10 teaspoouful cayenne, 1 teaspoonful 
salt, the yolks of 3 uncooked eggs, tht^ 
juice of hz lemon, L\ cup vinegar, 1 pint 
best olive oil, and 1 cupful whipped 
cream. Beat the yolks and dry iugre- 
tUents until light and thick. Place the 
bowl, in which the dressing is made, in 
a pan of ice water during the beating. 
Add only a little of the oil at a time. 
Wlien the dressing becomes so thick 
that the beater turns hard, add a little 
of the \inegar. When the last of the 
oil, and of the vinegar, has been added, 
the dressing should be very thick. 
Now add the lemon juice and whipped 
cream, and place on ice till needed 
for use. The cream may be omitted 
without injurj'. Hood's Sarsaparilla 
has helped thousands ; it will help you. 

Pickled Lettiofis. 

Take 8 lemons, thick skins; 1-2 lb. 
fine salt ; 2 qts. vinegar ; 1-4 oz. each of 
cloves, nutmeg, mace, and cayenne ; 2 
oz. mustard seed ; a small onion. Put 
all this in a muslin bag, the whole to 
be put in a tight, covered jar. Set in 
a kettle of boiling water and let it 
remain till the lemons are tender. It 
is better to keep them three months 
before using. Use Hood's Tooth Powder. 

Spiced Mackevel. 

Twelve fresh mackerel cut in slices, 
1 cup salt, 1 cup sugar, l tablespoonful 
whole cloves, 1 tablespoonful ground 
doves, 1 tablespoonful black pepper. 
A layer of fish, then a layer of the mix- 
lure. I'ut in an earthen pot and cover 
with vinegar. Bake four hours in a. 
moderate oven. Hood's Sarsaparilha 
invigorates the appetite. 



MuMard JP^lckl^. 

One peck green tomatoes, }i as many 
onions, 3 or 4 cauliflowers -, boil until 
tender ; slice, cover with salt, and drain 
over night. Add IH boxes mustard, 2 
or 8 red peppers ; cov&r with vlnegax, 
and simmer all day. 



Yoti/ng Persons 

Who are of somewhat dyspeptic habits, 
weakened by excesses, exhausted by 
care and anxieties, protracted work, 
I watching at night with inadequate 
I sleep, where the nutrition was evi- 
I dently impaired before difQculty of di- 
1 gestion Avas experienced, will flud 
j Hood's Sarsaparilla of very decided 
I effect and value. In cases where 4he 
j stomach is intensely irritable, Hood's 
] Sarsaparilla, from its light dose, is very 
! serviceable. Occasionally it will be 
j found to be the only nourishment the 
stomach will bear kindly. In dys- 
pepsia arising from change of habits, 
where the stomach has long accustome<l 
itself to narcotics, to stimulants, to 
tobacco. Hood's Sarsaparilla is the 
best possible corrective. Old, persons, 
j where the muscular action of the 
1 stomach is very feeble, will flud Hood's 
i Sarsaparilla of great benefit. 

I Since Nine Years OM. 

I "Miss Mary C. Smith, 354 Broadway, 
I Cambridgeport, Mass., was a sufferer 
from dyspepsia and sick headache 
I since she was nine years old. She 
I commenced to take Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla. and writes in delight that she 
j found it the best remedy she ever used, 
:ind rocominends its use to others." 

Within Six WeeTcs. 

I "At Abington, Mass., I dined with a 

! lady, who informed me that she could 

! not eat without distress. I advised 

! her to use Hood's Sarsaparilla, prom- 

I ising to pay for it if she was not sat- 

' isfied. Six weeks thereafter, I saw 

her again. She had taken my advice 

and Hood's Sarsaparilla, and could eat 

a hearty meal without discomfort. She 

was the happiest woman I ever saw." 

Fifty Dyspeptics Cured. 

" In my business, I have personally 
met with fifty different people — dyspep- 
tics— cured by Hood's Sarsaparilla." 
J. M. Raymond, Travelling Merchant. 
Best spring tonic. Hood's Sarsaparilla. 



Hood's Sarsiiparilla—lOO Doses One Dollar. 



HOOD'S SARSAPARILLA 



15 



J>rayu?n JfMtter. 

Djfawn Butter, sometimes absurdly 
called Melted Butter, as the foundation of 
many excoDent sauces, requires care In 
its preparation. It is siuiple, agreeable; 
<^amiot be made of flour and water ; 
but use only sufficient butter to cook 
tbe flour well. A squeeze of a fresh 
lemon improves it for some. Cook in 
the thickest of saucepans and stir with 
womleu spoons only. It should be pre- 
pared within L'O minutes of being 
served. If, from waiting, it becomes 
decomposed, simply add a little clear, 
cold water in the winter, or a spoonful 
of ice in the summer, and work the 
sauce briskly, with a spoon, when tbe 
oily appearance will disapi)ear. 

Put 2 oz. butter mto a stew-pan. and, 
when it bubbles, sprinkle in an oz. of 
tk)ur ; stir well with a wire whisk (egg- 
heater), until the fliour is thoroughly 
crooked, without coloring (about 20 min- 
ut^is), then mix in a ^4 i)int water, 
or stock, stirring quickly. Take it off 
the tire, pass through a strainer, and 
stir in another oz. butter, cut in pieces. 
If It appears oily, add, now and then, 
a spoonful of w-ater, or a small lump of 
ice. This makes a pint of sauce. If de- 
sired to be slightly acid, add a few 
drops of lemon juice, or good vinegar. 
Hood's .Sarsaparilla re-creates an appe- 
tite, and Invigorates the entire system. 

Drawn Butter' for Fish. 

Proceed, as dii-ected above, till you 
t^'ike it from the fire ; then stir in 
gradually the beaten yolks of foiireggs; 
return the sauce to the tire for aminule 
to set the eggs, without allowing it 
to boil ; again take froin the fire and 
stir in the juice of half a h'lnon and 
fresh butter the size of a walnut, cut 
into small bits. Stir smartly with a 
whisk til] well melted. When you feel 
weak and debilitated in the spring, you 
should take Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Hood'fe Sarsaparilla is prepared only 
by C. I. Hood & Co., Apothecaries, 
Lowell, Mass. Price $1 a bottle, -or six 
for $5. Sold by all druggists. 



Bolls. 

The worst feature about boils rs that 

they have successors, and not one only, 

but often a dozen or two. The only 

^ reasonable course to adopt is to 

; purify tbe blood. The pure-blooded 

I have no boils. To purify, cleanse, and 

I strain the blood. Hood's Sarsaparilla is 

! the best medicine wthin reach. Begin 

j ^vith half teaspoonful, three times 

a day, till an impression is wuule upon 

I the system. You may not cure the 

i first boil, or the second, but you will 

j cut oft' the succession, and by keeping 

I the blood in pure condition, you will 

j not be again troubled with boils. Some 

j people advise frequent poulticing of a 

boil, in addition to the caution to avoid 

i taking cold, and to keep from irri- 

i tating the sore place. But all the 

' benefit to be derived from the poultice 

i rests in the softening of the skin. 

! through which the boil is forcing, or 

I has forced, its way. If an opiate uv 

narcotic be mingled with the poultice. 

it can onl*' operate as an anodyne, to 

deaden the sensibility of the contiguous 

nerves, that you may not be consciotis 

1 of so much |)ain. 

I 

Retired BMsltiess Man. 

The following is the testimony of Mr. 

; George W. Trump, a retired business 

i man of Canton, Ohio, and well known all 

\ through the section in which \\v. lives. 

I Mr. Trump writes: "I have been suffer- 

1 ing Avith <lisorder of the bloo<l, and with 

; boils breaking out on my body, which 

caused me a great deal of annoyance. I 

took one bottle of Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

and am glad to say am entirely well." 

Vo Appetite. 

••About a year ago 1 <-.onnnenced 
taking Ho<td's Sarsaparilla. I was run 

, down, bad no appetite, my food would 
not digest, and I was troubled with 
nervous debility. After taking tbe lirst 
bottle T comm(^nc.ed to feel the eftects 
of it at once. 1 have now taken four 

j bottles, and can say I feel like a new 
man." J. H. MoCall, Rochester, N. Y. 



JToocViit Sarsaparilla — Peculiar fn Tt}iefJ\ 



16 



HOOD'S COOK BOOK 



Toast. 

Not too fresh bread, nov yet too 
stale; cut in thin, even slices, removing 
the crusts. Warm each side of the 
slices hefore commencing to toast. 
Now gently move one side, at some 
little distance from the coals, till it 
receives evenly a golden hromi, then 
reverse it and color the other with the 
same motion. Serve the moment it is 
done. Hood's Sapsaparilla, the great 
blood purifier, tonic, and invigorant. 
This is the season to take it. 
JLemon Pie. 

Moisten a heaping tablespoonful of } 
corn starch with a little cold water, then I 
add a cupful of boiling water; stir over j 
the fire till it boils and cooks the corn | 
starch, say 2 or .•? minutes ; add a tea- 
spoonful of butter and a cupful of 
sugar ; take off the tire, and, when 
slightly cooled, add an egg well beaten 
and the juice and gra.ted rind of a, 
fresh lemon. Bake witJi a crust. This 
makes one pie. Hood's Sarsaparilla 
possesses real merit ; does positive good. 
Fltte-Appl^ Pie. 

A pine-apple; its weight in sugar; 
half its weight in butter; t cupful of 
cream ; 5 eggs ; beat the butter to a 
creamy froth; add the sugar and yolks 
of the eggs ; continue beating till very 
light; add the cream, the pine-apple 
grated, and the wliites of the eggs 
beaten to a stiff fi'oth. Bake with an 
under crust. Eat cold. After diphthe- 
ria, take HochI's Sarsaparilla to stamp 
out the last tract? of blood-poison. 

Chiclcen PUluu. 

One pint cold boiled rice ; 1 boiled 
chicken, the meat chopped fine ; 1 can 
of tomatoes, strained ; let the liquor, in 
which the chicken is boiled, jell ; piece 
of butter size of an egg ; salt and pep- 
per to taste. Mix all together and 
sex-ve very hot. Use Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is prepared only 
by C. I. Hood & Co.. Apothecaiies. 
Lowell, Mass. Price $1, or six bottles 
for $5. Sold by all druggists. 



Kidney Disease. 

Every full draught of water, or any 
liquid : in fact, distends the kidneys ; 
but, as the nerves of sensation there 
are so few, and the membraneous sac 
covering these organs is so elastic, the 
pain is very slight ; indeed, violent 
vomiting is a surer indication than 
fever or pain. Still, there is often a 
renal catarrh, owing to the blood pres- 
sure in the artery which feeds the 
kidneys. In such cases, Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla acts specifically, and especially 
where the trouble has origin in diuret- 
ics, gin, tar, or sulphur salves, blisters, 
and other irritants to the skin. A dose 
of Hood's Sarsaparilla, shortly before 
eating, with free indwlgence in water 
as the thirst craves, will cause the 
attack to terminate in restoration of 
the kidneys to a healthy action. 

In the progress of scarlet fever, 
disease may set in on the kidneys, so 
that when convalescence should pro- 
ceed, tlie patient still suffers severely 
and does not get up well. Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla is excellent for this form of 
catarrh, which many regard as but an 
early admonition of Bright's disease ; 
Vf not relieved, the disease passes 
rapidly to dropsy. Even then, relief 
may be obtained by use of Hood's Sar- 
saparilla, though the recovery will not 
be so rapid. The attack may last 
a week. If any medicine ever deserved 
the name of a specific. Hood's Sarsa^ 
parilla does, a.s a remedy for disease 
of the kidneys, in the early stage. 

Hopeless, but Cured. 

"Four years ago last Februai-y, after 
enduring painful oppression in my 
back, I coimnenced taking Hood's Sar- 
saparilla for kidney complaint, which 
had troubled me about a year. My 
case was considered hopeless, as I 
passed blood for many weeks. Two 
bottles of Hood's Sars^arilla cured 
me, and I am now well. I am a far- 
mer, and ever since recovery I have 
been able to do all kinds of hard work." 
A. Felton, Tunbridge, Vt. 



//horZ'.v Sarsaparilla — 700 Dosr.^ One Dollar. 



HOOD'S SARSAPARTLLA. 



17 



JPrtttie Pie. 

Wash the prunes thoroughly. Soak 
over night in water enough to cover 
theuL In the morning, stew slowly in 
same water. Add 2 tahlespoonfuls of 
sugar to each pie. Eemove stones and 
bake with two crusts. Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla— 100 Doses One Dollar, Can he 
obtained of all druggists. 

Chess Pie. 

For 2 pies: 5 eggs; K of a cup of 
butter; 1 cupful of sugar; flavor to suit. 
Beat the yolks and sugar together till 
the froth is perfect. Beat the butter to 
a creamy froth, unite them quickly 
with the desii-ed flavor. Bake in a 
crust. It will rise very light. As soon 
as done, have ready a stiff froth of the 
whites of the eggs sweeteufnl and fla- 
vored. Spread this over the top and 
return to the oven t-o color delicately. 
Cut and lay on plates before cooling. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla sharpens the appe- 
tite and improves the digestive organs. 

Apple Pie. 

Make a good thick pie, seasoning with 
cinnamon or nutmeg, and a little but- 
ter. NO sugar. Make a small opening 
in the centre of the upper crust. Bake 
until thoroughly done. Cook 1 cup or 
l>2 cups sugar, according to the sour- 
ness of the apples, tUl it becomes a 
syrup, adding water, jis necessary-, lest 
it be too thick. When the pie is done, 
but still hot, pour the syrup carefully 
tJirough the opening in tJie crust. 
One hundred doses Hood's SarsapariUa 
one dollar ; it is an Invaluable spring 
medicine, toning up the system, and 
quickening and purifying the blood. 

Apple Croutes. 

Peel and core tlie apples, halve them 
equatorially. Take haLf slices of bread, 
spread thickly Avlth butter, sprinkle 
\vith sugar, lay M apples on bread, 
core down, sprinkle on more sugar 
.'ind any kind of spice preferred. Bake. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla cures biliousness, 
and regulates the digestive organs. 



A Private Statement. 

Tlie attention of tlie reader calletl 
to Hood's Sarsaparilla, by the printed 
publications in the newspapers of tlie 
day, may occasionally effect the sale of 
a single bottle. But such are the pos- 
itive medicinal qualities concentrated 
in Hood's Sarsaparilla, that its use 
results in the successful restoration 
of the sick to health. It is the fame 
of these cures, spread abroad in a com- 
mmiit>', and their proof, which have 
produced and maintained the greatest 
success ever bestowed upon a propri- 
etary medicine. The sick are eager to 
get well. Few can afford to be sick, 
and none are willing, where they can 
be restored to health, promptly, for a 
dollar, the pric« of one bottle of 
Hood's Sarsaparflla. 

We receive many letters like the 
following, which is genuine and on 
file at the office of Hood's Sarsaparilla, 
in Lowell, Mass.:— - 

'' Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co. Gentle- 
men : For over two years I suffered 
with a complication of diseases, till 
this summer found me a confirmed 
invalid, — blood poor, appetite gone, 
bowels out of order, and I was mis- 
erable in mind and body. I read of 
such wonderful cures performed by 
Hood's Sarsaparilla that, at last, I 
thought I would tr>' a bottle, as, if it 
didn't make me better, it oou'.d not make 
me worse. It did make uie better, and 
now I am on my third bottle. I find 
myself almost a new woman. 

" I do not want this communication 
published, but I wUl gladly make a 
private statement to any lady, and con- 
vince her, as I have proved to my- 
self, that purifying and enriching the 
blood, which Hood's Sarsaparilla does 
to perfection, is the best constitutional 
treatment, and, in many cases, does 
away with all local treatment in tJio 
many diseases with which women are 
afflicted. Yours truly, ." 

The address of this lady will be 
given to any one desiring an interview. 



HoocVs Sarsaparilla— Peculiar to Itself. 



18 



HOOD'S CWOR BOOK. 



Balced Apple I^tdding. 

Fill a 3-quart earthen dish with pared 
and quartered apples. Sprinkle on 
these 1 cupful sugar, a. little cinnamon, 
J tablespoonful butter, imt^ hz cupful 
of wat«r. (3over, and hake 30 minutes. 
Make liaUf the rule for chopped paste. 
ItoU a piece of the paste jnto a strip 
about 2 inches wide, that wUl reach 
iiroond the pudding dish. Roll the re- 
mainder t^ cover the dish. Take the 
pudding dish from the oven, slip the 
strip of paste between the apple and 
the dish, and put on the top crust. 
Return to the oven and bake another 
hour. Serve with a cream sauce. See 
a nice one in Hood's Cook Book No. 
Two, page 8. Enrich your blood with 
Hood's Sarsaparilla. the blood purifier. 

Coeoa/tiut PuAdi/nn. 

Dissolve a scant cupful of sugar in 
almost a pint of rich milk and place on 
five tire ; dissolve in the remainder of 
the pint of milk 2 tablespoonfuls of corn 
starch. When tbe sugared milk begins 
to boil, add the starch. Stir constantly 
till it becomes a smooth paste ; then 
a<ld, still stirring, tlie whites of 3 or 4 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. When the 
eggs are cooked, flavor with vanilla, or 
add half a fresh cocoanut grated. Put 
in a mould. Eat With whipped cream. 
Ap])etite, flesh, color, strength, and 
vigor arc restored by Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla. 100 Doses One Dolhir. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

Take >s the above when made, first 
rtavoruig the whole with vanilla. In a 
kettle add a bar of chocolate, softened, 
mushed, and dissolved in a little milk, 
to the %. Put lialf in the bottom of a 
mould, still wet with cold water. Smooth 
the top and add a third of the white 
vnidcUng; smooth it and add the remain- 
der of the chocolate pudding. Divide 
in other proportions if you please. 
Serve in the whipped cream, or a boiled 
custard, made of the yolks of the eggs 
and flavored. Hood's Sarsaparilla pro- 
motes digestion, and tones the system. 



Cata/rrhM 

Catarrh in the head Is mor© previir 
lent than many are aware of. Besides 
the imcomfortable and disgusting flow 
from the nose, there are ringing and 
bursting noises in the ears, pain on 
the to}) of the head, an offensive 
breath, with inflammation and swelling 
of the soft parts of the mouth and 
throat. Severe nervous prostration fol- 
lows, with a miserable, tired feeling 
generally. How readily relief from 
catarrh may be obtained by the use 
of Hood's Sarsaparilla, is shovra by 
the following letters. They prove that 
Hood's Sarsaparilla, acting through the 
blood, effects a permanent cure of this 
almost universal disease. 

"For many years, begimiing so far 

back I don't remember when, I had 

the catarrh in my head. It consisted 

of an excessive flow from my nose, 

ringmg and bursting noises in my 

ears, and pains on the top of my head. 

The hawking and spitting were most 

excessive in the morning, when the 

baek part of my mouth would be 

swollen and i>uffed ; my tongue would 

be thick with a white fur, and there 

would be a bad taste in my mouth. 

Sometimes the hearing in my left ear 

was affected. Five years ago, about 

this season of the year, I began to 

use Hood's Sarsaparilla, I was helped 

right away ; but I continued to use it 

I till T ;felt myself cured. My general 

i health has been good ever since the 

I cat^arrh left me." Mrs. E. H. Caul- 

I FIELD, Lowell, Mass. 

I " Having been a sufferer from catarrh 

I for six or eight years, and having tried 

I nejirly all the wonderful cures, sure 

[ cures, inhalers, etc., etc. and spend- 

! ing nearly a. hundred dollars without 

benefit, I accidentally tried Hood's Sar- 

I saparilla. The discharge from my nose 

was greatly increased the first bottle ; 

then it gradually became less, and jj] 

taking less than three bottles I find 

myself greatly improved." M. A. Abbey 

Worcester, Mass. 



HoorPff Sarmparilla—WO Doses One Dollar. 



HOOU'S SAliSAJ:*AHlLLA 



19 



NcuntucTcet Berry Ihtdding. 

Wet with niilk (or water) l pint of 
grated cold potatoes, 1 pint of flour, 3^ 
of a pound of butter, a tea spoonful of 
salt, to the consistency of soft biscuit- 
dough; roll it; sprea<:l with any berries, 
even dried ones, or Zante cm-rants. 
Roll again and fasten in a cloth. 
Steam an hour and a quarter. Eat 
with any sweet sauce. To get rid of 
that extreme tired feeUng, use Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. 100 Doses One Dollar. 

Rice JPuddifig. 

One large coffee cup cooked rice, 1 
large cup milk. Put into a double 
boiler ; when hot, add 2 tablespoonfuls 
sugar, a little nutmeg and cinnamon. 
Beat the yolks of 2 eggs very light, and 
add to the rice, stirring thoroughly. 
Then pour into a buttered nappy. Beat 
the whites of 2 eggs to a stiff froth, add 
2 tablespoonfuls sugar and }-i teaspoon- 
ful vanilla. Spread over the rice and 
brown in an oven. Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Banana JPuddinif. 

Cut sponge cake in slices, and, in a 
glass dish, put alternately a layer of 
cake and a layer of bananas sliced. 
Make a soft custard, flavor with a 
little wiue, and pour over it. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and 
heap over the whole. Biliousness is 
corrected by Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

I>i8tve8s in tlie Stomach. 

As a rule, persons who grow fat and 
remain so under good living, are 
healthier than those who do not. The 
latter usually become ultimately feeble, 
pale, and thin, as if they sustained a 
severe and grave affliction. We can- 
not promise that every lean dyspeptic 
shall grow fat under the influence of 
Hood's Sarsaparilla, but we know that 
many have increased their weight while 
taking it, and the improvement of the 
appetite and of the low-spirited show 
that the happiest results have been 
experienced where Hood's Sarsaparilla 
w-as taken In moderate doses. 



Cofiaum/pHon. 

Certainly one out of every seven, 
often one out of every five, of all 
deaths result from consumption. In 
nearly one half, dissection detects the 
presence of the nutritive disorders from 
which consumption pro(^eeds. ajid these 
are scrofulous. From this miiy be seen 
why Hood's Sarsaparilla arrests con- 
sumptiou. If taken in season. Hood's 
Sarsaparilla purifies the blood, and 
acts as a specific upon the scrofulous 
taint and corruption. That corrected, 
and blood, in a pure state, supplie<l to 
the lungs and other vital organs, 
growth proceeds rather than decay, and 
the consumption is no more. Consump- 
tion itself is never birth-born, but 
springs from scrofulous conditions of 
the blood. Hence, consumption may 
be prevented, and in its early stages, 
be cured by Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

As a tonic, from its intrinsic qualities, 
and as a purifier of the blood, specifi- 
cally, Hood's Sarsaparilla enables the 
patient to contend for life under the 
most favorable conditions. We hesitate 
to excite the hopes that can delude, 
but so large benefit has been derived 
from the use of Hood's Sarsaparilla 
by consumptives, that we urge the im- 
portance of a fair and impartial trial. 

Scrofula Cured. 

"I wfis severely afliicted with scrof- 
ula, and for over a year had two run- 
ning sores on my neck. After ti-ying 
several remedies without i)ermanent 
relief, I began taking Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla, and soon felt the good eftects 
of it. I took only five bottles, and 
consider myself entirely cured, as the 
soresj have healed, and I am not 
troubled with the humor in any fonn." 
C. E. LovEJOY, l^owell, Mass. 

Sioc Years' Cough Cured. 

" I used three bottles of Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla and it did me lots of good. I ha<l 
been coughing for six years, and now I 
do not cough at all, unless I take cold." 
A. Martin, Lawrence, Mass. 



Mood's Sarsaparilla — Peculiar to Itself. 



20 



HOOD'S COOK BOOK. 



Lemon Custard. 

Take the yolks of 4 eggs and the 
whites of 2, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup cold 
water, butter K the size of an egg, l 
tablespoonful of corn starch, rubbed 
smooth In a little cold water; the grated 
peel of a large lemon, and the juice. 
Beat all together. Bake in custard cups, 
leaving a space at the top. Whip the 
whites of the other 2 eggs, adding 3 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 
Wlien the custard is done, take from 
the oven, All the top space with the 
whipped egg, spread on smoothly. Ee- 
tum to the oven till a delicate brown. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla purifies the blood. 

Eclairs. 

Put 1 cupful of boiling water and K 
cupful of butter in a large saucepan. 
When it boils up, turn in 1 pint flour. 
Beat well with the vegetable masher. 
When perfectly smooth, remove from 
the fire. Break 5 eggs into a bowl. 
Wlien the paste is nearly cold, beat 
the eggs into it with the hand. Only a 
small part of the eggs should be added 
at a time. When the mixture is thor- 
oughly beaten, spread, on buttered 
sheets, in oblong pieces, about 4 inches 
long and IK wide. Place about 2 inches 
apart. Bake, in rather a quick oven, 
for about 25 minutes. As soon as they 
are done, ice with frosting made of 
the whites of two eggs and IX cup- 
fuls of powdered sugar. Flavor with a 
teaspoonful of vanilla. When the icing 
is cold, cut the eclairs on one side, 
and fill them. 

FrLLiNG. — Put 1)4 cups milk in the 
double boiler. Beat together % cupful 
sugar, 3i cupful of flour, stir the mix- 
ture into the boiling milk. Cook 15 
minutes, stirring often. 

A chocolate icing may be made by 
putting 2 squares of scraped chocolate 
with 5 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar 
and 3 of boiling water. Stir over the 
fire until smooth and glossy. Dip the 
top of the eclairs into this, as they 
come from the oven. Comfort the aged 
with Hood's Sarsaparilla. 



Saved a Boy's Life. 

"My son's trouble began with a sore 
at his ankle ; soon he had twelve sores 
below his knee. Pieces of bone came 
from all his sores, and one piece wa-s 
five and a half inches long by half 
an inch toide. The boy went on crutches 
three years. Hood's Sarsaparilla saved 
my boy's life. 

THE SORES BEGAN TO HEAL 

while taking the third bottle. About 
a year from the time he began 
taking Hood's Sarsaparilla he threw 
away his crutches and walked a mile 
to school. The neighbors thought he 
would never walk again. This is all 
strictly true." Henry T. Curtis, 
Frankfort, Me. 

The Above Cure Corroborated. 

'• I am personally acquainted with INIr. 
Henry T. Curtis, and assure the public 
that the facts in regard to his boy's 
sickness are not exaggerated in liis 
letter. I also know that he was saved 
by Hood's Sarsaparilla; and from my 
knowledge of the excellence of this 
medicine, I can cheerfully recom- 
mend it." Jacob G. Favor, Deputy 
Marshal, Lowell, Mass. 

Humors in tlie Blood. 

You cannot expect to eradicate pim- 
ples, blotches, and other manifestations 
of humors in your blood till you have 
taken enough Hood's Sarsaparilla to 
produce an impression upon your con- 
stitution. Cured by Hood's Sarsaparilla, 
the poison is expelled from the system, 
and the pimples cannot return. 

A Fins Preparation. 

A leading wholesale druggist in Con- 
necticut, who is probably the largest, 
says : " I speak a good word for Hood's 
Sarsaparilla, as I believe it to be a very 
fine preparation." Many others also 
testify to its positive merit. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is prepared only 
by C. I. Hood & Co., Apothecaries, 
Lowell, Mass. Price $1 a bottle, six 
for $5. Sold by druggists. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla— 100 Doses One Dollar. 



HOOD'S SARSAPAJtILLA. 



21 



Boiled Custard. 

Beat the yolks of 5 eggs and 5 dessert 
spoonfuls of sugar to a froth, and stir 
into a quart of boiled milk. Put into a 
custard boiler, or a small tin pail. 
Place this in a kettle of boiling water, 
stirring constantly till thickening com- 
mences. If it be well stirred, the cus- 
tard will be a smooth cream ; but not 
otherwise. Add flavors after it is 
cooked; except a vanilla bean, or peach 
lejives, which cook with the custard. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla is peculiar to itself. 

Cottage Cheese. 

Place a pan of clabbered sour milk 
over the Are ; scald well ; pour into a 
clean cloth ; squeeze out all the water. 
The clabber will be quite dry. Put this 
into a basin, and work it with the 
hands, moistening with a little cream, 
a little butter, and plenty of salt. Mould 
into little balls. Purify your blood 
with Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Ba vanian C ream. 

Whip a pint of cold cream to a frotli, 
which will lie on a sieve. Boil another 
pint of cream, or rich milk, with a va- 
nilla bean and 2 tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, until it is well-flavored. Remove 
it and add half a box of gelatine, which 
has soaked an hour in half a cupful 
of water in a warm place. Wlien 
slightly cooled stir in the well-beaten 
yolks of 4 eggs. When it has become 
quite cold and begins to thicken, stir 
without cessation until it is very 
smooth. Then stir in the whipped 
cream lightly until well mixed. Place 
in moulds and set on ice, or in a cool 
spot. To this you can add almonds, 
chocolate, peaches, pine apples, straw- 
bei-ries, or any seasonable fruit. To 
enrich the blood, use Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla. It is the best and most reliable 
spring medicine in the world. 

Strawberry Saxice. 

One cup sugar, >^ cup] butter. Beat 
them well together and add a cupful 
of strawberries, well mashed. Hood's 
Sarsaparilla brightens the complexion. 



RJieiintatism. 

The most reliable symptom of nms- 
cular rheumatism is the stretching or 
tearing pain accompanying it, which is 
worse as evening approaches, and dis- 
appears in the morning. Its usual seat 
is the back or shoulders. At times the 
stomach is very painful after coughing 
fits. If lower down the back, when it 
is called lumbago, it is noted for its se- 
verity and frequency. Often the suf- 
ferer cannot move the lower portion of 
the back without contortions of the 
face,^ outcries, and attempts to favor 
the location affected, by most ludi- 
crous and peculiar attitudes. Tlieir 
condition is often as amusing as pitiful. 

Acute rheumatism, chronic rheuma- 
tism, muscular rheumatism, rheumatism 
of the joints, and rheumatic gout, are 
different phases of the inflammation, 
or congestion of the deep-seated 
fibrous tissues ; a result of the impu- 
rity or poverty of the blood. 

Whatever the form and cause, relief 
can always be found in Hood's Sar- 
saparilla, the great blood purifier. 

Whole Systetvi Benefited. 

"I have been troubled at times with 
rheumatism, the cause of which I tlimk 
I must attribute to a want of proper 
action of my liver. Among other things, 
I had pain and great soreness in my 
left side. At night I could seldom lay 
on that side. Last spring I took 
Hood's Sarsaparilla regularly, accord- 
ing to directions, with an occasional 
dose of Hood's Pills, until I used seven 
bottles ; It did me a great deal of 
good. My general health has been 
good through the summer, and I have 
had but little trouble from rheumatism. 
My side does not pain me, and indeed 
I think I sleep now more on my left 
side than on my right. I think it did 
my whole system good." Mks. E. A. 
Nichols, Boston, Mass. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is prepared only 
by C. I. Hood & Co., Apothecaries, 
Lowell, Mass. Price $1, six for $5. 
Sold by druggists. A penny a dose. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla — Peculiar to Itself. 



tl 



HOOD' IS COOK BOOK 



Cream, Sauce. 

To make a bowlful, take a piece of 
butter, size of a small egg, and beat it 
with % cup powdered sugar until it is a 
light cream. Put 1 coffee cup full of 
water in a small tin saucepan, and add 
1 teaspoonful of flour rubbed in a little 
cold water ; cook till it is like a thin 
starch. Pour it slowly into the creamed 
butter. If the beating be not stopped, 
the whole sauce will x'ise and be foamy 
as sea-froth. Flavor to liking. As a 
blood purifier. Hood's Sarsaparilla is 
unequalled by anything in the market. 

ANOTHER. 

One cupful powdered sugar, 1 egg, 2 
cupf uls whipped cream. Beat the white 
of the egg to a stiff froth. Add the 
yolk and sugar and beat well. Flavor 
with vanilla, lemon, or wine, and add 
the cream last. Hood's Sarsaparilla ex- 
pels all cutaneous disorders and impuri- 
ties of the blood. Try it this spring. 

A Cheap, JPlai^i Satice. 

Into o>2 cups of water, stir a paste 
made of a tablespoonful of corn starch , 
or flour (rubbed smooth with a little 
cold water) ; add a cupful of sugar and 
the yellow rind of a lemou and a bit of 
stick cinnamon. Gook well for 2 or .t 
minutes. Take from the fire and add 
the butter ; also the flavor, if other 
than lemou be use<l. Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla is the best blood purifier. 

Sabyllon. 

Beat 2 yolks and 1 whole egg a few 
minutes with a scant >^ teacupful of 
sugar in a small stew-pan. Place the 
saucepan into another containing boil- 
ing water over a fire. Beat briskly 
with a whisk while you pour in grad- 
ually a scant >2 teacup of sherry. 
When the egg begins to thicken, re- 
move and add the juice of M of a 
lemon. An excellent pudding-sauce. 

As a positive cure for any of the 
numerous ailments which arise from 
an impure state or low condition of the 
blood. Hood's Sarsaparilla is pre-emi- 
nently superior to all other preparations. 



I Gone in Two Months, 

Capt. Forrest H. Mitchell, master 
of the barque AntoLne Sala, in the New 
York and Havana trade, was brought 
in May, 1882, to his home. No. 791 Mon- 
roe Street, BrooklJ^l, entirely helpless 
with rheimiatism. He was immediately 
placed under the care of a physician, a 
skilful man, who, apprehending that' 
I Captain ivtitchell's rheumatism was 
j complicated with malaria, advised his 
removal to the country. He went to 
the Catskill Mountains, accomi^anied by 
his wife. After tAvo months* faithful 
j doctoring, he felt that he was not get- 
j ting along as fast as he desired, and 
I that his medicine did not helj> him a,s 
much as he expected. At his wife's 
I request. Captain Mitchell made trial of 
! Hood's Sarsaparilla, as no permanent 
' benefit was yet received. He conunenced 
' to improve right away under the influ- 
[ ence of Hood's Sarsaparilla. and was 
; soon able to return to Brooklyn. In 
j two months from the time he began to 
j take Hood's Sarsaparilla his rheuma- 
I tism was gone, and he sailed in com- 
j mand of his vessel a well man, Jaking 
j with him Hood's Sarsaparilla. 
I In communicating these facts, his 
j wife MTites : "My husbau<l is 48 years 
! of age, and his health is now better 
i than it has been for some time, he 
j having gained several pomids in 
I weight. He took Hood's Sarsaparilla 
Avith lilrn on the voyage, so as to make 
the cure a sure one. If any wish to 
inquire more particularly of my hus- 
l)and's case, they can address Mrs. 
M. L. Mitcheli.. Brooklyn, N. Y." 

Said one of the leading retail druggists 
in Boston: " Let me tell you why I believe 
the sale of Hood's Sarsaparilla will 
continue to increase. I have sold 
dozens of it, and all speak well of It. 
I have never heard a word of complaint 
of Hood's Sarsaparilla." 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is prepared only 
by C. I. Hood & Co., Apothecaries, 
Lowell. Mass. Price $1, six for $6. 
Sold by druggists. The only medicine 
which gives 100 doses for one dollar. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla — 100 Doses One Dollar. 



HOOD'S SARSAPARILLA 



23 



Wttve tTeUy. 

One box gelatine, }4 pint cold water. 
i>5 pints boiling water, l pint sherry, l 
pint sugar, tlie juice of 1 lemon. Soalt 
tbe gelatine 2 hours in the cold 
water, then pour in tlie boiling water 
and stir imtll dissolved. Add the lemon 
juice, sugar, ;ind wine. Straiii throngli 
a napkin, turn into moulds, and when 
cold plac<) in ah ice chest for (> or 8 
hoiu-s. One good waj' t^ mould this jelly 
is to ]tour some of it into the mould, 
harden it ;i little. ])ut in a layer of 
strawberries, pour in jelly to set them. 
After they have set, another layer of 
jelly, then another of berries, and so 
fill each mould, alternating with jelly 
aud berries. Hood's Sarsaparilla is the 
strongest, the purest, tljie most eftieient 
blood purifier and invigorant known. 

Ijenuyn Jelly. 

Cut «; bananas lengthwise. Slice f. 
oranges. Dissolve a little more than 
>2 box of gelatine in % pint of cold 
water ; then add }^ pint of boiling wa- 
ter, the juice of 3 lemons, and sweeten 
to taste. In any vegetable dish, place a 
layer of the cut bananas ; then a layer 
of the sliced oranges ; sprinkle a little 
sugar over them ; fill the dish in this 
order. When the gelatine has cooled 
a little, pour it over the bananas and 
oranges, and serve. Correct impurities 
of the blood by Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Macedoln^s. 

Suspend in the centre of the jelly mould 
:i bunch of grapes, cherries, berries, 
« r currants on their stems, sections of 
oranges, pine-apples, or brandied fruits, 
rnid pouT in a little jelly when quite 
<old, but not set. It makes a very 
agreeable effect. By a little ingenuity, 
you can imbed first one fruit and then 
another, arranging in circles, and pour 
a little jelly successively over each. 
Do not re-heat the jelly, but keep it in 
a warm place, Avhile the mould is on ice 
and the first layers are hardening. All 
druggists keep Hood's Sarsaparilla, the 
blood purifier. 100 Doses One Dollar. 



A Remedy NeedftU. 

Serious cutaneous eruptions and 
other manifestations of scrofula follow 
vaccination, in some cases to the im- 
pairment of health. These appearances 
are due to the debilitating Influence of 
the fever accompanjing vaecination, 
for which Hood's Sarsaparilla is an ex- 
cellent remedy, as also for the erup- 
tion which follows piercing of the ears, 
weaning, teething, etc. It is wisdom to 
avoid vaccination of the weakly child, 
lialile to be scrofulous, mitil after the 
second or third year, or until the teeth 
are all through ihe gums. So. in wean- 
ing and piercing the ears, give the 
scrofulous cliild more consideration 
! than another, and rather avoid the 
i awakening of latent poison; but, if 
i aroused, administer Hood's Sarsaparilla 
{ in moderate, but regular doses, and 
1 coiitinue until entirely well. 

Sa/ved My Children. 

" Last spring my two children were 
vaccinated. Soon after, they broke aU 
out with running sores^ so dreadful I 
thought I should lose them. Some one 
spoke to me about Hood's Sarsaparilla 
j as a purifier of the bloo<l. I bought a 
l^ottle and gave it to the cldldren. So 
soon as they began to take it they 
began to get better, till it cured them 
completely, and they have remained 
healthy ever since. I do feel that 
Hood's Sarsaparilla saved my ciiildren 
to me." Mks. C. L. Thompson, West 
Warren, Mass. 

After Sco/rlet Fever. 

" Five years ago my little son was 
taken with scarlet fever, in Georgetown, 
Colorado. Three months after the fever 
left him, a. discharge from his ears 
made its appearance, which has con- 
tinued, at intervals, till now. Thanks 
to Hood's Sa,rsaparilla, one of the 
ears has stopped running, and the 
other Is somewhat better. I am an old 
druggist myself, havuag had nearly 
twenty years' experience." James V. 



A. Pboudfoot. Chicago, III. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla — Peculiar to Usel-f^ 



24 



HOOD'S COOK BOOK. 



Cream Fritters. 

Wliile a stick of cinnamon, an inch 
long, is coining to a boil in a pint of 
milk, rub into a smooth paste 2 table- 
spoonfuls of corn starch and 1 of floin- 
in 2 or ;3 spoonfuls of very cold milk. 
When the milk boils stir in >2 cup of 
sugar, follow with* the paste, and stir, 
over the fire, 2 minutes, or till the paste 
is surely cooked. Remove from the 
fire, and stir in the beaten yolks of 3 
eggs, hold over the fire again for a min- | 
ute to set the eggs. Remove from the i 
fire, take out the cinnamon stick, and I 
stir in a piece of butter as large as a ( 
hickory nut, and }2 teaspoonful of va- 
nilla, and pour into a buttered plate 
enough to be H of an inch in depth. 
Let this cool and stiffen ; then cut into 
pieces, 3 inches long by 2 wide. Roll j 
carefully in sifted cracker-criunbs, 
then in slightly beateji and sweetened j 
eggs, then again in cracker-crumbs, j 
Dip in lard, boiling hot, and when yon | 
get a good color, remove and put in a i 
hot oven for 4 or 5 minutes. Then 1 
sprinkle with sugar and serve directly, j 
Hood's SarsapariUa is doing wonders. 

Fritters. | 

Beat 3 eggs well together, add alter- | 
nately flour and jiiilk (salted), till a I 
pint of each be used, beating quickly ' 
all the time. To the above add imme- 
diately a pint of presented fruit and 
drop spoonfuls into boiling hot lard. 
If oysters or clams be used, chop, not 
too fine, about 25, and mix as above. 
So of green corn, ripe or canned ap- 
ples, pears (cored and halved), or stoned 
peaches. When the fritters are done 
and drained, sprinkle sugar over them. 

Waffled. 

Put 1 pint of milk into each of two 
pans. Warm one so as to take off the 
chill, and melt in it y pound of butter. 
Set this aside to cool. Beat 8 fresh 
eggs and mix in the other pan, stirring 
in K pound of flour A\ith salt to taste. 
Then mix the contents of the two 
pans and add a tablespoonful of good 



yeast. Set in a warm place. When 
quite light, have the waffle-irons well 
heated ; butter the iron and fill with 
the batter. But in the fire. When 
<lone to a brown on one side, turn and 
do the other equally brown and crisp. 
Serve hot, six on each plate, buttered 
and sugared to suit. They taste better 
if your blood has been first purified 
by Hood's SarsapariUa, which is sold 
by your druggist. 

After Diphtheria. 

James H. Burgess, North Street, Mid- 
dleboro', Mass., had seven children sick 
with diphtheria, in April, 1880. By 
good doctoring and good nursing, all 
pulled through the alarming state of 
this terrible disease. They came out, 
however, in bad condition. Their sys- 
tems seemed poisoned, througli and 
through, with the pestilent virus. 
They complained of pains, bodily dis- 
tress, and grievous suffering. They 
were afflicted with cramps. Whatever 
remedies he tried, and they were many, 
failed to remove the legacies of the 
diphtheria. A friend of Mr. Burgess 
recommended that he try Hood's Sar- 
sapariUa. He got a bottle. The effects 
were marvellous and surprising. Four 
or five bottles wrought a complete 
cure on the whole seven children. 

IHniples. 

*• For several years past I have been 
troubled with pimples breaking out on 
my face and neck, and it has often 
been a question with me as to what 
I could do to clear them away. Finally 
I was induced to try Hood's Sarsap:i- 
rilla, and after using it a short time 
I was so well pleased with the result 
that I recommended it very highly to 
a nmnber of my friends. I have 
used three bottles, and my skin is 
clearer, and I am feeling a great deal 
better than I have for some time 
past. T can safely recommend it to 
any one in need of an excellent blood 
purifier. R. D. Mockl\bee, 64 Bond 
Street, Cleveland,, Ohio. 



f food's SarsapariUa-^ 100 Doses One Dollar 



IfO OD-S () L T VK O TXTMEKT 



2;) 



To Make Cake. 

To make cake, get all ready before \ 
you begin. Measure and prepare all ! 
the ingredients, and remember to meas- 
ure flour after sifting, and dry at I 
that. Have the tins ready, buttered. | 
and your pastry room free from vis- j 
itors. Wliere soda is used, dissolve i 
in milk, or lukewarm water. In bak- I 
ing. eommenoe slowly, that the batter | 
may be evenly heated through, then 
supply a full heat, and brisk at that. | 

Beat eggs with wire and in an earthen j 
dish till a spoonful will rise free from ! 
strings. Beat the whites, separate 
from the yolks, till very stiff. Beat the 
butter and sugar to a light cream if 
you would have light cake. Add the 
beaten eggs, and last, the flour, beating 
all the while. 

Your cake is baked when a flue splin- 
ter of clean wood will pass through 
without any of the cake adhering — and 
not till then. 

Mrs. Kane's Cake. 

One half cup butter, whites of 4 eggs, 
1 cup sugar, >^ cup milk, 34 teaspoonful 
soda, }z teaspoonful cream tartar, i>^ 
cups flour. Bake in two sheets in a 
moderate oven. Burns are cured by 
Hood's Olive Ointment. 

THE CREAM FOR FILI.ING. 

One c"up powdered sugar, hi cup hot 
water. Let them simmer. Beat white 
of an egg and mix with the above ; 
when cold, add K cup chopped raisins, 
^ cup chopped walnuts, 1 tablespoon 
of grated cocoanut. Flavor with vanilla, j 
Never keep house without Hood's Olive j 
Ointment, the best cure for sprains, etc. | 

THE FROSTING. | 

White of 1 egg, 1 cup powdered sugar, i 

Beat the white to a stiff froth, add the ] 

sugar gradually. Frost the top of the I 
cake ; when stiff, line off in squares or 

diamonds, and ornament each centre ; 

with half of a walnut. Hood's Olive I 

Ointment, 25 cents per box. Sent by j 

mail, on receipt of price, to any address. 1 



Hood's Olive Ointment 

Is a family salve of such power and 
merit that it should be kept constantly 
in tli(^ house. It is clean and pure, 
and lias healing properties which are 
peculiarly beneficial for the rough 
knocks and petty hurts of every-day 
life. It is a positive cure for cuts, 
burns, flesh wounds, inflammation, 
si»rains, chilblains, salt-rheum, chapped 
lips and hands, hard or soft corns, 
frost-bites, sore nipples, and all cuta- 
neous diseases and eruptions. 

Hood's Olive Ointment cures by 
absorption ; it soothes the inflame<l 
membrane ; it allays inflammation ; it 
draws out soreness ; it quiets pain. 
Hood's Olive Ointment is made by C. I. 
Hood & Co., Apothecaries, Lowell, Mass. 

Terribly Burned. 

'• (xeutlemen :— Last Christmas week 
I was severely scalded on the back 
of my neck by the accidental spilling 
of a pint or more of a hot, thin size. 
I was in a stooping posture when I 
received the splash. The scalding fluid, 
bubbling and sticky, ran down under 
my shirt., up into my hair, and shriv- 
elled one of my ears. I was dread- 
fully burned. The pain and torture 
were indescribable. In the removal of 
my cravat and linen collar, the cooked 
skin adhered to them, and came oft" 
in patches, stripping the raw flesh, 
itself half cooked. 

•' Helpless as I was, I directed Hood's 
Olive Ointment to be spread all over 
the burn. It took a large quantity; 
but I was anxious for speedy relief, 
and I was acquainted with the value 
of the ointment. Never was there 
more urgent need for the wonderful 
soothing qualities of the ointment, 
and never did it more signally display 
its excellence. The bandages smearetl 
with Hood's Olive Ointment were re- 
newed from time to time, and through- 
out the whole case I applied nothing else. 
Hood's Olive Ointment was so speedy 
and efficient that the edges of the 
scalded place commenced healing right 



Hood's Olive Ointment— The Best Family Salve. 



26 



HOOJrS VOOK BOOK. 



away. For nine days the suflfering 
tvom the deepest spot was intense, 
and, at times, almost beyond endurance. 

"The healing process kept straight 
on, and in two weeks I was out-of- 
doors. The treatment of my woimd 
with Hood's Olive Ointment was a 
great success. My flesh was restored 
as before, and my skin came back 
smooth and new. There is no scar, 
nor is my neck stiff, as I feared it 
might be. 

"I give this testimonial of my own 
will, for the merits of Hood's Olive 
Ointment are not as well known as I 
think they ought to be, and I hope 
that the knowledge of the great relief 
I derived from Hood's Olive Ointment 
may be the means of extending its 
use." H. C. Brook.s, '] 5 Boott Corpora- 
tion, Lowell, Mass. 

Bluebettnj Cake. 

One cup sugar, 3 eggs, K cup butter, 
melted, l cup milk, 4 cups flour, l>a' 
tea.spoonfuls cream tartar, i teaspoonful 
soda. Beat sugar and eggs together. 
Rub 1 pt. berries in additional flour. 
Bake in l tin. Take Hood's Sarsaparilla, 
the best spring medicine. 

Sa/ratoga Corn Cake. 

We gave this recipe in Hood's Cook 
Book, No, 2, and have ourselves found 
It valuable ; but some friends have not 
had the same success. So far as we 
can learn, the cakes bake excellently 
well in tin, while in an iron pan the 
trial results, eveiy time, in failure. 
With this explanation, we renew the 
recipe, and hope all will find it deli- 
cious and satisfactory : — 

Four eggs, H lb. of sugar, mixed to- 
gether with a wire beater ; melt V lb. 
of butter and add to it l qt. of milk, 
hi oz. of baking soda (dissolved in the 
milk), and a little salt; add it all to the 
first mixture, stir thoroughly; then add 
1 lb. of white com meal, l lb. of flour, 
1 oz. of oream of tartar with which 
mix before adding to the other ingre- 
dients. Bake in tin, in a moderate oven. 



Sa^t-Kheunu 

Mrs. Rachel F. Hathaway, Marblehead, 
Mass., says: "I have been troubled all 
i my life with salt-rheum, and suffered 
! very much fi-om it. At times my very 
< life was despaired of. My whole body 
I seemed filled, aft'ecting my eyes and my 
I hands so much that they were sore and 
j often cracked. I spent a great deal of 
i money doctoring for it, but was not 
: cured. I also tried several preparations 
! of sarsaparilla, but none of them seemed 
j to reach my trouble like the bottle of 
j Hood's Sarsaparilla which I used last 
1 year. It revived and strengthened me 
j so much that I felt almost afraid to 
; take it. It seemed as if I could do my 
I work with almost the vigor of youth. 
I Indeed, I felt like a new person. I was 
( entirely cured by Hood's Sai-saparllla." 

j Bry»lpelas and Salt-Rheum. 

I "I have been a great sufferer from 
' erj'sipelas and salt-rheum, at times so 
I bad that my hands would crack open, 
I the ends of my fingers would bleed and 
( itch terribly; my skin was so dry it 
i would peel off, and it caused me intense 
1 suffering. I have used ointments, salves, 
! and various preparations,— in fact every- 
thing I saw advertised I bought ; but my 
I hands were no better. The trouble was 
j caused by handling tobacco. Seeing 
! Hood's Sarsaparilla advertised, I In- 
1 quired about it, and found several of my 
I friends using it. They induced me to try 
I it, and after taking a bottle and a half, 
I was greatly pleased with the result. 
I have now taken four bottles and am 
entirely well." William Spies, firm of 
Spies & Sage, cigar makers, Elyria, O. . 

'^Oh, What Ha/ppine8S!'f 

" I have been a great sufferer for 
twenty years with the salt-rheum ou 
my hands. Each winter they were 
nearly raw, full of <;racks and chaps, 
so that I could not work. After tak- 
ing one bottle of Hood's Sarsaparilla 
my hands are free ! Oh, what happi- 
ness ! I shall continue to take it In the 
spring." Mrs. A. Hart, Holden, Me. 



Mood's /Sarsaparilla — 100 Doses Chie Dollar. 



HOOD\^ ^ARSAPAItlLLA 



Angel CaTce. 

Wc take great pleasure In furnishing i 

the receipt for making "the cake of the j 

day." By carefully following all Its do- ! 

mils, you will have "good luck" and a. i 

most beautiful cake. AVliites of 31 eggs " 

beaten to a stiff froth ; i measure of j 

sugar, or 9>4 oz. ; l measure of flour, i 

or 5K oz. ; 1 teaspoonful cream tar- ' 

tar, sifted in with the flour ; 1 tea- '• 

spoonful extract vanilla. Don't butter • 

the tin. Bake 40 minutes. Keep a pint i 

dish of hot water iu the oven, while j 

baking. Don't open the oven door for j 

at least 20 minutes after being put in. i 

Avoid jarring the oven wliile the cake j 

i;; baking. When the 40 minutes have ' 

passed, take out the thi, turn it bottom ■ 
side up, and leave the cake to fall out 

itself. New life by Hood's Sarsaparilla. ■ 

P-VX FOB ILVKIXG A>«E1. C.\J£1-:. 

The pan is a tubed pudding pan, ji ' 

mches in diameter on top, 8>4 inches \ 

on bottom ; height, 4'r^ inches. Three i 

legs, equal distances apart, to project i 

IK inches abo\e top of pan and riveted ; 
to the outside. Tube 5>a inches long. 
Use this dish for no other pui'pose, and 

insist on having Hood's Sarsaparilla. i 

Spon.ye Cake. 

One cup sugar, l cup flour, 4 eggs, 1 
even teaspoonful cream tartar, s^ tea- 
spoonful soda, dissolved in 1 table- 
spoonful milk. Sift the flour before 
measuring ; put cream tartar Into flour 
and sift, and a pinch of salt. Beat 
sugar an<l yolks of eggs together ; then 
add the beaten whites, flour, etc. Tliis j 
quantity will make 1 loaf and 8 small i 
cakes. The iulirm need Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla to tone and strengthen the system. | 



Atnbratiia . 

One pine-apple chopped tpiite line, }i 
box of strawberries, G bananas sliced 
and the slices quartered, «'> orjinges 
sUced and the slices quartered, i lemon 
cut fine. Sweeten to taste; add 1 Avine- 
glassl'ul of Sherr>' or Madeira, and set 
away untii very cold. Hood's Sarsa- 
parlUa, lOO JJoaes One Dollai-. 



Scroful<i.. 

No poison is more Airuient, destruc- 
tive, and fatal than scrofula. No med- 
icine is so competent to meet this 
scourge ; none so mild and at the same 
time so powerful, as Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla. If scrofula attacks the breath- 
ing organs, the issue is consumption ; 
if the digestive apparatus, the Issue is 
dyspepsia and debility ; if the muscles, 
the issue is rheumatism ; if the nerves, 
the issue is paralysis ; if the glandular 
system, the isvsue is in bojls, and other 
superficial exhibitions of corruption. 

IT IS A MISTAKJ-: 

to characterize it as unseen. WTiat fes- 
ters your skin on every little abrasion? 
Scrofula. What gives that hack to 
yom- cough on exposure to the slightest 
damp and cold ? Scrofula. T^liat makes 
your food an oppression? Scrofula. 
Wiiat racks and twists the bones and 
sinews, as you grow old ? Scrofula. It 
operates by withholding nutrition and de- 
feating all efforts towards nourishment, 

LIFE BECOMJES A BUKDEX, 

and the victim knows not the blessings 
and happiness of health. It is your duty 
to yourself, your family, and your 
race, to manfully oppose and dislodge 
this demon. How? We can only say, 
that others, who were afflicted as you 
are, have found relief and ciu"e In a 
moderate use of Hood's Sarsaparilla, 
that compound In which the skill of the 
modern ]ihannaclst and the science of 
the most advanced medical knowledge 
unite for the benefit of 

SUFFERING HUMANITY. 

Kead the testimonials* In this book. 
Verify them by correspondence (en- 
close a stamp for reply) with the party 
whose case seems nearest your own. 
If you get encouragement, begin mod- 
erately. Observe the directions. Be 
regular and constant In administration 
of Hood's Sarsaparilla, and you will 
obtain relief. Price §1, or six bottles 
for $5. Prepai-ed only by C. I. Hood & 
Co., Apothecaries, Lowell, Maes. 



flood's SarMtpnriJIn — Prculior to Ttfu^Jf. 



28 



HOOD'S SAJiSAPAllILLA. 



Mi/rtneUaha CaUe. 

Two cups sugar beaten to a cream 
with 1 cup butter ; the whites of 4 eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, and put in the 
last thing ; 3 cups flour and 3 teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder. Bake in layers^ 
put together with 1 boiling hot cup of 
melted sugar, stir in the white of 1 egg, 
beaten stiff, )i teacupful chopped rai- 
sins. Use Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

HicUory Nut CooUles. 

Two cups sugar, 2 eggs, K cupful 
melted butter, 6 tablespoonfuls milk, a 
teaspoonful cream tartar, % teaspoonful 
soda, 1 cup meats of the hickory nut, 
chopped and stirred into the dough. 

Chess CaUes. 

Peel and grate 1 cocoanut ; boil 1 
pound sugar 15 minutes in 2-3 pint 
water ; stir in the grated cocoanut and 
boil 15 minutes longer. While warm, 
stir in }i pound butter ; add yolks of 7 
eggs well beaten. Bake in patty-pans 
with rich paste. If prepared cocoanut 
is used, take IK coffee cupfuls. Hood's 
Sarsaparilla strengthens the weak. 

Fig Calce. 

Cream 1 cup butter ^nd 2 cups sugar 
till very light. Beat the whites of 7 
eggs to a stiff froth. Chop 1 pound 
figs fine, and cook them, until soft and 
smooth, with 1 teacupful water and }i. 
cup sugar. Make a dessert cake, using 
the creamed butter and beaten eggs, 3>2 
cups flour, % cup sweet milk, and 2 tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder. Bake in lay- 
ers, with filling of the fig paste. If 
preferred, use % figs and ji stoned 
raisins for the paste, and soak over 
night in brand|^, wine, or cider. This 
will make a paste which will spread 
Mke a thick custard. You will find 
Hood's Sarsaparilla wortliy of trial. 

Corn Custard. 

Cut corn from the col), mix it Avitli 
milk, not too thin, 2 or 3 eggs, pepper, 
and salt. Bake half an hour. Serve 
as a vegetable. The great blood puri- 
fier is Hood's Sarsaparilla. 



All Hun Doujn. 

"About a year ago I commenced 
taking Hood's Sarsaparilla. I was run 
down, had no appetite, my food would 
not digest, and I was troubled with 
nervous debility-. After taking the first 
bottle, 1 commenced to feel the effects 
of it at once. I have now taken four 
bottles, and can say I feel like a new 
man." J. H. McCall, Rochester, N. Y. 

"My wife was troubled with dizzi- 
ness and constipation, and her blood 
has been in bad order,— in fact, she 
has been all run down. Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla is doing her a wonderfu'. 
amount of good." F. M. Baldwin, 
druggist, Blanchester, Ohio. 

Could Not Sleei). 

" I could not sleep, and would get 
up in the morning \\\ih. hardly life 
enough to get out of bed. I had no 
appetite, and my face would break out 
with pimples. 1 bought a bottle of 
Hood's Sarsaparilla, and soon began to 
sleep soundly ; could get up without 
that tired and languid feeling, and my 
appetite improved." R. A. Sanford, 
Kent, Ohio. 

What the JPresideut Says. 

" I have used Hood's Sarsaparilla for 
some time, and have derived benefit 
therefrom. It gives me an appetite, 
and strengthens the whole system. I 
can cheerfully recommend it to all who 
need a regulator of the bowels, or a 
building up and strengthening medi- 
cine." JosiAH W. Cook, President 
Cambridge Mutual Fire Insurance Com- 
pany, 555 Main Street, corner Norfolk, 
Cambridgeport, Mass. 

Druggist's Ejcperience. 

"Last winter, after recovering frdin 
a severe illness with diphtheria, and 
feeling the need of something to build 
me up, I took two bottles of Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. I felt good results from 
the first dose. It seemed to go from 
my head to the ends of my toes." G. 
H. Stratton, druggist, West!ield, Mass. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla— 100 Doses One Dollar, 



HOOD'S TOOTH POWDER. 



29 



Fmiit JelJ/y. 

Prepare a quart of wine jelly. Put a 
little on the bottom of a Charlotte Kusse 
mould, which, during preparation, keep 
in a pan surrounded with ice. Into it 
(h-op. here and there, small pieces of 
gold-beater's skin. Have ready 12 fresh 
strawberries, 12 grapes, 12 cherries, 
ana 1 peach cut in 8 pieces. Put 8 
strawberries on the bottom with a 
l)iece of peach between each two. Cover 
these with jelly. When the jelly is set, 
Ijlace in another row of fruit, proceed- 
ing as before, till the mould is full. 
Do not place the fruit too close, and 
variegate it as much as possible. If in 
winter, use 3 small apples, which cut in 
quarters and put in a stew-pan with 
the piece of a lemon and l oz. of pow- 
dered sugar. Set over a slow fire to 
stew until tender, then cool. Peel and 
take the pith from 2 oranges, cut in 
(juarters. Arrange these with candied 
cherries and malaga grapes, tastefully, 
in the mould, filling with jelly, as be- 
fore. To obtain the effect of layers of 
variegated colored jelly, take half 
the wine jelly and put in a little 
cochineal (to be had of any druggist) ; 
this will give a red color. In filling the 
mould, alternate the layers of jelly, one 
of wine and one of red-colored. Any 
kinds of fruit can be used. To the re- 
mains of a jelly, add lemon juice, and 
beat until it is white. Then remould. 
Hood's Tooth Powder is approved by 
some of the best dentists. 

Chocolute. 

In preparing chocolate, cut off 2 inches 
in length of the cake to 1 quart of water. 
Stir it in a little cold water till soft, 
then pour on the boiling water. After 
it ha« boiled a short time, add a pint 
of milk, brmg to a boil, and then serve. 

The French put 2 cups of boiling 
water to each cup of chocolate. They 
tlirow in the chocolate, just as the 
water commences to boil. Stir It with 
a spoon so soon as it boils up, add 2 
cups of good milk, and, when it has 
boiled sufficiently to cook, sei-ve. 



Hood's Tooth Powder, 

Having established itself as the best 
known dentifrice, is continually grow- 
ing in popular favor. It preserves, 
cleanses, and beautifies the teeth, and 
hardens the gums, giving them a bright, 
healthy color. It leaves a cool, re- 
freshing sensation in the mouth, and 
gives to the breath a pleasing sweetness. 
Made by C. I. Hood & Co., Lowell, Mass. 
Small bottles 25 cents ; large size .50 
cents. Sold by all druggists. 

What the Dentists Say. 

"I have made a critical examination 
of Hood's Saponaceous Tooth Powder, 
and can assure the public that it does 
not contain anything that can possibly 
injure the teeth, either mechanically 
or chemically." G. A. Gerry, D. D. S., 
Lowell, Mass. 

' I have used Hood's Tooth Powder 
j in my family, and recommended it to 
my patients, for several years, with 
excellent satisfaction to them and to 
j myself. As a preserver and cleanser 
of the teeth, it cannot be surpassed. 
My knowledge of the materials of 
which it is made, enables me to assure 
the public that it is impossible for it 
to do any injuiy to the teeth or gums.'' 
Thos. Cogswell, D. D. S., Lawrence's 
Building, Tremont Street, Boston, Mass. 

" It gives me much pleasure to com- 
mend Hood's Saponaceous Tooth 
Powder to the public. In my profes- 
sion, it has worked like a charm ; in 
my family and among my friends, it 
has proved itself satisfactory in the 
highest possible degree. Delightful to 
use, and so efBcacious in cleansing 
the teeth and hardening the gums, that 
I predict for you a sale that will rap- 
idly increase, as its real worth be- 
comes more generally knowaa." C. H. 
Gerrish, D. D. S., Exeter, N. H. 

"i have used Hood's Saponaceous 
Tooth Powder in my practice for sev- 
eral years, and can assure the public 
that it is an article worthy theli- en- 
tire confidence." O. M. Eice, Dentist, 
Chelsea, Vt. 



Hood'. 9 Tooth Powder — The Best, Dentifrice. 



30 



HOOD'S COOK BOOK. 



Coffee. 

In making coffee, allow oae large 
tablespoonful for each person and one 
•'for the pot" ; stir an egg with the dry 
coffee and pour on boiling water, allow- 
ing 3 pints of water to 7 spoonfuls of 
coffee. Boil gently lo minutes. Before 
serving, let it settle. 

A Good Cup of Tea. 

To make a good cup of tea, take a 
clean kettle, never used for any other 
purpose, fill it with fresh water, the 
harder the better, boll quickly, and 
pour upon leaves fresh from the can- 
ister. Let it stand four or five minutes, 
and then drink. If more is needed, 
place fresh leaves iu a cup and pour 
fresh boiling water on them. In a few 
minutes, add to the pot. 

Peanut Cand^y, 

Two cups sugar, K cup water ; let it 
boil; then add % teaspoonful cream tar- 
tar, dissolved In a little cold water. 
Cook mitil, when dropped in cold water, 
it is brittle ; then add a small piece of 
butter, siie of an English walnut ; cook 
a few minutes longer. Pour over the 
shelled nuts, already spread in a but- 
tered tin, and set away to cool. 

Preserves. 

Evei-y article of this sort, or confec- 
tionery, should be made of the best of 
sugar ; small fruits, for jams, should be 
boiled to" evaporate the water, before 
measuring or weighing. Melt 1 pound 
sugar in }i pint water, and ])ut into 
every (juart jar of fruit. Place the jars 
or bottles in cool water and raise to 
hoili)ig ]ioiut. Steam the corks, and 
jiare tbem to a close fit, driving them in 
witli a mallet. Use the following wax 
for sealing : 1 pound resin, .'$ oz. bees- 
wax, l>2 oz. tallow. Use a brush in 
covering the corks, and as they cool, 
dip the mouth into the melted wax. 
Place in a basin of cool water. Pack 
in a cool, dai'k, and dry cellar. After 
one week, examine for flaws, cracks, or 
signs of ferment So soon as pared, 
drop pears and peaches In cold water. 



How to Enjoy Good Coolcery. 

To fully enjoy tl)c delicious cookery, 
in aid of which the choicest receipts 
are given iu Hood's Cook Book, re- 
quires a state of perfect health. An 
active body and a sprightly mind en- 
sure a good appetite and good diges- 
tion. So do Hood's Vegetable Pills. 
Impair, clog, debase, or enervate the 
functions of the body ; overcloud, em- 
barrass, or obscure the processes of 
the mhid ; and you limit, just so much, 
the enjoyment of your dinner and 
other meals. Good digestion makes 
certain a good appetite. Hood's Vege- 
table Pills ensure good digestion. 
The fruitful source of evil in this di- 
rection is constij)ation, or a sluggish 
digestion. When resulting, as it often 
does, from profligate habits and unwise 
indulgence, relief can be directly, 
safely, and judiciously obtained in the 
use of Hood's Pills, a gentle laxative,, 
which promptly aid nature to dlsbm-- 
den the oppression. Neglect leads to 
a variety of disorders, diseases, and 
disasters, whicli it is best to avoid and 
prevent, when it can be so easily done 
by these raiid. l)ut efQcient Pills. Price 
only 25 cents; five boxes, $i. Sent 
by mail to any address on receipt of 
price. Made only by C. I. Hood & Co., 
Apothecaries, Lowell. 

Before Eating. 

If, while taking Hood's Sarsaparilla, 
tlie tongue should assume a brown or 
white coating, a dose of Hood's Vege- 
table Pills a half hour before eating, 
and, in troublesome causes, on going to 
bed, will relieve the stomach and clean 
the whole intestinal canal. 

"jHood's Vegetable Pills are the best 
1 ever used." Mrs. E. Masox, Hamp- 
t<m, N. H. 

"We think we yannot get along with- 
out Hood's Vegetable Pills." Eva M. 
PHirrRi^D,. Eastman, P. Q. 

"We have used Hood's Vegetable 
Pills, and we think they are splendid." 
Mhs. S. W. Post, Bennett's Bridge, Conn. 



TToo^'.v VeqetahU Pills — BpM Family Coihnriic, 



HO o J) ' ,v r A' 6' a; 7' .i b l k /^ / y> /. .s' . 



;n 



Tomato Satcce. 

Put in a stew-pan a quart can of to- 
matoes, 2 cloves, a sprig of thyme, 2 
sprigs of parsley, half a bay leaf, 3 
pepper-corns, 3 allspice, 2 slices of car- 
rot, 1 small onion, and boil about 20 
minutes; then strain through a sieve. 
Now, melt in another pan i}4 oz. of 
butter, and as it bubbles, sprinkle in 
':. oz. flour ; stir till well cooked. Mix 
with tlu- tomato pulp, and it is ready 
for the table. Hood's Vegetable Pills 
are sold by all druggists. 

Tomato Ketchup. 

Iloil ripe tomatoes 1 horn- ; strain 
through a sieve. To 1 qt. of juice add 
1 tai»lespoouful cinnamon, 1 tablespoon- 
I'ul l)lack pepper, >a tablespoonful cay- 
t'lme. 1 talilespoonful ground mustard, 
'{ cup salt, 2 onions chopped fine. Boil 
.•; hours. Then to each quart of juice 
add I j>Int cider \anegar and boil half 
an hour longer. Bottle hot. Ont^ cent 
;i dose — Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Xo vegetable can Ket<;hup with the 
tamato. Xo Sarsaparilla with Hood's. 

Macaroni with Tomatoes,. 

Boil macaroni in a little water with 
a piece of beef until tender. Take out 
the meat ; season the gv^xy \\1th salt 
and pepper ; thicken with a little flour, 
and add the tomatoes strained. Hood's 
Vegetable Fills are gentle in action. 

Stewing Totnatoea. 

In stewing tomatoes, pour away the 
surplus water, so soon as they begin to 
boil, and add a small piece of butter, a 
very little sugar, pepper, and salt ; cook 
about 15 minutes, when stir in bread 
crumbs, if you like them. Hood's Veg- 
etable rills cure constipation. 

Entirely Cured. 

■ I see many people have been cured 
by taking Hood's Safsaparilla. I can 
say for one more that I have been 
entirely cured of scrofula by taking 
two bottles of Hood's Sarsaparilla." 
maa. E.WHTTEHrLL, Mclndoes Falls, Vt. 



Hood's Veget€U>l,e JPiUs 

Positively relieve and cure costlveness 
and constipation. Their action is gentle, 
and the channel is left in a perfectly 
natural condition. They do not purge, 
but operate without pain, and never 
gripe. All dniggi.sts keep them ; but 
to parties not convenient to a reliable 
drug-store, they will be sent by mail, 
on receipt of price and address. 

A costive habit may ensue from 
inattention and neglect, or from debil- 
ity of tlie intestinal canal. Tlie intelli- 
g(HU control of the first is in the power 
of the sufferer himself. The other is 
never cured by will power, however 
intelligent. In either case the obstruc- 
tion fosters an irritated and irritable 
disposition, as well as produces a foul 
and loathsome odor from the skin. 
You are sick, and discontented with 
yourself. You are odious and oft'ensive 
to others. Get a box of Hood's Veg- 
etable Pills. They are compounded of 
the choicest laxative and cathartic 
principles, are promjd to act. and that 
without interruption to your business 
or your pleasures. Avoid purging and 
purgatives. If you have trifled with your 
costive habit, carry a box of Hood's 
Pills with you, and take one or two 
as a dinner pill, daily, till the normal 
condition of the bowels i.s restored 
They are in large request by elderly 
persons for this very purpose. 

Many cases of neuralgia proceed 
from constipation. Because of the de- 
tention of waste tissue in the lower 
part of the canal, nutrition is but 
partial, awl an irritation create<l, both 
of which make themselves manifest 
through the nerves. If the nerve were 
permanently deranged, the pain would 
be constant, like the toothache ; but 
where it be tttful and irregular, the 
trouble lies in deficient nutrition, or 
the irritation proceeding from costlve- 
ness in the bowels. Hood's Vegetable 
Pills will give relief. Made by C. T. 
Hood & Co., Lowell, Mass. only 25 c«nt» 
a box ; five for $1. Sold by drugj^sts. 



Mood's Vegetable Pills — 25 cents per hox. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



Ambrosia 27 

Angel Cake 27 

Apple Croutes 17 

Apple Pie 17 

Baked Apple Pudcling..l8 

Bauana Pudding 19 

Bavarian Cream 21 

Beef, Corned 8 

Beefsteak 6 

Blueberry Cake 26 

Boiled Pea Pods 8 

Butter, Drawn 15 

Cake, How to Make 25 

Angel 27 

Blueberry 2(5 

Fig 28 

Minnehaha 28 

Mrs. Kane's 25 

Saratoga Corn.... 26 

Sponge 27 

Candy, Peanut 30 

Cheese, Cottage 21 

Chess Cakes 28 

Pie 17 

Chicken, Pillau 16 

Pressed 8 

and Macaroni.l2 

Salad 12 

Chocolate 29 

Chocolate Pudding 18 

Cocoanut Pudding 18 

Corned Beef 8 

Corn Cake, Saratoga — 26 

Corn Custard 28 

Cottage Cheese 21 

Cream, Bavarian 21 

Fritters 24 

Oysters 9 

Potato 5 

Sauce 22 

Custard, Boiled 21 

Corn 28 

Lemon 20 

Drawn Butter 15 

Drawn Butter for Fish.. 15 
Dressing, Mayonnaise.. 14 



Dropped Eggs 9 

Eclairs 20 

Eggs, Cold, for Picnic . .10 

Dropped 9 

Omelet lo 

Escalloped Potato 5 

Fig Cake 28 

FoldingTable Napkin.. 3 

Fowls, TPotting. 7 

French Salad Dressing. 12 

Stew 4 

Fried Lamb Kidneys ... 8 

Oysters 9 

Fritters 24 

Cream 24 

Kidney 8 

Fruit Jelly 29 

Hash 6 

Hickorv Nut Cookies... 28 

Jelly, Fruit 29 

Lemon 23 

Wine 23 

Kidney Fritters 8 

Lamb Kidneys, Fried ... 8 

Lemons, Pickled 14 

Lemon Custard 20 

Jelly 23 

Pie 16 

Macaroni, Chicken and. 12 
Tomatoes — 31 

Macedoines 23 

Mackerel, Spiced 14 

Mayonnaise Dressing. . . 14 

Minnehaha Cake 28 

Mrs. Kane' s Cake 25 

Mustard Pickle 14 

Nantucket Ben-y Pud- 
ding 19 

Omelet lo 

Oyst-ers, Cream 9 

Fried 9 

Pan for Angel Cake 27 

Peanut Candy 30 

Pea Pods, Boiled 8 

Pickled Lemons 14 

Pickle, Mustard 14 



Pic, Apple 17 

Chess 17 

Lemon is 

Pine-apple 16 

Prune 17 

Pine-apple Pie 16 

Potato, Cream 5 

Escalloped 5 

Puff 5 

Polling Fowls 7 

Surplus Meats.. 7 
Ham, Beef, Veal, 

etc 7 

Pressed Chicken 8 

Prune Pie 17 

Pudding, Baked Apple. 18 

Banana 19 

Chocolate 18 

Cocoanut 18 

Nan'k't Berry. 19 

Rice 19" 

Rice Pifdding 19 

Roast, Time to 11 

Sabyllon 22 

Salad, Chicken 12 

Salad Dresshig, French. 12 
Saratoga Corn Cake — 26 

Sauce, Cheap, Plain 22 

Cream 22 

Strawberiy 21 

Soup, Tomato 4 

Spiced Mackerel 14 

Stewing ii 

Stock, or Pot-au-Feu 4 

Strawberry Sauce 21 

Surplus Meats, Potting. 7 

Time to Roast 11 

Toast 16 

To Make Cake 25 

Tomato Ketchup 31 

Sauce 31 

Soup 4 

Tomatoes, Macaroni 31 

Stewing 31 

AVaffles 24 

Wine Jellv 23 



REMEDIES, CURES, ETC 



Alter Diphtheria 24 

All Run Down 28 

Appetite 15, 17 

Boils 15,28 

Cancerous Humor 8 

Catarrh 18 

Children Saved... 20, 23, 24 

Consumption 19 

Cough 19 

Diphtheria 24 

Dyspepsia 10, 12, 13, 14 



Erysipelas 26 

Hood's Sarsaparilla...l-3i 
Hood's Olive Ointment. 25 
Hood's Tooth Powder.. 28 
Hood's Vegetable Pills, 
30,31 

Humors 13 

Impure Blood 11 

Indigestion 12, 13 

Languor 5 

Pimples 24 



Rheumatism 21, 22 

Salt Rheum 9, 26 

Scrofula 7,8,9, 19,27 

Sick" Headache 11 , 14 

Sleeplessness 28 

Spring Medicine 5, 6 

Terribly Burned 25 

Three PecuUarities 4 

Vaccination." 23 

Varicose Veins 

What Dentists Say 29 



HISTORY OF HOOB'S SARSAPARILLA, 



Like many other valuable discoveries, 
the invention of the medicine which has 
made the name oi' C. I. Hood & Co. 
so well known all over the United 
States, was owing pajtly to chance, 
followed up by patie^, careful, and 
thoughtful stud|^. Among the customers 
at the pharmacy, which eight years ago 
constituted the sole business of Messrs. 
C. I. Hood & Co., was a gentleman who 
for years had suffered intenseljr from 
neuralgic pains, and who told Mr. Hood 
that if he thought he must endure anotlier 
winter what he had borne in the past, 
he believed he should commit suicide. 
This gentleman at last received a 
prescription which he brought to 
"Hood's" to be compounded. The 
experienced pharmacist quickly per- 
ceived that though the base of tke 
prescription was the same as that of 
many precediu'g ones in the same case, 
with It were other ingredients, making an 

ENTIRELY NEW COMBIMVTION. 

The attention of the customer was called 
to this fact, and the result was 
awaited with great anxiety. The patient 
was not only relieved of his distressing 
pains, but in a short time announced 
himself as permanently cur6d. Tire idea 
of this peculiar combination was at 
once worked out, and, after systematic 
labor and repeated ejiperiment, was 
brought forth the now celebrated 

HOOD'S SARSAPARILLA. 

A demand for the medicine arose, and 
in a short time the quarters used for 
manufacturing it were found too small. 
Rooms in a business block near fey 
were engaged, and it was thought that 
the firm now had ample room. But in 
one short year, so large had the de- 
mand for the new blood purifier in- 
creased, and so rapidly extended was 
its popularity, that still larger quarters 
were engaged. This time a large 
wooden building, on the line of the 
Boston & Maine Railroad, was leased, 
and ft was thought at last Hood's 
Sarsaparilla had - found a permanent 
home. Biift in four years the business 



increased nearly ten times, and again 
more room was imperatively needed. 
Arrangements were made which resulted 
in the erection of the new Laboratory, 
a description of which is given on the 
second page of the cover of this Cook 
Book, and an engraving of which ap- 
pears on the fourth page. C. I. Hood 
& Co. have been located in this large 
and substantial building less than a 
single year, but it is already apparent 
that before long an erflargement or addi- 
tion will be needed. Are not these facts 

CONCLUSIVE EVIDENCE 

that the people have found in Hood's 
Sarsaparilla the remedy which has 
long been needed, and that they appre- 
ciate its wonderful vitalizing, enrich- 
ing, and purifying qualities ? Thousands 
of people have given it unsolicited words 
of approval and recommendation. It 
has been proven, beyond all doubt, 
to have wonderful power in 

RESTORING AND INVIGORATING 

the whole system, in renovating and en- 
riching the blood, in giving an appetite 
and tone to the stomach, in eradicating 
and curing scrofula, scrofulous humors, 
ringworms, salt rheum, boils, pimples 
and hunors on the face, catanih, liead- 
ache, dizziness, faintness at the stomach, 
constipation, pains in the back, kidney 
complaint, female weakness, general 
debility, eostiveness, biliousness, dyspep- 
sia, indigestion, lassitude, and languor 
peculiar to sprin-g and hot weather, 
loss of appetite, and all diseases aris- 
ing from an impure state or low con- 
dition of the blood. 

A PECULIAR FEATURE 

Of Hood's Sarsaparilla, and to which we 
call special attention, is One Hundred 
Doses One Dollar, an unanswerable argu- 
ment as to econon^^, while indisputable 
evidence shows that Hood's Sarsaparilla 
is the strongest, most effective, and most 
satisfactory blood purifier known. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla 

Sold by druggists. $1 ; six for $5. JVJRide 
only by C. I. HOOD & CO., Lowell, Mass. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




THE NEW LABORATORY OF 



C. I. HOOD & CO., Apothecaries, 



SOLE PROPRIETORS OF 



HOOD'S SARSAPARILLA, 

THORNDIKE STREET L0WELL, MASS. 

100 Doses One Dollar. 



m^^For a brief and interesting description of the New Laboratory, 
see Page Two of the Covet of this Cook Book. 



