Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



THE VINICULTURE 



OP 



CLARET 



A TllEATISE ON THE MAKING, MATURING, AND 
KEEPING OF CLARET WINES 



BY 

THLC VISCOUNT VILUA MAIOK 



f 



Translated by Rev. John I. Bleasdale, D D 
Organic Analyst and CEjiologist, &c 



SAN FRANCISCO, CAL 
I'AVOX, Ul^HAM & CO., l^U13IvISHHiR5S 

1884 



Entered according to Act of Congress, in tfae year 1884, 

By J. I BLEASDALE. 

In the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C. 



Printed by Geo Siniuldiim rfi Co. 
iU CUiy Street. 



San F11A.NCI8UO, CaL, 2M .Juue, 188-4. 

Abpad Haiiaszthy, Esquike, President of thel 
Viiiicultural Society and California State J 
Board of Viticnltui'al Ooinmiasiouurs : 

Dtxir Sir — I have much pleasui'e in dedi4 
eating to you tbo transliition of tliis treatia^ 
by Viscount Villa Maior, of Portugal, because 1 
at the present time, more than ever before, 
accurate and minute information conceriiing ■] 
ubatilutely aU the details of the making, treat- 1 
iug and keeping of Ciabet is required, if our \ 
vintners are to compete successfully with the J 
higher grade of French red wines, which wiUi 
alone in future be sent into Ameiican markota3 
and because of your untiring life-labors to I 
place the wines (eBi)ecially the Clarets) of Cal- 
ifornia in the high position they are capable 
of holding among the wines of the world; and 
lastly, because a seven years' residence ia l 
Portugal, and a five years' residence here, ■! 
enable me to speak with confidence of tlieirj 
similarity in both climate and soil, and thd \ 
adaptability of tbu practical directions of this 
small treatise to meet present requirements. 

Faithfully yours, 

JOHN I. BLEA8i:>ALE, 



TO THE READER. 



This ti^eatiso, in twelve short chapters, is 
here offered to those interested in Cliret Wines. 
It hardly touches on white wine, the object of 
the author — himself one of the most renowned 
practical wine men of the world — being to 
teach his ignorant countrymen how to make 
a wine capable of competing successfully in 
the English markets, not more than 26 British 
proof, so that it might enter English marts 
under the same tariff as French red wine. 

J. I. Bleasdale. 



INTRODUCTION. 



Tlie makpra of wiint are nnmoroiis enough, 
but few mrtke it well. Yot to make wine well^ 
I is not a matter so difficult as to exceed the com- j 
I prehension of ordinary underatondinga. 

Beyond all doubt, there exist in Portugal all I 
the requisite conditions for the producing of J 
I nnmerona distinct, and very various tintia of ■ 
[ -ffines, the major part of which are capable of | 
I acquiring excellent qualities, and of constituting I 
a moat important branch of oommeree, and a I 
I great increase of public wealth. But it is also I 
I certain that beyond the generous wines of the I 
[ Douro and Madeira, those of the Bairrada and I 
I Bomo of the Estremadura, tlie rest have but a I 
I Tery poor show for exportation; while yet they ] 
I might and ought to hold a preponderance : 
[ foreign markets, seeing that the principal wine- | 
fusing coontries demand at the present day, j 
I principally genuine wines, moderately alcoholic, i 
) nourifihing, and fit tor oTdinary drinking. 



8 INTRODUCTION. 

Our export business in this branch has not 
yet begun; yet it is just from it that we ought 
to derive our greatest wealth; because it is just 
this class of wines which we can produce on 
the greatest scale, and nt least cost, thus being 
in a position to supply them cheap, circumstan- 
ces conducible to the extension of the wine in- 
dustry and the increase of profit. 

In regard to this kind of wines, we have hith- 
erto contented ourselves, for the most part, 
with supplying our domestic requirements from 
year to year, to the extent that at the arrival of 
next year's vintage hardly any remains from 
the preceding year, and that itself so badly 
made that but little of it reaches the end of the 
summer without having commenced to show 
signs of decay. On this account, probably, it 
has not found its way into commerce for expor- 
tation. 

It certainly is not due to the natural condi- 
tions of our viticultural regions; nor, generally 
speaking, to the bad quality of the grapes em- 
ployed in makin^' our wines of consumption, to 
which we can attribute the imperfections we 
find in them; but to original defects in tliemak- 



INTRODUCTION. 9 

ing, and the little or no care bestowed, on their 
keeping. 

With the view of rendering some assistance 
towards the improvement of our pure nutritious 
wines, whether for home consumption or export, 
I am writing this compendium of the principal 
rules, precepts, and principles governing the 
management, etc., of wines; as being specially 
adapted to the conditions of our different wine 
regions. 




• i 



"S 



GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS 



Although there may lie innumerable varieties 
(if wines, between the commonest and the higlfc) 
est class, still a wU mcufe mne is always a j 
wine, within the limits of its category. 

The qualities which any given wine should ■ 
have, to entitle it to be considered good, in its 
class, stand always in relation to the nature of 
that wine. Thus the qualities of a good gi-een 
{vinlto verde) wine, no matter from what quarter J 
of Minho, ought not to be compared with thoM 
qnalitdes of good ripe winea of other parts of , 
the country;, and for the same reason, in order 
that we should consider good a wine of ordi- 
nary consumption, we should not compare it 
with generous wines of a superior class. Ab^J 
solut« equality between things, as well as he* 
tween men, is a chimera. 

For each species of wine there ought to be a 
perfect type to which all of that class should bo 
referred. This typical wine ought to bo the 
product of the very best quality of grapes grown 
in the district, and which have attained the 
most perfect maturity; made with all care; free 
from the impurities wliich might endanger ite 



12 VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

keeping qualities, and finally nursed up to the 
highest point of perfection of which it is suscep- 
tible. 

All good wines, in the order to which they be- 
long, are pleasant to the palate, on account of 
their peculiar relish and perfume; to the sense 
of smell by their bouquet, and to the sight by 
their color and brilliancy which attest their pu- 
rity. All should be easily digested, in order to 
bo healthy, neither prejudicing the health nor 
the reason, when used in moderation, relatively 
to their nature. 

Many are the kinds and varieties of wines 
which we can make. It would be in the high- 
est degree advantageous, if we had a perfect 
and definite classification and differentiation of 
them all; but since all the elements indispensa- 
ble for it are not at present in existence, we 
can, at least provisionally, content ourselves 
with distributing in the following groups, viz : 

1. Ordinary and fine table wines, both for 
home consumption and for export. 

2. Generous and alcoholic wines of great en- 
durance. 

3. Liqueur and special wines. 

4. Wines fit only for distillation. 

Every one knows that the recognized species 
and varieties of wines depend for their nature 



VINICULTURE OF CLARET, 



anil qualities ou the griipes tbey ure made frou) 
iiiid tlie metbotk followed m the makiug. 

The vineyariliat who iinderiakea to direct th« 
making of his own wine, heforo all, shonld ha« 
a clear idea of the exact result he seeks to obi 
tain; that is to nay, of the eharaeter of wine hd 
hopes to obtain, so aa to employ the materia 
ami method best calculated to secure the object 
he is aiming at. To make wine or anything else 
at haphazard and erapyrically, is to act irration- 
ally. And so likewise lie should always hav^ 
before his mind the type best suited to the na-J 
ture of hia produce, and to know thoroughly^ 
the process by which the typical wine was made. 
In a country like ours, whore the conditions 
for making wine are so grand and so various, it 
is almost impossible to lay do'ivn fixed and in- 
I Tftriable nilea for making all the different kinds 
of wine, whicli may be rigorously applied in the 
several districts. It is out of the question, in 
a small work like the present, that I should de- 
scend to all particulars which are interesting to 
the different wine districts. I shall confine ■ 
myself to a description of general methods, ap- ] 
, pUcable to the gi'eat majority of cases; and 
I chiefly to the miinufacture of generous and nu- 
\ tritious wines, which are comprised in the fiitit 
group as stated above; and are the kinds which . 
can have anil ought to have increased conaump-* 



14 VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

tion, and produce a more extensive and lucra- 
tive export. 

In the making of all kinds of wines, there are 
certain general rules which it is well to have at 
one's finger-ends, applicable to all cases; and 
which, once fully comprehended, can be readily 
modified and applied in especial cases, which 
are determined by the condition of particular 
localities. I will endeavor to expound these 
rules, and show their raison detre, indicating, 
as far as possible, the variations and exceptions 
necessary to be attended to in the more remark- 
able of particular cases. 



*^ 



THE VINTAGE. 



Wine-making is the ultimate aim find object of ■ 
yitic lilt lire, the multifarious operations of wMohT 
ouglit to be directed to the produciug of goo^iB 
grapes, sucli as alone yield good wine. I hav^f 
no intention at present of entering upon vine-" 
yard cultivation, a subject large enough for b 
entire treatise; and so I will leave it at the jjoint 
when tlie grapes arrive at a sttite of ripeness fit- 
tii^ them to make wine, for hero a tiiie indns- 
try commences in which the jirimary material is 
the grape, and the product — wine. Upon the 
vintage, wliich comprises the gathering and 
preparation of the grapes, as thu primary ma-- 1 
terial of wine, depends in a great d.'gree thd| 
result of the wine making, which ia the essen*! 
tial operation of this industry. 

The prudent viueyardist, before commencing! 
to gather his grapos, should bear in mind the.'I 
various concUtions essential to the iiniil li'^ppj^i 
result of luH operations. The tu-st bears rela-^ 
tion to the actual state of his grapes; the s 
ond, to the state of the weather; and the third^j 
to the state of Lis whole plant, crusliors, pross* 
es, fermenting vats, baiTels, and all other iiteHi 



16 VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

sils requisite for a wine cellar. Any careless- 
ness about any of these indispensable requisites 
may give rise to disturbances and inconveni- 
ences better to be avoided. 

As to the state of ripeness in which the grapes 
ought to be in order to yield good wine, it is 
agreed on all hands that this occurs just when 
the grapes have attained natural — that is to say, 
perfect — ripeness. But no uniform indication 
of it can be given, and many considerations 
have to be taken into account to render it prac- 
tically useful. 

Bechamp distinguishes two Kinds of ripeness 
in grapes — ^physiological ripeness, and conven- 
tional ripeness. 

1. Physiological ripeness is complete when 
the seed of the grape is ripe enough to repro- 
duce its kind. This ripeness may be insuffi- 
cient for the production of certain wines, and 
even to give to all the highest degree of perfec- 
tion of which they are capable. 

2. Conventional ripeness, is relative to the 
kinds of, and the quality of, wine sought to be 
made from them; and in this way we can draw 
a line between grapes properly ripe and grapes 
excessively and overripe. The grape is well 
ripe for making good wine when the principles 
contained in the berry, and have to furnish the 
must, are in a state of equilibrium — that is. 



VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 17 

when the sugar has attained the maximum of 
which the kind under consideration is suscepti- 
ble, without the berry having lost its plump- 
ness and freshness. 

The grape is overripe, or excessively ripe, 
when it begins to show that it is passing on to 
become a raisin, the berries losing a part of 
their natural water. From this loss of normal 
water there results an increase of sugar in the 
must, and a modification of the taste of the 
fruit. 

For the making of nearly all wines, but most 
especially for good table wines and food wines 
(vinJios de pasto), the first consideration is that 
the grapes be naturally ripe, neither over nor 
underripe. But how are we to know that the 
grape has attained to this state ? Simply look- 
ing at grapes, whether white or black, is not 
enough ; the taste for those who have competent 
knowledge of the kinds, and long practice, is 
certainly a more secure criterion, but of no use 
to those who need our advice. To such we can 
only oflfer the advice, touching this characteris- 
tic that they should study and compare the 
flavor and peculiar sweetness of each kind at 
the difterent periods of their ripening, because 
in nearly all of them there are appreciable dif- 
ferences. As for the rest, in the well ripe grape, 
the foot stalk and all the woody parts of the 



18 VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

bunch begin to shrivel, and to assume a darker 
color, and the berry becomes easily detached 
from the peduncle, leaving attached to it a part 
of the cord which had served to nourish the 
fruit. The skin of the grape becomes thinner 
and more delicate; the berry on the under side 
becomes nearly translucent, and appears some- 
what soft; sweetness becomes the prevailing 
taste, and the juice is thicker, and feels sticky 
to the fingers, like sugar syrup. Analysis forms 
the most reliable ground for judging when grapes 
are in th^ condition to form the best wine; nev- 
ertheless, though there is little difficulty about 
it, still but few are able to avail themselves of 
its advantages. The principal ingredients whose 
quantity it is most desirable to determine in the 
must, are the sugar and acids, because from their 
mutual relations we may deduce with much prob- 
ability what the quality of the wine will be. A 
high degree of saccharine implies a low degree 
of acids, and musts in this condition will yield 
fine spirituous wines. In this case the musts 
which contain more than 25 per cent, of sac- 
charine and less than 0.5 per cent, of acid are 
represented by monhydrated sulphuric acid 
S O3, H O. When the amount. of acid comes 
near 1 per cent., the quantity of sugar is almost 
always below 15 per cent., and the wines re- 
sulting are generally weak, cool, and but little 
spirituous. 



VINICULTURE OF VLAliET. 



To the tlifferout kinds of grapes gvown in tlH 
same locality, there correspond, whwi in 
of perfect maturity, difl'ereut quantities of siigar„| 
of acidB, and of other principles which 
into the composition of their juice; qnautitiof 
which, however, may vary within certain limite 
according as the seasons were more or less £ 
vorable. But still what is of paramount impojs 
tance to the vinyardist, is to know when hisl 
grapes are ripe enough for the vintage -^wlieij- 1 
their sugar has attained the maximum of nai->J 
ui'ally ripe grapes, relatively to eacli kind, or 8 
general average over all, when the diiTereni^ 
sorts are not separated. When the sugar «^ 
pears to be stationary (or a day or two, t 
vintapie may be begun. 

The plan of this short treatise does not admii!] 
of an exposition of the analytical methods 
tioned above, nor in fact does the greater part 
of the vineyardists, to whom I dedicate this 
work, possess the knowledge and appliances 
requisite for conducting analyses. I will 
merely mention, incidentally, that in the first 
part of his " Technologia Rural," J. I. Fai 
reira Lapa has described the instrumeuti; and^ 
processes indispensable for conducting sucb.l 
analyBtis. 

There is at present in common use a speciiU. I 
lerometer called glnvoiwlci-. rilefico-fmnnieler, or J 



20 VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

sim]>ly a must iveigher, which may, when more 
exact methods are not available, serve to indi- 
cate the approximate saccharine strength of 
musts. The way to use it is very simple. The 
grapes whose must we wish to test are pressed; 
the mass is then to be filtered through a clean 
linen or cotton cloth, and collected in a tall 
vessel, so that the instrument can float freely. 
If the temperature of the air and must exceed 
6P F., it is necessary to place the vessel in cold 
water till this temperature is attained; then in- 
troduce the glncometer into the fluid, which 
will sink till it becomes stationary. The exact 
degree indicated is then read off, which (after 
having subtracted one degree for each twelve 
marked) gives the quantity of alcohol which the 
sugar contained in the must will yield. By 
making this experiment with the same kind of 
grapes, or with different kinds mixed in the 
same pro])ortions, for a few successive days, it 
will be seen that the quantity of sugar increases 
as ripeness progresses; but, on arriving at a 
certain point, the indicated strength will appear 
stationary on two or more successive occasions, 
and this indicates that the vintage sliould be- 
gin. 

The mere observation of the density by Gay- 
Lussac's densimeter, which gives the weight of 
a definite volume of must, furnishes a safe indi- 



VINICULTURE OF CLARET, 21 

cation for determining the richness of a must. 
The denser the must the more sugar is there in 
it. The indications of this instrument are very 
important in fixing the time of the vintage and 
foreseeing the richness of the wine about to be 
made. 

In a vineyard planted with one kind only, and 
in which all the conditions of soil, situation and 
exposure should be uniform, one would say that 
the grapes would all arrive at maturity at one 
and the same time, but this very seldom hap- 
pens. In most of our vineyards, besides the 
diversity of natural conditions, the kinds culti- 
vated are very various, and as each one has its 
own period of perfect maturity, there is no hope 
of all of them being ready for gathering at the 
same time. It is necessary, however, in the 
greater number of seasons to make the vintage 
all at once, and to this end we have to select a 
time when the greatest part of the grapes are 
quite ripe, hoping that if some part of them be 
overripe they will be compensated by others 
not fully ripe, to the extent of their deficiency 
of su^ar. 

In this as in most cases, a middle course is 
the best. If we gather the grapes before sub- 
stantially the whole of them are naturally ripe, 
we incur the risk of having a weak, acid, or a 
green, rough wine. If, on the other hand, we 



22 VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

wait till the whole have gone beyond natural ma- 
turity, we may reckon upon having a thick must 
difficult to ferment, and one which, with much 
care even, can hardly ever be properly made, 
being all the time liable to a succession of 
changes which may ruin it. Only certain special 
kinds of white wine require the grapes to be ex- 
cessively ripe, but the processes of making them 
are quite different from those employed in the 
making of genuine, alimentary {alimenlicios) 
wines, such as ought chiefly to occupy our at- 
tention. In the case of making dry wine, it is 
far better to gather the grapes a little before 
full natural ripeness than allow them to pass 
beyond it. The reader will now see that I am 
not treating of the making of those generous 
wines which are made after the pattern of those 
of the Douro, in which, through the addition of 
alcohol, the changes liable to arise out of the 
excess of sugar in the presence of matters lia- 
ble to cause fermentation, are effectually pre- 
vented. 

Meteorological conditions of the atmosphere 
exercise much influence upon wine-making, and 
deserve attention in this place while I am treat- 
ing of the vintage. Clear, dry, and moderately 
dry weather is best for the vintage. Warmth 
favors and stimulates fermentation; cold op- 
poses or retards it; consequently the tempera- 



VINJVULTUUE OF CLAlilCT. 



tare in \\fhi(;Ji the grjiptis ariive iu the cellar lia&'l 
a powei'fiil iniiiniutie ou the riao and progr 
fermentation. Damp, moist air has a not less 
remai'kable iuHuonco. In viueyania wherti thsl 
kinds oi grapes do not form much sugar, or 
■when they are proventod from attaining to per- 
fect i-ipenesa, dew, damp fogs and rain, through 
damping or wetting the grapes, tend sti-ongly tQ J 
dilute the must and to leave the wine watery 
and flat. On this account all gatheiiug shoul^^ 
' cease as long as the dew or fog or rain is upo^l 
them. In vineyards, however, where maturiQ 
is excessive rather than defii^ieut, the moisture^! 
I of a fog does no harm. In gathering grapes for 
white wine, it is even advantageohs to gather in 
I fo^Sy weather, since experience has proved that 
► in this state they yield wines which clear thera- 
I selves more easily and more perfectly. Rainy 
weather is always prejadic-ial dm-ing the vintage. 
The judicious and experienced vineyardist, 
' bearing in mind all these circumstances, can 
L lay out the plan of his vintage, and will almost 
always cany it on and finish it in good condi- 
k tion. In view of the state of maturity of his \ 
I gi'apes, and of the meteorological oircumstanues \ 
\ oi the atmoHjjhero, ho can dii'ect his work anAj 
[ foresee the results of his crop. When grapes^ I 
( often happens, ripon very irregularly, som&J 
being qnito ripe and others far from it, it bo-T 



24 VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

comes desirable to make partial gatherings, se- 
lecting only the ripest first, to make a wine of 
the first quality, and taking the rest as they 
ripen and making a second-class wine. These 
partial vintages often become very advantage- 
ous, especially to those who have knowledge 
and experience in making fine wines. 

It may, and it nearly always does, happen, 
owing to accidental circumstances, that among 
the grapes of the same vineyard, we meet with 
more or less which are unfit for making good 
wine, either through being gi*een and imper- 
fectly formed, or dry and shriveled, or rotten 
and moldy, or injured by hail, without men- 
tioning those affected by oidium. Now, it is 
simply indispensable that eveiy grape found af- 
fected in any of the above ways should be pick- 
ed out. Not one of them must ever be allowed 
to enter the crushing room or the fermenting 
vat, where the object is to make good wine, 
under pain of introducing into it causes of cer- 
tain destruction, which will show themselves 
sooner or later. Green and dry grapes impart 
to wine roughness and a detestable taste. The 
rotten and mildewed, and all such as have un- 
dergone any change, over and above the bad 
taste they impart to the wine, bring along with 
them into it the germs of ulterior fermentation, 
which eventually ruin it. The only good to be 



VJtilCnLTURE OF OLARST. 25 

got out of them is by pressing them apart and 
fermenting their must separately aod without 
the akins, and so obtaining an inferior wine. 
Thus the mildew, etc., will be arrested in the , 
pomace. 

From tiie period when oidinm attacked our 
vineyards, and when we had to employ sulphur 
to arrest its ravages, it has happened not un- 
frequently that a notable portion of the sulphur i 
found its way into the press-room, which, dur- 
ing fermentation, gave rise to aulphydric gaa, 
and which remained in the wine, comniunieating 
to it an offensive taste and the smell of rotten 
In some cases this trouble may be avoid- 
1 when the grapes aie well formed and very 
Vsacchariuo, by subjecting them to careful wash- 
I advice, when such a washing is needed, 
to proceed as follows: In a huge tub full of 
f water, which is to be frequently renewed, I 
I cause the wicker baskets in which the grapes 
f are brought from the vineyard, to be immersed 
I and carefully shaken about for a few minutes. 
■TThe sulpliur adhering to the bunches soon washes 
off and falls to the bottom of the tub through 
Ethe interstices of the baskets. Afterwards they 
liu% allowed to ilrain for awhile and lie exposed 
lio the air, and are titen ready for tlie press- 
Froom. Wine so made never gives any indioa- 
' tion of sulphydric acid gaa. 



26 VINICULTURE OF OLA RET, 

One of the requisites of a good vintage is, 
that it should be carried on in such a manner 
as that each fermenting vat should be full at 
the close of a day's work, so that fermentation, 
etc., might go on with uninterrupted regularity. 
Vineyardists who neglect this condition com- 
mit a grave error, giving cause for an irregular 
fermentation, which always injures the quality 
of the wine. As a matter of course, the num- 
ber of hands employed ought to be calculated 
for this end, and the work directed from this 
point of view. In the gathering and selection 
of the grapes, all possible care and vigilance 
are necessary. The employment of proper 
scissors is a thousand times preferable to the 
vile knives in common use among our vigner- 
ons. With the scissors the bunch is cut off 
without injury and without shaking the vine, 
which is not the case when ordinary knives are 
used. 



THE PLANT REQUIRED FOR MAKING 
WINE. 



Before treating of the tliffeiront operations c^M 
wiue makiug, it may be useful to pass in revieWI 
the nteusils and appliances required in th^ 
work. 

In the wine industry, as in most others, the 
appliances used have much to do with the after 
products. In wine making, the jwoctas utfo/ited 
is as important as are the vessels, the apparatiis, 
instruments and utensils which must of neceasn J 
ity be employed. 

The siiujilicily of the plant is a very pmise-l 
worthy matter, so long as it in sufficient fur the 1 
prompt and effective execution of the labor. 

In the gi'eater pai't of the chambers iu which 
our wines are mrule, which are oui- wine-work- 
shops, the simplicity is excessive and almost 
primitive, so much so that the same word seiTes 
to designate tlie liouae or office, and the stona' I 
taidc iu which the grapes are trodden, and'1 
which forms their principal part. 

A quadrangular stone tank, roughly built, ] 
raised somewhat above the Moor of a housa, . 
uearly always without a roof; another tank t 



28 VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

much smaller dimensions contiguous to and 
somewhat below it, which we call lagarica or 
pioy a beam fixed at one end against the wall of 
the tank, and having at the other end a 
hole into which is secured a smaller beam load- 
ed with one or more huge stones, the whole 
forming the wine-press, constitute the wine- 
making appliances of the greater portion of our 
wineries in the provinces of the north. The 
keeping-cellar is usually in no better condition. 

In the great vineyards of the Douro, and in 
others formed after their pattern, the system is 
the same, with the essential difference of the 
size, number and better disposition of the parts. 
There the press-houses and cellars are vast, 
regularly built and contiguous to each other; 
the first being erected on a floor higher than 
the second, so as to admit the wine to run from 
the press-rooms to the great vessels through 
covered channels. 

The tanks, the wells (pios) and the presses 
are placed methodically and symmetrically in 
the press rooms, as are the great keeping-ves- 
sels (toneis) in the cellar. 

To each tank there is a corresponding window 
through which the grapes are poured in as they 
are brought from the vineyard. To each two 
tanks there is a well which receives alternately 
the wine made in them, and from which it runs 



VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

tlirongh the covered channela ioto the tunsj 
{tnutis. ) 

All these arrangements would be highly a 
thy of imitation if thej coulil without inc 
veaience be adopted in the making of all wiuea^'l 
The wines of high and rapid fermeutation^ i 
made with grapes very rich in sugar, and all 
the expense of a prolonged and violent treaii'*J 
ing by men, and whose' deneify (ej-jjessura) i^l 
corrected afterwards by the addition of brandj-,.1 
can be made only in Qagares) atone tanks, snob's 
as those of the Doui'o. 

On the other baud, the more natural, puraj] 
genuine wines, which do not require to 
either exoessively trodden or derated, and.! 
above all, ordinary wines from grapes of moder?! 
ate or very limited saccharine strength, cannot J 
be conveniently made in these shallow stone o|a 
little depth and broad surface. 

There are many reasons why theRB tanks {la- \ 
garee) should be given up; they are ditEcult to-J 
wash perfectly clean, on account of tlie rough- 
ness of the stones, whilst absolute cleanlL 
of all vessels in which the wine is made, ii 
indispensable condition of the healthy after for- 
mation of the product, because they cool thea 
must and waste the heat required for fermenta^j 
tion; because their great opening and sliallow-<, 
ness prevent the must and pomace from beingi 



30 VINICULTURE OF CLARET, 

protected from the air, which might prove very 
injurious, as we shall soon see, to wines of less 
active fermentation, and therefore proportion- 
ately more prolonged; because on account of 
the very nature and form of their construction 
they occupy much space, because the angular 
spaces or corners interfere with the uniformity 
of the fermentation, withdrawing a portion of 
the must from the general movement to the 
prejudice of the regular formation of the wine, 
and lastly, because, when out of any motive we 
may wish to alter their dimensions or change 
the system, we are put to much more expense 
than would be the case if we had to alter wood- 
en vessels and appliances, or dispose of them, 
as they always possess an appreciable value. 

In those countries where the best food wines 
(vinhos de pasto) are made, stone tanks for work- 
ing the grapes are wholly unknown; and none 
are used but such as are made of oak hooped 
with iron; and these realized all the requisites 
for good vinification. This kind is not wholly 
unknown in Portugal, but is by no means com- 
mon; and those that we use are not always of 
the most convenient construction. 

Wine making in stone tanks, were it not for 
the drawbacks already pointed out, would real- 
ize the inestimable advantage of extreme sim- 
plicity, for the entire work could be done in 



Ir 



VINICULTURE OF CLAHET. 

them; the ati'ipping, if desired, tredtliug, fei^ 
menting and pressing the pomace. The gre« 
vats {hatsdroa) on the other liand, sei-ve only fo]^ 
fermenting. The grapes, wlien pnt in must bS'jl 

I completely crusheil, find as soon as fei-menta-fl 
tion is over, the pomaeo must be taken out toa 
be pressed. But notwithstanding this appareai^ 

■ round-about way, thoy are in every sense to beV 
' preferred in the making of pure, genuine ali— ■ 
mentary wines, principally the red kinds; fopl 
whito wines, not intended to be blended with* 
red, may be made differently, as we shall see 1 
hereafter. 

[N. B, Here oecnr three paragraphs touch— i 
ing the construi;tion of cellars and presses, bnti 
they contain no hints which are not already I 
generally reduced to practice in Oalifornia.] 

It is of the very utmost consequence that the I 
crushing and pressing room should he well ven- 
tilated, and kept perfectly clean; the floor laid \ 
with brick or cement, the walls whitewashed 
with lime, the roof lined, and the windows glaz- 

• ed. Every sort of vessel, instrument or utensil 
must be, at any rate during the vintage, fault- 

I lessly clean. It is Jiardly necessary to say that 
the same applies to the cellai' and every vessel '1 

> in it. 



PREPARATION OF THE GRAPES. 



When the grapes have been delivered at the 
enishing room, selected and fi-eed from all de- 
fected ones, they should be reduced to must as 
soon as possible, but under varying circumstan- 
ces, and in different localities, they are submit- 
ted to a previous preparation, which, though 
not always an advantage, is sometimes useful. 
This is known as stripping, the separation of the 
berries from all woody matters, which is com- 
monly called pomace. 

In some co\intries renowned for theii' fine 
■wines, stripping is had recourse to as a general 
role; in others not less famous, it is absolutely 
condemned, and employed only on very excep- 
tional occasions; in others a middle course is 
adopted, the stripping being either partial, to- 
tal or not at all, according to circumstances. 
Results obtained in different countries seem to 
justify these different methods; so there is noth- 
ing absolute in the theory of stripping. The 
discussion of the theory of stripping does not 
enter into my plan, I aim only at pointing out 
certain indications which may prove practically 
useful. 



V/yjCULTI-JfE OF CLAHKT. 



Stripping may prove either naet'iil or iDJu-.j 
h rioiis to the Eernieutation, either chemically oi;'^ 
I mechanically; chemically on account of the na^M 
I ture of the matters supplied to th« must; me»r 
^chanically by reason of the division and Tolum&J 
T \vhioh it makes in tlia fermeuting vessel. 

In France, Germany, and Hungary, wliitsw 
[■■wineB are fermented, as a general rule, aftea 
!• complete separation of tlie beiTies from 
I stalks. In making wnch, the presoneo of pom-') 
I ace during tlie fermentation is neither neci 
I nor useful, but on the contrary prejudicial; bufcl 
I in this instance there is no need of strippin^J 
I Binee the grapes are put through the press jua^fl 
^as they come from the vineyard. The preseno^B 
I or absence of tlie stalks is a tpteation afiecting^ 
I red wines only. 

The stalks, on account of the substancea-B 
I which they contain, may be liable to- supply as 
I considerable amount of support to the fermea-4 
fttation; and from this point of view their utility. J 
I cannot be doubted in the case when grapes o^J 
Ehigh saccharine strength are deficient in nitro-^ 
I genoua matters, acids and salts, as often occurs'^i| 
I in our warmest and best situations. 

On the other hand it might impart a certain 
I amount of acerbity and astringency to wines 
I made from thin, watery musts, which would im- J 
I prove their bouquet and aroma. StiSl, thi»'| 



Si TJXKTLTTME OF CLJZJT- 

^fiist^ssT*^ aoid leiftTe t£>& ^vTDe i>yQ^ axid hush, 
iziLk^fr eare be tkkien iK<t tir* bare it t^ctv long in 
^iDinakCi -wjaii liie must, or if ihe f ermentidoii be 
hxtqsbilDt piv:4<:«ng!&d- or vhen ve 3esii>e to ob- 
tadxi ftU the bodj and color posable. 

The suSlS msT aldo be udeful in the fermoi- 
tstaou of iDi25t? Terv thick ai>d lich in sugar; 
becmse fter leaxe the fenDentzng mass moie 
pcoy^ns MnA. more ace^essible to air. and so pro- 
flfeote its prc^T^es^ 

£]q»eiience has proved that in most cases, 
vin€« made with the stalks are letss liable to go 
vTong and are of greater dnrabilirr: and that 
the roominess which ihev show at first, grad- 
naDj passes off, and eTentnaDT disappears alto- 
gether. 

Some writers on wines attribute this power 
of endnraiiee to the presence of tannin in the 
stalks: others denv the existence of tannin in 
the woody matter of the bnnch of grapes: and 
conTinced of its absence, consider the presence 
of the stalks useless. The chemical nature of 
the stalks has never yet been properly studied; 
still the experiments which I have made up- 
on it, satisfy me that tannin, properly so call- 
ed, does not exist in the stalks of the bunch, 
like it does in the husks and seeds of the grapes. 
In the meantime, though the astringent princi- 



VIXICULTCRE OF CLARET. 




j>le of this part of tlie buncli does not strike tli<P 
per~aalts of irou black, as does that of tlie seed, , 
it by no means follows tliat it may not exercise . 
a preserratiTe power in the wine, analagous to. •■ 
tJiat which true taunin does, undoubtedly. 

From all tlie above, we may conclude tha^ 
there is no need of laying it down as a rnle,.l 
that stripping should always be adopted in mak- 
ing pure, genuine red wine; but rather that v 
should pay attention to the condition and na- 
ture of the grapes, and to the quality of thoj 
wine we desh'e to make, and guide our opew 
tiona accordingly. 

If the grapes of their own nature, and on aw 
count of the conditions of tlie season, are veij 
ripe and sugary, so as to yield a Teiy densaf 
must, stripping wiU be out uf plaee. 

If they are waterj-, deficient of i 
flat-tasted and insipid, even in this case ths I 
stalks will help to give bouquet and aroma. 

If they taste harsh and notably acid, it is de- ' 
sirable to make a partial stripping, and occ^ j 
sionally a total. 

If owing to exceptional circumstances, it i 
shotUd be evident before the vintage, that a I 
large portion of the beiTies would have to be 1 
rejected, iu this instance it becomes desirable 
to make a partial stripping. 

Of course in practice many circumstancsB fl 



36 VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

may occur to necessitate a modification of these 
precepts. It may, for example, happen that 
the vintage may be so very abundant as to ex- 
ceed the capacity of our fermenting vats, in 
which case stripping would be useful by reduc- 
ing considerably the volume of material to be 
dealt with. The construction of the fermenting 
vats calls for attention also. If they be covered 
the stalks do no harm in most instances; on the 
other hand, when the fermentation is made in 
uncovered ones, the stalks are useful in form- 
ing ** the caj),'' which rises to the surface of 
the must. 

When our aim is to obtain a soft, velvety 
wine, or one somewhat sweet, stripping wholly 
or partially is desirable; if, on the contrary, we 
desire a rough, harsh wine that will lay hold of 
the tongue and throat, then not only no strip- 
ping, but prolonged fermentation on the skins 
and stalks. Rapid fermentation, and brief con- 
tact of the stalks with the must impart to it no 
excessive roughness or astringency. 

In view of what has been said, stripping 
should be had recourse to or not, wholly or 
partially, according as we note the various con- 
ditions of the state and nature of the grapes, 
and the quality of the wine we desire to make. 

Stripping may be done in many ways. The 
most simple is to use a wooden rake upon an 



vis'iari/ri'Rn: of vlaret. zT\ 

luliueil plane overtho ci'iislior, wliioli will eaa- J 
|-ily detach the berries. This plan has the ad-! 
Jvantage of taking iiff only the rij»e berries, leav- 1 
ling the green ones adbering to the stalks. 
rThere ivre many forms of pieves which nan be 1 
I made to answer tho purpose well. As the 1 
) bunches are worked backwards or forwards o 

1 wires, the berries drop through the iiitei'^1 
r Btieos and are then crushed. On the Dourol 
they employ huge frames with wire bottoms I 
which they call encnnrjalliud'-h-as (breakers up), 
because they separate the refuse or stalks. In J 
Burgundy, ivhere stripping is rarely practiced, 

■ even partially, they employ a sort of wicker 
I BieTB placed over a small barrel, into which the 
I berries fall. It matters little what method is 

I adopted; the most simple, convenient and the' ■ 
I cheapest, is the best. 

Another preparatory operation, and indispen- 
I sable in making red wine, of whatever nature it' 
Lmay be, is the crushing of the grapes so as to j 
I get out of tlie berries whatever matters they I 
I contain, wh' tber liquid or solid. The method f 

■ {allowed by m, of having the gi'apea trodden I 
I'ty men with bare feet, offers great advantage 
Lm nearly every instance, when the work is done 

I with necessary cleanliness, which is indispensa- 
r ble to keep the wiije from deteriorating in its 
I after stages. The pressure exerted by men's 



38 VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

feet is enough to crush the berries, without 
smashing the seeds or the stalks; whi]e the 
commotion produced in the mass by the alter- 
nate action of the feet, during the operation, 
forces into it plenty of air to start and continue 
the fermentation . 

In most cases when we start in to make gen- 
uine natural wines, it is quite sufficient that the 
berries be thoroughly crushed, in order that the 
must may be set free, and that contact may be 
maintained during fermentation, between the 
liquid and solid portions. When, however, we 
seek to make the generous, strong wine of the 
Douro, long and violent treading, is both useful 
and necessary, to enrich the must, to aerate it, 
and to ensure a more active fermentation; but 
this process does not hold good for making gen- 
uine wines for regular consumption. 

In making white or liqueur wines, there is no 
need of treading the fruit; it is enough to crush 
them with the press and collect the must in the 
fermenting vessels. In this way alone can 
bright pnle white wines be obtained, like those 
of Germany and France. In any other way, 
how limited soever be the contact of the must 
with the stalks and skins, the wines acquire a 
yellow color, more or less intense, due in part to 
the coloring matter of the skins, and partly to 
the oxidation of certain matters yielded by the 
stalks. 



VINICULTDRE OF CLAIIET. 



|N. B. Machiuery now used as a substitute 
for treadiug seem to lijive failed bitlifi'to to ef- 
fect the requisite aeration of tlie must, without 
recourse to more or loss efficient means, noneof 
which seem nearly equal to working with the 
feet. J. I. B.l 

To resume : stripping or no stripping, what is 
indispensable, is to efl'ect hy treading, ci-ushing, 
or by auj other method, a perfectly fluid and 
homogeneous must, and to promote contact 
among all its parts, whether fluid or solid, so 
that fermentation may go ou uuifonuly, and the 
reactions, necessary to a perfect wine, may be 
established. 

In this, as well as in all other operations ia I 
wine-making, the utmost neatness and cleanli-'l 
ness must be observed, both in casks and uten* f 
sils; and must be moat rigorously enforced < 
the men employed in treading the fruit. The 
slightest neglect in these particulars, may be the 
means of having gerflis of disease introduced 
into the wine, which will eventually develop 
, and greatly injure or destroy it. 



FERMENTATION. 



Tiih o|*frration-s which I have described hith- 
tfp ^Tf: only preparatory to the wine making, or 
the tran.Hfonning of mu-st into wine. Wine, ae- 
c/>rdirijr to the common acceptation of the word, 
JM the liquid resulting from what we call rin- 
on.^, -Hpiritnons or alcoholic fermentation of the 
j nice of grapes. 

H<;eing that vinons fermentation is an indis- 
p^^risable condition in making wine, it is impor- 
tant that we should have clear ideas of the cir- 
cnrnstances which favor or prejudice the forma- 
tion of it, in order to properly appreciate the 
value and importance of the practical rules 
which are to guide us in making wine. 

It is not my intention to go extensively into 
the doctrine or theory of fermentation, as ac- 
ca])Ui(l by modem science. I shall limit myself 
to pointing out only such fundamental facts as 
are necessary to understand the rules and prac- 
tical ]}r()('AiHHOH. 

Alcoholic fermentation is a transforming 
niovenient, T)n)duced in liquid containing sugar, 
eiilicr natural or artificial, in presence of one 
j)articnlar ferment. 



VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 41 J 

The ferment itHeli is an organized aud liviu 
being, which for its uouriahment and d6yeJoi>- J 
ment consumes a part of the sugar, transform- I 
ing the rest into carbonic acid, which passes in- 
to the air in the state of gas, and into alcohol I 
aud othei' principles, which remain in solution | 
and constitute tlie spirituous liquid. 

Alcoholic fermentation is not the only phe- 
nomenon of the kind with which we are ao- I 
quainted. There are indeed several ilifferent I 
sppcies of fermentations, all of which appear, f 
I like tliis, to be corresponding actions of a vital I 
liorce. In all of them, one or more living be- * 
lings, vegetable or animal, excite in the liquids, 
I or mediums in which they exist, through the 
Lexercise of their vital powers, chemical reac- 
^tions and mudificatious, in which are formed, 
I at the cost of the existing products, other pro- 
Idncts of a quite diifereut composition. Betting 
L aside, however, tlieso diverse fermentations, 
I vre will direct attention for a while to that one 
lirhich most concerns us in wine making; be- 
1 'cause it is essential and indispousable thereun- 
We call it the alcoholic fermentation, in 
I which, as just said, the sugar is transformed 
by the ferment into alcohol, and a few other 
products, 

The conditions essential to produce those ef- 
fects are the following: 



42 VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

Ist. A watery liquid containing a certain 
(juantity of sugar in solution. 

2n(l. Tlie presence of air. 

3rd. Ferment already formed, or nitroge- 
nous matter of the nature of what chemists call 
alhuudnoid^ on account of the analogy of its 
composition to that of the white of an egg, and 
which is capable of affording nourishment to 
the ferment. 

4th. A moderate temperature, 15 to 20 centi- 
grade. 

If we make a not very strong solution of su- 
gar in water, and add a little ferment to it, 
whether boer-veast, or wine lees, or in their 
stead the albuminoid matter mentioned above, 
it will after a while enter into fennentation, 
which will show itself by becoming turbid, by 
offorvesoonoe caused by the evolution of ear- 
bonio acid gas, and by a perceptible rise of 
temperature. During this fermentation, the 
sugar disappeai*s, and we shall then lind in the 
liipiid alcohol, or spirit of wine, a little fluid 
substance, called qhiccrhu\ and a crvstallizable 
acid — the siuvhiic. If the nitrogenous matter 
or ferment had been supplied in sufficient 
ipiantity. there would be found, when fermenta- 
tion had ceased, a pn\»ipitate containing the 
onrjuiio beiuir formed duriuir fermentation. 
Wlien it becomes still, the liquid graduallT 
clears itself. 



VINICULTURS OF ClAHET. 



43 



Now, if the quantity of forment or nitroge- 
pons matters, at tlie expense of which the traus- 
Sbrmation is carried or, were sufReient, the 
^lole of the sngar would haTS tlisappeared : if, 
;e other hand, the ferment was not snfii- 
isieiit, and the litiuid deficient in nitrogenous 
batters, a portion of the sngar wonld remain 
undeeompofied. If the nitrogenons matters 
were in excess, the surplus wonld Ite fonnd in 
the lees. 

I What happens in an artificial solution of sn- 
^r, girea -an an idea of what takes place in 
liqnids containing natural sugar, such as the 
^ust of ripe grapes, when placed under similar 
conditions. The must of ripe giapea contains 
water, sugar, and both acid and neuti'al vegeta- 
ble matters, and mineral and vegetable salts. 
Roughly estimated, we may say the water of 
the nmat will amount to 80 per 100; the angar 
iay vary from 15 to 30 per cent., and rarely 
pore; and the rest of the matters rise uot un- 
Tequently to as mnch a-s 30 per cent, of the to- 
\ti\ weight of the must. 

' Among the neutral matters, there is always 

Bresent a portion of nitrogenized matter necea- 

Ky for the life and propagation of the inferior 

1 which sets the alcoholic fermentation 

!1 motion; and'among the salts, bi-tartarate of 

, which is met with afterwards as a de- 

wit from the «ine. 



44 VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

In order to cause fermentation in a solution 
of sugar in water, it is necessary to add ferment, 
or yeast, to it, or nitrogenous, and to place it 
in contact with air, at the temperature mention- 
ed above; but in order that the must of grapes 
should enter into fei-mentation, all that is re- 
quired is to leave it at the temperature referred 
to in contact with air for some time. It looks 
as if in this case the fermentation took place 
spontaneously. In the theory generally receiv- 
ed at the present time, of the vinous or alco- 
holic fermentation of the juice of ripe grapes, it 
is admitted that the germs of the organism, 
which develop in the liquid, as long as fermen- 
tation goes on, are carried in the air, like 
other germs, for instance of mould, of oidium, 
and a thousand other vegetable and animal or- 
ganisms, which we see developing every day in 
circumstances favorable to their growth. 

These germs, finding the sugar and nitrogen- 
ized or albuminoid matters ready dissolved in 
the water of the must, and under favorable con- 
ditions of temperature, develop, as if in a fertile 
field, and thrive and propagate in the liquid at 
the cost of the sugar and nitrogenous matter. 
The sugar, by yielding part of its elements to 
the ferment, is transformed into carbonic acid 
gas, which escapes in the well known bubbles, 
into alcohol, into glycerine and succinic acid, 



VINICULTURE OF CLARST. 



Iifrliich remain dissolved in the liquid along witli 
other principles, neutral, acid, saline and aro- 
matic, which constitnte the wiue. Tlie nitro- 
genous matter serves as plastic noiiiiidiiuent to I 
4^e organism, which at the eud of the fermeu- j 
tation, and when all the siigur has been broken' , 
op, settles down with the solid mattei-a, which 
were held in suspension in the must, or rises as i 
scum to the surface. 

Bigorous experiments, and which any scien- | 
tific chemist can readily verify, convinced Pas- 
teur that 100 parts of pui-e grape sugar yield 
by fermentation the following: 



Cubouia Aoid ■Kl.eT 

Aloohol 48.48 

Olycerine 3.85 

finccinic Acid O.Gl 

BUIUt yielded to the ferment. 1.03 

lOO.CO 



^^^fiof the must which goes to form the fermenta- 
tion of the wine; and ns tlie amount of it is 
greater or less, so will be the alcoholic strength 

^of the wine. Nevertheless all other substances 

L^ntained in the tissues of the grapes, in ttie 

^ns, in the pulp, in the seeds, and even in the 

talks, contribute to modify the quality of the 

rjiquid resulting after fermeiitatiou. Tims we 




46 VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

learn that wine is not a simple, but a very com- 
plex liquor, the qualities of which depend on 
the nature and richness of the grapes of which 
it is made, and on the circumstances under which 
it is made; for these may be such as to insure 
its keeping and improvement, or accelerate its 
ruin. 

The above brief exposition of the theoretical 
principles, seems to me sufficient for the under- 
standing of what occurs during the transforma- 
tion of must into wine; and to awaken the at- 
tention of the vintner to all the circumstances 
and conditions surrounding the operation. 

We note two different methods of wine mak- 
ing. It is done either by separating the must 
from both stalks, and skins, and seeds, and this 
is the simple way in which French and German 
wines are made ; or the fermentation is conduct- 
ed in the must, together with the whole or a 
portion of the solid parts of the grapes, as is 
universally the case in making red wine. 

In the first instance vinification is very sim- 
ple. The grapes, picked and clean, are crushed 
right away and the must collected; the pressing 
made and the juice added to the must, and put 
at once into the vessels in which it has to fer- 
ment: the bung-hole being left open for the es- 
cape of the carbonic acid gas, and scum which 
brings over the part of the ferment which rises. 



VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 47 

The must contains in itself all that is requisite 
for making those wines. During the crushing 
and pressing, the air deposits in it the germs of 
alcoholic fermentation, and by being brought 
into intimate contact with it, prepares it for 
the subsequent reactions about to take place. 
Thenceforth, under suitable temperature, fer- 
mentation is established, and continues of it- 
self, and gives no further trouble, since the car- 
bonic acid gas, which is evolved, protects it 
from contact with the air bj forming as it were, 
a gaseous atmosphere over it. 

In the second case, in which, for the produc- 
tion of red wines, it is indispensable that the 
must be fermented in contact with the skins, 
chiefly that the alcohol, as it forms, may dis- 
solve out the coloring matters which have been 
formed on their inner surfaces, the operation 
becomes complicated, and to be successfully 
conducted demands many and serious precau- 
tious. 



WINE MAKING IN PORTUGAL. 



First of all, let us take a view of the method, 
in corriDion use in Portugal, of making wine in 
nUme tanks (lagares dej[>edra). 

Generally the grapes are not stripped, but 
are put into the tank (lagar) , spread out and 
bedded, till it is a little more than two-thirds 
full, in order to leave sufficient space for the 
cap when it rises, so that it may not run over. 
As soon as all the grapes are in the lagar, the 
men with bare feet and legs, well washed, go 
in and begin to crush and tread the berries, 
treading first with one foot and then the other. 
This work continues for a sufficient number of 
hours, and, if the temperature be favorable, 
fermentation sets in, and may be observed in 
the appearance of bubbles of gas that form on 
the surface, by the increase of temperature and 
by the wine-smell, which begins to be percepti- 
ble. At the same time the empty skins and the 
stalks keep rising to the surface, lifted by the 
gas caused by the fermentation, and, if treading 
be interru})ted for a time, the surface of the must 
will bo covered by a thick cap of stalks and 
skins. Fermentation goes on more rapidly in 



VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 49 

upper part near the cap, than in the lower, 
'here there is simply must. The more active 
chemical reactioos, and of vital functions, 
'hich are correlative to chemical action, are 
alwiiyfi, and under all circumstances, accompa- 
nied by elevation of temperature. Through the 
labor of ti-eading, the solid and liquid portions 
■of the grapes .become intimately mixed, and by 
te continuous movement of the whole mass in 
lontact with air, the air penetrates every parti- 
cle of it, depositing in it the germs of ferment 
Seating in it, at the same time supplying the 
oxygen which appears to be indispensable to 
the development of the ferment, as well as to 
le oxidation of the coloring matters, and prob- 
ibly other reactions but little known. When 
treading is finished, and the cap has formed 
over the surface of the liquid, the air acts ouly 
on the porous surface of the cap, more particu- 
larly if the tank be very full, and an atmosphere 
of carbonic acid gas eaunot form, and remain 
tranquil over it, to protect it. This contact of 
air with the cap, if continued for a considera- 
ble length of time, may cause, as we shall soon 
see, very ruinous" reactions. 

When the fermentation has been regular, and 
made under favorable conditions, after some 
hours of tumultuous action, it slackens; the 
'cap" begins to dry and cool; to crack and sep- 




50 VINICULTURE OF CLARET, 

arate from the covers, and to show signs of 
sinking. At this point the wine is generally 
considered made; its smell has become vinous, 
its taste somewhat astringent, the sugar has 
disappeared, its density much below that of the 
must, and nearly that of water. The time has 
now arrived for drawing off the wine, complete- 
ly free from any part of the cap, into clean vats 
ready to receive it. As soon as the tank is 
empty the cap is pressed, and the pressings 
added to the rest of the wine. 

The above is the regular order of operating. 
We will now examine the drawbacks and ad- 
vantages which it presents in the case of ordi- 
nary wines of consumption, or more properly, 
genuine wines for daily use. 

Considered apart from surrounding circum- 
stances, the whole operation is quite simple. 
Into one and the same tank, the gi-apes are 
emptied as they arrive from the vineyard; her© 
they are trodden; here they are worked and 
aerated; hero they are fermented; and here 
the pressing of the pomace is done. If this 
work has been well done, with all cleanli- 
ness ; if the weather was all that could be desir- 
ed; if the fermentation went on quickly and 
regularly without interruptions, and finished in 
a short time, not taking more than two or three 
days, we may conclude that the wine made will 



VINICULTUllE OF CLARET. 



prove as good as we have any right to expect, ■ 
regard being had to the gi-apes and the year. 

But supposing the fruit to have been gather- < 
ed iu cold damp weather, the chilluiesa of tlie | 
stones of the tank will be added to the chill of I 
I the air; and still more, the large open sui'face i 
I of the tank will retard alcoholic fermentation; | 
I and then there may be seen in spots that glu-/ 
I tinous, sticky product of bad fermentation, sol 
I injurious to the wine. 

Supposing the alcoholic fermentation to have 1 
t been established; if, for the above or other J 
\ causes, it be much prolonged, it slackens, 
I fltops, and becomeH interrupted, contact with 
I the air sets up other ferment« in the "cap," 
I chiefly tlie ncettr, which converts the alcohol 
already formed, into vinegar; or may be, the 
I putrid fermentation, in which vibriones and 
I other inferior animalcules are generated. In 
I whichever case, whether the cap be pressed 
I down through the liquid to increase fermenta- 
■ tion, or to obtain more color and body, oi' 
whether we simply add tlie pressings of the 
piimaoe to the rest of the wine, we cannot help 
' introducing destructive germs, which sooner or 
L later will slkow their effects to the great injury 
[ of quality and keeping power. 

Again, supposing the fermentation good and 
regular; since the surface of the cap is large. 



J 



62 



VlNianiTURB OF CLARET. 



which is exposed to the air, and thi 
ture high, ntjt uiifrequeutly as high as 85 to 
Fahrenheit, a portion of the alcohol and aro- 
matic principles is lost by evaporation in preju- 
dice of the richness of the wine. Injuries of 
this kindai-e always to be regretted, but more 
especially in the instance of weak wines, Of 
course, when the wine intended for brandy, any 
loss of alcohol is a dead loss. 

The tastes of cousnmers and the exigencies 
of commerce, require very frequently full bod- 
ied, highly colored wines. To satisfy these re- 
quirements, it is necessarj' to keep the must 
mixed with the pomace a long time. Now, for 
reasons already assigned, tanks (laijareB) are 
wholly unsuitable. 

Grapes extremely ripe, very rich in sugar, 
and yielding very thick, dense must, such as 
are met with in the beat localities of the Douro, 
make good wine in those stone tanks, for they 
require excessive treading and agitating in or- 
der to render the misture of Rolid and fluid 
portions perfect; also that the air may pene- 
trate it, and facilitate the reactions, and to 
cause the fermentaiiou to proceed with ease and 
energy. Bnt wine so made is too rich and too 
full-bodied, and only becomes perfect after a, 
length of time, on which account it is necessary 
to dose it with brandy, to protect it against 



)W^™ 



VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 53 

jurious fermentations. This dose of brandy is 
put into it when it is vatted, or in the month of 
March, before the temperature of the air is suf- 
ficiently warm to set up fresh fermentation. 
No such process can be used in making natural 
wines for use as food, which should not be 
highly charged with flavoring matters, but light 
and dry, and which should be fit for use in 
shorter time. 



METHODS OF THE MEDOC AND BUR- 
GUNDY RECOMMENDED. 



A method of wine-making, approaching as 
nearly as possible to that in use on the Medoc, 
by which the excellent wines of Bordeaux are 
made; or the Burgundy method, which also 
produces wines of great merit, seems to me to 
be perfectly well suited to the larger portion of 
our viticultural centres, where table wines of a 
superior order are possible to be made. 

In both the above named viticultural centres 
of France, great wooden vats, holding from 900 
to 4000 gallons, in the shape of truncated 
cones, are in use. These vessels have their 
bottoms considerably broader than the tops. 
The grapes, whether stripped or not, in whole 
or in part only, are first crushed and trodden, 
either by crushing machines, or by men's feet. 
The must and skins, etc., are then put into 
these vats till they are conveniently full, leav- 
ing 12 or 15 inches, to avoid any overflow dur- 
ing fermentation. This filling of the vats 
should be done with the least possible delay, 
and never allowed to exceed one day, in order 
to prevent the fermentation, when it has once 



VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 



55 I 



I begun, fi'om being interrupted, for it always \ 
I injuree the. wine. 

As t'eimentatinn commences the pomace rises, 
I the same as in the case of the tanks, and | 
I iorms a layer on the top which thev call the , 
"cap." Carbonic acid gas is thrown out in i 
I'torrents; ami the motioii of the liquid, due to , 
I .the reactions taking place in it, becomes at first | 
1; tumultuous, then after a while subsides, and 
Cafter the lajise of a longer or shorter space of 
f time, ceases entirely; and the pomace which 
jjormed the cap, cools, contracts, and begins to 
Pfall. The wine is now made. 

During the period of tumultuous fermenta- 
tion, the wine makers of Burgundy, especially 
those who employ open vats, submerge the 
pomace in the must once or twice a day, to 
equalize the fermentation, but more particular- 
ly in order to obtain, a maximum of coloring 
matter in the wine. 
The above is the simple and regular order of 
terafing, but it is always liable to the same 
3 1 noted in the case of tanks, so far 
B eonceruR contact with the air. 
If all the circumstances ai'e favorable, the 
perfectly ripe, the weather imiformly 
rn, dry and clear, fermentation sets in im- 
jnediately, runs its course rapidly, and at the 
i of three or four days, is llnislied and the 



56 VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

wine made. Under such conditions, the mix- 
ing of the cap through the must, in order to 
equalize the fermentation and obtain more col- 
oring matter for the wine, can in no way be in- 
jurious to the wine. But when the state of the 
weather is less favorable, when fermentation is 
retarded, and evil fermentation shows itself on 
the cap, as the acetic, or putrescent fermenta- 
tion, t]ien become apparent the drawbacks to 
this method. 

To obviate these dangers, some wine makers 
have, since a long time, adopted plans of cover- 
ing the vats to protect them from contact with 
the air during fermentation. Many plans have 
been recommended and put in practice, to con- 
duct fermentation in closed vats; and in this, 
as in other cases, there appears a good deal of 
exaggeration. Absolute covering, hermetically 
sealing the vats, is impracticable and absurd, 
for there must be an escape for the carbonic 
acid gas, or else it would burst the vat. A per- 
fect covering, with a safety valve, and with a 
tube for the escape of gas, dipping into a vessel 
of water, if on one hand it overcomes the con- 
tact of ail, without risk of bursting the vat, it 
on the other hand exerts a pressure on the fer- 
menting fluid, and checks its regular progress, 
not without risk of injuring the quality of the 
wine, and also at the same time increasing the 



ViSICULTURK OF CLARET. 



67 



|«08t of production. Au ortliuary wooileu cov- 
eriDg provided with holes for the escape of gas, 
and just laid over the fevmentiiig vat, or even 
loose boards, covered with matting in a similar 
way, as soon as fermentation has fairly set in, 
presents no inconvenienoe, and completely sat- 
isfies all requirements. 

(On a supposition that tlje rapid dispersion of 
earbonic acid gas, assisted by the elevated tem- 
perature of the fermenting must, would cause a 
pore loss of alcohol and aromatic elements, dif- 
ferent plans have been suggested for condens- 
ing and retaining these elements. Snch wei-e 
the old appai'alus of Gervais and the modern 
one of Minard, The first one proved to be 
practically useless, and was abimdoned. As to 
the other, but few comparative experiments 
have been made, and while some consider it 
highly advantageous, others of not less authori- 

»irf declare that its advantages are not an equiv- 
alent for the trouble it causes. For myself, I 
neither advise nor condemn its use. 

In view of what has been explained, I con- 
sider the best course for our people to adopt in 
making natural, genuine, nuti'itious, table 
rwines, is to ferment in moderate sized vata 
L{ta&eiros), simply covered. 

To recapitulate — the grapes clean, and free 
&om imperfect berries, stripped fi'om (lie stalks 
3a 



:tan? i,v^lrtr^e AK">t* lidtS.^ ic^irrL. should be thoi^ 
orcc^^-^ :r\\^,^r:: ::^ Ur irt^t. ^^ i« a suitable 
tuifcsf^^tti vn: Kitx'i. vuhkted « lir side of or over 
ii«? ^■*5. s>,^ :ii3 libr .-r-xsi^^ nufiss HKtT mn in, 
zrta::! :: >s ^:ii:r: Hi ,'i: I? iaj,*i«r5> iri heii^ foil. 
nLb> ^v.ri /c^ii.-:' tc r^f ircw- 5x the sliortest 
ralje ^xvsscKi;- >»," lijw :ii," '»:« >2*ri£»i he fcft to 
^»^ 5aV'%:7*»c ,va> XT-iljc-vl joii TTfriishfA. The 
i^^xi ix^:jK Tv" .I*. >^ Tc arr i\u joii -i*:r-.««^y mix 

5:rTi ju:».1 i'.^T- ;: ill litf Jt:rt.i;£ rc^siitfif : 
TWtic»rj,"ij u*e>. ,-»;iwst,-il. .ia»i fist? Vju* ji^otHurs t» 

"■ ~ ■* 

^ iw,s5<wr- Xi: CSS v-:#^wiau: uiil ▼itfit baBF^Hd^r 

% • X 1 »^>;.» .iif t,= £* i : I jH ' r«U iitlv' tl f til ti •▼.Ul»i i$> 

>-u\if*^ X K -i iiC«5 b'^ >Ai\i Uu.rt, :iiti vnssQmiiiiHiJl 



' ani 



VINICULTURE OP CLARET 

lomewhat suft, may be drawn uff wlieu the iu- 
meut marks 2, 3 or 4 degrees above zero, 
« to admit of stow fermentation in the cask. 
Before drawing the wiue out of the ferment- 
vats, it is a cnstom in wine countries, which 
ploy the method juat described, to stir the 
lap through the wiue and mix it well, so as not 
lose what lia» bean soaking the skins and 
latters forming the cap, always richer in body 
[^and alcohol, with the rest of the liquid in which 
the fermentation had been slower. There is 
nothing wrong aboiit this practice; it is rather 
advantageous, when the condition of the ca]i is 
satisfaetoiy; that is, when no injurious feraien- 
tation has taken place in it; and when the smell 
and taste of it are plainly those of wine. 

On account of the fact that the most perfect 
id profitable way of making red wiues is to 
irment on the skins, many writers upon wine 
making have recommended special plans for 
keeping them submerged in the must during 
fermentation. This is effected by a grate, or a 
second covering bored fiill of holes, which can 
be fixed in the fermenting vat at some couven- 
ient depth. This, of course, will arrest the 
ins, etc., as they rise, and allow free passage 
ir the liquid, and for tlie escape of gas. Some 
limple mechanical contrivance to secure it in 
Its place against being lifted up by the pomace 



60 VINICULTURE OF CLARET, 

will be needed, but can be easily provided. 
The permanent depression of the pomace below 
the surface, yields excellent results, and saves 
labor, as to the quality of the wine. This idea 
has been amplified by a proposition to use sev 
eral such perforated lids or grates so as to dis- 
tribute the pomace as equally as possible 
through the fermenting must. Though not yet 
in common use, this idea is being carried into 
practice at the present time. 

In places where the grapes ripen well, and 
where the climate is favorable for a prompt and 
complete fermentation in a short space of time, 
open fermenting vats, or only slightly covered, 
with the pomace kept below the surface, may 
be safely used. But when we cannot reckon 
upon the completion of fermentation within 
the short interval of three or four days, it is 
safer and better to use the covered vats describ 
ed above, those that protect the cap from the 
air, and allow the escape of the formed gas 
and check the cooling of the fermenting mass. 

In the making of fine, soft, delicate red wines 
for the table, the vinification in (balseiros) mod- 
erate sized vats is the safest; but when we treat 
of ordinary wines of consumption, the process 
admits of much modification, for then we may 
use the huge vessels with wide top openings to 
receive the must and pomace. In this instance 



VINirUr.TURE OF CLARET. 



61 1 



the grapes are pi-essed in tlie (laijar) tank, 
' on a anitable beni'li or platform, and the mnafe.J 
and pomace run into the Tsssel till it is more'J 
than two thirds fiiH, leaving plenty of space fofi 
the cap not to reach the onter edge of the open-J 
ing. Under these conditions, the fennentation I 
will he slower; but since the accumulation of I 
I carbonic acid gas in the upper part of the veg- , 
I sel impedes the contact with atmospheric air, i 
^ those injurious fermentations cannot occui', and J 
the fermentation may go on for a longer time ] 
without any other ilrawback besides the in- 
crease of the body and harilness of the wine, 
matters which might be reduced by a previous A 
partial stripping of tlie grapes. 

It very often happens that the conditions of 

the weather are such as to so interfere with the 

alcoholic fermentation as to prevent its ready 

development. In most instances it will have 

f to be assisted with artificial warmth. The i 

t readiest way is the cautious warming of a por- j 

\ tioD of the must, taking particular care lest it ] 

' should get a bad taste. This heated must, 

I never beyond 175^ Fahrenheit, is intimately 1 

[ mixed with that in the vat. It is possible to 

[■devise other methods of warming the musts, 

I but all appear more or less risky. When there 

i is at hand a heap of pomace quite sweet and 

\ fresh from aroceiit]jressing.andnotaa yet alter- 



62 VINICULTURE OP CLARET. 

ed by the action of the air, we may with adyan. 
tage mix it with the must, and being warm, it 
will directly set up fermentation. Undoubt- 
edly this is one of the best means of pro- 
moting fermentation. But suppose we have 
no pomace, in the condition just stated, 
we can supply its place in the following 
manner: place a small cask in a place in the 
house where the temperature is over 62^ F., and 
start fermentation in a quantity of selected and 
well crushed grapes, which should be in some 
relation to the size of the vat which we have to 
warm; for example, for a vat of 1100 gallons, it 
will suffice to warm the must to the above men- 
tioned heat of from 50 to 100 gallons of must. 
Then when the fermentation has become very 
active in this warmed must it should be added to 
the large body, and the fermentation will go on 
with regularity. Since alcoholic fermentation 
needs a moderate temperature, higher than 62^ 
F., and knowing that any circumstance which 
checks and reduces it must be injurious, it be- 
comes a matter of necessity that the fermenting 
cellars should be kept in good repair, and pro- 
tected again^ changes easily caused by cur- 
rents of cold air. It is, however, only proper 
to observe that this arrangement is inseparable 
from one great inconvenience, viz : injury to the 
health of the workmen, who have to labor in 
cellars where vinous fermentation is going on. 



VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 



Ciirbonie achl gas, evolycsil so abiiiidantly 
during fermentatiou , is u deadly, irrespirabli 
gas, which is followed lij itaphfKin and dentlfi 
when breathed pure, and frequently proves fa-' 
ta! when mixed witli 20 per cent, of ordinary 
air. Accidents from this cause are by no nseans 
uncommon in large wineries. In onr wine cel- 
lars (Portugal), where there is ofteu only too 
much TOntilation, where people are continually 
coming in and out, such accidents are hardly 
ever met with. Still, under any circumstances, 
it is no difficult matter to dispose of any cause' 
for serious danger. 

Carbonic acid gas, which, through being, 
colorless, we do not notice in the air, is much' 
heavier thaii ordinary air, and on this account 
when not mixed through the air will occupy the 
lowest stratum, forming a sort of bed of great- 
r or leaser thickness. This circumstance ac- 
counts for how it has sometimes happened that 
men who have gone into those huge fermenting 
vessels have felt no inconvenience so long as 

J their heads were above the top, but when they. 
stooped they fell asphyxiated, and would have 

I died if assistance had not been on hand. The 
same might happen outside of the fermenting 

I vats, and on the floor of the room, when first 

■ going in, in the mornijig, when the fermentation 
had been very brisk during tlie night, with the 



■at J 



M r/A wn rrsE •*/" clabet. 

dvx^rs AUvl wiiuU^ws ill oloi$ril. Moitp danger- 
oas >^ul wv>u\i K* ^hf? oas*? if the fennenting 
nx*ux >*erv- :4 vvr,Ar. or :* r»ai below the leTel 
of nh^^ >ur::^vV. Tfeet!^.^ u^niergr^.^and fermenting 
n.vcti> >hnili Iv :iibc>oI'i^eIv ^.t^ndemned: for, 
Altshocixb- '5 taciv iv ^V555>:b*^ to ^<ej rid of car- 
bociio ioii ^:i:> bv rz-e rL< :: I:^5r-w:iter. ret it 
caa'S**tv :r\^::b> Aro,l :s v^rry liabl-r z*? b«e neglect- 
«?a. \V'•^,>-^ ^c<;^ :5c * :s oc i irrifci level «idi or 
r^i::<e*-l iCvvK^ :1>* i,va:xl r^nv>e isz.o iilEeultvin 
:p^c::: jl;^ r*L',l ,^: •^.^ v^ircv-cic i^'j.l ^a>.. for then it 
v*:iir ^t^ ;\vvV.> <'»Wy ,^^j::, ■:?: i* ^n^v faJI bv its 
.>.,ifT- -v^^^^'x:. W Vvj -a^r^-rt >^ive •••^ :?-^ i:2.tft> those 

t»^nirr.r.. ■^M^,^^-, ;: xs iS:ivs ,lr:t>inci? j^? be Terr 

^aeci**? ,NT ^•.^c .: >> sare r:r Tin?a :io ^,^ ntio 
r:i«:«N«? jtrriff ^vr^ 'Srv:;t:rj>»e .: i >ici?3e<.: :a^er will 



:n^?ii>c'',ii. ""-V T.:i '-.i^r \v^ *c i^^K?e< ui« J^ 4 bii*i- 



VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 



which I have pointed tmt. watching assiduously ' 
the progress of fermentation, and vatting at the 
time and with the care which I have indicated, 
we may caUuilate with all but certainty on hav- 
ing as good and as sound a wine as we have any i 
right to expect from the quality of the gi-apes,' I 
and the character of the season, and the st^to | 
of weather during the vintage. 

The vintage made with dispatch, regnlaritj* I 
and neatness — that is, so as to fill one ferment^ J 
ing vat each day; with separation or mixing 6&m 
the kinds of grapes in conformity with the kinil' J 
of wine intended to he made; with the moat 
scrupulous exclusion of every faulty berry, 
whether rotten, shriveled or green; with must 
perfectly prepared by crushing and aerating; 
with previoiiH and absolute cleanliness of every _ 
1 or implement whicli is to come in contact \ 
with the must; with a temperature in the fer- 
menting room uniformly somewhat above 60^ 
V. ; protection of the must from contact with 
the air as soon as tumultuous fermentation has 
sek^n; care in keeping the fermentation regu- ■ 
lar, with the pomace (skins, etc.) below theJ 
surface whicli is to be preferred to forcing it 
down daily; and finally, vigilant attention to 
the progress of the fermentation with the view 
to drawing of the wine when the tumiiltuous 
fermentation has ceased, and by this means 



66 VISirVLTURE OF CLARET. 

aToiding the inconTeDienees of a prolonged in- 
fusion — such, generally speaking, are the means 
to be adopted when we endeaTor to make good 
wine. 

It is not alwavs an easy matter to determine 
exactly the best moment for drawing oflF the 
wine into casks. The hydrometer, or any oth- 
er instrument that we use, can give no more 
than approximate indications. Taste, smell and 
general appearance form the best criterion for 
men accustomed to judge of a particular variety 
of wine. In the majority of cases, but not in 
all, the disappearance of the sugar, the smell 
and taste of wine, a certain astringency and 
roughness, the color which the wine ought to 
have, and the formation of small bubbles on 
the sides of a white porcelain or silver cup, 
when shaken briskly in it, are almost certain 
signs that the wine is made. By this, however, 
I do not mean that it is completely finished, 
nor that the sugar has all been broken up; it is 
not desirable that it should be, because the slow 
after fermentation in the cask has its own ad- 
vantages. 

Since the new wine is alwavs turbid, it is use- 
ful to filter some through filter-paper and view 
it in a gla<s, the better to observe its color and 
some others of its qualities. 

The above indications of the tumultuous fer- 



VINICULTURE OP CLARET. 



^B mentation biivin^ ceftSQil, are accompanied by 
aiiotlier, whicli by many is considered alone 
aiifficieut — the sinking of the cap. During tu- 
multuons fermentation it was raised above tlie 
original level, but as soon as this movement 
ceases and the evolntion of gas slackens, and 
the temperatm-e, raised by cliemical reactions. 

Kills, it begins to contract and sink towards its 
rigiiial level. 
In alcoholic fermentation there are two dis- 
I fciDct periods to be noticed: the tumultuous, 
which, as the word suggests,- is accompanied 
with violent movement; and the slow, wbich 
goes on as all the matenals requisite for it are 
present — that is, untQ all the sugar shall have 
disappeared, or until the external temperature 
^B^Iias become insufficient to sustain its activity. 
^^K'he first, for red wine, has to be carried on in 
^['presence of the solid parts of the grapes, which 
supply it with nourishment, and yield the col- 
oring matter, tannin and salts, necessary for 
making it. But when these effects have once 

*been obtained, it always does harm to leave the 
wine in contact with the pomace, above all if 
the air can act upon it. Hence it is clear that 
it should be drawn off as soon as ever the tu- 
multuous fermentation is over. No particular 
length of time can be assigned for this fei-ment- 
taon, but in general it does not exceed from 
bur to six days. 



68 V/XICri TUBE OF CLA BET, 

When we have decided to draw off the wine, 
it is usual, where oj>en fermenting vessels are 
use^i, to submerge the cap and stir it throngh 
the wine to strengthen it, or rather to equalize 
it. for it is known that what is lying in the mid- 
dle is fuller in boiiy, and possesses more color 
and spirit than the rest. After a few hours, 
when the pomace has again begun to separate 
frv>m the wine, the drawing out is proceeded 
with. Rut In^fore the mixing takes place we 
should Iv ^vrftvtly certain that no bad fer- 
mentation has takt^n place — that no mould has 
fonnt\i upon it. Should anv such appear it 
should be ri^novtHl with scrupulous care. 

Tho wino is usually drawn from the tank or 
fonnenting vessel thn^ugh a tap fixed near the 
bottom: but as it is liable to be choked by 
skins, and thori"* should W placed securely 
at the bark a strainer of some kind, sucli as a 
x^iokor ba^skot, Ivfon^ the vessel was filled, as 
it hardh ojin bo fixed aftorwanis. 

In the insi ncc of co>-ort\l fermenting tuns, 
and Milh perfonito^l lids to keep the pomace 
nndcT the v ine. \hc lid and coloring should be 
1*1 ino\ ed sione luwv pi»«^> ions T-i'^ opening tlie tap, 
tskinvi i';uv \h:\\ the man who di">es the work 
>ball lu^t be put in il?ni*rer of his life by car- 
boini* :uiil <aN. 

If the .MiTangc'iueui i>t the establishment is 



VINIGULTURE OF CLARET. 



BWch as I have dtjaeribed in the preceding chap- 
, nothing can be easier than to send the wine 
irough pipes or tubing into the casks prepared 
J receive it; but in any case it will prove hon- 
f to run the wine fii'st into a sufficiently deep, ■ 
but not very large vat, to allow any gross impu- 
lity which may have come through, to be de- 
posited. When the fermenting vessels stand 
Ion the same level as the cellar, the above meth- 
Eod cannot be employed, and recourse must be 
^ad to carrying the wine in buckets, or using a 
izitable pump. An apparatus has been invent- 
i byM. C. Laburthe.of Mont-de-Marsan, very 
convenient for this operation, the principle of it 
being pressure of air. In some countries huge 
syphons are used for drawing ii£F, but this meth- 
i is far inferior to the tap. 
Pressing of the pomace takes place directly 
9ie fermenting vat is empty, to obtain, be- 
lore injury can take place, the remainder of 
[he wine contained in it. In going about this 
irork, the first thing to be attended to is getting 
i of the body of carbonic acid gaa contained 
1 the vessel, because it might injure or kill tlie 
■orkmen. This is done by agitating a green 
(DUgh, or clothes, sacks, etc., in the interior of 
el, so as to let ordinary air in and 
1 the carbonic acid gas. Wlien that has 
1 done, the workmen empties out the pom- 
joe, which is then carried to the press. 



70 VINICULTURE OF CLARET, 

When the wine making is done in large tuns 
with man holes, the drawing oflf is done in the 
same manner; and then it is even easier to ex- 
tract the pomace, for it can be done with a rake 
through the man-hole; and afterwards, when a 
man has to go in and wash out the residue, care 
should be taken that the gas is all out, and the 
tun full of ordinary air, or he may die from as- 
phyxia. 




PRESSING AND VATTING. 



Bed wine beiug uecessarilj always fermented I 
! on the skins, there will always he two qualities 
' which the French call vin de ijoidte (that which J 
is drawn otf through the tap) , and vvn-ck-prtm 
(that which is forced out of the pomace by 1 
I pressing it). 

For this purpose there are many different 1 

I kinds of presses in use in different wine eoun--J 

I tries. In Portugal the kind in almost universalll 

3 is what is called vara e •parafimo — beam and'J 

rew — a very primitive sort of a machine, ob-fl 

cupyiug much room, very heavy, and not very J 

effective, and affords no advantage beyond the J 

simplicity of construction, and facility of re-J 

r pair. I would adviae all who need a new presal 

iiQ obtain one of the modern make, of whichlj 

h plenty of models or plans may be seen, while 1 

'^ their price is not high. Whatever be the press I 

1 -used, as all the wine contained in the pomace I 

: is not squeezed out by one preasiug, and as it I 

is always necessary to cut and mix the pomuce I 

I three or four times, the wine which rui s oufrl 

'. on each of those pressings is kept sepai'ate, and i 

^ marked as first, second, and ihird, for there i 



72 VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

difference in their composition, which eontams 
different quantities of the materials yielded by 
the solid portions of the grapes. The first press- 
ing generally contains the most alcohol, fannin 
and coloring matters in solution; the others 
more extractive matters. 

Some viniculturists are opposed to the mixing 
of any pressings Ti-ith the wine, as they consider 
them to interfere with its fineness, softness and 
sweetness. Others again contend that the 
pressing, especially the first, improve and give 
endurance, color and consistency to the bnlk of 
the wine, whilst without the addition it wonld 
remain too soft and not keep well. This view 
is favored by the best authorities, and has the 
recommendation of being in general use in the 
best wine districts. 

It is true that \idthout them the wine ripens 
sooner, and becomes fit for use; but then there 
is the risk of its not keeping, and its early de- 
cay. On the other hand, the result of mixing 
the wine with one-fifth or one-sixth of the 
pressings is that at first it is rougher and hard- 
er, but it always keeps better, and with time 
loses this harshness, which is disagreeable only 
while it is young. The good properties of wine 
treated in this manner are ascribed to the larger 
amount of tannin in solution, principally that 
derived from the seeds, because it possesses 



VINIfOLTORE OF CLARET. 



^f^ihe property of precipitating the ferment, which 

^^ Taa,y still be in the wine, antl may become the 

cause of its deterioration. Under these oircum- 

stances it is beyond all doubt advantageous to 

add a portion of the pressings to the wine. 

In order that the mixing may bs properly . j 
done, it is necessary that it be uniform. If all 
^Hthe wine of one fermenting be put into one vat, 
^^H; should be of such capacity as to hold both 
^^P&e wine and the pressings, especially the first 
pressings; not forgetting that it ia always use- 
ful to set aside a certain quantity of the same 
wine in a small cask, to be used for filling up, 
an operation which it is not proper to perform 
with wine of a different quaHty. When the 
mixing has to be done in a number of casks 
great care must be taken to preseiTe the same 
proportions in each, so that the bulk may prove 
uniform. In this case the casks ai'e filled three 
parts full, reserving one third for pressings. 

In Burgundy aud in the Medoc tlie wines are 
matured in barrels of 280 litres capacity (60 
mperial gallons neai'ly), and the wine is dis- 
cibuted so evenly through them tliat each one 
feceives an equal quantity of wine from the 
top, middle and bottom of the vat. Of the first 
a which runs out of the tap and which cor- 
JBponds to the lowest part of the vat, they 
fut equal measures into each hogshead, one 



74 VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

after another, and so of all the rest of the con- 
tents of the vat; and lastly the same with the 
pressings till they are all full. 

Obviously the same result can be obtained, 
and even with greater certainty that it will be 
uniform, by making the mixture in a sufficiently 
capacious vat, stirring the materials thoroughly, 
and after a few hours of rest to allow the gross- 
er parts to fall to the bottom, draw it at once 
into the casks in which it is to remain till the 
time for racking. 

What I have just said about mixing the 
pressings with the wine, applies in a general 
way to the making of all table red wines, or 
pure wines of food; still, as this question is 
surrounded with many conditions, such as the 
nature of the kind of grapes used, their ripe- 
ness, the state of the stalks, etc. {engago), and 
the character of the wine we wish to obtain, it 
is plain that the viniculturist should attend to 
all these points, and seek in experience for the 
best plan of conducting his operations. 

Throughout this exposition of the processes 
of wine making, I have again and again insisted 
on the necessity of absolute cleanliness and 
neatness of all vessels, utensils, things and per- 
sons coming in contact with the wine. The 
majority of our wine makers unwisely underval- 
ue the precautions necessary for making wine 



VINICULTURE OF CLARET, 75 

that will keep and mature well; and I cannot 
help insisting on this point again even at the 
risk of wearying the reader. 

The general precept is very simple — whether 
in bringing in the grapes, the making of the 
wine, or in its after manipulations and care, 
never allow to be used any utensils, instruments 
or vessels which have not been washed scrupu- 
lously clean. The baskets of the pickers, the 
boxes in which the fruit is carried, the tubs 
and carts in which they are conveyed to the 
press room, the tanks or benches where the 
crushing takes place, the presses, buckets, and 
other vessels used in cariying the wine, the 
tubing used for passing the must into the vats, 
the hoppers and funnels, all the machinery, the 
tuns, pipes, and all the apparatus of what kind 
soever are comprised under the general recom- 
mendation — tliey all need washing before being 
used; and as soon as the wine making is over, 
again that they may be clean and sweet for the 
next vintage. The greatest of all care and vig- 
ilance are required about the fermenting vats 
and vessels, because through being in contact 
with the wine, they mfiy so easily communicate 
to it any dangerous matter with which they are 
foul, from which may arise, not alone a bad 
taste, but the ruin of the wine in the future. 

New wooden vessels of all kinds ought to be 



76 VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

well scalded with boiling water, and afterwards 
washed in cold water, before being nsed. 
Utensils which have been in nse require to be 
thoroughly examined on the inside if they have 
any bad smell, and if they impart a bad taste 
to the water when washed; if the stayes show 
stains in the wood, because they may be the 
earliest indications of rotting, or any other de- 
fect, in which case they should be coopered 
and planed, and afterward washed with water 
containing 1-10 of sulphuric acid, and rolled 
about so as to bring it in contact with eyery bit 
of the inside : and afterward washed with cold 
water and a brash until the last trace of the 
acid is removed. Some employ with much ad- 
yantage freshly prepared milk of lime, always 
however finishing with a wash of cold water, 
and best of all — for a final purifying, a rinse with 
al:\»hol. After being well washeil, the vessel 
should be drieil with a clean cloth, and if it be 
not to be used right thei'e, a match should be 
burned in it and the bung driven home. This 
burning of a sulphur match in the empty casks 
should be repeated every six months, for noth- 
ing is moiv efficacious in presening casks from 
mildew. 

The oniplovmeut of g^xvl spirit to wash the 
casks in which fine wines an^ to be kept is very 
ust^ful. In some countries, for instance in Bur- 



VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 77 

gundy, they use wine of good quality, and this 
is sensible, because it cannot communicate any 
foreign taste or smell. 

Writers on the treatment of wines have given 
a host of receipts for cleansing wine casks for 
maturing wine, but I see no need of reproduc- 
ing them in this place, convinced as I am that 
what I have said already is ample for this part 
of my work, if it only be faithfully performed. 

Having now arrived at the point of putting 
the wine into casks, let us see what care is 
needful for the complete organization of the 
wine, and to insure its ability to keep. 



CARE NEEDED BY THE ^WINE AFTEX 
IT HAS BEEN PUT IN CASK. 



T ^; ' ■•. 1^ ::...!. - c . -.• -. n : .::. : • -rri 'i_ .c roiiraT fiii5 

f • • .. - • 

. I -'..":'.- \ ..:'-* : ■ . - It til t i_t . tt* S i-j_ ?4>:*r t*~ 
- J .- •- - • -^- ■^- -r' - A> j2\im *^ 

— * 



- 4.— t.i> 



VINIVULTURE OF CLARET. 



79 I 



air. In some parts, for sate of groater aecu- 
rity, a simple tin tube, wLicli acts as a hydrau- 
lic valve, in tlie form of an inverted letter cO , ia j 
adapted to the bung-hole, with some water in . 
the curvature, or cotton wool. 

"When there is no longer any sign of fermen- 
tation, whether lieeanse all the sugar has been i 
broken up, or on account of the temperature ' 
having become too low for fermentation to con- I 
tinue, the bung ought to be driven home to ex- 
clude all contact with air. This usually hap- 
pens during November. Just about that time, 
the wine, heretofore more or less turbitl, begins 
to clear itself and become transparent. They 
then say "the wine is made;" yet from this 
point onward the need of cai-e to presen-e it and 
perfect its organization is not less ui-gent. 
The Jirst condition to be attended to, is the 
( complete exclusion of air, in order to pieveut 
1 the formation on the surface of tliose vegetable 
I ifTOwths OT flowers which precede or accompany 
I the acetic fermentation, and other changes 
* vhich injuriously affect it. In order to effect 
L iHiia exclusion of air, it is indispensable to keep 
I the vessels completely full fco the bnng. The 
t Tigilanee should know no bounds on this point, 
I most of all during the first period of its life, for 
Y either indifference or carelessness may occasion 
f serious injury which later on will show itself, 
I and when too late to be remedied. 



80 VINICULTURE OF CLARET, 

In all kinds of wooden vessels, two causes 
concur in diminishing the volume of wine con- 
tained in them, and by consequence a vacant 
space which the air soon fills. The first is con- 
tractioD of the liquid by cold, and the second 
evaporation of the liquid through the pores of 
the wood, and the interstices of the bung. 
This last cause goes on all the time, and hence 
the need of filling up at very short intervals. 
During the first months it is necessary to fill up 
at least once a week; later once in a fortnight, 
and lastly once a month, but never less. After 
every filling, the bung should be wrapped in a 
clean cloth dipped in the wine, or in good 
brandy. The wine used to fill up the casks 
should be identically the same as that which 
they contain, scrupulously preserved from any 
alteration, in fact, beyond all suspicion. For 
this purpose a sufficient quantity of the same 
wine should be stored in small vessels of some 
convenient kind and size; but, for the same 
reason that compels us to keep the big vessels 
full, we have to take care that that used for 
filling up is not allowed to lie in contact with 
air. So the vintner needs to make his calcu- 
lations how best to comply with these general 
instruction>s. 

In proportion to the number and capacity of 
the keeping casks, quantities should be pro- 



VINICIJLTUIIE OF CLARET. 



81 1 



■ Tided, eaeli just sufficient for one filling up. 
■"Where the quantity is email it is beat to have 
l&e wine in bottles to avoid loss and prevent 
■'injury. This is the practice in countries where 

ine wine is made and matured, as in Burgundy I 
Kiiiid the Medoc, where it is kept in barrels of 
|.Only 228 litres. 

A very simple and effective method of keep- 
ing the casks full ia to drop_ iu pei'fectly clean 
p quartz pebbles. 

It is easy to understand the reason for all i 
these precautions; since if the wine used for 
filling up were not of the same quality, or con- 
tained any principle of alteration, it is clear 
he disease would be communicated to the . 
whole- 
Later on when the wino has been pnt iuto 
3 or smaller casks, and when it is conven- 
ient to pile them one upon another, and it be- 
i difficult to keep tlieni full, the proper 
rCourse is to place them with the bung on one 
Bide, 80 that it may be kept moist and exclude 
As to the evaporation, which will still go 
I through tlie pores of the wood, whatever 
^ace is formed will be filled by vapors of the ' 
Fine, which will keep out air. 
The aim and object of the above precautions i 
I to pi-eserve the mature genuine first-class ' 
■red wines; for tlioae are the most liable to de- 
1a 



84 VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

As long as the temperature remains low the 
germs lie dormant, and the presence of the lees 
does the wine no harm, but as soon as it rises 
to a degree of warmth favorable to fermentation 
they rise in the wine, which again becomes tur- 
bid, ** kicks up," and is often hopelessly lost. 
Common sense points straight to the removal 
of all danger from the above source, as soon as 
ever the conditions are favorable. Backing 
alone can effect it. 

Sometimes the wine does not clear early, and 
now and then it remains turbid, holding in sus- 
pension permanently solid foreign matters. In 
these cases it is necessary to force such matters 
to deposit. The means usually had i ecourse to 
for this purpose and found to be the safest and 
most efficient, is clarifying with isinglass, or 
gelatine, or white of eggs, or other substance 
having similar properties, which, upon being 
introduced into the wine and uniformly distrib- 
uted through it, becomes more or less solidified 
by the action of the alcohol and tannin, form- 
ing as it were a net, which, as it sinks toward 
the bottom, drags the suspended matters with 
it, leaving the liquid clear and bright. In the- 
ory this is * * clarification by albuminous mat- 
ters." Let us now see how and when each of 
the above substances will be found best to use, 
when ue have to employ them. In most cases, 



VINICULTURE-OF CLARET. 

aid principally \a tLe instnucfi of red wiues, 
Srhicli is the chief matter of which I am at 
Sresent treating, rucking Ib indispensable, and 
ihoiild be done as soon as the wine has depoa- i 
ted its lees. Aa thi.-" occm-a during tlie cold I 
jyeather of winter, and as with warm wGiither i 

f spring will start fermentation, the racking 
ought to be all over before it sets in. March 
is the mouth when it most usually ia done, for 

I then the weather is cold, clear and serene. 
Necessary aa it is to rack, a moment' a consid- 
eration will Bnffice to show that neither the ex- 
^t time when it should take place, nor how 
k^t«n it should be repeated. The nature of the 
Vine, the conditions under which it was made, 
»nd the state of the weather— all may modify 
the perioda for racking. 

Wines loaded with much ferment and foreign 
matters, if the weather be iine in early winter- 
November or December — should tlieu have 
% first racking. This racking, however, has not 
prevent a second before the opening of 
^ring, because this is indispensable in the 
e of cdl wines in order to protect them against 
8 first warm weather of spring, as aUo at the 
en the vine .breaks bud, for at that time 
I6J almoet always show signs of iutemal com- 
giotion. 
The same disturbance appenrs to be renewed 



86 VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

when the vine is in bloom, and again when the 
grapes begin to change color in August. In 
very hot years, and in exceptional cases, it may 
be desirable to rack in the latter end of June, 

« 

chiefly if the work was badly done in March, or 
not at all. 

Racking becomes all the more indispensable 
when the wines are poor and defectively made. 
All the ordinary ones, especially in bad years, 
demand at least two rackings, the first one be- 
ing preceded by a fining with isinglass or other 
matter, which will be treated of later on. 

Fine alcoholic wines made with very ripe 
grapes, with much sugar and little ferment, 
and which consequently deposit little lees, may 
need only one racking, at the end of winter. 

The operation of which we are treating, in 
order to be beneficial and safe, requires a cer- 
tain number of precautions and cares to be at- 
tended to with all vigilance. 

In the first place, it is proper that the wine 
should be clear and that lees should have com- 
pletely settled to the bottom. When this has 
not taken place by the time when we judge the 
racking ought to take place, then we must re- 
cur to previous clarification. 

For racking we ought to choose a time when 
the weather is clear, dry and cold, with a north 
wind, if possible; because then the whole body 



VINICULTURE OF CLARBT. 



^^B of the wine is tranquil, the air pure, and there 
^^H is little chance of hurtful germs being introduc- 
^^1 ed into the wine. On Uie other hand, rainy, 
^^F bluatery, atormj weather, and the winds from 
the south (in the northern parts of PortugiU) 
are not favorable to a good racking. Expeirts 
affirm that the best time for it is eai'ly in the 
morning. 

It is quite essential that as far a 
I .air should be allowed to come in contact with 
f the wine during racking, particularly in the ] 
j ease of delicate wines, and of no great body. 
\ The method commonly in use in Portugal has 

teen to insert a tap in the cask a little higher 1 
> than where it is supposed the lees have settled; 
I draw the wine into buckets and pass it into 
I another cask previously sulphured. As soon aa I 
I ever the wine comes over turbid, stop; and pnt ] 
I the thick wine and lees into a vessel apart. ' 
i Part of the turbid wine may be clarified after- 
[ .vards, and the lees used for distillation. 

In doing the work this way, it is impossible 
[ to prevent contact with the air, and the loss of ' 

le portion of the brandy and aromatic ele- 
iflnents; and on this account many fear to rack 
I vines which are naturally weak, or which are 
Toannsually delicate. The danger, however, will 
\ bo greater from leaving them on the leiss, than 
[ from exposing them to the loss of some alcohol 



88 VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

and perfume; which, however, need not be lost 
if the method I am going to describe be adopt- 
ed — one which is in general use in the most 
celebrated wine districts of France. The cask 
which has to receive the clean wine, is placed 
close to the one from which we are about to 
rack. In a hole made in this latter, we fix a 
straight tap, to which is fastened a flexible tube 
of leather or rubber. To the other end of it, 
another straight tap is secured, which is fixed 
in a corresponding hole of the empty cask. 
When a vent-hole has been made in each, to al- 
low the passage of air. and both of the taps have 
been opened, the wine will run into the empty 
cask till it reaches the level in each. In order 
to force the rest of the wine into the clean cask, 
and out of the other, they fix securely in the 
bung-hole a special kind of bellows. The air, 
compressed in the cask, acting on the surface 
of the liquid, forces it to enter the other cask. 
When they hear a sort of whistling noise in the 
tube, indicating that air is entering, both of 
the taps are closed, and withdrawn. The rest 
of the wine and lees are drawn off into a buck- 
et. By this process, which in practice is sim- 
pler then it appears in the description, espec- 
ially as to the tubes and bellows, ihe racking is 
done without difficulty, without allowing the 
air to exert any notable influence on the liquor; 



VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 



and eifectuallj preveutinff the loss uf spii'it audi 
perfume. 

Backing can also be done with a syphou or a 1 
pump, but with less advantage and more risk I 
Uian bj tlio nietliod I have explained, especial- I 
ly when the casks are small or middle sized. J 
When racking liaa to be done from one great I 
vessel to another of equal size, the bellows can- 
not be used, but an appliance devised by M. 
Ijaburthe can. It is, of course, an easy matter 
to rack off wiuo from a great vat or tun, into 
casks. We have to take notice however, that 1 
wines of higb quality gain much by being kept ■] 
in the casks into which tJiey were first drawn. J 
To this end, as soon as the cask is emptied, 
carefully washed and sulphured, the wine ' 
should be returned to it, the same precautions 
and appliances being used as in the racking. 
In Burgundy and in the Medoc, wines of liigh 
price and estimation are always drawn from the .' 
fermenting vats into new barrels of 228 litres,,] 
so that whon the racking and clarifying have J 
been done, they may be returned into them. 
In them they are sold, and the price of the cask \ 
is added to that uf the wine. 



ON CLARIFYING. 



When wine by simple racking becomes lim- 
pid, transparent and *' candle-bright," there is 
no need of clarifying; but this rarely happens, 
and the wines, even after being well racked and 
at a proper season, fall still short of being quite 
clear and bright, on account of minute matters 
still held in suspension, and which must be got 
out, because sooner or later they may injure 
the wine. 

It is just as impossible to state any fixed times 
when wine should be clarified as when it should 
be racked. Common sense must be used about 
the condition and age of the wine, the state of 
the weather and other circumstances. At any 
time after the racking, if the wine be not bright, 
it may be clarified if the weather is cool and 
clear, and, under any circumstances, when the 
wine has to be either exported or bottled, it 
ought to be clarified. During their first year 
all wines require at least one clarifying, and 
those made from bad grapes or in a bad season, 
that have an excess of ferment and clear with 
difficulty, demand clarification absolutely. But, 
above all others,, wines which have a natural 



VINICULTURE OF V LA RET. 



91 



bpndeiicy to "kii.'k jibout,"' as we comimmly 
lay, reqmre ligoroiis clarification after tlieir 
irat racking. 

Artificial clarifying accomplisbea, as far as 
Wsaible, the same effect as would be if the 
nine were filtered tlirough paper. But as this 
wnot be done without ruin to tlie wine, we 
■prepare a substance of soma kind which will 
qnietly fall through the wine and accomplish 
the same purpose. Many different substances 
Baay be employed for this purpose. The more 
|enerally used, however, are whites of eggs, 
lajsting mainly of albuminous matters; iain- 
i or albumen, of which there are several 
rariefJGB; the blood of bullocks or sheep, wliich 
Fontain matters that coagiilate, such as albu- 
ten and fibrin; fresh milk, which contains the 
jurd also coagulablo; and many artificially pre- 
Bred substances, prepared expressly for clari- 
fying wine — all of which have more or less the 
properties just mentioned. 

It is by no means a matter of indifference 
"Sfhich of these substances is to be employed, 
pi the one selected may either clarify well or 
lot at all, or yet, what is still worse, leave be- 
ind it injurious matters. 
1 1 have always found it advantageous, just be- 
I rackinf^ in March, to determine the alco- 
bolic strength, and again after it; so that if 



92 VINICULTURE OF CLARET, 

there have been any loss, it may be restored by 
the addition of some good brandy, or enough 
to leave it very slightly in excess. 

What I have already said about the advan- 
tage and even necessity of separating the clean 
wine from the lees is always applicable to pure, 
genuine wines for the table. This refers main- 
ly to red wines, but there are special cases where 
a wine may be benefited by being for a time 
left to lie on the lees, at least as long as the 
processes of its formation are progressing. 
This has special application in the instance of 
white wines, for they are not fermented on the 
stalks and skins; and we have found in many of 
our provinces that rolling the casks repeatedly, 
and mixing lees and wine thoroughly, is good 
practice. It is the weak, thin white wines, and 
even the more spirituous, which, from different 
reasons, are benefited by this mixing through 
them of the lees during their first year. I have 
alluded to the advantage, and, in most cases, 
the necessity of artificial clarification of new 
wines; let us now inquire into the conditions of 
how and when it should be done. 

For clarifying red wines, nothing appears to 
surpass the whites of new-laid eggs; for white 
wines, pure white gelatine, or isinglass is pre- 
ferred. 

Albumen, which forms an essential part of the 



VINICUhTUHt: OF VLAllET. 



ihitea of eggs, ami which we fiml in bullock's 
lood, is a Hubstauce which without alteration 
\ its compositiou, can exist imder two forms. 
1 may be either soluble or insoluble. In fresh 
;g8 it is in the soluble form (can be mixed 
perfectly with water). When heated to 76 C, or 
about 180 F., it becomes fixed, and can no 

t longer be dissolved in water. But it is not 
fltlone heat which coagulates albumen; alcohol, 
tannin, strong free acida, and other chemical 
" subatanees coagulate albumen, whether pure or 
dissolved out in water. 

Gelatine, which forma the different sorts of 
the glue of commerce, is not very soluble in cold 
water. It softeus and swells up, but it dissolves 
readily in warm water, and forms a jelly. The 
solution is coagulated by alcohol, whicli throws 
it down. Tannin forms an insoluble compound 
with it, and therefore precipitates it from its 
lolntions. 

In view of these properties of albumen and 
^latine, it is not difficult to understand how 
they act in the process of clarifying wine. It 
holds in solution alcohol and tannin. Where 
solutions of albumen or gelatine arc mixed in 
matters like wiue, containing alcohol and tan- 
nin, they form a kind of membraneous net, 
C little by little, contracts and gathers up 
er matters they find iu su3i>eusion, and 



^■floln 



94 VINICULTURE OF CLARET, 

by their united weight, drag them to the bottom 
of the vessel, and of course, after a while, leav- 
ing the liquid clean and bright. 

As already said, the white of eggs is the most 
convenient for clarifying red wines generally. 
It is the only substance which should be used 
in clarifying red wines of high character, for 
about its purity there can be no question, 
neither does it introduce any dangerous foreign 
substance. Ordinarily the whites of two or 
three eggs suffice for one hecolitre of wine 
(about 26 gallons). The whites of the eggs 
should be quite free from any yolk; then in a 
suitable dish or other vessel, beaten up with 
some water and clean salt, into a froth. Then 
after drawing off some quarts of the wine to be 
clarified, into a backet, the eggs are first added 
to it, and the whole thoroughly incorporated 
with a piece of clean wood, flattened at the end, 
and a cross piece attached to the end, so as to 
make the mixture as uniform as possible. This 
mixture is then poured into the cask of wine to 
be clarified, stirred well in it with a suitable 
wooden implement, and left at rest for a num- 
ber of days, more or less, in accordance with 
the size of the cask. If the clarifying has been 
done in a ''pipe," at the end of eight or ten 
davs, the sediment mil have fallen to the bot- 
tom, and the time has come for the second 



i'/NlCULTUUli OF VLAIIET. 

icking. The aalt omjjloyed lias the iidvantftge 
i faroriiig the solubility, ami aa a consequence 
) division aud distribatiou of the albumen 
irough the body of the liquid, aud produces a 
"more gentle and effectiva coagulation of the 
suspeuded impurities; for itself is insoluble in 
i. wiue, while on the other hand it acts as a pre- 
^^■reutive against alteration, corruption, or fer- 
^^■nentation of the deposited lees. 
^^H From what has been said coDcerning the 
^^Hianner in which the clarification is effected, 
^^B^e might conclude that all tiiat is necessary 
^^Rrould be to mis the whites of the eggs, pre- 
f^^pared as above, witli the wine at the top of the 
cask or tun; iind this would appeal- to be an 
advantage in the c ise of very large vessels. 

[N. B, This is theoi-y, and needs practical 

lOnfirmation, eapeciallj as to the shape of the 

r tuns to be clarified. — Transla'or.l 

Clarifitiation with gelatine, or other analogous 
Bobatances met with in commerce, is certainly 
f effective; but before speaking of the meth- 
(tts of using it, it seems desirable to say a few 
words concerning eou si derations which should 
guide uB in their employment. 

The essential condition of a good fermenta- 
' ' t ion is the formation of that kind of a membra- 
^^^beous net, which contracting itself in the liquid, 



96 VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

can lay hold on and carry down the impurities 
and germs of fermentation suspended in it. 
Now all sorts of gelatine are not equally effica- 
cious in producing these effects, and not a few 
of them, on account of being badly made, dirty, 
or not fresh, may impart dangerous matters to 
the wine. 

The gelatine obtained by prolonged boiling 
of animal skins, and other animal tissues, which 
furnish the white gelatine of the painters, does 
not satisfy the requirements just mentioned, 
and is useless for clarifying wine. Still this 
same, when once perfectly dried, constitutes the 
strong gelatine, when free from bad taste and 
smell, may be used, and is frequently used with 
advantage in clarifying wines containing an ex- 
cess of tannin. Since it precipitates tannin, it 
softens the wine, as well as clarifies it. 

The quantity commonly employed is 20 
grams (about 8 ounces) of the dry gelatine to 
about 26 gallons of wine; but of course this is 
a matter to be left to the judgment of the oper- 
ator, since the wine may be very muddy, or 
nearly bright. There are varieties of gelatine 
so white and fine, that as much as 35 grams per 
hectolitre might safely be used; and with such 
gelatine even fine wines may be clarified. The 
process employed differs little from that em- 
ployed in the use of albumen. The gelatine 



VINICULTURE OF CLAMET. 



^Bbroken into small bits, is j^^iut to soak in a little 
water; after a time a slow heat is applied; then 
it is thoroughly mixed with a smuU but saffi- 
cient quantitj' of wine, drawn from the cask, and 
^then this misture is put into the wiue to be 
leaned, when the cask is to be oloaod and left 
) rest. 

The variety known in commerce aa the fish 
B (isinglass), obtained from the air blad- 
fera of certain kinds of fish, notably the sfcur- 
ion, is far prefei'able to the gelatines, however 
ire they may be, but above all in clarifying 
Belicate white wines containing but little tannin. 
This Bubatance does the clarifying independ- 
ently of any action on tMUuiu, keeping its mem- 
br&neona form, even when very much diluted, 
and acting mechanically; being conti'acted by 
the alcohol, and falling through the wine with- 
out robbing it of anything which constitutes it« 
body. It is however uaed caiitiously, not more 
than 20 grama to a pipe, or about 4 grama 
to the hectolitre. It must be finely cut, aoaked 
with a little water for a few hours, then well 
broken up with the hands, or in a collander, 
_diluted with some wine in a bottle or flask, and 
I then used for clarifying in the ordinary 

I'Clarifying with the blood of bullocks or 
>ep, does its woi'k with energy, but it is nev- 



98 VINICULTURE UF CLARET. 

er employed except to clarify very ordiuaiy 
wines, becanae they nearly always leave bebiud 
them a sickly taste, and throw down a heavy 
deposit. When it is used at all, it should be 
sparingly, and always with quite fresh blood. 

Tlie powders and artificial preparations for 
clarifying wines, whose composition is held a 
secret, offered in commerce, have aa their prin- 
cipal component or base, dried albumen obtaiu- 
from the serum of animal blood. They offer 
no advantage over the means already spoken 
about which could counterbalance the risk of 
deception. 

Over and above the animal materials, there 
has been a mineral substance pointed out, which 
can be easily obtained, and in sufficient purity 
for clarifying wines witliout risk of any kind. 
This is alumina in the gelatinous state, which 
is prepared by decomposing a solution of com- 
mon alum by an alkali (soda, potassa or ammo- 
nia), and thoroughly washing with pure water 
the gelatinous precipitate formed. This gela- 
tinous alumina is insohible both in water and 
wine, but it can be easily mixed tbrougJi the 
body of liquid by agitation, when it will fall to 
the bottom and draw the impurities along ■with 
it. It has, however, the property of absorbing 
coloring matters, with which it forms lakes; bo 
its employment in red wine, at least, will A 




VINICULTURE I. 



99 



ways be atteuded with loss of color. Hiuue 
also forms an insoluble compound with tannin, j 
it will necessarily diminish the roughness of the I 

' wine. As yet it has not been adopted in gen- J 
eral practice, and the most I can say for it at I 
present ia that it should be used only in an ex- 
perimental way a]id with much precaution. 

We observe sometimes how wine will not I 
clarify even when the best means have been 1 
employed. Now, the cause might be a m 
ment of fermentation going on in the liqnid, or 1 
a deficiency of those substances which are in- J 
dispensable for precipitating the albumen or 
gelatine — that is, a want of alcohol and of tan- 
nin. In either case we must not go on adding 
more albumen or gelatine. Bince clarification 
requires the liquid to be perfectly tranquil, it 
is clear that if any fermentation is going on the' I 
clarifying materials have no chance. In such a 
case it is best to rack the wine into a well sid— 
phured cask, and wait till all signs of ferment* I 
ii^ have disappeared, selecting for the purpoi 

I cool, clear weather. This supposes the ferment- j 
ation to be alcoholic, for if not that, then the 
wine is diseased, and othtT means have to be | 

I availed of, concerning which I intend to trealcJ 
later on. 

If the clarifying matter ig ineffective on ao--! 
count of the weakness of the wine, the best thing 1 



100 VINICULTURE OF CLARET, 

to be done is to rack it as before said, and when 
clarifying is again undertaken, at the very time 
of doing it, to give the wine a fair dose of bran- 
dy and tannin, proportionate to the amount of 
clarifying matter used, and for this purpose it 
would be well to make an experiment or two in 
a graduated glass or tube. The best solution 
of tannin, or at any rate the most easily pre- 
pared for this purpose, is got by soaking grape 
seeds in good brandy, a quantity of which should 
be always at hand in the cellar, for it comes in 
useful in other cases to be treated of later. 

To resume. Clarifying having for its object 
to remove out of wine impurities which might 
injure it, especially the germs of fermentation, 
which might alter its constitution, is a very nec- 
essary operation, and above all indispensable 
for the preservation of fine delicate wines. 
There is nothing either difficult or expensive 
about it. Whites of eggs, gelatine and isin- 
glass are the substances ordinarily employed, 
with the best results. The two first are used to 
clarify red wines, the last for delicate white 
wines. The clarifying should be done in bright 
serene weather, and, when possible, in cold 
weather after racking. Immediately the wine 
is clarified, and the matters well settled in the 
bottom of the cask, it is proper to rack it again. 
During all the time, while clarifying is in 



VINICULTURE OF CLARET, 101 

progress, the wine should remain perfectly still 
and undisturbed, not alone as to the liquid in 
the cask, but anv blows or shocks on the out- 
side. 

With suitable rackings, with opportune and 
rigorous clarifying, and with carefully attend- 
ing to filling up, the wine will be in good con- 
dition, will keep on improving, and acquiring 
the best qualities that its nature is capable of 
developing as time passes. 



SULPHURING. 



Already on several previous occasions I have 
pointed out the necessity of purifying casks, 
etc., by burning a sulphur match in them be- 
fore filling wine into them, with special refer- 
ence to the occasions of racking. Sulphuring 
is a powerful help in maintaining the health 
and keeping properties of wines, and on that 
account it may be desirable here to enter some- 
what into details. 

Sulphuring by burning a match dipped in 
sulphur, or sulphur alone, it matters not which, 
may be useful under two points of view, either 
for sweetening the casks, since it will absorb 
oxygen and kill fungoid germs, or to arrest al- 
coholic fermentation for a longer or shorter 
time, or suspend fermentation of the sugar. 
The first case is the most general, for it is ap- 
plicable to all wines whatsoever; the second 
finds its use in making certain kinds of white 
wine, in which the aim is to preserve an excess 
of sweetness, by its protecting the sugar against 
the ferment. 

The theory of its operations is of its own nat- 
ure very simple. When sulphur is burned in 



VINICULTURE OF CLAKET. 



lOSi 



presence of oxygeu the two eombine and form 1 
a colorless gaa, which cannot be breathed, and ' 
which has a suffocating etnel]. We call it sul- 
phurous acid. This gas is readily soluble in 
water and in wine, and after being formed it 
possesses the power in the presence of water or I 
moisture to absorb still more oxygen, becoming I 
converted into sulphuric acid, commonly called j 
" oil of vitriol." Hence we see that when sul- 
phur is bumed in a cask or any closed vessel or ' 
place, it first lays hold upon the oxygen of the 
air,leavingsitlphurousacidin itsplace. Inairso 
deprived of oxygen, and in presence of sulphur- 
ous acid, it is impossible for those lower forms 
of organisms to live, such as the mycoderms 
and ciyptogamic vegetations, which are vulgarly | 
called mildew, mould, and fei-ments, properly ao 
called. Even in solution sulphurous gas kills 
them and stops all fermentation. If, by absorb- 
ing more oxygen, it becomes sulphuric acid, 
this exerts a corrosive action on those minute 
bodies. "When a cask has lieen emptied and 
not washed for a few days, its inside will be 
I {ound covered with mildew, imparting to it a ' 
1 bad smell, starting in the direction of rotting , 

the wood itself, and rendering it nnflt to hold 

1 wine, for it would certainly be ruined. The 

I -way to prevent this, is to sulphur as soon as 

the cask is emptied of lees, and has been well 

washed. 



104 VINICULTURE OF CLARET, 

For sulphuring we prepare matches, which 
are strips of linen, cotton or paper, 25 centime- 
tres long, and 5 centimetres broad, more or less, 
which we dip in melted sulphur, and hang up 
to drain. When we use them we attach a length 
of wire, light the match and lower it into about 
the middle of the cask. While it continues to 
burn the bung hole should be closed, and the 
wire secured on the outside. A bung with wire 
already attached is a convenience. In with- 
drawing it, care should be taken not to drop 
the ashes, as they might possibly affect the taste 
of the wine. A portion of a match, of 10 or 12 
superficial square centimetres, is enough to 
sulphur a pipe. In the case of sulphuring 
large vats, tuns, etc., burn the sulphur in an 
iron, or porcelain capsule, properly secured to 
a wire, which may be once or twice raised up 
and down. 

When we go to rack, no time should be lost 
when the sulphuring is finished, in pouring the 
wine in while all the fumes are therej otherwise 
the benefit is not only lost, but it might prove 
injurious; because the sulphurous acid, coming 
in contact with the damp sides of the cask, 
would be converted into sulphuric acid, and 
impart a ba«i taste to the wine afterwards. 

When however we sulphur empty casks to 
keep them sweet, we drive the bung tight while 
all the fumes are in them, and leave it so till 



VlNICUlTUliE OF CLARET. 



[needed for use; and then before uBing them, 
they should lirat be well washed, to remove any I 
taste that might have been caused by the old ] 
sulphuring. 
We observe occasionally that the match will I 
not bum inside a cask which has been used for 
some time. This is caused by the bad condi- 
tion of the staves on the inside; because some , 
or all are in a state of decay, or covered with j 
mildew, or other form of change, which had 
absorbed the oxygen, for in air without oxygen f 
sulphur will not burn. It is in snch ease neo- 
essaiy first to fill the cask with air by using 
bellows, or by any other method, the best of i 
which would be to make the cooper take onfi 
the head and examine it. 

■ Sulphuring becomes of very much nse, when- 
ever we have to keep a cask not quite full. In 
all such instances the oxygen of the air tends di- 
rectly to cause change; mycoderros develop, or 
theflourofwineandofvinegar; generally it tnmB I 
sour and is lost. Up to a certain point, this 
may be obviated by burning a match in the [ 
empty space, and then turning tlje cask so that I 
the bung shall be covered by the wine. 
^^H When we wish to stop fermentation in wine 
^^H or must by sulphuring, it is necessary to actual- 
^^H ly saturate the liquid n-ith siilphnrous acid gas, 
^^H which cannot be done by burning onlv a match 

t 



106 VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

in the cask. First we bum a match, and while 
the cask is full of the fumes, pour in a portion 
of wine, close up the bung, and roll it about 
till the liquor has absorbed them. Then re- 
move the bung, admit the air, bum more 
match, and add another portion of wine, and 
so on till the cask is full. Thus the whole of 
the wine or must will be saturated with sulphur- 
ous gas, all fermenting put a stop to, and the 
sweetness preserved, but at first giving the dis- 
agreeable taste of sulphurous gas, which after 
a while passes off. 

To recapitulate, sulphuring is eminently use- 
ful for preserving both wines and casks. When 
they have to remain empty, it protects them 
against mould, and other hurtfal influences, 
while wine in presence of it loses its power of 
fermenting and remains unchanged. 

Since during the burning of sulphur the oxy- 
gen is abstracted from the air, and sulphurous 
gas produced, and since the presence of oxygen 
is indispensable to the wine during certain per- 
iods of its formation, evidently it cannot be 
made use of before the wine is made, or when 
we desire to stop fermentation, to preserve a 
part of their sugar. Sulphurous gas has a very 
energetic action on coloring matters, bleaching 
them, and causing them to disappear. On this 
account sulphuring is used in white wine, when 
it is sought to have them pale. 



Viy/CI.'LTUJIK OF CLAHET. 



107 



There are but few cases iu which aiiliihuring | 
s not useful, and they may be reduced to almost 
I the following : 

1. When we wish to preserve for certain , 
I kinds of wine that slight effervescence, which is ' 
a characteristic of wines of Bucellas, and which ' 
is dne to very feeble fermentation. 

When the wines are too alcoholic, and , 
I which ferment only slowly, as occurs when raia- 
[ ins are nsed. 

Lastly when the wine has been attacked I 
I by some particular disease, wiiieh will he treat- 
1 ed oi hereaft-er; when it assumes the appear- 
P ance of oiHuesa, or fatness, in the treatment of > 
I which oxygen is needed, and therefore suljihiir- 
I ing would be out of place. 

When speaking of sulphuring casts, I ought i 
to make a remark or two, which perhaps the 
educated and practical wine treater will kindly 
excuse. The remark refers to a disaster which 
Iios occurred oftener than once. Sulphuring 
must never be done without first making sure 
tiiat there is no brandy in the cask, nor even 
the vapor of it arising from previous washing, 
since the mixture of the vapors of alcohol and 
■explosive air in presence of the burning match, 
ilpill assuredly produce a. violent explosion, 
■which may cause great damage, not to say bum 
the buildings. 




THE USE OF BRANDY. 



The employment of brandy to keep and im- 
prove wines is so general in Portugal, and con- 
sidered so indispensable, that they have adopt- 
ed into general vogue the words ^^betiefidar os 
vinhos'' (benefit the wines). In making Port 
wines, and some others which are made in imi- 
tation of them, and also in making liqueur 
wines, it is indispensable, they say, to use it 
very freely. It is not my present intention to 
enter upon any discussion of the generous wines 
of the Douro, and others like them, because, as 
I have already repeatedly said my especial ob- 
ject in this little work, is to treat principally 
of genuine, pure, nourishing table wines, like 
French Clarets. 

The question arises, is the use of spirit an 
advantage in making wine, and is it indispensa- 
ble in the making of natural food wines ? 

This question deserves to be treated at con- 
siderable length, for there is a generally pre- 
vailing opinion that our wines do not keep well, 
nor endure voyages well without additional 
brandy. But on the other hand, wines loaded 
with alcohr)l have become objectionable to the 



VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 



10»1 



public taate in England itself, which has beew 
the chief consumer of our excessively generoufl^ 
wines of the Douro. So, while there, the con- 
sumption of French wines is rapidly increasing, 
with an alcoholic strengtli far beneath that 
which we have been sending to that market ha-H 
bitually, our importations, if they have not fal-j^ 
len off considerably, remain stationary, aiitn 
bear no relation to the increaaing consumptiois 
of wine in England. 

Without denying the utility and advantage of ' 
brandy in veiy moderate quantity in ordinary 
wines of consumption, tible wines, I am con- 
vinced by individual esperienee, that it is by no i 
means indispensable for the keeijiiig of suoh*j 
wines, when they have been made and kept with'! 
all the precautions and cares which I have poi 
ed out, unless in exceptional and purely acc£4 
dental cases. 

The southern provinces, where the grapes ' 
arrive at a maximum of maturity, and 
where they are the ricliest in sugar, and on this 
account would naturally produce the most spir- l 
itiious wines, are exactly those in which ths'a 
employment of brandy is moat common, for ex- ^ 
pei-ienee has demonstrated that their wines, on 
account of the way they are made, will not ma- 
ture and keep without a larije addition of siiirit. 
In the manufacture of the Port wines of the' 



110 VINICULTURE OF CLABST. 

Douro, the need of using brandy largely is per- 
fectlv understood. When thev set about mak- 
ing full-bodied wines of deep color, they b^in 
by a hard and prolonged and eren violent work- 
ing of the grapes, so as to reduce the berry and 
pulp and stalks to a high state of attenuation, 
charging the must in this way with all Hhe ma- 
terials needful for a perfect fermentation, not 
only the alcoholic, but those which may come 
aften^ards and corrupt the wine. It therefore 
becomes indispensable to render inoperatiye 
those dangerous materials, and the readiest way 
to do is by an excessive dose of brandy, which 
in time proves of benefit in developing the best 
characters of this kind of wine, which are 
brought out by the action of acids, obtained not 
alone from the berry, but from the stalks also 
upon it, which results in the formation of the 
eth<»r8 and aroma of the wine. But while wine 
made by this method, with very ripe grapes 
acquire essentially estimable properties, and an 
immense power of resisting alteration, on the 
other hand, they lose the property of being 
food wines (alimenticious), and are, as a matter 
of course, too exciting and generous. 

In the south of France and in Catalonia, full- 
bodied and very deep-colored wines are fabri- 
cated, to be mixed with the poor, thin wines of 
other countries, and for such purpose their ex- 



VINJCULTURE OF CLARET. 



Ill 



cesB of alcoliol is an advantage, upon which ths 
cellar men rely for tlieir keeping. Still, those | 
Konssillon and Catalonia, wines are hardly drink- 
able until blended witli weak ones. Their raison ' 
(f etre has a ground to stand ou, but very differ- 
ent from what I am advocating. 

The class of wines which our country (Portu- 
gal) for the most part is best suited to produce l 
aie natural wines — the pure juice of the grape ] 
— which is capable of beiug made good — nay, 
excellent— for every-day use at home, and fit 
for exportation to any country without risk of 
loss. That this can be done in good condition 
without the addition of spirit I am satisfied, for 
the same reasons that it is done in countries i 
where the nature of the grapes, the soil and 
climate are as nearly as possible identical with 
those of Portugal. Still, the addition of bran- 
dy in just and moderate proportion, far from 
doing harm, may very frequently improve the 
wine, and aid in its keeping properties. Hence 
we should not condemn it, but keep the use of 
I it within strict limits. 

In a work i)ubli9hed in 1864, Baron Thenard 
I treats extensively on adding brandy to wine, in 
I reference to France; but siuce, for the most i 
f part, his argnmenta might be applied with equal [ 
I force in Portugal, I ask leave of this nobleman, 
I whose friendship I have the honor to enjoy, to I 



- Siri'iTrUE nF CLARET, 

- i few purjiij:r:i|)1is from his interest- 

^ '. »-«:riu.so they tmable me to explain 

-- •-•tv.-iijtiigHS ':»t' using brandy within 

■ • - . . .- .imits. 

•j/n.ir'ktttaaam" — en<is and objects 

" ~iie ISO of bramlv. Let ns now see 

^ . . . ~ - "r^P'-^^je to accomplish by the use 

. . 11 vine. Many think the only use 

•.. . - :o iucrease the alcoholic strength 

:: ~lie end is much more complex — 

- . :.e must important i^oints of this 

.*/•■» /I/. ! 

• -.^ ■. fvond its direct and easily under- 

V . ... spirit exerts others more latent, 

.. - isctui, reactinij: benedcially on the 

. ..^.:itr.:.> i wines, such as the acids, the 

^ ^ :ir^ .'.lor and the ferments; it arranges 

^,^ ...4^^/:.t5^ :u a certain way their different 

.x.,»c>uSv %;ittiier by eliminating some in part, 

.^^a;;. >»iitu :hey are too abundant, or dimin- 

•i -^^ Ji'i*'- 'ide«'*t*« ^I'j on the other hand, by 

^..*i»a'Jt^ -ii^' development of those which are 

^v^ ;iw importance of adding brandy to 

iv^ acid wines. We miist take leaye 

Met to go into particulars. Eyery 

^al iii>ur wine is disagreeable to the 

iirlfiil to tlie stomach. Now, witli- 

l li> swy that a wine of low spirit 



VINICULTURE OF CLARET. H3 

I strfluglli iti always aciil, we may truly siiy tliat 

■ an acid wine always contains little spirit, and 

• that brandy diniiniahea this grave defect in i 

proportion to tlie quantity added. This our 

palates can tell ns, but a simple experiment \ 

demonstrates it better. 

"The wine, in point of fact, owes its acidity i 

1 one Land to a series of free acids always 

present in relatively small proportions, and on 

the other hand to the presence of a salt called 

et-eam of tartar, which has a peculiar acid taste, 

and which is often so abundant that it forms a 

considerable deposit on the inside of the casks. 

"If we saturate water with cream of tartar 

knd then add a Ulth brandy, the water directly 

becomes turbid and deposits a white powder, 

I. ■which is the cream of tartar. If, after giving 

I it this small quantity, we put in more brandy 

' the deposit will be increased in euch degree 

that when the alcohol attains a certain limit all 

the cream of tartar will have been deposited, 

and the water will be found to hare lost all 

acidity. 

" Repeat the above experiment with clear but 
L Very soar wine, instead of the aqueous solution 
I of cream of tartar. The result will be identi- 
Leal- Over and above this, direct experience 
I proves that in a wine, either naturally rich in 
I spirit, or aided with brandy up to 10 per cent.. 



114 yiSirCLTURE OF CLARET, 

rlion^ ^r^U at?ver appear an excess of acid. So, 
-ir< .k> w^ have said, brandying corrects the 
K vitn >v r»rvoipitating the excess of cream of 
^-zii*. n.* \'ik*a the acidity was due. 

■» ". /«• rvno^i of iik'ohol on the free adds, 
\ V -^^c^r: :«.' tn?^ acids, alcohol, and as a 
.. n>*^ ;^--vV. "^nju'iyiniJ, reacts upon them, but 
J - -?■ c*- remarkable manner, for its effect is 
*TT -_• .,1 <:r.co it converts a substance essen- 
tc». - >:vTtraI into substances most precious 

v".>>i::ts::!^n* teaches that acids possess power 
I ,>*«tt>c:iing with the essential principles of 
K^n.'"» a:ul with them forming ethers. Now 
^K>ai-* vtttonis and particularly those formed by 
■iW «v *t^»u of acids on wine alcohol in presence 
^ -ic .»chor constituents of the wine, possess a 
\%;>s^rc iHlor, and often a very energetic but 
^.Sa*^ sfcik'att^ taste. 

• MvN*tovhiU\ in order that the ethers may be 
;4v^HK\lv ov\ui witli length of time, at the ordi- 
t4^w> H'«^jvraturt> in a very weak acid wine, it is 
tivvv'f^M^ tliat it should contain a fair percent- 
;u^ kN< aUnJioK and 10 per cent, is by no means 
l|i^ MUch« wUou wo wish to find some result at 
MIM^ ^v) v^( t^ f^'^v months, as should be the case 
^ ^V^ tf^^Ht of moderate quality, which, to 
^ ^\|HMitH' i>f cellarage, should be drank 



VINICULTURE OF t 



^V "In order that the ackla may become neu- 
tralized and ethers formed in a weak sour wine, 
it is absolntely necessary to fortify in the vat, 
so as to utilize a force, called by chemists 
' thf nascftnt elate,' and the high temperature 
developed during the process of fermentation, 
for warmth greatly favors this kind of reaction. 
"Now we see in this instance the brandying 
has not primarily for its object to combat any 
injurious element, but to transform it into a 
precious product, which irapart^; to wine its 
most delightful relish. Facts known and borne 
out by ancient practice are in strict accordance 
with theory, though recent, but based upon 
syntheses the most complete, and analyses the 
most precise. The name of their eminent au- 
thor, Berthelot, is no mean authority for their 
value. 

"On the ivfixence of brandying on the rolor 
of red wines. — Red wines owe their color to a 
coloring principle, which, with the exeeptiou of 
the ' Hnia ' grapes, of which but few are culti- 
vated, exists only in the skins. This coloring 
principle of dark red inclining towards blue is 
soluble in tlie alcohol, but insoluble in the other 
L eonstituents of wine; conseqiiently, limiting 
lonrselves to this facfe, the wines would be so 
Rffinch richer in color, in the relative abundance 
F spirit, in pro]>i»rtion to the coloring matter 



116 VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

contained in the skins. Meanwhile, we know 
tliat there are wines of low alcoholic strength 
which possess a very beautiful color, but when 
we consider them we find them to be very acid, 
generally speaking. 

''From this it seems to follow that acidity 
has a good deal to do in the coloring of wines, 
and such is the fact. 

'* In point of fact the red coloring principle is 
very easily oxidized under the united action of 
air and acid liquids, but in this instance the 
darlc passes to a bright red, tending toward an 
orange tint, and from being insoluble in acid 
liquids it becomes soluble in them, while at the 
same time it ceases to be soluble in alcohol. 
CJonsequently with these new data, we can un- 
derstand how, if the acid grapes be properly 
(jrushed before being put in the fermenting ves- 
Hcl, if they were again and again mixed up just 
])revious to the setting in of fermentation, and 
al)Ove all, if they have a good long time on the 
nkins, that is to say, exposed to the action of 
the air by every means possible, the wine will 
luive a very deep color. Certainly there will be 
developed in it abundance of red coloring mat- 
ter, which will be dissolved in the acid body of 
the wine, and the red coloring got in this way, 
being added to the purple extracted by the 
ftloobol, will form a liquid with a color deeper, 



VINICULTURE OF fLAHKT. 



117 



L in proportion to the coloring niatter iu the 

K-{^na. Such is the theory, aud such the prac- 

' litis toirte wants color; it vever had auf- 

laent cutthig,^ say the yintnerB, and the vint- 

fuers are right. 

■'From all this we may conclude A^mn, that 

J' the addition of brandy, except brandying in the 

fermenting vat, woiild be useless, so far as 

coloring is concerned, unless for wines of low 

alcoholic strength aud not much acid. Unhap- 

I pily such is not the case, and under the cnn- 

Isideration of the coloring, as of many others, 

f they have much need of it. 

* It is not in fact without risk, that we bring 
L musts still warm from fermentation having set 
I in, in contact with mucli air. Do what we will, 
aid people are often heediuBs about it, tlie wine 
■ becomes more or less sour; it becomes in part 
f'rinegar; aud iu exchange for the beautiful color 
■'given to it artificially by coloring matt-ers, it 
I becomes the most disagreeable to the palate, 
natid the most indigestible conceivable, 

" Consequently for all light red wiues, wheth- 
r acid or not, brandying in the fermenting vat 
roduces the happiest results upon their color- 
^ matter. As concerns fortifying in the cask 
t is clear tliat as there are no skins for it to act 
^on, it can do nothing to assist the coloring; 
fot if it does no good, it does no harm. 



118 VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

" We Lave said already that brandying pre- 
cipitated the cream of tartar, and neutralized the 
acids by forming ethers in combination with 
them. Now, if we add brandy to wines, after 
being put in cask, which owe their color in 
great part to their acids, necessarily the red 
coloring matter, which is not soluble except in 
presence of the acid salts, will disappear and 
fall down with the lees; and this is just what 
happens. If any one doubts, let him ask the 
vineyardists of the South (of France). Truly, 
as it happens, this is a matter of minor consid- 
eration with them, as their wines are overload- 
ed with color, and become rather an advantage 
as it helps them to clear aud brighten; but it is 
a diflerent matter in the case of deep-colored 
acid red wines. 

** Consequently, as far as color is concerned, 
braudying, except brandying while in the fer- 
menting vat, is useful for wines of low alcoholic 
ntrongth, whether acid or not — and the addition 
of brandy to wines of the South (of France) 
wliich are but slightly acid, while it would be 
beneficial rather than otherwise to them, would 
be highly injurious to acid wines of other dis- 
triotB; and consequently if some day free use of 
brandy be allowed to all France, care will have 
taken about this important difference. 
the different kinds of fermentation, the 



VINICULTURE OF CLAHET. 



119 



addition of brandy exerts even a, gi'nuter iniiu- 
3 on the keeping of wines, but tliia iutiueuce 
may prove either salutary or injurious, accord- 
ing as it i» used with due precaution or not. 
'A liquid like the must of the grape, left to 
; itself at the ordinary temperature, il' it does not 
I heat mnch in the act of fermenting, feraients 
I' always spontaneously, and the fermentation is 
I alooholic, and nothing but alcoholic; it is the 
} sugar which is split up — part forming alcohol, 
land the rest disappearing as gaa. HhouJd the 
I temperature, however, rise above 30^^ ceati- 
I grade, the sugar may still be broken up, and 
T the result be lactic acid, in wldch case tho wine 
I must suffer severely. Happily, in the ease of 
I grapes, this kind of fermentation rarely hap- 
1 pens, and so we wont waste time about it. 

"Meanwhile, if at a temperatuie of 20^ or 25^ 
' C, the air has free access, there is a tendency 
to form acetic acid, and to [iroduce more or 
less vinegar. In this instance the vinegar is 
formed at the expense of the alcohol. By the 
heat of the cellar, howev.r, as time goes on, 
with free access of air, tlie acetic fermentation 
mBj be produced — above all if the vinegar 
germ is already in the wine. This is not un- 
lommon when the casks are left to lie long with- 
out having been filled np completely. 

"As to the putrid fermentation, which is tlie 



l» vistccLFTUs: or claret. 

hti^, tik» » BdOrt cauBsed br dte surdiaiiiie piin- 
etpje of the graf)€s like the odiezSr \mk from 
jKMfte albaiaeikoid prizhcipJea, nov bot little 
niKJer^tood, periuips from tiie ferment. This 
diseat-ie » most froqueiiitlT notieed in wines with 
little aeid« alec^iolic or not. Fiom dH this we 
efmelude that the alcoholic feimenlalion makes 
the wine^ the ot?ier fezmentatioDS min it. 

*' On aMing brattdy to tci»e in ikt catt^ as 
affhding itt ketpt^tg prrqieriie^. — In the meantime 
what are the reasons whr the wines of the South 

m 

ffA France)^ eren the most spiritnous. will not 
keep withoat additional alcohol? 

*^ It is necessary, first of aU, to distinguish 
between alcoholic wines and snch as have hard- 
ly 10 per cent, of alcohol, because in the South 
there are manv of this sort, the old-fashioned 
boiled wines, (tinhosde caldeira.) 

** Confining ourselves for the present to these 
latter, it may suffice to observe that thev are at 
once, both only slightly acid, moderately alco- 
holic, and deficient of tannin, that is, they 
are short of the three elements which make wine 
keep, and beyond this, being in the warmest 
climate of France, they do not fnlfiU any of the 
reriuisite conditions of a firm wine; they are not 
tliat — and they easily change. 

**Now, as to the very spirituous wines, the 
cause of their want of firmness is somewhat 



VINieULTUIiE OF CLARET. 121 

more complex. The grapes with wliicJi this 
class of winea is mado are so aacchariue that if 
all theii' sugar should be convei'ted into alco- 
hol, as ia the case with moderately saccharine 
gi'apoa, t.he strougtli would often exceed 18 per 
cent, of alcohol. Since fermentation stops at 
this strength, {wr at one a good ileal lower — 
Translator] it follows that such wines uontaio 
nearly always an excess of sugar uuchauged, 

(■which, upon the least evaporation of the spirit, 
the slightest elevation of the temperature, or the 
smallest diminution of atmospheric pressure — in 
fine, at any moment they stand ready to return 
to fermenting. Well, among the tbousamla of 
these possible occurrences, more or less percep- 
tible, some one may be expected to happen every 
day; and so those winea are in a perjietual state 
of feeble fermentation, which is enough to hold 
them in a continual bad state, and which ren- 
ders them more liable to pass into acetic or 
1 even pubid fermentation, which happens, how- 
I over slightly the other preservative elements 
I diminish in quantity or potency. 

" Now, how to obviate these seriouH acci- 
l- dents '! As to the very spirituous wiuea, it is 
Bssary to mhl ivater at the time of the vint- 
t^ge, to mo<lify their tendency to become too 
Calcoholic, so that their exccus of sugar may be 
['broken up during fermentation, or else, when 



VZ2 yjyji CL TL'RE K»F CLARET. 

they arte l»eiiig drawn oat of the fermentiiig 
vatH into ciLsks, to &dd so mucli alcohol as to 
raifie them abore the point at which feimenta- 
tiou is poasiLley and this is the occasion when 
their aIcH:»hc>Iic strength is raised to 18 per cent. 
Now, as reipLris the weak wines of the South, it 
1h necessarr \o add to them cream of tartar and 
tiiuuin, or k« dose them with brandy, and this 
\H wliat is done. 

" Whjt \f>: :>.?.« ft7v of alcohol in wiiie. — Over 
mill aliOTe its direct action, the alcohol dimin- 
MiisH the acidity of acid wines, develops in them 
mi agrc-eaVjle taste and perfume, increases their 
iUfUit, and thereby renders useless the danger- 
oiiH prai^tices had recourse to for that purpose. 

** iWsiUilying produces all these felicitous re- 
fill in, and more than all, imparts to wines such 
a tiviHtU'MH tliat under its influence they can face 
UiM lonpreHt voyages under the extremes of tem- 
iihiatuH't and resist the deleterious action of 
l^liM iiioHt unwholesome cellars." 

Ho far Haron Thenard. 

Uhvit^winK all this exposition, it appears that, 

IM Mh« (ipinion of Baron Thenard, brandying is 

HM Ml((*Htti(Ht iiHoful and even necessary in many 

(<MMf(M fni' Mh) improvement and keeping of wines. 

IliM vipWM agroo with the practice of many 

i^m, Now, it is but due to him to say 

i in Ml^ propriotur of very extensive vine- 



y/NlCULTUIlE OF CLAJIKT. 



Iyiirda in Burgundy, Hud that the ritro wiuuw of 
J3\Lrffnrn-ly are hardly ever under iiuy circiim- 
stancos fortified. The Hame is tLe casa with 
the wines of the Medoc, and other vinicultural 
ceiitrea, which produce the finest of pxuce gen- 
uine wines. Portifying may be useful and even 
necessary in many cases, but it is not indispen- 
sable for all wiues, like racking and clarifying. 
If we read attentively the above extracts from ' 
Bnron Thenard' s works, we shall easily perceive 

»that it ia only in the treatment of wines full of 
acid, with little alcohol, and such aa are flat 
and deficient in tannin and tartaric acid, al- 
thongli they have au excess of sugar and color, 
that the use of brandy becomes necessary. 

When the component principles of wine are 

nicely balanced, as is the case in ripe wines, 
made and kept in good condition) the addition 
of brandy is, to say the least, useless. Of 
ooui-ae, it may operate as a remedial agent iu 
wines by natiire defective, such as, for exam- 
ple, most of the green wines of the Minho 
(Portugal), or even for mature wines naturally 
f coarse and badly made, 

In efi'ect, alcohol is the most active preserva- 
tive agent of wine, still when its percentage goes 
I outside of certain limits, the wine loses those 
' properties which are the most valuable as a 
hygienic and alimentary drink. All wino hold- 



124 VINICULTURE OF CLARET, 

ing more than fifteen per cent, of absolute alco- 
hol becomes an exciting beverage, needing to 
be used in moderation, and cannot enter into 
the list of good food wines. Wines of that 
strength, and upwards, have their place among 
liqueurs and fancy wines; and the modern taste 
relegates them exclusively to the department of 
liqueurs and luxuries. V 

Thus all the brandyirig that we practice on 
wines of food and daily consumption, should 
never go beyond fifteen per cent, of absolute 
alcohol, or rather 14.5. Binding ourselves by 
this rule we shall obtain the advantage of being 
able to introduce our wines into England under 
the one shilling (25 cts.) per Imperial gallon, 
just as the most part of the French wines are 
admitted, and will be so long as the present 
tariff exists. 

Brandying may be done in various ways, and 
on different occasions. It may be done in the 
casks, or in the fermenting vessel before the 
wine is drawn off. In Portugal the brandying 
is in general done in the casks. Some do it 
just as the wine is put into cask, before the 
slow fermentation has ceased. This is what is 
usually done in the Douro, in making port wine; 
which in that particular instance may have 
a raison d'etre, which does not concern us now, 
but which finds no place in the making of pure 



VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 



125 I 



geimine wines, because it would atop tlie light I 
fermentation so necessaiy for the proper for- 
mation of wine. Others, and this is the case ] 
generally, add spirit only after racking ii 
March. This brandy can be added only to in- 
crease the alcoholic strength, make np for any | 
little loss of spirit by racking, or help in the 
clarifying which then takes place. 

The use of brandy during fermentation I 
proper is not in use in Portugal; still, writers ] 
on wine matters recommend it as the most con- ! 
venient and efficacious way in cases where it 
would he either useful or necessary. And be- | 
I yond all doubt if the object be to establish 
equilibrium among the elements of the wine, 
[ or to supply the want of sngar which should 
'e supplied the spirit, or to diminish aciditj' 
I and forward the formation of ethers, or to dis- 
I solve a larger proportion of colonng matters, 
1 on no occasion will the effect of it be more 
I nseful than at the cefisation of the tumnltnons 
I fermentation; while yet the liquid is warm and 
contact with the skins, etc. The quantity 
I of brandy to be added in this ease must be cal- 
kcolated upon the relative saccharine richness 
I of the grapes, and always so as never to be ex- 



The brandy wliich should be used to fortify 
wine, under whatever circumstances this opera- 



126 VINICULTURE OF CLARET, 

tion has to be performed, must be good wine 
brandy distilled from wines of low alcoholic 
strength. Alcohols obtained from grains, from 
beets and other roots, cane sugars, etc., recti- 
fied and afterwards reduced to any convenient 
strength, how pure so ever they may be, and 
perhaps on the very account of their purity, 
never harmonize with wine in the same way 
as good brandy directly distilled from wine. 

In like manner, with alcohol chemically pure 
diluted with water, cognac cannot be made, un- 
less the proper spirit of wine be present, 
(onnnthic ether, etc ,) for all that its chemical 
composition may be identical. What practice 
has made clear, is that the purer and more 
highly rectified the alcohol is, the more reluc- 
tant is it to amalgamate with the component 
principles of wine of a delicate constitution. 

The need of brandying afterwards may be 
anticipated and supplied by the addition of 
cane sugar while fermentation is in progress. 
By being fermented, this sugar furnishes the 
requisite amount of alcohol to fortify the wine. 
The price of the very finest sugar (the only 
sugar which can be used without introducing a 
bad taste into the wine), is the chief reason for 
not using it for fortifying weak acid wines, but 
when we speak of weak acid wines, like the 
"green wines" of the Minho, which have not 
more than 6 or 7 per cent, of alcohol, the ben- 



VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 



127 j 



efit in relation to botli atreugth ami quality de^l 
I'ivable from this praiitice is manifest. 

I cannot here and now refer to any results o 
direct experiments made in the Minho with the^ 
ahove object, though I have recommended it 
more than once. However, this plan of im- 
proving and fortifying weak acid wines, has 
been in use in other countries for a long time, 
and it would be well if onr viniculturista of the^ 
Minho would give it a trial. 

According to the practice adopted in Bur- 
gundy, the sugar should be put in when fer- 
mentation is nearly over, the quantity being 
1,700 grams (3 pounds 8 oimces) for each (&-<J 
gree of strength which we msh to produce i 
each hectolitre of wine. 

The sugar must bo first dissolved in a suffi 
cient qnantitity of the same must into which it 
is going to be put, and when the solution ia | 
added to the fermenting liquid, the whole n 
be thoroughly stirred and incorporated. Upon' | 
the addition being made, fermentation sets in j 
an«w, and as soon as it ceases, the wine may ! 
be drawn off in the usual way. 

Some practical viniculturists have ( 
tliat wines so treated, show for a long while an 
inclination to ferment and to turn, but it does 
not always happen; but to prevent any danger, 
the means are at hand. It needs only that we ' 
add 2 litres of brandy to each hecfohtiv of wing, 



128 VINICULTURE OF CLARET, 

before drawing it off. Common pomace brandy 
serves for the purpose; for according to Vis- 
count Verge tte — Lamotte, the offensive taste of 
such brandy is not imparted to the wine when 
put into the fermenting vat. The cost of this 
is quite trifling, and that of the sugar not very 
much. In the instance of wines which have to 
be sold very cheap, the additional cost will be 
felt; but it is better for the purchaser to obtain 
a decent article, and for the proprietor to have 
a firm wine than a detestable beverage which 
does not deserve the name of wine. On this 
account 1 do not hesitate to advise the vigner- 
ons of the Minho who may try to improve their 
green wines, to do so either by adding sugar 
during fermentation, or by adding brandy her 
fore drawing off — for that is what they need, 
and not brandying after being put in cask. 

For the same purpose as sugar, there is com- 
monly used in Portugal and other countries, 
fresh must, concentrated to the consistence of 
syrup, called arrohe. It is then ready to be ad- 
ded to the fermenting must. Where the musts 
and wines are very acid, as is the case in the 
Minho, often containing less than 10 per cent, 
of alcohol, arrobe would be out of place, be- 
cause the acids and salts are fixed in it, and 
would only augment the quantity already too 
great in the wine. 



METHOD DEVISED BY M. LOUIS 
BARRAL. 



I will now explain a process devised by M. 
F Loais Barral, a scientific cliemisfc and vineyard 
proprietor in the Herault, which is destined to 
improve, and cause ordinary wines, whatever 
be their nature, to keep good. At the Interna- 
tional Exhibition of 1867, a medal was awarded 
to it on account of the excellent results obtain- 
L ed by the use of it. The process is very easy, 
', and within reach of any vineyardist, as may be 
Been in the condensed form, as given by thein- 
I ventor himself. In bis condensed form we have 
I an epitome of every operation of wine-making; 
I and so those who think well to adopt his inven- 
' tioii, may follow his insti'uctions literally. 

Following is the regular order of procedure : 

lat. Tread, crush, or by any means reduce 
L the grapes to a uniform pulp. 

"id. Leave the must to ferment for only five 
six days under ordinary conditions of tem- 
I perature, say 16 to 18 degrees Centigi-ade. 

3. Draw off all the wine and put it in casks 
t apart. 



130 VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

4. Press the pomace. 

5. Take from a portion of this pomace while 
quite fresh, the skins and seeds, and a portion 
of the stalks. 

6. Introduce this selected portion of pomace 
into a cask with a large bung; then pour over it 
as much high proof brandy as will cover it, and 
leave it to macerate, after hermetically closing 
the bung hole, and never disturbing it until 
February following, when it is necessary to 
rack it off. This is what M. Barral calls ^Han- 
nic ivine alcohol, ' ' To get the residue out of the 
skins, etc., it is necessary to wash them with 
two or three successive portions of wine, and 
finally to press them. The wine and pressings 
must be kept separate from the brandy. When 
they have become clear they need racking. 

To improve ordinary wine, which was drawn 
from the fermenting vat into casks, it is neces- 
sary to employ one litre and a quarter, or a 
litre and a half of the ''tannic wine alcohol" to 
each hectolitre (about 3 pints to 26 gallons). 
The wine got by washing the pomace may be 
used at the same time, and in the same propor- 
tion. When the wine has been prepared as 
directed, it is desirable to clarify it, and after 
a few weeks, rack it. 

The process just described and employed by 
M. Barral on ordinary wines of bad years in 



VINICULTURE OF CLARET, 131 

the south of France, is equally applicable to 
wines which are always ordinary in many coun- 
tries. The foundation of it is the addition of 
brandy charged with tannin, one of the best 
preservative principles of wine. The clarifying 
with isinglass or gelatine (colla), which should 
always follow the brandying, will soften down 
any asperity or roughness which possibly may 
have been communicated by the tannin. By 
these operations the wine gains in strength, in 
keeping power and in color. 

]p[ districts where on account of the generally 
good quality of the wines, the above process 
becomes needless; nevertheless, it is well to 
prepare a certain quantity, both with the red 
and white grape pomace, separately, for it may 
be required, either to facilitate clarifying when 
there is a deficiency of tannin, or to treat wines 
which become diseased for want of it. 



ON WHITE AND PALE WINES 

(VINHOS BRANCOS E PALHETES.) 



Desiring as I do to limit this treatise to an 
exposition of the most convenient methods of 
preparing pure red wines of general consump- 
tion, I might have properly omitted all mention 
of tvhite wines, the manufacture of which among 
us is very limited, relatively to the red. As to 
the pale wines (palhetes), the making of them is 
perhaps a little more extensive than of ordinary 
white wines. Still they are made for local 
consumption only, and trade, especially for ex- 
port, does not purchase them. I consider, how- 
ever, that I ought to say something about them, 
because, though the business in them is small 
and local, there is no reason why they should 
not have a position in foreign markets, and 
sooner or later a good business may be done in 
them. 

Setting aside especial kinds of white wines, 
chiefly liqueur wines, such as the Muscatels, 
the Malvasias, and the wines of Madeira, of 
which I do not intend to treat in this treatise, 
one may say in a general way that the white 
wines of Portugal belong to two distinct classes, 



VlNWOLTORii OF QLAR 



I viz., dry white wines for ordinary consumption, 
and alcoholic ones, the cliief use of whieli is to I 
blend with red wines, to give them the aem- ' 
blance of age. In all the essentials of wine- 
making there is no difference between red and 
white wines. They are made exclusively with 
white grapes, whilst the reds are made either 
with red gi-apes alone, or, as is more u-^ual, 
with a mixture of white and red, the largest 
part being red. The pale or pallet wines are 
made with a preponderance of white over red 
(Schiller wines); consequently there is a wide 
difference between our method of making white 
and SchtU^r wines and those in vogue in foreign , 
wine countries. I 

Full-bodied, spirituous white wine, princi- 
pally those used in the commerce of Oporto to 
I mix with red wines, are made exclusively with 
I white grnpes, and in exactly the same way as 
I the red; and consequently, since tliey are fer- 
I mented on the skins and stalks, they acquire an 
I exceedingly deep yellow color, partly, no doubt, 
from the oxidation of the organic matter of the 
I skins. They receive a veiy considerable pro- 
I portion of brandy immediately after being drawn 
t off the fermenting cask, which preserves a cer- 
tain amount of sweetness and preventing fur- 
[ ther fermentation. Wines of this chameter, 
very valuable for tlie purpose for which tliey 



134 VINICULTURE OF CLARET, 

are intended, can in no sense be considered as 
genuine food wines for ordinary consumption; 
therefore I consider this is not the place to 
treat of them. 

The making of dry white wines differs from 
the foregoing only in so far as the slow fer- 
mentation in the cask is not suspended nor the 
second fermentation by the use of brandy, but 
allowed to become as dry as possible, the same 
as red wines. From the nature of the grapes 
of which they are made, white wines deposit a 
much more considerable quantity of lees than 
the reds, and consequently require more fre- 
quent racking, and at least one clarifying with 
isinglass, or where it cannot be had, with the 
best gelatine, aided by an addition of cream of 
tartar. 

Musts of white grapes fermented on the skins 
like those of red grapes, yield wines equally 
dry, relishing and wholesome, and may take 
their place among food wines, and are prefer- 
red by some to red wines, as being lighter; 
still, the great majority of men prefer red wines 
for every-day use. It is not meant here to con- 
trovert what statistics show plainly enough con- 
cerning the consumption of white wines in En- 
gland, which is far greater than that of reds; 
but we should not forget that the greater part 
of the white wines drank in England are called 



VINIOOLTURE OF CLARET. 



Sherries, generous alcoholic wines, which, just I 
like the Porta, belong to an entirely difTerentl 
class. If we compare only the genuine red I 
winea(the French Clarets, for esample) and tbs I 
Prench whites consumed there, and excluding J 
the Champagnes and liqueur wines, we shall' I 
perceive that the difference is considerable in I 
favor of reds for daily use. Whatever ths:! 
cause of this preference may be, the fact iaf 
that the actual increase of consumption is alto-" 
gether in favor of pure red wines, without ( 
eluding, liowever, whites of a like nature, ati 
requiring certain qualities to be pres.nt in theU 
which cannot be imparted by out present Pop- 
tugueee methods. 

Genuine white wines must be free from all \ 
roughness and astringencj, must have a slighi'l 
sweetness and be very light, perfectly clear and I 
bright, as well as nearly colorless. These I 
qualities can be secured solely by fermenting 
without the skins or stalks; and so the metliods 
in general use, both in France and Germany, 
witli very slight modifications, consists 
pressing the grapes and allowing the must to j 
run, and putting it at once to ferment andi j 
leaving it to ritn through its whole course, < 
and giving it afterwards the same care and' -I 
cleanliness as required in the cape of rod wine. J 
The statement of the ju-ocess is simple enough, ' 



[ 



136 



VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 



but the cares and preeantionB required in prac- 
tice are very minute when the aafeat and hap- 
piest results are aimed at. Above and before 
all, there is indispensable need of the most ex- 
treme cleanliness of all utensils whateveTj that 
are to be brought into contact \yith the grapes 
or with the must, or with the wine when made. 
If the grapes are to be ti'odden before being 
pressed, which is convenient, for as much as it 
can be rapidly done, allowing the pulp to run 
out so as not to allow fermentation to set in, 
the bench and press ought to have been scru- 
pulously washed even till the water ran out 
clear, to obviate the introduction of any for- 
eign matter which by possibility might impart 
its own taste or smell to the wine. The same 
cleanliness is demanded for the casks, etc., 
which should never have been used for any but 
white wine, and supposing them to be new, any 
taste of the wood should have been washed out 
of them. For white wine the grapes should 
be quite fuUy ripe, and all dry, imperfect or al- 
tered berries should be picked otf them. 

Generally, the must of white grapes deposits 
a deal more lees than that of red grapes, and 
as a consequence it clears with far more diffi- 
culty and is liable to repeated fermentations. 
In order to avoid this troiible, and preserve the 
sweetness which it ought to have, and that fine 



VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 



137 



I texture wLicL forms oue of its moat iughlj i 
teemed qualities, it is desirable to remove as ' 
far as may be, the biilii of tlie sediment, even 
before fermentation becomes establislied. 'IVo 
methods ai-e in ii.ss to do this: Ist. Some 1 
makers receive the must in comparatively I 
small tuba with taps, and as soon as the mnst- 1 
has foi'med a tiiiuk acnm on the surface they f 
decant through the tap the wine now separated 
from the sediment that has fallen, and from the 

I scum which Itae risen to the surface. This 
sort of decanting is carried on with other tuba 
like the tiint, so long hs the must goes on form- 
ing new sediments and new scums, in fact till 
it ceases to form thick scum, when it is put 
into casks, and when the fermentation will form 
and work through more gently than had the 
above operations not taken placo. The casks I 
should be lilted quite full, so that the scum 
that forms dnnng the more energetic stages of 
farmentatioii may escape freely through th*e 
bung-hole, and not fall into the body of the 
wine where they would be ready to renew fer- 
\ mentation. When fermentation is qnite fin- 
ished, the casks should be filled up with tlie 
oe kind of wine, always, and subjected 
I to all the same care and precautions as 
I mentioned already for red wines. 2d. The 
other method of preserving a part of their 
t flagar in wliite wines, which is easier in prac- 



138 VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 

tice and equally effective, consists in putting 
the must, just as it is made, in casks well sul- 
phured, in order to arrest fermentation for 
some time. Under these conditions the greater 
part of the gross sediment becomes deposited 
before fermentation commences, and as soon 
as the must looks milky it is racked or trans- 
ferred to other casks similarly sulphured. 
This operation may be repeated as soon as fer- 
mentation begins to appear, and again, if need- 
ful, until the greater part of the thick sediment 
has been removed. The fermentation is in 
this way retarded by the sulphurous gas, and 
the larger portion of the ferment is eliminated, 
and so a certain portion of the sugar is preserved 
in the wine and the taste of the fruit, so pleas- 
ant to the palate. 

Fine, sweet white wines need to be clarified 
as completely as possible, to enable them to 
keep. This is an indispensable condition. 
Isinglass, in the proportion of 50 grams 
(IJ pounds) per pipe. This isinglass should 
be first well bruised with a wooden mallet, 
then cut very fine and put to soak in a small 
quantity of the wine we are about to clarify, 
and which is to be repeated until the isinglass 
will absorb no more; then a little hot water is 
to be added and the whole rubbed up well and 
strained through a cloth. To the thick liquid 
we add a quart or so of wine and beat it well 



^^P on 



VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 



139 



I 



once more, so as to raise a froth, and then use 
it in the ordinary way. When tlie wine has 
clarified, it is good practice to always add 
a small quantity of good brandy. 

Wliite wines can be made with red grapes, 
and good writers on wines consider tliem the 
best and finest; still tlie bulk of the white 
wines are made with white grapes, unless the 
champagnes, in which red or white are used 
indiscriminately. 

The winoH (vinkoH jiaf-heks) whicli are made 
expressly with brief fermentation on the skins 
of the red grapes, are very pleasant, because 
they are light, soft and delicate They are in- 
termediate between the reds and the whites. 
The making of them presents no difficulty. 

After making red wine, if the skins show 
no sign of alteration, they can be utilized along 
with the whit-e grapes to make an excellent 
Schiller wine, of a more or less deep color, iu 
proportion to the length of the fermentation on 
the red skins. In this way tbe wine is soon 
isnade, being forwarded by the state in which 
■the red skins are when used; but under all cir- 
Bumstances the wine should be got into casks 
lefore fermentation entirely ceases, to prevent 
itB acquiring the harsh taste of the pomace. 
!he Schillers ought to be light and soft, and as 

consequence, should mature and become 
ly to be used in a short space of time. 



BOTTLING. 



The proprietor usually sells his wine in cask, 
and merchants for the most part export it in the 
same manner; nevertheless there is no doubt 
that if the grower had the means of keeping it 
till it was fit for consumption, or for bottling, 
and he could with economy do it in his own 
cellar, he would have among other considera- 
tions the satisfaction of knowing that its repu- 
tation rested on its intrinsic merits. The pro- 
ducers of fine wines have a great advantage in 
selling them in bottle and with their distinctive 
labels. On this account, I think it worth while 
to say something about bottling, limited as my 
remarks necessarily must be in a compendium 
of wine matters, like the present. 

Bottling is an operation needing to be care- 
fully performed, for in many cases the achieve- 
ment of the highest qualities of the wine de- 
pends on it. Generally speaking, fine, delicate 
wines do not arrive at their maximum of perfec- 
tion till they have been for some time in bottle. 

Many are the conditions needful to be attend- 
ed to, in order to do this last work in a proper 
manner, such as the state of the wine, and of 



VIHIGULTURh! OF GLARET. 



141 



tlie weather, the materials emplojed, aud the 
method of working. 

As to the state of the wine, it must have 
I attained such a condition of ripeness as that it 
can get no more good by being left longer in 
I cask, a point which varies not only between one 
wine and another, but between the same winea; 
that ia to aay, between wines grown on the sam^ 
Tines, and on the same soil, bnt of different vin- 
tages, and even between caska of identical 
wines, for it is well known that not only do the 
I wines of some years mature sooner than those 
I of othei's, but those of the same year, of the 
le vintage, and of identical make, will vary, 
I due only to their having been put in separate 
\ casks, and subjected to slight differences of 
I temperature. There is no better means to judge 
of this than the pa1at« of a cellar man accostom- 
i ed to treat them. Wine must never be bottled 
I unless it be perfectly still, clean and transpar- 
rent. The smallest want of any of these eondi. 
I tions might easily ruin it, consequently it be- 
I comes indisisensable to clarify before bottling. 
From what has just been said, it is clear tliat 
j no particular age can be assigned for bottling 
wines. In all cases, it ought neither to be so 
old as to have begun to decline, nor so yonng 
as not to have shown its predominant qualities. 
Of the two extremes, the better would be to 



116 



VINiaULTURE OF CLARET. 



customary in the beat wine connti-ies; and in 
this case it is indispensable to covei' the top of 
the bottle and cork with a composition of roain, 
Burgundy pitch, a little yellow wax and some 
coloring matter, such aa red lead. 

After bottling, and while the wine ia under- 
going its changes, it ought to lie at reat for a 
good long time, if not a wliole year. During 
thia period it ia proper that the bottlea should 
lie in a clean store, and always on their sides to 
keep the corks moist. Light table wines of low 
alcoholic strength are very liable to take 
"floui'" if the above preoautiona of excluding 
air at the corking be not attended to. If the 
wine after bottling forma a deposit, as often 
hajjpens, it will fall to the low side, and in 
handling the bottle, drawing the cork, and de- 
canting the wine, nice care should be used. 

From the moment the wine has been bottled 
with all the precautions above indicated, we 
might suppose it to be out of the reach of the 
air'a action, and any effect it could produce; still 
changes go on in it, which for the most part 
improve it, slow though they may be. These 
changes are liable to be affected by temperature 
of the cellar', by light, and by being shaken; so 
the cellar itself requires to be considered. Tem- 
perature and light are essential conditions. 
Wines that are not very alcoholic gain by being 



VINICVLTURE OF CLARET. 



^B kept in a temperature atabout lO'-'Oentigrade, or 
50^ Falirenheit, and where the liglit is diffused 
and not very bright. Direct sun-light is always 
injurious to such wines, not alone by unequal 
heating, but by its action on the uoloring mat- 
ter. Full-bodied wines of much alcoholic 
strength improve best in stores whose temper- 
ature is much higher than that for table winea. 
In a future chapter concerning the improvement 
of wines, I shall have occasion to treat at some 
length on the action of heat on wines. 

Having now followed the process of wine 
mating, as far as pure, genuine, alimentary 
! wines are concerned, from the vintage to the 
I bottling, when they undergo their last and final 
I atage of perfectioning, I now consider the first 
I part of this work finished, not without the con- 
I.TXction of having said all that is necessary to 
linduce and animate our vineyardists to mann- 
Ifacture those kinds of wine best suited to in- 
e a demand for our produce, and throw 
lute into oar commerce. I have by no means 
f exhausted the subject'. It needs still large de- 
iTelopment and special teachings, which may at 
a future day form the object of a more exten- 
jrive treatise; but in writing this book, mi/ su- 
€ and onlji intention w to place tn ike havds 
our viticuUwrisl'i compp-ndioua inatiitt:tions, 
3 enable them to follow along the way which. 



142 



VINIVVLTURK OF CLARET. 



bottle while it is too yonng. lunide the b 
where no air can get to it, it exists under differ- 
ent conditions fi'om what it hud when in the 
cask, where its vapors could escape and air 
could enter. Nevertheless, reactions continue 
to go on among ite constituent principles, the 
results being new products, as yet but little 
studied, which improve its quality and develop 
its bouquet — consequently it ought to have 
abundant vitality \\hen bottled. 

The best time for bottling is perfectly calm 
and still weather, during autumn and winter, as 
far as the end of March, when the atmosphere 
is serene and oold and dry, with no south wind 
nor threat of thunder, is a good time to bottle 
wines. The reason is the same as that for 
racking under similar circumstances. 

Attention must be paid to the quality of the 
bottles and the corks. Becent observations 
have (iroved that the quality of the glass of 
which bottles are made is not a matter of indif- 
ference, as concerns the preservation of the 
wine. The glass of which ordinary bottles are 
made is a multiple silicate of alkaline bases, 
both earthy and metallic; all the more easily 
fused and wrought in proportion as the alkalLue 
bases used are more abundant. Now the softer 
the glass is, the more readily it is attacked by 
the water and acids coutained in wine; for the 



.ttle, I 




VJMiaULTURli OF CLAum'. 14S'l 

excess of alkuli may become ilissolved in the I 
water, 01' more likely be ooiubined with the 
acide, to the iujiuy of the composition of ilie 
wine. In such bottles, greeu winea holding 
much acid, cannot be kept long; and even the 
others, rich as they may be, run the risk of in- 
jury. Consequently miich care is necessary, I 
and as few can verify for themselves, whether j 
the glass is good or not, the safest com-se i 
ask an expert in such matters. 

When satisfied that the quality of the bot- 
tles is what it should be, the nest indispensable 
step is to have them washed both inside and 
out, perfectly clean, till not a speck remains, 
nor any foreign body, or any smell whatever. I 
Never, on any pretext use shot. There is al- 
ways great danger of some corns remaining 
fast between the bottom and sides of a bottle, 
and eseapiug notice, wliich will afterwards be- 
come dissolved in the wine and impart poison- 
ous properties to it, and not alone from the I 
lead, but also from the arsenic which usually i 
is to be found in shot. Metallic chains made ' 
of small rings on purpose, are certainly prefer- ' 
able for loosening impurities in old bottles. 

When the bottles have been washed as de- 
scribed, they must be left to draiu till they are 
■perfectly dry; and for this purpose must be 1 
placed sufficiently long with the neck down in J 
some kind of frame or rack. 



144 



VINICULTURE OF OLARET. 






For eloaing bottles, Iiardlj anytl 
corka are used, and it is very essential that the 
cork be of good quality, fine, solid and elastic, 
and the new corks well cut and free from de- 
fects. Bottling presents no difficulties, but 
needs discernment, cleanliness and practical 
experience. For the rest, the barrel about to 
bottled should have been placed at some suffi- 
cient height to allow the wine to be eouvenient- 
lydrawn off, and as it is customaryto remove the 
bung it is always well to fix over the hole some 
cotton wool or lint, to filter the air and pie- 
vent any germs from entering that might injure 
the wine. The same precaution should always 
be taken when wine is used from the cask, and 
even still more carefully, on account of its lon- 
ger Gxpoanre to the air. In place of the sim- 
ple cotton filter it is safer to fix in the buug- 
holo of the cask out of which wine is drawn for 
daily use, a tin tube in shape of the letter S in 
the curved part of which the cotton wool is to 
be piit (or water) through which the air has to 
pass; and while doing so, free itself from germs 
and dust, which it brought along with it. 

The bottles ought to be filled completely, and 
when possible should be corked with a corking 
machine, and needle to admit the escape of air. 
When however that cannot be done, the next 
effort should be directed to leaving the least 



VINICULTURE OF CLARET. 145 

l.(>OB9ible air-space Ijfitween the bottom of the 
.sork and the top of the liquor. The corks 
K'Should be well soaked either in the wine to be 
■ t>uttled 01' in good brandy. These bottling ma- 
J«hines are quite cummon now-a-days, coat little, 
ftare very handy, and save time and labor when 
considerable work haa to be done, and prevent 
B'lireakage as far as possible. 

There is a vast advantage in the cork's touch- 
piiig the top of the wine, to the entire exclosion 
of air. This is obtained by the use of what is 
called the "needle." It is u small steel instru- 
ment with a slot, which when placed against 
the neck of the bottle, forma a channel to ad- 
mit the escape of all air. If the bottle be fuil, 
the pressure of the cork upon the fluid wUl force 

»aa much out as is required. When the cork is 
driven home, the needle is drawn out, and the 
Bpace it occupied becomes filled completely by 
tlie cork. 

Supposing tlie bottles to have been well cork- 
ed with f;ood carefully made corks, the bottles 
may remain for a long time without need of 
either capsules or sealing, as is usually done 
when they pass off into commerce, provided the 
cellar is dry and airy. Unfortunately, the 
greater part of the corks met with in trade are 
far from being good, so miieh so as to render it 

I impossible to brand them with hot iron, as is 
L 



