Google 



This is a digital copy of a book lhal w;ls preserved for general ions on library shelves before il was carefully scanned by Google as pari of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

Il has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one thai was never subject 

to copy right or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often dillicull lo discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher lo a library and linally lo you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud lo partner with libraries lo digili/e public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order lo keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial panics, including placing Icchnical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make n on -commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request thai you use these files for 
personal, non -commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort lo Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each lile is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use. remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 

countries. Whether a book is slill in copyright varies from country lo country, and we can'l offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through I lie lull lexl of 1 1 us book on I lie web 
al |_-.:. :.-.-:: / / books . qooqle . com/| 



I 



Schlesinger Library 
Radcliffe College 



Culinary Collection 

a honor of Julia Mae 

f Le Vesinet, France 

h birthday by her 

ts: 

old and Iris Chandler 




*Li /I ., *'< 



-J* /, «. .' y- , 



W^k/. vj> 



J~(, 



'JOUrsa 



'j*:' 



' c/ 



'""^Il« 



r 



MRS. LINCOLN'S 



Boston Cook Book. 



WHAT TO DO AND WHAT NOT TO DO 

IN COOKING. 



BY 

MRS. D. A. LINCOLN, 

FIRST PRINCIPAL OF THE BOSTON COOKING SCHOOL. 

AUTHOR OF " CARVING AND SERVING," " BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN 
TEXT-BOOK," "TWENTY LESSONS IN COOKERY," 
AND "THE PEERLESS COOK BOOK." 



BOSTON: 
ROBERTS BROTHERS. 

1896. 



ifW.Ol 

ins 



Copyright, 188S. 

By Mrs. D. A. Lincoln. 



Snifafwftfl 9rm: 
John Wilson and Son, Cambridge. 



\I77 



■*. 



Ef)i0 Book is ©etitcatetJ 

TO 

MRS. SAMUEL T. HOOPER, 

President of the Boston Cooking School, 

IN RECOGNITION OF HER ZEAL IN EVERY GOOD WORK FOR THE 

BENEFIT OF WOMAN; 

AND TO 

THE PUPILS, PAST AND PRESENT. 

OF THE 

BOSTON COOKING SCHOOL, 

WHOSE ENTHUSIASM IN THEIR WORK HAS MADE THE LABOR OF 

TEACHING A DELIGHT. 



r f 



" Not to know at large of things remote 
From use, obscure and subtle, but to know 
That which before us lies in daily life, 
Is the prime wisdom." 



Milton. 



" To know what you do know, and not to know what you do not 
know, is true knowledge." — Confucius. 



PREFACE. 



To compile a book which shall be not only a collection 
of receipts, given briefly for the experienced housekeeper, 
and with sufficient clearness . for the beginner, but which 
shall also embody enough of physiology, and of the chem- 
istry and philosophy of food, to make every principle in- 
telligible to a child and interesting to the mature mind ; 
which shall serve equally well for the cook in the kitchen, 
the pupil in the school-room, and the teacher in the normal 
class, — is a difficult task. Yet the need of a book of 
moderate cost, containing in a reasonably small compass all 
this and much more, has been seriously felt b} r all who are 
engaged in teaching cookeiy. Moreover, there is a special 
reason for the publication of this work. It is undertaken 
at the urgent request of the pupils of the Boston Cooking 
School, who have desired that the receipts and lessons 
given during the last four years in that institution should 
be arranged in a permanent form. 

To one who from childhood has been trained in all de- 
tails of housework, learning by observation or by actual 
experience much that it is impossible to receive from 
books, the amount of ignorance shown by mail}- women is 
surprising. That a person of ordinary intelligence pre- 
siding over her household can be satisfied with only a 
vague conception of the common domestic methods, or 
that any true woman can see 'anything degrading in any 
fobor necessary for the highest physical condition of her 



vi Preface. 

family, would be incredible if the truth of it were not 
daily manifest. 

Happily, popular opinion now decides that no young 
lady's education is complete without a course of training 
in one or more branches of domestic work. Aud those 
who are not so fortunate as to have the best of all train- 
ing — that of actual work under a wise and competent 
mother — gladly resort to the cooking-schools for in- 
struction. 

In compiling these receipts for use in a school and in 
the family, several things were demanded. In a school 
of pupils from every class and station in life, . a great 
variety of receipts is desirable. They must be clear, 
but concise, for those who are already well grounded in 
first principles. They must be explained, illustrated, and 
reiterated for the inexperienced and the careless. They 
must have a word of caution for those who seem always 
to have the knack of doing the wrong thing. They must 
include the most healthful foods for those who have been 
made ill by improper food; the cheapest as well as the 
most nutritious, for the laboring class ; the richest and 
most elaborate^ 7 prepared, for those who can afford them 
physically as well as pecuniarily. 

These receipts are not a mere compilation. A large 
portion have accumulated during a long period of house- 
keeping; and many have been received from friends who 
are practical housekeepers. Others have been taken from 
standard authorities on cooking ; and all have been fre- 
quently and thoroughl} T tested by pupils under the eye of 
the author. As far as possible, acknowledgment has been 
made for the receipts received. Where changes and im- 
provements have been made, or where there were many 
authorities for the same formula, no credit has been given. 

Some cook-books presuppose the presence of an as- 
sistant ; but as three fourths of the women in this country 



Preface. vu 

do their own work, these receipts are arranged so as to 
require the attention of but one person. 

It is proverbial that young housekeepers are often 
greatly perplexed in attempting to provide little enough 
for only two. For their benefit many of our receipts are 
prepared on a scale of smaller measurements. 

The materials to be used are given in the order in which 
they are to be put together. They are arranged in col- 
umns, where the eye may catch them readily, or in italics 
where economy of space seemed desirable. 

Every caution or suggestion has been given at the re- 
quest of some pupil who failed to find in other books just 
what she needed ; or because, in the experience of teach- 
ing, it has been shown that, unless forewarned, pupils 
inevitably make certain mistakes. Many subjects which 
in other books are omitted or given briefly, will* be found 
to have received here an extensive treatment, because 
they have seemed of paramount importance. 

All the chemical and physiological knowledge that is 
necessary for a clear understanding of the laws of health, 
so far as they are involved in the science of cookery, is 
given in this book. Nine tenths of the women who go 
through a scientific course in seminaries never put any 
of the knowledge gained into practical use. By the time 
the}' have occasion to use such knowledge in their own 
homes, the Chemistry and Physiology have been relegated 
to the attic, where they help mice to material for their 
nests, but help no woman to apply the principles of 
science upon which the health and welfare of her house- 
hold largely depend. 

The statement will appear incredible to most people, 
and yet it is true, that many women do not know what 
the simplest things in our daity food are ; cannot tell when 
water boils, or the difference between lamb and veal, lard 
and drippings. Thej r cannot give the names of kitchen 




viii Preface. 

utensils ; do not know anything about a stove, or how to 
pare a potato. This will explain what might otherwise 
seem an unnecessary minuteness of detail. The expe- 
rience of such ignorance also suggested the sub-title of 
the " Boston Cook Book," — " What to do and what not 
to do in Cooking," — just how to hold your bowl and spoon, 
to use your hands, to regulate your stove, to wash your 
dishes ; and just how not to fail into the errors into which 
so many have stumbled before you. But, more than all, 
it is attempted to give a reason for every step taken, and 
a clear answer to any questions that are likely to arise in 
the experience of either housekeeper or cook. 



A PREFACE NOT FOR THE PUBLIC 



A word of grateful acknowledgment is due the many 
friends who have aided in this work. 

First, to my mother I owe much for her excellent judg- 
ment in training me as a child to a love for all house- 
hold work. Although it was often hard to " help mother " 
when other children were at play, the knowledge thus 
gained has proved invaluable. Every year's experience 
in teaching has made me prize more and more this early 
training. 

Also, I am deeply indebted to Miss M. S. Devereux 
for the illustrations of this book. In all my work I have 
been greatly aided by her suggestions and generous 
sympathy. 

And, lastly, I would not forget my obligations to a large 
circle of personal friends. Especially would I remember 
the one who, twenty years ago, aided me in making my 
first loaf of bread, and the many among my pupils who, 
out of their varied experience, have contributed much that 
has proved helpful. 

MARY J. LINCpLN. 
Wollaston, Mass., 1884. 



■MMMM** 



^m^^ibm^mtmm* '> iaiMWWW»» 



* ~M ~ 



' TM 1 ' -' — 






I 



CONTENTS. 



PAOB 

Introduction 1 

Bread and Bread Making 36 

"Receipts for Yeast and Bread 62 

Raised Biscuit, Rolls, etc 68 

Stale Bread, Toast, etc 75 

Soda Biscuit, Muffins, Gems, etc 80 



Waffles and Griddle-Cakes 97 

Fried Muffins, Fritters, Doughnuts, etc. . . . . . 102 

Oatmeal and other Grains 108 

Beverages Ill 

Soup and Stock 119 

Soup without Stock 146 

Fish 159 

Shell Fish 175 

Meat and Fish Sauces 187 

Eggs v 197 

Meat 210 

Beef 214 

Mutton and Lamb 232 

Veal 239 

Pork 245 

Poultry aVd Game 251 

Entrees and Meat Rechauffe 265 

Sundries 282 



xii Contents. 



PAGE 

Vegetables 289 

Rice and Macaroni 306 

Salads 309 

Pastry and Pies 316 

Pudding Sauces 328 

Hot Puddings * . 331 

Custards, Jellies, and Creams 341 

Ice-Cream and Sherbet 361 

Cake 369 

Fruit 391 

Cooking for Invalids 407 

Miscellaneous Hints 435 

The Dining-Room 439 

The Care of Kitchen Utensils 443 

An Outline of Study for Teachers 449 

Suggestions to Teachers 483 

A Course of Study for Normal Pupils 485 

Miscellaneous Questions for Examination 486 

Topics and Illustrations for Lectures on Cooker* . 490 

Course of Instruction at the Boston Cooking-School . 495 

Explanation of Terms used in Cookery 503 

List of Utensils needed in a Cooking-School . . . 508 



General Index 513 

Alphabetical Index , 529 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



PAOE 



Fig. 1. Grain of Wheat . 37 

2. Grain of Wheat with Bran removed .... 38 

3. Grain of W T heat magnified 33 

4. Yeast Plant 4q 

5. Cruller 2Q5 

6. Cruller after Folding 105 

7. Baked Fish * • . . 164 

44 8. Small Fish served whole \qq 

9. Scalloped Lobster jg3 

10. Omelet 201 

11. Orange Omelet 202 

12. Eggs and Minced Meat 205 

13. Stuffed Eggs 206 

14. Eggs a la Creme 208 

15. Diagram of Ox 212 

16. Hind Quarter of Beef ......... 212 

17. Aitch Bone 214 

•« 18. Round 215 

" 19. Back of Rump 216 

" 20. First Cut of Sirloin 216 

" 21. Sirloin Roast 217 

22. Tip of Sirloin 218 

23. First Cut of Rib 219 

" 24. Chuck Rib 219 

" 25. Fillet of Beef 222 

" 26. Mutton Duck 235 

" 27. Paper Ruffle 236 

".28. Chop 237 

" 29. " Chop in Paper 237 



tt 
it 
ti 
tt 
tt 
it 



ti 
Ct 

ti 
it 
tt 
it 
it 
tt 
if 



it 



XIV 



List of Illustrations. 



PAGE 

Fig. 30. Calf 's Heart 241 

31. Sweetbreads and Bacon 243 

32. Sweetbreads on Macaroni 244 

33. Pigeons and Spinach on Toast 264 

34. Boned Turkey, browned 265 

35. Boned Chicken, larded and baked 266 

36. Chicken in Jelly 267 

37. Meat Porcupiue ,272 

38. Croquettes 279 

39. Stuffed Potatoes 296 

40. Chicken Salad 314 

41. Lobster Salad . . - 315 

42. Bow-Knots . . . . 321 

43. Cheese Straws 322 

44. Apple Snowballs 335 

45. Orange Charlotte 348 

46. Orange Baskets 351 

47. Mould of Bavarian Cream ........ 357 

48. Royal Diplomatic Pudding 358 

49. Strawberry Charlotte . . ...... 360 

50. Cookies 386 



DEMONSTRATION LECTURES ON 



COOKERY, 



By MRS. LINCOLN. 



Schools or Societies in other cities, wishing one Demonstration or a 
course of Lectures, can secure Mrs. Lincoln's services by applying to 
her personally or by letter. 

For terms, address, 

Mrs. D. A. LINCOLN, 

71 Westland Avenue, 

Boston, Mass. 



THE 




EERLESS COOK BOOK. 



VALUABLE RECEIPTS FOR COOKING-, 

. . COMPACT AND PRACTICAL . . 

By MRS. D. A. LINCOLN, 

Author of " The Boston Cook Book," "The Boston School Kitchen 
Text Book" *' Carving and Serving" etc. 

l6mo, PAPER COVERS, IB CENTS. 

-400 CHOICE; RECEIPTS. 



The name of Mrs. D. A. Lincoln on a book of household advice 
is sure to stamp it with success. Thousands of women all over the 
land owe her a debt of gratitude for her " Boston Cook Book ;" and 
now thousands more, whose lack of means have prevented them from 
owning that unequalled volume, may rejoice in the possession of the 
Peerless Cook Book* This little collection contains over four hun- 
dred valuable recipes. A few of these are taken from her " Boston 
Cook Book;" but most of them are new, and all are of the most 
useful and practical description, bearing the mark of the positive 
genius which Mrs. Lincoln possesses for culinary composition. — The 
Beacon. 

Mrs. D. A. Lincoln's " Boston Cook Book " has been widely recog- 
nized as one of the very beSt manuals of its class, and her new venture 
in the same field, the Peerless Cook Book, which is issued in paper at 
a low price, will find a host of friends because of its eminently prac- 
tical character. — Christian Union. 



Sold by all Booksellers. Mailed, post-paid, on receipt of price 
by the Publishers, 

ROBERTS BROTHERS, Boston. 



THE BOSTON COOK BOOK. 



-«o«- 



COOKERY 

Cookery is the art of preparing food for the nourish** 
ment of the human body. When given its proper impor- 
tance in the consideration of health and comfort, it must 
be based upon scientific principles of hygiene and what 
the French call the minor moralities of the household. 
All civilized nations cook their food, to improve its taste 
and digestibility. The degree of civilization is often 
measured by the cuisine. 

Cooking (from the Latin coquo, to boil, bake, heat, dry, 
scorch, or ripen) is usually done by the direct application 
of heat. Fruits and some vegetables which are eaten in a 
natural state have really been cooked or ripened by the 
heat of the sun. Milk and eggs, which are types of per- 
fect food, would be useless as food unless they came from 
the warm living animal. Fish, flesh, and fruits which 
have been dried in the sun or smoked, and are often eaten 
without any further preparation, have undergone a certain 
process of natural cooking. 

Heed, seems to create new flavors, and to change the 
odor, taste, and digestibility of nearly aft articles of food. 
It swells and bursts the starch cells in flour, rice, and 
potatoes ; hardens the albumen in eggs, fish, and meat ; 
softens the fibrous substances in tough meats, hard vege- 
tables and fruits. It develops new flavors in tea, coffee, 
roasted meat, crusts of bread, baked beans, etc. 

1 



1 



The Boston Cook Book. 



Cold is also an important matter to be regarded in the 
preparation of food. Sweet dishes and certain flavors, 
like honey, ices, and custards ; the water, wine, or milk we 
drink ; our butter, fruits, and salads, — are all more pala- 
table when cold. 

Water, or some other liquid, in connection with heat is 
necessary in many forms of cookery. Grains, peas, beans, 
dried fruits which have parted with nearly all their moisture 
in the ripening or drjing process necessary for their preser- 
vation, need a large portion of water in cooking, to soften 
and swell the cellulose, gluten, and starch before they can 
be masticated and digested. In some vegetables and fruits 
water draws out certain undesirable flavors ; it softens 
and dissolves the gelatinous portions of meat, and makes 
palatable and nourishing many substances which would be 
rendered unwholesome by a dry heat. 

Air, or the free action of oxygen, upon our food while 
cooking develops certain flavors not otherwise to be ob- 
tained. Meat roasted or broiled has a much finer flavor 
than when boiled, baked, or fried. Toasted bread, thin 
corn cake baked before the fire, roasted apples, and many 
articles cooked in the open air, show the benefit of this 
free combined action of heat and air. 

Drying in the sun was one of the earliest modes of 
cookery. Then came roasting before an open fire, or 
broiling over the coals, and baking in the hot ashes. 
This last was the primitive oven. As the art of making 
cooking-utensils developed, stewing, boiling, and frying 
were adopted. Then, to economize heat, portable ovens 
were invented ; these were originally a covered dish set 
over or near the fire, having sometimes a double cover 
filled with coals. Afterwards, stoves which kept the fire 
and heat in a limited space were introduced ; and im- 
provements have been made in them so extensively that 
we now have them with conveniences for doing every form 
of cooking with wood, coal, oil, or gas. 

Some one gives this distinction between man and other 
animals : " Man is an animal that builds a fire and uses it 



w 



The Boston Cook Booh 



to cook his food." It is quite important then, as a step- 
ping-stone to cooking, to learn the properties and manage- 
ment of a fire. 

Fire. 

Fire is heat and light produced by the combustion of 
'nflammable substances. Combustion is a chemical opera- 
ion carried on in the air, or the chemical union of the 
oxygen of the air with some combustible body, like hj T - 
drogen gas or the solid carbon, and is attended with the 
evolution of heat and light The heat and the light come 
from the sun. With every particle of vegetable matter 
that is formed by the combined action of the sun and the 
carbonic acid gas in the air, a portion of the sun's heat 
and light is absorbed and held fast in it. And whenever 
this vegetable matter is decomposed, — as in burning wood, 
coal, or oil, which are only definite forms of vegetable mat- 
ter, — this heat and light are given out. The amount of 
each depends upon the mode of burning. 

Air is composed mainly of two elementary gases, oxj'gen 
and nitrogen (one part oxygen and four parts nitrogen), 
with a small amount of watery vapor and carbonic acid gas. 

Pure oxygen is a gas vhich has a wonderful attraction 
for, and power of combination with, every other element. 
If it were everywhere present in a perfectly pure state, it 
, would consume or burn up everything; but it is diluted 
or mixed (not combined) with nitrogen, another gas which 
is incombustible, and which lessens the combustibility of. 
everything with which it comes in contact. Owing to this 
dilution, the oxygen will not unite with the carbon and 
hydrogen with which it is everj-where surrounded, and 
produce rapid combustion, except at a high temperature. 
The temperature at which this union takes place is called 
the burning-point, and this varies in different substances. 
Thus combustion is within the power and control of man ; 
and some extra means are usually employed to increase 
the temperature to the burning-point, — friction, or per- 
cussion, or the use of some more highly inflammable 



The Boston Cook Book. 



substances, like sulphur and phosphorus. This produces 
heat sufficient to complete the chemical union, or, in com- 
mon phrase, " kindles the fire." 

The heat generated for all household purposes is produced 
by the chemical action of the oxygen of the air upon the hy- 
drogen and carbon which are found in the various kinds ot 
wood and coal. The oxygen first combines with the car- 
bon and decomposes it, producing carbonic acid gas, which 
escapes into the air, from which it is absorbed by plants, or 
by human lungs when there is no proper ventilation. The 
oxygen also combines with the hydrogen gas in the fuel, 
and this produces the flame ; the larger the amount of 
hydrogen in the fuel, the greater the amount of flame. 
Some of the products of combustion are not entirely con- 
sumed, and pass off as smoke ; some are incombustible, and 
remain as ashes. The intensity of a fire and the amount 
of heat which it produces are always in proportion to the 
amount of oxygen with which it is supplied. There should 
be just air enough for perfect combustion. An excess of 
air projected upon a fire convej's away the heat, cools the 
fuel, and checks the combustion. The supply of air should 
be controlled hy confining it in a limited space. 

Fires are usually kindled at the bottom of a flue or chim* 
ney. The heated air, being lighter, rises ; the colder, den- 
ser air rushes in to take its place, becomes heated, and 
ascends. Thus a continuous current is established, and a 
constant supply of fresh air secured. The chimney serves 
to carry off the smoke and poisonous products of combus* 
tion ; the heavier, incombustible products settle in'the form 
of ashes. The force of this current of air drawing through 
the chimney (a matter of great importance) is called the 
draught. It varies with the temperature and amount of 
air in the room, and the length and width of the chimney. 



Fuel. 

The materials generally used as fuel are wood, charcoal, 
coal, kerosene oil, and gas. 



The Boston Cook Book. 5 

&?/£ woods, such as pine or birch, kindle quicklj r , produce 
intense heat, and are best for a quick, blazing fire. 

Bard woods, like oak, ash, and hickory, burn more slowly, 
but produce harder coals, which retain the heat longer, and 
are better where long-continued heat is required. 

Charcoal, which is coal made by charring or burning 
wood with only a limited supply of air, burns easily and 
produces greater heat in proportion to its weight than any 
other fuel. It should never be burned in a close room. 

Anthracite coal is a kind of mineral charcoal derived from 
ancient vegetation buried in the earth, and so thoroughly 
pressed that nothing is left but pure carbon, a little sul- 
phur, and the incombustible ash. It kindles slowly, yields 
an intense, steady heat, and burns for a longer time with- 
out replenishing than the hardest wood. 

Coke, often used in cities, is the residue of coal from 
which illuminating gas has been manufactured. The beat 
is intense, but transient. . 

Stoves for burning kerosene oil and gas have recently 
been introduced, and are now so nearty perfect that the 
care of a fire for cooking purposes is trifling. Gas can 
only be used in certain localities. 

The cheapest fuel is the best kerosene oil. There need 
be no waste, no superfluous heat, no vitiated air, if the fire 
be extinguished immediately after the work is done, and if 
the stove be kept perfectly clean, so as to secure a free 
burning and perfect combustion. With two good stoves 
having all the latest and best improvements, a large amount 
of work can be easily and satisfactorily accomplished. 

The Making and Care of a Coal Fire. 

If you intend to buy a new stove or range, get one sim- 
ple in construction, that j'ou may quickly learn all its parts 
and their uses ; plain in finish, that you may easily keep it 
clean ; and perfectly fitted part to part, with doors and 
dampers shutting absolutely close, so that you may con- 
trol the fire and heat This latter point is of essential 



The Boston Cook Book. 



importance in regulating the oven and in preventing a 
waste of fuel. 

Become thoroughly acquainted with whatever stove you 
may have. If necessary, tjafce it apart; learn how to 
clean it in the inside, to regulate the dampers for all the 
variations of wind, temperature, and fuel ; and then learn 
how to make and keep a fire. 

All stoves have a fire-box, with more or less space under- 
neath for ashes ; a slide damper under the fire, letting in 
the air ; an outlet for the smoke ; and a damper which reg- 
ulates the supply of hot air, sending it around and under- 
neath the oven, or letting it escape into the chimnej\ 
Remove the covers and brush the soot from the top of the 
oven into the fire-box ; then clean out the grate ; and if 
the stove have conveniences for so doing, sift the ashes in 
the stove and save all the old coal and cinders. Put in 
shavings or loose rolls of paper, then fine pine kindlings, 
arranged crosswise, and a layer of hard wood, leaving 
plenty of air space between the pieces. Be sure the wood 
comes out to each end of the fire-box. Put on the covers ; 
and if the stove need cleaning, moisten some pulverized 
stove polish with water, and rub the stove with a paint 
brush dipped in the polish. When all blackened, rub with 
a dry polishing-brush until nearly dry. Open the direct 
draught and oven damper, and light the paper, as a slight 
heat facilitates the process of polishing. When the wood 
is thoroughly kindled, fill the fire-box with coal even with 
the top of the oven. Brush up the hearth and floor, emptj r 
the teakettle, and fill it with fresh water. Watch the fire, 
and push the coal down as the wood burns away, and 
add enough more coal to keep it even with the top of the 
fire bricks. When the blue flame becomes white, close the 
oven damper ; and when the coal is burning freely, but not 
red, shut the direct draught. It seems impossible for some 
persons to understand that a coal fire is at its height as 
soon as well kindled, and needs only air enough to keep it 
burning. When it becomes bright red all through, it has 
parted with most of its heat, and begins to die out. Tons 



The Boston Cook Book. 



of coal are wasted in man}' kitchens, and ranges are need- 
lessly burned out, by filling the fire-box till the coal touches 
the covers, and leaving the draughts open till the coal is 
red. 

Nearly all stoves and portable ranges have the oven at 
one side of and a little below the fire. In brick-set ranges 
the ovens are sometimes over the fire. A stove has a door 
on each side of the oven, with the fire-box in front. A 
portable range has only one oven-door, and the fire-box at 
the end. In ranges where the oven is over the fire, the 
articles to be baked are placed on a grate near the middle, 
as the bottom of the oven is usually very hot. In stoves 
or portable ranges anything which has to rise in the oven, 
like bread, pastry, cake, etc., is placed on the bottom of 
the oven, and, if the heat be too great, a small rack or 
grate may be placed under it. Large pieces of meat are 
placed on a rack in a pan ; while small cuts of meat, birds, 
etc., which are to be baked quickly, and any dishes which 
are to be merely browned, like scalloped dishes, must be 
placed on the grate near the top. Cultivate the habit of 
opening and shutting the oven-door quickly but gently. 
Learn the hottest and coolest places in the oven. Look at 
things as they are baking, and turn and watch till you are 
sure they can be left alone. If anything bake unevenly or 
too fast, put a screen between it and the heat, — a pan on 
the grate above or underneath, or a frame of stiff paper 
made larger than the pan, that it may not touch the dough. 
When the regulating dampers are closed and the oven is 
still too hot, lift a cover on the top partty off, although in 
a stove in which the parts are perfectly adjusted this will 
never be necessary. When the oven is not hot enough, 
open the direct draught, and rake out the ashes from the 
grate. Keep the grate cleaned out and the fire burning 
freely, when a very hot oven is needed. At other times 
keep the draughts shut and do not waste the coal. 

To keep a brisk fire for several hours or all day, it is 
better to add a sprinkling of coal often, rather than to let 
it burn nearly out, and then, by adding a larger quantity, 



H 



8 The Boston Cook Book. 

check the fire and retard the work. In using the top of 
the stove remember the hottest place is over the fire and 
toward the middle, not on the front of the stove. When 
you have once watched the flame in its passage over the 
top, down the back, and under the oven, then across, out 
and up on the opposite side and out into the chimney, you 
will understand where the greatest heat must be. 

Boiling. 

The term " boiling" is often used erroneously in cook- 
ery. The expressions " the teakettle boils," " the rice is 
boiling," " boiled beef," etc., are all good illustrations of 
the rhetorical figure metonymy, but they are practically 
incorrect. In all cases it is only the water or liquid which 
boils. No solid can boil until first changed to a liquid. 
Solids become liquid at the melting-point. Liquids take 
the form of steam or vapor at the boiling-point. Boiling 
is the conversion of a liquid into steam by the application 
of heat sufficient to cause ebullition, or agitation of its sur- 
face. Boiling, therefore, as applied to the cooking of 
solids, is heating or cooking in a boiling liquid. It is one 
of the most generally used, and abused, forms of cooking. 
Boiling water, which is really cooked water, is the liquid 
usually employed. Water, as it is heated from below, ex- 
pands into vapor. The air of the water and the steam 
shoot up in the form of bubbles ; as they come in contact 
with the cold water near the surface, the bubbles collapse, 
the steam is condensed and descends with the cold water, 
making a double set of currents, which causes quite a com- 
motion among the particles. As the whole body of water 
becomes hotter, these bubbles of steam rise higher and 
higher before collapsing, and occasion the sound which 
we call the "singing of the kettle." When the water is 
sufficiently heated, they rise and break at the surface, 
causing more or less agitation, according to the rapidity 
with which they are formed. Water is scalding hot at 
150°, or when the hand cannot be borne in it. Water 



The Boston Cook Booh 



simmers when the bubbles all collapse beneath the surface, 
and the steam is condensed to water again, or at 185°. 
Water boils when the bubbles rise to the surface, and the 
steam is thrown off, as at 212°. When this boiling-point 
is reached, the heat escapes with the steam ; and all the fire 
in the world cannot make the water anj r hotter, so long as 
the steam escapes. If the fire be very fierce, so that these 
bubbles are formed and expelled rapidly, and the water 
boils over, the water is no hotter ; it only evaporates or 
boils away faster, and can only be made hotter by confin- 
ing the steam, which in ordinary kettles is impossible, 
owing to the enormous expansive force of the steam. 
With a few exceptions it is a waste of fuel, time, and ma- 
terial to keep the water boiling at such a galloping rate . 
that the cover has to be lifted to prevent boiling over. 

A kettle should never be quite full, as the water ex- 
pands in heating, and, in boiling over, makes needless 
work and injures the stove. Water will boil more quickly 
in a kettle with a rough surface than in one with a smooth 
surface, as the water adheres to a smooth surface with 
greater force, and this force or attraction must be over- 
come before boiling takes place. Small, clean gravel is 
sometimes kept in a smooth kettle to«facilitate the boiling. 

Water boils at a higher temperature when there is sugar, 
or salt, or anything in it to increase its density. It takes 
longer for it to boil ; but it is hotter, when that point is 
reached. No one who has been burned by boiling syrup 
ever doubted this fact. Fresh water boils at 212° ; salt 
water, at 224°. If we put salt with the water in the lower 
part of a double boiler, a greater degree of heat is obtained 
by which to cook the articles in the top. 

Water boils at a lower temperature, that is, more quickly, 
when the pressure of the air upon the water is diminished. 
Before a rain the pressure of the air is lessened, because 
the air when filled with vapor is lighter. Observing house- 
keepers have often noticed how quickly things burn at such 
a time, and foretell a rain by the rapidity with which water 
evaporates. 



io The Boston Cook Book. 

The pressure of the air is less the higher we ascend 
above the level of the sea, since we leave much of the air 
below us. Cooking in boiling water requires a much 
longer time in mountainous regions ; for the water boils so 
quickly that it holds less heat than in lower altitudes, 
where it is subject to greater pressure. Water, in boiling, 
loses the air or gases which give it a fresh taste and spark- 
ling appearance. It becomes flat and tasteless. If there 
be any impurity in water, boiling or cooking will destroy 
it. Then, by cooling, and exposing to pure air again, it 
becomes aerated and palatable. But water for cooking, 
unless there are impurities to be removed, should be used 
when freshly boiled. This is espeeialty important in mak- 
ing tea and coffee. 

Soft water should be used in boiling where the object is 
to soften the texture, and extract the soluble parts, as in 
soups, broths, tea, and coffee. Hard water, or soft water . 
salted, is better where we wish to preserve the articles 
whole, and retain the soluble and flavoring principles, as in 
most green vegetables. Beans or dried peas, which contain 
casein or vegetable albumen in large proportion, should be 
cooked in soft water, as the lime in hard water hardens the 
casein, and prevents tke vegetables from becoming soft. 

In cooking meat, fish, and vegetables in water, we should 
remember these two facts : — 

Gold water draws out the albuminous juices, softens the 
fibres and gelatinous portions of meat, and holds them in 
solution. It draws out starch, but cfoes not unite with it. 

Boiling water hardens and toughens albumen and fibrine, 
bursts the starch grains, and is absorbed by the swelling 
starch. 

Meat is cooked in water for three distinct purposes : — 

First. To keep the nutriment within the meat, as in 
what is usually called boiled meat. To do this, we leave the 
meat whole, that only a little surface may be exposed. 
Plunge it into boiling salted water, and keep it there for 
five or ten minutes ; this hardens the albumen over the 
entire surface, and makes a coating through which the juices 



The Boston Cook Booh 1 1 

cannot escape. Then move the kettle where the water 
will simmer slowly. See that the cover fits tightly, to keep 
in the steam. The water should be salted to raise the 
boiling-point, and increase the density of the water, and 
thus prevent the escape of the juices. A small amount of 
the albumen in the outer surface will be dissolved and rise 
as scum. This should be removed, or it will settle on the 
meat and render it uninviting in appearance. If the meat 
be put in the kettle with the bones uppermost, then the scum 
will not settle on the meat. In turning the meat do not 
pierce into it to let the juices escape. It will take a longer 
time to cook in this way, but the fibrine will be softened, 
and the meat made more tender and of better flavor, than 
when kept boiling furiously. 

Second, Meats are cooked in water to have the nutri- 
ment wholly in the liquid, as in soups and meat teas. Cut 
the meat in small pieces ; soak in cold water, the longer 
the better ; heat gradually, and keep hot, but not boiling, 
until all the goodness is extracted. 

Third, Meats are cooked in water to have the nutri- 
ment partly in the liquid and partly in the meat, as in stews^ 
fricassees, etc. Put the meat in cold water, let the water 
boil quickl}', then skim, and keep at the simmering-point. 
The cold water will draw out enough of the juices to enrich 
the liquid ; then, as it reaches the boiling-point, the meat 
hardens, and retains the remainder. 

Fish is usually cooked in boiling water for the purpose 
of keeping the juices in the fish. As the flesh of fish 
breaks easily, the water should never be allowed to boil 
rapidly. Salmon, mackerel, or any very oily fish, should 
be put into cold water, and brought almost to the boiling- 
point quickly, as they have a very strong, rich flavor. A 
little of this flavor can be lost without injury to the fish. 

Vegetables, which are mostly starch and water, should 
be put into boiling water and boiled rapidly, that the small 
portions of albumen which they contain may be hardened 
on the surface ; then, if the starch grains are burst quickly 
they will absorb the albuminous juices within. 



12 The Boston Cook Booh 

Milk boils at 196°. Being thicker than water, less of 
the steam escapes, and the whole liquid become^ hot sooner 
than water. The bubbles rise rapidly, and, owing to their 
tenacity, do not burst at the surface, but climb over one 
another till they run over the edge of the pan. 

Milk, grains, custards, and any substances which, from 
their glutinous nature, would be liable to adhere to the 
kettle, are much more easily and safely cooked in a double 
boiler, or in a pail within a kettle of water. This is one 
form of steaming, or cooking over boiling water. In steam- 
ing, the water should not stop boiling until the articles are 
cooked. This is a convenient form of cooking many arti- 
cles which it is troublesome to cook with a dry heat, and 
yet do not need the solvent powers of water. Watery 
vegetables are rendered drier by steaming; and tough 
pieces of meat which cannot be roasted, are first made 
tender bj* steaming, and then browned in the oven. Some- 
times meat is steamed in its own juices alone ; this is 
called smothering, or pot-roasting. 

Stewing is another form of boiling or cooking in a small 
qnantit}' of water, at a moderate heat, and for a long time. 
The word means a slow, moist, gentle heat. It is an eco- 
nomical mode of cooking, except where a fire has to be 
kept for this purpose alone. The long-continued action of 
a gentle heat softens the fibres ; and the coarsest and 
cheapest kinds of meat, cooked in this waj r , with vegeta- 
bles, may be made tender and nutritious. By judicious use 
of seasoning material, remnants can be made into savory 
and nourishing dishes. Whether we call it simply a stew, 
or ragout, haricot, or salmi, the principle is the same, — 
that o^ slow, steady simmering, rather than fierce boiling. 

Fricasseeing (meaning u to fry") is a form of stewing. 
The term is usually applied to chicken, veal, or some small 
game, which is cut into pieces, and fried either before or 
after stewing, and served with a rich white or brown 
sauce, and without vegetables. Any meat that is quite 
juicy and not very tough ma}' be first browned on the out- 
side to keep in the juices, and improve the flavor. Coarse, 



The Boston Cook Book. 13 

tough pieces should not be browned, but dipped in vinegar 
to soften the fibre; and pieces containing much gristle 
should be put into cold water. 

Braising is a form' of stewing done usually in a braising- 
pan or kettle which has coals in the cover. Any granite 
or iron pan with a close cover to keep in the steam will 
answer the purpose. When placed in the oven, where it 
is surrounded by a slow, uniform heat, it needs very little 
attention. It is one of the most economical and satisfac- 
tory ways of cooking large pieces of tough, lean meat, 
pigeons, liver, fowls, heart, etc. Stock, vegetables, and 
bacon maj r be used, if a rich liquor be required ; but water, 
herbs, and simple seasoning make it very palatable. 

Baking is hardening or cooking in a dry heat, as in a 
close oven. Nearly all flour mixtures — bread, pastay, and 
some forms of pudding — are more wholesome baked than 
when cooked in any other way. Many forms of baking 
are really stewing ; but the closely confined heat of the 
oven gives an entirely different flavor from that obtained 
by stewing over the fire. This is seen in the difference 
between stewed and baked apple-sauce, beans, etc. 

Meat and fish, if baked in the right way, lose less in 
weight than when boiled or roasted. To bake them prop- 
erly, the juices must be kept within the meat. An intense 
heat at first is necessary to harden the albumen ; then re- 
duce the heat, that the outside may not become too hard, 
and baste frequently to prevent drying. No water should 
be put in the pan at first, as it will then be impossible to 
have a greater heat than that of boiling water (212°) , while 
for baking meat 280°, or more, is required. Put one or 
two tablespoonfuls of beef drippings, or some of the fat 
from the meat, in the pan, to use in basting, as the fat can 
be made much hotter than water. If the joint be very 
large, or the meat need thorough cooking, like poultry, 
veal, or pork, water can be added to check the heat as 
soon as the outside is cooked sufficiently to keep in the 
juices. This will keep the meat moist. Small cuts, and 
meats to be eaten rare, are better baked without water. 



14 The Boston Cook Book. 

Many persons accustomed to meat roasted before the 
open fire object to the flavor of baked meat. If the oven 
be very hot at first, and opened every five minutes just 
long enough for the basting, which is an essential part of 
the cooking process, the smoky odor escapes. If there 
be no damper to check the heat underneath the oven, put 
the grate or another pan under the dripping-pan, as no 
heat is required under the meat. This will prevent the fat 
in the pan from burning and smoking the meat. Place 
the meat with the skin side down at first ; then, if the 
juices begin to flow, the skin keeps them in ; and, when 
turned, it brings the side which is to be up in serving 
next the hottest part of the oven, for the final browning. 
All baked meat or fish should be salted and floured all 
over. Salt draws out the juices ; but the flour unites with 
them, making a paste which soon hardens, and keeps them 
within. Baste often, and dredge with salt and flour after 
basting. If there be no shelf attached to the stove near 
the oven, keep a box or frame of wood just the height of 
the oven, near by, and pushed up close to it ; it will be 
found very convenient to pull the pan out upon it when 
basting or turning the meat. 

Frying. 

Frying is cooking in hot fat, — not boiling fat, as it is so 
often called, for fat can be made much hotter than the 
temperature required for cooking, which is 385° ; the tem- 
perature for boiling fat is from 565° to 600°. Frying, 
when properly done, is immersion in smoking-hot fat. The 
fat should be deep enough to entirely cover the articles to 
be cooked ; and as it may be used many times, it is not so 
extravagant as some suppose to use such a quantity. The 
prime secret of nice frying is to have the fat hot enough 
to harden instantly the albumen on the outer surface, and 
thus prevent the fat from soaking into the inside of what- 
ever is to be fried. As a much higher temperature is 
required than that for boiling or baking, the articles are 



The Boston Cook Book. 15 

very quickly cooked ; and they have a flavor quite unlike 
that given by any other form of cooking. 

All articles to be fried should be thoroughly dried and 
slightly wanned. If very moist, or very cold, or too many 
articles be fried at a time, the fat becomes chilled, and 
the grease soaks into them. Then, as the moisture heats 
and boils, it causes such a commotion that the fat and 
water boil over, and there is great danger from the fat 
taking fire and spreading to your clothing, to sa}* nothing 
of the trouble of cleaning the stove and floor. For this 
reason be careful not to let a drop of water, or of con- 
densed steam from another kettle, fall into the hot fat. 

Meat, fish, oysters, croquettes, etc., should be dried, 
and rolled in fine bread-crumbs, to absorb any moisture ; 
then rolled in beaten egg, and in fine crumbs again. The 
hot fat hardens the albumen of the egg instantly ; and that, 
with the crumbs, makes a fat-proof crust. 

Fish balls, fritters, and fried muffin mixtures contain 
egg and albumen sufficient to keep them from soaking fat, 
if the fat be only hot enough. A Scotch bowl, or deep 
iron or granite kettle, and a wire basket small enough to 
fit down into the kettle, are best to use in frying, 

The Test for Hot Fat. — When the fat begins to smoke 
put in a bit of bread ; if it brown quickly, or while you 
can count sixty as the clock ticks, it is hot enough for 
fried potatoes, doughnuts, etc. When hot enough to 
brown the bread while you count forty, it will" do for fish 
balls, croquettes, etc. 

When ready to fry, plunge the basket into the hot fat 
to grease it, and then place in it the croquettes, or what- 
ever you may be frying, so that they will not touch each 
other. Hold the handle of the basket with a long fork, 
and plunge it quickly into the fat, but do not drop the 
handle, because if the fat begin to boil up, you can then 
raise the basket quickly, and wait till the ebullition has 
subsided before plunging it in again ; and thus avoid 
the danger of burning from the overflowing fat. The fat 
cools rapidly, when many articles are fried at once, and 



\ 



1 6 The Boston Cook Booh 

should be reheated to the test point before frying any 
more. 

Time, — Any cooked mixture, such as fish balls and cro- 
quettes, or very small fish, oysters, scallops, etc., will be 
fried brown in one minute. Thicker fish, chops, and frit- 
ters require longer cooking ; and, after plunging them into 
the hot fat, the kettle should be set back from the fire to 
prevent them from besoming too brown before they are 
sufficiently cooked. While frying, be careful not to spill 
any fat on the stove. Keep a tin plate in your left hand, 
and hold it under the basket, or ladle, as you take things 
from the fat. 

Draining. — Thorough draining is another secret of nice 
frying, and you cannot find a much hotter place than right 
over the hot fat ; so hold your basket of fried food over the 
hot fat, and shake slightly, till all dripping has stopped. 
Then place the fried articles on soft or unglazed paper, to 
absorb the fat, and keep them hot till ready to serve. 
Never pile fried articles one on another. 

Fat for Frying. 

Lard, a mixture of half suet and half lard, drippings, or 
oil, may be used for frying. Suet and drippings are cheap- 
est, and are preferred by many. Suet used alone cools 
very quickly and leaves a tallowy taste. Drippings should 
be carefully clarified (see page 18) and freed from water, 
or the articles cooked will soak fat. Lard, with a small 
proportion of suet or drippings, is more generally satisfac- 
tory. There is often a very disagreeable odor to new lard, 
and more or less water in it, as is shown by the froth and 
ebullition as soon as it becomes hot. Before it is used for 
any purpose it should be clarified with slices of raw potato 
and heated until it becomes still. Olive oil is the purest fat 
for frying, but it is too expensive for general use. Cotton- 
seed oil has been recently introduced for cooking purposes, 
and is an excellent fat for frying, though many dislike its 
peculiar odor. It may be heated much hotter than larcl 9 



The Boston Cook Book. ij 

without burning, and, when properly used, imparts no 
flavor to the food. When the fat becomes too brown for 
potatoes or doughnuts, use it for croquettes, etc., and then 
use it for nothing except fish balls and fish. When it be- 
comes very brown, put it with the soap-grease. 

If you wish to fry several kinds at the same time, begin 
with potatoes, following with doughnuts or flour mixtures, 
and crumbed articles last ; otherwise the crumbs will fall 
off, and adhere to whatever is put in subsequently. After 
every frying, strain the fat through a fine wire strainer or 
fine strainer cloth into a tin pail, not pouring it, but dip- 
ping it from the kettle with a small long-handled dipper. 
Let it cool slightly before straining, as, if very hot, it will 
melt the strainer. Sprinkle coffee on the stove, while fry- 
ing, to disguise the odor. 

Sauteing. 

The ordinary way of frying in a shallow pan with only a 
little fat, first on one side and then on the other, which the 
French call sauteing, answers very well for some purposes, 
— omelets, fried cakes, and many things browned in butter ; 
but nearly everything that requires any more fat than just 
enough to keep it from sticking, is much better immersed 
in hot fat. Fish balls, chops, and 03'sters are more quickly 
cooked, and absorb less fat, when fried by immersion than 
when sauted. Some people are extremely unwilling to 
make the change, and persist in going on in the old way 
of cooking in a little, half-hot fat which spatters over 
stove and floor, soaks into the fish or meat, and is often 
served as the only gravy. Upon such, dyspepsia is a fell 
avenger. 

These directions for frying are given thus minutely not 

from any desire to recommend this method of cooking ; 

but, if people will fry their food, they should do it in the 

only correct waj r . With the exception of salt-fish balls 

and small, dry, white fish, there is nothing fried, even in 

2 



1 8 The Boston Cook Book. 

 »  ■■■■■iii ^ 

the right way, that would not be equally good, aud much 
more conducive to health, were it cooked otherwise. Sar- 
atoga potatoes, or chips as they are called, are really chips, 
for persons with weak digestion. Oysters, chops, fritters, 
and the materials in croquettes, muffins, and doughnuts 
may be cooked in many better ways. 

Frying answers very well for open-air cooking, on the 
seashore or in camp, where appetite and digestion are 
strengthened. But in most modern houses, where the 
odors from the kitchen penetrate the remotest nook and 
corner, there are many serious objections, apart from the 
indigestibility of the food thus prepared. The acrid odors 
given off during the heating of fat are very irritating to 
the mucous membrane of the nose and throat, and they are 
equally so to a sensitive stomach. Some persons who can 
usually digest fried food cannot do so when the stomach 
has been irritated by the odor in frying. If all those who 
are so fond of croquettes, fritters, etc., were obliged to 
inhale the smoking fat, these dishes would seldom appear 
on the table. 

To clarify Fat. 

Any uncooked fat, such as suet, the fat from chickens, 
and all superfluous beef fat, should be saved and clarified, 
or made pure and clear. Cut the fat into small pieces, 
cover with cold water, and cook over a slow fire until the 
fat has melted, and the water nearly all evaporated. Then 
strain and press all the fat from the scraps. When cool, 
remove the cake of hard fat, or, if soft, draw it to one side 
and let the water underneath run off. You may put with 
the new fat any fat from soup stock, corned beef, drippings 
from roast beef, veal, fresh pork, or chicken ; in fact, any- 
thing except the fat from mutton, turkey, and smoked 
meat. If there be any sediment adhering to the fat, add 
a little very cold water, and, after stirring well, pour the 
water off, or skim the fat from the water. Place the fat 
in a pan over the fire, and, when melted, add one small 
raw potato, cut into thin slices. Let it stand on the top 



The Boston Cook Booh 19 

of the stove or in the oven till the fat has stopped bub* 
bling, is still, and the scraps are brown and crisp and 
rise to the top. Strain through a fine strainer, and keep 
in a cool place. Fat thus cleared will keep sweet for 
weeks, if melted occasionally, which should always be 
done when any new fat is added. 

Boiling the fat causes the water in it to evaporate, and 
the organic matters or impurities to be decomposed, and 
deposited as sediment ; the potato, owing to it3 porosity 
and power of absorption (being mostly starch and carbon), 
absorbs any odors or gases, unites with the sediment, and 
thus cleanses the fat, very much as charcoal purifies water. 
Clarified fat (or dripping, as it is usually termed) an- 
swers for many purposes in cooking, — frying, saut&ng, 
basting roast meat, greasing pans ; and as shortening for 
bread, plain pastiy, and gingerbread. 

Egg and Bread Crumbing. 

Hints on saving bread crusts and stale pieces, for egg 
and bread crumbing, are given on page 75. The crumbs 
should be sifted through a fine sieve. For fish or meat 
mix a little salt, pepper, and chopped parsley with them. 
Beat the eggs slightly with a fork in a shallow dish. Add 
one tablespoonful of water or two tablespoonfuls of milk 
for each egg. Add a little sugar if they are to be used for 
sweet dishes, and salt and pepper for all others. Sprinkle 
the crumbs on a board, and roll the chop, fish, or cro- 
quettes first in the crumbs ; shake off all that do not adhere. 
Cover all the articles with the crumbs and let them stand 
till dry, then dip into the beaten egg, and be careful to 
have every part covered. Drain from the egg, and roll 
again in the crumbs. Croquettes or any soft mixture 
should be held on a broad knife while being placed in the 
egg. Then dip the egg over them, and slip the knife again 
lengthwise under the croquette, drain, and put it carefully 
into the crumbs. Scallops and very small oysters can be 
more easily crumbed by placing them with the crumbs in a 



20 The Boston Cook Booh 

sheet of paper, and tossing or turning till all are crumbed . 
Remember the order : crumbs first, then egg, then crumbs 
again. 

Roasting. 

Roasting (meaning " to heat violently" ) is cooking be- 
fore an open fire ; it implies the action of a much greater 
degree of heat than that employed in any of the previously 
specified methods of cooking. The heat of an open fire is 
about 1,000°. 

In the days of open fireplaces this was the general way 
of cooking large pieces of meat; but now it is adopted 
only in large establishments, or by those who can afford 
the additional expense of a tin kitchen, and a range con- 
structed especially for roasting. Baking, or roasting in a 
very hot oven, being a cheaper and more convenient way, 
is more generally used. Ovens in stoves and ranges are 
now well ventilated ; and meat when properly cooked in a 
very hot oven, and basted often, is nearly equal in flavor 
to that roasted before an open fire. The fire for roasting 
should be clear and bright, and of sufficient body to last, 
with only a slight sprinkling of coal, through the time for 
roasting. 

The meat is placed on a spit, and hung in the jack in a 
tin kitchen, and made to revolve slowly before the fire by 
winding a spring in the jack, or by turning the spit at 
regular intervals. The meat should be rubbed with salt 
and flour, and placed on the spit, very near the fire at 
first, to harden the albumen ; then removed a little dis- 
tance to prevent the meat from burning, before the inside 
is cooked. Place two or three spoonfuls of dripping in 
the pan to use in basting the meat ; baste often, and 
dredge two or three times with flour. When the joint is 
very large, place a buttered paper over it. 

As the juices of meat are composed largely of water, 
the water will be evaporated as soon as it reaches the 
boiling-point, or 212°. When meat is placed in a moder- 
ate oven, the heat is not sufficient to harden the albumen 



The Boston Cook Book. 21 

on the outer surface ; the watery juices evaporate, the 
steam escapes, and the meat becomes dry and ^tasteless. 
But when meat is exposed to the intense heat of an open 
fire, or a very hot oven, the albumen hardens ; and if 
basted frequently with hot fat, the meat is completely en- 
veloped in a varnish of hot melted fat, which assists in 
communicating the heat to the inside, and checks the 
evaporation of the juices ; this prevents the escape of the 
steam, so that the inside of properly roasted meat is 
really cooked in the steam of its own juices. The evapo 
ration of juices is proportionate to the amount of surface 
exposed. A small joint has a larger surface in proportion 
to its weight than a large joint weighing double or treble 
the amount ; therefore the smaller the joint to be roasted, 
the higher the temperature to which its surface should be ex- 
posed, that the evaporation may be more quickly arrested. 
For very thin pieces of meat, which have a still larger 
surface in proportion to the weight, such as steaks and 
chops, a greater heat is required. This is accomplished 
by broiling, which should be done near the burning- 
point, the highest degree of heat employed in any form of 
cooking. 

Broiling. 

Broiling (meaning " to burn" ) is cooking directly over 
the hot coals. - The degree of heat is so intense that the 
articles to be cooked would be very quickly burned, were 
they allowed to remain for any length of time over the fire. 
The secret of nice broiling is frequent turning. The fire 
should be bright red, and nearty to the top of the fire-box, 
so that the broiler may almost touch the fire. There 
should be no flame, as the flame from coal is due to the 
combustion of tany vapors, and will cause a deposit of 
coal tar on the meat, giving it a smoky, nauseating flavor. 
When the fat from the chop or steak drips on the coals 
and blazes', it deposits a film of mutton or beef fat all 
over the meat, which has a very different flavor from that 
of the coal flame. When the steak has much fat, remove 



22 The Boston Cook Book. 

part of it. A little fat will improve the flavor, baste 
the meat, and keep it from becoming too dry. The 
oven damper should always be opened while broiling, 
that the smoke of the dripping fat may be carried into the 
chimney. 

There is nothing better for broiling than a double wire 
broiler. It is well to have several sizes. Grease it well 
with a bit of the fat from the meat, or with salt-pork rind. 
Place the thickest part of whatever is to be broiled next 
the middle of the broiler. Do not salt the meat, as salt 
draws out the juice. Have the platter heating, and every- 
thing else ready, that you may not leave the broiling for 
an instant. Hold the broiler firmly, with a coarse towel 
wrapped around your hand to protect it from the heat. 
Place it as near the fire as possible, to sear the outside 
instantly ; count ten, then sear the other side. The heat 
hardens the outside, and starts the flow of the juices. 
They cannot escape through the hardened outer surface ; 
but if the meat were cooked wholly on one side before 
turning, they would soon come to the top, and then, in 
turning the meat, the juices would drip into the fire. But 
if the meat be turned be/ore the juices reach the top, the 
other surface is hardened, and they cannot escape, but flow 
to the centre, and are there retained. As the juices are 
converted into steam by the heat, they swell and give the 
meat a puffy appearance. If the broiling be carried on 
too long, these juices gradually ooze between the fibres 
to the surface, and are evaporated ; and the meat becomes 
dry, leathery, and indigestible. 

Meat should be broiled only long enough to loosen all 
the fibres, and start the flow of the juices. The meat will 
spring up instantly when pressed with the knife ; and when 
it ceases to do this, the juices have begun to evaporate, 
and the meat shrinks. A little experience will enable one 
to decide just when to remove the meat Do not cut into 
it, as this lets out the juices. It should be pink and juicy, 
not raw and purple, nor brown and dry. Turn over as 
often as you can count ten, and cook four minutes, if 



The Boston Cook Booh 23 

one inch thick ; six, if one inch and a half thick. The 
smaller and thinner the article, the hotter should be the 
fire ; the larger the article, the more temperate the fire, or 
the greater the distance from the fire. 

Fish should be floured to keep the skin from sticking. 
A large baking-pan to keep in the heat should be held 
over an3"thing which is verj T thick and requires to be cooked 
a long time. 

Chickens, which need to be thoroughly broiled but not 
burned or dried, require about twenty minutes. A safe 
way is to wrap them in buttered glazed paper ; cook the 
inner side first, and after the first searing keep them at a 
little distance from the fire. 

Chops, bacon, birds, and dry fish are also improved by 
broiling in the buttered paper. Take a large sheet of 
white letter paper, or two small sheets. Rub them well 
with softened butter. This keeps out the air. Season the 
chop or fish with salt and pepper, place it near the centre 
of the paper, and fold the edges of the paper over several 
times and pinch them together close to the meat. The 
paper will char a long time before blazing, if care be taken 
not to break through the paper and thus let in the air and 
let out all the fat. The meat will be basted with its own 
fat and juices. A longer time will be required for the 
broiling ; but when the paper is well browned, the chop will 
be done. It will be found juicy and delicious, — free 
from any smoky flavor. 

Pan-broiling is broiling in a hissing hot spider or frying- 
pan. Heat the pan to a blue heat. Rub it with a bit of 
the beef fat, just enough to keep the meat from sticking, 
but do not leave any fat in the pan. Sear the meat quickly 
on one side, then turn without cutting into the meat, and 
brown the other side before any juice escapes into the 
pan. Cook about four minutes, turning twice, and serve 
very hot with salt and butter. If the pan be hot enough 
and no fat used, this is not frying, it is broiling on hot 
iron; and the flavor is almost equal to broiling over the 
coals. 



24 



The Boston Cook Book. 



Baking Pread, Cake, and Puddings. 



Time Tables for Cooking. 

Baking Meats. 



Loaf bread . 
Rolls, biscuit 
Graham gems 
Gingerbread . 
Sponge cake . 
Plain " 
Fruit " 
Cookies . . 
Bread pudding 
Rice and Tapioca 
Indian pudding 
Plum 
Custards 
Steamed brown-bread 
Steamed puddings . 
Pie-crust .... 
Potatoes .... 
Baked beans . . 
Braised meat . . 
Scalloped dishes . 



u 



u 

!( 
U 
it 
(f 



40 to 60 m. 
10 to 20 
30 
20 to 30 
45 to 60 
30 to 40 
2 to 3hrs. 
10 to 15 m. 

lhr. 

1 " 

2 to 3 " 
2to 3 u 

15 to 20 m. 

3hrs. 

lto 3 w 

about 30 m. 

30 to 45 " 

6 to 8hrs. 

3 to 4 " 
15 to 20 m. 



12 
20 



Beef, sirloin, rare, per lb. 8 
Beef, sirloin, well done, 

per lb 

Beef, rolled rib or rump, 

per lb. . . • . . 
Beef, long or short fillet 
Mutton, rare, per lb. 
Mutton, well done, 

per lb 

Lamb, well done, per lb. 
Veal " " " 
Pork " " " 
Turkey, 10 lbs. wt. . 
Chickens, 3 to 4 lbs. wt. 
Goose, 8 lbs. . 
Tame duck . 
Game " 
Grouse . • • 
Pigeons • • 
Small birds . 
Venison, per lb. 
Fish, 6 to 8 lbs. 

thin fish 
Fish, 4 to 6 lbs. 

halibut . . 
Fish, small . 



to 10 ru. 



12 to 15 



i* 



40 
30 



15 



long, 

. • 
thick 



20 



to 15 " 

to 30 " 

10 " 

15 " 
15 " 
20 " 
30 " 
3hr& 

tol£ " 
2 " 

to 60 m. 

to 40 " 
30 " 
30 " 

to 20 " 
15 " 

lhr. 

1 " 
to 30 m. 



Boiling, 

Eggs, coffee, clams, oysters 

Rice, green corn, peas, tomatopa, 'isparagus, hard-boiled eggs 
Potatoes, macaroni, squash, ceiery, spinach, sweetbreads . . 
Young beets, carrots, turnips, onions, parsnips, cauliflower . 
Young cabbage, string beanfe, shell beans, oyster plant . . . 
Winter vegetables, oatmeal, hominy and wheat, chickens and 

lamb 

Fowls, turkey, veal 

Corned beef, smoked tongue, beef a la mode 

Ham 

Halibut and salmon in cubical form, per lb • 

Blue-fish, bass, etc., per lb 

Cod, haddock, aud small fish, per lb • • 



3 to 5 m. 
15 to 20 " 
20 to 30 " 
30 to 45 " 
45 to 60 " 



lto 

2 to 

3 to 

4 to 



Frying: 

Smelts, small fish, croquettes, fish balls . 

Muffins, fritters, doughnuts 

Slices of fish, breaded chops 



3 to 

4 to 



2hrs 

3 4 * 

4 " 

5 4< 
15 m. 
10 " 

6 " 



lm 

5 " 

6 «• 



The Boston Cook Book. 25 



Broiling. 

Steak, one inch thick • • . • • 4 m. 

Steak, one and a half inch thick 6 " 

Small, thin fish 5 to 8 " 

Thick fish 12 to 15 " 

Chops, broiled in paper 8 to 10 " 

Chickens 20 " 



Larding. 

Many kinds of meat which are very lean and dry are 
improved by the addition of some kind of fat. The tender- 
loin or fillet of beef, the thick part of the leg of veal, grouse, 
and liver, are often prepared in this way. 

Larding is drawing small strips of fat salt pork or bacon 
through the surface of the meat ; daubing is forcing strips 
of pork through the entire thickness of the meat. Take a 
piece of fat salt pork two inches wide and four inches 
long. Shave off the rind the long way of the pork ; then 
cut two or three slices about a quarter of an inch thick, 
the same way as the rind ; cut only to the membrane which 
lies about an inch below the rind, as this is the firmest 
part of the pork ; then cut each slice across the width, into 
strips one quarter of an inch thick. This will make the 
lardoons one quarter of an inch wide and thick and two 
inches long. Insert one end of the lardoon into the end 
of the larding-needle, then with the point of the needle 
take up a stitch half an inch deep and one inch wide in 
the surface of the meat. Draw the needle through, and 
help the pork to go through by pushing until partly through, 
then hold the end of the pork and draw the needle out, 
leaving the pork in the meat, with the ends projecting 
at equal lengths. Take up more stitches one inch apart 
in parallel or alternate rows, until the whole surface is 
covered. 

Daubing is applied to a broad, thick piece of beef or 
veal. Cut the pork in strips one third of an inoh wide and 
thick, and as long as the meat is thick. Punch a hole 
clear through the meat with a steel, and then insert the 



26 The Boston Cook Book. 



lardoon with a large larding-needle or with the fingers. 
The salt and fat from the lardoons penetrate the inside of 
the meat, and by many are considered an improvement. 
Those who object to the pork will find that beef may be 
seasoned as well by covering the surface with nice beef 
suet, salted ; or the pork may be laid on the meat and 
removed after cooking. The process is not difficult, re- 
quiring no more skill than any other kind of sewing. 

Boning. 

Any one who can use a sharp knife, and scrape meat or 
fish from a bone, without cutting her own flesh, can bone 
anything, from the smallest bird, chop, or fish, to a leg or 
forequarter of lamb, or a turkey. A small knife with a 
sharp, short, pointed blade, is all that is required. It is 
well to begin on a small scale b} r removing the bone from 
a chop or steak. The aim is to remove the flesh from the 
bone without cutting into the flesh, or destroying its shape 
more than is necessary. 

To Bone a Chop or Steak. — Begin at the bone end, scrape 
the meat awa}% leaving the bone clean and the flesh un- 
broken. If there be a piece of tenderloin under the bone, 
remove it, and put it up close to the meat, which was 
above the bone in the original form. 

Directions for boning fish are given on page 161. 

To Bone a Leg of Mutton* — Cut it off at the first joint, 
insert the knife near the joint, and loosen the flesh from 
the bone, leaving all the gristle and tendons on the bone. 
Then begin at the tail end, and scrape the fat away from 
the backbone, then follow the bone (you can easily tell by 
the feeling, if you cannot see it) until you come to the 
joint ; leave all the gristle and cords on the bone, and con- 
tinue scraping off the flesh till the whole bone is out. One 
could easily cut through from the outside to the bone and 
remove it in that way ; but the flesh would have to be 
sewed together, and much of the juice would escape. 
After removing the bone, stuff the cavity left by the bone, 



The Boston Cook Book. 2) 

and sew the skin together at the smaller end. Then bring 
the edges together at the upper end, crowding all the flesh 
inside, and sew the skin together tightly. This gives a 
rectangular form of solid meat and stuffing. When salted 
and floured and exposed to a hot oven, the juices are kept 
inside ; the meat is more conveniently served, and, when 
cold, does not become dry and hard. 

Any other pieces of meat are boned in a similar manner. 

To Bone a Bird, Fowl, or Turkey. — In this case the 
flesh is to be kept in the skin in order to preserve the 
shape. The skin should be firm and unbroken, and 
the bird should not be drawn. Eemove the head and pin- 
feathers, singe and wipe carefully. Remove the tendons 
from the legs, and loosen the skin round the end of the 
drumstick. Make an incision through the skin from the 
neck to the middle of the back, or near the junction of 
the side bone. Scrape the flesh with the skin away from 
the backbone until you feel the end of the shoulder-blade ; 
loosen the flesh from this, and then follow the bone to the 
wing joint, and down to the middle joint in the wing. 
The skin lies very near the bone underneath the joint, 
and care must be taken to avoid cutting through the skin 
at these places. Leave the first bone in the wing to aid 
in keeping the shape ; it may be removed before serving. 
In small birds there is so little meat on the wings, that 
it is just as well to cut them off at the middle joint. Re- 
move the bone from the other wing in the same way, then 
follow the collar bone from the wing down to the breast- 
bone, loosening the crop from the flesh. In removing the 
flesh from the breastbone, be careful not to cut through 
the skin on the ridge. The flesh may be pushed away 
with the fingers, and the fillets or pieces that are detached 
from the other flesh can be laid aside, and put in place 
afterwards. When the breastbone is bare, separate the 
flesh from the ribs, and be careful not to break through 
the membrane into the inside. Remove the flesh round 
the second joint, then the drumsticks, turning the flesh 
wrong side out as in pulling a glove from the finger. 



28 The Boston Cook Book. 

Repeat this process on the other side. Then scrape down 
to the end of the backbone, and cut through the bone, 
leaving a part of it in the tail. Separate the membrane 
under the body without breaking. Thus you have the 
flesh in the skin, and the skeleton left entire with the con- 
tents undisturbed in the inside. Lay the stuffing in, filling 
out the legs and wings, then sew the skin along the back, 
and skewer or tie into the original shape. 

An easier way of boning a fowl where it is to be rolled 
like a galantine^ is to cut off the wings at the second joint, 
break the drumstick half-way from the joint, cut the skin 
down the entire length of the back, remove the flesh from 
the wing and second joint, turning the skin and flesh off 
like a glove ; then do the same on the other wing and leg, 
leaving the breast till the last. The wings and legs are 
turned inside, the stuffing is laid in the flesh, and the 
whole rolled over and over, and sewed on the edge of the 
skin and at the ends of the roll. 

Measuring. 

It has been said that " good cooks never measure any- 
thing." They do. They measure by judgment and ex- 
perience ; and until you have a large share of both these 
essential qualities, use your spoon and cup or scales. 

Measures, in preference to weights, are used in nearly 
all these receipts, as they are more convenient for the ma- 
jority of housekeepers. When measured and estimated by 
the Table of Weights and Measures on page 30, the cup 
and spoon may be used as accurately as the scales. 

Flour, meal, sugar, salt, spices, and soda should al- 
ways be sifted before measuring. Any other materials 
that have been packed, like mustard and baking powder, 
if not sifted, should be stirred, and broken up lightly. 
One tablespoonful of solid mustard taken carelessly from 
the box has been found equal to three tablespoonfuls 
measured after sifting. 

The saltspoons, teaspoons, and tablespoons used in these 
receipts are the silver spoons now in general use. Iron 



The Boston Cook Book. 29 

mixing-spoons vary much in size, but there is a size which 
holds exactly the same as a silver tablespoon. Be careful 
to use this size in measuring. The cup is the common 
kitchen cup holding half a pint. Those with handles are 
more convenient. ' 

To measure a teaspoonful of dry material, dip into the 
sifted material, and take up a heaping spoonful, shake it 
slightly until it is just rounded over, or convex in the 
same proportion as the spoon is concave. An even or scant 
teaspoonful means the spoon filled lightly, and levelled off 
with a knife. One half teaspoonful is most accurately 
measured by dividing through the middle lengthwise. 
When divided across the width the tip is smaller than the 
lower half. A heaping teaspoonful is all the spoon will 
hold of anj^ lightly sifted material. A teaspoonful of liquid 
is the spoon full to the brim. • 

Tablespoonfuls are measured in the same way. 

A cupful of dry material should be filled and heaped 
lightly (not shaken down), then levelled off even with the 
top. A small,scoop should be kept in the flour or sugar 
to use in filling the cup. A heaping cupful is all the cup will 
hold. A cupful of liquid is not what you can carry without 
spilling, but what the cup will hold without running over ; 
full to the brim. Place jour cup in a saucer^ while filling 
it, or in the bowl in which the liquid is to be poured. 
Half a cupful is not half the distance from the bottom to 
the rim. Most cups are smaller at the bottom, for which 
allowance must be made. Take two cups of the same 
size and shape, fill one with water, then pour the water 
without spilling into the other cup until it stands at the 
same level in both cups. This gives you the half-cupful 
exactly, which in the cups used here is two thirds of the 
height, or within an inch of the top. The quarter and 
three-quarter measures may be found in the same way. A 
scant cupful is within a quarter of an inch of the top. 

"Butter the size of an egg" is a very common expression. 
This equals about one quarter of a cupful, or two ounces, 
or one heaping tablespoonful, either of which is more easily 



30 The* Boston Cook Booh. 

written than the first expression. Place an egg in one 
tablespoon, then pack butter in another till it fills the 
spoon in the same proportion as the egg, and you will 
easily carry it in mind. 

Have jour materials measured or at hand, and all uten- 
sils ready before beginning the mixing, or putting the 
ingredients together. Keep a bucket or pan full of flour, 
freshly sifted each day, and ready for use. Measure flour 
first, and put it in a bowl or pan together with salt, soda, 
cream of tartar, and spice ; measure butter and put it in 
the mixing-bowl ; then measure the sugar, and, in scraping 
out the sugar, take the butter which has adhered to the 
cup. Break your eggs on the edge of the cup ; if the white 
be clear, the egg is good. Put the yolks in one bowl and 
the whites in another ; measure the milk or liquid, and, 
after using the beaten yolk, clean out the bowl with the 
milk. Or, measure all the dry ingredients, break and sep- 
arate the eggs, measure the milk, add it to the beaten 
yolks, and measure the melted butter last. In either way 
you can make one cup do for all without washing. " Two 
eggs beaten separately " means that the yolks and whites 
are to be beaten separately, not each whole egg beaten 
separately. 

A tablespoonful of melted butter is measured after melt- 
ing. A tablespoonful of butter melted is measured before 
melting. 

To economize space, in many of the receipts the abbre- 
viations are written : one cup for one cupful, tablesp. for 
tablespoonful, teasp. for teaspoonful, and saltsp. for salt- 
spoonful. All these measures mean a full measure, unless 
scant or heaping measures are specified. 

Table of Weights and Measures. 

4 saltspoonfuls of liquid = 1 teaspoonful. 

4 teaspoonf uls of liquid = 1 tablespoonful. 

3 teaspoonfuls of dry material. = 1 tablespoonful. 

4 tablespoonfnls of liquid — 1 wineglass, or \ gill, or £ cup. 
2 gills = 1 cup, or £ pint. 



The Boston Cook Book. 31 

16 tablespoonfuls of liquid = 1 cup. 

12 tablespoonfuls of dry material = 1 cup. 

8 heaping tablespoonfuls of dry material = 1 cup, 
4 cups of liquid = 1 quart 

4 cups of flour = 1 pound, or 1 quart* 

2 cups of solid butter = 1 pound. 

| cup of butter = £ pound. 

2 cups of granulated sugar = 1 pound. 
2& cups of powdered sugar = 1 pound. 

3 cups of meal = 1 pound. 
1 pint of milk or water = 1 pound. 
1 pint of chopped meat packed solidly = 1 pound. 

9 large eggs, 10 medium eggs = 1 pound. 
1 round tablespoonf ul of butter = 1 ounce. 

1 heaping tablespoonf ul of butter = 2 ounces, or £ cup 

Butter the size of an egg = 2 ounces, or £ cup 

1 heaping tablespoonf ul of sugar = 1 ounce. 

2 round tablespoonfuls of flour = 1 ounce. 
2 round tablespoonf uls of coffee =: 1 ounce. 
2 round tablespoonfuls of powd sugar = 1 ounce. 
1 tablespoonf ul of liquid = J ounce. 

1 bottle S. M. wine = 3 cups, or 48 tablespoonfuls. 

1 bottle brandy = 1$ cups, or 24 tablespoonfuls. 

1 small bottle Fobs' extract = ± cup scant, or 3 tablespoonf ula 

1 small bottle Foes' extract = 12 teaspoonf uls. 

1 flask of olive oil = 1£ cups, or 20 tablespoonfuls. 



Table of Proportions. 

1 scant measure of liquid to 3 full measures of flour, for bread. 

1 scant measure of liquid to 2 full measures of flour, for muffins. 

1 scant measure of liquid to 1 full measure of flour, for batters. 

4 cup of yeast, or f of compressed yeastcake, to one pint of liquid. 

1 even teasp. of soda and 2 full teasp. of cream tartar to 1 quart of flour. 

3 heaping, or 4 even teaspoonf uls, of baking powder to 1 quart of flour. 

1 teaspoonf ul of soda to 1 pint of sour milk. 

1 teaspoonful of soda to 1 cup of molasses. 

1 saltspoonful of salt to 1 quart of milk for custards. 

1 teaspoonful of extract to 1 quart of custard. 

1 saltspoonful of salt to 1 loaf of spooge cake. 

1 teaspoonful of extract to 1 loaf of plain cake. 

1 saltspoonful of spice to 1 loaf of plain cake. 

1 teaspoonful of salt to 1 quart of soup stock or 2 quarts of flour. 

1 saltspoonful of white pepper to 1 quart of soup stock. 

1 teaspoonful of mixed herbs to 1 quart of soup stock. 

1 tablespoonful of each chopped vegetable to 1 quart of soup stock. 

A speck of cayenne pepper is what you can take up on the point of a pan- 
knife or on a quarter-inch square surface. 

A pinch of salt or spice is about a saltspoonful. 

A pinch of hops is \ of a cup. 



32 The Boston Cook Book. 

The proportions of seasoning given in these receipts are 
not sufficient for those who like highly seasoned food. It 
is easier to add more, than to remove any if too highly 
seasoned. 



Mixed Spice for Rich Cakes and Plum Puddings. 

£ teaspoonful each of cloves and allspice. 

1 teaspoonful each of mace and grated nutmeg. 

3 teaspoonf uls of cinnamon. 



Spice Salt for Soups and Stuffings. 

4 ounces of salt. 

2 ounces of celery salt. 

1 ounce each of white pepper and ground thyme. 

1 ounce each of marjoram and summer savory. 

£ ounce of sage. 

1 saltspoonful of cayenne pepper. 

$ teaspoonful each of cloves, allspice, and mace* 

Mix, sift, and keep closely covered. 



Mixed Whole Herbs, for Soups and Braised Meats. 

1 bunch each of whole thyme and marjoram. 
1 bunch each of summer savory and sage. 
i pound of bay leaves. 

Crush and break the leaves, blossoms, and stalks, and 
mix thoroughly. 

Mixing* 

Next to care in measuring comes the manner of mixing. 
The most accurate measurement of the best materials is 
often rendered useless by a neglect to put them together 
properly, and the blame is usually charged to the oven or 
the receipt. There are three distinct ways of mixing: 
Stirring, Beating, and Cutting or Folding. 

Stirring. — Let the bowl of the spoon rest slightly on 
the bottom of the mixing-bowl; then move round and 
round in widening circles, without lifting the spoon out of 



The Boston Cook Booh 33 

the mixture, except to scrape the sides of the bowl occa- 
sionally. Stir slowlj* at first, to avoid spattering ; add the 
liquid gradually, and be sure the bowl of the spoon (not 
the edge nor the tip merety) touches the bottom and sides 
of the bowl. This is mashing as well as stirring, and the 
mixture soon becomes a paste. When perfectl3 r smooth 
and free from lumps, add more liquid till you have the 
desired consistency. We stir flour and water together for 
a thickening, or butter and flour and milk for a sauce. 
We stir when we rub butter to a cream, or when we make 
a batter or semi-dough. When we make a stiff dough we 
stir at first, and then turn the whole mass over, bringing 
the knife or spoon round the bowl and cutting up through 
the dough. 

Beating. — Tip the bowl slightly, and hold the spoon so 
that the edge scrapes the bowl, and bring it up through 
the mixture and over with a long quick flop to the oppo- 
site side ; under, and up through again, lifting the spoon 
out of the mass and cutting clear through, scraping from 
the bottom at every stroke. Keep the bowl of the spoon 
and the sides of the mixing-bowl well scraped out, that 
all the material may be equally beaten. 

We stir simply to blend two or more materials ; we 
beat to entangle all the air possible in the mixture. We 
beat eggs or batter or soft dough. The albumen of the 
eggs and the gluten of the flour, owing to their viscidity or 
glutinous properties, catch the air and hold it in the form 
of cells, something as we make soap bubbles by blowing 
air into soapy water. The faster we beat, and the more 
we bring the material up from the bowl into the air, the 
more bubbles we have ; but one stirring motion will de- 
stroy them. Yolks of eggs should be beaten nearly as 
much as the whites, or till they are light or lemon-colored, 
and thicken perceptibly. The whites should be beaten till 
they are stiff and dry, or fly off in flakes, or can be turned 
upside down without spilling. When the two are to be 
put together, always plan to turn the whites into the yolks, 

as there is less waste than when the yolks are turned into 

8 



34 The Boston Cook Book. 

the whites. Let the whites stand a minute, then ran a 
palette knife round the edge close to the bowl ; they will 
slip out easity, and leave the bowl almost clean. For 
beating eggs, for nearly all purposes the Dover egg-beater 
is the best. There should be two sizes, the larger one for 
the whites of eggs. Hold the beater lightly in the left 
hand, and move it round through the egg while turning 
the handle. For frosting, and snow pudding, and all beat* 
ing of soft dough, use a perforated wooden spoon. Bowls 
with slightly flaring sides, and not too deep to be clasped 
from bottom to rim in the left hand, are most convenient. 
If tipped slightly toward the right, the beating is done 
more effectual^. 

Gutting, or Folding, or Lifting. — Omelets, sponge cake, 
whipped cream, etc., should have the beaten white cut or 
folded in carefully to avoid breaking the air bubbles. Turn 
the mixture over with the spoon, cut through, lift up, and 
fold the materials together, lifting the part from below, up 
and over, and mixing very gently until just blended. Do 
not stir round and round, nor beat quickly. 

AH mixtures which are raised with eggs alone, should 
have the yolks and whites of the eggs thoroughly and 
separately beaten ; any very thin batter, like pop-overs, 
pancakes, or gems made without eggs, should be beaten 
vigorously just before baking. Graham or whole-wheat 
flour is better than white flour for gems that are made 
without eggs, because it contains more gluten. 

Shall we stir only one way? No; stir any way you 
please, so long as you blend or mix the materials. But 
after beating in air bubbles, don't break them by stirring, 
unless you wish to keep up the game of cross purposes 
indefinitely. Always let the last motion, before turning 
into the pans, be one of quick, vigorous beating ; except 
in those receipts where folding instead of beating is 
indicated. 



The Boston Cook Book. 



35 



Table of Average Cost of Material used in Cooking. 



cup of flour or meal 



tt 



sugar 
batter 



it 



ti 



it 



u 



egg 

cup of molasses . 

44 milk. . . 
tablespoonful of wine 

44 brandy 
teaspoonful of vanilla 
spice . 
soda, and 2 
teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar 
tablespoonf ul of butter . 
Butter size of an egg . . 
tablespoonful of olive oil 
tablespoonf uls of coffee . 
teaspoonfuls of tea . . 
quart of milkman's cream 

44 Deerfoot cream 
box of gelatine . . 

lemon 

orange .... 
pound of raisins . 
currants . 
citron 
crackers 
tapioca . 
rice . . 
macaroni 



u 
It 



tt 



tf 
It 



it 



$0.01 
.06 
.20 
.03 
.05 
.02 
.02 
.04 
.02 
.02 



.02 
.03 
.05 
.02 
.05 
.01 
.25 
.60 
.16 
.02 
.03 
18 
.10 
.18 
.10 
.07 
.09 
.18 



1 pound of spaghetti . 
1 '* cornstarch . 

1 can of tomatoes . . 
1 " salmon . . . 
1 " lobster . . . 
1 u devilled ham and 
1 tumbler of jelly . . 
1 jar of marmalade . . 
1 pound of tea 
1 
1 

i 
i 
i 
i 
i 
I 



it 



tt 
ti 

It 

tt 



It 



U 



coffee • • . 

chocolate . . 

nutmeg . . . 

mace .... 

cloves, cassia » 

ginger . . . 

mustard . . . 

herbs, ground . 
Package of whole herbs . 
1 pound of cheese . . . 
1 44 Parmesan cheese 
1 peck of potatoes 
1 44 apples . 
1 quart of onions 
1 carrot .... 
1 turnip .... 
1 bunch of celery 
1 handful of parsley 
1 bunch of watercresses 
1 head of lettuce . . . 



$0.16 
.10 
.15 
.18 
.15 
tongue .30 
.35 
.25 
.75 
.38 
.40 
.32 
.60 
.15 
.10 
.12 
.10 
8 
.18 
.50 
.25 
.50 
.10 
.02 
.05 
.20 
.05 
.05 
.10 



These prices are for the best materials, and are esti- 
mated for the season, from October to June, when butter 
and eggs are higher than during the summer. 



36 The Boston Cook Book. 



BREAD AND BREAD MAKING. 

Importance of Bread. — Bread is one of the earliest, the 
most generally used, and the most important forms of 
food adopted by mankind. Nothing in the whole range 
of domestic life more affects the health and happiness of 
the family than the quality of its daily bread. With good 
bread, the plainest meal is a feast in itself ; without it, the 
most elaborately prepared and elegantly served menu is 
unsatisfactory. 

Bread-making is at once the easiest and the most difficult 
branch of culinary science, — easj*, if only sufficient inter- 
est be taken to master a few elementary principles and 
to follow them alwa} T s, using the judgment of the best 
authorities, until experience furnishes a sufficient guide ; 
difficult, if there be any neglect to use proper care and 
materials. It should be regarded as one of the highest 
accomplishments ; and if one tenth part of the interest, 
time, and thought which are devoted to cake and pastry 
and fancy cooking were spent upon this most important 
article of food, the presence of good bread upon our tables 
would be invariabl}- secured. 

Origin and Meaning of "Bread." — Bread is made from a 
variety of substances, — roots, fruits, and the bark of trees ; 
but more generally from certain grains. The word bread 
is derived from the verb to bray, or pound, expressive of the 
old method of preparing the grain. Bread is therefore 
made of something bra}*ed, as brayed wheat or brayed 
com. But these bra}*ed or ground materials are not prop- 
erly bread until they are mixed or moistened with water. 
Then the brayed grain becomes dough, from a word mean- 
ing to wet, or moisten. In primitive times this wetted 
meal or dough was baked at once in hot ashes, and made 



The Boston Cook Book. 37 

a firm, compact bread, exceedingly hard of digestion. 
Accidentally some one discovered that by letting the dough 
stand till it had fermented, and then mixing if with new 
dough, it raised, or lilted, the whole mass, and made it 
lighter and more porous. Thus we have our word loaf, 
from lijian, to raise, or lift up. The old dough — or leaven, 
as it is called — lifts up the dough. The raised mass is held 
in place by the heat in baking, and beeomes the loaf of 
raised bread. 

Bread made from What. — Bread is made principally from 
wkeat flour, liye and corn meal are sometimes used, but 
better results are obtained when there is a mixture of wheat 
with one or more of these grains. Rye used alone makes 
a close, moist, stieky bread ; while corn meal alone makes 
too dry and crumbly a loaf. 

Wheat is an annual grass of unknown origin, cultivated 
more extensively in the Northern hemisphere. There are 
over one hundred and fifty varieties of wheat. They are 
classified as red or white, in reference to the color of the 
grains; as winter or summer, — winter wheat being sown 
in the autumn, and summer wheat in the spring ; as soft 
or hard, — soft wheat being tender and floury or starchy, 
and hard wheat being tough, Arm, and containing more 
gluten. 

Ghemir.al Composition of Wheat. — Wheat is the only grain 
which contains gluten in the proper proportion and of the 
desired quality essential to 
the making of light, spongy 
bread. It contains all the 
elements necessary for the 
growth of the body , but, to 
meet all the requirements of 
nutrition, the whole of the 
grain, with the exception of P[o J „ inof wheat showing outer 

the outer hUSk, Should be coat of silex and woody Hbre. 

used. Wheat has several 

layers of bran coats, the outer one of which is almost wholly 
pure silica and is perfectly indigestible. Underneath this 



The Boston Cook Book. 



husk lie the inner bran coats, containing gluten, a dark sub- 
stance which is the nitrogenous or flesh- forming element, 
the phosphates and other min- 
eral matters which help to 
make up the bony parts of 
the body, and the oil which 
gives the characteristic odor 
to wheat grains. The cen- 
tre, or heart, of the grain 
consists of cells filled with 
starch, a fine, white, mealy 
powder, which has little value as food except as a heat 
producer. There is also a small amount of gluten dif- 
fused among the starch cells. For convenience, these dif- 
ferent parts of the wheat will be designated as bran, or 
the outer husk ; gluten, or 
the inner bran coats ; and 

starch, or the heart of the C 

wheat. The proportion and 
quality of the gluten and 
starch in different kinds of 

wheat vary according to the a 

climate and soil in which 
they are grown. They are .,^"t Gra ^ Df * hMt m ***' lB «" 1 

J * ■> A ib the bran ; B the gluten ; C the Much, 

also affected by the method 

of grinding the gram. Wheat grown in Southern or warm 
climates, and in the intense, though short, summer of our 
own Northwest, contains more nitrogen than that grown in 
. cold, damp climates. It loses more water by evaporation, 
and consequently the seed is smaller and harder. In some 
varieties of wheat the outer huek is thin and smooth, and 
peels off readily under the stones. In others, it is thick 
and rough, and adheres closely to the kernel. In some, it 
is light-colored or brittle ; in others, daik-colored or tough. 
The husky portion of wheat is about fourteen or sixteen 
per cent of the whole weight. 

The gluten of wheat is a gray, tough, elastic substance, 
consisting chiefly of vegetable fibrine. It can be examined 



The Boston Cook Book. 39 

easily by making a dough of flour and water, and working 
it on a sieve under a stream of water. The water will 
carry the starch, sugar, gum, and mineral matters into the 
pan below, leaving a lump of gluten on the sieve. It 
closely resembles a piece of animal skin, and, when dried, 
has a glue-like appearance ; hence its name, gluten. The 
proportion of gluten varies from eleven to fifteen per cent. 
This tough, elastic quality of the gluten determines the 
quality of the flour. The more gluten and the tougher or 
stronger it is, the better the flour. The gluten of good 
flour will swell to four or five times its original bulk ; while 
that of poor flour does not swell, but becomes watery and 
sticky, and sometimes gives off a disagreeable odor, owing 
to the deterioration ol the fatty or oily element. 

Preparing the Floor. 

St. Louis Process. — There are several methods of con- 
verting wheat into flour. One is by grinding between two 
horizontal stones, the upper one revolving, and the lower 
one stationary. The surface of the stones presents an 
infinite number of minute cutting edges. The upper stone 
is convex, the lower one concave ; but instead of fitting 
perfectlj 7 , they, approach closer together from the centre 
outward, so that, as the grain is poured into an opening in 
the upper stone, it is at first rather coarsely crushed, and 
then cut finer and finer, as it is carried to the circumfer- 
ence by the centrifugal force. As the grain leaves the 
stones, the outer husk has been least affected ; the tough, 
coherent gluten is divided minutely, while the brittle starch, 
which forms two thirds of the grain, is completely crushed. 
The miller then divides these products, by sifting or bolt- 
ing, into fine flour ^ coarse flour ', and bran. 

The bran should be discarded as utterly useless for 
human food ; but it is often mixed with an inferior quality 
of fine flour, and sold as Graham flour. It was at one 
time considered valuable as a food for those suffering 
from constipation, chiefly on account of its coarseness ; but 



40 The Boston Cook Booh. 

science has shown us recently that minute points of glass 
(and bran is nothing else) are not Nature's best agents in 
removing effete matters from the s} T stem. All of the so- 
called Graham flour made by this process should be sifted 
before using. 

The coarse flour will vary in quality, according as it has 
more or less of the outer bran mixed with it. "In the soft 
wheats the husk peels off readily under the stones, and is 
easily separated b}* bolting ; and as these soft varieties 
contain the smallest proportion of gluten, the}' yield a coarse 
flour, containing only an average amount of gluten, and 
the whitest fine-flour. But in the hard, flinty wheats, this 
outer husk clings so closely that much of it is ground up 
finely with the flour, giving it a dark color. This flour, as 
it contains a large proportion of gluten, would be more 
nutritious were it not that much of the gluten adheres to 
the hulls, and is lost by sifting them out, and much of the 
fine, flinty bran is retained in the flour, which makes it 
irritating and indigestible. 

The quality of the fine flour depends upon the quality of 
the wheat, in the first place ; also upon the number of sitt- 
ings, being richer in gluten the less it is sifted ; and upon 
the way in which it is stored. The process of grinding 
with the stones heats the flour ; and as it is often thrust 
upon the market without being properly cooled and dried, 
it spoils very rapidh r . Flour made by this process of 
grinding is called the St. Louis, or old-process flour. When 
made of the very best quality of grain and carefully pre- 
pared, it makes a sweet, nutritious bread, and is excellent 
in cake and pastrj 7 . It is often designated pastry flour. 

Haxall Process. — Another method of making flour is 
by the new, or Haxall process, so called from the name of 
the inventor. B} T this process the outer husk is first re- 
moved, or decorticated; then the cleaned grain is cut by a 
system of knives, which reduces it to a fine powder with- 
out the injurious effects of heating. This flour has a 
slightly granular consistenc}-, owing to the presence of 
minute particles of hard, flinty eluten. It is usually made 



The Boston Cook Book. 41 

from the best quality of wheat, and keeps well. It is con- 
sidered by many as the best flour for bread, as it makes a 
whiter, nicer-looking loaf. Haxall flour swells more than 
that made by the old process, as it contains more of the 
gluten ; the same measure making a greater quantity of 
bread than the St. Louis flour. It is, therefore, cheaper 
in the end, though costing more per barrel. By repeated 
sidings, this flour loses its gluten, as does that made by 
the St. Louis process, and consequently is then inferior as 
a food. But we can supply by other flours and other food 
what this flour lacks in nutritious qualities ; and until the 
popular taste is educated to demand the amount of nutri- 
ment contained in bread rather than the whiteness of it, as 
a test of its qualit}', it is well to make our fine, white bread 
from this, which is the best flour, and have it as nearly 
perfect as possible. 

There have been man}' variations of the Haxall process, 
and all are included under the term new-process jlour. 

Minnesota. — The Minnesota, or patent-process, flour is 
now considered one of the best grades. The Washburn, 
Pillsbury, and man}* other mills located in Minneapolis are 
the largest flour-mills in the world, and produce an excel- 
lent quality of flour, in which a large proportion of the 
gluten is retained. This Minnesota flour is made from 
carefully selected wheat grown in the Red River region, 
the best wheat-growing section in America. The first step 
in the process is the breaking off of the germinal point of 
each grain by what are called ending stones. Then it is 
sent through corrugated iron rollers, having shallow grooves 
cut spirally upon them, with rounded ridges between, and 
the opposing rollers grooved in an opposite direction. The 
grains are crushed (not ground) ; the starchy parts, or 
middlings, being quite finely powdered and easily separa- 
ted from the bran or tailings. After this separation the 
middlings are passed through ten bolting-cloths, and 
then through other and finer corrugated machines, and 
made into the various grades of Jine, superfine, &nd fancy 
flours. 



42 The Boston Cook Booh. 

Health-Food Flour. — A still better method of convert- 
ing wheat into flour, and one which is indorsed by leading 
scientists and physicians, has been recently introduced by 
the Health Food Company of New York. Only the choicest 
kinds of wheat are used. The outer husk is first removed 
by moistening the grain, and subjecting it to a gentle rub- 
bing by what is termed the ''attrition process." This 
softens the woody fibre of the outer bran, which is easily 
removed by sifting, but does not affect the hard gluten 
coats. The grains are dried, then pulverized into various 
grades b} r a compressed cold-air blast, which dashes the 
grains into atoms with tremendous force. This is called 
whole-wheat flour, the name indicating that the whole of the 
gluten, or nutritive part of the flour, is retained. It is not 
sifted like other flours, but pulverized iuto all the varieties 
of crushed wheat, coarse granulated and fine granulated wheat; 
each variety, even the finest flour, containing all that is 
valuable as food. Bread made with this flour has been 
found, after repeated trial, to be sweet and agreeable to the 
taste, light and spongy in texture, with none of the objec- 
tionable features of Graham bread, and answering fully all 
the demands of perfect nutrition. 

Cheap inferior Graham flour, made of poor flour mixed 
with bran, is worse than no food at all. Any flour con- 
taining much of the indigestible bran causes irritation of 
the digestive organs ; all the food is hurried through the 
alimentary canal before digestion is complete or all the 
nutriment can be absorbed, and thus is neither economical 
nor healthful. Fine flour containing the most gluten is the 
most nutritious, because it is all digested, and the loss of 
albuminous material can be supplied from other sources. 

The Arlington, the Franklin, and some other brands of 
whole-wheat flour, are highly indorsed by those familiar 
with them. 

The Tests of Good Flour. 

The first requisite in making good bread is to use good 
flour. Good flour should not be pure white in color, but 



The Boston Cook Book. 43 



of a creamy, yellowish-white shade. If it feel damp, 
clammy, or sticky, and gradually form into lumps or 
cakes, it is not the best. Good flour holds together in a 
mass, when squeezed by the hand, and retains the impres- 
sion of the fingers, and even the marks of the skin, much 
longer than poor flour; when made into a dough, it is 
elastic, easy to be kneaded, will stay in a round pufly 
shape, and will take up a large amount of water : while 
poor flour will be sticky, flatten, or spread itself over the 
board, and will never seem to be stiff enough to be handled, 
no matter how much flour is used. Haxall flour has a fine 
granular consistency, and runs easily through the sieve or 
the fingers like fine meal ; while good St. Louis flour feels 
soft and oily. It is extravagant to buy poor or even 
doubtful flour. But, should it have every appearance of 
being good flour, and jet not make good bread, do not 
condemn the flour without a fair trial ; and be sure the 
fault is nowhere else. 

Every experienced cook has her own tests for flour, and 
some of them are amusing, if not reliable. The best way 
is to buy a small quantity at first, and make it into dough ; 
then, if satisfactory, purchase whatever amount is re- 
quired, and buy this same brand as long as it proves of 
uniform quality. The names given to flour are not a sure 
criterion of the quality. The flour may come from the 
same growth of wheat, and be ground in the same manner 
and at the same mill, and yet the miller or the wholesale 
dealers will brand it differently, And the same brand will 
vary in quality from year to year. Some of the varieties 
sold in Boston, and known to be good by personal trial, 
are Archibald's Extra, Washburn's, Spaulding, Corrugated, 
Taylor's Best, Brown's Best, Marguerite, etc. ; the same 
flour may be known in other cities under different names. 
There are others equally good, and every }^ear some new 
brand is announced. It is estimated that one barrel of 
flour will last one person one year ; which gives a rule of 
proportion by which to buy. Most good housekeepers 
agree that flour is not improved by long keeping, though 



44 The Boston Cook Booh. 

flour dealers think differently. Flour should be kept in a 
cool, dry place, as the least dampness causes it to absorb 
moisture ; the gluten loses its tenacity, becomes sticky, 
and the bread made from it is coarser and less light. 

For small families it is better to buy whole-wheat flour 
by the bag or half-barrel ; Haxall, for bread, by the bar- 
rel ; and the best St. Louis flour for cake and pastry, by 
the bag, as a much smaller proportion is needed (or should 
be) for these iudigestibles, than for the " staff of life." 

Bread, Fermented and Unfermented. 

Now, having discussed the subject of the flour, the next 
step in order is the different ways of making it into bread. 
These may all be included under two divisions, — those 
made by fermentation, and those without fermentation. 

Fermentation, what is it ? — Fermentation is that change 
in organic substances by which their sugar, starch, gluten, 
etc., are decomposed or recombined into new compounds. 
This change may be spontaneous under favorable condi- 
tions of air, moisture, and warmth ; or it may be hastened 
by the presence of a ferment. A ferment is some albu- 
minous substance in a state of decomposition, and, when 
introduced into any other* albuminous substance, in how- 
ever minute a quantity, causes a change which pervades 
the whole mass. These fermenting substances are in great 
variety, and the germs of some of them are always present 
in the air. There are different kinds of fermentation. 

The lactic fermentation is the change in milk when it 
sours. The casein, or albuminous part of the milk, by 
exposure to the air and warmth, begins to decompose, 
becomes a ferment, and changes the sugar of the milk into 
an acid called lactic acid. This reacts upon the remainder 
of the milk, as any acid would, and causes it to coagulate 
or harden, and gives it a sour taste. 

The alcoholic fermentation is that which is produced in 
substances rich in sugar or starch, as the fruits and grains 
from which wines and beer are made. Some of these fer- 



The Boston Cook Book. 45 



ment germs are present in the juice of grapes ; and under 
the influence of air, moisture, and warmth, they seize 
upon the sugar already present in the natural fruit juices, 
and any that may be added, and convert it into carbonic 
acid gas and alcohol. In the grains, a portion of the 
gluten ferments and changes the starch into sugar, and 
then the sugar into carbonic acid and alcohol. In con- 
verting the starch into sugar there is no change evident to 
the eye ; but as soon as the sugar is decomposed into alco- 
hol and carbonic acid gas, large bubbles of gas appear, 
which swell the whole mass. 

Acetic fermentation is caused by allowing alcoholic fer- 
mentation to go on beyond a certain limit, or in a tem- 
perature above 90°. A familiar illustration of this is the 
change of wine or cider into vinegar. 

Now, bread-dough contains gluten, sugar, and starch ; 
and if the dough be kept warm for a certain time, lactic 
fermentation will be developed spontaneously , and the bread 
made from such dough will be sour and heavy. Alco- 
holic fermentation can also be spontaneously produced in 
dough, by making first a batter (as the semi-fluid state 
is more favorable to rapid chemical change), and subject- 
ing it to a temperature of 110° for five or six hours ; then, 
adding more flour, allowing it to rise again, and then 
baking it. Bread made in this way is called salt or milk- 
rising's bread. But it does not keep well, and is not gen- 
erally liked. 

It is not always convenient to wart for dough to be 
raised in this manner, so we hasten the process by the 
addition of some active ferment. Leaven, or a piece of 
old dough, left to sour, and then mixed with the new 
dough was formerly used ; this produced lactic as well as 
alcoholic fermentation, and though the bread was light and 
spongy in texture, it had an unpleasant sour taste. But 
since the chemistry of yeast fermentation has been under- 
stood, yeast has come to be considered the .best ferment for 
producing alcoholic fermentation in bread rapidly, and 
with no objectionable result. 



46 The Boston Cook Booh 



Yeast, what is it? — Yeast is a plant or germ of the 
fungus tribe. Under the microscope it is found to consist 
of numberless minute rounded or oval bodies which are 
true vegetable cells. Yeast is therefore one of the simplest 

and smallest of vegetable 
organisms. Each little 
cell consists of an en- 




„ XTM . veloping skin or mem- 

Pio. 4. Yeast Plant , ^ © 

brane, containing a liquid 
or sap. They grow or expand from the minutest micro- 
scopic points, and seem to bud off from each other and 
multiply into many millions to the cubic inch. These 
cells are easily propagated in any medium where they find 
congenial food, particularly in the juice of grapes. If 
grape-juice be filtered and left to stand in a warm place 
two or three hours, it becomes first cloudy, then thick, and 
gives off bubbles of gas, showing there has been some 
change in its composition. In a short time a grayish* 
yellow froth, or layer of yeast cells, collects on the surface. 
44 Whether the germs or spores of the yeast plant exist 
already in the juices of the living grape, or whether thev 
are always floating in the air, and cling to the exterior of 
the fruit, and only become mixed with the juice in the wine- 
press, is not known ; " neither is it known just how they 
decompose the sugar of the grape. But it is enough for 
our purpose to know that they grow in the juice and ex- 
pand there, and that an active ferment may be dissolved 
out of these yeast cells, sufficient to cause alcoholic 
fermentation. 

The natural development of yeast through the agency of 
plants is too slow and inconvenient a process to rely upon ; 
therefore we manufacture it from various substances rich 
in starch and sugar. Brewer's yeast is made from malt, 
or sprouting grain, usually barley ; home-made yeast, from 
flour and potatoes. 

Yeast Bread Jhe Result of Chemical Changes. — Bread 
properly made with yeast undergoes certain chemical 
changes which render it lighter, more porous, more pleas- 



The Boston Cook Book. 47 

_ "■■  ■»    ■"'  .i . . 1 . _ 

ant to the taste, and more healthful, because more easily 
digested, and more convenient for general use. It is gen- 
erally recommended by scientific and medical men as the 
best form of bread. 

Wheat contains a larger percentage of starch than of any- 
thing else. We learn, in the chapter on Digestion, that 
starch as such is not absorbed into the human system. It 
must first be transformed into sugar. All starch that is 
not changed into sugar by the process of cooking or before 
our food is eaten, is so changed by the ptyalin, or ferment of 
the saliva, and the ferment of the pancreatic fluid. Any 
process which produces this change for us makes our food 
more digestible. " Powdered alum will dissolve in water 
sooner than a crystal of alum." Any fluid will penetrate 
more easily through a sponge than through putty, and the 
salivary and gastric fluids are no exception to this rule. 
Wheat starch in its natural state is close and compact ; and 
bread made simply with flour and water, and baked at once, 
will be close, dry, and difficult to masticate and digest. 
Good bread should be sufficiently soft to be easily crushed 
in the mouth, and of such a light, spongy texture that all 
the starch cells may be ruptured, and the greatest possible 
amount of surface be presented to the action of the diges- 
tive fluids. To obtain these qualities in bread, we try to 
expand the dough as much as possible without destroying 
its natural sweetness. Owing to the peculiar elasticity 
and tenacity of the wheat gluten, this is very easily accom- 
plished by alcoholic fermentation. The flour is moistened 
with some warm liquid, yeast and salt are added, and it is 
then exposed for some hours to a temperature of about 
70°. The yeast changes some of the starch of the flour 
into sugar, and the sugar into alcohol and carbonic acid 
gas. This gas, being lighter than the dough, rises, and, in 
its efforts to escape, expands the elastic, glutinous dough 
into a mass two or three times its original bulk. The 
toughness or elasticity of the gluten prevents the gas from 
escaping ; and when this expansion has reached the desired 
limit, — that is, before the alcoholic fermentation has changed 



48 The Boston Cook Booh 



to the acetic and soured the dough, or the tough, glutinous 
walls of the air cells are broken, — we check the forma- 
tion of gas, and kill the ferment by baking the dough in a 
hot oven. The alcohol escapes into the oven ; some of the 
starch is changed into gum, and forms the crust ; and the 
rapid decomposition, produced by the intense heat, causes 
the crust to assume a brown color. 

Unfermented Bread. — This is made without yeast ; but 
the principle is the same as in fermented bread, namely, the 
liberation of gas within the dough. The gas escapes quickh', 
and all such bread must be baked as soon as possible after 
mixing. There are no chemical changes in the starch or 
sugar ; the elastic, glutinous dough is simply expanded by 
the gas. The starch cells are ruptured by the intense heat 
in baking ; but if the gas bubbles burst before the heat has 
fixed the gluten wall, the bread wi 1 be heavy. This gas 
is produced in the bread dough in various ways : 1st. By 
the gas in very cold water, and the air obtained by vig- 
orous beating; 2d. By the introduction of water under 
pressure, nighty charged with gas. The first method is 
only suitable for mixtures which are to be baked quickly 
in a very hot oven, and eaten immediately, like gems, 
puffs, etc. The latter method produces what is known as 
aerated bread, making a light, sweet, spongy loaf; but it 
is not practicable for home use. 3d. The usual method 
is by some gas-generating compound, as the union of an 
acid and an alkali; usually soda, with either sour milk, 
cream of tartar, or muriatic acid. This is a convenient 
form adopted by many people who think it hard work to 
make yeast bread. When the chemicals used are pure, 
and in such a proportion that the}* neutralize each other, 
and leave only Rochelle salt as a residue, this bread, if 
used only occasionally, is harmless. But Rochelle salt is 
a medicine, not a nutritive food ; and " those who are well 
do not need the disturbing influence of a medicine in their 
dailj 7 bread," and those who are ill do not often need this 
particular form of medicine. Through ignorance or care- 
lessness this bread is often made so that there is an excess 



The Boston Cook Book. 49 



of alkali or a residue of alum ; and then, if used habitually, 
it is injurious, and to some extent poisonous. It is con- 
venient to know how to make it well in an emergency, and 
it helps make variety. It is best, when freshly baked, in 
the form of small biscuit rather than in loaves, and is not 
as indigestible, when eaten hot, as hot j 7 east bread. But 
for a bread for general use, for bread that will keep well, 
for bread that will leave a sweet, clean taste in the mouth, 
for bread that will yield the most in bulk from a given 
amount of flour, for bread for promoting health, there is 
nothing equal to perfect, home-made yeast bread. It is 
not so difficult a task to make perfect bread as most young 
housekeepers imagine, or old housekeepers assert. It is 
not impossible for a young girl to succeed as well in her 
first attempt in this art as the mature housekeeper who 
counts her loaves*by the thousand, provided she learns the 
best way of making it, and uses a reasonable amount of 
common-sense. 

The Best Kinds of Yeast. 

Who made the first yeast ? and how does a young house* 
keeper start her own, when away from stores or friends, 
where she can neither buy nor borrow? are questions often 
asked. Simply make a thin batter with flour and water, 
and let it stand in a warm place till it ferments, and is full 
of bubbles. A pint of this ferment is equal to one cup of 
old yeast in starting the new. 

There are three kinds of yeast in general use, — the 
dry, the compressed, and the liquid, — each of which has 
its peculiar merits. 

Dry yeast cakes, such as the " National" or " Twin 
Brothers," are inexpensive, always ready to use, and gen- 
erally liked by those who care more for economy of time 
and trouble than for the quality of their bread. 

Compressed yeast cakes, like the " Vienna" or " Fleisch- 
mann's," are excellent, when perfectly fresh ; the best form 
of yeast where bread is made in large quantities. But for 
a small family, where only a quarter of a cake is used per- 

4 



50 The Boston Cook Book. 

haps twice a week, or for those living at a distance from 
the stores, they are inconvenient, expensive, and waste- 
ful. They have almost entirely taken the place of baker's 
yeast. 

As to which is best of the many varieties of home-made 
yeast, who shall decide when housekeepers disagree? 
Every good cook thinks her way the best. They are all good 
that make good bread ; the only special advantage of one 
over another being the greater ease in making or the 
length of time it will keep good. People who are inclined 
to shirk think it a deal of trouble to make yeast of any 
kind ; but there are none so independent as those who make 
their own yeast. 

The simplest form of liquid yeast is made with flour, salt, 
and boiling hop water. To this many add potatoes and a 
little sugar, and some add ginger. Chemists say that the 
potato is the best form of starch for the growth of yeast. 
Potato yeast rises more rapidly, and keeps longer without 
souring, than flour yeast; bread made from it is sweet, 
light, and does not dry quickly. As to the comparative 
merits of grated raw potato or boiled potato, those who 
have used them both ways with equally good results think 
the grated potato has the advantage of being made in much 
less time. 

The really essential points are that the water shall be 
boiling, so that all the cells of the flour or potato may be 
ruptured. The salt and sugar assist in the fermentation, 
and the hops and ginger serve to prevent the yeast from 
souring by checking the fermentation before all the sugar 
is converted into alcohol ; they also give it an agreeably 
pungent taste, if not used in too large quantities. Old 
potatoes are better than new for yeast, because they con- 
tain more sugar. Porcelain or granite kettles for boiling 
the hops and potatoes, and earthen bowls and wooden 
spoons for mixing, are best, as iron and tin cause the yeast 
to turn dark-colored. 

The yeast for starting must be fresh and lively, and 
never added till the boiling mixture has become lukewarm, 



The Boston Cook Booh 51 

or the plant will be killed. It must be kept warm, and 
stirred several times while rising, and the next day pat 
away in well-scalded glass jars. Keep it in a cool place ; 
freezing or intense heat will kill the yeast plant. Reserve 
a portion for the next rising in a small jar by itself, as 
opening the jar often causes the yeast to lose its strength. 
Always shake or stir well before using. Yeast is good 
when it is foamy or full of beads, has a brisk, pungent 
odor, and a good deal of snap or vim ; it is poor when it 
has an acid odor, and looks watery or has a thin film 
over the top. 

Making the Dough. 

Flour is moistened, or made into dough, with water or 
with milk. This softens the gluten and starch, dissolves 
the sugar, and cements all the particles together. Those 
who prefer water claim that water bread is cheaper, has 
more of the natural sweet taste of the wheat, and will 
keep longer ; while those in favor of using milk are equally 
sure that milk bread is more nutritious, more tender, more 
agreeable to the taste and the eye, more easily made, and 
with proper care will keep sweet and moist longer. 

Proportion. — The proportion of liquid and flour varies 
both with the flour and the liquid. Bread made of St. 
Louis flour, or mixed with water, takes more flour to make 
the same amount, than when made of Haxall flour, or 
mixed with milk. The general rule is one scant measure of 
liquid, including the yeast, to three full measures of flour. 
Water bread will need about one cupful more ; and milk 
bread, or whole-wheat bread, from one half to one cupful 
less of flour. Dough which is to be kneaded, or rolled 
and cut into special shapes, should be stiffer than that 
which is not kneaded, or is to be made into loaves ; but in 
all cases it should be mixed just as soft as can be handled 
easily without sticking, aud just as little extra flour as 
possible should be used. If the dough be too stiff, make 
several deep incisions, and work in a little more liquid. 
The proportion of yeast is half a cwpfvl of fresh home- 



52 The Boston Cook Booh 



made yeast to a pint of liquid: a little less in warm weather ; 
Or when mixed at night, when the dough has a longer 
time to rise; or when made with a "sponge," or with 
whole-wheat flour, as the extra amount of gluten in 
this flour causes it to ferment more rapidly. A larger 
amount of yeast can be used when it is necessary to make 
bread. in a limited time ; but great care must be taken not 
to use enough to leave an unpleasant yeasty taste in the 
bread. With compressed yeast, dissolve one fourth of a 
cake in half a cupful of lukewarm water, and use as home- 
made yeast. It will dissolve in one tablespoonfui of water ; 
but it is important to have the half-cupful, that the propor- 
tion of liquid may be the same. 

Manner of Mixing. — Many people prefer to measure the 
flour, and add enough of the liquid to make it the desired 
consistency. The better way is to measure the liquid, and 
add flour, using more or less according to the quality of 
the flour, as the measure of the liquid determines the size 
of the loaf. All the flour may be added at first, and the 
dough raised in a mass ; or a drop batter may be made with 
about half the flour, and when this has well risen, the re- 
mainder of the flour may be added, and the whole allowed 
to rise again. The latter method is preferable when it is 
inconvenient to knead at the first mixing, as is often the 
case in the evening, or when there is any doubt about the 
quality of the yeast, as, if the yeast will not raise three 
cups of flour, it certainly will not raise six. This method 
is advisable, also, when it is necessary to hasten the pro- 
cess of bread-making. Dough made by "setting a 
sponge," as this way is called, requires less yeast, the fer- 
mentation being more rapid in a batter than in a stiff 
dough ; and this fermented batter acts like a double portion 
of yeast on the fresh flour, raising it very quickly. It is 
the best way of making bi*ead with milk in the summer, as 
it may be mixed early in the morning and baked by noon ; 
and as it may be easily watched, it need not become sour. 
The question of mixing at night or in the morning is 
one which every housekeeper can best answer for herself. 



The Boston Cook Booh 53 

Many old receipts read, " Make a hole in the flour, 
add the yeast, and then pour in the liquid." If the 
yeast be added to the milk or water, and well mixed with 
it, and the flour then stirred thoroughly into this liquid 
mixture, the yeast will be more evenly distributed through 
the dough, and less kneading will be required than when 
made by the old method. 

The other ingredients added to the dough are salt and 
sugar, in the proportion of one even teaspoonful of salt and 
one even tablespoonful of sugar to three pints of flour, using a 
little less salt if butter is added, and a little more with 
compressed yeast, as that is not as salt as home-made 
yeast, and doubling the amount of sugar when using whole- 
wheat flour. 

Sugar in Bread. — Many object to the use of sugar 
in bread. Flour in its natural state contains sugar ; this 
sugar is changed in fermentation. Just enough sugar to 
restore the natural sweetness, but not enough to give a 
really sweet taste, is necessary in fermented bread. 

Potatoes. — Potatoes are sometimes added to bread 
dough. Where the flour is of an inferior quality, the 
bread is very much improved by their use ; but with good 
flour they are unnecessarj 7 , and the use of them increases 
the labor of making bread. 

Shortening. — Whether bread shall be " shortened or not 
shortened," is another question on which there is great 
diversity of opinion. Those who disapprove of fat of any 
kind in bread claim that we eat fat enough in other forms 
of food, and also that the same crisp tenderness of tex- 
ture may be produced bj r skilful kneading. Bread made 
with new or unskimmed milk, and kneaded well, requires 
no other shortening ; but water bread, when shortened, is 
made more tender, and therefore is more easily pene- 
trated by the digestive fluids. The latest decision of the 
best ph3'sicians is that fat is absolutely necessary as an 
element of food, and it is often given as a remedj' for 
some diseases. The proportion which one person would 
receive from one tablespoonful of butter, or drippings, or 



54 The Boston Cook Book. 

lard, in two loaves of bread would not harm the most deli- 
cate stomach. Butter tastes best; drippings are cheap- 
est. Lard has for its chief merit that of making whiter 
bread than either of the others. The shortening may be 
rubbed into the flour, or, better still, melted in the warm 
liquid. Too much shortening clogs the glutinous cell- 
walls, and therefore checks the rising. Rolls, rusks, and 
buns, which are usually shortened more than loaf bread, 
should have the butter added at the last kneading. 

The bread should be mixed in a deep stone-china or 
granite bowl ; wooden bowls are difficult to keep sweet and 
clean. Brown earthenware is awkward in shape and 
clumsy to handle, while tinware, being a better conductor 
than china, lets the heat within the mass escape, and the 
tin rubs off from the constant friction. Use a wooden 
spoon, or a wooden-handled iron spoon, or a broad-bladed 
knife. 

Kneading the Dough. — Kneading is the process of press- 
ing or working the dough in such a manner that the flour 
and water may be thoroughly mixed, and the yeast be so 
evenly distributed that the fermentation may be equal 
through the whole mass. It may be done by cutting or 
chopping, either with the hand or machinery ; but there is 
nothing that gives the fine, even grain to bread so well as 
hand-kneading ; and no surer test of the proper consist- 
ency of dough than that given by the sense of touch. 
There are some kinds of milk bread and rolls which are 
very good without it ; but water bread should always be 
kneaded. It is often done in the mixing-bowl, by draw- 
ing the dough over from the side and pressing it down 
in the centre, turning the bowl with the other hand ; but 
it is more effectually accomplished on a bread-board. In 
Spain the bakers knead the bread with such force that 
the palms of the hands and the second joints of the fingers 
are covered with corns ; but strength and force are not so 
essential to good kneading as a peculiar and dexterous 
handling of the dough. The most approved process is the 
following : — 



The Boston Cook Bodh 55 



Sprinkle the board with flour* and leave a little in the 
corner to lay your hands upon. Scrape the ddugti from 
the bowl, and toss it over with the knife that it may 
be well floured. Flour the hands ; then, with the finger- 
tips, draw the dough farthest from you up and over to- 
ward the centre, letting the ball of the hand meet the 
dough, and then press down firmly, giving the dough some- 
what of a rolling motion, that it maj r not stick to the 
board. Repeat this motion until the dough is in a long 
narrow shape, then turn it at right angles, and draw up, 
fold, and press down again; and continue this process 
until the dough is smooth, elastic, fine, and even-grained. 
Dust the board and the palms of the hands with flour often, 
but only slightly. Should the dough stick, lift it quickly, 
and always scrape off what has adhered to the board before 
dusting again, that the board may be kept smooth. But 
do not let it stick ; keep it in constant motion. Do not 
knead hard enough to break into the dough, nor let the 
finger-tips pierce the smooth crust that soon forms under 
proper kneading. Use the fingers merely in drawing the 
dough over, and keep them up and out of it when press- 
ing with the ball of the hand. Use both hands in the 
same manner, or draw up and press with the right, and 
turn the ball of dough with the left, that all parts may 
receive an equal pressure. When enough of this smooth, 
soft texture has been formed all through the dough, it can 
be worked for some time without even a dusting of flour. 
After a little experience, if care be taken in the beginning, 
and only a little flour added at each dusting, when the 
dough is sufficiently kneaded, the hands, the apron, and 
the board will be clean, and the dough of an even, elastic 
consistency, springing up instantly as you toss or pound 
or punch iato it. The habit of mixing with the hands, 
and rubbing off little wads of dough from the fingers into 
the whole mass, should be avoided, especially toward the 
last of the process. There is no mechanical operation in 
cooking more fascinating than the deft, quick touches a 
natural kneader gives to a mass of dough. Young ladies 



56 The Boston Cook Booh 

with pretty hands can display them there quite as well as 
with embroidery, etc. ; but the rings and bracelets should 
be left in the jewel-case. The stitches in tight dress 
sleeves are not " warranted not to break " during this pro- 
cess. Perfect freedom for the muscles of the arms and 
chest is absolutely essential to the making and kneading 
of bread. 

Temperature and Time for the Raising of Bread, — In 
winter the water or milk used in mixing should be luke- 
warm ; and if the flour be kept in a veiy cold place, warm 
it before using. In summer the water need not be 
warmed, neither should it be ice- water ; the milk should 
be scalded (not boiled) , and cooled. After the bread is 
kneaded sufficiently it must be made into a smooth round 
ball, with no dry flour left on the surface, and put back in 
the mixing-bowl to rise. If you have learned the knack 
of scraping a bowl thorough^, it need not be washed ; 
otherwise it is well to wash and grease the bowl, that the 
dough may come out more easily after it has risen. Notice 
how it fills the bowl, and let it rise until it has a little 
more than doubled in size. Cover it, not with a cloth 
alone, as that serves merely to keep out the dust, but with 
several thicknesses of cloth, and a tightly fitting tin cover. 
It is important that the air be excluded, as it causes a 
hard crust to form, which will be difficult to mix thoroughly 
in the dough at the next kneading, and will also leave dark 
spots or streaks in the bread. 

The dough should rise in a temperature of about 75°. 
Avoid a draught of cold air, or sudden alternations of ex- 
treme heat and cold. If it be placed on a mantel or near 
a stove, it must be turned frequently. When necessary to 
hasten the rising, place the bowl in a pan of warm (not 
hot) water, and keep the water at the same temperature 
until it begins to rise. After fermentation has been well 
established the temperature can be lowered without harm, 
provided it does not fall below 45°. In winter, bread 
should be mixed early in the evening ; and if the kitchen 
become very cold before morning, keep the dough in a 



The Boston Cook Book. 57 

warmer room ; it will be risen bv six or seven in the morn- 
ing. In summer, mix it later at night, leave it in a cool 
place, and the next morning attend to it early ; if possible, 
by five o'clock. In very hot weather mix early in the 
morning, and bake by noon. It should never be allowed 
to rise to the point of " caving in," or settling, or running 
over the bowl. Even if it does not become sour, it loses 
the natural sweet flavor of the wheat, and is tasteless and 
insipid. It should rise in a light, puffy, well-rounded 
mass ; and if it half filled the bowl at first, it will be read} 7 , 
when risen nearly to the top of the bowl, " to cut down," 
as most cooks express it. This is done by cutting it away 
from the sides of the bowl, and working it over into the 
centre with the knife. This releases some of the gas, 
checks the fermentation, and reduces the bulk somewhat. 
It will rise again very quickly, and the cutting-down pro- 
cess can be repeated several times, and the bread will be 
the better for it, provided the rising does not go too far at 
any time. It takes but a moment, and should always be 
done when the dough is risen sufficiently, if }*ou are not 
ready to shape it at once into loaves. If j'ou do not wish 
to bake the bread for several hours, it can be kneaded 
again and put in the ice-chest or cellar. When the dough 
rises too long, and has soured, it will have a strong, tin- 
gling acid odor as you cut into it, and it will pull away 
from the bowl in long threads, having a watery appear- 
ance, quite unlike the proper spongy consistency and pun- 
gent alcoholic odor when it is just right. The practice of 
using soda to sweeten it, when in this state*, cannot be too 
severely condemned. Chemists say that light sour bread 
is not urihealthful, although unpalatable to most Americans. 
Bread in that condition is eaten largely by the Germans. 
Sour bread sweetened by soda is unhealthful, as it is very 
rarely that the alkali is wholly neutralized by the acetic 
acid. Those who boast of never having sour bread be- 
cause they always keep a bottle of soda dissolved and 
ready for instant use, should, instead, blush at the fact of 
such careless housewifery. With proper care, bread, even 



58 The Boston Cook Book. 

when made with milk, need never soar. Bat should the 
accident ever occur, it is better to eat the bread, or dry it 
for crumbs, or throw it away even, than to use the soda. 
This practice is so abominable that here it will receive 
neither aid nor encouragement. 

Shaping into Loaves or Biscuit. — At least an hour be- 
fore the time for baking, scrape the dough from the bowl, 
and turn it out upon the board, which should be dusted 
with flour ; knead it slightly, and divide into the proper 
proportion for loaves. 

The measures given in the following receipts fill two 
brickloaf pans, which are eight inches long by four inches 
broad and five inches deep, with nearly straight sides. 
This shape gives small uniform slices. Small round pans 
were formerly considered best for baking both bread and 
cake ; and there is some truth in the reason given, namely, 
that the cells which are formed by the gas are circular in 
form, and are much more uniform in a round than in an 
oblong loaf, in which the corner cells are easily flat- 
tened or compressed, forming heavy streaks around the 
edges. But many people dislike the shape of the slices in 
a round loaf, and oblong pans have been more generally 
adopted. They should be greased with lard or drippings. 
It is better to divide the dough into four equal parts and 
put two in each pan, for several reasons : a small round 
loaf is more easily shaped, and can be broken, if wanted, 
while fresh, better than a long loaf; two small loaves 
rise and fill the pan more evenly than one long loaf; and 
unless great c£re be taken in shaping to have the one 
loaf of uniform thickness, it will rise more in the middle 
and give uneven slices. Many make a deep cut through 
the middle to prevent this; but that spoils the smooth 
round effect which adds so much to the looks of the 
crust. 

Use the merest dusting of flour in shaping, and knead 
just enough to work out the large bubbles of gas by fold- 
ing the mass over into the middle, then letting it spring 
open. Pat, coax, and work it with the hand and fingers 



The Boston Cook Book. 59 

until there are no wrinkles, and the loaves are smooth. 
Greasing the hands slightly with butter helps. All the 
flour added at this kneading rises but once, and too much 
will make the loaf burst out unevenly at the sides. Some 
careless kneaders merely fold it over, and if it look 
smooth on the top they think that enough ; but their loaf 
will sometimes have a seam or crack through it, which will 
cause the slices to fall apart easily. 

The loaves should come nearly half-way up the pan ; and 
the same rule follows as for the first rising, namely, let it 
come to the top, or till the bulk is doubled. Cover with 
cloth and tin cover, or a large tin pan. The time for rising 
varies with the lightness of the dough and the temperature 
of the room. It is impossible to give a definite rule ; but 
should it rise too far and stick to the cloth, or look " tum- 
bled in," cut it down, knead, and let it rise again. Never 
bake it in the above state, as it will be coarse-grained, if 
not hollow. It is better to bake it a little too soon than 
to let it rise too long. 

Rolls and small biscuit should rise in the pans longer 
and be baked in a hotter oven than the loaf, because the 
loaf rises in the oven until the heat has penetrated to the 
centre ; while in the rolls the air cells are very quickly fixed 
by the intense heat needed to perfect the crust, and fer- 
mentation is almost immediately checked. This is con- 
trary to the usual practice ; but it is the correct way. 
Many people prepare biscuit for breakfast by letting them 
rise ten or fifteen minutes in a very hot place while the 
oven is heating. They are often onty half baked, and then 
eaten smoking hot; and those who have never had any- 
thing else think them just right. The evil effects of this 
practice have been the occasion for much of the outcry 
against hot, or even fresh, biscuit. Such are entirely dif- 
ferent from the dry, light, delicious biscuit which have had 
a natural, not a forced, rising, are of the proper texture, 
have been baked quickly, and allowed to stand at least 
half an hour before being eaten. The moral of the above 
is, never try to have raised biscuit for breakfast without 



60 The Boston Cook Book. 

rising at least three hours before breakfast-time, unless 
you wish your family to become slaves to indigestion. 

The Temperature for Baking. — The object of baking 
bread is to kill the ferment, rupture the starch grains, 
fix the air ceils, and form a nicely flavored crust. Bread 
could be baked by steam, as the air cells become fixed 
at 212°, and the temperature of the inside of the loaf, 
owing to the moisture, never rises above that point ; but, 
to give the delicious flavor of the browned crust, a much 
higher temperature is needed/ The oven should be hot 
enough to brown a teaspoonful of flour in one minute 
for rolls, and in Jive minutes for loaves. This is a good 
rule for those who do not use a thermometer, or cannot 
judge of the heat by their hands. The heat should be 
greater at the bottom than at the top of the oven, and of 
sufficient strength to last through the time of baking (which 
is about an hour) without replenishing the fire. Divide 
the time into thirds; the first fifteen or twenty minutes 
the heat should increase, remain steady during the next, 
and decrease toward the last. The dough should rise, and, 
after fifteen minutes, begin to brown slightly. If the oven 
be too hot, and the loaf brown too fast, a hard crust will 
be formed before the heat reaches the centre, and, pressing 
down on the air cells, make a heavy streak ; or, if removed 
from the oven too soon, it will be raw and doughy inside. 
If the heat be not sufficient to form the crust in fifteen 
minutes, the dough will go on rising until it becomes sour 
and pasty, and the air cells will run together, making a 
hole in the middle. The baking of bread is something that 
will not take care of itself. The old notion that you must 
not look at anything in the oven is erroneous ; and until 
you have learned by experience just how to regulate the 
fire and oven, pnd the many tests by which every good 
cook determines when bread is done, look at it often, 
and bake according to the clock from fifty to sixty min- 
utes. Better bake ten minutes too long, putting a paper 
over the top to prevent a burned crust, than not long 
unough. Bake it brown , not black, nor pale whity-brown, 



The Boston Cook Booh 61 

but brown all over. Rolls are often brushed with milk just 
before and after baking, to give them a richer brown color. 
Rubbing over with soft butter while still hot makes a crisp, 
delicious crust. When well baked, if tapped with the fin- 
gers, a hollow, empty sound will be emitted ; the crust 
feels firm, and, if broken apart, the inside rebounds in- 
stantly on any slight pressure. 

The Care of Bread after Baking, — Remove the loaves 
immediately from the pans, and place them where the air 
can circulate freely round them and thus carry off the gas 
which has been formed, but is no longer needed. A bread 
or cake cooler, made of fine wire, set in a narrow frame 
thirty inches long b}' twelve or fifteen broad, is a very use- 
ful article, as it will hold several loaves. An old wire 
window-screen, too small for modern windows, with cleats 
on the ends, to keep it two or three inches from the table, 
answers the purpose admirably. Many use a wire sieve ; 
but that is small, and leaves the marks of the larger cross 
wires on the loaf. Never leave the bread in the pan, or on 
a pine table, to sweat and absorb the odor of the wood. 

If you like crusts that are crisp, do not cover the loaves ; 
but to give the soft, tender, wafer-like consistency which 
many prefer, wrap them, while still hot, in several thick- 
nesses of bread cloth. When cold, put them into a stone 
jar or tin box ; remove the cloth, as that absorbs the mois- 
ture, and gives the bread an unpleasant taste and odor. 
Keep the jar well covered and carefully cleansed from 
crumbs and stale pieces. Scald and dry it thoroughly 
every two or three days. A yard and a half square of 
coarse table linen makes the best bread cloth. Keep a 
good supply ; keep them sweet and clean, and use them 
for no other purpose. 

Fine white bread should be partaken of in moderation. 
Although the " staff of life," it is not necessary to eat 
bread with every kind of diet. It is most useful when 
taken with articles containing a large proportion of nour- 
ishment in a small bulk, as it then gives the stomach the 
proper degree of expansion. 



62 The Boston Cbok Book. 



Raw Potato Yeast. 



J£ cup flour. 

J£ cup sugar. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 



3 raw potatoes. 

1 to 2 quarts boiling water. 

1 cup yeast. 



First, see that you have at least three quarts of water 
boiling rapidly. Pare the potatoes, and keep them cov- 
ered with cold water. Mix the flour, sugar, and salt in a 
large bowl, and grate the potatoes as quickly as possible, 
not stopping to grate every scrap ; mix them at once with 
the flour, using a wooden or silver spoon, that the mixture 
may not be dark-colored. Pour the boiling water directly 
from the teakettle over the grater, and rinse off the potato 
into the bowl, using perhaps a pint of water at first. Mix 
the water thoroughly with the potato and flour ; then add, 
slowly, enough more boiling water to make it the consist- 
ency of thin starch. The amount of water will depend 
upon the quality of the flour and potatoes. If it does not 
thicken, pour the mixture into a double boiler or granite 
pan, and let it come to the boiling-point, stirring well to 
keep it from sticking. Strain through a squash strainer and 
let it cool. When lukewarm (clear through the mixture, 
not merely on the top) , add the yeast. Cover slightly, and 
keep in a warm (not hot) place, until light and covered 
with white foam. After it begins to rise, beat it well sev- 
eral times, as this makes it stronger. At night, or when 
well risen, put it into wide-mouthed earthen or glass jars. 
The next morning cover tightly, and keep it in a cool 
place. Reserve one cupful or more in a small glass jar, 
and do not open it until ready for the next yeast-making. 
Always shake yeast well before using ; take your cup to 
the jar instead of taking the jar to the hot kitchen ; when 
empty, scald the jar and the cover thoroughly. This is 
the quickest and easiest way of making yeast, fifteen min- 
utes being ample time for the first part of the process. It 
is whiter and looks more inviting than that made with hops. 
It keeps well two weeks, and makes delicious bread. 

This receipt can be varied by using boiling hop-water. 



The Boston Cook Book. 63 

Steep one fourth cup of loose hops five minutes in three pints 
of water, in a granite or porcelain kettle, and strain it into 
the potato and flour. Or the flour may be omitted, using 
more potato or less water. Many think it an improvement 
to mix one even teaspoonful of sifted ginger with the flour, 
sugar, and salt The hops and ginger will make the yeast 
dark-colored, but it will not be perceptible in the bread. 

Boiled Potato Yeast. (Mrs. Toume's Matilda.) 

Three large, old potatoes, pared, soaked, and boiled until 
broken in small pieces ; half a cup of loose hops boiled in 
one quart of water. Drain and mash the potatoes ; add the 
hop water and enough more hot water to make two quarts. 
Strain, rubbing all the potato through, and put it on to 
boil. When boiling, add three fourths of a cup of flour, 
which has been wet to a smooth paste in cold water, and 
three quarters of a cup of sugar. Boil five minutes, stirring 
well ; let it cool ; add three fourths of a cup of yeast ; and, 
when well risen, add one fourth of a cup of salt. Keep in a 
covered stone jar in a cool cellar. Bread made with this 
yeast will not sour even in the hottest weather. 

Hop Yeast. 

Steep half a cup of loose hops in one quart of boiling 
water, in a granite kettle, five minutes. Mix one cup of 
flour, one fourth of a cup of sugar, and one tablespoonful of 
salt. Strain the hop liquor, and pour it boiling into the flour 
mixture. Boil one minute, or till thick. When cooled, 
add one cup of yeast. 

Water Bread. 



2 quarts sifted (new-process) flour. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 
1 tablespoonful butter, or drip- 
pings, or lard. 

Sift the flour, and fill the measure lightly, not heaping, 
nor shaken down. Turn it into a large bowl holding about 



% cup liquid yeast, or, 
)£ cake compressed yeast, dis- 
solved in % cup water. 
1 pint lukewarm water. 



64 The Boston Cook Booh. 

four quarts. ' Reserve one cup of flour to add at the last if 
needed, and to use on the board. Mix the salt and sugar 
with the flour ; rub in the shortening until fine, like meal. 
Mix the yeast with the water. If compressed yeast be 
used, dissolve one fourth of a cake in half a cup of water. 
This is in addition to the pint of water to be used in mix- 
ing. Pour the liquid mixture into the centre of the flour, 
mixing it well with a broad knife or a strong spoon. Scrape 
the dry flour from the sides and bottom of the bowl, bring- 
ing the knife up through the dough, and turning the mass 
over and over until no dry flour is left. If it be too soft 
to be handled easily, add a little of the reserved cup of 
flour. If too stiff, add more water. Knead it half an 
hour, or till smooth and fine-grained. Cover, and let it 
rise until it doubles its bulk. Cut it down ; let it rise again ; 
divide into four parts, then shape into loaves, putting two 
in each pan, or reserve some for biscuit. Cover and let it 
rise again to the top of the pan. Bake in a hot oven nearly 
an hour. 

Milk Bread, No. 1. 



1 teaspoonf ul salt. 
% cup yeast. 
6 or 7 cups flour. 



1 pint milk, scalded and cooled. 
1 tablespoonful butter, melted in 

the hot milk. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 

Measure the milk after scalding, and put it in the mixing- 
bowl ; add the butter, sugar, and salt. When cool, add the 
yeast, and then stir in the flour, adding it gradually after 
five cups are in, that it may not be too stiff; use just 
enough to knead it. Knead till smooth and elastic. Cover ; 
let it rise till light ; cut it down ; divide into fQiir parts ; 
shape into loaves or biscuit. Let it rise again in the pans. 
Bake forty or fifty minutes. 

Milk Bread, No. 2 (not kneaded). 

The same proportions as in the preceding rule, except 
that about one cup less of flour is used, and the dough is 
not kneaded. Mix it with a knife, cutting it through and 



The Boston Cook Book. 65 

turning and working it over until all the dry flour is well 
mixed witk the other materials. Mix it just soft enough 
to be shaped into a loaf after it has risen. Scrape the 
dough from the sides of the bowl ; smooth the top with 
a knife ; cover and let it rise. Shape it into loaves, and 
when well risen bake about forty minutes. 

Water Bread (with a Sponge). 



1 tablespoonf ul butter. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 



1 pint water. 

% cup yeast, scant 

About 2 quarts flour. 



Put the butter, sugar, and salt in the mixing-bowl ; add 
one fourth cup of boiling water to dissolve them ; then add 
enough more lukewarm water to make a pint in all, half 
a cup of yeast, and three and a half or four cups of flour, 
enough to make a batter that will drop, not pour, from 
the spoon. Give it a vigorous beating ; cover and let it 
rise over night. This soft mixture is called a sponge. In 
the morning add flour to make it stiff enough to knead. 
Knead it half an hour. Cover; let it rise in the bowl 
until noon, or till light and spongy; then shape it into 
loaves or rolls ; let it rise again in the pans ; bake as 
usual. This sponge can be divided in the morning, add- 
ing to one part of it white flour enough to knead it, and 
to the other part whole-wheat or rye flour and another 
tablespoonful of sugar. Make it just stiff enough to shape 
easily into a loaf after it is risen. Use white flour to 
shape it on the board, as the rye and whole-wheat floui 
are sticky. Or make the dough a little softer, fill gem 
pans. two thirds full, let them rise to the top, bake in a hot 
oven, and you Have " raised rye or whole-wheat gems." 

Milk Bread, No. 3 (with Sponge). 

Pour one pint of scalded milk on one tablespoonful each 
of butter and sugar, and one teaspoonful of salt ; when luke- 
warm, add half a cup of yeast if mixed in the morning or 
one fourth of a cup if mixed at night. Stir in three cups of 

5 



66 The Boston Cook Book. 

flour, and beat well. Let it rise over night, or, if mixed in 
the morning, about three hours. Then add from two to 
three cups of flour, or enough to knead it, and knead half 
an hour. Let it rise in the bowl, and again after being 
shaped into loaves or rolls, and bake as usual. 

Whole-wheat or rye bread or gems can be made from this 
sponge the same as in the preceding rule. 

Whole- Wheat or Graham Bread. 



1 pint milk, scalded and cooled. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
1 teaspoonf ul salt. 

3^ cup yeast. 



5 or 6 cups fine granulated wheat 

flour, or 
2 cups white flour, and 
8 or Z% cups sifted Graham flour. 



In the morning mix, in the order given, into a dough, a 
little softer than for white bread ; let it rise till light, stir 
it down, pour it into well-greased pans, or, if stiff enough, 
shape it into loaves ; let it rise again, and bake a little 
longer and in a less hot oven than white bread. Graham 
or whole-wheat flour rises more rapidly than white flour, 
as it contains more gluten. It is liable to become sour 
if mixed over night, a/id then the cooks resort to the soda. 
For the true remedy use less yeast, and use sugar instead 
of molasses, or mix in the morning. Always sift the flour, 
notwithstanding all cook-books say to the contrary. Use 
a coarse sieve or squash strainer. Sift once, and, if you 
observe the character of the refuse, you will be glad 
to do so always. Bake part of this as biscuit or rolls. 
When made with ordinary Graham flour, the bread is 
much lighter if at least one third white flour be used. 

Squash Bread. 



1 tablespoonful butter. 

% cup yeast. 

Flour enough to knead it. 



1 cup squash, stewed and sifted. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
\% cups scalded milk. 
1 teaspoonf ul salt 

Mix the sugar and salt with the squash, add the butter 
melted in the hot milk, and when cool add the yeast and 



\ 



The Boston Cook Book. 67 

flour. Knead fifteen minutes. Let it rise till light. Knead 
and shape into loaves or biscuit. When well risen, bake 



Bye Bread. 

Make by rule given for Milk Bread, No. 3, adding rye 
dour or rye meal to the white-flour sponge. 



Raised Brown Bread. {Mrs. H. B. May.) 



1 pint yellow corn meal. 
% cup yeast. 
% cup molasses. 



% teaspoonf ul salt. 
1 saltspoonf ul soda. 
1 pint rye meal. 



Put the corn meal in the mixing-bowl, and scald it with 
boiling water, just enough to wet it ; let it stand ten min- 
utes, then add cold water enough to make a soft batter. 
When lukewarm, add the yeast, molasses, soda, salt, and 
rye meal. Beat it well, and let it rise over night, or until it 
cracks open. Stir it down ; put it in a buttered and floured 
tin to rise again ; sprinkle flour over the top. Bake in a 
moderate oven two hours. Brown bread made by this rule 
was first tested by the writer thirty years ago, when it was 
a wonder and delight to watch it as it was put on a wooden 
shovel and placed m the great brick oven. It has been 
made in the same house regularly every week since then, 
and proves just as good now as it was in the olden time. 

Thirded Bread. 



1 cup white flour (St. Louis). 

1 cup rye flour, or sifted rye meal. 

1 cup yellow corn meal. 



1 teaspoonf ul salt. 

3 tablespoonf uls sugar. 

% cup yeast. 



Mix with milk (scalded and cooled) till thick enough to 
be shaped. Let It rise until it cracks open. Put into a 
brickloaf pan, anjl when well risen bake it one hour* 



68 The Boston Cook Book. 



Sour Milk Brown Bread, No. 1. {Mrs. Wm. B. Johnson.') 



1 pint corn meal. 
1 pint Graham flour. 
1 teaspoonf ul soda. 



1 teaspoonf ul salt. 
1 pint sour milk. 
1 cup molasses. 



Mix the meal with flour. Mash the soda and salt before 
measuring; sift and mix thoroughly with the flour; add 
the sour milk and molasses, and beat well. If not moist 
enough to pour, add a little warm water. Pour it into a 
well-greased mould or pail, filling it only two thirds full. 
Cover it with a tight cover, also greased. Steam three 
hours in a steamer, or set the pail in a kettle of boiling 
water. Keep the water boiling ; and as it boils away, re- 
plenish with boiling water to keep it at the same level. 
Remove the cover, and place the mould in the oven fifteen 
minutes to dry the crust. 

Sour Milk Brown Bread, No. 2. 



1 cup wliiie corn meaL 
1 cup rye flour. 
1 cup Graham flour. 
1 teaspoonf ul salt. 



1 full teaspoonf ul soda. 
y z cup molasses. 
1 pint sour milk. 



Mix in the order given, sifting the soda, and adding 
more milk or water if not thin enough to pour. Steam 
three hours. One cup of raisins stoned and halved may 
be added to this, or any of the receipts for brown bread. 

Raised Biscuit and Rolls. 

The name "biscuit" is from the French, and means 
" twice baked." It was originally applied to a kind of hard, 
thin bread, made in that manner to deprive it of all 'moist- 
ure and insure its remaining in good condition for a long 
time. It was something like our crackers and ship bread. 
But in America it means an}' kind of bread made into 
small, round cakes and intended to be eaten hot or fresh. 
Raised biscuit may be made from any of the doughs made 



The Boston Cook Book. 6g 

by the receipts for bread ; the proportions are enough for 
one pan of bread, and one pan of biscuit containing twelve, 
or sixteen according to the size. They should always be 
made small, and shaped with the fingers, not cut with a 
cutter. Divide the portion of dough reserved for biscuit 
into halves, then into quarters, and each quarter into 
thirds or quarters. To shape a biscuit, take one of these 
quarters in the left hand and rest it lightly on the board. 
With the right thumb and forefinger draw a point of the 
dough up and over to the centre, and hold it down with the 
left thumb. Give the dough a slight turn toward the left, 
and repeat the drawing up and folding over until you have 
been all round the ball. You may roil them in the hands 
until all these foldings have disappeared and they are 
smooth and round, and call them simply biscuit; or you 
may make the folds as distinct as possible, and place them 
at once in the pan. The folds will spread apart in rising, 
and when baked they can be peeled off in layers. They 
are then honored with the name of Imperial Rolls. Put 
the biscuit in a shallow round pan, fitting them closely, 
that they may rise up, round and puffy, instead of spread- 
ing. When very light, bake in a very hot oven fifteen or 
twenty minutes. Keep them wrapped in a bread cloth for 
at least half an hour before serving. The receipts for 
Milk Bread are especially nice for biscuit. 

Bolls. 

Rolls are made by rolling the raised dough into small 
forms, with the hands or with a rolling-pin, and afterward 
cutting and folding into the desired shape ; the shape and 
manner of manipulation giving the distinctive names. The 
dough for rolls should be very light, and when wanted un- 
usually nice, more shortening should be worked into it after 
the second kneading. The rule for Water Bread made 
with a sponge is good for plain rolls ; Milk Bread made 
with a sponge is the same as Parker House Rolls, which 
have been generally adopted by housekeepers as the stand* 



jo The Boston Cook Book. 

ard. The following are some of the best varieties and 
shapes : — 

For Finger Bolls, make a dough by the rule for Milk 
Bread, No. 2, and when risen and ready to shape, divide 
the half reserved for rolls into twelve pieces. Make each 
piece into a smooth ball as if for biscuit, then roll it be- 
tween the palms, or with the palm of one hand on the 
board, into a long roll about the size of the second finger. 
Roll with buttered hands or with as little flour as possible. 
Place them close together in a long, shallow pan. Let 
them rise to the top of the pan, and bake in a very hot 
oven for ten or fifteen minutes. 

To make a Cleft Boll, make the dough into smooth balls, 
then with a floured knife-handle press through the centre 
but not quite through on the ends. Or make them round, 
and place them some distance apart on the pan, and when 
ready to bake, make a deep cut through the middle. Make 
another cut at right angles with the first and you have 
a Gross Boll. 

Parker House Bolls are made after the receipt for Milk 
Bread with sponge, and when well risen and ready to shape, 
roll the dough on the board as you would pastry, and, if 
wanted richer, spread a generous tablespoonful of soft- 
ened butter all over it. Fold the dough, and roll out agaiu 
until nearly half an inch thick. Lift the rolled dough from 
the board and let it shrink back all it will, and be sure it 
is of uniform thickness before cutting, or the rolls will lose 
their shape. Cut with a round or oval cutter ; press the 
thumb across the middle and fold over like a turnover, 
letting the edges come together. As they rise they will 
open a little, and, if folded only half-way over, the}' are 
liable to open too far. Spread a bit of soft butter the 
size of a pea on the edge before folding it, if you like 
the crust}' inside which that gives. Or roll the dough 
thinner, and put two rounds together with a thin spread- 
ing of butter between ; these are called Twin Bolls. 

To make Pocket-book or Letter Bolls, roll the dough in a 
rectangular shape one fourth of an inch thick, and cut it in 



The Boston Cook Book. 71 

6tripa four inches wide and as long as the dough will allow. 
Spread with soft butter; fold one end of the strip over 
about an inch and a half, and then over again. Cut off 
even with the folding, and then fold another, and so on. 
Or cut the dough into strips two inches wide by seven long, 
and spread each strip with butter, and fold one third over 
and then again like a letter. Or roll the dough out one 
fourth of an inch thick, then roll up and cut pieces one 
inch wide from the end of the roll, turn them over on the 
side, and place close together in a pan to rise. 

To make a Braid, cut the rolled dough in strips one 
inch wide by six inches long, and pinch three strips together 
at the end, then form into a braid. Or roll little balls of 
dough into long pieces the same as for sticks, and then 
braid them. 

To make Crescents, or Vienna Rolls, roll the dough 
until onh r an eighth of an inch thick ; cut into pieces five 
inches square and then into triangles. Hold the apex of 
the triangle in the right hand, roll the edge next' the left 
hand over and over towards the right, stretch the point 
and bring it over and under the roll ; bend the ends of the 
roll around like a horseshoe, being careful to keep in the 
folding. Anj r dough that is quite stiff may be shaped with 
the hands into small, oval rolls with quite tapering ends, 
and baked far enough apart to allow each roll to have a 
crust all over. These are called French Rolls. Any of 
these rolls may be rubbed with a cloth dipped in melted 
butter ; or, better still, twist a piece of butter in a clean 
cloth and rub it over them just as they are taken from the 
oven. 



Sticks. 



1 cup milk, scalded. 
J^ cup butter. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 
% teaspoonful salt. 



J^ cake compressed yeast, or 
3 tablespoonf uls liquid yeast. 
White of 1 egg. 
About 4 cups flour. 



Melt the butter, sugar, and salt in the hot milk; when 
lukewarm, add the yeast (if compressed, dissolve in three 



72 The Boston Cook Book. 

tablespoonfuls of warm milk or water), then the beaten 
white and floor. Knead until smooth and fine-grained. Let 
it rise over night or till light. Shape into small balls ; 
then roll into sticks a foot long. Let them rise slowly and 
bake in a moderate oven, that they may be dried through 
before browning. When shaped into large plain rolls, they 
are called White Mountain Rods. 

Rolls designed for breakfast or dinner are better not to 
be sweetened enough to taste sweet ; but for tea or lunch 
more sugar may be added. This brings us to another vari- 
ety of rolls which are made richer by the addition of but- 
ter, sugar, eggs, and fruit, including Swedish Rolls, Rusks, 
and Bunns. 

Swedish Rolls. 



1 pint milk, scalded. 

% cup butter. 

)^ cup sugar. 

1 scant teaspoonf ul salt. 



Whites of 2 eggs. 
% cup yeast. 
7 or 8 cups flour. 



Melt the butter, and dissolve the sugar and salt in the 
hot milk ; when lukewarm, add the yeast and beaten whites. 
Mix in flour to make a" sponge or drop batter. In the 
morning add the remainder of the flour, and knead twenty 
minutes. Let it rise till noon or till light; then knead 
again slightly, and roll out into a large, rectangular piece, 
half an inch thick. Have the edges as straight as possi- 
ble. Spread all over with a thin layer of soft butter, and 
a sprinkling of sugar, cinnamon, grated lemon rind, and 
currants. Roll up like a jelly roll, cut off slices an inch 
wide, lay them with the cut side down on well-greased 
pans, and when well risen bake in a hot oven fifteen or 
twenty minutes. When done, glaze them with sugar dis- 
solved in milk, and dry them a few minutes in the oven, or 
rub them with soft butter. If mixed in the morning, 
make a sponge with the scalded milk cooled, the eggs, 
salt, sugar, and part of the flour. Place the bowl in a 
pan of warm water for three or four hours ; then add the 
butter and the remainder of the flour. Knead, and after 
it is well risen roll out as above. 



The Boston Cook Booh 73 



Busk, No. 1. 



1 cup milk, scalded and cooled. 
1 tablespoonf ul sugar. 
% teaspoonf ul salt. 



)£ cup yeast. 
2 cups flour. 



Mix in a sponge at night or very early in the morning. 
When well risen, add floor enough to make a stiff" dough. 
Knead and let it rise again, then add one fourth of a cup 
of butter, rubbed to a cream, half a cup of sugar, and one 
egg, beaten with butter and sugar. Let it rise in the bowl 
till light. Shape into small round biscuit ; put them close 
together in a shallow cake, pan, that they may rise very 
high. JVhen ready to bake, rub the tops with sugar dis- 
solved in milk, sprinkle with dry sugar, and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

Rusk, No. 2. 

Make a dough at night by the rule for Milk Bread, No. 1. 
In the morning make half the dough into a loaf for bread. 
Put with the remainder half a cup of butter, creamed, with 
one cup of sugar and one egg, well beaten ; mix and beat 
well ; add half a cup of flour, or enough to shape it easily. 
Let it rise in the bowl, shape into small rounds or into 
long narrow rolls, and when very light, glaze them and 
bake as in the preceding rule. 

Busk, No. 3. (Miss Yandes.) 



1 pint milk, scalded. 

y 2 cup butter and lard, mixed. 

% cup sugar. 



1 cup potato yeast. 

3 eggs. 

Flour as required. 



Mix early in the morning, in the order given, adding 
flour enough to make a thin batter. Let it rise till full of 
bubbles, then add flour enough to knead it. When well 
risen, shape into rounds, or roll out and cut them. Let 
them rise in the pans till very light ; then bake in a hot 
oven about half an hour. 



4 



74 The Boston Cook Book. 

2>nW ifajfc are made after either of these receipts, and 
when risen are rolled thin, cut into rounds, and put two 
together into the pan. When baked, they are pulled apart 
and left in a very moderate oven to dry. Or they are cut 
in slices when cold, and dried until crisp and brown. 
They are delicious soaked in milk and eaten with butter, 
or used the same as bread in puddings, or soaked in a 
custard and sauted. 

Bunns. 
Make a sponge over night with 



1 cup milk, scalded. 
1 tablespoonful sugar and 1 egg 
beaten together. 



1 saltspoonf ul salt. 
}>£ cup yeast. 

2 cups flour. 



Beat it well and in the morning add flour to made a stiff 
dough. Knead fifteen minutes. Let it rise until light, 
then add one fourth of a cup of butter, softened, half a cup 
of currants, and one saltspoonful of cinnamon or nutmey. 
Let it rise in the bowl till light. Shape into small 
round cakes, put them close together, and when well 
jisen bake in a moderate oven. Glaze them with sugar 
and milk, or with white of egg beaten stiff with sugar. 
Make a deep cut like a cross just before the} r are put into 
the oven, and you have Hot Cross Bunns. Many prefer 
a bit of citron put into the middle of each bunn. These 
are better when freshly baked. It is therefore well to 
make only a small quantity. They may be made from 
risen milk-bread dough in the same manner as Rusk, No. 
2, by using the spices and the fruit and a smaller quantity 
of sugar. This receipt for bunns makes excellent raised 
doughnuts by omitting the currants and rolling half an 
inch thick and cutting with a doughnut cutter. 

Raised Bread Cake, or Loaf Cake. 

This is similar to rusks and bunns, only richer ; and as 
it improves by keeping, it is well to make a large quantity. 



The Boston Cook Book. 75 

At night mix one pint of milk, scalded and cooled, one 
teaspoonful of soli, half a cup of yeast*, five or six cups of 
flour ) enough to make a soft dough. In the morning pre- 
pare one cup of butter, creamed ; add two cups of brown 
sugar, one tablespoon/ul of mixed spices, — cinnamon, nut- 
meg, and allspice, — and four eggs, yolks and whites beaten 
separately. Add this mixture to the beaten dough, and 
beat well. Add two cups of stoned and chopped raisins, or 
one cup of raisins, one cup of currants and half a cup of 
sliced citron. Flour the fruit. Let it rise in the bowl till 
light. Stir it down, and pour into two deep cake tins, 
making them two thirds full. Let it stand in a warm 
place fifteen or twenty minutes, then bake one hour or 
longer in a moderate oven. 

Uses for Stale Bread. 

All bread crumbs left on the plates or bread board or in 
the bread jar, any broken pieces not suitable for toast., 
and any crusts or trimmings of toast should be carefully 
collected in a pan by themselves, and dried (not browned) 
in the hot closet or in a moderate oven, then pounded in 
a mortar or rolled on an old bread board, sifted through 
a coarse sieve, and put away in a dry place. These will 
be useful in covering anything which is to be dipped in egg 
and crumbs and then fried. Bread crumbs brown better 
than cracker crumbs, and are much cheaper, being made 
from material which is usually thrown away. These are 
dried bread crumbs, and are not to be used for bread pud- 
ding or scalloped dishes, as the}- will absorb a great deal 
of moisture. They will keep indefinitely in a dry place 
Stale bread crumbs, which are not dried in the oven, but are 
made from odds and ends of stale bread, crumbled finely 
or grated on a coarse grater, are better for meat or fish 
stuffing, bread puddings, bread sauce, bread griddle- cakes, 
scalloped fish, etc. They should be used at once, as thej r 
soon become musty. Any whole slices of stale bread may 
'be steamed or used for toast. 



j6 The Boston Cook Book. 

Stele Bread Steamed. 

Have a large covered steamer fitting tightly over a ket- 
tle of boiling water. One with holes all over the bottom 
is best, as the steam condenses and runs down the sides 
and through the holes ; while in those with holes only in 
the middle it forms little pools of water round the edge, 
which make the bread soggy. Do not put in the bread 
until everything else is ready, as it takes only a few min- 
utes for it to become heated through. Arrange it all in 
the middle of the steamer, tilted against a small cup or 
dish so that the steam may pass between the slices. Do 
not let any of it touch the sides of the steamer, or it will 
become water-soaked. When ready to remove it, lift the 
cover quickly, turning it over instantly, that no water may 
drip on the bread. Spread each slice with butter as you 
take it out, and arrange them on a hot platter. Cover 
with a napkin and serve immediately. Stale biscuit may 
be made much nicer than new in this way. These direc- 
tions may seem needlessly minute ; but it is just these 
little things that make the difference between light, deli- 
cate, hot steamed bread, and the heavy, water-soaked 
stuff that is often served. 

Egg Toast, or Bread Sauted. 



legg. 

1 saltspoonful salt. 



1 cup milk. 

4 to 6 slices stale bread. 



Beat the egg lightly with a fork in a shallow pudding- 
dish ; add salt and milk. Soak the bread in this until soft. 
Turn the slices by putting those underneath on the top, 
and dip the custard over them, being careful not to break 
them. Have a griddle hot and well buttered. Brown 
them on one side ; then put a piece of butter on the top of 
each slice, and turn and brown on the other side. To be 
eaten hot with butter, also with sugar and cinnamon if 
liked. This is one of the nicest ways* of Freshening stale 
bread, and is especially convenient when the fire is not in 



The Boston Cook Book. yj 

order for toasting. It is called French, Spanish, German, 
and Nun's Toast ; but Egg Toast seems to best indicate 
the character of the dish. When fried in deep fat, it may 
be used as a pudding by serving with a sweet sauce, and 
is then called Italian Fritters. 

Brown Bread Brftwis. 

Break one pint of dry brown bread and half a cup of stale 
white bread into inch pieces. Put a tablespoonful of butter 
in a large frying pan, and when it is melted, but not brown, 
add the bread and cover with one pint or more of milk. 
Let it simmer, stirring occasionally to keep it from stick- 
ing, until the bread is soft and the milk absorbed. Salt 
to taste. 

Brown Bread Brewis, No. 2. 

Mix the same proportion of bread with one fourth of a 
cup of butter in a double boiler ; add milk to cover, and cook 
over hot water without stirring until the bread has absorbed 
all the milk. If the bread be very dry, more milk will be 
needed. 

Toast. 

Bread is toasted, or dried and browned, before the fire 
to extract the moisture and make it more palatable and 
digestible. If the slices be cut thick and carelessly ex- 
posed to a blazing fire, the outside is blackened and 
made into charcoal before the heat can reach the inside ; 
the moisture is only heated, not evaporated, making the 
inside doughy or clammy, and when spread with butter, 
which cannot penetrate the charcoal, but floats on the sur- 
face in the form of oil, it forms one of the most indigestible 
compounds. The correct way is to have the bread stale, 
and cut into thin, uniform slices about one quarter of an 
inch thick. The fire should be clear, red (not blazing) 
coals. The crusts maj T be removed or not according to 
your taste, or the purpose for which the toast is intended. 
If you require only one or two slices, a toasting-fork will 



78 The Boston Cook Book. 

answer ; but if a larger quantity be needed, there is nothing 
better than a double broiler with wires about a third of an 
inch apart. Place the slices evenly on one side of the 
broiler, being careful not to put in more than can be 
equally exposed to the fire ; close the broiler and hold it 
firmly, that the slices may not slip ; move it gently over the 
fire for one or two mmutes ; then turn it over, that all the 
moisture may be drawn out ; hold it nearer to the coals, 
and color it a delicate golden-brown. Serve at once in a 
toast rack or piled lightty, that it may not lose its crisp- 
ness. Butter before serving, or send it dry to the table. 
Bread properly dried and toasted is changed from the 
nature of dough, which always has a tendency to sour on 
the stomach, into pure wheat farina. It is not so scorched 
as to turn the butter into oil, but absorbs the butter ; and 
butter and farina, being easily separated, are quickly acted 
upon by the gastric fluid. Many persons prefer toast that 
is soft inside, but it should never be served to sick people 
in that manner. It is better to have it dry, and then mois- 
tened with milk or water, than to have it doughy. If the 
bread be freshly baked and }*ou must make toast, dry the 
slices in a warm oven before toasting. Always toast over 
the coals, or in the oven. If toasted over a hot stove, the 
crumbs fall through and burn, giving it a scorched and- 
smoky flavor. 

Milk Toast. 



1 pint milk, scalded. 

1 tp-blespoonf ul cornstarch. 

1 large tablespoonf ul butter. 



% teaspoonf ul salt. 
6 slices dry toast. 



Scald the milk ; put the butter in a granite saucepan ; 
when melted, add the dry cornstarch ; when well mixed, 
add one third of the milk. Let it boil, and stir constantly 
till it is a smooth paste ; add the remainder of the milk 
gradually, stirring well ; then add the salt. Put the toast 
in a hot deep dish ; pour the thickened milk between each 
slice and over the whole. Keep the dish over hot water 
until ready to serve. If liked very soft, the slices may be 



The Boston Cook Book. 79 

first dipped in hot salted water, or in the hot milk before 
it is thickened. 

Cream Toast. 

Cream toast may be made in the same way, using a 
scant taUespoonful of butter, and cream instead of milk, 
or by thickening the boiling cream with one tablespoonful 
of cornstarch wet in a little cold milk or water ; then salt 
to taste, and boil eight or ten minutes. 

Water Toast. 

Have a shallow pan with one quart of boiling water and 
a teaspoonful of salt. Dip each slice of dry toast quickly 
in the water, then pile on a hot platter. Spread evenly 
with butter and serve very hot. Do not let them soak an 
instant in the water. 

Toast for Garnishing. 

For poached eggs, cut the bread into rounds with a 
large cake-cutter before toasting. For small birds or as- 
paragus, remove the crusts and cut into oblong pieces. 
For minces and fricassees, cut into small squares or dia- 
monds. For a border, cut, after toasting, into inch and a 
half squares, and then into halves diagonally, making tri- 
angles ; or cut into long pointed triangles. 



8o The Boston Cook Book. 



SODA BISCUIT, MUFFINS, GEMS, ETC. 

* 

The soda now used in cooking is the bicarbonate of 
soda, — an alkali made from the ashes of marine plants, or, 
more recently, from sea salt. Crude soda is known as sal- 
soda, or soda-saleratus ; when refined and cleared of its im- 
purities, it is carbonate and bicarbonate of soda, the latter 
haying twice as much carbonic acid gas as the carbonate. 
Potash is another fixed alkali made from wood ashes. 
Pearlash is purified potash. Saleratus is prepared from 
pearlash b} T exposing it to carbonic acid gas. 

Pure, strong alkalies are powerful corrosive poisons, 
eating the coats of the stomach perhaps quicker than any 
other poisonous agent. This caustic or burning property 
is somewhat weakened by the carbonic acid united with 
them, and is therefore less in bicarbonate of soda than in 
the potash compounds. The latter are now seldom used. 
Alkalies when properly combined with acids lose this poi- 
sonous property ; the carbonic acid gas is liberated, and 
the compound formed by this union is called a neutral salt, 
being neither acid nor alkaline. When not properly com- 
bined, if the acid be stronger than the alkali, the salt is 
acid ; and if the alkali be in excess, the salt is alkaline and 

# 

still poisonous. 

Soda has a great affinity for water ; and when wet, a 
combination takes place which allows some of the carbonic 
acid gas to escape. This may easily be seen by the effer- 
vescence which occurs when soda is dissolved in hot water. 
This, the old way of using soda, was theoretically wrong, 
as much of the gas was lost ; yet practically good results 
were obtained, because the saleratus formerly used was 
much stronger than the bicarbonate of soda of to-day, and 
could well be weakened. 



The Boston Cook Book. 8r 

Soda alone, when mixed with wet dough, will give off gas 
enough to raise the dough ; but it leaves a strong alkaline 
taste and a greenish yellow color, and, being poisonous, 
must be neutralized by an acid, or else its use is not ad- 
missible. The best acid for this purpose is one which does 
not liberate the gas instantly on contact with the soda, 
before the heat can fix the air cells, and also the one 
which leaves no unwholesome residue. 

Muriatic Acid, which is sometimes used, would be the 
best, as it leaves only common salt as a residue ; but the 
gas is liberated instantly, and only a skilled hand can mix 
the bread and place it in the oven without losing much 
of the gas. 

Cream of Tartar •, which is tartaric acid combined with 
potash, and is obtained from the crystals or argols which 
collect in wine casks, is preferred by chemists. Being 
only slightly soluble in cold water, it unites with soda 
only when heated, and the gas is not all liberated until 
the mixture is in the oven. The residue from the union 
is Rochelle salt, which is not injurious taken occasionally 
in small quantities. The objections to cream of tartar are 
these : being very expensive (the price varying with the 
grape crop), it is often adulterated with alum and other 
harmful substances ; and the proportions of soda and 
cream of tartar are often guessed at instead of being ac- 
curately measured. The only safe way to use these chemi- 
cals is to purchase cream of tartar of a reliable chemist, 
and to measure carefully one level teaspoonful of soda to two 
full teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar for one quart of flour. 
It takes a trifle more than twice the quantity of cream 
of tartar to make the reaction complete. The soda must 
De finely pulverized before measuring ; rub it on the board 
with a knife, measure, and then sift through the finest wire 
strainer into the flour. Sifting with the flour through an 
ordinary flour sieve is not enough. Cream of tartar does 
not become lumpy like soda ; but it is better to sift tt, and 
salt also, into the flour, and then sift all together two or 
three times. There is no greater abomination in cooked 

6 



82 The Boston Cook Book. 

food than a spot of soda, even if it be bat the size of a 
pin-head, and no one should excuse such negligence. 

Baking-Powders. — When j T our druggist or cook is not 
to be relied upon, use a baking-powder which has been 
tested and proved pure. Pure baking-powders are soda 
and cream of tartar mixed by weight in the proper pro- 
portion, and combined with rice flour, cornstarch, or some 
harmless ingredient to insure their keeping. To allow for 
this starch the measure should be a little more than the 
combined amount of soda and cream of tartar ; three 
rounding teaspoonfuls of baking-powder being equal to one 
level teaspoonful of soda and two full teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar. One even teaspoonful of baking-powder for 
each cup of flour is a convenient formula. 

Soda is also neutralized by sour milk or lactic acid. 
This is economical, particularly for those who have pure 
milk and more than they can use while it is sweet. But 
milk is often adulterated, and, in winter, grows bitter 
before it sours ; and the degree of acidity varies so much 
that the result is often failure. Sour milk is best when 
it sours quickly, and is thick and smooth, not separated. 
One even teaspoonful of soda to one pint of nicely thickened or 
loppered milk is the proportion. When the milk tastes 
or smells sour, but is not thick, use it as sweet milk in 
gingerbread or brown bread, where 3 T ou have molasses to 
complete the acidity. Add a very little more soda if 
the receipt call for sweet milk, or a little less if for sour 
milk. 

Nearly all kinds of soda biscuit, muffins, gems, etc., 
should have the dry ingredients mixed in one bowl, and 
the liquids, such as milk, eggs, melted butter, etc., in 
another ; and when ready to bake, stir the two quickly and 
thoroughly together, and bake immediately in a very hot 
oven. 

Molasses gives another acid which is combined with 
soda, to raise and lighten dough. Directions for its use 
are given under rules for brown bread and molasses 
gingerbread. 



The Boston Cook Booh 83 



Soda and Cream of Tartar Biscuit. 



2 full teaspoonfuls cream of 

tartar. 
1 large tablespoonful butter. 



1 quart sifted flour. 
1 even teaspoonf ul salt. 
1 even teaspoonful soda, meas- 
ured after pulverizing. 

Milk to make a very soft' dough : new-process flour will take a 
pint or more ; St. Louis flour, less. 

Mix in the order given, sifting the soda, salt, and cream of 
tartar into the flour. Then sift all together twice. Rub in 
the butter with the tips of the fingers, until there are no 
large lumps. Mix in the milk gradually, using a broad 
knife and wetting only a small part of the flour with each 
addition of the milk. When just stiff enough to be handled 
(not kneaded), cut it through with the knife until barely 
mixed ; it should look spongy in the cuts and seem full of 
air. Turn it out on a well-floured board ; toss with the 
knife till well floured ; touch it with the hands as little as 
possible ; pat it with the rolling-pin, which must be lifted 
quickly that it may not stick; and when the dough is 
about half an inch thick, cut it into rounds and bake 
at once. 

To make Twin Biscuit, roll the dough out less than half 
an inch thick, cut into rounds, spread with softened but- 
ter, and put two together, and bake ten or fifteen minutes. 

Baking-Powder Biscuit. 

These are made in the same way as the preceding, 
using three rounding teaspoonfuls of baking-ppwder in 
place of soda and cream of tartar. 

Sour Milk Biscuit. 

These should be made the same as cream of tartar bis- 
cuit, using one pint of thick sour milk instead of sweet 
milk, and omitting the cream of tartar. Observe the same 
directions as to lightness and dexterity in mixing, and 
vary the amount of milk according to the flour. 



f^ 




^jf-w— I ' «aspoonful cream of tartar. 

^^ rje *"""' / 1 tablespoonf ul sugar. 

i -;<-***' t I 1 teaspoonful melted butter. 
I*" $'<*'%>. 

* '"*^ ltt ' "***,  drop batter ( about one cup) . If sour milk be 
* nug" * „/ tartar. 

'*"° he oi^er given, and bake in hot gem pans 
J* 1 * '"thirty minutes- 
twenty ot 

I Cream Biscuit. 

I When using sweet cream, make the same as cream of 

/ ^ t biscuit i and when using sour cream, the same as 

/ B our-roiU£ biscuit, omitting the butter in either case. Any 

' e f these mixtures may be baked in gem or muffin pans by 

as ing more milk, and making the dough soft enough to 
drop from the spoon. 

Short Cakes, No. 1. 

1 full teaspoonf ill cream of tartar 

(omit if sour milk be used). 
% cup butter. 
1 cup sweet or bout milk, or cold 



1 pint sifted flour. 
}£ teaspoonful salt, scant. 
J^ teaspoonful soda, measured 
after pulverizing. 

Mix the salt, soda, and cream of tartar with the flour, 
and sift two or three times. Rub in the butter until fine 
like meal, or if liked very short and crisp, melt the butter 
and add it hot with the milk. Add the liquid gradually, 
mixing and cutting with a knife, and use just enough to 
make it of a light spongy consistency. Scrape out the 
dough upon a well-floured board ; toss it with the knife 
until floured ; pat into a flat cake, and roll gently, till half 
an inch thick j cut with a small round cutter, and bake on 
the griddle or in the oven. If you use a griddle, grease 
it well with salt pork or butter, and cook the cakes slowly ; 
watch and turn them, that all may be browned alike. 




The Boston Cook Booh 85 

When they are well puffed up, put a bit of butter on the top 
of each, and turn over, — or move them to one side and 

# grease again with the pork, and turn over upon the freshly 
greased place. When browned on the other side and 
done, of which you can judge bj 7 the firmness of texture 
or by pulling one partly open, serve immediately. Tear 
them open, as cutting with a knife makes them heavy and 
indigestible. If to be baked in the oven, put them quite 
close together in a shallow pan, and bake ten or fifteen 
minutes. 

Short Cakes, jNo. 2. 

Make by rule No. 1 , and divide into two parts ; pat and 
roll each part into a large, round cake the size of a pie 
plate, and bake either in a spider or in the oven. These 
short cakes may be eaten hot with butter if for a simple* 
breakfast or tea cake, or buttered and spread with sweet- 

• ened fruit for dessert. 

Strawberry Short Cake, No. 1. 

Make a crust by rule for Dutch Apple Cake, on page 86 ; 
bake it on round tins ; split, butter, and spread with sweet- 
ened berries and cream. 

Strawberry Short Cake, No. 2. 

Make by rule No. 1 for Short Cake, and bake on a grid- 
dle in small rounds. Tear open, and spread each half 
with softened butter. Put half of the cakes on a hot plate. 
Mash a pint of strawberries, sweeten to taste, put a large 
spoonful on each cake ; then put another layer of cakes, 
and whole berries, well sugared." Serve with cream. 

Peach Short Cake. 

Make by either of the receipts for Strawberry Short Cake, 
and spread with sliced and sweetened peaches. Apricots 
may be used in the same way ; and cream may be added 
if preferred. 



86 



The Boston Cook Book. 



Orange Short Cake. 

The same as Strawberry, using oranges. Peel and di- 
vide the oranges, remove the seeds and thick inner skin, 
and cat each section into three or four pieces. Sweeten 
to taste. 

Whole- Wheat or Rye Short Cakes. 



1 cup white flour. 

1 cup whole-wheat or rye flour. 

Y 2 teaspoonful soda, crushed be- 
fore measuring, and sifted into 
the flour. 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar 
(omit if sour milk be used). 



3*2 teaspoonful salt. 
1 tablespoonf ul sugar. 
1 cup of sweet or sour milk, the 
amount varying with the flour. 
1 tablespoonf ufmelted butter. 



Mix in the order given, making the dough stiff enough 
to be rolled. Cut into rounds and bake on a griddle ; tear 
open and serve with cream and salt. Or roll very thin, 
cut and bake in the oven, split and pour cream thickened 
as for toast over them. 



Dutch Apple Cake. (Mrs. A. A. Lincoln.) 



-•*•, 
& 



* 



-J- 



1 pint flour. 

Yz teaspoonful salt. 

^£ teaspoonful soda, sifted into 

the flour. 
1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 



% cup butter. 
!egg. 

1 scant cup milk. 
4 sour apples. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 



Mix the dry ingredients in the order given ; rub in the 
butter ; beat the egg and mix it with the milk ; then stir 
this into the dry mixture. The dough should be soft 
enough to spread half an inch thick on a shallow baking- 
pan. Core, pare, and cut four or five apples into eighths ; 
lay them in parallel rows on top of the dough, the sharp 
edge down, and press enough to make the edge penetrate 
slightly. Sprinkle the sugar on the apple. Bake in a hot 
oven twenty or thirty minutes. To be eaten hot with but- 
ter as a tea cake, or with lemon sauce as a pudding. 



*' 



A 



r 



L 



The Boston Cook Book. 87 



Apple or Huckleberry Cakes. 



1 pint sifted flour. 
% teaspoonf ul salt. 

2 even teasp. baking-powder. 
j£ cup butter. 

% cup sugar. 



1 egg, yolk and white beaten sep- 
arately. 

1 cup milk. 

1 heaping cup huckleberries or 
thinly sliced apples. 



Mix the flour, salt, and baking-powder, and sift two or 
three times. Have the berries pioked over, washed, dried, 
and sprinkled with flour. Rub the butter to a cream, add 
the sugar, and beat again. Add the yolk well beaten, and 
then the milk. Stir this into the flour and beat thor- 
oughly ; add the f white beaten stiff, and, lastly, the berries, 
being careful not to break them. Bake in a shallow pan 
or in muffin pans about half an hour. 

These may be made with sour milk, omftting the baking- 
powder, and using half a teaspoonful of soda ; or leave out 
half a cup of flour, and substitute for it half a cup of fine 
white corn meal. 



Milk or water enough to moisten. 
1 pint berries, washed, dried, and 
floured. 



Huckleberry Cake, No. 2. (Mrs. A, A. Lincoln.) 

1 quart flour. % cup butter 

1 scant teaspoonf ul salt. 

4 even teasp. baking-powder. 

)£ cup sugar. 

Mix salt, baking-powder, and sugar with the flour. 
Rub in the butter, and moisten- with milk or water to make 
a dough stiff enough to keep in shape when dropped from 
a spoon. Add the berries, which should be well floured to 
keep them from settling. Drop' by the large spoonfuls on 
a well-buttered shallow pan. Bake twenty minutes. 

Raised Flour Muffins or Sally Lunns (with Yeast). 



1 cup milk, scalded and cooled. 
% teaspoonful salt, scant. 
1 teaspoonf ul sugar. 
M cup yeast. 



1 egg, yolk and white beaten sep- 
arately. 

Flour enough to make a drop 
batter. 



If intended for tea, add two tablespoonfuls of sugar , and 
mix late in the forenoon. They will rise in five or six 



88 The Boston Cook Book. 



hours ; then add one large tablespoonful of butter melted. 
When well mixed, fill muffin pans two thirds full. Let 
them rise fifteen or twenty minutes, and bake in a hot 
oven. Or they may be baked in muffin rings on a griddle, 
in which case it is better to add the melted butter at the 
first mixing. When ready to bake, have the griddle and 
rings well greased ; contrive to take up a spoonful of the 
dough without stirring enough to let out the air, and fill 
each ring ; cook until brown and well risen, then turn ring 
and muffin together, and brown the other side. Pull them 
apart, never cut them. This same mixture, when risen and 
baked in a buttered pudding-dish in which it is to be 
served, is the old-fashioned Sally Lunn. Cut with the 
point of a warm knife. If intended for breakfast, make a 
batter with the milk, yeast, flour, and sugar, mix late in 
the evening and keep in a cool place. In the morning add 
the egg, melted butter, and salt, and bake as usual. 

Muffins or Sally Lunns, No. 2 (made quickly). 



1 pint flour. 

2 teaspoonf uls baking-powder. 
% teaspoonf ul salt, scant. 



2 eggs, beaten separately. 

% cup milk. 

% cup butter, melted. 



Mix flour, baking-powder, and salt. Beat the yolks, and 
add the milk and melted butter. Put the two mixtures 
together quickly ; add the whites last. Fill muffin pans 
two thirds full, and bake fifteen minutes in a very hot 
oven. This makes eight muffins. If for tea, add two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar to the flour. Use a scant cup of 
milk and one fourth of a cup of butter if you prefer. 

j Oatmeal Biscuit. (Miss Barnes.) 

3 cups boiling water. 1 scant teaspoonful salt 

1 cup oatmeal. 

Pour the water on the oatmeal ; add the salt, and cook 

• three hours in a double boiler. While still warm, add one 

large tablespoonful of butter, and half a cup of sugar* 



The Boston Cook Book. 



89 



When cool, add half a cup of yeast, and flour to make 
a stiff dough. Let it rise over night. In the morning 
bake in gem pans twenty minutes or till brown. 



Tea Cakes. 



2% cups St. Louis flour. 
3*2 teaspoonful soda. 
1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
J^ cup sugar. 



% teaspoonful salt. 

legg. 

1 cup milk. 

1 tablespoonful butter, melted* 



Mix in the order given, and bake in gem pans or cups. 
Add one cup of berries, and it makes a delicious berry 
cake. 

Cream Muffins. 



1 pint flour. 

% teaspoonful salt. 

3^ teaspoonful soda. 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 



Yolks of 2 eggs, beaten lightly. 
% cup cream or enough to make 

a drop batter. 
Whites of 2 eggs, beaten stiff. 



Bake in muffin pans, and serve very hot. 



Tea Cake (Loaf). 



1 pint flour. 
% teaspoonful soda. 
1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
% teaspoonful salt. 
8 eggs, yolks beaten and mixed 
with 



3 tablespoonf uls sugar. 

1 cup milk (mixed with the yolks 
and sugar). 

2 tablespoonf uls melted butter. 
Whites of the eggs added last. 



Bake in a brickloaf pan, in a hot oven. To be eaten hot 
as a tea cake. 



Granulated Wheat Muffins. 



1)^ cups granulated wheat (Health 

Food or Arlington). 
% teaspoonful salt. 
2 even teasp. baking-powder. 



1 tablespoonful sugar. 
1 egg. 

1 scant cup milk. 
}4 cup water. 



Mix in the order given, and bake in hissing hot gem pans 
twenty minutes. 



go The Boston Cook Book. 



—^ 



Bye Muffins. (Miss Parloa.) 



1 cup white flour. 

legg. 

1 cup milk. 



1 cup rye flour, or sifted rye meal. 
J^ cup sugar. 
Y 2 teaspoonf ul salt. 

2 teaspoonf uls baking-powder. 

Mix rye, sugar, salt, flour, and baking-powder thor- 
oughly. Beat the egg ; add the milk, and stir quickly into 
the dry mixture. Bake in hot gem or muffin pans twenty- 
five minutes. 

Corn Muffins. {From an unknown Friend.) 



1 cup common corn meal. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
1 scant teaspoonf ul salt. 



1 even tablespoonf ul butter. 
5 cups boiling water. 



Mix at night the meal, sugar, and salt in the top of the 
double boiler ; add the butter and boiling water, stir until 
smooth, and cook an hour. Turn into a mixing-bowl, 
and pour over it one fourth of a cup of water to prevent a 
crust from forming. In the morning beat it up soft and 
smooth. Mix one cup and a half of fine yellow corn 
flour, one cup and a half of white flour, two even tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder, and stir them mto the cooked 
meal. Add one egg, well beaten. Drop the mixture into 
round iron gem pans, and bake in a hot oven. 

To make corn and rye muffins, add, in the morning, 

1 cup yellow corn flour. 1 cup common flour. 

1 cup rye flour. 

Or make corn and whole-wheat muffins by adding 

\% cups yellow corn flour. % cup common flour. 

1 cup whole-wheat flour, Frank- 
lin or Arlington. 

These are delicious. This rule makes fifteen muffins. 
If fewer be desired, half of the cooked corn-meal mixture 
may be used, and the remainder reserved for another 
baking. But in this case do not forget to halve the 



The Boston Cook Book. 



9i 



dry mixture added in the morning, and to use one small 
egg. 

Apple Johnny Cake (without Eggs). (Mrs. Webb.) 



1 pint white meal. 

2 tablespoonf ills sugar. 
% teaspoonful salt. 

% teaspoonful soda. 



1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
Milk enough to mix quite soft 
8 apples, pared and sliced. 



Mix in the order given. Bake in a shallow cake pan 
thirty minutes. 

Corn Cake (thin). 



1 cup yellow corn meal. 
% cup sugar. 
% teaspoonful salt. 
1 cup flour. 



2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 

legg. 

1 cup milk. 

1 tablespoonf ul melted butter. 



Mix in the order given, and bake in two. Washington 
pie tins, spreading the mixture thick enough to half fill 
the pan. 

Sponge Corn Cake (Sour Milk). 



Yolks of 2 eggs. 

White of 1 egg. 

1 tablespoonf ul butter, melted. 

1 cup sour milk. 



Bake in a shallow round pan or in a brickloaf pan. Use 
the other white of egg for clearing the coffee. 



1 cup flour. 
% cup corn meal. 
% teaspoonful salt. 
% teaspoonful soda. 
% cup sugar. 



Sponge Corn Cake (Sweet Milk). 



1 cup meal. 

% cup flour. 

% teaspoonful salt. 

% teaspoonful soda. 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 



1 tablespoonf ul melted butter 
1 tablespoonf ul sugar. 
Yolks of 2 eggs. 
White of 1 egg. 
1J£ cup milk. 



Bake in brickloaf bread pan about half an hour. 



92 The Boston Cook Book. 



Spider Corn Cake (Sour Milk). (Miss Parloa.) 



% cup corn meal. 
Flour to fill the cup. 
1 tablespoonf ul sugar. 
]/ 2 teaspoonful salt. 
% teaspoonful soda, scant. 



legg. 

1 cup sweet milk. 

y 2 cup sour milk. 

1 tablespoonf ul butter. 



Mix the meal, flour, sugar, salt, and soda. Beat the 
egg ; add half of the sweet milk, and all the sour milk. 
Stir this into the dry mixture. Melt the butter in a hot 
spider, or shallow round pan, and pour the mixture into 
it. Pour the other half cup of sweet milk over the top, 
but do not stir it in. Bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

Corn and Rice Muffins. 



1 pint white corn meal. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
1 tablespoonf ul flour. 
1 cup cold boiled rice. 
1 teaspoonful soda, scant. 



1 pint sour milk, 
legg. 

1 tablespoonf ul melted butter, or 
drippings. 



Bake in muffin pans about twenty minutes. 

Hominy and Corn Meal Cakes. (Mrs. S. S. Ropes.) 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of fine, uncooked hominy, half 
a teaspoonful of soli, one tablespoonful of butter, half a cup 
of boiling water. Place this over the teakettle, or on the 
back of the stove until the hominy absorbs all the water. 
Pour one cup of boiling milk on one scant cup of corn 
meal; add two tablespoonfuls of sugar and the homing. 
When cooled, add two eggs, yolks. and whites beaten sep- 
arately, and one heaping teaspoonful of baking-powder. 
Bake in hot, buttered gem pans twenty minutes. 

Maryland Corn Cakes (without Soda). (Mrs. Upham.) 

Mix one cup of fine white sified meal, one even table* 
spoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of sugar % one saUspoonful 



1 



The Boston Cook Book. 93 

of salt. Add one scant cup of boiling milk. When cooled, 
add one egg, yolk and white beaten separately. Bake in 
stone cups about thirty minutes. 

Dodgers, Dabs, or Corn Meal Puffs (without Soda). 

(Miss Alice Walcott.) 

Two cups of fine white corn meal, scalded with boiling 
water so that the meal is all wet but not soft ; add one 
teaspoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of sugar, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, two or three tablespoonfuls of milk; when 
cold, add two eggs, yolks and whites beaten separatety. 
The batter should drop easily from the spoon, not be 
thin enough to pour, nor stiff enough to be scraped out. 
Have your pans greased and hissing hot, and the oven as 
hot as possible. Bake until brown and puffy. 

Indian Bannock (without Soda). (A. W,) 



1 cup corn meal. 
1 teaspoonful sugar. 



1 teaspoonful salt. 
1 pint boiling milk. 



When cool, add two eggs, beaten separately. Bake In 
a shallow earthen dish in a very hot oven, and serve in 
the dish, like a pudding. 

Hoe Cake (without Soda). 



Boiling milk or water enough to 
scald it. 



1 cup white corn meal. 

% teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful sugar (if you like). 

Make it thick enough not to spread when put on the 
griddle. Grease the griddle with salt pork, drop the mix- 
ture on with a large spoon. Pat the cakes out till about 
half an inch thick ; cook them slowly, and when browned 
put a bit of butter on the top of each cake and turn over. 
They cannot cook too long, provided they do not burn. 
Sometimes the dough is put on in one large cake, and as 
soon as browned underneath is turned over upon a freshly 
greased place ; the thin, crisp crust is peeled off with a 
knife, laid on a hot plate, and spread with butter, and 



>"*\ 



94 The Boston Cook BjoJc. 

when another brown crust has formed, the cake is turned 
again, the crust is removed and buttered, and so on until 
the cake is all browned. These crisp, buttered crusts are 
served piled together and cut in sections. n 

Rice Crusts. (Miss Ward.) 

Cook one cup of cold boiled rice in the double boiler in 
milk enough to make a thin mixture, and until the rice is 
very soft. Add one taUespoonfjil of sugar, a little salt, one 
egg, and flour enough to^ make it hold together. Spread 
on the pan, having the mixture one third of an inch thick. 
Bake in a Jiot oven. Split and eat with sycup. 

Bice or Hominy Drop Cakes. 

One cup of boiled hominy or rice, and one egg. If the 
hominy be cold, heat in a farina kettle with one tablespoon- 
ful of water, and stir till it is softened. Beat yolk and 
white separately ; add one saltspoonful of salt. Drop in 
tablespoonfuls on a' well-buttered pan, and bake brown in 
a hot oven. 

Breakfast Puffs, or Pop-overs. 



1 cap flour. 

1 saltspoonful salt. 

1 cup milk. 



1 egg, yolk and white beaten sep- 
* arately. 



Mix the salt with the flour ; add part of the milk slowly, 
until a smooth paste is formed ; add the remainder of the 
milk with the beaten yolk, and lastly the white beaten to 
a stiff froth. Cook in hot buttered gem pans or earthen 
cups in a quick oven half an hour, or until the puns are 
brown and well popped over. 

Eye Gems, or Shells (without Soda). 



% cup rye meal. 

j£ cup flour. 

1 saltspaonf ul salt 



2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 

1 cup milk. 



Mix the meal, flour, and salt; Beat the yolks ; add the 
sugar and milk. Stir this into the dry mixture ; add the 



r* 



* The Boston Cook Book. 95 

^— ^ ^— — — i— ..— _ ^— — __ — . ^^_— — ^ — — — . 

whites, beaten stiff. Bake in iron jjem pans, or stone 
cups, thirty to fort} 7 minutes. One cup of mixed rye meal, 
white corn mealy and whole-wheat flour, in about equal pro- 
portions, may be-used in the same way. This receipt makes 
'x gems. • 



Whole- Wheat or Graham Gems, or Puffs. (A. W.) 

2 cups of whole-wheat flour. 2 eggs, beaten separately. 

% teaspoonf ul salt. * 1 enn milk. 

1 tablespoonf ul sugar. 



1 cup milk. 
1 cup water. 



Mix flour, salt, and sugar. Add the milk to the beaten 
yolks, then the water, and stir this into the dry mixture. 
Add the whites, beaten stiff, and bake in hissing hot gem 
pans thirty minutes. 



Whole- Wheat Crisps (specially good for Children). 



1 cup rich cream, sweet or sour. 

j£ cup_suga?. 

1 saltspoonful salt. 



2 cups flue granulated wheat flour, 
or enough to make a stiff dough. 



\ 



Knead fifteen minutes, or till stiff enough to roll out thin * 
as a wafer. Cut with a biscuit cutter, and bake on un- 4> m 

greased tins in a very hot oven. The sugar will sweeten 
the sour cream sufficiently. 

Fine Granulated Wheat Gems (no Yeast, Soda, nor Eggs). 

1 cup water: 1 1 saltspoonful salt. 

1 cup milk. 1 1% CU P S fi ne granulated wheat. 

Stir the flour slowly into the liquid, until you have a drop 
batter. Then beat as rapidly and as long as your arm 
will allow. Have the iron gem pans hissing hot, and well 
battered. Fill quickly, giving the batter a brisk. beating 
several times during the filling, and bake at once in a very 
hot oven. 



g6 The Boston Cook Book. 



Maryland, or Beaten Biscuit. (Mrs. Towne.) 

1 quart flour. I % teaspoonful salt. 

j£ cup lard. | 1 cup cold water. 

Rub the lard and salt into the flour, and mix with cold 
water to a very stiff dough. Knead ten minutes, or until 
well mixed ; then beat hard with a* biscuit beater or heavv 
rolling-pin, turning the mass over and over until it begins 
to blister and looks light and puffy, or "till, pulling off a 
piece quickly, it will give a sharp, snapping sound." When 
in this condition, pull off a small piece suddenly, form 
it into a round biscuit, then pinch off a bit from the top. 
Turn over and press with the thumb, leaving a hollow in 
the centre. Put the biscuit some distance apart in the 
pan. Prick with a fork. Bake twenty minutes in a quick 
oven. They should be light, of a fine, even grain, and 
crack at the edges like our crackers. In Maryland no 
young lady's education was formerly considered finished 
until she had learned the art of making beaten biscuit. 

Graham Wafers. 



1 pint white flour. 
1 pint Graham flour. 
% cup butter. 
Y % cup sugar. 

Roll out very thin, cut in squares, and bake quickly. 



1 saltspoonful Bait. 
Cold water enough to make a stiff 
dough. 



Wafer Biscuit (for Invalids). 



1 pint flour. 

1 tablespoonf ul butter. 

1 saltspoonful salt. . 



White of 1 egg. 

Warm new milk enough to make 
a stiff dough/ 



Mix salt with the flour ; rub in the butter ; add the beaten 
white of eggy and milk enough to make a stiff dough. 
Beat half an hour with a rolling-pin, without ceasing. 
Break off a little piece of dough at a time, and roll it out 
as thin as paper. Cut into large rounds. Prick with a 
small wooden skewer, and bake quickly without burning. 



The Boston Cook Boqk. 97 



Gluten Wafer's. 

Half a cup of sweet cream and one saUspoonful of salt. 
Stir in gluten enough to make a stiff dough. Knead and 
roll out very thin. Cut into rouuds, and bake a delicate 
brown on an ungreased tin. Gluten is a preparation of 
wheat flour without the starch. 



Waffles, Griddle-Cakes, Pancakes, etc. 

The names pancakes, fritters, flap-jacks, slap-jacks, 
batter-cakes, griddle-cakes, slappers, etc., are applied in- 
discriminately in different localities. 

Pancakes were formerly a kind of muffin mixture, made 
a little stiffer than a drop batter, but not stiff enough to 
roll out, and were dropped from a spoon into hot fat, and 
fried like doughnuts. But, recently, the name has been 
applied to a very thin batter made usually without soda, 
cooked one cake at a time on a small well-buttered frying- 
pan, and turned like a griddle-cake; then buttered, and 
rolled over and over, or spread with sugar and jelly, and 
then rolled. In " ye olden time" good cooks were sup- 
posed to have the knack of tossing the pan so skilfully 
that the cake would turn over itself ; but this is now one 
of the lost arts. 

For convenience and clearness, the following names will 
be used in this work : — 

Griddle- Cakes: any kind of small, thin batter-cake* 
cooked on a griddle. 

Pancakes : larger, thin batter-cakes, made without soda, 
and cooked in a small frying-pan. 

French or Rolled Pancakes : the same as the preceding, 
buttered, sweetened, and rolled. 

Fried Drop Cakes or Fried Muffins : any muffin mixture, 
dropped from a spoon into deep hot fat. 

Fritters: a thinner mixture made without soda, either 
plain or with meat* fish, or fruit, and cooked by dropping 
into deep hot fat. 



98 The Boston Cook Book. 



Waffles and Griddle-Cake*. 

A waffle iron is made of two corrugated iron griddles 
fitted and fastened together at one side with a hinge, and 
revolving in an iron frame, which is to be placed over the 
fire. It may be either circular or oblong. Each griddle 
is divided into compartments, which are usually grooved 
into diamonds, hearts, rounds, etc. m 

The iron should be placed over the fire, heated on each 
side, and greased thoroughly, as it is very hard to clean 
if the cakes stick. Put -a piece of salt pork on a fork, or 
put a small piece of butter in a clean cloth, and rub all 
over both griddles. The heat will melt the butter and let 
just enough of it go through the cloth. This is better 
than to" put it on with a knife. Close the griddles and 
turn them ; this causes the fat to run evenly over them. 
Open, and pour the waffle mixture into the centre of the 
half over the fife, or put a spoonful in each compartment, 
filling them about two thirds full. Cover, and cook one 
minute on one side, then turn and cook a little longer 
on the other. Any kind of griddle-cake mixture, with 
the addition of .the melted butter to make them crisp, 
may be cooked on a waffle-iron, if one cares to take the 
extra trouble. 



Waffles. 



1 frint flour. 

1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 

% teaspoonful salt. 



8 eggs. 

1J£ cups milk. 

1 tablespoonf ul butter, melted. 



Mix in the order given ; add the beaten yolks of the 
eggs with the milk, then the melted butter, and the whites 
last. Serve with butter, or syrup, or caramel sauce. 

Lemon Syrup (served with Waffles). 



1 cup sugar. 
J£ cup water. 



1 teaspoonful butter. 

1 table8poonful lemon juice. 



Boil the sugar with the water until it thickens slightly. 



The Boston Cook Book. 99 

Add the butter and lemon juice. Serve as soon as the 
butter is melted. 

Raised Waffles. 

Mix at night one pint of milk, one third of a cup of yeast, 
and one pint of flour. In the morning add half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, two eygs> yolks and whites beaten separately, and 
one tablespoonful of melted butter. 

Use only one egg, make the batter a trifle thinner, and 
fry on the griddle, and you have Flannel Cakes. 

Either of these receipts maj r be varied by using half or 
one third fine white corn ntSal or Graham flour with the 
white flour. If intended for tea, mix in the forenoon. 



To Cook Griddle-Cakes. 

A soapstone griddle, which needs no greasing, is the 
best ; but of whatever material, let it be large enough to 
hold seven cakes. Let it heat while you are making the 
cakes. If an iron griddle be used, put a piece of salt pork 
two inches square on a fork ; and when the griddle is 
hot enough for the fat to sizzle, rub it all over with 
the pork. Just grease it ; do not leave little pools of fat 
on the edge to burn, and smoke the cakes. Take up 
a tablespoonful of the mixture, and pour it from the e»d 
of the spoon. The mixture should hiss or sizzle as it 
touches the griddle. Put one in the centre and six 
around the outside. By the time you have the seventh 
cake on, the first one will be full of bubbles and ready 
to turn ; and when the seventh is turned, the first will 
have stopped puffing and be done. Wipe the griddle 
with a dry cloth, and grease again after each baking. 
Turn your griddle often, bringing each edge of it in 
turn over the hottest part of the stove, that the cakes may 
cook evenly. Always mix waffles or griddle-cakes in 
a bowl with a lip, and beat up the mixture well between 
each baking. 



r 



ioo The Boston Cook Book. 



Griddle-Cakes. 



1 pint flour. 

% teaspoonf ul salt. 

1 teaspoonf ui soda. 



1 scant pint sour milk or cream. 

2 eggs, well beaten. 



Crush, measure, and sift the soda and salt into the 
flour. Mix thoroughly. Add the milk, and beat well ; 
then add the beaten yolks, and lastly, the whites, beaten 
stiff. Bake on a hot, well-greased griddle ; turn when 
full of bubbles, and bake on the other side till they stop 
puffing. Use one half or one third fine corn meed or Gra- 
ham flour, to- make a variety. 

To make Huckleberry Griddle- Cakes, add one pint of 
berries, picked over and rolled in flour. 

Some persons prefer to mix t* jpiir milk with the 
flour, and let the mixture stand oyg^y ***$.. £ In the morn- 
ing add the salt, soda, and eger 

Sour milk is the best for gnc^J^o^V? M *?d when thick- 
ened just right, the cakes are very goou Without the eggs. 

Rice or Hominy Griddle-Cakes (no Soda). 

1 cup sweet milk. 

1 cup warm boiled rice, or fine 

hominy. 
% teaspoonful salt. 



2 eggs, yolks and whites beaten 

separately. 
1 tablespoonful melted butter. 
Flour enough to make a thin 

batter. 



Bake either as griddle-cakes or waffles. 



Bread Griddle-Cakes. 



1 pint stale (not dried) bread 
crumbs. 



1 pint milk, scalded. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 

Pour the hot milk over the crumbs, add the butter, and 
soak over night or till the crumbs are softened- Then 
rub through a squash strainer ; add oWW ^ A ° 

2 eggs, yolks and whites beaten % teaspoonful salt. 



separately. 
1 cup flour. 



2 teaspoonf uls baking-powu 
Cold milk to thin it if needed. 



Bake slowly : spread with butter and sugar, and serve hot. 



The Boston Cook Book. 101 



Raised Graham Griddle-Cakes. 

Mix one pint of milk, scalded and cooled, one cup of 
whole- wheat flour, one cup of white flour, one fourth of a cup 
of liquid yeast. Let it rise over night. In the morning 
add half a teaspbonful of salt, one tablespoonful of mo- 
lasses, one saltspoonful of soda. If too thick, add a little 
warm water. These are more wholesome than buckwheat 
cakes. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

Pour one pint of boiling water on half a cup of fine 
corn meal; add half a teaspoonful of salt. Mix well, 
and .when lukf -m add half a cup of white flour, one 
cup of oil* 1 ne fourth of a cup of yeast. Beat 

.&U over night. In the morning stir 
down, and t. -_, ~ '^en risen and ready to bake, 
* .' 2 +<jJ'j,',' sifted through a fine strainer. 

Beat again, and fry In large cakes. 

Buckwheat cakes, even if not sour, usually require the 
addition of soda just before baking, to make them light and 
tender. But when in their best estate, they are far from 
perfect food. They should be eaten only in very cold 
weather, and but seldom even then. They are better and 
brown better when made with boiling milk instead of 
water. 

Corn Meal Slappers, or Griddle-Cakes (no Soda). 



1 pint corn-meal. 
1 teaspoonf ul butter. 



1 saltspoonful salt. 
1 teaspoonful sugar. 



Pour into this mixture boiling milk or water enough 
to wet the meal. When cool, add two eggs, well beaten, 
and ilk enough to make a ver} r thin batter. 

Pease Griddle-Cakes. 

- r * • 

* * 

Take green pease which have been boiled, but are too 
bard to eat as a vegetable. Drain very dry, then mash, 



102 The Boston Cook Booh 

and rub the pulp through the squash strainer. Or boil 
one cup of split pease till very tender, letting the water 
boil away. Drain, mash, and rub through a squash 
strainer, and use the same as the squash in squash griddle- 
cakes. 

Squash Griddle-Cakes. 



1 cup boiling milk. 
1 cup sifted squash. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 



% teaspoonful salt. 

legg. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder. 

1 cup flour. 



Pour the boiling milk into the squash ; add the butter, 
sugar, and salt. When cool, add the egg^ well beaten, 
then the baking-powder, mixed and sifted with the flour. 
If too thin, use more flour ; and if too thick, add a little 
milk*. 11, *The dry mealy squash is the best. 

French Pancakes (no Soda). (Mi * Parloa.) *- 



3 eggs. 

1 cup milk. 

% teaspoonful salt. 



1 teaspoonful sugar. 

% cup flour. 

% tablespoonful salad oil. 

Beat the yolks and whites separately. Add the milk, 
salt, and sugar fo the yolks. Pour one third of this mix- 
ture on the flour, an/! stir to ** smooth paste. Add the 
remain^r of the milk, and beat well ; then add the oil. 
Heat and butter a small fr3'ing-pan, and i^ur into it 
enough of the mixture to cover the j>an ; when brown, 
turn and brown the other side. Spread with butter and 
sugar or jelly ; roll up, and sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

Fried Drop Cakes. 

The fat for fried cakes should be clean, new fat, half 
lard and half clarified beef drippin^ By new fat is. 
meant fat that has not been used for  . or fish, or be- 
come browned by previous frying. The same fat may 
be used s<*tff%*^ times by clarifying with several thin 
slices of raw potato* and straining through a fine strainer 
after each frying. When it becomes too brown for any 



The Boston Cook Book. 103 

flour mixtures, it will answer for croquettes or fish balls. 
It should be very hot, and still, not bubbling; but not 
as hot as for mixtures which have been previously cooked. 
The surest way is to fry a bit of the fixture. It should 
rise at once to the surface, with much spluttering of the 
fat, swell, and begin to brown on the under side. Drop 
cukes will usually turn over themselves, but doughnuts 
and fritters should be turned. They should be cooked an 
even golden brown, and the fat be kept at the right tem- 
perature by moving the kettle farther from or nearer to 
the fire. Try them with a fork, and if it come out clean, 
they are done. 

Drain each cake over the hot fat, and when they cease to 
drip, put the?4jj3p a squash strainer placed in a pan on the 
back of the stove, or drain on soft brown paper. • Change 
the first cooked to another pan when the next are ready 
to be taken out. 9 If the fat be not hot enough, or if there 
be too much soda, doughnuts will absorb the fat. The 
alkali in them unites with the grease, as it does in making 
soap. The eggs will prevent the cakes from soaking in the 
fat, and it is healthful and more economical to use them. 

Fried Flour Muffins. (Miss* J. A. Maynard.) 

r>j 

1 saltspponf ul salt. 
Flour enough to ^nuucfe a stiff 
batter. 



,8 



1 egg. 

^ cup sugar. 

% cup miltP'^ 

1 teaspoonftflHtakin&gowder. 

Mix salt and Baking-powder with two cups of flour. 
Beat the egg very ligfcrt ; ad^the sugar, and beat again. 
Add the milk, then the flour, with enough more, if needed, 
to make a stiff batter. Drbp from a spoon into hot fat. 

Fried Com Meal Cakes. (Miss Ward.) 

One pint of taom, poured boiling hot upon one cup of 
corn meal ; add ' one heaping tablespoonful of sugar, and half 
a teaspoonful of salt. Let it*stand all iHJ^Vor tilt well 
swollen ; then add two eggs and half a cup of flour. - Fry 
in hot lard. * "W .» 



104 



The Boston XJook Booh 



Fried Rye Muffins. 



J£ cup rye meal. 

% cup flour. 

% teaspoonful soda. 

1 teaspoonf ul cream of tartar. 



1 tablespoonf ul sugar. 
1 saltspoonful salt. 

legg- 

% cup milk. 



Mix in the order given, and drop from a small table- 
spoon into hot fat. Cook until the muffins will not' stick 
when tried with a fork. 



Fried Eye Muffins (Sour Milk). 



1 pint sour m^k. 
% cup of molasses. 
1 saltspoonful salt! 



1 saltspoonful cinnamon. 

1 teaspoonf ul soda. 

2 eggs. 



Rye flour to make a stiff drop batter. Fry as in the 
preceding rule. 

Sour Milk Doughnuts. (Mrs. Henderson.) 

Two eggs, beaten light, one cup of sugar ^ three even table' 
spoonfuls of. melted butter, one cup of sour milk (or if sweet 
milk be used, add one teaspoonf ul of cream of tartar) , four 
cups of flour, with half a teaspoonful of sorfa, and one salt- 
spoonful each of cinnamon and salt. Enough more flour to 
make just soft enough to roll out. Mix the dough rather 
soft at first. Have the board well floured, and the fat 
heating. Roll only a large spoonful at first. Cut into 
rings with an open cutter. Mix the trimmings with 
another spoonful. Work it slightly till well floured, and 
roll again. Roll and cut all out before frying, as that 
will demand your whole .attention*. Remember that the 
fat should be hot enough for the dough to rise to the 

top instantly. 

Doughnuts, No. 2. 



1 quart flour. 

)£ cup sugar. 

% teaspoonful salt. 

J£ teaspoonful soda. # 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 



1 saltspoonful* cinnamon or nut- 
meg. 

1 egg. 

Milk enough to moisten to a stiff 
dough. 



The Boston Cook Book. 



105 



Doughnuts, No. 3. 



legg. 

1 cup sHgar. 

1 tablespoonf ul melted butter. 

1 cup milk. 

% teaspoonf ul salt 



% teaspoonf ul soda. 
1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
1 saltspoonf ul cinnamon. 
Flour enough to roll out 



Raised. Doughnuts. 



1 pint risen milk bread dough. 

1 cup sugar. 

2 eggs. 



1 tablespoonf ul melted butter. 

Spice to taste. 

Flour enough to roll out 



These are more wholesome than thosQ/made with soda. 



Crullers. (4. W.) 



% saltspoonf ul cinnamon or mace. 
% saltspoonf ul salt. 
Flour enough to roll out. 



1 tablespoonf ul melted }; utter. 

2 heaping tablespoonf uls sugar. 
1 egg, yolk and white beaten sep- 
arately. 

Roll the dough one fourth of an inch thick. Cut in 
rectangular pieces, two and a half by three and a half 
inches ; then make five in- 
cisions lengthwise, cutting 
to within one third of an 



, 


 






• 





Fig. 6. Cruller. 




Fro. 6. Cruller after Folding. 



inch at each end Take up every other strip, fold each 
strip together slightly in the middle, and drop them into 
hot fat. 



106 The Boston Cook Book. 



Wonders, or Cheats. 

Beat one egg; add one salispoonful of sat and enough 
flour to make a very stiff batter. Roll oat as thin as a 
wafer, cut with large round cutter, and fry one minute in 
hot fat. Serve with honey or sjrup, or with cream and 
Jelly, or any delicate pudding sauce. 

Henriettas. 

1 egg, yolk and white beaten sep- 1 1 saltspoonfol baking-powder. 

arately. % saltspoonfol cinnamon. 

X cup cream. i teaspoon! ul wine or brandy. 

1 saltspoonf ul salt. Flour enough to roll out. 

Roll as thin as a wafer, and cut with a pastry jagger 
Into small squares or diamonds. Fry in boiling lard. 
Drain, and sprinkle with powdered sugar. Or add less 
flour, make a thick, stiff batter instead of a dough, and 
press the batter through a pastry tube into boiling lard, 
making rings or any shape preferred. 

Cinci, or Rags. 

2 cup flour | % cup bo % watep 

1 88 It spoonful salt. | 1 e gg. 

Pour the boiling water gradually upon the flour and salt 
and stir to a smooth paste ; cool, add' the egg, and beat 
well. Press through a pastry tube into hot lard. Drain 
and sprinkle with sugar. ' 

Fritter Batter (for Oysters, Clams, or Fruit). 

Tolh of two eggs, beaten well ; add half a cup of milk or 
water, and one taUespoonful of olive oil, one saltspoonful of 
talt, and one cup of flour, or enough to make it almost a 
drop batter. When ready to use, add the whites of the 
eggs, beaten very stiff If intended for fruit, add a tea- 
spoonftd of mgar to the batter. If for clams, tripe, or meat, 



The Boston Cook Book. 107 

add one tablespoonful of lemon juice or vinegar. This bat- 
ter will keep several days. 

Oyster Fritters. — Boil the oysters till the liquor flows 
freely. Drain, strain the liquor, and use it to make a bat- 
ter, as in the preceding rule. Dip each oyster in the 
batter and fry until brown in hot fat. 

Clam Fritters. — Drain the clams, and chop the hard 
part. Use the liquor to make a fritter batter. Add the 
clams and fry by small spoonfuls in hot fat. Clams in the 
shell should be steamed and dressed. Drain, and dip each 
whole clam into the batter. If large and tough, chop the 
hard part, and use the same as raw clams. 

Apple Fritters. — Core and pare three or four apples, 
but do not break them. Cut them in slices one third of 
an inch thick, leaving the opening in the centre. Sprinkle 
with sugar , lemon, and spice. Dip each slice in the fritter 
batter and fry in hot fat Drain, and sprinkle with pow- 
dered sugar. 

Vegetables for fritters, such as celery, salsify, or parsnip, 
should be boiled till tender, then drained and cut into 
small pieces ; then stir them into the fritter batter. 



* y 



1 08 The Boston Cook Booh 



OATMEAL, INDIAN CORN, AND OTHER 
GRAINS USED AS FOOD, 

Oatmeal is highly nutritious, being richer in nitrogen 
thau any other grain ; but a£ it does not contain a tough, 
adhesive gluten, like wheat, it is not easily made into fer- 
mented bread. Its nitrogenous matter resembles casein 
more than gluten, and is called avenin (from avena, the 
oat) . It is used as a mush or porridge, eaten with sugar 
and milk. It is rich in food for muscle and brain, useful 
for children and laboring people, but irritating to many 
people whose digestive powers are weak. 

Groats, or Grits, are oats from which the outer husk and 
inner flinty cuticle are removed. 

Indian Corn is used in many forms. Some varieties 
which contain a large proportion of sugar, are eaten green 
from the cob as a vegetable. The whole grains, hulled, 
are eaten as samp ; broken grains of various sizes, as 
hominy ; the ground grains, as either coarse or fine meal. 
Meal grows musty very quickly when ground by the old 
process, owing to the moisture of the corn and the heat of 
the stones. In the new-process, or granulated, meal the 
corn is first dried for two years, then ground into coarse 
grains like sugar. Indian corn is also used in the form of 
a very fine powder, called cornstarch. Corn meal, when 
cooked, is best made into small loaves or cakes and eaten 
hot. It is rich in nitrogen, and contains more fat than 
the other grains. This causes it to attract the oxygen 
from the air, and spoil rapidly. It should be purchased 
in small quantities. It is better adapted to strong labor- 
ing people, as it is very heating for persons with weak 
digestion. 






The Boston Cook Book. 109 

Rye meal and flour are used, more especially in New 
England, in the form of bread and mush. Rye is sweeter 
than wheat, and makes a moist bread which can be kept 
for some time without becoming hard and unpalatable. 
Rye should be purchased in small quantities, kept in a 
cool, dry place, sifted and examined thoroughly before 
using. 

Barley is used in soups and sometimes in gruels. It 
cannot be made into good bread, as it has too little gluten. 
It is nutritious, being rich in phosphates. It contains 
starch and mucilage, and, in the form of gruel, makes a 
soothing drink in fevers. The husk is removed, the 
grains are ground and polished, and then it is termed pearl 
barley. 

Buckwheat has less flesh-forming, and more heat-giving 
elements than wheat. It is therefore suitable only whea 
used in cold weather and by those who labor hard or exer- 
cise freely. It is used principally in the form of griddle- 
cakes. 

Bice contains very little of the flesh-forming element. 
It has more starch and less fat than any other grain. It 
is cheap, and is largely used by people in very hot cli- 
mates. It should always be used with milk, eggs, or 
some fatty substance. 

Oatmeal Mush. 

One cup of B. B. oatmeal, and one teaspoonful of salt, to 
a scant quart of boiling water. Put the meal and salt in 
the top of the double boiler ; add the boiling water. Place 
the upper boiler on the stove, and boil rapidly eight or ten 
minutes, stirring occasionally with a fork. Then place it 
over the hot water, and cook from forty to sixty minutes if 
liked dry, from two to three hours if liked very soft. Re- 
move the cover just before serving, and stir with a fork to 
let the steam escape, to dry it off. Served with baked 
apples and sugar and cream. 

Oatmeal comes in three grades. B. 8. is the whole oat 
with the outer husk removed. It is less pasty than the 



no The Boston Cook Book. 

finer grades. The Scotch consider the coarse oatmeal the 
best, the finer kinds being only suitable for children and 
invalids. 

Oatmeal, rice, or any mush that contains much starch, 
is more easily digested if it is masticated, and mixed with 
the saliva. When eaten as a soft porridge and still fur- 
ther thinned with milk, if it be swallowed whole, the saliva 
has no chance to do its part, and the whole process of the 
digestion of the starch is left for the intestines. The meal 
should be thoroughly cooked, stiff, and dry, rather than 
thin. 

Hominy, cracked wheat, and granulated wheat are cooked 
in the same way, using only three cups of boiling water 
instead of one quart. 

The cracked wheat ma} 7 be poured into a mould wet with 
cold water, and when jellied eaten cold with sugar and 
cream. 

Whole wheat requires Jive cups of boiling water to one 
eup of wheat, and should cook six hours. 

Hasty Pudding, or Indian Meal Mush. 

Put one quart of water on to boil. Mix one pint of corn 
meal, one teaspoonfnl of salt, and one tablespoonful of flour 
with one pint of cold milk. Stir this gradually into the 
boiling water and boil half an hour, stirring often. Eat it 
hot, with milk, and only in cold winter weather. 

Fried Hasty Pudding. 

Cook as above and pour it into a brickloaf pan ; when 
cool, cut into three-quarter inch slices. Dip them in flour, 
and brown each side in hot fat in a frying-pan. Or dip 
in crumbs, egg, and again in crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 

Any of these mushes may be fried the same way. 
When eaten with bacon, they make a nice relish for 
breakfast. • 



The Boston Cook Book. m 



BEVERAGES. 



Tea. 

There are three varieties of the tea-plant ; both black 
and green tea can be prepared from them all. Green 
tea is made from young leaves steamed, roasted, and 
dried quickly oh copper plates. Black tea is made from 
leaves which have been exposed to the air ten or twelve 
hours before roasting. The action of the air upon the 
leaves during this long exposure causes the dark color. 
Green tea gives up less of its juices in drying, and this 
accounts for its energetic action on the nervous system. 

The tea-leaf contains the largest amount of nutritive 
matter of any plant used as human food, though only 
a small portion of it is extracted by our common method 
of making tea. There is a large proportion of casein in 
the leaves. Many of the savage tribes of Tartary boil the 
leaves with soda, and eat them with salt and butter. But 
in our method of using tea as a beverage merely, we use 
such a comparatively small quantity that the amount of 
nutriment is very little ; its chief value being the sense 
of warmth and comfort that it gives. It excites the brain 
to increased activity, and produces wakefulness ; hence it 
is useful to students and night- workers. It retards the 
action of the natural functions, causes less waste, and, to 
a certain extent, saves food. For this reason, when not 
used in excess, it is suited to poor people, whose supplies 
of substantial food are scanty ; and to old persons, whose 
powers of digestion and whose bodily substance have 
begun to fail. It should not be used early in the morning, 
as the body needs immediate nourishment in a larger 
quantity ; and it should at all times be taken moderately, 
both as to quantity and strength. 



112 The Boston Cook Book. 

The water should be freshly boiled. Scald and heat 
the teapot, which should be of earthen or chiua, never of 
tin. Allow one teaspoonful of tea for one cup of boiling 
water. Reduce the proportion of tea when several caps 
are required. Put the tea in a strainer, pour through it 
half a cup of boiling water to cleanse the grounds. Then 
put the tea in the teapot ; pour on the boiling water ; 
cover closely and place it where it will keep hot, but 
not boil, for five minutes. If cold or lukewarm water be 
used in making tea, the thein, or nitrogenous substance, 
will not be obtained. 

In boiling tea or allowing the leaves to- remain long in 
the tea, by repeated steeping, the fragrant aroma is wasted 
and the tannin is extracted, which may cause gastric dis- 
orders to those who drink it. Never make tea in a 
tin teapot, as the tannic acid acts upon the metal and 
produces a poisonous compound. 

A slice of hmon is a good substitute for milk in tea. 
The lemon prevents the headache and sleeplessness which 
the tea causes in some persons. 

A French chemist recommends grinding tea like coffee. 
It will yield nearly double the amount of its exhilarating 
quality. Also to put a lump of sugar into the teapot 
with the tea. 

Iced Tea, or Russian Tea. 

Make the tea by the first receipt, strain it from the 
grounds, and keep it cool. When ready to serve, put two 
cubes of block sugar in a glass, half Jill with broken tee, add 
a slice of lemon, and fill the glass with cold tea. 

Coffee. 

Coffee grows on small trees. Mocha, the best variety, 
is grown in Arabia. Other choice kinds come from Java, 
the West Indies, and South America. The fruit of the 
coffee tree is something like the cheny, and contains two 
seeds or beans. Bruising the fruit separates the berries, 



The Boston Cook Book. 113 

— 

which are then washed and dried. The raw berries are 
tough, difficult to grind, and have but little flavor. Coffee 
should be roasted and kept in air-tight cans, that the fine 
flavor may be perfectly developed and preserved. Coffee 
is more stimulating than tea, and, when taken very strong 
after a hearty meal, aids digestion. It should be made in 
such a way that the full strength and aroma are obtained, 
without developing the tannic acid. This is done by pour- 
ing boiling water upon the coffee and keeping it in a 
closely covered vessel just below the boiling-point, or 
boiling not longer than five minutes. If allowed to boil 
longer, or left uncovered, the volatile oil which forms the 
fragrant aroma is dissipated, and the tannic acid extracted. 
This acid, when combined with cream or milk, forms a 
leathery, indigestible compound which irritates the internal 
membranes. 

The proportion of one third Mocha and two thirds Java 
coffee is agreeable to most people. Many prefer to roast 
and grind the coffee for themselves ; but in coffee-houses 
the arrangements for roasting are now so complete, that it 
is well for small families to buy coffee already roasted, 
and to grind it as needed, or buy it ground in a small 
quantity. 

The coffee-pot should be of granite ware or porcelain, 
and kept scrupulously clean, cleansing the spout as well 
as the pot every time it is used. A brownish deposit is 
soon formed on the inside of the pot, if the coffee be 
allowed to stand in it long, or if it be not often scoured. 
Many a cup of ill-flavored coffee is owing to its having 
been made in an unclean pot. 

The proportions are, one heaping tablespoonful of coffee 
to one cup of boiling water, reducing the proportion 
slightly when several cups are required. Half a cup of 
ground coffee is enough for one quart of water, and will 
make sufficient for five people. It takes a greater pro- 
portion of coffee and water, and it is more difficult to 
make just enough for one person than for more, as the 
last coffee poured out is not as clear as the first. The 

8 



H4 The Boston Cook Booh 

old notion of allowing extra for the pot is not without 
reason. 

Fish glue or inferior isinglass, which can be purchased 
at a druggist's, is a cheap and convenient article to use in 
clearing coffee. Egg shells should be saved and used for 
the same purpose. Wipe the eggs as soon as they come 
from the market, and then the shells may all be used. Two 
or three shells contain albumen sufficient to clear a quart 
of coffee. 

Various modifications of the biggin, or French coffee-pot, 
are in use, and the coffee made in them is excellent, as 
none of the aroma is wasted. The}' are generally quite 
expensive, and some soon get out of order, if not handled 
carefully. The spout of the coffee-pot should be closed 
with a cork, or a thimble fitted for that purpose, or a piece 
of soft brown paper twisted so as to form a stopper. This 
prevents the escape of the steam and aroma. Coffee, if 
allowed to boil, should stand at least ten minutes after 
boiling, to give it time to settle and become clear. 

Boasting Coffee. 

Put one pound of raw coffee in a small frying-pan. Place 
it on the stove, and shake and stir occasionally for fifteen 
minutes, or till yellow. Then cover it, and increase the 
heat, and shake till the kernels are all a deep cinnamon or 
chestnut color, and have an oily appearance. Be careful 
that none are burned. Keep it covered, and when still 
warm, not hot, add one egg and its shell. Beat until every 
kernel is coated with the egg. The egg will dry quickly. 
It helps to preserve the flavor, is the cheapest form in 
which to use egg for clearing, and does not interfere with 
the grinding of the coffee. 

Coffee should be kept in air-tight tin cans, and ground 
only as required. The finer it is ground, the stronger will 
be the extract. 



The Boston Cook Book 115 



Coffee (Common Coffee-Pot). 



1 heaping tablesp. ground coffee. 
1 square inch isinglass, or 



1 egg shell. 

1 cup freshly boiling water. 



Scald the coffee-pot. Put in the coffee and isinglass. 
Add the boiling water. Cover the spout, and boil just five 
minutes. Stir it well. Set the pot on the back of the 
stove, where it will keep hot, but not boil. Add half a cup of 
cold water. Pour out a little of the coffee and pour it back 
again to clear the grounds from the spout. Let it stand 
at least ten minutes. If served in the pot, be careful not 
to roil the coffee by shaking the pot or by careless pour- 
ing. A tablespoonful of caramel mixed with the ground 
coffee gives additional flavor and color. 

Steamed Coffee. 

The same proportions as in the preceding rule. Place 
the coffee-pot in a kettle of boiling water, or make the 
coffee in a granite double boiler kept expressly for that 
purpose, and steam twenty minutes. Pour it from the 
grounds into a hot coffee-pot for serving. 

Coffee made with Cold Water. — Put the required propor- 
tion of cold water and coffee into a china or granite coffee- 
pot, cover closely, and let it stand over night. In the 
morning let it just come to the boiling-point, and serve at 
once. It needs no straining nor clearing. (Miss Devereux.) 

Coffee made with an Egg. 

One egg is sufficient to clear one cup of ground coffee. If 
a smaller quantfy be desired, half an egg may be used, as, 
if fresh, the remainder will keep till the next day. Or the 
whole egg may be beaten with the ground coffee, and such 
portion of it used as is needed, keeping the remainder 
closely covered. 

To make the coffee, add half a cup of cold water to the 
portion of egg to be used and one third of a cup of coffee. 



1 1 6 The Boston Cook Book. 

Beat well ; put it in the hot coffee-pot ; add one pint of 
boiling water and boil five minutes. Keep it hot, but not 
boiling, for ten minutes. Pour out a little and pour it 
back to clear the spout. 

Filtered Coffee. 

This is made in a French biggin, or anj r double coffee- 
pot fitted with one or more strainers. The coffee, which 
is ground very fine, is placed in the strainer ; this is put 
into the receptacle for holding the made coffee, the boiling 
water is poured in and allowed to drip slowly through the 
coffee. If there be onty two parts to it, the coffee-pot 
should stand where the coffee will keep hot. but not boil. 
Many of the coffee-pots made on this principle are placed 
in another vessel containing boiling water. 

, To serve Coffee. 

Or earn, scalded milk, and block sugar are essential to good 
breakfast coffee. Put in one tablespoonful of cream and two 
tablespoonfuls of milk, and fill the cup three fourths full. 
Never fill to overflowing. Let each person add the sugar 
desired, unless you know the individual tastes of the fam- 
ily. The milk should be just hot, but never boiled, as 
boiled milk gives a verj* unpleasant flavor. 

After-dinner coffee, or black coffee, is made bj' either of 
the receipts previously given, using double the proportion 
of coffee : two heaping tablespoonfuls of coffee to one cup of 
water. It should be very strong and perfectly clear ; served 
in small cups, with block sugar if desired, but not with 
cream or milk, as the milk counteracts the purpose for 
which the coffee is taken. 

The addition of three tablespoonfuls of whipped cream to a 
cup of coffee gives Vienna Coffee. An equal amount of 
boiled milk and filtered coffee is called Cafe au Lait. 

Cocoa and Chocolate. 

Cocoa is the fruit of a small tree which grows in Mexico, 
Central America, and the West Indies. The fruit is shaped 



The Boston Cook Book. 117 

like a large, thick cucumber, and contains from six to 
thirty beans. The beans are roasted, like coffee. The 
husks or shells are taken off, and used in that form as 
cocoa shells. The}- need longer boiling, and are preferred 
by many persons with weak digestion. They are some- 
times ground with the bean, making an inferior article of 
cocoa. Starch is also used to adulterate cocoa. The best 
cocoa is made from the whole bean after the husk is re- 
moved. Cocoa -nibs are the beans broken instead of 
ground. 

Chocolate is the finely ground powder from the kernels 
mixed to a stiff paste with sugar, and sometimes flavored 
with vanilla. It is the most nutritious and convenient form 
of cocoa ; a small cake of it will satisfy hunger. It is a 
very good lunch for travellers. If the oily scum which 
forms on the surface after boiling be removed, it is less 
indigestible. 

Chocolate does not produce the injurious effects which 
render tea and coffee objectionable, -and is far better for 
children and working-people. 

Cocoa. 

Put half a cup of broken cocoa into a pot with two quarts 
of water. Boil gently two hours, until reduced to one 
quart ; or use half cocoa and half shells. Serve with sugar 
and cream, or scalded milk. It is more digestible if allowed 
to cool and the globules of fat removed, then reheated. 

Prepared Cocoa. 

This ground cocoa comes in many forms, and some are 
recommended to be prepared at the table ; but all kinds 
are better boiled one minute in a very little water, the same 
as chocolate, and thinned with hot milk. 

Shells. 

Steep one cup of shells in one quart of boiling water three 
or four hours, adding more hot water as it boils away. 
Strain, and serve with hot milk, or cream and sugar. 



u-8 The Boston Cook Book. 



Chocolate. 

Pat one square of Baker's chocolate, two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, two tablespoonfuls of hot water, and a pinch of salt in 
a small saucepan, and boil until smooth ; stir constantly ; 
add gradually one pint of boiling water, and when ready to 
serve add one pint of hot milk* Use all milk and two squares 
of chocolate, if liked richer ; or thicken with one teaspoon- 
ful of cornstarch wet in a little cold water, and boil five min- 
utes before adding the milk. 

German, or Sweetened Vanilla Chocolate. 

Melt two sticks of chocolate in two or three tablespoonfuls of 
hot water. Stir to a smooth paste ; add gradually one pint 
of hot milk and stir or mill it five minutes. Serve in cups 
three quarters full with two or three tablespoonfuls of whipped 
cream on the top. Sweeten and flavor the cream before 
whipping. 



The Boston Cook Book. 119 



SOUP. 

Nothing can be easier than to make a good soup if 
one only knows how and has the will to do it ; and if one 
will, it is easy to know how. Considerations of econ- 
omy and healthfulness make it the duty of eve^ house- 
keeper to thoroughly inform herself on the few essential 
points in soup-making. When these are learned it will 
be as simple as anj T other duty. 

As soups are not made from nothing, a supply of mate- 
rials should always be kept on hand, such as dried sweet 
herbs (which may be purchased at any city market for a 
trifle ; twenty-five cents' worth will last a year or more) ; 
also whole, as well as ground spices; and, more particu- 
larly, fresh vegetables, — onions, carrots* and turnips. If 
we had access to the French market, we could buy the 
smallest amount whenever it might be desired ; but as 
only a few marketmen in America will sell a single onion 
or a single carrot, it is well for those who cannot cultivate 
for themselves to purchase in large quantities. They 
may be kept in a cool place by covering with clean sand. 
Parsley may be grown in the house if you have a sunny 
window; and we can all have salt and pepper. Now, 
haviDg these seasoning materials always at hand, 3-011 
may easily find other material in the store-room, or from 
the day's supply of fresh meat, fish, etc., without buying 
expressly for soup ; that is, if 3011, instead of the market- 
man, have the bones and trimmings. 

Every pantry should have a " catch all." It is vastly 
more important there than in the sewing-room or on the 
toilet* table. The coal-hod, refuse pail, and sink catch aU 
in man}' households. One or two large bowls — not tin, 
but deep earthen dishes, provided they are sw^et and do 



120 The Boston Cook Book. 



not leak — will better answer the purpose. After breakfast 
or dinner, do not put away the remnants of steaks or 
roasts on the platters, but look them over and put by 
themselves any pieces that can be used again, either cold 
or in what are called made dishes. Then put all the bones, 
trimmings, fat, gristle, and everything, especially the 
platter gravy, which usually flavors the dish-water, intc 
the " catch all." If } r ou have just one bone from a steak 
or chop, if it be not burned it is worth saving, and in cool 
weather will keep till you have another. If there be a 
tablespoonful of any vegetables, a stalk of celery, an egg^ 
baked apple, or a bit of macaroni, put them away neatly. 
You will find a use for them. If } t ou have boiled a fresh 
tongue, a fowl, a leg of lamb, or a cup of rice, plan to 
make a soup also, and thus save the water. This economy 
may be carried to the extreme of saving the water in which 
cabbages, beans, or potatoes have been boiled, or of keep- 
ing a fire several hours in a hot day only to save a few 
cents' worth of bone, or of spoiling all the soup by adding 
a spoonful of turnip already sour ; but as a rule we err in 
the opposite practice. 

Soups are made from meat, fish, and vegetables, with 
water or milk ; seasoned or flavored with any or every 
kind of vegetable, sweet herbs, spices, curry powder, 
catchups, aromatic sauces, and with some kinds of fruit. 
They are served thin and clear, or thickened with vegeta- 
bles or cereals, and with or without meat 

Soups are classified and named in various wa}'s, accord- 
ing to material, color, quality, etc. Soups with stock have 
meat as the basis. Soups without stock are made of fish, 
vegetables, and milk. They are sometimes called soup 
maigre. Soups are named from the principal ingredient, 
or an imitation of the same, as Potato, Onion, Beef, 
Mutton, Chicken, Gumbo, Macaroni, Okra, Ox- tail, Gib- 
let, Cock-a-leekie, Lobster, Mock Turtle, Mock Bisque, 
etc. ; or from the color, as Clear, or Amber, Brown, and 
White ; or from the consistency, as Thin soups and Purees ; 
or from the qualit}*, as simple Broths, Bouillon, and Con- 



J 



The Boston Cook Book. 121 

soiume* ; or from the season of the year, as Julienne ; 
or from the people who use them, as Scotch Broth, French 
Pot-aa-feu, Indian Mullagatawney ; or from the name of 
the makers, or in any way one's fancy and invention may 
suggest. But from the scores, yes, hundreds of receipts 
in the cook-books, which seem so bewildering to the be- 
ginner, a few simple rules may be deduced which will 
make the process of soup-making intelligible ; and when 
once the foundation is laid, you may build and enlarge as 
you choose. 

Do not be discouraged because you have not all the 
dozen or more ingredients mentioned in most receipts. 
You will find many of them may be omitted with a per- 
fectly satisfactory result. Much depends upon what is 
omitted, though, as Potage a la Reine without chicken, or 
Julienne without vegetables, or Mullagatawney without 
curry powder, would disappoint those who think only 
of the name ; but, called by any other name, you would 
find them very good soups. 

Soups with Stock. 

Soups made with stock include all the varieties made 
from beef, veal, mutton, and poultry. Perhaps a glance 
at the meaning of the word stock will make clear its appli- 
cation to cooker}'. Stock is from the Anglo-Saxon stician, 
to stick, and the idea of fixedness is expressed in all its 
forms. Stock in trade or business means the money or 
material laid by, or stored, stocked, fixed, as a source of 
supply, read}- for use at any time; and in the business 
of soup-making, stock is the material stored or prepared 
in such a way that it maj' be kept or fixed for use in 
making different kinds of meat soup ; or, more definitely, 
it is a liquid containing the juices and soluble parts of 
meat, bone, and vegetables, which have been extracted 
by proper cooking. This liquid is more or less solid when 
cold, according to the gelatinous nature of the ingredients. 
It varies greatly in quality, owing to the manner in which 
it is prepared and the material used. 



122 The Boston Cook Book. 

Stock is usually made from the cheaper, inferior parts 
of meat, which vield the most nutriment when cooked in 
this way ; also from odds and ends of cooked meat, 
which perhaps could not be used otherwise. The chief 
object in making stock is to obtain in the quickest manner 
the largest possible amount of nutriment from the cheap* 
est parts of meat, and after getting it to keep and use it. 
This is best accomplished by observing the following 
rules : — • 

First Cut the meat into small pieces, and soak them 
in cold water before heating, that every atom df nourish- 
ment may be extracted. Cold water draws out and 
dissolves the meat juices, while hot water hardens the 
albumen on the outside of the meat and prevents the 
juices from escaping into the liquid. 

Second. Use a careful selection and proportion of meat, 
bone, and water, and season judiciously, so that no one 
flavor will predominate. 

Third. Use a steam-tight kettle, and s>'mmer, — not boil 
the material rapidly, — that the juices may be retained in 
the water, and not wasted by evaporation. 

Fourth. Make stock the day before using, if possible, 
that the fat may be more easily removed ; but do not give 
up making it simply from u lack of time," for it can be 
made quickly. 

A soup digester is the proper vessel for making stock. 
This is a porcelain-lined iron kettle with a bale, and hav- 
ing a cover fitting closely into a groove, so that no steam 
can escape except from the valve in the top of the cover, 
which at once indicates when the water is boiling rapidly. 
One holding six quarts, and costing three dollars, is a con- 
venient size for a small family. If you cannot afford a 
digester, get a granite ironware kettle, with a tightly fit- 
ting cover. Plain ironware will do if j T on have nothing 
better ; but it rusts easily, and, if tin-lined, the tin melts 
in careless usage. 

The meats used in making stock should contain gelatine^ 
osmazome, and a small amount of fat. 



The Boston Cook Book. 123 



Gelatine is found in the bones, skin, tendinous and gristl} 
portions of flesh, especially in veal. It is this which causes 
the stock to become a jelly. But a soup which forms a 
jell}, or is made principally from bones, is not the most 
nutritious. The jelly of bones and sinews boiled into soup 
can furnish only jelly for our bones and sinews. It is use- 
ful in convalescence, for then the portions of the sj-stem in 
which gelatine is needed have been wasted ; but in other 
cases, though easily digested, it is unwholesome, for it 
loads the blood with disturbing products. It is entirely 
destitute of flavor, and therefore we need with it meat con- 
taining osmazome. 

Osmazome is that part of meat which gives to each of the 
various kinds its distinctive flavor. It is more abundant 
in brown than in white meats, and in the meat of old 
rather than in that of young animals. It is found largely 
in lean beef, mutton, and fowls. Osmazome is more highly 
developed in roasted meats; therefore all the bones and 
remnants of roasts which cannot be utilized in entrees, 
should be put into the soup-kettle. 

We need also the alkaline and add salts found in the 
blood and juices of the flesh ; therefore a small portion of 
raw j lean meat should form a part of all stock. 

Fat is necessary, as an element of perfect food, and 
should always be used in making stock. It adds to the 
flavor, and all that is not absorbed in the stock may be re- 
moved when cold. The marrow, found in the shin bone, 
is the best form of fat. The browned fat of roast beef 
gives a fine flavor, and occasionally a bit of ham or bacon 
may be used. But all mutton fat should be avoided, be- 
cause of its rankness. 

These four kinds of meat — beef, mutton, veal, and poul- 
try — may be used together or separate^. It is better to 
use mutton, if in a large quautity, b} r itself, as the flavor 
is disagreeable to many. After having extracted all the 
nutriment from the meat in its juices, fat, albumen, and 
flavor, do not attempt to make further use of the worthless 
residue of muscular fibre. It is not only harmful, but dry, 



124 The Boston Cook Book. 



tasteless, and utterly useless as food. It needs the addi- 
tion of many other materials to make it palatable even, 
and it is cheaper to get the fibrine we need from meat 
cooked in other ways, directions for which will be given 
under Boiling Meats and Stews. Therefore do not hesi- 
tate, as a matter of econonry, to throw away this useless 
meat. 

When fresh meat is bought expressly for stock, select p 
piece from the shin or lower part of the round of beef or 
veal. This has bone with marrow, a large proportion ot 
gelatine, more or less osmazome, according to the amount 
of flesh, and costs less than other parts. In mutton, pieces 
from the neck and forequarter are the best. Fowls are 
better than chickens. With this fresh meat may be used 
the bones and trimmings from steak or chops, and the 
flank ends of roasting pieces, which yield more nutriment 
if added to the stock pot before being cooked. Add also 
any remnants of roasted or broiled meat, bone, fat, gristle, 
anything except mutton fat. In families where large roasts 
of beef and poultry are often used, there should be mate- 
rial enough for stock, withput bujdng new meat, except lor 
the nicest of clear soups, which the French call Consomme. 

The proportions of bone and meat should be about equal 
by weight. When ready to begin the stock, wipe the fresh 
meat with a clean cloth wet in cold water. Never put 
the meat in a pan of cold water to soak. It takes out all 
the juices that you wish to save. Wipe before cutting. The 
inside is clean. But rinse the cloth and scrub the outside 
thoroughly. Cut away the parts that are tainted or dis- 
colored by rusty meat-hooks, etc. Examine all the odds 
and ends of cooked meat, and remove any smoked or 
burned parts from ham or broiled meat, also the stuffing 
and skin from roast poultry, if you wish to have the stock 
clear. Scrape the meat clean from the bones and cut into 
inch pieces. Break or saw the bones as small as you con- 
veniently can. Remove the marrow (a soft, fatty sub- 
stance, which you will find in the hollow of the bones) and 
put it in the soup kettle to keep the bones from sticking. 



The Boston Cook Book. 125 



Pat in the bones and pack the meat around them. Place 
your kettle on the back of the range before adding the 
water, so that there need be no heavy weight to lift. Allow 
one quart of fresh cold water to every pound of meat and 
bone ; one fourth less water if your stock is to be made 
altogether of cooked meats, or if j ? ou use a digester. Cover 
the kettle, and after the water is quite red, and the juices 
are well drawn out, draw the kettle forward and let it heat 
slowly, and simmer, or boil slowly, but never boil hard. 

The scum, which soon rises on the surface, is the albu- 
men and juices of the meat which have been drawn out 
and mixed with the cold water. They coagulate, or har- 
den, as the water heats, and, being lighter than the water, 
'rise to the surface in the form of s*cum. It has usually 
been considered essential, in making soup, to remove every 
particle of this scum ; but the practice is wholly unnecessary 
and wasteful. We learn, in the article on Boiling, the 
three distinct purposes and methods of cooking meat in 
water ; and yet in skimming a soup we act directly con- 
trary to the general principle there explained. If the kettle 
be clean, the water pure, and the meat well cleansed from 
any impurities on its outer surface, what can there be in 
the meat not suitable to eat, any more than in roast beef, 
or steak, or boiled mutton ? In making beef tea we are 
directed by the highest scientific authorities to remove the 
fat, cut the meat small, soak it in cold water, heat gradu- 
ally, and never skim, as the scum or thickened material in 
the water is the very thing desired. Soup is only another 
form of beef tea, and the fat which is objectionable can 
better be removed when the stock is cold. These juices 
and soluble parts of the meat should be retained ; they 
increase, rather than diminish, the flavor, and all the sedi 
ment which is fine enough to go through the strainer 
should be used. In any thickened soup it is so mingled 
with the other ingredients as not to be unpleasant to the 
eye. And for those who wish clear soups, which are not 
as nutritious, this sediment can easily be removed in the 
clearing. 



126 The Boston Cook Book. 



In a criticism which so decidedly rejects a prevailing 
custom, it may be well to remark that the method of pre- 
paring soups which is recommended in the preceding 
paragraph has been successfully proved in the Boston 
Cooking School for the last three years. The French, who 
regard skimming as very important in making their Pot- 
cm- feu, remove the meat as soon as tender, and serve it as 
bouilli, or boiled beef. As it has not been cut in small 
pieces, and is heated quickly, some of the juices are re- 
tained in the meat, and it is nourishing and palatable. 
Their Pot-au-feu is more like our beef stew than like soup 
stock. 

In the preparation of the stock, the next step is to add 
the seasoning, which may be used in these proportions : 
For every quart of water, one even teaspoonful of salt, two 
peppercorns or half a saltspoonful of ground pepper, two 
cloves, two allspice berries, one fourth of a saltspoonful of 
celery seed or a bit of celery root^ a sprig of parsley, a 
teaspoonful of mixed herbs, and a tahUspoonful of each 
vegetable. 

Herbs and spices are better whole than ground, as they 
may be more readily removed by straining. The French 
cooks use a bouquet of herbs, made with two leaves or 
blossoms of each herb wrapped in a sprig of parsley and 
tied securely so that it may be easily removed. A con- 
venient and economical way is to strip off the leaves and 
blossoms, break the stalks in tiny pieces, mix them, and 
keep in a tin box. Use sage, summer savory, thyme, marjo- 
ram, and bay leaves: a teaspoonful of the mixture (not 
of each herb) for every quart. The vegetables generally 
used are onion, carrot, turnip, and celery. It is better to 
omit them entirely in warm weather, or if you wish to 
keep the stock more than a week, as the vegetable juices 
ferment quickly and sour the stock. 

Wash, scrape, or pare the vegetables; cut them into 
small pieces for convenience in measuring, as one onion 
or one slice of carrot is rather indefinite. Keep them 
in cold water until the juices are drawn from the meat 



The Boston Cook Book. 127 

When old or strong, they may be blanched or parboiled 
first 

Onions, potatoes, and cabbage should always be scalded 
to draw out the indigestible qualities. Some object to the 
use of onions, particularly on account of the disagreeable 
odor ; but when added with the other seasoning material, 
they are so completely absorbed in the stock that no 
trace of their presence can be detected. All or part of the 
vegetables may be fried first, if you like. One or two 
sour apples give a pleasant flavor to stock. Wines or 
catchups should be added just before serving, as boiling 
dissipates the flavor. 

If you wish to have a dark brown stock, reserve part of 
the lean meat to brown with the onions. Fry the onions 
in a little fat, and when very brown remove them, to pre- 
vent burning, and brown the meat in the same fat. Add 
the onions and meat to the stock. Take a little water 
from the stock, and wash off all the browned glaze ad- 
hering to the frying-pan, as this is the best part. A table- 
spoonful of browned sugar or caramel (see page 134), 
which should always be kept on hand, will also give a 
rich dark color. After the seasoning is placed in the 
mixture, put the kettle where it will keep at a gentle, 
steady simmering. Do not let it boil furiously one half- 
hour and not at all the next, but find the place on the 
range where it will keep at just the right temperature, and 
then, if you have a steady fire, it will need no further 
attention until ready to strain. It is hot enough if the 
water just bubbles on one side of the kettle. 

When the stock has simmered till the meat is in rags 
and the bones clean, strain at once. Do not let it stand, 
if in an iron kettle. If you have used a digester or steam- 
tight kettle, the water will not have lessened much. If 
boiled in an ordinary kettle, it will be reduced about one 
half by evaporation, and may be diluted when ready for 
the table. Strain in this way. Place a stone jar beside 
your kettle. It should be of a size suited to the amount 
of stock. Put a colander over the jar (it should fit inside 



1 



128 The Boston Cook Book. 

it), and a strainer cloth over the colander. Then, with 
a ladle or dipper, dip the contents of the kettle and pour 
into the strainer. Never try to lift the kettle and pour 
it out, unless you have more strength and skill than most 
beginners. When you have only a pint left, you may try 
the pouring. Do not squeeze the cloth, but let the con- 
tents drain ten or fifteen minutes, then throw the scraps 
awaj*. Remember that j'ou have extracted all the nutri- 
ment, and have it in the water ; so do not expect to have 
any virtue in the meat or vegetables. Set the jar in a 
cool place, uncovered, but not in the ice chest while hot. 
It keeps better to cool quickly. In cold weather, and if 
j t ou have used a large proportion of bone, the stock will 
harden like jelly, with a cake of solid fat on the top. This 
fat, by excluding the air, helps to keep the stock, and 
should not be removed until the stock is needed. In 
winter stock will keep a week, and longer, if made without 
vegetables. It should be heated occasionally to the boil- 
ing-point, or after taking off anj r portion of it, that what 
remains may harden again in an unbroken form. A little 
fresh charcoal tied in a bag and boiled with the stock is 
said to restore it when only slightly, changed. 

In very warm weather, make onty enough for each day, 
as sometimes it spoils in one night. If you wish to make 
a soup while the stock is still hot, put what portion j'ou 
may need into a shallow pan and place the pan in ice 
water, with a larger pan of ice water over it. This will 
soon harden the fat ; or if you have not time to do this, 
take off what fat you can with a spoon, and wipe off the 
remainder with soft tissue paper, or strain several times 
through a fine napkin. The grease will adhere to the 
napkin, which should be rinsed in cold water. That 
hardens the fat. Or you may let the soup boil gently, 
and nearly all can be taken off. 

To remove the fat after the stock has jellied, run a knife 
around between the cake of fat and the jar. If the fat be 
solid, it will sometimes come off whole ; but if soft, take 
off all you can without cutting into the jelly, then wring 



The Boston Cook Book. 129 

a cloth out of veiy hot water, and wipe the stock. The 
hot cloth will absorb the fat readily. Remember, if the 
soup is to be served clear, not a pin head of fat must be 
left ; but if it is to be thickened with any starchy material, 
this will absorb what cannot be removed with a spoon. 
This fat must be saved and clarified according to direc- 
tions on page 18. 

With this stock for a foundation, you may make an 
endless variety of soups, each soup taking its name from 
the principal solid ingredient ; and it is equally valuable to 
use, instead of water, in making gravies or sauces. No 
matter how little you have, one cupful is worth more than 
it costs to make it, as an addition to fricassees and braised 
meats. This stock, if properly made and strained, will be 
sufficiently clear for any common soups. But for clear 
sparkling soups and aspic jelly, it must be clarified with the 
white of an egg. 

To clear Soup Stock. 

Remove the fat, and allow the white and shell of one egg 
for every quart of stock. If you wish to flavor the stock 
more highly, add half a saltspoonful of celery seed and the 
thinnest possible shavings from the rind of half a lemon. 
Add also the lemon juice, and more salt and pepper if 
needed. Mix celery seed, lemon, egg, etc. with the cold 
stock, and beat it well. If the stock be hot when the egg 
is a/lded, the egg will harden before it has done its work. 
This is a point where many fail. Set it over the fire and 
stir it all the time, until it is hot, to keep the egg from 
settling. Then leave it, and let it boil ten minutes. By 
this time a thick scum will have formed, and as it breaks 
the liquid will be clear and sparkling, like wine, and darker 
than before. Draw it back on the stove, and add half a 
cup of cold water. Let it stand ten minutes, while you 
get your jar, colander, and fine napkin ready for straining. 
Wring your napkin out of hot water, and lay it over the 
colander. Put the finest wire strainer on the napkin and 
then pour it all through. This strainer will catch the scum 

9 



130 The Boston Cook Book* 

and shells which would otherwise clog the napkin. Let it 
take its own time to drain ; but if you must hasten it, raise 
the napkin first at one corner, and then at another, and let 
the liquid run down to a clean place. This is better than 
squeezing. This is all ready to serve as a clear soup by 
simply heating to the boiling-point. Serve with it, in the 
tureen, thin slices of lemon, a glass of sherry, yolks of 
hard-boiled eggs, or delicate flavored force-meat balls ; or 
put on each plate a poached egg, or a spoonful of grated 
Parmesan cheese. 

In making soups from this stock, bear this fact in mind : 
Do not waste the stock by. boiling in it any material 
which requires long boiling. Vegetables, rice, sago, tapi- 
oca, macaroni, vermicelli, etc., should be cooked separately 
and then added to the stock, which should be brought to 
the boiling-point. 

The following are some of the principal varieties. 
These soups are all supposed to have no meat served 
with them. The broth is clear and thin, and every particle 
of vegetable or cereal should be distinct, except in the 
soups called Mixed Vegetable and Tomato. 

Concise rules for Common Brown Stock and Consomme* 
are given for the benefit of those who do not need to read 
all the preliminary remarks. 

Brown Soup Stock. 



6 pounds hind shin of beef. 

6 quarts cold water. 

10 whole cloves. 

10 whole peppercorns. 

Bouquet of sweet herbs. 

1 large tablespoonf ul salt. 



3 small onions. 
1 carrot. 

1 turnip. 

2 stalks celery. 
2 sprigs parsley. 



Wipe and cut the meat and bones into small pieces. 
Put the marrow, bones, half of the meat, and the cold 
water into the kettle. Soak half an hour before heating. 
Add spices and herbs. Brown the onions and the remain- 
der of the meat, and add them to the stock ; add the veg- 
etables cut fine. Simmer six or seven hours and strain. 



The Boston Cook Book. 131 



Bouillon. 



4 pounds beef, from the middle of 

the round. 
2 pounds bone. / 

2 quarts cold water. 



1 tablespoonfnl salt. 

4 peppercorns. 

4 cloves. 

1 tablespoonful mixed herbs. 



Wipe and cut the meat and bones into small pieces; 
add the water, and heat slowly ; add the seasoning, and 
simmer five hours. Boil down to three pints ; strain, 
remove the fat, and season with salt and pepper. Serve 
in cups at luncheons, evening companies, etc. Boil one 
onion, half a carrot, and half a turnip with it if you like. 

dear, or Amber Soup, or Consomme'. 1 . 



4 pounds shin of beef. 

4 pounds knuckle of veal, or 

3 pounds fowl. 

4 quarts cold water. 

2 ounces lean ham or bacon. 

6 cloves. 

6 peppercorns. 

Bouquet of herbs. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 



3 onions. 
1 carrot. 

1 turnip. 

2 stalks celery. 

2 sprigs parsley. 

3 eggs, whites and shells. 
1 saltspoonf ul celery seed. 
Kind and juice of one lemon. 



Wipe and cut the meat and bones into small pieces. 
Put the marrow, bones, and part of the meat in the kettle 
with four quarts of cold water. Heat slowly ; cut the 
onions and vegetables fine, and fry them in the ham fat or 
in drippings ; then brown the remainder of the meat. Add 
onions, meat, herbs, spices, and vegetables. Simmer until 
the meat is in rags; it will take seven or eight hours. 
Strain, and when cold remove the fat ; add the whites and 
shells of the eggs, celery seed, lemon, and salt and pepper 
if needed. When well mixed, heat it, and boil ten min- 
utes. Strain through the finest strainer, and heat again 
to the boiling-point before serving. Serve clear, or with 
wine or lemon. Clear soup should be perfectly transpar- 
ent, of a light brown or straw color. 

1 Consommd means "consumed, boiled to rags." 



132 The Boston Cook Book. 



Left-over Soup. 



Bones and trimmings from a 6- 

pound roast of beef. 
2 cold mutton-chops. 
The flank end of a sirloin steak, 

uncooked. 
4 quarts cold water. 
1 tablespoonf ul salt. 



4 cloves. 

4 peppercorns. 

1 cold fried egg. 

2 baked apples. 

1 cup cold boiled onions. 

2 stalks celery. 

1 tablespoonf ul mixed herbs. 



Cut up the meat and bones, and put them in the kettle 
with the cold water. Add all the other ingredients, and 
simmer till the bones are clean, the meat is in rags, and 
the water reduced one half. Strain, and the next morning 
remove the fat; when read}' to serve, heat the stock to 
the boiling-point ; warm with it one cup of cold macaroni 
or tomatoes left from yesterday's dinner. Add more sea- 
soning if needed. 

Julienne Soup. 



1 quart stock. 

1 pint mixed vegetables. 



% teaspoonfui salt. 
3*2 saltspoonf ul pepper. 



Cut the celery into thin slices, the turnip into quarter- 
inch dice, and the carrot into three-quarters by one- 
eighth inch strips or straws, using only the orange part. 
Or cut carrot and turnip into quarter-inch slices, and 
then into fancy shapes with small vegetable cutters. 
Cover with boiling water, add half a teaspoonful of salt, 
and cook until soft, but not long enough to destroy their 
shapes. Let the quart of stock come to a boil ; add the 
vegetables, the water, and more salt if necessary. Serve 
hot. In spring and summer use asparagus, peas, and 
string beans. It is quite important that the vegetables 
should be small and of uniform thickness ; but if anj- 
require a longer time to cook, they should be cut into 
smaller pieces. 



The Boston Cook Book. 133 



Macaroni Soup. 



1 quart stock. 

3 or 4 sticks macaroni. 



1 tea8poonful salt. 

)*£ saltspoonf ul pepper. 



Cook the macaroni in boiling salted water, about half an 
hour, or until tender ; drain, pour cold water through it, 
to keep it from sticking together. Lay the sticks close 
together on a board, and divide them into eighth-inch 
pieces, making tiny rings, or cut them into half-inch 
pieces. There should be about a pint of macaroni for a 
quart of stock. Bring the stock to a boil ; add the maca- 
roni, the salt, and the pepper; then pour all into the 
tureen. 

Vermicelli Soup. 

1 quart stock. I 1 teaspoonf ul salt 

J£ cup vermicelli. | % saltspoonf ul pepper. 

The vermicelli may be broken or not, as you please. 
Cook about ten minutes in boiling salted water. Drain, 
put it in the tureen, and pour over it the boiling stock. 
Spaghetti and Italian Paste may be used in the same way. 

Bice, Tapioca, Sago, or Barley Soup. 



1 teaspoonful salt. 

% saltspoonf ul pepper. 



1 quart stock. 

2 tablespobnfuls either rice, bar- 
ley, tapioca, or sago. 

Wash the grains, and cook until tender in boiling salted 
water; then add them to the boiling stock. Serve with 
croutons. Barley should be soaked one hour, and boiled 
two hours or more. Vegetables and macaroni are better 
with beef stock ; and rice, tapioca, and barley with mutton 
or chicken stock. 

Tomato Soup with Stock. 



1 quart stock. 

1 teaspoonful sugar. 

1 saltspoonf ul pepper. 



1 can tomatoes. 
1 teaspoonful salt 



Stew the tomatoes until soft enough to strain. Rub all 
but the seeds through the strainer. Add the sugar, salt, 



The Boston Cook Book. 135 

of a dark brown color. Add one cup of boiling water; dim- 
mer ten minutes, and bottle when cool. This should always 
be kept on hand, as it is useful for many purposes. It 
gives a rich, dark color to soups, coffee, and jelly ; is more 
wholesome than browned butter in sauces, and is delicious 
as a flavoring in custards and pudding sauces. 

Glaze. 

Glaze is simply clear stock boiled down to one fourth of 
its original amount. Put two quarts of rich, strong stock 
into a saucepan, and boil it uncovered until reduced to 
one pint. It should have a gluey consistency, and will 
keep a month if put in a closely covered jar in a cool place. 
It is useful in browning meats which have not been colored 
by cooking, but which we wish to have the appearance of 
having been roasted or browned. 

Thickening for Soups. 

Soups are thickened with flour, cornstarch, or rice flour : 
one tablespoonful for a quart of soup, — heaping, if flour ; 
scant, if rice flour or cornstarch. Flour is the cheapest, 
but cornstarch gives a smoother consistency. Mix the 
flour with a very little cold water or milk until it is a smooth 
paste ; then add more liquid, until it can be poured easily 
into the boiling soup. Remember to boil the soup fifteen 
or twenty minutes after the thickening is added, that there 
may be no raw taste of the flour. Where butter and flour 
are used, the butter is rubbed to a cream, mixed or braided 
with the flour, and then made into a paste with a little of 
the soup. 

A better way is to put the butter in a small saucepan, 
and when melted and bubbling stir in the flour quickly, 
until smooth (be careful not to brown butter for any 
white soup) ; then add gradually about a cup of the hot 
soup, letting it boil and thicken as you add the soup. It 
should be thin enough to pour. In vegetable soups or 
purees, as soon as the hot butter and flour are blended, 



136 The Boston Cook Booh. 

they may be stirred at once into the soup. This is what is 
meant in many of the receipts by thickening with butter 
and flour which have been cooked together. The hot but- 
ter cooks the flour more thoroughly than it can be cooked 
in any other way. When a brown thickening is desired, 
as in Mock Turtle Soup, melt the butter and let it become 
as brown as it will without burning; then add all the 
flour at once and stir quickly, that every particle of it 
may be moistened in the hot butter; add the water or 
soup gradually. 

Flour that is browned while dry, either in the oven or 
over the fire, colors, but does not thicken. A certain 
amount of moisture, of either fat or water, is necessary 
with the heat to thoroughly swell the grains of starch in 
the flour. Thickened soups should be about the consist- 
ency of good cream. Purees are thicker. 

Material to be served with Soup. 

Croutons^ or Fried Bread. No. 1. — Cut stale bread into 
half-inch slices, remove the crusts, and cut into half-inch 
cubes ; put them in a frying-basket, plunge into fat hot 
enough to brown them while you count forty ; drain and 
sprinkle with salt. They may be fried at any time and 
heated in the oven just before serving. They are espe- 
cially nice with pea and bean soup. 

No. 2. — Cut the bread into cubes, and brown in butter 
in an omelet pan ; or butter first, then cut into cubes and 
brown in the oven. They are best when prepared after 
the first receipt. 

Crisped Crackers. — Split butter crackers and spread with 
butter ; put them, the buttered side up, into a pan, and 
brown in a hot oven. They are delicious with white or 
vegetable soups, and in fish chowder and oyster stews. 

Egg Balls. 

Boil/owr eggs twenty minutes ; put tKem in cold water. 
When cool, cut carefully through the white, and remove 



The Boston Cook Book. 137 

the yolks whole. They may be served in the soup whole 
or cut into quarters. Or put the yolks in a small bowl 
and rub them to a paste with a wooden spoon. Season 
with one saltspoonful of salt ; one fourth of a sahspoonful 
of pepper ; one teaspoonful of melted butter. Moisten it with 
the beaten yolk or white of one raw egg, using just enough 
to shape it easily into balls about the size of a walnut. 
Roll in flour and fry in butter; the same as force-meat 
balls. They are sometimes boiled five minutes in the soup, 
but are better fried. 



1 cup of any cooked meat. 

1 saltsp. each of salt and thyme. 

% saltspoonf ul pepper. 

1 teaspoonful lemon juice. 

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 



Force-Meat Balls for Soup. 

Yolk of 1 raw egg. 
A few drops onion juice. 
1 tablespoonful flour. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 



Chop the meat very fine ; add the seasoning ; beat the 
yolk of the egg, and add enough of it to moisten the meat ; 
make it into balls the size of a nutmeg, put them in a soup 
plate, sprinkle them with flour, shake the plate until the 
balls are all floured ; put the butter in an omelet pan, and 
when brown put in the balls, and shake the pan occasion- 
ally until the balls are browned. 

Mock Turtle Soup. 



1 calf 8 head. 

4 quarts cold water. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 
6 cloves. 

6 peppercorns. 

6 allspice. 

% inch stick cinnamon. 

Bouquet of herbs. 

2 onions. 



1 carrot. 

1 turnip. 
Celery root. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. 
1 pint brown stock. 

3 eggs. 

1 lemon. 



Wash, scrape, and clean the head, and soak an hour in 
cold water. Remove the brains and tongue. Lay them 






138 The Boston Cook Booh 

in cold water, to be reserved for separate dishes. Cat the 
head into four or five pieces, and put it into the kettle with 
the skin side up, to prevent sticking. Add the cold water ; 
heat slowly and skim thoroughly, as the meat is to be used 
again. Add the salt, and simmer two hours, or until the 
meat slips from the bones. Remove the meat, and put 
the face meat smoothly on a plate, so it can easily be cut 
into dice when cool. Reserve the remainder of the meat 
for force-meat balls. Put the bones on to boil again. 
Add the herbs, spices, and vegetables, and simmer until 
reduced to two quarts. Strain, and set away to cool. 
Half an hour before serving, remove the fat, put the stock 
on to boil, and season with one saltspoonful each of ground 
thyme or marjoram and pepper, and one teaspoonful of salt. 
Make a brown thickening with two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
browned, two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch or flour, and 
one pint of brown stock. Stir this into the stock. Add 
one cup of meat dice, made by cutting the face meat into 
half-inch cubes. Boil the three eggs twenty minutes, and 
make the yolks into egg balls, or cut the whole eggs in 
half-inch slices. Make force-meat balls with the reserved 
meat, according to directions on page 137. Put the meat 
balls and egg balls into the tureen, add the soup, and serve 
very hot with thin slices of lemon. 

This is usually flavored with a glass of sherry wine, but 
is very good with only the lemon, or a tablespoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce. Or 3'ou may boil with it one pint 
of strained tomatoes. 

If you have no brown stock, boil one pound of lean beef 
with the head, and use the head stock with the flour and 
butter thickening. This soup is often made from calfs 
feet, and one or two pounds of lean veal. The feet should 
be soaked and scalded, boiled in four quarts of water with 
the herbs, spices, and vegetables, until the water is reduced 
to two quarts. Strain, and use as directed in the first 
receipt, making force-meat balls of the veal, and meat 
dice from the gelatinous meat of the feet. 



77te Boston Cook Book. 139 



Ox-Tail Soup. 



2 ox-tails. 

1 large onion. 

1 tablespoonf ul beef drippings. 

4 quarts cold water. 



1 tablespoonf ul salt 

1 tablespoonf ul mixed herbs. 

4 cloves. 

4 peppercorns. 

Wash and cut up the qx- tails, separating them at the 
joints. Cut the onion fine and fry it in the hot beef drip- 
pings. When slightly browned, draw the onion to one side 
of the pan, and brown half of the ox-tails. Put the fried 
onion and ox-tails in the soup kettle, and cover with four 
quarts of cold water. Tie the cloves, peppercorns, and 
herbs in a small piece of strainer cloth, and add them to 
the soup. Add the salt, and simmer three or four hours, 
or until the meat separates from the bones, and the gristly 
portions are perfectly soft. Select some of the nicest 
joints to serve with the soup. Skim off the fat, and add 
more salt and pepper, if needed. Strain and serve very hot. 

If vegetables are served with this soup, add one pint of 
mixed vegetables, — onion, carrot, turnip, and celery. Cut 
them into small pieces, or into fancy shapes with a vege- 
table cutter. Add them to the liquor after straining, and 
boil twenty minutes or until tender. 

Mullagatawny Soup. 

This is an Indian soup, and means " pepper pot." It 
can be made from .veal, calf s head, chicken, or rabbit. 
Use one, or a mixture of two or more of these varieties 
of meat. Mullagatawny soup should always be very highly 
seasoned with onions, curry powder, and apples, or lemons, 
or some strong acid fruit. The best portions of the meat 
are usually removed as soon as tender, and served with the 
strained soup. Rice should also be served with this soup. 



3 pounds chicken, or young fowl. 

1 pound veal bones. 

2 onions. 

1 tablespoonf ul beef drippings. 

4 cloves. 

4 peppercorns. 



2 sour apples, or 

The juice of 1 lemon. 

4 quarts cold water. 

1 tablespoonful curry powder* 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful sugar. 



140 



The Boston Cook Book. 



Clean the chicken, and cat it at the joints into nice 
pieces for serving. Put it in the soup kettle with the veal 
bones, or any pieces of veal you may have. Cover with 
four quarts of cold water. Slice the onions, and fry them 
brown in the beef drippings. Put the onions, cloves, pep- 
percorns, and apples in the kettle. Mix the curry powder, 
salt, and sugar to a smooth paste with a little of the water ; 
add it to the soup. Let the soup simmer until the chicken 
Is tender. Remove the chicken and cut into small pieces. 
Put the bones back in the kettle, and simmer another hour- 
Strain the soup, remove the fat, and put the liquor on to 
boil again, with the pieces of chicken and three or four 
tablespoonfuls of boiled rice. When the chicken is hot, 
serve at once. 



Scotch Broth. 



% cup pearl barley. 
2 pounds neck of mutton. 
2 quarts cold water. 
\£ cup each of carrot, turnip, on- 
ion, and celery. 



2 tablespoonf uls butter. 

1 tablespoonf ul flour. 

2 teaspoonf uls salt. 

1 saltspoonful white pepper. 
1 tablespoonf ul chopped parsley. 



Pick over, and soak the barley over night or several 
hours in cold water. Wipe the meat with a clean wet 
cloth. Remove the fat and skin. Scrape the meat from 
the bones and cut it into half-inch dice. Put the bones on 
to boil in one pint of cold water, and the meat in three 
pints of cold water. Let the latter boil quickly, and skim 
carefully just as it begins to boil. When the scum comes 
up white, add the barley and skim again. Cut the vege- 
tables into quarter-inch dice, fiy them five minutes in 
one tablespoonful of the butter, and add them to the meat. 
Simmer three or four hours, or until the meat and barley 
are tender. Strain the water in which the bones have sim- 
mered. Cook one tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan 
with one tablespoonful of flour. When smooth, add the 
strained water gradually, and stir into the broth. Add 
the salt, pepper, and parsley. Simmer ten minutes, and 
serve without straining. Manj T people have a prejudice 



The Boston Cook Book. 141 

against mutton in stews or broths. The strong, disagree* 
able flavor lies mostly in the skin. If this be removed 
together with the fat, it will repay one for the time and 
trouble. As this broth is not to be strained, it is always 
well to boil the bones separately. Care must be taken not 
to let the water boil away. This is a favorite dish among 
the Scotch. They often serve it with a larger proportion of 
vegetables. The carrots are sometimes grated, giving the 
broth a fine color, and sometimes the dice of meat are first 
browned in the butter. Rice may be used instead of bar- 
ley. Scotch broth made after this receipt has been tested 
by a native Scotchman, and pronounced more like the 
44 auld countree " than any other dish eaten in America. 

Mutton Broth. 

Allow one quart of cold water to each pound of meat and 
bone. Break the bones and cut the meat (which should 
be lean) into small pieces. Cover with cold water and 
heat slowly. Add one teaspoonftd of salt and half a salt- 
spoonful of pepper, and a small slice of onion and turnip if 
you like. Simmer until the meat is in shreds. Strain it, 
and when it is cool remove the fat. To one quart of the 
broth allow two taUespoonfuls of rice, washed and soaked 
half an hour. When the broth is boiling, add the rice ; 
simmer until it is tender, being careful not to let the water 
boil away. Season, and serve at once. For seasoning, 
a little curry powder, used as you would use cayenne 
pepper, or a saltspoonful of celery salt, or a few leaves of 
fresh mint, are agreeable as a change. 

When you have not time to cool the broth, a piece of 
soft tissue paper passed over the surface helps to take up 
any globules of fat which cannot be removed with a spoon. 
To make it quickly for a sick person, chop one pound of 
perfectly lean, juicy mutton very fine ; pour over it one pint 
of cold water. Let it stand until the water is very red ; 
then heat it slowly. Let it simmer ten minutes. Strain, 
and serve hot. 



142 The Boston Cook Book, 



Chicken Broth. 

Clean the chicken, and separate it at the joints. Be* 
move all the skin and fat. Cover the chicken with cold 
water. Add one tablespoonful of salt, one saltspoonful of 
pepper, one small onion, sliced. Simmer until the chicken 
is tender. Remove the best part of the meat, and put 
the bones and gristle back and simmer until the bones are 
clean. Wash and soak two tablespoonfuls of rice half an 
hour. Strain the broth. Remove the fat. Put the broth 
on to boil again, and add to it the rice, and the nicest 
portions of meat cut into small pieces. Simmer until the 
rice is tender. Add seasoning to taste, and serve at once. 
A few spoonfuls of cream may be added if desired. Serve 
with toasted crackers. 



Turkey Soup. 

Take the bones and scraps left from roast turkey or 
chicken, or any kind of game. Scrape the meat from the 
bones, and lay aside any nice pieces, no matter how small. 
Remove all the stuffing, and keep that by itself. Break 
the bones, and pack them closely in a kettle. Cover with 
cold water. Add one small onion, sliced, one teaspoonful of 
salt, and a little pepper. Simmer two or three hours, or 
until the bones are clean. Strain, and remove the fat. 
Put the liquor on to boil again, and add for every quart of 
liquor, one cup of cold meat, cut into small pieces, and half 
a cup of the stuffing. Or omit the stuffing and thicken the 
soup with flour. Simmer till the meat is tender, and 
serve at once. If there be a much larger proportion of 
meat and stuffing left, use it in making scalloped turkey 
or croquettes. This is much better than to boil meat, 
bones, and stuffing together. In that case the stuffing 
absorbs the oil, and gives a very strong, disagreeable 
flavor to the soup. 



The Boston Cook Book. , 143 

^ — — ^— — — — i— ^ — — — — «^— — p— — — 

White Soup Stock. 

White soup stock is made from veal or chicken, sea- 
soned with onion, celery salt, and white pepper, avoiding 
anything which will give it color. White soups are thick- 
ened with rice, cornstarch, flour, eggs, or the white meat 
of chicken chopped fine, and are made still richer by milk 
or cream. 

White Soup (from Veal). 



4 pounds knuckle of veal. 
3 quarts cold water. 

1 even tablespoonf ul salt 
6 peppercorns. 

2 small onions. 
2 stalks celery. 



1 pint milk. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

1 heaping tablespoonful flour. 

1 teaspoonf ul salt. 

1 saltspoonful celery salt. 

% saltspoonf ul white pepper. 



Wipe and cut the veal into small pieces. Put it into 
the kettle with the cold water. Heat slowly and skim, 
because we do not wish the soup colored. Add the salt, 
peppercorns, onions, and celery. Simmer five hours, 
strain, and when cool remove the fat,. There should be 
about three pints of stock. When ready to use it, put 
the stock on to boil, and the milk into the double boiler. 
Thicken the stock with one tablespoonful of butter and 
one heaping tablespoonful of cornstarch, cooked together. 
Add the boiling milk, the salt, and pepper. Beat two 
eggs until light, put them in the tureen, and strain the 
boiling soup over them. Many people prefer to use the 
yolks of the eggs only. This makes a yellow soup. 
Others vary it by boiling the eggs hard and rubbing the 
yolks through a gravy strainer after the soup is in the 
tureen. 

This veal stock may be clarified with the white of an 
egg, if you wish it transparent. But it is better witn the 
milk or cream, and should be highly seasoned, and re- 
duced one half by boiling, as when made from veal alone 
it is insipid. Serve with croutons. 



144 • The Boston Cook Book. 



White Soup (from Chicken). 



3 or 4 pounds fowl. 
3 quarts cold water. 
1 tablespoonf ul salt. 
6 peppercorns. 

1 tablespoonf ul chopped onion. 

2 tablespoonf uls chopped celery. 



1 pint cream. 
1 tablespoonf ul butter. 
1 tablespoonf ul cornstarch. 
1 teaspoonf ul salt 

1 saltspoonf ul white pepper. 

2 eggs. 



Singe, clean, and wipe the fowl. Cut off the legs and 
wings, and disjoint the body. Put it on to boil in cold 
water. Let it come to a boil quickly, because we wish to 
use the meat as well as the water, and skim thoroughly. 
The meat may be removed when tender, and the bones put 
on to boil again. (Use the meat for croquettes or other 
made dishes.) Add the salt and vegetables. Simmer until 
reduced one half. Strain, and when cool remove the fat. 
For one quart of stock allow one pint of cream or milk. 
If cream, use a little less flour for thickening. Boil the 
stock ; add the butter and flour, cooked together, and the 
seasoning. Strain it over the eggs, stirring as you pour, 
or the eggs will curdle. By substituting, for the eggs in 
this white soup, the white meat of the chicken, chopped 
fine and rubbed to a powder, we have Potage a la Rexne, 
which many think too elaborate for any but a professional 
cook to undertake. The breast of a roast chicken may be 
used. Add it to the boiling stock, then thicken it with 
the flour and butter. Add the cream, and if not perfectly 
smooth, strain into the tureen. It should be quite thick 
like cream. Whole rice is sometimes served with clear 
chicken soup. If used as a thickening, boil the rice until 
soft enough to rub through a strainer. Add it to the 
chicken liquor, and unite them with butter and flour cooked 
together. 

The liquor in which a fowl or chicken has been boiled, 
when not wanted for any other purpose, should be saved 
for white soup. If the vegetables and spices are not 
boiled with the fowl, fry them five minutes without burn- 
ing, add them to the stock, and simmer fifteen minutes. 



The Boston Cook Booh 145 



Strain before serving. Chicken stock clarified makes a 
pale straw-colored, transparent soup. 

Potage a la Heine, No. 2. {Queen Victoria's favorite Soup.) 

Remove the fat from one quart of the water in which a 
chicken has been boiled. Season highly with salt, pepper, 
and celery salt, and a little onion if desired, and put on to 
boil. Mash the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs fine, and 
mix them with half a cup of oread or cracker crumbs, 
soaked until soft in a little milk. Chop the white meat of 
the chicken until fine like meal, and stir it into the egg 
and bread paste. Add one pint of hot cream slowly, and 
then rub all into the hot chicken liquor. Boil five minutes ; 
add more salt if needed, and if too thick add more cream, 
or if not thick enough add more fine cracker dust. It 
should be like a puree. 



146 The Boston Cook Book. 



SOUPS WITHOUT STOCK. 

Ant of the soups or purees in this division may be at- 
tempted before one has mastered the imaginary difficulties 
of stock-making. They are palatable, nutritious, inex 
pensive, and quickly prepared. 

Potato Soup. 



3 potatoes. 

1 pint milk. 

1 teaspoonful chopped onion. 

1 stalk celery. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 



% teaspoonful celery salt. 
% saltspoonf ul white pepper. 
j^ saltspoonf ul cayenne. 
>£ tablespoon! ul flour. 
1 tablespoonf ul butter. 



Wash and pare the potatoes, and let them soak in cold 
water half an hour. Put them into boiling water, and 
cook until very soft. Cook the onion and celery with the 
milk in a double boiler. When the potatoes are soft, drain 
off the water and mash them. Add the boiling milk and 
seasoning. Rub through a strainer, and put it on to boil 
again. Put the butter in a small saucepan, and when 
melted and bubbling, add the flour, and when well mixed 
stir into the boiling soup ; let it boil five minutes, and serve 
very hot. This flour thickening keeps the potato and 
milk from separating, and gives a smoothness and con- 
sistency quite unlike the granular effect which is often 
noticed. If the soup be too thick, add more hot milk. 

The celery salt may be omitted if you have the fresh 
celery, or, if you like, put one taHespoonful of fine chopped 
parsley into the soup just before serving. 

When you wish a richer soup, use a quart of milk, mak- 
ing it much thinner, and add two eggs, well beaten, after 
you take it from the fire ; or put them in the tureen, 
and stir rapidly as you pour in the boiling soup. New raw 
potatoes, cut into small dice or balls and cooked till tender 
but not broken, are sometimes served in potato soup. 



The Boston Cook Booh 147 



Celery Soup. 



1 head celery. 

1 pint water. 

1 pint milk. 

1 table8poonf ul chopped onion. 



1 tablespoonful batter. 
1 tablespoonful flour. 
% teaspoonf ul salt. 
% saltspoonf ul pepper. 



Wash and scrape the celery, cut into half-inch pieces, 
put it into one pint of boiling salted water, and cook until 
very soft. Mash in the water in which it was boiled. Cook 
the onion with the milk, in a double boiler, ten minutes, 
and add it to the celery. Rub all through a strainer, and 
put it on to boil again. Cook the butter and flour together 
in a small saucepan until smooth, but not brown, and 
stir it into the boiling soup. Add the salt and pepper ; 
boil five minutes, and strain into the tureen. Serve very 
hot. 

Tomato Soup. 

1 quart can tomatoes. 

1 pint hot water, 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 

1 teaspoonf ul salt. 

4 cloves. 

4 peppercorns, or 

Put the tomatoes, water, sugar, salt, cloves, and pep- 
Dercorns on to boil in a porcelain stewpan. Put the but- 
ter in a small saucepan, and when it bubbles put in the 
onion and parsle}*. Fry five minutes, being careful not to 
burn it. Add the cornstarch, and when well mixed stir 
it into the tomato. Let it simmer ten minutes. Add 
more salt and pepper if needed. Strain, and serve with 
plain boiled rice, or croutons, or toasted crackers. 



1 saltspoonf ul white pepper. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
1 tablespoonful chopped onion. 
1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. 
1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 



Mock Bisque Soup. 



% can tomatoes. 
1 quart milk. 
% cup butter. 



1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 

1 teaspoonf ul salt. 

% saltspoonf ul white pepper. 



Stew the tomatoes until soft enough to strain easily. 
Boil the milk in a double boiler. Cook one tablespoonful 



148 The Boston Cook Book. 

of the butter and the cornstarch together in a small sauce- 
pan, adding enough of the hot milk to make it pour easily. 
Stir it carefully into the boiling milk, and boil ten minutes. 
Add- th* remainder of the butter in small pieces, and stir 
till well mixed. Add salt and pepper and the strained 
tomatoes. If the tomatoes be very acid, add half a salt- 
spoonful of soda before straining. Serve very hot. Many 
would use more tomatoes, but it is more delicate with a 
small quantity. 

Black Bean Soup. 



1 pint black beans. 

2 quart 8 cold water. 

1 small onion. 

2 teaspoonfuls salt. 

1 saltspoonful pepper. 
j£ saltspoonful cayenne. 



1 saltspoonful mustard. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

2 tablespoonf uls butter. 

1 lemon. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 



Soak the beans over night. In the morning pour ofl 
the water, and put them on to boil in two quarts of cold 
water. Slice the onion and fty it in one tablespoonful of 
the butter. Put it with the beans. Add a bit of celery 
root, if you have it. Simmer four or five hours, or until 
the beans are soft. Add more cold water as it boils awav, 
— about half a cup every half-hour, — to check the boil- 
ing and soften the beans, leaving about two quarts when 
done. Rub the beans through a strainer, put the soup 
on to boil again, and add the salt, pepper, and mustard. 
When boiling, thicken it with the flour and butter which 
have been cooked together. This will prevent the beans 
from settling. Season to taste. Cut the lemon and eggs 
into thin slices, put them into the tureen, and pour the hot 
soup over them. Serve with croutons. 

Many think tomatoes are an improvement. If that 
flavor be desired, add to the above half a can of tomatoes, 
before straining. Others think it is not just right unless 
a quarter of a pound of salt pork, or some bones and odds 
and ends of meat, have been boiled with it. The beans 
are sometimes boiled to quite a thick pulp, and after sifting 
made of the proper consistency by thinning with brown 



The Boston Cook Book. 149 

soap stock, and seasoned more highly with the addition 
of ground herbs, spices, force-meat balls, and wine. It 
is then not unlike Mock Turtle Soup. 

A very good bean soup may be made from the remains 
of baked beans. Add one quart of water and a slice of 
onion to each pint of beans. Boil to a pulp, mash, and 
season. Or make the soup of equal parts of white beans 
and canned or dried sweet corn. If dried corn, soak it 
over night, chop it fine, and boil it with the beans. If 
canned corn, chop it, and add it to the beans after 
straining. But whichever way it is prepared, do not boil 
the beans in the water in which they were soaked, nor 
serve them without straining, to remove the hulls, which 
contain no nutriment and are indigestible. 



Split Pea Soup. 



1 cup dried split peas. 
3 pints cold water. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
1 tablespoonful flour. 



% teaspoonf ul sugar. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 saltspoonf ul white pepper. 



Pick over and wash the peas. Soak over night, or for 
several hours in cold water. Put them on to boil in three 
pints of fresh cold water, and let them simmer until dis- 
solved, adding enough more water, as it boils away, to 
keep three pints of liquid in the kettle. Keep it well 
scraped from the sides of the kettle. When soft, rub through 
a strainer and put on to boil again. Add either water, 
stock, milk, or cream to make the consistency you wish. 
It should be more like a puree than a soup. Cook one 
large tablespoonful of butter and one of flour together, 
and add to the strained soup when boiling. Add the salt 
and pepper, and when it has simmered ten minutes, serve 
at once with fried dice of bread. 

This is delicious made in this simple way. It must 
always be strained, and thickened with the flour and but- 
ter, or it will separate as it cools. It will be smooth, per- 
fectly free from grease; and those who like the natural 



ISO 



The Boston Cook Book. 



taste of the peas prefer it to any other waj 7 of cookiiig. 
Do not think you must boil more or less salt pork with it, 
as most receipts advise. It may be varied in many ways, 
by adding half a can of tomatoes before straining, or 
by boiling with the peas a small onion which has first been 
cut fine and fried in a little butter, or hy adding any rem- 
nants of bone or meat, being careful to remove them before 
straining. Always use the split peas, as the hulls have 
been removed, and they cook much more quickly than the 
whole peas. 



Green Pea Soup. 



1 quart green peas. 
1 quart water. 
1 pint milk. 
% teaspoonful salt. 



J£ saltspoonful pepper. 
% teaspoonful sugar. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
1 tablespoonful flour. 



Put the peas into one pint of boiling water, and cook 
until soft Mash them in the water in which they were 
boiled, and rub through a strainer, gradually adding a pint 
of hot water, which will help to separate the pulp from the 
skins. Put on to boil again. Cook the butter and flour 
in a small saucepan, being careful not to brown it. Stir 
it into the boiling soup. Add the salt, sugar, pepper, and 
the milk, which should be hot, using enough milk to make 
it the consistency you prefer. This is a very good way to 
use peas that are old and hard, and unfit to serve as a 
vegetable, which is often the case with those that come 
from a market. When the pods are fresh, wash them 
thoroughly; allow more water, and boil them with the 
peas. 

Green Corn Soup. 



6 ears sweet corn, or enough to 

make 1 pint raw pulp. 
Water to cover the ears. 
1 pint milk, or cream. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 



% saltspoonful white pepper. 
1 teaspoonful sugar. 
1 teaspoonful flour. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 



With a very sharp knife scrape the thinnest possible 
shaving from each row of kernels, and then, with the back 



The Boston Cook Book. 



151 



of the knife, scrape out the pulp, leaving the hull on the 
cob. Break the cobs if long, and put them on to boil in 
enough cold water to cover them. Boil thirty minutes and 
strain. There should be about one pint of water after 
8 training. Put the corn water on to boil again, and when 
boiling add the corn pulp. Cook fifteen minutes. Add 
the salt, pepper, sugar, and the boiling milk. Thicken 
it with one teaspoonful of flour and one tablespoonful of 
butter cooked together. Boil five minutes and serve at 

once. 

Corn is better for sonp when it is a little old for the 
table, and the pulp is thick rather than milky. 



Vegetable Soup (Winter). 



1 cup each of onion and carrot. 
1 cup each of turnip and parsnip. 
1 pint each of celery and potato. 
% cup butter or drippings. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
1 tablespoonful flour. 



1 teaspoonful sugar. 
1 saltspoonf ul white pepper. 
j£ saltspoonf ul cayenne pepper. 
1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. 
1 slice of bread crust toasted very 
brown. 



Cut the onion, carrot, turnip, parsnip, and celery into 
half-inch dice, reserving the onions to fry, and the pota- 
toes to boil by themselves. Put the butter in a stew- 
pan or soup kettle, and when hot add the onions. After 
frying them carefully until colored but not burned, add the 
flour, and when well mixed pour on gradually a pint of 
hot water. Add the salt, pepper, sugar, bread, vegetables 
(except the potatoes), and enough boiling water to cover 
all. Let them simmer two hours. Boil the potatoes ten 
minutes, drain, and add them to the soup. When the 
vegetables are soft, rub all through a strainer. Add more 
salt and pepper if desired, and keep over hot water until 
ready to serve. 

A summer vegetable soup may be made in a similar man- 
ner, using young onions, turnips, carrots, and cauliflower. 
Cut fine and parboil ; then coyer with fresh boiling water, 
simmer until soft, mash, strain, season, make quite thin 



152 The Boston Cook Book. 

with hot cream or milk, and pour this over a small quan- 
tity of tender green peas and asparagus tips, previously 
boiled. 



Fish Soup. 



1 pound any boiled fish, — salmon, 

cod, or halibut. 
1 quart milk. 
1 slice onion. 



1 tablespoonf ul butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. 
1 teaspoonf ul salt. 

1 saltspoonful pepper. 



Cook the fish in boiling salted water, until it flakes 
easily. Drain it, remove the skin and bones, and rub 
through a coarse strainer. Cook the onion with one 
quart of milk ten minutes, remove the onion, and thicken 
the milk with the flour and butter cooked together. Add 
the seasoning and fish. Let it boil up once and serve. 

Pure'e of Canned Salmon. 

Remove the oil, bones, and skin from half a can of 
salmon. Chop the salmon very fine. Boil one quart of 
milk, and season and thicken it as for fish soup. Add the 
salmon, and. when heated it is ready to serve. 

Lobster Soup, or Bisque of Lobster. 



2 pounds lobster. 
1 quart milk. 

1 tablespoonf ul butter. 

2 tablesp. flour or cornstarch. 



1 teaspoonful salt. 
1 saltspoonful white pepper. 
% saltspoonful cayenne pepper. 
1 pint water. 



Remove the meat of the- lobster from the shell, and cut 
the tender pieces into quarter-inch dice. Put the ends of 
the claw meat and any other tough, hard parts, with the 
bones of the body, into one pint of cold water, and boil 
twenty minutes, adding more water as it boils away. Put 
the coral on a piece of paper, and dry it in the oven. 
Boil one quart of milk, and thicken it with one tablespoon- 
ful of butter and two of flour or cornstarch. Boil ten 
minutes. Strain the water from the bones and add it to 
the milk. Add the salt and pepper, using more if high 



The Boston Cook Book. 153 



seasoning be desired. Rub the dried coral through a 
strainer, using enough to give the soup a bright pink color. 
Put the green fat and lobster dice into the tureen, and 
strain the boiling soup over them. Serve immediately. 

If you do not like so much of the lobster in the soup, 
chop it all very fine, boil it with the milk, and rub it 
through a squash or gravy strainer. Many like the addi- 
tional thickening of half a cup of fine cracker crumbs. 

This soup may also be varied by using one pint of stock, 
either chicken or veal, and one pint* of milk; or by the 
addition of force-meat balls made in the following manner : 
Cut only half of the meat into dice ; chop the remainder, 
and pound it to a fine paste with the yolks of two hard-boiled 
eggs, one teaspoonful of butter, a little salt, and pepper ; beat 
one raw egg, and add enough of it to moisten the paste so 
that it may easily be made into balls the size of a nutmeg ; 
let them simmer in the soup about five minutes, just 
enough to cook the egg. 

Lobster Soup, No. 2. 

The meat of two small lobsters, cut fine, one pint of cream, 
one pint of milk. Simmer twenty minutes. Add one table- 
spoonful of flour wet in cold milk. Salt and cayenne pepper 
to taste. Just before serving add half a cup of butter, cut 
into small pieces, and stir till it is entirely absorbed. 
Strain, and serve very hot. 



1 quart oystera. 

1 pint milk. 

1 tableepoonf ul butter. 



Oyster Soup. 

2 tableepoonf uls flour. 

Salt to taste. 

% saltspoonf ul pepper. 



Put the milk on to boil in the double boiler, while you 
prepare the oysters. Place a colander over a pan. Put 
the oysters in a large bowl, and pour over them one cup of 
water. Take up each oyster with the fingers, to make sure 
no pieces of shell adhere to it, and drain in the colander. 
Strain the oyster liquor, which has drained from the 



152 The Boston Cook Book. 

with hot cream or milk, and pour this over a small quan- 
tity of tender green peas and asparagus tips, previously 
boiled. 



Fish Soup. 



1 pound any boiled fish, — salmon, 

cod, or halibut 
1 quart milk. 
1 slice onion. 



1 tablespoonful butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 saltspoonful pepper. 



Cook the fish in boiling salted water, until it flakes 
easily. Drain it, remove the skin and bones, and rub 
through a coarse strainer. Cook the onion with one 
quart of milk ten minutes, remove the onion, and thicken 
the milk with the flour and butter cooked together. Add 
the seasoning and fish. Let it boil up once and serve. 

Puree of Canned Salmon. 

Remove the oil, bones, and skin from half a can of 
salmon. Chop the salmon very fine. Boil one quart of 
milk, and season and thicken it as for fish soup. Add the 
salmon, and. when heated it is ready to serve. 

Lobster Soup, or Bisque of Lobster. 



2 pounds lobster. 
1 quart milk. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

2 tablesp. flour or cornstarch. 



1 teaspoonful salt. 
1 saltspoonful white pepper. 
% saltspoonful cayenne pepper. 
1 pint water. 



Remove the meat of the. lobster from the shell, and cut 
the tender pieces into quarter-inch dice. Put the ends of 
the claw meat and any other tough, hard parts, with the 
bones of the body, into one pint of cold water, and boil 
twenty minutes, adding more water as it boils away. Put 
the coral on a piece of paper, and dry it in the oven. 
Boil one quart of milk, and thicken it with one tablespoon- 
ful of butter and two of flour or cornstarch. Boil ten 
minutes. Strain the water from the bones and add it to 
the milk. Add the salt and pepper, using more if high 



The Boston Cook Book. 153 

seasoning be desired. Rub the dried coral through a 
strainer, using enough to give the soup a bright pink color. 
Put the green fat and lobster dice into the tureen, and 
strain the boiling soup over them. Serve immediately. 

If you do not like so much of the lobster in the soup, 
chop it all very fine, boil it with the milk, and rub it 
through a squash or gravy strainer. Many like the addi- 
tional thickening of half a cup of fine cracker crumbs. 

This soup may also be varied by using one pint of stock, 
either chicken or veal, and one pint* of milk; or by the 
addition of force-meat balls made in the following manner : 
Cut only half of the meat into dice ; chop the remainder, 
and pound it to a fine paste with the yolks of two hard-boiled 
eggs, one teaspoonful of butter, a little salt, and pepper ; beat 
one raw egg, and add enough of it to moisten the paste so 
that it may easily be made into balls the size of a nutmeg ; 
let them simmer in the soup about five minutes, just 
enough to cook the egg. 

Lobster Soup, No. 2. 

The meat of two small lobsters, cut fine, one pint of cream, 
one pint of milk. Simmer twenty minutes. Add one table- 
spoonful of flour wet in cold milk. Salt and cayenne pepper 
to taste. Just before serving add half a cup of butter, cut 
into small pieces, and stir till it is entirely absorbed. 
Strain, and serve very hot 



Oyster Soup. 



1 quart oysters. 

1 pint milk. 

1 tableepoonf ul butter. 



2 tablespoonf uls flour. 

Salt to taste. 

% saltspoonf ul pepper. 



Put the milk on to boil in the double boiler, while you 
prepare the oysters. Place a colander over a pan. Put 
the oysters in a large bowl, and pour over them one cup of 
water. Take up each oyster with the fingers, to make sure 
no pieces of shell adhere to it, and drain in the colander. 
Strain the oyster liquor, which has drained from the 



154 The ' Boston Cook Book. 

colander, through the finest strainer. Put it on to boil. 
Remove the scum, and when clear pat in the oysters. 
Let them simmer, but not boil, until they begin to grow 
plump and the edges to curl or separate. Strain the liquor 
into the milk, and put the oysters where they will keep 
hot, but not cook. Thicken the milk with the butter and 
flour, which have been cooked together ; add salt and 
pepper to taste (the amount of salt depending upon the 
saltness of the oysters). Boil five minutes; add the oys- 
ters and serve at once. This receipt may be varied by 
boiling one cup of fine chopped celery and a small dice of 
onion with the milk ten minutes ; then straining and thick- 
ening it with half a cup of powdered cracker. Add the 
butter, the seasoning, and the parboiled oysters. Serve 
at once. 

Oyster Stew is made like oyster soup, without the 
thickening. 

Clam Soup. 
% peck clams in the shell. L. 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. 



1 heaping tablespoonful butter. 

2 heaping tablespoonf uls flour. 
1 pint milk or cream. 



Salt to taste. 

1 saltspoonful pepper. 

J^ saltspoonful cayenne pepper. 

1 tablespoonful chopped onion. 

Prepare the^lams by boiling in the shells, and cutting 
as directed for clam chowder, keeping the soft part sepa- 
rate from the hard. Pour off one quart of the clam liquor 
after it settles, being careful not to take any of the sedi- 
ment ; put it on to boil, and remove the scum. Add one 
pint of hot water, and season to taste with salt, pepper, cay- 
enne, onion, and parsley. Put in the hard part of the 
clams. Simmer fifteen minutes, strain, and boil again, 
and when boiling thicken with the flour cooked in the 
butter. Add the hot milk or cream, and the soft part of 
the clams ; serve at once, with crackers and pickles. 

Another method of preparing clam soup, if needed 
quickly : Heat the clam broth to a boiling point ; add the 
clams cut fine ; season, and pour into the tureen over two 
eggs beaten up with the boiling milk. 



The Boston Cook Booh 153 

■■■«»— ^ ^ — >~ — ^ — ^— — — — — ^ _ __>»^ 

The c/am iroffl sen r ed hot with toasted crackers will oftek 
tempt a person with a capricious appetite. 

Fish Chowder. 



4 or 5 pounds cod or haddock or 

bass. 
6 potatoes. 

A 2-inch cube of fat salt pork. 
2 small onions. 



1 tablespoonf ul salt. 

% teaspoonf ul white pepper. 

1 tablespoonf ul butter. 

1 quart milk. 

6 butter crackers. 



When buying a fish for a chowder, have the head left on 
but the skin removed ; or if you have to depend upon your 
self, remove the skin according to directions on page 161. 
Then begin at the tail and cut the fish from the bone on 
one side, keeping the knife as close as possible to the 
bone ; remove the bone from the other side. Do not for- 
get to take out the small bones near the head. Wipe the 
fish carefully with a damp cloth, cut it into pieces about 
two inches square, and put it away in a cool place. Break 
the bones and head, cover with cold water, and put them 
on to boil. Pare and slice uie potatoes one eighth of an 
inch thick, using enough to make the same quantity by 
measurement as you have of fish. Soak them in cold water 
half an hour, and parboil or scald in boiling water five 
minutes; then pour off the water. Cut the pork into 
quarter-inch dice, and fry it in an omelet pan. Cut the 
onions into thin slices and fry them in the pork fat, being 
careful that it does not burn. Pour the fat through a 
strainer into the kettle, leaving the pork scraps and onions 
in the strainer. Put the sliced potatoes into the kettle ; 
hold the strainer over the potatoes, and pour through it 
enough boiling water to cover them. This is easier than 
to fry in the kettle, and skim out the pork and onions, — 
which to a novice would be running the risk of burning the 
fat, cleaning the kettle, and beginning again. When the 
potatoes have boiled ten minutes, strain the water in which 
the bones were boiled, and pour it into the kettle. . Add 
the salt and pepper, and when the chowder is boiling 
briskly, put in the fish, and set it back where it can sim- 



i $6 The Boston Cook Book. 

mer ten minutes. Do not break the fish by stirring it 
Add the butter and the hot milk. Split the crackers, put 
them in the tureen, and pour the chowder over them. Do 
not soak the crackers in cold water. Butter crackers will 
soften easily in the hot chowder. If you wish the broth 
thicker, stir in one cup of fine cracker crumbs, or one 
tablespoonful of flour cooked in one tablespoonful of butter. 
More milk and a little more seasoning may be added to 
this amount of fish and potato, if you wish to make a larger 
quantity. When wanted richer, beat two eggs, mix them 
with the hot milk, and put in the tureen before turning in 
the chowder. If added while the chowder is in the hot 
kettle, the eggs will curdle. Any firm white fish may be 
used for a chowder, but cod and haddock are best. Many 
use a cod's head with the haddock. The head is rich and 
gelatinous, and it should always be boiled with the bones, 
and the liquor added to the chowder. In this chowder you 
have nothing but what the most dainty person may relish. 
There are no bones, skin, or scraps of boiled pork. Fish, 
potatoes, and crackers are all distinct in the creamy liquid, 
instead of being a pastj r mush, such as is often served. 
For a change, the crackers may be buttered and browned. 
If a highty seasoned dish be desired, boil an onion, cut 
into thin slices, with the potatoes ; add more pepper, and 
either cayenne pepper, . Worcestershire sauce, or curry 
powder. Omit the boiling water, and use only that in 
which the bones were boiled, when making a smaller 
quantity. 

Clam Chowder. 



% teaspoonf ul white pepper. 
1 large tablespoonful butter. 
1 quart milk. 
6 butter crackers. 



% peck clams m the shells. 
1 quart potatoes, sliced thin. 
A 2-inch cube of fat salt pork. 
1 or 2 onions. 
1 teaspoonf ul salt. 

Clam chowder is made in the same manner as fish 
chowder, substituting half a peck of clams for the fish. 
Clams in the shells are better, as } T ou then have more 
clam liquor. Wash with a small brush, and put them 



The Boston Cook Book. 157 

in a large kettle with half a cupful of water, or just enough 
to keep the under ones from burning ; set them over the 
fire. When the clams at the top have opened, take them 
out with a skimmer, and when cool enough to handle, take 
the clams from the shell ; remove the thin skin ; then with 
scissors cut off all the black end, cut the u leather straps " 
into small pieces, leaving the soft part whole. Let the 
clam liquor settle, and pour it off carefully. Use half 
water and half clam liquor. Fry the pork and onion the 
same as in fish chowder ; add the potatoes, which have been 
soaked and scalded, and boiling water to cover. When 
the potatoes are soft, add the clam liquor, the seasoning, 
and the clams ; when warmed through, add the hot milk 
and turn into the tureen. Do not put the clams into the 
chowder until the potatoes are nearly done, as prolonged 
boiling hardens them. 

Corn Chowder. 



1 quart raw sweet corn. 

1 pint sliced potatoes. 

A 2-inch cube fat salt pork. 

1 onion. 

1 teaspoonf ul salt. 



1 saltspoonf ul white pepper. 
1 large tablespoonf ul butter. 
1 pint sliced tomatoes. 
1 pint milk. 
6 crisped crackers. 



Scrape the raw corn from the cob. Boil the cobs twenty 
minutesin water enough to cover them ; then skim them 
out. Pare, soak, and scald the potatoes. Fry the onion 
in the salt pork fat, and strain the fat into the kettle with 
the corn water. Add the potatoes, corn, salt, and pepper. 
Simmer fifteen minutes, or till the potatoes and corn are 
tender. Add the butter and milk, and serve very hot 
with crisped crackers. 



Lobster Chowder. 

1 pound lobster. 
1 quart milk. 
3 crackers. 
J£ cup butter. 



1 scant teaspoonf ul salt. 

% saltspoonful white pepper* 

j£ saltspoonf ul cayenne pepper. 



Boil one quart of milk. Roll three crackers fine ; mix 
with them one fourth of a cup of butter, and the green fat 



158 The Boston Cook Book. 

of the lobster. Season with one scant teaspoonful of 
salt, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, and one fourth 
of a saltspoonful of caj T enne pepper. Pour the boiling 
milk gradually over the paste. Put it back in the double 
boiler ; add the lobster meat cut into dice ; let it boil up 
once, and serve. 

Puree of Clams. 

One pint of boiled clams ; remove the dark substance 
from the soft part, and chop the hard part very fine. 
Thicken one pint of hot cream with one tablespoonful of flour 
cooked in one heaping tablespoonful of hot butter ; add the 
chopped clams, the soft parts, and salt and pepper. Add 
more hot cream or a little of the clam liquor if the puree 
be too thick. When hot, strain it into the tureen. 



The Boston Cook Book. 159 



-FISH. 

Fish, on account of its abundance, cheapness, and 
wholesomeness, is invaluable as an article of food. It is 
less nutritious and less stimulating than meat, as it con- 
tains less solid matter and more water. An exaggerated 
idea of the value of fish as brain food has prevailed ; the 
latest authorities, however, state that there is no evidence 
to prove that fish is any richer than meat in phosphorus. 
But as it contains little fat, the white varieties particularly, 
it is easily digested, and as it has a large proportion of 
nitrogenous material, it is especially adapted to all those 
upon whom there are great demands for nervous energy. 

Salmon heads the list " of whatsoever hath scales and 
fins," in nutritive qualities ; and it is richer than meat. 
The next in value are fat halibut, shad, white-fish, mack- 
erel, blue-fish, lean halibut, bass, flounder, trout, cod, 
haddock, cusk, etc. 

Red-blooded fish, like salmon, mackerel, and blue-fish, 
have the oil distributed through the body. They are 
nutritious for those who can digest them, but are too rich 
and oily for invalids. White fish, like flounder, halibut, 
cod, and haddock, have the oil in the liver, and are more 
easily digested. Fish should be perfectly fresh and thor- 
oughly cooked, or it will be very indigestible and some- 
times poisonous. Broiling and baking are the best methods. 
Small pan-fish and fillets of large white dry fish are good 
if fried ; but oily fish should never be fried. Salting draws 
out the nutritive part of fish the same as it does in meat ; 
and either, when thus prepared, should be used as a relish, 
and not depended upon for nourishment. Fat fish are 
injured less than white fish, as the fat is not removed by 
salting. 



160 The Boston Cook Book. 

All varieties of fish need an accompaniment of starchy 
foods, like bread and potatoes ; and white fish need beside 
to be cooked with butter or fat to make them desirable as 
food. The juices of fish, shell-fish particularly, are of an 
alkaline nature ; and this renders lemon juice or vinegar 
a desirable condiment as a neutralizing agency. 

The flesh of good, fresh fish is firm and hard, and will 
rise at once when pressed with the finger. If the eyes be 
dull and sunken, the gills pale, and the flesh flabby or 
soft, the fish is not fresh. 

Fish should be cleaned as soon as possible, in strongly 
salted water. The}* should be washed (not soaked) by 
wiping with a cloth wet in salt water. Then wrap them 
it* a cloth which is sprinkled with salt, and put them in 
a cool place. If put in the ice-chest, they will taint the 
butter and milk. Put ice around them, if necessary ; but 
do not let them touch the ice, as fresh water and ice will 
soften them. When once they lose their hard, firm con- 
sistency, they are considered unfit to eat by those who 
know -what good fish really are. 

Frozen fish should be thawed in cold water. Fresh- 
water fish having a muddj* taste or smell are improved by 
soaking in salt and water. Salt fish should be soaked in 
fresh water, with the skin side up, to draw out the salt, 
and should be eaten only occasionally, for the reason 
before stated. 

To Clean a Fish. — If the fish have scales, remove them 
before opening. Scrape with a small, sharp knife from 
the tail to the head ; hold the knife fiat and slanting, 
resting it on the fish, that the scales may be taken 
upon the knife ; scrape slowly, that the scales may not 
fly over everything near, and rinse the knife often in cold 
water. 

When the fish is to be served whole, do not remove the 
head and tail. Smelts and small fish served whole are 
opened under the gills, and the contents squeezed out by 
pressing from the middle with the thumb and finger. Large 
fish are split open from the gills half-way down the lower 



The Boston Cook Book. 161 

part of the body, the entrails removed, and the inside 
scraped and cleaned. Open far enough to remove all the 
blood on the backbone. Many leave the sound, which is 
the white part adhering to the bone ; but it is better to 
remove it. 

To Skin a Fish. — Cut a thin, narrow strip down the 
backbone, taking off the dorsal fin. Then open the lower 
part half-way down. Slip the knife under and up through 
the bony part of the gills, and hold this bony part between 
the thumb and finger, and strip the skin off toward the 
tail. Then do the same on the other side. 

Small fish, like mackerel and white-fish, when dressed 
for broiling, should be split through the back. 

To Bone a Fish. — Clean, and strip off the skin ; lay the 
fish flat on a board ; begin at the tail, and run the knife in 
under the flesh close to the bone, and scrape it away clean 
from the bone, holding the flesh carefully, not to break 
the flakes. When the flesh on one side is removed, slip 
the knife under the bone on the other side, and raise the 
bone, leaving the flesh on the board ; then pull out all the 
small bones left in the flesh, which you can easily feel with 
the fingers. Fish with many fine bones, like shad and her- 
ring, are not boned ; but from cod, cusk, mackerel, white- 
fish, and haddock they may be easily removed. 

Fillets of Fish are the flesh separated from the bone, and 
served whole or divided, as the case ma} 7 require. Floun- 
ders or sole, chicken halibut, and bass, should have the 
fillets on each side divided lengthwise ; making fbur long 
thin pieces, or fillets. Other fish are cut into thin slices 
or small squares. Very small fish may be split, the bone 
removed, and the whole fish rolled up from the tail to the 
head and fastened with a skewer. 

Broiled Fish. 

First clean the fish. Wash with a cloth wet in salt water, 
and dry on a clean fish towel, kept for no other purpose. 
Mackerel, white-fish, small blue-fish, trout, small cod, and 

ii 



1 62 The Boston Cook Book. 

shad should be split down the back, and if yon prefer, cut 
off the head and tail. Halibut and salmon should be cut 
into inch slices, the skin and bone removed, and turned 
often while broiling. Cut flounder, bass, and chicken hal- 
ibut into fillets. Oily fish need onty salt and pepper ; but 
dry white-fish should be spread with soft butter or olive ail 
before broiling * 

Use a double wire broiler, and grease well with salt pork 
rind. Put the thickest edge of the fish next the middle of 
the broiler, and always broil the flesh side first, as the skin 
burns easily. Cook the flesh side until it is brown. The 
time should vary with the thickness of the fish ; move the 
broiler up and down, that all parts may be equally browned ; 
then turn, and cook on the other side just enough to crisp 
the skin. Small fish require from five to ten minutes ; 
thicker fish, fifteen or twenty minutes. The fire should be 
hot and clear. If the fish be very thick, hold it farther 
from the fire ; or when nicely browned, put the broiler in 
the oven on a dripping-pan, and cook till the flesh sepa- 
rates easily from the bones. Mackerel, trout, and fresh 
herring are sometimes broiled whole. Clean without open- 
ing more than is necessary. Wipe and dry well. Gash 
through to the bone at intervals one inch apart on each side, 
and rub salt, pepper, and butter or oil in the incisions ; wrap 
in buttered paper, and broil carefully from ten to twenty 
minutes. When ready to serve, loosen the fish from the 
broiler on each side, open the broiler, and, leaving the flesh 
side of the fish uppermost, slide it off without breaking. Or 
open the opposite way, hold a platter over the skin side, 
and invert platter and broiler together. Spread with butter, 
salt, and pepper ; or add chopped parsley or watercresses / 
or serve with Maitre d'hdtel, Tartare, Tomato, or Curry 
sauce. Garnish with parsley and slices of lemon. 

Baked Fish. 

Cod, haddock, cusk, blue-fish, small salmon, bass, and 
shad may be stuffed, and baked whole. 



The Boston Cook Booh 163 



Stuffing for Baked Fish weighing from four to six Pounds, 



1 cup cracker crumbB. 

1 saltspoonf ul salt. 

2 saltspoonf ul pepper. 

1 teaspoonf ul chopped onion. 



1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 
1 teaspoonf ul capers. 
1 teaspoonf ul pickles. 
^ cup melted butter. 



This makes a dry, crumbly stuffing. If a moist stuffing 
be desired, use stale (not dried) bread crumbs, and moisten 
with one beaten egg and the butter ; or moisten the crackers 
with warm water. 

Oyster Stuffing. — One pint of oysters, one cup of seasoned 
and buttered cracker crumbs. Drain and roll each oyster in 
the crumbs. Fill the fish with the oysters, and sprinkle 
the remainder of the crumbs over the oysters. 

General Directions. — Fish bake through more evenly, 
brown better, and are more easily served, if placed upright 
in the pan instead of on one side. Fish that are broad 
and short, like shad, may be kept in place bj* propping 
with stale bread or pared potatoes. But all others that are 
narrow in proportion to the length may be skewered or 
tied into the shape of a letter 8 ; run a threaded trussing- 
needle through the head, middle of the body and tail in 
the direction indicated by the dotted line above; then 
draw the string tight, and fasten the ends. Fish thus 
prepared will keep their shape after baking. 

Have an iron sheet with rings at the ends for handles, 
and just large enough to fit into the dripping-pan. Rub 
the sheet well with salt pork, and put pieces of pork under 
the fish to keep it from sticking. This sheet will enable 
you to lift the fish from the pan and place it on the platter 
without breaking. If you have no sheet, put two broad 
strips 01 cotton cloth across the pan, before laying in the 
fish. When done, lift out on the cloth. Do not put water 
in the pan, unless you wish to steam instead of bake the 
fish. Put two or three slices cf fat salt pork over and 
near the fish, and when the floui has browned, baste 
often with the pork fat. Bake till brown, and baste 
often. 



164 The Boston Cook Book. 

No. 1. — Clean, wipe, and dry the fish ; rub with talt; 
stuff and sew. Cut gashes two inches apart on each side. 
Skewer into shape of §, and put it on the fish sheet Rub 
all over with soft butter, tall, and pepper. Put narrow strips 
of fat salt pork in the gashes. Dredge well with flour. 
Put it into a hot oven without water; baste when the 
flour is browned, and baste often afterwards. Remove it 



carefully from the flsh sheet, and place it on a hot platter. 
Draw out the strings or skewer, wipe off all the water or 
fat which runs from the fish, and remove the pieces of 
pork. Pour Hollandaise sauce around (not over) the 
fish, or serve a drawn butter sauce flavored with lemon, 
in a sauce-boat ; and pile Saratoga potatoes lightly around 
the fish. Garnish the head of the fish with parsley or 
watercreases. 

To serve the Fish. — Make an incision along the backbone 
the entire length of the fish ; then draw the fish away from 
the bone on each side, cutting at right angles with the 
bone. Raise the bone to reach the stuffing, and serve a 
little of the fish, stuffing, and sauce to each person. The 
skeleton should be left entire on the platter. 

No. 2. — Remove the head, tail, and skin. Rub well with 
talt and lemon juice. Stuff with oyster stuffing, and sew 
securely. Skewer it into shape, if long enough, or put 
it upright on a greased fish sheet, with bread to keep 
It in place. Or remove the bone, place the fish on a 
platter, and lay the prepared oysters between the layers 
of fish. Season cracker crumbt with sail, pepper, and 
chopped par tley, and moisten with melted butter. Brush the 



The Boston Cook Book. 165 



fish with beaten egg, then sprinkle with the crumbs. Set 
the platter in the oven over a pan of hot water to keep the 
platter from cracking. Bake from forty to sixty minutes. 
Serve with tomato or Hollandaise sauce poured around 
the fish. 

No. 3. Baked Halibut. — Three or four pounds of halibut. 
Dip the dark skin in boiling water, and scrape clean. Rub 
well with salt and pepper. Put it into a clean pan, and 
pour milk, over it till half an inch deep. Bake about an 
hour, basting with the milk. Remove the bone and skin, 
and arrange on the platter in the original form. Serve 
with plain drawn butter, egg sauce, or cream sauce, and 
garnish with slices of boiled eggs. The milk keeps the 
fish moist, is a good substitute for pork, and makes the 
fish brown better. Use just enough milk to baste, and 
let it cook away toward the last. Or sprinkle buttered 
crumbs over the top, when the fish is nearly done, and 
serve with tomato sauce. 

A large cod, or any whole fish too large for a small 
family, may be cooked as follows : Remove the skin and 
bones from the middle and thickest part ; stuff and bake. 
Use the bones and head for a chowder. Cut the tail 
piece into slices, salt well, and fry or broil them. Or crimp 
them by soaking in salted water ; then simmer in water 
with salt and lemon juice, and serve cold with Tartare 
sauce. 

Fried Fish. 

Mackerel, salmon, blue-fish, and all oily fish should 
never be fried. Smelts, perch, and other small pan-fish 
mav be fried whole. When fried smelts are used as a 
garnish, fry them in the shape of rings by pinning the tail 
in the mouth. Cod, halibut, etc., should be skinned and 
boned, and cut into slices one inch thick and two or three 
inches square. Flounder and bass may be cut in fillets, as 
described on page 161, and each fillet seasoned with salt 
and pepper, and fastened with a small wooden skewer- 
Small fish may be boned without parting in the middle, 



L 



1 66 The Boston Cook Book. 

• L . .. _. 1-,— . ....... - , V 

and rolled from tail to head. Fish for frying should be 
thoroughly cleaned and dried, seasoned with salt and 
pepper, and covered first with flour or fine bread crumbs, 
then dipped in beaten egg, then in crumbs again. If this 
does not cover them completely, repeat the process. 

When the fish has been kept on ice, let it become slightly 
warm before frying, as otherwise it will chill the fat and 
become greasy. Fry in deep, smoking hot fat. Observe 
the directions given for ftying on page 15, testing the fat 
first with bread ; and after the first plunge into the hot fat 
set the kettle back to keep from burning; then reheat 
before frying any more. Fry from two to five minutes. 
Drain and serve with tomato, or Tartare, or any acid 
sauce. Garnish with slices of pickle or lemon, and 
parsley. 

Arrange small fish with heads and tails alternating; 

or two or three on a 
skewer, one skewer 
for each person ; or 
in a circle round a 

Pio. 8. Small Fish served whole. * ilver CU P> placed in 

the centre of the 
platter and holding the sauce. Slices or rolled fillets may 
be arranged in a circle, with the sauce in the centre. 

Boiled Fish. 

Boiling is the most insipid and wasteful wa}* of cooking 
fish. To make boiled fish palatable, a rich sauce, like 
lobster, oyster, or shrimp sauce, is needed for all kinds 
except salmon and blue-fish. Salmon is so much richer 
and more oily than other fish that boiling does not injure 
it. Hollandaise and sauce piquante are appropriate for 
salmon. A fish kettle with a drainer for lifting out the 
fish is quite essential. Or 3'ou may put a small piece of 
fish in a wire basket or on a plate ; tie the plate in a 
square of cloth, and lift cloth, plate, and fish together. 
Never try to boil a fish whole, as nothing can be more 




The Boston Cook Book. 167 

unsightly than the head of a boiled fish. Clean the fish 
thoroughly, and remove the head, tail, and skin. Rub 
well with salt and. lemon juice. Fish should be of uniform 
thickness, to boil nicely. A small salmon or the middle cut 
of a large one, or the thickest part of cod or blue-fish, or a 
thick piece of halibut, should be selected for boiling. Cod, 
haddock, and cusk, unless perfectly fresh, will break in 
boiling. 

If fish be put into cold water, the juices are drawn out 
into the water. If cooked in rapidly boiling water, the 
fish breaks on the outside before the middle is done. The 
best and most economical way is to cook it in a steamer 
over boiling water. If that is not convenient, put the 
fish into boiling salted water, and simmer till done. Fish 
is cooked when the flesh separates easily from the bones, 
and should be taken up immediately, and well drained be- 
fore serving. A very good way of boiling fish is to steep 
it for five minutes in strongly salted boiling water, with one 
or two tabiespoonfuls of lemon juice, then plunge it into 
fresh boiling water without salt, and simmer till done. 
Less scum rises in the fresh water, and the fish looks 
whiter. Allow about six minutes to a pound for boiling ; 
more if in a cubical form than for a thin narrow piece of 
the same weight. 

- Serve boiled fish on a folded napkin, and the sauce in a 
sauce-boat. Parisienne potatoes boiled or fried and piled 
like cannon balls, alternating with parsley and button 
mushrooms ; or sliced pickles, fried oysters, Saratoga po- 
tatoes, slices of lemon, or hard-boiled eggs may be used 
as a garnish. If the fish break and look unsightly, re- 
move the bones, and flake it ; pile it lightly on a platter, 
and pour the sauce over the fish. 

To boil Fish au Court Bouillon. — Fish are improved by 
cooking in water flavored with vegetables and spices. 
Mince one onion, one stalk of celery, and two or three sprigs 
of parsley. Fry them in a little butter ; add two tabiespoon- 
fuls of salt, six peppercorns, a bay leaf, three cloves, two 
quarts of boiling water, and one pint of vinegar or sour 



1 68 The Boston Cook Book. 

twne. Boil fifteen minutes, skim well, strain, and keep 
to use in boiling fish. Rub the fish with salt and lemon 
juice, and put it into the boiling liquo*, and simmer till 
the flesh separates from the bone. 

Stewed Fish. — Any dry white fish or fresh-water fish 
may be stewed, and made into a very palatable and eco- 
nomical dish. Remove the skin, head, and bones from 
a four-pound fish. Cover the bones and head with cold 
water, and cook them for half an hour. Slice and scald 
two small onions. Drain, and fry them till yellow, in the 
fat obtained from a two-inch cube of salt pork. Pour it all 
into the kettle with the bones. Cut the fish into pieces 
two inches square, and season them with salt and pepper. 
Put them in a clean kettle with a little butter to keep them 
from sticking, and strain the boiling bone water over 
them, using just enough to cover. Add the juice of half 
a lemon, and when boiling thicken with one heaping table- 
spoonful of butter and two of flour cooked together. Sim- 
mer fifteen minutes. Add salt and pepper to taste, and 
one tablespoonful each of chopped parsley, and tomato or 
mushroom catchup, if desired ; or add one quart of drained 
oysters, and simmer till the oysters are plump. A Matelote 
of fish is the French name for fish stewed with wine. 

Fish a la Creme. 

Four to six pounds of fish , one to one and a half pints of 
cream sauce, and one cup of cracker crumbs, moistened in 
one third of a cup of melted butter. 

This is one of the most attractive and convenient 
methods of serving any kind of dr} 7 wljite fish, — cod, had- 
dock, or cusk. Clean the fish ; cook in boiling salted 
water with one tablespoonful of vinegar till the flesh sepa- 
rates easily. Drain, and when cool remove the skin and 
bones, and pick apart in flakes. Sprinkle well with salt 
and pepper. Make a rich white sauce. Put a la} T er of 
fish on a platter suitable for serving. Cover with the 
white sauce, letting the fish soak up all it will ; then arrange 



The Boston Cook Book. 169 

another layer of fish and sauce. Moisten cracker crumbs 
in melted butter, and spread over the top with a fork. 
Set the platter in the oven over a pan of hot water, to 
keep the platter from cracking, and bake till the crumbs 
are brown. Garnish with parsley. The whites of two or 
three eggs, beaten stiff and salted, are sometimes used in 
the place of crumbs, but are not so palatable. Two or 
three tablespoonfuls of grated cheese may be mixed with 
the crumbs, if you like the flavor. 

The sauce may be mixed with the fish ; but be careful 
not to mash the fish or get it too moist. Then the fish 
may be piled on the platter, higher and broader at one 
end and giving the outline of a flat fish ; or arranged in 
the form of a fish shaped like the letter S, and covered 
with the crumbs. Or, if the fish be not broken in boiling, 
take it up carefully on the drainer, remove the head, skin, 
and small bones from one side, put a platter over the fish 
and invert platter and fish together; then remove the 
skin and the backbone from the other side, leaving the fish 
as whole as possible. Cover with the sauce and crumbs, 
I and bake as above. This is not so desirable as the first 

method, because some fine bones are liable to be over- 
looked, and the sauce is not so well mixed with the fish. 

I Remnants of Cooked Fish. 

Remnants of cold boiled or baked fish (using stuffing 
and sauce also) may be freed from skin and bones, flaked, 

! and used in any of the following ways : — 

Scalloped Fish. — Tut fish and stuffing into a shallow dish 
in alternate layers, with cream sauce to moisten ; cover 
with buttered crumbs, and bake till the crumbs are brown. 

! Fish in Potato Border. — Warm the fish slightly in a 

white sauce, and put it in the centre of a dish with a border 
of mashed potatoes. Or, if you have enough material for 
a large platter, put the border on the edge and a higher 
mound of potatoes in the centre, and fill the space between 

\ with the fish. Sprinkle buttered crumbs lightly over the 

whole and set in the oven till brown. 



170 The Boston Cook Booh 

Chartreuse, or Casserole of Fish, No, 1. — 0»« cwp of any 
coW fish, flaked, seasoned, and moistened with a little 
cream ; the same quantity of mashed potatoes ; and two hard- 
boiled eggs. Butter a small mould and put in alternate lay- 
ers of potatoes, fish, and slices of egg. Steam twenty 
minutes, turn out upon a hot platter, and garnish with 
parsley. 

No. 2. — Mix one cup of stale bread crumbs, one pint of 
cold fish, flaked, and two eggs. Season to taste with Wor- 
cestershire or tomato catchup, salt, and cayenne pepper. Put 
into a buttered mould. Boil thirty minutes, and serve 
with any fish sauce. 

Kedgeree. — Warm cold flaked fish slightly over hot 
water; and just before serving stir in one egg, beaten 
with one or two tablespoonfuls of hot milk and a bit of butter, 
and serve in a rice border. Steam the rice, one cupful, in 
two cupfuls of highly seasoned stock, in a double boiler thirty 
minutes, or till tender and dry. 

Curried Fish. — Warm any cold flaked fish in curry 
sauce, page 190. 

Creamed Fish with Oysters. — Add an equal amount of 
oysters to the fish, and cook in white sauce till the oysters 
are plump. Garnish with points of toast. 

Spiced Fish. — Steep six cloves, six allspice kernels, six 
peppercorns, and one taUespoonful of brown sugar in one cup 
of sharp vinegar ten minutes, and pour it over one pint of 
any cold flaked fish. 

Crimped Fish. 

Soak slices of any firm white fresh fish in very strongly 
salted water. Put them into boiling salted water enough 
to cover, with two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and boil about 
ten minutes. Drain ; arrange on a platter ; remove the 
skin and bones. Serve hot with .oyster or lobster sauce, 
or cold with a Mayonnaise or Tartare sauce poured 
into the cavity left by the bone. Garnish with water* 
cresses. 



The Boston Cook Book. 171 



Potted Fish. 

Three shad or six small mackerel, uncooked ; one third of a 
cup of salt with half a saltspoonful of cayenne pepper mixed 
with it, and half a cup of whole spices, — cloves, peppercorns? 
and allspice mixed in about equal proportions. Vine- 
gar to cover. Clean, remove the skin, split in halves, cut 
each half into three pieces, and remove all the larger bones. 
Pack the fish in la} T ers in a small stone jar. (Earthenware 
must not be used on account of the vinegar.) Sprinkle 
the salt and spices over each layer. Add one onion sliced 
thin, if you do not dislike the flavor. Add vinegar enough 
to completely cover the fish. Tie a thick paper over the 
top, or tie a cloth over and cover with a crust of dough to 
keep in all the steam. Bake in a very moderate oven five 
or six hours. Remove the dough-crust, and when cooled 
cover, and keep in a cool place. 

This will keep some time, if the fish be kept under the 
vinegar ; the bones will be dissolved, and it makes an ex- 
cellent relish for lunch or tea. 

Rules for Fish Salad, Croquettes, and Chowder are given 
elsewhere. 



Salt Fish Balls. 



1 cnp raw salt fish. 

1 pint potatoes. 

1 teaspoonf ul butter. 



1 egg> well beaten. 
}£ saltspoohful pepper. 
More salt, if needed. 



Wash the fish, pick in half-inch pieces, and free from 
bones. Pare the potatoes, and cut in quarters. Put the 
potatoes and fish in a stewpan, and cover with boiling 
water. Boil twenty-five minutes, or till the potatoes are 
soft. Be careful not to let them boil long enough to be- 
come soggj r . Drain off all the water ; mash and beat the 
fish and potatoes till very light. Add the butter and 
pepper, and when slightly cooled add the egg and more 
salt, if needed. Shape in a tablespoon without smoothing 
much, slip them off into a basket, and fry in smoking hot 



172 • The Boston Cook Booh 

lard one minute. Fry only five at a time, as more will 
cool the fat. The lard should be hot enough to brown a 
piece of bread while you count forty. Or, first dipping 
the spoon in the fat, take up a spoonful of the fish and 
plunge it into the hot fat. Drain on soft paper. 

These fish balls should be mixed while the potatoes "and 
fish are hot. If you wish to prepare them the night 
before, omit the egg, and in the morning warm the fish 
and potato in a double boiler, then add the egg. Keep the 
fish in a bowl of cold water while picking it apart, and 
it will need no further soaking. 

Contrarj T to all old theories, boiling the fish with the 
potato does not harden it. When well mashed and beaten 
with a strong fork, the fish will only be recognized in the 
potato by the taste, and not by the presence of hard, lumpy 
pieces. Never chop salt fish. If picked apart into small 
pieces and then rubbed with a potato masher till it is re- 
duced to fine threads, it will blend with any mixture 
better than it will when chopped. These are the most 
quickly prepared and the most delicious fish balls ever 
made, and are worthy the superlative adjectives which 
have been given them bj T enthusiastic pupils. 
• Fish Hash. — The same mixture as above, cooked in a 
little salt pork fat in a frying-pan till brown, and turned 
out like an omelet. 

Fish Souffle. — Prepare the fish as for fish balls ; add two 
tablespoonfuls of cream and two eggs, beaten separatety ; and 
bake in a buttered dish. 

To prepare Salt Fish for Cooking. 

Soak over night in cold water with the skin side up, that 
the salt may be drawn out ; or, if }*ou can, strip the skin 
off before soaking. By changing the water often, less time 
will be required. Salt mackerel and other small corned fish 
should be broiled. Salt codfish should be put on the stove 
in fresh water and kept warm, but not boiling, till softened. 
Then remove the bones and skin, and flake in delicate 
pieces. Serve with egg or cream sauce, potatoes, sweet heets\ 



The Boston Cook Book. 173 

carrots, and onions, and crisp salt pork scraps, and you have 
the old-fashioned salt fish dinner. 

Creamed Salt Fish. — Serve one cup of the picked up 
fish in a rich cream sauce with potato border or on toast. 

Mock Oyster Stew. {Mrs. S. M Bailey.) — Prepare one 
cup of salt fish by washing, shredding, and simmering till 
soft ; when ready to serve, put it in a shallow dish with 
one pint of oyster crackers or three butter crackers split and 
browned, and pour over it one pint of hot milk. Add a 
tablespoonful of butter and half a saUspoonful of pepper, and 
serve. 

Scorched Sctlt Fish. — Pick a small piece of the thickest 
part of salt fish into long flakes. If very salt, soak a few 
minutes in cold water. Brown over hot coals. Spread 
with butter, and serve hot. Fish thus prepared is a nice 
relish with potatoes which have been roasted in the ashes. 
It will also tempt a convalescent. Smoked salmon or hali- 
but may be prepared in the same manner. 

Tongues and Sounds. — Soak them in warm water several 
hours, or till freshened ; scrape off the skin. Cut them in 
small pieces and heat slowly in milk or water. Make a 
thin white sauce to pour over them, and serve on toast 
garnished with hard-boiled eggs. 

Pish Roes, Fried. 

Wash the roes and cook them ten minutes in boiling 
salted water with one tablespoonful of vinegar. Then 
plunge them into cold water. Drain, and roll in beaten 
egg, then in seasoned crumbs, and fry till brown in smok- 
ing hot fat. 

Scalloped Roes. — Boil the roes as in the preceding re- 
ceipt. Drain, and break up lightly with a fork. Sprinkle 
a layer of the roe in a shallow dish ; then rub the yolk of 
hard-boiled egg through a fine strainer. Add a sprinkling 
of parsley and a little lemon juice. Moisten with a thin 
white sauce. Then another layer of roe, egg, seasoning, 
and sauce. Cover with buttered crumbs and bake tiL 



174 



The Boston Cook Booh. 



brown. If a larger dish be required, use with the roes 
any cold JlaJced fish, or a small quantity of cooked rice. 

Small Fresh Fish Baked in a Crust. 

Clean the fish, and wipe dry. Cut gashes one inch apart 
on each side ; sprinkle with salt and pepper. Make a rich 
biscuit crust with baking-powder, or make a pastry crust ; 
roll it out half an inch thick ; wrap the fish in the crust, 
pinch the edges together, and bake about half an hour. 
Serve with egg sauce. 



Table of the Cost, etc., of Fish. 





Cost, 


Weight. 


How sold. 


When in 
Season. 


Cod. 


8 cts. per lb. 


3 to 20 lbs. 


Whole. 




Haddock. 


6 to 8 cts. per lb. 


5 to 8 lbs. 


Whole. 




Cask. 


8 cts. per lb. 


5 to 8 lbs. 


Whole. 


Winter. 


Halibut. 


12 to 20 cts. per lb. 


* 


By the lb. 




Flounders. 


6 to 10 cts. per lb. 


i to 5 lbs. 


Whole. 




Salmon. 


25 to 50 cts. per lb. 




By the lb. 


May to Sept 


Shad. 


$1.25 in March, 
25 cts. in May. 




Whole. 


Spring. 


Blue-fish. 


7 to 15 cts. per lb. 


4 to 10 lbs. 


Whole. 


June to Oct. 


Tautog. 


12 cts. per lb. 




Whole. 


July to Sept. 


White-fish. 


20 cts. per lb. 


4 lbs. 


Whole. 


Winter. 


Bass. 


12 to 25 cts. per lb. 


3 to 8 lbs. 


Whole. 




Sword-fish. 


15 cte. per lb. 


f Average 
j 8 to a lb. 


By the lb. 


July to Sept. 


Smelts. 
Perch. 


10 to 25 cts. per lb. 
20 cts. per dozen. 




Sept. to March. 
Summer. 


Pickerel. 


15 cts. per lb. 


1 to 4 lbs. 


Whole. 




Trout, Brook. 


75 cts. per lb. 




Whole. 


Spring. 


Mackerel. 


5 to 25 cts. each. 




Whole. 


April to Oct. 


Eels. 


15 cts. per lb. 


\ to 1 lb. 


Whole. 




Lobsters. 


12 cts. per lb. 


1 to 2 lbs. 






Oysters. 


35 to 50 cts. per qt. 






Sept. to May. 


Clams. 


20 cts. per qt. ; 40 cts. 
per pk. in the shell. 






• 


Crabs. 


$1.25 to $1.50 per 
aozen. 






Summer. 


Herring. 


20 cts. per dozen. 






Mar. and Apr. 


Salt Cod Fish. 


10 cts. per lb., best. 








Smoked Fish. 


20 to 35 cts. per lb. 


• 







Where no time is specified the fish are always in 



Ths Boston Cook Book. 175 



SHELL FISH. 

Oysters, Clam*, Scallops, Lobsters, Grabs, Shrimps, and 
Prawns are the principal varieties of shell fish used as 
food. 

Oysters. 

These shell fish are found in perfection in the cool waters 
of the Northern Atlantic coast. The Blue Points from 
Long Island are considered the best in the New York 
market. The Wareham and Providence River are equally 
esteemed in Boston. Oysters are neither healthful nor 
well flavored from May to September ; at all other times 
they are used more extensively and are more highly prized 
than any other shell fish. They are nutritious, and are 
easily digested when fresh and eaten raw, or when only 
slightly cooked. When over-cooked, they are tough and 
leathery. Oysters should never be kept long after being 
taken from the shell ; and if to be used raw, should not 
be opened till just before using. 

Oysters cooked in the Shells. — Wash and scrub the shells, 
and put them in a pan with the round side down (to hold 
the juice), and cook either in a hot oven, on the top of a 
hot stove, on a gridiron over the coals, or in a steamer, 
ten to twenty minutes. When the shells open, the oysters 
are done. Remove the upper shell ; season the oyster on 
the lower shell with butter, pepper, salt, and vinegar, and 
serve at once. Or take from the shells, put into a hot 
dish, season, and serve immediately. There is no other 
way of cooking the oyster in which the natural flavor is 
so fully developed. 

Saw Oysters. — Open the oysters ; look them over care- 
fully ; remove any fine pieces of shell which may adhere to 
them ; then season slightly with salt and pepper, and let 



176 The Boston Cook Book. 

them stand half an hour in the ice chest. Serve on fancy 
oyster plates, or on the deep half-shell, with slices of lemon. 
Serve with small squares of buttered brown bread. 

Oysters on Ice. — Put a rectangular block of clear ice, 
having smooth, regular surfaces, in a large pan. With a 
hot brick or flat-iron melt a cavity large enough to hold 
the desired number of oysters. Pour the water from the 
cavity, and fill with 0}'sters, which should first be drained, 
and seasoned with salt and pepper. Place a thick napkin 
on a platter, put the ice upon this, cover the dish with 
parsley or smilax, and garnish with lemon. The ice is some- 
times roughly chipped to resemble a rock. If the dinner 
be served from the sideboard, individual plates of ice are 
made. 

To prepare Oysters for Cooking. — Pour half a cup of cold 
water over one quart of oysters ; then with clean hands 
take out the oysters separately and remove any bits of 
shell or seaweed. Serious accidents have often resulted 
from the presence of pieces of shell. The crabs which 
are found among the oysters are considered a delicacy' 
and should be saved. The oyster liquor is seldom used, 
as enough comes from the 03'sters in cooking ; but, if de- 
sired, it should be strained before using. The 0} r sters may 
then be cooked in any of the following ways. 

To cook or parboil Oysters in their Liquor. — Put them 
in a saucepan without water ; stir them, or shake the pan 
slightty ; as soon as heated, sufficient liquor comes from 
them to keep them from burning. When the edges curl or 
ruffle, and the oysters look plump instead of flat, the}* 
are cooked. Season with salt, pepper, and butter, and 
serve as a plain roast; or pour on toast, and call it a 
fancy roast. 

For Oyster Stew, see page 154. 

Smothered Oysters. — Put one tablespoonful of butter in a 
covered saucepan with half a saltspoonful of white pepper, 
one teaspoonful of salt, and a few grains of cayenne pepper. 
When hot, add one pint of oysters carefully prepared. 
Cover closely, and shake the pan to keep the oysters from 



The Boston Cook Book. 177 

sticking ; cook two or three minutes, or till plump. Serve 
on toasted crackers. 

Creamed Oysters. — Make one cup of thick cream sauce 
(see page 190), and season with salt, pepper, cayenne, and 
celery salt. Wash and pick over one pint of oysters, and 
parboil until plump. Skim carefully ; drain and add them 
to the sauce. Serve on toast, and garnish the dish with 
points of toast; or the toast may be omitted, and bread 
crumbs browned in butter sprinkled over the oysters. 
When served in patty shells or in a vol-au-vent, make the 
cream sauce thicker. 

Fricasseed Oysters. — Cook one pint of oysters in hot but' 
ter, till plump, as directed for smothered oysters. Drain, 
and keep the oysters hot, and add enough cream to the 
oyster liquor to- make one cupful. Cook one tablespoonful 
of flour in one tablespoonful of hot butter. Add slowly the 
hot cream and oyster liquor. Season with one teaspoonful 
of lemon juice, salt, and pepper to taste. Pour the sauce 
into one well-beaten egg, add the hot oysters, and heat one 
minute. Serve on toast, if for breakfast; or in paper 
cases, or patties, if for lunch or dinner. 

Scalloped Oysters. — One pint of solid oysters, washed 
and drained ; one third of a cup of melted butter; one cup of 
cracker or stale bread crumbs, moistened in the melted but-, 
ter. Butter a shallow dish ; put in a layer of crumbs) 
then a layer of oysters ; season with salt and pepper; and, 
if you like, add Worcestershire sauce, lemon juice, wine, or 
mace. Then put in another layer of crumbs, then oysters 
and seasoning, with a thick layer of crumbs on the top. 
Bake in a hot oven about twenty minutes, until the crumbs 
are brown. Many prefer to heat the oyster liquor and 
the butter with an equal quantity of milk or cream, and 
use more cracker. Moisten each layer of cracker with the 
hot liquid. Reserve the larger part of the butter for the 
top layer of crumbs. In this way a larger dish may be 
prepared with the same quantity of oysters. 

Oysters en Coquille. — Prepare as* for scalloped oysters. 
Put one or two very large or several smaller oysters in 

12 



178 The Boston Cook Book. 

oyster or scallop shells ; season, and cov?r with buttered 
crumbs. Bake till the crumbs are brown. Vace the shells 
on small plates, and serve one to each pen m. 

Large scallop shells may be obtained at the fish market, 
then cleaned and used several times. Tin, granite, or 
silver shells may also be used. 

Oy stern and Mushrooms in Crusts. — Bake Parker- House- 
roll dough in round pans, or as small round biscuit placed 
some distance apart. When cold, cut a slice from the top 
of each, and remove the soft inside without breaking 
through the crust. Fill with the following mixture : — 

Parboil half a pint of oysters. Strain, and save the liquor. 
Cut the oysters fine, and mix with them half a can of 
chopped mushrooms. Mix the oyster liquor and mush- 
room juice with enough cream to make one pint in all. 
Pour this hot liquid slowly on one tablespoonfnl of butter 
and three of flour cooked together. Season highly with 
salt, pepper, lemon juice, and cayenne. Pour this into the 
crusts, and serve at once. This dish is acceptable to 
those who cannot eat oysters in puff-paste patties. 

Pigs in Blankets, or Huitres au Lit. — Season large oys- 
ters with salt and pepper. Cut very thin slices of fat 
bacon ; wrap each oyster in a slice of bacon, and fasten 
with a wooden skewer. Put in a hot omelet pan, and 
cook just long enough to crisp the bacon. Serve on small 
pieces of delicate toast. 

Fried Oysters. — Wash the oysters, drain, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, and let them stand twenty minutes. Roll 
first in seasoned crumbs, then dip in beaten egg mixed with 
one tablespoonful of milk ; roll in crumbs again, and fry one ' 
minute in smoking hot lard. Drain on paper, and garnish 
with chopped or sliced pickle, or chowchow. ' Serve with cold 
slaw or celery salad. 

Fried oysters are much better, and spatter less in frying, 
if parboiled slightly and drained before rolling in the 
crumbs. When only a few are wantecf, and those espe- 
cially nice, select the large oysters, roll them in fine crumbs, 
then in Mayonnaise dressing, then in crumbs again, and fry. 



The Boston Cook Book. 179 

Sauted OystP: — Prepare as 'for frying, and brown on 
each side in . . butter ; or roll in the cracker only, and 
brown them. 

Oysters in Fritter Batter, see page 107. 

Broiled Oysters. — Pick over, and drain large oysters. 
Dip in melted butter, then in fine cracker crumbs seasoned 
with salt and pepper. Butter a fine wire gridiron ; put 
the oysters in closely, and broil till the juice flows. Some 
prefer to broil them without the crumbs, but more juice is 
lost in this way. 

Pickled Oysters. — Cook one quart of oysters in their 
liquor, till plump. Remove the oysters, and add to the 
liquor half a cup of good cider vinegar. Skim as it boils, 
and add one teaspoonful of salt, two blades of mace, ten 
cloves, ten peppercorns, ten allspice berries, and a few grains 
of cayenne pepper. Boil five minutes. Pour the liquor 
over the oysters, and when cold seal in glass jars, and put 
in a cool dark place. They will keep two weeks. 

Clams. 

Thin shell clams, and round shell clams, or quahaugs, 
furnish a delicious and wholesome form of food if eaten 
only when fresh. They are more easily opened and have 
a finer flavor when cooked in the shells. 

Steamed Clams. — Wash and scrub the shells. Put them 
in a kettle without water, cover closely, and cook till the 
shells open. Take them out with a skimmer, pour .the 
clam water into a pitcher, and let it settle. Straining is 
not sufficient, as the fine sand will go through the finest 
strainer ; but the water will be clear if care be taken not 
to disturb the sediment. Remove the clams from the 
shells, peel off the thin skin around the edge, and cut off 
the whole of the black end. Scissors are better than a 
knife for this purpose. Rinse each clam in a little of the 
clam water, and if very large, cut the tough part into 
small pieces. When the water is clear, pour it into a 
saucepan, add the clams, and heat again till just hot, but 



180 The Boston Cook Book. 



do not let them boil. Serve with brown bread, or toasted 
crackers; and let each person season them to taste with 
melted butter, pepper, and vinegar. 

Scalloped Clams. — Prepare the clams as in steamed 
clams. Make a white sauce , as for fish (see page 189) ; 
put the clams in a shallow dish or in clean shells ; cover 
with the sauce and buttered crumbs, and bake till brown. 

For Clam Soup, Clam Chowder, and Clam Fritters, see 
the Index. 

A Clam Bake. 

An impromptu clam bake may be had at any time at 
low tide along the coast where clams are found. If you 
wish to have genume fun, and to know what an appetite 
one ean have for the bivalves, make up a pleasant party 
and dig for the clams yourselves. A short thick dress, 
shade hat, rubber boots, — or, better still, no boots at all, 
if you can bring your mind to the comfort of bare feet, 
— a small garden trowel, a fork, and a basket, and you are 
read}*. Let those who are not digging gather a large pile 
of driftwood and seaweed, always to be found along the 
shore. Select a dozen or more large stones, and of them 
make a level floor ; pile the driftwood upon them, and make 
a good brisk fire to heat the stones thoroughly. When hot 
enough to crackle as you Sprinkle water upon them, brush 
off the embers, letting them fall between the stones. Put 
a thin layer' of seaweed on the hot stones, to keep the 
lower clams from burning. Rinse the clams in salt water 
by plunging the basket which contains them in the briny 
pools near by. Pile them over the hot stones, heaping 
them high in the centre. Cover with a thick layer of sea- 
weed, and a piece of old canvas, blanket, carpet, or dry 
leaves, to keep in the steam. The time for baking will 
depend upon the size and quantity of the clams. Peep in 
occasionally at those around the edge. When the shells 
are open, the clams are done. They are delicious eaten 
from the shell, with no other sauce than their own briny 
sweetness. Melted butter, pepper, and vinegar should be 



The Boston Cook Book. 181 



ready for those who wish them ; then all may " fall to." 
Fingers must be used. A Rhode Islander would laugh at 
any one trying to use a knife and fork. Pull off the thin 
skin, take them by the black end, dip them in the prepared 
butter, and bite off dose to the end. If you swallow them 
whole, they will not hurt you. At a genuine Rhode Island 
clam bake, blue-fish, lobsters, crabs, sweet potatoes, and 
ears of sweet corn in their gauzy husks are baked with 
the clams. The clam steam gives them a delicious flavor. 
Brown bread is served with the clams, and watermelon for 
dessert completes the feast 

Scallops. 

This shell fish has a round, deeply grooved shell. The 
muscle which unites the shell is the only part eaten. Scal- 
lops have a sweet flavor, and are in season during the fall 
and winter. They may be stewed like oysters, but are 
better fried. 

Fried Scallops. — Pick over, and wash quickly ; drain 
between towels; season fine cracker crumbs with salt and 
pepper. Dip the scallops in the crumbs, then in beaten egg, 
and again in crumbs. Fry in smoking hot fat, and serve 
at once. 

Lobsters. 

The markets are now so well supplied with these deli- 
cious shell fish, that they may be obtained in good condi- 
tion all the year. The canned lobster is also convenient 
in an emergency, for use in soups and salads. Lobsters 
are put alive into boiling salted water, and cooked twenty 
minutes from the time the water boils. They should not 
be eaten until cold, and never be kept more than eighteen 
hours after boiling. Lobsters are diflScult of digestion, 
and should be eaten with mustard, cayenne pepper, and 
lemon juice or vinegar. 

To Choose a Lobster. — Select one of medium size, heavy 
in proportion to the siz$. Those with hard, solid shells, 
streaked with black, will be found full of meat; those witn 



1 82 The Boston Cook Book. 



thin shells are water} 7 . If the tail spring back quickly 
when straightened, the lobster is fresh. 

To Open a Lobster. — Wipe the shell with a wet cloth. 
Break off the large claws, separate the tail from the body 
and the body from the shell, leaving the stomach, or lady, 
in the shell; then remove the small claws. Save the 
green liver and coral. Crush the tail by pressing the 
sides together, then pull it open on the under side, and 
take out the meat in one piece. Draw back the flesh 
on the upper end of this meat, and remove the intestinal 
canal, which runs the -entire length. This is sometimes 
black, and sometimes the color of the meat. Break off all 
the gills on the body before picking the meat from the 
joints, as they are liable to drop off with the meat, and 
are too woolly to be palatable. The gills, stomach, and 
intestines are the only parts not eaten. Break the body 
in the middle, and pick the meat from the joints, being 
careful not to take any of the bones. When the shells of 
the large claws are thin, cut off a strip down the sharp 
edge, and remove the meat whole; or break them by 
hammering on the edge. Never pound them in the mid- 
dle, as that crushes the meat. If the lobster shqjFis to 
be used for serving the meat, cut down the under sUle of 
the tail with a sharp knife, and remove the meat without 
breaking the outside shell. Trim the inside, and clean 
the shell. The body shell may be cleaned, split in halves, 
and trimmed with sharp scissors into the shape of clam 
shells. 

Plain Lobster. — The simplest way of serving lobster is 
by many considered the best. Remove the meat from the 
shell, and arrange in a tasteful manner; or cut it into 
small pieces. Let each person season to taste with salt, 
pepper, vinegar, and oil, or melted butter. 

Stewed Lobster. — Cut the lobster fine ; put it in a stew- 
pan, with a little milk or cream. Boil up once ; add one 
tablespoonful of butter, a little pepper, and serve plain or on 
toasted crackers. Cook lobster just long enough to heat it) 
as a longer cooking renders it tough. 



The Boston Cook Book. 183 

Creamed Lobster. — For one pint of lobster meat cut fine, 
make one pint of white tauce (see page 189). Season with 
tail, cayenne, and lemon. Heat the lobster in tbe sauce, 
but do not let it boil. Serve on toatt. 

Curried Lobster. — Make a curry sauce (see page 190), 
and warm tbe diced lobster in the sauce. 



FiQ. ft Scalloped Lcbiter. 

Scalloped Lobster. — Season one pint of lobster, cut into 
dice, with soli, pepper, and cayenne. Mix with one cap 
of creamjauce (see page 190) ; fill the lobster shells, using 
tbe tail shells of two lobsters. Cover the meat with 
cracker crumbs, moistened with melted butter. Bake till 
the crumbs are brown. Put the two shells together on a 
platter, with the tail ends out, to look like a long canoe. 
Lay the small claws over the side to represent oa*s. Gar- 
nish with parsley. The lobster may also be served in 
scallop shells. 

Devilled Lobster. — The same as the preceding receipt, 
with the addition of more salt, pepper, and cayenne; add, 
also, chopped parsley, onion juice, mustard, and Worcester- 
thire sauce. 

For Lobster Soup, Chowder, Cutlets, Croquettes, and Salad, 
see the Index. 

Crabs. 

These are found near the coast of the Southern and 
Middle States, and are considered such a luxury in Mary- 
land that special means are taken for their propagation. 
They are usually quite expensive in Eastern markets. 



1&4- Th e Boston Cook Book. 

Crabs, like lobsters, shed their shell annually. When the 
new shell is forming, they are called soft shell crabs, and 
are highly esteemed by epicures. 

Soft Shell Grabs. — Use them only when freshly caught, 
as the shells harden after twenty-four hours. Pull off the 
sand bags, and the shaggy substance from the side ; then 
wash, and wipe dry ; sprinkle with salt and pepper; roll in 
crumbs, then in egg, again in crumbs ; and fry in smoking 
hot lard. 

Boiled Crabs. — These should be heavy, of medium size, 
and with stiff joints. Plunge them head first into boiling 
water, and cook fifteen minutes ; then remove the outside 
shells and the shaggy substance, rinse in hot water, and 
arrange on a platter. They are eaten from the shell. 

Scalloped Crabs. — Pick the meat from the shells, mince 
it, and mix with a cream sauce ; season with salt and pep- 
per, put the mixture in the crab shell or in scallop shells, 
cover with buttered cracker crumbs, and bake till brown. 

Devilled Crabs. — Prepare as for scalloped crabs, add- 
ing mustard^ cayenne pepper, and lemon juice* to the 
seasoning. 

. Grab Salad. — Mix the meat with a Mayonnaise dress- 
ing, pack in the crab shells, and garnish with sliced lemon 
and cresses. 

» 

Shrimps. 

Shrimps- and Prawns are found in the summer season on 
the Southern coasts. They are similar in form to a 
lobster, but very small. They should be cooked in boiling 
salted water from five to eight minutes. Remove the 
shells and head ; the part that is eaten resembles in shape 
the tail of a lobster. They are used in fish sauces, and 
are very effective as a garnish. 

Shrimp Salad and Shrimps en CoquiUe may be prepared 
like lobster. Oanned shrimps are generally used in East- 
ern markets. 

Scalloped Shrimps. — Make a tomato sauce (see page 193). 
Pick over one can of shrimps, and heat them in the sauce ; 



The Boston Cook Book. 185 

add one glass of wine. Turn into a scallop dish, cover 
with buttered crumbs, and bake till the crumbs are brown. 



Reptiles. 

Fried Frogs. — Frogs are. considered a delicacy by those 
who have cultivated a taste for them. If not already pre- 
pared for cooking, remove the skin from the hind legs, 
which is the only part used. Dip in crumbs, seasoned 
with salt and pepper, then in egg, and again in crumbs. 
Wipe the bone at the end ; put in a basket, and fry one 
minute in smoking hot fat. Drain, and serve in a circle, 
around a centre of green peas. Some parboil them three 
minutes in boiling salted water and a little lemon juice, 
before frying. 

Frogs' legs may also be broiled, or they may be made 
into a white or brown fricassee, seasoned with mushrooms 
or tomato catchup. 

Terrapin, 

This expensive member of the turtle family is highly 
prized in Baltimore and Philadelphia, but seldom used 
in New England. Terrapin may be kept alive through 
the winter by putting them in a barrel, where they will 
not freeze, and feeding them occasionallj' with vegetable 
parings. Before cooking, soak them in strong salt water. 
Put them alive into boiling water, and boil rapidly ten 
or fifteen minutes. Remove the black outside skin from 
the shells, and the nails from the claws. Wash in warm 
water ; then put them on again, in fresh boiling water ; 
add a little salt, and boil about three quarters of an hour, 
or until the under shell cracks. Open them carefully over 
a bowl to save the gravy, remove the under shell, the sand 
bags, the head, and the gall bladder from the liver. If 
the gall bladder be broken in the process, the whole dish 
will be ruined by the escaping gall. Put the upper shells 
on to boil again in the same water, and boil until tender ; 
watch them carefully, and take each out as soon as 



V J* 



1 86 The Boston Cook Book. 

tender. Pick the liver and meat from the upper shell, and 
cut into several pieces. The intestines are used with the 
meat in winter, when the turtle is in a torpid condition ; 
but in the summer the}' should be thrown away. Boil the 
intestines bj 7 themselves one hour. This should be pre- 
pared the day before. Heat the meat in the gravy. To 
each terrapin add one wineglass/id of cream, half a cup of 
butter, a little salt, cayenne, and one wineglassful of sherry. 
Use the turtle eggs if there be anj* ; if not, the yolks of 
two hard-boiled eggs to each terrapin. Rub smooth, mixing 
with raw yolk enough to make into balls the size of tur- 
tle eggs. Add these and the wine just as you send the 
dish to the table. 

Green Turtle Soup. 

The green turtle is highly prized on account of the deli- 
cious quality of its flesh ; but as it is very large and ex- 
pensive the canned turtle is more generally used. 

One can of green turtle, one quart of brown stock, two 
tablespoonfuls each of butter and flour, one lemon. Cut the 
green fat into dice and lay it aside. Simmer the remain- 
der of the turtle meat in the stock for half an hour. 
Brown the flour in the browned butter, add it to the soup, 
season highty with salt and pepper. Serve with thin slices 
of lemon, egg balls, and the reserved green fat. 



i 

1 



The Boston Cook Book. 187 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES. 

Drawn Butter, or water and melted butter thickened 
with flour, and seasoned, is the simplest form of a sauce. 

When milk, or cream, or white stock is used in place of 
water, less butter is required, and the sauce is called White, 
or Cream, or Bechamel sauce. 

By browning the butter, using brown stock, and adding 
different seasoning materials, we have all the varieties of 
Brown sauces. 

Many people fail in making sauces by not cooking the 
flour sufficiently, and also by serving them with a mass of 
oily butter on the surface. Usually the flour is wet to a 
smooth paste and stirred into the boiling liquid. When 
made in this manner, the sauce should boil at least ten min- 
utes to have the flour thoroughly cooked. But by cooking 
the dry flour in the hot butter the starch in the flour is 
more quickly cooked, and the butter is all absorbed and 
converted into an emulsion. Sauces made in this manner 
are perfectly smooth, free from grease, and have a fine 
flavor. Every one should learn how to make both white 
and brown sauces. They are adapted to nearly every 
form of food. Meats, fish, vegetables, eggs, macaroni, 
rice, toast, etc., are rendered more palatable by being 
served with an appropriate sauce. 

Drawn Butter Sauce. 



1 pint hot water or 

white stock. 
% cup butter, scant 



2 tablespoonf uls flour. 
% teaspoonf ul salt. 
% saltspoonf ul pepper. 



Put half the butter in a saucepan ; be careful not to let 
it become brown ; when melted, add the dry flour, and mix 



1 88 The Boston Cook Book 

well. Add the hot water, a little at a time, and stir 
rapidly as it thickens. When perfectly smooth, add the 
remainder of the butter in small pieces, and stir tili it is 
absorbed. Add the salt and pepper. When carefully 
made, this sauce should be free from lumps; but if not 
smooth, strain it before serving. 

The following sauces may be made with one pint of 
this plain drawn butter as a foundation : — 

Caper Sauce (for Boiled Mutton). — Add six tablespoon* 
fuls of capers. Pickled Nasturtium seeds may be used in 
place of capers. 

Egg Sauce (for Baked or Boiled Fish). — Add two or 
three hard-boiled eggs, sliced or chopped. 

Parsley Sauce (for Boiled Fish or Fowls). — Add two 
tablespoonfvh of chopped parsley. 

Lemon Sauce (for Boiled Fowl). — Add the juice and 
pulp of one large lemon , and the chicken liver boiled and 
mashed fine. 

Shrimp Sauce (for Fish) . — Add half a pint of shrimps, 
whole or chopped, two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice, and a few 
grains of cayenne pepper. 

Acid Sauce. — Add one taUespoonful of lemon juice or 
vinegar, and a few grains of cayenne pepper. 

Mustard Sauce (for Devilled Turkey, Salt Fish, etc.). — 
Add three taUespoonfuls of mixed mustard and a little cayenne 
pepper. 

Lobster Sauce (for Boiled Fish) . — One pint of lobster 
meat, cut. into quarter-inch dice. Put the inner shells and 
scraggy parts in one and a half pints of cold water, and 
boil fifteen minutes. Strain and use the water in making 
one pint of drawn butter sauce. Add the lobster dice, the 
dried and powdered coral, a little cayenne pepper, and 
two tablespoonfuh of lemon juice. 

Oyster Sauce (for Boiled Fish, Turkey, or Chicken). — 
Parboil one pint of oysters ; drain, and use the oyster liquor 
in making one pint of drawn bntter sauce. Season with 
celery salt and cayenne pepper. Add the oysters ; cook one 
minute longer, and pour it over the fish or chicken. Add 



The Boston Cook Book. 189 

the beaten yolk of one egg or one glass of claret wine, if you 
wish a richer sauce. 

Celery Sauce (for Boiled Fowl). — One pint of the ten- 
der part of celery, cut very fine. Cook in boiling salted 
water, enough to cover, till tender. Drain ; add enough 
hot water to that in which the celery was cooked to make 
a pint, and use it in making one pint of drawn butter 
sauce. Add the cooked celery and the seasoning. 

Bicker Drawn Butter Sauce. — Make a plain drawn 
butter sauce, and when ready to serve, pour it boiling hot 
into the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Stir thoroughly, 
season to taste, and serve at once. 

Sauce Piquante. — Add one tablespoonful each of vinegar 
and lemon juice, two tablespoonfuls each of chopped capers, 
pickles, and olives, half a teaspoonful of onion juice, and a 
few grains of cayenne pepper, to one pint of drawn butter* 

White Sauce (for Vegetables, Chicken, Eggs, etc.). 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls flour. 
% teaspoonful salt. 
% saltspoonf ul pepper. 



1 pint milk, or half milk and half 
white stock. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 



Heat the milk over hot water. Put the butter in a 
granite saucepan, and stir till it melts and bubbles. Be 
careful not to brown it. Add the dry flour, and stir 
quickly till well mixed. Pour on one third of the milk. 
Let it boil, and stir well as it thickens ; tip the saucepan 
slightly to keep the sauce from sticking. Add another 
third of the milk ; let it boil up and thicken, and stir vig- 
orously till perfectly smooth. Be sure that all the lumps 
are rubbed out while it is in this thick state. Then add 
the remainder of the milk ; let it boil, and when smooth 
add the salt and pepper, using more if high seasoning be 
desired. 

This white sauce may be used in place of drawn butter 
in any of the preceding rules. 

Bichamel Sauce. — A white sauce made partly with 
cream and partly with rich white stock, either veal or 



190 The Boston Cook Booh 



chicken, according to directions for white sauce, is called 
Bechamel. 

The water in which celery, oysters, or lobsters have 
been cooked may be mixed with milk in making sauces 
given under these names. . 

For Fish a la crime and other preparations of fish, boil 
one slice of onion with the milk, or add half a teaspoonful of 
onion juice and one tablespoonful of chopped parsley* 

For Oysters, add half a teaspoonful of celery salt, a few 
grains of cayenne pepper, and one tablespoonful of lemon 
juice. 

For boiled Fowl, add half a can of mushrooms. 

A richer white sauce is made by beating the yolks of two 
eggs, and pouring the hot sauce into them just before 
serving. 

Curry Sauce (for Curried Eggs, Chicken, etc.). — Cook 
one tablespoonful of chopped onion in one tablespoonful of 
butter five minutes. Be careful not to burn it. Mix one 
tablespoonful of curry powder with two taUespoonfuls of flour , 
and stir it into the butter. Add one pint of hot milk grad- 
ually, and stir as directed for white sauce. 

Cream Sauce, No. 1. 



% teaspoonf ul salt. 
% saltspoonf ul pepper. 



1 pint hot cream. 

1 heaping tablespoonful butter. 

2 heaping tablespoonf uls flour. 

Make in the same manner as white sauce, and vary the 
seasoning for the different dishes for which it is to be 
4sed, as directed in white sauce. 

* A thicker Cream Sauce is given under rules for Cro- 
quettes. 

Cream Sauce, No. 2. 

Warm one cup of cream. Beat the yolks of two egg*^ 
strain them into the warm cream, and cook over hot 
water till the eggs thicken the cream like boiled custard. 
Stir all the time and when smooth and thickened remove 
from the fire, and add salt and pepper to taste. Serve 
with boiled celery, cauliflower, chicken, oysters, fish, etc. 



The Boston Cook Booh 191 



Brown Sauce. 



1 pint hot stock. 

3 tablespoonf uls minced onion. 

2 tablespoonf uls butter. 

2 heaping tablespoonf uls flour. 



% teaspoonf ul salt. 
% saltspoonful pepper. 
X tablespoonf ul lemon juice. 
Caramel enough to color. 



Mince the onion and fry it in the butter five minutes. 
Be careful not to burn it. When the butter is brown, add 
the dry flour and stir well. Add the hot stock a little at 
a time, and stir rapidly as it thickens, until perfectly 
smooth. Add the salt and pepper, using more if high 
seasoning be desired. Simmer five minutes, and strain 
to remove the onion. 

The stock for brown sauces may be made from bones 
and remnants of any kind of meat, by soaking them in 
cold water, and boiling until the nutriment is extracted. 
The onion may be omitted if the flavor be not desired ; 
but the sauce is better with it if it be not burned. 

By the addition of different seasoning materials to this 
brown sauce a great variety of sauces may be made. Half 
the quantity given is sufficient for most entries, or to 
use for any purpose in a small family. Be very careful 
not to burn the butter, as the desired color can better be 
obtained by adding caramel. 

Brown Sauce Piquante (for Beef) . — To one cup of 
brown sauce add one tablespoonful each of chopped pickles and 
capers. 

Sauce Poivrade. — Make one cup of brown sauce; aro 
one teaspoonful of mixed herbs, thyme, parsley, bay leaf, and 
cloves. Simmer ten minutes ; add two taUespoonfuh of 
claret, and strain. 

Sauce Robert. — To one cup of brown sauce, add one 
teaspoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of made mustard, and 
one tablespoonful of vinegar. 

Brown Mushroom Sauce (for Beef). — To one cup of 
brown sauce add half a can of mushrooms, whole or quar- 
tered, and simmer five minutes. 

Currant Jetty Sauce (for Mutton). — Make one cup of 



192 The Boston Cook Book. 



brown sauce, strain it, and add half a cup of melted currant 
jelly. Heat till the jelly is well mixed, and serve very 
hot. 

Olive Sauce (for Boast Duck). — Soak twelve olivet 
in hot water enough to cover, thirty minutes, to extract 
the salt. Pare them round and round, close to the stone, 
leaving the pulp in a single piece, which should curl back 
into the natural shape after the stone is removed. Make 
one cup of brown sauce, add the olives, and simmer ten 
minutes. 

Cumberland Sauce. — To one cup of brown sauce add one 
teaspoonful of made mustard, two tablespoonfuls of currant 
ielly, and two tablespoonfuls of wine. 

Flemish Sauce (for Beef or Veal). — Cut a cupful of 
the red part of carrot into quarter-inch dice, and cook in 
boiling salted water till tender. Make one cup of brown 
sauce, add the cooked carrot, half a tabUspoonful of chopped 
parsley, one tabUspoonful each of chopped pickles and grated 
horseradish. 

Sauce a la Italienne. — Fry one tabUspoonful of fine chopped 
shalots in one tabUspoonful of salad oil till yellow. Add one 
bay Uaf, a sprig of parsley, one taUespoonful of chopped 
mushrooms ; fry five minutes. Remove the bay leaf, add 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, mix well, and add one cup of 
stock. When smooth, add two tablespoonfuls of mushroom 
catchup, and one teaspoonful of essence of anchovy. Serve 
without straining. 

Chestnut Sauce (for Roast Turkey). — Remove the shells 
from one pint of large chestnuts. Scald or boil them 
three minutes to loosen the inner skin. Remove the skin ; 
break them in halves, and look them over carefulfy. Cook 
in salted boiling water or stock till very soft. Mash fine in 
the water in which they were boiled. Cook one tablespoon- 
ful of flour in two tablespoonfuls of brown butter, stir into 
the chestnuts and cook five minutes. Add salt and pepper 
to taste. 

The boiled chestnuts may be added to the gravy made 
from the drippings of the poultry, or to one cup of whiff 



The Boston Cook Booh 193 

sauce. Common chestnuts are much sweeter and more 
highly flavored, but it takes a long time to prepare them. 

Peanut Sauce may be made in the same manner. 

Port Wine Sauce (for Venison). — Half a cup of port 
wine, half a glass of melted currant jelly, one saltspoonful of 
salt, a little cayenne pepper, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, 
half a cup of thick brown stock, or half a cup of the drippings 
from the meat freevl from fat. Heat all together till very 
hot. 

Espagnole Sauce. — Boil one quart of strong consomme or 
rich, highly seasoned brown stock, till reduced to one pint 
Then use it as given under the rule for brown sauce, and 
flavor with wine. 

Bread Sauce (for Game). 



1 pint milk. 

% cup fine bread crumbs. 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped onion. 
1 tablespoonf ul butter. 



% teaspoonful salt. 
% saltspoonful pepper. 
% cup coarse bread crumbs. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 



Boil the floe bread crumbs and onion in the milk fifteen 
minutes, and add the butter, salt, and pepper. Fry the 
coarse bread crumbs in another tablespoonful of butter till 
brown. Four the sauce around the birds, and sprinkle the 
brown crumbs over the whole. 

Soubise Sauce (for Lamb or Mutton Chop). 

Boil three large onions till very soft. Drain, and rub the 
onion through a sieve. Stir the onion pulp into half a pint 
of white sauce made with milk or cream. 

Tomato Sauce (for Macaroni). 

Stew half a can of tomatoes and half a small onion ten 
minutes. Rub all the tomato pulp through a strainer. 
Cook one tablespoonful of butter and one heaping table- 
spoonful of flour in a granite saucepan ; add the strained 
tomatoes gradually, and one saltspoonful of salt and a shake 
of white pepper. 

13 



194 



The Boston Cook Book. 



Tomato Sauce (for Chops or Fish). 



* (s. 



% can tomatoes. 
, J cup water. 
2 cloves. 

2 allspice berries. 
2 peppercorns. 
1 teaspoonf ul mixed herbs. 



2 sprigs parsley. 

1 tablespoonf ul chopped onion. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

1 heaping tablesp. cornstarch, 

% teaspoonf ul salt. 

% saltspoonf ul pepper. 



Put the tomato, water, spices, herbs, and parsley on to 
boil in a granite saucepan. Fry the onion in the butter 
till yellow, add the cornstarch, and stir all into the tomato. 
Simmer ten minutes ; add the salt and pepper, and a little 
cayenne pepper, and strain the sauce over boiled meat or 
fish. 

4 Sollandaise Sauce (for Baked or Boiled Fish). (Miss Parloa.) 



)£ cup butter. 
Yolks of 2 eggs. 
Juice of % lemon. 



1 saltspoonf ul salt. 

^ saltspoonf ul cayenne pepper. 

% cup boiling water. 



Rub the butter to a cream in a small bowl with a wooden 
or silver spoon. Add the yolks, one at a time, and beat 
well ; then add the lemon juice, salt, and pepper. About 
five minutes before serving, add the boiling water. Place 
the bowl in a saucepan of boiling water and stir rapidly 
until it thickens like boiled custard. Pour the sauce 
around the meat or fish. 



Tartar Sauce (Hot, for Broiled Fish). 



1 tablespoonful vinegar. 
1 teaspoonf ul lemon juice. 
1 saltspoonf ul salt. 



1 tablespoonful Worcestershire 

sauce. 
J^ cup butter. 



Mix the vinegar, lemon juice, salt, and Worcestershire 
sauce in a small bowl, and heat over hot water. Brown 
the butter in an omelet pan, and strain into the other 
mixture. 



The Boston Cook Book. 195 

Tartar Sauce (for Broiled or Devilled Chicken). 

One tablespoonful each of mustard, Chili vinegar, shalot 
vinegar^ and clatet wine, and two tablespoonfuls of Harvey 
sauce. Heat in a bowl over hot water, and pour it over 
the chicken. 

Horseradish Sauce (Jlot, for Beef). 



4 tablesp. grated horseradish. 
4 tablesp. powdered cracker. 
% cup cream. 
1 teaspoonful powdered sugar. 



1 teaspoonful salt. 

% saltspoonful pepper. 

1 teaspoonful made mustard. . 

2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 



Mix, and heat over hot water. 

Horseradish Sauce (Cold). 

Cream one fourth of a cup of butter till very light ; add 
two tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish, one tablespoonful 
of very thick cream, and half a teaspoonful of Tarragon 
vinegar* Keep it on the ice till thick and cold. 

Sauce Tartare (Cold, for Fried or Boiled Fish, Tongue, 
Fish Salad, or Broiled Chicken). 

8 tablespoonf uls vinegar. 



1 tablespoonful chopped olives. 
1 tablespoonful chopped capers. 
1 tablespoonful chopped cucum- 
ber pickles. 
1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. 



1 teaspoonful mustard. 

% saltspoonful pepper. 

1 teaspoonful powdered sugar. 

1 saltspoonful salt. . 

Few drops onion juice. 

Yolks 2 raw eggs. 

3^ cup oil. 

Mix in the order given ; add the yolks, and stir well ; 
add the oil slowly, then the vinegar and chopped ingre- 
dients. This will keep for several weeks. 

Maitre d'Hotel Butter (Cold, for Beefsteak). 



J^ cup butter. 

J^ teaspoonful salt. 

J£ saltspoonf ul pepper. 



1 tablespoonful chopped parsley.. 
1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 



Rub the butter to a cream ; add salt, pepper, parsley, 
and lemon juice. Spread it on hot beefsteak. 



196 The Boston Cook Booh. 



Maftre d'Hotel Sauce (Hot). 

Add the beaten yolks of two eggs to the cold MaUre d Ho- 
tel butter, and when ready to serve add one pint of drawn 
butter, made with strong white stock. 

Sauce for Fish Balls (Cold). 



2 teaspoonf uls dry mustard. 
1 teaspoonf ul salt. 
1 teaspoonfttl sugar. 



1 teaspoonf ul flour. 

1 teaspoonf ul soft butter. 

2 tablespoon! uls vinegar. 



Mix in the order given, in a granite saucepan; add 
half a cup of boiling water, and stir over the fire till it 
thickens and is smooth. Serve it cold. 



Mint Sauce (for Lamb). 

1 cup fresh chopped mint. I % cup vinegar. 
)£ cup sugar. | 

Use onlj r the leaves and tender tips of the mint. Let it 
stand an hour before serving. Use more sugar if the vin- 
egar be very strong. 



The Boston Cook Book. 197 



EGGS. 

Whatever else you ma}' economize in, do not limit jour 
family in respect to eggs. They are nutritious, and even 
at four cents each are cheaper than meat. They should 
be used freely by all except those who know they cannot 
digest them. Using freely does not mean their unnecessary 
or extravagant use in rich cakes, custards, etc., nor in the 
indigestible form of fried or what is ordinarily ^called hard- 
boiled eggs ; but it means the frequent use of them in any 
of the simple forms of boiling, baking, omelets, plain cake, 
and other wholesome combinations. It is very poor econ- 
omy, especially for those who keep hens, to exchange eggs 
for corned beef or salt fish ; or to use soda and cream of 
tartar as a substitute for eggs in sponge cake, or half- 
cooked flour in an omelet. They may be served in an 
unlimited variety of styles, are especially suitable for 
breakfast or lunch, attractive as a garnish, and when 
combined with sugar and milk make the most healthful 
puddings, desserts, or tea dishes. 

But though a type of perfect food, eggs are not intended 
to be eaten exclusively, any more than other foods. They 
are one of the most highly concentrated forms of food, and, 
being wholly destitute of starch, should be eaten with 
bread or rice. 

The white of the egg has but a trace of fat in it, and 
requires the addition of butter, milk, or fat meat, like 
bacon or ham. The white of egg contains water, mineral 
ingredients, and soluble albumen ; the yolk has, in addi- 
tion to these, oil and sulphur. The albumen is enclosed 
in layers of thin-walled cells. When beaten, these walls 
break, and the albumen, owing to its glutinous nature, 
catches and holds the air, and increases to many times its 
original bulk. 



I9 8 The Boston Cook Booh 



Do not use an egg till it has been laid ten hours, as the 
white does not become set or thick till then, and cannot be 
beaten stiff. Eggs for poaching or boiling are best when 
thirty-six hours old. Albumen, when heated, becomes a 
dense solid ; if mixed and heated with a liquid, it hardens 
and entangles in its meshes any solids or impurities in the 
liquid, and rises to the surface with them as scum, or pre- 
cipitates them. It is thus the white of egg clears soups, 
jellies, and coffee. Strong acids, corrosive sublimate, 
and creosote will also coagulate albumen ; and there- 
fore, if any of these poisons be taken into the sj-steni, 
the white of egg, swallowed quickly, will combine with 
the poison and protect the stomach. 

The shells of newly laid eggs are almost full ; but as 
the shells are porous, on exposure to the air, the water 
inside evaporates, and the eggs grow lighter, while air 
rushes in to fill the place of the water, and causes the 
nitrogenous elements to decompose, and the eggs soon 
spoil. This explains whj T a good egg is heavy, and will 
sink in water; and whj' a stale egg is lighter, has a 
rattling or gurgling sound, and floats in the water. Any- 
thing which will fill up the pores and thus exclude the 
air, when applied to perfectly fresh eggs, will preserve 
them indefinitely ; a coating of liquid fat or gum, or a 
packing in bran or salt, with the small end downward, is 
effectual. Eggs should be kept in a cool, dark place, 
and handled carefully, as an}- rough motion may cause 
the white and yolk to become mixed, by rupturing the 
membrane which separates them, and then the egg spoils 
quickly. 

Never buy eggs about the freshness of which you have 
any doubt, not even in winter. One can easily judge 
which is the better economy, — to pay twenty^five or thirty 
cents a dozen, and find none of them full and fresh, and 
perhaps half of them really rotten ; or to pa} r fifty cents, 
and obtain them freshty laid, — not merely fresh from the 
countoy, — and all sound and good. Eggs with a dark 
shell are richer and have larger yolks. Eggs are of better 



The Boston Cook Book* 199 

flavor and more palatable in the spring, but are good 
and suitable, if perfectly fresh, at any season. 

Boiled Eggs (the Best Way). 

Put the eggs in a saucepan, cover with boiling water, 
and let them stand about ten minutes where the water 
will keep hot (180°), but not boiling. The white should 
be of a soft jelly-like consistency, and the yolk soft but 
not liquid. Experience will show the exact time to keep 
the eggs in the water to suit individual tastes. They 
should be served immediately, as they harden by being 
kept in the hot shell. An egg, to be cooked soft, should 
never be cooked in boiling water, as the white hardens un- 
evenl}- before the heat reaches the yolk. 

Hard-boiled Eggs. — Cook eggs for twenty minutes in 
water just below the boiling-point, for use in any receipt 
which specifies hard-boiled eggs. The yolk of an egg cooked 
ten minutes is tough and indigestible ; twenty minutes will 
make the 3*olk dry and mealy ; then it may be more easily 
rubbed smooth for salad or other mixtures, and more 
quickly penetrated by the gastric fluid. If the shell of an 
egg be cracked before boiling, pierce several small holes 
in the large end to keep the contents from bursting out at 
the crack. 

Dropped or Poached Eggs on Toast. 

Toast a slice of bread for each egg, and trim neatly, or 
cut with a round cutter before toasting. Have a very 
clean shallow pan nearly full of salted and boiling water. 
Remove all the scum, and let the water simmer. Break 
each egg carefully into a cup, and slip it gently into the 
water. Dip the water over them with a spoon, and when 
a film has formed on the yolk and the white is firm, take 
each up with a skimmer ; drain, trim the edges, and place 
on the toast. Put a bit of butter and a little salt and 
pepper on each egg; or make a thin cream sauce and 
pour it around them. Put a tablespoonful of lemon juice 



200 The Boston Cook Book. 

in the water, or poach the eggs in muffin-rings to give 
them a better shape. An egg-poacher, something like a 
castor with perforated cups, is very convenient. 

No. 2. — Spread the toast with butter and anchovy 
paste or sardine paste, and serve a poached egg on each 
slice ; or spread the toast with potted or finely minced 
boiled ham. 

Ham and Eggs. — Serve poached eggs on thin slices of 
broiled or fried ham; when served on hot, highly seasoned 
boiled rice, they are called Spanish Eggs. 

Eggs poached in Tomatoes, or a la Dauphine. (Af. L. 
Clarke.) — Stew slowly for ten minutes half a can of toma- 
toes and one small onion, cut fine. Season highly with salt 
and pepper. Break six eggs into a bowl without beating, 
and when everything else is ready to serve, slip them into 
the hot tomatoes. Lift the white carefully with a fork, as 
it cooks, until it is all firm ; then prick the yolks and let 
them mix with the tomato and white. It should be quite 
soft, but with the red tomatoes, the white and yellow of 
the egg, quite distinct. Serve at once on toast. 

Scrambled Eggs. — Beat four eggs slightly with a fork ; 
add half a teaspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, 
and half a cup of milk. Turn into a hot buttered omelet 
pan and cook quickly, stirring all the time till the egg is 
firm but soft. Serve on toast or with hot minced ham or 
veal. Any of the ingredients given in fancy omelets may 
be mixed with the beaten eggs before cooking. 

No. 2. — Put a taUespoonful of butter in an omelet pan ; 
when hot, add three whole eggs ; stir quickly till the mix- 
ture is firm but soft. Add a little salt and pepper, and 
serve at once. 

Omelet. . 

Beat the yolks of two eggs till light-colored and thick ; 
add two tablespoonfuls of milk, one saltspoonful of salt, and 
one fourth of a saltspoonful of pepper. Beat the whites 
of two eggs till stiff and dry. Cut and fold them lightly 
into the yolks till just covered. Have a clean, smooth 



The Boston Cook Book. 201 




omelet pan. When hot, rub it round the edge with a 
teaspoonful of butter on a broad knife ; let the butter run 
all over the pan and when bubbling turn in the omelet 
quickly and spread it evenly on the pan. Lift the pan 
from the hottest part of the fire and cook carefully, until 
slightly browned 
underneath; slip 
the knife under 
to keep it from 
burning in the 
middle. Put it on 

the oven grate to ^ 10> Plain0m etet 

dry (not brown) 

the top. When the whole centre is dry as you cut into it, 
run a knife round the edge, then under the half nearest 
the handle, and fold over to the right. Hold the edge of 
a hot platter against the lower edge of the pan, and in- 
vert the omelet upon the platter. Or add only half of the 
beaten whites to the yolks, and when nearly cooked spread 
the remainder over the top ; let it heat through ; fold over, 
and the white will burst out round the edge like a border 
of foam, making a foam omelet, or any fancj' name you may 
choose to give it. 

If 3*ou have no omelet pan, or no convenience for dry- 
ing the omelet in the oven, use a smooth iron spider or 
frying-pan with a tin cover, and double the quantities 
given. Heat the pan and the cover very hot. Butter the 
pan, turn in the mixture, cover it, and place on the back 
of the stove for five minutes, or till firm. Fold as usual. 
Omelets should be only slightly browned, never burned, 
as the flavor of scorched egg is not agreeable. 

One tablespoonful of chopped parsley, or a teaspoonful of 
fine grated onion, or two or three tablespoonfuls of grated 
sweet corn may be added to the yolks before cooking. 

Thin slices of cold ham, or three spoonfuls of chopped ham, 
veal, or chicken; stewed tomatoes or raw tomatoes sliced; 
chopped mushrooms, shrimps, oysters which have been par- 
boiled and drained ; cooked clams, chopped fine ; or grated 



202 The Boston Cook Booh 



cheese, — may be spread on the omelet before folding, 
giving all the varieties of fancy omelets, each variety taking 
the name of the additional ingredient. 

jVo. 2. — Beat six eggs until light and foamy with a Dover 
egg-beater ; add half a teaspoonful of salt and one scant salt- 
spoonful of pepper, and one cup of milk. Fry a large spoon- 
ful at a time in a hot pan or on a griddle, and roll over 
quickly like a French pancake. This is a convenient way 
where the family come irregularly to breakfast. The mix- 
ture mav stand for some time if beaten again thoroughly 

before frying. 

Creamy Omelet. {Mrs. Ewing.) — Beat four eggs slightly 
with a spoon till you can take up a spoonful. Add a 
scant half-teaspoonful of salt', half a salispoonful of pepper, 
four tablespoonfuls of milk or cream, and mix well. Butter 
a hot omelet pan, and before the butter browns turn in 
the mixture. Then with the point of a fork pick or lift 
up the cooked egg from the centre and let the uncooked 
egg run under. This leaves the butter on the pan, and 
is better than stirring. Continue the lifting until the whole 
is of a soft creamy consistency ; then place it over a 
hotter part of the fire to brown slightly ; fold and turn out 
as usual. 

Sweet or Jelly Omelet. — Allow a teaspoonful of powdered 
sugar to each egg, and omit the pepper. Mix and cook 
as in Omelet No. 1, and when ready to fold put two or 
three tablespoonfuls of any kind of preserves, marmalade, 
or jelly on the top. Fold and sprinkle with sugar. 

Orange Omelet. — The thinly 
grated rind of one orange and 
three tablespoonfuls of the 
juice, three eggs, and three tea- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar. 

Fio. 11. Orange Omelet. t> ' *. 4.1, n ]i lL 

Beat the yolks; add the sugar, 
rind, and juice; fold in the beaten whites, and cook as 
in Omelet, No. 1. • Fold, turn out, v sprinkle thickly 
with powdered sugar, and score in diagonal lines with a 
clean red-hot poker. The burnt sugar gives to the omelet 




The Boston Cook Book. 203 

a delicious flavor. Or cut the orange into sections, re- 
move the seeds and tough inner skin ; cut each section 
into pieces, and mix with the j'olks before cooking; or 
spread part of the orange over the omelet before folding, 
and sprinkle the remainder over the sugared top. 

This is a convenient dessert for an emergency, and may 
be prepared in ten minutes if one have the oranges. 

Omelet Souffle. — Allow a heaping teaspoonful of pow- 
dered sugar, a few drops of lemon or vanilla for flavoring, 
and two whites to each yolk. To make a small omelet, 
beat the yolks of two eggs till light and thick ; add two 
heaping teaspoonfuls of powdered sugar and half a teaspoon- 
ful of lemon or vanilla. Beat the whites of four eggs till 
stiff and dry, and fold them lightly into the yolks. Put it 
by the tablespoonfuls lightly into a well-buttered baking- 
dish. Cook in a moderate oven about twelve minutes, or 
till well puffed up and a straw comes out clean. Serve at 
once, as it falls quickly. * 



Baked Eggs. 

Small stone china dishes or egg-shirrers, holding one oi 
two eggs for each person, are convenient for this method 
of serving eggs ; or use a common platter placed over hot 
water ; or bake in the shells in a moderate oven ten minutes, 
first pricking several holes with a large pin in the large end 
of the egg, to keep the air within from bursting the shell 
as it expands. 

No. 1. — Break each egg into a cup, being careful not to 
break the }*olk, and put the eggs on a hot buttered dish 
suitable for serving. Put a little salt on each egg. Bake 
until the white is Ann. Add a little butter and serve 
at once. Garnish each .egg with thin strips of breakfast 
bacon. 

No. 2. — Cover the buttered dish with, fine cracker crumbs. 
Put each egg carefully in the dish, and cover lightty with 
seasoned and buttered crumbs. Bake till the crumbs are 
brown. 




204 The Boston Cook Booh 

No, 3. — Beat the whites of the eggs to 'a stiff froth, and 
salt slightly. Spread it roughly on a platter; make a 
nest or cavity for each yolk some distance apart Season, 
and bake till the white is brown. 

No. 4. — Cover the dish with any poultry gravy you may 
chance to have, or with white sauce, and have a slice of 
toast or bread sauted for each egg. Set the platter in the 
oven over a pan of hot water, and when toast and gravy 
are hot drop the eggs on the toast, and bake till the eggs 
are set. 

Eggs en GoquiUe. — Cut slices of stale bread in large rounds ; 
then with a smaller cutter cut half-way through and scoop 
out the centre, leaving them shaped like a pate shell, with 
the cavity large enough to hold one egg. Dip these bread 
shells in raw egg, beaten with a little milk, and saute, or 
fry them in hot fat. Put them on a platter covered with 
hot white sauce or poultry gravy, and serve a poached egg 
in each shell ; or put a raw egg*in each and bake till the 
eggs are set. Half a cup of chopped or sliced mushrooms 
may be cooked in the gravy. The shells may be toasted if 
you prefer. 

No, 2. — Take half a cup of soft bread crumbs, an equal 
amount of fine chopped ham or tongue, and a little pepper, 
salt, parsley, mustard, and melted butter. Make it into a 
smooth paste with hot milk or cream. Spread the mixture 
on some scallop shells. Break the eggs carefully, and put 
one in the centre of each shell ; sprinkle with a little salt 
and pepper, and fine cracker crumbs moistened with melted 
butter. Set in the oven, and bake five or six minutes, or 
until the egg is firm. Or put the bread and meat mixture 
in a baking-dish, shaping it a little to hold six or seven 
raw eggs ; cover lightly with buttered crumbs, and bake till 
the whites of the eggB are firm. 

* Eggs and Minced Meat, — Chop one pint of cold chicken, 
ham, or veal fine, and rub it to a smooth paste ; add one table- 
spoonful of melted butter, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
salt and pepper to taste, and two beaten eggs. U too drj*, 
moisten with a little cream or stock or gravy, but do not 



The Boston Cook Book. 205 

have it too soft to' shape. Heat it in a frying-pan just 
enough to warm through, tatting it dry off if too moist. 
Form it on a hot platter into a fiat mound ; hollow the cen- 
tre, leaving a ridge of the mixture round the edge. Keep 
it hot, and put three at four poached eggs in the centre- 



Flu. 12. Eggs ud Minced Meat 

Garnish with triangles of toad laid round the base of the 
meat. Or, if you have a larger quantity of meat, prepare 
as above, and make a mound one inch deep on a round 
dish and a smaller mound above that, and place eggs 
baked in cups, or hard-boiled eggs cut in halves, or egg 
baskets on the space between the mounds. Garnish with 
parsley. 

Pannikin*. — Warm minced ham or tongue or veal in a 
thick cream sauce, and pile it in the centre of a platter. 
Heat and butter some earthen cups, break an egg in each, 
and bake till the egg is firm. Turn them out and arrange 
round the meat. 



Various Ways of Serving Hard-boiled Eggs. 
Curried Eggs. — Boil *ix eggs twenty minutes. Remove 
the shells and cut into halves or slices. Fry one teaspoon- 
fid of chopped onion in one tablespoonful of butter, being 
careful not to burn it ; add one heaping tablespoonful of 
flour or one even tablespoonful of cornstarch mixed with half 
a tablespoonful of curry powder. Pour on slowly one cup 
and a half of white stock or milt or cream ; add salt and 
pepper to taste. Simmer till the onions are soft. Add 



206 The Boston Cook Booh 



the eggs, and when warmed through serve in a shallow 
dish ; or arrange the eggs on hot toast, and pour the 
sauce over them ; or cover with buttered crumbs and bake 
till the crumbs are brown. 

Egg Vermicelli. — Boil three eggs twenty minutes. Sepa- 
rate the yolks and chop the whites fine. Toast four slices 
of bread; cut half into small squares and half into points 
or triangles. Make one cup of thin white sauce with one 
cjip of cream or milky one teaspoonful of butter, one heaping 
teaspoonful of flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, and half a 
saltspoonful of pepper. Stir the whites into the sauce, and 
when hot pour it over the squares of toast Rub the 
yolks through a fine strainer over the whole, and garnish 
with a border of toast points and a bit of parsley in the 
centre. 

Or cut the bread into rounds before toasting. Pour the 
white sauce on the hot platter, and put the rounds of toast 
on the sauce some distance apart. Put a little of the 
chopped white on each slice, pile it high on the edge, rub 
the yolks through a fine strainer over the centre, and lay 
small sprigs of fine parsley between the toast. 

Stuffed Eggs. — Boil six eggs twenty minutes. Re- 
move the shells and cut carefully lengthwise. Remove 
the } T olks, and put the two whites of each egg together, 

that the}' may not become 
mixed. Mash the yolks, 
and add one teaspoonful of 
soft butter, a few drops of 
onion juice, and half the 
quantity of potted or dev- 

Fig. 13. Stuffed Eggs garnished with * ,7 j . 

p ar8 i e y. tiled ham or tongue. Or, if 

minced chicken, lamb, or veal 
be used, season to taste with salt, pepper, mustard, and 
Cayenne or chopped parsley. Fill the whites with the mix- 
ture, smooth them, and press the two halves together, 
being careful to fit them just as they were cut. Spread 
the remainder of the }*olk mixture on a shallow dish and 
place the eggs on >t. Cover with a thin white sauce, or 






The Boston Cook Book. 207 



any chicken or veal gravy ; sprinkle buttered crumbs over the 
whole, and bake till the crumbs are a delicate brown. 

No. 2. — After the eggs are filled with the mixture and 
put together as above, roll each egg in fine bread crumbs 
and beaten egg and in crumbs again, then repeat the pro- 
cess, and fry in smoking hot fat. Drain, and serve hot 
with tomato sauce or garnished with parsley. 

Scotch Eggs. — One cup of lean cooked ham chopped 
very fine ; six hard-boiled eggs. Cook one third of a cup of 
stale bread crumbs in one third of a cup of milk to a smooth 
paste. Mix it with the ham ; add half a teaspoonful of 
mixed mustard, half a saltspoonful of cayenne, and one raw 
egg. Mix well, remove the shells from the eggs, and cover 
with the mixture. Fry in hot fat two minutes. Drain, 
and serve hot or cold, for lunch or picnics. Cut them into 
halves lengthwise, and arrange each half on a bed of fine 
parsley. The contrast between the green, red, white, and 
yellow gives a verj' pretty effect. 

No. 2. — Boil six eggs twenty minutes. Make a force- 
meat with one cup of an} T kind of cold meat 'finely chopped, 
half a cup of soft bread crumbs cooked to a paste, in one 
third of a cup of milk and one raw egg, beaten light, using 
just enough of the egg to unite the mixture, being careful 
not to have it too soft. 

If chicken be used, season with chopped parsley and a 
pinch of herbs ; season ham with mustard and cayenne ; 
veal, with lemon juice or horseradish; and salmon 9 with 
lemon and cayenne. 

Divide the eggs crosswise or lengthwise, or leave them 
whole. Cover each half or whole egg thickly with the 
force-meat, and place them on a buttered tin pan and bake 
in a hot oven tilf slightly browned. Arrange on a hot 
platter with a white sauce poured around (not over) them. 

Scalloped Eggs. — Boil six eggs twentj r minutes. Make 
one pint of white sauce with stock and cream or milk, and 
season to taste. Moisten one cup of fine cracker crumbs 
in one fourth of a cup of melted butter or cream. Chop 
fine one cup of ham, tongue, poultry, or fish. Remove the 



208 The Boston Cook Booh 

yolks of the eggs, and chop the whites fine. Put a layer of 
buttered crumbs in a buttered scallop dish, then a layer of 
chopped whites, white sauce, minced meat, yolks rubbed 
through a fine strainer, and so on, until the material is all 
used, having the buttered crumbs on the top. Bake till 
the crumbs are brown. 

Egg Balls in Baskets, — Boil three eggs twenty minutes. 
Remove the shells, cut off a thin slice at each end, that 
the eggs may stand upright, and cut in halves crosswise. 
Remove the yolks, and stand the cups or baskets thus made 
around the edge of a platter. . Rub the yolks to a smooth 
paste; add an equal amount of cooked ham or tongue, 
chopped fine, one taUespoonful of melted butter, salt, pep- 
per, and mustard to taste. Make into balls the size of 
the original yolks, and fill the cups. Make one cup of 
white sauce, with cream or milk and white stock, seasoned 
with salt and pepper. Pour it in the centre of the eggs. 
Set the platter in the oven a few minutes, and when ready 
to serve put a tiny bit of parsley on each ball. 

In place of the meat, you may use, if you prefer, two 
tahlespoonfuls of grated cheese, a speck of . cayenne pepper, 
and moisten with vinegar and olive oil. 

Eggs a la Creme. 

Boil three eggs twenty minutes. Cut off a slice at each 
end, and cut the eggs in halves crosswise. Remove the 

yolks, and cut them in 
thin slices. Mix with 
them an equal amount 
of small thin pieces of 
cold chicken, ham, salmon, 
or lobsUr, and season to 
taste. Fill the white 
cups with the mixture. Place them on a shallow dish and 
pour one cup of thick cream sauce (page 190) around them. 
The sauce should come nearly to the top of the cups. Or 
cut the eggs in halves, and place them with the cut side 
down and serve in the sauce. 




Fig. 14. Eggs a la Creme. 



The Boston Cook Book. : ' r 209 



Eggs in a Nest. 

Boil six eggs twenty minutes. Remove the shells. 
Separate the yolks without breaking ; or rub them to a 
smooth paste with a little olive oil to moisten, and 
shape into small balls. Cut the whites in thin narrow 
slices, and mix with them an equal quantity of find 
shredded chicken, ham, or salmon, and a tablespoonful of fine 
sprigs of parsley. Pile this mixture, which should be light 
and dry, on a platter in a circular or oval ring, and put 
the yolks in the centre. Set the platter in a steamer, to 
heat the mixture. Make a pint of thick white sauce ; pour 
enough of it round the edge of the dish to come half-way 
up the nest, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. 

The same materials may be served cold as Devilled 
Eggs. Mix a little cayenne pepper and made mustard with 
the yolks and also with the shredded meat ; add a sprink- 
ling of vinegar, and garnish the dish with parsley or water- 
cresses. Or serve as a salad, garnished with cresses or 
lettuce, and sprinkle a French dressing over the whole. 

Egg Salad may be served in this form. Cut the yolks in 
dice, and mix them lightly with diced chicken, salmon, fish, 
or lobster; fill the white cups heaping with the mixture, 
and serve on a bed of lettuce or cresses, with French or 
Mayonnaise dressing. 



14 



2io The Boston Cook Book. 



MEAT. 

Meat is a general term applied to the flesh of animals 
used for food. It includes the muscular flesh, sinews, fat, 
heart, liver, stomach, brains, and tongue. Meat is divided 
into three classes : — 

Meat, including beef, veal, mutton, lamb, and pork. 

Poultry, including chicken, turke} r , geese, and ducks, or 
all domestic fowls. 

Game, including partridges, grouse, pigeons, quail, or 
other birds, venison, and any wild meat that is hunted 
in the forest or field. 

Meat consists of several substances, — fibrine, albumen, 
gelatine, fat, and the juice of flesh, 

Fibrine exists in the blood and flesh. In the former 
it is soluble, owing to the alkaline nature of the blood ; 
it is deposited by the blood, made into flesh, and becomes 
K insoluble flesh- fibrine, and forms the basis* or fibre of mus- 
cular tissue. It is separated into bundles by membranes, 
and into larger separate masses by cellular tissue, in 
which fat is deposited. Its true color is white ; but the 
blood in the veins which penetrate every part of the fibre 
gives it a reddish tinge. This may be seen by washing 
a piece of lean meat in cold water. The red coloring 
matter is soon drawn into the water, and the meat is a 
mass of white fibre. Fibrine is hardened and contracted 
by intense heat, but softened by moderate and lo»g- 
continued heat. Meat that has tough fibre should simmer 
and not boil. 

Albumen exists in the flesh and in the blood. It is the 
soluble portion of the flesh. It dissolves in cold water, 
but hardens in hot water. 

Gelatine is a peculiar substance found in the tendons 



The Boston Cook Book. 211 



and gristly parts of flesh, the shin, and the sinewy parts 
about the joints, and in the nutritive parts of bones. It 
may be dissolved by soaking in cold water, and then boil- 
ing gently for several hours. The solution hardens when 
cold. Gelatine hardens in a dry heat, and such parts of 
meat as contain it in abundance should be stewed, rather 
than roasted or broiled. 

Fat of meat is contained, a good measure of it, in the 
adipose tissue of almost all flesh which is used as food. 
It is liquefied by heat, and resolved into various acid and 
acrid bodies. It is a warmth-giver, and is therefore most 
appropriately used in cold seasons and climates. 

The juice of the flesh consists of water, a small propor- 
tion of albumen, and a mixture of other compounds. It 
is not the blood, for it still exists after the blood has been 
withdrawn. It ma}' be obtained by chopping lean meat 
fine, putting it in a closely covered jar without water, and 
heating it gradually. If heated above 160°, the albumi- 
nous matters in it harden and turn brown. The solid 
residue, consisting of fibres, tissue, etc., is white, tasteless, 
and inodorous. This separated juice is strongly acid, 
while the blood is always alkaline. It contains many sub- 
stances which are very valuable as food, and the savory 
principle, or ozmazome, which gives flavor to the meat and 
causes it to differ in different animals. Meat should 
always be cooked in such a manner as to retain the largest 
proportion of this juice. The juice is drawn out into the 
brine in salting, and this renders salt meat less nutritious. 
The juice when the water has been separated from it by 
evaporation, is termed extract of meat. 

The 'flesh of all young animals is more tender, but not 
so nutritious as that of maturer animals. Nearly all parts 
of an animal may be used as food. 

Meat is in season all the year ; but certain kinds are 
better at stated times. Pork is good only in autumn and 
winter ; veal, in the spring and summer ; venison, in the 
winter ; fowls, in autumn and winter ; lamb, in the summer 
and fall ; mutton and beef 'at any time. 



212 



The Boston Cook Book. 




Fig. 15. Diagram of Ox. 



1. Tip of Sirloin. 

2. Middle of Sirloin. 

8. First Cut of Sirloin. 

4. Back of Bump. 

5. Middle of Bump. 

6. Face of Bump. 

7. Aitch Bone. 

8. Lower Part of Bound. 
8}. Top of Bound. 

9. Vein. 

10. Poorer Part of Bound. 
1L Poorer Part of Vein. 



12. Shin. 

IS. Boneless Flank. 

14. Thick Flank with Bone. 

15. First Cut of Bibs. 

c. Chuck Bibs. 

d. Neck. 

16. Battle Band. 

17. Second Cut of Battle Band. 

18. Brisket (a. the navel end; b the 

butt end). 

19. Fore Shin. 




Fio. 10. Hind Quarter of Beef. 



The figures in the hind quarter correspond to those in 
the same section of the whole ox. 



The Boston Cook Book. 



213 



All meat should be removed from the brown paper in 
which it is wrapped as soon as it comes from the market, 
or it will taste of the paper and the paper will absorb the 
meat juices. Wipe all over with a clean wet cloth. 
Chops and steaks will keep sweet much longer if examined 
at once, and any parts that are not clean and sweet 
removed. In warm weather look at the meat often. Put 
it on a dish near, but never directly upon, the ice. 



Cost of Meat and Game. 



it 



Shin of beef, 3 to 6 eta. per lb. 

Middle cut of shin, 7 to 10 " 
Lower part of 

round, 
Vein, 

Top of round, 
Aitch bone, 
Face of rump, 
Middle, 
Back, 
Sirloin, 



ti 

ti 



13 to 15 " 

20 to 25 " 

20 to 25 " 

8 to 10 k< 

17 to 22 " 

25 to 28 " 

22 to 30 " 

28 to 33 " 



Whole tenderloin, 75 c. to $1.00 
SmaU •' 30 to 45 cts. 

Tip of sirloin, 22 to 30 " 
First cut of rib, 17 to 25 " 
Second cut of rib, 15 to 20 " 



Chuck rib, 
Second cut, rib 

corned, 
Brisket, 

Boneless brisket, 
Flank, 
Liver, 

Tripe, plain, 
Tripe, honey-comb, 15 



7toH " 

12 to 15 " 

8 to 12 " 

15 " 

6 to 11 " 

10 to 12 " 
6 to 18 " 



it 



Heart, 
Suet, 

Mutton, leg, 
Mutton, loin, 
Mutton, saddle, 
Mutton, chops, 
Mutton, fore 

quarter, 
Mutton, neck, 



3 to 10 u 

7 to 12 " 
12 to 20 " 

14 to 20 " 

15 to 20 " 
15 to 25 " 

8 to 12 " 
6 to 9 " 



tt 

14 
«« 
li 
li 

ti 
(I 
ti 
tt 
tt 
tt 
ti 
(I 
(i 

tt 
li 
It 
tt 
tt 
II 

tt 
ti 
(t 
li 
It 
tt 
tt 

it 
tt 



Lamb, leg, 


14 to 80 cts. ] 


per lb. 


Lamb, chops, 


15 to 40 


it 


tt 


Lamb, fore 








quarter, 


10 to 25 


tt 


tt 


Veal, knuckle, 


12 to 17 


tt 


tt 


Veal, cutlet, 


22 to 28 


tt 


tt 


Veal, breast, 


9 to 14 


tt 


a 


Sweetbreads, 


25 to 70 


" whole. 


Calf's liver, 


25 to 70 


tt 


tt 


Calf's heart, 


5 to 8 


tt 


each. 


Calf's head, 


25 to 60 


ti 


tt 


Fresh pork, 


9 to 15 


" per lb. 


Salt pork, 


11 to 15 


»i 


tt 


Bacon, bag, 


17 to 20 


tt 


tt 


Bacon, slices, 


15 to 18 


u 


tt 


Ham, bag, 


17 to 20 


tt 


tt 


Ham, sliced, 


20 to 25 


It 


it 


Lard, 


11 to 15 


It 


tt 


Leaf lard, 


10 to 15 


tt 


it 


Sausage, 


12 to 20 


it 


tt 


Turkeys, 


20 to 35 


tt 


tt 


Fowl, 


12 to 30 


ii 


tt 


Chickens, 


18 to 75 


It 


it 


Ducks, wild, 


25 c. to $1.50 each. 


Ducks, tame, 


20 to 37 cts. per lb. 


Ducks, Canvas- 








back, 


$1.50 to $2.00 each. 


Grouse, 


75 c. to $1.25 


tt 


Partridge, 


75 c. to $1.25 


tt 


Pigeon, wild, 


75 c. to $2.00 per d. 


Pigeon, tame, 


12& to 25 cts. 


each. 


Squab, 


$2.50 to $4.50 


perd. 


Quail, 


$1.50 to $3.00 


11 



Th* 



BEEF. 

Good beef should be bright red, well marbled with yel- 
lowish-white fat, and with a thick outside layer of fat. 
The flesh must be firm, and when pressed with the finger 
no mark should be left. The suet should be dry, and 
crumble easily. 

A side of beef is divided into the hind quarter and 

fore quarter. The hind quarter consists of the round, 

the rump, and the loin. The fore quarter is divided 

into the back half and the rattle rand. In cutting up a 

hind quarter, the flank is first removed. The cut should 

slant two or three inches toward the tip. The upper part 

of the flank has 

the ends of the 

short ribs, and is 

used for corning. 

The lower end of 

the flank has no 

bones. This may 

be stuffed, rolled, 

and boiled, either 

fresh or corned. 

The round is sep- 

tatf. AIM. BOM. anlted fr ° m the 

rump in the line 
from 7 to 9. The aitch bone (7) lies between the back 
and middle eut of the rump and the top of the round. It 
is usually sold whole ; it makes a good roast for a small 
family, considering the price (10 cents), and is the best 
piece for a beef stew. 

The first cuts of the vein (9) which joins the face of 
the rump make good steak. The top of the round is 



215 

the inside of the thickest part of the leg (8J, behind 8 
in the diagram). As seen on the counter, it is above the 
bone. It consists of one large section or muscle with a 
thick edge of fat. The best round steaks lie between this 
point and the ridge of fat. The third slice is considered 
the best. After cutting beyond this ridge comes the 
beginning of another muscle, which is very tough. One 
may easily detect, by the separation of this narrow strip of 
meat along the top of the slice, whether the meat came 
from the best part of the top of the round. It may be the 



best the marketman has ; but it is not the best cut, though 
often palmed off in place of the third slice. The under 
part of the round has two sections or muscles, the one 
nearest the bone being larger than the outside section. 
The skin is thin, with very little fat. Steaks from this cut 
are sometimes sold as good round, steak to the ignorant 
buyer ; but keep in mind that in the top cut there is one 
large muscle with thick fat, instead of two smaller muscles 
and thin fat, and you will not be deceived. This under 
cu* of the round is excellent for braising. It is well shaped, 
requires no trimming, and is the cheapest cut, as every 
scrap of it may be eaten. Below this, as we follow down 
the leg, are nice pieces for stews, pie meat, etc. 

The marrow bone, running through the round to the 
shin, contains the best marrow. The next best is in the 



216 The Boston Cook Booh 

foreshin. The hind shin differs from the fore shin in hav- 
ing a thick tendon, which separates entirely from the end 
of the leg, and unites again at the joint, forming a loop by 
which the hind quarter is hung on the meat hook. The 
middle cut of the 
shin may be used 
for stews and brais- 
ing, and the lower 
part for soups. 

The rump is usu- 
ally separated from 
the loin, and divid- 
ed into the back, 
no. 10. B»ek of Romp. middle, and face 

of the rump. The 
back of the rump, one of the best pieces for roasting, has 
part of the ba.uk bone and sometimes the rump bone, as 
some marketmen will not cut it out before weighing. 
The small end nearest the loiu has the most tender meat. 



1 



The middle cut has no bone, but it is not 
tender. It is better for braising than for roasting. Some- 
times the rump is not divided, and is cut into steaks. If 
cnt parallel with the backbone, it will be tough. If cut al 
right angles, and from the end nearest the loin, it makes the 



The Boston Cook Book. ' 217 

best steaks, and is well worth the extra price charged for 
cutting in this manner. The face of the rump has a thick 
piece of fat in the middle, often purposely covered by a 
thin cutting from the ten- 
derloin. This is a cheap 
piece for roasting, but not 
of the best quality. 

The sirloin is separated 
from the rump in a slant- 
ing direction. Never buy 
the first slice, as it always 
has a small narrow bone 
near the top in addition to 
the rib, and a larger por- 
tion of tough flank and 
gristle than the middle or 

second cuts. As it lies on p, . a. Sll | 0lll Bant, second cut 
the counter you ma} - easily 

tell if it be the flret slice by the small bone ; and if yon 
press on the top of the meat near the middle, a small sec- 
tion of meat balges out. This is the end of the muscle 
forming the face of the rump and vein, and is very tough. 
The second cut of sirloin has the most tenderloin, and 
only a straight rib at right angles with the backbone. 
Any part after the first slice is taken off, until you come 
to the tip, is called the second cut, and is sold for roasts 
or steak. The tip is very juicy. The whole hind-quarter 
is hung up by the shin, the juices all flow down, and the 
tip holds a large portion. The muscles which are the least 
used have the roost tender fibre and the least juice. These 
muscles, lying along the loin or middle of the backbone, 
above the ribs, and forming the top of the sirloin, are more 
tender, but less juicy, than those of the rump and round. 
The tenderloin, lying along the middle of the back under 
the sirloin, from below the tip to the face of the rump, is 
protected by its bed of suet below, and its roof of bones 
above. It is a muscle very little used, is very tender, 
but dry, and entirely without flavor. This is removed 



The Boston Cook Bool:. 



whole, and sold as the long fillet; or divided, and the 
smaller part, lying under the rump, sold as the short 
fillet. 

In cold weather it is economy to buy a large sirloin. 
Remove the fillet, or tenderloin, and cook thai first, as it 



spoils easily ; corn the flank, or use it for a stew ; and 
roast the upper part. If very large, roast it slightly Ibe 
first time, and it may be roasted again for a second dinner. 

The Fore Quarter, 

The back half of the fore qnarter has the backbone on 
the upper edge. The best roasting piece is the first cut of 
the rib, which joins the tip of the sirloin, and is sometimes 
sold for the tip. The tip has only one thick muscle above 
the rib, and the bones are usually slanting. One side of 
the first cut of the rib looks just like the tip ; the other 
side has the beginning of another tough muscle next to the 
skin, and the bones are straight. There are ten ribs in 
the fore quarter; three are left in the sirloin. This first 
cut may be one, two, throe, or four ribs ; but two are 
enough to roast for a small family. The shoulder blade 
begins in the fifth rib, and ahoye this lie what are called 
the chuck ribs. The meat above the blade is tough, and 



The Boston Cook Book. 219 

only suitable for stews. The part underneath is cut into 
email steaks, and is often offered for sale as sirloin steaks, 
The shoulder of mutton, just above the fore shin, is good 
for braising and pie 
meat. 

The rattle rand is 
divided into three 
long narrow strips, 
thick and lean at 
the upper end, and 
thin and fat at tbe 
lower end, all of 
which are usually 
corned. The upper 
part, called the rat- 
tle, is divided into no. 23. Ft™t Cut or Rib. 
three cuts. The 

thick upper end is preferred by those who like lean corned 
beef. The second cut has straight ribs running through it, 
and three distinct layers of meat with fat, and is considered 
the choicest piece by those who like " a streak of fat and 



Fig. 24. Chuck Rib, with six ribs removed. 

a streak of lean." The middle strip has a thick layer of 
fat, and only one layer of lean, and the bones are slanting. 
This is not a desirable' piece. The lower strip is the 
brisket, the upper end of which is thick ; the lower end. 



L 



220 The Boston Cook Book. 

toward the middle of the creature, is called the navel end. 
Brisket pieces alwws have what is called a selvedge on 
the lower side, and the breast bones running at right angles 
with the rib. After a little experience in marketing one 
may easily distinguish the various cuts of beef. It is well 
to know what you want, and to know whether you get 
what you have ordered. 

Boast Sirloin of Beef. 

Six or eight pounds from the tip or second cut of the sirloin. 
Wipe, trim, and tie or skewer into shape. If there be a 
large piece of the flank, cut it off, and use it for soups or 
stews. If you prefer to use it for this purpose after roast- 
ing, draw it round underneath and fasten it with a skewer. 
Lay the meat on a rack in a pan, and dredge all over with 
salt, pepper, and flour. Put it in a very hot oven with two 
or three tablespoonfuh of drippings or pieces of the beef fat 
placed in the pan. Place a rack under the pan, or turn the 
heat off from the bottom of the oven. Put the skin side 
down at first, that the heat may harden the juices in the 
lean part. When the flour is brown on the pan and the 
meat is seared, baste with the fat and reduce the heat. 
Baste often, and dredge twice with salt and flour. When 
seared all over, turn and bring the skin side up for the 
final basting and browning. Bake fifty or sixty minutes, 
if liked very rare ; an hour and a quarter to an hour and 
a half, if liked well done. If there be any danger ©f 
burning the fat in the pan, add a little hot water after 
the flour is browned. Meat may be roasted and carved 
better if placed in the pan and on the platter with the 
skin up instead of the flesh side. 

Carve a sirloin roast by cutting several thin slices parallel 
with the ribs. Then cut down near the backbone and sep- 
arate the slices. Cut out the tenderloin from under the 
l>one, and slice it in the same manner. Many turn the 
eirloin over and remove the tenderloin first. Serve a little 
of the crisp fat on the flank to those who wish it. 



The Boston Cook Book. 221 

Rib Boast. — Remove the backbone and ribs. Skewer or 
tie into a round shape, and prepare as for sirloin. Allow 
a longer time for roasting, as the meat is in a more com- 
pact form without the bones. Place it skin side up on the 
platter, and carve thin slices from the flesh side. 

The Back of the Rump. — This is the best and cheapest 
piece for roasting, as the meat is all good and there is not 
as much bone as in other pieces. It is usually too large 
for a small family ; but in cold weather it may be used to 
advartage, by cutting steaks from the thickest end, using 
the small end for a roast and the bones for soup. 

In carving the rump, when the bone has not been taken 
out, a deep cut should be made at the base, to loosen the 
meat ; then the slices may be cut lengthwise or crosswise. 
When the fatuity is large and all the meat is to be used, 
it is well to cut it lengthwise. Should only a small quan- 
tity be needed, cut only from the small end, and save the 
tougher parts for a stew. Many think it more economical 
to serve the poorer parts the first da}*, as they are then 
more palatable, reserving the tender meat to be served 
co?d. 

Roast from the Round. — A slice three inches thick, from 
the best part of the top of the round, may be dredged with 
salt, pepper, and flour, and roasted. Carve in thin slices, 
the same as steak. It is rather tough, but juicy and well 
flavored. 

Yorkshire Pudding. — Beat three eggs very light. Add 
one scant teaspoonful of salt and one pint of milk. Pour half 
a cup of this mixture on two thirds of a cup of flour, and 
stir to a smooth paste. Add the remainder of the mixture 
and beat well. Bake in hot gem pans forty-five minutes. 
Baste with the drippings from the beef. This is a more 
convenient way than to bake in the pan under the beef, 
and gives more crust. Serve as a garnish for roast beef. 

Gravy for Roast Beef — When the meat is done, put it 
on a plate, and keep it hot while making the gravj'. Hold 
the corner of the dripping-pan over a bowl ; let the liquid 
in the pan settle ; then pour off all the fat and save it. 



222 



The Boston Cook Book. 



When no water is used in baking and the oven is very hot, 
this liquid will be the fat from the meat. The brown flour 
will settle, and some will adhere to the pan. Pour one pint 
of hot water or stock into the pan, and scrape off all the sedi- 
ment. Pour this water into a saucepan from which it may 
be poured easily, and place it on the stove to heat. Put 
four tablespoon/tils of the hot fat into a small filing-pan, 
and when browned stir in two heapiny tablespoonfuh of dry 
flour, or enough to absorb all the fat. Stir until the flour 
is brown and well mixed ; then add the hot'liquid grad- 
ually, and stir as it thickens. Season with salt and pepper, 
and simmer five minutes. Strain if not perfectly smooth.  
Gravy can be made in the dripping-pan ; but such pans are 
usually large, inconvenient to handle, and take up more 
space than can be spared on the top of the stove, and are 
much harder to wash when the gravy has been made in 
them. To make it in the pan, pour off nearly all the fat. 
Put the pan on the stove and add dry flour until the fat 13 
all absorbed. Then add hot water or hot stock, and stir as it 
thickens. Cook five to eight minutes, and strain. It is well 
for those who like gravies to make a large quantity, as it 
is useful in warming over the remnants of the roast. But 
there is no sauce or made gravy equal to the natural 
juices contained in the meat, which should flow freely 
into the platter when the meat is carved. 




Fillet of Beef. — Wipe, and remove the fat, veins, and 
tough tendinous portion in the middle. Trim into shape. 
Lard the upper side (see page 25). Dredge with sob, pep- 
per, and flour. Put several pieces of pork in the pan under 



The Boston Cook Booh 223 

the meat. Bake in a hot oven twenty or thirty minutes. 
If you prefer, omit the pork and put the choice pieces of 
beef fat over the meat. Serve with mushroom sauce. Or 
brush the fillet with beaten egg, and sprinkle seasoned and 
buttered crumbs all over it, and bake thirty minutes. Or 
stuff the incisions left by the removal of the veins and 
tendons with any stuffing or force-meat. Dredge with salt 
and flour, and bake. 

Broiled Steak. 

Wipe, trim off the superfluous fat, and remove the bone. 
Save the flank end for broiled meat cakes. Grease the 
gridiron with some of the fat. Broil over a clear fire, 
turning every ten seconds. Cook three or four minutes, if 
liked rare ; longer, if well done. Serve on a hot platter. 
Season with butter, salt, and pepper, or serve with Maitrp 
cT Hotel butter. Steaks should be cut at least an inch 
thick. Many prefer them much thicker. Sirloin, cross 
cut of the rump, and top of the round are all good steaks. 
The round is juicy, but has a net work of tough white fibre, 
which makes it difficult to masticate. If the steak be very 
tough, pound it with # meat hammer (a hammer with sharp 
teeth for cutting) or cut across it several times with a 
sharp knife on each side. The intense heat will sear the 
surface quickly, and prevent the escape of the juices. 

Many prefer not to remove the bone in a sirloin steak ; 
but it burns quickly, and is better for the soup kettle if 
not cooked, and the steak is more easily carved when the 
bone is removed. Carve in narrow slices, giving each 
person a bit of tenderloin, fat, and upper part. 

Broiled Fillet of Beef — Cut slices from the tenderloin. 
Wipe the meat ; grease the gridiron ; broil over a clear 
fire, turning every ten counts, for three or five minutes. 
Spread with Maitre d' Hotel butter. 

Broiled Meat Cakes. — Chop lean, raw beef quite fine. 
Season with salt, pepper, and a little chopped onion, or onion 
juice. Make it into small flat cakes, and broil on a well- 
greased gridiron or on a hot frying-pan. Serve very hot 



1 



2^4 The Boston Cook Booh 

with footer or Maitre <T Hotel sauce. The flank end of the 
sirloin is better when cooked in this manner than when 
broiled with the other part of the steak. 

Hamburgh Steak. — Pound a slice of round steak enough 
to break the fibre. Fry two or three onions, minced fine, 
in butter until slightty browned. Spread the onions over 
the meat, fold the ends of the meat together, and pound 
again, to keep the onions in the middle. Broil two or 
three minutes. Spread with butter, salt, and pepper. 

Braised Beef. 

Four to six pounds of beef from the lower part of the 
round or face of the rump. Trim, and rub well with salt, 
pepper, and flour. Cut two small onions into dice, and fry 
them until light brown in salt pork fat or dripping's. Skim 
them out into a braising-pan or large granite pan ; then 
brown the meat all over, adding more fat if needed. Put 
the meat into the pan on skewers, to keep it from stick- 
ing, with the onions around, not under, the meat. Add 
one quart of boiling water and one tabhspoonful of mixed 
herbs, which should be tied in a small piece of strainer 
cloth. Cover closely, putting a brick on the cover to keep 
it down, and cook in a moderate oven four hours, basting 
every twenty minutes. Turn over after two hours ; add 
more water as it evaporates, so as to have one pint left for 
gravy. When tender, take up the meat, remove the fat 
and bag of herbs from the gravy ; add more salt and pep- 
per, and if desired add lemon juice, tomato, or mushrooms ; 
thicken with two tabhspoonful s of flour, wet in a little cold 
water. Cook ten. minutes, and pour the gravy over the 
meat. Garnish with potato balls, boiled onions, or with veg- 
etables a la Jardiniere. Horseradish sauce maj r be served 
with the meat. This is a very nutritious, palatable, and 
convenient way of cooking the cheaper parts of beef, a 
cushion of veal, tongues, fowls, liver, and some other kinds 
of meat The meat is equally good cold or hot ; there is 
no waste if care be taken not to let it become hard and dry 



The Boston Cook Book. 225 

by being exposed to the air. This method of cooking 
commends itself especially to those who " are tired of 
roasted, boiled, or fried meat." 

Beef k la Mode. 

Four to six pounds from the under part of the round of 
beef, cut thick. Wipe, and trim off the rough edges. Put 
it in a deep earthen dish, and pour over it spiced vine- 
gar, made by boiling for five minutes one cup of vinegar, 
one onion, chopped fine, three teaspoonfuh of salt, and half a 
teaspoonful each of mustard, pepper, cloves, and allspice. 
Let the meat stand several hours, turning it often. Then 
daub it with ten or twelve strips of salt pork, cut one third of 
an inch wide, and as long as the meat is thick, inserting 
them with a larding-needle or carving-steel. Or make 
large incisions and stuff with bread crumbs, highly seasoned 
with salt, pepper, onions, thyme, marjoram, etc., moistened 
with hot water, one tablespoonful of butter, and one well-beaten 
egg. Tie it into good shape with a narrow strip of cotton 
cloth, to keep in the stuffing. Dredge with flour. Cut 
two onions, half a carrot, and half a turnip fine, and fry 
them in fat or drippings until brown. Put them in the 
Btewpan. Then brown the meat all over in the fat ; put 
it on a trivet in the pan, and half cover with boiling water. 
Add one tablespoonful of mixed herbs, tied in a small 
strainer cloth. Cover closely, and simmer four hours, or 
until tender. Take it up carefully, remove the strings, and 
put it on a large platter. Remove the fat from the gravj', 
add more seasoning, and thicken with flour wet in a little 
cold water ; boil eight minutes, and strain it over the meat. 
Garnish with potato balls and small onions. 

Beef Stew with Dumplings. 

The aitch bone is the nicest piece for a beef stew. There v 

is some very juicy meat on the upper side in the large • " 

muscle which lies next to the top of the round, and it will 
serve a small family for a roast, and then may be made 

15 



*! 



226 The Boston Cook Book, 

into a stew. The flavor obtained by roasting adds much 
to the stew ; for this reason, when the meat has not been 
cooked, brown it in a little fat before stewing. The bones 
should never be chopped and splintered, but sawed care- 
fully, and all the fine, crumbly pieces removed before 
cooking. Other good pieces for stews are two or three 
pounds from the middle cut of the sh\n, or the flank end of 
a large sirloin roast, or the .upper part of the chuck rib. 
Any part that has bone and fat, as well as lean, either 
cooked or uncooked, makes the best-flavored stew. The 
fat and bones may be removed before serving, and such 
pieces are much better than drj T , lean meat. Remove the 
meat from the bones, and put them with part of the fat 
into the stewpan. Cut the meat into small pieces, and if not 
previous^ cooked, dredge with salt, pepper, and flour, and 
brown all over in salt pork fat or drippings. Put it into 
the stewpan. Cut two onions, one small white turnip, and 
half a small carrot (if you like the flavor) into half-inch 
dice. Cook them slightly in the dripping, and add them 
to the stew. Add boiling water enough to cover, and sim- 
mer two or three hours, or till the meat is tender. Remove 
the bones, and skim off the fat. While the meat is cook- 
ing pare six or eight small potatoes, and soak them in cold 
water. When the meat is tender, pour boiling water over 
them, and boil five minutes to take out the acrid taste. 
Drain, and add them to the stew. Add salt and pepper to 
taste. When dumplings are to be served with the stew, 
add them when the potatoes are nearly done. The liquor 
should come up just even with the potatoes, that the dump- 
plings may rest on them. Cover closely to keep in the 
steam, and cook ten minutes without lifting the cover. 
Take out the dumplings, put the meat and potatoes in 
the centre of a hot platter, and the dumplings round the 
edge. 

Remove the fat, and add more salt and pepper, if needed, 
to the broth ; and if not thick enough, add a little flour 
wet smooth in cold water, and boil five minutes. Add one 
cup of strained tomato and one teaspoonful of chopped parsley 



The Boston Cook Book. 227 

Pour the gravy over the meat, putting part of it in a sauce 
tureen if there be more than the platter will hold. 

Dumplings. — One pint of flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and half a teaspoonful 
of soda (or two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder) . Mix with 
one scant cup of sweet milk into a dough soft enough to 
handle easily. Pat it out half an inch thick. Cut in small 
rounds, or mix softer and drop by the spoonful into the 
boiling stew. Cook ten minutes. 

Rolled Flank of Beef. 

Four or Jive pounds of the flank. Wipe, and remove the 
skin, membrane, and extra fat. Pound and trim until of 
uniform thickness. Make a stuffing with one cup of cracker 
crumbs, two tablespoonfuls of fine chopped salt pork, half a 
teaspoonful of salt, one saUspoonful each of thyme, marjoram, 
and sage, half a saUspoonful of pepper, a few drops of onion 
juice, or one teaspoonful of chopped onion, and one egg. 
Moisten with hot water until soft enough to spread over the 
meat. Roll over, and tie or sew securely. Wrap a cloth 
around it. Put it into boiling water, and simmer six 
hours or until tender. Remove the cloth, press it, and 
when cold remove the strings. Serve cold, cut in thin 
slices. Corned flank may be prepared in the same way. 
The stuffing may be omitted, and the meat covered with 
vinegar spiced and flavored with onion, and after remain- 
ing in the pickle several hours, rolled, and boiled as above. 

Smothered Beef, or Pot Roast. 

Four to six pounds from the middle or face of the rump, 
the vein, or the round. Wipe with a clean wet cloth. 
Sear all over by placing in a hot frying-pan and turning 
till all the surface is browned. Put in a kettle with one 
cup. of water, and place it where it will keep just below the 
boiling-point. Do not let the water boil entirely away, 
but add only enough to keep the meat from burning 



228 The Boston Cook Book. 

Have the cover fitting closely to keep in the steam. Cook 
until very tender, but do not let it break. Serve hot or 
cold. The meat when cold is delicious, cut in quarter- 
inch slices, and sauted in hot butter. 

Spiced Beef. 

Four to six pounds from the middle cut of the shin. Wash 
the meat on the outside, and cut off any part of the skin 
which is not sweet and clean. Pick off all the fine frag- 
ments of bone. Cut the meat into several pieces ; cover 
with boiling water. Skim carefully as it boils, and then 
simmer until the meat falls to pieces, and the liquor is 
reduced to half a pint. Remove the meat ; season the 
liquor nighty with salt, pepper, sage, and thyme. Add it 
to the meat, and mix with a fork till the meat is all 
broken. Pack in a brickloaf pan. When cold, cut in 
thin slices. 

Corned Beef. 

Select a piece of beef which has a fair proportion of fat, — 
the brisket or second cut of rattle rand. If very salt, soak 
in cold water half an hour. Put on to boil in fresh cold 
water, enough to cover it ; skim, carefully when it begins to 
boil, and cook slowly, simmering (not boiling) until so 
tender that } r ou can pick it to pieces- with a fork. Let the 
water boil awav toward the last, and let the beef stand in 
the water until partially cooled. Lift it out of the water 
with a skimmer, and pack it in a brickloaf pan ; let the 
long fibres run the length of the pan ; mix in the fat so 
that it will be well marbled. Put a thin board, a trifle 
smaller than the inside of the pan, over the meat, and press 
by putting a heavy weight on the board. When cold, cut 
in thin slices. It has a very attractive appearance, and is 
a delicious way of preparing the meat. It is also the most 
appetizing way of serving the fat of the meat, which in 
corned beef is the most nutritious part and is often un- 
touched if offered in a mass on the edge of the lean. 



The Boston Cook Book. 229 



An Old-fashioned Boiled Dinner. {Mrs. Poor.) 

Notwithstanding that this dish has fallen into ill-repute 
with many people, it may be prepared so as to be both pal- 
atable and nutritions for those who exercise freely. It is 
more suitable for cold seasons. The most healthful and 
economical way, though perhaps not the old-fashioned way, 
is to boil the beef the day before. 

Four pounds of corned beef, two or three beets, a small cab- 
bage, two small carrots, one small white French turnip, six or 
fight potatoes of uniform size, and one small crooked-neck 
iquash. 

Wash and soak the corned beef in cold water, and put it 
Dn to boil in fresh cold water ; skim, and simmer until ten- 
der, but not long enough for it to fall to pieces. Let it 
cool in the liquor in which it was boiled. Put it into a 
flat shallow dish, cover it with a board, and press it. 
Remove all the fat from the meat liquor, and save it to 
clarify for shortening. Save the meat liquor, but do- not 
let it stand in an iron kettle or tin pan. Boil the beets 
the day before, also, and cover them with vinegar. The 
next day prepare the vegetables. Wash them all, scrape 
the carrots, and cut the cabbage into quarters ; pare the 
turnip and squash, and cut into three-quarter-inch slices, 
and pare the potatoes. Put the meat liquor on to boil 
about two hours before dinner time ; . when boiling, put in 
the carrots, afterward the cabbage and turnip, and half an 
hour before dinner add the squash and potatoes. When 
tender, take the vegetables up carefully ; drain the water 
from the cabbage by pressing it in a colander. Slice the 
carrots. Put the cold meat in the centre of a large dish, 
and serve the carrots, turnips, and potatoes round the edge, 
with the squash, cabbage, and pickled beets in separate 
dishes ; or serve each vegetable in a dish by itself. This 
may all be done the same day if the meat be put on to 
boil ver} T early, removed as soon as tender, the fat taken 
off, and the vegetables added to the boiling meat liquor, 
beginning with those which require the longest time to 



230 The Boston Cook Booh 

cook. This will depend very much upon their freshness. 
But whichever way the dish is prepared, boil the beets 
alone, remove the meat and fat before adding the vege- 
tables, and serve each as whole and daintily as possible. 
The next morning use what remains of the vegetables as a 
vegetable hash. 

Vegetable Bash. — Equal parts of cabbage, beets, and tur~ 
nips, and as much potato as there is of all the other vege- 
tables. Chop all very fine ; add a little salt and pepper ; 
put a spoonful of drippings in the frying-pan, and when 
hoi add the hash, and cook slowly until warmed through. 

Tongue in Jelly. 

Wash a fresh tongue, and skewer the tip to the root. 
Cook until tender in boiling salted water ; remove the skin ; 
trim and tie it in good shape. Season two quarts of soup 
stock highly with salt, pepper, herbs, and wine or lemon. 
Clear it with eggs, and stiffen with the proportion of Cox's 
gelatine, as given for Aspic Jelly. Pour a little jelly into 
a mould ; when cool, lay in the cold tongue, and add the 
remainder of the jelly slowly. 

Smoked Tongue. — Smoked tongues are much more pala- 
table, though not so economical as when fresh. Bend the 
tip of the tongue around, and tie it to the root. Put it in 
cold water and place over the fire. When the water boils, 
pour off the water, and put it on again in cold water. 
Boil until tender, or about two hours. Remove the skin, 
roots, and fat. Pour a white sauce over the tongue, and 
serve it hot; or serve it cold with a salad dressing. 
Tongues may also be braised (see Braised Beef, page 224) 
and served hot or cold. 

Lyonnaise Tripe. 

Tripe should always be boiled twenty to thirty minutes 
before cooking, or it will be tough. 

Cut the tripe in small pieces ; boil twenty-five minutes, 
and drain. Fry one tablespoonful of chopped onion in one 



I 

i 



The Boston Cook Book. 231 

- ~ - 1 

heaping tablespoonful of butter till yellow. Add the tripe, 
one tablespoonful of vinegar, and one tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, salt and pepper to taste. Simmer five minutes, 
and serve plain or on toast. 

Broiled Tripe. — Boil the tripe twenty minutes ; dry it, 
spread with soft butter, salt, and pepper, and broil until 
brown. 

Tripe in Batter. — Boil the tripe twenty minutes. Cut 
in pieces two inches square, dip in batter, and fry in salt 
pork fat in a frying-pan. 

Batter. — One egg, one quarter of a cup of water, one 
tablespoonful of vinegar, one teaspoonful of salt, and flour to 
make almost a drop batter. 

Liver. 

Soak ten minutes in boiling water to draw out the 
blood. Drain ; remove the thin skin and veins. Cut 
into pieces for serving. Season with salt and pepper; 
roll in flour, and fry in salt pork or bacon fat. Drain, and 
serve with a brown gravy, seasoned with onion, lemon 
juice, or vinegar. Or spread with butter, and broil, and 
season with salt, pepper, and butter. 

Kidneys. 

Beef and sheep's kidneys are often recommended for 
food on account of their cheapness. Epicures are fond 
of them. The taste for them is an acquired taste, which 
it is not desirable to cultivate. The latest decision of 
physicians is that they are not suitable to eat ; as " from 
their constant use in the animal system as excretory or- 
gans, — organs which separate from the blood that which, 
if it remained in the blood, would poison the sj T stem, — 
they are often liable to become diseased." 



232 The Boston Cook Booh. 



MUTTON AND LAMB. 

Mutton stands next to beef in nutritive qualities, and 
with man j has even more value as food, because more 
easily digested. In mutton about one half the weight is 
in fat, while with beef it is only one third. 

The choicest mutton comes from the mountainous re* 
gions of Pennsj 7 lvania, Virginia, and North Carolina. 
Good mutton should be large and heavy, the fat clear 
white and very hard, the flesh fine-grained and bright 
red. Poor mutton has but little fat, and little flesh as 
compared with the bone. 

Mutton is cut at the market by splitting down the back, 
and dividing at the loin into the hind and fore quarters ; 
or the hind and fore quarters are separated without split- 
ting, and the loin is taken out whole and sold as the sad- 
dle of mutton. The leg, loin, and saddle are best for 
roasting, and are better if kept for some time before cook- 
ing. The leg, if to be boiled, should be fresh. The fore 
quarter is good boned and stuffed ; then steamed, and 
browned in the oven. The neck and bones are used for 
broths and stews. Chops are cut from the ribs and from 
the loin. The rib chops are sometimes cut long, with the 
flank on. The bone is removed and the meat rolled. 
These roll chops are not economical, as the flank forms the 
greater part. French chops are cut short from the rib, 
and the flesh is scraped clean from the end of the bone. 
The best-flavored, most tender, and cheapest in the end, 
are the chops from the loin. They have very little bone, 
and a piece of tenderloin. 

Mutton has a strong flavor, disagreeable to many. It 
is said to be caused by the oil from the wool, which pen- 
etrates the skin. The pink skin above the fat should 
always be removed from chops, and wherever it is poa- 



The Boston Cook Book. 233 

1 

  " .... . . ... ,» , .. 

sible, scrape it off without cutting into the lean. The 
caul, or lining membrane of the abdomen, is fastened 
round the meat, particularly on the leg, partly to increase 
its weight. This is often left on in roasting to help baste 
the meat ; but it gives a strong flavor, and should always 
be removed, and the kidney fat used if needed. If care 
be taken in selecting only the best mutton, and in cook- 
ing it in the best manner, man}' who have become preju- 
diced against it could eat it with as much relish as beef. 
Mutton may be cooked rare, but lamb should always be 
well cooked. The end of the bone in a leg of mutton is 
smooth and oval, and is separated at the joint; while 
lamb may be known from mutton by the flat, irregularly 
grooved end of the bone, which is broken off squarety, 
instead of separated at the joint. Sometimes the bone 
is cut off close to the second joint, and then you will have 
to depend upon the word of your butcher. 

Saddle or Loin of Mutton or Lamb. 

Trim off all the pink skin and superfluous fat. Remove 
the ends of the ribs, the cord, and veins along the back. 
Wipe, and rub the inside with salt. Roll the flank under 
on each side, and sew it across the middle. Dredge with 
salt, pepper, andjlour ; place it in the pan, with the inside 
up, in order to thoroughly cook the fat. Baste, and 
dredge often. When the fat is brown and crisp, turn, 
and cook the upper part till brown. Keep a buttered 
paper over it to prevent burning. 

Carve long slices parallel with the backbone, then slip 
the knife under and separate the slices from the ribs. 
Divide the slices, and serve with some of the crisp fat. 

A loin of mutton may be stuffed and rolled, having first 
removed the ends of the ribs. Bake, and serve in slices 
cut at right angles with the backbone. 

Leg of Mutton, Stuffed and Roasted. 

Remove the bone ; wipe inside and out with a wet cloth ; 
sprinkle the inside with salt; stuff and sew. Put it on a 



1 



234 The Boston Cook Booh. 

rack in a dripping-pan, with some of the kidney suet on 
the meat and in the pan. Dredge with salt, pepper, and 
flour, and bake in a hot oven. Baste as soon as the flour 
is brown, and baste often. Bake one hour, if liked rare ; 
one hour and a quarter, if well done. 

Stuffing, — One cup of cracker or stale bread crumbs. 
Season with one saUspoonful each of salt, pepper, thyme, or 
marjoram, and moisten with a quarter of a cup of melted 
hitter. Add hot water if a moist stuffing be desired. 

Soiled Leg of Mutton or Lamb, — Wipe, remove the fat, 
and put into well-salted boiling water. Skim, and simmer 
twelve minutes for each pound of meat. One quarter of a 
cup of rice is sometimes boiled with the mutton, or the 
meat may be tied in a cloth to keep it from becoming 
discolored. Serve with a thick caper sauce poured over the 
mutton. Garnish with parsley. Serve with currant jelly. 

Carve slices from the thickest part of the leg down to 
the bone ; then slip the knife under and remove the slices 
from the bone. The thickest part of the leg should be 
toward the back of the platter. 

What to do with a Fore Quarter of Mutton. 

Mutton Duck. — Select a fore quarter of mutton with 
the whole length of the leg bone left on. Ask the butcher 
to cut off what is called a raised shoulder, that is, raised 
from the backbone and ribs, cutting it far up on the 
shoulder to take in the whole of the shoulder blade, bone, 
and gristle. You may cut it yourself by removing the 
neck, the back bones, the ribs, and breast bones, leaving 
the shoulder blade in the upper part. Then scrape the 
flesh from the shoulder blade, and separate the blade at 
the joint. Lay it aside for further use. Remove the meat 
from the leg bone, turning the meat over, as you would 
turn a glove over your hand. Be careful not to cut 
through the thin skin at the end of the leg. When within 
three inches of the lower joint, saw the bone off, and saw 
or trim the bone below the joint into the shape of a duck's 
bill. Bend the joint without breaking the skin. Wipe the 






The Boston Cook Book. 234 

meat and rub inside with tall. Make a moist stuffing and 
put it in between the layers of meat. With a coarse needle 
threaded with twine gather the edges of the meat, draw 
them together, fill the cavity with stuffing, and shape the 
meat into a long oval form like the body of a duck. Bend 
the leg at the lower joint to represent the duck's head and- 
neck, and keep it in place with skewers. Bun one skewer 



through the side at the tdp of the body, and put one into the 
body on each side of the neck. Wind a string around the 
bill, and fasten it to the skewers. Scrape the shoulder blade 
clean, trim the bony end into a sharp point, and notch the 
gristle at the opposite end. Insert this in the body to 
represent the tail, and fasten with twine. Put the bones 
and scraps of meat in water in a steamer or kettle. Place 
the duck on a plate, and steam it over the bones one hour 
to make it tender. Dredge with soft, pepppr, and flour, 
and bake one hour, or till brown; use the water in the 
kettle for basting if needed, or for a gravy. Tie paper 
over the head and tail to prevent burning. This may be 
made of lamb, and if tender will require no steaming. 
Garnish with parsley and Scotch eggs, or with any kind of 
force-meal balls, crumbed and fried, or with egg-shaped 
potato croqvetUe 

This Mock Duck is an attractive way of serving what is 
usually considered an inferior piece of meat, and solves the 
vexing problem, " how to carve a fore quarter of mutton." 



236 The Boston Cook Booh 



The bones may be entirely removed, and the meat 
stuffed, and sewed in an oval shape, then steamed and 
browned ; this will prove just as palatable to those who do 
not crave something new. In serving, cut it across in 
medium slices. 

Braised Mutton. — Bone and stuff the leg or the fore 
quarter, as directed in the preceding receipts ; cut the bone 
at the joints. Add oysters to the stuffing if preferred, 
and cook the same as braised beef. The breast of mut- 
ton maj- be boned and rolled without stuffing and then 
braised. 

Lamb or Mutton Chops. — Wipe with a wet cloth; re- 
move the skin and extra fat ; have a frying-pan hissing 
hot, without any fat ; put in the chops and cook one 
minute, turn, and sear the other side ; cook more slowly 
until done, five minutes if liked rare. Stand them up 
on the fat edge to brown the fat, without over-cooking 
the meat. When nearl}' done, sprinkle a little salt on each 
side. Drain on paper, and serve hot, either plain or with 
tomato or Soubise sauce. 

Mutton Cutlets, Breaded. — Trim the cutlets, and season 
with salt and pepper. Dip in crumbs, beaten egg, and crumbs 
again, and fry in smoking hot fat, four to six 
minutes if rare, eight to ten if well done. Ar- 
range in the centre of a hot dish, and pour tomato 
sauce around them, or place them around a mound 
of mashed potatoes or spinach. Trim the bones 
with a paper ruffle; or arrange them with the 
bone end up, stacked like bayonets, and gar- 
nish with stuffed tomatoes. 
Fio. 27. Chops en Papillote. — Wipe, trim, wrap in but- 

aper u e. ^ ere ^ p a p ers? an fl broil from three to five min- 
utes ; season, and serve plain or trimmed with paper 
ruffles. Or make a thick sauce with one cup of boiling 
stock, thickened with one heaping tablespoonful of flour and 
one tablespoonful of butter, cooked together and flavored 
with mushrooms, parsley, and lemon juice. La}' the cutlets 
on clean papers, spread the sauce over them, fold the 




The Boston Cook Book. 237 

edges, place in a pan in the oven for ten minutes. Servo 

in the papers. If tue chops be tough, dip them in olive oil 

before broiling. 

Fricassee of Mut- 
ton or Lamb with 

Peas. — Cut two 

pounds of the breast 

of mutton or lamb 

into square pieces. 

Dredge with salt 

and flour, and 

brown in butter 

or drippings. Put 

them in a stew- 
pan with one onion 

sliced, cover with 

boiling •water, and Fio23 cho 

simmer until the 

bones slip out. Remove the bones, strain the liquor, skim 
off the fat, and when the liquor boils again, add the meat, 
salt, and pepper, and stew until 
nearly tender ; then add one quart 
of peas, or one pint of boiled mac- 
aroni cut into half-inch pieces, or 
one pint of asparagus tips, and sim- 
mer fifteen minutes. 

Mutton Stew for Two. — Two mut- 
ton chops, cut from near the shoul- 
der. Put them in a shallow pan 
having a tight cover. Pour on 
boiling water to tbe depth of one 
inch ; cover and simmer one hour ; 
add more water aa it boils away, 
using only enough to keep the 
meat from burning. Add two 

Pio. 20. Chop in Pbmt. "™» a 

^ dices Of French turnip, two small 

onions whole ; and when the meat and turnip are nearly 
tender, add two common-sixed potatoes, having first soaked 



238 The Boston Cook Book. 

and scalded them. Add one teaspoonful of salt and a little 
pepper. Remove the vegetables without breaking ; let the 
water boil nearly away, leaving enough for a gravy. Re- 
move the fat, thicken the gravy with flour, and if needed 
add salt and tomato catchup. Pour it over the meat. 

Curry of Mutton. — Fry one large onion, cut fine, in one 
heaping taUespoonful of butter. Mix one taUespoonful of 
curry powder, one teaspoonful of salt, one taUespoonful of 
flour, and stir it into the butter and onion. Add gradu- 
ally one pint of hot water or stock. Cut two pounds of lean 
mutton into small pieces, and brown them in hot fat ; add 
them to the sauce, and simmer until tender. Place the 
meat on a hot dish, and arrange a border of boiled rice 
or Turkish pilaf around the meat. Slices of cold cooked 
mutton may be used instead of the fresh meat. Veal 
curry is prepared in the same manner. 

Ragout of Mutton, made from the fore quarter, or anv 
cooked mutton, may be prepared as directed for beef 
stew, adding carrots and turnips cut 1 small, and seasoning 
highly. 

Sheep's Tongues, Braised. 

Wash, dredge with salt and flour, and brown in salt pork 
fat, with one or two minced onions. Put them in a pan 
with water or stock to half cover ; add one sprig of parsley, 
a little salt and pepper; cover and cook two hours, or until 
tender. Remove the skin, and trim neatly at the roots. 
Place a mound of spinach in the centre of the dish ; ar- 
range the tongues around the spinach, alternating with 
diamonds of fried bread. 

Lambs' Tongues, Boiled. — Boil six tongues in salted 
water, with the juice of half a lemon, until tender. Serve 
cold with Tartar sauce. Or pickle them by covering witf 
hot spiced vinegar. 



The Boston Cook Book. , ,A' 239 



VEAL. 

Veal is always in the market, but is. better in the 
spring. The fat should be white and clear ; and the lean, 
pink or flesh color. If the flesh be white, the calf has 
been bled before being killed, and the meat is unfit to eat. 
Veal contains less nitrogen, but more gelatine, than beef. 
It has very little flavor, and needs to be highly seasoned 
to make it even palatable. Veal stands lowest among 
heat-producing meats, and should be eaten with potatoes 
or rice, which stand highest, or with bacon and jelly, which 
furnish in their fat and sugar the carbon wanting in the 
flesh. It should always be thoroughly cooked, as under- 
done veal is not wholesome. At its lowest price veal is 
never a cheap food when we take into consideration the 
small amount of nutriment it contains, the large amount of 
fuel required to cook it, and the danger of being made ill 
by its use. 

The lower part of the leg or knuckle and all the gristly 
portions are used for soups. Cutlets, or steaks, the fillet, 
fricandeau, or cushion, are cut from the thickest part of 
the leg. The loin is used for chops or roasts, the breast 
for roasts, and the neck for stews and soups. Calf s head 
and pluck includes the lights, heart, and liver. The head 
is used for soup, the heart and liver for braising. The 
lights are now seldom used. 

Boast Veal. 

The loin, breast, and fillet (a thick piece from the upper 
part of the leg) are the best pieces for roasting. The 
bone should be removed from the fillet, and the cavity 
filled with a highly seasoned and very moist stuffing. Tie 
or skewer into a round shape. Dredge with *a&, pepper. 



240 The, Boston Cook Book. 

and four. Put strips of pork over the top, and bake. 
Allow half an hour to a pound. Cover with a buttered 
paper to keep the meat from burning. Add water, when 
the flour has browned, and baste often. Serve with horse- 
radish or tomato sauce, 

Fricandeau of Veal. — This is made of a thick piece of 
lean meat from/the top of the leg. Trim it off high in the 
centre and thief on the edges, and lard the top. Braise it 
in stock highly seasoned with bacon, onions, and herbs (see 
Braised Beef). Serve it with tomato or horseradish sauce. 

Veal Stew or Fricassee. 

The ends of the ribs, the neck, and the knuckle may be 
utilized in a stew. Cut the meat — two pounds — in small 
pieces, and remove all the fine bones. Cover the meat 
with boiling water ; skim as it begins to boil ; add two small 
onions, two teaspoonfuU of salt, and one saltspoonful of pep- 
per. Simmer until thoroughly tender. Cut four potatoes 
in halves ; soak in cold water, and parboil them five min- 
utes ; add them to the stew. Add one tablespoonful of 
flour wet in cold water, and more seasoning if desired ; 
and just before serving add one cup of cream, or if milk be 
used add one tablespoonful of Sutter. Remove the bones 
before serving. To make Veal Pot-Pie add dumplings, as 
in Beef Stew. If intended for a fricassee, fry the veal in 
salt pork fat before stewing, and omit the potatoes. Add 
one egg to the liquor just before serving, if you wish it 
richer. 

Veal Cutlets. (Joanna Sheeny.) 

One slice of veal from the leg. Wipe, and remove the 
bone, skin, and tough membranes. Pound and cut, or shape 
into pieces for serving. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
Roll in fine crumbs, then dip in beaten egg, then in crumbs 
again. Fry several slices of salt pork, and fry the cutlets 
brown in the pork fat. When brown, put the cutlets in a 
stewpan. Make a brown gravy with one tablespoonful of 
butter, or the fat remaining in the pan if it be not 



The Boston Cook Book. 241 

burned, and two heaping tablespoonfuls of flour. Pour 
on gradually a cup and a half of slock or water. Season 
with Worcestershire sauce or lemon or horseradish or tomato. 
Pour the gravy over the outlets, and simmer forty-five min- 
utes or till tender. Take them out on a platter, remove 
the fat from the gravy, add more seasoning if needed, and 
strain over the cutlets. Garnish with lemon and parsley. 

Caffs Liver, Braised. 

Wipe with a clean wet cloth. Lard the rounded Bide 
with bacon or salt pork. Fry one onion in salt pork fat. 
Put the liver and fried onion in a braising-pan ; add hot 
water or stock to half cover, one teaspoon/id of salt, one salt- 
spoonful of pepper, and one tablespoonful of herbs. Cover, - 
and cook in a moderate oven two hours, basting often. 
When ready to serve, strain the liquor, season with lemon 
juice, and pour it over the liver. 

Calf's Heart, Braised. — Wash, remove the veins and 
arteries, and stuff with cracker crumbs, seasoned with onion 
juice, salt, pepper, and herbs, and moistened with butter. 



Lard with bacon or salt pork. Dredge with salt and flour. 
Fry one onion in salt pork fat or dripping ; brown the meat 
in the pork fat. Cook it as liver is cooked, by the preced- 
ing receipt. 

Calf's Head 

Scrape and clean a calf s head. - Take out the brains and 
tongue, and put them in cold water. Remove all the dark 
membrane from the inside, and the gristle around the nose 



242 The Boston Cook Book. 

and eyes. Soak two hours in lukewarm water to whiten 
it. Put the head, tongue, and heart on to boil in cold 
water, and skim carefully. Add one tablespoonful of herbs 
tied in a piece of strainer cloth, one tablespoonful of salt, 
and one saltspoonful of pepper. Pour boiling water over the 
liver, let it stand ten minutes, and when the head is nearly 
done, add the liver. When done, take up the head ; re- 
move the skin in as nice pieces as possible. Put the 
pieces of head meat on the platter ; lay the skin over them. 
Cut the heart, tongue, and liver in slices, and place them 
round the edge of the dish. If the head is to be served 
with the bones, tie it in a floured cloth, and boil it until 
tender, but not long enough for the skin to fall off. Serve 
it plain ; or score the top, brush with beaten egg, sprinkle 
buttered cracker crumbs over it, and brown in the oven. 
Serve with it a brown sauce piquante, tomato sauce, or 
brain sauce. 

Brain Sauce. — Clean the brains, remove the red mem- 
brane, and soak in cold water. Put them into one pint of 
cold water with one tablespoonful of lemon juice and half a 
teaspoonful of salt. Boil ten minutes ; then plunge into 
cold water. Make one pint of drawn butter sauce; flavor 
with lemon and parsley; add the brains chopped fine, and 
when hot serve. 

Calf's Bead, Minced. — Chop what is left of the head, 
tongue, and liver verj' fine, and warm it in a sauce made 
with the meat liquor ; season with lemon or horseradish, salt, 
and pepper. 

Sweetbreads. 

The sweetbreads found in veal are considered the best. 
They are two large glands lying along the back of the 
throat and in the breast. The lower one is round and 
compact, and called the heart sweetbread, because nearer 
the heart. The upper, or throat, sweetbread is long and 
narrow, and easily divided into sections. The connecting 
membrane is sometimes broken, and each gland sold as a 
whole sweetbread. But there should alwaj-s be two. Sweet- 



The Boston Cook Book. 243 

breads were formerly thrown away as worthless ; but the 
demand for them has increased so that now they are a lux- 
ury. They have a delicate flavor, and as they spoil 
quickly, should be put into cold water as soon as pur* 
chased, and parboiled before using in any form, to insure 
their being thoroughly cooked. They are sometimes left 
ou the breast of veal, aud may then be roasted with the 
meat. 

To Prepare Sweetbreads. — Put them in cold water; re- 
move the pipes and membranes. Cook them in boiling 
salted water, with one taUespoonful of lemon Juice, twenty 
minutes, and plunge into cold water to harden. They may 
then be cooked in either of the following ways : — 

Larded. — Lard, and bake until brown, basting with 
brown stock. Serve with peas. 

Fried. — Koll in fine bread crumbs, egg, and a second 
time in crumbs, and fry in deep fat, or saute in a little fat, 

No. 2. — Cut in 
half -inch slices, roll 
in seasoned crumbs, 
egg, and crumbs again. 
Put three slices on a 
small skewer, alter- 
nating with three thin 

Slices of bacon one *„,.„,. sweetbread* and Bacon. 

inch square. Fry in 

deep fat. Serve on the skewers, with tomato sauce. 

Creamed. — Cut in small pieces, and serve in a white 
sauce, on toast or in toast patties or in puff-paste shells or 
as a vol-au-vent. 

Broiled. — Eub with butter, salt, and pepper; wrap in 
buttered paper, and broil ten minutes. Serve with Maiire 
$ Hotel batter. 

Scalloped or in Cases. — Cut or break the sweetbreads 
into small sections. Mix with a rich cream sauce made 
with eggs (see page 190). Put them in a scallop dish, in 
shells, or in paper cases. Cover with buttered crumbs, and 
bake until the crumbs are brown. 



244 



The Boston Cook Book. 



With Mushrooms. — Prepare as for creamed or scalloped, 
and add half or an equal amount of mushrooms, chopped 
or cut into quarters. Garnish with toast points. 

Braised. — Lard with bacon. Put in a covered pan 
with fried onions, and parsley, and a pinch of herbs, tied 
in a cloth. Half cover with stock. Bake forty or fifty 
minutes. 

Fritters. — Break into sections, and mix with a fritter 
batter (page 106). Fry by small spoonfuls in deep fat. 

Sweetbread Croquettes, see Index. 

To serve sweetbreads, either larded, broiled, or fried, 
arrange around a centre of tomato sauce, mushrooms, or 




Fio. 82. Sweetbreads on Macaroni 



peas. Or put the sweetbreads in the centre on a nest 
of boiled macaroni. Sprinkle the macaroni with cheese, 
and pour white sauce or tomato sauce over it ; or garnish 
the sweetbreads with stuffed tomatoes. 



The Boston Cook Book. 245 



PORK. 

Pork is an unwholesome meat, and should never be 
eaten by children, or people with weak digestion, nor, 
indeed, by any one except in cold weather. Salt pork, 
bacon, and ham are less objectionable than fresh pork. 
If fresh pork be desired, obtain it, if possible, from a 
source where you can be sure the animal has been kept 
in a cleanly manner and fattened on corn. Fresh pork 
should be young and firm, the fat white, the lean a pale 
red, and the skin white and clear. The fat, when salted, 
should be a delicate pink, and the rind should be thin. 
Soft, flabby flesh, and yellowish fat with kernels, indicate 
that the pork is not of the best quality. Unlike other 
meat, pork is divided into fat and lean. The flank and 
the thick layer of fat above the flesh are salted. The 
sides of very 3'oung pigs are smoked, as well as salted, and 
are called bacon. The hams and shoulders are salted 
and smoked. The head and feet are pickled or boiled, 
and made into souse or head cheese. After the fat is 
removed, the loin and ribs are used for roasting or for 
chops. The leaf fat from the kidneys is heated until 
melted, then strained, cooled, and used as lard. The 
trimmings of lean and fat, when chopped and highly 
seasoned, are called sausage meat. 

Eoast Pig. 

Select a pig from three to five weeks old. Clean well, 
and stuff with hot mashed potatoes, or stale bread, highly 
seasoned with sage, salt, pepper, and onions. If bread be 
used, moisten with warm water, melted butter, and one beaten 
egg. Stuff and sew. Skewer the fore legs forward, and 



246 The Boston Cook Booh 



the hind legs backward. Rub all over with butter ', salt, 
pepper, and flour. Put it into a pan with a little water ; 
the oven should not be very hot at first, as it should be 
thoroughly warmed through before browning. Baste very 
often, and at first use melted butter to make the skin tender 
and soft. Be careful not to let it burn. Bake two and a 
half or three hours. Arrange in a bed of parsley and 
celery leaves, with a " tuft of cauliflower in the mouth and a 
garland of parsley round the neck." Serve with apple sauce 
or pickles. In carving, cut off the head, then the hams 
and shoulders ; split down the back, and separate the 
ribs. 

Roast Pork. — The chine, or loin, and the spare ribs are 
the best pieces for roasting. Rub well with pepper, or sage, 
salt, and Jlour, and bake twenty minutes for each pound. 
Baste often, and do not have the oven as hot as for 
other meat. Roast pork is more wholesome when eaten 
cold. 

Pork Chops or Steaks. — If pork chops are to be broiled, 
thej r should be cut very thin, salted, and peppered, wrapped 
in greased paper, and broiled until thoroughly cooked, — 
from ten to fifteen minutes. To fry or saute them, cook 
them in a hot frying-pan in a little hot lard or salt pork fat. 
Cook slowly after they are brown, and be careful not to 
burn them. If a gravy be desired, pour off nearlj' all the 
fat left in the frying-pan, add two tablespoonfuls of Jlour, 
and when brown add hot water until of the desired consist-, 
ency. Season with salt, pepper, vinegar, and chopped 
pickles. 

Breakfast Bacon. — Cut off the rind and smoked part ; 
slice very thin ; cook in a frying-pan till the fat is tried 
out and the bacon is dry and crisp, or fry in deep fat. 
Drain on paper, and serve alone or as a garnish for 
beefsteak. 

Fried Salt Pork. — Cut fat salt pork in thin slices ; pour 
hot water over them ; drain, and fry in a pan until crisp ; 
or roll in egg and crumbs, and fry in deep hot fat. Serve 
with salt fish ox fried mush or baked potatoes. 



The Boston Cook Book. 247 



Boiled Ham. 

If very salt, let it soak over night. Scrub well ; trim off 
the hard black part, cover with cold water, and let it 
simmer slowlj T , allowing half an hour to the pound. Take 
it from the fire ; let it remain in the water until nearly 
cold ; then peel off the skin and sprinkle sugar and grated 
bread, or cracker crumbs, over the top, and brown in the 
oven. Or boil until nearly tender ; remove the skin and 
bake two hours ; baste often with vinegar. Cover with 
crumbs, return to the oven, and brown. Or omit the 
crumbs and cover with a paste made with one teaspoonful 
of brown flour and half a cup of brown sugar, moistened 
with a little port wine. Spread this over the ham, and 
brown in the oven. Serve with a brown sauce flavored 
with half a glass of champagne. Trim the knuckle with a 
paper ruffle. In carving, cut in very thin slices. Old 
hams are improved by adding a pint of vinegar and a table- 
spoonful of herbs to the water in which they are boiled. 
If the ham is not to be served whole, boil till it is very 
tender ; let it cool, and remove the skin and bones, and 
press it, with the fat well mixed with the lean. 

To serve Cold Boiled Ham, — Cut in thin slices ; season 
highly with cayenne pepper, or with mustard and lemon juice, 
and broil two minutes. 

Melt half a glass of currant jeUy ; add a teaspoonful of 
butter, a little pepper, and when hot add several small thin, 
slices of ham. Let it boil up, and serve at once. 

Cut the nicest part of lean ham in small thin slices. Chop 
the trimmings fine, and heap high in the centre of a platter. 
Garnish with the slices overlapping each other on the edge 
of the dish. 

Fried Ham. — Cut the ham in thin slices, remove the 
outside, gash the fat, and cook in a frying-pan till the fat 
is crisp. If cooked too long, it will become hard and dry. 

Broiled Ham. — (!ut in very thin slices, and broil three 
or four minutes. Old or very salt ham should be parboiled 
five minutes before being broiled. Serve with poached eggs. 



248 The Boston Cook Book. 



Sausages. 

If you like to know what you are eating, have your 
sausage meat prepared at home or by some one whom you 
can trust. Of sweet fresh pork take one third fat and two y 
thirds lean, and chop fine, or have it ground by your 
butcher. Season highly with salt, pepper, and sage 
(use the whole sage^ dry, pound, and sift it). Mix thor- 
oughly. Make cotton bags, one yard long and four 
inches wide. Dip them in strong salt and water, and dry 
before filling. Crowd the meat into the bags closely, 
pressing it with a pestle or potato-masher. Tie the bag 
tightly and keep in a cool place. When wanted for use, 
turn the end of the bag back, and cut off the meat in half- 
inch slices, and cook in a frying-pan till brown. Core 
and quarter several apples, and fry in the hot fat and serve 
with the sausages. 

A safe rule in seasoning sausage meat is one even table* 
spoonful of salt, one teaspoonfid of sifted sage, and a scant 
half-teaspoonful of white pepper to each pound of meat. 

Souse. 

Take the gristly part of the pig's head, but not the fat; 
also the ears and feet. Remove the hard part from the 
feet. Scald or singe the hairs, soak in warm water, and 
scrape thoroughly. Let them remain in salt and water 
for ten hours. Scrape, and clean again, and put them a 
second time in freshly salted water. With proper care 
they will be perfectly clean. Put them in ,a kettle and 
cover with cold water ; skim when it begins to boil ; set 
back and let it simmer till the bones slip out easily. Skim 
out the meat, and remove the hard gristle, bones, and 
anj r superfluous fat. Season with salt, pepper, and vinegar, 
and pack in stone jars. When hard, cut in slices, and 
brown in the oven. 

Head Cheese. — Prepare the same as souse, omitting the 
vinegar, and season with sage. Put into a strainer cloth, 



The Boston Cook Book. 249 



and press out the fat. Pack it in jars or moulds. Serve 
cold, or brown slightly in a frying-pan. 

Though seldom seen on modern tables, these dishes 
when carefully prepared are very acceptable to many who 
have pleasant recollections of them as served at u grand- 
mother's table." 

To Try out Lard. 

Cut the leaves into small pieces ; remove all flesh and 
membrane ; put a few pieces in a kettle on the back of 
the stove, and when they are heated through, put in the 
remainder. Cook slowty until the scraps are crisp ; strain 
through a fine cloth into tin pails or pans, and press that 
obtained from the scraps into a separate pail. Never put 
water with the leaves, as the object is to expel that which 
they already contain, and there is no danger Qf burning 
if only a few pieces be put in at first, and the kettle be 
not over the hot fire. The kettle should not be covered 
until the scraps are crisp ; then cover it, and if no steam 
condenses on the cover, the water is evaporated. 

Baked Pork and Beans. 

Soak one quart of pea beans in cold water over night. 
In the morning put them into fresh cold water, and simmer 
till soft enough to pierce with a pin, being careful not to 
let them boil enough to break. If j'ou like, boil one onion 
with them. When soft, turn them into a colander, and 
pour cold water through them. Place them with the onion 
in a bean-pot. Pour boiling water over one quarter of a 
pound of salt pork, part fat and part lean ; scrape the rind 
till white. Cut the rind in half-inch strips ; bury the pork 
in the beans, leaving only the rind exposed. Mix one 
teaspoonful of salt — more, if the pork is not verj' salt — 
and one teaspoonful of mustard with one quarter of a cup of 
molasses. Fill the cup with hot water, and when well 
mixed pour it over the beans ; add enough more water to 
cover them. Keep them covered with water until the 



250 The Boston Cook Booh 

last hour ; then lift the pork to the surface and let it crisp. 
Bake eight hours in a moderate oven. Use more salt and 
one third of a cup of butter if you dislike pork, or use 
half a pound of fat and lean corned beef. 

The mustard gives the beans a delicious flavor, and 
also renders them more wholesome. Many add a tea- 
spoonful of soda to the water in which the beans are boiled, 
to destroy the acid in the skin of the beans. Yellow-eyed 
beans and Lima beans are also good when baked. 

Much of the excellence of baked beans depends upon the 
bean-pot. It should be earthen, with a narrow mouth and 
bulging sides. This shape is seldom found outside of 
New England, and is said to have been modelled after the 
Assyrian pots. In spite of the slurs against "Boston 
Baked Beans " it is often remarked that strangers enjoy 
them as much as natives ; and many a New England bean- 
pot has been carried to the extreme South and West, that 
people there might have " baked beans" in perfection. 
They afford a nutritious and cheap food for people who 
labor in the open air. 




The Boston Cook Booh 251 



POULTRY AND GAME. 

The flesh of poultry and of game birds has less red 
blood than the flesh of animals ; but as it abounds in phos- 
phates, it is valuable food, particularly for invalids. The 
flesh is drier, and not marbled with fat as in that of quad- 
rupeds. All game has a strong odor and flavor, which is 
by some mistaken for that of tainted meat. It should be 
kept till tender, but no longer, unless frozen. 

White-fleshed game should be cooked till well done ; 
that with dark flesh may be served underdone. The 
breast of all birds is the most juicy and nutritious part. 
"The wing of a walker and the leg of a flier are consid- 
ered choice tidbits." 

To Choose Poultry and Game. — The best chickens have 
soft yellow feet, short thick legs, smooth moist skin, plump 
breast ; and the cartilage on the end of the breast bone 
is soft and pliable. This is sometimes broken in fowls to 
deceive purchasers ; but the difference between a broken 
bone, that slips when moved, and a soft yielding cartilage 
may be very easily detected. Pin feathers alwa} T s indicate 
a young bird ; and long hairs, an older one. The bodies 
of capons are very plump and fat, and larger in proportion 
than those of fowls or chickens. The meat is of finer 
flavor. 

Old fowls have long thin necks and .feet, and sharp 
scales ; the flesh has a purplish tinge, and they usually have 
a large amount of fat. 

The best turkeys have smooth black legs, with soft, 
loose spurs, full breasts, and white plump flesh. 

Geese and ducks should be young, not more than a year 
old, have white soft fat, yellow feet, and tender wings, 
and be thick and hard on the breast. The windpipe 



252 The Boston Cook Book. 



should break when pressed with the thumb and finger. 
Wild ducks have reddish feet. Tame ducks have thick 
yellowish feet. 

Young pigeons have light red flesh on the breast, and 
full flesh-colored legs. Old pigeons are thin, and the breast 
very dark. Wild pigeons are cheaper, but are dry and tough. 
Stall-fed pigeons are the best. Squabs are young tame 
pigeons, and always have pin feathers. 

Grouse, partridge, and quail should have full heavy 
breasts, dark bills, and yellowish legs. 

Young rabbits should have smooth, sharp claws, tender 
ears and paws, and short necks. 

Venison should be dark red, with some white fat. 

To Clean and Thiiss Poultry and Game. — The practice 
of sending poultry to market undressed is one that de- 
mands as earnest opposition from housekeepers as that of 
the adulteration of food. The meat is rendered unfit to 
eat, is sometimes infected with poison ; and the increase in 
weight makes poultry a very expensive food. All poultry 
should be dressed as soon as killed. The feathers come 
out more easily when the fowl is warm, and when stripped 
off toward the head. If the skin be very tender, pull the 
feathers out the opposite way. Use a knife to remove the 
pin feathers. Singe the hairs and down by holding the 
fowl over a gas jet, or over a roll of lighted paper held 
over the fire. Cut off the head, and if the fowl is to be 
roasted, slip the skin back from the neck and cut the neck 
off close to the bod}', leaving skin enough to fold over on 
the back. Remove the windpipe ; pull the crop away 
from the skin on the neck and breast, and cut off close to 
the opening into the bod}\ Be careful not to tear the skin. 
Always pull the crop out from the end of the neck, rather 
than through a cut in the skin, which if made has to be 
sewed together. Cut through the skin about two inches 
below the leg joint ; bend the leg at the cut by pressing it 
on the edge of the table, and break off the bone. Then 
pull, not cut, out the tendons. If care be taken to cut 
only through the skin, these cords may be pulled out easily, 



The Boston Cook Book. 253 

one at a time, with the fingers. Or take them all out at 
once, by putting the foot of the fowl against the casing of 
a door, then shut the door tightly and pull on the leg. 
The tendons will come out with the foot ; but if once cut 
they cannot be removed. The drumstick of a roast chicken 
or turkey is greatly improved by removing the tendons, 
which always become hard and bony in baking. There is 
a special advantage in cutting the leg below the joint, as 
the ends of the bones afford more length for tying, and 
after roasting this is easily broken off, leaving a clean, un- 
burned joint for the table. Cut out the oil bag in the tail. 
It is better to dress a fowl for a fricassee first. Then j t ou 
learn the position of the internal organs, and can tell bet- 
ter how to remove them when dressing for roasting, as 
with the whole fowl you work by feeling and not by sight. 

To Cut up a Fowl for a Fricassee. — Cut througli the 
loose skin between the legs and bod3 T , bend the leg over, 
and cut off at the joint ; then cut off the wings. Make an 
incision in the skin near the vent, and cut the membrane 
ljing between the breastbone and the tail, down to the 
backbone, on each side. Then you have the intestines, 
gizzard, liver, and heart exposed, and can easily remove 
them. Do not forget the kidneys, lying in the hollow of 
the backbone, and the lungs in the ribs. Cut the ribs 
through the cartilage, separate the collar bone, and break 
the backbone just below the ribs. Divide at the joints 
in the wings and legs ; separate the side bones from the 
back, and remove the bone from the breast. Never chop 
the bones, but divide smoothly at the joints. 

To Dress a Fowl for Roasting. — Make an incision near 
the vent ; insert two fingers, loosen the fat from the skin, 
and separate the membranes lying close to the body. 
Keep the fingers up close to the breastbone, until you can 
reach in beyond the liver and heart, and loosen on either 
side down toward the back. The gall bladder lies under 
the lobe of the liver on the left side, and if the fingers be 
kept up, and everything loosened before drawing out, 
there will be no danger of its breaking. The kidneys and 



254 The Boston Cook Booh 



lungs are often left in by careless cooks ; but everything 
that can be taken out must be removed. When the fowl 
has been cleaned carefully, it will not require much wash- 
ing. Hold it under the faucet, or rinse out the inside 
quickty ; then wipe drj r . 

If the breastbone protrude more than is desirable, put a 
small knife in at the opening, and cpt through the cartilage 
in the ribs or through the breastbone. Or put a pestle 
in the inside, lay a towel over the breast, and pound slightly 
until the bone gives way. 

To Stuff a Fowl. — Place the fowl in a bowl, and put 
the stuffing in at the neck ; fill out the breast until plump 
and even. Then draw the neck skin together at the end, 
and sew it over on the back. Put the remainder of the 
stuffing into the body at the other opening, and if full, sew 
it with coarse thread or fine twine. If not full, sewing is 
unnecessary, except when the fowl is to be boiled. 

To Truss a Fowl. — Draw the thighs up close to the body, 
and cross the legs over the tail, and tie firmly with twine- 
Put a long skewer through the thigh into the bod}* and out 
through the opposite thigh, and another through the wings, 
drawing them close to the body. Wind a string from 
the tail to the skewer in the thigh, then up to the one in the 
wing, across the back to the other wing, then down to the 
opposite thigh, and tie firmly round the tail. If you have 
no skewers, the strings must be passed round the body, 
over the thighs and wings ; and care must be taken, in 
removing them, not to tear the browned crust on the breast. 
Sometimes the feet are cut off in the joint, and the legs 
passed into the body and out through an opening under 
the sidebone near the tail, or left in the body and covered 
with the skin. 

To Clean the Giblets. — Slip off the thin membrane round 
the heart, cut out the veins and arteries, remove the liver, 
and cut off all that looks green near the gall bladder. 
Trim the fat and membranes from the gizzard, cut through 
the thick part ; open it, and remove the inner lining with- 
out breaking. Cut off all the white gristle, and use only 



The Boston Cook Booh 255 

- £ 

the thick fleshy part. Wash, and put them in cold water, \ 
and simmer till tender. The neck and tips of the wings 
are often cooked with the giblets. 

These directions apply to all kinds of poultry and game. 

Wild ducks, coot, and geese should be washed thor- 
oughly on the outside before being drawn. Scrub them 
with slightly warm water and soap. The skin is very thick 
and oity, and it is impossible to get it clean without 
soap. 

The strong smell in old fowls may be removed by wash- 
ing in warm soda water. 

To dress Fowls or Birds for Broiling. — Singe, wipe, and 
split down the middle of the back ; lay open, and then 
remove the contents from the inside. Cut the tendons in 
the thigh, or break the joints, and remove the breastbone 
to facilitate the carving. 

To Carve Poultry. — Place the fowl on the platter, with 
the head at the left. Put the fork in across the breast- 
bone. Cut through the skin round the leg joint. Bend 
the leg over and cut off at the joint. Then cut off the 
wings, and divide wings and legs at the joints. Carve the 
breast in thin slices parallel with the breastbone. Some 
prefer to cut it at right angles with the bone. Take off 
the wish-bone -, separate the collar-bone from the breast ; 
slip the knife under the shoulder blade, and turn it over. 
Cut through the cartilage which divides the ribs, separat- 
ing the breast from the back. Then turn the back over, 
place the, knife midway, and with the fork lift up the tail 
end, separating the back from the bod}'. Place the fork 
in the middle of the backbone, and cut close to the back- 
bone, from one end to the other, freeing the side bone. 
As soon as the legs and wings are disjointed,* begin to 
serve, offering white or dark meat and stuffing as each 
prefers. Do not remove the fork from the breastbone till 
the breast is separated from the back. Use an extra fork 
in serving. If all the fowl be not required, carve only 
from one side, leaving the opposite side whole for another 
meal. 



256 The Boston Cook Book. 

Gravy for Roast Poultry and Game. — Put the giblets, or 
neck, liver, gizzard, and heart, on to boil in one quart of 
water, and boil till tender, and the water reduced to one 
pint. Mash the liver, and if desired chop the gizzard, 
heart, and meat from the neck. Pour off the clear fat 
from the dripping-pan, and put the settlings into a sauce- 
pan ; rinse out the pan with the water in which the giblets 
were boiled, and pour this water into the saucepan and 
put on to boil. Put three or four tablespoonfuls of the fat 
into a small frying-pan ; add enough dry flour to absorb 
all the fat, and when brown add the giblet liquor gradu- 
ally, and stir till it thickens. Season with salt and pep- 
per. If not smooth, strain it ; pour half of it into the 
gravy boat, and add the chopped giblets to the remaining 
half, and serve separately, as all may not care for the 
giblet gravy. 

Boast Turkey. 

Clean as directed on page 252. Stuff with soft bread or 
cracker crumbs highly seasoned with sage, thyme, salt, 
and pepper ; moisten the stuffing with half a cup of melted 
butter, and hot water enough to make it quite moist. Add 
one beaten egg. Some use salt pork chopped fine, but 
stuffing is more wholesome without it. Oysters, chestnuts, 
chopped celery, stoned raisins, or dates make a pleasing 
variety. 

For Stuffing and Trussing, see page 254. Put the turkey 
on a rack'in a pan, rub well with butter, and dredge with 
salt, pepper, and flour. Put in a hot oven, and when the 
flour is browned reduce the heat, and add a pint of water. 
Baste with butter until nicely browned ; then with the fat 
in the pan. Baste often, and dredge with salt and flour 
after every basting. Allow three hours for an eight-pound 
turkey. Cook till the legs will separate from the body. 
Prepare the gravy as directed above. Garnish the tur- 
key with parsley or celery leaves and sausages or force-meat 
balls. Serve cranberry sauce or currant jetty with roast 
turkey. 



The^Boston Cook Book. 257 



If the giblets be not desired in the gravy, they may be 
boiled, chopped fine, and mixed with the stuffing; or 
make them into force-meat balls, with an equal amount of 
soft bread crumbs. Moisten, and season highly, and brown 
them in hot butter. 

Boiled or Steamed Turkey or Fowl. 

Clean ; rub well with salt, pepper, and lemon juice, and 
stuff with oyster or bread stuffing. It is better without the 
stuffing, as the oysters are usually over-done, and the 
same flavor may be obtained from an oyster sauce served 
with the turkey. Truss the legs and wings close to the 
body ; pin the fowl in a cloth to keep it whiter and preserve 
the shape. Put into boiling salted water. Allow twenty 
minutes to the pound. Cook slowly till tender, but not 
long enough for it to fall apart. Turkeys are much nicer 
steamed than boiled. Serve with oyster, celery, lemon, 
or caper sauce. Garnish with a border of boiled rice or 
macaroni, and pour part of the sauce over the fowl. 

Fowls are sometimes stuffed with boiled celery, cut into 
pieces an inch long; or with macaroni which has been 
boiled and seasoned with salt and pepper. 

Boast Chicken. 

Singe ; remove the pin feathers, oil bag, crop, entrails, 
legs, and tendons. Wipe, stuff, sew, and tie or skewer 
into shape. Place it on one side, on a rack in a dripping- 
pan, without water. Dredge, and rub all over with salt, 
pepper, soft butter, and flour. Put chicken fat or beef drip- 
pings over it and in the pan. Roast in a hot oven, with 
a rack under the pan. When the flour is brown, check 
the heat, baste with the fat, and afterwards with one third 
of a cup of butter, melted in one cup of hot water. When 
brown, turn the other side up ; then place it on the back, 
that the breast may be browned. Baste often, and dredge 
with flour after basting. Add more water if needed. 
Bake a four-pound chicken an hour and a half, or till the 

17 



L 



258 The Boston Cook BooJc. 



joints separate easily. Lay buttered paper over it, if it 
brown too fast. 

Stuffing. — Moisten one cup of cracker or soft bread crumbs 
with one third of a cup of melted butter ; season highly 
with salt, pepper, and thyme. 

Chestnut Stuffing. — Shell one quart of large chestnuts. 
Pour on boiling water, and remove the inner brown skin. 
Boil in salted water or stock till soft. Mash fine. Take 
half for the stuffing, and mix with it one cup of fine cracker 
crumbs; season with one teaspoonful of salt, one saUspoon- 
ful of pepper, and one teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 
Moisten with one third of a cup of melted butter. Profes- 
sional cooks sometimes mix a little apple sauce, flavored 
with wine, lemon, and sugar, with a chestnut stuffing. 

Chestnut Sauce. — Remove the fat from the dripping- 
pan ; add nearly a pint of hot water ; thicken with flour 
which has been cooked in brown butter ; add salt and pepper, 
and the remainder of the chestnuts. 

Braised Fowl. 

Prepare the same as for roasting; dredge with soft, - 
pepper, and flour, and brown slightly in hot butter or 
chicken fat in a frying-pan. Put in a deep pan ; half 
cover with water. Add the giblets, one onion, and one table- 
spoonful of herbs tied in a bag. Cover with a tightly fitting 
pan, and bake till tender, basting often. Chop the gib- 
lets, thicken, season, and strain the gravy ; add the giblets, 
and pour around the fowl. 

Chicken Fricassee. 

Singe, and cut the chicken at the joints, in pieces for 
serving Cover with boiling water ; add one heaping teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and half a saltspoonful of pepper. Simmer one 
hour, or till tender, reducing the water to nearly a pint 
Remove all the large bones, dredge with salt, pepper, and 
flour, and brown in hot hitter. Put the chicken on toast 
on a hot platter. Strain the liquor and remove the fat. 



«... 



The Boston Cook Book. 259 

Add to the liquor one cup of cream or milk, and heat it 
again. Melt one large tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan ; 
add two tablespoonfuh of flour, and when well mixed pour 
on slowly the cream and chicken liquor. Add salt, pepper, 
half a teaspoonful of celery salt, one teaspoonful of lemon juice. 
Beat one egg ; pour the sauce slowly on the egg ; stir well, 
and pour over the chicken. The chicken may be browned 
before cooking, then stewed, and a brown gravj* made by 
browning the butter before adding the flour. Half a can 
of mushrooms may be added to improve the flavor, letting 
them simmer in the sauce five minutes. Arrange the body 
of the chicken in the centre of the dish, with the wings at 
the top, the thighs below, and the ends of the drumsticks 
crossed at the tail. 

If the chicken be not fried, it is simplj 7 a chicken stew; 
and dumplings may be added, or not, as you prefer. And 
if put into a deep dish with a rich gravy, made as for 
fricassee, but without the egg, and covered with a rich 
crust of pastry and baked, it is chicken pie. 

Chicken Curry. 

Cut the chicken at the joints, and remove the breast 
bones. Wipe, season with salt and pepper, dredge with 
flour, and brown lightly fh hot butter. Put in a stewpan. 
Fry one large onion, cut in thin slices, in the butter left in 
the pan till colored, but not browned. Mix one large 
tablespoonful of flour, one teaspoonful of sugar, and one 
tablespoonful of curry powder, and brown them in the but- 
ter. Add slowly one cup of water or stock and one cup of 
strained tomatoes, or one sour apple chopped, and salt and 
pepper to taste. Pour this sauce over the chicken, and 
simmer one hour, or till tender. Add one cup of hot milk 
or cream. Boil one minute longer, and serve with a bor- 
der of boiled rice. 

Rabbit, veal, and lamb may be curried in the same 
way. 



1 



260 The Boston Cook Book. 



Broiled Chicken. 

Singe, and split a young spring chicken down the back. 
Break the joints ; remove the breastbone, clean, and wipe 
with a wet cloth. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and rub 
well with soft butter. Place in a double gridiron, and broil 
twenty minutes over a clear fire. Spread with butter, and 
serve very hot. Or cover with fine bread crumbs and bake 
in a hot oven half an hour. Serve with Tartar sauce. 

To Carve. — Separate the legs and wings, and then sep- 
arate the breast from the lower part. 

Fried Chicken. 

Singe ; cut at the joints ; remove the breast bones. 
Wipe each piece with a clean wet cloth ; dredge with salt, 
pepper, and flour, and saute them in hot salt pork fat till 
brown and tender, but not burned. Arrange on a dish, 
with boiled cauliflower or potato balls, and pour a white 
sauce over them. Or dip in egg and crumbs, and fry in 
deep hot fat, and serve with tomato sauce. 

Broiled Fillets of Chicken. 

Remove the bone from the breast and thighs. Rub the 
meat with butter or olive oil; season, and cover with fine 
cracker dust. Broil about ten minutes. 



Devilled Chicken. 

Boil a chicken until tender in boiling salted water. 
When cold, cut at the joints, baste with soft butter, and 
broil till brown. Or cut any cold boiled or roasted chicken 
at the joints, rob with salt and butter, and broil till warmed 
through. Pour hot Tartar sauce over them. Or make 
several incisions in the flesh, and rub with mustard and 
cayenne pepper before broiling. 



The Boston Cook Book. 261 



Boast Goose. 

Singe, remove the pin feathers, and before it is cut or 
drawn, wash and scrub thoroughly in warm soapsuds, to 
open and cleanse the pores, and render the oil more easy 
to be extracted. Then draw, as directed on page 253. 
Wash and rinse the inside in clear water, and wipe dry. 
Stuff with mashed potatoes highly seasoned with onion, 
sage, salt, and pepper, or with equal parts of bread crumbs, 
chopped apples, and boiled onions, seasoned with salt, sage, 
and pepper. Sew and truss ; put on a rack in a pan, and 
cover the breast with slices of fat salt pork. Place in the 
oven for three quarters of an hour. The pork fat is 
quickly drawn out by the heat, flows over the goose, and 
aids in drawing out the oil. When considerable oil is 
extracted, take the pan from the oven, and pour off all the 
oil. Remove the pork, and dredge the goose with flour, 
and place again in the oven. When the flour is browned, 
add a little hot water, and baste often. Dredge with flour 
after basting. Cook until brown and tender. Make a 
gravy as on page 256. Garnish with watercresses. Serve 
with apple sauce. 

Boast Ducks. 

Pick, singe, and remove the crop, entrails, oil bag, legs, 
and pinions. Wipe, trass, dredge with salt, pepper, butter, 
and flour. Bake in a hot oven twenty minutes if liked 
rare, or thirty minutes if preferred well done. Serve with 
olive sauce and green peas. Geese and ducks have a strong 
flavor, and are improved by stuffing the craw and body 
with apples cored and quartered. The apples absorb the 
strong flavor, therefore should not be eaten. Celery and 
onions are also placed inside the duck, to improve its 
flavor. 

Braised Ducks. 

Ducks that are tough and unfit to roast are improved 
by being braised with onions, carrots, and turnips. Or 
they may be stewed, and served with canned peas. 



262 The Boston Cook Book. 



Larded Grouse. 

Clean, wipe, lard the breast and legs, and truss. Rub 
with salt and soft butter, and dredge with flour. Boast 
twenty minutes in a quick oven if liked rare, thirty minutes 
if well done. Serve with bread sauce. 



Potted Pigeons. 

Draw and clean. Break the legs just above the feet ; 
leave enough below the joint to tie down to the tail. 
Wash and wipe. If old and tough, cover them with vine- 
gar, spiced and flavored with onion, and let them stand 
several hours. This makes them tender. Drain and wipe ; 
8 tuff, if you like, with cracker crumbs highly seasoned and 
moistened with butter. Dredge with salt, pepper, and flour. 
Fry several slices of soli pork ; cut one large onion fine, 
and fry in the salt pork fat. Put the crisp fat in the stew- 
pan, add the fried onion, then brown the pigeons all over 
in the fat left in the pan. Put them in the stewpan ; add 
boiling water or stock enough to half cover them ; add a 
pinch of herbs tied in a bag. Simmer from one to three 
hours, or till the pigeons are tender. Remove the fat 
from the broth, season to taste, and thicken with flour 
and butter cooked together. Strain over the pigeons, and 

serve hot. 

» 

Braised Pigeons. 

Prepare the pigeons as for potted pigeons, and cook in a 
braising-pan. Cook spinach (see page 296) ; chop it fine, 
and season. Spread the spinach on slices of toast, and 
lay the pigeons on the spinach one on each slice. Serve 
the gravy in a boat. 

Pigeons Stuffed with Parsley. (Miss Ward.) 

Allow one pint of loose parsley for each pigeon. Wash, 
remove the large stems, and chop very fine, adding salt 



The Boston Cook Book. 263 

and pepper and two or three tablespoonfuls of water while 
chopping. Stuff the pigeons with the parsley ; add also 
the hsart and a half -inch cube of salt pork for each pigeon. 
Add the water left in the tray to that in the stewpan, 
and cook as in the preceding rule. 

Roast Birds. 

Draw, and wash quickly ; season with salt and pepper. 
Pin a thin slice of salt pork on the breast. Put on a shal- 
low pan, and bake in a hot oven, fifteen or twenty minutes. 
Baste often. Serve on toast with currant jelly or with 
bread sauce. Small birds may be baked in sweet potatoes, 
or if large cut in halves, using the breast only. Cut the 
potatoes in halves lengthwise, make a cavity in each 
half, season the bird with salt, pepper, and butter; fit 
it into the potato, put the other half over it, and bake 
till the potatoes are soft. Remove the string, tie with a 
bright ribbon, and serve in tha potatoes, garnished with 
parsley. An inviting dish to serve to an invalid. 

Small birds are also broiled or stewed. 

Quail. 

Quail may be roasted, broiled, or braised ; or the breasts 
only may be removed and broiled. Use the bones and 
trimmings to make stock for a rich sauce. 

Woodcock. 

Dress, and wipe clean. Dredge inside and out with salt 
and pepper; tie the legs close to the bodj T , skin the head 
and neck, and tie the beak under the wings. Tie a piece 
of bacon over the breast, and fry in boiling lard two 
minutes; or roast in the oven, and serve on toast. 

Venison. 

Venison is one of the most easily digested meats. It 
may be cooked after the same rules as mutton or beef. It 



264 The Boston Cook Book. 

should be cooked rare, and served very hot with currant 
jetty. The saddle, or loin, is the choicest cut for roasting 
or for steaks. Steaks are also cut from the leg. 

Venison steaks should be broiled the same as beefsteaks, 
and served with Maitre d'NSul butter, made with currant 
jelly instead of lemon juice. The cheaper, tougher parts 
of venison may be stewed or braised. Venison should be 
wiped carefully before cooking, as the hairs are often found 
clinging to the meat. 

Rabbits. 
These may be cooked the same as chickens, — stewed, 
fricasseed, or larded and baked. 



Fia. (SS. Birds and Spinach an Tout- 



The Boston Cook Book. 265 



ENTREES AND MEAT R^OHAUFF^. 



Boned Turkey or Chicken. 

Bone the turkey as directed on page 27. 

Stuffing for a Hen Turkey weighing Eight Pounds. — The 
meat from a four-pound chicken, one pound of raw, lean 
veal, one cup of cracker crumbs, two eggs, boiling stock enough 
to moisten, salt, pepper, and thyme to taste, and one cup of 
potted ham or tongue. 

Disjoint the chicken ; remove the skin, tough sinews, 
and bones. Cut the meat from the thighs and breast in 




Fw. 34. Boned Turkey, browned and served like a Roast Turkey. 

long thin strips, lay it aside, and chop all the remainder 
with the veal. Do not use any salt pork unless you wish 
the stuffing to taste like sausage meat. Add the cracker 
crumbs ; make it quite moist with hot stock, and season 
to taste. Fill the legs and wings of the turkey with the force- 
meat. Put the fillets, which came out in boning, on the 
skin below the breast; then a la}*er of force-meat with 
a little of the tongue here and there ; or j t ou may use thin 
slices of boiled tongue or ham. Then a layer of the re- 
served meat from the chicken, and force-meat again. Sew 
and tie into the natural shape. Or, if for a galantine, turn 
the legs and wings inside before stuffing, and roll up.- Sew 
tightly in a cloth. Put the bones of chicken and turkey 



1 



266 The Boston Cook Book. 

and all the trimmings from the veal in a kettle, and cover 
with cold water. Steam the turkey over the bones three 
hours. Remove the cloth, dredge with salt and flour, and 
bake one hour or until nicely browned. Serve cold, and 
garnish with parsley, sparkling jetty, carrots, and beets cut 
into fancy shapes, or with potato balls. Carve in slices 
across the breast. 

When the turkey is to be moulded in jelly, strain the 
liquor in which the bones were boiled ; remove the fat, 
clear, and stiffen with gelatine as directed below. Make a 
brown aspic jelly with soup stock. Mould in the dark 
jelly and garnish with the light, or vice versa. 

Stuffing for Boned Chicken. — Use more veal, omit the 
chicken, and vary the amount of the other ingredients 



Fin. 8S. Boned CUuksii, larded and baked, 

given in stuffing for turkey, according to the size of the 
fowl. Lardoons of pork may be inserted all over the top 
when the chicken is to be browned in the oven. 

To Mould in Aspic Jelly. — Take enough stock to fill the 
mould, — beef it for dark jelly, and veal or chicken, if for 
light. Season highly with salt, pepper, celery seed, kerbs, 
lemon, or wk If a darker shade be desired, add a little 
caramel. For three pints of stock mix the whiles and shells 
of two eggs with the cold stock ; add one box of Oar's gela- 
tine which has been soaked in one cup of cold water. Put 
all over the fire, and stir till hot. Boil till a thick scum 
has formed ; remove that, aud strain the liquor through a 
tine napkin. 

Pack a mould in a pan of snow or broken ice, and pour 
in jelly to the depth of half an inch. When hard, garnish 



The Boston Cook Book. 267 

with fancy vegetable* of different colors, slices of hard-boiled 
eggs, Italian paste, rings of macaroni, etc. Fasten each 
ornament in place with liquid jelly, and when bard add 
enough jelly to cover all. When this is hard, place the 
meat, or whatever you have to mould, in the centre, being 
careful not to let it 
break the jelly. Keep 
the meat in place with 
some of the liquid jel- 
ly, and when hard add 
enough jelly to fill the 

mould. If to be dec- Fia3 ^ CMctan ta Jelly 

orated on the side, dip 

the ornaments in the liquid jelly, and if the mould be icy 
cold, they will adhere. The jelly must be added slowly. 
Keep in the mould in a cool place till ready to serve. 
To remove it, dip the mould quickly in warm (not hot) 
water, put the dish over it, and invert dish and mould 
together. Garnish with parsley and sparkling jelly. 

Tongue, boned turkey or chicken, birds, moulds of different 
kinds of meat an&fish, etc., may be served in jelly. 

Pressed Chicken. 

An Easy Way of Preparing Boneless Chicken. — Boil a 
fowl iu as little water as possible till the bones slip out 
and the gristly portions are soft. Remove the skin, pick 
the meat apart, and mix -the dark and white meats. Re- 
move the fat, and season the liquor highly witli salt and 
pepper; also with celery salt and lemon juice, if you like. 
Boil down to one cupful, and mix with the meat. Butter 
a mould, and decorate the bottom and sides with slices of 
hard-boikd eggs ; also with thin slices of tongue or ham cut 
into round or fancy shapes. Pack the meat in, and set 
away to cool with a weight on the meat. "When ready to 
serve, dip the mould in warm water, and turn out carefully. 
Garnish with parsley, strips of lettuce or celery leaves, and 
radishes or beets. 



268 The Boston Cook Book. 



Blanquette of Chicken. 

Make one cup of cream sauce, put it in a doable boiler, 
and add one pint of cooked chicken cut in strips, and one 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley. When hot, beat the yolks 
of two eggs; add two tablespoonfuls of milk, and stir into 
the chicken. Cook two minutes. Serve in rice or potato 
border, or with a garnish of toast points. 

Chicken Pilau. 

Warm one pint of canned chicken, or cold roast or boiled 
chicken, in one pint of water till the meat is very tender. 
Skim out the meat, and add to the liquor one pint of strained 
tomatoes. Season highly with salt, pepper, fine chopped 
onion, and curry or Chutney sauce. When boiling, add 
one cup of well-washed rice, and cook twenty minutes, or 
till the rice is soft. Add the pieces of chicken and half a 
cup of butter or cream. When hot, turn out on a platter, 
and garnish with triangles of toast. 

Scalloped Chicken. 

Take equal parts of cold chicken, boiled rice or macaroni, 
and tomato sauce. Put in layers in a shallow dish, and 
cover with buttered crumbs. Bake till brown. Cold roast 
turkey, using stuffing and gravy, may be prepared in the 
same way. 

Chicken Pie for Thanksgiving. (Miss A. M. Toume.) 

Two chickens, three pints of cream, one pound of butter y 
flour enough to make a stiff crust. Cut the chicken at 
the joints, and cook in boiling salted water till tender. 

Crust. — Three pints of cream, one heaping teaspoonful of 
salt, and flour to mix it hard enough to roll out easily. 

Line a deep earthen dish having flaring sides with a 
thin layer of paste. Roll the remainder of the paste half 
«in inch thick. Cut three quarters of a pound of butter into 



The Boston Cook Book. 269 



small pieces, and put them on the dough quite close to- 
gether. Sprinkle a little flour, over the butter, and roll 
the paste over and over. Roll out again half an inch thick 
and roll up. Cut off from the ends of the roll, turn the 
pieces over and roll out half an inch thick for rims. Wet 
the paste in the dish with milk, and lay the rims round 
the sides of the dish. Put on two, three, or four rims, 
showing one above another, the inside rim the highest. 
Wet each rim to make it adhere. Fill the centre with the 
parboiled chicken. Take out some of the larger bones. 
Season the chicken liquor with salt and pepper, and pour 
it over the chicken ; use enough to nearly cover. Cut the 
remaining quarter of butter into pieces the size of a chest- 
nut, and put them o\»er the meat. Roll the remainder of 
the crust to fit the top. Make a curving cut in the crust 
and turn it back, that the steam may escape. Bake three 
hours in a brick oven. If baked in a stove oven, put on 
only two rims of crust and bake two hours. 

Chicken Terrapin. (Miss Minot.) 

Chop one cold roast chicken and one parboiled sweet- 
bread moderately fine. Make one cup of rich cream sauce, 
with one cup of hot cream, a quarter of a cup of butter, and 
two tablespoonfids of flour. Then put in the chicken and 
sweetbread. Salt and pepper to taste. Let it heat over 
hot water fifteen minutes. Just before serving add the 
yolks of two eggs, well beaten, and one wineglass of sherry 

wine. 

Calfs liver, parboiled till tender, and cut fine, may be 
prepared in the same way, and used alone or with cold 
chicken or veal. 

Chicken Chartreuse. 

Chop very fine nine ounces, or a heaping cup, of cold 
cooked chicken ; add the inside of two sausages, or two ounces 
of lean, cooked ham, chopped fine, three tablespoonfuls of 
powdered bread crumbs, one tablespoonfid of capers, or one 



270 The Boston Cook Book. 

iablespoonful of chopped parsley ', fwo tablespoonfuls of lemon 
/ut'ctf or vinegar, a speck of cayenne , two eggs, well beaten, 
and enough Ao* soup sfoc& to make it quite moist. Add 
salt and pepper to taste, the amount depending upon the 
seasoning in the sausages. The sausages may be omitted, 
and a larger amount of chicken used. Butter a small 
mould, and pack the meat in closely to within an inch ot 
the top to allow for swelling. Put it on a trivet in a kettle, 
and steam three hours. If no uncooked meat be used, 
one hour will be sufficient. Cool it in the mould ; when 
ready to serve, dip the mould quickly into warm water 
and loosen the meat around the edges with a thin knife 
and remove the mould. It may be served plain or 
moulded in jelly (see page 266). 

Salmis of Game. 

Cut the meat from cold roasted game into small pieces. 
Break up the bones and remnants, cover them with stock or 
with cold looter, and add a pinch 'of herbs, two cloves, and 
two peppercorns. Boil down to a cupful for a pint of meat. 
Fry two small onions, cut fine, in two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter till brown ; add two tablespoonfuls of flour, and stir till 
dark brown. Strain the liquor in which the bones were 
boiled, and add it gradually to the butter and flour. Add 
more salt if needed, one tablespoonful of lemon juice, two 
tablespoonfuls of Worcestershire sauce, and the pieces of 
meat. Simmer fifteen minutes ; add six or eight mush- 
rooms, Mid a glass of claret, if you like, or the juice of a sour 
orange. Serve very hot on slices of fried bread, and gar- 
nish with fried bread and parsley. Or serve canned peas 
in the centre, with the meat on toast around the edge. 

Beef Olives, or Beef Rolls. 1 

Cut thin slices from cold roast beef, two and a half by 
four inches. Chop the trimmings and fat, allowing one 

1 Olives is not an appropriate name, although in common use. 



The Boston Cook Book. 271 

tablespoonful of the chopped mixture for each slice. Sea- 
son highly with salt, pepper, and herbs, and mix with one 
fourth as much cracker crumbs as meat. Spread this on 
each slice, nearly to the edge. Roll and tie. Dredge 
with salt, pepper, and flour, and fry brown in drippings or 
salt pork fat ; put in a stewpan, and make a brown gravy 
h\ adding two tablespoonfuls of flour to the fat left in the 
pan, and when brown pour on one pint of hot water. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper ; pour over the rolls and simmer till 
they are tender. Remove the strings, place the rolls on a 
platter, season the gravy and pour it over them. 

Rolls may be made in the same way by using raw lean 
meat from the round, cut in small thin slices ; pound it to 
break the fibre, and trim into shape. Rolls may be made 
of veal or thin slices of liver (parboil and remove the skin 
before using the liver) . If there be any of the chopped 
mixture left, make it into round or oval balls, roll in 
crumbs, then in egg, and again in crumbs ; and brown in 
the oven or fry mfat. 

Beef Roulette. — Take a large thin slice of meat from 
the round, or an}' tough part ; pound it enough to break 
the fibre, and trim into rectangular shape. Season and 
spread with a stuffing ; roll, tie, and cook as directed for 
Beef Rolls. Serve hot with a gravy ; or cold, cut into thin 
slices. 

Fricadilloes, or Meat Balls, Sausages, or Rolls. 

Chop the meat fine ; add a slice of onion chopped fine, 
and if the meat be lean, add one or two slices of bacon ; sea- 
son highly with salt, pepper, sage, thyme, lemon juice, and 
parsley ; add one fourth as much bread crumbs or boiled rice 
as you have meat. Moisten with beaten egg and hot 
water or stock if needed ; shape like a ball, egg, or cylinder. 
Brown them in drippings or butter in a frying-pan, or roll 
them in crumbs, egg, and crumbs again, and fry in hot 
deep fat. 



The Boston Cook Book, 



Frizzled Beet 

Half a pound of smoked beef, cut in thin shavings. 
Pour boiling water over it, and let it stand ten minutes. 
Drain and beat it in one tablespoonfal of hot butter, to curl 
or frizzle it Add one cup of hot cream. Or make a cup 
of thin white sauce with one cup of milk, one tablespoonful 
of butter, and one tablespoonful of flour. Pour it over 
one weU-beaten egg, add the beef and a little pepper, and 
serve at once. Or frizzle it, and mix it with two or three 
poached eggs. 

Meat Pie. 

Cut cold cooked meat into small thin slices or into half- 
inch cubes, remove all the gristle and fat except the 
crisped outside fat, put into a baking-dish, and cover 
with the meat gravy or with tomato or brown sauce piquant*. 
Spread a crust of mashed potatoes over the meat, brush 
with beaten egg or sprinkle with cracker crumbs, and cook 
twenty minutes or till brown. 

Meat Porcupine. 

Chop fine some lean cooked veal, chicken, or lamb; add 
one fourth its amount of cracker or bread crumbs, or mashed 
potato, and a small 
quantity of chopped 
bacon ; season highly 
with sail, pepper, cay- 
enne, and lemon juice; 
moisten with beaten 
egg and stock or water 

Fin. 37. Most Porcupine. _ . . _. .. 

enough to shape it. 
Mould it into an oval loaf, and put into a shallow pan well 
greased. Cut strips of fat bacon, one fourth of an inch 
wide and one inch long. Make holes in the loaf with a 
small skewer, insert the strips of bacon, leaving the ends 
out half an inch, and push the meat up firmly round the 



The Boston Cook Book. 273 



bacon. Bake till -brown. The bacon will baste the meat 
sufficiently. 

Ragout of Cooked Meat. 

Cut one pint of cold meat into half-inch dice ; remove the 
fat, bone, and gristle. Put the meat in a stewpan ; cover 
with boiling water, and simnter slowly two or three hours, 
or till very tender ; then add half a can of mushrooms, cut 
line, two tablespoon/ids of Madeira wine, salt and pepper 
1» taste. Wet one tablespoonful of flour to a smooth paste 
with a little cold water; stir it into the boiling liquor; 
add a teaspoonful of caramel, if not brown enough. Cook 
ten minutes, and serve plain or in a border of mashed 
potatoes. The seasoning may be varied by using one tea- 
spoonful of curry powder, a few grains of cayenne pepper, 
or half a tumbler of currant jelly, and salt to taste. 

Hash. 

Equal parts of meat and potatoes, or two of potatoes to 
one of meat. Remove all the bone, gristle, and skin, and 
have only one-fourth part fat meat. Chop very fine, and 
mix well with the potatoes, which should be hot and well 
mashed. Season to taste with pepper and salt. Put in 
enough hot water to cover the bottom of the spider ; add 
one large tablespoonful of butter. When the butter is melted, 
add the hash, and let it simmer till it has absorbed the 
water and formed a brown crust. Do not stir it. Fold 
like an omelet. Use corned meat or roast beef. If the 
potatoes be cold, chop them with the meat. 

Sandwiches. 

Chop very fine some cooked ham or cold corned beef or 
tongue with one- fourth part fat. Mix one teaspoonful of dry 
mustard and one saltspoonful of salt with cold water to a stiff 
paste ; add to it one fourth of a cup of butter creamed. 
Cut stale bread in very thin slices; spread with the mus- 
tard and butter paste, then with the ham. Put two slices 
together, and cut into rectangular pieces. 

18 



274 The Boston Cook Book. 

Scalloped Mutton. 

Remove the fat and skin from cold roast mutton ; cut the 
meat in small thin slices ; season it with salt and pepper. 
Butter a shallow dish, put in a layer of bread or cracker 
crumbs, then a laj'er of meat, then oysters, strained and 
seasoned, tomato or brown gravy, then crumbs, meat, etc., 
having on the top a thick layer of crumbs moistened in 
one third of a cup of melted butter. Cold boiled macaroni, 
cut into inch pieces, may be used in place of oysters. 

Casserole of Bice and Meat. 

Boil one cup of rice till tender. Chop very fine half a 
pound of any cold meat ; season highly with half a teaspoon- 
Jul of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, one scdtspoonful of 
celery salt, one teaspoonful of finely chopped onion, one tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, and one saltspoonful each of 
thyme and marjoram. Add one beaten egg, two tablespoon- 
fuls of fine cracker crumbs, and moisten with hot water 
or stock enough to pack it easily. Butter a small mould, 
line the bottom and sides half an inch deep with the rice, 
pack in the meat, cover closely with rice, and steam 
forty-five minutes. Loosen it around the edge of the 
mould ; turn it out upon a platter, and pour tomato sauce 
over it. 

Casserole of Mock Sweetbreads with Potato Border. 

One pound of uncooked lean veal cut into half-inch cubes, 
and cooked with one slice of onion in boiling salted water 
till tender, then put into cold water to whiten. Make one 
cup of white sauce, and season with one saltspoonful of salt, 
one saltspoonful of celery salt, and half a saltspoonful of 
pepper. Put the veal and half a cup of mushrooms, cut 
into quarters, into the sauce. Heat over hot water 
five minutes, or till the meat and mushrooms are hot 
Remove from the fire ; add quickly one teaspoonful of lemon 
juice and one well-beaten egg ; serve inside a potato border > 
or on toast garnished with toast points. 



The Boston Cook Book. 275 

Potato Border. — One quart of mashed and seasoned 
potatoes shaped into a mound like a wall on the edge of 
a platter. Brush over with beaten white or yolk of an egg, 
and brown slightly. Fill with anj T kind of cooked meat or 
fish warmed in a white or brown sauce. 

Veal Birds. 

Slices of veal from the loin, cut very thin. Wipe, re- 
move the bones, skin, and fat, and pound till one fourth 
of an inch thick. Trim into pieces two and a half by 
four inches. Chop the trimmings fine with one square 
inch of fat salt pork for each bird. Add half as much fine 
cracker crumbs as you have meat ; season highly with salt, 
pepper, thyme, lemon, cayenne, and onion. Moisten with 
one egg and a little hot water. Spread the mixture on each 
slice nearly to the edge, roll up tightlj-, and tie or fasten 
with skewers. Dredge with salt, pepper, and flour ; fry 
them slowly in hot butter till a golden brown, but not dark 
or burned. Then half cover with cream, and simmer 
fifteen or twenty minutes, or till tender. Remove the 
strings, and serve on toast ; pour the cream over them ; gar- 
nish with points of toast and lemon. If the veal be tough, 
dip in olive oil before spreading with the stuffing. 

Melton Veal. 

Take any cold veal, either roasted or boiled ; chop it fine, 
and season with salt, pepper, and lemon juice ; add two or 
three tablespoonfuls of cracker crumbs, and moisten with soup 
stock or hot water. Take one third as much finely chopped 
ham as of veal ; season with mustard and cayenne ; add one 
tablespoonful of cracker crumbs, and moisten with hot stock 
or water. Butter a mould, and line it with slices of hard- 
boiled egg. Put in the two mixtures irregularly, so that 
when cut it will have a mottled appearance ; press in 
closety, and steam three-quarters of an hour. Set away 
to cool ; remove from the mould, and slice before serving. 

This is an excellent dish for lunch or tea, and is a con 



276 The Boston Cook Booh 

venient wa} r of using pieces of veal that would not other- 
wise be utilized. 

Veal Loaf. 

Parboil two pounds of lean veal. Chop fine with one 
fourth of a pound of salt pork or bacon ; add four butter 
crackers, pounded, two eggs, well beaten, two teaspoonfuh 
of salt, one saltspoonful of pepper, and half a saltspoonful of 
nutmeg or mace. Moisten with the meat liquor, mould 
into an oval loaf, and put into a shallow tin pan. Add 
a little of the water in which the meat was boiled. Bake 
till quite brown, basting often. Serve hot or cold, cut in 
slices. Raw veal may be used in the same way, baking 
it two hours or more. 

No. 2. — Select a knuckle of veal, or any bony piece that 
has a large proportion of gelatine. Cut in small pieces, and 
remove any fragments of bone. Cover with cold water, 
boil quickly, skim, and add one onion, one teaspoonful of salt, 
and one saltspoonful of pepper. Let it simmer till the meat 
slips from the bones, the gristly portions are dissolved, 
and the liquor reduced to one cupful. Remove the meat, 
pick out all the bones, strain the liquor, and season highly 
with salt, lemon juice, and pepper, and slightly with sage or 
thyme. Chop or pick the meat apart; add two or three 
tablespoonfuls of powdered cracker and the meat liquor ; mix 
well and put into a bread pan. Put it in a cool place, and 
when hard serve in thin slices. The gelatine in the meat 
liquor will harden, and hold the meat together without 
pressure. 

Meat Souffle*. 

Make one cup of cream, sauce, and season with chopped 
parsley and onion juice. Stir one cup of chopped meat 
(chicken, fresh tongue, veal, or lamb) into the sauce. 
When hot, add the beaten yolks of two eggs; cook one min- 
ute, and set away to cool. When cool, stir in the whites, 
beaten stiff. Bake in a buttered dish about twenty min- 
utes, and serve immediately. If for lunch, serve with a 
mushroom sauce. 



\ 

k 



The Boston Cook Book. 277 

Potting. 

Chop and pound to a paste any fragments of cooked 
ham, tongue, beef, poultry, game, or fish. With ham use a 
quarter part fat. Remove all gristle and skin, and pound 
till free from anj' fibre and reduced to a paste. Season 
highly with salt, pepper, cayenne, and made mustard, and 
moisten with a little melted butter (except ham, which has 
fat enough). Pack closely in small stone or earthen jars.* 
Put the jars in a steamer, and heat for half an hour. Then 
press the meat down again, and cover with hot melted 
butter. This will keep some time, and may be served in 
slices or used for sandwiches. Ham and tongue may be 
mixed with veal or chicken. Beef, game, and fish are 
better alone. 

Potted Liver. 

Braise a calf's or lamb's liver in rich, highly seasoned 
stock. When tender, cut fine and pound to a paste, add- 
ing enough of the strained liquor in which it was cooked to 
moisten it ; add half a cup of butter, melted and strained. 
Rub all through a sieve ; pack in jars and pour melted 
butter over the top. • 

Ragout of Lamb's or Calf s Liver. 

Boil till tender. Cut in thin round slices. Make a rich 
brown sauce ; season with spices and wine. Stew the liver 
in it till hot, and serve at once. Garnish with alternate 
slices of lemon and hard-boiled eggs. 

Croquettes. 

These may be made of any kind of cooked meat, fish, 
oysters, rice, hominy, and many kinds of vegetables, or 
from a mixture of several ingredients. When mixed with 
a thick white sauce (see page 278), which adds very 
much to the delicacy of meat or fish croquettes, less meat 
is required. The sauce is a stiff paste when cold, and 
being mixed with the meat or fish the croquettes' may be 



K 



278 The Boston Cook Book. 

handled and shaped perfectly, and when cooked will be 
soft and creamy inside. 

To Shape a Croquette. — Croquettes may be shaped into 
rolls, or ovals, or like pears, with a bit of parsley or a 
clove in the end to represent the stem. Take a tablespoon- 
ful of the cold mixture^ and shape into a smooth ball. If 
the mixture stick, wet the palms of the hands slightly. 
Give the ball a gentle, rolling pressure between the palms 
till slight^ cylindrical ; then roll it lightlj 7 in the crumbs, 
clasp it gently in the hand, and flatten one end on the 
board. Turn the hand over, and flatten the opposite end. 
Place the croquette on a broad knife, and roll it in beaten 
egg- With a spoon dip the egg over the croquette, drain 
on the knife, and roll again in the crumbs. Fry in deep 
hot fat (see page 15). Drain on paper. 

In rolling any kind of croquettes, if the mixture be too 
soft to be handled easily, stir in enough fine cracker dust 
to stiffen it, but never add any uncooked material liku 
flour, nor the dried bread crumbs used in rolling, as thosv 
will make the croquettes too stiff. 

Thick Cream Sauce (for Croquettes and Patties). 



1 pint hot cream. 

2 even tablespoonf uls butter. 

4 heaping tablespoonf uls flour, or 
2 heaping tablesp. cornstarch. 



% teaspoonful salt. 
££ saltspoonf ul white pepper. 
^ teaspoonful celery salt. 
A few grains of cayenne. 



Scald the cream. Melt the butter in a granite sauce- 
* pan. When bubbling, add the dry cornstarch. Stir till 
well mixed. Add one third of the cream, and stir as it 
L * boils and thickens. Add more cream, and boil again. 

When perfectly smooth, add the remainder of the cream. 
The sauce should be very thick, almost like a drop batter. 
Add the seasoning, and mix it while hot with the meat or 
fish. For croquettes, one beaten egg may be added just as 
the sauce is taken from the fire ; but the croquettes are 
whiter and more creanry without the egg. For patties, 
warm the meat or fish in the sauce, and use the egg or not 
as you please. 



The Boston Cook Book. 279 

Chicken Croquettes. — Half a pound of chicken chopped 
very fine, and seasoned with half a teaspoonful of suit, half 
a teatpoonful of celery salt, a quarter of a saltspoonjul of 
cayenne pepper, one saltipoonful of white pepper, a few 
drops of onion juice, one teatpoonful of chapped parsley, and 
one teaspoonful of lemon juice. Make one pint of very thick 
cream sauce (see page 278). When thick, add one beaten 
egg, and mix the sanre 
with the chicken, us- 
ing only enough to 
make it as soft as can 
be handled. Spread 
on a shallow plate 
to cool. Shape iuto 

rolls. Roll in fine Flo 88. Chicken CroqiietUa 

bread crumbs, theii dip 

in beaten egg, then In crumbs again, and fry one minute In 
smoking hot fat. Drain, and serve with a thin cream 
sauce. Many prefer to cut the chicken into small dice. 
If this be done, use less of the sauce, or the croquettes 
will be difficult to shape. The white meat of cliicken will 
absorb more sauce than the dark. Mushrooms, boiled 
rice, sweetbreads, calf's brains, or veal may be mixed with 
chicken. Cold roast chicken, chopped flue, may be mixed 
with the stuffing, moistened with the gravy, and shaped 
into croquettes. 

Veal Croquettes. — Chop cold veal fine ; season highly 
with salt, pepper, cayenne, onion juice, celery salt, and pars- 
ley. If you like, add half the amount of oysters, parboiled 
and drained. Moisten with beaten egg and white sauce. 
Shape into rolls. Roll in fine bread crumbs, egg, and 
crumbs again, and fry in smoking hot fat. 

Oyster Croquettes. — Parboil and drain one pint of oysters. 
Cut them into quarters, and mix with cream sauce enough to 
hold tiiem together. Season with salt and pepper. Shape, 
roll in crumbs, then in egg, then in crumbs again, and fry. 

Sweetbread Croquettes. — One parboiled sweetbread, half 
a can of mushrooms, chopped fine, and half a cup of warm 



280 The Boston Cook Book. 

boiled rice. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and 
moisten with hot thick cream sauce until soft enough to 
be handled. When cool, shape, roll in crumbs, then in egg, 
and again in crumbs, and fry. Calf s brains may be 
parboiled and mixed with sweetbreads or chicken for 
croquettes. 

Lobster Croquettes, — One pint of lobster meat, cut fine. 
Season with one saltspoonful of salt, one saltspoonful of mus- 
tard, and a little cayenne, and moisten with one cup of 
thick cream sauce. Cool, and shape into rolls. Roll in 
crumbs, egg, and crumbs again, and fry in smoking hot fat. 
Drain on paper. 

Lobster Cutlets. — Prepare the lobster as for croquettes, 
and spread it half an inch thick on a platter. Cut into 
the shape of cutlets. Roll in crumbs, egg, and crumbs again. 
Fry in smoking hot fat. Drain, and serve with a claw to 
represent the bone. 

Salmon, or any fish croquettes or cutlets are made in 
the same way. 

Clam Croquettes. — Steam the clams. Remove the shells, 
thin skin, black end, and the dark substance from the soft 
part. Cut the "leather straps," with the scissors, into 
small bits. Mix these and the soft part with a thick cream 
sauce, season with salt and pepper, and shape into rolls. 
Roll in fine bread crumbs, dip in beaten egg, then roll in 
crumbs again. Fry in smoking hot lard. 

Potato Croquettes. — One pint of hot mashed potatoes, one 
tablespoonful of butter, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, a 
speck of cayenne, half a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoon- 
ful of celery salt, a few drops of onion juice, and the yolk 
of one egg. Mix all but the egg, and beat until very 
light. When slightly cool, add the yolk of the egg, and 
mix well. Rub through a sieve and add one teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley. Shape into smooth round balls, then into 
rolls. Roll in fine bread crumbs, then dip in beaten egg, 
then roll in crumbs again. Fr} r in smoking hot lard one 
minute. Drain and serve in the form of a pyramid. 

Oyster Plant Croquettes. — Scrape, boil, mash, and season 



The Boston Cook Booh 281 



the oyster plant. Shape into rolls. Roll in crumbs, dip in 
egg, and again in crumbs , and fry as usual! 
Prepare parsnips in the same way. 

Turkish Croquettes. — Stew half a can of tomatoes fifteen 
minutes with one slice each of onion, carrot, and turnip, one 
teaspoonful of herbs, one sprig of parsley, two cloves, two pep- 
percorns, one teaspoonful of salt, and one scdtspoonful of pep- 
per. Rub through a strainer. Take one cup of the strained 
tomatoes, one cup of brown soup stock, season highlj', and 
when boiling add one scant cup of uncooked rice. Cook 
till the liquor is absorbed. Add a quarter of a cup of 
butter, and steam it, or cook on the back of the stove until 
the rice is soft. Add one beaten egg and a little cream 
sauce, or thick tomato sauce, using enough to make it quite 
moist. When cool, shape into rolls. Roll in fine bread 
crumbs, then in egg, then in crumbs again, and fry in smoking 
hot fat. Sometimes it is better to parboil the rice for five 
minutes, as it is more difficult to soften it in stock than in 
clear water. 

Sweet Rice Croquettes. — Steam one scant cup of well' 
washed rice in one pint of boiling water, or milk and water, 
thirty minutes, or till very soft. Add, while hot, one tea- 
spoonful of butter, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and the well- 
beaten yolk of one egg, and a little hot milk, if it need more 
moisture. When cool, shape into small ovals, roll in 
crumbs, dip in egg, roll in crumbs again, and fry. Or, after 
shaping, press the thumb into the centre of each, and put 
in two boiled raisins or candied cherries, or half a teaspoonful 
of jelly or marmalade. Close the rice over the centre, roll 
in crumbs, dip in egg, roll in crumbs again, and fry. 

Savory Rice Croquettes. — One pint of cold boiled rice 
warmed in the double boiler with two or three tablespoonfuls 
of milk. When soft, add one egg, well beaten, one table- 
spoonful of butter, half a teaspoonful of salt, one fourth of a 
saltspoonful of white pepper, a few grains of cayenne, and 
one heaping tablespoonful of fine chopped parsley. Shape, 
roll, and fty as usual. 

Rice or Macaroni Croquettes* — One pint of cold boiled 



282 The Boston Cook Booh 

rice or macaroni or spaghetti. Heat, and moisten with a 
little thick white sauce; add the beaten yolk of one egg, two 
tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, and salt and pepper to taste. 
Cool, shape, roll in crumbs, dip in egg, roll in crumbs again, 
and fry. 

Hominy Croquettes. — Warm one pint of cooked hominy in 
one or two tablespoonfuls of hot milk ; add the beaten yolk of 
one egg, and salt to taste. Cool, shape, roll, and fry. 

Crime Frete. — Boil one pint of milk with an inch stick 
of cinnamon. Beat together half a cup of sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls of cornstarch, one tablespoonful of flour, the yott* 
of <Aree e^rs, a quarter of a cmjo of cold milk, and owe salt- 
spoonfid of sa&. Pour the boiling milk on the mixture, and 
stir well. Strain into the double boiler, and cook fifteen 
minutes, stirring often. Add one teaspoonful of butter and 
one teaspoonful of vanilla. Pour into a buttered bread pan 
about one inch deep, and set awaj- to cool. When very 
hard, sprinkle a bread board with fine bread crumbs. Turn 
the cream out on it, and cut into strips two and a half 
inches long and one inch wide, or in squares or diamonds. 
Roll these in crumbs, then dip in beaten egg, then in crumbs, 
and fry brown in boiling lard. Sprinkle sugar over them, 
and serve hot. 

Welsh Rarebit. 



j£ pound rich cream cheese. 
J£ cup cream or milk. 
1 teaspoonful mustard. 
% teaspoonful salt. 



A fev/ grains of cayenne. 

legg. 

1 teaspoonful butter. 

4 slices toast. 



Break the cheese in small pieces, or if hard grate it. 
Put it with the milk in a double boiler. Toast the bread, 
and keep it hot. Mix the mustard, salt, and pepper ; add 
the egg, and beat well. When the cheese is melted, stir 
in the_ egg and butter, and cook two minutes, or until it 
thickens a little, but do not let it curdle Pour it over the 
toast. Many use ale instead of cream. 

Cheese Souffle. — Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in a 
saucepan; add one heaping tablespoonful of flour ; when 



The Boston Cook Booh 283 

smooth, add half a cup of milk, half a teaspoonful of salt, 
and sl few grains of cayenne. Cqok two minutes. Add the 
yolks of three eggs, well beaten, and one cup of grated cheese* 
Set away to cool. When cold, add the whites, beaten to 
a stiff froth. .Turn into a buttered dish and bake twenty- 
five or thirty minutes. Serve immediately. 

Crackers a la Crime,' — Split butter crackers, and spread 
with butter, salt, pepper, mustard, and cheese if you like. 
Put them in a buttered pudding-dish, cover with milk, and 
bake thirty minutes. Omit the mustard, pepper, and cheese, 
prepare in the same way, and it is called Cracker Brewis. 

Sardine Canapees, — Mix the yolks of hard-boiled eggs 
with an equal amount of sardines rubbed to a paste ; season 
with lemon juice, and spread on thin slices of delicate toast 
Put two pieces together, and cut in narrow strips. 

Turkish Pilaf. 

One cup of stewed and strained tomatoes, one cup of 
stock, seasoned highly with salt, pepper, and minced onion. 
When boiling, add one cup of well- washed rice ; stir lightly 
with a fork until the liquor is absorbed, then add half a 
cup of butter. Set on the back of the stove or in a double 
boiler, and steam twenty minutes. Remove the cover, 
stir it lightly, cover with a towel, and let the steam 
escape. Serve as a vegetable, or as a border for curry 
or fricassee. 

iVb. 2. — Prepare as in the preceding receipt. Add 
with the butter one cup of cooked meat (lamb, veal, or 
chicken), cut into half-inch pieces and shredded very fine. 
Serve as an entree. 

Sour Milk Cheese (sometimes called Dutch, Curd, or 

Cottage Cheese). 

1 quart thick sour milk. 1 saltspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful butter. 1 tablespoonful cream. 

Place the milk in a pan on the back of the stove, and 
scald it until the curd has separated from the whey. 



1 



284 The Boston Cook Booh 



Spread a strainer cloth over a bowl, pour in the milk, 
lift the edges of the cloth,.and draw them together ; drain 
or wring quite dry. There will be but half or two third* 
of a cup of curd y but it is worth saving. It is the flesh- 
forming or nutritive part of the milk. Put it in a small 
bowl, with the butter, salt, and cream ; mix it to a smooth 
paste with a spoon. Take a teaspoonful, and roll in the hand 
into a smooth ball. It should be quite moist, or the balls 
will crack If too soft to handle, put it in a cool place for 
an hour, and then it will shape easily. Or it may be 
served without shaping, just broken up lightly with a 
fork. If scalded too long, the curd becomes very hard 
and brittle. It is better when freshly made, and is deli- 
cious with warm gingerbread. An excellent lunch or tea 
dish. Season this cheese with one tablespoonful of finely 
powdered sage, if you like the flavor. 

Forefathers' Dinner. 

Succotash is the great dish in Plymouth at every cele- 
bration of Forefathers' Day, December 22. Tradition 
says it has been made in that town ever since the 
Pilgrims raised their first corn and beans, and it is 
supposed they learned to make it from the Indians. 

Strangers are rather shy of this peculiar mixture ; but 
it is a favorite dish with the natives, and to this day is 
made by some families many times through the winter 
season. Although the dish has never been made by the 
writer, it has been tested by her in that ancient town 
many times, and the excellence of the following receipt 
is unquestionable. It is given in the name of Mrs. 
Barnabas Churchill* of Plymouth, a lady who has made 
it for fifty years after the manner handed down through 
many generations. 

One quart of large white beans (not the pea beans) ; six 
quarts of hulled com, — the smutty white Southern corn ; 
six to eight pounds of corned beef, from the second cut of 
the rattle rand ; one pound of salt pork, fat and lean ; 



The Boston Cook Booh 285 

chicken weighing from four to six pounds ; one large 
white French turnip; eight or ten medium-sized potatoes. 
Wash the beans, and soak over night in cold water. In 
the morning put them on in cold soft water. When boil- 
ing, change the water, and simmer until soft enough to 
mash to a pulp and the water is nearly all absorbed. 
Wash the salt pork and the corned beef, which should 
be corned only three or four days. Put them on about 
eight o'clock, in cold water, in a very large kettle, and 
skim as they begin to boil. Clean, and truss the chicken 
as for boiling, and put it with the meat about an hour and 
a quarter before dinner time. Allow a longer time if a 
fowl be used, and keep plenty of water in the kettle. 
Two hours before dinner time, put the beans, mashed to 
a pulp, and the hulled corn into another kettle, with some 
of the fat from the meat in the bottom to keep them from 
sticking. Take out enough liquor from the meat to cover 
the corn and beans, and let them simmer where they will 
not burn. Stir often, and add more liquor if needed. 
The mixture should be like a thick soup, and the beans 
should absorb all the liquor, yet it must not be too 
dry. 

Pare, and cut the turnip into inch slices ; add it about 
eleven o'clock, and the potatoes (pared) half an hour 
later. Take up the chicken as soon as tender, that it 
may be served whole. Serve the beef and pork together, 
the chicken, turnip, and potatoes each on separate dishes, 
and the beans and corn in a tureen. The meat usually 
salts the mixture sufficiently, and no other seasoning is 
necessary. Save the water left from the meat, to use in 
warming the corn and beans the next day, serving the 
meat cold. This will keep several days in cold weather ; 
and, like many other dishes, it is better the oftener it is 
warmed over, so there is no objection to making a farge 
quantity. The white Southern corn is considered the only 
kind suitable for this ancient dinner. 



286 The Boston Cook Book. 



Hulled Coin. 

Tie a quart of oak wood ashes in a flannel bag, and put 
it with three gallons of cold water into an iron kettle. Let 
it boil and become lye, or till the water is black. Put in 
four quarts of corn, and boil till the hulls have all started. 
Stir it well with a wooden spoon. Then pour it into a 
large pan of cold water, and rub with the hand thoroughly 
to loosen the hulls. Change the water five or six times, 
and wash and rub till the corn is white and clean. Keep 
in cold water over night ; then put on in fresh cold water, 
and simmer four hours, or till soft and floury. Take ofl 
the hulls and scum from the water, and add fresh water 
several times during the simmering. 

Indian Meal Pudding. (Mrs. Barnabas Churchill.) 

Rub a tablespoonful of butter round the bottom and sides 
of a smooth iron kettle, — granite or porcelain will do; 
when melted, add half a cup of boiling water. This will 
prevent the milk from burning. Add one quart of milk. 
Let it boil up, and almost over the kettle ; then sift in one 
pint of fine yellow granulated corn meal, sifting with the left 
hand, and holding the meal high, that every grain may be 
thoroughly scalded. Stir constantly ; add half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and set away till cold. Then add half a pint of 
New Orleans molasses and one quart of cold milk. Put into 
a well-buttered deep pudding-dish, cover with a plate, and 
bake very slowly ten or twelve hours. Put it in a " Satur- 
da}^ afternoon oven," where the fire will keep low nearly 
all night. Let it remain over night, and serve for a Sun- 
day breakfast. 

Chickins forc'd with Oysters. 
(Taken from a receipt book written in 1764.) 

Take Oysters, parsley, Onions, butter, pepper, Salt, grated 
Bread, Mushrooms — if you can get y m , & as many eggs 
as you think propper, fill them inside, & Cut y m on the 



The Boston Cook Book. 287 



breast, if you have a mind to, & put some of the stuffing 
there, make gravy of Oysters, *butter & mace, pepper, 
roast them well. 



Bean Porridge. (Mrs. C. M. Poor.) 

Five pounds of corned beef, not too salt, or four pounds 
of beef and one of salt pork ; one pint of dry white beans, four 
tablespoonfuls of corn meal, pepper and salt to taste, one pint 
of hulled corn. Soak the beans over night. In the morn- 
ing parboil in fresh water with a pinch of soda till soft. 
Put the corned beef and pork in cold water, skim carefully, 
and simmer four or five hours, or till tender. Take out, 
and cut into two-inch pieces, and remove the bone and 
gristle ; also the fat from the liquor. Put the meat and 
beans into the meat liquor, and simmer very slowly three 
or four hours; or till most of the beans are broken. Half 
an hour before serving stir in the meal, first wetting it in 
cold water to a smooth paste. The meal should thicken 
the porridge to about the consistency of a thick soup. The 
meat should be cooked till it falls apart. Season to taste 
with salt and pepper. Add the hulled corn, and when hot 
serve with brown bread. Sometimes the vegetables usu- 
allj T served with a boiled dinner are cooked with the meat, 
then removed, and the beans cooked as above, in the meat 
liquor. 

" This old-fashioned and very nutritious dish was one of 
the chief articles of winter food at my grandmother's farm 
in Northern New Hampshire eighty years ago. When 
cooked, it was poured into bowls or basins holding from 
a pint to two quarts. A- nice tow string was laid in a loop 
over the edge, and the porridge was placed where it would 
freeze. By holding the dish in hot water it would cause 
the porridge to slip out ; then it was hung up by the loops 
in the ' buttery,' and was considered ' best when nine 
days old/ At early dawn the ' men folks ' who went into 
the forest * chopping ' would take the skillet, or a little 
three-legged iron kettle, some large slices of 'rj T e and 






288 The Boston Cook Booh 

Indian 1 bread in their pockets to keep it from freezing. 
The porridge was hung • wrapped in a clean towel, upon 
the sled stakes. Their spoons were made of wood. The 
hay that lay on the floor of the ox sled was of use to keep 
their feet warm, and given to the oxen for ' bait ' at noon. 
When it was twelve o'clock * by the sun,' they kindled a 
fire by the aid of a ' tinder box,' warmed their porridge, 
and with their brown bread enjoyed this strong food as no 
modern epicure can his costly French dishes." 

Smothered Chicken. (Adaline Miller.} 

Clean a chicken, too old for broiling ; split down the 
back, and put it breast upwards in a shallow pan ; pour 
over it one cup of boiling water, and cover tightly to keep 
in the steam. Cook half an hour ; then baste with the hot 
water, rub all over with softened butter, and dredge with 
salt and pepper. Baste often, keep closely covered, and 
cook till tender. It should be yellow, not dark brown. 
Thicken the gravy ; add chopped parsley, salt, and pep- 
per, and pour it over the chicken. 

Steamed Apple and Indian Meal Pudding. (Mrs. Faunce.) 

Scald two cups of corn meal with boiling water. Add 
one teaspoonful of salt, one fourth of a cup of molasses, 
and two tart apples cut into eighths and cored, but not 
pared. Dissolve half a teaspoonful of soda in warm 
water, and add to the meal. Add more warm water to 
make a batter thin enough to pour. Four into a greased 
pail, place it on a trivet in a. kettle of boiling water. 
Cook three hours. The water must not stop boiling. To 
be eaten with roast meat. The next day warm what is 
left in the meat gravy. 



The Boston Cook Book. 289 



VEGETABLES. 

Vegetable food, in its widest sense, includes some part 
of every form of plant growth, — herb, shrub, or tree, — 
used either as vegetables, fruits, grains, condiments, or 
beverages. Vegetables, as the term is generally used, are 
such plants as are cultivated for culinary purposes. They 
comprise a variety of the parts of the plant, — roots, 
stems, leaves, flowers, and fruit. 

Before studying vegetables proper, it may be interesting 
for those who have never considered food from a botan- 
ical point of view to glance at the various forms of veg- 
etable growth commonly used as food. 

Beginning with roots, we find, among fleshy roots, the 
carrot, turnip, parsnip, beet, salsify, and radish, which are 
cooked in their natural state or used raw. Also from 
roots we get ginger, arrowroot, and tapioca. Rootstocks, or 
stems growing underground, consist of tubers, like the 
potato, yam, and artichoke, and of scaly bulbs, like the onion, 
chives, leek, and garlic. Stems we eat in asparagus ; and 
whole trunks of trees are felled and used in making sago, 
which is the pith of a species of palm-tree. 

Leaves include lettuce, endive, spinach, parsley, cabbage, 
and greens of various kinds. Dried leaves and flowers are 
used in the form of tea, sage, thyme, bay leaves, tobacco, 
marjoram, savory, and other herbs. Leaf stalks include 
celery and rhubarb ; flower stalks, cauliflower and globe arti- 
chokes. The juices of vegetables furnish many forms of 
food, — sugar, acids, honey, oil, gum, and wines. The 
bark we use in cinnamon. Unexpanded flower-buds are 
pickled, as in capers, or dried, as in cloves. Ripe cloves 
have no aroma. 

Many seeds or berries are gathered green, and are then 
dried for use. Allspice, or Jamaica pepper, cassia buds, 

19 



290 The Boston Cook Book. 

long peppers, and black pepper are of this class. Mustard 
and celery seeds are used as well as the leaves. Nutmegs 
are seeds ; and mace is the aril, or covering, of the nutmeg. 
Seed vessels are used green, as in string beans, and also dried 
and ground, as in cayenne pepper. Farinaceous seeds or 
grains include wheat, rye, oats, corn, barley, rice, and buck- 
wheat. They have a thin seed vessel adhering closely to 
the whole surface of the seed. Oleaginous seeds contain 
oil and starch, like the cocoanut, walnut, chestnut, almond, 
etc. Leguminous seeds are enclosed in pods, as peas, beans, 
lentils, etc. 

Under the general name of fruit we eat very different 
things. Fleshy fruits, like grapes, tomatoes, gooseberries, 
blueberries, cranberries, and currants, are pulpy seed vessels. 
Oranges and lemons are pulpy seed vessels, with a thick 
leathery rind. Squashes, melon, cucumbers, egg-plant, etc., 
are fleshy fruits with a hard rind. Chocolate is made 
from the seed of a fleshy fruit. In checkerberries, quinces, 
and in all parts of the apple and pear but the core, we eat 
a fleshy, enlarged calyx. In peaches, plums, apricots, cher- 
ries, and other stone fruits, we eat the outer part of a peri' 
carp or seed vessel. Olives belong to this class, and are 
used green and in the form of oil expressed from the 
fleshy pericarp. Coffee is the seed of a stone fruit. In 
figs we eat a hollow flower stalk, grown pulpy, and the 
inside lined with a great number of flowers. Mulberries 
are clusters of the pulpy flower leaves and stalk of minute 
multiple flowers. Pineapples are mulberries on a large 
scale. The strawberry is the receptacle of a flower grown 
juicy and pulpy, and bearing many one-seeded seed vessels 
on its surfaced Blackberries also are receptacles, though 
smaller, covered with clusters of little stone fruits. Rasp- 
berries are the little stone fruits in a clyster without the 
receptacle. 

Many fruits, when dried, are called by different names. 
Dried currants are small grapes. Sultanas are larger 
grapes, and raisins are another and larger variety of the 
same fruit. Prunes and prunellas are dried plums. 



1 



The Boston Cook Book. 291 

Some of the lower orders of vegetation afford valuable 
food. Irish and Ceylon mosses are seaweeds. Iceland 
moss is a lichen. Truffles and mushrooms are a species of 
fungi of vegetable growth, but possessing a strong meaty 
or animal flavor. 

We need a large variety of vegetables in our food to 
promote perfect health. Vegetables are rich in saline 
substances which counteract the evil effect of too much 
animal food. Some are rich in organic acids, and many 
abound in indigestible ligneous tissues which are useful 
in certain conditions. Those which contain starch and 
albumen and which can be stored for use during the winter 
months are considered the most valuable. All vegetables 
need the addition of salt and butter, or some form of fat, 
and many are rendered less indigestible by seasoning with 
pepper. Peas, beans, squashes, beets, turnips, etc., which 
contain sugar, should be slightly sweetened, as much of 
the natural sweetness is lost in cooking ; and those con- 
taining potash salts, as cabbage and lettuce, need an acid 
condiment. m Beans, peas, and other vegetables, which are 
difficult of digestion, are less indigestible if eaten in the 
form of purees. 

Green vegetables should be freshty gathered, thoroughly 
washed in cold water, and cooked in freshly boiling 
salted water. It is impossible to give a definite time 
for cooking, as much depends upon their age and the time 
they have been gathered. Wilted vegetables require a 
much longer time than fresh. All vegetables should be 
cooked until soft and tender, and no longer. This is 
better ascertained by watching them carefully and piercing 
with a fork than by depending upon any time-table. Veg- 
etables which are eaten raw and are liable to ferment in 
the stomach are usually dressed with some condiment, — 
oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. 

Every green vegetable keeps its color better if it be 
boiled rapidly and uncovered. Many use soda for the 
same purpose, but unwisely. 



292 The Boston Cook Book. 



Potatoes. 

The potato is more generally used than any other veg- 
etable. It combines with other foods — meats particularly 
— to give the desired elements. But it should not be used 
alone, or in too great a proportion, as it gives very little 
flesh-forming material. When taken exclusively, such a 
large bulk of it is required for sustenance that it results 
in increased size and prominence of the stomach, which 
sometimes amounts to deformity. 

Potatoes are three fourths water. The solid matter 
consists largely of starch, with a small quantity of albumen 
and mineral matter held in solution in the juices. The 
quantity of starch increases during the autumn, and remains 
stationary during the winter. In spring, when germination 
commences, the starch is changed to gum, and renders 
the potatoes mucilaginous. The sugar formed from this 
gum renders them sweeter. Potatoes which have" been 
frozen and thawed suddenly are sweeter and more watery 
than before, because on exposure to the warmth and air 
the starch is changed to sugar. They should be kept 
frozen until ready to use, or used immediately after thaw- 
ing in cold water. The sprouts on potatoes should bw 
removed as soon as they appear, since, if they are allowed 
to grow, they exhaust the starch, and render the potatoes 
unfit for food. Potatoes should- be kept in a dry, cool 
cellar. 

Botanically, potatoes belong to the same poisonous 
order as tobacco and deadly nightshade, and contain an 
acid juice which is unpleasant to the taste and often 
renders them indigestible. This lies in and near the rind 
of the potato. It is drawn out by heat. When the 
potatoes are baked it escapes in the steam, if they are 
opened at once ; and when they are boiled, it is absorbed 
by the water. It is nQt wasteful, therefore, to peel pota- 
toes before cooking, or to take off quite a thick peel, as 
they are thus rendered more wholesome. Taste the water 
in which potatoes have been boiled, and you will have no 



The Boston Cook Book. 293 



desire to use it in your yeast, bread, or stews. Potatoes 
when first peeled are white, but turn brown on exposure 
to the air. For this reason they should be covered with 
cold water as soon as peeled. New potatoes are watery, 
as the starch is not fully formed. They have a very thin 
skin, which may be rubbed or scraped off. 

Raw potatoes which are to be fried should be thinly 
sliced, and soaked in cold water to draw out all the starch, 
that they may be crisp and not mealy. The cells which 
hold the starch grains are of an albuminous nature. 
These cells are divided in slicing the potatoes, and the 
starch is drawn out into the water ; the albuminous mem- 
brane hardens in frying, and makes the potatoes crisp. 

Boiled potatoes should be drained the moment the heat 
bursts all the starch grains, which maj 7 easilj- be determined 
by their soft texture when pierced with a fork, else the 
starch will absorb water, and the potatoes become pasty 
and unwholesome. 

Baked potatoes should be served as soon as soft, and 
the skin should be slightly ruptured by squeezing to let 
the steam within escape, else it will condense and make 
the potato watery and unwholesome. Potatoes which are 
cut or sliced for stews and chowders should be soaked 
and scalded to remove the greenness before adding them 
to the stew. 

Boiled Potatoes. — Select potatoes of uniform size. 
Wash and scrub with a brush. Pare, and soak in cold 
water. Put them in boiling salted water, — one quart 
of water and one table'spoonful of salt for six large potatoes. 
Cook half an hour or until soft, but not until broken. 
Drain off every drop of the water. Place the kettle un- 
covered on the back of the stove to let the steam escape. 
Keep hot until ready to serve. 

Potatoes a la Neige. — Prepare the potatoes as above, 
and when well drained and mealy beat them thoroughly 
with a fork, add salt to taste, and serve at once, piled 
lightly on the dish. 

Rice Potato. — Bub the beaten potato through a squash 



*! 



294 ^e Boston Cook Book. 



strainer into the dish in which it is to be served. Keep 
the dish in a pan of hot water, and use a potato masher 
or pestle to facilitate the rubbing. Mashed and riced 
potatoes maj y be browned by placing the dish in the oven 
a few minutes. 

Mashed Potatoes. — To one pint of hot boiled potatoes, 
add one tablespoonful of butter, half a teaspoonjul of salt, 
half a saltspoonful of pepper, and hot milk or cream to 
moisten. Mash in the kettle in which they were boiled, 
and beat with a fork until light and creamy, and turn out 
lightly on a dish. Never smooth it over, as that will make 
it heavy and compact. 

Potato Balls. — One pint of hot mashed potatoes highly 
seasoned with salt, pepper, celery salt, chopped parsley, and 
butter ; moisten, if needed, with a little hot milk or cream. 
Beat one egg light, and add part of it to the potatoes. 
Shape into smooth round balls. Brush over with the re- 
mainder of the egg, and bake on a buttered tin until 
brown. Be careful not to get them too moist. 

Potato Puff. — Prepare as for potato balls, making w 
quite moist with cream or milk. Beat the yolks and white* 
of two eggs separately, and stir them into the potatoes 
when slightly cooled. Turn into a shallow baking-dish, 
pile it in a rocky form, and bake ten minutes, or until it is 
puffed and browned. Add half a cup of finely chopped 
cooked meat, to give a variety. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. — Cut one pint of cold boiled potatoes 
into dice, and season with salt and pepper. Fry one scant 
tablespoonful of minced onion in one heaping tablespoonful of 
butter \ until yellow. Add the potatoes, and 'stir with a 
fork until they have absorbed all the butter, being careful 
not to break them. Add one t tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, and serve hot. One tablespoonful} of vinegar 
heated with the butter gives the potatoes a nice flavor. 

Creamed Potatoes. — Cut cold boiled potatoes into cubes 
measuring one third of an inch, or into thin slices. Put 
them in a small shallow pan, cover with milk, and cook 
until the potatoes have absorbed nearly all the milk. To 



The Boston Cook Book. . # 295 



one pint of potatoes add one tablespoonful of butter, half a 
teaspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, and a little 
chopped parsley. 

Fried Potatoes. — Cut cold boiled potatoes into slices 
about a quarter of an inch thick. Have a frying-pan hot 
and well greased with salt pork or bacon fat. Cook the 
potatoes in the fat until brown, then turn, and brown the 
other side. 

French Potatoes. — Fry as above, pour a white sauce on 
a platter, and arrange the fried potatoes on the sauce. 

Potatoes a la Maitre oV Hotel. — Prepare the Maitre 
d'Hotel butter ; mix one tablespoonful of butter, creamed, with 
the whole yolk of one egg. Add one teaspoonful of lemon juice, 
one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, half a teaspoonful of salt, 
and half a saltspoonful of pepper. Cut one pint of cold boiled 
potatoes in thin slices or dice, or cut raw potatoes- into 
balls with a French cutter, and boil them ten minutes. 
Warm the potatoes in milk enough to barely cover them. 
When the milk is nearly absorbed, stir in quickly the 
Maitre d'Hotel butter, and serve at once. 

Baked Potatoes. — Select smooth potatoes of uniform 
size. Wash, and scrub well. Bake in a hot oven about 
forty-five minutes, or until soft. Pinch them to break the 
skins, and let the steam escape. Serve at once, and 
never cover, as the steam causes them to become soggy. 
, Franconia Potatoes {Baked with Meat) . — Wash, scrub, 
and pare potatoes of uniform size. Put them in the drip- 
ping-pan with the meat, and baste when the meat is 
basted. Or place them in a small tin pan beside the 
meat or on the grate, and ba»f?;with the dripping. 

Potatoes in the Half- Shell, or Souffle. — Wash, scrub, 
and bake three smooth potatoes. Cut in halves lengthwise, 
and without breaking the skin scoop oCtf the potato into a 
hot bowl. Mash, and add one even tablespoonful of butter, 
one of hot milk, and salt and pepper to taste. Beat the whites 
of two eggs stiff, and mix it with the potato. Fill the skins 
with the potato mixture, heaping it lightly on the top. 
Brown slightly. 



V 



296 



The Boston Cook Book. 




Fig. 89. Stuffed Potatoes. 



Stuffed Potatoes. — Bake potatoes of equal size ; when 
done, and still hot, cut off a small piece from the end of 
each potato. Scoop out the inside. Mash, and mix with 

it half the quantity of cooked 
meat, highly seasoned and 
finely chopped. Fill the 
skins a little above the 
edge. Set in the oven to 
brown the tops. Or omit 
the meat, and fill only with 
the mashed and seasoned 
potato. Replace the cover, and heat again. 

Fried Raw Potatoes. — Pare, wash, and cut into the de- 
sired shape. Soak in cold salted water, drain, and dry 
between towels. ¥vy in clear fat, hot enough to brown 
while counting sixty. Drain, and sprinkle with salt. 

Saratoga Potatoes are shaved in thin slices. Parisienne 
Potatoes are cut in small balls with a French vegetable 
cutter. Macaroni, or Shoo Fly, Potatoes are cut in quarter- 
inch slices, then in quarter-inch strips. Crescents and 
other shapes may be cut with vegetable cutters. 

These are all to be fried ; but some prefer to boil the 
Parisienne potatoes, and serve in a cream sauce, flavored 
with parsley. 

Sweet Potatoes may be baked or boiled. They are better 
baked. Cold sweet potatoes may be cut in slices, warmed 
in milk, and seasoned with butter and salt, or browned in 
butter. 

A Southern Dish. (Adaline Miller.) — Cut cold baked 
sweet potatoes into quarter-inch slices, and put them in an 
earthen dish. Spread each layer with butter, and sprinkle 
slightly with sugar, and bake until hot and slightly browned. 
Sweet potatoes are much richer when twice cooked. 

Spinach. 

Pick over, trim off the roots and decayed leaves ; wash 
thoroughly, lifting the spinach from one pan of water into 
another, that the sand may be left in the water, and 



The Boston Cook Book. 297 



changing the water until it is clear. Put the spinach in a 
large kettle without water. Place it on the stove where it 
will cook slowly until the juice is drawn out, then boil 
until tender. Drain and chop fine. For half a peck of 
spinach add one large tablespoonful of butter, half a tea- 
spoonful of salty and a quarter of a saUspoonful of pepper ; 
or add a little thin cream sauce. Heat again and serve on 
toast. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs and toast points, or 
serve cold with French dressing. 

Spinach is nearly all water, and a smaller portion of the 
potash salts — its most valuable constituent — is lost when 
it is cooked in its own juices. 

Greens. 

The leaves and stalks of }'oung beets, milkweed, dande- 
lions, and narrow dock are useful as food in the early 
spring, chiefly for the water and alkaline salts which they 
contain. They should be picked over, and washed care- 
fully, cooked in boiling salted water until tender, then 
drained, and seasoned with butter and salt. Vinegar is 
often used with them as a desirable condiment. Many 
people consider it necessary to boil a piece of salt pork with 
greens, but they are more wholesome when seasoned with 
butter. Dandelions should be cooked in plenty of water ; 
but other tender greens may be cooked, like spinach, in 
their own juices. 

Asparagus. 

Wash carefully and break (not cut) into inch pieces 
as far as each stalk can be broken. When it will not snap 
off quickly, the stalk is too tough to be used. Cook in 
boiling salted water, deep enough to cover, for fifteen min- 
utes, or until tender. When the asparagus is not fresh 
and tender, it is well to boil the hardest part first, and add 
the tender heads after ten minutes. Drain, season with 
butter and salt, or pour white sauce over it, and serve on 
toast. Many people prefer to leave the stalks whole, and 
tie them into bundles before boiling. When served in this 
way, unless all the tough part be broken off before cook- 



298 The Boston Cook Book. 

ing, it is inconvenient, if not impossible, to cut the stalk 

afterward. 

Green Peas. 

Peas are fresh when the pods are green, crisp, and 
plump. The fresh pods are sweet, and full of flavor. 
Wash the pods before shelling, then the peas will require 
no washing. Put the peas into a colander, and sift out 
the fine particles. Boil the pods ten minutes, skim them 
out, and add the peas. Boil fifteen minutes, or till tender. 
When nearly done, add the salt. Let the water boil nearly 
away, and serve without draining, except when the peas 
are to be served as a garnish. Season with butter, cream, 
salt, and a little sugar. 

Old peas should be cooked until tender, drained, mashed, 
and rubbed through a sieve, and served as a vegetable or 
made into a pur^e. 

Peas are nutritious, but they are indigestible unless the 
hull be broken before they are swallowed. 

Beans. 

String Beans. — Remove the strings. The surest way 
to do that is to pare a thin strip from each edge of the pods. 
Many persons think this unnecessary ; but the beans are 
much more delicate, and two or three strings are enough 
to spoil the whole dish. Lay a handful of the pods on a 
board with the ends even, and cut them all at once into 
inch pieces. Wash, and cook in boiling salted water from 
one to three hours, the time varying with different vari- 
eties of beans. Dr$in ; season with butter, salt, and cream, 
and serve hot, or serve cold as a salad. When ver}^ young 
and tender, they may be cooked in just water enough to 
keep them from burning. 

Shelled Beans. — Wash, and cook in boiling water ; al- 
ways use soft water. Add salt after ten minutes, and boil 
until tender. Let the water boil nearly away, and serve 
without draining. Season with butter and salt. Lima 
beans and other white varieties are improved by adding 
a little hot cream. 




The Boston Cook Book. 299 



Green or Sweet Corn. 

Remove the husk, and every thread of the siikj* fibre. 
Put into boiling water, cover with the clean inner husks, 
and cook from five to fifteen minutes. Try a kernel, and 
take up the corn as soon as the milk has thickened and 
the raw taste is destroyed. Corn, if boiled a long time, is 
made hard and its flavor impaired. 

Green Corn Fritters, or Mock Oysters. — Cut through 
each row of kernels with the point of a sharp knife. Then 
with the back of the knife press out the pulp, and leave 
the hull on the cob. This is better and easier than to 
shave or grate off the kernels. To one pint of corn pulp 
add two well-beaten eggs, half a teaspoonful of salt, half 
a saltspoonful of pepper, and two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
or just enough to keep the corn and egg together. Do 
not add milk, as then more flour will be required, and this 
destroys the flavor of the corn. Fry in small cakes on a 
buttered griddle, and brown well on each side ; or add 
mqm flour, and drop by spoonfuls into deep fat. When 
highly seasoned with salt and pepper, these fritters have 
the flavoi? of oysters. Make in the same way with canned 
corn, finely chopped. Add two tablespoonfuls of milk, as 
the canned corn is less moist than the fresh. 

/Succotash. — This ma}- be made by mixing equal quan- 
tities of shelled beans and corn cut from the cob, having 
first cooked and seasoned them separately. Or cut the 
raw corn from the cob, by scoring each row and pressing 
the pulp out with the back of the knife, leaving the hulls 
on the cob, and when the beans are nearty soft, add the 
corn, and cook fifteen minutes. Add cream, butter, salt, 
and sugar to taste. 

In winter, when the vegetables are dry and hard, soak 
the corn and Lima beans over night. Put the beans on 
in cold water, changing it twice. As soon as it boils, add 
the corn, and cook slowly several hours, or till soft. Sea- 
son with butter, sugar, and salt. Canned Lima beans and 
canned corn are also used. 



300 The Boston Cook Book. 

Corn, beans, and peas are delicious and wholesome sum- 
mer vegetables. Much of the prejudice against their use 
among children results from imperfect mastication, which 
renders them indigestible. Every row of kernels should 
be cut with a sharp knife if the corn be served on the 
cob, and every pea or bean should be mashed with a fork 
to insure their perfect digestion. Thus eaten, these vege- 
tables are valuable food, and will cause no trouble. 

Tomatoes. 

Raw Tomatoes. — Scald and peel at least an hour be- 
fore using. Keep them on the ice/ and serve with sugar \ 
salt, vinegary or with Mayonnaise dressing. If very, 
large, they may be sliced before serving. 

Stewed Tomatoes. — Pour boiling water over them, 
remove the skins and the hard green stem. Cut them 
into quarters, and stew in a granite pan fifteen minutes, 
until the pulp is soft and the juice is partly boiled away. 
Add salt, pepper, butter, and sugar if desired. The 
tomato may be thickened with cracker crumbs or with 
cornstarch wet in a little cold water. 

Scalloped Tomatoes. — Season one quart of tomatoes 
with one teaspoonful of salt, one saltspoonful of pepper, 
half a cup of sugar, and a few drops of onion juice. 
Butter a deep dish, and sprinkle with fine crumbs. Pour 
in the tomatoes. Moisten one cup of cracker crumbs with 
half a cup of melted butter. Spread over the top, and 
brown in the oven. Raw tomatoes sliced may be used in 
layers, alternating with crumbs and seasoning. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. — Cut a thin slice from the stem end 
of large, smooth tomatoes. Remove the seeds and soft 
pulp, and mix with the pulp an equal amount of buttered 
cracker crumbs. Season to taste with salt, pepper, sugar, 
and onion juice. Fill the cavity with the mixture, heap- 
ing it in the centre, and sprinkle buttered crumbs over the 
fx>p. Place the tomatoes in a granite pan, and bake until 
fthe crumbs are brown. Take them up carefully with a 



The Boston Cook Book. 301 

,- •  '  ii 1  

broad knife, and serve very hot. A small quantity of 
cooked meat finely chopped may be used with the 
crumbs. 

Onions. 

Pour boiling water over them, and remove the skins. 
Put them in boiling salted water. When they have 
boiled five minutes, change the water, and change again 
after ten minutes. Boil half an hour, or until tender, but 
not until broken. Drain off the water, add milk enough 
to cover, and cook five or ten minutes longer. Season 
with butter, salt, and pepper. Serve plain or as a garnish 
for beef. Or omit the seasoning, and pour white sauce 
over them. 

Baked or Scalloped Onions. — Boil, and if large cut 
into quarters. Put into a shallow dish, cover with white 
sauce and buttered crumbs, and bake until the crumbs are 
brown. 

Onions are rich in flesh-forming elements, are soothing 
to the mucous membrane, and are otherwise medicinal. 
They impart an agreeable flavor to many kinds of food. 

Cauliflower. 

The leaves should be green and fresh, and the heads 
creamy white. When there are dark spots, the cauliflower 
is wilted. Pick off the outside leaves, soak in cold salted 
water, top downwards, for one hour, to cleanse it thor- 
oughly. Tie it in a twine bag, to prevent breaking. Cook 
in boiling salted water fifteen or twenty minutes, or until 
tender. If not boiled in a bag, remove the scum before 
it settles on the cauliflower. Serve in a shallow dish, and 
cover with a cream or HoUandaise sauce. Or add a little 
grated cheese, and cover with cracker crumbs moistened 
in melted butter, and bake until the crumbs are brown. 
Or when cold, serve as a salad with Mayonnaise dressing. 
Cauliflower may be cut in small pieces, and served as a 
garnish around broiled chicken or sweetbreads. 



302 The Boston Cook Book. 

Cabbage. 

Select a small heavy cabbage. Remove the outside 
leaves, cut into quarters, cut off the tough stalk, soak in 
cold salted water half an hour. Cook till tender in boil- 
ing salted water, changing the water twice. Drain, cut 
or chop fine, season with salt and butter, or cover with 
white sauce and buttered crumbs, and bake till the crumbs 
are brown. 

The cauliflower and cabbage contain more gluten, and 
are therefore more nutritious, than any other vegetable 
food. They should be eaten with fat and oily food, and 
require an acid, like lemon juice or vinegar, as a condi- 
ment. Cabbage is considered indigestible, and many boil 
with it a small piece of red pepper to counteract this 
effect. If the water in which cabbage is boiled be changed 
two or three times, less of the strong odor and flavor is 
retained. With proper treatment this vegetable may be 
served as temptingly as any other. It is more wholesome 
when served in its raw state as a salad than when cooked. 

Celery. 

Scrape clean, and cut the stalks into inch pieces ; cook 
in boiling salted water half an hour, or until tender. 
Drain and mix with a white sauce; or dip them in fritter 
batter, and fry in hot fat. Celery is usually eaten raw, as 
a salad, but is more digestible when cooked. Celery is 
particularly good for nervous or rheumatic people. 

Egg Plant. 

Cut the plant into slices one third of an inch thick, with- 
out removing the skin. Sprinkle salt over each slice, pile 
them, and cover with a weight to press out the juice. Drain, 
and dip eachteliee first infne crumbs, then in beaten egg, 
and again in crumbs r and saute' them in hot fat. Egg 
plants belong to the same family as the potato and tobacco, 
all of which contain a bitter juice, more or less poisonous. 



The Boston Cook Book. 303 

Egg Plant Fritters. (Adaline Miller.) — Put the egg 
plant whole into boiling salted water, mixed with one 
taMespoonful of vinegar or lemon juice; cook twenty 
minutes or until tender ; mash and drain. To one pint of 
egg plant add half a cup of flour, two eggs, well beaten, 
and salt and pepper to taste. Fry in small cakes in hot 
fat, browning well on both sides. 

. Artichokes. 

The Jerusalem Artichoke is a tuber, something like the 
potato ; but as it contains no starch, it is not meal}'. Feel 
and throw at once into cold water and vinegar to preserve 
the color. Cook in boiling salted water until tender, watch 
closely, and take them out as they become soft, for if left 
in longer they will harden again. Serve with a white sauce. 
Jerusalem artichokes may be used as a salad, or they may 
be pickled. 

Globe Artichokes. — These are thick, fleshy-petalled 
flowers which grow on a plant that resembles the thistle. 
The thickened receptacle and scales of the involucre form 
the edible portion. Soak the artichokes, cut off the out- 
side leaves, trim away the lower leaves and the ends of 
the others. Cook in boiling salted water, with the tops 
downward, half an hour, or until the leaves can be drawn 
out. Drain, remove the choke, and serve with drawn 

butter. 

Mushrooms. 

Peel the top and stalk, break in small pieces, place 
them in a stewpan, sprinkle slightly with salt and pepper, 
and let them stand half an hour, until the juice is drawn 
out. Stew the mushrooms in the juice and a little butter 
until tender, add cream to cover, and when the cream is 
hot serve on toast. Mushrooms are considered difficult of 
digestion. They are a fungous growth, and have a woody 
odor and a meaty flavor. They are used largely in sauces. 
Unless familiar with the difference between the edible and 
the poisonous mushrooms, it is safer to use the canned 
mushrooms, or to obtain the fresh at a reliable market. 



304 The Boston Cook Booh 

The eatable mushroom first appears very small, and of 
a round button shape, on a short underground stalk. At 
this stage it is all white. It grows rapidly, and soon the 
skin breaks around the base of the button, which there 
spreads like an umbrella, and shows underneath a fringed 
fur of a fine salmon-color, which changes to a chocolate 
and then to a dark brown color, when the mushrooms have 
attained some size. They are in perfection before the last 
change. The skin should peel easily. Those with yellow 
or white fur, and which grow in low, damp shady places, 
should be avoided. The good mushrooms spring up in 
open sunny fields in AugustTand September. Do not trust 
to any written description, but search the fields with some 
one who can unerringly distinguish them. 

The common puff-ball, when white and hard, though not 
so delicate as the mushroom, makes a palatable dish. It 
should be peeled with a silver knife, cut in slices half an 
inch thick, dipped in crumbs and egg, or in a batter, and 
fried. Serve at once. 

Winter Squash. 

If the shell be soft, peel the squash, remove the seeds, 
and steam or cook in boiling salted water. If the shell be 
hard, split the squash, remove the seeds, and steam or 
boil until soft. Scrape out the soft part from the shell, 
mash, and season to taste. A pint of squash needs one 
tablespoonful of butter, a few grains of pepper, half 
a teaspoonful of sugar, and salt to taste. Squash 
may be baked in the shell, then mashed, and seasoned as 
above. 

Summer Squashes are good only when young, fresh, 
and tender. Wash, and cut into quarters or small pieces. 
The skin and seeds need not be removed. Cook in boiling 
salted water twenty minutes, or until tender. Place the 
squash in a strainer cloth, mash it thoroughly, squeeze the 
cldth until the squasn is dry. Add a little cream or butter, 
salt said pepper, and heat again before serving. 



The Boston Cook Book. 305 



Carrots and Turnips. 

Carrots and turnips contain, instead of starch, a gelati- 
nous gummy substance, called pectine. They are useful 
in soups, giving them a fine flavor and color. Soups in 
which carrots are used are gelatinous when cold. Carrots 
are not a favorite vegetable for the table ; but if j'oung 
and tender, they are palatable when boiled, and served in 
a white sauce. They should be washed and scraped (not 
pared) before boiling. Old carrots are sometimes boiled, 
and served with corned beef Jand salt fish. Their rich 
color makes them effective as1#garnish. The red, outside 
part is considered the best, as the inside is stringy. 

Turnips contain* but little nutriment. They are very 
watery, and having no starch are agreeable food to be 
eaten with potatoes. They contain no salt, and therefore 
need more than other vegetables. Being wholly deficient 
in starch and fat, they are good with fat meat, corned beef, 
roast pork, and mutton. 

Turnips in White Sauce. — Wash and cut French tur- 
nips into half or three-quarter inch slices ; pare and cut 
each slice into strips, and then into cubes. Boil in boiling 
salted water until tender. Drain and pour white sauce 
over them. Turnips may also be mashed, drained, and 
seasoned with butter, pepper, and salt. 

Parsnips. 

Parsnips contain starch and sugar, a small portion of 
gluten, and less water than carrots or turnips. They are 
eaten with salt fish and corned beef. Those which have 
remained in the ground through the winter are considered 
the best. They should be washed and scrubbed thor- 
oughly, but are more easily peeled after boiling. Cut 
them into half-inch cubes, and serve in white sauce. 

Parsnip Fritters. — After boiling the parsnips, plunge 
them into cold water and the skins will slip off easily, 
mash them, and season to taste with butter, salt, and 
pepper. Flour the hands, and shape the mashed parsnip 

20 



* 



306 The Boston Cook Book. 

- — — - — .,.— ...... . „ — _^__^___ 

into small, flat ova} cakes. Boll them in flour, and fry 
them in butter until brown ; or dip them in molasses, and 
then fry. 

Salsify, or Oyster Plant. 

Scrape, and throw at once into cold water, with a little 
vinegar m it to keep them from turning black. Cook in 
boiling salted water one hour, or until tender. Drain, 
mash, and season, and fry like parsnip fritters ; or cut 
into inch lengths, and mix with a white sauce / or dip thn 
Nieces in fritter batter ', #ad*IVy in hot fat 

• "Be^tJ?.^;. 

Wash, but do not cut them, at^ira destroys the sweet- 
ness and color. Cook in boiling water until tender. Young 
beets will cook in one hour, old beets require a longer 
time ; and if tough, wilted, or stringy, they will never boil 
tender. When cooked, put them in a pan of cold water, 
and rub off the skin. Young beets are cuf in slices, and 
served hot with butter, salt, and pepper, or cut in small 
cubes and served in a white sauce. They are often pickled 
in vinegar, spiced or plain, and served cold ; or they may 
be cut into dice, and mixed with other vegetables for a 
salad. 

Rice. 

Rice should be thoroughly washed. Turn the rice into 
a coarse strainer, and place the strainer in a deep dish of 
cold water. Rub the nee, and lift it in the strainer out of 
the water, changing the water till it "is clear. It is impor- 
tant to observe all the steps of this process, for in this 
way all the grit is deposited in the water, leaving the rice 
thoroughly cleansed. Drain, and cook in either of the 
following ways, each of which, if followed carefully, will 
insure white, distinct kernels of thoroughly cooked rice. 

Boiled Bice, -r Have two quarts of water with one table* 
spoonful of salt boiling rapidly in an uncovered kettle. 
Throw in one cup of well-washed rice, and let it boil so 
fast that the kernels fairly dance in the water. Skim care- 



1 



1 




The Boston Cook Book. 307 

^~~— ' ' ' — — ^ — . — — 

fully, and stir with a fork, never with a spoon, as that 
mashes the kernels.- Cook twelve, fifteen, or twenty min- 
utes, according to the age of the rice, and add more boiling 
water if needed. Test the grains often, and the moment 
they are soft, and before the starch begins to dissolve and 
cloud the water, pour into a squash strainer. Drain, and 
place the rice — still in the strainer — in a pan in the hot 
closet or on the back of the stove. Stir'it before serving, 
to let the steam escape and the kernels become dry. Be 
careful not to cook the rice enough to burst the grains, 
as then nothing can prevefcM^p^frolii sticking together. 

Steamed Mice. — Pouf%£<^»s of boiling water on ^ne m 
cup of well- washed fi^^vAd half a teaspoonful of fait. 
Cook in the double bouer thirty minutes, or .till soft. Re- 
move the cover, stir with a fork to let the steam escape, 
and dry off the rice. Rice will usually absorb twice its 
bulk of water ; but when cooked in milk or stock a little 
more moisture will be required. 

Some of the nitrogenous and mineral constituents, of 
wLich rice has but a small amount, are lost in the boiling 
water, and unless the water be used for soup, to boil rice 
is a wasteful process. Steaming is a much easier method, 
and is more economical. Many dishes may be prepared 
from combinations of rice and various seasoning materials. 

Savory Mice. — Steam one scant cup of rice and two 
cups of rich white or brown stock highly seasoned with 
salt, cayenne, chopped parsley, and ground herbs. Stir 
in one tablespoonful of butter with a fork, just before 
serving. 

No. 2. — Fry one tablespoonful of chopped onion in 
one heaping tablespoonful of butter until yellow ; add 
one scant cup of uncooked rice, and stir until slightly 
colored ; then add one pint of chicken stock, and pour 
all' into the double boiler, and steam thirty minutes. 

Salmon Mice. — Use half stock and half strained toma- 
toes ; season nighty with curry \ and cook like Savor3 r Rice. 

Mice with Cheese. — Steam the rice after either of the 
preceding receipts, and put it in a shallow dish in layers, 



308 The Boston Cook Booh 



alternating with grated cheese and tomato sauce, or with 
slices of hard-boiled eggs and thin cream sauce. Heat in 
the oven with or without a crust of buttered crumbs. 

Macaroni, Spaghetti, and Vermicelli. 

These are thick pastes" made from wheaten flour mixed 
with a small quantity of water. The}' are made to take 
various shapes bj T being forced through holes in metallic 
plates. These plates are arranged over a fire ; and the 
macaroni, as it issues from the holes, is partially baked, 
and afterward hung to dry over rods. Vermicelli is used 
in soup and puddings ; macaroni and spaghetti as vege- 
tables. 

Macaroni is a nutritious and economical food, and should 
be used more extensive^ than it is. Do not wash it, as 
the boiling water will better take off anything that needs 
to be removed. Always cook it in boiling salted water 
until tender, before serving it in an}* way. Drain, and 
pour cold water over it to keep it from becoming pasty. 
Macaroni, as frequently prepared, in long pieces, which 
utterly refuse to come out of the dish in a proper manner 
when served, is not attractive. Nor is it palatable when 
it is only slightly seasoned, and is dried in the oven with- 
out a covering of sauce or crumbs. 

Macaroni. — Break one quarter of a pound of maca- 
roni in three-inch pieces, and put into three pints of boilr 
ing salted water. Boil twenty minutes, or until soft. 
Drain in a colander, and pour cold water through it to 
cleanse and keep it from sticking. Cut into inch pieces. 
Lay the strips on a board, parallel to each other, and cut 
through them all at once. Put in a shallow baking-dish 
and cover with a white sauce, made with a cup and a half 
of hot milk, one tablespoonful of butter, and one table- 
spoonful of flour, cooked according to directions for White 
Sauce (see page 189) . Add half a teaspoonful of salt 
Mix two thirds of a cup of fine cracker crumbs with a third 
of a cup of melted butter, and sprinkle over the top. Bake 
till the crumbS are brown. 



The Boston Cook Booh 309 

If cheese be liked with it, use half a cup of grated Par- 
meson or anj r other dry cheese. Put part of it with the 
macaroni, and mix the remainder with the crumbs. 

JVo. 2. — Mix two hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine, with 
the macaroni. Sprinkle each kiyer with salt and pepper, 
and add a little made mustard, if 3011 wish. Cover with 
milk and buttered crumbs, and bake until the crumbs are 
brown. 

No. 3. — Pour a rich white sauce over the macaroni, 
and serve grated cheese on a separate dish. 

Macaroni and Tomatoes. — Boil as above, and cover 
with tomato sauce. Fry one tablespoonful of chopped 
onion in one tablespoonful of butter. Add one large table- 
spoonful of flour ; when well mixed, add gradually a cup 
and a half of strained tomato and half a teaspoonful of 
salt. Pour over the macaroni, and warm in the oven ; or 
cover with buttered crumbs, and bake until the crumbs are 
brown. 

Spaghetti. — This is a variety of macaroni about one 
eighth of an inch in diameter. It is usually served un ; 
broken. Take a handful of the long sticks, plunge the 
ends into rapidly boiling salted water. As they soften, 
bend and coil the spaghetti in the water, without breaking 
it, until it is all softened. Boil until tender. Drain, pour 
cold water through it, and serve without cutting, if you are 
skilled in the art of winding it around your fork, as the 
Italians do. Serve the same as macaroni, with cream or 
tomato sauce, cheese, and crumbs. 

Salads. 

Green vegetables which are eaten raw and dressed 
with oil, acids, salt, and pepper, are classed as salads. 
Potatoes, string beans, beets, asparagus, cauliflower, and 
many other vegetables which have been cooked, are eaten 
cold with a salad dressing. Lobster, oysters, salmon, and 
other kinds of cooked fish, eggs, chicken, and delicate 
meats are combined with lettuce, cresses, or celery, and 




310 • The Boston Cook Book. 

salad dressing, and furnish many appetizing and refreshing 
varieties of this useful form of food. 

There is a strong prejudice with many against tne use 
of oil. It is not strange when we remember the rancid 
oil sometimes offered us. Pure olive oil is seldom to be 
obtained, if we are to believe all that the opposers of adul- 
teration assert. No doubt much that is sold as olive oil 
is made from cotton seed ; but if it were sold under its 
right name and at a reasonable price there would be no 
objection to its use. When properly purified, and sweet, 
it may be as wholesome as olive oil. They are both veg- 
etable oils, which are always considered more nutritious 
than animal oils. Oil is one of the best forms of fat we 
can use, and aids in digestion. Oil, when taken only in 
lobster salad or at late suppers, as is often the case, is 
held accountable for the horrors and torment following 
such a use ; but if used seasonably and moderately, there 
will be no ill effects. 

French Dressing. 



1 saltspoonful salt 
% saltspoonful pepper. 
8 tablespoonf uls oil. 



J^ teaspoonf ul onion juice. 
1 tablespoonful vinegar. 



Mix in the order given, adding oil slowly. 

This dressing is suitable for vegetable and egg salads, 
and is also used to marinate, or pickle, a meat or fish-salad. 
The onion ma} r be omitted, and lemon juice may be used 
instead of vinegar. A teaspoonful of made mustard 
added to a French dressing is liked by many. 

Boiled Dressing. 



Yolks of 3 eggs beaten. 

1 teaspoonful mustard. 

2 teaspoonfuls salt. 

J^ saltspoonful cayenne. 
2 tablespoonf uls sugar. 



2 tablespoonfuls melted butter 

or oil. 
1 cup cream or milk. 
% cup hot vinegar. 
Whites of 3 eggs, beaten stiff. 



Cook in the double boiler until it thickens like soft cus- 
tard. Stir well. This will keep in a cool place two weeks, 



The Boston Cook Booh 311 

and is excellent for lettuce, celery, asparagus, string beans, 
and cauliflower. 

Boiled Dressing for Gold Slaw. — Boil half a cup of 
vinegar with two teaspoonfuls of sugar, half a teaspoon- 
ful each of salt and mustard, and half a saltspoonful 
of pepper. Rub a quarter of a cup of butter to a cream, 
with one teaspoonful of flour, and pour the boiling vinegar 
on it. Cook five minutes, then pour it over one well-beaten 
egg. The yolk only may be used, and the white saved for 
clearing coffee. Mix this dressing, while hot, with one 
pint of red cabbage, shaved or chopped, or with a mixed 
vegetable salad. Cold slaw is delicious served with fried 
oysters or fish. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 



1 teaspoonful mustard. 

1 teaspoonful powdered sugar. 

3*2 teaspoonful salt. 

}£ saltspoonful cayenne. 



Yolks of 2 raw eggs. 

1 pint olive oil. 

2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 

2 tablespoonf uls lemon juice. 



Mix the first four ingredients in a small bowl. Add the 
eggs. Stir well with a small wooden spoon. Add the oil, 
a few drops at a time, stirring until it thickens. If by- 
chance you add too much oil, do not attempt to stir it 
all in at once, but take it up gradually. When the dress- 
ing is thick, thin it with a little lemon, then add oil and 
lemon alternately, and lastlj r the vinegar. When ready to 
serve, add half a cup of whipped cream, if }-ou like. The 
cream makes it whiter and thinner. The oil should 
thicken the egg almost immediately, and the mixture 
should be thick enough^to be taken up in a ball on 
the spoon, before adding the vinegar. Should the 
egg not thicken quickty, and have a curdled appearance, 
half a teaspoonful of the unbeaten white of egg or a few 
drops of vinegar will often restore the smooth consistency. 
Be careful not to use too much, as it will make the dressing 
thin. The dressing liquefies as soon as mixed with vege- 
tables or meat; therefore it shoulcTbe made stiff enough 
to keep in shape until used. Many prefer to use a Dover 



1 . 



^ 



312 The Boston Cook Booh 

egg-beater, and others succeed best with a fork. The 
mixture soon becomes too hard to use an egg-beater to 
advantage. Lobster coral, dried and pounded to a powder, 
will give a Mayonnaise a bright red color. Spinach green, 
green peas mashed, or chopped parsley will color it green. 
Never mix the Mayonnaise dressing with the meat or 
fish until ready to serve, and then only part of it, and 
spread the remainder over the top. 

Mayonnaise Tartare is simply the addition of chopped 
olives, pickles, parsley, capers, and onions to the May- 
onnaise. 

Lettuce Salad. — Pick over and wash each leaf with- 
out breaking. Shake off the water and drain in a net. 
Keep the lettuce in a cool place until ready to serve. 
Just before serving, dry between two towels. Arrange the 
leaves in a salad bowl, the larger leaves around the edge 
and the light ones in the centre. Serve with boiled dress- 
ing, or French dressing, or sugar, salt, and vinegar to 
taste. Lettuce should be served cool, fresh, and crisp. 
Never cut it, as that causes the leaves to wilt quickly. 
Tear them apart. 

Radishes or olives may be served with lettuce ; and 
when a brilliant effect is desired, garnish with a few nas- 
turtium blossoms. When lettuce is used with other mate- 
rials, never mix them until ready to serve. 

Dressed Celery. — Use only the white, crisp part of the 
celery stalks. The green parts may be made into a puree 
or used in soups. Scrape off the brown discolored part, 
and wash thoroughly. Keep in cold water, and when 
ready to serve, drain and arrange in a celery glass. Serve 
with salt. Or cut the celery in thin slices, moisten with 
French or Mayonnaise dressing, and garnish with lettuce, 
cresses, or celery leaves. Lettuce and celery may be 
served with the roast if desired. 

Cucumber Salad. — Cut off an inch from each end of 
the cucumber, and pare off a thick paring, as a bitter juice 
lies near the skin. Cut in thin slices, or shave with a 
vegetable cutter. Keep in cold water until ready to serve. 



The Boston Cook Book. 313 

Drain, and place in the bowl with ice. Serve with salt, 
pepper, and vinegar, or with a French dressing. Young 
onions thinly sliced are sometimes mixed with cucumbers. 

Cucumber and Tomato Salad. — Place a bed of crisp 
lettuce in a salad dish, then a layer of sliced cucumbers, 
then sliced tomatoes, and pour a French dressing, or a 
Mayonnaise, over the whole. Tomatoes peeled and cut 
into halves, and served with a spoonful of Mayonnaise 
on each half, make an attractive salad. 

Potato Salad. — One pint of cold boiled potatoes, cut 
in half-inch dice or shaved in thin slices, and seasoned 
with salt and pepper ; the yolk of one hard-boiled egg, 
one heaping tablespoonful of chopped parsley , half a cup 
of cold beet dice, and a French dressing. Put alternate 
layers of potato, beet, j'olk of egg, rubbed through a 
fine strainer, parsley, and French dressing, until the 
materials are all used. Have parsley and egg on the 
top, and leave half of the dressing for the last layer. 
Or arrange, the potatoes, parsley, and egg in the centre 
of the dish, then a circle of beets and lettuce around the 
edge, with French dressing sprinkled over the whole. 
Sliced onions, red cabbage chopped, capers, dice of 
turnips, and carrots cut into fancy shapes or rubbed 
through a strainer, may be used with potatoes for a 
salad. 

No. 2. — One pint of hot potatoes, mashed or cut in 
slices, half a cup of chopped cabbage, half a cup of 
chopped celery, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
one cucumber pickle, and one hard-boiled egg, chopped 
fine. Mix well, and add enough of Boiled Dressing 
No. 2 to moisten. Keep on the ice until ready to serve. 
Place two tablespoonfuh on a leaf of lettuce, and serve 
in the leaf. 

Many professional cooks prefer to mix a potato salad 
while the potatoes are hot, as the salad looks more 
appetizing, will keep longer, and have less of the soggy 
peculiar taste than when made with cold potatoes. 
Rubbing a cut onion or a little garlic round the salad 



314 The Boston Cook Book. 

bowl 18 sufficient where only a slight flavor of onion is 
desired. Vegetable salads are suitable for lunch or tea, 
or may be served as a course at dinner. 

Egg Salad. — Boil six eggs twenty minutes. Cut the 
whites in thin slices, or chop them very fine. Arrange 
a bed of creases on a dish. Make nests' of the whites, 
and put one whole yolk in the centre of each nest ; or rub 
the yolks through a fine strainer over the whites. Sprinkle 
a French dressing over the whole. Serve small balls of 
cottage cheese with the salad. 

Oyster Salad. — Steam or parboil one pint of oysters. 
Drain, cool, and marinate them with a French dressing. 
Serve with cresses, celery, or lettuce, and a Mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Fish Salad. — One quart of any kind of cold cooked 
fish, flaked and freed from bones and skin, and placed on 
a bed of lettuce. Pound the yolks of three hard-boiled 
eggs.saA three sardines (bones and skin removed) to a 
smooth paste. . Mix this paste with the Boiled or the 
Mayonnaise dressing, and pour it over the fish. Gar- 
nish with slices of lemon. 

Chicken Salad. — One pint each of cold boiled or 
roasted chicken and celery, or half as much celery as 



chicken. Cut the chicken into quarter-inch dice. Scrape, 
wash, and cut the celery in dice. Mix and marinate with 
a French dressing, and keep on the ice until ready to 
serve. Make a Mayonnaise dressing, and mix part of it 
with the chicken j arrange the salad in a dish, pour the 
remainder of the dressing over it, and garnish with celery 



The Boston Cook Book. 315 

leases and capers, or lettuce, and yolk of hard-boiled egg 
rubbed through a fine strainer. 

Lobster Salad. — Cut one pint of lobster meat in dice, 
season with a French dressing, and keep it ou ice until 
ready to serve, then mix with half of the Mayonnaise, 
dressing. Make nests or cups of the crisp lettuce leaves ,' 
break the poorer lettuce leaves and mix with the lobster. 



Put a large spoonful of the lobster in each leaf, with a 
tablespoonful of the Mayonnaise on the top. Garnish 
with capers and pounded coral, sprinkled over the dress- 
ing, and with lobster claws aud parsley round the edge. 

Salmo7i Salad. — Prepare in the same way with cooked 
or canned salmon, freed from bones, skin, and oil. 

Salad Sandwiches. — Mix a small quantity of Mayon- 
naise dressing with, finely chopped lobster or chicken. 
Cover a small slice of bread with lettuce, then the salad, 
lettuce, and bread again. Wrap them in tin foil or oiled 
paper, aud serve at picnics or when travelling. 



316 The Boston Cook Book. 



PASTRY AND PIES. 

Puff Paste, when skilfully made, is light and tender, 
and so delicate that it cannot be touched without crushing. 
It should be thoroughly baked, aud is therefore more suit- 
able for tarts and patties and the upper crust of pies. Eat 
it sparingly ; unless you have a good digestion, and exer- 
cise freely, never eat it. It is, however, less injurious 
than the ordinary pastry seen on many tables, as it con- 
tains no more shortening than much of the pastry made 
with a u guess measure" of lard. It .is not so much the 
amount of fat the paste contains that makes it indigestible, 
as the inferior quality of the fat, such as rancid butter or 
impure lard, or the soggy, greasy, half-cooked paste. 

Pastry that is light, diy, and flaky is more easily sepa- 
rated by the gastric fluids than that which is heavy.' Many 
housekeepers use lard in making pastry, as it is cheaper 
than butter, and makes a softer and more tender crust. 
Butter is more wholesome, and is preferable if you wish to 
make a brown crust. A mixture of half lard and half 
butter answers very well for common paste, but for puff 
paste butter alone should be used. In French receipts for 
puff paste eggs are considered essential, but there is no 
necessity for their use. 

It requires practice to make puff paste well ; and as 
there are so many other dishes more easily made and 
vastly more important, it is better not to waste time 
and strength upon it. Let your ambition as a house- 
keeper soar higher than perfection in making puff paste. 
But those who will have it may observe the following 
directions. 

Puff Paste. — One pound of the best butter, one pound 
of pastry flour, one scant teaspoonful of salt, about one 



The Boston Cook Booh 317 

cup of ice water. By measure, use one quart of flour and 
one pint of butter. Scald the bowl, then fill with cold 
water. Dip the hands into hot and then into cold water ; 
this makes bowl and hands smooth, and keeps the butter 
from sticking. Wash the butter, by working it in the cold 
water, till soft and waxy. Divide into four parts ; pat 
each part into a long and narrow piece, and wrap in a 
clean napkin. 

Have three shallow oblong pans that will fit the one into 
the other. Fill the largest and smallest of the pans with 
broken ice. Put the butter, covered with the napkin, into 
the other, and place it between the two pans of ice to 
harden. Mix the salt wit<h the flour, then break in one 
quarter of the butter. Rub with the tips of the fingers, 
and keep plenty of flour between the fingers and the but- 
ter. Many prefer to chop it, that the warmth ©f the hand 
may not soften the butter. When the butter and flour 
are well mixed, and fine and dry like meal, pour in the cup 
of ice water slowly. Mix with a knife, and cut, rather 
than stir. Wet only part of the flour at first and toss it 
to one side of the bowl, then wet another part ; and when 
it is all of the proper consistency, cut and mix it together 
till it can be taken up clean from the bowl with the knife. 
Add the last of the water cautiously, wetting only the dry 
flour, and use less or more than the cupful as the flour 
may require. If the butter be softened by the heat in 
rubbing, it will moisten the flour, and less water will be 
required. But it should not be allowed to soften. The 
mixture should be light and drj r , like separate minute 
crumbs of butter coated with flour. 

Use a large smooth rolling-board and a glass rolling- 
pin. Put half a cup of flour in the dredger, and sprinkle 
the middle of the board with a light coating of flour. Toss 
the ball of paste in the flour with a knife until floured all 
over, then pat with the rolling-pin into a flat cake an inch 
thick. Have the end of the board next you, that you may 
roll the paste the required length. Hold the handles of 
the pin firmly, and roll with a light quick stroke as far as 



318 The Boston Cook Book. 

your arms will allow, — the whole length of the paste, if 
possible, at every stroke. Do not attempt to roll the paste 
when it is in a ball or a cubical form, but pat it lightly, to 
make as large and flat a surface as possible before rolling. 
Roll out to the thickness of one third of an inch, and to a 
rectangular form. Lay one of the quarters of butter in a 
little flour on the corner of the board, and 'roll quickly into 
a long thin piece ; scrape it up with a knife, and lay along 
the middle of the whole length of the paste. Fold over 
one side of the paste, then the other, letting the edges just 
meet in the middle of the butter. Do not pat it down. 
Then fold each end to the middle and double again. Pound 
into a flat cake and roll again one quarter of an inch thick. 
Roll another piece of butter thin, lay it on the paste, fold 
the sides over, then the ends over, and then together, and 
repeat the process with the remaining pieces of butter. 
When the butter is all rolled in, the paste may be folded, 
patted, and rolled out, two, three, or seven times, as 3'our 
strength will permit. Twice is enough for pies, three or 
four times for patties ; but more are needed for a vol-au- 
vent. 

When the butter is of the right texture, fine, smooth, 
and firm, not dry and crumbly, and the mixing and rolling 
are done so quickly and deftly that the butter does not 
soften, the paste will not stick, and verj T little flour will be 
required in rolling. Do not strike a hard blow in rolling, 
nor press the paste down to the board, but roll with a 
light gentle stroke. When the paste does not slip along the 
board, you may know it is sticking, and it must be lifted 
at once, the board scraped clean, and floured slightly. 

Should the paste become soft and sticky, fold again, 
and pat it out to the size of the pan, and put it in the 
napkin between the two pans of ice. It will harden in ten 
minutes, and then may be rolled easily. After all the but- 
ter is in the dough, cut in two pieces, then roll and fold 
one, while the other is in the ice pan. Keep the board 
and pin wiped dry, and use only a little flour, but use 
enough to keep the paste from sticking. 



J 



The Boston Cook Book. 319 



Keep the edges even while rolling, and fold evenly, that 
there may be an equal number of layers in all parts. Each 
time the paste is folded over the butter a small amount of 
air is enclosed and is retained, unless the fold be patted 
down and allow the air to escape at the end. These bub- 
bles of air may be plainly seen when the ball of dough is 
patted and rolled out, and care must be taken not to let 
the air escape. For this reason roll lightly and always 
from you, as a hard motion back and forth is more liable 
to break the bubbles. Roll with a fan-like sweep, a little 
to the right and left, to widen it and keep the rectangular 
shape ; then roll gently on the edge nearest you, to make 
it of uniform thickness. The more of the bubbles you can 
retain in the paste, the lighter and more puffy it will be. 
The number of folds or layers of butter and paste makes 
the paste flaky, but the amount of air in it makes it rise 
and puff in baking. 

The paste should be folded and rolled till no streaks of 
butter can be seen. After the last rolling, place it on the 
ice to harden, as it may then be cut and shaped more 
easily. 

To Bake Puff Paste. — The dough should be icy cold 
when it is put into the oven. If the patties soften after 
being shaped, place them between the pans of ice till they 
are hard. The oven should be about as hot as for rolls, 
with the heat greater underneath, that the paste may rise 
nearly to its full height before browning ; then quicken the 
lire to brown the tops, and turn the heat from underneath 
or put a pan or grate under to prevent burning. If the 
oven be too hot, the paste will burn before it is risen ; if 
too slow, it will melt and spread. 

Fatty Shells, Tarts, Vol-au-vents, and other Forms of 

Puff Paste. 

There are two ways of shaping the paste for patties 
and tarts. First, roll puff paste one eighth of an inch 
thick, and stamp out circular pieces with a cutter, two and 



320 The Boston Cook Book. 

one half inches in diameter. With a smaller cutter stamp 
out the centres from half of these pieces, leaving rings half 
an inch wide. Dip the cutters in hot water, and cut 
quickly, that the edges may not be pressed together or 
cut unevenly. Rub a little white of egg on the top of 
the large rounds near the edge, put on the rings, and press 
them lightlj T to make them adhere, but be careful not to 
get any egg on the edges, as that will prevent them from 
rising. Put round pieces of stale bread, cut half an inch 
thick, in the centre, to keep the paste from rising and fill- 
ing the cavity. Bake on shallow pans lined with paper, 
and when done remove the bread and soft paste under- 
neath. Bake the small pieces cut from the centre on a 
pan by themselves, as they take less time for baking. In 
serving place them on the top of the shells for a cover. 

Another way is to roll the paste one fourth of an 
inch thick, cut with a round cutter, and then with the 
smaller cutter cut nearly through the centre of each round, 
making a rim half an inch wide. After baking remove the 
centre crust and soft part underneath, without breaking 
through, as then the shell will not hold any liquid mixture. 
Some persons prefer this method ; but there is less waste 
when cut in the first waj T , as the parts cut out may be 
baked for covers, and usuallj' prove to be the most delicate 
part of the paate. Or, if covers are not wanted, these cen- 
tres may be rolled out thinner, and used as bottom pieces. 

The paste for patties is usuallj' rolled one fourth of an 
inch thick and cut with a plain cutter. Two or three rims 
may be put on when a deeper shell is desired. Any kind 
of delicate cooked meat or fish (chicken, sweetbreads, 
oysters, lobster, etc.) may be cut into small pieces, and 
warmed in a thick cream sauce (see page 278), and served 
hot in patty shells, with a cover of the paste. 

Tarts are made thinner, and cut with a fluted cutter. 
They are filled with jelly or preserves, and served cold 
without a cover. 

Cupid's Wells. — Cut the rounds of puff paste of three 
or four different sizes ; use the largest one for the bottom, 



The Boston Cook Book. 321 

and cut the centres from the others, leaving the rims of 
different widths, and put them on the whole round, with 
the narrowest at the top. Bake, and fill with jelly. 

Vol-au-vent, — This is made from the lightest form of 
puff paste, cut to any size and shape desired, a large oval 
being generally preferred. Mark the outline with an oval 
mould or pan, and cut quickly with a knife dipped in hot 
water. Put on two or three rims, wetting the edge of each 
with white of egg. Make an oval hoop of stiff paper, two 
inches high, and slightly larger than the vol-au-vent, and 
place around it to prevent scorching. Bake a large vol- 
au-vent nearly au hour. 

Cakes a la Polonaise. — Rol puff paste very thin, cut 
into pieces three inches square, wet the centre, turn each 
corner over, press the point down in the centre, and put 
a very small round of paste on the centre. Bake, and 
when cool put dots of jelly on each corner. 



Via. «. Bow-Knofa. 

Bow-Knots. — Cut thin puff paste Into half-inch stripe, 
and shape them on the baking-pan into the form of n 
double bow-knot When baked, put jelly on each loop 
of the bow. 

Rissoles. — Roll the scraps of pnff paste thin, and cut 
into rounds. Put a spoonful of whatever material is to be 
nsed in the centre of half of the number, wet the edges, 
and cover with the remaining rounds, first cutting a cross 
in the middle, or stamping out a small piece with a vege- 
table cutter or pastry tube. Any kind of cold meat may 
be cut fine, seasoned to taste, moistened with a white 
sauce, and nsed in the rissoles. Or they may be filled 
with stewed and sweetened fruit, or mince meat prepared 
31 



322 



The Boston Cook Book. 



as for pies. They may be cut into larger rounds, the 
filling placed on one half, and the edges folded together 
like turnovers. Bake in a hot oven. 

Plaits. — Roll very cold puff paste thin, and cut into 
half-inch strips. Braid them together, and bake quickly. 

Cheese Straws. — Roll scraps of puff paste thin, 
sprinkle with grated cheese, and cayenne pepper if you 
like, fold, roll out, and sprinkle again, and repeat the 

process. Then place on the 
ice to harden. When cold, 
roll into rectangular shape 
one eighth of an inch thick ; 
place it on a baking-pan, and 
with a pastry cutter dipped 
in hot water, cut into strips 
four or five inches long and less than a quarter of an inch 
wide. Bake, and serve piled cob-house fashion. Some- 
times, when the paste is very hard, they are cut as narrow 
as possible, laid on the pan in groups of five or six, with 
one straw laid over the middle to represent a bundle of 
straws, and baked in that form. 




Fig. 48. Cheese Straws. 



Pies. 

For Pies, roll the puff paste out a quarter of an inch 
thick, then roll up, and cut from the end of the roll. Turn 
each piece on the side, so that the folds show in rings, and 
pat out flat, then roll to fit the plate. Keep the paste in a 
circular form, and roll evenly in every direction. Make 
slightly larger than the plate, as the paste shrinks when 
taken from the board, and should be fulled in rather than 
stretched to the required size. After a little practice it 
is just as easy to judge of the amount of paste required for 
one crust, and roll it in this way to fit the plate, as to roll 
so large a quantity that the edges have to be trimmed off 
and mixed with the remainder of the paste. Roll some of 
the paste, and cut into strips three quarters of an inch wide ; 
wet the under crust and place the rim on the edge. Use 
one rim for pies which are to be covered, and two, if you 



The Boston Cook Book. 323 



like, for pies without an upper crust. Fill the plate with 
the material to be used. Roll the upper crust larger than 
the plate, make a cut in the centre to let the steam escape, 
wet the rims, put the crust on the edge even with the 
rim and slightly fuller in the centre, to allow for shrinking 
in baking ; otherwise the crust, as it is forced up by the 
steam within, will draw away from the edge. 

Wet every spot of the rim and edge, and press closety 
but lightly together, to keep the juices from boiling out. 
All pies, meat pies especially, with a top crust should have 
several holes cut in the crust to let the steam escape. 
All fruit pies are better flavored if made with fresh, rather 
than stewed, fruits. If to be filled with juicy fruit, or 
cream, they are more wholesome prepared as follows: 
Bake the two crusts separately, stew the fruit, fill, and put 
the two together. Or fill with a mock filling of pieces of 
clean cloth, bake, remove the cloth, and just before serving 
fill with the prepared fruit 

Pies should bake from half to three quarters of an hour, 
or till brown. Use tin plates, as pies bake better on the 
bottom in them. No greasing is needed, and the pies 
should be changed to earthen plates as soon as done. 

Pastry for One Pie. — One heaping cup of pastry 
flow, one saltspoonful of baking-powder, one saltspoon- 
ful of salt, and from one third to one half of a cup of 
butter and lard mixed. Mix the baking-powder and salt 
with the flour, and rub in the lard. Mix quite stiff with 
cold water. Roll out, put the butter on the paste in little 
pieces, and sprinkle with flour. Fold over, and roll out. 
Roll up like a jelly roll. Divide in two parts, and roll to 

fit the plate. 

Cream Paste. — Mix half a teaspoonful of salt and 
half a saltspoonful of soda with one cup of cream, and 
stir in flour enough to mix to a stiff paste. Roll half 
an inch thick. Cut half a cup of butter into small pieces, 
and put it on the paste. Sprinkle with flour, fold and roll 
out thin ; roll up, cut a piece from the end, and roll to fit 
the plate. 



H 



324 The Boston Cook Booh 

Plain Paste. {Mrs. TiUon.) — Beat the white of 
one egg with one tablespoon/id of lard. Work it into one 
quart of flour with the hands, till fine as meal. Add 
about one cup of ice water. Roll out, and put half a 
pound of butter on the paste in little pieces, either all at 
once or half of it at a time. Dredge lightly with flour. 
Fold the edges over, roll up, pat, and roll out. 

Lemon Pie, No. 1. — Mix one heaping tablespoonful 
of cornstarch with one cup of sugar ; add one scant cup 
of boiling water, and boil five minutes. Add one tea- 
spoonful of butter, the juice of one large lemon, and one 
egg, well beaten. Bake between two crusts. 

No. 2. {Miss M. L. Clarke.) — Mix three table- 
spoonfuls of cornstarch, one saltspoonful of salt, and one 
cup and a half of sugar; add one pint of boiling water, 
and boil five minutes. Add the grated rind and juice of 
two large lemons. When slightly cooled, add the well- 
beaten yolks of four eggs, then the whites beaten stiff. 
Cut them in as for an omelet. Line the plate with crust 
and rim, add the filling, and bake about twenty min- 
utes. If desired, cover when cool with a meringue, made 
with the whites of three eggs and one third of a cup of 
sugar. 

No. 3. (Miss Hammond.) — Mix one cup and a half 
of sugar and two heaping teaspoonfuls of flour ; add the 
well-beaten yolks of six eggs and the whites of two eggs, 
beaten stiff, the grated rind of one and the juice of two 
lemo7is, and one cup of ice water. Line two plates with 
a crust and rim, fill, and bake in a moderate oven. Make 
a meringue with the whites of four eggs and one cup of 
powdered sugar. 

Chess Pie. — Beat the yolks of three eggs until light 
and thick ; add half a cup of fine granulated sugar, and 
beat again ; add one third of a cup of butter rubbed to a 
cream, and half a teaspoonful of vaniUa. Bake on a plate 
lined and bordered with puff paste. When done, cover 
with the whites of three eggs beaten stiff, and mixed with 
half a cup of powdered sugar and one teaspoonful of 



The Boston Cook Book. 325 

lemon juice. Brown slightly, and cut while hot, but serve 
cold. 

Apple Pie. — Cut sour apples in quarters, remove the 
cores and skins, and cut each quarter in two pieces 
lengthwise. Fill the plate, putting the pieces of apple 
round the edge in regular order, and piling slightly in 
the middle. Thej r will cook as quickly as when sliced, 
though many are unwilling to believe it. When the apples 
are dry, add a little water. Cover with crust without wet- 
ting the edges, and bake about half an hour. When done, 
boil three heaping tablespoonfuh of sugar and one of 
water five minutes. Add the grated rind of one quarter 
of a lemon, or one tablespoonful of lemon juice. When 
the pie is done, remove to an earthen plate, pour this syrup 
through a cut in the top, or raise the upper crust and 
pour it over the fruit, or simply sprinkle with sugar and 
bits of butter. To sweeten before baking, sprinkle half a 
cup of sugar, mixed with a little spice or grated lemon 
rind over the apple. Bind the edge of the crusts with 
a narrow strip of wet cloth, to keep in the syrup. Or wet 
the edge of the lower crust, sprinkle with flour; put on a 
rim, wet and flour that also ; fill with fruit, sweeten, put on 
the upper crust, and press the edges firmly together. 

Rhubarb Pie. — Peel the rhubarb, cut into inch pieces, 
pour boiling water over it, and let it stand ten minutes. 
Drain, fill the plate, sprinkle thickly with one cup of 
sugar, dot with bits of butter, cover with a crust, and 
bake. 

Squash Pie. — One cup and a half of stewed and 
sifted squash, not watery, but dry and mealy, one cup of 
boiling milk, half a cup of sugar, half a teaspoonful of 
salt, one saltspoonful of cinnamon, and one egg beaten 
slightly. Mix in the order given. Line a plate with 
paste, put on a rim, and fill with the squash. Pumpkin 
pies are made in the same way. 

Custard Pie. — Beat three eggs slightly, add three 
tablespoonfuh of sugar, one saltspoonful of salt, and one 
saltspoonful of nutmeg, if liked. Pour on three cups of 



326 



The Boston Cook Book. 



scalded milk; strain into a deep plate, lined with paste. 
Bake slowly, and the moment it puffs and a knife blade 
comes out clean, it is done. 

Berry Pies. — Pick over the berries and sprinkle 
slightly with flour ; add sugar to taste, — about one cup 
for a quart of fruit. Do not spoil the fruit flavor by 
using spices. Bake in a deep plate, with two crusts. 



Mince Meat for Pies. 



1 cup chopped meat. 
\% cup raisins. 
lj^ cup currants. 
lj^ cup brown sugar. 
3> 3 cup molasses, or 
1 cup granulated sugar. 
3 cups chopped apples. 

1 cup meat liquor. 

2 teaspoonf uls salt. 



2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon. 
% teaspoonf ul mace. 

% teaspoonf ul powdered cloves. 
1 lemon (grated rind and juice). 
j£ piece citron. 
^ cup brandy. 
J^ cup wine. 

3 teaspoonfuls rose water. 



Mix in the order given. Use enough of the meat liquor 
to make quite moist. Substitute one cup of cider for the 
wine and brandy, if you prefer. Cook it in a porcelain 
kettle until the apple and raisins are soft. Do not add 
the wine, brandy, and rose water until the mixture is 
cooked. One cup of chopped suet or Jialf a cup of butter 
may be added if preferred ; but if the fat on the meat be 
used, or the pies are to be eaten cold, suet is not needed. 
Meat from the vein or the lower part of the round that has 
a little fat and no bone is the best for pie meat. 

Plain Mince Pie. — One cup of chopped meat (cold 
steak or roast beef which has been simmered till tender), 
two cups of chopped apple, one teaspoonful each of salt, 
allspice, and cinnamon, one cup of brown sugar, half a 
cup of small whole raisins, half a cup of currants, mois- 
tened with one cup of cider, or one cup of sweet pickle 
vinegar, or half a cup of water, juice of one lemon, and two 
or three spoonfuls of any remnants of jeUy or preserve. 

Eccles Pie. (Miss Barnes.) — Two cups of seedless 
raisins and half a pound of citron, chopped very fine ; 



The Boston Cook Book. 327 



add one cup of sugar, the juice of one lemon, and a little 
water. Stew five minutes. Line small patty pans with 
puff paste, fill with the fruit mixture, cover, and bake. 

Fanchonnettes. — Line small patty pans with puff paste, 
rolled very thin; fill them with lemon prepared as for 
Lemon Fie, No. 1 ; cover with a thin crust, and bake 
quickly. Or fill them as directed for Lemon Pie, No. 2, 
and bake without an upper crust. 



328 The Boston Cook Book. 



PUDDING SAUCES. 



Hard Sauce (for Hot Puddings). 

j£ cup butter. I % teaspoonf ul lemon or vanilla, 

% cup powdered sugar. | or a little nutmeg. 

Bub the butter to a cream in a warm bowl ; add the 
sugar gradually, then the flavoring. Pack it smoothly in a 
small dish, and stamp it with a butter mould or the 
bottom of a figured glass. Keep it on ice till very hard. 
Or pile it lightly on a small fancy dish, and you may call 
it Snowdrift Sauce. 

Lemon Sauce. 



2 cups hot water. 
1 cup sugar. 

3 heaping teasp. cornstarch. 



Grated rind and juice of 1 lemon. 
1 tablespoonf ul butter. 



Boil the water and sugar five minutes, and add the corn- 
starch, wet in a little cold water. Cook eight or ten 
minutes, and add the lemon rind and juice and thfc butter. 
Stir until the butter is melted, and serve at once. If the 
water boil away and the sauce become too thick, add more 
hot water till of the right consistency. 

Whipped Cream Sauce. 

l.ctip cream. | % cup powdered sugar. 

1 teaspoonf ul lemon or vanilla. | White of 1 egg, 

# 

Mix the cream, vanilla, and sugar, and whip it without 
skimming off the froth. Add the beaten white of the egg 
and beat all together. Serve it on any pudding usually 
„ eaten with sugar and cream. 









-J 



The Boston Cook Book. 329 



Apricot Sauce. 

1 cup apricot juice. I 1 teaspoonf ul cornstarch or 

^ cup sugar. j flour. 

Boil all together five minutes and strain. Use any kind 
of fruit juice or syrup in the same manner. 

Creamy Sauce. 

}£ cup butter. I 2 tablespoonf uls wine, 

% cup powdered sugar, sifted. J 2 tablespoonf uls cream. 

Cream the butter ; add the sugar slowly, then the wine 
and cream. Beat well, and just before serving place 
the bowl over hot water and stir till smooth and creamy, 
but not enough to melt the butter. When the wine and 
cream are added, the sauce has a curdled appearance. 
This is removed by thorough beating, and by heating just 
enough to blend the materials smoothly. It is not intended 
to be a hot sauce ; and if the sauce become oily in heating, 
place the bowl in cold water and beat again until smooth 
like thick cream. Omit the wine if desired, and use half 
a cup of cream, and one teaspoonfvl of lemon or vanilla* 
Serve on any hot pudding. 

Foamy Sauce, No. 1. 

Whites of 2 eggs. I 1 cup boiling milk. 

1 cup sugar. I Juice of 1 lemon. 

Beat the whites of the eggs till foamy, but not dry ; add 
the sugar, beat well ; add the milk and lemon juice. 



J£ cup butter. 

1 cup powdered sugar. 

1 teaspoonful vanilla. 



Foamy Sauce, No. 2. 

2 tablespoonfuls wine, or fruit 

juice, or'tvrup. 
J^ cup boiling water. 
White of 1 egg beaten to a foam. 



Cream the butter; add the sugar, vanilla, and wine. 
Just before serving add the boiling water, stir well, then 
add the egg^ and beat till foamy. 



4 '_♦, 



330 The Boston Cook Book. 



Half a cup of jelly melted in one fourth of a cup of boil- 
ing water and poured into the butter and sugar mixture, 
makes a pleasing variety. 

Yellow Sauce. {Mrs. Toume.) 



J£ pound butter. 

J^ pound brown sugar. 

Yolk of 1 egg. 



1 gill brandy or Wine. 
A little nutmeg. 



Cream the butter, add the sugar, and stir over hot water 
till liquid, then add the yolk of the egg, beaten. Stir till it 
thickens ; add brandy or wine and nutmeg, and serve. 

Wine Sauce. 



legg. 

1 saltspoonf ul grated nn+meg. 

% cup wine. 



1 cup boiling water. 

1 tablespoonf ul cornstarch. 

J£ cup butter. 

1 cup powdered sugar. 

Wet the cornstarch in cold water, and stir into the boil- 
ing water. Boil ten minutes. Rub the butter to a cream ; 
add the sugar gradually, then the egg, well beaten, and 
the nutmeg. When the cornstarch has cooked ten min- 
utes, add the wine, and pour the whole into the butter, 
sugar, and egg, stirring until well mixed. 

Caramel Sauce. (Miss Parloa.) — Put half a cup of 
sugar in an omelet pan, and stir over the fire till melted 
and light brown. Add half a cup of "boiling water and 
simmer ten minutes. 

Molasses Sauce. — Mix one cup of molasses, the juice 
of one lemon or one tablespoonful of vinegar, half a salt- 
spoonful of salt, and one tablespoonful of butter. Boil 
ten minutes and serve with plain rice or apple pudding. 

Plain Pudding Sauce. (Miss Hammond.) — Melt 
one heaping tablespoonful of butter; add two tablespoon-^ 
fuls of flour, and one cup and a half of hot water. Cook 
as for drawn butter ; then add one cup and a half of 
brown sugar. Stir till the sugar is melted, add two tea- 
spoonfuls of lemon juice and a little nutmeg. 






The Boston Cook Book. 331 



HOT PUDDINGS. 



Cottage Pudding. 



2 heaping caps flour. 

2 teaspoonf uls baking-powder. 

% teaspoonf ul salt. 



% cup sugar. 

3 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

1 cup milk. 



Mix the salt and baking-powder with the flour. Beat 
the egg^ add the sugar, melted butter, and milk, and stir 
into the flour. Bake in a shallow dish. Serve with lemon* 
mne, or foamy sauce. 

Dutch Apple Cake. 

This is used as a pudding (see page 86). It is easily 
prepared, attractive, and delicious, served with lemon 
sauce. 

Scalloped Apple, or Apple Sandwich. 

Mix half a cup of sugar and half a saltspoonfuh of cin- 
namon or the grated rind of half a lemon. Melt half a 
cup of butter •, and stir it into one pint of soft bread crumbs/ 
prepare three pints of sliced apples. Butter a pudding- 
dish, put in a layer of crumbs, then sliced apple, and 
sprinkle with sugar ; then another layer of crumbs, apple, 
and sugar until the materials are used. Have a thick layer 
of crumbs on the top. When the apples are not juicy, add 
half a cup of cold water; and if not tart apples, add the 
juice of half a lemon. Bake about an hour. Cover at 
first, to prevent burning. Serve with cream. Ripe ber- 
ries and other acid fruits may be used instead of apples, 
and oatmeal or cracked wheat musff in the place of bread 
crumbs. 



33 2 The Boston Cook Book. 

Steamed Apple Pudding, or Dumpling. {Mrs. S. M Bailey.) 

Fill a two-quart granite pan two thirds full of sour apples 
cut into eighths, and add half a cup of water. Butter the 
edge of the pan and the inside of the cover.* Cover with 
a biscuit crust, made of one pint of flour ', two teaspoonfuh 
of baking-powder, and half a teaspoonful of salt; wet 
with one scant cup of milk, just stiff enough to roll out. 
Cover closely and steam one hour, or cook on top of the 
stove half an hour, with a trivet under the pan to keep the 
apple from burning. Serve at once with lemon or molasses 
sauce. Put a large round plate over the pan ; invert them, 
leaving the crust on the plate with the apples at the top. 
Cut like a pie. 

The crust may be shortened, the apples sweetened with 
molasses, and then baked in the oven; and it is called 
Pandowdy. 

Steamed Carrot Pudding. {Mr. Cole.) 



% pound flour. 

% pound chopped suet. 

% pound currants. 



% pound sugar. 

y z pound grated carrot. 

% teaspoonful salt 



Mix in the order given, and steam in a buttered mould 
three hours. Serve with wine sauce. 



Bread and Fruit Pudding. 

Soak one cup of stale bread crumbs in one pint of hot 
milk; add one tablespoonful of butter, one cup of sugar, 
one saltspoonful of salt, and one saltspoonful of spice. 
When cool, add three eggs, well beaten* Add two cups 
of fruit, either chopped apples, raisins, currants, canned 
peaches, or apricots, — one, or a mixture of two or more 
varieties. When using canned fruit, drain it from the 
syrup, and use the lattejr in making a sauce. Var}* the 
sugar according to the *fruit. Turn into a buttered pud- 
ding-mould, and steanf two hours. 

No. 2. — Beat the yolks of three eggs, add one cup and 



The Boston Cook Booh. 333 

a half of sugar, the grated rind and juice of one lemon, 
one scUtspoonful of salt, one cup each of chopped apples, 
currants, and grated bread crumbs. Mix well, then add 
the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff. Boil in a buttered 
pudding-mould three hours, or bake two hours. Serve 
with lemon or foamy sauce. 

Eve's Budding. — Add half a cup of butter or one cup 
of chopped suet to the preceding rule. 

Bird's-Nest Pudding. 

Six or seven apples, cored and pared, and put into a 
buttered pudding-dish. Mix Jive teaspoonfuls of flour and 
one teaspoonful of salt, wet it to a smooth paste with cold 
milk, and add the yolks of three eggs, well beaten, then 
the whites, and more milk, using one pint in all. Pour it 
over the apples, and bake one hour. Serve with hard or 
creamy sauce. 

Apple Tapioca Pudding. 

Pick over and wash three quarters of a cup of pearl 
tapioca. Pour one quart of boiling water over it, and 
cook in the double boiler till transparent ; stir often, and 
add half a teaspoonful of salt Core and pare seven 
apples. Put them in a round baking-dish, and fill the 
cores with sugar and lemon juice. Pour the tapioca over 
them and bake till the apples are very soft. Serve hot or 
cold, with sugaf and cream. A delicious variation may 
be made by using half pears, or canned quinces, and half, 
apples. 

/ Apple MeVingue. 

Cocrf pare, and bake seven apples, on a shallow plate, 
till $oft, but not till broken. Beat the yolks of three eggs; 
a$ft three tablespoonfuls of sugar, a little salt, and ont 
Jnnt of scalded milk. Pour it over the baked apples. 
L jif till the custard is firm. When cool, add a mdringue 
m:t«ty *'*the whites of three eggs, beaten till foamy ; add 
thrU tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar gradually, flavor 



L 



334 ^^ Boston Cook Book. 

with lemony and beat till stiff. Set the pudding-dish on a 
board in the oven, and brown the meringue. The whites 
of eggs for a meringue should be cool, and beaten till light 
and foamy, but not stiff ; then add sugar gradually, in the 
proportion of one tablespoonful for each egg, and bleat till 
stiff enough to keep its shape. 

No. 2. — Pare and core the apples, fill the cavity with 
sugar and spice mixed, or with sugar, butter, and lemon,. 
Bake the apples, cover with a meringue made with the 
whites of the eggs ; make the yolks into a boiled custard 
for a sauce, or serve with cream. This may be served hot 
or cold. Brown the meringue by holding a hot stove cover 
over it. 

.Apple Porcupine. 

Arrange eight or ten apples (baked as in the preceding 
rule, or cored, pared, and cooked carefully in syrup, see 
Compote of Apples) in a mound on a dish for serving. Put 
quince jelly among the apples. Cover with a meringue 
made of the whites of four eggs and half a cup of pow- 
dered sugar. Stick blanched almonds into the meringue. 
Put the dish on a board in the oven, and brown slightly, 
or hold a hot iron over it. Serve with boiled custard 
sauce. 

Friar's Omelet. 

Steam tart apples, mash, and drain quite dry. Take 
one pint of the pulp, and mix with it the yolks of three 
weUrbeaten eggs, one cup of sugar, and the juice of half 
a lemon / then add the beaten whites. Brown one cup of 
soft, fine bread crumbs in one tablespoonful of butter in 
an omelet pan. Butter a plain mould thickl}* with cold 
butter, and sprinkle over the bottom and sides as many of 
the browned crumbs as will adhere. Fill with the prepared 
apple ; cover with buttered crumbs, and bake twenty min- 
utes. When cold, turn out on a platter, and serve with 
cream. It may be baked in a pudding-dish, and eaten 
hot. 




The Boston Cook Book. 335 

Apricots a la Neige. 

Boil one cup of rice fifteen minutes, or steam till tender 
(see page 307). Wring small pudding-cloths (one third 
of a yard square) out of hot water, and lay them over a 
«mall half-pint bowl. Spread the rice one third of an inch 
thick* over the cloth. Put an apricot in the centre, filling 
the cavity in each 
half-apricot with 
rice. Draw the 
cloth around till 
the apricot is 
covered smooth- 
ly with the rice. # fjq. u , App ie snowballs. 
Tie tightly, and 

steam ten minutes. Remove the cloth carefully, and turn 
the balls out on a platter, and serve with apricot sauce. 
This amount $f rice will make four or five balls. Apples, 
cored and pared, may be substituted for apricots. They 
should be steamed half an hour. These are more whole- 
some than apple or fruit dumplings, made with a flour 
crust. They are called Apple Snowballs. r 

Plain Rice Pudding. * 

Half a cup of well-washed rice, half a cup of sugar, 
a little salt, and one quart of milk. Soak half an hour. 
Bake about two hours, slowly at first till the rice nas soft- 
ened and thickened the milk ; then let it brown slightly. 
This is creamy and delicious, though it is often called 
Poor Man's Pudding. Serve hot or cold. 

No. 2. — Three tablespoonfuls of rice, a little salt, three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, one quart of milk, and three sour 
apples, pared and. quartered, or one cup of small, whole 
raisins. Put all into a deep pudding-dish, .well buttered. 
Cover, and bake slowly four or five hours, till the milk is 
all absorbed and the rice is red or colored. Serve hot 
with butter. * " .*,* -> 

'■ + *v 



336 The Boston Cook Book. 



Rice and Fruit Pudding. 

Steam one scant cup of rice in two cups of boiling 

water, in the double boiler, thirty minutes. Add, while 

hot, one tablespoonful of butter^ one scant teaspoonful of 

salt, one beaten egg, and half a cup of sugar. Cook five 

minutes. Butter a plain pudding-mould, sprinkle it with 

bread crumbs, or line with macaroons. Put in a layer of 

rice half an inch thick, then a lajer of apricots or peaches 

v or pineapple, then rice, fruit, etc. , till the mould is full, hav- 

> ing crumbs on the top. Bake twenty minutes in a mod- 

\ erate oven. Turn out on a platter, and serve with boiled 

custard flavored with vanilla, or with an apricot sauce. 

Bice Souffle. 

Boil half a cup of rice in one quart of boiling salted 
water fifteen or twenty minutes, and drain it. Put the 
rice in the double boiler with one pint of milk, cook ten 
minutes ; add the yolks of four or six eggs beaten with 
four or six taUespoonfuls of powdered sugar and one 
tablespoonful of butter. Cook five minutes, and set away 
to cool; add half a teaspoonful of vanilla or lemon. 
Half an hour before serving, beat the whites of the eggs 
stiff, and cut them lightly into the cooked mixture. Bake 
in a well-buttered pudding-dish half an hour. Serve im- 
mediat^y with creamy sauce. 

* ' Bice Custard. 

Soak half a cup of cold cooked rice in one pint of hot 
milk till every grain is distinct. Add the yolks of two 
eggs, beaten with a quarter of a cup of sugar and a pinch 
of salt, and cook like soft custard. , While still hot, stir 
in the whites, beaten stiff, and set away to cool. Or turn 
the hot custard into a dish, and when cool cover with 
a meringue of the whites. Brown slightly, and serve 
di cold. 



j 



The Boston Cook Book. 337 



Custard Souffle. (Miss Parloa.) 

Rub two scant tablespoonfuls of butter to a cream ; add 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, and pour on gradually one 
cup of hot milk. Cook eight minutes in the double boiler, 
stirring often. Separate the yolks and whites of four 
eggs, and put the whites away in the ice-chest. Beat the 
yolks, add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and add to the 
milk, and set away to cool. Half an hour before serving, 
beat the whites stiff, and cut them in lightly. Bake in a 
buttered pudding-dish in a moderate oven thirty minutes, . 
and serve at once with creamy sauce. This mixture may 
be put into buttered paper cases, and baked ten or fifteen 
minutes. Serve in the papers. 

Sponge Pudding. (Miss Alice Walcott.) 



*£ cup sugar. 

J£ cup flour. 

1 pint milk, boiled. 



% cup butter. 
Yolks of 5 eggs. 
Whites of 6 eggs. 



Mix the sugar and flour, wet with a little cold milk, and 
stir into the boiling milk. Cook until it thickens and is 
smooth ; add the butter, and when well mixed stir it into 
the well-beaten yolks of the eggs,. then add the whites 
beaten stiff. Bake in cups, or in a shallow dish, or in 
paper cases, in a hot oven. Place the dish in a pan of 
hot water while in the oven. Serve with creamy sauce. 

Bread Pudding. 

One pint of fine stale bread crumbs, soaked one hour in 
one quart of milk. Beat two eggs ; mix one quarter of 
a cup of nugar, one teaspoonful of salt, one saltspoonful 
ofyiutmeg or cinnamon, and one tablespoonful of softened 
butter. Stir into the eggs, and then stir all into the milk. 
Bake one hour in a buttered pudding-dish. 

Add one cup of raisins, and you have a Plum Pudding. 
The raisins should be first boiled, at least one hour, in 
water to cover, till plump and soft, as they will not cook 

22 



L 



I' 

r 



. <»• 



m, 



> 



V. 



1 



338 7%e Boston Cook Book. 



sufficiently in the baking. Four eggs may be used when 
a richer pudding is desired. And this becomes the Queen 
of Puddings by leaving out the whites, and after baking 
spreading a layer of jam over the top, then a meringue of 
the whites, and browning slightly. 

French Bread Pudding. — Butter small thin slices of 
nice bread, spread with apple jelly, and lay them loosely 
in a quart pudding-dish, filling it about half full. Pour 
over them one quart of boiled custard, and cover with a 
meringue. Brown the meringue and serve cold. Or put 
the prepared bread in a buttered mould lined with maca- 
roons, cover with the custard, steam one hour, and serve 
hot 

Plymouth Indian Meal Pudding. (Mrs. Faunce.) 

Mix one cup of yellow corn meal, on* cup of molasses, 
and one teaspoonful of salt. Pour on one quart of boiling 
milk, add one tablespoonful of butter, three pints of cold 
milk, and one cup of cold water, or two eggs. Bake in a 
deep, well-buttered pudding^dish, holding at least three 
quarts. Bake very slowty seven or eight hours. Do not 
stir, but cover with a plate if it bake too fast. One cup 
of currants may be used to give variety. 

Baked Indian Meal Pudding (made quickly). 

Boil one quart of milk.* Pour it gradually on three 
tablespopnfuls of granulated Indian meal. Put it back 
in the double boiler, and boil one hour, stirring often. 
Then add one heaping tablespoonful of butter, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, half a cup of molasses, two eggs, and one 
quart of cold milk. Mix well, pour into a well-buttered 
dish, and bake one hour. Eat with cream or butter. 

Whole-Wheat Pudding. (Miss Helen Spaulding.) 

Mix two cups of whole-wheat flour, half a teaspoonful 
of soda, and half a teaspoonful of salt. Add one cup of 
milk, half a cup of molasses, and one cup of stoned and 
chopped raisins, or one cup of ripe berries. Steam two 



J 



The Boston Cook Book. 



339 



hours and a half, and serve with cream or an}' plain 
pudding sauce. One cup of dates, figs, stewed prunes, or 
chopped apple makes a pleasing variety. This is an 
economical pudding, wholesome for children and invalids 
when served with cream, and rich enough to suit any one 
when served with creamy or foamy sauce. 

Steamed Fruit Pudding. 



1 pint flour. 

2 teaspoonf uls baking-powder. 
V£ teaspoonful salt. 

1 cup milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 



2 eggs, 

}£ cup sugar. 

1 pint berries, or ripe fruit or cut 

small, or 
1 cup raisins, stoned and halved. 



Mix the baking-powder and salt with the flour ; add the 
milk and melted butter. Beat the yolks of the eggs, add 
the sugar, and beat them well into the dough. Then add 
the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff; and then the fruit, 
well rolled in flour. Steam two hours, and serve with 

lemon or foamy sauce. 

* 

Steamed Suet and Fruit Pudding. 



2% cups flour. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

% teaspoonful salt. 

1*2 saltspoonf ul cinnamon. 

% saltspoonf ul nutmeg. 



1 cup chopped suet, or 

% cup butter. 

1 cup chopped raisins or currants. 

1 cup water or milk. 

1 cup molasses. 



Sift the soda, salt, and spice into the flour, rub in the 
butter, and add the raisins. Mix the milk with the 
molasses, and stir it into the dry mixture. Steam in a 
buttered pudding- mould three hours. Serve with foamy 
sauce. 

If water and butter be used, three cups of flour will be 
required, as these thicken less than*mt7& and suet. This 
pudding is sometimes steamed in small stone cups. 

Cabinet Pudding. 

Butter a melon mould, and decorate it with candied 
fruit, or with raisins boiled till soft and seeded ; then put 



L 



34° The Boston Cook Book. 



in a layer of lady fingers or stale sponge cake, then a 
few pieces of fruit, and repeat till the mould is nearly full. 
Pour one pint of boiling milk into the yolks of three eggs, 
beaten with three tablespoon/ids of sugar and half a salt- 
spoonful of salt. Pour over the cake in the mould. Set 
the mould in a pan of warm water on the back of the stove 
half an hour, then bake one hour, keeping it in the pan of 
hot water. Or steam it one hour. Serve hot with wine 
or foamy sauce. 

Six macaroons or six cocoanut cakes may also be used, 
and the custard may be flavored with wine. 

I Christmas Plum Pudding. (Mrs. J. M. Towne.) 

\ One pint and a half of grated bread crumbs (soft, not 

k dried), one pint of chopped suet, one pint and a half of 

currants and stoned raisins mixed, half a cup of citron 
* shaved thin, one scant cup of sugar, half a teaspoonful 

of salt, half a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg ', fioe eggs, 

tmo we?i tablespoonfuls of flour, made into a thin batter 
f with milk, and half a glass of brandy. Mix in the order 

given, and boil or steam four hours. Serve with yellow 

sauce. 



Thanksgiving Plum Pudding. (Mrs. S. M. Bailey.) 

Six butter crackers, rolled fine, and soaked in three 
pints of milk. Cream one quarter of a cup of butter with 
one cup of sugar ; add half a teaspoonful of salt, one 
teaspoonful of mixed spice, and six well-beaten eggs. Stir 
it all into the milk, and add one pound of the best raisins. 
Bake in a deep pudding-dish, well greased with cold 
butter. Bake very slowly in a moderate oven three or 
four hours. Stir several times during the first hour, to 
keep the raisins from settling. Make half of this receipt 
and steam it in a pudding-mould. Butter the mould, and 
line it with macaroons. 






The Boston Cook Book. 341 



CUSTARDS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS. 



Irish Moss Blanc-Mange. 

% cup Irish moss. I 1 saltspoonf ul Bait. 

1 quart milk. I 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla. 

Soak the moss in cold water fifteen minutes ; pick over, 
wash, tie in a lace bag, and put it into the double 
boiler with the milk. Boil until the milk thickens when 
dropped on a cool plate. Add the salt ; strain and flavor. 
Mould in small cups or in egg-shells. Break off a piece 
as large as a ten-cent piece on one end of the egg-shell, 
pour out the egg, rinse the shells, stand them upright in a 
pan of meal, and fill with the blanc-mange. Serve blanc- 
mange with sugar and cream, also with apple or grap§ 
jeUy ; or put half a peach or any candied fruit in the bot- 
tom of the cup before filling. 

Blanc-mange may be made by using one tablespoon^ 
ful of sea-moss farina. Stir it into the boiling milk, 
and cook twenty minutes. Or use three tablespoonfuls of 
Becker's farina in the same way. Cornstarch and gela- 
tine are often used, but they are neither palatable nor 
nutritious without eggs. 

Chocolate Budding. — Use the same proportion of moss 
and milk as in the preceding rule. Put one square of 
chocolate in a saucepan with two tablespoonfuls each of 
sugar and water. Stir, and boil until smooth ; add a little 
of the milk, until thin enough to pour easily, then mix it 
well with the remainder of the milk. Add the moss, and 
boil till thick. 



The Boston Cook Book. 



Banish Pudding, or Fruit Tapioca. 

% cup pearl tapioca. I % cup sugar. 

\% pint boiling water. % tumbler currant jelly. 

1 saltspoonf ul salt. [ 

Pick over and wash the tapioca. Put it in the double 
boiler with the boiling water, and -cook one hour, or till 
soft and transparent, stirring often. Add the salt, sugar, 
and currant jelly. Stir till the jelly is all dissolved. Pour 
into a glass dish, and keep on ice. Serve very cold with 
sugar and cream. Haifa cup of lemon juice, or any acid 
fruit syrup, or one cup o? canned apricot, peach, or quince, 
may be used instead of the jelly. Or, in summer, use one 
berries, or any small fruits,' adding more sugar 

tdding. — Cook one quart of ripe berries or 
:Aes or apricots with one pint of water, and 
.te, till the fruit is well scalded. Skim out the 
dish for serving. Wet one scant cupful of 
'ated wheat Jlour in a little cold water, stir it 
ing syrup ; cook ten minutes, and pour it over 
>erve very cold with cream. 

Boiled Custard. 



■ouluts sugar. 

 milk. Beat the yolks, add the sugar and 
>at well. Pour the hot milk slowly into the 
hen well mixed pour all back into the double 
tir constantly till smooth and thick like cream. 
when cool add the flavoring. Do not stir the 
3 hot milk, as there is danger of curdling, and 
le egg will be left in the bowl. Scalding the 
s the process, so that less stirring is required. 
V thick enough, the foam on the top disappears, 
itard coats the spoon ; but the surest test a 



The Boston Cook Booh 343 



given by the sense of feeling. You are conscious that the 
custard is thicker by the way the spoon goes through it. 
Do not leave the custard an instant ; take it off as soon as 
it is smooth, as it will thicken in cooling, and curdles 
quickly if cooked a moment too long or if left in the boiler. 
Have a fine strainer placed in a bowl or pitcher before you 
begin to cook the custard, that you may strain it quickly. 
Boiled custard, when to be used as a sauce, should be 
thin enough to pour ; when to be served as a custard, it 
should be cooked a moment longer, to make it thicker. 

Four or even jive eggs to a pint of milk may be used 
"when a rich custard is desired. But three are sufficient 
for nearly all purposes. 

Boiled custard is much smoother when only the volks of 

f V V 

the eggs are used. Many combinations may be made by 
adding the whites of the eggs after the custard is cold. 
Beat the whites stiff, put them on a sieve, and cook over 
steam, or pour boiling, water through them. The water 
will cook and stiffen the egg, and when well drained it may 
be piled in rock}' form on the custard. Or the white may 
be poached by dipping it by the spoonful into boiling milk. 
Serve the custard in a large glass dish, and pile the white 
in a mass, or put spoonfuls of it here and there on the cus- 
tard, with bright-colored jelly on the white ; or serve in 
small glass custard cups with the white and jelly on the 
top. Or pour r the custard over slices of sponge cake 
(soaked in wine, if j^ou prefer) , and cover with a meringue 
of the whites sweetened and flavored. Floating Island, 
Flummery , Tipsy Pudding, and hosts of other dishes 
are only fancy names given to the different combinations 
of cake, boiled custard, and me'ringue. 

Any q£ the following ingredients may be used as flavor- 
ing ; this will give a variety of dishes, which want of space 
prevents us from giving as separate receipts : half a square 
of chocolate, melted ; the three tablespoonfuls of sugar 
melted to a caramel before mixing with the yolks ; one cup 
of grated cocoanut, or cocoanut cakes crumbled ; six mac- 
aroons soaked in wine; one cup of chopped almonds or 



344 The Boston Cook Book. 



any of the varieties of candied fruits; four oranges, 
peeled, seeded, and cut fine ; one pint of any canned fruit ; 
one pint of lemon, wine, or orange jeUy, cut in cubes. 
Or color the meringue pink by beating three tablespoon- 
fuls of bright-colored jelly with the whites ; or brown it 
with a salamander or hot poker, or by putting the dish 
on a board in the oven. 



Baked or Steamed Custard. 

1 quart milk. i 6 tablespoonf uls sugar. 

6 egg 8 - I 1 saltspoonf ul salt. 

•Scald the milk. Beat the eggs ; add the sugar and salt, 
then the scalded milk. Strain, add a little nutmeg, and 
bake about twenty minutes in a deep dish or in cups set 
in a pan of warm water ; or steam in a bowl or in cups. 
Test the custard with a spoon ; if it come out clean, the 
custard is done. 

Caramel Custard. 



^ cup sugar. 

2 tablespoonf ul 8 water. 

1 quart milk. * 



6 eggs. 

% teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful vanilla. 



Put the sugar in an omelet pan, and stir until it melts 
and is light brown ; add the water, and stir into the warm 
milk. Beat the eggs slightly, add the salt and vanilla and 
part of the milk. Strain into the remainder of the milk, 
and pour into a buttered two-quart mould. Set the mould 
in a pan of warm water, and bake thirty to forty minutes, 
or till firm. Cut into the middle with a knife ; if it come 
out clean, the custard is done. Serve cold with caramel 
sauce. 

Delicate Pudding. 



1 cup water. 

1 cup fruit Juice. • 

3 tablespoonf uls cornstarch. 



% saltspoonf ul salt. 
Sugar to taste. 
3 eggs. 



Boil the water and fruit juice (orange, lemon, or canned 
cherries, quince, or apricot). Wet the cornstarch in a little 



The Boston Cook Book. 345 



cold water y stir into the boiling syrup, and cook ten min- 
utes. Add the salt and sugar to taste ; the quantity de- 
pending upon the fruit. Beat the whites of the eggs till 
foam} 7 , and stir into the starch. Turn at once into a 
mould. Serve cold with a boiled custard sauce made with 
the yolks of the eggs. 

Apple Snow. 

3 large tart apples. I % CU P powdered sugar. 

• 8 eggs (whites). | % cup jelly. 

Stew or steam the apples (cored and quartered, but not 
pared), drain, and then rub them through a hair sieve. 
Beat the whites of the eggs stiff, add the sugar, beat again ; 
add the apple, and beat till like snow. Pile lightly in a 
glass dish, garnish with jelly or holly leaves. Serve with 
boiled custard. 

* Tapioca Cream. 



1. 



•2 saltspoonful salt. 
Whites of 2 eggs. 
% teaspoonf ul vanilla. 



2 tablespoonf uls pearl tapioca. 
1 pint milk. 
Yolks of 2 eggs. 
Y^ cup sugar. 

Soak the tapioca in hot water enough to cover it, in the 
top of the double boiler placed on the back of the stove. 
When the water is absorbed, add the milk, and cook until 
the*tapioca is soft and transparent. Beat the yolks of the 
eggs, add the sugar and salt. Pour the boiling mixture on 
them, and cook two or three minutes, or till it thickens like 
boiled custard. Remove from the fire, add. the whites of 
the eggs, beaten to a foam. Stir well, and when cool 
flavor. Do not try to mould it, as it is more delicate when 
soft. 

Jellies and Fancy Dishes made with Gelatine, Custard, 

and Cream. 

Gelatine, as now obtained, is refined and clarified during 
the process of manufacture, and this renders it unnecessary 
to use the white of egg in making jellies, as was required 



346 The Boston Cook Book. 



when using the old preparation of isingla© j and gelatine. 
Much of the strength and flavor of y ,; °s is lost in clearing 
them with eggs. Cox's gelatine makt - a clear jell}', but it 
softens slowly and requires a strong flavoring like wine 
or lemon to disguise the fishy taste. Nelson's and Knox's 
gelatines are of fine quality, soften quicklj', have an agree- 
able flavor, and are well adapted to creams and other deli- 
cate dishes. Knox's is unusually pure, being made from 
calves' heads. 

Never cook gelatine. Soak (not dissolve) it in cold 
water, in the proportion of one cup of cold water to one 
box of gelatine. It will soften in fifteen minutes, if stirred 
often. Then dissolve in boiling liquid, — either water, 
milk, or custard, — and always strain through a fine 
strainer after it is dissolved. 

Gelatine Pudding, or Spanish Cream* 



J£ box gelatine. 
J£ cup cold water. 
% cup boiling water. 
Yolks of 3 eggs. 
8 table8poonf uls sugar. 



% saltspoonf ul Bait. 
1 pint milk. 
Whites of 3 eggs. 
1 teaspoonf ul vanilla. 



Soak the gelatine in the cold water till soft, then dis- 
solve it in boiling water. Make a custard with the yolks 
of the eggs, beaten, and mixed with the sugar and salt 
Pour on the hot milk, and cook in the double boiler till 
it thickens. Then add the strained gelatine water, the 
vanilla^ and the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff. Mix all 
well, and turn into moulds wet in cold water. Place in ice 
water, and when hard and ready to serve turn out on a 
dish. 

Italian Cream. — Use the same proportions as in the 
preceding receipt. Dissolve the soaked gelatine in the hot 
custard instead of in hot water, and strain the whole while 
hot into the beaten whites. When well mixed, add lemon 
or vanilla, and pour into a mould. 

Quaking Custard. — The same proportions as in Span- 



*\ 



j 



The Boston Cook Book. 347 



ish Cream. Dissolve the soaked gelatine in the hot cus- 
tard, and strain into a mould. When ready to serve, 
beat the whites of the eggs stiff, add three heaping table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and the juice of one lemon. 
Turn the custard on a platteff and heap the meringue 
around it. 



Snow Pudding. 



3^ box gelatine. 
J£ cup cold water. 
1 cup boiling water. 
1 cup sugar. 
J^cup lemon juice. 
Whites of 3 eggs. 



Yolks of 3 eggs. 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

% saltspoonf ul salt. 

1 pint hot milk. 

^ teaspoonf ul vanilla. 



Soak the gelatine in the cold water fifteen minutes, or 
until soft. Then dissolve it in the boiling water ; add the 
sugar and lemon juice. Stir till the sugar is dissolved. 
Strain into a large bowl, and set in ice water to cool. Stir 
occasionally. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
and when the gelatine begins to thicken, add the beaten 
whites, and beat all together till f ery light. When nearly 
stiff enough to drop, pour into a mould. Or beat until 
stiff enough to hold its shape, if your strength will allow, 
and pile lightly in a tall glass dish. Make a boiled custard 
of the yolks of the eggs, the sugar, salt, and milk, and when 
cool flavor with vanilla. Serve the sauce in a pitcher. Or, 
if the snow be moulded, turn it out on a dish, and pour the 
sauce around the pudding. The snow may be turned into 
a shallow dish, two inches deep, to harden, and when ready 
to serve cut into blocks and piled like a pyramid. Blocks 
of lemon or wine jelly, mixed with the snow or sparkling 
jelly (jelly broken up lightly with a fork), make a pleasing 
variety. If the whites of the eggs be added to the gelatine 
mixture before it becomes cold, as is directed in many re- 
ceipts, more time will be required for the beating. Many 
have never made the dish a second time on account of the 
time and strength expended. Fifteen minutes is sufficient 
when made according to this receipt. 



1 

L. 



The Boston Cook Booh 



Orange Charlotte. 

V£ box gelatine. i Juice of 1 lemon. 

J^ cup cold water. 1 cop orange juice and pulp. 

J^ cup boiling water. Seggs (whites). 

1 tup sugar. | 

Line a mould or bowl with lady fingers or sections of 

oranges. Soak the gelatine in cold water till soft. Pour 

on the boiling water, add the sugar and the lemon juice. 

Strain and add the 

orange juice and 

pulp with a little of 

the grated rind. 

Cool in a pan of 

ice water. Beat 

the whites of the 

eggs stiff, and when 

the orange jelly be- 

gins to harden beat 

It till light. Add the beaten whites, and beat together till 

stiff enough to drop. Pour into the mould. 

One pint of whipped cream may be used instead of the 
whites of the eggs, or it may be piled on the top after the 
Charlotte is removed from the mould. 

Apple Charlotte. — One cup of cooked sour apple 
(steamed, drained, and sifted) may be used iu place of 
the orange in the preceding receipt. Line the mould with 
lady fingers or sponge cake, and serve a boiled custard, 
made with the yolks of the eggs, as a sauce. 

Or use one cup of canned peach, pineapple, or apricot, 
or one pint of fresh strawberries or raspberries. Mash 
and rub the fruit through a sieve before using. 





Fruit Charlotte. 


^ box gelatine. 




1 pint orange juice and* 


% cup cold water. 




1 cup water. 


1 cup sugar. 




Yolks of 4 eggs. 


\% cup water and 




Whites of 4 eggs. 


1 cup lemon juice, 




1 dozen tad/ fingers. 



The Boston Cook Booh 349 

Soak the gelatine in cold water till soft. Make a syrup 
with the sugar and fruit juice. When boiling, pour it 
into the beaten yolks of the eggs. Stir well, and cook in 
a double boiler till it thickens. ^Tdd the soaked gelatine, 
stir till dissolved, and strain at once into a granite pan 
placed in ice water. Beat occasionally till cold, but not 
hard. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and 
then beat all together till it thickens. When almost stiff 
enough to drop, pour at once into "moulds lined with cake. 
Keep on ice, and serve with or without powdered sugar 
and cream. Vary the fruit by stewing one pint of canned 
peaches, pineapple, or apricots in one cup each of sugar 
and water till soft, then sift, add the yolks of the eggs, 
and gck\ till it thickens. Add the gelatine, strain, and 
when cool add the whites. Grated pineapple will not 
require sifting. 

Velvet Cream. (Miss Ward.) 



1)4 cup sugar. 
\% pint cream. 



% box gelatine. 

\% cup sherry wine. 

1 lemon (grated rind and juice). 

Soak the gelatine in the wine, add the lemon and sugar, 
and heat all together till the gelatine is dissolved. Then 
strain and set it away to cool. When nearly cold, but 
before it begins to stiffen, add the cream. Beat till nearly 
stiff enough to drop, then pour it into moulds and set it on 
ice until stiff as blanc-mange. 
# 



Wine Jelly. 



% box gelatine. 
% cup cold water. 
1 pint boiling water. 



Juice of 1 lemon. * 

1 cup sugar. 

1 cup sherry or S. M. wine. 



Soak the gelatine in cold water fifteen minutes, or until 
soft. Add the boiling water, lemon juice, sugar, and 
wine. Stir well, and strain through a fine napkin into a 
shallow dish. Keep in ice water till hard. When ready 
to serve, cut in cubes or diamonds, or break it up lightly 



35° The Boston Cook Book. 

with a fork. If j-ou wish to mould it, or to use for mould- 
ing creams, add only two thirds of a pint of boiling 
water. 



Orange Jelly. 



% box gelatine. 
% cup cold water. 
1 cup boiling water. 



Juice of 1 lemon. 

1 cup sugar. 

1 pint orange juice. 



Soak the gelatine in cold water until soft. Add the 
boiling water, the lemon juice, sugar, and orange juice. 
Stir till the sugar is dissolved, and strain. Or use one cup 
of orange juice and one scant pint of boiling water, one 
lemon, one scant cup of sugar, and two tablespoonfuls 
of brandy. 



Lemon Jelly. 



J£ box gelatine. 

1 scant cup cold water. 

1 pint boiling water. 



1 cup sugar. 

% cup lemon juice (large). 

1 square-inch stick cinnamon. 



Soak the gelatine in the cold water till soft. Shave the 
lemon rind thin, using none of the white. Steep it with 
the cinnamon in the pint of boiling water ten minutes, then 
add the soaked gelatine, sugar, and lemon juice, and when 
dissolved strain. 

Italian Jelly, or Fruit Moulded in Jelly. 



% box gelatine. 
% cup cold water. 
Rind and juice of 1 lemon. 
1 scant cup boiling water. 



1 cup sugar. 

1 pint orange juice. 

1 cup fruit. 




Soak the gelatine in the cold water till soft. Shave the 
rind of the lemon, using only the yellow part, and soak with 
the gelatine. Pour on the boiling water ; add the sugar, 
lemon juice, and orange juice. Strain through a fine 
napkin into a pitcher, or something from which it can be 
poured. Wet a mould in cold water, and pack it in a pan 
of ice. Put in a layer of jelly half an inch deep and 
harden it, then a layer of candied fruit or sections of 



i % 



The Boston Cook Book. 351 

oranges, fastening each piece of fruit in place with a little 
jelly before adding enough to cover the fruit, otherwise the 
fruit will float. Repeat till the mould is full. Place the 
pitcher where the jelly will keep liquid but not hot, and be 
sure that every piece of fruit is firmly in place before add- 
ing more. This may be made with lemon or wine jelly. 

A variety of designs may be made by arranging different 
colore of fruit; and it well repays one for the trouble, 
which seems very alight after the first attempt. Do not 
devote your whole morning to it, but look at it oeeasion- 
allj' while you are doing other things, adding fruit and jelly 
as required ; and before you are conscious of it, the dish 
will be prepared. 

Orange Baskets. — Cut as many oranges as will be re- 
quired, leaving half the peel whole for the baskets, and a 
strip half an inch wide for the' handle. Remove the pulp 



and juice, and use the juice in making orange jelly. Place 
the baskets in a pan of broken jce to keep upright. Fill 
with orange jelly. When ready to serve, put a spoonful 
of whipped cream oyer the jelly in each basket. Serve in 
a bed of orange or laurel leaves. 

No. 2. — With a vegetable cutter cut out several small 
portions of the peel in the basket and handle, to give an 
open-work effect, and fill with a mixture of orange, wine, 
and lemon jelly, cut into inch dice and piled lightly in the 
baskets. Or the baskets may be filled with Bavarian 
cream. 

Orange Sections. — Cut off a small portion from the 
end of the orange, and scoop out the pulp and juice. Be 
careful not to break through the skin. Fill them with 



352 The Boston Cook Book. 



orange jelly which is thoroughly cold, but not hard, and 
place them upright in a pan of broken ice. When hard, 
cut each orange in quarters, and serve garnished with 
green leaves. 

Imperial Cream. 

Make the rule for Lemon Jelly (page 350), and color part 
of it pink with cochineal or cranberry juice. Harden it in 
a shallow pan. Make Snow Pudding (page 347) , and when 
nearly stiff enough to drop, stir in small squares of the 
pink and lemon jelly. Mould, and when ready to serve, 
turn out on a dish, garnish the base and top with maca- 
roons soaked in wine. Pour rich boiled custard round the 
dish, and put macaroons and cubes of the jellies in the 
custard. 

Whipped Cream. 

Many wholesome, delicious, and attractive dishes may 
be made with whipped cream. To those who can obtain 
plenty of cream, these dishes afford a cheaper, more 
easily prepared, and far more satisfactory course than 
pie and many forms of hot puddings. Many of them 
are equalty suitable for tea. Very rich cream 'should be 
diluted and well mixed with an equal quantity of milk. 
The* best quality of cream obtained from the milkman is 
usually of the proper consistency. Thin cream will become 
liquid after whipping, and thick cream will turn to butter. 
The cream should always be icy cold ; when it is to be 
served as a garnish, or for cream whips, it should be 
sweetened and flavored before it is whipped. 

A whip churn is the best utensil for whipping cream. 
This is a tin cylinder, perforated at the bottom and sides, 
and having a perforated dasher. When the churn is placed 
in a bowl of cream, and the dasher worked up and down, 
the air is forced from the cylinder into the cream, causing 
it to become light and frothy. A Dover egg-beater will 
make the cream light, but it has a different consistency 
from that obtained by churning. . 



/ J 



The Boston Cook Book. 



353 



To Whip Cream. — Place a bowl half filled with cream 
in a pan of broken ice. When very cold, put the churn into 
the cream, hold the cylinder firmly, and keep the cover in 
place with the left hand. Tip the churn slightly, that the 
cream may flow out at the bottom. Work the dasher with 
a light short stroke up, and a hard, pushing stroke down. 
When the froth appears, stir it down once or twice, as the 
first bubbles are too large \ and when the bowl \q full of 
froth, skim it off into a granite pan placed on ice. Take 
off the froth only, and do not take it off below the holes 
in the cylinder, as it whips better when they are covered. 
For this reason never whip a pint of cream in a three- 
quart bowl, and do not try to whip it all, as usually a little 
is left in the bowl which is too thin to whip. 

One pint of cream should treble in whipping. If for a 
garnish, drain the whipped cream on a hair sieve placed 
over a pan, and keep it on ice till stiff enough to keep it 
shape. Creams that are to be moulded are made stiffef 
by the addition of gelatin? 



Cream Whips. {Miss Ward.) 



1 pint rich cream. 

1 cup pale sherry wine. 

1 lemon (grated rind and juice). 



% cup sugar. 

Whites of 2 eggs, beaten light 



Mix in the order given. Add more sugar if desired. 
Stir till the sugar is dissolved, then whip it and take off 
the froth as it rises, and put it on a hair sieve. Fill jelly 
glasses with the cream left in the bowl, and put the froth 
on the top". 

Newport Whips. {Mrs. Vpham.) — One pint of cream, 
sweet or sour, one gill of sweet milk, half a lemon sliced, 
sugar and wine to taste. Whip, and serve the whip only, 
in jelly glasses. If prepared in a covered bowl or tureen, 
the unwhipped cream may be kept for several days, add- 
ing more cream, sugar, and wine to taste, and whipping 
as required for use. 

23 



354 Th& Boston Cook Book. 



Charlotte Russe (Cream). 



1 pint rich cream. 
1 teaspoonf ul vanilla. 



% cup sugar. 
Sponge cake. 



Mix the cream, vanilla, and sugar. Place the bowl in 
ice water, and when chilled whip to a stiff froth, and skim 
off the froth into a sieve. Drain, and whip again that 
which has drained through. When nearly all whipped, 
line a glass dish with lady fingers or sponge cake, fill 
with the cream, put cubes of wine jelly or any bright 
jelly on the cream, and keep on ice till ready to serve. 

Charlotte Russe, No. 2 (Cream and Eggs). 



1 pint rich cream. 
1 teaspoonful vanilla. 
1 tablespoonful wine. 



Whites of 2 eggs. 

1 cup powdered sugar. 

Sponge cake. 



Flavor the cream with vanilla and wine, and whip to a 
stiff froth. Beat the whites of the eggs stiff, add the pow- 
dered sugar, and mix it lightly with the whipped cream. 
Keep it on ice till it stiffens. Line small cups or paper 
moulds with sponge cake, and fill with the cream. Or fill 
fancy paper cases with cream, and ornament each with thin 
triangles of sponge cake and a cube of wine jelly. 

A small part of the cream may be colored with meltel 
chocolate or cochineal, and used for decoration. 

Charlotte Russe, No. 3 (with Gelatine). {Miss Parloa.) 



34 box gelatine. 
J^ cup cold water. 
1 pint cream. 
1 dozen lady fingers. 



Y % cup powdered sugar. 
1 teaspoonful vanilla 
1 tablespoonful wine. 
J£ cup boiling water 



Soak the gelatine in the cold water till softened. Chill 
the cream. Line a three-pint mould with lady fingers or 
narrow slices of sponge cake, crust side out ; leave a 
little space between the slices, and have the cake even at 
the top. Whip the cream, and skim off into a granite 



* 




The Boston Cook Book. 355 

pan set in ice water. Sift the powdered sugar over the 
tv hipped cream, and add the vanilla and wine. Dissolve 
the gelatine in the boiling water, and strain through a 
fine strainer over the whipped cream. Then stir (not 
beat) rapidly with the bowl of the spoon resting on the 
bottom of the pan. Turn the pan with the left hand while 
stirring with the right. If it feel lump}', h^ * ne P an 
from the ice and place it in warm water to melt the gela- 
tine. Stir till the gelatine is well mixed with the cream, 
and when nearly stiff enough to drop, turn it into the 
mould. Keep on ice, and when ready to serve, turn out 
and garnish the top with jelly. 

This filling may be used in paper cases as directed in 
No. 1. 



Plain Bavarian Cream. 



^ box gelatine. 
^ cup cold water. 
1 pint cream. 



Y z cup sugar. 

1 teaspoonf ul vanilla. 



Soak the gelatine in cold water till soft. Chill and 
whip the cream till j'ou have three pints of the whip. 
Boil the remainder of the cream (or if it be all whipped, 
use a cup of milk) with the sugar ; and when boiling add 
the soaked gelatine. Stir till dissolved. Strain into a 
granite pan, add the vanilla or lemon, and wine if you 
wish ; or flavor with two tablespoon/vis of melted choco- 
late, or one quarter of a cup of strong coffee. Place the 
pan in ice water, stir occasional^, and when the mixture 
is thoroughly cold and beginning to thicken, stir in lightly 
the whipped cream. When nearly stiff enough to drop, 
pour into the moulds. 

This cream is sometimes moulded in small cups. 
Put half of a canned apricot or peach, or three sections 
of orange, or several small cherries, or a candied plum, 
in the bottom of the cup before filling with Uie cream. 
Or line a bowl with whole strawberries and fill with the 
cream. This is called a Strawberry Charlotte. Red ha* 
nanas sliced may be used in the same manner. 



356 



The Boston Cook Book. 



Biz a V Imperatrice. — Prepare the cream as for Bava- 
rian Cream ; put one cup of cooked rice in the hot milk, 
and stir till every grain is distinct, then proceed as directed 
in the preceding receipt. 

Bavarian Cream; No. 2 (with Eggs). 



%, box gelatine. 
% cup cold water. 
1 pint cream. 
1 pint milk. 
4 eggs (yolks). 



% cup sugar. 
% saltspoonf ul salt. 
1 teaspoonful vanilla 
1 tablespoonf ui wine. 



Soak the gelatine in cold water till soft Chill and whip 
the cream till you have three pints. Keep the whipped 
cream on ice, and boil the remainder of the cream, adding 
enough milk to make a pint in all. Beat the yolks of the 
eggs, and add the sugar and salt. Pour the boiling milk 
on the eggs, and when well mixed put back in the 
double boiler and cook about two minutes, or just enough 
to scald the egg. Stir constantly, add the soaked gela- 
tine, and strain at once into a pan set in ice water. 
When cool, add the vanilla and wine, or half a cup 
of orange juice. Stir till it begins to harden, then stir in 
quickly the whipped cream, and when nearly stiff enough 
to drop, pour into moulds wet in cold water. 

Chocolate Bavarian Cream. — Melt two sticks of 
sweetened chocolate, and stir them into the custard before 
straining. 

Coffee Bavarian Cream. — Add one quarter of a cup 
of very clear, strong black coffee. Or boil half a cup of 
ground coffee in the milk, before straining it over the 
eggs. 

Bavarian Cream with Fruit. 



1 quart berries. 
1 cup sugar. 
% box gelatine. 



% cup cold water. 
% cup boiling water. 
1 pint cream. 

Strawberries or Raspberries. — Mash the berries with 
the sugar ; let them stand till the sugar is dissolved. Strain 
through a sieve fine enough to keep back the seeds. Soak 



The Boston Cook Book. 357 

the gelatine in the cold water, then dissolve iu the boiling 
water, and strain it into the berry juice. Cool, and beat 
till slightly thickened ; add the cream (whipped), and mould 
it in a plain mould, or lined like a Charlotte. 

Pineapple. — Stew a can of grated pineapple with one 
cup of sugar ten minutes, and use in the same manner 
without sifting. 

Peaches and Apricots. — Mash and sift one can of 
peaches or apricots (use juice and fruit), and stew with a 
heaping cup of sugar, and use as above. 

Norfolk Cream. — Line a mould with one pound of can- 
died plums, having first removed the stones, and spread 
the plums out as thin as possible. Make the plain Bava* 
rian cream, and when thick enough to drop, take out one 
third of it and color with cochineal/ add half a cup of 
candied cherries cut in halves. Put a layer of the white 



Flo. 47. Honld or Bavarian Cream garnished with Whipped Cream and Pnilt 

cream next to the plums, and fill the centre with the pink. 
When ready to serve, loosen the edges with a knife and 
invert carefully. Garnish with whipped cream. 

Mock Canteloupe. — Mould the yellow Bavarian cream 
in a melon mould lined with lady fingers, and when ready 
to serve, turn out on a dish and sprinkle the top of the 
cream thickly with chopped pistachio nuts, or any green 
fruit, plums, or angelica. Garnish with whipped cream 
and candied fruit. 

Prune Pudding. (Mrs. A. A. Lincoln.) — Make a 
small mould of lemon jelly. Boil large selected prunes 
slowly until very tender, taking care to keep the skins 
unbroken. Drain and place in a glass dish. Break up 



358 The Boston Cook Book. 

the jelly all about them, so that it will have the appearance 
of being made together. Pile whipped cream, prepared as 
for Charlotte Basse, Ho. 1, over the prunes and jelly. 

Creme Diplomate. {Miss M. L. Clarice.) 

% boi gelatine. I 4 eggs (whiles) 

> 2 cup cold water. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

1 pint cream. j 1 tabic spoonful wine. 

% cup iugar. | 1 cup French fruit. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water. Chill and whip the 
cream. Boil the cream left in the bowl with milk enough 
to make a pint in all. Add the sugar, and when boiling 
add the soaked gelatine. Stir until dissolved, and strain 
it into the well-beaten whites of the eggs. Add the vanilla, 
and the wine, if you approve. Stir well, and when slightly 
thickened add the whipped cream. When stiff enough to 
drop, add the French fruit. Mould it, and garnish with 
wine jelly, fruit, and green leaves. Or add one pint of 
blanched almonds or pistachio nuts, chopped fine, instead 
of the fruit 



Combinations of Jolly, Cream, Custard, and Cake. 

Royal Diplomatic Padding. {Miss Parloa.) — Make 

lemon, orange, or wine jelly, using only two thirds of a 

pint of boiling water, that it may be stiff enough to mould. 

Strain it into a 

pitcher. Place a 

two-quart mould 

in a. pan of ice 

water; pour in 

jelly half an inch 

fio. M. Roy»i Dipi^ttio Pudding. deep. When hard, 

put in candied 

fruit in some fanciful design. Cut cherries in halves, and 

cut plums to represent leaves, and arrange them like a 

cluster of cherries ; or cut the cherries smaller, and design 

a branch of barberries. Fasten each piece of fruit in place 



The Boston Cook Book. 359 

with a few drops of the liquid jell}', and when hard add 
jelly to cover the fruit. When this is hard, place a smaller 
mould in the centre on the jelly and fill with ice. Pour 
the remainder of the jelly between the two moulds, adding 
it slowly, and dropping in fruit here and there, if you 
choose, until the mould is full. When the jelly is all firm, 
remove the ice, and add warm, not hot, water to the 
smaller mould, and take it out carefully, without breaking 
the wall of jelly. Fill the space with a Bavarian cream 
(page 356). Make a rich soft custard with the yolks of 
five eggs, half a cup of sugar, and a pint of milk; strain, 
and flavor with vanilla. When ready to serve, dip the 
mould in warm water, put a dish over it, and invert dish 
and mould together. Remove the mould carefully, and 
pour the soft custard around the pudding. Make the soft 
custard while the jelly is hardening ; and do not put the 
materials for the Bavarian cream together until the small 
mould is removed from the jell}-, and the cavity ready for 
the cream. Do not turn out of the mould until just before 
it goes to the table, as the slightest jarring breaks the 
jell}*. A coffee cup within a quart bowl, and a small pail 
within, a larger one, have been successfully used by those 
who had no moulds. 

A variety of dishes may be made by using the differ- 
ent colored jellies and fruits ; and any of the creams stiff 
enough to mould can be used as filling. Snow Pudding* 
or Creme Diplomate and Wine Jelly, Norfolk Cream 
and Lemon Jelly, Orange Sponge and Orange Jelly, are 
attractive combinations. It may also be made in two sizes 
of small moulds, serving one mould to each person. 

Cdteau St. Honore. — Line a pie plate with thin puff 
paste, prick with a fork, and bake light brown. Make a 
cream cake paste (see Index) , press it through a pastry 
bag round the edge of a jelly cake;, tin, and bake the re- 
mainder in balls the size of walnuts. Place the puff paste 
on a plate, and spread with raspberry jam or orange mar- 
malade. Lay the border of cream cake paste on the edge, 
and press it into the marmalade. Fil 1 the centre with any 



360 The Boston Cook Book. 

kind of Bavarian cream. Garnish with the cream cake 
balls and fruit. Use orange sections with orauge marma- 
lade, and candied cherries and plums with raspberry jam. 

Sponge cake or feather cake, baked thin in a round till 
plate, is more delicate than puff paste as a foundation for 
the gateau. 

Gateau de Princess Louise. — Bake sponge drop mix- 
ture ox feather cake or snow cake in jelry cake tins. Cut 
the centre from one cake, leaving a rim one inch and a 
half wide. Put jelly on the remaining cake, lay the rim 
on the edge, and fill the centre with Bavarian cream. 
Garnish with candied fruit. Frost the rim if yon prefer. 

Chantilly Baskets. — Dip the edges of soft flexible 
macaroons in syrup, prepared as for crystallized fruit, and 
form them into a basket on a fancy plate, something as 
children shape a burr basket. A rim and handle of paste- 
board aid in keeping the shape. When dry, fill with any 
fancy Bavarian cream. 



The Boston Cook Booh 361 



ICE-CREAM AND SHERBET. 

A good ice-cream freezer should be in every kitchen ; 
for with it a great variety of wholesome and attractive 
dishes may be prepared with very little expenditure of 
time and strength. Fruit, cream, and eggs, when frozen, 
are more palatable in hot weather than when served in 
other ways. A deep can, four inches in diameter, with a 
tight cover fitting outside the can, and packed in a firkin 
with ice and salt, makes a good substitute for a freezer. 
By scraping the cream from the sides and beating occa- 
sionally with a large bread-knife as the cream freezes, one 
may have a very smooth quality of cream with very little 
effort. 

But whether with a patent or home-made freezer, the 
essential points are to have the ice finely crushed, to use 
the right proportion of coarse rock salt, and to beat the 
mixture thoroughly during the freezing. Salt has a great 
affinity for water, and when mixed with broken ice it 
unites with the water ; the ice, in changing from its solid 
form to a liquid, parts with its heat, and the mixture of 
melted ice and salt is many degrees colder than the ice 
alone. This is sufficient to reduce to the freezing-point 
the temperature of any liquid placed in the ice and salt. 
The finer the ice is crushed, the quicker it melts ; and the 
more the mixture is stirred, the sooner all parts become 
chilled. The melted ice and salt should surround the can, 
and not be drawn off as fast as melted. For this reason 
it is a mistake to have the outlet for the water in the bot 
torn of the firkin. It should be just below the top of the 
can, and then the water will run out before it can get in- 
side the can. Draw it off whenever it floats the ice. The 
ice should be nearly as fine as the salt. Use one part 



362 The Boston Cook Book. 

salt to three or four parts ice. 'An easy way is to measure 
each with a saucer or small shallow pan. Put in a laj-er 
of ice three inches deep (pack it in solidly) , then a meas- 
ure of salt (sprinkle it evenly on the ice) , then three meas- 
ures of ice and one of salt, etc., till the freezer is full. 
Pack each laj-er in closely with a wooden paddle, and turn 
the freezer handle occasionally while packing. Be sure that 
the freezer works perfectly before adding the cream. The 
bearings and gears should be kept well oiled. When the 
cream is thoroughly cold, pour it into the can. Turn slowly 
at first, and after ten minutes more rapidly, till you can 
turn no longer. It usually takes about half an hour. Re- 
move the beater, scrape off the cream, and beat and pack 
the cream closely in the can. Put a cork into the opening 
in the cover, and la} T the cross-piece over to keep the can 
down in the ice. Cover with a piece of old carpeting wet 
in the salt and water. If the ice and salt have been well 
packed, and the cream is to be served within an hour and 
not moulded, no more ice will be needed ; but if to be 
kept longer, draw off the water and pack again. If to be 
moulded, beat the cream well, and pack into the mould; 
cover closely, and bury in ice and salt. 

After using the freezer, clean and scald the can ; dry 
thoroughly, and keep it uncovered while not in use. Drain 
the salt left in the freezer, and use again. A mixture of 
salt and snow answers when ice cannot be obtained. Use 
Turk's Island or coarse rock salt, and not what is called 
coarse fine salt. 



2 cups sugar. 

? tablespoonfuls vanilla. 



Ice-Cream, No. 1 (Philadelphia Ice-Cream). 

2 quarts cream ; if thick, add 
1 pint milk. 

This is the simplest, and to many the most delicious, 
form of ice-cream. Scald the cream ; melt the sugar in it, 
and flavor when cool. Freeze as directed above. The 
cream should be very sweet and highly flavored, as both 
sweetness and flavor aie lessened by freezing. To make 
it lighter and more delicate, whip the cream until you have 



The Boston Cook Book. 363 

a quart of froth, and add the froth after the cream is partly 
frozen. Many prefer to add the whites of eggs, beaten 
till foamy, but not stiff. Use two, three, or four eggs to 
each quart of cream. The proportion of sugar should vary 
according to the flavoring used. 

Ice-Cream, No. 2 (Neapolitan Ice-Cream). 



1 quart milk. 

(6 or 8 eggs yolks). 

1 cup sugar. 



1 pint to 1 quart cream. 
Sugar to taste. 
Flavoring. 



Make a boiled custard with the milk, sugar, and the 
yolks of the eggs. Cook it slightly till smooth, but not 
curdled. Strain, and when cool add the cream, sugar to 
make it quite sweet, and any flavoring desired. The cus- 
tard, when made with cream instead of milk, makes the 
richest kind of ice-cream. If cream cannot be obtained, 
beat the whites of the eggs till foamy, and add them just 
before freezing. No matter how many eggs are used, a 
little cream, if not more than half a cupful, is a decided 
improvement to all ice-creams. It is better to make sher- 
bet, or fruit and water ices, than an inferior qualit} 7 of ice- 
cream with milk. Ice-creams are richer and mould better 
when made with gelatine ; but care must be taken to flavor 
highly, to disguise the taste of the gelatine. Use a quarter 
of a box of Nelson's gelatine for two quarts of custard. 
Soak in half a cup of cold milk, and dissolve in the boiling 
custard just as it is taken from the fire. If by any acci- 
dent the custard should curdle in cooking, it will be smooth 
when frozen. 

Ice-Cream, No. 3. (Miss Parloa.) 



1 pint milk. 

1 cup sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. 
1 saltspoonf ul salt. 



2 eggs. 

1 pint to 1 quart cream. 

J£ to 1 rup sugar. 

1 tablesp. flavoring extract. 



Boil the milk. Mix the sugar, flour, and salt ; add the 
whole eggs, and beat all together. Add the boiling milk, 



364 The Boston Cook Book. 

and when well mixed turn into the double boiler, and cook 
twenty minutes, stirring constantly till smooth ; after that, 
occasionally. When cool, add the cream, flavoring, and 
sugar to make it quite sweet. This makes a smooth and 
delicious cream ; arid if the milk be boiling and the custard 
cook fully twenty minutes, there will be no taste of the 
flour. 

The following flavorings, with either of these receipts 
for a foundation, will give a great many varieties of 
ice-cream. 

Vanilla Ice- Cream. — Use one tablespoonful of Foss* 
extract or one heaping tablespoonful of the pounded 
vanilla bean sugar. 

Lemon Ice- Cream. — One tablespoonful of lemon 
extract. 

Chocolate Ice- Cream. — Melt two bars of sweetened 
vanilla chocolate with one or two tablespoonfuls of water ; 
add a little cream or custard, and when smooth stir it into 
the remainder of the custard. Add half a tablespoonful 
of vanilla. Confectioners sometimes mix half a teaspoon- 
ful of Ceylon cinnamon with the chocolate. It gives a 
rich, spic} T flavor. 

Coffee Ice- Cream. — Make half a cup of very strong 
black coffee for two quarts of cream ; or boil half a cup 
of ground coffee in the milk. 

Caramel Ice- Cream. — Add half a cup of caramel (see 
page 134), and omit part of the usual amount of sugar. 

Pineapple Ice- Cream. — Add half a can of grated pine- 
apple or one pint of the ripe fruit, grated. 

Strawberry Ice- Cream. — Sprinkle sugar over the ber- 
ries ; mash, and rub through a fine sieve. Measure the 
juice, and use one pint of juice to two quarts of cream or 
custard. Add more sugar as the berries require. Use 
the French bottled strawberries when the ripe fruit cannot 
be obtained. 

Banana Ice -Cream. — Make a custard with one pint 
of milk) one cup of sugar, and two eggs. When cold, 
add one pint of cream, and six bananas, sifted, or cut in 



J 



The Boston Cook Booh 365 

thin slices. Add a little lemon juice if the bananas lack 
flavor. 

Baked Apple Ice -Cream, — Bake and sift six sweet 
apples. Add one quart of rich cream, and sugar to taste. 
When the sugar is dissolved, freeze. 

Pistachio Ice- Cream. — One cup of pistachio nuts, and 
one quarter of a cup of almonds, blanched, chopped, and 
pounded to a paste. Add this to any receipt for ice-cream. 

Macaroon, Almond, Walnut, Cocoanut, or Brown 
Bread Ice- Cream may be made by adding one pint of 
either of the above ingredients to any receipt for ice- 
cream. Crumble the macaroons and cocoanut cakes, and 
brown them slightty ; dry, crumble, and sift the brown 
bread, and chop the nuts fine. 

Fruit Ice - Cream. — Canned fruit, or ripe fruit sweet- 
ened to taste, and cut into small pieces, may be added to 
partly frozen cream, giving many delicious varieties. Use 
peaches, strawberries, raspberries, pineapples, apricots, 
or cherries. 

Cafe Barf ait. — One pint of cream, one cup of sugar, 
half a cup of strong, clear coffee. Mix, chill, and whip. 
Take the froth off into a freezer or into a mould. Pack 
the mould in ice and salt, and let it stand two hours with- 
out stirring. 

Glac$ Cream. — Boil one cup of sugar and one scant 
cup of water until the syrup forms into a ball when rubbed 
in water between the finger and thumb. Then pour this 
syrup in a fine stream into the whites of three eggs beaten 
stiff, and beat till stiff and cool. Stir it into any frozen 
cream, made with a little less than the usual amount of 
sugar. 

Ice -Cream with Condensed Milk. — Mix one can of 
condensed milk with three pints of scalded milk, and use 
in making a rich custard, as directed in rule No. 2. Flavor 
highly, and add a pound of candied fruit if desired. 

Tutti Frutti. — Make either of the receipts for ice- 
3ream, and flavor with two tablespoonfuls of Sicily Ma- 
deira wine or Maraschino. When partly frozen, add one 



356 The Boston Cook Book. 

pound of French candied fruity cut fine. Use a mixture 
of cherries^ plums, apricots, pineapples, pears, strawber- 
ries, and. angelica root. Or use home-made preserves* 
carefully drained from the syrup, and cut into dice. 

Nesselrode Budding. — Shell one pint of chestnuts. 
Blanch, and boil half an hour, then mash to a pulp, and 
stir into ice-cream made from rule No. 2. Strain, and 
when partly frozen add one pint of mixed fruit, cut fine. 

Frozen Budding. — Make ice-cream, No. 3 ; add two 
tablespoonfuls of soaked gelatine, flavor with wine and 
vanilla, and freeze. Cut a pound of French fruit or 
brandy peaches in small pieces ; or use half a pound of 
mixed raisins, currants, and citron, and one cup of mac- 
aroons, pounded, or one cup of mixed almonas s.nd pista- 
chio nuts, pounded fine. Wash, and soak the currants and 
raisins until swollen. Remove the seeds, drain and quarter 
the raisins, and shave the citron in small thin slices. Mix 
half the fruit and nuts with the frozen cream. Butter a 
melon mould slightly, and line with lady fingers ; then 
sprinkle over a layer of mixed fruit, pack in the frozen 
cream nearly to the top, then a layer of fruit, and cover 
with cake. Cover closely, and bind a strip of buttered 
cloth round the edge of the cover. Pack in ice and salt 
for two hours. When ready to serve, dip quickly in warm 
water, and turn out carefully. Sprinkle the remainder of 
the mixed nuts over the top, and garnish with cream, 
sweetened, flavored, and whipped. Some prefer to serve 
a rich boiled custard sauce, made with one pint of cream, 
the yolks of four eggs, half a cup of sugar, and one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. 



Plombiere. (Miss Ward.) 



1 quart milk. 
1 pint cream. 
6 whole eggs. 
3 egg yolks. 



\% cup sugar. 

2 ounces each of preserved cit- 
ron, greengages, and pine- 
apple, cut fine. 



Boil the milk and cream, and pour it on the beaten eggs 
and sugar. Cook slightly, and when cool add the fruit, 
and freeze. 



The Boston Cook Boohs 367 

- . _ I, 

Hombe Glace. — Line a mould or the freezer with one 
quart of raspberry or pomegranate sherbet. Pack the 
sherbet round the bottom and sides of the mould one inch 
deep. Fill the centre with Bavarian cream, or Charlotte 
Husse cream, or Creme Diplomate. Cover with the sher- 
bet, and pack in ice and salt one hour. 

Biscuit Glace. — Ice-cream and sherbet are often served 
in small, fancy paper cases, which may be obtained at a 
confectioner's. Make and freeze the cream, and fill the 
paper cases with two kinds, either sherbet and plain ice- 
cream, or sherbet and tutti frutti, or Charlotte Russe cream 
and sherbet, or ice-cream. Pack the cases in a freezer, 
and keep on ice and salt till ver} 7 hard. Serve on a lace 
paper napkin laid on a fancj T plate. Sometimes the bis- 
cuits are covered with a meringue, and colored slightly 
with a salamander just before serving. 

Frozen Apricots. — Cut one can of apricots into small 
pieces, add one pint of sugar and one quart of water. 
When the sugar is dissolved, freeze. When partly frozen 
add, if you like, one pint of whipped cream, measured 
after whipping. This is delicious without the cream. 
Peaches, pineapples, cherries, and strawberries are deli- 
cious when frozen. Vary the amount of sugar as the fruit 
requires. 

Sherbets, or Water Ices. 

Sherbets, or water ices, are made with the juice of fruit, 
water, and sugar. With a supply of canned fruit, or fruit 
syrup always at hand, a variety of delicious desserts may 
be quickly prepared. A tablespoonful of gelatine, soaked 
and dissolved, gives a light and smooth consistency to 
water ices. Many prefer to boil the water and sugar to a 
clear syrup, remove the scum, and when cool add the fruit 
juice ; and others use the white of egg beaten stiff, add- 
ing it after the sherbet is partly frozen. The following 
are some of the most delicious water ices. Follow the 
directions given under Orange Sherbet, for all the other 
varieties. 



ktj 



368 The Boston Cook Booh 



Orange Sherbet. 



1 tablespoonf ul gelatine. 
% cup cold water. 
% cup boiling water. 
1 cup sugar. 



1 cup cold water. 
6 oranges, or 
1 pint of juice. 



Soak the gelatine in the cold water ten minutes. Add the 
boiling water, and when dissolved add the sugar, another 
cup of cold water and the orange juice. Strain when the 
sugar is dissolved, and freeze. 

Pomegranate Sherbet. — Make the same as Orange 
Sherbet, using the blood-red oranges. 

Lemon Sherbet. 



1 tablespoonf ul gelatine. 
1 quart water. 



1 pint sugar. 
Juice of 6 lemons. 



The boiling water used in dissolving the gelatine should 
be part of the quart of water. 



Pineapple Sherbet. 



1 can grated, or 
1 pint fresh fruit. 
1 pint sugar. 



1 pint water. 

1 tablespoonf ul gelatine. 



In using fresh pineapple be careful to remove all the 

eyes. 

Raspberry and Strawberry Sherbet. 



1 pint berry juice. 
1 pint sugar. 
1 pint water. 
Juice of 2 lemons. 



Or, 1 pint preserved fruit. 
1 cup sugar. 

1 quart water. 

2 lemons. 



1 tablespoonf ul gelatine. ' 1 tablespoonful gelatine. 

When using preserved strawberries or raspberries, soak 
the fruit in part of the water and strain out the seeds. 



The Boston Cook Book. 369 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING- 
CAKE. 

Study first the directions given under Measuring, Mix- 
ing, and Baking. 

Cake is a mixture of part or all of the following mate- 
rials : eggs, sugar or molasses, flour, butter or cream, milk 
or water, fruit, soda, cream of tartar, spices, etc. 

An unlimited variety of cakes ma} 7 be made by varying 
the proportions of these materials, and to the same pro- 
portions many different names are given. Many amusing 
experiences are known of the eagerness with which a newly 
named receipt for cake is received, which, after many trials, 
has been found to be an old receipt arranged in a different 
order. An analysis of the hundreds of receipts given in 
books devoted to cake-making would show that the gen- 
eral principles involved may be included under two di- 
visions, namety, receipts for sponge cakes, made without 
butter; and pound or cup cakes, made with butter. Sponge 
cakes are made rich with eggs, the lightness depending 
wholly upon the amount of air beaten into the egg ; or an 
inferior quality is sometimes made by substituting soda 
and cream of tartar for part of the eggs, and adding more 
flour and some liquid, usually water. They vary in color, 
according as the white or yolk of the egg is used. Butter 
cakes are varied in the same way, and also by the addi- 
tion of fruit, or spices, or yarious coloring and flavoring 
materials. 

There is no one department in cooking where so much 
depends upon the Wring as in making cake. The fire 
should be rather low, but sufficient to last through the 
entire baking. In many stoves it is exceedingly difficult 
to bake cake by a morning fire ; as so much coal is put on, 

24 



370 The Boston Cook Book. 

the fire is too hot and cannot be checked sufficiently. The 
oven should be less hot than for bread. If too hot, leave 
the oven door open for ten minutes before putting in the 
cake, then watch it, and protect it by putting over it a 
covering of paper, or a pan on the grate above. Do not 
attempt to make cake unless you can have entire control 
of the fire. 

Thin cakes require a hotter oven than those baked in 
thick loaves. If the oven be not hot enough at first, or be 
cooled too suddenly during the baking, the cake will not 
be light. Cakes with molasses in them burn more quickly 
than others. Thin cakes should bake from fifteen to 
twenty minutes, thicker cakes from thirty to forty minutes, 
very-thick loaves about an hour, and fruit cake from two 
to three hours. Whichever kind you are baking, divide 
the time required into quarters. During the first quarter 
the heating is not manifested in appearance except by the 
rising ; during the second the cake should continue to rise 
and begin to brown ; then should become all over a rich 
golden brown ; and in the last quarter settle a little, brown 
in the cracks, and shrink from the pan. Be careful not to 
take it out too soon. If necessary to move it, do it very 
gently, and never move it when it has risen to the full 
height, but is not browned or fixed in its shape. 

If cake brown before rising, the oven is too hot. When 
it rises more in the centre, cracks open, and stays up, it is 
too stiff with flour. It should rise first on the edges, then 
in the middle, crack slightly, settle to a level again, when 
the cracks usualty come together. Nothing is more sug- 
gestive of bakeshop cake, or inferior quality in material, 
than a loaf with an upper surface having sharp edges, 
then hollows, and a peaked centre, as if the inside of the 
cake had boiled up and run out over the top. 

Line your cake tins with paper, to prevent burning the 
bottom and edges and to aid in removing the cake from 
the pans. Lay the paper over the outside of the pan, and 
crease it round the edge of the bottom. Allow it large 
enough to come above the top of the pan. Fold in the 



£ 



The Boston Cook Book. 371 

middle lengthwise and crosswise, and cut out the open 
corners to the crease made by the pan. Then fit it into 
the inside of the pan, and grease the paper, not the pan, 
with fresh butter or lard. Many use a rag tied on a stick ; 
others grease with a brush. Nice brushes are very ex- 
pensive (and no others are suitable), and unless carefully 
cleaned are quite objectionable. Rags and paper absorb 
the grease which should be put on the pan, anil in any case 
the fingers should be washed after the process. So there 
is no quicker, easier, or more economical way of greasing 
a tin than to rub the butter on with the fingers. 

Mix cake in an earthen bowl, and never in a tin pan. 
Use a wooden spoon, as iron spoons discolor the hand and 
the mixture. Use only the best materials. Go without 
cake rather than try to make it, or eat it when made, with 
what is called cooking butter and second-rate eggs. Such 
cake cannot be good or wholesome. Wash the butter, if 
very salt. Brown sugar is good for fruit cake, but for 
all other varieties use the finest granulated or powdered 
sugar. Very coarse granulated sugar makes heavy cake, 
with a hard and stick}' crust. The flour should be drj\ 
When it has been kept in a cool place it should be 
slightly warmed, and always sifted before using. St. 
Louis flour — or pastry flour, as it is sometimes called — 
is best for cake. When new-process flour is used, take 
one eighth less. Soda, cream of tartar, and baking- 
powders should be crushed and sifted into the flour, then 
sifted two or three times with the flour. Mix spices 
with the flour or with the sugar. Mix a little of the 
measure of flour with the fruit to keep it from sticking 
together or settling. If the sugar be lumpy, crush and sift 
before using. Eggs should be fresh, and cooled by keep- 
ing in cold water or in the ice-chest. The yolks and 
whites should be l>eaten separately. Break each egg on 
the edge of the cup, just enough to crack the middle of the 
shell, so the white will flow out, but not hard enough to 
break into the } T olks. Then hold the egg over the cup, 
with the cracked side up, and break it apart. Let the 



37 2 The Boston Cook Book. 



white run into the cup, and keep the yolk in the half shell 
until all the white is drained off. Be careful not to break 
the yolk, as the smallest portion of it in the whites will 
prevent them from frothiug. Beat the yolks in a bowl, 
and the whites in a platter if you use a fork or whisk, or 
in a bowl if you use a Dover beater. Never stop beating 
the whites until they are stiff and dry, as it is impossible 
to have them light if they become liquid again. 

Measure all the ingredients, and have the fire and all 
utensils ready, before you begin to mix. Observe the fol- 
lowing order in putting materials together. 

Sponge Cake Mixtures. — Beat the yolks until light or 
lemon-colored and thick. Add the sugar gradually, and 
beat again. Add the lemon juice or flavoring, and water, 
if that is to be used. Beat the whites until stiff and dry, 
and cut or fold them in lightly, then sift in the flour, and 
fold in carefullj- withouf any stirring. Sponge cakes should 
not be beaten after adding the flour. Those made with 
soda and cream of tartar require less beating than those 
without, but they are a very poor substitute for genuine 
sponge cake. 

Butter Cake Mixtures. — Warm the bowl with hot 
water, then wipe dry. Put in the butter, and rub with 
a wooden or silver spoon until light and creamy. Be 
careful not to have the bowl so hot as to melt the butter. 
Add the sugar and beat again. If the habit of rubbing 
the butter and sugar together with the hand be already 
formed, and you find it easier than to use a spoon, it is 
hardly worth while to change ; but for those who are 
wholly inexperienced it is better to learn to use the 
spoon, and every lady would prefer to have her cook 
mix in that way. If the proportion of sugar be large 
for the butter, — more than double, — beat part of the 
sugar with the butter, and the remainder with the jolks 
of the eggs. Where a very small proportion of butter 
is to be used, it may be melted and mixed with the 
eggs and sugar. Beat the 3 T olks till light and thick, 
then beat them well with the butter and sugar. Add the 




The Boston Cook Book. 381 



Buttercup Cake. (A. W.) 



% cup butter. 
1)4 cup sugar. 
Tolks of 8 eggs. 
1 whole egg. 
J£ cup milk. 



2 cups flour. 

% teaspoonf ul soda. 

1% teaspoonf ul cream of tartar. 

1 saltspoonf ul mace, or 

1 teaspoonful lemon. * 



Mix in the order given, and bake in two pans in a mod- 
erate oven till the loaf shrinks from the pan. Or bake in 
small round tins, and frost with yellow frosting, and 
decorate with candied fruit. 

^ • 

Harlequin Cake. {Mrs. Williams.) 



1 cup butter, creamed. 

2 cups sugar. 

3 eggs (yolks). 
1 cup milk. 



3 cups pastry flour. 
1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
% teaspoonful soda. 
Whites of 3 eggs. 



Mix in the order given, then divide the dough into four 
equal parts. Have two parts the color of the dough. 
Color the third with two squares of unsweetened choco- 
late, melted. Color the fourth part with pink coloring, 
and bake each part in a Washington pie plate. When 
all are done, lay first a light cake, then the chocolate, then 
another light, then the pink. Between the layers spread 
lemon jetty, and frost with white frosting. 

Lemon Jelly for Cake. — Beat one egg, add one cup of 
water, the grated rind and juice of one lemon. Pour this 
slowly on one cup of sugar, mixed with two tdblespoonfuls 
of flour. Cook in the double boiler till smooth, like cream. 

Pink Coloring for Cake and Creams. 



)£ ounce cochineal. 

J£ ounce alum. 

% ounce cream of tartar. 



}£ ounce salts of tartar. 
% pint boiling water. 
% pound sugar. 



To the first three ingredients add the boiling water, and 
put in a porcelain stewpan. Let it stand on the stove 
without boiling for twenty-five minutes. Add the salts 
of tartar very gradually, stirring all the time. Add the 



382 



The Boston Cook Book. 



sugar. Strain and bottle it. Use one or two teaspoonfuls, 
according to the shade desired. 

Pokeberry Syrup for Coloring Pink. — Put the fruit 
in a porcelain kettle, and cover with water. Boil slowly 
till the skins break, then strain. Add a pound of sugar 
to a quart of juice; boil a few moments, bottle and seal. 



Ribbon Cake. 



1 cup butter. 

2 cups sugar. 

* eggs, yolks and whites beaten 
separately. 



1 cup milk. 

3^ cups pastry flour. 

% teaspoonf ul soda. 

1 teaspoonf ul cream of tartar. 



Have three long, shallow pans, of equal size. Divide 
the dough into three pnxts. Bake two parts as plain cake ; 
add to the remaining dough, 



% cup raisins, stoned and 

chopped. 
1 cup currants. • 
^ pound sliced citron (the fruit 

all floured). 



2 teaspoonfuls molasses. ^ 
2 teaspoonfuls brandy or wine. 
1 teaspoonf ill mixed mace and 
cinnamon. 



Bake, and put the fruit cake between the two plain 
cakes, with jelly between. Press it lightly with the hand 
in putting together ; trim the edges even, and frost. 

Coffee Cake. 

Use one cup of strong, clear coffee instead of milk, and 
make as in the preceding rule. Add the fruit and spices 
to the whole mixture. Bake it in one loaf. 



1 egg. 

% cup molasses. 

% cup sugar. 

% cup melted butter. 

1 cup milk. 



Spice Cakes. 

2^ cups flour. 
1 heaping teaspoonful soda. 
1 even teasp. cream of tartar. 
1 tablespoonful mixed spice. 
1 tablespoonful vinegar. 



Mix in the order given, and bake in small tins. One 
tablespoonful of lemon juice and one tablespoonful of 
ginger may be substituted for the vinegar and spice. 



J 



m> 



The Boston Cook Book. 



383 



Plum Cakes. 



1 cup butter. 

2 cups brown sugar. 
Yolks of 3 eggs. 
Whites of 2 eggs. 
% cup milk. 

% cup dark molasse3. 
% teaspoonf ul soda. 



% teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
% pound raisins, stoned ' and 

chopped. 
)£ pound currants. 
2 tablespoonfuls any fruit syrup. 
4 cups flour. 
2 teaspoonf uls mixecf spices. 

If not dark enough, add a little melted chocolate. Bake 
in small tins, and frost part of them with the remaining 
white of egg. 

Pound Cake. (Miss Ward.) 



1 pound butter. 
1 pound sugar. 
10 eggs. 



1 pound flour. 

)<2 wineglass wine. - 

% wineglass brandy. 



Cream the butter; add the sugar, yolks of the eggs., 
wine, brandy, whites of the eggs, and the flour. Put cur- 
rants into one fourth of the dough, and almonds, blanched 
and pounded in rose water, into another part ; leave the 
remainder plain. Fill very small round tins three quarters 
full. Into half of those containing the plain dough put 
small pieces of citron, three in each, inserting the citron 
upright a little way into the dough. Sift sugar over the 
tops of those containing the citron and almond before put- 
ting them into the oven. Bake twenty minutes. Frost 
the plain and currant cakes. Pound cake is lighter when 
baked in small cakes than in loaves. 



Wedding Cake. 



1 pound butter. 
1 pound sugar. 
12 eggs. 

1 pound flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls each of cinnamon 

and mace. 
1 teaspoonful each of nutmeg and 
allspice. 

Line the pans with three thicknesses of paper ; butter 
the top layer. Seed and chop the raisins ; wash and dry 



% teaspoonful cloves. 
2 pounds raisins. 
2 pounds currants. 
1 pound citron. 
1 pound almonds. 
1 wineglass brandy. 
1 lemon. 



384 The Boston Cook Book. 



the currants (see page 435) ; cut the citron in uniform 
slices, about one eighth of an inch thick ; blanch the 
almonds and chop fine. Mix all the fruit but the citron 
with enough of the flour to coat it thoroughly. Mix 
the spices with the sugar. Cream the butter ; add the 
sugar, beaten yolks, beaten whites, lemon rind and juice, 
brandy, flour, and fruit, except the citron. Put a layer 
of dough half an inch deep in the pan, then spread evenly 
with the citron, then another layer of dough and citron; 
repeat till the materials are all used. Have dough for the 
top layer. As this cake does not rise much in baking, the 
pans may be at least two thirds full. Bake in two large, 
deep, oblong pans three hours, in a moderate oven. 

Frosting. 

Plain Frosting. — White of one. egg, one teaspoonfuL 
of lemon juice, and one scant cup of powdered sugar. Put 
the egg and lemon juice in a bowl, and stir the sugar in 
gradually. Then beat, not stir, all together fwe minutes. 

Boiled Icing. — One cup of granulated sugar, one third 
of a cup of boiling water, white of one egg, and one salt- 
spoonful of cream of tartar. Boil the sugar and water 
without stirring, until the syrup taken up on a skewer will 
"thread" or " rope." When it is nearly at that point, 
beat the egg stiff, add the cream of tartar, and pour the 
boiling syrup over the egg in a fine stream, beating well. 
When it thickens and is perfectly smooth, pour it over the 
cake. It hardens quickly, and should be put on the cake 
before it stiffens enough to drop. 

Golden Frosting. — Beat the yolks of eggs and stir in 
powdered sugar till stiff enough to spread, hot to run. 
Flavor with vanilla or wine. 

Ornamental Frosting. — Whites of three eggs, three 
cups of confectioner's sugar, sifted, and three teaspoon- 
fuls of lemon juice. Put the eggs in a large bowl ; 
sprinkle with three teaspoonfuls of the sugar. Beat with 
a perforated wooden spoon, adding three teaspoonfuls. of 



wo 1 * 



~ The Boston Cook Book. 385 

^ M ^^^ _^M»^MMaM«^MW-aM^^^^^^B^BB— na^BMSH^»«^^H^H^H^^M«^^H^M«^MMW-^^BMH»— ^M^aMMMHanaMBB^M^H^^^^^^MMi^MwaM^^wM 

sugar every five minutes. When it begins to thicken add 
the lemon juice and beat as before. It should thicken b} r 
the beating of the egg, and not by the addition of too much 
sugar. Do not use all the measure of sugar "unless needed. 
Beat with a long flop, over and over, and never stir. When 
stiff enough to leave a " clean cut," or not to run together 
when cut with a knife, spread a thin layer of frosting on 
the cake, and when this is hard put on another layer a 
quarter of an inch thick. When this is firm, mark it for 
cutting. To the remainder of the frosting add sugar more 
rapidl}*, until it begins to harden on the spoon and bowl. 
Put a confectioner's tube into the end of a pastry bag, fill 
the bag with frosting, twist the end tightly, and press the 
frosting through the tube on the cake in any design you 
wish. 

Pink Frosting. — Color a portion of the Ornamental 
Frosting with cochineal, adding it slowly till of the desired 
shade. 

Chocolate Frosting. — Melt a square of chocolate in a 
saucepan, and add to the Ornamental Frosting, using 
enough to color light or dark as 3 T ou prefer. 

Orange Frosting. — Grate the thin rind of an orange, 
and soak it half an hour in three or four teaspoonfuls of 
the orange juice. Then squeeze the juice through a fine 
cloth, and use the same as lemon juice in Ornamental 
Frosting. 

Cookies. 



Plain Cookies. 
% cup butter. 
1 cup sugar. 
J^ cup milk. 

1 egg. 

2 even teasp. baking-powder. 
Flour to roll out thin. 



Richer Cookies. 

% cup butter. 
1 cup sugar. 

1 tablespoonful milk. 

2 eggs. 

1 heaping teasp. baking-powder. 
Flour to roll out. 



Cream the butter; add the sugar, milk, egg, beaten 
lightly, and the baking-powder mixed with two cups of 
flour, then enough more flour to roll out. Roll a little at 
a time. Cut out. Bake about ten minutes. 

25 



386 The Boston Cook Book. 

Cocoanut Cookies. — Add one cup of grated cocotintti, 
or half a cup of cocoanut cakes, crumbled, to either of 
these receipts before adding the flour. 

Jumbles. — Roll either of these mixtures thicker, and 
cut with a doughnut cutter ; sprinkle sugar over, and bake 
a delicate brown. 

Hermits. — Add half a cup of stoned and chopped rai- 
sins to the receipt for Richer Cookies, and roll about a 
quarter of an inch thick. Cut into rounds. 

New Year's Cookies. — Rub three fourths of a cup of 
butter into six cups of flour. Pour half a cup of boiling 
water over one cup and a half of sugar, add a scant half- 
teaspoonful of soda, and when the sugar is melted stir all 
into the flour. Roll out thin. 



One-Two-Three-Four Cookies. (Mrs. Whitney.) 

1 cup butter. 

2 cups sugar. 

3 cups flour. 

4 eggs. 
Y 2 teaspoonful soda. 



1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
% teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful spice, or 

2 tablesp. carraway seed, or 
2 teaspoonf uls yellow ginger. 




Cream the butter, and add half the sugar. Beat the 
yolks, add the remaining half of the sugar, and beat them 

with the butter, then add 
the beaten whites. Mix 
the soda, cream of tartar, 
spice, and salt with the 
flour, and stir into the 
butter mixture. Take a 
*io.5o. cookies. teaspoonful oftte dough, 

make it into a ball with floured hands, place tke balls in 
the pan some distance apart, then press or flatten into a 
round cake, and bake about ten minutes. 

Thin Sugar Gingerbread. — Add to the preceding re- 
ceipt two teaspoonfuls of yellow ginger, instead of spice, 
and spread the mixture* thin on a. tin sheet. Mark in 
squares or oblongs, and bake. 



The Boston Cook Book. 387 



Superior Gingerbread. (Mrs. Towne.) 



1J£ pound butter. 

I/I2 pound sugar. 

9 eggs, yolks and whites beaten 

separately. 
1 wineglass wine. 



1 wineglass brandy. 

2 tabiespoonfuls ginger and 

1 nutmeg, grated r mixed with 

2 pounds flour 



Mix as for cake in the order given, and spread very thin 
with a knife on tin sheets. Bake, and cut in squares while 
warm. This will keep six" months. 

Hard Gingerbread. (Mrs. Dewey.) 



% pound butter. 
1J^ pound sugar. 
6 eggs. 



1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in 
3 tabiespoonfuls milk. 

1 tablespoonful ginger. 

2 pounds flour. 



Cream the butter ; add the sugar and beaten eggs, and 
beat well. Sift in the ginger, strain the soda, and add the 
flour. Roll half an inch thick, or thin as a wafer. 

Hard Gingerbread. (Miss A. M. Towne.) 



2 cups N. 0. molasses. 

1 cup butter. 

1 tablespoonful ginger. 



1 teaspoonful soda. 

St. Louis flour to mix very stiff. 



Heat (not boil) the molasses and butter ; when the .but- 
ter is melted, add the ginger, sifted, the soda dissolved in 
a little boiling water, and the flour. Roll very thin, and 
bake in a quick oven. 

« Soft Gingerbread. 



1 cup molasses. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 
1 tablespoonful ginger. 
% teaspoonful salt. 



% to % cup butter or drippings, 

softened. 
1 cup milk. 
3 cups pastry flour. 



Bake in shallow pans or gem pans in a moderate oven'* 
about thirty minutes. 



388 



The Boston Cook Book. 



Sugar Gingerbread. 

2 teaspoonf uls ginger. 
1 teaspoonf ul soda, scant. 



% cup butter. 
y^ cup cream. 
1^2 CU P sugar. 

Mix stiff with flour. Roll thick or thin. 



Hot Water Gingerbread. 



% teaspoonf ul salt. 
3^ cup boiling water. 
2 cups flour. 



1 cup molasses. 

1 teaspoonf ul soda. 

1 tablespoonful ginger. 

1 tablespoonf ul butter, melted. 

Mix in the order given, and beat well. Bake in a deep 
cake pan. 

Soar Milk Gingerbread. 



% cup molasses. 
% teaspoonf ul soda. 
% teaspoonful salt. 
1 tablespoonful ginger. 
% cup sugar. 



1 tablespoonful butter, softened 
1 cup sour milk. 

2)^ cups pastry flour, with an- 
other 
% teaspoonful soda mixed with it 



Omit the butter when sour cream is used. Bake in 
muffin pans. 

Ginger Snaps. (Mrs. H. B. May.) 



1 cup molasses. 

% cup sugar. 

1 tablespoonful ginger. 



1 teaspoonful soda. 
% cup sof tened butter. 
Flour to roll out very thin. 



* Heat the molasses, pour it over the sugar; add the 
ginger, soda, butter, and flour. Cut, and bake quickly. 

Ginger Drops (without Butter). 



2 eggs, well beaten. 

1 cup brown sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls ginger. 



1 cup N. 0. molasses, boiled. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 
Flour to roll out. 



Mix in the order given. Roll thin, cut with a very 
small cutter, and bake in a quick oven. If you like, add 
one tablespoonful of vinegar before adding the flour, and 
use a heaping, teaspoonful of soda. 



\ 



The Boston Cook Book. 389 



Soft Molasses Cookies. (A. W.) 

1 cup molasses. 

1 tablespoonf ul ginger. 

1 teaspoonf ul soda. 



2 tabiesp. warm water or milk. 
%, cup butter, softened 
Flour to mix soft. 



Mix in the order given, dissolving the soda in the milk. 
Roll out one third of an inch thick. Cut in small rounds. 



Cream Cakes. 



1 cup hot water. 
3^ teaspoonful salt. 
% cup butter. 



\% cup pastry flour. 
& eggs, yolks and whites beaten 
separately. 



Boil the water, salt, and butter. When boiling, add the 
dry flour, stir well for five minutes, and when cool add the 
eggs. This is such a stiff mixture, many find it easier 
to mix with the hand, and some prefer to add the eggs 
whole, one at a time. When well mixed, drop, in table- 
spoonfuls, on a buttered baking-pan, some distance apart. 
Bake twenty to thirty minutes, or till brown and well 
puffed. Split when cool, and fill with cream. 

Eclairs. — Bake the Cream Cake mixture in pieces 
four inches long and one and a half wide. When cool, 
split and fill with cream. Ice with chocolate or vanilla 
frosting. 

Cream for Cream Cakes and Eclairs. 



1 pint milk, boiled. 

2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch. 

3 eggs, well beaten. 



% cup sugar. 

1 saltspoonful salt, or 

1 teaspoonful butter. 



Wet the cornstarch in cold milk, and cook in the boiling 
milk ten minutes. Beat the eggs ; add the sugar and the 
thickened milk. Cook in the double boiler five minutes. 
Add the salt or butter, and when cool, flavor with lemon, 
vanilla, or almond. 

Kisses, or Cream Meringues. 

Beat the whites of three eggs stiff and flak}- ; add three 
quarters of a cup of powdered sugar, sifting and cutting 



39° The Boston Cook Book. 



it in lightly. Drop by spoonfuls on paper placed on 
boards. Put in the hot closet or oven, with the door 
open for half an hour. Then brown slightly. Put two 
together ; or put them on the paper in oblong shape, dry 
one hour, brown, remove the soft part, and fill with whipped 
cream. 

To make these successful^, the stead}', moderate heat 
of a confectioner's brick oven is essential. It is a waste ot 
time and material to attempt them in an ordinary stove 
oven. 

Macaroons. 

Half a pound of almonds, blanched, dried, and pounded 
to a paste, with one teaspoonful of rose water. Beat to- 
gether the whites of three eggs, and half a cup of powdered 
sugar, adding the sugar by the teaspoonful. Add half a 
teaspoonful of almond essence, then add the pounded 
almonds and, if too soft to be shaped, add one tablespoon- 
ful of flour. Roll with wet hands into balls the size of 
walnuts, flatten them slightly, and place some distance 
apajt on buttered paper. Bake slowly. 

Almond paste, ready for use, may be obtained at a con- 
fectioner's. Break it up with a fork, add the beaten whites 
and sugar, using four or five eggs for half a pound of 
paste. Drop by teaspoonfuls on paper, and bake as 
above. 

Cocoanut Cakes. (Mrs. Richard Ward.) 

The grated meat of two cocoanuts, their weight in loaf 
sugar, one cup of flour, and whites of two eggs. Shape 
into balls, and bake twenty minutes. 

Chocolate Caramels. 

One cup of molasses, half a cup of sugar, one quarter 
of a pound of chocolate, cut fine, half a cup of milk, and 
one heaping tablespoonful of butter. Boil all together, 
stirring all the time. When it hardens in cold water, pour 
it into shallow pans, and as it cools cut in small squares. 



The Boston Cook Book. 391 



FRUIT. 

It would be a great saving of time and work, give a 
pleasing variety to bills of fare, and be above all a great 
promoter of health, if people would use ripe fruit abun- 
dantly in its season at their tables (not between meals). 
With the markets bountifully supplied with many varieties 
of fruit, it is to be regretted that it cannot be found at 
every table at least once a day. Much of the money spent 
for some kinds of meat would be better expended for fruit. 
A simple course of fruit is all that is needed after a dinner, 
and is much more wholesome than pies. But it is so hard 
for some people to break away from old customs that it 
will be long before housekeepers generally will be content 
to serve the queen of all fruits, the apple, in its natural 
state instead of making it into the u persistent pie," over 
the preparation of which manj r women toil, for naught save 
the fear that they ma}* be considered shiftless if they 
have n't a pie in the house. 

Ripe fruit is especially appropriate at the breakfast- 
table, and may be taken before or after the principal 
dishes, according to individual needs and taste. Some peo- 
ple require the acid of oranges or grapes before they can 
eat anything substantial ; others might be made ill by their 
use at that time, but be benefited by them afterwards. 

All fruit should be served as fresh and cold as possible. 
A dish of fruit which has been kept from day to day in a 
warm room may answer for an ornament, but it is not 
tempting to the palate. Only sound, fresh fruit should 
appear at the table. 

Apples for table use should have a pleasant spic}* flavor, 
not too acid, and should be wiped clean, or polished if you 
prefer the street-vender's style. 



39 2 The Boston Cook Booh 



Oranges may be served whole or cut. Many slice them 
across the sections ; but the presence of the seeds and tough 
inner skin is objectionable. A better way is to remove all 
the rind and white skin, divide into sections, then with the 
point of a silver fruit-knife cut off the inner skin in the 
middle, slip out the seeds, and cut each section into three 
pieces. Never serve with the seeds left in, nor sweeten 
until just before serving. A neat way to peel an orange 
is to cut the rind from the ends and leave a strip round 
the middle, then open, leaving the sections on the strip 
of peel. Or cut the oranges in halves crosswise without 
peeling, sprinkle with sugar, and eat with a spoon. 

Grapes, Malagas especially, should be carefully rinsed in 
cold water, then drained. Fruit scissors should be used to 
divide the clusters. 

Bananas may be served whole, or sliced and slightly 
sweetened or salted. 

Peaches should have the wool wiped off, or if pared and 
quartered should be sprinkled with fine granulated sugar, 
and served at once. 

Strawberries, if gritty, should be rinsed and drained, 
then hulled, and not sweetened till served. Large selected 
berries may be served with the stems on. Pass sugar with 
them, that those who prefer may roll them in it. 

Currants should be sweetened, and large whole clusters 
may be served on the stem. Currants and raspberries are 
delicious when served together. 

Watermelons should be served very cold. Cut off a 
slice at each end, that each half may stand upright. Serve 
the core only, taking it out with a tablespoon in cone- 
shaped pieces. Other melons should have the seeds re- 
moved before serving, be cut in halves, a lump of ice in 
each, and served with sugar or salt. 

Pineapples. — Pare, remove the eyes, and cut in thin 
slices ; then remove the fibrous centre, and serve in slices, 
or cut the tender parts into small pieces and sweeten to 
taste. Or pare and pull off the tender part with a fork, as 
directed for preserved pineapple. 



The Boston Cook Book. 393 

-Zcec? Fruits. — Dip selected fruit into the white of egg 
slightly beaten, then roll in fine granulated sugar. Dry, 
and serve very cold. 

Whole fruit should be served in a high dish, garnished 
with green leaves, flowers, or vines, and, with a tasteful 
combination of colors, arranged in a convenient way for 
serving. 

Nuts should be cracked, and served with salt. 

Almonds and other nuts having a tough inner skin 
should be blanched. 

Raisins. — Use only choice varieties, and serve with 
nuts. 



Tropical Snow. 



8 sweet oranges. 
1 cocoanut, grated. 
6 red bananas. 



1 glass sherry wine, or 
J^ cup lemon juice. 
Powdered sugar to taste. 



Peel the oranges, divide into sections, and remove the 
seeds and tough membrane. Put a la} T er of orange in the 
bottom of a glass dish, pour over it a little wine or lemon 
juice, and strew with powdered sugar ; add cocoanut, and 
then the banana cut in thin slices ; repeat the process, 
using orange, cocoanut, banana, etc., as before. The top 
la}*er is to be heaped high in the centre, and sprinkled 
thickly with cocoanut and powdered sugar, and garnished 
around the base with slices of banana. 

Other combinations of fruit maj' be arranged to suit the 
taste ; and cocoanut cakes or macaroons, crumbled, or a 
meringue of white of egg and sugar, may take the place 
of the grated cocoanut. 

Stewed and Baked Fruits. 

The simplest forms of cooking fruit are stewing and 
baking. Only a small amount of sugar is needed, and it 
is not well to prepare a large quantity at a time, as stewed 
fruits do not keep long. In cooking fruit alwa} T s use porce- 
lain or granite kettles, earthen dishes, wooden spoons, and 



394 The Boston Cook Book. 

silver knives, and pare just before cooking, that the deli- 
cate flavor of the fruit may be preserved, and its attractive 
appearance not impaired by discoloration. 

Stewed Apple Sauce. — Pare, core, and quarter six or 
eight tart apples. Make a syrup with one cup of sugar, 
two thirds of a cup of water, and a little lemon peel. 
When boiling, add the apples, and cook carefully two or 
three minutes, till they are just tender, but not broken. 
Remove them carefully, boil the syrup down a little, and 
strain it over the apples. Cook them in granite or porcelain 
pans, and use a wooden spoon. 

Compote of Apples. — Make a syrup with one cup of 
sugar, one cup of water, and a square-inch of stick cin- 
namon. Boil slowly for ten minutes, skimming well. 
Core and pare eight or ten tart apples; "cook till nearly 
done in the syrup. Drain, and cook them a few minutes 
in the oven. Boil the syrup till almost like a jeW}*. Ar- 
range the apples on a dish for serving. Fill the core 
cavities vrith jelly or marmalade. Pour the syrup over 
them. Put whipped cream around the base, and garnish 
the cream with jelly. 

Baked Apples. — Core and pare sour apples. Put them 
in a shallow earthen dish, fill the cavities with sugar, 
mixed with grated lemon rind; add water to cover the 
bottom of the dish. Bake in a very quick oven till soft, 
basting often with the syrup. 

Quinces may be baked in the same way, adding a little 
more water, as the} 7 require a longer time for baking. 
When eaten hot with butter and sugar, they are delicious. 

No. 2. — Fill a deep pudding-dish with apples, pared, 
cored, and quartered. For two quarts add one cup of 
sugar and one cup of water. Bake, closely covered, in a 
very moderate oven several hours, or till dark red. 

Baked Pears. — Hard pears, or "windfalls," are deli- 
cious pared and baked as in the preceding receipt. When 
done, and still hot, they may be sealed in Mason's jars, 
and will keep indefinitely. By preparing one large dishful 
every day during the pear season, a supply of wholesome 



The Boston Cook Book. 395 

sauce may be easily obtained from fruit that is often left 
to waste on the ground. 

Steamed Rhubarb. — Wash, peel, and cut the rhubarb 
into inch pieces. Put it into a granite double boiler, add 
one cup of sugar for a pint of fruit, and cook till the rhu- 
barb is soft. Do not stir it. When the rhubarb is very 
sour, steam it without sugar until the juice flows, then 
drain it, add the sugar, and steam again till the sugar is 
dissolved. Or pour boiling water over it and let it stand 
five minutes, then drain and steam. 

Stewed Prunes. — Wash carefully, and if hard and dry 
soak an hour before cooking. Put them into a porcelain 
kettle, with boiling water to cover them. Boil, closely 
covered, from five to ten minutes, or until swollen and 
tender. Then add one tablespoonful of sugar for one pint 
of prunes, and boil a few moments longer, but not enough 
to break them. Use only the best selected prunes. If 
they lack flavor, add a little lemon juice. 

Cranberries. — Put three pints of washed cranberries in 
a granite stewpan. On top of them put three cups of gran- 
ulated sugar and three gills of water. After they begin 
to boil cook them ten minutes, closely covered, and do not 
stir them. Remove the scum. They will jelly when cool, 
and the skins will be soft and tender. 

JVo. 2. (Miss Ward.) — Equal measure of 'cranberries 
and sugar. Wash, drain, put in a porcelain kettle with 
cold water to just show among the berries when they are 
pressed down. When they boil add a quarter of the sugar. 
Sprinkle it over the berries without stirring. Let it boil 
again a minute, add another quarter, etc., till all the sugar 
is in. Boil up once more, and turn out. Boil slowly, and 
do not stir. This method is preferred by those who like a 
very rich sweet sauce. 

Jellies. 

Jellies are made of equal parts of cle'ar fruit juice and 
sugar. Apples, currants, quinces, grapes, and barberries 
are the fruits usually used. Low blackberries and swamp 



396 The Boston Cook Book. 

huckleberries make delicious jelly. Crab apples and quinces 
will form jelly easity ; but grapes are unreliable, and cur- 
rants, if not gathered at the proper time, will sometimes 
fail. Cherries and some other fruits require the addition 
of gelatine. Berries, currants, and grapes require no 
water. Simply mash them in their own juice. Apples, 
peaches, and quinces should be stewed in as little water as 
possible, then mashed, and the juice strained. The juices 
of fruits contain a gelatinous substance called pectose, or 
pectic acid, which is soluble in the fruit juice, but has the 
property of coagulation when mixed with sugar, exposed 
to a slight heat, and then cooled. Sometimes the heat of 
the sun is sufficient, but usually a short but more intense 
heat is necessarj\ When the sugar has a bluish tinge, or 
when there is not enough sugar to absorb the water in the 
juice, or when the juice is unusually watery, as when the 
fruit is over- ripe, and the fruit is boiled a long time to evap- 
orate this water, the mixture loses its gelatinous properties 
and becomes guminj r , or, as disconsolate housekeepers say, 
"will not jelly." 

Currant Jelly. — Currants should not be over-ripe, nor 
gathered after a rain, as then they are too watery. In 
New England currants are in the best condition about 
the 10th of July. Equal parts of red and white currants, 
or currants and raspberries, make a delicately colored 
and flavored jelly. Pick over and remove the leaves and 
poor fruit, and if gritty wash and drain them, but do not 
stem them. Mash them in a porcelain kettle with a 
wooden pestle, without heating, as that makes the jelly 
darker. Let them drain in a flannel bag over night. Do 
not squeeze them, or the jelly will be cloudy. In the 
morning measure a bowl of sugar for each bowl of juice, 
and heat the sugar carefully in an earthen dish in the 
oven. Stir it often to prevent burning. Boil the juice 
twenty minutes, and skim thoroughly. Add the hot 
sugar, and boil from three to five minutes, or till it 
tnickens on a spoon when exposed to the air. Turn at 
once into glasses, and let them remain in the sun several 



WvPMiwmnptMtiWMKniBdau _i_ 



The Boston Cook Booh 397 

days, then cover with paper dipped in brand}', and paste 
paper over the top of the glass. 

One who is authority on this subject recommends cov- 
ering with melted paraffine, or putting a lump of paraffine 
on the jelly while still hot ; then no paper is needed. If 
one can be sure of several sunny days, and a perfectly 
dry place in which to keep jellies, they may be made * 
without boiling. Mix the sugar with an equal weight of 
currant juice, and stir till dissolved. Fill the glasses and 
keep in the sun till dry. 

After draining the juice the currants may be squeezed, 
and a second quality of jelly made. It may not be clear, 
but answers for some purposes. 

Crab-<Apple, Wild-Apple, or Porter-Apple JeUy. (Miss 
Marriott T. Ward.) — Wash the fruit ; cut into pieces, 
but do not pare, nor remove the seeds ; barely cover with 
cold water. Boil and mash them until soft. Then drain 
on a sieve. Use the juice only, and do not squeeze the 
fruit. Boil the juice with an equal quantity of sugar, 
until it jellies. Peach jelly is made in the same manner. 

Quince JeUy. — Wipe the fruit carefully, and remove 
all the stems, and parts not fair and sound. Use the 
best parts of the fruit for canning or preserving, and the 
skin, cores, and hard parts for jelly. The seeds contain a 
large portion of gelatinous substance. Boil all together, 
in enough water to cover, till the pulp is soft. Mash, and 
drain. Use the juice only, and when boiling add an equal 
weight of hot sugar, and boil till it jellies in the spoon. 

Grape Jelly. — Select the grapes when not fully ripe. 
Wash and drain, then put them in a preserving-kettle, 
mash well, and heat till all the skins are broken and the 
juice flows freely. Strain, and use the juice only with an 
equal weight of sugar, as for Currant Jelly. 

Marmalade. 

This is made of the pulp of fruits with the juice, unless 
that has been used for jelly. When fruit is not abundant, 



39 8 The Boston Cook Book. 

it is well to make marmalade at the same time with jellies, 
especially from peaches, quinces, and grapes. After drain- 
ing, rub the fruit pulp through a sieve, add an equal weight 
of sugar, and boil very slowly half or three quarters of an 
hour. Stir often to prevent burning. 

' Preserves. 

These are usually prepared with equal weights of sugar 
and fruit. Although too rich for daily use, there are 
many people who prefer them to the canned fruit, and 
there are some fruits which are better with the full weight 
of sugar. The fruit should be ripe, fresh, and perfectly 
sound. The following rules illustrate the best methods 
for the different varieties of fruit. 

Peaches. — Pare the peaches ; or remove the skins by 
plunging the peaches into boiling lye (two gallons of water 
and one pint of wood ashes) . When the skins will slip 
easily, take the peaches out with a skimmer and plunge 
them into cold water ; rinse in several waters, and there 
will be no taste of the lye. Weigh, and add three fourths 
of a 'pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Halve them, 
and use some of the pits, or leave them whole as you 
please. The stones improve the flavor. Make a syrup 
by adding as little water as possible to the sugar,— 
about one cupful to each pound of sugar. When it 
boils, skim till clear, then add the peaches, and cook until 
transparent. 

Brandy Peaches. — Prepare the peaches as above, and 
use half a cup of the best brandy to every pound of fruit. 
Add the brandy just as the syrup is taken from the fire. 
Some people prefer the yellow peaches, but white-fleshed 
freestone peaches have a delicious flavor. 

Damsons and Greengages should be pricked in many 
places with a large needle, to prevent the skins from 
bursting. Or scald them and remove the skins, as some- 
times they harden in cooking. Prepare the syrup as for 
peaches. Cook only a few at a time, that they may not 
be broken. On three successive mornings pour off the 



y 



s 

,«*' 



 

The Boston Cook Booh 399 



syrup, and boil it gently for' ten minutes. This will 
thoroughly cook the fruit, without destroying the shape. 

JP reserved Quinces. — Use the orange quinces. Wipe, 
pare, quarter, and remove all the core and the hard part 
under the core. Take an equal weight of sugar. Cover 
the quinces with cold water. Let them come slowly to a 
boil. Skim, and when nearly soft put one quarter of the 
sugar on the top, but do not stir. When this boils, add 
another part of the sugar, and continue until all the sugar 
is in the kettle. Let them boil slowly until the color you 
like , either light or dark. 

Another way is to cook the quinces in water till ten- 
der, drain, and put them in a stone jar in layers, with an 
equal weight of sugar. Cover closely. In a cold dry 
place they will keep perfectly. They are lighter-colored 
and more tender than when cooked in the syrup. Watch 
them during the first month, and if there be any signs of 
fermentation, set the jar in a kettle of hot water till the 
fruit is scalded. Reserve the broken or unshapely pieces 
of quince, cut them in small cubes, and use with Strawberry 
Tomatoes. Allow three quarters of a pound of sugar to a 
pound of fruit. Make the s} r rup, and cook the fruit in it 
till tender. Skim it out, and boil the syrup down for ten 
minutes. Fill the jars, and seal at once. Equal parts of 
sweet apple, cooked with the quince but with no extra sugar, 
can scarcely be distinguished from the quince. 

Preserved Pineapple. — Remove the skin and all the 
eyes, take the pineapple in your left hand, and with a sil- 
ver fork begin at the stem end of the fruit and fork out 
small bits. This will leave the core, which is juiceless 
and tasteless, in } T our hand. Weigh the pineapple after it 
is thus prepared, and sprinkle over it three quarters of a 
pound of sugar to one pound of pineapple. When a 
syrup is formed, cook the apple slowly in it until trans- 
parent, then remove the fruit and boil the syrup a little 
longer. Or slice the pineapple in half-inch slices, and cut 
out the core. Cook in th« syrup, being careful not to 
break the slices. 



400 The Boston Cook Book. 

Preserved Strawberries Raspberries, Currants, Black- 
berries, and Cherries. — Measure a bowl of fruit and the 
same quantity of sugar. Put in a preserving-kettle, over 
night, a layer of fruit, and then one of sugar. In the 
morning cook slowly without stirring, until the liquid is 
clear and the fruit soft. Skim thoroughly before putting 
into the jars. Cherries should be stoned. The pits may 
be used if the flavor be desired. 

No. 2. — Use only large and selected fruit, and allow 
one cup of sugar to a pint jar of fruit Pick over the 
fruit, and put at once into the jars, with as little hand- 
ling as possible, and sprinkle each layer with sugar. Place 
the jars in a boiler of water, and let the water boil ten 
minutes. Have a little syrup boiling, and fill each jar to 
the brim with the boiling syrup, and seal at once. 

Jams. 

Jams are made with whole small fruits, or large fruit cut 
fine, and cooked in an equal weight of sugar. 

Grape Jam. — Wash the grapes, and squeeze or pinch 
the pulp from the skins. Boil the pulp until it separates 
from the seeds, and rub it through a sieve. Then add the 
skins to the pulp, and boil with an equal weight of sugar 
fifteen minutes. Put into small jars or tumblers, and cover 
with paper. 

Currant, Raspberry, or Blackberry Jam. — Pick over 
and mash the fruit ; allow one pound of sugar to a pound 
of fruit. Put the fruit and one quarter of the sugar into 
a granite or porcelain kettle ; when boiling, add another 
quarter of the sugar ; boil again, add more sugar, and 
when all is used, let it boil till it hardens on the spoon 
in the air. 

Apples, pears, peaches, and quinces should be pared, 
cut smajl, and treated in the same way. Cooking in only 
a little sugar at a time prevents the fruit from becoming 
hard. 



The Boston Cook Booh 401 



Canning. 

Canning differs from preserving in that the fruit is kept, 
either with or without sugar, by sealing in air-tight jars or 
cans, and is not cooked long enough to destroy its natural 
flavor. Some authorities state that fruit may be kept by 
putting it in the jars, filling with cold water, and sealing 
immediately. But nearly all fruits are improved by the 
addition of more or less sugar. As a rule, all fruits that 
require sugar when fresh require it when canned. 

The important points in canning are to have the fruit 
perfect in shape and quality ; the syrup clear, rightly pro- 
portioned, and boiling hot ; the jars hot and filled to over- 
flowing, and sealed quickly and thoroughly, that no air 
may be left inside. Have all utensils in order and at 
hand, that there may be no needless delay. Large-mouthed 
glass jars with glass covers or porcelain-lined screw covers 
are the best. Pint jars are more convenient for a small 
family. They should be scalded, and the covers and rub- 
bers clean and perfectly fitted. Keep the jars in hot water 
until ready to fill, or roll each one in hot water just before 
filling, or place them in a folded towel wrung out of hot 
water, and put a silver spoon or fork in the jar while 
filling. A clamp is a great convenience, as the jar may 
be held in the clamp directly over the kettle and filled very 
quickly. If without this, have a broad shallow pan, half 
filled with hot water, on the stove or on a table near by, 
and place the jars in it while filling them. A wide-mouthed 
tunnel aids in filling the jars. When the fruit is to be boiled 
in the jars, place a perforated tin or some flat stones or 
muffin rings in, the boiler, to keep the jars from resting on 
the bottom. Then the water will be under as well as 
around the jar, and there will be no danger of breaking. 

All ripe mellow fruit may be prepared and put at once 

into the jars. Place the jars in a boiler or kettle of warm 

water, with something underneath to avoid breaking. 

Make the syrup, using sugar according to taste, or in the 

proportion of one cup of sugar and one cup of water for 

26 



402 The Boston Cook Book. 



each jar of small juicy berries, and one cup of sugar and 
two cups of water for pears and /ar^e fruits. Pour the 
syrup boiling hot into the hot jars, boil five minutes, and 
seal at once. 

Strawberries, plums, and cherries will require more 
sugar. Cherries should be stoned, but the stones may be 
used if liked. 

Quinces, apples, hard peaches, pears, and fruits which 
require softening, should be cooked in water or in syrup 
until tender. Then fill the jars with boiling syrup, strain- 
ing it if not clear. 

Peaches may be canned whole, or if halved, a few of 
the pits removed and cooked in the syrup to give addi' 
tional flavor. 

Pears should be well ripened and of fine flavor. A taste 
less, insipid pear is only suitable for sweet pickle. 

Tomatoes should be peeled and cooked till well scalded, 
then salted and sealed at once. 

Always fill to overflowing, using boiling water when 
there is not enough syrup. Run the handle of a silver 
tablespoon down the inside of the jar, that the syrup may 
completely surround the fruit. Fasten the covers on se- 
curely, and give the screw an extra turn every half-hour 
until the fruit is cold. If the jars be kept bottom up and 
in a dark place, there is hardly a chance of failure. The 
best qualitj' of thick tin-foil may be used as a cover for 
an} r large-mouthed bottle or jar minus a cover. Fill the 
jar with the fruit and syrup, cover with a large piece of 
tin-foil, work it down over the rim until perfectly smooth 
and tight. If air-tight, there will be a depression in the 
cover as soon as the fruit is cold. Fruit thus covered 
should be kept away from mice, as they will eat the tin- 
foil. 

Canned fruit should be opened some time before using, 
that it may be aerated and the flavor improved. There 
has been a strong feeling against the use of fruit prepared 
in tin cans. Chemists have examined canned fruit as soon 
as opened, and found it harmless ; but if the fruit be left 



HIM 



The Boston Cook Book. 403 

in the tin can, the action of the air causes the acid in the 
fruit to act upon the metal and form a poisonous compound 1 . 
Care should be taken to remove the fruit from the can as 
soon as opened. 

Sweet Pickles. 

Slight pounds of fruit, four pounds of best brown sugar, 
&ne quart of vinegar, and one cup of mixed whole spices, 
— stick cinnamon, cassia buds, allspice, and cloves / less 
of the latter than of the former. Tie the spices in a bag, 
and boil with the vinegar and sugar. Skim well ; then add 
the fruit. Cook ten minutes, or till scalded and tender. 
Skim out the fruit, and put into stone jars. Boil the syrup 
five minutes longer, and pour over the fruit. The next 
day pour off the syrup and boil down again, and do 
this for three mornings. Keep the bag of spices in the 
83 T rup. 

Tomatoes. — Scald, remove the skins, and cook without 
breaking if possible. 

Peaches. — Scald or wipe off the "wool," and leave 
them whole. Do not stick them with cloves. If very 
ripe, merely pour the hot syrup over them on three suc- 
cessive mornings. 

Pears. — Select sound fruit, not too ripe. Pare, and 
leave them whole with the stems on. Cook till tender. 

Pipe Cucumber or Watermelon Pind. — Cut the pared 
rind into thick slices. Boil one ounce of alum in one gal- 
lon of water, pour it on the rinds, and let them stand in it 
several hours on the back of the stove. Take out into 
cold water, and when cold boil them half an hour in the 
sweet pickle. 

Pipe Muskmdon or Canteloupe. — Pare, and cut into 
thick slices. Pour the boiling syrup over them. The 
next morning pour off the syrup, boil five minutes, and 
pour it boiling hot over the melon. Repeat this on three 
mornings. 

Pineapple. — Slice it, or with a fork pick it off from 
the centre, in small pieces, and prepare as for melon. 



404 The Boston Cook Book. 



* Tomato Catchup. (Mrs. Campbell.) 

Boil one bushel of ripe tomatoes, skins and all, and when 
soft strain through a colander to remove the skins only. 
Mix one cup of salt, two pounds of brown sugar, half an 
ounce of cayenne pepper, three ounces each of ground all- 
spice, mace, and celery seed, two ounces of ground cinna- 
mon, and stir into the tomato. Add two quarts of best 
cider vinegar, and when thoroughly mixed strain through 
a sieve. Pour all that runs through into a large kettle, and 
boil slowly till reduced one half. It is an improvement 
to add a pint of brandy ten minutes before the catchup 
is done, but many think it unnecessary. Put it in small 
bottles, seal, and keep in a cool, dark place. 

Piccallili, or Chow Chow. 



1 peck green tomatoes. 
1 cup salt. 
6 small onions. 

1 large head celery. 

2 cups brown sugar. 



1 teaspoonf ul white pepper. 

1 tablespoonf ul ground cinnamon. 

1 tablespoonf ul ground allspice. 

1 tablespoonf ul mustard. 

2 quarts good, sharp vinegar. 



Chop the tomatoes, mix the salt with them thoroughly, 
and let them stand over night. In the morning pour off 
the water, and chop the onion and celery. Mix the sugar, 
pepper, cinnamon, and mustard. Put in a porcelain kettle 
a layer of tomatoes, onion, celer}*, and spices, and so on 
until all is used, and cover with the vinegar. Cook slowly 
all day, or until the tomatoes are soft. Cauliflower, or 
cabbage, or one quart of cucumbers may be used with the 
tomatoes. Sliced or grated horseradish gives a pleasant 
flavor. 

Pickled Cucumbers. (Mm Harriott Ward.) 

To one hundred and fifty small-sized cucumbers take 
one pint of salt, dissolved in boiling water to cover them. 
Let them remain in a covered vessel for forty-eight hours. 
Then drain, and wipe each one carefully. Put them in a 
pickle-pot or firkin with one large onion, peeled and 



Ufa 



The Boston Cook Book. 



405 



stuck full of cloves, one green pepper, some scraped horse- 
radish, and a small bit of alum. Boil vinegar enough 
to cover them. Fill a muslin bag with one cup of mixed 
spices, — whole cloves, whole allspice, peppercorns, stick 
cinnamon, white mustard seed, and a flake of mace, and 
boil ten minutes with the vinegar. Put this bag in the 
firkin when you pour on the boiling vinegar. 

When cucumbers are gathered fresh from the vines 
every day, the}* may be kept in brine till wanted. Make 
the brine strong enough to float an egg, — a pint of coarse 
salt and six quarts of boiling water, boiled and skimmed 
clear. Pick the cucumbers as they ripen, wash carefully 
without removing the prickles, leave a bit of the stem on, 
and keep them covered with the brine. Soak, as required, 
in fresh cold water two days, and pour boiling spiced 
vinegar over them. 



Mixed Pickles. (Mrs. Poor.) 



150 small cucumbers. 
1 quart small martinoes. 
1 quart small button onions. 
1 medium cauliflower. 
Rind of )4 watermelon. 
8 pints green string beans. 

3 cups salt. 

4 quarts cold water. 

j£ pound horseradish root. 
1 tablespoonful white mustard 
seed. 



1 tablespoonful stick cinnamon! 

broken into half-inch pieces. 
1 tablespoonful whole cloves. 
% tablespoonful peppercorns. 
^2 tablespoonful allspice. 
^ tablespoonful whole mace. 

1 teaspoonful celery seed. 

2 quarts white wine vinegar. 

1 ounce alum. 

2 quarts boiling water. 
1 gill alcohol. 



Wipe the cucumbers and martinoes with a damp cloth. 
Cut the cucumbers lengthwise into quarters, and the mar- 
tinoes into halves. Scald and peel the onions ; wash the 
cauliflower, watermelon rind, and beans ; break the cauli- 
flower into small pieces, and cut the melon rind about 
the size of the pieces of cucumber. Dissolve the salt in 
the cold water. Put the pickles in a large earthen or 
tight wooden vessel, and pour the brine over them ; if they 
are not covered, add more cold water. Put a large earthen 
plate over them, with a clean brick or stone to keep them 



i_ 



1 



406 The Boston Cook Booh. 

under the brine. Let them stand two days, remove them 
from the brine, and wash in cold water. Wash and scrape 
the horseradish root. Pack the pickles in a stone jar or 
firkin. Put all the spices into a bag made of strainer cloth. 
Boil the vinegar, spices, and alum in a porcelain kettle ten 
minutes, skim carefully, add the boiling water, and pour 
immediately over the pickles. If a stronger spice be 
desired, leave the bag on the top of the pickles. Set them 
in a cold place, with the plate and weight over them to 
keep them under the vinegar. In about two weeks add 
the alcohol, and in four weeks they will be ready to use. 

Mustard Pickles. (Mrs. John Sheldon.) 

Equal quantities of small cucumbers, the largest ones 
sliced, green tomatoes sliced, cauliflower picked into flow* 
erets, and small button onions. Keep them covered with 
strongly salted water twenty-four hours. In the morning 
scald the brine, and dissolve in it a bit of alum the size of 
a nutmeg. Pour the boiling brine over the pickles. When 
cold, drain thoroughly and prepare as much vinegar as 
there were quarts of brine. To one quart of vinegar 
use one cup of brown sugar, half a cup of flour, and one 
fourth of a pound of ground mustard. Boil the sugar and 
vinegar. Mix the flour and mustard, and stir the boiling 
vinegar into it, and when smooth pour it over the pickles. 

Canned Fruit. (Mrs. John Sheldon.) 

Put the prepared fruit in a jar, and cover with boiling 
syrup sweetened to taste. On three successive mornings 
drain off the syrup, boil again, and pour over the fruit. 
The last morning, let fruit and syrup come just to the boil- 
ing-point, but do not boil ; then seal immediately. Fruit 
prepared in this way has been tested by the author and 
found perfect. Strawberries preserve their shape and 
never ferment. 



■to*, 



The Boston Cook Book. 407 



GENERAL HINTS ON CARING- AND 
COOKING FOR INVALIDS. " 

Ventilation. — The first condition of comfort and re- 
covery to the patient is that the room be perfectly ven- 
tilated, either directlj' or from fresh air in an adjoining 
room. A sunny exposure and an open fire, and in sum- 
mer an open fireplace, are essential aids. After all 
these points are secured, care must be taken that the air 
be not vitiated by anything in the room. Growing plants 
are more healthful than cut flowers ; unless the room be 
large and airy, the latter should not be allowed for any 
length of time, and even then should be removed as soon 
as their freshness is gone. If possible, avoid having a 
kerosene lamp in a sick-room. The odor is irritating to 
the mucous membrane, and in some conditions positively 
harmful. The wick should never be turned below the 
point of free combustion, either in the room of the sick 
or well. If }'OU wish a dim light, place the lamp outside 
the door, or shade it by a screen. Never turn it down, 
as it will inevitably vitiate the atmosphere. 

Avoid noise in replenishing the fire, by bringing the 
coal in a paper bag, and putting bag and all upon the 
fire. Keep all medicines and everything suggestive of a 
sick-room out of sight. 

The Bed. — Arrange the bed so that the patient may 
be shielded from any draught. Neither sun nor lamp 
light should shine directly in the eyes. Whenever it is 
possible, change the position of the bed, furniture, and 
pictures, that the eye may have something new and inter- 
esting to dwell upon, if such changes interest instead of 



408 The Boston Cook Book. 

distress the invalid. Two small beds, that the patient 
may find relief in change, are desirable ; or, if possible, 
procure an invalid's bed, which admits of many changes oi 
position and the airing and changing of the bed with no 
accompanying fatigue. 

Cleanliness. — It is of the first importance that the bed 
linen and clothing of the patient should be kept fresh by 
frequent- changes, and thoroughly dried -and aired. Be 
careful to supply the needed warmth by light but not over- 
abundant clothing. The patient should be bathed freely ; 
avoid a chili by giving a sponge bath with alcohol and 
warm water, exposing only a part of the body at a time to 
the air, and rub till perfectly dry. 

Wet a cotton-flannel bag, made with the nap side oat, 
in cold water, wring it slightly, and tie it over the broom 
to use in sweeping. Be careful to wash it every time it is 
used. It is quite essential that the floor of a sick-room 
should be kept clean. Remove all dust with a damp 
cloth. The cleansing, drjing, or airing of all objects 
should be done outside of the sick-room. Keep the 
room, the bed, the patient, and everything about yourself 
absolutely neat and clean. 

Conversation. — In extreme sickness let no unnecessary 
word be spoken in a sick-room, and no needless, noisy, 
nor abrupt movements be made. Let the voice be calm 
and clear, neither loud nor whispering. In speaking to 
the patient do so in the way that requires the least effort 
in response, and never consult him about his food. Avoid 
all discussions of the disease, the medicine, and any excit- 
ing topic either with or before him. Do not excite the 
patient by needless conversation with the doctor outside of 
the sick-room. Never whisper, even when the patient is 
asleep or in delirium, because a whisper is more penetrat- 
ing than a low full tone. During convalescence do not 
weary with conversation ; let it always be bright and cheer- 
ful, and, as far as possible, of things outside the sick-room. 
Cultivate the power of talking to, rather than with, a sick 
person. 



The Boston Cook Book. 409 

Conveniences in a Sick-Room. — "In severe sickness 
a glass tube is useful for feeding drinks and gruels ; and 
little white china boats with spouts are also good. A 
wooden tray with legs six or seven inches high, to stand 
upon the bed, is very convenient for serving meals." 

To keep Ice for a Sick- Room. — Tie a square of coarse 
white flannel over a pitcher, leaving a cup-shaped depres- 
sion of the flannel in the pitcher. Put broken ice in the 
flannel, and cover it tightly with a thicker flannel. The 
ice will keep all night, and the water may be poured off as 
wanted. 

In applying hot bandages dip the flannel in boiling 
water, place it in the centre of a coarse towel, and twist 
and wring the ends of the towel ; or place the flannels in a 
steamer over hot water until penetrated with the steam ; 
they will then need no wringing. 

Feeding the Patient. — When feeding the patient, do it 
gently and neatly. Anticipate his wants, and let the food 
be a surprise as far as practicable. In severe sickness give 
nourishment in a small quantity often , and never fail to 
givo it immediately after a long sleep. During convales- 
cence food should be given at longer, but regular intervals. 
If the patient be unable to use a toothbrush, wet a bit of 
soft cloth and wipe the teeth and gums, and give a little 
water or acid drink to soften the dry mucous membrane 
and destroy the bad taste in the mouth, before offering 
any food. 

Let everything prepared for the invalid be arranged to 
please the eye as well as the palate. Serve less than }*ou 
think the patient requires, and give as much variet}' as 
possible, serving in different forms or in different dishes 
if the material must be the same. Hot liquids should be 
hot when they reach the patient, not merely when they 
leave the kitchen. Serve them in a hot pitcher, and pour 
only a little into the hot cup or bowl, and so avoid its run- 
ning over into the saucer or too rapid cooling- Never 
insult the patient by offering him a slice of dough covered 
with charcoal, under the name of toast. When the meal i& 



410 The Boston Cook Book. 

over, remove immediately every trace of food from the 
room. Keep in the sick-room choice fruit or any delica- 
cies which have been sent to the patient only long enough 
to gratify the eye, then remove to a cool place* and serve 
as fresh and daintily as possible. 

Wines or liquors of any kind should never be given 
without the advice of a physician. Young persons do not 
need them, and, in any form of fever, stimulants are posi- 
tively harmful. In some extreme cases, among very old 
people, or where there is a great lack of recuperative 
power, they may be given. 

Visitors. — Visitors should never be admitted to a sick- 
room, except with the consent of the physician. Never 
visit a sick-room when in a violent perspiration or with 
an empty stomach, as then the system more readily re- 
ceives contagion. If obliged to sit up all night with a 
patient, provide yourself with something to eat, if nothing 
more than a cake of chocolate, that there may be no 
needless exhaustion. 

Not the least of the manj T qualifications desirable in a 
good nurse is a thorough knowledge of the nature, use, and 
digestibility, as well as the best methods of preparing dif- 
ferent kinds of food, and of their adaptation to different 
forms of disease. Such knowledge is of still greater im- 
portance to every physician, and fully as essential as the 
study of drugs. Nurses, alas ! are often wholly unquali- 
fied, or not to be obtained at all ; and then that patient 
is fortunate, indeed, who has a physician who can in 
emergency fill the treble office of nurse, cook, and doctor. 

Diet for the Invalid. 

First Condition. — Sometimes the system from over- 
taxation, either mental or ph3 T sical, needs a period of 
complete rest or comparative inaction ; or, as in the com- 
mencement of many forms of sickness, the diet should be 
food which merely satisfies the hunger and which soothes 
and reduces inflammation and quenches thirst, but does 



The Boston Cook Booh 411 

not nourish nor stimulate. Foods proper at such times 
come under the head of starchy gruels, gelatinous soups 
and jellies, oranges, grapes, etc., and mucilaginous, acid, 
and aromatic drinks. 

• 

Flour or Arrowroot Gruel. 



1 cup boiling water. 
1 ealtspoonf ill salt. 



2 teaspoonf uls flour, wet in cold 
water. 



Cornstarch and rice-flour gruels are made in a similar 
manner. Use a little more of wheat flour than of the 
others. 

Mix the flour and salt, and make into a smooth thin 
paste with cold water, then stir it into the boiling water. 
Cook five minutes or until the "desired consistency is ob- 
tained. Strain ; then add sugar, if preferred, and thin 
with a little milk. If intended for a fever patient, a little 
lemon juice improves the flavor ; if for a patient with sum- 
mer complaint, boil with the gruel half an inch stick of 
cinnamon or a little nutmeg, — the spice will help to re- 
duce the laxative condition. Sick people soon tire of 
sweets, and gruels should be sweetened only slightly, if 
at all. Flour and starchy gruels should not be given in 
typhoid fever, or when the disease is located in the intes- 
tines. Nor should they ever be used in excess, as, 'being 
rapidly swallowed, the} r are unaffected by the alkaline 
action of the saliva, and pass through the stomach un- 
changed and severely tax the intestines. They should 
be kept in the mouth and mingled with the saliva before 
swallowing. 

Milk Porridge. 



2 dozen raisins, quartered. 
2 cups milk. 



1 tablespoonful flour. 
Salt to taste. 



Boil the raisins in a little water twenty minutes. Let 
the water boil away, and add the milk. When boiling, 
add the flour rubbed to a thin paste with a little cold 
milk. Boil eight or ten minutes. Season with salt and 



412 The Boston Cook Book. 



strain. Or omit the raisins, and add sugar to taste; 
or add the beaten white of one egg after it comes from 
the stove. 

Barley Gruel. 

Boil one ounce of pearl barley a few minutes, to cleanse 
it. Pour off the water, add one quart of cold water and 
half a teaspoonful of salt, and simmer one hour, or until 
reduced one half. Strain it ; sweeten to taste, and add a 
little lemon or nutmeg, if desired. Barley contains muci- 
lage, and is soothing and refreshing in fevers and gastric 
inflammation. 

Indian Meal Gruel. 

1 tablespoonf ul flour. * | 1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonf uls corn meal. | 1 quart boiling water. 

Mix the flour, meal, and salt. Make into a thin paste 
with a little cold water, and stir into the boiling water. 
Boil thirty minutes, stirring often ; thin with milk or 
cream. Milk may be used instead of water by mak- 
ing the gruel in a double boiler. Indian meal gruel 
requires longer time for cooking than any purety starchy 
gruels. 

No. 2. — Wet one heaping teaspoonful of meal and 
one saltspoonful of salt in a little cold water, and stir into 
one cup of boiling water. Boil slowly thirty minutes. 

Indian corn meal is heating in its nature, and should 
never be given where there is any inflammatory condition 
of the system. If given during convalescence after scarlet 
fever, it sometimes produces glandular swellings. When 
there is a deficiency of natural warmth, and no inflamma- 
tion, it may be given without harm. 

Oatmeal Gruel. 

2 tablespoonf uls oatmeal. 1 quart boiling water. 

J^ teaspoonful salt. 

Boil one hour. Strain, and serve with milk or cream. 



The Boston Cook Book. 413 



No. 2. — Pound half a cup of coarse oatmeal until it is 
mealy. Put it in a tumbler, and fill the tumbler with cold 
water. Stir well ; let it settle ; then pour off the mealy 
water into a saucepan. Fill again, and pour off the water, 
and again repeat this, being careful each time not to dis- 
turb the sediment in the bottom of the tumbler. Then boil 
the water twenty minutes. Add one saltspoonful of salt. 
If very thick, add a little cream or milk. Strain and serve 
hot. Beef essence or beef tea may be used in place of cream. 
This is the most palatable and convenient way of making 
gruel from oatmeal. 



Farina Gruel. 



1 tablespoonfui Hecker's farina. 
1 saltspoonful salt. 



1 cup boiling water. 
1 cup milk. 



Put all but the milk in the double boiler, and cook fifteen 
minutes, or until it thickens, then add the milk and boil 
again. Sweeten to taste. 

Farina is a granulated preparation of the inner portion 
of the finest wheat, freed from bran and floury dust. It 
contains nitrogenous or flesh-forming material, is easily 
digested, and is a more nutritive food for invalids and 
children than cornstarch, sago, arrowroot, or tapioca, 
which contain only starch. 

Cracker Gruel. 



4 tablesp. powdered cracker. 
1 cup boiling water. 

Boil up once and serve. 



1 cup milk. 

% teaspoonful salt 



Egg Gruel. 



1 egg (yolk beaten well). 
1 teaspoonful sugar. 



1 cup hot milk. 

White of egg, beaten till foamy 



Flavor with nutmeg or lemon. Good for a violent cold, 
if taken very hot after retiring. 



41 4 The Boston Cook Book. 



Panada, No. 1. 



1 cup stoned raisins. 

1 quart water. 

2 slices toasted bread, or 



1 cup bread crumbs. 

2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonf al sugar. 



Boil the raisins one hour. Skim out the raisins, and 
add the bread to the boiling water ; boil fifteen minutes, 
stirring well. Beat the eggs, add the sugar, and pour the 
panada over them, stirring all the time. 

No. 2. — Split two Boston or Graham crackers. Put 
them into a bowl, sprinkle with sugar and salt, and cover 
with boiling water. Set the bowl in a pan of boiling 
water for half an hour, or until the crackers are clear. 
Slide them out into a hot saucer, and serve very hot with 
sugar and cream. 

iVo. 3. — Boil one tabUspoonful of cracker crumbs ^ye 
minutes in one cup of boiling water, slightly sweetened, 
salted, and flavored with lemon. 

Oatmeal Mush for Children or Invalids. 

1 cup granulated oatmeal. 1 scant quart boiling water. 

}£ teaspoonf ul salt. 

Put the meal and salt in the double boiler, pour on the 
boiling water, and cook two or three hours. Remove 
the cover just before serving, and stir with a fork to let the 
steam escape. If the water in the lower boiler be strongly 
salted, the meal will cook more quickly. Serve with sugar, 
or salt, and cream. Baked sour apples, apple sauce, and 
apple jelly are delicious eaten with the oatmeal. They 
should be served with the mush, and the cream and sugar 
poured over the whole. They give the acid flavor which 
so many crave in the morning. 

Coarse oatmeal is not suitable for any form of water 
brash, acidity, or bowel irritation. It often causes erup- 
tions on the skin in warm weather. 



The Boston Cook Book. 415 



Indian Meal Mush. 



1 cwp corn meal. 
3^ teaspoonf ul salt. 



1 cup cold milk. 
1 pint boiling water. 



Mix the meal and salt with the cold milk. Stir this 
gradually into the boiling water. Cook half an hour in a 
double boiler, stirring often. 

Graham Mush. 

Mix half a cup of Graham flov.r and half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Make it into a thin smooth paste with a little 
cold water. Stir it into one pint of boiling water. Cook 
twenty minutes, stirring often. Serve with cream. 

Rye Mush is made in the same manner, and sometimes 
served with molasses. 

Gluten Mush. — Use one cup of gluten to one pint of 
boiling water, and cook as above. Being destitute of 
starch, it will not thicken like Eye Mush. 

Brain Food. {Health Food Co.) 

Wet one cup of Brain Food in a little cold water, and 
stir it into one quart of salted boiling water. Cook over 
hot water one to two hours. Eat, hot or cold, with sugar 
and cream. 

Rice Water or Jelly. 

2 tablespoonfiils rice. I Salt and sugar to taste. 

1 quart cold water. | 

Pick over and wash the rice, and cook in water one hour, 
or till the rice is dissolved. Add salt and sugar to taste. 
If intended for jelly, add lemon juice and strain into a 
mould. When cold, serve with sugar and cream. If to 
be used as a drink, add more hot water, enough to make a 
thin liquid, and boil longer. Add half a square inch of 
stick cinnamon, and strain. Serve hot or cold. 

Rice is easily digested and almost wholly assimilated ; 
it is good in diarrhoea or dysentery. 



416 The Boston Cook Booh 



Tapioca Jelly. 



J£ cup pearl tapioca. 
1 pint cold water. 
1 saltspoonf ul salt. 



1 tablespoonf ul lemon juice. 
1 heaping tablespoonful sugar. 



Pick over and wash the tapioca. Add the cold water, 
and cook in a double boiler until entirety dissolved. Then 
add the salt, lemon juice, and sugar. Turn into a mould. 
Serve with sugar and cream. Half a cup of strawberry, 
raspberry, or blackberry jam or currant jelly may be used 
in place of lemons. 



Irish Moss Jelly. 



% cup Irish moss. 
1 pint boiling water. 



1 lemon. 

% cup sugar. 



Soak the moss in cold water until soft. Pick over and 
wash again. Then put it into the boiling' water, and sim- 
mer until it is dissolved. Add the lemon juice and sugar. 
Strain into a mould. Use currant jelly in place of lemon, 
or steep four or five figs with the moss. 

Sea mosses contain bromine and iodine, and are useful 
in rheumatic affections. Iceland moss may be used in the 
same manner. This, when dried, contains more starch 
than potatoes, and more flesh food than oatmeal or corn. 



2 tablespoonf uls lemon juice. 

3 tablespoonf uls sugar. 
2 cloves. 



Restorative Jelly. 

% box gelatine. 

1 cup port wine. 

1 tablesp. powdered gum arabic. 

Put all together in a glass jar, and cover closely. Place 
the jar on a trivet in a kettle of cold water. Heat it slowly, 
and when the mixture is dissolved, stir well and strain. 
Pour into a shallow dish, and when cool cut it into small 
squares. This is good for an old person or a very weak 
patient 

Mutton Broth. 

To make it quickly for an invalid, chop one pound of 
lean juicy mutton very fine ; pour over it one pint of cold 



The Boston Cook Book. 417 

water. Let it stand until the water is very red, then heat 
it slowly. Let it simmer ten minutes. Strain, season, and 
add two tabU8poonfuU of soft-boiled rice, or thicken it 
slightly with rice flour wet with cold water. Serve hot. 
When given to a person with a severe cold, or a consump- 
tive, the fat should not be removed, as it is soothing to 
the chest, and when absorbed by the rice or some starchy 
material is not uninviting to the eye. For a fever patient, 
tne fat should be removed. When you have not time to 
cool the broth, a piece of soft tissue paper passed over the 
surface helps to take up any globules of fat which will 
not come off with a spoon. 

Barley Soup. 

Remove the fat and bones from one pound of the neck of 
mutton. Cut the meat into dice, and add to it one table- 
spoonful of well-washed barley and one pint of cold water. 
Heat slowly, and simmer two hours. Put the bones into 
one cup of cold water, and boil gently half an hour. Then 
strain into the meat and barley. Season with salt Skim 
off the fat, and serve with whole-wheat or gluten wafers. 

Calves'-Foot Jelly or Broth. 



4 calves' feet. 

4 quarts cold water. 

1 cup sugar. 

2 lemons. 



2 inch stick cinnamon. 
1 inch blade mace. 

3 eggs (whites and shells). 
1 pint wine. 



Scald the feet, and clean thoroughly. Split, break the 
bones, and put them into the cold water. Heat slowly, 
and simmer gently until reduced to three pints. Strain, 
and when cool remove the fat. Add the other ingredients 
except the wine. Put it over the fire, and stir until hot. 
Let it boil five minutes, or till a thick scum has formed. 
Set it back on the stove ; skim, and add the wine. Strain 
through a fine napkin into a shallow dish. When readj* to 
serve, cut it into blocks, or break it up lightly with a fork. 
If intended for broth, simply remove the fat, season to 

27 



4i 8 Ths Boston Cook Booh 

taste, and stir it into a beaten egg ; or add sa^o or tapi- 
oca, having first soaked and boiled it till soft. Veal broth 
is not very palatable in itself ; and as it does not contain 
the nutritive qualities of beef or mutton broth, it is not 
well to use it in the sick-room except for a variety. 

Chicken Jelly or Broth. 

Clean a small chicken. Disjoint and cut the meat into 
half-inch pieces. . Remove all the fat. Break or pound the 
bones. Dip the feet into boiling water, and scald until the 
skin and nails will peel off. The feet contain gelatine, and 
when well cleaned ma}' be used for jell} 7 . Cover the meat, 
feet, and bones with cold water ; heat very slowly, and sim- 
mer till the meat is tender. Strain, and when cool remove 
the fat. Season with saM, pepper, and lemon, and add the 
shell and white of one egg. Put it over the fire, and stir 
well until hot. Let it boil five minutes. Skim, and strain 
through a fine napkin. Pour it into small cups, and cool 
it if intended for jelly. When the patient can take it, 
small dice of the breast meat may be moulded in the jelly. 
Serve hot, without clearing, if intended for broth. 

• 

Beef Jelly or Broth. 

Prepare the same as for Bouillon (page 131). If in- 
tended for jelly, clear it as directed for Clear Soup. 

Barley Water. 



1 tablespoonf ul pearl barley. 
3 blocks sugar. 



J^ lemon. 

1 quart boiling water. 



Wash the barley in cold water, then pour off the water, 
and put the barley, sugar, and lemon into the boiling water, 
and let it stand covered and warm for three hours ; then 
strain it. Currant jelly or orange juice may be used in- 
stead of lemon. This is a valuable demulcent in colds, 
affections of the chest, hectic fever, strangury and other 
diseases of the bladder or urinary organs. 




The Boston Cook Book. 419 



Gum Water. 



1 ounce clean gum arabic, and 
)*2 ounce sugar, dissolved in 



1 pint boiling water. 
1 lemon (juice). 



When dissolved, add the lemon juice, and strain through 
a fine strainer. This is soothing in inflammation of the 
mucous membrane. 

Toast Water. — Toast one pint of white or brown bread 
crusts very brown, but be careful not to burn them ; add 
one pint of cold water y let it stand for one hour, then 
strain, and add cream and sugar to taste. The nourish- 
ment in the bread is easily absorbed when taken in this 
liquid form. 

Crust Coffee. — Pour one pint of boiling water over 
two slices of brown toast. Steep ten minutes, and strain. 
Add sugar and cream to taste. 

Corn Tea and Rice Coffee. — Brown one cup of dried 
sweet corn or rice. Pound or grind it fine. Add one pint 
of cold water, and steep it one hour. Strain, and serve 
with sugar and cream. These are pleasant and nourishing 
beverages. 

Slippery-Elm Tea. — Pour one cup of boiling water 
upon one teaspoonful of slippery-elm poioder or a piece 
of the bark. When- cool, strain and flavor with lemon 
juice and sugar. This is soothing in any inflammation 
of the mucous membrane. 

Acid Fruit Drinks. 

Pour boiling water on mashed cranberries, barberries, 
or whortleberries. When cold, strain, and sweeten to taste. 

Jy7>. 2. — Stir a tablespoonful of an}' acid jelly or fruit 
syrup into one tumbler of ice tcater. 

2fo. 3. — Dissolve one tablespoonful of cream of tartar 
in one pint of water. Sweeten to taste. 

Apple Tea. — Roast two large sour apples, cover with 
boiling water ; when cool, pour off the water and strain. 
Add sugar to taste- 



420 The Boston CooJc Book. 

Jelly and Ice. — With a large needle or pin, chip half a 
cup of ice into bits as large as a pea. Mix with it about 
the same quantity of lemon, currant, blackberry, or bar- 
berry jelly. Ver}' refreshing in fevers. 

Tamarind Water. — Boil two ounces of tamarinds with 
four ounces of stoned raisins in three pints of water for 
one hour. Strain and cool. 

Baked Lemon. — Bake a lemon or sour orange twenty 
minutes in a moderate oven. When done, open at one 
end and take out the inside. Sweeten with sugar or mo- 
lasses. This is excellent for hoarseness and pressure on 
the lungs. 

Lemonade. — Squeeze the juice from one lemon and 
add one tablespoonful of sugar. Pour on one cup of 
boiling water, and cool. Or take hot for a cold, after 
retiring. 

Flaxseed Lemonade. — Pour one quart of boiling water 
over four tablespoonfuls of whole flaxseed, and steep three 
hours. Strain and sweeten to taste, and add the juice of 
two lemons. Add a little more water if the liquid seem too 
thick. This is soothing in colds. 

Irish-Moss Lemonade. — Soak, pick over, and wash 
one quarter of a cup of Irish moss. Pour on one pint of 
boiling water. Heat to the boiling-point, but not boil, 
and keep it at that temperature half an hour. Strain, and 
squeeze into it the juice of one lemon, or enough to give it 
an acid taste. Sweeten to taste. Add acid phosphate in 
place of the lemon, if preferred. 

Wine Whey. — Boil one cup of new milk^ and add one 
cup of wine. Let it stand on the back of the stove five 
minutes. Strain, and sweeten the whey. 

The whey, or water, of milk contains the sugar, salt, and 
other saline bodies necessary for digestion and the repair 
of the mineral part of the body. 

Herb Teas. 

Pour one cup of boiling water over one tablespoonful of 
the herbs. Cover the bowl, set it over the teakettle, and 



The Boston Cook Book. 421 

steep ten minutes. Sweeten if desired. Mullein tea is 
good for inflammation of the lungs ; Chamomile tea, for 
sleeplessness ; Calamus and Catnip tea, for colds and 
infants' colic ; Cinnamon tea, for hemorrhages ; Water- 
melon-seed and Pumpkin- seed tea, for strangury and 
summer complaint. A few sprigs of sage, burnet, balm, 
and sorrel, half a lemon, sliced, and three pints of boiling 
water, sweetened to taste, and covered closely until cold, 
makes an agreeable drink for a fever patient. 

Another Condition in sickness occurs when, after long- 
continued, prostrating, or rapidly wasting disease, the sys- 
tem demands immediate nourishment to supply that waste, 
or when there is a lack of nutrition from any cause. Food 
that contains the most nourishment in the most easilv as- 
similated form is now needed ; but the plrysician should 
always be consulted as to the food suitable during the dif- 
ferent diseases. Liquid food is most suitable, and should 
be food as well as drink. In nearty all cases of fever milk 
is given when the patient can take it. Two or three grains 
of pepsin in a cup of milk or broth facilitate its digestion. 
In typhoid fever milk has often proved of great value, and 
is now generally recommended by the medical faculty in all 
cases of scarlet fever, nervous disorder, and all diseases 
arising from imperfect nutrition. It keeps up the strength 
of the patient, acts well upon the stomach, soothes the in- 
testines, and promotes sleep. It should be taken slowly to 
prevent the curdling in a dense mass which may occur if too 
much be taken at once. A pint of hot milk taken slowty, 
every four hours, will often check the most violent diar- 
rhoea and dj'sentery. It should never be boiled, only 
scalded. 

Eggnog or broth, meat broth, farina and oatmeal gruel, 
and port wine jell}*, are all suitable at such times ; but beef 
juice and tea are most generally used by physicians. They 
afford a fluid and easilv assimilated form of food, and have 
a remarkable power of restoring the vigorous action of the 
heart, and dissipating the sense of exhaustion following 



422 The Boston Cook Book. 

severe, prolonged exertion. When taken alone, the3 T are 
stimulating rather than nutritive, and a patient would soon 
starve if he did not have the addition of the fibrine of the 
meat or of some farinaceous food, like bread crumbs or 
oatmeal. 

• Beef Essence and Beef Tea. 

Beef essence is the pure juice of the meat. This is given 
where a patient needs much nourishment in a small com- 
pass. Beef tea is the juice of the meat diluted with water. 
It is a mistake to think that any beef because it is lean 
or cheap is good enough for beef tea. It will do for the 
soup-kettle, but not for those who are ill. Meat for beef 
tea should be lean, juicy, and of good flavor. Every par- 
ticle of fat, skin, and membrane must be removed. The 
top of the round and the back and middle of the rump con- 
tain the most and the best-flavored juice. It costs more 
per pound than some other pieces ; but as it yields nearly 
double the amount of juice, it is really cheaper. The ten- 
derloin is often recommended for sick persons. It should 
never be used for beef tea, as it contains very little j«ice 
and lacks flavor. When the tender fibre of the meat is 
desired, it ma}' be broiled, and served with the juice from 
some tougher steak. 

Broiling is the quickest, and sometimes the most 
palatable, way of preparing both essence and tea in an 
emergency. 

Drawing and heating the meat and juice is best where 
a little nourishment is to be given often, and where all the 
elements of the meat are needed. Soaking in cold water, 
then straining, and heating the juice only, is the most 
economical wa} T , as more than twice the usual amount of 
juice may be obtained by adding more water when the 
meat has not been heated. 

The albuminous juices of meat coagulate at 160° ; if the 
tea be allowed to boil, they become hard, and settle almost 
immediately when served. Many make the mistake of 
straining the tea, or leaving the sediment untouched. If 



The Boston Cook Book. 423 

the tea be heated just enough to make it palatable, it will 
hold the juices in solution, not separated, and will be thick, 
and of the color of chocolate, and much more palatable 
and nutritious than when boiled. 

Broiled Beef Essence. — Broil half a pound of round 
steak one or two minutes, or until the juice will flow. Cut 
it into small pieces. Squeeze the juice into a bowl placed 
over warm water. Salt, and serve without reheating. Or 
pour it over a slice of hot dry toast. 

Broiled Beef Tea. — Add half a cup of boiling water 
to the meat after broiling as above. 

Bottled Beef Essence. — Put two pounds of round 
steak, cut in small pieces, into a jar without water. Place 
the jar, covered closely, on a trivet in a kettle of cold 
water. Heat gradually, and keep it not quite at the 
boiling-point for two hours, or till the meat is white. 
Strain, pressing the meat to obtain all the juice ; season 
with salt. Or place the jar in a moderate oven for three 
hours. The liquid thus obtained contains all the nutritive 
parts of the meat. • It may be kept in the refrigerator, 
and a small portion heated (not boiled), as wanted. Or it 
may be made into beef tea by diluting with boiling water. 
Beef essence given ice cold is sometimes more agreealble 
to a fever patient. 

Bottled Beef Tea. — Add one cup of cold water to the 
meat in the jar, and make as above. When the patient 
can take a little solid food, add two tablespoo-nfuls of 
stale bread crumbs to the beef tea, or mix with it oat- 
meal gruel, or add one teaspoonful of. finely chopped raw 
meat. 

Stewed Beef Essence. — Cut half a pound of round 
steak into small pieces, season with one saltspoonful of 
salt, press it with a pestle or potato-masher, and let it 
stand in a covered bowl half an hour. Pour off the juice, 
and heat, but do not boil it. Serve immediately, without 
straining. 

As the salt without water will draw out only a small 
portion of the juice from the meat, a beef tea may be made 



424 The Boston Cook Book. 

from the scraps of meat left by adding one cup of cold 
water to the meat, and letting it stand two hours. Then 
strain and heat the liquid ; or the scraps of meat ma}' be 
put in the soup-kettle. 

Economical Beef Tea, — Cut one pound of juicy rump 
8teak into small pieces, and add one cup of cold water. 
Let it stand in a covered bowl several hours. When 
ready to serve, squeeze the meat and put it into another 
bowl. Strain the juice already obtained, add salt to taste, 
and heat it just enough to be palatable, but not enough to 
curdle it. Serve at once, while hot. If it be heated over 
the fire, stir constantly, and take it off the moment it looks 
thick and is hot ; or heat it carefully over hot water. Add 
another cup of cold water to the scraps of meat, and soak 
again. Often the third cup of tea may be obtained from 
the same meat. This is excellent for hard-working people 
to take, in times of great exhaustion, before a hearty meal 
It is one of the best and most easily prepared forms of 
soup or meat tea. 

Dr. MitcheWs Beef Tea. — One pound of lean beef cut 
fine ; add one pint of cold water and five drops of muri- 
atic acid. Put into a glass jar. Place the jar in a pan of 
water at 110°, and keep it at that temperature for two 
hours. Then strain through thick muslin until the meat 
is dry, or press the juice out by squeezing. The acid 
makes the tea agreeable to a patient with fever, and also 
aids in drawing out the juices of the meat. 

Raw Beef Sandwiches. — Scrape fine a small piece of 
fresh, juicy, tender, .raw beef. Season highly with salt 
and pepper. Spread it on thin slices of bread, put them 
together like a sandwich, and cut into small squares or 
diamonds. This will often tempt a patient who could not 
otherwise take raw meat. The sandwiches are sometimes 
made more palatable by toasting them slightly. 

Eggnog. — Beat the yolk of one egg ; add one table* 
spoonful of sugar, and beat to a cream. Add one table- 
spoonful of wine or brandy, and half a cup of milk. Beat 
the white of the egg to a froth, and stir in lightlj\ Omit 



The Boston Cook Book. 425 

the milk when more condensed nourishment is required, 
or the wine, if not approved by the physician. It is more 
palatable when made with the milk. Whipped cream may 
be substituted for the milk. In man}' cases it is desirable 
not to have the white beaten to a froth, as it causes wind 
in the stomach. 

Portable Beef Tea. — Two pounds of beef, cut fine, 
and half a box of gelatine. Soak together in one pint of 
cold water one hour, squeezing often. Heat to nearly the 
boiling-point. Strain, pressing all the juice from the meat, 
fill a glass jar with the juice, place the jar in water, 
and heat till the water outside the jar boils'. Seal while 
hot. Dissolve two teaspoonfuls of the above prepara- 
tion in half a cup of boiling water, add a few grains of 
salt, and serve at once. A convenient form of food for 
travellers. 

Broiled Beef Pidp. — Scrape raw beef to a pulp, make 
it into small cakes, and broil as steak. Season with salt 
and a few grains of cayenne pepper, and serve hot. 

Egg Tea and Coffee. — Beat the yolk of one egg ; add 
one tahlespoonful of sugar, and beat to a cream ; add one 
cup of tea or coffee, either hot or cold, and half a cup of 
cream. Stir in lightly the beaten white of the egg, and 
serve at once. 

Egg and Beef Tea — Add one cup of hot beef tea to 
the egg, beaten as above. 

Dishes for Convalescence. 

When the crisis of disease is past, the system needs 
gradual but complete nutrition, and the appetite is clamor- 
ous, fickle, or perhaps altogether wanting. Then is the 
time most critical for the patient, and most trying to the 
tact, skill, and patience of the nurse. Many a person has 
been carried safely through a long and distressing illness, 
only to succumb at last to injudicious feeding, because of 
the nurse's ignorance or his own indiscretion. When solid 
food can be safely given, the patient ma} T take it in any of 
the forms given in the preceding rules. 



426 Thd Boston Cook Book. 

The following dishes may also be used : broiled squab, 
venison, chicken, chop, steak, salmon, chicken panada, 
boiled halibut, roast beef, mutton, cream toast, eggs, and 
oysters (except when especially forbidden by the physi- 
cian), sweetbreads, baked potatoes, asparagus, onions, 
macaroni, custards, Charlotte Russe, snow pudding, ice- 
cream, sherbet, blanc-mange, Bavarian cream, sponge cake, 
simple puddings, stewed fruits, and many others, — receipts 
for which will be found as indicated in the table of lessons 
in the Nurse's Course. 

Broiling for the Invalid {Broiled Steak or Venison) . — 
Wipe with a clean wet cloth. Grease the gridiron with a 
bit of the fat. Broil over a clear fire, turning as often as 
you can count ten. Cook four minutes if the steak be 
about one inch thick ; not longer, as further cooking dries 
up the juices and destroys some of the nutritive qualities. 
Be careful to serve on a hot platter, and season with salt, 
and with pepper and butter if approved. Birds, chicken 
breasts, fish, and chops are better when seasoned, and 
wrapped in buttered paper, and then broiled, as this pre- 
vents them from burning or becoming too dry. Birds, fish, 
and chops are better, and more conveniently eaten, if boned 
before broiling. 

Broiled Steak, No. 2. — Broil Jialf a pound of round 
steak and one slice of tenderloin. With a meat or lemon 
squeezer squeeze the juice from the round over the tender- 
loin. Season, and serve hot. 

Chicken Panada. — One cup of cold roasted or boiled 
chicken, pounded to a paste. Add half a cup of stale 
bread crumbs, and enough boiling chicken liquor to make 
it a thick gruel. Salt to taste. Boil one minute, and 
serve hot. When the chicken has been roasted, boil the 
bones to obtain the liquor. 

Chicken Custard. — Scald together one cup of strong 
chicken stock and o?ie cup of cream.' Pour it over the 
well-beaten yolks of three eggs, and cook in a double boiler 
till slightly thickened. Salt to taste, and serve cool in 
custard cups. 



The Boston Cook Book. 427 



Crackers and Orange Marmalade. — Toast three crack- 
ers slightly. Dip them quickly into boiling salted water. 
Spread with a little butter , and put a layer of orange mar- 
malade, or any other jelly or preserve, between them. Set 
them in the oven a few minutes before serving. 

Racahout des Arabes. (Mrs. Devercux.) 

}£ pound best French chocolate. I )^ pound arrowroot 

1 pound rice flour. | % pound loaf sugar, sifted. 

These materials are to be thoroughly mixed and rubbed 
together. A dessert spoonful of this mixture should be 
slightly wet with milk or water, then stirred into one pint 
of boiling milk, and boiled five minutes. This is excellent 
food for invalids or convalescents. Serve hot, as a bever- 
age ; or make much thicker, to be eaten cold as a delicate 
pudding. 

Laban. (Miss JParloa. ) — One quart of new milk, into 
which stir one tablespoonful of yeast. Let it stand in a 
cool place to harden, which will take from three to twenty- 
four hours. When hard, take a tablespoonful of the mix- 
ture, and stir it into a quart of new milk, and set away to 
harden. This is " Laban." It should be eaten with sugar 
and cream. If a constant supply be needed, reserve one 
tablespoonful each day for the next preparation. This re- 
ceipt is furnished bj' a lady who obtained it in Syria, and 
who advises a second or a third trial if the first attempt be 
unsuccessful. The dish is often palatable when the stomach 
is too weak for almost any other solid food. This is similar 
to Koumiss, or fermented mare's milk. 

Ash Cake. (Mrs. Henderson.) — Wet corn meal, salted 
to taste, with enough cold water to make a soft dough. Let 
it stand half an hour, or longer. Mould into a cake one or 
two inches thick, as j t ou prefer. Place it on a clean spot 
on the hearth, and cover with wood ashes. Bake from 
half to three quarters of an hour. Wipe before eating. 
The alkaline properties left by the ashes in the crust render 
it especially good for dyspeptics with an acid stomach. 



1 



428 The Boston Cook Book. 



Gluten Gems. 



2 cups gluten. 

% teaspoonf ul salt. 

2 teaspoonf uls baking-powder. 



2 tableepoonf uls sugar. 

legg. 

2 cups water or milk. 



Bake in very hot buttered gem pans, in a hot oven, half 
an hour. 

Diet for Infants and Young Children. 

Let verj r young children have mothers milk above every- 
thing else ; but if this be impossible, dissolve one ounce of 
sugar of milk or loaf sugar in three fourths of a pint of 
boiling water, and mix, as required for use, with an equal 
quantity of fresh cow's milk. Give it, slightly warm, 
from a sweet, clean bottle. Sugar of milk is quite ex- 
pensive, but it is very much better for an infant than cane 
sugar. 

Teething children should have the milk from but one 
cow ; the cow should not be fed on green corn nor sour 
apples, as these produce acidity in the milk. A little 
thin, well-boiled oatmeal, or farina gruel, may be added 
to the milk. 

For summer complaint, use scalded (not boiled) milk, 
prepared flour, roasted rice, boiled, mashed, and thinned 
with milk ; also rice jelty or barley gruel. Avoid all purely 
starchy gruels, like arrowroot, sago, and cornstarch, upon 
which many children are fed to death. 

For constipation, a little salt added to cow's milk is 
often beneficial ; also gruel made from prepared corn meal 
and wheat flour, and oatmeal gruel. For older children 
use oatmeal, hominy or farina mush, and ripe fruit. 

Prepared Flour {for Infants) . — Tie one pint of 
flour in a stout cloth, put it into boiling water, and let it 
boil three hours. Turn out the flour ball, and scrape off 
the gluten which will be found in a mass on the outside of 
the ball and is not desirable. The inside will prove a dry 
powder, which is very astringent. Grate a tablespoonful 
of this powder from the ball as wanted ; wet it in cold 



The Boston Cook Book. 429 



milk or water, and stir it into one cup of boiling milk. 
Boil five minutes. Add a little salt. 

This is excellent for teething children. If they be 
troubled with constipation, use one quarter part corn 
meal and three quarters wheat flour, boil as above, and 
stir some of the grated lump into boiling cream and water, 
using one part cream to six parts water. For an infant 
the preparation should be thin enough to be taken from a 
bottle. Flour, after being cooked in this way and then 
reduced to a finely divided form, loses its adhesive 
quality ; and the particles are more easily separated and 
digested. 

Children and growing persons need the most nutritious 
food, and plenty of it at regular intervals ; but nothing 
stimulating nor exciting. They should be given, and com- 
pelled to take, sufficient time for eating ; and should be 
taught to masticate everything slowly and thoroughly. 
They should eat milk ; whole- wheat and cornmeal bread ; 
oatmeal, farina, and hominy mush ; plenty of ripe fruit 
raw, and stewed fruit sweetened ; beef, mutton, veni- 
son, and poultr3 T , either roasted, broiled, or boiled ; baked 
potatoes, and asparagus ; green peas, beans, and corn, if 
every hull be first broken or cut ; eggs, omelets, and cus- 
tards ; plain sponge cake ; ice-cream, if not too hard 
and cold, and eaten slowly ; simple fruit and bread 
puddings ; fruit, tapioca, and farina ; plain gingerbread 
and molasses cookies ; whole-wheat cookies and wafers. 
Children should avoid hot bread and griddle-cakes ; 
fried meats or cakes or doughnuts ; highty seasoned 
food ; rich gravies ; rich pastry and cake ; pickles, pre- 
serves, all stimulants such as tea or coffee ; raisins, un- 
less cooked three hours and stoned ; sago, arrowroot, and 
other purely starchy foods, except when combined with 
milk, eggs, or fruit, and eaten with sugar and cream ; and 
especially veal and pork. Veal is an immature meat, lack- 
ing in nourishment ; and of the free use of pork, apart 
from the question of the trichinae, a majority of physi- 
cians believe that it is largely responsible for the forms of 



430 The Boston Cook Book. 



scrofulous disease that have so undermined the health of 
civilized nations. 

What are termed the "fancies" of delicate persons, 
especially children, are often natural instincts, pointing 
out what is beneficial to the system, or the reverse. All 
children have a fondness for sugar, which should be grati- 
fied in moderation rather than repressed. Their desire for 
it is natural, else it would not have been placed in the milk 
which forms their only nourishment in infanc}*. But candy, 
rich preserves, and cake are not the best form of sweets 
for children. Pure block sugar or maple sugar is better 
than any form of candy. It should never be allowed be- 
tween meals, but may be given occasionally as a part of 
the dessert. The habit of munching candy between meals 
destroys the appetite, disturbs the digestion, and is the 
cause of much illness among children. Children troubled 
with worms should avoid sugar, preserves, and green 
vegetables. 

Milk should enter largely into the diet of children. It con- 
tains caseine, or flesh-forming material ; cream and sugar, 
which are heat producers ; mineral salts, for the bony 
structure ; and water, as a solvent for all the other materials 
necessar}' in nutrition. It should be used with discretion, 
however ; not drunk immoderately, but taken slowly as 
food after the pattern given by nature. Milk as taken is 
a fluid ; but as soon as it meets the acid of the gastric 
juice, it is changed to a soft, curd} 7 , cheese-like substance, 
and then must be digested, and the stomach is overtasked 
if too much be taken at once. A large glass of milk swal- 
lowed suddenly will form in the stomach a lump of dense, 
cheesy curd, which may even prove fatal to a weak stomach. 
Under the action of the stomach this cheesv mass will turn 
over and over like a heavy weight ; and as the gastric juice 
can only attack its surface, it digests very slowly. But 
this same milk, taken slowty, or with dry toast, light rolls, 
or soft dry porridge, form* a porous lump through which the 
gastric juice can easity pass, and which breaks up everj 
time the stomach turns it over. Milk should be slightly 



The Boston Cook Book. 431 

salted, and eaten with bread stuffs or sipped by the 
spoonful. 

Cow's milk produces less heat than human milk ; a child 
would grow thin upon it unless a little sugar were added. 
Wheat flour has such an excess of heat-producing mate- 
rial as would fatten a child unduly, and .should have cow's 
milk added to it to reduce its fattening power. 

Hints on Diet for Invalids. 

Vanilla should not be used as a flavoring in food for 
sick people. It is medicinal ;• and all medicines are more 
or less poisonous, and are not to be taken as food. 

Pepper is allowable when a slight stimulant is needed. 
It should be white or cayenne pepper, as these are less irri- 
tating than black pepper. 

Boiled onions are soothing to the mucous membrane. 
In inflammation of the stomach they are often helpful 
when a piece of white bread could not be digested. 

Broiled or roasted squab, venison, chicken, mutton, 
and beef, in the order given, are the most easily assim- 
ilated meats. 

Game, being rich in phosphates, is valuable for invalids. 

Broiled bacon, dusted with cayenne, is an easily digested 
form of fat. 

Tomatoes as an article of diet are considered by many 
physicians a remedy for dyspepsia and indigestion. 

Watery, green, or diseased potatoes should never be 
eaten. If there be only a small spot of decay, it taints 
the whole potato. Young potatoes are very indigestible. 

Eggs for sick people should be taken raw. When 
beaten with cold milk, they are more quickty absorbed. If 
cooked, they should be either very soft, or hard enough to be 
easily crumbled to a powder, as in any intermediate stage 
the albumen is tough instead of brittle, and being tough is 
insoluble by the gastric juice ; these insoluble portions are 
often delayed in the stomach or intestines till they putrefy 
and the sulphuretted hydrogen and ammonia evolved be- 
come poisonous to the intestinal canal. 




432 The Boston Cook Book. 

Soups which have in them cream or milk are better for 
invalids than those rich in gelatine. Cream of Celery 
and Potage a la Heine are especially suitable. Strong 
Bouillon is adapted to those suffering from hemorrhoids 
or any disease of the rectum, as there is no solid waste. 

Dyspeptics should avoid am T thing which they (not 
others) cannot digest. There are so many causes for and 
forms of dyspepsia, that it is impossible to prescribe one 
and the same diet for all. Nothing is more disagreeable 
or useless than to be cautioned against eating this or that, 
because your neighbor "So-and-so" cannot eat such 
things. If we would all stud}' the nature and digestion of 
food, and remember that air and exercise are as essential 
as food in promoting good health, we could easily decide 
upon the diet best suited to our individual needs. 

The diabetic should abstain from sugar and anything 
which is converted into sugar in digestion, such as all 
starchy foods, — fine wheat flour, rice, macaroni, tapioca, 
liver, potatoes, beets, carrots, turnips, parsnips, peas, 
beans, very old cheese, sweet omelets, custards, jellies, 
starchy nuts, sweet sauces, wine, and liquors. He may 
eat oysters, all kinds of fish, meat, poultry, and game, 
soups without any starchy thickening, lettuce, cucumbers, 
watercresses, dandelions, young onions, cold slaw, olives, 
cauliflower, spinach, cabbage, string beans, ripe fruit of 
all kinds without sugar, cream, butter, milk sparingly, 
gluten, flour, oily nuts freely salted, eggs, coffee, and 
cocoa. 

The corpulent should abstain from fat as well as sugar 
and starch. A diet of whole-wheat, milk, vegetables, 
fruits, and lean meat will produce only a normal amount of 
fatness; while an excess of sweets, acids, spices, and 
shortening keeps the system in an unhealthful condition. 

Those who can digest fine flour, pastry, sugar, and fats 
become loaded with fat, but are neither strong nor vigorous. 
Thin people with weak digestion should also avoid such 
food ; for thin people are often kept thin by the same food 
which makes others fat. If they cannot digest the starch, 



The Boston Cook Book. 433 



butter, and fine flour, the system is kept in a feverish, dys- 
peptic state ; they become nervous or go into consumption 
for no other reason than that life is burned out by a diet 
which only feeds the fire and does not renew the tissues. 
44 Men dig their graves with their teeth; not only by 
drinking whiskey and using tobacco, but by eating food 
loaded down with inflammatory materials." 

The bilious and gouty should eat sparingly of brown 
meats, cheese, eggs, beans, peas, or food which is rich in 
albuminoids. A certain amount of albuminoid or nitro- 
genized food is requisite for tissue growth and repair; 
more being required for growing persons and the conva- 
lescent than for health}' adults. Most Americans are in- 
clined to eat more albuminoid food than is required. It 
gives a sensation of energy, of being equal to work, which 
is very pleasant. But when we have <4 too much of a good 
thing," more than is needed for repair of tissue, this sur- 
plus of albuminous material is imperfectly oxidized, the 
blood is laden with waste, and biliousness or gout is the 
result. Fish gives less albuminoid waste than meat. 

People who are inclined to constipation should eat 
whole-wheat, rye, and corn bread and mushes, ripe fruit, 
berries, green corn, vegetables, beef, mutton, poultry, 
milk, cream, and butter ; and should avoid fried or greasy 
food, hot bread, rich cake, veal, pork, or anything which 
has so much woody fibre or cellulose ohat it only irritates 
the digestive canal, such as the outer bran of wheat, coarse 
oatmeal r etc. 

Those with consumptive tendencies should eat whole- 
some, easily digested and assimilated food, with plenty of 
fat, — not in the indigestible form that it takes when 
mixed with starch, but as in cream, sweet butter, fat of 
roast or boiled meat, the fat, but not the lean, of ham and 
corned beef, oil, salads, corn-meal, oatmeal, etc. 

The diet of people who are well should be governed 
largely by their age, occupation, and exercise. Adults 
should have a variety of wholesome food cooked in different 
ways. Aged people should have a diet more like that of 

28 



434 ^e Boston Cook Book. 

children. If the occupation tax the muscular strength, 
use muscle-making food ; not wholly meat, as many labor- 
ing people are inclined to think, but grains, peas, beans, 
cabbage, milk, cheese, eggs, whole-wheat bread, and 
chocolate, with a small amount of beef, mutton, and 
poultry. Students and brain-workers need more of brain- 
producing and less of muscle-making food. Brain food 
must contain phosphorus, which is found largely in oysters, 
eggs, fish, lean meat, wheat, peas, beans, and fruit. Those 
who are engaged in sedentary occupations, who take 
little exercise and live in close, confined rooms, should 
eat only the most easily digested food. 

People who engage in regular active labor, who take 
plenty of exercise in the open air, cultivate a cheerful, 
happy disposition, live temperately in every wa}-, and have 
naturally strong digestive organs, can eat any kind of 
wholesome food that has been properly cooked, and have 
no consciousness of a stomach or any visceral organs ; and 
appetite, unless previously impaired, is their best guide. 
If the digestive organs be not strong naturally, such a 
mode of life as the above will tend to make them so, more 
than any amount of drugs or quack medicines. 



The Boston Cook Book. 435 



MISCELLANEOUS HINTS. 

To Chop Suet. — Cut into small pieces and remove 
the membrane. Sprinkle with flour, and chop in a cold 
place to prevent its becoming soft and sticky. 

To Clean Currants. — Put them in a squash strainer, 
and sprinkle thickly with flour. Rub them well until they 
are separated, and the flour, grit, and fine stems have 
passed through the strainer. Then place the strainer and 
currants in a pan of water, and wash thoroughly. Lift 
the strainer and currants together, and change the water 
till clear. Drain betwaen towels, and pick over carefully. 
Dry them in a sunny place or between towels, but do not 
harden them by putting them into the oven. 

To Stone Raisins, — Pour boiling water over them, 
and let them stand in it five or ten minutes. Drain, and 
rub each raisin between the thumb and finger till the seeds 
come out clean, then cut or tear apart, or chop, if wanted 
very fine. 

Core Apples before paring, and there is less danger of 
their breaking. 

Egg Shells. — Wash eggs as soon as they come from 
the market, and then the shells may be used in clearing 
coffee, soup, etc. 

To Boil a Pudding in a Cloth. — Wring strong cotton 
cloth out of boiling water, and spread over a bowl. 
Sprinkle with flour, fill with the pudding, draw the cloth 
together, and tic tightty, then flour near the opening. 
Plunge into boiling water, and keep the water boiling 
during the time for cooking. Add boiling water as needed, 
and replenish the Are often. 

Meringues should be put on puddings after they are 
slightly cool, as, if the pudding be hot, the egg will liquefy. 



436 The Boston Cook Booh 



Moulds sbould be greased for any steamed mixture; 
wet in cold water for jelly, creams, etc. ; and neither wet 
nor greased if to be lined with cake. A mould of jelly 
will cool quicker if placed in a pan of ice water or snow 
than in the ice-chest. 

Candied or Crystallized Fruit or Nuts. (Mrs. Camp- 
bell.) — Boil one cup of granulated sugar and one cup of 
boiling water together for half an hour. Then dip the 
point of a skewer into the syrup and then into cold water. 
Jf the thread formed break off brittle, the syrup is ready. 
The syrup must never be stirred, and must boil slowly, 
not furiouslj\ When done, set the saucepan in boiling 
water, or pour the syrup into a bowl placed in hot water, 
to keep the syrup from candying. Take the prepared 
fruit or nuts on the point of a large needle or fine skewer, 
dip them into the syrup, and then lay them on a dish, 
which has been lightly buttered or oiled ; or string them , 
on a thread, and after dipping in the syrup suspend them 
by the thread. When oranges are used, divide them into 
eighths, and wipe all moisture. Cherries should be stoned. 
English walnuts are especially nice prepared in this way. 

To Blanch Almonds and other Nuts. — Remove the 
shells, cover with boiling water, and let them stand till the 
dark skin will rub off easily. Then put them in cold 
water, rub off the skins, and dry between towels. 

Corned Meat. — Fresh meat may be kept some time by 
corning it slightly. Wipe carefullj*, and remove an}* parts 
that are not sweet and fresh, then rub all over thickly 
with salt. Or make a brine with rock salt and cold water ; 
use salt enough to float the meat, then cover, and put 
a heavj* weight on the cover to keep the meat under the 
brine. Three days' time is sufficient for corned meat. 

To Make Paper Boxes. — These can be obtained, in a 
variet}' of forms, from the confectioner ; but plain ones 
ma}* be made in this way. Take a piece of stiff white 
paper, five inches square. Find the centre of the square 
bj* folding two opposite corners together and creasing 
lightly in the middle, then open and fold the other two in 



The Boston Cook Book. 437 



the same way. Fold the two sides over till they meet in 
the centre, then fold the two ends. Open, and cut in the 
fold down to the line at each end, but not on the side. 
Fold the sides over on the outside about one quarter of an 
inch ; then fold the middle part of the end in the same 
way. Then turn the ends of the side pieces round behind 
the end, and let them meet in the middle, and fold the 
edge of the end over them. Fasten the ends with a few 
stitches or with paste. A border of fancy perforated paper 
ma3 r be pasted on the edge. 

A Pastry Bag. — One third of a yard of yard-wide 
rubber sheeting will make three bags one foot square. 
Fofd two opposite corners together, stitch along the edge, 
and make a triangular bag. Cut off at the point to make 
an opening large enough to insert the end of a tin tube. 
It is convenient to have three bags, with openings of 
different sizes, — one for dclairs, one for lady fingers, and 
one for frosting. The tube for Eclairs is three fourths of 
an inch wide at the small end ; that for lady fingers, three 
eighths of an inch ; and the frosting tubes, of various sizes, 
some of them quite small. Fit the tube into the opening, 
and fill the bag with the mixture. Draw the edges together, 
and twist the top tightly to keep out the air. Hold the 
bag in the left hand, with the tube close to the place where 
the mixture is to be spread ; press with the right, and guide 
the mixture into any shape desired. A slight pressure is 
sufficient. When no longer needed, wash the bags in cold 
(never in hot) water, and dry carefully. 

Vanilla Sugar. — One pound of lump sugar and orte 
ouhce of Mexican vanilla beans. Cut the beans in small 
pieces, and pound in a mortar, with the sugar, till fine 
like flour. Sift through a fine strainer, pound the remain- 
der again, and sift till all is fine. Keep in a tightly 
corked bottle. Use a tablespoonful for a quart of ice- 
cream. Or cut the beans into small pieces, and split them 
that the seeds may be exposed. Put an ounce of the 
beans in a small jar with a pound of sugar. Sift the 
sugar as required, and use as above ; add more sugar, 



438 The Boston Cook Book. 



keep closely covered, and use as long as there is any flavor 
in the sugar. 

Canned. Fruit Juices. — Fruit juices may be kept for 
a long time by canning the same as whole fruit. They 
are convenient for water ices and summer beverages. 
Mash the fruit, and rub the pulp through a fine sieve. 
Mix about three pounds of sugar with one quart of fruit 
juice and pulp. Fill Mason's jars with the syrup, cover, 
and place in a heater with cold water to come nearly to 
the top of the ja/. Let the water boil half an hour, then 
fill each jar to the brim, seal, and cool in the water. 



The Boston Cook Book. 439 



THE DININO-R00M. 

The subjects of "The Arrangement of the Table, ,: 
" Dinner-Giving," and "Bills of Fare" have been full}* 
treated in other cook books, and it would be difficult to 
add to what has already been said. Hints on garnishing, 
carving, and appropriate combinations of dishes have been 
given in connection with many of these receipts ; and want 
of space forbids anj T thing more than some general rules. 

Above all things, attempt nothing in style or expense 
beyond what you can well afford. There is no more paltry 
ambition, nothing that contains more certainly the seeds of 
unhappiness and disaster, than such a desire for "empty 
show," which all sensible people must despise. 

Let your breakfasts be of wholesome and substantial 
food. The sj'stem needs nourishment in the morning after 
the long, unbroken fast of the night. The practice of tak- 
ing only a cup of tea or coffee with hot biscuit, and possi- 
blj T pie or doughnuts, gives a very poor foundation for the 
morning's labor, which is and should be the hard labor of 
the day. Milk, coffee, or chocolate, mushes, fruits, pota- 
toes or bread, meat, fish, or eggs, in some of their simple 
and digestible combinations should form the basis of the 
breakfast. The morning meal should be taken as soon as 
possible after rising. Any prolonged bodily exertion or 
exposure to the early morning air, before the stomach is 
fortified by food, is. now condemned by the majority of 
physicians. 

The midday and evening meal may vary with the occu- 
pations and habits of the family ; but a regular hour for 
eating should be observed, whether the more substantial 
meal come at noon or night ; and if at night sufficient time 
should be allowed for digestion to be completed before 



44° The Boston Cook Book. 



sleeping. A supper of cold bread and cake or pie is 
neither appetizing nor satisfying for those who have been 
hard at work through the day. " Something warm or 
heartj', something for a relish," every man craves for 
supper. Toast, brewis, warm tea-cakes, cocoa, oatmeal, 
warmed-over potatoes, cold meat, made dishes, eggs, 
oysters, etc., are far better than the common supper of 
sweets. 

Every one may have clean, if not fine, table linen. An 
under covering of cotton flannel or felt made to fit the 
table is desirable, as it prevents noise, and a linen cloth 
may be laid over it more smoothly than over the bare table. 
Thin tablecloths remain fresh longer if stiffened slightly 
with very thin starch, but heavy damask requires no stif- 
fening. Keep the cloths in a drawer large enough to hold 
them without much folding. Avoid making many folds in 
ironing, and in handling them fold alwaj-s in the creases. 
In laying the cloth, place the centre of it in the centre of 
the table, and have the folds straight with the edges of the 
table. Crease the cloth round the edge of the table, that 
it may drape smoothly. 

Lay a plate, right side up, for each person. If the table 
be long, place one plate at each end, and those at the sides 
opposite each other. Place the napkin at the left of the 
plate, and at dinner place a piece of bread between the 
folds of the napkin. Place the knives, butter plate, and 
tumbler at the right of each plate, the forks at the left, and 
the soup and dessert spoons in front, the handles towaid 
the right hand, — the number of each depending upon the 
number of courses. The fruit dish or flowers should occupy 
the centre of the table ; the salt and pepper, butter, jelly, 
pickles, etc., at the corners. Place the various dishes on 
the table in regular order, straight with the table, or, if at 
an angle, let there be some uniformity, never helter-skelter. 
The cups, plates, and dishes for hot food should be heated 
in hot water or in a warming-oven. Use a spoon to place 
ice in delicate glasses or pitchers ; or put in the water first, 
And then the ice, to avoid breaking. 



The Boston Cook Book. 441 



Do not let the table become disordered during the meal. 
The dishes, plates, etc., should be removed noiselessly, one 
by one ; and never piled one upon another, after the hasty 
fashion of second-class hotels. 

If the serving be done by the host and hostess, it is more 
convenient for them to sit at the sides of the table ; the 
host serving the substantial dishes, and the hostess the tea 
or coffee, vegetables or entrees, puddings* and the dessert 
Where there are servants to do the waiting, the host and 
hostess may sit at the ends of the table, as there they can 
command a better view of their guests, and see that they 
are properly served. The hostess should serve the soup, 
salad, dessert, and coffee ; the host, the fish and meat ; and 
the servants, the vegetables and entrees. 

At a dinner served d, la liusse, the fruit and flowers only 
are placed upon the table, the several courses being served 
from the side. «. 

Many volumes have been written upon table etiquette. 
Some of the suggestions they contain are practical ; others 
useless. What is considered proper at one place or time 
is not approved under other circumstances ; and those • 
desirous of observing the usages of good society are 
often sorely perplexed to keep pace with the variations 
Of fashion. But if, instead of following mere arbitrary 
rules from the low standpoint of " st} r le," we would take 
for our guidance the best definition of true politeness as 
given by Dr. Watts, — " Love manifested in an easy and 
graceful manner," — we need never be at a loss as to " what 
to do and what not to do." A moment's observation will 
show the strictness of etiquette maintained in the family 
in which you may be a guest, — for instance, whether the 
servants are expected to take entire charge of serving 
everything, or whether the family reserve to themselves 
something of the happy privilege of courtesy and thought 
for each other; and you may forget with them, in the , 
mutual interchange of the proper attentions, that freezing 
formality which sometimes forbids that you should seem to 
know or care how }*our neighbor fares. "Think not of 



442 The Boston Cook Book. 

yourself, but of what will contribute most to another's com- 
fort or convenience," remembering that for the time being 
utter deference should be paid to the evident arrangement 
of the house at which you are. This is the safest stand- 
ard for table etiquette, as well as for good manners every- 
where. No selfish person can ever be truly polite. Children 
should be carefully trained in table manners as soon as 
they are old enough to come to the table, and accustomed 
to perfect politeness ; then there will be no fear of mis- 
haps, nor special training needed for " company," nor any 
awkward habits to be overcome in later life. 

After a meal brush up any crumbs that may have fallen, 
lest they be trodden into the carpet. Collect the knives, 
forks, and spoons by themselves. Put any food that maj* 
be used again on small dishes, never on the dishes used in 
serving. Scrape the dishes, empty and rinse the cups, 
and pack neatly near where they are to be washed. Brush 
the crumbs from the cloth, instead of shaking it, then fold 
and put it away carefully. 

Never pile nice china or any other dishes in the dishpan. 
• Begin with a pan half filled with hot soapy water. Keep 
the soap in a shaker made for that purpose, or in a tin 
cup ; make a strong lather in the cup, and use as needed. 
Never leave the soap in the dishpan to waste and stick to 
the dishes. Wash glasses first. Slip them in sideways, 
so that the hot water will touch outside and inside at once, 
and then there will be no danger of breaking from unequal 
expansion. Wash one at a time, and wipe instantty with- 
out draining or rinsing. Wash the silver and wipe at once, 
as it keeps bright longer if wiped out of hot soapy water. 
Keep a cake of silver soap at hand, and rub ^each piece of 
silver as soon as discolored. Then wash the china, begin- 
ning with the cups, saucers, pitchers, and least greasy 
dishes, and changing the water as soon as cool or greasy.-* 
Place these dishes in the rinsing-pan with the cups inside 
up and plates resting on the edges, that the} 7 may be 
scalded inside as well as outside, and drain quickly. 
Scald and wipe immediately. 



iHiMiEBMMMiBMHi 



The Boston Cook Book. 443 

"Dave's" method of washing dishes, though not in 
general use, has been proved satisfactory. Place a pan 
of cold water between the washing and rinsing pans. 
After washing and wiping the glasses and silver, add 
more hot water, and wash the china first An the hot suds, 
then dip each dish instantly into the cold water, and stand 
it on the edge to drain in ths rinsing-pan. The cold water 
rinses off the hot suds, and the sudden change of tempera- 
ture dries the dishes almost instantly ; and they require 
little or no wiping. The}* will be neither " sticky nor 
streaky." 

Where there is only one woman for " cook, waitress, 
hostess, and kitchen girl," it is well, after the table is 
cleared and the dishes neatly packed, to wash first the 
kitchen dishes, and pots and kettles ; then with clean 
water and towels wash and wipe the table dishes. The 
hands will be left in much better condition than when the 
pots and kettles are washed last. 

The Care of Kitchen Utensils. 

A complete list of kitchen utensils is not given in this 
work, as the variety and number needed will be largely 
determined by circumstances. There are several utensils, 
which are not perhaps in general use, which lessen the 
labor of cooking, and add much to the attractiveness of 
food prepared by their aid. 

There is nothing that makes so much difference between 
ordinary and delicate cooking as a set of strainers. There 
should be one of very fine wire for sifting soda, spices, 
etc., and for straining custards and jellies ; others with 
meshes from one sixteenth to one eighth of an inch in 
diameter ; also a squash strainer and a colander. Ex- 
tension wire strainers are very convenient. Keep also a 
supply of strainer cloths, made from coarse crash or cheese 
cloth, and fine napkin linen. 

A set of oval tin moulds, a melon mould, and one or 
two fancy moulds are convenient for entries, puddings, 
and jellies. 



444 The Boston Cook Book. 

Other useful articles are Dover egg-beaters, large and 
small ; ordinary small wooden spoons and the larger per- 
forated ones ; a whip churn ; granite saucepans and stew- 
pans, holding from half a pint to six quarts ; double 
boilers; a wire basket for frying ; & potato sheer/ a fine wire 
broiler for toast, and two coarser ones for steak and fish ; 
a set of pastry bags and frosting tubes ; fancy vegetable 
cutters; a glass rolling-pin; and, above all, a small 
sharp-pointed knife^ made from tke best steel, for paring 
potatoes, turnips, etc., and a set of tin measuring-cups 
holding half a pint, and divided into quarters and thirds. 

It is a mistake to have many large, unwieldy dishes. 
Small saucepans and small bowls are more convenient, and 
granite or agate ware is much lighter to handle and more 
casity kept clean than ironware. Buckets are convenient 
for keeping sugar and small quantities of flour. Glass jars 
or wide-mouthed bottles are best for nearly all groceries, 
such as rice, tapioca, meal, raisins, etc. They are easily 
cleansed, and the contents are plainly seen. They maj* be 
kept air-tight, or, if that be unnecessary, old jars not suit- 
able for canning may be utilized. 

A refrigerator should be examined daily and kept thor- 
oughly clean. If a suitable brush cannot be had, a long 
stiff wire with a bit of cloth on the end should be used to 
clean the drain pipe. Pour boiling washing-soda water 
through it every other da}', and do not forget to wash off 
the slime that adheres to the water pan. Fish, onions, 
cheese, an} r strong vegetables, lemons, or meat not per- 
fectly sweet, should not be kept in the same ice-box with 
milk or butter. 

Do not become wedded to the idea that dishes can only 
be washed in a sink. If } r our pantry or cookroom be some 
distance from your sink, and have a broad shelf or table 
in it, take your dishpan to the pantry, wash and wipe your 
dishes there, and in this wav save a few of the unneces- 
sar} T steps which soon amount to miles with man}' weary 
housekeepers. 

Never wash a bread-board in an iron sink. The iron 



• — - 



The Boston Cook Book. 445 

will leave a black mark on the board, which it is difficult 
to remove. Wash the board on the table where }'ou -have 
used it ; use cold water, and scrub occasionally with sand 
soap. In scraping dough from the board, scrape with the 
grain of the wood, and^ hold the knife in a slanting direc- 
tion, to prevent roughening the surface of the board. 
Wash, and wipe dry, and never let dough accumulate in 
the cracks. Have one board for bread and pastry, and 
keep it smooth. Use a smaller board for rolling crumbs 
and pounding and cleaning meat and fish. 

A Dover egg-beater should never be left to soak in 
water, as the oil will be washed out of the gears and the 
beater be hard to turn ; or, if used again before it be dry, 
the oil and water will spatter into the beaten mixture. 
Use it with clean hands, and then the handle will require 
no washing. Wipe the wires with a damp cloth immedi- 
ately after using, dry thoroughly, and keep it well oiled. 

All dishes should be scraped before washing. A small 
wooden knife is best for this purpose. Bread and cake 
bowls, or any dishes in which flour or eggs have been 
used, are more easily cleaned if placed in cold water after 
using, or washed immediate^*. 

Clear up as you work : it takes but a moment then, and 
saves much time and fatigue afterward. 

Never put pans and kettles half filled with water on the 
stove to soak. It only hardens whatever may have ad- 
hered to the kettle, and makes it much more difficult to 
clean. Keep them full of cold water, and soak them away 
from the heat. 

Kitchen knives and forks should never be placed in the 
dish water. Many err in thinking it is onh T the handles 
which should not be wet The practice of putting the 
blades into a pitcher of very hot water is wrong, as the 
sudden expansion of the steel by the heat causes the han- 
dles to crack. Keep the knives out of the water, but wash 
thoroughly with the dishcloth, rub them with mineral soap 
or brick dust, and wipe them dry. Keep them bright, and 
sharpen often on a sandstone. The disadvantage and 



H 



446 The Boston Cook Book. 

vexation of dull tools would be avoided if every woman 
would learn to use a whetstone, and where and when to 
apply a little oil. 

Milk will sour quickty if put into dishes which have not 
been scalded. They should first be washed in clear cold 
water, then in hot soapy water, then rinsed in clear boil- 
ing water, and wiped with a dry fresh towel. Do not for- 
get to scrape the seams and grooves of a double boiler. 

Ironware should be washed, outside as well as inside, in 
hot soapy water, rinsed in clean hot water, and wiped dry, 
not with the dishcloth, but with a dry towel. Dripping- 
pans, Scotch bowls, and other greasy dishes should be 
scraped, and wiped with soft paper, which will absorb the 
grease. The paper will be found, useful in kindling the 
fire, and is a great saving of water, which is sometimes 
an object. A tablespoonful of soda added to the water 
will facilitate the cleaning. 

Kitchen mineral soap or pumice stone may be used 
freely on all dishes. It will remove the stains from 
white knife handles, the brown substance that adheres to 
earthen or tin baking-dishes, and the soot which collects 
on pans and kettles used over a wood or kerosene fire. 
Tins should be washed in clean, hot soapy water. Rub 
them frequentty with mineral soap, and the}' may be kept 
as bright as when new. Saucepans and other tin or 
granite dishes browned by use may be cleaned by letting 
them remain half an hour in boiling soda water, then 
rubbing with a wire dishcloth or stiff brush. 

A new tin coffee-pot, if never washed on the inside 
with soap, may be kept much sweeter. Wash the outside, 
and rinse the inside thoroughly with clear water. Then 
put it on the stove to dry, and when dry rub the inside 
well with a clean, dry cloth. All the brown sediment 
may be wiped off in that wa}% but a soapy dishcloth should 
never be put inside. 

Keep a granite pan near the sink to use in washing 
vegetables, and use the hand basin only for its legitimate 
purpose. Pare vegetables into the pan, and not into the 



The Boston Cook Book. 447 

sink. A strainer or any old quart tin pan with small 
holes in the bottom is a great help in keeping a sink clean. 
Pour the coffee and tea grounds, the dish water, and 
everything that is turned into the sink through the strainer 
first, and then empty the contents of the strainer into the 
refuse pail. 

Never use a ragged or linty dishcloth. The lint collects 
round the sink spout, and often causes a serious obstruc- 
tion. A dish mop is best for cups and cleanest dishes, 
but a strong linen cloth should be used for everything 
which requires hard rubbing. Wash the sink thoroughly, 
flush the drainpipe often with hot suds or soda water, 
wipe dry, and rub with a greased cloth or with kerosene. 
Keep it greased if you wish to prevent its rusting. 

Cremation is the most satisfactory way of disposing of 
kitchen refuse, both as a matter of convenience and for 
sanitary reasons. But if there must be other disposition 
made of it, keep two pails and use them alternately, 
cleansing each as soon as emptied. 

Wash dish towels in cold water, with plenty of soap, 
and rinse thoroughly in cold water, every time tbey are 
used. If left to dry without washing, they will be sticky 
to handle and have a disagreeable odor. If the dishes 
be well washed, rinsed, and drained, the dish towels will 
require no rubbing. It is easier to take care of three or 
four which have never been left to become grimy than to 
wash one after it is stained and saturated with grease. 
Towels used in this way may be kept sweet and clean 
without boiling or drying in the sun. This method has 
been proved by years of trial. 

With a little care in observing these hints, and always 
using clean, hot soapy water (and not a liquid fit only for 
the swill cart) , changing it as soon as greasy, dish- washing 
would be robbed of half its terrors. And after the work 
is done, if the hands be carefully washed with Castile soap, 
not with strong washing-soap, and wiped dry, no un- 
pleasant effect upon the skin will be felt. Some use a little 
vinegar to counteract the effect of the alkali in the soap. 



448 The Boston Cook Book. 

A large apron made like a child's tire, high in the neck, 
with long sleeves, and buttoned in the back, is the best 
pattern for a work apron. It protects the entire dress, 
and can be easily removed when one is called from the 
kitchen. Print or cambric with a white ground and small 
black figures wears better than colored print. 

New, white mosquito netting and cheese cloth are useful 
for draining lettuce and for putting around fish, chicken, 
or vegetables which require careful boiling ; also for bags 
for herbs and spices. Small squares of new cotton cloth 
are useful for wiping meat or fish. Keep them clean, and 
use for nothing else. 

Keep a good supply of small holders, large coarse 
towels to use about the oven, and fine crash towels for 
wiping dishes. Keep a damp towel on the table when 
cooking, for wiping the hands. Avoid the habit of work- 
ing with sticky or floury fingers, or using your apron for a 
hand towel or oven holder, or using the dish towels about 
the stove. 

These suggestions are given by one who has always 
liked to wash dishes, and who thinks it not beneath the 
dignit} r of any woman to learn to do such work in the 
very best manner, and that no apology is needed for 
acknowledging a taste for this much-abused portion of 
domestic work. 



AN 



OUTLINE OF STUDY FOR TEACHERS. 



FOOD: 

ITS USES, CLASSIFICATION, AND PROPORTION. 

Webster defines food as " anything that supports and nour- 
ishes life." 

The kingdom of nature is divided into organic and inorganic 
bodies. Organic bodies have life ; inorganic bodies are without 
life. Organic bodies are composed of several reciprocal parts, 
each of which is necessary to, and dependent upon, all the other 
parts. Organic bodies, therefore, include plants and animals, and 
inorganic bodies include earths, metals, and minerals. Organic 
bodies spring from some parent or immediate producing agent; 
they are supported by means of nourishment, and die without it; 
they increase in size by the addition of new particles of matter 
to all parts of their substances. Inorganic bodies are formed by 
some chemical law or union, and grow only by addition to their 
surfaces. 

Organic and inorganic bodies are continually wasting away or 
wearing out. Waste tak?s place in all objects, animate and in- 
animate. The minutest change in position in any plant, ani- 
mal, or rock cannot be effected without some loss of substance. 
It has always been beyond the power of man to make anything 
that would not wear out. But there is this important distinction 
between organic and inorganic bodies. Only organic bodies can 
repair their waste, and add to their substance; they alone have 
life, or vital force. When anything wears out in a stone or a 
steam-engine, there is no power in the stone or the engine to 
replace the lost matter; and when a plant or an animal dies, 
the power of repairing waste is gone from it forever. Hence it 
is with animate bodies, or bodies endowed with life, that we have 
to do in considering the subject of food. 

29 



1 



450 The Boston Cook Book. 



Life is that form of energy in creation that results in de- 
velopment from within the object. The energy may be purely 
physical, as in plants; or it may involve mental and moral 
considerations, as in animals. 

There are some essential distinctions between the various 
forms of organic life. Animals grow proportionally in all direc- 
tions, and, at a certain time of life, attain their average size. 
Plants grow upwards and downwards from a collet only, and 
continue to grow through a term of existence. Animals feed 
upon organic matter, consume oxygen from the air, and throw 
off carbonic acid; plants feed upon inorganic matter, consume 
carbonic acid, and restore oxygen to the air. 

Living plants or vegetables are, with few exceptions, fixed to 
the spot of earth from which they spring, and receive their 
nourishment from external sources. It is furnished them by 
the soil, air, light, and heat by which they are surrounded; and 
they are every moment receiving all that is necessary for their 
sustenance. If one of these essential conditions be withdrawn, 
death follows. Living animals have the power of locomotion, 
and, being obliged to wander, they are not always directly in 
contact with their sources of nourishment. They have, there- 
fore, a storehouse in which they lay up at intervals a supply 
of material. The possession of this stomach, or storehouse, 
characterizes all animal beings. 

The changes that occur in animal life are more rapid and 
variable than those in vegetable life. Not being, like vegeta- 
bles, always in connection with their food, animals need some 
monitor to warn them when to seek it. This is provided them 
in the appetite, or the sensations of hunger and thirst. There is 
also a pleasure in the regulated indulgence of these sensations, 
which never fails to insure attention to their demands. 

The vegetable kingdom is the original source of all organic 
matter. All our food is derived directly from the vegetable 
world, or indirectly through animals which have been nourished 
on vegetable products. The ox and sheep, which are consumed 
in the form of beef and mutton, have not fed on flesh, but on 
grass, hay, oats, and other grains. It is only under exposure to 
the sun's rays that plants will grow. Hence to its influence 
we must refer the production of food in the first instance, and 
therefore the sustenance of all life. 

Life and growth in human beings are dependent upon two 
conditions, — motion and warmth. 

Motion. — Our bodies are constantly in motion. The heart 



The Boston Cook Book. . 451 

and lungs move with every breath. Every thought causes some 
change in the brain. Whenever any part of the body loses its 
power of motion, it dies. All this motion, whether voluntary or 
involuntary, results in the gradual wasting away of the flesh, 
blood, and bones of which the body is composed. " We begin 
to die as soon as we begin to live. ,, If the worn-out materials 
be not replaced, we die. One great object of food is to supply 
this waste. The demand for building material is greatest when 
the body is in a state of activity. Until the human body has 
attained its complete growth, there should be a constant supply 
of materia] for new growth, as well as for repair. In maturity, 
or when, from bodily inactivity, there is less waste, a smaller 
supply will suffice. Food taken at regular intervals supplies 
means of growth, and repairs the worn-out tissues. 

Warmth. — The temperature of the living human body is about 
98°. In hot or cold climates, in summer or winter, though the 
temperature of the external parts may vary, the internal tempera- 
ture is the same ; and if not maintained within a few degrees of 
this point, death invariably follows. The source of this animal 
heat, so independent of outside circumstances, must be from 
within. To keep up this internal heat or fire, a constant supply 
of fuel is necessary. This fuel is supplied by our food. To fur- 
nish material for growth and repair, and to provide fuel for the 
warmth of the body, is the twofold object of food. 

Animal Combustion. — The process by which food maintains 
the motion and warmth of the body is a kind of combustion, 
and has often been compared to the combustion carried on in 
the steam-engine (see Youmans's Chemistry). We can have no 
combustion without oxygen; therefore oxygen is the first impor- 
tant element of food. The air is our great source of supply of 
oxygen, and a volume might be written on the necessity for 
pure air and perfect ventilation. We breathe oxygen from the 
air into our lungs, and exhale carbonic acid. There must there- 
fore have been some internal union of carbon or hydrogen with 
oxygen, and such a union always produces heat. The carbon 
and hydrogen are obtained from our food, and are important 
elements. They are necessary for animal combustion. 

Food is taken in a natural or in a prepared state, and, after 
undergoing certain processes of digestion and assimilation, be- 
comes a part of our bodies for a time, and then is burned in the 
body, the process resembling somewhat the burning of wood and 
coal in our grates. But this union of carbon and oxygen, "in- 
stead of taking plaee in one spot and so rapidly as to be accom- 



452 The Boston Cook Book. 

panied by light, as iu the case of the grate fire, takes place in 
each drop of the blood, and so slowly and continuously as not to 
be noticed." The force and heat absorbed from the sun by the 
vegetable in growing, and stored in its starch and sugar, are set 
free, by the decomposition of the vegetable, into carbonic acid 
and water again. These are given out, partly as heat, keeping 
the body temperature at 98°; and partly in other forms, — in 
that of mechauical motion, etc. 

All the external or internal work of the body is done by 
the force and energy of the food which is burnt therein. The 
greater the amount of work to be done, the greater must be the 
supply of fuel. The fire is constantly burning. " The smoke 
passes out in exhalation, inhalation is the bellows to furnish 
more oxygen," and food supplies the fuel. The kidneys are 
the grates through which the ashes are removed. But if we 
are " a house on fire," why are we not consumed? Because, 
lest this internal fire burn too freely, the oxygen of the air is 
diluted with nitrogen, which is incombustible. The blood, 
bones, and muscles of the body are composed largely of nitro- 
gen, sixteen per cent of that element being present; and this 
prevents the complete burning up of the structure. " What the 
iron is to the stove, the nitrogenous tissues are to the body." 
But the stove wears out in time, and so our bodies are con- 
stantly wasting away ; and these nitrogenous elements must be 
supplied by our food. 

Food, to accomplish its purpose fully, should consist of these 
four elements: oxygen, to support combustion, — obtained from 
the air; carbon and hydrogen, to furnish fuel, — obtained from 
water and carbonaceous food ; nitrogen, to build up and repair 
the tissues of the body, — obtained from nitrogenous food. 

Food, in the form in which it is eaten, cannot sustain life. 
It must be converted into a fluid that can pass through very 
small channels into the blood. Then it must be mixed with the 
air, and undergo certain changes, before it can replace the worn- 
out elements of the body. To prepare food so that it can most 
readily be assimilated, that is, made like our bodies, should be 
the chief purpose in cooking. To do this, three things are 
essential : 1st. The food selected should be of the right mate- 
rial, and properly proportioned; 2d. It should be cooked in the 
most digestible and attractive manner; 3d. It should be adapted 
to the various circumstances of age, occupation, climate, and 
state of health. 

Food, to be of the right material, should contain all the ele- 



The Boston Cook Book. 453 

ments that our bodies contain. It is of primary importance, 
then, in studying food, to understand first the composition of the 
human body. 



THE COMPOSITION OF THE HUMAN BODY. 

Our bodies are made up of different materials: skin, flesh, 
blood, bone, etc. These consist of a large number of substances, 
called compounds; the compounds contain two, three, or four 
elements, united chemically in definite proportion. Some of 
these compounds are : water, which forms more than two thirds 
of the whole body, and is the common carrier of food into and 
through the system; fibrine, which is the chief solid material of 
flesh, and forms one tenth of the body; fat, a mixture of three 
compounds, distributed all through the system; albumen, and 
other nitrogenous substances, of which osselne in bones, keratin 
in the hair, nails, and skin, cartilagin in cartilage, and hemo- 
globin, which contains iron and gives the red color to the blood, 
are the most important. Chloride of sodium, or common salt, 
and other mineral salts of po'assa, lime, and magnesia, are 
found in all parts of the body. These compounds are made up 
of two or more separate and distinct elements. 

There are sixteen elements in the human body, — oxygen, 
carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, phosphorus, sulphur, chlorine, fluo- 
rine, silicon, calcium, potassium, sodium, magnesium, iron, 
manganese, and copper. Compounds only, not the separate ele- 
ments, are capable of nourishing the body. Oxygen only exists 
as an element. Its office is to support combustion. 

Combinations of two or mo^ of these elements are found in 
the various articles used as food. It is quite important that our 
food should consist of various materials, containing elements 
similar to, or capable of being changed into, the elements of our 
bodies, of which the most important are: water, to help diges- 
tion and assimilation of food, and to help carry away refuse 
material ; salts, to renew the mineral parts and replenish certain 
tissues ; carbon, to furnish fuel for warmth ; nitrogen, to build up 
and repair the whole structure. 

For convenience the elements are classified chemically into 
Non- Combustibles, or inorganic compounds, including water and 
salts; Combustibles, or organic compounds, including carbona- 
ceous and nitrogenous foods. Some foods contain no carbon, 
some contain no nitrogen, and some have all the elements in 



454 Th* Boston Cook Book. 

various proportions. Food has been classified into gaseous, or 
air ; liquid, or water; and solid, including animal and vegetable 
foods. But the division into carbonaceous, or heat-producing, 
and nitrogenous, or flesh-forming foods, answers every purpose. 



KON-COMBUSTIBLE COMPOUNDS. 



Water and Salts. 

Water forms more than two thirds of the whole body. It 
is especially abundant in the blood and secretions. It gives 
them the necessary fluidity, and enables them to dissolve the 
important materials they contain. It is contained in all kinds 
of solid food, as well as in the liquids drunk as beverages. It 
is most abundant in fruits and vegetables. Every pound of 
perfectly dry food should be accompanied with four pounds of 
water. 

Pure water is composed of oxygen and hydrogen, one ninth 
hydrogen and eight ninths oxygen by weight. The usual test 
for pure drinking water is that it be " free from color, smell, or 
taste, be soft, bright, and aerated, and free from all deposit." 
But it is very seldom found in that condition, as its power of 
dissolving other substances is so great that it nearly always 
holds animal, vegetable, or mineral matters in solution, obtained 
from the earth through which it flows. It also absorbs gases 
and odors from the air. The animal and vegetable substances 
found in it render it impure. But the mineral matters, unless 
in excess, are not objectionable. 

When water contains more than a few grains to the gallon of 
carbonate of lime, it is termed hard water. When water is hard 
or impure, it should be boiled before being used for drinking, 
as this destroys the vegetable and animal impurities. 

Water evaporates at all temperatures, boils at 212°, and freezes 
at 32° Fahrenheit. In freezing, the substances dissolved in 
water are expelled. Water, as it approaches the freezing-point, 
expands, and often bursts the vessels in which it is contained. 
In ponds or rivers it expands, becomes lighter, freezes, and 
floats on the surface in the form of ice. 

Water is perfectly neutral. It combines with acids and with 
bases. It becomes sweet, sour, salt, astringent, bitter, or poison* 
ous, according to the nature of the bodies it holds in solution. 



The Boston Cook Book. 455 

Salts and other Mineral Matters. — The chief purpose of min- 
eral ingrediepts is to replenish certain tissues, and aid in the 
transference and absorption of the combustible nutrients, as a 
scaffolding aids in the construction of a building. 

Chloride of sodium, or common salt, is essential to the life of 
the higher animals. It exists in all parts of the body. It is 
more abundant in the blood than any other inorganic ingredient 
except water; but it is an active poisonous irritant if taken in 
excess, causing diseases of the mucous membranes, as in catarrh, 
and stiffening of the muscles, as in rheumatism. We take it as 
a natural ingredient in many kinds of food, and as a condiment 
to increase the relish of many others. 

The desire for salt is instinctive. There are people who do 
not use salt in food, but it is probable that they obtain sufficient 
sodium and chlorine in the brackish water they drink ; or it may 
be, their habits of life render iess salt necessary. 

Salt must be added plentifully to all vegetable food. The 
bad effects of a salt-meat diet can be counteracted by the use of 
lemon juice and fresh green vegetables, which are rich in potash 
salts. 

Salt taken with our food supplies two substances. Its chlo- 
rine supplies the hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice, that 
helps digest our food; and soda, which is an element of the bile, — 
a fluid which must be added to the dissolved or softened food 
before the nourishment can be extracted from it. People would 
very soon become ill if deprived of salt. A person requires 
from one fourth to half an ounce of salt daily. The attractive 
flavor which is developed by cooking and adding salt to our food 
excites the secretion of saliva and gastric juice, and therefore 
helps digestion. The Dutch used to condemn criminals to a 
diet of unsalted food. They suffered great physical torture, 
which soon ended in death. 

Salt is one of the most abundant of all minerals. It is ob- 
tained from springs by evaporation, and from natural mines. 
It is readily soluble in hot or cold water. It is used for packing 
and preserving meats, as it prevents putrefaction by absorbing 
water from the flesh. 

The other mineral ingredients needed in the system are com- 
binations of lime, soda, potash, magnesia, sulphur, phosphorus, and 
iron. Phosphorus, lime, and magnesia are found in meat, fish, 
the cereals, and potatoes. Potash is found in meat, fish, milk, 
vegetables, and the dry seeds and fleshy parts of fruits, iron, 
in flesh, vegetables, and nearly all food, in vG/y minute quantities. 



456 The Boston Cook Booh 

Sulphur is in fibrine, albumen, and caseine. There is sufficient 
saline matter, except common salt, in all the ordinary food we 
eat and the water we drink. 

These mineral matters become rearranged and combined 
before becoming part of the body, but they do not undergo any 
chemical change or decomposition. They are absorbed with 
the food, and form for a time part of the animal tissues, after 
which they are discharged with the secretions, and replaced by 
a fresh supply. They are absolutely indispensable to the nour- 
ishment of the body. 



COMBUSTIBLE COMPOUNDS. 



CARBONACECftlS FOODS. 

The first division of combustible compounds is called carbon- 
aceous because they all contain carbon; or heat-producing, be- 
cause by their burning they generate heat. They consist oi 
starch, sugar, fats and oils, gum, and the softer fibres of plants. 
They are found in vegetables, cereals, fruits, milk, eggs, and 
the fat of meat. 

Starch. 

Starch is one of the most important of vegetable foods; it 
is found in grains, seeds, and roots, and in the pith and bark 
of plants. When pure, it is a snow-white, glistening powder. 
It consists of exceedingly minute grains, varying in size and 
shape in the different kinds of starch. These grains are cov- 
ered with an outer skin which is insoluble and unchanged by 
cold water ; but in boiling, this membrane bursts and the inte- 
rior of each grain dissolves in the water, forming a thick, 
gummy solution. When coo], it stiffens into a kind of pasty 
mass. 

Starchy food is very unwholesome unless properly cooked. 
It must be mixed with a sufficient amount of liquid, and sub- 
jected to a great degree of heat, that the grains may swell and 
burst. This liquid is sometimes supplied by the boiling water 
in which certain starchy foods are cooked; and sometimes by fat 
which melts with the heat, as in pastry, or by boiling fat, as in 
anything fried. When flour or starchy food is mixed with fat, 
it should be finely and evenly mixed, that the fat may penetrate 



The Boston Cook Book. 457 

every part of the flour, or else it will cake, and all the grains 
will not burst. Anything that helps to make pastry lighter 
and the fat more evenly distributed, causes the starch grains to 
burst equally, and makes such food more wholesome. 

Vegetables should be put into boiling water to burst the 
starch cells, and set free the confined air, of which there is a 
great deal in many kinds. They should be takeu up as soon 
as they are soft, as they absorb water after the grains are fully 
burst. 

Starch in its uncooked, insoluble state is not digested by the 
human stomach. Seeds and fruits which consist of starch, 
especially if it be combined with oil, as in many nuts, if eaten 
uncooked, are very difficult to digest. 

All starchy articles of food should be masticated thoroughly, 
and mixed with the saliva. It is more necessary to chew bread 
and potatoes well than meat. Starch is changed by various 
means into sugar. If an acid be added to it in a watery solu- 
tion, and boiled, it becomes clear and transparent, and after a 
time all the starch disappears, and sugar takes its place. The 
same change is caused by the saliva, and during digestion the 
starch is all changed into sugar, so that none of it is found in 
the fluids and secretions of the body. This is easily seen by 
chewing pure starch ; after a while it will become sweet. 

Starch contains no albuminous substances, and therefore 
cannot supply any of the materials of which our bodies are 
formed. But it is the source of the warmth of our bodies, and 
the strength we exert. Taken alone, it would be useless as an 
article of food. It must have the addition of albuminoid and 
fatty substances, like milk or meat. 

Starch is prepared by grinding some vegetable matter that 
contains it in abundance, and mixing it with cold water. The 
water is strained and allowed to stand; the starch settles at the 
bottom, and is then dried and powdered. Cornstarch is ob- 
tained from Indian corn, by a chemical process. The gluti- 
nous, oily elements are freed from the seed by alkaline solutions, 
and tho starchy parts are ground and dried. Sago is starch 
from the pith' of a species of palm-tree. Tapioca is from the 
root of a species of the cassava plant of South America. It is a 
coarsely granulated substance. Cassava, or mandioc, is a more 
finely granulated form of the same root. Arrowroot is from 
the rhizoma, or rootstalk, of a West Indian plant. The natives 
use the roots of a species of the plant in extracting the poison 
of arrows ; hence the name. 



1 



♦58 The Boston Cook Booh 



Sugar. 

Sugar is composed of oxygen, hydrogen, and carbon. There 
are three kinds, — cane sugar, or sucrose; grape sugar, or glu- 
cose; milk sugar, or lactose. 

Cane sugar as an article of food closely resembles starch, but 
it is soluble and therefore more easily digested. It is readily 
distinguished by its sweet taste. It is found in many animal 
juices and also in fruits, but exists mainly in vegetable juices 
which have little or no acid in their sap, like sugar cane, rock 
maple, and beet-root. In its natural state it is dissolved in the 
vegetable fluids, mingled with many other substances. It is 
obtained by crushing the raw material ; the fluids thus obtained 
are heated with a solution of lime, which causes the impurities 
to separate and rise in scum. These are removed, and the 
purified juice boiled down until it solidifies as a brownish de- 
posit. This brown sugar is again dissolved, boiled, and filtered 
through charcoal, evaporated, and crystallized. Molasses is the 
drainage of the raw sugar. Brown sugar is the first product. 
Granulated sugar is brown sugar refined and re-crystallized. 
All brown and moist sugars are inferior in quality; they contain 
water and mineral matter, and are sometimes infested by a 
minute insect. Loaf sugar is the purest. 

Sucrose, or cane sugar, is changed, by the acids of the gastric 
juice and the nitrogenous matter of the food, into grape sugar, 
or glucose. One of the most remarkable properties of sugar is 
that it can be decomposed and converted into other substances 
by fermentation. In its chemical relations sugar ranks with 
acids, and combines with bases, as in sugar of lead. It melts at 
320°, and by cooling forms a transparent amber-colored solid 
known as barley sugar. If heated to 420°, it forms a brown 
mass, called caramel. Sugar has great preservative powers, 
and is used in preserving fruits, hams, bacon, etc. 

Glucose, or grape sugar, is abundantly distributed throughout 
the vegetable kingdom. It is found in honey, figs, grapes, and 
other fruits which have acid juices. It is less sweet than cane 
sugar, and is immediately absorbed into the circulation when 
taken into the stomach. It is less soluble and less easily 
crystallized than sucrose. 

Lactose, or milk sugar, is obtained only from the milk of mam- 
malia. It has the composition of cane sugar, and is converted 
into grape sugar when taken as food. 



The Boston Cook Book. 459 



Fats. 

Fats, or oleaginous substances, are composed of carbon, hydro- 
gen, and oxygen, — the two former elements preponderating, 
— and, having a very strong affinity for oxygen, are highly 
combustible. 

Fats are solid ; oils are liquid. Fats may be changed to oil by 
a slight accession of heat, and are obtained from both animal 
and vegetable tissues, — suet and dripping, from beef fat; lard, 
from the fat of pigs ; butter, from the cream of milk ; olive oil, 
from the fleshy pulp of the fruit of the olive tree. Oil is also 
found in nuts, seeds, cereals, and fruits. Croton oil, used for 
medicinal purposes, is from a plant, a native of India; cod liver 
oil, from the liver of cod fish ; castor oil, from the seeds of the 
castor-oil plant. 

Fats and oils contain three different oleaginous substances, 
known as stearine, margarine, and oleine. Oleine is that portion 
of oil that causes its fluidity. It is more abundant in oils than 
fats, and in the fat of swine than in the harder fat of sheep or 
beef. Lard is better than mutton fat or suet for frying, because, 
having more oleine, it can be converted into a liquid sooner. 
Margarine is harder than oleine. It exists in human fat, in but- 
ter, and olive oil. Stearine is the most solid substance of the 
three, and is most abundant in tallow and suet. 

The peculiar odor some fats and oils possess is from the pres- 
ence of an acid. In butter it is butyric acid. Glycerine is the 
base common to all the fats. In stearine, the hardest fat, it 
unites with stearic acid; in margarine, a less solid form, with 
margaric acid; in oleine, or oil, with oleic acid. 

" Fat forms the chief material of adipose tissue. It serves to 
fill spaces and give rotundity and beauty to the form, to equalize 
external pressure, to diminish the friction of the parts, to give 
suppleness to the tissues, and, being a non-conductor of heat, to 
keep the body warm. An undue accumulation of fat is a species 
of disease.' ' 

Oils and fats will not mix with water; but if an alkaline sub- 
stance, like potash or soda, be added, the oil becomes separated 
into fine particles, and is held suspended in the watery fluid. 
This is called an emulsion, and this is what takes place in intes- 
tinal digestion. The gastric juice, being acid, does not digest 
fat, but only separates it from these substances, that it may 
digest the albuminous portions with which it is mingled. But 



460 The Boston Cook Book. 



^ 



the pancreatic fluid, being alkaline, resolves the fat into an 
emulsion. This completes the digestion, then the fats are ab- 
sorbed and received into the general circulation. Having a 
strong affinity for oxygen, these fatty particles in the venous 
blood, when they come in contact with the oxygen of the air, 
burn, and heat is evolved. The power of fat in maintaining 
heat and activity is two and a half times that of starch. 

Oils which are used as food are fixed oils. Volatile oils are 
found in many condiments and perfumes. Volatile oils can be 
distilled, or changed to vapor, and recondensed into their origi- 
nal form; they leave no permanent stain on paper. Fixed or 
greasy oils cannot be distilled; before changing to vapor they 
recombine into new compounds. 

Gum, Mucilage, Pectose, and Cellulose. 

These are combustible compounds, but are neither starchy, 
saccharine, nor oily. Gum is found in apple and plum trees. 
Gum arabic is from a species of acacia, and is soluble. Muci- 
lage is found in onions, quinces, and flaxseed. It forms a jelly 
with water, but does not dissolve like gum arabic. Pectose is 
found in many roots, like the turnip; also in the pear and peach. 
When boiled with water it changes to a vegetable jelly, called 
pectine. Currants, pears, peaches, plums, contain pectine, and 
this is what gives firmness to the preserves made from them. 
Cellulose is the woody fibre of stalks of grain, the membrane 
which envelops the grains, husks, and skin of seeds, rinds, 
cores, and stones of fruits. It is the main and almost the sole 
constituent of linen, and of the paper which is made from linen. 

NITROGENOUS FOODS. 

The second division of the Combustible Compounds is called 
nitrogenous, or flesh-forming foods. Nitrogen is the flesh-form- 
ing element common to all foods. It enters largely into the 
composition of the body, forming sixteen per cent of the 
animal tissue. A liberal supply is necessary to form and 
repair tissue. Although the atmosphere is four fifths nitro- 
gen, we get no supply from that source. It must be sup- 
plied in a state of combination, not as an element, from such 
compounds as have been produced under the influence of life. 
We require organic nitrogenous matter, and not pure nitrogen. 
This is sometimes derived from vegetable sources, but is most 



The Boston Cook Book. 461 

abundant in animal substances. Animal food is richer and 
more nutritious than vegetable food ; but the latter, if taken in 
large quantities, yields the same amount of flesh-forming mate- 
rial. Nitrogenous substances in plants and animals are identical 
in composition; and, from whichever source they are taken, the 
most important consideration is, to digest them and make them 
into blood. 

Nitrogen is an essential part of some of our most powerful 
medicines, like quinine and morphine, and of our most dangerous 
poisons, such as strychnine and prussic acid. 

Nitrogenous foods are also called albuminous, because albumen 
is their common element, though it is called by different names 
in different things. Albumen is from albus, meaning white. The 
principal varieties of albuminous food are lean meat, fish, eggs, 
milk, cheese, peas, beans, oatmeal, flour, rye, and corn. These 
are treated more fully in other parts of the book, in chapters on 
Bread, Meats, Fish, Eggs, Milk, and Vegetables. 

The albuminous portion of meat is the juice, or albumen, and 
the fibre, or fibrine. In eggs it is the white. In milk it is the 
caseine, or the curdy part that separates when milk has soured. 
In peas and beans it is called vegetable caseine. In flour it 
is gluten, — the sticky, glutinous substance which is left after 
squeezing or washing out the starch. 

Albumen exists in two states, — one soluble in water and one 
insoluble. The soluble may be changed to insoluble by heating 
to 120°, or by adding nitric acid. It is the most easily digested 
of all flesh-forming foods. 

Albuminous substances have the property of coagulation ; but 
all albuminoids do not coagulate in the same way. The albumen 
of eggs and the juices of meat coagulate by heating to the boiling- 
point. The fibrine of the blood coagulates when exposed to the 
air. Milk coagulates by the addition of an acid. 

Albuminous substances also have the property of fermentation. 
This occurs principally in substances which are rich in sugar, 
Btarch, and gluten, like flour, milk, etc. The fermentation in 
flour and milk is explained in the chapter on Bread-Making. 

Fermentation will not take place without air or moisture, and 
a moderate degree of heat. Therefore, if albuminous substances 
be excluded from air and moisture, and kept very hot or very 
cold, they will not ferment. Fermentation is a change in the 
elements of a body composed of oxygen, carbon, and hydrogen. 
Sugar is composed of carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen in equal 
parts ; when sugar ferments, it decomposes and then reunites in 



462 The Boston Cook Book. 

different proportions, forming different compounds, — alcohol, 
carbonic acid, and water. 

Albuminous substances are the only substances which putrefy. 
Putrefaction resembles fermentation, and is due to the presence, 
in large proportion, of the fickle element, nitrogen, and also to 
the larcre number of elements combined in all albuminous sub- 
stances. Complicated machinery is always more easily deranged 
than simple; and in all chemical combinations, the more com- 
plex they are, the more, unstable. Nitrogen has a very weak 
affinity for other elements, and forms very unstable compounds. 
All substances rich in nitrogen, when exposed to the air, soon 
pass into a state of decomposition, or putrefaction. The oxygen 
of the air has a greater affinity than the nitrogen for the other 
elements, and unites with them very easily. In putrefaction 
the oxygen unites with the carbon to form carbonic acid, 
and with the hydrogen to form water. The hydrogen and 
nitrogen unite and form ammonia, and this occasions the 
peculiar, unpleasant odor of all putrefying bodies. In sub- 
stances rich in sulphur and phosphorus, the hydrogen unites 
with them and forms sulphuretted and phosphoretted gases 
which are very offensive. Therefore, if we exclude the air or 
oxygen from such substances, we can arrest decomposition. 
This is done by keeping them in air-tight vessels, thus remov- 
ing the oxygen from the outside ; and by boiling or drying, to 
remove that which is diffused within. Freezing will have the 
same effect; also salting or preserving. The salt draws out the 
moisture, hardens the albumen, and prevents the access of 
oxygen. In preserving, by the use of a strong solution of sugar, 
the watery juices are drawn out and formed into a thick syrup 
which excludes the air. 

There are some albuminous substances, such as isinglass and 
gelatine, which are taken as food ; but, strictly speaking, they 
are not flesh-formers. Isinglass is obtained from the sound, 
or swimming bladder, of the sturgeon, and is imported from 
Russia. It is not actually gelatine, but is transformed into it 
by boiling water. Gelatine is obtained from bones. Ossein is 
that part of the bones to which their strength and elasticity are 
due. It is insoluble in cold water, but is slowly dissolved and 
changed into gelatine by being boiled gently under a pressure 
sufficient to prevent the escape of steam. Gelatine is also ob- 
tained from tendons, calves' feet, fish scales, stag's horns, etc. 

There, are other varieties of nitrogenous food which are also 
carbonaceous. These are commonly included under the general 



The Boston Cook Book. 463 

term Beverages; namely, tea, coffee, cocoa, and chocolate. The 
nitrogenous principle of tea is theine ; of coffee, caffeine ; and of 
chocolate, theobromine. Tea also contains iron and manganese. 

Drinks, Beverages, and Liquid Foods are classified as follows : 
water, including rain, well, and mineral spring water; mucilagi- 
nous, farinaceous, or saccharine drinks, including toast water, 
Irish moss, and barley water, sago, tapioca, arrowroot, and other 
gruels; aromatic or astringent drinks, including, tea, coffee, chocc* 
late, cocoa, and herb teas ; acidulous drinks, including lemonade, 
raspberry vinegar, and other fruit syrups ; animal broths, or drinks 
containing gelatine, including soups, broths, and beef tea; emul- 
sive drinks, including milk ; alcoholic and intoxicating drinks, 
including wines, cider, beer, ale, porter, brandy, and whiskey. 

Water is discussed under Non-Combustible Foods. Receipts 
for mucilaginous and acidulous drinks, animal broths, and herb 
teas are given in the chapter on Cookery for the Sick. The 
aromatic drinks are included in a separate article under the head 
of Beverages. Alcoholic drinks will not be discussed for want 
of space. Milk is food as well as drink, and deserves especial 
consideration. 

Milk. 

Milk consists of three distinct substances, which separate 
from one another after standing awhile, — the cream, curd, 
and whey. * 

The cream is the carbonaceous part, and forms ten or twelve 
per cent of the whole. It consists of very small globules of fat, 
or butter, invisible to the naked eye, surrounded by a fine mem- 
brane of caseine or albuminous matter. These are dispersed in 
the milk at first; but as they are lighter than the other parts, 
they rise to the top of the milk in the form of cream. When the 
cream is churned, the membrane of each globule is ruptured, 
causing the butter to cohere in a separate mass. If all this 
caseine, or albuminous matter, be not removed, the butter soon 
becomes rancid. The butter has more margarine than oleine, 
and is therefore hard and firm instead of fluid. It contains 
butyric acid, which gives it its peculiar flavor. 

The curd is the albuminous part of the milk, which separates 
in a solid form whenever milk sours or curdles. This separa- 
tion is occasioned by the action of the oxygen in the air upon 
the nitrogen in the caseine, causing a portion of the caseine to 
ferment. This ferment acts upon the sugar of the milk, and 
converts it into lactic acid ; and this acid acts as any other acid 



464 The Boston Cook Book. 

would, and causes the sourness of the milk. The caseine is in- 
soluble in water, but in the milk it is combined with soda, and 
this compound is soluble. So, when the milk sours, and a suffi- 
cient quantity of acid is formed, it seizes upon the soda, takes it 
away from the caseine, and forms lactate of soda. The caseine, 
being thus set free, shrinks, and gathers into an insoluble curdy 
mass. This separation is spontaneous; but it is often caused 
artificially, by the use of an acid, — usually rennet, which is the 
lining membrane of a calf's stomach. The curd thus separated 
is pressed and prepared in various forms of cheese. It contains 
the nutritious elements of the milk in a condensed, but somewhat 
indigestible form. Cheese is more digestible when made from 
fresh than from skimmed milk. 

The whey is the water of the milk that separates from the curd 
In souring, and contains dissolved in it the sugar of milk and the 
Baline and mineral ingredients. It is much better to use milk 
in its natural state than to use the butter or cheese obtained 
from it. It is the cheapest form in which animal food can be 
obtained, and should be used freely, especially by the young or 
weak. 

Condensed milk, when well prepared, is convenient and valu- 
able as an article of diet, if fresh milk cannot be obtained. It 
can only be made from pure milk, and is therefore perfectly 
harmless. 



CONDIMENTS. 

There is another class of foods, called condiments, which should 
not pass unnoticed. 

Food that *' tastes good " is digested more readily, and assimi- 
lated more perfectly, so that we really derive more nourishment 
from it. We use many articles with our food to make it taste 
better, which are not in themselves valuable as food. But by 
stimulating the flow of saliva and gastric juice, and enhancing 
the fine flavor of food, they increase the pleasure of eating, and 
render digestion more complete. These are called condiments. 
They are not necessary to persons of sound digestion, and, with 
the exception of salt, should not be used by children, nor by any 
one in large quantities. In perfect digestion there is the first 
taste in the mouth and the after-taste of the digestive organs 
which require satisfaction. " Any cook may gratify the first, 
but the second requires a skilled chemist/' 



The Boston Cook Book. 465 

The principal condiments are salt, pepper, mustard, and some 
herbs, including mint, thyme, parsley, sage, marjoram, summer 
savory, and bay leaves ; spices, including ginger, nutmeg, cinna- 
mon, clove, mace, and allspice; and flavorings or extracts of 
lemon, vanilla, orange, almond, pineapple, etc. 

Salt is the only condiment actually necessary to health (see 
page 455). 

Pepper is a stimulant when taken in small quantities, but irri- 
tating if taken in excess. It is the dried berry of a climbing 
plant of the piper family. The whole peppers are called pepper- 
corns. These peppercorns are ground, and we have black pepper. 
The outer shells are sometimes removed before grinding, and 
these kernels ground give us wkite pepper, which has a different 
flavor and is less pungent than black pepper. Red or Cayenne 
pepper consists of seed-vessels or pods of different species of 
capsicum ground to powder. It is stimulating, and far more 
wholesome than the black pepper, though not as much used. It 
is valuable as a medicine. 

Mustard is used as a condiment and medicine. It is made 
from seeds of black and white mustard, which are crushed be- 
tween rollers, and then pounded in mortars. In small quantities 
it is good for digestion. Both red pepper and mustard, if used 
sparingly with indigestible food, like lobster and baked beans, 
are very useful. 

The herbs are used dried or green, and when used judiciously, 
make meats, soups, and sauces more palatable. 

Spices are used in cakes and articles of food containing sugar, 
and sometimes with meats. They are used whole, ground, and 
in the extract. Ginger is the most healthful, and is often used 
in sickness. It is a valuable stimulating tonic in hot weather. 
The other spices are better when mixed in small quantities, less 
of clove and more of cinnamon being used. When combined so 
that no one spice predominates, they are pleasant to the taste. 
Care should be taken lest they hide the natural flavor of the 
food. 

Flavors are all good in small quantities. Almond, vanilla, 
lemon, and pineapple are often adulterated. They should never 
be added while the article is hot, as the heat wastes the strength 
of the flavor. Vanilla beans are better than the extract. It is 
always well, if possible, to use the fresh fruit juice. 

Lemon juice and vinegar, used in moderation, increase the sol- 
vent properties of the gastric juice, and are useful with meats 
and vegetables which are difficult of digestion. 

80 



466 The Boston Cook Book. 



PROPER PROPORTION OP FOOD. 

These different kinds of food, water, salts, sugar, starch, fat y 
and albumen, must be combined in our diet; for a simple sub- 
stance which fulfils only one of the purposes required in our 
food will not support life. A man cannot live on water or salt, 
yet he would soon die without them. A diet composed exclu- 
sively of fats, starch, or sugar is equally incapable of supporting 
life. The albuminous foods, though they are considered the most 
nutritious, must be combined with the others to produce the 
desired result. • 

Milk is the only substance prepared by nature expressly as an 
article of food. Seeds grow, and produce plants and fruits after 
their kind; but milk is prepared as the natural food of the 
young of all mammalia. A baby fea on milk develops in every 
part; therefore milk must supply every requisite for the growth 
of the young body, and the proportions in woman's milk may be 
taken as the standard for human food. Milk analyzed is found 
to contain water, salt, fat, sugar, and caseine, — the five ele- 
ments of food. It has enough of flesh -producing elements to 
restore the daily waste, and enough heat-giving elements to feed 
the oxygen in breathing. But when the teeth are formed, the 
child's system needs a greater proportion of some elements than 
are supplied by the milk, and other foods are gradually added 
to the diet. 

Eggs also contain all the necessary elements ; a diet of seven 
eggs per day furnishes all the nutrition a person needs. But 
the elements in eggs are too highly condensed, and are not 
properly proportioned for a continuous diet. 

Many articles of food do not contain all these elements, and 
it is very important to proportion our food rightly, so that one 
kind will supply what another lacks. A certain bulk is also 
necessary in our food to stimulate a thorough action of the diges- 
tive fluids. If the quantity be not sufficient to distend the 
stomach, so that the churning motion of the muscular coats can 
affect every part of the food, the digestion is imperfect. Dys- 
pepsia is often caused by lack of sufficient quantity of food, and 
by weakness of the muscles of the stomach. If this requisite 
quantity be wholly nutritious or highly condensed food, capable 
of entire absorption, the effect is too stimulating, and serious 
disorders of the alimentary canal are the result. To remedy 
this, it is necessary to have a certain amount of innutritious 



The Boston Cook Book. 467 

food, which furnishes the bulk required, and gives all parts of 
the digestive apparatus their proper amount of work to perform. 

Many persons argue in favor of a vegetable diet, as' we can 
obtain from vegetables all the necessary elements. There have 
been many cases known where people lived to an extreme age 
who used exclusively a vegetable diet, and others who lived 
equally as long upon animal food. But the general rule is, that 
we find the highest degree of bodily and mental vigor only 
among those who make use of a mixed diet. One of the strong- 
est physiological arguments in favor of this rule is found in the 
structure and conformation of the teeth and alimentary canal. 
Part of the teeth are of the carnivorous, or flesh-eating kind, 
and part of the herbivorous, or vegetable-eating kind. The 
alimentary canal is equally well adapted to the digestion of ani- 
mal or vegetable food, or an admixture of both. The proper 
proportion, by weight, is one third of animal, and two thirds of 
vegetable food. 

" Nature has given us an unerring guide to a proper choice of 
diet. An unperverted appetite is the voice of the physical sys- 
tem making known its needs, and it may always be trusted to 
indicate the food necessary to the preservation of health. But 
as the voice of nature is often unheeded, it is necessary to exer- 
cise intelligence in selecting our food and adapting it to the 
circumstances of life. By a proper choice we can often coun- 
teract the effects of a violation of nature's laws." 



ADAPTATION OF FOOD TO CLIMATE, AGE, OCCU- 
PATION, AND STATE OF HEALTH. 

In examining the foods adopted by different nations and 
classes of people, we find that many choose instinctively the 
kind best adapted to their individual needs. The climate, occu- 
pation, and water influence their choice. 

Climate. — Animal food is better for cold than for hot cli- 
mates. We breathe more rapidly, take in more oxygen in cold 
weather, and the internal fire burns up more of the food. We 
exercise more, and this causes more rapid wearing out of muscle 
and flesh. Fat meat is not digested easily unless exercise be 
taken freely; more oxygen must be mixed with it to produce 
heat than is required for sugar and starch. In summer, when 
we exercise less, the waste is less, and we need less warmth* 



468 The Boston Cook Book. 

giving food. The starch and sugar obtained from fruits and 
vegetables are easily digested, and furnish sufficient warmth. 
The Esquimaux or Greenlander consumes a large quantity of 
fat, or blubber oil, the most condensed form of carbonaceous 
food. This gives him the amount of heat necessary in an ex- 
tremely cold climate. With this blubber he mixes some indi- 
gestible substances to give the needed bulk for the perfect 
action of the stomach. The people of Norway, Sweden, and 
Russia use large quantities of oily fish. In China, India, and 
other extremely hot climates, rice is the universal food. Rice 
contains a very small amount of flesh-forming material, being 
mostly starch, which is changed into sugar by the action of the 
saliva. The natives of rice-eating countries owe much of their 
lack of spirit and energy to this defective diet. But when eaten 
with butter or olive oil, and made into curries, pilaf, and pilau, 
with a small amount of flesh or fish, it supplies all the elements 
necessary for life in such climates. The Spaniard in his olla 
podrida — a stew of peas, bacon, or fowl, with' red pepper — finds 
all the necessary elements. The red pepper, used so largely in 
the curries and other dishes common to hot climates, stimulates 
the liver, which is naturally weakened by the long-continued 
heat, and thus assists digestion. The Arab chooses dates, parched 
grains, mare's or cameVs milk. The Turk adds .to these melons 
and cucumbers. As we come northward again, we find more 
flesh-forming material in the polenta (a dish made of Indian 
corn) and the chestnuts, macaroni, and cheese used by the Italians. 
The pol-au-feu is the principal dish of every peasant in France. 
This furnishes the cheapest form of nutriment, and contains all 
the necessary elements of food. 

The waters of a country sometimes determine the national 
food. In Ireland, where the waters are strongly impregnated 
with lime, they furnish what the potato, which is richer in pot- 
ash and soda, lacks. When potatoes are combined with cabbage 
and pork, as in kolcannon, the flesh-forming element is supplied ; 
and this, on account of the cost of meat, the laboring classes are 
unable to obtain' in any other form. In England and Scotland, 
where the waters are soft, oats and wheat, which are rich in 
phosphates, are the staple diet. When combined with milk, 
eggs, rice, peas, beans, bacon, and cheese, their food is complete. 

To satisfy the natural instinct to obtain these five elements, 
we all prefer our bread with butter or cream, our meat with 
potatoes, our rice with butter, milk, or eggs; our fish we cook 
in fat; we eat liver with bacon and ham, or bacon with eggs; 



The Boston Cook Booh ' 469 

we eat cheese with crackers, butter with cauliflower or cabbage, 
salt with all vegetables, oil with salad, and fresh vegetables with 
salt meat. Fruits and foods intended to be eaten raw contain a 
large proportion of water. This is supplied, when lessened by 
evaporation, by cookiug and soaking in water. In cooking 
meats, we endeavor to retain all the juices, which are largely 
water. In spring we crave fresh green vegetables and salads, 
that we may have the potash salts of which there has been a 
deficiency in the winter diet. 

Occupation affects our choice of diet. Persons engaged in sed- 
entary occupations cannot digest as much nor as easily as those 
who labor out of doors. They should have food that gives the 
greatest amount of nourishment in the smallest compass, and it 
should be served in the most digestible form Those who tax 
" their brains severely should have animal food and the most 
digestible forms of starchy and warmth-giving foods. Those 
who exercise freely in the open air may take a larger quantity, 
and it need not be the most digestible, as they require food that 
will stay by them. The laborer instinctively prefers potatoes 
underdone, or "with a bone in them;" and he chooses salt 
meat, not only because it is cheaper, but because it stands by 
him longer. The salt causes him to drink water freely, and 
this supplies the w r aste caused by excessive perspiration. A 
diet of vegetables, peas, beans, cheese, oatmeal, bacon, and 
the cheaper, more indigestible parts of meat properly cooked, 
is suitable for laboring people. 

State of Health. — In selecting food with reference to health it 
must be remembered that there are certain general rules which 
have been established by the best authorities through many ages 
and in a great variety of circumstances; there are, however, 
some exceptions to these general rules. Milk is considered a 
wholesome food, yet there are some persons who cannot take it. 
Cheese is a cheap and nourishing food for laboring people, but 
there are some persons to whom it is an active poison. This is 
also true of oysters and strawberries. These exceptions are 
owing to some idiosyncrasy of the palate or weakness of the 
digestive organs, and should be regarded only as exceptions, 
which do not affect the general principle. 

The application of these general principles, given throughout 
this book in connection with the various articles used as food, 
must be left to each individual ; but to those who have given 
the subject no serious study a few hints may be helpful. They 
will be found in the article treating of Cooking for the Invalid. 



470 The Boston Cook Book. 



NOURISHING AND STIMULATING FOOD. 

There is another classification of food which it is well to con* 
sider briefly. In its effect upon the system food is nourishing 
and stimulating, or the reverse. 

Nourishing foods are those which serve to develop perfectly 
every animal function, but do not increase the strength and 
speed of organic action beyond the point of full nutrition. 
Bread, vegetables, fruits, sugar, salt, and water are nourishing 
foods. 

Nourishing and Stimulating Food. — All food that nourishes 
the body is in one sense stimulating, as it gives renewed energy 
to the bodily functions. But there are foods which impart a 
speed and energy to the organs above that necessary to per- 
fect nutrition; these are termed stimulating foods. Animal 
food is of this class. 

Stimulants. — Alcoholic drinks and condiments are classed as 
stimulants, because they impart no nourishment, but act simply 
as excitants to preternatural activity. 

Innutritious foods are those which are not assimilated ; which 
are by nature indigestible, or have been made so by improper 
combinations and modes of cooking. The bran of wheat, fried 
or greasy food, heavy bread, and rich soggy pastry are either 
entirely unassimilated, and therefore not nourishing, or they 
weaken the system by exciting particular organs to excessive 
action. 



The Boston Cook Book. 471 



DIGESTION. 

In studying digestion, it is well to keep in mind the twofold 
division of food into nitrogenous, or flesh-forming, and carbona- 
ceous, or heat-producing, elements. The process of digestion 
differs with the character of the food. The purpose of diges- 
tion is to change and combine all the elements of food into a 
fluid which will mingle with the blood, become assimilated, and 
furnish nutriment for the body. 

Digestion is not confined to the stomach. It begins with in- 
salivation in the mouth, and, after deglutition, is carried on in the 
stomach and intestines, the process continuing through the entire 
length of the alimentary canal, — a tube varying in diameter, 
and thirty-six feet in length. 

The first pi-ocess in digestion, as in any chemical analysis, is 
to crush the materials. The teeth are the grinders for reducing 
the food. If we bolt our food or swallow it in lumps, the soft 
coats of the stomach are made to do the tearing and grinding 
work of the teeth. A solvent being necessary, the saliva is 
secreted from the blood, and is poured through three pairs of 
glands into the mouth, each pair supplying a different saliva. 
This softens the starch and tender cellulose. Animals, like the 
beaver, which feed chiefly on woody matters, have very large 
salivary glands. 

In health the saliva is always alkaline, especially during and 
after meals. It lubricates the mouth, and moistens the food so 
that it may assume a pasty condition. It is also necessary to 
the sense of taste, everything being tasteless that the saliva can- 
not dissolve. For this reason we cook and season our food so 
that it will excite the flow of the saliva. 

" This saliva is poured into the mouth not to be cast out, but to 
do a specific work, then pass into the stomach and be again ab- 
sorbed. If the system be drained of the saliva by profuse spit- 
ting, as is the case with those who use tobacco freely, the order 
of bodily functions is reversed, and the mouth is made to do the 
work of the kidneys, which is to carry away a large amount of 
the superfluous water and all the waste salts." 



472 The Boston Cook Book. 

The saliva consists mostly of water, with a very small amount of 
saline matter and about five parts in one thousand of ptyalin, an 
albuminous ingredient, or ferment, which has the power of con- 
verting the starchy portions of food into sugar, and sugar into 
lactic acid, but does not act upon nitrogenous food. The saliva 
froths easily, and aids in carrying air into the stomach. 

This is the first step in digestion, and the most important, as 
any error in the beginning leads to evil consequences which affect 
the whole process. It is also important, because it is wholly a 
voluntary process. While the food is in the mouth, we may 
masticate it thoroughly or imperfectly, and swallow or reject 
it. But when deglutition has carried it into the stomach, it is 
wholly beyond our control, and we are not responsible for the 
remainder of the process, only so far as it may be affected by 
error in the first stages. Bread, potatoes, and all starchy foods 
should be thoroughly masticated, and mingled with the saliva. 
Meat may be swallowed hastily, or knives may be made to do 
the work of the teeth in masticating animal food; but' no chemist 
can prepare an artificial saliva to be mixed with starchy food, to 
save the trouble of chewing it. If a piece of dry light bread be 
masticated thoroughly, it will crumble and be quickly mixed 
with the saliva, and become sweeter the longer it is kept in the 
mouth. The alkaline saliva changes the starch into sugar, and 
begins the digestion. Try to chew a piece of hot bread and it 
at once assumes a pasty condition, which neither teeth nor saliva 
can penetrate, and is swallowed involuntarily. A piece of putty 
would not be more indigestible. If this experiment be tried, 
no other argument would be needed against the use of hot 
bread. 

The stomach carries on the second part of digestion. The 
presence of food excites the flow of a fluid called the gastric juice, 
which is secreted in large quantities in the mucous mem- 
brane of the stomach. At the same time the muscular coats 
of the stomach contract, and produce a sort of churning motion, 
I which carries the food round and round and over and over, ex- 
posing all parts of it to the action of the fluid. This gastric 
juice is always decidedly acid in its nature, containing hydro- 
chloric acid. The lactic acid formed from the sugar in the 
mouth is also present in the stomach. This acid arrests the 
work begun in the mouth on the starchy foods, renders the alkali 
neutral, and acts only on albuminous food. It contains an 
albuminous ingredient, or ferment, called pepsin, in about the 
same proportion as the ptyalin of the saliva. The pepsin 



The Boston Cook Book. 473 

mixed with the lactic acid is powerful enough to dissolve all 
the albumen and fibrine of flesh food into albuminose, and sets 
free the starch, sugar, and fat, melts the fat, but does not 
change either. When there is an excess or deficiency of acid 
in the stomach, the digestion is abnormal. Pepsin is sometimes 
used as a remedy for dyspepsia, and^is obtained from the 
stomachs of young, healthy pigs which are kept hungry. 

As all food which is to nourish the system must be converted 
into a fluid form, any substances which are taken in fluid 
form and afterward solidified in the stomach, as blood or juice 
of flesh, milk, and raw eggs, must be changed again to a per- 
manent liquid form before they can be absorbed. All nitro- 
genous matters are not only dissolved by the gastric fluid, but 
are modified so as to remain dissolved. These changed albu- 
minous matters are called peptones. Oil plays an important 
part in these changes, so that, although oil is not digested, it 
serves a useful purpose in passing through the stomach. 

The stomach would digest itself were it not protected by a 
sheathing of mucus and by a continual forming of cells called 
epithelium, during the process of digestion. The liquid or watery 
portions of food enter at once into the circulation by absorption. 
If too much water be taken with food, it dilutes the gastric 
juice and retards the digestion ; as all that is not needed must 
be absorbed before digestion can go on. 

Digestion is also retarded by the presence of very hot or very 
cold food, as everything taken into the stomach has to be 
changed to the normal temperature of 100°. A large amount of 
food overloads the stomach, distends the muscular coats, and 
lessens the power of motion. Too little food is also a mistake, 
as the stomach needs a certain amount of bulk to work upon. 
Continual or irregular eating is wholly contrary to the intention 
of nature, since it does not allow the stomach time to rest and 
to form new cells to secrete digestive fluids. Flesh food that 
is finely minced, like hash, croquettes, and many entrees, passes 
rapidly through the stomach without being dissolved by the 
gastric juice; but when taken in larger pieces it remains long 
enough to be all digested. 

The digestive power of the stomach is weakened when there 
is any undue action in any other part of the body, as in great 
muscular exertion or in powerful excitement of the brain. 
Therefore we should eat sparingly at first, when fatigued by 
exercise or study or when unduly excited, and should rest 
awhile after eating. 



474 The Boston Cook Book. 

Lactic acid, small portions of sugar and digested nitrogenous 
substances, pass into the blood by absorption through the 
stomach veins. Thus the contents of the stomach leave it in 
two directions: a portion is absorbed through the coats of the 
stomach by the process of osmose, or the passage of fluids 
through animal membranes ; the remainder passes through the 
pyloric opening into the duodenum and intestines for the com- 
pletion of digestion. Food from the stomach enters the duode- 
num in an acid state, and in the intestines is mingled with 
three alkaline fluids, all containing soda. 

The pancreatic fluid, secreted from the pancreas, digests the 
fatty matters. It breaks the large granules of oil and fat into a 
great many minute particles, and converts them into a milky 
liquid called chyle, which mixes freely with water and passes 
through the tissues of the intestines into the lacteals. It also 
changes th,e starch into sugar, and the sugar into lactic acid, but 
has very little action on albuminous substances. 

The bile, secreted from the liver, plays an important part in 
intestinal digestion, the exact nature of which is unknown. 
Bile is a complex liquid, consisting of biliary acid in combina- 
tion with soda. It certainly aids in the absorption of fat, aud 
many suppose its purpose is to lubricate the walls of the intes- 
tinal canal; from its soapy consistency it effects a smooth, non- 
irritating passage of the contents. If there be any lack or 
surplus of the bile, it soon produces an injurious result in the 
system. The bile is in the intestines, and not in the stomach 
except when the action of the stomach is inverted, in nausea 
and vomiting; then the bile is forced up into the stomach in- 
stead of down into the intestines. 

The intestinal juice, secreted in the mucous membrane the 
entire length of the intestine, combines the active and digestive 
powers of all the other secretions. 

The lactic acid is formed so rapidly from the digestion of 
sugar that the contents of the intestine quickly becomes acidu- 
lous, and this completes the digestion of any portions of nitro- 
genous food not fully digested in the stomach. The combined 
amount of the salivary, gastric, pancreatic, biliary, and intes- 
tinal fluids secreted daily is twenty-one pints, of which the 
gastric juice forms more than one half. There are mechanical 
aids to intestinal as well as stomach digestion. The writhing, 
worm-like motion, or peristaltic movement, of the muscular coats 
of the intestines forces the food downward, and exposes all 
portions of it to the digestive fluids. 



The Boston Cook Booh 475 

Notwithstanding all these powerful agents in digestion, a 
portion of useful matter passes through the intestines un- 
changed; and if there be a deficiency of either fluid, or a 
weakness of the muscular coats, or too great a quantity of irri- 
tating substance, like cellulose, woody fibre, bran, etc., the 
amount is increased. This is carried, with the innutritious 
portion, into the larger intestine, and forms a part of the 
excretions. 



ABSORPTION. 

The nutritive and perfectly digested portions of food are 
absorbed partly by the veins of the stomach, entering at once 
into the circulation, and partly by the intestines. The lining 
membrane of the intestines folds over and over upon itself, like 
a ruffle, along the entire edge; this is full of little tubes, or villi, 
which absorb the chyle. 

The blood vessels absorb the nutritive elements from the villi 
and carry them to the veins in two ways: 1st. Through the 
portal vein into the liver, where it penetrates every part of the 
liver, theu passes out through the hepatic vein into the veins 
near the heart; 2d. Through the lacteals, which are attached to 
the lining membrane of the intestines and empty into the 
thoracic duct, a tube extending along the spine, and then into 
the subclavian vein, which lies in the left side of the neck, 
under the collar bone. The veins also bring with them the 
lymph, — a thin colorless fluid which comes from the absorbent 
vessels situated all over the body, and which contains the 
worn-out particles. 

Then the venous blood, supplied from the lacteals with new 
material, and from the lymphatic vessels with waste materials, 
enters the heart through the upper door, or right auricle, passes 
through the valves down into the right ventricle; out through 
the pulmonary artery into the lungs, where, as purple venous 
blood, it penetrates to the most remote capillaries. 

If the lungs be full of pure fresh air, the oxygen changes the 
purple blood into red blood, and burns up the impurities. The 
waste products of the combustion of carbon and hydrogen are 
expelled from the lungs at every breath in the form of carbonic 
acid and watery vapor; and not until now can the new elements 
in the blood, obtained from the food, become in reality food, or 
perfect blood. 



476 The Boston Cook Booh 



This oxygenized or vitalized blood now returns from the lungs, 
and enters the heart through the left upper door, or left auricle; 
the valves open and allow it to pass into the left ventricle, 
then out through the aorta, or great artery, from which the 
arteries carry it to the capillaries all over the system. 

In the capillaries the new material is deposited wherever 
needed, and changed by cell growth into new tissue. The 
lymphatic vessels take up all that is not needed, with the 
worn-out portions; and the veins then carry this impure blood 
back again to the lungs and heart. 

Thus a continuous circulation is established, the blood coursing 
over the whole body once in every three to five minutes, the time 
varying with the amount of exercise and the state of health. 
During this circulation the combustible compounds are burned 
by the oxygen received into the blood in the lungs, the carbona- 
ceous products of combustion are expelled through the luugs as 
carbonic acid gas and watery vapor, and the nitrogenous pro- 
ducts through the kidneys in the form of urates. 

" This process of digestion and absorption is really a kind of 
preliminary cooking process, going on from the mouth downwards 
all the way to the colon ; and from every part of the long canal 
tiny lacteals and absorbing yeinlets carry off contributions of 
food either to the general store of chyle, or to the venous blood 
which is hurrying back to the heart." 



NUTRITION. 

44 Albumen is the basis of all animal nutrition. This is seen 
in the bird's egg during incubation. Under the influence of 
warmth and oxygen, all the tissues, membranes, and bones are 
developed from albumen." 

In the human body a nutritious fluid is prepared from the 
food, and supplies materials for growth and repair. This fluid 
is the blood, and when examined under the microscope is found 
to consist of a clear colorless fluid, of a saline, alkaline, and 
albuminous nature, and an immense number of infinitely minute 
blood globules, or corpuscles. These corpuscles consist of ^n 
albuminous membrane called globulin, filled with a red coloring 
matter, hematine, in which there is much iron. 

This liquid albuminous portion of the blood must be changed 
to fibrine before it can nourish the muscles of the body. The 



The Boston Cook Book. 477 

change of the gluten, caseine, and all the varieties of albuminous 
food into fibrine is a gradual process, begun in the lacteals, con- 
tinued in the circulation of the blood, and completed in the lungs 
by the oxygen which they receive in breathing. This fibrine 
remains in the liquid state, owing to the alkaline nature of the 
blood, and is distributed by the circulation into all parts of the 
structure, where it gradually coagulates into a network of tough 
thread-like fibres, enclosing in its meshes the blood corpuscles, 
and is changed by cell growth into new tissue, solid flesh and 
bone. 

The nervous system is also built and repaired from albumen. 
Nervous matter is about seven per cent albumen, and is the 
material by which we are put into relation with the external 
world. By it we see, hear, feel, taste, smell, and are conscious 
of existence. 

Each elementary cell or particle of tissue, whether of bone, 
flesh, or nerves, seems to have a sort of gland-like power, not 
only of attracting materials from the blood, but of causing them 
to assume its structure and participate in its properties. The 
bones and teeth select and appropriate the phosphates of lime, 
and magnesia, also fluorine. The muscles and nerves take 
fibrine, phosphates of magnesia, and potash. The cartilages 
seek for soda; the hair, skin, and nails are made up of silica. 
Iron is needed in the coloring matter of the blood, the black 
pigment of the eye, and in the hair. Sulphur exists in the hair, 
and phosphorus in the brains. The glands of the mouth take 
the substances necessary to form saliva; those of the eye, the 
elements of tears; the coats of the stomach, gastric juice; and 
the liver, bile. Each part of the body has the power to select, 
from the common supply, the material which suits it best for 
building and growing. 

If the conversion of albumen into fibrine be incomplete, the 
tissues are imperfectly nourished. The formation of tubercles 
in the lungs is caused by half-formed cells and coagulated albu- 
men deposited in the lungs. This is caused by a deficiency of 
the oily matter, which is necessary for the perfect formation of 
cells and the growth of healthy tissue. Hence for these cases 
physicians prescribe cod-liver oil. 

Distilled spirits coagulate the albumen which ought to go 
into the blood; this prevents the proper digestion of food, and 
causes one of the great evils resulting from their use. The ner- 
vous tissue is thus deprived of nourishment, which is one of the 
causes of delirium tremens. 



478 The Boston Cook Booh 

Every twinge of pain in neuralgia is the nerves crying out 
for better blood. Imperfect digestion and assimilation of food 
are the chief causes of neuralgia. 

Nutrition, though seemingly complex, is really a simple pro- 
cess; albumen is changed to fibrine, and nbrine to flesh. The 
relation of each to the other has been aptly compared to that of 
the raw cotton, the spun yarn, and the woven fabric. 

The minute corpuscles in the blood are constantly building up 
the body, very much as the coral insect builds its structure. The 
work of each corpuscle is too small for our conception ; but, taken 
in the aggregate, the result is the wonderful growth and renova- 
tion of the human body. And what is still more wonderful, 
every organ of the body is on the alert to keep the whole system 
in natural health. The activity of the vessels which remove 
the waste particles from the blood is untiring. The kidneys 
are the scavengers of the body, and stand next to the lungs in 
renovating it. If too much water be drunk, the kidneys, lungs, 
and skin carry it off, for fear that the blood should become too 
watery. We may cease to convey food into the body for days 
with no evil consequences; but let the removing organs cease 
operations for a single day, and disease ensues. 



LIFE AND MOTION.* 

Circulation of Water. — As a plant grows, water from the soil 
or air unites chemically with carbon, and forms the woody fibre 
of the stem, the sugar of the sap, and the starch of the seed. 
When the plant dies, the water is again set free from its struc- 
ture and passes into the air. The starch and sugar, also, which 
the plant yields having been consumed by some animal, the 
water which they contain passes into the air through the lungs 
and skin. Thus the same water is caused to revolve in a circle 
of life-sustaining combinations. Within a single hour it may 
be in some vegetable structure in the form of sugar; then it 
may pass into and circulate through some animal system and 
be discharged as vapor from the lungs, and afterwards become 

1 This article is mainly an abstract of the chapters on the " Circulation 
of Matter," contained in "Johnston's Chemistry of Common Life." It is 
inserted here as bearing upon the general subject of food, and with the hop* 
that all who read this will read the original. 



The Boston Cook Book. 479 

absorbed by thirsty leaves and aid in the growth of flowers and 
fruits. 

Circulation of Carbon. — Vegetables, which are largely starch 
and carbon, absorb carbonic-acid gas from the atmosphere, which 
contains thirty-three grains of carbon in every square inch. If 
the world were all dry land, and covered with dense vegetation, 
all the carbon would be extracted from the atmosphere in twenty- 
three years. This carbonic acid is restored to the atmosphere by 
the waste and decay of vegetable matter, by the exhalations from 
animals, and by combustion. 

The leaf of a living plant draws in carbonic acid gas from the 
air, and gives off the oxygen contained in it, retaining only the 
carbon. The roots drink in moisture from the soil ; and out of 
the carbon and water contained in it the plant forms starch, 
sugar, fat, and other substances. 

The animal takes the starch, sugar, or fat into its stomach, 
and draws in oxygen through its lungs. New chemical combina- 
tions are thus formed, undoing the work of the plant, and send- 
ing back to the air, from the lungs and skin, both the starch and 
oxygen, in the form of carbonic-acid gas and water. The same 
material is constantly circulating, — now floating in invisible air, 
now forming the substance of the growing plant, now of the 
moving animal, and now diffusing itself through the air ready 
to go its round again. It forms part of a vegetable to-day; to- 
morrow it is in a man's backbone; a week hence it may have 
passed through another plant and into another animal. 

In burning coal, we cause its carbon to unite with the oxygen 
of the air and to disappear as carbonic acid gas. The carbon 
returns to the atmosphere from which it may have been taken 
millions of years ago when it was appropriated by the glowing 
plants, which, in the form of vegetable matter, were afterwards 
buried beneath the surface of the earth only to reappear ages 
subsequently in the form of fuel. The earth itself breathes 
out carbonic acid, sometimes with water, sometimes alone. It 
sparkles in the springs of Carlsbad and Seltzer; it kills man and 
beast in the terrible " Valley of Death " in the island of Java. 

In this way is supplied the loss of that which is daily buried 
by the shell fish and coral insects in the limestone formations 
and coral growths. These rocks contain, chained down in seem- 
ingly everlasting imprisonment, two fifths of their weight of 
carbonic acid. 

Circulation of Nitrogen. — Gluten and fibrine are distinguished 
from starch and fat by containing nitrogen. The nitrogen forms 



480 The Boston Cook Booh 



four fifths of the air. It exists also in ammonia, ar.d in aqua 
fortis, or nitric acid. These two compound bodies exist and are 
found in the soil ; and from the soil the nitrogen is taken up by 
the plants, and gluten is formed. When the animal consumes 
the gluten, it builds up and renews the waste of its several parts. 
The gluten of the plant is transformed into the flesh and tissues 
of the living animal. Thus the nitrogen of the soil through 
the plant has reached the dignity of being a part of breathing, 
intellectual man. 

Having reached this form, this restless element, nitrogen, 
grows weary of inactivity and moves on. Not only the living 
body as a whole is in constant motion, but even its minutest 
parts are continually active. " They are like the population of 
a great city moving to and fro, coming and going continually, 
weeded out and removed every hour by deaths and departures, 
yet as unceasingly kept up in numbers by new in-comers, chang- 
ing from day to day so insensibly as to escape observation, yet 
so evidently that after a few years scarcely a known face can 
be discovered among the congregated thousands. ' ' Scarcely has 
the gluten of the plant been fitted comfortably to its place in the 
muscle, the skin, or the hair of the animal, when it begins to be 
dissolved again and is removed. 

The living animal absorbs much oxygen from the air by its 
lungs. One part of it converts the carbon of the food into car- 
bonic acid; another portion is built into the substance of the 
body ; a large part is employed in dissolving and removing the 
waste in urea, uric acid, etc. This urea and uric acid return to 
the soil from which the nitrogen they contain originally came, 
and where they are reconverted into ammonia, nitric acid, and 
other substances, and are now ready to enter into new roots and 
go the rounds again. 

The undigested gluten is rejected in the animal droppings, 
mingles with the soil, and is changed to ammonia and nitric 
acid. The vegetables which die undergo natural decay, and 
again enter the soil and air as elements. Animal bodies them- 
selves die at last, and the nitrogen they contain is made to assume 
the forms in which plants are able to take it up. The ammonia 
and volatile compounds of nitrogen, produced by animal and 
vegetable decay, rise in the form of gas or vapor, and escape 
into the air. The rains of heaven wash the ammonia out and 
bring it back to the earth. Part of it is, however, resolved into 
elementary nitrogen, and is thus lost to plants. To make up 
for this loss, nitric acid is formed in the air in small quantities. 



The Boston Cook Booh. 481 

Through the agency of the electric currents the oxygen and 
nitrogen of the air unite to form nitric acid. Ammonia is given 
off by volcanoes, and is returned to the earth by the rains and 
snows. 

Circulation of Mineral Matter. — Everything which the animal 
body contains is derived, directly or indirectly, from vegetable 
foods; and the mineral or ash it leaves, when burned, must have 
come from the soil through the plant. When the animal dies, 
its body sooner or later returns to the soil. So we have another 
circle in which the earthy matter of animals and plants moves. 
It ascends from the soil to the plant, then to the animal, and 
back again to mother earth, so that it is really " dust to dust." 

The plant does not absorb all mineral matters, but selects the 
rarer and more precious materials from the soil, and such as are 
held in solution by water. Phosphoric acid, lime, magnesia, and 
saline matter, of which common salt is a representative, are the 
principal substances chosen. The animal eating the vegetable, 
these substances enter its stomach, and are dissolved and enter 
the blood. The vessels provided for the purpose select the re- 
quired material, and, like ships in commerce, sail away on the 
blood rivers to their destined havens. The saline portion is car- 
ried to the blood and tissues. The phosphate of lime goes to the 
bones, and phosphate of potash to the muscles. After a time 
the animal, partly as it wastes and finally when it dies, returns 
to the soil all that the plant took from it. New plants receive 
it, and it goes the rounds again. 

So, over and over again, as the modeller fashions his clay, plant 
and animal are formed out of the same material. Is all sense- 
less matter to be constantly working, and are we intelligent 
beings to idle away a precious but limited existence ? One 
should learn from this always to work for a definite purpose. 

How lovely is the plant in its position of bond-servant of man ! 
How willing and interesting! It serves till death, yet rises again 
rejoicing as ever, when spring returns, to renew its destined 
toil. 

The least alteration in the natural constitution of things would 
insure the extinction of animal and vegetable life. 



81 



482 



The Boston Cook Book. 



RECAPITULATION. 



The Plant takes in, water, 
by its roots ; carbonic acid, by 
its leaves ; nitrogen, in the form 
of ammonia and nitric acid; 
minerals, in the form of phos- 
phoric acid, lime, common and 
other salts, from the soil. 

The Animal takes in, water, 
starch, fat, gluten, and mineral 
matters, in the form of vege- 
table and animal food, into its 
stomach; and oxygen into its 
lungs. 



The Plant produces, oxygen, 
from its leaves ; sugar, starch, 
gluten, and mineral matters, in 
its sap and solid substances. 



The Animal produces, car* 
bonic acid and water, which are 
exhaled from the skin and 
lungs; urea, phosphates, and 
other salts, in the excretions; 
the fat in the body, which is 
in time breathed away in the 
form of carbonic acid; water 
and perfect muscle, bone, blood, 
and tissues, to build and repair 
the body. 

The Soil produces, carbon in 
the form of wood and coal, and 
in spring water; ammonia, ni- 
tric acid, and other nitrogenous 
compounds ; phosphoric acid, 
lime, common salt, and other 
mineral matters. 



So the movement is circular; the beginning is the end. A 
marvellous commerce appears ; soil, plant, and animal commin- 
gling; the elements of each being at different times the element* 
of all, and their interchange perpetual. 



The Soil takes in, urea and 
other animal excretions, dead 
animals and plants. 



The Boston Cook Book. 483 



SUGGESTIONS TO TEACHERS. 

The Course of Instruction at the Boston Cooking School, 
which is inserted on page 496, may be helpful to those interested 
in establishing Schools of Cookery. 

Beginning with the care of a fire and the simple dishes in 
daily use, the course includes illustrations of every principle 
involved in cookery. Special attention is given to bread, soups, 
entrees, meats, healthful puddings, desserts, and dishes for the 
invalid. 

The course is so arranged that each lesson offers a bill of fare 
for breakfast, lunch, or dinner. The number of dishes prepared 
at each lesson should be determined by the age and ability of 
the pupils, and the character of the instruction desired. In 
some classes it is desirable to have the dishes which are prepared 
served at the close of the lesson ; thus an opportunity is given to 
instruct in laying the table and serving the food. 

With beginners or very young pupils, it is better to teach only 
two or three dishes at a lesson. Taking the first lesson in the 
first course for an example, a practice lesson may be conducted 
after the following plan. Explain first the construction of the 
stove and the making and care of a fire. When convenient, 
each pupil should take the entire care of a fire for one lesson. 
Let the pupils become familiar with the kitchen utensils, their 
names, and uses. The receipts should be read, and copied, if 
no text-book be used, and a portion of the work assigned each 
pupil. After the receipts are given, one pupil should prepare 
the yeast, another mix the bread, another pare and put the po- 
tatoes to soak, and another cut the bread for croutons, and wipe 
and trim the chops. The tables should be so arranged that 
pupils may watch what others are doing while busy about their 
own work. The attention of the whole class should be called 
to the making of the bread and yeast, and each in turn should 
help in the kneading. After the bread and yeast are set to rise, 
the potatoes should be put on to boil, the soup started, and the 
German toast prepared and left to soak. Those who prepared 
the bread and yeast may lay the table. When the potatoes and 



484 The Boston Cook Book. 

soup are done, keep them hot while the chops are being cooked, 
the toast browned, and the coffee made. Keep the other dishes 
hot while the soup is being served. Let the pupils share in turn 
the duties of waitress and hostess. 

In the second lesson the teacher should have ready for baking 
bread mixed the night before, and also some cold boiled potatoes. 
While one pupil is preparing the pans for the bread, another 
may shape part of the dough into a loaf, and then all may assist 
in shaping rolls or biscuit. The blanc-mange should be pre- 
pared next, and put away to cool. Then the meat and 
potatoes chopped for the hash, and the eggs boiled in various 
ways. One or two eggs will be sufficient to illustrate" soft- 
boiled eggs, and may be eaten at once. The hard-boiled eggs 
may be used in making scalloped eggs. The gruels may be 
made at any time, and tested when ready. Then start the 
potato soup, bake the rolls or bread, cook the fried or creamed 
potatoes and the hash, and while the table is being laid and the 
soup finished, another pupil may broil the fish. 

Where it is not desirable to have a lunch, or where only a few 
lessons are given, it is better to have each lesson devoted wholly 
to one subject. Irr<c lesson on bread, several kinds of bread 
may be mixed, and that baked which was mixed the night be- 
fore. Also make soda biscuit, rye muffins, and gems or corn 
cake. 

Or arrange the lessons with reference to the principles and 
methods of cooking, as shown in the programme for a course of 
lectures. 

In practice classes the pupils should do all the work under the 
guidance of the teacher. It is not enough that the work be 
done for them, letting them learn by looking on. They should 
do for themselves, the teacher directing and explaining. It is 
better to run the risk of spoiling a dish than not to give the 
pupils a chance to try, as a failure is often the best lesson pupils 
can have. Then they will know what to avoid when work- 
ing alone. In large classes or in a demonstration lesson, the 
work may all be done by the teacher with the assistance of the 
advanced pupils. 

During a lesson instruction should be given in washing dishes 
and in the buying and care of materials used in cooking, and the 
pupils should be encouraged to ask questions freely. Examine 
the pupils frequently in the general principles of cookery, and 
the nature of food materials. Although it is not necessary to 
memorize every receipt, yet every pupil should be sufficiently 



The Boston Cook Book. 485 

familiar with the rules to be able to make bread, soup, coffee, 
several kinds of puddings and dishes for invalids, and to cook a 
variety of meats and vegetables, without referring to a receipt. 
Each one should have a correct idea of proportions, that she may 
detect any error in a new receipt. 

Pupils should dress appropriately for their work, cultivate 
habits of neatness and order, and never be encouraged to think 
that any part of cooking is disagreeable or unworthy of their 
very best effort ; and the teacher should have unlimited patience 
with all, however inexperienced or careless they may be. 



A COURSE OF STUDY FOR NORMAL PUPILS. 

The Uses and Classification of Food. 

The Composition of the Human Body. 

Non-Combustible Food : Water and Salts. 

Condiments and Beverages. 

Carbonaceous Food : Starch, Sugar, and Fats. 

Nitrogenous Food : Milk, Eggs, Fish, Meat, Cereals, and 

Vegetables. 
Cookery ; Fire and Fuel. 
Methods of Cooking. 

Measuring, Mixing, and Tables of Proportions. 
Digestion, Absorption, Assimilation, and Nutrition. 
Proportion of Food and Adaptation to Climate; Occupation; 

Age and State of Health. 
Circulation of Water; Carbon, Nitrogen, and Mineral Matter. 



466 



The Boston Cook Book. 



MISCELLANEOUS QUESTIONS FOB 

EXAMINATION. 



[No attempt at-classification has been made in preparing these questions, 
as every teacher can testify that questions in daily life do not come in regular 
order.] 

How should a fire be built? What is the general plan upon 
which every stove is constructed? How should the heat be 
regulated in the oven? What articles are baked on the lower 
part of the oven ; on the grate? How is it in a set range? What 
is the difference between a stove and a range ; between a set range 
and a portable range? Where is the hottest place in the oven; 
on the top of the stove? How do you keep a steady fire to boil 
anything that must be kept at the same temperature several 
hours? What kind of a fire should you have for. broiling? 
How do you blacken a stove? How do you clean a stove 
while hot? What precautions should be taken while frying in 
deep fat ? How do you remove fat if spilled on a hot stove? 

How should meat be basted? How may you keep supplied 
with hot water? How do you wash glasses; silverware; greasy 
dishes; egg-beaters; bread boards and bowls? How do you 
clean frying-pans; kettles; iron pans? What are the best kinds 
of ware for general cooking? How do you clean tin and granite 
ware? What is to be done if anything burns on while boiling? 
How do you clean a refrigerator? How do you sharpen a knife? 
What is the best knife for paring; for scraping; for turning 
when frying? How do you keep a sink and dishpan clean? 

What is a set of " hollow ware," usually sold with a stove? 
What is a frying-pan; Scotch bowl; griddle; gridiron; broiler; 
stewpan; saucepan; digester; braising-pan ; gem pan; muffin 
pan? What is the difference between Washington, jelly-cake, 
squash, and mince pie plates? What is a gravy strainer; puree 
strainer; squash strainer; colander? What is the difference 
between a bread and meat-carving knife? What is a double 
boiler? When is an iron spoon not to be used, or a steel knife? 
What is the best spoon for cake-making; for basting meat; for 
stirring acid mixtures? How do you measure a tablespoonful of 



The Boston Cook Booh 487 

flour; a teaspoonful or half a teaspoonful of soda and cream of 
tartar; a cup of flour; or milk; or half a cup of butter? How 
do you grease a bread pan ; a cake pan lined with paper; a grid- 
dle; a gem pan; a waffle iron? How do you make a smooth 
flour thickening, or a thin batter? How do you peel potatoes 
and pare apples to keep them from discoloring? How should 
potatoes be boiled; rice; macaroni; vegetables, and cereals? 
What are the proportions of salt and water in boiling? How 
do you make tea, coffee, and chocolate? Why should water be 
used as soon as boiled? How should milk be boiled? How do 
you make a white sauce ; drawn butter ; brown gravy ? 

Why is meat for soup put into cold water? How do you make 
a stew? How do you keep pea soup from separating? How do 
you broil meat and fish? How do you toast bread? How do 
you boil eggs? How do you make boiled custard; yeast; water 
bread? How much yeast and flour is used to one quart of milk? 
How many brickloaf pans of bread will six quarts of flour make? 
What is the order of mixing in breakfast cakes; bread; cake? 
How do you know when bread is done ; steak ; cake ; oysters ? 
What is the proper method of frying? What is the test for 
frying? How should fried articles be drained? How much 
soda and cream of tartar for one quart of flour? Why does cold 
water settle coffee? Why does raw potato clarify fat? Why 
does milk boil more quickly than water? Why not put water in 
the pan with roast meat? Why do we beat eggs for cake, but 
not as much for custards? Why is heavy bread "unwholesome? 
Why should starchy food be well cooked ? 

What is food? What is nitrogenous food? What is car- 
bonaceous food? What is the use of water as food? What are 
the minerals we take as food? Explain assimilation. What 
foods produce the most heat? What foods produce the most 
strength? Why does the Laplander eat fat? Why do the 
Chinese eat rice? Why do we not eat fat in summer? What 
is the best food for laboring men; for students; for children? 
What kmds of food contain all the necessary elements? What 
are saccharine foods? What are farinaceous foods? What is 
meat? What are the best kinds? When are they in season? 
What is the difference between red and white-blooded fish? 
What is cream? Why is whey desirable as food in sickness? 

What is gluten; starch? Explain the digestion of starchy 
foods. What chemical changes take place in bread made with 
yeast? Why do we beat eggs? What is cooking soda, and 
what is its use? What is cream of tartar, and why do we use it? 



488 The Boston Cook Book. 

What is the effect of an unusual amount of soda in cooking and 
upon the health? What is the use of gelatine? Why do we use 
condiments and flavorings? How do you make a soup; brown 
soup; white soup? What is the best way to cook a piece of 
tough meat? What is the best way to cook a neck of mutton? 
Why do we eat potatoes with fish? Why do we eat milk, but- 
ter, or eggs with rice? Why do we eat pork with beans? Why 
does meat putrefy and fruit decay? Why does salting preserve 
meat? Why does salting make meat less digestible? Why are 
not habitual eaters of salt meat long-lived? Which diet is best, 
meat or vegetable, or a mixture of both? What are the principal 
beverages? What is the effect of tea on the system? 

What are capers; mushrooms; truffles? What is farina ; 
mazina; semolina? How would you select the best beef; mut- 
ton; poultry; fish; lobsters? Why is a stale egg lighter than 
a fresh one? Why do we not use hard water in cooking? Why 
do we not fry in mutton fat? What is the test for frying for 
different things? Why do we not fry in water? What is the 
effect of baking or, boiling potatoes too long? What is the 
most important process in digestion? What are salads; en- 
trees ? What is caramel ; soy? What part of the plant is an 
apple; a chestnut; chocolate; a turnip; a clove; a blackberry; 
spinach ; rhubarb ; cinnamon ; sugar ; onion ; coffee ; vanilla ? 
What are prunes? 

What is hoe-cake? What is the derivation of the word 
44 bread "? Why do we knead bread? Why do we cook our 
food? What were the earliest methods of cooking? What is 
the meaning of the term " cookery "? What is the difference 
between baking, roasting, broiling, sauteing, frying, braising, 
stewing, simmering, and boiling? What is a pot-roast? Give 
a rule for tomato soup. Give a rule and the exact order for 
making fish balls. Why is starchy food better cooked in boiling 
water? 

Correct this rule for gingerbread, write the rule in the right 
order, and estimate the cost: Four cups and a half of sugar, 
one teaspoonful of molasses, two cups of ginger, one cup of soda, 
one tablespoonful of flour, one iablespoonful of butter, and one tea- 
spoonful of sour milk. 

Why does a bright tin cover keep anything hotter than a dull 
cover? Why does soup keep hot longer than water? Why does 
a kettle of water sometimes boil over? Why does water simmer 
before it boils? Why does cream rise to the top of milk? Why 
will water dissolve sugar and not oil? Why is meat tough if 



r 



The Boston Cook Book. 489 

boiled too rapidly? Why are decayed fruits unwholesome? 
Why do we scald preserves when they turn sour? Why does an 
egg tarnish silver? What is acetic acid; citric acid; malic acid; 
tartaric acid; oxalic acid? What is the difference between a a 
acid and an alkali? Why are potatoes frozen and thawed sweet? 
Why does hard work make us hungry? Why does exercise make 
us warmer? What is the best antidote for poison taken in the 
stomach? How does the white of an egg clear soup and coffee? 
Give a rule for yeast ; plain cake ; Charlotte Russe ; ice-cream ; 
pastry. What is meant by the economy of nature? What are 
some of the simplest rules for table etiquette? Give the order 
of courses at a fashionable dinner-party. Give rules for beef 
tea, gruels, and drinks for invalids. Give some general rules to 
be observed in one's own kitchen and in teaching. 



490 The Boston Cook Book. 



TOPICS AND ILLUSTRATIONS FOR LECTURES 

ON COOKERY. 

[The number of dishes demonstrated at each lecture may be 
varied at the discretion of the lecturer.] 

I. 

AN INTRODUCTORY TALK ON COOKERY, FIRE, STOVES, 
MEASURING, AND MIXING. — Omelet, White Sauce, Cauli- 
flower a la Creme, Fish a la Hollandaise, Cream Toast, Baked 
Quinces. 

MIXING AND BAKING; BATTERS AND DOUGHS. — French 
Pancakes, Cake, Ginger Drops, Caramel, Brown Sauce, Roast 
Duck, Olive Sauce. 

PASTRY AND ICES. — Plain and Puff Paste, Mince and Lemon 
« Pies, Tarts, Cheese Straws, Sherbet. 

LARDING, STUFFING, AND ROASTING. — Roast Chicken, 
Chestnut Stuffing and Sauce, Larded Grouse, Bread Sauce, Cran- 
berries, Bread and Fruit Pudding, Creamy Sauce. 

SIMMERING, BOILING, AND STEAMING.— Soup Stock, Clear 
Soup, Left-over Soup, Boiled Eggs, Macaroni, Rice a la Italienne, 
Whole- Wheat Pudding, Foamy Sauce. 

STEWING, FRICASSEEING, AND BRAISING. — Mutton Stew 
for Two, Chicken Fricassee, Lemon Sauce, Braised Liver, Sauce 
Piquante, Fish Curry, Fruit Charlotte. 

BREAD AND SALADS. — Whole- Wheat Bread, Rolls, Gems, 
Twin Biscuits, Yeast, Chicken Salad, Mayonnaise Dressing, Fish 
Salad, Sauce Tartare. 

FRYING AND SAUT^ING. — Potatoes, Croutons, Fried Muffins, 
Fritters, Fish Balls, Oysters Saute*d, Rice Waffles, Orange Omelet, 
Cold Slaw, Boiled Dressing. 

BROILING. — Venison, Chops, Lobster, Ham, Flounder, Tea, Choco- 
late, Tutti Frutti. 

AN EMERGENCY DINNER. — Bisque of Lobster, or Puree of 
Green Peas, Chicken Croquettes, or Chicken Pilau, Stuffed Pota- 
toes, Spaghetti, Sardines, Apricot Pudding, Fruit-Syrup Sauce, 
Coffee. 



The Boston Cook Book. 491 

DISHES FOR THE SICK AND CON VALESCENT. — Irish 
Moss Lemonade, Plum Porridge, Oatmeal Gruel, Beef Tea, Broiled 
Squab, Kacahout des Arabes, Crisps, Orange Baskets, Baked 
Eggs, Broiled Oysters. 

CAKE X FROSTING, AND DESSERTS. — Sponge Cake, Snow 
Cake, Frosting, Pineapple Cream, Gateau de Princess Louise, 
Royal Diplomatic Pudding, Mock Cantaloupe. 



II. 

ECONOMICAL DISHES. — Beef Stew with Dumplings, Fish Cro- 
quettes, Risotti, Steamed and Baked Apple Dumplings, Lemon 
Sauce, Snow Balls, Roly-Poly Pudding. 

BREAD, ENTRIES, AND ICE-CREAM. — Milk Bread, Rusk, 
Bunns, Raised Doughnuts, Raised Bread Cake, Devilled Lobster, 
Curried Lobster, Neapolitan Ice-Cream. 

BREAKFAST DISHES. — Raised Corn Muffins, Rice Crusts, Bacon, 
Clam Omelet, Creamy Omelet, Eggs a la bonne Femme, Coffee. 

LUNCH DISHES. — Bouillon, Egg Baskets, Chartreuse of Fish, 
Lombardy Macaroni, Cheese Cups, Cabinet Pudding, Wine Sauce. 

SOUPS AND R^CHAUFFfiS. — Mullagatawny Soup, Julienne 
Soup, Crecy Soup, Curry of Mutton, Turkish Croquettes, Meat 
Porcupine. 

FISH AND SAUCES. — Puree of Clams, Baked Fish, Oyster 
Stuffing, Hollandaise Sauce, Kedgeree, Fillets of Fish with Tomato 
Sauee, Maryland Oysters, Crisped Crackers, Delicate Pudding. 

A FAMILY DINNER. — Potato or Celery Soup, Roast Beef, York- 
shire Pu4ding, Franconia Potatoes, Brown Gravy, Creamed and 
Scalloped Onions, Prune Pudding. 

PASTRY. — Plain and Puff Paste, Squash Pie, Eccles Pie, Rissoles, 
Lobster Patties, Creamed Lobster. 

SOUPS AND SALADS. — White Soup, Favorite Soup, Ox-tail 
Soup, Mayonnaise Dressing, Chicken Salad, Vegetable Salad, 
French Dressing, Frozen Pudding. 

TEA DISHES. — Rye Short Cake Toast, Apricot Short Cake, Tea, 
Oysters aux Champignons, Devilled Chicken, Chicken Fillets 
Broiled, Scalloped Oysters, Imperial Cream. 

PICNIC DISHES. — Woodlawn Chicken, Sweetbread Sandwiches, 
Potted Liver, Highland Eggs, Chantilly Cakes, Whitneys. 

DAINTIES. — Foam Omelet, Chicken Terrapin, Lambs' Tongues 
Braised, Sweetbreads, Polonaise Cakes, Charlotte Russe, Plom- 
biere, Newport Whips. 



492 The Boston Cook Book. 



III. 

MIXING AND BAKING. —Bread, Graham Muffins, Breakfast 
Puffs, Waffles, Eggs sur la Flat, Omelet Souffle, Baked Bass, 
Sauce Hollandaise. 

MIXING AND BAKING (continued). — Plain and Puff Paste, 
Mince, Squash, and Chess Pies, Bow Knots, Cupid's Wells, Sponge 
Cake. 

STUFFING, TRUSSING, AND ROASTING. — Roast Chicken with 
Chestnut Stuffing, Roast Birds, Stuffed Potatoes, Stuffed Eggs, 
Roast Oysters. 

BOILING AND STEAMING. — Potato Soup, Celery Soup, Potato 
a la Neige, Boiled Rice, Casserole of Rice and Meat, Tomato 
Sauce, Boiled Eggs, Apricots a la Neige, Soft Custard, Coffee. 

FRYING AND SAUTfclNG. — Saratoga, Parisienne, Macaroni, 
Lyonnaise, and French Potatoes; Fried Oysters, Scallops, and 
Fish ; Breaded Chops, Fish Balls, Potato Croquettes, Croutons. 

SIMMERING AND SEASONING. — Fifteen-Minute Soup, Clear 
Soup, Puree of Salmon, Puree of Peas, Egg Balls, Smothered 
Oysters, Blanquette of Salmon, White Sauce. 

STEWING AND FRICASSEEING. — Veal Birds, Veal Cutlets, 
Rolled Flank of Beef, Chicken Fricassee, Oyster Fricassee, Com- 
pote of Apples. 

LARDING AND BRAISING. — Larded Grouse, Bread Sauce, 
Braised Beef, Horse-radish Sauce, Braised Calfs Heart, Sauce 
Piquante. 

BONING, BROILING, AND TOASTING. — Boned Quail on Toast, 
Chops en Papillote, Steak a la Maitre d' Hotel, Huitres. au Lit, Fil- 
let of Sole, Cream Toast, Broiled Oysters. 

DRESSING AND GARNISHING. — Potato Salad, French Dress- 
ing, Chicken Salad, Mayonnaise Dressing, Casserole of Mock 
Sweetbreads, Chicken Croquettes, Italian Jelly, Orange Baskets. 

POTTING, DEVILLING, AND SCALLOPING. — Potted Ham, 
Scotch Eggs, Devilled Lobster en Coquille, Scalloped Meat or 
Fish, Sandwiches, Scalloped Apple. 

FROSTING, FLAVORING, AND FREEZING. — Pineapple Sher- 
bet, Coffee Ice-Cream, Bavarian Cream, Gold, Silver, and Water- 
melon Cake, Plain and Boiled Frosting. 



The Boston Cook Book. 493 



IV. 

BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES. — Milk Bread, Yeast, 
Raised Waffles, Squash Waffles, Griddle Cakes, Hominy Cakes, 
Broiled Meat Cakes, Hamburg Steak. 

NICE, IF NOT NEW, DISHES. — Baked Beans, Brown Bread, 
Buckwheat Cakes, Baked Indian Pudding, Steamed Apple Dump- 
ling, Doughnuts, Apple Pies, Whips. 

DISHES FOR CHILDREN AND INVALIDS. — Beef Tea, Broiled 
Steak, Broiled Squabs, Raw Beef Sandwiches, Oatmeal Mush 
and Gruel, Baked Apples, Restorative Jelly, Cocoa, Gluten and 
Rye Mush, Gluten Wafers, Apple and Wheat Pudding, Apple 
Tapioca Pudding, Fruit Tapioca. 

A THIRTY-FOUR CENT DINNER. — Potage a la Reine, Crou- 
tons, Fillet of Beef, Snow Potatoes, Spaghetti, Chicken Croquettes, 
Lettuce Salad, Boiled Dressing, Sponge Drops, Orange Sherbet, 
Coffee. 

SOUPS AND ENTRIES. — White Soup, Clear Soup, Clam and 
Fish Chowder, Clam Croquettes, Aspic # Jelly, Boned Chicken, 
Cranberry Sauce, Halibut a la Creme. 

DELICATE DESSERTS. — Charlotte Russe, Cream Cakes, Wine 
Jelly, Gateau de Princess Louise, Norfolk Cream, Chantilly Bas- 
kets, CrSme Diplomate, Bombe* Glace*. 

WHAT TO DO WITH A FORE-QUARTER OF MUTTON. 
— Stuffed Mutton, Mutton Chops, Scotch Broth, Turnips h la 
Creme, Macaroni, Macdonald Cake, Banana Ice-Cream. 

BREAKFAST DISHES. — Lyonnaise and Broiled Tripe, Fricassee 
of Tongues and Sounds, Fried Hasty Pudding, and Oatmeal Mush, 
Fricadilloes, Bacon, Graham Gems, Laplanders. 

LUNCH AND PICNIC DISHES. —Bouillon, Parker House Rolls, 
Lobster en Brochette, Oyster Plant Croquettes, Salad Sandwiches, 
Gingerbread, Dutch Cheese, Pannikins, Canapees, Curried Eggs, 
Fried Oysters, Cold Slaw. 

TEA DISHES. — White Mountain and Swedish Rolls, Zephyr Cakes, 
Brewis, Dutch Apple Cake, Orange Short Cake, Crackers a la 
Cre*me, Welsh and Yorkshire Rarebits, Toast, Ham. 

ENTRIES. — Puff Paste, Oysters a la Creme, Patties, Vol-au-vent, 
Lobster Croquettes, and Cutlets, Turkish Pilaf, Turkish Cro- 
quettes. 

DAINTY DISHES.— Potato Souffle, Eggs a la Dauphine, Sweet- 
breads, Orange Omelet, Orange Cake, Ornamental Frosting, Cafe' 
Parfait, Tropical Snow. 



494 T^ Boston Cook Book. 



BOOKS OF REFERENCE. 

Among the many valuable authorities on subjects connected 
with food, the following have been consulted in preparing this 
work. The Cook Books are named, not according to their 
merit, but in the order in which the author has had personal 
knowledge of them : — 

Youmans's Handbook of Household Science. 

Johnston's Chemistry of Common Life. 

Wells's Science of Common Things. 

Lewes 's Physiology of Common Life. 

Gray's How Plants Grow. 

Dal ton's Physiology. 

Webster's Dictionary. 

Food. By A. H. Church. 

Food for the Invalid. 

Family Receipt Books without number; and Cook Books by 

Mrs. Henderson, Marion Harland, Mrs. Cornelius, Mrs. 

Beecher, Warne, Francatelli, Soyer, Mrs. Whitney, Miss 

Parloa, Mrs. Campbell, Miss Corson, Mrs. Bee ton, and Mrs. 

Ewing. 



COURSE OF INSTRUCTION 



AT THE 



BOSTON COOKING SCHOOL, 



174. TREMONT STREET. 



FIRST COURSE. — Plain Cooking. 

Twelve Lessons for $12.00, including materials. 



First Lesson. 

PAGE 

The Making and Care of a Fire 5 

Raw Potato Yeast 62 

Mixing Water Bread .... 63 

Tomato Soup (without Stock) . 147 

Croutons 136 

Boiled Potatoes ...... 293 

Mutton Chops 236 

German Toast 76 

Coffee 115 

Setting the Table and Serving . 440 

Second Lesson. 

Baking Bread 58 

Potato Soup 146 

Broiled Fish 161 

Fried or Creamed Potatoes . . 294 

Boiled Eggs 199 

Hash 273 

Flour and Indian Gruel . . 411, 412 

Blanc-Mange . • 341 

Scalloped Eggs 207 

Third Lesson. 
Mixed Soup Stock .... 124-132 
Mixing Milk Bread • • . • 64 

Hop Yeast 63 

Beef Tea .... 423 



PAGE 

Griddle-Cakes 99 

Baked Fish 165 

Drawn Butter or Egg Sauce . 187 

Mashed Potatoes 294 

Steamed Apple Pudding . . • 332 

Molasses Sauce 339 

Fourth Lesson. 

Beef Soup with Vegetables . . 132 

To Clarify Fat 18 

To Try out Lard 249 

Baking Milk Bread .... 58 

Baked Potatoes 295 

Broiled Steak 223 

Broiled Meat Cakes .... 223 
Custards: Baked, Boiled, or 

Steamed 342-344 

Cookies or Ginger Snaps . 385-388 

Fifth Lesson. 

Beef Stew with Dumplings . • 225 

Graham Bread 66 

Scalloped Meat or Fish . 274, 169 

Brown Gravy 191 

Poached Eggs on Toast . • . 199 

ShortCakes 84 

Gingerbread 388 

Tea Ill 



496 



The Boston Cook Book. 



Sixth Lesson. 

PAGE 

Baking Graham Bread ... 66 

Corn Cakes 91 

Fish Balls or Fish Hash ... 171 

Fried Fish 165 

Fried Potatoes 296 

Omelet 200 

Chocolate 118 

Dutch Apple Cake 86 

Lemon Sauce ...... 328 

Oatmeal Gruel 413 

Seventh Lesson. 

Fish Chowder 155 

Tripe 230 

Liver ......... 231 

Brown Bread 68 

Graham Gems ..... 84, 95 

Bread Pudding 337 

Hard Sauce 328 

Mixing Rolls 65 

Eighth Lesson. 

Pea Soup 149 

Baked Beans 249 

Veal Cutlets 240 

Brewis or Doughnuts . . . 77, 104 

Baking Rolls 70 

Apple Pie 323, 325 

Apple and Toast Water . . . 419 

Steamed Squash 304 

Ninth Lesson. 

Scotch Broth 140 

Breakfast Bacon 246 

Corn Fritters 299 

Scalloped Tomato 300 



PAGE 

Rolls, or Milk Toast .... 78 

Raw Beef Sandwiches . . . 424 

Cake 376 

Indian Pudding 338 

Tenth Lesson. 

Roast Beef 220 

Potato Croquettes 280 

Macaroni 308 

Onions, Parsnip, or Cabbage 301, 305 

Stewed Apple Sauce . • . . 394 

Oatmeal 109 

Baked Apples 394 

Rve Muffins 90 



Eleventh Lesson. 

Oyster Soup or Stew 
Broiled Oysters . . 
Beef Rolls . . . 
Cold Slaw . . . 
Hoe Cake .... 
Apple Tapioca Pudding 
Lemon or Wine Jellv . 
Bread 



153 
179 
270 
311 

93 
333 
349 

65 



Twelfth Lesson. 

Roast or Fricassee Chicken 257, 258 

Boiled Rice 306 

Squash or Turnip . . . 304, 306 

Hominy Cakes 92 

Potato Puff 294 

Plain Lobster 182 

French Dressing 310 

Custard Souffle^ Creamy Sauce, 

338,329 
Steamed Suet Pudding, or Snow 
Pudding 339,347 



SECOND COURSE. — Richer Cooking. 



Twelve Lessons for 912.00, including materials. 



First Lesson. 

Coffee 115 

Oatmeal, Hominy, or Crushed 

Wheat with Baked Apples . 109 

Boiled Potatoes 293 



Lyonnaise Potatoes .... 294 
Broiled Beefsteak, with Mattre 

d' Hotel Butter .... 223, 195 
Egg Vermicelli, or Curried 

Eggs 206,905 



The Boston Cook Book. 



497 



PAGE 

Hominy Drop Cakes, or Rice 
Griddle-Cakes, or Soda Bis- 
cuit 94, 100, 83 

Frizzled Beef, or Tongues and 
Sounds 272, 173 

Second Lesson. 

Mutton Cutlets Breaded, with 

Tomato Sauce .... 236, 194 

Shoo Fly Potatoes 296 

Parisienne Potatoes .... 296 

Omelet. . . . 201 

Fried Rye Muffins 104 

Waffles 98 

Lemon Syrup 98 

Chocolate 118 

Third Lesson. 

Yeast 63 

Bread 63 

Parker House Rolls .... 70 

Scalloped Oysters . . . . . 177 

Smothered Oysters .... 176 

Oysters Saute'd 179 

Baked Eggs 203 

Eggs in Baskets 208 

Breakfast Bacon 246 

Tea 112 

Fourth Lesson, 

Stock for Clear Soup .... 130 
Fried or Broiled Fish . . . 165, 161 

Tartar Sauce 194 

Potato Croquettes 280 

Fish Balls 171 

Pease Cakes . . 101 

Macaroni or Spaghetti . . . 308 
Fried Oysters or Scallops . 178, 181 

Apple Me*ringue 333 

Sponge Cake 373 

Fifth Lesson. 

Clear Soup 129 

Egg Balls and Forcemeat Balls 136 

Caramel 134 

Potatoes a la Maitre d'Hotel . 295 
Baked Fish, with Sauce Hol- 
landaise ' 164, 194 



PAGE 

Sticks and Rolls 71 

Caramel Custard 344 

Caramel Sauce 330 

Lettuce Salad 312 

Boiled Dressing 310 

Gluten Wafers 97 

Sixth Lesson, 

Braised Beef, or Beef a la 

Mode 224, 225 

Potato Balls 294 

Onions, or Cabbage Baked . 301, 302 

Mock Bisque Soup 147 

Raised Muffins 87 

Custard Souffle* 337 

Creamy Sauce 329 

Rice Souffle*, or Bird's-Nest 
• Pudding, or Orange Short 
Cake 336, 333, 86 

Seventh Lesson. 

Pure*eofFish ...... 152 

Cusk a la Creme 168 

White Sauce 190 

Meat Rechauffe*, or Curried 

Lobster 273, 183 

Potato Salad 313 

Apple or Lemon Pie .... 325 
Cream Cakes, or Friars* Omelet 389, 

334 
Flannel Cakes, or White Moun- 
tain Rolls 99, 72 

Gluten Mush 415 

Eighth Lesson, 

Black Bean Soup 148 

Croutons 136 

Roast Beef 220 

Franconia Potatoes .... 295 

Yorkshire Pudding .... 221 

Parsnip Fritters 305 

Spinach 296 

Danish Pudding, or Gelatine 

Pudding 342, 346 

Rice Croquettes 281 

Beef Tea 423 

Irish Moss Lemonade .... 420 



32 



H 



498 



The Boston Cook Book. 



Ninth Lesson, 

PAGE 

Mutton Broth 141 

Stuffed Leg of Mutton ... 233 
Currant Jelly Sauce .... 191 

Turkish Pilaf 283 

Turnips in White Sauce, or 

Cauliflower 305, 301 

Tea Rolls 89 

Tapioca Cream, or Scalloped 

Apple 345,331 

Crackers a la CrSrae .... 283 

Panada 414 

Cream Pies .• 375 

Tenth Lesson, 

Cream of Celery Soup . . . 147 
Boast Chicken, or Chicken 
Curry or Fricassee . . 257, 258 

Boiled Rice 306 

Cranberry Sauce 395 

Potatoes 293 

Spider Corn Cake, or Squash 

Waffles 92, 102 

Gold and Silver Cake . ... 379 

Plain Frosting 384 

Snow Pudding, or Apple Snow- 
balls 347,335 



Eleventh Lesson. 

PAGI 

White Soup 144 

Chicken Croquettes .... 279 
Potted Pigeons, or Broiled 

Squabs 262,260 

Apple Fritters 107 

Graham Gems 95 

Lady Fingers 374 

Sponge Drops 374 

Charlotte Russe 354 

Orange or Wine Jelly . . . 350 

Chicken Custard 426 

Plum Porridge ...... 411 

Twelfth Lesson, 

Puff Paste 816 

Squash or Custard Pie . . . 325 

Oyster Patties 319 

Raspberry Tarts 319 

Creamed Oysters 177 

Creamed Lobster ..... 183 

Lobster Salad 315 

Mayonnaise Dressing .... 311 

Tea Cakes, or Cream Muffins . 89 
Ice-Cream or Sherbet . . . 362, 368 



THIRD COURSE. — Fancy Cooking. 



Twelve Lessons for 915.00 ; materials extra, 93.00 to $8.00. 



First Lesson. 

Bouillon 131 

Teast 63 

Bread 65 

Potato Souffle* 295 

Twin Biscuit, or Breakfast 

Puffs 83, 94 

Coffee 115 

Cream Toast 79 

Broiled Fillets of Beef, or 
Chops en Papillote, or Broiled 

Chicken, or Devilled Chicken 223, 

236,260 



Second Lesson, 

Amber Soup or Consomme* . . 131 

Sticks and Rolls 72 

Corn Meal Puffs ..... 93 
Smelts k la Tartar, or Fillets of 

Bass or Flounders . . .165, 161 
Fried Oysters or Scallops . 178, 181 
Potatoes, Saratoga and Parisi- 

enne 296 

Chocolate 118 

Rice Croquettes, or Bavarian 

Cream 281,356 

Silver or Cornstarch Cake . . 380 
Plain Frosting ....*.. 384 



The Boston Cook Book. 



499 



Third Lesson. 

PAGE 

White Soup from Veal ... 143 

Veal Birds 275 

Casserole of Rice or Potato . . 274 
Veal Croquettes, or Oysters 

and Mushrooms in Crust 279, 178 

Spinach 296 

Hominy or Turkish Croquettes 281 
Wonders, or Henriettes . . . 106 

Pigs in Blankets 178 

CrSme Diplomate 358 

Orange Omelet, or Sweet 

Omelet, or Omelet Souffle* 202, 203 

Fourth Lesson. 

Potage a la Reine 144 

Chicken Croquettes, or Blan- 
quette of Chicken, or Chicken 

Souffle* 279, 268, 276 

Scotch Eggs, or Stuffed Eggs 207, 206 
Breakfast Rolls or Waffles . . 98 
Cauliflower a la Creme . . . 301 
Potted Meat, or Salmis of Game 277, 

270 
Rice and Apricot Pudding . . 336 
Sardine Sandwiches .... 273 
Apple #r Orange Charlotte . . 348 

Fifth Lesson. 

Potato Soup 146 

Rllet of Beef with Mushrooms, 

or Fricandeau of Veal, or 

Roast Duck with Olives 222, 240, 

261 

Potatoes 296 

Bread 66 

Vegetables 300-306 

Sponge Cake 373 

Snow Pudding, or Baked Plum 

Pudding 347,338 

Macedoine of Fruits, or Orange 

Baskets 350,351 

Sixth Lesson. 

Puff Paste 316 

Patties and Rissoles . . . 319, 321 

Chess Pie .324 

Mince Pie 326 



PAGE 

322 

320 

321 

321 

322\ 

321 



Puff Paste Plaits .... 

Cupid's Wells 

Bow-Knots 

Vol-au-vent 

Cheese Straws ..... 
Cakes a la Polonaise . . . 
Canellons. See Explanation of 

Terms used in Cookery. 
Fanchonnettes 327 

Seventh Lesson. 

Oysters on Ice 176 

Larded Grouse, Bread Sauce 262, 193 
Egg Salad, or Eggs in Cases . 209 
Oyster Salad, or en Coquille 177, 314 
Fried Celery, Parsnip, or Salsify 107 

Cheese Souffle" 282 

Creme Frete, or Cinci . . 282, 106 

£clairs 389 

Charlotte Russe, or Gateau St. 

Honore* 354, 359 

Egg Souffle" in Cases .... 337 

Eighth Lesson. 

Pure*e of Salmon 152 

Salmon Cutlets, or Broiled 
Birds, or Birds in Potato 

Cases 280, 263 

Braised Pigeons with Spinaeh, 

or Tongue in Jelly . . . 262, 230 
Royal Diplomatic Pudding . . 358 

Parisienne Souffle* 344 

Kisses, Meringues,or Macaroons 389, 

390 
Apple Snow, or Floating Island 345, 

343 

Ninth Lesson. 

Bisque of Lobster 152 

Chicken in Aspic Jelly . . . 267 
Scalloped Lobster en Coquille . 183 

Cream Muffins 89 

Welsh Rarebit, or Sardine Cana- 

pees 282, 283 

Cabinet Pudding, or Eve's Pud- 
ding, or Orange Souffle* . 339, 333, 

344 
Chocolate Caramels, or Cocoa- 
nut Cakes 390 



5po 



The Boston Cook Book. 



Tenth Lesson, 

PAGE 

Stock for Mock Turtle Soup . 137 
Braised Calf's Heart or Liver . 231 

French Potatoes 295 

Asparagus, or Spinach . . 297, 296 

Quails on Toast 263 

Chartreuse of Chicken . . . 269 

Cake 376-382 

Boiled Icing 384 

Sherbet 368 

Quaking Custard, or Tropical 
Snow 346, 393 

Eleventh Lesson. 

Devilled Lobster or Crab . 183, 184 
Shrimps en Coquille, or Mush- 
rooms 184, 303 

Lobster Cutlets, or Lobster Cro- 
quettes, or Crimped Cod . 280, 170 



PAGE 

Harlequin Cake 381 

Orange Cake 377 

Ornamental Frosting .... 384 
Dominoes, or Madelines ... 379 
Ice-Cream, or Bombe Glace* . 363, 367 

Twelfth Lesson. 

Sweetbreads with Peas . . . 243 

Sweetbreads in Cases .... 243 

Sweetbread Croquettes . . . 279 

Salads 310-315 

Mayonnaise Dressing .... 311 

Sweetbreads with Mushrooms . 244 

Strawberry Charlotte .... 355 

Gateau de Princess Louise . . 360 

Frozen Pudding, or Tutti Frutti, 366, 

365 
Cafe* Parfait, or Frozen Apri- 
cots 365, 367 



NURSES' COURSE. 

Twelve Lessons for $5.00. 
First Lesson. 



BEEF ESSENCE. 

Stewed 423 

Bottled 423 

Broiled . . 423 

Raw Beef Sandwich .... 424 

BEEF TEA. 

Stewed 423 

Bottled 423 

Broiled 423 

Broiled Steak 426 

MUSHES. 

Graham 415 

Indian 415 

Gluten 415 

Rye 415 

Oatmeal 414 

Hominy 109 

Cracked Wheat .' 109 

Granulated Wheat 109 

Prepared Flour 428 

Racahout des Arabes .... 427 



GRUELS. 

Flour 411 

Arrowroot 411 

Cornstarch 411 

Rice Flour ..*..... 411 

Indian Corn 412 

Barley 412 

Oatmeal * . . 413 

Cracker ........ 413 

Kgg ......... 413 

Plum Porridge 411 

JELLIES. 

Sago 416 

Tapioca 416 

Rice Flour 415 

Calves' Feet 417 

Beef 418 

Chicken 418 

Orange 350 

Wine 350 

Lemon 349 

Restorative 416 



The Boston Cook Book. 



Soi 



Second Lesson, 



DRINKS. 



Tea 

Coffee 

Chocolate t . • . • 

Cocoa 

Shells 

Crust Coffee .... 
Rice Coffee «... 
Egg Coffee .... 

Egg Tea 

Apple Tea . • . . 

Eggnog 

Toast Water .... 

Corn Tea 

Wine Whey . . . • 
Slippery Elm . . • 
Baked Lemon • . . 
Lemonade .... 
Flaxseed Lemonade . 
Irish Moss Lemonade . 
Jelly and Ice • • • 



PAGE 
111 

115 
118 
117 
117 
419 
419 
425 
425 
419 
424 
419 
419 
420 
419 
420 
420 
420 
420 
420 



TOAST. 

PAGE 

Dry Toast ....... 78 

Water 78 

Milk 78 

Cream 79 

Egg 76 

Cracker 283 

Brewis • . 77 

OYSTERS. 

Broiled 179 

Smothered 176 

Steamed 175 

Creamed • 177 

Toast 177 

Roasted • 175 

Clam Broth 154 



Third Lesson. 



EGOS. 

Boiled 199 

Poached 199 

Scrambled 200 

Baked 203 

Omelet 201 

Vermicelli 206 

POTATOES. 

Boiled 292 

Mashed . .' 294 

Riced 293 

Baked 295 

Creamed 294 

Souffle* 295 



Parisienne 296 

Browned 294 

CUSTARDS. 

Boiled 342 

Steamed 344 

Cup 344 

Baked 342 

Chicken 426 

Snow Pudding 347 

Apple Charlotte 348 

Orange Sponge ...... 348 

Gelatine Pudding 346 

Apple Snow 345 



Fourth Lesson, 



Mutton Broth, with Rice or Bar- 
ley 141 

Mutton Chops 236 

Boiled Rice, Spinach or Aspara- 
gus 306, 296, 297 

Vegetables, in White Sauce . 305 



Bread ......... 65 

Gluten Wafers 97 

Gingerbread 388 

Yeast 62 

Tapioca Cream » 345 

Fruit Tapioca 342 



502 



The Boston Cook Book. 



PAGE 

Bird's-Nest Pudding .... 333 

Baked Apples 394 

Apple Sandwich 331 



PAGE 



Apple Snowballs 335 

Apple Meringue 333 

Apple and Wheat Pudding . • 331 



Fifth Lesson. 



Boned Birds 27 

Broiled Birds or Chops . . . 426 

Blanc-Mange 341 

Laban . . .' 427 

Ash Cake 427 

Panada 426 

Potato or Vegetable Soups . 146-150 
Bread and Rolls .... 65-70 
Stewed Prunes 395 



Prune Pudding 357 

Crackers and Orange Marma- 
lade 427 

Charlotte Russe 354 

Lemon Sherbet ...... 368 

Orange Sherbet 368 

Frozen Fruits 367 

Orange Basket 351 



Roast Beef, or Roast Mutton, or 
Roast Chicken . . 220, 233, 257 

Chicken Fricassee 258 

Sweetbreads, or Venison Steak, 
or Salmon Steak . . 243, 263, 161 

Macaroni .* . 308 



Sixth Lesson. 

Sponge Cake ...... 374 

Muffins 88 

Graham Gems ...... 95 

Cream Cakes • 389 

Italian Cream, or Bavarian 
Cream 346,356 



Broiled Breast of Chicken . • 260 Ice-Cream 



363 



This Course of Instruction was arranged in 1882. Since 
then some changes have been made in the Nurses' Course, a 
Dinner Course has been added, and the prices have been in- 
creased. 



EXPLANATION OF TERMS USED IN 

COOKERY. 



Agneau. I*mb. 

J la, at*, aux. With ; as, huitres aux 
champignons, oysters with mush- 
rooms. Dressed in a certain style ; as, 
Smelts a la Tartare, with Tartare 
sauce. 

A VAurore. A white sauce colored pink 
with the spawn of lobster. 

A la bonne Femme. Of the good house- 
wife. 

A VEstragon. With tarragon. 

A la Neige. In snow. 

A la Poulette. Meat or fish warmed in 
a white sauce with yolks of eggs. 

A la Reine. Of the queen. 

Allemande. A thick white sauce made 
with cream and the yolks of eggs, and 
seasoned with nutmeg and lemon juice. 

•Almond. A nut grown in Southern Eu- 
rope. It consists of a stone fruit, the 
fleshy pericarp of which dries in ripen- 
ing, and forms a hard tough covering to 
the stone. Bitter almonds are obtained 
from Morocco. They contain prussnc 
acid, and are poisonous. The sweet 
almonds include the Jordan and Valen- 
cia varieties. The Jordan almonds, 
imported from Malaga, are loog and 
narrow, and are considered the best. 
Angelica. A plant, the stems of which 
are preserved in syrup, and used for 
decorating pastry, etc. 

Anguilles. Eels. 

Apricot, A stone fruit cultivated in 
temperate and tropical climates. The 
skin has a highly perfumed flavor. 

Asperges. Asparagus. 

Aspic Jelly. A transparent Jelly made 

with stock, and used for garnishing. 
Au Beurre roux. With browned butter. 

Au vert Pie. With sweet herbs. 

Aux Cressons. With watercresses. 
Aux Bognont, With kidneys. 



Bain Marie. A shallow open vessel 
filled with hot water, in which smaller 
dishes containing soups and sauces may 
be placed and kept warm without fur 
ther cooking until serving-time. 

Barm. The scum from fermented malt 
liquors, used as yeast 

Baron of Beef . The two sirloins not cut 
down the back. Formerly a favorite 
dish in England- 

Baron of Lamb. The entire loin, not 
divided at the backbone, with the 
upper part of both legs. 

Basil. An herb having a perfume like 
that of cloves, used as seasoning. 

Bavaroise. Bavarian. 

Bay Leaves. The leaves of the cherry- 
laurel tree. 

BScasses. Woodcock. 

BSckameL A white sauce made with 
stock and cream, named from a cele- 
brated cook. 

Beignet. A fritter. 

Beurre noir. Browned butter. 

Bisque. A shell-fish soup. 

Blanch. To parboil, to scald vegetables, 
nuts, etc., in order to remove their 
hulls or skins. 

Blanquette. Any white meat warmed 
in a white sauce thickened with eggs. 

Bouchkes. Patties. 

Bozuf. Beef. 

Bouillabasse. Several kinds of fish 
boiled quickly, and highly seasoned 
with onion, orange peel, saffron, oil, 
etc. 

Bouille. Broth made from beef. 

Bouilli. Beef stewed, generally in one 
large piece, and served with a sauce. 

Bouquet, or Fagot, of Serbs. A sprig 
of each of the herbs used in seasoning, 
rolled up in a spray of parsley and tied 
securely. 



1 



S04 



The Boston Cook Book. 



Braising. Stewing in a covered pan, 
with heat applied both below and above. 

Brawm. Head eheeae. 

Bretonne. A puree of red onions. 

Brioche Paste. Cakes made with yeast. 

BrochS. A spit. 

Brochette. A skewer. 

Brunoise. A brown soup or sauce. 

Bubble and Squeak. A dish of vegetable 
hash and meat. 

Buttock. A round of beet 



Cafl au Lait. Coffee with hot milk. 

Cqfi noir. Black coffee. 

Caille. Quail. 

Calipash. The glutinous meat of the 
upper shell of the turtle. 

Calipee. The glutinous meat of the 
under shell of the turtle. 

Canard. Duck. 

Canellons. Puff paste baked round a 
form of cardboard, shaped like a cane. 

Cannelon of Meat. Minced and highly 
seasoned meat, baked in the form of a 
large roll. 

Capers. Unopened buds of a low trail- 
ing shrub grown in Southern Europe. 
Pickled and used in sauces. 

Capon. A chicken castrated for the pur- 
pose of improving the quality of the 
flesh. 

Caramel. A syrup of burnt sugar, named 
after Count Caramel, who discovered 
what is called the seventh degree of 
cooking sugar. 

Cardoon. A vegetable resembling the 
artichoke. 

Casserole. A mould formed of rice or 
potato, and filled with a rechauffe. 

Champignons. Mushrooms. 

Charlotte. A preparation of cream or 
frult 4 formed in a mould, lined with 
cake or fruit. 

Chartreuse. A preparation of game, 
fillets, etc., moulded in jelly and sur- 
rounded by vegetables. Invented by 
the' monks of the monastery of Char- 
treuse as a convenient way of disguising 
meat. 
Chervil. The leaf of a European plant 

used as a salad. 
Chetney. A hot acid sauce made from 
apples, tomatoes, raisins, cayenne, gin- 
ger, garlic, shalots, salt, sugar, lemons, 
and vinegar. 
Chillies. Red peppers. 



Chine. A piece of the backbone of an 
animal, with the adjoining parts cut 

for cooking. Usually applied to pork. 
Chou-fieur. Cauliflower. 
Citric Acid. The acid of the citron 

family, lemons, oranges, etc. 
Cxtron. The rind of a fruit of the lemon 

species preserved in sugar. 
Cochineal. Coloring matter made from 

the dried bodies of insects found in 

Mexico, where they feed on a species of 

the cactus. * 

Cock-a-leekie. A soup used in Wales, ' 

made from fowls and leeks. 
To Collar. To cure meat in a spiced 

brine. 
Collops. Meat cut in small pieces. 
Compote. Fruit stewed in syrup. 
Confitures. Preserves. 
Consommi. Very rich stock. 
Coriander. A plant cultivated for its 

tender leaves, which are used in soups 

and salads and in making curry powder. 
Cornichons. Pickles. 
Cdtelettes.. Cutlets. 
Coulis. A rich brown gravy. 
Crhne BruUe. Browned sugar or cars*. 

mel with cream. 
Oriole, A la. With tomatoes. 
Cricettes Shrimp. 
Crimp. To cause to contract, or render 

more crisp, as the flesh of a fish by gash- 
ing it, while living, with a knife. 
Croquettes. A preparation of mince with 

a bread-crumbed coating, and cooked till • 

crisp. 
Croustade A kind of patty of bread or 

prepared rice. 
Crodton. A sippet of filed or toasted 

bread. 
Crumpet. Raised muffins baked on a 

griddle. 
Cuen de Boeuf. Ox-tails. 
Currants. Dried currants are small black 

grapes, named from Corinth, where they 

are grown. 
Curries. Stews of meat or fish, seasoned 

with curry powder and served with 

rice. 
Curry Powder. A mixture of turmeric, 

coriander seed, pepper, ginger, card** 

mons, cumin seed, caraway, and cay* 

enne. 



De, d* Of; as, filet de boevf, fillet of 
beef. 



The Boston Cook Book. 



S°S 



DSsosser. To bone. 
Dinde. Turkey. 



En Coquille. Served in shells. 

En Papillote. In papers. 

Endive. A plant of the Composite family, 

used as a salad. 
Entries. Small made dishes served with 

the first course at an elaborate dinner. 
Entremets. Second-course side dishes, 

including vegetables, eggs, and sweets, 
Espagnole. A rich brown sauce, the 

foundation of most brown sauces. 
J&pinards. Spinach. 
Eperlans. Smelts. 



Faisan. Pheasant. 

Fanchonnettes and Florentines. Small 

pastries covered with a meringue. 
Farcie. A kind of force-meat or stuffing. 
Fausse Tortue. Mock Turtle. 
Feuilletage. Puff paste. 
Fillets. Pieces of meat or fish, generally 

rolled and tied. 
Financiere. A rich brown sauce, with 

wine and mushroom catchup. 
Finnan Haddock. Haddock smoked 

and dried, named from Findhorn in 

Scotland, where they are obtained in 

perfection. 
Flaus, Darioles, and Mirlitons. French 

cheese cakes 
Foie. Liver. 

Fondue. A preparation of melted cheese . 
Fowl a la Marengo. A fowl browned in 

oil, and stewed in rich stock, seasoned 

with wine. Eaten and approved by 

Napoleon after the battle of Marengo. 
Fraise. Strawberry. 
Fricandeau. Meat larded and browned, 

and stewed in stock, or baked and 

covered with glaze. 
Fricassee. A stew in which the meat is 

first fried slightly. 
Fromage. Cheese. 



Odteau. A cake. 

Gaufres. Waffles. 

GelSe. Jelly. 

Qenevese Sauce. A white sauce made 
with white stock, highly seasoned with 
herbs, spices, mushrooms, lemon, and 
wine, and served with salmon or trout. 

Glaci. Covered with icing. 



Glaze. Stock boiled down to a thin 

paste. 
Oratins, Dishes of game, fish, or vege* 

tables, served in a rich sauce. 
Grilled. Broiled. 
GHroseUles. Currants. 



Haggis. A preparation of the heart, 

tongue, and liver of sheep. 
Haricot. A small bean; a bit. A stew 

in which the meat and vegetables are 

finely divided. 
Hbmard. Lobster. 
Hors-d*o2uvres. Relishes. 
Huitres. Oysters. 



Jambon. Ham. 

Jardiniere. A mixed preparation of 
vegetables stewed in their own sauce ; a 
garnish of various vegetables. 



Kippered. Dried or smoked. 
Kromesktes. Minces of meat or fish 
dipped in fritter batter, and fried crisp 



Laitue. Lettuce. 

Lardoon. The piece of salt pork or 

bacon used in larding. 
Lentils. A variety of the bean tribe used 

in soups, etc. 
Lit. A layer. Articles in thin slices 

placed in layers, with seasoning or 

sauce between. 



Macedoine. A mixture of fruit moulded 
in jelly. 

Madeline. A kind of pound cake. 

Maigre. Dishes for fast days, made with- 
out flesh. 

Mattre (FHAtel. Master of the hotel. 

Malic Acid. The acid of apples, partially 
changed to sugar as apples ripen and 
into a bitter principle as they decay. 

Manna Kroup. A flour made from 
wheat and rice, sometimes mixed with 
saffron and yolk of egg. 

Maraschino. A kind of brandy. 

Marinade. A pickle for boiling meat or 
fish in. 

Marinate. To pickle or to sprinkle with 
a French dressing. 

Matelote. A rich stew, made of fish, and 
flavored with wine. 



506 



The Boston Cook Book. 



Mayonnaise. Cold sauce, or salad dress- 

log. 
Menu. A bill of fere. 
Meringue. A kind of icing made of 

white of egg and sugar well beaten. 
Mi-Careme. Dishes used in mid-Lent. 
Mignonnette Pepper. Peppercorn* 

ground coarsely. 
Miroton. Pieces of meat cut larger than 

collops, for a stew or ragout. 
Morel. A species of mushroom. 
Morue. Codfish. 
Mouton. Mutton. 

Nectarine. A variety of the peach, hay- 
ing a smooth skin. 

Nougat. A mixture of almonds and 
sugar. 

Nouilles. A kind of vermicelli. 

Noyau. A cordial. 

(Eufs. Eggs. 
Ognon. Onions. 

Oxalic Acid. The acid in sorrel and 
rhubarb. 

Panaie. Parsnips. 

Paner. To cover with bread crumbs. 

Panure. Any entree that is bread- 
crumbed. 

PdtS aux Choux. Cream-cake paste, so 
called because when baked it resembles 
ahead of cabbage. 

Pdti de Foie gras. A pie of fat liven. 

Perdreux. Partridge. 

Persillade of Fish. With parsley. 

Pettis Panis. Little bread. 

Petits Pois. Pease. 

Pigeonnaux. Squab. 

Pimento. Allspice or Jamaica pepper. 

Pistachio. A pale greenish nut re- 
sembling the almond. 

Poel4e. Stock used instead of water for 
boiling poultry, sweetbreads, etc. 

Poisson. Fish. 

Pommies. Apples. 

Pommes de Terre. Potatoes. 

Potrau-feu. The stock pot. 

Potage. A soup. 

Poulet. A chicken. 

Purie. A thick soup rubbed through a 
sieve. 



Quenelle. 
entrees. 



A delicate force-meat used in 



Ragout. A highly seasoned stew flavored 
with wine. 

Ramakins. A preparation of cheese and 
puff paste or toast, baked or browned. 

Ratifias. Almond cakes, A kind of 
liquor flavored with nuts. 

Rtchauffk. Anything warmed over. 

Removes, or Relives. The roasts or prin- 
cipal dishes. 

Ris de Veau. Sweetbread. 

Rissoles. Small shapes of puff paste 
filled with some mixture, and fried or 
baked. Or balls of minced meat, egged 
and crumbed, and fried till crisp. 

Rizotta. Rice. 

Rognons. Kidneys. 

Roux. Thickening made with butter and 
flour. 



Salmi. A stew or hash of game. 
Savoy Cakes, or Naples Biscuits. Lady 

Fingers. 
Sauce Piquante. An acid sauce. 
SauU. Fried in very little fat. 
Scones. Scotch cakes of meal or flour. 
Semona, or Semolina. Same as Manna 

Kroup. 
Shalot. A variety of onion. 
Soubi8e Sauce. A puree of white onions 

named after Prince Soubise. 
SoufflS. A very light pudding or omelet 

The name means " puffed up." 
Soy. A Japanese sauce prepared from 

the seeds of Dolichos Soja. It has an 

agreeable flavor and a clear brown color. 

Used to color soups and sauces. 
Stock. The essence extracted from meat. 
Sultanas. White or yellow 

grapes, grown in Corinth. 



Tamis. A sieve or fine strainer cloth. 
Tarragon. An herb, the leaves of which 

are used as seasoning and in flavoring 

vinegar. 
Tendrons de Veau. The gristles from 

the breast of veal stewed in stock, and 

served as an entree. 
Toad in the Hole. A dish of cold meat 

baked in a batter of milk, eggs, and 

flour. 
Tourte. A tart. 
Truffles. A species of fungi growing in 

clusters some inches below the soil, and 

having an agreeable perfume, which is 

easily scented by pigs, who are food of 



The Boston Cook Book. 



507 



them, and by dogs trained to find them. 
They are found abundantly in France, 
but are not subject to cultivation Used 
in seasoning and garniture. 
Truite. Trout 



Vanilla. The fruit of a Mexican plant. 
Pure vanilla beans are from seven to 
nine inches long, soft, oily, flexible, can 
easily be wound over the finger, and 
when cut have a frosted appearance. 



The seeds are so fine as to be hardly dis- 
cernible. An ounce contains seven or 
eight beans, and costs $150. 

Veau. Veal. 

VeloutS. A smooth white sauce. 

Vin (Au). With wine. 

Vinaigrette Sauce. With acid wine o» 
vinegar. 

VoUau-vent. A crust of very light puff 
paste, filled with oysters or chickens, 
warmed in a cream sauce, or filled with 
fruit. 



ADDEN-DA. 



Barbecue. To roast any animal whole, 
usually in the open air. 

Gumbo. A dish of food made of young 
capsules of okra, with salt and pepper, 
stewed and served with melted butter. 

Gumbo Filet Povjder. Made from the 
tender young leaves of the sassafras, 
picked in the spring, and dried care- 
fully in the shade like any herb. 
Powdered fine and bottled tight. Used 
In New Organs. 



Kohl Cannon. Boiled potatoes and cab- 
bage, minced together, and seasoned 
with butter, pepper, and salt. 

Okra The green mucilaginous pods of 
an annual plant, used in the South for 
soups and pickles. 

PotrPourri. A mixture of minced cooked 
meat and vegetables. A mixture of 
fruits and sugar. 



LIST OF UTENSILS NEEDED IN A 
COOKING-SCHOOL. 



EARTHEN, CHINA, AND GLASS WARE. 



2 2-quart Pitchers. 


2 small oval Platters. 


2 quart Pitchers. 


2 medium oval Platters. 


2 pint Pitchers. 


2 large oval Platters. 


2 large oval Baking -Dishes. 


4 shallow Pie-Plates. 


2 small oval Baking- Dishes. 


4 deep Pie-Plates. 


2 large round Baking-Dishes. 


2 Blanc-)Iange Moulds. 


2 small round Baking-Dishes. 


2 Stone Jugs. 


1 8-quart Bowl. 


2 2-gallon Stone Jars. 


2 6-quart Bowls. 


2 gallon Stone Jars. 


4 4-quart Bowls. 


1 deep Pudding-Pot. 


2 2-quart Bowls. 


1 Bean-Pot. 


4 quart Bowls. 


1 Teapot. 


4 pint Bowls. 


Table Dishes as required. 


4 half-pint Bowls. 


1 Glass Rolling-Pin. 


6 half-pint Kitchen Cups. 


1 dozen quart Mason's Jan. 


12 Baking-Cups for Pop-Overs. 


1 dozen pint Mason's Jars. 


12 Custard Cups. 




WOODEN 


r WARE. 


1 Wash-Board. 


2 Pails for Refuse. 


1 large Bread-Board. 


1 Knife-Box. 


1 medium Bread-Board. 


1 Cover for Flour-Barrel. 


1 hard-wood Meat-Board. 


1 Coffee-Mill. 


1 Meat-Block. 


1 gallon Ice-Cream Freezer. 


1 large oval Chopping-Tray. 


1 Wooden Mallet. 


1 small round Chopping-Tray. 


1 Ice-Pick. 


1 Potato-Masher. 


2 Butter-Paddles. 


1 Mortar and Pestle. 


2 Butter-Moulds. 


1 Potato-Slicer. 


2 plain Wooden Spoons. 


1 Water-Pail. 


2 perforated Wooden Spoons 


1 Scrubbing-PaiU 


4 small Wooden Spoons. 



The Boston Cook Book. 



509 



4 Wooden Knives. 


* 
1 large Market Basket. 


• 


2 Brooms. 


1 small Market Basket. 




1 Whisk-Broom. 


1 hard- wood Rolling-Pin. 




1 Crumb Pan and Brush. 


2 Nests of Boxes. 




2 small Pastry-Brushes. 


2 Nests of Buckets. 




2 small Scrubbing-Brushes. 


Spice-Boxes. 




1 Scrubbing-Brush for Floor* 


2 Dish-Mops. 




1 Stove Blacking-Brush. 


1 Sink-Scraper. 




1 Stove Polish ing-B rush. 


2 Wash-Tubs. 




2 Dust-Brushes. 


Meat-Squeezer. 




1 long-handled Mop. 


1 Lemon-Squeezer. 




1 Knife-scouring Box* 


Refrigerator. 




1 Egg-Basket. 







AGATE WARE. 



1 2-quart Double Boiler. 
1 6-quart Covered Kettle. 
1 4-quart Covered Kettle. 
1 2-quart Covered Kettle. 
1 2-quart Saucepan. 

1 quart Saucepan. 

2 pint Saucepans. 

2 half-pint Saucepans. 



2 round 4-quart Pans. 
2 round 3-quart Pans. 
2 round 2-quart Pans. 
2 oval Pans. 

1 6-quart Preserving- Kettle. 
1 3-quart Preserving-Kettle. 
1 Hand-Basinc 



IRON WARE. 



Range with Hot Closet and Water 

Tank. 
1 double-lipped Spider. 
1 Griddle. 
1 Dish-Kettle. 
1 Teakettle. 

1 Dripping-Pan for Meat. 
1 Dripping-Pan for Fish. 
1 large French Fry-Pan. 
1 small French Fry-Pan. 

1 Scotch Bowl. 

2 Gem-Pans. 
French-Roll Pan. 

1 Soup Digester, or 

1 2-gallon Iron Pot, tight Cover. 

1 6-quart Enamelled Kettle. 

1 Enamelled oval Kettle for Fish and 

Ham. 
1 Waffle-iron. 
Salamander. 
Scales. 

3 Flat-Irons. 
Clock. 



Thermometer. 

6 Kitchen Knives. 

6 Kitchen Forks. 

2 Vegetable-Knives. 

1 Carving-Knife. 

1 Bread-Knife. 

1 Palette-Knife 

1 Chopping-Knife. 

1 French Vegetable-Knife. 

1 Meat-Fork. 

1 Pie-Fork. 

1 Meat-Saw. 

Meat-Hammer. 

1 Meat- Cleaver. 

1 Can-Opener. 

1 Boning-Knife. 

2 large Wooden - handled Iron 
Spoons. 

2 medium Wooden - handled Iron 

Spoons. 
2 small Wooden - handled Iron 

Spoons. 
6 Iron Tablespoons. 



5io 



The Boston Cook Book. 



6 common Teaspoons. 
2 Ivory Saltspoons. 
1 Set Steel Skewers. 
1 Set Larding-Needles. 



Paste-Jagger. 

1 Griddle-Spade. 

1 Galvanized Iron Lemon-Squeezer. 

1 Galvanized Iron Meat-Back. 



TIN AND WIRE WARE. 



1 large Grater. 

1 Nutmeg-Grater. 

1 Apple-Corer. 

1 Pepper-Box. 

1 Flour-Dredger. 

1 Sugar-Dredger. 

1 Salt-Dredger. 

1 Spice-Box. 

1 large-mouthed TunneL 

1 small Tunnel. 

1 large Tin Teakettle. 

1 small Tin Teakettle. 

Ice-Cream Moulds. 

Ice-Cream Packing-Cans. 

1 small Oil-Can. 

1 Wire Broiler for Steak. 

1 Wire Broiler for Fish. 

1 fine Broiler for Toast. 

1 Wire Soap-Dish. 

1 Wire Potato-Masher. 

1 Wire Spoon. 

1 Wire Egg- Whisk. 

1 Wire Frying-Basket. 

1 fine Wire Strainer. 

1 large Dover Egg-Beater 

1 small Dover Egg-Beater. 

1 Flour-Sifter. 

1 Extension Wire Strainer. 

1 Puree Sieve. 

1 Taper Soup-Strainer. 

2 Gravv Strainers. 
2 small Strainers. 

2 double-handled Strainers. 
1 8-inch Squash-Strainer. 
1 4-inch Squash-Strainer. 
1 Colander. 

1 Wire Dish-Cloth. 

2 large Dish-Pans. 

2 medium Dish-Pans. 

2 small Dish-Pans, for Flour. 

2 4-quart Milk-Pans. 

2 2-quart Milk-Pans. 

1 6-quart Covered-Pail. 



1 4-quart Covered-PaiL 
1 2-quart Covered-Pail. 
1 Quart Measure. 
6 half-pint Measure Cups* 
3 Tin Scoops, three sizes. 
1 4-quart Double Boiler. 
1 2-quart Double Boiler. 
1 quart Double Boiler. 
1 Teakettle Boiler. 
1 Steamer. 

1 plain Pudding-Boiler. 
1 fluted Rice Boiler. 
1 Brown-Bread Mould. 
1 large Melon Mould. 

1 small Melon Mould. 

2 quart fane}* Moulds. 
2 pint fancy Moulds. 

2 2-quart plain oval Moulds. 

2 3-pint plain oval Moulds. 

2 quart plain oval Moulds. 

2 pint plain oval Moulds. 

2 half-pint plain oval Moulds. 

1 4-6-quart Mould for Boned Turkey 

1 3-quart Mould for Boned Chicken 

Meat-Pie Moulds. 

6 small Charlotte Moulds. 

6 Shell Scallop Tins. 

1 dozen small Tins for Cakes. 
6 Scallop Patty Tins. 

6 small fancy Tins. 

2 6-holed Muffin Pans. 
1 dozen Muffin Rings. 
1 Cake-Trunk. 

1 Cracker-Trunk. 
1 Whip-Cburn. 
1 2-quart Coffee-Pot. 
1 quart Coffee-Ffct. 

1 Wash-Boiler. 

2 Dust-Pans. 

2 plain round Cutters, 2 sizes. 
2 plain oval Cutters. 
1 Doughnut-Cutter. 
1 small Biscuit-Cutter. 



The Boston Cook Booh 



5ii 



1 large Fluted Cutter. 
1 small Fluted Cutter. 
6 Vegetable-Cutters, 
6 Pastry-Cutters. 

3 Frosting-Tubes. 
1 Tube for Eclairs. 

1 Tube for Lady Fingers. 
1 long-handled Skimmer. 
1 short-handled Skimmer. 
1 large short-handled Dipper 
1 small long-handled Dipper. 
1 Ladle. 

4 Bread-Pans. 

4 Jelly-Cake Tins. 

4 deep Jelly-Cake Tins. 

1 Angel-Cake Pan. 

4 long shallow Pans for Bolls* 
4 long Pans, 2 inches deep* 

2 Sponge-Cake Pans. 



2 *ong deep Pans for Fruit Cake. 

2 Gingerbread Sheets. ' 

1 Fish-Sheet. 

4 plain Pie- Plates. 

4 shallow Pie-Plates. 

1 large Pan for Meat. 

1 small Pan for Meat. 

1 Can with Spout for Oil. 

2 Cans with Spout for Molasses. 
1 gallon Milk-Can. 

1 2-quart Milk-Can. 

1 quart Milk-Can. 

1 pint Milk-Can. 

1 Canister for Tea. 

1 Canister for Coffee. 

Tin Covers for Bowls and Braising- 

Pans. 
Perforated Tins for Steamers. 
Clamp for Preserve Jars. 



MISCELLANEOUS. ' 



1 dozen fine Dish-Towels. 
1 dozen Hand-Towels. 
6 coarse Towels. 
6 Oven-Holders. 
3 Floor-cloths. 

3 Sink-Cloths. 
9 Dish-Cloths. 

4 Lamp-Cloths. 

Soft Cotton Cloth for washing Meat 

and Fish. 
Cheese-CIoth. 
Strainer-Cloth. 
Pudding-Cloths. 
Fine Linen Strainers. 
Mosquito Netting for Spice- Bags. 
1 Canvas Bag for Ice. 
Large Darning-Needles. 
Common Needles. 
Fine Twine. 
Coarse Thread 

5 issors. 
Kitchen Lamp. 



Ironing Sheet and Holders. 

Gimlet. 

Screw-Driver, 

Corkscrew. 

Hammer. 

Tacks. 

Screws. 

Hooks. 

Nails. 

Brad-Awls. 

White Paper for Cake- Tins. 

Light soft Paper for Draining. 

Rubber Pastry-Bags. 

Coal-Hod. 

Coal-Shovel. 

Coal-Sieve. 

Ash-Hod. 

Two Work-Tables, covered with Mar- 
bled Cloth, and fitted with Drawers 
and Shelves underneath. 

Chairs, as required. 

Writing-Desk and Table combined. 



GENERAL INDEX. 



INTRODUCTION. 



PAGE 

Cookery • . • 1 

Fire 3 

Fuel 4 

Making a Fire •••••• 5 

Boiling • . 8 

Stewing. ..••••••12 

Fricasseeing ....... 12 

Braising ........ 13 

Baking 13 

Frying ••••••.••14 

Fat for Frying 16 

Saut&ng .•••••••17 

Clarifying Fat 18 

Egg and Bread Crumbing • • 19 
Boasting 20 



PAGE 

Broiling .21 

Time Tables for Cooking ... 24 

Larding 25 

Daubing 25 

Boning • 26 

Measuring 28 

Table of Weights and Measures 30 

Table of Proportions .... 31 
Rules for Mixed Spices and 

Herbs 32 

Mixing 33 

Stirring and Beating . ... 33 

Cutting and Folding . ... 34 

Table of Cost of Groceries • • • 35 



BREAD AND BREAD MAKING. 



Importance of Bread .... 36 

Derivation of Word " Bread " . 36 

Chemical Composition of Wheat 37 

Preparing Wheat Flour ... 39 

St. Louis Flour 39 

Haxall Flour 40 

Minnesota Flour • • . ... 41 

Health Food Flour 42 

Tests of Good Flour .... 42 

Fermented Bread 44 

Fermentation 45 

Yeast Plant 46 

Chemical Changes in Yeast Bread 47 

Unfermented Bread 48 

33 



The Best Kinds of Yeast . . 49 

Dry and Compressed Yeast . • 49 

Home-made Yeast • .... 50 

Making the Dough , . . • . 51 

Manner of Mixing 52 

Sugar and Potatoes in Bread . • 53 

Shortening in Bread . . • . 53 

Kneading the Dough . ... 54 

Temperature for Raising Bread . 56 

Time for Raising Bread ... 56 

Soda in Raised Bread . ... 57 

Shaping into Loaves .... 58 

Temperature for Baking Bread . 60 

The Care of Bread after Baking 61 



514 



General Index. 



RECEIPTS FOR YEAST AND BREAD. 



Raw Potato Yeast 
Boiled Potato Yeast 
Hop Yeast • . . 
Water Bread • • 
Milk Bread, No. 1 
Milk Bread, No. 2 
Water Bread with a Sponge 
Milk Bread with a Sponge 



PAGE 

. 62 

. 63 

. 63 

. 63 

. 64 

. 64 

. 65 

• 65 



PAGE 

Whole-Wheat or Graham Bread 66 

"Squash Bread ...... 66 

Rye Bread 67 

Raised Brown Bread • ... 67 

Thirded Bread 67 

Sour Milk Brown Bread ... 68 

Sour Milk Brown Bread, No. S • 68 



RAISED BISCUIT, ROLLS, etc. 



Biscuit . • • • 
Imperial Rolls • • 
Finger Rolls • • 
Cleft Rolls . . • 
Cross Rolls • • 
Parker House Rolls 
Twin Rolls . . 
Pocketbook Rolls 
Letter Rolls <• • 
Braids . • • • 
Crescents • • • 
Vienna Rolls • • 



68 
69 
70 
70 
70 
70 
70 
70 
70 
71 
71 
71 



French Rolls ....... 71 

Sticks . . . • 71 

White Mountain Rolls . ... 72 

Swedish Rolls .72 

Rusk, No. 1 . 73 

Rusk, No. 2 73 

Rusk,No. 3 73 

Dried Rusks ....... 74 

Bunns 74 

Hot Cross Bunns ..... 74 

Raised Doughnuts . .... 74 

Raised Bread Cake • • • • . 74 



STALE BREAD, TOAST, etc. 



Dried Bread Crumbs 
Stale Bread Crumbs 
Stale Bread, Steamed 
Egg Toast . • . 
Bread Sauted • • 
Italian Fritters • • 



75 
75 
76 
76 
76 
76 



Brown Bread Brewis • 
Brown Bread Brewis, No 
Milk Toast .... 
Cream Toast • . • • 
Water Toast .... 
Toast for Garnishing . 



77 
77 
78 
79 
79 
79 



SODA BISCUIT, MUFFINS, GEMS, etc 



Potash, Pearlash, Saleratus, 

Soda 80 

Cream of Tartar, Muriatic 

Acid 81 

Baking-Powders ..... 82 

Soda Biscuit . 83 

Baking-Powder Biscuit • • • 83 

Sour Milk Biscuit 83 

Whole-Wheat or Rye Biscuit . 84 

Cream Biscuit 84 

Short Cake, No. 1 84 

Short Cake, No. 2 85 



Strawberry Short Cake, No. 1 , 85 

Strawberry Short Cake,' No. 2 • 85 

Peach or Apricot Short Cake « • 85 

Orange Short Cake .... 86 

Whole-Wheat or Rye Short 

Cakes ........ 86 

Dutch Apple Cake ..... 88 

Apple or Huckleberry Cakes • 87 

Raised Muffins ...... 87 

Sally Lunns ....... 88 

Oatmeal Biscuit .••••• 88 

Tea Cakes 89 



Oeneral Index. 



515 



Cream Muffins 

Granulated Wheat Muffins . 
Bye and Corn Muffins • . 
Apple Johnny Cake ... 
Corn Cake (Thin) .... 
Sponge Corn Cake • » • , 
Spider Corn Cake . . • • 
Corn and Rice Muffins . . 
Hominy and Corn Meal Cakes 
Maryland Corn Cakes . . 
Dodgers, or Dabs, or Puffs • 
Indian Bannock . • . . . 



PAGE 

89 Hoe Cake 



PAOK 

93 



89 



90 f Rice or Hominy Drop Cakes 



91 
91 
91 
92 
92 
92 
92 
93 
93 



Rice Crusts 94 



Breakfast Puffs or Popovers • 
Rye Gems or Shells ...» 
Whole- Wheat or Graham Gems 
Whole- Wheat Crisps .... 

Fine Gran mated Wheat Gems • 
Maryland or Beaten Biscuit • 
Graham Wafers ...... 96 

Wafer Biscuit ...... 96 

Gluten Wafers 97 



94 
94 
94 
95 
95 

95 

96 



WAFFLES AND GRIDDLE-CAKES. 



Distinction between Griddle- 




Cakes, Pancakes, etc. . . . 


. 97 


Waffle Iron 






98 


Waffles 






98 


Lemon Syrup . • . 






. 98 


Raised Waffles .... 






. 99 


Flannel Cakes .... 






. 99 


Graham Waffles . . 






. 99 


Corn Meal Waffles 






, 99 


To Cook Griddle-Cakes 






. 99 


Griddle-Cakes . • • 






► 100 



Corn Meal Griddle-Cakes • • 109 

Graham Griddle-Cakes . • . 100 

Huckleberry Griddle-Cakes • 100 

Rice or Hominy Griddle-Cakes 100 

Bread Griddle-Cakes .... 100 

Raised Graham Griddle-Cakes 101 

Buckwheat Griddle-Cakes . . 101 

Corn Meal Slappers .... 101 

Pease Griddle-Cakes .... 101 

Squash Griddle-Cakes . . • 102 

French Pancakes 102 



FRIED MUFFINS, FRITTERS, AND DOUGHNUTS. 



Fried Drop Cakes .... 
Fried Flour Muffins . . . 
Fried Corn Meal Cakes . • 
Fried Rye Muffins .... 
Fried Rye Muffins, Sour Milk 
Doughnuts, Sour Milk . • 
Doughnuts, No. 2 . • • . 
Doughnuts, No. 3 . * . . 



102 
103 
103 
104 
104 
104 
104 
105 



Raised Doughnuts 105 

Crullers 105 

Wonders, or Cheats .... 106 

Henriettas 106 

Cinci, or RagS .106 

Fritter Batter 106 

Oyster and Clam Fritters • , 107 

Apple and Vegetable Fritters . 107 



OATMEAL AND OTHER GRAINS. 



Oatmeal 108 

Groats 108 

Indian Corn 108 

Rye Meal 109 

Barley 109 

Buckwheat 109 

Rice 109 



Oatmeal Mush ...... 109 

Hominy 110 

Cracked Wheat 110 

Granulated Wheat 110 

Hasty Pudding ...... 110 

Indian Meal Mush . • • . .110 

Fried Hasty Puddiug . . . , 110 



5 i6 



General Index. 



BEVERAGES. 



PAOE 

Tea Ill 

Iced Tea Ill 

Russian Tea Ill 

Coffee Ill 

Roasting Coffee Ill 

Coffee (Common Coffee-Pot) . 115 

Steamed Coffee 115 

Coffee made with Cold Water . 115 

Coffee made with Eggs . • . 115 

Filtered Coffee 116 



PAGE 

To Serve Coffee 116 

'After Dinner or Black Coffee . 116 

Vienna Coffee 116 

CateauLait 116 

Cocoa and Chocolate . • . • 116 

To Make Cocoa ...... 117 

Prepared Cocoa • 117 

Shells . 117 

Chocolate 118 

German Chocolate . . . . • 118 



SOUP AND STOCK. 



General Remarks on Soup . • 119 

Meaning of Stock . ... 121 

Essential Rules for Soup Making 122 

Soup Digester 122 

Kind of Meat for Soup . . • 123 

Skimming Soup . • . • • 125 

Seasoning for Soup .... 126 

Dark Stock 127 

Straining Stock .127 

Removing Fat from Stock . . 128 

Clearing Stock ...... 129 

Rule for Brown Stock . . . 130 

Bouillon 131 

Clear, Amber Soup, or Con- 
somme* • 131 

Left-over Soup 132 

Julienne Soup 132 

Macaroni Soup 133 

Vermicelli Soup ..... 133 

Rice Soup 133 

Tapioca Soup ...... 133 

Sago Soup ........ 133 

Barley Soup 133 



Tomato Soup with Stock 
Carrot or Crecy Soup . 
Mixed Vegetable Soup 
Caramel for Soup • 
Glaze . . . . 
Thickening for Soup 
Materials served with 
Croutons . . • 
Crisped Crackers 
Egg Balls . . . 
Force-Meat Balls 
Mock Turtle Soup 
Oxtail Soup . . 
Mullagatawny Soup 
Scotch Broth 
Mutton Broth . 
Chicken Broth . 
Turkey Soup 
White* Soup Stock 
White Soup, Veal 
White Soup, Chicken 
Potage a la Reine • 
Potage a la Reine, No 



Soup 



2 



SOUP WITHOUT STOCK. 



Potato Soup 

Celery Soup 

Tomato Soup . • . . 
Mock Bisque Soup . • • 
Black Bean Soup • . • 
Split Pea Soup . . . • 
Green Pea Soup . . • 
Green Corn Soup . . • 
Vegetable Soup (Winter) 

Fish Soup 

Purle of Salmon . . • 



146 
147 
147 
147 
148 
149 
150 
150 
151 
152 
152 



133 

134 

134 

134 

135 

135 

136 

136 

136 

136 

137 

137 

139 

139 

140 

141 

142 

142 

143 

143 

144 

144 

145 



Lobster Soup, or Bisque of Lob- 
ster 152 

Lobster Soup, No. 2 .... 153 

Oyster Soup • • 153 

Oyster Stew 154 

Clam Soup 154 

Fish Chowder 155 

Clam Chowder 156 

Corn Chowder 157 

Lobster Chowder 157 

Purde of Clams 158 



General Index. 



517 



FISH. 



PAGE 

General Remarks on Fish . . 159 

To Clean Fish 160 

To Skin Fish 161 

To Bone Fish 161 

Fillets of Fish 161 

Broiled Fish 161 

Baked Fish 162 

Stuffing for Fish 163 

Oyster Stuffing 163 

Baked Fish (served whole) • . 164 

To Carve Baked Fish .... 164 

Baked Fish, No. 2 164 

Baked Halibut 165 

Fried Fish 165 

Boiled Fish 166 

Fish au Court Bouillon • • . 167 

Stewed Fish 168 

Fish a la Creme 168 

Remnants of Cooked Fish • • 169 

Scalloped Fish 169 

Fish in Potato Border. ... 169 



PAGE 

Chartreuse or Casserole of Fish 170 

Kedgeree 170 

Curried Fish 170 

Creamed Fish with Oysters . • 170 

Spiced Fish 170 

Crimped Fish 170 

Potted Fish 171 

Salt Fish Balls 171 

Fish Hash 172 

Fish Souffle* 172 

To Cook Salt Fish 172 

Salt Mackerel 172 

Salt Fish Dinner 173 

Creamed Salt Fish 173 

Mock Oyster Stew 173 

Scorched Salt Fish .... 173 

Tongues and Sounds .... 173 

Fried Fish Roes 173 

Scalloped Roes 173 

Small Fish Baked in Crusts . 174 

Table of Cost of Fish .... 174 



SHELL FISH. 



Shell Fish 175 

Oysters 175 

Oysters Cooked in the Shell . 175 

Raw Oysters 175 

Oysters on Ice 176 

To Prepare Oysters for Cooking 176 

Oysters Cooked in their Liquor 176 

Smothered Oysters .... 176 

Creamed Oysters 177 

Fricasseed Oysters 177 

Scalloped Oysters 177 

Oysters en Coquille . . . . 177 
Oysters and Mushrooms in 

Crust 178 

Pigs in Blankets 178 

Fried Oysters 178 

Sauted Oysters 179 

Broiled Oysters 179 

Pickled Oysters . 179 

Clams 179 

Steamed Clams 179 

Scalloped Clams 180 

A Clam Bake 180 

Scallops ,  181 



Fried Scallops 181 

Lobsters 181 

To Choose Lobsters .... 181 

To Open Lobsters 182 

Plain Lobster 182 

Stewed Lobster 182 

Creamed Lobster 183 

Curried Lobster 183 

Scalloped Lobster 183 

Devilled Lobster 183 

Crabs 183 

Soft Shell Crabs 184 

Boiled Crabs 184 

Scalloped Crabs 184 

Devilled Crabs 184 

Crab Salad 184 

Shrimps and Prawns .... 184 

Shrimp Salad 184 

Shrimps en Coqnille .... 184 

Scalloped Shrimps 184 

Reptiles • • 185 

Frogs 185 

Terrapin ........ 186 

Green Turtle Soup • ... ( 186 



5 i8 



General Index. 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES. 



Meat and Fish Sauces . . • 
Drawn Butter . • - • • 
Caper Sauce ...... 

Egg Sauce ...... 

Parsley Sauce - . . . . 

Lemon Sauce • . . . . 

Shrimp Sauce . • • . • 

Acid Sauce 

Mustard Sauce . . . . . 
Lobster Sauce • . • • • 

Oyster Sauce 

Celery Sauce 

Richer Drawn Butter Sauce . 

Sauce Piquante 

White Sauce ...... 

Bechamel Sauce .... 

Fish Sauce ...... 

Currv Sauce 

Cream Sauce ..... 
Thick Cream Sauce . . • 
Brown Sauce . • • • • 
Brown Sauce Piquante • • 
Sauce Poivrade ..... 
Sauce Robert ..... 



PAGE 

187 
187 
188 
188 
188 
188 
188 
188 
188 
188 
188 
189 
189 
189 
189 
189 
190 
190 
190 
190 
191 
191 
191 
191 



Brown Mushroom Sauce . . 
Currant Jelly Sauce • . . 
Olive Sauce ...... 

Cumberland Sauce .. • • 

Flemish Sauce 

Sauce a la Italienne . • • 

Chestnut Sauce 

Peanut Sauce ..... 
Port Wine Sauce .... 
Espagnole Sauce .... 

Bread Sauce 

Soubise Sauce 

Tomato Sauce ..... 

Tomato Sauce for Chops • • 
Hollandaise Sauce .... 

Tartar Sauce (Hot) . . . 
Tartar Sauce . ..... 

Horseradish Sauce (Hot) . 
Horseradish Sauce (Cold) • 
Sauce Tartare ..... 

Maitre d* Hotel Sauce . . . 
Maitre d' Hotel Sauce (Hot) . 
Sauce for Fish Balls • . • 
Mint Sauce 



PAGl 

191 

191 

199 

192 

192 

192 

192 

193 

193 

193 

193 

193 

193 

194 

194 

194 

195 

195 

195 

195 

195 

196 

196 

196 



EGGS. 



Remarks on Eggs .... 
Boiled Eggs (Soft) .... 
Boiled Eggs (Hard) . . • 
Dropped or Poached Eggs . 

Ham and Eggs 

Spanish Eggs ..... 

Eggs Poached in Tomatoes . 
Scrambled Eggs .... 

Scrambled Eggs, No. 2 • . 
Omelet. ....... 

Fancy Omelets ..... 

Creamy Omelet 

Cream} r Omelet, No. 2 • . 
Sweet, or Jelly Omelet • • 

Orange Omelet 

Omelet Souffle' 

Baked Eggs, Nos. 1 and 2 . 



197 
199 
199 
199 
200 
200 
200 
200 
200 
200 
201 
202 
202 
202 
202 
203 
203 



Baked Eggs, Nos. 3 and 4 . • 204 

Eggs en Coquille 204 

Eggs en Coquille, No. 2 . . .204 

Eggs and Minced Meat . . > 204 

Pannikins 205 

Curried Eggs 205 

Egg Vermicelli 206 

Stuffed Eggs 206 

Stuffed Eggs, No. 2 . . . .207 

Scotch Eggs 207 

Scotch Eggs, No. 2 .... 207 

Scalloped Eggs 207 

Egg Balls in Baskets .... 208 

Eggs a la Creme 208 

Eggs in a Nest 209 

Egg Salad 209 

Devilled Eggs ...... 209 



Classification of Meat . 
Composition of Meat . 



MEAT. 

210 I Fibrine . . . . 
210 I Albumen . . • 



2K 
310 



General Index. 



519 



PAGE 

Gelatine •••••••• 210 

Fat of Meat 211 

Juice of Flesh- 211 

Osmazome .•••••• 211 

Extract of Meat . . .  , 211 



PAGE 

Seasons for Meat 211 

Diagram of Ox ...... 212 

Diagram of Hind Quarter • . 212 

Care of Meat 213 

Coat of Meat and Game . • • 213 



BEEF. 



Tests for Good Beef • . • • 
Divisions of the Hind Quarter • 
Divisions of the Fore Quarter . 
Roast Sirloin of Beef .... 

Rib Roast • • 

Back of the Rump 

Yorkshire Pudding .... 
Gravy for Roast Beef .... 

Fillet of Beef . 

Broiled Steak ...... 

Broiled Fillets of Beef . . . 
Broiled Meat Cakes . • • . 
Hamburg Steak . . . . . 

Braised Beef . 

Beef a la Mode 



214 
214 
218 
220 
221 
221 
221 
221 
222 
223 
223 
223 
224 
224 
225 



Beef Stew with Dumplings . . 225 

Dumplings 227 

Rolled Flank of Beef .... 227 

Smothered Beef or Pot Roast . 228 

Spiced Beef 228 

Corned Beef 228 

Boiled Dinner 229 

Vegetable Hash 230 

Tongue in Jelly 230 

Smoked Tongue 230 

Lyonnaise Tripe • • • • • 230 

Broiled Tripe 231 

Tripe in Batter 231 

Liver 231 

Kidneys 231 



MUTTON AND LAMB. 



Mutton and Lamb . . . 
Saddle of Mutton or Lamb 
Roasted Leg of Mutton 
Boiled Leg of Mutton . 
Fore Quarter of Mutton 
Mutton Duck • . • 
Braised Mutton . . • 
■Lamb or Mutton Chops 
Breaded Mutton Cutlets 



232 
233 
233 
234 
234 
235 
236 
236 
236 



Chops en Papillote . . . . . 236 

Fricassee of Mutton or Lamb . 237 

Mutton Stew for Two .... 237 

Curry of Mutton 238 

Ragout of Mutton 238, 

Braised Sheep's Tongues . • 238 

Boiled Lambs' Tongues • • . 238 

Pickled Lambs' Tongues . . 238 



VEAL. 



Veal 

Roast Veal . • . . 
Fricandeau of Veal . 
Veal Stew or Fricassee 
Veal Cutlets . . . 
Braised Calf's Liver • 
Braised Calf's Heart • 
Calf's Head. . . . 
Brain Sauce .... 
Minced Calf s Head . 



239 
239 
240 
240 
240 
241 
241 
241 
242 
242 



Sweetbreads. 243 

Larded Sweetbreads • • • • 243 

Fried Sweetbreads .... 243 

Creamed Sweetbreads . . . 243 

Broiled Sweetbreads • • . • 243 

Scalloped Sweetbreads . • • 243 

Sweetbreads with Mushrooms • 244 

Braised Sweetbreads • • • • 244 

Sweetbread Fritters . »  • 244 

To Serve Sweetbreads • • • 244 



1 



520 



General Index. 



POEK. 



PAGE 

Pork 245 

Roast Pig 245 

Roast Pork 246 

Pork Chops 246 

Breakfast Bacon ..... 246 

Fried Salt Pork ..... 246 

Boiled Ham 247 



PAGE 

To Serve Cold Ham .... 247 

Fried and Broiled Ham • • • 247 

Sausages • 248 

Souse 248 

Head Cheese 248 

To Try out Lard 249 

Baked Pork and Beans ... 249 



POULTRY AND GAME. 



Poultry and Game ..... 251 

To Choose and Clean Poultry . 252 

To Dress a Fowl for a Fricassee 253 

To Dress a Fowl for Roasting . 253 

To Stuff and Truss a Fowl . . 254 

To Clean Giblets 254 

To Dress Fowls for Broiling . 255 

To Carve Poultry 255 

Gravy for Roast Poultry . • . 256 

Roast Turkey 256 

Boiled or Steamed Poultry . • 257 

Roast Chicken 257 

Chestnut Stuffing and Sauce . 258 

Braised Fowl 258 

Chicken Fricassee 258 

Chicken Stew 258 

Chicken Curry 259 



Broiled Chicken 260 

Fried Chicken 260 

Broiled Fillets of Chicken • • 260 

Devilled Chicken ..... 260 

Roast Goose 261 

Roast Duck 261 

Braised Duck 261 

Larded Grouse 262 

Potted Pigeons .262 

Braised Pigeons ..... 262 

Pigeons Stuffed with Parsley . 262 

Roast Birds 263 

Quail 263 

Woodcock 263 

Venison 263 

Rabbits ... 1 .... 264 



ENTRIES AND MEAT R^CHAUFFfe 



Boned Turkey ..... 
Stuffing for Boned Turkey . 

Boned Chicken 

Stuffing for Boned Chicken . 
To Mould in Aspic Jelly • 
Pressed Chicken .... 
Blanquette of Chicken . . 

Chicken Pilau 

Scalloped Chicken .... 

Chicken Pie ...... 

Chicken Terrapin .... 

Chicken Chartreuse . • • 

Salmis of Game 

Beef Olives or Rolls • . . 

Beef Roulette 

Fricadilloes ...... 

Frizzled Beef ..... 

Meat Pie 



265 
265 
266 
266 
266 
267 
268 
268 
268 
268 
269 
269 
270 
270 
271 
271 
272 
272 



Meat Porcupine 272 

Ragout of Cooked Meat . • . 273 

Hash 273 

Sandwiches . 273 

Scalloped Mutton 274 

Casserole of Rice and Meat . . 274 

Casserole of Mock Sweetbreads 274 

Potato Border ...... 275 

Veal Birds 275 

Melton Veal 275 

Veal Loaf 276 

Meat Souffle* 276 

Potting 277 

Potted Liver 277 

Ragout of Lamb's or Calf 9 

Liver 277 

Croquettes 277 

To Shape Croquettes .... 278 



General Index. 



521 



PAGE 

Thick Cream Sauce • • , • 278 

Chicken Croquettes • • . . 279 

Veal Croquettes 279 

Ovster Croquettes . • • • . 279 

Sweetbread Croquettes • • •' 279 

Lobster Croquettes • • . • 280 

Lobster Cutlets 280 

Clam Croquettes , . . . . 280 



PAGE 

Potato Croquettes 280 

Oyster Plant Croquettes . . . 280 

Turkish Croquettes • • . . 281 

Sweet Rice Croquettes • . . 281 

Savory Rice Croquettes • • • 281 

Rice or Spaghetti Croquettes . 281 

Hominy Croquettes .... 282 

CrSmeFrSte 282 



SUNDRIES. 



Welsh Rarebit 282 

Cheese Souffle* . ' 282 

Crackers a la CrSme • • • • 283 

Cracker firewis ...... 283 

Sardine Canapees 283 

Turkish Pilaf 283 

Turkish Pilaf, No. 2 283 

Sour Milk Cheese 283 



Forefathers' Dinner . . . . 284 

Hulled Corn 286 

Indian Meal Pudding .... 286 

Chickens Forced with Oysters • 286 

Bean Porridge 287 

Smothered Chicken .... 288 
Steamed Apple and Indian Meal 

Pudding 288 



VEGETABLES. 



Remarks on Vegetable Food • 289 

Potatoes 292 

Boiled Potatoes 293 

Potatoes k la Neige .... 293 

Rice Potatoes 293 

Mashed Potatoes 294 

Potato Balls 294 

Potato Puff 294 

Lyonnaise Potatoes .... 294 

Creamed Potatoes • . . . * 294 

fried Potatoes 295 

French Potatoes 295 

Potatoes a la Maitre d' Hotel . 295 

Baked Potatoes 295 

Franconia Potatoes .... 295 
Potatoes in the Half Shell, or 

Potato Souffle 296 

Stuffed Potatoes 296 

Fried Raw Potatoes .... 296 

Saratoga Potatoes ..... 296 

Parisienne Potatoes . , • . 296 

Macaroni Potatoes 296 

Shoo Fly Potatoes 296 

Crescent Potatoes ..... 296 

Sweet Potatoes 296 

A Southern Dish . . ... 296 

Spinach 296 



Greens . • 297 

Asparagus ....... 297 

Green Peas 298 

String Beans . 298 

Shelled Beans 298 

Sweet Corn 299 

Green Corn Fritters .... 299 

Succotash 299 

Tomatoes, Stewed 300 

Tomatoes, Scalloped and Stuffed 300 

Onions, Boiled 301 

Onions, Scalloped, Baked . . 301 

Cauliflower 301 

Cabbage .302 

Celery 302 

Egg Plant 302 

Egg Plant Fritters 303 

Jerusalem Artichokes .... 303 

Globe Artichokes 303 

Mushrooms 303 

Winter Squash 304 

Summer Squash 304 

Carrots and Turnips .... 305 

Parsnips 305 

Parsnip Fritters ..... 305 

Salsify 306 

Beets 306 



522 



General Index. 



RICE AND MACARONI. 



PAOB 

Rice 906 

Boiled Rice 806 

Steamed Rice 307 

Savory Rice ...•••• 907 

Salmon Rice 807 



PAOB 

Rice with Cheese 307 

Macaroni and Vermicelli • • . 308 

Macaroni, No. 2 ...... 309 

Macaroni, No. 3 • • • . • 309 

Spaghetti - • . 309 



Salads .•••••... 

French Dressing . . . . . 

Boiled Dressing 

Boiled Dressing for Cold Slaw . 
Mayonnaise Dressing .... 

Mayonnaise Tartare Dressing • 
Lettuce Salad ...... 

Dressed Celery ...... 

Cucumber Salad • • . • . 



SALADS. 

309 ' Cucumber and Tomato Salad • 313 
810 Potato Salad 313 

310 Egg Salad 314 

311 Ovster Salad . ' 314 

311 Fish Salad 314 

312 Chicken Salad 314 

312 Lobster Salad 315 

312 Salmon Salad 315 

312 Salad Sandwiches 315 



PASTRY AND PIES. 



Puff Paste 316 

Baking Puff Paste 319 

Patties 319 

Tarts 319 

Cupid's Wells 320 

Vol-au-vent ....... 321 

Cakes a la Polonaise .... 321 

Bow-Knots 321 

Rissoles 321 

Plaits .322 

Cheese Straws 322 

Pies 323 

Paste for One Pie 323 



Cream Paste 323 

Plain Paste 324 

Lemon Pie 324 

Chess Pie 324 

Apple Pie 325 

Rhubarb Pie 325 

Squash Pie 325 

Custard Pie 325 

Berry Pie 326 

Mince Pie 326 

Plain Mince Pie 326 

EcclesPie 326 

Fanchonnettes 327 



PUDDING SAUCES. 



Hard Sauce 328 

Snowdrift Sauce 328 

Lemon Sauce 328 

Whipped Cream Sauce ... 328 

Apricot Sauce 329 

Creamy Sauce 329 



Foamy Sauce • 329 

Caramel Sauce 330 

Molasses Sauce 330 

Yellow Sauce ...... 330 

Wine Sauce 830 

Plain Pudding Sauce .... 330 



HOT PUDDINGS. 



Cottage Pudding 331 

Dutch Apple Cake .331 

Scalloped Apple 331 

Steamed Apple Pudding . . • 332 



Steamed Carrot Pudding . . 332 

Bread and Fruit Pudding . . 333 

Eve's Pudding 333 

Bird's-Nest Pudding . ... 333 



1 




I 



General Index. 



523 



Page 

Apple Tapioca Pudding ... 833 

Apple Meringue 333 

Apple Porcupine • . • • • 834 

Friar's Omelet 334 

Apricots k la Neige . • • . 335 

Apple Snow Balls 335 

Plain Rice Pudding .... 335 

Poor Man's Pudding ..... 335 

Rice and Fruit Pudding ... 336 

Rice Souffle* 336 

Rice Custard 336 

Custard Souffle* ...... 387 

Sponge Pudding 337 



PAGE 

Bread Pudding 337 

Plum Pudding (Plain) ... 337 
Queen of Puddings .... 338 
French Bread Pudding ... 338 
Plymouth' Indian Meal Pudding 338 
Baked Indian Meal Pudding . 338 
Whole-Wheat Pudding ... 338 
Steamed Fruit Pudding ... 339 
Steamed Suet and Fruit Pud- 
ding 339 

Cabinet Pudding 339 

Christmas Plum Pudding . • 340 

Thanksgiving Plum Pudding • 340 



CUSTARDS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS. 



Irish Moss Blanc Mange . • . 341 
Chocolate Pudding .... 341 
Danish Pudding, or Fruit Tapi- 
oca 342 

Fruit Pudding 342 

Boiled Custard 342 

Flummery 343 

Tipsy Pudding 343 

Floating Island 343 

Chocolate Custard 3i3 

Soft Caramel Custard .... 343 

Cocoanut Custard 343 

Macaroon Custard 343 

Almond Custard 343 

Candied Fruit Custard . . . 343 

Orange Custard 344 

Baked Custard 344 

Steamed Custard 344 

Caramel Custard 344 

Delicate Pudding 344 

Apple Snow 345 

Tapioca Cream 345 

Gelatine Pudding 345 

Spanish and Italian Cream . • 346 

Quaking Custard 346 

Snow Pudding 347 

Orange Charlotte ..... 348 

Apple Charlotte ..... 348 

Fruit Charlotte 848 



Velvet Cream 349 

Wine Jelly 349 

Orange Jelly 350 

Lemon Jelly 350 

Italian Jelly 350 

Orange Baskets 351 

Orange Sections ..... 351 

Imperial Cream ...... 352 

Whipped Cream ..... 352 

Cream Whips ...... 353 

Newport Whips 353 

Charlotte Russe 354 

Plain Bavarian Cream • . . 355 

Strawberry Charlotte .... 355 

Banana Charlotte ..... 355 

Riz a la Implratrice .... 356 

Bavarian Cream, No. 2 ... 356 

Chocolate Bavarian Cream . • 356 

Coffee Bavarian Cream . • . 356 

Bavarian Cream with Fruit • . 356 

Norfolk Cream 357 

Mock Cantaloupe 357 

Prune Pudding ...... 357 

Cr§me Diplomats 358 

Royal Diplomatic Pudding . . 358 

Gateau St. Honore .... 859 

G&teau de Princess Louise • • 360 

Chantilly Baskets 360 



ICE-CREAM AND SHERBET. 



To Freeze Ice-Cream . 
Philadelphia Ice-Cream 



361 1 Neapolitan Ice-Cream . • . 363 
362 I Ice-Cream, No. 3 363 



524 



General Index. 





PAGE 


Vanilla Ice-Cream . • . 


. . 364 






Chocolate Ice-Cream . . 


. . 364 






Caramel Ice-Cream . . < 


. . 364 


Pineapple Ice-Cream . . . 


. . 364 


Strawberry Ice-Cream • . 


, . 364 


Banana Ice-Cream . . • . 


, . 364 


Baked Apple Ice-Cream . . 


. 365 


Pistachio Ice-Cream . . . 


. . 365 


Macaroon Ice-Cream . • . 


. • 365 


Almond Ice-Cream . . , 


. . 365 


Walnut Ice-Cream • • . 


. 365 


Cocoanut Ice-Cream . . , 


. . 365 


Brown Bread Ice-Cream . , 


. 365 




, . 365 











PACK 

Ice-Cream with Condensed 

Milk 365 

TuttiFrutti 365 

Nesselrode Pudding . . . • 366 

Frozen Pudding 366 

Plombiere 366 

Bomta Glace* 367 

Biscuit Glace* 367 

Frozen Apricots • • • • . 367 

Frozen Fruit 367 

Sherbets 367 

Orange Sherbet 368 

Pomegranate Sherbet . • • • 368 

Lemon Sherbet 368 

Pineapple Sherbet 368 

Strawberry Sherbet .... 368 

Raspberry Sherbet • • • . 368 



CAKE. 



Mixing and Baking Cake . « 369 

Sponge Cake Mixtures . • . 372 

Butter Cake Mixtures . . . 372 

Sponge Cake 373 

Lady Fingers 374 

Sponge Drops 374 

Miss Ward's Sponge Cake . . 374 

Angel Cake 374 

Sunshine Cake 375 

Sponge Cake for Cream Pies . 375 

Berwick Sponge Cake . • . 375 

Cream for Cream Pies . . • 375 

Sponge Cake with Fruit • • . 375 

Sponge Cake for Children • . 375 

RollJellyCake 376 

One Egg Cake 376 

Park Street Cake 376 

Orange Cake 377 

Orange Cream for Cake • • • 377 

Orange Cake, No. 2 . . . . 377 

Orange and Cocoanut Cream . 377 

Mother's Cake ...... 378 

Currant Cake * 378 

Date Cake 378 

Leopard Cake 378 

White Mountain Cake . , . 378 

Nut Cake 378 

Cocoanut and Baisin Cream . 378 



Macdonald Cake . • • • . 379 

Cider Cake ....... 379 

Dominos ........ 379 

Madelines 379 

Gold and Silver Cake . • • 379 

Watermelon Cake 380 

Marble Cake 380 

Cornstarch Cake 380 

Snow Cake 380 

Dream Cake 380 

Buttercup Cake 381 

Harlequin Cake 381 

Lemon Jelly for Cake ... 381 

Pink Coloring for Cake . . . 381 

Pokeberry Syrup 382 

Ribbon Cake 382 

Coffee Cake 382 

Spice Cake 382 

Plum Cakes 383 

Pound Cake 383 

Wedding Cake 383 

Plain Frosting 384 

Boiled Frosting 384 

Ornamental Frosting • . • • 384 

Golden Frosting 384 

Pink Frosting 385 

Chocolate .Frosting . • • • 385 

Orange Frosting • • • • • 885 



General Index. 



525 



PAGE 

Plain Cookies 385 

Richer Cookies 385 

Cocoanut Cookies 386 

Jumbles 386 

Hermits 386 

New Year's Cookies .... 386 

One-Two-Three-Four Cookies . 386 

Thin Sugar Gingerbread . • . 386 

Superior Gingerbread .... 387 

Hard Gingerbread ..... 387 

Hard Gingerbread, No. 2 . . 387 

Soft Gingerbread 387 

Sugar Gingerbread • • • . 388 



PA.OK 

Hot Water Gingerbread • • . 388 

Sour Milk Gingerbread . • . 388 

Ginger Snaps 888 

Ginger Drops ...... 388 

Soft Molasses Cookies • , . 389 

Cream Cakes 389 

ticlairs 389 

Cream for Eclairs . . . . . 389 

Kisses, or Cream Meringues . 389 

Macaroons • • 390 

Cocoanuts 390 

Chocolate Caramels . • . • 390 



FRUIT. 



Fruit 

To Serve Ripe Fruits .... 
Iced Fruits ....... 

Nuts and Raisins 

Tropical Snow 

Stewed and Baked Fruits . . 
Stewed Apple Sauce .... 

Compote of Apples .... 

Baked Apples ...... 

Baked Quinces ...... 

Baked Pears 

Steamed Rhubarb ..... 

Prunes 

Cranberries • 

Jellies 

Currant Jelly ...... 

Apple Jelly 

Quince Jelly ••••••• 

Grape Jelly 

Marmalade 

Preserved Peaches 

Preserved Damsons .... 

Preserved Quinces 

Preserved Strawberry Toma- 
toes 

Preserved Pineapple . . • • 
Preserved Strawberries • . . 
Preserved Cherries .... 

m 

Preserved Currants • • • • 
Preserved Raspberries • • • 



891 
392 
393 
393 
393 
393 
394 
894 
394 
394 
394 
395 
395 
395 
395 
396 
397 
397 
397 
397 
398 
398 
399 

399 
399 
400 
400 
400 
400 



Preserved Blackberries . • • 400 

Jams ... 400 

Grape Jam • 400 

Currant Jam 400 

Raspberry Jam ...... 400 

Blackberry Jam . . . • • 400 

Apple Jam 400 

Peach Jam 400 

Pear Jam .400 

Quince Jam • • 400 

Canning • • 401 

Canned Strawberries . • . . 402 

Canned Plums 402 

Canned Cherries . . • • • 402 

Canned Quinces • • • • • 402 

Canned Apples 402 

Canned Peaches • • • • • 402 

Canned Pears 402 

Canned Tomatoes • . • • • 402 

Sweet Pickles 403 

Tomato Sweet Pickle .... 403 

Peach Sweet Pickle . . . . 403 

Pear Sweet Pickle 403 

Melon Sweet Pickle . . . . 403 

Pineapple Sweet Pickle ... 403 

Tomato Catchup 404 

Piccallili, or Chow Chow . . 404 

Pickled Cucumbers • • • • 404 

Mixed Pickles 405 



526 



General Index. 



HINTS ON CARING AND COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 



PAGE 

Ventilation 407 

The Bed 407 

Cleanliness 408 

Conversation ...... 408 

Conveniences in a Sick-Room . 409 

Feeding the Patient .... 409 

Visitors in a Sick-Room . . . 410 

Diet for the First Condition . 410 

Flour Gruel 411 

Milk Porridge 411 

Barley Gruel 412 

Indian Meal Gruel 412 

Oatmeal Gruel 412 

Oatmeal Gruel, No. 2 ... 413 

Farina Gruel 413 

Cracker Gruel 413 

Egg Gruel 413 

Panada 414 

Oatmeal Mush for Invalids • . 414 

Indian Meal Mush 4l5 

Graham Mush ...... 415 

Rye Mush 415 

Gluten Mush 415 

Brain Food ....... 415 

Rice Water or Jelly • • . • 415 

Tapioca Jelly 416 

Irish Moss Jelly . • • • . 416 

Restorative Jelly . . . • . 416 

Mutton Broth 416 

Barley Soup ....... 417 

Calves' Foot Jelly or Broth . . 417 

Chicken Jelly or Broth • • • 418 

Beef Jelly or Broth .... 418 

Barley Water 418 

Gum Water 419 

Toast Water 419 

Crust Coffee 419 

Corn Tea and Rice Coffee . . 419 

Slippery-Elm Tea 419 

Acid Fruit Drinks 419 

Apple Tea 419 



PACT 

Jelly and Ice 420 

Tamarind Water 420 

Baked Lemon ...... 420 

Lemonade ...•••• 420 

Flaxseed Lemonade • . • . 420 

Irish Moss Lemonade . • • • 420 

Wine Whey 420 

Herb Teas 420 

Diet for another Condition . • 421 

Beef Essence and Tea • • , 422 

Broiled Beef Essence • • • • 42S 

Broiled Beef Tea 423 

Bottled Beef Essence . • • • 423 

Bottled Beef Tea 423 

Stewed Beef Essence .... 423 

Economical Beef Tea . . • . 424 

Dr. Mitchell's Beef Tea ... 424 

Raw Beef Sandwiches • • • 424 

Eggnog •••*•••• 424 

Portable Beef Tea 425 

Broiled Beef Pulp 425 

Egg Tea and Egg Coffee • . . 425 

Egg and Beef Tea ..... 425 

Dishes for Convalescence • • 425 

Broiling for the Invalid . • . 426 

Broiled Steak or Venison • • 426 

Broiled Steak, No. 2 .... 426 

Chicken Panada 426 

Chicken Custard 426 

Crackers and Orange Marma- 
lade 427 

Racahout des Arabes .... 427 

Labau 427 

Ash Cake 427 

Gluten Gems ....... 428 

Diet for Infants 428 

Prepared Flour ...... 428 

Diet for Children 429 

Milk for Children 430 

Diet for Invalids . . . . 431-433 



MISCELLANEOUS HINTS. 



To Chop Suet 435 

To Clean Currants 435 

To Stone Raisins 435 



To Core Apples ...... 435 

Egg Shells 435 

To Boil a Pudding 435 



General Index. 



527 



PAGE 

Meringues ....••• 436 

Moulds .436 

Candled Fruits and Nuts • • 436 
To Blanch Almonds .... 436 
Corned Meat ...... 436 



PAGE 

To Make Paper Boxes • • • 436 

Pastry Bag ....... 437 

Vanilla Sugar 437 

Canned Fruit Juices • • • • 438 



THE DINING-ROOM. 

The Arrangement of the Table, etc . . . . 439-443 

The Care of Kitchen Utensils 443-448 

AN OUTLINE OF STUDY FOR TEACHERS. 

Food: Its Uses, Classification, and Proportion ......... 449 

The Composition of the Human Body ........... 453 

Non-Combustible Compounds ............ 454 

Water and Salts 454 

Combustible Compounds . ........ 456 

Carbonaceous Foods ... ............ 456 

Starch 456 

Sugar 458 

Fats 459 

Gum, Mucilage, etc. ••••••••••••.. 460 

Nitrogenous Foods ••••. 460 

Milk 463 

Condiments •••• 464 

Proper Proportion of Food •••• 466 

Adaptation to Climate, etc ••• 467 

Nourishing and Stimulating Food .••••••••••• 470 

Digestion 471 

Absorption 475 

Nutrition 476 

Life and Motion 478 

Circulation of Water •••.. 478 

Circulation of Carbon ••• 479 

Circulation of Nitrogen 479 

Circulation of Mineral Matter ............. 481 

Suggestions to Teachers 483 

A Course op Study for Normal Pupils ........ 485 

Questions for Examination 486 

Topics and Illustrations for Lectures on Cookery . . . 490 

Books of Reference ', 494 

Course of Instruction at the Boston Cooking-School • . 495 

Explanation of Terms used in Cookery 503 

List of Utensils needed in a Cooking-School ...... 508 



1 



1 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



Acn>, Muriatic, 8L 
Albumen, 461. 
Almonds. 898. 

44 To Blanch, 436 
Apple Cake, 86 
" Charlotte, 848. 
" Johnny Cake, 91. 
" Meringue, 883. 
" Porcupine, 884. 
" Pudding, 833. 
44 Sandwich. 881. 
" Sauce, Baked, 894. 
44 " Stewed, 894. 
" Scalloped, 831. 
44 Snow. 846. 
«* Snowballs. 884. 
" Tapioca, 888. 
Apples, Baked, 894. 
" Compote of, 894. 
** To Core, 435. 
44 Ripe, To Serve, 891. 
Apricots. Frozen, 867. 

a la Neige, 886. 
Arrowroot, 467. 
Artichokes, 803. 
Ash Cake, 427. 
Asparagus, 297. 
Aspic Jelly, 266. 



Bacon, 246, 481. 
Baked Beans, 249. 
Baking, 18. 
Baking-Powder, 82. 
Bananas, 892. 
Bannock, 98. 
Barley, 109. 

Soup, 417. 
Water, 418. 
Bavarian Cream, 856, 856. 
Bean Porridge, 287. 
Beans, Baked, 249 

" Shelled, 298. 

" String, 298. 
Beating, 83. 
Bechamel Sauce. 189. 
Beef, 214-220. 

" Braised, 224. 

44 Broth, 418. 

44 Corned, 228, 486. 

44 Essence, 422-426. 



«« 

«i 
u 

«4 
«< 
<( 
tt 
<( 
«« 
U 
tt 
tt 
tt 



Beef, Flank, 227. 
44 Frizzled, 272. 
44 Jelly, 418. 
44 a. la Mode. 224. 
Olives, 270. 
Pulp, 426. 
Roast, 220-222. 
Rolls, 270. 
Roulette, 271. 
Sandwiches, 424. 
Sausages, 2j 1. 
Smoked, 272. 
Smothered, 227. 
Soup, 130, 131. 
Spiced, 228. 
Steak, 223. 
Stew, 225. 
Tea, 422-425. 
Beets, 306. 
Beverages, 111, 463. 
Birds, Roast, 263. 

14 in Potato Cases, 263. 
44 Veal or Mock. 276. 
Biscuit Glace*, 367. 
Biscuit, 68. 

" Baking-Powder, 83. 
Beaten, 96. 
Cream, 84. 
Maryland, 96. 
Oatmeal. 88. 
Raised, 68. 
Rye, 84. 
To Shape, 68. 
Soda, 83. 
Sour-Milk, 83. 
Wafer, 96. 
Whole-Wheat, 84. 
Bisque of Lobster, 152. 
Blanc-Mange, 841. 
Blanquette of Chicken, 268. 
Boiled Dinner, 229. 
Boiled Dressing, 310. 

44 " for Cold 

Boiling, 10. [Slaw, 811. 

Bombe Glac£, 367. 
Boning, 26. 
Bouillon, 131. 
Bow-Knots, 321. 
Brain Food, 415. 
Braising, 13. 
Bread, 86-79. 

34 



•t 
•« 
(< 
tt 
t< 
<< 
t« 
<« 

«< 
tt 



It 
«( 
(i 



Bread, Baking, 60. 
44 Brown, 67. 
44 Brown, 8our-Miik,68. 

44 Cake, 74. 

44 Chemical Changes in. 

47. 
44 Crumbs, 75. 
44 Fermented, 44. 
44 Importance of, 36. 
44 Kneading, 54. 
44 Loaves, 68. 

Meaning of, 36. 

Milk, 64. 

Milk, with a Sponge 

44 Mixing, 52. 

44 Potatoes in, 63. 

44 Rye, 67. 

44 Sauce, 193. 

44 Sauted, 76. 

44 Shortening in, 53. 

44 Squash, 66. 

44 Stale, 75. 

44 Steamed, 76. 

434 Sugar in, 53. 

44 Temperature for, 66 

44 Thirded, 67. 

44 Time for Raisins, 66. 

44 Unfermented, 48. 

44 Water, 68. 

44 Water, with a 
Sponge, 66. 

44 Whole-Wheat, 66. 

44 Yeast, 49. 
Brewis, 77. 
Broiled Meat Cakes, 22a 

Steak, 223. 
Broiling, 21, 426. 
Broth, Chicken, 142. 

44 Mutton, 141. 

44 Scotch, 140. 
Buckwheat, 109. 

Cakes, 101. 
Bunns, 74. 
Butyric Acid, 469. 

Cabbage, 302. 

44 Salad, 811. 
Cafe Parfait, 866. 
Cake. 869-383. 
44 Angel, 374. 



530 



Alphabetical Index. 



Cake, Baking, 370. * 

44 Berwick Sponge, 875. 

" Bread, 74. 

" Buttercup, 881. 

" Butter Mixtures, 872. 

" for Children, 875. 

" Cider V9. 

44 Coffee, 882. 

" Coloring for, 881. 

" Cornstarch, 880. 

14 for Cream Pies, 874. 

44 Currant, 878. 

44 Date, 378. 

" Dream, 380. 

41 Feather, 376. 

*• Fruit, 875, 38a 

" Gold, 879. 

" Harlequin, 381. 

" Jelly, 376, 381. 
44 " Roll, 876. 

" Lady Fingers, 874. 

" Leopard, 378. 

Loaf, 74. 

" Macdonald, 879. 

u Marble, 880. 

44 Mother's, 378. 

44 Nut, 378. 

44 One-Egg, 376 

44 Orange, 377. 



u 



it 



it 
It 
•I 
II 
(I 
•I 
«« 



<l 
<< 
(I 



it 



Cream. 377. 
«• Park Street, 376. 
•« Plum, 383. 
44 Pound, 383. 
" Raised Bread, 74. 
44 Ribbon, 382. 
," Savoy, 374. 
Silver, 379. 
Snow, 380. 
Spice, 382. 
Sponge, 374. 

44 Drops, 874. 
" Mixing, 372. 
44 for Children, 
375. 
44 " with Fruit, 

875. 
" Sunshine. 375. 
" Walnut, 378. 
Watermelon, 380. 
Wedding, 383. 
White Mountain, 378. 
Cakes, Apple, 87. 
" " Johnny, 91. 
" Buckwheat. 101. 
44 Corn, 91-93. 
Cream, 389. 
Dutch Apple, 86. 
Flannel, 99. 
Griddle, 99-102. 
Hoe, 93 
Hominy, 92. 
Huckleberry, 87. 
a la Polonaise, 82L 
Short, 84. 
Tea, 89. 
Calf's Head, 241. 

44 Minced, 242. 
Heart, 241. 
Liver, Braised, 241. 



u 
c < 
<< 
«« 

it 
it 
« 
ii 
u 
ii 



ii 

 c 

<« 



<( 



II 



Calf's Liver, Ragout of, 277. 
Calves'-Foot Broth or Jelly, 

418. 
Canapees, 283. 
Candied Fruit, 486. 
Canning Fruit, 401, 406. 

44 " Juicer 488. 

Caper Sauce, 188. 
Capers, 289'. 
Caramel, 134. 

" Custard, 848, 344. 
Caramels, 890. 
Carving Beef, 220, 221. 
" Fish, 164. 
" Poultry, 255. 
Cassava, 457. 
Casserole of Fish, 170. 

of Mock Sweet- 
breads, 274. 
of Rice and Meat, 
274. 

Cauliflower, 301. 
Celery, 802, 812. 

" Sauce, 189 
Cellulose, 460. 
Chantilly Basket, 860. 
Charlotte Apple, 348. 
Banana, 355. 
Fruit, 848. 
Orange, 348. 
Russe, 354. 
Strawberry, 355. 
Chartreuse of Chicken, 269. 

11 of Fish, 170. 
Cheats, 106. 
Cheese Souffle, 282. 
" Sour-Milk, 283. 
" Straws, 322. 
Chestnut Sauce, 192. 

" Stuffing, 258 
Chicken, 251. 

" Blanquette of, 268. 
" To Bone, 27. 
Boned, 265. 
Broiled, 260. 
Broiled Fillets of, 
260. 
44 Chartreuse, 269. 
Croquettes,. 279. 



ii 
ii 
i< 



«i 
ii 
ii 
ii 
a 



ii 
ii 
ii 



Curry, 259. 
~ 1,426. 



ii 
ii 

" Custard 
44 Devilled, 260. 
41 Forced with Oys- 
ters, 286. 

Fricassee, 258. 

Fried, 260. 

Panada, 426. 

Pie, 268. 

Pilau, 268. 

Pressed, 267. 

Roast, 257. 

Salad, 314. 

Scalloped, 268. 

Smothered, 288. 

Stew, 258. 

Stuffing for Boned. 
266. 

" Terrapin, 269. 
Chocolate, 116-118. 



ii 

!< 
<( 
Ii 
II 
it 
It 
If 
II 
II 
If 
II 



If 
II 



Chocolate, Caramels, 390. 
Chow Chow, 404. 
Chowder, Clam, 156. 
Corn, 157. 
Fish, 155. 
Lobster,. 157. 
Cin« 106. 
Clam Bake, 180. 
" Chowder, 156. 
" Croquettes, 280. 
" Soup, 164. 
Clams, 179. 

" Puree of, 168. 
Scalloped, 180. 
Steamed, 179. 
Coagulation, 461. 
Coal Fire, 8-6. 
Cochineal Coloring, 381 
Cocoa, 118. 
Cocoanut Cakes, 890. 

44 Cream, 377, 37a. 
Coffee, 112. 
" Black, 116. 
44 Common Pot, 115. 
44 Crust, 419. 
11 Egg, 115u 
Filtered, 116. 
Rice, 419. 
Roasting, lia 
11 Serving. 116. 
11 Steamed, 115. 
" Vienna, 116. 
Composition of the Human 

Body, 453. 
Condiments, 464. 
Convalescence. Dishes for. 

426. 
Cookery, 1, 2. 
Cookies, 385, 886. 
Cooking, Object in, 452. 

" Time Tables for, 24. 
Corn, 106-110. 
" and Beans, 290. 
44 Cakes, 90, 101. 

Maryland, 92. 
Spider, 92. 
Sponge, 91. 
44 Thin. 91. 
" Chowder, 167. 
" Hulled, 286. 
« Meal,. 109. 
44 " Griddle-Cakes. 

100. 
44 " Mush, 109. 
Puns, 93. 
Slappers, 101. 
Waffles, 99. 



ii 
ii 
it 



ii 
ii 



ii 
ii 

it it 

If 



if 
if 
fi 



If 
Ii 
U 



41 Soup, 160. 
" Sweet, 299. 



ii 



ii 



Fritters, 299. 
Cost of Fish, 174. 

11 of Food, 85. 

" of Meat, 213. 
Crab Salad, 184. 
Crabs, 183. 

44 Boiled, 184. 

44 Devilled, 184. 

44 Scalloped, 184. 

44 Soft-Shell, 184. 



Alphabetical Index. 



531 



cc 



<« 



Crackers a la Creme, 283. 
" Crisped, 136. 
44 and Orange Mar- 
malade, 427. 
Cranberries, 395. 
Cream, 463. 

" Bavarian, 356. 
44 Cakes, 389. 
" Cocoanut and Or- 
ange, 377. 
Cocoanut and Rai- 
sin, 378. 
for Cream Cakes, 
389. 

" for Cream Pies, 376. 
" Glace% 365. 
44 Imperial, 852. 
44 Italian, 346. 
44 Norfolk, 357. 
44 Sauce, 190. 
* ' Sauce for Croquettes 

and Patties, 278. 
44 Spanish, 346. 
" Tapioca, 345. 
" Velvet, 349. 
" Whipped, 352. 
44 Whips, 353. 
Cream of Tartar, 81. 
Creme Bipl ornate, 358. 

" FrSte, 282. 
Crisps, 95. 
Croquettes, 277. 

Chicken. 279. 
" Clam, 280. 

Fish, 280. 
" Hominy, 282. 

" Lobster, 280. 

44 Macaroni, 281. 

«• Oyster, 279. 

" Oyster Plant, 

280. 
" Potato, 280. 

44 Rice, 281. 

" Salsify, 280. 
44 Sauce for, 278. 

" . Shaping, 278. 
44 Sweetbread, 

279 
44 Turkish, 281. 

44 Veal, 279. 

Croutons, 136. 
Crullers, 105. 
Crumbs, Bread, 75. 
Cucumbers, 313. 
Cumberland Sauce, 192. 
Cupid's Wells, 320. 
Currant Jelly, 396. 

" Sauce, 191. 
Currants, 392. 

*• Dried, To Clean, 
435. 
Curry Sauce, 190. 
Custards, 341. 

" Almond. 343. 
" Baked, 344. 
" Boiled, 342. 
" Candied Fruit. 

348. 
" Caramel, 844. 



Custards, Caramel, Soft, 343. 

" Chocolate, 343. 

44 Cocoanut, 343. 

44 Macaroon, 343. 

" Orange, 343. 

" Quaking, 346. 
Cutting and Folding, 34. 



Dabs, 93. 

Daubing, 25. 

Diet for the Bilious, 432. 

" for Children, 429. 

" for the Constipated, 
433. 

" for the Consumptive, 
433. 

•• for the Corpulent, 432. 

44 for the Diabetic, 432. 

44 for the Dyspeptic, 432. 

44 for the Invalid, 410, 
422, 431. 

" for the Young, 429. 
Diets, National, 468. 
Digester, Soup, 122. 
Digestion, 471. 
Dining-Room, 439. 
Dinner-Table, 440. 
Dish-Washing, 442-448. 
Dodgers, 93. 
Dominoes, 379. 
Dough, 52-60. 
Doughnuts, 104. 

Raised, 74. 
14 Sour-Milk, 104. 

Drawn Butter, 187, 189. 
Dried Crumbs, 75. 
Drop Cakes, Fried, 102. 

44 " Huckleberry. 
87. 
Duck, Braised, 261. 

44 Mock, 284. 

44 Roast, 261. 
Dumplings, Apple, 382. 

for Stew, 227. 
Dutch Apple Cake, 86. 



Eclairs, 389. 
Egg Balls, 136. 
44 Baskets, 208. 
" and Bread Crumbing, 

19. 
" Salad, 209. 
" Sauce, 188. 
" Shells, 436. 
44 Toast, 76. 
44 Vermicelli, 206. 
Eggs, 197-209. 

4? Baked, 203, 204. 

11 Boiled, 199. 

" en Coquille, 204. 

" a la Creme, 208. 

44 Curried, 203. 
, " Devilled, 209. 

44 Dropped, 199. 

" Ham and, 200. 

44 for Invalids, 431. 

44 and Minced Meat, 204. 



Eggs in a Nest, 209. 

44 Poached. 199. 

44 44 in Tomato, 

200. 

44 Scalloped. 207. 

" Scotch, 207. 

44 Scrambled, 200. 

44 Spanish, 200. 

" Stuffed, 206. 
Eggnog, 424. 
Egg Plant, 802. 
44 «■ Fritters, 303. 
Entries, 265. 
Espagnole Sauce, 193. 
Etiquette, 441. 



Fanchonnettes, 327. 
Farina, 413. 
Fat, To Clarify, 18. 
44 for Frying. 16. 

44 in Soup, 123. 
Fats, 459. 

Fermentation, 44, 461. 
Fillet of Beef, 222. 

44 of Fish, 161. 
Fire, 8, 6. 
Fish, 159-174. 

44 Baked, 162-165. • 

44 ' 4 in Crusts, 174. 

" Balls, 171. 

44 Boiled, 166, 167. 

44 To Bone, 161. 

44 Broiled, 161. 

44 Casserole of, 170. 

44 Chartreuse of, 170 

44 Chowder, 156. 

44 To Clean, 160. 

44 au Court Bouillon, 
167. 

44 Creamed, 170. 

44 a la Creme, 168. 

" Crimped, 170. 

44 Curried, 170. 

44 Cost of, 174. 

44 Fillets of, 161. 

44 Fried, 165. 

44 Hash, 172. 

44 in Potato Border. 
169. 

44 Potted, 171. 

44 Roes, Fried, 173. 

" " Scalloped, 173. 

44 Salad, 314. 

" Salt, Creamed, 173 

41 44 Dinner, 173. 

44 4I To Prepare, 172 

44 " Scorched, 17a 

*' Sauce for, 190. 

44 Sauces, 187-196. 

44 Scalloped, 169. 

44 Shell, 175-186. 

44 To Skin, 160. 

44 Souffle, 172. 

44 Spiced. 170. 

44 Stewed, 168. 

44 Stuffing for, 163. 

44 Warmed-over, 169. 
Flannel Cakes, 99. 



532 



Alphabetical Index. 




Flemish Sauce, 192. 
Floating Island, 343. 
Flour, Haxall, 40. 

44 Health Food Co., 42. 
" Minnesota, 41. 
•• Pastry, 40. 
" Prepared, 428. 
44 St. Louis, 39. 
•« Tests of Good, 42. 
" Thickening for 
Soups, etc., 136. 
Flummery, 843. 
Folding, Cutting and, 34. 
Food, 449-482. 

" Adaptation of, 467. 

" Albuminous, 461. 

«* Carbonaceous, 456. 

" Classification of, 454. 

" Liquid, 463. 

" Nitrogenous, 460. 

" Nourishing, 470. 

" Stimulating, 470. 

" Tables of Cost of, 35, 
174, 213. 

u Uses of, 450. 
Force-Meat Balls, 137. 
Forefather's Dinner, 284 
Fowl, Braised, 258. 
Fleering, 361. 
French Dressing, 310. 
French Pancakes, 102. 
Friar's Omelet, 334. 
Fricadilloes, 271 
Fricasseeing, 12. 
Fritters, Apple, 107. 
41 Batter, 106. 

44 Clam, 107. 

" Italian, 77. 
" Oyster. 107. 

" Vegetable, 107. 
Frizzled Beef, 272. 
Frosting, 884. 
Fruit, 391-408. . 

" Baked, 393. 

44 Candied, 436. 

11 Canned, 401. 

44 " Juice of, 488 

" Drinks, 419. 

14 Frozen. 867. 

44 Iced, 398. 

<( Jams, 400. 

44 Preserved, 898. 

44 Ripe, 891. 

44 Serving of, 891. 

44 Stewed, 893. 
Frying, 14. 
Fuel, 4. 

Game, 251, 431. 

44 To Choose, 251. 

44 To Clean and Truss, 
252. 

44 Salmis of, 270. 
GUeau de Princess Louise, 
860. 

44 St. Honor6, 359. 
Gelatine, 123, 345. 462. 
Gems, Gluten, 428. 

44 Graham, 95 



Gems, Bye, 94. 

44 Wheat, 95. 
Giblets, 254. 
Ginger, 465. 
Gingerbread, 886-389. 
Ginger Snaps, 388. 
Glaze, 135. 
Glucose, 458. 
Gluten, 38, 97. 

44 Mush, 415. 
Glycerine, 459. 
Goose, Roast, 261. 
Graham Flour, 42. 
44 Wafers, 96. 
44 Waffles, 99. 
Grapes, 392. 
Gravy, 221, 266. 
Greens, 297. 
Griddle-Cakes, 99-102. 
44 " Bread, 100. 
44 " To Cook, 99. 
44 4 ' Corn Meal, 

100. 
44 " Graham, 101. 
44 " Huckleberry, 
100. 
44 Pease, 101. 
44 " Rice or Hom- 
iny, 100. 
44 " Squash, 102. 
Groats, 108. 
Grouse, 262. 
Gruel, Arrowroot. 411. 
44 Barley, 412. 
44 Cornstarch, 411. 
44 Cracker. 413. 
44 Egg, 418. 
44 Farina, 413. 
44 Flour, 411. 
14 Indian Meal. 412. 
44 Oatmeal, 412. 
44 Rice Flour, 411. 
Gum, 460. 
44 Water, 419. 



Halibut, 165. 
Ham and Eggs, 200. 

u Boiled, 247. 

" Broiled. 247. 

44 Fried, 247. 

44 To Serve Cold, 247. 
Hamburgh Steak, 224. 
Hash, 273. 

44 Vegetable, 230. 
Hasty Pudding, 110. 
Head Cheese, 248. 
Henriettas, 106. 
Herb Tea, 420. 
Herbs, Mixed, 32. 
Hermits, 886. 
Hoe Cake, 93. 
Hollandaise Sauce, 194. 
Hominy, 110. 

44 Cakes, 92. 
44 Croquettes, 282. 
44 Drop-Cakes, 94. 
44 Griddle-Cakes, 100 
Horseradish Sauce. 195. 



Huckleberry Cakes, 87, 100 
Huitres au Lit, 178. 
Hulled Corn, 286. 



Icb-Cream, 361-867. 

44 Almond, 865. 

44 Baked Apple, 

866. 



If 
<4 



Banana, 864. 
Brown Bread, 

864. 
Caramel, 364. 
Chocolate, 864. 
Cocoanut, 865. 
Coffee, 364. 
Condensed Milk. 

865. 
To Freeze, 361. 
Fruit, 865. 
Glace, 866. 
Lemon, 864. 
Macaroon, 365. 
To Mould, 362. 
Neapolitan, 36& 
Philadelphia. 

862. 
Pineapple, 864. 
Pistachio, 866. 
Strawberry, 864. 
Tutti Frutti, 

865. 
Vanilla, 864. 
Walnut, 365. 
Indian Corn, 108, 110. 
Invalid, Cookery for the, 
407. 
41 Diet for the, 410, 
422,431. 
Irish Moss, 291. 
44 " Blanc-Mange. 
341. "* 
44 « Jelly, 416. 
44 44 Lemonade, 420. 
Isinglass, 462. 



« 
«i 
«< 
tt 

a 

tt 
it 
u 

M 
it 
ft 
It 
M 

It 

f< 
if 
It 

<( 
t< 



Jams, 400. 
44 Apple, 400. 
44 Blackberry, 400. 
44 Currant, 400. 
44 Grape, 400. 
44 Peach, 400. 
44 Pear, 400. 
44 Quince, 400. 
44 Raspberry, 400. 
Jellies, Fruit, 395. 

Apple, 397. 
Currant, 896 
Grape, 397. 
Quince, 397. 
Gelatine, 849. 
44 Italian, 350. 
44 Lemon, 850. 
" " Orange, 85a 
(< " Restorative, 

416. 
" « Wine, 849 
Jelly, Calves'-Foot, 417. 



n 
it 
it 
tt 
it 
i< 

IC 



ft 
t< 
II 
II 



Alphabetical hidex. 



533 



Jelly and Ice, 420. 

" Irish Mom, 416. 

•« Rice, 415. 

" Tapioca, 416. 
Johnny Cake, 91. 
Jumbles, 886. 



Kedgeree, 170. 
Kidneys, 231 
Kisses, 388. 
Kitchen Utensils, 44a 
Kneading Dough, 54. 



Lab an, 427. 

Lactic Acid, 463, 471-475. 

" Fermentation, 44. 
Lactose, 458. 
Lamb, 232. 

" Boiled, 234. 
" Chops, 236. 
*' Fricassee, 237. 
«« Loin of, 233. 
" Roasted, 233. 
" Saddle of, 233. 
Lamb's Liver, Ragout of, 
277. 
11 Tongues, 238. 
Lard, To Try out, 249. 
Larding, 25. 
Lemon, Baked, 420. 

*< Sauce for Fowl, 188 
" Sauce for Pudding, 

328. 
'« Syrup. 98. 
Lemonade, 420. 

" Flaxseed, 420. 
" Irish Moss, 420. 
Lettuce, 312. 
Liver, 231. 
" Calf s, Braised, 241. 
" Potted, 277. 
" Ragout of, 277. 
Lobster, Bisque of, 152. 
" Chowder, 157. 
" Creamed, 183. 
" Croquettes, 280. 
44 * Curried, 183. 
'« Cutlets, 280. 
44 Devilled, 183. 
44 Plain, 182. 
,( Salad, 315. 
" Sauce, 188. 
" Scalloped, 183. 
44 Soup, 152. 16a 
44 Stewed. 182. 
Lobsters, 181-183. 

44 To Choose, 181. 
44 To Open, 182. 



Macaroni, 308. 

«• with Cheese, 809. 

4 « withTomato,309. 
Macaroons, 390. 
Macedoine of Fruits, 350. 
Mackerel, 172. 
Madelines, 37a 



MAitre d'Hdtel Butter, 195, 
Mandioc, 457. [196. 

Margarine, 459. 
Marmalade, 897. 
Maryland Biscuit, 96. 

44 Corn Cakes, 92. 
Mayonnaise Dressing, 311. 
" Tartare Dressing, 812. 
Measures, Weights and, 30. 
Measuring, 28. 
Meat, 210-213. 

44 Corned, 486. 

44 Cost of, 213. 

•« Pie, 272. 

44 Porcupine, 272. 

44 Sauces, 187. 

44 Souffle, 276. 
Melons, 392. 
Meringues, 889, 435. 
Milk, 468. 

" for Children, 430. 
Mint Sauce, 196. 
Miscellaneous Hints, 435. 
Mixed Herbs, 32. 

" Spice Salt, 32. 

44 Spices, 82. 
Mixing, 38. 



Moulds, 486. 
Mucilage. 460. 
Muffins, 87-104. 

44 Corn, 90. 

44 " and Rice, 92. 

" Cream, 89. 

" Flour, 87. 

44 Fried, 103. 

44 Granulated Wheat, 
89. 

44 Rye, 90. 
Muriatic Acid, 81. 
Mush, Brain Food, 415. 

" Corn Meal, 415. 

44 Gluten, 415. 

44 Graham, 415. 

" Oatmeal, 415. 

44 Rye, 415. 
Mushes, 109, 415. 
Mushroom Sauce, 191. 
Mushrooms, 291, 303. 
Mustard, 465. 

44 Sauce, 188. 
Mutton, 282. 

44 Boiled, 234. 

44 Boued, 26. 

" Braised, 236. 

44 Broth, 141. 

44 Broth for Invalids, 
416. 

44 Carry of, 238. 

44 Cutlets, Breaded, 
236. 

44 Duck, 235. 

44 Forequarter, 234. 

44 Fricassee, 237. 

44 Ragout of, 238. 

44 Roasted, 233. 

41 Saddle or Loin of, 
233 

" Scalloped, 274. 

•• Stew for Two, 237. 



Nitrogen, 461. 
Norfolk Cream, 357. 
Nuts, 898. 

44 To Blanch, 436. 

44 Candied, 436. 



Oatmeal, 108. 

44 Biscuit, 88. 

44 for Children, 414 

44 Gruel, 413. 

44 Mush, 109. 
Oil, Olive, 309. 
Oils, 459. 
44 Fixed, 460. 
44 Volatile, 460. 
Olelne, 459. 
Olive Oil, 809. 

" Sauce, 192. 
Olives, Beef, 270. 
Omelets, 200-208. 

" Cheese, 201. 

44 Chicken, 201. 

44 Clam, 201. 

44 Corn, 201. 

44 Creamy. 202. 

44 Fancy, 201 

44 Ham, 201. 

44 Jelly, 202. 

44 Mushroom, 201. 

44 Orange, 202. 

44 Oyster, 201. 

44 Parsley, 201. 

44 Shrimp, 201. 

44 Souffle, 203. 

44 Sweet, 202. 

44 Tomato, 201 

44 Veal, 201. 



Onion Sauce, 193. 
Onions, 301, 431. 

44 Baked, 301. 

44 Boiled, 301. 

44 Creamed, 801. 

" Scalloped, 301. 
Orange Baskets, 351. 

44 Charlotte, 810. 

44 Jelly, 350. 

44 Sections, 362. 
Oranges, 392. 
Oyster Plant, 306. 

44 Sauce, 188. 

44 Soup, 153. 

" Stew, 154. 

44 Stuffing. 16U 
Oysters, 175-179. 

44 Broiled, 179. 

44 en Coquille, 17* 

44 Creamed, 177. 

44 Croquettes, 279. 

44 Fricasseed, 177. 

44 Fried, 178. 

44 on Ice, 176. 

44 Mock, 299. 

44 with Mushrooms. 
178. 

44 Parboiled, 176. 

44 Pickled, 179. 



i 



534 



Alphabetical Index. 



Oysters, To Prepare for 
Cooking, 176. 

" Raw, 175. 

" Roasted, 176. 

" Salad, 314. 

" Sauted, 179. 

" Scalloped, 177. 

" Smothered, 176. 
Ozmasome, 128. 



Pan Broiling, 23. 
Panada, 414. 

" Chicken, 426. 
Pancakes, French, 102. 
Pannikins, 206. 
Paper Boxes, 436. 
Parker House Rolls, 70. 
Parsley. 119. 

" Sauce, 188. 
Parsnip Fritters, 805. 
Parsnips, 305. 
Paste Cream, 823. 
" for one Pie, 823. 
" for Patties, 819. 
" Plain, 324. 
44 Puff, 816-319. 
44 for Tarts, 319. 
Pastry Bag, 437. 

" Tubes, 487. 
Peaches, 392. 

" Pickled, 403. 
44 Preserved, 398. 
Peanut Sauce, 193. 
Pearlash, 80. 
Pears, 894. 

" Pickled, 403. 
Peas, Green, 296. 

44 Puree of, 149, 150. 
Pease Griddle-Cakes, 101. 
Pectose, 896, 460. 
Pepper, 431. 465. 
Piccalilli, 404. 
Pickles, 403-405. 

" Cucumber, 404. 
" Mixed, 405. 
" Mustard, 406. 
" Sweet, 408. 
44 ** Cucumber, 

403. 
44 " Melon, 403. 

" " Peach, 408. 

" " Pear, 408. 

44 " Pineapple, 

403. 
" " Tomato, 403. 

44 " Watermelon, 

403. 
Pie, Apple, 325. 
" Berry, 326. 
44 Chess, 324. 
44 Chicken, 268. 
41 Custard, 325. 
44 Eccles, 326. 
44 Lemon. 324. 
44 Meat, 272. 
41 Mince, 326. 
44 " Plain, 326. 
44 Paste for one, 828. 



Pie, To Roll Paste for, 322. 
44 Rhubarb. 325. 
44 Squash, 826. 
Pies, 822-326. 
Pig, Roast, 246. 
Pigeons, Braised, 262. 
" To Choose. 252. 
14 Potted, 262. 
44 Stuffed with Pan- 
ley, 262. 
Pigs in Blankets, 178. 
Pilaf, Turkish, 283. 
Pilau, Chicken, 268. 
Pineapples, 392, 399. 
Pistachio Ice-Cream, 365. 
Plaits, 322. 
Plombiere, 366. 
Pokeberry Syrup, 382. 
Polonaise Cakes, 321. 
Pop-overs, 94. 
Porcupine of Meat, 272. 
Pork, 245-250. 
44 and Beans, 249. 
44 Chops, 246. 
44 Roast, 246. 
44 Salt 246. 
Porridge, Bean, 287. 

44 Milk and Plum, 
411. 
Port Wine Jelly, 416. 
44 " Sauce, 193. 
Pot Roast, 227. 
Potage a la Reine, 144, 145. 
Potash, 80. 
Potato Balls, 294. 
44 Border, 275. 
44 Croquettes, 280. 
44 Puff, 294 
" Salad, 313. 
44 Soup, 146. 
44 Yeast, 62. 
Potatoes, Baked, 295. 
Boiled, 298. 
in Bread, 53. 
Creamed, 294. 
Franconia, 295. 
French, 295. 
Fried, 295. 

44 Raw, 296. 
on Half Shell, 295. 
Lyonnaise, 294. 
Macaroni, 296. 
a la Maitre 

d'Hotel, 295. 
Mashed, 294. 
a la Nelge, 293. 
Parisienne, 296. 
Rice, 293. 
Saratoga, 296. 
44 Stuffed, 296. 
44 Sweet, 296. 
44 " Baked,296. 

Potting, 277. 
Poultry, 251-264. 

44 To Carve, 255. 
44 To Choose, 251. 
44 To Clean, 252 

To Dre«8 for Broil- 
ing, 255. 



u 

tl 
tt 
tl 
tt 
it 
it 
« 
tt 
tt 

tt 

a 

tt 
<( 
<< 



u 



tt 
tt 



tt 
tt 
tt 
it 
tt 
tt 
tt 
tt 
tt 



Poultry, To Dress for Fries* 
see, 263. 
44 To Dress for Roast- 
ing, 253. 
Gravy for, 256. 
To Stuff and Truss, 
254. 
Prawns, 184. 
Preserves, 398. 

Cherries, 400. 
Currants, 400. 
Damsons, 398. 
Peaches, 396. 
Pineapples, 399. 
Quinces, 399. 
Raspberries, 400. 
Strawberries, 400. 
Strawberry 
Tomatoes, 399. 
Proportions, Table of, 31. 
Prunes, 396. 

Pudding, Apple Meringue, 
333. 
44 Apple Porcupine. 

334. 
44 Apple Snowballs, 

44 Apple Tapioca, 

44 Apricot, 335. 
44 Bird's-Nest. 333. 
44 Boiled in a Cloth, 

435. 
44 Bread, 337. 
44 Bread and Fruit, 

332 
44 Cabinet, 339. 
Carrot, 332. 
Chocolate, 341. 
Christmas. 340. 
Cottage, 33L 
Danish, 342. 
Delicate, 344 
Dutch Apple, 331 
Eve's, 333. 
French Bread, 
338. 
44 Frozen. 366. 
44 Fruit, 342. 
44 Fruit, Steamed, 

339. 
14 Fruit Tapioca, 

342. 
44 Gelatine, 846. 
41 Indian Corn Meal, 

286,288,338. 
44 Nesselrode, 366 
44 Plain Plum, 337. 
44 Poor Man's, 335. 
Prune, 357 
Queen of, 838 
Rice, 335. 
Rice and Fruit, 
336. 
" Royal Diplomatic. 

358. 
44 Sauces', 328. 

Scalloped Apple 
881. 



tt 
n 
tt 
tt 
tt 
tt 
tt 
tt 



t. 
tt 
tt 
*t 



tt 



Alphabetical Index. 



535 



Pudding, Snow, 347. 
44 Sponge, 887. 
" Steamed Apple, 

832. 
" Suet and Fruit, 

339. 
" Thanksgiving 
Plum, 341. 
" Tipsy, 343. 
44 Whole-Wheat, 

338. 
44 Yorkshire, 221. 
Puddings, 331-360. 
Purge of Beans, 148. 
44 of Celery, 147. 
" of Clams, 168. 
" of Fish, 162. 
" of Green Corn, 160. 
" of Lobster, 162. 
" of Peas, Green, 160. 
" " «' Split, 149. 
" of Potatoes, 146. 
14 of Salmon, 152. 
44 of Vegetables, 161. 
Putrefaction, 462. 

Quail, 263. 

Quinces, 394, 397, 899. 

Rasbits, 264. 
Racahout des Arabes, 427. 
Ragout of Cooked Meat, 278. 
Raisins, 898. 

To Stone, 486. 
Raspberries, 892. 
Rechauffe*, Meat, 266. 
Reptiles, 186. 
Rhubarb, 396. 
Rice, 109. 

44 Boiled, 306. 

44 with Cheese. 807. 

" Croquettes, 281. 

" Crusts, 94. 

44 Drop-Cakes, 94. 

" Griddle-Cakes, 100. 

" Jelly or Water, 416. 

44 Salmon, 307. 

" Savory, 307. 

" Steamed, 307. 
Rissoles, 821. 
Rfo a l'Imperatrice, 866. 
Roasting, 20. 
Rolls, 68. 

44 Braided, 71. 

" Cleft, 70. 

" Crescents, 71. 

44 Cross, 70. 

" Finger, 70. 

" French. 71. 

44 Imperial, 69. 

44 Letter, 70. 

44 Parker House, 70. 

M Pocket-Book, 70. 

44 Swedish, 72. 

" Twin, 70. 

44 Vienna, 71. 

" White Mountain, 72. 
Husks, 73. 

" Dried, 74. 



Rye, 109. 
" Bread, 67. 
44 Gems, 94. 
" Meal, 109. 
" Muffins, 90. 
" " Fried, 104. 
44 Mush, 416. 

Sago. 467. 
Salads. 809-315. 

11 Celery, 312. 

44 Chicken, 314. 

44 Crab, 184. 

44 Cucumber, 812. 

44 Egg, 209, 314. 

44 Fish, 814 

44 Lettuce, 312. 

44 Lobster, 815. 

44 Oyster, 814. 

44 Potato, 313. 

44 8almon, 816. 

44 Sandwiches, 316. 

44 Shrimp, 184. 

44 Tomato, 818. 
Saleratus, 80. 
Sally Lunn, 87, 88. 
Salmis of Game, 270. 
Salmon, Puree of, 152. 

44 Salad, 316. 
Salsify, 280, 806. 
Salt, 466. 

44 Mixed, 82. 
Salts, Mineral, 465. 
Sandwiches, 2v8. 

44 Raw Beef, 421 
44 Salad, 315. 
44 Sardine. 273. 
Sardine Canapees, 283. 

44 Sandwiches, 278. 
Sauces, Meat and Fish, 187- 
196. 

44 Acid, 188. 

44 Bechamel, 189. 

44 Brain, 242. 

44 Bread, 193. 

44 Brown, 191. 

44 Caper, 188. 

41 Celery, 189." 

44 Chestnut, 192. 

44 Cream, 190. 

44 Cumberland, 192. 

44 Currant Jelly, 191. 

44 Curry, 190. 

44 Drawn Butter, 187. 

44 Drawn Butter, Rich- 
er, 189. 

44 Egg, 188. 

44 Espagnole, 193. 

44 Fish, 190. 

44 for Fishballs, 196. 

44 Flemish, 192. 

44 Hollandaise, 194. 

44 Horseradish, 1P6. 

44 a la Italienne, 192. 

41 Lemon, 188. 

44 Lobster, 188. 

44 Maitre d'H&tel, 195, 
196. 

44 Mint," 196. 



Sauces, Mushroom, 191. 
44 Mustard, 188. 

Olive, 192. 

Oyster, 188. 

Parsley, 188. 

Peanut, 198. 

Piquante, 189. 

Poirrade, 191. 

Port Wine, 193. 

Robert, 191. 

Shrimp, 188. 

Soubise, 198. 

Tartar, 194, 196. 

Tartare, 195. 

Tomato. 198, 194 

White, 189. 
Sauces, Pudding, 328-330 
44 Apricot. 829. 

Caramel, 380. 

Creamy, 329. 

Foamy, 329. 

Hard, 328. 

Lemon, 828. 

Molasses, 830. 

Plain, 880. 

Snowdrift, 828. 

Whipped Cream 

Wine, 880. 
Yellow, 380. 



it 
« 
(< 
tt 
ct 
ti 
a 
a 
i« 
it 
<t 

it 



(< 
it 
*i 
«< 
<t 
«< 
«t 
it 
ti 

tt 
n 



Sausages, 248. 
Sautelng, 17. 



Ii 


ft 


ti 


l« 


Ii 


ll 


tl 


II 



fl 



it 



Scallops, 181. 
Scotch Broth. 140. 

44 Eggs, 207. 
Seasoning for Soup, 126. 
Shells, 117. 
Sherbets, 868. 

44 Lemon, 868. 
44 Orange, 868. 
44 Pineapple, 868. 
44 Raspberry, 868. 
44 Strawberry, 868. 
Short Cakes, 84-86. 
44 44 Apricot, 85. 
Orange, 86. 
Peach, 85. 
Rye, 86. 
Strawberry, 85. 
Whole- Wheat, 
86. 

Shrimps en Coquille, 184- 
44 Salad, 184. 
44 Sauce, 188. 
44 Scalloped, 184. 
Sick-Room Cookery, 407 i 

434. 
Soda, 80. 
44 Biscuit, 83. 
44 in Yeast Bread, 57. 
Soubise Sauce, 193. 
Souffle Cheese, 282. 

44 Meat, 276. 
Soup, 119-186. 
44 Amber, 181. 
44 Barley, 133. 
44 Black Bean, 148 
44 Brown, 130. 
44 Carrot, 184. 



1 



536 



Alphabetical Index. 



Boup, Celery, 147. 
Chicken, 144. 
Clam, 164. 
Clear, 181. 
Consomml, 181. 
Corn, 150. 
Crecy, 184. 
Digester, 122. 
Fish, 152. 
Green Corn, 150. 
Green Pea, 150. 
Green Turtle, 186. 
Julienne, 182. 
Left-OTer, 132. 
Lobster, 152, 15a 
Macaroni, 183. 
Mock Bisque, 147. 
Mock Turtle, 137. 
Mullagatawny, 189. 
Ox-Tail, 189. 
Oyster, 158. 
Pea, Green, 150. 
" Split, 149. 
Potage a la Reine, 

Potato. 146. 
Rice, 183. 
Sago, 133. 
Salmon, 152. 
Tapioca, 183. 
Tomato, with Stock, 

188. 
Tomato, without 

Stock, 147. 
Veal, 148. . 
Vegetable, Mixed, 

131 
Vegetable, Winter. 

151. 
Vermicelli, 183. 
White, 143, 144. 
Souse, 248. 
Spaghetti. 309. 
Spanish Cream, 346. 

44 Eggs, 200. 
Spice, Mixed, 82. 
Spinach, 296. 
Squash, Summer, 804. 

" Winter, 304. 
Stale Bread, 75. 
Starch, 456. 

" Corn, 456. 
Stearine, 459. 
Stew, Beef, 225. 
" Chicken, 268. 
44 Mock Oyster, 173. 
44 Mutton, 237. 
Stewing, 12. 
Sticks, 71. 
Stock, 121. 

To Clear, 129. 
To Make Dark, 127. 
To Strain, 127. 
To Remove Fat from, 
128. 

Strawberries, 392. 
Stuffing for Fish, 163. 
44 Chestnut, 258. 
" Chicken, 258. 






M 

<l 

•c 
II 
(I 

4< 

• I 
II 
<< 
f* 
CI 

fl 
II 

• t 
II 

«* 
it 
«l 
II 

II 

4C 
li 
II 
«< 

u 



it 
it 



ii 



41 

tc 



tl 
II 
II 
It 



II 
II 
u 
II 



Stuffing, Oyster, 168. 
Succotash, 284, 299. 
8ucro*e, 468. 
Suet, To Chop, 485 
Sugar, 458. 

44 in Bread, 53. 
Sweetbreads, 243. 

u Braised, 244. 

u Broiled, 248. 

" Creamed. 248. 

" Croquettes. 

279. 

•• Fried, 243. 

" Fritters, 244. 

" Larded, 248. 

" with Mush- 

rooms, 243. 

44 Scalloped, 243. 

Table of Cost of Fish, 174. 
«i i. i< .4 Fo od, 35. 

44 " " " Meat, 218. 
M *• Proportions, 31. 
M u Time for Cooking, 

24. 
" " Weights and Meas- 
ures, 80. 
Tamarind Water, 420 
Tapioca, 457. 

Apple, 833. 
Cream, 845. 
Fruit, 842. 
Jelly, 416. 
Tartar Sauce, 194. * 
Tartare Sauce, 195. 
Tarts, 819. 
Tea, 111. 
" Apple, 419. 
" Beef , 422-425. 
" Corn, 419. 
" Egg, 425. 
14 Herb, 420. 
44 Iced, 112. 
44 Russian, 112. 
11 81ippery-Elm, 419. 
Tea Cakes, 89. 
Terrapin, 185. 

44 Chicken or Mock, 
269. 
TMrded Bread,' 67. 
Toast, 77. 
44 Cream, 79. 
" Egg, 76. 
44 French, 79. 
44 for Garnishing, 79. 
44 Milk, 78. 
44 Water, 79. 
Toast Water, 419. 
Tomato Catchup. 404. 
44 Salad, 818. 
" Sauce, 198, 194. 
Tomatoes, 800. 

44 Scalloped, 300. 
41 Stewed, 300. 
44 Stuffed, 300. 
Tongue in Jelly, 230. 
,r Smoked, 230. 
Tongues, Lamb's, 238. 
74 Sheep's, 238. 



Tongues and Sounds, 178. 
Tripe in Batter, 281. 

44 Broiled, 231. 

41 Lyonnaise, 2P0. 
Tropical Snow, 898. 
Turkey, Boiled, 256. 
44 Boned, 27, 265 
44 Roast, 256. 
Turnips, 806. 
Turtle, Green. 186. 
Tutti Frutti, 865. 

Vanilla, 431. 

44 8ugar, 437. 
Veal, 239. 

44 Birds, 276. 

44 Croquettes, 279 

44 Cutlets, 240 

44 Fricandeau, 240t 

44 Fricassee, 240. 

44 Loaf, 276. 

44 Melton, 276. 

44 Roast, 239. 

44 Stew, 240. 
Vegetables, 289. 

44 Food, 29L 
44 Hash. 280 
Velvet Cream, 849. 

44 Sauce, 190. 
Venison, 263, 426. 
Vermicelli. 306. 

44 'E8»»206l 
Vol-au-vent, 321. 

Wafer Biscuit, 96. 
Wafers, Gluten, 97. 

44 Graham, 96 
Waffle-iron, 98. 
Waffles, 97. 

44 Corn Meal, 99. 

11 Graham, 99. 

44 Raised, 99. 
Washing Dishes, 442-448 
Water, 8-13, 464. 

44 Ices, 367, 869. 
Weights and Measures, 30. 
Welsh Rarebit, 282. 
Wheat, 87. 

44 Cracked, 110. 

44 Flour, 89. 

41 Granulated, 110 
Whey, 464. 
Whips, Cream, 858. 

44 Newport, 855. 
Whole-Wheat Gems, 95. 

44 " Muffins, 89 
Wine Jelly, 849. 
44 Whey, 464. 
Wonders, 106. 
Woodcock, 263. 

Yeast, 46. 

44 Compressed, 49. 

44 Dry, 49. 

41 Home-Made, 60. 

14 Hop, 68. 

44 Potato, Raw, 62L 

44 4< Boiled, 63. 

Yorkshire Pudding, 221 




Why You Should Use 

Cleveland's Baking Powder. 

It is beyond question perfectly wholesome, being com- 
posed only of pure cream of tartar and soda, with enough 
flour added to keep the strength, — no ammonia, no alum,- 
no adulteration whatever. 

It is the strongest. A rounded teaspoonfui 
of Cleveland's Baking Powder does more and better work 
than a heaping teaspoonfui ^^/^^^ °^ others. A 
large saving on a year's baking, ^fe^^^ 

Cake and other articles of food keep moist and fresh, 
and do not dry up as when made with baking powders 
containing ammonia or alum. 

The great teachers of cookery, those who know most about baking powders, 
choose and use Cleveland's. Cleveland's is the baking powder specified in the 
latest receipts of — 

MARION HARLAND, Author "Common Sense in the Household." 
MARIA PARLOA, Lecturer on Domestic Science. 
' MRS. S. T. RORER, Principal Philadelphia Cooking- School 
MRS. D. A. LINCOLN, Author of " Boston Cook Book." 
ELIZA R. PARKER, Author of " Economical Housekeeping," etc 
MRS. DEARBORN, Principal Boston Cooking-School. 
MRS. GILLETTE, Author of "White House ? ' Cook Book. 
MISS HOPE, Teacher in Public School Kitchen, Boston. 
MARGARET WISTER, " Parlor and Kitchen," Philadelphia. 
MRS. GESINE LEMCKE, Principal German-American Cooking-School, 
Brooklyn, 

and many other prominent teachers of cookery. 



Mrs. Lincoln writes, March, 1892: — 

"I have -used Cleveland's Baking Powder exclu- 
sively for several years > because I have found it what 
it claims to be> pure and wholesome. The results have 
been uniformly satisfactory.* ' 



Other baking powders are advertised to be the strongest, but Official Re- 
ports are better than anybody's " say-so," and Official Reports show Cleve- 
land's the strongest pure cream-of-tartar baking powder on the market. 



Cleveland Baking Powder Co., 

Dr. C. N. HOAGLAND, Pres't. 

81 and 83 Fulton St., New York. 



Providence 
Pure 



** Salad Oil 

IS A PURE, HIGHLY REFINED, COTTON-SEED 
OIL, SPECIALLY PREPARED FOR FAMILY USE, 
AND IS FAR SUPERIOR TO MUCH OF THE SO- 
CALLED OLIVE OIL, AND AT MUCH LOWER 
PRICE .- .- ." .■ .' .■ ." .- .■ -• .- .- ." 



PUT UP IN CANS AND BOTTLES FOR FAMILY USE 



Ask your Grocer for It. 



Union Oil Company, 

Providence, R.I. 



Nutritive Value of Meats. 

Prof. Charles D. Woods, of the Storrs (Conn.) Experiment 
Station, taking the edible portion of the various meats given below, 
finds their relative value as follows: — 





£% 


-3s- 


rJS* 




1.740 
1-590 
1.445 
1380 

uso 

1570 
1.120 
1.115 

1.100 

1.080 

1.040 

.805 

.640 
.500 


54.7 
48A 

7&7 
44.5 
41.9 
46.9 
40.5 
37.2 
36.4 
36.1 
31.7 
26.6 
25.8 


32.9 
30.3 


Tongue, canned, whole .... 


235 


Beef, corned, rump 


23-3 
14.0 
183 


Lamb, hind leg 

Veal Cutlets 


17.9 
16.5 
9.9 
7.1 
1.9 



We take the above table from The American Grocer. It has not been 
prepared for us as a matter of advertising, but is purely a Scientist's 
statement of fact. The results of Professor Woods' experiments are a 
surprise to us, and will astonish many good housekeepers and lead 
them to prize the Ferris Fine Cured Hams and Bacon more than 
ever before. Many providers have considered these choice Curings 
chiefly as relishes, but this comparison will show how prominent a place 
they should hold on every family table. The first grocers of the country 
furnish them as choicest American Curings, and yours will doubtless 
supply you if you insist on having the Ferris Brand. 

If you cannot get them nearer home, your orders will be promptly 
Ailed by: the s. s. fierce co., and COBB, BATES ft 

YERXA, Boston. 
FAKK fc ITXKOKD, and ACKER, HEKKALL * 

COUNT, Few Tork City. 
HITCH7U.,I.*LKTCRERtC0..1tndT.C.FLDn: 

ft CO., Philadelphia. 
G. G. C0RHWELL ft SOII., Washington, D. C. 
GEO. X. STEVEBSOF ft CO., Pittsburg, Fa. 
WELCH ft EASOH, Charleston, S. C. 
TORN LYONS ft CO., Savannah, Ga. 
CLARK ft HEADER, Sew Orleans, La. 
GOLDBERG, BOWEH ft LEBEID3AUM, San 

Francisco, Cal. 



FD55 




EXTRACTS 

In any of the valuable receipts in this book 
where fruit flavoring is called for, the very best 
results will be obtained by using 

FOSS' PURE FLAVORING EXTRACTS. 



Because 



WHY? 



OF THEIR ABSOLUTE FURITY. 
OF THEIR UNUSUAL STRENGTH. 
OF THEIR DELICATE FLAVOR. 






They are used by many of the leading teachers of cook- 
ery, and are also used at the Boston Cooking School, 
where the aim is always to secure the Purest and Best 
articles of food. 

These extracts are preferred and used by Mrs. D. A. 

Lincoln. 



Awarded the Qold Medal (Highest Award) by the Massachusetts 

Charitable Mechanic Association, 1892, for 

Purity and Superiority. 



Household. 
Garbage . 
Carbon izer. 

A. practical, simple, and inexpen- 
sive device for the immediate 
disposal of kitchen garbage in a 
cleanly, healthful, and convenient 
manner. Made from high-grade 
Russia iron, attractive and dur- 
able, and in forms and sizes to fit 
any Range or Stove. .' 

Mrs. Lincoln, "The Carbonizer works well; the roost disagreeable rcfu» 

^^ " ' slight whiff when ike pan was oiK'i.id during [he process, and 

(he coals have been entirely consumed the next day in the are. 

"Yours very truly, (Mrs.) MAfc-Y J. LINCOLN." 

.■ Dl\ Dlirgin, .- "If this apparatus were brought into general use it would 
Chairman ol the Boston 6l °? lt "= wcll-iiiiown nuisance of m,.„v than 50,000 swlll- 
Boardof Health, Hy> ! [^^ 'i;^^/:^/^^" 11 ^licTour^meB of 3 

many other annoyances. I have for years urged the fact that such an apparatus could 
be used in our kitchens, and 1 am personally grateful to you fot bringing It forward. 

: '.;. h. m:KGiS,M.D. 

" (Chairman of the Boston Board of Health)." 
.- MrS. Tobey, .• "Having given the Household Garhage Caiboniier a 

President Mass. Household h ' ' ,, ' p d ° ^''fitted to 

veied question of what to do with 'household waste from The kftchenTarid' insures one 
against the evils of the garbage can. "Very faithfully yqurs, 

"MINERVA B. TOBEY, 



.• .• .• PRICE .- .• .- 
.No. 1— 4 quarts, $5.00 .• .■ No. 2 — 7 quarts, $6.5 



New England Sanitary Co., 

83 Union Street, Boston, 

General Agents for New England. 
Sanitary Construction Co., 58 Pine Street., New York. 



J» 



H Perfection. 

M& If you are interested in having a varied, I 
b|j a dainty and a wholesome home bill of ; 
|j| fare, use the perfect shortening — " z 

I COTTOLENE 

<m Makes every dish it enters wholesome f 
H and delicious. ^ 

e Cottolene is sold everywhere with trade-marfca— ! 



"Cottolene " ane 




' i head f n cotlon-pli 



THE N. K. FAIRBANK COMPANY, 

o, St. Louia, New York, Boston, Philadelphia, ; 
Ran Francisco, Ntw Orit 



Established 1780. 

WALTER BAKER & CO. 

Dorchester, Mass., U.S.A. LlMnm 

THE OLDEST *WD IARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF 

JRE, HIGH GRADE 



Cocoas 
j Chocolates 

ON THIS CONTINENT . 



plain chocolate in the market for iamilj 

Their Qernu Sweet Chocolate is good 

and good to drink. It is palatable, nntt 



Baron von Liebig, one of the best known writers on dietetics, says i 

" It [Cocoa] iia perfect food, as wholesome as delicious, a beneficent restorer 
of exhausted power; but Its quality must be good, and it must be carefully pre- 
pared. It is highly nourishing and easily digested, and is filled to repair wasted 
strength, preserve health, and prolong life. It agrees with dry temperaments 

occupations oblige them to undergo severe mental strains ; with public speakers, 
and with all those who give to work a portion of the time needed for sleep. It 
soothes both stomach and brain, and for this reason, as well as for others, it is 
the best friend of those engaged in literary pursuits." 



Consumers should ask for and be sure that they get the genuine 

Walter Baker & Co.'s Goods, 

Made at DORCHESTER, MASS., U.S. A. 



CRAWFORD RANGES. 



USED BY MRS. LINCOLN. 



Known and prized by housekeepers everywhere. 

SIMPLE. SERVICEABLE, SATISFACTORY. 



Walker & Pratt Mfg. Co. 

MANUFACTURERS: 

ji-K UNION STREET, BOSTON. 

Sold by Dealers Everywhere. 



ESTABLISHED ilji. INCORPORATED 1894. 



S. S. PIERCE CO. 



The highest possible grade of 
Flour for bread-making purposes. 



APPROVED BY.., 

MRS. LINCOLN. 



S. S. PIERCE CO., 

Importers and Grocers, 

SCOLLAY SQUARE, I 

OOPLEY SQUARE. \ BOSTON 

OENTRAL WHARF, ' UKJOtKJW. 

OOOLIOOE'8 OORNER, SROOKLINE. 

SEND FOR PRICE-LIST. 



"WORCESTER" 

-THE PERFECT SALT = 



FOR TABLE AND KITCHEN. 



USED AND RECOMMENDED BY MBS. LINCOLN. 



SOLD EVERYWHERE. 



jtmpiams the-cl - 
#a«j«p gtewlt. Misuii 



HIGHEST AWARDS: 



For Food . . 

Stinggforti'g Corn 1 

Statd) forms, with milk ( 
or beef tea, a most 

EXCELLENT FOOD 
CHILDREN AND INVALIDS. 



For the Laundry. . . 

feinaBfort'B "Sifter (Sloes" Start!) wilt be found far 

superior to all other starches in its wonderful strength and uniformity. It 
imparts to fine laces, linens, and muslins, a delicacy and lustre simply 

iilllQfif arO'8 " \j ttrt " Startb is well adapted to economical 
housekeepers. It is a genuine article, absolutely pure, never varies in 
quality, and is free from odor. 

Rinjtafort'6 " LannSrO," the perfect cold-water starch. Labor 
saving, quick working, economical. 



T. KINGSFOSD & SON, Manufacttirer,, 

OSWEGO, &EW YORK, 



Established In 1868. 

The 



Kitchen and Hand 
Mineral Soap 



For Cleansing and Polishing Tin, Copper, 
Brass, and all metals .' .' .* .* 

"ft* n -iC For Cleansing and Restoring Paint it has 

1 hC BCSt OOap no equal in the market .• 

Ever 

Introduced   • Or Removing Tar, Pitch, Cement, Varnish, 
•Jt«jtftjt Paint, Axle Grease, Blacking, and all 

impurities from the hands, it is une- 
qualled, leaving the skin soft, white, 
and smooth .* .* .* .* / •• .* .* .* .* .• .• / 



Beware of the Imitations which may be offered 
For Sale by all Grocers******* 

Charles F* Bates & Co* 

Proprietors and Manufacturers 

\ 23 Oliver Street, Boston 

Factory* Wollaston, Mass* 

USED AND APPROVED BY 
MRS. LINCOLN 



ESTABLISHED 1831. . . INCORPORATED 1894. 



S. S. PIERCE CO. 




80LE AGENTS IN THE UNITEO STATES 
•  FOR   

VEUVE CHAFFARD, 

Jardin de la France. 



Pure . . 
Olive Oil 



IN... 
HONEST BOTTLES. 



*++++4 



'++ 



Receiving this high grade Pure Olive Oil, as we 
do, directly from the grower, all intermediate 
profits are saved to the consumer. 



USED BY MRS. D. A. LINCOLN. 



S. S. PIERCE CO. 

Sfmpotterc antt tifrocer*, 
■• [ BOSTON 

C00UDGE'8 CORNER, BROOKLINE. 



8COLLAY SQUARE, 
COPLEY SQUARE 
CENTRAL WHAR 



81 Years' Success. 



Stickney & Poor 
Spice Co. 



Founded 1815. 



Pure Mustard^, 

Spicej, Cream Tartar, Uerfy, 

Etc., Etc. 

The Largest Grinders of Pure Spices in the World. 
Highest Award Gold Medals, 1890-1892. 

Purity and Quality Unexcelled. 



Ask jour Grocer for the above brand ol 
packed ill 1-4 lb. fail paeluee* o 
1-4 lb. fall weight cam. 




A 'New Food 

PREPARED FROM THE HEART 
OF THE BARLEr KERNEL .: .: 

PUT UP IN FOUR-POUND SEALED TINS. 

RETAIL PRICE AT MILL, FIFTY 

CENTS EACH. 



F/ours' 



FOR DIABETES, DYSPEPSIA, 
' OBESITY, CONSTIPATION, 
NOT WHOLE WHEAT FLOURS, 
THEY CONTAIN NO BRAN, AND COMPARATIVELY LIT- 
TLE STARCH. 

PAMPHLET AND BAKING SAMPLES 
SENT FREE ON APPLICATION .: .: 

Farwell £$? Rhine$, 

.'. .-. WATERTOWN, NT. .-. .-. 



Quaker 



Oats 4D«««« 
Buckwbeat 



are both used and recommended by 

MRS. LINCOLN 



GASTILIAN 
* CREAM. 

A fTfyn-Infiammable article for removing 

Grease, pitch, Tar, Fresh Paint, and Ink, from 

Woollen Clothing, Carpets, and 
Window Glass. 

especially recommended for cleaning 
leaded windows. 



f\fterr)OOT) Jcas 

HIMALAYAN. FORMOSA. ENGLISH 
BREAKFAST, and RUSSIAN TEAS. 



CHOICEST imported. 



F. C. LORD, Agent, 

WEST ROXBURY DISTRICT, 

BOSTON, MASS., U.S.A. 

d for Circular* and TttHmoniaU. 

APPROVED BV MRS. LINCOLN. 



THE 

White Mountain Freezer. 



USED BY MRS. LINCOLN. 



For the "Whlta Mc 



A strong, waterproof tub, bound with heaty, gilvaniied iron hoops thai full; 

get between the cogs. Cans full iiie atid made of the ycij best quality of thai 

i-.ilvuniii'i! to prevent rusting. It is ilie only lieejer in the world having the 
braird duftrx daslt/r. iw'!* uViAV ssif-aJj asling wood nmfiwg tar, by the Ui 
which cream can be frnr.rr, :n ^'.s tJi.m unt-ti,?l: tlie time, yel finer and smoother 
can possibly be produced in any other Freeser now in use. 



The "White Maun 
and Home rnrnithl 
accept no other if you 



The White Mountain Freezer Co. 
nashua, n. h. 



r 



Dr. Welch's Grape Juice. 



FROM CHOICEST CONCORD GRAPES. 



Dr. Welch's Grape Juice is from choicest grapes, pressed 
and sterilized by improved apparatus, — delicate straining, 
extreme clarifying, and great cleanliness pervading the 
whole process. 

Beautiful color, full grape flavor and aroma, no sediment. Retain- 
ing to perfection all the nutrient and tonic properties of rich, ripe 
Concord Grapes, and is, therefore, a perfect food for the sick and the 
well. 

Uniformly clean, clear, beautiful. The best blood-maker and 
waste-restorer. Good for nursing mothers and delicate children. It 
is life-giving food to the aged and feeble. Gives strength where other 
things fail. Especially valuable in cases of constipation or diseases 
complicated by that troublesome disorder. 

For that numerous class who cannot take milk, grape juice offers 
a delicious substitute as vegetable milk. 



HUMAN 


GRAPE 




MILK. 


JUICE. 








Albuminoid and Nitro- 


1.05 


1.7 


genous Matter. 


11.0 


12.20 


Sugar, Gum, Etc. 


0.4 


1.70 


Mineral Substances. 


87. 


70 to 85 


Water. 



Pure Unfermerited Grape 
Juice and Human Milk, 
100 parts of Each, in their 
Component Parts, have 
this Striking Similarity. 



IN THE HOME WHEN NOT SICK. 

Outside of its use as a medicine when sick, Dr. Welch's Grape 
Juice should find a permanent place as a tonic for the tired mother 
and for the delicate children. It can also be used with pleasure and 
profit with siphons of soda-water, making delicious " soda-water at 
home," and for water ices, sherbet, ices for cakes, etc. 

Mrs. Mary J. Lincoln permits us to say that Dr. 
Welch's Grape Juice is used and approved by her. 



Sold by Druggists and by Fancy Grocers. Nantes of local dealers, 
circulars, and other information cheerfully furnished, A. 2-oz. 
sample bottle by mail for 6 cents, 

THE WELCH GRAPE JUICE CO., Vineland, N. J. 



A Well Served Meal 



MEANS A LOT OF THOUGHT AND CARE AND SOME FEW 

CONVENIENCES IN THE KITCHEN. ONE OF THE 

MOST IMPORTANT IS AN 

EDDY 

REFRIGERATOR 

PERFECT IN EVERY RESPECT. BUILT TO LAST A LIFETIME. 
SLATE SHELVES, COLD DRY AIR, AND EVERYTHING THAT 
YEARS OF EXPERIENCE AND MONEY CAN CONTRIBUTE TO 
MAKE THE BEST REFRIGERATORS IN THE WORLD 



Used for many years by Mrs. Lincoln 



THEY ARE SOLD AT THE LEADING FURNITURE AND HOUSE- 
FURNISHING STORES . MANUFACTURED BY 

D. EDDY & SONS, Dorchester, Mass. 



i 



Shredded 



Whole Wheat 

— ™ Biscuit. 



A UNIVERSALLY ACCEPTED 
SUBSTITUTE FOR BREAD. 

As Delicious to Taste as they are Easy to Digest. 

.* As Nutritious as Beaf steak .• 
.- Rich in Blood and Muscle Making qualities / 

.* May be Served in a Score of Ways .* 
Always ready for Use; will keep Indefinitely. 

A CERTAIN CURE FOR EVERY 
DISORDER OF THE STOMACH. 

A Perfect Summer Food, as they ^m^ 

are prepared already for serving. ^^ 

The Solution of Light Housekeeping. 

4g^ Economical, Dainty, and Nutritious. 

^^ Pure, Wholesome, and Appetizing. 




For Sale by all Enterprising Grocers. 



Used and Approved by Mrs. Lincoln. 



Cereal Machine Co., 841 Broadway, New York. 



1 



"Among all ike Cook-Books this will certainly take its plat* 
ms one of the very best." — The Christian Union. 



MRS. LINCOLN'S 

BOSTON COOK-BOOK. 

WHAT TO DO AND WHAT NOT TO DO 

IN COOKING. 

By MRS. D. A. LINCOLN, 

AUTHOR OP u CARVING AND SERVING." 

With 50 Illustrations. ' One handsome \2nt0 volume of 600 /ages, neatly 

half bound. Price, $2.00. 



" It is the trimmest, best arranged, best illustrated, most intelligible manual 
of cookery as a high art, and as an economic art, that has appeared." — Inde- 
pendent. 

M It is exactly fitted for use as a family authority, in that it is the work, 
not of a theorizer, but of a woman who knows what she is talking about. It 
is the very common-sense of the science of cookery." — Extracts from Sallie 
Joy Whites Letters in Philadelphia and Portland papers. 

"The recipes are practical, and give just those facts which are generally 
omitted from books of this sort, to the discouragement of the housekeeper, and 
frequently to the lamentable disaster andjailure of her plans. Mrs. Lincoln 
has laid a large number of people under obligation, and puts into her book a 
large amount of general experience in the difficult and delicate art of cooking. 
The book is admirably arranged, and is supplied with the most perfect indexes 
we have ever seen in any work of the kind." — The Christian Union. 

" It is to be recommended for its usefulness in point of receipts of moderate 
cost and quantity, in its variety, its comprehensiveness, and for the excellence 
of its typographical form." — Boston Transcript. 

" We have no fear in saying that Mrs. Lincoln's work is the best and most 
practical cook-book of its kind that has ever appeared. It does not emanate 
from the chef of some queen's or nobleman's cuisine, but it tells in the most 
simple and practical and exact way those little things- which women ought to 
know, but have generally to learn by sad experience. It is a book which ought 
to be in every household." — Philadelphia Press. 



Mrs. Lincoln's Boston Cook-Book is kept on sale by all booksellers 
everyivhere. If you cannot readily obtain it, enclose the amount, 
$2.00, directly to the Publishers, who will mail it % post-paid. 

ROBERTS BROTHERS, Boston. 



CARVING AND SERVING 

By Mrs. D. A. LINCOLN, 

AUTHOR OF "THE BOSTON COOK BOOK." 

Square i2mo*. Illuminated board covers. Price, 60 cents. 



"Carving and Serving, n by Mrs. D. A. Lincoln, author of the "Boston Cook 
Book," is a little manual by the aid of which any gentleman or lady can become at 
expert carver. What an advantage it must be to be able to place with the left hand 
fork in the breast of a turkey, and, without once removing it, with the right hand to 
carve and dissect, or disjoint, the entire fowl ready to be helped to admiring guests' 
This is done by skilful carvers. The book also contains directions for serving, with a 
list of utensils for carving and serving. 

" The student of this attractive little book has no excuse for inefficiency and bun- 
gling, as the directions, both general and specific, are so clear that no room is left for 
uncertainty. The scope of the book broadens somewhat beyond its expressed range 
in giving a word of needful advice to the guest, who is conjured to bear in mind that 
he is invited to dine, not to take a lesson in carving ; adding that there ' seems to be 
an irresistible fascination about carving which silences all tongues, and draws all eyes 
to the head of the table. 1 However, if the process is performed a la Mrs. Lincoln, 
scrutiny need not be feared. The directions in serving are no less timely and valuable, 
being founded upon a combination of experience and good taste that may safely be 
regarded as oracular." — Commonwealth. 

u * Carving and Serving,' by Mrs. D. A. Lincoln, is a capital book for housekeepers. 
It gives minute and clear directions how to carve everything that goes on to the table 
in the way of beef, poultry, and game. It also gives instructions how to prepare all 
these edibles, and appetizing dishes like sweetbreads, chops, cutlets, meat pies, salads, 
soups, and many others. And what is greatly essential, it gives detailed information 
how to serve the different edibles and drinks, to cut bread, and, last but not least, 
gives some very much-needed advice how to offer all these things at the table. . . . 
The book is full of such pretty suggestions, as well as solid information, and there is 
such a wide-spread interest to-day among educated women regarding cooking, serving, 
and managing dishes on the table, they will find this little book a valuable assistant in 
all such matters/* — Hartford Times. 



Sold by all booksellers. Mailed, post-paid, on receipt of price* 
by the publishers, 

ROBERTS BROTHERS, 

Boston 



BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 



Lessons in Cooking, for the use of Classes in 
Public and Industrial Schools. By Mrs. 
D. A. Lincoln, author of "The Boston Cook 
Book," u Carving and Serving,* etc. 

1 vol. 12mo. Price, $1.00. 



I regard the book as a very practical one for a text-book. It 
will be especially valuable to the teacher as a guide to the lessons 
she gives. I find the questions at the end of the lessons useful 
for the purpose of analysis. They call attention to the essential 
points. The physiological information and chemical analysis of 
foods, together with the tables of cost at the end of the book, add 
to the usefulness of the work. It is an undoubted success for the 
school-room. — William T. Harris, Concord, Mass. 

Your " Boston School Kitchen Text-Book " appears to be based 
on correct principles and admirably executed as regards details. 
I hope that my girls will have a chance to practically study its 
interesting lessons- Your quiet assumption (which runs through 
the whole book) that there is a good and satisfactory reason be- 
hind every process which is indorsed by good usage, is a whole- 
some one which it is well that children should early learn. — C. M. 
Woodward, Manual Training School, Washington University, 
St. Louis, Mo. 

Allow me to say that you have made our whole country your 
debtor by the composition of a book so much needed, and so 
simple, sensible, and thorough. I am sure the book is its own 
best plea for a place in our public schools I believe it will greatly 
aid in making instruction in the theory and practice of cookery a 
part of our school courses. I am glad to see that it has constant 
reference to the education of the mind, as well as to the training 
of the hand. — George C. Chase, Professor of English Literature, 
Bates College, Lew is ton, Me. 



1 



