Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 




^ 



Schlesinger Library 
Radcliffe College 



Culinary Collection 

From the Collection of 
Sophie Coe 




■•^ i. ' umf I • 









y 



^/9^-r 



z} 



Y 



J / / 



/ 



(^r- 



/ 



• t 



;■ I 



A VmcTimi Guide 



-FOR THE- 



CAKE i BREAD BAKER, 



-BY- 



C. W. SCHLUMPF. 



THIS BOOK IS THE RESULT OF TWENTY-FIVE YEARS 

EXPERIENCE IN THE BAKERY. IT CONTAINS NO 

RECIPE WHICH HAS NOT BEEN TRIED AND 

PROVED PRACTICALLY TO 

BE CORRECT. 



BEST & COMPANY, 
PRINTERS, 
PITTSBURGH, PA., 1884. 






Entered according to Act of Congress, A. D., 1883 ,by 

C. W. SCHLUMPF. 
All Rights Reserved. 



'' ■ , r. ' 



PREFACE. 

In presenting this little volume to the public the 
Author does not seek to set himself up as a teacher par 
excellence of the arts and mysteries of the kitchen and 
bakery. His only purpose is to give in a plain straight- 
forward manner such hints and instruction as will mater- 
ially aid and assist those whom duty may call, or inclina- 
tion prompt to the preparation of " Creature comforts " 
either for the general public or those of the household. 

To prevent any misconception of the author's meaning 
in setting forth the ingredients used in the various 
recipes, his constant aim has been to secure brevity and 
conciseness, thereby preventing mistakes, loss of time and 
material if not serious disappointment. 

Conscious of the rectitude of his intentions and with a 
practical experience of more than a quarter of a century 
in the workshop, where he has put to actual test all the 
recipes contained in this little volume he feels justified in 
sending it forth upon the uncertain sea of public opinion 
in the hope that it will at least have an equal chance with 
its more pretentious competitors whose chief claim lies 
in handsome binding and abundance of theory. 



Bread ^ 6ake Baker's Guide. 



PRACTICAL LIVING. 

The main cause of bad baking and cooking lies in the 
failure to recognize the fact that baking and cooking is 
an art, and like all other arts must be acquired by study. 

Most women possess the elements necessary to attain 
excellence in baking and cooking — patience, a nice sense 
of taste, and a sort of intuitive judgment in selecting 
materials, and as they also have a controlling influence 
over their households, every mother should study the 
physical as well as mental welfare of those intrusted to 
her care — this she can accomplish in a very great degree 
by care in selecting and preparing food for the family 
table. 

Only good and seasonable material should be used in 
baking, and cooking, and particular attention should be 
given to that food which \^ill give most vigor, strength 
and elasticity to the body. 

The need for good substantial food is seen in the fact 
that the human body is composed of organic substances 
which are continually changing by waste and renewal 
during life, 



^ 



6 

Loss must be counterbalanced by gain in an adequate 
manner Loss of organic matter is twofold, by respiration 
and perspiration. 

Every part of the body is in a constant state of change, 
the food we eat, and the air we breathe are converted 
into the natural ingredients which make up our tissues. 
While on the one hand we are thus constantly supply- 
ing ourselves with materials for repair and growth ; on 
the other there is steadily going on within us a process 
of waste. 

A combination of carbonate, water and oxygen enables 
us to breathe, and at the same time will purify the blood. 

Carbonate is the fuel of the body, is burned up by 
oxygen from the air, and by such process all surplus of 
carbonate matter is wasted by breathing, and the blood 
derives its heat and pure state. 

All nitrogen derived from animal and vegetable fat is 
partly consumed by breathing, does not combine readily 
with oxygen, will not burn, and what is not consumed in 
breathing goes into the blood and is called the blood 
builder, which is the renewer of our physical organism. 
The process of breathing is not entirely limited to the 
lungs, but takes place to a certain extent through the skin. 

The process of perspiration goes on without our aid or 

will and is affected by variations in temperature, by 
exercise and by various nervous conditions The vast 
number of sweat tubes in the human body said to reach 



the enormous sum of seven millions, serve not only to 
regulate the temperature of the body, but also furnish an 
outlet to the products of the waste of the system and 
thereby aid the kidneys, which are liable to become dis- 
ordered when anything interferes with the action of the 
skin. 

" Sanctorius tells us that almost five- eighths of what we 
consume goes to waste in such manner." 

Food may be divided into two classes — that which 
warms us, and the other that forms us. Articles of food, 
that are rich in carbonate matter, such as animal and 
vegetable fat, are called the fat-builders, such as starch, 
gum, sugar and milk. They keep up the heat of our 
body, and make building matter either blood or muscle. 
Such vegetable and animal fat, as is not wasted by breath- 
ing, serves as a fat-builder of the body. Therefore ar- 
ticles rich in nitrogen and poor in carbonate are good 
blood-builders, such as fibrin of animal and vegetable 
matter, called Albumen, and are found in coflfee, tea, 
cocoa, fibre of chicken meat -and flour. Articles which 
have sufficient blood-building matter are milk, eggs, 
graham flour, cereals, coffee, tea, chocolate, mushrooms, 
fat meat and green vegetables. 

Such articles as have predominating blood-building 
matter are lean meat, cheese, oysters and snails. 

With the help of proper knowledge, in baking and 
cooking, such combination of articles can be used as will 



8 

produce good nourishment and harmony in our organ- 
ism, which is the real art in preparing food. 

Different climates and seasons require different food ; 
also, age, temper and condition of life are to be considered. 
Cool climates and seasons require stronger food. The air 
is more impregnated with oxygen, which makes breathing 
faster and more complete, hence there is more waste, con- 
sequently they will have to be replaced and food is better 
digested. 

In warmer climates and seasons, when breathing is not 
so fast, and perspiration freer, fruit, vegetables, frozen 
creams and custards are better relished. 

Different ages and conditions in life need different 
modes of living, as long as the body is in a growing 
state, food should be richer in substance, because there is 
more and faster renewing required, and that has to be 
supplied in accordance. Where in a more mature age, 
when waste is not so fast, it needs only normal renewing. 

In very old age, where more waste takes place, very 
easily digested food is required and of normal richness. 

Also, different callings in life require different diet. 

People that are engaged in hard out-door work require 
a more nutritive quality of food, prepared in more sub- 
stantial manner, than those that are engaged in mental or 
in-door work; they breath faster, waste more and digest 
faster. 



" Our scientific men tell us that a grown man needs 
daily seven pounds of food, which would produce one- 
quarter pound of blood-building matter, one-sixth pound 
of fat, one-half pound of salt and six pounds of water, 
which can be produced from one pound of meat, two 
pounds of bread, and the balance of water." 

The best food is a mixture of animal and vegetable. 
If only one kind be adopted, as our vegetarians want us, 
it would not create a harmony, neither would it be econ- 
omical or pleasant living. 

For example, if only bread be consumed it would pro- 
duce too much carbonate matter and not enough nitro- 
gen, and if used in excess would well produce fat and 
liver disease. 

If only meat be consumed it would produce too much 

nitrogen and not enough of carbonate matter, and would 

bring on an over stock of blood, hence gout and inflam- 

ations would be the result. 

The above shows how useful such studies are, and 
should be of great importance to every person who has a 
regard for good health. 

The kitchen should be the mother's laboratory, where 
only such materials are used as will create good and 
wholesome food, and if economy is exercised the poorest 
people can produce food that will give physical strength 
and health, and are only such, if consumed in a clean and 
frugal manner. Anything used in excess will produce 
misery and disease. 



10 

A drunken or gluttonous person is hardly ever fit for 
good physical or mental work, where frugality is a great 
factor for health, strength and elasticity of our body. 

To be moderately frugal in eating and drinking is the 
true secret of health, a keen zest for a long life's pleas- 
ures and enjoyments, while gluttony and drunkenness will 
just as surely result in a diseased body and mind, render- 
ing miserable the unhappy owner. 

Variety in Food. — Refinement is not shown in man- 
ners and dress only, but in the choice of food as well, 
and one need scarcely say that the kind and quality of 
food has a great effect on the characteristics of man or 
woman ; an uncultured person will eat the same kind of 
food day after day, desiring nothing different, becoming 
daily duller and more careless of the finer parts of life ; 
with him anything which produces strength is all suffi- 
cient, his brain needs but little to supply the waste, his 
muscles are far more important. But to one of more re- 
fined nature variety is essential to health of body and 
mind, the delicate frozen creams and custards, with fruit 
and cakes are as necessary as the more heavy food of 
meats and vegetables. 

When we have ta ven great care in selecting a good 

variety of food necessary to maintain life, then we are 

only half supplied with what is necessary to exist. 
It is of greater importance to know what we are 
able to digest than what we are able to consume ; to do 



11 

that properly a good supply of air, light, heat, sleep and 
electricity are necessary, and are as essential to life as 
food ; they assimilate what we have consumed, and con- 
sequently supply what we have wasted through physical 
or mental exercise. 

"OUR DAILY BREAD." 

From the different kinds of cereals, such as wheat, rye, 
barley, peas, Indian corn, buckwheat and beans, we gain 
our bread, and on account of their chemical composition 
we gain a nourishment almost equivalent to milk, and of 
its natural qualities we can eat it several times a day all 
through life without becoming adverse to it, therefore we 
callit"Our Daily Bread." 

The culture of wheat ancj other cereals have engaged 
the human family as far back as we have a history, and 
on account of its peculiar and well adapted qualities for 
stability, has been the beginning of business or commerce 
between man and man, and has resulted in speculations 
then as now-a-days. 

In regard to consuming it, the stalk or straw it grows 
on supports its kernels until matured and ready to eat, as 
trees their fruit. It not being fit for consumption in its 
crude state has compelled all races of people to pound or 
grind it, and mix water to it to form a paste, and to bake 
it either in the hot rays of the sun, or on hot stones, or by 
the fire, which is yet a general practice among all uncul- 



12 

tured races of people. If we trace history we find that 

baking bread kept even steps with other cultures of arts, 

and people began, what they thought an improvement by 

bolting to make fine flour until they had fully separated 

the bran from the flour, as we have it this day. 

Some of our vegetarians and chemists say that it 
never was an improvement, only waste. Dr. Liebig tells 
us in his letters on chemistry, " to separate the bran from 
the flour is a waste of food, and for the object of nourish- 
ment it is rather more harmful than useful." Also, Prof S. 
Graham, a vegetarian of great prominence, observed that 
people in Eastern States that consume most fine flour 
are not as healthy and as strong as their brethren in 
the far West who consume cereals in a more crude state, 
and he thinks, poor teeth and blood and billions attacks 
are the result, hence unbolted or Graham bread is the 
best. 

But the case is not so alarming. Now, our latest im- 
provements in patent milling will give people sufiicient 
blood-building matter, called albumen or gluten. To 
satisfy our vegetarians, it is a fact, a Httle bran left in the 
flour will help our digestive organs, and at the same time, 
we would not waste so much of the best parts of the grain, 
but our red spring wheat helps us, for it is small in size, 
but solid, and if grown in good soil has all necessary 
properties to make good, substantial bread. 



13 

If wheat is milled properly it will help baking con- 
siderable, but most bad bread is over-yeasted, and that 

robs the flour of its natural endowed nutty and violet 
flavor, and gets acidous and dark from bad treatment, 

and often is not baked enough, then only eaten when 

warm, is required to fill the bill of illhealth, then we have 

all these diseases that Prof. Graham tells about, how 

much pain is really suffered by not procuring wholesome 

bread. Most women set their sponge before going to 

bed, hardly ever pay any attention whether the night be 

cold or hot, and think very little about their sponge until 

morning, when they find it to be too far gone and in its third 

or last stage, when it would be far better they had no 

sponge at all for their stomach's sake, but it will be mixed 

up and eaten, and the natural results can be read on the 

consumer's faces. 

In warm weather sponge should never be set in the 
evening, unless it be late, and flour be of good, strong 
quality, or set very cool ; only under such conditions 
should such work be allowed. 

If the wheat is grown in poor land, and should receive 
such unthoughtful treatment, then better people would 
not eat such bread at all ; it is not fit to eat, even for 
animals. Too much solution in "feeble" flour is bad, 
consequently bad bread. 

Well treated and sound baked bread is good, no matter 

what grade of flour is used, of course it will make bread 



14 

in proportion to quality of flour, but it will be wholesome 
nevertheless. 

It cannot be denied that real fancy white flour is not as 
nourishing "and more so, when it has a blue cast," as 
a darker looking flour with a yellow cast ; the cast has 
nothing to do with milling, that lays in the wheat, but if 
flour is taken from the whole grain, and not so closely 
bolted, which will give flour all the properties that can be 
reached, it will always produce good bread, and is easier 
digested, therefore do the Germans rather prefer rye bread, 
it has more gluten, and is generally baked thick-crusted, 
which makes the most nourishing bread for the least 
money, and rye has a different effect on the human or- 
ganism than wheat flour. 

French. German and English chemists have been busy 
with one another for the last ten years to settle old disputes, 
what combination of cereals are best adapted to make the 
most nourishing and substantial bread. Experiments and 
counter experiments are tried with ferment and with- 
out, with salt and without, and different kinds of ferments, 
and they have all come to one conclusion so far, " that 
the whitest looking bread is not the richest in albumen, 
only starch or heat-giving matter, and that is often of poor 
quality," which should teach every person that strong 
nerve and blood is only found in good bread, and that we 
often give our animals the best part of the grain and keep 
the worst part for ourselves, just for the sake of eating 
white bread. 



15 

In the Warasdin mountains ** Croatia" bread is baked 

from buckwheat and an admixture of chesnut meal and 

milk, which makes bread as dark as a stove-pipe, but the 
people are hardy and of excellent health. In the lower 
part of that country they eat bread made of a mixture of 
Indian corn and wheat, and some have a little bean meal 
with half sour and the balance of sweet milk, which also 
makes very strong and good bread. 

In Hungary bread is made entirely of wheat flour, mixed 
with sweet milk, but flour for general use, the coarsest 
bran is taken out, which makes bread similar to the 
French army bread. In the western part of France, 
half wheat and half oatmeal is made up in bread, which is 
very good, but when a couple of days old gets crumby 
and short. In the Voge mountains in France they mix 
wheat, barley and bean meal together, and it makes very 
strong bread ; is baked in very large loaves. 

In Southern Germany, rye and wheat flour is generally 
used for bread, sometimes pea meal is added, which 
also makes good and substantial bread. In Northern 
Germany they take whole grain and bake it so hard that 
bread will keep for almost a year, which is called *^ Vom- 
pernickel," and still further North, loaves are almost omit- 
ted, and only small cakes are baked for immediate use. 

Such is the making up of ** Our Daily Bread," which 
is always good, if properly treated and cleanly made. 



16 

USEFUL INSTRUCTIONS. 

With constant practical observations, by using good 
materials in a clean systematic way, and by adhering to 
a few well tried rules which are herewith appended, con- 
formity to these will prevent many if not all mistakes in 
baking. 

Use only good materials, if good work is required, and 
more particularly in using sugar and flour; sugar that 
is adulterated — (for proof see my test for adulterated 
sugar) cannot be used with success in baking cakes ; 
it has confused the best of bakers, and has spoiled 
a great deal of work. It makes cake dough sticky, re- 
quires too much flour, and ends in making cakes tough 
and hard. 

Butter should be ffesh and well washed to extract 
the salt; when intended to be used for cakes, where 
chemicals are applied in summer, ice water should be 
used. Buttermilk is better than either sweet milk or 
water in cakes where molasses is used, provided your 
chemicals are dissolved in water. 

Milk or water intended to be used for cakes, pies or 
tarts should always be iced in summer time, it makes 
better and easier work. 

To bake good looking cakes, fresh eggs are required. 

Eggs should not be kept where it is damp. Whites of 
eggs should be perfectly fresh, and in cool state when 



17 

required for meringues, macaroons, puffs, iciAg and for 
ornamenting cakes. 

All chemicals should be kept in dry places and well 
corked. 

Baking soda and ammonia should be well powdered 
and dissolved in water, when prepared for use. Baking 
Powder and cream of tartar should be sifted in flour and 
well mixed in the flour to prepare for use. 

Spices should be strictly pure, kept in a dry place and 
well covered, and sifted in flour, when prepared for use. 

Flavoring extracts and oils should be kept in colored 
bottles or wrapped in colored paper and kept in a dark 
place. 

Lemon flavoring in baking — " lemon oil is best," and 
vanilla beans, simmered in water, is best for ice cream or 
custards. 

The whiter and softer the flour, the better for pastry. 
It should always be sifted before using, and should never 
be kept near coal oil, onions or salt, nor in a damp place. 

Salt should be of good quality when intended for bread, 

and should not be used in excess ; it will check the activity 

of fermentation, and is neither healthy nor pleasant eating. 

Water should be soft for preparing yeast, it will keep 

better, and should not be too hot when used for bread 

dough, neither should it have boiled. 

Cleanliness is the greatest factor in keeping yeast well, 
and should be strictly adhered to. Flour, water and yeast, 



18 

when put together for sponge or dough, should be of even 
temperature. 

Dough of all kinds, and in all conditions, should not 
be exposed to the air. 

Excessive use of yeast will make bread dark, crumby, 
sour and unfit to eat. 

When sponge is old, the*dough should be used with- 
out delay, and well baked. 

Tin pans are not well adapted to set sponge in winter 
time, wooden bowls or troughs are better. 

Ovens should be evenly heated, bread will evaporate 
better. 

You should have everything ready before putting your 
hands in cake dough ; never be in a hurry when baking 
cakes ; keep company away, and mistakes will be few. 

If doughnuts are not wanted very greasy sift one 
ounce of corn starch to one pound of flour. 

After baking doughnuts, lard should be emptied into 
another vessel for cooling and to settle ; let it stand thirty 
minutes, then replace it again in its proper vessel for 
further use. 

These are the most needed practical rules to be ob- 
served, and are great factors in baking, and will be a 
benefit if strictly adhered to. Always get yoursell well 
posted before practice, and mistakes will be avoided. 



19 



SHAPES AND FORMS. 

Since time has fashioned constantly varying shapes 
and forms and names of cakes and bread, no person can 
tell what shape and form will be in the future, but in their 
present multifarious state which is only the products of 
improvement of the past. Semmels,Wecke, Bretzel, Kon- 
gleouph, KruUers and Kipfel are all of fermented dough, 
and are of German origin. They have an admixture of 
sugar, eggs, milk, butter and often currants, need there- 
fore stronger, or more yeast is required ; in most cases 
brewer's yeast or a sort of dry yeast is used similar to our 
patent compressed yeast ; these cakes are generally small 
sized, like our rusks and buns, and serve the same purpose. 
Kipfel, one of the best breakfast cakes, is shaped in half moon 
form, in commemoration of a baker's apprentice boy, who 
saved the city of Vienna from explosion when undermined 
by the surrounding Turks, is therefore an exclusive Vienna 
production, and is consumed in great quantity. 

Kaleshca is a Slavonic name for a large size fermented 
cake, with admixture of eggs, butter, and all sorts of do- 
mestic fruits, similar to our fruit cake, is extensively baked 
for Christmas holidays, and is ate as bread during that 
time, which lasts ''a whole month," and is known in all 
lower Danubian countries. 

Buns, rusks, scones and crackers, are of Scotch origin, 
and are all fermented. Cakes have also an admixture 



20 

of butter, sugar and sometimes currants, and are made in 
all conceivable shapes to create variety. 

All heavy sugar cakes are of French origin, and are all 
raised with chemicals on account of their heavy admix- 
tures of sugar, milk, butter, molasses, honey and almonds, 
and generally go by the names of drops, jumbles, nuts, 
snaps, jelly rolls, puffs, meringues and macaroons. 

These are divided again in different kinds of shapes and 
flavors, merely to create a variety to suit the taste. 

Biscuit is also a French cake, is generally baked to 
crisp, for the use of sick people. 

What is called lady fingers here are also called biscuit 
in France. 

Crackers are at present all made by machinery on ac- 
count of their dry mixtures, and worked through an iron 
cylinder made like a clothes wringer, and cut as fast as 
the dough comes out, and baked very rapidly. 

Only of late years has machinery been introduced in 
baker's work to replace the old laborious style of hand- 
work. In connection with crackers, bread rolls and bis- 
cuits are manufactured in quick and rapid style, and fer- 
mented processes are, in some cases, omitted and chem- 
icals appplied to save labor and time, but the main prin- 
ciples in ordinary baking have changed but little during 

the course of several generations. 

Shapes used in baking bread depends largely on the 
taste of the baker, but small or narrow loaves are the best, 



21 

so the heat can easily penetrate them and causes good 
evaporation, which makes bread sweeter. 

French and Vienna bread if properly baked is the best 
in the world, on account of being made into narrow 
loaves, and quickly baked. In Paris they make loaves 
six feet long and only four inches in diameter, and free 
from contact with each other in the oven, which gives 
chance for rapid evaporation, making the bread sweet and 
palatable, so in Vienna bread made for sale never weighs 
over one and a half pounds — the loaves are cut a half 
dozen times across on top before being put into the oven, 
to give room for expansion caused by evaporation and are 
baked in the same way as French loaves. Vienna loaves 
are sometimes formed into rings so. as to give a better 
chance for evaporation. 

In Germany large loaves are principally the rye or 
common wheat bread, which is fermented with leaven or 
sour dough left over from the previous baking, such 
dough receives a different treatment from fancy white 
bread : when the dough is finished water is thrown over 
it and worked in as hard as men can work it. 

Dough troughs are generally made out of one piece of 
stone. I have seen one a hundred and fifty years old^ and 
in good condition yet, 



22 



FLOUR. 

Good flour will, in all cases, be the main factor in baking 
good bread. ''Feeble" flour, for example, needs very 
brief treatment, which means the sponge and dough pro- 
cess should be of short duration, and should not suffer 
much solution — should be treated, what bakers call kindly 
— in other words, as soon as the sponge is beginning to 
fall, it should be turned into dough, and the same from 
dough into shapes or loaves, then, if baked in pans, should 
have full time to rise ; bake well in moderate heat. 

Sponge and dough should be made stifl", and can be a 
little more salted than strong flour. 

"Feeble" flour produces less gummy matter during 
the dough process ; is consequently not so rich in elasti- 
city, has less flesh-forming matter, called fibrin ; more 
heat-giving or starchy matter ; therefore, it needs stiffer 
sponge and dough, because it does not absorb as much 
water; it makes white bread, however, if properly treated 
but it does not give us as much flesh food or albumen, 
it is only beauty. If an admixture of stronger flour 
is given, then it will improve. Bakers generally use it for 
pastry or beauty, is very easy detected, when flour gains 
moisture, during fermenting processes, it is not inferior 
flour, because it is taken from the best of wheat, but from 
the centre of the grain, which gives it beauty and softness, 
hence "feeble," 



!23 

Strong flour is just the reverse of " feeble " flour in looks 
and vigor, and is taken closer from the inner side of the 
bran or the wall of the same grain as ** feeble " flour comes 
from the heart, and the other from closer to the hu}l, which 
makes* strong flour. 

Strong flour absorbs more water, which requires differ- 
ent treatment ; dough and sponge is made softer, it will 
gain dryness during the fermenting process, and is there- 
fore more profitable, has less heat but more flesh-forming 
matter, called albumen, is consequently more nourishing, 
is cheaper, if it does cost more, and is better adapted for 
bread, while ** feeble " flour is better for pastry or beauti- 
fying strong flour, if taken from red spring wheat. 

If extremes in quality of flour are taken, one from the 
white of winter wheat, and the other close to the hull of 
red spring wheat, and if both are mixed together, will 
generally make good bread, because what one extreme 
lacks, the other has in excess, and through such mixture 
harmony, beauty, strength and nutriment will be produced. 
The strongest grades of flour are made fi"om spring wheat 
and are divided into three grades, "fancy," tal<en from the 
heart of the grain, " baker's," taken from close to the hull, 
and *' straight," called patent is made from the whole grain. 
The ** fancy " is generally used for pastry or family pur- 
poses, or fancy crackers, or Vienna rolls, or French split 
loaves, or English twist. *' The baker's " is used by bakers, 
and mixed with some other grades, 3ome times five differ- 



24 

ent kinds are put together to create a bouquet, and will, 
by mixing together, create good bread, and secure more 
safety from failure. 

But these three grades will shade off again in different 
sub-grades too numerous to mention, and the same thing 
is found in flour made from winter wheat. 

Inferior flour is different from "feeble" or strong 
flour. It is made from inferior wheat, grown on poor 
land in wet seasons, ill-matured by wet weather in ripen- 
ing time, some times sprouted, the grain has lost its 
germ, has nothing left to ferment with, consequently has 
no vigor, or is often spoiled by neglect in sweating time, 
which brings the quality down, then' after the miller gives 
it another kick and down it goes, like everything else 
that has a downward march. 

Such is inferior flour, and needs, therefore, no treat- 
ment at all ; it is already treated to death ; such flour is 
generally used for common crackers, because the germ is 
often gone, can fight no more in the fermenting process, 
and chemicals are applied as the last resource. 

Inferior flour has to be mixed very stiff, and common 
crackers need such material, because the flour is naturally 
sweeter, like malt, where sugar can only be extracted after 
it has germed, and dried again before it is used. 



25 



YEAST. 

The following is an excellent recipe for making about 
two gallons of yeast : 

Boil a half dozen good size, ripe potatoes ; when done, 
put in a small bag two ounces of good hops, let these 
boil about five minutes ; (that boiling longer is necessary 
is an exploded theory) then scald a handful of flour with 
this hop water, work it well to a paste ; then thin it out 
with balance of hop water, cool to milk warm ; put in 
two handsful of Malt and a half pint of yeast, stir it well 
together and set it away where it can not be disturbed for 
twenty-four hours, where the temperature is even, after 
this strain and keep in cool place. 

Bakers divide their yeast into two parts ; in the first part 
what is called stock yeast the potatoes are omitted, and 
in the second part the malt is omitted, and a couple handsful 
of flour is added. Stock yeast is only used for yeasling. 
The second part is made every time baking is required, is 
called potato yeast and is ready for use in from eight to 
ten hours. Stock yeast is only made twice a week. 

When yeast is perfectly done all watery part will 
come to the surface, pour some of it off, if strong yeast 
is desired, or if bread has a bitter taste from excessive 
use of hops. If yeast is impure or bitter from age, throw 
in a few large pieces of fresh burnt charcoal, it will ab- 
sorb all impurities contracted by age, also, most of the 



26 

tanic acid from hops. To find out whether yeast is ready 
for use hold a burning match into the vessel of your 
yeast, if it goes out then yeast is not done yet, if it burns 
yeast is perfectly done and ready for use. Yeast should 
be uncovered when falling or in third stage to oxidize, 
air is very necessary for yeast. 

Greasy or fatty substances are inimical to yeast, 
particularly soap, which should never be used for clean- 
ing vessels in which yeast is kept. Washing, steaming 
and airing are only necessary. 

PROCESS OF YEAST. 

Yeast has to go through three stages, before it is ready 
for use. In the first stage it lays apparently quiet, which is 
not the case, however; it is in a dissolving state, it dis- 
solves flour, malt, and potatoes into soluble starch, and 
takes a little over two hours to do this, when it begins 
the second stage it commences to rise and converts 
starch into sugar and dextrine, and will continue this 
until fully raised. As soon as yeast begins to fall, the 
third and last stage commences, and during this, the 
sugar and dextrine are converted into carbonic acid gas 
or alcohol. 

I Alcohol will work its way through sponge and dough 

i until it comes in contact with heat of the oven or stove, 

■ then it begins to evaporate and leaves the flour in its 



27 

previous state, after its mission is over to make bread 
porous and palatable. 

To make an illustration to show at the same time how 
yeast can be made without stock, and the process it under- 
goes, take a pint vial, put into it two ounces of powdered, 
pure sugar, a tablespoonful of malt and a little ginger, then 
fill the bottle one-half full of warm water ; stir it up, and set 
it any place where the temperature is regular and not below 
sixty degrees Fahrenheit ; let it remain undisturbed forty- 
eight hours ; then take it out and add flour to it suffi- 
cient to make a very thin paste, let it stand twenty- four 
hours longer and you have yeast to start with, and on 
the other hand the process of making can be observed 
through the glass vial. 

Every little bubble that you see arise is an explosion 
of a new yeast cell, this goes on until the whole mass is 
worked through and finished in forty-eight hours, then 
when the flour is added the transformations begin ; boil 
yeast and stock it, and the new start is made. 

SPONGE. 

When flour, yeast and water are mixed, it is called 
sponge, and when this is to be made, be careful to 
have the three ingredients of the same temperature, and 
keep them so if possible. According to time allowed 
sponge to rise, have corresponding temperature, when 



28 

flour is not strong less time is to be allowed than if 
strong, good flour is used. 

In good sponge lies the beginning of good bread, and 
if these rules are not adhered to, poor bread will be the 
result. 

Sponge should consist of one-third of the flour in- 
tended for baking, unless the yeast is very strong when 
something less will do. 

Sponge should always be well mixed, and nearly one- 
half as stiff as dough, if it has to stand a long time it 
should be well worked and not strongly yeasted, or it will 
make bread dark, crumby and acidous, and unfit to eat. 

DOUGH. 

Dough should be made according to the condition 
of the sponge, and the quality of the flour used. 
If flour is '' strong," then make soft dough, if flour is 
"feeble" dough should be stiff"; if very inferior flour is 
used, then make no sponge at all make dough at once 
from the yeast and very stifl", because flour made from 
inferior or sprouted wheat will run, and increase in 
moisture. Inferior flour is very sweet however. 

Harmony of tempeiature should exist and dough 
should not be exposed to the air. 

Strongly yeasted doughs should be well worked, also 
the dough of well -matured sponge. 



29 

Hence we see, moisture, temperature, time and 
measure are all important factors in producing good 
bread — and if these are not observed, the best material 
will fail to produce good bread. 

WATER. 

Water for stock yeast should be soft, on account of 
having less mineral matter, which is inimical to good 
yeast, therefore should be avoided when possible. 

In potato yeast it does not make so much difference as 
it is not intended to be kept long. Hard or limestone 
water is very good for dough, however, more so if flour 
is of poor quality. 

SALT. 

Good salt should be used in baking, but not to ex- 
cess, particularly where butter and sugar are used in fer- 
mented cakes. Too much salt in bread is not healthy, 
neither is it pleasant to the taste, it checks the activity of 
fermentation ; more salt may be used in the summer 
season, when fermentation is sometimes too rapid any- 
way, than in winter when good fermentation is neces- 
sary. 

HOPS. 

Hops are generally believed to be a fermenting power, 
but this is a great mistake, they only keep yeast fresh, and 
in good state. 



30 

Hops should never be boiled long — the only purpose 

of boiling is to extract the bitter, which is the protector 

of yeast. 

Hops are used more in summer, as there is more 

danger then of yeast souring. 

A Substitute for Hops. — 'White Balsam, commonly 
called Sweet- Scented Everlasting, grows about two feet 
high on poor hilly land, is well known by its silvery- 
looking leaves on the underside, and by its small 
clustered yellowish white flowers," makes an excellent 
substitute for hops. It should be gathered at the be- 
ginning of September, and should be well aired and 
dried in the shade for winter use. People living in the 
country can safely dispose of hops and instead use this 
flower. " The leaves have strong medical properties, and 
are useful for dysentery and for weak lungs, made into a 

tea. If chewed is good for sore mouth, is also a remedy 

for flesh wounds." 

MALT. 

Malt is used for its starch and sugar^ and is, therefore, 
a carbonic acid or alchohol producer. It should be used 
in very moderate quantity in summer when more hops 
are required, and in greater quantity in winter when bread 
needs stronger yeast, and less hops are used. 

POTATOES. 

Potatoes and flour in yeast have the property of produc- 
ing carbonic acid or alcohol, almost the same as malt, and 
it is gas in bread which makes it porous. 



31 

CHEMICALS. 

By these are understood cakes that are raised with 
chemicals, such as bi -carbonate of soda or baking soda, 
baking powder, cream of tartar, saleratus and carbonate 
of ammonia. All of these are chemical salts, and will 
evaporate when they come in contact with oven heat and 
are not dangerous to human organism, as many people 
suppose. 

These chemicals nearly all belong to the same family. 
The richer the cakes are in butter and sugar, the stronger 
chemicals have to be applied, but proportioned by exact 
weight, or else they will give cakes a rich appearance 
without possessing richness, as they harden as soon as 
they are ten hours old. All cakes manufactured for 
grocery stores are made in this way to keep them from 
reactmg when packed in boxes for sale. 

Bi-carbonate of soda, is soda of double strength andin 
a pure state, it is extensively used in the manufacture of 
baking powders. It is also a purifier in many ways. 

A little used in cooking fruits such as cranberries, straw- 
berries, and others that are of a heavy acidous nature 
will lose that tartish taste and will save sugar. A little in 
milk will keep it sweet longer. A little thrown in sour yeast 
will cause it to foam and thereby rid it of its impurities. 

Carbonate of soda is the same as bi-carbonate, only 
half as strong. 



32 

Saleratus is the same in a crude state and not so pure. 
Baking soda is the same, only of more strength. 

Baking powder is made of one-half bi-carbonate of 
soda and the other half of cream of tartar. 

Carbonate of ammonia or hartshorn is a volatile salt 
which will evaporate one- third of its weight when ex- 
posed to the air, and will also all evaporate when it 
comes in contact with oven heat. When used, exact 
weight is required, and should be well dissolved in water. 

Acetic acid or concentrated vinegar can be gained 
from frozen apple cider vinegar. When the vinegar is 
frozen remove the icy part, which is only water, acetic 
acid is found in solution in the remaining part, can be 
used for pickling or for medical purposes, or in icing for 
ornamenting cakes, will evaporate to some extent, which 
will reduce vinegar in great quantity when exposed to 
freezing in winter time. 

SPICES AND EXTRACTS. 

When spices or extracts of flavoring are used, care 
should be taken that they are pure, and not compounds of 
unknown barks, or of drugs of which the market is full. 

In Germany and France if adulterations in spices are 
offered for sale and detected, the goods are confiscated 
and destroyed, and the seller heavily punished by law. 

Extracts of Flavors, when impure are not flavors at 
all. 



33 

For lemon flavoring, the oil is the best ; for vanilla 
flavoring, the bean simmered in water should be used 
for ice creams and custards. 

When spices of different kinds are used they should 
harmonize, and in all cases be sifted into the flour. 

Measure and weight are to be given careful considera- 
tion in baking calses, or else failures will result. The use 
of cups is not a correct nor practical method of measur- 
ing. Pints and pounds are the proper things, and many 
women have spoiled enough material in a single baking 
to buy herself a pair of scales or a pint measure. If con- 
fectioners and bakers would adopt such measurement a 
Babylonian confusion "would be created, and no end to 
failures. 

Where recipes are too large, divide into halves or 
thirds, and if small weights are necessary for weighing 
chemicals, use pennies; three large pennies weigh an 
ounce ; for one-third, use one penny. Five, five cent 
pieces weigh one ounce ; for one-fifth, use one five 
cent piece. Ten small pennies weigh one ounce — so pen- 
nies can be used up to tens of ounces. One pint of water 
or milk weigh one pound ; ten eggs measure one pint. 

GENERAL RULE FOR MIXING CAKES. 

Rub sugar and butter or lard together, then add eggs ; 
the smaller the mixture, the less eggs at a time, to be 
poured in. 



34 

Dissolve all chemicals first in a little water, and 
when the time comes to use them, pour the milk over them, 
and add to the mixture after the eggs, then flavor, then 
add the flour ; if spices are used, sift them into the flour ; 

never rub sugar and butter too much when chemicals are 
used. 

LAW AND ORDER. 

While measure, time, temperature and weight are all 
essential to good baking, good judgment is also necessary. 
For instance, where flour is too feeble, it will make a soft 
dough in cakes the same as in bread. So flour should 
weigh strong. If on the other hand, it should be strong 
spring wheat flour, then it should be reduced in weight 
two ounces per pound. If sugar is supposed to be in_ 
ferior, then four ounces per pound should be added. Im- 
pure sugar has a grey and greasy look ; gets hard and 
crusty when exposed to air. 

If molasses is inferior or dark, burn some alum on the 
stove, powder it and put it into the molasses, it will make 
cakes a grade brighter in color. Honey should be used 
with the comb. 

Order should exist in all well regulated bake -rooms 
When work is over, tools should be well cleaned and 
dried and put in their proper place, so if required in a 
hurry work will not be retarded, and valuable time lost 

m 

In looking for them. 



35 

Cleanliness — the first and last of all things in baking — be 
strictly clean. No one will ever make a mark or a repu- 
tation for good work in the world of trade, unless they 
are clean and adhere to this as their greatest law in making 
up eatables for sale. 

Have your pans for baking warmed before they are 
rubbed off before greasing. Cakes, bread and pies are 
worth only half price if not clean when offered for 
sale. Want of attention to this important matter has often 
caused a blush of shame on an employer's face through 
the neglect of his employees. 

Clean men make clean work, and, therefore, command 
and deserve higher wages. 

One ounce of corn starch is an. equivelant to one ^^^ 
in molasses mixtures, but the same amount of milk or 
water in measure must be used, to replace ^%% moisture. 

If fruit cakes are wanted to keep any length of time, 
soak your fruit in liquor one day ahead, well covered 
in a strong jar. 

If cake dough gets too sticky in summer time, use a 
little corn starch in your flour. 

Rub the stems off the fruit for fruit cake, with flour. 
Washing fruit in water will take away the flavor. 



The following cake recipes are all practically correct, 
or experimentally true, and if the preceding rules are 
observed and strictly adhered to, anybody with little 
knowledge of baking can in a short time, produce what 
these recipes call for. To avoid mistakes and for con- 
venience sake, all ingredients are set down in routine, 
just as they are to be used, but always recognize the fact, 
that only " practice makes perfect " and " habit is second 
nature"; from work done we can only see who has gained 
excellence from such practice. 

Baking cakes or bread should never be an accidental 
affair, as often remarked, I had good luck in baking 
cakes or bread to-day, there is no such thing as good 
or bad luck in baking, but there are such things as 
ignorance and non- observation of natural laws and their 
consequences on one hand, and mind and correct judg- 
ment on the other, which makes all the difference between 
good or bad luck, but it serves to cover up faults, how- 
ever. 



37 

WHITE LADY CAKE. 

// 2}{ lbs. Powd. Sugar. ^ /^ , 

# 1^4 " Butter. ^ ^O ^ 

^</ .. 1 qt- White of Egg. . a/o\L^ 

f//^\ 2){ lbs. Flour. ^2. '^ « -^-^^ 

/ /^ Rose or vanilla flavor. ^ ^j « 

^ Rub sugar and butter to whiteyfoam. Beat white of 
eggs to foam. 

Then add the ^%% to butter and sugar, mix well. Then 
flavor and add flour. 

If the cake is wanted very light, add a little baking 
powder. 

This mixture is best for wedding cake ; can also be 

used for large citron or currant cake; is baked in 

moderate oven ; have moulds well greased and papered. 

GOLDEN CAKE. 

2^ lbs. Powd. Sugar. 

\y^ '' Butter. 

1]i " Flour. 

1 qt. Eggs, half yellow. 

Lemon or vanilla flavor. 

This mixture is also for large cake and • made the 

■ 

same way ; can also be used for citron or raisin cakes ; 
use Sultuna raisins ; add a little brandy or whisky ; if 
lemon flavor is used, add a little nutmeg ; bake in cool 
oven, and bake in square, large moulds ; have them well 
greased and papered. 



38 

MARBLE CAKE. 

18 ozs. Powd. Sugar. 

10 " Butter. 

1 pt. White of Eggs. 

Lemon flavor. 

Mix like White Lady Cake ; before putting flour in, 

divide the mixture, and put j^ lb. of grated chocolate in 

one part, then put 9 ozs. of flour in each part, then put it 

in thin layers in greased papered pans, and bake it like 

White Lady Cake. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

1 lb. Powd. Sugar. 

1 " Butter. 

14 Eggs. 

1 lb. Flour. 

Lemon, cinnamon and nutmeg flavor. 

Mix this like pound cake ; then add fruit. 

Ij4 lbs. Sultan Raisins. 

1^ " Currants. 

}( '* Citron Shell. 

Have fruit well cleaned, and citron chopped fine; 

soak fruit well in brandy or good whiskey, in stone jar, 

one day before using. 



39 



POUND CAKE. 

2^ lbs. Powd. Sugar. 

1}( " Butter. 

2}{ " Flour. 

1 qt. Egfgs. 

1 gill Brandy. 

Lemon or nutmeg flavor. 

Rub sugar and butter well, near to a foam ; beat eggs 
up well, then add them to sugar slowly ; add brandy and 
flavor ; then flour ; if wanted very light add a little baking 
powder to flour — slow oven. 



NEW YORK POUND CAKE. 

2 lbs. Powd. Sugar. 
1>^ lbs. Butter. 
1 pt. Eggs. 
}i pt. Milk. 
}4 oz. Baking Powder. 
^2 " Cream Tartar. 
2y2 lbs. Flour. 
Lemon and nutmeg flavors. 

Mix like cup cake ; bake in large moulds ; bake in 
moderate oven. 



40 



COMMON POUND CAKES. 

1 lb. Powd. Sugar. 
1 " Butter. 
1 doz. Eggs. 
1 lb. Flour. 

Lemon or vanilla flavor. 

Work this mixture like other pound cake ; bake in slow 
oven. 

JELLY CAKE, NO. 1. 

1 lb. Powd. Sugar. 

^ lb. Butter. 

Yt. oz. Ammonia. 

1 pt. Milk. 

8 Eggs, more yellow than white. 

Lemon flavor. 

Ij^ lbs. Flour. 

Rub sugar and butter well ; add eggs one by one ; 
add milk, ammonia, and flavor, then flour. 

Never mix until ready for use; spread it on round 
pans, well greased and a little flour dusted ; bake in 
moderate oven. 

This mixture can also be used for cocoanut or cream 
layer cake. 



41 

JELLY CAKE, NO. 2. 

lyi lbs. Powd. Sugar. 

^ " Butter. 

1 pt. Egg, half yellow. 

% oz. Baking Powder. 

1 pt. Milk. 

2% lbs. Flour. 

Lemon flavor. 

This is mixed like Jelly Cake, No. 1, only baking 
powder is sifted in flour ; can also be used for cocoanut 
or cream cake. • 

For cream or cocanut cake beat white of e^g to stiff" 
foam, with enough sugar to sweeten it ; spread it on in- 
stead of jelly, then sprinkle with prepared cocoanut. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

\% lbs. Powdered Sugar. 

1 lb. Butter. 

1 pt. White of Eggs. 

1% lbs. Flour, with 1 oz. Baking Powder. 

Lemon flavor. 

Rub sugar and butter to white foam, beat eggs up to 
foam, add it slowly, flavor, then add flour with baking 
powder, spread it on jelly cake pans, bake in moderate 
oven, then beat five white of eggs with 6 ozs. of powdered 
sugar well, and put it between layers. 



42 



CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE. 

Sy^ lbs. Sugar. 

iy2 '' Butter. 

^ "' Ground Almonds. 

12 Yolks of Eggs. 

18 White of Eggs. 

}( lb. Grated Chocolate. 

yi oz. Baking Powder. 

Mix sugar, butter, prepared almonds and chocolate 
together, then add yolk df egg, beat white of egg to 
foam and add it, then flour, with baking powder, bake 
in jelly cake moulds in moderate heat ; custard to put be- 
tween layers. 

FELLING. 

1 pt. Milk. 

6 ozs. Sugar. 

2 " Chocolate. 

3 Eggs. 

2 ozs. Corn Starch. 

Boil milk ; mix sugar, chocolate and corn starch ; when 
stift enough, take it off and stir eggs in ; when cooL 
spread between layers. 



\ 



\ 



43 



CUP CAKE.— No. 1. 

1 % lbs. Powd. Sugar. 
^ " Butter. 

^ Pt« Eggs. 

1 " Milk. 

^ oz. Ammonia, or 1 oz. baking powder. 

2^ lbs. Flour. 

Lemon flavor. 

Mix this like jelly cake mixture ; for small cakes use 
ammonia, and for large cake use baking powder ; have 
moulds well greased and flour dusted ; bake in moder- 
ate oven. 

CUP CAKE.— No. 2. 

1 lb. Sugar. 
% " Butter. 
8 Eggs. 
1 qt. Milk. 

1 oz. Baking Powder. 
Lemon flavor. 

2 lbs. Flour. 

Mix like Cup Cake, No. 1; this mixture is used for 
large cakes; have moulds greased and flour dusted. 



44 



COMMON CUP CAKES. 

\}i lbs. Sugar. 
% " Butter. 
8 Eggs. 

1 qt. Miik. 

2 ozs. Baking Powder. 
Lemon flavor. 

3 lbs. Flour. 

Bake in small moulds in moderate heat. 



SPONGE CAKE. 

1 lb. Powd. Sugar. 

1 " Flour. 

1 doz. Eggs. 

Lemon flavor. 

Beat sugar and eggs until it is stifl", flavor and add 
flour. 

If lady-fingers are wanted, use one-third of more yel- 
low. 

Lady-fingers are spread on paper ; with biscuit bag 
sift powdered sugar over ; shake it ofl"; bake in moderate 
oven ; when baked wash paper on reverse side, take 
them off and stick two together. 



45 



WATER SPONGE CAKE. 

1 lb. Sugar. 

1 Cup Boiling Water. 
5 Eggs. 

^ lb. Flour. 

Dissolve sugar in boiling water, beat eggs and during 
beating pour dissolved sugar in, keep beating, when up, 
flavor, then add flour ; bake in large moulds, in slow oven. 

FRENCH CAKES. 

2 lbs. Powd. Sugar. 
1}( lbs. Butter. 

8 Eggs, more yellow. 

^ pt. Milk. 

}4 oz. Ammonia. 

Vanilla flavor. 

3J^ lbs. Flour. 

Rub sugar and butter well ; add eggs one by one ; 
add milk and ammonia, flavor ; then flour. 

Roll dough out, and cut with plain cutter ; lay cakes 
on a board ; wash them, then throw them on granulated 
sugar ; bake in moderate oven. 

This is one of the richest cut cakes, mix prepared 
cocoanut or macroon crumbs in granulated sugar. 



46 



CORN STARCH CAKE. . 

1 doz. Eggs. 
1 lb. Sugar. 

1 " Corn Starch. 

2 ozs. Flour. 
Lemon flavor. 

Beat like sponge cake, mix corn sUrch and flour 
together ; bake in large moulds, in SI9.W oven. 

ROCK CAKES. 

3 lbs. Powd. Sugar. 

2 *' Lard. 

3 White, of Eggs. 
3 pts. Milk. 

2 ozs. Ammonia. 

Lemon flavor. 

6 lbs Flour. 

Rub sugar and lard to white foam ; add eggs, then 
milk and ammonia, and flavor, then flour. 

Roll out ; rougher the tops with tin scraper ; cut out 
with plain cutter ; put raisin in center ; bake in quick 
oven. 



4? 

FREMONT CAKES. 

3 lbs. Powd. Sugar. 
1^ ** Butter or Lard. 

1 pt. Eggs. 

2 pts. Milk. 

2 ozs. Ammonia. 

Lemon flavor. 

6 lbs. Flour. 

Rub Sugar and Butter well and eggs, then milk and 
ammonia ; flavor the flour. This is a cut cake and baked 
in moderate heat. 

CRESCENT CAKE. 

1}{ lbs. Powd. Sugar. 

^ '' Butter. 

1 doz. Eggs, more yellow. 

}( oz. Baking Powder. 

l}{ lbs. Flour. 
Lemon flavor. 

Rub sugar and butter to foam ; beat eggs up well, then 

add them, then flavor; sift baking powder in flour; 

spread dough out in sheet on heavy greased and papered 

bread p^n ; use moderate heat; when baked, cut in two 

parts ; spread jelly on one part ; cover the other over, iced 

top, then cut half moons oiit with small plain cutter, dip 

cutter in water when cutting ; practice in flour how to cut, 

or cut in squares. 



48 



WASHINGTON CAKE. 

1 lb. Powdered Sugar. 
Yi '' Butter. 
^ pt. Eggs. 
y, '' Milk. 
Yi oz. Armenia. 
3 lbs. Flour. 
Lemon flavor. 

Mix on general rule ; cut with Star cutter ; wash, 
and throw on granulated sugar ;^ bake in moderate oven. 



COCOANUT CAKES. 

1 lb. Powd. Sugar. 

10 Eggs, half yellow. 

1 lb. Flour. 

Lemon flavor. 

Beat like sponge mixture ; drop out on paper like 
lady-fingers, only round shape ; put prepared cocanut 
with as much powd. sugar over them ; baked and taken 
ofl" like lady-fingers. 



49 



DOMESTIC CAKES. 

2 lbs. Sugar. 
1 lb. Butter. 
8 Eggs. 
i^ pt Milk. 
y^ oz. Ammonia. 
4>^ lbs. Flour. 
Cinnamon flavor. 

Mix lile Fremont Cake ; cut out with star cutter ; wash 
them ; bake in moderate oven. 



CHOCOLATE WASHINGTON CAKE. 

1 lb. Powd. Sugar. 

10 ozs. Butter., 

V^ pt. Eggs. 

y, '' Milk. 

yi oz. ammonia. 

1 }i lb. Flour. 

^ " Chocolate. 

Mix like other cut cakes, only mix chocolate in flour ; 
wash them, and throw them on granulated sugar ; bak^ 
in moderate heat. 



50 



CAKE TARTS. 

1 lb. Sugar. 
10 ozs. Butter. 
4 Eggs. 

J< pt. Milk. 

yi ozs. Ammonia. 

2 lbs. Flour. 
Lemon flavor. 

Mix on general rule ; cut with small plain cutter ; when 
on pans press out in center ; wash with e^'g ; put a drop 
of jelly in the center ; bake in a very hot oven ; when 
baked put a few ic'ng drops around the jelly drop. 

PARIS CHOCOLATE DROPS. 

Yt. lb. Sugar. 
y^ " Butter. 
y^ " Currants. 
y ** Chocolate. 
y Qz, Ammonia. 
Yo, lb. Flour. 

Mix like pound cake ; bake in small moulds, in slow 
oven ; when baked, use Chocolate icing. 



51 



LONDON DROPS. 

J^ lb. Sugar. 
% " Butter. 
7 Yolks of Eggs. 
1 pt. Milk. 

1 oz. Ammonia. 

1 2 ozs. Corn Starch. 

2 lbs. Flour. 
Lemon flavor. 

Mix after general rule ; bake in small moulds, in moder- 
ate heat. 



LEMON DROPS. 

^ lb. Sugar. 
y2 "' Lard. 

1 pt. New Orleans Molasses. 
1 " Water. 
1 oz. Baking Soda. 
2>^ lbs. Flour. 
Lemon flavor or lemon rind. 

Mix like Drop Cake, and drop in small scolloped 
moulds, greased and dusted ; bake in moderate heat 



52 



COCOANUT DROPS. 

1^ lbs. Powd. Sugar. 

1}{ " Butter. 

8 Eggs. 

^ lb. Prepared Cocoanut. 

1 '' Flour 

}( oz. Baking Powder. 
Orange flavor — water. 

Mix like Half-moon mixture ; drop them out on greased 
and dusted pans ; bake in moderate oven. 

PLAIN COOKIES. 

2 lbs. Powd. Sugar. 
1 oz. Ammonia. 

1 pt. Milk. 

1 lb. Butter. 

4 '' Flour. 

Lemon flavor. 

Rub flour and butter until granulated ; dissolve sugar 
in milk and ammonia, and flavor ; and add, like making 
pie crust ; don't work it much ; roll out, and cut with 
plain cutter ; put raisins in center of cake ; bake in 
moderate oven. 



63 



PLAIN CHOCOLATE COOKIE. 

1 lb. Powd. Sugar. 
y^ " Butter. 

y^ pt. Milk. 

J^ oz. Ammonia. 

2 lbs Flour. 

% lb. Grated Chocolate. 

Dissolve sugar and ammonia in milk ; rub flour and 
butter together like pie crust ; before putting milk in mix 
in chocolate ; cut with Star Cutter, and iced on top ; bake 
in moderate heat. 



COMMON SUGAR CAKES. 

3 lbs. Powd. Sugar. 
Xy^ lbs. Lard. 
3 White of Eggs. 
3 pts. Water or Milk. 
6 lbs. Flour. 
Lemon flavor. 

Mix like Rock Cakes ; use what cutter you please ; it 
is generally used for Christmas toys ; bake slow. 



64 



ANIS CAKES. 

2 lbs. Powd. Sugar. 

25 Eggs. 

% lb. Anis Seed. 

5 lbs. Flour. 

Stir eggs and sugar in wooden bowl ; add anis seed ; 
a pinch of ammonia ; dough must be stiff and dry. 

Roll out, lay on figure mould ; press it in well ; turn 
out and cut cakes off the size of figures ; set on greased 
pan ; set them in air to crust on top ; then bake in very 
cool oven. 

JUMBLES. 

2 lbs. Powd. Sugar. 

1^ " Butter. 

1 pt Eggs, more yellow. 

1 " Milk. 

1 oz. Ammonia. 

Lemon flavor. 

3>4 lbs. Flour. 

Mix like Drop Cake mixture; squeze them out on 
greased and dusted pans, with jumble horn ; bake same 
heat as Drop Cakes. 



55 



JUMBLES No. 2. 

1 lb. Sugar. 
10 ozs. Butter. 
6 Eggs. 

y^ pt. Milk. 

1 oz. Ammonia. 
Lemon flavor. 

2 lbs. flour. 

Mix after general rule, and lay them out like other 
jumbles. 

FRENCH JUMBLES. 

1 lb. Sugar. 
1 " Butter. 
y2 pt. Eggs. 
1 lb. Flour. 
Lemon flavor. 

Mix like Pound Cake, and lay them on pans, as other 
jumbles. 



56 



CURRANT JUMBLES. 

2 lbs. Powd. Sugar. 
1}( lbs. Butter. 
>^pt. Eggs. 
1 pt. Milk. 

1 lb. Currants, chopped. 
j4 oz. Ammonia. 
Lemon flavor. 
4 lbs. Flour. 

Mix like any other cut cake dough ; roll out and cut 
with ring cutter ; wash them and bake in moderate oven. 

COCOANUT JUMBLES. 

1 lb. Powd. Sugar. 
^ " Butter. 
1 doz. Eggs, more yellow. 
y2 pt. Milk. 
^2 OZ. Ammonia. 
Lemon flavor. 
1^ Flour. 

6 ozs. Prepared Cocoanut. 

Mix like other jumble dough, only mix cocoanut in 
flour. 



57 



ANGEL'S food; PROPER. 

1 pt. White of eggs. 

% lb. Sugar. 

}i " Corn Starch. 

}i Teaspoonful Cream Tartar. 

Rose flavor. 

The white of eggs is beaten to a stiff* froth ; dust in. 
during beating, two ounzes of sugar. The sugar, corn 
starch and cream of tartar is all sifted together ; then flavor 
and bake very slow in well greased papered pans. 

ANGEL'S FOOD. 

1 qt. White of Eggs. 

1^ lbs. Powd. Sugar. 

1% *' Flour. 

}i oz. Cream Tartar. 

Flavor with Orange flower water. 

Beat eggs with one-third of the sugar as stiff" as for 
cream puffs. 

Mix balance of sugar in flour and cream of tartar and 
sift in together ; then add it. 

Bake in square moulds, well greased and papered 
bake in very cool oven. 



58 



BOSTON CREAM PUFFS. 

1 pt. Water. 

y^ lb. Lard. 

13 Eggs. 

J^ lbs. Flour. 

A pinch of Ammonia. 

Custard for above. 
2>^ pts. Milk. 

14^ lbs. Powd. Sugar. 

5 ozs. Corn Starch. 

6 Eggs. 

Lemon or vanilla flavor. 

Boil water and lard until lard is all melted ; then stir in 
flour very fast ; when well mixed take it off* the fire and 
keep stirring until well worked ; then let cool in wooden 
bowl ; then work eggs in slow ; then add ammonia ; when 
well rubed in, drop them on well greased and slightly 
dusted pans ; wash them ; then bake in moderate oven ; 
when baked, cut cake open on the side and blow steam out ; 
then they are ready for filling ; boil milk ; mix sugar and 
corn starch together ; then stir it in milk ; let boil until 
thick; take it off* the fire; then stir eggs in; flavor it; 
when cool, fill in cakes a small tablespoonful. 



59 



COCOANUT MACAROONS. 

2}i lbs. Prepared Cocoanut. 

\}i " Powd. Sug^ar. 

2 White of Eggs. 

Put these three articles together in a copper kettle and 
mix it well ; then put it over a slow fire, and keep stirring ; 
when it boils, keep from burning ; when stiff enough take 
it off; when cool, add enough white of eggs to make it as 
stiff as other macaroon dough, and work them out on 
papered pans, and bake them the same way as other mac- 
aroons. 



JELLY FINGERS. 

1 lb. Powd. Sugar. 

14 Eggs, half yellow. 

1 lb. Flour. 

Beat like sponge cake ; spread out on papered pan ; 
bake in moderate oven ; spread jelly on one-half; cover 
the other half over ; ice with water icing ; then cut finger 
out with knife, size of Lady- finger. 



60 

MERINGUES. 

1 pt. White of Eggs. 

2 lbs. Powd. Sugar. 

Orange Flower Water. 

Beat the same as for puffs, full stiff; use half a pound of 
sugar during beating ; squeeze out with jumble horn, on 
watered and papered board of hard wood ; bake in cool 
oven ; when baked, slide them off on paper, and stick two 
together to form an egg ; put them on pan again ; put in 
oven to dry. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

1 pt. White of Eggs. 

2 lbs. Powd. Sugar. 

Beat the same like meringues; squeeze through jumble 
horn, on greased and dusted pan ; bake in very cool oven. 

COMMUNION BREAD. 

• 6 oz. Powd. Sugar. 
}4 lb. Butter. 

3 Whites of Egg. 
}i pt. Milk. 

j/s oz. Ammonia. 

Lemon flavor. 

Mix like other cut cake mixture ; roll out thin in a 
sheet ; put on pan ; mark out in half inch strips ; bake 
in moderate oven ; bake it well. 



61 



GINGERBREAD, 

1 qt. Molasses. 
Y-i '' Water or Buttermilk. 
1 oz. Baking Soda. 
J^ lb. Lard. 

Flour and ginger flavor. 

Roll out and spread it on large pans ; make dough as 
soft as possible, and bake in moderate oven. 



GINGER POUND CAKE. 

1 lb. Sugar. 

1 " Butter or Lard. 

1 qt. N. O. Molasses. 

1 '* Water, or Butter Milk. 
4 Eggs. 

4 lbs. Flour. 

2 oz. Baking Soda. 
Cinnamon and nutmeg flavor. 

Rub sugar and butter; add eggs ; then molasses ; then 
baking soda ; have spices sifted in flour. 

Bake in large, square pans, well greased and flour 
dusted ; bake in slow oven. 



62 



GINGER SNAPS. 

1^ lbs. Sugar. 

J^ lb. Lard. 

1 qt. New Orleans Molasses. 

/4 pt. Eggs. 

y^ " Water. 

1 oz. Baking Soda. 

% lb. Ginger. 

4>^ " Flour. 

Rub sugar and lard, then add eggs, then molasses, then 
water and soda, ginger sifted in flour; roll out in long 
strips ; cut in hickory-nut size ; put in sieve, and dust ; 
roll them round, then lay them out on pans ; flatten them 
out ; bake in slow C)ven. 

GINGER NUTS. 

1 lb. Sugar, '' Brown." 
1 " Lard. 

3 pts. New Orleans Molasses. 
Y-i pt. Water. 
1 oz. Baking Soda. 
% *^ Ginger ; Flour. 

Mix and work them put like Ginger Snaps ; don't flatten 
them out, and make stiffer dough ; bake in slow oven. 



63 



CITRON CAKES. 

1 lb. Sugar. 

% " Lard. 

1 pt. New Orleans Molasses. 

1 lb. Honey. 

1 oz. Baking Soda. 

6 Eggs. 

3>^ lbs. Flour. 

]/^ lb. Citron, chopped fine. 

1 oz. Nutmeg and Cinnamon. 

Mix this dough five or six hours before baking ; roll 
out in sheet ; rule and make out cake on pan, 8x2 inches 
in size ; bake in very slow oven ; when baked boil one and 
one-half pounds of sugar to string ; stir a little cool, 
then brush it on when white ; cut them out as marked 
out before. 

FROSTED cream: 

1 qt. New Orleans Molasses. 
^^ *' Lard. 

2 ozs. Baking Soda. 
y^ pt. Water. 

Flour, Cinnamon and Allspice. 

Mix and work out this cake ; finish it like Citron Cakes , 
bake in moderate oven. 



'if- 



64 

HONEY JUMBLES. 

1 lb. Sugar. 

^ ** Butter. 

1 '* Honey. 

1 pt. New Orleans Molasses. 

y2 " Eggs. 

1 oz. Baking Soda. 

Yi ** Ammonia. 

3>^ lbs. Flour. 

1 oz Cinnamon. 

A little Nutmeg. 

Mix like Ginger Snaps ; lay them out with jumble horn 
like other jumbles on greased and dusted pans ; bake in 
moderate heat. 

ROUGH AND READY, No. 1. 

^ lb. Sugar. 

6 ozs Lard. 

1 pt. New Orleans Molasses. 

y-z *' Water. 

1 oz. Baking Soda. 

2^ lbs. Flour. 
^ Allspice and Clove. 

Mix like any other cake ; roll out and cut, with oblong 
cutter ; wash them, and throw them on granulated sugar ; 
bake in slow oven. 



65 

ROUGH AND READY— No. 2. 
2 lbs. Brown Sugar. 

1 lb. Lard. 

1% pt. New Orleans Molasses. 
8 Eggs. 

2 oz. Baking Soda. 
1 pt. Water. 

yi lb. Cake Flour. 

Cinnamon and allspice ; mix after general rule, and use 
enough of flour to make dough ; roll out, cut in round 
shape, wash and throw them on granulated sugar, when 
on pans put a raisin in center ; bake in slow oven. 

FRENCH MACAROONS. 
2j^ lbs. Blanched Almonds. 

lyi pt. White of Eggs. 

\y2 lbs. Powd. Sugar. 

Rub almonds up with eggs until used up in stone 
mortar ; add sugar ; mix it up well ; then drop out size 
of hickory nut on papered pan ; bake in cool oven. 

CHOCOLATE MACAROONS. 

1^ lbs. Blanched almonds. 

1 pt. White of Eggs. 

2^ lbs. Powd. Sugar. 

% lb. Grated Chocolate. 

Made like French Macaroons, only mix chocolate in 
sugar ; bake in cool oven. 



n 



66 



TAYLOR CAKES, No. 1. 

5^ lb. Sugar 

34 " Lard. 

1 pt. New Orleans Molasses. 

1 " Water. 
8 Eggs. 

2 ozs. Baking Soda. 
2j4 lbs. Flour. 
Cinnamon and Allspice. 

Mix and drop them out like Drop Cake recipe, only 
bake in cooler oven; have pans greased and flour 
dusted. 



TAYLOR CAKE— No. 2. 

^ lbs. Brown Sugar. 
6 ozs. Lard. 
1 qt. Molasses. 
1 pt. Water. 
1 oz. Soda. 
3>^ lbs. Flour. 

Allspice and cloves ; mix like Taylor Cake No. 1 ; 
bake in moderate heat. 



67 



CITRON SNAPS. 

1 lb. Powd. Sugar. 
6 oz. Butter. 

6 Eggs. 

% oz. Ammonia. 

2 lbs. Flour. 
yi pt. Water. 

Mix like any other cut cake ; lay them out in hickory- 
nut size ; put a piece of citron on top of each ; bake in 
moderate oven. 



CINNAMON SNAPS. 

1% lb. Sugar. 

6 ozs. Lard. 

1 pt. New Orleans Molasses. 

4 Eggs. 

}( pt. Water. 

% oz. Baking Soda. 

4 '* Cinnamon. 

2^ lbs. Flour. 

Made up like Ginger Snaps, and baked the same. 



68 



BRANDY SNAPS. 

^ lb. Sugar. 

^ " Butter or Lard. 

1 qt. N. O. Moulasses. 

1 gill Brandy. 

^ oz. Baking Soda. 

y^ pt. Water. 

Cinnamon Flour. 

Mix like any other cake ; put in enough flour to make 
stiff" dough ; roll out in long strips and cut with knife ; 
laid out and flattened; bake in moderate oven. 

HONEY SNAPS. 

1 lb. Brown Sugar. 

6 ozs. Lard. 

1 lb. Honey. 

1 pt. New Orleans Molasses. 

6 Eggs. 

y^ pt. Water. 

1 oz. Soda. 

4 lbs. Flour. 

Cinnamon and Nutmeg. 

Make like Ginger Snaps ; bake in moderate oven. 



69 

SCOTCH CAKE— No. 1. 

1}4 lbs. Brown Sugar. 
1 lb. Lard. 

H Pt. Eggs. 

}4 '' Water. 

^ ozs. Baking Powder.- 

2)4 lbs. Flour. 

Cinnamon flavor; roll out thin, and bake in cool oven. 

SCOTCH CAKES— No. 2. 

Ij4 lbs. Brown Sugar. 

1 lb. Lard. 

j4 pt. Water. 

^ ozs. Soda. 

2}4 lbs Flour. 

Cinnamon flavor. 

Roll out thin ; cut plain ; bake in cool oven. 

CRULLERS— No. 1, 
. % lbs. Sugar. 
6 ozs. Butter. 
\y2 pt. Milk. 
4 Eggs. 

Yz oz. Ammonia. 
Ys " Cream Tartar. 
Lemon flavor. 
3 lbs. Flour. 

Roll out and cut like Ring Doughnuts, and bake in 
lard. 



70 



CRULLERS— No. 2. 

1 lb. Sugar. 

6 ozs. Butter. 

1 pt. Milk. 
4 Eggs. 

^ ozs. Ammonia. 
3 lbs. Flour. 

2 ozs. Corn Starch. 
Lemon flavor. 

Make like Ring Doughnuts. 

GOOD RING DOUGHNUTS. 

l}i lbs. Sugar. 
^ " Butter. 

7 Eggs. 

3 pts. Milk. 

j4 oz. Ammonia. 

j4 *' Cream Tartar. 

Lemon flavor. 

6 lbs. Flour. 

2 ozs. Corn Starch. 

Roll out, and cut with ring cutter, and bake in lard, 

turn them three times. 



71 



COMMON RING DOUGHNUTS. 

3 lbs. Sugar. 
2 " Butter or Lard. 
18 Eggs. 
1 gal. Milk. 

6 oz Baking Powder Flour. 
Flour enough for regular dough. 
Roll out and cut as other doughnuts, and enough 
flour to make dough stiff enough to roll out. 

TART PASTE. 

1 lb. Fresh Butter. 

1 '' Flour. 

Rub flour with one-fourth pound of butter, like mixing 
pie crust, then beat one yolk of egg with little brandy, 
and add enough ice water to make a stifl" dough, roll out 
in square shape half inch thick, lay on balance of butter 
in center, lap the dough over in book shape then roll out 
easy, then repeat lapping once more, lay it away for one- 
half hour, then lap it over again several times, cut out 
tarts to suit taste, make thick egg and milk washing and 
brush them over with these, bake in hot oven^ have butter 
not too soft or too hard, use ice water in summer, also 
lay dough away in cool place. 



72 

DROP CAKES. 
3 lbs. Powd. Sugar. 

2 '' Butter or Lard. 
1}4 pt. Eggs. 

3 pts. Milk. ' 

2 ozs. Ammonia. 

5 lbs. Flour. 

Lemon flavor. 

Rub sugar and butter well, and eggs, then milk and 
ammonia ; flavor, and flour. These cakes are baked after 
any other cut cake ; dropped on greased and dusted pans ; 
baked slow first until they are near up, then hotter. 

PIE DOUGH. 

1 lb. Flour. 

One- half lb. Lard or Butter or both. 
Water. 

Rub flour and butter well, if only lard is used put in a 
little salt, then add enough water to make dough to suit. 

CUSTARD FOR LEMON PIE. 

2 Lemons. 

1 lb. Sugar. 

}( " Corn Starch. 

2 Eggs, 

1 qt. Water. 

Mix sugar and corn starch ; add eggs ; then grate lemon 
rind in also juice ; work it into paste ; then mix water in ; 
this custard is for covered pies, and should be baked slowly. 



73 



KOUGLEOUPH. 

3 lbs. Bread Sponge. 

VX '' Butter. 

1^ " Sugar. 

1 qt. Milk 

1 lb. Sultana Raisins. 

^ Nutmeg. 

Yolks of 6 Eggs. 

Mix butter and sugar in milk and work it to sponge ; 
flavor ; use enough flour to make a very soft dough ; then 
fill in moulds ; earthen moulds are the best ; let them fully 
rise ; bake in slow oven. 

SODA BISCUIT— No. 1. 

1 lb. Flour. 

^ " Butter. 

^ pt. Milk. 

1}4 oz. Baking Powder. 

Rub flour and butter well ; have baking powder sifted 
in flour ; then add milk, and mix lightly ; roll out in thick 
sheet, and cut with plain cutter ; set on pan one-half inch 
a part, and bake in hot oven. 



74 



SODA BISCUITS— No. 2. 

3 lbs. Flour. 

One-half pound Butter. 

3 ozs. Baking Powder. 

Milk. 

•Rub flour, butter and baking powder, then add enough 
milk to make dough stiff enough to rollout ; set them a 
half inch apart ; wash them on top ; bake in quick oven. 



SUGAR BISCUITS. 

1 lb. Flour. 
li " Butter. 
}( " Sugar. 

4 Yellow of Eggs. 
}4 pt. Milk. 

2 ozs. Baking Powder. 

Rub sugar, flour, butter and baking powder well ; beat 
egg and milk together before put in ; mix very lightly. 
Roll out near one inch thick, and cut with small plain 
cutter ; wash with egg on top ; bake in hot oven. 



75 

BUTTER BISCUIIS. 

2 lbs. Flour. 
One- half pound Butter. 
4 ozs. Baking Powder. 
4 Yellow Eggs. 
1 pt. Milk. 

Mix like other Biscuits ; wash them on top ; bake in 
quick oven to brown color. 

INDIAN POUND CAKE. 

1 pt. Milk. 

1 " Butter Milk. 

% " Eggs. 

yi oz. Baking Soda. 

Corn Meal. 

A pinch of Salt. 

•Beat eggs; add milk, with baking soda dissolved in, 
then butter. milk and salt, then mix in enough corn meal 
to make stiff batter ; bake in square pans, well greased, 
flour dusted, in hot oven or stove. 

To DETECT ADULTERATED SUGAR, take half a tumbler 
of water, put in five cents worth of Muriate of Baryta, 
stir it up, then add your sugar ; if the water turn cloudy, 
the sugar is not pure ; if it keeps clear, then it is cane 
sugar — otherwise, glucose. 



76 

TO PREPARE COCOANUT. 

Shell and scrape the nut grate, then paper a hard wood 
board and spread cocoanut on ; put in cool oven five 
minutes, take them out, and mix while warm four ounces 
of powder sugar, and little baking soda, then put on 
board again and give good airing for couple of days, if 
real dry and hard then put in tin can for further use. 

ICINGi 
4 White of Eggs. 

1 lb. Powd. Sugar. 

2 Drops Tartaric Acid. 
Lemon juice, or Acetic Acid. 

Stir sugar in eggs ; work it with wooden paddles ; add 

acid or lemon juice ; if too stiff, add a little water ; if too 

soft, add more sugar; make your cake round and smooth 

first ; give one coat then dry ; then another with softer 

icing; thin out with water; use a strip of smooth- edged 
paper to round it off. 

To BLANCH ALMONDS, put them in a bucket; pour 
boiling water over them ; give one minute's time ; then 
strain and cool them off with cool water ; then squeeze 
the almonds through your fingers. 

Biscuit Bags are made of common muslin, in cornet 
form, with opening left at the bottom ; insert a tube. 






^77 

BAKING POWDER. 

1 lb. Tartaric Acid. 

1}^ lbs. Bi-Carbonate of Soda. 

1}^ " Starch. 

Warm the chemicals slightly; then mix them, and 
pack it away to avoid exposure of air, sometimes a little 
alum is added ; never mix in a cold or damp place. 



78 

Ice CreaiR and Heater Ices. 

. ♦ . 

GOOD ICE CREAM. 

1}( lbs. Sugar. 

4 Eggs. 

1 gal. Cream. 

Vanilla flavor. 

Beat sugar and eggs up, and flavor, then cream ; have 
vanilla bean simmered in water, then strain before putting 
in sugar and eggs, then strain the whole in freezer. 

For Chocolate. — Grate one-quarter pound of cho- 
colate ; work it in after freezing ; if vanilla flavor is used 
besides, it makes it better. 

For Strawberry. — Put half the sugar over the fruit 
for one hour, then squeze into the cream and use one- 
quarter pound sugar more. 

Raspberry is made the same as strawberry. 

Bisk. — Grind half a pound macaroons up like gran- 
ulated sugar, then work it in when cream is frozen ; always 
use vanilla flavor for Bisk or extract of lemon, if so desired. 

Peach. — Peel one dozen good size and well matured 
peaches ; cut them up fine ; put fruit in freezer when the 
cream begins to get stifl". 

Bananas. — Peel half a dozen bananas, and prepare 
the same as peaches. 



79 



COMMON ICE CREAM. 

1)4 lbs. Sugar. 

6 Eggfj. 

}( lb. Corn Starch. 

j4 gal. Cream. 

Sy^ '* Fresh Milk. 

Vanilla flavor. 

Boil milk, then add corn starch ; when near cool, beat 
eggs and sugar together and add it, then flavor and cream, 
stir it up well, then strain the whole in freezer. 



ICE MILK. 

1 j4 lb. Sugar. 

8 Eggs. 

}^ lb. Corn Starch. 

Vanilla flavor. 

1 gal. Fresh Milk. 

Prepared like common ice cream. In making ice 

cream it should be frozen steady ; poorer the materials, 

faster it should be made in freezing, and when no double 

action freezer is used, should be paddled smooth after 
freezing. 



80 



WATER ICES— Orange* 

6 Oranges. 
2 Lemons. 
1 lb. Sugar. 

1 qt. Water. 

2 White of Eggs. 

Grate the rind of oranges, put the water over, let stand 
for one hour or more, then put in all juice from oranges 
and lemons, strain it and add sugar. 

Beat egg up to foam, then stir in the whole mass ; strain 
the whole again through a fine strainer. 

Fruits must be of good size, or increase numbers if small 
in size, and well matured. 



LEMON ICE. 



6 Lemons. 
3 Oranges. 

1 qt. Water. 
j4 lb. Sugar. 

2 White of Eggs. 
Made like Orange ice. 



81 



PINE APPLE. 

1 Pine Apple. 

1^ lbs Sugar. 

1 qt Water. 

3 White of Eggs. 

Peel pine apple, slice it, sprinkle half the sugar over 
and let stand for three hours or more, then squeeze it out, 
add balance of sugar and water, beat white of an egg to 
foam, then ^tir the whole mass in, then strain it in freezer, 
use good size and well matured fruit 

STRAWBERRY. 

1 qt Strawberries. 
1 lb Sugar. 
1 qt Water. 
3 White of Eggs. 

Mix sugar and strawberries, let them stand for one 
hour, then work the rest like pine apple. 



82 



GENERAL THEORY IN BREAD BAKING. 

, There are some people who bake bread without 
fermentation, but in more civilized countries ferment is a 
necessary factor to produce good bread. But to gain a 
better knowledge for baking, we must have a good 
understanding of the chemical composition or constit- 
uents of that cereal which we intend to turn into bread. 
Wheat is composed of animal, vegetable and mineral 
matter, and they again are composed of different ingre- 
dients ; but they all harmonize in such a manner as to 
make bread a food sufficient to maintain life, provided 
we gain all the nutritious matter that wheat contains. 

The animal part is about sixteen per cent, (nitrogen, 
including about two per cent, of protein), it is the bind- 
ing part, or gum ; it makes elasticity, and is necessary 
to bind the starchy part; it makes food for the blood 
and flesh forming, and is mostly found close to the hull 
of the grain, and in greater proportion in spring wheat 
than in winter wheat. 

The vegetable part is about sixty-five per cent., is 
starch (carbonate), including about two per cent, of 
sugar, which is generated by milling, it makes heat giving 
matter, and is mostly found in the centre of the grain. 

The remaining part is phosphoric kali, salt, water, 
wood fiber and oxygen, and they too are found close to 
the bran, they are building matter for bone and blood. 



83 

The first things we do in baking is to prepare yeast, 
that is put a certain amount of flour under a chemical 
process, to gain a gas to make bread porous> and by 
such process it converts flour into starch, then into dex- 
trine, then into sugar, and at last into carbonate gas. 
When done we increase that process by setting sponge, 
which gives the first chance to observe what kind of 
flour we use, if we are unable to judge by feeling it. If 
it absorbs much moisture it is strong, and should be 
mixed soft in dough, also more time given to overcome 
its elasticity, because it has more animal matter, "gluten,** 
which produces gum; and some of it has to be converted 
into sugar, to prdduce more gas to break its tough nature, 
and by giving full time, makes bread white. But if it 
does not absorb much moisture, stiffer dough is required. 
It has more starch or vegetable matter, ^'carbonate," and 
less "gluten;" it produces less gum, and what it has must 
be saved to combine the starch, consequently it needs 
less time and more salt, which is spice in bread. Salt 
checks it when too active in summer. It can be more 
exposed to air. It holds moisture better, also in baking 
it needs more time to evaporate its heavy volume of 
water. When strong gets dryer, has more gas, gets 
more spongy, and less moisture, need less time to bake, 
and if properly treated makes a more wholesome bread- 



84 



A SKETCH OF ANCIENT AND MODERN BREAD 

BAKING. 

It is hard to place a certain data where or when the 
first bread was baked, but one fact is certain, that bread- 
baking did not take place until proper social intercourse 
in the human family was established, and, no doubt, the 
stomach helped greatly in shaping things in the world's 
affairs, in ancient times as now-a-days, and preparation of 
food received more attention in an approved style when 
people began to entertain one another in a patriarchial 
manner, "hence society." 

Roasting grain is an acknowledged fact was the first 
manner of preparing grain food, and is yet practiced 
among some uncultured Asiatic races for traveling pur- 
poses Then grain was pounded on fiat stones, and after 
a while mortars came in use, and still are in use. 

Mush was the nfext thing, as Pliny tells us, that all an- 
cient Greeks and Romans ate mush for a long time be- 
fore they began to bake it. 

Sifting and baking flour, we find first in the Bible, Gene, 
xvii : 6, when the old Nomad Chief, Abraham, told his 
wile, Sarah, to prepare some cakes made from fine flour; 
again in Gene, xxi : 14, we find him supplying poor 
Hagar and her child with some bread, before he told 
her to make room for a more legitimate heir; again in 
Gene, xl : 2, we find Pharaoh angry, which brought his 



86 

baker to jail, which was a bad beginning for the first baker. 

In Exodus xi : 5, we find Pharaoh having another spell, 
and had his slave millers killed, which was also a bad 
beginning for millers ; later again in Exodus xii : 34, we 
find the first leaven, which was neglected, however, as 
silverware business seemed to be a more important mat- 
ter, but the bread was ate afterwards by the name ot 
" Mazsas," or Unleavened Bread, which is yet made to 
celebrate the crossing of the Red Sea. 

In Homer's "Odessey," we find that bread was con- 
sumed in great quantities during the Trojan war, and 
supposed to have been invented by Mylas, the son of the 
first Lacedemonien King; also, in Homer's ** Iliad,'* we 
find the Grecian soldiers sacrificing a sow, the enemy 
of corn, to please the Goddess Ceres. She, also, should 
have invented bread-baking. 

The old historian, Ae.lus, tells us that the great tyrant 
King, Mitylene, should have been a great friend to bakers, 
and kept about forty in his household. Theorio was the 
most gifted one, and had, therefore, many privileges, ** and 
all bakers were free men." 

Athenaus another historian tells of seventy-five differ- 
ent kinds of cakes that were baked in Athens at this 
time, but that early art was lost in the down fall of that 
country. 



86 

Pliny's National History says the Romans ate their 
grain in mush until the Macedonian war took place, when 
brejad makers, called *' pistores " were brought to Rome, 
and carried iheir mortars with them to mash grain and 
bake it, and enjoyed therefore many privileges as prison- 
ers of war. Strabo says in the war against King Perseus 
of Macedonia, mills built on ships were found in that 
country which the Romans took home after the war, but 
were unable to put them in operation and were not of 
any use until the war against Mithridates about eighty- 
eight years B. C, when Balisar was brought to Rome, 
he reconstructed them, but they were not used for some 
reason or cause until the siege of Rome by the Goths 
took place. 

Pliny says further that Rome had many public baker- 
ies in the 580 years after Rome was built, or 173 years 
B. C, and they had organized guilds and enjoyed many 
other rights, but lost them "if their children would not 
follow their parents trade." 

The first baker in Rome was a slave and for his talen- 
ted baking was made a free man, " for baking as good 
bread as they had in Athens," which city in those days 

was far ahead of Rome in all works of art. He was a 
great favorite among the nobles of Rome for inventing a 

great variety of cakes for heathen feasts, for Adonay feast, 

he made Anis cakes for Saturns least, a ring with a cross 



87 

in it like a bretzel called Saturnias, for Sun's feast he 
made ring cakes made of honey, also tarts and many 
other things. 

But while the Romans made steady improvements in 
baking and enjoyed the luxury of advanced baking, the 
Teutons and their gallic cousins ate their cereals in raw 
and roasted state, but after a while when Caesar came to 
stretch his Roman eagles over Celtae and Galli, as the 
Romans call it, to conquer and make Roman subjects, he 
also brought laws and arts, baking bread was the first 
that took well, and Teutons were in a short time better 
bakers than the Romans, who afterward invited them to 
Rome, because Romans had no time those days to bake 
their own bread, neither had they time to work at any- 
thing else, and yet there was so much need of Artisans, 
who could do good work, the Romans were willing to 
pay well, because wherever their eagles stretched their 
wings there was a new source of revenue, and all the Ro- 
mans did those days was to spend money, suppers 
often cost millions, and took regiments of cooks and 
bakers to prepare them, which gave the Germans a 
good chance to improve their trade and condition. 
They made good use of it, they organized guilds all over 

Italy to control the whole business of baking and cooking. 
This state of affairs lasted until the Gauls appeared before 
the walls of Rome, and after a short siege became master 
of that lustful city, but these new rulers soon began to 



88 

take hold of every branch of business which gave their 
German cousins a chance to migrate to where they came 
from because things were not handled with gloves those 
days, " might was right,'* but when the Germans came 
back home they found things greatiy changed, their own 
trade was heavily taxed and encumbered with all sorts of 
laws, every bakeoven had to pay a tax, and bakers were 
only allowed to bake certain cakes or bread on certain 
days of the week, which made their trade not a very lu- 
crative one, and if any one broke these laws or regula- 
tions he was heavily punished, and if brought before the 
bar of justice a second time» was put in a sort of an iron 
basket or cage and sunk in deep water wh^re death be- 
came often a welcome saviour, and any who survived 
through a course of such rude baptism was even after- 
wards regarded as a criminal or outcast. These laws 
lasted from the fourteenth to the nineteenth century. In 
the national museum of Muenchen, such iron baskets 
among other implements of torture can yet be seen. 

After Rome lost its Gallic master, and they again ruled 
themselves, it gave their former bakers again a chance to 
try their luck with Rome, to improve their condition in 
life, and the Romans received them with open arms be- 
cause they had greatly degenerated in their idle times 

during the French rule which gave the Germans a good 
chance to install themselves again in their former organi- 
zation called guilds, and gained them a citizenship of 



89 

Rome, which cost a great deal of money, but gave them 
many rights. 

But while they enjoyed good times again in Rome, 
their craft fellows were still sorely oppressed in Germany, 
which lasted until Emperor Joseph's time. He was a 
friend to his fellow man, and also was a keen observer of 
things coming under his eyes which soon gave him a 
chance to do away with some old obnoxious laws which 
were neither good for himself or his subjects, he used to 
go to every bakeshop and try their goods to ascertain 
who could bake the best bread in Vienna. This soon 
made a change among bakers, they began to do better 
work, and at the same time Hungarian milling im- 
proved considerably, which gave old Joseph still more 
pleasure in eating good " Muerbe Kipfel," which was his 
favorite bread for breakfast, and the better the bread the 
more privileges the bakers received, which was in forming 
guilds or zuenfte, and every person had a right to build a 
bake-oven, and bake in it what pleased him, provided 
he understood his business and could make a " meister- 
stueck" "masterpiece," to prove he was competent to 
handle flour, as old Joseph had a good opinion of econo- 
my like old Fritz of Prussia who later quarelled a great 
deal with old Joseph's daughter Marie Theresa. 

When she became possessor of her father's crown, and 
at the same time the Vienna bakers found out what 



90 

sort of a woman she was, they began to call her all 
sorts of names, and wished she had gone to a nunnery 
where she might have been of more use, because things 
began to shape themselves again as her father found it. 
Every old law that her father repealed, that used to op- 
press or extort money from the working class was brought 
out again, which made things rough for bakers. She 
compelled them to sell bread cheaper than they could re- 
place it again, and were forced to bake a certain amount 

i 

every day, until bankruptcy stared in every baker's face. j 

When a baker could not buy more flour, he was told to ■ 

go to her commissary and work up grain that she had I 

laid up for war purposes. 

Often the wheat she furnished was spoiled from age or 
bad storage, but good bread had to be produced or the 
laws were enforced, which made things very hard for 
bakers. White bread was a luxury, and the storm- 
ing of a bakeshop became a daily occurrence. Such 
drudgery lasted until the invasion of Napoleon took 
place, which shook the old dust up among the crowned 
donkies of Eastern Europe, which was very hard on all, 
but that electric storm was necessary to give tone again 
to a sound beginning of brighter days, like Caesar of old, | 

wherever he went he left some of his republican codes ; 
he put a new face on everything, and every person be- 
lieved the last judgment day was at hand ; but the storm 
soon cleared and gave the old corsair a homestead on 



91 

St. Helena, which gav6 the people a chance again to 
mend their clothes and repair other damages, and when 
that was done, it seemed it was a good storm anyhow, 
only there were less people in Europe to eat bread. 

The bright sun of prosperity soon made things look 
lively again ; people breathed freer, the crowned drones 
made wiser faces again, and learned the lesson ** that they 
are no Gods," neither were the people so many cows, 
but all were of one common family, with a perfect right to 
eat as much bread as they pleased provided they worked 
or paid for it, and made bakers busy again because all 
others were busy, new vigor and strength animated the 
bakers to resume again with a better will and spirit to im- 
prove mentally and otherwise, and when the Vienna bakers 
came to the Paris exhibition in 1867, to show what they 
could do in the line of their trade every person was satis- 
fied except the Paris bakers, because the Vienna bakers 
received the medal for being the best bakers in the world 
and the French the Second best, but all promised em- 
phatically that they would still keep on improving which 
turned out to be true, when nine years later, they came 
to Philadelphia and showed General U. S. Grant that 
they were the "same old boys" still, which pleased the 

old General, as he smoked faster, which showed he was 
satisfied with both the Germans and their gallic cousins. 
But while the Germans do the best work in small fer- 
mented cakes, and spend all their forces in that direction, 



92 

the French do not remain idle, but keep improving in 
bake-ovens and dough kneading machines, and in fer- 
menting processes to economize in producing the most 
bread from wheat, also in fuel and labor to emancipate 
themselves from the hardest work in the bake-shop, they 
realize the fact that they are human as well as all others, 
and claim to be recognized as such. They let the Ger- 
mans have all the fun in getting more consumptive from 
long hours work, the French tell them every day that 
there never was in any climate under the sun any slavery 
that deformed humanity more than a German baker-shop, 
but time is the best panacea to cure all the ills. 

In ordinary baking in France leaven or sour dough 
ferment is used which was adopted by law as the safest 
ferment for the human organism, which was so proclaimed 
by the faculty of Medecine in Paris, over a hundred years 
ago, but that is considered now a days an exploded the- 
ory. Some localities suit sour ferment better than others, 
where in others again sweet ferment is better; it all de- 
pends on the water which is a great factor in baking, 
which makes bakers adopt such ferment as will suit the 
water and flour they use, limestone water is always good 
for dough, moreso where poor flour is worked up, and if 
none is handy, it should be procured by slacking lime, 

and when the water gets clear on top it can be used say 
one-half nesessary for mixing dough, and is greatly 
applied where sour ferment is used. 



93 

Near Seville, Spain, they bake a small fermented cake 
which has a great reputation for its fine flavor, which is 
attributed to the water they use for baking. 

In Naples they also bake bread similar to that in Spain, 
as a traveler remarked going through that country: 
" Their bread is as beautiful as their sky," while the bread 
in Germany is as dark as their clouds, but I have ob- 
served that people's tastes often times run ahead of their 
prudence. Some localities can produce an article through 
favorable circumstances that gives such localities a repu- 
tation that could not be produced by the same people else- 
where. 

In Westfallen they bake Pompemickel that cannot be 
produced as good anywhere else. Hungarians also bake 
such good wheat bread that strangers at first cannot 
eat enough of it ; it has a fine flavor, and the people there 
know how to preserve it, which is the true secret in baking 
good bread anywhere. 

Their neighbors ** Croatians " would not touch it, they 
want Indian corn, " Kukuruza " they call it, and they 
want Kukuruza all the time, and in every shape, they 
roast it when green as we here boil it, and their own 
brethern a little further west in the Warasdin Mountains 
will not touch corn, they eat buckwheat in bread if it 
does look dark, also millet " hirsca " or Moharca in 
Hungarian in soup, as we use rice or barley. These 



94 

mountains are full of large size chestnuts on which they 
live for nearly six months in the year. They eat them 
boiled with milk for supper and think there is nothing 
better in the world; they also make meal from chestnuts 
to mix in bread. Potatoes are hardly known, where in. 
Germany and Ireland they make up one-half their daily 
bread. 

In Scotland's olden times only oatmeal and barley 
cakes called "scons" were known, now the Scotch are 
taking to wheat bread, eating more every day, as late 
as 1804, Glasgow had no bakeshop, now every little 
town has her baker, and Scotiand is known now as the 
land of cakes, which no doubt comes from scones baking 
which are made up in small size. 

In England, 750 A. D., Pipins time, white bread was 
pnly used for communion bread, and who ever wanted to 
eat it outside of that, had to go to the Bishop and get it 
by paying so much tax on it. Later in the middle ages 
as Sir Edward Cook tells us no servant was allowed to 
eat white bread, but only a mixture of rye and oatmeal 
bread. 

Later again, 1626, Charles I. thought barley bread was 
good enough for common people, but the English people 
began to raise more wheat every year, and now every 
person can eat such bread as they have money to buy. 

London has now a little over 20QO bakeshops, and 



95 

would have had more if their laws did not interfere with 
the trade. 

The Sclavs and Czechs when they migrated to Bohe- 
mia brought the knowledge of bread baking along, which 
was only carried on by the mother of the house, and bread 
baking was considered as a holy affair, and the first that 
was baked was dedicated to their house-god or idol as 
an offering. 

The Anglo-Saxons and the Polish races had the same 
superstition in sacrificing the first bread baked to their 
house-goddess called " Matergabia," the giving mother. 

The Swedes and Russians eat altogether rye and bar- 
ley cakes or bread, where in the southern part of Russia 
all wheat is eaten, and it is one of the best wheat fields in 
the world. 



96 

ORNAMENTING CAKES. 

To have a proper idea how such work is done you 
should see the operation by a skilled hand. Then it 
depends on a cool and steady hand, as well as a good, 
artistic taste and practice, to do it successfully. 

To the inexperienced a few words of advice ai:e necess- 
ary: 

Have your icing white and stiff by adding a few drops 
of acetic ^cid or lemon juice, then trim the cake smooth 
and round on top, then if the side is to be iced, lay the 
cake with the top side down and ice it, then turn the 
cake over and cover the tube hole with a piece of cake 
or cracker, then spread it over the top with a broad 
plated or pallet knife, when nearly smooth take a strip of 
stiff letter paper, long enough to reach across the cake, 
hold it tightiy with the edge on the icing, then run it over 
the cake if you do not succeed in making it smooth, 
repeat until satisfactory, then dry in oven, not too fast^or 
it will blister, when hard, 'make icing softer by adding a 
little water for the second coating and for a third if re- 
quired — when dry commence the ornamenting by placing 
a center piece il so desired, then place some tragacanth 
leaves around it, these can be bought with the center 
piece; then use orife of my designs as a pattern to or- 
nament around the center ; then put the rim on. 

For all the different kinds of designing, icing tubes are 
inserted in a paper cornet, made of good letter paper, cut 
diagonal, to get a long triangular shape ; then twist a cor- 
net to a sharp point, and if a tube is used, cut the point 
off enough to insert a tube, if no tubes are used, the point 
has to be cut to shape wanted, then fill thfe cornet with 
icing, turn the top ends over and press your thumb over 
it to keep it from oozing out, and force the icing through 
the point end, the rim is put on at last in the same 
manner, according to artistic taste; no designs for orna- 
menting rims given here. 






INDEX. 



Pasi. 

Anis CaVes , 54 

Angela' Food 57 

Baking Powder 77 

Boston Cream Cakes M 

Brandy Hnaps 6H 

Biscuit Bag 76 

Butter Biscuits 75 

Cake Tarts ,50 

Chemicals 'M 

Chocolate iMacaroons 65 

Cbooolate layer Cake 42 

Chocolate Washington Cake 49 

Citron Cakes 67 

Citron bnaps 68 

Cinnamon Snaps 67 

Common Cup Cakes 44 

Common King Doughnuts 71 

Common Pound Cakes..,. 40 

Common Ice Cream 79 

Common Sugar Cakes \... 53 

Communion Bread 60 

Corn Stairch Cakes 46 

Cocoanut Cakes 48 

Cocoanut Drops 52 

Cocoanut Macaroons 59 

Cocoanut Jumbles 56 

1, Crullers No. 1 69 

Crullers No. 2 70 

^* Cresct'nt Cakes 47 

Cream I'uffs 60 

Custard for Lemon Pies 72 

Cup Cakes 43 

Currant Jumbles 56 

Domestic Cakes 49 

Drop Cakes 72 

Dough 28 

Fremont Cakes 47 

French Cakes # 45 

French Jumbles 55 

French Macaroons 65 

Flour 22 

Fruit Cake 38 

Frosted Crenm Cakes 63 

General Rule for mixinsr cake dough 33 

General theory in bread baking 82 

Ginger Bread 61 

Ginger Poun'i Cake 6l 

Ginger Hnaps 62 

Ginger Nuts 62 

Goo'i Ring Doughnuts '. 78 

G'tlden Cake 87 

Hops 29 

Honey Jumbles 64 

Honey Snaps 68 

Icing 76 



r 



a 



Paov. 

Ice Cream , 78 

Ice Milk ; 79 

Indian Pound Cake 75 

Jelly Fingers 59 

Jelly Cake No. 1 40 

Jelly Cake No. 2 41 

Jumbles 54 

Jumbles No. 2 53 

Kougleough 73 

Law and Order 84 

Lady Fingers, see Sponge Cake 44 

Lemon Drops 61 

London Drops 5t 

Malt 30 

Measure and Weight 30 

Meringues 60 

New York Pound Cake 89 

Ornamenting Cakes 9G 

Ornamenting Designs 

Our Daily Bread U 

Paris Chocolate Drops 50 

Potatoes 30 

Process of Yeast 26 

Pound Cake 89 

Plain Cookies.... 52 

Plain Chocolate Cookies 53 

Pie Dough 72 

Practical Life 3 

Rough and Ready No. 1 64 

Rough and Ready No. 2 65 

Rock Cakes * 46 

Salt 29 

Shapes and Forms 19 

Sponge , 27 

Sponge Cake 44 

Spices and Extracts 82 

Sketches of Ancient and Modern Bread Palcing 84 

Substitute for hops ; 30 

Scotch Cakes 69 

Soda Biscuits 73 

Sugar Biscuits 74 

Tart Paste ^ 71 

Taylor Cakes..... 66 

To prepare i?ocoanuts 76 

To Blanch Almonds 76 

To detect Adulturated Sugar 75 

Useful Instruction 16 

Water 29 

Water Ices 89 

Water Sponge Cakes 45 

Washington Cakes 48 

White Lady Cake 37 

White Mountain Cake 25 

Yeast 26 



J 




^xfsiaaLVi.feLCtvi.riza.e^ 



CONFECTIONERS 



33eeLldxs ixx 




-FVIili IiINE OF- 



(5ake Decorations ^ Bakers' Supplies, 

FINE & PL UN CANDIES, 

Of our own manufacture 

AliWAYS FRESH AND STRICTLY PURE. 

CHOICEST & FRESHEST FRUITS & HUTS 

Of all kinds always on hand. 

77 &79rEDEEAL STREET 

Allegheny, Pa. 



JOHN FITE 



Thd llgii Ci@iffl@?j 







169 Liberty Street, 



PITTSBURGH, 




^ (^=^ ■»• 



p. S. — Our Eagle Brand Elgin 
Butter is strictly pure churned from 
sweet milk, and received in Relrig- 
erator Cars twice a week, the year 
round. 

159 LIBERTY ST.. PITTSBURGH. 



SSTABLISHISD 1831 



•DEALERS IN- 



FAKCY, FAMILY, 



AND 





F 




p 



157 Liberty St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 



Sole Control of the following Brands : 

Minnesota New Process, 

Challenge, New State Mills, Triumph, 

Algeria, Bakers Delight. 

O. W. SCHLUMPF, 

Ice Cream and Cakes 

For Weddings and Parties furnished on short 

notice, 

ALSO, AVTHOB OF 

i Fraclical Ciiiie lor Cake ani Iroail lahrs, 

Sent free of postage in United States and Canada 

for $l»f 

Sewickley, Allegheny County, Pa. 



DEMMLEB & SCHEHCB, 

No. 300 Liberty Street, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

MANUFACTURERS OP 

Confectioners' Copper Utensils. 

■d . 

If il 

n n 



!l 



COPPEK CANDY PANS. 



These psas are msde of bearr copper, nestlr braied and thoranghly 
hammered. Tlieaiaea named are kept regulirtj In Slock 

No, 1. 14 inch diam., S3.25 I No. i. 19 inch diam., $ SM 

■' 2. 15 " " 5.00 " 5. 20 " " 10.00 

" 3. 17 " " 7.00 I '■ 6- 42 " " 12.00 



TOY PANS. 

No. 1. Toy Pau, ^ Ballon...S3.50 
" 2. " " 1 '■ ... 4.50 



MINT DROPPERS. 

). 1. Mint Dropper, 1 Lip.,.. J2,00 

2. " " 2 " 2.75 

3. . " "3 ■' ...- 3-50 




Rapid Doable-action Ice Cream Freezer. 

WITH FLY WHEEL & FRAME. FOR CONFECTIONERS A HOTELS. 

24 quarts, SSS-oo I 32 quarts, 865.00 | 40 quarts, tSo.oo 

Copper Cans zo cenis per quart extra. 



u 












< 










bl 


e 























? 


ii< 










b 












>- 













e 










-< 












tj 












A most durable 


iand, 


:omplete Ki 


,ma« 1 


For Confectioners & Bakers. 


No. 16. Size ove. 


■Tops 


, 20 Inch I 


Wth 14 


Inch openings 


512.00 


" 18. " " 




23 " 


■■ 16 




16 00 



15 inches J1.8& | 17 inches J2.26 ! ISH inches. M.OO 



ORNAMENTED ICE CREAM BRICKS. 

2 Pints *1.50 I i Knts J2.00 

3 " 175 I 6 '■ 2.25 

PLAIN ICE CREAM BRICKS. 

2 Huts J0.50 I 6 Pints J0.90 

4 " 0.70 I 8 '■ 1.00 



Tin, Sheet Iron & Copper Ware, 

Hotels, BwtaurbntB, 6&kerB ft CanfeetiDnns use. 
168 & 200 LIBERTY STREET, 



STEEL ENGRAVINGS, 
Water Colors, 

picture: frabses. &c. 



Manufscturer of all ttjies of 

LOOKIITG GLASSES, 

ooRirxaKa 

^n& Sltoto Cases, 

FRENCH & PLATE SHEET CLASS- 

Orystal Plate Glass Co., 

ST. LOUIS, MO. 

No. 82 WOOD STREET, 

PITTSBURGH, PA. 



BANNER 



"JAKINI" 
POWDER 

Always the Best. 



F. J. AlBREGHT 

Practical Oven Builder, 






> ^. 





Q 
f 

Specially Built to Suit 

Bread Bakeries. Confectioneries 

AND HOTELS. 

SPECIALLY PBEPARED 

Material^ 

Castings, 

Brick and Tile 

ALWAYS ON HAND. 

Snplieats ble hi Imp btes, Door li&srs 

To be had at 

No. 1146 PENN AVENUE, 

Repairing of all kinds done at short notice and all 
necessary material furnished. 



W. F. SCHADE, 

3706 BTJTIL.:E]I?/ STI2/E1E1T, 

(Bet. 37th and 3eth Streets,) 

]]ewsdealer, Bookseller 

AND STATIONER, 



l)EutscI[e l3uct{«ticinfilnng. 

. ♦ ■ 

BLANK & SCHOOL BOOKS, 

ALBUMS, POCKETBOOKS, 

SCRAP BOOKS, &c., 

ft 

Scrap Book Pictures, 

French Tissue Paper. 



m m mimii m mm m mmi 



Orders s^ent to me for this Recipe Book will be promptly 
attended to. 



n 






> 






^ 



(r ^ '' .. c 



\j 



^ < ) .^ ^ ' \ . // .,'.■< t c-^ 



. ,-.^//^ 



/ . ^ 



^ ^ 

w k.^ 












^ 






/ 



/■ 



/* 



y '^ ^ y , t 



'^ 



' y 



•^ 






y 



V 






/. ^ ^ -' ' ■ - 



■7 












( < 






2 -^-e-^V ^ 






z' 






/ • i 









-v ' 






/ 



// <^rl ' 




'U - / 



/>/ ^ / / '.^/i^.-. 



,^ /^ ^/ ^^///^ ^ '. 



4p 



/ 



/ 






y 1/ 



/ 







,-7 ' ; / / / ^ / 



' 'A^' /^^ /f ^ / < ^ </ t^r^/uf:^ 



L- 



C ( I I ' <} . . r c : ty 



.r^ ; f r/ ^ 



^ tyoc-ct^ /^l?^-/^ 



A 






/^^^.^ 



/ 



/ €' 



6^ i ^ 





r'^^< I. ^c^i^' C^ iL^"^ 



/<_ 



/ t -9 c ' ^ . '-^ ' 



7- / 



' ' c^ ^L{^^.r^'t^ /trt/ /i^t/Z^ tri:^^^^ 



tc'^ 



/ / 



/<^ 



CO^^ L/ 



V 



r 



n 



CUfU^C-CrT^ '<^^^3>z^^^^^^. 






,.tJ^ coi/ /u^^. ^^"^ /^^^ ^y^i^<^ y^^'V^-/lL^ {U 






V 

\ a 






^"ih^y^ • * 






i^^ £ /' iOCirzi/^^t^ l^ a^ .^U^tyi^ — q^iyi^^^ £Uy^— /yt>xJtco4^ ^cLx^^f^y -^^X-^^^'y- 
jtOci*:^ /i' S^ttO-. Zv^ic^yi^ e.c^^^ ^S<yi^^ ,'y^rxx.^ltZ^ <.yU^^ /- - ^<^<Z-- 0*"^^^ 

S^Z'f- o'lyi^ j^^^ jft^v^ ^^^rz^^ZL <Z4/^C€.i^<3fcn.c<Z^ t^^4xjg^U^c<jC Oc^t^^^ 






t^^^^L^tSTi^ C^^^e.,tjC<^ J|r^^»'>*t>' •• 0^'r>na^,'xy^^,<%yCy' c^i^f^ m^ ^^^JL^ 




/f A\^ a^^u^-^cA^ ^yt^t^ Oi^ .^^i^^^^^ <y^^^^ ^a^^C^r ^^i^-z^lA^ 







criK/t^ C 




y^<?7^i/ ..o<i/ ^t^^ X^2^ ^£ou^^^ (3L^36^3^ oir^^c^jt^ e^ ^^^^ 




J^f?^"^ ^^''^-^^ /a^-erc^^ ^ie.*^^^ G-4^tJt^ ^^-^^ f^^^^*^*-^^^ *2rz^t^ 



K 



^^^^ ^ 



GjoU^Vt- /^ccoCCfCutA^*;^ ' 



ty9 ^^u2^ 










i 



Gu^orC^r^cc'^^ (^^'(y^^ » 









>?^i 



^^ ^o 



/• ^ ^ 



'^ ^t^-^^/ ^T/i^S^^ ' a^'^'^^ *^ J^-C^^.^ i^/ii<r c-f^^y" ^^^^r^ 



-^ « 



fO c<^Z^Ei{^ cc>t^c<^ /looato^ a</^z^'ri!^^^^^ 2^ ^^ z-^J^-^^ 
















, 49?k4 iuw?6. ST^i^^l^^c-^UtAAc, 







1 



'l 



r 



I 



i 



