


^ A* /jAVA'o V <£> IV 

























.**%. 



«^_ 



A^* ^WW^ ,$*V 



.^ 




a*° SJ*toiZ> > 




**°«* 











&*• ^ ** '^V/ji'* ^ <** 




* A V 







A.u '<> - „ „ o * ^i 



(Rookery <$jH<mml%. 



rvo. 4. 



VEGETABLES and VEGETABLE COOKING. 



MRS. EMMA P. EWWG. 



Author aj " Suup and Snap Making," "Bread and Bread Making, 
"Salad and Salad Making,' 




CHICAGO: 

FAIRBANKS, PALMER & CO. 
1884. 






/{V* 



COPYKIGHT BT 

Fairbanks, Palmer & Co. 
1884. 



Printed and Bound 

by 

CHAS. N. TRIVESS, Chicago. 



Table of Contents. 



PAGE, 

Artichokes - 8-9 

Asparagus - 9-10 

Beets -- 10 

Beans -------- u 

Brussels Sprouts ----- 12 

Brocoli - - - - - - - 12 

Borecole 12 

Cauliflower 12 

Cabbage ------- 13-14 

Celery -------- I4 

Carrots ------- 14-15 

Corn -- -___-_ 15-16 

Cress -- 16 

Cucumbers ------- jy 

Dressings for Vegetables - 6-8 

Endive -------- 18 

Egg-Plant ------ x8 

Greens -------- 18 

Hominy ------- 19 

Kale - ------- 19 

Kohlrabi:- ------ 19 



* contents. 

Lettuce - - - - - - - 18 

Mushrooms --.__- 19-20 
Macaroni ------- 20-2 r 

Okra ------- 21 

Oyster-Plant 34 

Onions ------- 21-22 

Parsley - 22 

Pumpkins - 23 

Parsnips ------- 23-24 

Peas -------- 23 

Potatoes ---____ 24-32 

Rice ------- 33 

Sweet Potatoes ------ 32 

Spinach ------- ^z 

Salsify -------- 33-34 

Sea Kale ------- 34 

Squash -_--__. 37-38 

Sauce for Vegetables - 6-8 

Seasonings for Vegetables - 5 

Time Table for Vegetables - 5 

Turnips - 34-35 

Tomatoes 35-37 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE COOKING. 



PRELIMINARY REMARKS. 



Market gardening is becoming so important an 
industry that the production of vegetables is rapidly 
on the increase. Many different kinds are already in 
genera: cultivation, others are being introduced to 
popular notice, and nearly all of them when cooked 
according to the best methods, are highly relished by 
a majority of people. 

The cooking of vegetables is, however, so imper- 
fectly understood, that instead of an attractive variety 
of them being served regularly at the average dinner 
table, it is not infrequently the case that the vegetable 
family is represented there, day after day, by the potato 
alone — and that always dressed in the same unvarying 
style. 

The general rules applicable to the cooking of meats, 
etc., are also applicable to the cooking of vegetables, 
and they can only be cooked according to the seven 
primary methods, namely : Roasting, Baking, Boiling, 
Steaming, Stewing, Frying and Broiling; but the meth- 



4 COOKERY MANUAL. 

ods of seasoning, combining and serving may be varied 
so as to produce an almost limitless number of dishes 
with distinctive names. 

A difference of opinion exists in regard to the tem- 
perature of the water in which different vegetables 
should be put to cook ; but a safe general rule to 
follow, until the question is settled beyond all contro- 
versy, is : — To put all fresh or green vegetables in 
slightly salted boiling water, and let them cook gently 
until tender; — and to put all dried, leguminous vegeta- 
bles, such as beans, peas, etc , in cold water, and after 
it reaches the boiling point, allow them to simmer 
gently until done. 

Dried vegetables should be well soaked in cold water 
before they are cooked, and most green vegetables are 
improved by being subjected to the same process, — 
especially is this the case with potatoes, turnips, pars- 
nips, salsify, etc., all of which become discolored, 
when pared or scraped, unless immediately laid in cold 
water. 

Foj the sake of preserving them in handsome shape 
vegetables are often served under- done ; but are more 
frequently sent to table an over-cooked, insipid mess. 
In either case they are unpalatable, indigestible and 
innutritious. They should always be cooked thorough- 
ly, but never so much as to render them mushy, or 
cause them to tumble to pieces. 

The length of time required for cooking any variety 
of vegetable depends greatly on its maturity or age, and 
varies considerably at different seasons. The time in 



VEGETABLES. 



which various vegetables will cook is approximated in 
the table here given ; but the true, and only safe, rule 
is to test them occasionally during the process of 
cooking. 



TIME TABLE. 



Giving the approximate length of time required for 
cooking different vegetables : 

30 Minutes. — Asparagus, corn, macaroni, mush- 
rooms, peas, boiled potatoes, tomatoes, lettuce. 

45 Minutes. — Young beets, carrots, parsnips, tur- 
nips, baked potatoes, rice. 

One Hour. — Artichokes, new cabbage, string beans, 
brussels sprouts, cauliflower, greens, salsify, new onions, 
winter squash. 

Two Hours. — Winter cabbage, carrots, parsnips, 
turnips and onions. 

Three to Five Hours. — Old beets. 

Five to Eight Hours. — Dried beans, dried peas, 
hominy, etc. 

The flavor of vegetables can be very perfectly devel- 
oped by the addition of suitable condiments, at the 
proper stage of their preparation for the table, and 
may, by judicious seasoning be modified to suit every 
taste. 

Melted butter, drawn butter, clear sauce, white 
sauce, brown sauce, tomato sauce, and several salad 
dressings are appropriate for serving with different veg- 
etables, or with the same vegetable prepared in differ- 
ent ways, and sugar, lemon juice, vinegar, salt, pepper 



w COOKERY MANUAL. 

and numerous other spices are suitable seasonings fo 
many of them. 

It is, however, impossible to give a specific recipe, 
of any practical value, in regard to the proper quantity 
of seasoning or dressing to be used with different veg- 
etables, as some people like very little and others a 
great deal, consequently the matter must in a great 
measure, be left to individual judgment. 

DRAWN BUTTER. 

Cook together one ounce of flour and two ounces of 
butter — or about two measures of flour to one measure 
of butter — stirring meanwhile, until well mixed, add 
one pint of water or broth, boil until the flour is per- 
fectly cooked and the sauce smooth, which will be in 
from two to five minutes, then season to taste with salt 
and pepper. 

CLEAR SAUCE. 

Cut meat, or meat and bone in small pieces, cover 
with cold water, add a little salt, simmer three or four 
hours, strain, and remove the grease. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

Cook together one ounce of flour and two ounces ot 
butter, add one pint of sweet cream or milk, simmer 
gently five minutes, and season to taste with salt and 
pepper. When desired acid, add lemon juice or vin- 
egar just before serving. 



VEGETABLES. 7 

BROWN SAUCE. 

Cook together one ounce of flour and two ounces of 
butter, stirring constantly, until a dark brown, add a 
pint of cold water or broth, cook, and season to taste 
with salt and pepper. By browning meat and making 
it into broth, a rich coloring can be obtained for brown 
sauce. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Stew a quart of tomatoes in a pint of any simple 
broth, or in their own juice, until very soft, rub through 
a sieve, and season to taste with salt and red pepper. 
If too acid, add a quarter of a teaspooonful of sugar. 

FRENCH SALAD DRESSING. 

To a half teaspoonful of made mustard add olive 
oil, stirring constantly until thick; then thin by adding 
vinegar in like manner; and thus alternate until the 
Tequired quantity is obtained, when season to taste 
with salt and pepper. A French dressing, without 
mustard, is made by mixing together four teaspoonfuls 
of vinegar, half a teaspoonful of salt and one-eighth 
of a teaspoonful of pepper, and when used, adding 
olive oil. 

CREAM DRESSING. 

Cook together, two minutes, an ounce each of flour 
and butter, add a pint of sweet cream, and season 
with salt and pepper. 



8 COOKERY MANUAL. 

COOKED MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

To each table spoonful of boiling vinegar used, 
add the well beaten yolk of an egg, and cook in a bowl 
set in a pan of boiling water, till stiff. Remove from 
the fire, add an ounce of butter, and stir until cool and 
perfectly stiff. After it becomes cold season with salt, 
pepper and mustard, and thin to the required consis- 
tency with sweet cream. 



VEGETABLES. 



ARTICHOKE SALAD. 



There are two kinds of artichokes — the Jerusalem 
and the Globe — both of which are occasionally served 
as salads. The former is a tuber, similar in appear- 
ance to a potato, and the latter a plant resembling a 
thistle, with a large scaly head, the under part only of 
which is edible. When eaten raw they are dressed 
according to taste, with melted butter or oil, and salt, 
pepper, mustard, vinegar, etc. 

BOILED ARTICHOKES. 

Wash and scrape Jerusalem artichokes, boil till ten- 
der, drain, and serve with drawn butter or white sauce, 
or mash fine and season with salt and pepper. 



VEGETABLES. 
SCALLOPED ARTICHOKES. 



Boil and mash Jerusalem artichokes, season with 
salt and pepper, put in shells, or in a baking dish, 
sprinkle with bread crumbs, moisten with butter, and 
brown in the oven. 



FRIED ARTICHOKES. 



Boil Globe artichokes, remove the chokes, divide the 
bottoms in pieces the size desired, dip in beaten egg 
and crumbs, and fry in butter or drippings. 



BOILED ASPARAGUS. 



Wash, tie in small bundles, cook till tender and 
serve on toast, with melted butter, or white sauce. 



ASPARAGUS PEAS. 

Wash, cut in small pieces, simmer till tender in just 
enough of water to cover, thicken slightly with flour 
and butter stirred together, add a little sweet cream, 
and season with salt and pepper. 

ASPARAGUS ROLLS. 

Cut cold boiled asparagus very fine, mix with beaten 
egg in a sauce pan, thicken with a little flour and milk 
stirred together, season with salt and pepper, pour hot 
into rolls from which the crumb has been removed 
and serve; or pour on toast and serve. 



10 COOKERY MANUAL. 

ASPARAGUS PUDDING. 

Mix together half a pint of asparagus peas, four 
eggs, a table spoonful of finely minced ham, an ounce 
of butter, two table spoonfuls of flour, and milk suffi- 
cient to make a thick batter. Pour into a buttered 
pudding mould, steam two hours, and serve with drawn 
butter. 

BOILED BEETS. 

Wash, boil till tender, rub off the skin, slice and sea- 
son with salt, pepper and melted butter. 

STEWED BEETS. 

Wash, parboil, rub off the skin, cut in slices, put in 
a stew pan, cover with milk, add a lump of butter 
rolled in flour, simmer till tender, and season with salt 
and pepper. 

BAKED BEETS. 

Bake in a moderate oven till tender, rub off the 
skins, baste with melted butter and lemon juice, put in 
the oven a few minutes, and serve hot. 

BEET SALAD. 

Mix equal quantities of boiled sliced beet and boiled 
sliced potato, and serve with cream dressing; or mix 
with onions, celery, endive and other vegetables, and 
serve with a French dressing. 



VEGETABLES. 11 

STRING BEANS. 

Remove the strings, put the beans in a small quan- 
tity of water — just enough to cover them — simmer 
gently till tender, drain, and serve with melted butter, 
or white sauce. Or break in small pieces, cook in a 
small quantity of water, let the water evaporate as the 
beans become sufficiently cooked, then add sweet 
cream, and season with salt and pepper. 

SHELLED BEANS. 

Put the beans in just sufficient water to cover them, 
stew gently till tender, add a little sweet cream, and 
season with salt and pepper; or omit the cream, and 
season with salt, pepper and butter. 

DRIED BEANS. 

Soal^ put to cook in a liberal supply of cold water, 
which must be poured off as soon as it boils and 
enough of cold water to barely cover the beans be 
added, salt lightly, cook gently until very tender, but 
not falling to pieces, and season with salt, pepper and 
butter; or serve with white, or brown sauce. 

BAKED BEANS. 

Put a piece of salt pork and a little molasses in a 
bean pot, or a deep stone jar, and fill to within three 
inches of the top with beans that have been boiled 
until the skins will crack when exposed to cold air, 



12 COOKERY MANUAL. 

and pour in enough of the water in which they were 
cooked to cover them. Place the lid on the jar. set it 
in the oven and bake from 6 to 12 hours — adding water 
occasionally, if needed. The quantity of pork and 
molasses can be varied to suit the taste, but the usual 
proportions are a pound of pork and two table spoon- 
fuls of molasses to a gallon of beans. The beans may 
be enriched with a small piece of butter instead of 
pork, or by adding a cup of sweet cream an hour be- 
fore they finish baking. 

BORECOLE OR KALE. 

Cook and serve the same as cabbage. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 

Boil till tender, drain, put in a sauce pan with a little 
melted butter, season with salt and pepper, simmer a 
few minutes, and serve on buttered toast; or serve plain. 

BROCOLI. 

Brocoli bears such a close resemblance to cauli- 
flower that it can scarcely be distinguished from it. 
Cook and serve in the same manner 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Wash, trim, boil gently until tender, drain carefully, 
put in a vegetable dish and dress with drawn butter, 
or white sauce. The white sauce may be flavored with 
Parmesan cheese, if liked. 



VEGETABLES. 13 

BOILED CABBAGE. 

Trim, wash and divide each head into quarters or 
eights boil till tender, drain, press out the water, and 
serve with white sauce or drawn butter. 

STEWED CABBAGE. 

Slice or chop the cabbage, stew until tender, but not 
soft, drain, add a little sweet cream or milk, simmer 
ten minutes, and season with salt and pepper. 

COLD SLAW. 

Slice crisp, firm cabbage very fine, dress with sugar, 
salt and vinegar ; or serve with a French, or cooked 
mayonnaise dressing. 

HOT SLAW. 

Slice or chop cabbage fine, stew till tender, season 
with salt, pepper and butter, add a little vinegar and 
serve. 

SOUR KROUT. 

Stew in its own liquor till tender, or fry until slightly 
brown, in fryings from bacon, or salt pork. 

BAKED CABBAGE. 

Chop boiled cabbage fine, add milk and beaten egg, 
season with salt and pepper, put in a buttered baking 






14 COOKERY MANUAL. 

dish, cover with seasoned bread crumbs and bake 
brown. Cold boiled cabbage can be used in this way 
advantageously. 

KOL-CANNON. 

Chop boiled cabbage fine, add an equal quantity of 
mashed potato, moisten with milk, season with salt 
and pepper, mix together thoroughly, and serve hot. 

STEWED CELERY. 

Cut in inch pieces, simmer until tender in a little 
water, add sweet cream, season to taste, and serve ; or 
pour over slices of toasted bread and serve hot. 

BOILED CARROTS. 

Wash, scrape, boil till tender, drain, season with but- 
ter, salt and pepper ; or slice, and serve with white 
sauce. 

STEWED CARROTS. 

Parboil, drain, slice, put in a stew pan with a little 
broth or milk, simmer till tender, season with salt, 
pepper and chopped parsley. 

FRIED CARROTS. 

Parboil, slice, fry in butter till brown on both sides, 
season with salt, pepper and chopped parsley. Or 



VEGETABLES. 15 

boil till tender, mash, season to taste, make into cakes 
and fry brown. 

SAVORY CARROTS. 

Put in a stew pan three ounces of butter, a table- 
spoonful of flour, a teaspoonful of minced parsley, half 
a tablespoonful of minced onion, a grating of nutmeg, 
and salt and pepper to taste, add a quart of sliced car- 
rots, cook gently-shaking the stew pan frequently — 
until the contents are a light brown color, then add a 
pint of broth, cover closely, and simmer until very 
tender. 

BOILED CORN. 

Husk, boil till tender, and serve on the cob ; or 
cut the corn from the cob, season with salt, pepper and 
butter, and serve in a heated dish. 

STEWED CORN. 

Cut the corn from the cob, scrape off the pulp and 
eyes, put in a stew pan with a half pint of water to 
each pint of corn, cover closely, stew gently till thor- 
oughly cooked — stirring occasionly to prevent the corn 
sticking to the pan and burning — season to taste with 
salt and pepper, add a little cream or butter, and 
serve. 



16 COOKERY MANUAL. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

Split each row of kernels through the middle while 
on the cob, shave off the corn in thin slices, and scrape 
out the pulp and eyes. To the corn from each dozen 
ears add the white of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth 
and three tablespoonfuls of flour, season with salt and 
pepper, and fry in spoonfuls in hot fat on a griddle, or 
in a spider. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

Beat together till smooth and light, one teacupful of 
sifted flour, one egg yolk, and half a teacupful of milk, 
stir in gradually half a teacupful of milk, and two tea- 
cupfuls of corn prepared as for oysters, add the white 
of an egg beaten to a froth, season to taste with salt, 
and fry in hot fat. 

CORN PUDDINO. 

To a quart of corn prepared as for oysters, add a 
quart of milk, four eggs, a teaspoonful of salt and a 
little pepper. Mix well together, pour into a buttered 
dish, and bake. 

CRESS. 

The various cresses are usually eaten raw, and 
dressed according to individual taste. Mixed with let- 
tuce and other salad plants they give them an agree- 
ble pungency. 



VEGETABLES, 17 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Pare the cucumbers, lay on ice or in cold water half 
an hour, slice thin, and dress with salt, pepper and 
vinegar. Cucumbers lose their crispness by soaking 
in vinegar, and should be served as soon as dressed. 
Their flavor is improved for most tastes by the addition 
of a few slices of onion. 

STEWED CUCUMBERS. 

Pare, split in pieces lengthwise, scrape out the seeds, 
boil five minutes, drain, cover with water, simmer un- 
til tender, thicken with flour and butter, and season 
with salt and pepper A few slices of onion can be 
added if liked. 

FRIED CUCUMBERS. 

Pare, cut in slices of equal thickness, wipe dry, roll 
in flour, fry brown in hot fat, season with salt and 
pepper. 

STUFFED CUCUMBERS. 

Cut off one end of each cucumber, scoop out the 
seeds, fill with a mixture of seasoned bread crumbs, 
egg yolk, minced onion and parsley, replace the ends, 
lay the cucumbers on thin slices of bacon in a drip- 
ping pan, pour in a little water, dust with salt, pepper 
and flour, bake in a quick oven, and serve with brown 
sauce. 



18 COOKERY MANUAL. 

FRIED EGG-PLANT. 

Cut in slices half an inch in thickness, lay in salted 
water an hour, wipe each slice dry, dip in flour or fine 
corn meal, season with pepper and fry brown in a little 
hot fat, or dip in beaten egg, then in fine crumbs, 
and fry in hot lard. 

BAKED EGG-PLANT. 

Pare, cut in pieces, boil until tender, drain, mash, 
season with salt and pepper, put in a baking dish cover 
with bread crumbs moistened with butter, and bake in 
a hot oven. 

ENDIVE. 

Endive is generally served raw as an ornamental 
addition to salads, but may be stewed in cream, brown 
gravy or butter, seasoned very lightly, and served hot. 

LETTUCE. 

Lettuce is usually served raw as a salad, and is 
dressed according to taste, with salt, sugar and vine- 
gar, or with French dressing. It is excellent cooked 
and served as greens, or as endive. 

GREENS. 

Brussels sprouts, cabbage sprouts, collards, borecole, 
endive, spinach, dandelions, young beets, mustard, let- 
tuce, narrow dock, corn salad, purslane, nettles and a 






VEGETABLES. 19 

large number of other edible plants and weeds are 
cooked and served in a similar manner under the gene- 
ral designation of "greens." Trim carefully, wash 
thoroughly, cook till tender, drain in a colander, and 
season to taste with salt, pepper, butter, vinegar, etc. 

HOMINY. 

Wash, put to cook in cold water slightly salted, and 
boil slowly for eight hours, or until tender. 

KOHLRABI. 

Cook and serve the same as turnip. 

KALE. 

(See Borecole.) 

STEWED MUSHROOMS. 

Put in a stew pan with a lump of butter, salt and 
pepper to taste, and a tablespoonful of lemon juice to 
each pint of mushrooms, cover closely, stew until ten- 
der, thicken with a teaspoonful of flour, add a little 
sweet cream, and serve. 

BAKED MUSHROOMS. 

Lay in a baking dish, sprinkle with melted butter, 
salt and pepper, and bake in a quick oven. 



20 COOKERY MANUAL. 

BROILED MUSHROOMS. 

Place in a wire gridiron, broil over a clear fire, lay on 
a hot dish, and season with salt, pepper, butter and 
lemon juice. 

MACARONI. 

Macaroni is composed of wheat flour and water, and 
is simply paste or dough pressed into shape and dried ; 
but it occupies the anomalous position of being gene- 
rally classed among vegetables. It is easily prepared 
for the table, makes a palatable, nutritious and inex- 
pensive dish, and should be more generally used. 

BOILED MACARONI. 

Break in pieces two or three inches in length, boil till 
tender enough to be easily mashed with the fingers, 
drain in a colander and serve with drawn butter, or 
with white, brown, tomato, or any other sauce. 

BAKED MACARONI. 

Boil, drain, put in a shallow baking dish, season to 
taste with salt and pepper, add a little sweet cream or 
milk, and a lump of butter, cover thickly with grated 
cheese, sprinkle with seasoned bread crumbs, and bake 
in a quick oven till nicely browned. 

STEWED MACARONI. 

Boil, drain, stew in cream, milk or broth, season to 
taste, and serve ; or serve with any kind of sauce. 



VEGETABLES. *1 

MACARONI PUDDING. 

Mince together equal portions of boiled chicken and 
boiled ham, add beaten egg, sweet cream and grated 
cheese, season with salt and pepper, mix with boiled 
macaroni, put into a buttered pudding mold, cover 
closely and simmer in boiling water about an hour ; 
or put in a baking dish and bake in the oven. Serve 
with any sauce liked. 

STEWED OKRA. 

Wash and slice the pods, simmer in a little water or 
broth till tender, and season with salt, pepper and 
butter. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Peel, boil till tender, drain, season with salt, pepper 
and butter. 

STEWED ONIONS. 

Peel, boil half an hour, drain, cover with milk, stew 
until tender, drain, mash or chop, add a little cream, 
stir until thoroughly heated, season with salt and pep- 
per and serve. Or when cooked tender and drained, 
dress and serve whole. 

BAKED ONIONS. 

Peel, boil till tender, roll each onion in tissue paper, 
bake an hour in a moderate oven, remove the paper, 
brown the onions, and serve with drawn butter. 



22 COOKERY MANUAL. 

SCOLLOPED ONIONS. 

Peel, boil till tender, drain, divide each onion into 
several pieces, place in a baking dish with alternate 
layers of seasoned bread crumbs, moisten with milk 
and bake a nice brown. 

GLAZED ONIONS. 

Peel, slice, put in a baking dish, moisten with brown 
sauce, or any well seasoned broth, and brown in the 
oven. 

SARATOGA ONIONS. 

Peel, slice thin, drop in smoking hot fat, fry till a 
light brown, drain in a colander, and serve hot. 

FRIED ONIONS. 

Peel, slice, put in a frying pan containing a small 
quantity of hot butter or drippings, cover, and fry 
slowly, turning them over frequently to prevent burn- 
ing. When tender, and a light brown color, season 
with salt and pepper, and serve. 

PARSLEY. 

For flavoring soups, stews, etc., parsley can be 
minced and sprinkled in them wrfile cooking. For 
garnishing it can be used raw, or can be put in a wire 
basket, plunged in hot oil or fat for a minute, drained, 
and then used. 



VEGETABLES. 23 

PUMPKIN. 

The old familiar pumpkin is cooked and served in 
every respect like the winter squash, which is so much 
drier, sweeter and finer grained, that it has nearly su- 
perseded it for table use. 

BOILED PARSNIPS. 

Wash, boil till tender, drain, cut in slices and serve 
with drawn butter, or with a white sauce, to which a 
little vinegar or lemon juice has been added. 

STEWED PARSNIPS. 

Wash, scrape, cut in pieces, stew tender, drain, press 
out the water, mash fine, season to taste, add a little 
cream or milk, and stir over the fire about five minutes. 

BROWNED PARSNIP. 

Wash, scrape, boil till tender, drain, roll in flour, and 
brown in drippings or butter, in the oven. 

FRIED PARSNIP. 

Wash, scrape, boil, drain, mash, season to taste, make 
into cakes and fry brown. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS. 

Mash two or three boiled parsnips, add a well beaten 
egg, two tablespoonfuls of milk, one tablespoonful of 



24 COOKERY MANUAL, 

flour, season to taste, drop by spoonfuls in a little hot 
butter and fry brown. 

BOILED PEAS. 

Shell the peas, tie in a muslin bag, simmer till ten- 
der and season with salt, pepper and butter. 

STEWED PEAS. 

Shell, put in a small quantity of boiling water, cover 
closely, and simmer until tender. Add sweet cream, 
a lump of butter rolled in flour, and season with salt 
and pepper. 

PEAS PUDDING. 

Soak dried peas several hours in cold water, tie 
loosely in a bag, boil till tender, rub through a sieve, 
add half a pint of cream and two beaten eggs, to each 
pint of peas, season to taste, tie up in a floured pud- 
ding bag, boil half an hour, and serve with melted but- 
ter, or white sauce. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Wash, wipe, put in a moderately hot oven and sub- 
ject to a gradually increasing heat until perfectly baked, 
then crack, place in a dish, leave uncovered, and serve 
hot. The starch in potatoes absorbs moisture when 
the cells are ruptured by heat, and unless baked or 
roasted potatoes are broken as soon as cooked, so the 



VEGETABLES. 25 

steam can escape, they become watery and dark col- 
ored, and lose their flavor. 

GERMAN POTATOES. 

Scoop out, and mash the flesh of partly baked pota- 
toes, mix with finely minced meat, season to taste, re- 
place in the scooped-out skins, put in the oven and 
bake. 

(STUFFED POTATOES. 
Scoop out and mash the flesh when partly baked, 
mix with grated cheese, bread crumbs and any other 
ingredients desired, season to taste, replace in the 
scooped-out shells and bake. 

BROWNED POTATOES. 

Pare, parboil, lay in the pan containing a fowl, or 
roast of meat, and turn over occasionally while cook- 
ing, so they may brown evenly. 

KENTUCKY POTATOES. 

Pare, slice, put in layers in a baking dish, moisten 
with milk or cream, season with salt and pepper and 
bake in a quick oven. 

Vary the liquid and seasoning used in preparing po- 
tatoes according to this formula, and each variation will 
produce a different dish that can, without impropriety, 
be named after any State in the Union. 



3b COOKERY MANUAL. 

POTATOES A LA ROYAL. 

Cut potatoes in balls, parboil, brown in the oven, and 
serve hot. 

Cut in other shapes, parboil, and brown in the same 
way, and they may be dignified with other pretentious 
titles. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Simmer gently and without interruption, whether 
pared or unpared, until tender enough to be pierced 
with a straw, drain, cover with a folded towel and set 
to dry off, where they will keep hot. 

SCOOPED POTATOES. 

Cut balls from pared potatoes with a vegetable scoop, 
boil and serve plain, or with any sauce desired. Old 
potatoes treated in this way, and served with a white 
sauce are often imposed upon unsuspecting guests as 
new potatoes. 

STEAMED POTATOES. 

Put the potatoes, whether pared or unpared, in a 
steamer, cover closely, set over a pot of boiling water, 
and cook till tender. 

STEWED POTATOES. 

Slice pared potatoes, stew gently till tender, drain 
and serve with white or other sauce ; or when drained, 



VEGETABLES. 27 

add a little cream or milk, season with salt, pepper and 
minced parsley, simmer a few minutes and serve. 

SARATOGA POTATOES. 

Pare, slice thin, soak in cold water, drain in a colan- 
der, dry thoroughly in towels, separate the slices, drop 
a few at a time into a kettle of hot lard, fry till a light 
brown, lift with a skimmer, drain on a sieve, sprinkle 
with salt, and serve hot or cold, as preferred. 

JULIENNE POTATOES. 

Slice with a crimped, instead of a plain or common, 
knife, and fry the same as Saratoga potatoes. 

POTATOES A LA FRANCAIS. 

Cut with a scoop or spoon, and fry in a quantity of 
hot grease. 

PARISIENNE POTATOES. 

Cut with a spoon, fry in hot grease and sprinkle with 
salt and minced parsley. 






FRIED POTATOES. 



Pared potatoes cut in slices and strips, or in rhom- 
boidal, globular, angular and other irregular shapes and 
cooked in hot fat are served as Saratoga, Julienne, 
Parisienne, etc., etc., but however varied the style, and 



28 COOKERY MANUAL. 

however fanciful the name under which they are made 
to do duty, they are simply— -fried potatoes ; and the 
secret of frying potatoes successfully — in whatever 
shape sliced, or by whatever name dignified — is to have 
the lard, oil or drippings at the proper temperature 
when they are put into it, and to keep it so during the 
entire process of cooking. 

BROILED POTATOES. 

Parboil, cut in tolerably thick slices, put in a wire 
gridiron, broil a nice brown on both sides, and season 
with salt, pepper and melted butter. 

CRISPED POTATOES. 

Boil in their skins, peel, place whole in a gridiron, 
crisp thoroughly over the fire, and serve hot. 

MASHED POTATO. 

Pare, boil or steam till tender, drain, dry off, mash 
fine in a warm pan or kettle, moisten, to the consis- 
tency liked, with hot milk, season with salt, pepper and 
butter, then beat very light with a wooden spoon or wire 
masher, and serve hot. Be careful to mash the potato 
till very smooth before, and to beat it till very light 
after, the seasoning is added. 

POTATO SNOW. 

Pare, boil, rub through a colander, allow the curly 
strings to pile up on a heated dish in a snowy mass, 
and serve hot. 



VEGETABLES. »» 

DUCHESSE POTATO. 

Boil, mash, season to taste, add beaten egg, work 
well, roll out flat, cut in narrow strips two or three 
inches in length, or squeeze through a pastry bag in 
shape of lady fingers, and brown in the oven. 

CASSEROLE OF POTATOES. 

Form an oval pile of mashed potato on a dish, make 
a hole in the centre the size desired, brush the surface 
with beaten egg yolk, set in a hot oven till nicely 
browned, fill the hole with stewed tomatoes, macaroni, 
or with ragout or stew of any kind, and serve hot. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Enrich mashed potato with beaten egg yolk, season 
with salt, pepper, lemon peel, nutmeg, mace or other 
spices, form into balls or rolls, dip in beaten egg and 
bread crumbs and fry in hot grease. 

SCOLLOPED POTATO. 

Fill buttered shells or patty pans with seasoned 
mashed potato, cover the surface with bread crumbs 
moistened with butter, and brown in a quick oven. 

POTATO PUFFS. 

Stir together a cup of milk, two cups of mashed po- 
tato, two well beaten eggs, two tablespoonfuls of butter 



30 COOKERY MANUAL. 

and a little salt, pour into a buttered baking dish, and 
bake in a quick oven. 

POTATO FRITTERS. 

To a pint of milk and the yolks of three eggs beaten 
well together, stir a half a dozen medium sized boiled 
potatoes grated or finely mashed, and flour enough to 
make a batter the proper consistency. Add a pinch of 
salt and the beaten whites of the eggs, and fry in hot 
grease. 

POTATO SOUFFLE. 

Put a quart of mashed potato with a little butter, in 
a stew pan over the fire, season to taste, add gradually 
half a pint of milk and the beaten yolks of two eggs, 
stir until the mixture begins to thicken, remove from 
the fire, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth, pour into a baking dish, smooth the surface and 
bake in a quick oven. 

POTATO BISCUIT. 

Add a cup of milk and half a teaspoonful of salt to a 
quart of mashed potato, work in flour until the dough 
is sufficiently consistent to roll out and cut into biscuit. 
Bake on a griddle or floured pan. Or a tables poonful 
of yeast can be added, the dough set to rise, and when 
light it can be shaped into biscuit or rolls and baked 
in the oven. 



VEGETABLES. 81 

POTATO AU GRATE*. 



Slice cold boiled potatoes, stew in broth or milk 
season with salt and pepper, sprinkle with grated 
cheese and bread crumbs, and brown in the oven. 

POTATOES POLONAISE. 

Stew cold sliced boiled potatoes in broth or milk, 
and dress with caper sauce. 

POTATO A LA MAITRE DE HOTEL. 

Stir together in a sauce pan over the fire equal por- 
tions of butter and flour, pour in a little milk, add cold 
boiled potato sliced, simmer till well heated, season 
with salt, pepper, minced parsley and lemon juice. 

POTATO A LA BARIGOULB. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes the shape of olives and fry 
with a spoonful of minced herbs, in olive oil. 

POTATO A LA PROVENCALS. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in balls, and fry with a few 
slices of onion in oil, butter or drippings. 

POTATO LYONNAISE. 

Cut cold boiled potato in dice, fry, with minced 
onion, in butter, season with salt and pepper, and 
sprinkle with chopped parsley. 



COOKERY MANUAL. 
POTATO BALLS. 



Enrich cold mashed potato with egg yolk, make into 
balls, dip in beaten egg, roll in corn meal or bread 
crumbs, and brown in a quick oven; or shape into 
cakes and fry in a little hot fat. 



TO STEW COLD POTATO. 



Slice cold boiled potato, put in a stew pan with cold 
gravy or milk, season with salt and pepper, and simmer 
till thoroughly heated. 



TO FRY COLD POTATO. 



Slice cold boiled potato, dredge lightly with flour, and 
fry brown; or fry without dredging. Or hash fine, sea- 
son with salt and pepper, and fry brown. 



POTATO HASH. 



Heat together in a stew pan, a spoonful of butter 
and a teacupful of milk seasoned with salt and pepper 
add cold hashed potato, cover closely and simmer 
gently till well heated. 



SWEET POTATOES. 



Sweet potatoes are much dryer and nicer steamed 
than boiled, but are at their best estate only, when 
baked. They can, however, be prepared very accept- 
ably, in many of the ways in which white potatoes are 
cooked and served. They should be cooked in their 
skins. 



VEGETABLES, 33 

BOILED RICE. 

Wash, soak an hour, drain, put in boiling water 
slightly salted — allowing two and a half measures of 
water to one of rice — boil till tender, cover with a folded 
towel, and set where it will dry off and keep hot. 

STEAMED RICE. 

Wash, soak an hour — allowing three measures of 
water to one measure of rice — set the vessel containing 
the rice and water in a steamer, add a little salt, and 
steam an hour, or until tender. If desired, part of the 
water may be omitted, and its equivalent in milk added 
when the rice is nearly done cooking. 

SPINACH. 

Trim, wash carefully, put in a small quantity of water, 
cover closely, boil till tender, drain in a colander, press 
out the water, season with salt, pepper and butter, 
and serve with poached eggs, or with hard boiled 
eggs cut in slices ; or, after it is cooked and drained, 
chop fine, put in a stew pan with a lump of butter, add 
a little sweet cream, season with salt and pepper, stir 
till well heated, and serve with poached, or hard boiled 
eggs. 

BOILED SALSIFY. 

Scrape, cut in pieces half an inch in length, boil till 
tender, drain, and serve with drawn butter or white 



81 COOKERY MANUAL. 

sauce ; or mash fine, season to taste, add a little cream 
and serve. 

FRIED SALSIFY. 

Boil, drain, mash fine, season to taste, add a spoon- 
ful of cream and a well beaten egg, make into small 
cakes and brown on a griddle, or fry in hot fat. 

SCALLOPED SALSIFY. 

Boil, drain, cut in slices, put in a baking dish with 
alternate layers of seasoned bread crumbs, moisten with 
milk and bake brown. 

SALSIFY TOAST. 

Slice, stew tender in milk, season with salt and pep- 
per, stir in two well beaten eggs, and pour over slices 
of hot buttered toast. 

SEA KALE 

Cook and serve the same as asparagus. 

BOILED TURNIPS. 

Wash, pare, boil till tender, drain in a colander, press 
out the water, mash fine, season with salt, pepper and 
butter, serve hot. Or cut in slices and serve with 
cream sauce, or with drawn butter to which vinegar or 
lemon juice has been added till slightly acid. 



VEGETABLES. 35 

STEWED TURNIPS. 

Wash, pare, boil fifteen minutes, drain, add a pint of 
milk to each quart of turnips, simmer till tender and 
serve with salt and pepper. 

BAKED TURNIPS. 

Wash, pare, boil half an hour, cut in thin slices, lay- 
in a buttered pudding dish, sprinkle with seasoned 
bread crumbs, moisten with milk and bake in the oven 
until a rich brown. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Peel and slice perfectly ripe tomatoes, arrange in a 
dish, set on ice or in a cold place, and serve plain, or 
with cream, French, or Mayonnaise dressing. Or 
arrange on a dish with alternate layers of sliced onions, 
and serve with French dressing. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Peel, slice, stew until very soft, and season with salt, 
pepper and butter. Or cream may be substituted for 
butter, and a delicate flavoring of mace or nutmeg, if 
liked, can be added. Simple broth or stock of any 
kind may be used for stewing tomatoes, and a small 
quantity of onion added for flavoring. The stew may 
also be thickened, if desired, by the addition of bread 
crumbs, boiled rice, macaroni, corn starch or flour. 






COOKERY MANUAL 
BAKED TOMATOES. 



Wash and wipe smooth ripe tomatoes, remove the 
stems with a sharp pointed knive, place in a baking 
dish, cook in a moderately hot oven till nicely browned, 
season with salt, pepper and butter. 

SMOTHERED TOMATOES. 

Cut in halves, put skin side down in a buttered 
baking dish, season with salt and pepper, cover with 
fine bread crumbs, moisten with butter and bake in the 
oven. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Make a hole in the centre of each tomato, fill with 
bread crumbs, season with salt, pepper and butter, 
and bake. Or scoop out the inside, put in a sauce pan 
with some finely minced ham, onion, parsley and bread 
crumbs, stew fifteen minutes, season with salt, pepper 
and butter, fill the scooped out tomato skins with the 
mixture, and bake. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Fill a baking dish with alternate layers of sliced to- 
mato and seasoned bread crumbs, and bake in the oven. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Slice firm unpeeled tomatoes, season with salt and 
pepper, dip in flour, corn meal, or bread crumbs, and 
fry until brown. 



VEGETABLES. 37 

BROILED TOMATOES. 

Slice impeded tomatoes, dip in olive oil or melted 
butter, then in flour or fine bread crumbs, place in a 
wire broiler and cook quickly. 

FRICASSEED TOMATOES. 

Slice, fry a nice brown in butter, and lift to a warm 
plate. Pour a little sweet cream in the frying pan, 
season with salt and pepper, and turn boiling hot over 
the tomatoes. 

BOILED SQUASH. 

Pare, remove the seeds, cut into pieces suitable for 
serving, put in a covered vessel with a small quantity 
of boiling water, simmer gently until tender, serve with 
melted butter, white sauce, or brown sauce; or dry off, 
mash fine, and season with salt, pepper and butter. 

STEAMED SQUASH. 

Cut in halves, remove the seeds, steam until tender, 
scoop out of the skin, and season to taste. 

BAKED SQUASH. 

Cut in two or more pieces, scrape out the seeds, put 
in a pan, skin side down, bake and serve with butter; 
or scoop out of the skin, and season with salt and 
pepper. 



38 COOKERY MANUAL. 

FRIED SQUASH 

Pare, steam or stew till sufficiently tender, drain, roll 
in beaten egg, then in crumbs and fry in hot fat. 

SUMMER SQUASH. 

Cut in pieces, stew, drain, mash and season with salt, 
pepper, butter and sweet cream. Or cut in slices, and 
fry, the same as egg-plant. 



Supplementary Suggestions, 



Most vegetables can be prepared for the table in a 
variety of ways ; and in a majority of cases, a large 
number belonging to a special class, can be cooked and 
served according to the recipes applicable to the prep- 
aration of any single vegetable of that class. 

By a judicious admixture of two or more vegetables 
many dishes may be formed that possess characteristics 
peculiar only to such combinations, and of which the 
different vegetables composing them are destitute 
when served separately. 

Simmering in broth or plain stock improves the fla- 
vor of some vegetables, and "pot liquor." or the water 
in which ham, pork, corned beef and other salt meats 
have been boiled, when freed from grease, may be used 
for cooking vegetables in, if prefered to clear water. 

Cooked vegetables need never be thrown away or 
wasted. They should all be saved and utilized. By 
skillful re-warming they can be converted into number- 
less dishes that are attractive and appetizing, and in 
their preparation can be so varied as to suit almost 
every taste and fancy. 



(^ookerg jjffxnuate. 



INTo. 4< 



BY 



MRS. EMMA P. EWLTSTG. 



Author af "Soup and Soup Making," "Bread and Bread Making, 
"Salad and Salad Making," Etc. 



CHICAGO: 

FAIRBANKS, PALMER & CO. 
1884. 



&D 



%* 







<0^ ^> *• • >* A 



^ . 







<» *£ 













■*°° ,. \ 








. /\ <i -^ a AWN 







M*V 



* A V ^. 






