j\^/ ^^ -^^ '^jm^.* . '^' ^ -.^^^^r ,^v 










"•■• *^ 











; \.,^'' .'^t- %,^* --^aWa'. '^..,/ •■^^'- ^ 








.0 



.^^ 









.Hq 






^^ -^^^ .v^ /^WV^ >^ c-?^ 



iWt 



^^ .!. 



X. V' >. 



-,<> 



^^ 






^^s' 






MM'. 



:.><.C^fe>o<o 



COLLECTION OF TRIED RECIPES. 




" We maj- live 
We may live 
We may live 
But civilized 
We may live 
We may live 
\Ve may live 
Hut where is 



without poetry, music and art ; 

without conscience, and live without heart : 

without friends ; we may live without books : 

men cannot live without cooks. 

without books-what is knowledge but grieving • 

without hope- what is hope but deceiving y 

without love -what is passion but pining ! 

the man that can live without dining ? " 

Owen Meredith. 



C^' 



0\ 



r 







r 




TROY, NY.: 
C. L. MARTIN, BOOK AND JOB PRINTER, 

1884. 



-^li 



COPY-RIGHT. 

1883. 



^« CONTENTS 



Pago. 
Soups 7 

Fish 1 I 

Meats 17 

Game 27 

Garnishing for Dishes :>() 

Vegetables 8.J 

Salads .'>! 

Pies 37 

Puddings 42 

Jellies and Preserves 50 

Fancy Desserts 103 

Ice Cream 1 1 •? 

Cake 110 

Bread 127 

Pickles 133 

Candy 138 

Domestic Hygiene 140 

Baby Hygiene 143 

Foods and Dishes for the Sick 145 

Miscellaneous 1 o2 



PREFACE. 

This book is a compilation of recipes, furnished largely 
by the Ladies of the State Street Methodist Episcopal 
Church, and as each recipe has been tried and warranted 
it IS issued with the assurance that it will add to the 
general fund of knowledge in cookery. 

We desire to acknowledge our indebtedness to Miss 
Parloa, for permission to use some of her valuable 
recipes, and would call attention to the fact that in 
addition to the general copyright of this book, they are 
each protected by the special copyright of her publishers. 
While It would be unnecessary to make mention of any 
recipes as possessing superior exceUence, we would call 
particular attention to the chapter on Domestic Hygiene 
together with the recipes found under the head Foods and 
Drinks for the Sick. These have been kindly prepared for 
this book, by one of our city physicians, and being rarely 
found m books of convenient reference, will, we think 
prove of the highest importance and benefit. 

The Compilers. 



INDEX OF ADVERTISERS. 



APOTHECARIES, &C. 
Chas. A. Bostvorth 67 

D. F. Magill 85 

Drake & Moffit 87 

A. M. Knowlsou 101 

L Burton & Co 66 

ART STORES. 
J. P. Herbert 88 

E. L. Everett 91 

J. Hicks 98 

ART STUDIO. 

Miss Ida F. Palis 97 

BAKERY. 

C. B. Dexter 96 

BOOK-BINDING. 

Wm. Bliss 89 

BOOKS & STATIONERY. 

Howe & Smyth 95 

BOOTS & SHOES. 

C. D. Packard & Son 79 

M. B. Sherman (Albany.) 92 

C. E. Sheffer (Albany.)' 91 

CARPENTER &"BUILDER. 

C. A. Meeker 80 

CARPETS. 

A. B. VanGaasbeek & Co (Albany) 83 

CARPET BEATING. 

E. Westervelt 101 

CLOTHING. 

Wilson & Gross (Albany) 57 

Morris Gross 65 

Henry L. Smith (Albany) 69 

E. S. Randall 85 

Julius baul 102 

COAL. 

Stone & Crandell 68 

Peterson & Packer 76 

James O'Neil 80 

J. H. Tapper 95 

CONFECTIONERY. 

Charles F. Graser 97 

Thomas Ryan 88 

Huyler 95 

CROCKERY, BRONZES, &C. 
Van Huesen & Charles (Albany). .75 

Starkweather & Allen 100 

DRY GOODS. 
W. M. Whitney & Co. (Albany;. . .56 

W. H. Frear 64 

G. V. S. Quackenbush & Co 73 

Johnson & Reilly (Albany) 75 



J. G. Myers (Albany) 81 

W. C. Winne & Co 82 

Church & Phalen 81 

J. B. Hall 84 

FANCY & FURNISHING GOODS. 

T. H. Magill 89 

Fleming & Oakley 95 

Miss S. B. Jordan 97 

Wilkinson, Jr. & Orr 98 

Peck & Brothers lOO 

FLOUR. 

D. H. Flack & Son 79 

FLORIST. 

Misses Clark 66 

FRESCO PAINITNG. 

E. R. Wales... 80 

FURNITURE. 

Robert Keith & Co 77 

A. L. Hotehkin ...84 

Green & Waterman 98 

FURS, HATS. &C. 

Cottrell & Leonard (Albany) 83 

E. W. Boughton & Co 87 

S. B. Mount 88 

Stamper & Strait 96 

GAS & STEAM FITTING PLUMBING 

Wm. Ferguson 60 

W. H. Barnes 77 

GROCERS. 

C. E. Delano 63 

E. B. Cox ;.'86 

Marsten & Masters 71 

Thos. Ganley 93 

J. J. Gillespie 97 

Cohen Brotliers lOl 

John Warr 102 

HARDWARE. 

J. M. Butcher & Son 93 

A. E. Bonesteel loi 

HOUSE FURNISHING COODS. 

J. F. Kelly ei 

E. A. Burrows & Co 82 

T. 0. Stiles ■;'9i 

M W. Scriveii & Co '.g-^ 

Thomas Devine & Son 93 

JEWELERS. 

H. Rowland (Albany) 64 

Jones & Podmore 72 

M. Timpane 76 

Andrew Aird 87 

J. W. Cusick '.'!.'.'.'! 92 



S. C. Tappin 96 

Thomas Goldsmith 98 

LIVERY. 

J. H. Williamson & Son 84 

MARKETS. 

A. Kavanagh 100 

MILLINERY. 

Mrs. J. A. Can- 81 

OYSTERS. 

W. A. Webber 81 

Stout & Stillman 92 

M. A. Morrissev 96 

PAPER HANGINGS. 

H. Lobdell & Co -...63 

J. F. Ashley & Co 73 

PHOTOGRAPHERS. 

Lloyd 8ft 

Zeph. F. Ma2:ill 100 

PIANOS & ORGANS. 

Cluett & Sons 55 

H. L. Grevwaek 60 



PRINTERS. 

C. L. Martin 8S> 

RUBBER GOODS. 

D. Klock, Jr 69 

SEWING MACHINES. 

Wheeler & Wilson Mfg. Co 71 

The National Machine Co 66 

STAMPING. 

J. G. Mairs 92 

A. A. Dovle 85 

STAMPED WARE. 

Troy Stamping Works 59 

STOVES & HEATERS. 

W. A. Sherman 72 

J. B. Butler 91 

TOYS & FANCY ARTICLES. 

Troy Dollar Store 81 

WOODEN-WARE. 

Peabody & Parks 89 

YEAST. 
National Yeast Cakes 67 



ERKATA. 

Pai^ell "Lobster Cutlets/' Should be one- half tahU- 
spoonful cream. 

Page 11. " Deviled Clams or Oysters." Should be two 
and one-half tables poonfuls flour. 

Page 2S. "Broiled Quail." Should be then Z^ro^/e^Z in- 
stead of then boiled. 

Page 3t!. "Salad Dressing." Should be one salt spoon- 
ful of salt. 

Page -t2. "Lemon Pudding." Should be two heaping 
tahJ es])Ooniu\s> Corn Starch. 

Page 4(!. "Favorite Pudding." Add two tahlesjpoon- 
f'tih melted butter. 

Page 4(5. "Snow Pudding." Should be one and one- 
half cups powdered sugar. 

Page 10.3. '• Strawberry Shortcake." A&d. three eggs. 

Page 107. " Chocolate Custard." Should read, add to the 
boiling 7nilk and sugar. 

Page i;;8. "For Two Loaves Bread." Should be one z^m- 
spoonful of salt. 

Page 134. "Chow Chow." Should be one dozen large 
seed cucumbers. 

Page 1 34. "Mrs. Eldridge's French Pickles." Should 
read, boil fifteen minutes, then drain again. 

Page 13<). '' Green Tomato Pickle." Should be one and 
one-half ounces of whole cloves, also, one 
ounce of ground pepper ;in serf after, "slice the 
the tomatoes and onions," sprml'Ze with salt, 
and let stand over night', in the morning, drain 

Page 137. " Pickled Peaches." Should be eight pounds 
peaches. 

Page 142. " First Paragraph." Should read, be regularly 
immersed in a solution of chloride, wheji latin- 
dried. 

Page 155. " New England Pork and Beans." Should be 
two )fa7V<?spoonfuls molasses. 



^^325asa5aBE5E52J5SEHSSEHS2SZSS5HSHSH5HSHS255a5i2SHSaS2525ig 



'Ik3 ^4J' CJ JL S3 



JPS^ 



STOCE FOR CLEAR SOUP. 



-^-B, 



'our pounds of the middle cut of a shin of beef>, 
one small onion, one-third head of celery, one teaspoon- 
ful of whole black pepper, one teaspoonful of whole 
white pepper, six cloves, a little turnip, one carrot; for 
€ach pound of beef one pint of cold water and one pint 
over for boiling away, one tablespoonful of salt. Ee- 
move the marrow from the bone, place the meat in cold 
Water and bring it quickly to a boil. Skim very carefully, 
then add all the other ingredients. Simmer slowly for 
five hours. Stand over night. Remove the fat from the 
top; place over the fire until tepid. Beat whites and shells of 
two eggs with a tablespoonful of cold water and little 
pepper and salt. When the stock is tepid add this and stir 
until the stock boils. Simmer for ten minutes. Strain 
through toWeL Serve hot, 

Mrs. E. McCniiSNEY. 

Black Bean Soup, 
Soak three quarts of beans (black) over night in 
enough water to cover them. In the morning boil them 
in the same water five or six hours, with two pieces of 
pork four inches square by two inches thick. When the 
beans are quite soft mash them through the cullender. 

iJasasasasaSHSEEHSHEHSESESHSHSaSESaSHSaSZEESBSHScLSaSEEHSEi 



^; CHOP-STICKH. 

Also, in the morning put on a shank of beef to boil, in 
cold water. When this is boiled to shreads, strain and 
mash through the cullender too. Now put both togetlier 
on the fire and boil slowly one-half hour. Season with 
salt and pepper to your taste, (a little ground cloves if 
you like. ) Put this in a stone jar in a cold place, with 
care it will keep four or five days. Take out w^hat 
is needed (without disturbing the whole,) and just let it 
come to a l)oil. Cut up a lemon in thin slices, hard boiled 
egg (yolk) crumbled. Serve hot. 

P. 

Black Bean Soup. 

Soak one quart of black beans over night m four 
quarts of water; boil in same w^ater with one pound 
beef, one-half pound salt pork, one large carrot, one onion, 
five cloves. Boil until beans are soft. Remove the meat 
and vegetables, strain and season. If not salt enough 
from the pork, add a little more. Slice a lemon or cold 
boiled egg. 

Mhs. J. J. G Y. 

Stewed Oysters. 

Take one hundred oysters; put over the fire with one 
pint water and teaspoonful salt. Let them just come to 
a boil. Pour into a fine sieve and save the w^ater for fu- 
ture use. Wash out the kettle and pour back the clear 
w^ater, one-half pound butter, (mace and cloves if liked) 
Let it come to a boil; then put in oysters and after it has 
boiled up again add one pint cream and boil once more. 

Mrs. Stkvens(»x. 

Macaroni Soup. 

To six pounds of beef, two onions, one carrot, one tur- 
nip, one head of celery, add four quarts of cold water. 
Boil two or three hours, until reduced to two quarts. 
L'it it cool; next day take off the grease and pour off 

EHsasHSHSEsasasHsasasEsasESHsasESEsssassssESEssasHsasasii 



CHOP-STICKS. U 

from the sediment half an hour before dinner. Add 
salt and a pint of broken macaroni also a tablespoouful 
a:id a half of tomato catsup. 

G. 
Clam Soup, 

Fifty clams, rinse them out of their liquor. Strain and 
put the clams back into the liquor. Add a pint of water 
and boil up. Take out and chop fine; add a pint of boil- 
ing water to the hquor. Stir a tablespoouful of flour 
and two of butter to a cream. Stir it quickly into the 
liquor. Turn all into a dish and add a pint of boihng 
milk. 

Stock for Soup a la Reine, 

One fowl, two quaifs cold water, one onion, six cloves, 
one-third head of celery and three gills cream. Place 
the fowl in cold water. Boil until tender, then cut off all 
the white meat. Add the celery, onion, and cloves. 
■Cook two hours with all but the w^hite meat. Strain, 
•cool, removing the fat. Heat, then chop very finely the 
white meat; add three gills cream. Pepper and salt. 
Mix well; add it to the hot stock; stir until it boils. Serve 
at once, 

Mrs. K McChksney. 

BOULLION. 

Two pounds lean beef, chopped fine; pour over it one 
quart of cold water. Put it in a porcelain kettle; cover 
tight and let it simmer four honrs. Strain off the tea 
■and let it cool. Beat the white of one egg and add to the 
tea. Put it on the stove and stir until it conies to a boil. 
Let it boil until it becomes perfectly clear; skim, then 
strain through a fine napkin. Season with salt to taste. 

Potato Soup. 

Pare and boil 10 potatoes, strain tliem through a cull- 
ender Add three tablespoonfuls of butter, one teas[)oon- 

]SESHSHSESE5HSE5a5E5E5E5HSaSH5aEH5H5E5i!SH5aSH5Z5ZEHSESHSll 



10 CHOP-STICKS. 

ful of salt. Boil three pints of milk; add the potato 
slowly. Season with one onion finely chopped; a httle 
inace and white pepi>er. Break a few crackers in the 
tureen and pour soup over. 

Mrs. J. J. G y. 

Tomato Soup. 

Put one quart of water into a kettle, and hoihng, add 
one quart of tomatoes. When it boils again put in one 
small teaspoonf ul of soda and as soon as it is done foam- 
ing add one pint milk; four rolled crackers. Season with 
large piece butter. Salt and pepper. 

Mks. R. S. Norton. 

Tomato Soup. 

One quart of tomatoes, three pints of water, one cof- 
fee cup of milk; butter the size of an egg, rubbed in two 
tablespoonfuls of flour. Salt and pepper to your taste. 
Boil until thoroughly done. Serve hot. 

M. 

Egg-balls to serve with Soup. 

Four eggs, a teaspoonf ul of flour, a teaspoonf ul of water. 

Boil three eggs for six minutes; take the yolks and pound 

them to a paste; add the flour and the yolk of the raw 

egg; beat together smooth then roll into httle balls. 

Throw them in the boiling soup for two minutes before 

serving. 

P. 

Noodles for Soup. 

Take an egg, two tablespoonfuls of flour, a small tea- 
spoonful of baking powder, a little salt. Beat the egg 
light, stir the flour with the baking powder and salt, 
add the egg. Ten minutes before serving the soup 
drop the batter from a spoon into it. 

Mrs. R. S. N. 



lia5HSaSE5H5H5H5iasa5ESESE5ESHSH5ESa£E5ESESH£E5H!iHEZ5H5H!Ifil 

chop-sticks. 11 

Bread-Dice for Soup. 
Take slices of slale bread; cut in small squares. Throw 
into hot lard and fry until brown. Skim out, drain, and 
put into the soup tureen before serving the soup. 

Mrs. R S. N, 



F 



Lobster Cutlets. 

One lobster, one ounce butter, one ounce flour, one gill 
cold water, one-half teaspoonful cream, pepper and salt, 
a few drops of lemon juice, a little cayenne, one egg, 
four tablespoonfuls bread crumbs. Cut the lobster in 
small pieces. Melt the butter in sauce pan; stir in the 
flour; then add one gill of cold water and stir until it boils. 
Cook two minutes. Add salt, pepper, cayenne, cream, 
mix well; add lemon juice; stir into the mixture the 
meat of the lobster. When cold divide it into five pieces; 
make into cutlets. Beat one egg; dip the cutlets into the 
egg, then roll in bread crumbs; fry in very hot fat two 
minutes. 

Mes. E. McChesney. 

Devilled Clams or Oysters. 

One pint of clams and hquor, to which add one gill of 
water, after which throw away one gill of mixed liquor 
and water Let this come to a boil. Then pour into a 
cullender. Add to the strained liquor two tablespoonfuls 
butter, two tablespoonfuls flour. Boil until it thickens, 
then stir in two eggs, one tablespoonful chopped parsley, 

Ba5E5H5H5H5ESB5H5a5E5HSHSa5SSaSHSH5HSHSHSH5a5HSHSHSHSH5B 



f 



12 CHOP-STICKS. 

pepper and salt to taste. Then chop the clams very fine 
and add to m'xtur^ described. Let it boil one mir.u'e 
and put away to cool. When cool put into clam shells 
and sprinkle ci-ackers over tliem.. Bake from three- 
quarters of an hour to one hour. For oysters no water is 
needed for juica. 

MkS. D. C'lUKI . 

Clam Fritters. 
Two cups of sweet milk, three eggs, one teaspoon- 
f ul of soda, two of cream of tartar. Beat the eggs. Dis- 
solve the soda in the milk; then put the cream of tai'tar 
in the flour. Put in flour until you can drop them. 
Chop well twenty-five clams and stir with the batter, and 
fry in hot lard. 

PiciCLED Oysters. 

Take fifty large plump oysters; simmer them in their 
own liquor, after having the liquor boil up twice and 
skimmed perfectly, take them out and to the liquor add 
an equal quantity of good cider vinegar, seasoned with 
two dessert spoonfuls of salt, one dessert spoonful white 
pepper, one dessert spoonful who'e allspice, on^ dessert 
spoonful whole cloves, two or three blades of mace. 
Let it boil up once and pour over the oysters. Keep cool, 

P. 
Pickled Oysters. 

One hundred large oysters out of shell, one pint vine- 
gar, one dozen blades mace, two dozen whole cloves, 
four dozen whole black peppers. Put about a dozen 
oysters on a tin pie-dish and set in steamer. Steam until 
filled out; say about five or ten minutes; then pour in 
earthen dish; cover closely and set on backpart of stove. 
Eepeat process until all are steamed. Slice about two 
lemons into them and let them stand until vinegar, spices, 
liquor and little salt are heated together. Pour over 
oysters; cover and set away in a cool dark place. If pre- 
pared early in the day will be ready for tea, or keep in 
glass cans several days. 

^aPE5HSESE5iES35H5ESESEES5HSE5S5E5E5H5ESZSH5E5E5E5E5ZSHSIl 



liESa5HSasa5S5E5H5ESaSH5E5HS25H5E5BSSSHSHEHIIE5H5H£:E5EEE!IM 
chop-sticks. 18 

Oyster Patties, 

One quart of oysters minced fine with a sharp knife, 
rot a chopper — one large spoonful butter drawn in a cup- 
ful of milk or cream and thickened with a teaspoon- 
ful of cornstarch, previously wet with cold milk. 
Salt and i^epper to taste. Drain the liquor from the 
oysters and chop them as directed. When the milk has 
been boiled and thickened and the butter well mixed, stir 
in the oysters, and stew about tive minutes; stirring all 
the while. Have ready some shapes of nice puff paste, 
rnd fill w^ith the mixture, ^et in the oven about two 
minutes to heat them well, then send to table. 

Mrs, M, H, 
Oyster Fritters. 
{French Style) 

Two eggs, half a pint of milli, sufficient flour to make 
a batter. Twenty-five oystei-s, Fiy five or six minutes. 

P. 
Scalloped Oysters. 

Three pints of oysters, two cups of cracker crumbs, one 
and one-half cups of melted butter; pepper and salt. 
Make layers of these ingredients. After the dish is 
filed, add the oyster juice and ?,s much milk as they will 
absorb. Bake in a quick oven about fifteen minutes. 

Mrs Jos. H. Knight. 

Oyster Sauce. 
Prepare a nice drawn butter quite thick. Scald the 
oysters in their own liquor, and stir them in the drawn 
butter. Mix well and let the sauce nearly boil. Pour 
in a dish and serve hot. 

M. 
Fried Oysters. 

Take your oysters out of their liquor with a fork; 
dry them in a towel. Beat up two eggs (more or less) 
yolks and whites together. Dip your oysters (with a 



U CHOP-STICKS. 

tork) into this, then in powdered cracker. Lay them on 
a large plate so they will not touch. Put them in a cool 
place for two or three hours, and then fry them in boil- 
ing fat. 

P. 

Codfish Croquettes, 

One and three-fourth pounds of mashed potatoes, one 
pound of salt codfish, five ounces of butter, one gill of 
cream or milk, a half teaspoonful of pepper^ one egg. 
Pour cold w^ater on the fish; let it come to a boil and then 
pour off the water. Melt the butter in the hot potato; 
add the fish, cream and pepper, beat very hard and light 
with a fork until perfectly smooth. Make into balls, 
then drop in hot lard like doughnuts, 

Mrs. L. M, B. 

Codfish a-la-Cream. 

Two large cups of codfish, picked very fine, and 
freshened. Take nearly a cup of milk and bring it to a 
scald and add a teaspoonful of butter and a heaping 
teasix)onful of cora starch in a little cold milk. Drain the 
fish quite dry; stir fish and milk together and put in a 
baking dish. Sprinkle fine bread crumbs over the top, 
and speck it with small bits of butter. Bake half an 
hour, or until brow^n. 

Mrs, J. J. G — ^— y. 

Codfish Balls. 

Two cups of warm mashed potatoes, one and one-half 
cups codfish picked fine and freshened. Let the fish 
Just come to boiling and drain off water. Add two eggs, 
butter half the size of small egg. Beat w^ell together 
with a fork until light. Take up with a teaspoon and 
drop in boiling lard and fry as you Would dough- 
nuts. They must be cold before beginning to fry them. 

Mrs, Wu. G, J n. 



gE5H5H5H5HEH52SESESE5ESE5HSi5HSE5E5ESE5E5EE11IiE5Ei;ZIIZEEIIB 

chop-sticks. 15 

Soft Shell Crabs. 

Lift the shell at both sides and remove the spungy 
substance found on the back. Then pull off the apron, 
which will be found on the under side, and to which is 
attached a substance like that removed from the back. 
Then wipe tne crabs, and dip them in beaten egg, and 
then in bread crumbs. Fry in boiling fat. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Take large oysters, drain off the liquid. Crush crack- 
ers and put in the baking dish a layer of crumbs, pepper, 
salt, and butter then a layer of o^^stei-s. Repeat this until 
dish is full, then pour over one-half a cup of tlie liquid, 
one quart of milk with a beaten egg in it. Let the top 
and bottom layers be crackers, and bake three-quarters of 
an hour. 

Mrs. L. H. Wait. 

Fried Fish. 

One large fish, about two pounds, one tablespoonful 
of flour, one egg, thi'ee tablesiX)onfuls of bread crumbs, 
a little salt and pepper. Remove the skin and bone. 
Add a little salt and pepper to the bread crumbs. Roll 
the pieces of fish, first in the flour, next in the egg 
— well beatin — then in the bread crumbs. Fry in very 
hot lard, enough to cover the fish. Fry four minutes. 
Place on paper for a moment, then serve. 

Mrs. E. McChesney. 

Fish Cakes. 

One pound of cold cooked fresh fish, one pound of po- 
tatoes, one ounce butter, one-half tablespoonful of milk, 
pepper and salt, a little cayenne, two eggs, four table- 
spoonfuls bread crumbs. Sepamte the fish from the 
skin and bone and cut in small pieces. Place in bowl, 
add pepper, salt, cayenne and butter. Boil one pound 



IG CHOP-STICKS, 

of potatoes; pass through a sieve into the bowl with the 
fish. Add milk — cream is preferred. Add yolks of eggSy 
mix well together; flour the board and make into small 
flat cakes. Beat the whites of eggs sliglitly, then dip 
the cakes first in the egg, then in bread crumbs. Fry in 
very hot fat, enough to cover. Fry two minutes, after 
which place for a moment on paper, then serve. 

Mks, E. McChesney, 

Fried Oysters, 

One dozen large oysters, one tablespoonful flour, two 
tablespoonfuls milk, four tablespoon fuls cracker dusty 
four tablespoonfuls bread crumbs^ a little salt and pep- 
per, a little cayenne, one egg. Mix the milk and flour 
smoothly, dry the oysters and roll them singly in the 
batter, place on a sheet of paper, the ci'acker dust with 
salt, pejDper antl cayenne, roll well in the cracker dust 
and let them stand one-half hour. Beat well the egg 
and add a little pepjjer and salt to the bread crumbs. 
Dip the oysters into the egg, then roll in the bread 
crumbs. Fry three minutes in hot lard. A blue smoke 
must I'ise from the fat before it is hot enough. Place 
the oysters for a moment on paper. Garnish with parsley, 

Mrs. E. McChesney. 

Lobster Croquettes. 

Chop fine the meat of a two pound lobster; take also 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, enough water or cream to 
make very moist, one egg, salt and pepper to taste, and 
half a tablespoonful of flour. Cook butter and flour to- 
gether until they bubble. Add the cream or water (about 
a scant half cupful), then the lobster and seasoning, andy 
when hot, the egg well beaten. Set away to cool. Shape, 
then dip in egg and cracker crumbs, and fry as usual. 

[copy-eight.] Miss Parj.oa, 

ie5e5h52£h5h£esh5s5ssh5e5esz5esh5z5h5hsses5e5ilsh5z5h5h5el 



chop-stioks. 17 

Little Pigs in Blankets. 

Season large oysters with salt and pepper, cut fat Eng- 
lish bacon in very thin slices, wrap an oyster in each 
slice and fasten with a little wooden skewer (tooth picks 
are the best things) Heat a frying pan very hot and put 
in the 'kittle pigs." Cook just long enough to crisp the 
bacon— about two minutes. Place on slices of toast 
that havel>een cut in small pieces, and serve immediately. 
Do not remove the skewers. Garnish with parsley. 

[ COPY-RIGHT.] Miss Paeloa. 



A LA MODE Beef, 

Take fourteen pounds of beef from the round. Cut 
strips of pork as long as the beef is high. Season with 
salt, pepper (and cloves if you like.) Make holes in the 
beef— with a long narrow knife if convenient— clear 
through, then lard the beef with the strips of seasoned 
pork, as you would a partridge. For the force meat 
balls, take one pound of beef, one onion and a little piece 
of pork; chop all together very fine; season with salt, 
and pepper as you did the pork. After larding the beef 
with the ix)rk, stuff the holes with some of the force meat. 
Now place the meat on a large dish; pour over the meat 
one tumbler of brandy and water, also sprinkle a httle 
flour over it. Let it stand all night; in the morning 
bind it tight with a cloth, and cook it slowly four hours. 
llSHjHSHaEJH5HEaaHS^3S5H5cSH515H5HSlSZ3a5ZaH5H5nasa5H52SBS 



IS CHOP-STICKS. 

Make the rest of the force meat up in httle balls, and 
put them on top of the meat — two hours. While cook- 
ing take them out and brown them in "a pan, with a lit- 
tle butter. When you put the meat in the pot, put in 
one cup of hot w^ater. While cookings cover with onions 
and carrots. 

P. 

Kromisquies Kusse. 

One-fourth pound cold turkey, (fowl of any kind may 
be used) four ounces of flour, two ounces of butter, one 
gill of milk, one gill tepid water, a little grated nutmeg, 
pepper and salt, one-fourth pound raw bacon, white of 
one egg. Cut tlie turkey in sjuall pieces; melt one ounce 
of the butter, and stir into it one ounce of the dry flour^ 
and w^hen this is mixed, add one gill of milk, stir until 
it boils; add nutmeg, (a very little,) pepper and salt. 
Stir into this the small pieces of the turkey; mix thorough- 
ly then turn into a plate and let it become cold. Cut one- 
fourth pound of bacon into thin slices, rolling a little of the 
mixture in each slice. Place in the bowl three ounces of 
flour, then melt one ounce of butter, pour it into the 
centre of the dry flour, after which add one gill of tepid 
water, and mix; then whip to a stiff froth tha white of 
one egg — -add the white of egg just before cooking; 
into this batter, one by one dip the little rolls of bacon. 
Fry in very hot lard five minutes, place on paper for a 
moment when fried. Garnish with parsley. 

Mrs E. McChesney. 

Beef Loaf. 

Three pounds raw beef chopped fine, one tablespoon- 
ful black pepper, one tablespoonful salt, eight tablespoon - 
fals crackers rolled fine,thr3e tablajpoDnfuh sweat cream, 
one tablespooiiful sage, three tablespoonfuls malted but- 



CHOP-STICKS. 11* 

ter, two eggs. Mix well together. Bake two hours. 
Baste often. When cold slice as needed. 

Mrs. Mary E. Ingalls. 

Boiled Tongue. 
A smoked tongue should be soaked fifteen hours, then 
boiled over a slow fire, just simmering four hours. The 
pot should be covered while boiling. 

Mrs. George A. Stone. 

Wyndham Cutlets. 

Five mutton cutlets from the back rib, one sprig of 
parsley, one carrot, one turnip, one pound of potatoes, 
three gills of stock, one tablespoonful Worcestershire 
sauce, a few drops of caramel, yolks of two eggs. Re- 
move the fat from each cutlet; place in frying pan and 
sprinkle over them a little pepper and salt. Add the 
parsley, carrot and turnip, cut in small pieces — save 
a, few round pieces of each for garnishing the dish. 
Over all pour one half the stock. Cook very slowly for 
twenty minutes, turning over once. Boil in clear water, 
the small pieces of carrot and turnip reserved for gar- 
nishing. While the cutlets are cooking boil the pound 
of potatoes and strain through a wiro sieve. .Place po- 
tatoes in sauce pan, add yolks of eggs, and stir for a 
few moments to firm the mixture. Flour the board and 
spread on a lit'le of the potato, then place a cutlet in it, 
roll it over in the potato and place on a slightly floured 
baking tin. Brush the cutlet with a little egg or milk, 
and brown in oven. Garnish with the small round 
pieces of carrot and turnip. Strain the sauce. 

Mrs. E. McChesxet. 

Sauce for Wyndham Cutlets. 

Take the remainder of the stock, add Worcestershire 
sauce, a little pspper and salt, stir over the fire until it boils, 
add six drops of caramel and pour round the cutlet. 



20 chop-sticks. 

Baked Tripe. 

Spread butter and a thick layer of bread crumbs on 
one side of a piece of tripe, season with pepper and salt. 
Eoll it up the bread etc., inside. Tie it around tight 
with a cord. Bake one hour. Serve with onion sauce. 
Cut across the roll to serve. 



M. 



Tripe Fricasseed. 



Cut one pound of tripe up in two inch squares, then 
put it into a stewing pan with a pint of hot water, slice 
in one lemon, a tablesijoonf ul of butter, (one blade of mace 
if you like), let it stew half an hour, pepper and salt to 
taste. Boil one egg hard, pour out the tripe, when done 
Ornament the dish with slices of egg. 

M. 
Haricot of Mutton. 

Four or five mutton cutlets from the back lib, one- 
half ounce of flour, one-half pint of second stock, one 
tables} )Oonful of Worcestershire sauce, pepper and salt, 
one tablespoonful of mushi'oon catsup, one carrot, one 
turnip, one-half -ounce of butter. Cut the fat from the 
cutlets, melt the butter, and brown the cutlets on both 
sides. Place the Hour in 1 )owl, make a very smooth paste 
with a little cold water or stock, add pepper, salt, Wor- 
cestershire sauce and catsup, and the remainder of the 
stock; after the cutlets have browned place them in a 
deep sauce pan; pour over them the mixture in the bowl 
then place over the fire and stir until it boils; when this 
boils add th^ carrot and turnip, cut in small pieces. 
Simmer slowly three-fourths of an hour. Garnish with 
parsley. 

Mrs, E, M< Chesney. 
Boston Sandwich. 
Three and three-fourths pounds of veal or beef, thick slice 



E2SHSESHSHSZEZ5Z5H5SEZ5HSZSZEESZ5E5SEBSaSSZ£iZESE5E5H^H!i® 

CHOP-STICKS. 21 

of salt pork choppe 1 raw, six cra?kers rolled fine, two eggs, 
a piece of butler the size of an egg, one nutmeg, one tab- 
lespoonful of salt and one of pepper. When thoroughly 
mixed with tlie hands, make into a loaf; put bread 
crumbs and small pieces of butter over the top; put into 
a dripi)ing pan and bake two .hours, basting often, slice 
cold. Will keep a week or two in a cool place. 

jVFrs. Bishop. 

Mock Duck. 
Have a round beef steak cut an inch thick, lay on the 
meat board, remove the bone, sew up the open places, 
make a dressing of bread crumbs, well seasoned with 
pepper and salt and two small chopped onions. Put the 
dressing in the middle of the steak, roll U}) and sew to- 
gether, put into a kettle on the top of the stove with 
just enough water to keep it from burning, adding more 
as it boils away. Cook slowly three hours, turning of- 
ten that it may brown nicely on all sides. Remove the 
steak to the ])latter, taking out the threads; thicken the 
gravy slightly with flour and ])our part over the meat, 
serving the rest in a gravy dish. 

Mrs. L. W. B 

Chicken Croquettes. 
One-half boiled cliicken, one ounce of butter, one- 
ounce of flour, one gill of water, one-half gill of cream, 
pepper and salt, one egg, five tablespoonfuls of bread 
crumbs, a little grated nutmeg. Chop the chicken fine, 
melt the butter, when melted stir in one ounce of flour, 
add by degrees the water, then the cream. Stir until it 
boils. Boil two minutes, add salt, pepper and nut- 
meg, stir in the chopped chicken, mix well and, place on 
a plate to become cold. Flour tlie board, divide the 
mixture into six or seven pieces; roll the croquettes into 
proper sha]:)e; beat well one egg, roll them in the egg, 
then roll in bread crumbs. Fry two minutes in very hot 

Sia5H5cl5HSaEHSE5H5H5iL5ESEESSE5E5SSESH5E5ESEEZSE5ESH5ESESI3 



iISZ5H5Z5aua252S5H5H5H5HffaSiH5HSHSHaa32iraSEl5ZSTiSiaES2SHSHa 

22 CHOP'STICKS. 

tat. Place on paper for a moment. Garnish with pars- 
ley. 

Mrs. E. McCiiKSNEY. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

Take one chicken and four sweet breads cooked and 
minced fine, one pint cream and one-half pound butter, 
red pepper and salt to taste. Take also one large hand- 
ful of breadcrumbs and a little chopped onion. Heat 
the cream, butter, and seasoning, then stir in the meat 
and breadcrumbs, and let all come to a boil. Set aside in 
a cool place until it becomes stiff, then mould in cone- 
shape, roll in egg and cracker and drop in boiling lard. 

Mrs. W. J. Stevensox. 

Sweet-bread Croquettes. 

Two pairs of sweet breads boiled in salted water about 
twenty minutes, or until they are thoroughly done; throw 
them into cold water for a few moments, remove the 
skin and little pipes. Cut them into dice; cut also into 
dice half a box of mushroons; make a roux by putting- 
one and one-half ounces of butter into a saucepan and 
when it bubbles, sprinkle in two ounces of flour. Stir 
and cook well, then pour in a gill of cream or stock; add 
the sweet breads and mushroons and stir until heated 
through. Take from the fire, add the beaten yolks of 
two eggs. When cool form into croquettes. KoU them 
first in cracker crumbs, then in egg, then in cracker 
cruml)S again. Fry them in boiling lai'd. If the cro- 
quettes are not moist enough add cream and egg to taste. 

Mi:s. C. D. Kellum. 

Sweet-breads and Peas. 

Boil the sweet-breads in water with a little salt fifteen 
minutes. Plunge in ice water. Make a white gravy 
with half cup of milk, butter and salt, thicken with one 



CHOP-STICKS. 23 

teaspoonf ul of flour. Cook the sweet breads in this a few 
minutes. Serve on a platter with green peas around the 
outside edge. Canned French peas may be used. 

Mrs. R. S. N. 

Cold Beef Rissoles. 
One-quarter of a pound of cold beef, dessertspoonful 
of chopped parsley; salt and pepper, a very little grated 
nutmeg, six ounces of flour, two ounces of but- 
ter, one-half teaspoonful Cleveland's Superior Bak- 
ing Powder, one-half gill of cold water, one egg, • 
three tablespoonfuls bread crumbs. Chop the parsley 
and the coll meat, add pepper, salt and nutmeg. 
Place the flour in a bowl, add the butter, little salt, bak- 
ing powder and water, mix together, then knead firmly, 
roll out and cut in rounds. Beat the c gg, brush the 
edges of the rounds, place a little of the prepared meat 
in each, and press the edges firmly together, then 
thoi'oughly cover them with the eg:^. Roll in bread 
crumbs and fry in very hot fat until a golden brown. 

MkS. E. McClIIiSNEY. 

Stewed Tongue. 

Parboil a fresh tongue. Peel it and cut it open leng-th- 

wise. Stew it in a tumbler of hot water with a little 

wine in it, cloves, mace, salt, a little red pepper, a piece 

of butter the size of an egg. The wme may be omitted 

if preferred. Serve hot. 

M. 

Veal Loaf. 

Three ])ounds of veal, two thick slices of salt-pork 
chopped fine, two eggs well heated, two Boston crackers, 
rolled fine, two teaspoonful s black pepper, one of salt; 
mix all well, make in a loaf, dredge with flour, baste 
often and bake from two to three hours. Eat cold, sliced 
thin. 

Mks. J. J. G T. 



24 chop^sticks. 

Minced Turkey or Chicken, Creamed. 

Mince very fine^ turkey or chicken, season with salt 
and pepper to your taste. The shghtest particle of on- 
ion possible, mixed in thoroughly. In your saucepan 
put about 0113 cup of milk (half cream if convenient,) 
mix in a cup a tablespoonful of sifted flour with a little 
cold milk, also one-fourth teaspoonful of celery, salt, 
pour this into your saucepan as soon as the milk boils, 
stir quickly, let it boil up twice, then put in your minced 
turkey; stirring all the time. Serve hot as soon as it 
boils up once. 

P. 

Chaud Froid of Chicken. 

One young chicken boiled, two ounces of butter, one 
and one-half ounces of flour, one-half pint of milk, one 
gill cream, a little pepper and salt. Eemove the two fil- 
lets from the breast and remove the skin, joint the legs 
and remove the skin and the meat from the bone, keep- 
ing it as whole as possible, melt the butter; when 
melted stir in the flour, mix well together, add the milk,, 
stirring all the time, add the cream, stir until it boils, 
cook slowly two minutes, pepper and salt. Dip the pieces 
of chicken into the sauce, covering them thoroughly; 
lay them in a wire sieve and let them become cold. 
Arrange the pieces of chicken on a flat dish, chop aspic 
jelly roughly, aiTange it around the dish; what remains 
chop very fine and heap on the fowl, sprinkle over with 
parsley. 

Mrs. E. MoCiiesney. 

Beef Steak a la Mode. 

Take two or three sli(;es of beef steak, cut from the 
round. Grate thickly on each slice, cnimbs ot stale bread. 



CHOP-STICKS. 25 

chop a very small onion, put on pepper, salt, cloves and 
a little butter. Roll each slice up and skewer it, cover it 
with hot water in the saucepan, adding more crumbs on 
the outside of the rolls of steak. Let it simmer one 
hour, add a little wine, just before serving. Garnish 
with shced lemon. 

M. 

Pressed Chicken. 

Boil two chickens until dropping to pieces, pick meat 
off bones; takiug out all skin, season with salt and pep- 
per, add the hquid left in the kettle, mix thoroughly, 
put in deep tin or mould and set away to cool, cut in 
shces for table. 

Mrs. J. II. Knight. 

Force Meat Balls. 

Mix with a pound of veal chopped fine, one egg, a 
little butter or raw pork chopped fine. Season with salt 
and pepper or currie powder. Make up in small balls, 
fry brown. 

M. 

Drop Egg Dumplings. 

Beat one egg light, stir into it one pint of milk, 
thoroughly mix a piece of butter, the size of half an egg, 
into one-half pint of flour, now stir into the milk and 
egg; drop with a spoon into pot-pie. Don't hft the cover 
until done. 

P. 

Veal Oysters. 

Cut the veal into small squares, dip in butter and fry 
in hot lard until very brown. Sei-ve hot, season 
with a pinch of cayenne pepper, and salt. These fried 
in bread crumbs and egg alternately are very nice. 

Miss Annie Force. 



20 chup-sticks. 

Roast Beef with Yorkshire Pudding. 

Set a piece of beef to roast upon a grating, or several 
sticks laid across a dripping pan. Three quarters of an 
hour before it is done, mix the pudding and pour into 
the pan. Continue to roast the beef; the dripping now 
falhng upon the batter below. When both are done cut 
the pudding into squares and lay around the beef when 
dished. If there is much fat in the dripping pan before 
the pudding is ready to be put in, drain off, leaving just 
enough to prevent the batter from sticking. 

Yorkshire Pudding, 

One pint of milk, four eggs, whites and yolks, beaten 
separately, two cups of flour, one teaspoonful of salt. 
Be careful in mixing not to get the batter too stiff. 

MuH. E.J. Daniels, 

Veal Olives, 

One and one-half pounds veal, three crackers, one- 
half tablespoonful butter, one-half teaspaonful savory, 
one fourth teaspoonful sage, a teaspoonful salt, a very 
little peppar and one-eight'i of a cup full of water. 
Trim off the edges and fat of the veal, chop the trim- 
mings and fat very fine and add to the above ingredi- 
ents. Cut the veal in strips three inches wide and four 
inches long. Season well with pepper and salt. Mix 
the above ingi-edients very thoroughly and spread on the 
strij)s of veal, roll them up and lis with twine; when all 
are done roll in flour. Fry brown one-quarter pound of 
pork, take it out of the pan and put the olives in, fry brown 
and put in a sauce pan that can be tightly covered. In 
the fat remaining in the pan, put one tablespoonful flour, 
and stir until perfectly smooth and brown; then pour in 
gradually, nearly one and one half pints boiling water. Stir 
for two or three minutes, season to taste with salt and pep- 



CHOP-STICKS, 27 

per and pour over the olives. Cover the saucepan and let sim- 
mer two hours. Take uj) at the end of this time and cut the 
strings with a sharp knife. Place the -olives in a row on 
a dish, and pour the gravy over them. 

[copy-iiWHT.] Miss Pauloa, 

Beef Poll. 
Two pounds of raw beef chopped fine., six tablespoon- 
fuls of cracker dust, three eggs, with the white of one 
reserved until a mould is made of the beef, crackers, eggs, 
pepper, salt, half teaspoonful onion chopped fine. Then 
lub it with the white of egg, to keep the moisture in the 
mould. Bake two hours. This should be made the day 
before. Slice as Beef Tongue. 

Mks. W. J. Stevenson, 



^G A 



Jelly for Meats, 

Put to boil four calf's feet, two onions, one dozen peppeT- 
corns, a tablespoonfiil of salt,, two carrots, and a head of 
celery, in six quarts of water, boil six hours, strain this into 
an earthen pot to coo]. When wanted, take off all the fat, 
put the rest into a preserve kettle, with two lemons cut uj>, 
tlie whites and shells of six egg's; let it boil fifteen or twenty 
minutes. Take it from the fire, set it where it will keep 
hot, turn in it a cup of cold water, let it stand fifteen 
minutes, then strain it through the jelly bag. When it 
lias all run through clear, put wdiat you require in the 
mould, let the rest cool in a dish, to cut small for gar- 
nishing the meat. If the jelly is not a good bright color, 
add a tablespoonful of India Soy. 

SSL5HSE5a5E5E5E5EEE!jS5ESE5ESZ5iIIJS5EEESZ5EEE5E5HSS5H5E5SEIS 



28 chop-sticks. 

Birds in Jelly. 

Have any kind of biids prepared the same as a tur- 
key, stuffed and stewed or roasted. Place the birds in 
a mould tnat will just hold them, breast downwards, with 
the legs down and tied together, prepare the jel'y as 
above, fill the moulds quite full, set it to cool until the 
next day, then turn it on to the dish, breast up. If 
the jelly is clear, this is very handsome for a side 
dish at dinner, or for a supper table, with the col- 
ored jelly cut fine and sprinkled round the dish with a 
little curled parsley. 

Mks. E. a. 

Broiled Quail. 

Split through the back and broil over a hot fire, basting 
frequently with butter, when done place a bit of butter 
on each piece, and set in oven a few moments to brown. 
Serve on pieces of toast, with currant jelly. Plovers are 
cooked in the same way. Pigeons should be first par- 
boiled and then boiled, 

K. B. 

Quail on Toast. 

Dry pick them, singe them with paper, cut off heads 
and legs at first joint, draw, split down the back, soak in 
salt and water for five or ten minutes, drain and dry 
with a cloth, lard them with bacon or butter, then rub 
salt over them, place on broiler and turn often, dipping 
two or three times into melted butter, broil about twenty 
minutes. Have ready as many slices of buttered toast 
as there are birds, and serve a bird breast upwards, on 
each slice. 

C. B. 



chop-sticks. 29 

Roast Haunch of Venison. 

Wash in warm water and dry well with a c'oth, butter 
a sheet of white paper and put over the fat, lay in a deep 
baking dish with a very little boiling water, cover with a 
■close fitting cover or with a coarse paste, one-half inch thick. 
If the latter is used, a thickness or two of coarse paper 
should be laid over the paste. Cook in a moderately hot 
oven for from three to four hours, according to the size of 
the haunch, and about twenty minutes before it is done 
quicken the fire, remove the paste and paper or dish- 
cover, dredge the joint with flour, and baste well with 
butter until it is nicely frothed and of a delicate brown 
color. Garnish the knuckle-bone with a frill of white 
paper and serve with a gravy made from its own drip- 
pings, having first removed the fat. Have the dishes on 
which the venison is served and the plates very hot. Al- 
ways serve with currant jelly. 

Partridges. 

Do not stuff them as the stuffing absorbs the flavor 
of the bird, a piece of pork two inches square and three 
inches long must be put in the body of tlie bird and then 
roasted. 

Sauce for above. 

Take a cup of rice, steep it in a pint of milk, with an 
onion and a dozen pepper corns. Let this stand on the 
fire, until the rice is perfectly tender, then take out the 
pepper corns and rub the rice and onion through a sieve 
into a sauce pan. If too thick add a little cream, let it 
simmer once, then add salt to taste. Serve hot with bird. 

P. 



30 CHOP-STICKS. 

EoAST Duck. 

Ducks are dressed and stuffed in the usual manner. 
Young ducks shoukl roast from twenty five to thirty 
minutes, full grown for an hour or more with fre- 
quent basting. Some prefer them underdone, served 
very hot, but thorough cooking will prove more generally 
palatable. Serve with currant jelly, apple sauce and 
green j^eas. If old par-boil before roasting. Place the 
remains of a cold roast duck in a stew pan w^'th a pint 
of gi'avy and a little sage, cover closely and let it sim- 
mer for half an hour, add a pint of boiled green peas, 
stew a few minutes, remove to a dish, and pour over it 

the gravy and peas. 

B. E. 

Rabbits. 

Rabbits which are in the best condition in mid winter, 
may be fricassed like chicken in white or brown sauce. 
To make a pie, first stew until tendei', and make like 
chicken-pie. To roast, stuff with a dressing made of 
bread ciaim^s, chopped salt pork, thyme, onion, and 
pepper and salt, stew up, iTib over with a little butter, 
or pin on it a few slices of salt pork, add a little water 
in the pan, and baste often. Serve with mashed pota- 
toes and currant ielly. 

B. E: 



;MG worn DISHKB. 



An Edging for Hashes. 

Boil two teacupfuls of rice half an hour, season it with 
a little butter and salt; form the rice around the dish, 

■5as:asH5ra5Ha5assHSHSi55as"a5asiE^SH5a5H5HSHSHsns25a52Si5Ha 



CHOP-STICKS- - 31 

about three or four inches high, rub it over with the yolk 
of an egg and set it in the oven to brown; when it is done, 
turn the hash mto the middle of the dish. This makes a 
handsome finish to a dish. 

A Crust for a Meat Pie, 

nice prepared in the above way, spread over a pie made 
of cold meat, for the crust, an inch thick and browned, 
is nice. 

Potato Crust, or Edging. 

Boil one dozen good potatoes, and mash them well, add 
a piece of butter, a little salt and half a cup of cream, or 
milk; stir it well with a large spoon and form it the same 
as the rice, it is even better for a crust than rice. 

Potato Edging for Tongue, 

Prei)are the potatoes as above; put it around the dish 
in lumps with a large spoon, and stick into each lump a 
sprig of parsley. 

Parsley, Lemon, Eggs. 

Curled parsley, lemon cut in slices, eggs boiled hard, 
cut in various forms, , 

A Pretty Breakfast Dish. 

May be made of croquettes of fish, lobster, fowl, or meat 
in the shape of hen's eggs, heaped u^wn a dish and sur- 
rounded by very thin strips of fried potato, armnged to 
look as much as possible hke stmw. If sauce is poured 
over the croquettes, be careful not to let it deluge the 
potato that forms the nest. 



EE5Z5E5Z5Z5E5Z5Z5ESE£ri5Z5Z5Z5Z5Z5E5£5H5Z5Z5Z5Z5E5E5£525B 

32 CHOP^STICKS. 



rBGETABLB 



Forced Tomatoes. 

Open the top, and extract the seeds from half a dozen 
tomatoes; fill up the middle with sausage meat; put them 
into a stew-pan, with enough beef stock to cover them. 
8eason to your taste, a little cayenne pepper improves the 
flavor. Stew gently for a quarter of an hour. If you 
like, can add ( after taking from the fire), a teaspoonf ul 
of lemon juice. Serve hot, 

P. 
Corn Fritters. 

Twelve ears of grated corn, one egg beaten into three 
tablespoonfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, and one 
teaspoonful of black pepper. Take one tablespoonful 
and drop in boiling lard. 

M, 
Fried Squash, 

Slice crooked necked squash as you would cucumbers, 
dip them in dry flour, fry them in butter until they are 
nicely browned. They taste like fried oysters. Banannas 
are nice cooked the same way. 

G. 
Corn Oysters. 
One dozen ears corn grated, one tablespoonful melted 
butter, one tablespoonful sweet milk, one-half teacupful 
flour, two eggs, little salt. Fry. 

Mrs. W. J, G. 



chop-sticks. 33 

Stuffed Baked Tomatoes, 

Choose large smooth tomatoes, and cut the blossom end 
off each. Lay it aside for further use. Scoop out the in- 
side, and chop fine with a little grated bread, salt, pepper 
and butter, mix well, and stuff the hollowed tomatoes. 
Fit the top on neatly; place in circular rows in a deep dish 
and bake three quarters of an hour to a light brown. 

M. H. 
Egg Plant. 

Slice thin; sprinkle each slice with salt, pack together 
again and let remain one hour; drain the Water off, dip in 
^gg, then in rolled cracker and fry in hot butter or lard. 

Mrs, J, C. Faulknek, 

Fried Potatoes. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes, which are firm, into small cres- 
cent shaped pieces. Pry in hot lard until of a light 
brown color, 

Mrs. Kbllum. 

Corn Oysters, 

Take young green corn and grate. To a pint of this 
add an egg well beaten; a small teacupful of flour, one-half 
cup of butter, a little salt and pepper, and mix well 
together. A tablespoonful of batter will make the size of 
an oyster. Fry in hot lard to a nice brown. 

Potato Croquettes. 

One pound mashed potatoes, one tablespoonful cream, one 
ounce butter, pepper and salt, two eggs, five tablespoon - 
f uls bread crumbs. Place butter and cream in saucepan. 
Let it boiL Stir in the mashed potatoes; stir over the 
fire until mixed and hot, remove from the fire, add yolks 
of eggs, salt, pepper, stir over the fire a moment. 



S4 CHOPrSTICKS, 

Flour the board, form into croquettes. Beat the white© 
of the eggs. Roll the croquettes in eigg, then in bread 
«rumbSj, fry in very hot fat two minutes. 

Mrs. E. McChesisjet, 



-^BALADS^ 



Chicken Salad. 

One pint of chopped chicken^ or turkey^ (roasf is prefer- 
able, white meat ), not quite as much sliced celery, as 
chicken. Season with salt and white pepper, mix Tery 
thoroughly. 

Dkessi^tg for Salah. 

Yolks of two eggs^ one third of a teaspoonful of dry* 
English mustard, one-half a cup of olive oil, one tea- 
spoonful of best cider vinegar, one tablespoonful of rich 
cream. Eub the mustard into the yolks of the eggs, drop 
the oil in slowly, stining constantly with a silver fork 
Until thick enough to take Up on the fork, then add the 
vinegar; when this is thoroughly mixed, add the cream. 
Then mix with minced chicken and celery. 

U. E. H. 



chop-sticks. 35 

Chicken Salad. 

Boil oue large chicken, cut in large pieces and mix with 
celery, also cut in large j)ieces, a little more celery 
than chicken. 

Dressing for Salad, 

Three eggs, one-quarter of a lai^e bottle 'of salad oil, 
one teaspoonful dry mustard, a little cayenne pepper, a 
little sugar and salt, juice of two lemons. Beat well the 
yolks of the eggs, add the oil, one drop at a time, add the 
mustard, pepper, sugar and salt, juice of the lemons. 
Beat the whites of the eggs and add. 

N. 

Cabbage Salad. 

One-half head of cabbage, one-half cup of vinegar, one 
tablespoonful of sugar, a little pepper and salt, three 
tablespoonfuls sweet cream. Chop the cabbage, and add 
the scalded vinegar, add sugar, pepper and salt, stir 
altogether in the dish, add the cream, stir again, set in a 
cold placa 

Mrs. Daboll, 

Oyster Salad. 

One tabtespoonful of butter, yolks of two egg-s, four 
tablespoonfuls each, of oil and vinegar, a little mustard, 
J)arsley chopped fine. Stir the buttei- to a cream, add the 
yolks of the eggs well beaten, add oil and vinegar altei-- 
irately and beat well, add mustard and parsley. Steam 
the oysters, when cold put a layer of oysters and the 
dressing alternately, until the dish is full, garnisli with 
parsley. 

Mrs. Wm. H. Hollistkr, Jr. 



s6 chop;sticks. 

Dressing for Cabbage. 

One ctip of cream, add vinegar and sugar to taste; shave 
the cabbage fine, season with salt and pepper. Pour the 
dressing over it. 

Mrs. Beach. 

Cabbage Salab, 

One head of cabbage, one tablespoonful of flotir, tv^a 
fcablespoonfuls of butter^ one egg.^ one cup of vinegar^ 
small quantity of mixed mustard, pepper and salt. Rub 
well together flour, butter and mustard,, stir over the fire 
until melted together, when cool, add eggs well beaten,. 
mix all well together with the vinegar. Sprinkle salt 
over the cabbage and stir the mixture on by degrees. 
Serve cold. 

MisS' Emma M, Morand. 

Salmon Salad. 

Yolks of six eggs, one tablespoonful mustard, piece of 
butter si^e of an egg, salt and vinegar, very little cayenne 
pepper. Equal quantity of salmon and cabbage. 

Mrs. J. H. Knight. 

Salad Dressing. 

Two eggs, one teaspoonf ul of pepper, one of stigar, twci 
of made mustard, and one of salt, six tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, same of vinegar; put in a kettle of hot 
water and cook until creamy. 

Mrs. Wm. G. S' K. 



CHOP-STICKS. 37 






Lemon Pie. 

Three-quarters of a cup sugar, three eggs, one lemon 
chopped fine, milk to fill pie, a little salt, one tablespoon- 
ful of flour; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth 
with one tablespoonful of sugar for the top. 

Mks. a. Ckampton. 

Puff Paste. 

One pound of flour, one- quarter pound of lard rubbed 
.into flour; the white of an egg beaten up, and put into 
the water, to mix in the flour and lard (about one-half a 
tumbler of water). Roll one-half pound of butter in a 
handful of flour. Roll out your paste, spread the butter 
and flour on the paste and roll it two or three times. 
Then cover your dishes. 

P. 

Delicate Pie. 

Whites of two eggs, four spoonfuls of cream, large 
spoonful of flour, one cup of white sugar, one cup of cold 
water, flavor with lemon. Under crust only. 

Miss E. D. e. 



38 chop-sticks. 

Orange Pie. 

The grated rind and juice of one orange^ the yolks of 
three eggSy two-thirds cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of 
flour stirred into the sugar, then add one-half a cup of 
water. Bake the pie, then spread over it the frosting 
made of the whites of the eggs and powdered sugar. 
Return to the oven and brown. 

P. 

Mince Pie. 

Four pounds of meat; twice the quantity of apples 
after meat is chopped, one pound of butter, two and 
one-half pounds of raisins, one i>ound of currants, one- 
half pound of citron, two pounds of sugar, one-half pint 
of molasses, two lemons chopped, spices to taste. Pint 
of brandy, same of sherry. 

Mrs. W. G. J, 

Lemon Pie 

Grated rind and juice of one good sized lemon, one- 
half cup of sugar one large coffee cup of hot water, piece 
of butter the size of a walnut, yolks of two eggs; pour 
this over two thin slices of baker's bread, bake without 
Upper crust, when done and a little cool, make a frosting 
of the whites of two eggs beaten to a froth and five table- 
spoonfuls of granulated sugar, pour over the pie and set 
in the oven until it is a light brown, 

Mrs. J. D. Wyman. 

Puff Paste. 

One quarter of pound of flour weighed after it is sifted, 
one -quarter pound of butter, yolk of one egg, six drops 



CHOP-STICKS. 39 

fresh lemon juice, one-half gill of cold water. Let the 
butter lie a short time on ice, put in a towel and press out 
all the water and milk, place in a bowl the flour, mix in 
a cup the yolk of egg, lemon juice and cold water, Make 
this into dough with the water, egg and lemon, knead 
firmly together and roll out very thin; take the butter 
from the towel, place in the centre of the paste, roll the 
paste over it, roll as thinly as possible and set aside to 
cool, fold in three layers. Flour the board, roll out and 
fold in three layers, roll again, place away to cool, turn it 
every time you roll. Roll twice again, this ought to have 
fifteen minutes tetween the rollings, roll twice again. Cut 
in small rounds and bake fifteen minutes in a quick oven. 

Mrs. E. McChesney. 



Huckleberry Pie. 

One quart of berries, one large cup sugar. Wash and 
pick over the berries. Put half the berries in the pie, then 
half the sugar, then the remainder of berries and sugar, 
add a little cold water, sprinkle the top with flour, cover 
and bake before putting on the top crust, wet the edge of 
the pie with cold water and press upper crust down hard 
to prevent boiling out. 

Mrs. J. J. G y. 



Peach Pie. 

Make peach pie in the same way adding bits of butter 

over the top and sprmkling with flour. Have the peaches 

sliced thin. 

Mrs. J. J. G y. 



lEssHSHSHSHasHSSBFasHSHrarasHSHSHffasaFHSHsasaFEsasasasaa 



EEHESaSaSSESEHSaSESZSaSEHHSaSSSHSESESiiSSSESZSHSHSiHHSEHE 

■±0 chop-sticks. 

Lemon Custard Pie. 

The juice and grated rind of one lemon, one pint of 
water, one cup of sugar, yolks of two eggs, piece of butter 
the size of an egg, two tablespoonfuls corn starch. Beat al- 
together, let the water come to a boil stir in the mixture, 
add a little salt. Bake crust first, then fill with the lemon 
custard. Spread on whites, previously beaten to a stiff 
froth with two tablespoonfuls of sugar and brown in a 
quick oven. 

Mks. L. II. Wait. 

Lemon Pie. 

One lemon, four eggs, two tablespoonfuls of flour, one- 
half teacup of sugar. Milk sufficient to fill the dish. Beat 
together the yolks of the eggs, the sugar and the flour, 
grate the lind of one lemon, and add the juice just before 
putting in the oven. When the pie is baked, beat the 
whites of the eggs with four tablespoonfuls of sugar and 
spread upon the top. Set in the oven and brow^n. 

Emma M. Morand. 

Squash Pie, 

Two large cups of strained squash, one of rich milk, 
one egg, one teaspoonful of flour rubbed smooth in a little 
cold milk, a pinch of salt, sugar and nutmeg to taste. 

Mrs. J. J. G y. 

Lemon Pie. 

One cup of sugar, one cup water, one raw potato grated, 
juice and grated rind of one lemon, pastry top and bottom. 
This will make one pie. 

Mrs, P. W. Converse, 



chop-sticks, 41 

Squash Pie, 

One cup stewed squash, one cup of sugar, one pint of 
milk, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls melted butter, a little 
salt, ginger and cinnamon, 

Mks. J. 11. Knkjht. 

Cream Pie. 

One pint sweet cream, whites of three eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth, three tablespoonfuls of white sugar, flavor with 
vanilla. Take from the oven as soon as crust is done. 

Mrs. J\. S. Norton^ 



Lemon Pie, 

Make a rich pastry; line the bottom of the pie plate and 
bake it. For the pie take one and one-half cups of sugar, and 
the same quantity of water, put it on the stove, while heat- 
ing, in another dish, beat together the yolks of two eggs, 
the grated rind and the juice of three lemons. One table- 
spoonful of corn starch, (moistened smoothly in a little 
cold water), a piece of butter the size of an English wal- 
nut; put this into the saucepan of sugar and water, and 
allow to cook until quite thick; when cool pour into the 
pie crust previously baked. Now whip the whites of 
two eggs, add one tablespoonf ul of pulverized sugar, and 
one-half a teaspoonful of lemon juice, pour this over the 
pie and place in the oven to brown. 

Mrs. F. L. Vixcent. 



liSBsisHSHsaasassisiffSisasBs^s^SHsaffEJESHsasHsrans^sa^ 



42 CHOP,-STICKS. 



-m 



Venoise Pudding. 

Five ounces of bread crumbs, very stale, four ounces of 
pulverized sugar, three ounces seeded raisins, two ounces 
citron, one teaspoonful vanilla^ one -half pint of milky 
yolks of four eggs, one w^ine glass of sherr}'' wine, or the 
grated peel of a lemon; cut the crumbs in small square 
pieces, add three ounces of sugar, the raisins and citron, 
brown the remaining ounce of sugar; as soon as it becomes 
brown add the milk, pouring it in slowly, stir until brown. 
Separate whites from yolks of eggs, mix the yolks with 
the browned sugar and milk, and pour over tlie crumbs, 
add the vanilla; put this in a buttered mould, steam one 
hour and twenty minutes, let the w^ater cover half the 
mould. The mould should be covered by twisting a white 
paper over the top- 

Mrs. E. McChe8ney 

Lemon Pudding. 

Boil one pint of milk, add two heaping teaspoonfuls 
corn starch dissolved in a little of the milk, sugar to taste, 
a little salt. Stir in the beaten yolk of one egg. Pour 
this in a pudding dish to get cold; when cold beat the 
white of the egg to a stiff froth, add sugar as for frosting; 

SaSESHSHSESaSESHSHSHSESaSESESESHSESaEasaSHSHHaSHSMHSESiJ 



CHOP-STICKS. 43 

to this add the juice of one lemon, pour over tho pudding 
and brown in the oven. To be eaten cold. 

Mrs. C. I). Kellum. 

Orange Pudding, 

One quart of milk, tliree eggs, one tablespoonf ul of corn 
starch, five oranges, one cup of sugar; slice the oranges 
and place in a deep dish with sugar. Make a custard of 
the milk, yolks of the eggs and coi-n starch, when it boils, 
throw over the oranges, beat the whites to a stiff froth 
with half a cup of pulverized sugar, spread over the top 
and brown, 

Mrs, a. Crampton. 

Queen Pudding. 

One4ialf pint of bread crumbs soaked twenty minutes 
in one pint of scalding milk, then add one pint more milk, 
yolks of four eggs, juice and grated rind of one lemon, 
sweeten to taste, a little salt. When baked and cold, 
spread over it a layer of jelly and whites of four eggs, 
beaten to a froth, and bake brown. 

Mrs, C. J. Saxe. 

Suet Pudding. 

One cup suet chopped fine, one cup of molasses, two 
eggs, one cup of milk, one cup of raisins, one cup currants, 
three and one-half cups of flour, one teasjioonful cinna- 
mon, one teaspoonful cloves, one teaspoonful nutmeg, 
one even teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the milk. Steam 
three hours. Serve with boiled sauce, this makes quite a 
large pudding. 

Mrs. J. M. Avery. 



44 chop-sticks. 

Amber Pudding, 

Two pounds of apples, foui- ounces of sugar, one gill 
cold water, juice of one-half lemon, four eggs, six ounces 
flour, three ounces butter, one-half teaspoonful Cleve- 
land's Superior Baking Powder. Slice the apples, place 
in saucepan lemon juice, three ounces sugar, one- half 
gill cold w^ater, let come to a boiling pointy then add the 
apples, cook slowly until soft. Place flour in bowl, add 
the butter, mix well, add baking-powder and one-half gill 
cold water, knead lightly together. KoU out one-third of 
an inch in thickness, cut into little rounds, roll the re- 
mainder of the crust and cut in narrow strips. Wet the 
edges of a small vegetable dish, line with the strips of the 
paste, trim edge and brush with cold water, double the 
rounds, draw in the corners, and place around the edge of 
the dish . Eemo ve the apples from saucepan , pass throu gh 
wire sieve, droj) into them yolks of four eggs, stir well 
together and fill the dish; place in a quick oven and cook 
fifteen minutes, until the paste is a light brown. Add to 
whites of eggs a small pinch of salt, beat very stiff, sprinkle 
over the remaining ounce of sugar, place the whites on. 
the apple as high as possible, brown m oven two minutes, 

Mrs, E. McCht;s]Sey. 



Plum Pudding. 

One-half pound suet, one cup of brown sugar, one cup of 
molasseSi three eggs one pint milk^one teaspoonful of mace^ 
cinnamon, allspice, cloves, nutmeg, one teaspoonful of 
soda, raisins and currants rolled in fiour. Flour sufficient 
to make it rather stiff. Boil briskly four or five hours. 

SEsasasasESHSiiEHsasHSESEsasHSHSHSESHEasasHsasasasHHZEESi® 



@FE5H5HEHUS25HSHa5B5ZFH5iSa5H5H5HSa5iFESS5BSZ5SSlSBSHSH!l 

chop-sticks. ^5 

Snow Pudding. 

Three tablespoonfuls of corn starch wet in a little cold 
water, one and one-half tablespoonfuls of sugar, a Httle 
salt, one pint of boiling water. Cook this until it thick- 
ens, stirring all the tune, set on back of the stove while 
you beat the whites of three eggs very light, then stir well 
into the corn starch. Put into moulds and set in a cool 
place. For the cream, one pint of milk, yolks of three eggs, 
sweeten and flavor to taste; the pudding should cooked 

in a farina kettle. 

Mus,, W. G. Johnson. 

Graham Pudding. 

One cup of sour milk, one cup of molasses, one cup of 
raisins chopped, two teaspoonfuls of soda, two cups of 
graham flour, a little salt. Stir well and steam one and 
one-half hours. Eat whfle hot with sauce, or cream. 

Sauce. 

One cup of hot water, one-half cup of butter, one cup 

of sugar, two tablespoonfuls corn starch dissolved in a 

little cold water, boil, then flavor. 

Mrs. Mary E. Ingalls, 



Sponge Pudding. 

One pint of sweet milk, one-half a cup of sugar, one- 
half cup of butter, one-half cup of flour, flve eggs; wet the 
flour with imrt of the milk, then cook it in all the milk ten 
minutes, add the butter and sugar while hot, when cool, 
add the yolks well beaten, then add the beaten whites and 



i6 CHOP-STICKS. 

stir thoroughly, bake in a two-quart basin, set in a pan 
of hot water half an hour, serve with butter and sugar 

Miss Clara Morey, 

Bread Pudding. 

Spread very thin pieces of bread with butter and lay 
in the bottom of your pudding dish, make a boiled custard 
of yolks of three eggs, sweeten and flavor to taste, a little 
salt; pour over bread; beat the whites of eggs with a little 
sugar, spread over top, set in oven to brown. Tart fruit 
is very nice laid between bread. 

Mrs. W. G. J. 



Favorite Pudding. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of milk, one egg, two cups of 
flour, two teaspoonfuls of Cleveland's Superior Baking 
Powder, flavor with nutmeg; put any kind of fresh fruit 
or preserves in the bottom of a pudding dish an inch or 
more deep, then pour the mixture on top and bake. 
Turn from the dish and serve with fruit on top. Serve 
with sauce 

Mrs. M. W. Morey. 

Snow Pudding. 

One-half a box of Nelson's Gelatine dissolved in one 
cup of boiling water, then add one pint water, juice of two 
lemons, one-half cup powdered sugar, cool and strain, add 
the whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth, turn into 
moulds and set away to cool. Take the yolks, add to a quart 
of milk for custard, flavor with vanilla. 

Mrs. Joseph H. Knight. 

iiSHSssHs^sHSTHSHSiasasasBSBSHEESHszsiSEsasHsasrasasiESZSHnii 



chop-sticks. 47 

Peach Pudding. 

Five eggs beaten separately, keep out part of the whites, 
four ounces of stale bread grated, one half a pound of 
sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, thirteen peaches 
skinned and sliced. Mix altogether, put it in a dish and 
|>ut the whites of the eggs you left out, on the top of the 
pudding; bake one-half an hour if the oven is a good heat, 

M 

Indian Pudding with Cream. 

Three pints of milk, three large tablespconfuls of Indian 
meal, five eggs, one and one-half tablespoonfuls butter, 
six tablespoonfuls sugar, one teaspoonful of salt; boil the 
milk stirring all the while you are adding the meal, boil 
ten minutes, beat together the eggs, sugar, salt and a 
teaspoonful of ginger, stir the butter into the meal and 
milk, pour slowly on the egg mixture, bake one hour, eat 
^vith cream and sugar. 

Suet Pudding. 

One cup of suet, one cup of raisins, one cup of molasses, 
one cup of milk, four cups of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, 
a little salt, boil one hour, spice to taste. 

Mks. W. H. Deai.. 

Sponge Pudding. 

Six eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, six 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, four heaping tablespoonfuls of 
corn starch, three pints of milk, flavor with vanilla. 
Boil the milk, dissolve the corn starch in a little cold water 
or milk, and stir into the boiling milk, add the yolks and 
sugar, then the whites. Set the pudding dish into a pan 
of boiling water and steam it fifteen minutes in a hot 
oven; to be served hot. 

Mrs. P. W. Converse. 



48 CHOP-STICKS. 



Fig Custard Pltjding. 

One pound of figs, one quart of milk^ yolks of five eggs 
and whites of two, one-half a package of gelatine, soaked 
in a little cold water; one cup of made wine jelly, lukewarm, 
four tablespoonfuls of sugar, flavor to taste; soak the figs 
for a few minutes, in warm water, to make them pliable, 
split them in two, dip each piece in jelly and line the in- 
side of a buttered mould with them. Make a custai'd of the 
milk, yolks and sugar, boil until it begins to thicken well, 
take it off the fire and let it cool; meanwhile beat the 
whites of two eggs to a stiff" froth, melt the soaked gelatine 
in a very little hot water^ by setting the vessel containing 
it in a saucepan of boiling water, stir until clear, turn out 
to cool, when nearly cold whip gi-adually into the whisked 
eggs. The mixture should be white and thick before you 
stir it into the custard, whip all i-apidly for a few minutes 
fill the fig lined mould, set on ice, or in a cold place to 
form, dip the mould in hot water to loosen the pudding 
and turn out upon a cooled dish. 



Tapioca Puddikg. 

Four tablespoonfuls tapioca (soaked oTer night). One 
quart of milk. Place over a kettle of boiling water and 
let it scald, then add yolks of three eggs, beaten well, with 
two-thirds of a cup of sugar ; stir until it thickens. Flavor 
to the taste. Then beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth adding two tablespoonfuls powdered sugar for 
frosting, 

Mks. H, Mott. 



EJ2S2525H5S5HSSSH5E5S5E5E5HSHSHSHSESE5HSEEEEESZ5ES25SEZSB 

CHOP-STICKS- tt;,* 



Lemon Bead Pudding. 

One teaciij) of sugar, one pint of bread crumbs, two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, one quart of milk, four eggs, 
reserving the whites of two, for frosting. Grate lind of 
one lemon into the pudding and bake. Beat the whites 
of two eggs, add lemon juice and sugar for frosting. 

Mrs. Bishop. 

Eclair Pudding. 

Four eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour, one teaspoon- 
f ul vanilla, one teaspoonful Cleveland's Superior Baking 
Powder. When baked spread the top with chocolate 
icing. 

Icing. 

White of one egg, one-half teacup milk, one-half teacup 
sugar, four tablespoonfuls grated chocolate, boil until 
thick and smooth. Just before serving the pudding, split 
and fill with the following: 

CUSTAED. 

One pint of milk, yolks of thi^ee eggs, a little salt, one- 
half a cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 
flavor with vanilla. 

Mrs. L. C. Fisk. 

Fairy Butter. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, the white of 
one egg. Beat together until very light and creamy. 
Flavor to taste. 

Mrs. M. W. Morky. 



H5B5aS25a5Ha5SS5ZSB5HSaE25KHSKHSH5HSMB5H5a5H5H525HSB!i 



50 CHOP-STICKS. 



AND PMi:SKIlVE( 



Wine Jelly. 

One package of gelatine soaked in one large cup of cold 
water, two cups of white wine or Sherry, the juice and 
half the peel of one lemon ; two cups white sugar, one 
l^int of boiling water. Put the soaked gelatine,- lemon 
and sugar together and cover half an hour; then pour 
on boiling watei", stir, and strain. After adding the wine, 
strain again through a flannel bag. Wet a mould and set 
in a cold place until next day. 

Wine Jelly. 

Soak two and one- half ounces of American isinglass for 
three hours in cold water. Take it from the cold water 
and pour on three pints of boiling water, add one and one- 
half pounds of sugar, the juice of two lemons, one quart of 
wine, a few blades of cinnamon, the peel of two lemons 
to flavor it. Beat up the whites of five eggs light; and 
stir in. 

M. 



mSSEHKSHSHasaSSaSHFHSIlS^raSfHS^S^SHSMHSHSaSHS^SHSHSaSH!! 



Ei2SSSHS2!ESZ52SESH5aSHSH5H5ZSia5ESHSHSiiSa5H5ZEHEHEH5H5E5B 

CHOP-STICKS. 51 



Wine Jelly. 

One box Cox's gelatine dissolved in a pint of cold water 
two hours, two pounds of crushed sugar, juice of three 
lemons, one pint of Madeira or Sherry wine. Mix all well 
together; then stir in the gelatine. When well mixed pour 
on three pints of boiling water, stirring all the time. 
When well mixed or thoroughly dissolved, strain through 
a wire sti'ainer into the moulds, one wine glass of brandy. 

Mus. D. COWEE. 



Old Kecipe for Wine Jelly, 

Three ounces of isinglass vsoaked in cold water half an 
hour; drain it, and put it in your jelly kettle, with one 
and one-half pints of boiling water; add two and three- 
fourth pounds of powdered sugar. Beat the whites of 
five eggs to a froth, four lemons, three pints of Sherry 
wine, one stick of cinnamon. Mix the sugar wath the 
whites of the eggs, put it on the fire until it comes to a 
boil. Boil twenty minutes without stirring. Turn in 
glasses. 

M. 



Strawberry Preserves. 

Pound for pound, put a layer of sugar and a layer of 
fruit. Over the fruit, on each layer, sprinkle a very little 
pulverized alum, set by in a stone pot, until the next day, 
then put them in a kettle, and boil gently for twenty 
minutes, throw in a wine glass of brandy, and boil five 

■S25ZSEji252SESZSH5ESZ5uS5Z5ZSS5Z5E!SHSi25Z5a5HSBS^EHSaEHSa3 



52 CHOP-STICKS. 



minutes longer. An even teaspoonful of pulverized alum 

to tw^enty baskets of berries. Extra nice to be served 

w^ith any kind of ice cream or ices. 

M. 



Grape Jelly. 

Wash and pick the grapes from the stems, then let 
them drain in cullender, when dry, boil until the seeds 
are loose, and the pulp is very soft; then strain through 
cullender or sieve. Measure the juice, and allow one 
pound of white sugar to each pint of juice ; set the juice 
(in an enameled kettle) on the stove, and let it boil form 
thirty to forty minutes, then stir in the sugar and stir 
well until all commences to boil. After which, stir no 
more, but let it boil gently for ten minutes, take off, skim 
and let it stand five minutes, then fill your cups or glass- 
es. Sometimes it is well to strain a second time through 
a cloth before the juice is boiled. 

Mrs. Charles Bishop. 



Preserved Raisins. 

To a pound of stoned raisins, take one pound of sugar, 
clarify it, put the raisins to the clarified syrup. Let them 
simmer one hour, add the juice of half a lemon, and the 
peel cut in fine strips. 

P. 



EHSHEHSHSaSHSHSnHHSHEEEESESESHSSSSSSSESZSSHSHHSZSaSHSaS 
chop-sticks. 53 

Apple Jelly for Cake. 

One large or two small sour apples grated, the grated 
rind and juice of one lemon, one egg well beaten, lialf 
cup sugar. Mix altogether and boil about five minutes. 

Mrs. J. D. Wvmax. 



Currant Jelly, 

Pick your currants from the stems, put them in a pre- 
serving kettle, mashing them a little so they will not burn, 
let them boil hard for twenty minutes. Take them from 
the fire and let them cool, enough to squeeze them through 
jelly bag. Now take the juice, allowing one pound 
•of sugar to one pint of juice dissolve the sugar thoroughly. 
Put on the fire again when it comes to a boil, let it boil 
Hxe minutes. Turn in jelly glasses. 



Calebs Foot Jelly. 

To four feet, six quarts of water boiled down to three 
<quarts, half pound powdered sugar, whites of five fresh 
<eggs, juice of four lemons, and one pint of Madeira 
<or Sherrj^ 

P. 



^SH5as2S'asas5S5ffas2S2ranisM?5MHEHSHSHSisr2^^SHSHns?ffaa 



C4 CHOP-STICKS. 



Tomato Jelly. 

Take one dozen lemons, peel and chop the rind, add 
three pints of water, and let it stand over night. Take 
one peck tomatoes, scald and remove skins, then squeeze 
out the juice and seeds, using only the pulp of tomatoes. 
Chop inside of lemons; add five pounds of sugar; stir well 
and let it cook two and one-half or three hours. 

Mrs. W. G. J. 



Aspic Jellv, 

One quart of beef stocky one ounce of gelatine, one 
sprig of parsley, one tablesi3oonful vinegar, whites of 
two eggs, one gill water, salt and pepper. Place the 
stock in sauce pan, add the vinegar. Soak the gelatine ten 
minutes in half gill water. When the stock is hot add 
the gelatine; mix well the whites of eggs with half gill 
of water, add pepper and salt, add this to the warm 
stock. Stir until it boils, then place one side, and let 
it simmer five minutes. Strain through flannel. 

Mrs. E, McChesnev 



iaSESaSESEEESESESHSaSSSEEaSEEaSESESEEaSEEESaSESHSESaSES^ 



CHOP-STICKS. 55 




ELEGANT IN DESIGN & FINISH, 

Suitable FOPi^HoLiD/Y, Wedding, and 
OTHEii^ Presents. 




Lamps, Sconces, Mirrors, Candlesticks, Girandoles, Fire Set>> 
Fenders, Andirons, Helmet and Common Coal Hods, Placques, 
(hispadores, Swing Kettles, Umbrella Stands, B('<lstea<ls, &(•. 

HOUSEKEEPING UTENSILS 

USEFUL AND ORNAMENTAL 
SUITABLE FOR THE 

PARLOR, DIHINS MOM, KIICBEN AND LADNBRY 
Hotels, Restaurants and Families Supplied. 

Constantly Adding all the Latest Novelties. 
Patent Perforated Pie Plate. 

Don't fail to try one of these plates if you want a pie 
that will have a fine dry brown undercrust when done, 
and a crust that will not stick to the plate. Remeraber: 
the plate requires no greasing. It is a little gem of a l»ak- 
or and you will use no other after trying it. 

THE TROY STAMPING WORKS, 

245-247 River St., up-stairs, Troy, 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL 




57 CHOP-STICKS. 



£■^ 



IT STANDS TO REASON THAT IT IS SAFE 
TO PURCHASE 

PIANOS 

OF 

Ho L. eiEETWAOIEj 

As he is a Piano Maker and an experienced tuner. He 
is most to be relied upon. Give him a call before pur- 
chasing elsewhere. 

• H, L, GREYWACK 

Sells the Justly Celebrated 

UNDEMAN & SONS PIANOS, 

THE 'W"01TX)Klie,FTJL 

KKANICH & BACH PIANOS. 



J. 

353 BROADWAY, TROY, N. Y. 



CHOP-STICKS. 56 



ALBANY. 



. M, WHITNEY k CO. 

13, «, 4? 4 49 N. PEjlRL ST. 

THE LARGEST 

DRY GOODS ESTABLISHMEHT 



• THIS SECTION OF THE COUNTB.Y. 



We are now receiving and exposing for sale, our Fall Im- 
portation of Fancy Goods for the Holiday Trade of 1883 and 
1SS4:. It heing well hiovj7i that W.3I. Whitney d; Co., carry 
a larger stock of Holiday Goods than all the Iroy Estohlsh- 
ments combined, is a sn^cient reason why all the Ladies of 
Troy and vicinity visit Albany to make' their choice selection 

these goods. 

W. M Whitney <& Co. have this season heen obliged to open 
part their Holiday Importation on the 'tnain floor. The 
store is illuminated by the Electric Light, and consequently 
iaakes it the best lighted in Alhany or Troy. 

W. M. Whitney & Co., open these goods several weeks ear- 
lier than usual so vs to enable their patrons tomake their se- 
lectons with better satisfaction, as every day the crowd en- 
ereases in th s department. 

The stock presented this year excels n extent and variety 
any previous ofering by 

W. M. WHITNEY & CO., 

43, 45, 47 ^ 49 Ji. Pearl St., Albany, JV. Y. 



iEHSssHSHSHisassasiszszs^sasBSBSHSHHBffEsasHEasHsasHsarai 



58 CHOP-STICKS. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



^^^sasisE^aasassssasasrEsasasEsasasasEsasasEsasESEsasEsaa 



x^x 









*kix 



xjiT 






> 

^ 



CHOP-STICKS. 51> 

COMPETITION DEFIED. 

CiUETT ^ SONS. 

TEMPLE o^ MUSIC 

Kep- 
resent the 
largest number 
F.*.! of valuable agencies. 

Possess the most hberal 
facihties, and have a record of 
over a quarter of a century for fair 
and honorable dealing. At this popular 
depot you will find the largest stock of Sheet 
Music, Music Books, and Musical Mer- 
chandise to be found in the market, 
Low for CasVi or on easy terms. 
You can procure the Stein - 
way,Chickering, Web- 
er, Miller, Gabler, 
^ Fischer and 

|0-1 Groves- 

teen Pianos, and 
the Estey and Wilcox & 
White Organs at most satisfactory 
prices. Every instrument warranted. 
Satisfaction guaranteed. Do not fail to call I 
and seethe bargains. A pleasure to show goo si 

265 RIVER STREET, 

TROY, N. Y. 



x'x 
xjx* 



WORLD'S BEST INSTRUMENTS. 

fEsasESEsasasaHasasasasasESHSHSHsaHHsassssHSiasasasHSMia 



61 CHOP-STICKS. 




Housekeepers, Attention I 

FOR A FULL LINE OF 

ves.Crockeri Glass 



) 



TIN-WjlRE, TABLE COTLERT, 

jmi IROH;WARE, LAMPS, 

VASES, ADD SlliVER^PliATEQ WARE, 

OF ALL KINDS, CALL AT 



76 Congress Street. 

Nothing but first-class goods of the latest patterns 
found there. Prices equally as low as in any other first- 
class store in northern New York. The most complete 
place in either Troy or Albany to select a complete house- 
keeping outfit. The greatest courtesy shown to all ladies 
whether they purchase or not, at 



\uul^ M! mi^ Wl 'iM . ^P 



76 Congress Street, Troy, N. Y. 



CHOP-STICKS. 60 

WILSON & GROSS, 



Manufacturers. Jobbers & Retailers of 

1 



tmAM'Wfi 



l>epai'tineiit conducted ou tii*- oue>]>rice !«y»<iileiu. 




Xlie Assoi"Hiic*»t tlie l>ia«*Ke»t «»» rVorllierii r\c>v York, and 
tlie leading clotliierfA of'lliis jieclion. Clolliiiagforall clariti- 
es and condition!!! ol'iVJen, Voulliii* and ISoys. 

WILSON & GROSS, 
THE POPULAR CLOTHIERS. 

490 & 492 Broadway and 26 Maiden Lane. ALBANY, N. Y. 



'^2 CHOP*STICKS. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



^SHSB5HS2SHSfaSB5H5aEra5ZSHSiSH52SraSHSHSHSBSBSE52S2SHHSEe 



eEsasHSHsasasHSHSzsEszszsasasHSHSHsasasHssEEHHHSsasasasii 

CHOP-STICKS. 63 

HENRY LOBDELL & CO., 

WALL PAPER WINDOW SHADES, 

No. d3 & 134 THIRD ST., 

TROY, JV. Y. 

INTERIOR DECORATING A SPECIALTY. 

6r2:^^LES-:-E.-:-DEIi:5I]0, 



DEALER IN 



iHI J 



in ^■I'l « 



ARD GQaNTRY PR0DaCE, 

NO. 500 FULTON STREET, 

TROY, N. Y. 

GOODS DELIVERED TO ALL PARTS OP THE CITY FREE OF CHARGE 



{'A CHOP-STICKS. 



HEDRY RGWliANDS,'*^ 

IMPORTER OF 



t.. ♦. 




"' 'f 



a 



t5|g| ani fise llort^, 



/RUSTIC JEWELRY j\NDSILVEp>RE, 

Largest and best stocJc in the city and lowest 

prices. 

27 N. Pearl St., Cor. Maiden Lane, 

ALBANY, N. Y. 

FREAK'S 

GPI]D r?OIiID^Y DISPIi^^Y. 

It has for' yecws ^>«c«^ hee^i admHted as a fact heyond all 
donht that Frear's collection of seasonable goods for the Holi- 
days^ was uoiapproachahle for magiiitude and variety. But 
this seaso7i, imagination will hardly enahle yoti to fornt even 
an approximate idea of Frear''s offerings., they heing the full- 
est and most comprehensive ever shown, occupying for their ex- 
hibition a large proportion of the main and second floors, in 
fact each of the tlm'ty three departments have been crowded to 
tnake room, for this mammoth holiday stock, which exceeds by 
far the combined stock of all the stores in Troy, Albany arid 
vicinity. It is impossihle to give even a brief outline of the 
many 'marvels shown at Frear''s. Suffice it is to say that 
there is nothing new or elegant,desirahle or stapAe, suitable as for 
a present for all, from the youngest child to the gray -headed 
sire, that is not represented at Headquarters of the 

Trojan Santa Claus, Troy Cash Bazaar. 



CHOP-STICKS. 6;> 



>a %j%W^m^^. 



mi. . . . 

.140 Second St., Sr 4^ Division, Street, Troy, JV. Y. 

FINEST QUALITIES OF 

Staple and Fancy Groceries, 

fORPIQf^ i\fID DOPESTIC T^BLE LUXOKiES, 

OF EVERY DESCRIPTION, 
Your orders are respectfully solicited. 

Agency for Miss Martin's 

ANGEL FOOD. SPONGE CAKE, ELECTION CAKE, WEDDING CAKE, &C 



The successful cooking of the Recipes in this book can 
not be guaranteed unless the Coal is purchased of 

STONE & CRANDELL, 

DEALERS IN ALL KINDS OF 

C'Cal awi ^niWiiig Materials 

No. 389 RIVER STREET, 

TROY, N. Y, 

C, R, STONE, 0,-N, CRANDELL, 



QH CHOP-STICKS. 



MANUFACTURERS OF 

BDTTON-HOLE M>CHIliES, 

FOE ALL FABRICS, 

Offices : 

42 White Street, New York. 

506 Fulton Street, Troy, N. Y. 

108 & 110 Franklin Street, Chicago. 

120 Sutler Street, San Francisco. 

40 Aldermanbury, E. C, London. 



cut flowers. 

Floral Forms for Funerals and for General 
Decorations tastefully arranj^ed. 



ORDERS BY TELEPHONE. 



UNDERCLIFFE GREEN HOUSE. 

BALL PLACE, near Lansing St., 
MISSES CLARK, West Troy, N. Y. 

SAFE ! SAFE ! SAFE ! 

PRATT'S ASTBAL OIL. 

THE REASON WHY— Because it has been burned in thousands of families in Troy 
for the last fifteen years, and NOT ONE FIRE OR ACCIDENT has ever occured from its 
use. 

WHY WILL YOU 

Take such a risli with your wife and children, by burning kerosene oil There are 
fires and explosions every day from it. If you would burn 

PRATrS ASTRAL OIL 

You wonld be safe every time. It is the only safe oil to burn in your family. It will 
not smell, smoke or explode. Try it and yoii will never use any other oil. Over one 
million gallons have been sold in Troy. Not one fire or accident has ever occurred 
from its use. 

L. burton & CO., 87 and 89 Congress St., 

GENERAL AGENTS. 



EI5H5Z5E5a5H5a55a5H5Z5H5HHHHMH5"ESa5H5H5BS2SHSH5Z5H5aSSB 

CHOP-STICKS. <U 

O. H. ]SO»WOFtTH, 

DRUGGIST and APOTHECARY,- 



SIGN BIG MORTAR, 



312 RIVER STREET, 



TROY, N. Y. 



Drugs and Medicines Strictly Pure. At Bosworth's Diug Store. 

Fancy Goods for Holiday and Wedding Presents. 

At Bosworth's Drug Store 

Pure Cream-tartar and Baking Soda. At Bosworth's Drng Store 

Wax Flower Materials. At Bosworth's Drug Store 

Buckskin Underwear for Ladies & Gentlemen. At Bosworth's Drug Store 

Bethisda Mineral Water, Sole Afiency. At Bosworth's Drug Store 

Toilet Requisites and Perfumery, At Bosworth's Drug Store 

BOSWORTHS DRUG STORE, 
Sign Big Mortar, 312 RIVER STREET. 



MATIOMAIL YEAST 




MAKES GOOD BREAD. 

A POSITIVE LUXURY, AND THE VERY BEST OF 
ITS KIND IN USE. 

All iirst-class Grocers have it lor sale. Try it, and you will use no other. 



68 CHOP-STICKS. 



3BSTA.I5IL.ISia[I£:i> ISGC 

WILLIAM FERGUSON, 

(Successor to Dodds & Ferguson,) 

PLUMBER, GAS AND STEAM FITTER. 

Sole agent for Mitchell, Vance & Co,'s Cras Fixtures. 

SWAMSCOT Machine Co/s 
REIUHN TUBE UPRIGHT BOILER. 

Tlie most economical and best low pressure" 
steam heating apparatus made. 

SPTCCIFICATIONS &ESTIMATES 
Furnishad for 

PLUMBING, GAS AND STEAM nEATING, 
359 and 361 FULTON STREET, 

TROY, N. Y. 




We exhibit at all times the best Stock of Boys', Masters' 
and Youths' Suits and Overcoats, to be found North of 
of New York, and unrivalled there in quality and prices. 
This so comprehensive that it covers all qualities and ac- 
commodates itself to the purse of all families no matter 
what kind of a Suit or overcoat you may want for the 
Boy, we have it. 

We also continue the leading house in Men's Clothing, 
carrying excellent fashionable suits and overcoats, the 
largest and finest stock in the country. Most of our goods 
are exclusively our own,while our manufacture is admit- 
ted superior. 

MORRIS GROSS, MARBLE HALL, 
336 & 338 Eiver Street, extending through the block, and 

including 13, 15 & 17 Fourth Street. 
@E5EiS5i5i5E5E5E5E5E5H5E525Z5E5ZEE5E5E5E525ESZ5E5Z52525@ 



CHOP-STICKS. 69 

BOSTON A[(D ALBANY CLOTHI^'hODSE, 

48 & 50 STATE STREET, 

ALBANY, N. Y. 



Our mammoth and complete stock of clothing selling 
at very low prices. Railway fare paid both ways to all 
our Troy customers. Custom department under the 
management of Mr. R. C. Davis. 



;y ]L, Si' 



4S ^ so state Street, Albany, M. Y. 

FINE RUBBER CLOTHING. 



G 



ENUINE 

OSSAMER 

ARMENTS 



FOR 



Men, Ladies, Misses, Youtlis, Boys and Children, 

LADIES' Fine Rubber Goods a SPECiyiLTY. 

A COMPLETE STOCK OF 

Rubber Goods, of every description. 
Standard Goods. Low Prices. 

DANIEL KLOCK. Jr.. 

10 BROA DWAY, TROY, N. Y. 

RUBBER BOOTS and SHOES AT WHOLESALE, No. 227 Eiver Street. 



B5H5E5ZSZF2a52S525H5E5Hnsa5Z5H5H5HEHEiSZSZ52SZSiSS5HSH!i 

70 CH05*-STICKS. 

ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



@£fia£^S25252«^?2$a^2SE52S2£B£;2£12S25252!SS25Z525Z5^^ 



EaszsaszsaszsasasasasasasasasasssBssszsassHSBEsasasasasii 

CHOP-STICKS. 71 



GO TO 

FOR 






No. 125 Congress St , Co^ 5th. 

ATsTD 

No, 464 Fulton Street, 

GUNNISON B'LD'G, 



Wheeleb k Wilson Manufacturing Co.'s 

SEWING MACHINES, 

Are adapted to all grades of sewing done in the Family 
or Factory, from the finest silks, linen or cotton to the 
heaviest grades of leather. If in need of a machine for any 
purpose, either to purchase or rent, or desire any attach- 
ment part, needles, oil, belting, button- hole or shurring 
machines. A machine repaired, or anything pertaining 
to a machine, you will find it at the lowest living prices 
at their salesroom. 

454 and 456 Fulton Street, Troy, N. Y. 



7^ CHOP-STICKS. 

W. A. SHERMAN, 

DEALER IN 

^^SPIiEpiD'' P:^]^L0R stoves, 

Dl/MOND COOK STOVES AhD RANGES, 

AND ALL MAKES OF 

FULLER & V/ARREN CO.. FURNACES, 

ALSO, 

TI[{;WA1\E, WOODEN-WARE, AG/TE-W/I^E, EN/MELED-WARE 

Tm, COPPER AND SHEET IRON WAKE TO ORDER. 

STOVES STORED. 259 RIVER STREET. 

JONES & PODMORE, 
DIAMONDS, WATCHES, JEWELRY, 

AND OPTICAL GOODS. 
Table Furnishings in Silver and Plated Ware. 

POCKET CUTLERY. 



Watch Repairing a Specialty at JONES & PODMORE'S 

280 River St., Troy, N. Y. 



CHOP-STICKS. 73 

LADIES' UNDERWEAR 

9^ 



Cor. Broadway and Third Street. 

Ladies' Chemise at 45c Night Dresses at 50. 

White bkirts at 50. 
Fine grades of the above, up to the best qualities 
manufactured. We keep only well made goods. 

INFANTS' WEAR. 

A full aseortmeiit of Long and Short Dresses, from 50c 
upwards. Inf:aits' Embroidered Shawls and Flannel 
Skirts, from 81 upwards Infants' Merino Cloaks in all 
colors and qualities. 

^^^ See our Hemstiched Handkerchiefs at §1.50 per 
doz. and upwards, Embroidered Handkerchiefs 25c and 
upwards. Children's Printed Linen Handkerchiefs at Toe 
per doz. SASHES and SASH EIBBONS. 

JAMES f> Amity $e m„ 

LEADING DFALERS 

IN FINE IMPORTED AND AMERICAN 

WALL PAPERS, 

ALSO, A LARGE LINE OF 

WINDOW SHADES AND FIXTURES, 

CEILINQ DECORATING 

AND ALL KINDS OF PAINTING DONE BY COMPETENT ARTISTS. 
267 RIVER STREET, TROY, N. Y. 



74 CHOP-STICKS. 

ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



ilsasHsasasasHssszsESEsasaszsHSEsasHSHSHSHSEsssasHSssas^ 



ilSH5SSHSrS£rHE5S55SES5HSHSH5HSHSS5H5HS'S5iE5t!SZ52SE5ZS15HSea 

CHOP-STICKS. 75 



JOHNSTON &REILLY. 

$3 ^ 61 W, fE^pi ST., fUBfiWY. 

Invite sproial attantion 1o their large and varied stock of 

RICHiiELEGANT SILKS, 

SATINS, VELVETS & PLUSHES. 

ALSO, A FULL LINE OF 
Paris and Berlin NOVELTIES in Fur Trimmed Cut side Garments, 
CAMELS HAIR SHAWLS, &c., &c. 

JOHNSTON & REILLY, 

59 a 61 IT. PEARL ST., ALBANY. 

ESTABLISHED 1843, 



468 & 470 BROADWAY, 

ALBAJfY, .A', r. 

The Oldest Firm. 

The Largest Stock. 

The Lowest Prices. 

For China, Glass, Crockery, 

Silw fare, Platei Ire, KasFixiiires 

LAMPS AJVI) BRIC-A-BRAC. 



g25HSE5Z5E5HE2SESaS2SEEESE5a5ZSa£E5EEZSSSSZSZSSHSH5EE2ED 



70 



CHOP-STICKS, 



^^ 



¥ATGHES,o0IAMGNDS,oJEa5EliRY,« 

SILVER WARE, CLOCKS, BRONZES, &G., 



AT 



M. TIMPANE, LEADIN 



1 
J t. 



EWL.. 






TROY, N. Y. 

GOODS WARRANTED. PRICES LOW. 

S/ITISFACTIO}] GU/RANTEED AT 
S MUSEU 



S, A, PETERSON, 



GEORGE A, PACKER 



PETERSON & PACKER, 



T 




TROY, N. Y. 



OFFICE, 

Dennin Building cor. Front & Fulton Sts. 



All Rail Del. & Hudson; & Del. Lack, & Western Coal a Specialty. 



CHOP-STICKS. n 

MANUFACTURERS OF & DEALERS IN 

^FURNITURE,* 

OF ALL KINDS. 
189 a 191 RIVEE STREET, CORNER STATE, 

TRO^ , N. Y. 

ROBERT KEITH. L.W.RAYMOND. 

WILLIAM II. BARNES, 



'^ JL A^CJ -^^ J^JtliJSj^ 



Gas and Steam Fitter, 

No. 14 First Street, Troy. N. Y. 



The Laro-est Plumbinor Establislimeut in Northern New York. 

The Oldest and Best Workmen and the Lowest Pnces. 

Agent for ARCHER & PANCOURT Gas Fixtures. 



(lSES1!SZffaisZS5H55SEH5c!5Z5HSHSHSHSSSHSiSHEHSlSlSHSHESSHSS!a 

IS CHOP-STICKS. 

ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



@5HHi!5Z5BS?^?2?25?HH52£^5E525lB5H52£?51S2E2S2Si525Z52S^ 



dasasssasasasHsssEsasESEsasHsasasasssasassTESEasasasasasiD 

CHOP-STICKS. 79 



BOOTS, SHOES & RUBBERS, 

^G. D. PACKARD & SQN,^ 

69 Congress St., Uiukr Ran I's opera House. 

The Oldest Boot and Shoe House in the City. 
Our goods are bought direct from the manufac- 
turers, enabling us to sell at bottom prices. Up- 
ham Brothers S)- Co., Gents' Fine Shoes, J. C. Ben- 
nett Sf Barnard's, E C. Burt's and J. S)- T. Cous- 
in's Ladies' Fine Shoes, P. Cox Bros. Boys' ^ 
Youtns' Calf Button a specialty. J. J. Grover's 
Sons hand sewed shoes in all styles and widths 
constantly on hand. 

CHAUNCEY D, PACKARD, AUGUSTUS P, PACKARD. 

The best in the World is WASHBNRN, CROSBY & 
CO.'S of Minneapohs, Minn, It makes more, and better 
bread than any other. 

None genuine unless their full name is on the brand 
and the initials, ( W. C- & CO. ) burnt in the staves. 

FOR SALE BY ALL GROCERS 

ID. HI. I^L^OI^ & SOn^T, 
^ MILL AGENTS ^ 

361 River Street, Troy, N. Y. 



80 CHOP-STICKS. 

JAMES O'NEIL, 

Wholesale and Retail EVealer in all Sizes of 

LEHIGH &. LACMAl^AWMA 
Front & Ferry Sts., Troy, N. Y. 



EDWARD R. AA^ALES, 

FRESCO PAIN^TER, 

Designs and Estimates on all kinds of Painting, Decorating & Lettering. 

No. 10 STATE STREET, 
Office with Green & Waternmn's, 281 River St,, TROY, N. Y. 

C. A. MEEKER, 

19 FERRY STREET, 

TROY, N. Y. 



CHOP-STICKS. 81 

" TliB MU Mi to tlie Greatest Niier," 



Large Sales and Small Profits. 

IN EVERY DEPARTMENT OF 

MAMMOTH DRY GOODS HOUSE, 

85 and 87 Third St,, & 57 and 59 Congress St,, 

Cor, Franklin, TROY. N. Y. 



\\\\\\\^\'\^ \\\\\\\\\^^ ^XWKSX ^TJW^ ^^^^^ ^^N*^ *\Wu\--^ ^^vrTTP* ^(P 

No. 39 & 41 No. N. Pearl St., Albany. 

PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO OUR UPHOLSTERV DEPARTMENT. 

FOR ANYTHING YOU MAY WANT GO TO THE FAMUOS 

TROY DOLLAR STORE 

Lowest Prices. Greatest Vari^^ty. 

Beautiful Goods and Quantities of tliem. 

The entire "building devot:d to elegant articles adapted for presents. 



82 CHOP?STICKS. 

RECEIPT. 
For making your money, return face value every time, 

GO TO 

FOR YOUR 

|f| foQi^', floafel, llsill, |lllt|, 

ESPECIALLY, 

DRESS GOODS, HOSIERY, GLOVES, UNDERWEAR. 

ALWAYS RELIABLE. GOODS HONEST, PRICES THEIR MOTTO- 
FAIR & SQUARE. 

306 and 308 HIVER, AND 322 FULTON STREETS. 

E. A. BURROWS, J. C. ARCHIBALD, D. FRANK BONTECOU. 

E. A. BURROWS & CO., 

DEALER IN 

Agate Iron Ware, Lamps, Tin Ware. Silver 

Plated Knives. Forks and Spoons, 

Water Coolers and Filters. 

Baskets of all kinds. 

Carriages and Sleighs. 

Toys, and a full line of Fancy Articles for the Holidays. 

209 River St., Troy N. Y. 



CHOP-STICKS. 83 

COTRELL & LEONARD, 

Fashionable Furriers, 46 State Street, Albany, N. Y. 

Offer an Especially Attractive Assortment of Perfect fitting Garments 
for Ladies' Winter Wear, and for Popular Prices. 

SEai SKIN OOLMflNS END SftCQUEEI 

SATIN, MINK AND SQUIRREL LINED 

DOLMANS, CIRCULARS AND CLOAKS, 

CLOTH GARMENTS IMPORTED DIRECTLY FROM THE CITY OF PARIS, 

AND A GREAT VARIETY OF 

Fur Trimmings, Muffs, Collars, Capes & Small Furs, 

BESIDES A VERY LARGE STOCK OF 

S LE IG H ROB ES, FUR CAPS & GLOVES. 

COTRELL & LEONARD, 

,Vo, 46 State Street, Albany, Ji. Y. 



FOR YOUR 

CARPETS, RUGS, MATS 

nPr^OLSSE^Y-i-GOODS, 

GO TO 

A. B, VAN GAASBEEK & CO., 

51 NORTH PEARL ST, 



84 CHOP-STICKS, 

FURNITURE. FURNITU RE. 

DO NOT FAIL TO VISIT 



When in want of Furniture. 

WHERE THE VERY BEST GOODS ARE FREELY 
SHOWN, AND AT THE LOWEST PRICES. 

329 Sj' 331 River St., Troy, JV. Y, 

LIVERY, BOARDING AND EXCHANGE STABLE. 



J. H. W^iLLiAMSON & Son, 

22 # 24 Fourth Street, Troy, JY. Y. 

BEST OF HORSES & CARRIAGES AT REASONABLE RATES, 

FOR SALE-HORSES, CARRIAGES & HARNESS. 

JAMES B. HALL, 

Wholesale and Retail 

DRY GOODS & MILLINERY, 

77, 79, 81 & 83 CONGRESS ST., 
Bet. Third & Fourth Streets,. TROY. N. K 



CHOP-STICKS. 85 



Clothing and Tailoring 

23 Third Street, Troy, N. Y. 

BOYS' CLOTHING A SPECIALTY. 



FINIS fhotogba; 




I^'ollisng: more acceptable for 
a IIoli4l:iy fiit't tliaii one of 
£>loy«l*s !!«ii|!;erl> plioto<!>. Call 
ami (see Mpeciuieiis, Only one 
iK;;'lit of stairs. I^i$>litnin;;f 
l>lioto;(rapliy. 

44 THIRD STREET, 

TROY, N Y. 



DAVID F. MAGILL, 
.A. IP O T 131 E O -A. I^ "Z" , 

Druggists' Fancy and Toilet Articles, Paints, Oils and Crlass. 
10 King Street, Troy, ,W. Y. 

AGENT FOR THE GREAT AMERICAN TEA CO.'S TEAS AND COFFEES. 

STAMPING 

KENSINGTON ART STORE, 

361 Broadway, Troy, N. Y. 
stamping, pinking & embroidering. 

A good assortment of stamped goods constantly on hand, as Splashes, Tray Cloths 
Carving Cloths, Tidies, Aprons, Silk Chenilles, Silk, Linen and Cotton Crewels, Felt, 
Plush, Cinvas, and all materials for art needle-work. 

A. A. DOYLE, late of Springfield, Mass. 



@ISH5HSZ5H5ZZ5a5i5H5H5i5i5ZSH5H5HSZSHSH5BS2SHSH5SS2SH5HS12a 

80 CHOP-STICKS. 

ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



CHOP-STICKS. 87 

No. 4 Museum Place, Troy N. Y. 
CARRIES A NICE STOCK OF 



f itdlf I, fkcl:^, let ikfi &mw 

We have on hand the largest assortment of 

HOILIBAT eOOBB, 

that we have ever offered to the puhhc. 

DRAKE & MOFFITT, 

No. 3 Second St., Mansion House, Troy, N. Y. 



E. W. BOUGHTON & CO., 

Manufacturers of 

FINEST SEAL GARMENTS, 

FUR LINED CIRCULARS, 

MUFFS, TRIMMIJ^GS AND GLOVES 

BUY THE BEST. 

GO TO AVEBBER'S for your 

BLUE POINT OYSTERS. 

465 Fulton Street. 

CONNECTED BY TELEPHONE. 
EESasa5Z5H5HSH5SSESS5E5HSaSSSS5HS2SH5E5HSrlSHSHSB£ZSHSlSB 



88 CHOP-STICKS. 



jr. r». H 1 : Fi i^ e: rj. t, 

ART BRIC-A-BRAC, 

MANUFACTURER OF 



FINE CARDS A SPECIALTY 
355 Broadway and 404 Fulton St., Troy, 

Mrs. J. A. CARR. 



n 



m 



v> 



NERT KTABLISHIEN 

V 

204 River Street, Troy, N. Y, 

Famous Cough Drops 

Are a never failing and speedy remedy for coughs 
and colds and all throat complaints, also, all 
kinds of pure confectionery on hand. 

372 RIVER STREET. 

FUR PARLORS. 

THEONLY FUR HOUSE IN TROY. 
All kinds of fur garments made to order and repaired. 

2 Keenan Block, Broadway, Troy, N. Y. 



CHOP-STICKS. 89 



HAS A SPLENDID STOCK OF 

?£iTa,0A^VASSES#0iREW£iS 

Angora aiirt Angolin Wool*., Knitting, Etching; and 
&>inbroide.y ?*3llts, also Kibbons, I.aces,Hos- 
lery, Luderwear, <]}Iove<!i, i^otloii«$, Mil- 
linery, Etc., 

COR. BROADWAY & THIRD ST., TROY, N. Y. 

Book and Job Printer, 

Cor. Fourth and River Sts.., 

TROTS', TST. "5r. 

30PERI0I1W0H^R/T LOW PRICES, Of EI|S BY TELEPHONE. 



WINFI ELD'S "GOOD ENOUGH" 

OIL CAN. 

Clean. Convenient, Can't Eeak. Tlii!« can 
is made from the be.-^t IX eliaa-coal tin plate 
and is made for servaee S>ani|>s are lille«l 
direct by tlie pnmp witliont liftin;^ tite can, 

FOR SALE BY 

PEABODY & PARKS, 

riEOY, I^. V. 




WILLIAM BLISS. 

BOOK BINDER, 

AND BLANK BOOK MANUFACTURER, 

CANNON PLACE, up-stairs, TROY, N. Y. 
Pamphlet and Periodical Binding. 



90 CHOP-STICKS. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES, 



iE53iSEsaiasasasE5asi5H5E5HsasE5HSiLSH5HsasH5asasasH^H^ 



CHOP-STICKS. ill 

GIFTS. PICTURES. 

FRAMES. ARTIST MATERIALS, 



J, B, BUTLEK, 

DEALER IN 

Parlor and Cook Stoves and Ranges, 

AND MANUFACTURER OF 

Tin, Copper and Sheet'Iron Ware^ 
399 & 401 RIVER ST., TROY, N. Y. 

Particular Attention Paid to Plumbing, Roofing and Jobbing. 

REMEMBER. 

SHEFFER, formerly of Troy, will pay 
your fare tlie round trip by purchasing your 
shoes at 63 North. Pearl St., Albany, where 
you will find a complete line of fine shoes and 
every pair marked in plain figures, at SHEF- 
FP^RS, 63 North Pearl St., Albany- 



HOUSE FURNISHING GOODS 

432 River Street, Cor. Jacob, Troy, N. Y. 

C^liiua, Croclcery and CJIassware, Oranite, Irou an«l 
l*earl Ajg-afe ^Vare, Tin aaid ^Voodeii ^Vare, Slovos and 
Rangeiii, L.anips and l¥rins-er<«. Bird CagfeN and anytliin^g' 
to f*ui*ni!«li kitchen and dinin;^ room. 

ESHS15HSBSHHSaSffaFaSE!S25HSHSH5HFH5H5HScISZFE5aBi25H5H5iSHIi 



92 CHOP-STICKS. 

STOUT & STILLMAN, 

No. 504 Fulton Street, 

TROV, IV, V. 

ORDERS FOE FAMILY ITSE ATTENDED TO. TELEPHONE CONNECTION. 



ESTABLISHED i812 



IMPORTICR OF 



<? Times Building, Troy, JV. T. 

JOHN G. MAIRS, 

4 KENSINGTON ART ROOMS, -^^ 

10 Broadway, Troy, N. Y. 

stamping, designing and materials for embroidery, 

M. B SHERMAN, 

LADIES' & GENTLEMEN'S 

BOOT ^I]D Sr20E EEQPO^railQ, 

S3 Mrth Pearl Street, Albany, K. Y. 

BiSH5E5asa5E5ESlL5HSESESE5ZSZ5SIii5ESEElEZ5Z5ESESHSH5E52SH 



CHOP-STICKS. 93 

THOMAS DEVINE & SON, 

OFFER THE BEST BARGAINS IN THE CITY. 

DE60pTEDv6r2^I]QBE^:-SETS, 

ONLY $2 90. 

Everytliin^- sold at tlie lowest pric**s. It will pay lioiise- 
keepei-s to exaiuaiie pi*ice.>> at Ueviue's House l-^urnishiiig^ 
S»tore, 

85 CONGRESS STREET, TROY, 

TO"YSI TO^STSll TO^S'SIII 

At M. W. SCRIVEN & CO., 

You will always find a large and Complete assortment of 

TI^ ai^d GMAiyiTE I BOW WABS, 

Carpet Sweepers. Brooms, Dust-Pans, Dusters, Door IVIats, Bird Cages, 

Laundry Clothes, Work Baskets, and all kinds of 

HOUSE FURNISHING GOODS, 

Also, the largest and Finest line of Toys, in the city. Dolls, Doll Carriages, 

Express Wagons.Baby Can"iages,Sleiiihs and every thing to please the liitle ones 

Special Arrangements for Holiday Trade. Do not forget the niim"ber, 

231 & 233 RIVER ST,, OPPOSITE TROY HOUSE, TROY, N, Y, 

TOYS. TOYS. XOIS. 

J. M. BUTCHER & SON, 

DEALERS IN FINE POCKET& TABLE 

CUTLEEY, SHEARS, SCISSORS. 

An<l a line line of Slielf IlardTrare, Carpenters Xools, 
i^lails, IloHse Furuishin;: 4jiOO<ls, Xin <& Wooden Ware 

96 OONaHESS STEEET, near 4th TEOY, N. Y. 



TH0MAS GANLEY, 



DEALER IN 



TEAS, COFFEES AND SUGARS 

SPICES AND FINE GROCERIES, 

CHINA TEA STORE, 

JVb. 38H River St., Chatham Square, Troy, M, Y, 



94 CHOP-STICKS. 

ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



gin'»ir?trg'??g^g3g:^g?'?1L'in&gg51&5M1ggggJ^ 



EEsasasaszsEsaHasasHsasHSHsasHSHSzsasaHHSsBSHHsasasHSMii 

CHOP-STICKS. 95 



B^OJiDWiJlY WW^W STOP 

Largest and Best Assortment of Dress 
Trimmings in the City. 

Broadway and Second Street, Troy. 

BOOKS, STATIONERY AND 



All the books of ilie xVIetliodist Book Concern. 
C Va. S. C ]Sook!i>4 School Books, Holiday 4jroods. 

266 River Street, - - Troy, N. Y. 

HUYLER'S 

Old Fashion Molasses Candy, and 

FINE CONFECTIONERY, 
7 TIMES BUILDING, TROY, N, Y. 

rO A T ^^^^ ^- TUPPER, 

^ ^ -^ -*-^ 433 River Street, Troy, N. Y. 

SELLS THE BEST COAL IN TROY. 



CO^L ^T WHOLESALE, ^T COPP^^Y PRICES. 

EjaHESESaSHSHSHSaSESHSESESHHaSSSHSHEHSHSaEHHESHSHSESESlSH 



iISZ5H5ZEa5H2SZ55iSBSlS5HSBS25S51SH5T2SH5H5HSlSE5H5SSE5H5H!l 

«»♦; CHOP-STICKS. 

SAMUEL C. TAPPIN, 



AND DEALER IN 

Silver ware, Spectacles & Eye Glasses. 
Jewelry of every description. Black Onyx Jewelry a Specialty 

Watches and Jewelrj- Carefully Repaired by Experienced Workmen. 

236 EIVEE STREET, TROY, N. Y. 

M, A, MOMKISSEY'-'S 
OITSTZEJI?. HOUSE, 

Families and Parties Supplied in shell opened, or 
('ooked in any form. 

No. 1 Fulton St., Troy, N. Y. 

ORDERS RECEIVED BY TELEPHONE, 

STAMPER iS STRAIT, 

Le/ding Hatters >ND Men's Outfitters, 

3i6 RIVER STREET, TROY, N. Y. 
Those desiring the best goods at reasonable prices are invited. 

143 FOURTH STREET, TROY, N. Y. 

IDEXlTEIi'S EPIE-A.ID, 

IDEXlTEIi'S TE.A. BISCXJIT, 
IDEXlTEIi'S 'WHITE Js/LOTJISTT J>l.X1ST O-A^KIE. 



ALSO, SUPERIOR MIXED CAKE 25c PER LB. 

iaEaSH5iSHS13.«n>«r<;5^5aSH5H5BSH5H5E5a5E5HSH5a5E5H5E5HSaSH5aa 



CHOP-STICKS. 97 



Miss S. B. Jordan, 



DEALER IN 



CORSETS, ZEPHYR WOOLS, 

ALSO, LADIES' UNDERWEAR, 

Corner OF Congress & 2d Streets, - Troy, N. Y- 

ESTABLISHED, 1831. 

DEALER IN 

FINE GROCEEIES, 

ALES, WINES, ETC., 

FOR MEDICINAL USE 
271 RIVER STREET. TROY. N. Y. 

~ CHAS. fTgraserT" 

Manufacturer of and Dealer in 

ICB CRMAWI, FANCY and TEA CAKES, 
63 Congress Street. - - - TROY, N. Y. 

Parties and Weddings Supplied. — - 



Miss Ida F- Poulis, 

TEACHER OF 



ORDERS TAKEN FOR DECORATION ON SILK, 

SATIN OR VELVET PLUSH, 

EITHER IN OILS OR LUSTRA COLORS 

STUDIO, ROOM 40 HALL BUILDING. 



98 CHOP-STICKS. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



CHOP-STICKS. 99 



MANSION HOUSE BLOCK, 

TROY, N. Y. 

You c%n always find the larg:e.«t and moMt complete a««> 
Bortment oi' L<a«1ies^, Misse.s and Children's Miioes, IHiilin- 
ery, Kibbons, Silks, I^otions, Liaces. Underwear, Corsets, 
tiiloTes, Hosiery, Jovelry, &c., &c. We guarantee to sell 
cheaper than any other house in the city. 



DEALER IN 

WATCHES, CLOCKS and JEWELRY. 

236 EIVER STREET. (Troy House Building,) TROY, N. Y. 

A large and well assorted Stock of 

Watches, Clocks, Jeweli|y, STEi{Li^GSiLVEf(& Silvei\^Pl/ted Wa^^e 

Constantly on hand. 

SPECTACLES and EYE GLASSES A SPECIALTY. 

ANTIQUE FURNITURE. 

We have opened a special department for 
above goods and are exhibiting many choice 
novelties made in old mahogany. The pat' 
terns are artistic in design, and very desirable. 

JOSEPH HICKS. 

44 THIRD STREET, TROYJ.Y. 



100 CHOP-STICKS. 



PECK'S ABC A ©IE, 
207, 209, 211 BROADWAY. TROY, N. Y. 

Agent for Columbia Germantown Wools. 

Columbia, Saxony, Shetland Floss and Wool. 

And all kiiKls of Yarns made by tlie Columbia Mdl». 

A full line of Peckham's Rhode Island Yarns. 

Hand Knit Goods of all kinds on hand, and made to order. 

Embroidery, Etching and Knitting Silks in all Colons and Shades, 

ALSO, BRIGG'S TRANSFER STAMPING PATT'ERNS, 

Orders by mail will receive prompt attention. 
PAICK'S ARCAMS^:, - 307, 2««, 211 BKOAIMVAV. 

Cor. Broadway & Third Sts-, (Keenan Building) Troy. N. Y, 
OLD CHINA HALL. 

1^39. CSTAlfLliiilfKD FIFTY YFAR!>>i. \^H» 

OPPOSITE TROY HOUSE. 

ELEGANT NEW GOODS. 
CHINA, GLASS, EARTHENWARK 

Artistic and Unique Designs. Holiday and Wedding Presents. 

STARKWEATHER & ALLEN, 

235 <§ 23? RIVER STREET. opposite troy house. 

ARTHUR KAVANAGH, 

Dealer in all kir\ds of 

FRESH AND SALT MEATS, 

OYSTERS, CLAMS & FISH, GAME & POULTRY IN SEASON, 
COR FULTON & FIFTH STS., TROY, N. Y. 

ORDERS BY TELEPHONE PROMPTLY FILLED. 

SaSESiSSKHHSESHSHSESESESESESESHSEEHSHSESHSESZSSSaSHSSS© 



sEDHsasasasHfrHsasHsasHsasasHSEsasHsasasasHSFESHasasasHSHSii 

CHOP-STICKS. 101 



Where do you buy 

GROCERIES? 

YOU CAN SAVE MONEY BUYING FROM 

88 CONGRESS ST , TROY, N. Y. 

— PLEASE CALL AND SEE us. 



% IIQ. ^IlOmLSO]],^ 

350 BnOA.ID'W'-A.'Sr, 

irjo^^^'^- Bet. 3cl &4th Sts., TRO F. N. Y 

'Ss^^'^'^t^''^' store Open Sundays, From 8 1-2 to 10 A. M. 1 to 2 and 6 1-2 to 3 P. M. 

ROSES OF ALL VARIETIES FURNISHED AT SHORT NOTICE. 

U. S. STEAM QPiRPm BEATING W0RKS, 

K. ^1 ENTERVJKLX, Proprietor. 

HOLLOW ROAD. Office and Residence— No 158 3d St. 

OPlI>BR,S LEFT -A.X 




R. BODDEN'S 384 Kiver Street. 

E. COX'S 1 Irving Place,Second & Division 

OREEN & WATERMAN'S 283 River St. 



NELSON'S Furniture Store W. T. 
DOUGREY'S Ex. Office, Lansingburgh. 
ROBINSON'S Ex. Waterford. 



Or by MAIL or TELEPHONE, will receive prompt response. Cartage Free. 
I> PlI OBS: 
INGRAIN, 4 Cents per Yard. ( VELBT, - 7 Cents per Yard. 

BRUSSELS, 6 " '• I WILTON, 8 

MOU«tUEXT and AXiMIJ^SXEK, 9 Cents per Yard. 



A. E. BONESTEEL, 

H AIEB W ABE, 

No. 313 RIVER STREET, 
TROY, N. Y. 

EE5ESiSZ5E5ESESE5ESESE5iZ5ESHSHSHSHSH5£SHSH5HSZ5HSZ5HEa5B 



102 CHOPrSTICKS. 

KENT t:i.4$!$S. 

c Xj o T HE I n^ a- , 

AT 

J-XJLITJ© Sj^TTHL'S!, 

324 & 326 BIVER STREET, AND 23 AND 25 FOUHTH STREET. 

W'^- :ir4' Nellin;;- tOK' F'tne^t 4;(olliin;£. ^Ve are Neilin;;- llie 
B4^«l Fiitin;; Clolliiii;:. Wv ar«' i^elliii;^ at tlie l^owetiit 

For 3Ieii. Voiitli!» aii«l Boy.-*. 

The daily increasing sales is positive evidence that the clothing sold by us 
will stand all tests. 

BOYK^ ci.o'riiii^ci. 

One of the strongest planks in our business platform is the Boys' Clothing 
Department. Our assortment is larger than all others in Troy combined aiid 
really the best in the state Remember we ate the only house that dare fur- 
nish you a written guarantee with your purchase of clothing This surely 
ought to satisfy every man that there is one house at least, where they may 
huv with absolute assurance that they are running no risk ivhatever. 

TROY, N. Y. 



IMPORTER AND DEALER IN 

Fine Groceries, 

Italian Oil, 

SPANISH SHERRIES, 

SPICES AND SAUCES, 

TltO^y, Pi. Y. 



CHOP-STICKS, lOH 



^ FANCY 



triv 



Strawberry Jelly. 

One quart of strawberries, one large cup of sugar, juice 
of one lemon, two- thirds package Cox's gelatine, soaked in 
one cup cold water, one pint boiling water. Mash the 
strawberries to a pulp and strain them through coarse 
muslin. Mix the sugar and lemon juice with the soaked 
gelatine; stir up v\rell and pour over them the boiling 
water, stir until clear; strain through flannel bag, add the 
strawberry juice, strain again, without shaking or pres- 
ing the bag. Wet a mould, with cylinder in centre, in 
cold water, fill it and set it in ice, to form. Turn out upon 
a cold dish, fill with whipped cream, made quite sweet 
with powdered sugar. Serve at once. 

Orange Croquettes. 

Dissolve one-half an ounce of gelatine, beat the whites 
of three eggs stiff; when gelatine is softened, scald into it 
one-half a pint of water, and three lemons, (scald the rind 
I 



104 CHOP-STICKS. 



to get the flavor), make rich with sugar, let it cool, 
almost form, then pour in the whites of the eggs and beat 
together; have ready two dozen oranges, separate the 
sections, removing peel and seeds, lay in a round dish, 
points down and close together, sprinkle with powdered 
sugar and a little wine; let stand an hour or more. When 
whites of the eggs and gelatine are beaten together to look 
like white sponge cake, pour it over the oranges and 
when set, turn it out. 

Mrs. H. Mott. 



Macaroon Basket. 

One pound macaroons, (almond or cocoanut),or "kisses", 
one large cup white sugar, one tablespoonful of dry gum 
arable, one-half cup boiling water. Dissolve the gum 
arable in the hot water thoroughly; then stir in the sugar. 
Boil gently until very thick. Set it, while using it, in a pan 
of boiling water to keep hot. Take a i-ound tin pail, but- 
ter thickly on the Iwttom and sides, dip the edges only, of 
each macaroon in the hot candy and lay them in close 
rows on the bottom until it is covered. Let them get 
perfectly dry and be sure they adhere firmly ,to one another 
before you begin the lower row of the sides. Build up 
your wall, one row at a time, letting each harden before 
adding another. When the basket is done and firm, lift 
carefully from the mould ; make a loop handle at each end 
with four or five macaroons stuck together, set on flat dish 
and heap with' whipped cream. Sprinkle comfits over 
the cream or ornament with red jelly. A mould of stiff 
white paper has advantage over one of tin. You can make 



KLSESHSaSEEHSHSHSasaSEEiSSZSasaSZSZHSSSSESHSZSZSaHHHZEHSE) 



CHOP-STICKS. 105 



it any shape you like, and remove it without any risk of 
breaking the basket, by chpping the threads that hold it 
together. 

Caramel Custard. 

One and one-half cups granulated sugar, browned until 
melted. Boil one quart milk, pour over the sugar, and stir 
until dissolved, yolks of six eggs, flavor with vanilla, a 
little salt. Bake in moderate oven, in pan of water. 
Whip the whites stiff, add a little sugar, when the custard 
is cold, place whites on top and brown in oven. 



Creamy Sauce. 

Half a cupful of butter, one cupful of powdered sugar, 
quarter cupful cream or milk, four tablespoonfuls wine, 
vr one teaspoonful of lemon or vanilla extract, if lemon 
or vanilla is used, add four tablespoonfuls of cream. 
Beat the butter to a cream, add sugar gradually, beating 
all the while. When light and creamy, add the wine, 
and then the cream a little at a time. When all is beat- 
en smooth, place the basin in a bowl of hot water, and 
stir until the sauce is smooth and creamy. It will take 
but a few minutes. 

Mrs. E. McChesney. 



Strawberry Shortcake. 

One cup of powdered sugar, one tablespoonful of 
butter rubbed into the sugar, one heaping cup of prepar- 
ed flour, two tablespoonfuls of cream, bake in three jelly 



10<; CHOP-STICKS. 



cake tins. When cold, lay l^etween the cakes a quart of 
fresh ripe sti'a wherries, sprinkle each layei" with powder- 
ed sugai" and strew the same over the top. 

A PRETfY MIDDLE DISH. 

Cut sponge cake in slices, soak it in wine and 
water, sweeten, add a little lemon juice, stick it with 
peeled almonds. Pom- over it a rich boiled custard. 

M. 

Syllabub. 

One quart of rich cream, four eggs, the wliites only, 
one glass of white wine, two small cups of powdered 
sugar, flavor to taste; whip half the sugar into the cream, 
the rest with the eggs. Mix these and add wine and 
flavoring at the last. 

Ambrosia. 

Six oranges, peeled, sliced, and sprinkled with sugar, 
one cocoanut grated and piled on the oranges. 

M. 

Lemon Trifle. 

Two lemons, juice of both and grated rind of one, one 
cup of Sherry, one large cup of sugar, one pint of cream 
well sweetened and whipped stifl:", a little nutmeg. 
Strain the lemon juice over the fjugar and grated peel, 
and let them lie together, two hours, before adding the 
wine and nutmeg. Strain again and whip gradually into 
the frothed cream. Serve in jelly glasses with cake. It 
should be eaten soon after it is made. 



chop-sticks. 107 

Italian Cream. 

(Jiie quart of cream, four tablespoonfuLs of Cox's gela- 
t ine. Beat the cream with a spoon, flavor and sweeten 
to taste. Dissolve the gelatine in a little milk and add to 
the cream. Bet away in a mould until it is about as thick 
as blanc-mange when it is ready for use. 

JMks. R. S. Norton. 

Apple Fool. 

Strain some stewed apples through a sieve, add a little 
good butter, and sugar to your taste. Grate nutmeg over 
it, flavor to your taste. Serve it with cream for dessert. 

P. 

Chocolate Custard. 

Put one quart of milk with two cups of sugar to boil, 
reserving one cup of milk to dissolve three heaping table- 
spoonfuls of corn starch. Cut up half a cake of Baker's 
chocolate, cover with boiling water, when smooth, add 
to the boiling water and sugar, and let all boil fifteen 
minutes ; then pour in the corn starch flavored with a 
tablespoonful of vanilla, and let it come to a boil, stirring 
constantly. Pour into moulds and set on ice. Eat with 
sweet cream and pulverized sugar. 

Mrs. E. O. H. 

German Charlotte Russe. 

Take half ounce of gelatine, and dissolve it in a little 
milk, then add one cup of sugar, let dissolve, and flavor 
to taste. Take one quart of cream whipped to a froth, 
strain into it the first mixture at a blood heat, beating 



lOS CHOP-'STICKS. 



the cream constantly. Continue beating for a time, then 
turn into a mould lined with cake, and paper covering 
the bottom. Set in a cool place for several hours. 

Mrs. C. B. IIerkkk. 

Italian Banana Cream. 

One pint of cream, four tableepoonfuls of Cox's gela- 
tine, one banana. Beat the cream very light, and sweeten 
to taste. Dissolve the gelatine in a little milk, and add 
to the cream. Cut the banana in thin slices, and stir 
lightly into the cream and gelatine. Mould as you 
w^ould blanc- mange. 

Miss Annie L Force. 

Orange Snow. 

Four large sweet oranges, the grated peel of one, 
the juice and Jialf the grated peel of one lemon, one box 
of Cox's gelatine soaked in a cup of cold water, whites of 
four eggs beaten stiff, one large cup sugar, three cups of 
boiling water. Mix the juice and peel of the fruit with 
gelatine and sugar, leave them covered one hour, then 
pour on the boiling water and stir until clear. Strain 
through flannel. When cold, whip in the beaten whites 
very gradually until the mixture is a white sponge. 
Mould. 

Mrs. E. McChesney. 

Creme du Cafe. 

One pint rich cream whipped light, half package gela- 
tine soaked in one cup of milk, one large cup strong 
black coffee, one cup white sugar, whites of two eggs. 



iiE?E52SESfE5ZSEErlEH5E£HEE515H5HSBS?E2£H525FE5Z2SE5ES2525l3 

CHOP-STICKS. lot) 



Dissolve the soaked gelatine and sugar in the boiling cof- 
fne, when you have strained the latter through fine mus- 
Hn, let it cool. Whip the cream and the whites of 
the eggs in separate dishes. When the gelatine is per- 
fectly cold, beat it by degrees into the whites until it is a 
pretty firm froth, then whip in the cream. Rinse a 
mould in cold water, fill it with the mixture and set it in 
a very cold place, or on ice for eight or ten hours. Serve 
with sweet cream. 

Puff Balls. 

One pint of milk, one pint of flour, three eggs, the 
whites and yolks beaten separately. Bake in cups; to be 
eaten with butter and sugar, for tea, or bake in a dish 
and serve with wine sauce. 

Miss Emma M. Morand. 

Russian Cream. 

One half box of gelatine, to half pint of water, one 
quart of milk, one teacup of sugar, four eggs; yolks and 
sugar stirred into milk; when boiling add gelatine. Let 
it come to a boil ; then take it ofi" and add the beaten 
whites cf the eggs ; flavor with vanilla, pour into moulds. 

Mrs. Joseph Hili.man. 

Summer Snow. 

One package of Cox's gelatine soaked in one cup of 

. cold water, two cups of powdered sugar, juice and peel 

of one lemon, half a pineapple cut in small pieces, two 

cups of boihng water, one glass of best brandy, two 

glasses of Sherry or w^hite wine, a little nutmeg, four 



110 CHOP-STICKS. 



eggs, (the whites only, whipped.) Mix in to the soaked gela- 
tine, sugar,lemon, pineapple and nutmeg,let stand together 
two hours. When you have bruised the fruit with the 
back of a silver spoon and stirred all thoroughly, pour 
over them at the end of that time the boiling water, and 
stir until the gelatine is dissolved. Strain through 
coarse flannel, squeezing and wringing hard. When al- 
most cold, put in the wine and brandy, cover until quite 
cold; whip in by degrees into the beaten whites. It 
ought to be whisked half an hour, even if you use the 
Dover. Bury in ice to form, having wet the mould with 
cold water. 

Velvet Cream, 

Half a box of gelatine, half a pint of water, one pint of 
cream, three ounces of sugar. Dissolve the gelatine in 
the water, add to it the ci^am and sugar, simmer it over 
the fire ten minutes, stirring it all the time. Strain it, 
when half cold, pour the cream into a glass dish, the bot- 
tom of which is covered with jam of any kind, over 
which is poured a tablespoonful of lemon juice, or a glass 
of Sherry. Then set it away to cool and stiffen. 

Mrs, D. Co wee. 



Chocolate Blanc Monge. 

One quart of milk, half box gelatine, half cup Baker's 
chocolate, one cup sugar. Soak gelatine in a little milk, 
also wet the chocolate with milk. Scald the remaining 
milk, then add gelatine and chocolate. Strain, and while 
scalding hot, put back and scald a little longer. 

Mrs, C. J. Saxe. 

azsEsasEEasHSESESHSESHSEBasESESEsasasasESESEsasasasasasig 



CHOP-STICKS. Ill 

Russian Cream. 

One quart of mi]k, three eggs, yolks and whites beaten 
sepa ately, one cup of white sugar, half box gelatine. 
Dissolve gelatine in half pint warm water, beat sugar and 
yolks of eggs; put milk on to boil, when boiling, add gel- 
atine, sugar, and yolks of eggs, stirring as in custard. 
When it comes to a boil, remove from stove, stir whites 
of eggs in lightly and flavor with vanilla. 

Mrs. C. B. H. 

Tapioca Cream. 

One small teacup of tapioca, soaked over night in a pint 
of milk. In the morning, set one quart of milk to boil, 
stir the yolks of three eggs in the tapioca. When the 
milk comes to a boil, stir, then add tapioca and eggs, 
when it all comes to a boil, stir in the whites of the eggs 
beaten very light. Sugar and flavor to your taste. Put 
on ice and serve cold. 

M. 

A Cheap and Quick Dessert. 

One pint of milk, nine tablespoonfuls of flour, a pinch 
of salt, three eggs beaten very light. Bake in patty pans 
and eat with hot sauce. 

Miss Emma M; Morand. 

Apple Tapioca. 

Take half dozen apples, pare and slice thin, one cup of 
tapioca, previously soaked in water three or four hours, 
two cups of sugar. Form layers in a pan with the ap- 
ples on the bottom, tapioca on top, and sugar with flav- 



112 CHOP-STICKS. 



oring between, cover with water and bake in quick oven 
until tapioca is transparent, and the apples are soft. Set 
away to cool. 

Mrs. C. B. Herkick. 

Currant Puffs. 

Half cup butter, two tablespoonfuls sugar, three eggs, 
one cup milk, two cups flour, three teaspoonfuls Cleve- 
land's Superior Baking Powder, one cup of raisins and 
currants. Steam in buttered cups one-half hour. Liquid 
sauce. 

Mrs. Jos. Hilliman. 

KiTTERY Cakes. 

One pint sweet milk, three eggs, one teaspoonful of 
butter, one small teaspoonful of salt, fifteen tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, bake in kittery cups. 

Miss Annie L. Force. 

Jelly Oranges. 

One dozen fine oranges, one package gelatine, dissolved 
in one cup of cold water, three cups of white sugar, the 
juice of the oranges, and the juice of two lemons, two 
cups of boiling water. Soak the gelatine two hours in 
the cold water, then add sugar, juice of oranges and 
lemons, and boiling water. Cut the oranges in halves, 
and remove the inside with a spoon, taking care not to 
tear the skins. Throw the empty skins in cold water, 
wiping them dry before using. Then fill with the jelly 
and set away to cool. 

Mrs. E. O. H. 



chop-sticks. 113 

German Apple Cakes. 

Peel good fair apples, remove the core with an apple 
corer, and cut in thin slices. Make a batter of two eggs, 
one cup of milk, little salt, and flour for thin batter. Dip 
each slice of apple in the batter and fry in hot lard. Eat 
with butter and powdered sugar. 

Whipped Cream and Almond Kisses. 

Take one pint of sweet cream, sweeten and flavor to 
taste. Whip it to a stiff froth, skimming off the top as 
you whip. When all whipped, pour it in a glass dish pre- 
viously filled with "kisses." 

Mrs. E. O. H. 



^ ICE CHE AM ^• 



Cafe Parfait. 

Half cup strong black coffee, one pint rich cream, half 
cup powdered sugar. Have the coftee perfectly coldj add 
it and the sugar to the cream. Place the dish holding 
the cream in a pan holding ice water. Whip the cream, 
coffee and sugar to a stiff froth, skim off, and when nearly 
all skimmed off, return the liquid portion and whip 
again. Dip this into your freezer, which is previously 
packed as for freezing ice cream, only using more coarse 
salt. Let it stand three or four hours. Turn out as you 
would ice cream. 

[copy-right.] Miss Paulo a. 



114 chop-sticks. 

Fruit Cream. 

One generous pint of milk, two cups of sugar, one 
small tablespoonful of flour, two eggs, two tablespoon- 
fuls of gelatine, one quart of cream, four bananas, half 
pound of candied cherries, (raisins may be used instead 
of cherries, if preferred.) Let the milk come to a boil; 
beat the flour, sugar and eggs together and stir into the 
boiling milk; cook twenty minutes, then add the gelatine 
which has been soaking for one or two hours in water 
enough to cover it; set it away to cool, when cold add the 
cream. Put in freezer; freeze ten minutes, then add the 
fruit and finish freezing. The bananas should be cut in 
slices and if raisins are used they should be seeded. 

Mrs, Joseph H. Knight. 

Walnut Ice Cream, 

One pint of the meat of walnuts, (the American are 
the best,) pounded fine in a mortar, one pint of milk, one 
quart of cream, two small cupfuls of sugar, four eggs^ 
quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. Beat the eggs with one cup 
ful of sugar. Put them and the milk in the double boiler 
and stir constantly until the mixture begins to thicken; 
then add the salt, and put away to cool. When cold, 
add the cream and nut meat, and freeze. 

[copt-kight] Miss Parloa. 

Ice Cream. 

Three quarts of milk, one quart rich cream. To each 
quart of milk, put two tablespoonfuls of arrow-root, pre- 
viously dissolved in a little of the milk, add a pinch of 
salt, two teacups of sugar, or to your taste. Flavor. 

iiasaSESaSaSESESESHSiSESZSESESHEESESHSHSHSESESESaSHSSSaSil 



CHOP-STICKS. 11.") 



Place the milk on the range, and when near the boiling 
point, add the arrow-root and the sugar. Stir constantly 
to prevent scorching. When boiled a few moments, set 
it off to cool. In the meantime, put your cream by it- 
self in the freezer, and with the dasher, beat it light. 
When the milk is cool add the cream to it. Put all to- 
gether in the freezer. Have your ice cracked very fine, 
and use coarse salt; about one part salt to four parts 
cracked ice. If your wish to freeze it in four minutes, 
crack the ice about the size of a thimble. 

Ice Cream, (without cream.) 

Three quarts milk, eight eggs, two cups sugar, three 
tablespoonfuls arrow-root or corn starch, pinch of salt. 
Flavor to taste. Freeze as in last receipt. For Ooffee or 
Chocolate Ice Cream; leave out the eggs. 

Lemon Sherbet. 

The juice of five lemons, one pint of sugar, one quart 
of water, one tablespoonful of gelatine. Soak the gela- 
tine in a little of the water. Boil one cupful of the water 
and dissolve the gelatine in it. Mix together the sugar, 
water, gelatine and lemon jiuce. Turn into the can and 
freeze. This is light and creamy. 

[ COPY-RIGHT.] Miss Pakloa. 

Orange Ice. 

Six oranges, three lemons, one quart of cold water, 

whites of six eggs, twenty-five lumps of cut sugar, two 

• teacupfuls powdered sugar. Easp the outer rind of the 

oranges and lemons on the lumps of sugar, squeeze the 



116 CHOP-STICKS. 



juice of all of them on the lumps of sugar, strain to re- 
move the seeds, and over the particles of pulp and sugar, 
that remain in the strainer, pour a quart of cold water ; 
in a separate dish beat the whites of the eggs with the 
fine sugar, and add to the juice, etc. When very light 
put into your freezer and freeze as you would ice cream. 

M. 

Venetian Cream. 

The whites of twelve eggs, one pound sugar, juice of 
three lemons, one quart water. Stir the sugar and lemon 
juice together, pour in the water, lastly the whites. 
Freeze in an ice cream freezer. 

Mrs, C. B. Hale. 

Vanilla Ice Cream. 

One quart of cream, whipped light, one pint of milk, 
sweeten and flavor to taste; then freeze. 

Mrs. E. O. H. 



-^ c 



Angel Cake, 

Tlie whites of eleven eggs, one and one half tumblers 
of granulated sugar, one tumbler of flour, one teaspoon- 
f ul of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of almond or vanilla. 
Beat the eggs to a stifl" froth and add the sugar, (sifted 
once) stirring lightly, then add the flavoring. Sift your 

iSEHEsasasasasasasasESEsasEsasasasasasasEsaEasasasasasas© 



Ea5SSZ5SSHSHSE5ZSilSHSE5HSZ5H5HSE5H5a5HSHSE5H5HSZEH5ESa5li 

CHOP-STICKS. 11 T 



flour four times, then measure, add the cream of tartar, and 
sift once more and stir into the eggs and sugar. Bake 
forty minutes in a moderate oven. Do not grease the 
tin, and when taken from the oven turn upside down to 
cool. A tin with a tube in the centre is better. Frost 
the loaf. 

Mrs. R. S. N. 

Golden Jumbles. 

To be made with Angel Cake. Two cups of sugar, one 
cup of butter, half cup of milk, yolks of eleven eggs, 
two and one- quarter cups flour, three even teaspoonfuls 
Cleveland's Superior Baking Powder. Bake in drip- 
ping pan, and when hot, dip a cloth in milk and moisten 
it, then sprinkle with pulverized sugar. 

Misjs Mary M. Qukal, 

Coffee Cake, 

One cup sugar, half cup butter, two eggs, half cup mo- 
lasses, half cup strong cofi'ee, two cups flour, one cup 
raisins, one teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful each of 
cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg. Bake in square tins, 
and cut in squares. 

Mrs, L, C. Fisk. 

Cream Cake. 

Three-quarters cup of sugar, quarter cup of butter, 
half cup of milk, yolks of three eggs, one and one -half 
teaspoonfuls Cleveland's Superior Baking Powder, one and 
one-half cups flour. 

For Cream, 

One cup thick cream, four tablespoonfuls of sugar 
beaten to a froth, and put between each layer. 

BE5ES2SaSHSHSHSZ5a5ESS5ESa5SSHSS5aSHSE5a5HSHSESHSHSHS250 



lis CHOP-STICKS. 



Fig Cake. 
Two-thirds cup butter, two cups sugar^ four eggs well 
beaten, one cup of milk, three or three and one-half cups 
flour, three teaspoonfuls Cleveland's Superior Baking 
Powder, Mixture to put bet ween layers : One pound of 
figs chopped very fine, two cups of suiiar and half cup of 
water. Let boil two minutes. Then stir this, placing the 
dish in a pan of cold w^ater^ stirring constantly, until 
creamed. 

MkS. D. COWEE 

Snow Balls. 

Two cups of suaar, one and one-half cups of butter, one 
cup sweet milk, three cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls 
Cleveland's Superior Baking Powder, whites of five eggs. 
Bake in deep, square tins. The day following, cut in 
two-inch squares, taking the outside off so as to leave it 
all white, take each piece on a fork and frost upon all 
sides, and roll in freshly grated cocoanut. This is a 
delicious as w^ell as novel cake. 

Mrs R. S. N. 

English Walnut Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, three-quarters cup of butter, three 
cups of sifted flour, one cup of cold water, four eggs, one 
teaspoonful soda, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar, two 
cupfuls kernels of English walnuts, added last of all. 

Mrs M. K. Gillespie. 

Feather Cake. 

Two cups sugar, one cup milk, half cup butter, three 
eggs, t^vo and one-half cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls 
Cleveland's Superior Baking Powder. Flavor to taste. 

Mrs. Mary E. Ingalls. 



chop-sticks. 119 

Lemon Jelly Cake. 

Cake, for one loaf. One cup of sugar, one-third cup 
of butter, one -half cup of milk, one and one-half cups of 
flour, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of Cleveland's Supe- 
rior BakingPowder, yolk of one egg, whites of three eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth. Filling the grated rind and juice of 
one lemon, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of water, two ta- 
blespoonfuls of flour, yolks of two eggs. Boil ten minutes. 

Miss Clara Moeev. 

Golden Cake. 

Yolks of fourteen eggs, two lemons, one pound of 
sugar, three-quarters pound butter, one pound flour, one 
teaspoonful of saleratus, dissolved in a little milk. 

Mrs. B D. 

CocoANUT Cake. 

One pound of sugar, half pound of butter, three-quart- 
ers of a pound of flour, five eggs, one cocoanut, stirred in 
the cake. 

Mrs. S. T. Cary. 

Fruit Cookies. 

Two cups of raisins, one cup of butter, two cups of 
sugar, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sour milk, one 
tablespooniul of ground cinnamon, one tablespoonful of 
mace, one teaspoonful of soda, flour to roll. 

Miss Mary M. Qukal. 

Jumbles. 

Three eggs, two cups sugar, one and one-half cups but- 
ter, one cup of water, three teaspoonfuls of Cleveland's 



©SHSBSHEH5ZS5a5SS5Z5H5HSt[513ZSH5iZ5B5ZS2aZSSaHS2SHSia5H5H!l 

120 CHOP-STICKS. 



Superior Baking Powder, as little flour as possible; roll, 
cut any shape you like. Sprinkle with suga,r bake in a 
quick oven. 

Mrs. p. W. Converse. 

Vanilla Cookies. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of shortening, (half lai'd and 
half butter,) two eggs, four teaspoonfuls of vanilla, one 
and one- half teaspoonfuls of Cleveland's Superior Baking 
Powder. Roll thin and bake to a light brown. 

Mrs. Beach. 

Variety Cake. 

Three cups sugar, two cups raisins, (seeded and set one 
side, ) six eggs, one cup of milk, one cup of butter, four 
cups of flour, four teaspoonfuls of Cleveland's Superior 
Baking Powder. Take out one third of this mixture, and 
add the raisins, and one teaspoonful of cloves, and two tea- 
spoonfuls of cinnamon. 

Miss S. Alice Podmore. 

Fig Cake. 

Three eggs, one-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one- 
half cup milk,two cups flour, two teaspoonfuls Cleveland's 
Superior Baking Powder. Bake in three cakes. 

Fig Jelly. 

One pound flgs, chopped, one cup sugar, one and one- 
half cups boiling water, boil until it jellies, stir while it is 
cooking, spread between the layers. 

Mrs. C. B. Hale, 



chop-sticks. 121 

Almond Cake, 

One cup sugar, two cups flour, three-quarters cup of 
butter, half cup of sweet milk, yolks of six eggs, and one 
whole one, three teaspoonfuls Cleveland's Superior Bak- 
ing Powder, one pound almonds, blanched and shced, 
and mixed with cake, saving a few to put on top of icing, 
two teaspoonfuls extract of almond. 

Mbs. W. Jkrome Green. 

Shrewsberry Cake. 

One cup of butter, three cups of sugar, four eggs, one 
teaspoonful of Cleveland's Superior Baking Powder, one 
cupful of milk, one teaspoonful of vanilla, one and one- 
half pints flour. Rub the butter and sugar to a white 
cream, then add the eggs, the baking powder in the flour, 
sifted. 

Mrs. M. E. Hubbelu 

Orange Jelly Cake. 

Take grated rind and juice of one large orange, yolk 
of one egg, two-third, cup of sugar, very small piece 
butter. Then take one heaping tablespoonful of 
common starch and dissolve it in as little water as you 
can, and pour on one teacupful of boiling water, and stir 
Until it thickens. Stir the orange mixture into starch 
and set away to cool, while you make the cake same as 
for any layer cake. Bake in three jelly tins, and spread 
the orange jelly between. Frost the top and slice an 
orange very thin and lay over it. 

Mrs. W. G. J — ■ — N. 



be5e5a5h5aseeh5ese5h5ese5hshszse5zsz5s525skhese5hshsa5b 
122 chop-sticks. 

Sponge Cake. 

Six eggs, two cups pulverized sugar; beat this, in a large 
bowl with a wire egg beater, twenty minutes, or until the 
sponge nearly fills the bowl, then add the juice and grat- 
ed rind of two lemons, and two cups of sifted flour; just 
stir enough to mix well, but do not beat after the flour is 
put in. Bake in lar^e pans lined with white paper. 
Have a moderately hot oven, being careful not to open 
the doors too often. 

Mks. H. C. Smith. 

Cream Cake. 

Whites of four eggs, two cups of sugar, one cup of 
butter, one cup milk, three teaspoonfuls of Cleveland's Su- 
perior Baking Powder. Bake in layers. 

For Cream. 

Pint of cream, half a cup of pulverized sugar, flavor 
with vanilla; whip the cream to a stiff froth, add the 
sugar and flavoring. 

Mes. E. Held ex. 

Sponge Cake. 

Twelve eggs, their weight in sugar, the weight of seven 
in flour, the grated rind and juice of one lemon, one ta- 
blespoonful of vinegar. Beat the eggs separately, 
then add the sugar to the yolks, then the lemon juice, 
then the whites, lastly the flour. Must not be beaten 
much after the flour is added, but stirred lightly; just be- 
fore putting in pan, add the vinegar. 

Mrs. W. J. Stevenson. 

EiaSESZSaSHSHSESESHSaSHSaSESHSESaSESESZSHSZSZSHSZSEFHSaEIS) 



CHOP-STICKS. 12o 

Chocolate Cake. 

Half cup of butter, two cups of sugar, two cups flour, 
half cup milk, two eggs, three teaspooufuls vanilla, one 
teaspoonful soda, one-third cake of chocolate, dissolved 
in not quite half cup of warm water. 

Miss C. H. Room e 

Plum Cake. 

Two pounds of currants, two pounds of raisins, cut in 
half, one pound of butter, one pound of sugar, ten eggs, 
two ounces of cinnamon, half pint of brandy, four nut- 
megs, teacupful of molasses, flour to stiffen it. Bake 
three and one-half hours in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. George A. Stone. 

Fruit Cake. 

Three pounds of raisins, three pounds of curi-ants, one 
pound of citron, one pound of butter, one pound of brown 
sugar, one pound of flour, ten eggs, half pint of brandy, 
one and one-half teacupfuls of molasses, half ounce of 
nutmeg, half ounce cloves, half ounce of cinnamon, one tea- 
spoonful soda. Bake three hours in a slow" oven. Roll the 
fruit in flour. 

Mrs. W. C. Daboll. 

Court Cake. 

Four eggs, two cups sugar, one cup of butter, one cup 
buttermilk, one-half teaspoonful saleratus, one pound of 
fruit, one-half nutmeg, three cups flour. 

Mrs. McMasters. 

Sponge Cake. 

The whites of eight eggs, yolks of six eggs, one pound 
sugar, half pound flour, soda size of a pea, cream tartar 

EEHSSSHSraSHaHHHSHSHSlSrHSHSHSHSHSHdZSlSHS^SaSHSHSHffaSHSHIl 



124 CHOP-STICKS, 



twice the quantity, rind and juice of a small lemon. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and add the 
yolks, sugar and rind of the lemons, which must be beat- 
en to a cream, then add the flour, soda, cream of tartar, 
and the juice of lenion. Bake in an oven the same as for 
bread, 

Mus. Beach. 

Ginger Wafers. 

Oue cup of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of molas- 
ses, half cup of cold coffee, one teaspoonful of soda, one 
tablespoonful of ginger, and flour enough to make a 
stiff dough; knead it hard, and roll very thin, bake in a 
quick oven. 

Mr3, R, Peckham. 

Ginger Snaps, 

One pint molasses^ one cup of sugar, one cup of butter, 
one tablespoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful soda, a little 
salt. Mix stiff, roll thin,, and bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs, Jo&. H, Knigut. 

Mrs. Eldridge's Ginger Cookies. 

Three teacupfuls of molasses, one of shoi'tening, six: 
teaspoonfuls of soda, one of alum, ginger and cinnamon 
to taste, soda and alum each dissolved in half cup boiling 
water, mix very soft. Mix soda first, then alum, short- 
ening last. 

Miss Moore's Molasses Cake, 

One cup molasses, half cup sugar, either brown or 
white, ouQ egg, two-thirds cup butter, one cup of either 
sour or sweet milk, one teaspoonful of soda, ginger and 

EsiSHsasaHaHasaEasHsasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasasaEB 



CHOP-STICKS. 125 



a little cinnamon, flour enough to make a soft batter, 
pour it in square tins, so that it will be about an inch 
thick when done. 

Doughnuts. 

One pint sweet milk, two quarts flour, two cups pow- 
dered sugar, three eggs, two large tablespoonfuls Cleve- 
land's Superior Baking Powder, butter size of small egg, 
melt it. Put the baking powder in the flour. Drop from 
a spoon in hot lard. 

P. 

Crullers. 

One pound fine sugar, six ounces of butter, which must 
be melted, ten eggs, one nutmeg. Flour enough to roll 
out. This makes a good many. 

M, 

Molasses Gingerbread. 

One cup hot water, piece of butter half size of an egg, 
one cup of molasses, one teaspoonful ginger, one tea- 
spoonful saleratus, one teaspoonful cloves, two cups flour. 

Mrs. McM asters. 

Delicious Soft Gingerbread. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup of 
butter, three cups of flour, three eggs, one tablespoonful of 
ginger, one of cinnamon, one teaspooful cloves, one wine 
glass of brandy, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a cup 
of milk, to be added the last thing before baking. Mix the 
butter and sugar to a cream, then add the molasses, eggs 
flour and spices, lastly the milk. 

Mrs. R. S. N. 

l!E5HS2SHSH5a5S525H5ESH5H5HSH5HSH5aSH5H5H5aSZ5H5HSE5H5H5S 



1-^ CHOP-STICKS. 



Crullers. 
One and one-half cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, one 
egg, six small teaspoonfuls Cleveland's Superior Baking 
Powder, piece of butter the size of a walnut, nutmeg, and a 
httle salt. Make in round balls, fry and roll in sugar. 

Mrs. K. S. N. 

Soft Gingerbread. 
One cup molasses, half cup of butter, one egg, three- 
quarters of a cup of boiling water, poured on two tea- 
spoonfuls of soda, one tablespoonful of ginger, one and 
one-half cups flour. 

Mrs. L. C. Fisk. 

Fruit Cake. 

Three pounds of raisins, three pounds of currants, one 
pound citron, one pound butter, one pound of flour, one 
pound of sugar, ten eggs, one teacupful of molasses, spice 
to the taste. Take part of the flour to mix with the fruit, 
four teaspoonfuls Cleveland's Superior Baking Powder! 
Bake for five hours in a slow oven. 

Miss Minnie Seymour, 

Good Cake. 
One cup of sugar, two eggs, two cups of flour, half cup 
of mflk, half cup of butter, two teaspoonfuls Cleveland's 
Superior Baking Powder. Take part of the cake and 
grate m chocolate. Make frosting of grated chocolate 
and put between the layers, first a light and then a dark 
one. 

Mrs. R, Seymour. 



giHSHSESSSZSHSHSHSESSSESESaSZSHSZ5HS£5HSZ5HSE5HSSEHSHE2Sa 
CHOP-STICKS. 127 



-^ 



Parker House Rolls, 
One quart flour, one cup milk, half cup potato yeast, 
one tablespoonful lard, one tablespoonful sugar. Place 
all the ingredients together, and let it stand three or four 
hours, without mixing, then mould, and let rise two or 
three hours more. Make into rolls. Let them stand about 
two hours. Bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. K McChesney. 

Waffles. 

One quart of milk, four eggs, one ounce of butter, half 
a nutmeg, a little salt, one cup of yeast, flour to make as 
stiff as pancakes, one teaspoonful of soda, raise four or 

five hours. 

Mrs. Bishop. 

Laplanders. 
One pint of milk, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls melted 
butter, pinch of salt, a pint of sifted flour. Bake in oven. 

Steamed Brown Bread. 
Five cups Indian meal, three cups of wheat flour, one 
cup molasses, two cups butter- milk, two cups sweet milk, 

one teaspoonful soda; steam three hours. 

Mrs. Daboll. 



12s chop-sticks. 

Indian Bread. 

Two cups of meal, one cup of flour, two cups of sweet 
milk, one cup of sour, two eggs, three teaspoonfuls of 
Cleveland's Superior Baking Powder^ half a cup of sugar, 
a little salt. 

Mks H. S. 

Bread Puffs. 

If the wheat bread is light enough, for the oven, at 
breakfast time, have ready some hot lard in a deep kettle^ 
and with the fingers pull out the dough, very thin, and cut 
in diamond shaped pieces. Drop these in the hot lard 
and fry like doughnuts. 

Mrs. E. O. II. 

Cream Muffins. 

One quart of sweet milk, (half cream if you can get it), 
one heaping quart of flour, six eggs, one tablespoonful 
butter, and the same of lard, melted together. Beat the 
eggs light, the yolks and whites separately, add the milk, 
with a little salt, then the shortening, lastly the flour, 
stirring in hghtly. Bake immediately, in well greased 
rings, half filled with the batter. Your oven should be 
hot, and the muffins sent to table as soon as they are tak- 
en up. 

Mrs. C. B. Haj.e. 

Muffins or Waffles. 

Three eggs, one cup of milk, four or five tablespoonfuls 
of Cleveland's Superior Baking Powder, butter the size of 
an English walnut. Separate your eggs, beat each sepa- 
rately and very light, and then thoroughly together. 
Put the baking powder in one quart of flour, add a pinch 



CHOP-STICKS. 12t< 

-of salt, sift these together. After sifting^ cut the butter 
all through it, with a knife, as for pie crust. Then stir this 
into the milk and eggs, (previously mixed together.) 
Bake immediately in oven in rings, in a dripping pan, 
warm in oven before putting in batter in rings. Cook 
quickly, fourteen minutes. 

P. 

Gems. 
One cup sweet milk, one cup Hour, half cup Indian 
meal, one egg, three teaspoonfuls Cleveland's Superior 
Baking Powder, one teaspoonful lai-d or butteis salt, half 
Knip sugar. 

M&s. E. S. Strait. 

Corn Bread. 

One teacupful of yellow corn meal, two teacupfuls 
wheat flour, half pint sweet milk, half teacupful sugar, 
three eggs, two ounces butter, two teaspoonfuls Cleve- 
land's Superior Baking Powder. First mix meal, flour, 
and butter, add sugar and baking powder; next, drop in 
the centre the yolks X)f the eggs, let the milk boil and 
pour over it slowly, beat the whites to a stiff froth, add 
to the mixture, stirring very little ^ bake in quick oven. 

Mrs. E, McChesnky. 

Graham Muffins. 

Three well beaten eggs, one pint of new milk, one cap 
of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of 
vsugar, one tablespoonful melted butter, graham enough to 
make a stiff batter^, half fill earthen cups, put them in an 
old pan, set in oven, and bake one hoiir. Be sure and 
sift the graham flour before using. 

M. 



180 chop-sticks. 

Pop-overs, 

One cxip flour, one cup milk, one egg,a little salt. Mix. 
all well together, fill cups two-thirds full and bake. 

Mrs. W. G. J. 

Breakfast Caee. 

Two cui>s flour,, two tea&poonfuls Cleveland's Superior 
Baking Powder, one egg, one tablespoonf ul sugar, a little 
salt, about half cup of milk ; bake in a moderate oven. 

Mrs, J. D. Wyman. 

Wheat Pancakes, 

Three cups of sour milk, or sour buttermilk, one tea- 
spoonful soda, sifted and stirred fast into the milk, three 
cups of flour, little pinch of salt, two eggs, beaten very 
light, before adding to the batter, 

P. 

Graham Muffins, 

Two cnps sour milk, half cup butter, quarter cup mo- 
lasses,- four eggSy one teaspoonful soda; make it a little 
thicker than pancakes and bake in a range. Sweet milk 
will answer with Cleveland's Superior Baking Powder, 

Mrs, Malloky, 

French Rolls, 

Wanii an ounce French butter in a gill of milk, add a 
large tablespoonf ul of yeast, and a little salt. Sift one 
pound of fiour into a pan, pour in, and stir well, the milk, 
and let the dough rise in a warm place, covering it with 
a thick cloth. When light, knead well, and form into 
rolls; put these in a well floured pan, in a warm place to 
rise. Bake in a quick oven. 

P. 



il5H5aSSSia^H2SaSi52S^a2aHSa5iaFESHSH^HaB5H^llS2S"HSHSBS2STESBB 

CHOP-STICKS. l;',l 

Wheat Miifpins. 

One pint sweet milk, one pint flour, good measure, 
three eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, one table- 
spoonful shorteninii", little salt. Put in hot tins and bake 
quickl^^ 

Mrs. Mary E. Tx^^alls. 

Sally Lunn Muffins. 

One quart of flour, one tablespoonful sUi2:ar, one tea- 
spoonful salt, three teaspoonfuls of Cleveland's Superior 
taking Powder, one tablespoonful lard, one egg, one and 
one-quarter pints of milk. Sift flour, sugar, salt and 
baking powder tosrether, rub in the lard, cold, add the 
beaten eggs and milk; bake ill muffin pans, fifteen min- 
utes, 

MkS. HlTBHGLL. 

Brown Bread. 

To one pint of sour milk, add one teaspoonful of soda, 
or saleratus, dissolved in boiling water, one teacupful of 
molasses, a piece of butter the size of an egg, also a little 
salt. Mix well together, then add one pint of sifted 
Indian meal, and one pint of sifted flour. Put into a 
two quart basin, and steam two hours, then put in an 
oven and bake for half an hour. 

Cleveland Tea Cake. 

One tablespoonful of butter mixed to a cream, with a 
cup of powdered sugar, three eggs, well beaten, one cup 
of sweet milk, three teaspoonfuls Cleveland's Superior 
Baking Powder, one quart of flour. Bake in pans twenty 
or thirty minutes. Cut at the table, eat with butter. 

P. 



132 chop- sticks. 

Graham Gem5, 

One and one-half pints sour milk^ two eggs^ one tea- 
spoonful soda, and tablespoonful melted butter, Graham 
to make a stiff batter^ fill gem pans and bake in a hot 
oven. 

Mrs, Makv E, Ix<;ali.s 

Fkej^ch Buns. 

Rub a piece of lard the size of a walnut thoroughly in 
three teacupfuls of sifted flour. Boil one teacupful of 
niilk,and when it is cold, mix into it three-quarters of a cup 
yeast, half teaspoonful of salt, half teaspoonful of sugar. 
Now make in the middle of the flour a small hole, and 
pour the above mixture into it, then cover and let stand 
over night. In the mornings mould them in small rolls^ 
the size of your two fingers, let them stand in the pans., 
fully an hour. Bake in a quick oven^ fifteen minutes. 

P. 

"Wells House ^' Kolls. 

Scald one pint of milk at noon, and let it stand until 
night. Kub half cup of butter, in two quarts of flour^ 
make a hole in the centre of the flour, and pour in the 
milk, half cup of yeast, half tumbler of cold water, three 
teaspoonfuls of white sugar, a little salt, let it stand until 
next day, then mould as for bread ; let it rise, then make 
in rollsy let them rise again and bake. 

MUFEINS. 

Three ctips of flour,- two teaspoonfuls of Cleveland's 
Superior Baking Powder, half teaspoonful of salt, two 
eggs, milk enough to mstke soft batter, bake in rings. 

Mrs. M. K. Gillespie. 

ijasasEsssEsasEsasasEsasasasESHSEsasEEHHEsaszsasHsisaEis© 



iESaSHSH52SH5SSHSH5HSE5HSHSHSHSa5HSESiiSH5E5HSBSS£HSEEH5B 

chop-sticks. 1;3s 

Corn Griddle Cakes, 

One dozen ears of corn, four eggs, half cup of flour, 
one teaspoonful of salt; grate the corn, add eggs, beaten 
very Ught, and flour, fry in hot lard; if the corn is not 
juicy, add niiik or cream. 

Mrs. Charles Bishop. 

Neavport Rolls, 

Three pints of flour, butter size of walnut, three eggs, 
gill of yeast, warm milk enough to mix well; rub the 
butter into the flour, add the eggs, the yeast, and milk ; 
make in the evening for breakfast. 

Mrs. J, ]VL Avbby. 

For two Loaves of Bread. 

Boil, and mash very flue, three medium sized pota^ 
toes. Make a sponge by pouring over potatoes one quart 
of warm water, not hot. One tablespoonful sugar, one of 
salt, half a National yeast cake. Stir in flour to make a 
stiff batter. In the morning put sufficient flour into a 
laige pan, and pour in the sponge and mix thoroughly, 
set in a warm place to rise. If by pressing the dough 
from the sides of the pan, it has a spongy appeai-ance, 
it is light enough to mould into loaves. Divide, and put 
into pans and let rise again. Put into hot oven before 
it begins to crack open. 

N. Y. C. 



CKLKS ^ 



Tomato Catsup. 

Half bushel of ripe tomatoes, broken, boiled, and 
worked through a wire sieve, with a wooden spoon, until 

reEHSZSH5HSZ5HSE5ESa5ESHSESHSESH5HSHS2Sa5E5a5HSH5H5H5H5B 



1 34 CHOP-STICKS. 

nothing but the skins and seeds, remain; add one ounce 
ground cloves^ one ounce ground allspice, one ounce pep- 
per corns. Boil these very slowly one hour in an open 
kettle. Then turn it out in an ear'then jai-. Vv^hen cool, add 
one pint of fine salt, one quart bottle of port wine, and 
half bottle of pepper sauce, with the peppers in, and stir 
well together. The next day, bottle it, and seal the corks. 
Keep in cool cellar, good for foui- or five years. This re- 
cipe will make about seventeen quart bottles of catsup. 

P. 

Chow Chow. 

One peck of green tomatoes, one peck cauliflower, half 
peck small onions, six dozen small cucumbers, half dozen 
green peppers, half dozen small red peppers, one large 
seed cucumber, peeled and sliced in large pieces. Slice all 
these, and sprinkle over with salt, and let stand for 
twenty -four hours. Next day, boil in weak vinegar, let 
come to a boil, then drain ofi" and cover with dressing, 
boiled separately. Dressing: One gallon strong vinegar, 
half pound ground mustard, one ounce each of ground 
cinnamon, white mustard, and celery seed, half ounce of 
yellow tumeric, half pint grated horse-radish, two cups 
sugar. Boil all until thick, then pour over the vegetables. 

Mrs. L. C. Fisk. 

Mrs. Eldredc4e's French Pickle. 

One peck cucumbers, three onions chopped fine, and 
mixed with salt, let stand over night; in the morning, 
drain well, and add two quarts of vinegar, and one quart 
water, boil fifteen minutes, then boil again and add two 
tablespoonfuls of all kinds of spices, quarter pound white 



CHOP-STICKS. 135 

mustard seed, quarter pound celery seed, two tablespoon- 
fuls of black pepper, two pounds of sugar, three pints of 
vinegar, boil fifteen minutes slowly. 

Oil Mangoes, 

After taking out the seeds put the mangoes in salt and 
water, until they become yellow, then scald them until 
green. For the filling, take quarter of a pound strong 
ground ginger, half pound grated horse-radish, one pound 
mustard seed, half pound garlic, chopped fine, half ounce 
ground black pepper, two ounces tumeric, two ounces cloves 
half ounce mace. Mix the ingredients together with a 
pint of made mustard, and as much salad oil as will make 
it into a paste. Cover the mangoes when filled, with hot 
vinegar. 

Mrs. E. R. Edwards. 

Sweet Tomato Pickles. 
One peck of sliced green tomatoes, four onions shced, 
one teacupful of sugar, one tablespoonfiil of cloves, one 
tablespoonful cassia buds, one tablespoonful of white 
mustard seed. Sprinkle the sliced tomatoes and onions 
with salt, and let remain over night; pour off the water 
and cover the whole with vinegar, then boil until tender, 
then put in two sHced red peppers. 

Mrs. Eva E. Barky. 

Plum Catsup. 
Five pounds plums, two pounds sugar, two tablespoon- 
f uls ground cloves, two tablespoonfuls ground cinnamon, 
one teaspoonful pepper, half pint vinegar. 

Miss S. Alice Podmore. 



1 3(i CHOP-STICKS. 

Spiced Currants, 

Seven pounds of currants, four pounds of sugar, one 
and one- half pints of vinegar, one tablespoonful cloves, one 
tablespoonful of cinnamon. Simmer two hours 

Mrs. K. Peckha.m. 

Grape Catsup. 

Seven pounds of grapes, three and one-half pounds 
brown sugar, one dessert spoonful of allspice, one dessert 
spoonful of cloves, one dessert spoonful of cinnamon, one 
pint of vinegar. Strain through a wire sieve and boil un- 
til half the juice of the grapes is taken up. 

Mrs. E, Beldex. 

Green Tomato Pickles. 

One peck of green tomatoes, six onions, half a pound of 
sugar, one ounce of ground mustard, one ounce of whole 
cloves, half an ounce of gin.uer, half an ounce of ground 
pepper, quarter of a pound of mustard seed, one oUnce of 
whole allspice; slice the tomatoes and onions, put in the 
kettle a layer of tomatoes and one of spices until they are 
all in, cover with good vinegar, and boil slowly two or 
three hours, stir from the bottom to prevent burning; 

Mrs. W. G. J n. 

Chili Sauce. 

Thirty-six ripe tomatoes, six large green peppers, four 
onions, one cup of sugar, half cup of vinegar, one table- 
spoonful of cinnamon, one of cloves, two of salt; cut the 
whole in small pieces, and boil until the mixture can be 
put through a cullender. When strained, add spices; sim- 
mer one hour and bottle. 

Mrs. R. Peckham. 



chop-sticks. 1st 

Pickled Peaches. 

Four pounds of yellow C sujrar, seven pounds of fair' 
ripe peaches, one pint cider vinegar, one tablespoonful of 
whole cloves, cinnamon and mace; put the vine,ij;ar on the 
sugar, let it dissolve, then bring to a boil, and skim, add 
spices. Skin the peaches, this is easily done by putting 
them for a few minutes into boiling water, put them a 
few at a time into the boiling syrup, and just scald through 
put up in preserving cans, 

R 

PicKLEB Peaches, 

Three pounds of peaches, four pounds of sugar, pint of 
vinei2;ar, spices to taste; make a syrup of sugar and 
put in a few peaches at a time, cook them until a fork 
w^ill enter them easily, skim them out and put in more 
fruit; when all are cooked boil down the syrup quite thick 
add vinegar, and put on the fruit. This is also an excel- 
lent recipe for pears, 

Mrs. R. Peckham, 

Chili Sauce. 

Eighteen ripe tomatoes, four green peppers, two onions, 
one cup of sugar, one cup of vinegar, one tablespoonful 
of salt, one teaspoonful of allspice, cloves, cinnamon. 
Boil two hours. 

Chutney Sauce. 

Four dozen large ripe tomatoes, six large green pep- 
pers, eight large onions, four tablespoonfuls mustard, 
four tablespoonfuls of salt, three tablespoonfuls black 
pepper, three tablespoonfuls of ground cloves, one quart 
of cider vinegar. Boil two hours and strain. Mash all 



138 CHOP-STICKS. 

through the cullender except the skins. Add one bottle 
of Worcestershire Sauce, when cold. Chop onions and 
peppers, peel and cut up tomatoes. Bottle and seal corks. 
Keep in a cool place, 

M. 

Choppei> Pickles. 

Chop half peck green tomatoes^ one dozen large cu- 
cumbers, two small heads of cabbage, two large onionSr 
six red ]>eppers; add half pint of salt, drain four to six 
hours; add one teacupful of sugar, half pound of white 
mustard seed, half pound yellow mu&tard seed, coffee cup 
of grated horse-radish, half ounce of celery seed. Cover 
with vinegar and scald, 

Mrs. S, p. Ostrandeb, 



^ CANDY ^ 



French English WaLNXTT Creams'. 

Take the meats from two pounds of English Walnuts^ 
so that they will be in halves. When they are ready, beat 
the whites of two fresh eggs very light, then stir into them 
thoroughly two tablespoonfuls of cold water. Now stir 
in very slowly two pounds of confectioner's sugar, (be 
careful that there are no lumps,) flavor with vanilla, (a 
few drops of rose with it is nice.) Take in your left hand 
one of the meats, and on the point of a knife, (right hand) 
take of the sugar mixture^ about half the size of a hick- 

flaiaSEHlSESESSSESHSESaSHSaSESEEHSESESaSESaSSSaSHSHSESEEaE© 



CHOP-STICKS. 139 

oiy nut; place this on the half meat, then on this the 
other half meat, press together gently; place on a large 
plate to harden, which will take about three or four 
hours. 

G. 

CocoANUT Balls. 

Grate the cocoanut, and let dry over night in the oven. 
Take the weight of the cocoanut in sugar, mix well with 
the white of one egg. Make into balls with your fingers. 
Grease a tin, and place the balls on it, at a little distance 
from each other, and let them brown lightly, in a very 
quick oven. One cocoanut makes fifty balls. 

Mrs. Carpenter. 

Taffy Candy. 

Two cupfuls brown sugar, half cupful butter, four 
tablespoonfuls molasses, two tables poonfuls water, two 
tablespoonfuls vinegar. Boil fifteen minutes. 

Macaroons. 

Blanch one-quarter pound of almond meats, pounded 
fine, four spoonfuls of lemon water, whites of four eggs, 
beaten, one pound sugar. Mix all together. Bake on 
buttered paper. 

Mrs. Carpenter. 

Chocolatk Caramels. 

One cup grated Baker's Chocolate, two cups granulat- 
ed sugar, one teaspoonful of flour, half cup of milk, 
pinch of salt, one cap of molasses, piece of butter the size 
of an egg. 

M. 



iiZSHSSSHSESHEEEESaSSSSESEHSaSHSHSHSEEiaSSSFESEESaSEESSSS^ 

140 chop-sticks. 

Millaird's Caramels, 

One cup of molasses, two cups of brown sugar, ono 
one-half cups grated chocolate, one-half cup of milk, 
butter the size of a walnut, tablespoonful of vanilla, 
boil together the molasses and sugar, mix the milk and 
chocolate together, and add to the boiling sugar and mo- 
lasses. When nearly done, add butter and vanilla. Try 
as molasses candy. 

, Miss Nellie S. Avery. 

Molasses Candy. 

Two cupfuls of molasses, one cupful of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of vinegar, a piece of butter the size of a walnut 
After takinu" it off the stove, stir in one teaspoonful of 
saleratus. If nuts are added, put the nuts on several 
buttered plates and pour on them the candy. 

Mrs. Beach. 



^ DOMESTIC HYGIKMi; ^ 



" Health is heautiful. Disease is Kideous. Health is hene' 
ficial. Disease is harmful. Health comes from God. Di- 
sease is the result of sin. The science of health is therefore 
heautiful and beneficial; and it glorifies God hy raising hu- 
manity to its i^roper level. ''^ 

The Air op our Dwellings, 

The average amount of oxygen consumed by a person 
in health, when in repose, is half a cubic inch with every 
respiration, or fifty thousand cubic inches every day. 

8SL5aSE15HSHSaSSSaHH5E5ESE5HSH5HSHSESZ5a5a5S5a5a5H5a5cLSt!SliJ 



Eia5S5HSES25SSHSHSHSHSESE5ESI!SE£ESE5EEHSZ5rH5Z5Z£E£E5EEH50 

CHOP-STICKS. 141 

Now as oxygen constitutes but one-fifth of the volume of 
the air, a siuiijle individual renders not less than two hun- 
dred and fifty tliousand cubic inches of air unrespirable 
every twenty-four hours. The fallacies in regard to 
ventilation are, 

First. That it needs no special attention. 

Second. That the poison of respired air is carbonic 
acid, (it is the lack of oxygen.) 

Third. That the most impure air accumulates near the 
floor of the room. 

Fourth. That the outlet for impure air is best at the 
top of the room; and inlet for pure air at the bottom. 

Temperature, 

The temperature of our dwellings should be as uniform 
as possible. With the aid of a good thermometer, so reg- 
ulate the artificial heat that it is never below sixty-five 
nor above seventy -two degrees. 

Disinfection. 

In all diseases of a contagious or an infectious tyi)e, 
thorough disinfection should preceed, attend, and follow 
treatment. The best disinfectants are not those of the 
strongest odor. Carbolic Acid a has much less disinfecting 
property than many other so called germ destroyers, its 
virtue seems to be "the vile smell that forces open 
doors and windows to let fresh air in." Half a pound of 
ground sulphur sprinkled on a piece of sheet iron, heated 
to redness, will give off fumes of sulphurous acid, a most 
thorough and penetrating deodorizer. Pieces of lime, the 
size of a large orange quickly slacked by pourin.oj a dip- 
perful of hot water over it, is a valuable disinfectant; in 
membraneous and diphtheretic croup, it promptly aids in 



^SH5HS[H5H!r2ZS255H5E5H5H5ESH5HS^ESaS5H5H5H5HSHSH5ESH515H!i 

142 CHOP-STICKS. 

removing the membrane. The Copperas, or Sulphate of 
Iron, as it is called in the drug stores, is an effective purifier 
of sewers, sinks and cess-pools. Three pounds to a large 
pail of water. Use a dipperful daily, and it will keep 
such originators of disease sweet and clean. For sick 
room disinfection, " Pratt's Chlorides " and the "Bromo 
Chloralum" are to be preferred. Towels, spoons, hand- 
kerchiefs and even the bed linen, when used by infect- 
ious persons, should be kept exclusively for the use of 
the patient, and be regularly soaked in a solution of the 
"chlorides." 

Baths. 

The best bath is the tonic bath of the morning, with or 
without the addition of Brigg's Sea Salt. The tempera- 
ture of the water should be adapted to the re-active 
powers of the bather. A bath without the glow of re- action 
is more harmful than beneficial. A teaspoonful of Pul- 
verized Borax, or a teaspoonful of Ammonia in a wash 
bowl of tepid water, makes a good cleansing bath for the 
sick. 

Sleep. 

Bleeping rooms should be the best rooms in the house. 
Admit the air freely, but avoid drafts. Regulate the bed- 
covering, to the changes in temperature. Avoid stoves in 
sleeping rooms; and if kerosene lamps must be used, burn 
them with full light, or else extinguish them, otherwise 
they poison the air. Secure absolute darkness in your 
sleeping room. It promotes soundness of sleep, rests the 
eyes, and recuperates the brain. Darkness is essential to 
little children. It is a nervous sedative, it prevents phan- 
toms, and the tendency to night terrors. Never sit up 



©a5ESZ5S5E5HSHSE5E5H5E5ESESSSZ5a5aS£5HSESEESSSE25E5H5HEa 

CHOP-STICKS. 14 o 

with the sick, the hght^ the noise, and meddlesome inter- 
ruptions of a would be efficient night nurse, is execrable. 
Thoroughly cleanse the nostrils before going to sleep, this 
^ives a free nasal respiration, and with children prevents 
their becoming;- '"mouth breathers.'" 

Baby Hygiene. 

The best soothing syrup for babies is pure air, quiet and 
darkness. Give the baby a crib by itself, and under no 
circumstance allow it to sleep with an aged or enfeebled 
person. However strong the constitution of a child may 
be, it is best never to expose more of the surface of its 
body, when being bathed, than can be thoroughly dried 
and rubbed before proceeding with the bath. A bath 
that leaves the baby with blue lips and a cold surface, is 
more harmful than healthful. Inunctions of table oil, 
fresh sweet lard, or vaseline, accompanied by gentle mas- 
sage, giving motion to ev^ery joint and nmscle, will add to 
the flesh and vigor of the baby, and with feeble babies is 
preferable many times to the bath. Serve no cold lunch- 
es or warmed over meals to the baby. See that there are 
no milk ''tide marks," on the inside of the bottles, to pro- 
duce acidity in the freshest or sweetest milk. Don't be 
afraid of extravagance in buying new nipples and tubing 
every week; it is economy of the most commendable kind. 
Don't turn your nurseries into drying rooms for unlaun- 
dried hnen; it iiiins the health of all exposed; it shocks 
the olfactories of your visitors, beside it is totally unnec- 
essary. Babies should be the pei*sonification of freshness, 
sweetness and cleanliness. 

Substitutes for Mother's Milk. 

First. Dissolve one teaspoonful of sugar of milk, (Ger- 
man,) in three tablespoonfuls of boiling water, to which 
add half teaspoonful of fresh milk. 

EEES5SSHSSSS5SEESSSS5ZSS5HSSSSSE5aSZSSSSSHSE5a5H5S5H5H5ll 



(SSESTESZffiSITEZSHSSiESHSiBSHSHSZSZaSEZSHSHSHSHSlSSSHSSSHSHffa!! 

144 CHOP-STICKS. 



Second. Dissolve one ounce of sugar of milk, (German p 
in three-quarters of a pint of boiling water. Mix as want- 
ed, with an equal quantity of good, new cows milk. 

Third. Milk as fresh as possible is allowed to stand tw^o 
hours in a moderately warm place, then the upper third 
is removed. To one pint of warm water, or barley water, 
holding a teaspoonful of sugar of milk in solution, add one- 
gill of milk. Increase the quantity ofmilk after tlie first 
four months to two gills. 

Fourth. Five grains of gelatine, twenty-five grains of 
arrow-root, one and one-half pints of water. These 
quantities are always to be used, (after once weighing out, 
it can be readily guessed at.) The milk and cream are to 
be increased with the age of the child. 

For the first 3 months, Milk, 2 gills; cream, 1 gill. 

From 3 to 6 months, Milk, 3 gills; cream, 1 gill. 

From 6 to 9 months, Milk, 1 pint; cream 1^ gills. 

From 9 to 12 months, Milk, 1| pints; cream, 1^ or 2 gills. 

Directions for preparing it. Put one and one-quarter 
pints of water in a sauce-pan over the fire, and dissolve 
the gelatine in it. When the water boils, pour in the ar- 
row-root, previously nnxed with a gill of cold water. Let 
this boil five minutes, then add the milk ; w^hen that boils, 
add the cream and remove it immediately from the fire. 
Sweeten it with loaf sugar a little sweeter than cow's milk. 
The milk should be fresh, and the cream not over three 
hours old. If the child is constipated, use more cream, 
if otherwise, less should be used. Two quarts of milk will 
furnish the cream that is necessary and yet be good for 
family use. 



chop-sticks. 145 

Artificial Infant Food, 

•*The use of mixed healthy cows milk rendered alkahne 
by bi-carbonate of soda, (baking soda, not powder, ) with 
the addition of a tablespoonf ul or two of good cream to 
one half pint of milk, then heated to one hundred and thir- 
ty-one deg. and afteiward sweetened by a strong, freshly 
prepared syrup of milk sugar, forms the most admirable 
artificial infant aliment now known." Dr. Hamilton. 

Litmus paper procured at any drug store, will enable 
one to test the acidity of the milk. Mixed cow's milk is 
always preferable to one cows milk. Of the prepared 
foodvS, the Anglo Swiss Food, without suizar, corresponds 
the nearest to mother's milk. Next to this are the Lie- 
tieig Foods, of Horlick, and Mcdlen. The baby stomach 
is a very small organ, and in health holds but little more 
than two ounces, (eight tablespoonf uls. ) The nursing 
bottle in use, holds from six to twelve ounces. Thus by 
over feeding, is the large mortality of artificially fed babies 
induced. In preparing foods, learn to use the ther- 
mometer specially adapted for this purpose ; a tempera- 
ture of ninety-five deg, is best for the baby's stomach. 

The temperature is of more value than the pulse in deter- 
mining the presence of fever. Thus a fever thermometer 
should be in every household. The normal temperature 
of an infant is 99 degrees, and of an adult, 99 06 degrees. 
Rapid increase of temperature betokens inflammation, 
and the necessity of calling a physician. 



Foods and Drinks for the Sick, 

Food for the sick should be of the best quality, and 
neatly and delicately prepared. Every meal should be a 



S5a5H5HSES^a5HSSiSHS2S?SlS"aSHSlSH;:HSB5HSH5HSHSHSraS^SHSBffl 



14() CHOP-STICKS. 

surprise^ and the pa;tient should be left alone while eat- 
ing it, if possible. Never bring a larger quantity of food 
at a time, than will probably be eaten,, or if a child, than 
is best for it. Food should be made as attractive as pos- 
sible, served in the choicest of chinas with the cleanest of 
napkins, and the brightest of silver. Never keep frait in 
a sick room, the sight of it is apt to lessen the appetite 
for it ; an orange delicately prepared, or a bunch of nice- 
grapes, brought in on a dessert plate, will form, with the- 
addition of flowers or a few gi'een leaves, a tempting and 
agreeable surprise to the appetite of a capricious invahd. 
Tea and coffee, when admissable, should always be 
quickly and freshly made,, thus securing the aroma and 
nerve stimulating properties. No foods or drinks should 
remain in the sick room, but should be kept in an adjoin- 
ing room cr outside of the window, where they will be 
fresh and cool. The fevered atmosphere of the sick room 
passes readily into the composition of food. As far as- 
possible keep all medicines out of the sick room. It is 
bad enough to have them to take^ without being constant- 
ly compelled to look at them- 

Extract of Beef. 

Half a pound of lean beef, taken from the neck or 
shoulder^ (chopped,not too fine,) then put it in a fruit jar 
with a tight cover; put the jar in a kettle with tepid 
water; place over the fire to boil. The secret of success 
in preparing the beef in this way is in securing the juice 
of the beef as rapidly as it exudes, so that after boiling 
ten minutes, the juice should be poured off, and the pro- 
cess be repeated every ten minutes, until all is collected. 
Season the extract to the taste with salt, and administer 
in small quantities at a time- 



chop-sticks. 147 

Beef Wine or Cold Beef Tea. 

Take one half pound of lean beef, and chop it fine ; put 
in a vessel and pour over it three gills of cold water, add 
<^ne teaspoonful of salt and three drops of chemically 
pure Muriatic Acid. Let it stand two hours, strain it off 
through a fine cloth, and give a wine glassful at a time. 

Damascene Preserve Beef. 

Raw beef chopped fine, and pounded with equal parts 
of white sugar, until finely comminuted. This has 
proven a '^ life saver" in many instances. The raw beef, 
however, must be above suspicion as regards freshness. 

Mutton Broth. 

To each pound of meat, add one quart of cold water, 
5)ring gently to a boil; after boiling half an hour, allow 
it to become cold. Remove all the fat, then replace it on 
the stove and when warm, remove the remainder of the 
fat with clean, white blotting paper. Salt the broth to 
the taste and then serve hot. 

Clam Broth. 

In dyspepsia and in catarrhal inflammation of the sto- 
mach or bowels, no article of diet excels a properly pre- 
pared clam broth. Take in their shells, eight small, or 
twelve little neck clams, scrub the shells perfectly clean, 
then put them in a vessel with one pint of tepid water; 
put them over the fire, and boil for fifteen minutes, skim, 
then pour off the broth. Season with a dash of cayenne 
pepper, and serve hot. To some, the broth is equally pal- 
atable cold. 

Raw Oysters, 

The soft part or liver of the oyster, contains a digest- 
ive element that in the weakest of stomachs, secures 



148 CHOP-STICE&. 

complete digestion. Oysters if fresh enough t& eat at all 
require only a clash of Cayenne pepper and a few drops', 
of lemon juice. Under no circumstance should vinegai- 
he used, 

Chicken Broth. 
One chicken^ jointed. Place in a kettle and cover with 
wateTv let it boil, skim off the fat, and season with salt. 
If desired, a teaspoonful of rice or barley may be added- 
and allowed to boil mitil the rice is cooked, 

Revelenta Arabica, 

An English preparation said to be the ground seed of 
the Lentil^ a common European plant; this is highly nu- 
tritive diet, and borne by the most delicate stomachs, 

Racahoft. 

For Mothers. This is prepared hj Hubbell of Philadel- 
phia. It is composed of arrow-root, salep, farina^ and 
sugar of milk. With cocoa^flavored sKghtly with vanilla 
Jt is a nutricious drink^ resembling chocolate. 

Plain Panada, 

Use the crusts of bread at least a day old, break it 
small into a hot bowb sprinkle with sugar, to the taste,, 
pour on this a liberal portion of cream, and finally 
enough scalding hot water, to cover the bread. Chop it 
rapidly with a silver butter knife^ until reduced to a fine 
loose pulp, ( never mash it with the side of the 
knife) then allow it to stand until cool enough to eat,, 
when it should be eaten, 

Whiseev Panada, 

Take four soda crackers, break them into a bowl; 
add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, a small bit of butter. 

fiiS£5i5Z5E5Z5HSE5E£i5E5Z5E52SH£[e!5Z5E5Z5ZS£5H5E5E5Z5SSES!^ 



6iia5H5H5E5E5E5ESH5E5E5E5HSESHSHS25E5E5HSH5H5ZSHSE5HSSEH5® 

CHOP-STICKS. 14U 

one tablespooiiful of pure whiskey. Pour over the whole 
one-half pint of boiling hot water, and flavor with a little 
^•rated nutoieg. 

OoLB Wine Caudle. 

Mak-e ^ good gruel, by mixing smoothly a tablespoon- 
ful of flour, with half a pint of cold milk, or water ; and 
■stirring it into a pint and a half of boihng milk, or water 
add a level teaspoonful of salt, and let the gruel boil for 
five minutes, stirring all the time to prevent burning. 
To half a pint of cold gruel, add one egg beaten to a. froth 
•one wine-glass of good wine, and sugar and nutmeg to 
;suit the palate of the patients. 

Hot Wjjsie Caudle. 

Heat half a pint of gruel, (indicated in the preceding 
recipe), beat the yolk of a raw egg to a cream, with two ta- 
blespoonfuls of pulverized sugar; beat the white of the egg 
to a stiff froth; when the gruel is boiling hot, quickly beat 
a glass of good Sherry or Madeira Wine into the egg yolk 
and sugar, stir the hot gruel into it, and then add the 
beaten white of the egg. Work very quickly and serve 
the caudle hot. 

Cream Caudle, 

To one pint of gruel, add one glass of good wine, one 
gill of sweet cream, and sugar to suit the patient's tasta 
Serve hot. 

Almond Milk. 

Pour a quart of boiling water upon a quarter of a pound 
of shelled almonds, and when the skins soften; rub them 
off the kernels with a clean towel. Pound -the almonds 
thus blanched in a mortar, putting in three or four at a 
time, and adding four or five drops of milk, as the al- 

®ES2525aS2SESi5HSH5S5Z5HSH5HSaS25HSESH5S5HSHSHSES2SH5H5@ 



gJ5E5H5iE5Z5Z25a5SH525i!SH5H5HSH5H5H5iE5H5HSSS13SSHS2Sa51EH!l 

150 CHOP-STICKS. 

monds are being pounded — ^to prevent oiling, about a table- 
spoonful of milk will be required to the quarter of a 
pound of almonds. When the almonds are finely pound- 
ed, mix them with a pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar^ a level teaspoonful of salt,, and the yellow rind of 
a lemon, and place the milk over the fire to boil; mean 
time beat three eggs smoothly, and strain the almond 
milk into them, stirring the mixture as the milk is strain- 
ed in; return it to the saucepan and place it into 
"another pan of water, over the fire, stirring it cc nstantly 
until it begins to thicken, then remove it at once from 
the fire, strain^ and use it. 

Irish Moss Water. 

Wash half an ounce of moss in plenty of cold water, 
soak it ten minutes, in a fresh pint of cold water; 
then add two pints of cold water, a tablespoonf ul of sugar, 
and an inch of stick cinnamon to it, and boil it until it is 
about as thick as cream. Strain it,add more sugar if it is 
desired, and use it while warm. 

Cold Cream Toast. 

Cut thin slices of bread very thin, (home-made bread 
preferable,) toast it quickly and evenly on both sides, 
sprinkle the toast with salt, then pour over it plenty of 
sweet cream. This is most appetizing for a delicate 
stomach. 

Sago Jelly. 

One quart of boiling water, six tablespoonfuls sago, and 
six tablespoonfuls of sugar. Boil to a jelly, stir all the 
time, and flavor with vanilla, nutmeg or cinnamon. 
Pour it into moulds and serve with cream. 



chop-sticks. 151 

Arrow-root Custard. 

Boil one pint of milk, and while boiling, stir into it one 
tablespoonf ul of arrow-root mixed smooth with a little cold 
milk, add a little salt, and let boil three or four minutes, and 
let it cool; add two well beaten ei^gs, sugar and nutmeg to 
the taste. Return to the range, and stir all the time, until 
it boils, then pour into custard cups. 

How to Make a Poultick. 

The first i^equisite is a good supply of thin flannel bags, 
varying in size from six inches to twelve inches square. 
The second requisite is good Enghsh mustard, unadulter- 
;ated. The third, is flaxseed meal, (not flaxseed cake, the 
oil having been expressed, this latter adulteration is 
quite common, and should not be used, if you desire a 
demulcent poultice. ) The fourth, is an iron spoon. Place 
five tablespoonfuls of flaxseed meal, and one teaspoonful 
of mustard, in a pint bowL Pour half a teacupful of boil- 
ing water over this, and gently stir it until the whole is 
moistened, then add about the same quantity of boiling 
water, and vigorously beat the poultice, adding and beat- 
ing, until it becomes light, foamy, and about the consist- 
ency of thin cake batter, then pour into the bag; quickly 
sew it up, and it is ready to apply. With little children, 
the mustard should be omitted. 

How TO Apply a Poultice. 

Place smoothly around the patient a broad bandage oi" 
roller towel, with the free ends at the seat of pain ; have 
a piece of oiled silk or rubber mesh a little larger than 
the poultice, also about four thicknesses of dry flannel, 
large enough to project at least two inches beyond the 
poultice in each direction. You are now prepared to ap- 



152 CHOP-STICKS. 

ply it ; poar a little scalding Iiot^ water over the side of the 
poultice hag that is to- he placed nearest the patient, thu'^ 
giving increased moisture and heat. Apply the poultice- 
over the seat of pain, over the hag, th& oiled &ilk, and 
over the silk, the dry flannel. Now^ bring the ends of the 
bandage together,, secure them with safety pins, havinii" 
one large safety pin embrace bandage, poultice and all. 
This will keep the poultice from getting out of place. A 
poultice thus applied will remain hot and effective four 
hours, when, if it is necessary to apply a second or an in- 
definite number of poultices, the bandage can be removed 
and another fresh bag^previously pi'epared,.can be applied.. 



^ m/I.Iv^«TlCI.I..AMfrjftITN^ 



The Best Baking Bowdek. 

The best baking powder is made from pure Cream of 
Tartar, Bicarbonate of Soda, and a small quantity of flour 
or starch. IVequently other ingredients are nsed,r and 
serve a purpose in reducing the cost and increasing the- 
profits of the mamifacturer. 

We give the Government Chemisf^s analysis of two of 
the leading baking pOAvders : 

I have examined samples of *' Cleveland's Superior Bak 
ing Powder," manufactured at Albany, N. Y.. and "Roy 
al Baking Powder,'^' both purchased by myself in this city 
and T find they contain '. 



ISSSiSZ5ZSZ5ZSE?aSESZ5Sl5Z525i£Z5ZSZ5Z£Z5ZS252525Z5Z5Z5Z5e9 



CHOP-STICKS. lo'J* 

■• Ci^.YEJLAND^s Superior Baking Powder." 
Oream of Tartar 
Bicai'bonate of Soda 
Flour 
Available oarbonic acid gas li.Gl per cent, equivalent 
to 118.2 cubic inches of gas per ounce of Powden 
^' Royal Baking Powder.'^ 
Cream of Tartai* 
Bicarbonate of Soda 
Carbonate of Ammonia 
Tartaric Acid 
Starch 
Available carbonate acid gasl'i.J-D i>er cent, equivalent to 
11«).2 cubic inches of gas per ounce of Powder. 

Ammonia gas 0.4;> per cent, equivalent to 10,4 cubic 
inches, per ounce of Powder. 

Note — The Tartaric Acid was doubtless introduced as 
free acid, but subsequently combined with ammonia, and 
exists in the Powder as a Tartrate of Ammonia. 

K G. LOVE, Ph. D; 
New York, Jany 17th, 1881. 

The above analyses indicate a preference for ' ' Cleve- 
land's Superior Baking Powder," and our opinion is that 
it is the better preparation. — llaWs Journal of Health. 

Buttermilk Pop. 

One pint of buttermilk heated over the fire ; when just 
steamin.2; hot, stir '\\\ a tablespoonful of Indian Meal ; let 
it boil up and add sugar, and a little nutmeg or cinnamon 
if you desire it. Drink when cool. 

Grape Wine, 

Ten pounds of grapes, one quart of water, heat to boil- 
ing; when the juice flows freely, press them lightly in a 
cloth, then add two pounds sugar to the juice, and boil 

eEHHSESHSESHSHSZSZSH^'ZSHSSSHSHSHHHSHSaSESHSHSHSEESSHSHSB 



154 CHOP-STICKS. 

twenty minutes. Put in cans, and when used add a pint 
of water, or less to a quart of the wine. Make a thin 
cloth bag of half a yard of muslin, and when ready ^ 
dip them in and press with a preserve plate, don't press 
them as dry as you can, and when boilinu- with suiiar^ 
skim off the skum This makes a good, unfermented 
wine for Communion. 

Mrs. McMasiehs. 

Welsh Rabbit. 

Cut or grate a cupful of cheese ; put it with a cupful of 
milk in a kettle. After the cheese has melted, add pep- 
per and salt to taste, and one egg, well beaten, just scald 
it once, then pour over dry toast. P. 

Mulled Wine. 

Put cinnamon and allspice, (to the taste,) into a cup of 
hot water to steep, add three eggs, well beaten with sugar, 
heat to a boil a pint of wine, then put in the spice and 
eggs, while boiling. Stir them until done, wdiich will be 
in about three minutes. M. 

New England Pork and Beans. 

On Saturday morning, carefully pick over, and put in- 
to a pan of cold water, three pints of small wdiite beans; 
rinse in the water, and put them into an iron kettle, 
then settle down into them, one and one-half pounds salt 
pork, and just cover them with cold water. Put the ket- 
tle on the top of the stove, until they commence to sim- 
mer; then set them on the back part of the stove, so that 
they will at no time cook faster than a simmer. Occas- 
ionally add a little hot water, but never let the surface be 
more than barely covered. Saturday towards evening, 



CHOP-STICKS. 155 

mix a -scant quart/er of a teaspoonful -of ^Kxla with two 
teaspoonfuls of niolasseK, in a little wat(;r, and pour in 
tlie kettle. Let them remain on the stove Saturday night 
initil the fire goes out. Sunday morning, let them re- 
jnain cooking until breakfast is ready; then pour them 
■out on a platter, and if all the directions have l)een fol- 
lowed vou will have '^ a dish fit for a king.'' 

R S. Norton 

Fritters with any kind of Fruit. 

Two ei]:gs beaten very light in a cup, the same measure 
•of sweet milk, tw^o cups of flour, pinch of salt; beat quite 
hard, lay a piece of fruit in the middle of each spoonful, 
and drop in boiling lard. Fry a light brown, be sure 
they are thoroughly one. Apples, j)eaclies, pears and 
oranges quarteied are used. 



M. 



English Ginger Beer. 



Pour four quarts of boiling water, upon an ounce of 
loaf sugar, two fresh lemons, sliced tliin. It should be 
wrought twenty-four hours with two gills of yeast, and 
then bottled. It improves by keeping several weeks, un- 
less the weather is hot. It is an excellent drink for warm 
weather. 

G. 

Omelet. 

Six eggs, one cup sweet milk, pinch of salt. Put piece 
of butter in your pan to melt, beat yolks of eggs, add 
milk and salt; let it cook slowly, stirring from the top 
only until cooked through. Then add the whites of 
eggs well beaten, and let it stand on the top of the stove, 
until they are set. Double and place on hot platter. 

Mrs. J. J. G k. 

EEEHSE5Z5H5H5H5E5asaiE5E5SSS5a5ZSE5Z5ESa5SSH5a5E5Z5E525I3 



iISEF25HEH5125a5SrHSlSlffE5HSa5H5H5ZSB5H5HSZ5H5HSESESH5H5H!a 

lo() CHOP-STICKS. 

Pot-cheese. 

Scald your buttermilk; then set over the fire to boil ; 
skim the top and pour it in a bag to drain; when the 
whey is all out of it^season witlf sal t,a little red pepper, and 
as much sweet cream as you Kke, work it all thoroughly. 
Make up in little pats^ or little heap on a dish. 

P. 

Scalloped Eggs. 

Mince any kind of cold meat, season with pepper and 
salt, adding a few bread crumbs; cover the bottom of 
small saucers with it, putting in each a small piece of 
butter; break a fresh egg on top, set on a slide in a hot 
oven: when the egg begins to cook, sprinkle a little crack- 
er, rolled very fine, on it with a dust of salt and pepper. 
Send to the table hot. Breakfast, lunch or tea dish. 

G 

Spiced Wine. 

Five gallons of wine, half pound cinnamon, half ounce 
< loves; half ounce mace, three gills of water. 

G. 

Wine Whey. 

Boil up once one pint of new milk, take it from the fire 
add a tumblerful of Sherry wdne, Stir it rapidly for a 
few moments, set it aside until the curd settles, then pour 
off the clear whey. Sweeten to taste. Good country 
cider may be used instead of wine, but is not as ii;ood or 
delicate for a sick person. 

P. 

Royal Straw^berry Acid. 

Three pounds of ripe strawberries, two ounces citiic 
acid, one quart of water, dissolve the acid in the w^ater, 

VS 152 



CHOP-STICKS. 157 

;and pour it on the berries. Let stand in a cool place 
twenty four hours: then drain the liquid oflE, and pour it 
'on three pounds more of bei-ries. and let that stand twen- 
ty four hours. Add then, the liquid to its own weight 
•of sugar, boil three or four minutes in a porcelain kettle. 
When cool, cork it lightly for three days, then tighten 
and seal up. Keep in a cool place, w^here it will not 
freeze. Two or three tablespooufuls in a glass of water, 
makes a delightful beverage. 

Mrs, S. T. Cary. 

Cough Syrup, 

Dissolve half an ounce of gum camphor in one pint of 
pure brandy, then add three tablespooufuls of white pine 
pitch, and allow them to simmer until completely dissolv- 
■ed. Then add half a pound of strained honey and half a 
paund of loaf sugar. Allow it to boil up and then while 
hot put in bottle. Dose ; a tablespoonf ul three times a day. 

Mrk. In'Gali.s, 

Sun-flower Seed Syrup. 

Thought to be a sure cure for a very bad cough. 

One gill of sun-flower seeds, steeped in one quan of 
"water until reduced to a pint. Take half pound cinished 
sugar, and strain the liquid on it ; add to the w^hole one 
pint of best Gin. Dose; one wine glass three times a day. 

P. 

Ointment por Felons, 

One ounce lard, one ounce rosin, one ounce beeswax, one 
and one half ounces bitter-sweet berries. Simmer the first 
three together, when warm take the berries; and after 
removing the shucks, pulverize them and thoroughly 



loS CHOP- STICKS. 

mix ill the salve. Keep a plaster of this on all the time. 
This will often cure one, without its being lanced. Get 
the berries at the druggists. 

G. 

Troches. 

One oimce of pulverized cubebs^ one ounce pulverized' 
gum arable, one ounce pulverized licorice root, half pound 
pulverized sugar. Mix together dry and then moisten a 
• little and mix with com starch sufficient to roll out on- 
moulding board and cut in small squares, then place on 
plates to dry. 

Mrs. Caky.. 

Cough Mixruws. 

One ctrp granulated sugar^ one cup strained honey^ one 
cup cider vinegar; one cup best whiskey, one cup water 
Let all stand until well n"rixed. Take spoonful every lit- 
tle while, 

B. 

Blackberry Cordial. 

Take sufficient ripe blackberries to make two quarts of 
jnice after they are mashed and strained, one pound loaf 
sugar, quarter ounce cloves, half ounce cinnamon, half 
ounce nutmeg, half ounce allspice. Boil all fifteen min- 
utes, when cold,, add a pint of brandy- 

Mrs. S, T, Caky, 



i2Sa^a5aSHSHSSSESESaSE^ElS2LSHSHSSSESHSasaSHSESS5asaS2S2!:i^ 



■J .r 





















•b V' 



^'^ .. '^^ 




,-Jv" . 




ov^ r-^^^B: '^-^0^ 






.\ 



A. 




I... 



^°-^^. 




K^ 




o 







^<^a^ .c,'^'' ^^^¥ 



^^-;^ 







^^-n^ 








-^ 



'^ 



:^-n^ 





"" V "^\\^ .... -^^ °"° .f° ..„ ^^ 



^^•^^^ 





^. 











'^oV 



^^•^^. 













4 o. 




^^^^ \^^«' /'~\ "■'^^•" **'% '•:_ 






Hc 








