Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



b\ 



IRADCUFFE COILEGi UBRARYl 

WOMEN'S ARCHIVES 

Transferred from 

HARVARD COLLEGE UBRARY 

1960 




Sfarbarlj CoUcge ILiIirarp 

RECEIVED BY BEQUEST 
•* SEPTEMBER S, 1926 •* 



4f 



^-%f-8j. 



IUomI 



— . / 






^fc^ £r. J^^i^^-^'j. 



HAND-BOOK 



or 



PRACTICAL COOKERY, 



FOB 



LADIES AND PROFESSIONAL COOKS. 



OONTAIKING 

THE WHOLE SCIENCE AND ART OF FREPARINO 

HUMAN FOOD. 



BY 

PIERRE BLOT, 

raowEBBOR or oabtbohoict, and fottztdbb or thx mew yobs 

oooxora aoadext. 



'If ye be willing and obedient, je shall eat the good of the land.* 



NEW YORK: 

D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, 

1« 8, AHD 6 BOND STBEBT. 

1884. 




HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY 

BEQUEST OF 

MRS. CHESTER N. GREENOUGH 

SEPTEMBER 20, 1926 



KimBBD, aeoording to Ad of Congress, In the yoar 18C7, by 

D. APPLETON & CO, 

lu the Clerk^B Office of the District Conrt of the United States for tbo 

Boutiicrn District of New York. 



i 






i 

i 



PREFACE. 



Food 2A the most important of our wants; we 
eannot exist without it. The man who does not use 
his brain to select and prepare his food, is not above 
the brutes that take it in its raw state. It is to the 
physique what education is to the mind, coarse or re- 
fined. Grood and well-prepared food beautifies the 
physique the same as a good and well-directed educa- 
tion beautifies the mind. A cook-book is like a book 
on chemistry, it cannot be used to any advantage if 
theory is not blended with practice. It must also be 
written according to the natural products and climate 
of the country in which it is to be used, and with a 
perfect knowledge of the properties of the different 
articles of food and condiments. 

Like many other books, it is not the size that 
makes it practical; we could have made this one 
twice as large as it is, without having added a single 
receipt to it, by only having given separate ones 
for pieces of meat, birds, fishes, etc., that are of the 



* PEEFACE. 

same kind and prepared alike. All cook-books writ- 
ten by mere compilers, besides giving the same re- 
ceipt several times, recommend the most absurd 
mixtures as being the best and of the " latest French 
style." 

Although cookery has made more progress within 
two or three years, in this country as well as in 
Europe, than it had since 1830, and although all 
our receipts are complete, practical, wholesome, and 
in accordance with progress, still they are simple. 
Our aim has been to enable every housekeeper and 
professional cook, no matter how inexperienced they 
may be, to prepare any kind of food in the best and 
most wholesome way, with economy, celerity, and 
taste ; and also to serve a dinner in as orderly a man- 
ner as any steward can do. 

We did not intend to make a book, such as that 
of Cak&mb, which cannot be used at all except by 
cooks of very wealthy families, and with which one 
sannot make a dinner costing less than twenty dol- 
lars a head. Such a book is to housekeepers or plain 
cooks what a Latin dictionary is to a person of merely 
elementary education. 

If we give so many different ways of preparing 
the same article of food, it is not with a view to com- 
plicate cookery, but people's taste is in food as in 
dress, differing not only in the selection of colors, but 
also in shape; therefore, by our variety of dishes and 
our different styles of decorating them ; by the ease 



PREFACE. 5 

that they can be prepared in the cheapest as well as 
in the most costly way, we think we have met all 
wants and all tastes. The wealthy, as well as those 
in limited circnmstances, can use our receipts with 
the same advantage. 

Our division of cookery and the system of arran- 
ging biHs offarey contained in these pages, solve that 
great and perplexing question, especially for ladies, 
how to arrange a bill of fare for every season^ to suit 
any number of guests, at a greater or less expense, as 
they may desire. Every one knows that money alone 
cannot make good dishes; however good the raw 
materials may be, they require proper preparations 
before being palatable and wholesome. 

TO HOUSEKEEPERS AND COOKS. 

A cookbook cannot be used like a dictionary ; a 
receipt is like a rule of grammar : to comprehend it 
thoroughly, it is indispensable to understand others. 
The author, therefore, earnestly recommends to his 
readers to begin by perusing carefully the directions, 
etc., at the beginning of the book, and also the expla- 
nations given on and heading the different articles of 
food, before attempting the preparation of a dish for 
the first time. They will thus soon be able to pre- 
pare any dish by merely reading the receipt. If all 
the explanations necessary were given at every re* 
ceipt, this work would have filled more *iJian ten 
volumes like the present. 



6 PBEFAOE. 

We are aware that the study of cookery is aa 
aninviting and dry as the stady of grammar at first ; 
80 is the study of every science and even art ; but it 
becomes comparatively easy and interesting after a 
while. Mere flourish in a receipt would have the 
same effect as in a rule of grammar. 

TO COOKS. 

We think the foUowing fnendly recommendations 
will not be out of place here. They are in the inters 
est of both the housekeeper and the cook : 

Make use of every thing good. 

Waste nothing, however little it may be. 

Have no prejudices. 

Be careful, clean, and punctual 

Always bear in mind that routine is the greatest 
enemy of progress, and that you have agreed to faith- 
fully perform your daily duties for a certain consider- 
ation. 

PIERRE BLOT. 

Kkw York, Atiffwl^ 1867. 



OOlJTTEISrTS. 



■♦♦♦- 



COOKING, . . . . . . . 9 

DIEEOTIONS, EXPLANATIONS, KTC, . . 16 

DIYEBS RECEIPTS, 44 

POTAGES OR SOUPS, 61 

SAUCES^ 97 

FARCES AND GARNITURES, • • • .113 

FISH, 126 

BEEF, . . . • . • . .162 

JIUTTON, 184 

VEAL, 202 

PORE, 226 

POULTRY, . . . . . . .287 

GAME, 276 

VEGETABLES, 805 

EGGS, MACARONI, AND RICE, .... 866 

SWEET DISHES, 876 

PASTRY, 409 

BILLS OF FARE, 469 

INDEX, 46ii 



COOKING. 



Ths science and art of cooking may be divided into 
ten principal parts ; tlie rest is all fancy. These ten parts 
are : Bakikg, Boilikg, Broiling, Frying, Mixing, Roast* 
ING, Saut^ing, Seasoning, Simmering, and Stswing. 

Tasting is an adjunct to alL 

Baking. — In baking, see that the furnace or oven be 
properly heated; some dishes require more heat than 
others. Look at the object in process of baking from 
time to time, and especially at the beginning, turn it 
round if necessary, in case it be heated more on one side 
than on the other, to prevent burning. 

In baking meat and fish, besides keeping the bottom 
of tlie pan covered with broth or water, place a piece of 
buttered paper over the object in the pan ; it not only 
prevents it from burning, but acts as a self-basting opera- 
tion, and keeps the top moist and juicy. 

K the top of cakes bake faster than the rest, place a 
piece of paper on it. 

In most of our receipts, we give the degree of heat 
necessary to bake the different objects ; it vfdll, no doubt, 
be found valuable information. 

Boiling, — This is the most abused branch in cooking ; 
we know that many good-meaning housewives and even 

1* 



10 oooEiNa. 

professional cooks boil things that ought to be prepared 
otherwise, with a view to economy ; but a great many 
do it through laziness. Boiling requires as much care 
as any other branch, but they do not think so, and there- 
fore indulge in it. 

Another abuse is to boil fast instead of slowly. Set a 
small ocean of water on a brisk fire and boil something in 
it as fast as you can, you make much steam but do not 
cook faster ; the degree of heat being the same as if you 
were boiling slowly. 

If the object you boil, and especially boil fast, con- 
tains any flavor, you evaporate it, and cannot bring it 
back. 

Many things are spoiled or partly destroyed by boil- 
ing, such as meat, coffee, etc 

Water that has been boiled is inferior fdr cooking pur- 
poses, its gases and ialkali being.evaporated. 

BroUing. — ^Whatever you broil, grease the biirs jof the 
gridiron first. 

Broiling and roasting is the same thing ; the object in 
process of cooking by either must be expo&ed to the heat 
on one side, and the other side to the air. 

Bear in mind that no one can broil or roast in an oven, 
whatever be: its construction, its process of heating, or its 
kind of heat An object cooked in an oven is baked; 

It is better to broil before than over the fire. In broils 
ing before the fire, all the juice can be siaved. 

In broiling by gas, there is a great advantage. The 
meat is placed under the heat, and as the heat draws the 
juice of the meat,- the consequence is, that' tiie juioe being 
attracted upward, it is retained in the meat. 

A gas broiler is a square, fiat drum, perforated on one 
nde and placed over a frame. 



OOOKIN0. 11 

Broiling on live coals or on cinders without a gridiron 
B ccrtainlj" not better than with one, as believed by many ; 
on the contrary, besides not being very clean, it boms or 
chars part of the meat. 

That belief comes from the fact that when they par 
took of meat prepared that way, it was with a sauce that 
generally accompanies hunters, fishermen, etc^ — hunger — 
the most savory of all savory sauces. 

I'rytng,—^Tha.t part of cooking is not as difficult as it is 
generally believed, and properly fried objects are good and 
do not taste greasy. 

To fiy requires care, and nothing fried will taste 
greasy if it has been dropped in (at properly heated and 
in enough of it to immerse the object. 

When an object tastes greasy, it is not because it hag 
been fried in grease, but because there was not enough of 
it, or because it was not properly heated ; for, if heated 
enough it closes the pores of the object and carbonijces 
tho exterior, so that it cannot absorb any. 

DinecHons for Frying. — ^Prepare what you intend to 
fiy according to the directions given in the different 
receipts. 

H^ve &t, lard, or oil in a pan, enough to immerse 
the object or i)bjects intended to be fried. 

When the &t is hot; enough (see below), place the 
object in a kind of wire basket made for that purpose, 
which drop in the fsit and take off when the object is 
fried. It is handy,. and there is no danger of breaking 
the object in taking it off . 

There are objects that require to be stirred or. turned 
jver while frying. 

Every time you fry any thing, take the fat from the 
ire, let it stand in a cool place for about five minutes, 



12 oooxma. 

thon turn it gently into a stone jar or pot through a 
strainer; let cool and put away. In turning the fat| 
lard, or oil into the jar, pour so that the dregs will be 
kept in the pan. 

To ascertain with accuracy when the fat, lard, or oil is 
hot enough to lay the things in the pan, dip a fork in cold 
water, the prongs only, so as to retain but one or two 
drops of water, which drops you let fall in the fat, and if 
it crackles, it is hot enough. 

Another way is, when jets of smoke come out of 
the fat 

There are objects that require more heat than others, 
some that are more sightly when brown, and others when 
of a pale-yellow hue. 

If the object is desired brown, leave the pan on a 
brisk fire while it is frying ; if otherwise, remove it to a 
slow or less brisk fire. 

Fat is not like water, which, no matter how fast you 
boil it, you cannot augment the degree of heat, while 
you can that of fat If water, by boiling it fast, could be 
heated as much as fat, it would be used to fry in its steady 
being cheaper. 

Mixing, — ^In mixing, pay due attention to the quanti- 
ties we give in the receipts ; but as everybody has not 
the same taste, it is very easy to augment or diminish the 
quantity of salt, pepper, sugar, butter, etc., so as to suit 
one's own taste. 

When the quantity is left to the judgment or taste of 
the cook, that is, when the expression about so much is 
made use o^ it is not necessary then to have the exact 
quantity; a little more or a little less cannot spoil or 
partly destroy the dish. 

Boasting. — ^When an object is placed on the spit ac- 



oooxmG. 13 

eording to directions, remember that it camict be basted 
too often. 

The time necessary for roasting a piece of meat or any 
thing else, depends as mnch upon the fire as npon the 
nature of the meat. Meat especially requires to be placed 
▼ery near the fire at first, and then put back by degrees. 

There is nearly as mncb difference between roasted 
and baked meat as there is between broDed and Med 
meat. 

It is generally admitted here, that English roast-beef 
is so superior to American roast-beef that it cannot be 
compared to it. It is not in the quality of the meat that 
the difference lies, but in the process of cooking. 

Meat cannot be roasted in an oven, be it in an ordi- 
nary or in a patented one. 

That peculiar flavor in roasted meat is produced by 
the air coming constantly in contact with the heated meat 
while revolving on the spit. 

Cold roasted meat, when desired to be served warm, 
is enveloped in buttered paper and placed on the spit just 
long enough to warm it. 

SautHn^.-^There is no word, that we know, in the 
English language, corresponding to the French word saute. 
It differs fi*om frying in this : that to fry any object requires 
fat enough to immerse that object ; while to sautS it, re- 
quires just enough to prevent it from scorching. 

Yfcgetables, omelets, etc., are sautSd, and not fried. 

Meat or fisb cooked in a frying-pan with a little butter 
or fat, is sautSd, and uot Med ; but the term Med is most 
generally used, the other being only known to prac- 
titioners. 

To sauti requires a brisk fire ; the qmcker an object 
IS cooked by sautHng the better. 



14 oooKma. 

Seasoning, — ^Tbis is the most difficult part in the set- 
ence of cooking. To season is not difficulty bat to season 
properly is qnite another thing. 

It is not only necessary to know well how to stew or 
roast a peace of meat or any thing else, but to know how 
to season it, to be able to judge what quantity and what 
kind of spices can be used to season such or such a dish, 
to what extent all the spices used agree together, and 
what taste and flavor they will give to the object with 
which they are cooked ; for, if not properly used, they 
may just as likely destroy the taste and flavor of the object 
as improve it 

Some dishes require high and much seasoning, others 
just the contrary. With a good fire and a good spit, it is 
not necessary to be a thorough cook to roast a piece well, 
but the cook is indispensable to mix the gravy or sauce 
with the proper seasonings. 

Simmering, — Simmering differs from boiling only in the 
amount of heat allowed under the boiler, kettle, or pan. 
To simmer, is to boil as gently and slowly as possible. 

Stewing, — ^To stew properly it is necessary to have a 
moderate fire and as even as possible. A brisk fire would 
cause much steam to evaporate, which steam is the flavor 
of the object stewed. 

Tazting, — ^This is the most difficult, and at the same 
time the most delicate, part of seasoning; it is. by tasting 
that we ascertain if we have seasoned properly. 

In this only two of the senses are engaged, a^d one 
of those much more than the other. 

A person may have good feeling, hearing, and sighti 
and for all that would not be fit for preparing the simplest 
dish ; the senses of smelling and tasting are the ones most 
required, and without which no one can cook properlv. 



OOOKING. 15 

For these reasons we wiU take the liberty to recommend 
to honsekeepers, when they have new cooks, to mstnici 
them on their taste, and always let them know when thdy 
have' seasoned too much or too little. To the cooks we 
will say, do not season according to your own taste, if the 
persons for whom you cook do not like it. 

If the housekeeper would give his or her candid and 
frank opinion of the dishes to the cook, and if the latter 
be not stubborn, the best results might be obtained and 
both would be benefited by it. That ought to be done 
every day while making the bill of fare. 

To taste a sauce, as well as to know if a thing is good 
to eat) we cannot trust either our eyes, fingers, or ears ; we 
then have recourse, first to our smelling, and then to our 
tasting : so do most animals. 

We always commence by smelling, and when that 
sense is satisfied as far as it is concerned, we then apply 
our tasting qualities ; and if that last one is, in its turn, 
satisfied also, we proceed, that is, we masticate, if masticft- 
tion is necessary, and then swallow. 



DIEECnONS, EXPLANATIONS, ETC 



AmSR 
Anisx comes from Egypt, and is ased as a spice. 

APRICOT. 
This is a natiye of Armenia. It is served like plami 
and peaches ; in salad, compote, etc. 

BACON. 
Never use smoked bacon or ham, except when espe- 
cially directed. The smoky taste would spoil the dish. 

BAIN-MARIE. 

A bain-marie is a large vessel of hot or boiling water, 
in which saucepans, kettles, moulds, etc., are placed to 
prepare or warm food. It is also used to keep any kind 
of food warm, when something is ready to serve, and the 
time has not come ; the utensil containing it is placed in hot 
water, and it not only keeps it warm, but there is almost no 
evaporation while in it. It does not boil aw^y either. 

There are things that are much more delicate when 
prepared or warmed in hot water. 

One utensil made for that purpose, and of brass, with 
compartments, is more handy, but a large saucepan may be 
used in its stead. 

When any thing is in the bain-miAie, the water should 



DIBECrnONS, EXPLANATIONS, ETC. 17 

not be allowed to boil fSsist enough either to upset the pani 
or get into them.^ 

BAKE-PANS. 
A bake^an for baMng meat, fish, or any other object 
that requires liquor of any kind, must have borders in 
order to hold that liquor; but a bake-pan for cakes or any 
other object that does not require any liquor, or that does 
not turn liquid in baking, is better without borders — ^that 
is, a simple piece of sheet iron of a size to go easily in 
the oven. 

BAY-LEAF. 

This is known also under its French name laurier. 

It is used as a spice ; it is exceedingly cheap and is 
excellent to flavor sauces, gravies, etc. 

It comes especially from Italy, where it is used to pack 
figs, oil, and different fruits. 

BEEia 

The red beet is much used to decorate different 
dishes. 

It is boiled, then pickled, cut in fancy shapes, either 
with a knife or with paste-cutters, and tastefully placed on 
or around the object it is used to decorate. 

It is served as a hors-d'oeuvre^ pickled, and cut in 
slices. 

To 6(»7.— Set it on a good fire in a pan, covered with 
cold water, and boil gently till done. 

The beet must not be touched at all with any thing 
rough, for if the akin or root is cut or broken, all the color 
goes away in boiling, it is not fit to decorate, and loses 
much of its quality. 

When you buy beets, see that they are not bruised, and 
that the root is not broken. 



18 DmsonoNS, exflakahons, eto. 

BBAJSINO. 

Brai^Dg, in cookery, means to cook any tMng with 
lire nnder and npon the pan, kettle, or other ntensiL 

A good oven is by far more easy, and answers perfect- 
ly the purpose. An oven not only warms the under and 
upper parts of the uteiisil, but all around it also. 

BUNCH OF SEASONINGS. 

It is composed of parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, &aa cloves, 
and sometimes a clove of garlic is added. Place the 
sprigs of parsley in the left hand, rather spread, lay the 
others on and in the middle of the parsley, and envelop 
them in it as well as possible, then lie the whole with 
twine. 

As all these seasonings are never served except when 
chopped, they are more easily taken out than if they were 
not tied together. 

BUTTERED PAPER. 

Dip in lukewarm butter a piece of white paper of the 
size you want, and envelop the piece to broil or roast 
with it Tie the paper around with twine or coarse 
thread. 

OILED PAPER. 

The only difference between oiled and buttered paper 
is, that it is dipped in sweet or olive oil instead of butter. 

CATSUP. 
Beware of what is sold under the name of catsups and 
pickles; many cases of dyspepsia, debility, and consump- 
tion come from using such stufil 

CAVIARE. 
It is made with the roes, hard and soft, of the sterlet 



DiBEonoNS, expulnahons, etc. 19 

It is imported from Bosaia, and is senred as a hon-d^mwnt^ 
with slices of lemon and toast 

CERVELAS, SAUCISSONS, ETC. 

Ceirelas, sancissons, as well as smoked sausages, are 
pork-bntcbeis' preparations, cnt slantwise in very thin 
slices, and served as hori-d'oeuvre^ with parsley in the 
middle of the dish. 

CHEESE. 

Cheese is the first plate of dessert to be partaken of. 
^ A dinner without cheese is like a handsome lady with 
but one eye." — BrUlat-Savarin, 

^ Cheese takes away all the taste that might be left 
from preceding dishes, and by that means prepares the 
palate for the appreciation of the good things, the delicate 
flavors of the dessert and wines." 

COCHINEAL. 

Cochineal, or carmine. Buy the cochineal in pow« 
der, prepared for cooking purposes, mix some (say the 
size of half a split pea) with a few drops of cold water and 
mix that again with what yon wish to color. The quan- 
tity of cochineal is according to the quantity of miicture 
and also according to how deep the color is desired. 

CHERVIL. 
This comes from Italy, and is used in salad and as a 
■pice. 

COLANDER. 
Besides the ordinaiy colander, it is necessary to have 
a fine one. We mean, by a fine colander, one with holes 
half the size of the ordinary ones, that is, just between 



20 DisEcrnoNS, explanations, jsto. 

the colander and strainer. A colander should not hare 
holes on the sides ; it is handier and more clean \?ith 
holes at the bottom only. 

CURRY. 

We think that curry is very good and necessary on 
the borders of the Ganges Biver, and for that very reason 
we think also that it ought to be eschewed on the borders 
of the Hudson, Delaware, Ohio, and thereabouts. 

We cannot describe curry better than by giving here 
the answer (verbatim et literatim) of a gentleman who 
has lived a few years in Java, to a question on the proper- 
ties and qualities of curry. He said that he thought it 
good and even necessary to use some there on account of 
the climate, but every time he had eaten it he thought he 
was swallowing boiling alcohol or live coals. 

DINING-ROOM. 

It must be well ventilated and lighted The best de- 
gree of temperature is about 66 degrees Fahr. 

DISH. 
A dish ought to be charming to the eye, flattering to 
the smell, and delicious to the taste. 

DRAINING. 

To drain, is to put in a colander any thing that has 
been soaked, washed, or boiled, etc., in water or any other 
liquid, in order to dry it, or at least to let drop from it 
the water or other liquid that may be in it 

Salads of greens, as a general thing, are drained after 
being washed, before putting them in the salad-dish; they 
must be drained as dry as posible, but without pressing 
on them, as it would wilt the leaves, and give the saladom 
unsightly appearance. 



DIBECnONS, EXPLANATIONS, ETC. 21 

DUSTING. 

A pan, after being battered or greased, is dusted with 
floor, sugar, or even bread-crumbs, to prerent tbe mixture 
that is put in it from sticking. Sugar, etc., may also be 
sprinMed over dishes with a dredger. 

DRINKING. 

When weary, or cold, or warm, or exhausted, we 
drink in preference to eating, because we feel the effect 
instantaneously; while after eating even the most sub- 
stantial food, we do not feel the effect for some time. 

When exhausted and when immediate relief is neces- 
sary, the best drinks are broth, chocolate, milk, or water 
sweetened with sugar. It is more than a mistake to 
drink wines or liquors at such a time ; it is really commit- 
ting slow suicide. 

When only thirsty, without exhaustion, we ought to 
drink cold water with a teaspoon. When thirsty and 
heated, the first, thing to do is to dip the hands in cold 
water deep enough just to cover the wrists ; then dip a 
towel in the water, lay it on the forehead, and then drink 
cold water with a teaspoon. 

A few drops of vinegar or lemon-juice may be added 
to the water. If exceedingly hot, keep your hands in 
cold water and the towel on your forehead at least one 
minute before drinking. 

HOT WEATHER. 
A remark or two on eating and drinking in hot weather 
are always in season. Green vegetables, properly cooked, 
are certainly healthful in warm weather ; bat it is a mis- 
take to think that meat should be excluded ft-om sum* 
mer diet The hotter the weather, the more the system 
wastes, and theiefore the more we must supply. 



22 DIBECnONS, EXPLANATIONS, ETC. 

In order to keep the body In a healthfdl condition^ 
meat ought to be eaten at least once a day in smnmer- 
time. It would be well to vary this programme by taking 
one meal of fish on every other day. 

Fat should be disused as much as possible. A very 
little good butter with your fresh radishes at breakfast is 
as much fat as is necessary. 

COLD WEATHER. 

Fat meat is good in winter and is relished; so are 
dry vegetables and saccharine substances. 



I 



FOOD. ^ 

Nature has provided man with a mind^ in order that 
he should study what kind of food suits his constitution ; 
he who does not do it, is not above the lower animak. 

^' Good things have been made by the Creator for good 
people, flowers have certainly not been made for brutes^ 
either quadruped or hipedJ^-— Jefferson. . 

** It is from good things that, in a human point of view, 
we derive the strength necessary to our limbs, let ua 
partake of the same and be thankful." — Hev, — Chadhand. 

Hive your food selected and prepared according to 
constitution, occupation, climate, age, and sex. 

Waste in females is greater than in males. 

Animals, generally,, are very careful in selecting their 
food. 

A temporary bloatedness may be obtained, especially 
with the young, by eating much farinaceous food, such as 
pancakes, etc., but it does not last, and is sure to bring 
on disease or sickness, or both. 

Man is omnivorous, and must be fed accordingly. 

Extreme leanness comes from want of proper food, 
either in youth or old age. 



DmECnONB^ EZPLANATIOKS, KTa 23 

It is not tihe amount that is eaten which nourishes, but 
the amount that is digested ; an excess of food is as bad 
as a lack of it. 

Good and well-baked bread is nutritious and healthful, 
while unbaked bread is heavy and difficult of digestion. 

Take at least half an hour's rest after a hearty meal, for 
mind and stomach cannot work at the same time. 

Never eat when angry, or tired, or when heated ; but 
be as cool and as gay as possible, for food being exposed 
to a heat of about 100 degrees Fahr, in the stomach, would 
ferment instead of digesting. 

Take a hearty but by no means heavy dinner. 

Eat slowly, at regular hours, and masticate well, but do 
not bolt your food, or eat any thing that does not taste good. 

Drink slowly, moderately, and always taste before 
swallowing. 

Yary your food as much as possible. 

Always have at least one dish of vegetables for dinner, 
besides meat, and also ripe fruit 

See that every thing you eat or drink is of a good 
quality, wholesome and properly prepared. 

ECONOMY. 

There is not a word so much misused in cooking as the 
word economy. 

Prejudice comes for a large share in the use of it. 

How many things are thrown away, or wasted by mere 
prejudice or ignorance I 

It is often from economy that a woman washes meat, 
because some part of it does not look clean. Instead of 
washing it, do not buy it ; or, if bought, cut off a thiil 
slice and throw it away : it is more economical than wash- 
ing the whole piece, wluch you partly destroy by the 
process. 



24 DIBEOnONS, EXPLANATIONS, ETO« 

It 18 with a yicw to economy, that an old, bad custom 
prevails of boiling coffee. What an economy of sending 
the best part of the coffee (the aroma) to the attic, and 
the rest to the dining-roooL A bad drink can be made 
cheaper with many things than with coffee. 

Tea is also boUed with an eye to economy. 

EGG-BEATER. 

We have tried five different Mnds in Boston, before a 
large audience and on the demand of an inventor of one, 
but none could beat eggs as well as a common hand-beater. 
The whites of the eggs could not be raised with any of 
the others much more than half as much as with the com- 
mon one ; and besides, could not be beaten stiff. 

Many persons do not succeed in making cakes of 
4ifferent preparations in which whites of eggs beaten to 
a stiff froth are used, because the eggs are not properly 
beaten. 

Any tinsmith can make an egg-beater. It is generally 
made with tin-wire, but may be made with brass-wire. 

With the cut below, as a model, it can be easily made. 




The handle a is of tm, kito which the tin wires b are 
fastened and soldered. 

EKRORS IN COOKING. 

Ignorance produces abuse or error, or both. Blissful 
ignorance may be a fine thing in some cases, but either in 
preparing or partaking of food, it is certainly more than an 
abuse, it is a dangerous error. 



DIRECnONS, EXFLANATIOKfl, STO. 26 

It is by ignorance or disease that man abases wine or 
any other liquor. 

It is by ignorance or prejudice that many eschew the 
best and most healthful of condiments, such as garlics, on- 
ions, etc. They dislike them on account of their pungent 
taste when raw, not knowing that when cooked it is all 
evaporated. Their pungent taste comes from the volatile oil 
they contain, and which evaporates in cooking ; it cannot 
be retained, but their sugar is retained, and gives such a 
good flavor to gravies and sauces. 

FENNEL. 

This is said to be a native of the Canary Islands ; it has 
a very strong taste, and is used as a spice, especially in blood 
pudding. The Romans used a great deal of it. 

FIG. 

The fig-tree comes from Mesopotamia. Figs are gen- 
erally served as kors-cTceuvref or used in puddings, etc. 

FINES HEBBES. 

Parsley and cives chopped fine, and used for omelets, 
or with cold meat, sauces, etc, are called thus. 

FLOUR. 

In cooking, new flour is not as good as old ; it does 
not thicken as well and as fast 

FOIES 6RAS. 

FcieSf or pdtes de foies gras are made with geese-livers, 
fresh fat pork, trufles, ham, fineB herhes, and spices. 

2 



26 DIBEOnONS, EXPLANATIONS, ETC. 

They are always served cold as a relevi or entree^ but 
most generally they are used for luncli or snpper. 

FRUIT-CORER. 
There are many sizes in the set, to core from a pine- 
apple to a cherry. 




GALANTINE. 
The word galantine means a hoMd birdj or a boned 
shoulder of veaL 

GLAZING. 
Glazing is generally done by means of a brash or with 
feathers. A beaten egg^ or syrnp, or jelly, or e^ and su- 
gar, etc., are nsed to glaze cakes, etc. It is done by dip- 
ping the brush into the egg or jelly, and by spreading it 
on the cake or other object before baking or before serving, 
as directed in the different receipts. It is also done by 
sifting powdered sugar on cakes which are put back in the 
oven for a short time — that is, the time necessary to melt 
the sugar. 

INDIGESTION. 

A cup of tea and camomile, half of each, with a few 
drops of orange-flower water, and the whole well sweet- 
ened and taken warm, is very good after having eaten 
something difficult to digest. 

ITALIAN PASTEa 
Macaroni, vermicelli, and the like dry pastes, are called 
Italian pastes, whatever the shape — around, oval, or star-like. 

ISINGLASa 
It is sometimes used instead of gelatine to make jellies. 



DISJUUIONB, ILZPLANATIONB, ITTO. 27 

JELIT-BAQ. 
Make a conical bag of good white flannel, abonl 
twenty inches long, fifteen inches broad at one end when 
spread on a flat sor^e, or about thirty inches in clrcnm- 
ference, the other end being the point. Sew to it fonr 
pieces of white tape at the la^e end, and at eqnal dis- 
tances, so that two sticts may be mn into them. The 
sticks are placed on chairs or something else, in order to 
have the point of the bag about one foot ftom the floor. 
It is then ready to pass the jellies throngh it. 



KITCHEM UTENSILS. 

GastronomistA use, in preference to any thing else, crock- 
ery or earthen pans ; or, for want of these, bloct-tin pang. 

Copperis, in the end, the cheapest of all; but American 
cooks do not like them because tbey reqnire too much care 
and must be examined GTCry day ; to prevent any accident, 
it is necessary to keep the inside properly lined. 

Many indispositions are caused by food prepared in 
copper not properly lined ; even food allowed to cool in a 
well4ined pan wonld be dangerous. 

Pans lined with porcel^ are excellent, but the trouble 
with them is, that they <Tack, and after that cannot bi 



28 DiREcrnoKS, explanations, etc. 

deaned ; something will always remaiD between tlie lining 
and the iron, and spoil every thing cooked in them. 

The tin-lined are preferable, on account of being easily 
cleaned by means of a small birch-broom, washing-soda, 
and boiling water. 

LAIT DE POULE. 

Mix well in a tmnbler a yolk of egg and a teaspoon- 
fill of sugar ; then add a few drops of orange-flower water 
{eau de fleur cToranger) ; pour boiling water on the whole, 
little by little, stirring the while, and drink warm. 

The quantity of water is according to taste. 

A gill of water to a yolk of egg makes it thick enoogh. 

It makes an excellent drink, to be taken just before re- 
tiring, for persons with coughs 

LARD. 

Never buy lard ready made if you can help it, but 
take hog's &t, the part enveloping the kidneys, or leaf 
lard, and chop it fine, put it in a cast-iron or crock- 
ery kettle with a bay-leaf and a stalk of thyme to every 
two pounds of fat ; set on a moderate fire, and as soon as 
it begins to melt, take the melted part out with a ladle, and 
put it in a stone jar or pot; be careful not to take any 
pieces of fat not yet melted. Contmue that process till it 
is all melted. 

The dry or hard part that remains at the bottom of 
the kettle when done is no good. 

Lard made thus is as white as snow, and may be kept 
a ong time. 

When there is water in lard, it flies all over the fire ; in 
that case, boil it a few minutes with a cover on the pam 
and then use. 



DIBBCnOKS, BZPLAKATIONB, ETO. 29 

I'AT FOB FBYING. 

Take beef saet, the part around the kidneys, or any 
kind of fat, raw or . cooked ; remove as mncb as possible 
fibres, nerves, thin skin, or bones ; chop it fine, put it in a 
cast-iron or crockery ^kettle ; add to it the fat yon may 
have skimmed from the top of broth, sauces or, gravies* 
Set the pan on a moderate fire ; boil gently for about 
fifteen minutes, skim it well during the process ; take from 
the fire, let it stand about five minutes, and then strain. 

Put it in a stone jar or pot, and keep it in -a dry and 
cool place. Cover the jar when perfectly cold. 

It is as good as lard and more handy ; it docs not fly 
over the pan like lard. 

A careful cook seldom buys fat ; generally there is 
enough coming from skimming of broth, sauces, and gravies, 
for every purpose. 

TO CLARIFY FAT. 

Set the fat on a moderate fire in a pan, and as soon as it 
commences to boil, place a slice of bread dried in the 
oven in it, boil gently for about half an hour; take from 
the fire, let it settle for a few minutes ; remove the bread, 
turn gently into a jar or pot, leaving the dregs in the pan. 

Chicken^ Turkey, and Goose Fat, — ^The fat of the above 
birds is never used to fry, but to saute instead of butter. 
To make omelets it is excellent ; an omelet is whiter and 
more sightly made with chicken-fat than when made with 
butter. It 13 clarified as directed above. 

GAME-FAT. 
Game-fat can be used instead of other fat and also 
instead of butter, to sautSy or what is generally called 
partly fry, game ; it may also be used, instead of butter 
to bake game 



30 DIBECnONS, EZPULE^ATIONS, ETC. 

It must be clarified Icmger than other fat, but in the 
same way. 

The boiling of fat with water, as indicated in some 
cook-books, is only a fancy and extra work, it has no effect 
whateyer on the fat. It is the same by keeping it for hours 
in a bain-marie ; it does not change it in the least 

BATTER FOR FRYING. 

For frying Vegetables, — ^Put three tablespoonfuls of 
flour in a bowl with two yolks of eggs, and cold water enough 
to make a kind of thin paste, then add salt and half a 
teaspoonful of sweet oil ; mix well Beat the two whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth and mix them with the rest 
Put the batter away in a cold place for at least two hours, 
and use. 

It must not be put away longer than for half a day. 

Another. — ^Proceed as above in every particular, except 
that you use milk instead of water. 

For frying FiaTu — ^Make it exactly as the above, except 
that you do not use any oil. 

For frying Fritters. — ^Mix well together in a bowl three 
tablespoonfuls of flour with two yolks of eggs and cold 
water enough to make a thin paste ; add a pinch of sugar, 
rum or brandy, or any other liquor, according to taste, 
from one to three or four tablespoonfuls, mix well again, 
and put away for at least two or three hours, but not 
longer than twelve hours. 

Fggs and Crumbs for frying. — ^The eggs are beaten as 
for omelets, with a little salt The objects to be fried are 
dipped in the eggs first^ then rolled in bread-crumbs 
and fried. 

Another. — ^When rolled in bread-crumbs as above; 
dip again in the eggs, roll again in bread-crumbs and fry. 



DISEOnOKS, EZFLANATIONS, £T0. 31 

Another, — ^Dip the object in melted butter, then in 
eggs, and roll in bread-crombs ; fiy, 

LARDING. 

All pork-butchers sell salt pork for larding. Cut it in 
slices and then by cutting the slices across it makes square 
strips or fillets. 

The strips must be of a proper size to be easily inserted 
into the larding-needle, and are about two inches and a 
half long. 

When the needle is run half way through the meat, 
insert the salt pork into it, pull the needle off and leave 
the salt pork inside of the meat, both ends of it sticking 
out 

If it were running through, that is, if the salt pork 
were pulled off with the needle, most likely the strips are 
too small ; then poll slowly, and when the salt pork is far 
enough into the meat, press on it with the finger and pull 
the needle, it will then stay in its proper place. It is 
better to cut a few strips first and try if they are of a 
proper size. 

If, in puliing off the needle, the salt pork does not 
enter the meat, the strips are too large. 

If the strips are of a proper size and break while pull- 
ing the needle oT, then the pork is not good. 

IVicandectUf sweetbreads, birds, etc., are larded in the 
same way. 

For beef h la mode, it is described in the receipt 

LAKDING-NEEDLK 

The best are made of brass. Those that are sold for 
steel are generally of iron, and break easily. 

Those for beef ^ la mode are of steel, and must be flat 
Dear the point, in order to cut the meat 



82 DEBEOnONS, EXPLANATIONS, ETC. 

LEAVEN. 
Enead fonr onnces of flour with baker's yeast, enough 
to make a rather thick dough ; give it the shape of a 
rather flat apple ; with a sharp knife make two cnts on the 
top and across, and through about one-third of the paste ; 
put the paste in a pan of lukewarm water. In a few 
minutes it will float ; take it off and use then after it has 
floated about two minutes. 

HEAT. 

The time it takes to coo!k meat depends as much on 
the quality of the meat as on the fire. Some persons like 
meat more done than others ; in many cases you must con- 
sult your own taste or that of your guests. 

Beef, lamb, mutton, and game, may be eaten rather 
underdone, according to taste ; domestic fowls must be 
properly cooked ; but pork and veal must always be over- 
done, or else it is very unwholesome, if not dangerous. 

The following table may be used as a guide : 

Bear and BafBilo, allTe-poimd piece,... 6to71in. 

Wild Boar and Woodchuck, Bo. do. .. 8to4hra. 

Beef, Do. do. .. lhr.80m. 

Do a ten ponnd piece,... 2hrB. 80 m. 

Capon, a laige one, Ihonr. 

Chicken, a middling-eized one, 45 ndn. 

Duck, a large one, 46min. 

Do.. a small one, SOmln. 

Goose, a large one, 8 hours. 

Do a small one, Ihr.dOm. 

Grouse, Heafhcock, Snipe, and W'dcock, a fiit one, 80 min. 

Do do. do. do. ...a lean one, 80 min. 

Guinea Fowl, , a middling-sized one, Ihonr. 

Hare, an old one, Ihr. 80 m. 

Do a yonng one, aboat 1 hr. 

Lamb and Kid, ...a large quarter, Ihonr. 

Do. do asmall one, 45min. 

Mutton, afbur-pound piece,... 1 hour. 

Da asiz ** ** .. Ihr.SOm. 

Partridge, Pheasant, and Frairie-Hen,. . . .a middling- sized one, 80 to 45 m. 
Pigeen, • one, 80m1n. 



DIRECTIONS, EXPLANATIONS, ETC. 33 

Fork, atwo-poimdplece,... 1 hr.lSm. 

Do. afoup " " .. 2hoiirB. 

Qaail, one, aOmin. 

Sncklng-Pig, a large one, Shn. 80 m. 

Do. do asmallone, 2 hoora. 

Rabbit, a middling-sized one, 80to4fimin. 

Bobin, Blackbird, Fig-pecker, High- 
holder, Lapwing, Meadow Lark, 
Hover, Beed-bird, Thnush, Yellow- 
bird, and other email birda, .....15 to SO mtai. 

Turkey, a large one, Ihr. 80 m. 

Do • asmallone, aboatlhonr. 

Veal, .a two-pound piece,.. 1 hr. 15 m. 

Venison,.... afonr ** " .. abontl hour. 

The following table may be used as a guide to know 
how long meat may be kept, in a cool, dry, and dark 
place ; and protected from flies or other insects : 

In Shimmer. ih Winter. 

Bear and Bnlblo, 8 to 4 days. 10tol5dayflL 

Wild Boar and Woodchnck, 8to4 " StolO '' 

BeefandPork, 2to4 " 6tol0 " 

Capon, 2to8 " 4to 8 ♦' 

Chicken, old one, 8to4 ** 4tol0 " 

Do. yonngone, lto2 " 2to 6 " 

Deer, Partridge, Pheasant, Prairie-Hen, Quail, 

Gnlnea-Fowl, and Turkey,... 2to8 " 6tol0 " 

Dnck and Goose, 8to4 " 4to 8 " 

Hare and Rabbit, 2to8 " 4to 8 " 

Gronse, Heathcock, Snipe, and Woodcock, . . 8 to 4 ** 8 to 15 " 

Lamb, Kid, Sucking Pig, and Veal, 2to8 " 8to 6 " 

Mutton, 2to8 " 6tol0 " 

Pigeons, Blackbirds, Fig-peckers, High- 
holders, Lapwings, Meadow Larks, 
Plovers, Reed-birds, Robins, Thrushes, 

Tellow-birds, and other small birds, ... .2 to 8 ** 6 to 10 *' 

The time must be reduced one-half in summer, in 
stormy or damp weather, and one-third in winter, in 
thawing or rsdny weather. 

Fish. — ^When cleaned and prepared as directed, place it 
^n a crockery stewpan, cover it with cold water, add a lit- 
tl© salt, two or three sprigs of thyme, and one or two bay- 
leaves. It will keep thus for some time. 

2* 



34 DIHBIOTIOHB, EXPI.ANATIOITB, ETC. 

MOTTIDa 
Mould for Meat Put. — A mould for meat pies may be 
round or oval ; it mnat be in two pieces, fastened tt^ther 
by a kind of binge. Wben tbe pie is baked, the wire 

pin holding tbe monld is palled, and the mould remored. 



Mould for Pies, Jellies, efc.— This iDOuld may bo 
used for any thing that requires a mould ; it may also be 
round, oval, or of any other shape. 



OLIVES. 

Fresh and ripe they are served as dessert with other 
fruit. Preserved, they are served as a kort-d'ieuvre, and 
used to flavor and decorate different dishes. 

Olives aa well as sardines are healthful and conudered 
one of the best hora-d'ceuvre. 

OSUAZOKE. 

Osmazome is found in beef, muttoD, flill-grovm dome^ 
tic fowls, venisoD, and game ; in the latter, when the bird 
or animal is adult 

In meat soap, the osmazomu is tbe soluble part of tbe 
meat that dissolves in boiling, and mates nutritioui 
broth. 



DIBECnONS, EXPLANATIONS, ETO. 35 

In broiled or roasted pkces, it is that part which 
maJLos a Mnd of brown crost on the surface of the meat, 
and also the brownish part of the gravy. 

Chicken, lamb, sacMng-pig, veal, etc., do not contain 
may osmazome. 

PAKSLJEY, CHERVIL, THYME, CELERY, SAGE, ETC.,— FOR 

WINTER USE. 

Hang in the shade, under a shed, or in a garret, and 
in a clean and dry place, some small bunches of parsley, 
chervil, celery, etc., the roots upward ; leave them thus 
till perfectly dry, then place them in your spice-box for 
winter use. 

The best time for drying them is at the end of Octo- 
ber or the beginniDg of November ; dig them up in fine 
and dry weather, so as to have them clean without wash- 
ing. 

Soak in cold water half an hour before using. 

WHITE PEPPER. 

This is black pepper decorticated. 

Put peppercorns in a bowl, cover with cold water, and 
leave thus till the skin is tender ;• then drain. Take the 
skin off, let it dry, grind it ; place with your other spices^ 
and use where directed. It takes many days for the skin 
to become tender. 

QUALITY OF MEAT, FISH, VEGETABLES, FRUIT, ETC. 

The quality of meat depends entirely on the quality 
of food with which the animal has been fed. 

For fish, the taste or quality is according to the kind 
of water in which they have lived; fish firom a muddy 
pond smell of mud, while fish from a clear brook are de- 
licious. 



86 DIEEOTIONS, EXPLAITATIONS, ETC. 

The same difference exists in vegetables and fruit; 
their quality is according to the quality or nature of the 
ground in which they have been grown. 

PASTRY-BAG. 

A bag for pastry is made with thick, strong linen ; of 
a conical shape, about one foot long, eight inches broad 
at one end when spread on a fiat surface, and which 
makes about sixteen inches in circumference, and only one 
inch and a quarter at the other end, and in which latter 
end a tin tube is placed, so that the smaller end of the 
tin tube will come out of the smaller end of the bag. 
Putting then some mixture into the bag and by pressing 
from the upper end downward, the mixture will come o»t 
of the tin tube. 

RAW MATERIALa 

If American cookery is inferior to any other general- 
ly, it is not on account of a want of the first two requi- 
sites — ^raw materials and money to buy them ; so there is 
no excuse for it, both are given to the cooks. 

Here, where markets rival the best markets of Europe 
and even surpass them in abundance, it is really a pity to 
live as many do live. 

SCALLOPED KNIFE. 
This knife is used to cut beets, carrots, turnip-rooted 
celery, potatoes, radishes, and turnips ; in slices, round, ob- 
long, or of any other shape ; either to decorate dishes, or 
to be served alone or with something else, or to be 
fried. 



::ttmmm 




The annexed cuts will give an idea of what can be done 



DIBECnONB, SXPLANATIOHB, BIO. 



with it It is anderstood that the vegetables are peeled 
first 




SHALLOTa 
Shallots come from Sj^ria. Shallot is stronger than 
garlic and onion ; a real Tartar sauce cannot be made willi- 
oat shallot The small, green onion is a good substitate 
for it 



The cnts below are skewers. The common ones are 
nsed to &wten pieces of meat together ; to roast or bake 
sniatl birdd, liver in broehette, etc., etc. 




Those to decorate are only nsed with different flowers 
t vegetables, and stock inside of different pieces of meat 



58 DIBEOnOKS, EXPLANATIONS, ETC. 

as a decoratioD. They are remoyed just before car?^ 
ing. • 

The nse of them is explained in the different receipts. 
They may be different from those seen in the cuts. 

SPICEa 

The cooks of this country generaUy have a queer idea 
of what they call French cookery and French spices. 

Some honestly believe that to make a French dish a 
great deal of pepper and other strong seasonings must be 
put in. 

Many other persons, who have not been in Europe, 
really believe also, that French cookery is what is called 
highly-seasoned. There never was a greater mistake. 

If French cooks use several kinds of spices, and may-be 
more than American cooks, they are not the same ; or if 
some are the same, such as pepper, they use them in much 
smaUer proportions. 

They generally use thyme, parsley, bay-leaf, chervil, 
tarragon, etc., which are aromatic ; but never use (in this 
climate) ginger, curry, cayenne pepper, pimento, catsups, 
variegated colored pickles made with pyroligneous acids, 
etc., and which are very exciting and irritating. 

Some of our readers may naturally ask : How is it that 
French cookery is believed by many to be the contrary of 
what it really is ? 

Because every eating-house, of no matter what size, 
pretends to be a first-rate one ot a fashionable one — and 
to be first-rate or fashionable must, as a matter of course, 
have French cooks, or at least cook French dishes. 

You enter the place, ask for a French dish ; or, ask if 
rou can have such a dish, h la Fran^ise f 

You are politely and emphatically answered in the afr 



Dnusonoiirs^ explanations, eto. 39 

finnative ; and very often the polite waiter says that a 
French cook presides in the kitchen. 

Eesolt ! — ^the cook, be he from the Green Isle or of 
African descent, receiving the order to prepare a French 
dish, pats a handful of pepper in the already too much pep- 
pered, old-fashioned prepared dish, and sends it to the con- 
fident customer as a genuine French dish. 

Said customer never asks a second time for a French 
dish, and prononnces French cookery to be — abominable ! 

STIRRING. 

Never use any spoon but a wooden one to stir any thing 
on the fire or in a warm state. 

STRAINING. 

To strain, is to pass a sauce or any thing else through a 
sieve, a strainer, or a piece of cloth, in order to have it 
freed from particles of every kind. 

Broth is strained to make soup, so as to remove the 
small pieces of bones that may be in it, etc 

SUGAR. 

Sugar plays a very important part in cooMug. It is 
added to cereals, vegetables, and fruit, many of which would 
almost be unpalatable without it, and which are rendered 
not only palatable but wholesome by its action. 

It is the sugar of the caiTot and that of the onion, or 
of the garlic, that gives such a peculiar and delicious flavor 
to gravies and sauces, to beef h la mode, fricandeau, etc. 

Pulverized, — ^When pulverized or powdered sugar can 
be had pure, it saves the trouble to do it ; but often there 
are foreign matters in it and therefore it is better to make 
it; you know then what you have. 



iO DmEonoNS, exflanationb, eto. 

Break loaf sugar into small Inmps, pound it and sift it» 
With a fine sieve, you can make it as fine as you please. 

It was not used in Europe until about the middle of 
the seventeenth century. 

For the cooking of sugar, see Preserves. 

TARRAGON. 

The French name of tarragon is estragon. It is excet 
lent in vinegar and in many fish sauces. It is aromatic, 
sudorific, and stomachic, and grows very well in this coun- 
try. It grows at least twice as large here as in Europe. 

TIN TUBES. 

These tubes are put in the pastry-bag, at the smaller 
end of it, tp make merinffttes, ladies' fingers, etc. ; they 
are of tin, and can be made by any tinsmith. 

They have the shape of a trapezoid or frustum. Two 
are enough for any purpose. 

No. 1. One inch and a half long; one inch and three- 
eighths in diameter at one end, and nine-sixteenths of an 
inch at the other end. 

No. 2. One inch and a half long ; one inch and a half 
in diameter at one end, and six-eighths of an inch at the 
other. 

TRUFFLES. 

Truffles are found in Europe and Africa, where they 
were first discovered. 

The truffle is neither an animal nor a vegetable, although 
it has been classed among the fungi, which has root, and 
the truffle has neither root nor stem. 

The truffle is used for stuffing and flavoring only 
otherwise it is not of much value. On account of theix 



DmECnONS, EXPLANATIONS, ETC. 41 

scarcity, and the difficulty in finding them, they are rather 
costly. 

"We think truffles may be compared to lace — ^both are 
dear, and neither has an intrinsic valae. 

YANILLA 

Is a native of America, extensively used for seasoning 
creams, pastry, etc., to which it gives a delicions flavor. 

Although a native of America, all the extracts of va- 
nilla, as well as others, were formerly imported; but within 
a few years Americans have found out that they are 
able to distil also, and "Burnett's Extract of Vanilla" is 
better known to-day all over the country than any other. 

YEGETABLE SPOONS. 

Yegetable spoons are used to cut potatoes, carrots, and 
turnips; there are different shapes, round, oval, carrot- 
shape, plain, and scalloped. We give here only two, being 
sufficient to explain their use. 

The first (a) is of an oval shape, and makes the cut e; 
{he second (b) is round, and makes the cut d. 

When the vegetable is peeled, place the spoon on it^ 
the convex side up ; holding the vegetable in your left hand , 
press on the spoon with your left thumb, and in order to 
cause it to cut the vegetable while turning it with the right 
hand, first half way or rather when the half of it is inside of 
the vegetable, stop, turn it the other way, causing it to cut 
the vegetable also, then raise it up without turning at all 








4:2 DIBECmONSy EXFLAITATIONS, ETO. 

and you hare in the spoon a piece of vegetable of the 
shape of the spoon, and as seen in the cats. 

WATER, 

Rain-water is for cooking purposes, as for other pur- 
poses, the best, but is seldom used, especially in large 
cities, where it is diflScult to procure it. Another difficulty 
is, when procured it soon gets fouL 

The next best is river-water, or water from lakes. 

By boiling, water evaporates its gases and alkali, and 
IS inferior afterward for cooking purposes, especially for 
boiling vegetables ; therefore, we earnestly recommend to 
use the water at the first boiling. 

When foul water has to be use^ for want of other, if 
no filter, charcoal, sand, or paper can be had to filter 
it, it will improve by boiling it and then exposmg it to 
the air for some time. 

WINES. 

Native wines, when pure, are just as good as any othef 
for cooking purposes. 

It is wrong and a great mistake to underrate native 
wines ; they have a little more acerbity than foreign wines, 
but are not inferior. It cannot be otherwise, being grown 
in a virgin soil, or nearly so. The richer the soil or the 
younger the vineyard, the more acid the wine. 

Cold nights during the ripening of the fruit make the 
wine more acid, not ripening so perfectly. 

Wine is a healthy driQk, and many invalids would 
recover much quicker by a judicious use of it. 

Different wines are used in cooking, and we give the 
names of the best ones in the difierent receipts. 

A little vinegar may be used as a substitute for wine, 



DIBEOnONS, EZPLANAHONS, ETO. 43 

but it is very inferior, and in many dishes it cannot bo 
used at alL 

A few dollars spent during the yearm wine for cooking 
purposes, makes much better and more wholesome dishes. 

White wine contains little tannin ; it retains nitrogen- 
ous matters, and is free from . essential oils; hence the 
superior flavor and quality of brandy made with white 
wines. 

It is more aperient and less nutritive than red wine. 

Essential oils pass in red wine while it is fermenting. 

Wine and sugar with certain fruits are excellent, and 
are known to neutralize the crudity of the fruit, such as 
straw-berries, pears, peaches, currants, etc. 

MOTTO. 

The motto of the New York Cooking Academy is — 

Since we must eat to live, let us prepare our food in 
such a manner J that our physical, intellectual, and moral 
capacities m>ay he extended as far as is designed by (n/r 

CBSATOB. 



DIVERS RECEIPTS. 



ALMONDa 

Two kinds arc used in cooldng, the sweet and the 
bitter. 

They are shelled first, then by ponring boiling water 
on them and leaving them in it for two or three minutes, 
they are easily skinned. 

They are sometimes used as soon as skinned, and some- 
times dried after being skinned and just before usmg. 

When wanted dried, place them in a pan in a slow 
oyen with the door open, and turn them occasionally. 

LEMONADE OR OBANGEADK 
Put two ounces of loaf sugar in a quart of water, also 
the rind of an orange or one of lemon. Half an hour 
after strain the whole, and press into it the juice of the 
orange, and a few drops of lemon-juice. K found too 
strong, add water and sugar. It is a very good drink in 
summer, or for evening parties. A little currant jelly 
may be added to make a variety. 

LEMONADE WITH BAKLEY. 

To the above lemonade or orangeade you add, instead 
of water and sngar, some barley-water and sugar; it is 
very good and very refreshing. 

Barley-water is made by soaking in lukewarm water a 



DIVEBS BEOEIPTS. 45 

pint of barlejy drain it two or three minntes after ; pat the 
barley in a crockery pan, cover it with cold water (about 
three quarts), set it on the fire, and boil till the barley is 
perfectly cooked ; skim off the scum during the cooking, 
drain, let cool, and use the water. 

BARLEY SUGAR FOR CHILDREN. 

Soak a quart of barley in lukewarm water for two or 
three minutes, and drain. Put the barley in a crockery 
stewpan, with four or five quarts of water, and set it on a 
good fire, boil till the barley is overdone, and then take 
from the fire, masb it as well as possible and strain, throw- 
ing away what there is in the strainer, and if the remain- 
der does not make a kind of jelly when cool, the barley 
has not been boiled enough. 

Mix that jelly with sugar and fry it ; it is better than 
any other candy, barley being refreshing, and the princi- 
pal substaDce of it. 

BAVAROISE WITH CHOCOLATE. 

Put in a tin pan a pint of milk, with one ounce of 
chocolate, and two of sugar ; set it over the fire, but do 
not allow it to boil ; stir well with a wooden spoon during 
the process, and when the whole is well mixed, serve warm 
in cups. 

It is an excellent and wholesome drink in the evening. 

The same with Coffee or Tea. — ^Proceed as above in 
every particular, except that you put in the pan a small 
cup of coffee or tea instead of chocolate, and a little more 
sugar. 

BICHOF. 

Put in a crockery tureen two bottles of white wine, 
with an orange and a lemon, both cut in slices ; cover^ 
and place it in a warm place for about ten hours ; then 



i6 DIVEBS BBOEIFTS. 

strain into a vessel, and mix well with the liquor about a 
pound of loaf sugar, and a little grated cinDamon. 

It may be served warm or cold. 

Another way, — Melt a pound of loaf sugar in half a 
pint of cold water, and then mix with it two bottles of 
white wine, a pinch of grated cinnamon, the juice of ao 
orange, and that of a lemon, and use. It takes only a few 
minutes to make it. 

If found too strong, add water and sugar. 

TO PRESEBYE BIRDS. 

Broil or roast, according to our directions, chickens, 
ducks, geese, turkeys, partridges, pheasants, prairie hens, 
quails, etc ; then carve them ; take the bones out of the 
pieces, place them in a crockery pot, which you fill 
with melted butter or lard, and cover well when cold. 
Place the pot in a cool and dry place, and they will keep 
for months. 

When you wish to eat them, take out the quantity you 
want, and place it in a frying-pan, with the butter or lard 
that is around ; fry till warm, and serve. 

BREAD-CRUMBS. 

Put slices of stale bread in a slow oven till they are 
perfectly dried up. Break them in pieces and reduce 
them to coarse powder with a rolling pin ; sift them, and 
they are ready for use. 

Bread-crumbs are better than cracker-crumbs ; the lat- 
ter, when reduced to powder, are too floury, and besides, 
there is always stale bread enough in a kitchen to make 
crumbs. 

The above crumbs are rather brown. 

White crumbs, — Cut m rather lai^ dice the soft part 
of stale bread, put the pieces in a new and coarse towel, 



BIYEBS BSOEIFTS. 47 

rub between tbe bands so as to reduce the pieces of bread 
to crambs ; pass through a colander or through a sieve, ao* 
cording to need, coarse or fine, and use* 

BURNT SUGAR 

Take xa old tin ladle and place it over a sharp fire, 
with two ounces of loaf sugar in it; stir with a stick or 
skewer till it is thoroughly black and burnt. Then add, 
little by little, about one gUl of water ; stir a little, boil 
about four minutes, but not fast, lest it should boil over 
the ladle ; strain, and it is made. 

As soon as cold, bottle it and use when wanted. 

It keeps any length of time. 

It is used to color broth, sauces, gravies, etc. 

It is called caramel in French. 

COFFEK 

It is simple to make cofiee. Of course, when prop^- 
y made, with good berries, the liquor is good. 

When good roasted coffee can be bought, it saves the 
trouble of roasting it, and is, or rathec^ ought to be, 
cheaper than it can be done in a family. 

If coffee is roasted a long time before being used it 
loses much of its aroma, therefore a family ought not to 
roast more than it can use in about a week, while twenty 
or twenty-five pounds can be roasted at one time and by 
one person. 

Three or four different kinds, roasted separately, and 
properly mixed, make better coffee than one kind alone. 

A good proportion is : to one pound of Java add 
about four ounces of Mocha, and four ounces of one or 
two other kinds. 

Good coffee, as well as tea, is said to possess exhila* 
rating properties. 



48 Divi 

Itsuse WAS not kaowa la Earope before 1650. ffeitlier 
was the use of sagar, kibacco, and brandy. 

Good cofiee cannot be made but by leaching. 

The eaaieat utensil b what is called a filter, or cofiee- 
pot, or biggin, according to locality, with a top to diffiuo 
the water. 



IP 



"Hie coffee-pot called " the French balance " i 
the bestrflarored coffee, but it is an expensire one. 



There ue sereral good filters, but the great majority 
of the people find them too complicated for duly nse. 

The bottom of the filter should he of silvered braaa- 
gnnzo instead of perforated tin, as it is generally. 

Ganze-holes being mnch smaller than those of perfo- 
rated tin, the coffee can ho gronnd mnch £ner, and there- 



DITXBS BEOEIFTS. 49 

fore, all the strength and aroma can be had ; while if 
ground coarse, it is utterly impossible. 

Good coffee cannot be made in a utensil often but 
wrongly called a coffee-pot^ which is nothing but a pot, 
and something like a tea-pot. 

With such a utensil, the grounds must be boiled ; and 
as no liquor can be boiled without allowing the steam to 
escape (the steam made by boiling coffee being its aroma), 
therefore the best part of the coffee is evaporated before 
it is served. 

* 

K'ever grind your coffee until ready to make it. 

No matter how air-tight you keep it, the aroma evapo- 
rates or is absorbed. 

Coffee can be ground and made as soon as cool ; but it 
is better to let it stand for about twenty-four hours after 
being roasted. 

If kept as air-tight as possible in a tin-box, it will 
kepp very well for about a week. 

Never buy ground coffee except when you cannot 
help it. 

By taking a pinch of ground coffee and rolling it be- 
tween wetted fingers, it will remain in grains, if pure ; and 
will form in a ball if foreign matters are mixed with it. 

TO ROAST. 

In roasting, good coffee swells about thirty-three per 
cent, and loses about sixteen per cent in weight. 

Roast once a week or oftener. 

Put coffee in the apparatus (cylinder, or drum, or 
roaster), the quantity to be according to the size of the 
roaster, or according to how much is needed. Have a 
rather slow fire at first; when the coffee has swollen, aug- 
ment the fire, turning, shaking, tossing the roaster, some* 

3 



60 DIVEBS BEOEIPTS. 

times fast, sometiiacs slowly, and take from the fire a little 
before it is roasted enough ; the roasting will be finished 
before the coffee gets cold and before taking it from the 
roaster, which you continue turning and shaking as if it 
were yet on the fire. 

A charcoal fire is the handiest, and more easily regu- 
lated. 

It is well roasted when it evaporates a pleasing odor 
and when of a brownish color. 

Then take it from the roaster, spread it on a matting or 
on a piece of cloth, and put it in a tin-box as soon as cold. 

It is exceedingly difScult, if not utterly impossible, to 
roast coffee properly by machinery, and for two reasons: 
in the first place, there is too much of it in the cylinder to 
roast evenly, some berries are burned, others not roasted 
enough ; the other is, that being turned by machinery, the 
cylinder is turned regularly and is neither shaken nor 
tossed ; and even if there were not too much coffee in it, 
some berries would be much more roasted than others. 

TO HAKE. 

Set a kettle of cold water on the fire. Place the ground 
coffee in the filter, and as soon as the water begins to boil, 
pour just enough of it over the coffee to wet it. Put the 
kettle back on the fire, and again, at the fii'st boiling, pour 
it over the coffee rather slowly, and till you have poured 
enough water to furnish the quantity of coffee required. 

If the water does not pass through fast enough, just 
stop pouring for a few seconds, that is, long enough to 
put the kettle back on the fire and start the boiling 
again. As soon as the water has passed through, the 
coffee is made. The quantity of coffee must be accord- 
ing to the strength you wish it, and the quantity wanted, 
or according to age and constitution. 



DIYEBS SEOEIFTB. 51 

Four teaspoonfdls make a quart of yery good coffee 
for breakfast It would be rather strong for children, bat 
can be diluted to a proper state with milk 

No matter what quantity of coffee is put in the filter, 
the liquor must be clear; the more is used, the blacker the 
substance is, but it must never be muddy. If muddy at 
all, be sure you have not used good coffee. 

One pound of good coffee to a quart of water, should 
make black but clear coffee. 

CAF* AU LAIT. 
This IS coffee and milk for breakfast. The milk is set 
on the fire in a tin saucepan, and taken off when it rises ; 
then mixed with the coffee, either in the cup or any kind 
of vessel The proportions are pint for pint. 

CAFjfi NOIR. 

Cafe noir is the name given to the coffee taken after 
dinner. It is generally made rather strong. Gentlemen 
sometimes put liquor in it — ^a glass of brandy, or rum, 
or kirschwasser ; and ladies, a littie cold milk. 

Taken fifteen or twenty minutes after dinner, it helps 
digestion. It excites the faculties of the mind, and gives 
what physiologists call *^ agreeable sensations." 

Coffee is nutritious, and to a certain extent prevents 
waste of the system. 

CHOCOLATE. 

The quantity of chocolate for a certain quantity of milk 
ts according to taste. Two ounces of chocolate make a 
good cup of it» and rather thick. 

Break the chocolate in pieces, put it in a tin saucepan 
with a tablespoonful of water to an ounce of chocolate, 
and set it on a rather slow fire. Stir now and then till 
thoroughly melted. 



52 DIYEBS BEOEIFTB. 

While the chocolate is meltlDg, set the quantity of milk 
desired in another tin saucepan on the fire, and as soon as 
it rises and when the chocolate is melted, as directed 
above, turn the milk into the chocolate, little by little, 
beating well at the same time with an egg-beater. Keep 
beating and boiling after being mixed, for three or four 
minutes; take off and serve. 

If both chocolate and milk are good, it will be frothy; 
and no better or more nutritious drink can be had. 

CHOCJu 
Choca is nothing more nor less than one cup of coffee 
and milk mixed with a cup of chocolate, and for breakfast 

COCOA. 
Put in a tea or coffee cup one or two tablespoonfuls 
of ground cocoa, pour boiling water or boiling milk on it^ 
little by little, stirring with a spoon the while; sweeten it to 
taste. A few drops of essence of vanilla may be added, 
according to taste. 

ESSENCE OF SPINACH, OR GREEN ESSENCE. 
Put two handfuls of very green and fresh spinach in 
a mortar and pound it well Then put it in a saucepan, 
set on a rather slow fire, and when on the point of boiling 
take it off, pass it through a sieve and use. It may be 
kept for some time with a little sugar. 

ESSENCE OF BEEF. 

The essence of beef of commerce is well known. 

To make essence of beef used in cooking and called 
glaee in French, set three or four quarts of broth on a 
slow fire, in a saucepan and reduce it to jelly. Keep it 
timmering all the time ; it may take twenty hours to re- 



DIVEB8 BEOEIFTB. 53 

dnce. When properly redaced, it is of a very dflrk-brown 
color and has a very pleasant odor. 

When cold, it mnst be rather hard* 

When essence of beef tastes like glne and has an un- 
pleasant odor, it is not made properly, or with good beef 

If properly made, it wiU keep any length of time. 

It is used to thicken sauces, to decorate boned birds, 
etc. ; when in a hurry, it may be used to make soup, but, like 
every thing preserved, is of course inferior to fresh broth. 

IdNG. 

Put about three tablespoonfuls of pulverized sugar in 
a bowl with the white of a small egg; and then mix and 
work well for at least five minutes with a piece of wood. 
When done it is perfectly white and rather thick. 

Make a kind of fdnnel with thick, white paper ; put 
the mixture in it, and by squeezing it out, you make deco- 
rations according to fancy, on cakes, charlotte russe, etc 
You make the decorations of the size you please, by 
cutting the smaller end of the paper-funnel of the size 
you wish. 

The mixture may also be spread on cakes with a knife, 
according to what kind of decoration is desired. 

A charlotte russe may be decorated in the same way, 
with the same cream as that used to fill it 

MEAT JELUEa 
Put in a saucepan two ounces of gelatine with three 
eggs and shells, a tablespoonful of salt, the rind of half a 
lemon, a liquor-glass of rum or brandy, or a wine-glass of 
sherry, port, or madeira wine ; mix well the whole. Add 
one quart of broth, twelve pepper-corns ; beat the whole 
well with an egg-beater and set on a good fire; stir gently 
till it comes to a boil ; then move it on a rather slow fire; 



54 D1VEK8 BEOEIFTS. 

boil slowly for about eight minutes and tarn into the jelly- 
bag. Have two bowls at band to be used alternately; 
have one under the bag before turning the jelly into it ; and 
when it has passed through the bag once, turn it into the 
bag again, putting the other bowl under ; repeat this three 
or four times, and it will be perfectly clear. Just before 
taming into the bag the first time, a few drops of burnt 
sugar are added to give the jelly an amber color. Use the 
jelly immediately if wanted in liquid form, as to fiU a 
meat-pie, etc, or put it on ice to congeaL 

Boned'turkey Jelly. — As soon as the water in which 
you have boiled a boned turkey is cold, skim off the &t 
and strain it. Then proceed exactly as for meat jelly, ex- 
cept that you take one quart of the above instead of one 
quart of beef broth. 

Boned-chicken Jelly, — ^Prepare the water in which the 
boned chicken has been cooked, the same as above ; take a 
quart of it and proceed as for meat jelly for the rest. 

For jelly to decorate any boned bird, the water in 
which it has been cooked may be used, as described above* 

Calves^ 'feet Jelly, — Scald well four calves' feet^ and split 
each in two lengthwise. Put them in a saucepan with 
about three pints of water, two onions, two cloves, two 
cloves of garlic, six sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a stalk 
of celery if handy, salt, and half a dozen pepper-corns. 
Set on the fire, boil gently till well cooked. Serve the feet 
with a potdette or vinaigrette. 

Strain the liquor ; put in it two eggs with their shells, 
salt, rum or wine, as in meat jelly ; beat the whole well 
with an egg-beater; set on a good fire, and finish like 
meat jelly. 

Calfs'head Jelly, — ^Proceed as for the above in every 
particular, except that you use four eggs, having about 



DIYEBfl BE0EIFT8. 55 

twice as much liquor, therefore making twice as much 
jelly. A litUe gelatine may be added, if not found firm 
enough. 

MEAT GRAVY. 

When you are short of gravy, cut a little piece of veal, 
say half a pound of the breast or neck piece, or trimmings 
of veal-cutiets ; set on the fire with about an ounce of but- 
ter, and half of a rather small carrot cut in slices ; stir, and 
when the meat is turning rather brown, add two or three 
onions in slices also ; stir again till the onions are nearly 
fried ; when covered with broth or water, add salt, a dozen 
whole peppers, a bay-leaf^ and two stalks of thyme ; boil 
gently for two or three hours, and strain. 

If it is boiling away, add water to fill up. 

Trimmings of mutton, lamb, bee^ chicken, or turkey, 
may be added to the veaL 

In case of hurry, it may be done quickly and by 
boiling rather fast, but it is not as good, and there is less 
of it with the same quantity of meat. 

For a grand dinner, the gravy may be made one or 
two and even three days in advance ; then simmer it for 
five or six hours. 

HELONa 

Musk-melons are always served as a hors-d^cmvrey but 
must be eaten immediately after soup, or the first thing of 
all if no soup is served. 

It is a great mistake to serve melons as a dessert 

Water-melons, though eaten abundantly, are consid- 
ered very unwholesome by the great majority of doctors, 
chemists, and physiologists. 

Musk-melons are served in slices with sugar, or with 
salt and pepper, according to taste. 



56 DIVERS BEOEIPTB. 

HEUNllSlE. 

Mix well together in a cup one teaspoonful of flonf 
with a tablespoonfiil of cold water. 

It is used to thicken sances and different dishes. 

MINT. 

Pnt fonr sprigs of mint into a qnart of brandy, cork 
well, or cover air-tight if in a pot, and leave thus forty- 
eight hours; then straiu through a cloth. Put half a 
pound of loaf sugar in a stewpan with a pint of water, set 
it on the fire, and, at the first boiling, pour it into the 
quart of brandy; cover with a cloth, let it cool, and 
again strain the whole through a fine cloth. Bottle and 
cork carefully, and use when wanted. 

A small liquor-glass of it is very good for stomach- 
ache; it is also useful after having eaten any thing 
difficult of digestion. 

PANADE. 

Break in pieces the soil part of a small stale loaf of 
bread; put it in a tin saucepan, cover it with cold water, 
and leave thus about an hour; then mash it well, set it on 
the fire, add salt, butter, and sugar, to taste; simmer about 
an hour, then add again two yolks of eggs beaten vrith 
two tablespoonfuls of cream or milk ; mix the whole well 
together, and serve. 

It makes an excellent food for infants. 

PAP. 

Put an ounce of butter in a tin saucepan, set it on the 
fire, and when melted, turn into it two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, thoroughly mixed with half a pint of milk ; stir with 



DIVEBS BEOEIFTS. 57 

a wooden spoon, boil gently for about twelve minatefl, 
stirring tbe while ; take off, tnm into a bowl, add salt and 
sugar to taste, and use. 

If wanted richer, an egg may be mixed with the flour 
and milk, or a yolk of egg may be added as soon aa 
taken from the flre. 

RAISINS. 
When the stems of raisins or of currants are removed, 
put them in a bowl, dust them well with flour, move them 
round a little, then turn them into a sieve and shake them 
well. This process will remove the sand as well as 
washing them, and will not take away the sweetness. 

SANDWICHES. 
These are too well known to require any direction. 

SAUSAGE-MEAT. 

Butchers generally, with an eye to economy, make 
sausage-meat of badi)r tainted pork. 

We recommend our readers, as far as possible, never 
to buy sausage-meat ready made, bat to make it them- 
selves, or have it made according to their directions. 

A chopping-machine costs very little, and saves a 
great deal of work, besides chopping much better than 
can be done by hand. 

The proportions are : one pound of lean pork and one 
pound of lean veal, chopped- very fine, well mixed, and 
both very fresh. Season with salt, pepper, nutmeg and 
clove grated, and with cinnamon, if liked. 

A yolk of egg may be added to a pound of meat. 

It may also be made with one pound of veal and 
half a pound or less of pork, or with veal only or pork 
only, according to taste. 

3* 



58 DIYESS BECEIFTS. 

SOUSE. 

Put three ounces of batter in a saucepan, and set it on 
the fire ; when melted, add two carrots and two onions 
sliced, stir now and then tin they begin to turn brown; 
then add about three pints of warm water, half a pint 
of vinegar, one clove of garlic, four sprigs of parsley, one 
of thyme, a clove, a bay-leai^ six peppePK5oms, a little 
grated nutmeg, and salt. Simmer about an hour, strain, 
and it is ready for use. 

Another, — ^Put two quarts of vinegar and about ten 
quarts of water in a stone or crockery vessel, with four 
cloves of garlic, a handful of parsley, six cloves, four stalks 
of thyme, four bay-leaves, half a nutmeg grated, three or 
four carrots, and three or four onions sliced, a little salt, 
and two dozen pepper-corns. Stir and mix the whole well, 
and it is ready for use. 

Pieces of mutton, beef, pork, venison, and bear-meat, 
may be soaked in one of the above preparations from four 
to six days before cooking them. A piece of tough meat 
will be more tender and juicy after being soaked. 

More or less may be made, according to the size of the 
piece of meat. 

TEA. 

There are many ways of making tea ; we might say 
that every one makes it in his own way; but, after 
many experiments and much information, we have found 
the following to be the best : 

Warm the teapot either by pouring boiling water in 
it and emptying it, or by placing it on a comer of the 
range. 

Then put good tea in it (the quantity to be accord- 
ing to the strength and also to the quantity you want), 
aad pour boiling water on the leaves, just enough to wet 



DIYEJEIS SEOEEPTS. 59 

them ; leave thufi about one minute, then pour on all the 
water you want. 

Let it steep no longer than about six minutes, and not 
less than four minutes, before drawing it. 

If allowed to steep longer than six minutes, all the 
astringency of the tea is extracted, and it acts and has a 
bad effect on the nervous system, besides losing most of 
its aroma. 

Chemists and physiologists generally recommend black 
tea, as not affecting the nervous system as much as green 
tea. 

Tea being naturally very astringent, should never be 
served at breakfast. 

Taken after dinner, instead of ixife noir^ it has the 
same effect, and brandy may be mixed with it as in coffee. 

Tea is excellent in damp climates and marshy coun- 
tries, but it must be taken after a substantial meal. 

Drinking warm tea while eating causes the food to 
pass through the system without nourishing it, or supply- 
ing its waste. 

TOAST. 

Cut several slices of bread of even size, and spread 
some anchovy-butter on them; cut anchovies in small 
strips, lengthwise, lay them on the bread also, and then 
spread over some hard-boiled ^^ chopped fine, and on it 
some parsley also chopped fine, finish with capers here and 
there. 

Place the toast or slices of bread on a dish, tastefully 
arranged all around, a few sprigs of parsley in the middle, 
and you have a fine hors-^aeuvre. 

Sardines, Dutch herrings, or red herrings may be used 
the same as anchovies. 



60 DIVEBS BECEIPTS. 

WELSH RABEBIT. 

This disli is not generally understood It is thought 
by many to be Welsh rabbit, that is, a rabbit prepared 
Welsh fashion. 

It is not a rabbit, but Welsh cheose (a certain Hud 
only, and prepared for that purpose), melted to a certain 
degree, and then spread on toast of Welsh bread. 

Grate some Gloucester or Gruyere cheese and pepper it 
with Cayenne pepper. Fry some slices of bread with a 
little butter, but on one side only, until perfectly yellow, 
then spread a thick coat of grated cheese on the fried 
side of the bread, place the slices in a baMng-pan, put 
them in a pretty warm oven, take oflf when it begins to 
melt, and serve warm. 

Then you have as good a Welsh rarebit as can be 
made here. The receipt was given to tu by an Engliah 
lady. 



POTAGES OE SOFPS, 



PoTAGE is the modem word for soup, and is used in 
billa of fare everywhere. 

Three kmds of liquor are used to make potages : 
broth, milk, and water. 

Besides the liquor, meat, fish, and vegetables are 
used. 

The richest potages are made with consommS and some 
other compounds ; such as bread, Italian pastes, vegeta- 
bles, etc, 

ConsommS means rich broth ; literally, it means con- 
sumed, perfect, that is, properly reduced and partly con- 
sumed, as it is the case in making it Consomme is 
broth reduced to a certain point, according to want or 
taste. 

Broth. — ^Broth is to good cooking what wheat is to 
bread. Dishes (with some exceptions) prepared without 
broth are, to those prepared with it, what rye or com 
bread is to wheat bread. Broth, and especially consommS^ 
are to old age what milk is to the infant. Broth is called 
oouillon in France, and stock in England. The word pot- 
avrfeu means the meat, vegetables, seasonings, spices, and 
the " pot " or soup-kettle itself, i. e,, every thing made use 
of in making broth. The popular meaning of the term 
m France is, the soup and the beef and vegetables served 



62 POTAQES OB SOUPS. 

as releves; and, with the worldng-claases, the onlj thing 
(with bread, wine, and fruit) composing the ^milj dinner. 
The French army is fed on this pot-au-feu three hundred 
and sixty days in the year. 

It is a great mistake to believe that bones or veal 
make good broth ; by boiling or simmering bones or 
veal, you obtain a gelatinous liquid, but not a rich broth 
with a pleasant flavor. When properly made, broth is 
clear. If milky, it has been made with bones, veal, or 
very inferior bee£ 

Broth for Fotages, — Take three pounds of good, lean, 
fresh beef, from any part except the shin. There must 
not be more than two ounces of bone to a pound of meat, 
and the less bone the better. Flace the meat in a soup- 
kettle or iron saucepan lined with tin, with three quarts of 
cold water and salt, and set it on a good fire. After 
about thirty minutes, the scum or albumen of the meat 
will gather on the surface, and the water will commence 
boiling. Now place the kettle on a more moderate fire, 
add one gill of cold water, and begin to skim off the 
scum, which will take only a few minutes. Then add 
one middle-sized carrot, half as much turnip, one middle- 
Bize4 leek, a stalk of celery, one of parsley, a bay-leaf, 
one onion with two cloves stuck in it, and two cloves of 
garlic. Keep the kettle between simmering and boiling 
heat for about five hours. Dish the meat with carrot, 
turnip, and leek around it, and serve it as a reUvi. Strain 
the broth, and it is ready for use. 

If the broth is required to be richer, use more beef 
and less water, but foUow the same process ; if weaker, 
use more water and less beef, but still follow the same 
pro<'.es8. 

Broth for Saveea and ^avie«.— Place in a soup-kettle 



POTAGES OB SOUPS. 63 

«T saucepan fresli bones of bee^ mutton, lamb, veal, or 
poultry— ^f either, or of all; also, bones of tbe same 
meats from roasted pieces ; also trimmings of the same, 
if rerj fresh, with one quart of cold water to every pound 
of bones or meat ; skim it like the preceding, add the 
same yegetables and seasonings, and simmer for at least 
six hours. Then skim off very carefully aU the fat on the 
surface, pass the remainder through a strainer or a sieve, 
and it is ready for use. This broth is certainly very in- 
ferior to the preceding one, but it is excellent for sauces 
and gravies, and is very cheaply made. It may be used 
for potages also ; but, as we have said above, it is very 
gelatinous, and cannot be compared with the highly nutri- 
tious beef broth. 

Broth that is not to be used immediately must be 
cooled quickly after being strained, as the quicker it is 
cooled the longer it keeps. As soon as cold, put it in a 
stone jar or crockery vessel, and place it in a cool, dry, 
and dark place. It will keep three or four days ia winter, 
but only one day in summer. If the weather is stormy, 
it will not keep even for twelve hours ; it turns sour very 
quickly. 

I do not put parsnips or thyme in broth, the taste of 
these two vegetables being too strong. They really neu- 
tralize the fine aroma of broth. Even in this nineteenth 
century there are some pretty good cooks who put thyme 
and parsnip in broth, but they do it by routine. Routine 
is in every thing the greatest enemy of progress. Ancient 
cookery used to put in the pot (old name for soup-kettle) 
a burnt onion to give an amber color to the broth. This 
has exactly the same effect as thyme and parsnip, giving 
it a bad taste, and neutralizing the flavor given to the 
broth by the osmazome of the meat. When broth of an 



64 FOTAGES OB SOUPS. 

amber color is desired, add to it a few drops of burnt 
sugar, the receipt for making which wiU be found else- 
where. 

ConsommL — ^There are two ways of making consom^ 
mi : one is to make broth as above, with the exception 
that five pounds of lean beef, instead of three, are used 
with three quarts of water, and simmered from seven to 
eight hours, instead of five^ the vegetables and seasonings 
being the same ; or by boiling broth gently till properly 
reduced. 

The other way is to roast, until they are only one-third 
done, one, two, or three fowls, not under two years old ; 
then place them in a soup-kettle with three pounds of lean 
beef; wet with three quarts of cold water; skim off as 
above directed ; add the same vegetables and seasonings as 
for broth for potages. After having simmered the whole 
for three hours, the fowl or fowls must be taken out of the 
kettle, and the rest is to be simmered for about three 
hours longer. The meat, vegetables, and seasonings are 
then taken from the kettle or saucepan; the liquor is 
strained, and that liquor is the best consomme that can 
be made ; or by boiling the same, gently, in three quarts 
of good broth, you make consommi also. 

The reason for directing to use one, two, or three fowls 
is, that the more fowls used, the better and richer the 
broth. The fowls after having been thus used may be 
prepared in salad, and make a very excellent dish. 

One pound of beef is enough to make broth for a 
potage for three or four persons. 

Always use fresh meat ; meat with a venison taste or 
tainted would spoil if not entirely destroy the broth. 

To clarify Broth. — If not as clear as wanted, beat the 
white of an egg with a gill of cold broth, and turn into the 



POTAGES OB SOTTFS. 65 

broth ; boil gently about ten ihinntes, and strain through a 
cloth or toweL 

Any kind of potage made with broth may be made 
with coMomme. It may also be made with water, adding 
bntter. With consomm^ it is richer, and with water 
much inferior, than with broth. 

When a rump-piece is used to make broth, it is better 
to bone it first, and take it from the soup-kettle after three 
or four hours ; it is served as a relevSy or prepared as cold 
beef. The broth is finished as directed; the bones 
and vegetables being kept on the fire longer than the 
meat 

Chicken and turkey broth are often called potage de 
iotnte (potage of health). 

Chicken. — ^Roast or bake till turning yellow, a chicken 
oyer two years old. Put it in a soup-kettle with three 
pints of water, and set it on a rather slow fire ; skim off the 
scum, add a middling-sized onion, a leek, a fevv stalks of 
chervil if handy, a middling-sized head of lettuce, and 
salt ; simmer about three hours. Take out the chicken and 
vegetables, skim off the fat, strain, and use. This broth is 
excellent for a weak stomach, and is easy of digestion. 
The chicken is served in salad. 

Turkey, — Procure a rather old turkey and roast or 
bake it til] about one-third done ; put it in a soup-kettle 
with about a pint of water to a pound of meat, and set it 
on a rather slow fire. As soon as the scum comes on the 
surface, skim it off carefully ; then add two onions, two 
leeks, two or three heads of lettuce, a small handful of 
chervil if handy, and salt. Simmer about five hours. 

Use the broth as chicken-broth above, and serve the 
turkey in salad. 

Fish (also called h la Lucullus), — Slice three mid* 



66 POTiX^SS OB BOUFS. 

dling-sizea onions and fiy them with one oonce of batter 
till turning yellow ; add three or four pounds of fish (bass, 
pike, trout, salmon, and the like), any fish having a firm 
and compact flesh, of one or seyeral kinds ; add also two 
carrots, two onions, and one leek, all sliced ; fonr stalks of 
parsley, one of thyme, one clove of garlic, a bay-lea^ one 
clove, six pepper-corns, salt ; cover the whole with cold 
water, set on a good but not brisk fire, boil gently for 
about two hours. If the water is boiling away, add 
some more ; then strain, and use. 

This broth may be used for bisque and fish sauces, 
instead of beef-broth. 

It may be made rich ; for instance, instead of three 
pounds of fish, use six, seven, eight pounds, or more, and 
seasonings in proportion. 

Louis XY. was on a visit to the monastery of Saint 
Denis one day during Lent; after having walked all over 
the grounds and gardens, he was offered a cup of broth by 
the superior. 

Being a little fatigued, he took the cup and drank the 
whole at one draught 

In going back to Versailles, one of his suite, who did 
not like the monk-superior, adroitly alluded to the cup 
of broth, and managed to persuade the king that the 
monk had done it on purpose ; that is, had made the 
king partake of meat-broth, when it was forbidden by 
the Church. 

The next day the monk-superior was sent for and 
brought before the Mng. On hearing the object of the 
summons, he asked the king if the broth had indisposed 
him. Being answered in the negative, he begged to be 
allowed to prepare the same broth before the king him- 
self, which he did, and from that time till his death the 



POTAGES OB 80UF6. 67 

king used to send several hundred pounds of fish daring 
Lent to the monks of Saint-Denis. 

Frog. — Skin and pat the hind-legs of two dozen of 
frogs in cold water for an hoar; drain and pat them in a 
sancepan, and set it on a slow fire ; stir now and then till 
they are taming yellow, then take them off and chop the 
flesh rather fine; pat hack in the pan with a carrot sliced, 
a stalk of celery and one leek, hoth chopped, a Uttle salt, 
and coyer the whole with water. Simmer for aboat two 
hoars; mash the whole throagh a colander, add butter 
which you stir and mix in, and it is ready for use. 

This broth, taken warm before retiriag, is excellent for 
persons having a cough or cold 

It is also excellent for consumptive persons, and is only 
second to snail-broth. 

Another. — ^Take the hind-legs of fifty weH-skiimed 
green frogs, put them in cold water and a little salt for 
half an hour — drain them ; then put them in a crockery 
kettle, with a leek, half a carrot, two stalks of celery, a 
middling-sized parsnip, a turnip, two onions, one clove of 
garlic, two ounces of fat bacon, a little salt^ and white pep- 
per; cover the whole well with cold water, set on the fire, 
simmer gently about four hours ; strain, pour on CT(mUm»^ 
and serve. 

The hind-legs of the frogs are taken from the strainer, 
placed on a dish, and served at breakfast the next day, 
with a white sauce, or in fricassee, as a chicken. 

Gume. — ^Roast or bake, till about one-third done, two 
prairie-hens, and put them in a soup-kettle with about one 
pound of lean beef, salt, and ^"^^ pints of water. Set the 
kettle on a rather slow fire, sMm off the scum when it 
gathers on the surface, and then add half a carrot, two 
stalks of parsley, one of celery, one onion with a clove 



68 FOTAGSS OB SOUPS. 

stuck in it, a bay-leaf, six pepper-corns, and two cloves of 
garlic. Simmer abont three hours, and take the birds oat 
of the kettle ; simmer then two hours longer ; strain, and 
the broth is ready for use. 

Game-broth is warming and stimulating ; it may bo 
taken alone, or prepared with crouUmSy rice, vermicelli, or 
other Italian pastes, the same as beef-broth. 

The prairie-hens are served in salmiSy and the beef is 
served as boiled beef, 

Snail, — Clean and prepare twenty-five snails as direct- 
ed. Put them in a saucepan, with a carrot, an onion, 
and a head of lettuce, ail chopped, a small handful of 
chervil, a few leaves of sorrel, and a little salt ; cover the 
whole with three pints of cold water. Boil slowly for 
about three hours, strain the broth, add a little butter to 
it, and it is ready for use. 

A tumblerful of this broth, taken warm before retiring, 
is certainly the best thing for a consumptive person. 

It is also excellent for a cough. 

Just salt the snails to taste, and eat them as they are, 
warm or cold. 

Veal, — ^Procure two pounds of veal, from the neck or 
breast piece. Put the meat in a soup-kettle with two 
quarts of cold water and a little salt ; set it on a good fire, 
and sMm off the scum as soon as it gathers on the surface. 
When skimmed, add a head of lettuce, a leek (and a few 
stalks of chewil if handy) ; simmer for about three hours ; 
strain, and use. 

This broth, as well as chicken and turkey broth, is ex- 
cellent for convalescent persons. 

It may be made richer by putting a little more meat, 
according to taste; but generally the physician gives di- 
rections. 



FOTiLGBS OB 80UP6. 69 

Another. — Soak a calf's liver in cold water for two 
hours, clean and wash it well ; put it in a soup-kettle with 
about three pints of cold water, salt, boil gently for an 
hour and a half, and then add a handful of water-cresses ; 
simmer fifteen minutes longer, strain and use. 

Another. — ^Proceed as above in every particular, ex- 
cept that you use a handfiil of chervil instead of water- 
cresses. 

Another, — ^TJse three or four leeks instead of water- 
cresses, and proceed as above for every other particular. 

The last three especially make a very refreshing driuk^ 
and are a great relief in some cases of fever. 

Vegetable Broth (called also Bouillon Maigre), — Scrape, 
clean, and slice three carrots and three turnips, peel three 
onions ; fry the whole with a little butter till it turus rather 
yellow ; and then add two plants of celery cut in pieces, 
three or four leeks, also cut in pieces ; stir and fiy the 
whole for about six minutes. When firied, add also one 
clove of garlic, salt, pepper, two cloves, two stalks of pars- 
ley, a little nutmeg grated ; cover with about three quarts 
of water. Keep on a rather slow fire, skim off the scum 
carefully, and then simmer for about three hours. Straini 
and use. 

This liquor is called vegetable broth, and is used in- 
stead of broth in time of Lent by persons who do not want 
to use beef-brotb. 

Another. — Proceed as above, and with the same vege- 
tables till they are fried. Then add salt, pepper, two 
cloves of garlic, four stalks of parsley, three cloves, a little 
nutmeg grated,' two quarts of white beans previously soak- 
ed in cold water for twenty-four hours, and five or six 
quarts of water. Skim it as above ; simmer for about four 
hours ; strain, and use. 



70 FOTAGES OB SOUPS. 

The beans, carrots, turnips, and leeks may be masbed 
through a colander and served in puree. 

Another. — ^Proceed as above in every particular, with 
the exception that instead of using beans, you use peas, 
lentils, chestnuts, or samp. Peas and lentils are soaked in 
water only for four or five hours. Chestnuts must be 
ihelled. Some other vegetables may be added, according 
to taste, and also according to the nature of the vegetables. 

Aryother, — Clean and put in a bowl a head of lettuce, 
a handful of sorrel, same of chervil, same of purslane, and 
all chopped fine ; pour over nearly a quart of boiling wa- 
ter, add two ounces of butter, cover the bowl with a wet 
towel ; leave thus half an hour, and strain. 

When cold it makes a very refreshing drink, and is 
taken morning and evening with salt, to taste. 

It may also be taken warm. 

A la Minute, or made qutckly, — Cut four ounces of &t 
salt pork in dice and set it on the fire in a saucepan ; stir, 
and when it is turning rather brown add one onion chop- 
ped, and half a middling-sized carrot, sliced; stir, and when 
they are partly fried, add also two pounds of lean beef 
cut in small dice ; stir and fry for five minutes. Then 
pour in it about three pints of boiling water, salt, boil 
gently about forty minutes. Strain, and use. 

The beef may be served with the broth, or separately 
as an entree, with a piquante, ravigote, or Robert sauce. 

Bisque of Lobster. — Boil one or several lobsters as 
directed, and when cold split the tail in two, lengthwise, 
take the fiesh out of the shell, remove the black vein that 
is on the back, take out the meat of the two large claws, ^ 
and keep the flesh of the claws and tail for the following 
day's breakfisist. 

For a bisque, nothing is thrown away but the head, 



FOTAGES OB BOUPS. 71 

gtomach, and black yein. The head is the part immedi- 
ately nnder the eyes ; the stomach is a small, round pouch 
immediately behind the head ; and the vein runs from the 
stomach to the end of the tail. 

Put all the rest, shell, small claws, all the matter found 
in the large shell (green, white, or yellow), in a mortar and 
pound welL Then put a tablespoonful of butter in a 
saucepan, set it on the fire, and when the butter is melted, 
put what is in the mortar in, stir with a wooden spoon for 
about ten minutes, then add one pint of warm broth, stir 
for about twenty minutes, and strain. Put the liquor back 
on the fire with about four ounces of toasted bread, boU 
five minutes, and mash through a colander. Put the 
liquor back again on the fire, add one quart of broth, boil 
gently ten minutes, and turn into the soup-dish. 

While it is boiling, chop fine the coral-piece of the lob- 
ster or lobsters, knead it with a piece of butter of about the 
same bulk, then rub both through a wire sieve ; put them 
in the soup-dish with croutons and about two or three 
ounces of the flesh of the lobster cut in very small dice. 
Tom the broth into the soup-dish also, and as directed 
above, and serve warm. 

When there is no coral in the lobster or lobsters, 
knead a hard-boiled yolk of egg with butter in iis stead. 

TIse one, two, three, or more lobsters, according to how 
much soup is wanted. It is not costly, because the flesh, 
or most of it, is kept to make a salad the next day, for 
breakfast or lunch. 

The salad might be served the same day at dinner, but 
lobster is a rather heavy food, and it is more prudent not 
to eat any late in the day. 

Bisqtie of Lobster A la Colbert. — ^Make a Usque as above, 
and while it is on the fire, poach as directed as many eggs 



72 POTAGES OB SOUPS. 

as there will be persons at dinDer ; put tliem in the sonp- 
dish instead of croutons, and serve as above. 

Of Crabs, — ^Proceed as for a bisque of lobster in every 
particular, except that you use hard-shell crabs instead of 
lobster. 

The same h la Colbert. — ^Add to the above as many 
poached eggs as you have guests. 

Of CraW'fisk (Bisque cPHcrevisses). — Our readers who 
have been in Europe will certainly remember the name of 
one of the best soups that can be made. It is made of 
craw-fish the same as with lobster, and is certainly more 
delicate than a bisque of lobster or of crabs. (See Craw- 
fish for other particulars.) 

A bisque of craw-fish may also be served h la Colbert 
the same as a bisque of lobster. 

Bouillabaisse. — ^The real bouiUahaisse is made in Mar- 
seilles ; they make an imitation of it in Bordeaux, and 
in many other parts of France and the Continent ; but, like 
a Welsh rarebit prepared out of Wales, it is very inferior 
to the real one. However, we will give the receipt to 
make it here, and as good as possible with the fish that 
can be procured. 

Put a gill of sweet-oil in a tin saucepan and set it on 
a sharp fire ; when hot, add two onions and two cloves of 
garlic sliced ; stir so as to partly fry them, and then take 
from the fire. Put also in the pan three pounds of fish, 
such as haddock, lialibut, turbot, white-fish — of all if possi- 
ble, but at least of two kinds ; also a dozen muscles, just 
blanched and taken from the shell (some put them whole, 
properly cleaned). The fish is cut in pieces about two 
inches long. Then add one gill of Catawba or Sauteme 
wine, a bay-leaf, two cloves, two slices of lemon, the juice 
of a tomato, salt, pepper, a pinch of safiron, cover with 



FOTAGES OS SOUPS. 78 

cold water, and set the pan back on a brisk fire. After 
about thirty minutes add a teaspoonfiil of chopped pars- 
ley ; boil ten minutes longer, and it is done. 

The pieces of fish are then placed on a dish and 
served. 

Put in a deep dish, and to be served at the same time, 
some slices of bread, over which you turn the sauce 
through a strainer. 

One slice of bread and one piece of fish is served to 
each person, also some sauce. 

It is put in two different dishes, to avoid breaking 
the pieces of fish. 

There are over a hundred ways of making a bauUlO' 
baisse ; the above is one of the best. 

There are also about as many ways of spelling the 
same. 

A bouillabaisse is served as a soup. 

POTAGES. 

A la Colbert — Scrape carrots and turnips and cut 
them in small dice or with a vegetable spoon; add 
green peas and string-beans, if handy, the beans cut in 
pieces ; set them on tiie fire in a pan with cold water and 
salt ; boil gently till done, and drain. Put them back on 
the fire, covered with warm broth, salt to taste, boil gentl} 
about two or three minutes, and turn into the soup-dish, in 
which you have put as many poached eggs as there are 
or will be persons at table. A poached egg with soup is 
served to every person. Proportions of broth and vege* 
tables according to taste. 

JtUienne. — Scrape two carrots and two turnips and cut 
fhem in pieces about an inch and a half long ; cut slicea 
lengthwise about one-eighth of an inch thick, then cut 
4 



74 POTAaES OB SOUPS. 

again across, so as to make square strips. Fat them in a 
■ancepan with about two ounces of batter, three table- 
spoonfuls of cabbage chopped fine, and half a middling- 
sized onion, also chopped ; set on the fire and stir till 
about half fried. Add broth to make it as you wish, thin 
or thick ; boil gently till done ; salt to taste, skim off the 
fat, and serve. It takes about two hours. 

Julienne vnth Mice. — Boil two ounces of rice in water 
and a little salt, till about three-quarters done ; drain and 
put in ihe julienne after having added the broth ; finish as 
above. 

Julienne with Barley, — ^Boil barley till done ; add it 
to the julienne at the same time the broth is added, and 
serve as the above. 

Julienne aux Croutons. — ^Put some croutone in the 
soup-dish, and when the julienne is done, pour it over 
them, and serve. 

Brunoise, — Put an ounce of butter in a saucepan on 
the fire, and when melted, add one carrot, one turnip, a 
little celery, all cut in dice ; stir till they turn yellow, then 
add about a quart of broth, a middling-sized leek cut in 
pieces, a few leaves of lettuce and of sorrel, if handy, and 
a pinch of sugar. Simmer about two hours ; skim off the 
fat ; add a few drops of burnt sugar to color. 

Have croutons in the soup-dish, turn the potage over 
them, and serve. 

Brunoise with Rice. — Proceed as above, except that 
you add from two to four ounces of boiled rice to the 
potage ten minutes before taking from the fire. Serve 
without croutons. 

Another. — ^TJse boiled barley instead of boiled rice. 

A la Monaco. — ^Put some thin slices of stale bread in 
the soup-difth, sprinkle pulverized sugar and orange-rind 



POTAGES OB SOUPS. 75 

grated all over. Pour boiling milk oyer ; cover tbe dish 
for fire minutes, and serve. 

A la jRiffenoe. — ^Put about two dozen quenelles made 
•with cbicken into tbe soup-disb with balf a pint of boiled 
green peas ; turn boiling consomme over, and serve warm. 

A la Moyale. — Make a custard with a dozen yolks of 
eggs, about the same volume of good cream, season with 
sugar, salt, and a little nutmeg ; cook, and when perfectly 
cold, cut it in slices and again cut in fancy shapes with 
paste-cutters or with a knife ; place it in the soup-dish, 
pour boiling consommS gently over, and serve warm. 

Potage Printanier (called also Jardiniere and h la 
Paysanne), — It is a potage ^wZtewne, to which is added the 
top or eatable part of six asparagus, six turnip-rooted red 
radishes, and two or three tablespoonfuls of green peas. 
They are fried, boiled, and served with the other vege- 
tables. 

Veloute. — ^Put yolks of eggs in the soup-dish and beat 
them a little with cold or lukewarm broth ; then pour 
boiling broth over them, little by little, stirring the while, 
and serve warm. 

It is made thin or thick, according to taste. 

With Arrow-root — Set broth in a saucepan on the fire, 
and as soon as it boils, sprinkle some arrow-root into it, 
stirring the while with a wooden spoon ; boil gently for 
about half an hour, stirring now and then the while, and 
serve warm, adding salt to taste. 

Milk or consomme may be used instead of broth. 

If you use milk, add a very little salt and sugar, to taste. 

The proportion of arrow-root to a certain quantity of 
oroth is according to taste ; it can be made thick or thin. 

With Cornrstarch, — Proceed as for arrow-root. 

With Bread. — This is the simplest of all Dry some 



76 POTAGES OB SOUPS 

dices of bread, either stale or fresh, in the oven, place them 
in the sonp-dish, ponr boiling broth over them, cover the 
dish for two or three minutes, and serve. ^ 

With FeeulcL, — ^Proceed as for arrow-root. Being 
finer, it does not require more than about twelve or fifteen 
minutes. 

With Barley. — ^Wash the barley in cold water, then 
drop it in boiling broth, little by little, stirring the while ; 
when in, keep simmering till perfectly done, which you 
ascertain easily by tasting ; add then salt to taste, a pinch 
of sugar, and serve warm. 

It must be stirred occasionally while on the fire. 

With Gruel (French Gmau). — It is made as with 
arrow-root. 

With Indian Meal. — ^Proceed as with arrow-root. 

With Sago.~^»go must be boiled gently about an 
hour; but for the rest, proceed as with arrow-root in every 
particular. 

With Sematde, — ^With semoule it is the same as with 
arrow-root, except that it is boiled only about fifteen 
minutes. 

With Tapioca. — ^Tapioca is prepared like arrow-root, 
but must be boiled about forty-five minutes. 

All the above, like arrow-root, may be prepared with 
eon9ommSj or with milk, as well as with broth. 

With Giblets.-^^Throw the giblets in boiling water and 
a little salt, boil for ten minutes, take off and drain. Drop 
them in broth, boil gently till done, and turn the whole 
into the soup dish, in which you have some leeks, boiled 
tnd cut in pieces. Serve warm. 

Some croutons may be added, and chervil chopped fine, 
just before turning into the soup-dish ; or they may be 
placed in the soup-dish before pouring in the broth. 



POTAGES OB SOtJPS. 17 

With Mackerel. — Clean, prepare, and cut in pieces 
abont one inch and a half long, a mackerel weighing 
abont one pound and a half; fry it with two ounces of but- 
ter till it turns rather brown, then cover with nearly a 
quart of water ; add a few slices of carrot, same of turnip, 
a small onion, two or three stalks of parsley, salt, pepper, 
a clove of garlic, and a stalk of celery if handy; boil 
slowly for about an hour ; mash gently through a colander, 
put what has passed throagh the colander back on the fire, 
add a little butter, give one more boil, turn into the soup 
dish over croutons^ and serve. 

With new Carrots. — ^Take small, young carrots, clean 
and wash them, then blanch them for about five minates. 
Set them on the fire, cover with broth or cansommS; boil 
gently till done, and serve. 

Another. — With carrots and peas. Proceed as above 
till the carrots are half done, then add blanched green 
peas; finish the cooking, and serve. 

Another. — ^Make as the above, but using one or two 
heads «of cabbage-lettuce, blanched for two minutes, in- 
stead of green peas. 

Fancy Potage. — Take twelve very small rolls ; cut off 
one end and remove all the soft part of it ; fill them with 
quenelleB of chicken ; replace the piece cut off as well as 
possible ; place them in the soup-dish ; pour boiling carir- 
sommS or good broth over them ; cover the dish for ten 
minutes, and serve warm. 

With VermiceUi. — ^Drop the vermicelli in boiling water, 
and in which you have put a little salt ; boil ten minutes, 
drain, drop again in cold water, drain again and put it in 
boiling broth ; boil ten minutes ; add salt to taste, and serve. 
With Macaroni. — ^Proceed as for vermicelli in every 
particular, except that it takes twice as long to cook. 



78 FOTAGES OB SOTTPS. 

With Maearani and Cheese. — ^Proceed as for the above, 
and when done, put grated cheese in the sonp-dish, torn 
the macaroni oyer it, and serve. 

With Italian Fortes, — ^No matter of what shape are the 
pastes, proceed as for vermicelli ; the only difference Ls in 
the time of cooking, which depends on the size. 

CansommS may be used instead of broth. If milk is 
used, sugar must be added. 

With Macaroni a la Coriniie, — Set two quarts of cold 
water on the fire, with an ounce of salt, and two ounces of 
butter ; at the first boil, drop into it four ounces of maca- 
roni ; boil five minutes, and drain. Immediately drop the 
macaroni in boiling consiymmej and boil gently till done. 
Drain it again and place a layer of it in the soup-dish, over 
the macaroni ; place a thin layer of Parmesan cheese grated ; 
then a layer of macidoine of vegetables ; then again, a 
layer of macaroni, one of cheese, etc.; pour consommS to 
taste on the whole, and serve warm. 

With Macaroni h la Medici (also called h la N'apoli- 
taine), — Proceed as for macaroni i la Corinne in every 
particular, with the exception that you put also in the 
soup-dish a layer of quenelles of chicken over that of 
macidoine of vegetables, and serve in the same way. 

The quenelles are boiled till done, in broth in which 
you put a few sprigs of mignonette. 

Another, — ^Add to the above about a gill of thick to- 
mato-sauce, just before pouring the consommS over the 
macaroni, etc. 

Macaroni h la Romulus. — ^Prepare eight ounces of 
macaroni as directed for macaroni a la Corinne ; place a 
ayer of it in the soup-dish ; then over it a layer of que' 
nelles of chicken ; over the qfienelles, a thin layer of grated 
Parmesan cheese ; then a layer of thin shces of salt beef 



POTAGES 0£ SOUPS. 79 

ton^e, boiled and skiinmed ; over the latter a layer of 
sweetbreads boUed in broth and cut in thin slices also ; 
and lastly a layer of thin slices of boiled flonnders. Sev- 
eral layers of each of the above may be placed in the sonp 
dish, in the same order; then boiling eonsommi is ponred 
over the whole ; the dish is covered, put in a warm place 
for ten minutes, and served 

Although this dish is a regular potage, and served a? 
such, still many Italians make a meal of it 

With Macaroni a la BossinL — ^Proceed as for maca- 
roni h la Corinne above, with two exceptions : first, that 
you add a layer of quenelles of partridge ; and second, that 
you use consommS of partridge. 

With Macaroni h la St. Pierre. — Proceed also as for 
potage macaroni h la Corinne as far as placing a layer of 
macaroni in the soup-dish ; then put over it a layer of 
boiled soft roe of fish ; over which put a thin layer of 
grated Parmesan cheese ; then a layer of quenelles of fish ; 
another layer of macaroni ; over it, a layer of boiled thin 
slices of salmon ; macaroni again, etc. Pour boiling con- 
sommS over the whole, and serve. 

Although bearing the name of Saint Pierre (St. Peter), 
the above dish has not been devised by the saint ; but, like 
all the above, save that h la Corinne, it has been invent- 
ed by monks. 

With NouUles. — Set broth on the fire iu a saucepan, 
and at the first boiling take the nouiUes from the water 
with a skimmer and put in the broth, stir occasionally and 
boil gently till done. The proportions are according to 
taste. The more broth used for a certain quantity of 
nouUlee the thinner the soup will be, and vice versa. Salt 
to taste, and serve. 

With JPbtatoes, — Cut about half a pint of potatoes with 



60 POTAaBS OB SOUPS. 

a vegetable Bpoon (it is understood half a pint when cut, 
the rest being nsed to make mashed potatoes), and blanch 
them for three minntes, drain and put them in boiling 
broth ; boil gently till about half done, add then two oi 
three tablespoonfuls of green peas; finish the cooking; 
and just before serving add a pinch of sugar, salt to taste, 
turn into the soup-dish, and serve with or without crou' 
tons. 

With Quenelles, — ^Drop qtienellea in broth ; boil gently 
till done, and serve. 

The proportion according to taste. Half a dozen 
quenelles for each person, and about half a pint of broth, 
make a good proportion. 

With Bice. — Put boiled rice in the soup-dish, turn 
boiling broth over it, and serve warm. 

With Turnips, — ^When clean, cut the turnips in slices, 
drop them in boiling water, add a little salt, boil for five 
minutes, and drain. Set them on the fire in a saucepan, 
cover them with milk, and boil gently till done. Mash 
them through a colander, put them back on the fire with 
milk, butter, a little sugar and salt; stir and boil gently a 
few minutes; then add a yolk of egg for two turnips, stir 
in also two or three tablespoonfuls of cream ; stir, but do 
not boil ; put some croutons in the soup-dish, turn the tur- 
nips over, and serve. 

Purie of Split Peas, — ^The proportions vary according 
to taste ; the more peas that are used with a certain quan- 
tity of broth, the thicker the potage will be, and vice versa. 

Soak one pint of split peas in cold water over night 
and drain. Put them in a saucepan with a few slices of 
carrot, same of turnip, same of onion and salt. Cover with 
cold water, set on the fire and boil till done. Drain, and 
then mash through a colander. Put back on the fire with 



POTAOES OB SOUPS. 81 

warm broth to taste— that is, to make the potage thin or 
thick, season with salt or pepper ; boil gently for five min- 
utes, stirring the while ; turn into the soup-dish over crou- 
tans, and serve warm. It may be served without crou' 
*<ms, 

FurSe of Ghreen Peas, — It is sometimes called a la Chan- 
tUly, or h la IVanpaise. Put cold water and a little salt on 
the fire, and at the first boiling throw the peas in ; if they 
are very tender, leave them in only a few seconds ; if large 
and rather hard, boil one or two minutes ; drain, mash 
them through a colander, and finish as the above. 

Puree of Dry Beans, — ^White and dry beans have several 
names, but no matter what kind, they are prepared alike. 
If you are not sure that the beans are new, soak them in 
cold water for about twenty-four hours, and drain. Cook, 
mash, and serve them the same as split peas. 

Purk of Lentils. — Wash the lentils in cold water and 
proceed as for split peas for the rest. 

Puree, of Peas. — Proceed as for split peas. 
With Lima Beans. — Proceed as with green peas. 
With Potatoes. — Steam potatoes, then peel and mash 
them through a colander. Put them back on the fire with 
broth, butter, and salt to taste ; stir, boil a few minutes, 
and serve with croutons. Water or milk may be used in- 
stead of broth. 

With Pumpkins. — ^Peel, take away the seed and cut 
the pumpkin in small pieces ; put them in a stewpan with 
water just enough to cover them, a little salt and white 
pepper, set on the fire and take off when cooked ; throw 
away the water, mash and strain the pumpkin, put it back 
in the stewpan, cover with milk, add a little sugar, set it 
again on the fire, and take off at the first boiling ; pour a 
litde of it on croutons in the soup-dish, and keep covered 
4* 



82 POTAGES OB 80UPS. 

in a warm place for ten minutes ; tlien pour also the r&> 
mainder in, and serve. 

Another, — Prepare as above, throw the pieces in boil- 
ing water with a little salt for five minutes, mash and 
drain ; put butter in a stewpan, set it on the fire ; when 
melted put the pumpkin in, stir about five minutes ; have 
ready in your soup-dish some slices of bread Med in but- 
ter, and dusted with sugar, pour on them some boiling 
milk, keep covered in a warm place two or three minutes ; 
then turn the pumpkin on, at the same time mixing the 
whole gently, and serve. 

With Squash. — ^It is made as with pumpkin. 

With AsparagiLS, — ^Proceed as for green peas. 

With Jerusalem Artichokes, — It is made like that of 
potatoes. 

With Carrots. — ^When made with young carrots, it is 
called potage purie Grecy^ Gihla Crecy, Add broth to 
taste to a puree of carrots, turn into the soup-dish over 
croutons^ and serve. 

With colored Beans, — ^When made with colored beans, 
it is called h la Conde. Proceed as with beans. 

The Prince of Cond6 devised this potage, and besides 
cooking the beans in broth, he used to put in one or two 
partridges also, to give, as he used to say, '* a good taste 
to the beans." 

With Cauliflowers, — Make a purie of cauliflowers, to 
which you add broth to taste, and serve with croutons. 

With Chestnuts. — ^Add broth and croutons to a purie 
of chestnuts, and serve warm. 

With Turnips, — It is made as with carrots. 

With Wheat, — Cut ears of wheat when full, but not 
ripe, and put them away to dry. Shell the wheat ; wash 
it in cold water, put it in a saucepan, cover it with broth 



FOTAGES OB 80UPS. 83 

and boil gently till done. Mash through a colander, put 
back on the fire with a little butter; add broth if too 
thick, stir now and then for about fifteen minutes ; take 
from the fire, add two or three yolks of eggs beaten with 
a little cream and a pinch of sugar; mix them well with 
the rest, and serve warm. 

With Sweet (7om.— Proceed as with wheat in every 
particular. It makes a healthy and excellent potage. 

Water may be used instead of broth, but it is not as 
nutritive. 

With Swallows^ Nesta^ or Chinese Soup. — ^The nests 
are made a mucilaginous substance of, and built by the 
species of swallows called JSTirundo eaculenta; it would 
require several pages to describe them, together with their 
compound material, and would be out of place in a receipt 
book. Suffice it to say, that they sell for $100 a pound 
in London and Paris (gold of course), and the cheapest pot- 
age for one person costs about three dollars. 

^oak about four ounces of it in cold water for ten 
hours, drain and clean. Put it in a saucepan, cover well 
with chicken-broth, place the saucepan in boiling water for 
about two hours, add salt to taste, and then drain again. 
Place the nests in the soup-dish, pour boiling coiisommS 
over them, and serve warm. 

The Chinese are said to use very rich consommS of 
chicken to prepare them. 

With Tomatoes and i2«ce.— Blanch half a dozen to- 
matoes; and skin them. Put them in a saucepan with a 
quart of broth, season with an onion sliced, three or four 
sprigs of' parsley, one of thyme, half a dozen pepper-corns, 
a bay-leaf, two cloves, two cloves of garlic ; salt and pep- 
per. Boil gently till reduced to about two-thirds, when 
mash gently through a colander. It is understood by mash- 



84 FOTAQES OB SOUFS. 

ing gently, to mash so that all the liqmd part shall }>a&s 
through the colander, and the seeds and spices shall be 
retained in it and thrown away. 

While the tomatoes are on the fire boiling, set four 
ounces of rice on the fire with cold water and salt, and boil 
it till tender. Drain the rice, put it in a saucepan with the 
tomato-juice after being mashed, set the saucepan on the 
fire, add one ounce of butter, a teaspoonful of sugar, both 
according to taste ; to make the potage thin or thick, boil 
gently fifteen minutes, turn into the soup-dish, and serve 
warm. 

The same may be done with canned tomatoes ; in that 
case, set a can of tomatoes on the fire with the same sea- 
sonings, and proceed exactly as for the above in every other 
particular. 

The same with Croutons, — ^Fry some croutons with a 
little butter, put them in the soup-dish ; turn the potage, or 
rather the same mixture as above, over them ; cover the 
soup-dish for two or three minutes, and serve. 

With Tomatoes and Croutons only. — ^Pry the croutons 
and put them in the soup-dish; turn the tomatoes only 
over them, after being prepared as above ; cover the soup- 
dish for two or three minutes, and serve. 

Puree h la Reine, — ^Procure a rather old chicken and 
cut it in pieces as for fricassee ; set it on the fire in a sauce- 
pan with about a quart of cold water, salt, and boil gently 
about one hour. Then add about four ounces of rice, 
washed in cold water, continue boiling until the chicken is 
overdone and tender. Take the pieces of chicken from 
the pan, scrape the flesh off the bones ; cut the white 
flesh (the flesh that is on both sides of the breast-bone) 
in dice, and put it in the soup-dish ; chop fine all the 
other flesh, and then mash it through a sieve or strainer, 



POTAGES OB 80T7P8. 85 

together with the rice. If it be rather too thick to mash 
through, moisten it with broth. A large iron spoon is the 
best utensil to mash through with. Then set the rice and 
flesh back on the fire in a saucepan with broth to taste, 
stir and add immediately £rom two to four ounces of but- 
ter, a gill of cream, or, if not handy, a gill of milk. 
Keep stirring on a slow fire for five or six minutes ; salt to 
taste, turn into the soup-dish, and serve. 

There is no danger of curdling if kept on a slow fire 
and not allowed to boil. 

The same with Broth. — ^To make the potage richer, 
cook the chicken and rice in broth instead of water, and 
proceed as above for the rest 

The same with consommS. — The chicken and rice may 
also be cooked in consommiy and ¥^hen mashed through 
the sieve, add conewnmi also instead of broth, and you 
have an exceedingly rich soup. This is excellent for per- 
sons having throat diseases ; it is easily swallowed, and 
very nutritious. 

The same h la Franfaise, — ^The potage purie h la 
franfaise is the same as that a la reiney with the addition 
of quenelles of chicken. 

The same a la Princesse. — ^Add to that ii la reine, the 
white flesh of a roasted chicken, cut in dice, and put in the 
soup-dish. 

PurSe of Game. — ^Proceed as for potage purie h la 
reine, with the exception that you use prairie-hen, instead 
of chicken. 

SOUPS. 

Maiffre, or Vegetable Soup. — ^Proceed as for julienne 
m every particular, except that water is used instead of 
broth. Four ounces of butter mav be used instead of 

m 

two. 



86 POTAaJBS OB BOUPB. 

Beef and Mutton Soup. — Take three poands of beef 
and two pounds of breast of mutton; put both pieces in 
a crockery kettle with four quarts of cold water, salt, and 
pepper, set on a slow fire ; skim carefully, then add half a 
carrot, two turnips, two onions with one clove stuck in 
each, two stalks of celery, two leeks, one sprig of parsley, 
and one clove of garlic. Simmer four or five hours ; dish 
the meat with carrots, turnips, and leeks around, to be 
served after the soup if you choose ; strain the broth, 
skim the fiat ofi^, put back on the fire, give one boil ; have 
croutons in the soup-dish, pour over them, and serve. 

Mock Turtle. — ^Put two ounces of butter in a sauce- 
pan and set it on the fire, when melted, addatablespoonful 
of flour, stir, and when turning brown, add three pints of 
broth (either beef-broth or broth made by boiling a calf's 
head, according to taste) ; boil five minutes then add a 
liquor glass of brandy or rum, from one to three glasses 
of Madeira, Fort, or Sherry wine, about four ounces of 
calfVhead (the skin only) cut in dice, mushrooms or 
tmfSes, or both, also cut in dice; boil ^ve minutes. 
While it is boiling, cut two hard-boiled eggs and half a 
lemon in dice and put them in the soup-dish; turn the 
broth over, and serve. 

Made with beef broth it is certainly richer than when 
made with calfVhead broth, the latter is gelatinous but 
ess nourishing than the former. 

Mock Turtle with consommS, — ^Use consomm^ mstead 
of broth, and you have as rich a soup as can be made. 

Mock turtle is an English soup, very rich and very 
good. 

Au Chasseur {Hunter^s or Sportsman^s Soup). — A 
potage au chasseur is always made with game, such as 
rabbit, prairie-hen, grouse, venison, wild turkey, wild 



poTAass OB soul's. 87 

pigecm^ etc., but never witli aquatic birds. It miglit be 
made witb qnai], but tbat bird is really too delicate to 
make soup with. A whole bird or animal is never used, 
but the bones and trimmings only. After having cut off 
the fleshy parts, the bones are cracked and used to make 
the potage. 

Take the bones of two prairie-hens after having cut off 
the flesh on both sides of the breast-bone, also the legs ; 
cut the bones in pieces about half an inch long and set 
them on the tire with half an ounce of butter, stir for two 
or throe minutes, cover with broth, or game broth, and 
boil gently till well cooked, or about two hours. 

Put in another pan, and set it on the fire at the same 
time as the above,''half a head of cabbage, one carrot, one 
turnip, and one onion, all cut fine ; about half a pound of 
lean salt pork ; cover with cold water, and boil gently for 
about two hours also. 

In case the water or broth should boil away, add a 
little more. 

After having boiled both vegetables and bones about 
two hours, take off the salt pork from the pan in which 
the vegetables are, and turn what you have m the other 
pan over the vegetables, through a strainer ; add some 
broth if it is too thick ; boil ten minutes, and serve. 

Proceed as above with the bones and trimmings of 
other birds. 

Turtle or TWoptn.— Out the turtle in dice, throw 
it in boiling water for two or three minutes, and 
drain ; put it in a stewpan with onions and ham, also cut 
in dice ; season with thyme, parsley, bay-leaf, salt, pepper, 
and a wine-glass of Madeira wine or of good brandy ; 
wet with Eapiignole sauce or with cfmsommSy set on a good 
fire, boil about half an hour. Ten minutes before taking 



88 POTAGES OB SOUPS. 

fiom the fire, chop the eggs of the turtle, after having 
boiled them, and put them in a stewpan ; if the turtle has 
none, chop and use hard-boiled eggs instead. When 
done, throw away parsley, thyme, and bay-lea^ turn into 
bowls, add a little chopped chervil, and a quarter of a rind 
of lemon, also chopped; the latter is enough for six 
persons. Serve warm. 

It may be strained before putting it in bowls, accord- 
ing to taste. 

Turtle-steaks are prepared like beef-steaks. 

With JRice and MUk, — ^Wash half a pound of rice in 
cold water. Set it on the fire with about one pint of 
milk, boil gently till done, filling with more milk, so as to 
keep the rice always covered. When cooked, add a little 
butter, milk according to taste, sugar or salt, or both, and 
serve. It will not take more than two quarts of milk. 

The French name for the above ]sriz au Udt, 

With Oib*a.— Okra or gumbo is little known here; 
yet it is good in pickles, used like cucumbers. It is 
much used for soup in the Southern States and in the 
West Indies. 

When green and tender, cut it very fine, cook it in 
broth, add a few tomatoes or tomato-sauce, according to 
taste ; season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar. 
When the tomatoes are cooked, serve warm. 

If dry, make a potage like that of tapioca, to which 
you add a little tomato-sauce and pepper. 

With Onions, — ^Put two ounces of butter in a saucepan, 
and when melted add a tablespoonfnl of flour, stir, and 
when turning rather yellow add also four or five onions 
sliced, stir till fiied, when you add broth to taste (about 
one quart); boil gently about fifteen minutes; mash 
through a colander, put back on the fire ; give one boil, 



POTAaES OB BOUPS. 89 

salt and pepper to taste; torn into the soup-dish, in iPFhich 
you have some croutomj and serve. 

More or less onions may be used, according to taste. 

Ox-TaiL — Chop the ox-tail in pieces about one inch 
long, set them on the fire, with about one ounce of butter, 
stir till it turns rather brown, and turn the fat off. Then 
add broth to taste, boil slowly tlQ the pieces of tail are well 
done ; add salt^ P^ppe^ y ai^d when handy add also throe 
or four tomatoes whole ; boil gently about fifteen minutes 
longer, turn into the soup-dish, and serve meat and all. 

Some add wine and liquor, the same as to the mock- 
turtle soup, but this is according to taste. The soup is 
excellent served without wine or liquor. 

When no tomatoes are used, it is not necessary to 
boil fifteen minutes longer, serve as soon &s done. 

Simple, — ^IJse water instead of broth; season with 
carrot, turnip, parsley, leek, onions, cloves, salt, and pepper. 
Serve as the above. 

Ox-cheek. — ^An ox-cheek soup is made the same as an 
ox-tail soup. The broth is made with ox-cheek instead of 
with otner parts of the bee^ and the potage or soup made 
with the broth. A little wine — ^Madeira, Port, or Sherry — 
is sometimes added, as for mock-turtle. 

Sheep^S'taiL — Proceed as for ox-tail in every particu- 
lar. 

Skeep's-neck. — Made the same as ox-cheek soup. 

Sorrel. — ^Put two ounces of butter in a saucepan, set 
it on the fire, and as soon as melted, put a good handftil 
of sorrel in, stir for about one minute ; then add a pint 
and a half of water, salt ; boil two or three minutes ; add 
again a little butter, give one boil and turn into the soup- 
diah in which you have croutons. 

As soon as taken from the fire, two, three, or foui 



90 POTAG£S OB SOXTPS 

yolks of eggs, beaten with a tablespoonfal of water, may 
bo added. 

Broth may be used instead of water. 

Oyster. — Put one quart of oysters with their liquor in 
a saucepan, with one pint of cold water, and set it on a 
good fire. Take from the fire at the first boil, and skim 
off the scum. Take the oysters from the pan with a skim- 
mer and put them in the soup-dish. By keeping the soup- 
dish in a warm but not hot place, the oysters will not 
harden. Add to the juice in the saucepan a gill of white 
wine ; give one boU, and take Irom the fire. Mix two 
ounces of butter with two tablespoonfuls of flour in a bowl ; 
turn the juice and wine into the bowl also, and mix the 
whole well ; put the mixture back in the saucepan, and set 
it on the fire, adding about half a dozen mushrooms, two 
or three stalks of parsley, and pepper to taste. Boil two 
minutes, turn over the oysters through a strainer, and 
serve. 

The mushrooms may also be turned into the soup-dish. 

Cahbage, — ^Put in a kettle with two quarts and a half 
of water a pound of salted pork, same of breast of mutton; 
also, if handy, the remains of a roasted piece ; set on a slow 
fire ; skim before it boils, and then boil for about an hour 
and a half; strain, to remove the small bones, if any ; put 
back in the kettle broth and meat, also one middling-sized 
cabbage, which you must have previously thrown in boil- 
ing water and boiled ten minutes ; add then two carrots, 
one turnip, two leeks, half a head of celery, one onion 
with a clove stuck in it, a little salt and pepper, and about 
half a pound of sausage (not smoked) ; then boil gently 
about two hours, strain the broth, pour it on croutons in 
the soup-dish, and serve. 

The pork, mutton, and sausage, with the cabbage 



FOTAGES OB SOUPS. 91 

aroimd, may be served on a dish after the soup at a family 
dinner, or kept for break&st the next day. 

CwaUflower, — Clean and cnt in small pieces three 
middling-sized cauliflowers. Put in a stewpan two onnces 
of butter, and set it on a moderate fire ; when hot put the 
cauliflowers in; stir now and then till it turns brown, then 
add a sprig of thyme, same of parsley, a bay-leaf, one 
onion with a clore stuck in it, salt, and -^hite pepper ; sim*" 
mer gently till the whole is well cooked, throw away the 
onion, clove, thyme, and bay-leaf; mash well the cauli- 
flowers, strain and put back on the fire with the broth ; 
give one boil, pour on croutons^ and serve. 

Cheese, — ^Put four ounces of butter in a soup-kettle, 
with an onion chopped fine ; set on a brisk fire, stir now 
and then till it has a yellow color, then sprinkle on it half 
a tablespoonfd of flour, keep stirring till it turns brown ; 
then add two quarts of water, salt, and pepper ; boil about 
five minutes. Have prepared in the soup-dish the follow* 
ing : a thin layer of grated cheese, Grayere or pine-apple 
cheese ; on it a layer of thin slices of bread, then another 
of cheese, again another of bread, etc., three or four of 
each ; strain, and pour the liquor in the kettle on the 
whole ; keep in a warm place ^yq minutes, and serve. 

MiUe. — Put a quart of milk in a tin saucepan and set 
it on the fire; when it begins to rise, sweeten it to taste ; 
give one boil, pour on toasted bread, or on croutons^ or on 
two ounces of boiled rice, and serve. 

Tolks of eggs may be stirred in, just before turning the 
milk into the soup-dish, and when taken firom the Are. 

Maigre (called Soup aiusHerhes, Herb-Broth^ etc.). — 
Wash, drain, and chop fine a handful of sorrel, a dozen sprigs 
of chervil, and half a head of lettuce ; put an ounce of but- 
ter in & stewpan, set it on a good fire ; when melted, put 



92 FOTAGES OB SOUPB. 

the soirely chervil, and lettuce is, add salt and pepper, stir 
till the whole is cooked ; then cover with lukewarm water 9 
boil three minuter, beat well three yolks of eggs with a 
tablespoonful of water, take from the fire and put the eggs 
m while stirring; pour immediately on crmtom, and serve. 

With Leeks. — Clean six leeks; cut them in pieces 
about half an inch long, then fry them with a little butter 
till turning rather yellow ; add then about a pint and a 
half of water, boil gently till the leeks are perfectly 
cooked, salt to taste, and it is ready for use. 

This broth may be taken warm or cold. 

It is a demulcent, and at the same time the most re- 
freshing drink that can be taken. 

With Clams, — ^Wash and clean the clams well Then 
put them in a saucepan with half a pint of water (say 
one quart of clams), set on the fire, and at the first boil, 
take off and drain. Put the pan back on the fire with 
two ounces of butter in it ; when melted, fry a chopped 
onion in the butter, add then the liquor drained, a pint of 
water, salt, pepper, parsley chopped fine, and the clams ; 
boil two minutes, add also a little butter, and when melted 
and mixed, turn over some croutons in the soup-dish, and 
serve warm. 

With Muscles. — Proceed as for clams in every par- 
ticular. 

Allemande, or Cferman Soup. — Soak foar ounces of 
pearl-barley in tepid water for eight or ten hours, and 
drain. Put it in a saucepan with one quart of broth, a 
piece of leek, one of celery, and boil gently about one 
hour and a half. While it is boiling, mix well together 
in a bowl one tablespoonful of flour and half a giU of 
broth, which turn into the saucepan, also grated nutmeg 
and sugar to taste ; boil ten minutes longer, and serve. 



POTAGES Ofi SOUPS. 98 

JnotheTy caUed h la Maria Theresa. — ^Proceed as for 
the above, except that yon mix in a bowl six yolks of 
eggs with balf a gill of broth, and no flour; and finish as 
in the precedmg. 

Another way. — ^Instead of using pearl-barley, use flour 
that yon have dried in a bakepan till it turns yellow. 

Indian^ or Curry. — ^Put in a saucepan one ounce of 
butter and set it on the fire ; when melted, fry in it two 
large onions, one carrot, and half a turnip, all sliced ; also 
one leek, a stalk of celery, and four of parsley, all cut fine. 
When tilie whole is fried, cover with about one quart of 
broth, season with two cloves, a bay-leaf, half a teaspoon 
fill of cayenne pepper, same of pimento, two stalks of 
thyme ; boil gently about one hour and a quarter, and 
drain. Put the liquor back in the saucepan and add four 
ounces of boiled rice, a little saffiron to color, simmer about 
fifteen minutes longer, and serve. 

This soup is good and healthy for southern countries, 
but is too highly spiced for this climate. 

Poliehj or Barecz. — ^Peel and clean fifteen or twenty 
red beets, split them in two or four lengthwise, and put 
them in an earthen vessel with a pail of water and about 
a pound of rye bread ; cover the vessel as air-tight as pos- 
sible, and set it in a warm place (about 80 degrees Fahr.) 
for about eight days. After that time the liquor is rather 
sour, then drain. 

Put in a saucepan four pounds of lean beef, one pound 
of smoked pork, half a pound of ham, four onions, two 
leeks, and about four quarts of the liquor made as above. 
Simmer till the whole is done ; skim off the scum that 
may gather on the sur&ce, and then strain. 

Roast till half done, three chickens, or one chicken and 
one rabbity or one chicken and one duck ; put them on 



94 FOTAGES OB BOUPS. 

ihe fire in a saucepan with the liqnor strained from the 
bee^ pork, etc., as described above. Boil gently about 
half an hour, strain the liquor again. Then cut the beef, 
smoked pork, and ham, in small dice, put the whole in 
the soup-dish, with the strained liquor, and serve warm, 
as soup. 

The chicken, or chicken and rabbit, or chicken and 
duck, are generally served separately, with some of the 
beets used to make the liquor, and with the addition of 
mushrooms, parsley, celery, onions, and sausages, raw or 
cooked, according to taste ; and salt, pepper, and spices, 
according to taste also. 

The poorer classes make this soup with water instead 
of beet-juice, and very often with mutton instead of beef; 
but proceed as described above in every other particular. 

HussiaTiy or Uha. — ^The uha is made in Rusda with 
sterlets. It may be made here with the sturgeon of the 
lakes, or with salmon or trout 

Cut the fish in pieces about two inches long, and put 
them in salt water for one hour, and drain. Cut in small 
pieces two roots of parsley and two of celery, throw them 
into boiling water five minutes and drain them. Then fry 
them with a little butter till they turn yellow, when add 
a gill of broth, and boil gently till it becomes rather thick. 
Put the pieces of fish in also, add salt and pepper, to 
taste, cover the whole with fish-broth, boil gently tiU the 
Gsh is cooked, and serve warm. 

Some caviare may be added just before serving. 

Another^ or Tstchy. — ^Put four pounds of beef in a 
soup-kettle (the poorer classes always use mutton), with a 
chicken or a duck, half a pound of smoked pork, same of 
smoked sausages, four carrots, four cloves, twelve pepper- 
corns, salt) two leeks, two onions, four stalks of parsley, 



fOTAQES OB SOUPS. 95 

and one of celery ; coyer the whole with fish-broth, aud 
set on a good fire. Skim off the scum carefully, and boil 
gently till the whole is done. As soon as either the 
chicken or duck, etc, is done, take it from the kettle. 
When the whole is cooked, drain. 

Pat the liquor back in the kettle with a middling- 
sized head of cabbage cut hi four, or about the same quan- 
tity of sour-krout, slices of carrots and onions, pearl-barley, 
temoule, or gruel ; simmer about three hours, and it is 
done. 

It is served in two ways : first, all the meat and vege- 
tables are cut in small pieces and served with the broth 
as soup ; second, the broth is served with the vegetables cut 
up, and the meat is served after and separately, as a r$levS. 

Nothing is thrown away but the pepper-corns and 
cloves. 

Spanish, or Olla Podrida. — ^Put four ounces of lean 
and fat salt pork into a saucepan and set it on a good fire ; 
when partly fried, add half a pound of bee^ same of mut- 
ton, same of veal (occasionally a chicken or partridge is 
added also), and four ounces of ham. Just cover the 
whole with cold water, and skim carc^fully as soon as the 
scum comes on the surface. When skimmed, add a gill 
of dry peas, previously soaked in water for an hour, half 
a small head of cabbage, pimento to taste, one carrot, one 
turnip, two leeks, three or four stalks of celery, same of 
parsley, two of thyme, two cloves, two onions, two cloves 
of garlic, ten pepper-corns, and some mace ; fill up with 
water so that the whole is just covered, and simmer for 
abont five hours. 

In case the water should simmer away too much, add a 
little more. 

When done, dish the pork, bee^ mutton, veal, ham, and 



96 POTAOES OB B0UP8. 

chicken. Put the peas, cabbage, carrots, turDips, leeks, 
celery, and onions on another dish. 

Strain the liquor, pour it on croutons in the soup-dish, 
and serre the three dishes at the same time. 

The Spanish peasantry and the lower classes in cities, 
serve the whole in the same dish, and generally omit the 
beef and veal. The better class serve the soup first, and 
then the meat and vegetables afterward. 

Another, — Chop very fine two onions, one cucumber 
peeled and seeded, a little pimento, two cloves of garlic, 
four sprigs of parsley, same of chervil, and mix the whole 
in a bowl with the juice of four tomatoes, and to which 
add two or three tablespoonfiils of bread-crumbs. Then 
season with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, mustard, and water 
to taste, and serve. 

The Spanish call it a cool and refreshing soup. 



SAUCEa 



Thbrb is no good cooMng posdble without good sanceik 
Many excellent pieces of meat, etc., are spoiled by being 
served with a poor sauce. 

Let every one bear in mind that water is no substitute 
for broth ; that vinegar or water is no substitute for wine, 
etc 

There is no place where the old proverb can be better 
applied than in the kitchen, ^^ Waste not, spare nof 

The Frenchj ItalianSy Spaniards^ and Chrmans^ use 
broth and wine in their cooking, and do not spend as much 
as the Americans for their food ; they could not afford it ; 
but thev waste not, neither do they lose any thing good 
through carelessness or prejudice. 

Good sauces are not as difficult to make as is gener- 
ally b^ieved. 

This general belief comes from the &ct that many, 
after having partaken of a certain dish somewhere, and 
liking it much, ask of their own cook to prepare the 
same. 

The cook, most probably, has never heard of it, but 
nevertheless prepares a dish which is hardly eatable, and 
IS to the other what a crab-apple is to a raspberry. 

The most important thing in making a sauce is for the 
eook to put his or her whole attention and care to it. 

5 



98 8AU0ES. 

Most sauces mnst be stirred continually while on tlie 
fire, and especially white sauces, such as Bechamelj Bi' 
chamel with cream or cream sauce, and white sauce^ 

It is necessary to stir all sauces now and then, to pro- 
vent the forming of a kind of skin on the surface. 

The onions, shallots, garlics, and vinegar, used in sharp 
sauces, may be prepared as described for piquante sauce. 

Sauces can always be made to suit the taste. A thou 
sand can be made as well as a hundred, by merely adding 
or subtracting one or more of the compounds, or by pro- 
ceeding differently. An idea of what can be done in that 
line can be formed by reading our directions for Supbemb 
Saucx. 

HOW TO MAKE A SAUCE THICKEB WHEN IT IS TOO 
THIN, AND THINNER WHEN TOO THICK. 

Take two fresh eggs, break them gently, and separate 
the white part from the yolk ; be careful to have the yolk 
free from any white (there is in every yolk a little white 
spot, which you cannot detach without using a fork, knife, 
or spoon); mix well the two yolks with two or three 
tablespoonfals of the sauce that is too thin, and a piece 
of butter the size of a pigeon's egg ; then take the sauce 
from the fire, pour the mixture in it, little by little, stir- 
ring all the time ; when the whole is in, put back on the 
fire for three or four minutes, but do not allow it to boil ; 
take away and use. When too thick, add broth. 

Allemande, — Chop fine and fry in butter four or five 
mushrooms ; then add a little flour, and four or five table- 
spoonfuls of broth ; reduce it to a sauce ; put a piece of 
butter the size of an egg in it, also a sprig of white pars* 
ley chopped fine, one of thyine, a clove, a bay-leaf, a 
elove of garlic, a little nutmeg grated fine, the juice of a 



BAUOES. 99 

quarter of a lemon, and three well-beaten yolks of eggs , 
boil two or three minntesi and use. K found too thick, 
add a little broth. 

Anehovtf j?tt^fer.— Strain essence of anchovy through 
a fine sieve, and knead it with fresh butter, or salt butter 
that you have kneaded in cold water previously, and it i& 
ready for use. 

Anchovy Sauce, — Use butter without salt; if salty, 
work it in cold water. Set three ounces of butter in a 
saucepan on the fire, and melt it slowly ; then add about 
two teaspoonfuls of essence of anchovy ; stir a few sec- 
onds, and it is done. More anchovy may be used if 
liked. It is served in a boat 

Apple. — ^Peel, quarter, and core four or six apples, 
and set them on the fire in a small saucepan, with two 
tablespoonfuls of water; stir now and then till done ; when 
done, mash through a fine colander ; add a little sugar, 
and it is ready for use. 

If found too thin, keep on the fire for some time. K 
too thick, add a little water. 

Cranberry. — Put a quart of cranberries in a saucepan 
and set it on a rather slow fire ; stir occasionally till 
done ; mash gently through a fine colander, or through a 
strainer ; add a little sugar, and use. 

Currant — Proceed as for a cranberry-sauce in every 
particular, except that it must be mashed through a 
strainer or through a towel. 

Peach. — Stone about a quart of peaches, and proceed 
as for apple-sauce for the rest. 

Etupiberry. — ^Made the same as currant-sauce. 

The five sauces above are served with roasted game. 

BSehamel. — ^Mix cold, and well together, in a tin 
saucepan, two ounces of butter and a tablespoonfid of 



100 SATJOES. 

flour; then add a pint of milk, and set on the fire; 
Btir continnally, and when turning rather thick, take o£f ; 
beat a yolk of egg in a cup with a teaspoonful of water ; 
turn it into the sauce, and mix well again ; salt and white 
pepper to taste, and it is ready for use. 

Blonde, — ^Proceed exactly as for white sauce, using 
broth instead of water. 

Bread. — ^Take the soft part of half a ten-cent loaf of 
bread ; break it in pieces, which put in a saucepan with 
a quart of good fresh milk, six peppei>coms chopped fine, 
and a little salt; set on the fire and boil five or six 
minutes, stirring the while ; take off, mash through a 
strainer or a sieve, and it is ready for use. 

A bread-sauce is really a very poor sauce. Its insi- 
pidity is concealed by the great amount of pepp^ that it 
contains. 

Brovm Butter^ or Beurre Nbir. — ^This is butter set on 
the fire in a firying-pan and left till it turns perfectly brown, 
then a few sprigs of parsley are dropped in it, fried half a 
minute, and it is ready for use. 

It is sometimes used with vinegar, but in that case it 
is described in the receipts. 

Caper, — ^Mix well together, cold, in a small saucepan, 
two ounces of butter and a tablespoonful of flour ; then 
add a pint of broth, set on the fire, stir, and when thicken- 
ing, add capers to taste, whole or chopped ; give another 
boil, take from the fire, add salt, the yolk of an e^ 
beaten with a teaspoonful of water, mix and serve. 

Celery, — ^Proceed as for a caper-sauce in every particu- 
lar except that you add three or four stalks of celery 
chopped fine, and then boil ten or twelve minutes, and 
strain it before using. 

Colbert — Set half a pint of meat gravy on the fire, in 



8AUOE8* 101 

a small saucepan with half a dozen mnshrooms and one 
or two tniffles chopped fine (the latter, if handy), boil 
gently five minntes, add one onnce of bntter, stir, and 
when the butter is melted and mixed with the rest, it is 
ready for use. 

Coulis of Fishy or Fish Chravy^ is one and the same 
thing. 

Boil hard four eggs, and put the yolks in a mortar. 
Take a pike weighing about two pounds, clean, prepare, 
and broil it as directed ; split it open, take all the bones 
and skin o% put the flesh in the mortar with the yolks, 
and pound the whole, and knead it with a little butter. 
Place a little butter, of the size of a walnut, in a stewpan, 
and set it on a good fire ; when melted, fry in it till of a 
golden color, two carrots and two onions cut in slices; 
after that add also a piece of bay-leaf, two sprigs of pars- 
ley, one of thyme, a little isinglass, the eggs and fish, 
and cover with water ; simmer gently about one hour and 
a half, and strain. 

If found too thin after it is strained, set it back on the 
fire, add a little more isinglass, and simmer fifteen minutes 
longer. 

Coulis of FmZ.— -Place in a stewpan about one pound 
of veal, fillet or knuckle, with four ounces of ba<^n, not 
smoked, and cut fine ; also a carrot cut fine, a little pep- 
per, and grated nutmeg ; set on a slow fire, cover well ; 
half an hour after augment the fire, and as soon as you 
see the meat sticking to the pan, subdue it, leave it so ten 
minutes, then take from the fire, put the bacon, veal, and 
carrot on a dish ; put butter about the size of an egg in 
the pan; when melted, sprinkle in it a teaspoonfiil of 
flour, stir with a wooden spoon, then put the meat back 
into it Cover with warm broth and set on a slow fire for 



102 SAUCES. 

about two hears ; take ofl^ throw in it a few drops of cold 
water, skim off the &t, strain, and nse. 

C7r6a9ii.— A cream-eance is a Bechamel made with 
cream instead of milk. 

It is often called h la crhne, its French name. 

Cueumher. — ^Proceed as for caper-saace, using pickled 
cucumbers, chopped fine, instead of capers. 

JS§^g, — ^Proceed as for capeiHsauce in every particular, 
except that you use two hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine, 
instead of capers. 

Diplomat — ^Make a cream-sauce with one pint of 
cream. When made, put in it nearly half a pound of lob- 
ster butter, stir, and when the whole is well mixed, add 
also about a tablespoonful of essence of anchovy and mix 
again ; pepper to taste, and use. 

It is a rich sauce, used with boiled fish and baked or 
roasted meat 

JSspagnole. — ^This sauce is very seldom made in the 
kitchen of a family, except of a laige and wealthy fomily, 
being a rather expensive one. In the kitchen of a £uni- 
lj> gravy or even broth is used in its stead ; but, when 
preparing an extra dinner, it should be made, and a little 
of it used in all the brown sauces, either for meat, fish, or 
vegetables. 

Spread about half a pound of butter in the bottom of 
a stewpan, lay in it lean ham and veal, partridge, wild 
rabbit, pheasant, or fowl of any kind, about four ounces 
of eacli, a small carrot cut in dice, one onion with a clove 
stuck in it, half a turnip, and a sprig of thyme ; cover 
the pan and set it on the fire ; let it simmer till reduced to 
a jelly, then mix in it two tablespoonfuls of flour, a wine- 
glass of 'White wine, cover with broth, add salt, pepper, a 
elove of garlic, a sprig of parsley, one clove, a bay4ea^ 



8ATJ0BS. 103 

god two masbrooms cut in pieces ; simmer from three to 
four hoars, skim off the scam as soon as it comes on the 
surface ; when done, taike it from the fire, throw a few 
drops of cold water in, and skim off the fat, then strain 
and use. 

It will keep for some time if kept air-tight in a pot or 
bottle, and in a cool, dry place. 

Essence of Spinage^ or Spinach, — Soak in water, drain, 
dry, and pound well two or three handfols of spinach, put 
them in a coarse towel and press the juice out, put it in a 
pan on a moderate fire, and when nearly boiling, take it 
off, strain, and add to it a little fine-crushed sugar, stir a 
little, and bottle when cold ; it may be kept for months ; 
use it where directed. 

Sauce for every kind of Fvih^ boiled^ baked, or roasted, 
^Boil hard two eggs, take the yolks and pound them 
well, and place them in a bowl. Have boiling water on 
the fire, and put in it cives, bumet, chervil, tarragon, and 
parsley, four or five sprigs of each ; boil five minutes, take 
off, drain and pound them well, then strain them on the 
eggs, add two tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar, two of 
French mustard, salt, pepper, and four tablespoonfuls of 
sweet-oil, which you pour in, little by little, at the same 
time mixing the whole well with a boxwood spoon, and it 
is ready for use. 

Fines Herbes, — Chop very fine a small handful of 
parsley, -haUote, «d chives; and proceed as for making a 
caper-sauce, except that you use the chopped spices in- 
stead of capers. 

Genoise, — ^Put two ounces of butter in a small sauce- 
pan, set it on the fire, and when melted, mix in it a table- 
spoonful of flour ; stir for one minute, add one-fourth of 
a carrot, sliced, stir now and then, and when nearly fried^ 



104 8ATJ0E8. 

add also a pint of broth, half a pint of claret winOy a 
small onion, and a clove of garlic, chopped ; two cloves, a 
bay-leaf, two stalks of parsley, one of thyme, salt, and 
pepper; boil gently about one hour and forty minutes, and 
strain. K it boils away, add a little broth. Put it back 
on the fire with about half an ounce of butter, boil gently 
for about ten minutes, and it is ready for use. 

This sauce is excellent with any kind of boiled fish, 
but especially with trout, pike, and pickerel. 

A trout served with a ginoise sauce is considered a 
recherchi dish. 

Hollandaise. — Set one ounce of butter on the fire in a 
saucepan, and when melted, add half a tablespoonfiil of 
flour, stir, and when turning rather yellow, add half a pint 
of broth, stir for one minute ; add also four sprigs of pars- 
ley and four mushrooms chopped fine (one truffle sliced, 
if handy, would be excellent), a liquor-glass of Madeira, 
Port, or Sherry wine ; boil gently ten minutes, stirring 
the while, and serve. 

Indian, — ^This sauce may be used with fish, in summer 
and in southern places. 

Have a stewpan on a moderate fire, with two ounces 
of butter in it; when melted, add a teaspoonful of 
pimento, salt, a pinch of safi&on, and one of grated nut- 
meg, also one and a half tablespoonfuls of flour — ^the latter 
you sprinkle in, little by little, stirring the while ; cover 
with broth, boil twelve minutes and strain ; afterward add 
two ounces of butter, stir a little, and use. 

Italian, — Tie together two sprigs of parsley, one of 
thyme, and a bay-leaf; put them in a stewpan with two 
or three mushrooms cut fine, one shallot, a small onion 
with a clove stuck in it, a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut, and half a pint of white wine ; set on a gentle fire, 



SAUCES. 105 

And reduce it half; then add about one tablespoonfol of 
olive-oil and half a pint of broth, simmer forty minutes, 
strain, and use. 

Lobster. — Chop very fine or pound some of the flesh 
of a boiled lobster. Make a white or blonde sauce, and 
instead of taMng it from the fire when done, turn the 
chopped flesh into it with a little piece of butter ; stir, 
give one boil, and it is ready for use. 

CraW'jUhy pratoUj shrimpy and crab sauces are made 
the same as lobster sauce, 

Madeira, — ^Mix cold in a saucepan two ounces of but- 
ter with a tablespoonful of flour, set on the fire and stir till 
it turns rather brown ; when add nearly a pint of gravy, 
stir till it is becoming thick; then add half a pint of Ma- 
deira wine, little by little, stirring the while, give one boil 
only, salt to taste, and then strain and use. 

Champagne sauce is made in the same way, except that 
it must be poured in faster and used immediately. 

All wine sauces may be made in the same way. We 
mean wine sauces for meat or fish. 

Maitre d' Hotel. — ^This sauce is sometimes called butt^ 
maitre cPIiotel, Mix and knead well together in a bowl, 
two ounces of butter, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley 
and the juice of a half lemon ; salt to taste and use. 

Pepper, grated nutmeg, and chopped chives, may be 
added if liked. Using vinegar instead of lemon-juice 
makes an inferior sauce. 

Mayomwrne, — ^In warm weather it is necessary to put 
the bowl on ice while making it. Put one or two yolks 
of fresh eggs in a bowl with a small pinch of salt ; com- 
mence stirring with a box-wood spoon, or, what is still bet- 
ter, a stone or marble pestle. Stir without interruption, 
always in the same way and describing a circle. It is 
6* 



106 BATTOBS. 

more easily done if the bowl is held steady. After having 
stirred about half a minnte, commence pouring the oil in, 
drop by drop, and as soon as you see that it is thickening 
pretty well, add also a few drops of vinegar and same of 
lemon-juice ; then continue with the oil in the same way. 
Every time that it becomes too thick, add a little vinegar, 
but continue stirring. You put as much oil as you please ; 
two bottles of oil might be used and it would still be 
thick. Spread it on chicken salad, etc. 

Tartar. — Chop some capers and shallots very fine, mix 
them well with a mayonnaise when made, and you have a 
Tartar sauce. 

Mushroom. — ^Proceed exactly as for caper-sauce, using 
chopped mushrooms instead of capers. 

Piguan^e.— Take a small saucepan and set it on the 
fire with two ounces of butter in it, and when melted add 
a small onion chopped ; stir, and when nearly fried add a 
tablespoonful of flour, stir, and when turning rather brown, 
add half a pint of broth, salt, pepper, a pickled cucumber 
chopped, four stalks of parsley, also chopped, and mus- 
tard ; boil gently about ten minutes, add a teaspoonful of 
vinegar ; give one boil, and serve. 

Another toay. — Set the chopped onion on the fire with 
one gill of vinegar, and boil gently till the vinegar is en- 
tirely absorbed, or boiled away. Make the same sauce as 
above in another pan; omitting the onion and vinegar, and 
when done mix the two together, and it is ready for use. 

Another. — Add three shallots, chopped fine, to the 
chopped onion, and proceed as above for the rest. 

Parisienne, — Make a bunch of seasonings with six 
sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a bay-leaf, and two cloves ; 
put it in a saucepan with half a pint of chopped truffles, 
and about a pint of white wine ; set on the fire and boil 



SAUCES. 107 

gently till about half reduced, strain, put back on the 
fire, turn into it, little by little, stirring the while, nearly a 
pint of gravy or consommi ; continue stirring now and 
then tiU it begins to turn rather thick, add pepper to 
taste, strain, and use with fish and game. 

-P<wvr«M?«.— Put a piece of butter the size of an egg in 
a stewpan, and set it on the fire ; when melted, sprinkle 
in it, little by little, about a tablespoonful of flour, stirring 
the while ; when of a proper thickness, and of a brownish 
color, take from the fire, add a tablespoonful of vinegar, 
a wineglass of claret wine, a glass of broth, a shallot cut 
in two, a middling-sized onion, also cut in two, with a 
clove stuck in each piece, a sprig of thyme, one of pars- 
ley, a bay-leaf, a clove of garlic, a little salt, and two pep- 
per-corns ; boil about twenty minutes, strain and use. 

The vinegar, shallot, and onion may be boiled separate- 
ly as for a piquante sauce. 

jPoZonae>e.~>Put four ounces of butter in a saucepan 
on the fire, and when melted add two or three tablespoon- 
fids of the soft part of bread, bruised in a coarse towel ; 
stir for about one minute, salt to taste, and use. 

Like the ParUienne, it is used with game. 

Faulette, — Set a stewpan on the fire with a piece of 
butter the size of an e^ in it ; when melted, sprinkle in 
it a tablespoonful of flour, stirring the while ; pour gently 
in it also, and little by little, a glass of warm water, and a 
wine-glass of white wine, or broth inistead of both, salt, 
pepper, a sprig of parsley, one of thyme, a bay-leaf, a 
chopped shallot, a little nutmeg, four small white onions, 
and two or three mushrooms (the latter cut fine and fried 
in batter before using them) ; simmer till the whole is well 
cooked, strain and use. 

In ease it should be found too light, add when done, 



108 SAUCES. 

and before taMng from the fire, two or three yolks of 
eggs, and the juice of a lemon. 

Princesse. — Make a cream-sauce with one pint of 
cream and set it on a moderate fire ; immediately turn 
into it, stirring the while, about half a pint of reduced, 
good meat gravy ; when thoroughly mixed, add two or 
three ounces of butter, stir for a couple of minutes longer, 
strain and use immediately. 

It is a yery rich sauce, used with boiled fish and 
roasted or baked meat. 

ProvenpdU, — Chop fine two or three mushrooms, and 
two shallots ; put the whole in a stewpan with a clove of 
garlic, and two tablespoonfuls of olive-oil ; set on a mod- 
erate fire, and leave till half fried ; then sprinkle in it half 
a teaspoonful of fiour, stirring the while ; add also half a 
pint of white wine, and as much broth, and two small 
onions, two sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, half a bay- 
lea^ salt, and pepper ; simmer about half an hour, take 
from the fire, and a few minutes after skim off the fat; 
take out the garlic, onions, parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, 
and it is then ready for immediate use. 

Ravigote, — Chop fine, and in equal proportion, two 
tablespoonfuls of chervil, tarragon, and pepper-grass, also, 
in equal proportion, one teaspoonftil of bumet and table 
celery ; place the whole in a stewpan with salt and pep- 
per, cover with broth, set on the fire, and boil twenty 
minutes ; after which take from the fire, and strain. Mix 
two ounces of butter with fiour enough to make a paste, 
put it with the sauce on the fire, add a tablespoonful of 
cider vinegar ; simmer till of a proper thickness, and use. 

Robert, — ^Put about four ounces of butter in a stew- 
pan, set it on a moderate fire ; when melted, sprinkle in it 
about a tablespoonful of flour, stirring the while ; when 



SAUOEB. 109 

of a brownish color, add three small onions chopped fine, 
salt, and pepper ; stir, and leave on the fire till the whole 
is turning brown, then add a glass of broth, boil abou^ 
thirty minutes, and strain ; mix well in a cup one tea- 
spoonful of vinegar, one of sugar, and one <^ mustard, 
which mix again with the sauce, and it is ready to be 
used. 

JRhnolade. — Chop very fine a small handful of chervil, 
tarragon, and bumet, in equal proportion, and put them 
in a saucer or boat ; add salt, pepper, nutmeg grated, and 
mustard, to taste ; also one or two hard-boiled eggs cut in 
dice ; mix the whole gently and well ; then add the vine- 
gar, and lastly the oil. The two latter ones are put in 
little by little, stirring gently the while. Serve as it is. 

Another. — Proceed as for the above, except that you 
chop fine with the chervil, etc., some parsley, shallot, and 
garlic ; the five spices in equal proportion. 

When finished, add also a pinch of sugar. 

Boux, — Set a small saucepan on a moderate fire, with 
two ounces of butter in it ; sprinkle into it, when melted, a 
tablespoonful of fiour ; stir, and when turning brown, use. 

Shallot. — Chop the shallots, and proceed as for caper- 
sauce, using them mstead of capers. 

Souhise, — Put about half a pint of good meat gravy 
in a saucepan ; set it on the fire, and when boiling add 
half a gUl of Madeira wine ; when well mixed, add also 
two or three tablespoonfuls of pur6e of white onions, 
salt, and pepper ; boil five minutes, stirring now and then, 
and it is made. 

A soubige is an excellent sauce for baked or boiled fish, 
also for roasted meat. 

Supreme. — ^This sauce is made in several ways. We 
will give here the three principal ones : 



110 8AU0BS. 

1. Make an AUemande sauce ; and when done, add to it 
two ounces of butter and half a gill of conaommS; stir 
and mix, and place on a brisk fire to start it boiling at 
once; take it from the fire as soon as it becomes thick; 
then add a few drops of lemon-juice, and use. 

2. Make a r<mx; add to it about half a pint of chicken 
gravy ; stir or boil five or six minutes ; then add two 
ounces of butter, the juice of a lemon, a pinch of parsley 
chopped fine ; give one boU, and nse. 

3. This is made like No. 2, except that you use an 
AUemande sauce instead of a roux^ and besides the pint 
of chicken gravy, etc., you add also half a gill of white 
wine. 

It is used especially with roasted chicken and game. 

Tomato, — ^If you use fresh tomatoes, blanch them first ; 
if preserved, use them as they are in the can. Put one 
pint of tomatoes in a saucepan with a small onion and a 
clove of garlic sliced ; also two stalks of parsley, one of 
thyme, a bay-lea^ one clove, six pepper-corns, and salt; 
boil gently till reduced about one-third, when mash gently 
through a strainer or sieve ; all the tomato-seed and sea- 
sonings must remain in the strainer ; put back on the fire, 
with a little piece of butter ; give one boil, and it is done. 

Truffle. — ^This sauce is made like a caper-sauce, using 
chopped or sliced trufiies instead of capers. 

VehutL — ^Tbis and gravy is nearly the same thing. 
It is gravy made as directed for gravy, with the addition 
of a dozen mushrooms chopped fine; and is used for 
sauces, like gravy, to make sauces richer than with broth. 

Vinaigrette, — Put salt and pepper in a saucer (and 
mustard, if it is to be used with butcher's meat ; but with 
fish, chicken, or birds, it is really too strong ; it neutralizes 
the delicate flavor of the object), and pour vinegar over. 



aAuoxs. Ill 

little by little, beating with a fork at the same time ; then 
poor the oil, also little by little, and while beating; a 
little chopped parsley is also added ; and serve with cold 
moat, fish, or vegetables. 

It is quickly made, is good, and makes an excellent 
dish for breakfast, served as we said aboye. 

White. — ^Pnt two ounces of batter in a small sauce- 
pan and set it on the fire, stir a little, and as soon as 
melted, remove on a rather slow fire ; add a tablespoonfdl 
of flonr, stir continually till thoroughly mixed (two or 
three minutes) ; then add again about a pint of boiling 
water, pouring gently, and stirring the while, take off 
when it begins to turn thick ; add a yolk of e^ beaten 
with a teaspoonfbl of cold water, mix it well with the 
rest, and it is ready for use ; after having mixed, also salt 
and white pepper to taste. 

Oyster. — ^Add to a white sauce some oysters blanched ; 
then stir and mix with the whole the juice of half a lemon. 

Muscle. — ^Boil the muscles about one minute and make 
as oyster-sauce. 

SAUCES FOR PUDDINGa 

MUh, — Put in a block-tin saucepan four tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, one of flour, four yolks of eggs, one pint of 
milk ; essence to flavor, and mix the whole well ; set on a 
good but not sharp fire, stir continually till it begins to 
become rather thick ; take off, turn over the pudding, and 
serve. 

Madeira. — Set a saucepan on the fire with one ounce 
of butter in it ; as soon as melted, add half a tablespoonful 
of flour, stir till it turns rather yellow, and add also one 
pint of water, four ounces of sugar, and a few drops of 
burnt sugar ; boil gently, about twenty-five minutes ; add 



112 SAU0B8. 

nearly a gill of Madeira wine, boil again ten minutes, and 
serve in a boat 

JRum^ — ^Proceed as for Madeira-sance, except yon use 
half a gill of rum instead of Madeira. 

Brandy, — ^Proceed as for mm-eauce, using the samo 
proportion of brandy. 



FAECES AND GARNITUEE8, 

CALLED ALSO GARNISH AND GARNISHING, USED TO 
DECORATE OR ORNAMENT DISHES. 



With Bread. — ^Put in a tureen aboat a pound of tha 
soft part of bread, and cover with broth ; when it has ab- 
sorbed the broth, place it in a stewpan, set it on a slow 
fire, and leave till it becomes a thick paste ; stir now and 
then, then mix well with it three yolks of eggs, and it is 
ready for use. 

With Cabbage. — ^Throw into boiliog water a little salt 
and a middling-sized cabbage ; boil it half an hour, take 
it from the kettle with a skimmer, throw it in cold water, 
and drain it, pressing it a little in the drainer to force the 
water out ; cut off the stump, and chop the cabbage fine. 
Have in a stewpan on the fire, three or four ounces of fresh 
butter ; put the cabbage in when the butter is half melted, 
sprinkling on while stirriDg a teaspoonful of flour ; pour 
on it, little by little, some broth, stirring the while, and 
when it has a fine brownish color, wet with broth enough 
to boil it; season with salt, a little grated nutmeg, and 
four pepper-corns ; boil gently till the sauce is thick enough, 
take away the pepper-corns, and use. 

With C<yrri^8 of Chicken. — Soak the combs over night 
m cold water, and then clean them well by wiping roughly 



114 



FABOES AND QABNTTUBES. 



witli a coarse towel, wetted and salted ; wash and drain 
them ; put a dozen of them in a saucepan with two sweet- 
breads blanched, cover the whole with broth, and boil till 
done ; then add salt, pepper, a few drops of lemon-juice, 
and it is ready for use. 

With Cauliflowers. — ^Proceed as for cabbage in every 
particular, except that it does not require as long doing. 

With Croutons, — Cut pieces of soft part of stale bread 
in different shapes, and fry them on both sides in butter 
or hL 

For potage, they are cut in dice, but for decoratmg 
dishes, they are cut either round, square, oblong, or of a 
heart, star-like, half moon, butterfly, or flower shape, and 
about one-quarter of an inch thick. Take them off with 
a skimmer, and turn into a colander to drain. 



d 



a 




*' 




The cut d is used for potage, and a, b, c, etc., are used 
to decorate. 

Duxdle, — ^Make a fines-herhes sauce, and when ready 
to be used, add half a giU of gravy, and give one boil ; add 
also two or three yolks of eggs, simmer one minute, and 
use warm. 

Mushrooms, whole or in slices, may be added at the 
lame time the yolks of eggs are added. 



FABOES JLSD GASNITUBES. 115 

With JSgga. — ^Mash and mix well together six hard* 
Doiled yolks of ^gs with three yolks not cooked, salt 
and pepper. Pat the mixture in parts on the paste-hoard, 
which must he previously dusted with flour ; roll each 
part and give it the shape of a small ^gg (a pigeon's ^g 
or a little larger). When the whole is thus prepared, drop 
in hoiling water, hoil till cooked, and use to decorate meat 
or fish* 

Mnancikre. — A garniture financiere is the same as a 
garniture with comhs of chicken, to which are added some 
mushrooms and truffles, hoth cut in slices. 

It is generally served with a roast chicken. 

With Idvers.-'-^eeae livers are the hest, heing the fat- 
test. Drop two geese livers in hoiling water and a little 
salt, hon three minutes and drain. Put in a saucepan one 
gill of hrothj same of white wine, Sauteme or Oatawha, a 
tahlespoonfiil of gravy, six peppeiycoms, two or three stalks 
of parsley, salt, and the livers ; set on the fire and hoil 
gently for ahout twenty-five minutes. Take off the livers, 
hoil a few minutes longer to thicken the sauce, turn it over 
the livers through a strainer, and it is ready. 

The same may he done with the livers of poultry or any 
other kind of hirds ; the seasonings are the same, and the 
proportion is according to the size or to the numher of 
livers. 

Besides being used as garnishing, it may he served as 
a hreakfisist dish. 

Macidoine.^^'Blajich. a dozen of Brussels cabbages. 
Blanch also half a dozen asparagus cut in pieces about an 
inch long. Put four ounces of butter in a saucepan on 
the fire, and when melted put it into a gill of carrots, same 
of turnips, both cut with a vegetable spoon, also a dozen 
impll onions; stir now and then till the whole is about 



116 FABCES AJS[J> GABNTTUBES. 

half done, when add a little over a pint of broth and the 
Brussels cabbages; boil abont ten minutes. Then add 
again the blanched asparagos, half a dozen mnshrooms, 
broth just enough to coyer the whole, simmer till every 
thing is done, salt and pepper to taste, a pinch of sugar 
and it is ready for use. 

Water may be used instead of broth, but is inferior. 

A maeSdaine may be served with any meat — ^roasted, 
baked, or broiled. 

With ilftt^ArooTW.— Chop fine half a pint of fresh 
mushroons and two tablespoonfuls of parsley. Set a 
saucepan on the fire with two ounces of fat grated salt 
pork in it, as much butter, and as soon as the butter is 
melted put the mushrooms and parsley in ; season with 
salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and a quarter of a pint 
of white wine; let boil gently till reduced to a jelly, and 
use. 

When done, three or four yolks of eggs may be mixed 
with it. 

With Onions. — ^Put a dozen onions in a crockery 
saucepan and half cover them with broth. Cover the pan 
as well as possible, simmer till cooked, when add a tea- 
spoonful of sugar, salt, simmer again for about ten min- 
utes, basting now and then, and serve warm with bee^ 
mutton, or venison. 

Quenelles.^^ho^ fine one pound of fresh veal, half 
lean and half fat — ^the fat nearest the kidney is the best ; 
then pound it well and mash it through a sieve. Mix two 
yolks of eggs with it, and season tp taste with salt, pep- 
per, nutmeg grated, and powdered cinnamon. Spread 
flour on the paste-board, put a teaspoonful of meat here 
and there ; roll gently each part into small balls, using as 
little flour as possible. They may also be rolled of an 



FASOSS AND GABNirUBES. 117 

olive sliapa Throw the balls into boiling brotb or boiling 
water at the first boiling, boil five minutes and drain. As 
soon as cold tbey are ready for nse. 

BouUtteBj Jricadelles, godiveau, and quenelles are one 
and the same thing. 

Whole eggs may be used instead of the yolks only^ 
add also a few bread-crumbs. To the seasonings above 
some parsley chopped fine may be added. 

Make quenelles with any kind of meat — ^butcher^s meat, 
pottltry, and game, also with fish well boned. 

To the lean meat add the same weight of £Eit veal, as 
above directed, or, in its stead, beef suet. 

Truffles or mushrooms, or both, may be added to the 
mixture, eitjier of meat or of fish. 

Quenelles are used for garnitures, etc. They may be 
fried instead of boiled. 

^aZ^'con.— Out in dice an equal quantity of each, and 
to weigh altogether about one pound and a half, calf 
sweetbreads, livers, or flesh of fowls, and ham-*three 
kinds in all; also two mushrooms and two truffles; all 
must be nearly cooked in water beforehand. Put them in 
a stewpan, season with salt, pepper, a bay-loaf, a clove of 
garlic, an onion, a sprig of parsley, and one of thyme ; 
cover with half a pint of broth, and as much of white 
wine ; set on a slow fire ; it mast not boil, but simmer 
gently ; stir now and then till the whole is well cooked ; 
take out the bay-leaf, onion, garlic, parsley, and thyme. In 
case the sauce should not be thick enough, add a little 
fecula, stir, and leave awhile longer on the fire, and it is 
ready for use. 

With Truffles, — Slice the truffles and put them in a 
saucepan with a pinch of sugar, broth and claret wine 
enough to cover them, half of each, simmer for about 



118 FABCES AND GABNITUBES. 

twenty minutes, add a little potato starch, boil gently till 
it begins to thicken, and use. 

Lobster Butter. — ^Put the flesh of the two large claws 
of a boiled lobster with a little of the inside, about a 
tablespoonful, in a mortar and pound well Add about 
the same volume of good butter and pound again till the 
whole is well mixed It is then mashed through a fine 
sieve, and is ready for use. When the lobster has coral, it is 
pounded with the rest, and gives a fine color to the butter. 

If the lobster has no coral, a piece of the reddest part 
of the shell is pounded with the rest, when the butter is 
to be colored. 

This butter may be used instead of ordinary butter 
for fish-sauces, or for making a maitre cThdtel for boiled 
fish, or for garnishing the same. 

To clarify it, just put the butter into a bowl when 
made, put the bowl in a boiling bain-marie for about half 
an hour, take off and immediately turn it through a cloth 
into a bowl half full of cold water. The cloth must be 
rather twisted, to cause the butter to run through. When 
it is in the bowl, stir it till rather hard ; work it in a baD, 
and wipe it dry. 

Thus clarified it is finer than when used merely mixed. 

The same butter may be made, and in the same way, 
with craW'fishy pratonSj and shrimps. 

JBorse-radish Butter. — Grate some horse-radish and 
mix it well with about the same volume of butter, masl] 
through a sieve, and it is ready for use. 

Tarragon and garlic butter are made as the above. 

If the butter be. found too strong, use more butter and 
less of garlic, etc. 

Bavigote Butter (called also Beurre de Mbntpellier). — 
Blancb the following spices: parsley, tarragon, chives, 



FABCES AND GASNITUBES. 119 

chervil — ^parsley and chervil in equal proportion and abont 
half as much of the two others, about two handfuls alto 
gethei^-drain dry and put them in a mortar with two 
anchovies boned, one shallot chopped and bruised m a 
coarse towel, half a dozen capers, a rather smaU piece of 
pickled cucumber, four ounces of butter, two hard-boiled 
yolks of eggs, and the juice of half a lemon. Pound the 
whole well together, then add a tablespoonful of essence 
of spinach, mix well, mash through a sieve, and use. 

This butter is excellent to decorate and to eat with cold 
fish. It is sometimes used with cold birds. 

Jffaaelrnut J?tf^^.— Pound some hazel-nuts or filberts 
and then mix throughly with good butter, mash through 
a sieve, and use as ordinary butter. The proportion ac- 
cording to taste. It is easily prepared, and is delicious. 

Do the same with pecMiutSy or any other nut 

Melted ^w^fer.— Put butter in a crockery vessel anc 
place it above a pan of water or some other liquid, heatea 
but not boiling, so that the butter will melt slowly and 
gradually. Sometimes the butter may be wanted soft only, 
or what is called melted soft, or thoroughly melted. It is 
easy to obtain those different states above with heated 
liquor, and the butter, though melted, is more firm than 
when melted on the fire. 

Scented Butter, — ^Whenever a certain flavor is desired 
with butter, put a piece of firm and good butter in a bowl 
with a few drops of essence, knead well, and then mash 
through a sieve, 

PURJ^ES. 

Purees are made with vegetables, but when the flesh 
of poultry or other birds is mashed through a sieve after 
being cooked, it is sometimes called a puree also. 



120 FABOES Am> GASNinJBES. 

The bones of a ham, after the flesh is disposed o^ is 
the most excellent thing you can pat with the vegetables 
to boil them in order to make purSes. 

One-third of the bones of a middling-si^ed ham is 
enough for about a quart of vegetables. 

When you have no ham bones, use four ounces of 
good salt pork, as lean as possible ; but never use smoked 
pork, it gives a disagreeable taste to the purSe, 

Of Dry Beans^ white or colored^ Kidney j Zima^ or any 
other kind. — ^Dry beans must be soaked in cold water, or 
even in lukewarm water, when in a hurry. According to 
the nature of the beans, they must be soaked for from six 
to twenty-four hours. 

Soak a quart of beans as directed above ; drain and put 
them in a saucepan with one-third of the bones of a ham, 
or about four ounces of salt pork ; cover with cold water, 
season with a bay-lea^ a sprig of thyme, two of parsley, 
two middling-sized onions, with two cloves stuck in them, 
and a carrot cut in pieces ; when the whole is well cooked, 
throw away thyme, bay-leaf, onions, and cloves; mash well 
through a colander all the rest except the bacon. 

While mashing them through the colander, wet them 
with some of the water in which they have boUed, else it 
would be difficult and long. 

When mashed, put them in a saucepan with a little 
broth or water, salt, and two ounces of butter; stir now 
and then till the butter is melted and thoroughly mixed 
with the rest, and it is ready for use. The quantity of 
broth or water is according to how thick or thin they 
are wanted. The salt pork is good to eat. 

Of Lentils. — It is made in the same way as that of 
beans, except that they do not require to be soaked more 
than five or six hours in cold water. 



FABCSS AND GASNITUSES. 121 

Of Feaa {dry ar split). — ^Proceed as for lentik in 
every particular. 

Of Chestnuts. — ^Remove the skin of a quart of chest- 
nuts and drop them in boiling water, with a little salt As 
soon as the under skin comes off easily, take them from 
the fire, drain, drop them in cold water, and then remove 
the under or white skin; put them in a saucepan with 
about one quart of broth, set on the fire and boil gently 
till well done, and mash through a colander. 

Then put the chestnuts, and what is left of the broth, 
in a saucepan, set on the fire, stir, add a pinch of sugar 
and an ounce of butter ; give one boil, and it is made. 

Of Green Peas. — ^Wash a quart of green peas in cold 
water, and drain ; put two quarts of cold water on the fire 
in a saucepan, with a little salt, and at the first boil throw 
the peas in, season with three or four sprigs of parsley, 
one of thyme, two onions, and two cloves, a carrot in 
slices, salt, and pepper ; boil till tender. It may take only 
two minutes, or it may require half an hour, according to 
how tender the peas are. 

Mash through a colander, and finish like purie of 
beans, using either broth or water. With broth it is 
richer and better. 

Of Lima Beans, — ^Proceed for green Ldmas as for 
green peas. 

Of Sweet Com. — ^It is made like that of green peas. 

Of Asparagus, — Cut the eatable part of the asparagus 
in pieces, and proceed as {or puree of green peaa. 

Of Potatoes, — Steam a quart of potatoes, and then 
mash them well ; put them in a saucepan with half a pint 
of milk, two ounces of butter, and salt ; set on the fire, 
itir now and then, take off and use. It takes about fifteen 
minutes after being set back on the fire. 

6 



122 FASCES Am> GABNirUSES. 

Another way, — ^Proceed as above, using brotli or water 
instead of milk. 

OfJeruialem Artichokes, — ^Prepared as potatoes. 

Of Carrots. — Clean well, and cut in slices, a dozen 
middling-sized carrots ; put tbem in a stewpan with four 
ounces of butter, and set on tbe fire ; wben about baif 
fried, cover with brotb or water ; season witb balf a bay- 
lea^ a small sprig of thyme, one of parsley, a small onion, 
and a clove stuck in it ; when the whole is well cooked, 
throw away onion, clove, bay-lea^ and th3nne, mash the 
rest through a colander ; then put back on the fire, with a 
htUe butter; simmer for about two hours, stirring occa- 
sionally, and it is made. 

In case it should turn too thick, add broth or water. 

The longer they are simmered, the better the taste. 

Of TumipB. — ^Proceed as with carrots in every par- 
ticular. 

Of Celery, — It is always made with turnip-rooted 
celery. Glean the celery well, wash and cut it in pieces, 
and prepare dApurie of carrots, adding a teaspoonful of 
sugar. 

Of Cauliflowers, — Separate the branches, and throw 
them in boihng water and salt; boil two minutes and 
drain. Put them on the fire with broth or water, enough 
just to cover them, two or three stalks of parsley, and salt 
to season. 

Boil gently till tender; remove the parsley; mash 
through a colander ; put back on the fire with a litde but- 
ter and white pepper, simmer about ten minutes, stirring 
DOW and then the while, and it is ready for use. 

Instead of butter, some cream may be added. 

Of JPumpkin. — ^Made exactly the same as that of cauli- 
flowers, after the pumpkin is peeled and cut in pieces. 



FASOES Ain) GABNTTUBES. 123 

Of Squath.'^&me as pumpkin. 

Of Spinach. — Clean the spinacb, and cut off the stem ; 
the leaf only is good ; wash and drain it ; put cold water 
and a little salt on the fire, and throw the spinach in at 
the first boil. When .tender, drain and drop immediately 
in cold water; drain again, and then chop it very fine* 
After being chopped, it may be mashed through a sieve^ 
to have it finer ; put it back on the fire without any water 
at all, and when it gets rather dry, add a little fiour ; stir 
and mix; add again a little gravy or good broth; stir, 
then salt to taste, and it is ready for use. 

If the spinach is young and tender, it takes only two 
or three minutes boiling before chopping it. 

From the time it is put back on the fire, it takes about 
five or six minutes to finisb it. 

Of Sorrel, — Proceed as with spinach in every particu- 
lar. 

Of Mushrooms, — Clean well and cut in pieces a quart 
of fresh mushrooms ; soak them in cold water, in which 
you have put the juice of a lemon ; drain, and chop them 
fine. Put a stewpan on the fire, with a piece of butter 
the size of a duck's egg ; when melted, put your mush« 
rooms in ; when half fried, add the juice of a lemon, finish 
frying, then cover with some rouz-sauce ; let simmer till 
it becomes rather thick, strain and use. 

Of Onions, — ^Peel, quarter, and blanch for eight min- 
utes, a dozen onions. Drain and put them in a saucepan 
with four or six ounces of butter, according to the size of 
the onions ; set on a slow fire, stir now and then till well 
done; then season with salt, a little flour, stir for two 
minutes to cook the fiour, and mix it thoroughly with the 
rest ; take from the fire ; add cream, little by little, stirring 
the while. It does not require much cream to make the 



124 FAS0S3 AND GASNnC&ES. 

purSe of a proper thickness. Mash throagh a sieve or fine 
colander, add a pinch of sugar, and it is ready for nse. 

It makes an excellent puree^ and is good served with 
nearly every kind of meat 

Made with white onions, and properly mashed through 
a sieve, it looks like cream, and is almost as white aa 
•now. 



PISH. 



Thb Indians bleed tlie fish as soon as caught^ because 
the flesh is firmer 'when cooked. 

The Batch and the French bleed the cod, which ac- 
counts for the better quality and whiteness of their cod- 
fish. 

"^ To select — ^To be good, fish must be fresh. It is 
fresh when the eyes are clear, the fins stiff, the gills red, 
hard to open, and without bad odor. 

To clean and prepare for boUing^'^The sooner fish is 
cleaned the better. Cut the belly open, take the inside 
out, wash well and wipe dry immediately with a clean 
towel, inside and out Place the eggs or soft roes inside, 
and tie with twine. It is then ready to be boiled. 

If not cooked as soon as cleaned and prepared, keep 
it on ice. 

To clean and prepare for hakin^y frying ^ roasting, and 
to cut in pieces, etc. — Scale the fish well, holding it by the 
head or tail ; cut the belly open aiid take the inside out ; 
trim off the fins, gills, and t&U ; wash well inside and out, 
and wipe dry immediately. 

Keep it on ice if not used immediately. 

Same Family, or Kind. — ^We give only one receipt for 
all the fishes of the same family, or having the same kind 



126 FIBH. 

of flesh, as they are cooked alike, and require the same 
spices. 

Almost every kind of fish is boiled, broiled, fried, or 
stewed. Some are better boiled than broiled, others bet- 
ter fried than stewed, etc. With few exceptions, any eat- 
able fish may be cooked in these four ways^ Few are 
roasted. 

To know when cooked eruywgK — ^It is very difficult, if 
not entirely impossible, to tell how long it takes to cook 
fish, as it depends as much on the size, kind, or quality of 
the fish as on the fire ; but as soon as the flesh comes off 
the bones easily, the fish is cooked ; this is very easy to be 
ascertained with a knife. 

To improve. — Clean the fish as for baking, etc., and lay 
it in a crockery vessel with the following seasonings under 
and upon it : parsley and onions chopped fine, salt, pep- 
per, thyme, bay-leaves, and vinegar or oil ; tnrn it over 
occasionally, and leave thus for two or three hours. 

To hone. — Slit the fish on one side of the backbone 
and fins, from head to tail ; then run the knife between 
the bones and the flesh so as to detach the whole side 
from the rest ; do the same for the other side. 

For a flounder, or any other flat flsh, slit right in the 
middle of both sides of the fish so as to make four in- 
stead of two pieces. 

The head, bones, and fins are not used at all, and are 
left in one piece. 

To serve, token &at/e(f.<— The flsh is placed on a napkin 
and on a dish or platter, surrounded with parsley, and the 
sauce served in a saucer. 

To skin, — ^Take hold of the piece of fish by the smaller 
end, and with the thumb and forefinger of the left hand ; 
run the knife between the flesh and akin, movins^ the knlfo 



FIBH. 



127 



to and fro as if yon were sawmg. Throw away tlie akin, 
and the fish is ready for cooking. 

If the skin were breaking, as it happens sometimes, 
take hold of it again, and proceed as before. 

To decorate. — Fish may be decorated with jelly, but 
it is easier and more sightly with craw-fish. The skewers 
are stack in the fish as they are in a fillet of beef. 

The craw-fish when boiled are red like the lobster, and, 
besides nsing them with skewers, some noay be placed all 
aronnd the fish; it is delicate eating as well as sightly. 
Skewers are neyer used with fish in mnaigrette^ or when the 
fish is cut in pieces. The craw-fish has only to be boiled 
before using it for decorating fish. 

Shrimps and pratona are used the same as craw-fish. 

Oysters are also used, raw or blanched ; run the skewer 
through a large oyster or craw-fish, then through a slice 
of truffle ; again through an oyster, truffle, etc. ; through 
two, three, or more of each, according to the size of the 
skewer or of the fish. 

Mshrkettle. — ^A fish-kettle must have a double bottom. 
It is more handy to take the fish off without breaking it, 



d 




and there is no danger of having it spoiled while cooking 
Pish-kettles are found in every house-furnishing store. 



128 FISH. 

Baked, — Clean and prepare tlie fish, as directed fot 
baMng ; put it in a baking-pan with salt, pepper, and bat- 
ter spread all over it ; just €oyer tbe bottom of the pan 
with water or broth ; place a piece of buttered paper over 
it and bake. Baste two or three times ; take off when 
done, and serve warm with a sauce. 

While the fish is baking you prepare the sauce, put it 
in a boat, and serve warm with the fish. 

A baked fish may be served with its gravy only, add- 
ing a few drops of. lemon-juice or vinegar, or with any 
kind of sauce, according to taste. 

Balls. — ^Fish-balls are often called fish-cakes or fish-- 
croquettes. They are generally made wdth cold fish, but 
it may be cooked especially to make balls. 

Fish, full of bones, like shad, is not fit to make balls ; 
cod is the easiest. 

Commence by chopping the flesh very fine, then chop 
fine also a small piece of onion and fry it with butter 
(half a middling-sized onion with two ounces of butter are 
enough for half a pound of fish) ; when fried stir in it a 
tablespoonful of flour, and about half a minute after turn 
the fish in with about a gill of broth or water, salt, pepper, 
and a pinch of nutmeg ; stir till it turns rather thick, which 
will take two or three minutes ; take from the fire, mix two 
yolks of eggs with it ; put back on the fire for about one 
minute, stirring the while ; then add two or three mush- 
rooms or one truffle, or both, chopped fine. Turn the 
mixture into a dish, spread it, and put it away to cool for 
two or three hours, or over night. 

Before cooking, mix the whole well, the upper part 
being more dry than that which is under; put it in parts 
on the paste-board, roll each part to the shape you wish, 
either round, oval, or flat ; the paste-board may be dusted 



FISH. 129 

with bread-crambs or flour to help in handling the mixture , 
then boil or fry, according to taste. 

It may also be baked in cakes. 

When fried, tbey may be dipped in beaten egg, rolled 
in bread-crambs, and tben Med in hot fiit. {See Fbtino.) 

Boiled, — Clean and prepare the flsh as directed, and 
put it in a fish-kettle ; cover it with cold water (sea-water 
is the best) ; add the following seasonings to a pound of 
fish : two stalks of parsley, one of tarragon if handy, one 
tablespoonful of vinegar, and half a middling-sized onion 
sliced ; salt if boiled in fresh water. Set on the fire, and, 
for a fish weighing two pounds or under, take off at the 
first boiling — ^it is done enough. For a fish weighing five 
pounds, boil five minutes, etc., that is, about one minute 
for each pound. If it were a thick slice of fish instead of 
a whole one, weighing two or three pounds, it should be 
boiled two or three minutes longer, etc., according to 
thickness. 

Broiled. — Slit the fish on the back and clean it ; salt 
and pepper it ; have a little melted butter and spread it all 
over the fish, on both sides, with a brush, and broil it. 
{See Broiling.) 

While the fish is broiling, prepare a maitre d^ hotel 
sauce, spread it on the fish as soon as dished, and serve. 

It may also be served with anchovy butter. 

Fried, — ^Any small fish of the size of a smelt^ or smaller, 
is better fried than prepared in any other way. 

Clean and prepare the fish as directed, wipe it dry. 
Dip it in milk, place in a colander for five minutes, then 
roll in flour, and fry. It may also be fried just rolled in flour. 

Another toay, — ^When wiped dry, dip in beaten egg, 
toll in breaul-crumbs, and fry. 

Another, — ^When wiped dry, dip the fish in buttei, and 
6* 



180 msH. 

fry. Then the fish is dropped in hot fat {see Fbtiho), 
turned into a colander, salted, and served hot, ivith fried 
parsley around or in the middle, according to how the fish 
is arranged in the dish. 

Fry the following as above : carp^ tench^ frosty hdss^ 
perchf black and blue fish, goldy loach, mullet, porgy, weak, 
j^ounder, pike, pickerel, smelt, sun, herring, and white-fish 
of the lakes, 

A la Orly. — If it is small fish, like the smelt, it is pre- 
pared whole ; if the fish is laiger, it must be boned and 
skinned, and cut in pieces about two inches long. Roll 
the fish, or pieces of fish, slightly in flour ; dip it in beaten 
egg, and roll it again in brcad-K^mmbs ; then fry it in hot 
fat as above. 

When Med, serve it with a tomato-sauce. 

The fish may be served on a napkin in a dish, and the 
sauce in a boat or saucer. 

Boasted, — ^The following fishes only are roasted : eel, 
salmon, shad, pike, turbot. 

Clean and prepare as directed, and then tie with twine. 
Spread salt, pepper, and melted butter (with a brush) all 
over the fish, and then envelop it in buttered paper ; set 
on the spit and roast Baste with a little melted butter, 
and remove the paper about five minutes before it is done. 

When on the dish the twine is cut ofif and removed, 
and it is served as hot as possible with the following sauces, 
to which tarragon is added in making them, ii handy : 
caper, ffollandadse, Mayonnaise, piquante, poivrade, and 
remolade, A roast fish is served after roast meat. 

Another way. — Clean, and cut in slices half an inch 
thick, or leave entire, as it suits you ; skin it weD ; lay it 
m a crockery vessel, spread over it some chopped parsley, 
grated nutmeg, salt, pepper, and two gills of white wine' 



FISH. 131 

(diis 18 for abont three pounds), leave tliiis two hours ; 
then take the fish only, envelop it in buttered paper, fix it 
on the spit before a good fire, baste with the wine and 
seasonings from the crockery dish, and when nearly done 
take the paper off; finish the cooking, basting the while, 
and serve with the drippings, to which you may add a lit- 
tle vinegar, sweet-oil, and mustard. 

If there is any left, you can serve it cold the next day 
with an oil-sauce. 

SauU. — Scale, clean, and prepare the fish as directed. 
For one pound of fish put about one ounce of butter in a 
frying-pan on the fire, and when melted put the fish in ; 
fry it on both sides, and serve it with a maitre tPhdtel, 

Stewed, — Clean and prepare as directed three pounds 
of fish, cut it in pieces about two inches long. Put in a 
fish-kettle four ounces of butter, kneaded with a teaspoon- 
fill of flour; and the same of chopped parsley, add two or 
three mushrooms cut in pieces, salt and pepper, then the 
fish and a glass of claret wine, or a wine-glass of vinegar ; 
cover with water, set on a good fire, boil gently till cooked; 
dish the pieces of fish, strain the sauce on them, spread 
the pieces of mushrooms over, and serve. 

Stuffed. — ^When cleansed, cut out the backbone from 
the head to within two inches of the tail, and fill its place 
with the following mixture : soak stale bread in cold water 
and then squeeze the water out ; put one ounce of butter 
into a saucepan and set it on the fire ; as soon as melted, 
fry in it one middlensized onion, chopped fine ; then add the 
bread ; stir for two minutes, add also salt, pepper, a pinch 
of nutmeg, two or three tablespoonfrils of broth ; stir again 
two or three minutes ; take the pan from the fire, add a 
yolk of e^, put back on the fire for half a minute, stir- 
ring the while, take off again, add a teaspoonfiil of chopped 



132 FISH. 

parsley, and use. When full, tie the fish with twine ; pkce 
it in a baking-pan, salt and pepper it ; spread a little but* 
ter on it also ; cover the bottom of the pan with cold wa» 
ter, bake and serve with its gravy. 

If there is not gravy enough, or if it has dried away, 
add a little broth a few minutes before taking from the 
oven. 

Fish au Gratin, — ^Bone and skin the fish as directed. 
For a fish weighing about two pounds, spread one ounce 
of butter on a tin plate or baking-pan, spread over it half 
an onion, chopped ; place the pieces of fish on them ; add 
salt, pepper, a tablespoonful of vinegar or a wine-glass of 
white wine, and half an ounce of butter ; spread over and 
bake. 

While it is baking, put in a small saucepan one ounce 
of butter, and set it on the fire ; when melted, add half a 
tablespoonful of flour, stir, and, when it is turning yellow, 
add also about one gill of broth, two tablespoonfiils of 
meat-gravy, the juice of the fish when baked (if the fish 
be not done when the time comes to put the juice in the 
pan, keep the pan in a warm place, and wait), salt, and pep- 
per ; boil gently about five minutes, stirring occasionally. 
Place the fish in a tin or sOver dish, spread three or four 
mushrooms sliced over it ; turn the sauce gently over the 
whole, dust with bread-crumbs ; put half an ounce of but- 
ter, in four or five pieces, on the whole ; bake ten or twelve 
minutes, and serve in the dish in which it is. 

Jn Matelote. — ^Eveiy kind of fish is good in matelote, 
bat the following are the best : bass, black-fish, blue-fish, 
carp, eel, perch, pickerel, pike, porgy, tench, trout, and crato* 
fish. 

A matelote may be made of eels alone, but it is l>ettci 
with eels and one, two, or three other kinds of fish« 



FISH. * 133 

Eels tasting of mad are not good. There is a sure 
way of taking away the mnddy taste, bat it is a rather 
expensive one. Boil them a few minates in claret wine 
and a little salt, before nsing them. 

Clean, and prepare as directed, one pound of eels, one 
pound of pike, and one pound of trout, or one pound of 
any of the fishes named above — ^in all, three pounds. Cut 
the fish in pieces about two inches long:, fiy it slightly with 
a httle butter, and put it away for awhile. 

Put four ounces of butter in a saucepan and set it on 
the fire ; when melted, add two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
stir, and, when the flour is turning rather brown, add also 
about a quart of broth, a pint of claret, a bunch of sea* 
sonings, composed of half a dozen stalks of parsley, two 
of thyme, two bay-leaves, and two cloves, also salt, pepper, 
two cloves of garlic, and six button onions; boil gently 
for about half an hour. Then put the fish in with from 
six to twelve mushrooms, broth enough to cover the whole, 
if the broth and wine already in do not cover it; boil 
gently for about half an hour, or till the fish is cooked, 
tossing the saucepan now and then ; dish the fish ; place 
the mushrooms and onions all over; sprinkle the sauce 
over it through a strainer, and serve warm. Croutons may 
be served around. 

Another, of Mariniere, — Prepare and cut the fish as 
for the above, but instead of frying it put it in a sauce- 
pan, into which you have put previously about half a 
dozen sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, two bay-leaves, two 
cloves of garlic, twelve small onions, two cloves, salt, and 
pepper ; when the fish is placed over the above seasonings, 
cover entirely with claret wine. Set the saucepan on a 
sharp fire, and, as soon as it boils, throw into it a glass of 
French brandy, set it on fire, and let it bum. It wiU not 



134 FISB. 

bum very long, but enough to give a good taste to it. As 
soon as it stops burning, knead four ounces of butter with 
a tablespoonful of flour, and put it in tbe pan; toss 
the pan gently now and then till done. It takes about 
forty minutes with a good fire. 

When done, dish the fish carefully, place the mush- 
rooms all over it, the onions all around, strain the sauce 
over the whole, and serve warm. 

Croutons may also be served with the rest ; put around 
the fish one crouton, then an onion, and so on, all 
around. 

AnotJier. — ^Proceed as for the above, in every particu- 
lar, except that you cover the fish and seasonings with 
broth and white wine, half of each, instead of claret 
Serve in the same way. 

A matelote may be made three or four days in advance, 
and then warmed in boiling water (bain-marie) just before 
serving it. 

Many prefer a matelote made four days before eating 
it, and prepared in the following way : When made, put 
it away to cool as quickly as possible ; twenty-four hours 
after that, warm it in boiling water ; cool, and warm again 
in the same way once a day. If the sauce becomes thick, 
add a little broth. Serve warm. 

Vinaiffrette-^Boil a fish as directed, take it from the 
kettle and let cool ; then dish it. Chop fine the yolks of 
two hard-boiled eggs ; do the same with the two whites ; 
chop also a handful of parsley. Put a string of the yolks 
on both sides of the fish, then along that a string of the 
whites, and along these a string of the parsley ; along the 
parsley, and about half an inch apart, a string of capers. 
Cut a lemon in sixteen slices, and in the following way : 
first split the lemon in two lengthwise, then split again 



FIBH. 135 

each half in two and lengthwise also ; by splitting four 
times, you have sixteen pieces, resembling somewhat the 
carpels of oranges. After the first splitting, hold the piece 
of lemon with the nail of the left thnrob, the rind down- 
ward, and always split lengthwise and in the middle. Place 
eight pieces on each side of the dish and along the capers, 
and serve cold, with stalks of parsley on top of the fish, 
and also two or three in its month. 

Serve with it a vinaigrette, in a sancer or boat. 

The following fishes, basSy black and blue fish, carp, eat^ 
dory, drum, gar, gurnard, herring, king, lump, mackerel, 
parr, perch, pickerel, pike, pilot, porgy, roach, rock, ecup^ 
sucker, sword, tautog, tench, trout, troutlet, weak, and weaver 
after being baked or boiled as directed, may be served with 
the following sances : anchovy, caper, genevoise, ghunse, au 
gratin, Sollandaise, Italienne^ matelote, tomato, Tartar, and 
vinaigrette. 

It wonld be peifectly useless to have a receipt for each 
fish, since the preparation is the same. 

The same fishes are also prepared au court bouillon. 
Clean and prepare about three pounds of fish, as directed 
for baking, etc. It may be one fish or several, according 
to size. Place the fish in a fish-ketUe, just cover it with 
cold water and a gill of vinegar, or with half water and 
half white wine ; season with three or four sprigs of pars- 
ley, one of thyme, a bay-lea^ one clove, one onion, half a 
carrot (in slices), two cloves of garlic, salt, pepper, and a 
little tarragon, if handy. Set on the fire, and boil gently 
till done. Dish the fish, and serve it warm with a caper or 
anchovy sauce in a boat, or with currant jelly. 

The same — h la jSretonne.-— Slit the fish on the back, 
as for broiling, and clean it When wiped dry, lay it in a 
bake-pan in which there is a little melted butter, the in- 



136 EIBH. 

sido of the fish nnder ; place thus on a good fire, turn o\et 
when done on one side, and, when cooked, spread some 
maitre cThdtel on it, and serve warm. 

The same — atix fines herhes. — Clean and prepare as 
for baking, etc., and also improve it as directed. Envelop 
the fish in battered paper, and also the seasonings in wludi 
it has been improved, except the thyme and bay-leaves, 
broil it, and serve with piqxiante sauce. 

Cod-fish^ eusk, haddock^ hake^ halibut, pollack, and 
torsk, after being baked or boiled as directed, are served 
with the following sauces : 

Anchovy, Bechamel, caper, cream, egg, SoUandwise* 
maitre d'hdtel, tomato, vinaigrette, 

EEL, CONGER, AND LAMPREY 

To c^n.— When skinned, clean, head, and tail them* 
Then throw them in boiling water, in which you have put 
a little salt and a teaspoonful of vinegar; leave them in it 
about five minutes, take out, and drain. 

Broiled, — ^Clean and cut two pounds of eel, or of either 
of the others, in pieces about three inches long. Put in a 
stewpan a piece of butter the size of an egg, and set it on 
the fire ; when hot, lay the eels in, fry about three min- 
utes, turning them over the while ; then turn the whole in- 
to a crockery vessel, add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley 
and onions, a pinch of grated nutmeg, a tablespoonful of 
Bweet-oil, salt, and pepper ; set on the fire and simmer two 
hours ; take off, roll the pieces in fine bread-crumbs, place 
them on a gridiron, and on a good fire, and serve when 
done with piquante sauce. 

From the nature of their flesh, eels require to be pre- 
pared thus ; and, when properly done, make really a very 
good dish. 



hbh. 137 

Boasted. — ^Prepare the eels as for broiling, and, instead 
tf placing on the gridiron, envelop them in oiled paper 
and roast before a sharp fire. Serve with piqttante^ ravi- 
gote^ or Tartar sauce. 

Fried, — ^Prepare as for broiling as far as rolling in 
bread-crambs, then dip in beaten-e^, roll in bread-crumbs 
again, and fry. {See FnyiNa.) Serve with tomato-sauce, 
or just as it is. 

In Maitre (f Ad^/.^-Clean as directed, but boil twenty 
minutes instead of five. Serve with a maitre d*hdtel sauce 
and steamed potatoes, or with muscle, oyster, shrimp, or 
Tartar sauce. 

Jn Matelote, — {See Fish in Matelotb.) 

Stuffed, — Clean as directed; stuff it with currant 
jelly, bake or roast, and serve with currant jelly. 

Flounder (wrongly called sole; the flounder is as 
good as the sole — ^the soles that may be found here are 
imported from Europe or from Newfoundland), daXhJUhy 
and plaice^ after being baked or boiled, may be served with 
the following sauces : 

Allemandef anchovy^ anehovy-hutter^ Mayonnaise^ toma- 
to, and au ffratin. 

Baked, — Clean three pounds of the above fish. Put 
in a crockery dish four ounces of butter, set it on a good 
fire, and when melted sprinkle in it a teaspoonfdl of flour, 
stirring the while ; also, a pinch of grated nutmeg, salt, 
pepper, a saltspoonful of chopped parsley, two or three 
mushrooms, also chopped, then the fish ; pour on it a glass 
of white wine, and a liquor-glass of French brandy ; cover 
the dish, take it from the fire, and put it in a moderately 
heated oven, and serve when done just as it is, and in the 
crockery dish. 

A la Normande — ^Bone and ekin the fish as directed. 



138 FISH. 

For a fish weighing four pounds, spread two ounces of 
batter on the bottom of a baking-pan ; spread one onion, 
chopped fine, oyer the butter, and as much carrot, cut in 
smaJl dice. Place the fish oyer the whole, the pieces as 
they are, or cut accordbg to the size of the pan, salt and 
pepper, and bake. Take from the oyen when done and 
dish the fish, leaying the juice in the pan ; cut the stems 
of about a dozen mushrooms; place the heads on the 
middle of the fish, and the stems around it 

Mix cold a tablespoonful of flour and the same of but- 
ter in a saucepan, turn into it a pint of broth, set on the 
fire and stir continually; when thoroughly mixed, turn 
into it also, and through a strainer, the juice from the pan 
in which the fish has baked ; stir again two or three min- 
utes ; turn gently oyer the fish, put in the oyen for about 
ten minutes, and senre hot. Croutons may be placed 
around the dish as a decoration. 

Another N'ormande, — ^Bone and skin the fish as direct- 
ed ; butter well the dish on which the fish is to be seryed, 
spread some chopped onion all oyer, then place the fish 
oyer it ; sprinkle salt, pepper, and white wine or yinegar 
(a tablespoonful to a pound of fish), all oyer the fish, and 
bake it It takes about fifteen minutes for a fish weighing 
two or three pounds. Wine is better than yinegar. 

While the fish is baking, set a saucepan on the fire 
^ith an ounce of butter in it, and when melted, add 
half a tablespoonful of flour; stir, and when turning yellow, 
add also half a pint of broth or water, salt, then the juice 
from the fish when baked, stir, giye one boil, and turn 
oyer the fish. 

Blanch a dozen or so of oysters, place them all oyer 
the fish also. 

Haye ready two or three potatoes, cut with a round 



nsH. 1S9 

vegetable spoon; boil tOl done; place them around tbe 
fiah as a border for it ; dnst then the whole with bread- 
crumbs, put iu a warm oven for about fifteen minutes, take 
off, place half a dozen croutons all around the dish also, 
and serve. 

The croutons are generally cut of a heart^hape. It 
will be easily done if the directions are followed properly 
and carefully. 

Commence by cutting the bread, then cut the pota« 
toes, and set them on the fire with cold water and salt ; 
while they are cooking, prepare the fish and set it in the 
oven ; while this is baking, make the sauce, fry the crour 
tons, and blanch the oysters. If the fish is baked be- 
fore the rest are ready, take it off and keep warm till 
wanted. It makes a sightly and excellent dish. 

The same fried, — Small flounders are fried like other 
small fish, and served either with or without a tomato- 
sauce OT h la Orly, 

The same, boned and fried. — ^Bone and skin small 
flounders as directed ; mix together a tablespoonful of oil, 
a teaspoon ful of chopped parsley, the juice of half a lemon, 
and salt ; dip the pieces of fish in the mixture, dust them 
slightly with flour, and fry. Serve hot 

Pike, Pickerel, and Trout or Troutlet. — ^Those three 
fish, besides being prepared as directed for bass, etc., and 
in all its different ways, they are boiled as directed and 
served warm, with a ghunse sauce. 

A more delicious dish of fish can hardly be prepared. 

Ray, Skate, and Angel or Monk fish, — ^Bay, though 
excellent, is very little known; there is only one place 
at which it can be bought— Washington Market, New 
fork. 

It is unquestionably an excellent dish, prepared au 



140 FISH. 

heurre rmr^ When clean, boil the fish as directed, and 
dish it, sprinMiDg salt and pepper on iU 

While it is boiJing, pnt about two ounces of butter to 
a pound of fish in a frying-pan, set it on a sharp fire, stir 
now and then, and when brown, throw into it about six 
sprigs of parsley, which you take off immediately with a 
skimmer. As soon as the parsley is taken off, pour the 
butter over the fish, quickly put two tablespoonfhls of 
vinegar in the firying-pan and over the fire, give one boil, 
and pour also over the fish. Frying the parsley and boil- 
ing the vinegar cannot be done too fast, as the fish must 
be served very wann. The warmer it is served, the better 
it IS. 

Salmon^ sturgeon^ and white-fish^ after beiug baked 
or boiled, may be served with a caper, and also with a 
Mayonnaise sauce. They may also be served in court 
bouUlonf like bass. They are broiled whole, or in slices, 
and served with a maitre cThdtel or a caper sauce. 

The same in Fricandeau, — Cut the fish in slices about 
half an inch thick, and place them in a saucepan with 
slices of .fat salt pork, carrots and onions under them ; set 
on a good fire ; ten minutes after, add a little broth, just 
enough to cover the bottom of the pan ; after about five 
minutes, turn the slices over ; finish the cooking and serve 
with the gravy strained over the fish, or with a tomato- 
sauce. 

The saToe in Papillotes. — Fry slices of salmon with a 
little butter, and until of a golden color ; take them from 
the fire. . While they are frying, mix well together parsley 
chopped fine, salt, pepper, melted butter, grated nutmeg, 
and a little lemon-juice; spread some of the mixture on 
both sides of the slices of fish, envelop them in buttered 
or oiled paper ; broil, and serve them hot 



FXflH. 141 

Some mushrooms or truffles, or both, and chopped, 
may be added to the mixture. 

The same h la Genevoise. — ^Put ia a saucepan a thick 
slice of salmon — ^from five to six pounds; just cover it 
with broth and claret wine — ^haif of each ; season with a 
bunch of seasonings composed of six or eight sprigs of 
parsley, two of thyme, two bay-leaves, two cloves, and two 
cloves of garlic, salt^ a few slices of carrot, and a small 
green onion, or a shallot, if handy. Boil gently till nearly 
done, when add about a dozen mushrooms, and keep 
boiling till done ; dish the fish, and put it in a warm but 
not hot place ; mix cold, in a saucepan, four ounces of but- 
ter with about two ounces of flour ; turn over it, through 
a strainer, the liquor in which the fish has been cooked, 
and set on a sharp fire ; after about three minutes, during 
which you have stirred with a wooden spoon, add the 
mushrooms ; stir again for about two minutes, turn over 
the fish, and serve warm. 

The same in Salad. — ^Boil, as directed for fish, some 
thin slices of salmon, drain, and serve cold, on a napkin 
and on a dish. 

Serve with it, and in a boat, the following : half a 
teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of pepper, two tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar, four of sweet oil, a pickled cucumber chopped 
fine, two hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine also, two or three 
anchovies, and a tablespoonful of capers; the anchovies 
may be chopped fine or pounded. Beat the whole well 
and serve. 

The eame in Scallops. — ^Cut it in round slices, about 
one-eighth of an inch in thickness; fry them with butter, 
and serve. 

The pieces should be tastefully arranged on a dish, 
imitating a flight of stairs. 



142 FISH. 

BrcUed. — Gut it in rather thin slices, batter both sidci 
with a brush ; broil, and serve with a maitre cThdteL 

Shad and she^^s-head, after being baked or boiled, 
are served with an anchovy, caper, or tomato sauce. They 
are also served cold, h la vinaigrette. 

Broiled. — ^When cleaned and prepared, sa3t, pepper, 
and butter it ; broil and serve it with a maitre d*?iotel. 

It may be stuffed as directed for fish. 

In Provenpale. — Clean, prepare, and cut the fish in 
pieces about two inches long; put about three -pounds of 
it in a saucepan, with a pint of claret ; six stalks of pars- 
ley, a small onion, a clove of garlic, and six mushrooms, 
all chopped fine ; boil till done, when add four ounces of 
butter, and two of flour, well kneaded together; boil 
three minutes longer, and serve warm. 

Another way, or a la Chamhord. — Stuff the fish with 
sausage-meat, envelop it in a towel, boH, and serve it with 
a tomato-sauce. 

The eame with Sorrel. — ^Broil the fish, and serve it on 
a purSe of sorrel or of spinach. 

It may also be prepared au court houUlon, h la Bre* 
torme^ and aux fines herbes, like bass, etc 

Sheep^s-head may also be prepared like turbot. 

Au Oratin. — ^The shad, after being cleaned, but not 
split on the back (as is too often the case, to the shame 
of the fishmongers who begin by spoiling the fish under 
the pretence of cleaning it), is placed in a bake-pan, hav- 
ing butter, chopped parsley, mushroom, salt, and pepper, 
both under and above the fish. For a fish weighing three 
pounds, add one gill of broth and half as much of white 
wine ; dust the fish with bread-crumbs, and set in a pretty 
quick oven. 

Fifteen minutes afterward, examine it When done, 



I1BH. 143 

the fish is dished, a litUe broth is pat in the pan, which is 
placed on a sharp fire ; stir with a spoon or fork so as to 
detach the bread, etc., that may stick to the pan, then 
pour this OTer the fish, and serve warm. 

The gravy mnst be reduced to two or three tablespoon- 
fids only, for a fish weighing about two pounds. 

The fish must be dished carefully in order not to 
break it. 

Sterlet. — ^Tbis is. a fish of the sturgeon family, very 
plentiful in the Caspian Sea and in many Russian rivers, 
principally in the Neva and in Lake Ladoga. 

Tunny and bonitOj after being boiled, are served cold in 
vinaigrette, 

Turbot and TFAi/f.-^-Turbot is among fishes what 
pheasant is among birds. Bub it with lemon before 
cooking it 

After being boiled or baked, as directed, it is served 
with the following sauces : B^ehamel^ creamy caper j JEToHan- 
daisCj MayoMMdee^ tomato^ and in vinaigrette* 

It is also served au caurt-bouitton and aux fines herbee 
like bass. 

Au Gratin. — ^It is prepared and served like shad au 
gratin. 

It is also broiled and served with a maitre cPhStd. 

Bardelaise. — ^Bone and skin the fish as directed ; dip 
each piece in melted butter, then in beaten egg, roll in 
bread-crumbs and broil While it is broiling on a rather 
slow fire, turn it over several times and keep basting with 
melted butter ; the more batter it absorbs the better the 
fish. 

When broiled, serve the slices on a dish and pUce 
some boiled craw-fish all around and in the middle. A 
dish of steamed potatoes is served with it. 



144 mm. 

The following sauce is also served at the same time : 
Chop fine and fry till half done, with a little batter, two 
small green onions or four shallots. Put half a pint of 
good meat-gravy in a small saucepan ; set on the fire, and 
as soon as it commences to boil, pour into it, little by 
little, stirring the while with a wooden spoon, about a gill 
of Bordeaux wine, then the onions or shallots, and also a 
piece of beef marrow chopped fine ; give one boil, and 
serve in a saucer. 

In Salad, — ^Proceed' as for salmon in salad. 

When boiled, serve the turbot with anchovy-butter, 
lobsteivbutter, lobster-sauce, or muscle-sauce. 

Cold. — ^Any cold piece of turbot is' served with a 
Mayonnaise sauce, or in vinaigrette. 

Cold Fish.^^lf the fish is with sauce, that is, if the 
sauce is in the same dish with the fish, warm it in the 
hainr^marie, and serve warm. Any other piece of cold fish, 
baked, boiled, broiled, or roasted, is served with a Mayon- 
naise sauce, or with a vinaigrette. 

Any kind of cold fish may be prepared in salad. 
Slice the fish or cut it in pieces and put it in the salad- 
dish with hard-boiled egg sliced, onion and parsley 
chopped fine, salt, pepper, vinegar, and oil Mix the 
whole gently and well, and serve. 

Anchovy. — ^It is imported preserved. It is used as a 
hors-d*ceuvre, to decorate or season. 

The essence of anchovy is used for sauce. 

The smallest are considered the best. 

To serve as a hors d^ixuvre, wash, wipe dry, and re- 
move the backbone, serve with tarragon or parsley, 
chopped fine, vinegar, and oil 

They may also be served with hard-boiled eggs, 
chopped or quartered. 



HBH. 145 

Sprats. — ^There are none in or near American waters; 
they are imported nnder their French name, sardines. 
Fresh sprats are very good boiled without any grease, and 
without being cleaned and prepared like other fish ; but 
when on the plate, skin them, which is easily done, as 
then the flesh is so easily detached from the bones that 
the inside need not be touched at all ; they are eaten 
with salt and pepper only. 

Sardines are served as a hors-d*ceuvrey with oil and 
lemon-juice, and properly scaled. They are arranged on 
the dish according to fancy, together with lemon in 
slices. 

Salt Cod — to prepare. — Soak it in cold water for 
two days, changing the water two or three times ; then 
scale it well and clean. Lay it in a fish-kettle, cover with 
cold water, set on a rather slow fire, sHm off the scum, 
let it boil about one minute, take the kettle from the fire, 
cover it well, and leave thus ten minutes; then take off 
the cod, and drain it. 

In Bechamel. — ^Prepare it as above, and serve with a 
bechamel sauce, and as warm as possible. 

With a Cream-Sauee. — ^Prepare as above, and serve 
either warm or cold with a cream-sauce. 

In Brown Butter. — ^When prepared as above, place it 
on a dish, and keep it in a warm place. Put four ounces 
of butter in a frying-pan, and on a good fire ; when turn- 
ing brown, add three sprigs of parsley, fry about two 
minutes, pour the whole on the fish, and serve. You may 
also pour on it a hot caper-sauce, and serve. 

With Croutons, — ^Prepare and cook as directed, three 
pounds of cod ; take the bones out, break in smaU pieces, 
and mash with the hand as much as possible ; put it then 
in a stewpan, beat three yolks of eggs with two table- 

7 



146 FISH. 

spoonfhls of cream, and mix witb the cod ; set od a slow 
fire, and immediately pour in, little by little, stirring the 
while, about one gill of sweet oil ; simmer ten or twelve 
minutes, and serve with croutons around. 

In Maitre (THdtel. — ^Lay three pounds of cod on a 
dish, after being cooked as directed ; keep it warm, spread 
a maitre cThdtel sauce on it, and serve. 

With Potatoes, — ^Prepare about three pounds of cod 
as directed above. Lay the fish on a dish; have a 
piquante sauce ready, turn it oyer it, and serve with 
steamed potatoes all around the dish. The potatoes may 
also be served separately. 

In Vinaigrette, — Prepare as directed, and when cold, 
serve with a vinaigrette. 

With Cheese. — ^Prepare the cod as directed, then dip 
it in lukewarm butter, roll it in grated cheese, lay it in a 
baking-pan, dust slightly with bread-crumbs ; bake, and 
serve warm. Two or three minutes in a quick oven will be 
sufficient. 

Au Gratin, — ^When soaked only and wiped dry, but 
not boiled, prepare it as directed for fish au gratin. 

With Caper-Sauce, — ^Prepare it as directed, and serve 
warm with caper-sauce. 

Salt Salmon. — Soak it in cold water for some time, 
the length of time to be according to the saltness of the 
fish ; scale and clean it well, lay it in a fish-kettle, cover 
it with cold water, and set it on a moderate fire. Boil 
gently about two minutes, skim off the scum, take from 
the kettle and drain it Put butter in a frying-pan and 
set It on the fire ; when it turns rather brown, put a few 
spiigs of parsley in it, and immediately pour it over the 
fish in the dish ; add a few drops of lemon-juice all over, 
and serve warm. 



FISH. 14T 

It may also be Mrred with a caper or tnaitre cThdid 
lance ;^ or, when cold, serve h la vinaigrette. 

Salt salmon is also served like salt cod-fish. 

It may also be served on apurSe of celery or of onion. 

Smoied Salmon, — Cnt it in thin slices ; have very hot 
batter or oil in a frying-pan, and lay the slices in only 
long enough to warm them ; then take ont, drain them, 
and serve with a few drops of lemon-juice or vinegar 
sprinkled on them. 

Tunny. — ^This is not a good fish fresh ; it is generally 
preserved, and served as a hors-^Tceuvre. It comes from 
Holland, Italy, and the south of France. 

Fresh, it is prepared like sturgeon. That prepared in 
Holland is the best. The Dutch cure fish better than any 
other nation. 

When you serve tunny, take it out of the bottle or jar 
and serve it on a small plate, or on a dessert-plate. A 
very small piece is served, generally like every other hors- 
tTceuvre, 

Salt Herring, — Soak in cold or tepid water ; if soaked 
in tepid water, it does not require as long; the time must 
be according to the quality or saltness of the fish. Wipe 
dry, broil, and serve like salt mackereL 

Another way, — Salt herring may also be soaked in 
half water and half milk, or in milk only ; drain and wipe 
dry. Bone and skin, cut off the head, tail, and fins, and 
serve with oil, vinegar, and pickled cucumbers. 

They are also served with slices of sour apples, or 
slices of onions, after being soaked and wiped dry. 

They may also be broiled slightly and served with oil 
only, after being soaked, or served with sour grape-juice. 

Salt Pike, — It is prepared and served the same as 
lalt herring ; so is pickled trout. 



Lis usH. 

Bed Herring, — ^Wipe or eHn them, they are not aa 
good when washed ; cnt off the head and tail, spKt the 
back open, lay them on a warm and well-greased gridiron, 
set on a slow fire ; spread some batter or oil on them, turn 
over, do the same on the other side ; broil Tery little, and 
serve with a vinaigrette and mustard to taste. 

Another way, — Clean and split them as above, soak 
them in hikew&rm water for two hours ; take out, drain, 
and wipe dry. Mix two or three yolks of eggs with a 
teaspoonfdl of chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and a little 
melted butter; put some of the mixture around every 
herring, then roll them in fine bread-crumbs, place them 
on a gridiron on a slow fire, and when lightly broiled, 
serve as the preceding one. 

Bed herring may also be broiled with bread-crumbs 
like salt herring. 

It is also served as a hore-^ceuvre^ cut in slices. 

Salt Mackerel hroUed. — ^If the fish be too salt, soak 
it for a while in lukewarm water, take off and wipe dry. 
Have a little melted &t or lard, dip a brush in it and 
grease slightly both sides of the fish ; place on or inside 
of the gridiron, the bars of which must also be greased ; set 
on, or before, or under a pretty sharp fire; broil both 
sides ; dish the fish, the skin under ; spread butter on it ; 
also parsley chopped fine, and serve. 

Lemon-juice may be added if liked, or a few drops 
of vinegar. 

When broiled and dished, spread a maitre cThdtel on 
it, and serve. 

Another way, — When soaked and wiped dry, dip in 
melted butter, again in beaten eggs, and roll in bread* 
cnmibs. Broil and serve with parsley and lemon-juice, or 
with a maitre dPhdteL 



FIBH. 149 

FROGS. 

The hind-legs of frogs only are nsed as food ; former* 
\j they were eaten by the French only, bnt now, frog-eat- 
ing has become general, and the Americans are not behind 
any others in relishing that Hnd of food. 

jFWft?.— -Skin well, and throw into boiling water with 
a little salt, for fiye minutes, the hind-legs only ; take ont 
and throw them in cold water to cool, and drain. Ha^e 
hot fiit in a pan on the fire (see Dirbctions fob Fbt- 
nro) ; lay the frogs in, and ser^e wben done with fried 
parsley aronnd. 

Steufed.'^SkiQ^ boil five muintes, throw in cold water, 
and drain as above. Put in a stewpan two ounces of but 
ter (for two dozen frogs) ; set it on the fire, and wher 
melted, lay the legs in, fry two minutes, tossing now and 
then ; then sprinkle on them a teaspoonful of flour, stir 
with a wooden spoon, add two sprigs of parsley, one of 
thyme, a bay-leaf, two cloves, one of garlic, wdt, white 
pepper, and half a pint of white wine; boil gently till 
done, dish the legs, reduce the sauce on the fire, strain it, 
mix in it two yolks of eggs, pour on the legs, and serve 
them. 

LOBSTER. 

Never buy a dead lobster. 

Large lobsters are not as good as small ones. From 
about one to two pounds and a half in weight are the 
best. The heavier the better. 

Lobsters are better at some seasons of the year than at 
others. They are inferior when full of eggs. 

It is from mere prejudice that the liver (also caUed torn- 
alley) IS eschewed. This prejudice may come from its 
taming green on boiling the lobster. 



150 nsH. 

Use every thing but tlie stomach and the blaclc of 
bluish yein running along its back and tail. 

Boil your lobsters yourself; because, if you buy 
them already boiled, you do not know if they were alive 
when put in the kettle. 

A lobster boiled after being dead is watery, soft, and 
not full ; besides being very unhealthy, if not dangerous. 

A lobster suffers less by being put in cold than in boil- 
ing water, and the flesh is firmer when done. In putting 
it in boiling water it is killed by the heat ; in cold water 
it is dead as soon as the water gets warm. 

To boU^Lay it in a fish-kettle ; just cover it with cold 
water, cover the ketUe, and set it on a sharp fire* 

It takes from fifteen to twenty-five minutes' boiling, 
according to the size of the lobster. 

When boiled, take it from the kettle, break it in two, 
that is, separate the body from the tail, and place it in a 
colander to let the water drain. 

In the shell. — ^When the lobster is boiled, dinde it in 
two, taking care not to break the body and large claws. 
The tail is then split in two, lengthwise, the flesh taken 
off, cut in small dice, and mixed with the inside of the 
lobster. 

The vein found immediately under the shell, all along 
the flesh of the lobster, is removed as soon as it is split. 
The stomach, found near the head, is removed also and 
thrown away ; all the rest is good, including the liver. 

When the flesh and inside are properly mixed, season 
with salt, pepper, vinegar, oil, mustard, and chopped pars- 
ley. 

Place tlie body of the lobster on the middle of a dish, 
the head up, the two large claws stretched out, and the 
two feelers stretched out also and fastened between the 



FISH. 151 

dmwVb A sprig of parsley is put in each claw, at tHe end 
of it, in tbe small claws as well as in tbe two large oneb. 
Then the two empty halves of the tail-piece are pnt around 
the body of the lobster, the prepared flesh placed around 
them ; hard-boiled eggs cut in eight pieces each are placed 
around the dish, tastefully arranged ; some slices of red, 
pickled beets and cut with paste-cutters, are placed be- 
tween each piece of egg, and serve. 

It makes a simple, good, and very sightly dish. 

Half a dozen boiled craw-fish may be placed around 
the dish also ; it will add to the decoration. 

Two middlingHsized lobsters prepared thus will fill a 
very large dish. They should be placed back to back, 
wilh only a few craw-fish between, and the rest arranged 
as the above. 

In Salad, — ^Boil the lobster as directed; break and 
drain it as directed also. Slice the flesh of the tail, place 
it tastefully on a dish ; also the flesh from the two laige 
claws, which may be sliced or served whole. Lettuce, or 
hard-boiled eggs, or both, may be arranged on the dish 
also, and served with the following sauce : 

Put in a boat or saucer, all the inside save the stomach, 
with salt, pepper, vinegar, oO, mustard, and chopped pars- 
ley, to taste ; beat and mix the whole well together, and 
serve. In case there are eggs, these are also to be mixed 
with the rest. 

Another, — ^Boil and drain as directed ; cut all the flesh 
ai dice, and put it in a bowl with the inside, some lettuce 
cut rather fine, salt, pepper, vinegar, mustard, and very lit- 
tle oil ; mix well, and then put the mixture on a dish, 
placing it Hke a mound on the middle of the dish ; 
[^read a Mayonnaise sauce over it; decorate with the 
centre leaves of the lettuce, some hard-boiled e^^ cut in 



152 FISH. 

dices or in fimcy shapes, capers, b'>iled or pickled red 
beets, cnt also in Haaicj shapes, slicei of lemon, and scrre. 

Anchovies, olives, picMed cucumbers, or any other 
pickled fruit or vegetable msj also be added. 

A rose, or two or three pinks, may be placed right on 
the top, as a decoration. Just before commencing to serve, 
the rose may be put on a dessert plate and offered to a 
hidy. 

In CoquilUsj or Scalloped, — ^It is boiled and then fin- 
ished like oysters scalloped. 

It maybe served thus on scallop-shells, on silver shells, 
or on its own shell ; that is, on the shell of the tail, split 
in two lengthwise, and trimmed according to fancy. 

Croquettes, — ^Lobster croquettes are made exactly like 
Jisk-balls, and then fried according to directions for frying. 

They are served warm. It is an excellent dish for 
breakfast 

Fried, — To be fried, the lobster must be bled ; separate 
the body from the tail, then cut the tail in pieces, making 
as many pieces as there are joints. Put these pieces in a 
frying-pan with two or three ounces of butter, and one 
onion, chopped fine ; set on a sharp fire, stir now and 
then till the whole is fiied, then add a bunch of seasoning 
composed of three sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a bay- 
leaf, and a clove ; salt, pepper, and three gills of Madeira 
wine ; boil gently till reduced about half; dish the pieces 
of lobster according to fancy ; add two or three tablespoon- 
fuls of gravy to the sauce, stir it, give one boil, and turn 
it over the lobster through a strainer ; serve warm. 

Another way. — Proceed as above in every particular, 
except that you use Sauterne or Catawba wine instead of 
Madeira, and, besides the seasonings, add half a dozen 
moshrooms, or two truffles, or both. 



FISH, 153 

Dub the muMhrooms and tmfflea with the lohsterylhen 
finish and serre as the above. 

Craw-fish, — ^These are found in most of the lakes, 
brooks, and rivers. 

In some places they are called river<rahiy or iresh« 
water crabs. 

They resemble the lobster, and are often taken fot 
yonng lobsters. 

Besides being a beautiful ornament and much used to 
decorate dishes, they are excellent to eat and very 
light 

They are dressed and served like lobsters and crabs. 

Fishermen are sure to find a ready market for them, 
though they are, as yet, very little known. 

Crabs, — Grabs are boiled like lobsters, and may be 
served like lobster, in salad. They are often eaten, only 
boiled, without any seasonings. 

Like lobsters also, to be good, crabs must be put in 
the water alive. 

When well washed and clean, they may be prepared 
in the following way : Put them in a saucepan with slices 
of onions, same of carrots, parsley, chives if handy, thyme, 
bay-leaves, cloves, salt, and pepper-corns ; half cover them 
with white wine, add butter, set on a good fire, and boil 
till done. Serve with parsley only. 

The sauce may be used a second time by adding a lit- 
tle wine. 

The soft'Shell crah is blanched five minutes, ioi^ fried 
like fish. 

It may also be sauU with a little butter, and served 
with a maitre cPhdtel, 

Broil it also, and serve it with a maitre cThdtel, 

Muscles, — These are unwholesome between April and 
1* 



154 FISH. 

September. They mnst be beavji fresh, and of a mid' 
dling size. The very large ones are really ioferior. 

Soak them in water and wash well several times, then 
drain. 

In Poulette» — Put them in a saucepan with a little 
parsley chopped fine, and set them on a pretty good fire ; 
as soon as they are opened, remove the shell to which they 
are not attached, and keep them in a warm place. 

For two quarts of muscles, put two ounces of butter 
in the saucepan in which they have been cooked and in 
which you have left their liquor ; set on the fire, stir, and 
as soon as the butter is melted, add and stir into it a table- 
spoonful of fiour ; when turning a little yellow, add also 
half a dozen pepper-corns, then the muscles ; boil gently 
about ten minutes, stirring occasionally ; take from the 
fire, mix one or two yolks of eggs with it, a little lemon- 
juice, parsley chopped fine, and serve warm. 

Another twry.— -When clean, put them in a saucepan 
with a few slices of carrot, same of onion, two or three 
stalks of parsley, one of thyme, a bay-leaf, two cloves, six 
pepper-corns, and salt. Set on the fire, and take the mus- 
cles from the pan as soon as they open, then remove one 
shell ; put them back in the pan, with as much white wine 
as there is liquor from the muscles ; boil gently about ten 
minutes, add the yolk of an egg, a little lemon-juice, and 
dish the muscles; drain the sauce over them, add a little 
chopped parsley, and serve warm. 

i^ricd— Fry, and serve the muscles like fried oysters. 
They may also be served like scalloped oysters. 

Prawns and Shrimps, — Wash, boil in water and salt, 
and serve. They may be used, like craw-fish, to decorate 
fish after being boiled. 

Another way. — ^Wash well, and put two quarts of them 



FIBH. 155 

m a saacepan idth four onionfl in slices, two sprigs of 
parsley, one of thyme, a bay-leaf, two cloves, salt, pepper, 
half a pint of white wine, and two ounces of butter, just 
cover with water and set on a good fire ; when properly 
cooked, drain, and serve warm with green parsley all 
around. The liquor may be used a second time. 

OYSTERS. 

The American oyster is unquestionably the best that 
can be found. It varies in taste according to how it is 
treated, either after being dredged or while embedded ; 
and a(so according to the nature of the soil and water in 
which they have lived. It is very wrong to wash oysters. 
We mean by washing oysters, the abominable habit of 
throwing oysters in cold water, as soon as opened, and 
then sold by the measure. It is more than a pity to thus 
spoil such an excellent and delicate article of food. 

Oysters, like lobsters, are not good when dead. To as- 
certain if they are alive, as soon as opened and when one 
of the shells is removed, touch gently the edge of the 
oyster, and, if alive, it will contract 

Baw, — ^When well washed, open them, detaching the 
upper shell, then detach them from the under shell, but 
leave them on it ; place on a dish, and leave the upper 
shell on every oyster, and serve thus. 

To eat them, you remove the upper shell, sprinkle salt, 
pepper, and lemon-juice on, and eat. 

When raw oysters are served on a table, at which there 
are gentlemen onJy, some shallots, chopped fine and gently 
bruised in a coarse towel, are served with them, on a sep- 
arate dish. The taste of the shallot agrees very well with 
(hat of the oyster. 

A Tartar sauce may be served instead of shallots. 



156 vxBu. 

To blanch, — Set the oysters and a little water on the 
fire in a saucepan, take them off at the first boil, skim off 
the scnm from the top, strain them, and drop them in cold 
water. 

The skimming, straining, and dropping in cold water 
must be done quickly — ^the quicker the better. If allowed 
to stay in the warm water, or out of water, they get tough. 

In dropping them in cold water, see that they are free 
from pieces of shell ; take them with a fork if necessary. 

As soon as in cold water they are ready for use, but 
they must always be drained again before using them. 

When the water used to blanch is employed in pre- 
paring them, it is explained in the different receipts. 

White wine may be used, instead of water, to blanch 
them, according to taste. 

Fried. — Open the oysters, and put them in a colander 
for about half an hour. They must be as well drained as 
possible. Then dip them in ^gg and roll in bread-crumbs 
in the following way : Beat one or two, or three, eggs 
(according to the quantity of oysters to be fried), as for 
an omelet, turn the oysters into the eggs and stir gently ; 
then take one after another, roll in bread-crumbs ; place 
each one on your left hand, in taking them from the 
crumbs, and with the other hand press gently on it. Put 
them away in a cool place for about half an hour, and then 
dip again in ^gg, roll in bread-crumbs, and pie^s in the 
hand as before. It is not indispensable to dip ia egg and 
roll in crumbs a second time; but the oysters are better, 
and you are well repaid for the little extra work it re- 
quires. While you are preparing them, set some fat on 
the fire in a pan, and when hot enough {see Frying) drop 
the oysters in, stir gently, take off with a skimmer when 
fried, turn into a colander, add salt, and serve hot. 



FIBH. 157 

i?oa«^.*— Place the oysters on a hot store or range, 
or on coalsy and as soon as they open take 0% remove one 
shell ; tnm a little melted batter on each, and serve* 

There are several other ways. 

When blanched, they are served on toast, a little 
gravy is added, tibe toast placed on a dessert-plate, and 
served thus. 

Broiled and roasted as above is the same thing. 

Oysters scalloped on their own shell, and placed on 
the range instead of in the oven, are also called broiled. 

Scalloped, — Place the oysters when thoroughly washed 
on a hot stove, and as soon as they open remove one shell, 
the fatter one of the two, and take them from the fire. 
Sprinkle salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and bread-crumbs 
on them ; place on each a piece of butter the size of a 
hazel-nut ; put in the oven about ten minutes, and when 
done add a few drops of meat-gravy, to each, and serve 
hot 

Another, — ^Put a quart of oysters and their liquor in a 
saucepan, set it on the fire, take off at the first boil, and 
drain. Set a saucepan on the fire with two ounces of but- 
ter in it; as soon as melted, add a teaspoonfiil of flour, 
stir, and, when turning rather brown, add the juice of the 
oysters, about a gill of gravy, salt, and pepper; boil gen- 
tly for about ten minutes, stirring now and then. While it 
is boiling, place the oysters on scallop-shells, or on silver 
shells made for that purpose, two or three oysters on each, 
turn some of the above sauce on each, after it has boiled ; 
dust with bread-crumbs, put a little piece of batter on 
each shell, and bake for about twelve minutes in a warm 
oven. 

A dozen silver shells served thus make a sightly and 
excellent dish 



158 FISH. 

Some truffles, chopped fine, may be added to the sauce, 
two mmutes before taking it from the fire. 

Stewed. — ^Procure two quarts of good and firesh oys- 
ters. Set them on a sharp fire, with their liquor and a 
little water, and blanch as directed. Put four ounces of 
butter in a saucepan, set on the fire, and when melted stir 
into it a smail tablespoonful of flour ; as soon as mixed, 
add also a teaspoonfiil of parsley, chopped fine, and about 
half a pint of broth ; boil gently about ten minutes, then 
add the oysters, salt and pepper, boil again about one 
minute, dish the whole, sprinkle lemon-juice on, and serve. 

An oyster soup is often called a stew. 

In PouUtte, — ^In adding chopped mushrooms to the 
stewed oysters, at the same time that the oysters are put 
in the pan, you make them in poulette, 

A la WashingUm. — Fried oysters are called a la Wash- 
ingtorif when two, three, or four very large oysters are put 
together (they adhere very easily), dipped in egg, rolled 
in bread-crumbs, and fried, as directed above. It is neces- 
sary to have a deep pan, and much fat, to immerse them 
completely. 

Pickled oysters are always served as a hors d^oeuwe. 
Place around the oysters some hard-boiled eggs, chopped 
fine, and serve with oil and vinegar. 

Serve them in the same way, with slices of truffles in- 
stead of hard-boiled eggs. 

They may also be served with lemon-juice only. 

Or with shallots chopped fine, and. then bruised in a 
coarse towel This last one is considered of too strong a 
taste for ladies. 

They are also served with a Tartar sauce. 

Scallops, — ^Blanch the scallops for three minutes, drain 
them. Put butter on the fire in a frying-pan, and when 



FIBH. 159 

melted torn the scallops in ; stir now and then, take from 
tho fire when fried, add parsley chopped fine, salt, pepper, 
and serve warm. 

On the Shell, — Chop fine a middliog-^ized onion, and 
fry it with one onnce of bntter. While die onion is frying, 
chop fine also one qnart of scallops and pnt them with the 
onion ; stir for two or three minntes, or till abont half 
fried, when tnm the juice off, pnt back on the fire, and 
add one onnce of bntter, one gill of white wine, stir for 
two or three minntes, and if too thick add the juice yon 
have turned off; take from the fire, and mix a yolk of egg 
with it; add salt, pepper, nutmeg grated, and parsley chopped 
fine. 

Have the scallop shells properly cleaned, or silver shells, 
spread the mixture on the shells ; dust with bread-crumbs, 
put a piece of butter about the size of a hazel-nut on each, 
and put iu an oven, at about 320 deg. Fahr., for from ten 
to fifteen minutes. 

This is a dish for breakfast 

Scallop, scollop, or escalop, are one and the same fish. 

CLAMa 

Wash clean with a scrubbing-brush and put them in 
a kettle ; set on a good fire, and leave till they are wide 
open ; then take from the kettle, cut each in two or three 
pieces, put them in a stewpan with all the water they have 
disgorged in the kettle, and about four ounces of butter 
for filly clams ; boil slowly about an hour, take from the 
fire, and mix with the whole two beaten eggs, and serve 
warm. 

Clams are also eaten raw with vinegar, salt, and pepper. 

Chowder. — ^This popular dish is made in a hundred 
different ways, but the result is about the same. 



160 FISH. 

It is geDerallj admitted that boatmen prepare it bettei 
than others, and the receipts we give below came from 
the most experienced chowder-men of the Harlem Bi?er. 

Potatoes and crackers are used in different proportions^ 
the more used, the thicker the chowder will be. 

Put in a pot (technical name) some small slices of 
&t salt pork, enough to line the bottom of it ; on that, a 
layer of potatoes, cut in small pieces; on the potatoes, 
a layer of chopped onions; on the onions, a layer of 
tomatoes, in slices, or canned tomatoes ; on the latter a 
layer of clams, whole or chopped (they are generally 
chopped), then a layer of crackers. 

Then repeat the process, that is, another layer of pota- 
toes on that of the clams ; on this, one of onions, etc, 
till the pot is nearly fulL Every layer is seasoned with 
salt and pepper. Other spices are sometimes added ac- 
cording to taste ; such as thyme, cloves, bay-leaves, and 
tarragon. 

When the whole is in, cover with water, set on a slow 
fire, and when nearly done, stir gently, finish cooking, and 
serve. 

As we remarked above, the more potatoes that are 
used, the thicker it will be* 

When done, if found too thin, boil a little longer ; if 
found too thick, add a little water, give one boil, and 
serve. 

Another way, — ^Proceed as above in every particular, 
except that you omit the clams and crackers, and when 
the rest is nearly cooked, then add the chopped clams and 
broken crackers, boil fast about twenty-five minutes 
longer, and serve. 

If found too thick or too thin, proceed exactly as for 
the one above. 



FIBH. 161 

Msh Chowder, — ^Thia is made exactly as clam chow- 
der, using fish instead of clams. 

Clam Bake. — ^This is how it is made hy the Harlem 
River clam-baker, Tom Bilbt. 

Lay the clams on a rock, edge downward, and forming 
a circle, cover them with fine brash ; cover the brush with 
dry sage ; cover the sage with larger brash ; set the whole 
on fire, and when a little more than half barnt (brash 
and sage), look at the clams by pulling some out, and if 
done enough, brush the fire, cinders, etc., off; mix some 
tomato or cauliflower saace, or catsup, with the clams 
(minus their shells) ; add butter and spices to taste, and 
serve. 

Done on sand, the clams, in opening, naturally allow 
the sand to get in, and it is any thing but pleasant foi the 
teeth while eating them. 



BEEF. 



HOW TO SELECT. 

SsB if ihe meat is fine, of a clear red color, with yel- 
lowish-wliite fat 

COW BEEF. 
Cow beef most also be of a clear red color, but more 
pale than other beef; the fat is white. 

BULL BEEF. 

Bull beef is never good ; you recognize it when you 
see hard and yellow fat; the lean part is of a dirty-reddish 
color. 

The rump piece is generally prepared h la mode. 
For steaks, the tenderloin and the piece called the porter- 
house steak, are the best ; rump steaks are seldom tender. 

The roasting or baking pieces are the tenderloin, the 
fillet, and some cuts of the ribs. 

For soup, every piece is good ; to make rich broth, 
take pieces of the rump, sucket, round, etc., but every 
piece makes excellent broth, and therefore excellent soup. 
{See Bboth.) 

A good piece of rib, prepared like a fillet or tender- 
loin, makes an excellent dish, the bones and meat around 
them being used to make broth. 



BEEF. 163 

A LA MODE. 

Take from six to twelye poands of rninp and lard it. 
To lard it yoa take a steel needle made for tbat pnipose, 
fiat near the pointed end and mnch larger than ah ordinaiy 
larding-needle. It must be fiat near tbe point in order to 
cut the meat so as to make room for the iaiger part of the 
needle to pass, and also for the salt pork. This needle is 
only nsed for beef h la mode. 

Out the salt pork in square strips to fit the needle, 
{see LAKDura), and proceed. 

Examine the piece of beef, lard with the grain of tiie 
meat, so that when it is canred the salt pork shall be cat 
across. 

If the piece is too thick to mn the strip of pork 
through, so that both ends stick out^ lard one side first 
then the other. We mean by one side first, this : to be 
easily handled, the salt pork cannot be cut longer than 
about four inches ; as half an inch of it must stick out of 
the meat, it leaves only three inches inside, and if the 
piece of meat be six inches or more thick, of course it 
would be impossible to have the strip of pork stick out on 
both sides ; therefore, you lard one side first ; that is, you 
run the needle through the meat, leaving the salt pork 
stick out on the side you commence, and when that side 
is larded, do the same for the other. You have then the 
salt pork sticking out on both sides of the meat and look* 
ing just as if the strips were running through the whole 
piece. 

Some like more salt pork than others in the beef; the 
strips may be run thickly or thinly. 

Thirty strips may be run into three pounds of meat as 
well as half a dozen; but about half a pound of salt pork 
to five pounds of beef is a pretty good proportion. 



164 BSKF. 

Then take a sancepan of a proper size for the piece of 
meat ; it must not be too large or too small, but large 
enough to hold the meat withoat being obliged to bend 
or fold it ; a crockery pan is certainly the best for that 
purpose, and one that will go easily in the oven. 

Put in the sancepan, for six pounds of beef^ half a 
calf s foot, or a veal-bone if more handy, two ounces of 
butter, half a handful of parsley {cives, if handy), two 
bay-leaves, a clove of garlic, a sprig of thyme, two onions, 
with a clove stuck in each, salt, pepper, half a carrot cut in 
slices, the rind of the salt pork you have used, and what 
you may have left of strips ; the whole well spread on the 
bottom of the pan, then the piece of meat over, cover the 
pan, set on a rather sharp fire and after about ten minutes 
add half a gill of water; keep the pan covered to 
the end. 

After another ten or fifteen minutes, add about one 
pint of cold water, turn the meat over, and after about 
ten minutes more, place the pan in the oven, a rather slow 
oven (a little above 220 degrees Fahr.), for five or six 
hours. Dish the meat, skim off the fat on the top of the 
gravy, give one boil and turn it over the meat and carrots 
through a strainer. 

When the meat is dished, put some carrots au jtia all 
around ; serve warm. 

(7o^.— Serve it whole or in slices, with meat jelly, or 
with a sharp sauce ; such as piquante^ ravigote^ etc 

STEWED. 

Stewed beef is called also dauhe or braised beef, but it 
is the same. 

It may be larded as beef h la mode^ or not ; it may bo 
put whole in the pan or in large dice, according to taste. 



BEBar. 165 

Die following is for five or six pounds of ramp or 
eyen a piece of ribs : 

Pat in a sancepan two ounces of salt pork cnt in dice, 
four sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, two bay-leaves, a 
cloTe of garlic, a sprig of sweet basil, two cloves, three 
carrots cut in pieces, salt, and pepper ; put the piece of 
beef on the whole, wet with a glass of broth, and one of 
white wine (a liqnor^laBs of French brandy may also be 
added) ; season with six or eight small onions ; place in a 
moderately heated oven, put paste around the cover to 
keep it air-tight ; simmer about six hours ; dish the meat 
with the onions and carrots around it, strain the gravy ol 
the whole, and serve. 

Almost any piece of beef may be cooked in the same 
way, and will be found good, wholesome, and economical. 

ROASTED. 

ffow to improve it — Put the meat in a tureen, with 
four tablespoonfiils of sweet-oil, salt, pepper, two table- 
spoonfuls of chopped parsley, four onions cut in slices, 
two bay-leaves, and the juice of half a lemon ; put half 
of all the above under the meat, and half on it ; cover, 
and leave thus two days in winter, and about eighteen 
hours in summer. 

It certainly improves the meat and makes it more 
tender. The tenderloin may be improved as well as any 
other piece. 

Then place the meat on the spit before and near a 
very sharp fire. Baste often with the seasonings, if you 
have improved the meat ; or with a little melted butter, 
if you have not. Continue basting with what is in the 
dripping-pan. 

Beef must be placed as near the fire as possible, with- 



166 BEEF. 

out burning it, however ; and then, as soon as a coating 
or crust is formed all around, remove it by degrees. Re- 
member that the quicker the crust is formed, the more 
juicy and tender the meat. 

Nothing at all is added to form that kind of crust It 
is formed by the osmazome of the meat, attracted by the 
heat, and coming in contact with the air while revolving. 

Beef is more juicy when rather underdone ; if good, 
when cut, it has a pinky color inside. 

Boast beef may be served with the drippings only, 
after being strained and the &t removed. 

It may also be served in the following ways : 

With Potatoes. — ^Fried potatoes may be served all 
around the meat, or on a separate dish. Also, potato 
croquettes. 

With Horse-radish, — Grate horse-radish, mix it with 
the drippings, and serve in a boat 

With a Garniture. — Mix a liver garniture with the 
gravy, add lemon-juice, place all around the meat, and 
serve. 

With Truffles. — ^Place the garniture of truffles on and 
around the meat, turn the drippings on the whole, and 
serve. 

With Tomatoes. — Surround the meat with stuffed to- 
matoes, strain the gravy on the whole, and serve. 

On PurSes. — Spread either of the following ^r^e« on 
the dish, place the meat over it, strain the drippings on 
the whole, and serve : 

Puries of aspara^us^ beans, cauliflowers, celery, Lima 
beans, onions, green peas, potatoes, and mushrooms. 

With Cabbage. — Surround the meat with Bnit«elfl 
cabbages, prepared au jus ; strain the drippings on thn 
whole, and serve. 



167 

With Quenelles. — ^Place twelve quenelles of chicken 
around the meat, and serve with the drippings. 

TO DECORATE. 

When served in any way as described above, one or 
two or more skewers may be mn throngh craw-fish and a 
dice of tmffle, and stuck in the meat, or throngh sweet- 
breads aujus, and slices of truffles. It makes a beautiful 
and good decoration. 

The skewers may also be run through chicken-combs, 
prepared as for farce; first through a comb, then through 
a slice of truffle, through a sweetbread, again through a 
slice of truffle, then through a craw-fish, and lastly a slice 
of truffle, or the reverse, according to fancy. 

With Rice, — ^It is surrounded with rice croquettes, 
the drippings strained over the whole. 

We could put down some twenty or more other ways, 
but any one with an ordinary amount of natural capacity 
can do it, by varying the ffamitures, puries^deeorationSy etc. 

Cold roast-beef is prepared like boiled beef. 

BAKED. 

Place the meat in a bake-pan, with cold water about 
a quarter of an inch deep; spread salt, pepper, and a 
little butter on the meat, cover it with a piece of buttered 
paper; baste often over the paper, lest it should bum; 
keep the bottom of the pan covered with juice ; if the 
water and juice are absorbed, add a little cold water and 
continue basting ; turn over two or three times, but keep 
the paper on the top ; if it is burnt, put on another piece. 
The paper keeps the top of the meat moist, and prevents 
it ftom bfiming or drying. 

Wb^Q don^y it is served like roasted bee£ 



168 3BEF. 

FILLET. 

The tenderloin and even the sirloin are sometimes 
called, or rather known, nnder the name of fillet, when 
cooked. It comes from the French filet — ^tenderloin. 

Sirloin means snrloin; like stock and several others, 
sirloin is pnrelj English. The snrloin is t^e npper part 
of the loin, as its prefix indicates ; it is surlonge in French. 

A fillet is generally larded with salt pork by means of 
a small brass larding-needle ; the salt pork cut in strips 
to fit the needle {nee Labdiko). 

If yon use a tenderloin, trim off the iaX, If it is a 
piece of ribs, prepared fiUet-like, shape it like a fillet as 
near as possible ; the rest is used as directed above. 

A piece of ribs is certainly cheaper, and can be had at 
any time, while the other is as difficult to procure as it is 
dear. 

To lard it. — ^Have a towel in your left hand and place 
the meat over it, the most flat and smooth side up, holding 
it so that the npper part will present a somewhat convex 
surface, and commence larding at either end and finishing 
at the other, in this way : 

Bun the needle through the upper part of the convex 
surface, commencing at about a quarter of an inch firom 
the edge of one side, running through the meat a distance 
of about one inch and a hal^ about half an inch in depth 
at the middle, and the strip of salt pork sticking out at 
both ends ; that is, where the needle was introduced into 
the meat, and where it came out of it. Eepeat this till 
you have a row of strips across the meat, the strips being 
about one-third of an inch apart 

Lard row after row in the same way, and till the whole 
flat side is covered ; the ends of the strips of pork stickins^ 
out of each row being intermingled. 



BEEF. 169 

To cook it. — ^It may be roasted or baked exactly in 
tbe same way as directed above for roast and baked bee£ 
It may also be improved in the same way. 

When cooked in either of the two above ways, it is 
seiTcd with its gravy only, or — 

With Med potatoes. With tomatoes. 

With potato coquettes. With quenelles. 
With truffles. With Madeirarsauce. 

With green peas. 
The same as roast or baked beef above. It may also be 
decorated in the same way. 

A fillet is also cooked exactly like beef h la mode, with 
the exception that it does not require as long ; for a large 
one, it requires only about three hours. 

When cooked thus, it is served with its gravy strained, 
and decorated with skewers, as above. 

With Macaroni. — ^While the fillet is cooking, prepare 
a pound of macaroni aujuSy and serve the fillet on the 
macaroni spread on a dish ; the gravy of the fillet being 
mixed with the macaroni when both are done. 

Mllet a la BriMat-Savarin, — ^Cook it in a pan as 
above, and serve it decorated with sweetbreads and slices 
of truffles, as described for roast-beef, and with a Cham- 
pagne-sauce. 

A la Chateaubriand. — ^This is prepared and served like 
the preceding one, with a Madeira instead of a Champagne 
sauce. 

Saute. — ^When cooked in a pan as directed above, 
cook mushrooms about ten minutes in the gravy, and 
serve mushrooms and gravy all around the meat. 

A fillet saute is always made with a tenderloin. 

As is seen by the above receipts, all the good pieces 
of beef may be prepared in the ways described, ribs as 
8 



170 BEEF. 

well as other pieces, and from the plainest to the most 
recherche yR2i,j, from the cheapest to the most costly 
manner. 

Several names are given to the different ways we have 
described, such as fillet finandere (fillet served with a 
ragout of chicken-combs), fillet Bichelieu (fillet with half 
a dozen skewers), etc. 

En Bellevtie, — ^This is the best way to serve it cold. 
It may be served whole, or part of it, that is, what is left 
from the preceding dinner. For a supper or lunch, it is 
the most handy dish, as it can be prepared in advance. 
Make some meat jelly or calf Vfoot jelly, put a thickness 
of about three-quarters of an inch of it in a tin dish or 
mould, large enough to hold the fillet ; then place on ice 
to cool, and when congealed and firm enough, place the 
fillet on it, the larded side downward ; fill now with jelly 
till the fillet is covered, and have a thickness of about 
three-quarters of an inch above it 

The fillet must not touch the sides of the mould, but 
be perfectly enveloped in jelly. K the thickness of jelly is 
even on both sides and all around, it is much more sightly. 
When the jelly is perfectly congealed and firm, place a 
dish over the mould, turn upside down, and remove it 
Serve as it is. 

As a tenderloin is very expensive and rather difficult 
to get, buy a fine piece of ribs, cut the fleshy part of the 
shape of a tenderloin, and prepare it as directed above ; it 
makes an excellent and sightly dish. The bony part with 
the rest of the flesh is used to make broth. 

RIBa 

With Vinegar, — Put two tablespoonfuls of &t in a 
saucepan, and set it on the fijre; when melted, put the 



BEEF* 171 

beef Id ; say a piece of three poands, from the round, 
romp, or rib-piece ; brown it on every side ; add one gill 
of vinegar, salt, and a teaspoonfdl of pepper, cover the 
pan, and keep on a rather sharp fire for fifteen minutes ; 
then add one carrot and one onion, both sliced, a stalk of 
thyme, three cloves, two bay-leaves, and six pepperKJoms, 
a pint of broth, and same of water ; boil gently till done ; 
dish the meat, strain the sauce over it, and serve. 

Ribs may also be broiled like steaks, and served either 
with a maitre iThdtelj mushrooms, potatoes, or water- 
cress. The low cuts of beef are generally used to make 
broth, or stewed. 

STEAKS. 

The best piece of beef for a steak is the tenderloin. 

What is called a porter-house steak is the tenderloin, 
sirloin, and other surrounding parts cut in slices. 

A steak should never be less than three-quarters of an 
inch in thickness. 

It should always be broiled ; it is inferior in taste and 
flavor when cooked in a pan (saute), or other utensil, but 
many persons cook it so, not having the necessary fire or 
utensil to broil ; broiled or sautS, it is served alike. 

The same rules are applied to steaks of venison, pork, 
etc. ; turtle-steaks are also prepared like beef-steaks. 

A good steak does not need any pounding; the object 
of pounding a steak is to break its fibres. A pounded 
steak may appear or taste more tender to a person not 
knowing or never having tasted a good steak, but an ex* 
perienced palate cannot be deceived. 

It is better to broil before than over the fire. {Se^ 
Bboilxng.) 

To cook a steak in an oven or drum, or any other 



172 BEEF. 

badlj-inyented machine or contrivance, is not to broil it, 
but to spoil it. 

To make tender, — When cut, trimmed, salted, and 
peppered, put them in a bowl, and sprinUe some sweet- 
oil or melted butter over them ; turn them over in the 
bowl every two or three hours for from six to twelve 
hours. 

To cut arid prepare. — ^Cut the meat in round or oval 
slices, as even as possible, of any size, about one inch in 
thickness, and trim off the fibres and thin skin that may 
be around Do not cut off the &t, but flatten a little each 
slice with a chopper. 

To broil. — ^When the steaks are cut and prepared as 
directed, they are slightly greased on both sides with lard 
or butter (if they have not been in a bowl with oil or 
butter before cooking them), placed on a warmed gridiron, 
set before or on a sharp fire, turned over once or twice, 
and taken off when rather underdone. Salt and pepper 
them, dish, spread a maitre d*hdtel over them, and serve 
very warm« 

Cooks and epicures differ about the turning over of 
steaks; also about broDing them with or without salt; 
some say that they must not be turned over twice, others 
are of opinion that they must be turned over two or three, 
and even more times; some say that they must be salted 
and peppered before broiling, others say they must not ; 
we have tried the two ways many times, and did not find 
any difference ; if there is any difference at all, it is in the 
quality of the meat, or in the person's taste, or in the 
cook's care. 

When the steak is served as above, place some fried 
potatoes all around, and serve hot Instead of fried potar 
toes, put some water-cress all around, add a few drops 



BEEF. 173 

of megar, and serve. The water-cress is to be pat on 
raw and cold. 

When the steak is dished, spread some anchoyy-butter 
on it instead of a maitre cPhdtel, and serve warm also. It 
may also be served with lobster-butter instead of a maitre 
tPhoteL Steaks are also served with horse-radish butter, 
and surrounded with fried or souffle potatoes. 

With a Tomato-Sauce, — ^Broil and serve the steak as 
directed above, and serve it with a tomato-sauce instead 
of a maitre cPhdtel. 

With a Poivrade or Piquante Sauce, — ^Broil and serve 
with a poivrade or piquante sauce, instead of a maitre 
tPhdtel. 

With Egg, — ^When the steaks are cut and prepared as 
directed, dip them in beaten e^, roU them in bread-crumbs, 
then broil, and serve them with either a maitre cThStel or 
tomato-sauce, or with potatoes, etc. 

With Truffles, — Set a saucepan on the fire with one 
ounce of butter in it ; as soon as melted add half a table- 
spoonful of flour, stir, and, when turning brown, add also 
about a gill of broth; stir again for five or sis minutes, 
when mix three or four tablespoonfuls of good gravy with 
the rest ; boil gently ten minutes, take from the fire ; slice 
two or three truffles, mix them with the rest ; add salt and 
pepper to taste ; give one boil, turn over the steak which 
you have broiled as directed, and serve. 

With Mushrooms, — ^Proceed as for truffles in every 
particular, except that you use mushrooms. 

Pancg Steak, — Cut the steak two or three inches 
thick, butter slightly both sides, lay it on a gridiron well 
greased and warmed ; set it on a moderate fire and broil 
it well ; to cook it through it must be turned over many 
times, on account of its thickness. Serve like anothei 



■tealc, vitb a maitrf ^httel, poivrade, potatoes, or v^bw 
cress, ete. 

BOILED BEEF. 
This is noderatood to be beef that has been nsed to 
main brotli — a rump-piece or a rib-piece, boned and tied 
with twine before cooking it. 



BSEF. 175 

With Carrots and Turnips, — ^Remove the twine, and 
place tlie piece of beef on the middle of a dish, with car- 
rots and turnips, cut with a fruitK^orer, prepared au jus or 
glassed, and arranged all around it ; also, some skewers run 
through pieces of carrot and turnip, and then stuck in the 
piece of beet (See cut p. 174.) Serve warm. 

With Brussels Cabbage^ or Sprouts. — Serve the beef 
as above, surrounded with sprouts au jus^ and also orna- 
mented with skewers run through sprouts, with a piece of 
turnip between each. 

In Bourgeoise. — Serve the piece of beef warm, deco- 
rated if handy, and surrounded with Med potatoes cut 
with a vegetable spoon or in fillets, and gravy spread over 
the whole. 

If not decorated, a few sprigs of parsley may be spread 
on the bee£ 

With Onions, — Serve the beef as above, and surround 
it with glazed onions. 

With Celery, — ^When served as above, the meat is sm> 
rounded with a puree of celery. 

With CauliJlowersj'-^eTVQ warm, with a garniture of 
cauliflowers aU around. It may be decorated with 
skewers. 

With Chestnuts,^^hzQ chestnuts as for dessert ; run 
the skewers through a chestnut first, then through a fried 
potato, and then through a slice of carrot, and stick one 
at each end of the piece of beef; put chestnuts all around, 
spread some gravy over the whole, and serve warm. 

Jn Croquettes, — ^Proceed as for croquettes of chicken. 

JSollandaise, — Cut the meat in fillets and put it in a 
saucepan, with about two ounces of fat or butter to a 
pound of meat; set on the fire and stir for ten minutes. 
Then add a tablespoonful of floor and stir about one roin* 



176 BICXF. 

ate, witb warm water enough to half cover the meat, and 
boil about five minutes, stirring now and then. 

Mix together in a bowl two yolks of eggs, the juice of 
half a lemon, and two or three tablespoonfuls of the sauce 
Irom the saucepan in which the beef is ; turn the mixture 
into the saucepan, stir and mix, add salt and pepper to 
taste, give one boil, and serve warm. 

broiled, — Cut the meat in slices about one inch in 
thickness, broil, and serve like steaks. 

Au Qratin, — Put two ounces of butter in a saucepan 
on the fire, and when melted sprinkle into it two table- 
spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, two or three mushrooms 
chopped, a teaspoonful of chopped onions, same of pars- 
ley, a pinch of allspice, salt, and pepper ; stir for about two 
minutes, add a little broth to make the whole rather liquid. 
Cut one pound of boiled beef in slices, place them in a 
tin or silver dish, turn the mixture over them, dust with 
bread-crumbs ; put half a dozen pieces of butter here and 
there on the top, and bake for about fifteen minutes. 

Take from the oven when done, add a few drops of 
lemon juice aU over, and serve warm in the dish in which 
it was baked. 

With a maitre (Thotel, piquantCy Mayonnaise^ Robert^ 
ravigote^ Tartar^ or tomato sauce. 

Cut it in slices, place them on a dish, spread on them 
some chopped parsley and slices of pickled cucumbers, 
and send thus to the table, with either of the above sauces 
in a saucer to be used with it. 

IN MIROTON. 

Put a piece of butter the size of an egg in a stewpan 
(this is for about two pounds), and set it on the fire ; when 
melted, put in it four middling-sized onions, cut in slices * 



when nearly cooked, spriiiMe on them a pincli of floury 
and stir till it takes a golden color; then add half a glass 
of white wLae, and as mnch of broth, also salt, pepper, 
and a little grated nutmeg ; boil until well cooked, and till 
the sauce is reduced ; then add the boiled beei^ cut in 
slices, and leave it fifteen minutes ; dish it, pour on a few 
drops of vinegar, and serve. 

Mashed. — ^Proceed exactly as for mirotony except that 
the beef is cut in strips or chopped, and that no wine is 
used. 

IN SALAD. 

Cut it in very thin and short slices, and place them on 
a dish with chopped parsley ; put in a saucer sweet-oil and 
vinegar, according to the quantity of beef you have, two 
tablespoonfuls of oil to one of vinegar, salt, pepper, and 
some mustard ; beat the whole a little, pour on the slices, 
and serve. 

GORN£D BEEF. 

Corned beef is generally boiled. Soak the corned 
beef in cold water for some time, according to how salt 
it is. 

Set it on the fire, covered with cold water, and boil 
gently till done. 

With Cabbage, — ^Blanch the cabbage for about five 
minutes, and drain. Then put it to cook with the corned 
beef when the latter is about half done; serve both on 
the same dish, or separately, according to taste. 

Corned beef, when boiled as above, without cabbage, 
can be served and decorated, in every way, like boiled 
bee£ It certainly makes sightly as well as good dishes 
for a family dinner. 

A piece of corned beef^ surrounded with a garniture 
8* 



178 B£EF. 

as we have described above, decorated witli skewers, is 
very often served as a relevS at an extra dinner. 

Cold Corned Beef.'^A. whole piece, or part of it, may 
be served en Belleime, the same as a fillet en BeUevrte ; it 
is also excellent. 

TONGUE. 

Clean and blanch it for aboat ten minutes — till the 
white skin can be easily removed. After ten minutes boil- 
ing, try if it comes off; if not, boil a little longer, then 
skin it welL 

To boil, — ^When skinned, put it in your soup-kettle 
with the bee( etc., to make broth, and leave it till done. 
When boiled, the tongue may be served and decorated 
exactly the same as boiled beef, in every way. 

Stewed, — Cut square fillets of bacon, which dredge in 
a mixture of chopped parsley, cives, salt, pepper, and a 
little allspice ; lard the tongue with the fillets. Put in a 
crockery stewpan two ounces of bacon cut in dice, four 
sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, one of sweet basil, 
two bay-leaves, a clove of garlic, two cloves, two carrots 
cut in pieces, four small onions, salt, and pepper ; lay the 
tongue on the whole, wet with half a glass of white wine 
and a glass of broth ; set on a moderate fire, and simmer 
about five hours— keep it well covered; then put the 
tongue on a dish, strain the sauce on it, and serve. It is 
a delicious dish. 

It may also be served with vegetables around, or with 
tomato-sauce. 

Another way, — ^When prepared as above directed, put 
it on the fire with the same seasonings as the preceding 
one ; simmer four hours and take from the fire ; put the 
tongue on a dish and let it cool, then place it on the spit 



BEEF. 179 

before a good fire, and finish the cooHog; serre it warm 
with an oil, or piquante sauce. 

If any is left of either of the two, put in a pan the 
next day, wet with a little broth, set on the fire, and when 
warm serve it on &purSe; do not allow it to boil. 

BRAIN. 

Soak it in lukewarm water and clean well, so aa to 
have it free from blood, fibres, and thin skin ; then soak 
it again in cold water for twelve hours in winter and six 
in summer. Put in a crockery stewpan one ounce of ba- 
con cut in slices, one carrot cut in pieces, two sprigs of 
parsley, one of thyme, a bay-leaf, a clove, four small onions 
cut in slices, a teaspoonful of chopped cives, salt, pepper, a 
pint of white wine, as much of broth, and then the brain ; 
set on a moderate fire for half an hour and take it off; 
dish the brain and place it in a warm place ; then strain 
the sauce, put it back on the fire with the brain in it, add 
two or three mushrooms cut in pieces, leave on the fire 
from ten to fifteen minut<es, and serve it, parted in two, 
with fried parsley around. 

Another i^ay.-^When the brain is cleaned and pre- 
pared as above, cut it in eight pieces. Mix well together 
a little flour, chopped parsley and cives, also a pinch of 
allspice ; roll the pieces of brain in it, so as to allow the 
mixture to adhere to them ; have some butter in a frying- 
pan on the fire, and when hot put the pieces of brain in 
t ; fry geotly, and serve with fried parsley around. 

HEART. 

Soak it in lukewarm water for two hours, free it from 
blood and skin, drain and wipe dry ; then stuff it with 
sausage-meat, to which you have added three or four onions 



180 BEEF. 

chopped fine, pat it in a rather quick oven, or on the spit 
before a good fire (if on the spit, envelop it \?ith battered 
paper), basting from time to time ; it takes about an hour 
and a half to cook a middling-sized one ; serve it with 
a vinaigrette, piquante^ paivrade, or ravigote sauce. 

It may also be fried with butter, and cut in slices, lul 
it is not as good as in the above way ; it generally becomes 
hard m frying. 

KIDNEYS. 

First split the kidneys in four pieces, trim off as care- 
fully as possible the sinews and fat that are inside, then 
cut in small pieces. 

Sauti. — ^The quicker this is done the better the kidney. 
For a whole one put about two ounces of butter in a fry- 
ing-pan and set it on a very sharp fire, toss it round so as 
to melt the butter as fast as possible, but without allowing 
it to blacken ; as soon as melted, turn the cut kidney in, 
stir now and then with a wooden spoon for about three 
minutes, then add a tablespoonfril of flour, stir again the 
same as before for about one minute, when add a gill of 
white wine and about one of broth ; stir again now and 
then tDl the kidney is rather underdone, and serve im- 
mediately. 

If the kidney is allowed to boil till perfectly done, it 
will very seldom be tender. 

It may be done with water instead of wine and broth ; 
in thiat case, add a few drops of lemon-juice just before 
serving it. 

Prepare and serve it also as calf s-kidney, in every way 
as directed for the same. 

LIVER. 

Cut the liver in slices a quarter of an inch in thick- 
ness, sprinkle on them salt and pepper, place them on a 



BEEF. 181 

gridiron, and set on a sharp fire ; torn over only once, and 
serve rather underdone, with butter and chopped parsley, 
kneaded together and spread between the slices. 

A few drops of lemon-juice may be added. 

Another way, — ^When the liver is cut in slices, as 
above, put a piece of butter in a frying-pan on the fire, 
and when melted, lay the slices in ; turn over only once, 
then serve, with salt, pepper, vinegar, and chopped 
parsley. 

TAIL. 

Cut the tan at the joint, so as to make as many pieces 
as there are joints ; throw the pieces in boiling water for 
fifteen minutes, and drain them. When cold and dry, 
put them in a saucepan with a bay-leaf, two onions, with 
a cloye stuck in each, two sprigs of parsley, and one of 
thyme, a clove of garlic, salt, pepper, half a wine-glass of 
white wine, and a few thin slices of salt pork ; cover with 
broth or water, and set on a moderate fire for two hours. 
Dish the pieces, strain the sauce on them, and serve with 
a garniture of cabbage, or with any puree. 

TRIPE. 

Hmo to dean and prepare. — Scrape and wash it well 
several times in boiling water, changing the water every 
time, then put in very cold water for about twelve hours, 
changing the water two or three times ; place it in a pan, 
cover it with cold water; season with parsley, cives. 
onions, one or two cloves of garlic, cloves, salt, and pep 
per ; boil gently five hours, take out and drain. 

In case the water should boil away, add more. 

You may save all the trouble of cleaning and prepar- 
ing, by buying it ready prepared, as it is generally sold 
in cities. 



1 



L82 BEEF, 

Broiled. — ^When prepared, dip it in lukewarm batter, 
roll in bread*crambs, place on a gridiron, and set it on a 
moderate fire ; turn over as many times as is necessary to 
broil it well, and serve with a virudgrette^ piqtiante, or 
Tartar sauce ; also with a tomato-^auce. 

Stewed, — ^Put in a stewpan two ounces of salt pork, 
cut in dice, three carrots cut in slices, eight small onions, 
four cloves, two bay-leaves, two cloves of garlic, a piece 
of nutmeg, four sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, a dozen 
stalks of cives, six pepper-corns, the fourth part of an ox- 
foot cut in four pieces, salt, pepper, about two ounces of 
ham cut in dice, then three pounds of double tripe on the 
whole ; spread two ounces of hi bacon cut in thin slices 
on the top ; wet with half white wine and half water, or 
water only if you choose ; put the cover on, and if not 
air-tight, put some paste around ; set in a slow pven for six 
hours, then take the tripe out, strain the sauce, skim off 
the fat when cool, then put the sauce and tripe again in 
your pan, warm well, and serve in crockery plates or 
bowls placed on chafing-dishes, as it is necessary to keep 
it warm while eating. It is good with water only, but bet- 
ter with half wine. This is also called h la mode de Caen. 

In Foulette, — ^When cleaned and prepared as direct- 
ed, cut one pound of tripe in strips about one and a half 
inches broad, then cut again contrariwise, so as to make 
small fillets. Put one ounce of butter in a saucepan with 
half a tablespoonful of flour, and mix cold ; add two gills 
of water, mix again, set on the fire, stir now and then, give 
one boil, put the tripe in, salt and pepper to taste ; boil 
two minutes and dish the whole; put a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley all over, and serve hot 

Aux Fines Herhea. — ^Broil the tripe, and serve it wiib 
sauce fines herbes. 



BEEF. 183 

Tripe may be bought pickled ; it is then served at 
breakfast and lunch. 

SMOKED BEEF'S TONGUE. 

Soak the smoked tongue in cold water for at least three 
hours, change the water once or twice during the process. 
Then take off the thin skin or strip around if there is 
any ; put the tongue in a saucepan with two sprigs of 
thyme, two of pwrsley, a bay-lea^ two cloves, six small 
onions, and a clove of garlic ; fill the pan with cold water, 
and let simmer about six hours. If the water is boiling 
away, add more. Take from the fire, let cool as it is, then 
take it out of the water ; clean it, let dry, and serve it 
when cold. 

Cut the tongue, when prepared as above, either in 
slices or in strips, and use for sandwiches, or serve it 
whole, with a cucumber, ptquante^ poivrade^ or tomato 
sauce, at breakfast or lunch. It may also be served in 
vinaigrette. 

When prepared as directed above, serve it as a fillet 
of beef en Bellevue^ for supper, lunch, or breakfast. It 
makes a fine and delicious dish. 

It is used also to stuff boned turkeys and other birds, 
as directed in those receipts ; always boil it as directed 
above, before using it. 

When served with any of the above sauces, it may be 
decorated with skewers the same as boiled bee£ 

Larded, — When boiled, lard it with salt pork, and 
bake it for about one hour in a moderately heated oven, 
and serve it with the same sauces as above. 

Out in slices and served with parsley, it is a hor9< 
i'ceuvre. 



MUTTON 



HOW TO SELECT. 

Tou may be sure that mutton is good when the 
flesh is rather black, and the fat white ; if the fat breaks 
easily, it is young. 

The wether is much superior to the ewe. 

You will know if a leg of mutton comes from a 
wether, if there is a large and hard piece of fiat on one 
side at the larger and upper end; if from a ewe, that part 
is merely a kind of skin, with a little fat on it. 

ROASTED. 

A piece of mutton to roast must not be too fresh, it is 
much more tender when the meat is rather seasoned, but 
not tainted, or what is sometimes called " high." When 
on the spit, place it near the fire, baste immediately with 
a little melted butter, and then with the drippings. As 
soon as you notice that a kind of crust or coating has 
formed around the piece of meat, remove it a little from 
the fire by degrees ; and continue basting till done. The 
quicker the crust is formed, though without burning the 
meat, the more juicy and tender it will be. 

Boast mutton, like roast beef, is better served rather 
underdone, but should be a little more done than bee£ 
When properly roasted, the meat, whatever piece it may be, 



nmoN. 185 

either a loin or saddle, a leg, shoulder, or a breast, may be 
served with its gravy only ; that is, with what is in the 
dripping-pan after having removed all the &t, also on a 
wubise or on a purh of sorrel. The above pieces may 
also be served in the following ways : 

With Potatoes, — ^When dished, snrronnd the meat 
with potatoes, either fried, mashed, or in croquettes. 

With Quenelles, — ^Diah the meat, place half a dozen 
quenelles aronnd it, and decorate it with skewers which 
you have rnn throngh a quenelle and then through a craw- 
fish and stnck in the meat. 

With Carrots. — When dished, put all around the 
meat carrots au jus, or glazed and cut with a vegetable 
spoon. 

With Spinach, — Spinach au jus when done is spread 
on the dish, the meat is put on it, and served warm. Do 
the same with a puree of cauliflowers, 

BAKED. 

AU the above pieces are baked as well as roasted; 
and when done, served exactly in the same and every 
way as when roasted. 

Put the meat in a baking-pan with a little butter spread 
over it ; cover the bottom of the pan with cold water, 
then put in a quick oven. After it has been iu the oven 
for about fifteen minutes, baste and place a piece of but- 
tered paper on the top of the meat. If the bottom of 
the pan is getting dry, add a little more water, but it is 
seldom the case except with inferior meat When you 
see rather too much fat in the pair, take from the oven, 
turn the fat off, put cold water instead, and put back in 
the oven to finish the cooking. If the paper bums, put 



186 MUTTON. 

on another piece ; but by basting often over the paper, it 
will remain pretty long before burning. 

With a small knife or a skewer you ascertain when 
done enough or to your liking ; never cook by guess or 
by hearsay; the oven may be quicker one day than 
another, or slower; the meat may be more tender, or 
more hard ; remember that if you cook by guess (we 
mean, to put down, as a matter of course, that it takes so 
many hours, or so many minutes, to bake this or that), and 
stick to it, you will fail nine times out of ten. When 
done, serve as directed above. 

In Croquettes. — ^Make and serve as chicken croquettes. 
In Haricot or Bagout. — Take a neck or breast piece 
of mutton, which cut in pieces about two inches long and 
one broad. Put them in a saucepan (say three pounds) 
with two ounces of butter, set on the fire and stir occa- 
sionally till turning rather brown, then add a tablespoon* 
fill of flour, stir for one minute, cover with cold water, 
add one onion whole, salt, a bunch of seasonings com- 
posed of four sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a bay-leaf^ 
and a clove, one clove of garlic, chopped fine. Boil 
gently till about two-thirds done, stirring now and then ; 
add potatoes, peeled, quartered, and cut, as £ur as pos- 
sible, of the shape of a carpel of orange. The proportion 
is, about as many pieces of potatoes as of meat Boil 
again gently till done, place the pieces of meat in the 
middle of the dish, the potatoes around, the juice or sauce 
over the wbole, and serve. Skim off the fat, if any, be* 
fore turning the sauce over the rest. 

BREAST BOILED. 

Put the breast entire in a saucepan, with a sprig of 
thyme, two of parsley, a bay-leaf, a clove, salt, and pep* 



MUTTON. 187 

per, cover with water, set on tbe ifire, boil gently till 
cooked, and then drain. Put in a frying-pan three table- 
spoonfuls of sweet-oil, a teaspoonfbl of chopped parsley, 
salt, and pepper ; when hot lay the breast in and fry it all 
aronnd for five minutes ; then take it off, roll it in bread- 
crumbs, place it on a gridiron, and set on a good fire for 
&YQ minutes ; turn it over once only, then serve it with a 
piquantej paivrade, or tomato sauce. It may also be 
served on a purSe of sorrel. 

KECK BBOILED. 

Prepare and serve exactly the same as a breast broiled. 

A breast or a neck piece broiled may be served on a 
toufnse. It may also be served with a maitre cPhdtel or 
mushroom sauce, also with a piquante or any other sharp 
sauce. 

CHOPS. 

BroUed. — ^Trim and flatten the chops with a chopper, 
sprinkle salt and pepper on both sides, dip them in melted 
butter, place them on a gridiron, and set on a sharp fire, tarn 
over two or three times to broil properly, and when done, 
serve them around a dish, one lapping over the other, 
etc., and serve with the gravy. It takes about twelve 
minutes to cook with a good fire. 

Another way. — ^When trimmed and flattened, dip them 
in beaten egg^ roll them in bread-crumbs and broil, either 
as they are, or enveloped in buttered paper, and serve 
them with a maitre cPhdtel sauce. 

Sautis. — ^When trimmed and flattened, fry them 
with a little butter on both sides ; then take the chops 
from the pan and put them in a warm place. Leave in 
the pan only a tablespoonfiil of fat, add to it three times 
as much broth^ a teaspoonful of parsley and green onions, 



188 MUTTOK. 

two shallots, two pickled cucumbers, all chopped fine, and 
a pinch of allspice ; giro one boil, poor the whole on the 
chops, also the juice of half a lemon, and serve. 

The samCy with Vegetables. — Put in a frying-pan a 
piece of butter the size of two walnuts for four chops, set 
on a good fire, and when hot lav the chops in, after hav* 
ing flattened them with a chopper, and having sprinkled 
salt and pepper on both sides ; add a clove, and a teaspoon- 
ful of chopped parsley and green onions ; leave thus five 
minutes, turn over once or twice ; then add also half a 
wine-glass of broth, same of white wine, and finish the 
cooking. Take the chops off the pan and put them in a 
warm place. Boil the sauce in the pan ten minutes, turn 
it on the chops, put a garniture of vegetables around, and 
serve. Throw away the clove just before serving. 

Another way. — Have a piece of butter the size of an 
egg for eight chops in a crockery vessel, and set it on a 
good fire ; when melted take from the fire, lay the chops 
in, after having flattened them ; then cover them with a 
E^eet of buttered paper ; place the vessel in a rather hot 
oven, and when cooked serve them on a maitre cThdtel^ 
provenpaUj or tomato sauce. They may also be served on 
a paHe of sorrel, or one of potatoes. 

The same^ in Papillote. — ^Cut the chops rather thin, 
beat them gently and flatten them ; then proceed as for 
veal cutlets in papillotes in every particular. 

J^ewanci^e.— Broil the chops, either with or without 
egg and crumbs, and serve them with a Jinanciere garni- 
ture. 

Soubise. — ^The chops are either broiled or fried ; either 
broiled only dipped in lukewarm butter or in beaten egg 
and crumbs and then served on a aouhiee. A little lemon- 
jnioe may be added when they are on the dish. 



MUTTON. 189 

Jardimhre. — Cut two carrots and two turnips with a 
vegetable spoon and set on tlie fire with cold water and 
salt ; boil gently till tender, and drain. Boil also in the 
same way, in another pan and till tender, two tablespoon- 
fiils of green peas, or string-beans cut in pieces, and drain 
also. Then put carrots, turnips, peas, or beans, back on 
the fire, in the same pan with a little gravy and broth, 
enough to cover them, salt, and pepper ; boil gently five 
minutes; then put the chops in after being Med as 
directed below ; boil another five minutes ; tale from the 
fire, place the chops around the dish, one lapping over the 
other, and so that an empty place is left in the middle ; 
turn the carrots, turnips, and peas, with the sauce in that 
empty place, and serve. Salt and pepper the chops on 
both sides ; fry them in a little butter till about three- 
quarters done ; then take off and put with the vegetables 
as directed above. They may be broiled instead of fried, 
which is better. 

A la Princesse, — ^Trim the chops as usual and salt and 
pepper both sides. Chop very fine a piece of lean veal 
about half a pound for six or eight chops, according to 
size, then pound it and mix it with half a teaspoonfiil of 
flour, a pinch of nutmeg, salt, pepper, a yolk of egg, two 
tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs and one ounce of butter. 
1£ too firm the bntter must be melted so as to mix better. 
Put the mixture in a saucepan, set on a good fire, stir for 
ten minutes, and take off. Then grease the paste-board 
slightly with butter, put a teaspoonful of the mixture here 
and there on it, roll and make small balls of it, drop them 
in boiling broth or water, boiling about fifteen minutes, 
and take off with a skimmer. Dip the chops in melted 
bntter, then in beaten eggs, and roll in bread-crumbs ; fry 
them with a little batter. Fry the balls also. Place the 



190 innroN. 

cbops on the dish, the bones toward the edge, and the 
balls between the chops ; serve warm. A few balls may 
be placed in the middle. 

With Mushrooms, — ^Broil and serve them with a purSe 
of mnshrooms, or with a mnshroom garniture. 

Mutton chops, broiled, may be served with every land 
of bntter, every garniture, and every sauce, according to 
taste ; they may also be served with every purSe. 

A French cook once said he could serve mutton chops 
in three hundred ways, apples in two hundred ways, and 
iffffs in four hundred ways. The culinary science and art 
is advanced enough to-day to double the above figures, 
and have plenty to spare. 

LEG. 

Besides being prepared as directed for roast mutton, a 
leg of mutton, roasted or baked, may be served in the 
following ways : 

Boil white beans and drain them as directed, then put 
them on the fire with the drippings of the leg of mutton 
for ten minutes, stirring now and then, and serve them with 
it. They may also be kept in the dripping-pan for ten 
minutes, when boiled and drained, before the leg is done. 
Tf the leg of mutton is baked, set them on the fire for 
about ten minutes, with the gravy, stirring occasionally. 
Serve either on the same or on a separate dish. 

With Currant Jelly, — ^Roast or bake the leg of mut- 
ton, and serve it with currant jelly or with a purSe, 

Provenfale, — ^With a sharp-pointed knife, make a small 
cut in the leg of mutton here and there, and large enough 
to stick into the cut a clove of garlic Make as many cuts 
as yon please, from six to twenty, according to taste, and 
b each cut stick a clove of garlic. When prepared thus, 



HunoK. 191 

roast or bake, and serve it with either of the following 
sances: piquante^ poivradef ravigote^ rSmolade^ Robert, 
shallot, Tartar, tomato, and in vinaigrette. 

Decorated. — ^A leg of mutton may be decorated the 
same as a fillet of bee€ 

Stewed. — ^Take the large bone out, leaving the bone at 
the smaller end as a handle ; cat off also the bone below 
the knackle, and fix it with skewers ; then put it in a stew- 
pan with a pinch of allspice, four onions, two cloves, two 
carrots cut in four pieces each, a small bunch of parsley, 
two bay-leaves, three sprigs of thyme, salt, pepper, two 
ounces of bacon cut in slices, a quarter of a pint of broth, 
and water enough just to cover it ; set on a good fire, and 
after one hour of boiling add a liquor-glass of French 
brandy. Let simmer then for about five hours, in all about 
SIX hours ; then dish it, strain the sauce on it, and serve. 

We would advise those who have never tasted of a leg 
of mutton cooked as above, to try it. 

It may be served also with white beans cooked in wa- 
ter and fried in butter, or on fried potatoes. 

The next day. — ^If you have a piece left for the next 
day, cut it in thin slices after dinner, place the slices on a 
dish, with parsley under, in the middle, and above, and 
keep in a cold place. 

A while before dinner you put in a stewpan a piece of 
butter (the quantity to be according to the quantity of 
meat), and set it on a good fire ; when melted, sprinkle in, 
gradually, a little flour, stirring with a wooden spoon ; when 
of a proper thickness, and of a brownish color, add a glass 
of broth, salt, pepper, a few pickled cucumbers cut in slices, 
and two or three mushrooms ; boil ten minutes ; lay the 
slices of meat in, subdue the fire, simnaer twenty minutes, 
and serve. 



192 MUTTON. 

The samSj in another f(^ay.-^hop fine the slices of leg 
of mntton, put a piece of bntter in a stewpan, and set it 
on the fixe ; when melted, place the chopped meat in, keep 
stirring with a wooden spoon for abont ten minutes ; then 
add two or three tablespoonfdls of broth, salt, pepper, and 
a pinch of allspice ; simmer fifteen minutes, and serve with 
fried eggs all around the dish. 

Boiled, — Set a saucepan on the fire with cold water 
enough to cover the leg of mutton, add salt; at the first 
boil put the leg of mutton in, wrapped up in a toweL 
Boil gently till done. For a middling-sized one, it takes 
about two hours. Remove the towel, dish the leg of mut- 
ton, spread a caper-sauce over it, and serve hot The 
sauce may also be served in a boat or saucer. 

Cold. — ^What is left of it may be prepared like cold 
mutton in vinaigrette* 

SHOULDER. 

Shoulder boned, — Split the shoulder just in the middle, 
on the inside, lengthwise and following the middle of the 
bones ; remove the flat bone at the larger end first. This 
is easily done by scraping the meat off the bone on both 
sides, and then pulling it ofL Do the same with the remsun* 
ing bone. Spread the shoulder open on the table, the 
inside up, salt and pepper it, then spread on it the same 
stuffing as for a chicken stuffed with sausage-meat. Boll 
the shoulder round, tie it with twine, and roast or bake it. 
When roasted or baked, serve with the gravy. 

On a Puree, — Bone and roll the shoulder as above 
directed, but do not stuff it ; roast or bake it, and serve it 
on a purie of potatoes, beans, peas, lentils, or any other 
vegetable ; place the shoulder in the middle of a cUsh, cut 
it in slices, and place them all around the purSe, one lap- 



MUTTOK. 198 

Ding over the other ; turn the gravy over the whole through 
a strainer, and serve hot. 

With a 5aM<^.— "When baked or roasted as above, 
with or without stuflSng, serve it with a piquante, ravigote^ 
or Bohert sauce. 

Boiled. — ^Boil, and serve it with a caper-sauce, the 
8ame as the leg. 

SADDLE. 

Prepare, cook, and serve the saddle in the same way 
as the leg — ^roasted or baked, warm or cold. 

COLD MUTTON. 

Served cold, h la Vinaigrette, — ^A shoulder of mutton, 
roasted or baked, after being boned, makes a handsome 
dish served cold. Cut any piece of cold mutton that you 
may have, in thin slices, as evenly as possible. Place a paste- 
cutter, about an inch and a half in diameter, in the mid- 
dle of an oval dish ; then place the slices of meat all around 
the dish, one slice lapping over another; the dish being 
oval, the slices of meat will touch the paste-cutter on two 
sides, but there will be two empty places on the two 
other sides, which you fill with hard-boiled white of egg 
chopped fine, and hard-boiled yolk of ^^ chopped fine 
also ; they must not be mixed, and the yolk must be 
farther from the paste-cutter, the white touching it Put 
a string of chopped yolk of egg aU around the meat, and 
outside of it one of chopped white of egg around the yolk, 
and one of chopped parsley around the white. Remove 
the paste-cutter, and put a rose, or two or three pinks, in 
its place, or a small bunch of violets. Place one or three 
capers on each small heap of yolk of egg that is on the 
middle of the dish, and also some capers here and there 
on the string of white of egg. 

9 



194 UDTTOR. 

Place a rose at each 
end of the dish, as 
indicated in the cut 
opposite; six -radishes 
aronnd the dish, also 
as indicated in the cut, 
and yon have a dish as 
Mghtly as can be made, , 
and an excellent one, 
too. Serve with the 
following eauce in a 
boat or saucer: Put 
in a bow) half a tea- ^ "f 

spoonful of mustard, a ^ * 

little pepper and salt ; "S .. 

then pour one or two ^ || 

tablespoonfiils of vin- I 'g 

cgar 00, little b; little, H S 

beating with a fork at | ^ 

the same time ; again, g ^ 

three or four table- | ft 

spoonfuls of oil, and in g 

the same "way, and - 

when the whole is well 
mixed, aerre. 



Prepare, cook, and serve as ealfs brain. 



£rot^.— Throw them in boiling water for ten minutes, 
clean and acn^ off the bur and take oat the laige bone. 
Pat in a sancepsn a bay-lea^ one dore, a tablespoonfnl 



MUTTON. 195 

of vinegar, a clove of garlic, two fiprigs of paraley, two 
green onions, salt, pepper, a piece of butter the size of 
two walnuts, half a pint of broth, then a dozen feet on 
the whole ; set on a s.ow fire, simmer one hour, stir now 
and then, take from the fire and let cool. Then dip each 
foot in beaten egg, and roll it in bread-crumbs ; place them 
on a gridiron ; turn over to broil both sides properly, and 
serve them with the sauce in which they have been 
cooked, after having strained it. They may also be served 
on a piquanUj paivrcLde, ravigote^ or Robert sauce. 

In PouUtte. — ^Prepare and clean them as directed 
above. Put in a saucepan four ounces of salt pork cut in 
dice, two ounces of lard, salt, and white pepper ; when 
warm, add three sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, a bay- 
leaf, one clove, four onions, and one carrot, cut in slices, 
a quarter of a lemon, also cut in slices, free from rind and 
seed, two tablespoonfiils of flour ; this last must be added 
by sprinkling it little by little, stirring the while with a 
wooden spoon ; five minutes after, place the feet in, cover 
the whole with warm water, and let simmer gently for 
five or six hours. After that time see if the meat can be 
easily detached from the bones, and if so, they are cooked ; 
if not^ leave them a little longer, and take from the fire 
as soon as it is easily detached, but do not detach it. 
Put in a stewpan a piece of butter the size of two wal- 
nuts ; when melted, sprinkle in it a tablespoonful of flour, 
stir with a wooden spoon, then put the feet in, add a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley and green onions, a little 
piece of nutmeg, salt, pepper, and two or three mush- 
rooms cut in slices or pieces ; wet with broth ; simmer 
half an hour, take from the fire, and throw away the 
piece of nutmeg; mix with the whole two yolks of eggs 
well beaten and a tablespoonful of vinegar, and serve. 



196 MUTTON. 

SHEEP'S EIDNETS, BROILED. 

Split tbem in two, and pat them in cold water for five 
minutes ; trim off the pellicle or thin skin, ran a skewer 
through, sprinkle salt and pepper on, place them on the 
gridiron, and set on a good fire ; tarn over, and when 
broiled, serve them with a piece of batter and chopped 
parsley kneaded together, and placed on each kidney ; add 
also a few drops of lemon-jaice. 

Yoa may also, when broiled, serve them on a mattre 
tPhdtel saace. 

The same, in JBrochette. — ^Proceed as above in every 
particular, except that you place the kidneys on the spit 
instead of on the gridiron. Serve them in tiie same way. 

The same, with Champagne, — Cut the kidneys in slices, 
each in ten or twelve pieces. Put in a stewpan a piece 
of butter the size of two walnuts, and set it on the fire ; 
when melted, add a tea^oonfiil of chopped parsley, same 
of mushrooms, a pinch of grated nutmeg, salt, pepper, 
and the kidneys ; keep tossing till they become sti£^ then 
sprinkle on them a saltspoonful of flour, stirring with a 
wooden spoon the while ; add also a wine-glass of Cham- 
pagne, or of good white wine ; subdue the fire, and let 
simmer till cooked ; take from the fire, add about one 
ounce of fresh butter, and the juice of half a lemon, and 
serve. This is a very delicate dish. 

SHEEP'S TAILS. 

Put in a stewpan two ounces of bacon cut in slices, 
with a bay-leaf, two sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, one 
clove, six small onions, one carrot cut in four pieces, then 
about six tails ; cover the whole with broth and white 
wine, half of each ; add salt and pepper. Place the pan 
in a moderately heated oven ; it will take about four hours 



HUTTON. 197 

to cook them. After tliat time, take the tails from the 
pan, and put them in a warm place, then strain the sauce 
in which they hare cooked, skim off the fat if too much 
of it, put the sauce back in the pan, and set on the fire ; 
let it reduce till rather thick, place the tails on a j^rU^ 
turn the sauce on them, and serve. 



SHEEP*S TONGUES. 

Soak the tongues in cold water for two hours in winter, 
and one in summer, and drain. Throw them in boiling 
water, and leave till you can easily take the skin off; then 
skin and clean well, split in two lengthwise, and let cooL 
Put in a stewpan two ounces of bacon cut in thin slices, a 
bay-leai^ two sprigs of thyme, four of parsley, two cloves, 
three green onions and six small red or white ones, one 
carrot cut in four pieces, salt and pepper, then the tongues ; 
add also half a pint of broth, same of water, same of 
white wine ; set in a moderately heated oven, and sim- 
mer about four hours ; have the stewpan covered as nearly 
air-tigbt as possible. Then take the tongues from the 
pan and drain them ; knead well together two ounces of 
fresh butter, with two teaspoonfols of chopped parsley, 
a little salt and allspice ; spread some on each of the 
tongues as soon as they are cold ; envelop each in oiled 
paper, broil them gently on a slow fire, and serve with the 
paper. 

You may also when prepared and cooked as above 
directed, and instead of broiling them, place a ;pure€ on a 
dish, and serve them on a puriCy pouring on the whole 
the sauce in which they have cooked, and straining it at 
the same time. 

They are really more delicate when broiled. 



198 MUTTON. 

LAMB. 

To select, — ^The flesh mast be like tbat of mutton, 
rather black, and the fat white. 

There is no difference in the wether and ewe. The 
shorter the quarters are the better the meat, and the fore 
as well as the hind quarter. With the exception that the 
breast-piece is prepared also in ipigrammej and that it is 
cut in quarters instead of dividing it like mutton, lamb 
may be prepared in the same and every way like mutton. 
The quarters may be prepared like shoulder, leg, and sad- 
dle of mutton. 

Chops may be cut and prepared the same as mutton- 
chops. 

Fore- Quarter, "^Kccoxdaxig to the opinion of a great 
many epicures, the fore-quarter is the best part of the 
lamb ; but, as we have previously said, every one to his 
liking. 

Lard it slightly, and envelop it with buttered paper, 
place it upon the spit before a good Are ; when done take 
from the fire, and take the paper off, sprinkle on it salt, 
pepper, and chopped parsley ; put back on the spit before 
a sharp fire, just long enough to allow it to take a fine 
color; then take off, run a knife under the shoulder to 
make a small hole, pour mattre cTkdtel sauce in it, and 
serve either as it is, with its gravy, or on a purSe of 
BorreL 

To hake it, — Put it in a baking-pan, spread a little 
salt, pepper, and butter over it ; cover it with a piece of 
buttered paper ; have the bottom of the pan covered with 
cold water and put in a warm oven, baste often till done. 
If the paper bums, put on another piece. Bun a smaU 
knife or a skewer into the meat, to ascertain when proper 
ly done. 



MxnroN. 199 

It may be served with the gravy only, after having re- 
moved the fet, or with a piquante, poivradCy or mattre 
d^kdtel sance. 

It is also served with a garniture of mushrooms or 
onions, or with a macedoine, or on a puree of spinach, or 
of sorreL 

Hind'Qtiarter. — ^Throw it in boiling water for five 
minutes, and drain. Put in a stewpan a piece of butter 
the size of an egg, and set on the fire; when melted, mix 
in it a tablespoonful of flour; after which, pour in, little 
by little, a pint and a half of boiling water, stirring with 
a wooden spoon all the time ; then put the meat in the 
pan, add four onions, a bay-leaf, two cloves, three sprigs 
of parsley, two of thyme, salt, and pepper ; about fifteen 
minutes before it is done, add two or three mushrooms 
cut in slices, take firom the fire when cooked, place the 
meat on a dish with the mushrooms and onions around, 
or if preferred, without either ; strain the sauce on the 
meat, and serve. 

If the sauce is not thick enough, mix the yolk of an 
egg in it just before serving. 

Boasted. — ^Roast and serve the hind-quarter in the same 
way as directed for the fore-quarter. 

Baked. — Bake and serve it also in the same and every 
way like the fore-quarter. 

JEpifframme.^^'PMt a breast of lamb in a saucepan, 
cover it with cold water, season with a small onion and 
one clove stuck in it, two stalks of parsley, a piece of 
carrot, one of turnip, and salt. Boil gently till you can 
pull off the bones easily. It may also be boiled in the 
soup-kettle while making broth. When the bones come 
off easily, take from the fire, pull out all the small bones 
and cut out the large one. Place the breast in a large 



200 MUTTON. 

bakepan, yfiih Aome weight oyer so as to flatten it, and 
leave it so till perfectly cold. Then cut it in pieces of 
rhombic shape about four inches long and two inches 
broad; salt and pepper each piece on both sides; dip 
them in beaten egg, roll in bread-crumbs and £ry them 
with a little butter, and serve on a tomato, piquante, ravi- 
gote^ or soubise sauce, or on any puree. 

When the sauce is spread on the dish, place the pieces 
of lamb all around it, one lapping over the other, and 
forming a kind of oblong string, and serve warm. 

Another. — When the Spigramme is prepared as above 
and ready to be sensed, have as many mutton-chops as 
you have pieces of meat from the breast ; dish in the 
same way, except that you put one piece of the breast and 
then a mutton-chop fried in the same way as the pieces 
of meat ; the chops lapping over the pieces of breast, and 
vice versa. 

Broiled, — The same may be broiled instead of fried, 
and served in the same way. 

Boasted entire, — Skewer a lamb properly on the spit, 
envelop it with buttered paper, place before a good fire, 
baste often with melted butter first, and then with the 
drippings ; when nearly done take the paper off, let the 
lamb take a fine color around, and serve it with the gravy. 
It may be served with a garniture around and decorated 
with skewers, the same as directed for fillet of beef; it 
then makes a sightly as well as a delicious dish. 

Served with a garniture and decorated as directed for 
a fillet of beef, it is served as a releve at a grand dinner, 
and as an entree at a family dinner. 

Cold, — Cold lamb is served in every way like cold 
mutton. A part left from a roasted piece may be en- 
veloped in buttered paper, put on the spit just long 



MUTTON. 201 

enough to wann it, and served just in the same way as 
roast Uimb. 

Lamb'^B head^ feet^ kidneys^ etc., are prepared and 
served like the same parts of the sheep, and as directed 
in the different receipts. 

jod. 

Prepare, cook, and serve kid the same as lamb. 



VEAL. 



Nbysb buy too yoimg veal It is very easy to know 
it ; when too young, the bones are very tender ; they are 
more like nerves than bones; the meat is glnish, and 
has little or no taste. Epicures say that if a calf is 
killed before it is two months old, or at least six weeks, it 
is not fit for eating. We are of that opinion, although, 
perhaps, very few are allowed so long a life. We will 
therefore recommend our readers to beware buying too 
young veal; many diseases, especially in children, come 
from eating it. 

When you broil or roast a piece of veal, baste often. 
Veal is better when a little overdone ; it is not good, and 
operates like physic, if underdone. 

The best veal is that of a greenish color and very fat 
It is fresh when the eyes are fiill and smooth, and when the 
meat is firm. If the meat is yellowish or contains yellow- 
ish spots, it is not fresh. The veins must be red. 

To improve. — Chop fine a tablespoonfiil of parsley, a 
teaspoonful of shallots, same of green onions, a* bay-leaf, 
two sprigs of thyme, two or three mushrooms, add to 
them, salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg ; cover the bot- 
tom of a tureen with half of each, put on it the piece of 
veal you vnsh to improve, cover with the other half of the 
seasonings; then pour gently on the whole two table- 



VEAL, 208 

vpooBfdls of sweetroil ; leave the veal thus about four or 
five hours iu winter and about two in summer. 

ROASTED. 

The pieces of veal that are roasted are the lain, leg, 
and shoulder. 

It may be improved as directed above or not, accord- 
ing to taste ; but we earnestly recommend it as not a little 
improvement, but as a marked one, as everybody can try 
it and judge, veal being naturally tasteless. 

There are three ways of roasting veal. We will de- 
scribe them, so that it can be done according to taste. 

1. Spread a thin coat of butter around the piece of 
veal after being salted all around, put on the spit before 
a good but not very sharp fire; near it, but not too 
much so : veal being more tender than beef, it would also 
bum much quicker. Baste often with melted butter first, 
and then with the drippings, and from the beginning to 
the end. When done, that is, when overdone, as veal 
must always be, serve with the gravy only, or in the differ- 
ent ways described below. 

2. Lard all the fieshy parts of the piece of veal with a 
larding-needle and strips of salt pork, the same as a fillet 
of beef, but which strips you roll in a mixture of parsley 
chopped, salt and pepper, before running them into the 
meat, and proceed as above for the rest Serve also like 
the above. 

3. After the piece of veal is improved as directed, 
spread the seasonings in which it has been improved all 
around it, then envelop the whole in buttered paper, which 
you fjEisten with twine, put it on the spit, and baste often 
with melted butter. It must be basted often to prevent 
the paper from burning. About fifteen minutes before it is 



204 TEAL. 

done, remove the paper, pnt the meat a little nearer the 
fire so as to give it a fine yellow or golden color, finish the 
cooking till overdone, and serve also like the first, or No. 1. 

No matter which of these three ways the piece of veal 
is roasted, it is served in the same manner. 

With As2)araffU8. — ^When the roasted piece of veal is 
dished, put a jpuree of asparagas all around, and serve 
warm. 

With Peas, — Spread one pint or one quart (according 
to the size of the piece of meat) of green peas aujus, on a 
dish ; place the meat on the peas, spread the gravy over 
the whole, and serve as warm as possible. 

With Qiienelles.—'Di&h. the roasted piece, place around 
it six or eight quenelles of chicken or of veal, strain the 
gravy on the whole, and serve warm. 

With Vegetables.'^When roasted and dished, put any 
kind of vegetables, prepared aujus, all around the piece of 
meat, and serve warm. 

With Sweetbreads, — ^Roastthe piece of veal as directed, 
and when dished, place six sweetbreads, prepared au jiLS, 
tastefully around the meat ; strain the gravy over, and serve 
very warm. 

Decorated, — Every piece of roasted veal may be deco- 
rated with skewers, either served au jus or in any of the 
above ways. The skewers are first run through either of 
the following and then stuck into the piece of meat: slices 
of truffles ; chicken-combs, prepared as for garniture ; slices 
of sweetbreads or whole ones, prepared aujus; quenelles 
of chicken or of veal ; slices of carrots, turnips, beets, all 
prepared au jus ; and mushrooms. One, two, three, or 
more to every skewer ; for instance : one slice of truffle, 
then one of turnip, a chicken-comb, then a slice of sweet- 
bread or a whole one, and then stick in the meat. From^ 



i 



YSAL. 205 

two to six skewers may be used. On a latge piece neyet 
put less than two, and no matter how many you use, al- 
ways have even numbers of them, 

BAK£D. 

All the parts of veal that are roasted, that is, the loin, 
leg, and shoulder, can be baked. They may be improved in 
the same way as to roast them. Put the piece of veal in 
a bakepan; spread salt, pepper, and butter on it; cover 
the bottom of the pan with cold water, about a quarter 
of an inch in depth ; place a piece of buttered paper on 
the meat, and put in a warm oven. If the meat has been 
improved, the seasonings are spread over it before placing 
the buttered paper. Baste often with the water and juice 
in the pan and over the paper, which you need not re- 
move till about ten minutes before taking from the oven, 
or in case it should bum ; then you must replace it by an- 
other. It keeps the top of the meat moist, and it is more 
juicy when done. 

When properly baked (overdone, as every piece of veal 
must be), serve either au juSy or with the same garnitures, 
the same decorations, as directed for roasted vea]. 

The gravy in the bakepan is strained, the fat skimmed 
off, and then it is turned over the meat and garnitures 
when dished, the same as the drippings or gravy of roast 
meat In case the water in the bakepan, or the juice, or 
both, should boil away or be absorbed, put more cold water 
in it, so as to be able to baste; 

BLANQUETTE.— (ul&o calUd PotUeUe,) 

Take about two pounds of neck, breast, shoulder, or 

any other piece, which cut in pieces, two inches square, 

brow them in boiling water, with a little salt, for fiv» 



206 VEAL. 

mmutes, and drain them. Put in a stewpan a piece of 
batter the size of an egg, set it on a good fire, and when 
melted mix in a tablespoonful of flour, stirring all the time, 
and when turning yellow pour gently and slowly in the 
pan a pint of boiling water ; add a teaspoonfdl of chopped 
parsley and green onions, salt, pepper, six small white or 
red onions, two or three mushrooms, and then the meat; 
boil gently about three hours, and serre. 

CROQUETTE& 

Proceed as for chicken croquettes in every particular, 
except that you use cold veal instead of cold chicken. 

RAGOUT. 

The neck and breast pieces dre generally used to 
make a ragout, but any other piece may be used. Take 
about three pounds of veal, which cut in pieces about two 
inches square. Put two ounces of butter in a saucepan, 
set it on the fire, and as soon as the butter is melted, lay 
the meat in, stir now and then till of a golden color, and 
then take the meat from the pan. Leave the pan on the 
fire, and put in it a tablespoonful of flour, little by little, 
keep stirring about five minutes ; add also half a pint of 
broth, same of warm water, one onion with a clove stuck in 
it, a bay leaf, two sprigs of thyme, two of parsley, a clove 
of garlic, a small carrot cut in two or three pieces, salt and 
pepper, then the meat, and cover the pan. Half an hour 
after your meat is in, fry in butter in a frying-pan six 
small onions, which you also put in the stewpan as soon as 
fried. When the whole is cooked, place the meat on a 
dish, strain the sauce on it, surround the whole with the 
•ix small onions, and serve warm. 

Jn Scallops. — ^Take a piece from the loin or leg; of 



VEAL. 207 

Teal, cut it in pieces aboat three inclies long, two inches 
broad, and one-third of an inch thick, as evenly as possi- 
ble, and flatten them with a chopper. Salt and pepper 
them on both sides, and fry them with a little batter till 
about half done, on both sides alike. Add a little broth 
and chopped parsley, and boil gently till done. Place the 
pieces of veal all around the platter, one lapping over an- 
other, turn the sauce in the middle of them, and serve. 

Anoiher. — Cut the veal in pieces as for the above ; beat 
one or two eggs in a plate with salt, pepper, and chopped 
parsley ; dip each piece into it and then roll in bread- 
crumbs ; butter a bakepan, place the veal in with a small 
lump of butter on each piece, and bake ; turn over to bake 
evenly. Serve as the above, with a piquante or tomato 
sauce in the middle. 

BBEAST, STEWED. 

Cut in dice two ounces of bacon, put it in a stewpan 
and set on a good fire ; add two ounces of butter, and two 
onions cut in slices ; when melted, lay the breast in, turn 
it over and leave till of a golden color on both sides ; add 
then two small carrots cut in pieces, one teaspoonful of 
chopped green onions, three sprigs of parsley, half a turnip, 
salt, and pepper; moisten with half a pint of warm water; 
leave thus about three hours on a moderate ^e. Strain 
the juice in a dish, p^t the meat on it, and serve. 

The pieces of carrots and of bacon may be served with 
the meat, if you choose. 

The same, with Green Peas. — Cut the breast in square 
pieces about two inches in size. Put in a stewpan a piece 
of butter the size of an eg'g, and set it on the fire ; when 
melted, mix in it a teaspoonful of fiour, then lay the meat 
tn, and wet with half a glass of broth, same of warm wa 



208 VEAL. 

ter, also two sprigs of parsley, salt, and pepper; stir now 
and then. One hoar after add green peas, and leave on 
the fire till the whole is cooked, when skim off the fat on 
the snr&ce, and serve, 

Jn Matelote, — To make a matelote of veal any piece 
can be nsed, bnt most generally it is made with a breast or 
neck piece. Cut the veal in square pieces about two inches 
in size ; have in a stewpan and on a good fire a piece of 
butter about the size of an egg\ when melted, put the 
meat in, stir now and then till of a golden color ; then 
take the meat from the stewpan, which you leave on the 
fire, and in which you put hdf a pint of warm water, same 
of claret wine, same of broth, a bay-leaf, two cloves, two 
sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a clove of garlic, salt, and 
pepper ; when turning brown, put the meat back in the 
pan, and fifteen minutes before it is cooked add also ten 
small onions Med in butter beforehand and four or five 
mushrooms, then have a brisk fire to finish the cooking; 
place the meat on a dish, strain the sauce on the meat, 
put the ten small onions around it, and serve. 

£roiled. — Salt and pepper both sides of the breast of 
veal, grease it all over with melted butter, by means of a 
brush, and broil till overdone. Serve with a maitre d^hdtel^ 
piquantej or jpoivrade sauce. 

CTJTLETa 

JBroiled, — ^When properly trimmed, they may be im- 
proved as directed for veal. Salt and pepper both sides ; 
spread a little melted butter on both sides also by means 
of a brush ; place them on, before, or under the fire {see 
Broiling) ; baste now and then with melted butter ; turn 
over one, two, or three times, and when rather overdone 
serve with a maitre cThdtel sauce spread all over. 



VEAI*. 209 

The above way of ser?iiig them is sometimes called 
au naturel. 

With Crumbs, — ^When trimmed, dip them ia egg 
beaten with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley, roll them 
in bread-crumbs, and then broil and serve them as the 
ab^ve, with a maitre d'hdteL 

Fines Herhea. — ^Broil the chops as above, either with 
or without crumbs, and serve them with sauce aux fines 
herhes, 

A ritalienne. — When broiled as above, serve them 
on a layer of macaroni JtaHerme, 

With Mtishroams, — When broiled and dished, sur- 
round them with a garniture of mushrooms, and serve 
warm. When there are sever<al cutlets on the dish, and 
placed all around overlapping, the garniture may be put 
in the middle of the chops. 

Do the same with the following garnitures : chicken- 
combs, croutons, dtixelle, financiere, MacSdoinef and onion. 
They may also be served on any purSe, 

Baked, — Trim six cutlets. Mix well half a pound of 
sausage-meat with two eggs. Put a piece of buttered 
paper large enough to cover the bottom of a bakepan in 
which the six cutlets may be laid easily. Spread half the 
sausage-meat on the paper in the pan, then lay the cutlets 
in it; put the other half of the sausage-meat over the 
cutlets, and place the whole in a rather quick oven. Baste 
every five minutes with melted butter and broth, using 
them alternately, and serve warm with the gravy when 
done. A few drops of lemon-juice may be added to them 
when on the dish, if liked. 

Sauties. — Trim, and fry them with a little butter. 
When done on both sides, add a little broth, salt, pepper, 
and mushrooms and parsley chopped fine ; chopped truffles 



210 VEAIi. 

may be added, if handy ; boil gently for abont ten min« 
utes. Place tbe outlets around the dish, one lapping over 
the other, tnm the sance in the middle, sprinkle some 
lemon-juice oyer the whole, and serve warm. 

With Sauce, — ^When broiled, baked, or sautSd, they 
may be dished and served with either of the following 
sauces: fines herhes, maitre cThdtelj piquante^ poivrade^ 
ramgoUy tarragon^ tomato, or truffle. 

En Bellevue. — ^Proceed the same as for fillet of beef en 
Bellevue. 

In PapUlotes. — Trim six veal-chops, spread salt and 
pepper on them, and fry them with a little butter till about 
half done. Take from the fire, and cut a small holn in 
the middle with a paste-cutter. While they are frying, 
fry with a little butter one onion chopped fine ; as soon 
as fried, add half a pound of sausage-meat ; stir now and 
then for about five minutes ; add also a pinch of cinna- 
mon, same of nutmeg ; take off and mix with the whole 
one yolk of ^gg^ a tablespoonfiil of chopped parsley, salt, 
and pepper. Cut six pieces of white paper of a heart-like 
shape, and laige enough to envelop a chop; grease them 
slightly with butter or sweet-oil ; place some sausage-meat 
on one side of the paper (say half a tablespoonful), place 
a chop on it ; put some sausage-meat on the chop and in 
the hole ; fold the paper in two ; then, by folding all around 
the border, the chop and seasonings are perfectly enveloped 
in the paper ; put the chops in a baking-pan, spread a few 
drops of oil all over, and bake for about fifteen minutes in 
an oven at about 250 deg. Fahr. Instead of baking them, 
broil them carefully turning them over often and basting 
them to prevent the paper from burning, and serve with 
the paper on. They may be served on a duxelU s^ami 
lure, or with a puree. 



TEAL. 211 

Frieandeau, — ^Take a piece of veal of any size, from 
tlie leg, loin, or cutlet piece, about three-quarters of an 
mch in thickness, lard one side with salt pork, the same as 
a fillet of beefl Put in a saucepan (for two pounds of 
meat) one ounce of butter, half a middling-sized onion, and 
as much carrot in slices, two or three stalks of parsley, 
one of thyme, a bay-leaf, six or eight pepper-corns, and 
rind of the pork you have used ; spread all these season- 
ings on the bottom of the saucepan, put the piece of veal 
on them, the larded side up, set on a good fire for about 
fifteen minutes ; after which you look if the under side of 
the meat is well browned ; if so, add a gill of broth, put 
in the oven and baste often, if not, leave a little longer on 
the fire. Add a little broth once in a while, to keep the 
bottom of the pan wet, and to have enough to baste till a 
little overdone, and serve with the gravy strained all over 
it It is then called au jus. 

With Spinach, — Prepare and cook the frieandeau as 
above ; and when done, put some broth in the pan after 
having taken oS the meat ; give one boil ; turn in the spin- 
ach au jus ; stir on the fire one minute ; dish the spinach ; 
place \^iQ frieandeau on it, and serve. 

With SorreL — ^Proceed as with spinach in every par- 
ticular, except that you serve on sorrel au jus instead of 
spinach. It makes a more delicate dish with sorrel, si* 
though excellent with spinach. 

It may also be served with green peas au jus or h 
Vanglaise. 

Financiere. — ^When prepared, cooked, and dished as 
directed, surround it with a financiere garniture, and serve 
warm. 

Jardiniere. — ^After being cooked and dished, put a 
Macidoine garniture around it, and serve warm. 



212 VEAL. 

SHOULDER. 

Boned. — ^Lay the slioulder on the table, the inside np, 
split it just in the middle, lengthwise, and following the 
middle of the bones ; remove the flat bone at the larger end 
first Do the same for the remaining bone. Then spread 
the shoulder open, and salt and pepper it. Fill the inside 
with sausage-meat ; roll it of a round shape, and when 
properly tied with twine, roast or bake it, as directed for 
roasted or baked veal. It is then dished, decorated, and 
served in the same and every way as directed for roasted 
pieces of veal. 

It is an excellent dish served on either of the follow- 
ing paries: beans, celery , lentils, peas, potatoes, sorrel, 
spinach, or tomatoes. 

When served on a purSe, it may be decorated with 
skewers, the same as when served with a garniture. 

It may also be served with a piquante or poivrade 
sauce. 

Stuffed. — ^Bone the shoulder as directed above ; spread 
it open, and salt and pepper it, also as directed. Spread 
a coat of sausage-meat on it, about one-third of an inch in 
thickness, then put a layer of salt pork on the sausage- 
meat ; then a layer of boiled ham ; again a layer of sau- 
sage-meat ; on this a layer of beef or sheep's tongue, boiled. 
The ham and tongue are cut in square fillets, about one- 
fourth of an inch broad and about two inches loug. The 
tongues may be fresh or salted, according to taste. When 
filled, roll it so as to give it a round shape ; wrap it up in 
a towel and drop it in boiling water, to which you have 
added salt Boil gently for about four hours, take the 
kettle from the fire and let cooL When cold take the 
shoulder off, wipe it dry and serve with meat jelly. The 
jelly is chopped, or cut in fancy shapes, or both. Some 



i 



VEAL. 213 

chopped jelly may be placed all around the meat^ and 
some cut in fancy shapes with a paste-cutter or with a 
knife, and placed over it 

It may also be decorated with skewers, as directed for 
r'>asted pieces of veaL 

Un Bellevtie.-'^'When boiled and cold, prepare it like 
a fillet of beef en Bellevtie^ and serve, 

LOIN OR LEG STEWED. 

Have in a stewpan and on a slow fire three or four 
tablespoonfiils of sweet-oil ; when hot put the loin in, turn 
it over till of a yellow color all around, then add a bay- 
leaf, salt, pepper, and a pint of warm water ; simmer four 
hours, and serve with the following sauce, which you must 
have prepared at the same time : Fry in butter till of a 
golden color ten middling-sized onions, then add to them 
half a glass of claret wine, two tablespoonfuls of broth, and 
two of the juice of the loin, ten mushrooms (if handy) ; 
simmer till cooked, and strain. Mix the sauce with 
the juice of the loin, and put it on a dish, place the loin 
upon it, and serve with the onions and mushrooms around 
the meat. 

In case the juice of the loin should be found too fat, 
throw in it (and before mixing it with the sauce) a few 
drops of cold water, and skim off the fat 

The only thing to throw away before mixing is the 
bay-lea£ 

Ariother way^ or prepared with a Garniture of Cabbages, 
— ^Put in a stewpan- and set on a good fire a piece of but- 
ter the size of an egg ; when melted, add four onions and 
two small carrots, cut in slices ; fry them two or three 
minutes, then put the loin in, with half a bay-leaf, wet 
with warm broth ; then subdue the fire, let simmer about 



214 YEAL. 

two hours and a half; straiii the sauce on a dish, place the 
meat on it, and serve with a garniture of cabbages around. 

COLD VEAL. 

Cut the meat in slices and serve them on a dish, ar- 
ranged according to fimcy, and serve with a piquante^ 
poivradej Mayonnaise, Proven^ale, ramgote, or rhnolade 
sauce. It may also be decorated and served like cold 
mutton, in vinaigrette. 

Another way, — ^Put a piece of butter the size of an eg'^ 
in a stewpan and set on a good fire, mix in when melted 
two teaspoonfuls of flour, stir till of a brownish color, when 
add a saltspoonfiil of chopped parsley, four leaves of tarra- 
gon, salt, pepper, and half a pint of broth (more or less of 
the above according to the quantity of meat you have left), 
boil the whole fifteen minutes ; then, if what you have left 
is from an entire piece, cut it in slices, lay them in the 
pan, and serve when warm enough, as it is. 

If what you have left is in pieces or slices, you merely 
place them in the pan and serve with the sauce when 
warm. 

BRAIN. 

To prepare, — Put the brain in a bowl of cold water 
and a tablespoonful of vmegar and leave it in from one to 
two or three hours, that is, till you are ready to use it, but 
do not leave it more than five or six hours and not less 
than one hour. Take it off, remove the thin skin and 
blood-vessels that are all around. 

To boil. — ^When prepared, put the brain in a small 
saucepan, cover it with cold water ; add two tablespoon- 
fiils of vinegar, half an onion sliced, three stalks of parsley, 
one of thyme, a bay-leal^ six pepper-corns, one clove, salt. 



YSAL. 215 

Doil about fiye minutes and take off tlie fire. Cut each 
half of the brain in two, from side to side ; place the four 
pieces on a dish, the part cut upward. 

Au Beurre Noir. — ^When dished as above directed, put 
two ounces of butter in a frying-pan and when melted turn 
into it two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, boil two or three 
minutes, then throw into it half a dozen stalks of parsleyy 
take them off immediately with a skimmer, turn the butter 
and vinegar over the brain ; spread the paibley around, and 
serve. 

Stewed J or in Matelote, — ^When prepared as directed, 
put it in a small saucepan and cover it with claret wine ; 
add half an onion sliced, one clove of garlic, one clove, two 
sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, salt, a bay-leaf, six pepper- 
corns, and boil gently for about fifteen minutes. Cut 
and dish it as directed above; turn the sauce over it 
through a strainer and serve— 'it is understood, the sauce 
in which it has been cooked. 

Fried. — ^Prepare as directed, cut in about six slices, 
dip them in batter, and fry in hot fat {See direction for 
Feting.) 

Jn Foulette.'^'PTep&Te and boil it as directed, split 
each half of the brain in two or four pieces, place them 
tastefully on a dish, spread a poulette sauce all over, and 
serve warm. It may also be prepared and served with a 
piquante sauce. When the piquante sauce is made, put 
the brain or brains in, boil ten minutes, and serve as it is» 

EARS. 
They are prepared in every way like calfs head. 

FEET. 
To boil. — Throw them in boiling water for five min* 
utes, split them in the middle and lengthwise after having 



212 VEAL. 

SHOULDER. 

JBoned. — Iaj the slionlder on the table, the inside np, 
split it just in the middle, lengthwise, and following the 
middle of the bones ; remove the flat bone at the larger end 
first Do the same for the remaining bone. Then spread 
the shoulder open, and salt and pepper it Fill the inside 
With sausage-meat ; roll it of a round shape, and when 
properly tied with twine, roast or bake it, as directed for 
roasted or baked veal. It is then dished, decorated, and 
served in the same and every way as directed for roasted 
pieces of veal. 

It is an excellent dish served on either of the follow* 
ing purSes: beans, celery, lentils, peas, potatoes, sorrel, 
spinach, or tomatoes. 

When served on a purSe, it may be decorated with 
skewers, the same as when served with a garniture. 

It may also be served with a piquante or poivrade 
sauce. 

Stuffed, — ^Bone the shoulder as directed above ; spread 
it open, and salt and pepper it, also as directed. Spread 
a coat of sausage-meat on it, about one-third of an inch in 
thickness, then put a layer of salt pork on the sausage- 
meat ; then a layer of boiled ham ; again a layer of sau- 
sage-meat ; on this a layer of beef or sheep's tongue, boiled. 
The ham and tongue are cut in square fillets, about one- 
fourth of an inch broad and about two inches long. The 
tongues may be fresh or salted, according to taste. When 
filled, roll it so as to give it a round shape ; wrap it up in 
a towel and drop it in boiling water, to which you have 
added salt Boil gently for about four hours, take the 
kettle from the fire and let cooL When cold take the 
shoulder o£^ wipe it dry and serve with meat jelly. The 
jelly is chopped, or cut in fancy shapes, or both. Some 



VEAL. 213 

chopped jeUy may be placed aU around the meat, and 
some cut in fancy shapes with a paste-cutter or with a 
knife, and placed over it. 

It may also be decorated with skewers, as directed for 
r'>asted pieces of veal 

JSn ^eZ^t^.— -When boiled and cold, prepare it like 
a fillet of heefen Bellevuej and serve. 

LOIN OR LEG STEWED. 

Have in a stewpan and on a slow fire three or four 
tablespoonfiils of sweetK>il ; when hot put the loin in, turn 
it over till of a yellow color all around, then add a bay- 
leaf, salt, pepper, and a pint of warm water ; simmer four 
hours, and serve with the following sauce, which you must 
have prepared at the same time : Fry in butter till of a 
golden color ten middling-sized onions, then add to them 
half a glass of claret wine, two tablespoonfuls of broth, and 
two of the juice of the loin, ten mushrooms (if handy) ; 
simmer till cooked, and strain. Mix the sauce with 
the juice of the loin, and put it on a dish, place the loin 
upon it, and serve with the onions and mushrooms around 
the meat. 

In case the juice of the loin should be found too fat, 
throw in it (and before mixing it with the sauce) a few 
drops of cold water, and skim oflTthe fat. 

The only thing to throw away before mixing is the 
bay-lea£ 

Another way, or prepared with a Garniture of Cabbages, 
— Put in a stewpan- and set on a good fire a piece of but- 
ter the size of an egg ; when melted, add four onions and 
two smaU carrots, qut in slices ; fry them two or three 
minutes, then put the loin in, with half a bay-lea^ wet 
with warm broth ; then subdue the fire, let simmer about 



214 VBAL. 

two hours and a half; stroiii the sauce on a dish, place the 
meat on it, and serve with a garniture of cabbages around. 

COLD VEAL. 

Cut the meat in slices and serve them on a dish, ar- 
ranged according to £fincy, and serve with a piquanUj 
poivradef Mayonnaise, Proven^alCj ravigotey or rSmolade 
sauce. It may also be decorated and served like cold 
mutton, in vinaigrette. 

Another way, — ^Put a piece of butter the size of an egg 
in a stewpan and set on a good fire, mix in when melted 
two teaspoonfuls of flour, stir till of a brownish color, when 
add a saltspoonfii] of chopped parsley, four leaves of tarra- 
gon, salt, pepper, and half a pint of broth (more or less of 
the above according to the quantity of meat you have left), 
boil the whole fifteen minutes ; then, if what you have left 
is from an entire piece, cut it in slices, lay them in the 
pan, and serve when warm enough, as it is. 

If what you have left is in pieces or slices, you merely 
place them in the pan and serve with the sauce when 
warm. 

BRAIN. 

To prepare. — Put the brain in a bowl of cold water 
and a tablespoonful of vmegar and leave it in from one to 
two or three hours, that is, till you are ready to use it, but 
do not leave it more than five or six hours and not less 
than one hour. Take it of^ remove the thin skin and 
blood-vessels that are all around. 

To boil. — ^When prepared, put the brain in a small 
saucepan, cover it with cold water ; add two tablespoon- 
fills of vinegar, half an onion sliced, three stalks of paxsloy, 
one of thyme, a bay-leai^ six pepper-corns, one clove, salt^ 



VEAL. 215 

Doll about five minutes and take off the fire Cut each 
half of the brain in two, from side to side ; place the four 
pieces on a dish, the part cut upward. 

An Beurre iVotr. — ^When dished as above directed, put 
two ounces of butter in a irying-pan and when melted turn 
into it two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, boil two or three 
minutes, then throw into it half a dozen stalks of parsley, 
take them off immediately with a skimmer, turn the butter 
and vinegar over the brain ; spread the parbley around, and 
serve. 

StewedyOr in Matelote, — ^When prepared as directed, 
put it in a small saucepan and cover it with claret wine ; 
add half an onion sliced, one clove of garlic, one clove, two 
sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, salt, a bay-leaf, six pepper- 
corns, and boil gently for about fifteen minutes. Cut 
and dish it as directed above; turn the sauce over it 
through a strainer and serve— it is understood, the sauce 
in which it has been cooked. 

Fried. — ^Prepare as directed, cut in about six slices, 
dip them in batter, and fry in hot fat (^e^ direction for 
Fbtino.) 

Jn Foulette. — ^Prepare and boil it as directed, split 
each half of the brain in two or four pieces, place them 
tastefully on a dish, spread a poulette sauce all over, and 
serve warm. It may also be prepared and served with a 
piguante sauce. When the piquante sauce is made, put 
the brain or brains in, boil ten minutes, and serve as it is. 

EARS. 
They are prepared in every way like calfs head. 

FEET. 
To hoil. — ^Throw them in boiling water for five min* 
iiies, split them in the middle and lengthwise after having 



216 y£AL. 

taken off the laige bone and hair, and tie them with a 
string. Put a piece of batter the size of two wahints in a 
stewpan and set it on the fire, when melted add a teaspoon- 
ful of chopped parsley and green onions, half of each, a 
quarter of a lemon cut in slices, salt, and pepper, then the 
feet ; wet with a glass of warm water ; boil gentiy two or 
three hours, take from the fire and when nearly cold dip 
them in bread-Ksnimbs, place them on a gridiron and set 
on a good fire, baste slightly with the juice io which they 
have cooked, and serve with Med parsley around. 

The samef in Foulette. — ^Prepare and cook them as 
above. When you take them from the ^e^ instead of 
dipping them in bread-crumbs, put them in a paukite 
sauce, simmer ten minutes, and serve. 

Fried. — When boiled And drained dry, dip them in 
beaten egg, roll in bread-crumbs, fry in hot fat, and serve 
with green parsley all around. 

In Vinaigrette. — ^Boil them as directed and drain them 
dry. When perfectly cold, serve them with a vinaigrette. 

CALFS HEAD. 

JSbw to prepare. — ^When the hair is off and the whole 
head well cleaned (this is generally done by butchers ; 
but if not, throw the head ui boiling water for five min- 
ntes and scrape the hair off with a knife immediately after 
taking it from the water), put it then in cold water for 
twenty-four hours in winter and ten in summer, changing 
the water two or three times. 

To boil. — ^It mav be boiled whole or after it is boned. 
If boiled whole, cut a hole on the top of the head and 
take off the brain without breaking it ; put it in cold 
water immediately and as directed. Then set the head on 
the fire in a saucepan, covered with cold water, salt, one 



VEAL. 217 

onion sliced, half a lemon, four stalks of parsley, one of 
thyme, a bay-leaf^ two cloves, two cloves of garlic, ten 
pepper-corns, and two tablespoonfuls of vinegar; boil 
gently till done. Bone it before nsing it. 

When boiled after being boned, the brain is taken off 
in the same way as above and put in cold water also ; then 
the tongue is cut out and boiled with the skin of the 
head, etc., with the same seasonings aa when boiled whole. 
It is then ready for use, but leave it in the water till 
wanted ; it would become tougli if exposed to the air. 

In Poulette.-^Tnt about two ounces of butter in a 
saucepan, set it on the fire, when melted turn in one table- 
spoonful of flour ; stir, and as soon as it commences to 
turn yellow add half a pint of broth, stir again, and when 
thickening, add the calfs head cut in rather large dice, 
give one boil, take from the fire, add the yolk of an egg 
and about a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, stir, give 
another boil, and serve. 

In Vinaigrette. — ^Leave it in the water till perfectly 
cold ; or, if wanted immediately, as soon as boiled, take 
it off and put in cold water to cool, and use. Cut the 
head in large dice and serve it with oil, vinegar, salt, pep- 
per, mustard, and parsley chopped. 

broiled, — ^Prepare and boO the calfs head as directed. 
As soon as cool, cut it in about half a dozen pieces, dip 
fiiem in beaten eggs, roll them in bread-crumbs, and broil 
both sides till turning of a golden color; serve warm 
with a maitre (Thdtel sauce, or with ancho\'y or horse- 
radish butter. 

IHed. — Calfs h^ad may be fried as soon as prepared 
and boiled ; but most generally, it is only what has been 
left from the day before that is fried. Cut it in small 
pieces about two inches square, dip them in melted butter, 

10 



218 TEAL. 

roll them in bread-crambs, and fry them in hot &t. Serve 
hot, adding lemon-juice when the pieces of calf s head are 
on the dish. 

En Tortue, or Turtle-like. — There are two ways of 
preparing calf s head en tortue : 

1. When it is prepared and boiled as directed above, 
drain it dry, cut it in pieces as for frying it; put them in 
a saucepan with once ounce of butter, set on the fire, stir 
for two minutes, add nearly a pint of Madeira wine, sim- 
mer gently for about half an hour ; dish the meat, add a 
little lemon-juice all over, and serve warm. Some que- 
nelles of chicken may be placed all around, as a decoration ; 
or . garniture of Biuahroom.. 

2. Pjrepare and boil the calf s bead ; drain it dry and 
cut it in pieces about two inches square. Dish the pieces 
either mound-like, or around the dish, one lapping over 
the other, and turn the following over it, and serve warm : 
Pat a financih'e garniture in a saucepan with a pint of 
Madeira wine, set on the fire and boil gently for about 
twenty minutes; take from the fire, spread over the 
pieces of calf's head, and serve. 

Some hard-boiled eggs cut in four or eight pieces, 
lengthwise, may be placed all around the dish ; or some 
pickled cucumbers, cut in &ncy pieces, or some quenelles 
of veal or chicken. 

HEABT. 

To prepare. — Soak it in lukewarm water for about 
three hours, trim it and free it from skin, blood, and small 
fibres ; then drain and wipe it dry. Stuff or fill it with 
sausage-meat, to which you add previously two or three 
onions chopped fine. 

To (jook. — ^When thus prepared, envelop it in buttered 



TEAL. 219 

paper, set on tlie spit before a good fire, baste often, re- 
move tbe paper a few minutes before taking it from tbe 
fire, tben serve warm with a piquante, jpoivrade, or ravi' 
goU sauce. It may also be served with a vinaigrette. 

To bake. — When prepared as directed above, put it 
in a baking-pan ; spread a little butter over, put a little 
water in the bakepan and set in a quick oven, baste and 
tarn over two or three times, and when done, serve with 
the gravy and the same sauces as if it were roasted. 

In Gratin. — Soak, drain and wipe it dry as directed. 

Gut it in slices and put them in a crockery or other 
pan ; turn a white sauce all over, then sprinkle on half a 
gill of vinegar or the juice of a lemon, dust with bread- 
crumbs, put half a dozen lumps of butter, each about the 
size of a hazelnut, all over; bake in a rather quick 
oven. 

KIDNEYa 

SautS. — When prepared as directed below, cut it in 
pieces as directed for kidney in brochettes. Then put a 
piece of butter the size of half an egg in a frying-pan and 
set it on the fire ; when melted, sprinkle in a teaspoonful 
of fiour, stirring with a wooden spoon the while, add half 
a wine-glass of white wine, a tablespoonful of broth, a 
pinch of chopped parsley, salt and pepper, boil ten 
minutes and lay the fillets in ; have a quick fire, and as 
soon as cooked dish them, spread the sauce over, sprinkle 
on a few drops of lemon-juice, and serve. 

To 'prepare. — ^Never cook a kidney except it be very 
fresh. Prepare in the following way, a beef, sheep, or 
calf's kidney. Pig's kidneys are excellent if they have no 
disagreeable taste, but it is very often the case. The bad 
taste may be partly taken away by blanching the kidney, 



220 VEAL. 

but it makes it tough and tasteless ; it is better to throw 
it away. 

In Brochettes. — Spht the kidney in four lengthwise, 
and then cut it in rather small pieces. Cut fat salt pork 
in pieces of the same size as the pieces of kidney — the 
&tty part of the kidney most not be used — ^then salt and 
pepper the pieces of kidney ; take a common skewer and 
ruB it through a piece of kidney, then through a piece of 
salt pork ; repeat this till the skewer is full. Fill as many 
skewers as are necessary till the whole kidney is used ; 
and then roast before a good fire, basting often with 
melted butter. Senre warm. 

Another way, — Prepare as above, and instead of roast- 
ing, put the skewers in a bake-pan, spread a little butter 
over the kidney and salt pork, cover the bottom of the 
pan only with cold water, and bake. While in the oven, 
turn over and baste occasionally. 

Serve as the above, with its gravy, and warm. 

Another. — Skewer the kidney, or rather pieces of kid- 
ney and salt pork as above ; dip them in beaten ^g^ roU 
them in bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat. Serve 
warm, but without gravy. 

LIGHTa 

Gut them in four pieces, soak and wash them three or 
four times in lukewarm water, changing the water each 
time ; press them with the hands to extract all the blood. 
Place the lights in a stewpan, cover them with cold water, 
and set on a good fire ; boil two minutes, take them off, 
throw them in cold water, and drain them ; cut the %htfl 
in dice. Have butter in a stewpan on the fire, and when 
melted, lay the lights in, fry fi?e minutes, keeping them 
tossed the while, then sprinkle on a tablespoonful of flour, 



221 

Bturing aU the time mth a wooden spoon; ponr on, fitde 
by little, about a pint of warm broth, also a saltspoonfdl 
of chopped parsley, a pinch of allspice, salt, pepper, a bay- 
leaf, and sprig of thyme ; have a brisk fire, and when 
about half done, add four or five mushrooms, and eight 
small onions. When the whole is cooked, take <^ bay- 
leaf and thyme, then take from the fir^ beat two yolks of 
^gs with a tablespoonfiil of vin^ar, and mix with the 
whole, turn on a dish, and serve. 

CALPS LIVER. 

Mow to prepare. — Have water, with a little salt, on the 
fire, and at the first boilings throw the liver in for about 
five minutes, and drain it 

Hew to improve ike Liver "before cooking tt— Put in a 
tureen two tablespoonfels of sweet-oil, a bay-leaf broken 
in four pieces, two sprigs of thyme, four of parsley chop- 
ped fine, a green onion also chopped fine, salt, and pepper ; 
lay the liver on the whole, and leave it firom four to six 
hours, turning it over two or three times. 

How to cooky roa«/eJ.— -Envelop the liver with but* 
tered paper, place it on the spit before a good fire, baste 
often with the oil from the tureen, after having taken off 
bay-leaf and thyme. A few minutes before it is done^ 
take the paper ofiT, baste continually with the drippings 
till well cooked, and serve it with the gravy. 

It may also be served with a ptqucmte or poivrade 
sauce. 

It takes from thirty-five to forty-five minutes to 
roast it 

The same, «aM<^.— Put two ounces of butter in a fry- 
ing-pan, and set it on a sharp fire ; when melted, add a 
teaspoonfrd of chopped parsley and green onions, then the 



222 VBAL. 

liver cut in slices (after baving been prepared as above) ; 
sprinkle on a salte^oonfal of flonr, tben balf a wine-glass 
of warm brotb, same of claret wine, salt, pepper, and a 
pincb of allspice ; serve wben done. 

It takes only from ten to twelve minntes for tbe whole 
process. 

The samey in the Ot^en.— Pnt two ounces of batter in a 
frying-pan on a sharp fire ; when hot, put the Hver in 
(after having been boiled as directed above, and after hav- 
ing cut it in pieces) ; fry it five minutes, taming over 
once only ; then take from the fire, salt both sides of the 
slices, place them on a warm dish, putting on each slice a 
little batter kneaded with chopped parsley, salt, and pep- 
per ; put two or three minutes in a warm oven, take oS, 
sprinkle on the whole the juice of half a lemon, and 
serve in the dish in which it has cooked* 

The samej stewed* — ^Boil the liver as directed above, 
and. when drained and cold, lard it welL Have butter in 
a frying-pan on a brisk fire ; when hot, put the liver in 
for about five minutes, turning it over on every side. 
Have in a stewpan four ounces of bacon cut in dice ; set 
it on a good fire, and when hot, lay the liver m ; then add 
a glass of warm broth, same of white wine, a bay-lea^ a 
sprig of thyme, two of parsley, & clove of garlic, two 
doves, and a small carrot cut in two ; cover the stewpan, 
subdue the fire, and let simmer three hours ; stir now and 
then, place the liver on a dbh, strain the sauce on it, and 
serve. 

CALPS PLUCK. 

Put the pluck in cold water for twelve hours in winter 
and four in summer ; change the water once, drain, and 
throw it in boiling water for ten or fifteen minutes; take 



TSAL. 223 

off and throw in cold water to cool, and drain it Gut 
the pluck in pieces, and cook it like calf's head, and 
serre with the same sance. 

OALFS TAIL. 

Take two tails, cnt each in two, throw them in boil* 
faig water for three minutes, and drain. Out a cabbage in 
two, trim off the stump, throw the two halves in boiling 
water, with a little salt, for fifteen minutes, and drain it. 
Put in a toreen the tails, cabbage, six ounces of lean ba- 
con, two sprigs of parsley chopped fine, same quantity of 
green onions, two cloyes, a little piece of nutmeg, a clove 
of garlic, salt, and pepper ; cover the whole with half broth 
and half water, and boil gently till cooked. Then take 
off cloves, nutmeg, and gmrlic, turn the remainder on a 
dish, and serve. 

TONGUE. 

Freparo, cook, and serve a calf's tongue, in the same 
and every way like a fresh beef's tongue. The only dif- 
ference is, that, being smaller, it is seldom decorated. 

It may be split in two, lengthwise and nearly through, 
opened and served thus, with slices of pickled cu- 
cumbers. 

SWEETBREADa 

To prepare. — Soak diem in cold water for about an 
hour. Take off and remove the skin and bloody vessels 
that are all around. For two sweetbreads set about one 
pint of water on the fire in a small saucepan with salt, a 
tabkspoonful of vinegar, a few slices of onion, six pepper- 
corns, a clove of garlic, two cloves, six sprigs of parsley, 
one of thyme, and a bay-leaf; boil two minutes, drop the 
sweetbreads in, boil one minute and take them off. Drop 



224 TEAL. 

them immediately ia cold water and leave them in ht 
jfrom two minutes to an hour. Put them on a flat surface 
with a board over, and leave them thus till they are per- 
fectly cold and rather flattened. 

Au Ju9. — Trim them a little, so as to give them a 
better appearance. Lard the top or smooth side, then 
butter the bottom of a pan, spread a few slices of onion 
on the butter; add a bay-Jeaf^ a clove, two stalks of par»* 
ley ; place the sweetbreads on the whole, the larded side 
up, cover the pan and set on a good fire, or in a rather 
warm oven ; about ten minutes after, add two or three 
tablespoonfuls of broth, baste now and then till done. If 
the broth is absorbed before the sweetbreads are done, 
add some more. Dish the sweetbreads, turn the gravy 
over them through a strainer, and serve. 

Another way, — Prepare as above directed ; then, in- 
stead of larding it, you Imead well together two ounces 
of butter, a teaspoonful of shallots and parsley well chop- 
ped, half a clove of garlic, salt, and pepper ; place the 
whole in a stewpan, with the sweetbreads on it, and thin 
slices of bacon on the sweetbreads ; set the pan on a good 
fire, and add then half a glass of broth, same of white 
wine ; simmer till cooked ; dish the sweetbreads, throw a 
few drops of cold water in the sauce, skim off the fat, 
strain the sauce on the sweetbreads, and serve. 

When the sweetbreads au jun are dished as directed, 
place tastefuUy, all around, either of the following garni- 
tures : cauliflower^ chicken-combSj duxelle, financiered mush- 
rooriM, livery Macedoiney guenellesj and truffles. Besides 
these garnitures, the sweetbreads may be decorated with 
small skewers, run through a boiled crato-fish and a small 
quevUUe of chicken or of veal. One or two skewers may 
be stuck in each sweetbread. 



TEAIi. 225 

The sweetbreads, when several are served at a time, 
may be placed on the dish, either aronnd it, formiDg a 
kind of crown, or forming a pyramid, or in 'any other 
way, according to fancy. They may also be served with 
a sauce finei herbe$. 



PORK. 



TO SELECT. 

Whxk the rind is tender and thin, the pork is young; 
when thick and hard, it is old. 

To be good, the meat must be soft, and have a firesh 
and good appearance. 

We do not think it necessary to indicate here how to 
make black puddings, chitterlings, Bologna, and other 
sausages. It is nearly, if not quite impossible, for a per- 
son having no practice in it, to make them edible ; it is 
better to buy ihem ready made at pork-butchers* shops, or 
to hire an experienced person to make them. 

CHINE AND FILLET. 

Take a good chine of pork, place it on the spit before 
a sharp fire, baste often with a little melted butter first, 
and then with the drippings ; when properly cooked, serve 
it with a vinaigrette^ Mobert, piqtuintej or poivrade sauce. 
It will take from two to three or four hours to roast, ac 
cording to the size of the chine. 

HOW TO IMPKOVE THE CHINE OF PORK. 

Place it in a crockery vessel, pour on it two table- 
spoonfuls of sweet-oil, then sprinMe on two teaspoonfuls 
of chopped parsley, also salt and pepper, two onions 



ehopped fine, foar doves, and two bay-leaves ; leave thus 
twenty-four bonis in winter, and ten in sammer, tnming 
over two or three times. Tbe taste of tbe meat is mucb 
improved by that process. The oil may be used for bast- 
ing instead of batter. 

Baked. — ^Put the chine m a bakepan, sprinkle salt over 
it^ cover the bottom of the pan with cold water, and put in 
a rather quick oven, baste often, and in case there should 
be much fat in the pan, take it off and add a little cold 
water. 

When overdone, serve with any of the following 
puries: beans, lentils, Lima beans, onions, peas, potatoes, 
sorrel, or spinach. 

It may also be served with the following sauces: finet 
herheSj piquantej poivrade^ Frcvmfoh^ raviffote^ rhnolade, 
Hobertf tarragon^ Tartar ^ and vinaigrette. 

It is served also with a tomatoHsauce. Make more 
sauce for pork than for other dishes, and make the tomato- 
lauce rather thick by boiling it gently for some time ; it 
tastes better so with pork. 

Always use mustard with pork, if you like it. Horse- 
radish, also, is good with it 

CUTLETa 

Flatten the cutlets with a chopper (they niay be im- 
proved in the same way as the chine), place them on the 
gridiron and set on a sharp fire ; turn over two or three 
times, and when properly done, serve them with a piquante^ 
Mobertf or tomato-sauce, adding to them some slices of 
pickled cucumbers just before serving. 

The same, sautees. — ^Instead of broiling them, when 
prepared as above, place them in a frying-pan with a little 
butter, turn over two or three times during the cookmg, 
and serve as the above, or on a purie of sorreL 



S28 POBE. 

LEG, BOASTED. 

Haw to improve it — Take the skin or rind gently off, 
put the leg in a crockery yessel, pour on it the following 
mixture: a pint of white wine, two tablespoonfols oi 
sweet-oil, a bunch of sage, salt, pepper, and a pinch of 
grated nutmeg. Leave it thus two days in winter and one 
in summer, turning it over two or three times during the 
process. 

Place the leg on the spit and put before a very sharp 
fire, baste often with the mixture from the crockery vessel, 
or with melted butter, and serve when cooked, with the 
gravy strained. It will take about two or two and a half 
hours to roast it. 

Baked. — ^Bake and serve the 1^ in the same and every 
way as the chine, with purees and sauces. Any part of 
pork is prepared like chine. 

Mam in JIors-cToeuvre. — Cut the ham in small and thin 
slices, place the slices tastefully on a dish, either overlap- 
ping or in pyramid, or in any other fancy way, and servo 
with parsley in the middle or around. Slices of lemon 
may also be served with it, either with the parsley or 
without it. 

HAM. 

To hail, — Sugar-cured are preferred to others. 
Scrape oflF the outside gently, soak in cold water foi 
from six to twenty-four hours, take off and wipe dry. 

Envelop it in a towel and tie it Place it in a kettle 
large enough to hold it without bending it ; cover with 
cold water ; season with six small onions, two carrots, four 
cloves, two bay-leaves, a handful or two plants of parsley, 
two or three stalks of thyme, two of celery, two cloves of 
garlic (a handful of hay and half a bottle of white winOi 



229 

if bandy would improve tbe taste) ; boil gently for fonr or 
five boars, according to tbe size (fonr bours for a ten-pound 
one, ^ye for a fifteen-pound one). Pay no attention to tbe 
old saying tbat ^* it takes baJf an bour to every pound." 

Take from tbe fire, remove tbe towel, hteak off and 
remove tbe small bone at tbe larger end of it, and without 
tearing tbe meat. Bemove tbe rind also, leaving only 
about two incbes of it near tbe smaller end, cutting it so 
tbat it will be dentilated. 

To decorate. — ^It is decorated in several ways, accord- 
ing to taste and fiincy. If. tbe fat is not wbite after 
having removed tbe rind, spread a very thin coat of lard 
over it, place tbe bam on a dish, tbe hitj side up. Gut 
carrots, turnips, and beets, boiled tender, in &ncy shapes, 
with paste-butters or with a knife ; place them tastefully 
all over tbe bam; place also all over it some parsley, 
capers, and olives. Chop some meatrjelly and put it all 
around tbe dish, and serve. In carving it, scrape back 
the lard and vegetables, slice, and serve. 

Another, — ^Wben boiled, trimmed, and tbe rind re* 
moved, put it in tbe oven for about twenty minutes, bast* 
ing tbe while with a Madeira sauce. Serve with tbe 
sauce. Any kind of purSe may be served with it. 

Another. — When trimmed and soaked in water as di- 
rected, boil it with half wine and half water : tbe same 
seasonings as when boiled in water. Use either Catawba, 
Sauterne, or Rhine wine. It makes it more expensive, 
but it is excellent. It is served as when boiled in water. 

Another. — ^Boil it in claret wine, and when trimmed 
and decorated, serve it with a mushroom or a truffle sauce>. 

Another. — Boil, trim, and cut off tbe rind as described 
m the above cases; place tbe frill, and serve with spinach 
au beurre. 



S80 FOBK. 

JxoAsr. — ^Boiland 
trim Hie ham as above, 
cat the riod in tbe 

ume -wnf. Wbat is ^ 

left of the rind is cut iT 

as seen in the cot op- Z 

posite: that is, some •% 

small square pieces are 

cat off, from place to i 

place, BO that it re- J 

sembles a checker- 1 

board ; Btick two or S 

more skewers in it, £ 

glaze it with essence £ 

of beef or with an- ^ 

gar, and serve either ^ 

on a tomato-saace 8 

or on peas & VAti- ~ 

fllmte. I 

Sam Englishfath- % 

ton. — Soak it in water \ 

and trim it as directed. 
Uake some paste with 
water and flour only ; 

spread a coat of this paste all over the bam, and then en- 
velop it in bnttered or oiled paper. Pat it on the spit and 
baste with fat while it is roasting. Boast it for three or 
three and a balf boors, according to uze ; remove the paper 
aboat two bonrs after it has been taken from the fire ; cat 
a hole in the paste about an inch in diameter and on the 
lean ude ; poar ieto it, little by little, half a pint of good 
Maddni wine, cover the hole with some paste, placing a 
band of paper on it to prevent it from falling; pnt the 



POBK. 231 

bam hack on the spit for abont twenty minates, and serve 
whole with Madeira sauce. We mean, by serving whole, 
with the paste around it, bat not the paper. 

Besides the sauce, some green vegetables, boiled only, 
are served on separate dishes, but eaten with the ham. 

It is also served like game, with cunrant-jelly, apple- 
sauce, etc 

Champagne Sauce. — ^Proceed as for the above in every 
particular, except that you use Champagne instead of Ma- 
deira wine, and when done serve it with a Champagne 
sauce. 

Another, — It may be boiled as directed above, and 
served with a Champagne sauce also. 

Anothef, — ^When soaked and dry, put it in a crockery 
vessel ; put on and all around it four onions chopped fine, 
two bay-leaves, two sprigs of thyme, a piece of nutmeg, 
and pour on the whole a bottle of white wine; cover the 
vessel as nearly air-tight as possible, leave it thus for about 
twenty-four hours, turning it over two or three times, so 
as to let every side take the seasonings. Place the ham on 
the spit before a good fire, baste often with the seasonings 
from the crockery vessel, and when done take it ofl^ duat 
it with fine raspings of bread, place it fifteen minutes in a 
slow oven, strain the drippings, boil them till redueed to a 
proper thickness, dish the ham, pour the drippings on it^ 
and serve. 

SALTED PORE. 

The best and only proper way to cook salted pork, is, 
to put it in a kettle, entirely cover it with cold water, boil 
gently till cooked, and serve it with a purie or with a gar- 
niture of cabbi^e. Any thing else that you might put 
with it would rather spoil than better it 



232 

« 

PIG'S £AB& 

How to prepare, — Soak them in warm water for a few 
minutes, then wash and clean them weU, and scrape the 
hair off, if any. 

Boiled, — ^When prepared, yon throw them in hoiling 
water for two minutes and take from the fire ; add four 
onions for four ears, one carrot, salt and pepper ; leave just 
water enough to cover the whole, and when cooked, drain. 
Serve them on a purh of beans or of lentils. 

The same^ hroUed, — ^When cleaned, prepared, and 
cooked as above, just dip them in beaten eggs, roll them 
in bread-crumbs, place on the gridiron and on the fire, 
broil for about two or three minutes ; then serve them with 
a maitre d*h6tel sauce. 

PIG'S FEET. 

Broiledy or h la Sainte MenehovM, — Split six feet m 
two, lengthwise, and soak them in tepid water for ten 
minutes, then envelop each in a piece of linen well tied 
or sewed ; place them in a kettle or stewpan ¥rith four 
small onions, four sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, two of 
sweet basil, two bay-leaves, two cloves of garlic, two cloves^ 
two small carrots cut in pieces, salt, pepper, and half 
a pint of white wine; cover with cold water, simmer 
about six hours, skim them properly, fill with boiling water 
so as to have them covered all the time ; take from the 
fire when cooked, and when nearly cool take the feet from 
the kettle, untie them, throw away the linen, and let them 
cooL Dip each in melted butter or in sweet-oil, roll in 
bread-crumbs, and place on a gridiron and on a good fire ; 
serve them as they are, when properly broiled. 

Stuffed, — Prepare the feet and cook them as above. 
When perfectly cold, remove the long bone of each hal^ 



233 

fiU the place with saosage-meat ; dip each in melted butter 
and yolk of e^, mixed and seasoned with salt and pepper, 
roll in bread-crambs, and brolL While they are broiling, 
baste them with melted bntter. Serve as they are, or with 
meat-jelly, or gravy. 

Stuffed with Truffles. — Proceed as with the Above in 
every particular, so far as removing the loug bone of each 
half, 80 as to be ready for stuffing them. 

Cut truffles in small dice, enough to half fill the feet, and 
put them on the fire in a small saucepan, just covered with 
Madeira wme ; toss and stir till the wme is absorbed and 
nearly boiled away, then add a little gravy, stir half a 
minute, take from the fire and let cool. When cold, fill 
each half foot till half fiill, and finish with sausage-meat ; 
then dip in butter and egg, roll in crumbs, broil and serve 
as the above. 

They may be filled with truffles only, and served with 
meatrjeUy. 

PIG»S HEAD. 

Soak in water and clean it well ; take all the bones 
and flesh out ; then cut the flesh and about one pound 
of salt pork in strips, which you put inside of the head, 
well mixed with salt, pepper, half a dozen middling-sized 
onions chopped, two teaspoonfiils of chopped parsley, half 
a saltspoonful of allspice, two bay-leaves, two sprigs of 
thyme, a little sage, and the juice of half a lemon; lay it 
in a crockery vessel for from four to six days. Envelop 
the head in a towel, place it in a kettle with eight small 
onions, two carrots cut in pieces, salt, pepper, four sprigs 
of parsley, four of thyme, four bay-leaves, two cloves, and 
a pint of white wine ; cover with water, set on the fire, and 
simmer from six to eight hours ; take from the fire and 



234 FOSK. 

drain, take the towel off and drain again till dry and cold 
Serve it with sprigs of green parsley around. 

WUd'JBoar like, — ^Prepare, stof^ cook, and allow it to 
cool as the one preceding; then place it on an oval dish, the 
ears up, with one or two skewers to hold them in place, 
and also two or three decorated skewers in the middle of 
the head and between the eyes — ^not across, hut lengthwise. 
Glaze it with essence of bee^ by means of a brash ; make 
eyes with meat-jelly, which you cnt with a vegetable spoon, 
and imitate the tongae, teeth, and tnsks with butter colored 
with cochineal and kneaded with flour. Cover the back 
part with jelly and skewers ornamented with flowers or 
slices of truffles, or with both. Some jelly, chopped, 
may also be placed all around, and flowers in the ears and 
on the eyes. It is served as an entrSef or for supper, lunch, 
or breakfast. 

PIG'S KIDNETa 
Prepare, cook, and serve like calf s kidneys, 

PIG'S TAIL. 
Prepare, cook, and serve like pig's ears. 

PIG'S TONGUE, 

Prepare, cook, and serve Hke beef tongue. 

Bead-cheese. — Soak a pig's heild in cold water for two 
or three hours, clean, and then cut the whole of it, ears 
and tongue included, in strips one or two inches long, and 
then put the whole with about two pounds of salt pork, 
cut in strips also, in a crockery bowl, season with salt, 
pepper, chopped onion, chopped parsley, thyme, bay-lea^ 
and sage, chopped also, the juice of a lemon, and leave 
thus for about two or three days, turning it over occi^ 



235 

nonally. Then pat the mixtoie in a monld or wrap it in 
a towel and boil till done. It must be immersed in the 
water. 

Some beet or sheep^s tongac, together with the flesh 
of chicken, may be added to the head. 

When codced wad cold, if there are any empty placesi 
they may be filled with meat-jelly. 

It is served at late suppers, or at lanch and breakfast 
It is always served cold, with parsley aronnd. 

STJCKINaPIG. 

A sncking-pig, to be good, must be fat 

When properly cleaned, and hoofe off, clean the inside, 
eaving the kidneys; skewer it, pat in it half a ponnd of 
batter kneaded with chopped parsley and green onions, 
four or five mushrooms, and two white onions with a clove 
stuck in each ; place it on the spit before a good fire, baste 
often with melted butter first, and then with the drippings, 
and when done serve on a vinaigrette, 

. Some truffles may be added to the seasoning, if handy ; 
it ^ves it a good taste. 

Baked. — Stuff it as the above, place it in a baking- 
pan with just cold water enough to cover the bottom of 
the pan ; put it in a quick oven, baste often, and when 
done serve with a rSmolade or vinai^ette sauce. 

When roasted or baked, place it on a dish with slices 
of truffles, mushrooms, and parsley all around. Bun some 
skewers through slices of truffles and whole mushrooms, 
and plant them in it like the one represented in the cut 
on the following page. 

A small red apple is placed in the mouth after it is 
cooked, to make room for which a stone is placed in 



the month before cooMng it, in order to keep the n 
open. It IB served as warm oa poerablo. 



Boned. — A moking-pig can be boned and filled jast 
the same as a tnrkej, and cooked and served alike abo. 



POULTRY. 



Chioxshs, ducks, tarkeys, and geese most be killed not 
.ess tban twenty^bur koors, and not more than three days 
in summer, nor less tban two days nor more than six days 
in winter, before cooking them. 

HOW TO PKEPARE AND CLEAN. 

To transport poultry, see Game. 

Poulterers are of the opinion that the best and quick- 
est way of killing poultry is by cutting the throat or the 
tongue. Tie the legs of the bird, hang it by the legs, then 
kill and let bleed. Some cut the head ofif and throw it 
away on the ground, but the poor things do not die so 
fast, and therefore suffer more. 

As soon as the throat or tongue is cut, if the head is 
held down the bird dies sooner, as it allows the blood to 
run more freely, preventing the bird from bending and 
twisting its neck, and also from swallowing its blood. 

It is much better to pick the bird dry. By scalding, 
the skin is spoiled, and very often the flesh of a young and 
tender chicken is spoiled also, being blanched. When 
picked, singe the bird carefully, in order not to bum the 
ikin. 

Split the skin on the back of the neck^ from the body 



288 POULTBY. 

to near the bead ; then detach the skin from the neck bj 
pnllmg it downward and the neck npwafd ; it gives yon 
plenty of room to pull the crop out, which you do. Gut 
the sMn off at about the middle of the neck, and the neck 
close to the body ; that part of the skin of the neck is 
left to cover the place where the neck was cut off, by turn- 
ing it on the back of the bird, and holding it with twine 
in trussing. 

Make an incision under the rump, lengthwise, and 
large enough to draw the bird easily. 

When drawn, wipe the inside of the bird with a towel, 
but do not wash it, except when you have broken the gall- 
bladder. If that should happen, cut the bird in pieces 
.inmiediately and wash well in lukewarm water; never 
roast or prepare whole a bird that has had the gaU-blad- 
der broken in it in drawing it. SauU it or prepare it in 
fricassee. 

If there should be any thing unclean on the outside, 
wipe it off, if possible, or otherwise cut the place off, or 
wash only the unclean place. A washed bird is a very 
inferior article. If you see that a bird cannot be cleansed 
properly except by washing it, do not buy it. 

CHICKEN. 

To select — ^Buy a chicken with white flesh and pale- 
yellow fat. If young, the cock has small spurs, the hen 
has the lower part of the legs and feet rather soft and 
smooth ; those parts are rough in old ones. 

If the rump is hard and stiff, they are fresh enough ; 
but if soft, it is necessary to examine the bird carefully ; 
it might be tainted. 

To <n««.— When prepared as directed for poultry, 



FOULTBT. 239 

pat the bird on the table on its bacl:, and with a chop- 
per or with a round stick flatten the breast-bone, which 
yon break at a single blow if possible ; the bird is much 
more sightly when served. Gut the legs off just above 
the first joints or cut off only half of the claws and trim 
off the ends of the wings. Place the bird on a table, the 
breast up and the rump toward you. Push the legs under 
the skin, so that, by holding them perpendicularly and 
pressing on them, the part from the second to the third joint 
is alongside the chicken, or horizontally. Then run a tjuss- 
ing-needle, with twine attached to it, just above the bone 
of the leg, as near the second joint as possible, on the side 
(toward you) of the bone of the leg that is perpendicular, 
through the leg (which leg is the left one of the bird), 
body, and also through the bird, and at the same place, 
that is, as near the second joint as possible. Turn the 
bird upside down and the neck toward you ; turn the ends 
of the wings on the back, as seen in the cut (p. 240), turn 
the skin of the neck on the back also, between or under 
the wings and in order to cover the place where the neck 
has been cut off, then run the needle again through the 
right wing, the skin of the neck and part of the body, 
and through the other wing. Tie the ends of the twine 
fast together. 

As it is, the legs of the bird, when on its back, are 
pointing upward. Bend them gently down till they are 
perpendicular and as seen in the cut, run the trussing- 
needle through both and also through the body, above 
the bones of the legs and under the end of the breast-bone ; 
run it agiun the other way, but under the bones of the legs, 
tie the two ends of the twine together, and you have a 
bird trussed exactly like the one represented in the cut on 
next page. 



Another way to truss ia, to cut only half of the claws, 
instead of cutting the legs at the first joint; but, to tmsB 
thns, the first joint must be partly cut aa represented be- 
low. If tiie uerre were not cut, it would contract in cook- 
ing, and instead of being straight, the legs would point 
upward. 




A bird stuffed id trussed exactly in the same way si 
above, with the exception that the skin of the neck must 
be sewed np with a trussing-needle before commendng to 
truss the l^s, and the incision must also be sewed np as 
soon as filled and before trussing. 

The twbe used to sew and truss the bird is removed 
just before dishing it. 

Some experiments have beeu made lately, in France, 
to find out the best way to kill chickens and make them 
tender. Those Hlled by electricity were ipore tender than 
any other, but they must be cooked immediately, as they 
become tainted in a very short time. 



POUI-TBT. 241 

To Uanc&.-— 'When cut in pieces as directed, throw it in 
boiling water to which a little salt has been added ; boil 
two minutes and drain. 

To cut. — ^To maike a chicken saute or in fricassee, it is 
generally cnt into eight pieces ; the two legs, the wings, 
one piece of the breast*bone, and three pieces of the back- 
bone. The ends of the wings, the lower part of the legs 
after being skinned by wanning them, the neck, gizzard, 
heart, kidneys, and head, are put in the soup-kettle. Gen- 
erally the bones of the 1^. above the second joint are re- 
moTcd by breaking them with the back of a knife just 
above the second joint The ends of the small bones of 
the three pieces of the back-bone are trimmed off 
also. 

To disk and serve. — Dish the pieces in the following 
order : the neck, gizzard, the fore part of the back and the 
low part of the legs in the middle ; then one leg on each side 
of the dish, with one wing beside each, then the breast 
and .hind part of the back, and lastly the ends of the wings 
at the top. If cut in eight pieces only, place the breast- 
bone on the middle of the dish, the hind part of the back- 
bone at one end of it and the two others at the other end; 
the legs and wings on each side. 

Boiled, — ^A chicken is boiled only when it is an old 
one, whose tenderness is doubtfdl, and which is not needed 
to make broth or eonsommS. 

Clean, prepare, and truss it as directed for poultry. 
Brown the bird in a saucepan with about one ounce of but- 
ter, then half cover it with cold water ; season with a few 
slices of onion, same of carrot, two cloves, two stalks of 
parsley, salt and pepper. Boil gently about one hour and 
a half, and when done, dish the bird, strain the sauce over 
it, and serve warm. 

11 



242 POULTBY. 

If the sauce boils away, add a little cold water; and if 
there is any fat on it^ skim it off. 

An old chicken may be cooked especially to make a 
salad. 

Boned. — ^Pick, bone, fill, cook, and serve a boned 
chicken exactly like a boned turkey ; the only difference is^ 
that it requires less filling, being smaller. 

For an extra, legs of large chickens may be boned and 
filled like the chicken, the rest being used for a Mcassee. 

Broiled. — ^Yonng, or what are called sprinp ehidbens, 
are broiled ; an old one wonld not be as good. 

To broil, a chicken is split in two lengthwise, or the 
back only is split, so as to open it Salt both sides and 
butter them slightly, then broil on a good but not sharp 
fire. Serve with a maitre-^Thdiel, piqtiante, or ravigoU 
sauce. 

Broiled htinter4ike, — When cleaned and prepared, split 
the chicken in two lengthwise and place it in a crockery 
dish with the following seasonings: a teaspoonfal of 
parsley chopped fine, a middling-sized onion in slices, 
two cloves, salt, pepper, a tablespoonfal of sweet-oil, and 
the juice of half a lemon. Half an hour after turn the 
chicken over, and after another half hour place the above 
seasonings all around the chicken, fieisten them with paper, 
tie the paper with twine, and broil carefully on a rather 
slow fire, and turning over two or three times. When 
done, remove the paper in which they are enveloped, scrape 
off the slices without scratching the meat, and serve as 
warm as possible with &mattre-d^h6telj ravigote^ or Madeira 
sauce. 

When an older chicken is prepared hunter-like, it is 
generally served with a Tartar sauce. 
Another way. — Clean and prepare a chicken as directed. 



POULTBT. 248 

Cat the neck off, also the legs at the first joint, split the 
breast in two so as to open the chicken, and flatten it with 
a chopper. Pat abont two ounces of batter in a saace< 
pan and set it on the fire ; when melted, add a teaspoonfol 
of chopped parsley, stir for half a minnte with a wooden 
spoon, then pat the chicken in with salt and pepper ; when 
about half fried on one side, turn it over and half fry the 
other side ; then take off the chicken, roll it in chopped 
parsley and bread-crumbs mixed together, broil it properly 
and serve on a Tartar sauce. 

A chicken broiled either way above described may 
also be served on a Bechamel or on a cream sauce. 

Croquettes. — The proportions that we give below are 
for half a middling-sized chicken. 

A chicken may be cooked especially to make cr(h 
quettes, but it is generally made with cold meat 

Chop the meat fine. Chop fine also half a middling- 
sized onion ; fry it with one ounce of butter, then add 
half a tablespoonful of flour, stir for half a minute, then 
add also the chopped meat and a little over a gill of broth, 
salt, pepper, a pinch of nutmeg, stir for about two minutes, 
take from the fire, mix two yolks of eggs with it, put back 
on the fire for one minute, stirring the while ; lastly you 
add four mushrooms chopped, or two truffles, chopped also, 
or both, according to taste ; do not put back on the fire, 
but turn the mixture into a dish, spread it and put it away 
to cooL 

When perfectly cold, mix it well, as the upper part is 
more dry than the rest ; put it in parts on the paste-board, 
about a tablespoonful for each part Have bread-crumbs 
on the paste-board, roll each part of the shitpe you wish ; 
either round like a small sausage, or -flat, or of a chop- 
shape ; then dip each croquette or part in beaten egg, roll 



844 POULTBY. 

ia bread-crambs again) and fry in hot f&t {See Fet* 

ING.) 

The best way to shape theniy is to roll each part round 
first with a few bread-crumbs, then with a knife smooth 
both ends, while with the left hand you roll them gently^ 
and if wanted flat, strike gently on them with the blade 
of a knife. If wanted of a chop-shape, when flat^ shape 
with the hands and strike again to flatten them. 

Croqttettes are made with any kind of cold meat. 

In Fricassee. — Clean, prepare, and cut as directed. If 
the flesh is not white, blanch it. Put it in a saucepan, 
cover it with broth or cold water (broth is better than 
water), set it on the fire, and add one onion whole, taid if 
covered with water, add also a bunch of seasonings, com- 
posed of three stalks of parsley, one of thyme, a bay-lea^ 
and one clove, boil gently till done. Put about two ounces 
of butter in a saucepan with one tablespoonful of flour, set 
on the fire, stir and mix while the butter is melting ; then 
turn the broth or water in which the chicken has been 
cooked into this pan through a strainer, add salt, six mush- 
rooms sliced, then the pieces of chicken ; give one boil, 
dish the pieces as directed, mix a yolk of egg in the sauce, 
turn it over the chicken, and serve with or without a border 
of paste. 

Border of Paste, — ^Knead well together, so as to make 
a rather thick paste, two whites of eggs with flour ; spread 
it with a rolling-pin in a long strip about two inches and 
a half broad and one-flfth of an inch thick. Trim the sides 
if not straight; cut three rowB of holes in the middle with 
a fruilrcorer, then cut the. strip of paste in two, length- 
wise and in the middle of the middle row of holes. Out 
it again across in pieces about three or four inches long* 
Put it in a warm place to dry till hard enough to keep in 



FOULTBT* 



245 



■hape and still be pliable ; wimn tbe disli on wbich yon 
wish to place it ; beat tbe wMte.of an egg just a little with a 
piacb of si^ar, glaze the straight side of the paste with it ; 
place it all around and on the border of the dish with the 
dentilated side up. Place the pieces of chicken inside of 
the border as directed above, and serve. 

The cut below represents the border. One, Oy is the 
border before being cut in two, and b when cut 



o 


O 


o 




O 


O 


o 




O 


O 


o 


• 


O 


o 


o 




O 


o 


o 




O 


o 



o 


3 


o 


) 


o 


) 


o 


) 


o 


) 


o 



rC 



It may seem difficult to place the border at first, but 
It wil be easily done after having tried once or twice, and 



246 FOITLTBY. 

following the directions prcYionaly given. It is better to trj 
when not in a harry and before being wanted ; that is, be- 
fore you wish to serve it. The border may be made and 
placed on a dish withont a chicken, it will be better for an 
experiment 

In Frkasaie a la chevcUiere or Pamtenn^.— While the 
chicken is cooking as directed for Jricassie^ prepare a gar- 
niture of chtcken-conibSj and, when the chicken is dished, 
place the garniture aU around it, and serve warm. 

A la Franfaise, — ^While the fricassie is being made, 
prepare a garniture of mushrooms or one of truffles, or 
both. 

Dish the chicken as directed, place a garniture of 
mushrooms or one of truffles^ or both, tastefully all around, 
and serve warm* 

When a fricassie is made for several persons, with 
two, three, four, or more chickens, three garnitures may be 
placed around the same dish, and, when carefully and taste- 
fully arranged, it makes a sightly one. 

The three garnitures are, generally, of chicken-combSj 
mushrooms, and truffles; they may be also of chicken- 
eomhs, quenelles of chicken, and croutons; or, of Jlnanciere, 
truffles, and chicken^omhs ; or a boiled craw-fish here and 
there, and two of any of the above-mentioned garnitures. 

Instead of a garniture, it may be served with a border 
of rice. (See Rice in Bobber.) 

A la financiere, — This is a fricassee of chicken servci 
with a financiere garniture. 

Au supreme, — Chicken, or rather chickens, au supreme 
is a fricassee made with the breasts of chickens only. 
Each side of the breast-bone is carefully detached in two 
k>ng pieces called fillets ; so that, with two chickens, there 
ire eight pieces. 



POULTRY. 247 

To detach thein properly, split the skia right on the 
breast-bone from the neck to the romp, then poll it off on 
both sides so as to have the whole breast skinned. Take 
hold of one wing with the left hand, and, with a sharp 
knife in the right, split or cut the joint off carefully, we 
mean the third joint of the wing, or that near the body ; 
as soon as the joint is cut, by merely raising the back of 
the knife, leaviug the edge on the cut joint and pressing 
gently on the chicken, you easily pull off the larger part 
of the half breast ; detach Ihe end of the other half with 
the point of the knife and pull it off also. 

Do the same for the other side. 

When the breasts or fillets are thus detached, prepare 
them as chicken in friccusiey and serve with a border of 
paste, or with one of rice, as directed in the receipts 
above, and serve warm. 

What is left of the chickens is put in the broth-kettle, 
or used to make cornammS, 

Another mprime, — Detach the breasts of two chick- 
ens as above directed, then prepare the eight pieces or 
fillets as directed for chicken saufS, Ten minutes before 
taking from the fire, add and mix with the whole two or 
three truffies, weighing at least six ounces, and sliced ; 
finish the cooking, and serve. 

To serve. — ^Dish the pieces tastefully and accordmg to 
&ncy, and put the dish away in a warm place, then mix 
a suprime sauce with what you have left in the pan, sauce, 
truffles, etc., boil the whole till rather thick, stirring con- 
tinually while it is boiling, turn over the pieces of chicken, 
and serve. The eujprime sauce used in that case is gen- 
erally made with very rich chicken gravy. 

Chickens au mprime is considered a very recherchS 
dish, and it is a rather expensive one. For a grand dinner, 



248 pouz.isr. 

ihe breasts of six chickens are used, and all the other parts 
of the chicken are used to make chicken gravy with rich 
broth, and that gravy is, in its tarn, nsed to make the 
9uprime sauce that is mixed with the liquor in which the 
ebicken has cooked* 

The broth used to 9aut4 the chicken is generally rich« 
and very often two pounds of truffles are used with six 
chickens. 

A la Baurgtuiffnanne. — ^Tbis is a fiicaaiSe also, but 
instead of covering the chicks with broth or w^ter, it ia 
covered with white wine. 

Proceed, for the rest, and serve as Jnea994e, 

With Carrots. — ^While you are cooking a chicken m 
JricassSe^ prepare a diah of carrots au jtu or glazed^ for 
ornamenting the dish ; cut the carrots with a vegetable 
spoon before cooking them. 

Dish the chicken as directed, place the carrots taste- 
folly all around the meat, and serve warm. This dish 
was devised by a monk, and is often called h la Saint 
Lambert, 

A la iSoya/e.-— This is nearly the same as au suprime ; 
the only difference is, that the pieces of breast or fillets are 
larded with salt pork, and then cooked, served and deco* 
rated the same as described for au 9upr$m$, 

Marengo, — Clean, prepare, and cut up the chicken as 
tot fricaesie. Put in a stewpan five teaspoonfuls of sweet* 
oil, and set on a good fire ; when hot, put the chidken in 
with salt and pepper ; turn over once in a while, till every 
piece is of a golden color, and nearly cooked, when add 
two sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a bay-leaf^ and one 
clove, tied together with twine ; add also three or four 
mushrooms cut in slices, and if handy three or four truf- 
fles also cut in slices ; when the whole is cooked, dish the 



ForLFBT; 249 

pieces of chicken thns : the neck and gizzard, with the 
fore part of the back, and the lo# part of the legs in the 
middle, one leg on each side of the dish with one wing 
beside each, then the breast and hind part of the bacl^ 
and the ends of the wings at the top. Have an Italian 
tance ready, poor it on the chicken, place on the whole 
the pieces of mushrooms and troffles, also some erouUmt 
fried in batter, and serve. 

With Green P<!a«.<— Olean, prepare, and truss the bird 
as directed for poultry, then cook it whole as a stewed 
chicken above. When done, dish the chicken, place peas 
k PAnglaiee all around, strain the sauce over the whole, 
and senre. 

Larded with Truffles. — Glean, prepare, and truss a fat 
chicken. Make about two dozen small pegs, with truffles, 
about half an inch long and one^ighth of an inch in di- 
ameter. Take a skewer, make a hole in the flesh of the 
breast of the chicken, and put a truffle-peg into it. Put a 
dozen pegs in the same way on each side of the breast- 
bone, and cook and serve the chicken. It is either boiled, 
stewed, or roasted, and served as directed for either. 

With Tarragon. — ^Proceed as for a stewed chicken, 
with the exception that it is cooked whole after being 
trussed as directed for poultry, and after having stuffed it 
with two ounces of butter kneaded with half a dozen 
stalks of tarragon chopped fine. Serve with a few staLka 
of tarragon around the dish. 

Hoaeted. — ^Clean, prepare, and truss the chicken as 
directed. Place it on the spit slightly salted and buttered 
all around, or envelop it in buttered paper, or merely 
cover the breast with thin slices of salt pork tied with 
twine. Baste often, at first with melted butter, and then 
with the drippings. 
11* 



250 POULTET. 

If the bird has been enyeloped with paper, the kttef 
must be removed about ten minutes before taking the 
chicken from the fire ; do the same with the slices of salt 
pork* 

It takes from twenty-five minutes to one hoar to roast 
a chicken, with a good fire. The time depends as much 
on the quality of the bird as on the size. With a skewer 
or a small knife, or merely by pressing on it with the fin- 
gers, any one can learn how to tell when done, after having 
roasted only two or three. Even by the look of it, many 
persons can tell. 

With Water-cress. — ^Dish the chicken when roasted, 
put fresh water-cress all around, remove the fat from the 
gravy, which you turn over the whole ; add salt and pepper 
to taste, a little vinegar or lemon-juice, and serve warm. 

With 5at«»«.^When roasted, serve with the following 
sauces : sauhisej tarragon^ oyster^ tomato^ and Proven^le. 

With Garnitures. — ^Dish the bird when roasted as 
directed, and place one of the following garnitures around, 
and serve warm : quenelles of chicken or of veal. Mace- 
doine, and cauliflowers. 

With Macarom. — Spread four ounces of macaroni au 
jus on a dish, place the roasted chicken on it, and serve 
the whole warm. 

With Butter. — It may be served with its gravy and 
craw-fish or lobster-butter. 

With Chestnuts. — ^When dished, surround the chicken 
with chestnuts glazed, and serve. 

With Pigeons. — Dish the bird, place four roasted 
pigeons around, one at each end and one on each side ; 
fill the intervals with green peas au jus, and serve warm. 

All the above may be decorated with skewers. Run 
the skewer in a chestnut and then in a craw-flsh ; or, in a 



POULTRY. 251 

fumdie and then in a chestnut or craw-fish ; or, in a 
chickenrcombf and in a qiLeneUe^ and stick it on the chick- 
en. Two skewers only for a chicken make a fine decora- 
tion. Slices of truffles, of mushrooms^ and chickenrcombs^ 
make fine as well as delicipas decorations. 

Baked* — Pnt the chicken in a baking-pan, after being 
cleaned, prepared, and trussed. Salt and butter the breast, 
which must be upward, place a piece of buttered paper 
on it, and a little cold water in the bakepan. Set it in a 
warm, but not too quick oven; baste often with the 
liquor in the pan. If the water and juice are absorbed 
by the heat, add' a little cold water, so as to have liquor to 
baste with. Remove the paper about ten minutes before 
taking from the oven. It takes about forty minutes to 
cook a chicken of middle »ze. 

Serve a baked chicken with sauces and garnitures^ and 
decorated the same as if it were roasted, and as described 
in the above receipts. 

SautS. — After being cleaned and prepared as directed, 
cut the chicken in pieces as for fricassSe, Put it in a 
saucepan with about an ounce of butter ; set on the fire, 
stir now and then till it is of a golden color and pour off 
the fat, if any is in the saucepan. Add a tablespoonful of 
flour and stir half a minute, then add also broth enough 
to nearly cover the meat, half a pint of white wine, a 
bunch of seasonings composed of four stalks of parsley, 
one of thyme, half a bay-leaf, and one clove, the four tied 
together with twine ; add salt, and one onion whole. Boil 
gently till done. Ten minutes before serving, add half a 
dozen mushrooms. 

Dish the pieces of chicken as directed for fricassee, 
place the mushrooms over them, strain the sauce all over, 
and serve warm. 



252 FOULTBT. 

If the chicken is done before the sauce is redacodoris 
rather thick, dish the meat and put it away in a warm 
place, boil the rest slowly till reduced, and then tarn it 
orer the meat Serve with or without a border, as in a 
fricassie. Truffles may be used instead of mushrooms^ 
if handy, or liked Water may be used instead of broth, 
but it is inferior. 

Another. — ^To be good iouU^ the chicken must h% 
young and tender. Glean, prepare, and cut as directed. 
Put about one ounce and a half of butter in a frying* 
pan, set it on the fire, and when melted put the pieces of 
chicken in, stir now and then till all tibe pieces hare a 
golden hue ; add a tablespoonful of flour, stir again fov 
about one minute ; then add also salt and pepper, half a 
pint of broth, or one gill of broth and one gUl of white 
wine ; boil gently for fire or six minutes. Add again a 
teaspoonfiil of parsley chopped fine, five or six mushrooms 
cut in slices, keep it boiling gently till done, and serve 
warm. 

If the sauce is boiling away, or is found too thick, add 
a little broth. Use Champa^ne^ Sctuiemey or Catawba 
wine. It is much better with wine than without. 

Another, — Clean, prepare, and cut the chicken as for 
Jrioasaie. Put it in a saucepan with about an ounce of 
butter, set on the fire, stir once in a while till all the pieces 
are of a fine golden color; then pour off the fat that may 
be in the pan. Sprinkle a tablespoonful of flour all over it, 
and stir for about half a minute, then add three or four 
shallots, or two or three small green onions, chopped fine,f 
parsley, and three or four mushrooms, both cut in smaD 
pieces, a bunch of seasonings composed of four sprigs of 
parsley, one of thyme, a bay*leaf, and one dore, salt^ and 
pepper. 



vovJjTkt. 258 

Stir often till cooked, and serve with a few drops of 
emon-jnice sprinUed on it wben dished. 

Dish as directed for firieassie. 

Stewed* — ^Clean, prepare, and cnt the chicken iu pieces 
as for /rictiseee. Brown them in a saucepan with abont one 
onnce of butter, then take the pieces off, add half a table- 
spoonfol of flour to the butter, stir for one minute, then 
add also three or four mushrooms in slices, a small onion, 
and half a dozen sprigs of pan^ey chopped fine, slir for 
two or three minntes, then cover with half a pint of white 
wine and the same of broth, boil for ten minutes, put the 
pieces of chicken back into the pan, boil gently till done^ 
and serve warm as it is. 

The pieces of chicken are dished as directed for 
frieaesie. 

Stuffed with Bread, — Soak stale bread in cold water, 
and then squeeze the water out of it Put one ounce of 
butter in a saucepan and set it on the fire ; as soon as 
melted, add one middlingH9ized onion chopped fine, and 
stir till it turns rather yellow, when add the bread, stir 
two minutes ; add again salt, pepper, a pinch of nutmeg, 
two or three tablespoonfiils of broth ; stir again two or 
three minutes, take from the fire, mix in it a yolk of egg, 
put back on the fire for half a minute, stirring the while, 
take off again, add a tea^oonful of chopped parsley, and use. 
Fill the crop (we mean the place where the crop was) and 
also the body or inside of the bird with the above mixture, 
truss it as directed; roast or bake it, and serve with the 
gravy. 

Stuffed with Sausape-meat-^^ei a saucepan on the 
fire with about half an onnce of butter in it ; when melted 
add an onion chopped fine, stir, and, when nearly fried, 
add also the heart and liver of the bird, chopped fine, foar» 



854 FOULTBT. 

six, or eight ounces of sausage-meat (according to the 
size of the bird), stir for about twelve minutes, take from 
the fire, mix a yolk of e^ with it, also four or fiye mush • 
rooms chopped, or one or two tmfiles, chopped also, put 
back on the fire for five minutes, stirring the while, take 
from the fire again, fill the prepared bird with the mixture, 
and as abore, roast or bake it, and serve it with its gravy* 

Stuffed with Chestnuts. — ^Boast chestnuts and skin 
them, removing also the white envelope that is under the 
outside skin. Fill the inside of a cleaned and prepared 
chicken till half fiill, add about one and a half ounces of 
butter, finish the filling ; truss, roast or bake as directed, 
and serve the bird with its gravy. 

Stuffed with Truffles. — ^The truffles, being preserved, 
do not require any preparation, half a pound is enough for 
a middling-sized chicken ; it is not necessary to put any 
where the crop wa& 

Salt and pepper the inside of the bird, and put in it also 
about a teaspoonfiil of parsley chopped fine, then the 
troffles; sew the incision made to draw it; truss it as 
directed, and roast or bake. 

The satMj stewed. — ^When stufied, put four ounces of 
salt pork cut in dice in a saucepan, with slices of onion 
and carrot, place the chicken on them, season with four 
stalks of pardey^ one of thyme, a bay-leaf, and one clove 
tied together; half cover it with broth and white wioe, 
of equal parts, set on the fire, boil gently till done, turning 
it over several times. Dish the bird, strain the sauce over 
it, and serve warm. 

After being stuffed with truffles, it may be kept two 
days before cooking. 

Cold. — ^What is left from the previous day's dinner is 
known under the name of cold meat 



POULTRY. 255 

For about half a chicken put one ounce of butter in a 
aaucepan, and, when melted, torn into it a finamdht gaiv 
nitnre, and half a pint of Madeira wine, boil gently about 
eight minutes, put the cold chicken cut in pieces in it ; 
leave just long enough on the fire to warm it, and serve. 

If not a roasted or broiled chicken, or part of either, 
you merely warm it in the bain-marie if possible, or on 
the fire, and serve as it is. 

If roasted or broiled, it is served in hlanquettej thus : 

Cut up the meat in slices, have in a stewpan and on a 
good fire a piece of butter the size of two walnuts ; when 
melted, sprinkle in it a pinch of flour, stirring with a 
wooden spoon the while ; then pour in also, little by Kttle, 
two gills of warm broth, same of boiling water, half a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and two or three 
small onions fried in butter ; boil fifteen minutes. After 
that time subdue the fire, place the slices of chicken in 
the pan, and serve as it is when well warmed. 

Instead of onions, slices of pickled cucumbers may be 
used. 

Another way, — Cut up the chicken or part of it as for 
fricassSe, Put a little butter in a stewpan and set on the 
fire ; when melted, sprinkle in it a little flour, half a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, same of chopped mushrooms, 
stir with a wooden spoon the while, two or three minutes 
after which add two gills of white wine, boil the whole fif- 
teen minutes; then subdue the fire, put the pieces of 
chicken in the pan, and serve as it is when warm. 

It may also, after it is cut up, be served cold, with an 
oil, piquante, or poivrade sauce. 

The same, in Fricaseie, — An old chicken that has been 
used to make broth, either alone or with beef, when cool, 
or the next day, may be prepared just as a spring chicken 
in fricassee. 



256 FOUI«TBT« 

In Salad. — ^It is made with cold chicken, toasted c 
baked, with a whole one or part of it 

Cat all the meat in dice and pnt it in a howL 

Cat jost as mach roasted or baked veal in dice also, 
and pat with the chicken. 

Cat also aboat as mach table celery as chicken, which 
pat with the meat also. Season with salt, pepper, yinegar, 
and veiy little oil ; stir and mix the whole well Add 
also some lettace, and mix again gently* Pat the mixture 
then on a platter, making a small moond with it ; spread 
a Majonnaise-eance all oyer it; decorate with hard-boiled 
eggs, cat in foar or eight pieces, lengthwise; also with 
centre leaves of lettace, capers, boiled beets, and eren 
slices of lemon. 

A hardrboiled e^ is cat across in two, then with a 
sharp knife scallop each half, invert them and ran a smaH 
skewer throagh both, so as to lieave the smaller end of 
both halves in the middle and teaching; place the egg 
right in the middle of the dish, when the Mayonnaise is 
spread all over ; plant the centre leaves of a head of lettace 
in the middle of the upper half of the egg, with a few 
capers in it, and serve. 

Some use mustard with a chicken salad ; it is really 
wrong, because chickens and MayonnaiseHsaace are too 
delicate to use mustard witii them. 

CAPOK. 

A caponed chicken is cleaned, prepared, cooked, and 
served in the same and every way as a common chicken. 

A capon is almost always fat, larger than an ordinary 
chicken, and has a more delicate and tender flesh. 

Boasted and served in the different ways described for 
chicken, it makes a recherehi dish, also when stuffed with 
fhestnuts or truffles, as a common chicken. 



FOUXXBT. 267 

i?ot2M?.— dean and prepiore as directed above ; rub tlie 
fleshy part with lemon, envelop it with slices of bacon, 
place it in a stewpan with one sprig of parsley, one of 
thyme, a bay-leaf, one clove, a small carrot, two onions, 
sa.t, and pepper ; cover with half water and half broth, 
and set on a moderate fire. When cooked, take the 
capon oft, place it on a dish, and set it in a warm place ; 
then boil the sance iill it is rather thick, wBen strain it on 
the capon, and serve. 

The mmey with JS^e.-*— When cleaned and prepared as 
above, yon place &e capon in a stewpan, cover it with 
water, add one glass of broth, a bay-lea^ one clove, a 
sprig of parsley, one of thyme, a small carrot, two onions, 
salt, and pepper ; boil ten minntes, then add also about 
four ounces of rice, soaked in lukewarm water before nsing 
it, and let simmer for two hours. Take the capon off, 
and in case the rice should not be found to be cooked 
enough, finish the cooking of it; then take off clove, 
parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, carrot and onions, pour the re- 
mainder on the capon, and serve. 

TURKEY. 

Tame and wild are prepared and served alike. 

The legs of a young hen-turkey are black ; the cock 
has small spurs, and also black legs. 

The shorter the neck the better and fatter the bird. 

An old hen has red and rough legs; the cock also has 
long spurs. 

The fatter they are the better ; they cannot be too fat 
The broader the breast the better; the skin must be 
white. 

It is fresh enough as long as the legs are not stiff. 

Boiled, — Glean and prepare turkev as directed foi 
poultry. 



258 POULTBT. 

Put in a Btewpan, laige enoDgb to hold a turkeyy a 
piece of batter the size of a dock's egg, also a teaspoon- 
fill of chopped parsley, same of green onions, and four or 
five mushrooms ; set it on a good fire, and, as soon as the 
butter is hot, lay the turkey in ; turn over now and then 
tin of a fine golden color, then take it from the pan, cover 
the breast with slices of bacon tied with twine, and put it 
back in the pan ; add a pinch of allspice, six small onions, 
salt, pepper, a glass of white wine, and a pint of broth ; 
simmer till cooked, dish it, strain the sauce on it, and 
serve. It takes about two hours to cook a turkey of mid- 
dling size. A little warm broth should be added, in case 
the sauce boils away during the cooking. 

Boasted. — Clean, prepare, and truss a turkey as 
directed for poultry, and, if the turkey is not fat, the breast 
may be larded with salt pork. Place it on the spit be- 
fore a sharp fire, basting often with melted butter at first, 
and then with the drippings. It may be enveloped in 
buttered paper and tied with twine before placing it on 
the spit ; the paper is removed ten or fifteen minutes be- 
fore taking from the fire ; serve with the gravy, after hav- 
ing skimmed the fat o£ 

Some fresh water-cress is placed all around it^ and on 
which you sprinkle vinegar or lemon-juice. 

A turkey may be served in every way as a roasted 
chicken — with sauces, garnitures, and decorated with 
skewers. 

Baked, — ^When cleaned, prepared, and trussed, put the 
turkey in a baking-pan, spread a little butter on it, put a 
little cold water in the pan, the depth of about two-eighths 
of an inch, sprinkle salt all over, place a piece of buttered 
paper on it, and put in a quick oven. Baste often and 
turn the bird over and round, if necessary^ It takes fix>m 



FOULTBT. 259 

one lionr and a half to two hoon to cook a turkey, ac- 
cording to fflze, quality, and also according to the degree 
of heat. 

It is served with the gravy only, after having removed 
the fat, or with sauces, garnitures, and decorations, de- 
scribed for roasted chicken. 

Oyster-Sauce. — ^When roasted or baked as directed, 
serve warm with an oyster-sauce. 

With Currant Jdly. — ^Boast or bake it, and then serve 
it with currant-jelly. 

It is also served with a cranbeny-sauce. 

Steused. — ^An old turkey is more tender stewed than 
cooked in any other way. 

The fleshy parts may be larded with salt pork, if found 
too lean. 

Put in a large stew-kettle half a pound of bacon cut 
in slices, four ounces of knuckle of yea], three sprigs of 
parsley, two of thyme, a bay-lea^ six small onions, one 
carrot, cut in four pieces, three cloves, cue clove of garlic, 
salt, pepper, and then the turkey ; wet with a pint of 
white wine, same of broth, cover as nearly air-tight as 
you can, place in a moderately heated oven or on a 
moderate fire, let dmmer (not boil) about two hours and 
a hal^ then turn it over, put back on the fire or in the 
oven for another two hours and a half, after which dish 
the turkey ; strain the sauce and put it back on the fire 
to reduce it to a jelly, which you spread on it, and serve. 

Many eonnoiueure prefer the turkey served thus when 
cold ; it does not cost any thing to try it, and it is very 
handy for a grand dinner, as it may be prepared one or 
two days in advance, and is just as good, if kept in a 
refrigerator. 

Stuffed with Cheetnuts. — ^Roast chestnuts enough to 



260 FOITLTBT. 

fill the bird. SMn them and Temove alao the white skin 
nnder the outer one. Fill the tnrkej with them, aftei 
haying cleaned and prepared it ; when about half fall, put 
in it also from four to sis ounces of butter; finish the 
filling with chestnuts ; sew it up, truss it as directed, and 
roast or bake it Serre with the gravy only. 

Stuffed fffith Truffles. — Chop fine about lour ounces of 
truffles, and put them in a stewpan witb about a pound of 
salt pork cut in dice ; set it on a moderate fire ; add salt^ 
pepper, a little grated nutmeg, a bay-lea^ a pinch of allspice^ 
and a pincb of dried thyme; when hot, add also about 
two pounds of truffles, boil fifteen minutes, tossing now 
and then, and take firom the fire. When nearly cool, put 
the whole in the turkey and sew it up ; leave it thus, if 
fresh, four days in winter and one or two in summer; if 
not fresh, leave it a shorter time. 

jRoast or hake it as directed above, and serve with the 
gravy, freed from the fat part This dish is considered ex- 
quisite by epicures. 

Stuffed toiih Sausage-meat — ^Proceed as for chicken 
stuffed, in every particular. 

WUk Salt Pork. — ^Place thin slices of salt pork on 
the breast of a prepared turkey, covering it entirely, and 
festening the slices with twine ; then the turkey is roasted 
or baked, and served with the gravy. The slices may be 
removed a little before taking from the fire, in order to 
color the meat 

Boned. — ^Buy a good turkey, neither too old nor too 
fiit, and picked dry. Singe the bird, but do not draw it 
Cut the neck off about one inch and a half from the body. 
Cut also the wings off just above the second joint, and 
the legs just above the first joint ; the third joint is the 
one nearest the body. Split the akin from the end of the 



POULTRY. 261 

neck to the mmp ; use a nnaU sharp^ointed kuife ; oom* 
mence to ran the knife between the bones and flesh, on 
one side, till yon come to the third joint of the wings and 
legs. By twisting and raising both wing and leg, bat one 
at a time, yon easily crack the joint, and then separate it 
from the body with the knife. Oontinne to ran the knife 
between the bones and flesh, on the same side, till yoa 
eome to the breast-bone. Do the same on the other side. 
Fall oat the crop and cat off the ramp from the body, bat 
without touching the skin, as the ramp mast come off with 
the skin and flesh. Then by taking hold of the bird by 
the neck with the left hand, and palling the skin gently 
down with the right, yon partly uncoyer the upper part 
of the breast-bone ; then again run the knife between that 
bone and the flesh, on both sides, till you come nearly to 
the end or edge of the bone. Then lay the bird on its 
back, have somebody to take hold of it by the neck, har- 
iag the breast of the bird toward you. All algng the edge 
of the breast-bone there is no flesh between the bone and 
the skin. The bird being held as described above, take 
hold of the skin of the neck with your left hand, pulling 
gently downward, and with the knife detaching the skin 
carefully from the bone, the carcass coming off whole. 
Place the bird on the table, the iaside up, pull out the 
bones of the wings and legs, scraping the flesh all around 
80 as to leave it attached to the rest ; puU or scrape off all 
the tendons of the legs ; push legs and wings inside the 
bird ; see that the ramp is clean ; cut off the ring under 
it if necessary. We warrant that anybody, with an ordi 
nary amount of natural capacity, can bone a turkey or 
other bird by following our directions with care. We 
recommend persons doing it for the first time not to 
attempt to do it fiost. Now have at hand about two pounds 



262 POULTRY. 

of sausage-meat seasoned as directed, two pounds ofWded 
bam, lialf a dozen boiled sbeep's tongues or a smoked 
beef tongue (but reaJlj tbe former is better), a pound and 
a balf of salt pork, and balf a pound of truffles sliced 
(the latter if bandy and if liked). Cut the ham, tongues, 
and salt pork in strips about four inches long, one inch 
broad, and a quarter of an inch thick. Spread the bird 
on the table, the inside up aud the rump toward you; 
salt and pepper it ; place three or four slices of salt pork 
here and there on it, then a layer of sausage-meat, strips 
of ham and tongue and salt pork alternately on the sau- 
sage-meat, slices of truffles if used, again sausage-meat, 
ham, etc., till there is enough to fill the bird well ; that is, 
by bringing the two sides of the skin together, giving the 
bird a round form, it is perfectly fall. It is impossible to 
give exact proportions ; it depends not only on the size of 
the bird, but also on the quality and degree of fatness of 
the bird. In two of the same weight, one may require 
more than the other to fill it. When filled, and when the 
two sides of the skin are brought together as described 
above, sew up the cut with a tnissing-needle and twine. 
Wrap up the bird tightly in a towel, tie the towel with a 
string, and run the string all around the towel to prevent 
it from opening at all. Take a kettle or saucepan of an 
oval shape and large enough to hold the bird, put enough 
cold water in it to cover the bird, also all the bones of the 
bird (broken in pieces), a small piece of lean beef, say one 
pound, a few stalks of parsley, two of thyme, two cloves, 
two cloves of garlic, a bay-leaf, twelve pepper-corns, a 
middling-sized carrot sliced, half a turnip, and salt. Set 
on the fire, and at the first boiling put the bird in ; boil 
gently for about three hours if it is a turkey of middling 
size, two hours for a middling-sized chicken. When done 



FOULTBT. 263 

it partly floats ; that is, the upper part is above tbe liqnor. 
Take it from the pan, take the towel off and rinse it is 
cold water ; wrap the bird np in the towel again and in 
the same way as before ; place it on a large dish, with the 
seam or back nnder ; pnt another plate or diah over it with 
a weight on it, and leave thus overnight in a cool place. 
The next morning the bird will be perfectly cold and 
rather flattened ; then remove the towel, also the twine 
with which it has been sewed, place it on the dish on 
which it is to be served, the breast upward ; glaze it with 
essence of beef or glace ; decorate with meat-jelly, and 
serve. 

How to decorate with Jelly. — ^When the jelly is con- 
gealed and can be cnt with a knife, chop some of it on a 
coarse towel and pnt it all around the bird, about half 
an inch thick ; cut some in slices about a quarter of an 
inch in thickness ; cut these again with paste-cutters in 
different shapes, according to fancy, and place it over the 
bird, also according to fancy ; again cut some of it in slices 
about one inch broad, a quarter of an inch thick and of 
any length, and cut out of these last ones pieces of a 
triangular shape, which put all around the border of the 
dish, placed so that one point of each piece is turned 
toward the edge of the dish and the two other points 
touch the other pieces on both sides ; then you have an 
indented border of jelly. When the jelly is fancifully and 
tastefully arranged, it makes a sightly dish. 

It is always served cold for breakfast, lunch, or supper. 

In summer the jelly melts, and cannot be used as a 
decoration. A boned bird is then served without jelly. 
The bird is cut in slices, and some jelly is served with each 
slice. 

Cold. — ^A turkey, being a large bird, is seldom entirely 



264 POUIiTBT. 

eaten the day it ib senred, and yeij often mofe than half 
of it is left for the next day. What is left may be pre- 
pared in different ways. 

In Vinaiffrette* — Oat the flesh in slices and senre them 
with a vinai^tte. It is not understood here for a boned 
turkey, which is always eaten cold, but either a roasted, 
baked, stewed, or stuffed turkey. 

In Croquettes. — ^Proceed in every particular as for 
chicken croquettes. 

In Salad. — A salad of turkey is made also exactly the 
same as a salad of chicken, with cold meat It is covered 
with a Mayonnaise-sauce and decorated in the same way. 

Besides the above ways of preparing cold turkey, it 
may also be prepared as directed for cold chicken in 
general. 

A caponed turkey is prepared as a caponed chickeo« 
boiled or with rice; and also like a turkey, as described 
in the above receipts. They are generally larger, fitter, 
and more tender and juicy than others. They are very 
much appreciated here, and every year more and more are 
supplied, and, as in Europe, the greater the supply the 
better the quality. There is a ready market for caponed 
turkeys in all the large cities of the United States, and 
they command a high price. 

DUOKa 

Ducks and ducklings, tame and wild, are prepared 
alike. To be good, a duck must be &t, be it a canvas- 
hack, qadweU, hlack-duek, garganey, poachard, wood-duch, 
pmtail^ shoveller, spirit-duck, summer-duck, teal, widgeon, 
9heUdrake, or any other. 

How to select. — A young dock has the lower part of 
the legs soft, and the skin between the claws soft also ; 



POULTRY. 26 



K 

%0 



fon will also know if it i» jonng by taking hold of it by 
tbe bill (tbe under bill only), if it breaks or bends, the 
duck is young. 

If the breast of the duck is hard and thick, it is fresh 
enough. 

How to prepare. — A duck is cleaned and prepared as 
directed for poultry. 

Boasted. — Clean, prepare, and truss the duck as a 
chicken, with the exception that the rump is pushed inside ; 
the duck being much longer than a chicken, it is more 
sightly when so trussed. 

Place inside of the duck two sage-leaves, two bay- 
leaves, and two sprigs of thyme, and leave it thus in a cool 
place for two or three hours, and then roast it as directed 
for chicken. 

When roasted, serve it with any of the following gar- 
nitures : cabbage, cauliflower, MaeSdoine, onion, or truffles. 

The fatty part of the gravy or drippings must be care- 
fully and totally removed before turning it over the duck 
and garniture. It takes from thirty to forty minutes to> 
roast 

Baked, — ^When cleaned, prepared, and trussed as di* 
rected for turkeys and chickens, put the duck in a bake* 
pan, salt and pepper it, cover the bottom of the pan with 
cold water, and place it in a rather quick oven. 

A duck, being generally very fat, requires to be turned 
over and over several times and to be basted very often. 
It is not necessary to cover it with buttered paper. In 
case there is much fat in the pan, remove it while it is 
cooking. 

It is served as directed for roast duck, with garnitures. 

When roasted or baked, it is also served with apple 
« cranberry-sauce, or with currant-jelly, 

12 



266 POULTRY. 

With Peas, — ^Cut in dice aboat one ounce of salt pork 
and put it in a saucepan ; set it on the fire, and, as soon 
as the butter is melted, brown in it a duck trussed as 
directed and take from the fire. Put one ounce of butter 
in a saucepan and mix it cold with a tablespoonful of fiour, 
set it on the fire, and, when the butter is melted, put the 
duck in with about a quart of green peas, blanched for 
one or two minutes only ; add about a pint of water or of 
broth, a bunch of seasonings composed of three or four 
stalks of parsley, one of thyme, a bay-leaf, and one clore, 
salt, and pepper; boil gently till the whole is cooked, and 
serve warm. 

Remove all the fat carefully before serving. 

If the water should boil away while it is cooking, add 
a little more. 

With Oranges. — ^Boast or bake a young duck as 
directed, and serve it with carpels of orange all around ; 
and sprinkle some orange-juice all over just before serv- 
ing it. 

With Olives. — ^Roast or bake the duck as directed. 
When done, turn the gravy into a small saucepan with 
about two dozen olives ; stir gently, and keep on the fire 
for about five minutes. Dish the duck, place the olives 
all around; turn the gravy over the whole, and serve 
warm. 

Saute, served with a Border, — ^When cleaned and cut 
in eight pieces as directed, set it on the fire with one 
ounce of butter, stir occasionally till turning brown, then 
pour off the fat from the saucepan, add broth enough just 
to cover the pieces of duck ; also one onion with a clove 
stuck in it, a bunch of seasonings tied with twine and 
eomposod of four stalks of parsley, one of thyme, and a 
bay-leaf, salt, and pepper ; boil gently tiU done. Place the 



POULTET. 267 

pieces of duck inside of a border of rice, strain the sance 
aver the dack only, and serve hot 

The rice must be cooked, moulded, and placed on the 
dish while the duck is cooking, so as to serve the whole 
warm. {See Ricb in Border.) 

To cut — ^A duck is generally cut in eight pieces, the 
two legs and wings, the breast in two, and the back-bone 
in two. 

With Turnips. — ^Truss the duck as directed for birds. 
Put one ounce of butter in a saucepan, set it on the fire, 
and, when melted, put the duck in, turn over now and 
then till it is brown on every side. Then add a piece of 
onion chopped fine, stir, and, when turning brown also, 
add water enough to half cover it; also a bunch of sea- 
sonings composed of three sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, 
a bay-lea^ and a clove ; boil gently till done, when add 
salt to taste. 

While the duck is cooking, cut two turnips in dice or 
m round pieces with a firuit-corer, or with a vegetable 
spoon, set them on the fire with cold water and salt, boil 
till tender, and drain them. 

Put them back on the fire with the sauce or gravy 
irom the saucepan in which the duck has cooked, give 
one boil, dish the duck, place the turnips around) and 
serve. 

Another way, — ^Cut the duck in pieces. Set a sauce- 
pan on the fire with an ounce of butter in it, when melted, 
add half a tablespoon ful of flour, stir, and, when turning 
brown, add half a dozen small turnips or two large ones, 
cut with a vegetable spoon ; stir, and, when they are all 
browned, take them off and brown the pieces of duck ; 
then put the turnips back in the pan, add broth enough 
just to cover the whole ; also two sprigs of parsley, one 



268 POULTET. 

of thyme, a bay-lea^ a dore, salt^ and pepper * boil genUy 
till cooked ; dish the dnck and turnips, turn the sauce 
over them through a strainer, and senre warm. 

Cold. — ^What is left from the preceding day's dinner 
is prepared in salmis. 

Very often a duck is baked, especially to make a 
salmis with it {See Saxmis.) 

Boned, — Bone, fill, cook, and serve as turkey boned. 

Cold duck may also be prepared in croquettes and 
salad, like chicken. 

Stuffed. — ^It is stuffed with sausage-meat and chest- 
nuts, also like a chicken. 

GEE^ AND GOSLINGS— TAME OR WILD. 

A young goose has much down and soft legs of a yel- 
low color ; an old one has little down and rough legs of a 
reddish color. When fresh, the legs are soft ; and stiff and 
dry when not fresh. 

Geese and goslings are prepared, cooked, and served 
like ducks, in the following ways : roasted and baked, and 
served with garnitures, with cranberry-sauce, currant-jelly, 
ftpple-sauce, with a border, olives, oranges, peas, or turnips ; 
in croquettes and in salmis. 

It is boned, cooked, and served, like a boned turkey. 

In Civet — Clean, prepare, and cut the goose in pieces, 
removing most of the fat, and then cook, and serve it like 
rabbit in civet 

It takes a little longer than to cook a rabbit, but 
makes a very good dish. 

When the civet is properly made, it does not taste 
like goose. 

GUINEA-FOWLa 

A young Guincarbird is good, but an old one is hardly 
fit to be eateiu 



FOITLTBT. 369 

Ooinea-fowls are prepared and served like prairie-liena. 

PIGEONa 

The stall-fed or sqnab is prepared the same as the 
irild one. 

To select — ^If the legs are not red, they are young ; 
and if not stiff, they are fresh. When not fresh, the 
romp is of a bluish color. 

Clean and prepare them as directed for fowls. 

Broiled. — Split the backs of the pigeons so as to open 
them, flatten them a little with a chopper. Put two 
ounces of butter (for six pigeons) in a saucepan, and set 
it on a good fire ; when hot, add to it a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley and green onions, salt, and pepper ; then 
the pigeons. When half cooked, take them from the fire, 
roll them in bread-crumbs, place them on the gridiron 
and set on a moderate fire, turn over once or twice, and, 
when done, serve on a tnaitre cThdtelj ptqtionte, or poi- 
vrade sauce. 

Another way. — When cleaned, prepared, and split open 
as directed above, salt and pepper them, grease them 
slightiy with melted butter, by means of a brush ; then 
broil them till underdone, and serve with a maitre cPhdtei 
sauce. 

In Chartreuee.'^K chartreuee with pigeons is made and 
served as a chartreuse of prairie-hens. 

In PapUlotee. — ^When cleaned and prepared as direct- 
ed, bake the pigeons till about half done, then split them in 
two, lengthwise, and then proceed as for veal cutlets in 
papillotes. 

They may be fried with a little butter, instead of baked. 

With Vegetables.^-^leaa and prepare as directed for 
Doultry, four pigeons. Cut them in four pieces each. 



270 POtJLTEY. 

Put in a sancepan two ounces of butter, and set it on 
tbe fire ; when melted, brown the pigeons in it, and tben 
take them from the pan. 

The pigeons being taken off, put into the pan, which 
la kept on the fire, half a carrot and two onions sliced, 
half a turnip, sliced also ; four or five stalks of parsley, one 
of thyme, one of celery, a bay-leaf, two cloves; the latter 
five tied together. Cover the whole with broth or water ; 
boil gently till about half done, then add the pieces of 
pigeons, and salt and pepper; continue boiling till the 
whole is done* 

Dish the pigeons, throw away the seasonings, mash 
the carrot, onions, and turnips through a colander, which 
you mix with the sauce. Place the mixture around the 
pieces of pigeons, and serve warm. 

Stuffed. — ^It is stuffed, cooked, and served like a stuffed 
chicken. 

The aamcj stewed. — Put a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut in a stewpan, and set it on a good fire ; when hot, 
add two ounces of bacon cut in dice, then place in four 
pigeons^ leave thus till of a fine golden color, and then 
take pigeons and bacon off the pan. Put again in the 
stewpan the same quantity of butter as before; when 
melted, sprinkle in, little by little, a teaspoonful of flour, 
stirring with a wooden spoon, and when of a proper thick- 
ness, and of a brownish color, put the pigeons and bacon 
back in, add four small onions, two sprigs of parsley, one 
of thyme, a bay-lea^ a pinch of allspice, salt, pepper, half 
a glass of broth, same of claret wine ; simmer about an 
hour, take off parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, and send to the 
table. 

The same, roasted. — Envelop each pigeon in thin slices 
of bacon tied with twine, place them on a spit before a 



POULTBT, 271 

moderate fire, baste often with tlie drippisga, and, when 
cooked, serve them with the gravy, at the same time 
sprinkling a few drops of lemon-juice on them. It takes 
from thirty to thirty-five minutes to roast them. 

To roast or bake they are trussed like a chicken, as 
seen in the cut below. To carve pigeons is easy, they are 
merely split in two, lengthwise. 




Baked, — ^Place a thin slice of fat salt pork or bacon on 
the breast of each pigeon, after being cleaned, prepared, 
and salted ; place them in a bakepan, on their back ; cover 
the bottom of the pan with cold water and put in a hot 
oven, baste often, and when done serve them with water- 
cress and lemon-juice. 

The pigeons are placed on the dish the same as they 
were in the bakepan ; place water^sress between each, also 
all around and in the middle of them ; sprinkle lemon-juice 
all over, and serve warm. 

With Oreen Peas. — ^When cleaned and prepared, truss 
the pigeons and put them in a saucepan with about two 
ounces of butter for half a dozen, stir now and then till 
turning rather brown all around and take off; then put in 
the saucepan about two ounces of salt pork cut in dice, 
stir, and, when partly fried, take it off also. The pan being 
still on the fire, pat into it a good tablespoonful of flour, 
stir till it turns brown, when you add about a quart of 
broth, stir and mix ; put pigeons and salt pork back into 
the pan, season with a bunch of seasonings, composed of 



272 POTJLTBY. 

half a dozen siaSka of parelej, one of thymey two bay-Ieayes, 
a cloTe, and one clove of garlic. Boil gently till nearly 
half done, and then add a quart of green peas, blanched 
previously ; boil again gently till the whole is done ; re. 
move the bunch of seasonings aud the clove of garlic ; dish 
the pigeons, turn the peas in the same dish, but in the mid« 
die of the pigeons, which can be tastefully placed all 
around the dish ; strain the sauce over the whole, and 
serve warm. 

With Mushrooms, — ^Prepare and truss the pigeons the 
same as for the above, and proceed also as for the above 
in every particular, except that you do not put in the 
saucepan quite as much broth, a pint is sufficient, and boil 
gently till done, but do not add peas. 

Ten minutes before taMug from the fire, add a dozen 
mushrooms, whole or sliced, and half a gill of claret wine, 
if handy. 

Dish the pigeons, place the mushrooms in the middle 
of the dish, strain the sauce over the whole, and serve 
warm. 

Fried, — Take four pigeons, cut each in four pieces, 
put two oimces of butter in a stewpan and set it on the 
fire ; when melted, put the pigeons in with two or three 
sprigs of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a pinch 
of allspice, salt, pepper, and half a pint of broth. Take 
the pigeons off when half cooked, and, as soon as they are 
cool, dip each piece in beaten eggs and roll it in bread- 
crumbs. Strain the butter that may be left in the stew- 
pan, and put it in a frying-pan with about an ounce more, 
and fry the birds for about two minutes ; serve with water- 
cress or parsley all around. 

In Compote, — ^Roast six pigeons as directed. Then cut 
one of them in dice, put it in a mortar and pound it Put 



FOULTET. 273 

Iialf an ounce of batter in a sancepan, and, when melted, fry 
half an onion chopped fine in it ; then add to the ponnded 
pigeon about a gill of gravy, a gill of good broth, salt, pep- 
per, a bunch of seasonings, composed of three stalks of 
parsley, one of thyme, a bay-leaf, and a clove ; also about 
a gill of Madeira wine or white wine, boil gently till re- 
duced about one-third, strain. Put back on the fire, add 
butter, and when melted stir and set it on the comer of 
the range to keep warm while the rest is prepared. Cut 
the other five pigeons in two, lengthwise. Cut ten pieces 
of bread square, or of an oval shape, and about the size of 
a half pigeon, try them with a little butter, and place them 
on a dish. While the bread is frying, put the pigeons in 
an oven to warm them ; place half a pigeon on each slice 
of bread, or one lapping over the other ; have the slices 
and pigeons so arranged that they fill the dish, leaving 
only a small space in the middle, into which you pour the 
sauce ; serve the whole hot. 

In Crapaudine. — When prepared, split open the backs 
of the pigeons ; cut the legs at the first joints and run them 
through the skin so that the ends come out on the inside ; 
dip the birds in beaten eggs, roll them in bread-crumbs, 
and broil them. 

While they are broiling, knead butter, chopped parsley, 
and lemon-juice together; spread some on the pigeons 
when they are dished, and serve warm. 

GIBLETS. 

By giblets are understood the gizzards, heads, legs, 
.ivers, necks, and ends of the wings of chickens, ducks, 
geese, turkeys, and other birds, tame or wild. 

You begin by cleaning them weU, cut off the biUs, 
take the eyes out, warming the legs on live coals, so that 

12* 



274 POITLTEY, 

yoa can take off the outer sidn and spars ; place the gib- 
lets in a tureen, tarn boiling water and a little salt on them, 
leave them thus five or six minutes, then wash well and 
drain them. 

In Fricassee. — ^Put a piece of batter in a stewpan (the 
size to be according to the quantity of giblets you have)^ 
set it on a good fire ; when melted, sprinkle in it^ little by 
little, a teaspoonfal of fiour ; stir the whole with a wooden 
spoon ; when of a proper thickness, and of a brownish 
color, add half a gill of warm broth, same of warm water, 
a sprig of parsley, a small pinch of grated nutmeg, two 
small onions, salt, and pepper ; then the giblets. About 
half an hour after add also two mushrooms, cut in pieces. 
It takes about two hours to cook them properly. Dish the 
pieces, strain the sauce, mix in it one well-beaten yolk of 
&^ 6gg> ^^<^ & ^^^ drops of lemon-juice ; pour it on the 
giblets, place the pieces of mushrooms over the whole, and 
serve. 

The same, stewed, — Put the giblets in a stewpan with 
butter, and set it on a good fire ; when they are of a fine 
yellow color, add one or two sprigs of parsley, a clove of 
garlic, a sprig of thyme, one clove, half a bay-leaf, two 
mushrooms cut in pieces, two small onions, and a pinch 
of flour ; wet with broth, let simmer gently for half an 
hour, and add also two parsnips cut in slices, and pre- 
viously half fried in butter; simmpr again for about an 
hour ; dish the pieces of meat, strain the sauce, put it 
back on the fire to reduce it a little, pour it on the gib- 
lets, place the pieces of mushrooms at the top, and serve 
hot 

SautL — ^They may also be prepared and served as a 
shicken sauti. 



POULTET. 275 

ASPIC OP MEAT. 

Cut four middling-sized onions in slices, lay them in a 
stewpan with a quarter of a pound of hacon (not smoked) ; 
then add about a quarter of a pound of each of the follow- 
ing meats : chicken, game (any kind), mutton, and bee^ 
also a calTs foot split in two, two ounces of rind of bacon, 
two sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, a clove of garlic, two 
carrots cut in two, one clove, and four small onions ; wet 
with half a pint of water, and set on a brisk fire ; cover 
ihe pan welL When nearly cooked, take the grease off 
with a ladle ; add then boiling water enough just to cover 
the whole, and finish the cooking. Strain the juice, skim 
off the fat, if any, and let it cool ; if it is not found clear 
enough when strained, beat well two whites of eggs, put 
them in the stewpan with the juice, set it on a sharp fire 
for about ten minutes, stirring the while, and take from 
the fire ; add to it a few drops of lemon-juice, and strain 
again. 

Put in a mould some of the above juice, about two- 
eighths of an inch in depth ; place the mould on ice, and 
leave till the juice has turned into a jelly. Lay on that 
jelly some of the following meats, free firom bones, and 
not allowing the pieces to touch the sides of the mould : 
chicken, game, tongues of beef^ cal^ and sheep, of all or of 
either of them (the meats must be cooked beforehand). 
Cover the whole with the remainder of the juice, so as to 
have about the same thickness at the top as at the bot" 
torn. Place the mould in a refrigerator to cool, and turn 
into a jelly ; then dip the mould in very warm water, turn 
over on a dish, remove the mould, and you have a fine 
entrie. 



GAME. 



Game, comparatively, is appreciated only tj a few. 

When tlie country was first settled, every one was his 
own provider, and of course game was not sent to a mar- 
ket several hundred miles from the place where it was 
shot or caught But settlement and civilization have the 
same effect on game as they have on barbarians or savages — 
they drive it away. 

Our Northeastern cities are now supplied by the West- 
em States with game. In winter time, game may be kept 
for weeks without being spoiled or losing its natural flavor 
and taste, when kept where it is killed ; but when trans- 
ported, it is very different. To transport it requires pack- 
ing. As soon as packed, it naturally ferments ; and even 
if packed when frozen, the middle of the barrel will fer- 
ment and become injured, if not entirely rendered unfit for 
the table. 

The packing of game or poultry in barrels is a bad 
practice. Nothing requires more ventilation than game 
while being transported. Many dealers have their game 
sent to them in wicker-baskets with plenty of straw, but 
the greater part is still sent in barrels ; hence the musty 
taste when cooked. 

To keep game for some time when fresh, open the 
animal or bird under the romp, just enough to take the 



6AHB. 277 

maide ont^ also the crop of birds, being very careful about 
the gall-bladder ; if it bursts, it is better not to try to pre- 
serve the piece, but to clean, wash, and use it as soon as 
possible. Birds must be left in their feathers, and ani- 
mals in their skins. Fill the inside with dry and clean 
oats, and put the piece in aheap or barrel of oats. It 
will keep thus for many days. 

Another way is to envelop the piece well in a towel, 
and bury it in charcoal dust in a cool aud dry place. 

How to clean and prepare. — Clean and prepare the 
birds as directed for poultry in general 

After having care&Uy skinned, take out the inside, and 
cut the legs off at the first joint of animals ; wash the 
inside with lukewarm water, and wipe it dry with a clean 
towel immediately after ; wipe also the outside, but do 
not wash it if possible ; that is, if you can clean it well by 
wiping only. 

Wild duckSy geese, pigeons, and turkeys, are prepared, 
cooked, and served like tame ones. 

Bear-meat and Buffalo, — ^The meat of all large animals 
is better roasted, than dressed in any other way. Prepare, 
cook, and serve bear and buffalo meat like venison, beef 
h la mode, or stewed. 

Bear-meat has highly nutritive qualities, and is very 
wanning. 

Buffalo-steaks are said to be better broiled on cinders 
without a gridiron, than on or before coals with one ; that 
IS, Indian feshion and even hunters' fashion. 

Indians often use wood-ashes as a substitute for salt, 
and never use salt with buffalo-meat ; but their liking or 
preference comes from their habit of invariably broiling 
buffalo-meat on wood cinders or buffalo-chips. 

Bear-ham^, so well appreciated everywhere, are pie- 



1 



278 QAMX. 

pared and served like common hams. A bear-ham, taste- 
folly decorated, is considered a recherchi dish at sapper for 
evening parties. 

Blaelddrdy Bobolink^ and Small Birds, — ^The cat below 
represents six small birds on the spit, ready for roasUng, 
When the birds are prepared, cat oJQf the ends of the wingi 
and the legs above the first joint. Instead of cutting the 
legs above the first joint, the ends of the claws only may 
be cat 0% according to taste. Gat thin slices of fiit 
salt pork, of a proper size to cover the breast of the bird ; 
place the slice on the breast of it, ran a skewer throogh 
the middle of the bird, so that it will ran through the two 
ends of the slice of salt pork also, as seen in the cat 

Have a skewer, or merely a piece of wire, long enough 
to hold six birds ; fix the skewer on the spit, and roast. 

When the six birds are on the skewer, fasten them 
with twine, to prevent them from taming round, as seen 
in the cut 




Small birds are cleaned and prepared as directed for 
poultry, but they are not trussed, their legs being tied 
while tying the salt pork. While roasting, they are basted 
often with the drippings. Some water-cress and lemon- 
juice sprinkled upon them may bo served with the birds. 
The twine is removed before serving, and they must be 
served hot ; if allowed to cool at all, they lose their taste. 
It takes from ten to fifteen minutes to roast 

Baked. — ^Prepare them exactly as for roasting : place 
the wire or skewer across a baking-pan, turn them round 



GAME. 279 

tiiJ baste often ; serve also as above, with the gravy, and 
with or without water-cress. 

The bobolink, reed-hird, and rice-bird are the same ; they 
are called under these different names at diflferent seasons 
and in different localities ; it is the American ortolan, the 
most delicate of small birds ; the robin comes next. 

To eat it a la BriUai-Savarin, — Take hold of the bird 
by the bill ; open your mouth wide enough to introduce 
the whole bird into it easily ; then shut it, at the same 
time biting off the bill just at its base; chew properly and 
swallow. 

While the birds are roasting or baking, place as many 
small slices of bread in the dripping or baking pan, and 
serve a bird over each slice. Cut the slices either square, 
round, or oval, about one-fourth of an inch in thickness, 
and large enough to hold the bird. 

Htinter-like. — ^Prepare small birds as described for 
quails, hunter-like ; it makes an excellent dish. 

In Salmis. — ^Roasted or baked small birds can be pre- 
pared in salmis when cold. Many amateurs prefer small 
birds not drawn ; that is, the crop only is taken off, but 
nothing of the inside is disturbed ; they pretend that they 
have a better taste when cooked thus ; of course, every 
one to his taste. 

High-holders, lapwings, meadow-larJes, plovers, rails, 
robins, snipes, thrushes, woodcocks, woodpeckers, and yelloW" 
birds are prepared as above. 

Small birds have a better flavor when cooked after 
being somewhat seasoned than when cooked fresh, but they 
must not be tainted. As long as the rump is stiff, they 
are good; if soft, they must be examined carefully, as they 
might be tainted. When young, there is no stiffness in 
the legs. Small birds are generally put by the half dozen 



280 GAME. 

on the same skewer, as seen in the cat (p. 278) ; but 
when a little larger, like the robin or plover, they may be 
trussed as directed for snipes. 

OrouBe or Heathcock. — ^These are good as long as the 
legs are flexible ; if not, examine them carefully, they might 
be rotten inside. 

Lard them well, envelop each in buttered paper, and 
place on the spit before a good fire ; baste often, remove 
the paper after twenty or twenty-five minutes ; leave two 
or three minutes more, basting continuaUy with the drip- 
pings ; dish the birds ; mix with the drippings a few drops 
of Icmon-jaice, and a little salt and pepper, and serve with 
the birds. 

Baked, — ^Lard the bird as for roasting; that is, the 
fleshy parts only are larded with salt pork, then truss them 
as directed for chicken, place them in a baking*pan, cover 
the bottom of the pan with cold water, put a piece of but- 
tered paper on each bird, place in a hot oven, baste often 
till done. Serve with the gravy some water-cress, and 
lemon-juice, or vinegar. 

It is also prepared, cooked, and served in the difierent 
ways described for prairie-hen, either in ehartreiue, salmis, 
salad, or any other way. 

Hare. — ^No hares have yet been found in the United 
States, except in California. The reported hare of the West- 
em prairies is, as &r as known, a species of rabbit That 
found in the Eastern markets comes from Canada wd Eu- 
rope. The Canadian hare is very inferior in quality. 

To select, — When young it has rather soft paws, and 
not n^uch opened, and also soft ears ; but if old, the paws 
are hard and much worn, and the ears stiff and hard. If 
fresh, the body is stiff; it is soft, and the flesh is nearly 
black, if tainted. Save the blood as much as possible ; it 
improves the sauce very much. 



GAHE. 281 

In Civet, — ^When the hare is cleaned as directed for 
game, cut in pieces. Have in a saucepan and on a good 
fire two ounces of butter and one of salt pork cut in dice. 
Stir, and when the salt pork is fried take it off the pan, and 
put the pieces of hare in it ; stir with a wooden spoon 
now and then, till of a fine golden color; then sprin- 
kle on it a teaspoonful of flour, add ten small onions, four 
sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, two cloves of garlic, a bay- 
lea^ salt, pepper, about a pint of claret wine, same of 
broth, three or four mushrooms, and a little grated nut- 
meg ; boil gently till done ; dish the pieces of hare ; throw 
away parsley, thyme, bay-lea^ and garlic ; mix the blood of 
the hare, if any, in the sauce, boil it about ten minutes 
longer, turn it on the hare, and serve warm. 

Many epicures like a civet better when prepared one 
or two days in advance, and only warmed before serving. 
When the civet is done, and ready to serve, place the dish 
in a cool, dry place, and when you want to eat the civet, 
place the dish in a bain-marie^ or in an oven, and serve 
when warm. 

The eamtj roasted.— Lsad the hare well ; place it on 
the spit before a good fixe ; baste oflen with the drippings, 
and when properly cooked serve it with the following 
sauce : put in a stewpan a piece of butter the size of a wal- 
nut, and set it on a good fire ; when melted, put in it the 
hare's liver well pounded, then the blood, if any, also the 
drippings, salt, pepper, a tablespoonful of white wine, same 
of broth, and one teaspoonful of vinegar ; when of a proper 
thickness, serve with the hare. 

It takes about an hour to roast it well 

In a sraiail family, the hind part is roasted, and the fore 
part of the hare is dressed in civet. 

Baked. — ^Lard it with salt pork and bake it, basting 
often : serve in the same way as a roasted one. 



282 GAME. 

The same^ next day. — ^If any is left from the day before, 
warm it anc* serve, if in civet; cnt in slices and serve cold, 
with an oil-sauce, if roasted. 

Leveret, — Cook and serve like a hare. 

A leveret may also be eautid like a chicken. 

Fheaeantj to select, — ^When young, the claws are short 
and round at the end, while they are long and sharp when 
old. They are not fresh when the rump is of a bluish 
color, but some amateurs like them then ; in that state, 
they are said to have a venison taste. Some hang the 
bird by the feathers of the tsal and leave it so till it &lls ; 
then they prepare and eat it. It does not ML until 
very " high," or rather when tainted. They ought not to 
be cooked when very fresh, as they have not as delicate a 
taste then as when rather *' high." 

Pheasants are prepared, cooked, and served like prairie 
birds in every way. 

Crane, Ostrich^ Peacock, Pelican, or other Large Birds, 
— These birds are seldom eaten. When old, they are tough, 
and of a disagreeable taste. When young, they are not 
so bad, and may be prepared like a turkey stuffed or stewed. 

Prairie-bird, Prairie-hen, and Partridge, — An old 
prairie-hen has a white bill and bluish 1^ ; when young, 
the bill is of a rather dark-gray color, and the legs are 
yellowish. As long as the rump does not turn bluish, it 
is fresh enough. 

To prepare, — Clean and prepare a prairie-hen as di- 
rected for poultry in general 

Baked. — Clean and prepare the bird as directed, then 
cut off the claws to about half their length. Truss the 
prairie-hen as directed for chicken, and then cover its breast 
with a thin slice of fat salt pork, but do not cover the back 
of the bird. Tie the salt pork with twine. Place the 



GAMB. 283 

prairie-hen on its back m the baking-pan, with a piece of 
butter the size of a wahint on it ; set it in a qnick oven 
(about 400 deg. Fahr.), baste often, and serve when rather 
underdone. While the bird is baking, prepare some fresh 
water-cress, place some of it all around the bird; mix 
lemon-juice with the gravy and turn it over the bird and 
water-cress, and serve warm. It may also be served after 
being baked, the same as directed for a roasted one. 

Broiled, — Clean and prepare as directed, then split the 
back of the prairielen so as to open it ; salt, pepper, and 
butter it by means of a brush ; place it on the gridiron 
over a good fire ; turn over three or four times ; as soon 
as done, sprinkle on it a little allspice, dish the bird, spread 
a maitre (Thdtel sauce on it, and serve warm. It is also 
served with a piqwmte, poivrade^ or ravigote sauce. 

Another u^ay.— -Split the prairie-hen in two lengthwise 
so as to make two equal pieces. Put one ounce of butter 
in a stewpan and set it on a good fire; when melted, lay 
the two halves of the bird in ; turn over and leave them 
till a little more than half cooked, when take them off. 
Envelop each piece in buttered paper, place them on the 
gridiron, and set it on a rather brisk fire for about fifteen 
minutes, turning over once only, and serve with the fol- 
lowing sauce : Put with the butter in the pan in which 
was the bird, about a teaspoonfiil of chopped parsley, 
same of chopped mushrooms, salt, pepper, and a pinch of 
allspice ; sprinkle in and stir at the same time a teaspoon* 
ful of flour ; add a gill of white wine, same of broth ; boil 
gently till of a proper thickness, and serve the bird with 
it, either on the same dish or separately. Serve as warm 
as possible. 

With Cabbage, — Clean and truss the prairie-chicken 
aa directed for birds ; iry it a little with butter, just enoagh 



284 oajcje:. 

to color it ; then place a cabbage, preyiously blanched, cat 
m fonr pieces, all aronnd it ; also about four onnces of lean 
salt pork, one onion whole ; jast cover the whole with cold 
water (it requires about one pint of it if the pan is of a 
proper size) ; when the cabbage is boiled down, baste oc- 
casionally with the juice, and if it boils away add a little 
broth or water ; keep enough to baste till done, when dish 
the prairie-Kshicken with the cabbage around, also the salt 
pork if liked; turn the juice all over through a strainer. 
In case it is not salt enough, add salt while basting. The 
flesh of a prairie-chicken is naturally dry, and by being 
cooked with cabbage it is kept moist all the time and is 
juicy when done. For those who have no prejudice against 
cabbage, it is the best way to prepare a prairie-bird. 

Another way, — Lard two prairie-birds as directed for 
larding, after being cleaned and prepared as directed. Put 
iQ a stewpan half a pound of bacon cut in slices, with four 
onions, two carrots cut in pieces, a small dried or Bologna 
sausage, two sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, two cloves, a 
bay-leaf, a little grated nutmeg, and a cabbage cut rather 
fine, and which is to be previously thrown in boiHng 
water and boiled ten minutes ; then the two partridges or 
prairie-hens ; place over the whole four ounces of bacon 
cut in thin slices, cover with broth, set the pan on a sharp 
fire, and when it has boiled about fifteen minutes, subdue 
the fire, or put the pan in a moderately heated oven, sim- 
mer about two hours if the partridges are old, and one 
hour if they are young ; then take firom the fire, place the 
partridges on a dish with the sausage cut in pieces around 
them, drain the cabbage and put it on another dish with 
the bacon, strain the sauce on both dishes, and serve. 

In Chartreme, — It is made in a mould for CharlotU 
ruase^ or in one like the cut following. Clean the prairie 



GAME. 285 

Hen as directed for birds ; put it in a b&king-pan with one 
onnce of batter spread on it, also salt and pepper, and a 
gill of cold water in the pan, and bake till underdone, 
when cut it in seven pieces, making three slices in the 
breast, lengthwise. Peel and slice two carrots and two 
turnips ; cut the slices about an inch thick ; then cut again 
in small round pieces, with a fruit-corer, about half an 
inch in diameter ; set them on the fire with cold water and 
salt, boil gently till done, drain and turn immediately in 
cold water, and they are ready to be used. Put a small 
head of cabbage in a saucepan with half a pound of lean 
salt pork, just cover it with cold water, and boil gently till 
done. The prairie-hen, carrots, and turnips, and the cab- 
bage, may be cooked at the same time, but separately, as 
directed. When the cabbage is done, turn it into a col- 
ander, cut it rather fine with a spoon, press gently on it 
to get the water out as much as possible without mash- 
ing it through the colander, and it is ready to be used. 
Butter the mould well ; place slices of boiled beets on the 
bottom ; some letters or fiowers may be cut in beet, the 
intervals or holes filled with turnips and carrots ; when the 
bottom is lined with beets, carrots, and turnips, lay hori- 
zontally a row of pieces of carrots all around and against 
the sides of the mould ; place a similar one of turnips on 
the carrots, and so on, the last row being as high as the 
top of the mould. Then put a layer of the cabbage on 
the bottom, about half an inch thick— that is, on the car- 
rots, turnips, and beets — ^place a like layer on tLe sides 
with a spoon ; put the pieces of prairie-hen in the middle, 
cover with a layer of cabbage, and bake about fifteen min- 
utes in an oven at about 350 deg. Fahr. The meat must 
not touch the carrots or turnips, but be entirely surrounded 
with cabbage, else i^, would crumble down in removing the 



mould. Aa soon as the mould is takoa oat u/ the oven, 
place a dieh over it and tam it upside down, leave it bo 
about t«n minotes to allow the juice to come out, then re- 
move the mould carofully, and serve. 

The cut below represents a ehartretue made exactly 
like the one described above, with the excepUon that in- 
stead of having a row of carrots and a row of tomips, 
thej are mixed, that is, placed alternately, the white spots 
lepreseoliug pieces of turnips and the black spots pieces 
of carrots — the top being decoiated according to fancy. 

According to tlie size of the mould, two, three, or more 
praiiifr-hens may be prepared at one Ume and in the same 
mould. 



Soatled. — Bub the stomach and legs of the birds witii 
lemon, then envelop those parts with slices of bacon tied 
with twine, or fixed with small skewers; after which en- 
velop the whole bird in buttered paper tied with twine ; 

place them on a spit before a good fire, take the paper off 
after twenty or thirty minutes, according to the age of the 
bird ; leave two or three minutes longer, baste often during 
the process of roasting, with the drippings ; dish the birds 
without removing the slices of bacon ; mix in the gravy 
the juice of half a lemon, or half an orange, a little salt 
and pepper, and serve it with the birds. It may also ba 



GAHB. 287 

served with watem^ress and lemon-juice or vinegar. When 
roasted or baked and dished, place carpels i^f oranges all 
around, and serve. 

A roasted or baked prairie-hen is also served with the 
following sauces : anchovy, caper, Champagne, cranberry, 
and ravigote or tomato, and currant-jelly. 

With Mushrooms, — ^When roasted or baked, serve it 
with a garniture of mushrooms. It is also served with a 
garniture of cauliflowers, Jinaneikre, MaeSdome, and of 
truffles. 

In Fricdssee, — ^Prepare, cook, and serve it like chicken 
in fricassk. 

In CrajMztMftn^.— Proceed as for pigeons in crapaudine, 
the only difference being that it takes a little longer to 
cook. It is also prepared and served as a quail, hunter- 
like. It takes longer to cook than a quaU. 

/S^a«^^.— Clean, prepare, cut, cook, dish, and serve the 
prairie-bird as a chicken sauti. 

Stewed. — Clean, prepare, and truss the bird as directed. 
Put about one ounce of butter and two ounces of &t salt 
pork, cut in dice, in a saucepan, and set it on a quick fire ; 
toss gently, and when the butter is melted, put the bird in 
and brown it all around ; then add four small onions, half 
a carrot in slices, salt, and pepper ; stir till the onions and 
carrot are partly fried ; then add half a pint of broth, same 
of white wine, a bunch of seasonings composed of four or 
five stalks of parsley, one of thyme, one bay-leaf, and a 
clove ; boil gently till done ; dish the bird, turn the sauce 
over it through a strainer, and serve warm. Thus stewed, it 
may be served with the following purSes : asparagus, beans, 
lentils, lima beans, mushrooms, and peas. 

Cold,^^A whole bird or part of it left from the pre- 
ceding day's dinner, if it has been broiled, baked, or 



288 QAMB. 

roasted, is prepared and served in salad, like a cbiclcen 
salad ; or in salmis. 

Boned. — ^A boned prairie-bird maizes an exceUent disb 
and a most nutritions and wanning one. Persons baving 
a pblegmatic constitution ongbt to partake of it at least 
twice a week during bunting-time. Always select a very 
fresb and fat bird to bone. Pick, bone, fill, cook, and 
serve it as described for boned turkey. A prairie-ben is 
more easily boned, wben fresh, than an ordinary cbicken. 
The addition of truffles (about balf a pound for one bird) 
makes it still richer and warmer. 

In Croquettes. — ^Prepare, cook, and serve as chicken 
croquettes. 

Quails. — ^A quail, like a pr^rie-bird, is old when it 
has a white bill and bluish legs ; when young, the bill is 
of a rather dark-gray color, and the legs are yellowish. 
Quails are just the contrary of pheasants ; the more fresh 
they are when cooked, the better. 

To prepare. — ^When cleaned and prepared as directed 
for poultry, cut off the end of the claws, and then truss it 
as a chicken, sprinkle salt and pepper on the breast. Gut 
thin slices of &t salt pork, somewhat square, and of a 
proper size to cover the breast of the bird, but not the 
back. Tie it to the bird with two pieces of twine, then 
roast or bake. 

Another, way to prepare them. — ^When cleaned, pre- 
pared, and trussed as above, envelop the bird with grape- 
vine leaves, then in thin slices of salt-pork, and roast or 
bake them. They may also be enveloped in buttered 
paper, after being prepared, instead of salt pork or grape- 
vine leaves, or instead of both, but only to roast them ; if 
baked, the buttered paper is placed over the birds. 

Baked. — ^Place the birds on their backs in a baking- 



GAME. 289 

pan, witli a piece of batter the size of a hazel-nut on eaea , 
just cover the bottom of the pan with cold water, and set 
in a qoick oven (about 400^ Fahr.) and baste now and 
then. When about half done, put the liver of the birds, 
well ponnded, in the baking-pan, and continue basting till 
done. While the quails are baking, cut as many square 
slices of stale bread as you have quails, about three inches 
broad and one-fourth of an inch thick; fry them in hot 
fat, place them on the dish, place a quail with the breast 
upward on each slice ; remove the twine, turn the gravy 
over them and serve warm. Water-cress may be placed 
between each bird, as well as all around, and in the mid- 
dle of the dish, with vinegar or lemon-juice sprinkled all 
over. It must also be served warm. 

Hunter-like (au Chasseur). — ^Clean and prepare as di- 
rected for birds. Set a saucepan on the fire with two 
ounces of butter to melt, then put in it four quails trussed 
as for roasting; turn them round in the pan to color every 
side ; add then half a dozen stalks of parsley, salt, pepper, 
and nearly cover them with broth and white wine, half of 
each ; boil gently till done. Dish the quails, aod put them 
away in a warm place. Strain the sauce and put it back 
on the fire with a tablespoonful of meunihrey boil rather 
fast till it commences turning thick, turn over the quails 
and serve warm. 

Roasted, — ^When cleaned and prepared as directed, 
envelop the birds in grape-vine leaves and salt pork, or in 
buttered paper, as directed above, and place them on the 
spit before a moderate though good fire. Have slices of 
roasted bread in the dripping-pan, baste often with the 
drippings, and when done remove the twine, or the twine 
and paper, but neither the salt pork nor the grape-viue 
leaves, ^d serve warm. The slices of bread are placed 

13 



290 GAMS. 

on the dislif then a qaail on each slice. Water-cress maj 
also be served as above* 

Quails roasted with grape-vine leaves are considered 
one of the most reeherchS dishes. When about half 
roasted, the liver of the birds, weU pounded, is put in the 
dripping-pan, and the drippings are turned over the birds 
when dished. When pounded, the livers may be spread 
on the slices of bread before placing them in the dripping- 
pan. 

With Green P«m.— When the quails are roasted or 
baked, they may be served with green peas aujus. They 
may also be served on a purSe of celery or of mushrooms. 
In Chartreuse. — Proceed exactly as for a chartreuee of 
prairie-bird. Quails may be served in every way like 
prairie-hens, stewed^ in sakuij in salmis^ etc 

B(Mit — to select. — A rabbit, like almost every other 
kiud of game, has a better taste when a little seasoned, 
but not too much so. As long as the body is rather stifi^ 
it is good ; but when soft, and when the flesh has a black- 
bluiidi appearance, it is necessary to examine it carefully, 
as it might be tainted. A young rabbit has soft paws, 
and are not much opened ; but an old one has them 
open, hard, and worn out. The ears of a young one are 
very soft, while those of an old one are stiff and com- 
paratively rough. The blood of the rabbit is a great im- 
provement when mixed with the sauce or gravy accom- 
panying it when served; therefore, we emphatically and 
earnestly ask of hunters, when they kill rabbits, to place 
them in their game-bags in such a position that the place 
where the shots have penetrated and through which the 
blood is escaping, be upward, and consequently stop the 
spilling of it. 

Tame rabbits, unless they have been kept in a large 



GAKE. 291 

place, well fed, free from any manure or dirt, and having 
also plenty of room to burrow in a dry soil, are very sel- 
dom fit to eat. 

To lard. — ^The fleshy parts of a rabbit are larded with 
salt pork in the same way as described for a fillet of beefl 

BaJeed. — ^To bake it, it may be larded or not, accord- 
ing to taste. When cleaned and prepared as directed for 
game, place the rabbit in a baking-pan, with a few slices 
of onion and carrot ; salt, pepper, and butter it ; cover the 
bottom of the pan with cold water and set it in a quick 
oven. After ten or fifteen minutes, turn the rabbit over, 
baste and cover it with a piece of buttered paper. Con- 
tinue basting till done. When about half done, if the 
water and juice are boiling away or absorbed, add more 
water or broth, and when done turn the gravy over the 
rabbit through a strainer, and serve with water-cress and 
a few drops of lemon-juice or vinegar. 

It is also served with a cranberry y fines herhes, mush' 
roomy piquantey ravigoUy iomatOy and truffle sauce. 

In Chartreuse, — ^A rabbit is prepared in chartreuse the 
same as a prairie-chicken ; the only difference is, that it 
requires a larger mould ; the rest of the process is the 
same. 

In Civety or stewed. — Cut the rabbit in pieces, and fiy 
them with a little butter till turning rather brown, when 
add half a pound of lean salt pork cut in dice ; stir and 
fry two or three minutes, stir in also a tablespoonful of 
flour ; one minute after add a half pint of broth, same of 
claret wine, salt, twelve small onions, and a bunch of 
seasonings, composed of three or four sprigs of parsley, 
one of thyme, a bay-leaf, a clove of garlic, one clove, 
fioil gently till done ; throw away the bunch of season* 
mgSy and serve wann. In case it is not handy to us^ 



292 OAKE. 

claret wine, use a gill of Madeira, or Port, or Sherry wine, 
and one gill of water. Without wine at all it malces an 
inferior dish. 

A civet made three or four days in advance, and 
wanned in a bain-marie for ten minates, once every day, is 
better than if eaten as soon as made. 

In case the sance is becoming too thic^, after wanning 
the rabbit several times, add a little broth, and also a lit- 
tle batter ; stir gently, and always serve as warm as pos- 
sible. 

In Crapaudine, — ^When cleaned and prepared as di- 
rected, cook and serve the rabbit as described for pigeon 
in crapaudine, with the exception that it takes a little 
longer to cook. 

In Croquettee, What may be left from the preceding 
day's dinner of a baked, roasted, or staffed rabbit, may be 
prepared in croquettes^ in the same way as chicken cro- 
quettes. 

With CurranVrFelly, — A rabbit served with currant- 
jelly makes a sightly dish, bat it requires care and taste. 
Skin the rabbit carefully, leaving the ears unskinned. Cut 
the legs at the first joint, then dip the ears in hot (but not 
boiling) water, and scrape off the hair carefully. Draw it 
and wash the inside carefully also, putting away the liver, 
heart, and lungs. Chop fine one middling-sized onion, 
and fry it with about one ounce of butter ; then add to 
the onion, and fry them also, the heart, liver, and lungs of 
the rabbit, after being chopped fine, when add a tear 
spoonful of chopped parsley, salt, pepper, nutmeg grated, 
and a piece of clove also grated. Stir for about one 
minute, take from the fire, mix with it two yolks of e^^ 
and one ounce of butter. 1111 the rabbit with the mix 
tare, sew up the incision made to draw it, and then trusi 



GAMS. 393 

it in the following way : Put tlie rabbit on the paste board 
so that it appears as if it were resting, lying on its belly* 
Skewer the ears so that they seem to be naturally bent 
on the back of the neclc With a tmssing-needle fasten 
the forelegs so that they look also as if naturally bent by 
the animal when at rest Roast or bake it, and serve it 
with the gravy and currant or raspberry jelfy. 

It is placed on the dish lying on its belly, the skewers 
and twine are removed, and a few sprigs of parsley are 
placed in its mouth. The currant-jelly may be served in 
a saucer and the gravy in another. 

In Gibelotte.^'The only difference between a gihelotU 
and a civet is that the latter is made with claret wine and 
the former with Sautcme or Catawba. Other white wine 
may be used, but the two kinds above mentioned are tlio 
best. 

Marengo. — ^When cleaned and prepared as directed, 
cut the rabbit in pieces; keep the head, neck, and trim- 
mings, to make a potage au chasseur^ and cook and serve 
the rest as a chicken h la Marengo, 

In Papillotes. — ^The four legs and two pieces cut on 
both sides of the backbone may be prepared, cooked, and 
served as veal cutlets in papillotes. The rest is used to 
make a potage au chasseur. 

With Olives, — When baked or roasted, serve it as a 
duck with olives, putting three dozen olives instead of two. 

Boasted, — It may be roasted with only a little buttei 
spread all over it, or enveloped in buttered paper; or larded 
with salt pork; or larded and enveloped in buttered paper. 
It must be basted often, and if enveloped with paper, the 
paper must be removed about fifteen minutes before tak- 
ing the rabbit from the fire. Ascertain when done by 
means of a skewer or a small sharp-pointed knife. It 



294 GAHB. 

takes about forty-five romntes to roast, according to size 
and fire. When roasted it may be served with its gravy 
or drippings only, or with a cranberrjf, fines herheSj mtishr 
room, piguante^ Proven^aley ramgote^ Tartar^ tomato^ or 
truffle sauce. 

With Oreen Peas. — ^When baked or roasted, serve it 
with green peas au jus. 

SautL — ^When the rabbit is cleaned and prepared as 
directed, proceed as for a chicken 8aut6 in eveiy par- 
ticular. 

Sportsman4ike. — Clean and prepare the rabbit, then 
cut off the neck, head, and the end of the l^s, which 
you keep to make a potage au chasseur. Put the rest in 
a crockery vessel with the juice of a lemon, salt, and pep- 
per. Leave thus for at least one day, turning it over two 
or three times. Then bake or roast it, and serve with 
the gravy and watercress. 

5tewc(f.— When cleaned and prepared, cut the rabbit 
in pieces. Put in a saucepan three ounces of butter and 
set it on the fire ; as soon as melted, put the pieces of 
rabbit in, stir now and then till they are turning rather 
brown, then take them from the pan but keep it on the 
fire. Put in it a rather small carrot and two or three 
onions, both sliced, a few slices of turnip, half a dozen 
sprigs of parsley, two of celery, one of thyme, the last 
ihree tied together with twine, and two or three cloves, 
also half a pint of Madeira or Sherry wine, salt, and pep- 
per ; cover the whole with broth or water ; boil gently 
till half done, when add the rabbit, and continue boiling 
till the whole is done, stirring once in a while. Dish the 
rabbit, mash the onions, carrot, and turnip, through a col- 
ander, which you put all around the pieces of rabbity 
strain the sauce over the whole, and serve warm. 



GAME. 295 

Co^.— Wliat is left is wanned and served, if from a 
Avety gibelotte, stewed, etc., and served with a vmatgrette^ 
£ from a roasted or baked piece. It may also be served 
with a piqtuinUy paivrade, or ravigote sauce. 

Sfiipe — to truss, — Prepare as directed for poultry. 
Cut the wings off just above the second joint, as seen 
in the cut below. The head and legs must be cleaned 
very carefully. By heating the lower part of the legs and 
the claws, the sMn can be easily removed, but this is not 
necessary, they may be singed and washed only. Fold 
the legs and run the bill of the bird through the two legs 
and the body. Put a slice of isX salt pork on the breast 
of the snipe, which you fasten there with twine, as seen 
in the cut below. The cut represents the bird on the spit, 
ready for roasting. 




Stewed, — Take four snipes and pound the livers, hearts, 
and lungs well with about the same amount of fat salt 
pork ; then add to them about a teaspoonful of parsley 
chopped flue, and the yolk of an e^ ; divide the mixture 
in four parts and put each part in a bird, which you sew 
and truss as directed. Line the bottom of a stewpan with 
slices of salt pork and lay the snipe on them ; set on a 
slow fire for ten minutes, add about half a pint of white 
wine, same of broth ; simmer till done, dish the birds, 
strain the gravy on them, sprinkle a few drops of lemon- 
juice over the whole, and serve warm. Snipes are served 



296 GAMB. 

in seyeral ways, as described for bobolmki aad oUier 
small birds. 

Salmis. — A salmis is made with tame dacks and any 
kind of game birds. 

Birds may be roasted or baked to make a salmis^ but 
most generally it is made witb cold birds, that is, what is 
left from the previous day's dinner. It is certainly the 
best way to make use of cold bird& Hie proportions of 
the different seasonings are according to the proportion 
of meat. We give below the proportions for a whole 
bbrd ; it will be easy to augment or reduce. JPut two 
ounces of butter in a saucepan and set it on the fire ; as 
soon as melted stir into it a tablespoonful of flour ; when 
turning rather yellow add one pint of broth, same of 
claret wine, a bunch of seasonings composed of four or 
five sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a bay-leaf and a 
clove, also salt, pepper, and a clove of garlic ; boil gently 
about thirty-five minutes. Strain the sauce into a sauce- 
pan. Cut the bird or part of bird in pieces, the same as 
they are generally carved ; put them in the pan with the 
sauce ; place the saucepan in a bainr^narie till the meat is 
warm, add some lemon-juice, and serve. While the meat 
is warming, cut some stale bread in croutons^ fry them 
with a little butter. 

To serve.'-^K salmis is served in two ways : first, the 
croutons are placed on the dish, a piece of meat is put on 
each, and then the sauce is poured all over; second, 
dish the meat and sauce, place the croutons all around the 
dish, with a piece of lemon or bitter orange between each 
crouton. When the croutons are served under the pieces 
of meat, you must have as many as there are pieces ; 
when served around the dish, have enough of them, and 
of slices of lemon, to surround the dish. The croutons and 



GAus. 297 

slices of lemon are always placed aroand the meat and 
on the border of the dish. The lemon or orange is first 
split in two lengthwise, then cat in eight, twelre, or six- 
teen slices, always commencing to cat on the inside and 
finishing by the rind. Chop fine the bones, heart, and 
liver of the bird, and pnt them in the sancepan at the 
same time with the broth. Troffles or mushrooms sliced 
may be added to the sauce, if liked, bat only when 
strained. 

Another, — Carve the bird or part of it, and serve cold 
with the following sance pouDd the liver of the bird and 
pat it in a saucer; add to it aJittle vinegar, salt, pepper, 
and stir and mix the whole ; Ihen add about three times 
as much oil as vinegar, mix again, thiBn lemon-juice, stir, 
and serve. It may be made without vinegar at all, using 
lemon-juice instead of vinegar to mix at first 



OPOSSUM, OTTER, RACCOON, SKUNK, TOX, WOODCHUCK, 

AND OTHER LIKE ANIMALS. 

We cannot say that we have had much experience in 
cooking the above animals, but they are all eaten by many 
|NBrsons, in different parts of this and other countries. 
We have tasted of all of fhem except the raccoon, 
and we must say that we found them palatable. It is 
well known that when our soldiers retook possession of 
Ship Island, they found plenty of raccoons on it, and ate 
all they could catch. One day we happened. to meet a 
sub-officer, who was there at the tinie, and inquired of him 
aboat it. He said he had never eaten any raccoons be- 
fore, and did not know that they were eatable ; but now 
he could eat them as readily as rabbits, as they were quite 
as good. 

13* 



298 GAMB. 

The best time to eat any of the animak ennmezaled 
aboTe is from Christmas to the 15th of February. 

How to prepare them.-'—h& soon as the animal is killed 
sldn it, take the inside out, save the liver and heart, and 
wash well with lukewann water and a little salt, inmde 
and oat; then wipe dry with a towel, put inside a 
few leaves of sage, bay-leaves, mint, and thyme, and sew 
it up. Hang it outside in a place sheltered from the sun, 
such as the northern side of a building ; leave it thus five 
or six days, then take off, and cook. 

How to skin a Skunk. — We were hunting one day in 
New Jersey, northwest of Paterson, with a friend and two 
formers living there, when one of them shot a skunk. We 
asked him how much he could get for the sldn. He said 
it was not worth while to take it to town, but that he 
would eat the animal, as it was very good. 

We thought at first that he was joking ; but putting 
his gun and game-bag to the ground, he looked at us 
earnestly, and said, " Gentlemen, you seem to doubt ; I 
will show you how it is done.'^ We soon saw that we 
had been mistaken. 

He made a fire, took hold of the skunk by the head 
with one hand, and with a stick in the other held the 
skunk over the fire. He burnt off nearly all the hair, 
taking care to avoid burning the skin, commencing at the 
hind legs ; then with his hunting-knife he carefully cut 
off the bag containing the fetid matter, and skinned and 
cleaned it. 

We then examined the skunk, and although it had not 
been washed, we could not find any part of it with a bad 
smell, and if we had not seen the whole operation we cer- 
tainly would not have thought that it was a skunk, the 
very name of which is repulsi\e. 



GAMS. S99 

The following week we dined with the &nner, ate some 
of that identical skunk, and found it very good. 

ffwo to cook ike ahovcrwimed Animals. — Take out the 
leaM» of sage, etc., which yon pnt in the animal before 
exposing it to the weather. Pound well the lirer and 
heart with about the same quanl^ty of bacon, then mix 
that with two or three teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley, a 
pinch of grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper ; stuff the animal 
with that mixture, and also with six small onions fried in 
butter, and a bunch of seasoning composed of four sprigs 
of parsley, three of thyme, two cIoycs, two cloves of garlic, 
and two bay-leaves, and sew it up again. Butter it well 
all over, place it on a spit before a very quick fire ; put 
three or four sage-leaves in the dripping-pan, and baste 
often with the drippings. Serve it when cooked with 
the gravy, throwing away the sage-leaves. 

It may also be served with a Mayonnaise, ravipote, or 
Tartar sauce. 

Squirrel, — ^A squirrel is prepared as a rabbit in every 
particular. 

VENISON. 

If young, the hoof is not much opened, and the fat is 
thick and clear ; when old, the hoo£s are wide open. To 
know if it is fresh enough, run a knife or a skewer through 
the leg or through the shoulder, and if it does not smell 
bad and stale, it is good. It is not as delicate when fr^sh 
as when it has been killed for five or six davs. If fresh 
when you buy it, keep it from three to eight days before 
cooking it 

To improve. — Put the piece of venison m a crockery 
vessel For about six pounds put a pint of vinegar in a 
UfOcepan with two bay-leaves, two doves, two doves of 



300 OAMB. 

garlic, one onion sliced, two fitalla of thyme, four of pais- 
ley, and twelve pepper-corns ; set it on the fire, give one 
boil, and turn over the piece of venison. Tom the piece 
of meat over occasionidly for one or two days, and then 
cook it 

Another way. — ^Lard the piece of venison and put it 
in a crockery vessel ; spread all over two or three onions 
and a clove or two of garlic (both sliced), half a gill of 
sweet-oil, same of claret wine, a pinch of allspice, foni 
doves, and two sprigs of thyme ; baste twice a day for 
two or three days, and then cook. 

To hake, — ^Put the yenison in a baking^pan with the 
seasonings in which it has improved ; spread some butter 
on it, and bake in a rather quick oven ; baste now and 
then, and turn over if necessary. When baked, serve with 
a ravigote sauce, to which you have added the gravy from 
the pan in which it has been baked. Serve it also with a 
cranberry, piquante, Robert^ or Tartar sauce, or with cur- 
rant-jelly. 

In Civet, — Shoulder, neck, and breast-pieces are cut 
and prepared in civet, in the same way as a civet of rabbit. 

It may also be kept three or four days and warmed 
in a bain-marie ; it improves it as much as that of rabbit. 

With Muahroome, — ^Any piece of venison, baked or 
roasted, may be served with a garniture of mushrooms. 

CutletSy broiled. — The cutlets are much better when 
improved as directed. The seasonings are spread all over. 
They are then wrapped up in buttered paper and broiled 
on a quick fire. They may also be larded with salt pork, 
and then broiled with or without being enveloped in paper. 
When broiled and dished, serve them warm with a maitre 
d^hdtel cir ravigote sauce. 

Sautees, — Put six cutlets in a stewpan, laided or not. 



OAMB. 301 

wiUi salt, pepper, eight small oniDBs, two canota, four 
sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, two cloyes, a bay-leaf, a 
gill of broth, and 9ame of water ; set it on a good fire and 
boil gently til] cooked. Dbh the cutlets so that every 
small end or bone rests on the larger end of another, and 
serve with the sance staiiined on them. If more sauce is 
desired, add to it any of the following: cranberry, piquanie^ 
ravigoUj Robert^ or Tartar. 

Haunch^ roasted.^-'AIleT being improved, if liked, re- 
move the thin skin around it and lard it with salt pork ; 
it may be roasted without larding, but it is certainly an irn* 
provement, the meat being naturally dry. Place it on the 
spit before a brisk fire and near it ; baste with melted but- 
ter first, and then with the drippings till done. If it is 
larded, it will require less butter. As soon as a kind of 
crust forms aroxmd the meat, remove it a little firom the 
fire by degrees. Ascertain with a skewer or small knife 
when donp. Yenison is generally served rather underdone, 
when roasted or baked. 

To make the dish more sightly, the skin and hair of 
the lower part of the leg, together with the hoo^ are left 
untouched. To prevent them from burning while it is 
roasting, envelop these parts with a wet towel, which you 
cover with several sheets of buttered or oiled paper. It 
may be necessary to dip the towel in water two or three 
times during the process of roasting. When roasted, 
serve with any of the following sauces : cranberry, piquante^ 
poivradSf ravigote^ Hcbert^ or Tartar ; also with currant- 
jelly. If served with the gravy only, add water-cress and 
lemon-juice or vin^ar. 

Baked, — ^Prepare it as directed for roasting ; then place 
it in a bakepan witii a little cold water, just enough to 
cover the bottom of the pan ; c^rinkle salt and pepper all 



302 GAME. 

over, spread some batter on tlie upper side and put in a 
quick oven. Tom over and baste now and tben till done. 
If the water is absorbed, add more. When baked, serve 
with the same sauces as if roasted, and also with cur- 
rant-jelly and water-cress. 

Saddle, — ^Roast or bake the saddle, and serve it as 
directed for a haunch, with the same sauces, and also with 
water-cress and currant-jelly. 

Shoulder, — Cut the shoulder in fillets and lard them 
slightly. Put in a stewpan four ounces of butter and set 
it on a brisk fire ; when hot, lay the fillets in, and when 
of a golden color add the seasonings in which you have 
improved the saddle, or the same ones if you have not 
done it ; then subdue the fire, wet with a little warm broth, 
simmer till cooked, dish the fillets, strain the sauce on 
them, and serve. It may also be dressed entire, with the 
bones off; but it is more generally done in fillets. It is 
boned like a shoulder of mutton, and roasted or baked, 
and served like a haunch, with the same sauces and with 
currantrjelly or water-cress. 

/S^etoec?.— -Cut the meat in square pieces, about two 
inches in size. Have in a stewpan, and on a good fire, a 
piece of butter the size of a duck's egg; when melted, 
sprinkle in, little by little, a tablespoonful of flour, stirring 
the while with a wooden spoon; when getting rather 
thick, add two ounces of bacon cut in dice, aJso hsdf a pint 
of claret vrine, same of warm water, salt, pepper, a pinch 
of allspice, two shallots chopped fine, or two green onions, 
four or five mushrooms, two cloves of garlic, and six 
onions ; then lay the meat on the whole, and boil gently 
till cooked. Dish the meat, boil the sauce till of a brown- 
ish color, skim off the fat if there is too much of it, take 
out the cloves of garlic, turn the sauce on the meat, and 
serve hot. 



GAME. 303 

With Truffles or Mushrooms, — Any part of yenison, 
baked or roasted, may be served with a garniture of mnsb- 
rooms, or one of tmffles. 

Cold, — ^When you bave some left for tbe next day, 
warm it before serving it, if from a stew ; but if from a 
roasted baoncb, cut in slices and serve cold witb a vinai- 
grette. 

SNAILS. 

A good many are now imported from Europe. 

How to dean and prepare. — Throw tbem in boiling 
water, in wbicb you bave put some wood-asbes; leave 
tbem in till tbey bave tbrown tbeir cover wide open, wbicb 
will take about fifteen minutes ; tben take tbem off, pull 
tbem out of tbe sbell by means of a fork, place tbem in 
lukewarm water, and leave two bours ; next, rub tbem in 
your bands, and tben soak in cold water ; rub tbem agdbt 
in your bands in cold water, two or three times, chang- 
ing tbe water each time, so as to take away most of tbeir 
sliminess. Wash the shells in lukewarm water witb a 
scrubbing-brush, and drsdn tbem when clean. 

Broiled. — ^Knead together and make a paste of a suffi- 
cient quantity of butter, parsley chopped fine, salt, pepper, 
and grated nutmeg; say about two ounces of butter, a 
tablespoonful of parsley, a saltspoonfiil of salt, a pinch of 
pepper, and the same of nutmeg (for two dozen). Put a 
piece of the above paste, tbe size of a kidney bean, in eacb 
shell, tben tbe snails, and at tbe top again tbe same quan- 
tity of paste ; lay tbem one by one close together, in a 
crockery or cast-iron kettle, tbe mouth of tbe snails up, 
and not one upon another ; cover tbe kettle well ; set it 
on a moderate fire, or in a moderately heated oven, and 
leave thus till cooked, which is easily seen by tbe parsley 



304 GAKE. 

begmning to turn blacky or as if fried. Lay them on a 
dish in the same order, and if there is any gr^vy in the 
kettle, pat a part of it in each shell, and serve hot 

In eating them, be carefnl after having taken off the 
snail and eaten it, to turn down the shell, for there is some 
juice in the bottom of it which is delicious ; the best way 
is to drink it as if from the bottom of a glass. 

They can be broiled on a gridiron, but they are not 
as good as in a kettle ; some of the juice is lost, and also 
the flavor. 

Stewed, — ^Put in a stewpan four ounces of butter for 
fifty snails, and set it on a good fire ; when melted, sprinkle 
in it a teaspoonful of flour, stirring a whUe ; then add a 
teaspoonfril of parsley chopped fine, two sprigs of thyme, 
a bay-lea^ a pint of white wine, and then the snails, which 
you have previously put back into their shells; coyer the 
whole with warm broth, boil gently till the sauce is reduced 
and the snails are cooked, and serve them mouth upward, 
and filled with the saaoe. 



VEGETABLES. 



Grexn vegetables must look fresh, and liave nothing 
rotten about them. 

To hail or blanch Green Vegetables. — ^Whatever they 
aie, spinach, green peas, asparagus, etc., put some cold 
water and a little salt on the fire ; clean the vegetable, 
irftsh it if necessary, then drop it in the water at the first 
boil ; keep boiling for a time or till done ; drain, and im- 
mediately drop it in cold water ; drain again before using. 
It is mipossible to tell how long it takes to boil ; it depends 
entirely on the nature of the vegetable: for instance, 
spinach, as well as peas or any other vegetable, according 
to how tender it is, may take from three to twenty minutes 
to cook properly. Dry vegetables, such as beans, peas, 
lentils, etc., are washed or soaked in cold water, drained, 
and then set on the fire with cold water and no salt Salt 
renders beans much harder and retards their cooking. 
Other vegetables that ore neither green nor dry, such as 
carrots, turnips, etc., are generally set on the fire with cold 
water and salt. If prepared in other ways, it is explained 
in the receipts. 

Potatoes are generally steamed ; when they must be 
boiled, it is explained. We recommend to drop the green 
vegetables in the water at the first boil, because, in boil* 



S06 VEGETABLES. 

ing, water evaporates its gases and alkali, and is ihere- 
fore inferior for cooking pnrposes. Green vegetables are 
more acid here than in Europe, on account of the newness 
and richness of the soil; so is some fruit. 

Artichokes. — ^The artichoke we refer to here is the plant 
somewhat resembling a thistle, having a laige, scaly head, 
like the cone of the pine^ree ; the lower part of the leaves 
composing the head, with the broad receptacle underneath, 
is the eatable part It is a native of Sicily, and is an ex- 
cellent and delicate vegetable. It grows well here, and the 
reason why it is not more generally known is because some 
persons who are used to live on coarse food have under* 
rated it — their palates not being fit to appreciate its deli- 
cate flavor. We recommend gardeners and ^rmers to 
cultivate it ; they will find a ready market. 

Sow to eat them raw, — Quarter them, take off the outer 
leaves and choke, and serve with oil, vinegar, mustard, salt, 
and pepper. 

Haw to cook, — Clean them and take off the outer 
leaves, throw them into boiling water, with parsley, salt, and 
pepper (they are cooked when the leaves come off easily), 
then take from the fire and drain, taking care to put them 
upside down. 

The 9amey fried, — ^When cooked as above, cut the 
upper part of the leaves, and then cut them in eight pieces, 
take the choke off, dip each piece in a thin paste made of 
flour, sweet-oil, beaten %^^ vinegar, salt, and pepper, and 
fry them with a little butter. Serve them with sprigs of 
fried parsley around. 

The samej stewed, — ^When cooked as directed above, 
Gut them in four pieces, and trim off the upper part of the 
leaves, take off the choke, and lay them in a stewpan ; 
cover them with broth and set on a moderate fire ; add 



TEOETABLES. 307 

(hon one ounce of batter for six artichokes, one sprig of 
parsley, and two mushrooms cut in slices ; boil ten minutes, 
take the parsley off, and serve the artichokes with the 
mushrooms around; pour the sauce on the whole. 

In Vinaigrette. — Cook, and serve with a vinaigrette. 
The Jerusalem artichokes are dressed like potatoes. 

J[j^ra^rte«.— -This is thought to be a native of Asia. 
The white asparagus sells dearer than the other kinds, 
but we cannot say that it is on account of its better qual- 
ity, it is most likely for being more sightiy when served. 
If it is kept for some time before boiling it, place the 
bunch in about half an inch deep of cold water, the top 
upward, and keep in a cool place. There are only four 
ways of preparing asparagus without changing or destroy- 
ing the natural taste of the plant. The large ones, or 
what is called the first cut, is prepared in vinaigrette^ 
white eaucey and Jried ; the small one, or second cut, is 
cooked en petite poie — ^like green peas. It is better and 
has more taste when' boiled rather underdone, that is, 
taken from the water when still firm ; if boiled till soft, it 
loses its taste and is not crisp. 

To boil, — Cut off some of the white part, so as to have 
the whole of one length if possible ; then scrape the white 
end a little, soak in cold water for a few minutes, and 
dnun. Tie it in small bunches of half a dozen or a dozen, 
according to size, and drop them in boiling water and a 
little salt, at the first boil of the water. Boil tiJl rather 
underdone, take off, drain and drop in cold water imme- 
diately. Drain again, and it is ready to serve. 

JSn Petite Poie, — Cut small asparagus in pieces about 
half an inch long, and blanch them for three minutes. 
Take off and drain ; then put them in a saucepan on the 
fire with two or three tablespoonfuls of broth, stir now and 



^ 



308 TEGETABLB8. 

then for aboat two minates, add a teaspoonful of floor ; 
stir again, and as soon as mixed with the asparagus add 
also about one ounce of butter, salt, pepper, and chopped 
parsley, stir, and, when the butter is melted, serve. 

Fried, — Blanch the asparagus two minutes, drain it ; 
dip each in batter and fry in hot fat Take off with a 
skimmer when done ; and turn into a colander, salt it, and 
senre hot 

In Vindigrette.'^'Ro^ it as directed. When cold, 
serve with a vinaigrette. (This is also called d PhuHe.) 

With White Sauce. — ^While it is boiling, make a white 
sauce; drain the asparagud and serve both, sauce and 
vegetable, warm. The asparagus is not dropped in cold 
water. 

With Cream Sauce. — ^It is prepared and served as with 
a white sauce. 

In Omelet — ^Boil the asparagus as directed, and when 
cool cut it in small pieces about half an inch long, and 
when the omelet is ready to be folded in two, a little 
while before taking from the .fire, place the asparagus in 
the middle, then fold and serve the omelet as if there were 
nothing in it* 

Green or String Beane^ Dwarf or Snap JSeane^ 
French Mdricots^ Pole Beans, Kidney Beans, ^te. — To pre- 
pare them when green and cooked with the pods. — Re- 
move the string or thread that is on both sides, by 
partly breaking one end of the pod and pulling length* 
wise, repeat the same for the other side; cut them in 
pieces half an inch long, soak them in cold water, and 
throw them into boiling water with a little salt Boil them 
till cooked, which you will know by pressing one between 
your fingers to see if tender ; take them from the fire^ 
throw them into cold water to cool, and drain them. 



y£QETABL£S. 309 

Au JU8. — Cook a quart of beans. Pat two ounces of 
Dutter in a stewpan and set it on the fire ; when melted, 
put the beans in with a teaspoonfiil of chopped parsley ; 
stir five minutes ; then add a gUl of broth, salt, and pep- 
per ; simmer twenty minutes, and, just on taking from the 
fire, mix in it two well-beaten yolks of eggs, with the 
juice of half a lemon, and senre. 

Afaitre d^hdteL — ^Put in a stewpan two ounces of but- 
ter, and set it on a good fire ; when melted, put in it a 
quart of beans cooked in water, with a pinch of grated 
nutmeg, half a pint of milk, salt, pepper, and a teaspoon- 
fiil of chopped parsley ; keep stirring continually, boil ten 
minutes, take from the fire, mix in it two beaten yolks of 
eggs, and serve. 

The same, with Onions, — Put two ounces of butter in 
a stewpan and set it on the fire ; when hot, put in it two 
onions cut in slices, and fry them. Then add salt, pepper, 
a pinch of grated nutmeg, a saltspoonful of chopped pars- 
ley, and a quart of beans cooked in water ; also half a 
pint of boiling water ; boil ten minutes, stir with a wooden 
spoon, take from the fire, sprinkle in it a few drops of 
vinegar, and serve. 

The same, in Salad. — Cook the beans in water, as di- 
rected above ; then put a layer of them in a crockery ves- 
sel, the layer to be about one inch thick ; then sprinkle 
on it salt and pepper ; repeat the same process till all your 
beans are in ; cover and leave thus three or four hours ; 
then throw away the water, or drain if convenient ; place 
the beans in a salad-dish, with the sweet-oil, vinegar, and 
parsley necessary ; move like a salad, and serve cold. 

Green, shelled, Lima, or other Beans. — Shell the beans, 
throw them in boiling water with a little salt, and when 
cooked drain them. Put two ounces of batter for a quart of 



810 YEGETABLSS. 

beans in a saacepan, and when melted put Hio beans in with 
salt and pepper ; toss gentlj now and then for three or fonr 
minutes, then add about a teaspoonfbl of vinegar, or the 
juice of half a lemon, and half a teaspoonful of parslej chop- 
ped. Mix and serve warm. Thej may also be prepared as 
string-beans, either aujus^ in maitre cThdtelj or in salad. 

Dry Beans, Lima, White or Colored, — ^Dry beans must 
be soaked in water for some time. Some require to be 
soaked twenty-four hours, others only five or six hours. 
Those that require to be soaked long are not from the 
last harvest, but have been kept for two or more years. 
If you are not sure that the beans (especially the white) 
are from this year's crop, soak them for twenty-four hours 
in cold water, and then drain them. 

To boil. — ^Put the beans in a saucepan with cold water, 
and boil gently till tender. If the water boils away, fill 
up with cold water, but never put any salt to boil dry 
beans, it prevents them from cooking. As soon as boiled 
tender, drain them, and they are ready for use. 

Au jus. — ^When boiled as above, set them on the fire 
in a stewpan with a few tablespoonfuls of gravy or bt^oth, 
salt, and a little butter, stir for two or three minutes, >hen 
add a little chopped parsley, and serve warm. 

Maitre d'hdtel — ^When boiled as above, drain and put 
them in a saucepan with about three ounces of butter for 
a quart of beans, stir now and then, and when the brtter 
is melted, add salt, pepper, a teaspoonftil of chopped pars- 
ley, and a few drops of vinegar ; just mix and serve. 

With Salt Por^.— Boil a quart of beans as directed 
above, and drain them. Cut in dice about half a pound 
of bacon and put it in a saucepan on the fire ; when &bout 
half fried add the beans, mix and stir for one minute, then 
put in a warm oven for about twenty minutes, sti.Ting 



YBGETABLES. 811 

occasionally; when done, sprinkle on it some parsley 
cbopped fine, pepper and salt to taste, if not salt cnongh* 
There are several ways of preparing '' pork and beans/' 
bat the one we give above is the most general in Now 
England. The pork mast neither be too fat nor too ^ean. 
It may be done also with ham and fresh pork. 

With Mutton. — ^Boil as directed aboat three pints of 
white beans and drain them. When the leg of matton is 
aboat half roasted, pat the beans in the dripping-pan, and 
stir occasionally till the meat is done, and serve them with 
it. It makes a very noarishing dish, bat it wonld be 
rather heavy for persons having sedentary avocations. 
Two qaarts of beans woald not be too mach for a good- 
sized leg of mutton. It may also be prepared with any 
other piece of matton ; shoalder, saddle, etc 

Bailed trith Mutton or Pork. — ^Prepare a qaart of beans 
as directed, and then boil them ten minates and drain 
them. Cat in rather large dice about two pounds of 
breast or neck of mutton or the same of pork, and of the 
same pieces, and put meat and beans in a stewpan, cover 
well with cold water ; season with a bunch of seasonings 
composed of five or six sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a 
bay-lea^ and two cloves, salt, pepper, a little nutmeg 
grated, a carrot cut in three or four pieces, two onions, 
and a piece of turnip. Boil gently till the whole is 
thoroughly cooked; remove the seasonings, and serve 
meat and beans together. This makes also a nourishing 
dish and not an expensive one. The nutritive qualities 
of beans are very well known, and very much exaggerated 
too. Even Professor Liebig once said that ^' four quarts 
of beans and two pounds of corned beef or pork boiled 
to rags, in fifty quarts of water, will furnish a good mea] 
for forty men." 



312 VEGETABLES. 

We mnst say that we have not been able to try the 
experiment, bnt we sbonld like very mncli to see what 
kind and how mnch work forty men wonld do, and for how 
.ong, with such a diet There are many thiogs that look 
or seem well, and even magnificent in' theory, thongb en- 
tirely impracticable. It sonnds well, especially to those 
who do not understand the meaning of it, to say that we 
feed mostly on gluten, albumen, gelatine, etc., and that we 
require so many ounces of carbon, oxygen, etc, in twenty- 
four hours. Every thing that we eat may be, with the 
exception of salt, turned into charcoal ; but no one has yet 
been known to feed on it. 

Colored Beans, stewed. — Soak, boil five minutes, and 
drain a quart of beans. Pat in a stewpan half a pound of 
bacon and set it on the fire ; five minutes after, put the 
beans in, with four small onions, salt, and pepper, boil 
gently till cooked, and drain. Put two ounces of butter 
in a stewpan on the fire ; when melted, sprinkle in it a 
teaspoonfiil of flour, same of chopped parsley, then the 
beans, without the bacon and onions ; toss now and then 
for ten minutes, then add half a pint of claret wine, the 
same of the water in which they were cooked, boil gently 
twenty minutes ; then put in it also the bacon and onions, 
boil five minutes longer, and serve the whole on the same 
dish. 

Beets, stewed. — Clean and wash well, but do not skin 
them. Put in a crockery vessel a layer of rye straw, 
moisten it slightly, place the beets on it, cover the vessel, 
and place it in a slow oven for five or six hours ; cool and 
skin them. When cooked, cut them in thin slices. Put 
butter in a stewpan, and when melted sprinkle in it a pinch 
of flour, a teaspoonfdl of chopped parsley, salt, and pep- 
per, then the beets ; simmer twenty minutes, add a few 
drops of vinegar, and serve. 



YEGETABLBB. 818 

Cabbages — to bciL — ^Take off tlie outer leaves, clean, cut 
in four pieces, free it from stump and stalk, and drop it in 
boiling water with a little salt and a piece of charcoal 
Boil slowly till tender, and drain. Cabbage contains some 
sulphur, and evaporates an unpleasant odor while boiling, 
and especially while boiling fast. By putting a piece of 
charQoal in the pot, it does not smell as mucK 

With Bacon, — ^When boiled and drained, put the cab- 
bage in a stewpan with bacon, sausage, and a piece of 
breast of mutton ; cover with cold water, season with three 
or four sprigs of parsley, a carrot, a clove, a Kttle nutmeg, 
salt and pepper ; boil till the whole is well cooked, remove 
the seasonings and drain ; dish the cabbage, put the meat 
on it, and serve warm. 

With Milk, or a la Creme, — ^Boil and drain the cab- 
bage as directed above. Put two ounces of butter in a 
saucepan, set it on a good fire, and when melted put the 
cabbage in with salt and pepper. Sprinkle on it a tear 
spoonful of flour, add half a pint of cream or good milk; 
keep stirring with a wooden spoon during the whole pro- 
cess ; boil gently till the sauce is reduced, and serve warm. 

Stewed, — ^BoH and drain two large heads of cabbage, 
and cut them very fine. Put about three ounces of butter 
in a saucepan on the fire, and when, melted put the cab- 
bage in and stir for five minutes ; then add salt, pepper, 
and a pinch of flour ; wet with a pint of broth, boil till 
cooked and the sauce reduced, then serve warm. 

A rAllemande. — ^Blanch for ten minutes some white or 
green cabbage and drain it. Put six ounces of salt pork, 
cut in dice, in a saucepan on the fire, and when partly 
fried put two or three small heads of cabbage in, stir, and 
vl):en done, add a little gravy, and serve warm. 

With Appfes.-^Blmch for about ten ipinutee a head 



814 VEGETABLES. 

of cabbage and drain it Pnt two or three ounces of bai> 
ter in a saucepan on the fire, and put the cabbage in wben 
tbe butter is melted witb four or five apples peeled, quar- 
tered, and cored ; also a little salt and a little sugar, about 
half a pint of water or broth, boil gently till done, and 
serve as warm as possible. Generally, cabbages are better 
when prepared at least one day in advance, and then 
warmed in a ba$7i^marie before serving ; a little butter may be 
added while it ia warming. Any kind of cabbage is pre- 
pared as directed in the above ways. 

Bed Cabbage in Salad. — ^Take a hard head of red cab- 
bage, and when all the outer leaves are removed, see if it 
is clean, but do not wash it ; if a cabbage is not clean, do 
not use it for salad (as you want a hard one, and a hard 
one is always clean when the outer leaves are taken off). 
Then cat it in four pieces, trim off the stump and coarse 
ends of the leaves ; cut it as thin as possible, as in making 
sour-krout, put it in a crockeiy vessel, with salt, vinegar, 
and popper sprinkled on, cover and leave thus from four 
to dx hours ; then throw away the water or vinegar, dress 
as another salad, with oil and vinegar, and serve. 

The same, stewed.'-^'Blsaich the cabbage for about ten 
minutes and drain it ; then put it in a saucepan with about 
an ounce of butter and stir for five minutes, when add a 
little salt, a little sugar, a gill of claret wiae, and same of 
broth or water. Boil gently till done, and serve. 

Stuffed.'^'RemoYe the outer leaves of either a green^ 
white, or red cabbage, see that it be clean, then put it in a 
bowl, and pour boiling water on it. Leave it so till the 
oaves are soft and pliable, when take off and drain. Cut 
off the stump carefully, place the cabbage on the tablci 
Uie top upward, then open it gently by spreading the 
leaves all around without breaking them; then, com- 



VEGETABLES. 815 

mencing with the centre leaves, put some sausage-meat 
between the leaves, finishing with the outer ones and 
raising them ; that is, bringing the cabbage to its original 
shape as much as possible, and then tie it all around with 
twine. Put in a saucepan large enough to hold the cab- 
bage easily, but not too large, a little salt pork, cut in 
small dice, rind of salt pork and trimmings of butcher's- 
meat that you may have, but if none at all, put a little 
lean salt pork or bacon, and cut in dice also, half a carrot 
in slices, two onions in slices also, and then the cabbage 
on the whole. Half cover it with broth ; water may be 
used instead of broth, but it makes a very inferior dish, 
while with broth it is unquestionably an excellent one for 
those who like cabbages. Simmer for two or three hours, 
according to the size of the cabbage. A piece of sausage 
may be placed on the cabbage abo and cooked with it. 
Then didi the cabbage, remove the twine tying it ; place 
the sausage around and also the salt pork if liked, strain 
the sauce on the whole, and serve warm. If the water or 
broth boils away while it is cooking, add more. 

8our4er<mt, — Soak in cold water for some time, chang- 
ing the water three or four times ; then put it in a stewpan 
with a pound of bacon, two ounces of sausages, and two 
ounces of lard to every quart of sour-krout, salt, and pep- 
per ; wet with broth, or with water, boil from five to six 
hours, and serve with the bacon and sausages on it. When 
cooked as above, but with water instead of broth, drain it 
well, put the bacon and sausages away in a warm place ; 
then put the sour-krout in a stewpan with about one pint 
of white wine to a quart of sour-krout, set it on the fire and 
boil gently till the wine is nearly all absorbed or boiled 
away. Serve as above with the bacon and sausages on it 
It is almost always prepared with wine in many parts of 
Germany, 



816 VEG£TABLEB. 

CardocfM. — ^The white part only is good to eat Oeaa 
well and scrape the sides; cut in pieces two inches and a 
half in length, and throw them in boiling water with a lit- 
tie salt ; boil them till their sliminess comes off easily ; 
then take from the fire, pour cold water in, and by means 
of a towel remove the sliminess; soak in cold water 
and drain them. Lay a few slices of bacon in a stewpan, 
place the cardoons on them, and again lay slices of bacon 
on ; season with two onions, two sprigs of parsley, one of 
thyme, a bay-leaf, and a clove, salt, pepper, and the juice 
of half a lemon ; cover with water and set on a good fire ; 
boil till cooked ; take from the fire and drain the cardoons 
only, throwing away the seasonings. Put the cardoons^ 
back in the stewpan, in which you have left the bacon ; 
add two or three tablespoonfdls of broth, and two of Es- 
pagnole sauce ; set on a slow fire, and simmer till the sauce 
is reduced to a proper thickness. Have at the same time 
in a pan on the fire a piece of ox-marrow, and when melted 
mix it with the sauce at the moment you take the car- 
doons from the fire, and serve hot either with or without 
the bacon. 

Carrots — how to clean and prepare <Aem.— Trim off all 
the small roots, wash them well, scrape them gently, taking 
care to scrape the skin only ; then wash well, drain, and 
cut them either in slices a quarter of an inch thick, in fil- 
lets or strips, or with a vegetable spoon, according to 
fancy. 

To boil. — ^When prepared, put them in a saucepan 
with a little salt, more cold water than is necessary to 
cover them, set on the fire, boil gentiy till tender, and 
drain. It is impossible to tell how lopg it takes, as it de- 
pends how young and tender they are. 

In Bechamel, — Clean, cut, and boil about a quart of 



VEGirrABLBS. Zlt 

earrots as directed and dnun them. Mix well together in 
a saucepan, on the table, abont two ounces of butter with 
a tablespoonfol of flour, add about one pint of milk, set on 
the Are, stir slowly till it cornea to a boil, when turn the 
carrots in, stir for about one minute^ add also a little salt, 
same of sugar, two yolks of eggs ; stir and mix well, give 
one boil, and serve warm. 

A la Crhnej or with Cream, — ^Proceed as for a Becha- 
md in eyery particular except tihat you use cream instead 
of milk 

In Faulette, — ^Proceed as in Bechamel with the excep- 
tion that you use broth instead of milkj and add a little 
parsley, chopped fine, just before serving. 

Mnes fferhe8.^-C\esjiy cut, and boil as directed, about 
a quart of carrots. Set a saucepan on the Are with two 
ounces of butter in it, and when melted fiy in it a piece 
of onion chopped fine. When the onion is fried add a 
pint of broth or water ; boil about five minutes, put the 
carrots in with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, give one 
boil, take from the fire, add a few drops of lemon-juice, 
and serve as warm as possible, with salt to taste. 

Aujus, — ^Proceed as for fines herhes^ except that you 
do not use onions, and put half a pint of broth or gravy. 

Glazed, — Clean, cut with a vegetable spoon, and boil 
as directed, about a quart of carrots, and dram them* 
Put three ounces of butter in a frying-pan and set it on 
the fire. As soon as the hutter is melted turn the carrots 
in, toss gently for five or six minutes, then add a little 
over a gill of rich gravy, sugar to taste, toss again now 
and then till the gravy is half boiled away, and use. 
Glazed carrots are seldom served alone, but most generally 
used as garnishing around a piece of meat 

Stewed. — Glean, and cut carrots m slices, and then 



318 VBaETABLES. 

blancli them for about five minutes, and drain them. Sot 
a stewpau on the fire with about two ounces of butter in 
it ; as soon as melted put the carrots in with salt, pep- 
per, a pinch of sugar, half a pint of broth; boil gently 
till cooked, take from the fire, add and mix with the car- 
rots a little chopped parsley, and serve warm. 

With Sugar. — Clean and slice about a quart of car- 
rots, and blanch them for five minutes, and then drain 
them. Pat two ounces of butter in a stewpan, and set it 
on a good fire, and when melted lay the carrots in with 
Bait, pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and about half a 
pint of broth ; sprinkle in it, while stirring with a wooden 
spoon, about a teaspoonful of flour, and boil gently till 
cooked. Take from the fire, mix a good tablespoonful of 
sugar with two yolks of eggs, and those again with the 
rest, and serve. 

Cauliflowers and Broccolir^how to prepare and cook 
them in vfater, — Clean and wash them well, throw into boil- 
ing water with a little salt and a little flour, boil till cooked, 
and drain them. 

Sotjo to serve with Cheese. — Put them on a crockery 
dish when prepared ; pour on a white sauce, in which 
you have mixed a little grated cheese ; then dust the whole 
with fine bread-crumbs ; after which you take a soft brush 
or a feather, which you dip in lukewarm butter, and put 
a thin coat of it all over Hie cauliflowers ; then place the 
dish in a quick oven for ten minutes, and serve as they 
are, i. e., in the dish in which they have been cooked. 
This is also called au gratin. 

In Bichamel, — ^Boil the cauliflowers till done to your 
taste, drain immediately and place them on the dish, the 
top upward. While it is boiling make a Bechamel sauce 
and turn it over the cauliflowers as soon as dished, and 



VEGETABLES. 319 

•erve as warm as posable. Gauliflowery like asparagas, 
has a better taste when rather underdone; it is more 
crisp. 

Au Beurre Noir {vnth Brown Butter). — ^When boiled, 
drained, and dished, turn a brown butter over them, and 
serve warm. 

With a Cream-Sauce, — Glean, prepare, boil, and drain 
the cauliflowers as directed above, then dish them also with 
the top upward. While they are boiling, make a cream- 
sauce and turn it over the cauliflowers as soon as they are 
dished, and serve warm. As they must be served warm, 
if the sauce is ready before the cauliflowers are cooked, 
keep it in a. bain-marie; if the cauliflowers are cooked be- 
fore the sauce is ready, keep them in a warm place. 

With a White Sauce, — ^Proceed as with a cream-sauce 
in every particular, turning a white instead of a cream- 
sauce over them ; serve warm. 

Fried* — Clean, prepare, and boil them for about five 
minutes, that is, till they are about half cooked ; then dip 
them in batter for frying vegetables, and fry them in hot 
&t. Take them off with a skimmer, turn them into a 
colander, sprinkle salt all over, and serve as hot as pos- 
sible. They are excellent fried, but they must not be al- 
lowed to cooL 

With a Tomato-Sauce. — Commence by making a to- 
mato-sauce, as it requires longer than preparing the cauli- 
flowers. When the sauce is nearly made, boil the cauli- 
flower as directed, dish il^ and then turn the sauce over 
it, and serve warm. 

Au juSy or stewed. — ^Prepare, boil the cauliflowers till 
half done, and drain them. Place them carefiiUv in a stew- 
pan, the top upward, and set on the fire with a little fat 
The fire must be rather slow. Stir gently and very carefully 



B20 VEGETABLES. 

m order not to break tBem, and, about five mumtes aftei 
they are on the fire, add half a gill of broth for a middling* 
sized cauliflower, salt, and pepper ; simmer till done, stir- 
ring now and then daring the process ; dish them, turn 
the sauce all over, and serve warm. 

In Salad. — ^When boiled and drained, leave them in 
the colander till perfectly cold, then put them in the salad- 
dish with salt, pepper, vinegar, and oil, move carefully m 
order not to break it, and serve. A salad of cauliflowers 
is not served as a salad of greens, but as an entremet, like 
other vegetables, and as if prepared in any other way. 
It is an excellent dish for break&st. 

Celery — stewed. — Cut off the green part or top of 
about half a dozen heads of celery ; cleanse and trim 
them, but leave them whole. Set a saucepan of cold 
water and a little salt on the fire, and at the first boD drop 
the heads of celery in, boil till tender and 'drain. Put the 
celeiy back in the pan with about half a pint of broth ; 
boil gently about five minutes, when add two or three 
tablespoonfuls of good meat-gravy, a teaspoonful of 
meuniere, salt to taste, give one boil, and serve warm. 

Fried, — Cut the celery in pieces about two inches 
long, wash, drain, and wipe dry. Dip them in batter for 
firying vegetables, drop in hot fat, and turn them into a 
colander when Med ; sprinkle salt over, and serve hot. 
Soup or turnip-rooted celery, after being cleaned and prop- 
erly scraped, is prepared like table celery as above, either 
stewed or fried. 

Chiccory. — Chiccory, or succory, or endive, is gener- 
ally prepared as a salad, if *t be that with the broad leaves, 
or the curled endive. 

Stowed. — Clean, wash, and drain it Blanch it for 
about one minute, and drain agaiD. Then put it in a 



YSaETABLBS. 321 

«iewpaii with a little broth, and simmer till cooked ; then 
add a little gravy, salt and pepper to taste,, and serve. It 
makes a good entremet. The wild chiccory is prepared in 
the same way. 

With Milk. — ^Remove the outer leaves and «ee that 
it is perfectly clean, cut in two or four, wash well in 
several waters, and throw into boiling water with a little 
salt ; boil half an hour, take it out, throw into cold water, 
leave two minutes, and drain; press on it the drainer so 
as to extract all the water from it, after which chop it fine. 
Put about two ounces of butter in a stewpan; when 
melted, sprinkle in it a teaspoonful of flour, also salt and 
pepper; then put the endive in, say three or four heads, 
stir with a wooden spoon for ten minutes, after which time 
you beat two eggs with milk, and put them in the stew- 
pan ; keep stirring fifteen minutes longer, and serve. 

CorriF'^weei — ^The simplest and best way is to boil 
it, and then eat it with butter, salt, and pepper. When 
boiled with any mealH30up, or with pot-aur-feu^ it is deli- 
cious tO/ eat, and gives a good taste to the broth ; it is 
also eaten with butter, salt, and jpepper, as above. 

Stewed. — Shell it and then drop it in boiling water 
and a little salt, boil till nearly done ; then drain and put 
it back on the fire with a little broth ; boil gently for 
about ten minutes, add a little gravy, salt and pepper to 
taste, and serve warm. 

In Succotash. — ^This popular Indian dish, is very sim- 
ply made by boiling com and green Lima beans together, 
with salt and pepper. The two can be prepared together 
as stewed com, but it makes a very inferior dish. 

Cucumbers. — ^Peel them, split them in four, take the 
seeds out, cut in pieces about one inch long, throw them 
mto boiling water, with a little salt ; boil till cooked, drain, 
14* 



322 YEGBTABIiBS. 

and pnt them on a towel so as to dry them well ; then put 
butter in a frying-pan, and set it on a good fire ; when 
hot, put in it some chopped parsley, salt, and pepper, two 
minutes after put the cucumbers in it, 67 a few minutes, 
tossing them now and then, and serve. 

The samey ^(eiiredf.— Cook in boiling water, and dry 
them as above ; then put them in a stewpan with a little 
butter kneaded with fiour, add salt, pepper, and a pinch 
of grated nutmeg ; moisten with broth, simmer to reduce 
the sauce ; take from the fire, mix the yolks of two eggs 
in the sauce ; add to it a few drops of vinegar, and serve 
them. 

Stuffed. — ^Soak a piece of bread in cold water and 
then squeeze the water out of it, the size to be according to 
how many cucumbers are to be stuffed, or how large they 
are. Split large cucumbers in two, lengthwise, remove 
the seeds and some of the fleshy parts indde, by means 
of a small iron spoon. Put a little butter in a saucepan 
on the fire, and when melted fry in it a piece of chopped 
onion. When the onion is fried, put in the pan what 
you have removed from the inside of the cucumbers, and 
which you have chopped a little, stir for about five min« 
utes, and then add the soaked bread, stir and mix well 
with the rest ; add also salt, pepper, a little grated nut- 
meg and a little gravy ; stir again for about one minute, 
take from the fire ; fill the cucumbers, that is, each half 
with the mixture ; place them in a pan, the mixture up- 
ward ; dust with bread-crumbs, put a little butter on the 
top of each, and bake. Before serving, a little gravy may 
be sprinkled aU over ; serve warm. 

In Sors-cToeuvre. — ^Peel the cucumbers, cut them in 
slices slantwise, and salt them for two or three hourSi 
Drain them, and then season with oil, vinegar, pepper, 
and parsley chopped fine. 



VSGETABLEB. 323 

Pickled cacmnbers are seryed whole with small onions^ 
also picMed, aa a hors-iTceuvre. 

Dandelion. — ^Dandelion is a very healthy greens in the 
spring, either cooked or raw. Clean and wash them well 
several times, as it nearly always contains fine sand be- 
tween the leaves ; leave them in cold water abont two 
hoars, and drain them ; throw them into boiling water and 
salt ; boil twenty minutes if yoang, and thirty minutes if 
fhll grown ; then put them in a colander, press on them 
so as to extract all the water, after which chop them fine ; 
put about two ounces of butter in a stewpan, for two 
quarts, and set it on a quick fire ; when melted, sprinkle in 
it a teaspoonful of flour, salt and pepper, then put the dan- 
delion in, stir for ten minutes, after which wet it with 
broth ; keep stirring for about fifteen minutes longer, and 
serve. 

Ugg-Plant'^hroiled, — Split the egg-plant in two 
lengthwise, peel it and remove the seed. Put it in a 
crockery vessel and sprinkle salt on it ; leave it thus near- 
ly an hour, then take it off, dip it in egg beaten with salt, 
pepper, and chopped parsley, then boil it ; serve with a 
maitre cThdtel sauce. 

Fried. — ^Peel and cut in slices, lay the slices in a ves- 
sel, sprinkling salt over every layer, and leave thus half 
an hour and drain. Dip the slices in batter for frying 
vegetables, drop them in hot fat, and turn them into a 
colander when fried; sprinkle salt all over, and serve. 

SautL — Put the slices with salt half an hour m a 
vessel as directed in the above. Drain them, and then 
fry them on both sides with a little butter in a frying-pan. 
Serve warm, with salt and pepper to taste. 

Stuffed, — Proceed as for stuffed cucumbers in every 
particular. 



824 VEGETABLES. 

Hominy, — Hominy is prepared in different way», 
some make it in cakes, others like mnsh. The following 
is, however, the general way of preparing it : boil it for 
aboat three bonrs with water or milk, also butter, salt, and 
pepper ; then mix with it some well-beaten eggs, fry or 
broU, or even cook it in an oven, and serve for breakflGist. 

Leeks. — Clean, wash, and drain ; throw them in boil- 
ing water with a little salt, boil fifteen minutes, and drain ; 
press on them in the drainer, so as to extract all the water, 
then chop them fine. Pat two ounces of butter in a stew- 
pan ; when melted, sprinkle in it a teaspoonfal of flour, 
salt, and pepper, then add the leeks. Stir with a wooden 
spoon for ten minutes ; after that beat two eggs with milk, 
and put them in a stewpan ; keep stirring fifteen minutes 
longer, and serve. 

Lentils. — ^This excellent vegetable, much superior to 
beans or peas, is not generally known. Most of what we 
have here comes from Germany ; a little comes from France 
and Switzerland. Many persons think them much dearer 
than beans or peas, not knowing that they swell three 
or four times their size when soaked in water before cook- 
ing them. They are prepared like dry beans in every 
way. A purie of lentils is excellent witb almost every 
kind of meat, and it also makes a good potage. It has all 
the nutritive qualities of the bean. 

Lettuce, — Cos lettuce, cabbage lettuce, butter lettuce, 
curled Silesia, white or green lettuce, et6. Besides being 
served as salad, all the above, when properly dressed, 
make an excellent entremet. 

To prepare, — Take off the outer leaves, that is, all 
those that are too green or too hard, then clean and 
wash well, but without cutting it off, or without detach- 
ing the leaves. To stew lettuce, select bard heads, so that 



YBaSTABLES. 325 

ihey can be cleansed withont detaching the leaves. When 
cleaned, drop the heads m boiling water and a little salt, 
boil about five or ten minutes, according to how tender 
the lettuce is, and drain dry. 

Stewed, — ^When cleaned and prepared, sprinkle on the 
top of each, salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg; then 
tie each head with a string. Place in a stewpan two or 
three slices of bacon, put the heads of lettuce in, season 
with two sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a bay-leaf, and 
a clove, also salt and pepper ; cover with water, and sim- 
mer about two hours in an oven ; then take them from 
the pan, drain, pressing on them to extract all the water, 
and put them on a dish, the top upward. Have butter in 
a stewpan, and on a good fire ; when melted, sprinkle in 
it a teaspoonfal of flour, stirring with a wooden spoon ; 
subdue the fire, add a little mUk, and stir and simmer ten 
minutes longer ; take from the fire, mix in the beaten yolks 
of two eggs, pour it on the lettuce, which you have kept 
warm, and serve. 

Another way. — When prepared, chop it fine. Put in 
a stewpan, for four heads of lettuce, three ounces of but- 
ter, and set it on the fire ; when melted, put the lettuce 
in with a little chopped chervil, stir now and then till 
cooked ; then sprinkle in it a pinch of flour, wet with 
broth, boil ten minutes longer, keeping it stirred, and 
serve. (For a salad of lettuce, see Salad.) 

Stuffed. — ^Proceed as for a stuffed cabbage. 

Mushrooms. — ^Preserved mushrooms are used for 
sauces only. The first thing to consider very attentively 
in mushrooms is, not to eat any that you do not know to 
be good to eat There are so many kinds of good and 
bad ones, that it is necessary to be very careful about even 
the edible ones, or the ones known as such when young ; 



326 YEGBTABLES. 

it iB better and safer never to use them when old ; they 
are considered old when the comb underneath is black be- 
fore picking, while when young it is of a pink color. 

^ow to clean and prepare them, — Cut off the lower 
part of the stem ; skin them with a steel knife, commen- 
cing at the edge and finishing at the top ; cut in pieces, 
put them in cold water, to which you have added a few 
drops of vinegar ; leave them in it two hours, moving 
them occasionally ; then wash well in two or three waters, 
and drain. 

When cleaned and prepared thus, they are ready to 
be used in sauces, or to cook. 

Broiled. — If you have large mushrooms, clean and 
prepare as above, except that you do not cut them ; but 
when drained, put them upside down on a greased grid- 
iron, and on a moderate fire ; place a little butter around 
the stem upon the comb, and when done place them on 
a dish which you have warmed in advance, and in the 
same position they had on the gridiron ; put again around 
the stem some butter kneaded with a little chopped pars- 
ley, salt, and pepper, and serve. They must be served 
warm. 

As an ornament, you may make, with common white 
note-paper, as many little square boxes as you have mush- 
rooms to broil ; grease them with butter, put the mush- 
rooms in, set them on the gridiron, and on a moderate 
fire, and serve them in the boxes when done. 

!Z%« same^ stewed. — ^When cleaned and prepared as 
directed, and drained, throw a quart of them in boiling 
water, to which you have added a few drops of vinegar ; 
boil five minutes, take them out, put them in cold water 
to cool, drain and dry them in a towel. Put two ounces 
of butter in a stewpan and set it on a good fire ; when 



YXGETABLES. 327 

melted, sprinMe in it a pincli of flour, add also a sprig of 
parsley, two small onions, a little piece of carrot, a bay- 
leaf, salt, and pepper, coyer with broth, and boil till the 
onions are cooked ; then take from the pan onions, pars- 
ley, and bay-lea^ and pat the mushrooms in instead ; boil 
slowly about twenty minutes, take from the fire, add to 
the sauce the yolks of two eggs well beaten with a few 
drops of yinegar, and serre warm. 

Mushroom Catsup. — Clean and wash them well, stems 
and all ; cut them in two or four pieces ; then place the 
pieces in a crockery vessel, sprinkling salt on every layer 
of mushrooms, and leave thus twenty-four hours. Take 
them out and press them well, so as to take all the juice 
out, which you bottle at once, and cork. Put the mush- 
rooms back in the vessel, and twenty-four hours after press 
them again ; and again put the juice in bottles, and the 
mushrooms in the vessel, and repeat this process again 
after another twenty-four hours. Then mix well together 
the juice of the three pressings ; add to it pepper, allspice, 
one clove (or more, according to the quantity) broken in 
pieces ; boil the whole, skim off the scum as long as you 
see any on the surface, and strain. Bottle when cool ; 
put in each bottle two cloves and a pepper-corn, cork air- 
tight, put in a cool and dry place, and it will keep for 
years. 

Dried. — ^Dried mushrooms are imported from Italy, 
they come cheaper than the preserved ones in cans, and 
are as good for brown sauces. Soak them in water over 
night ; drain them, and they are ready for use. 

Onions h la Crhne. — {With Cream.) — Only small 
white onions are prepared h la crime. Have water and a 
ittle salt on the fire, and drop two dozen small white 
onions into it at the first boil. Wben cooked, drain, 



828 YBaETABLBS. 

and wipe tLem diy carefully, in <»rder not to bruise them« 
Set a sancepan on the fire with abont two oances of batter 
in it, and when melted pat the onions in, stirring gently 
for two or three minntes, then tarn aboat a gill of cream 
in, little by litUe, stirring the while, and as soon as the 
whole is in take from the fire, salt to taste, and serve hot. 

Glazed, — ^Peel a dozen of middling-fiized onions and 
pnt them in a saucepan with four oances of batter, and set 
them on a slow fire ; stir occasioDally till they are about 
three-quarters done, when add about two ounces of pow- 
dered sugar, stir now and then and finish the cooking. 
When done and well browned all around, add one or two 
tablespoonfuls of good meat-gravy, keep a few minutes on 
a rather brisk fire in order to reduce the sauce, but keep 
stirring and use. Onions prepared that way are excellent, 
and generally used to decorate meat. 

Stewed. — Clean a quart of small onions, throw them 
in boiling water, add two sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, 
a clove, a bay-lea^ a little piece of nutmeg, a clove of gar- 
lic, salt, and pepper; boil twenty minutes, dnun the onions 
only, and throw away the seasonings. Put two ounces of 
butter in a stewpan on a good fire, and when melted 
iprinkle in it a teaspoonful of flour ; then add the onions, 
Kover with half broth and half white wine, boil gently till 
well cooked and the sauce reduced, serve warm. It is a 
very wholesome dish. 

Parsnips. — Sauties. — Scrape, wash, drain, and put about 
two quarts of parsnips in a saucepan with cold water and 
a little salt, set on the fire and boil till done, then drain. 
Cut the parsnips in slices, put two ounces of butter in a 
frying-pan, and when melted put the sliced turnips in, toss 
gently till they are of a fine golden color, then add salt 
and pepper to taste, turn over a dish, sprinkle chopped 
oarsley all over, and serve warm. 



TEOBTABLBS. 829 

Stewed.'^CT&fe, clean, i?asli, boil, and drain as above 
directed, about two quarts of parsnips. Put tbem imme- 
diately is to a stewpan with salt, pepper, and broth enough 
to about half coyer them, boil gently for fifteen minutes, 
and serve the whole as it is. They may also be prepared 
in paulette, the same as turnips. 

Peas with Bacon. — ^Pnt in a stewpan on the fire four 
ounces of bacon cut in dice (for one quart of peas), and 
toss and fry it for about five minutes, then add the peas 
after having blanched them from five to ten minutes, ac- 
cording to how tender they are; stir for two minutes and 
add half a pint of broth or water, also a bunch of season- 
ings composed of two or three sprigs of parsley, half a one 
of Ihyme, and a piece of bay-leaf; stir again and mix, and 
then add also two or three sipall onions, salt, and pepper ; 
boil hatf an hour, remove the seasonings, and serve peas 
and salt pork. A small sausage may be added for those 
who like the taste of it. 

Plain hailed. — ^Put a saucepan on the fire with water 
and salt in it, and at the first boU drop two quarts of 
peas in it; boil gently till done, and then drain. As 
soon as they are in the colander, just toss them a little, 
turn them over a dish, and put four ounces of butter on the 
top, salt, and pepper, then place the dish in the oven with 
the door open, tiiat is, just to keep them warm and allow 
the butter to melt, stir for one or two minutes, and serve 
warm* 

With Lettuce. — Blanch a quart of peas for about five 
minutes, and drain them. Blanch a head of lettuce for one 
minute. Put peas and lettuce in a saucepan with one 
ounce of butter, stir gently on the fire for about one min- 
ute, and then add a little broth or water, two or three sprigs 
of parsley, salt, and pepper; boil slowly till done, and 



330 YEGETABLBS. 

serve warm. The parsley may be served, or removed just 
before serving, according to taste. The lettuce is always 
served with the peas. 

Aujtis. — Boil the peas as directed for plain boiled^ 
then put them back on the fire with a little butter, stir for 
one minute, add about three tablespoonfuls of gravy to a 
quart of peas, salt and pepper, give one boil, and serve. 

With ffam, — ^Blanch two quarts of peas and drain 
them. Put them in a saucepan with half a pound of ham, 
cut in dice, half cover them with water, and boil gently 
till done. If the water boils away, add a little more ; serve 
warm. 

Canned peas are prepared in the same way as above. 

A VAngUme. — ^K the peas are fresh, blanch them ; if 
they are preserved, drain them only. Put the peas in a 
saucepan with about one ounce of butter for a pint, set on 
the fire, stir gently till thoroughly warm, add chopped 
parsley and a yolk of egg, and serve. 

Au Sucre {with Sugar), — Set the peas on the fire, the 
same as above, add about one ounce of sugar, stir also tiU 
warm ; take from the fire, stir a yolk of Qgg in, and serve. 

Dry Peas and Split Peas. — ^Dry and split peas are 
prepared and served in the same and every way like dry 
heans^ with the exception that they require to be soaked 
only for a few hours before cooking them. 

Potatoes»^To select. — ^As a general rule, the smaller 
the eye the better the potatoes. By cutting off a piece 
from the larger end you ascertain if they are sound ; they 
must be white, reddish, bluish, etc., according to the 
species. K spotted, they are not sound, and therefore 
very inferior. There are several kinds, and all of them 
are good when sound or coming from a proper soiL Use 
the kind you prefer, or those that are better fit for the way 



TEGSni'ABLKS. 331 

tliey are intended to be served. To inaah or to make a 
purSe^ etc., every kind is good. To serve whole or in 
dice, or in pieces like carpels of oranges, those called 
Mercers and the like, are preferable, because they do not 
bniise so easily. 

To hoiL — BeiDg naturally watery, potatoes should never 
be cooked by boiling except when wanted very white, as 
for croquettes. When boiled whole, put them of an even 
size as much as possible, in order to cook them evenly. 
They are better, more mealy, when steamed or baked, but 
those who have no steamer must, of course, boil themu 
Cover them with cold water, set on the fire and boil till 
done, then pour off all the water, put the pan back on a 
slow fire for five minutes and well covered ; then use the 
potatoes. 

To steam, — ^Place them above a kettle of boiling water, 
in a kind of drainer made for that purpose, and adapted 
to the kettle. The drainer must be covered tight. They 
cook as fast as by boiling, the degree of heat being the 
same. When steamed the skin is very easily removed. 

To jprepare. — ^If they are to be boiled, or steamed, or 
baked, it is only necessary to wash them. If wanted 
peeled, as for frying, etc., tiben commence by cuttmg off 
the germs or eyes ; if young and tender, take the skin off 
with, a scrubbing-brush and drop immediately in cold 
water to keep them white ; if old, scrape the skin off with 
a knife, for the part immediately under the skin con- 
tains more nutriment than the middle, and drop in cold 
water also. K wanted cut, either in dice, or like carpels 
of oranges, or any other way, cut them above a bowl of 
cold water, so that they drop into it, for if kept exposed 
to the air they turn reddish and lose their nutritive quali* 
ties. 



332 VEGICTABLBS. 

A VAllemande, — Steam, peel, and slice the potatoes. 
Cut some bread in thin slices, and fry bread and potatoes 
Tvith a little butter and turn the Tvhole in a bowl, dust well 
with sugar, pour a little milk all over and bake for about 
fifteen minutes ; serve warm. 

A VAnglaise. — Steam or boil about a quart of potatoes 
apd then peel and sKce them. Put two ounces of buttei 
in a fiying-pan on the fire, and put the potatoes in when 
melted, toss them for about ten minutes, add salt, pepper, 
a little grated nutmeg, and serve hot. 

A la haHgouU, — ^Peel some potatoes aud cook them 
whole in broth ; when done take them off carefully, so as 
not to break or bmise them, and drain. Have some oil 
in a frying-pan and on a quick fire, and when hot lay the 
potatoes in ; move gently to fry them all around, and then 
dish them, sprinkling salt, pepper, and vinegar, all over ; 
serve warm. 

Bechamel. — Steam or boil and peel some potatoes, 
then slice them and place on a dish ; have a Bkhamel 
sauce ready, turn it over the potatoes, and serve warm. 

^nH7e(^»-^Steam, peel and slice the potatoes. Lay the 
slices on a gridiron, and place it over a rather slow fire ; 
have melted butter, and spread some over the slices of 
potatoes with a brush; as soon as the under part is broiled, 
turn each slice over and spread butter over the other side. 
When done, dish, salt, and serve them hot A little butter 
may be added when dished, according to taste. 

A la Parisknne. — Chop an onion fine and partly fry 
it with butter, then put in it some potatoes out in dice, 
add a little water or broth, salt, and pepper; boil gently 
till done, take from the fire, add chopped parsley, and 
serve. 

Fried. — ^To be fried, the potatoes are cut either with a 



YEGETABLSS* 339 

vegetable spoon, in fillets, in slices, with a scalloped knife, 
or with an ordinary one, or cut in pieces like carpels of 
oranges, or even in dice. When cut, drain and wipe them 
dry. This most be done quickly, so as not to allow the 
potatoes to turn reddish. Have a coarse towel ready, then 
turn the potatoes into a colander, and immediately turn 
them in the towel, shake them a little, and quickly drop 
them in hot fat. {See Frying.) When done, turn them 
into a colander, sprinkle salt on them, and serve hot. Bear 
in miad that Med potatoes must be eaten aa hot as possi- 
ble. Fry only one size at a time, as it takes three times 
as long to fry them when cut in pieces as when sliced or 
cut in fillets. 

To fry them lights or swelled^ — When fried, turn into 
the colander, and have the fat over a brisk fire ; leave the 
potatoes in the colander only about half a minute, then put 
them back in the very hot fat, stir for about one minute 
and put them again in the colander, salt them, and serve 
hot Tf the fiat is very hot, when dropped into it for the 
second time they will certainly swell ; there is no other 
way known to do it. It is as easily done as it is simple. 
Potatoes cut in fillets and Med are sometimes called h la 
Parisienne ; when cut in slices or with a vegetable spoon, 
they are called h la fran$ai%e. 

Potatoes cut with a vegetable spoon and Med, make a 
good as well as a sightly decoration for a dish of meat or 
of fish. They may be Med in oil also, but it is more 
expensive than in fat. They may be Med in butter also, 
but it is still more expensive than oil, and is not better than 
fat ; no matter what kind of fat is used, be it lard, beef 
suet, or skimmings of sauces and gravy, it cannot be 
tasted. 

ffoUandaise. — Steam or boil the potatoes, and then 



834 yBQETABLEB. 

peel and mash. tbem. Season tbem with a teaspoonfal of 
chopped parsley, salt, and pepper, add also two tablespoon- 
fills of grayy to a quart of potatoes, then make small balls 
about the size of a walnut, round or of an oliye-shape, dip 
them in beaten egg, roll in bread-crumbs, and fry in hot 
fat. Serve hot 

Another, — ^Proceed as for the above one in every par- 
ticular, except that you use milk or cream instead of broth, 
and sugar instead of salt and pepper. 

Lyannaise, — ^Potatoes Lyonnaise are prepared accord- 
ing to taste, that is, as much onion as liked is used, either 
in slices or chopped. If you have not any cold potatoes, 
steam or boil some, let them cool^ and peel and slice them. 
For about a quart of potatoes, put two ounces of butter 
in a fiying-pan on the fire, and when melted put as much 
onion as you please, either sliced or chopped, into the pan, 
and fry it till about half done, when add the potatoes and 
again two ounces of butter ; salt, pepper, and stir and toss 
gently till the potatoes are all fried of a fine, light-brown 
color. It may require more butter, as no vegetable ab- 
sorbs more than potatoes. It makes an excellent dish for 
those who do not object to the taste of the onion (the 
onion can be tasted, not being boiled or kept long enough 
on the fire to evaporate). Serve warm. Oil may be used 
instead of butter. 

Maitre oTJ^dtel. — Steam or boil about a quart of pota 
toes, and then peel and cut them in slices. Put one ounce 
and a half of butter in a saucepan on the fire, and when 
melted add a sm&ll tablespoonful of flour ; stir, and when 
turning yellow add also about a quart of milk, salt to 
taste, give one boil and take from the fire. Then add the 
potatoes, put back on a slow fire, stir for ten minutes, mix 
in the whole a teaspoonfiil of parsley chopped fine, also a 
yolk or two of ^gs, and serve warm. 



YEGETABLBS. 835 

Another Maitre vTJErdtel, — ^Take two quarts of potatoes, 
prepare and cook tliem by steam, peel carefully, and cut 
tbem in thick slices ; place tbem on a dish and keep warm. 
Put four ounces of butter in a stewpan and set it on a slow 
fire ; add, wben melted, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 
tiie juice of half a lemon, salt, pepper, and a pinch of all- 
spice, stir ten minutes ; afterward, put for five minutes on 
a quick fire, keep stirring, then pour on the potatoes, and 
serve. 

Mashed, — ^Peel and quarter about three pints of pota- 
toes as directed ; put them in a saucepan with more water 
than is necessary to cover them, and a little salt ; set on 
the fire and boil gently till done, drain, put them back in 
the saucepan, mash them well and mix them with two 
ounces of butter, two yolks of eggs, salt, pepper, and milk 
enough to make them of a proper thickness. Set on the 
fire for two or three minutes, stirring the while, and serve 
warm. When on the dish, smooth them with the back of 
a knife or scallop them, according to fancy. 

Mashed and baked. — ^Put two ounces of butter in a 
stewpan and set it on the fire ; when hot, add a teaspoon- 
ful of parsley chopped fine, and a little salt; five minutes 
after, put in it a quart of potatoes, prepared, cooked, peeled, 
and mashed, as directed ; then pour on the whole, little 
by little, stirring continually with a wooden spoon, a pint 
of good milk; and when the whole is well mixed, and 
becoming rather thick, take from the fire, place on the dish, 
then set in a brisk oven for five minutes, and serve. 

Polonaise, — ^Wash well about two quarts of potatoes, 
put them in a saucepan and cover with cold water, season 
with salt, half a dozen whole peppers, a bay-leaf, a sprig 
of thyme, and two or three onions in slices; boil gen- 
tly t31 done, and drain. Peel the potatoes, cut them 



336 YBGETABLBB. 

in two, dish and torn a caper sance over them. Senre 
warm. 

Pr&ven^dU, — Peel and quarter about three pints of 
potatoes as directed. Put in a saucepan about a gill of 
oil with the potatoes, salt, pepper, a pinch of nutmeg, six 
sprigs of paisley, two cloves of garlic, and half the rind 
of a lemon ; the three latter spices well chopped ; set on 
a good fire, stir now and then till cooked, dish the whole, 
sprinkle the juice of one or two lemons on, and serve- 
warm. 

Another way, — ^Put in a stewpan three tablespoonfuls 
of sweet-oil, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, two cloves 
of garlic chopped very fine, a pinch of grated nutmeg, the 
juice of half a lemon, salt, and pepper ; set on a good 
fire, and when hot put in it a quart of potatoes prepared 
and cooked by steam, and cut in thick slices ; subdue the 
fire, simmer about ten minutes, and serve. 

Sauties. — ^Take a quart of young and tender potatoes, 
peel them with a brush, and cut in shces. Put two ounces 
of butter in a firying-pan on a quick fire ; when hot, put 
the potatoes in, and fry them till of a golden color ; place 
them on a dish without any butter, sprinkle chopped pars- 
ley and salt on, and serve. They may also be served with- 
out parsley, according to taste. 

Souffleea.'^Steam a quart of potatoes, then peel and 
mash them in a saucepan and mix an ounce of butter with 
them; set on the fire, pour into it, little by little, stirring 
the while, about half a pint of milk, stir a little longer 
after the milk is in and until they are turning rather thick ; 
dish the potatoes, smooth or scallop them with the back 
of a knife, and put them in a quick oven till of a proper 
color, and serve. 

Another way. — Steam three pints of potatoes and peej 



VEGBTABLES. 337 

and mash them in a saucepan, then mix witL them foni 
ounces of butter, salt to taste, half a pint of milk, and 
eight yolks of eggs ; set on the fire for two minutes, stir- 
ring the while, and take off. Beat six whites of eggs to 
a stiff froth, and mix them gently with the rest. Place 
the mixture on a dish, smooth with the back of a knife oi 
scallop them, according to fancy, and put in a quick oven. 
As soon as the top gets a little dry, which will be in two 
or three minutes after being in the oven, take them off 
and quickly spread some melted butter all over, by meana 
of a brush, and put back in the oven for two or three min- 
utes longer, when take off again, spread butter over the 
same as the first time, etc. Eepeat the same process two 
or three times, and serve warm. 

Stuffed, — Steam two or three potatoes and peel and 
mash them in a bowl, then chop fine a small green onion 
or two shallots with two ounces of fat salt pork and six oi 
eight sprigs of parsley; mix the whole with the potatoes; 
add also and mix with the rest about two ounces of but- 
ter, and salt and pepper to taste. If the potatoes are not 
warm enough to melt the butter while mixing, it should 
be melted first. Clean and wash well six potatoes of an 
even size and split them in two lengthwise ; then with a 
small iron spoon remove the middle part of each half, so 
as to leave only a thickness of about one-eighth of an 
inch. You have then a kind of shell, which you fill with 
the prepared mixture above, filling mere than full, so that 
the top is convex, and which you smooth with the back 
of a knife. When the twelve halves are thus prepared, 
batter the bottom of a bakepan, lay the potatoes in with 
the mixture upward^and put in a warm oven. Take from 
the oven when about half done, and spread some melted 

15 



838 TEQETABLES. 

butter all over hy meanB of a bmsli ; pat back in the oven, 
finish the baking, and senre wann. ' 

In Cakes. — Prepare and cook by steam a quart and a 
ha]f of potatoes, peel and mash them ; mix with them the 
yolks of five eggs, half a lemon-rind grated, and four ounces 
of fine white sugar. Put four ounces of batter in a gtew« 
pan and set it on the fire ; when melted, put the mixture 
in, stirring with a wooden spoon continually ; as soon as 
it is in the stevrpan, add the whites of the five eggs, well 
beaten ; leave on the fire only the time necessary to mix 
the whole well together, and take off; when nearly cold, 
add, if handy, and while stirring, a few drops of orange- 
flower water; it ^ves a very good flavor ; then put the 
whole in a tin mould greased a little with butter ; place in 
a quick oven for about thirty-five minutes, and serve. 

In Croqitettesj'^FQe}, quarter, and boil about a quart 
of potatoes as directed. Mash them in a saucepan and 
mix them with four yolks of eggs, two ounces of butter, 
salt, and about half a gill of milk ; set on the fire, stir for 
about two minutes, take off, spread on a dish and leave 
thus for two or three hours, and even over night when for 
breakfast. When left over night, they may be rather too 
dry to work them ; then mix with a few drops of milk. No 
matter how long they have been left on the dish, it is 
necessary to mix them, that is, to mix the top, which 
is the driest part, with the rest. Dust the paste-board 
slightly with bread-crumbs, put the potatoes on it, in parts 
of about a tablespoonfdl each ; then, with the hands and a 
knife, shape them according to fancy, either round, fiat, or 
oval, etc. When shaped round they look like a piece of 
lausage about two inches and a half long. If wished flat, 
when shaped round, just flatten them a little with the 
blade of a knife. Then dip each part in beaten egg, roB 



yEGETABLES. 339 

in bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat. {See Feting.) Take 
tbem ofif the fat when done, tnm them into a colander, 
and immediately dish, and serve them as warm as possible. 
Potato croquettes are sometimes called potato-balls. When 
the croquettes are shaped flat, they are also called '^ h la 
duchessey 

Another Duckesse, — ^When the potatoes are ready to 
be spread on the dish to cool, put them in the pastry-bag 
and squeeze them out of it like lady's fingers, bake, and 
«,rve warm. It makes a sightly dish. 

In Matelote. — Prepare and cook a quart and a half of 
potatoes, and peel and cut them in thick slices. Put in a 
stewpan a piece of butter the size of an egg, and set it on 
the fire ; when melted, sprinkle in it a teaspoonful of flour, 
also the same of chopped parsley, salt, and pepper, then 
the potatoes, wet with half a pint of claret wine, same of 
broth ; boil gently till the sauce is reduced, and serve. 

With Butter, or English Fashion, — ^Put water on the 
fire with considerable salt in it; at the first boil, drop a 
quart of washed potatoes in and boil till done, when take 
off, peel, and put them whole in a saucepan, with butter, 
salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg ; set on a rather slow fire, 
stirring gently now and then till they have absorbed all 
the butter. Serve warm. They absorb a great deal of 
butter. 

With Bacon or Salt Pork, — Peel and quarter about a 
quart of potatoes. Set a saucepan on the fire with about 
four ounces of fat salt pork cut in dice in it. When 
fried put the potatoes in« Season with a bunch of season- 
ings composed of two sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, and 
a bay-leaf; salt and pepper to taste, and about half a pint 
of broth or water. Boil gently till cooked, remove the 
bunch of seasonings ; skim off the &t if any, and serve 



MO YBGIETABLSS. 

warm. It is served at breakfast, as well as entremets for 
dinner. 

With Cream or MUk, — Peel and mash a quart of po- 
tatoes, when prepared and cooked. Pat two ounces of 
butter in a stewpan and set it on a good fire; when 
melted, sprinkle in it a teaspoonfdl of flour, same of chop- 
ped parsley, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and salt ; stir with 
a wooden spoon five minutes ; then add the potatoes, and 
half a pint of milk or cream ; keep stirring ten minutes 
longer, take from the fire, sprinMe in them half a table* 
spoonful of sugar, and serve as warm as possible. 

With White Sattee, — Clean, wash, and throw a quart 
of potatoes in boiling water, with a sprig of thyme, two 
onions, a bay-leaf, two sprigs of sweet basil, two clovesj 
salt, ana pepper; when cooked, take the potatoes out 
carefdlly, peel and cut them in two, place them on a warm 
dish, pour on them a white sauce, and serve warm. 

Sweet Potatoes, — They are prepared in the same and 
every way like the others above. 

Fiimpkins and Squashes, — ^Peel, take out the seed, cut 
in pieces, and throw them in boiling water with a little 
salt ; drain when cooked and mash through a colander, 
put butter in a stewpan on the fire, when melted, add 
chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and the pumpkin or squash, 
and simmer ten minutes ; after which pour in it half a 
pint of milk, little by little, stirring the while ; leave ten 
minutes longer on the fire, and take off; mix well in it 
two or three yolks of eggs, and serve warm. The quantity 
of milk, butter, eggs, etc., to be according to the quantity 
of squash. 

Purslain. — Glean, wash well, and drop it in boiling 
water with a little salt, boil till cooked, take off and drain. 
Put butter in a stewpan on the fire, and when melted lay 



TSSBTABLBS. 341 

Uie pnislain in, stir a little and sprinkle on it, little bj 
little, a pinch of floor ; season with Bait, pepper, and chop- 
ped parsley, stir and simmer about ten minutes, take &om 
the fire, mix in it one or two beaten egga, and serve, 
Porslain is macb more used in Europe dan here; there 
it is cultivated as other vegetables, hut it does not grow 
as well as here. 

.fiAu(ar&.— Scrape and cut it in pieces about one Inch 
iou^ and then blanch it for two minutes. Put it in a 
saucepan with two or three tablespoonfuU of cold water 
and set it on a rather sharp fire, toss oi stir now and then 
till done, when sweeten to taste, dish, let cool, and serve. 
£hubarb is very wholesome, and ought to be pa. taken of at 
least every other day. "When prepared as above, it may 
be used to luake pies. 

SadUhet, — The cuts below are turnip-routed red rad- 
ishes, cut with a small knife, put in cold water for about 
an hour, aud served with butter, as a hwi-d'ceuvTe. £»' 



move the oucer leaves, leaving only four or five of the 
small centre ones, cut off tlie root close to the radish, and 
wash clean in cold water. Take the radish with the left 
hand holding it by the centre leaves, cut the skin &om the 
top downward to near the leaves, in several parts, but 
without detaching it, and as seen in the cats above ; do 



842 VEGETABLES. 

the same carefully with the body of the radish, and il 
will look more like a rose than like a radish. After hav- 
ing prepared two or three, it will be comparatively easy. 
The centre leaves must be eaten, as well as the body of 
the radish ; they contain a substance that helps the di- 
gestion of the radish itself 

SdUify, or Oyster-Plant — Scrape them, and throw 
one by one as they are scraped into cold water, with a few 
drops of vinegar ; when they are all scraped, move them 
a little, take out of the water, and throw them in boOing 
water with a little salt, boil till tender, and drain ; place 
them warm on a warm dish, and serve with brown butter, 
a maitre cThdtel, or white sauce. 

Fried. — ^When boiled as above, drain them. Then 
dip each in batter for frying vegetables, drop them in hot 
fat, and take them off with a skimmer when done, turn 
into a colander, salt them, and serve hot 

In JBSchamel. — ^While the salsify is boiling as directed 
above, make & Bechamel sauce; drain the salsify when 
done, and turn it into the Bechamel sauce as soon as the 
latter is finished ; keep on the fire for about two minutes, 
stirring the while, and serve warm. They are prepared 
and served in the same way with the following sauces : 
cream, poulettCy and white, 

Skirret, — ^Prepare, cook, and serve in every way like 
parsnips. 

Sorrel, — Sorrel is found in a wild state nearly every- 
where; that is, where green plants vegetate. It is an 
excellent vegetable, good to eat all the year round, but 
especially in the spring and summer. It is very healthful, 
containing the pure oxalic acid as it is formed by Nature. 
Sorrel is the greatest neutralizer of acrid substances. A 
few leaves chewed, take away from the teeth that dia- 



VEGETABLES. 343 

agreeable feeling left after having eaten a tart apple or 
other tart, unripe ftuit. Cultivated in a rich soil, the 
leaves grow nearly as large as those of the rhubarb. It 
is cut to the ground several times during the spring and 
summer. 

To boil. — Take a peck of sorrel, separate the stalk 
from the eatable part, by taking hold of it with one hand 
and tearing off the rest with the other, so that only the 
fttalk and fibres attached to it will remain after the tearing, 
and which you throw away. Wash it well, drain and set 
it on the fire in a saucepan with two tablespoonfuls of 
water ; stir occasionally, and when nearly done, take off, 
mash through a colander, and it is ready for use. 

Au jus. — Put a piece of butter the size of an egg in 
a saucepan, set it on the fire, and when melted, put the 
sorrel in after being boiled and mashed as above, stir half 
a minute, add a tablespoonful of flour * stir another half 
minute, add also half a gill of gravy, same of broth, salt, 
stir two minutes, and serve. Hard-boiled*^ ^^^ split in 
four pieces, lengthwise, may be placed around the dish, if 
the sorrel is served as an entremelg. 

To preserve for Winter Use, — When boiled and mashed 
as above, put it in stone or glass jars ; when cold, turn 
melted butter or lard over it ; cover as tightly as possible 
with paper, and when perfectly cold, put away in a dark, 
dry, and rather cool place, and it will keep very well 
during the whole winter. The best time to preserve it is 
at the beginning of November, just before the cold weather 
sets in. 

Puree of, — ^When prepared as for au juSy but without 
gravy, it is a puree. 

Spinctch — to hoU, — When cleaned and washed, throw 
t in boiling water at the first boiling, with a pmch of salt^ 



844 YEGBTASLES. 

and bo2 till done. It wiil take from one to ten minntes to 
boH, according to how tender it is. Tarn into a colander ; 
press on it to force the water ont, put on the paste-board 
and chop it fine. 

Au jus, — ^When chopped, set the spinach on the fire 
in a saucepan with a little broth, two or three tablespoon- 
Ma for a small measure ; stir, add as much gravy, an ounce 
of butter, a teaspoonful of flour, salt, stir two minutes, and 
serve. 

Au jus m Winter, — ^When prepared as above, put it 
away in a bowl in a cool place, for one day ; then set 
it back on the fire in a paa, add a little butter and 
a little broth, stir and just warm it, when put away 
again ; repeat this for four or five days in succession, and 
you certainly will have an excellent dish. Some hard-* 
boiled eggs cut in four pieces, lengthwise, may be placed 
around the spinach when dished, also some croutons. 
Spinach is generally served on a flat dish, and scolloped 
all around with a knife. 

With Sugar, — Proceed as for spinach aujus in every 
particular, except that you put very little salt^ and one or 
two teaspoonfuls of sugar, according to taste. Lady-fin- 
gers or pieces of sponge-cake may be placed all around 
the dish. 

A la Crhne, — Boil and chop the spinach as directed. 
Set it on the fire in a saucepan, stir till perfectly dry, but 
not burnt ; add two ounces of butter, and stir again for five 
or six minutes ; then add about two tablespoonfuls of cream 
to a small measure of spinach ; stir again five minutes, 
take from the fire ; add again one ounce of butter, stir two 
minutes, and serve with hard-boiled eggs or croutons^ or 
both. Milk may be used instead of cream when the lat« 
tcr cannot be had, but it is inferior in taste. 



VEGHTTABLEB. 345 

With Anchovy, — ^Proceed as for the above, using a 
tablespoonfiil of essence of ancboYy instead of cream. 

Spinach au BeurrCj or h Vcmglaise. — ^Boil and chop 
the spinacb as directed Put it in a saucepan with but- 
ter; set on the fire, stir till the butter is melted and 
mixed with the spinach, salt to taste, and serve. 

Sprouts, — Boil, prepare, and serve sprouts the same 
as spinach. 

Tomatoes are, like sorrel and rhubarb, very healthful. 

To blanch. — After they are washed, throw boiling 
water over them, and then take off and remove the skin. 

Stewed^ to serve with Meat or Fish, — ^When blanched as 
above, put the tomatoes in a stewpan with butter, salt, and 
pepper, set on the fire and simmer for about forty-five 
minutes ; serve warm all around the fish or piece of meat. 
Tomatoes may be eaten raw, with or without salt ; in no 
matter what way they are partaken oi^ they are not 
yet known to have indisposed anybody. Although great 
quantities are consumed in this and other countries, still 
many more ought to be used; they are so easily pre- 
served, that every femily ought to have a large provision 
of them for the winter and spring consumption. 

Stuffed, — Soak in cold water one-fourth of a ten-cent 
loaf of bread, etc. ; when perfectly soaked, squeeze it with 
the hands. Take six tomatoes, as much of an even size as 
possible, cut the top off; thiat is, the side opposite the 
stem, and with a small spoon take put the inside and put 
it in a bowl, and then turil into a colander to let the 
liquid part run off. Put about an ounce of butter in a 
saucepan, and when melted add a small onion chopped ; 
stir, and when nearly fried add also the part of the toma- 
toes in the colander also chopped; stir halT a minute; 
put in the soaked bread, stir and mi: ; then salt, pepper, 

15* 



346 YEaETABLES. 

and grated natmeg ; ^ve one boil more, and take from 
the fire. Fill the tomatoes with this mixture, dust with 
bread-crumbs, put a piece of butter the size of a hazel-nut 
on each, and bake. Just before serring, wet with a little 
tomato-sauce, broth, or gravy. 

Tumip8^^to boU, — Clean, scrape, and wash well, then 
put them in a saucepan, either whole or in slices, or cut 
with a fruit-corer or with a vegetable spoon, add cold wa- 
ter enough to boil them in, a little salt, set on the fire and 
boil gently till tender ; then take 0% drain, drop in cold 
water, drain again, and use. 

In ^ecAame/.— While the turnips are boiling as de- 
scribed above, make a Bechamel sauce and turn the tur- 
nips in as soon as made ; boil gently about two minutes, 
stirring the while, and serve wann. Do exactly the same 
with a cream or white sauce. 

Au jus. — ^Boil and drain them as directed above, then 
put them in a saucepan with a little gravy, set on the fire, 
stir now and then for about ten minutes, add a teaspoonful 
of meunierej stir again for two or three minutes, and serve 
warm. 

With Sugar, — Cut with a finiit-corer or with a v^ta* 
ble spoon about a pint of turnips, and boil them till un- 
der done, then drain. Put the turnips in a saucepan with 
two or three tablespoonfuls of broth, set on a good fire, 
toss occasionally for about ten minutes, then add two or 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar, toss again now and then for 
ten minutes longer, and serve. It may take a little longer 
or less time than described above, according to the state 
of the turnips ; if young and very tender, keep on the 
fire five instead, of ten minutes, and if old, it may take 
fifteen minutes 

Glazed. — Cut the turnips with a vegetable spoon, boil 



VEGSTTABLES. 817 

thfim for five minutes, and drain them. Put balf a gill 
of brotli in a saucepan with about one pint of turnips and 
set on a good fire ; toss and stir now and then till done, 
and till the broth is all boiled away. K it boils away 
before the turnips are cooked, add more and finish the 
cooking. When done, sprinkle about three ounces of 
sugar on them, stir for about one mbute, dish the turnips, 
dredge powdered sugar all over, put in the oven two min- 
utes, and scnre. 

Water-cress, — ^This contains much sulphur, and is the 
greatest anti'-scorbutic known. Besides being eaten with 
salt or in salad, it may also be stewed in the following 
way : Take only the top and the leaves around the stalk; 
clean and wash it well ; throw it in boiling water with a 
little salt, and when cooked drain it well, so as to extract 
all the water from it Put a piece of butter the size of an 
egg in a stewpan ; when melted, put the cress m, sprinkle 
on it a tablespoonful of flour (for three quarts) ; stir con- 
tinually with a spoon, boil ten minutes, then add salt, pep- 
per, a little grated nutmeg, and half a pint of broth ; boil 
ten minutes longer, and serve either alone, or with hard- 
boiled eggs on it ; cut the eggs in two or four pieces. 

Salads. — Salads are seasoned with oil, vinegar, salt, 
and pepper, and sometimes with mustard also. The best 
oil is that made of olives, but much is sold for olive-oil 
which contains more lard than oiL It is impossible to tell 
which is pure by the color. Pure olive-oil is of a pale- 
yellow-greenish color. It is very easy to tell the pure oil 
by tasting, but of course it is necessary to know the real 
taste of good oiL 

The best vinegar is wine-vinegar, with tarragon in it 
(vinaigre h Pestraffon), but it is expensive. Next to it is 
«ider-vinegar. Beer makes good vinegar, but inferior to 



348 VEOBTABLES. 

ibat made with cider. Pyrolignic viuegar is very on* 
healthy. No one can be too careful in selecting vinegar. 
The superiority of the French mnstard comes firom the 
compounds used, and not (rom the way it is made, as 
thought by many. In the French mnstardi besides vinaigrt 
h restroffovif there is white wine, and more sweet-oil than 
in any other kind. A good deal of mustard is made here, 
and often sold as French,^ after being carefully labelled. 

Salad is made with every species of lettuce ; chicory, 
cultivated and wild ; cabbages, red and white ; cauliflowers, 
celery, dandelion, corn-salad, purslain, wateiH^ress, etc. If 
it were possible to clean the salad by merely wiping the 
leaves with a towel, it would be better than washing ; but 
it must be washed if there is any earth or sand on it The 
salad should be made by an experienced person, who can 
judge at a glance what quantity of salt, pepper, oil, and 
vinegar is necessary. The quantities cannot be given, as 
that depends on the quantity of salad. Chopped paisley 
and chives are served on a small plate at the same time 
with the salad, as many persons like those spices. 

Celery, — ^When the celery is washed and cleaned, wipe 
it dry, cut the white or eatable part (the top or green part 
is used for soup) in pieces about one inch long, put them 
m the salad-dish with salt, vin^ar, and mustard, stir a 
little, leave thus about one hour, then add pepper and oil, 
move again, and serve. 

Lettuce. — ^Lettuce, and especially Cos or Roman let- 
tuce, must be handled very gingerly, in order not to wilt 
the leaves while cleaning and washing. When the head 
of the lettuce, especially of Boman lettuce, is hard, it is 
not necessary to wash it at all, as when the outer leaves 
are taken off, the rest is perfectly clean. Never use the 
knife, but break the leaves; put them in the salad-dish | 



YEGETABLBS. 349 

ipread all over the disb, according to taste and fancy, the 
blossoms and petals (not the leaves) of any or all of the 
following plants: bamet, wild chiccory, rose (any kind), 
pink, sage, lady's-slipper, marsh-mallow, nasturtium, peri- 
winkle. Thus decorated, the salad is put on the table at 
the setting of it, and made when the time for eating it 
comes. Of these decorative flowers, the handiest are the 
rose and pink, as at every season of the year they are 
easily obtained. In spring and summer most of the others 
can also be had easily. 

The salad, thus decorated, is placed on the table at the 
same time with the soup. It is made while the roast-piece 
Is carved or eaten ; the petals of flowers or blossoms are 
not removed, and, of course,. are eaten with the lettuce. 
The salad is seasoned with salt, pepper, vinegar, and oil. 
The proportions are two tablespoonfuls of oil to one of 
vinegar for a salad for three, four, or five persons. It is 
generally moved round in the dish, so as to impregnate 
every leaf with the seasoning. It is served immediately 
after the roast-piece. 

Cream may be used instead of oil 

Turnip-rooted Celery {called also Soup Celery), — Qean, 
wash well, and scrape it carefully; cut it in thin slices, 
place it in the salad-dish, sprinkle salt, pepper, vinegar, 
and mustard on it, mix well the whole together, and leave 
thus from four to six hours. Then throw away the vine- 
gar, or most of it ; add very little salt and vinegar, oil, and 
move well Serve as above, that is, immediately after the 
roast-piece of the dinner. 

A salad with cabbage, chiccory, corn-salad, or any kind 
of greens, after being properly cleaned, washed, wiped 
dry, and cut in pieces if necessary, is made and served 
exactly like a salad of lettuce described above. 



S50 Vl!OETABLB8. 

Nasturtium, — ^This is said to be a native of Mexico ; 
Lt makes a good salad in summer-time. Make and serve 
like a salad of lettuce. 

Chervil and Sorrel. — ^In Italy, Spain, and tlie south 
of France, tbey make salad with these two vegetables, 
half of each, prepared and served like lettuce. 

Some persons like a thick sauce with salad ; it is made 
thus : Put a hard-boiled yolk of egg in a bowl, mash it, 
and then mix with it salt and a tablespoonful of vinegar; 
when these three are thoroughly mixed, add pepper and 
oil (about two tablespoonfiils of oil), little by little, stir- 
ring and mixing well the while ; turn the mixture over the 
salad, and move as directed above. The mixture may be 
prepared in the salad-dish, and the salad put in afterward. 

Mustard should never be used with lettuce ; it is too 
strong to be eaten with such tender vegetables. 

Of Salsify. — In the spring, when the top of the sal- 
sify has grown for one or two weeks only, and immedi- 
ately after the frost is out of the ground, cut it ofl^ split it 
in four, wash it well, drain it dry, and prepare as a salad 
of lettuce. The root is prepared as described for salsify, 
and is never made in salad. 

0/ Cucumbers. — Peel and slice them, then put them in 
a vessel, salt every layer, and leave thus in a cool place 
about one hour, drain them dry and then dress them with 
oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper; slices of onion may be 
added, if liked. 

Of Beans. — Boil the beans in water with a little salt, 
drain them dry, and then dress them with parsley chopped 
fine, salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar. 

Of Beets. — Boil the beets in water only till done, and 
when cool, peel and slice them, and prepare them with 
pepper, salt, 'vinegar, and oil The beets may be baked. 



YEGBTABLB8. 351 

OfEggB* — Slice hard-boiled eggs, and dress them with 
chopped parsley, salt, pepper, vinegar, and oil 

Of Zeniils, — ^Proceed as for beans in every particular. 

0/ Onions. — ^Bake the onions, then peel and slice 
ihcm, and dress them with mnstard, salt, pepper, vinegar, 
and oil 

Of Tomatoes. — ^Wash, wipe dry, and slice the toma- 
toes ; slice also onions and mix with them, the quantity to 
be according to taste ; then season with salt, pepper, oil, 
ind vinegar. 

Of Walnuts. — ^The European walnut only can be used, 
ind as soon as good to eat; that is, before the outer shell 
dries and opens. Break the nuts in two, take out the ker- 
nels with a pointed knife, and place them in a salad-dish, 
with some juice of grapes not yet ripe ; add salt and pep- 
per, leave thus two or three hours, moving now and then, 
and serve. The edible part will be found very good eaten 
that way. To persons who have never eaten any, it may 
appear a strange dish, but let them try it. 

Of Potatoes. — ^A potato-salad is the one that requires 
the most seasonings, especially oil and vinegar. They are 
better served warm than cold, although many prefer them 
in the latter state. When steamed, peeled, and sliced, put 
them in the salad-dish, with salt, pepper, vinegar, oil, and 
paisley, to taste. Mix the whole gently and well, and 
serve. If served very warm, butter may be used instead 
of oiL 

Another, — ^Add to the above a few anchovies, or slices 
of pickled cucumbers, or capers, or pickled beets. 

Another. — ^Add to the first some slices of truffles, pre- 
viously soaked in Madeira wine for ten hours, and also a 
little of the wine. 

Another. — ^Put a hard-boiled yolk of egg in the salad* 



852 V1BGETABLX8. 

disth, with two tablespoonfolB of oil, and mix well so as 
to make a paste of tbem ; then add two anchovies, a piece 
of tunny the size of a nutmeg, and half a dozen sprigs of 
chervil, the whole chopped fine ; mix again with the rest ; 
add also a chopped pickled cucumber, mustard to taste, 
vinegar, and then the slices of potatoes (warm or cold), 
slices of truffles previously soaked in Madeira wine, a little 
of the wine also^ salt, and pepper; stir and mix again well, 
and serve. 

AprkoUy Oranges^ Peaches^ PearSy Strawberries, Rasp- 
berriesj BlachberrieSj Currants, and like Berries, in Salad. 
— ^Dnst the bottom of a dish with white sugar, put a layer 
of slices of apricots, oranges, peaches, or pears, or a layer 
of the others entire, and dust again ; repeat the same till 
the whole is in, then add over the whole a pinch of grated 
nutmeg, with French brandy or rum to suit your taste, and 
serve as a dessert 

Cocoornut — ^Peel it carefally and soak it in brandy for 
twenty-four hours. A little sugar may be added ; serve 
as a dessert. 

Salad MacSdoine, — ^This salad ought to be called 
« compound salad," as it is made of a little of every thing 
that can be served in aalad, t. e., fish, meat, green and dry 
vegetables, &q. When the whole is mixed, you add 
chopped parsley, sweet-oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper ; you 
shake it tiU your arms are sore, and you have a salad Mace- 
doine. Every one should try it; serve as an entremets. 

Salmon and Turhot, — Cut in slices, place them in a 
salad-dish, with hard-boiled e^s cut in two, or with some 
lettuce, and serve as a hors-d'csuvre, with salt, pepper, oil, 
and vinegar. 

Of Pineapple, — ^Proceed as for that of apricots, etc, 
iH every particular. 



YEGETABLEg. 353 

Of Anchovy, — Clean and bone tbe ancbovies, and tben 
place tbem in tbe middle of a disb ; cbop fine some bard- 
boiled yolks of eggs and put a string of it around tbe an- 
cbovies; do tbe same with the whites, and tben pat a 
string of chopped parsley around tbe whites ; season with 
oil and very little vinegar. Serve as a hars-d'ceuvre. 

Pickles and Preserves. — ^To pickle tbe fruit, it must be 
pickled before commencing to ripen, and be sound ; the 
same for vegetables. When tbe fruit or vegetable is clean, 
and cut in pieces, if necessary, such as cabbage, have water 
on the fire, and drop it in at the first boil. If the fruit or 
vegetable is desired white, add to tbe water lemon or un- 
ripe grape juice. It is necessary to be very careful in 
blanching, for, if too much blanched or cooked, it will be 
soft and tasteless ; if not enough, it will ferment. As a 
general rule, it is cooked as soon as it floats, but it can be 
ascertained by running a skewer or a small knife through 
it. By puttiDg some fresh spinach-leaves or fresh grape- 
vine-leaves on the top of the fruit or. vegetable, it will keep 
it more green than without. When blanched, take from 
the fire and drain. Drop it immediately in cold water, 
and drain again. When dry, put the fruit or vegetable 
in jars, cover it with boiling vinegar; season with pep- 
pers, pepper-corns, cloves, and tarragon, also some rock- 
salt. When perfectly cold, seal the jars air-tight, and keep 
in a dark, cool, and dry closet. Every Idnd of fruit or 
vegetables can be pickled in tbe same way ; the only dif- 
ference is in tbe time of bl^mcbing or cooking, which is ao- 
corduig to the nature of tbe fruit : apples, string-beanSy 
beets, cabbages, cauliflowers, cherries, cticumbers, lemons, 
melons, mushrooms, onions, peaches, pears, plums, pump- 
kins, quinces, radishes, walnuts, etc., may also be preserved 
m salt and water, and in the following way : When cooked 



854 VEGETABLES. 

as above, pat them in jars and corer them with, very salt 
water. Seal when cool, and then put the jars in a boiler 
full of cold water, with straw or rags to prevent breaiking 
them ; set on the fire, boil from twenty to thirty minutes, 
take from the fire, let cool ; then take the jars from the 
water and put away as the above. 

Peas and tmukrooms are almost always preserved in 
water and salt. 

Asparagus is also preserved, but it is so difficult to 
succeed, that even manufacturers of preserves have given 
it up. 

Tomatoes, — ^Wash them and then bruise them in a 
boiler ; set on the fire, boil half an hour, and strain, to se- 
cure all the juice. Put the juice on the fire, boil till reduced 
about one-half, let cool, put in jars, seal them, put them in a 
boiler of cold water, with straw or rags to prevent break- 
age ; set the boiler on the fire, boil twenty minutes, take 
off, let cool. When perfectly cold, take the jars off, place 
in a cool, dark cellar, and we warrant that they keep for 
years. No salt or seasonings of any kind are used to pre- 
serve them. When you wish to use them, season to taste. 

Twnato Catsup, — ^To make catsup with the above 
sauce, you have only to add to it, when in jars, peppers, 
pimento, cloves, etc. ; but it is really not necessary, being 
too strong for this climate. 

Another way.^^Tske good and well-ripened tomatoes, 
clean and wash them well, put them in a stewpan and set it 
on a moderate fire for a while ; take from the fire, throw 
away the water coming from them, and then strain them 
into a vesseL Put what there is in the vessel back on the 
fire, and in the same stewpan, and let it reduce about one- 
half; take from the fire, pour in a crockery pot, and leave 
thus twenty-four hours ; then put in bottles, cork well, and 
place them in a cold and dry place. 



TEGRTABLES. 355 

Cucumhera. — ^The small green ones are the best Glean 
them well in cold water with a brash, removing the prickles. 
Put cold water in a vessel with rock-salt in it, and shake it 
to dissolve the salt; soak tiie cucumbers in it for about 
three days. Take them out and immediately put them 
m pots or jars with small onions, a few cloves of garlic, 
pepper-corns, rock-salt^ cloves, and a bunch of seasonings 
composed of bay-leaves, tarragon, and bumet ; cover them 
with boiling vinegar (turn the vinegar on them as soon as it 
boils), cover the pots or jars air-tight when perfectly cold. 
Look at the cucumbers every two or three days for the 
first three weeks, and after that only once in a while. 
According to the quality of the vinegar or of the cucum- 
ber itself, the whole may turn white after a while ; in that 
case throw away vinegar and spices, put new spices in, the 
same spices as above, except the onions, which you keep 
with the cucumbers; cover again with boiling vinegar, 
and cover when cold as before. If they have not been 
kept too long in that state before changing the vinegar, 
tliey will be just as good as if they had not turned whiter 



EGGS, MACARONI, AND EICE. 



Eggs are fit to eat as soon as laid, and the sooner they 
are used the better. Yon ascertain if they are fresh with 
an oonoscope, or by holding them before a light and look- 
ing through. There are several ways to preserve eggs, 
but to do which they must be fresh ; as soon as perfectly 
cold after being laid, they may be preserved. Dissolve 
gum in water to the consistency of thin mucilage, and 
with a brush give a coat of it to the eggs ; lay them in a 
box of charcoal dust and keep them in a dry, dark, and 
cool place. When wanted, they are soaked in cold water 
for a few minutes, and washed. They are also preserved 
in hydrate of lime. When boiled hard, let them cool and 
place them in a dry, cool, and dark place ; they will keep 
for weeks. If wanted warm after that, put them in cold 
water, set on the fire, and take off when the water is warm. 

With Mushrooms. — Cut in strips or fillets four mush* 
rooms, one onion, one clove of garlic, and fry them with 
two ounces of butter, then add a tablespoonfiil of flour, stir 
for about one minute, add also half a pint of broth, same 
of white wine, boil gently till reduced about one-half, when 
put in the pan eight or ten hard-boiled eggs cut in dice, 
or cut the whites only in dice and put in the yolk whole, 
boil one minute and serve. It makes an excellent dish foi 
breakfast. 



E0G8« UACASOm, AlTD BICE. 357 

With Cheese and Par9ley.'-^\A about two ounces of 
butter in a saucepan on tbe fire, and when melted fry in 
it a tablespoonfdl of parsley, chopped fine ; then add a 
pinch of nutmeg, salt, pepper, about four ounces of* pine- 
apple or Gruy^re cheese, grated^ and a gill of white wine ; 
stir till the cheese is melted, when you add eight or ten 
eggs, one after another, stirring the whole time and mixing 
them with the cheese; serve when done. More cheese 
may be used, according to taste. 

In FricdssSe. — ^Put about half a pound of stale bread 
with one pint of milk in a saucepan on the fire and boil for 
two or three minutes, then mash well so as to mix the two 
together, put back on the fire, stir continually till it makes 
a rather thin paste, then take off, mix with it six or eight 
eggs, grated cheese to taste, salt and pepper, put back on 
the fire, stir, and serve when cooked. Lemon-juice may be 
sprinkled on just before serving. 

A la Zy<mnat«c,(— Chop fine two white onions and fry 
them with two ounces of butter, then add salt, a pinch of 
nutmeg, half a pint of broth ; boil gently and stir now and 
then till it turns rather thick, when you add also eight 
whites of eggs, chopped; give one boil, and serve. Place 
the eight yolks, whole, all around, and between and alter- 
nately a small osikQ feuilletSy and serve warm. 

A la BichameL — Slice the eggs or cut them in four 
pieces lengthwise, put them in Bechamel sauce, set on a 
slow fire for two minutes, and serve warm. 

Fines Herhes, — Mix well together in a saucepan, and 
cold, two ounces of butter with a tablespoonful of flour ; 
set on the fire, stir, and when melted thoroughly, add a 
teaspoonful of parsley aud one of chives, chopped fine, salt, 
pepper, and about a gill of white wine; stir, and boil 
gently for about five minutes, aud turn over hard-boiled 



358 EGOS, ICAOABONI, AND BIOS. 

eggs in a dish ; serve warm. The eggs are served whole, 
shelled, but not cut 

Piquante-Sauce. — ^Dish hard-boiled eggs as for Jlnea 
herhesy and turn over them a piquante sance; serve 
warm. They may be served in the same way with any 
other sance. 

Stuffed, or h VAurore. — Cut six hard-boiled e^s in 
two lengthwise ; take the yolks off the whites ; chop Uiem 
fine with six or eight sprigs of parsley, pat both eggs and 
parsley in a bowl ; add salt, pepper, a little nutmeg grated, 
a piece of the soft part of bread soaked in milk and 
squeezed, three ounces of butter, mix the whole well. 
Then with the mixture fill the whites, that is, the place 
where the yolks were ; fill a little more than full, so that 
all the mixture will go into and upon the twelve halves. 
Lay in a saucepan a purSe of spinach or of sorrel, or of 
any other vegetable, according to taste ; lay the halves of 
eggs on it, tiie mixture upward ; put for ten minutes in 
the oven, and serve warm. 

In Boxes. — ^Fold note-paper so as to make a kind of 
square box without a cover ; put half an ounce of butter 
in it with a pinch of chopped parsley; lay it on a grid- 
iron and on a slow fire, break an egg in it, and when 
nearly done add salt and bread-crumbs, to taste ; serve 
warm when done. 

With Cheese. — Prepare as the above; add grated 
cheese at the same time you add salt and bread-crumbs ; 
finish the cooking, and serve wann. 

Au Gratin. — Chop fine six or eight sprigs of parsley, a 
shallot if handy, or a small onion, half an ounce of the soft 
part of brei^d, an anchovy, and then mix the whole well 
with two ounces of butter ; mix again with two yolks of 
eggs, place the mixture in a tin dish, place on a slow fire^ 



EQQQy HAOABONI^ AND BICE. 359 

and when getting ratiher dry break half a dozen eggs over 
it, dust witii bread-cmmba, season with salt and pepper, 
and when nearly done spread two yolks of eggs beaten, 
with a teaspoonfiil of water over the whole, and serve 
warm. 

With Ham. — ^Prepare as scrambled ^gs with the ex- 
ception that yon pnt in the pan, at the same time yon pnt 
in the e^s, four ounces of boiled ham cut in dice. Serve 
the same. 

With Milky Water, or Cream. — ^These three names 
are wrongly applied to eggs in many cook-books ; they are 
creams, and not eggs. 

Ham and Eggs, — There are several ways of preparing 
this good dish ; the ham may be raw or boiled ; in slices} 
or in dice ; mixed with the eggs, or merely served under. 
Fry the ham slightly, dish it and then turn fried eggs over 
it ; or fry both at the same time, the eggs being whole or 
scrambled, according to taste. 

With Asparagus, — Cut in pieces, about a quarter of 
an inch long, a gill of the tender part of asparagus, throw 
it in boiling water with a little salt ; boil as directed, and 
drain. Beat eight eggs just enough to mix the yolks with 
the whites ; put them in a stewpan, season with a pinch of 
grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper ; add also a tablespoon- 
ful of warm water, set on a slow fire, stir till they are be- 
coming thick; then add four ounces of butter, stir five 
minutes longer ; add the gill of asparagus ; simmer about 
five minutes longer, and serve. 

Boiled, — {See Eggs in the Shell.) — ^Put the eggs in 
boiling water with a little salt, as near as possible at the 
first boiimg ; leave from five to ten minutes ; take out and 
pnt them immediately in cold water; then ^hell them 
without breaking them, and use. 



360 EaGH3, MACABONIy A2n> BICB. 

With Broton Butter, — ^Break gently in a plate or dish, 
and without breaking the yolks, eight eggs ; sprinkle salt 
and pepper on them. Pat two oonces of batter in a fry- 
ing-pan, and on a good fire ; when taming brown subdae 
the fire. Put also, and at the same time, the same quan- 
tity of batter in another firying-pan, and on a good fire, 
and when hot, place the e^s in without breaking the 
yolks ; then spread over the eggs the brown batter you 
have in the other ; take from the fire when you see the 
whites becoming hard ; put them on a dish, pour on them 
a tablespoonful of vinegar which you have warmed in the 
pan after having used the brown butter, and serve. 

Fried, — ^Put half a pound of lard in a frying-pan, and 
on a good fire ; when hot, break gently, one by one (be- 
ing careful not to break the yolk), the quantity of eggs 
you can put in the pan without allowing them to adhere 
together ; turn them upside down once with a spoon or 
skimmer ; take from the pan with a skimmer as soon as 
the white part becomes hard, and serve with fried parsley 
around. 

Scrambled^ or Mashed, — ^Beat six eggs just enough to 
mix the whites and yolks together ; put two ounces of 
butter in a stewpan, and set on the fire ; when melted, 
take from the fire, add salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated 
nutmeg, then the eggs, also a tablespoonfiil of broth ; put 
back on a very slow fire, stir continually till cooked, and 
serve warm. 

Sur le Plat, — ^Butter the bottom of a crockery or tin 
dish with two ounces of butter ; break into the dish and 
over the butter, gently and without breaking the yolks, 
six eggs; sprinkle salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg all over, 
put the dish on a slow fire, or on warm cinders, and when 
the white is hard, serve. They must be served in the dish 
in which they are cooked. 



EGGS, MACABOm, AND BICE. 361 

In the SheU. — ^Bear in mind that some eggs cook 
quicker than others. Pat eggs in boiling water for two 
minutes, if liked soft or underdone ; and three minutes, if 
liked more done. They are generally served enveloped in 
a napkin. 

In Matelote. — ^Put a bottle of claret wine in a stewpan 
and set it on a good fire ; add to it two sprigs of parsley, 
one of thyme, a clove of garlic, a middling-sized onion, a 
clove, a bay-leaf, salt, and pepper ; boil fifteen minutes ; 
then take all the seasonings out and have your wine boil- 
ing gently ; break one egg in by letting it fall gently in 
order to have it entire, and then take it out immediately 
with a skimmer, and place it on a dish ; do the same with 
eight eggs ; keep them in a warm (but not hot) place. 
After which put in the wine, without taking it from the 
fire, four ounces of butter kneaded with a tablespoonful 
of flour; boil till reduced to a proper thickness, pour it 
on the eggs, and serve. 

With Onions. — Cut in dice three middling-sized 
onions and put them in a saucepan with four ounces of 
butter; set it on a moderate fire and stir now and then 
till the onions are turning yellow, then sprinkle on them 
a teaspoonful of flour, salt, and pepper ; add a pint of 
warm water and boil gently till rather thick, but not too 
much so. Put into the saucepan half a dozen hard-boiled 
eggs cut in four pieces each, lengthwise, boil gently two 
or three minutes longer, and serve warm. 

With Green P^cw.— Proceed as for eggs with asparagus, 
except that you boil a gill of peas instead of asparagus ; 
prepare and serve in the same way. 

With Cauliflowers. — ^Blanch the cauliflowers and pro- 
ceed as for the above. Eggs are prepared as above^ with 
celery, lettuce, etc. 

16 



S62 EGGS, MACABONI, AND BICE. 

A la Trtp6.— Proceed exactly the same as for ^ga 
with onioDs, except that yoa use milk or broth instead of 
water. 

A la Ndgtj or Floating Island, — ^Beat four (or more) 
whites of eggs to a stiff froth. Put in a tin saucepan 
one pint of milk and one ounce of sugar, set on the fire, 
and as soon as it rises put lumps of the whites into it with 
a skimmer, turn the lumps over after having been in about 
half a minute, leave them in another half minute, take 
them off with a skimmer also, place them on a sieve to 
allow the milk that may be around the lamps to drop. 
Put in a tin saucepan four yolks of eggs, two uances of 
sugar, and mix well ; add the milk that has been used to 
cook the whites, after having strained it, and mix again. 
Set on the fire, stir, give one boil, take off^ add a few drops 
of essence to flavor ; turn into a dish ; place the lumps of 
whites gently on the liquor and they will floal , and serve 
cold. If the liquor is desired thicker, use oni/ half of the 
milk. 

To poa>ch Eggs, — Set cold water on the fire in a frying- 
pan, with salt and vinegar in it, a table^oonful of vin- 
egar to a quart of water. As soon as it boils, break a 
fresh' e^ in the water or in a small plate, and slide it 
gently into the water. Then with a skimmer turn the 
white gently and by degrees over the yolk, so as to en- 
velop the latter in the former, giving the eggs an elon- 
gated shape. They may be poached hard or soft — ^hard 
when the yolk is cooked hard; soft when the yolk is 
still in a soft state. 

Fondue of Eggs, — ^Beat well six eggs, and put them in a 
Btcwpan with two ounces of Qruyhre, well grated, and about 
one ounce of butter; set on a brisk fire, and leave till it 
becomes rather thick, stirring all the time with a wooden 



EGGS, MACABOSfl, AITD BICE. 363 

q)Oon ; take from the fire, add pepper, and stir a little ; 
turn over on a warm dish, and serve. This is a very 
favorite dish in Italy, and also in Switzerland, where it 
originated. 

To beat Whites of Eggs. — ^Have a convenient basin ; 
break the e^s gently ; allow the whites to fall in the basin 
and retain tiie yolks in the shell. This is very easily 
done by breaking the shell abont the middle, opening 
slowly so as to let the white fall, and at the same time re« 
tain the yolk in one of the halves of the shell ; if some 
white remains, turn the yolk from one half into the other, 
and vice versa, till the whole of it has fallen. Then add a 
very small pinch of salt to prevent the curdling of the 
eggs ; commence by beating slowly ; beat faster and faster, 
till they form a stiff froth. They are well beaten when, 
placing a twenty-five and a ten-cent silver piece on the 
top, they are firm enough to bear them. If the pieces 
sink, beat again. Always beat eggs in a cool place, they 
will rise better and faster. {See Ego-bbateb.) 

5a«n.— Pay no attention to the old prejudice and 
belief that metal is not good to beat eggs in. The best 
and easiest for family use, in which one as well as a dozen 
whites of eggs can be easUy whisked, is of block-tin, and 
can be made by any tinsmith. It has the shape of an 
ordinary goblet or tumbler if the foot is cut ofi^, the 
bottom being round. Size : six inches deep from the cen« 
tre of the bottom to the top ; eight inches in diameter at 
the top, and only six inches in diameter where the bottom 
commences (or five inches from the top) ; the basin being 
broader at the top than at the bottom, and the bottom 
being one inch deeper in the centre than on the sides. 

Omelets — how to heat the Eggs, — Break in a bowl the 
quantity of eggs you want, or as inany as there are per* 



364 EQGS, MiLGABONI, AIO) BICE. 

Bons at the table ; beat them well with salt and pepper, bf 
means of a fork. A little grated nutmeg may be added, 
if liked. The adding of milk to the eggs makes the ome* 
let soft. 

To make it, — Always have a brisk fire to make an ome- 
let ; the quicker it is made the better, and the less butter 
it requires. If possible, have a frying-pan to make ome- 
lets only in; keep it in a clean place and never wash 
it if you can help it ; by warming it a little before making 
the omelets and wiping it with a coarse towel, you can 
keep it as clean as can be without washing. To wash it 
causes the omelet to adhere to it while cooking, and in- 
jures its appearance. Commence by beating the eggs, 
then put the butter in the frying-pan, about two ounces 
for eight eggs ; set on the fire and toss gently to melt the 
butter as evenly and as quickly as possible, else some of 
it will get black before the whole is melted. As soon 
as melted, turn the beaten eggs in, and stir and move con- 
tinually with a fork or knife, so as to cook the whole as 
nearly as possible at the same time. If some part of the 
omelet sticks to the pan, add a little butter, and raise that 
part with a knife so as to allow the butter to run under 
it, and prevent it from sticking again. It must be done 
quickly, and without taking the pan fi'om the fire. When 
cooked according to taste, soft or hard, fold, dish, and 
serve warm. 

It is folded in this way : run the knife or fork under 
one part of the omelet, on the side nearest to the handle 
of the pan, and turn that part over the other part of the 
omelet, so as to double it or nearly so ; then have an oval 
dish in your left hand, take hold of the frying-pan with 
the right hand, the thumb upward instead of the fingers, 
as is generally the case in taking hold of a pan, incline 



EGOS, HACABONT, AKD BICE. 865 

the dish by raisiDg the left side, place the edge of the pan 
(the one opposite to the handle) on the edge of the dish, 
turn it npside down — and you have the omelet on the 
dish, doubled up and sightly. Cooks do not succeed in 
turning out a decent omelet generally, because they cook it 
too much, turn it upside down in the pan, or because 
they do not know how to handle the pan. 

In holding the pan as it is generally and naturally held, 
that is, with the palm of the hand resting on the upper 
side of the handle, it is impossible for anybody, cook or 
other, to dish the omelet properly without extraordinary 
efforts ; while by resting the thumb on the upper part of 
the handle, the fingers under it, the little finger being the 
nearest to the pan, it is only necessary to move the right 
hand from right to left, describing a circle and twisting 
the wrist, so that, when the pan is turned upside down, the 
fingers are up instead of downward, as they were when 
taking hold of the pan. 

An omelet is called soft if, when you commence to 
fold, only about two-thirds of the eggs are solidified ; and 
hard, when nearly the whole of the eggs are solidified. 
With a good fire it takes only about four minutes to make 
an omelet. 

By following our directions carefully, it will be very 
easy to make an omelet, and make it well and sightly, 
even the first time, and will be child's play to make one 
after a few days' practice. 

With Apples, — ^Peel two or three apples, cut them in 
thin, round slices, fry them with a little butter, and take 
them from the pan ; then put a little more butter in the 
pan, and when hot, pour in it six beaten eggs, in which 
vou have mixed the slices of apples ; cook, di^, and servo 
as directed above. 



366 EGGS, MAOABONI, Am) BICE. 

With Aiparagus. — Oat the eatable part of the a«pa^ 
agas half an inch in length, throw them in boiling water 
with a little salt, draia them when cooked, and chop them 
fine ; beat them with eggs and a litUe milk ; have hot 
bntter in a frying-pan on a good fire ; ponr the eggs hi, 
tossing continnally till done, and serre on a dish as di- 
rected. 

With Bacon, — Put two oances of butter in a frying- 
pan ; when melted, add two ounces of bacon cut in dice; 
when turning brown and very hot, pour in eight eggs, 
beaten as directed above ; toss the pan nearly all the time 
till done, and serve as directed. 

Au naturel. — ^Beat five eggs, with salt and pepper, as 
directed. Put about an ounce of butter in a frying-pan 
on the fire, and when melted, turn the eggs in ; cook, 
dish, and serve as directed. 

Aux Fines J3er&e«.— Proceed as for au naturel in every 
particular, except that you beat with the eggs a table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, or parsley and chives, when 
handy ; cook, dish, and serve in the same way. 

Celestine, — ^Beat eight eggs as directed. Dip the 
point of a small kitchen knife in water and cut with it 
little lumps of butter the size of a pea and of any shape ; 
about two ounces of it, drop them in the ^gs and beat a 
little to mix, then melt butter in a frying-pan and cook, 
dish, and serve as directed. 

In the Oven, — When the omelet au naturel or Celestine 
is cooked enough to commence folding, put the frying-pan 
Id a quick oveu for about one minute and serve. The 
omelet swells and does not need folding, but if it gains in 
bulk, it loses in taste. 

Jardiniere, — CJhop fine, parsley, chives, onions, shallots, 
a few leaves of sorrel, and a few spngs of chervil ; beat 



EGGS, MAOABONI, AJSTD BICE. 367 

and mix the whole well with beaten ^gs ; cook, dish, and 
serve as directed. It requires a little more batter than if 
made with eggs only. 

With Cheese. — Grate some pineapple or Gruyere 
cheese, about two ounces to four or five eggs, and mix and 
beat it with the eggs ; then make the omelet as directed. 

With Kidney, — 8aut6 as directed, till about half done, 
part of a beef or calfs kidney, or one sheep^s kidney, 
and mix it with beaten eggs. Cook and serve as directed. 
It makes an excellent dish for breakfisusEt. The kidney 
may be cooked till done, and when the omelet is to be 
folded in the pan, put five or six tablespoonfuls of the 
kidney on the middle of the omelet, fold, dish, and serve 
as directed. When dished, none of the kidney is seen, 
being under the omelet. 

With J/t£sAroom«.— Cut mushrooms in pieces, and mix 
them with beaten eggs ; then cook and serve them as di* 
rected. This also makes an excellent dish for breakfast, 
especially if made with fresh mushrooms. 

With SorreL^^M&ke an omelet au naturel or CSleatine^ 
and serve it on a purie of sorrel The same may be served 
on a pur4e of tomatoes or onions. 

With Lobster. — Cut two ounces of boiled lobster in 
small diee, mix it well with beaten eggs, and cook and 
serve as directed. 

With Sugar. — ^Mix well the yolks of eight eggs with 
two ounces of fine white sugar and a pinch of salt, and 
beat well the whites ; then mix well yolks, whites, and the 
rind of half a lemon, having the latter chopped very fine. 
Put four ounces of butter in a frying-pan, and set it on the 
fire ; when melted, pour the eggs in, and toss and stir as 
directed. Then dust a dish with fine white sugar, put the 
omelet on, then dust again the upper side with the same ; 



368 EOGBy MACABONI, AND BIOE. 

have ready a red-hot shovel, or any other flat piece of iron, 
pass it over the top of the omelet, so as to color it while 
melting the sugar, and serve warm. The whole process 
must be performed quickly. The sugar may be beaten 
with the e^s whole ; both ways are good ; it is only a 
question of taste. 

With Mum. — ^Make an omelet with sugar as above, and 
when on the table, pour a gill or so of rum on it, set fire 
to it, and let it bum as long as it can, taking slowly but 
continually with a silver spoon the rum from the sides, and 
pouring it on the iliiddle while it is burning, and until it 
dies out by itself; then eat immediately. 

With Truffles. — Slice four ounces of truffles, beat them 
with six eggs, a little milk, and a little salt and pepper. 
Put in a frying-pan four ounces of butter, and set it on a 
good fire ; when melted, pour the eggs in, toss almost con- 
tinually till done, and serve as directed for omelets. 

With Ham. — Gut four ounces of ham in small dice, 
and set it on the fire in a frying-pan with about two ounces 
of butter ; stir, and while the ham is frying, beat six eggs 
and turn them over the ham in the pan when the latter is 
fried ; stir with a fork, to cook the eggs as quickly as pos- 
sible ; turn the part of the omelet nearest to you over the 
other part by means of a fork, and serve like an omelet 
au naturel. 

With Boiled, ^am.— Proceed as for the above in every 
particular, except that you mix the ham with the eggs after 
the latter are beaten ; put the mixture in the frying-pan, 
and finish as the above. 

With Salt Pork (called omelet au Lard). — ^Beat balf 
a dozen eggs with a fork. Cut four ounces of salt pork 
m dice, set it on the fire in a frying-pan, and when nearly 
fried turn the eggs in ; stir, and finish as other omeleta 



EGGS, MACAEOIO, AND SICS. 869 

Lean or fat salt pork (accordiiig to taste) may be used, or 
both. If it is all lean, nse some butter, otherwise it will 
bum. 

Soufflee, — Put in a bowl four ounces of pulver- 
ized sugar with four yolks of eggs ; then with a wooden 
spoon mix well and stir for two minutes ; add a few drops 
of essence to flavor. Beat the whites of four eggs to a 
stiff froth in another bowl, and when you see that they are 
beaten enough, turn two tablespoonfiils of the yolks and 
sugar into them, and while still beating, but not as fast ; 
then turn the rest of the yolks and sugar into the whites, 
and mix gently with a wooden spoon. Butter a tin or 
rilver dish, turn the mixture into it, smooth or scallop 
with the back of a knife, dust with sagar, and bake in an 
oven at about 810°. It takes about twelve minutes to bake. 

-4no/Aer.— Mix well six yolks of eggs with four ounces 
of sugar; beat the six whites to a stiff froth and mix them 
with the rest, add some lemon-rind chopped very fine or 
grated. Put four ounces of butter ii;i a crockery dish, set 
on a moderate fire, and when the butter is melted pour the 
eggs in ; stir with a fork, and as soon as you see some of 
the mixture becoming hard^ place the dish in a hot oven 
for about five minutes; take off, dust with sugar, and 
serve. 

MacSdoine^ or h la Washington. — ^Make four omelets 
of four eggs each, one with apples, one with asparagus or 
sorrel (according to the season), a third with fines herbes, 
and the fourth au naturel ; you serve them on the same 
dishj one lapping over the other. It makes a fine as well 
as a good dish. 

This omelet, or rather these omelets, were a favorite 
dish with the Father of his Country ; they were very often 
served on his table when he had a grand dinner. It is also 

16* 



370 EGOB, HAOABOia, AJSCD EICB. 

Beryed with the four following omeletB : au naturel^ with 
«alt pork, fines herhes^ and with cheese. 

With Oysters, — Blanch a dozen oysters, drain, and 
beat with the eggs, and then proceed as directed. 

With Tunny ^ or any kind of smoked or salt Fish.^^ 
Beat the eggs as directed, using little or no salt; then 
chop the fish fine, mix and beat it with the eggs, and cook 
as directed. It requires a little more batter than if there 
were no fish. A few drops of Icmon-jnice may be added 
when dished. 

With Stoeetmeats.'^Maike an omelet au naturel^ ana 
when ready to be folded in the pan, place on the middle 
of it two or three tablespoonfuls of any kind of sweetr 
meats, then fold and serve. 

Omelets are served as entremets after the vegetables, and 
at breakfast All but four are served as entremets, and all 
are served at breakfast ; the four excepted are : with ba- 
con, ham, salt pork, and kidneys. By using different 
kinds of sweetmeats, an infinite number of omelets can 
be made, and, except the soufflSe, they are all made alike. 

Macaroni, — ^This excellent article of food is now as 
well known here as in Europe. The harder the wheat the 
better the macaroni. The manufacturers of this country 
use Michigan flour in preference to any other. 

To blanch, — ^Put about three pints of cold water and 
a little salt on the fire, and at the first boiling drop half a 
pound of macaroni into it; boil gently till tender but not 
soft. It takes about twenty minutes to boil it, according 
to quality. A little butter, about two ounces, may be 
added in boiling. As soon as tender, turn it into a colan* 
der, and it is ready for use. 

Au Ghratin, — ^Blanch the macaroni, and when drained 
put it on a tin or silver aish, and mix with it a Bicham^ 



BGGS, MAGABOm, AND BICE. 371 

Hiuce ; add salt, pepper, two or three ounces of batter, a 
little nutmeg grated, about four ounces of grated cheese, 
either pine-apple, Chruyhre, or Parmesan ; dust with bread- 
crumbs, put about eight pieces of butter the size of a 
hazel-nut here and there on the top, set in a warm but 
not quick oven till the top turns rather brown, and senre 
warm as it is, that is, in the dish in which it is. If in a 
tin dish, put it inside of another dish, and serve. 

A ritalienne, — Blanch half a pound of macaroni 
and drain it Put it in a saucepan with four ounces of 
butter, and mix well by stirring the butter in the warm 
macaroni. Then add also three or four tablcspoonfiils of 
gravy; mix again half a pint of tomatoHsauce and grated 
cheese, as for au gratin ; set on the fire, stir, add salt to 
taste ; keep on the fire for about ten minutes, stirring now 
and then, and serve warm. 

iTopo/ttoiiw.— This is the most expensive way of pre- 
paring macaroni Wealthy Italians have it prepared with 
beef h la mode gravy only, or gravy made especially for 
it, with good lean beef cut in dice, and using as many as 
twelve pounds of meat to make gravy for one pound of 
macaroni, the meat being prepared as boiled beef after- 
ward, but it can be prepared with ordinary gravy. 

Blanch four ounces of macaroni and drain as directed, 
then put it in a saucepan with two ounces of butter, salt, 
pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and set on the fire ; stir 
till the butter is melted, and then add grated cheese as 
directed for au gratin, and half a pint of gravy ; stir and 
mix for abont ten minutes, and serve. Macaroni requires 
much butter ; the quantity of cheese is according to taste ; 
some put weight for weight of macaroni, butter, and 
cheese. It is also prepared in a mould {en timhaU) for 
chartreuse; it is macaroni I^apoUiaine, when every thing 



373 EGGS, MAOABONI, ASD BIOE. 

is mixed with it ; instead of leaving it ten minutes on the 
fire, put it in the mould, set in the oven for about fifteen 
minutes, turn over a dish, and serve warm. In using much 
cheese, the macaroni will preserve the form of the mould 
when served. 

In Croquettes. — Proceed as for rice croqttettes. 

Riee — to 6oi/.*— Wash half a pound of rice in water 
and drain it ; put it in a saucepan with one quart of broth 
taken firom the top of the broth-kettle, and before having 
skimmed off the fat ; set on the fire, boil gently for about 
fifteen minutes, or till rather underdone, and put on a 
very slow fire to finish the cooking. Water and butter 
may be used instead of broth. K the broth is absorbed 
or boiled away before the rice is cooked, add a little more 
to keep it moist ; add salt, pepper, and nutm^ to taste, 
and it is ready for use. 

Another way, — When boUed, place it in a slow oven 
to dry it, and then pour over it, Httle by little, stirring the 
while, four ounces of melted hotter. 

Another, — ^Wash half a pound of rice in cold water 
and drain it Pat it in a saucepan with two quarts of 
cold water, salt, and the juice of two lemons; boil six 
minutes, and drain ; put it in a saucepan then with about 
six ounces of melted butter ; mix, cover the pan well, and 
put it in a slow oven for about half an hour ; take off and use. 

Bice may be boiled in several different ways, or rather 
with several ingredients. To the above ways, in India or 
other southern countries, they add, besides salt and nut- 
meg, a teaspoonfal of curry-powder to a pound of rice. 
In Italy they add slices of ham, sausage, safiiron, and even 
Parmesan cheese. When cooked, chopped truffles may be 
added at the same time with the butter. Oil is sometimes 
used instead of butter. 



i 



EGOS, 1IA.CAB0NI, A2n> BICE. 373 

In Border, — ^When thus prepared, take it with a spoon 
and place it all around the dish, leaving room in the mid- 
dle to serve a bird, and then serve warm. 

Another way. — When prepared as above, put the rice 
in a mould for border; the rice must be rather dry and 
the mould well buttered. Press on it so as to fill the 
mould well, then put it in an oven at about 350 deg. Fahr. 
for ten or twelve minutes. Take off, place a dish on the 
mould, turn it upside down, and remove the mould. The 
inside of a mould, for border, is plain, but the outside 
and bottom are scalloped ; the bottom makes the top of 
the rice when served. There is an empty place in the 
centre to hold a bird. 

Caie, — Butter a mould well and- then dust it with su- 
gar. Prepare rice as directed for croqttettes, and instead 
4>f spreading it on a dish to cool, fill the mould about two- 
thirds full with it, and bake in a warm but not quick oven 
for about half an hour. Serve on a dish. The mould 
may be prepared with sugar only in this way : put pul- 
verized sugar into the mould, set it on a rather slow 
fire, and when turning rather brown turn the mould round 
and round, so as to have it lined all over with sugar ; bake 
as above, turn over a dish, remove the mould, and serve 
hot or cold, with or without a sauce for puddings. 

In Croquettes, — Wash four ounces of rice in cold water 
and set it on the fire with a pint of milk and the rind of 
half a lemon ; when done or nearly so, the milk may be 
boiled away or absorbed by the rice ; add a little more to 
keep the rice nearly covered with it. When done, take 
off and mix with it two tablespoonfiils of sugar, two ounces 
of butter, two tablespoonfuls of milk, three yolks of eggs, a 
litUe pinch of salt, and the same of nutmeg— -the latter, if 
liked. Put back on the fire for one minute, stimng the 



374 EGGS, MACABOin, AND BIOS. 

while. Spread the mixtnie on a dish and let cooL If the 
croquettes are for breakfast^ the above may be done the 
evening previous. When cold, stir the mixture, so as to 
mix the upper part with the rest that is less dry. Put it 
in parts on the paste-board, about a tablespoonful for each 
part Have bread-crumbs on it, roll each part of the shape 
you wish, either round, like a small sausage, or flat, or of 
a chop-shape. Then dip each croquette in beaten egg, roll 
in bread-crumbs again, and fry in hot fait, {See Fbtdto.) 

To shape them, roll each part round at first, and with 
a few bread-crumbs ; then with a Imife you smooth both 
ends, while you roll them round with the left hand ; the 
two must be done at the same time. When fried and in 
the colander, dust with sugar, and serve as warm as possi- 
ble. Croquettes are generally served in pyramid. A nap- 
kin may be spread on the platter, and the croquettes served 
on it 

In Fritters. — ^When a rice-cake is cold, it may be cut 
in pieces, dipped in batter for fritters, fried (see Fbtino), 
dusted with sugar, and served hot. 

Souffle. — ^Prepare rice as directed for croquettes, and 
when ready to be spread on a dish, add a few drops of es- 
sence to flavor ; have flve whites of eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth, and mix them gently with it ; butter a mould well, 
fill it two4hirds full with the mixture, dust with sugar and 
set in a warm but not quick oven, and serve as soon as 
brown and raised. It takes from fifteen to twenty minutes. 
If the oven is warmer under the cake than on the top, it 
would be necessary to place something under the mould, 
the cake rises better and is lighter. This cake, like every 
wafflij must be served promptly and before it £sdls. 

With Fruit. — ^This dish is excellent, sightly, easily 
made, and can be varied infinitely. The rice is prepared 



EGGS, MAOiLBOia, AliO) SICE. 375 

as for croquettes, and is used when ready to be spread over 
a dish to cooL The fruit, if it be apples, pears, plums, etc., 
is stewed. One or several kinds may be used for the same 
dish. It is served warm or cold, according to taste. Place 
a layer of stewed fruit on a dish and then a layer of rice 
over it ; another layer of the same or of another stewed 
fruit, and over it a layer of rice. Place as many layers as 
you fancy, imitating a pyramid, and you have a fine dish. 

Bice-water, — This being often prescribed by doctors 
against diarrhoea, we will give the receipt for it. See that 
the rice is clean, but do not wash it. Put one pint of rice 
in a pan with a quart of cold water, and boil gently till the 
rice is quite soft or a little overdone ; if the water boils 
away, fill up with cold water so as to have the rice always 
covered by it. When done, mash it through a colander, 
put back on the fire, add water to make it thin or thick, 
according to prescription ; as soon as warm, sweeten to 
taste with sugar or honey, and take cold or warm, also ac- 
cording to prescription. 

NouilUs, — ^Put four tablespoonfuls of flour on the 
paste-board ; make a hole in the middle, and break two 
eggs in it, add a pinch of salt, and knead well; then 
roll down to a thickness of one-twelftJi of an inch ; dust it 
slightly with flour ; cut it in strips about an inch wide ; 
then cut these strips across, so as to make fillets one inch 
long and one-eighth of an inch broad. Spread the strips 
on a sieve for half an hour, to dry them a little. Put cold 
water and a pinch of salt in a saucepan, and set it on the 
fire ; at the first boiling throw the nouUles in, boil two 
minutes, stirring occasionally ; drain, throw them in cold 
water and it is ready for use. It may be kept in cold 
water half a day. NouUUs are used to make soup, and 
•re prepared in the same and every way like macaroni. 



SWEET DISHES. 



Thesb are serred both as entremets and dessert Many 
ire entremets at a grand dinner, and dessert at a family 
dinner. As the name indicates, sugar is one of the most 
important of the compounds used to prepare them. It is 
nsed in sjmp, the maMng of which is generally more diffi- 
cult than the rest of the operation. 

The father of eookSy the great Carbme, divides syrup, 
or the " cooking of sugar," as he calls it, and as ereiy 
practitioner has called it since, into six degrees ; each one 
corresponding to the six different states into which the 
sugar passes, while on the fire, from the time it begins to 
boil to that when it begins to turn caramel or burned. 

A copper pan is the best and handiest of all ; it can be 
done in another, but it is more difficult ; the sugar turns 
Drown before being thoroughly cooked or reduced. Al- 
ways use good loaf 6ugar. If it be necessary to clarify it, 
do it in the following way : for five pounds of sugar, put 
the white of an egg in a bowl with half a pint of water, and 
beat well with an egg-beater ; then tarn into it nearly three 
pints of water, stir, put away half a pint of it to be used 
afterward. Then add to the rest five pounds of sugar, in 



SWEEI DISHES. 877 

iUmps, set on a rather slow fire, and as soon as it conies to 
a boil, mix with it the half pint put away, little by little, 
skimming off carefully the while, and when no more scum 
gathers on the surface, strain through a towel and com- 
mence the working. If the sugar does not require to be 
clarified, that is, when it is good white sugar, set five 
pounds of it on the fire, in a copper pan, with nearly two 
quarts of water, and skim off carefully as soon as the scum 
gathers. It may be stirred a little to cause the sugar to 
melt evenly, but as soon as it commences to boil, stop stir- 
ring, else it will turn white and stringy. It passes from 
one state or degree to another in a very short time, and 
must be watched closely. It is at the fir%t degree when, 
by dipping a piece of wood into it so as to retain a drop 
of it at the end, and which you touch with another piece 
of wood— i^ by pulling them apart, slowly and immedi- 
ately, instead of separating it at once, it forms a thread, but 
that soon breaks. It marks then 34 at the hydrometer. 
It is at the second degree when, by repeating the same pro- 
cesS| the kind of thread formed does not break as easily as 
the first. It marks then 86. It is at the third degree 
when, by dipping a skimmer in it, holding it horizon- 
tally and striking it on the pan, then blowing on it, it 
forms small bubbles. It marks 39 at the hydrometer. It 
is at the fourth degree by trying again with the skimmer 
after a short time, and when, instead of forming bubbles, 
it will fly away like threads. It marks then 41. The 
Jif(h degree is when, by dipping a piece of wood in the 
sugar and quickly dipping it also in a bowl of cold water, 
shaking it at the same time and then biting it ; if it breaks 
easily between the teeth, but at the same time is sticky, it 
has attained the fifth degree, and marks 44. A few boil« 
ings more and it is at the ^th degree, and by trying in the 



378 SWEET DIBHE8. 

same way as the preceding one, it will break under the 
teeth, but will not stick to them. Above 44 the mark is 
nncertaiD, the symp being too thick ; it passes from that 
state to that of caramel; is colored, and wonld bum imme- 
diately. When that happens, make burnt sugar with it 
according to direction. 

Apples au Beurre.'^'Peel and core the apples with a 
A'ait-corer. Cut slices of stale bread about one-quarter 
of an inch in thickness, and then cut them agun of a 
round shape with a paste-cutter and of the size of the ap- 
ples. Spread some butter on each slice and place an apple 
on each also. Butter a bakepan, place the apples and 
bread in, fill the hole made in the middle of the apple to 
core it with sugar ; place on the top of the sugar and on 
each a piece of butter the size of a hazel-nut, and set in a 
warm, but not quick oven. When about half done, fill the 
hole again with sugar and a pinch of cinnamon, place but- 
ter on top as before, and finish the cooking, serve warm. 
When done, they may be glazed with apple-jelly and put 
back in the oven for two minutes ; the dish is more sightly. 

Mamhantes. — ^Lay apples in a saucepan, after being 
peeled and cored, add sugar to taste, and water enough just 
to cover them, also a stick of cinnamon, and set on a rather 
slow fire, and leave till done. Take them firom the pan 
carefully and without breaking them ; place them on a dn 
or silver dish, forming a kind of pyramid or mound ; turn 
the juice over them, dust with sugar, pour good rum all 
over, set it on fire, and serve immediately and warm. As 
soon as on fire it is placed on the table, and the host must 
baste with the rum so as to keep it burning till all the alco- 
hol is exhausted, then serve. 

The following cut represents eithei a dish of applet 
flamhantes before being in flames, or apples with rice. 



BWBET DISHBB. 



In Frittert. — Feel, core, and cat apples in slices, and 
(lien proceed as directed for Mtters. Serve hot 

With Wine. — Proceed aa for appleayamfiante* in every 
particular except that yon slice the apples, and instead of 
pouring mm over, yon poor Madeira wine, and do not set 
it on fire. 

Meringv,iei, — Peel, qnarter, and core half a doEcn ap- 
ples ; set them on the fire in a saucepan with two table- 
spoonfols of wat«r; stir occasionally till done, then mix 
with them two or tbree tablesptoonfiila of sngar, and wnen 
cold put them on a tin or silver dish ; arrange them as a 
monnd on the middle of the dish. Beat three nhites of 
eggs to a stiff froth, and mix three ounces of pulverized 
sngar with them ; spread two thirds of that mlztnre all 
over and around the apples, smooth it with a knife ; then 
pat the other third in a paper fimne), and by squeezeing it 
ont, decorate the dish according to foncy. Yon may 
squeeze some small heaps of the mixture here and there, 
over and around the dish, or squeeze it oat all around, 
giving it a rope-like shape. Dast with sugar, and pnt in 
an oven at 250 degrees for twenty to twenty-five minutes. 
Serve warm in the dish in which it has been baked. 

CAarloffa.— Peel, qnarter, and core six applea; pnt 
lliem in a pan with two tableepoonfols of water, cinnamon, 
and stew till done, when add three orfoor onnoes of sugar, 



380 8WEET DISHES. 

mix gently so as not to mash the apples, let cooL Butter 
a mould well, line it, bottom and sides, with strips of stale 
bread, about one quarter of an inch thick, one inch broad, 
and of a proper length for the mould* Fill till about half 
full with some of the apples, then put a rather thin layer 
of any kind of sweetmeat on the apples ; finish the fill- 
ing up with apples ; cover with pieces of stale bread, bake 
in an oven at about 340 degrees for about twenty minutes, 
turn over on a dish, remove the mould, and serve hot 

With Sweetmeats, — Prepare apples au heurre^ and 
when ready to be served, fill the hole with any kind of 
sweetmeats or with currant-jelly. Serve warm. 

Jn Pine-Apple, — Core the apples with a fruit-corei 
and then peel them with the scalloped knife (the peels 
are used to make syrup or jelly), place them tastefully on 
a dish, so that they will form a pyramid, filling the place 
where the core was with sugar and a little cinnamon ; then 
pour a little apple-syrup on the whole, and bake. .When 
done, pour a little more syrup over, and serve cold or 
warm. 

AppU-Syrup, — Peel, quarter, and core four or six ap» 
pies, of the pippin variety ; cook them well in about a 
pint of water, a wine-glass of brandy, and a pinch ot 
grated cinnamoo ; when well cooked, put them in a 
coarse towel, and press the juice out ; put it in a stew* 
pan and set it on a good fire ; add a pound of loaf-sugar, 
take the foam ofi* with a skimmer a little before it boils, 
and boil about five minutes ; take fix>m the fire, let cool, 
bottle it, corking well. It may be kept for months. 
Syrup with pears, pine-apple, etc., is made in the same way. 

BlcmC'Mange.^^^ on the fire in a block-tin saucepan 

one quart of milk with the rind of a lemon and two table- 

/ spoonfuls of sugar ; stir occasionallv to melt the sugar. 



SWEET DISHES. 381 

Tlien mix about six ounces of corn-starch witlx half a 
pint of milk in a bowl. As soon as the milk rises, take it 
from the fire ; take off with a skimmer the rind of lemon, 
and the skin that has formed on the top of the milk ; 
put the milk back on the fire ; turn the corn-starch into 
it, stir continually and very ^t till it is v^ry thick. It 
will take hardly a minute to get thick. Turn into a 
mould wetted with cold water and put away to cooL 
When perfectly cold, serve with the following sauce : Mix 
well in a tin saucepan two ounces of sugar and two yolks 
of eggs, then add half a pint of milk and mix again ; set 
on the fire ; stir continually, give one boil ; take ofi*; let 
cool, and serve. 

Blanc-Manger, — ^Throw in boiling water two ounces 
of sweet almonds and the same of bitter ones, or pour 
boiling water over them, and then skin them as soon as the 
skin comes off easily. Pound them well with four 
ounces of sugar, lay the whole in a pan with about a pint 
of water, set on the fire, and when on the point of boil* 
ing, take off and strain. Put in a tin saucepan about a 
pint of milk, the strained juice, an ounce of gelatm, a 
little rind of lemon, and a little nutmeg, both grated ; set 
the whole on a moderate fire ; simmer just enough to 
melt the gelatin and mix it with the rest, and then strain. 
Wet a mould with cold water, put the mixture in it, 
set it on ice, and serve when cooL It may be served 
with a sauce like the above. 

Charlotte Busse, — Wipe a mould well, see that it is 
dry, and then line the bottom and sides with lady's-fingers, 
or sponge cake cut in pieces about the size of a lady's 
finger. Commence bv lining the bottom, placing the 
pieces 80 as to form a ^tar or rosette, or plain, according 
JO fancy. Then place some of them upright all around, 



882 SWEET DISHES. 

racier tight, and even with the top of the mould Fill 
with cream, well whipped, sweetened, and flavored with 
essence ; place the monld on ice, and when ready to serve, 
place a dish on it, turn upside down, remove the mould, 
and serve as it is, or decorated. 

To decorate. — ^Make a paper fimnel, fill it with cream, 
or icing (sugar and white of egg worked), then spread some 
all over the top according to fiincy ; it is quickly done 
and is sightly. The mould may also he filled with some 
other cream ; as crhne Ughre^ creme euite^ etc 

Charlotte a la Chantilly. — ^It is a Charlotte made ex- 
actly as the ahove one, but filled with crhme a la ChanUUy, 

A la Polonaise. — ^Make a sponge cake, cut it trans- 
versely, dip each piece in cream (any kind) and then 
place them back where they were so as to give the cake 
its original form as near as possible When thus re-formed, 
cover it with cream, dust with sugar, and decorate with 
any kind of sweetmeats. Besides the sweetmeats that are 
placed here and there all around, some currant-jeUy may 
also be used to decorate. Place on ice for some time, and 
serve. 

Italian, — Peel, quarter, and core about a quart of 
pears and set them on a rather slow fire, in a saucepan 
with half a pint of white wine, sugar, cinnamon, and 
lemon-rind. While they are cooking, line a mould as foi 
Charlotte Musee, remove the lemon-rind, and fill the mould 
with the pears; place it on ice when cool, turn over on a 
dish, remove the mould, decorate with icing, or cover en- 
tirely with apple-jelly, and serve. It is also made with 
genoise cake instead of sponge cake. 

Franpaise. — ^This is prepared and served like a Char 
lotte Musae, with the exception that it is filled with blanc 
manger or Jromage h la creme instead of cieaoL 



SWEET DISHES. 383 

Of FruiU — ^This is made of cherries or any kind of 
berries ; cherries must be stoned carefully. Dip the fruit 
in -wine-jelly as soon as the latter is cool, but not firm, and 
line a mould with it. By having the mould on ice it will 
be more easily done. Fill the mould with cream, as for 
Charlotte RuMe^ place on ice, and serve as soon as con- 
gealed. When the mould is taken from the ice, dip it 
in warm water a few seconds, place a dish over it, turn 
upside down, remove it, and serve immediately. A Char- 
lotte of fruit is sightly enough without decorations ; it re- 
quires some time to make it, but it is worth the trouble, 
being a handsome as well as a good dish. 

Another, — ^Line a mould as for the above. Put one 
ounce of gelatin in a bowl with about three tablespoonfuls 
of water and leave it so for about half an hour. Mix well 
together in a saucepan four yolks of eggs and three 
ounces of pulverized sugar, add about three tablespoonfuls 
of milk, and mix again ; set on the fire and stir for about 
three minutes, add the gelatin, stir again, give one boil, 
and put away to cool a little. Beat four whites of eggs 
to a stiff froth, turn the above mixture into them, mix 
gently again ; fill the mould with the whole, place on ice 
till perfectly cold. When cold, turn upside down on a 
dish, remove the mould, decorate as the preceding one, 
and serve cold. 

Cheese with Cream — (Fromage a la Creme). — ^This is 
made in different ways ; sometimes with soft curds only, 
or with curds and cream, or with cream only when very 
thick. Gelatin dissolved in a little water may also be 
added. The curds or cream, or both, are beaten with an 
egg-beater, sweetened to taste with sugar, and flavored 
with essence. To make it more sightly, when beaten and 
flavored, it is moulded, placed on ice to make it firm. anJ 



884 SWEET DISHES. 

then tamed over a disb, the mould removed, and then 
served. Any land of essence may be used to flavor it, 
such as vanilla, fieur d» orangery rose-water, violet, etc. ; it 
may also be made with coffee, tea, chocolate, orange, 
lemon, etc. Put a few drops of very strong cofiee, or tea, 
or chocolate at the same time with the sugar and essence. 

With orange or lemon, rub them on a piece of sugar, 
which you pound and use to sweeten the cheese. Three 
or more different ones may be made with a quart of curds; 
for instance, flavor one third of it with essence, another 
third with coffee or chocolate, and the other with orange. 
The colors will be different also. It is an excellent 
and refreshing entrernets in summer-time. Cheese may 
also be flavored with pine-apple cut in very small dice and 
mixed with it instead of essence. 

CompoteSy or Jams. — How to make syrup for Compotes, 
— Comm^on Syrup. — ^Put a pound of loaf-sugar in a crock- 
ery stewpan, with a pint of water, a wine-glass of brandy, 
and a pinch of well-grated cinnamon ; set it on a slow fire, 
boil gently for ten minutes, skimming off the foam ; then 
take from the fire and let cool ; bottle it ; cork it well and 
keep it to use when wanted. It may be kept for months 
in a cool and dry place. 

Stewed fruit of any kind is called either compote 
or jam. They are first peeled and cored and then cooked 
with sugar, water, and sometimes cinnamon, or cloves, 
both in powder and according to taste ; also lemon-juice 
or rind to taste. Cinnamon agrees well with any kind of 
apples, but is not liked by every one in every kind of 
fruit. The fruits may be cooked and served whole, in 
halves, or quarters, or mashed, according to fancy and 
taste. The proportions of water and sugar are also ac- 
cording to taste, or according to the nature or state of 



SWEET DISHES. 385 

the fruitb Sour apples require more sugar than sweet 
ones, nnripe berries require more also than ripe ones. The 
preparation is very simple ; not being prepared to keep, 
thej are served as soon as cold. They may be served 
warm, but they are certainly not as good. When there 
is not syrup (juice) enough, pour some of the above over 
the fruit, or some applensyrup. The peels and cores of 
the apples may be used to make syrup, together with 
those of pears. 

While peeling, coring, or cutting fruit, drop each in 
cold water, else it changes color and is nnsightly. 

When cold, the compote may be put in a mould ; turn 
over a dish, remove the mould, and serve. Several kinds 
may be served on the same dish as well as one ; being of 
different colors, the dish is more sightly, and quite as 
good. Loaf-sugar is the best. 

Instead of cooking them with water, etc., as directed 
above, put some syrup on the fire, and as soon as it boils, 
drop the prepared fruit in it, and boil slowly till done. 

Of Aj)ples,--^QasLrte;rf peel, core, and put apples in a 
stewpan with a gill of water for two quarts, sugar and 
cinnamon to taste ; wher done, dish them, pour the juice 
in the stewpan all over, and serve cold. If there is not 
juice enough, add some apple-syrup. 

Of Apricots or Peaches. — ^Take two quarts of apricots 
or peaches and cut them in two, remove the stones. Throw 
them in boiling water for two minutes and take off; drop 
in cold water and take out immediately, then skin them. 
Put about half a pint of water in a crockery pan or in a 
well-lined one, and at the first boll put the peaches in, 
with sugar to taste ; boil gently till done, turn the whole 
over a dish, and serve cold, v If there is not juice or syrup 
enough, add a litde common syrup. 

17 



886 SWEET DISHES 

Of Blackberries^ Currants^ .RaspherrieSj Strawberries^ 
and other like ^eme«.-7-Prepare syrup of sugar, and when 
at the second, third, or fourth state, throw the berries in ; 
boil from one to five minutes, according to the kind, take 
from the fire, and serve when cold. 

0/ Cherries. — Cut off the stalks of the cherries about 
half their length, wash well and drain them.. Put them 
in a stewpan in which there is just enotigh syrup at the 
first degree to cover them ; boil slowly till cooked, and 
serve. 

0/ Oranges. — ^Peel four oranges^ and divide each car- 
pel without breaking it, and then throw them in syrup 
of sugar at the fourth or fifth degree, and boil slowly three 
or four minutes; take from the fire, let cool, and serve. 

Of Pears.— *Peel the pears, cut the stem half its 
length, put them in a stewpan with a little sugar, a few 
drops of lemon-juice, a pinch of cinnamon, and a little 
water. Set on a moderate fire, and at the first boiling add 
two gills of claret wine. Simmer till cooked, then put 
the pears only on a dish ; set the stewpan back on the fire, 
add to the juice in it about the same quantity of syrup 
of pears or of syrup of sugar at the third degree, boil 
fifteen minutes longer, pour the whole on the pears, and 
serve warm or cold. 

Of Lemons. — ^Peel the lemons, cut them in pieces, re« 
move the seeds, and proceed as for that of oranges, boil- 
ing a little longer. 

Of Pine-Apple. — ^Peel and cut in slices, put them in a 
erockery pan, with a little water and sugar, set on a good 
fire, and finish and serve like apricots. 

Of Plums. — ^Throw the plums in boiling water, and 
take them out when half cooked ; put them in a crockeij 
stewpan, with a little water and a little sugar; simmer 



SWEET DISHES. 887 

till cooked, plaee tliein on a dish, poor some common 
syrop on, and serve when cold. 

Of Quinces. — Qnartery peel, and core the quinces; 
throw them in boiling water for five minutes; take ont 
and dnun them ; put them in a crockery stewpan, with 
four ounces of sugar for every pound of quinces, a few 
drops of lemon-juice, a little water, and a pinch of grated 
cinnamon ; set it on the fire, simmer till cooked, place 
them on a dish, pour some common syrup on them, and 
serve cold. 

Of Chestnuts, — ^Roast about one quart of chestnuts, 
remove the skin and pith, lay them in a pan with half a 
gill of water and four ounces of sugar ; set on a slow fire, 
toss now and then till the sugar and water are absorbed or 
evaporated, turn over a dish, dust with sugar, and serve 
warm or cold. A few drops of lemon-juice may be added 
just before dusting with sugar. 

Cold Ctnnpote, — ^Wash strawberries and raspberries in 
cold water, drain dry, and place them on a dish. Four 
boiling common syrup or boiling currant-jelly all over ; 
let cool, and serve. 

Of Cranberries. — ^Put one pint of water in a tin sauce- 
pan, with six ounces of loaf^ugar, the rind of half a lemon, 
and set it on the fire ; boil down until, by dipping a spoon 
in it, it adheres to it. Then throw in it about one pint 
of cranberries; boil about twelve minutes, stirring now 
and then, take off, let cool, and serve. 

Another. — ^After having boiled ten minutes in the same 
way as above, and with the same proportions of sugar, 
cranberries, etc., take from the fire, mash through a fine 
colander or sieve, put back on the fire, boil gently five 
minutes, let cool, and serve. 

Creatns or Orhmes au Citron (with Lemon). — ^Put one 



388 SWEET DISHES. 

pint of milk in a tin saucepan with the rind of a lemon ; 
set on the fire, and as soon as it rises place an iron spoon 
in it and boil gently five minutes; take from the fire. 
Mix well in a bowl four ounces of sugar with four yolks 
of eggs, then turn the milk into the bowl, little by little, 
stirring and mixing at the same time. Strain the mixture 
and put it in small cups ; put the cups in a pan of boiling 
water, boil gently for about ten minutes, and put in the 
oven as it is, that is, leaving the cups in the water. The 
cups must not be more than half covered with water, else 
the water will fly into it. It takes from ten to fifteen 
minutes to finish the cooking in the oven, according to the 
size of the cups. Take them from the oven when the 
erhne is rather firm, except a little spot in the middle, and 
which you ascertain by moving the cups. 

Any one with an ordinary amount of intelligence can 
make creams as well as the best cooks, after having tried 
only two or three times. When you know how to make 
one, you can make fifty, just by using different flavorings. 

Au Cafi (with (7o/ee).— -The stronger the coffee the 
better the cream. The most economical way of making 
strong coffee is : when you intend to have cream with 
coffee for dinner, put the first drops that fall, when you 
make the coffee for breakfisist, into a glass ; put it imme- 
diately in cold water, and as soon as cool coyer it with 
paper, which you tie around it with twine, and use when 
you make the cream. 

Always use good fresh milk and fresh eggs. As soon 
as the whites of the eggs are separated from the yolks, put 
them, together with the shells, on ice, and use the next 
day to clarify your jellies, or to make icing, etc A little 
eare is a great saving in the kitchen. 

Put one quart of milk in a milk-pan on the fire and 



BWEET DISHES. 889 

take off as soon as it rises. While tlie mUk is on the fire, 
mix well together in a bowl eight jolks of eggs with half 
a pound of sugar, and coffee to flavor ; then turn the milk 
into the mixture, little by little, stirring the while ; when 
the whole is thoroughly mixed, strain it. Put the mixture 
in cream-cups, place the cups in a pan of boiling water — 
enough water to half cover them ; boil slowly for about 
ten minutes, put the pan and cups in a moderately-heated 
oven, and take off when done. It takes from ten to fifteen 
minutes to finish the cooking, according to the size of the 
cups. It is done when the whole is solidified except a 
little spot in the centre, which, by moving the cups, will 
shake somewhat. Serve cold. 

With Burnt Sugar. — ^Pnt two ounces of sugar in a 
small tin pan, with a tablespoonfiil of water, set on the 
fire, and boil till burnt and of a light-brown color ; take 
off, and put it in a stewpan with a pint of milk, four 
ounces of white sugar, a few drops of rose or orange- 
flower water ; boil ten minutes, stirring occasionally ; take 
from the fire, beat the yolks of two eggs, and one entire, 
put in the pan and mix the whole well, then strain, after 
which you put the mixture in small cream-pots for that 
purpose ; place them in a hot but not boiling ftatn-manc, 
and as soon as it thickens take them out, dust them with 
fine white sugar, let CDol ; place them on ice for about fif- 
teen minutes, and then it is ready to be served. 

With Chocolate, — ^Put in a stewpan and on a moderate 
fire six ounces of chocolate, three tablespoonfuls of water, 
three ounces of white sugar, stir now and then with a 
wooden spoon till melted ; then pour in it, little by little, 
a quart of good fresh milk ; boil ten minutes, take from 
the fire, and mix in it one e^ well beaten with the yolks 
of five others ; strain through a fine sieve, put in cream- 



390 SWEET DISHES. 

pots or cnpsy place them in a hot but not boilii^ ftatn-manSy 
take off as soon as it thickens, dost with fine white sagar, 
let cool, place on ice for about fifteen minutes, and nse. 

With Orange. — ^Use orange-rind, and proceed as for 
lemon-cream in every other particular. 

With Tea. — ^Proceed with strong tea as for cream att 
eafi in every other particular. 

With Essence. — ^Make cream au caf6^ with the excep- 
tion that, instead of using coffee to flavor, you use a few 
drops of vanilla, rose-water, orange-flower water, violet, 
cinnamon, etc. — any kind of essence, to taste. 

With Cinnamo7i. — Beat well together in a bowl about 
an ounce of potato-starch, a teaspoonful of cinnamon, four 
eggs, foor ounces of sugar, and milk enough to make a 
rather liquid batter. Turn the mixture into a mould, which 
put into a pan of boiling water for fifteen minutes, then 
place in the oven till cooked. Serve cold. 

Cuite. — ^Put two ounces of sugar in a tin pan with two 
eggHy and mix well ; then add an ounce of flour, little by 
little, mixing the while ; then, in the same way, add also 
about a pint of boiled milk ; set on the fire, slir continually 
till it turns rather thick; take ofi^ flavor with essence to 
taste, let cool, and serve or use for filling. 

Frangipane. — Set one pint of milk on the fire. Mix 
well together in another pan three tablespoonfnls of sugar, 
two of fiour, three eggs, three macaroons cmmbled, and 
as soon as the milk rises, turn the mixture into it, little by 
little, stirring and mixing the while ; keep stirring about 
three minutes ; take off, add a few drops of essence to 
flavor ; turn into a bowl, let cool, and it is ready for use. 
It may be made without the macaroons. 

With Almonds. — ^Make as the above, with the excep- 
tion that you use sweet almonds, chopped fine, instead of' 
macaroons. 



SWEET DISHES. 391 

With Hazel-miis, — ^Proceed as aboye, using hazelnatfl 
instead of almonds. 

lAghre, — ^Mix well together in a tin saucepan five yolks 
of eggs and five ounces of sugar ; add four tablespoonfuls 
of milk, and mix again. Set the pan on the fire, and stir 
continually till it turns rather thick; take off, and add a 
few drops of essence ; turn into a plate or disli and let 
cool. When cold, beat five whites of eggs to a stiff froth ; 
have somebody to pour in the whites, and^ while you 
are still beating, ab(Tnt two tablespoonfuls of the cold 
mixture, and stop heating. Then turn the rest of the mix- 
ture into the whites, and mix the whole together gently ; 
do not stir too much, but niove round and round with 
a wooden spoon, and it is done. If it is stirred too much, 
it may become too liquid. It makes an excellent and 
light cream. 

PaUmere, — Beat four whites of eggs to a stift' froth, 
and then mix about one ounce of pulverized sugar with 
them. Put four yolks of e^s in a bowl with half a gill 
of milk, and beat well till thoroughly mixed. Put in a 
saucepan about two ounces of pulverized sugar, with a tea- 
spoonful of potato-starch (fecula), and two-thirds of a gill 
of milk, and mix the whole well ; then add the eggs and 
milk, and beat the whole well with an egg-beater. Set 
the pan on a rather slow fire, stir continually with a wooden 
spoon till it turns rather thick, and then turn the four 
whites and sugar into the pan also, little by little, stirring 
the while, and take off when thoroughly mixed. As soon 
as off the fire, add essence to flavor, and about one-quarter 
of an ounce of gelatine, dissolved in tepid water. Serve, 
or use to fill when cold. 

Renversee. — Make cream with tea, coffee, or chocolate, 
and instead of turning the mixture into creanc pots, turn 



892 swEsr dishes. 

it into a mould lined with bnmt sngar ; place the mould 
in boiling water for aboat fifteen minutes, place it in the 
OYcn to finish the cooking, turn over a dish, remove the 
mould, and serve cold. To line the mould, put two or 
three tablespoonfuls of pulverized sugar in it; set it on 
a slow fire, and when the sugar is melted and turning 
brown, mo?e the mould round and round to spread the 
sugar all over ; then put the cream in it 

Sweet Cream. — ^We mean here the oily substance which 
forms a scum on milk ; also called tohijpped cream. It is 
used to make Charlotte Kusse, to fill w^nguei^ chouXy or 
cream-cakes, etc. 

Put a pint of good thick cream in a bowl, and if the 
weather is warm, place the bowl on ice for half an hour, 
then beat the cream with an egg-beater till stiff and thick. 
If the cream does not become stiff after having beaten it 
fifteen or twenty minutes at the longest, it is not good, or 
it is too warm. Good cream may rise and become stiff m 
five minutes. When beaten, add to it about four ounces 
of pulverized sugar, which you mix gently with it, not 
stirring too much ; add also a few drops of essence to 
flavor. If wanted very stiff, add also, after the sugar, half 
an ounce of gelatin, melted in a little tepid water. When 
beaten and mixed, if not used immediately, it must be put 
on ice. 

(Jhantilly, — It is the above cream flavored with fieur 
^orange (orange-flower water), or with essence of violet. 

Ice Cream, — ^Made with cream it is richer than with 
milk. With eggs it is better and richer than without, and 
those that advocate it without eggs, either have no palate, 
or do not know how to- use them in making it 

The addition of starch, fecula, arrow-root, flour, meal, 
etc., spoils it. The proportions are, to a quart of milk oi 



SWEET DISHES. 393 

oream: from four to six eggs; from eight to fourteen 
oances of pnlverized sugar ; essence, or chocolate, or fruit- 
jelly to flavor and color. Our receipt is for six eggs and 
fourteen ounces of sugar to a quart of milk. 

Set the milk on the fire, and when it comes to a boil, 
mix well half the sugar and the essence with six yolks 
and three whites of eggs ; beat the three other whites sep- 
arately to a stiff froth. As soon as the milk rises, take it 
from the fire, puii half the sugar in it and stir to melt it, 
then turn the mixture into it also, little by little, beating 
the while with an egg-beater ; set on the fire, and take off 
at the first boiling. While on the fire it must be beaten 
gently, as, if it is allowed to boil, the eggs may curdle. 
As soon as off the fire, mix the three whites with the rest^ 
beating with an egg-beater, just enough to mix the whole 
well ; put in cold, salt water to cool, and then freeze. 

The smaller the ice is broken and mixed with plenty 
of rock-salt, the quicker it freezes. 

Custard, — ^Put four yolks of eggs in a bowl, then 
sprinkle flour on them, little by little, stirring and mix- 
ing well the while with a wooden spoon, and when the 
mixture is rather thick, stop sprinkling flour, but sprinkle 
milk, and mix again in the same way till the mixture is 
liquid; add sugar and essence to taste, beat the four 
whites to a stiff froth, mix them gently with the rest ; 
butter a mould well, fill it about two-thirds full with the 
mixture, and set in a warm but not quick oven. Serve as 
soon as out of the oven. K intended to be served cold, 
omit the whites of eggs. 

Fritters.'^These are made with every kind of fruit, when 
ripe, peeled and stoned, or cored when necessary, and accord- 
ing to the kind. The fruit is used whole, such as strawber* 
ries and the like ; or in slices, such as apples, pears, etc. ; 
17* 



394 BWBET DIBHBS. 

or in halves, like peaches, plums, etc It may he used ar 
soon as prepared; or may be soaked a few houn in a mix- 
tare of sngar, brandy, oi mm, and lemon-rind. 

Have batter for fiittert made in advance, and while 
you are preparing the froit heat the fat {see Fbtiko), dip 
each fruit or each slice in batter, drop it in the fat, stir 
and torn over,. and when done, turn into a colander, dust 
well with fine white or pulverized sugar, and serve as 
warm (or rather as hot) as posnble. Even the best fritters 
served cold make a very poor dbh. Besides fruit, the 
blossoms of the acacia and those of the violet make the 
most delicate fritters. 

With Bread or Pain perdu, — Set one pint of milk on 
the fire with two ounces of sngar, and the rind of half a 
lemon, stir now and then, and when it rises add a few 
drops of essence to flavor, then take off and soak in it 
slices of bread, cut with a paste-cutter and about half an 
inck thick. When well soaked, drain ; dip them in beaten 
egg, roll in bread-crumbs, and fry and serve as fritters. 

Glazed Fruit — Orangee glazed. — Oranges or any 
other fruit glazed, when mounted in a pyramid, is called 
croque en louche. 

Feel the oranges ; then divide the carpels and free them 
from the pith, and put them away in a warm place for a 
few hours ; they may be left over night Cut very fine 
wire in pieces about eight inches long, bend each piece at 
both ends, forming a hook ; tben run one end or book 
through the carpel of orange, and hang it on a stick placed 
on something horizontally. In order not to spill any of the 
juice, hook the orange near the edge of that part that was 
the centre of the orange before being divided, and as the other 
end of the wire forms a hook also, it is easy to hang it. 

Prepare syrup of sugar, and when at the sixth degree 



BW£S?r DISHSB. 395 

take it from the fire, dip each carpel of orange into it and 
hang it agam, and so on for tbe whole. As soon as dry 
enough to handle them, which takes hardly half a minnte, 
pull off the wire and serve when perfectly cold. 

To mount them in pyramid is not difficult, hut requires 
time. When they are cold, prepare again the same syrup 
of sugar as ahove, and take it from the fire. While the 
sugar is on the fire take a tin mould, a plain one^ larger 
at the top than at the bottom, and slightly grease it with 
sweet-oil. A convenient size for a. family is, seven inches 
high, six inches broad at the top, and only four inches at 
the bottom. 

Place one carpel of orange, resting on the bottom of 
the mould, along the side and the edge upward ; as soon 
as the sugar is out of the fire, dip one of the two endis of 
another carpel into it, the edge only, and immediately 
place it as the first one, and touching it. The syrup being 
hot and li<][uid, the two pieces will adhere ; do the same 
with others till you have one row around the bottom. 
Oomttience a second row as you did the first, but this 
time the first carpel you place must be dipped in sugar, 
m order to adhere to the first row, and all the others must 
also be dipped so as to adhere not only to the first piece 
placed, but also to the first row ; and so on for each row 
till the mould is full, or tUl you have as much as you 
wish. As soon as cold, place a dish on the mould, turn up- 
side down, and remove the mould. You have then a 
sightly dish, but not better than when served only glazed. 

Another way to make it. — Grease with oil your marble 
for pastry, place the same mould as above over it but up- 
side down, that is, the broader end down ; grease the out- 
side also with oiL Th^n place the rows cf carpels of 
oranges all around outside of it^ and in the same way aa 



396 SWSBT DI8HBS. 

described above. The eroque en houeke is more easily 
made this last way, bat it is more difficult to remoye the 
mould. Mould and fruit must be turned upside dowr 
carefdUj, after which the mould is palled ofL 

If the syrup gets cold, it hardens, and cannot bo used; 
in that state, add a little water and put it back on the 
fire, but it is difficult to rcwarm it ; generally it colors and 
is unfit When that happens, make burnt sugar with 
it^ or a nauffat. It is better and safer to make a little of 
it, just what can be used before it gets cold, and if not 
enough, make some a second and even a third time. 
While the sugar is hot, and while you are dipping the 
fruit in it, be careful not to touch it, as it bums badly. 
In glazing the fruit first, some syrup falls in taking it from 
the pan to the stick; place your marble board, greased 
with oil, under, so that you can pick it without any trouble 
and use it. 

Chestnuts, plazed.^-Roasi the chestnuts, skin them 
well, then hook, dip, and hook again on the stick as di- 
rected for pieces of oranges. A pyramid also may be 
made, and a sightly one it makes. 

Cherries, — They must be picked with their stems, and 
by which you tie two together with a piece of twine. See 
that they are clean and dry, and have two sticks instead 
of one, placed parallel, about two inches apart, in order 
to prevent the two cherries from touching, when hung, as 
they would immediately adhere. Proceed for the rest as 
described for oranges. 

Pears, — Small, ripe pears are excellent glazed; peel 
them, but leave the stem on, and then proceed as ¥ath 
cherries in every particular. 

Strawberries or any other Berries, — ^The berries must 
be picked with the stem. Wash them in cold water, draiui 



SWEET DISHES. 397 

Iry, or wipe carefdUy, and tlien proceed as for cherries in 
every particular. A more delicate dish than strawberries 
or raspberries glazed cannot be made. 

Orapes. — ^When clean, proceed as described for cherries. 

Plums, — ^Take plums, well ripened and with the stems 
on, and proceed as with cherries. 

Prunes. — Soak the prunes in tepid water, and when 
dry, hook them like carpels of orange, and finish in the 
same manner. 

Currants. — ^When clean and dry, tie two clusters to- 
gether, and proceed as for cherries. 

PinC'Apple. — Cut pine-apple in dice, and proceed as 
described for carpels of orange. « 

Iced Fruit. — As a general rule, the more watery the 
fruit the more reduced the syrup of sugar must be. If it 
is not reduced enough, small pieces of ice, formed by 
the water of the fruit, will be found while eating it. 
The fruit must be ripe. It is done also with preserved 
fruit It is impossible to teU exactly the degree or state 
of the fruit and syrup without a hydrometer. 

The following preparation may be added to the fruit, 
or to ^nc^, as soon as it begins to freeze ; it is not indis- 
pensable, but gives it more body : Put one pound of loaf- 
sugar in a copper pan with two gills of cold water, set on 
the fire, stir now and then till it comes to a boil, then boil 
till it is at the fifth state or 43"", and take ofil Beat four 
whites of eggs to a stiff froth, flavor with essence of vanilla, 
and turn the sugar into the eggs, little by little, but do 
not stop beating until the whole is in. Then move the 
mixture gently round with a spoon for about a minute, 
and it is ready for use. 

With Peaches^ Apricots, or Plums. — ^The following 
proportions are for one pint of juice. Peel and stone the 



898 8WSET DISHES. 

fruit carefnlly, then mash it tbroagh a sieve into a howl 
Make one pint of syrup of sugar at 82^, and when cold torn 
it into the bowl and mix it with the pint of juice, add the 
juice of a rather large orange and a little of the rind grated, 
mix again, freeze as directed for ice-cream, and serv^e. 

With CurrantSy Lemons^ Oranges^ Pears^ Pine-Apples^ 
StrawberrieSj and other Berries.-r-'PTOceed as for peaches 
in every particular, except that you press the juice of the 
currants and berries through a towel instead of mashing 
them through a sieve, and that you use the syrup at 44^ for 
them also ; the others are peeled and cored or seeded. 

With MeUme, — ^Proceed as for peaches, except that 
you ndd to the mixture a little kirschwaseer. 

With Preserved Fruit. — ^TJse the synip at 30°, and pro- 
ceed as for peaches in every other particular. 

Iced Coffee. — ^Make strong coffee, and when cold mix 
it with the same volume of thick cream, sweeten to taste, 
freeze, and serve. 

leed Chocohie. — ^Bireak in pieces about four ounces of 
chocolate, and set it on a slow fire in a tin pan, with two 
tablespoonfbls of water ; when melted take it from the fire, 
add a giU of warm water, and work it with a spoon for five 
minutes ; then mix it with the same volume of syrup of 
Bi ;far at 30°, freeze and serve. The syrup is used when 
col 1. 

Iced Tea is made as iced coffee. 

Sweet Jellies — Wine Jetty, — Soak two ounces of gela- 
tin in a gill of cold water for about half an hour. Put in 
a block*tin saucepan three eggs and shells, three ounces 
of sugar, one quart of cold water ; beat a little with an 
egg-beater to break the eggs, and mix the whole together; 
add also a few drops of burnt sugar, same of essence, rum, 
according to taste, from half a gill to half a pint, then the 



SWBET DIBHB8. 399 

gelatin and water in wliic& it is ; set on a good fire, stiiv 
ring slowly with an egg-beater, and stopping once in a 
while to see if it comes to a boil, when, stop stirring, keep 
boiling very slowly for two or three minutes, and torn into 
tbe jelly-bag, which yon do as soon as clear ; the process 
requires from two to three minntes. White it is boiling 
take a few drops with a spoon, and you will easily see when 
it is clear. Pass it through the bag three or four times, 
turn into a mould, put on ice, and when firm, put a dish 
on it, turn upside down, remove the mould, and serve. 

Jelly Macidoine.^-Maike the same jelly as above, and 
pass it througb the bag also ; put some in a mould, say a 
thickness of half an inch, have the mould on ice; then, as 
soon as it is firm, place some fruit on that layer and ac- 
cording to fancy ; and, with a tin ladle, pour more jelly 
into the mould, but carefully and slowly, in order not to 
upset the fruit you have in ; continue pouring till you have a 
thickness of about half an inch on the fruit Repeat this 
as many times as you please, and till the mould is full; 
vary the fruit at each layer, and especially the etdorof the 
different'kinds. The color of the jelly may also be changed 
at every layer, by mixing in it more burnt sugar, some 
carmine or cochineal, some green spinach, a little in 
one layer and more in another. Any kind of ripe fruit 
can be used: strawberries, raspberries, stoned cherries, 
grapes, apples cut in fancy shapes ; also peaches,' bananas, 
etc. 

Cold Wine-Jdly.'^'PvLt two ounces of gelatin in a bowl 
with a piece of cinnamon and a pint of cold water, and 
let stand about an hour. Then pour over about a quart 
9f boiling water, and let i^and about four minutes. After 
that, add two pounds of sugar, the juice of three lemons, 
a pint of sherry wine, and half a gUl of brandy. Stir to 



iOO SWBET DISHES. 

dissolve the sugar, and turn the mixture into a mould 
througli a strainer ; place on ice, and serve as the above 
jellies. 

Soufflh, — ^Fut in a bowl four tablespoonfals of potato- 
starch with three yolks of eggs, one ounce of butter, and a 
few drops of essence to flavor. Turn into it, little by lit- 
tle, stirring the while, about three gills of milk ; set on the 
fire, stir continually, and take off at the first boiling. Stir 
continually but slowly. As soon as cold, beat three yolks 
of eggs with a tablespoonful of cold water, and mix them 
with the rest Beat four whites of eggs to a stiff froth, 
and mix them also gently and slowly. Butter a mould 
well, fill it about two-thirds full, and bake in a warm but 
not quick oven (about 300° Fahr.). Besides being flavored 
with essence, ioujflis may be flavored with coffee, lemon, 
orange, etc., according to taste. Generally, saufflis are 
served under the name of the object used to flavor them, 
such as saufflS au eafS {gaujffli flavored with strong coffee), 
etc They are all made in the same way as the above one, 
with the exception that they are flavored with strong coffee 
as above, and used instead of essence, or strong tea, choco 
late, etc., or with a little jelly of different fruit, or with 
roasted chestnuts well pounded, instead of potato-starch, 
etc 

A hundred different kinds of souffles can be easily made 
by following the above directions. 

Apples, fried, — ^Peel and cut in small dice, dropping 
them in cold water till the whole is ready. Then fry with 
a little butter till about half cooked, when add a little 
water and sugar to taste ; finish the cooking, take from 
the fire ; beat a yolk of egg with a teaspoonf nl of cold 
water and mix it with the apples ; serve warm. Proceed 
m the same way with pears. 



SWEET DISHES. 401 

Peaches (oXr^df •— Cat peacbes in two, remove the stone, 
and with a paste-cntter cut some slices of bread, and place 
them in a buttered bakepan with half of a peach on each, 
the skin downward ; dust well with sugar, put a piece of 
butter the size of a Mdney-bean on each, place in a rather 
slow oven ; dish when cooked, turn the juice over, if any ; 
if none, a little syrup of pears, and serve warm. 

Do the same with apricoiSy plums^ and slices of piTie- 
apples. The slices of pine-apples may be soaked in hirsch- 
wasser for twenty-four hours before using them. 

Prunes, stewed. — ^Wash them in cold water if necessary. 
Soak them in tepid water for about two hours, and set the 
whole on the fire ; boil gently till half done, when add 
sugar to taste, a gill of claret wine to half a pound of prunes 
and serve either warm or cold when done. K the water 
boils away too much, add more. 

Currants, Blackberries, or other Fruit, for Dessert. — 
Beat well the white of an e^ with a little water ; dip the 
froit in, and roll it immediately in some fine-crushed sugar; 
place it on a dish, and leave it thus five or six hours, and 
serve. 

A more sightly and exquisite plate of dessert than a 
plate of currants dressed thus, cannot be had. 

Besides all our receipts, any kind of fruit may be served 
for dessert, according to the season; also any kind of 
cheese ; also fruits preserved in liquor. 

JSerries with Milk or Cream. — ^Nearly every kind of 
berries, when clean, maybe served with milk or cream, and 
sugar to taste. 

With Liquor. — ^They may also be served with brandy, 
rum, kirschwasser, whiskey, etc., and sugar. 

Marmalades, or Preserves of Fruits — Of Apricots or 
Peaches. — ^BoU two pounds of peaches for a minute, take 



402 BWEET DISHES. 

off and drop them immediately in cold water. Dnun and 
skin immediately, cnt in two and remove the stone. Crack 
two-thirds of the stones and throw the kernels in boiling 
water; leave them in till the skin comes off easily; 
skin them well and cnt them in small pieces, length- 
wise. Lay the peaches in a pan, with abont a ponnd and 
a half of sugar, set on the fire, boil abont twenty minutes, 
stirring the while with a wooden spoon ; a few minutes be- 
fore taking from the fire, put also the kernels in the pan ; 
then turn in pots or jars as soon as off the fire. Cover 
well when cold, and keep in a dry and cool (but not cold) 
closet. 

Of Plums. — Proceed as for the above. 

0/ Pears and Quinces, — Quarter, peel, and core the 
firuit, put it in a pan, and proceed for the rest as directed 
for peaches, except that you use sweet almonds instead of 
kernels. 

Of Bhckherries, CherrteSj Currants, EaspberrieSj and 
other like Berries. — ^Wash the fruit in cold water, drain, 
dry, and mash it through a sieve placed over a saucepan ; 
when the juice and pulp are in the pan add the same weight 
of loaf-sugar as that of juice, which is easily ascertained by 
weighing the pan first ; set on the fire, sMm it carefully ; it 
takes about half an hour to cook ; then put in pots and let 
cool ; cut a piece of white paper the size of the inside of 
the pot, dip it in brandy, put it over the fruit, cover the 
pots, and place them in a dry and cool closet. 

Of Chapes. — Select well-ripened grapes and pick the 
berries. Put them in a thick towel, and press the juice 
out, which you put in a copper or brass saucepan, set on a 
good fire, and boil till about half reduced. Skim off the 
scum, and stir now aid then while it is on the fire. Then 
add about half a pound of loaf-sugar to a pound of ]uice, 



swssrr dishics. 403 

boil again fifteen or twenty minutes, take ofl^ pat in pots 
or jars, coyer or cork well when cold, and pnt away in a 
dark and cool closet 

Candied or Comfiied Fruit — ^Ilie best state of the 
fruit to be candied is jnst when commencing to ripen or a 
litde before. It must be picked in dry we&ther, and be 
sound ; the least stain is enough to spoil it soon after it is 
preserved. 

Peaches. — ^Make a cot on the side of the fruit and re- 
move the stone without bruising it; then skin it carefully 
and drop it in a pan of cold water. When they are iJl in, 
set on the fire, boil gently till they float There must be 
much more water than is necessary to cover them, in order 
to see easily when they come to the sur&ce. Then take 
them off carefblly, with a skimmer, and drop them in cold 
water and drain. When drained, put them in a pan, cover 
them with syrup of sugar after it is skimmed and clarified. 
{See Stbup of Sugar.) The syrup must be boiling when 
turned over the fruit. Set on the fir^, give one boil only, 
and turn the whole into a boWl, which you cover with 
paper, and leave thus twelve or fifteen hours. After that 
time, drain, put the syrup on the fire, the peaches in the 
bowl, and at the first boiling of the syrdp, turn it over the 
fruit, cover the botvl with paper, and leave about as long, 
that iS) twelve or fifiieen hours. 

Repeat the same process three times more, in all five 
times. The last time the syrup must be at the first state 
as described for syrup of sugar. Inexperienced persons 
win do well to try at first with a few fruits, and go through 
the whole process, after which it will be compai^tively easy. 

Every one is awkward in doing a thing for the first 
time, and does not do it well, however easy or simple it 
may be. That is the reason why societies of farmers make 



104 SWEET DISHES. 

better preserves than other people; they teach one an 
other ; and besides, no one is allowed to touch the frail 
before having seen it done several times. 

Candied froit, as well as preserves, get spoiled by fer- 
mentation, if not cooked enough ; by moisture, if kept in 
a damp place; or by heat, if kept in a warm place. 

When the last process has been gone through, leave 
the fruit in the bowl about twenty-four hours ; then put it 
in jars, cover air-tight, and put away in a dry and cool 
closet It may also be drained, dried on a riddle in a warm 
place, and kept in boxes. A wooden riddle or screen is 
better than a metal one. They may also be put in decan- 
ters, covered with brandy or other liquor, and corked well. 
When preserved in brandy, it is not necessary to remove 
the stone ; they may be covered with half syrup and half 
brandy. 

Plums, — ^Pick them just before commencing to ripen^ 
and cut the stem half way. When clean, but neither 
stoned nor skinned, prick them around the stem with a 
fork, drop them in cold water, set on the fire, add a gill of 
vinegar to three quarts of water, and take from the fire as 
soon as they float. Drain, put them in a bowl, pour boil- 
ing syrup of sugar over them, and proceed as directed for 
peaches, that is, cover and pour the syrup on them five 
times in all. They are kept like peaches also, either in 
jars, dried, or in brandy. 

Fears. — ^After being peeled and the stem cut off half 
way, they may be preserved whole or in quarters. In 
peeling them, they must bo dropped in cold water with a 
little lemon-juice to keep them white. They are picked 
just before commencing to ripen. When ready, put cold 
water and the juice of a lemon to every two quarts in a 
deep pan, and drop the pears in, set on the fire and boil 



SWEET DISHES. 405 

gently till well done ; take off, drain and drop in cold 
water, which you change two or three times and without 
stopping ; then diain again, place them in a large bowl, 
and then proceed as for peaches. They are kept like 
peaches also. 

Apples. — ^Proceed as for pears, except that apples are 
cooked much quicker. 

Fine-Apples. — ^Peel, slice, and drop the fruit in cold 
water ; add a little sugar, set on the fire and boil gently 
till done, when drain and drop in cold water and drain 
again. Put them in a bowl, and proceed as for peaches 
for the rest, with the exception that they are kept in jars 
only, and not dried or put in brandy. 

Chestnuts. — Skin the chestnuts and put them m cold 
water on the fire, and take ofif when tender ; then remove 
the under skin or white envelope or pith. Place them in 
a bowl, and proceed as for peaches for the rest 

Oranges. — Drop oranges in boiling water and take off 
when the rind is tender, and when a darning-needle can 
be run through it easily. Drain and drop them in cold 
water. After two or three hours drain, cut in slices, and 
put them in a bowl ; then proceed as for peaches, except 
that they are kept in jars only. 

Quinces. — ^Peel, quarter, and core quinces just before 
they commence ripening, drop in boiling water ; drain them 
when done, and drop them immediately in cold water. 
As soon as cold, take them off, drain and put them in a 
bowl. For the rest, proceed as for peaches, with the ex- 
ception that they are only kept in jars, but neither dried 
nor put in brandy. 

To Pbbsbrye in Brandy. — ^Besides the dried fruits 
above described, several may be preserved in brandy, with- 
out being cooked and soaked in syrup of sugar. 



A06 8WEST DISHES. 

Cherr%€9. — ^Pick them when fully ripe, see that the] 
are dean, and put them in decanters with cloves, pieces 
of cinnamon, and entirely covered with brandy; cover well, 
but do not cork, and leave thus two weeks, at the end of 
which, place a colander over a vessel and empty the de» 
canters into it ; pass the liqnor through a jelly-bsg, mix it 
with some syrup of sugar at the second d^ree, turn over 
the fruit which you cover with it, and cork the decanters 
well when perfectly cold. Keep in a dark, cool, and dry 
place. 

Do the same with strawberries and other like fruit 

Fruit Jellies — With Apples or Quinces. — ^Peel, core, 
and cut in small pieces two quarts of good apples or 
quinces, lay them in a stewpan with a clove well pounded, 
and the juice of half a lemon ; cover with water, set on a 
moderate fire, and boil slowly till well cooked. Turn into 
a jelly-bag, or a thick towel under which you place a 
vessel to receive the juice, and when it is all out, put it in 
a stewpan with three-quarters of a pound of sugar to 
every pound of juice ; boil to a jelly. 

As soon as done put it iu pots or jars, let cool, cut a 
piece of white paper the size of the inside of the pot, dip 
it in brandy, put it over the jelly, cover the pot well, and 
place in a dry, cool closet, but not too cold. What re- 
mains in the bag may be used to make a compote. Watch 
the process carefrilly, skimmer in hand, to skim off the 
scum, and stir now and then, lest it should bum. 

With Apricots, Feaches^ Flums, etc, — ^After Laving 
taken the stones out, cut them in four pieces, and proceed 
as for apple-jelly above in every other particular. 

With Blackberries^ Currants, Grapes, JRaspherries, or 
cthir like Berries, — ^Put the well-ripened berries in a coarse 
towel and sqneeze all the juice out of them, which you 



AWXET. DIBHE8. 407 

put into a stewpan with as many pounds of loaf-sugar 
as there are of juice, and finish as directed for apple-jelly. 
A. little rum or essence of rose, or any other, according to 
taste, may be added just before taking from the fire. 

Punch. — ^Put a sfdtspoonful of black tea in a crockery 
pot, with one clove, a Uttle cinnamon, and the rind of a 
lemon cut in pieces ; pour on the whole half a pint of boil- 
ing water; let it remain thus five minutes, and strain. 
Put a bottle of rum or brandy in a crockery vessel, with 
twelve ounces of loaf-sugar, set the rum or brandy on fire, 
and let bum till it stops. Then mix tea and rum together, 
and it is ready for use. It is drunk cold or warm, ac- 
cording to taste. ' When wanted warm, if made previous- 
ly, set it on a moderate fire, in a tin or crockery kettle. 

It keeps very well if carefully bottled and corked 
when cold. 

Another way to make it is to mix tlie rum or brandy 
with the tea without burning it. It is warmed, used, and 
kept like the above. The quantity of water may be re- 
duced or augmented, according to taste, and so also the 
sugar. 

Another. — Grate the rind of a lemon and of two 
oranges on a piece of sugar, the yellow part only, and put 
it in a bowl with cold water to dissolve it ; then add two 
gills of pine-apple syrup, essence of vanilla, a pint of claret 
wine, a pint of Catawba, Sauteme, or Rhine wine, a pint 
of Champagne, and a gill of brandy ; sweeten to taste ; 
strain, put on ice for some time, and serve. 

Another. — ^Put a pound of sugar in a bowl with a gill 
of water to dissolve it; then add the juice of three 
oranges, a little rind grated, a bottle of Champagne and 
one of Catawba or Sauteme wine ; strain, place on ice for 
some time, and serve cold. 



408 BWEET DI8HB8. 

B^muin PuneL — ^Make iced lemon with one quart of 
juice, same of synip as directed, then mix with it the juice 
of four oranges, some lemon and orange rind grated, and 
about three gills of rum (or according to taste) ; also, if 
liked, the preparation used for iced fruit. Then put the 
mixture in the freezer, stir whOe freezing, and serv^e. It 
must not be frozen hard, as it is better when served rather 
liquid and frothy. It may be made with any other liquor, 
if preferred. 

Punch is served either after the entries or after th« 
rdevis of fish, according to taste. 



PASTRY. 



Of all the branches of the science and art of cooking, 
pastry, if not the most difficult, requires the greatest care. 
An inferior piece of meat makes an inferior dish, but still 
it can be eaten without danger : but inferior pastry can 
hardly be eaten ; or, if eaten, it is indigestible. We will 
recommend our readers to be very careful about propor- 
tions; it would not make a great differetice for some 
kinds, but for others, putting too much or too little of one 
or more things would certainly result in failure. It is 
very important to have good materials. New flour is very 
inferior for pastry ; it must have been ground for at least 
three months. Always keep it in bags, and in a dry and 
well-ventilated place. Sift before using it. ITse fresh 
eggs, good butter, and good pulverized sugar. 

The most important of all is the oven, for, supposing 
that you have used good materials, have mixed them well, 
if not properly baked, every thing is lost, materials and 
labor. Supposing that you have a good oven, there is 
still a difficulty — ^and if the last, not the least — ^the degree 
of heat. Some require a quick oven, as puff-paste, chousfj 
etc ; others a warm one, and others a slow oven, as me- 
nnpues, biscuits, etc By putting the hand in the oven 
you can tell if it is properly heiitedy but it requires ex* 

18 



ilO PA8TBT. 

pericnce, and eren practitionen are often mistaken ; there* 
fore, the eanest way is to have a thermometer in the oven. 
It may be placed in the oven of every stove or range ; it 
is only necessary to bore a hole on the top of the range 
or stove, reaching the oven, and have a thermometer with 
the bulb inclosed in a brass sheath, perforated, long 
enough to peach the oven, and of the size of the hole 
bored — ^the glass tube being above the top of the range. 

Pastes. — There are several kinds of paste. Puff-paste 
is tbe most important ; it can be made very rich, rich, and 
less so ; and several hundred different cakes can be mado 
with it Small cakes are called petiis fours. 

The next in importance is the pAts-a-^haux ; then the 
paste for meat-pies, sometimes called pAte brisie. 

Puff-paste requires care, but is easily made; p&te^ 
ehoux must be well worked. 

Puff-fpasU, — To make good puff-paste, good flour and 
butter, free from salt or sour milk, are indispensable. 
It must be made in a cool place. Take half a pound of 
good butter and knead it well in a bowl of cold water ; if 
fresh and not salt, the kneading will take the sour milk 
out of it; if salty, it will remove the salt^ then put it in 
another bowl of cold water and leave it till it is perfectly 
firm, and then use. When the butter is ready, put half a 
pound of flour on the paste-board or marble, make a hole 
in it, in which you put a pinch of salt, and cold water 
enough to make a rather stiff dough. It requires, about 
half a pint of water, knead well, make a kind of ball witb 
the dough, and put it on a comer of your marble or parte* 
board. Take the butter from the water and knead it on 
the board, to press all the water out of it Give it the 
shape of a large sausage ; dredge the board slightly with 
flour, roll the butter over only once, as it must take verv 



FASTBT. 411 

ittle of it, dredge both ends of the piece of butter with 
flour also, then by putting one end on the board and press- 
ing on the other end with your hands, you will flatten it 
of a rather round shape, and till of about half an inch in 
thiclcness. Put it thus on the comer of the board also. 
Imniediately after having prepared the butter, take th« 
dough and roll it down, of a round form also, and till 
large enough to envelop the butter in it easily. Be- 
tn ember that during the whole operation of folding and 
rolling the paste down, you must dust the marble or paste? 
board with flour, very slightly and often ; do the same on 
the top of the paste. It is done in order to prevent the 
paste from adhering to the board or to the rolling-pin. It 
must be dusted slightly, so that the paste cannot absorb 
much of it, as it would make it tough. Have a slab of 
marble or slate ; it is much easier than wood, and cooler. 
When the dough is spread, place the butter right on 
the middle of it Turn one side of the dough over the 
butter, covering it a little more than half way ; do the same 
with the opposite side, the dough lapping over that of the 
first side turned; do the same with the side toward you, 
and also with the side opposite. Dough stretching easily 
when pulled, and contracting easily when let loose after 
having pulled it, you have now still four comers of the 
dough to bring over the butter and in the same way as 
above, and by doing which, you give to the whole a some- 
what round form, and also have the butter perfectly 
enveloped in the dough. Place the rolling-pin on the mid- 
dle of the paste, horizontally, and press gently on it so as 
to make a furrow ; do the same from place to place, on the 
whole surface, making fiLrrows about an inch apart. Re- 
peat the process again, this time placing the rolling-pin 
right on the top of each elevated line ; and again, repeat 



il2 PAgTBT. 

it a third time, also placing the pin on each elevated line. 
Now do exactly the same contrariwise. Then, roll the 
paste down, gently, evenly, to a thickness of about one 
fourth of an inch, and of a rectangular shape. Fold it in 
three by turning over one-third of its length toward the 
other end, and thus covering another third of it ; fold or 
turn over the remaining third, so as to cover the first third 
turned over. Roll it down again of about the same 
thickness as above, but without making furrows in it ; 
give it also the same rectangular shape, taking care to 
make the length of what was the width, i. e. extending it 
the longer way in an opposite direction to that of the 
first time, so that the ends will be what the sides were. 
Fold in three as before, put it on a plate and set in a re- 
frigerator for from ten to twenty minutes. Take hold of 
tt again, roll down as above, fold in the same way also, 
and put away for ten minutes. You roll down and fold 
from four to six times, not counting the time you envelop 
the butter in the dough. In cold weather, and when 
the butter is firm, fold and roll only four times ; but in 
rather warm weather, fold and roll six times. If it is too 
warm, it is of no use to try with butter. 

Puff-paste may be made without stopping; that is, 
without putting it away in a cool place for some time ; 
but it is better to let it rest ; it is lighter and rises better. 
When finished, it can be used immediately ; but it is bet- 
ter also to put it in a plate or dish, cover it with a towel, 
and put it in a refrigerator for from twelve to twenty-four 
hours. Although it must be kept in a cool place, do not 
put it near enough to the ice to freeze. It may be kept 
thus for two or three days. 

Puff-paste with Beef^Su^L — Take half a pound of 
fresh beef suet, the nearest the kidney the best ; break it 



PABTBT. 413 

m small pieces vith the Lands, at the same lime remoying 
the thin skin and fibres as much as possible ; put it in a 
bowl of cold water and knead well till it is rather soft ; 
take it off, mash and braise it well on the paste-board with 
a rolling-pin; knead it again like batter; roll it in flour 
like butter also, and proceed as aboye for the rest, and with 
the same proportion, weight for weight of floor and beef* 
suet, but it requires more salt. Beef-suet being more firm 
than butter, puff-paste can be made with it during sum- 
mer, but it must be eaten immediately, being yer j inferior 
after a while. 

The proportion of butter and flour may be yaried. 
Weight for weight makes the real puff-paste, and yery 
rich. If less butter is used it will not rise as much, but is 
excellent neyertheless, and is more handy to make different 
cakes, such as short-cakes with frait. Therefore puff-paste 
may be made with the following proportions : to one pound 
of flour, use fourteen, twelye, ten, eight, or eyen four ounces 
of butter or suet. Another way is to mix one or two eggs 
in the flour, water, and salt before rolling it down. When 
eggs are used, it requires less water. Enyelop the butter 
in it in the same way. 

Allumettes. — Gut strips of puff-paste of any length, 
about three inches wide and about one-fifth of an inch in 
thickness ; mix well together, and for about three or four 
minutes, one ounce of sugar and about half the white of 
an egg; spread this mixture oyer the strips of paste, so 
as to haye a rather thin coat of it; then cut the paste 
across, so as to make small strips about one inch broad 
and three inches long. Bake in an oyen at about 400 
deg. Fahr. 

Feuillettis. — Roll puff-paste down to a thickness of 
from one-eighth to one-half of an inch in thickness ; cut 



114 PASIBT. 

it in pieces of any size and shape, according to fimey 
with a knife or with a paste-cutter; glaze the top onl^ 
with egg, and hake in an oven at aboat 450 deg. Fahr. 

Feuillettes h la Condi. — ^BoU and cat the paste exactly 
as for the above ; ' then, instead of baking it, fry it in hot 
fat {see Fbtihg) ; torn into a colander when fried, dast 
with sugar, and serre as warm as pdssible. 

Pommees. — ^Line the bottom of a bakepan with pufl^ 
paste, about one-eighth of an inch in thickness; spread 
stewed apples over it of a thickness of one-quarter of an 
inch ; cover these with another thickness of puff-paste ; 
prick the cover all over with the point of a knife, and bake 
in an oven at about 400 deg. Fahr. When baked, cut it 
in square pieces, dust with sugar, and serve hot or cold, 
according to taste. 

Porte-manteauQc — Cut strips of puff-paste of any length, 
about three inches broad, and one-eighth of an inch iii 
thickness ; spread on the middle of the strips, and length- 
wise, some frangipane, or stewed apples, or any kind of 
sweetmeats, of the size of the finger. Then turn one side 
of the paste over the frangipane or sweetmeats, glaze the 
border with egg (we mean by " the border," about half an 
inch in width, measuring from the edge) ; then turn the 
other side over it so that the glazing will cause the two 
pastes to stick together. Thus it will be only a 
little over an inch broad and about half an inch thick. 
Cut the strips across in small pieces about two inches long, 
glaze the top with egg, and then bake in an oven at 400 
deg. Fahr. 

Tartelettes. — Boll some puff-paste down to a thick* 
oess of about one-sixteenth of an inch ; cut it, with a paste- 
cutter, of the size of small tin moulds, and place the pieces 
in the moulds ; put about a teaspoonfiil of frangipane m 



PASTBY. 41S: 

attidh] place two nairow Btripa of paste across each, which 
fitrips yon cat with a tmckle ; bake in an oven at about 
380 deg. Fahr. 

Tarteiettes («wec<).— Proceed as for the above in every 
particular,' except that you use any kind of sweetmeats or 
jelly instead of frangipane. 

Cake Pithiviers.'^RoW some puff-paste down to a 
thickness of about one-eighth of an inch; cut it ronnd 
and place on a baking-pan ; if the pan be square or rec- 
tangular, cut a round piece that will go in easily ; cut a 
strip of paste about one inch broad, glaze with egg tba 
border of the paste in the pan, place the strip all aronnd, 
and then glaze it also, fill the mid<fle with fhe following 
mixture : pound four ounces of sweet almonds and mix 
them well with half a pound of sugar, two ounces of but- 
ter, four yolks of eggs, essence to flavor, and four maca- 
roons chopped. Cut another piece of pu^aste round, 
and of the same size as the other ; dust it slightly with flour, 
fold it gently in four; tiie piece then will have two straight 
sides and a circular one. With a sharp knife make three 
cuts in each of the two straight sidea through the four 
thicknesses of the paste, and about half an inch in length. 
Make another cut through the paste also, representing half 
of the figure 8, right in the middle of the piece of paste, 
commenciug half an inch firom the border of the circular 
side and in the middle of it^ and going toward the point, 
so that when the paste is open there are sixteen cuts in it. 
Place the paste still folded on the paste and Toixture in 
the pan, the circular side on the border and the point 
right in the middle ; open it gently, and the whole will be 
covered. Glaze with agg, and put in an oven at from 430 
tc 460 deg. Fahr. The same cake may be filled with a 
frangipane, and prepared as the above for the rest. 



416 PASTBT. 

Rissoles {alio coiled FourrSs). — Cat round pieces of 
pnff-paste about three inches in diameter; wet the edge 
with water, put a tcaspoonfdl of compote or any kind of 
sweetmeat on one side of it, then fold the paste in two, so 
as to cover tne sweetmeat; pinch the paste around to cause 
it to adhere, in order to envelop the sweetmeat ; yon have 
then a cake of a semicircular shape. Glasse with egg, 
bake in a quick oven, dust with sugar, and serve. 

Gaktte du Gymnase, — ^Make puff-paste with half a 
pound of butter to a pound of flour, and when done as 
directed, knead it. Then roll it down to the thickness 
of about one-fourth of an inch, cut it in strips of any 
length and about an inch and a half wide, glaze with eggy 
bake in a quick oven, about 420 deg. Fahr. The two 
ends of the strips may be brought together and joined, 
forming a crown. The same palette is made with trim 
mings of puff-paste, kneaded and rolled as above. 

Ihnekonnettes. — ^These are made with the same puff« 
paste as the galette above ; then cut it in round pieces, 
place them on small moulds, fill them with any kind of 
sweetmeats and frangipane, with almonds, half of each ; 
bake, dust with sugar, and serve. Instead of frangipane, 
spread raisins over the sweetmeats, or ahnonds, peanuts, 
hazel-nuts, etc., all cut in small strips, lengthwise ; you make 
then an infinite number of different small cakes. 

Fans, — ^Make some puff-paste with equal weight of 
flour and butter, fold and roll it down six times, and put 
in a cold place. Leave it of a thickness of about one- 
quarter of an inch ; cut it with a sharp knife in pieces of 
a rectangular shape, about four inches long and two broad, 
which cut again in two, across and from one comer to the 
other, so that you make two pieces of a right-angled tri- 
angle shape. Place the pieces on their sides in a bake- 



PASTRY. 417 

pan, on tbeir sides, far apart, and bake in a very quick 
oven. When done, dust with sugar, and serve. 

Vol^u-vent and b<yuchSe8 for the day's use are baked 
early in the morning. They are warmed in a slow oven 
just before filling them. 

Vol-au-vent. — ^A vol-aU'Vent is made with puff-paste 
and filled with oysters, meat, eto., when baked ; that is, 
when the cake is baked and emptied, it is warmed in the 
oven, filled, and served warm. It is made of an oval or 
round shape. When made small it is generally of a round 
shape, but when made rather large it is generally of an 
oval shape. When the puff-paste is ready to be used, 
roll down to any thickness from one-quarter to three- 
quarters of an inch; cut it with a sharp-pointed knife 
of the size and shape you wish, then with the same 
knife cut what is called the cover, i. e., make a cut all 
around, about half an inch from the edge or border, and 
about one-third through the paste, leaving two-thirds of 
the thickness of the paste uncut. This operation is called 
marking out the cover. Glaze the top of the paste with 
egg, and bake it in a very quick oven, about 500 deg. 
Fahr. In glazing, be careful not to glaze the sides or 
allow any egg to run on the sides ; it would prevent the 
paste from rising. Some drawings may be made on the 
cover with the back of a knife, according to fancy : leaves, 
for instance, are very easily imitated; it is only necessary 
to run the knife on the paste, without cutting it. When 
in the oven, do not look at it for at least seven or eight 
minutes, for in opening the door of the oven it might 
cause the paste to fall, and even after that time open and 
shut the door quickly ; take off when properly baked. 
When the oven is hot enough it takes about twelve min« 
atea, and even less time when the vol^tUHvent is small. 
18* 



118 

Take from the oven when baked, and immediately ran the 
point of the knife all aroond and in the same place as 
joxL did before being baked, which place ia well marked. 
Thus joa cnt off the cover and remove it, then remove 
also all the unbaked paste that is inside of the tfolrau'-ventf 
so that jou have left what may be called a shell Keep it 
then till the oysters or meat are ready to pot in it About 
five minutes before the filling is ready, put the shell or 
baked paste in a slow oven to warm it^ turn the filling 
into it, enough to fill it entirely ; place the cover on the 
top, and s^rve warm. The unbaked paste removed from 
the inside is baked, and makes an excellent cake, though 
not a sightly one. 

Another, — Cut a piece of puff-paste the same as for 
the above one, that is, either round or oval, and of the 
size you wbh. Instead of marking a cover, glaze the bor- 
der with egg. It is understood here by '^ the border," a 
space about three-quarters of an inch broad and all around 
it, the space being measured from the edge toward the 
centre. Then cut a strip of puff-paste about three-quar- 
ters of an inch broad, long enoi^h to cover the place or 
space glazed, which strip you put all around the first paste, 
<ind you then have a border. The place between the two 
pastes boiog glazed, they will adhere in baking. Then 
also glaze the upper side of the border carefully with 
egg. With a knife or fork, prick the paste, inside of the 
border only, in ten, fifteen, or twenty places, according to 
the size of the vol-athvent^ and in order to prevent that 
part from rising as much as it would if not pricked. 
Bake in the same oven as the above — ^a very quick one. 

A vol-au^ent thus made is deeper than the first one^ 
hariDg two thicknesses of paste. Generally there is little 
or no paste (unbaked) to remove ; having pricked the oen 



Iret, it prevents it from rising and bakes it evenly, bat if 
there is any,. remove it A cover m^iy be made by catting 
a piece of puff-paste of the size of the ^fd'-au-^fent and 
baking it separately. It may be decorated with .the back 
of the knife as the above one, and made convex on the top 
by baking it on a piece of tin* It is warmed, filled, and 
served the same as the above. 

A vol-athvent is filled with the fdio wing: 

With Oysters.' — ^The quantity is according to the size 
of the vol<iu-^enL Blanch one quart of oysters. Pat 
two ounces of butter in a saucepan, set it on the fire, and 
when melted add a tablespoonful of flour ; stir, and when 
turning rather yellow add also about a pint of milk, and 
the liquor from' the 'oysters; stir, and as soon as it turns 
rather thick put the oysters in, taking care to have them 
free from pieces of the sbelL Give one boil, add salt to 
taste, two yolks of eggs, stir again, turn into the warm 
paste, place the cover on, and serve warm. 

With {lObster.'-^TTepsae the lobster as for bauchees^ 
fill the shell with it, and serve warm. 

With Cod'Jish, — ^Prepare fresh cod-fish h la Bechamel^ 
fill the vol^iti^vent or shell with it, and serve warm. 

With TwrhoL — Proceed as for cod-fish in every par- 
ticuiar. 

With ^«b.«<^FilI the vd-au-vent with eels, oyster 
sauce, or in pouUtte^ and serve warm. 

With Chickeu. — ^F^ with a chicken or part of a 
chicken in frie(us4e or sautS. 

With Livers and Comhs of ChicAeik — ^Prepare combs 
and livers of chicken ia/rieassiey the same as a chicken, 
fill the vol-au-pent with them. Serve hot 

With Smeibreads,'--^Qk the sweetbreads as directed, 
and fill the vcl-au-vent with them. Serve warm. 



iSO PASIBT. 

With Veal.—Fm the vol-au^vent with real in Modi-' 
quHUf in raffovt^ or in hourgeciKj and senre. It is gen- 
eraUj filled with what has been left the day previons, as it 
requires very little for a vol-av-vent 

With Brains, — ^It may be filled with brains of cali^ 
pig, sheep, or veal ; prepared in pouUttty or stewed. 

With i2a(6»^— 111] it with part of a rabbit satUL 

It may also be filled with any other meat or fishj ac- 
cording to taste, and being cooked previously. 

With Fruits. — ^Fill the vcl-aurvent with any kind of 
stewed froit, jelly, sweetmeats, etc It may be only 
filled, or the frait may be dressed in pyramid inside of it. 

BouchSes, — BouchSeSj or petites bouehies, as they are 
sometimes called, are small, ronnd vol-au^entf served 
warm. They are also called battchSes de dames and j)eHie9 
bouehies. Roll pnff-paste down to a thickness of aboat 
one-quarter of an inch, cut it with a paste-cutter of any 
size, mark the cover, and bake in an oven at about 450® 
Fahr. A good size is about three inches in diameter. 
When cut, take another paste-cutter abbut two inches in 
diameter, place it on the piece of paste ; press on it just 
enough to mark the place where it was, but not enough 
to cut the paste, remove it and then the cover is marked ; 
that is, you have a circle on the top of the paste, half an 
inch from the edge all around. Glaze with egg and bake. 
Make one for each person. Immediately on taking them 
from the oven, cut off the cover with a sharp-pointed 
knife. That is easily done ; it is only necessary to follow 
the mark made with the paste-cutter, which is just as 
visible as before baking. Remove the cover and then 
carefully take out some unbaked paste inside of the 
bauehee, fill with lobster prepared as directed below, put 
the cover en, and serve as warm as possible. 



FASTBT. 421 

The FilUng, — Cnt some flesb of boiled lobster in dice. 
Put two onnces of butter in a saucepan and set it on tbe 
fire ; when melted, add a tablespoonfol of flour, stir for 
about one minute, and add also broth (tbe quantity must 
be according to the number of bauchees, but we will give 
here the quantity necessary for five or six bouchees)^ about 
three gills, also salt, pepper, then the cut lobster; stir 
now and then for five or six minutes, and use. 

0/ Oysters. — ^Prepare, fill and serve exactly as the 
above, except that you fill with oysters prepared as for 
vol-aii-ventj instead of filling with lobster. 

Of Cod-fish. — ^Fill the bouchies with cod-fish, prepared 
h la Bichamel, and serve warm. 

Of Eels. — Have some eels prepared either in poulette 

or oyster-sauce, fill the btmchees, and serve warm. 

Of Turbot. — ^It is filled with turbot h la crhne or h la 
Bechamel. 

It may also be filled with any kind of fishj prepared 
h la BSchamel, It la crkne^ in white sauce, oysterfttuce, etc. 

Of Truffles. — Cut the white flesh of a chicken in dice, 
prepare it as a chicken sauti, using truffles but no mush- 
rooms, fill the bouchees with it and serve warm. 

Of Puree of Chicken^ or Bouchies de Barnes. — ^It is 
filled with some jpurie of chicken, and served as warm as 
possible. 

Do the same with a purie of game. 

Of Bobolink. — ^Prepare and clean twelve bobolinks as 
directed for birds, put a teaspoonfol of truffles, cut in 
small dice, in each, bird, for stuffing ; sew the incision, and 
bake or roast the birds. Put each bird in a bouchiSy and 
9erve warm. A more delicate dish cannot be made. 

The same may be done with any kind of small bird. 

BouchSes are generally served on a napkin and on a 
Jish, in pyramid. 



i22 PASXBT. 

I^ie h ehom, — ^W^h four ounces of floor, to wbich 
add half a teaspoonfal of sugar. Put two gills of cold 
water in a tin saubepan with two on^nces of batter, and set 
it on the fire, stir a little with a wooden spoon to melt 
the butter before the water boils. At the first boiling of 
the water, throw into it the four ounces of flour and stir 
Tery flist with the spoon, holding the pan &8t with the 
left hand. As soon as the whole is thoroughly mixed, 
take flrom the fire, but continue stirring for about fifteen 
or twenty seconds. It takes hardly half a minute from 
the time the flour is dropped in the pan to that when 
taken from the fire. The quicker it is done, the better. 
When properly done, nothing at all sticks to the pan, and 
by touching it with the finger it feels as soft as velyet, and 
loes not adhere to it at all. Let it stand two or thiee 
minutes, then mit well with it, by means of a spoon, one 
egg ; then another, and so on ; in all four. It takes some 
time and work to mix the eggs, especially to mix the first 
one, the paste being rather stiff. They are added one at 
a time, in order to mix them better. If the eggs are 
small, add half of one or one more. To use only half a 
one, it is necessary to beat it first Let the paste stand 
half an hour, stir again a little, and use^ If it is left 
standing for some time and is found rather dry, add a 
little eggj which mix, and then use. 

Beignets Soufflis — (also tailed Pets de I^onne), — ^Make 
some pdte h chotix ; take a small tablespoonfol of it^ 
holding the spoon with the left hand, and with the fore- 
finger of the right cause the paste to fiill in hot fat on the 
fire (see Fbting), turn oyer and over again till fried, then 
turn into a colander, dust with sugar, and serre hot. In 
frying, the paste will swell four or fiye times its size, and 
by dropping it carefully and as nearly of a round diape as 
possible, the cakes will be nearly round when doneu 



PA8TET. 423 

Vhotix or Cream Cakes, — ^Make some pdte a choux ; 
haye a battered bakepaii, and drop the . paste upon it in 
the aame way a$ you drop the heignets above ; glaze with 
egg, and bake in an oven at abont 360*^ Fahr. When 
baked and cold, make a ent on one side, abont two-thirds 
through, the cut to be horizontal, a little above the middle, 
then, by raising the top a little, fill the cake, which is hol- 
low, with one of the following creams : Hfhipped, Chantillyj 
caite, frangijpane^ or Ugkre; dust with sugar, and serve. 

The same, with AlmonSs, — ^Blanch sweet almonds and 
cut them in small strips, lengthwise ; then, when the choux 
are in the bakepan and glazed with egg, spread the al- 
monds all over, bake, fill, and serve as the above. 

Saint JTbnore.— 'Make some pdte ct choux. Then put 
four tablespoonfuls of flour on the ipaste-board with two 
of sugar, one egg, one ounce of butter, salt,' and a pinch 
of cinnamon; mix and knead the whole well; roll the 
paste down to a thickness of about one quarter of an inch 
and place it in a bakepan. Put a dessert-plate upside 
down on the paste, and cut it all around the plate with a 
knife ; remove what is cut off and also the plate^ Spread 
some pdte h choux, about a teaspoonful, ail over the paste 
left in the bakepan, about one-sixteenth of an inch in 
thickness ; put some of it also in the pastry^bag, and by 
squeezing it out, make a border with it about the size of 
the finger ; prick the middle of the paste in about a dozen 
placed with a fork and inside of the border; ^aze the 
border with egg, aiid then bake in an ov^ at about 400^ 
Fahr. While the above is baking, make very smaU ehoux 
(about the size of a macaroon), and bake them also. When 
both are baked, and while they are cooking, make some 
creme Ughrej fill the inside of the cake with it, so as to 
«mitate a sugar-loaf or mound, about four inches in 



424 PAgTBT. 

height, smooth it or Bcallop it with a knife. Fat two 
tablespoonfalfl of sugar and two of water in a sancepan, set 
it on the fire, toss the pan occasionally to boil evenly, and 
till it becomes like symp. Do not stir too much, else it 
will turn white arid somewhat like molassesHsandy. It 
is reduced enough when, by dipping (not stirring) a little 
stick in it and dipping it again immediately in cold 
water, the symp-like liquor that has adhered to it breaks 
easily and is very transparent It must be as transparent 
as glass. As soon as reduced thus, take from the fire and 
use. Dip the top of each small chou in it, holding the 
chou with a small knife stuck in it ; place a piece of candy 
(generally, sugar-plums of various colors are used) on the 
top of each chou ; place them apart and around the creme 
Ughre^ and upon the border of the cake, with one a little 
larger than the others on the top of it ; serve cold. This 
cake is as good as it is sightly. 

Eelaira, — JSclairstiTe also csMed petits pains orprofite^ 
rollea au chocolat 

Eclairs au Chocolat — ^Make some pdte h choux as 
directed above, and put it in the pastry-bag with tube No. 
I at the end of it. Force it out of the bag into a baking- 
pan greased with butter. By closing and holding up the 
larger end of the bag and by pressing it downward, it will 
come out of the tube in a rope-like shape and of the size 
of the tube. Draw the bag toward you while pressing, 
and stop when you have spread a length of about four 
inches. Repeat this operation till the baking-pan is full or 
till the paste is all out Leave a space of about two inches 
between each cake, as they swell in baking. Bake in an 
oven at about 870 degrees. When baked and cold, slit 
one side about half through, open gently and fill each cake 
with the following cream, and then close it. Cream : put 



PA8TBT. 425 

ji a block-tin saucepan three tablespoonfiils of sngar, two 
of flour, four yolks of eggs, and mix well with a wooden 
spoon. Add a pint of milk, little by little, and mixing the 
while; set on the fire, stir continually till it becomes 
rather thick, and take off. Have one ounce of chocolate 
melted on a slow fire in half a gill of milk, and mix it with 
the rest, and use. Put one ounce of chocolate in a tin 
saucepan with a teaspoonful of water, and set on a slow- 
fire ; when melted, mix with it two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
stir for a while ; that is, till it is just thick enough to 
spread it over the cakes, and not liquid enough to run 
down the sides. A thickness of about one-sixteenth of 
an inch is sufficient The cakes may either be dipped in 
the chocolate or the chocolate may be spread over them 
with a knife. Serve cold. 

Edaira au CafS.^^lt is made exactly like the above, 
except that you mix with the cream three tablespoonfuls 
of strong coffee, instead of chocolate and milk. 

JSclairs au ThL — ^It is made like the preceding one, 
with the exception that strong tea is used instead of strong 
coffee. 

Eclairs h la Vanille. — ^Proceed as for the above, but 
mix a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla in the cream instead 
of tea. 

Eclairs h V Essence, — ^The meaning of Sclairs h Fessenci 
18, that a few drops of any kind of essence are mixed witl 
the cream instead of chocolate and milk, and prepared and 
served like the others. 

Eclairs aux Fraises. — Instead of filling the cakes with 
cream, fill them with strawberry-jelly, and for the rest 
proceed as for iclairs au chocolat. 

Eclairs aux Graseilles, — ^Made .Ike the above, but filled 
with currant-jelly. 



136 FA0TST* 

Do the same with apple, hUuMenry^ cherry^ ^v^/'^. 
peachy pear, plum, quince, raepbeny jelly, etc 

Petite Paine h la Beine.>-^Edaire ixe so called when 
filled witli marmalade of peaches in which sweet almonds 
chopped fine have heen mixed previonslj. 

Petite Paine h la Boee. — like the above, and by add- 
ing a few drops of essence of roses to the marmalade. 

Petite Paine h VEeeence. — ^Like the above, with any 
kind of essence : pirik, violet, geramum, etc. 

Bieeuite in Boxee. — ^Make some square boxes with 
sheets of white paper; fill them abont two-thirds fall 
with the same mixture as for lady's fingers, dnst with 
sugfu*, and bake in a slow oven ; serve cold. 

With Almonde. — ^Mix well together with a wooden 
spoon four yolks of eggs with four ounces of sugar (pul- 
verized), add three ounces of flour and mix well again. 
Beat the four whites to a stiff fr6th, and then have some- 
body to turn the mixture into them while you finish beat- 
ing, and then mix the whole gently butwelL It must not 
be stirred too much. Have two ounces of bitter ahnonds 
well pounded, with a teaspoonful of sugar, and mix them 
with the rest Butter small moulds, turn the mixture into 
them, filling about two-thirds full, glaze with egg^ dust 
with sugar, and bake in an oven at about 300 degrees Fahr. ; 
serve cold. 

With Chocolate, — Make some biscuits like the above, 
omittiDg the almonds, and flavoring them with a few drops 
of essence of vanilla. When cold, glaze them with choco- 
late, the same as described for iclaire, and serve. 

With Besence, — ^Make biscuits with almonds or with- 
out, as the above ones, and flavor them with any kind of 
essence, or with orange and lemon rind grated. 

Glazed. — ^When the biscuits are baked, glaze them 



PA8TS7. 427 

with icing, and senro cold. These are sometimes called 
hiaeuits h la royaJU. 

Of i2A«t9i».— -Mix well in a bowl six yolks of eggs 
with six ounces of sugar, with a wooden spoon. Add 
and mix with the above five otmees of fiour and lemon- 
rind grated; beat four whites of eggs to a stiff froth, 
and mix them also with the rest Butter small moulds, 
turn the mixture into them, and bake in a slow oven, 
about 800 degrees Fahr. These are often made of the 
shape of lady's fingers. They are excellent eaten with 
wine. 

With Filberts. — ^Put ten or twelve ounces of filberts 
or peanuts in a mortar with a few drops of orange-flower 
water and about half the white of an egg ; when reduced to 
a paste, mix well with it four ounces of sifted flour, eight 
ounces of fine, white sugar, the yolks of two eggs well 
beaten, and the whites of four eggs whisked to a froth ; 
when the whole is pr(^rly mixed, put it into a well-but- 
tered mould, which place in a moderately-heated oven ; 
watch it carefully, take out when cooked, which is easily 
known by the color it assumes. 

Biscuits with hazel-nuts, peach, or other kernels, may 
be made in the same way ; that is, using them instead of 
filberts. 

Lady's Fingers, — ^Mix weU together with a wooden 
spoon four yolks of eggs and four ounces of pulverized 
sugar, then add three ounces of flour and mix well again. 
Beat four whites of eggs to a ^tiff froth ; have somebody 
to turn two tablespoonfnis of the mixture into the whites 
as soon as beaten enough, and which you mix with the 
egg-beater, then turn the rest of the mixture in, mixing 
gently with the wooden spoon. This must be done rather 
quickly, to prevent the whole from turning liquid. Put 



428 PABTBT« 

the mixture in the pastry-bag with tin tabe No. 1 at the 
end of it^ squeeze it oat in sticks abont fonr inches long into 
a baking^pan slightly buttered and dusted with flour, or on 
a piece of paper placed in the bottom of the pan ; then 
dust them with sugar, and bake in a rather slow oven. 
They must not change in the oyen, that is, they must not 
spread or swell, showing that the oven is too hot or too 
slow, or that the mixture has not been properly prepared. 
They must be like small sticks, round on the upper side 
and flat underneath. They are sometimes called hiaeuits 
h la cuiller. They are used to make a Charlotte Eusse, or 
eaten with wine. 

Cakes. — Almond, — Blanch, skin, and pound well one 
ounce of sweet almonds and the same of bitter ones, 
which you mix with eight ounces of pulverized sugar, six 
of flour, two eggs, a tablespoonfiil of brandy or rum, and 
a pinch of sugar. When thoroughly mixed, add five 
yolks of eggs, mix and stir for five minutes, then add also 
and mix half a pound of melted butter. Turn the mix- 
ture in small moulds, well buttered, and bake in a rather 
slow oven. Some almonds cut in small pieces may be 
spread over just before baking; or, when baked, some 
icing may be spread over. Serve cold. This is also called 
Nantais cake. Instead of almonds, use filberts, hazd-nuts, 
currants, peanuts, or raisins. 

i^ot(fr^.— This is made with pufl'-paste and cream, or 
puff-paste and different mixtures placed inside of it, such 
as Pithiviera cake and fruit-pies. 

Anchovy. — ^Knead four ounces of flour with two 
ounces of butter, a little salt» and a little water. Clean 
four anchovies and put them in vinegar for five minutes ; 
then cut them in small pieces, put them in a bowl, and 
cover them with 9weet-oU ; leave them thus ten minutea 



PASTBT. 429 

Boll the paste thin, then place a httle more than half of 
it on a tart-dish, raising it all around with the thamb and 
forefinger ; cover the paste with the anchovies, and these 
with the remainder of the paste, after having cut it in 
square pieces ; spread some of the oil in which were the 
anchovies on it, bake in a warm oven, baste now and 
then with a little of the oil, and serve warm. 

Apple. — Stew eight or ten apples and mash them 
through a sieve. Put them in a saucepan with about two 
ounces of butter and eight of sugar, set on the fire for 
five minutes, take off, let cool, and then mix with it five 
or six eggs, one after another. Turn the mixture into a 
buttered mould, which you place in a pan of boiling water, 
then boil slowly about half an hour, turn over a dish, and 
serve warm or cold. 

Hard. — ^Put half a pound of fiour on the paste-board 
and make a hole in the middle; put into it three 
ounces of pulverized sugar, three ounces of butter, 
two eggs, a pinch of cinnamon, a few drops of essence, 
and knead the whole well, dust the board with flour, 
roll the paste down to a thickness of about one-fourth 
of an inch, cut it in pieces with a paste-cutter, of 
any shape ; beat one egg with a teaspoonfiil of sugar and 
glaze the pieces with it; with a piece of wood draw 
leaves or flowers on each, and bake in an oven at about 
360 degrees Fahr. They are eaten cold at tea. 

Heavy or Gdteau de Plomh, — ^Proceed as above with 
one pound of flour, a pinch of salt, one ounce of sugar, 
four yolks of e^s, one pound of butter, half a pint of 
cream ; when rolled down as above, fold in two or four, and 
roll down again ; repeat the process four times. Then place 
it in a bakepan and pat in a hot oven. Serve cold at tea. 

Miianais, — ^Put one pound of flour on the paste-board 



(30 

mnd make a hole in tiie middle, in which 70a put half a 
pound of bntter, same of sogar, two eggs, a pinch of salt, 
and a qnarter of a gill of rum. Mix and knead to a 
rather stiff doagh with cold water. Spread it and roll it 
down to a thickness of abont one-eighth of an inch. 
Glaze it with eggf dost with sngar and bake in a rather 
quick oven. When cold, cut it in two, spread some eomr 
pote of peaches or of apricots on one half, pat the other 
half over it, cut in pieces according to fi&ncj, and scire. 

Mum Cakes. — ^These are made with sponge cake cat with 
a paste-cntter, some sweetmeats or jelly is placed on the 
middle, then it is dusted with pulrerized sngar, watered 
with ram, and then placed in the oyen for about two 
minutes. These cakes have several names, according to 
the kind of sweetmeat used. 

jS^avonn.— Put one pound of flour on the paste-board 
and make a hole in the middle; put into it four ounces of 
sugar, and make a hole again ; then put in the middle four 
eggs, twelve ounces of butter, one and a half gills of milk; 
mix and knead the whole well ; then mix again in the 
whole four ounces of leaven prepared as directed; butter 
a mould, dust it with sweet almonds chopped ; put the 
mixture in it; put in a warm place (about 18 degrees 
Fahr.) to rise, and bake in an oven at 430 degrees Fahr. 
It will take about two and a half hours to rise. The 
mould must not be filled, else it will run over in rising. 

Sauce for Savarm, — ^Put four ounces of sugar and 
half a pint of cold water in a block-tin saucepan, set it 
on the fire and boil till reduced about one-third ; then add 
from one-half to one gill of rum (according to taste), give 
one more boil, and turn over the cake. Baste the cake 
with the sauce till the whole is absorbed by it Serve 
warm or cold* 



PASTRY. 481 

Sponge Cake. — ^Mix well together in a bowl dx yolks 
df eggs with four onnces of sugar ; add four ounces of 
floar and mix again, add also a few drops of essence, then 
whisk six whites of eggs to a sti^T froth and mix them 
again with the rest. Batter a mould, put the mixture into 
it, not filling it more than two^thirds full, and bake in an 
oven at about 820 degrees. Sponge cake may be cut in 
pieces and used to make a Charlotte Russe^ instead of 
lady's fingers. 

Apple DumpUnge, — Quarter, peel, and core the apples, 
and cut them in pieces, then envelop them in pufi-paste 
with beef-suet, boil till thoroughly done, and serve warm 
with sugar, or with apple or wine sauce. It may also be 
served with sauce for puddings. 

Bttckwheat Cakes, — ^Make a kind of thin dough with 
tepid water, yeast, buckwheat flour, and a little sugar and 
sfdt, let rise, and fry with butter. Serve hot with sugar, 
or molasses, or butter. 

Cam CaJcee. — ^Mix well in a bowl two ^gs with two 
ounces of melted butter, a pint of corn-meal, salt and 
sugar to taste. WhOe mixing set milk on the fire, and as 
soen as it rises, turn it into the mixture, little by little, 
stirring and mixing the while, and till it makes a kind of 
thick dougL Butter well a shallow bakepan, put the 
mixture into it, and bake. 

(7rte/&r<.^!-Mix well together and work with a wooden 
spoon, in a bowl, one ^gg with two ounces of melted 
butter and half a pound of pulveri^^d sugar; then add 
salt, cinnamon, nutmeg, a few drops of essence, and one 
pound of flour, and mix again ; add also milk, little by 
little, stirring and mixing at the same time, enough to 
make a thick batter. Divide the mixture in parts and frj 
b hot fat (See Fbtino.) 



482 PABTBT. 

Dotf^Antfto.— Mix well together in a bowl four egg* 
with half a pound of sugar, add two or three ounces of 
melted butter and mix again, then mix with the whole, 
about one pound of flour and boiled milk enough to make 
a rather thick dough, season and mix well with the whole, 
nutmeg, cinnamon, and a few drops of essence. Cut in 
fancy pieces with a knife or paste-cutter, and fry in hot 
fat (See Fstiko.) Dust with sugar, and serve hot. 

Muffins, — ^Mix well together on the paste-board one 
pound of flour and three eggs, then add and mix again 
milk enough to make a thin dough, a little yeast and salt 
Put away to rise ; divide in parts and bake. 

Found Cake. — ^Take a large bowl and put in it one 
pound of melted butter and one pound of pulverized sugar, 
and mix the two thoroughly together with a wooden 
spoon ; then add and mix well also with them, three eggs 
previously beaten with a saltspoonful of nutmeg and cinna- 
mon, half of eacL When the eggs are mixed, add also 
half a pound of flour, mix well again; then add six 
well-beaten ^gs, and mix; then another half pound 
of flour, a few drops of essence of rose, half a gill of 
Sherry wine, a liquor^lass of brandy, four ounces of 
citron, and half a pound of comfited fruit, chopped fine. 
Beat and mix as well as possible. Butter a mould, dust 
it with fine bread-crumbs, turn the mixture into it, 
and bake in a warm but not quick oven. It takes about 
two and a half hours to bake. As soon as cold, serve it 
It may be glazed with sugar, or sugar and white of egg. 

Short Cake. — Gut puff-paste, made with a pound of 
flour and six or eight ounces of butter, in square or round 
pieces, bake ; when cold, spread sweetened strawberries 
on, then cover with another cake, spread strawberries 
again on it, etc. Stiawberry-jelly may be used. 



PASTRY. 438 

Plum, — ^Mix well in a vessel a pound of sugar witli a 
pound of butter, and then again with eight eggs, one at a 
time, also half a pound of raisins, half a pound of flour, 
a little rum, and a little yeast. Line a mould with but- 
tered paper, turn the mixture into it, not filling it more 
than two-thirds full, place it in a warm but not quick oren 
for nearly two hours, remove the mould, and serve hot or 
cold. 

Tea Cake. — ^Put half a pound of flour on the paste- 
board, and in the middle of it a pinch of salt, half an 
ounce of sugar, two eggs, four ounces of melted butter, 
and cold water enough to make a rather stiff paste. 
Knead well, roll down to about a quarter of an inch in 
thickness ; cut it in pieces with a knife or paste-cutter ; 
moisten the top with water by means of a brush, dust 
with sugar, and bake in an oven at about 370 degrees 
Fahr. Serve cold. 

ViennaU. — ^Make some biscuits in boxes, and when 
cold, cut off a little piece on the top, in the centre, which 
place you fill with peaches or apricots in compote; put 
two together ; serve cold. 

With Jelly. — Proceed as above in every particular, 
using curran*. or raspberry jelly instead of compote, 

MEAT-PIES. 

Pdtes de Viande. — ^Meat-pies are made in moulds 
without bottoms and which open in two, or are made of 
two pieces joined and fastened together with two pieces 
of wire. The size of the mould and that of the pie are 
according to taste. A pie may be made and filled with a 
reed-bird, or with a quail, or a partridge, or prairie-chicken, 
or with a dozen of them. We will give the receipt for one 
prairie-chicken. 

19 



A34 PA8TBY. 

PdU of Oame. — Bone a prairie-cbicken as directed foi 
birds, and cnt it in about balf a dozen slices or pieces. 
Grease tbe monld with butter and put it in a baking^pan. 
Put one pound of flour on the paste-board and make a 
hole in the middle ; place in it six ounces of butter, one 
egg, a pinch of salt, and about one gill and a half of cold 
water, and knead the whole well Roll it down to a thick- ] 

ness of about one-quarter of au inch, and of a rectangular 
shape; fold in two, and roll down again. Kepeat this 
fiom six to twenty times ; that is, till the paste is soft. 
The last time roll it down to a thickness of one-third of 
an inch, and give it as round a shape as possible. Dust 
the upper side slightly with flour, fold in two in this way : 
turn the side farthest from you on the other, so that the 
side of the paste nearest to you will be somewhat round, 
and the opposite one will be straight. By pulling with 
the hands the two ends of the straight side toward you, 
it will make it somewhat round also ; then, take hold of 
the paste exactly in the places where you were pulling ; 
put it in the mould with the side nearest to you on the 
top ; open it gently, and with the hands spread it so that 
the bottom and sides of the mould wiU be perfectly lined 
with it With a sharp knife cut the paste even with the top 
of the mould. Line the sides of the paste with thin slices 
of fat salt pork. Mix in a bowl one pound and a half of 
sausage-meat with two eggs, salt, pepper, a pinch of cin- i 

namon and one of nutmeg ; place a layer of this mixture ^ 

about half an inch thick on the bottom of the paste ; then 
a layer of thin slices of fat salt pork ; one of slices of 
prairie-chicken ; again a layer of sausage-meat, one of salt 
pork, etc., layer upon layer, till the mould is nearly full, 
finishing wilii a layer of sausage-meat, and giving to the 
top of the pAti a convex form, but leaving a space of 



PABTBT. 435 

about half an inch unfilled all around, so that the top of 
the pdti will be about one inch higher than the sides, and 
half an inch higher than the sides of the mould and paste. 
The cover of the pdte is made with the same paste as the 
bottom and sides, or with puff-paste. 

EoU the paste down to a thickness of about one-eighth 
of an inch. Glaze the sides of the paste in the mould 
with egg ; that is, the space (half an inch) left unfilled ; 
put the paste for the cover on the pdte; press it gently 
against the other paste with the fingers in order to cause 
the two pastes to adhere ; with a sharp knife cut off the 
paste even with the mould. Make a hole in the middle and 
on the top of the cover about one inch in diameter ; cu* 
five pieces of paste about three inches square, dust them 
slightly with flour ; place them one upon another on your 
left thumb, keeping it erect ; then with the right hand take 
hold of the pieces, bringing the edges together so that the 
top will form a ball ; with a sharp knife make two cuts 
across and through the five pieces ; form a kind of stem 
as if you were to imitate a mushroom with these pieces, 
and plant the stem in the hole; when baked it looks 
like a flower. Glaze the cover with e^ ; cut strips of 
paste in diflerent shapes with a knife or paste-cutter, place 
them on it according to fancy, and bake in an oven at 
about 390 degrees Fahr. The strips of paste may also be 
glazed with egg. It will take about two hours to bake. 
As soon as cold, cut the cover all around and remove it ; 
fill the empty places with meat or calfs-foot jelly and put 
it on the dish. Chop some of the same jelly, put some 
all around it and on the top ; cut some of it also in fancy 
shapes with a knife or paste-cutter ; place it all around 
the dish and on the top of the pdtS^ and serve. 

The cut following represents a plain pie ; that is, with- 



out sny decorution, and immediately after having ramofed 
th« mould. 



Another, or Mabbit-Pie. — Chop very fine and eepante- 
ly one pound of veal, one of beef, one of lean fresh pork, 
three of rabbit or bare, and three of fat fresh porlc. Mix 
ti)e whole well together and season with salt, pepper, cio- 
namoD, cloves, and nutmeg, al] grated or in powder. Line 
a monld with paste as directed above, put a layer of the 
mixtnre in the mould about one inch tbict, place on it 
slices of tnifSes, if bandy and liked ; then another layer, 
truffles, etc., till the mould ia full. If filled without traf- 
fics, it is not neeeBsarj to put layer after layer. Cover 
also as above, and bake in a moderately heated oven, about 
320 degrees Fahr. It tabes from five to six honra to 
bake. 

Anolker, or Prairie-chicken Pie. — Skin a prMrie-hen 
(or several) and bone It. It is not necessary in boning it 
for a pie to proceed as directed for boned turkey, bat 
merely to remove all the bones in the easiest and qtdckest 
manner ; yon cannot spoil the flesh, as it is to be chopped. 
Weigh the flesh when firee from bones and skin. Weigh 



FABTBY. 487 

as mucli of each of the following: ham, sa.t pork, and 
calf's liver. Grate the salt pork and chop the three others 
very fine, and then pound the whole. Season with salt, 
pepper, cloves and nutmeg, both grated, a pinch of cinna- 
mon and chopped parsley ; mix with the whole two or 
three eggs, one at a time, in order to mix better. Line a 
mould with paste as directed above ; Hue the paste with 
thin slices of salt pork, fill it with the mixture, and cover, 
bake, finish, and serve exactly the same as the preceding. 
For two prairie-hens it will require about three hours to 
bake. Slices of truffles may also be used ; they are mixed 
at the same time with the eggs and seasonings. 

With Cold Meat. — When the paste is placed in the 
mould as directed above, line it with thin slices of salt 
pork, then put a very thin layer of sausage-meat, prepared 
also as above, then fill with butcher's meat, poultry, and 
game, having previously removed all the bones, and cut 
the meat in strips ; the greater the variety, the better the 
pdiS, Put a little of each kind of meat used in a mortar, 
say from one ounce to a pound, with parsley, thyme, bay- 
leaf, salt and pepper ; pound the whole well and then mix 
with one egg^ half a gill of white wine, or a liquoi^glass 
of brandy, to every pound of meat. Fill the hoUow 
places with the mixture, to which you may add a little 
gravy or broth if it is not liquid enougL Place thin 
slices of salt pork on the top, cover with paste as described 
above, cook and serve as above also. 

Meat-pies, as seen above, are made with every kind of 
meat ; with one or several kinds at the same time, accord- 
ing to taste. 

Wines and liquors may be used, it is only a matter of 
taste. The cover may be placed with only a hole iu the 
centre, instead of decorating it. 



i88 FAfiTBY. 

Bj nsing in tarn butcher's meat, ponHry, and game^ 
an infinite number of different pdtis can easily be made. 

Terrines (Terreeny or Tureen), — A terrine differs from 
a meat-pie in this, that instead of nsing a tin or brass 
mould and lining it with paste, a terrine (French word for 
terreen) is nsed, and is only lined with thin slices of salt 
pork, and closed with its cover. It is filled, cooked, and 
served in the same way as a meat-pie. 

Timbah, — ^The name timhale is ^ven to a meat-pie 
when made in a straight tin mould, lined as a terrine, and 
covered with a tin cover. A terrine or timhale keeps 
longer in winter than the pie. 

Pains de Oibier {Pains of Game), — ^This means, loaves 
of game. It is a terrine made with any kind of game, 
of one or of several kinds, with the exception that birds 
are boned and filled {see Directions for Boning), before 
placing them in the terreen ; also, before covering the 
terreen, place a piece of battered paper all around, so as 
to have it as nearly air-tight as possible when covered. 
Bake as above, and as soon as out of the oven remove th« 
cover ; put a piece of tin, sheet-iron, or wood on the top, 
large enough to cover the meat, but not the border of the 
terreen. Place some weight on it in order to press the 
meat down, and leave thus over night. The weight and 
piece of tin are removed, the terreen is wiped clean,^ the 
cover placed on it, and it is then served, or served on a dish. 
It keeps very well in winter time, and many are imported 
from Europe, especially those made like the following : 

Another.-^Cnt four ounces of boiled beef-tongue and 
»ne pound of truffles in large dice. Put about two 
ounces of salt pork in a frying-pan on the fire, and when 
fried, add about six ounces of the flesh of prairie-hen, cut 
in pieces, four prairie-hens' and four chicken livers, eight in 



PASTBT. 439 

all ; stir, and when taming rather brown, add also chopped 
parsley, salt, and pepper; stir again for two or three 
minates, and take off. Fat in a mortar one pound of 
flesh of prairie-hen, baked and choj^ed ; one pound and 
a quarter of fsA salt pork, and about four ounces of panade. 
Pound the whole well and put it in a large bowL Then 
pound well also the six ounces of prairie-hen flesh and 
eight livers with twelve yolks of eggs and a wine-glass of 
Madeira wine, and put in the bowl also. Add to it the 
tongue and truffles, and mix the whole well, adding game- 
gravy, or mealrgravy if more handy, about a gill of it, 
season to taste with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and cloves, 
grated. Bay-leaf and thjmie, well pounded, may also be 
used, if liked. After being pounded, the whole may be 
mashed through a sieve, but it is really not necessary. 
Then place the mixture in one, two, or three terrines^ 
cook, and serve as above. 

Another.'^Take the flesh of six praiiie4iens when 
cooked, and pound it well Pound also eight livers, fried; 
four of prairie-hens and four of chickens ; put flesh and 
livers in a saucepan with gravy, set on a slow fire, and at 
soon as warm, add to it, litUe by little, and stirring con- 
tinually, about three-fourths of its volume of good butter. 
When all the butter is in, take from the fire, mix one 
pound of truffles cut in dice with it; put the mixture in 
one or more terreens ; cover, bake, and serve as above. 

Terrifies and pains are sometimes made with poultry, 
and in the same way as those of ganie. 

Fish-Pies, — These are made in the same way as meat- 
pies, using cooked fish instead of meat, but putting fish 
on^y inside of the paste. When done it is filled with 
cculis of fish instead of jelly. Serve as a meat-pie. The 
fish must be fi*ee irom bones. 



i40 PASTBT. 

IVuit-Pies. — ^Pies are made with paste and firuit oi 
vegetables. The undeivpaste may be made of trimmings 
of puff-paste, or of the paste hereafter described, but the 
top is always made of puff-paste. The paste on the top 
may coyer the fruit entirely, or it may be only strips run- 
ning across, according to taste and fimcy. The fruit ia 
used raw or cooked previously, according to kind ; if it 
requires longer cooking than the paste, or if it requires 
to be mixed or mashed, it must be cooked previously. 

Under-Paste. — ^Put one pound of flour on the paste- 
board with six ounces of butter in the middle of it ; also 
two ounces of sugar, two eggs, and cold water enough to 
make an ordinary paste, neither too stiff nor -too soft. 
Roll the paste down, to a thickness of one-eighth of an 
inch, spread it on a tin dish or bakepan, buttered slightly, 
raise the borders a little or place a strip of puff-paste aU 
around it ; put the fruit in the middle, then cover with a 
thin piece of puff-paste or place strips of it only over the 
fruit, and bake in a rather quick oven, about 390 degrees 
Fahr. The strips of paste are cut with a paste-cutter 
(caster-like) and placed across; one strip may also be 
placed all around. When trimmings of puff-paste are 
used for the under-paste, when placed on the tin or bake- 
pan, prick it in about a dozen places with a fork to pre- 
vent it from rising. To place a border around the paste, 
you have only to cut a strip of it about half an inch wide, 
wet the paste with water by means of a brush, that is, the 
edge or place where you are going to put it ; then take 
hold of the strip, place one end of it on the paste and 
nm it all around till you meet the end, cut it off and 
stick the two ends together by wettiog them also. When 
the border is placed, then put the fruit in the ndddle ; if 
the fruit \& not cooked, it must be mixed with sugar and 



PA8TEr. 44:1 

ossence, or cinnamon, or nutmeg, according to kind^ if 
cooked, that is, stewed, or in compote or in jelly, it is 
sweetened and flavored. 

The following are nsed to make pies : apples^ apricots^ 
cherries^ currants^ blackberries, cranberries, gooseberries, 
grapes, mulberries, oranges, peaches, pears, pine-apples, 
plums, quinces, raspberries, lemon, rhubarb, prunes, 
whortleberries, etc. It is better to stone the fruit before 
using it. Pies are decorated in the three following ways: 

1. When you use cooked fruit, put a thin layer of rice 
(prepared as for croquettes) on the paste, then a layer of 
stewed fruit; then the strips over, and bake. Two or 
three layeiis of each may be used. 

2. When baked, spread over the pie some syrup of 
apples, of pears, or syrup for compotes. 

3. Just before serving, spread some creme legere on 
the top, tastefully and fancifully, by means of a paper 
funnel, or with the pastry-bag. 

Tarts and TarteUttes.^^Th^a are small pies. Instead 
of using a tin dish or a bakepan, you use small tin moulds, 
such as for madeleines, and proceed exactly as for pies. 

Mince-Pie. — Every thing used to make a mince-pie is 
chopped fine, and the spices are used in powder. Pre- 
pare paste as directed for meat-pies, and make it either 
with or without mould. Proportions : to three pounds 
of beef add six pounds of beef-suet, one pound of cur- 
rants, one of prunes, one of raisins, and one of apples, the 
rind of two lemons, two ounces of citron, and one pound of 
any kind of comfited fruit; nutmeg, mace, cinnamon, 
cloves, and sugar to taste ; also wine or brandy, or both, 
to taste. Bake in a moderately heated oven. The fruits 
may be used candied or fresh, the apples fresh or dried, it 
is a matter of taste. Twenty kinds of fruits and meat 
19* 



i42 PA8TBT. 

may be used as well as tbree or four ; there are no nilet 
to make a mince-pie^ since its componnds are not used to 
be tasted at all separately, but as a whole. 

Pot-Pie. — ^Make a paste with one pound of ilonr, two 
onnces of butter, two ounces of beefnguet (the latter pre- 
pared as directed for puff-paste), a little salt and water, 
enough to make a rather stiff paste ; roll it down to a 
thickness of about a quarter of an inch and fold it in three 
and roll down again ; repeat the process half a dozen 
times, the last time leaving it rolled down and of the 
thickness above mentioned. line the sides of a pot with 
it, lay slices or strips of salt pork on the bottom of the 
pot, then fill it with strips of meat, any and every kind 
(slices of potatoes may be added, if liked) ; season with 
salt, pepper, nutmeg, and cinnamon ; fill with water or 
broth ; cover with some of the same paste ; cover the 
pan and boil gently till done. When the cover of paste 
is laid on, make a hole in the centre to let the steam out, 
and to fill up with water or broth if it boils away. Eun 
a sharp-pointed knife or a skewer through, to ascertain 
when done. Serve warm. Proceed as above either for 
butcher's meat, chicken, and other domestic fowls, or 
game. 

Puddings. — ^Paddings are made of several materials 
and in a hundred different ways. Some are cooked by 
boiling, others are baked, and some are both boiled and 
baked. Puddings for inhabitants of cities ought to 
be made as light as possible. For persons working out- 
side and at manual labor, it does not matter, because their 
food passes through the system in a short time. It is 
very well known that the poorer class of Americans eat 
too much pudding and pie. Many do it for economy, 
others for convenience. The former are mistaken, and tho 



PASTBT. 443 

atter are blamable. Paddings and pies cost more in tlie 
end than meat properly and carefdlly prepared. We do 
uot mean to do away with them entirely, bat we advise 
e^ery one to do with paddings as with every thing else, 
^' use, bat do not abase." ^' Pies, cakes, and sweetmeats, 
are anirersaily known to be poisoning to children, and 
the mothers who give them are conscioos that they are 
purchasing the momentary smile of satisfaction at the risk 
of after-sickness, and perhaps of incurable disease.^' — 
PsTKR Parley. 

The aboTe needs no commentary ; we only recom- 
mend it. to the consideration of young mothers. . 

For Gonvenience, — ^We have taken the trouble to put 
questions about it to over three hundred mothers, wives 
of mechanics or of employes at a comparatively smaM 
salary, and we are sorry to say, that more than ninety per 
cent, gave as about the same answer — they make and 
cook cakes in t)ne day, enough to feed the whole famOy 
for three days, to save the trouble of cooking every day. 
We cannot see where the trouble can be for a good wife and 
mother to prepare her husband and children's dinner. 

Pudding-eating is an English custom ; but, before fol- 
lowing a custom of another country, people ought to con- 
sider if that custom or fashion (whatever it is) has not 
been introduced into that country by necessity, which is 
the case of pudding-eating in England and in some parts 
of Holland. 

In England, where the fog is nearly perpetual, the 
stomach requires to be filled with something heavy, some- 
thing that will stay there till the next meal, and veiy often 
longer than that 

It is well known that in England farm hands, or other 
persons working in the open air, eat six times a day, and 



114 FASntT. 

hjtve pudding at least tliree times; they drink ]i<mt» 
brewed beer, wbich is very heaTy, and very rich also. Let 
any one here, in this pare, clear atmosphere, eat tax times 
a day, have pndding three times, with a pint of home- 
brewed beer every time, and see how he will feel in the 
erening. Wo b^ all, who may donbt oor observations, 
to try the experiment 

Pastry in general, oo matter how light it may be made, 
lies heavier on the stomach ttiau any other food, and is 
very difficult of digestion. There are thoosanda of per- 
sona that have never had any indigestion bat of pastry. 
Cliildren like pastiy very much ; this is eauly nndeistood ; 
as their yonng stomachs digest very rapidly, they crave 
food oftener than grown persons. Pastry being easier 
to have at any time tban any thing elM, it is given to 
them; and from habit in yonth arises the liMng wben 
grown np. The stomach, being accustomed to it from in- 
foncy, may digest it better, bat it is always at the ex- 
peuse of tjie whole system ; the stomach mnat work hard, 
too hard in digesting it; whence come dyspepsia, weak* 
ness, and finally consumption, or debiUty, or any other 
ricicnesB of the same kind. 

The cat below reprewntv-a pndding (any kind), niada 



PAfiTBY. 445 

ji a mould, scalloped, and hollow in the middle ; any kind 
of monld may be used for puddings. 

Bread-Puddmg, — Soak balf a ten-cent loaf in milk for 
about an hour, and squeeze it with tbe hands ; place the 
bread in a bowl and mix well with it a gill of milk, three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, one ounce of citron, cut rather fine, 
four ounces of raisins, four ounces of melted butter, four 
yolks of eggs. Then beat the four whites of the e^s to 
a stiff froth and mix them with the rest Grease a mould 
well with butter, dust it with bread-crumbs, turn the mix- 
ture into it, and bake. The mould must not be more than 
about two-thirds fuU. About 400 degrees Fahr. is the 
proper heat for a bread-pudding. It takes about forty 
minutes to bake. Serve with a sauce for pudding, hot or 
cold, according to taste. 

Cahiriet Pudding, — A cabioet pudding is made in any 
kind of a mould and of any size, with sponge-cake or 
lady's fingers. Butter a mould well ; if the butter is 
too firm, warm it so as to grease the mould better. Slice 
some citron and cut it in lozenges or of any other shape, 
according to fancy, and place tastefully on the bottom of 
the mould ; place some raisins all around also. It is not 
necessary to cover the bottom with tbem, but have some 
here and there, imitating flowers, stars, etc. Then pcA* 
over them a layer of sponge-cake, cut in strips of any 
length and about half an inch thick ; on this layer place 
some citron, some comfited (candied) fruit of one or sev- 
eral kinds, and all cut in dice, also some raisins ; then an- 
other layer of cake, some more fruit, and so on, till the 
mould is full. After having placed the citron and raisins 
on the bottom, it is not necessary to put the rest in with 
care or order, but merely fill the mould with them and so 
that they are all mixed up. Set about a pint of milk on 



146 PASTBT. 

the fire and take it ofi' as booq as it rises. Mix well in a 
bowl three ounces of sugar with three yolks of e^s, then 
turn the milk into the bowl, little by little, stirring and 
mixing the while, and pour the mixture oyer the cake, 
firuit, etc., into the mould. The above quantities of milk, 
sugar, and eggs are for a middling^sized pudding, and it 
will be very easy to make more or less, according to the 
size of the pudding. The mixture must be poured over in 
sprinkling, and it must nearly cover the whole within 
about hsdf an inch. It must not be poured too slowly, 
for, the cake absorbing the liquor pretty fast, you would 
have too much of it if you were filling as directed above ; 
we mean filling till the mould is nearly full. Place the 
mould in a pan of cold water so that it is about one-third 
covered by it, set on the fire, and as soon as it boils, place 
the whole, pan and mould, in an oven at about 380 de- 
grees Fahr., and bake. For a middling-sized one it takes 
about one hour. When done, place a dish over the mould, 
turn upside down, remove the mould, and serve with a 
sauce for puddings. 

With VermkelH. — ^Blanch four ounces of vermicelli, 
drain and drop it in cold water and drain again. While 
the vermicelli is cooking, put about a quart of milk in a 
saucepan on the fire with two ounces of sug^ar and a piece 
of lemon-rind, stir now and then to dissolve the sugar, and 
as soon as the milk rises, take it from the fire, remove the 
lemon, then turn the vermicelli into it, put back on the 
fire, add a tablespoonful of butter, stir contiDually, and 
when the veimicelli is well cooked, take off, mix well 
with the whole four eggs and sugar to taste. Turn the 
mixture into a well-buttered mould, place it in a pan of 
boiling water, boil slowly for ten minutes, then place as it 
Is, pan and mould, in a moderately-heated oven to finish 



PASTET. 447 

the cooking. It will take from fifteen to twenty minateft. 
Proceed as above with macaroni, tajpioca, etc. 

Plum-Pudding. — ^Break with the hands, in small 
pieces, abont twelve ounces of the soft part of good and 
well-baked bread, not too fresh, but not stale, and grate it. 
Clean twelve ounces of raisins and currants, half of each. 

« 

Out in small dice four ounces of citron and four ounces of 
candied orange-rind. Chop fine the rind of a lemon. 
Butter a towel slightly and dust it with fiour, slightly also. 
Take twelve ounces of good firesh beef-suet, remove the 
fibres and skin as well as possible, and chop it rather fine 
with three or four qinnces of flour, and which put in a 
large bowL Mix with it seven eggs and half a pound of 
sugar. It is believed by many that brown sugar is better 
than white, but it is only a belief, if not a prejudice. Add 
and mix again the bread, the raisins, and currants, the 
citron, and orange-rind. Having the whole thoroughly 
mixed, add half a gill of French brandy or Jamaica rum, 
a little salt, the lemon-rind, half a gill of cream or a little 
milk, and a little grated cinnamon. Place the mixture on 
the towel, and tie it as fast as possible, giving it a round 
shape. Drop the towel in boiling water, and boil for from 
four to five hours. Some boil a plum-pudding as long as 
seven hours. It may also be boiled in a mould for that 
purpose, but it is easier in a towel and quite as good. 
When taken from the water, remove the towel, cut a little 
piece of the padding off, to make it stand better on the 
dish. The place cut off is generally where the towel was 
tied, being the less smooth. The cut following shows a 
plum-pudding boiled in a towel 

Serve with a sauce for puddings. The sauce may be 
served in a boat, or spread all over the pudding. When 
served the second day, or cold for supper, it is cut in 



148 FASTBT. 

■lices ; some Jamaica ram is poured »Ter it, then set on 
fire, basting as long as it onrns, and serTe. It is generally 
barnt on the table, bat the ram ma; be ponred over in the 
kitehen. The cnt below represeats a whole one with rant 
aroond it and on fire, , 



BUeottet. — Put half a pound of flour on the pasto- 
board and make a hole in the middle of it ; put in the hole 
four ounces of sngar, one ounce of batter, three yolks of 
eggs, and a few drops of essence to flavor the cakes. Mis 
and knead the whole well with the hand. When like 
dongb, roll it under jour hands and bring it to a rope-like 
form of about three-quarters of an inch in diameter ; cut 
it in pieces about two inches long ; roll again with the 
hand so as to make a ball of each ; then roU agdn with 
both hands so as to give each piece a ronnd, elongated, 
olive shape ; that is, smaller at each end than at the mid- 
dle. Put them in a baking-pan, greased with butter; 
glaze each piece well with egg and a little sugar beaten to- 
gether, tben, with a sharp knife, which yon dip in fioar, 
make a cut on the top and into each cake, longthwiae, 
about three-quarters through, and bake in an oven at 860 
degrees Fahr. Serve cold. It is an excellent cake for tea 
as well as for dessert. 

iTith Almond*. — Add to the above mixture one oonoe 
of pounded almonds. 

With FUbertt or Sasel-nuts. — Add to the miztan 



PABTBT. 449 

(oibiaeotles, one ounce of filberts or tazel^uts, ponnded 

Brioche. — ^Mii together on the paate-board, one ponnd 
of floor, six e^s, one ponnd of butter, four onnces of 
leaven prepared as directed, and tepid water enongli to 
make a rather soft dongh, then beat well The longer it 
b beat«n the better, and the lighter the brioche will bo. 
By beatang wa mean — ^take hold of the dough with the 
right Iwnd, rase it find then throw it with force ou the 
board and in tbe same place where it was ; repeat that till 
it comes off your hand without any of the paste sticking 
to it Put the mixture in a tin vessel, set it in a warm 
place (abnut 78" Fahr.) for about two bonrs to rise, and 
then pat immediately on ice to cool. When cold, put it 
back on the paste-board, cnt off about one-fourth of it. 
&[ake a kind of crown with the lai^r piece, but not a very 
lai^ one; let the hole iu the middle be abont three 
inches iu diameter. Then give tbe other piece a rope- 
like shape, about three^uarters of an inch in diameter ; 
place it over the crown, giving it the shape of a star, and 
bake in an oven at 430°. Serve warm, without sance. 



Baha. — Mix together and beat as for a brioche, one 
pound of flour, ten e^^ one pound and a qaarter of but 



iSO PASTBT. 

ter, four ounces of ndsins, four otmoes of citron, foui 
ounces of leaven, about half a pound of different kinds of 
fruits, preserved in syrup or candied, all cut fine ; put to 
rise, let cool, shape, bake and serve as a brioche. 

A haha may be baked in a mould ; the cut on the pre- 
\dous page represents one. 

Oroquiffnolles, — ^Put in a bowl four ounces of flour, a 
teaspoonful of sugar, a pinch of salt, half a pound of 
butter, four whites of eggs, and a few drops of essence ; 
mix the whole well so as to make a very stiff paste. Then 
put the mixture on the paste-board, and roll it in a rope* 
like form about half an inch in diameter ; then cut it in 
pieces about half an inch long, glaze with yolk of egg, 
dust with sagar, and bake in a warm but not quick oven. 
Serve cold at tea. 

Galette, — ^Enead together half a pound of flour, six 
ounces of butter, two eggs, and a pinch of salt ; roll it 
down to a thickness of a quarter of an inch, put in a bake- 
pan in the oven, and when nearly done, take off; mix well 
together one egg with a gill of cream and an ounce of 
butter, while the galette is in the oven, spread the mixture 
over it, put back in the oven, finish the cooking, and serve 
cold at tea. 

GSnoises.^Biii in a large bowl six ounces of flour, 
eight of sugar, two eggs, a liquor-glass of brandy or rum, 
and a few drops of essence ; mix and stir the whole well 
for three minutes, then add two more eggs, stir and mix 
one minute longer, add again four eggs and continue stir- 
ring one minute longer. Melt half a pound of butter in 
another bowl, and mix with it about two tablespoonfiila 
of the mixture ; when, turn into the other bowl and mix 
the whole well together. Butter a bakepan, spread the 
mixture in it, and bake in a rather slow oven (about 300^ 



PASTET. 461 

Fabr.). When the top is well baked, tarn it oyer and 
finish it. When cold, cnt the whole in strips about two 
inches long, then again across so as to make pieces of a 
lozengenshape, and serve as it is or with a sauce far pud- 
dings. 

The samey with Almonds, — Pound well four or six 
ounces of sweet almonds, place them in the bowl with the 
rest, and then mix, bake, and serve as the above one. 

Do the same with hitter almonds, hazel-nuts, peanuts, 
filberts, and raisins ; flavor with any kind of essence. 

With Chocolate,-^'When. the cake is cut in pieces, 
glaze it as directed for Sclair au chocolat. 

With Sweetmeats, — When the cake is cut in pieces, 
with a sharp-pointed knife, cut off a part of each piece, 
on the top and right in the centre, so as to make a small 
hole, which yon fill with any kind of sweetmeat or with 
any cream, and then serve. When thus served, they are 
called under several names. 

Jfacaroeww.— Throw into boiling water for five minutes 
ten ounces of sweet almonds, and two ounces of bitter 
ones ; skin them well ; put in a mortar, and pound them 
to a paste, adding a few drops of the white of eggs during 
the process. Grind well also a pound of white sugar, 
with the quarter of a rind of lemon well grated ; then mix 
well together almonds, sugar, and the whites of two eggs. 
Make balls of any size with it ; put the balls on a piece of 
paper, beat the yolk of an ibgg with half a gill of water, 
and glaze the top of the balls with it by means of a brush ; 
put them in a slow oven ; it will take about fifteen minutes 
to cook them. 

Maxxiroons with ChocokOe, — Melt on a slow fire and in 
8 tin pan three ounces of chocolate without sugmr (known 
as Baker's chocolate) ; then work it to a thick paste with 



i52 PASTBT. 

one pound of pnlrerized sugar, and three whites of eggs. 
Boll the mixtare down to a thickness of aboat one-qaarter 
of an inch ; cut it in small round pieces with a paste-cnt- 
ter, either plain or scalloped; batter a pan slightly and 
dost it with flour and sugar, half of each, place the pieces 
of paste or mixture in and bake in a hot but not quick 
©yen. Serve cold. 

Madeleines. — Mix well together in a bowl three 
ounces of sugar, three of flour, and two eggs, then again 
one ounce of melted butter and a few drops of essence to 
flavor. Butter slightly small tin moulds, dust them 
slightly also with flour and sugar, half of each, turn the 
mixture in, fiUing the moulds only two-thirds full, and 
bake in an oven at about 340^. Serve cold. 

The samey with Almonds. — Chop rather fine some sweet 
almonds, and when the mixture is in the moulds as de- 
scribed above, spread the almonds over them ; bake, and 
serve as above. 

Do the same with hazel-nuts. filbertSj peanuts^ or 
raisins. 

Meringues or Kisses. — ^Put half a pound of pulverized 
sugar in a plate, beat six whites of eggs to a stiff froth as 
directed, then have somebody to sprinkle the half pound 
of sugar into the eggs, and while you are still beating, 
which must be done in two seconds; stop beating and 
mix gently with a spoon, not by stirring but by turn- 
ing the whole upside down several times. If it is stirred 
too much, it may turn too liquid. Put the mixture 
in the pastry-bag, with tin tube No. 2 at the end of it ; 
spread the mixture on paper in a baking-par, in oblong 
sakes about three inches long ; dust them with pulverized 
sugar, and put in an oven at from 220^ to 230° Fahr. It 
requires some time to dry them, about one hour. As soon 



PASTBT. 458 

as taken from the oven, place one in your left hand, the 
top downward ; press gently on the under side which is 
np, with the first finger of the right hand, so as to make 
a hollow ; put in that hollow twice as much cream as is 
necessary to fill it ; place another cake prepared alike over 
the cream; so that the two will be united and kept 
together by the cream ; do the same with the rest ; place 
them tastefully on a dish; dust them with sugar, and 
serve. They are generally filled with whipped cream^ but 
may be filled with creme legere or creme cuite. They may 
also be filled with crhne Chantilly, 

Swiss Meringue. — Instead of squeezing the mixture 
out and spreading it in oblong cakes, make a crown of it, 
then another and another, four in all, dust and bake in 
the same way; place them on a dish, one above the other, 
and fill the middle of the dish with cream as above. 
Serve cold. The miicture may also be placed on paper by 
the spoonful, but they are not as sightly as by means of 
the pastry-bag. 

Zephyrs, — Proceed as for meringues as far as mixing 
the sugar with the whites of eggs, when mix also with 
both a few drops of cochineal Put the mixture in the 
pastry-bag, with tin tube No. 1 at the end of it. Squeeze 
the mixture out and spread it on paper in a baking-pan, 
in different shapes: dentilated, convoluted, overlapping, 
waved, etc., accordmg to fancy, about three inches and a 
half long. Bake in same oven as meringues, and serve 
when cold, as they are. 

Nougat — ^Throw a pound of sweet almonds into boiling 
water for five minutes ; skin them well, and when cool cut 
Uiem in four or five pieces lengthwise ; then melt a pound 
of fine white sugar with two spoonfuls of water, in a cop- 
per or crockery pan, and on a good fire, stirring all tho 



454 PA8TBT. 

time with a wooden spoon ; when well melted, put the 
almonds in ; keep Btirring abont five minutes longer, take 
from the fire, add a little of the rind of a lemon well 
grated, oil the mould, put it on the comer of the range in 
a warm but not too hot place ; put the almonds and sugar 
in the mould, and little by little take off when of a brown 
color, turn on a plate, remove the mould, and serve. 

Pancakes. — ^Make a thin paste with one pound of flour, 
four ^^, two tablespoonfuls of sweetroil, one of French 
brandy, a little salt^ the necessary quantity of lukewarm 
water and milk, about half of each; let it remain thus 
two or three hours at least ; then put about an ounce of 
lard| butter, or oil in a frying-pan, and set it on a brisk 
fire ; when hot, put some of the paste in it with a ladle, 
spread the paste so as to cover the bottom of the pan ; 
fry on both sides, place it on a. dish, dust it with fine 
white sugar on both sides, and serve warm. 

Buckwheat and other pancakes are made in the same 
way. 

TTo^*.— Make a thin paste with eight ounces of flour, 
dx ounces of pulverized sugar, two eggs, a few drops of es- 
sence to flavor, half a liquor-glass of brandy or rum, and 
milk. Warm and butter both sides of the mould, put some 
of the paste into it, close it gently, set it on the fire, turn 
over to heat both sides equally, dust them with sugrar 
when done, and serve either warm or cold. It takes hardly 
a minute for each with a good fire. 

BREAD. 

It is next to an impossibility to bake bread m a small 
oven ; half the time the bread is too much or not enough 
baked. In cities, where good baker's bread can be bought, 
it comes as cheap as it can be made at home, if not cheap'^r. 



PABTBT. 455 

uid BaTOs a great deal of time and labor. It is not diffi- 
cult to make good bread with good flonr. There are sev^- 
eral ways of making and of using yeast. Some are bettor 
than others ; but many, though differently manipulated, 
bring about the same results. The only difficulty is the 
baking of it. Bakers can almost always bake bread prop- 
erly, having large brick ovens. If they do not bake their 
bread enough, which is generally the case, it is not because 
they cannot, but because under-baked bread is heavier, 
and people, especially the poorer class, buy it in preference 
to the other ; judging by the weight, they think they have 
more of it for a certain sum of monev. TTnder-baked 
bread is difficult of digestion. (See Food.) 

The best bread is made with the best wheat-flour, all 
that can be said by anybody to the contrary notwithstand- 
ing. Rye, com, and barley bread are excellent^ and may be 
partaken of by those whose constitution, occupation, etc., 
allow it. In every thing, bread included, the people, or 
what may be called ^^ the million," are wiser than soirdi- 
mtnt philosophers; and if oat-meal or Indian-meal were 
better than wheat-flour, they would be dearer. To de- 
scribe or discuss the innumerable methods of making 
bread would require several volumes. We have perused 
carefully hundreds of them; they nearly all differ theo- 
retically, but practically, when practical (which is not 
always the case), they amount to about the same thing. 
We think that the only difficulty, if difficulty there be, is 
in the use of the yeast, the making of the same, and the 
baking. Chemical processes for rising will never equal 
the processes of nature and time. Many bakers do not 
use the yeast properly, their bread being sour or musty ; 
some sweeten their bread, to disguise an inferior quality of 
floor, or as an antidote to sourness or mustiness. 



456 PASTBY. 

Bread gets dry after a wbile, and is inferior in quality 
and taste. The lighter the bread the better, although 
many do not think so. The belief may come from the 
fact that the lighter bread is the more porous, and there- 
fore the quicker it evaporates and loses its taste. Warm 
bread, besides being injurious to the teeth, is difficult of 
digestion. When perfectly cold, let it stand in a dry place, 
neither cold nor warm, for one or two hours, and use. 
We give below the best methods of making bread — ^French 
bread, or rather good light bread, for we do not see that 
it is more French than Chinese or American, as long as it 
c«a be made everywhere with good flour ; it is certainly 
the best for inhabitants of a large city, and especially for 
those having a sedentary occupation. Let us apply the 
proverb to bread as well as to every thing else: "Feed 
me with food convenient for me^" — Bible. 

Mix well together one gill of good strong yeast with 
half a pound of flour, so that it makes a rather stiff paste. 
Knead so that you shape it like a ball Make two cuts 
with a knife on the top, across and about one-quarter of 
an inch deep ; then place the paste in a bowl of tepid 
water (milk-warm), the cuts upward. After it has been 
in the water for a few minutes it will float and swell ; let 
it float about two minutes, when take off and usew Put 
six ounces of flour on the paste-board, and make a hole 
in the middle ; put into it the yeast prepared as above, 
tepid water enough to make an ordinary dough, and salt 
to taste. Enead well, shape according to &ncy, put in a 
warm place (about 78 deg. Fahr.) to rise, and bake. It 
requires about six hours to rise. 1 

Another. — Wash and clean thoroughly half a pound 
of potatoes, and then steam them with the skins on. Mash 
them well with half a pint of flour, about half a pint of 



PASTBY. 457 

tepid water, and half an ounce of salt. When thoroughly 
mixed, put away in a warm place (about 78 deg. Fahr.) 
for one hour. Then add and mix with it half a pint of 
good yeast, and put away in the same place for about nine 
hours* It may take a little longer than nine hours or a 
little less, but it is very easy to know, and in this way : after 
a while it will rise slowly and gradually for some time, 
and then begin to fall ; as soon as it begins to fall, mix a 
y ttle tepid water with it and strain through a sieve ; throw 
away potato skins and eyes ; mix what is strained with 
two pounds of flour and tepid water enough to make an 
ordinary dough. Put it away again in the same place 
until it cracks on the top, which will take place in about 
an hour. Then put six pounds of flour on the paste-board, 
and make a hole in the middle ; put into it a little tepid 
water and the dough when cracked ; knead the whole well 
with water enough to make an ordinary dough, salt to 
taste. To knead it well, it is necessary to raise the dough 
or part of it, and then throw it back on the paste-board 
with force. The more the dough is kneaded, the better 
and lighter the bread. Then shape the loaves, let rise, 
and bake in a very quick oven. 

To shape, — Divide the dough, as soon as kneaded, m 
as many parts as you wish to make loaves ; then knead 
each part, one after another, so as to make a kind of ball ; 
then, by rolling and pulling it, give it an elongated, sau- 
sage-like shape. A pound loaf can be made a foot and a 
half long, as well as four inches ; it will only be narrower 
and thinner, and will have more crust. When the dough 
is thus elongated, take a round stick or a small rolling*pin, 
place it on the top of the dough, right on the middle, 
lengthwise, and then press on it and roll just a little, to 
and fro, so as to make a kind of furrow in the middle. 
20 



458 PASTBT. 

Have a towel wull dusted with flour, place the doagb on 
it upside down, that is, the furrowed ade under; let rise 
as ordinary bread ; turn it into a pan, but so that the fur- 
rowed side will be up (the side that was down in rising 
must be up in baking) ; dust the furrow well with rye* 
flour to prevent the paste from closing, so that the top of 
the loaf will be concave instead of convex when baked. 

Another. — Steam half a pound of potatoes and mash 
them well; then mix them immediately and while hot 
with about a pint of flour, a quart of water, and half a 
pint of good strong yeast Leave the mixture six hours 
in a rather warm place, then strain through a sieve, press- 
ing the potato-skins so as to squeeze all the liquid out of 
them. Immediately add to the strained mixture flour 
enough to make ordinary dough, which you knead a little, 
and let stand as it is from one to two hours and a hal^ 
according to temperature. Knead then with it about six 
pounds of flour, salt to taste, and tepid water to make or- 
dinary dough, and leave it thus two hours, then shape in 
the same way as the above ; put it to rise in the same way 
also (it will take from one to two hours^ according to 
temperature) ; dust with rye-flour, and bake. 

French bread may be shaped like other bread, round 
or square ; it is just as good. 

Bolls, or rather French rolls as they are generally called, 
are made, shaped, and baked in the same way. 

It is a mistake to call hread certain mixtures of flour, 
soda, and milk ; or flour, milk, and butter, etc ; it is no 
more bread than a mixture of carbonic acid, wkter, alco- 
hol, molasses, vitriol, etc., is wine. No one can give a 
name to such a mixture except chemists. 



BILLS OF FARE. 



IXnner-Time. — On accotuit of the varions occupations 
of members of the same family, this is often the first and 
only time of the day that sees them all assembled. It is the 
dinner that mostly supplies the waste that the system has 
undergone for twenty-four hours. Being taken after the 
day's work is oyer, it gi^es to the stomach time to digest 
(mind and stomach never working at the same time). {See 
Food, Eoonomt, Ooffeb, and Tba.) 

The dinner, being the most substantial meal of the day, 
requires more preparation than any other meal ; the bill 
of fare of it should, therefore, be made the day before, or 
at least early in the morning. It should always be made 
between the mistress or master of the house and the cook; 
written and hung in the kitchen, near the clock. The 
first thing to put down is what may be left from the pre- 
ceding day, and also what maybe in the larder; then 
what is wanted in butcher's meat or poultry, or both ; the 
fish or game, or both, and which, with vegetables, are ao- 
cording to the market. It is then one of the duties of the 
cook to make a list of what is wanted as accessories; such 
as flour, eggs, sugar, spices, etc. 



i60 BILLS OF FABE. 

Besides the above, it is also the daty of the cooIl to 
send the dishes to the table in their r^ular order ; for, if 
the whole dinner is sent at once, all the dishes have to 
be eaten at once also, else the last get cold and are un- 
palatable, or, by mixing them, they are rendered tasteless, 
as the flavo|r of one neutralizes (if it does not destroy) the 
taste of another. 

To make models of bills of fare is not difficult, but to 
follow them is nearly impossible ; hardly one in a hundred 
would suit any one. 

Bills of fare vary according to the season of the year, 
and therefore to the produce in the market 

We will try to give another, and we think a better 
way of making them to suit everybody, every purse, and 
at any time. 

A dinner, no matter how grand, is composed of three 
courses, and seven kinds of dishes. 

The first course comprises dishes of four kinds, viz. : 
potages, hors-cToeuvres, rekvis, and entries. 

The second course comprises dishes of two kinds, viz. : 
rots and entremets. 

The third course comprises dishes of one kind, the 
dessert 

The number of dishes of each kind is generally ao* 
cording to the number of guests. 

It may also be according to the importance of the oc- 
casion for which the dinner, is given ; to the honor the 
giver or givers wish to show the personage or personages 
invited ; to the ranount of money they are willing to spend, 
etc. 

The following table shows how many dishes of each 
kind are to be served at dinner to a certain number of 
persons : 



I 



BILLS or FABX. 



The above table sHowa the nainber of dishes, hnt more 
than one dish of the same kind can he eerred ; forisstaocc, 
four kinds of potages, relevh, etc., are served for forty ; 
hut two or four dishes of each kind can be serred. 

The size of the relevSa and rdU should be according to 
the number of gnests. 

It is just as easy to select dishes for a small fiimily- 
diuner as for a grand one ; two, three, four, or more dishes 
can be selected; for instance, yon select a pot^ge, an en- 
tree or rdt, or both, one vegetable or a sweet dish, or both ; 
and one or as many plates of dessert as yon please. 

Have a bouquet on the middle of the table, if possible, 
or at least a basket of fruit Flowers during dinner have 
the Bame effect as music after it; they soften the manners, 
and gently and swectiy gratify the senses. 

To simplify and render the making of bills of fare easy, 
we have divided the different dishes into seven parts, each 
part being in the order the dishes of which must be served, 
and representing the seven kinds of dishes composing a 
dinner. By this means you select the dish or dishes which 
suit you, and which you can procure in any or all of the 
seven, parts, and your bill of fare is made, and more to 
your liking than any steward on earth can do. 

Order of dishei. — 1, Potagea. 2, Hors-d'eeuvrtB. 
3. Releves: of fish, and then of meat. 4. £ntreh: bee^ 



462 BILL8 OF FABS. 

mutton, lamb, veal fish, poultry, and game last 5. JRdU : 
of meaty and then of fisL 0. Entremets : sdads of greens, 
vegetables, eggs, macaroni, sweet dishes, and cakes. 7. 
Dessert : cheese the first 

First jpartf or JPotages, — ^Any kind coming under the 
head of potages or soups. 

Second part^ or Hors-^oeuvres. — These are smaU 
dishes placed on the table as soon as the soup-dish is re* 
moved or even before, and which are removed just before 
serving the sweet dishes of the entremets. They are passed 
round after every dish, on account of being considered 
more as appetizers, as repairers of the natural waste of ani- 
mal life. Very little of them is partaken of at a time ; 
they are anchovies ; artkhoches^ raw ; picUed heets ; but- 
ter ; caviare ; eervelas ; raw cu€uml>ers ; Jigs ; every kind 
offish^ salted, smoked, pickled, or preserved in oil ; every 
kind of pickled fruit ; horseradish ; horseradish butter ; 
melons; broiled mushrooms; olives ; raw and pickled 
oysters ; steamed potatoes served with butter; radishes 
and butter; sardines; saudssons ; sausages^ salt and 
smoked, but not fresh ; salted and smoked tongue ; tunny , 
walnuts in salad. 

Third party or Belevis, — Beleves are composed of fish 
and large pieces of meat A fish served whole is always 
a reUvi ; in pieces, it is an entree. Pieces of beef^ mutton^ 
and porJcy roasted, are always served as relevSs, At a 
family dinner the relevi is almost always a fish. The 
other pieces of meat that are served as relevis are : bear^ 
buffalo, boiled and corned beef, leg and saddle of mutton, 
quarters of lamb, large pieces of veal ; also all vol-au-vent 
of meat and of fish, bouchees and fish-pies. 

Fourth party or Entrees, — ^These comprise every dish 
of meat^ except poultry and game, when roasted ; every 



BILLS OF FARE. 463 

dish of fish not served whole ; also p&tes de foies gras^ 
tour-krout, math, meat-pies, terrmes, pains of game and 
of poultry. The dishes of meat mentioned in l^e relevSs 
may be served as entrees at a family dinner. The order 
of the dishes is described above. 

Fifth party or Bdts. — Poultry, gam^e, and fi>sK At a 
fiimily dinner, lamb and veal are often served as roasted 
pieces, especially at seasons when there is no game, and 
poultry is scarce. 

Sixth party or Entremets. — ^The following are served as 
entremets: all salads of greens ; all dishes o{ vegetables, of 
omelets, except fonr, viz., with bacon, salt pork, ham, and 
kidneys. Also dishes of m^icaroni, of rice, eggs h la neige, 
all stoeet dtshes (sweet dishes are also served as dessert), and 
cakes ; such as baha, brioche, genoises, madeleines, savarin, 
and spongecake. 

Seventh part, or Dessert. — The dessert comprises ripe 
Jruit, sweet dishes (these are also served as entremets, ac- 
cording to taste), pastry (except meafrpies, terrines, and 
pains), salads of fruits, and cheese. The latter is always 
served the first {see Cheese). After cheese, there is no 
rule for serving the other plates of dessert ; it is according 
to each one's taste. 

ISineh is served after the entries or after the relevSs of 
fish, according to taste* 

Early Breakfast — We are of opinion that everybody 
ought to eat as little meat as possible, and drink no wine, 
beer, or any other liquor at an early breakfast, no matter 
what the sex or age may be, except when prescribed by 
the physician in case of sickness, debility, etc. The food 
may be selected from the following: bread and butter^ 
eggs, omelets, fried ^A, fried vegetables, sardines, axid fruity 
according to the season. 



4:64 BILLS OF FABB. 

As for meaty in case it should be eaten, it ought to b€ 
cold, such as fowl or veal, cooked the day before. 

Mujffins, and other cakes or pastes, senred warm, are 
Tcry bad for the stomach and teeth. 

The beverage ought to be either coffee, with milk, 
chocolate, cocoa, choca, or cold water, but do not by any 
means drink tea at breakfast ; it is too as^tringent. 

Although cold meat is not by far so injurious as warm 
meat for breakfast, it ought, nevertheless, to be as little 
partaken of as possible, and especially by the young. 

Late Breah/asty Lunchj Tea^ and early Supper. — ^At 
these meals the following dishea may be served : 

Every dish served as a hon-d^ceuvrej ccU/^s head and 
feet, bear hams^ head-cheese^ eggs cooked in any way, omelets^ 
mutton chops, veal cutlets, fried Jishj ripe jfruit^ boned 
birde, ham, cold meat of any kind, oysters, pdte defoiesgras^ 
salads of chicken, or any other birds, and of lobster, sand- 
wiches, sardineSf Med vegetables, sweet dishes, and pastry. 

Late Supper. — ^This being the last meal taken before 
retiring, persons should be careful about what they eat then, 
especially those who take no bodily exercise, or retire soon 
after it. Some are not aware that their rest depends 
nearly, if not entirely, on what they have eaten at supper. 
The lighter the food the better; such as fried ^A, sar- 
dines, lait de poule, bavaroise, well-ripened fruit, a cream^ a 
little iced fruit, fruitjelly, prunes, etc. 

The gastronomical or hygienic rule to be observed in 
eating, it will be seen, is therefore, after the soup and 
hors-d^csuvres, to commence with the heaviest or most sub- 
stantial dishes, and to finish with the lightest. The rule is 
just tae opposite for wines. Here we must commence with 
the lighte&t, and end with those which contain the most 
alcohol, and are consequently the heaviest. 



INDEX. 



Allumettes, 418. 
Almonds, 44. 
Anchovy, 144. 

butter. 09. 

CAke, 4S8. 

salad, 858. 
Anise, 16. 
Apples, an benrre, 878^ 

charlotte, 879. 

dumplings, 481 

flamoantes, 878. 

fried, 400. 

meringn^, 8791 

pie, 440. 

syrup, 880. 

In compote, or stowed, 3S5. 
" fritters, 879. 
"jelly, 4. 

pine-apple, 880. 

with nee, 874. 
" sweetmeats, 330. 
Apricots, 16. 

in compote, 885. 
" JeUy, m. 
'' salad, 862. 

iced, 897. 
Artichokes, 806. 

fried, 806. 

(Jerusalem), 807. 
Asparagus, 807. 

fried, 808. 

en petite pois, 807. 

in omelet, 808. 

with cream, 808. 
*' vinaigrette, SOB. 
** white sauce, 80a 
Aspic, S75. 



Baba,449. 
Bacon, 16. 
Bain-marie, 16. 
Bakepans, 17. 
Baking, 9. 

J,893. . 



20* 



Barley, 76. 

lemonade, 41 
sugar, 46. 
Bass, 18^ 185, 188. 
Batter, 80. 
Bavaroise, 45. 
Bay-leaf, 17. 
Beans (string), 808. 
au jus, 909. 
maftre d'hOtel, 800L 
in salad, 809, 860. 
with onions, 809. 
pickled, 868. 
(Lima), 809. 
au jus, 810. 
(diy), 810. 
maitre d'hOtel, 810. 
with ham, 811. 
** mutton, 811. 
" salt pork, 810. 
in pur^, 190. 
stewed, 811. 
Bear^meat, 277. 

ham, 277. 
Beef, 162. 

h la mode, 163. 
baked. 167. 
in daube, 164. 
roasted, 166. 
with garnitures, 166. 
decorated, 167. 
stewed, 164. 
fillet larded, 168. 

with mushrooms, 169. 
truffles, 169. 
potatoes, 169. 
tomatoes, 169. 
quenelles, 169. 
Madeira sauce, etc., 169 
en bellevue, 170. 
ribs, 170. 

with mushnxmis, etc., 171 
steaks, 171. 
broiled, 172 



it 

it 






It 



i66 



INDEX. 



M 
M 



«« 



Beef: 

Btetkfl with potatoes, ITL 

water-creee, etc., 1T8. 
maflhrooiiw, 1T8. 
trollies, ITS. 
Bsat^, 171. 
fltncy, 178. 
tenderlouL 168. 
low cats, 171. 
boiled or coULl74. 
hashed, 1T7. 
to croqaetteSjlTB. 
" miroton, 178. 
" salad, 177. 
an sratui, 178. 
wiu T^getablee, etc., ITS, 
oomed, 177. 

en DdleTne, 178. 
brain, 179. 
heart, 179. 
Udneys, 180. 
liver, 180. 
tail, 181. 
tongne, 178. 

(Fmolced), 188. 
with sances, 188. 
in hors-d^cenrre, 188. 
'' belleyne, 188. 
tripe, 181. 

brofled, 188. 
ponlette, 188. 
Btewed, 188. 
pickled, 188. 
Beets, 17. 
boiled, 17. 
picUed, 868. 
stewed. 818. 
in salad, 860. 
Beignets sonffl^ 4aSL 
Berries, iced, 896. 
presenred, 408. 
with milk, 401. 
'' liqnor,401. 
in salad, 868. 
Bichof;46. 
Bills ^ flue, 460. 
Birds, 378, 879. 

presenred, 46. 
Biscottes, 44a 
Biscnits, 486. 
almonds, 486. 
chocolate, 486. 
glazed. 486. 
with filberts, etc., ^7. 
▼anilla.4a6. 
of Rhams, 4Sn. 
Blackberries, 868. 
in compote, 886. 
" jeUy, 406. 
preserved. 408. 
BUu^-birds, 878. 
Black-flsh, 188. 136. 
Blane-maoge, 880. 



Blane-niaiuier, 8BL 
BUaich,806. 
Btanqnette, 806. 
Bloe-llsh, 188, 186. 
Bobolink, afre. 
Boiling, 9. 
Boned turkey, 860. 
Border of paste, 844. 

** rice, 878. 
Bonch6es, 480. 

of fish, 481. 

'*biid8,48i. 

** oysters, 481. 

** lobster, etc., 
Bonkttes, 117. 
Booqnet, 461. 
Bain.»4. 
Braising, 18. 
Bread7l64-46a 

cnimbs, 46. 

tuce.liz. 

padding, 446. 
Breakihst, 463. 
Brioche. 449. 
Broccoli, 81& 
Broiling: 10. 
Broth, 61-70. 
Brown-batter, 100, 
Boflktlo, 877. 

steaks, 877. 
Bnckwheat cakes, 481. 
Bunch of seasonings, ]& 
Bamt sofi^r, 47. 
Batter, 409. 

anchovy, 09. 

lobster, etc., 118, lift 

melted. 119. 

scented, 119. 
Battered paper, 18. 

Cabbage, 818. 

i la crdme, 818. 

with apples, 818. 
" bacon, 818. 

eamitare, il& 

in salad, 848. 

** soar-kroat, 816. 

stewed, 818. 

staffed. 814. 

pickled, 868. 

red, 814. 
Cabinet padding, 41B. 
CafS an bit, 61. 

noir, 61. 
Cake. 488. 

almond, 48a 

apple, 489. 

com, 481. 

cream, 488. 

carrant, 488. 

filbert, 48a 

foarr6, 48a 

haael-nat, etc., 48a 



i 

i 



INBEZ. 



467 



'i 



Orin: 

hard, 4S9. 

heavy, 429. 

Madeleine, 4SS. 

Milanais, 439. 

Nantaifl, 428. 

FlthiTiera, 415. 

plum, 433. 

ponnd, 4SSb, 

rice, 873. 

Saiot Honor^ 438. 

SaYarin, 480. 

short, 482. 

sponge, 431. 

tea,^8. 

Yiennois, 488. 

with jelly, 488. 
Ckirs bndn, 214. 

ears, 215. 

feet, 215. 
" jeny,58. 

head, 2ld, 217. 
en tortae, 218. 
soup. 86. 

heart, 216. 

kidneys, 219. 

lights, 220. 

liver, 221. 

plack, 222. 

sweetbreads, 223. 
in volwia-vent, 419. 

tail, 223. 

tongae, 223. 
Candied fruit, 403. 
Capon, 266. 
Caramel, 47. 
Cardoon, 816. 
Carp, 182, 185. 
Carrots, 816. 

B^hamel, 816. 

fines herbes, 817. 

glazed, 317. 

an jus, 817. 

pomette, 817. 

stewed, 817. 

with sugar, 818. 

in pur^e, 122. 

" soup, 77. 
Catsup, 18. 

mushroom, 827. 

tomato, 854. 
Cauliflowers, 818. 

Btehamel, 818. 

gratin, 818. 

white sauce, 819. 

fried, 819. 

stewed, 819. 

in salad, 820. 

with cream, etc., 319. 

piclded, 858. 
Caviare, 18. 
Celery, 820. 

fried, 820. 



Celery: 

in salad, 848« 849. 

** pur^e, 122. 
Cervelas, 19. 
Charlotte of fruit, 888. 

Fran^aise, 882. 

Polonaise. 882. 

Russe,881. 

Italienne, 882. 

h la Chantilly, 882. 

apple, 879. 
Chartreuse, 284. 
Cheese, 19. 

h la crdme, 888. 
Cherries in brandy, 408. 

compote, 888. 

pie, 440. 

glazed, 896. 

preserved, 402. 
Chervil, 19. 
Chestnuts, 860. 

candied, 405. 

glazed, 896. 

in compote, 887. 

" pnz^ 121. 
Chicoory, 820. 

in salad, 848. 

(wild), 848. 
Chicken, 288. 

to truss, etc., 288-2it. 

baked, 261. 

boUed, 241. 

boned, 242. 

broUed, 242. 

with sauce, 242, 248. 

croquettes, 243. 

fricasste, 244. 

suprdme, 248, 247. 

flnancidre, 246. 

fran9aise, etc., 246. 

Marengo, etc., 248. 

roasted, 249. 

with sauce, 250. 

** garniture, 260. 
decorated, 260, 26L 

eaut^ 261, 2^ 

with Champagne, 

stewed, 268. 

stuffed, 253, 254. 

in pie, 

" pur6e, 119. 

vol-au-vent, 419. 

cold, 254. 

In salad, 266. 

preserved, 4m» 

broth, 65. 
Choca,52. 
Choooiate, 61. 

iced, 896. 
Chouz, 423. 
Chowder, 169. 
dams, 169. 

baked, 161. 



:i 



168 



INDEX. 



duns : chowder, 150. 

soap, 92. 
Ck>cli]iieal, 19. 
Cocoa, 63. 
Cocoa-nut, 863. 
Cod-fish. laS. 

staffed, 181. 

(salt), 146, 146. 
Coffee, 47. 

iced, 89a 
Colander, 19. 
Cold weather, 33. 
Colored beans, 810. 
Compotes, 884. 

^ples, 889. 

oierries, 886. 

oranges, 886. 

berries, 886. 

peaches, etc., 886. 

sjrrap, 884. 
Contents, 7. 
Cooking, 9. 
Com (sweet), 821. 

cake, 481. 
Corn-salad, 84a 
Com-starch, TO, 
Consonnn664. 
Ciolis of fish, 101. 

^ veal, 101. 
Coorses, 460» 
Crabs, 158. 
Cranberries, 887. 

compote, 887. 

pie, 441. 
Craw-fish, 16a 
Cream, 387. 

sweet, 893. 

cheese, 88a 

an caf<g, 888. 

Chantilly, 898. 

caramel, 889. 

chocolate, 889. 

colte, 890. 

essence, 890. 

franeipane, 880i 

l^dre, 891. 

lemon, 887. 

orange. 890. 

patissiere, 891. 

renyers6e, 891. 

tea, 390. 

Tanilla, 890. 

whipped, 892. 

cakes, 428. 
Oroqae en boache, 894. 
Groqaettes of Teal, etc., 90a 

chicken, 34a 

potato, 88a 

rice, 87a 
Croqaignolles, 4Sfk 
Croatons, 114. 
Crnlleia 431. 



Crumbs, 80. 40 

white, 46. 
Cacnmbers, 821. 

in hors^'oeavrB, 8M. 

Slckled, 856. 
1 salad, 860. 

staffed, 823. 
Corrants, 

compote, 38a 

glazed, 897. 

Iced, 396. 

JeUy, 406. 

salad, 353. 

(dried), 67. 
Carry, 3D. 
Custard, 89a 

Dandelioo, 83a 

in salad, 848. 
Dessert, 468. 
Dining-room, SO. 
Dinner, 450. 

directioDB, 16. 
Dish, 30. 

Dishes (order of). 461. 
Divers receipts, 44. 
Doughnuts, 433. 
Draming, 30. 
Drinking, 31. 
Duck, 3^1. 

apple sauce, 366. 

cranberry sauce, 366. 

baked,366. 

roasted, 365. 

with turnips, 367. 
" currant-JeUy, 366w^ 
" garniture, 365. 

sant^, 366. 

with peas, etc., 36a 

stuffed, 36a 

boned, 368. 

preserved, 46. 

cold in salmis, 368. 
*^ croquettes, 
" salad, 36a 
Duckling, 364. 
Dust, to, 21. 

Ears, 315. 
Eclairs, 424. 
au cafg, 425. 
*' chocolate, 434. 
"tea, 425. 
" Tanilla, 425. 
" currants, 426. 
" strawberries, 436. 
"fellies, 436. 
" eBBeDce,42a 
Economy, sa 
Eels, 186. 

broiled, 186. 
Med, 187. 
xQaated,lSn. 



1 



!. 



nn>sx 



469 



fy> 



It 
it 
t( 



Bele: In matelote, 187. 

•stuftedflST. 

in vol-aa-yent, 419. 
Eggs, 866. 

beater, 34. 

crambs to fty, 80. 

whites (to beat), 868. 

Bechamel, 867. 

boiled, 860. 

fried, 860. 

an gratin, 868. 

l la tripe, 86S. 
" nelge,862. 

poached, 863. 

scrambled, 860. 

8tnffed,868. 

Lyonnaiae, 867. 

snr le plat, etc., 860. 

in matelote, 861. 

fricassee, 867. 

with vegetables, 869, 811 
'' cheese, 867, 868. 
ham, etc., 869. 
fines heroes, 867. 
sances, 868. 

gamitare, 116. 

&i salad, 860. 

r.piant, 828. 

live, 830. 

in salad, 848. 
Entr^s,462. 
Entremets, 468. 
Epigramme, 199. 
Errors in cooUng, 34. 
Escalops, 168, 306. 
Essence of beef, 63. 
spinach, 63. 

Fanchonnettes, 416. 
Fans, 416. 
Farces, 113. 

bread, 118. 

cabbage, 118. 

combs, 118. 

croutons, 114. 

dnxelle, 114. 

egg, 116. 

financiere, 116. 

Hver. 116. 

Macedoine, 116. 

mushroom, 116. 

onion. 116. 

quenelles, 116. 

salpicon, 117. 

truffles, 117. 
Fat (chicken, etc.), 29. 

to clarity, 29. 

for frying, 39. 
Fecula, 76. 
Fennel, 36. 
Fenillet^s, 418. 

&laCond6,414. 
Figs. 96. 



(I 
t( 



ii 



Ffflet, 168. 
Fines herbM, 36. 
Fish, 136. 
to keep, 88. 
quality, 86. 
to select, 136. 
** dean for boiling 12R. 
" *♦ baking, etc., 126. 
same spedes, 186. 
to know wben cookea eiunroh. 
136. 

improve, 136. 

bone, 126. 

skin, 126. 
" decorate, 127. 
kettle, 127. 
baked, 128. 
baUs,128. 
boiled. 139. 
broiled, 139. 
cold, 144. 
fried, 139. 
Ikki0rly,180. 
roasted, 180. 
saut^, 181. 
stewed, 131. 
stuffed, 181. 
k la crone, 136. 
anchovy butter, 129. 

** sauce, 136, 18C 
B^hamel, 186. 
Bordelaise, 143. 
Bretonne, 186. 
caper-sauce, 180, 136, 186 
court-bouillon, 186. 
cream-sauce, 186. 
egg-sauce, 136. 
flnes-herbes sauce, 186. 
gendvoise-sauce, 186. 
genoise-sauce, 136. 

Satin-sauce, 133, 186. 
oUandaise sauce, 180, 186, 181 
Italienne sauce, 186. 
Maitre d'hOtel sauce,. 139, 181 
matelote sauce, 182, 186. 
Mayonnaise, 180. 
piquante, 130. 
poivrade, 130. 
r^molade, 180. 
Tartar, 186. 
tomato, 180, 136, 136. 
vinaigrette, 134-188. 
bass, 180, 133. 
black-fish, 130, 183. 
blue-fish, 180, 133. 
cod, 186. 
" (salt), 145. 
eels, 183, 186. 
flounder, 180, 181; 
haddock, 186. 
halibut, 136. 
herring, 180. 

(salt), 147. 



M 



470 



INDEX. 



rish: 

ifMiflrfPfl 18B. 

** (nit), 148. 
pike, 1», 18^ IW. 

poig7,iao,ias. 

eafaiiaiL, 140. 

■bad, 14S. 

BheepVhead, 14S. 

Bkate, 189. 

tioat, 18S, 180. 

torbot, 148, 144. 

wbite-flsh, laO. 

CUUDB, 160. 

lobster, 140, 168. 

oysters, 166. 

floating islsiicl, 8GS. 

Alleiiumde sauce, 137. 
baked, 187. 
Nonnande, 187. 

** another, 188, 
boned and Med, 130. 
Ftonr, 36. 
Poies-gras, 96. 
Fondne, 862. 
Food,2S. 
Fox, 207. 
Franginane, 800. 
Fricanaean. 811. 
Fritters, ao. 
Frogs, 149. 

Fromage k la creme, 888. 
FmitTloe. 

oorer, 96. 

candied, 408. 

glazed, 804. 

iced, 807. 

for dessert, 401. 

preserved, 868. 

'' in Mqnor, 406. 
Frying, 11. 

batter Ibr, 80. 

Sat '' SO. 

lard " 9a 

directions for, 11. 

egga and crumbs for, 80. 

Galantine, 96. 
Qalette, 416, 460. 

du ninnaae, 416. 
Game, 276. 

pie, 484. 
Garlic, 26. 
Garnish. 118. 
Gamishlng, 118. 
Garnitures, 118. 
G^oise, 460. 

with almonds, etc., 461. 
** chocolate, etc, 461. 
Gibelotte, 208. 
Giblets, 278. 
Glazing, 26. 
Godireau, 117. 



Goose, 868. 

Mple-sauce, etc. 
Gooseberries in Jelly, 
Gosling, 868L 
Gi»e8,409, 

Injelly, 406w 

grazed, 807. 
Omyj ot meat, 66. 

lbh,101. 
Chnuse, 880. 
Gninea-fowl, 968. 



Haddock, 186w 
Halibut, 186. 
w^m 828. 

boiled, 888. 

in hors-d'oeuTre, 

with pur^e, 880. 

decorated, 880. 

roasted, 880. 

with sauces, 880, 9SL 
Hard cake, 489. 



Hazel-nut butter, 119. 
Head-cheese, 834. 
Herb broth, 91. 
Herring, 180. 

EM, 147. 

red.l4& 
Highholders, 879. 
Hominy, 891 
Hors-d\suyres, 46S. 
Horse-radish, 483. 
Hot weather, 81. 

Ice-cream, 802. 
Iced fruit, 807. 
Idxtg, 68. 

Ignorance in cooking, I 
Indigestion, 86. 
Isinglass, 86. 
Italian pastes, 86. 

Jam, 881 
JelUes, 68, 808. 

sweet or wine, , 

Mac^oine, 809. 

cold, 800. 

meat, 68. 

broth, 63. 

chicken, 63. 

turkey. 58. 

calfs-foot, 68. 

fruit, 406. 
Jelly-bag. 27. 
Juice or jus, 66. 
JnUenne, 73, 71 

Eld, 801. 

Kitchen utensils, 97 

Kisses, 458. 

Lady^s-flngers, 437. 



ISD1E3U 



471 



Lait de ponle, 98. 
Lamb, 108. 

^pigiamme, 199. 

fore-quarter, 198. 

hind-quarter, 199. 

eiitire,900. 

cold, 900. 

feet, 901. 

kidney 8,201. 



£sr^' 



Lard. «v. 
Lardinsr. 81. 

needle, 81. 
Leayen^^ 
Leeks, 894. 
L^mon in compote, 888. 

iced, 898. 

pie, 441. 
Lemonade, 44. 
Lentfls, 894. 

pm-^e, 190. 

Bonp, 81. 
Lettaoe, 894. 

inBalad,848. 
Lima beans, 809. 
Liver, 116. 
Lobster, 149. 

to boil, 160. 

bisqne. 70. 

croqaettes, 169. 

bntter, 118. 

Med, 169. 

another, 169. 

in boQCh^s, 490. 

'* Yol-an-yent, 419. 

" pie, 489. 

" salad, 161. 
another, 161. 

" the shell, 160. 

scalloped, 169. 
Loin,918. 
Lunch, 464. 

Macaroni, 870. 

croquettes, 879. 

au mtin, 810. 

Itauenne, 871. 

Napolitaine, 871. 

potage, 77. 
Macaroons, 461. 

with chocolate, 451. 
Mac^doine jelly, 899. 

gftis^, 869. 

omelet, 809. 

garniture, 116. 
Mackerel, 186. 

salt, 14& 

Spanish, 186. 
Madeleines, 469. 
Marmalades, 401. 
Matelote. 189-184. 
Meadow-lark, 979. 
Meat, 86 



jel 



Meat: 

to cook, 89. 
"keep, 88. 
ties, 488. 
[eOies, 68. 
gravy, 66. 
Melons, o6. 
iced, 886. 

melted butter, 119. 
Meringues, 469. 
apple, 879. 
Chantillv, 46a, 
Swiss, «». 
Meunidre, 66. 
Mince-pie, 441. 
Mint. 66. 
Miroton, 176. 
Mi3dnf , 19. 
Mock-tartle soup, 88. 
Motto, 48. 
Moulds, 84. 
Muffins, 489. 
Mulberries, 886, 406. 
Muscles, 168, 164. 
Mushrooms, 896, 897 
broiled, 896. 
pur^ 198. 
catsup, 837. 
garniture, 116. 
Mnstaid,848. 
Mutton, 184. 
baked, 185. 
roasted, 184. 

decorated, 185. 
with regetables, 186. 
haricot, 186. 
breast oroiled, 186. 
with sauces, 187. 
on purees, 187. 
chops. broUed, 187. 

with y^taUea, 188. 
in papiuotes, 188. 
with sauces, 188. 
saut^ea, etc., 187. 
leg, 190. 

boUed,199. 
decorated, 191. 
with regetables, 190. 
" currant-ielly, 190i 
" sauces, 190, m. 
stewed, 191. 
cold, 199. 
baked, 190. 
roasted, 190. 
with pux^ 190. 
neck, 187. 
saddle, 198. 
baked, 198. 
roastecLetc., 198. 
shoulder, 199. 
boiled, 198. 
boned, 199. 
stuired,199. 



i72 



QTDBZ* 



Mntton: 

on purees. VKL 
roaat«d,ll«. 
with sanoes, 198, 
cold, in Yinalgrette, 198, IM. 

** croqiiettes, 186. 
brain, etc, 191 



M 
il 



il 






tl 



it 

it 



«t 



Nastartinm, 8B0. 
Nongat, 468. 
NoaiUes, 875. 

Oil, 847. 
Oiled paper, 18. 

Olives, 84. 
Omelet, 868, 864. 
C^lestine, 866. 
MacMoine, 868. 
Bonffl^e, 869. 
MUX fines herbes, 866. 
«a natnrel, 866. 
with bacotn, 866. 
fimit, 86 6. _ 
cheese, 867. 
ham, etc., 868. 
kidneys, 867. 
lobster, 867. 
mnshrooms, 867. 
oysters and fish, 870. 
nun, 868. 
sorrel, 867. 
sugar, 867. 
sweetmeats, 370. 
Tegetoblrs, 866. 
Onions, 9S^ 
elazed,828. 
in puree, 1S3. 
" gamitare, 116. 
*' salad, 861. 
pickled, 868. 
Opossnm,297. 
Orangeade, 44. 
Oranses, compote, 886. 
gkzed, 8d4. 
iced, 888. 
presenred, 406. 
salad, 863. 
pie, 440. 
Order of didies, 461. 
Osmazome, 84. 
Otter, 297. 
Oysters, 165. 
raw, 165. 
in bonch^es, 431. 
" patties, 421. 
" Tol"*u-vent, 419. 
'' ponlette, 168. 
broiled, 167. 
fried, 166. 
roasted, 167. 
stewed, 168. 
scalloped, 167. 



Oysters: 

k la Washington, lAlL 

pickled, 168. 

soap. 90. 
Oyster-plant, 843. 

Fain i>erdn, 894. 
Pains of game, 438. 
Fanade, 66. 
Pancakes, 481, 454. 
Pap, 56. 
Paper, buttered. 18l 

oUed, 18. 
PapiUotes, 8ia 
Parsley, 86. 
Parsn^, 828. 

saate, 828. 

stewed, 829. 
Partridge, 282. 
Paste, 410. 



naff, 410^8. 
ro 



Tor meat-pies, 484. 
Pastry, 406. 

Pftte k chonx, 423. 
Pftt6.48a. 

de foies-gias, 26. 
Patties (bonui^es), 430l 
Peacock, 283. 
Peaches, baked, 401. 

in compote, 886w 

"Jeny,406. 

'' pie, 440. 

" salad, 868. 

iced, 897. 

preserved, 401. 

candied, 408. 
Pears, in compote, 886. 
"salad, 863. 

candiedjJOC 

glazed, 806. 

iced, 887. 

preserved, 403. 

syrup, 880. 
Peas (green), 829. 

b^ed,829. 

an Jus, 880. 

with ham, etc., 
" sugar, 880. 

in pur^, 121. 

Scanned)! 880. 

(i^t\ 880. 
in soup, 80. 

Pepper,*!?! ^ JU lUv^^y-*^ H'^'i^ 

Perdi, 182, 186. 
Petits fours. 4ia 
pains, 426. 

au chocolat, etc., 431 
Pheasant, 282. 
Pickerel, 189. 
Pickled encumber. 866i 



88a 



INDEX. 



473 



PIcldes, 868. 
Pies. 433. 

decorated, 436 

fralt,440. 

meat, 487. 

fish, 489. 

game, 486. 

mince. 441. 

pot, 442. 
Pig'B feet, 888. 

head, 288. 

Udiieys, 884. 

(sQck&g), 236, 286. 

toiigae,234. 
Pigeons, 269. 

baked. 271. 

broUed, 269. 

fried, 272. 

roasted, 270. 

stewed, 270. 

BtufTed, 270. 

in chartreuse, 269. 

** compote, 272. 

" crapaadine, 278. 

with vegetables, 269. 

pie. 436. 
Pike, 189. 

g^noise sauce, 189. 

with different sauces, 186, 186. 

in matelote, 13^181 

roasted, 130. 
Pine-apple, 362. 

glazed. 897. 

iced,m 

in compote, 886. 

" fritters, 38a 

syrap, 880. 
Pithiviers.415. 
Plover, 279. 
Plums, 403. 

candied2404. 

glazed, 897. 

iced, 897. 

in Jelly, 406. 

" marmalade, 886. 

»* pie, 440. 
Plnm-padoing, 447. 
Poached egss, 368. 
Pomm^B, 414. 
Porgy, 133, 136. 
3rk, 236. 



ckine* 236. 
catlets, 237. 



Por 



leg, S . 

ssat, 231, 

ham, 238. 

ears, etc., 233. 
Porte mantean, 414. 
Potages, 61, 

broth for, 63. 

chicken broth, etc., 66. 

veal, 68. 

v^etables, 69. 



Potages: 
&h.66. 

made quickly, 70. 
bisque of lobster, 70. 
" crabs, 78. 
*^ craw-flsh, 78^ 
bouillabaisse, 78. 
consomm6, 64. 
Colbert, 73. 
Ihncy, 77. 
Julienne, 73,74. 
& la Brunoise, 74 
Monaco, 74. 
r^gence, 76. 
royale, 76. 
au chasseur, 86. 
Chinese, 88. 
printanier. 76. 
velout^, 76. 
with arrow-root, 75 

" barley, 78. 

" bread, 76. 

" corn-starch, 7S. 

" carrots, 77. 

** fecula, 76. 

" gruel, 76. 

" giblets, 76. 

" Lidian meal, 76. 

" Italian pastes/78. 

** macaroni, 77-79. 

" mackerel, 77. 

" nouilles, 79. 

" potatoes, 79. 

** quenelles, 80. 

" rice, 80. 

" sago, 76. 

" semoule, 76. 

" tapioca, 76. 

** turnips, 80,_ 

" vermicelli, t7. 
pur6e ChantHly, 81. 

'' h la Cond^ 88. 

" " Cr6cy,88. 

»* " francaise, 81. 

" " reine784-86. 

**■ of asparagus, 88. 

»« '* artichokes, 83. 

" " beans, 81. 

t« ** cauliflowers. 88. 

" " chestnuts, 83. 

" " com, 83. 

" " lentils, 81. 

" " lima, 81. 

»» »* peas, 80. 

t» " potatoes, 81. 

** " pumpkins, 81. 

" " squash, 83. 

*' '' tomatoes, 88,81 

" »» tumiiw, 88. 

" " wheat, 83. 

" " fowls, 85. 
Soup maigre, 86. 
mock-turtle, 86 



i7i 



UIDEZ. 



Fotages: 

•oupfl, ■poitfflmui% 86. 
turtle, 87. 
cUuii,9S. 
rloe.88. 

beef and mutton, 86 
miUGl^flS. 
okn. 8Bi 
ox-ciieek,8Q. 

"tall, 80. 
QTatar, 06. 
pnt><ii-iBii, 61. 
iliMpVtail. 80. 
Borra, 80. 
with cabbacvi, 00. 
** caolilfower, 01. 

cnoCgCa vx* 
'* hertM,01. 
'' leeks, 08. 
'* ml]k,OL 
** onions, 88. 
ADemande, 08, 03. 
Indian, 03. 
Polish, 08. 
Russian, 04. 
Spanish, 05, 06. 
Po'Atoes, 880. 
l>oUed,881. 
steamed, 881. 
Allemande, 888. 
Anglaise, 888. 
Sarlgoale, 838. 
BtehameL 888. 
hraUed,m 
dachesse, 880. 
francaise, 838. 
fried, 883. 
HoUandalse, 838. 
Lyonnaiae, 884. 
Hattre d'hOtel, 881 
mashed, 836. 
Farisienne, 338. 
Polonaise, 836. 
saate^SW. 
sonfllMB, 836. 
staffed, 887. 
swelled, 883. 
in balls, 833,338. 
" cakes, 338. 
" croquetteSjffiS. 
" matelote, 880. 
" proyencaie, 836. 
" pnrfe, la. 
salad. 861. 
with bacon, 839. 
" hotter, 830. 
** cream, etc, 840L 
soap, 81. 
sweet, o4U. 
Pot-aa-fea,61. 
Poultry, 887. 
Pound cake, 482. 
Prairie hen, 888. 



tt 






Prairie hen: 
baked, 888. 
boned, 88& 
broiled, 888. 
presenred, 46. 
roasted, 886. 
sant^887. 
stewed, 887. 
with sauces, 887. 

▼egetables, 88S, 881 
currantjeUTjaST. 
garnitures, 887. 
mushrooms, 887. 
" oranges, 887. 
hunter-like, 887. 
larded, 884. 
in chartreuse, 884. 
** crapaudine, 887. 
" croquettes, 888. 
" fricassee, 887. 
"pie, 486. 
" parte, 110. 
" salad, 888. 
" satanis,886. 
** terreen, 438. 
Prawns, 164. 
Prefltce, 8. 

Preserves of berries, 408. 
of fruits, 401. 
" meat, 46. 
** Tcsetables, 368. 
Prunes, ^1. 
glased, 307. 



pie, 440. 
iddings,44S. 



Pn^ 

bread, 446. 

cabinet, 446. 

macaroni, 447. 

plum, 447. 

tapioca, etc., 447. 

Termioelli,446. 

sauces. 111. 
Puff-paste, 410^413. 
Pumpkins, 840. 
Punch, 407. 

Roman, 406, 468. 
Parties, of fruits, 

" vegetables, 180-184. 
" meat, 119. 
Purslstn, 840. 

Qaail,888. 

baked, 888. 

roasted, 880. 

y^getableSj^SOO. 

in chartreuse, 890. 

" pie, 486. 

hunter-like, 880. 

preserved, 46. 
I In grape-vine leaves, 800l 
; Quality of ilsh, 86. 

of meat, etc., 8ft. 
i Qaenelles, 117. 



izn)Ex. 



47S 



it 

44 



in manualade, 887. 
♦* jelly, 406. 

Babbit, 890. 

baked, 201. 

larded, 201. 

roasted, S08. 

Baat6, 294. 

stewed, 294. 

In dautreoae, 29L 
**GlTet,29L 
" croqnetteB, 991 
eibekotte, $98. 
Marengo, 298L 
" pie, 481. 
" Yol-aa-Tent, 420. 

with oUtob, 298. 
" peas, 294. 
" corrant-ielly, 298. 
" sauces. 291, 894. 

sportsman-like, 29i. 

cold, 296. 
1 JMXXwn, 897. 
Radisbes, 811. 
Rail, 279. 
Raising, 408. 
Raisins, 67. 
Raspberries, compote, 880. 

JeUy. 400. 
Raw materials, 86. 
Ray, 189. 

an benrre n(dr, 140. 
Red herrinffjl48. 
Reed-bird, 279. 
Reley^s, «S. 
Rbabarb, 841. 

piM41. 
Rice, 872. 

in border, 878. 

cake, 878. 

croquettes, 878. 

fritters, 874. 

soDffl6^4. 

soap, 00. 

water. 878. 

with tot, 874. 
Rice-bird, 279. 
Rissoles, 416. 
Roa8ting^2. 
Robins, 279. 
Rolls, 468. 
Roman punch, 406. 
R0ts,463. 
Roax,109. 
Ram cakes, 480. 

Sage, 86. 
Sago, 76. 

Samt-Honor^ 438. 
Salads, 847. 

of greens, 848. 
'' Iroitsriak 



Salads : of pooltar, 266. 

*^ game, 288. 

*« &h,863. 
Salmis, 296. 
Salmon, 140. 

broiled, 148. 

in firicandean, 140. 
" Gendvoise, 141. 
** hors-d^oeavre, 
'* papillotes, 140. 
*' I^e, 439. 
'« salad, 141. 
'* scallops, 141. 

caiwr^saooe, 186. 

court boaillon, 140. 

mattre d'hOtel, 140. 

roasted, 180. 

salt, 1^,147. 

smoked, 147. 
Salpicon, 117. 
Salsify, 848. 

Bechamel, etc., 84t. 
Sandwiches, 67. 
Sardines, 146. 
Saace, 97. 

AIlemande,06. 

anchory, 99. 

apple, 90. 

Bechamel, Oil 

blonde, 100. 

bread, 100. 

brown, 100. 

caper, 100. 

celery, 100. 

Champagne, lOS. 

Colbert. 100. 

ooulis, iOl. 

cranberry, 99. 

cream, 108. 

craw-flsh, 106. 

cudtmber. 108. 

currant, 99. 

diplomat, 108. 

21^,108. 
pagnolle,10t. 



fines herbes, lOiL 
fish, 108. 
Gendyoise, 141. 
G&ioise,106. 

Smvy, 66. 
ollandaise, 101 
Indian, 104. 
Italian, 104. 
Juice, 66. 
lobster, 106. 
Madeira, 106. 
mattre d^hOtel, IQiw 
matelote, 188, 188. 
Mayonnaise, IO61. 
muscle. 111. 
mushroom, 106. 
oyster, IIL 



1 



i76 



Banoe: 

Fiurlsleime, 108. 

peadi, 09. 

plunante, KM. 

poimde, 107. 

Polonaifle. 107. 

ponlette, 107. 

prawn, 100. 

prinoeMe, 108. 

pTOTen^ale. 108. 

nTlcote,106. 

nspberry, 09. 

r6molade, 100. 

BobertJOB. 

ronZflOO. 

BhaUot, 100. 

shrimp, lOS. 

Boabise, 100. 

Baprdme, 100. 

tarragon, 11& 

Tartar, 106. 

tomato, 110. 

tmffle, 110. 

T«ioat6, 110. 

white, ill. 

TinaLgrette, 110. 

tor bunc mange, 861. 
" puddings, 111, lia. 
'' Bayarin, 4ao. 
Sancisaons, 10. 
SaoBagoB, 10. 
SauBage-meat, 67. 
Sant6&g, 18. 
Bararin, 480. 
8canopB,168. 

on the BheH, 160. 

of salmon, 141. 

'' yeal, 906. 
Scalloped-knife, 86. 
Seasoning, 14. 
Bemonle, 76. 
Shad, 143. 

broiled, 143. 

iL la Chambord, 142. 

an gratin, 142. 

in proyencale, 142. 

with sorrel, 142. 

staffed, 187. 

roasted, 180. 
Shallots, 87. 
Sheep's brain, 104. 

f&et,104. 

kidneys, 106. 

tongne, 197. 
Bheep^chhead lish, 143, 148. 
Bhort-cake, 483. 
Shrimps, 164. 
Simmering, 14» 
Skate, 189. 
Skewers, 87. 
Skirret,m 
Skonk, 398. 
BmaU birds, 378, 370. 



SmallflBh,126. 
Smelts, 129. 
Smoked tonigae, 188. 
Bnails,808. 
Snipe, 379, 296. 
Sole,l87. 
Sorrel, 842. 

an Jns. 818. 

inpar6e,848. 

*' salad, 860. 

** soap, 80. 

prnBerred, 848. 
Sonffl6&400. 
Soaps, 61. 
Sonr-kroat, tfl6. 
Boose, 66. 

Spanish mackerd, 18iL 
SparrDw-gzass, 807. 
8ploes.8& 
Spinach, 848L 

an beorre, etc., ditk 

" Jas, 844. 

** sacre, 844. 

k la erdmcL 844. 

essence, 63. 
Sponge cake, 481. 
Sporuiman's soap, 86. 
Sprats, 145. 
Sprouts, 84S. 
Squash. 840. 
Sqairrel, 280. 
St«tks, 171. 

turtle, 88. 
Sterlet, 148. 
Stewing, 14. 
Stilting, 80. 
Straining, 80. 
Strawberry, giaced, 80iL 

lced,ffle.^ 

In compote, 886. 

" fritters, 808. 

" jelly, 406. 

** salad, 862. 

** short-cake, 482. 
Stnfflnff of birds, 268. 

flsn,181. 
Sturgeon, 140. 
Saocory, 890. 
Sacootash. 831. 
Sucking^i^386. 

boned, 886! 

roasted, 386. 

decorated, 386. 
Sugar, 88, 876. 

burnt, 47. 

cooked, 876. 

dusted, 31. 

pulverized, at. 

syrup, 876. 
Sun-fish, 182. 
Supper, 464. 
Syrup wot compotes, t9A. 



IHDEZ. 



477 



Syrnp: 

sugar, ff?8. 

apple, 880. 
Sweetbreads, 288. 
Bwoet dishes, 8T8. 

potatoes, 940* 

Tapioca, 447. 
Tarragon, 40. 
Tarts. 441. 
Tartelettes, 414 
Tasting, 14. 
Tea, 68. 

cake. 488. 

(md), 464. 
Tench, 183. 
Tenderloin, 168. 
Terrapin, 87. 
Teireen, 488. 
Thrash, 279. 
Thermometer, 410. 
Thyme, 86. 
Tin tabes, 40. 
Toaste, 69. 
Tomatoes, 845. 

salad, 861. 

staffed, 845. 

stewed, 846. 

preserved, 864. 

catsap, 864. 
Tongae, 178. 
Tripe, 181. 
Troat. 189. 

genoise saace, 189. 

m matelote, 183-184. 

with saaces, 186, 186. 
Troatlet, 189. 
Traffles, 40. 

gamitare, 117. 
Tannv, 143, 147. 
Tarbot,148.144. 

Bordehuse, 148. 

in salad, 144. 

" yol-an-vent, 419. 

" pie, 489. 

roasted, 180. 

cold, 144. 

in hors-d^cenyre, 853. 
Torker, 267. 

baked, 268. 

boiled, 267. 

boned, 260. 

preserved, 46. 

foasted, 268. 

stewed, 269. 

staffed, 269, 260. 

In croquettes, 264. 
** pie, 487. 
"salad, 264. 

with cranberry-saace. 259. 
** ovster-saace, 269. 
'« carrant-Jelly, 269. 

eold,263. 



Turkey: 

caponed, 964. 
Tomips, 846. 

Bechamel, etc., 84A. 

glazed, 846. 

an Jas, 846. 

wim sagar, 846. 
Tartle, 87. 

Vani]la,41. 
Veal, 2d3. 
baked, 205. 
blanqaette, 30S. 
broiled. 20a. 
broth, 66. 
croquettes, 206. 
ragout, 206. 
roasted, 208. 
in scallops, 206. 
" vol-au-vent, 420. 
with vegetables, 204. 
decorated, 204. 
breast, with peas, 207. 

in matelote, 208. 

stewed, 207. 
neck, 206. 
cold, 214 
cutlets, 206. 

baked, 209. 

saut^es, 209. 

with sauces, 210. 
*' garnitures, 209. 

in papillotes, 210. 

wiu mushrooms, 209. 

en Bellevue, 210. 
fricandeau, 211. 

au Jus. 211. 

flnancidre, 211. 

with peas, etc., 211. 
loin, or 1^, stewed, 218. 

baked,Si6. 

roasted, 208. 

decorated, 204. 
shoulder, on pnrtes, etc, )19l 

baked, 212. 

boned, 212. 

roasted, 213. 

stuffed, 212. 

en Bellevue, 218. 
brain, etc., 214 

pie, 487. 
Vegetables, 805. 
spoonsj^. 
Venison, 299. 
baked, 800. 
in civet, 800. 
cutlets, 800. 

with sauces, 801. 
haunch, 801. 

saddle, with currant-Jelly, 80S. 
shoulder, 803. 

stewed, 803. 

with truffles, etc., 808. 



1Tb 



INDEX. 



VflniMm: 

eoUL 80iL 
VeiiDioeiU.Tr,4iB. 
Vinegmr, 8«7. 
VoWui-yeDt, ^7. 

of flali,410. 



'' ojBten,410. 
'* chickeii, 419. 

^ game, 490. 
*j ihiit8,4aO. 

WtfflM,454. 
WalnnUi. 861. 
Water, tt. 



Weteienee,8«7,Ma 
Weak-fleh, 188. 
Welflh lareMt, OOl 
Whlte-fleli, 140. 
White pepper, 8B. 
Whortiebeiry, 888, 40. 
Winee.42. 
Wocdchiick^nT. 
Woodeock, aT9. 

in pie, 486. 

** Belinia, StML 
Woodpecker, aro. 

YeIlow4ilidi, im 

Z^h7n,468. 



fiu Baa 



GASTRONOMY AND HOUSEKEEPING. 

Household Hints S A Book of Home Beoeipts and Home Sngeestioni* 
By Mn. Emma W. Babooox. flexible clotili, with UluminAted design. 
12mo. 60 oents. 

OoimirTs: I. Introdaetoiy ; II. Bread, Te«. and Oofllse; III. Meats, Soups, and 
Fish: lY. Vegetables, Ceroala, and Salads; Y. Puddings and Pies; YI. Pickles; YII. 
Cake, Costard, and Candy; YIIL Frnit; IX. Miaoellaneons Hints; X Talks upon 
Yariooa Subjects. 

All Around the House } or, How to make Homes happy. By Mrs. 
Hbnbt Wabd Bbbohbb. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50. 

' Tbis.yohime, as its title implies, consists of papers upon topics concerning the or- 
dering and well-being of the household. It oontuns, in addition to a large number of 
receipts for cookiuff, and rules for marketing, numerous hints for the management of 
serrants and chiUren, directions as to ftunuhing, repairing, cleansing, etc., and infor- 
mation on all the innumentble things on which housekeepers need information, while, 
in addition to its nseftibiess as a guide to practical knowledge and economical methoda, 
it is eminently- interesting and suggestive, in its Tarious essays on h<nne topics, to every 
one eonoemed in the welikre and happiness of the hoosehou. 

Hand-hook ^of Practical Cookeryy for Ladies and Professional 
Cooks. Containmg the whole Sdenoe and Art of preparing Human 
Food. By P. Blot. 12mo, dotli, $1.76. 

Breaklksty Dinner* and Tea ; viewed Classically. Poetically, and 
Practioally. A new edition. Square 12mo, cloth, $1.50. 

Half-Tints: Table d'Hdte and Drawing-room. 12mo, doth, 75 cents. 



In Cookery: Hand-book of the National Training-School for 
Cookery, South Kensington^London ; to which is added the Princi- 
ples of l>iet in Health and Pisease, by Thomas E. Chambers, M. D. 
edited by Eulza A. Youmahs. 12mo, cloth, $1.50. 

The novelty and merit of the work are in the method bj wUch itaeeaxwMieees^^ 
practloe. Its lessons, the plainest, easiest, and Itallest, auywhere to be found, have 
grown out of a k>ng aod painstaking ezperlenca, in finding out the best plan of teach- 
ing beginners and ^orant persons how to cook well. Iney were perfected through 
the stupidities, blunders, mistakes, questionings, and dlfBeuIties, of hundreds of pupils, 
of all ages, gitides, and capacities, under the careftil direction of intelligent, practical 
teachers. 

Hand-book of Dining ; or. Corpulency and Leanness Scientifically 
Considered. By Bbilult bAYABiN. Translated by L. F. Simpson. 
12mo, $1.00. 

Sodal Etiquette of New Tork. New and enlaiged edition. Con- 
taining two additional chapters — ^' Extended Visits," and *^ Customs 
and Costumes at Theatres, Concerts, and Operas *' — ^with the chi4>ter 
on *' Etiquette of Weddings " rewritten in accordance with the latest 
fashionable usage. 18mo, doth, gilt, $1.00. 

Hand-book of Hoaaehold Sdenee. By Professor E. L. Yov- 
icANS. 12mo, doth, $1.75. 

This work has been {yrepared to meet a long-acknowledged want in our homes and 
schools. There is a strong snd growing demand for that kind of knowledge which 
can be made available in the daily operations of fiuniUar Hfe. Y arious books have been 
prepared which cross the field of domestic science at dlfi'erent points, but this is the 
first work that traverses and occupies the whole ground. Hardly a page can be opened 
that does not convey information interesting and valuable to every person who dwells 
in a house. The work will be found not ody of high practical utuify, but captivating 
to the student, and unequaled In the interest of its redtationa. 

New York: D. APPLETON <& CO., 1, 8, <ft 5 Bond Street. 



BOOKS FOR EVBBT HOUSEHOLD. 



Cooley's Cyclopaedia of Practical Receipts, 

And Collateral Informalion in the Arta, Hairafaetarea, Professions, and 
Trades, including Medicine, Pharmacy, and Domestic Economy. 
Designed as a Comprehensive Supplement to the Phannacopceia, 
and General Book of Reference for the Mana&otitrer, Tradesman^ 
Amateur, and Heads of Familiefl. Sixih edUion. Reirised and 
partly rewritten by Hichabd Y. Tufloir, Professor of Chemistry 
and Tbxicology in the Royal Teterinary College. Complete hi 
two volumes, 8vo, 1,796 pages. With Diustrations. Price, $9.00. 

*^ The great characteriitic of tbis work is its general naeftilneBS. In covering 
such diverse sabjects, the very best and most recent research seems to bave 
been sought for, and the work is renuurkable for intelligent indnetry. This 
very complete work can, then, be highly leeommeadAd as mlfilling to the letter 
what it purports to be— « cyclopaedia of practical receipts/*— iV^w York Timet. 

** It is a well-edited special work, compfled with excellent Judgment for spe- 
cial purposes, which are kept constantlj m mtnd. If ft is more comprehensive 
than its title suggests, that is only because it is impossible to define the Umito 
of its purpose with exactitude, or to describe its contents upon a title-page, 
ninstrations of the text are ft«ely used, and the meclumical execution of the 
work is ex.ttVi'soV'-New York EverUng PoU, 

The Chemistry of Common Life, 

By the late Professor Jaibs F. W. JomraroN. A new edition, revised 

and enlarged, and brought down to tiie Present Time, by Abthuk 

HxRBXRT Chubch, M. A., Oxon., author of "Food: its Sources, 

Constituents, and Uses.** Illustrated with Maps and numerous 

Engravings on Wood. In one rol, 12mo, 592 pages. Cloth. 

Price, 12.00. 

SuHKAST 07 CoNTENTS.-^The Air we Breathe; the Water we Drink; the 

Soil we Cultivate ; the Plant we Bear ; the Bread we Eat ; the Beef we Cook ; 

the Beverages we Inftise ; the Sweets we Sztiact ; the Liquors we Ferment ; th« 

Narcotics we Indulge in ; the Poisons we Sdect ; the Gdors we Bi^oy ; the 

Smells we Dislike ; the Colors we Admire ; What we Breathe and Breathe for; 

What, How, and Why we Digest ; the Body we Cherish ; the Circulation of 

Hatter. 

In the number and variety of striking illustrations, In the simpllcltj of Its 
style, and in the closeness and cogency of its arguments. Professor J<»nston*B 
** Chemistry of Common Life " has as yet found no equal amone the many books 
of a similar character which its success originated, and It steadily maintains Its 
preSminence in the popular scientific literature of the day. In preparing this 
edition for the press, the editor had the opportunity of consulung Professor 
Johnston^s private and corrected copy of ^ The Chemistry of Common Life.*^ 
who had, before his death, gleaned very many fresh details, so that he was able 
not only to incorporate witn his revision some really valuable matter, but to 
learn the kind of addilion which the author contconplated. 



D. APPLETON 6* CO., Publishing 1, 3, dr- S Band SL, New York 



> 




r 



f^.iJAh<^ '1^7 




tDP6 



06- M 




.•^ ' • ■.•.••■••■•■ w ^ 
.•.-■"' .■ «' ..■■■.■■.■■.•..■■■, , ^/j> 



