GOLDWIN SMITH 



THE LAND AND THE LABOURERS. 



" Co-operation seems to me fully to deserve all the enthusiasm which has 
gathered about it. . . . If it is successful it will work a beneficent, social, and 
economic revolution of the widest scope — a revolution moreover so conducted as 
to leave no heritage of suffering and no aggravation of bitterness behind." — Bishop 
Light/oot. 

" I am one of those who like to see a great variety in the size of holdings, especially 
a liberal proportion of small or moderate holdings. ... I have always regretted 
the tendency, in some cases almost a mania, for absorbing small holdings by consoli- 
dation. ... I trust the distress may produce, among other good fruit, a return to 
a better balanced judgment about the size of farms. . . . Nor can I abandon the 
hope of an era when we shall see a great extension of fruit, vegetable, and even flower 
culture, as part of our agricultural system, with an increased demand for more 
labour."—^/. Hon. W. E. Gladstone, M.P., " Letter to Mr. Joseph Arch." 



THE LAND AND THE 
LABOURERS. 



A RECORD OF 

FACTS AND EXPERIMENTS IN COTTAGE 
FARMING AND CO-OPERATIVE AGRICULTURE. 



BY 

CHARLES WILLIAM STUBBS, M.A., 

VICAR OF GRANBOROUGH, AUTHOR OF "VILLAGE POLITICS," ETC. 



LONDON: 

W. SWAN SONNENSCHEIN & CO., 

PATERNOSTER SQ. 



1884. 1 \ -J, /, 

y- 1 ^ 



:V' 



PREFACE. 



The two quotations which I have placed oppo- 
site the title-page of this book — one from an 
address by the Bishop of Durham to the Co- 
operative Congress at Newcastle, and the other 
from a letter by the Prime Minister to Mr. 
Joseph Arch — sufficiently indicate, I think, the 
purpose which I have mainly in view in the 
publication of the following pages. 

In the prospect of early Land Legislation, 
this expression of Mr. Gladstone's opinion with 
regard to the merits of Small Farming in 
England is most important, and is indeed likely 
to meet with frequent quotation, during the dis- 
cussions of the next Parliamentary sessions, by 
those Land Reformers, to whom, like myself, a 
radical revision of the English Land Laws 



vi PRE FA CE. 

seems mainly desirable in the interest of the 
labouring population, whose gradual divorce 
from the soil and consequent pauperisation 
during the last century and a half has been 
the parent of some of the most lamentable and 
mischievous of existing social evils. 

It will be evident, however, that the following 
pages are not intended to support the view of 
those who anticipate as a result of such legisla- 
tion the general establishment of a system of 
Peasant Proprietary in England, much less of 
those who are now advocating with so much 
vigour and enthusiasm what is termed Land 
Nationalisation, without sufficient care, how- 
ever, as it appears to me, on the part of its 
, supporters to define accurately which of the 
three utterly antagonistic schemes — (i) Com- 
pensatory, (2) Confiscatory, or even (3) Collec- 
tivist — they understand by that very high- 
sounding phrase. A radical revolution in the 
English Land System I do without doubt most 
earnestly desire to see ; but I trust that it 
will be a revolution such as that anticipated 



PREFA CE. vii 



by Bishop Lightfoot, " beneficent, social, and 
economic," by which, among other good results, 
the rural labourer and cottage farmer shall in 
adopting co-operative institutions be able to 
secure for himself all the advantages of Peasant 
Proprietary without any of its corresponding 
evils. 



CONTENTS 



THE LAND AND THE LABOURERS . 

HISTORY OF THE ALLOTMENT SYSTEM 

THE CLERGY AS GLEBE LANDLORDS 

CO-OPERATIVE SMALL FARMING 

AN IRISH EXPERIMENT . 

THE NEW SYSTEM ITES . 

LESSONS OF THE RALAHINE EXPERIMENT 

CO-OPERATIVE FARMS AT ASSINGTON, ETC. 

AN EXPERIMENT IN CUMBERLAND . 

SOME EXPERIMENTS IN GERMANY . 

A colliers' COW CLUB 

A CO-OPERATIVE COW CLUB IN BUCKS 

APPENDIX I. .... 

APPENDIX II. ... . 



II 

33 

47 
56 

63 
80 

94 
107 
123 

137 

148 

158 

175 
181 



PEASANT FARMERS 



AND 



CO-OPERATIVE AGRICULTURE. 



CHAPTER I. 

THE LAND AND THE LABOURERS. 

" You tell me you have improved the land, but what have 
you done with the labourers ? " — SiSMONDl. 

" Much food is in the tillage of the poor, but there is that 
is destroyed for want of judgment." — Prov. xiii. 23. 

" We are told that the first effort of the state in agricultural 
matters should be to increase the produce of the land. I 
firmly deny that. I quite admit that it is an important thing 
to increase the produce of the land, but it is not the most 
important. It is not so important as maintaining in happiness 
and respectability a large class of our fellow subjects." — 
Lord Salisbury: S^peech at Hitchin, Dec. 'jth, 1882. 

Twelve years' work as a country parson in a 
Buckinghamshire village have forced upon me 
two very definite conclusions. They are these: 
I. That of the many urgent social problems 
with which at the present moment Englishmen 



12 THE LAND AND THE LABOURERS. 

are confronted, . there are few whose solution is 
not largely dependent upon such a revision of 
the English Land System, as shall permanently 
raise the social and economic condition of the 
English rural labourer. 

II. That any permanent elevation of the 
rural labourer's standard of comfort is im- 
possible, unless there can be effected either [a) 
a great increase in the proportion of small 
agricultural holdings in England ; or (J)) the 
adoption of some system of agriculture, pro- 
bably co-operative, which shall once more 
make it economically advisable to increase 
largely the amount of English labour applied 
to English land. 

It will be my object in the following pages 
to justify these two conclusions. 

In the present chapter, however, I desire to 
do two things — [a) to give a record of certain 
facts, with regard to the cultivation of small 
holdings by rural labourers, which have come 
under my own immediate observation during 
the last few years ; and (/;) to call attention to 
certain deductions which it seems to me may 
be fairly drawn from these facts. 

And, first, as to the facts. 



THE LAND AND THE LABOURERS. 13 

Economic Results of Small Husbandry. 

At the close of the year 1873, I divided a 
portion of my glebe land (22 acres) into half- 
acre allotments among my labouring parish- 
ioners, at an annual rental of 66^. an acre. I 
have retained two lots, that is to say, an acre 
of this ground, in my own hands. I have 
worked it on exactly the same method of 
husbandry as that of the remaining allotments. 
That is to say, being heavy clay land, not over 
well drained, but sloping for the most part to 
the south and west, the kmd of crops we grow 
are wheat, beans, oats, potatoes, mangold 
wurzel, carrots, garden vegetables, and so 
forth. Now, being interested in collecting 
what facts I could as to the results to be gained 
from small as opposed to large culture, I have 
kept accurate accounts during some years of 
the outgoings and incomings on my one-acre 
farm, and what has been my result? In the 
last six years of agricultural depression, my net 
profit on the acre, after allowing fully for rent and 
taxes, seed, labour, and manure, has been ^3 Zs. 

Let me give in a tabulated form an abstract 
of my balance sheets from 1878-1883. 



14 THE LAND AND THE LABOURERS. 



Year. 


Outgoings. 


Incomings. 


Net Profit. 




£ s. 


d. 


£ s. 


d. 


;^ s. d. 


1878 


10 


6 


16 6 





6 5 6 


1879 


13 18 


6 


15 I 





126 


1880 


II 18 


3 


15 6 


6 


3 8 3 


1881 


12 7 


5 


16 I 





3 13 7 


1882 


12 3 


4 


13 15 





I II 8 


1883 


12 13 


4 


17 4 


6 


4 II 2 



;£7i I 4 £91 14 o ^20 12 8 
Average annual capital employed per acre 

(outgoings) ;£i2 3s. 6|^. 

Average Annual Incomings .... £^\^ 125.40'. 
Average net profit or something like 28 per 

cent, on the capital invested . . . ^2^3 Zs. g^d. 

It may be perhaps useful to give the full 
balance sheet for a fairly typical year. I will 
take 1 88 1, because in that year one of the 
leading agriculturists in my neighbourhood, 
Mr. W. Smith of Woolston, did me the honour 
to criticise publicly my results, and I can thus 
give his criticism and my reply. 

Here is the Balance Sheet for 1881 : — 

Ouf^oi/tgs. 

£ s. d. 

Wages of Labour . . . .679 

Seed, etc. . . . . .138 

Manure . . . . . . i 10 o 

Rent and taxes . . . . .360 

£^2 17 5 



THE LAND AND THE LABOURERS. 15 



Tncofuings. 












£ s- 


d. 


Wheat, 5 sacks .... 


. 


5 





Potatoes — 55 bushels at 2s. . 


. 


5 10 





Twelve bushels damaged potatoes, 


sold 






for pigs ..... 


. 


6 





Wurzels, 30 cwt. Carrots, 3 cwt. . 


. 


I 15 





Beans, 5 bushels .... 


. 


I 





Straw (one ton) .... 




2 10 







16 I 









12 7 


5 



Net profit per acre . . . ;^3 137 

A Farmer" s Criticism. 

And here is Mr. Smith's criticism : — 

"There are a few items very questionable. Take 
potatoes, said to have been sold at 2s. per bushel. Why, 
I bought fine potatoes last autumn at is. 6^., and the 
market has been clogged ever since. Now take straw at 
j[^2 \os. Why, I bought a lot last autumn, delivered home 
at ;^2. Now look to manure ; bought £,1 \os. for beans 
and roots, including potatoes. Half his land that must get 
manured to keep on under such a cropping would need 
10 tons of London dung yearly, which at 6j". dd. per ton 
at the railway station would cost quite 8i". per ton on" the 
land, or ;£"4 for the half-acre. These three items corrected 
stand thus — 



i6 THE LAND AND THE LABOURERS. 

£ s. d. 
From 55 bush, of potatoes at 6//. . .176 
From I ton straw . . . . .0100 

Extra for manure . . . . .2100 
Now I must put in interest of money 
on £^\2 . . . . . . o 12 o 



Total . . . . . 4 [9 6 
Loss I 5 II 



Mr. Stubbs's balance . . . • 3 13 7 

Mr. Stubbs must show a better Balance Sheet, or it is of no 
use for him to come out to show us how to farm. We 
cannot all buy cheap dung, neither can we all sell dear 
potatoes or dear straw, and tenants' capital ought to bear 
interest." 

The following was my reply : — 

*' In the first place let me say at once that of course 
I am quite prepared to allow that my Balance Sheet would 
be valueless as an example of average results if it can be 
proved that I am farming under exceptionally favourable 
circumstance of purchase or sale. But this is a contention 
which it seems to me Mr. Smith has singularly failed in 
proving. He asserts, it is true, that I have sold my potatoes 
too dear and bought my dung too cheap. But where is 
the proof of this? I put down my potatoes at 2s. a bushel. 
Mr. Smith says that I ought to have put them down at 
js. dd. Why ? Because .le bought potatoes at that price 
last autumn. But I was giving the results of my farming, 
not of his. And I contend that 2s. was a fair "times 
price " about here for potatoes of my sort last Michaelmas 



THE LAND AND THE LABOURERS. i; 

I know several labourers at any rate who sold their potato 
crop from tlie same field at 2s. Gd. a bushel, and moxe than 
one who got 3-s-. ]5ut for my part I do not argue from that 
that they were exceptionally lucky in their sale. I only 
suppose that my tenants were a little better tradesmen than 
their landlord, were more successful, in fact, in acting up to 
that business maxim of selling in as dear a market as you 
can and buyin.2: in as cheap an one, which I suppose from 
his argument Mr. Smith does not accept. 

" So again as to straw. Mr. Smith says a ton of my straw 
is not worth ^2 loj-. because he can buy straw, delivered 
home, at ;£"2. 

" In reply I would say that not only did I get that value 
for it, but I knew that my purchaser was giving the same 
price elsewhere, and that other of my labouring tenants sold 
their straw at the same price, to be fetched away, to the 
regular dealer, and therefore, I suppose, to be sold again 
at a profit. Moreover one of my tenants, who has only 
just threshed his corn, has been lucky enough to sell it at 
;,^3 \os. And then Mr. Smith must know very well that 
allotment straw is straw, and not straw, couch grass, and 
thistles. 

"Then, again, as to manure. Mr. Smith says /want ten 
loads of London dung at ^4 to keep my land* in good 
heart. I reply, why in the world should I buy ten loads of 
London dung at ^{^4, when I can get ten loads of Gran- 
borough dung at half that price with as good results ? 

" By the way, on this question of manure I should much 
like to ask Mr. Smith, who I am told is a practical man, 
two practical questions. 

'' L If he considers ten tons of London dung the fair 
allowance per acre for farming land once a year, what does 
he think of the farming operations of his neighbours here- 



i8 THE LAND AND THE LABOURERS. 

abouts, whose land, I venture to assert, seldom gets more 
than five loads to the acre, once in three or even four 
years ? and 

"II. What is the special agricultural advantage of the 
large dung heaps by the roadside, which I so continually 
see left subject to the action of wind and rain for weeks, 
with all the best of the ammoniac liquid, assisted by neatly 
cut channels, draining away for the fertilisation of the weed 
crop of the nearest ditch ? 

" I remember to have read somewhere in an Agricultural 
Gazette that the waste in farmyard manure in England was 
equal in value to another rental of the land. When I see 
the wealth of these roadside dung heaps so unintelligently 
squandered away, I confess I am not surprised to hear it. 

" Lastly, as to interest on capital. That may no doubt be 
a fair point. At any rate I will concede the i2i-., or even 
the 13^. 7^., if he likes, and put my net profit at only ^3 
per acre, especially if in return he will do me the favour 
of stating the exact economic reason why tenants' capital 
should bear interest at five per cent, over and above the 
fair wages of its superintendence and the net profit on its 
use." 

The criticism of practical men is always 
valuable, and so I was glad to get Mr. Smith's 
letter. Whether my reply was satisf^ictory I 
must leave my readers to judge for themselves. 
The following remarks, however, made by two 
other of my critics last year, were not quite so 
easy to answer as those of Mr. Smith, but are« 
none the less characteristic. The first remark 



THE LAND AND THE LABOURERS. 19 

was made by the son of a farmer (I am glad to 
think no parishioner of mine) to the man who 
is good enough to act as baiHff to my one-acre 
farm — " Why ! what a fool you be, John, to let 
your parson get anything off his land ! " And 
the second remark was made to myself by an 
ingenuous member of the capitalist class — " By 
Jove, Vicar, what a good plan this of yours is 
to raise the rents of the land ! " 

There is another fact, however, that is worth 
attention in the above Balance Sheet. It will 
be observed that the produce of wheat upon 
the half-acre was 5 sacks, that is to say, at the 
rate of 40 bushels or 5 quarters to the acre. 
On the page of the account book from which 
the Balance Sheet is copied, I observe that I 
have made the following notes : — 

"In this year John Norman grew 9 quarters 
of oats on his allotment (i acre) ; and William 
Tompkins having a dispute with a farmer as to 
the likelihood of yield of wheat on his allotment, 
agreed to give the farmer everything over 
7 quarters that was threshed out. On measure- 
ment at harvest he had to pay the farmer 
I bushel of wheat. In other words, his yield of 
wheat from i acre was 57 bushels." It will be 



20 THE LAND AND THE LABOURERS. 

Interesting, I think, to compare these figures 
with one or two well-known standard results. 
I will give them a tabulated form : — 

Produce of wheat per statute acre in bushels. 

Farmer's average in Granborough . '25 

English average . . . . . .26 

French average . . . . . > ^Z 

American maximum . . . . -19 

Mr. Lavves' (high scientific farming) average . 36 

Allotment average in Granborough . . 40 

Mr. Lawes' maximum . . . . -55 

\ Allotment maximum (W. Tompkins) . '57 

English maximum . . . . .60 

This contrast In point of yield between their 
own allotments and their masters' fields does 
not fail, of course, to strike the men. There is 
a field in this parish which was held some time 
ago by a farmer at a rental of i \s. an acre. 
He gave it up because he could do nothing 
with it. '* It was," as he said, ''completely 
wore out." For this field the labourers now 
give ;^4 an acre. But they think they do 
badly if they do not get the allotment average 
given above, of 40 bushels of wheat to the 
acre, while the farmer is satisfied with 25 
bushels at most. When one remembers, too, 
that in very many cases the rent given by the 



THE LAND AND THE LABOURERS. 21 

farmer is little more than half that given by the 
labourer, can we be surprised that the labourer 
and the farmer differ very widely as to the true 
cause of the agricultural depression of the last 
few years ? And that leads me to the first 
deduction which I venture to draw from the 
foregoing facts. It is this. That one chief 
and much overlooked element in the agricultural 
depression of the last few years has been ^/le 
labour- starving of the land on the part of the 
farmers. 

The sequence of events in this neighbour- 
hood, at any rate, is not difficult to trace. The 
agricultural labourers' agitation of ten years ago, 
under the leadership of Mr. Arch, succeeded 
in raising the wages from 12^-. to 15^-. a week. 
The farmers protested that they could not afford 
to pay the extra wage. They were not able, 
however, to resist the pressure of the Union, 
but were compelled to give the extra 3^". a week. 
But they avenged themselves, as they thought, 
by employing less men. At first the plan seemed 
every way excellent. A farmer employing 
10 men, knocked off 4, and thus saved £2 Zs, 
per week on his labour bill. To the remaining 
6 men he gave the extra wage of 3^-., or an 



22 THE LAND AND THE LABOURERS. 

increase of iZs. on his weekly labour bill. The 
net gain per week to the farmer in vioney was 
thus 305., and his net loss in men was 3 
labourers. But the money was in his pocket, 
and the men were out of sight. This was all 
very well for the farmer ; but how about the 
land ? *' Ay, there's the rub!" It was starved 
for lack of labour. Then came the wet years, 
when more than ever labour was needed. But 
the labour was not now to be had. It had 
been driven out of the country. The census of 
1 88 1 showed a large decrease in the population 
of all the villages in Buckinghamshire. The 
land got fouler and fouler, and the natural 
result followed. I know of a field of 4 acres on 
one farm in this parish, which in old days used 
to bear fair crops, which gave a total yield last 
year of 22 bushels of wheat, or a little over 
5 bushels to the acre. During the whole of 
these years, however, under exactly similar 
conditions of weather, the labourers' allotments 
prospered, with a net result, as we have seen 
in one case at any rate, of nearly 28 per cent, 
on the capital invested. 

So much for my first deduction. But there 
are others. For example, with regard to the 



THE LAND AND THE LABOURERS. 2t, 

advantages of small holdings, to my mind 
three things at any rate are clear. 

First, that the possession of a small holding 
of land adds very largely indeed to the annual 
income of the rural labourer. 

Secondly, that small proprietorship, or even 
tenancy of the soil, exercises a very beneficial 
influence upon the moral character of the agri- 
cultural labourer. 

And, thirdly, that the system of large allot- 
ments or small holdings is worthy of extension 
for national reasons, as tending to restore that 
lost balance of property in the soil which is so 
necessary a factor in the civil policy of any 
soundly constituted state. Let me say a word 
or two on each of these points. 

Economic Restilts of Small Httsbandry, 

That the occupation of an allotment of land, 
if only say half an acre in extent, adds very 
materially to the annual income of the rural 
labourer, the figures which I have given above 
I hope conclusively prove. Incidentally, more- 
over, this fact suggests a solution to one of the 
most difficult problems which the rural reformer 
has to face. I mean the Cottaofe Question. 



24 THE LAND AND THE LABOURERS. 

Labourers Cottages. 

When Sir James Chettam in George Eliot's 
*' Middlemarch " takes objection to Miss 
Brooke's generous schemes for cottage building 
on the ground that labourers can never afford 
to pay a rent sufficient to return a fair interest 
on the capital invested, and yet amiably allows 
that ''perhaps after all the work may be worth 
doing," we are, most of us, I suppose, ready to 
give some sympathy to the impetuous outburst 
of Dorothea's indignation when she cried — 
''Worth doing! Yes, indeed, I think that we 
deserve to be beaten out of our beautiful houses 
with a scourge of small cords — all of us who let 
tenants live in such sties as we see round us." 

But after all Sir James Chettam is only 
typical of his class. " That good cottages 
cannot be built to pay," is the common burden 
of all the squires. The echo of it we have all 
heard in Lord Salisbury's recent article in 
The National Review on " The Housing of 
Labourers," where he states that two-thirds 
only of the cost of cottage building can be 
regarded as a commercial investment, the 
remaining third must be regarded as a charity 



THE LAND AND THE LABOURERS. 25 

and benevolence on the part of the landlord. 
And the squires, I believe, are in the main 
right. Good cottages, apart from charity, are 
impossible for the labourer without increased 
wages. But there is one consideration on this 
point I would venture to make. 

Might not the landlord himself do something 
towards increasing the wages by insisting upon 
the higher rent ? As the farmer has already 
found the increased labour bill of the last few 
years a severe strain upon his capital, a still 
further increase would only be possible by a 
corresponding reduction in farm rent. As, 
however, the landowner in this case would 
recoup himself for the loss in farm rent by a 
corresponding gain in cottage rent, it does seem 
a little strange that so obvious an economic 
adjustment should not long ere this have been 
made, at least by those landlords who have so 
far recognized the responsibilities of property 
as to provide efficient cottage accommodation 
on their estates. Their omission to do so I 
suppose is in reality a part of that reluctance, 
still so common in the rural districts, to take 
any step which would seem to substitute in 
rural class relationships the principles of com- 



26 THE LAND AND THE LABOURERS. 

mercial justice for those of feudal beneficence. 
Is it not time, however, that some protest 
should be made against an economic arrange- 
ment which in effect compels the farmer to pay 
to the landlord what is in reality due to the 
labourer, in order not to interfere, on the one 
hand, with that luxury of paternal protection 
which an improving landlord at present gains 
by being enabled to grant at somebody else's 
expense to the agricultural labourers on his 
estate efficient cottages below cost price, and, 
on the other, with the argument, so convenient 
to those landlords who have no desire to house 
their labourers well, that " cottage-building 
does not pay " ? 

There remains, however, the method, sug- 
gested by the results attainable on successful 
allotment farming given above, by which, as it 
appears to me at any rate, cottage property 
even at the present rate of wages can be made 
to return a fair interest on the capital invested. 

Let the landlord grant to every cottage 
tenant an allotment of land of not less than one 
acre. A cottager who cannot afford to pay 2.^. 
a week for a cottage only, can well afford to 
pay 35. G^'/. or 4^., or even more, for the same 



7HE LAND AND THE LABOURERS. zj 

cottage with an acre of land attached. It is 
my contention, therefore, as the second deduc- 
tion, I would desire to draw from facts, that 
although a cottage without land cannot, under 
present conditions, be built to pay, a cottage 
with land can. 

Moral Residts of Small Holdings. 

The cottage question leads, of course, directly 
to moral considerations. 

For how, I would ask (and I think here I 
have a right to put the question from my 
experience as a country parson), — how under 
such physical conditions as those which I find 
surrounding me in my daily work among my 
labouring parishioners — where, to put the matter 
as briefly as possible, in a village of fifty cottages 
we have only three with more than two bed- 
rooms, and seventeen with only one — is it 
possible for me to expect from my parishioners 
any approach to that "pure religion breathing 
household laws," which it is yet my duty as 
their pastor to endeavour to inculcate .^ How, 
with mere huts for homes, can the distinctively 
home virtues find any room for growth, parental 
love, filial obedience, household thrift, cleanli- 



28 THE LAXD AND THE LABOURERS. 



ness, modesty, chastity, self-respect, purity, and 
simplicity of heart ? Can I honestly ascribe 
the meagre growth of these virtues among my 
people solely to failure of individual will, or 
must I not rather trace them to circumstances 
of life and sleep so degrading as to leave no 
moral room for their growth ? What provision 
can there be under such conditions of home 
life, not only for the three essentials of physical 
life, pure air, pure water, pure food, but also 
for the three essentials of spiritual life, '' ad- 
miration, hope, and love " ? 

But aofain, look at the moral results of the 
occupation of land by the rural labourer from 
another point of view, namely, its influence on 
the promotion of thrift. And here I would 
desire to lay stress upon a principle which it 
appears to me is too much overlooked by those 
who are always preaching thrift to working 
people. It is this, — There is a stronger motive 
to save created by the desire of investment in 
the present than by the desire of insurance 
against the future. In other words, we shall 
be more sure of success in any attempt to 
encourage thrift and frugality among labouring 
people, if we can show them any means of 



THE LAND AND THE LABOURERS. 29 

lucrative investment, open to those of them 
who will exercise self-denial and economy, than 
if we were merely to point out to them the 
advantages of insuring against the probable 
misfortunes of the future. 

It is not of course, I need hardly say, that I 
would discourage such efforts at insurance — far 
from it. Penny banks, medical and sick clubs, 
provident dispensaries, clothing clubs, life in- 
surance societies — all these of course it is our 
duty, by all the means in our power, to encou- 
rage. These are indeed the *' working plant," 
so to speak, of every well-ordered parish. 

But I still desire to press home this principle, 
that we cannot afford to neglect that greatest 
of incentives to thrift which is created by the 
opportunity of direct present investment of 
savings. 

And that opportunity may, I am sure, best 
be found for the rural labourer in the occupa- 
tion and cultivation of land. 

I know nothing, at any rate, which fires the 
imagination of the rural labourer more than does 
that opportunity. To my mind, it is the natural 
starting-point In any successful scheme for the 
depauperisation of the labouring population. 



30 THE LAND AXD THE LABOURERS. 

After all, remember land is the most natural 
savings bank of the agricultural labourer. It 
is a bank which he understands. He is familiar 
with its working. He knows something of its 
system of deposits, its method of exchange, the 
nature of its reserve fund, of its risks, of the 
rates of interest which it offers, the value of its 
securities. 

Mr. Cobden, in a letter republished by Mr. 
Bright not long ago in the Tijnes, in fact sums 
up this side of the question in these words : 
" Looking at the moral aspect of the question 
alone, no one will deny the advantages which 
the possession of landed property must confer 
upon a man or a body of men — that it imparts 
a higher sense of independence and security, 
greater self-respect, and supplies stronger 
motives for industry, frugality, and forethought, 
than any other kind of property." Mr. Cob- 
den's remarks refer, of course, especially to the 
continental system of peasant proprietorship ; 
but they apply also, though not perhaps to an 
equal extent, to the English system of allot- 
ment tenancy. In the first report of the Royal 
Commissioners on Agricultural Employment in 
1867, ample evidence will be found in confirma- 



THE LAND AND THE LABOURERS. 31 

lion of the statement that the occupation of 
hind influences most beneficially the moral 
character of the labourers. 

Social Results of Small Holdings. 

But there is also a most important social 
side to this question. At present the allot- 
ment system is in fact the only means that has 
as yet been adopted to check that gradual 
alienation of the rural labourers from the soil of 
England which has been going on during the 
last century and a half, with, I venture to say, 
such mischievous social results. There is no 
man, I am sure, who has any care for the past 
or the future of his country, who can read any 
of the summaries of the Domesday Books, 
published a few years back, without mourning 
over the decadence and the national extinction 
of the independent class of small holders. Our 
tenant farmers, whatever their industrial value, 
do but ill-bridge over the social chasm between 
the landowner and the labourer. " What is to 
be the future land system of England ? " is the 
question that in reality faces us. How shall 
we answer it ? 

We stand, in fact, at the parting of the 



32 THE LAND AND THE LABOURERS. 

ways. On the one side we have the advocates 
of IndividuaHsm, on the other we have the advo- 
cates of NatlonaHsm. In New Zealand, I think 
I should be a Nationalist, for there the nationali- 
sation of the land might be possible as well as 
wise. In England the scheme, as it appears 
to me, would be neither wise nor possible 
short at least of civil war, and here therefore 
I can be a supporter of neither the drastic 
proposals of Mr. Henry George, nor the milder 
plans of Mr. Russell Wallace. But I can be 
an Individualist none the more. In economic 
questions I must still give the first place to 
moral considerations. In the eyes of God, I 
cannot forget that society exists not merely to 
further the accumulation of capital, but for the 
sake of the well-being and the happiness of the 
individuals who compose it. In considering, 
therefore, the possible future of the English 
land system, it is not only of the produce of 
the land or the profits of landowners that I am 
thinking. The well-being of the people is not 
of less importance than the wealth of the col- 
lective body. By the system of adding field to 
field, much has no doubt been gained by the 
state. But has nothing been lost ? The gain 



THE LAND AND THE LABOURERS. 2,2i 

may be measured by roods and perches, by 
pounds and by shillings and by pence. But 
with what measure shall we measure the loss ? 
'* You tell me you have improved the land," 
exclaimed Sismondi, ''but what have you done 
with the labourers?" In the last resort, after 
all, the question is not about wealth but about 
men. Or if we must think of things from the 
selfish point of view, consider this question. 
In a short time we shall have enfranchised a 
million of farm labourers. How are they to be 
secured on the side of public order ? 

A wide extension of proprietorship in the soil 
is, I answer, the strongest bulwark of national 
safety. Those who talk about the danger 
of Radical and Socialistic ideas, appear to 
forget, that when a social commune was erected 
in Paris in 1871, there were five million land- 
owners in France ready to take the side of 
public order, and to enforce the conservative 
view with regard to the right of property. 
Have we any such conservative safeguard in 
England ? I venture to say that the seven 
hundred and ten landowners who are proved 
by the new Domesday Book to hold one- 
quarter of the whole land of England, could 

3 



34 THE LAND AND THE LABOURERS. 

not Stand for one moment against the breath of 
revolution. I have no desire to be an alarmist. 
But I do most solemnly believe that the con- 
centration of land in large estates among a 
small number of families, and the consequent 
accentuation of the contrast between the rich 
and the poor, is full of danger for the future, 
and is, in fact, a direct provocative of social 
revolution. Latiftindia perdidere Italiam, was 
the verdict of the historian Pliny on the 
ancient Empire of Rome. God grant that it 
may not be the verdict of some future historian 
on the fall of Imperial England ! 



CHAPTER II. 

HISTORY OF THE ALLOTMENT SYSTEM. 

" Se I'aratro ha il vomero d'argento, la vanga ha la punta 
d'oro " {I'hough the plough has a silver share, the spade 
has a golden edge). — Italian Proverb. 

" As long as the connexion of the peasantry with the land 
was unbroken, England was perfectly free from every symptom 
of pauperism." — W. T. Thornton. 

"The question in the last resort is not about wealth, but 
about men." — Adolf Samter : Social-Lehre, 

As far back as the first year of this century a 
gold medal was offered by the Board of Agri- 
culture to the person '' who shall explain In the 
most satisfactory manner the best means of ren- 
dering the allotment system as general through- 
out the kingdom as circumstances will admit," 
which the Board asserts to be a ''great national 
object." During the early years of the century 
" The Society for Bettering the Condition of the 
Poor" — among the- earliest members of which 
was Mr. Wilberforce — urged, in their annual 
reports, the advantage of attaching suitable 
allotments to cottages, as one of the means by 



36 HISTORY OF THE ALLOTMENT SYSTEM. 

which the agricultural labourers would be im- 
proved both physically and morally. In the 
years immediately succeeding the peace of 1815, 
when the necessity for Poor Law Reform be- 
came so evident, the allotment system became 
a prominent subject with all social reformers. 
Mr. Cobbett, in his '' Rural Rides," notices, in 
the year 182 1, the benefit to the labourers of 
the good gardens which he observed in several 
parts of England, especially in the southern 
counties. '' There," he says, " you see that most 
interesting of all objects, that which is such an 
honour to England, and that which distinguishes 
it from all the rest of the world, namely those 
neatly kept and productive little gardens round 
the labourers' homes, which are seldom unorna- 
mented with more or less of flowers. We have 
only to look at these gardens to know what sort 
of people English labourers are." In 1827, a 
witness, examined by a select committee of the 
House of Commons on emigration, stated : *' I 
could load the committee with information as 
to the importance of the ^cottagers renting a 
portion of land with their cottages ; /'/ keeps 
them buoyant, and it keeps them industrious y 
And he enforces his opinion of the duty of 



HISTORY OF THE ALLOTMENT SYSTEM, i-] 

placing such land freely within their reach, on 
the ground, that "since 1760 they had lost 
about 4,000,000 acres of common, which they 
had formerly the privilege of using for their 
pigs, geese, and a variety of other things." 

Action of Legislature. 

In 18 19 an Act of Parliament was passed 
empowering the churchwardens and overseers 
of any parish to purchase or take on lease any 
suitable portion of land, and to let such portion 
of land '' to any poor and industrious inhabitant 
of the parish," to be occupied and cultivated on 
his own account. In 1831-32, further Acts of 
Parliament were passed, either amending or 
extending the provisions of the Act of 18 15. 

The effect of these Acts of Parliament, and 
the strong opinion expressed by the Poor Law 
Commissioners in 1834, ''that the immediate 
advantage of allotments is so great that if there 
were no other mode of supplying them, we 
think it would be worth while, as a temporary 
measure, to propose some general plan for pro- 
viding them," w^as to extend greatly the allot- 
ment system throughout the country. A select 
committee of the House of Commons, sitting in 



38 HISTORY OF THE ALLOTMENT SYSTEM. 

1843, reported that *' the tenancy of land under 
the garden allotment system is a powerful means 
of bettering the condition of those classes who 
depend for their livelihood upon their manual 
labour," and they added the important opinion 
that " Its benefits are not obtained at the ex- 
pense of any other class, nor accompanied by 
any corresponding disadvantage." Two years 
after this very favourable report of the select 
committee, Mr. Cowper, in introducing a Bill to 
* Promote the letting of field gardens to the 
labouring poor," stated that, "It appeared from 
history that before the land of England was 
brought fully into cultivation, almost all cottagers 
had land for tillage. All those above the con- 
dition of serfs had land in their own occupation, 
and, in addition to that, had common right over 
the waste lands. . . . He believed that previous 
to the 1 6th century all the peasantry drew 
portions of their maintenance from the soil. 
Since 1800, no fewer than 2,000 Inclosure Acts 
had passed. The amount of acreage was not 
set forth in the returns, but it must form no 
inconsiderable portion of the land of the country. 
The consolidation of small farms, so extensively 
adopted during the war with P" ranee, had con- 



HISTORY OF THE ALLOTMENT SYSTEM. 39 

tributed to deprive the labouring man of his 
opportunities of holding land. The giving up 
the tenure of leases on lives also had the same 
tendency. The result of the combined causes 
was that, until the allotment system was revived, 
the Eno^llsh labourer was severed from all con- 
nexlon with the land. . . . What he particularly 
valued in the system of allotments was the 
moral effect on the holder. The management 
of a garden was an Important Ingredient In his 
happiness. It was just the amusement which 
suited the labourer, and for which he was suited. 
This amusement was elevating In Its tendencies; 
and many Idle, careless, lawless individuals 
would be converted Into steady, sober. Indus- 
trious men, by having the means of h'armless; 
rational, and profitable employment." 

This Bill, however, though It succeeded in 
passing the House of Commons, and was read a 
second time in the House of Lords, was finally 
allowed to drop, Mr. Cowper expressing It as 
his opinion that notw^ithstandlng all that had 
been done, he believed a generation might be 
expected to pass away before there would be 
a general allotment of garden ground for 
labourers. 



40 HISTORY OF THE ALLOTMENT SYSTEM. 

Considerably more than a generation has 
passed away since that expectation was uttered, 
and still allotments of a proper size are far from 
being general. Unfortunately there is no 
means of accurately gauging the number of 
acres that has been so allotted. The Royal 
Commissioners on Agricultural Employment in 
1868 estimate, however, that out of 320,855 
acres, enclosed since 1845, ^^^ over which, 
common rights being unstinted, the general 
Inclosure Act of that year required that fair com- 
pensation should be made to the labouring poor 
by means of public allotments, only 2,119 acres 
were so assigned. Commenting upon this fact, 
the Commissioners state that this very inadequate 
precaution to secure the rights of the smaller 
commoners affords the greater reason why the 
owners of those inclosed lands should take care 
that the labouring poor should be in possession 
of field allotments of suitable size ; and further 
suggest that an annual return should be made 
by the officers of the Inland Revenue Depart- 
ment, by which it would be possible to ascertain 
how far the allotment system is carried out, and 
the average under that mode of cultivation 
*' corresponds with, or falls short of the quantity 



HISTORY OF THE ALLOTMENT SYSTEM, 41 

necessary to afford that desirable accommodation 
and resource, In ample measure, to the labourers 
In agriculture." 

Four years, however, after the publication of 
this Report by the Royal Commissioners, that 
great movement, under the leadership of Joseph 
Arch, began, which has done so much for the 
future of the English agricultural labourer. Not 
the least of the benefits which It has won for him 
has been the Allotment Extension Act, passed 
last year. The history of that measure is both 
Interestincr and Instructive. I am Indebted for 
the following account pf it to my friend Mr. 
Howard Evans, who was in fact the real author 
of the Act. In the early years of the agitation, 
Mr. Evans had himself seen In the various 
parts of the country which he visited as a dele- 
gate of the Union, how greatly such an Act was 
needed. Here, however, are his own words. 
I quote with his permission from an unpublished 
paper : — 

" Let me pay honour where honour is due. This question 
was first stirred by Mr. Theodore Dodd, the son of an 
Oxfordshire clergyman. Under the signature of * Equitas ' 
Mr. Dodd wrote in the Labourers' organ a series of articles 
on the local rights of farm labourers, which were afterwards 
widely circulated in a separate pamphlet. To the honour 



42 HISTORY OF THE ALLOTMENT SYSTEM. 

of some old-fashioned clergyman, Mr. Dodd pointed out that 
the men might elect a labourer as churchwarden if they 
chose, and in several cases this was actually done, though 
in one instance we had to serve a mandamus upon the 
Archdeacon before he would admit the labourer to office. 
Mr. Dodd called attention to the Act of William IV., which 
provided that fresh allotments should be let out to the 
labourers as gardens, and to the duty of the local authori- 
ties to put this Act in force. He held that the words of 
the Act applied not merely to fresh allotments under 
enclosure awards, but to all local charity lands. As many 
of the men had no allotments at all, and many others were 
allowed as a great favour to rent very small plots at fancy 
rents of from £^6^ to ;£"8 an acre, there was much inquiry 
about local charity lands. In almost every county the 
District Secretaries of the Union obtained the county charity 
reports, and the clamour for the possession of the charity 
lands became general. In many cases applications were 
made to the trustees of the lands, who invariably treated 
these applications with indifference. Of course the next 
step was to apply to the Charity Commissioners. We were 
not then so fully aware as we are now of the fact that the 
Charity Commissioners delight in drawing up schemes 
which provide for the confiscation of the ancient charities of 
the poor in order that the property mny be devoted to the 
benefit of the middle class. We did not want new schemes, 
we only desired that the Charity Commissioners should con- 
strue the old Act of William IV. as liberally as possible, 
and should use their influence with local charity trustees 
to secure its more comjUete enforcement. It was a very 
modest rccjuest, seeing that it would have itijured nobody, 
and would have been of considerable benefit to the 
labourers; but the Charity Commissioners would not allow 



HISTORY OF THE ALLOTMENT SYSTEM. 43 

me to appear as the representative of the men, and utterly 
refused to put upon tlie Act a Hberal construction. In one 
or two cases, where we at length obtained an inquiry into 
the whole of the local charities and a new scheme was 
drawn up, we succeeded in making the transfer of the land 
to the men a part of the scheme. I recollect one case 
where there were only a few very small allotments at high 
rents a mile away, while there were 20 acres of charity land 
close to the men's own doors, which were let to the largest 
farmer in the parish. A few months after the labourers 
came into possession, I visited the village, and saw the men 
at work on their allotments in the evening. Some of them 
told me that their plots were as good as -t^s. a week extra 
wages to them. 

" When the Charity Commissioners showed me the door, 
the only course was to bring in a Bill which should make it 
clear that our construction of the old Act was to be acted 
on. I talked the matter over with Mr. Dodd, and then 
consulted a friend of mine, a barrister in the Civil Service. 
I explained to him that I wanted a Bill which would cover 
all local charities, — an exception was afterwards made of 
those left for church and educational purposes, — and he 
drew a Bill on the lines indicated. I then went to Sir 
Charles Dilke with the draft of the Bill, and he promised to 
introduce it, if I would collect the information necessary for 
making a speech in the House. I visited several counties 
for that purpose. And here let me pay a tribute to that fme 
old Tory gentleman, Mr. Henley, late member for this 
county. I found on the borders of Bucks and Oxon a 
number of allotments of good size, which had been let by 
him to labourers for several years. The arrangement w^as 
satisfactory to both parties, for although Mr. Henley let the 
land at the low rent of 255-. an acre, it had been previously let 



44 HISTORY OF THE ALLOTMENT SYSTEM. 

at not much more than half that amount. I saw the 
collector's book, from which it appeared that the rents were 
invariably paid. In other parishes I found miserably small 
allotments let at rents of j£^\^ ;£6, and ^8 an acre ; in some 
villages I found the people packed together as close as in 
a London court, with no gardens at all. Sir Charles Dilke 
was supplied with a number of cases where the Act was 
badly needed, and in due time he moved the second reading 
of the Bill. The Conservative Solicitor-General ridiculed the 
measure, and Sir Charles Dilke only obtained ninety votes. 
He re-introduced it a second time, with no better results, 
and as farther progress was hopeless during the existence of 
the late Parliament, the Bill was dropped. After the General 
Election of 1880, Sir Charles Dilke became a member of 
the Ministry, and Mr. Jesse Collings, one of the oldest 
friends of the Union, took the matter up. The Bill passed 
with a general chorus of approval from both sides of the 
House of Commons, and the ex-Solicitor-General no longer 
denounced it as ridiculous. The Bill then went up to the 
Lords, who of course did their best to spoil it. It may be 
that some ardent Conservative here may be inclined to say 
that I am just like Mr. Bright, who, as Lord Norton says, 
cannot even make a speech on Temperance without girding 
at the Lords. But I have good reason for the complaint. 
I was so busy at the time that I did not watch what was go- 
ing on ] but as soon as the Act was printed, I looked it over 
and could hardly recognize my own child. It was as if a 
Chinese Lord and a Red Indian Lord had acted as its foster- 
parents ; the one had cramped its feet with tight bandages, 
the other had flattened its nose with a board. 'I'he sweet 
simplicity of my Bill had disappeared, and the Lords had 
done their best to make its operation as diHicult as possible. 
I had proposed to give the labourer a cheap and easy remedy 
in the nearest county court by summoning the trustees to 



HISTORY OF THE ALLOTMENT SYSTEM. 45 

show cause why the Act should not be put in force. At 
the expense of the loss of a day's work, and an outlay of 2s. 
or 3J-., the matter would have been settled. The Lords 
struck out everything that referred to county court jurisdic- 
tion, and referred the aggrieved labourer to the Tite Barnacles 
of that abominable Circumlocution Office at Gwdyr House. 
The best of the joke was, that the Charity Commissioners 
had actually opposed the Bill ; and the very Bill which they 
opposed they were called upon to administer. If these 
gentlemen had done their duty to the poor seven years 
ago, they would have made the Allotments Extension Act 
unnecessary. I am afraid that they are not likely to do their 
duty even now. Mr. Jesse Collings wrote me only a 
few days ago, ' The real difficulty is with the Charity Com- 
missioners, who are not friendly to this Act ; they will have 
to be fought seriously ere long.' The quantity of land 
coming under the provisions of the Act amounts to nearly 
a quarter of a million acres, but even now, owing to the 
action of the Lords, we are left very much at the mercy of 
the local trustees. 

*' The tricks resorted to by some of the trustees are 
simply infamous. In some cases they have let the land on 
a long lease so as to evade the Act, in others they have, 
contrary to law, charged exorbitant rents ; in others they 
have, contrary to law, refused to let except to farm labourers, 
and sometimes only to farm labourers who are house- 
holders ; in others they have ignored the Act altogether ; 
in others they have illegally demanded half a year's rent in 
advance. In some of these cases the men have appealed 
to the Charity Commissioners in vain. So many complaints 
have flowed in to Mr. Jesse Collings that he has been com- 
pelled to issue an appeal for assistance in enabling him to 
start a temporary society called the Allotments Extension 
Association, which he calculates will be able to force the 



46 HISTORY OF THE ALLOTMENJ SYSTEM. 

hands of the Charity Commissioners and advise the men in 
the various parishes, so that in two or three years the Act 
shall be generally enforced." 

In conclusion it may perhaps be useful to 
give the main provisions of the Act : — 

Section A. All Trustees ... of lands vested ... for 
the benefit of the poor of any parish 

•' (i) Shall set apart for the purpose of this Act such field 
or other portion of the said lands as is most suitable, as 
regards distance or otherwise, for allotments, and give public 
notice, in manner directed by the Schedule of this Act, of 
the field or portion so set apart, specifying the situation and 
extent thereof, and the rent per acre or rod which they are 
ready to accept for the same when let in allotments, and the 
times and places at which applications for allotments are to 
be made. 

" (3) If the whole of the field or the portion so set apart 
is let in allotments, the Trustees shall proceed, as soon as they 
have power so to do, to set apart another field or portion of 
their lands for the purpose of this Act, and give public notice 
thereof as directed by this section, and so on until the whole 
of their lands are let in allotments, or no applications are 
received for further allotments. 

*' (5) If any of the said lands shall be found to lie at an 
inconvenient distance from the residences of any cottagers or 
labourers, it shall be lawful for the Trustees to let such lands, 
or any part thereof, for the best rent that can be procured 
tor the same, and to hire in lieu thereof for the purposes of 
this Act other land more favourably situated for allotments 
to the poor of the parish or place for whose benefit such 
lands are held in trust." 






CHAPTER III. 

THE CLERGY AS GLEBE LANDLORDS. 

** Parson do preach and tell me to pray, 
And to think of our work, and not ask more pay ; 
And to follow plough-share, and never think 
Of crazy cottage and ditch stuffs' stink — 
That Doctor do say breeds ager and chills, 
Or worse than that, the fever that kills — 
And a'bids me pay my way like a man, 
Whether I can't or whether I can ; 
And as I h'ant beef, to be thankful for bread, 
And bless the Lord it ain't turmuts instead ; 
And never envy the farmer's pig. 
For all a' lies warm, and is fed so big, 
While the missus and little 'uns grows that thin, 
^You may count their bones underneath thar skin ; 
I'm to call all I gits the ' chastening rod,' 
And look up to my betters and then thank God." 

Punch. 

In the concluding sentence of the first chapter 
I ventured to speak of the Social Destination 
of Property. This is a doctrine which it 
has often seemed to me to be specially 
incumbent upon the clergy of Christ to 
practise as well as preach. We country clergy, 
at any rate, ought not to forget that we are, in 



48 THE CLERGY AS GLEBE LANDLORDS. 



the majority of cases, if not landlords, at least 
landholders. Our numbers are estimated, I 
believe, at something like 1,200 in England 
alone. We represent, in fact, probably con- 
siderably more than one-fourth of the resident 
landowners of the country. We have then, it 
seems to me, a special duty with regard to this 
relation. Can we do nothing then, I would 
ask, in our character of Glebe Landlords, to 
mitigate one at least of the great evils arising 
from absorption of small holdings ? Would it 
not be possible for us to use the property of 
which we are trustees in such a way that we 
should once more be able to set before the 
rural labourer ''that one attainable point of 
hope," without which 1 venture to say all plans 
for his welfare, whether social, economic, or 
religious, will be in vain ? The root virtues of 
a manly character — self-reliance, self-help, inde- 
pendence, ambition — will never grow in the 
hard soil of a day labourer's life, unless they be 
first watered from the perennial spring of 
hope. To transpose the old proverb, '* While 
there is hope there is life." Let us find a 
means of implanting this principle in the bosom 
of the agricultural labourer, and we may succeed 



THE CLERGY A^ GLEBE LANDLORDS. 



49 



in changing even the dull grey monotony of his 

existence into one of — 

" Life, full life, 
Full flowered, full fruited, reared from homely earth, 
Rooted in duty, and through long calm years 
Bearing its load of healthful energies, 
Stretching its arms on all sides, fed with dews 
Of cheerful sacrifice and clouds of care." 

Let me indicate briefly, then, three practical 
directions in which I think it is open for the 
clergy to do something in this matter : — 

Apportionment of Glebe Allotinents. 

In the first place, I should consider that 
where allotments of sufficient size do not already 
exist, it is the duty of the holder of the Glebe 
to divide a portion of that land, with the 
object of accepting his labouring parishioners 
as tenants. If I may venture to quote my own 
experience, I am sure he will find few acts 
of his parochial administration upon which he 
will look back with more sincere and unmixed 
satisfaction. It will be necessary, of course, 
to protect himself by proper rules and pre- 
cautions. 

But, after all, no rules or precautions are so 
important as the precaution of securing in the 

4 



50 THE CLERGY AS GLEBE LANDLORDS. 

first place a good state of feeling between 
parson and men. 

Village Parliaments. 

I may perhaps be allowed to mention here 
one means of securing this, which I have myself 
found of the very greatest use ? When I first 
thought, some years ago, of dividing my Glebe 
land among the labourers, I happened to hear 
of certain experiments In co-operative farming 
which were being carried out at Blennerhasset, 
in Cumberland, by a brother of Sir Wilfrid 
Lawson. One feature In his scheme struck me 
as extremely original. He was in the habit of 
periodically assembling all the workers on his 
farms, for general purposes of consultation, in 
a sort of open council, which afterwards came 
to be known as the Village Parliament. The 
Idea of inviting miscellaneous criticism In this 
way was certainly droll, but It is not perhaps, 
after all, so foolish as It looks. At any rate, 
as a result, I determined to invite my labour- 
ing parishioners to meet at my house once a 
week, to talk over questions of agricultural eco- 
nomy. For several years we were accustomed 
to meet, during the winter months, at my house 



THE CLERGY AS GLEBE LANDLORDS. 51 

in this way. In the first instance, the proposed 
division of the Glebe land suggested to us 
plenty of topics for conversation. Subsequently 
subjects for discussion were found in such books 
as Mr. Brassey's *' Work and Wages," Thorn- 
ton on "Labour " and '* Peasant Proprietorship/ 
Kinnaird Edwards' *' Rural Economy," Holy- 
oake's " History of Co-operation," and Mr 
William Lawson's "Ten Years of Gentleman 
Farming," passages from which I was accus- 
tomed to read to them. 

I do not know whether the labourers have 
learnt very much from me, but I can honestly 
say that I have learnt very much from them. 
Again, there is another possible way in which 
perhaps, the country clergy might help the rural 
labourers. 

Improved System of Small Husbandry, 

Mr. Gladstone, in a very admirable speech on 
garden cultivation, which he delivered some 
years ago at Hawarden, drew attention to one 
important method by which he considered that 
the cultivators of the soil in this country might 
very materially improve their position. He re- 
peated that advice in a speech to the electors of 



52 THE CLERGY AS GLEBE LANDLORDS. 

Midlothian during his celebrated campaign in 
1 880. After describing the peasant properties of 
France, he asks, '* What do these peasant pro- 
perties mean ? They mean the small cultiva- 
tion, that is to say, the cultivation of superior 
articles on a small scale — cultivation of flowers, 
cultivation of trees, cultivation of shrubs, and 
cultivation of fruits of every kind — all that, in 
fact, which rises above the ordinary character 
of farming production, and rather approaches 
that of gardening." And he goes on to express 
a belief that a ''great deal more attention will 
have to be given than heretofore to the pro- 
duction of fruits, vegetables, and flowers, of 
all that variety of objects which are sure to find 
a market in a rich and wealthy country like 
this, but which have been confined almost ex- 
clusively to garden production."* 

* See also on this point a most excellent pamphlet, full of 
sound practical advice, on " Market Gardening for Farmers," 
by Mr. Charles Whitehead, of Maidstone, reprinted from the 
Mark Lane Express : " If the conditions of soil and climate 
are generally favourable for the successful production of 
vegetables, what has prevented farmers, and what does 
prevent farmers, from going into the business? Chiefly, it 
must be answered, the conservatism which clings so tightly 
to them, and binds them to old cuslouis and the traditions 



THE CLERGY AS GLEBE LANDLORDS, 53 



Now, there is no doubt, I should imagine, 
that the system of husbandry generally in vogue 
on labourers' allotments might be very advan- 
tageously improved in this direction. Probably 
no use to which the soil can be put is more 
profitable than that of market gardening. Un- 
fortunately any attempt at improvement in this 
direction, except, of course, in the vicinity of 
large towns, is usually considered to be useless, 
owing to the want of convenient markets. 
Now, ought this to be an insuperable difficulty ? 
In these days surely, when the railway system 
penetrates into almost every corner of the 

of mediaeval methods ; a conservatism, by the way, which 
has been somewhat modified of late by the action of foreign 
competition, and by the falling away of the scales from 
many eyes." Contrast with this " conservatism " of English 
farmers the "go-ahead " character of these same foreign 
competitors, as reported by Mr. Sewell Read and Mr. Pell 
to the Agricultural Interests Cominission two years ago : "It 
is pleasing to notice the willingness, it may be even called 
ready eigerness, with which the American farmers wejcome 
all things new. Any novelty, however revolutionary to 
existing plans and ideas, is sure to find admirers, and may 
expect a fair trial. The rapidity with which new systems 
of daily management have spread would astonish many 
English farmers, who, especially in dairy districts, are pro- 
verbially slow to change." 



54 THE CLERGY AS GLEBE LANDLORDS. 

kingdom, the question of markets is, after all, 
merely a question of organization. "^ 

Co-operative Distribution of Garden Produce. 

I would venture to suggest, therefore, that 
the question of the distribution of the produce 
of garden allotments offers a most admirable 
opening for the application of the co-operative 
principle. Would it not be possible in many- 
cases, I would ask, to associate the allotment 
tenants in some form of co-operative society, 
which should have for its object, not perhaps, 
in the first instance, the working of the allot- 
ments in common, but for making such arrange- 
ments with the Railway Companies as should 
enable them to get within reach of the best 
markets for the distribution of their produce ? 

We are only at the very beginning, as it 
appears to me, of the application of the principle 
of co-operation to agriculture. If the country 
clergy will but endeavour to help their labour- 
ing parishioners to apply the principles of 



* A very practical comment on this statement will be 
found in the account of the new market oi)ened by the 
Great Eastern Railway, given at page 155, Appendix. Cf. 
also Mr. Whitehead's pamphlet mentioned above, p. 52. 



THE CLERGY AS GLEBE LANDLORDS. 55 

co-operation to the conditions of rural life, I 
venture to think that not only will there be 
few acts of their parochial administration upon 
which they will be able to look back with more 
sincere and unmixed satisfaction, but there will 
be few also In which, in the light of another 
world, they will seem to themselves to have 
been more directly '* feeding the flock of Christ 
committed to their care." The story of self- 
denying enthusiasm and noble endeavour, 
which I shall endeavour to tell in the following 
chapters, will, I hope, do something to show how 
co-operation rightly understood Is but the 
endeavour to realise in economic life the social 
Ideal of Christianity. 



CHAPTER IV. 

CO-OPERATIVE SMALL FARMING. 

"Without attempting to predict the exact phases through 
which co-operation will pass, it can scarcely be doubted that 
the principle is so well adapted to agriculture, that it is certain 
some day to be applied to that particular branch of industry 
with the most beneficial results. . . . The progress towards 
co-operative agriculture will no doubt be slow and gradual. 
The labourers will have to advance towards it by many pre- 
liminary steps."— Rt. Hon. Henry Fawcett, M.P. 

It is always a matter of some surprise to those 
who make a study of the history of Co-operation, 
that so little progress should have been made 
in the application of the co-operative principle to 
agriculture, — a surprise which is only increased 
when it is remembered, on the one hand, that 
the earliest form of landed tenure was that of 
agricultural association through community of 
land, and, on the other, that in few undertak- 
m<>-s woukl the conditions of co-operative 
success seem to be more conspicuously present 
than in that of farming. When, therefore, in 
reading of the vast development of co-operative 
enterprise in England during the last half- 



CO-OrERATIVE SMALL FARMING. 57 

i 

century, we find that the number of co- 
operators has increased from 28 In the year 
1844 to 526,000 in the year 1880, and that the 
capital invested during that period has increased 
from ^28 to very nearly ^6,000,000, it does 
seem very discouraging to those who have been 
inclined to regard co-operation as a possible 
regenerating force in modern economic society, 
to find that, in connection with the agricultural 
classes at any rate, who above all are in such 
need of social and economic improvement, co- 
operative enterprise should seem to have made 
hardly any headway at all during the last fifty 
years. 

From time to time, co-operators themselves 
become alive to the fact as conveying some- 
what of a reproach to their energy and faith. 
At both the last annual Co-operative Con- 
gresses, prominent expression was given to 
this feeling. At Oxford last year, a very able 
and suggestive paper was read on this subject 
by Mr. Kitchin of Christ Church, now Dean 
of Winchester, in which, after showing how, 
in his opinion, co-operation might best grapple 
with the chief problems of farming, after indi- 
cating the unusual facilities for the work, and 



58 CO-OPERATIVE SMALL FARMING. 

the specially bright hopes of success in it, he 
concluded by commending the subject with its 
far-reaching consequences to the mature judg- 
ment of those who had already proved their 
courage and administrative ability by bringing 
co-operative organizations to so successful an 
issue. 

This paper was fully discussed at the time, 
and was afterwards, by resolution of the Con- 
gress, referred to the consideration of the district 
conferences. The reports of these discussions 
have from time to time appeared in the pages 
of the Co-operative News, and have no doubt 
served to create considerable inquiry on the 
part of working co-operators as to the possi- 
bilities of co-operative agriculture. 

In the concluding remarks of his inaugural 
address at this year's Co-operative Congress at 
Edinburgh, the President, the Right Hon. W. 
E. Baxter, M.P., again insisted upon the im- 
portance of co-operators giving their attention 
to the subject of co-operative agriculture. 

It is my object, however, in the present pages 
to press the importance of this subject, not only 
upon the general attention of co-operators, but 
also, as far as I may be able, upon the special 



CO-OPERATIVE SMALL FARMING. 59 

attention of agricultural labourers, who would 
themselves evidently be the class most especially 
benefited by the success of co-operative enter- 
prise in this direction. 

I am well aware of course that the back- 
ward condition of the rural labourer, as com- 
pared with other sections of the labour class, 
has often been advanced as one of the chief 
difficulties in the way of the successful applica- 
tion of the associative principle to agriculture, 
and it is true, no doubt, that his narrow school 
and social education does unfit the agricultural 
labourer to some extent for co-operative work. 
At the same time this is hardly a reason, as it 
seems to me, why co-operators, at any rate, 
who are generally somewhat proud of claiming 
that their movement is one quite as much 
for the promotion of the general well-being as 
for the protection of individual interests, should 
hesitate to encourage co-operative enterprise 
among agricultural labourers. If it is indeed 
the want of a wider social organization which 
has mainly stood in the way of the extension 
of the principles of co-operation to agriculture, 
a true appreciation of the value of the co- 
operative faith would certainly seem to suggest 



6o CO-OPERATIVE SMALL FARMING. 



that some organised effort should be made to 
meet that want. A co-operative faith implies 
a co-operative propaganda. 

Indeed, for my own part, I cannot but think 
that such propaganda Is a first necessity before 
any reality can belong to the discussion of large 
schemes for the establishment of co-operative 
farms, such as that, for example, suggested in 
the otherwise admirable paper of the Dean of 
Winchester. 

That the energy and enterprise which has 
made the success of some of the great distri- 
butive societies In the north of England is 
equal also to the organization of a successful 
co-operative farm, I have no difficulty in be- 
lieving. As Dean Kitchin truly says, " Co- 
operators have shown by the business capacity 
of their organizations that the directive power 
is already there." I cannot, however, quite so 
readily as he appears to do, bring myself to 
believe that **thc adaptation of this ability to 
the management of land is a vicre matter of 
detail." It is a matter of detail, no doubt, but 
of detail which, if the farm is to be anything 
further than a Joint-stock association, must 
depend very largely upon the spirit in which 



CO-OPERATIVE SMALL FARMING. 6i 

the working labourers of the farm are able to 
appreciate and intelligently to carry out the 
principle of co-operation. 

For this reason, therefore, I cannot but think 
that to propose in the first instance the organi- 
zation of large co-operative farms, worked 
with the capital and " engineered " (to use a 
convenient American phrase) by the business 
managers of some of the larger existing co- 
operative societies, is in reality to begin at 
the wrong end, and, moreover, entirely ignores 
the lesson which the history of co-operation 
ought to teach. The enormous success of 
distributive co-operation has been built up. 
It should never be forgotten, from very small 
beginnings, and has been a matter of slow and 
gradual growth. So also in all probability 
must it be with agriculture, if co-operative 
farming is to be equally successful. The 
twenty-eight "poor labourers" of Rochdale 
will have no doubt their agricultural after-types. 
For this reason, therefore, it seems to me 
every way better that those who are desirous 
of seeing the development of co-operative 
agriculture, should confine themselves for the 
present, at any rate, rather to the propagation 



62 CO-OPERATIVE SMALL FARMING. 

of co-operative truths among the rural classes, 
and the encouragement of such efforts on the 
part of the labourers themselves, however 
humble they may be, which would seem to be 
the natural and spontaneous result of such 
propaganda. 

In the following chapters I have endeavoured 
to give as plain and simple an account as I could 
of some of the more interesting and remarkable 
experiments in co-operative farming, which 
seem to me at all likely to furnish useful 
material, either by way of warning or of 
encouragement, for such a propaganda as that 
I have indicated. 



CHAPTER V. 

AN IRISH EXPERIMENT. 

" Siouan-wang, the King of Tshi, said to Meng-tseu, ' I have 
been told that the park of the King Weng-wang was seven 
leagues in circumference ; was that the case ? ' Meng-tseu 
answered respectfully, ' History tells us so.' The King said, 

* If so, was not its extent excessive ? ' Meng-tseu answered, 

* The people considered it too small.' The King said, 'My 
insignificance has a park only four leagues in circumference, 
and the people consider it too large ; whence this difference?' 
Meng-tseu answered, 'The park of king Weng-wang contained 
all these leagues ; but as the King had his park in common with 
the people, the people thought it small. Was that wonderful ? 
I, your servant, when I was about to cross the frontier, took 
care to inform myself of what was especially forbidden in your 
kingdom, before I dared to venture further. Your servant 
learnt that there was within your line of customs a park four 
leagues round, and that the man who killed a stag there was 
punished with death, as if he had killed a man. So that there 
is an actual pit of death of four leagues in circumference 
opened in the heart of your kingdom. The people think that 
park too great. Is that wonderful ? ' " — Confucius. 

Of all the social experiments that have yet 
been made in the direction of applying the 
principle of Associated Labour to the occu- 
pancy and tillage of the soil, the Co-operative 
Farm established fifty years ago by an Irish 



64 AN IRISH EXPERIMENT. 

landlord, Mr. Vandeleur, at Ralahine, in county 
Clare, is by far the most interesting and 
instructive. 

A Romance in Facts and Figures. 

The story of this successful and suggestive 
experiment at one time attracted much attention 
from both economists and politicians in this 
and other countries, and, had it not been 
for the premature collapse of the undertaking, 
from a cause personal to the landlord, and in 
no sense affecting the principle or merits of 
the scheme, would no doubt have become 
a standing example of the great possibilities 
that lie open for Co-operative Small Farming 
in the future. The story has lately been 
retold by Mr. E. T. Craig, the organiser and 
first secretary of the association, an old man 
now, in a little book entitled, '* The History of 
Ralahine and Co-operative Farming." It is 
published by Triibner and Co., price two 
shillings. I can strongly recommend it as a 
book of the greatest value not only to the co- 
operator, who will find it full of wise thought 
and noble sentiment on the subject of Asso- 
ciated Labour, but also to the perplexed 



AN IRISH EXPERIMENT. 65 

politician who is seeking some solution to the 
many problems, social, agrarian, political, which 
are summed up for him in the one phrase, 
" The Irish Question." The book, moreover, 
is not only most instructive, it is deeply in- 
teresting. ''If ever there was a romance in 
facts and figures," — truly enough says the Spec- 
tator, — ''it is the story of Ralahine, a fairy tale 
of political economy, by one who had been an 
eye-witness of its reality." 

Ireland Fifty Years ago. 

Ireland we have all long known as a fit 
realm enough for romance, but our direful ex- 
perience of the last few years may well have 
taught us to think that any romance there can 
possibly be to tell about Irish land must be one 
in which the bright pages would stand out 
against a very dark background indeed. And 
we shall not be wrong in such surmise. Fifty 
years ago, however, the background was even 
blacker than it is to-day. Look at this picture, 
which Mr. Craig draws of the state of Ireland 
and the Irish in the year 1830, when he first 
began to organize the Ralahine scheme : — 

" The population of Ireland amounted to about seven 

5 



66 AN IRISH EXPERIMENT. 

and a half millions. Poverty is marvellously prolific, even 
when want grows faster than food. Land in Ireland avail- 
able for tillage is limited, and as it forms the basis of 
existence, it becomes an object of great vital importance to 
obtain it, and hence competition had raised its value while 
it reduced the wages of labour and the means of subsistence. 
The food of the peasantry consisted chiefly of potatoes. In 
the south and west the crops had failed. To add to the 
evil, large landlords had begun to evict their tenants, and to 
reduce small holdings, while, owing to the want of capital 
and of confidence, tillage lands were converted into grazing 
farms, on which a herdsman and boy could supersede some 
twenty labourers and ploughmen. The rents of con-acre 
were both enormous and unfair, from the fact that the poor 
tenant supplied the manure for the potato crop, while the 
landlords took the benefit in the grain crop subsequently 
sown. Rents were demanded at ;£"8, ^lo, and in some 
cases at £i^ per acre. If the tenant could raise a sufficient 
crop of potatoes to pay the rent and sustain his family, he 
considered himself fortunate. In many cases the crops 
were taken to the market attended by the agents, and the 
proceeds handed to them in payment of rent, while the 
slave of toil returned home empty-handed, with the galling 
knowledge that the fruits of his labour were taken by 
another, who was perhaps the representative of an absentee. 
In bad seasons, famine soon became prevalent. . The 
labourer and his family under such circumstances were 
doomed to want and starvation. Peace and order were 
impossible. Coercion Bills, Arms Bills, an armed Police 
Force of 30,000 men, and a large proportion of the British 
Army might make a solitude, but that would not make 
peace, order, and contentment. Under the conditions 
indicated, many perished in silence, while thousands, alike 



AN IRISH EXPERIMENT. 67 

ignorant of the causes of their misery and of the remedy, 
banded togetlicr in the vain hope of finding a cure for their 
sorrows by striking terror into the great landlords, their 
agents, and the Government. They saw no way of life and 
existence for them, save through the meshes of crime and 
the bloody portals of force, violence, and murder. " 

Similar evidence to that of Mr. Craig is 
furnished by the ''Annual Register" of 1831, 
which bears testimony to the severity of the 
social crisis through which Ireland was then 
passing : — 

" The peasantry marched in bands through the counties, 
demanding reduction of rents and increase of wages, and 
threatening destruction to the magistrates and gentry who 
should disobey or endeavour to resist. . . . The serving of 
threatening notices, the levelling of walls, the driving off of 
cattle, the beating of herdsmen, the compulsory removal of 
tenants, the levying of contributions in money, the robbery 
of dwelling-houses, the reckless commission of murder, were 
driving the better classes of inhabitants to desert their 
houses and seek refuge in some other quarter." 

Force no Remedy. 

Such, then, was the dark and unpromising 
background upon which the first bright pages 
of the Ralahine Romance had to be written. 
While other landlords were flying in terror 
from this scene of outrage, murder, and law- 



68 AN IRISH EXPERIMENT. 

lessness, far exceeding in extent and violence 
anything of recent occurrence, and leaving the 
armed police and the English soldiers to cope 
with men upon whose hearts 

" Famine had written fiend," 

there was one Irish landlord at least brave 
enough to face the storm, and in faith that 
" force was no remedy " had the courage to set 
himself calmly to the task of seeing how far 
the principles of co-operation, which he had 
learnt from the great English Socialist, Robert 
Owen, would go towards a solution, on his own 
estate at any rate, of the Irish Land Question. 

The Ralahine Farm. 

The scene of the new social experiment was 
admirably adapted for the purpose. Ralahine 
consisted of 6i8 acres, about one-half of which 
was under tillage, with suitable farm buildings, 
and situated between the two main roads from 
Limerick to Ennis. A bog of sixty-three acres 
supplied fuel. A lake on the borders of the 
estate gave a constant and available supply 
of water power, and a small stream tlowing 
from it gave eight-horse power to a thrashing 



AA^ IRISU EXPERIMENT. 69 

mill, a skutch and saw mill, a lathe, and so 
forth. A fall of twenty-horse power was 
available at a short distance, when required 
for manufacturing purposes. 

A large building was erected by Mr. Vande- 
leur, 30 feet by 15 feet, which should be suit- 
able for a common dining-hall, with a room of 
the same size above, available for lectures, 
reading-room, or classes. Close to them he 
built a store-room, with a dormitory above. A 
few yards from and at right angles to the large 
rooms he put in course of erection six good 
cottages. Several hundred yards away stood 
the old castle of Ralahine, with lofty square 
tower and arched floors, capable of being 
temporarily adapted for the accommodation of 
those whom Mr. Vandeleur hoped to unite in 
his new system of mutual co-operation. 

The actual site for the proposed Co-operative 
Farm was in fact all that could be wished — fair 
soil of sufficient extent, good water-power, 
abundance of cheap fuel, extensive buildings, 
hard roads, nearness to two market towns. 

Irish ideas of Co-operation. 
But what of the proposed co-operators '^. 



70 AN IRISH EXPERIMENT. 

That they could not have been very different 
from the rest of their fellows, of whom I have 
just written, the following incident will, I 
think, sufficiently show 

Mr. Vandeleur's last steward had been some- 
what despotic, harsh, and severe in his treat- 
ment of the labourers on the estate. A reaper 
on one hot harvest day had paused from his 
work to get a drink of water from his can, 
whereupon the steward kicked it over, declaring 
that he would not have water there as an 
excuse for the reapers wasting their time. 
Similar acts of harshness roused a spirit of 
revenge. A midnight meeting was held in 
Cratloe Wood. The steward was condemned 
to death. Lots were drawn as to who was to 
do the foul deed. A few nights afterwards, in 
the presence of his wife, to whom he had only 
been married three months, he was shot dead 
as he was bolting his door. The assassin 
escaped, and was never brought to justice. 

Not very promising materials, one would 
think, out of which to form ideal co-operators. 
At least their present idea of associative labour 
was of a somewhat ghastly type ! 

At any rate it must be allowed that he must 



AN IRISH EXPERIMENT. 71 

have been a bold man who, with such a possi- 
ble fate before him, was ready to undertake the 
task of endeavouring to organize these ci-devant 
" Whiteboys " and " Terry-Alts" into a civil- 
ised community of co-operative farmers. 

A Lancashire Lad. 

Such a helper, however, Mr. Vandeleur was 
fortunate enough to find in Mr. Craig, a man 
not only, as we may well suppose, of rare pluck 
and courage, but one capable also of bringing 
practical skill, foresight, and perseverance to 
the intelligent application of those principles of 
co-operation in which he believed so enthusias- 
tically. He was a native of Lancashire, one 
of those " Lancashire lads," in fact, of whom 
he exclaimed soon afterwards — when on his 
first visit to Limerick he saw the neglected state 
of the river Shannon, one of the noblest rivers 
in the British Isles, with its splendid natural 
resources for water carriage, so typically left 
undeveloped by the Irish because, as they said, 
they were waiting for '' Government help " — 
'' Some Lancashire lads I know would have 
made short and cursory work of waiting for 
Government. * Hang the Government ! Why 



^2 AN IRISH EXPERIMENT. 

wait for them ? Let us co-op. and do the work 
ourselves ! ' " Lancashire was already begin- 
ning in those days to take that lead in the 
development of co-operative enterprise among 
the working classes which she has ever since 
so nobly retained (I see by the returns lately 
published in the Congress Report that there 
are in that county this year 159,478 members 
of registered co-operative societies, doing busi- 
ness to an amount of over eight millions, with 
a net profit of /^597,434), and which makes 
one hope that in this respect, even more 
perhaps than In some others, Lord Derby's 
words may be true — '' What Lancashire thinks 
to-day England will think to-morrow." 

A short tour through the part of Ireland 
where the experiment was to be tried, with the 
object of studying the character and condition of 
the people with whom he would shortly have 
to deal, soon brought Mr. Craig to Lord 
Bacon's opinion — " To allay sedition we must 
allay the makers of it." 

" The conclusions to which the relations of 
the labourer to the land and the fruits of his 
toil led me were that the causes at work were 
social and agrarian, as well as political, and that 



AN IRISH EXPERIMENT. jt, 



social amelioration, and a share in the net pro- 
fits, if any, after paying rent and the interest 
of capital, would realise a great change at once 
in the spirit and ameliorate the condition of the 
people. 

Mr. Craig lost no time in preparing a draft 
of the constitution and laws of the proposed 
association founded on these principles. This, 
after being approved by Mr. Vandeleur, was 
submitted to the members and signed. No 
alterations were found necessary during the 
experiment. Want of space prevents me from 
quoting in full the whole document. I give, 
however, sufficient, I think, to judge of the 
essential features of the scheme, and one or two 
of the more characteristic rules : — 

Laws of the Ralahine Agricultural and Manu- 
facturing Co-operative Association. 

Preamble. 

The objects of this Association are : — 

I. The acquisition of a common capital. 

II. The mutual assurance of its members against the evils 
of poverty, sickness, infirmity, and old age. 

III. The attainment of a greater share of the comforts 
of life than the working class now possess. 

IV. The mental and moral improvement of its adult 
members. 

V. The education of their children. 



74 AN IRISH EXPERIMENT. 

Basis of the Society^ &r. 

1. For the attainment of the foregoing objects the persons 
who have signed these rules agree to associate together, and 
to rent the lands, building, manufactories, machinery, etc., 
of Ralahine, from Mr. John Scott Vandeleur, according to 
" agreement," and they each of them, jointly and severally, 
bind themselves to obey the following rules, and to use 
every means in their power to cause them to be observed. 

2. That all the stock, implements of husbandry, and 
other property belong to and are the property of Mr. 
Vandeleur until the society accumulate sufficient to pay for 
them ; they then become the joint property of the society. 

* * * * 

Production, 

9. We engage that whatever talents we may individually 
possess, whether mental or muscular, agricultural, manu- 
facturing, or scientific, shall be directed to the benefit of all, 
as well by their immediate exercise in all necessary occupa- 
tions as by communicating our knowledge to each other, 
and particularly to the young. 

10. That as far as can be reduced to practice each 
individual shall assist in agricultural operations, particularly 
in harvest, it being fully understood that no individual is to 
act as steward, but all are to work. 

11. That all the youths, male or female, do engage to 
learn some useful trade, together with agriculture and 
gardening, between the ages of 9 and 17. 

12. That the committee meet every evening, to arrange 
the business for the following day. 

■* * # * 

15. That no member be expected to perform any service 
or work but such as is agreeable to his or her feelings, or 



AN IRISH EXPERIMENT. 75 

they are able to perform ; but if any member thinks that 
any other member is not usefully employing his or her time, 
it is his or her duty to report it to the committee, whose 
duty it will be to bring that member's conduct before a 
general meeting, who shall have power, if necessary, to 
expel that useless member. 

^ ^ TT *F 

Educatioji and Formation of Character. 

26. That each individual shall enjoy perfect liberty of 
conscience and freedom in the expression of opinions and 
in religious worship. 

27. That we each observe the utmost kindness, forbear- 
ance, and charity for all who may differ from us in opinions. 

29. That no gaming of any kind be practised by any 

member of the society. 

31. That no spirituous liquors of any kind, tobacco, or 

snuff be kept in the store or on the premises. 
* * a- * 

Government^ etc. 

37. That the society be governed audits business trans- 
acted by a committee of nine members, to be chosen half- 
yearly by ballot, by all the adult male and female members. 

41. That there be a general weekly meeting of the 
society ; that the treasurer's accounts be audited by the 
committee and read over to the society ; that " the Sugges- 
tion Book " be also read at this meeting. 

A memorandum of agreement was also drawn 
up between Mr. Vandeleur and Mr. Craig and 
three other members of the Association, defin- 
ing the conditions and terms of the letting of 



76 A7\r IRISH EXPERIMENT. 

the farm, and making provision for increasing 
the rate of wages and dividing profits in the 
event of the experiment being brought to a 
successful issue. The arrangement was in brief 
this. The farm was let by Mr. Vandeleur at a 
fixed rent, to be paid in fixed quantities of farm 
produce, which, at the prices ruling in 1830-31, 
would bring ^900, which included interest on 
buildings, machinery, and live stock provided 
by Mr. Vandeleur. The rent alone was ;^700. 
As the farm consisted of 618 acres, only 268 
of which were under tillage, this rent was a 
very high one — a fact which was acknowledged 
by the landlord. All profits, after payment of 
rent and interest, belonged to the members, 
divisible at the end of the year, if desired. 

It will be seen that the method of paying 
the rent (I quote again Mr. Craig's own words) 
differed from the old and accustomed methods. 
The prices ruling the Limerick markets in 
1830-31 were taken as standard prices during 
the existence of the Association, for the six 
articles In which rent was paid, and it was felt 
to be just, and gave satisfaction to both land- 
lord and tenants. If the produce of the farm 
had increased, or say doubled temporarily by 



AN IRISH EXPERIMENT. y-j 

the effect of an exceptional season, or per- 
manently by Improvements on the part of the 
members, the Society would have appropriated 
the difference. In the case of permanent 
improvements, the landlord would of course 
have been benefited by an increased value of 
the property. In either case the increase would 
have arisen from causes beyond the control and 
quite independently of the landlord. It would 
have arisen either from increased industry, care, 
and skill, improved mode of tillage, increase of 
the acreage under cultivation, or from an 
unusually favourable action of nature's laws, 
effecting a greater absorption of the various 
elements of the earth and the atmosphere, 
which go to form plant life. The proprietor 
would not have supplied this extra industry, 
these improved methods or extra forces In 
nature's laws. . . . Under the arrangement 
made with the proprleter, the society had the 
full benefit of the skill. Industry, and enterprise 
of its members, and had the advantage of good 
seasons; while, on the other hand, the landlord 
reaped the advantage of any advance in market 
prices which In course of time would result 
from increased demand. Had the Society 



78 AN IRISH EXPERIMENT. 

neglected the proper cultivation of the land, it 
would have risked having no surplus to divide 
among the members, and have been liable to 
risk the loss of its occupancy. 

The Old and the New System, 

Such then in effect are the main features 
of the Ralahine Scheme. The principles (as 
enunciated above by Mr. Craig) upon which 
'' The New System," as it soon came to be 
generally called, was to be worked, will doubt- 
less strike many of my readers as practically 
condemned in advance by the fact that they 
are entirely contrary to all the recorded canons 
of orthodox Political Economy. Well, I am 
very sorry — I cannot help it ; but I am tempted 
to say, *' So much the worse for the orthodox 
Political Economy." Like many other forms 
of orthodoxy, the stress of nineteenth century 
human needs and life may have to teach even 
the '* Science of Wealth " some new dogmas — 
among the chief of which I trust will be this, 
" In the last resort the question is not about 
wealth but about men." 

What the relations of the landlord, the tenant 
farmer, and the labourer, both in Ireland and 



AN IRISH EXPERIMENT. 79 

elsewhere, under the '' old system " of competi- 
tive selfishness, have been, all the world knows. 
What those relations might become for land- 
lord, tenant farmer, and labourer, both in 
Ireland and elsewhere, under the ''new system" 
of mutual co-operation, the issue of the Ralahine 
scheme, may, I trust, demonstrate. 



CHAPTER VI. 

THE NEW SYSTEMITES. 

" Of old things all are over old, 

Of good things none are good enough ; 
Let's try if we can help to mould 
A happier world of better stuff." 

Mr. Craig, " the Lancashire lad who had come 
to teach Irish labourers how to co-op. and 
do for themselves," by no means found every- 
thing plain sailing, we may well suppose, w^hen 
he set himself to put into operation the 
scheme of co-operation which I described in the 
last chapter. The labourers on the estate 
were discontented, moody, and suspicious, and 
at first Mr. Craig's appearance among them 
only tended to increase their want of con- 
fidence. They regarded him merely as a " new 
steward." He was a stranger, moreover, and 
a " Sassenach." 

" Being the only Saxon in that part of 
Ireland," he says, "and arriving while the 
people were in a state of wild frenzy of 



THE NEW SYSTEMITES. 8i 

indlcrnation afrainst their forced exclusion from 
the soil, they naturally concluded that as 
traditionally all Sassenachs were incapable of 
dealing fairly and justly towards Irishmen, I 
should secretly sympathise with the landlords 
and the police authorities. Their prejudices 
and suspicions led them to suspect me as likely 
to betray them by obtaining the name of the 
man who had murdered the steward." 

Irish Humour. 

On one occasion he was cautioned not to 
return to his lodgings by the same road as that 
by which he left if detained after sunset. On 
another, he was struck with a stone ; and on yet 
another, he was presented with a sketch of a 
skull and cross-bones and a rudely-drawn coffin, 
with an intimation that they intended to put 
him to bed under the "daisy-quilt." Altogether 
he had a somewhat unpleasant time of it. But 
he never lost heart ; he had faith in the princi- 
ples of the " new system " which he had come 
to establish, and he was not to be disheartened 
at the outset by difficulties and obstacles which 
he had partly foreseen. 

He set himself accordingly to study the 

6 



82 THE NEW SYSTEMITES. 

character of the people in order that he might 
learn how to help them. He was not long in 
discovering that there w^as much that was very 
lovable about the Irish people. 

" Kindly sympathy, tenderness, and hospi- 
tality," he says, '' are marked characteristics of 
the native Irish. On entering the cabins of 
the district I found the manners of the people 
naturally easy at receiving a stranger. In 
England if a person enters a house or a cottage 
where he is unknown he is received with a 
stare of surprise and a scrutinizing gaze of 
doubt before he feels at ease. In the south of 
Ireland if the stranger goes into a cabin where 
he is unknown, he will be received with 'Caed 
mille failthe ' — a 'hundred thousand welcomes,' 
or ' God save you kindly,' in return for the 
salutation of ' God save all here.' " 

Mr. Craig's desire to return these kindly 
greetings in the same language in which they 
were uttered almost led him on one occasion 
into a somewhat unpleasant experience of the 
truth of the old adage that — 

'* A little learning is a dangerous thing." 
He had requested one of the more intelligent 



THE NEW SYSTEMITES. 83 



of the Ralahlne labourers to teach him the true 
Irish form of salutation in answer to the kindly 
wayside greeting of "God be with you," and 
was instructed by his humorous, but as the 
sequel turned out rather malicious tutor to 
reply, " Tharah ma dhoel ! " Here is an 
account of the incident — 

" When a stranger addressed me with * Dea vaha,' I replied 
* Tharah ma dhoel ! ' If another said, ' Peace be with you,' 
I still replied, ' Tharah ma dhoel ! ' I observed that my 
civilities had a somewhat puzzling effect on the passers by 
the way. It occurred to me that I was too hurried or too 
indistinct. My next experiment, however, was a critical one. 
The wayfarer was a tall, sturdy son of the soil, with a long- 
tailed frieze coat, who carried a stout blackthorn stick or 
shillelah. He gave the usual civil recognition, and I promptly 
replied — ' Tharah ma dhoel ! ' My reply seemed electrical - 
The fellow stood stock still, and by a clever jerk he threw his 
shillelah up in the air and caught it in the middle, and then 
giving it a twirl, he said — ' Say that agin, say that agin, and 
I'll lay ye in the turf-pit ! ' " 

After this experience Mr. Craig thought it 
well to get a literal English translation of his 
Irish salutation, and finding that "Tharah ma 
dhoel ! " in Irish means "Go to the devil ! " he 
wisely changed his tutor for one less clever but 
more frank. 



84 THE NEW SYSTEMITES. 



Progress of the Association. 

During this time the various buildings before 
mentioned were rapidly approaching completion. 
On the I St of November, 1831, everything was 
ready for a start. Accordingly the whole of 
the labourers and artizans on the estate and 
some living in the immediate neighbourhood 
were assembled, to the number of about forty, 
and- the scheme of the proposed Association 
was fully explained. Mr. Craig, however, 
perceiving some uneasiness of feeling on the 
very threshold as to who were to compose the 
society, and believing that he himself was still 
i-regarded with suspicion by some, proposed that 
the election of the members and the officers 
of the Association should be by the ballot of 
the men themselves. This plan was adopted. 
From that moment the success of the scheme 
may be said to have been assured. 

The numbers admitted at this first ballot 



were 



Adult single men . . . . 21 

Married men ...... 7 



28 



Single women ...... 5 

Married women ..... 7 

— 12 

Total .... 40 



THE NEW SYSTEMITES. 85 

Orphans under i 7 years of age — 

Boys ....... 4 

Girls ....... 3 

Infants ....... 5 

— 12 

Total (with adults) . 52 

The total number afterwards increased to 81. 

RalaJiinc awakens Hope. 

In less than two months from this time the 
Association was in complete and satisfactory 
working order, and the comfort, freedom, and 
industry of the members soon began to attract 
general attention not only in county Clare, but 
in the whole of that part of Ireland. The ''new 
system " was the talk of the people at their 
places of meeting far and wide. It was hoped 
that other landlords would imitate the excellent 
example of Mr. Vandeleur, especially as his 
example was one profitable to himself as well as 
calculated to produce peace and contentment in 
disturbed Ireland. It was this feeling and the 
evident wish for the continued success of Rala- 
hine that caused the murders and agrarian 
outrages to cease in that part of the country. 
They did not occur again on the Ralahine 
property for more than thirty years afterwards 



86 THE NEW SYSTE MITES. 

The '' old system," however, has again produced 
the old fruits, and under the Coercion Act of 
1 88 1 county Clare once more became a pro- 
claimed district. 

-^ The following testimony to the success of 
the undei"taking was given by Mr. Finch in 
evidence before a Commission of the House 
of Commons in 1834 : — 

*' I saw an agricultural institution in Ireland last year in 
county Clare, all the arrangements and laws of which are so 
excellent, and point out so clearly the certain means of re- 
moving immediately the ignorance, mendicity, pauperism, 
drunkenness, and crime that exist in both countries, without 
any extra outlay of capital or interference with existing 
institutions, that I am determined to devote a considerable 
portion of my time to the promulgation of them. They are 
most important to landholders." 

A fair idea of the method and operations of 
the Society will be gained from the following 
statistics : — 

Abstract of Labour Sheet for Week ending 
January 14, 1832. 

Farm. £ s. d. 

Carting out and mixing compost manure i i 6 
Ploughing in Granapan and Calf Field . o 13 4 
Washing and steaming potatoes . .060 
Threshing & preparing wheat for market, o 18 o 
Conveying wheat to Limerick . .0108 
Pulling and drawing in turnips . .080 



THE NEW SVSTEMITES. 



37 



Abstract of Labour Sheet {continued) 


£ 


s. 


d. 


Trenching in wheat 







9 





Attending and foddering cattle 







16 





Carpenter's labour on farm . 







7 


4 


Smith's ditto 







4 


8 


Herding stock 







5 





Dairy .... 







5 





Manufacturing wool into frieze 







3 


2 


Poultry .... 







2 


6 


Sundries to farm 







2 





Attending and feeding pigs . 







4 





Superintendence, education, and i 


iccounts 





8 







7 


4 


2 


Family. 










Attending dining-rooms 


, , 





2 


6 


Steaming potatoes and other ve^ 


fetables 





2 





Attendance on dormitories . 







I 


8 


Sewing and repairing beds . 










10 


Washing clothes . 







5 





Infant schoolmistress . 







2 


6 


Sundries to family 







I 


2 







15 


8 


Improvements. 










Carpenter's labour 







10 


8 


Smith's ditto 







9 





Attending Slater . 







2 





Storekeepers 







16 





Clerk of Accounts 


. £ 





6 


8 




2 


4 


4 


Total 


10 


4 


2 



88 



THE NEW SYSTEMITES. 



By reference to the ledger account of the 
same week it appears that the consumption of 
produce for the entire community (50 adults 
and 1 7 children) was for that week as follows : — 



Potatoes, 243 stone 
Milk, 202 quarts 
Butter, 1 3I lb. . 
Mutton, 9I lb. 
Eggs, 32 . 
Fuel . 

Lodgings for single members and rent of 
Cottages for married ditto 



206 
16 10 
9 2 

3 

o 

o 



o 10 



Balance for clothing, etc., and for savings 6 3 



;^io 4 



2 
8 

7i' 



o 1 14 



2.1 



Results of the Experiment. 

Thus it appears that the payments made for 
labour during this week amounted to ^104.$". 2d., 
but owing to the superiority of the associative 
arrangements over the isolated and competitive 
system, the Association had a market on the 
spot for a considerable proportion of their own 
produce, and thus returned to the store for 
articles consumed nearly one-half of the drafts 



THE NEW SYSTEMITES. 89 



of the members, on account of labour, which 
were on the same scale as the wages of the 
neighbourhood (farm labourers, Zd. per day ; 
ploughmen, having care of two horses, \od. ; 
herdsmen, i^. ; blacksmiths, i^-. d^d. ; carpenters, 
Ks". \d. ; women field labourers, 5/7^.). There 
thus remained a sum in the hands of the fifty 
labourers of ^6 2s. ^\d. for clothing and other 
expenditure and savings. Roughly speaking, 
therefore, it will be seen from a comparison of 
these statistics that the annual income of a 
member of the Ralahine Association, which at 
the ordinary rate of wages in the district would 
only amount to a little over ^10, was increased 
to something like ^16, or more than 50 per 
cent., by the adoption of the co-operative prin- 
ciple. To these material advantages we must 
add the great social and moral advantages 
which arose from the arrangements of the 
Associated Home. As already stated, there 
was a common dining hall, 30 ft. by 15 ft., for 
the accommodation of the single members, and 
such of the married as preferred public to 
private meals, thus saving the labour of cooking 
in their cottages. Over these rooms were two 
large dormitories for the girls and unmarried 



90 2 HE NEW SYSTEMITES. 

women. One of the women had charge of 
and kept the dormitories in order, and another 
attended to the committee, lecture, and dining- 
rooms. The washing and cooking being done 
in proper places away from the dwellings, and 
the children taken care of in the schools, the 
married women were enabled to perform their 
day's labour for the Society and to keep their 
cottages clean and neat with very little labour. 
As to the sanitary result of this mode of life, it 
is a remarkable fact that during the entire exist- 
ence of the Ralahine Association there was not 
a single day's illness among the members, 
although great numbers outside the community 
suffered from fever, whilst the mortality from 
cholera in Limerick and the neighbourhood was 
very great. Much, however, as one is tempted 
to linger on these various benefits, natural and 
social, which were the direct result of the co- 
operative principle, I must hasten the story to 
a conclusion. The last act before the final 
catastrophe is thus summed up by Mr. Craig : — 

" The members were full of satisfaction with the present 
and hopeful as to the future. The harvest was a splendid 
one. The new (reclaimed) land of twenty acres had yielded 
an ample return for their extra labour, which had been the 



THE NEW SYSTEAIITES. 91 

means of adding to our tillage land without increasing the 
rent. Six new dwellings had been erected by our own 
labour. It was also expected that the anticipated surplus 
would add twopence a day to the wages of labourers receiv- 
ing 8^., and one penny to women's wages, being an addition 
of one-fourth in one case and one-fifth in the other. These 
advantages were in addition to those secured by wages, 
such as a second suit of Sunday clothes, while their children 
were clothed, fed, and well educated out of the common 
fund of the Society, and all of them had labour notes in 
reserve. Beyond these acquisitions and advantages the 
Association had, by their combined labour and care, pro- 
duced and delivered to the landlord, as rent and interest, 
for the land, stock, buildings, and machinery, the following 
quantities of produce : — 



46,400 stones of wheat at is. 6d. per stone 
3,840 stones of barley at 10^. per stone 
480 stones of oats at 10^. per stone 
70 cwt. of beef at 40^. per cwt. 
30 cwt. of pork at 405-. per cwt. 
10 cwt. of butter at 8oj. per cwt. . 



£ 

480 

160 
20 

140 
60 
40 

^900 



"These great results had been realised within three 
years at Ralahine, and others, with the right men, might 
follow our example. Leaders and organisers, sufficiently 
enlightened as to the principles involved in the new system 
or science of society, with all the higher ' resources of 
civiHzation,' could call into existence similar associations 
in a short time, and establish them in every county of 
Ireland, and what a wondrous change would be seen in the 



92 THE NEW SYSTEMITES. 

green isle of the ocean ! As it has been truly said, if our 
system had been allowed to continue, its example might 
have helped to make Ireland a paradise of peace." 

The Fmal Catastrophe. 

Just at the moment, however, when the 
experiment had become successful beyond all 
expectation, all the high hopes for the future of 
the little community were suddenly dashed to 
the ground by the startling Intelligence of their 
founders absolute ruin and bankruptcy. Mr. 
Vandeleur, It appears, though a high-minded 
and benevolent man, was disastrously addicted 
to gambling. At his club In Dublin he Indulged 
this passion to the extent of sacrificing to It 
everything he possessed In the world. His 
total ruin fell on the happy society of Co- 
operators at Ralahlne with the effect of a 
thunderbolt. A distant relative of Mr. Van- 
deleur, a banker at Limerick, through some 
technical point In the law, took advantage of 
the President's position, in connection with the 
Society as a manufacturing association and a 
trading store, to obtain a fiat of bankruptcy 
against the estate. As to the co-operative 
4iiembers of the Association themselves — 
" The world was not theirs, nor the world's law." 



THE NEW SYSTEMITES. 93 

Mr. Gladstone's Land Bill, with its recogni- 
tion of the justice of tenant-right, was still in 
the far future. The members were held to 
be common labourers, with no rights or claims 
for Improvements, as all they had created and 
added to the estate belonged to the landlord 
and his creditors. The original ''agreement" 
was treated by the lawyers as so much waste 
paper. In the eye of the law, I suppose, they 
were right. But It was robbery nevertheless ! 
The members had paid their rent, yet they 
were remorselessly evicted. They had no 
remedy. Ruin came upon them suddenly, and 
social co-operation at Ralahine was at an end. 

Short-lived, however, as was this Irish ex- 
periment, It has put on record a valuable 
experience as to the possible results of the 
application of the co-operative principles to 
agriculture, some of the lessons of which, both 
by way of warning and encouragement, I shall 
endeavour to summarise in the next chapter. 



CHAPTER VII. 

LESSONS OF 7 HE R ALANINE EXPERIMENT. 



" If each to each be all he can, 
A very God is man to man." 



CiECILIUS. 



There are one or two questions, mainly, 
perhaps, in the tone of objection, which will, 
I think, naturally suggest themselves to any 
practical man who may have taken the trouble 
to follow the story of the remarkable success, 
both social and economical, of the Co-operative 
Farm established by Mr. Vandeleur at Rala- 
hlne. 

The first and most obvious question will, I 
think, be this: — If, as you say, the adoption 
of the new principle of profit-sharing on the 
part of Labour with Capital on the Ralahlne 
estate was found to work such wonders, not 
only with regard to the productive results of the 
farm, but also with regard to the social relations 
both of the labourers with one another and with 
their landlord, how does It come about that 



J HE RALAHINE EXPERIMEN2. 95 

during the fifty years that have elapsed since 
then no Irish landlord has been either public- 
spirited enough or far-seeing enough to follow 
Mr. Vandeleur's lead ? 

Agricultural Conservatism. 

I am afraid the answer to that question which 
commends itself to my mind is not one which is 
very complimentary to the Irish landlord. For 
I cannot help feeling that the chief reason why 
the "new system" should have been so little 
productive of other experiments in the same 
direction is to be found simply in the fact that 
it was a ;2^zc^system that was proposed for imita- 
tion. After all, perhaps, it is well to remember 
that it is not only landlords, either in Ireland or 
elsewhere, who dislike '' new methods.""* The 

* The following extract from the evidence of Mr. Row- 
landson (the Liberal tenant-farmer candidate for the North 
Riding last year) before the Duke of Richmond's Commis- 
sion will be interesting in this connection. 

" ' If you consider that an objectionable system, why do 
you not change it in regard to your own tenant, to whom 
you are in the relation of a landlord ? ' — ' I should be very 
glad to do so as soon as a general system of that kind is 
adopted.' 

" ' If it is right and proper and fair to the people of the 
neighbourhood, why should you wait until it is the general 



96 THE R ALANINE EXPERIMENT. 

fact is that most of us are by nature the child- 
dren of custom — constitutional conservatives by 
heredity. Liberalism, after all, the desire for 
improvement and progress, is evidently a "state 
of grace," and a state of grace moreover which 
rural environment seems especially unsuited to 
foster or encourage. Not, of course, that I would 
for a moment seem to imply that every territorial 
Conservative is quite so hopeless in this respect 
as the old squire of whom George Eliot tells us, 
whose whole political and economical creed was 
summed up in the words '' Whatever is, is bad, 
and any change is likely to be worse ; " but at 
the same time one cannot help feeling that 
few things are so disturbing to the rural mind 
as criticism of the old customs, and that, quite 
apart from the question as to whether the 
customs criticised are good or bad. The sort 

system of the neighbourhood? ' — * I suppose that if L adopted 
a system like that in the neighbourhood, I should be some- 
thing like a black sheep among the flock, but I should be 
quite willing to adopt it if it were generally adopted through- 
out the neighbourhood.' 

•" P>ut why is it necessary to adopt it generally in the 
neighbourhood, and not in every individual case?' — 'Your 
Grace will be aware that there is always an aversion to a 
person adopting a new principle, especially in a small and 
simple case like mine.' " 



THE RALAHINE EXPERIMENT. 97 

of hcsiuition expressed in the lines of Clough 
is, I take it, a far too common attitude of mind 
in this respect — 

" Old things need not be therefore true, 
O brother men. nor yet the new ; 
Ah, still awhile the old thought retain, 
And yet consider it again." 

If, however, I can only hope that the story I 
have endeavoured to relate would Induce even 
one or two of my readers to "consider" this old 
experiment at Ralahlne " again," I shall be 
amply satisfied. 

There are two other questions of a practical 
character that are likely to occur. 

I. It may be said, still mainly by way of 
objection, "Is this so-called 'new system' 
anything more than a device for transferring 
wealth from one body of men to another, from 
the landlord, that Is to say, to the labourer, and 
thereby enriching the latter at the expense 
of the former, by the simple expedient of 
depriving him of a portion of his legitimate 
earnings to distribute It amongst his em- 
ployes ? " 

To this I would reply. Certainly not ! The 
principle of Participation In Profits is by no 

7 



98 THE R ALANINE EXPERIMENT. 

means a mere philanthropic device for trans- 
ferring the property of the rich to the poor, 
but is, in fact, a method spontaneously capable 
of realising additional profits, and thereby of 
actually creating the fund which It proposes to 
divide. 

This point Is Important. Let me adduce one 
or two reasons and facts In its support. 

Stirnulus of Profit-sharing Principle. 

And, first, there is no more common assertion 
I think It will be generally acknowledged, on 
the part of the farmers w^hen discussing the 
capabilities of the agricultural labourer, than 
this — that the same man, in his employer's field 
and in his own garden or allotment, presents 
two surprisingly different standards of activity. 
No doubt the assertion is true ; but the reason 
is obvious. In the former case there Is the 
deadening certainty that no additional effort 
will bring additional wage ; and in the second 
case there is the enlivening hope that every 
stroke of efficient labour will bring with it its 
appropriate reward. Hence it Is ])laln that 
fixed wages tend to produce a minimum 
standard of work, whereas the stimulus of 



THE RALAinXE EXPERIMENT. 99 

personal interest as inevitably tends to a 
maximum standard. Now the principle of 
profit-sharing adopted at Ralahine manifestly 
supplied such a stimulus. Take this fact in 
illustration of the argument. A certain visitor 
to Ralahine on one occasion happened to find 
one of the members of the Association at work 
a7id alone, under the following circumstances : — 
The watercourse which supplied the power 
for the threshing machine, as it left the lake 
on the estate, passed under the old mail road 
from Limerick to Ennis, and near the tunnel 
the masonry had given way and obstructed the 
flow of the stream. The visitor was surprised 
to find one of the members standing up to his 
middle in the water, repairing the wall, and 
entered into conversation with him to the 
following effect : — 

Visitor, Are you working by yourself? 

Member. Yes, sir. 

V, Where is your steward ? 

M. We have no steward. 

V. Who sent you, then, to this kind of work '^ 

M. The committee. 

V. What committee ? Who are the com- 
mittee ? 



100 THE RALAHINE EXPERIMENT. 



M Some of the members, sir 

V What members do you mean ? 

M. The members of the New System — 
ploughmen and labourers. 

The fact was, as another of the labourers 
once said to Mr. Finch, another visitor to the 
establishment, " We formerly had no interest 
either in doing a great deal of work, doing 
it well, or in suggesting improvements, as all 
the advantage and all the praise were given to 
a tyrannical taskmaster, for his attention and 
watchfulness. We were looked upon merely 
as machines, and his business was to keep us 
in motion ; for this reason it took the time of 
three or four of us to watch him, and when he 
was fairly out of sight, you may depend we 
did not hurt ourselves with too much labour. 
But now that our interest and our duty are 
made to be the same we do not need any 
steward at all." 

Here then is the answer to that first question 
Improved work, spontaneously given, brings 
with it, in general, increased production, better 
quality, less waste and diminution in the cost 
of superintendence. This means, of course, 
enhanced profits. The princi[)le of participa- 



TirE RALAIIINE EXPERIMENT. loi 



tion thus rests on a firm economical basis — viz., 
the creation by the more efficient labour called 
forth under its influence of new profits which 
do not accrue under remuneration by fixed 
wages only. 

II. Can agricultural labourers be induced 
by the prospect which participation offers to 
put forth the sustained exertions necessary to 
secure Its benefits .^ 

The two last chapters have already in efi^ect 
answered this question. I may add, however, 
this additional testimony from Mr. Craig : — 

" At harvest-time the whole Society would voluntarily 
work longer than the time specified, and I have seen the 
whole body occasionally at these seasons' act with such 
energy and accomplish such great results by their united 
exertions that each and all seemed as if fired by a wild, 
enthusiastic determination to achieve some glorious enter- 
prise — and that, too, without any additional stimulant 
administered to them in the shape of any pecuniary 
reward." 

Lessons of Encouragement . 

So much then by way of reply to possible 
objections. As to the lessons of encouragement 
to be learnt from this experiment, they may, I 
think, be briefly summarised as follows : — 

I. I7tcreased Stability of Relations between 



102 THE RALAHINE EXPERIMENT, 

Capital and Labour. — The verdict of the Rala- 
hine labourers themselves on this head was 
given in a testimonial to Mr. Craig at the close 
of the undertaking. They wrote : — 

"We, the undersigned, have experienced for the last 
two years contentment, peace, and happiness under the 
arrangements introduced by Mr. Vandeleur and Mr. C. T. 
Craig. At the commencement we were opposed to the 
plans proposed by them ; but, on their introduction, we 
found our condition improved, our w-ants more regularly 
attended to, and our feelings towards each other were at 
once entirely changed from jealousy, hatred, and revenge, 
to confidence, friendship, and forbearance." 

2. The Beneficial Educational Effects oj 
Corporate Opinion. — In illustration of this point 
let me give two brief quotations from Mr. 
Craig's book : — 

" The weekly meetings had the happy result of interesting 
the members in the proceedings of the committee and in 
the success of the new system. The views of the com- 
mittee recorded and read from the ' Suggestion Book ' 
were discussed, and the practical value of certain methods 
of dealing with the land were also discussed, and formed 
an excellent basis for the educational training of the people 
and the formation of correct notions and higher phases of 
character than is possil)le with the usual isolated methods. 

"There were at first two or three fellows inclined to be 
idle, and they were cured in the way wild elephants are 
tamed. The committee who knew their characters fixed 



THE RALAHINE EXPERIMENT. lo 



their labour, and ai)pointed one of these idlers to work 
between two others wlio were industrious — at digging, for 
instance ; he was ol)liged to keep up vith them, or he 
became the subject of laughter and ridicule to the whole 
society. Tiiis was wliat no man co.ild stand." 

3. The Preservation of Property and avoid- 
ance of IVaste : — 

''During the winter of 1832, a hunted fox crossed the 
mill water-course near the rickyard, and took across the 
orchard, and over a 70-acre field of wheat in the highest 
tilth of any land upon the estate. The mounted huntsmen, 
— young squires, farmers, and tradesmen, — to keep well up 
with the hounds on the wheat-field, would have to pass 
through the farmyard, but they found that by a sudden 
and mutual impulse the large high gates of the farmyard 
had been locked against them by the 'new systemites.' 
Many of the huntsmen seemed perfectly astounded at the 
daring and ' impudence ' of these men. The incident 
shows that the new system had converted these once indif- 
ferent or careless servants into prudent conservators of the 
property under their care." 

Again continues Mr. Craig : — 

" Before the Society was established the labourers con 
ceived their own interest opposed to that of their employers, 
and would attend to nothing beyond their appointments 
fur the passing moments. . . . They conceived it to be 
their interest to encourage clandestinely the destruction of 
property, believing that it would create a greater demand 
for their labour. But after the Society commenced this 
order of things was reversed. A single potato was by 



104 THE RALAHINE EXPERIMENT. 

many of them reluctantly wasted, for they found that the 
conservation of property was the saving of their own labour. 
Thus the same faculty of mind — self-interest —produced 
opposite results when surrounded by opposite controlling 
circumstances." 

4. TJie refining Power of the Principle of 
Social SynipatJiy : — 

."A report reached Ralahine that the crops of a poor 
widow, who Tiad lost her husband by fever or cholera, 
would be lost in consequence of the death of him who had 
sown but was not there to reap, and the absence of means 
to pay for reapers. On the Sunday following all the young 
men of the community took their sickles and cheerfully 
travelled to the desolate home, cut the poor widow's wheat, 
and harvested her crop free of all cost. This benevolence 
was shown in other similar cases. Had the members been 
in an isolated position they could not have done this 
generous work of charity, and it serves to illustrate the 
refining and elevating tendency of the principle of social 
sympathy arising and co-extending with the humanising 
influence of the new system." 

5. Encouragement of thrift by the direct 
p7'ovision in the present of a lucrative invest- 
ment for savings. 

6. Consequent decrease of pauperism. 

7. Increase of the true spirit of manly inde- 
pendence and self-respect, owing to the conscious- 
ness on the part of the participating woi'kman 
that he is no longer regarded as a mere pro- 



THE R ALANINE EXPERIMENT. 105 

ditctivc i)iacJiinL\ but as a Jmman beino havino- 
aims and interests identical in kind with those 
of his employer. 

8. Direct advantages to the conswning public 
in the increase of genuine ivork and ttpright 
dealing, wJiich is always the result of the cor- 
porate as opposed to the competitive spirit of 

trade workmanship. 

Quotations In illustration of all these con- 
siderations might easily be given from Mr. 
Craig's pages. 

9. The direct promotion of triie religion, in- 
asmuch as a system which takes for its root- 
doctrine — '' Society exists only for the sake of 
the individuals who compose it, not m^ei^ely to 
further the accwmtlation of capital'' — and for 

its watchword, ' ' Htmian progress and well-being 
through self-sacrifice and association,'' cannot 
but be doing something to realise on earth that 
" Kingdom of God and His righteottsness" which 
Christ came to reveal. 

" Co-operation will teach men that God's 
moral law is as irrevocable as His physical 
law — that it is not the law of ' living by 
getting,' whose motto Is ' Every man for him- 
self,' but that It Is the law of 'living by 



io6 THE RALAHINE EXPERIMENT. 

giving,' whose motto is, ' Each for all, and all 
for each,' and that enlightened self-interest can 
be attained only by the path of self-sacrifice. 
In a word, it will teach them that the Sermon 
on the Mount is not Utopian, but that its 
Divine command is true to the very letter, 
' Give, and it shall be given unto you ; good 
measure, pressed down, and shaken together, 
and running over, shall men give into your 
bosom.' The golden rule alone will bring the 
golden age, and the Lord's Prayer will become 
a reality when we see men uniting to give 
generally to thos^ around them the advantages 
which they seek to secure personally for them- 
selves. This simple rule will bring the Reign 
of Righteousness ; daily bread will be secured 
to the daily toiler ; God's Kingdom will come 
as we His children learn to develop it, and 
His Will be done on earth even as it is done 
in Heaven, when we learn to obey it."* 



* Lecture by Miss Mary Hart on " Ralahine." 



CHAPTER VIII. 

THE CO-OPERATIVE FARMS AT ASSINGTON 
AND BRAMTON-BRYANT. 

"True wealth, as Carlyle somewhere says, consists in the 
abundance, not of the things which you possess, but of those 
which you take an interest in, and there are few English 
villages in which the raw material of such wealth does not 
abound for owners of the soil, capable of taking as much 
pride in the men as in the cattle that help to till it, and 
willing to learn from Mr. Gurdon one of the ways in which, 
with little trouble and no risk, the material may be suitably 
fashioned." — W. T. Thornton : On Labour. 

A YEAR or two before the commencement 
of the experiment at Ralahlne, and fourteen 
years before the first enrolment of the Roch- 
dale Pioneers, Mr. Gurdon, of Assington 
Hall, in Suffolk, came to conceive the idea 
of establishing a Co-operative Farm on his 
estate. During the fifty years which have 
elapsed since that time, the story of the 
Assington Co-operative Farms has often been 
told. Mr. Gurdon himself gave an account of 
them at the Social Science Congress at York 
in 1864, which is published in the " Transac- 



io8 CO-OPERATIVE FARMS, ETC. 

tions " of the Association for that year. 
Perhaps, however, the fullest and most inter- 
esting narrative is that given by the present 
Bishop of Manchester, in his Report, as 
assistant commissioner, on the Agricultural 
Commission in 1867. I cannot do better, I 
am sure, than quote his words in full : — 

"In the year 1830, fourteen years, therefore, before the 
commencement of the enterprise of the Rochdale Pioneers, 
which has attained such gigantic proportions, the idea 
suggested itself to a Suffolk squire that he would attempt 
to apply, by way of experiment, the principle of co-opera- 
tion or co-partnership to a farm. Selecting 60 acres of 
land of medium quality, furnished with a rough but not 
unsuitable homestead, he formed his little company of 
shareholders, all of them taken from the class of farm 
labourers, to which he gave the name of The Assington 
Co-oi)erative Agricultural Society. The number of the 
original shareholders was 15, who put ^^3 a-piece into the 
concern, by way of subscribed capital ; the landlord, to 
give his bantling a chance of life, liberally advanced to the 
co-operators the sum of ^400, without interest, on loan.* 
The society has grown and prospered. The occupation 
has been increased from 60 acres to 130 ; the number of 
shareholders has been enlarged from 15 to 21. The 
present value of the shares, as the bailiff told me, is * all of 
^50.' All years have not been equally remunerative, but 

* The capital was below the ordinary estimate per acre ; 
but seems to have been sufficient to keep the land in good 
heart and cultivate it profitably. 



CO-OPERATIVE FARMS, ETC. 109 

there lias not been one since the concern started without 
some little matter to divide. The company have repaid 
the landlord all the borrowed money, and all the stock and 
implements on the farm are now their own. The stock 
consists of six horses, four cows, no sheep, and from 30 
to 40 pigs. The rent of the land is ^^200 a year, the 
company paying tithe, rates, and taxes. The farm is held 
on a fourteen years' lease, which is on the point of being 
renewed. The land is farmed on the four-course system of 
husbandry, and ordinarily employs five men and two or 
three boys. The members are not bound to work upon 
the farm, which, indeed, could not find employment for all; 
but it is understood, though there is no rule to the effect, 
that if a co-operator is out of work elsewhere, he has a 
claim to employment before any other man. When a 
co-operator works on the farm, he is paid wages at the 
usual rate ; and if he were not an efficient labourer, there 
would be no scruple about discharging him. The affairs 
of the concern are managed by a committee of four, but 
the practical direction of the farm rests with the bailiff, 
himself a co-operator, but employed as a servant of the 
company, and paid is. per week above the usual rate of 
day wages. Some of the members of the committee cannot 
read or write. Two fresh members are. elected in rotation 
every year ; and though want of scholarship would not ex- 
clude him, yet if a man were not thought sufficiently intelli- 
gent for the business he would have to discharge, he would 
be refused when his turn came. All the voting is by ballot. 
No member is allowed more than one share ; only labourers 
of the parish are eligible for membership ; and if a man 
goes to live three miles away from the parish, he must 
dispose of his share. As long as he remains a member, he 
must, by the rules of the society, be a member also of the 



no CO-OPERATIVE FARMS, ETC. 



Stoke and Melford Benefit Club. A member can sell his 
share, with the landlord's and committee's approval. When 
a fresh member is admitted, he pays jQ^ down, and the 
remainder of the current value of the shares by successive 
instalments. The landlord chose the original members, and 
claims to have the approval of new members ; but he does 
not interfere with the company, as regards the cultivation 
of the land, more than he would with any other tenant. 
The premises are required to be kept in repair by the 
tenants, the landlord finding rough materials. They are to 
be insured in the amount of ;^5oo, and every twelve years 
the farm is revalued. A member, falling into difficulties, 
can have a loan advanced to him up to half the current 
value of his share'; a privilege, however, I was informed, 
which has rarely been used. The annual profits are 
divided equally among the shareholders. Among the 
members are four widows, one of whom has four small 
children ; they do what they can for themselves, and up to 
the present time have been able to maintain themselves by 
their work and the dividend on their shares, without the 
aid of parochial relief. Indeed, the guardians would disallow 
relief in the case of any person possessed of property of 
the amount represented by the value of a share, so that the 
scheme has a direct tendency to diminish pauperism. 

*'The first experiment apparently succeeded so well, 
that in 1854 Mr. Gurdon was tempted to tr)' a second, and 
started the ' Assington Co-operative Agricultural Associa- 
tion.' The new concern began with 70 acres of land, and 
36 members, each subscribing ;^3 105. by way of capital. 
Again, Lhcr liberality of the landlord was taxed to supple- 
ment this inadequate amount of capital by a loan, without 
interest, of £^^^0. The company has so far prospered 
that, though the times have been somewhat hard with them 



CO-OPERATIVE FARMS, ETC. in 



in consc(iucnce of the burden of this debt (which is now, 
however, wholly re])aid), and the taking in and stocking a 
considerable accession of land, their present condition is 
as follows :— they now occupy 212 acres, at a yearly rent of 
^if 325, the company paying tithe, rates, and taxes, which 
amount to about ^50 a year. The company is entirely 
out of debt ; the stock of the farm is valued at ^1,200 ; 
the original ^3 loj-. shares would sell freely for ^30. 
There has not yet been anything worth speaking of in the 
way of profits to divide ; and what has generally been 
distributed has been some article in kind, as a ton of coah, 
or something of the sort, to each shareholder ; but the 
members are satisfied with the state of things, and the 
prospects of the concern are bright in the future. All the 
members but six are of the class of farm labourers ; the six 
excepted ones are a miller, a blacksmith, a shoemaker, a 
wheelwright, and two carpenters. Female labour is only 
employed at weeding time, or for a job of stone-picking ; 
and at present there are only three boys working on the 
farm, one of ten, the second of fourteen, the third of sixteen 
years of age. 

"The societies are not yet incorporated, but intend to 
be. The squire, I believe, has ceased for some years to 
be resident at Assington ; so that the success of the two 
experiments may fairly be set down, not to any sentimental 
fondling on his part, but to the sound principles on which 
they were based, and the prudent management by which 
they have been conducted. The only exceptional advan- 
tage which the societies have enjoyed, as they do not 
appear to be at all favoured in the matter of rent, was in 
the landlord's original loan, in both cases now paid off, 
to enable them to stock their farms. 

*' I paid a visit to Assington, to see the phenomena with 



112 CO-OPERATIVE FARMS, ETC. 

my own eyes. I gathered the information, which I have 
summarized in the preceding paragraphs, from Mr. Hedges, 
a large occupier in the parish, and churchwarden, and 
from the two baiUffs, John Crisell and John Marshall, 
upon the co-operative farms. Judging as well as I 
could judge from appearances, I have no hesitation in 
saying that the experiment has been an eminent success, 
and that it is an experiment well worth trying in other 
localities.* 

" The only objections of any force taken to it were that 
of Mr. Hedges, that if the system became general, it would 
extinguish the tenant-farmer class ; and that of Mr. Maud, 
that the tenant-farmer class being extinguished, there would 
be a chasm in our social, and particularly in our parochial, 
system that it would be difficult to throw a bridge over. 
But these objections, though theoretically forcible, may be 
practically disregarded. It is not Hkely that the small- 

* It is an experiment as it seems to me that many 
a clergyman might find it advantageous, both to himself 
and to his parish, to try upon his glebe. I read recently 
an interesting paper addressed to the Newbury Farmers' 
Club by Mr. F. VV. Everett, in which the writer lamented, 
on economical and social grounds, the disappearance of 
small farms, meaning by " small farms " holdings between 
the size of 50 and 250 acres. He considered that many 
articles of daily consumption, requiring close personal 
attention, such, as poultry and stock, were produced more 
successfully on small farms than on large ones. The co- 
operative system would encourage the reappearance of 
small farms, without the reappearance of a class that neither 
did themselves nor any one else much good, the class of 
small farmers. 



CO-OPERATIVE FARMS, ETC. 113 



farm system will ever become general, or the capitalist 
tenant farmer be displaced by a body of co-operators little 
if anything above the rank or intelligence of labouring men. 
No landlord would retrace the steps of the last half century, 
and break up his estate again into a number of small hold- 
ings. I think it very questionable if these co-operators 
would be able to manage a larger business than they are 
at present conducting. I am not at all the more assured 
of the performance and solidity of the great Rochdale 
enterprise because I am told that there is invested in it, 
in one form or another, a capital of several hundred 
thousand pounds. Concerns may become too unwieldy 
to be manageable, too gigantic to be safe. The very 
success of the Assington experiment appears to me to be 
due, in part, to the moderate limits within which it has 
been carried on. 

" Mr. Maud, though thinking that the drawbacks of the 
system outweigh its benefits, enumerates among these latter 
some very considerable items. It attaches, he says, the 
labourer to his parish, in fact, to the soil. It counteracts 
the drain of which farmers so loudly complain ; that is, 
of their best men into other employments supposed to be 
more remunerative. It is a decided help, Mr. Maud 
allows, to the labourer in a pecuniary point of view ; and 
if widely adopted, would greatly diminish poor-rates — i.e., 
pauperism'; and, with pauperism, crime. 

"To these admitted advantages may be added others. 
At the same time that the system displaces no labour, the 
co-operative farms employing no more hands than if they 
were occupied by a single tenant, it diffuses among a much 
larger number of the population an interest in the soil, and 
with that, an interest in the prosperity and stability of the 
country. In these revolutionary dviys, the tendency of the 



114 CO-OPERATIVE FARMS, ETC. 

sysiem is decidedly anti-revolutionary. The co-operator is 
a man who knows and feels that he has something to lose. 
And not only so, but the system increases that honest 
spirit of independence and self-respect which I am sure is 
as necessary in the lo^vest class as in the highest to rescue 
it from degradation. Mr. Maud says that it has not yet 
done much for education ; but I think it, infallibly, will do. 
It is hardly conceivable that a system which has such a 
direct tendency to develop the sense of personal interest, 
should not at the same time develop a desire of knowledge, 
which may be called the correlative of the sense of personal 
interest. It is the poor drudge, to whom to-morrow is as 
to-day, without prospect and without hope, who is content 
to remain in his ignorance." 

Unfortunately the societies have never been 
registered under the Provident Societies *Act, 
and as they have never pubHshed an Annual 
Balance Sheet, reliable information as to their 
financial position has not been forthcoming. I 
have on several occasions made an effort to 
procure such Information, and have failed. All 
that it was possible to discover was that of late 
years, at any rate, No. i T^irm was continuing 
successfully to pay Its way, while it was re- 
marked that No. 2 Farm was feellno^ the strain 
of the bad seasons of the last few years. The 
truth of that rumour has been made evident by 
the Letter of Appeal which has just been issued 



CO-OPERATIVE FARMS, ETC. 115 

b\' the Guild of Co-operators. The following 
is the substance of that Letter: — 

" At the Local Conference of Co-operative Societies in 
the Colchester District, held at Harwich on the 2nd instant, 
a Report on one of the well-known Co-operative Farms 
AT AssiNGTON (Suffolk), known as the ' Severals and Knotts 
Fanii' was submitted ; and after a long discussion, the 
following Resolutions were unanimously adopted : — 

" * Resolved, that the facts now stated show that the 
" No. 2 " Farm at Assington would probably regain its 
former prosperity if sufficient capital were provided by the 
Co-operative Societies, especially those in the neighbouring 
Counties, — and if those Societies supplemented the custom 
provided by the general market.' 

" ' Resolved, thereupon, that a Deputation be sent to the 
Societies, inquiring what help in Capital and Custom those 
Societies would contribute if a new Society were now formed to 
carry on the Farm in question. 

" * Resolved, that '' the Guild of Co-operators," which has 
for some time past inquired into all the circumstances of 
the Farm, be entrusted with the duty of carrying the 
preceding Resolutions into effect.' 

"We are therefore instructed by the Guild Executive 
Committee to bring this subject to the notice of Co- 
operative Societies in Suffolk, Essex, and neighbouring 
Counties, in order that their respective Committees may 
consider the following facts, and decide whether it is desir- 
able that a Society should be formed to carry on the ' Severals 
and Knotts Farm,' and, if so, what capital and what custom 
can be contributed by the existing Distributive Societies. 

''The Farm in question, together with the other in its 
immediate vicinity, — 'the No. l Farm,' have been carried 



ii6 CO-OPERATIVE FARMS, ETC. 

on since the years 1829 and 1850 respectively by two Co- 
operative Associations of labourers, and have been repeatedly 
mentioned in the works of Economists and in the writings 
of social reformers generally. Their success in the hands 
of Agricultural Labourers, united in co-operation, has been 
referred to as a remarkable proof of what can be done in 
agricultural production so conducted. 

" The two Associations not only paid off the whole of the 
' capital advanced to them, including the value of the stock, 
but for many years paid a regular money dividend. Indeed, 
the profits were supposed to be so good as to indispose the 
members to admit new Associates. Their superior comfort 
and well-being were generally a subject of remark, and the 
present Vicar of Assington has borne testimony to the social 
and moral influence of these Associations on the inhabitants 
generally. 

"In consequence, however (i) of the long series of 
'disastrous years which have ruined hundreds of farmers ; 
•:(2) in consequence of inadequate capital* for replenishing 
the farm with fresh stock, for making improvements, and for 
rearing cattle t and sheep, working a dairy, etc. ; and (3) in 
'consequence, perhaps, of defective management, recently, 
the No. 2 Farm has now to be wound up. There is, how- 
ever, enough to pay all debts, including the Landlord's 
Rent, and to leave a considerable surplus. It must also 
be borne in mind, that the other Farm continues to pay 
its way, and is in good condition. i 



* No reserve fund was formed, and profits were all paid 
away. 

t Thus manure will be provided by the working of the 
farm, instead of being imported, as at present. 

X I should myself venture to add, "And (4), perhaps the 



CO-OPERATIVE FARMS, ETC. 117 

" Now the question has arisen whether it is not desirable 
that a 7ie7u Society should be constituted to carry on this 
Farm. Much has b;jen said as to the importance of Co- 
operation being apphed to Agriculture, in order to raise the 
condition of labourers and to enable distributive Societies 
to obtain Farm produce direct from the producer. Indeed, 
Co-operators have to justify their claims to be able to 
apply Co-operation successfully to this form gf Industry as 
well as to all others. 

"We submit the facts connected with the Farm in 
question. 

"It comprises 223 acres of land, consisting of a rather 
heavy soil, for the most part, some of it well adapted for 
cereals and root-crops, and some for pasturage. It is stated, 
that mutton can well be supplied, vegetables and dairy 
produce, as well as the crops hitherto raised. 

" The Farm is four miles from the Railway Station at 
Buj'es. 

" The rent is ^^268, being 2^s. an acre (which is Sj-. an 
acre less than what was formerly paid). 

" The Landlord would be willing to grant to a Registered 
Society a lease of seven or fourteen years. 

" He will impose no restrictions and conditions as to the 
mode of farming ; an obviously important advantage. 

*' He will make no reservation as to rabbits, giving un- 
restricted permission for their destruction (excepting during 
'closed time,' when the birds are nesting). This is an 
advantage not possessed in the past, when loss was very 
great from this cause. 

most important consideration of all, in consequence of there 
being no regulation that the labourers on the farm should 
also be shareholders of the Association." 



ii8 CO-OPERATIVE FARMS, E'JC. 

" The farm is fairly well stocked, even at present ; and 
there is a supply of agricultural machinery, houses, stables, 
etc. 

''It is considered that, with a capital of ^2,500, the 
farm could be placed in excellent condition, and its pros- 
perity assured, by extending and improving production, \\ 
increasing the number of cows and horses, by rearing 
mutton, by establishing a dairy, and by securing first-rate 
management. 

" If a new Society were formed, a large number of the 
present farmers would become members and give their long 
practical experience ; whereas, on the other hand, the 
representatives of existing distributive Societies would bring 
a wider experience, better business habits, and fresh energy. 
The open market would be supplemented, to some extent, 
by the demands of those Societies for vegetables and grain, 
for milk, butter, eggs, fowl, mutton, bacon, and other 
articles. 

" Of course the question of the extent to which Societies 
can supply themselves from the Farm must depend on 
their distance and the cost of carriage. They might at once 
set on foot inquiries as to this point, and place themselves 
in correspondence with the secretary of the No. 2 Farm 
Association, Mr. Pollard, who attended the recent conference 
at Harwich, and gave some useful information. 

" The general question of forming a new Society will have 
to be looked at from several aspects : 

1. "The importance to the progress of the movement 
generally, that co-operative Agriculture should gradually 
be tried under conditions as favourable as possible, and the 
importance of avoiding the discouragement which would 
result from total abandonment of the Assington Farm. 

2. "The question whether this } articular Farm is likely 



CO-OPERATfVE FARMS, ETC. 119 

from its character, its position, and the special circum- 
stances, to give fair guarantees for success as an investment. 

3. *' What are the advantages which the existing Societies 
would derive from supplying themselves with produce in 
this case, direct from the producers, who would be identified 
with them as closely as possible. 

" A few details may be added, as enabling the Societies 
to determine what course they will take. 

" Mr. Pollard believes that the present members would 
take up shares (which would probably be of the value of 
^i each) to the extent of ^500; which would leave only 
^'2,000 to be raised by Societies and individual members 
in adjoining and other Counties. 

" The present Association proposes to wind up by selling 
everything on the farm by auction and paying all liabilities 
from the proceeds. The new Society, if formed, could 
purchase at the sale such articles as were in good condition ; 
obtaining at other sales (at Michaelmas) further require- 
ments. 

" In addition to the rent, tithes and rates of all kinds 
amount to ^£^52 per annum, which sum, with the rent, 
makes a total of ^318. It should be observ^ed, however, 
that the present rent is not high, and is eight shillings an 
acre less than what the members paid in their prosperous 
years. 

" The Landlord is willing to treat with a new Society, 
and Mr. E. Y. Neale has prepared Rules for one. Societies 
wijch are situated too far to avail themselves of the farm 
produce might, nevertheless, be willing to take shares in 
the Society formed to carry on the undertaking. 

" The Guild Council heartily recommend the proposal to 
form a Society for carrying on this Farm to the best con- 
sideration of Co-operative Societies and their members.'' 



120 CO-OPERATIVE FARMS, ETC. 



A Co-operative Farm in He7^efordshire, 

The account of another unsuccessful attempt 
at direct Co-operative Farming in England I 
may also perhaps conveniently give here. It 
is that of the Brampton-Bryant Farm, esta- 
blished by Mr. Walter Morrison in 1873. The 
following is an extract from a letter which 
Mr. Morrison was good enough to write to 
me on the subject : — 

" I was led to make the experiment somewhat by acci- 
dent. I heard, in 1872, of the formation in North Hereford- 
shire of an Agricultural Labourers' Union : this was long 
before Mr. Arch was heard of, and I may observe in passing, 
that it was very successful. Its funds were small, but they 
were carefully and honestly administered. There were no 
extravagant expenses of management, the salaries were 
ridiculously small, and until the health of the Secretary, 
Thomas Strange, the soul of the Union, broke down from 
sheer hard work, it flourished. Wages rose greatly, — the 
funds were chiefly used in removing surplus labourers to 
the North, — and though the farmers naturally dislike the 
movement, there was no strike, and it was not discredited 
by the spiteful abuse of squires, parsons, and farmers, which 
have disgraced other organizations. I learned that its 
leaders were men who had accumulated sums up to the 
amount of £,\oo in the Savings Banks, in a district where 
the wages were nine and ten shillings a week. In July of 
that year I paid a visit to the Co-operative Farms at 
Assington, with the Hon. and Rev. J. AV. Leigh, who had 



CO-OPERATIVE FARMS, ETC. 121 



been starting a Co-operative Store in his village. He told 
me of a small farm which was on sale near Leintwardine, 
which was the head-quarters of the Herefordshire Labourers' 
Union. The farm was half arable and half grass, con- 
tained 1 48 acres, and was let for ^^140 a year. I went 
down to see the farm, and to form some idea of the capa- 
bilities of the leading men of the Union. I was very much 
pleased with them, and so having purchased the farm, I 
sent over three of the Union Leaders to spend a few days 
at Assington. They came back in a state of great enthu- 
siasm about Co-operative Farming. The result was, the 
formation of a Society, whose rules I forward with this. In 
March 1873, ^^1 entered upon the occupation of the 
farm at the old rent. There were then twenty-seven mem- 
bers, with a capital of ^510. In October 1873, the 
members were twenty-nine in number, with a capital of 
;^662. Of this sum ;!^467 wxre contributed by twenty 
labourers or artizans living near, and ;^ 195 by nine friends 
of mine, who were interested in the experiment. When we 
wound up the Society in 1879, the farm having been given 
up on March 25th, 1879, the share capital was ^808, and 
the number of members, I think, thirty-one. At the time 
of our start, all stock and implements were at a very high 
price, while they were at their lowest price when we had to 
sell them off. This must be allow^ed for in estimating the 
financial result; but no dividend was ever earned during 
the tenancy, though at the end of the first year the Com- 
mittee credited each member with five per cent, interest, 
without, however, paying out any cash on account of the 
dividend aforesaid, and I found this supposititious dividend 
entered in the books, so there it remained ; and when we 
wound up and sold off our assets, we found that with the 
help of rather a liberal estimate of what was due from me 



122 CO-OPERATIVE FARMS, ETC. 

on account of tenant right, which I gave to them, as I have 
for many years to my other tenants, there was just enough 
to pay nineteen shillings in the pound, which, with the 
shilling in the pound improperly credited to the capital as 
mentioned above, really was a distribution of twenty shillings 
in the pound." 

The causes of the failure Mr. Morrison con- 
siders to have been moral, not economical. The 
labourers were unsuccessful in finding the right 
man as manager. They tried two. The first 
was not honest, and drank. The second was 
perfectly honest, but lacked energy and admin- 
istrative power. Altogether, it is evident that 
the labourers at Brampton- Bryant were not 
quite ripe for the movement. 



CHAPTER IX. 

AJV EXPERIMENT IN CUMBERLAND. 

"Never was landlord more sagacious, inventive, genial, 
or liberal — or changeable, not in his general purpose, but in 
his methods. Had he been less paternal, and taught his 
people the art of self-help, he had been a great benefactor." 
— G. J. HoLYOAKE : History of Co-operatioit. « 

If the story of the Co-operative Farming ex- 
periment at Ralahine In Ireland, related In 
the chapters v. — vll. might rightly enough be 
called "a romance In facts and figures," I fear 
some readers at any rate may be Inclined to 
think that the experiment of which I desire now 
to give a brief account will rather merit the title 
of burlesque comedy or even screaming farce. 
Certainly the book In which the story Is told Is 
one of the queerest books about farming on 
record. 

The title of the w^ork "Ten Years of Gentle- 
man Farming at Blennerhasset, with Co-opera- 
tive Objects," gives no fair Idea of Its contents. 
For certainly there never was before, and 



124 AN EXPERIMENT IN CUMBERLAND. 

probably never will be again, either such gentle- 
man farming or such co-operation. The account 
of the origin of the experiment given by Mr. 
Lawson — a brother of Sir Wilfrid, the wit of 
teetotalism — is itself characterised by a degree 
of moral candour, which is certainly as refreshing 
as it is uncommon. " Trained as a shooter of 
animals," he says, " a hunter of Cumberland 
beasts with hounds, and a trapper of vermin, I 
found myself in the spring of 1 86 1 , in my twenty- 
fifth year, without an occupation, without many 
acquaintances, except among the poor, whom 
I had learnt to despise because they spoke bad 
grammar and took their coats off to work ; and 
without the reputation of having been successful 
in any undertaking except that of the mastership 
and huntsmanship of my brother's foxhounds." 
Riding up to London at this time, he somehow 
hears of Mr. Mechi's celebrated farm at Tiptree, 
visits it, becomes enthusiastic for the Tiptree 
system, and, after endeavouring in vain to 
impress on his father and his practical men the 
many and great advantages of Alderman Mechi's 
system of farming over the old jog-trot one, 
accepts the offer of one of his father's vacant 
farms to experiment upon as he chose. '* Had 



AN EXPERIMENT IN CUMBERLAND. 125 



I been differently circumstanced," he says, "my 
ignorance of farming might have seemed a great 
objection ; but it seemed to me then to be of 
the never-go-into-the-water-till-you-know-how- 
to-swim kind ; besides, any one could carry on 
what he understood, while it would require 
some cleverness to carry on what one did not 
understand." 

Zeal without Knowledge, 

Accordingly he diligently set about testing 
the quality of the soil ; speut several weeks in 
travelling for agricultural information ; engaged 
his father's coachman as head man — not then 
having appreciated the shrewd advice of Mr. 
Stephen, in his " Book of the Farm," that 
while honesty is an important qualification for a 
shepherd, knowledge of a shepherd's business is 
even more so ; — bought a steam plough at a 
cost of ^^825, and ten tons of low-priced guano 
from a cheap dealer in the neighbourhood, and 
then finally fell in with an intelligent agricul- 
tural engineer, who told him he had made three 
great mistakes already^-the steam plough, the 
cheap guano, and, worst of all, the coachman- 
farmer. *'How profusely I laid out money — 



120 A.V EXPERIMENT IN CUMBERLAND. 

pulling down miles of old fences, making thou- 
sands of yards of good new roads, draining the 
land five feet deep and ten yards apart, and 
taking thousands of tons of stones out of the 
ground ; how during several years I bought and 
fed animals and sold them at a loss ; how I 
deceived myself and was deceived by others in 
various ways — can be sufficiently well imagined 
without being described." However, the whole 
experiment in the minutest detail of failure or 
success is most carefully and elaborately de- 
scribed in the book, from its commencement, in 
May 1 86 1, down to the moment when after his 
farm buildings had been burnt down, and it 
became finally clear to him that his "farming 
was very far from being remunerative, or from 
giving prospect of becoming so," he sold his 
farm to his brother in August 1871. 

It must not be supposed, however, that even 
under its business aspect the story is without 
its value even to practical agriculturists. The 
chapters on " Farming Losses," " Manufactur- 
ing Profits and Losses," ** Shop-keeping and 
other Ventures," "Varieties of Farm Cropping," 
*' Field and Crop Balance Sheets," '* Manures 
and their Values," *T^\irm Labour and its Cost," 



yLV KXPERIMEXr JN CUMBERLAND. 127 

"Experiments on Grass Manuring," and ''Field 
Experiments on Potatoes," are all full of charac- 
teristic and sugforestive information which cannot 
fail to be instructive. 

It is with the social aspect of the story, how- 
ever, that I am more especially concerned. 
From the first Mr. Lawson had determined 
that the labourers on his farm should partake 
directly in the profits. "In going about to get 
information, I had found one great difficulty 
common to good farmers (as well as to the 
other sort), namely, the difficulty of dealing 
with the labourer. ... So I determined that my 
farm should be a co-operative one. . . . Co- 
operation began gradually to take the leading 
place in my mind, and soon became the chief 
object in my life ; so that I did not so much 
intend co-operation to serve the purpose of 
farming, as farming to serve the purpose of 
co-operation." 

Accordingly he called his labourers together 
and explained to them the meaning of Co- 
operation, told them something about what had 
been done by Mr. Gurdon, in Suffolk, who as 
long ago as 1831 had let a farm to thirty 
labourers, which had been ever since carried 



128 AN EXPERIMENT IN CUMBERLAND. 

on successfully on Co-operative principles, and 
finally gave them the opportunity of deciding 
for themselves on the question, — " Is it desir- 
able that the v^orkers on the farm should be 
direct partakers of its proceeds ? " by taking 
their vote by ballot. 

*' Our voting urns were two bottles : one was 
ticketed with the word ' Co-operation,' and the 
other bore the inscription, ' Every man for 
himself.' What, then, was the result with 
these eleven people ? Actually ten of them 
voted for ' Every man for himself,' and only 
one put Into the Co-operative bottle ! " After 
twice again trying the experiment of a vote, 
to which not the labourers interested only, but 
all the inhabitants of the village were now- 
Invited, Mr. Lawson, at last, In 1866, "offered 
Co-operation to all comers," in the shape of 
one-tenth of the profits for the workers. '' I 
felt," he said, " that direct participation by the 
labourer In the profits of the farm would be 
an Improvement upon the existing system of 
paying him by regular wages only, and I kept 
urging its desirability. In different ways, to 
various people, for several years. I saw, ulti- 
mately, that the expediency of measures was 



AN EXPERIMENT IN CUMBERLAND. 129 

not always to be judged of by the number of 
people voting for or against them, and that if 
I approved of the principle of I^artnership of 
Industry, it was for me to introduce it, and let 
it find its own value as the time went on." 

In the. C^-^/^ra/^r newspaper, in May 1866, 
Mr. Lawson inserted the following letter : — 

'' LABOURERS SHARING ONE-TENTH OF 
PROFITS. 

''Tithe for the Toilers. 

"Brayton, Carlisle, May iT,th. 
'' Dear Sir, — I enclose a card which I have circulated 
among my workers. I have offered them one-tenth of my 
profits, and thus hope to make their labour interested. I 
began last week to issue tickets with wages ; these tickets 
are to be given in on January ist, 1867, when one-tenth of 
the profits will be divided on them. 

" I find that if, in paying, the paymaster forgets the 
tickets, he is soon reminded by the workers. I cannot yet 
see any improvement, but hope that the end of the year 
will show some. 

*' I remain, yours truly, 

" William Lawson." 

The ticket was as follows : — 

*' CO-OPERATIVE LABOUR. 
"To MY Workers. 
" I give tickets with wages, that you may obtain two 

9 



I30 AN EXPERIMENT IN CUMBERLAND. 

shillings out of every pound of profit, and thus have a 
direct money interest in the success of the establishment. 

" William Lawson." 

Unfortunately, however, owing chiefly to 
mismanagement in cattle, sheep, etc., there was 
heavy loss on this year's operations, and con- 
sequently no dividend to the labourers. 

In 1868, Mr. Lawson gave up the bonus on 
labour idea, and offered to the public in general 
all profits on his capital (which was about 
^54,000) over 2\ per cent, (the only interest 
asked). These public profits, as they were 
called, were not to be divided, but spent upon 
public uses ; and a free school, reading room 
and library, a village hospital, a Christmas 
festival, etc., engrossed about ^150 of them 
during the year ; so that after Mr. Lawson's 
2\ per cent, (about ^1,330) and this ^150 were 
deducted, about ^30 was left, and this, in 
accordance with the resolution of two public 
meetings, and with Mr. Lawson's assent, was 
divided as a bonus upon labour. Time, not 
wages, was the basis of division, so as to give 
an equal share to the female workers. This 
bonus gave about ^\d. per week, or \os. for 
the nine months to those on full time. In 



AN EXPERIMENT IN CUMBERLAND. 131 

1869 Mr. Lawson again made the same offer, 
but the profit again fell short of the 2 J per cent. 

The Great Bonus Year. 

The year 1870, however, was more fortu- 
nate, and is still recollected at Blennerhasset 
as '' The great bonus year." The following 
notice had been printed on cards distributed 
among the labourers at the beginning of the 
year : — 

*' To MY Workers. 

" I shall give as bonus to ordinary time-workers in pro- 
portion to time worked (exclusive of extra and overtime) 
one quarter of this year's declared income arising from 
my present capital, clear of all current expenses for public 
good; but should such income exceed ;^i,ooo, I shall give 
as bonus half its excess over ;£^5oo. 

" William Lawson." 

The balance sheet for that year of the whole 
establishment showed a balance on the right 
side of ^1,715 4^., and it must be borne in 
mind that no rent for the farm or garden, nor 
interest on the capital of the establishment, was 
charged. Some departments of the establish- 
ment yielded a profit, and others a loss, that 
year ; but the net result, in figures, w^as a gain 
of the above-mentioned ^1,715 \s. 



132 AN EXPERIMENT IN CUMBERLAND. 

Of this gain ^^546 4^. ^\d. was awarded 
according to the above-mentioned announce- 
ment to the workers, as bonus on time, afford- 
ing 4i-. 2\d. per week to each person — man, 
woman, or child — or ^10 iQi". \\d. to every 
full-time worker during the year. 

After the distribution of this large bonus it 
was naturally expected that the business would 
continue improving, and that 1871 would show 
a good profit too. Much interest was therefore 
taken in the " manifesto " to be issued for 1871, 
and more public discussion and advice was 
bestowed upon it than on any previous one. 
The following is a copy of it as finally agreed 
upon : — 

THE BLENNERHASSET CO-OPERATIVE ESTA- 

BLISHMENT. 

Capital, ;£32,78o 45. 8^^. 
Approximate Investment of Funds, November ist, 1870. 

Assets. 
415 a. 3r. 2op. of farming and gar- £ s. d. 

den land, farm buildings, machi- 
nery, and cottage-property . 30,900 o o 
Shops and house property at New- 
castle ..... 600 o o 
Farm and garden stock, crops, im- 
plements .... 5.554 I 'i 



J 



AN EXPERIMENT IN CUMBERLAND, 133 



Assets {co7iiinued). 

Two steam engines and plough 
tackle ..... 


1,300 


s. 



d. 



Manures on land .... 


676 


15 





Sundry other property, Blenner- 
hasset . ... 
American Investments 


751 
8,447 


2 
2 


2j 

6 


Invested at 4 per cent. 
Invested in various Co-operative 
Societies .... 


2,639 

42 




4 



6 


Book debts .... 
In the bank .... 


154 
478 




2 


4 
10 


Cash in hand .... 


29 


10 






5i>57i 18 6 



Liabilities. 

Mortgage on 393a. 29P. . . 18,000 o o 
Book debts .... 245 9 2\ 
Bonus to workers for the year end- 
ing Nov. I, 1870 . . . 546 4 7| 



18,791 13 9I 
Balance net capital . . . 32,780 4 8| 



51.571 18 6 



Notice. — Of the declared income arising from the above- 
mentioned capital, for the year ending Nov. ist, 187 1, I 
shall devote one-third to expenditure for the public good, 
one-third to the payment of bonus to my time workers, and 
one-third to my own use — the income to be declared and 



134 AN EXPERIMENT IN CUMBERLAND. 

the bonus paid before the end of 187 1. N.B. — The bonus 
is not payable to delinquents, nor is it transferable. 
January 2nd, 1871. William Lawson. 

Ejtd of the Experiment. 

Once more, however, the profits of the year 
were nil, and no bonus to labour was possible. 
In the same year Mr. Lawson sold the farm, 
and the experiment came to an end. 

It must be plain, I think, to any unbiassed 
reader, that no conclusions either for or against 
co-operative farming can really be drawn from 
this experiment. Evidently there was no 
sufficient method in Mr. Lawson's co-operation. 
He felt — what every Christian man should feel 
— that his property was a great social trust ; he 
was extraordinarily benevolent and sincere, 
superbly indifferent to Mrs. Grundy, but he was 
also wanting in steadiness of will and purpose. 

The Defects of Mr. Lazvsons Co-operation. 

The general result of his experiment is well 
summed up by Mr. Glassbrook, who acted as 
bailiff to the farm between February 1868 
and the sale of the estate : — '* Mr. Lawson's 
views on co-operation, I think, are good and 
sound, and he has taken great interest in this 



AN EXrh.R'nil'lNT IN CUMBERLAND. 135 

movement. He would have done striking good 
had he fully carried out the branches entered 
upon ; but as soon as any new scheme was got 
into working order it v/as laid aside ; and in 
my opinion this was the main cause of Mr. 
Lawson's non-success. Mr. Lawson co- 
operated with his workers very successfully, 
all his offers to them being highly appreciated 
and well wrought for ; and the workers were 
just beginning to have full confidence in their 
employer when the establishment was broken 
up. The class of workers on the farm was 
quite a superior body, and well worthy of 
co-operating with." A similar testimony is 
borne by Mr. Holyoake in his " History of 
Co-operation." 

Though Mr. Law^son spent ^30,000 on this 
experiment, " it could hardly be said to be lost, 
since at any point of his many experiments he 
might have made money had he so minded. 
But he proceeded on the plan of a man who 
built one-storied houses, and as soon as he 
found that they let at a paying rent, pulled 
them down and built two-storied houses, and 
when he found that they answered he de- 
molished them and put up houses of three 



136 AN EXPERIMENT IN CUMBERLAND. 

Stories, and no sooner were they profitably 
occupied than he turned out the inhabitants 
and pulled them down. What he lost was by 
the rapidity of his changes, for he had sagacity 
as great as the generosity of his intentions." 



CHAPTER X. 

SOME EXPERIMENTS IN GERMANY. 

" As wine and oil are imported to us from abroad, so must 
ripe understanding and many civil virtues be imported into 
our minds from foreign writings ; we shall else miscarry still, 
and come short in the attempts of any great enterprise." 
—Milton. 

Among the many eccentric epitaphs that are to 
be met within churchyard annals, I should 
suppose that none are more singular than one 
which is to be found in the graveyard of a little 
church in the Mecklenburg Highlands. It Is 
the inscription which has been graven, in 
accordance with his own express desire, on the 
tomb of a well-known German economist, J. H. 
von Thuenen. The epitaph Is as follows : — 

W = v^APT 
By this mathematical formula the economist 
desired to express the principle that the natural 
wages of labour, represented by the symbol W, 
would, in any State uninfluenced by foreign 



138 SOME EXPERIMENTS IN GERMANY. 

competition, be an exact mean between the cost 
of the labourer's subsistence, represented by A, 
and the value of his production, represented by 
P. While accepting the dictum of Adam Smith, 
and the older political economists, that " the 
produce of labour constitutes the natural 
recompense or wages of labour," Von Thuenen, 
in following out the proportion of recompense 
due to labour, when subjected to the combined 
influence of capital, rent, and superintendence, 
contended that the payment of labour reached 
only its true level when placed on an equality 
with capital. If the rate of wages sank to the 
starvation point, owing to the action of com- 
petition, could that, he asked, be called the 
natural rate of wages ? '' The man," he con- 
tended, " who has passed his life in honest and 
laborious activity till his old age, ought neither 
to depend on the favour of his children nor on 
the community. An independent, care-free, 
and easy old age is the natural recompense for 
the incessant exertion of his days of health and 
strength." 

Industrial PartncrsJiip. 
It was with the view of putting his [)rinciple 



SOME EXPERIMENTS IN GERMANY. 139 



into practice that Von Thuenen, in the year 
1S48, estabhshed a system of industrial partner- 
ship with the labourers on his own estate of 
Tellau, the continued success of which up to 
the present time furnishes us with one of the 
most instructive lessons to be drawn from the 
history of co-operative enterprise. In the C^- 
^/^r^/'^r newspaper of October 31st, 1868, Dr. 
Brentano, the well-known author of " English 
Guilds and Trades Unions," gave the following 
account of Von Thuenen's experiment: — 

"Long before the year 1848, it was Thuenen's wish to 
make an arrangement by which his labourers might partici- 
pate in the profits of his estate ; but as it is not general in 
Mecklenburg for proprietors to have such kindly feelings 
towards their labourers, Thuenen dared not do it The 
movement in 1848, however, obliged every one of the 
landed proprietors in Mecklenburg to make concessions to 
their labourers ; and though there was no movement on 
Thuenen's estate — for he had always lived on such terms 
with his labourers that there were none discontented — he 
thought the moment propitious for the purpose of carrying 
into effect what he had so long desired. The arrangements 
he made to give his workmen a share in the profits were 
as follows : — 

" If, after the deduction of certain expenses, the revenue 
of the estate should be more than 5,500 thalers, to every 
one of his labourers | per cent, of this surplus produce 
should be credited. The average revenue of Tellau during 



140 SOME EXPERIMENTS IN GERMANY. 



the fourteen years from 1833 to 1847 had been 7,500 thalers 
(^1)125). Thuenen calculated that the share of each 
labourer would be 10 thalers (30X.) annually, if the revenue 
of the estate should remain the same ; and he pointed out 
that if this revenue, in consequence of a better cultivation 
of the soil, should be increased every year by 1,000 
thalers (;^i5o), the share of the labourer would not be 
increased in the proportion of 75 : 85, but of 10 : 15. The 
interest of the labourer, he thought by this arrangement, 
would be most intimately connected with the increase of 
production. The number of labourers to whom he gave 
a share in the profits was twenty-one, and included amongst 
them is even the man who watches at night." 

Objects of Von Thuenen^s Schetne. — " The end at which he 
aimed by this arrangement he describes as follows : — 

" I. That the inhabitants of the village might imme- 
diately participate in the welfare, and also in the losses, of 
the proprietor of the estate, and might form together with 
him almost a family. 

"2. That the labourers might enjoy an income increas- 
ing continually and higher every year by the interest of their 
capital. 

"3. That before all, the labourer might be sure of a 
happy old age, free from the cares of life ; that after having 
spent his strong manhood in toil and activity, he might not 
starve in his latter years, when health and strength had 
departed, that he might not live on the charity of others, 
or as a burden to his children, but even be enabled to 
bequeath something to them." 

A Savings Bank. — " He erected a Savings Bank for this 
purpose. At Christmas the labourers' share in the year's 
revenue of the estate is to be inscribed in their savings 
book. For every thaler inscribed the proprietor of the 



SOME EXPERIMENTS IN GERMANY. 141 

estate has to pay one groschen interest, which is about four 
and one-sixth per cent., and at Christmas the interest is to 
be paid. The capital inscribed in the books of the savings 
bank cannot be withdrawn until the proprietor of the share 
has attained his sixtieth year. As soon as he has attained 
this age, the capital shall beat his free disposal; if he should 
die previously, his heirs are to get the amount standing to 
his credit." 

Successful Results, 

In a letter to Professor Boehmert, dated 
25th May, 1877, the present proprietor of the 
estate, the grandson of the original founder, 
states that *'the experiment has realised all the 
requirements proposed and expected by his 
grandfather. It has attached the labourers 
to his estate. It has secured for them an old 
age free from care. It has diminished the poor 
rate. It has established better and more har- 
monious relations between proprietor and 
labourers. Some of the labourers had more 
than ^75 to their credit In the savings bank In 
less than twenty years after the system was 
introduced. Up till 1876, the labourer's share In 
the profits had only three times fallen below the 
£\ \os. which Thuenen calculated beforehand 
it ought to reach, if the average revenue of the 
estate remained what it had previously been. 



142 SOME EXPERIMENTS IN GERMANY. 

Those three years were 1849, when it was 
£\ Si"., and two very exceptional years, 1866, 
when it was only 4^"., and 1876, when it was 
only \^s. In 1863 it was £^ \os., and in 1864 
^7 15^., and it has averaged about ^4 a year. 

Herr Berthold Wobling, in a paper -quoted 
by Bohmert, says of these experiments : — 

" These earnings have a special source of their own, viz., 
enhanced production due to the industry and care of the 
labourers. Every practical farmer knows how imperfectly 
agricultural work is done by hirelings of all sorts, and how 
little what goes by the name of good superintendence is 
able actually to effect in securing good execution of work. 
The full effect of any work is brought about, not merely by 
intensified exertion of muscular force, but also by zeal and 
alertness of mind. Such an application of bodily and mental 
forces is only to be obtained from one whose entire interests 
are engaged. In fact, new springs of production are thus 
opened, and it is this which gives to the system its high 
agricultural importance. The labourer finds that his increased 
incomings are relatively speaking more easily earned than 
under fixed wages, because they include payment for careful- 
ness as well as for efforts of brute force. A reciprocal influence 
on the habits of the labourers will also not fail to show 
itself. If they perceive that a successful result depends not 
merely on muscular exertion, but also on sustained orderli- 
ness and attention, they will find it more and more their 
interest to practise these virtues. 

** The proprietor derives, independently of the pecuniary 
result, many advantages from the half-i)rofit system. He has 



SOME EXPERIMENTS IN GERMANY. 143 



perfectly trustworthy labourers, and each piece of work is 
taken in hand at the proper moment. He is no longer 
obliged to urge and drive, while fretting internally at the 
many instances of neglect which he is powerless to prevent. 
When his back is turned, he knows that his business is as 
well attended as if he were directing it himself He can 
dispense with all intermediaries, as no formal overseeing is 
required. Nevertheless the position of the managing head 
has grown in importance. He must show more than was 
formerly necessary that his management is sound, and that 
with regard to every department of his business he is firm 
in the saddle, for he now has a responsibility towards his 
associated labourers. He is more than ever bound to set 
them an example of diligence, economy, and other virtues, 
on the exercise of which the success of the whole under- 
taking depends. In short, the system demands a thoroughly 
competent man." 

Herr yahnke s Scheme, 

In some respects perhaps even a more in- 
teresting experiment is that of Herr Jahnke, a 
proprietor of Bredow, in Brandenburg. 

" Struck with the distress of the agricultural labourers in 
the years 1871 and 1872, he resolved to devise apian by 
which each of his workmen should enjoy a menschen wiirdiges 
Dasein (a life worthy of a man), and the way should be pre- 
pared for their ultimate independence. In 1872 he entered 
into a contract with five labouring families to work his farm 
for five years at half-profits. A regular deed of co-partnery 
was drawn up. The proprietor hands over the land, the 
steading, and the stock to the Company at a valuation, and 



144 SOME EXPERIMENTS IN GERMANY. 

agrees to leave all his capital, amounting to jCt^o, as a 
burden on the business at 5 per cent, interest. He reserves 
to himself, however, his dwelling house, garden, peat and 
woodhouse, fruit trees and vineries, the unrestricted use of 
the well, and liberty to take peat, wood, and game. For 
other things he makes a special bargain with them. . . Herr 
Jahnke is manager ; buys, sells, keeps accounts, and gets 
^45 a year for doing so. . . The labourers receive a fine, 
healthy, and commodious dwelling-house each, a bit of 
garden ground, free peat and wood for their private use, and 
in money wages the five collectively are to receive £2 1 2s. 6d. 
a week in summer and ;£2 c^s. in winter ; or in other words 
about ;£2 5 a year each. . . . An annual balance sheet 
is to be made up on the loth April every year, and the 
profits, after deducting expenses aforesaid, are to be equally 
divided between the proprietor on the one hand, and the 
five labourers on the other. . . . 

As concerns the pecuniary results of the 
enterprise, the net profits divided in the year 
1872-3 were ^528 ; in 1873-4 they were ^488 ; 
and in 1874-5 they were ^549 ; making an 
average over the three years of ^521. Of this 
the proprietor received half, £260, and each of 
the f\vQ labourers a tenth, ^52. For the work 
of himself and his wife each labourer had thus, 
In addition to free house, garden, and fuel, 
£2^ a year in weekly wages, and £^2 a year 
in annual profits, or ^77 In all. 

Now, according to Von der Goetz's Govern- 



SOME EXPERIMENTS IN GERMANY. 145 



mciit Report in 1875, the ordinaiy income of 
agricultiinil labourers in Brandenburg was then 
£12 a year, and the highest paid agricultural 
labour in all Germany amounted to no more 
than ^33 a year. It is clear, therefore, that 
the system proved very advantageous to the 
labourers, and Herr Jahnke says that it also 
proved advantageous to the proprietor. He 
was never in want of labour, as he formerly 
used to be, and the produce of the farm was 
considerably increased. The work was better 
done than it was before, and was much more 
skilfully arranged. The men needed no super- 
intendence. If one of the five thought to 
scamp work, the other four remonstrated and 
kept him to his duty. Jahnke says that though 
in one sense he paid more for labour than he 
did before, in another sense he paid less, for 
the labour was more productive and was 
attended with less waste and destruction. 

A Lame and Impotent Conclusion. 

In 1877 the contract expired, and Herr 
Jahnke did not renew it, but sold his estate, 
which had been valued five years before at 
^4,500, for ;^5,7oo. The experiiiient had been 

10 



146 SOME EXPERIMENTS IN GERMANY. 

an entire success, he says, but he had 7nade so 
many eneinies by it, especially among the class of 
large landed proprietors, that he resolved to give 
it up and sell his estate. 

It is Indeed a mean and Impotent conclusion! 
However, we may have some hope, I trust, 
that on the EngHsh side of the German Ocean 
at any rate, if only the profit-sharing principle 
can be shown to be commercially advantageous 
to both employer and employed, the system will 
not fail, if once attempted, from mere want of 
moral courage, as in the case of Herr Jahnke. 

Social cowardice is not an unknown factor, 
of course, In English country life, and may per- 
haps even for a time throw obstacles In the way 
of the adoption of the co-partnery system in 
agriculture ; and yet, as I am glad to think, not 
every English squire or landlord is afraid to 
face the patriarch Job's question — " Do I fear 
a great multitude, or does the contempt of 
families terrify me?" (Job xxxi. 34). For 
already, as I write these words, proof comes 
to me that in one English county, at any rate, 
the system Is not to go without fair trial. A 
Warwickshire landlord, whose name I must 
withhold for the present, sends to me the 



SOME EXPERIMENTS IN GERMANY. 147 



following notice which he has just circulated 
among the labourers on his estate : — 

" The Manor Farm, 

" I agree to distribute among all labourers working on 
the Manor Farm (under the conditions specified below) 
60 percent, of the net profits of the farm. These net profits 
to be calculated after deducting from the gross profits ^300 
a year for rent, 4 percent, on ^4,000 invested on the farm, 
and the bailiff's percentage on dairy and poultry sales. 

" This money will be divided at the end of every year in 
proportion to the total amount of wages earned by each 
labourer during the year. 

" No labourer shall be entitled to receive any share who 
has not been working on the farm regularly for twelve 
months at the time of distribution. If he is absent from 
his work for a single day without permission from the 
bailiff, he will forfeit his share. 

" One-half of the money due to each labourer I shall 
invest for him at the Post Office Savings' Bank, and if he 
withdraws it without my permission, he will forfeit his right 
to any future share. 

''This agreement will come into force from November i, 
1882, so that the first distribution of profits (if there are 
any) will take place on November i, 1883. 

" I reserve the right of cancelling this agreement at a 
year's notice." 



CHAPTER XI. 

A COLLIERS' COW-CLUB. 

" Through smoke clouds rising thick and dun 

As dust of battle o'er us, 
Their white horns glisten in the sun 

Like plumes and crests before us. 
In our good drove, so sleek and fair. 

No bones of leanness rattle ; 
No tottering hide-bound ghosts are there, 

Or Pharaoh's evil cattle. 
Each stately beeve bespeaks the hand 

That fed him unrepining ; 
The fatness of a goodly land 



In each dun hide is shining." 



Whtttier. 



Green grass and some knowledge of stock 
would seem to be the two indispensable pre- 
requisites for successful cow-keeping, and 
neither one nor the other would one have 
expected from the nature of things to abound 
in the neighbourhood of Newcastle. Certainly 
it does seem surprising that we should have to 
go to the heart of the English coalfields to find 
a successful instance of ti Co-operative Dairy 
Farm. And yet in the village of North Seaton 



A COLLIERS' COW- CLUB. 149 



there is a little band of resolute north country 
colliers who have found time, in addition to their 
regular work in the mines, not only to under- 
take the management of some thirty cows, but 
actually to pay an annual dividend of over 7 per 
cent, as a result of their enterprise in dairy farming. 

The North Seatoii Co-operative Farining 

Society. 

The North Seaton Co-operative Farming 
Society is in reality a Co-operative Cow Club, 
established ten years ago, in the very heart of 
the colliery district, by Northumberland pitmen. 

I am indebted for the following interesting 

account of the origin of the Society to my 

friend Mr. J. Pringle, a member of the Club, 

and until lately a working pitman in that 

district : — 

A Cow Club '■'down among the Coals ^ — "Eleven years 
ago the colliery village of North Seaton, Northumberland, 
had a severe visitation of fever. Sad havoc was played 
among the little ones of the village. Almost all the chil- 
dren were more or less affected by this pestilent visitor. 
The doctors emphatically impressed on the minds of 
parents to give their children a better supply of milk — as 
much as they could drink — and to have it pure. To attain 
this there were many difficulties. Two chief ones — milk 
was scarce, and its scarcity didn't warrant its quality. The 



I50 A COLLIERS' COW-CLUB. 

workmen of the village, as sound practical men, saw their 
position, and their good common sense told them that if 
they could get cows of their own they could have as much 
pure milk as they needed. A meeting of the workpeople 
of the village was called, and the question discussed, and it 
was finally agreed to ' commence at once ' with a Co- 
operative Dairy Company. It really began life in August 
1872. Fifty-four people signified their intention to become 
members, and a capital of ^84 10s. was raised on shares 
of £1 each. The employers promised to let the co- 
operators have the land at the same price they themselves 
were paying for it, and also promised to erect all the build- 
ings at a mere nominal cost. 

"Seven full-bred cows wxre got to commence with, but 
one great difficulty at this early commencement was the 
question of water. The men themselves sank a deep well, 
but owing to the nature of the strata through which it was 
sunk the water would not stay in the well, but leaked out. 
It is even now a source of much trouble, so much so that 
very often the owners of the collieries have to lend water for 
the society, which is always done free. Hay, manure, etc., 
are all conveyed to and fro by the employers' horses and 
carts free of cost, also the dairy man and woman are by the 
Coal Company allowed house and coals free. At the end 
of the first half-year a dividend of 10 per cent, per annum 
was declared, when a call of 5^-. per share was made, and 
the number of members increased by 63, which made a 
total of riy. The capital now increased to ^220 Gs. 6d. 
For three years the society each year paid a dividend of 
10 per cent., while their number of cows had increased to 13. 

*' It was here imagined by the committee that * half-breds ' 
would feed on the land at disposal better than * fiiU-breds.' 
Accordingly the committee resolved to dispense with the 



A COLLIERS' COW-CLUB. 151 

latter and purchase the former, which resolve was carried 
into effect. * I tliink,' says my informant, ' this was a grave 
mistake, as all our " half-breds " are being disposed of and 
we are as fast as possible getting back " fuU-breds." ' 

''Since 1875 the dividend has averaged 7 per cent, per 
annum. But even this dividend has been got under the 
most trying difficulties — difficulties strong enough to break 
down any ordinary enterprise of the kind. Each year the 
society sustained the loss of a cow, and from '77 to '79 the 
colliery was entirely 'laid in.' This caused large numbers 
of workmen to leave the village, which diminished the 
demand for milk. However, nothing daunted, the remain- 
ing members set to work and sought out new markets for 
their milk. A market was got at a town four or five miles 
away, to which town the society sent forty quarts daily. 
This energetic step enabled the co-operators to tide over 
the two years of the colliery's standing still with success. 
When work recommenced in the village, the inhabitants 
again took all the milk. To both members and non- 
members milk is sold at threepence per quart, pure milk. 
The society has not a monopoly, as other milk vendors 
come to the village. 

" And now, amidst all the fearful depression of trade, 
this noble little enterprise has held up its head and flourished, 
notwithstanding the promoters of the Dairy Society were 
pitmen. The great cause of success has been earnestness 
and purity of purpose. If these qualities had not prevailed 
to a great extent, you may depend that instead of now 
numbering 108 members and owning ;£^2 2 2 i8j-., and 13 
cows and other property, the North Seaton Dairy Society 
would have been among the 

" ' Little systems that have had their day, 
Had their day and ceased to be. ' " 



152 



A COLLIERS' COW-CLUB. 



The following Is a copy of the nineteenth 
half-yearly balance sheet issued last July : — 

Cash Account. 

Receipts — yiine 2i^th, 1882. 

£ s. cL 



To Cash in hand 


. 


. 


. 


. 


6 


2 


3l 


Milk money . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


170 


5 


Si 


Cows sold 


. 


£-11 


2 








Calves sold 


. 


6 



















- 


^Z 


2 


r\ 








\J 




£ 


259 


9 


9 




Payments. 






















€ 


s. 


d. 


By paid for cows 


. 


. 






83 


13 





Provender 


. 


. 






71 


3 


8 


Manager's wages 


. 


£z^ 


19 c 


) 








Other wages . 


• 


2 


4 


35 


•^ 


r\ 















\J 


Printing and stationery 











12 





Railw^ay carriage 


. 








•-> 



6 





Incidentals 


. 








4 


4 


I 


Withdrawals . 


. 








2 


5 


2 


Manure for fields 


. 








8 


10 


7i 


Committee's expenses 








I 


6 


6 


President 


. 











10 





Treasurer and secretary 








3 


10 





Auditors . 


. 











10 





Rent of room . 


, 











5 





Balance in hand 


• 








44 


10 


8j 



^259 9 9 



A COLLIERS' COW-CLUB. 



153 



Capital Account. 












Liabilities. 




jC 


s. 


it. 


To members' claims 


• 


222 


15 


3 


Reserve fimd . 


. 


. 


26 


17 


III 


Rent of fields . 


. 


. 


33 


10 





Balance of profits 


• • • 


^ 


17 










300 


3 


2| 




Assets. 




£ 


s. 


ct. 


By value of cows 


. 




192 


18 





Goods in stock 


. 




45 


9 


9i 


Fixed stock 


. 




12 


8 


o.| 


Outstanding accounts 




4 


16 


H 


Balance in hand 


. 




44 


TO 


8 



^300 3 2| 



Profit account. 

To interest on ^220 15^-. 3^/., at 5 

per cent, per annum 
Reserve fund ..... 
Reduction of fixed stock . 



By balance of profits 



5 II 4i 
700 

4 8 7i 

.£17 o o 

£ s. d. 

17 o o 

^17 o o 



When one reads an account like this, it 
certainly does make one hope that the time is 
not far distant when the labourers and cowmen 



154 A COLLIERS' COW-CLUB. 

of the finest dairy districts In England may 
learn to follow the example of the Northumbrian 
colliers. 

When one remembers, moreover, that we 
have high medical authority for the statement, 
that notwithstanding the higher wages and In 
other respects the undoubtedly improved posi- 
tion of the rural labourer, his bodily physique 
has steadily of late years deteriorated, owing 
very greatly to the loss of milk as a regular 
article of diet, one can well understand with 
what manifold advantages, not merely econo- 
mical, any system would be fraught which 
would revive once more the custom of cow- 
keeping, at one time almost universal amongst 
the English peasantry. It is altogether most 
lamentable that at the present time large 
numbers of the children of farm labourers 
should be brought up scarcely ever tasting the 
natural diet of childhood. 

One is glad, however, to know that there are 
parts of England where this subject is receiving 
from the landlords that attention which is its 
due, and where efforts have been successfully 
made to introduce cow-keeping by the labourers. 
1 am indebted to Lord Tollemache, of Helm- 



A COLLIERS' COW-CLUB. 155 

ingham, for a most interesting pamphlet on 
this subject, by Mr. Henry Evershed, reprinted 
from the Royal Agricultural Society's Journal 
for 1879. From that paper I gather that on 
the Helmlngham Estate cow-keeping by 
labourers has been for several years eminently 
successful, and entirely free from the drawbacks 
which the opponents of peasant farming of any 
kind are only too ready to discover and to 
magnify Into insuperable difficulties. This Is 
Mr. Evershed's report : — 

" The Helmingbam Estate lies in the middle of the 
Cheshire dairy district. The farms average about 200 acres 
each, and about three men — cowman, horseman, and labourer 
— are employed on each. Nearly all the labourers, as well as 
some of the small tradesmen on the estate, keep cows. There 
are about 300 cottages; at the time of my visit 260 of the 
cottagers were cow-keepers, and before the close of the year 
seven others were to be added to their number. Any man 
who finds himself in a position to keep a cow is enabled to 
do so by an allotment of pasturage to his cottage. About 
three acres suffice for the keeping of a cow, of which about 
one acre is mown, one-quarter of an acre is in tillage, and 
the rest is pasture. The rent oi the land is the same as 
that of the adjacent farming land. Generally speaking, the 
three acres required for a cow are attached to the cottage, 
but in some cases a pasture is set apart for cottagers' cows, 
and 305. per cow is charged for grazing. The organization 
of the system is perfect. The butter is collected and 



156 A COLLIERS' COW-CLUB. 

marketed by small dealers, residing generally on the estate 
and being themselves cow-keepers." 

To this information may be added the testi- 
mony of Mr. Stephen Crawley, of Tarporley, 
Lord Tollemache's agent : — 

" The labo'.irer has, comparatively speaking, a plentiful 
board for his family, and at a cheap rate. He has his cow, 
pig, and land to occupy his spare hours, which might other- 
wise be spent in the beerhouse. His family have an 
opportunity from their infancy of taking part in the manage- 
ment of stock, and this is most necessary if they are tu grow 
up into thorough stockmen. The chief benefit derived by 
the farmers is that when they have the nomination of tenants 
of cow-keeping cottages, they can obtain the best and most 
intelligent men, who, but for the advantages of a cow, would 
drift into the large towns." 

I regret that I am not able to give in extenso 
the Rules of the excellent Cow Insurance Clubs 
which form so important an element in the 
success of the system. In his letter to myself 
on this point, Lord Tollemache says — " If you 
do establish this system, which answers admir- 
ably, you ought to urge those who keep cows 
to establish cow clubs. The system of begging 
for assistance in case of the death of a cow is 
very objectionable indeed. As a proof of how 
well these clubs answer, worked entirely by the 



A COLLIER'S COW-CLUB. 157 

labourers themselves, I may tell you that I 
never by any chance have an application for 
assistance owing to the death of a cow." 

Similar evidence to that given above con- 
cerning the Helmingham Estate has been 
collected by Mr. Evershed from other parts of 
the country. "Nowhere," he says, "have I 
met with a single objector to the system of 
cow-keeping by labourers among any persons 
who are practically acquainted with the system, 
though some have objected to it who have 
never seen it." 



CHAPTER XII. 

A CO-OPERATIVE CO IV CLUB IN BUCKS. 

" Hi ! diddle, diddle, the cat and the fiddle. 
The cow jumped over the moon." 

About sixteen months ago there met In my library 
at Granborough some score or so of agricultural 
labourers, who had come together to see what 
could be done towards fairly launching them- 
selves as a society upon, to them, the unknown 
seas of co-operative enterprise. I need hardly 
say to those who know anything of the cautious- 
ness, not to say wary stolidity of the Bucks 
rural mind, that it had not been without a good 
deal of effort, spread over a long period of time, 
that this point had been reached. Ten years 
ago, when I first began work in the county, I 
did not then appreciate, as I trust I do now, 
the fact that the stability of an institution is 
very much in proportion to the slowness of its 
growth to maturity, and so, in the inexperience 



A CO-OPERATIVE COW CLUB. 159 



of those days, did not sec that the step from 
the conception of a good idea to Its reahsatloa 
was not Hkely to be so short as I had Imagined. 
And such a good Idea I thought I had In co- 
operation, as a principle to be appHed, by 
associated labourers, to the trade of cow-keeping 
and small dairy-farming. 

Co- ope rative Da hy-Fa rm ing. 

In the year 1872, In a lecture on "The Labour 
Question " (then becoming a very burning 
question Indeed, owing to the agitation of the 
agricultural labourers, so nobly generalled by 
Joseph Arch), and which was afterwards repub- 
lished in my "Village Politics," I ventured to 
make the following suggestion : — " Some appli- 
cation of the principle of co-operation, if 
political economists tell us rightly. Is sure to be 
tried in the future in agriculture, as elsewhere. 
Why, then, I would ask, should not the experi- 
ment be made in the direction of associations 
among the labourers, not only for the purposes 
of strike, or a forced rise In wages, but for pur- 
poses of direct production ? Would It not be 
possible to establish In the agricultural districts, 
such of them, at any rate, as are chiefly pastoral, 



i6o A CO-OPERATIVE CO IV CLUB. 

societies organised upon co-operative, or, more 
strictly speaking, joint-stock principles, by 
which cow-keeping, dairy-farming, in fact, on 
a small scale, might be successfully undertaken 
by the associated labourers ? Such an experi- 
ment, if carried out with success, would certainly 
be most valuable, as tending to develop habits 
of self-reliance and self-government in village 
communities. It is by experiment only that 
the final and satisfactory solution of any pro- 
blem is ultimately reached. And for this 
reason, if for no other, it appears to me the 
experiment I have suggested is, at least, worthy 
of trial." 

Dijficidties of Propagandism. 

The same idea, with more detail, I continually 
pressed upon my labouring parishioners, in 
season and out of season, until I fear, to some 
of them, '' the Parson with Co-op. Cows on the 
brain " became rather a bore than otherwise. 
However, parsons, I suppose, get used to being 
thought bores, and so I went on preaching. 
My most opportune occasion for making co- 
operative converts was always in the winter 
months, when I was accustomed to meet the 



A CO-OPERATIVE COW CLUB. i6i 

men for night-school work and talk about things 
in general, and especially at the annual supper 
of the tenants on my glebe allotments. Here, 
by virtue of telling them such inspiring stories 
as that of the Rochdale Pioneers, and how 
" the famous Twenty-eight," beginning with 
twopence a week subscriptions, commenced 
business in 1844 with twenty-eight members and 
£2'^ capital, had increased the following year 
to seventy-four members, with ^181 capital, 
having made ^22 profit on business done to 
the extent of ^710; and in 1876 to 8,892 
members, with ^254,000 capital, having made 
;^50,668 profit on business done to the extent 
of ^305,190, I occasionally succeeded in mak- 
ing a few converts, who, however, generally 
" lapsed " (at any rate from any desire for 
practical experiment) when the spring field 
work put an end to winter talks. 

Many a time I feared that all my preaching 
was going to be in vain. I had not then, as I, 
said, learnt the lesson of the parable either of 
the oak-tree or Jonah's gourd., 

''Spell it with ait S." 

In the early part of last year, however, I 

II 



i62 A CO-OPERATIVE COW CLUB. 

was lucky enough to persuade Miss Hart, who 
has been doing such good work lately for co- 
operation and the principle of participation in 
profits among the workmen's clubs of London 
and elsewhere, by her lectures, on the French 
house-painter Leclaire, and his scheme of co- 
operative industry, and on the Irish agricultural 
co-operative estate at Ralahine, to come down 
to Granborough to deliver to the labourers this 
latter lecture. She had a crowded room and 
an enthusiastic audience, and the pathos and 
generous sentiment with which she told that 
story of noble effort and self-sacrificing endea- 
vour, with, alas ! its too sad ending, fired their 
hearts with a desire to make trial of the new 
principle. A committee of some half-dozen or 
so was chosen to draw up rules for the proposed 
association, and after some unavoidable delay in 
procuring the necessary Government Registra- 
tion, the Society was fairly ready to be launched. 
At the meeting to which I have already alluded, 
it was found that there were some twenty-three 
members ready to join as lOi". shareholders, but 
who were not In a position to i)ay up at once 
the whole amount. Some eight or nine pounds 
for the present was, in fact, all that we could 



A CO-OPERATIVE COW CLUB. 163 

command by way of capital. What was to be 
done ? That would not buy even one co-op. 
cow. A brilliant thought, however, struck one 
of the men, worthy of the immortal " Spell it 
with a wee, Sammy, spell it with a wee ! " of 
the elder Weller. *' Spell it with an S, sir," 
said one of the men — ''spell it with an S!" 
And so we did. For Co-op. "Cows" we wrote 
Co-op. '' Sows." On the 7th June the Gran- 
borough Co-operative Association fairly opened 
business as the proprietor of two fine brood 
sow pigs ; and, to cut a long story short, here 
was I in October its proud President, just 
returned home from my holiday, greeted almost 
as I entered the village with the stirring news, 
" Please, sir, the co-op. sows have got eigh- 
teen little pigs ! " 

The Poetry of Co-ope7^ative Pig-keepmg. 

Talk of co-operation and enthusiasm ! here's 
co-operative enthusiasm indeed ! A fortnight 
ago the twenty-nine members of the society 
could only be set down as the owners of scarcely 
the fifteenth part of a pig between them, and 
now each member may claim almost a pig 
apiece. O wonderful dispensation of nature ! 



i64 A CO-OPERATIVE COW CLUB. 

beneficent principle of increase ! O glorious 
virtues of co-operation ! Talk of poetry. Why, 

1 believe each of us at this crisis in our fortunes 
felt himself a very Herrick ready to sing as 
he did of the 

" Plenty dropping hand 

That soils my land, 
And giv'st me for my bushel sown 

Twice ten for one ; 
Thou makest my teeming hen to lay 

Her egg each day ; 
Besides my healthful pigs to bear 

Thrice nine each year, 
The while the conduits of my kine 

Run cream for wine." 

The Prose of the Matter : Rules and 
Regulations, 

But to return to the prose of the matter. 
The rules of the society, which is registered 
under the Industrial and Provident Societies 
Act, are divided into two sets — special and 
general. The general rules, numbered i to 144, 
are those juiblished by the Central Board of 
the Co-operative Union, and approved by the 
Government Registrar. I should strongly re- 
commend any proposing founders of village 
co-operative societies to adopt these " Model 



A CO-OPERATIVE CO IV CLUB. 165 



Rules " in their entirety. They may easily do 
this, whatever the special objects of their society 
may be, by means of special rules, which the 
general secretary, Mr. E. V. Neale, will prepare 
for them, if applied to at No. 2, City Buildings, 
Corporation Street, Manchester. The general 
rules are kept in stock, and sold at 2d. a copy, 
for a book of fifty pages, so that a society may 
get a hundred copies made up with its own 
special rules for little more than £\. The 
special rules of the Granborough Co-operative 
Association, Limited, were drawn up by myself, 
in consultation with our committee of seven 
labouring men, and were kindly revised by Mr. 
Neale. They are as follows : — 

Granborough Co-operative Society. — " I. General Rule 3. 
— The name of this society is the Granborough Co-operative 
Association, Limited. 

" II. General Rule 3. — The objects of the society are to 
carry on the trades of cowkeepers and dairy farmers, and of 
general dealers both wholesale and retail. 

"III. General Rule 4. — The registered office of the society 
shall be at the Parish Room, in the Vicarage of Granborough, 
in the county of Buckingham. 

"IV. General Rule 22. — The shares shall be of the 
nominal value of ten shillings, of which four shillings shall 
be paid on allotment, and the remainder by instalments of 
not less than threepence per week. 



i66 A CO-OPERATIVE COW CLUB. 

*' V. General Rule 27. — No member shall hold more than 
one hundred shares. 

"VI^ General Rules 34 and 35. — Repayment of shares. 
These rules shall apply to all the transferable shares of the 
society. 

"VII. General Rule 37. — No withdrawable shares shall 
be allotted except on the resolution of a majority of 
two-thirds of the members present at a special general 
meeting. 

" VIII. General Rule 68.— The Annual Meetings.— After 
the first general meeting there shall be only one ordinary 
business meeting in each year, which shall be held on the 
first Monday in May. 

"IX. General Rules 85, 86, and loi. The Committee 
shall consist of the president, vice-president, treasurer, secre- 
tary, and five committee-men, of which nine members three 
shall retire at each annual meeting. 

" X. General Rule 93. — The Committee shall meet on 
the first Monday evening in each month. 

"XI. General Rule no. — The seal of the society shall 
have the device of a milking stool, with the motto vwUiter 
jiiulce. 

"XII. General Rules 127 and 141. — Application of 
Profits. — The net profits of the society, after providing 
for rent, rates, taxes, interest and redemption of loans, 
insurance, and all expenses of management, shall be 
apportioned by the annual meetings in the following 
manner : — 

{(i) In forming a depreciation fund of ten per cent, on 

all property of the society. 
(A) In paying such dividend on all fully paid-up 
shares as mjiy be determined by each annual meet- 
ing. 



A CO-OPERATIVE COW CLUB. 167 

(<■) In forming a *' Public Good " Fund, to promote the 
moral and intellectual welfare of the members, and 
to disseminate a knowledge of the principles of the 
co-operative faith. 

Of the General Rules the following are those 
which relate to the conditions of membership : — 

" 9. Payment on Application for Membership, — Every 
person shall pay, on applying for admission, the sum of is., 
for which he shall receive a copy of the rules. 

" II. Application by an Individual. — An application by 
an individual may be made either in the form contained 
in Rule 140 (given below), or by making such payment as 
is required upon an application for admission, and the sig- 
nature of a receipt for a copy of the rules in the form con- 
tained in the said rule, either by the applicant or on his 
behalf. 

*' 12. How AppUcations shall be dealt with. — Every 
application for admission shall be considered by the 
committee at its first meeting after it is made, or so soon 
thereafter as is practicable ; and if it is approved, the 
name of the applicant shall be entered on the list of 
members and the register of shares hereinafter mentioned, 
for the number and description of shares required 
to be held by the rules, or any larger number applied 
for and allowed to be held thereby, upon such approval 
and such confirmation thereof, if any, as the society may 
direct. 

" 13. Notice of Refusal or Admission. — Notice of the re- 
fusal of an application, or of the entry of the name of any 
applicant on the list of members, signed by the secretary, 
shall be sent to the applicant, at the address mentioned on 



i68 A CO-OPERATIVE COW CLUB. 

the form of application or receipt, within one week after 
such refusal or entry is made. 

" 14. Repayment of the Entrance Fee. — The sum paid 
on an application for admission shall be repaid on de- 
mand to the person by whom or on whose behalf it 
was or purports to have been paid, within one calendar 
month after the date of the said notice in the cases follow- 
ing :— 

(i) If the application is refused ; 

(2) If it is not granted within three calendar months after 
the application ; 

" (3) If it is based on a payment made on behalf of any 
person without his authority. 

" 140. (i) Application for Admission by an Indivi- 
dual : 

" (a) By Applicaiicn for Shares — I, the undersigned, 
hereby apply for [transferable] shares in the above- 

named society, in respect of which I agree to make the pay- 
ments required by the rules of the society, and otherwise to 
be bound thereby. 

" Signature of applicant, stating his address and occupa- 
tion." 

"(/') By Payment for a Copy of Rules. — Received this day 
a copy of the rules of the above-named society, for which I 
have paid [on account of the undermentioned applicant] the 
sum recjuired to be paid on an application for admission to 
the society. . 

" Signature as above, or if the payment is made by 
any other person than the applicant, of this person, 
stating the name, address, and occupation of the appli- 
cant." 

Members of our society natiinilly had to put 



A CO-OPERATIVE COW CLUB. 169 



up with ci good deal of mild chaff from the wits 
of the neighbourhood, which I am bound to 
say they have hitherto borne with a very com- 
mendable degree of equanimity. Here is a 
specimen, addressed to the President about 
Christmas time. 

Hi! diddle, diddle! 

''Well, Vicar, how does the cow-club get 
on ? You have not turned the ' S ' into a ' C ' 
yet, I hear. But no doubt the club prefers 
bacon rashers to roast beef for its Christmas 
dinner. By-the-bye, as the Co-op. Cow still 
seems 'up in the air,' I wonder you don't 
change that very humble device of the milking 
stool on your corporate seal. What do you 
say, now, to the ' Cow that jumped over the 
moon,' with the legend 'Hi! diddle, diddle!' 
for a motto ? That would surely be more 
ambitious and appropriate. Well, good 
morning ! a merry Christmas to the Co-op. 
piggies ! " 

Those may laugh who win. We did not 
forget, luckily, that there has always been 
subject for ridicule in the early chapters of the 
history of all new social experiments, and that 



170 A CO-OPERATIVE COW CLUB. 

the co-operative movement has been no ex- 
ception to the rule. When Robert Owen 
opened the first Labour Exchange in London it 
was an easy matter to laugh at "the greatest 
philanthropist in the world, the correspondent of 
all the monarchs of Europe," as a retail dealer 
in pink-eyed potatoes, short dips, and treacle. 
There was subject also for raillery, no doubt, in 
the barrowful of provisions with which the Roch- 
dale Pioneers first set up shop. All the 
''doffers" of Toad-lane were in a roar when this 
humble stock-in-trade was first exposed to view. 
But the Pioneers have the laugh on their side 
now, when "the owd weaver s shop" has become 
a large Central Store, " a commanding pile of 
buildings which it takes an hour to walk 
through," situated on the finest site in Rochdale, 
overlooking the Town Hall and Parish Church, 
with a turnover of ^270,000 a year, and an 
annual net profit of more than ^30,000. 

And so we Granborough co-operators took 
heart to face even worse troubles than nursery 
rhyme banter. Not that we have any cause as 
yet to lose heart. If our progress has not been 
brilliant it has been steady. When we com- 
menced business a little over sixteen months ago 



A CO-OPERATIVE COW CLUB. 171 



we had 23 members and a capital of £^. In 
1882 we had got to 44 members and a capital 
of over ^30. At our committee meeting on 
November 29th we found upon balancing the 
accounts for the half-year that we had made a 
net profit of ^5 ys. \id., on a total expenditure 
of ^18 145., or more than 25 per cent, on the 
capital Invested. These results we are disposed 
to think were not unsatisfactory, and although 
we are all still anxious to see Co operative 
Cows grazing In the Granborough meadows, our 
present experience of pIg-keepIng you may be 
sure Is at any rate not likely to lessen our 
respect for the co-operative virtues of that 
" gintleman what pays the rent," as the Irish 
say.* 

An *' ex-Irish Landlord" writes to the Times: — "Mr. 
Bright says, * It is obvious to any one who knows anything 
of these matters that capital employed in apiculture in any 
country must be absolutely unprofitable to the cultivator if 
he has to pay a rate of interest such as 24 per cent.' For 
Mr. Bright's benefit I hope you will let the following story 
appear, for the truth of which I can vouch. A clever little 
Irishman, then a tenant of my own, told me that 2s. 6d. per 
month was often charged as interest upon ;£ i sterling, and 
said that he had himself borrowed £1 on those terms — viz., 
150 per cent, per annum. 'How on earth, Johnny,' said I, 
♦ did you do that ? ' ' Well, your honour,' was his answer, 



172 A CO-OPERATIVE COW CLUB. 

Every one knows La Fontaine's story of little 
Perette going to market to buy eggs. The 
eggs are hatched into chickens. The chickens 
produce a pig. In time the pig becomes a 
calf, and the calf grows into a cow. It is this 
dream of Perette that we Granborough co- 
operators hope to realize.* 

Whether we shall succeed or not I cannot 
say. But if we do not, then I trust some one 
else will. For of this, at; least, I am quite sure, 
that even failure will not disprove the principle 
of co-operation. 

Conclusion. 

Indeed, I venture to say, finally, that if 
we are ever to succeed in raising the platform 
of Industrial Morality, and healing what 
is at present, I fear, the standing feud 
between Capital and Labour, it must be by the 
substitution of the principles of co-operative 

' when I got the pound I bought a bhonnal (a little pig) for 
15J. ; with the other 5^. I paid two months' interest, and 
before the third month was out I sold my pig for ^3, and 
paid off the debt and interest, and had ^^i \']s. 6d. in my 
pocket.' " 

* '^/une 10///, 1883. Two heifers bought, ^21 lojr." 
— Extract from Books 0/ the Sociity. 



A CO-OPERATIVE COW CLUB. 173 

faith for that spirit of competitive selfishness 
which now forms the orthodox foundation of 
economic science. The ideal of co-operation 
is, indeed, a noble one, for it means "the trans- 
formation of human life, from a conflict of 
classes struggling for opposite Interests, to a 
friendly rivalry in pursuit of a good common to 
all : the elevation of the dignity of labour, a 
new sense of security and independence in the 
labouring class, and the conversion of each 
human being's daily occupation into a school of 
the social sympathies and the practical intelli- 
gence 



APPENDIX I. 



EXTRACT FROM THE EAST ANGLIAN DAILY 
TIMES, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 30TH, 1879. 

"Garden Farming in Eastern Counties. 

" The opening of a new vegetable, root, and general 
produce market at Stratford, in a densely populated part of 
London, and yet within easy reach from every railway in 
the Eastern Counties, renders garden farming a far more 
important local industry than it has hitherto been considered. 
Times are deeply depressed in the agricultural world, and 
great interest therefore attaches to an enterprize which 
affords a new opening for the capital and skill of the farmer 
who does not look down upon market gardening simply as 
the employment of the cottager. Hitherto the Eastern 
Counties, though favourably situated, have done little in 
this branch of cultivation, and vegetables sent to London 
have been chiefly consigned to Spitalfields and Covent 
Garden. The consequence has been, that the immense 
population on the northern and eastern outskirts of London 
have been as unable to obtain vegetables fresh, or in any 
quantity, as if there were no supplies sent up at all. The 
population of Stratford alone, where the new market is 
situated, is 120,000, and adjoining it are Bow, Bromley, 
Stepney, Limehouse, Canning Town, West Ham, Woodford, 
Forest Gate, Leytonstone, etc., containing in all a^^popula- 



176 APPENDIX I. 



tion of fully 500,000. When the immense amount of vege- 
tables required for this market alone is considered, and the 
consequent almost unlimited demand borne in mind, it will 
easily be understood that the scope for market garden farm- 
ing is very large. The Great Eastern Railway Company 
have erected the Stratford Market on land adjoining their 
system, and were induced to take this course in consequence 
of the belief that, if the means of distribution were more 
perfect, the cultivation of garden produce would become 
more general. They have offered this branch of agriculture 
further encouragement, by greatly reducing the rates of 
carriage of garden produce to the Stratford Market from all 
places on their line \ and so well has it sold, both there and 
in the old markets, that ten per cent, profit on the outlay 
for cultivation is found to be a fair average. 

" The Company look mainly for their profits to the large 
amount of traffic which it is anticipated the market will 
bring on to the rails, and have let their warehouses at a 
merely nominal rent, while at the same time no charges 
are payable by those who merely sell ex truck direct into 
cart. The vegetables forwarded to the warehousemen for 
sale have been put on the trucks at places in Lincolnshire, 
Cambridgeshire, Norfolk, Hertfordshire, and Essex, and up 
to the present time, have reached a total of 200 tons per 
week, in addition to which the salesmen have consigned 
direct to customers a considerable quantity of produce. A 
ready demand has been experienced for all that has been 
sent to the market, and it is hoped that when farmers and 
growers in the Eastern Counties become alive to the advan- 
tages of this branch of agriculture, and are aware of the 
facilities offered for the disposal of vegetables of all kinds, 
a greater supply will be sent up, as there is ample accom- 
modation and demand for it. 



APPENDIX I. 177 



"At the present time, large quantities of the commoner 
vegetables, such as potatoes, turnips, onions, cabbages, etc., 
are grown in Lincolnshire, Yorkshire, and so far north as 
Scotland, and sent up to the London markets, where, not- 
withstanding the cost of cartage to the station, railway 
carriage, and dealers' commission, they are sold at profitable 
prices. It is the fact that, given a piece of land not too 
far from a railway station, properly managed, and within 
90 miles of London, or other large centre of population, it 
can be made to pay handsomely under a system of garden 
cultivation, and the farmers of the Eastern Counties have 
in this branch of agriculture one means of avoiding that 
stagnation and depression which exists now because of the 
failure of the crop which has been chiefly relied on for 
profit. 

" In considering the subject, it may be well to point out 
a few of the leading items of expenditure, and the position 
which the various products hold in the London market. 
Potatoes, although a precarious crop by reason of their 
liability to disease and sensitiveness to the extremes of 
the weather, are yet found to make enough profit to en- 
courage their growth in all parts of the country. Failure 
has, in many cases, induced farmers to abandon them as 
field crops, but inasmuch as they are one of the staple 
wants of the people everywhere, they cannot long remain in 
disfavour. A liberal application of manure under any 
circumstances is necessary, if a full crop is to be obtained. 
Farmyard dung, guano, and nitrate of soda are chiefly used, 
and although the * home supply ' of the former is neces- 
sarily limited, what is lacking can be made up by stable and 
cow-shed manure and garbage from the slaughter-houses of 
London, which can be obtained at about Zs. a ton, to 
which of course has to be added the cost of railway carriage. 

12 



178 APPENDIX I. 



It may be taken as a basis that manure will cost ;^i5 an 
acre, and to this must be added that of seed and labour. 
Notwithstanding the quantities of potatoes that are brought 
from abroad, fair samples make from ;zf 5 to ^^8 a ton, and 
eight tons per acre is a good crop. In the winter the price 
advances to j[,\o. White turnips will make 30^. to 35 J. 
per ton in the London market, while carrots, which are 
deservedly esteemed and sought after, make 30^. to 505. 
a ton. Although the latter roots are universally grown in 
gardens, they have not as yet attained to general cultivation 
as a field crop. There are certain practical difficulties con- 
nected with their culture on a large scale, but the precarious- 
ness in the growth of potatoes, turnips, and clover, and the 
consequent necessity for a greater variety of green crops 
both for men and cattle, entitle the carrot to increased 
attention as a field crop. It is on sandy and light loamy 
soils, and those of a peaty nature, that it is grown most 
successfully, and under these circumstances 15 tons per 
acre is an average crop, although with liberal manuring and 
skilful cultivation double the weight is sometimes obtained. 
Parsnips closely resemble carrots in culture and uses, but 
they possess advantages over the latter in being successfully 
grown on a much wider range of soils, and, unlike the 
carrot, it rather prefers those in which clay predominates. It 
appears to have received very little attention from culti- 
vators, for it is not sent to the markets in quantities at all 
reaching the demand for it. There is always a demand for 
cabbages, and they are at present more generally cultivated 
than anything else. They sell at 5^. 6^/. to 6jr. 6^/. per tally 
of five dozen, equal to about jQdo per acre. Onions take 
a great deal of care in their cultivation, but when landed in 
the market will repay the outlay and toil necessary for their 
successful growth. The gross returns on Lisbon onions is 



APPENDIX L 179 



between £,()o and £^']o per acre, while an average amount 
of over £^\^o per acre has been made in three years upon 
a large acreage of pickling onions in the neighbourhood of 
London. Besides these crops, there are peas and beans 
which can be successfully grown ; but there is much trouble 
in connection with picking them where labour is not abun- 
dant, and for this reason they are often a cause of annoy- 
ance. The average crop of peas is about 150 bushels per 
acre, and the average price obtained in the market is 2s. 
per bushel, or ^15 per acre. Coleworts are a good spring 
crop, and a gross return of jQioo an acre maybe made 
on them. Much profit may also be made out of the culti- 
vation of celery, spinach, rhubarb, lettuces, beetroot, and 
red cabbages for pickling, mint, sage, parsley, and other 
herbs. The judges in the competition for the prizes offered 
by the Royal Society of Agriculture for market garden 
farms, state that by dint of putting this and that fact to- 
gether, it was gathered that an average crop of radishes 
sown between the celery would make at least ^28 per 
acre, say 1,100 dozen bunches at 6d. per dozen ; and the 
celery planted in the rows between the beds of radishes 
would make from ^50 to ^60 per acre, taking an average 
of seasons, say from 1,000 to 1,200 dozen bunches at 12s. 
per dozen bunches. Again, take lettuces and celery to- 
gether, an average crop of lettuces would be worth about 
jQt,o per acre. Or a crop of coleworts and cabbages 
grown with celery would be worth from ;£2^ to ;^3o per 
acre, plus the value of the celery crop ; so that even if the 
expenses amounted to ;£"4o per acre, there would still be a 
good margin of profit. 

*' Market garden farming may require a large quantity 
of labour, and be in consequence expensive to carry on, 
but the returns are correspondingly large, and it has the 



i8o APPENDIX /. 



further recommendation of increasing the demand for its 
products as it becomes more widely extended, because it 
will put the power to buy into the hands of men both in 
towns and the country who have now barely the means of 
existence. This fact puts on one side the argument that 
if the practice of vegetable growing became more general, 
a supply would be created greater than the demands of the 
public warranted. It may be said that foreign competition 
will outdo the English growers as the American supplies 
have destroyed the profits on wheat cultivation ; but the 
perishable nature of vegetables gives the English growers 
a decided advantage, while the cost of production and 
the expense of freight will in all probability too heavily 
handicap the foreign producers, and leave the English 
cultivators a margin of profit. The carriage of vegetables 
which are imported from France amounts to ;^4 a ton, 
whilst the highest rate for an equal amount from any part 
of the Great Eastern system to the metropolis— that from 
Peterborough — is but i6i-. dd. Those sent from other 
countries, such as Holland, Belgium, and parts of Germany, 
have not to pay such high freightage as the French ones, 
but they do not arrive in such good condition in conse- 
quence of the greater length of the journey ; and the bulky 
and common vegetables, such as cabbages, turnips, and 
coleworts, are seldom sent from abroad, while by adopting 
some of the practices of foreigners for forcing — the bell- 
glasses used in the north of France, for instance — the 
markets could be well supplied early in the year. There 
does not seem to be any reason why men with moderate 
sized or small farms should not alternate ordinary crops 
with those of vegetables, and thus multiply the sources of 
their profit and increase their own and their country's 
welfare." 



APPENDIX II 



THE FEARGUS O'CONNOR ALLOTMENTS AT 
MINSTER LOVELL, IN OXFORDSHIRE. 

I am indebted for the following report upon the present 
condition of these allotments to my friend, Mr. T. Forster 
Rolfe, of All Souls' College, Oxford, who, at my request, 
kindly paid a visit to the estate last Christmas time. The 
causes of the failure of the original allottees under the 
O'Connor ballot are sufficiently evident from the first 
sentence of the Report : ** The men that came in the first 
allotment were many of them ignorant of how to plant, it 
being reported of one that he asked what he was to plant to 
make bread ; another sowed his turnips as thick as mustard 
and cress, and refused to thin them because they looked so 
flourishing ; another wished to know how many bushels of 
the same seed to sow to the acre. 

*' Its present condition. — Out of the eighty holdings at pre- 
sent, not more than six are cultivated by their owners. The 
present position of the occupiers is therefore principally 
interesting from the point of view of the success of small 
holdings when rented by agricultural labourers or very 
small farmers. P or it is not the case that every lot is held 
by a separate tenant or occupier — not a few lying next each 



1 82 APPENDIX II. 



other, or even a little distance off, are rented by the same 
man, and some of the few that self-own the one lot, rent 
other lots, and work them in connection with it. 

" A man holding a four-acre lot has but little time to 
give to other work, if he gets all the good that he can out 
of his piece ; still, on the other hand, such a holding will 
not by itself find sufticient to occupy his whole time. A 
three-acre lot, if anything, is worse than either of the other 
two, for this reason, whereas a two-acre lot is pronounced 
by the present occupiers to be far the most convenient 
holding of the three, as a man can take pretty regular work 
elsewhere, and, at the same time, find time to keep his own 
piece in a thoroughly profitable state of cultivation. 

" Quality of the soil. — ^One of the most important consi- 
derations in the question of the Minster Lovell Estate, is 
the varying nature of the soil : some lots have stone brash, 
some clay, and some both together ; if anything, the last 
is the most advantageous when rented, as the rental is not 
so high from the mixed character of the soil, whereas if the 
season is unfavourable to one part, it is probably favour- 
able to the other. Those with a clay soil are certainly the 
least desirable. 

'''■Produce. — The reason of this is, that the latter are the 
most uncertain soils in their returns to the potato crops, 
and this, as is natural in small holdings, is the most valu- 
able article of production on the estate. Wheat and 
barley are the other chief productions, roots also being 
grown in small quantities for pigs (and here and there a 
cow), carrots occasionally ; garden-stuff is grown just round 
the house ; black crops are sown occasionally. I know 
only of one case now in which a cow is kept, though many 
attempted it at first. The man Jacobs who keeps it, in this 
case, owns or rents altogether 15 acres, and therefore has 



APPENDIX IT. 183 



more opportunity of growing the proper stuff; with his 
four acres he originally tried it, but had to give it up." 

" Present Occupants. — The present occupants are a mixed 
class, — one, a Mr. Radbon, is a baker with a pretty flourish- 
ing trade : he not merely bakes for himself, but also for 
such other holders as choose to send their dough made up 
to him, at the rate of hi per loaf. Others are pork butchers, 
some, as said above, by combining more than one lot, have 
their whole time occupied at home, but the larger number 
are those that work part of the time on their own lots, 
part of the time on those of the larger holders, or on one of 
the neighbouring large farms. It is worthy of note, that a 
large farmer (a Mr. Clack), with his farm adjoining, uses 
almost all his labour from off the estate and elsewhere. 
The occupiers generally have no difficulty in obtaining 
work from the fact of their being themselves small holders. 

" The Union was at one time taken up by the present 
occupants, but now I think has no supporters there, but, on 
'the contrary, there is rather a spirit of opposition to it. 

" Morality. — Even within as short a space of time as ten 
years ago, the O'Connorville had a bad name, and was 
reported, though probably incorrectly, as not safe for pass- 
ing through at night. That the original occupants were 
doubtful characters, and rather light-fingered, there is no 
doubt, for scarcely any man's property, a few years after its 
formation, was reported to be safe unless under lock and 
key j but this class has dwindled more and more away, till 
within the last few years there is not one of them left. 
Nealy every householder now is reported to attend either 
Church or Chapel on the Sunday. The place is orderly at 
night, the occupiers are quiet people, and generally seem 
busily occupied with their land when at home. 

" House Accomjnodation, etc. — The house accommodation 



1 84 APPENDIX 11. 



on the estate, as compared with that in modern labourers' 
cottages, is not good, though probably, as compared with 
those put up at the time of their erection, the cottages were 
equally good, if not superior. The cottage is of one story 
only, and oblong shaped, with three rooms — a sitting-room, 
and two bed-rooms, and accommodation for scullery, etc. 

'' Buildings. — They all have pigsties at the back, varying 
in number, and some a sort of barn, or building for putting 
straw, sacks of corn, or anything in ; some also have cart 
hovels, etc. 

" Influence of the Seasons. — The present season had a 
greater effect upon the holders of the lots in Minster Lovell 
than upon small holders of allotments in other parishes. So 
much of the land being heavy, has influenced the potato, 
and so, indirectly, the number of pigs kept and killed ; many 
not even having the money this season to purchase pigs, as 
they otherwise would have done, to eat up their waste stuff. 
The most palmy days of the industrious holders were those 
when a railway was not yet opened at Witney, and they 
conveyed all their potatoes by cart to Cheltenham, a 
distance of about 26 miles, where they found a well-paying 
market for them ; many more pigs also were kept at that 
time than are now. The present, therefore, in one respect, 
is a bad time to judge of their general success, except in 
the case ©f those holding them in their own right. Still 
the case of a man named Norridge, originally a poor man 
from near Woodstock, who has made his money by his own 
lot, since purchased, and is now living on such money 
without further work, proves, to a certain extent, what may 
be done by them. Jacob, another man mentioned below, 
did not come to Minster Lovell till the age of 30, and at 
the age of about 55 owns 4 acres, and rents 11 more, with 
two horses, cow, and other farming stock. The following 



APPENDIX II. 185 



statistics, therefore, must be taken for what they are 
worth : — 

^^/o/in Jacobs. — Four acres in own right, 11 rented at 
^31, 4 acres mixed land, 11 acres heavy clay, gave no 
statistics, except that he had lost, at present, on the three 
years that he had held the 1 1 acres. 

*' History. — At the age of 30, he took 2 acres in bad 
condition, he kept this on for one year, when he took 2 
more also in bad condition, and so kept on for three years, 
when, in consequence of his rent being raised, he gave up 
the last two, and kept on the other two for ten more years. 
At last took four-acre lot on yearly tenure, at the end of 
first year bought it (for ;^35o). This is his present holding, 
and is mixed land; gave up the two-acre lot, and put up 
buildings, etc., on his own ; went on with his own lot for 
six years, making money on it. Three years ago took 1 1 
acres of heavy land, on which he has lost since by the bad 
season. This last land he has drained, his landlord supply- 
ing tiles. He is also still, with the help of the same, putting 
up buildings, and improving place gradually. Notwith- 
ing the bad seasons, the land has been worked clean, though 
taken to in a bad condition ; employs two boys of the age 
of 14 and 17, keeps two cows and two horses. 

" Jacobs' history is a most remarkable one, as given by 
him in the Labourers' Union Chronicle (November 21st, 
1874). He was brought up at Old Weston, Hunts, as a 
poor boy, in the hardest of circumstances. After much 
knocking about, and marrying (according to his account) 
to get a greater share of relief, he came to Minster Lovell, 
where, as shown above, he has gradually thriven ever since. 
He is now a thoroughly hard-working man, always turning 
his hand to something, His buildings are a picture of 
neatness and ingenious construction ; the stones were all 



1 86 APPENDIX II. 



chopped by himself, and put together by himself on his 
own plan. The pigsties, especially, are perfect, and as 
solid as if built by the best mason; one of the disadvantages 
of the estates is a want of water for cattle, etc. Jacobs 
has remedied this by turning the quarry, from which he 
dug his stones, into a large reservoir for the drainage of 
the land, Hning it inside with cement. Jacobs' cottage is 
the neatest that I have entered on the Estate : everything 
is perfectly clean and put away in its right place. His wife 
is like himself, neat and bustling, and always ready to see 
you at the cottage when she knows you. Jacobs is by far 
the most interesting and progressing of all on the Estate, 
and is owned by all, except those jealous of him, to be by 
far the best workman." 



J 



» cv 
CO 



V. i 






p. 



Ri 



CI 

CI 



-t-> 

CO 






la 



c 






ail 



o 



UniverHty of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 



Acme Library Card Pocket 

Undet Fau "Rel. Indcu VUm" 

Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



