
Class JTXzHS 
CopyiightNi 



CDPnUGHT DEPOSm 







jAmes R.OsQooD ^ Co. 



IN 



BRIDGET'S VACATION 



BY 



SUSAN ANNA BROWN 

AUTHOR OK " FORTY I-UDDINGS," KTt . 



-, T ., 




BOSTON 

JAMES R. OSGOOD AND COMPANY 

1885 

COPYRIGHT, 1S84, BV SUSAN ANNA BROWN. 



\-. -V 






A\ 



4 



4^^ 



PREFACE. 



This little collection is intended for the help and 
consolation of housekeepers during those trying 
interregnums which occur now and then in the 
kitchen domain. 

Plain directions are given for twenty-one simple 
meals. Fancy dishes which require much time in 
their preparation are omitted. The receipts have all 
been tested, and, if carefully followed, will produce 
satisfactory results. 

With this friendly adviser hanging on the wall, 
ladies may see Bridget's departing form unterrified, 
and await her successor with the quiet security of 
those who know what to do and how to do it. 



INDEX. 



LEAF 

Apples, Baked 8 

Apple-sauce 32 

Asparagus 22 

Bacon, Fried 14 

Beans, Lima 10 

String -.U 

Beef Steak 20 

Roast 28 

Roll 4 

in Tomato-sauce ... 32 

Biscuits, Rolled (> 

Cakes, Coffee :i8 

Corn 20 

Cream 29 

Loaf 18 

Pinafore -Hi 

Quick 30 

Raisin 42 

Sponge 6 

Snowdrift 24 

Tea 12 

Chicken Croijuettes .... 12 

Chickens, Imperial .... 10 

Chocolate 42 

Chowder, Oyster 1.5 

Coffee, Boiled 2 

Steeped 20 

Corn 28 

Ducks, Roasted 40 

Eggs, Baked 14 

Creamed 42 

Figs, Pickled 4 

German Relish S6 

Gingernuts 12 

Halibut 22 

Lemon Puffs 35 

Lobster Salad 30 

Macaroni 4 

Mulfins, Diamond .... 32 

Graham 8 

Mush, Fried 26 

Mutton Broth 39 



LKAF 

Mutton Boiled 34 

Chops 2 

Victoria 38 

Oatmeal 2 

Omelet, Yosemite 8 

Pears, Baked 18 

Peas in Cream 40 

Pescado 24 

Pineapple Cream 41 

Pop-Ups 2 

Potatoes, Baked 20 

Boiled .... 4, 16 

Crusted .... 28 

French 2 

Glazed 40 

Mashed . . . 10, 34 

Raleigh .... 8 

Savory 14 

Welcome .... .32 

Pudding, Perfection .... 23 

Plum 17 

Rice, Boiled 16 

Sauce, Cranberry .... 10 

Pudding 17 

Soup, Beef .33 

Pea 21 

Tomato 3 

Veal . 27 

White 9 

Tapioca, Cream 11 

Tarts, Edinburgh .... ."55 

Tea, English Breakfast . . 6 

Oolong .36 

Russian 18, 30 

Toast, Buttered 14 

Cream .36 

Tomatoes, Baked 28 

Tongue 42 

Turnips 34 

Veal, Roasted 16 

Vitella 26 

Whips 5 



I 



J 



' ' 



In 



BILL OF FARE. 



FIRST DAY. 

COFFEE. OATMEAL. 

BREADED CHOPS. FRENCH POTATOES. 

POP-UPS. 

TOMATO SOUP. BEEF ROLL. 

MACARONL BOILED POTATOES. 

PICKLED FIGS. WHIPS. 

^ca ox %\xxK\xcon, 

ROLLED BISCUIT. SARDINES. 

APRICOTS. SPONGE CAKE. 

BREAKFAST TEA. 



FIRST DAY. 



Ir^aKfast. 



BOILED COFFEE. 

Allow one tablespoonful of ground coffee to each cup, 
and one extra spoonful. For four persons mix half of a 
raw egg, shell and all, with the dry coffee, and add a little 
cold water. Pour on two cups of boiling water, and let it 
boil ten minutes. Add two cups more of hot water, and 
let the coffee pot stand on the back of the stove three min- 
utes before serving. 

OATMEAL. 

Oatmeal must be prepared the day before it is wanted. 
Soak three cups of very coarse oatmeal two or three hours 
in cold water, then rinse in several waters to prevent its 
being sticky. Fill the kettle with boiling water, and cook 
at least two hours. If you have not a double boiler it 
must be stirred frequently. Add one tablespoonful of salt. 

BREADED CHOPS. 

Roll mutton chops in beaten egg, and then in sifted 
bread crumbs. Put in a buttered pan, and bake half an 
hour. 

FRENCH POTATOES. 

Cut raw potatoes in thick slices lengthwise, divdde each 
slice into strips, and fry in very hot lard. Dredge with 
salt. 

POP-UPS. 

Two and a half cups of pastry flour, add gradually 
two cups of sweet milk ; when smooth, add two well-beaten 
eggs and a pinch of salt. Have the gem-irons very hot 
and well buttered. Fill half full of the batter, and put a 
piece of butter as large as a pea on top of each. Bake 
about a half an hour in a hot oven and serve at once. 

2 



FIRST DAY. 



TOMATO SOUP. 

Boil one pint can of tomatoes with one-quarter of an 
onion half an hour. Strain through a colander, and add 
enough hot water to make a quart of juice. Return to 
the fire. Put a piece of butter, half as large as an agg 
into a frying-pan, and when hot, put in a slice of stale 
bread cut into dice. Stir until brown, and then put them 
into the tureen. Pour a little of the soup into the hot 
frying-pan with the browned butter, and when it boils, add 
one heaping teaspoonful of corn-starch stirred smooth 
with half a cup of cold water. Stir rapidly until it 
ceases to look milky. Then pour into the soup. Add 
a few grains of cayenne, and one small teaspoonful of salt. 



FIRST DAY. 



littiifr.— ^fcond (^oimi. 



BEEF ROLL. 

Take a very thick slice of round steak. Prepare a 
dressing by soaking a large coffeecupful of dry bread 
crusts in cold water. Drain off the water, add one 
tablespoonful of sage, one teaspoonful of marjorain, half 
a teaspoonful of black pepper, one heaping teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one teaspoonful of melted butter, quarter of a 
teaspoonful of grated onion. Spread this dressing 
evenly over the steak, and roll it up, tying it tightly 
with strips of cotton cloth. Secure the ends carefully, 
that the stuffing may not come out. Put three slices of 
salt pork in a kettle. Fry until the fat comes out, 
then lay in your roll of beef and turn until it is slightly 
brown. ' Take out the pork, and pour in hot water 
enough to cover the meat, add a small bit of onion and 
half a teaspoonful of powdered clove. Boil slowly two 
and a half hours. Remove the strings and pour the 
gravy over the meat. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Boil medium-sized potatoes half an hour. Drain off 
the water and let them dry before peeling. 

MACARONF. 

Break a dozen sticks of macaroni into short pieces, 
wash and boil about twenty minutes. Drain off what 
water remains, add one cup of milk and one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt ; when it boils, pour into a baking-dish, 
sprinkle the top with grated cheese, and bake until 
brown. 

PICKLED FIGS. 

Wash one pound of figs. Place in a bowl, and cover 
with hot vinegar, in which are a few whole cloves and 
a stick of cinnamon. Cover, and let them stand over 
night. 

4 



I 



FIRST DAY. 



imufr.— i^Iunl dfours^ 



WHIPS. 

One pint of good cream, half a teaspoonful of ex- 
tract of vanilla, half a cup of powdered sugar. Put 
in a deep bowl or a pail, and beat with a Dover 
egg-beater until it is stiff. Put a little strawberry or rasp- 
berry jam in each jelly-glass, and fill with the cream. 
Serve with lady-fingers. 



FIRST DAY. 



iea or Sundi«0tt. 

ENGLISH BREAKFAST TEA. 

Allow one teaspoonful of tea to each person. Scald 
the teapot thoroughly before putting in the tea, pour on 
boiling water, and let it stand in a warm place ten minutes. 
Do not add more water after it is steeped. 

ROLLED BISCUITS. 

One quart of pastry flour put in the sieve with one 
teaspoonful of soda and two teaspoonfuls of cream tar- 
tar (two of baking-powder may be substituted if you pre- 
fer). Sift, and then rub in one tablespoonful of butter. 
Wet witli two small cups of sweet milk. Take out on 
the board and roll out about half an inch thick. Spread 
oVer evenly with butter, using about two tablespoonfuls. 
Begin at the end towards you and roll up, cut slices an 
inch thick from the end of the roll, and lay in a but- 
tered tin. Bake ten or fifteen minutes in a quick 
oven. 

SARDINES. 

Serve with slices of lemon. 

CANNED APRICOTS. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

The weight of six eggs in sugar, and the weight of 
the three largest ones in pastry flour. 

Mix the yolks of the eggs with the sugar, add the juice 
and grated rind of a small lemon, and then the whites of 
the eggs beaten stiff, and then the flour, stirring only long 
enough to mix thoroughly. Bake in a quick oven with 
the door open a hair's breadth. 

6 



BILL OF FARE. 



SECOND DAY. 

grcalifast. 

COFFEE. OATMEAL. 

YOSEMITE OMELET. RALEIGH POTATOES. 

COLD BEEF. GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

BAKED APPLES. 

WHITE SOUP. IMPERIAL CHICKENS. 

MASHED POTATOES. LIMA BEANS. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Sea ov SttucTiC0u. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. TEA CAKE. 

CURRANTS. GINGERNUTS. 



SECOND DAY. 



COFFEE AND OATMEAL. 

As given for the first day. 

YOSEMITE OMELET. 

Put a piece of butter as large as half an egg into a tin 
dish and melt. Pour all but the salt, which will settle to 
the bottom, into the frying-pan, turning the pan until the 
melted butter covers the bottom. Beat four eggs (five if 
they are small) and add one coffeecup of sweet milk. 
Pour the mixture into the hot pan and cook on top of the 
stove until it is done round the edge, then set the pan in 
the oven and bake until it rises in the middle. It will 
take about five minutes. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
fold, and serve at once. Salt, if cooked in an omelet makes 
it leathery. 

RALEIGH POTATOES. 

Melt a piece of butter as large as a walnut in a stewpan, 
and then add one cup of rich milk (cream is preferable), 
when it boils add a thickening made by mixing one tea- 
spoonful of flour in a quarter of a cup of cold milk. Stir 
until it thickens and then add two cups of cold boiled or 
baked potatoes, cut in small pieces. Boil five minutes. 

COLD BEEF. 

Cut slices from yesterday's beef, roll and arrange on a 
platter. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

One pint of graham meal, half a cup of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of salt and one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 
Mix carefully, and then add one cup of milk with half a 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it, one beaten egg, and one 
tablespoonful of melted butter. Heat the gem-irons be- 
fore filling. 

BAKED APPLES. 

Bake sweet apples in a slow oven until tender, and serve 
with cream. 



SECOND DAY. 



WHITE SOUP. 
Boil two turnips, and when they begin to soften add 
three large raw potatoes, and half an onion. Boil 
until tender, drain off the water, mash, and add three 
pints of milk, one teaspoonful of salt, quarter of a 
teaspoonful of pepper, a little celery-salt, and one table- 
spoonful of butter. If celery is in season, two stalks 
may be boiled with the vegetables, and the celery-salt 
omitted. 



SECOND DAY. 



IMPERIAL CHICKENS. 
Stuff a pair of chickens with a dressing made of soaked 
bread flavored with salt, pepper, and sage. Truss as for 
roasting, and cook in a steamer. If they are less than a 
year old, an hour and a half will be sufficient, but old 
fowls will require a longer time. Make a gravy by rubbing 
two tablespoonfuls of flour with twice the quantity of butter, 
when smooth add one pint of the liquor which has dripped 
from the fowls while steaming, stir until it thickens. Cut 
two hard-boiled eggs in slices and lay over the chickens, 
pour the gravy over them, and garnish with parsley. 

MASHED POTATOES. 
Boil the potatoes, and mash thoroughly, adding one 
tablespoonful of salt, the same of butter, and half a 
cup of hot milk. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Three cups of cranberries, two cups of granulated 
sugar, one cup of cold water. Stew until the cranberries 
burst. Cool before serving. 

LIMA BEANS. 

If fresh, boil them an hour and a half and season with 
butter, salt and pepper. If canned, heat and season. 



10 



SECOND DAY. 



TAPIOCA CREAM. 
Soak four tablespoonfuls of tapioca in one and a 
half cups of cold water, three hours or more. Boil one 
quart of milk, and add the tapioca and water and the 
yolks of three eggs beaten with three quarters of a cup of 
sugar. Boil until it thickens a little. Remove from the 
fire and stir in the beaten whites of three eggs, a spoonful 
at a time. Flavor with half a teaspoonful of vanilla. 
Eat cold. 



II 



SECOND DAY. 



Wm or SunchfOtt. 

BREAKFAST TEA. 

As for the first day. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Two cupfuls of chicken, chopped very fine and measured 
without pressing, a quarter of a cupful of grated or chopped 
ham, if you have it, a quarter of a cupful of sifted bread- 
crumbs, one teaspoonful of salt, a quarter of a teaspoonful 
of pepper, a quarter of a teaspoonful of mustard, a pinch of 
mace, one teaspoonful of lemon juice. Heat with stock 
or gravy enough to moisten it (water will do), add one 
egg, beaten slightly, and stir for a minute. When cool, form 
into little rolls about an inch in diameter and four inches 
long, by rolling lightly on a board spread with sifted bread- 
crumbs ; then roll each in beaten egg and again in crumbs. 
Lift into the frying-basket, and plunge in very hot lard 
until they are a golden brown. Bread crumbs, if properly 
dried and sifted, are superior to cracker. 

TEA CAKE. 

A piece of butter as large as an egg, rubbed to a cream 
with half a cup of sugar, one cup of milk, one egg, one pint 
of flour with one heaping teaspoonful of baking powder 
in it. Bake in a biscuit-tin. If blueberries are in season 
add one cup of ripe berries with half a cup more flour 
sifted over them. 

CURRANTS. 

If fresh currants are out of season, substitute canned 
ones. 

GINGERNUTS. 

One cup of butter, half a cup of sugar, one cup of mo- 
lasses, half a cup of sour milk, one teaspoonful of ginger. 
Stir in pastry flour as long as you can stir it with a spoon, 
then add two teaspoonfuls of soda dissolved in two table- 
spoonfuls of boiling water, stir thoroughly, and drop from 
the spoon into little cakes in the dripping-pan. Bake in a 
moderate oven. 

12 



BILL OF FARE. 



THIRD DAY. 

COFFEE. OATMEAL. 

FRIED BACON. BAKED EGGS. 

BUTTERED TOAST. SAVORY POTATOES. 

OYSTER CHOWDER. ROAST VEAL. 

BOILED POTATOES. BOILED RICE. 

GRATED HORSERADISH. 

LETTUCE. PLUM PUDDING. 

$ea ox '^xmcUtom 

RUSSIAN TEA. FRESH BREAD. 

BAKED PEARS. 

CHIPPED BEEF. LOAF CAKE. 



13 



THIRD DAY. 



COFFEE AND OATMEAL AS BEFORE. 
FRIED BACON. 

Cut breakfast bacon in very thin slices, lay in a hot 
spider and cook until crisp. 

BAKED EGGS. 

Butter a deep pie-plate and pour in enough milk to cover 
the bottom. Break in as many eggs as the dish will hold, 
and bake until the white is set. Sprinkle on salt and pep- 
per and serve in the bake-dish. 

BUTTERED TOAST. 

Toast stale bread (baker's bread is best), dip the edges 
in hot water, and butter evenly. 

SAVORY POTATOES. 

Strain a little of the fat which is left from the bacon into 
a saucepan, and put in two cupfuls of cold boiled potatoes, 
chopped. Stir until brown. 



14 



THIRD DAY, 



itnnm— 4irst ^oursf. 



OYSTER CHOWDER. 

Fry three slices of salt pork in a deep kettle. Remove 
from the fire, and slice in six medium-sized potatoes and 
one onion previously boiled a few minutes in water, add 
pepper and salt, and cover the top with Boston crackers 
split in halves. Pour in hot water enough to cover, return 
to the fire and boil twenty minutes, then add one pint of 
oysters and one cup of hot milk. Boil up once and 
serve. 



15 



THIRD DAY. 



ROAST VEAL. 

Have the butcher remove the bone from a leg of veal, 
and fill the space left with a dressing made of bread, salt, 
pepper, and sage. Bake slowly from two to three hours, 
basting frequently. Make a gravy in the dripping-pan 
after the meat is removed by adding to the liquor a thick- 
ening made by stirring in two tablespoonfuls of browned 
flour wet with cold water. Strain. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Boil medium-sized potatoes half an hour, drain off the 
water and peel. 

BOILED RICE. 

Wash one cupful of rice, add two teaspoonfuls of salt, 
and put in a double boiler or teakettle-pail with one quart 
of boiling water. Boil twenty minutes, pour off the water, 
cover, and cook twenty minutes more. 

GRATED HORSERADISH. 

LETTUCE. 

Have the lettuce ice-cold and serve with any nice salad 
dressing. 



i6 



THIRD DAY. 



PLUM PUDDING. 

Three cups of flour, one small cup of chopped suet, one 
cup of milk, with one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it, 
one cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of salt, half a tea- 
spoonful of clove, half a teaspoonful of cinnamon, mace 
and nutmeg to taste, two cups of fruit (raisins, currants, 
and citron). Boil in a tin pudding-boiler three hours. 

SAUCE. 
Beat half a cup of butter to a cream, and add one cup 
of powdered sugar. When very light pour on one cup of 
boiling water, and stir for a minute before serving. 



17 



THIRD DAY. 



to or %mchon. 

RUSSIAN TEA. 

Make English breakfast tea as directed for the first day, 
but, in serving, substitute a slice of fresh lemon for cream, 

FRESH BREAD. 

CHIPPED DRIED BEEF. 

BAKED PEARS. 

Choose rather hard and sound pears, and put in a deep 
pudding-dish. Pour in water until you can see it, and 
bake very slowly until the fruit is tender. If the pears 
are sour, sprinkle in sugar. 

LOAF CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, and two thirds of a cup of butter 
beaten to a cream, and then worked into two cups of light 
bread dough. Let the mixture stand an hour or so, and 
then add two beaten eggs, half a cup of chopped raisins, 
half a teaspoonful of cinnamon, a pinch of clove, and the 
same of mace, and a bit of soda as large as a pea dis- 
solved in two teaspoonfuls of hot water. Add half a cup 
of flour, unless the dough was very stiff. Pour into a 
round tin, and kt it rise in a warm place until bubbles rise 
on top ; it will take about an hour. Bake in a slow oven. 



i8 



BILL OF FARE. 



FOURTH DAY. 

grciiUfast. 

STEEPED COFFEE. OATMEAL. 

BEEF STEAK. BAKED POTATOES. 

CORN CAKE. 

giuncv. 

PEA SOUP. BOILED HALIBUT. COLD VEAL. 

BOILED POTATOES. ASPARAGUS. 

LETTUCE. PICKLES. 

PERFECTION PUDDING. 

^Va 0v |C;uucTxcmi. 

BREAKFAST TEA. PESCADO. 

BAKER'S ROLLS. RASPBERRIES. 

SNOW-DRIFT CAKE. 



19 



V 








FOURTH DAY. 



STEEPED COFFEE. 

Allow one tablespoonful of ground coffee to each per- 
son, and one in addition. Pour on half the quantity of 
boiling water required, and let it stand half an hour or 
more where it will be hot, Imt not boil, then add the re- 
mainder of the hot water and serve after.it has stood for 
a moment. This is a simple and satisfactory way of mak- 
ing coffee. 

OATMEAL. 

As on the first day. 

BEEF STEAK. 
Dredge the steak with salt and flour, adding pepper if 
you like. Cook in a double broiler over bright coals for 
ten minirtes, turning often. 

BAKED POTATOES. 
Select potatoes of uniform size, and bake from twenty 
minutes to half an hour. 

CORN CAKE. 

Mix together one cup of Indian meal, one cup of flour, 
one and a half teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, and half a 
cup of sugar. Then add one cup of warm sweet milk, 
with one small teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it. Stir 
into the dry ingredients, and then add two eggs and half 
a cup of melted butter. Bake in a cake-tin. 



20 



■I 

■it 

:4 



5' 



FOURTH DAY. 



PEA SOUP. 

Soak a coffeecupful of dried peas over night. Boil two 
or three hours (if they are spUt peas, two hours will be 
sufficient), with salt, pepper, one stalk of celery or a little 
celery seed. Rub through a colander and return to the 
fire, adding more water if the soup is too thick. Mix one 
tablespoonful of flour with one tablespoonful of butter, 
add a little of the hot soup, and stir until it is smooth, and 
then pour into the kettle, stirring until it is well mixed. 
Butter a slice of stale bread on both sides, lay on a tin 
sheet, cut into dice, and brown in a quick oven. Put into 
the tureen just before serving. 



21 



FOURTH DAY. 



BOILED HALIBUT. 
Tie a square -piece of halibut in a cloth, pour on boiling 
water enough to cover it, add one tablespoonful of salt, 
and boil briskly half an hour. Prepare drawn butter by 
rubbing two tablespoonfuls of butter with one heaping 
tablespoonful of flour, add, gradually one coffeecup of the 
water in which the fish is boiling, and stir over the tea- 
kettle until it is smooth and cream}^ Remove the cloth 
from the fish very carefully, and pour the drawn butter 
ci'er it. Garnish with one or two hard-boiled eggs cut in 

slices. 

COLD VEAL. 

Cut the cold roast veal in thin slices, and arrange on a 
platter with cresses around the edge. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Prepare as on the first day. 

ASPARAGUS. 
Tie fresh asparagus in bunches, and stand upright in a 
small pail. Fill the pail half full of boiling water, salted, 
cover, and cook for twenty minutes. Arrange slices of 
toast, dipped in the water in which the asparagus has been 
boiled, and buttered, cut the string and lay the asparagus 
evenly on the toast. Canned asparagus may be heated 
and served in the same way. 

LETTUCE. 
Ice cold, and served with vinegar and sugar. 

PICKLES. 

Crosse & Blackwell's chow-chow. 



FOURTH DAY. 



PERFECTION PUDDING. 

One and a half cups of cold boiled rice heated in one 
pint of milk. When boiling, add the yolks of four eggs 
beaten with half a cup of sugar. Boil until it thickens, 
remove from the fire and stir in the beaten whites of two 
eggs. When thoroughly mixed, add half a teaspoonful of 
vanilla, pour in a pudding-dish, cover the top with a mer- 
ingue, made of the whites of two eggs beaten with half a 
cup of pulverized sugar. Brown in the oven. 



23 



FOURTH DAY, 



to j)r luttchfon, 

ENGLISH BREAKFAST TEA. 
As for the first day. 

PESCADO. 

Flake up cold boiled halibut with a fork. Prepare a 
sauce by boiling, in a teakettle-pail, or double boiler, one 
large cup of milk with a small slice of onion and a blade 
of mace. Thicken with one even tablespoonful of flour, 
rubbed smooth with an equal quantity of butter. When 
the sauce thickens, remove the onion and mace, add a 
teaspoonful of salt, and quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper. 
Add two cups of the flakes of fish, cook a minute, and 
then pour into a buttered dish, sift dry bread-crumbs over 
the top, and bake twenty minutes. 

BAKER'S ROLLS. 

If you prefer to heat them, put them in the oven in a 
paper bag for a few minutes. 

RASPBERRIES. 

Fresh if possible, but if they are out of season, use 
raspberry jam. 

SNOW-DRIFT CAKE. 
Beat half of a cup of butter to a cream, and then add 
the beaten whites of five eggs mixed with two cups of 
sugar, then one cup of sweet milk with half a tea- 
spoonful of soda dissolved in it, and then three cups of 
flour, with one teaspoonful of cream tartar mixed with it. 
Flavor with a few drops of extract of almond. Bake 
slowly. Frost, and sprinkle with dessicated cocoanut. 

24 



BILL OF FARE. 



FIFTH DAY. 

gvcitUftist 

COFFEE. OATMEAL. VITELLA. 

BAKED POTATOES. FRIED MUSH. 

gitinev. 

VEAL SOUP. ROAST BEEF. 

CRUSTED POTATOES. BAKED TOMATOES. 

CORN. CREAM CAKES. 

RUSSIAN TEA. FRESH BREAD. 

PEACHES. LOBSTER SALAD. 

QUICK CAKE. 



25 



FIFTH DAY, 



Ir^aftfast. 



COFFEE AND OATMEAL AS BEFORE. 

VITELLA. 
Put a piece of butter as large as an egg in a saucepan, 
and when it melts, put in one teaspoonful of flour, mix 
thoroughly, but do not let it brown, add salt, pepper, and 
a pinch of mace ; pour in half a pint of boiling water, 
and stir a few minutes, then put in thin bits of cold veal, 
and heat slowly. Just before serving, stir in the 3'olk 
of an egg and one teaspoonful of lemon juice. Garnish 
with slices of lemon. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

As directed for yesterday morning. 

FRIED MUSH. 

Make a " hasty pudding," the day before you wish for 
the mush, by putting a quart of boiling water in a large 
kettle with one tablespoonful of salt ; have your Indian 
meal close by, and sprinkle it into the water, a handful a 
a time, stirring constantly, and keeping it boiling. When 
the pudding is stiff enough to hold the spoon upright, cook 
for a few minutes without adding more meal, and then dip 
out into a deep cake-tin, which should be filled full. The 
next morning, turn out the loaf, cut in slices half an inch 
thick. Have ready a kettle of lard, and when it is very 
hot put in slices of the pudding and cook until stiff. 
It will take about ten minutes. Serve with maple syrup. 
This is the perfection of fried mush. 

26 



FIFTH DAY. 



§umtx,—4,mi €Q\mL 



VEAL SOUP. 

The stock should be prepared the day before, by putting^ 
on the veal-bone and dry bits of the roast, in cold water, 
and cooking slowly two hours or more. Strain and cool. 
The next morning remove .all the fat, heat with a slice of 
onion, pepper and salt, add half a cup of tomato juice, and 
a third of a cupful of Italian paste. Boil half an hour. 



27 



FIFTH DAY. 



giitner. — ^tconH ^onr^L 

ROAST BEEF. 

Have the butcher remove the bones, and take those for 
your soup-kettle, roll the meat up in a compact shape, and 
secure with strings and skewers. Sprinkle with salt. Bake, 
allowing eight or ten minutes to a pound, remembering 
that it was weighed with the bones in. Make a gravy in 
the dripping-pan, by stirring in a thickening of two table- 
spoonfuls of browned flour wet with cold water. 

CRUSTED POTATOES. 

Pare the potatoes, and put in the pan with the meat, 
allowing thirty-five or forty minutes for medium-sized 
potatoes. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Butter a pudding-dish, and fill with layers of sliced fresh 
or canned tomatoes, with dry bread-crumbs. Sprinkle pep- 
per and salt on the tomatoes, and put bits of butter on 
each layer of crumbs. Bake about twenty minutes. 

CORN. 

If green, boil on the cob for fifteen minutes ; if canned, 
heat, adding pepper, salt, one cup of milk, and a piece of 
butter as large as a walnut. 



28 



FIFTH DAY. 



iinnrr.— Svlurd O!ourfjf. 

CREAM CAKES. 

Boil three-quarters of a cup of butter in one cup of 
water. While boiling, stir in one and three-quarters of 
a cup of flour. Stir until it is smooth and velvety, and set 
aside. When the batter is cool, mix in five eggs, one at a 
time, without beating. Drop on a buttered tin half as large 
as you want them when done, varnish the tops with a little 
yolk of egg. Bake in a quick oven until quite brown. If 
taken out too soon they will fall. When baked, cut a hole 
in the side of each and fill with a custard, made with one 
pint of milk, two thirds of a cup of sugar, and half of 
a cup of flour and two eggs. Flavor with vanilla. 



29 



FIFTH DAY. 



Wt^ ox %m\t\\mh 

RUSSIAN TEA. 
Make English breakfast tea as directed, serve with a 
slice of lemon in each cup instead of cream. 

FRESH BREAD. 

PEACHES. 

Fresh, if possible ; if not in season, California canned 
peaches may be substituted, 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Chop the lobster, and mix with half as much fresh let- 
tuce. Pour over it any nice salad dressing. 

QUICK CAKE.! 

Rub one cup of butter to a cream, add two cups of fine 
sugar, beat, then put in one cup of sweet milk, four eggs, 
and four cups of pastry flour, added alternately without 
beating the eggs separately. Season with mace and lemon. 
Last of all, dissolve one teaspoonful of soda in a third of 
a cup of milk, add two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, and 
stir into the cake while foaming. Bake very slowly. 



30 



BILL OF FARE. 



SIXTH DAY. 

COFFEE. OATMEAL. 

BEEF IN TOMATO SAUCE. 

WELCOME POTATOES. DIAMOND MUFFINS. 

APPLE SAUCE. 



gitxitjcr. 



BEEF SOUP. 

BOILED MUTTON. MASHED POTATOES. 

STRING BEANS. TURNIPS. CURRANT JELLY. 

EDINBURGH TARTS OR LEMON PUFFS. 

gca ox %xxncUcom 

OOLONG TEA. CREAM TOAST. 

GERMAN RELISH. 
PINE APPLE. PINAFORE CAKE. 



31 



SIXTH DAY. 



COFFEE AND OATMEAL AS BEFORE. 

BEEF IN TOMATO SAUCE. 
One cup of tomato juice, boiled with a small bit of 
onion and a few grains of cayenne, two cloves, salt to 
taste, a sprig of thyme, and half of a bay leaf. When 
boiling, stir in a heaping teaspoonful of corn starch wet 
with cold water. Boil until it is as thick as thin custard ; 
strain, and pour over slices of rare roast beef, let it stand 
in a hot place until the meat is thoroughly heated. 

WELCOME POTATOES. 

Boil and mash potatoes. Heap on a buttered tin, 
smooth with a knife, varnish with melted butter, and 
brown in a hot oven. 

DIAMOND MUFFINS. 
Two tablespoonfuls of sugar, three tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, one beaten egg, half a pint of milk, and 
one pint of flour, with one heaping teaspoonful of baking 
powder mixed with it. Bake in gem-pans in a quick 
oven. 

APPLE SAUCE. 

Stew sour apples until tender in very little water, and 
sweeten to taste. 



32 



SIXTH DAY. 



iitttt^r»— 4^^^^ bourse* 



BEEF SOUP. 

Prepare the stock the day before, by putting the beef 
bones in a kettle with two quarts of cold water, and cook- 
ing slowly two or three hours. Strain, and cool. The 
next day remove all the fat, add a quarter of an onion, 
pepper and salt to taste, a quarter of a cup of tomato juice, 
and a handful of vermicelli broken in small bits. Sim- 
mer fifteen or twenty minutes, skim out the onion, and 
serve. 



33 



SIXTH DAY. 



iinnm— ^ncond ^owx^l 

BOILED MUTTON. 

Wrap a leg of mutton in a floured cloth, cover with boil- 
ing water, salted very slightly, and cook rapidly for fifteen 
minutes, then put where it will only simmer for an hour or 
more. Serve with drawn butter made by rubbing two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, with half a cup of butter, and 
when smooth, add one pint of the water in which the mut- 
ton is boiling. Stir a few minutes over the teakettle, add 
a tablespoonful of pickled capers. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Boil potatoes, and mash with one tablespoonful of salt, 
the same of butter, and enough hot milk to moisten 
slightly. 

TURNIPS. 

Boil turnips until tender, it will take from one to two 
hours, mash and add butter and salt. Put little spots of 
pepper on top. 

STRING BEANS. 

If fresh, cut in strips and boil two hours, season with 
butter, salt and pepper. If canned, heat and season. 

CURRANT JELLY. 



34 



SIXTH DAY, 



EDINBURGH TARTS. 

Have ready some small tarts of nice pastry. (For 
directions for making Puff Paste, see "Mrs. Gilpin's 
Frugalities," page ^^.) Put one cup of sugar in a bright 
tin, with two tablespoonfuls of cold water, and two table- 
spoonfuls of strawberries, mashed very fine. Boil without 
stirring until a little dropped in cold water will candy. 
Have ready some large sweet strawberries, dip one at a 
time in the boiling syrup, and when thoroughly coated lift 
out with a fork and place three on each tart. Serve within 
an hour. If strawberries are not in the market, substitute 

LEMON PUFFS. 

Line pattj^-pans with the pastry, and fill before baking, 
with the whites of three eggs beaten stiff, with one cup of 
sugar and the juice and grated peel of a lemon. They 
will fall somewhat when taken from the oven, but are very 
nice. 



35 



SIXTH DAY. 



9m or Sunthcfltt, 

OOLONG TEA. 

Allow one teaspoonful of tea to each cup, and one ad- 
ditional one. Scald the teapot thoroughly before putting 
in the tea, then add half the quantity of boiling wate'r 
which will be required, steep over the teakettle for fifteen 
minutes. Add the rest of the hot water and serve. 

CREAM TOAST. 

Put one cup of milk and one cup of cream in a thoroughly 
buttered saucepan, add one teaspoonful of salt. When it 
boils, put in two heaping teaspoon fuls of flour, wet with 
cold milk. Boil until it is smooth and thick as custard, 
stirring constantly, then move the saucepan to a cooler 
place. Have ready slices of stale bread nicely toasted, 
dip each slice in the cream, and arrange on the platter, 
pour what remains of the cream over the toast. 

GERMAN RELISH. 

Boil two good sized potatoes and rub through a colan- 
der, add four tablespoonfuls of cream or rich milk, and a 
piece of butter as large as an egg, beaten to a cream, one 
teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of mustard and a 
little pepper. Mix well, with one small cupful of cold 
ham chopped fine (potted ham will do, but the mustard 
and pepper will not then be needed). Add four eggs 
beaten light, pour in a buttered dish, sprinkle the top with 
grated cheese, and bake half an hour. 

PINEAPPLE. 

If fresh, peel and grate on a very coarse grater, adding 
sugar to taste. 

PINAFORE CAKE. 

One cup of butter stirred to a cream, one and a half 
cups of sugar, half a cup of milk, with one teaspoonful of 
soda in it, four beaten eggs, half a cup of corn starch, one 
and a half cups of flour, with two teaspoonfuls of cream 
tartar in it. Bake in sheets. 

36 



BILL OF FARE. 



SEVENTH DAY. 

COFFEE. OATMEAL. 

VICTORIA MUTTON. COFFEE CAKES. 

MELONS OR OTHER FRUIT. 

MUTTON BROTH. ROAST DUCKS. 

GLAZED POTATOES. CURRANT JELLY. 

CELERY. GREEN PEAS. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM. 



'gm or %mxclixtou. 



CHOCOLATE. BREAD AND BUTTER. 

CREAMED EGGS. COLD TONGUE. 

RAISIN CAKE. 



37 



SEVENTH DAY, 



COFFEE AND OATMEAL AS BEFORE. 

VICTORIA MUTTON. 

Fry a small bit of onion until quite brown, remove from 
the saucepan, and pour in what remains of your drawn 
butter and capers, when it is hot, put in small pieces of 
cold mutton, and stir until the meat is hot. Have ready a 
platter, on which you have made a border of mashed po- 
tato. This is done by mixing the potato with enough milk 
to moisten it, and arranging it around the edge of the 
platter, press it down with the tines of a silver fork to flute 
it, and brown very slightly in the oven. Pour the meat in 
the centre, and put bits of parsley over it. 

COFFEE CAKES. 

One cup of sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved 
in a tablespoonful of warm water, one tablespoonful of 
melted lard (butter if preferred), three cups of pastry 
flour. Mix, and put on the moulding-board, cover with a 
basin, and let it stand about fifteen minutes. Roll out, cut 
in strips, twist, and fry in a kettle of hot lard. 

MELONS. 
When melons are in season, cut nice cantelopes in half, 
remove the seeds, and put a piece of ice in each. If 
melons are not in the market, oranges, or some kind of 
canned fruit may be substituted. 



3S 



SEVENTH DAY. 



MUTTON BROTH. 

Remove the fat from the water in which yesterday's 
mutton was boiled, add half a small onion, half a cup of 
raw rice, and a little white pepper. Boil slowly half an 
hour. 



39 



SEVENTH DAY. 



ROAST DUCKS. 

Prepare a stuffing of bread-crumbs, seasoned with salt, 
pepper, sage, and one teaspoonful of chopped onion. Stuff 
and truss the fowls, and roast about an hour, basting fre- 
quently. Pour the fat from the gravy in the dripping-pan, 
and thicken what remains with one tablespoonful of 
browned flour, wet with cold water. Add the giblets, 
previously boiled, and chopped fine. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

GLAZED POTATOES. 
Boil, mash, adding milk, salt, and butter to taste, glaze 
over with the yolk of an egg, and brown in the oven. 

CELERY. 

Wash, and arrange in a celery glass. 

PEAS IN CREAM. 
Boil one pint of fresh peas in salted water about twenty- 
five minutes, skim them out carefully, and pour over them 
one cupful of cream, heat and season with pepper and salt. 
Canned peas can be substituted. 



40 



SEVENTH DAY. 



iitttt^r*— SJIunl %urjjc. 



PINEAPPLE CREAM. 
Beat one pint of cream to a froth with the Dover egg- 
beater. When light, put in a pan which is placed in a 
dish of ice, sprinkle in three-quarters of a cup of powdered 
sugar, and one cup of grated pineapple. Pour half a cup 
of boiling water on one third of a package of gelatine, 
which has been soaked two hours or more in cold water. 
Strain into the cream, moving the strainer about that it 
may be mixed with the cream, begin at once to stir from 
the bottom of the pan, and keep on stirring until the mix- 
ture begins to thicken. It will only take a few minutes. 
Pour into the glass dish in which you wish to serve it, and 
set in a cold place for an hour. 



41 



SEVENTH DAY. 



®fa ox 'Mmxthton. 

CHOCOLATE. 
Scrape two squares of Baker's chocolate, and put in a 
saucepan with a quarter of a cup of hot water, and one 
tablespoonful of sugar; stir until it is smooth and glossy, 
and then mix it with one quart of boiling milk. Serve at 
once. 

BREAD AND BUTTER. 

CREAMED EGGS. 
Cut hard-boiled eggs in slices, and pour over them a 
sauce made by boiling one cup of cream, and thickening 
it with one heaping teaspoonful of corn starch wet with 
cold milk. Salt and pepper. Milk may be substituted for 
cream, with the addition of a teaspoonful of butter. 

COLD TONGUE. 

Tongue must be boiled the day before it is desired. If 
it is very salt, soak a few hours before cooking. Boil until 
tender, peel off the skin while hot, and roll up tightly, se- 
curing it with narrow strips of cloth, as strings will cut into 
it. Press into the bottom of a bowl which will just hold 
it, to keep it in shape, fill the bowl with the liquor in which 
it was boiled, and put a saucer and weight on top to keep 
it from floating. The next day, it can be turned out and 
the strings removed. It will be in a handsome shape, and 
should be put on the table whole. 

RAISIN CAKE. 

Two thirds of a cup of butter, stirred to a cream, one 
cup of sugar (brown, if you have it), one cup of milk, half 
a cup of molasses, one small teaspoonful of soda if the 
milk is sweet, or one ordinary teaspoonful if it is sour, 
dissolved in a tablespoonful of warm water, one cup of 
raisins, stoned and torn in pieces, clove, cinnamon, mace 
and nutmeg to taste, three eggs, reserving the white of one 
of them for the frosting, five small cups of pastry flour. 
Bake slowly. 

FROSTING. 

Beat the white of an egg, adding gradually one cup of 
pulverized sugar. 

42 



U I\l IQ 



