UC-NRLF 



B 3 flMb 57 1 



/ 




Sick I 



GIFT or 




tJNTVi :" ',•■• f.iFORNTA 

UOUSiCilai.D feClEKCii 



^-n 



^/,^^ c ^ ^ 



/ 



T 



/"/r-/, 



vr/6, 



DIET FOR THE SICK 

A TREATISE ON THE VALUES OF FOODS, THEIR APPLICATION 

TO SPECIAL CONDITIONS OF HEALTH AND DISEASE, AND 

ON THE BEST METHODS OF THEIR PREPARATION 



BY 

Mrs. MARY F. HENDERSON 

AUTHOR OP "practical cooking and dinner giving" 



ILLUSTRATED 



'■'■Man Mils Mrmelf^ rather than dies''^ 



NEW YORK 
HARPER & BROTHERS, FRANKLIN SQUARE 



BIOLOGV 



GIFT 

Copyright, 1885, by Harper & Brothers. 



All right* reterved. 



TO 
Dr. EDWARD BAYARD, of New York 

AND 

Dr. T. GRISWOLD COMSTOCK, of St. Louis 

the former the life-long friend of my father, and both 

eminent physicians for whom i have unbounded 

respect and esteem, this book 



Is (Kratefttlljj JUcbicateb 



41C533 



PREFACE. 



An English author saj^s, "The doctor, unsupported 
by the cook's material aid, and the cook, unguided by 
the doctor's knowledge, are two powerful agents, half 
of whose strength is paralyzed or misdirected." 

There are many valuable books published on "die- 
tetics," w'hich give at great length the chemical analy- 
ses of foods, their flesh -building and heat -producing 
values, etc. Many books are also published containing 
receipts for the sick. 

But the wise suggestions contained in the quotation 
have been too little heeded. The doctors have not been 
cooks. The cooks have not been doctors. 

The author, although neither a doctor nor a cook (as 
high art can reach in that direction), still concluded to 
modestly venture into the domains of both, with the 
view^ of studying the relations of foods to health and 
disease, and also the best modes of preparing them for 
use. 

The subject is an important one. A proper dietary 
is surely as essential to the recovery of an invalid as 
medicine ; and yet it will be observed that medical 
works give a thousand pages to medicinal therapeutics 
to one of dietetics. 

A physician at the head of one of our medical col- 
leges writes : " An experience of ten years in exam- 



vi Preface. 

ining medical Btudents, reveals a tendency in them to 
consider themselves * medicine men,' as is shown by 
the undue importance they attach to the pills, powders, 
and potions they are prepared to give. They ignore 
the great fact that upon a carefully selected diet the 
patient must depend for the natural strength which is 
to be the chief reliance in stemming the adverse tide." 

The professor might have added more ; for the treat- 
ment of most chronic complaints is chiefly dietetical 
and hygienic, rather than medicinal. 

The science is comparatively new which treats of the 
chemical composition, preparation, and physiological 
effects of foods. May the time come when nothing in 
the way of dietetical treatment need be left to the fickle 
appetites of patients, nothing to the judgments of anx- 
ious friends, and nothing to untrained cooks ! 

If this hand-book — intended to be small, though 
the subject is large — can be of use in the direction 
just indicated, it will give great pleasure and satisfac- 
tion to 

The Author. 

St. Louis, Marcliy 1885. 



CONTENTS. 



REMARKS ABOUT BEVERAGES AND FOODS . .Page 1 

Tea... 1 

Coffee . . . , o 5 

Cocoa 5 

Chocolate « 5 

Iced Water and Iced Tea 6 

Spirituous Liquors 8 

Malt Extract 9 

Milk 10 

Buttermilk 13 

Whey 13 

Animal Foods 13 

Salted Meats 16 

Fish 16 

Oysters « 16 

Fat o, 18 

Eggs , 20 

Rice , o 20 

Corn-starch and Arrow-root r, 21 

Sago and Tapioca = 21 

Beans and Pease . . . » , „ . , 21 

Gelatine 21 

Tomatoes 22 

Fruits, Grapes, Bananas, etc 22 

Sea-moss Farine and Sea Moss . . o 25 

TilE NEW HEALTH FOODS AND OTHER GRAIN PREPARA- 
TIONS o o . . , 26 

KOUMISS 31 

ARTIFICIAL DIGESTION BY MEANS OF PANCREATIC FER- 
MENTS „... 39 

GRAPE JUICE 44 



viii Contents. 

THE HOT-WATER CURE Page 47 

DIET IN DIFFERENT DISEASES, ETC ... 49 

Diet for Babies 49 

Dyspepsia 55 

Diarrhea 61 

Dyseuteiy 62 

Cholera 62 

Fevers 64 

Typhoid Fever 66 

Gout and Rheumatism 6*7 

Bright's Disease 09 

Diabetes Vl 

Consumption 73 

Scrofula 75 

Rickets 75 

Diphtheria , 76 

Gastritis 76 

Corpulency 77 

Colds and Catarrhs 225 

SOMETHING ABOUT LONGEVITY 80 

UTENSILS 85 

RECEIPTS FOR THE SICK AND CONVALESCENT 89 

Drinks 89 

Beef Teas and Broths . 100 

Gruels 106 

Breads and other Grain Preparations 113 

Receipts for Gluten 130 

Vegetables 134 

Little Dishes ,.. 139 

Some Cream Soups 158 

Other Soups 164 

Dishes of Rice 169 

Creams and Fruits 174 

Custards 180 

Jellies 184 

Puddings 190 

BILLS OF FARE FOR CONVALESCENTS 194 



APPENDIX 199 

Effkcts of Tka and Coffki:. 

ExtracL Irum aitielc by M. Matticu Williams 199 



Contents, ix 

APPENDIX {continued). 

Influence op Alcoholic Liquors. 

Remarks on the subject by Prof. Edward L. Youmans and 

others Page 205 

Tendency of Common Wheat Flour to Produce Brigiit's Dis- 
ease, Diabetes, etc 20'7 

Something about Koumiss. 

Extract from an article by Dr. E. F. Brush of New York, in 

the Medical Record. , .• . 208 

More about Koumiss. 

By Dr. T. Griswold Comstock of St. Louis 211 

The Digestive Ferments. 

Extracts from a book on the subject by Dr. William Rob- 
erts of Manchester, England 212 

Pancreatic Emulsion of Fats. 

Extract from a work on "Loss of Weight, Blood Spitting, 

and Lung Disease," by Dr. Horace Dobell 213 

Food for Infants. 

Remarks by Dr. Eustace Smith, Physician to the King of the 

Belgians 215 

Feeding the Baby. 

Remarks by Dr. E. C. Page, in his book " How to Feed the 

Baby".. 221 

Diet for Typhoid Fever. 

Extracts from an address on the "Treatment of Typhoid 

Fever," by Sir William Jenner , 223 

Colds and Catarrhs. 

Extract from an article by Dr. Felix Oswald, published in 

the " Popular Science Monthly " 225 

More about the Pancreatic Extract 228 

ALPHABETICAL INDEX 231 



DIET FOE THE SICK. 



REMARKS ABOUT BEVERAGES AND FOODS. 

Tea. 

This article contains an astringent matter, tannin 
(constituting from eighteen to twenty-five per cent, of 
the whole), a volatile oil yielding the aroma, and theine. 
Authorities differ regarding the effects of tea upon the 
system. Liebig claims that theine and caffeine, in some 
way not satisfactorily explained, prevent or suspend the 
waste of tissue. As nitrogenous foods are necessary to 
supply or reinforce the tissues, he thinks that whatever 
prevents the waste of tissue takes the place of such 
foods, and, pro tanto^ dispenses with the necessity of 
their use. This theory is now substantially exploded. 
More thorough investigation, supplemented by careful 
experiments, has demonstrated almost beyond question 
that the waste of tissue is not, in fact, prevented by tea 
or coffee. The essential principles of both are stimu- 
lating in their effects. They increase the action of the 
heart and the arteries, and furnish, like alcohol, a tran- 
sient increase of vital energy. These stimulating effects 
have, by Liebig and some others, been accepted as the 
prolongation or maintenance of healthful strength and 
vital force. These effects are deceptive. The advan- 
tages are as unreal as those sometimes supposed to spring 
from the use of alcoholic liquors. In truth, if alcohol 
were taken in small enough quantities to produce an 
1 



2 :\ : :/ : vl^^^/Jii"^/: al}&ut}Foods. 

effect no more stimulating than the use of tea, it would 
be less injurious to the system, from the fact that tea is 
mixed with the food, adulterating it with tannin, which 
is not contained in alcohol. 

Dr. Bellows considers Liebig's theory fallacious, and 
attributes the benefits of tea rather to its osmazone (the 
flavoring principle). He says that food is moi"e digesti- 
ble and assimilable when it is taken with gustatory pleas- 
ure. The aromatic principle of tea commends it to the 
taste. He instances an experiment on a dog that was 
shut up and given good natural food containing all the 
needed elements except osmazone ; i. e.^ the food was 
cooked and recooked until all flavor and odor were 
lost. The dog finally refused to eat and pined away. 
It may be possible that the overcooking renders the 
fibres and other elements unfit for digestion, making 
them tough and depriving them in some degree of nu- 
tritive power. The dog's food, in the case named, was, 
perhaps, little better for dietetic purposes than so much 
wood. Flavor, or the sense of taste, is possibly an 
index by which nature, unperverted, determines the 
proper food to be taken into the stomach at any given 
time. 

Professor Lehman also believed that tea and coffee 
lessen tlie waste of the body. Dr. Edward Smith be- 
lieves to the contrary. He says (in "Foods"), "I per- 
formed a very extended series of experiments on myself 
and others, which proved that tea excites vital action, and 
is practically a respiratory stimulant. ... In reference 
to nutrition, tea increases waste, since it promotes the 
transformation of food without supplying nutriment, 
and increases the loss of heat without supplying food." 
Tea, therefore, he thinks, should only be taken after a 
full meal, unless the system be at all times replete with 
nutritive material. 



Tea, 3 

Pavy says: "The phenomena produced when tea is 
consumed in a strong state, and to a hurtful extent, 
show that it is capable of acting in a powerful manner 
upon the nervous system. Nervous agitation, muscular 
tremors, a sense of prostration, and palpitation consti- 
tute effects often seen. It also possesses direct irrita- 
tant properties which lead to the production of abdomi- 
nal pains and nausea, and by the astringent matter it 
contains it diminishes the action of the bowels." 

Some authorities, indeed, go so far as to say that tea 
is a most potent destroyer of the digestive powers. 

There are probably some good results from drinking 
tea and coffee, viz. : the water used is purified by boil- 
ing, the liquid is generally taken in a warm state, and 
the warmth of the water tends to aid digestion. When 
milk or cream is used a valuable nutritive aliment is 
added which might not otherwise be taken ; and possi- 
bly, as one authority remarks, the use of tea or coffee in 
many cases furnishes a sufficient stinmlus to protect 
against indulgence in drinks of a still more injurious 
character. In other words, it is thought that dying of 
tea and coffee is more gradual than dying of whiskey 
and brandy. 

It is now generally conceded that the effect of the 
active principle in tea and coffee is more or less injuri- 
ous to the nervous system, and the tannin contained in 
them acts as a constant irritant to the stomach, present- 
ing a formidable obstacle to digestion. Slavery of body 
and mind to any unnatural stimulant is unfortunate, 
whether that stimulant be tea or coffee, alcoholic drinks 
or opium — all more or less beneficial as remedial agents 
and injurious as constant beverages. 

The feeling of health and strength which makes it a 
luxury to live, the exhilarating sense of self-command 
which makes work a pleasure and success a certainty, 



4: Eemarhs about Foods. 

that liappy buoyancy of spirit which comes only from 
the taking of wholesome and assimilable food, cannot 
be properly appreciated by those who depend upon the 
ephemeral effects of stimulants. 

If a stimulating drink is desired, nothing is more 
wholesome than koumiss before it becomes too acid. 
Chocolate (alkathrepta made without vanilla) furnishes 
another nourishing, although hardly a stimulating, drink. 

Several substitutes for coffee have been tried, such as 
chiccory, roasted beans, pease, etc. Probably the best 
substitute is the cereal coffee prepared by the Health 
Food Company. It is made of the entire barley grain 
and the gluten of wheat. It is of nutritive value, and 
has a pleasant flavor resembling coffee. One tires of it, 
however, after a short time. The most pleasant and in- 
nocent of drinks for a constant beverage is one at the 
mention of which the reader may smile incredulously. 
But, let him first try it. I call it hot-water tea.* It 
consists simply of boiling water, with cream and sugar 
added, and is served in a teacup. The temperature of 
the boiling water should be properly reduced by the 
addition of the cold cream. As soon as hot-water tea 
is given a fair trial, it will be discovered that it is chiefly 
the warmth of the beverage that is desired ; also that, 
with a bit of imagination, hot-water tea will soon seem 
to possess all the flavor of the genuine English Break- 
fast or Ilyson, the Government Java or the Mocha in- 
fusions. Yet some persons are very difficile^ and have 
no imagination. 

In closing this article, I would add that green tea is 
more objectionable than black tea. It contains a third 
more tannin, and often a deleterious coloring matter 



* The author has since heard that this beverage is mentioned in the 
menus of some New York hotels as " cambric tea." 



Coffee, — Cocoa and Chocolate. 5 

(Prussian blue mixed with gypsum and indigo). In the 
preparation of tea it should never be allowed to boil and 
steep. Boiling water should be poured upon the leaves, 
and the infusion used in a very few minutes afterwards. 
The tea leaves should never be used a second time. 
When tea is boiled, tannin is extracted in undue quan- 
tities, and the volatile osmazone is driven off.* 

Coffee. 
Coffee is heating and stimulating, and is serviceable in 
giving warmth to the body under exposure to cold. 
Taken in immoderate quantities it induces feverishness, 
tremor, palpitation, anxiety, and deranged vision. It 
contains less tannin than tea, and is probably less in- 
jurious to the digestive powers. 

Cocoa and Chocolate. 
Cocoa is the name of the seed or bean of the cacao- 
tree, ground into a powder, and moulded into cakes. 
When it is flavored with vanilla and mixed with sugar 
it is called chocolate. For the invalid, chocolate should 
be avoided on account of the vanilla. Cocoa or alka- 
threpta (a quite pure pharmaceutical preparation) should 
be substituted for it. Cocoa differs from tea and coffee 
in that it possesses little or no tannin, or other of their 
deleterious constituents. It contains a large percentage 
of fatty and albuminous (muscle-making) matter, with 
about four per cent, of phosphates, and is supplied with 
all the requisite elements of food for sustaining life. It 
possesses the stimulating effect of tea and coffee, though 
in a very mild degree. Pavy says: "Containing, as 
cocoa does, twice as much fatty matter as wheaten flour, 
with a notable quantity of starch, and an agreeable aro- 

* For further remarks about tea and coffee see Appendix, page 1 99. 



6 Bemarhs about Foods. 

ma to tempt the palate, it must be a valuable aliment- 
ary material. Chocolate taken with milk and bread 
will suffice for a good repast." The nutritive elements 
of cocoa are so concentrated, and it is so rich in oily 
matter, that it should only be freely taken by conva- 
lescents and persons in active life. In Solis's " Con- 
quest of Mexico " it is said that the Spanish conquerors 
did not fail to record their appreciation of the flavor 
and nutritive qualities of chocolate, a single cup of it 
being enough, in their estimation, to sustain a man 
through a day's march. The cups were probably large. 

Chocolate is frequently adulterated with starch, suet, 
and coloring matters. Venetian red, umber, annatto, 
and, in some instances, the highly poisonous metallic 
salts of cinnabar and red lead are employed. 

The chocolate in common use is, therefore, of very 
uncertain composition. According to Dr. Ilassall the 
doubtful article composes half of what is sold in Eng- 
land. 

Iced Water and Iced Tea. 

The digestive agents are very sensitive to tempera- 
ture, the process of digestion being arrested by a tem- 
perature either too hot or too cold. This is practically 
tested hj experimenting with the receipts given in this 
book, where the pancreatic extract is employed. 

Water, to be refreshing and wholesome, should not, 
when drunk, be above the usual temperature of fresh 
spring or well water. The habitual use of iced water 
hy Americans is certainly attended with great injury; 
and undoubtedly this lavish use of it and hot breads is 
the chief cause of the national disease — dyspepsia. A 
waiter's first duty at an American hotel is to place be- 
fore each guest a goblet full of cracked ice, and the 
crevices are then tilled with water before he takes an 
order for something else to go with it. 



Iced Water and Iced Tea. 7 

An acquaintance of the writer, in Missouri, who was 
blessed with a most -perhct physiqiie, drank an unusual 
quantity of iced water one hot summer's day, and died 
three days afterwards from paralysis of the stomach. 

Dio Lewis, in his work on " Our Digestion," writes as 
follows : 

"Dr. Beaumont makes an interesting statement illus- 
trating the influence of cold drinks upon the digestion. 
He placed his thermometer in St. Martin's stomach,* 
and found the temperature 99°. A gill of water at the 
temperature of 55° was introduced. As soon as it was 
diffused over the interior surface, the temperature was 
reduced to 70°, at which it stood a few minutes, and 
then began very slowly to rise. It was not until thirty 
minutes had elapsed, and all the water had been for 
some time absorbed, that the mercury regained its for- 
mer level of 99°. 

" When we reflect that in this case there was but a 
single gill of water and the temperature was 55°, which 
hardly deserves the name of cold, we shall not hesitate 
in pronouncing upon the habit of drinking the usual 
quantities of iced water with our meals, or that of con- 
suming, at the end of a full meal, a dish of ice-cream. 
When we remember that a temperature of 99° is abso- 
lutely required to carry forward the process of digestion, 
can we doubt, if a gill of water at the temperature of 55° 
produced such an effect upon St. Martin, a person of 
rarest vigor of health, what would be the influence of a 

* The author would explain, in reference to this apparently rash remark, 
that Alexis St. Martin was wounded in sucli a manner by a gunsliot thaJ 
the stomach was exposed ; the edges of the wound cicatrized, leaving a 
permanent fistulous opening leading into the cavity of the stomach. The 
orifice, usually closed, could be opened, and the process of digestion in- 
spected. Dr. Beaumont made a long series of experiments with St. Mar- 
tin, most valuable and interesting to the medical profession. 



8 Remarks about Foods, 

pint of iced water on the stomach of a person of weak 
digestion." 

A more senseless custom still is to drink iced tea. 
The icing of tea serves to precipitate the tannin, and 
this is taken into the stomach as an insoluble substance. 

Spieituous Liquoes. 

As medicinal agents I have nothing to say against 
alcoholic drinks. Strychnine, arsenic, opium, bella- 
donna, and perhaps even calomel, as medicines, may be 
serviceable also, when prescribed in proper quantities 
by competent physicians. 

Regarding the action and effects of alcohol when 
taken habitually, I have quoted from Professor You- 
mans* and others. (See Appendix, page 205.) 

I will only introduce here the theory of an able phy- 
sician who has for many years been at the head of an 
inebriate asylum in Connecticut. He says that in pro- 
ducing drunkards a fault equal to and possibly greater 
than the dram-shop influence exists, and that is the cus- 
tom of habitually serving highly seasoned food at the 
home table. This creates the appetite for stronger stim- 
ulants, which grows and becomes morbid by continued 
indulgence. The dumb animals, he says, live on simple 
diet, without condiments, and continue to take the 
same simple food throughout life that was taken in 
youth. A pickled carrot, a peppered clover, spiced 
cornmeal, or a tobacco leaf would be spurned by an 
intelligent -eyed ox, as an insult to his natural under- 
standing. The sentiments of any other animal (except 
the human species) would be the same on the sub- 
ject. Result — scarcely any stomachic disorders among 
animals. 

♦ * ' Household Science. " 



Malt Extract. 9 

The mouth or taste is the heaven-given sentinel to 
guard that royal domain, the stomach. Give to a young 
child a condiment and the sentinel rejects it, until by 
continued solicitation, and by habit, the taste becomes 
perverted. The stomach gradually acquires an unnat- 
ural and unhealthy desire, the same desire that in a 
strong degree can only be satisfied with fiery liquors. 
Pepper, Dr. Foote considers the most pernicious of the 
spices — perhaps because it is more generally used. Tea 
and coffee are also rejected from his dietetical repertoire; 
in fact, he would discard all articles which tend to ex- 
cite irritation or create unnatural stimulus. 

For the object of mere gustatory pleasure, the doctor 
insists that the man with healthy appetite enjoys more 
a simple crust of bread than the epicure with inflamed 
and calloused stomach can his fiery ragout. 

In other words, what begins with spice, pickles, etc., 
ends with whiskey. The man with a healthy stomach 
will no more crave whiskey than the ox will crave to- 
bacco. In the treatment of inebriates, besides the gen- 
eral remedies administered for febrile conditions, his 
chief point is to so regulate the diet that the stomach 
will gradually become accustomed again to simple food, 
in the same manner that it became accustomed to the 
stimulating food. When this point is reached the pa- 
tient is considered cured. 

Malt Extract. 
Several preparations of malt extract are offered which 
are valuable in an alimentary point of view, for aiding 
in the digestion of starch or farinaceous foods. 

Malt is made by allowing barley to germinate, and 
the germination is arrested at a certain temperature. 
As a result a peculiar nitrogenous principle called dias- 
tase is developed, which has the power of converting 
1* 



10 Remarks about Foods. 

starch into dextrine and sugar. An infusion of malted 
barley is reduced to a syrupy consistency, by a low tem- 
perature, without impairing the fermenting power of the 
diastase, and this is called malt extract. 

When the digestive powers are weak the extract is 
often valuable, although it should be taken with farina- 
ceous food, or just after. 

The malt extract is also indicated when the moutli is 
dry, denoting feeble action of the salivary glands. Dr. 
Roberts suggests that the extract should be spread upon 
bread and butter, or used to sweeten puddings and 
gruels. 

Milk. 

The value of milk as a food cannot be exaggerated. 
It is a complete diet in itself, containing in proper pro- 
portion everything necessary for sustaining life. 

In a sanitary point of view the world would be bet- 
ter off if a larger proportion of milk were taken for 
daily food, and the amount of animal food and of tea 
and coffee were correspondingly reduced. Milk is not 
only nourishing, but stimulating ; and the natural stim- 
ulus resulting from assimilable food is the only health- 
ful and desirable one. 

Many diseases, such as rheumatism, dyspepsia, gas- 
tralgia, chronic diarrhoea, consumption, etc., are relieved 
or cured by a diet composed partly or entirely of milk. 
The milk treatment, as practised in different parts of 
Europe, has been very successful. 

In perfect health, good pure milk is almost always 
digestible. There are a few with whom it disagrees. 

The addition of lime-water will correct it for persons 
inclined to acidity of the stomach. Skimmed milk will 
be more beneficial to those who require less fat. When 
milk is found to be indigestible the difficulty is gener- 
ally obviated by taking it mixed with starch or grain 



Millc, -11 

foods — for instance, with rice, porridge, bread, etc. ; 
or it can be boiled and thiclcened with a little barley 
flour, etc. The reason is explained by Dr. Eustace 
Smith, page 216. 

It is preferable to give milk to diabetics in the form 
of koumiss, which contains no sugar. 

In typhoid fever it should be either administered 
peptonized or in the form of fresh koumiss. This pre- 
vents the formation of curd, which is irritating to the 
bowels in that disease. 

Milk in its acid state and buttermilk are nourishing 
and beneficial in febrile conditions. 

Cows' milk is not always of uniform quality. That 
of the Alderney cow yields the largest proportion of 
butter. The feeding, too, influences the quality of milk ; 
for instance, with dry food, the milk is relatively richer 
in solids, and with good grass it abounds in fat. 

Water constitutes nine tenths of milk; tli^^remainder 
consists of albuminoid or the muscle-building principle, 
caseine (the curd which is used in making cheese), the 
carbonates or heat-producing principle (the butter and 
sugar). Then there is some mineral matter — the phos- 
phates. The sugar is called lactine, and by fermenta- 
tion or souring it is converted into lactic acid. 

When the ''milk cure" is resorted to, the patient 
should gradually leave off his ordinary mixed diet until 
he reaches an exclusively milk diet. 

Mitchell formulates his method of administering a 
milk diet as follows : 

"My own rule, founded on considerable experience, 
is this : Dating from the time when the patient begins 
to take milk alone, I wish three weeks to elapse before 
anything be used save milk. After the first week of 
the period I direct that the milk be taken in just as 
large amount as the person desires, but not allowing it 



12 Bemarlcs about Foods. 

to fall below a limit which, for me, is determined in each 
case by his ceasing to lose weight. Twenty-one days 
of absolute milk diet having passed, with such exception 
as I shall presently mention, I now give a thin slice of 
stale bread, thrice a day. After another week I allow 
rice once a day, about two tablespoonfuls, or a little ar- 
rowroot, or both. At the fifth week I give a chop once 
a day ; and after the sixth week I expect the patient to 
return gradually to a diet which should consist largely 
of milk for some months." 

Dr. Barthelow's rule is gradually to add other diet, 
after the cessation of symptoms for which the milk 
treatment was instituted. 

Milk and animal food, or milk and acid food, should 
not be taken together. Persons desiring to take a par- 
tial milk diet can take milk and farinaceous food for 
breakfast and for lunch or tea, and omit it at dinner, 
which may be a meal of meat and vegetables. 

Milk should be taken by the invalid slightly warm. 
No doubt the natural warmth of the milk when fresh 
from the cow is the best. 

Dr. Dobell, in his work, " Diet and Kegimen," says : 
^'Now the nearest approach to a pancreatic emulsion is 
what may be called nascent milk, by which I mean 
milk just secreted — milk that flows from the mammary 
glands as it is formed. ... In this the emulsification is 
finest and most perfect, but every minute that elapses 
after the milk is secreted deteriorates this perfection of 
emulsification, nntil, as we know, when allowed to cool, 
the cream separates from the water of the milk, etc." 

Milk can be kept fresh for a long time if placed in 
well-scalded and perfectly clean glass jars, which can be 
hermetically sealed by drawing patent wire clasps over 
the glass tops. 

On a journey to Europe some acquaintances took 



Buttermilk, — ^Ylley. — Animal Foods. 13 

milk and cream in glass jars, in the way described. 
The last day of the ocean voyage it seemed as fresh as 
when leaving New York. It was, of course, kept in 
the ice-closet. 

Glass jars and bottles are now in general use at the 
best dairies in New York. 

BUTTEKMILK. 

Buttermilk contains, the same as skimmed milk, the 
full nourishment of the milk without the fat; how- 
ever, it retains a very small proportion of fat, less than 
skimmed milk. It is very beneficial in some weak con- 
ditions of the stomach (dyspepsia, fever, etc.). 

Dr. Ballot, of Kotterdam, has had much to say about 
the value of buttermilk in the treatment of infants for 
summer complaint, cholera infantum, etc. Koumiss, or 
peptonized milk, might be found equally efficacious, and 
possibly preferable, in many cases. 

Whey. 
Whey is almost without nutritive value. As a drink 
in febrile or inflammatory conditions it is refreshing and 
often beneficial. It is sometimes recommended to per- 
sons who find difficulty in retaining food in the stomach. 
However, in such cases, koumiss would probably be of 
greater value. 

Animal Foods. 

Of all the animal foods, beef is the most important. 
It is very digestible, and because of its fine texture and 
richness in red-blood juices, it furnishes more nutriment 
in proportion to weight than any other meat. Like bread, 
it never palls on the appetite. The quality of beef de- 
pends mucli on the age and manner of feeding the ox. 
To be at perfection the animal should be four years old, 
not worked, and partly corn-fed. 



14 Remarks about Foods. 

Mutton is generally more digestible than beef, it and 
venison being regarded as the most digestible of all the 
meats. It is popularly supposed to be a lighter food 
than beef, the latter being adapted to physical exercise, 
while mutton is rather a food for persons of sedentary 
habits, and for invalids. Dr. Smith, in an interesting 
work on "Foods," says that Kean suited the kind of 
meat which he ate to the part which he was about to 
play, and selected mutton for lovers, beef for murderers, 
and pork for tyrants. 

Mutton broth has less nutritive value than beef broth. 

Venison. When sufficiently hung and tender, veni- 
son outranks all meats in point of digestibility. It is 
also palatable and highly nutritious. 

Veal and Lamb. J^lthough the flesh of young animals 
is more tender than that of old, it is less digestible and 
less nutritious. The tissues of young animals are more 
gelatinous than those of the adult, the latter containing 
more of fibrine and of the flavoring principle, omazone. 

Pork. Unless it be a small, thin slice of breakfast-ba- 
con taken in the way of an appetizer, pork should be ex- 
cluded altogether from the invaliv^ 6 dietary. Although 
it is a convenient and inexpensive meat and an appetiz- 
ing one for man}-, and perhaps an unobjectionable one 
for laboring men, yet, on account of the uncertain feed- 
ing of the animal, and the hardness of its muscular fibre, 
it is doubtful whether pork should be used at all by peo- 
ple of sedentary habits. 

Lard and pork have seemed indispensable for frying 
purposes, and for larding and seasoning. It must be tak- 
en on trust, however. In the Southern States many are 
using cotton-seed oil, which has quite the flavor of olive oil, 
for cooking — using it in place of lard for everything for 
which lard is used. It is now sold in all the large cities, 
and in time will undoubtedly be very generally used. 



Animal Foods. 15 

The table inserted below, giving the relative nutritive 
and other values of the five animal foods principally used, 
is taken from Dr. Bellow's " Philosophy of Eating." 

In one hundred parts are — 

Mineral matter, Fibrin and albumen, 

or food for the or food for muscles Fat, or food 

brain, etc. and tissues. for heat. Water. 

Veal 4.5 16.5 16.5 62.5 

Beef 5.0 15.0 30.0 50.0 

Mutton 3.5 12.5 40.0 44.0 

Lamb 3.5 12.0 34.0 50.5 

Pork 1.5 10.0 50.0 38.5 

Undoubtedly too much meat is generally eaten by 
persons of sedentary habits, resulting in dyspepsia, gout, 
etc. In cold weather, and with much physical exercise, 
it can be freely taken, but in temperate or warm weather 
a greater proportion of cereal food would improve the 
general health. An analysis of the two kinds of food 
shows a similar composition. The muscle-making ele- 
ments in beef, the fibrine and albumen, correspond with 
the muscle-making elements in wheat — gluten and albu- 
men ; and they so a^ree in chemical composition as to 
be considered mere niodifications of the same substance, 
and, being dried, contain principally the same elements 
in the same proportions. 

Thus the popular idea that grain food is not so strong 
and nourishing as animal food is erroneous. The meat 
of animals is nitrogenous and therefore muscle-building. 
So are the grains nitrogenous and muscle-building. Dr. 
Kadcliffe, in an interesting article in the Popular Science 
Monthly^ says : " It is impossible to distinguish between 
the albuminose or peptone into which fibrine is resolved 
in the process of digestion and the albuminose or pep- 
tone into which albumen or caseine or gluten or legu- 
mine is resolved in this process. It is apparently of little 
or no moment whether these various nitrosrenous arti- 



16 Remarks about Foods, 

cles of food are derived from the world of animal life 
or from the world of vegetable life. 

" You must allow that an herbivorous animal is not 
less vigorous than a carnivorous animal; and certainly 
you would find it difiicult to show that man, who can 
live and thrive under the most dissimilar circumstances, 
upon almost any kind of food, is vigorous in proportion 
to the amount of meat he contrives to consume." 

Meats should not be served to invalids cooked a sec- 
ond time. The flavoring principle, osmazone, is dissi- 
pated after the first cooking, and the meat must depend 
upon outside seasonings for flavor. The tissues are also 
less tender. 

Salted Meats. 

On account of the toughness of fibre resulting from 
the curing process, these meats are difficult of digestion, 
and should never be used in the sick-room. 

Fish. 
Fish is a nourishing and digestible food for conva- 
lescents if served quite fresh and broiled or boiled. It 
affords a pleasant change of food about once a week. 

Oysters. 
Oysters are nutritious and generally well-borne by 
delicate stomachs. Dr. William Roberts, in his work 
" On the Digestive Ferments," advances an interesting 
theory in relation to oysters as a food. He claims that 
the effect of cooking is to diminish their digestibility, 
which would make oysters the exception in this respect 
among the articles that furnish albuminoid matter. He 
explains his reasons by saying that the fawn-colored 
part of the oyster, containing about half its substance, 
is its liver, composed partly of glycogen. Associated 
with this, but withheld from actual contact with it dur- 



Oysters, 17 

ing life is its appropriate digestive ferment — diastase. 
Mastication mixes these constituents and they are di- 
gested without other aid. Cooking destroys the digest- 
ing properties of the diastase, and then the oyster has 
to be digested like other food — by the eater's own di- 
gestive power. 

Other authorities question and doubt Dr. Roberts' 
theory. The excessive use of condiments — salt, pepper, 
lemon-juice, and vinegar — more especially pepper, com- 
bined with imperfect mastication, may possibly impair 
the wholesomeness of raw oysters to many persons.''^ 
The hard portion, or muscle, which fastens the oyster to 
the shell should be removed in all cases when served 
for weak stomachs. 

The author would recommend oyster soup, properly 
prepared (the oysters slightly cooked), as the best mode 
of administering oysters to an invalid. The flavor of 
the juice and the extra nourishment furnished by the 
cream or milk used, together with the advantage which 
foods served warm afford to digestion, would be good 
reasons for preferring oyster stews or soups. 

Dr. Bellows, in *' The Philosophy of Eating," speak- 
ing of oysters, says : " They have not, as food, the mus- 
cle-making elements of the Crustacea or other active 
fish ; and although their chemical composition indicates 
phosphatic salts, they are mostly salts of lime, which go 
to form the shell and to make bone rather than a food 
for the brain and nervous system. Oysters, therefore, 
are very unsatisfactory food for laboring men, but will 
do for the sedentary and for a supper to sleep on. 
They contain but 7|- per cent, of solid matter, including 
fibrin, albumen, gelatine, mucus, and osmazone; and 



* Whatever the cause, the fact remains that many persons find raw oys- 
ters quite indigestible. 



18 Remarhs about Foods. 

much of that is gelatine, which affords no nourishment, 
while butcher's meat contains on an average 25 per 
cent., and the poorest fishes contain 14 per cent., of pure 
nitrates. The nitrates in oysters are in the form of al- 
bumen, like the white of an egg ; they are, therefore, 
more easily digested in a raw state than when cooked, 
but when stewed are not indigestible." 

Fat. 

We have heretofore too little appreciated the impor- 
tance of fat in our dietaries. Without knowing why, 
fat has generally been considered imwholesome, tending 
to produce biliousness, corpulence, and heat, besides 
being a general clog and burden in all digestive pro- 
cesses. Oil has been avoided ; butter on bread has 
been scraped down to the smallest quantity, and the 
fat of meat has been sedulously trimmed. 

Fat is as necessary to the system as the muscle-mak- 
ing properties of foods. It not only serves to produce 
heat, but has an essential share in the tissue-making 
process. It does not produce the material, but influ- 
ences the assimilation of the other principles of food by 
well-established processes. Although it is essential to 
the formation of every structure in the body, it is an 
especially essential constituent of the brain and ner- 
vous system. A diet with a deficiency of fat tends to 
produce diseased conditions in the direction of scrofula 
and consumption. Cod-liver oil is not properly a med- 
icine ; it is a fatty diet given with a view of supplying 
what is supposed to be lacking in the system. It is af- 
firmed that if one takes and assimilates a sufiicient 
quantity^ of fat in the ordinary diet, one is not liable to 
have consumption or nervous diseases. 

In foods supplying all the necessary elements for 
sustaining life, fat constitutes a considerable proportion 



Fat. 19 

— for instance, milk, eggs, etc. The yolk of the Qgg is 
about one third fat. 

Dr. Radcliffe says, "There is no essential difference 
as to the chemical composition between vegetable albu- 
men and fibrine, and leguniine and oily matters, and 
animal albumen and fibrine, and caseine and oily mat- 
ters; there is no perceptible difference in the albumi- 
nose or peptone into whicli the vegetable and animal 
nitrogenous substances are alike transformed in tlie pro- 
cess of digestion ; there is no difference in the way in 
which the vegetable and animal oily matters are emul- 
sified and then taken up directly into the general circu- 
lation of the blood." 

Another writer says : " If the inhabitants of the Arctic 
regions gorge themselves with animal fat, those of warm 
countries take the same thing in vegetable oils. In most 
warm climates olive-oil is taken, and in India ghee, with 
no inconvenience to digestion and with unmistakable 
benefit." 

An interesting article on the subject of fats, by Dr. 
Radcliffe, was published in the Popular Science Monthly 
(March, 1883). It is in the form of a dialogue between 
a physician and a young man who had eaten a breakfast 
of lean meat and toast in anticipation of a hard day's 
rowing. The physician explains to the young man his 
mistake, and shows that, as force-producing agents, fat 
and oil are as necessary as fibrine or albumen. 

He also says : " I find that very many persons suffer- 
ing from various chronic disorders of the nervous sys- 
tem have abstained from the fatty and oily articles of 
food, and that their state is almost invariably very much 
changed for the better when induced to take what they 
have avoided." 

Because we have, perhaps, been mistaken in taking 
too little fat in the past, it is not recommended that too 
large a quantity be taken in the future. 



20 Remarks about Foods. 

Pavy says the supply ought not to be less, even with 
inactivity, than one ounce daily, and that about two and 
a half ounces will constitute the average amount in the 
dietaries recommended for working people. 

Fresh milk furnishes fat in proper proportions. 
Cream and butter furnish the most assimilable fat. 
Bread generously buttered (not too much so, however), 
meat with streaks of fat, and the oil dressing on salads 
will ordinarily afford a sufficient supply. Pork fat is 
the most objectionable of the fats to persons of seden- 
tary habits. 

Dobell says : " When it is necessary, for any special 
object,* to reduce the quantity of carbon taken in the 
aliments, this can more safely be done by diminishing 
the saccharine, amylaceous (sugar and starch) matters, 
than the fat." 

Eggs. 

Eggs contain all that is required for the building 
and maintenance of the body. They are, therefore, a 
most invaluable article of food. The white is almost 
pure albumen and water, and the yolk contains the fat 
and other necessary constituents. They are more easily 
digested when taken raw or slightly cooked, as described 
for poached eggs (cooked in water below the boiling- 
point). Continued boiling, or cooking in any manner, 
toughens the albumen and renders it difficult of diges- 
tion. Indeed, a valuable cement is made by thickening 
the white of egg with powdered quicklime, and heating 
it. The whole egg can be made hard and tough enough 
by heating to become a cement of itself. 

ElCE. 

Rice is very rich in starch, and poor in fat and al- 
buminous matter. It contains less than half the muscle- 

* For instance, to reduce corpulency. — Ed. 



Corn-starch, Arrow-root^ Sago, Tapioca, etc. 21 

supporting elements of wheat, and only one fourth as 
much of those going to support the brain and nerves. 
Kice-eaters ure, therefore, feeble and indolent. The de- 
ficiencies, however, can be supplied by cooking it with 
milk or eggs. 

It is very digestible, requiring only little more than 
an hour for the process. In weak conditions of the 
stomach and bowels it is valuable. Rice-water, a thin 
mucilage, is a drink often administered with benefit 
in fevers and in inflammation of the bowels. 

CORN-STAKCII AND AeEOW-EOOT. 

Corn -starch, and arrow -root, composed chiefly of 
starch, are inadequate to sustain life without the addi- 
tion of milk or other nutritive substances. 

Sago and Tapioca. 
These are also starch foods, and they rank very low 
in an alimentary point of view. They are chiefly used 
as pleasant additions to custard puddings, and as a 
thickening for soups. 

Beans and Pease. 
These are rich in nutritious material. Their muscle- 
making element is not gluten, as in the grains, but 
caseine, as in cheese, a substance not so easily digested as 
gluten, and therefore only adapted to strong and ac- 
tive persons, with good powers of digestion. 

Gelatine. 
Jellies and blanc-mange made with gelatine are very 
appetizing, but cannot be relied on as furnisliing 
nourishment. Calves' -foot jelly was once regarded 
as a valuable dish in the sick-room. It is a very pleas- 
ant vehicle for serving wine or milk ; but, beyond this. 



22 Remarhs about Foods. 

it is now believed to be valueless by all the best authori- 
ties. Several years ago a committee was appointed by 
the French Academy of Sciences to ascertain the die- 
tetical value of gelatine. This was on account of tlie 
fact that gelatinous extract of bones was being fed to 
the inmates of hospitals with apparently deleterious re- 
sults. The commission, with Magentie at its head, re- 
ported gelatine to be substantially w^orthless as a diet. 

Tomatoes. 

The tomato, according to Dio Lewis, is a medicinal 
vegetable containing some amount of calomel — enough 
to produce a degree of salivation if used too freely. He 
thinks the tomato should be used moderately in cooked 
form, as a sauce, etc. He has known, in his practice, of 
patients suffering with sore mouths, tender and bleeding 
gums, with loose teeth, and with piles, produced by the 
immoderate use of tomatoes. 

However wholesome a certain amount of cooked 
fresh tomatoes may be, the physicians generally de- 
nounce the use of them when put up in tin cans. The 
tendency of the acid of the vegetable is to corrode the 
tin, and thereby, to some degree, poison the tomatoes. 

FpwUits — Grapes, Bananas, etc. 
Fruits are cooling, aperient, and nutritious, and are al- 
most as necessary to a healthful dietary as the grains, 
especially in warm climates. They cool and refresh us 
in summer, supplying grateful acids and fluids. They 
are grown on all inhabitable parts of the earth, and 
many of them can be kept in all seasons. Different 
varieties of fruits follow each other in close succession 
during the season of growth, the acid fruits coming gen- 
erally in the spring, when the system needs anti-bilious 
food, after the winter dietary. 



Fruits. 23 

Next to the apple, the king of fruits, the grape is 
probably the most valuable in our climate. Its bene- 
ficial action seems almost medicinal. After eating the 
grape regularly for some time, when it is fresh picked 
from the vine and redolent of the sun, general exhilara- 
tion is produced ; the blood seems richer and a healthy 
glow of color comes to the cheeks. Besides the tonic 
effect, the grape contains much nourishment. 

They have in France, Switzerland, and Germany 
w^hat are called grape-cures, where persons suffering 
from dyspepsia, scrofula, gout, and cutaneous diseases 
are treated during the grape season with much success. 
Patients eat the grapes to repletion several times a day, 
and at regular intervals, generally taking nothing with 
them but bread-and-butter and water. Dr. Barthelow 
says, however : " The influence of change of air, of scen- 
ery, and of the hygienic rules enforced at these resorts 
sliould not be ignored in an estimate of the value of the 
method." Hot-house grapes, and the California grapes 
after transportation to the Eastern States, will not an- 
swer the purpose, nor take the place of the Isabella, 
Concord, Catawba, and other varieties grown in the open 
air, fully ripe and fresh from the vine. 

Another nutritive fruit is the banana. It contains a 
large percentage of starch and sugar, and enough nitrog- 
enous matter to make it of alimentary value. It is 
similar in composition to the potato. In some tropical 
countries it is much used as a food. On a plantation 
in Cuba the owner took us to see the negroes prepare 
their dinner. A huge iron pot, hanging over burning 
fagots, was filled with a combination of materials mak- 
ing a sort of ragout. The chief ingredient, they told 
us, was the banana. 

For invalids, berries with hard seeds — strawberries, 
raspberries, etc. — are often indigestible. Many of our 



24: Remarks about Foods. 

marketable strawberries are so very acid and devoid of 
flavor, that they, especially, cannot be recommended to 
invalids. 

Stewed fruits (compotes) are very wholesome and 
beneficial for almost any one. They should be served 
in some form every day, provided a laxative diet is not 
at the time objectionable. 

When oranges, and they are especially excellent in 
all febrile conditions, are administered to invalids, they 
should be quite sweet. There seem to be as many 
varieties of oranges as of apples. Although a juicy, 
crisp, moderately sweet, and well-ripened apple is the 
most wholesome and digestible of fruits, there are ap- 
ples which can defy the ordinary stomach, and which 
set the teeth on edge to even think about ; so it is with 
some oranges, which are only fit for orangeade. The 
sweet, juicy, thin-skinned, little Florida orange, and the 
more rugged skinned, though juicy and sweet, Havana 
ornnge can be judiciously given to almost any invalid, 
while their more common and acrid relatives should be 
as carefully avoided. 

Baked apples served with cream and sugar are a 
standard dish for the sick-room. They are digestible, 
laxative, and very wholesome. 

The dried fruits, especially the California dried pears 
and the white apple-chips, are very refreshing and safe, 
and should be more used when fresh fruits cannot be 
obtained. 

If fruits are not quite ripe, or do not agree with one, 
cooking them with sugar increases their digestibility. 

Acid fruits put up in tin cans are exceedingly doubt- 
ful. If they taste of the tin, they are not at all doubt- 
ful. Avoid them. Probably, in the future, tomatoes 
and acid fruits will be generally put up in glass jars, if 
something else less breakable than glass, and without 



Sea-moss Farine and Sea Moss. 25 

the objections to tin, cannot be found. Here is an op- 
portunity for some inventor. 

Sea-Moss Fakine and Sea Moss. 

An article was sold several years ago, at all the gro- 
cers, called sea -moss farine. It was a most excellent 
preparation, especially valuable for invalids, and could 
be made into various blanc-manges and puddings, ac- 
cording to directions accompanying the packages. I 
have tried in vain to obtain it within the last two or 
three years, and it seems to be out of market. I hope 
very much to see it in market again, as it is an especial- 
ly valuable health-food. 

Sea moss is very nutritious, exceedingly digestible 
and wholesome, and can be used to advantage for al- 
most any invalid. Its flavor takes one to the sea-shore, 
it matters not how far away. The blanc-manges made 
from the Irish and Iceland mosses are especially good. 
2 



THE NEW HEALTH- FOODS AKB OTHER 
GRAIN PREPARATIONS. 

The new methods of preparing cereals by the Healtli- 
food Company of New York have produced the most 
gratifying results. These foods are of inestimable val- 
ue to the invalid. Indeed, they constitute a pleasant 
and wholesome diet for any one. Tlieir use tends to 
preserve health, and preservation is far pleasanter than 
restoration. 

The manufacture of foods after methods based on 
careful scientific investigation, specially adapted to the 
needs of different individuals and diseases — for instance, 
foods for the corpulent, or the excessively lean, for in- 
fants, for diabetics and dyspeptics, and for persons gen- 
erally debilitated, ^vhere serviceable treatment must be 
chiefly dietetic, is of especial value. 

Heretofore in the treatment of diabetes, where the 
patient is obliged to eschew all foods containing starch 
or sugar, thereby depriving him of bread and all grain 
preparations, the physician has had much embarrassment. 
The "Diabetic Food," consisting of gluten, which is 
nutritious and very digestible, is a boon to these suf- 
ferers. 

It is known that heretofore in milling wheat the 
most nutritive portion of the grain, the gluten, lying 
next to the hull, was removed. The white flour, mak- 
ing bread quite beautiful in appearance, is chiefly com- 
posed of starch, and is incapable of sustaining life. 

A distinguished physician said, " The intelligent 



Prepared Articles of Food. 27 

farmer knows liow to feed his land, his horses, his cat- 
tle, and his pigs ; but not how to feed his children. 
The fine flour, containing neither food for brain nor 
muscle, he gives to his children, and the whole grain or 
the bran and coarser part, containing food for brain 
and muscle, he gives to his pigs." 

Formerly, in the preparation of Graham flour and 
cracked wheat, although the full nutriment of the grain 
was preserved, the hull, a woody, fibrous skin, was re- 
tained. This proved to be irritating to some delicate 
stomachs, although authorities say that it serves a good 
purpose for vigorous persons, viz., of promoting by a 
healthy irritation the secretions and motion of the 
bowels. 

The Health-food Company manufacture, besides flour 
with its full richness of gluten, coarser preparations of 
the cereals, such as granulated wheat, oats, barley, corn, 
etc., with the silicious skin removed. 

Some of the articles prepared by this company, which 
may be commended as deserving, are : 

The CoLD-BLAST Whole Wheat Flouk — represented 
to contain the full nutrition of the grain. 

Pearled Wheat. — The whole grains of best wheat 
denuded of their bran coats. 

Granulated Wheat (Coarse) — which takes the place 
of the ordinary w beaten grits or cracked wheat, is also 
prepared without the bran coats. The last two prepa- 
rations make an especially palatable dish, prepared ac- 
cording to the Vienna Bakery receipt given on page 128. 

Granulated Wheat (Fine) — takes the place of Gra- 
liam flour. This flour can be employed in the various 



28 The New Health-foods, etc. 

ways in which Graham flour is used, viz., for making 
bread, crackers, mush, pancakes, croquettes, puddings, 
thickenings for soups, sauces, etc. 

This company prepares also White Wheat Glutei, 
a concentrated, digestible, and nutritious food. Being 
free from starch, it is recommended to those suffering 
from dyspepsia, diabetes, and Eright's disease, and also 
as an anti-fat diet. 

It was not found to be very palatable by the author. 
It can be made into bread "gems," mush, pancakes, 
puddings, etc. If some starch be unobjectionable, the 
gluten is much pleasanter to tlie taste "wlien mixed with 
flour, rice, or barley. 

Geanulated Baeley. — Bellows says of barley : " This 
cereal compares well with wheat in nutritive elements, 
but does not form bread ; is used for making barley- 
cakes, which are valuable for persons inclined to con- 
stipation, containing, as it does, more of waste which is 
the natural stimulant of the bowels. Barley is peculiar 
also for its richness in phosphates, having more than 
twice the amount contained in wheat; and therefore 
might be made useful to literary men of sedative hab- 
its, adapted as it is both to promote the action of the 
brain and bowels." 

The pearl barley ordinarily used in soups is a grain 
that does not dissolve in the cooking process, and is 
quite unfit to be used in the sick-room. 

The " Granulated Barley " of the Health-food Com- 
pany dissolves as easily as rice. It is a valuable prepa- 
ration and can be used to great advantage in a variety 
of puddings, the best being a souffle pudding (page 192) ; 
also in pancakes, gruel, thickening for soups, blanc- 
mange, etc. 



Prepared Ai'tieles of Food. 29 

The best preparation I have seen for making barley 
gruel (one of the most valuable of gruels) is Kobinson's 
barley flour. It is manufactured in England, but is 
very generally sold here by the druggists. It is exceed- 
ingly palatable and valuable for invalids. 

Peaeled Oats. — Good for making porridge ; also the 
Geanulated Oats, admirable for puddings, gruels, etc., 
and the Oat Flour, especially good for gruels. These 
are all articles which can be used beneficially in many 
different ways. 

" Cekeal Coffee" — made of barley and wheat glu- 
ten parched. It is a good substitute for tea and coffee. 
It has some of the coffee flavor and is without more 
stimulant than is imparted by any nourishing drink. 

Among other of the health -food preparations are 
crackers made of the cold -blast flour, gluten, oats, 
granulated wheat, etc. 

The manufacturers of what is known as the new 
patent - process flour claim that it also contains the 
full gluten of the grain. The flour is necessarily of a 
creamy color, gluten being light brown in appearance. 
This flour can be obtained of grocers in all of the large 
cities. If the flour sold for the "new-process" flour 
is purely white, it is not genuine. If the necessary 
amount of gluten is retained it must color it to some 
extent, indeed, to the extent of giving it a decidedly 
creamy hue. 

There are agencies in the large cities for cereal foods 
(oatmeal, barley, groats, hominy, cornmeal, etc.) pre- 
pared at Akron, Ohio, which are most excellent. The 
Graham flour from this source is especially fine. 



30 The New Health-foods^ etc. 

The best oatmeal which can be obtained is the im- 
ported Irish oatmeal. It can be purchased of the first- 
class grocers in New York, but the author has not been 
able to find it elsewhere. It is more palatable than the 
Scotch or American oatmeal, the grain being much 
larger. 

The concentrated foods so industriously advertised 
are not recommended by the authorities. A certain 
amount of bulk is necessary, and the less nutritive por- 
tions of food perform a very necessary function in the 
process of digestion. 



KOUMISS. 

This nutritions beverage, made of fermented milk, 
lias been hitherto comparatively unknown in our coun- 
try. It has been used for centuries in Tartary and in 
Asiatic Russia. It is there chiefly made of mares' milk 
(see Appendix). Mares' milk differs from cows' milk, 
the former possessing (according to Pavy) a smaller 
amount of nitrogenous matter and butter, and a much 
larger amount of sugar. By adding sugar to cows' 
milk a koumiss may be obtained superior in its nutri- 
tive properties to that made of mares' milk. 

Koumiss is of incalculable value for almost all inva- 
lids, containing the full nutriment of milk and the 
stimulating qualities of wines and liquors without any 
ill-effects. 

Dr. Dobell, of London, in his valuable work on " Diet 
and Regimen," says: "Koumiss, when properly pre- 
pared, is a highly refreshing, effervescent preparation of 
milk obtained by a natural process of fermentation, in 
which the albumen and caseine are partly digested, while 
its abundance of free carbonic acid makes it sedative 
to the most irritable stomach, so that it has succeeded 
in numerous cases, recorded by medical practitioners, 
where stimulants, beef -tea, and rectal enemata, aided 
by the most varied pharmacopoeial treatment, had alike 
failed. 

" Its chief qualities are : 

"(a.) Its agreeable, refreshing, and highly digestible 
character. 



32 Koumiss. 

"(^.) Its attested and rare powers of nutrition, in 
the most desperate cases of emaciation, chronic vomit- 
ing, dyspepsia, gastric pain, and irritability, and of 
debility following acute or accompanying chronic dis- 
eases. 

"((?.) The avidity and pleasure with which it is drank 
by children, women, and men, in health and disease, and 
in its remarkable success in allaying vomiting and gas- 
tralgia, and in restoring the nutrition." 

Dr.Eoberts Barthelow, in his " Materia Medica," says : 
"Koumiss differs from whey in containing the nutritive 
constituents of milk, and from milk itself in the impor- 
tant respect that it is, in addition, an effervescing, alco- 
holic fluid. . . . The tolerance of the stomach to koumiss 
is remarkable, even in cases of gastralgia. It improves 
the appetite, and excites the action of the kidneys. The 
patients experience a pleasing exhilaration, due proba- 
bly to the combined action of the carbonic acid and the 
alcohol. It also causes somnolence during the da}^ and 
favors sleep at night, without leaving any after head- 
ache. Its most important action is the increase of the 
body nutrition. . . . Koumiss possesses great value in 
the treatment of consumption, chronic bronchitis, the 
low stages of fever, the stage of convalescence from 
acute diseases — in fact, in all adynamic states in which 
the combined effect of alcohol and nutrients may be de- 
sirable." 

Jaqielsky says that he has had patients gain as much 
as ten pounds a month, when no other food was taken. 

Koumiss, in its administration, may be given like 
milk or beer. In extreme cases of feebleness of diges- 
tion, this being the only food, a glassful every two hours 
would be sufficient. With increased facility of diges- 
tion and assimilation from a quart to a gallon a day 
may be taken. When served with other food, a glass- 



Merits of Koumiss. 33 

fill can be drank before or after a meal as preferred. 
It is a food in itself — a solid food, like milk, containing 
all the elements or requisites of nutrition. The caseine 
of milk turns into curd in the stomach, and leaves a 
solid residue. It is estimated that each quart of kou- 
miss contains four ounces of solid food. 

After such a richesse of authority (and there is much 
more before me) it would seem unnecessary to mention 
that I have become enthusiastic as to the merits of 
koumiss, after having seen its almost miraculous effects 
upon a member of our own family. In this case no 
food whatever seemed assimilable until koumiss was 
prescribed. This led me to investigate and experiment 
with the making of koumiss with results which I hope 
will prove as satisfactory to others as myself. 

There are two kinds of koumiss — one quite acid, like 
that generally sold at pharmacies in the large cities ; the 
imported koumiss is also quite acid. The venders of 
this koumiss say that it improves with age, that two or 
three years old being considered especially good. This 
acid koumiss would be indicated in cases of fever, rlieu- 
matism, etc., when acid drinks, such as buttermilk, lem- 
onade, etc., are relished and required. 

For a more ordinary and general drink the sweet 
koumiss (perhaps it can hardly be called sweet, as the 
flavor is pungent, not unlike beer), made as imperfectly 
indicated in many of the medical works is preferable. 
This is at its best from four days to a month old. In 
my own experience, there were several days when our 
invalid craved something acid. Not having the proper 
acid koumiss at hand, it was found that some koumiss 
which had curdled and soured (this comes from the bot- 
tle as effervescent as that which has not curdled), agreed 
with her perfectly when buttermilk proved indigestible. 
After two or three days the appetite no longer called 
2* 



34 Koumiss. 

for acid, and the sweet koumiss was more assimilable as 
well as better relished.* 

When it is desired to give koumiss to babies, they can 
either suck it from the end of the champagne-tap, the 
screw being turned very slightly, or a little koumiss can 
be drawn into a pitcher and poured from one pitcher to 
another until most of the gas has escaped. The infant 
can then drink it as milk. 

To Make Koumiss. 

The making of koumiss is very simple. It requires 
perfectly fresh milk, good yeast, a little sugar, strong 
bottles (those used for champagne, beer, etc.), a corking- 
machine (price, fifty cents), a little tuition in the profes- 
sional manner of tying corks in bottles, a thermometer, 
a funnel, a cold, dark place in a cellar answering the 
purpose of a beer cave, and voila tout — not quite all 
though, for if one's life or the roof of the house is re- 
garded of value, a bottle of koumiss should not be 
opened without a champagne-tap. 

Fill a quart bottle about three quarters full of fresh 
milk, and add a tablespoonful of fresh (brewers') lager- 
beer yeast, and a tablespoonful of sugar-syrup (the syrup 
is made allowing three lumps of sugar — little squares of 
loaf sugar — or a tablespoonful of ordinary white sugar, 
for each quart of milk; enough water to cover the sugar 
is added, and it is boiled a couple of minutes to make 
the syrup, not allowing it to candy) ; shake the bottle 
well for a full minute, to thoroughly mix all the ingre- 
dients, then fill it to within two or three inches of the 
top ; shake again, to get all well-mixed. Cork it with a 

* The author, since writing this, has had occasion to know of several 
other invalids wiio have tried koumiss. Tlie very acid koumiss usually 
sold by druggists was quite unsatisfactory, excepting for temporary use for 
fever, whereas the fresh koumiss was marvellously successful. 



Bottling Koumiss. 



35 



cork a third of a size larger than the mouth of the 
bottle. The corks must have been previously soaked 
for two or three hours, iinmersed in hot water over a 
warm stove, when they become soft; they are then 
pushed through the corking-macliine (see cut) with a 
hammer, or, better, a wooden mallet; quite heavy and 
vigorous blows of the mallet on the 
handle of the machine will not break 
the bottle, as one might suppose. 
The corks are then tied. When this 
operation is all completed, put the 
bottles in a standing position in an 
even (or as nearly so as possible) 
temperature of 52° Fahr.,"^ where 
they should remain for two and a 
half days. Some closed closet or 
cellar in w^inter or a refrigerator in 
summer will generally afford this 
temperature. This slow fermenta- 
tion is desirable. At the end of the 
two days to two days and a half, 
place the bottles on their sides and 
on the stone-floor of the darkest and 
coolest place in the cellar — or, in 
default of such place, in a refrigera- ^ ^ 
tor. Many consider koumiss at its "-^ 
best when it is five or six days old, 
but it can be kept indefinitely if 
kept in a temperature not above 52°. The colder it is 
kept without freezing the better. The brewers' lager- 
beer yeast is decidedly the best for making what I call 
the sweet koumiss, imparting to it a beer flavor. As the 

* My first instructions were to leave the koumiss at this stage in a tem- 
perature of 62° for the two and a half days, but I have found, by experi- 
menting, that a temperature as low as 52° produces even better results. 



.-^ 




CORK MACHINE. 



36 Koumiss. 

koumiss is drawn it should appear in the glass like thick 
whipped cream. The koumiss will become acid by long 
standing, or by placing it in a higher temperature. 

Yery good koumiss can also be made with Fleisch- 
man's Compressed Yeast. A fifth of a two-cent cake 
of this yeast to a quart of milk is the proper proportion. 
It should be well-dissolved before it is added to the 
milk. The proportion of sugar or syrup is the same as 
when the other yeast is used. 

If the milk is quite fresh and sweet, and the bottles 
are perfectly clean and free from acid, there is little dan- 
ger of the koumiss curdling. If it should -become cur- 
dled, it can be used for cooking purposes. It makes 
the best of biscuits, pancakes, or anything which can be 
made with sour milk. 

Most of the medical works advise the use of old kou- 
miss instead of yeast to produce fermentation. This 
I would not recommend. After the koumiss is made 
one or two days, a thick curd (the caseine) will gen- 
erally be found at the top. It is also recommended to 
turn the bottles two or three times (not shake them, for 
fear of explosion) so as to mix this curd with the liquid 
below. I was quite particular about this at first, but, 
becoming more negligent, found that the koumiss was 
quite as good without this care. When the bottles are 
turned to the side (after the two and a half days), the 
caseine is loosened from the top, and when the koumiss 
is drawn, the effervescing gas accomplishes the mixing. 

To Tie the Bottles. — With a strong hemp twine 
make a loop as in Fig. 1, page 37. 

In Fig. 2, the twine at a is drawn up, and in Fig. 3 it 
is placed over the top of the cork. The two ends, 5, ^, 
are drawn as firmly as possible under the rim of the 
bottle, c, as in Fig. 3. 



To Tie and Cork the Bottles, 



37 



The ends, 5, 5, are then tied firmly over the top of the 
cork, Fig. 4. If the twine is not quite strong, the bot- 
tle can be doubly tied. 

The Cokks. — The corks should be obtained at a cork 
factory or wholesale cork store. The directories in the 
larger cities will give sucli 
addresses. They there cost 
fifty to sixty cents a ^^-^:^^^ ^^ I'^igi- 

gross, instead of a cent h 




the same size, the same corl 



each as at the druggists. 
The straight cork used 
by the Anheuser Eeer 
Company is of the proper 
size and of best quality. 
The necks of champagne 
and beer bottles are of 
answerine: for either. 



To Clean the Bottles. — If the koumiss is not acid, 
merely cleansing the bottles, as soon as emptied, and 
tilling them with cold water will be sufficient. If any 
acid remain in the bottle, shake it well, half filled with 



38 



Koumiss. 



water, with a half teaspoonful of soda added. Ponr 
this out, add another half teaspoonful of soda, fill the 
bottle with water, and let it renriain until it is wanted 
for use, when it should be rinsed with fresh water. 

The Champagne Tap. — It 
must be repeated that the kou- 
miss bottle should never be 
opened except by a champagne 
tap. The best one for the pur- 
pose that I have found is rep- 
resented in cut. 
There is another kind of tap with 
a wire enclosed in a tube, which wire has to 
be withdrawn after it is in the cork, before 
the screw is turned. The developments 
are disastrous while the wire is being 
drawn out, before the very important screw 
can be turned. 

After the tap is in the bottle, keep the 
neck of the bottle always down to prevent 
the escape of gas. Keep the bottle also in 
a cool, dark place. 

It has occurred to me that the making of 
koumiss might often afford profitable em- 
ployment for women. After perfecting 
themselves in its manufacture, they might send notices 
and samples to neighboring physicians and then sell it 
through the agency of druggists or grocers ; the latter 
having generally better means for the transportation 
and delivery of articles. The difficulty in procuring 
quite fresh milk in the large cities might preclude its 
best manufacture there. 




CHAMPAGNE 
TAP. 



ARTIFICIAL DiaUSTIOlSr BY MEAN'S OF 
PANGBEATIC FERMENTS. 

Impoktant discoveries have lately been made in the 
matter of supplying artificially digested, or partly di- 
gested, food, which is of great benefit in the treatment 
of certain diseased conditions. The digestive agent is 
pancreatic juice, or ferment, which can be taken from 
animals in an active, potent form. This is mixed with 
milk, milk gruel, milk punch, beef tea, and other foods, 
as explained in the receipts. Such digested food is es- 
pecially indicated w^ien there is an inability to digest 
the casein e of milk, or starch or fats, as often occurs 
with infants unable to retain milk in the stomach, and 
with consumptives who cannot digest fats. It is also 
indicated in cases of extreme emaciation or weakness, 
in cases of typhoid fevers,* and especially in gastric 
troubles brought on by alcoholic excesses. 

It is probably better to resort to artificial digestion 
only in extreme cases, where exercise and bracing air 
cannot accomplish their usual results in aid of natural 
digestion. 

Pepsin for stomachic indigestion has long been in 
use. Much of the digestive process, especially in the 
case of fats and starches, takes place when the food has 
left the stomach and entered the large intestine. This 

* The ulcerated bowels, common to typhoid fever, must not be exposed 
to the irritation of foods that leave a solid residue after digestion. The 
curdling of the caseine of milk can be prevented by giving it already di- 
gested (peptonized). 



40 Artificial Digestion. 

may be called intestinal digestion. It is here that the 
pancreatic ferment does its work. 

For information on this subject, viz., the practical use 
of pancreatic extract and its action on the human sys- 
tem treated philosophically, we are indebted to Dr. 
William Eoberts, of Manchester, England. This infor- 
mation was given in a series of lectures before the 
Royal College of Physicians, which have since been 
published in book form, entitled " On the Digestive 
Ferments." 

In our own country a preparation of the pancreas, 
called "Extractum Pancreatis," is made by Fairchild 
Brothers & Foster, ^N'ew York City. Mr. Fairchild has 
published a small book on the subject, having given it a 
very thorough investigation. His extract is in powdered 
form, is easily kept, and quite perfect in its results. 

Dr. Horace Dobell has also contributed valuable in- 
formation on the same subject ; having, in fact, pre- 
ceded Dr. Roberts in his publications. His experi- 
ments have been chiefly directed to the action of the 
pancreas on fats.* An article, which can be obtained 
in most of our large cities (prepared by Savory & 
Moore, of London), called "Pancreatic Emulsion," i. e., 
pancreatized suet, cod-liver oil, etc., is the result of his 
investigations. This aliment is considered especially 
valuable for consumptives. (See Appendix, p. 212.) 

Dr. Dobell says : " Pancreatic emulsion has proved 
most magical in its effects on miserable, wasted children 
— children who have been subjected to chronic defects 
in diet ; for instance, when the mother's milk is poor 
in fat and lactine, or when the child's diet has been de- 

* The albuminoids and starch have been digested with pepsin and vege- 
table diastase; no other digestive agent has been found to emulsify f^it but 
pancreatine ; the pancreas, however, is the only organ concerned in the 
digestion of fiat. 



To Peptonize Milk. 41 

ficient in milk and fat elements, and the pancreas has 
been partly paralyzed by prolonged inactivity, causing a 
kind of wasting (marasmus)." 

In the preparation of the various foods with the pan- 
creatic extract, the process of digestion is stopped a 
little short of completion, to prevent the formation of 
offensive products which full digestion would develop. 

In any of the following receipts the milk or food 
may be more or less peptonized.* For ordinary cases, 
especially for infants, it is better to partially peptonize 
the food. The degree of peptonizing is best determined 
by the readiness with which the food is assimilated by 
the patient. To check the action of the digestive fer- 
ment, the food, when sufficiently peptonized, can either 
be placed on ice, which at once arrests all action (and is 
a commentary on the reckless habit of drinking ice- 
water), or it can be scalded, or brought to the boiling- 
point. It is afterwards kept like ordinary milk. Pep- 
tonized milk gruel is generally preferred to the pepton- 
ized milk. 

To Peptonize Milk. 

In a clean quart bottle put a powder of five grains of 
Extractum Pancreatis (about a quarter of a teaspoonful), 
also fifteen grains of sodaf (a pinch), and a gill of water 
(half a cupful) ; shake it, then add a pint of quite fresh 
milk. 

Place the bottle in a pitcher of hot water, or set the 
bottle aside in a warm place for an hour, or an hour 
and a half, to keep the milk warm — about 110°, or the 
natural temperature of the body. "When the contents 
of the bottle assume a grayish-yellow color, and a 
slightly bitter taste, then the milk is thoroughly pep- 

* The word peptonized is used as synonymous with pancreatized. 
f A newer preparation of the pancreatic extract comes already mixed 
with soda. 



42 Artificial Digestion. 

toiiized. When partially peptonized it has no bitter 
taste, and but little appearance of change. When the 
milk is peptonized (sufficiently for the patient), either 
scald or bring it to the boiling-point (to prevent further 
digestion), or place it on ice until used. It can be taken 
like ordinary milk. (Sec Appendix, p. 213.) 

Peptonized milk may be sweetened to taste, or used 
for making punch, with rum, etc., or it can be made 
into jelly; indeed, it can take the place of ordinary 
milk in any of the various dishes in which milk is used. 

Peptonized Milk Geuel. 
Half a pint (a cupful) of well-boiled gruel (of barley 
flour, Graham flour, or granulated w^heat, corn, or oat- 
meal) is added while still boiling hot, to half a pint of 
cold milk. The mixture will have a temperature of 
about 125° ; add to this five grains (quarter of a tea- 
spoonful) of the Extractum Pancreatis, and fifteen 
grains of soda, and let it stand until peptonized, the 
same as for peptonized milk, both as to making and 
preserving. 

Peptonized Milk Jelly. (Very palatable.) 
Ingredients: one pint of peptonized milk heated to 
boiling ; one quarter of a pound of sugar ; a half-box 
of Coxe's or Nelson's gelatine; the juice and the thin 
yellow cuts of the rind of one lemon ; the juice of one 
orange; three or four tablespoonfuls of Jamaica rum. 

Add the sugar and the thin cuts of the rind of the 
lemon to the milk. Soak the gelatine for half an 
hour or more, in enough cold water to merely cover it, 
then add a gill of boiling w^ater, and when quite dis- 
solved add the juices of the lemon and orange, and 
also the rum. Add this to the sweetened milk when 
it has partially cooled, and pass it through a little wire 



Pejptonized Milk Jelly. 43 

milk- strainer or sieve. Four it into cups or moulds 
(previously wet with cold water), and set in a cold 
place. 

This jelly can be made of any flavor, with or without 
wine or spirits. It is very good when flavored with 
lemon or orange alone, or with lemon or almond ex- 
tract. 

When the milk is thoroughly peptonized (brought to 
a point when a slight bitter taste is detected), lemon 
juice or acids will not curdle it, as with the ordinary 
milk. 

The milk gruels can be used as well as the milk it- 
self in making jelly. 



GBAPE JUICE. 

The value of simple grape juice as a beverage has 
become but recently known, principal attention here- 
tofore having been directed to its fermentation into 
wine. For the invalid the simple grape juice is far 
preferable, the natural tonic of the grape being ob- 
tained without the inflammatory effects of alcohol. In 
flavor the natural bouquet of the grape is preserved. 
No beverage, aside from water, is more generally whole- 
some and palatable. In some of the hygienic insti- 
tutes it is prepared in large quantities and drank in 
place of tea or coffee at meals. 

It was introduced into St. Louis by Dr. Dodds in 
1872. I am indebted to her for the mode of its prep- 
aration. Its manufacture provides a new industry for 
the farmers and canning companies, as the use of simple 
grape juice is destined to become general. 

Its preparation is as follows : Take grapes thorough- 
ly ripe and fresh from the vine. The Concord and 
Isabella are especially good, but any fresh, ripe, and 
juicy grape may be used. Allow one quart of water 
to three quarts of grapes freed from the stems. Use 
no sugar. Let it come slowly to a boil, and when the 
whole mass is boiling hot strain the juice through a 
cheese-cloth, flour sack, or other strong cloth. Then 
return the liquor to the fire, and as soon as it is at the 
boiling-point again, can it. 

The less the fruit or juice is cooked the brighter will 



Canning of Grape Juice. 45 

be its color and the better the natural flavor of the 
grape will be retained. This, like all other articles to 
be canned, mnst be at the boiling-point when it is 
sealed. If the juice is to be used at once it should not 
be brought to the boiling-point a second time. Use 
wooden spoons in its preparation, and only glass jars 
for keeping it. The action of any acid substance on 
tin is to corrode it and poison the fruit. 

Before heating the grapes see that all the necessary 
preparations are complete, viz., that the jars and covers 
are clean, the covers fitted, and the hot water ready for 
holding the jars, etc. 

To avoid breaking the jars, manage them as follows : 
When the grape juice is nearly ready for canning, fill 
a large wooden tub about three quarters full with 
water quite hot, but below the boiling-point. Holding 
the jar sidewise, roll it over quickly in the water, and 
then set it right side up with the water in and around 
it. Continue in the same manner with other jars. 
Place the covers also in hot water. The juice being 
ready to be canned, roll one of the jars again quickly 
in the hot water, empty it, place it on a tin platter, 
and pour it full of the boiling juice, rather slowly at 
first. Wipe the moisture from the top of the can, 
adjust the rubber ring, and screw on the top (taken 
from the hot water and wiped dry) until it clasps 
the rubber tightly all around. Do it all as quickly 
as possible. Set this jar aside and proceed in the 
same way with the others. After the jars are cool 
enough to handle, screw down the tops again, and 
when entirely cold give them another twist in order 
that the sealing may be perfect. The best plan is to 
let them stand twenty-four hours and tighten them 
from time to time. Last of all, wipe them clean with 
a damp cloth, and set them away in a da7% cool 



46 Grape Juice. 

closet or cellar. If no dark cellar be at liaiid, wrap 
the bottles in heavy brown paper to exclude the 
light. The cooler tliey are kept without freezing the 
better. 



THE HOT -WATER CUBE, 

The drinking of simple hot water as a cure for rheu- 
matism, gout, dyspepsia, catarrh, etc., is new and very 
efficacious. In these diseases there is a sporous con- 
dition, or an animal or vegetable growth on the coat- 
ings of the stomach or respiratory tubes. The tenden- 
cy of Jiot water is to produce an irritation and excite 
an action of the mucous membranes of the tubes and 
stomach, which throws off or detaches diseased matter. 
The tendency of water is to wash off these impurities 
and to carry off through the kidneys any effete mat- 
ter. 

The water should be taken as hot as possible. It is 
often taken in a wooden goblet. It should be taken 
on an empty stomach, either half an hour before a meal 
or two hours after. Two or three quarts a day are 
taken by some, although ordinarily a glassful (a half- 
pint) is taken half an hour before breakfast, again at 
11 o'clock, and again at 4 p.m. 

Hot water taken in this manner, as a remedial agent, 
is a comparatively new discovery. It was found that 
rheumatism, gout, etc., were cured at the Hot Springs 
of Arkansas by the patients drinking quantities of the 
hot water at the springs. Experiments showed that 
any pure hot water was as good as that from these fa- 
mous springs, the diuretic effect being what was re- 
quired. 

A physician in New York told me that the hot- 



48 The Hot-water Cure. 

water mania had been carried too far. He never pre- 
scribed over three pints a day. Taking it by the gal- 
lon might answer in some cases for a short time, but 
could not be lone^ contiimed. 



DIET IN DIFFERENT DISEASES. 



DIET FOR INFANTS. , 

Eesoet to artificial food, though sometimes necessary, 
is always unfortunate for the baby. Trouble then be- 
gins. The baby fortunate enough to have a healthy 
mother and a natural diet acquires a strength and vigor 
which are of incalculable value in after-life. 

For the first three days of the baby's life a little 
sweetened water in a spoon is all-sufiicient. It is de- 
sirable to adopt, as far as practicable, regular periods 
for nursing. Once in every three hours during the 
daytime and about twice at night for the first month 
will generally bo sufficient. After the first month 
three times during the day and once in the night will 
ordinarily suffice. This may be continued until the 
child is six months old. 

According to many and the best authorities, no fari- 
naceous food or thickening of any kind whatever should 
be given to a child under six months old. (See Appen- 
dix, page 216.) The child is until then "wholly un- 
provided with the physiological machinery requisite for 
the digestion of starchy foods." After six months the 
capacity for digesting starchy foods commences, and 
then a little gruel of sifted Graham flour, or barley, 
or cornmeal may be given. If the mother can nurse 
the child even partially, it is better to do so. If she 
cannot nurse the child at all, of course it is far better 
to procure a wet nurse than resort to cow's milk. Great 
3 



50 Diet ill Different Diseases. 

care should be taken that the wet nurse be quite healthy 
and especially free from scrofulous or consumptive taint. 
If possible she should be of the same or nearly the same 
age as the mother, and her child and that of the mother 
sliould be of the same age. At nine months, or when 
the child has two or more teeth, it should be weaned. 
Not, however, during summer-time nor unless the child 
be quite well. 

If the baby must be fed from the bottle the difficul- 
ties are many. The milk should be quite fresh from a 
healthy and properly fed cow. Then if the bottles are 
left to nurses to be cleaned there is constant danger 
that the work will be negligently or insufficiently done. 
It is absolutely essential that they be scalded and freed 
of all acid contents. The milk should also be given 
lukewarm, or near the temperature of mother's milk. 
Dr. Gatchel, in his admirable little book on "What 
Shall I Eat," says, " Half the sickness from which in- 
fants suffer is produced by improper food and improper 
feeding." Sir C. Clark, an eminent London physician, 
once said, " The ignorance of mothers in feeding chil- 
dren is worth a thousand pounds a year to me." 

Cow's milk differs from human milk in that it con- 
tains more caseinc, more butter, and more saline matter, 
but less water and less sugar. This difference must be 
rectified by adding to cow's milk the necessary water 
and sngar. For the first month give equal parts of 
milk and water; say of cow's milk one half-pint, of 
pure water (distilled or boiled) one half-pint, with pow- 
dered sugar of milk a teaspoonful or one lump of loaf 
sugar. If the child's stomach should be a little acid, a 
teaspoonful of lime-water can be added to this quantity. 

After the infant is a month old use tw^o parts of milk 
to one of water with sugar as above stated. The milk 
should be obtained fresh twice a day. Two pans should 



Diet for Infants. 61 

be kept exclusively for the baby's use, and, before the 
milk is added, the pans, used alternately, should have 
been thoroughly cleansed, scalded, and dried. In sum- 
mer, the milk, if in danger of becoming sour, can be 
scalded when first put into the pan, but it must not be 
boiled. Glass jars are still better than tin pans for 
keeping milk.* Always use a fresh, clean bottle every 
time milk is given to the baby. Several bottles should 
be provided, also the black thimble rubber nipples ; the 
white are said to contain injurious ingredients. Never 
use the long rubber tube for the nursing-bottle, as it is 
almost impossible to keep it clean and free from acid. 

Dr. Gatchel says : " As soon as the child has taken 
enough for one feeding, empty from the bottle what 
remains, and, without delay, scald and wash the bottle 
with hot water and soap. After scalding, put the bot- 
tle into a basin of clean, cold water in which a little 
soda has been dissolved. Let it remain in the soda bath 
for half an hour, then rinse it in clean water and let it 
dry by hanging inverted on a peg." A Avire basket 
w^ould be better and more convenient than the peg. 

AVhile the baby is under a month old, the usual quan- 
tity for a meal should be the ordinary feeding-bottle 
half full. Afterwards the bottle nearly full. 

In its chemical properties, goats' milk approaches 
nearer than any other kind to human milk. Yery little 
water should be added to it — about four per cent, to 
make it suitable for infants. 

Probably the most perfect artificial substitute for hu- 
man milk is Liebig's food for infants, prepared accord- 
ing to strict cliemical principles. It is composed of malt 
flour, wheat flour, cow's milk, bicarbonate of potash, 
and water in such proportions as to imitate woman's 
milk as nearly as possible. 

* III regard to glass jars for keeping milk, see pnge 12. 



52 Diet in Different Diseases. 

Liebig's Keceipt. 

Take half an ounce of wheat flour, half an ounce of 
malt flour, and seven and a quarter grains of crystallized 
bicarbonate of potash, and, after mixing them well, add 
one ounce of water, then five ounces of cow's milk. 
Warm the mixture, continually stirring, over a very 
slow fire, till it becomes thick. Then remove the ves- 
sel from the fire, stir again for five minutes, put it back 
on the fire, finally let it boil well. 

It is necessary that the food should form a thin and 
sweet liquid previous to its final boiling. Before us- 
ing, it should be strained through a fine hair sieve. 

Pavy says, in regard to this receipt : " To avoid the 
trouble of weighing, as much wheat flour as will lie on 
a tablespoon is an ounce, and a moderate tablespoonful 
of malt flour corresponds with half an ounce." 

It is malt made from barley that should be used, and 
a common coffee-mill answers the purpose of grinding 
it into flour, which is to be cleaned from the husk by 
a coarse sieve. The bicarbonate of potash is added to 
neutralize the acid reaction of the two kinds of flour, 
and also to raise the amount of alkali in the food to the 
equivalent of that in woman's milk. 

The ferment in the malt leads, during the exposure 
to the warmth employed in the process of preparation, 
to the conversion of the starch of both the flours into 
dextrine and sugar, the latter of which gives the sweet 
taste that is required. The newly found products also 
being soluble, will account for the mixture being thin, 
and the point contended for by Liebig is, that the same 
principles in this state tax the digestive and assimi- 
lative powers of the infant much less than starch. 

Pap ok Thickened Milk. 
Ingredients: One pint of milk, two even tablespoon- 



Different Foods for Infayits. 53 

fills of flour, and a teaspoonf iil of sugar. The sugar is 
often omitted. 

Place the milk in a double boiler; when hot, stir in the 
flour, wet with two tablespoonf nls of cold milk ; let the 
water in the outer vessel boil hard for an hour. Or, 
the pap can be cooked directly over the Are, when ten 
minutes' simmering will be sufficient to cook the flour. 
Proper care should be taken, though, to prevent scorch- 
ing. This is pap proper ; but for a change, when it is 
just done and hot, the white of an (ig^ beaten to a stiff 
froth can be stirred in smoothly, without further cooking. 

It is very desirable to use the new -process flour (in 
which the full amount of gluten is retained) or cold- 
blast flour prepared by the Health-food Company. 

Crackers for Baby (over six months old). 

Crackers may be fed to babies over six months old. 
Either the Boston or soda crackers, the health - food 
lactic wafers, or cold-blast biscuits, or crackers made at 
home (see p. 122), of new-process flour, can be used. 

Pour over the cracker on a plate enough boiling 
water to cover it. Cover this with a saucer and let it 
remain in the oven for twenty minutes, or until it is 
quite soft and swollen. Then pour over some hot 
milk or thin cream. 

Bread Jelly, or Panada 
is most excellent for babies ten or twelve month old. 
(See p. 215.) 

Gruel for Babies. 

Any of the gruels are good for the baby. The 
barley gruel is most excellent. If troubled with consti- 
pation a cornmeal gruel is generally better than medi- 
cine. If with summer complaint, the flour gruel or 
pap is advisable. 



54 Diet in Different Diseases. 

Oatmeal Gkuel. — (Dr. Kice of Colorado.) 
Oatmeal is a very hearty food, too much so to be com- 
mended as a common diet for infants. For a change, 
though, it often suits most admirably. 

Add one teacupful of oatmeal to two quarts of boil- 
ing water very slightlj^ salted ; let tliis cook for two 
hours and a half, then strain it through a sieve. When 
cold, add to one gill of the gruel one gill of thin cream 
and one teaspoonful of sugar. To this quantity add 
one pint of boiling water, and it is ready for use. 

Beef. — (Dr. Eice.) 
Scrape one half pound of beef, and remove all the 
shreds ; add one half pint of water, and three drops of 
muriatic acid. Let it stand one hour ; then strain it 
through a sieve, and add a very small portion of salt. 

Mellin's Food for Infants. 
Mellin's food for infants, which is said to be merely 
the Liebig receipt carried out perfectly, is probably as 
good food for infants as can be purchased. It is an 
English preparation, but can be found for sale every- 
where, as the food is w^ell known and much used. 



DYSPEPSIA. 

Many conditions are requisite to insure good diges- 
tion, viz.: Wholesome food; food taken at proper in- 
tervals, so that it may be digested, and the stomach al- 
lowed some repose before another repast is taken ; 
sufficient sleep ; a mind free from nervous irritation, 
yet freely employed with projects, either useful or orna- 
mental; a rejection of stimulating beverages, condi; 
ments, and spices; and, important as the selection of 
food itself, physical exercise. The working classes have 
the health and strength. Men, as a class, with their 
active vocations, are healthier than women. Fashion- 
able women, as a general thing, do not take enougli 
muscular exercise to keep themselves in good condition. 
Walking is all very well, but it is only about a third 
enough. The chest muscles, the liver, the vital organs 
generally, do not get enough stirring up, by bending, 
twisting, lifting, etc., to keep up a natural circulation, 
much less to create a healthy demand for food. The 
demand for food under normal circumstances is in pro- 
portion to the amount of organic expenditure. 

It is this need of a free circulation of blood to take 
up food and carry it to perform its necessary functions, 
that causes half of the suffering from dyspepsia. Adi- 
rondack rowboats, mountain climbing, garden-making, 
and Dr. Oswald's woodshed matinees are all conducive 
to health and strength. Let those leading sedentary 
lives in the cities make Trianons of farmhouses and 



56 Dyspepsia. 

mountain camps, and plaj for a few weeks the roles of 
English dairymaids and French peasants or American 
pioneers. Plealth and civilization would be advanced. 
One is the complement of the other — " Les extremes se 
touchentP 

The new gymnastic machines (the Gifford patent) are 
admirable, if it did not seem something of a waste of 
power to thrust and wave the arms in the air to no 
practical purpose. It is possible, however, that the 
same systematic action and the same exercise of partic- 
ular muscles could not be accomplished so well in any- 
other way. The exercise of sweeping and cleaning a 
room is admirable for bringing many muscles into play. 
Yet out-door work — horseback riding, garden making, 
snow shovelling, water pumping — is better and pleas- 
anter. What a blessing it would be if all the hydrant 
water of the dwelling had to be pumped to the fourth 
story ! and pumped by the proprietors of the castle. 

Some do good service by exercising mornings and 
evenings in half undress with light dumb-bells. A 
happy idea is to shovel sand from one box to another, 
and continue the occupation daily. But if useful exer- 
cise which can interest the mind can be chosen, it is far 
preferable. If one wants to learn how to exercise, or 
rather to understand the importance of certain move- 
ments — it is well to do everything scientifically — a few 
lessons at an establishment where gymnastics, Swedish 
movements, exercises with vibratory-motion machines, 
and massage are conducted by competent physicians, 
would be of benefit. There are several such establish- 
ments in the large cities, and they are rapidly gaining 
in favor. 

Another principal cause of dyspepsia is the general 
taking of too highly seasoned food. Then follow the 
drug poisons. 



Diet for Dyspeptics. 57 

Dr. Oswald says, in relation to drugs : " What such 
tonics do is this, they goad the system into a transient 
and abnormal activity incident to the necessity of ex- 
pelling a virulent poison. . . . The system has wasted 
the organic energy which it seemed to revive." 

In chronic cases the best practice is undoubtedly to 
take all the out-door exercise possible, short of fatigue, 
to choose the most w^holesome of foods, and patiently 
await results. " Temporary blue devils are far prefer- 
able to a persistent blue-pill Beelzebub." 

3Iais pardon I disciples of Esculapius. The author 
is going too far without a physician's certificate, and 
should only talk about diet. 

Different foods must be tested, for what agrees with 
one, will not agree with all. A milk diet with farina- 
ceous foods — oat-meal porridge, cracked wheat, corn 
bread, etc. — act like a charm with some, while a few per- 
sons cannot digest milk. Koumiss and peptonized milk 
can generally be relied on when simple milk is unsatis- 
factory. Eaw-meat sandwiches, and the minced beef- 
steak (page 143), with as much pepper and salt accom- 
paniment as can be dispensed with, is often beneficial ; 
though meat should not be taken at the same time witli 
milk. Baked potatoes, mashed, with cream, poached 
eggs, uncooked eggs (page 141), baked apples, and 
stewed fruits generally, are quite wholesome. A most 
important article of diet for dyspeptics is Graham 
bread made of wheat partly or wholly denuded of its 
fibrous coating. 

A breakfast consisting of an oat -meal porridge, a 
cracked - wheat mould, or a generous slice of Boston 
brown bread, with cream poured over it, with hot water 
served in a teacup (see page 4) in place of tea or cof- 
fee — this and nothing more ; a dinner composed of a 
slice of rare roasted or broiled beef, mutton, or veni- 
3* 



68 Dysjpejpsia. 

son, or a piece of well-cooked chicken, or broiled fish, 
for a change (only one of them at a time, however), one 
or two vegetables, and a rice pudding, a blanc-mange, 
custard, or other plain pudding; and a supper or lunch- 
eon of bread and milk, or cornmeal mush and milk, a 
mock-cream toast, and a baked apple, or some stewed 
fruit — this well cooked and lightly seasoned will gen- 
erally appease an intractable stomach. 

Let nothing be over-seasoned. Too much salt pro- 
duces more or less inflammation and fever, and some 
liygienists banish it altogether, with the spices and con- 
diments. They argue that food contains ah^eady enough 
salt. Mattieu Williams says: "Salt is not a condiment, 
but a food, simply because it supplies the blood with 
one of its normal and necessary constituents, chloride 
of sodium, without wiiich we cannot live. A certain 
amount of it exists in most of our ordinary food, but 
not always sufficient." 

It should probably be used much more sparingly 
than is customary. 

Dietetic reforms should begin with a strictly non- 
stimulating diet. Let grape juice, koumiss, or currant- 
jelly water be the strongest beverage. 

Salt or smoked meats, sausages, viands recooked, 
pickles, canned tomatoes, and fried dishes generally 
should be eschewed. And yet the diet must not be 
insipid. If well cooked and artistically served the ad- 
missible dishes would be relished by any one with a 
normal and healthy digestion — one not impaired or 
perverted by stimulants. The dietary suitable for a 
healthy child is generally suitable for an adult. 

In extreme cases of irritability of the stomach, if 
milk, or milk and lime-water, koumiss or buttermilk, 
will not answer, the alternatives are barley water, the 
gruels of Graham flour, oat or corn meal, beef tea or 



A Cure f 07' Dysjpejptics. 69 

oj^ster or clam broth. This is administered at regular 
intervals until the stomach evinces a more efficient 
working capacity. 

Any dyspeptic may better undereat than overeat. A 
weak stomach must not be ovei'tasked. Some physi- 
cians go 80 far as to say that total abstinence for a day 
or more, to give the organ a rest, is beneficial. If the 
dyspeptic could make up his mind to stop eating while 
still a little hungry, greater benefits would result than 
from the taking of nostrums. 

It must be borne in mind, however, that while absti- 
nence from food may be resorted to in special cases, 
dyspepsia can be brought on by fasting or by insuffi- 
cient diet. The digestive functions can become weak 
from mere inertia. The tone of the stomach, like the 
tone of the muscles, may be lost by want of exercise. 

Undoubtedly, as a rule, we eat too much. Persons of 
sedentary habits often eat as much as those employed . 
in physical labor. Indeed, it may be noticed that the 
less one has to do, the more attention one gives to tax- 
ing the stomach. Not that one should scorn a good 
healthy appetite — but it is still carried to excess, espe- 
cially by the world of people who lead sedentary lives, 
also by many wealthy families who consider that good 
living and hospitality require too great a variety of 
dishes, and too many courses at meals. 

Dio Lewis, in one of his books, tells a story of a quack 
country doctor who advertised that he could cure any 
person of dyspepsia in a few weeks — price $400. The 
patient was sworn to secrecy as to the mode of cure, be- 
fore being admitted to his sanatarium. His country pa- 
tients expostulated, sometimes, in regard to the price. 
The doctor was obdurate, and as dyspeptics generally 
are hovering on the brink of despair, they invariably, 
sooner or later, came to terms. They were also in- 



60 Dyspepsia. 

variably cured, according to the tradition. Finally the 
doctor died (not of dyspepsia, however), and one of his 
patients, considering his vow no longer obligatory, told 
the great secret. 

A sanatary diet was of course administered ; but the 
chief means of cure consisted simply in the patient 
kneading and beating his liver and stomach. At first 
it was sensitive and painful, but by careful rubbing 
and patting the exercise was daily increased, until the 
patient could pound the refractory organs vigorously 
for an hour or more at a time. 

This may all seem extremely ridiculous. Not so, 
however. It is really the Swedish movement-cure to a 
new tune — a^a^ seul. The soreness of even a boil can 
be reduced and sometimes removed by careful manipu- 
lation. The circulation is thus equalized, giving new 
strength, and carrying off the poison. 



DIARRHCEA, DYSENTERY, AND CHOLERA. 

DiAREHCEA. 

DiAERHCEA results from an effort of nature to throw 
off either an excessive quantity or a poor quality of 
food which cannot be digested. The digestive powers 
in such cases are overtaxed and weakened, and the best 
remedy in the first stage of an acute attack is total ab- 
stinence from food for at least a day. The stomach 
needs rest, and the patient will not suffer from this fast- 
ing, but will often recover by simply retaining a recum- 
bent position and taking nothing but a little cool water, 
01*, at most, rice-water, in small quantities at a time. For 
the first two or three days a little rice gruel will be 
sufficient in the way of food. If milk agrees with one 
perfectly, it can be taken mixed with lime-water (a table- 
spoonful of lime-water to a gobletf ul [half a pint] of milk), 
at first at intervals of one or two hours. After a time, 
as strength is developed, the quantity may be increased 
to, say, a small glassful every three or four hours. Milk 
is generally an excellent diet for this trouble, and, when 
taken, nothing else is required. Koumiss (new or fresh- 
ly made), is also highly recommended for diarrhoea. 
Thickened milk or flour gruel is often given. There 
are some who cannot take milk, and then the alterna- 
tives are barley-water, thin oatmeal gruel (strained), 
beef tea, oyster broth, and sometimes the pulp of raw 
meat. 

The patient should be extremely careful during con- 



62 Diarrhoea^ Dysentery, and Cholera. 

valescence to take only the most digestible of foods — 
for instance, toast dipped in milk, raw Qgg (page 141), 
rice puddings, tea and toast sippets (soaked in tea), the 
preparations from the health foods, etc. 

Dysentery. 

In this disease there are inflammation and ulceration 
of the intestines. Consequently the patient should be 
kept in as tranquil a state as practicable. The food 
should be such as to exert the least stimulating or irri- 
tant action on the mucous membranes. An exclusive 
diet of milk (given as described in the preceding arti- 
cle), is of as great value in dysentery as in diarrhoea. 
Kice-water and rice gruel are also especially recom- 
mended, as well as barley and flour gruel. 

Kaw eggs (page 141), or eggs lightly poached, or eggs 
beaten with milk and sweetened, as described for milk 
punch (without the liquor), are useful in dysentery. 
The pulp of raw meat is sometimes advantageously used 
in cases of diarrhoea and dysentery. The fat is all re- 
moved and the fresh beef is either scraped and divested 
of all fibre, or it can be cut into a pulp with a mincing- 
machine. This fine pulp may be lightly seasoned with 
salt and red pepper and placed between two thin slices 
of stale bread, forming a sandwich ; or it can be formed 
into a thick cake and the outside merely colored by 
placing it in a hot saucepan ; but the inside must not be 
cooked. 

Dr. Hall gives a tablespoonful of scraped raw beef 
every four hours. 

Cold drinks tend to aggravate the pain and colic 
which accompany this disease. 

Cholera. 
During the prevalence of cholera great care must be 



Cholera. 63 

taken to keep digestion in good order. No ice-water, 
alcoholic stimulants, stale or unripe vegetables, pickles, 
or any indigestible food should be taken. 

Dr. Gatchell says : " During the attack no food what- 
ever is required. The incessant thirst from which the 
patient suffers it is hard to gratify, for water taken 
into the stomach aggravates the vomiting; and yet the 
patient should receive all the water that he craves, if 
he can retain it. If this is impossible, much benefit 
may be derived from holding small pieces of ice in the 
mouth until they melt away. Injections of warm milk 
may be used with advantage, if nothing can be taken 
by the stomach. 

'' After the attack no solid food should be taken until 
the stools are consistent and faecal. Great care must 
be observed during convalescence. An attack of indi- 
gestion at this time is often followed by a fatal relapse. 
At first only farinaceous food should be given, and this 
in small quantities, frequently repeated. 

" Rice thoroughly cooked, thickened milk, and the 
like may first be taken. Milk, however, is to be pre- 
ferred to this, and, if the patient can take it, nothing 
else need be sought for." 



FEVERS„ 

De. Beaumont found, bj experimenting with a young 
man who had his stomach opened by a musket shot, and 
afterwards so covered that the action of the gastric juice 
could be witnessed, that but little gastric juice is se- 
creted in febrile diseases. 

The digestive power is very weak. Fevers seem to 
be due to a poison multiplying itself in the blood, which 
runs a regular course, more or less severe according to 
the different constitutions attacked and according to the 
nursing and care received. The body becomes emacia- 
ted. Both the tissue and adipose matter seem to burn 
up. Cooling drinks and food only in liquid form should 
be given, and the latter in small quantities, but at reguhir 
intervals of, say, two or three hours. Solid food given 
even during convalescence will often cause a relapse. 

In some stages of fever there is an intense longing on 
the part of the patient for cool air, cold water, and espe- 
cially for acid drinks, and but little desire for solid food. 
All the pure cold water that is desired should be given. 
Barley and toast water can be given also as drinks. 
Lemonade, orangeade, tamarind and currant-jelly water, 
and buttermilk are generally craved, and, if so, they are 
beneficial. Milk fresh from the cow, or else ice cold, 
as preferred, is recommended by all the authorities for 
fever patients (except in cases of typhoid fever). Kou- 
miss is especially beneficial for fevers. It is always re- 
ceived gratefully, and is the very best diet that can be 



Diet for Fever Patients, 65 

given, as it contains a mild stimulant in addition to its 
digestible food properties. Beef tea and koumiss or 
milk can be given in alternation. Barley, oatmeal, and 
Grabam-flour gruels are mucb used, especially during 
convalescence. It is well not to use stimulants unless 
the patient is alarmingly weak, when an eggnog can be 
given if koumiss is not a sufficient stimulus. 

Peptonized milk and gruel are also recommended 
w^hen fresh milk and gruel do not agree with the pa- 
tient. If milk disagrees, or is thrown up curdled, a 
tablespoonful of lime-water to a cupful of milk will 
generally correct the difficulty. 

The fruits are especially beneficial to fever patients. 
Dr. Oswald says : " Bananas are jpar excellence an anti- 
fever food, being refreshing, palatable, and nutritive, 
as well as exceedingly digestible." 

When the patient has no appetite for food, very little 
or none should be given. Dr. Oswald says: "When 
coolness, sweetness, and fruity fiavors cannot make a 
dish acceptable to the appetite, its (obtrusion would do 
more harm than good, and it is a great mistake to sup- 
pose that even total abstinence could, in such cases, ag- 
gravate the danger of the disease." 

In the critical stage of fevers, milk, koumiss, a light 
gruel, orange juice, and the cold drinks are all that need 
be given. After the crisis has passed, bananas, pears, 
baked apples, raw eggs (page 141), bread jelly, dipped 
toast (made of nutritive flour), or barley gruel could be 
added. All animal food or greasy dishes should be 
avoided until full recovery. 

If the patient's mouth is furred it may be washed 
out with cold water containing a little lemon juice, be- 
fore food is taken. 



66 Femrs. 

Typhoid Fevee. 

This being a long and exhausting disease, the chief 
treatment consists in good nursing and careful diet. In 
this disease the lining membrane of the intestines be- 
comes ulcerated. This complicates the question of diet, 
as nothing should be given which will leave a solid 
residue in the bowels, for fear of irritating the ulcers 
and causing them to perforate through the intestines. 
This cuts off fresh milk, the curd of w^hich forms more 
or less solid masses. Koumiss which is partly digested 
is to be preferred to milk, also peptonized milk gruel 
(see pp. 42, 213, 228). Beef tea is also beneficially given. 

The experience of Sir Wm. Jenner is so extended in 
the treatment of typhoid fevers that I add his remarks 
on "Diet in Typhoid Fever" in the Appendix (page 
223). 

There is rapid waste in this fever, and the patient 
must be fed regularly with very nutritious food. Kou- 
miss, beef tea, the gruels, eggnog, etc., are the chief ar- 
ticles of diet. If the patient becomes unable to swal- 
low, nutrient enemeta must be resorted to. Eubbing 
the body with oil is of great value. 



GOUT AND RHEUMATISM. 

An excess of uric acid in the system, and the conse- 
quent tendency to deposit urate of soda in the fibrous 
tissue around the joints, is the cause of gout. This con- 
dition is superinduced by the use of too much highly 
seasoned animal food and by indulgence in stimulants, 
without taking sufficient physical exercise. In other 
words, more food is taken than can be properly digested 
and assimilated. Laborers, taking a less proportion of 
animal food, and more out-door exercise, are rarely ever 
troubled with gout. Gouty patients and the children of 
gouty parents should promptly adopt habits of strict ab- 
stemiousness. The diet should be chiefly vegetable, and 
physical exercise in the open air is indispensable. The 
regimen recommended for dyspepsia will answer very 
well for gout and rheumatism — rheumatism, like gout, 
being often consequent upon dietetic abuses. Meat 
should be strictly avoided in all cases of gout. It will 
only aggravate the trouble, and the same may be said 
of alcoholic drinks, malt liquors, and especially port 
wine. 

Probably the surest cure for both gout and rheuma- 
tism is to be found in a complete change of the ordi- 
nary dietary in favor of a purely milk diet — or a diet 
composed of milk and the grain preparations, viz. : 
oatmeal porridge, cracked wheat, Graham bread, etc. 
Skimmed milk is generally prescribed, but the patient 
must be ill indeed if not able to digest fresh, new milk. 



G8 Gout and Bheumatism. 

The patient need not fear starvation. He will iind 
himself stronger than ever. Milk contains all the ele- 
ments necessary in food, and it contains these elements 
in the proper proportions to promote digestion and to 
produce healthful assimilation. 

Probably one would not be obliged to continue this 
strict dietary for more than a few weeks, before a more 
varied menu could be trusted. 



BRIGHT'S DISEASE. 

Pavy says : " Physiology teaches us that the kidneys 
perforin an eliminative office. The water which they 
remove in regulating the amount of fluid in the system 
is made the vehicle for carrying off solid matter, consist- 
ing of useless products of the metamorphosis of the food, 
and effete materials, resulting from the disintegration 
of the tissues, which poison and produce death, if al- 
lowed to accumulate in the blood. In Bright's disease 
their eliminative capacity is interfered with. 

" The amount of urinary matter to be discharged is 
largely dependent upon the nature of the food. The 
fats and carbohydrates^' throw no work upon the kid- 
neys. The products of their utilization — carbonic acid 
and water — pass off through another channel. 

" The nitrogenous ingesta, on the other hand, in great 
part undergo metamorphosis, and yield their nitrogen 
to be carried off in combination with a portion of their 
other elements, under the form of urinary products. In 
this way the kidneys become taxed by the food. So a 
vegetable diet should preponderate. 

"It must not be lost sight of, that, on account of the 
escape of albumen, an extra amount of nitrogenous mat- 
ter should be supplied to make up for the loss of albu- 
men. In Bright's disease the kidney is contracted, and 
frequently the escape of albumen is insignificant, and 

* Composed of starcli. 



70 Bright^ s Disease. 

sometimes even it is none. The mere loss of albumen 
is not so mncli to be dreaded as iirsemia." 

A vegetable diet is also recommended by most of the 
authorities (Chambers being an exception), on the sup- 
position that meat throws extra work upon the kidneys. 
In the use of the grain foods such preparations only 
should be selected as contain the full nutriment of tlie 
grain (see pages, 26, 207). 

A diet wholly or partially of milk is much recom- 
mended. Niemeyer says : " In a series of cases which 
have been described by Dr. Schmidt, in his inaugural 
thesis, I have obtained most brilliant results, where all 
other treatment has failed, by putting the patients on 
an almost exclusive diet of milk." 

The ordinary mixed diet should be gradually changed 
in favor of the milk diet, until one exclusively of milk 
is finally reached. This should be kept up for a month 
or so, when improvement is almost certain. 

The patient should drink freely of pure soft water, 
as that carries off much of the impurities of the blood. 
Flax-seed tea is at times beneficial. No alcoholic or 
malt liquors should be allowed in any form. They act 
as a certain poison in kidney affections, and their exces- 
sive use, without doubt, is the provoking cause of a ma- 
jority of such diseases. 



DIABETES. 

The formation of sugar in the urine is what is char- 
acterized as diabetes. The cure of this disease is ahnost 
entirely dietetic, and consists merely of the patient and 
persistent taking of foods which contain no sugar nor 
starch, wdiich latter is converted by natural processes 
into sugar in the system. Fat and albuminoids are 
given in their pLace. Dr. Dobell recommends very 
highly the pancreatic emulsion of fat for diabetics. 

The following is a list of dishes which are allowed 
and prohibited a sufferer from diabetes. The dishes 
are allowed which are not marked prohibited. 

Oysteks and Clams. 
Eaw or cooked without flour mixtures. Oysters can 
be rolled in egg and gluten for frying. 

Soups. 
All kinds without flour, rice, or other starchy sub- 
stances, and without the prohibited vegetables. 

Fisn. 
All kinds, including lobsters, crabs, sardines in oil, etc. 

Meats. 
Of all kinds. Poultry, game, etc. Livers, on theo- 
retical grounds, are prohibited. 

Vegetables Allowed. 
Cauliflow^er, spinach, cabbage, string beans, cucum- 
bers, lettuce, greens, mushrooms, young onions, and 



72 JJiabetes. 

olives. Celery, asparagus, and tomatoes are qnestiona- 
ble. Sour apples cut in quarters, dipped in Ggg and 
rolled in gluten, and fried in hot fat, niake a good sub- 
stitute for potatoes, and may be used moderately. 

Vegetables Peoiiibited. 
Potatoes, beets, turnips, pease, beans, carrots, parsnips, 
rice, sago, tapioca, vermicelli, or others containing sugar 
or starch. 

Milk, Cheese, and Eggs. 
Milk, in some cases ; eggs, cream, butter, buttermilk, 
and all kinds of cheese may be taken freely. Puddings 
and custards should be sweetened with glycerine. 

Fkuits. 
All kinds of tart fruits, peaches and strawberries 
with cream and no sugar. 

Fruits Prohibited. 
All the sweet fruits, as apples, pears, plums, grapes, 
bananas, pineapples, raspberries, blackberries, etc. 

Breads and Pastry. 
Only those made from wheat-gluten flour. The or- 
dinary flour or grains (oatmeal, cornmeal, honjiny, etc.) 
must not be used in any form. 

Beverages. 

Koumiss, coffee with cream and glycerine (no sugar). 
Cereal coffee, very good. Tea objectionable. No liq- 
uors nor wines, except claret, Phine, or other acid varie- 
ties. It is still better to reject all wines, sweet or sour, 
and all liquors, malt or distilled. As much pure water 
as desired may be taken. 

nttts generally. 

Plenty of exercise in the open air, tepid baths, rub- 
bing, and abundant sleep are desirable. 



CONSUMPTION. 

The principal object in treating consumption is to 
bnild, tlio tendency of the disease being to waste. There 
must be, if possible, a renewed and healthy organic 
growth to arrest the formation of tubercular and dis- 
eased matter; consequently all the nourishing food 
which can be digested and assimilated should be taken. 
Plenty of fresh milk, if possible warm from the cow, 
is desirable ; also buttermilk, clabbered milk, and kou- 
miss (see articles on Koumiss). 

Fresh meats, such as beef, mutton, and venison, roast- 
ed or broiled, and cooked rare, should be freely indulged 
in (meats and fresh milk must not be taken at the same 
meals, however). Fowls and fresh fish may be safely 
and profitably taken. Pork, veal, and all foods difii- 
cult and slow of digestion should be avoided. All salt- 
ed meats should be eschewed. Potatoes, carrots, and 
fresh vegetables generally, are wholesome, and even 
necessary, when much meat is taken. Raw and slight- 
ly cooked eggs are full of nutrition and very assimila- 
ble. Care should be taken to discontinue at once any 
article of food that disagrees with the patient, as dis- 
ordered digestion is especially unfortunate in consump- 
tion. 

As much fat as can be digested, whether it be in the 
form of cream, butter, fat of meat, or oil, should be 
taken. Cod-liver oil seems to be one of the great re- 
sources for supplying fat to consumptives, and the 
4 



74 Consumption. 

amount of evidence accumulated in its favor leaves no 
doubt as to its utility. The oil should be quite fresh, 
without color, and should be kept well corked in a cool 
place. If it does not agree in its crude form, there are 
preparations of it in emulsion, combined with pancre- 
atic extract, malt, hjpophosphates, etc., which are con- 
sidered beneficial and should be tried. 

Dr. Gatchell says a dose of a teaspoonful of cod-liver 
oil is sufficient to begin with, and this quantity can be 
increased until a tablespoonful three times a day may 
be safely and profitably taken. It must not be taken 
on an empty stomach, but half an hour after a meal. 

The pancreatic emulsion (see pages 40 and 213), a 
preparation of half-digested beef suet, is well worth a trial. 

Alcoholic stimulants are considered very injurious to 
consumptives by most authorities, and they should not 
be used at all except in hopeless cases, where they may 
serve to give temporary strength in periods of extreme 
weakness or to alleviate acute pain and suffering. The 
effect of alcohol in any but the smallest quantities (as 
found in koumiss, etc.), is to derange and weaken the 
digestive powers, the main reliance foiVcure. 

Among others. Dr. Chambers says : " As to the use 
of alcohol in threatened cases, and in the early stage of 
tubercle, I have no hesitation in pronouncing an opin- 
ion against it." 

As nothing aids digestion, and consequently assimi- 
lation and health, so much as fresh air and sunshine, 
combined with all the physical exercise that can be 
borne without fatigue^ a life in the mountains, where 
the air is dry and bracing, is to be chosen if possible. 
Having spent three summers in the mountains of Colo- 
rado, and having seen and conversed with many con- 
sumptives, I am led to believe that the cures are in 
almost all cases among those who adopt an out -door 



Diet in Consiimjption^ etc. 75 

tent life, and impose upon themselves a certain amount 
of physical work. I say worli, purposely, to designate 
something more than mere exercise. Actual work giv- 
ing good exercise to the arms and chest is especially 
desirable, always remembering to stop short of fatigue. 

The most remarkable cure of which I knew was that 
of a man far gone with consumption (as they avowed), 
and hardly able to walk when he started from Missouri, 
who made the trip across the plains in an ambulance, 
and soon cooked his own and companions' meals. The 
trouble with most invalids is that they haven't "vim" 
enough to be willing to work for health. In the 
Adirondacks of northern New York, among the hem- 
locks " on the Eaquette," a long distance from any 
first-class hotels (which are all very well in their place), 
we have met many consumptives, and in all cases they 
were benefited by the wild-woods life. Some persons 
spend the winter there and take their "constitutional" 
by chopping wood, etc., and report that the winters are 
even more beneficial than the summers. 

Dr. Chambers says: " The use of climate in the treat- 
ment of phthisis (consumption) may be tested by its 
dietetic action ; if it improves the appetite it is doing 
good ; if it injures the appetite it is doing harm." 

SCEOFULA. 

The diet in scrofula should be the same as in con- 
sumption ; a full diet containing plenty of fat, in the 
way of cream, fresh milk, butter, fresh animal food, cod- 
liver oil, etc., and also a full complement of fresh air, 
sunshine, and exercise. The extract of malt is general- 
ly recommended. 

KiCKETS. 

This disease is the result of imperfect nutrition, and 
should be treated like scrofula, by prescribing a ^qm- 



76 Conswrvption. 

erous diet, such as milk, cream, raw beef, and cod-liver 
oil. The extract of malt, which contains phosphates of 
lime and other salts, is especially valuable in the treat- 
ment of this disease. 

DiPIITHEKlA. 

The patient should be well nourished. Give plenty 
of fresh, new milk, or milk mixed with beaten egg 
(milk punch without the liquor). 

In the stage of depression some stimulant is required. 
Let it be eggnog, milk puncli, or raw egg beaten with 
a spoonful of whiskey or brandy, oatmeal caudle, or 
koumiss. 

If the patient can no longer swallow, he should be 
nourished by nutrient enemeta, and by rubbing the 
body, especially the abdomen (under cover, for fear of 
taking cold), several times a day with olive-oil. 

Gasteitis. 

In the height of the attack, when the stomach is much 
inflamed, no food whatever should be taken. Small 
pieces of ice may be held in the mouth and some swal- 
lowed. Fresh koumiss is most excellent. Ice-cream 
flavored with lemon extract (no vanilla) is also valuable. 
If milk agrees, no other food is required. The gruels 
come next, but no meats should be eaten. The meats 
are digested in the stomach, and the starchy foods in 
the large intestine beyond the stomach. 

If nothing can be retained on the stomach, nutrient 
enemeta and rubbing the body with oil must be resort- 
ed to. 



CORPULENCY. 

Fat in the body is created out of the fat of food, and 
also from its starch and saccharine elements. Conse- 
quently, in the treatment of corpulency, it is necessary 
to interdict foods that contain fat, starch, or sugar. 
Sugar, according to Banting, is the most active of fat- 
forming foods. 

Mr. Banting's rules were as follows : 

"For breakfast, at 9 a. m., I take five or six ounces of 
beef, mutton, kidneys, broiled fish, or cold meat of any 
kind except pork and veal ; a large cup of tea or coffee 
without milk or sugar ; a little biscuit, or one ounce of 
dry toast. 

'' For dinner, at 2 p. m., five or six ounces of any kind 
of fish except salmon, herring, or eels ; any meat ex- 
cept pork or veal ; any vegetables except potato, pars- 
nip, beet, turnip, or carrot ; one ounce of dry toast ; 
fruit out of a pudding not sweetened ; any kind of 
poultry or game, and three or four glasses of good 
claret, sherry, or madeira (champagne, port, and beer 
forbidden). 

" For tea, at 6 p. m., two or three ounces of cooked 
fruit, a rusk or two, and a cup of tea without milk or 
sugar. 

*' For supper, at 9 p. m., three or four ounces of meat 
or fish with a glass or two of claret, or sheny and 
water." 

The propriety of the last meal, or of the taking of 



78 Corpulency. 

sherry or madeira (heat-producing wines), or of rusks, 
which are sweet biscuits, is doubtful. 

The following comprise the fat-producing foods, viz. : 
Milk, cream, butter, fats, soups, puddings, pastrj^, su- 
gar, candies, cake, and all sweet dishes, rice, corn-starch, 
and all the farinaceous foods (excepting toasted bread 
or bread crust), potatoes, corn — in fact all edible roots 
and vegetables growing under ground — sweet fruits, 
and spirituous and malt liquors. 

The following are non-fat-producing foods, viz. : 
All the meats, poultry, and game, with the excep- 
tion of the fat portions thereof, oysters and shell-fish ; 
celery, spinach, and all the greens, cabbage, onions, let- 
tuce, squash, tomatoes, and other vegetables containing 
little or no starch, and all acid fruits. 

Dr. Dobell thinks that a certain amount of fat should 
be taken with the food. On this subject, he says : 
" On comparing the following analysis of Mr. Banting's 
diet for getting thin with my tables of normal diets, it 
will be seen that it yields less than half the normal 
quantity of carbon, leaving the deficiency to be ob- 
tained from the fat already stored up in the system, by 
the consumption of which the obesity is removed. The 
fault consists in this reduction of carbon being obtained 
by diminishing the hydrocarbons (fats) of the foods in- 
stead of only cutting off the carbohydrates (sugar and 
starch). It has happened to me to have much to do 
with a great number of persons who have tried Bant- 
ingism, and I do not hesitate to say that Mr. Banting has 
done a great deal more harm than good. Mr. Banting 
candidly told his readers that he was ignorant of the 
physiology of food. 



Diet for the Corpulent. 79 

" The facts in the case are tliese : 1. A certain amount 
of fat in the system is one of the most essential ele- 
ments of health. 2. The quantity required by differ- 
ent individuals to maintain health differs. As much fat 
should be taken as the stomach likes. 3. The effects 
of a deficiency of the quantity actually required are 
most disastrous, the tissues of the body and the brain 
and nerves being at length disintegrated to supply the 
elements of fat which they contain. 4. When there is 
a quantity of fat in the body in excess of that necessary 
to health, it may be lessened with great and (needed) ad- 
vantage, provided it be done slowly and without cutting 
off too much of the fat element of food." 

There is much to be gained by observing certain 
other rules, aside from the dietary. For instance, 
every morning a hasty cold water sponge-bath should 
be taken, and the body should be well rubbed with a 
crash towel. And whenever the body is too warm, the 
cold water sponge -bath may be repeated without a 
general undress. The clothing should not be too warm. 
AH the bodily exercise that can be taken without fatigue 
should be persistently kept up. The vibratory-motion 
machine is most excellent for reducing fat. This ma- 
chine makes two thousand vibrations a minute, and is 
made to accommodate different portions of the body. 
To those who are unable to take other and ordinary ex- 
ercise this machine is especially recommended. Its 
action is to produce a rapid circulation of the blood, 
which takes up and carries off adipose and effete matter. 

With plenty of exercise there will be less need of an 
exacting dietary. 



SOMETHING ABOUT LONGEVITY. 

Before the age of eighty, it is not years that make 
us old. It is want of health, either inherited or brought 
on by our own imprudences. Health is youth. Many 
are younger at sixty than others at twenty. The person 
in health is always young. The invalid is always old. 
To him life is without enjoyment, without energy, and 
without aspiration. And yet, when health is every- 
thing, life itself, how little it is guarded ! how little ap- 
preciated, except when lost ! What a plaything it is ! 
And so our youth is our middle age. Our middle age 
is our old age. When it is time to live and enjoy the 
fruits of experience, study, and labor, we are practically 
dead. Men have lost tlieir vigor at sixty, and women 
have lost their beauty at forty. 

There are some who stop to think. They discuss ill- 
ventilated bedrooms, temperance, corsets, graham bread. 
Dieu nous defend! What disagreeable subjects ! What 
cranks and crazy theorists they are ! These theorists 
attack established habits. Fixed habits are tyrants, and 
their power is irresistible, and so the study of health is 
unpopular. Sickness alone must be considered. 

There is no doubt that the natural period of human 
life is greatly shortened by long and perverse violation 
of natural laws, and that the requirements to guard the 
divine gift are many. 

The total length of life among dumb animals is about 
five times the period between birth and full maturity. 



Age of' Animals, Climate, etc. 81 

A horse is mature at from ^yq to six years. His aver- 
age age is five times as much, and so the rule holds true 
with the other animals. Man is mature at twenty -five. 
On the same principle he should live to be one hundred 
and twenty -five. This is a charming world, and the 
author cannot afford to make the mature age at less 
than twenty-five, especially when man is not considered 
sufiiciently aged to hold most of the important oflSces 
before thirty. 

At least, a lesson can be learned from animal life. 
Animal food is simple. It is without spices. The 
drink of animals is water. Their bedrooms are venti- 
lated. They breathe pure air. Bad colds and dys- 
pepsia are infrequent. They inherit sound constitu- 
tions. 

Climate has much to do with the preservation of 
youth, or rather health. In the extended territory of 
the United States many healthful situations are to be 
found; not, however, where the weather is very change- 
able, nor where the average temperature is very high. 
In some portions of Scotland men often retain their 
full vigor at eight3\ The equable climate of England 
is especially salubrious. 

Reference to a few examples of persons living to a 
great age may be both interesting and profitable. 

Cornaro, a distinguished Italian nobleman, found him- 
self at forty quite broken down by his gross excesses. 
Upon the advice of a physician he resolved to lead a 
new life — to maintain a temperance which should be as 
marked as his former indulgences. At eighty-three he 
wrote a work, " Sure and Certain Method of Attaining 
a Long and Healthy Life." This work was followed 
by three others, written at the ages of eighty-six, ninety- 
one, and ninety-five. His works were translated into 
Latin, French, German, and English. The English trans- 
4* 



82 Something about Longevity. 

lation reached its thirty-ninth edition in 1845. Cornaro 
exclaims : " O blessed temperance, how worthy art thou 
of onr highest esteem ! and how infinitely art thou pref- 
erable to the irregular and disorderly life ! There is 
as wide a difference between you as there is between 
light and darkness, heaven and hell." Again, he says, 
in older age : '' O sacred and most beautiful temper- 
ance ! how greatly am I indebted to thee for rescuing 
me from such fatal delusions, and for bringing me to 
the enjoyment of so many felicities, and which over and 
above these favors conferred on your old man, has so 
strengthened his stomach that he has now a better rel- 
ish for his dry bread than he had formerly for the most 
exquisite dainties! My spirits are not injured by what 
I eat, they are only revived and supported by it." To 
a distinguished archbishop he again wrote: "Is it not a 
charming thing that I am able to tell you that my health 
and strength are in so excellent a state ? that instead of 
diminishing with my age, they seem to increase as I 
grow old? all of my acquaintances are surprised at it, 
and I, who know the cause of this singular happiness, 
do everywhere declare it. ... I confess it was not with- 
out great work that I abandoned my luxurious way of 
life." When Cornaro was ninety-five, he wrote: "I 
find myself as healthy and brisk as if I were but twenty- 
five. Most of your old men have scarce arrived at sixty 
before they find themselves loaded with infirmities. 
They are melancholy, unhealthful, always full of dread- 
ful apprehension of dying." 

There are many famous instances of longevity. 

Count Jean Frederick de Waldeck died in Paris, in 
1875, at the age of one hundred and nine. He had been 
conspicuously before the world for over ninetj^ years. 
He became member and honorary member of the prin- 
cipal learned societies of London and Paris. 



Persons of Great Age. 83 

"The Irish Countess of Desmond fell from a fruit 
tree, broke her thigh, and died in 1609, aged one hun- 
dred and fortj-five years. She danced at court with the 
Duke of Gloucester, afterwards Richard the Third. She 
continued gay and lively in her tastes, dancing even be- 
yond her hundredth birthday. She cut three new sets 
of teeth." 

The Cardinal de Salis, archbishop of Seville, who lived 
to be one hundred and ten, considered his health and 
vigor were owing to his care in diet. 

But examples of longevity are generally found among 
the poorer classes. Lord Bacon, in his " History of Life 
and Death," thus quotes from Pliny: "The year of 
our Lord 76 is memorable ; for in that year there was 
a taxing of the people by Vespasian ; from which it 
appears that in the part of Italy lying between the 
Appenines and the river Po there were found fifty-four 
persons one hundred years old ; fifty-seven, one hundred 
and ten years ; two, one hundred and twenty years ; 
four, one hundred and thirty years; four, one hundred 
and thirty-five years; and three, one hundred and forty 
years each." 

Mr. Eugene Thompson, in an interesting article on 
" Longevity," published in SGrihner''s Magazine^ in 1875, 
writes: "Kow leave sunny Italy and go to inclement 
Norway. Travellers have there remarked the great 
temperance, industry, and morality of the people, and 
their common food is found to be milk, cheese, dried or 
salt fish, no meat, and oat bread, baked in cakes. An 
enumeration of the inhabitants of Aggershaus, in Nor- 
way, in 1763, showed that one hundred and fifty couples 
had been married over eighty years ; consequently the 
greater number were aged one hundred or more ; sev- 
enty couples had been married over ninety years, which 
would place their ages at about one hundred and ten ; 



84 Something about Longevity. 

twelve couples had been married from one hundred to 
one hundred and five years, and another couple one 
hundred and ten years, so tliat this last pair were doubt- 
less one hundred and thirty years old." 

Thomas Parr, buried in Westminster Abbey, died in 
1655, at the age of one hundred and fifty-two. He 
lived in Shropshire, England, a place noted for its long- 
lived people. He was a farmer of extremely abstemious 
habits, his diet being chiefly milk and coarse bread. He 
married his second w^ife when one hundred and twenty- 
two, and worked at the age of one hundred and thirty. 
He was taken to court in his one hundred and fifty- 
second year as a curiosity, by the Earl of Arundel, and 
his life w^as prematurely cut off on account of the change 
from a parsimonious to a plentiful diet. Two of his 
grandsons lived to be each one hundred and twenty- 
seven years old, and a third grandson to be one hun- 
dred and nine ; and Eobert Parr, a great grandson, died 
in Shropshire, in 1757, aged one hundred and twenty- 
four. 

Mr. Ephraim Pratt, of Shutesbury, Mass., who died at 
the age of one hundred and seventeen years, lived chiefly 
on milk, and his son, Michael Pratt, attained the age of 
one hundred and three by similar means. 

A study of the subject shows us that great longevity 
has always been accompanied by abstemiousness in diet ; 
also, that great eaters never live long. 



UTENSILS. 

A Doiible Tin Steamer with double tin cover and 
copper bottom is invaluable among cooking utensils, es- 
pecially for making several dishes suitable for the sick. 
The double tight -fitting cover, perfectly securing the 
heat, cannot be satisfactorily supplied with any impro- 
vised cover. The steamer is also a valuable utensil as 
a hain marie ; i. e., for keeping any cooked dish hot. 




DOUBLE TIN STEAMER. 



For this purpose the steamer containing hot (not boil- 
ing) water is kept at the back of the range. The 
double cover and the hot - water lining protect soup, 
vegetables, sauce, oysters, or any dish placed inside. 
The flavor of a dish is almost perfectly preserved when 
kept in this manner. 



86 Utensils. 

This steamer is especiiiUj useful for making Boston 
brown -bread, Graham pudding, farina pudding, cus- 
tards, etc. 

The Earthen Crock (see page 129) is recommended 
for cooking grains (oat-meal, etc.), apple sauce, the fruit 
compotes, etc. This crock must be heated gradually, 
when there is little danger of breaking. 

A Copper Saucepan. — This is rather an expensive 
utensil, but when once used it will be considered in- 
dispensable. This is on account of being able to cook 
with it materials which scorch readily, viz., articles 




with milk, cracked wheat, or any of the grains, sauces, 
etc., which are improved by simmering, with almost 
no danger of burning. The same materials could be 
cooked in a new porcelain kettle or earthen crock ; 
but iron or tin saucepans — in fact, any kind — do not 
preserve the same even, regular heat as those made 
of copper. As porcelain kettles are not durable, th- 
copper saucepans at last are cheaper. They will lasi 
forever. However, special care should be taken, if 



Meat -juice Press ^ Porcelain DucTc^ etc. 87 

the copper is exposed inside, to have them at once 
retinned. 



Meat -juice Press — for ex- 
tracting the juice from meat. 
The meat — a thick steak cut 
from the round of beef prefer- 
able — is broiled merely enough 
to become well heated through. 
It is then cut into pieces an 
inch or less square, and put into 
the press, .which has been pre- 
viously heated by inserting both 
cup and cover into hot water. 
Juicy meat will yield nearly 
half its weight in liquid. An 

equal quantity of warm water is often added to the 
meat juice, and all should be very lightly seasoned. It 
can be reheated before giving it to the patient, although 
it should not reach the boiling-point, for re<isons ex- 
plained on page 100. 

Porcelain DucTc for administering drinks and fluid 
foods to a patient in a recumbent position. Tlie narrow 
neck prevents a too rapid flow of fluid into the mouth. 





The duck should be warmed before liot foods are 
poured in. 



88 Utensils. 

Glass Tubes come for the same purpose, which are 
also very convenient. 

Porcelain or Glass Spoons, for administering medi- 
cines, can be purchased of any druggist. 

Little Glass Droppers, for measuring medicine by 
drops, are also useful. 



RECEIPTS 
FOR THE SICK AND CONVALESCENT 



DRINKS. 

Distilled Water (Dr. Beard). 
"For diseases of kidneys, etc., this, the purest of 
water, may be obtained by fixing a curved tin tube 
three or four feet long to the spout of a tea-kettle, and 
conducting its free end into a jar which should be 
placed in a basin of cold water. The liquid, as it drops, 
must be kept cool by frequently changing the water in 
which the jar is placed. The steam thus condensed is 
pure water. Distilled water is mawkish to taste, but 
this is easily corrected by pouring it from one vessel to 
another successively for ten or fifteen minutes, so as to 
involve in it a quantity of atmospheric air." 

Lime-water. 

Four over a piece of fresh unslacked lime, about an 
inch square, two quarts of hot water. When it has 
slacked (in a few minutes) stir it thoroughly. Let it 
remain over-night. Bottle carefully all the liquid that 
can be poured off in a perfectly clear state. 

As water will only hold a certain amount of lime in 
solution, the addition of more lime would make the 
water of no greater strength. 

Lime-water (an alkali) is generally added to milk 
for the purpose of neutralizing the effects of an acid 
stomach. 



90 Beceijpts for the Sick and Convalescent. 

About a teaspooiiful to a tablespoonful of lime- 
water to a half-pint of milk is usually prescribed. 

Bakley-water. 

Add to a pint of boiling water half a tablespoonful 
(half an ounce) of Robinson's patent barley, or the 
"health -food" barley, rubbed smooth, with two table- 
spoonfuls of cold water; add also a pinch of salt and a 
tablespoonful of sugar. Let it boil rive minutes. It is 
to be drunk cold. The simple barley-water has a not 
unpleasant taste, and is often prepared without addi- 
tional flavor. Yet zest — i. e.^ the thin yellow cuts of 
the rind of a lemon, or lump sugar rubbed over to ex- 
tract the oil — can be added as a flavoring, or a lemonade 
may be made of barley-water. 

Barley-water may be used temporarily instead of milk 
when the latter disagrees. 

Oatmeal Deink. 
Rub two tablespoonfuls (two ounces) of oatmeal 
smooth by gradually stirring in a teacupful of cold 
water ; add a pinch of salt. Stir this into a quart of 
boiling water and let it boil half an hour. Strain it 
through a fine sieve. 

Tamarind- WATER. 
Stir into a glassful of water a tablespoonful of pre- 
served tamarinds. 

Cinnamon- WATER. 

Add five or six sticks (half an ounce) of cinnamon 
to a pint of boiling water, and boil fifteen minutes. To 
be administered by the tablespoonful. 

Given for hemorrhages. 



Toast-water^ Currant-jelly Water ^ etc. 91 

Toast-water. 
Toast thoroughly thin slices of Graham bread, and 
break them into a bowl. Pour over enough boiling 
water to cover it. When cold, strain off the water and 
sweeten it slightly. Serve it always freshly made. 

CuERANT-jELLY "Water (for fcvcr paticiits). 

A teaspoonful of currant-jelly dissolved in a goblet 
of water, and sweetened to taste, affords a refreshing 
drink for invalids. 

Flaxseed Tea. 

Add half a cupful of flaxseed to four cupfuls, or a 
quart, of boiling water. Let it boil half an hour. Let 
it stand fifteen or twenty minutes near the fire, after it 
has boiled. Of course the longer it stands the thicker 
it becomes. Strain, sweeten to taste, and add a little 
lemon-juice, or not, as preferred. 

This is a useful demulcent drink for coughs, etc. 

Flaxseed and Licorice Tea (for coughs, etc.). 
Pour one pint of boiling water over one ounce of 
flaxseed, not bruised, and two drachms of licorice-root 
bruised, and place the covered vessel near the fire for 
four hours. Strain it through a sieve. 

Herb Teas 
are made by pouring boiling water over one or two 
teaspoonf uls of the herbs ; then, after covering well the 
tin cup or bowl, allowing it to steep for several minutes 
by the side of the fire. The tea is then poured off, and 
sweetened to taste. Camomile tea is used for nervous- 
ness and sleeplessness ; calamus tea, for infant's colic ; 
cinnamon tea, for hemorrhages ; watermelon-seed tea, 
for strangury, etc. 



92 Beeeipts for the Side and Convalescent. 

Wine, Lemon, or Yinegae Whey. 

When a pint of milk is brought just to a boil, pour 
in a gill of sherry wine. Let it again come to a boil. 
When the whey separates, strain and sweeten it to taste, 
using perhaps a teaspoonful of sugar. 

Or the whey can be made in the same manner w^ith 
lemon-juice (free from seeds), using the juice of half a 
lemon instead of the wine, and sweetening to taste ; or 
with vinegar, a tablespoonful being quite enough for 
a pint of milk. 

In an alimentary point of view, whey is ahuost of no 
value. It is advantageous as a drink in febrile diseases, 
and is a good means of administering wine in small 
quantities. 

It may be drunk either cold or w^arm. It possesses 
sudorific and diuretic properties. 

Sugar Syrup (for sweetening drinks). 

For drinks of all kinds, even tea and coffee, sugar 
syrup gives a better flavor than crude sugar. 

To a cupful of white sugar add a quarter of a cupful 
of water, and let it boil one or two minutes. It must 
not be boiled long enough to candy. This syrup is also 
purer and better than most of those purchased, to eat 
with pancakes, etc. 

Simple Beverages from Fruits. 

Currant- jelly water (or any acid jelly — cranberry, 
plum, etc.). 

If the jelly is soft a teaspoonful is dissolved in a 
goblet of fresh cold water, and sweetened to taste. 

If the jelly is hard, it will have to be added to boil- 
ing water to become dissolved. To be drunk cold. 

The fresh fruits are, of course, to be preferred. 



Grape Juice, Ajpple-water, Lemonade, 93 

There is nothing more refreshing than currant- 
water made from fresh currants. This can be prepared 
bj allowing a pint of water to a pint of currants (freed 
from the stems) and a tablespoonful of sugar. Heat 
these slowly in a porcelain or granitized iron kettle until 
it boils, then let it simmer for five minutes. Strain it 
through a cloth, let cool, and sweeten again to taste. It 
can be diluted with water. 

If strawberries, raspberries, black raspberries, or 
blackberries are used, prepare them in the same man- 
ner, excepting that for each quart of berries a pint of 
water with a tablespoonful of sugar should be used. 

For Geape Juice (see page 45). 
Allow one pint of water to three pints of fruit 
(picked from the stems). Let it simmer slowly for five 
minutes, then strain it through flannel or cheese cloth. 
It is drunk cold without sweetening, although there is 
no law against adding a little sugar, if preferred. 

Apple-watek. 

(The same for any of the fruits, viz. : pears, peaches, 
plums, French prunes, figs, raisins, rhubarb, etc.) 

Boil a large, juicy apple (pared, cored, and cut into 
pieces) in a pint of water in a close-covered saucepan, 
until the apple is stewed into a pulp. Strain the liquor, 
pressing all the juice from the pulp. Sweeten to taste. 
Sometimes these fruit -waters are made with rice or 
barley water. To be drunk cold. 

Lemonade. 

Rub loaf sugar over the yellow rind of the lemon to 

extract the oil ; add to the lemon juice (without seeds), 

the sugar to taste. One lemon will make two glassfuls 

of lemonade, the remainder of the ingredients being 



94 Mecevpts for the SicJc and Convalescent. 

water and a little ice chopped fine. Lemonade should 
not be too strong of lemon. Sugar syrup (page 92) 
is always best for sweetening drinks. 

Professionals serve a couple of strawberries on top, 
also a couple of straws. 

Flaxseed Lemonade. 
(Demulcent drink for throat and lung troubles.) 
Pour a pint of boiling water on two tablespoonfuls 

of whole flaxseed, cover and let it steep for three hours. 

When cold, add the juice of a lemon, and sweeten with 

sugar or sugar syrup. 

Milk Punch. 
Sweeten a glass three quarters full of fresh new milk 
to taste, and add one or two tablespoonfuls of brandy or 
whiskey. Grate a little nutmeg over the top. 




A professional milk-punch maker would have two tin 
cups, as in cut, the top of the smaller cup fitting an inch 
below the top of the larger cup. 



Egg and Milk Punchy Eggnog, etc. 95 

The punch is shaken vigorously up and down for two 
or three minutes, when it is poured into a glass with a 
fine froth on top. 

Or the milk may be poured dexterously in a long 
stream from one tumbler to another to produce the 
froth. 

Egg and Milk Punch. 

Stir well a heaping teaspoonful of sugar and the yolk 
of an egg in a goblet, then add a tablespoonful of best 
brandy or whiskey. Fill the glass with fresh new milk 
until it is three quarters full, then stir well into the 
mixture the white of an Qgg beaten to a stiff froth. 

Eggnog. 

Whip well together in a bowl the yolk of an Qgg and 
a heaping teaspoonful of sugar, then stir in a table- 
spoonful of best brandy or whiskey. Now stir in care- 
fully the white of the egg beaten to a stiff froth, and a 
half pint (one cupful) of sweet cream whipped also to a 
froth. The Ggg froth and the whipped cream should 
be quite ready before the other ingredients are mixed 
together. 

Tom and Jerky. 

Beat an egg (yolk and white) with a heaping tea- 
spoonful of sugar, until it is very light — quite a froth — 
then mix in one or two tablespoonfuls of rum and 
three fourths of a cupful of boiling water. Turn this 
back and forth in two hot pitchers to mix well, then 
pour it into a hot glass. Grate a little nutmeg over the 
top and serve immediately. 

Egg Cordial. (Lady St. Clair in "Dainty Dishes.") 
" One tablespoonful of cream ; the white of a very 
fresh egg\ one tablespoonful of brandy. First whip 
the egg nearly to a frotli, then add the cream and whip 



96 Becevpts for the Sick and Convalescent. 

both together, add the brandy by degrees and mix wclL 
Do not let it stand after it is made. This is very nour- 
ishing, and will stay on the stomach when nothing else 
will. The receipt was given me by the late Professor 
Miller of Edinburgh." 

The author would suggest the addition of a tea- 
spoonful of sugar. 

A Glass of Ceeam. 
Of all the beverages there is nothing more whole- 
some for a convalescent than a glass of fresh, sweet 
cream. It is a hearty meal in itself with the addition 
of a cold roll, or a health -food cracker biscuit, and 
perhaps a baked apple. This is preferable to a repast 
with tea or coffee. A glass of cream served at a Vienna 
cafe is partly whipped. 

Tea. 

Two things are necessary to insure good tea : first the 
water should be at the boiling-point, actually bubbling 
(water simply hot or steaming not answering the pur- 
pose), and, second, that the tea should be served freshly 
made. Tea should never be boiled, nor left over three 
minutes after it is made, before drinking. 

Scald out well a little Chinese earthenware teapot, 
then throw into it two teaspoonfuls (not heaping) of 
good black tea (English breakfast especially recom- 
mended). Place over the fire some clear, fresh water, 
and when it begins to boil well, pour two cupfuls into 
our little teapot. Water at the first loiling is much 
better than when boiled for some time. 

Let the teapot then stand at the side of the fire 
(without boiling) a minute. 

ISTow serve the teapot. Do not attempt to pour 
the tea into the cup and carry it some distance and ex- 



Coffee. 97 

pect it to be au jpoint, but place the teapot on the 
brightest of salvers. On this have a plate and the 
whitest of napkins, and on this again a thin, dainty cup 
and saucer with a bright teaspoon at the side. The 
little teapot takes another corner, with a little pitcher 
of hot water. A little fancy dish, a leaf perhaps, con- 
tains three or four lumps of loaf sugar, and a second 
miniature pitcher a few spoonfuls of cream. Connois- 
seurs do not drink tea with cream or milk however. 
On anotlier plate is the milk toast or whatever is de- 
cided upon for the supper. 

Placing this salver on a little table by the side of the 
invalid's bed or chair, the invalid can see the tea poured 
out steaming hot, while catching its pleasant aroma. 
(See further remarks about tea, page 1.) 

Coffee. 

I once watched a cordon hleu making coffee in the 
common coffee-pot. For several reasons I believe there 
is no better method of making it than his. 

We will not take his proportions, for the French al- 
ways have coffee too strong — at least too strong for our 
invalid, or any one who does not care to become one. 
Allow two tablespoonfuls of coffee to a pint of water. 
Put the coffee in the coffee-pot, and pour over it about a 
third of a pint of boiling, bubbling water; cover the 
coffee-pot and let it stand until just about to boil again, 
when pour in the second third ; and again, when this is 
about to boil, pour in the remainder, letting it stand 
until it reaches the same point, w^hen set it back of the 
range for a few moments to settle. Serve immediately. 

Of course proper attention must previously have 
been given to the even and proper roasting of the cof- 
fee, remembering that one burned berry can quite ruin 
the flavor of the whole. Again, the coffee is much bet- 



98 liecevpts for the Sick and Convalescent. 

ter when the berries have been fresh roasted. If they 
are not fresh roasted, place them a few minutes in the 
oven before grinding, and it will serve to freshen them 
and bring out the oil. It is a good idea when coffee is 
fresh-roasted and still liot to mix in a little of the white 
of ^gg. It will form a very thin coating around the 
berries, serving to keep them fresh. They should not 
be ground until ready for use. The ^gg then serves to 
clear the coffee. A mixture of two thirds Java coffee 
and one third of Mocha insures the best coffee. 

The flavor of the coffee will be altogether different 
if a tablespoonful of sweet, rich cream can be served 
with it, instead of milk or boiled milk. If cream is out 
of the question, use hot boiled milk, diluting the coffee 
always with the hot milk instead of hot water. In fact, 
coffee made with milk instead of Avater is most excel- 
lent. Sweeten the coffee with lump sugar. The 
Vienna coffee is served with one or two tablespoonfuls 
of whipped cream on top the coffee in the cup. 

Chocolate. 

For invalids the homoeopathic preparation of choco- 
late called " alkathrepta " is the most wholesome, for the 
reason that it contains no vanilla — and vanilla is a poi- 
son for an invalid. The homoeopathic books all say 
that it is a most unwholesome if not poisonous flavor- 
ing for any one. Indeed, vanilla is used medicinally, 
sometimes. 

For one coffee -cupful of chocolate (half- pint cup) 
allow^ one ounce or one and a quarter tablespoonfuls of 
chocolate and one and a quarter cupf uls of milk. Scrape 
the chocolate into a tin cup and mix in by degrees the 
quarter cupful of cold milk ; stir it carefully over the 
fire (taking care that it does not burn) until it is a per- 
fectly smooth paste. 



Seltzer-water and Milk. 99 

When the remaining cupful of milk is boiling, 
sweeten it with two lumps of loaf sugar, and stir in the 
chocolate paste, adding a little of the boiling milk to it 
at first to dilute it evenly. Let it boil a minute. Stir 
it into a froth with an egg-whisk, and serve immediately. 

A tablespoonful of whipped cream on top of the 
chocolate in the cup is a pleasing addition. 

Seltzer-water and Milk. 

An equal quantity of milk and seltzer -water mixed 
is considered a desirable beverage, when some nourish- 
ment and a slight aperient are required. 

A friend was suffering with a light attack of pneu- 
monia in New York, and a distinguished physician (Dr. 
Loomis) prescribed a glassful of half milk and half 
seltzer- water to be taken every four hours. The alter- 
nate two hours a half glassful of vichy was to be taken. 
This, with a mustard plaster and perfect rest, proved 
all-sufficient for a rapid recovery. 



BEEF TEAS AND BROTHS. 

Beef Tea. 

The old mode of making beef tea by boiling meat 
and water several hours, or even boiling it at all, was a 
mistaken one. An extract was thus obtained devoid of 
its chief nutritive element, albumen, and containing 
little more than stimulating qualities. 

Dr. Holland, in his admirable little work on " Diet 
for tlie Sick," says : 

"The albuminoid or flesh-forming principle of meats 
is coagulated by hot water, and either remains in the 
meat or is skimmed off the extract (as scum). The 
water has taken up the mineral salts and the flavoring 
principle, but is devoid of the nutriment commonly sup- 
posed to be dissolved by it. Soups and beef tea are 
stimulating in their effect." 

One of our army surgeons prepared a receipt which 
was issued for the use of the army by a Circular Order. 
The receipt is as follows : 

Beef Extract (see next receipt). 

Put a third of a pound of fresh beef, finely minced, 
in fourteen ounces of cold, soft water, to which four or 
five drops of muriatic acid and a little salt (from ten to 
eighteen grains) have been added. 

After digesting for an hour to an hour and a quarter, 
strain it through a sieve, and wash the residue with five 
ounces of cold water, pressing it, to remove all soluble 



matter. The liquor will contain the whole of the solu- 
ble confetituents of the meat (albumen, creatine, etc.), 
and it may be drunk cold or slightly warmed. The 
temperature should not be raised above 100° Fahr., as at 
the temperature of 113° Fahr. a considerable portion of 
the albumen, a very important constituent, will be co- 
agulated. 

Liebig's Receipt fok Beef Tea 
is nearly the same, viz. : — Ingredients : Half a pound of 
finely minced raw beef (chicken or any meat may be 
similarly used), one pint of pure water, four drops of 
muriatic acid, about one half a saltspoonful of salt. 
Dilute the acid and salt well in three fourths of a pint 
of the water, then mix well with the meat. Let it 
stand an hour ; strain through a hair sieve, and rinse 
the residue with the extra quarter of a pint of water. 

It may be administered in a red wineglass if the 
patient should become prejudiced against it on account 
of its red color. 

Baron Liebig adds : " The liquid thus obtained con- 
tains the juice of the meat with the albumen in an un- 
coagulated state, and syntonine, or muscle fibrine, which 
has been dissolved by the agency of the acid." 

It seems strange that Baron Liebig, with so much 
knowledge of the subject, should have made his " beef 
extract"* so deficient in nutrient qualities as to be 
condemned by many eminent physicians. Dr. Dobell 
says : " It is important to bear in mind that Liebig's 
extract of meat and other similar preparations con- 
tain very little, if any, nourishment properly so called. 
. . . Their principal virtues belong to the class of stim- 
ulants. . . . When mixed with water they are excellent 
menstrua in which to administer nutritive materials, 

* Another preparation largely sold in market. 



102 ;'•, ; :,'; \Bcef 'TpM and .Broths. 

snch as eggs, oatmeal, etc. ; but without siicli additions 
they are incapable of sustaining life for any length of 
time. Unless these facts are borne in mind a patient 
may easily be starved unintentionally." 

Dobell further says : " Yalentine's meat juice is a 
most useful nutrient for the sick-room. It contains al- 
bumen in solution, and hence must not be made hot. 
A teaspoonful in a wineglassful of water or wine is a 
refreshing change from the usual list of w^arm foods, 
and is very convenient for sudden use in the sick- 
room." 

The Valentine extract will become acid and spoiled 
if kept too long. 

Beef Juice. 

Choose a thick slice of fresh, juicy beef without fat. 
A steak cut from the round (leg) contains the most 
juice. Broil it for only a minute, or long enough to 
merely heat it throughout ; cut it in many places, and 
press out all the juice (with the aid of a beef-juice press 
or a lemon-squeezer) into a warm bow^l. The bowl may 
be placed in a basin of hot water to keep warm. If no 
meat-squeezer is at hand, the meat may be pressed be- 
tween two hot saucers, or wath a strong hand. Be 
careful to salt the juice very slightly. Kemove the 
globules of fat. It may be served by the teaspoonful 
as ordinary beef tea, or, if solid food can be taken, the 
juice may be poured on some dry, fresh-made toast. 

Beef Tea for Tkavelling. 
Chop two pounds of fresh, juicy beef, cut from the 
round, very fine ; place it in a bowl, with one ounce of 
gelatine and a pint of cold w^ater, and let it soak for 
two hours, occasionally squeezing the juice from the 
meat -pulp with the hand. At the end of the two 
hours pass all the juice through a fine sieve, again 



Beef Tea for Convalescents. 103 

squeezing all the juice possible from the meat -pulp. 
Season it judiciously with salt and a little pepper. 
Bring this juice merely to the boiling-point, and pour it 
into an hermetically sealed glass jar (previously heated 
in hot water), and seal it immediately. 

When wanted for use dissolve two or three teaspoon- 
fuls of the jelly in half a cupful of boiling water, and 
give it to the patient hot. 

A Beef Tea for Convalescents. 
Soak three quarters of a pound of small-cut pieces 
of fresh, bright-red, lean steak (cut from the round) in 
a pint of cold rainwater for an hour, squeezing the beef 
occasionally with the hand, then place it (beef and 
water) on the fire. Let it come slowly to a boil, and 
then let it simmer for ten minutes. Pour off the tea 
and remove the fat ; salt it slightly, and, if allowable, 
add the slightest bit of red pepper ; add also a spoonful 
of fresh and well - cooked rice or barley, or dried and 
toasted dice of bread, or wafer crackers, or a poached 
e^g. Serve while still fresh-made and hot. 

To Make the Bread Dice, or Croutons. 

Cut stale bread into dice about half an inch square, 
and put them in the open oven, or some place where 
they will become thoroughly dry ; then toast them over 
the fire, or brown them in a hot oven, to a nice yellow 
color on all sides ; place them in a dish at one side of 
the range, that they may remain warm until the moment 
of serving. By keeping them warm they will continue 
crisp until, put into the beef -tea. These bread dice are 
nice in any soup. Bread dice for soups are generally 
fried to a light brown in a little butter, but these would 
not be recommended for an invalid. 

Or, slices of bread may be cut with little fancy 



104 Beef Teas and Broths. 

shaped cutters into pretty figures before drying and 
toasting, and then they may be digniiied with the name 
of croutons. For convalescents it would not be amiss 
to butter the dice or croutons slightly on one side. 

Chicken Broth. 

Cut up half a chicken (one and a half pounds) in 
rather small pieces, and break the bones. Do not wash 
it if you would save the whole juice. Put it in the clean- 
est of saucepans w4th three pints of clear cold water 
and a tablespoon ful of rice. Bring it slowly to a boil 
and let it simmer for two hours, closely covered. Half 
an hour before it is done throw in a little sprig of pars- 
ley. AYhen done, pass the broth through a sieve into a 
hot bowl, pressing the rice through with a spoon. Let 
it stand a moment, and then skim off the fat. Salt it 
with care, also add a few specks of red pepper. I hard- 
ly dare mention the red pepper, as the broth is good 
enough without it, and, if any is used, a cook is sure to 
put in too much. Or, instead of rice, granulated barley 
or wheat may be used for a thickening. 

The broth may be served with some dainty crackers, 
or wafers (page 122), on a separate dish, to be broken 
into the broth when served ; or, for a change, the rice 
may be boiled separately and a tablespoonful of the 
whole grains added after the broth is in the bowl. 

Mutton Beoth. 
Cut up two pounds of the scrag end of the neck of 
mutton and place it in the soup-kettle with two quarts 
of cold water. Bring it slowly to a boil, and then 
place it on the range to simmer for two hours. Pass 
it through the sieve; season it carefully with salt and 
the slightest quantity of pepper (red pepper is always 
preferable if used carefully). If wanted immediately, 



Beef Broth. 105 

Bkim off the fat. It is better to set it away, allowing 
the fat to harden on top, when it can be easily removed. 
When wanted to serve, heat it to the boiling-point; 
pour jnst enough in a thin sonp-bowl and add a table- 
spoonful of fresh, well-cooked rice. 

The pearled barley of the Health-food Company is a 
valuable thickening for mutton broth. Half to three 
quarters of an hour before the broth is done a table- 
spoonful (two ounces) of the barley may be added to 
the soup. When the soup is strained the barley grains 
may carefully be taken out with a spoon and returned 
afterwards, or the barley may be cooked in other water. 
For a change, bread dice, or croutons^ as explained on 
page 103, may be added to the broth. 

Cleae Beef Bkoth with Tapioca ok Sago. 
Take four pounds of lean beef and bone (two pounds 
each) ; cut up the meat and break the bone ; cover it 
with three quarts of clear, cold water; bring it slowly 
to a boil, and let it simmer for four hours. The last 
hour add a sprig of parsley, two or three slices of 
onion (previously browned in a platter with a little 
butter), and a slice of carrot. When done, pour the 
broth through the sieve. There should be about a pint 
and a half of broth remaining. Remove the parti- 
cles of fat. Return this strained broth to a perfectly 
clean kettle; add the white of an ^g^ (beaten to a thin 
froth) and stir it well into the broth for the purpose 
of clearing it ; bring it all to a good boil, when place 
the kettle one side for a few minutes. Pass the broth 
through the jelly bag. If the first dripping is not quite 
clear, return it to the bag. Season the broth carefully 
with salt and red pepper, remembering that it only 
takes the slightest quantity of the latter; add also a 
tablespoonf ul of either tapioca or sago, prepared as fol- 



106 Beef Teas and Broths. 

lows : Soak two teaspoonfuls of sago or tapioca an hour 
in clear, cold water, then pour off the water and stir it 
into a pint of boiling water. Let it boil slowly for half 
an hour, pour off the water and let it steam a moment, 
and then it is ready to be added to the broth. 

Or, the broth can be made one day and, when strained, 
set aside until the next day. The hardened fat at the 
top and the settlings at the bottom of the jelly can be 
easily removed. This broth will be tolerably clear, 
though not so much so as when cleared with the white 
of an egg. Sometimes a slice of lemon (without seeds) 
is thrown in the soup bowl just as the broth is about 
to be served. 

Beef Bkoth with a Poached Egg. 
Make the broth as in the preceding receipt, and, in- 
stead of tapioca, add to the bowl when ready to serve a 
well-trimmed and carefully poached Qgg. 




GRUELS. 

I WISH to call special attention to the barley gruel 
made of Robinson's patent barley flour (page 29), as 
explained in the following receipt. The gruel is deli- 
cate and delicious in flavor and is most invaluable for 
nearly all conditions of sickness. I have tried tlie same 
receipt with several American preparations of barley 
which were good, but not to be compared with the one 
first mentioned. It would be well for our own manu- 
facturers not to be outdone in supplying an article so 
generally useful. 

Barley Geuel. 

Wet gradually (stirring it smooth) half an ounce, or 
one tablespoonful, of Robinson's patent barley flour, 
with half a gill of cold water ; stir well into it one gill 
of boiling water; add a small pinch of salt. Let it 
cook over the fire for five minutes, stirring it slowly 
part of the time, then add half a gill of hot milk. Let 
it again come just to a boil, then take it off the fire, stir 
in a teaspoonf ul of sugar, and it is ready to serve. Gruels 
are always better when served quite fresh-made and hot. 



108 Gruels, 

This receipt will make a coffee-cupful of gruel. One 
gill contains nine tablespoonfuls of liquid. Or, for a 
change, a most delicious blanc-mange is made by adding 
to the preceding receipt, when just cooked, the well- 
beaten whites of two eggs ; stir them in smoothly and 
let the mixture remain a minute over the fire (stirring 
it meanwhile) to set the Q,gg^ though not allowing it to 
boil. This can be moulded and eaten cold with a little 
cream poured over, yet it is better when served hot. 

Geaham-flour Gruel. 

Ingredients: Two tablespoonfuls (one and a quar- 
ter ounces), of Graham flour, or, what is much bet- 
ter, the granulated wheat of the "Health-food Com- 
pany ; " one pint and a half of water ; a saltspoonful 
of salt (not heaping). Mix the flour with a quarter of a 
pint of cold water, pouring in only two or three table- 
spoonfuls at first, and rubbing it well to keep from 
lumphig, then gradually adding the rest ; mix in also 
the salt ; stir in the extra one pint and a quarter of 
water, when it (the water) is boiling. 

Boil it slowly for an hour, or until reduced one half. 

Oatmeal Gruel (No. 1). 

Ingredients : One heaping tablespoonful (one ounce), 
of oatmeal ; one pint and two tablespoonfuls of water ; 
half a saltspoonful of salt. 

Rub the oatmeal smooth with two tablespoonfuls of 
cold water. Add the salt to the pint of water in the 
saucepan, and, when it 1)0118^ stir in the oatmeal paste. 
Let it boil slowly for half an hour w^ith the saucepan 
partly covered. 

If this gruel be made for an infant it should be 
passed through a sieve. 

The gruel above described is that whicli is most fre- 



Oatmeal Gruels^ Oatmeal Caudle^ etc. 109 

quentlj used. A stronger diet is made by adding one 
or two tablespoonfuls of cream as soon as the gruel is 
cooked. The gruel when cooked will be reduced to 
half a pint. 

When a nourishing and stimulating diet is required, 
the gruel can be made into what is called an '^ oatmeal 
caudle" (see below). 

Oatmeal Gruel (JSTo. 2). — (Used in feverish conditions.) 
This preparation of oatmeal is given by the United 
States Dispensatory as follows : " Put one ounce, or a 
heaping tablespoonful of oatmeal, rubbed smooth in a 
little water, into three pints of boiling water, and boil 
it until reduced to two pints ; then strain it, and let it 
cool and settle. When it is quite cold, pour the clear 
gruel from the sediment, add the juice of a lemon, and 
sugar to taste. If it is desired to have it warm, heat it 
before adding the lemon juice. 

Oatmeal Caudle. 
Take the half-pint of simple gruel (as was described 
in oatmeal gruel No. 1, and as soon as it has slightly 
cooled stir in a teaspoonful of sugar and the beaten 
yolk of an ^g^\ return the gruel to the fire for half 
a minute to cook and set the o^gg^ stirring and not 
allowing it to boil. Take it again from the fire and 
add a tablespoonful of good brandy, Jamaica rum, 
port, or sherry wine. 

Flour Gruel, or Thickened Milk (No. 1). 
Ingredients: One heaping tablespoonful of flour, 
(one ounce) ; one pint and three tablespoonfuls of 
milk; salt. Hub the flour smooth with three table- 
spoonfuls of cold milk, then stir it into a pint of boil- 
ing milk ; add half a saltspoonful of salt, and let it sim- 



110 Gruels. 

mer for five minutes. It may be flavored and sweet- 
ened by adding, when cooked, a teaspoonful of sugar 
and a grating of nutmeg, or a dozen raisins may be 
boiled in the milk, and either taken out afterwards or 
left in for appearance sake, though they are not to be 
eaten. 

Flour Gkuel (]S"o. 2). 
When the flour gruel No. 1 is just done take it from 
the fire, let it cool half a minute, then stir in the yolk of 
an Qgg, beaten well with two teaspoonfuls of sugar; 
return it to the fire (without allowing it to boil), and 
stir it until quite hot again (a half-minute), then mix 
in smoothly the white of the egg beaten to a stiff froth. 
This gruel is very nice, for a change, with the beaten 
white of the egg added without the yolk. 

Flouk Gruel, of Prepared Flour (No. 3). 

To prepare the flour, knead any quantity of flour 
with water into a ball, and tie the whole firmly in a 
linen cloth; put it into an iron saucepan and cover it 
with boiling water. Let it boil slowly (replenishing 
with boiling water when necessary) for twelve hours. 
Place it before the fire to dry, and afterwards, when 
removing the cloth, separate a thick skin or rind which 
lias formed, and again dry the ball. 

lieceipt : Bring a pint of milk with half a saltspoon- 
ful of salt to a boil, and then stir in one tablespoonful 
(one ounce) of the prepared flour, previously rubbed 
smooth with three tablespoonfuls of cold milk; cook 
about three minutes. 

An excellent diet for summer complaint. 

EicE Gruel. 
Ingredients: One well -filled tablespoonful (one 
ounce) of ground rice ; one pint and three tablespoon- 



Rice, Farina, Cornmeal Gruels, and Panada. Ill 

fills of milk or water ; a pinch of salt. Mix and cook 
it the same as simple oatmeal gruel, excepting that you 
boil the rice gruel fifteen minutes. 

This gruel is principally used for bowel complaints. 
If the doctor prescribe port wine or brandy, this gruel 
can be made with a teaspoonful of sugar and a table- 
spoonful of the wine or liquor added. 

Fakina Gruel. 

Rub a heaping tablespoonfal of farina smooth with 
three tablespoonfuls of milk, and add it to a pint of 
boiling water ; add also a pinch of salt. Let it boil 
twenty minutes, stirring occasionally. When done, add 
two gills of good, sweet cream. This gruel can also be 
changed as was described for flour gruel — with sugar 
and Q^g added. 

Cornmeal Gruel. 

Ingredients: One pint of water; a little salt; six 
tablespoonfuls of milk; one tablespoonfal (one ounce) 
of cornmeal flour. Mix the cornmeal smooth by adding 
gradually the milk ; add also the salt, and stir it into 
a pint of boiling water. After it begins to boil let it 
simmer (uncovered) for forty minutes. 

Panada. 
Sprinkle a little salt or sugar between two large Bos- 
ton soda or Graham crackers, or hard pilot biscuit ; put 
them into a bowl ; pour over just enough boiling water 
to soak them well ; put the bowl into a vessel of boil- 
ing water, and let it remain fifteen or twenty minutes, 
until the crackers are quite clear and like a jelly, but 
not broken. Then lift them carefully, without break- 
ing, into a hot saucer. Sprinkle on more sugar or salt if 
desired ; a few spoonfuls of sweet, thick cream poured 
over is a good addition for a change. Never make 



112 Panada. 

more than enougli for a patient at one time, as it is 
very palatable when freshly made, and quite insipid if 
served cold. 

Toasted bread cut into thin, even slices may be 
served in the same way. This is also a good baby-diet 
for a child over seven or eight months old. 

A panada gruel may be made by adding to a cupful 
of boiling water, in a saucepan, a half-cupful of stale 
bread crumbs (without the crust) and a pinch of salt. 
Let it simmer ^\q or ten minutes, or until it is, when 
stirred, of the consistency of gruel. It can be sweet- 
ened or not. A tablespoonfnl of split raisins, boiled 
with the gruel, makes a pleasant flavor. Sprinkle su- 
gar over the top when served. The raisins should not 
be eaten. If panada is made of the new-process flour, 
it is as nourishing as any of the gruels. 



BREADS 
AND OTHER GRAIN PREPARATIONS. 

Bread. 

It is very important to have wholesome, sweet, and 
well-made bread, especially for an invalid. The new- 
process flours (see page 29) are indispensable for mak- 
ing the most nutritious white bread. 

As for yeast, the Fleischman's yeast insures always 
sweet bread. Receipts come with these yeast cakes. 
The brewers' yeast is most excellent. A gill of this 
yeast to three and a half pounds of flour is the proper 
proportion. In the country the home-made yeast is 
generally used. Yet this is unreliable unless made by 
an expert. 

I will give one receipt for bread which can be made 
of a dry yeast, that can be obtained in the country. It 
is made of the "National Yeast," manufactured at 
Seneca Falls, N. Y. " On the Raquette," where moist 
yeast never has ventured, and we hope never will, we 
had the very best and most wholesome of bread made 
of this yeast. The yeast packages are dated, so that 
only those quite fresh need be purchased. 

If baking-powder is used for any of the small bread 
receipts, the Horsford's baking-powder is considered 
quite reliable and hygienic. 



114 Breads and other Grain Preparations. 

Hatiiokn's Adijrondack Eeead. 

This bread can be made in one day, or the sponge 
may be made at night and finished in the morning. If 
made in one day the sponge must be given a warmer 
temperature, which will cause it to rise more quickly. 

To be quite explicit, when setting the sponge at night 
for four loaves of bread, place in a large bread-pan 
three heaping quarts of sifted flour and a teaspoonful 
of salt. Into this mix one and a quarter cakes of 
National Yeast (see preceding article) which has been 
previously soaked for a few minutes, softened and mixed 
in two quarts of lukewarm water, or water at about the 
temperature of 96° Fahr. Mix this all well together 
with a spoon, and it will make a sponge a little thicker 
than is necessary for pancake batter. Cover this with 
a clean cloth, several times folded, and set it to rise 
over-night, selecting a situation where as even a tem- 
perature as possible, of about 70° Fahr., can be obtained. 
In the morning, at about seven or eight o'clock, the 
sponge will be found to be in bubbles, not increased, 
however, more than a third of its original size. At this 
time add enough more flour to make it a dough solid 
enough to handle, though not too stiff. Knead it for 
about ten minutes, not more, as the grain of bread does 
not want to be too fine. Then cover it again in the pan 
and set it at the side of the fire (temp, about 90°) until 
it has increased about double or more in size. This will 
require about five hours. ISTow separate it into loaves, 
knead them separately two or three minutes, and place 
them in the baking-pans. Cover and set them to rise 
for the third time in the same warm place. This will 
require about an hour longer, when they are ready to 
bake in a rather quick oven. 

If it be desirable to make the bread in one day, the 



Graham Bread. 115 

sponge can be set early in the morning, say seven o'clock, 
and, placing it in a temperature of about 90°, it will be 
ready for the second handling in about five or six hours. 
At one o'clock it can be kneaded as before described, 
at ^\Q o'clock it can be made into loaves, and at six or 
six and a half o'clock it will be ready for baking. 

A good Graham bread can be made by preparing 
the sponge with white flour and mixing afterwards with 
the Graham flour. 

Graham Bread (Quogue Receipt). 

Ingredients: one cupful light bread sponge (in the 
morning) ; one cupful lukewarm water ; one large table- 
spoonful molasses ; one large spoonful of lard or nice 
drippings ; a small half teaspoonf ul soda ; Graham flour ; 
a little salt. 

Dissolve the soda in the water and pour it and the 
molasses, lard (soft), and salt into the sponge. Mix it 
together, then stir in as much Graham flour as you con- 
veniently can with a spoon, making a stiff batter. Put 
immediately into a rectangular pan (buttered) about ten 
inches long, six inches wide, and four inches high. Set 
it in a warm place, and when w^ell raised (or when this 
sized pan is even full) bake it immediately for an hour. 

Graham Bread (Health-food Co.). 
Ingredients : one cupful bread sponge ; one half cup- 
ful warm water ; two cupf uls Graham flour, or as the 
Health-food Company calls it, granulated wheat; one 
cupful cornmeal, or, without the Indian meal, three 
cupf uls of granulated wheat ; lard the size of an ^gg ; 
one half teaspoonf ul salt; one tablespoonful sugar. 
The ingredients are mixed together as directed in the 
preceding receipt. 



116 Breads and other Grain Preparations. 

Boston Bkown Bread. 

Ingredients: two cupfuls (one pint) milk; two cup- 
f uls cornrneal ; one cupful rje meal, or, if more con- 
venient, Graham flour ; a scant half-cupful New Or- 
leans molasses; one scant teaspoonful soda; one tea- 
spoonful salt; steam four hours; bake twenty minutes. 

Mix the cornrneal, rye flour, and salt well together ; 
dissolve the soda evenly first with a little of the milk, 
then with the whole pint. Make a little well in the 
flour, in which pour in the molasses, then the mixed 
milk and soda. Stir all well together free from lumps, 
and pour it quickly into a double kettle (see page 85), 
buttered, in which the water is already boiling. Boil it 
four hours, never allowing the water to stop boiling ; 
then take out the bread and bake it for twenty minutes 
in the oven. 

If no double kettle be at hand, pour the bread paste 
into a long tin pail, which cover, and set in an iron pot 
of boiling water, the water reaching about three fourths 
to the top of the pail. Cover also the iron pot, confin- 
ing the steam as much as possible. As the water boils 
down replenish it with boiling water. 

A SLICE OF Boston Bbown Bread covered with cream 
makes a good breakfast for an invalid. A little sugar 
may or may not be sprinkled over. 

Toast. 
Cooks generally show great carelessness and igno- 
ance in making toast. The bread slices are generally 
cut too thick, the crust is not taken off, and in the 
hurry of preparation the slices are unevenly colored, 
and the centre is often a mass of hot dough. Instead 
of a most digestible article of diet, as it should be if 



properly made, it becomes the most unwholesome of 
breads. 

The slices should be cut quite thin and even, the 
shapes made regular by cutting off the crust and uneven 
sides. The scraps of bread left may be dried and 
saved in a can for bread-crumbing, i. e., they are not 
to be wasted. The slices can be placed on a tin platter 
and dried for a little time in the open oven, or at the 
top of the range, when they will toast very quickly. 
The operation is not so quick without this drying 
process, for then the slices must be placed in the toaster 
and simply turned from one side to the other without 
coloring until the bread is thoroughly dried through, 
then it should receive a deep yellow color quite even 
and artistic. If allowed to color at first it will be dif- 
ficult to dry the interior. 

If the toast is to be served dry it should be served 
immediately on a warm plate ; indeed, the bread should 
not be toasted until the person for whom it is intended 
is ready to eat it. If the toast is made to serve with a 
poached egg, a bird, or a vegetable, a little boiling wa- 
ter should be poured in the bottom of the plate to 
partly soften the toast. It should be buttered, and salt- 
ed slightly also, as soon as cooked. A prettier way of 
serving toast is in the form of 

Sippets. 
Cut thin slices of bread into parallelogram strips ; 
toast them carefully and evenly, without breaking, un- 
til they are crisp and 
golden. Serve them on 
a hot plate as soon as 
they come from the fire, 
arranged as in cut, and 
slightly buttered if there be no objection. 




118 Breads and other Grain Preparations. 

Bread sippets are sometimes served to an invalid with 
the juice from roast beef or mutton poured over. For 
this the bread slices need not always be toasted. 

Watek Toast. 
Have an artistic piece of toast made as described in 
the article on toast, and, while still hot, spread a little 
butter evenly over the top, also a slight sprinkling of 
salt ; pour over three fourths of a cupful of boiling 
water. Cover the dish with a saucer, and place it in 
the oven for a few minutes to soak up the water, then 
serve immediately. 

Ckeam Toast (very good). 
Toast the slice of bread as before explained ; place it 
on a hot plate ; pour over boiling water, which drain 
off again in a few moments, allowing the bread to be- 
come partly soft ; spread over a little butter and sprin- 
kle over a little salt, then pour over three or four table- 
spoonfuls of fresh, sweet cream. Let it remain in the 
hot oven two or three minutes to swell. 

MocK-cEEAM Toast. 
Read over the article on " toast," and while two 
slices of bread are drying in the oven make the sauce 
as follows : Put in a little saucepan a cupful (one half 
pint) of milk; when it begins to boil stir in two even 
teaspoonfuls of flour, rubbed smooth with a tablespoon- 
ful of cold milk, also a pinch of salt ; let it boil a min- 
ute, allowing the flour to cook thoroughly ; now take it 
from the fire, add a piece of butter the size of a hickory- 
nut, and stir in the white of an Q,gg beaten to a stiff 
froth ; return the saucepan to the fire for a moment to 
set the Qigg^ without allowing the sauce to boil. Place 
the saucepan at the back of the range, while you care- 



Milh Toast. — Fulled Bread. — Zwiebach. 119 

fully toast the two slices of bread; dip them, when 
toasted, a moment in boiling water, then sprinkle over 
a little salt and the thinnest layer of butter ; pour over 
the sauce and serve immediately. 

Milk Toast. 

Prepare the toast as described for "water toast," 
only, instead of water, pour over milk prepared as fol- 
lows : Bring a cupful of milk to a boil, then stir in an 
even teaspoonfnl of flour, rubbed smooth, with a table- 
spoonful of cold milk ; add also a pinch of salt. Let it 
boil a minute to cook the flour thoroughly, then take it 
from the fire, stir in butter the size of a hickory-nut; 
pour it over the toast placed in a hot dish, set it in the 
oven for two or three minutes to soak, then serve im- 
mediately. 

Pulled Beead. 

Break off irregular pieces of fresh bread about the 
size of an Qgg^ and bake them in a slow oven until quite 
dry and slightly colored. 

Pieces of stale bread or cold biscuits split in two 
can be made as good as new by dipping them quickly 
in cold water and baking them in a hot oven until the 
surface is crisp and the interior is well heated through. 

Zwieback. 

The German zwieback, which can be obtained of the 
bakers, is an excellent breakfast bread, to serve with a 
liot beverage. It is composed merely of slices of rusk 
dried in a very slow oven to a delicate orange color. 
Yienna bread slices are prepared in the same way. 

The zwieback is subjected for a long time to a slow, 
even heat, which can be best obtained in a brick-oven. 



120 Breads and other Qrain Preparations. 

Coffee Cake. 

Ingredients : Two cupf uls of bread sponge ; one egg ; 
one half cupful of sugar; lard, the size of a hickory- 
nut ; one cupful of warm water. 

Mix these ingredients together and make a dough 
not quite as stiff as for bread. Let it rise well (about 
two hours or more) ; roll it out about an inch thick. It 
will spread over a large, square platter. Let it rise again 
until quite light (half an hour or more). Before plac- 
ing in the oven, spread over the top one egg (both w^hite 
and 3^olk) beaten with a teaspoonf ul of sugar, and again 
sprinkle over this about a teaspoonful of coarse, gran- 
ulated sugar. 

Dixie Biscuits. 



This delicious biscuit I have dared to recommend for 
convalescents for a change of bread, as it is to be eaten 
cold. Like the Vienna bread, made with the same yeast, 
they are better quite fresh-baked, or as soon as cold. 

Ingredients: three pints of sifted flour (one and a 
quarter pounds) ; one and a half coffee-cupfuls of milk 
(three quarters of a pint) ; lard, size of an egg ; one egg ; 
one third of a cake of Fleischman's compressed yeast; 
one teaspoonful of salt; a tablespoon even full of sugar. 

The measure of milk is a pint after the lard is added. 
Put this mixture (the milk and lard) over the fire, and 
just as it comes to a boil take it off and let it get luke- 



Dixie Biscuits, 121 

warm ; in the meantime put the yeast cake to dissolve 
in a couple of tablespoonfuls of milk, and so soon as 
the yeast becomes soft, rub it smooth and add it to the 
milk and lard when the latter are lukewarm (not before). 
Mix the salt and flour well together; make a well in 
the middle, pour in the eg^^ well beaten, with the sugar, 
then the milk, lard, and yeast. Stir all well together 
with a spoon, place it in a moderately warm place at the 
side of the range. When it has risen light (about an 
hour, or possibly a little longer), knead it, without add- 
ing more flour, about fifteen or twenty minutes, always 
stretching out the dough towards you, doubling it, and 
kneading on top (to form a proper grain). Cover and 
set it away until it has risen quite light again (about 
three or four hours). Then roll it out a good half-inch 
thick ; cut it neatly with a cutter about two and three 
fourths inches in diameter; roll the smaller cuts left, 
to about half the thickness of the other, and cut it with 
a second cutter two inches in diameter (a kitchen pep- 
per-box top will do). Place the small cuts on top the 
large ones in a platter, and do not place the large ones 
too near each other. When all are arranged set them 
away to rise for the third time (about an hour). When 
quite light, bake in a quick oven. If the biscuits are 
wanted for the invalid's six-o'clock tea, they should be 
begun about half-past ten o'clock in the morning. 

Or the dough 
(without the eg;g 
and sugar if for 
a dinner or break- 
fast bread) can be 
made in the form 
of braids, as shown in cut. This is easily done. Three 
rolls of even size are braided, the ends trimmed and 
turned under. 

C 




122 Breads and other Grain Preparations. 

Wafer Biscuits. 

Rub a piece of butter the size of a large hickorj-niit 
into a pint of sifted flour; sprinkle over a little salt. 
Mix this into a stiff, smooth paste, using therefor the 
white of an egg beaten to a froth and some warm milk. 
Beat the paste with a rolling-pin for half an hour or 
longer ; the more the dough is beaten the better are the 
biscuits. Form the dough into little round balls about 
the size of a pigeon's egg^ then roll each of them to the 
size of a saucer. They should be mere wafers in thick- 
ness. Sprinkle a little flour over the tins. Bake. 

These wafers are exceedingly good to serve with an in- 
valid's soup, or with a cup of tea, or they may be soaked 
in the oven with cream or milk, as described for cream 
toast. When made with the new-process flour or the cold- 
blast flour, containing the full nutrition of the wheat, 
these wafers, when soaked in a nutrient liquid, constitute 
for the invalid not only a healthful, but a sufiicient meal. 

Wafers of oatmeal, granulated wheat, barley-gluten, 
etc., or of mixtures of different grains, can be made in 
the same manner as the wafers described in the preced- 
ing receipt, or they may be made by simply adding a 
little salt and mixing with water, then beaten for twenty 
minutes or more. 

They may be varied in design ; for instance, cut into 
diamond shape with a knife, or with a scalloped paste 
jagger, or in long, narrow strips four inches long and 
three fourths of an inch wide, like toast sippets. How- 
ever they are cut, let them be quite regular and even in 
shape and also baked with care. 

Corn Bread (N'o. 1).— (U. S. Hotel, Saratoga.) 
Ingredients : Two cupf uls flour ; one cupful and a 



Corn Bread. 123 

lialf of cornraeal; a scant half cupful of sugar; one 
and two thirds cupful sweet milk ; two eggs ; lard or 
butter, size of an egg (one ounce) ; a saltspoonful of 
salt ; three teaspoonf uls of baking-powder. 

Mix the flour, cornraeal, salt, and baking-powder 
well together; next beat together the sugar and eggs, 
and add them to the flour, etc., and at the same time 
the butter (melted) and the milk. Mix all well togeth- 
er and bake immediately. 

Sour milk can be used, when a teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in a quarter cupful of hot water should be 
substituted for the baking-powder. 

CoKN Bbead (No. 2). 
Ingredients: one pint cornmeal ; one pint of sweet 
milk; one egg\ one tablespoonful of sugar or syrup; 
one teaspoonful lard (melted) ; two teaspoonf uls baking- 
powder. If sour milk is used, a half teaspoonful of soda 
instead of the cream of tartar should be substituted. 

Corn Bread (No. 3). — (Very good.) 
Ingredients : one cupful and a half of milk ; one cup- 
ful of fine cornmeal, sifted ; two eggs ; scant tablespoon- 
ful of butter ; one teaspoonful of sugar ; one teaspoonful 
of baking-powder. Pour the milk, boiling, on the sift- 
ed meal. When cold, add the butter (melted), the salt, 
sugar, baking-powder, the yolks of the eggs, and lastly 
the whites, well beaten separately. Bake half an hour 
in a hot oven. 

Or the corn cake is still better as follows: — Ingre- 
dients : one pint of milk ; half a pint of cornmeal 
(sifted) ; four eggs ; a scant tablespoonful of butter, 
salt, and one teaspoonful of sugar. 

This last receipt contains no baking-powder. The 
whites of the eggs should be well beaten to a stiff 



124 Breads and other Grain PrejMratlons. 

froth. The ingredients are put together exactly as 
described in first receipt. 

CoKN Rice Bkead. 
Ingredients : one half pint of cornmeal (one cupful) ; 
one pint of cold boiled rice; one half pint (one cupful) 
of milk; one cgg\ one half teaspoonful of salt; one ta- 
blespoonful of sugar; butter, size of pigeon's Q^g\ one 
teaspoonful of baking-powder. Mix the baking-powder, 
sugar, salt, and cornmeal well together. Pass the rice 
through the collander, and add it to the milk, Qgg^ and 
butter (melted). Then stir in the cornmeal, etc., and 
put it quickly in the oven. 

IIoE Cake. 
Pour enough boiling water and milk mixed (say half 
and half — the milk causes it better to brown) on corn- 
meal, salted, to make it rather moist. Let it stand an 
hour or longer. Put two or three heaping tablespoon- 
fuls on a hot griddle greased with lard. Smooth over 
the surface, making a flat cake about half an inch thick 
and of round shape. When browned on one side, turn, 
and brown it on the other. Serve very hot. A good 
breakfast cake with a savory crust. 

Pancakes (of Flour, Granulated Wheat, Cornmeal, 
Bread Crumbs, Oatmeal, Pice, Gluten, etc.). 

Stir two cupfuls of milk into two beaten eggs, and 
stir in enough of any of the flours to make a thin bat- 
ter; add a little salt, and then sprinkle over and stir in 
w^ell a heaping teaspoonful of baking-powder (if the 
milk is sweet) just before baking. 

If there is any cold boiled rice, oatmeal porridge, 
hominy, etc., at hand, some of any or all of these im- 
prove very much the pancakes. The pancakes are also 



Currant Scone. — Hard Graham Bolls, 125 

better the whites of the eggs are beaten to a stiff froth, 
and this and the baking-powder are added just when 
the cakes are to be cooked (not before). 

If sour milk is used, a scant half-teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in a little warm water should be stirred in the 
last thing, although more or less of soda is used, accord- 
ing to the acidity of the milk. If the griddle is quite 
hot and smooth, and is merely moistened with a little 
lard, the cakes will not be greasy nor so very unwhole- 
some. However, I will not risk recommending them 
for our invalid. 

CuEEANT Scone ("Hygienic Cookery"). 

Ingredients: two cupfuls sifted Graham flour; two 
cupf uls sifted white flour ; one cupful and a half of thin 
sweet cream — part milk will do ; one cupful and a half 
of English currants, picked, washed, and drained ; two 
and a half teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, or two-thirds 
teaspoonful of soda, and one and a half teaspoonfuls of 
cream tartar. Stir together the Graham and white flour, 
add the soda (pulverized) and cream tartar (or, in its place, 
the baking-powder), and sift two or three times. Then 
stir in tlie currants, and wet with the cream to make a 
tolerably stiff dough ; knead as little as possible ; gath- 
er up the mass lightly till it will stick together, and roll 
to the thickness of half or three quarters of an inch. 
Prick deeply with a fork or draw shallow lines across 
the top, forming diamond creases. Bake. 

It is very good made of Graham flour without the 
white flour. It is not good the day after it is baked. 
For an invalid it is a good cake, eaten with grape juice, 
etc. 

Haed GeaiIxVm Rolls. 

This is a bread much used by the hygienists, and is 
called " the perfect bread " by Dr. Trail. It is much 



126 Breads and other Grain Prej)araUons. 

relished by those who have become accustomed to it, 
and who crave " no spice but hunger, no stimulant but 
exercise." 

It is made by simply mixing cold water — the colder 
the better — into good Graham flour until it becomes a 
moderately stiff dough, and kneading or pounding it, 
like the Southern beaten biscuit, for twenty minutes or 
more, until it becomes smooth and elastic to the touch, 
and brittle if pulled. If the dough is too stiff the bis- 
cuit will be dry and hard, and if too soft it will be v/et 
and clammy. It will require, perhaps, two thirds of 
a pint of water to mix a quart of flour, although the 
quantity will vary according to the grade of flour. The 
best of Graham flour is made by Ferdinand Schumacher, 
of Akron, Ohio, and also by the Health-food Company. 
The dough is formed into little biscuits about three 
inches long and not quite three fourths of an inch wide. 
Make out the panful quickly, setting them a little apart ; 
prick them with a fork, and bake in a rather quick oven. 
When done they should not yield to the pressure of the 
finger. They may be made into the form of stems of 
the shape of lady's fingers. 

These rolls are better baked fresh, although if any 
are left from the day before they are most excellent 
when warmed over, as follows : Break each roll into 
two or three pieces (do not cut them) ; drop them into 
cold water, and when soaked place them on a bread-pan 
in a brisk oven which will crisp without shrivelling 
them. As soon as stiff and lightly crisped they are 
done. 

Ceacked Wheat. 
The receipt here given is undoubtedly the very best 
one for cooking cracked wheat, or the whole grain of 
wheat. It is one of the most important receipts in the 



Cracked Wheat 127 

book, for the invalid, or, indeed, for any one. It sup- 
plies a dish very palatable, and although light and 
wholesome enough for the most delicate stomach, it is 
as hearty in the richness and fulness of its nourishing 
qualities as a full meal of meat and vegetables. It was 
a very favorite dish at the Vienna bakery in St. Louis, 
and many went there for the purpose of taking it for 
luncheon. Several spoke to me about it, extolling its 
merits ; but as cracked wheat had been an unpalatable 
dish to me as compared with oatmeal, I was slow to try 
it. As soon as tried, however, served as never seen be- 




CRACKED WHEAT. 



fore, viz., cooked with milk, each grain lying separate 
in a cream jelly, served cold in a moulded shape and 
with a little pitcher of cream, and a bright silver urn 
containing pulverized sugar accompanying it, I be- 
came an immediate convert, and it has been a very 
frequent dish at home ever since. 

It is well to ask for the cracked wheat, double milled, 
at the grocer's or miller's, if you would avoid the sili- 
cious fibre which encircles the grain, and which is some- 
times unwholesome for those with delicate stomachs. 
The preparation I prefer is the whole grain, as sold by 



128 Breads and other Grain Preparations. 

the Health-food Company of New York, which is quite 
free from the woody skin. 

Receijpt — The ingredients are, one half cupful of 
cracked wheat ; two and a half cupf uls of water ; two 
and a half cupfuls of milk ; one half teaspoonf ul salt. 

Salt the water, and when it comes to a boil add the 
grits and let it simmer, without cover, on top of the range 
for an hour. The water will then be almost evapo- 
rated ; then add the milk (hot) and let it cook an hour 
longer. Stir it occasionally to keep the wheat from at- 
taching at the bottom, and also to mingle evenly the 
grains with the liquid. More stirring than this is ob- 
jectionable. A copper or porcelain saucepan or earthen 
crock is preferable for cooking this dish, on account of less 
danger from burning. The wheat cooked in a double 
kettle will not be as good, the steam puffing through 
the grains giving better flavor. There is no danger of 
burning if not cooked too fast. The milk used should 
be perfectly fresh and sweet, or the mixture w^ill curdle. 

When done, stir it carefully, as it will be thin and 
the grains will be liable to sink, and pour it into cups 
(previously wet w^ith cold water) about three fourths 
full. Set them one side to become cold and solid. 
Do not remove the wheat from the moulds until read}^ 
to serve. Serve with cream or milk and pulverized 
sugar. 

Oatmeal Porridge. 

It seems very simple to make oatmeal porridge, yet 
it is a very different dish made by different cooks. 
The ingredients are : one even cupful (one half pint) 
of oatmeal to one quart of boiling water, and one tea- 
spoonful of salt. Boil fort3^-five minutes. 

The water should be salted and boiling when the 
meal is sprinkled in with one hand while it is lightly 




EAKTHEN CROCK. 



Oatmeal Porridge. — Cornmeal Mush. 129 

stirred witli the other. When all mixed it should boil 
slowly, uncovered or partly uncovered, without after- 
wards being stirred more than is necessary to keep it 
from adhering to the bottom, and to mingle the grains 
two or three times that they may all be evenly cooked. 
If much stirred the por- 
ridge will be starchy or 
waxy and poor in fla- 
vor. The puffing of ' 
the steam through the 
grains without much 
stirring swells each one 
separately, and wlien 
done the porridge is 
light and palatable. Professional cooks insist upon hav- 
ing copper saucepans for cooking the grains, for the 
good reason that there is but little danger of burning 
in them. A common earthen crock placed on top the 
range answers the purpose very well. Care must be 
taken that a cold crock should not suddenly be placed 
on a very hot surface. Pour hot water in the crock 
before placing it on the range, and there will be little 
danger of breaking. This manner of cooking is ap- 
plicable to all the grains. 

CoENMEAL Mush. 
This may be made by stirring, say, a pint of corn- 
meal into three pints of salted boiling water, and cook- 
ing it a good half-hour. Or, stir a pint of cornmeal, 
mixed with a pint of milk and a teaspoonful of salt, 
into a quart of boiling water, and let it boil half an 
hour, stirring often. 



RECEIPTS FOR GLUTEN. 

I FIND it a little difficult to provide very palatable 
dishes out of gluten, without starch. Added to rice, 
farina, and other starch grains, which are prohibited in 
some diseases, it is very palatable raade into pancakes, 
or any of the puddings made of other grains. For 
thickening sauces, soups, or gravies, it is very satisfac- 
tory. Gluten used instead of bread-crumbs for egg and 
crumbing fish slices or fillets, oysters, sweetbreads, etc. 
(for frying), is also a success. 

Gluten Bkead. 

Ingredients : one pint of milk ; one pint of warm 
water ; butter or lard size of a walnut ; one half cake 
of any fresh, dry hop yeast, or one fifth of a two-cent 
cake of compressed yeast, rubbed smooth with a little 
water ; one egg, well beaten ; a little salt. 

Mix the milk, water, egg, yeast, and lard (melted), and 
stir in the gluten until a soft batter is formed. After 
it has risen (in some warm place) mix in gluten enough 
to form a soft dough (like biscuits), and knead well. 
Form into loaves, and, when risen a second time, bake. 
Gluten bread requires less yeast than ordinary bread, 
and less time in rising. 

Gluten Mush. 
Place one and a half cupfuls of water on the fire to 
boil. Stir smoothly either a cupful of cold milk or 
water into a cupful of gluten, and a half - teaspoonful 



Fried Mush. — Gluten Muffins^ etc. 131 

of salt. When the water boils, pour in the mixture 
gradually and let it cook twenty minutes. 

Feied Mush. 

Slices of cold gluten mush fried or sauted in a little 
hot lard. 

Gluten Muffins. 

Ingredients : one cupful and a half of gluten; one cup- 
ful of milk ; one egg ; one-fourth teaspoonf ul of salt ; 
one teaspoonful of baking-powder. 

Heat the gem pans before buttering, pour in the bat- 
ter, and bake fifteen minutes in a quick oven. 

This quantity will make eight gems, or just fill one 
of the ordinary iron gem pans. Or, the flavor is better 
to add rice as follows : 

Gluten and Eice Muffins (not for diabetics). 

Ingredients : one cupful of gluten ; one cupful and 
a half of cold, boiled rice ; one cupful of milk ; one egg ; 
one half teaspoonful of salt ; butter size of hickory-nut ; 
two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

Mix the baking-powder, salt, and gluten well togeth- 
er. Pass the rice through a colander, and stir into it 
the milk, egg^ and butter (melted) ; next add the gluten 
mixture, and put it quickly into the oven. Or, instead 
of rice, the same quantity of cold, boiled pearled barley, 
or oatmeal may be substituted; or three fourths of a 
cupful of cornmeal and one cupful of gluten, with the 
other ingredients in the preceding receipt, make good 
breakfast muffins. 

A Gluten Pudding or Gruel. 
Ingredients: one cupful of water; two tablespoon- 
fuls of gluten, rubbed smooth in four tablespoonfuls of 
cold water ; the white of one Qgg ; salt. 



132 Becevpts for Gluten. 

When the cupful or half-pint of water is salted and 
boiling, mix in the gluten paste and let it cook ten min- 
utes ; stir in then the white of an Qgg beaten to a stiff 
froth. Let it remain a half-minute (while stirring it) 
to set the Ggg. To be eaten hot, and fresh made. Or, 
instead of four tablespoonfuls of cold water for making 
the gluten paste, let it be four tablespoonfuls of cream, 
and the pudding can be sweetened with a scant table- 
spoonful of glycerine. 

Gluten Pudding. 
Soak two slices of gluten bread in a little milk in 
which an Qgg^ a tablespoonf ul of glycerine, and a sprink- 
ling of nutmeg have been mixed. Do not let the bread 
get too soft to handle. Fry the slices on a griddle in 
either a little hot lard or butter. 

Gluten Cream Wafers. 
Stir gluten (crude or purified) and a little salt into 
sweet cream, until the dough is thick enough to roll out 
to the thickness of pasteboard. Beat the dough with a 
potato -masher for fifteen minutes or more, roll out, 
cut into forms, and bake. 

Gluten Cheese Cakes. 
Add to a cupful of gluten three tablespoonfuls of 
grated cheese, two tablespoonfuls of cream, the yolks 
of two eggs, a saltspoonful of salt, and a little nutmeg. 
Roll thin and bake like cookies. 

Gluten Souffle. 
To a half cupful of gluten add two tablespoonfuls of 
grated cheese, the beaten yolk of an Qgg^ half a salt- 
spoonful of salt, and three tablespoonfuls of cream. 
Mix this evenly together, forming a soft paste a little 



Gluten Souffle. 133 

thicker than for pancakes. The last thing stir in the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in patty 
pans, or paper cases, and serve as soon as baked. It is 
a very rich dish, too rich for much to be eaten at one 
time. 



VEGETABLES. 

A Baked Potato. 
A Potato baked, when properly prepared, is proba- 
bly the most digestible form in which it can be served. 
The excellence of a baked potato depends much upon 
its being served hnmediately when cooked to a turn. 
A moment underdone and it is indigestible and worth- 
less ; a moment overdone and it has begun to dry. It 
requires about an hour to bake a large potato in a hot 
oven. When served and mashed, the addition of some 
cream and a little salt is most excellent. 

To Boil Potatoes. 

Choose those of equal size. Take off a very thin 
peeling, as the best of the potato lies nearest the skin. 
Put them into enough well-salted cold water to cover 
them ; let them boil till thoroughly done, and do not 
let them remain a moment longer. Drain off the water, 
cover them closely, and set the vessel at the side of the 
fire, to allow them to steam for several minutes. A 
point is made in keeping the potatoes covered while 
steaming, for the purpose of retaining heat enough to 
draw out the moisture. The escaping moisture, though 
covered, will not return to the potatoes. Sprinkle over 
some salt as soon as they are fully steamed. It requires 
about thirty-five minutes to boil medium-sized potatoes. 

A copper saucepan, or an iron pot retaining an even 
heat, should be used for boiling potatoes — never a tin 
saucepan. 



Potatoes. — Spinach Dish. 135 

Potatoes {d la creme, very good). 

Cut cold, boiled potatoes into little square bits or dice, 
say a third of an inch square; mix them with enough 
white sauce to moisten them, made as follows : 

Place a tablespoonful of butter in a small saucepan, 
and when it bubbles throw in a tablespoonful of flour ; 
cook it a minute without coloring, then add a pint of 
milk or half milk and half cream, season with a level 
teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of pepper, and a little nut- 
meg. This will make a pint of cream sauce, and will 
be sufficient for a quart of potatoes. 

Place a little butter or drippings in a frying-pan (or 
saute pan), and, when hot, put in the moistened pota- 
toes, color them on one side, loosen them from the pan 
with a pancake-turner, turn them like an omelet on a 
platter, and serve. 

Potatoes {d la creme, au grath}). 
Delmonico serves potatoes as prepared in the preced- 
ing receipt, and instead of sauteing (or frying) them, they 
are placed in a basin or pudding-disli sprinkled over with 
cracker-dust and a little grated cheese, and then they are 
colored in the oven. It is perhaps better after they 
are thoroughly heated in the oven to color them with a 
salamander or hot shovel, leaving no chance for the po- 
tatoes to become dry by too long a process of heating. 

A Pketty Spinach Dish. 
In picking over the spinach separate the thick stalks 
from the leaves. A bright green color is given to it by 
throwing it into plenty of well-salted water, when it is 
boiling very fast. It should be taken out the moment 
it is soft, for allowing it to remain too long would im- 
pair its color. Drain it well, and do as you please about 




136 Vegetables. 

putting it tlirougli a colander. Just before serving 
reheat it on the top of the range, adding a little but- 
ter, pepper, and salt. 
Serve enough for one 
person on a little 
square piece of toast, 
flatten the top, and 
decorate it with some 
finely chopped hard- 
boiled egg^ the yolk thickly sprinkled in the centre 
and a circle of white around. This will resemble a 
sunflower. 

Beets oe Caeeots {cl la creme). 
Boiled beets or carrots, sliced, are mixed in cream 
sauce as described for potatoes d la creme, excepting, in 
the place of nutmeg, a tablespoonful of finely minced 
parsley is added. The appearance of the vegetables is 
improved by cutting them with fancy vegetable cutters. 
There must not be too much sauce, only a soft coating 
around each slice of beet or carrot. 

Cauliflowee {a la crhne). 

The boiled cauliflower, cut into flowerets, is mixed 
with cream sauce as described for potatoes gl la creme, 
and, when placed in a dish for serving, the top is sprinkled 
over with rather coarse bread crumbs, which have been 
colored {sauted) in a little butter. 

Sometimes the top is sprinkled with sifted cracker 
crumbs and grated cheese, and is then colored with a 
red-hot sliovel. Served in shells or paper cases the dish 
is especially attractive. Sometimes the sauce is finished 
by stirring in the beaten white of an Qgg just before it 
is taken from the fire. It makes also a good sauce for 
asparagus. 



Stuffed Tomatoes. — Brown Sauce. 137 

Stuffed Tomatoes (Chef Cuppinger). 

For eight tomatoes make a stuffing as follows : In- 
gredients — Butter, size of an Qgg\ half an onion, cut 
fine; three fourths of a cupful of either chicken livers 
or cold, cooked chicken or meat of any kind, chopped 
iine; three sprigs of parsley, chopped fine; one and 
a half cupfuls of bread crumbs, after they have been 
soaked in water and squeezed dry by wringing in a clean 
towel ; one large tomato, cut fine ; one egg ; half a salt- 
spoonful of thyme; a pinch of cayenne pepper; salt. 

Place the butter in a saucepan, and when it bubbles 
add the minced onion. When it has colored slightly 
add the meat, bread crumbs, and all the other ingre- 
dients. 

Fill the tomatoes (with the tops cut off and interior 
partly removed) with this mixture, letting it rise from a 
half of an inch to an inch above the tomato. 

Place the stuffed tomatoes in a little baking-pan, 
sprinkle cracker crumbs over the tops, also a bit of but- 
ter over each one. Bake them in the oven about fifteen 
or twenty minutes. 

It should be served with a brown sauce made as fol- 
lows : 

Brown Sauce. 

This is made with but little trouble, although there 
are many kinds of brown sauces. 

In a small saucepan place butter the size of a walnut, 
anii when it bubbles throw in a tablespoonful of minced 
onion ; when beginning to color add a tablespoonful of 
flour, which allow to color also. Now add one and a 
half or two cupfuls of stock if you have it, and, if not, 
water, and two or three sprigs of parsley. Let it cook a 
couple of minutes, season with a little pepper and salt, 



138 Vegetables, 

pass it through the gravj-strainer, and add one or two 
tablespoonfuls of ahnost any kind of wine — sherry being 
generally used. 

Stuffed Peppers. 

This is an especially nice dish of Chef Cuppinger's. 
As a course for a luncheon or dinner it may be better 
than for the invalid. Yet, as an appetizer, it would not 
be unfit sometimes for the latter. Use the green or red 
peppers of round shape ; cut them lengthwise, and re- 
move the interior, seeds and partitions; cover them 
with cold water and parboil them five minutes. Now 
proceed with them as for stuffed tomatoes, serving them 
also with the brown sauce. 

Care must be taken not to have too much cayenne 
pepper in the stuffing for the peppers. None at all 
is really needed. 



LITTLE DISHES. 

Boiled Eggs. 
Eggs are generally boiled by placing them in boiling 
water, and boiling them two and three quarter min- 
utes. It is better to put the eggs in a saucepan of cold 
water, half a pint to each Qgg. Set it over a fire hot 
enough to make the water boil in three or four min- 
utes. As soon as the water boils, remove the saucepan 
from the fire and let the eggs remain in the water 
one minute. 

Poached Eggs. 
This is probably the best mode of serving them for 
an invalid, unless served uncooked, as described in the 
succeeding receipt. 




Poached eggs are generally wretchedly cooked by 
non-professional cooks. They are either thrown into 
rapidly boiling water and torn into pieces, or are over- 
done. If overdone they are indigestible. The albumen 
or white of the egg shrinks and becomes hard and 



140 Little Dishes. 

tough if overcooked — indeed, it forms a cement when 
heated above a certain point. 

The white of the Qgg, to be properly poached, should 
be white, but of a soft, transparent, jelly-like substance. 
It should be tender and delicate, evenly cooked through- 
out, no part being hard while another is semi-raw. To 
prepare it in this manner the water in which it is 
cooked should not reach the boiling-point. 

The easiest way is to slip the Qgg (previously broken 
into a saucer) carefully into salted water which is sim- 
mering. Then immediately set the saucepan at tlie 
side of the range (to prevent the water from boiling) 
and let the egg remain about ten minutes.* 

Let the w^ater be about two inches high in a low 
saucepan. Eacli Qgg should be broken separately into a 
saucer and slipped very carefully into the water. Wlien 
cooked just enough take out the egg \\\t\\ a perforated 
ladle (there should be nothing to trim), and sh'p it on a 
thin, buttered, and slightly salted square piece of toast 
which has previously been partly moistened by pouring 
a little boiling water in the bottom of the platter, and 
allowing the toast to soak it. As soon as cooked, 
sprinkle salt and a little pepper over the egg tops. Any 
substance absorbs more readily the flavor of seasoning 
w^hen it is hot rather than when lukewarm or cold. 

Poaclied eggs are very good introduced into beef 
broth. Delmonico serves poached eggs on toast with 
sorrel sprinkled over the tops. Fine water-cresses make 
a pretty garnish. 



* W. Matthieu Williams in "The Chemistry of Cooking" says the per- 
fection of egg-poaching is to keep the egg in svater at the temperature of 
160° for half an hour. 



A Raw Egg. — A Beefsteak, 



141 




A Eaw Egg. 

This is an invaluable preparation 
for an invalid. 

Beat well the yolk, together with 
a teaspoon fill of sugar in a goblet ; 
then stir in one or two teaspoonfnls 
of brandy, sherry, or port wine ; add 
to this mixture the white of the ^^^^ 
beaten to a stiff froth. If properly 
beaten it should fill a goblet to over- 
flowing. Carefully stir altogether. 
If wine is not desired, flavor the q^^ 
with nutmeg. It is very palatable 
without flavoring at all, using only 
the sugar. 

A Beefsteak. 
For our invalid, cut out the tender part of the beef 
from the porterhouse or tenderloin steak. Let it be 
three quarters of an inch thick. Do not pound it. A 
well-shaped piece cut from the round or sirloin steak 
is not to be despised, as it contains more juice than 
the tenderloin. A cut from a round steak sliould not 
be as thick as a tenderloin cut, and, if tough, can be 
pounded a little. Have the gridiron quite hot and well 
greased with pork or beef suet. Put on the steak over 
a hot, clear fire, and cover it with a baking-pan. A 
wood or charcoal fire is preferable to hard coal for broil- 
ing anything. In a few moments, when the steak is 
colored, turn it over; watch it constantly, turning it 
when it gets a little brown. Do not stick a fork into it, 
as that will let out the juice, and do not place anything 
over it which can touch the top, as that will prevent the 
steak from swelling. Do not put on the pepper and 



142 Little Uishes. 




salt before the steak is cooked, as it is calculated to 
harden the fibres. If the steak is very thick, either tlie 
fire must not be too brisk or it should be turned very 
often. However, the quicker any article to be broiled 
is cooked, the better. When cooked enough (from five 
to ten minutes), it should be rare or pink in the centre, 
though not raw. Place it on a hot platter, sprinkle 
it with pepper and salt, and spread over some sweet, 
fresh butter; set the platter in the oven for a few 
moments to let the butter soak a little in the steak, 
then serve immediately. A steak is much improved 
by a simple addition called a la maitre d* hotel, as fol- 
lows : 

When the steak is cooked and placed on a hot platter 
it receives first a sprinkling of pepper and salt. Then 
comes a sprinkling of very finely minced parsley, then 
some drops of lemon juice, lastly small pieces of butter 
are carefully spread over. The steak is then placed in 
the oven for a few moments for the butter to become 
melted and soaked into it. 

If an invalid can eat a beefsteak he can generally eat 
some one vegetable with it, and to make the little plump, 
tender morsel of beef look more tempting, garnish it 
with a vegetable. 

If with potatoes, bake one or two equal-sized pota- 
toes to a turn ; when quite hot remove the inside, mash 
perfectly smooth, season with butter, or, what is better, 
cream and salt, and press it through a colander. It will 
look like vermicelli. Place it in a circle around the 
steak, or in banks on each side. Other vegetables, if 



A Beefsteak. 14:3 

allowed, as pease, string-beans, green corn, etc., can be 
served in the same manner. 

A tomato sauce (page 155) is a most excellent accom- 
paniment for a beefsteak. 

A beefsteak is always more attractive garnished with 
parsley, or any kind of leaves, and slices of lemon. 

Chopped Beefsteak. 

From Miss Juliet Corson's very valuable receipts for 
the sick, published in Harper's Bazar : 

" Trim the fat from a pound of round or sirloin steak, 
cut the meat in inch pieces, put it into a meat chopper 
or mincing-machine, and chop it for five minutes; then 
take from the top of the meat the fine pulp which rises 
during the operation of chopping ; continue to chop 
and to remove the pulp until only the fibre of the meat 
remains. Press the pulp into a round fiat cake, and 
broil it over a very hot fire for about five minutes on 
each side ; season it lightly with salt and Cayenne pep- 
per, and a little butter, and serve it hot.* 

In selecting beefsteak for invalids some persons choose 
i\\Q filet, or tenderloin, because it seems most tender; it 
is hardly more digestible on that account, for its loose- 
ness of fibre does not favor complete mastication ; and 
it is less nutritious than sirloin or round steaks, because 
its muscular tissue is not so well nourished as that of 
the last-named cuts. Beef for the use of invalids should 
either be broiled quickly over a very hot fire, and light- 
ly seasoned with salt and Cayenne pepper, roasted at an 
open fire, or baked in a \qvj hot oven without any wa- 
ter in the pan ; if the inside of beef is purple, it is not 
sufiiciently cooked to be easily digested ; the color of 

* This steak is often served almost entirely uncooked. The pulp is 
slightly seasoned before it is formed into cakes, then merely heated 
through, although colored a light brown on the outside. 



144 Little Dishes, 

properly cooked beef is pinkish-red. The inner cuts are 
the most digestible." 

Beef Sandwich. 
Scrape very fine two or three tablespoonfuls of fresli, 
juicy, tender, uncooked beef; season it sliglitly with 
pepper and salt ; spread it between two thin slices of 
slightly buttered bread, cut it neatly into little dia- 
monds and serve. 

A Yenison Steak. 
A venison steak should be cooked in the same man- 
ner as a beefsteak. A little melted currant jelly is a 
___,..,___^__ pleasant addition. 

^^ '^■-^^^■^^y^ ^^ ^s sometimes 

__ J^fe^^^ made in the form 
'^^S^^J"^^^^ of a sauce by di- 

luting the jelly 
with a little water, and thickening it with a little corn- 
starch or flour. 

A Mutton Chop. 

A cut from the loin is best. One containing a large 
tenderloin could be chosen for our invalid. Let it be 
cut thick and leave on it plenty of the fat. Broil as 
described for beefsteak. Serve with mashed potatoes 
or other vegetables, and decorate it artisticall3^ 

Breast of Chicken. 
For an invalid a chicken fricassee or a tender bit of 
boiled chicken is most desirable. A breast of a tender 
chicken, seasoned and rubbed with butter, and thrown on 
some burning charcoals which are not too hot, is very sa- 
vorj'. If skilfully cooked the surface will be very little 
charred, and the inside will be very tender and juicy. 
When done, season again with butter, pepper, and salt. 



A Fricassee of Chicken^ etc. 145 

Or another mode of cooking a breast of a spring 
chicken is to stick the leg bone into the end, giving it 
the form of a cutlet, rub it with butter, and broil it care- 
fully. The second joint of a leg of a chicken contains 
more juice, and has more flavor than the breast. 

A Feicassee of Chicken. 
Cut two chickens into pieces. Reserve all the white 
meat and the best pieces ; the remainder use to make 
the gravy. Put the latter pieces into a porcelain ket- 
tle with a quart of cold water, one clove, pepper, salt, a 
small onion, a little bunch of parsley, and a small piece 
of pork ; let it simmer for half an hour, and then throw 
in the pieces for the fricassee ; let them boil slowly un- 
til they are quite done, take them out then, and keep 
them in a hot place. Now strain the gravy, take off 
all the fat, and add it to a roux of half a cupful of 
flour, and a small piece of butter. Let this boil a few 
moments, then take it off the fire and stir in three 
yolks of eggs, mixed with two or three tablespoon- 
fuls of cream, also the juice of half a lemon. Do not 
let it boil after the eggs are in or they will curdle. 
Stir it well, keeping it hot a moment; then pour 
it over the chicken and serve. Some of the fricassees 
with long and formidable names are not much more 
than wine or mushrooms, or both, added to this re- 
ceipt. 

Chicken Croquettes (Philadelphia Cooking School). 

To every pint of cold cooked chicken, chopped very, 
very fine, allow half a pint of cream or milk, one table- 
spoonful of butter, two tablespoonf uls of flour, one table- 
spoonful each of parsley and onion, chopped also very 
fine, a little nutmeg, salt, and Cayenne pepper to taste. 

Place the butter in a saucepan, and when it bubbles 
7 




146 Little Dishes. 

throw in the onion, parsley, and flour, and let them cook 
a minute without taking color; then pour in the milk, 

stirring it well with 
"^^ an Qgg whisk nntil 

the mixture is quite 
even and smooth. 
Let it boil anoth- 
er minute to thor- 
oughly cook the flour, then stir in the chicken pulp and 
seasoning. When cool, foam into croquettes, roll in 
beaten egg and sifted cracker crumbs, and fry by immer- 
sion in boiling lard. The paste will be rather soft to 
handle, but a cook can easily manage it w^ith a little 
practice. Of course, the softer the paste, the more 
cream}^ and soft will be the croquettes when cooked. 

Croquettes are very good made with finely minced 
cold roast veal (not boiled) instead of chicken. They 
imitate the chicken croquettes in flavor. 

Or, they can be made of cold roast beef, roast lamb, 
mutton, cold cooked sweetbreads, cold fish, etc., instead 
of chicken. In case sweetbreads are used they are cut 
into dice rather than minced. 

Chicken croquettes are much improved when served 
with a sauce, either brown, white, or tomato sauce. 
They are sometimes served with pease, etc. 

Chicken with Macaeoni, ok with Eice. 
Cut the chicken into pieces ; fry or saute them in a 
little hot drippings, or in butter the size of an egg ; 
when nearly done put the pieces into another saucepan ; 
add a heaping teaspoonful of flour to the hot drippings, 
and brown it. Mix a little cold or lukewarm water to 
the Toux ; when smooth add a quart or more of boiling 
water. Pour this over the chicken in the saucepan, add 
a chopped sprig of parsley, a couple of slices of onion, 



Boiled Chicken. — Fried Chicken. 147 

pepper, and salt. Let the chicken boil half or three 
quarters of an hour, or until it is thoroughly done ; then 
take out the pieces of chicken. Pass the sauce through 
a sieve, and remove all the fat. Have ready some maca- 
roni which has been boiled in salted water, and let it come 
to a boil in this sauce. Arrange the pieces of chicken 
tastefully on a dish, pour the macaroni and sauce over 
them, and serve. Or, instead of macaroni, use boiled rice, 
which may be managed in the same way as the macaroni. 

Plain Boiled Chicken. 
Throw the chicken, cut into pieces, in plenty of boiling 
water (enough to have some left, after the boiling is over, 
for sauce). Boil slowly until the chicken is very ten- 
der, if it takes all da}^ Thicken the gravy with flour, 
first rubbed smooth with a little cold water. Season 
with pepper and salt. A potpie addition is generally 
made to this dish. 

Fried Spring Chicken. 

The excellence of spring chickens depends as much 

on feeding as on cooking them. All chickens should 

be drawn as soon as killed, and are better if killed 

a day before cooking. Do not wash them. Several 




hours before cooking the chicken, dismember it, and 
dip each piece hastily in a bowl of water ; spread them 
on the table, sprinkle pepper and salt over all, then turn 
and season also the other side. KoU each piece sepa- 
rately, while still wet, in a plate of flour. When ready 



148 Little Dishes. 

to cook have two or three spoonfuls of lard in a saute 
pan or spider quite hot, in which fry, or, rather, saute, the 
chickens, covering them and watching that they may 
not burn. The quicker they are cooked without scorch- 
ing the better. When done arrange them on a hot dish, 
pour out the lard from the spider, leaving what will 
stick at the bottom. Pour in one or two cupfuls of 
milk, thicken it with a little flour (rubbed smooth with 
a little cold milk), season with pepper and salt, pass it 
through the gravy strainer, pour it over the chicken. 
Minced parsley is often added to the gravy. A circle 
of boiled rice or cauliflower around the chicken with 
the white sauce poured over both is very nice. Deco- 
rate with parsley. 

Chicken Souffle. 
Chop half a pound of cold cooked chicken (freed from 
skin and bone) fine as possible ; pound it in the chop- 
ping-bowl, or, better, in a mortar; then rub it through a 
sieve with the edge of a large spoon. The white meat, 
although it has not the flavor of 
the dark meat, is better suited to 
this purpose. 

Now make a roux in a saucepan 
' as follows : Place in it butter size 
of a pigeon's Qgg, and when it bub- 
bles stir in, with an egg whisk, a 
dessertspoonful of flour ; when 
evenly blended stir in three quar- 
ters of a cupful of hot water, and let it cook a few mo- 
ments, stirring it smoothly together with the Qgg whisk ; 
then stir in the chicken pulp, and season it palatably 
with salt and a little red pepper. Let the paste get 
entirely cold (covering it so that it will not get hard), 
then mix into it lightly, first the yolks of two eggs beat- 




Prairie Chicken, — Broiled Fish. 149 

en to a cream, then the whites of three eggs beaten to 
a stiff froth. Put it immediately into little paper souffle 
cases, or silver scallop shells, or into a little pudding 
dish. Bake about fifteen minutes in the oven, and serve 
it immediately when done. 

A BlED 

Broiled, as described for beefsteak, and served on toast, 
is good for an invalid who is very well, provided 
the bird is quite tender. It is not to be trusted for a 
genuine invalid. 

Beeast of a Pkairie Chicken. 
The breast of prairie chicken broiled and served on 
toast is most digestible if tender. If not very tender it 
should be parboiled before broiling. Sometimes it is 
boiled with a little onion and parsley added to the water, 
and when done the gravy is strained and freed from fat, 
thickened with a roux (flour and butter), and seasoned 
with some claret or sherry. 

Broiled Fish. 
For this purpose a white fish from the lakes, or a 
bass is generally used. The two sides of the fish are 
spread open by cutting partly through the back. It is 
seasoned with pepper and salt and sprinkled well with 
flour. The inside of the fish is first presented to the fire 
on a gridiron, well greased with lard or a piece of pork. 
As the fish can only be turned once, it must be watched 
carefully to avoid burning. Before turning, loosen the 
fish carefully from the gridiron with a knife or pancake 
turner. If large, place a platter close over the top, and, 
turning the gridiron, the fish is left in the platter, when 
it can be easily slid to the gridiron again, for the pur- 
pose of cooking the other side. 



150 Little Dishes. 

When cooked, serve the inside of the fish uppermost 
on the platter, sprinkle over pepper, salt, and butter, 
minced parsley, and a little lemon juice. Place it in the 
oven for a few moments to soak the butter, etc. Gar- 
nish with lemon slices and parsley. 

Boiled Fish 
Is cooked by first immersing it in cold salted water. 
It is generally served with a drawn-butter sauce, with 
an addition of chopped hard-boiled eggs, or minced pars- 
ley, etc. Sometimes the fish is cut transversely into 
pieces about an inch and a half long and cooked " en 
inatelote^'^ as follov»^s : sprinkle salt on them and let 
them remain w^hile you boil two or three onions (sliced) 
in a little water. Pour off this water when the onions 
are cooked, and add to them a little pepper, about a tea- 
cupful of hot water, and a teacupful of wine, if it is 
claret or white wine, and two or three tablespoonfuls 
if it is sherry or port ; now add the fish ; when it be- 
gins to sinniier, throw in some bits of butter which 
have been rolled in flour. When the fish is thorough- 
ly cooked (about fifteen minutes) serve it very hot. 
Stewed fish is much better cooked with wine, but is 
very good without it, in which case add a little parsley. 
Decorate the dish with fancy cuts of toasted bread. 

Bass a l'Espagnole. 
Cut a bass or a flounder into filets as follows: Lay the 
fish on the table, and with a thin, sharp-bladed knife cut 
down to the bone in the centre of tlie fish, following the 
course of the backbone, from the head to the tail. Insert 
the knife in the cut already made and cnt towards the 
fin, keeping the knife pressed close against the bone, tak- 
ing off the whole side piece, or filet Take care not to 
mangle the flesh. Cut off all four of the side pieces of 



Sweetbreads. 151 

the fish in the same way, and lay them with the skins 
downwards on the table, holding the end of ^ filet with 
the fingers of the left hand, lay the blade of the knife 
flat on the table between the skin and meat, cutting 
from you. If the end is held firmly, the knife laid flat, 
the \v\\o\q filet can be cut from the skin, without man- 
gling it. 

Broil the filets on an oiled gridiron, over a moderate 
flre, spreading a little butter, pepper, and salt over them 
as they are cooking. Lay them on a hot dish and pour 
over them a sauce made as follows : Fry the slices of a 
quarter of an onion, partly coloring them in a little hot 
butter ; at the same time a teaspoonf ul of flour may be 
thrown in to receive also a little color. Pour in now" a 
cupful of stock and a cupful of canned tomatoes, season 
with cayenne pepper and salt, and when it has boiled a 
couple of minutes, to become slightly thickened, pour it 
over the cooked ^Z^i^^ w^ithout straining. Over the top 
of the dish sprinkle very finely minced parsley. Profes- 
sional cooks sometimes add, also, minced mushrooms to 
the sauce. 

Sweetbreads. 
Professional cooks generally soak sweetbreads for an 
hour in cold water before cooking, for the purpose of 
making them white. The flavor is better, however, to 
throw them immediately into boiling salted water, and let 
them cook rapidly until thoroughly done (about twen- 
ty minutes). Eemove, then, the skin and little pipes, 
sprinkle over pepper and salt, roll them in Qgg^ peppered 
and salted, and then in flne sifted cracker crumbs. Fry 
by immersion in hot lard, flrst testing it by throwing in 
a bit of bread, to see if hot enough. Serve immediately 
with either tomato sauce (page 155) or a plain white 
sauce (see next receipt). A circle of rice (boiled in 



152 Little Dishes. 

milk) or boiled macaroni, or some flowerets of cauli- 
flower, with the white sauce poured over both, is very 
good. Sweetbreads are often served with pease. The 
flavor of sweetbreads is much better if they are cooked 
to completion when once begun. It is not so well to 
parboil and allow them to get cold before frying. 

Sweetbreads, with Cream Dressing, on Toast. 
Boil a pair of sweetbreads as indicated in the last 
receipt, and, when they have been skirmed and the pipes 
have been removed, cut them into good-sized dice. 
Then mix them in a sauce made as follows : Place in a 
little saucepan butter the size of a black walnut, and 
when it bubbles throw in a dessertspoonful (half an 
ounce) of flour ; let it cook without coloring, then pour 
in gradually, stirring with an egg whisk, one and a half 
cupfuls of milk, or half milk and half cream ; season it 
with salt and a suspicion of red pepper. This is seasoning 
enough for any invalid, yet sometimes a little nutmeg 
and sometimes grated cheese is also added. When the 
sauce is smooth, mix in the sweetbread dice, and when 
all is thoroughly hot, serve it immediately, poured over a 
w^ell-made piece of buttered toast, partially moistened 
W' ith a little hot water. Decorate the dish with parsley, 
or small leaves, or flowers of any kind. 

Macaroni and Tomato Sauce. 
Sauce : Put butter size of an Ggg into a saucepan, and 
when it is at the boiling-point throw in an onion 
(minced), two sprigs of parsley (chopped fine), and a 
little pepper. Let it cook five or eight minutes ; then 
throw in a heaping tablespoon ful of fiour and a little 
broth from the stock-pot ; if there be no broth, use a lit- 
tle boiling water; stir this well and let it cook five or 
eight minutes longer. Now pour in about a coffee-cup- 



Macaroni au Gratin. — Macaroni Croquettes. 153 

ful of tomatoes which have been stewed and strained 
through a colander or a sieve, and stir all together. 
Boil half a pound of macaroni tender in well-salted 
boiling water or in stock, and drain it in the colander. 
Place alternate layers of the macaroni and the sauce 
on a hot dish, pouring the sauce over the top. Put the 
dish into the oven two or three minutes to heat. Serve 
immediately. 

Macaroni au Geatin. 
Ingredients: One cupful of w^ell- boiled macaroni 
(macaroni added to well-salted water while boiling, and 
boiled about twenty minutes, or until soft, then drained); 
after it is chopped quite line, one cupful of milk, 
two or three sprigs of parsley, or a heaping teaspoon- 
ful after it is chopped fine, a heaping teaspoonful of 
flour, one egg^ butter the size of a black walnut. Put the 
butter in a little saucepan, and, when it bubbles, throw 
in the flour and cook it without coloring, then add the 
milk and the parsley ; let it simmer a minute, then take 
it from the fire ; add a little of the chopped macaroni to 
the Ggg for the purpose of beating it more easily, then 
add the sauce and remainder of the macaroni. Put it 
into a little pint pudding-dish or gratin pan, sprinkle 
over coarse bread crumbs which have been colored in a 
little butter, or place it in the oven for a few minutes to 
color the top, which makes it " au gratinP 

Macaroni Croquettes (Louis Bertholon, Chef). 
Throw a third of a package (one third of a pound) 
of macaroni into salted boiling water, and boil it for 
twenty minutes; then cut it into quarter-inch lengths, 
forming little rings. 

Prepare a sauce as follows : Make a roux by placing 
in a saucepan butter the size of a pigeon's ^gg\ when 
7* 



154 Little Dishes, 

bubbling, add a generous tablespoonfiil (a quarter of 
a cupful) of flour; let it cook a minute, and then add 
a cnpful of stock, half a cupful of cream, two table- 
spoonfuls of grated cheese, fifth of a nutmeg (grated), 
salt, little pepper, and, when all is well mixed and 
cooked for a couple of minutes, take the mixture from 
the fire and stir in also the beaten yolk of an Qgg. 
Eeturn the saucepan to the fire to cook the Qgg slightly, 
but do not let it boil, as that would curdle the Ggg. 
Now mix in evenly the macaroni rings (two cupfuls), and 
spread the mixture about half an inch in thickness over 
a pan. When cold it should be made into croquette 
form, egged and bread-crumbed, to be fried in boiling 
lard. 

This mixture is quite soft to handle, but with a little 
practice it is easily managed. Take enough for a cro- 
quette with a spoon ; shape it on the table with a knife; 
sprinkle over some sifted cracker crumbs, then lift it 
dexterously with a pancake turner on the plate of 
slightly beaten Ggg\ turn it over with the pancake 
turner; then again lift it to a plate of sifted cracker 
crumbs. It can now be rolled without trouble. 

Croquettes of all kinds are better to be quite soft. 

Cheese served in this manner is not indigestible, ac- 
cording to M. Mattieu Williams in an article on "The 
Chemistry of Cookery," published in the Popular Sci- 
ence Monthly. Mr. Williams asserts, with good reason- 
ing, that cheese, although indigestible when eaten raw, is 
very digestible when cooked and mixed with other arti- 
cles of food. The diet is so hearty and rich, that when 
eaten in much quantity, other food should not be taken 
at the same time. In this receipt the cheese can be 
omitted if preferred. 

These croquettes are to be served with tomato sauce. 



Tomato Sauce. — A Saladj etc. 155 

Tomato Sauce. 

Ingredients: One pint can of tomatoes; one sprig of 
parsley ; half of a bay leaf; two cloves ; one teaspoonful 
of onion, or one slice ; salt and pepper. Add the sea- 
soning to the tomatoes, and let them simmer all togeth- 
er for fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally. Pass it 
through the sieve, leaving out the seasoning. Place in 
a saucepan butter the size of a hickory nut, and, when 
it bubbles, add a teaspoonful of flour. Mix and cook 
it well, then add the tomato pulp, stirring it until it is 
smooth and consistent. 

The sauce can be made one or two days before it is 
needed, if more convenient, and reheated just before 
serving. 

A Salad. 

A lettuce salad is very wholesome served with meat. 
The usual dressing is a mixture of the following pro- 
portions: Three tablespoonfuls of oil ; one tablespoon- 
ful of vinegar (a little less if the vinegar is quite strong) ; 
a saltspoonf ul of salt ; half a saltspoonf ul of pepper ; an 
even teaspoonful of onion, minced very fine. The salt, 
pepper, and onion are first mixed together, then the oil 
(by degrees), and lastly the vinegar. 

A very good dressing for lettuce is furnished by any 
meat or fowl gravy (the thickened gravy better), and a 
very little vinegar. 

Otsteks on Toast, or in Shells ok Paper Cases. 

These oysters may be served on thin slices of toast, 
or in paper cases, or in shells, if convenient. A sprink- 
ling of bread crumbs colored in a little butter would 
finish them in the paper or shells. 

Put one quart of oysters (about twenty-five) on the 



166 Little Dishes. 

fire in their own liquor. The moment thej begin to 
boil turn them into a hot dish through a colander, leav- 
ing the oysters in the colander. Put into the saucepan 
two ounces of butter (size of an eg^, and when it bub- 
bles sprinkle in one ounce (a tablespoonful) of sifted 
flour; let it cook a minute without taking color, stirring 
it well with a wire Qgg whisk, then add, mixing well, a 
cupful of the oyster liquor. Take it from the fire and 
mix in the yolks of two eggs, a little salt, a very little 
cayenne pepper, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, and 
one or two gratings of nutmeg. Beat it w^ell; then 
return it to the fire to set the eggs, without allowing it 
to boil. Put in the oysters. 

Oyster Croquettes. 

Place a pint of oysters (the measure nearly solid with 
oysters) over the fire, with a quantity of their cold 
liquor; when they begin to simmer, drain them quite 
dry from their liquor (through the colander), and cut 
them into large dice. If the oysters are small, cutting 
them into three or four pieces each will be suflScient. 

Next, place butter size of a black walnut in a little 
saucepan, and, when it bubbles, throw in a dessert- 
spoonful of onion, minced fine; let it fry a couple of 
minutes without taking color; then add a tablespoonful 
(quarter of a cupful) of flour ; let it also cook a few mo- 
ments without taking color ; then pour in half a cupful 
of cream or milk, and half a cupful of the oyster liquor ; 
season with salt, cayenne pepper (very carefully), and a 
few dashes of nutmeg. When it is evenly mixed and 
the flour is thoroughly cooked (a couple of minutes), 
take it from the fire, stir in the oysters, and set it away 
to get cold. Mould them, roll in egg (slightly seasoned 
with pepper and salt) and sifted cracker crumbs, and fry 
them by immersion into boiling lard. 



Oyster Croquettes. 157 

They can be served with or without any of the sauces 
which are suitable for fish or meat; for instance, drawn 
butter sauce with either chopped hard-boiled eggs or 
capers mixed in ; Bechamel sauce, the simple brown 
sauce, etc. 

Serve them quite hot, directly from the fire. 




SOME CREAM SOUPS. 

It is perhaps a little troublesome to make the cream 
soups, as the material has to be passed through the 
sieve. Thej are exceedingly delicate and nourishing, 
however, and help to furnish a pleasant variety in a 
limited rejpertoire of dishes. The farina cream is es- 
pecially simple. The cream of oysters is particularly 
good. I first saw it at Delmonico's, and wondered what 
could be the ingredients, admiring more than ever the 
consummate skill of those cooks. 

The special enigma was, how the soup could be so 
light, as if raised with baking-powder. In learning how 
to make these soups afterwards, from a most able chef 
(Louis Cuppinger), it was a matter of surprise and satis- 
faction to find the oyster cream so simply made, con- 
taining only the ingredients of a common oyster soup. 

The potato cream {Puree Alexandra) is delicious, 
and can be made without stock. Stock in itself con- 
tains some nutrition, and enough might well be made 
at once in winter to supply our invalid for a week. 

The asparagus cream soup is also especially good. 

For the oyster and chicken cream soups a small pestle 
and mortar (inexpensive) were considered by the chef 



Cream of Oysters. 159 

indispensable for pounding the meat before passing it 
tlirough the sieve. It is possible that after the meat is 
chopped very fine some other means may be suggested 
for pounding the meat, without coloring, if the pestle 
and mortar are not at hand. 

A bowl of cream soup, with a couple of wafer crack- 
ers or a slice of Graham bread, might at times well con- 
stitute a sufficient meal for an invalid. 

Cream of Oysters. 
Put a quart of oysters with their liquor in a porcelain 
kettle or cleanest of saucepans over the fire. When the 
oysters are just about to boil, pour them into a colan- 
der (over a bowl), leaving the oysters in the colander. 
Chop the oysters as fine as possible, and pound them 
well in a mortar or thick bowl. Now make a roux; 
i. ^., put in a saucepan a piece of butter size of a small 
Qgg, and, when it bubbles, throw in a generous table- 
spoonful of flour (one and a half ounces) ; stir it well 
with the Qgg whisk, to cook the flour without allowing 
it to color; now pour in the oyster liquor, and when 
well mixed over the fire add the pounded oyster pulp 
and a pint of good cream. Pass this all through the 
sieve; season it carefully with salt and cayenne pepper; 
return it to the fire to heat without allowing it to boil, 
and, just as it is about to be served, add half a cupful of 
fresh cream, and a piece of butter size of a small pig- 
eon's Qgg. Whisk it well with the egg-beater (keeping 
it hot, without boiling, over the fire) for a minute; pour 
into a warm tureen and serve immediately. 

The chef sprinkled over the top some coarse, dry 
bread crumbs fried in a little butter. This addition is 
generally made to all the cream soups. Sometimes little 
fancy cuts of toast, cut witli tin cutters, of diamond 
shape, are sprinkled over the top of the soup in the tn- 



160 Cream Soups. 

reeii, instead of the fried bread crumbs. For robust 
people little drops of fried fritter batter, looking like 
cooked beans, are sometimes sprinkled over the top of 
vegetable cream soups. 

Ceeam or Rice or Farina or Barley. 
Put either a half cupful of rice or three fourths of a 
cupful of farina or barley into a quart of boiling clear 
stock, and let it cook until the grain is quite soft (about 
half an hour); then press it through the sieve, add 
two or three tablespoonfuls or more of good cream, and 
season carefully with red pepper and salt. Heat it 
again, and, just before serving, whip the soup in the 
tureen with the egg whisk. 

Cream of Chicken. 
When chicken is boiled for the family dinner (a 
sprig of parsley and a slice of onion being put into the 
kettle), a breast and some soft pieces of the chicken can 
be appropriated for our invalid. It should be chopped 
fine as possible, then pounded in a mortar, if one has 
it; and, if not, in a chopping-bowl. It is then moist- 
ened with a little of the chicken broth, and then pressed 
through a wire sieve. To a generous half cupful of this 
fine chicken pulp add about one cupful and a half of 
the chicken broth, free from fat. Thicken with a 7'oux; 
i. e., in a little saucepan place a piece of butter size of 
a hickory nut, and, when it bubbles, throw in a tea- 
spoonful of flour; let it cook w^ithout coloring; then 
add the chicken pulp and broth (mixed); stir well, and, 
when about to simmer, add a couple of tablespoonfuls 
of good cream, and a teaspoonful of parsley, chopped 
very, very fine. Season also with red pepper and salt. 
Whisk it with the egg-beater, before serving, keeping it 
hot, though not allowing it to boil. 



Cream of Asparagus. — Asparagus Soup. 161 

Ckeam of Asparagus. 

This is one of the best of the cream soups. The re- 
ceipt is given for two and one third quarts of soup, yet, 
of course, half or a third of the quantity can be made 
for the invalid, if more is not needed. 

Ingredients : Two quarts of stock ; about thirty 
stalks of asparagus ; one half cupful of good cream ; two 
tablespoonf uls of flour ; butter size of pigeon's Qgg. 

Boil the asparagus in the stock; cut and save some 
of the points, to serve in the soup; the remainder press 
through the sieve. Now make a roux by putting the 
butter in a saucepan, and, when it bubbles, throw in the 
flour, which cook a minute without coloring, stirring it 
well with the Qgg whisk. Now pour in the stock and 
the asparagus pulp, gradually at flrst; let it boil a min- 
ute, then add the cream, which heat, but do not let boil, 
for fear of curdling. Season to taste with salt and 
pepper. When the soup is in the tureen, ready to serve, 
sprinkle tlie asparagus points on top. 

A Simple Asparagus Soup (Dr. Comstock's Soup). 

Fifteen or more stalks of asparagus are boiled in a 
quart of milk, and the whole (excepting some of the 
points) is passed through the sieve. It is then thick- 
ened with a roux^ as in the preceding receipt, with but- 
ter size of a walnut, and a heaping teaspoonful of flour. 
A few tablespoonfuls of good cream can then be added, 
or it is very good without it, if it is not at hand. It is 
then seasoned to taste with salt and pepper, and served 
with the asparagus points sprinkled over the top. 

Cream of Potatoes {Puree Alexandra). 
Boil in water five medium-sized potatoes until they 
are nearly done ; then pour off the water, and add a 



162 Cream Soups, 

scant two quarts of clear stock, made witli eitlier veal 
or beef. When the potatoes are thoroughly cooked, pass 
them, with the stock, through a wire sieve ; then add the 
beaten yolks of two eggs and half a cupful of good, thick 
cream ; season carefully with salt and cayenne pepper. 
Stir it for a minute over the fire, to slightly cook the 
eggs, without allowing it to boil ; then keep it at the 
side of the range (better kept in a double kettle or lain 
marie) until about ready to serve. 

At the same time that the soup is being made pre- 
pare some vegetables for a garnish, as follows : Cut a me- 
dium-sized turnip (two ounces) into little dice this way — 
cut the turnip into slices about a quarter of an inch 
thick, without allowing the knife to cut quite through, 
so the slices will hold together; then slice them trans- 
versely in the same manner. Now, holding the turnip 
firmly together, cut off the ends into little dice about a 
quarter of an inch square. In the same manner cut a 
carrot (two ounces) into little dice ; provide, also, a ta- 
blespoonful or more of pease and some string-beans cut 
into quarter-inch lengths. 

All these vegetables may be used, or part of them, as 
convenient ; the carrots and pease, however, are desira- 
ble for their fine color and flavor. Boil the vegetables 
separately, in little cups of salted boiling water ; drain, 
and place them in the soup tureen. When about ready 
to serve, place the soup over the fire without allowing 
it to boil, and whip it vigorously with the Qgg whisk for 
one or two minutes ; then add the vegetables, and serve 
immediately. 

Or, the soup can be made without stock, boiling the 
potatoes in water, and adding more cream and a piece 
of butter size of a small egg. 



Cream of String-heans and of Corn. 163 

Cjream of Stking-beans. 

Throw a quart of green string-beans in boiling water, 
in which there is half a tablespoonf ul of soda or as much 
carbonate of ammonia as would lay on the point of a 
knife, to preserve the color; drain the beans, and pass 
them through a sieve (not colander, but sieve). There 
will be about a pint of pulp. Make a roux by placing 
in a saucepan butter the size of a pigeon's Qgg^ and, 
when it bubbles, throw in two large, heaping table- 
spoonfuls of flour (two generous ounces); let it cook 
without taking color ; then pour in a quart of clear stock 
(see page 164), and the pint of string-bean pulp. Stir 
it well with the egg whisk, letting it cook a few min- 
utes without boiling. It would be liable to curdle if 
boiled. Just before serving pour in nearly a cupful of 
good, thick cream ; season with salt and cayenne pepper. 
Whip it well with the Qgg whisk over the fire, and serve 
immediately. 

At Delmonico's they served, sprinkled over the soup 
in the tureen, imitation navy-beans, made by dropping 
drops of fritter batter in hot lard. They were crisp 
and savory, but a fritter of any kind should never be 
mentioned in an invalid's book. 

Ceeam of Corn. 
To a pint of grated corn (the sweet part, nearest the 
cob, well scraped) add a quart of hot water. Boil it for 
an hour, and press it through the sieve. Put into the 
saucepan butter the size of a small egg, and, when it 
bubbles, sprinkle in a heaping tablespoonful of sifted 
flour, which cook a minute w^ithout coloring, stirring 
well. Now add half of the corn pulp, and, when smooth- 
ly mixed, stir in the remainder of the corn ; add a little 
cayenne pepper, salt, a scant pint of boiling milk, and a 



164 Other 8ou])s. 



'gg 



cupful of cream. Before serving, stir well with an e^ 
whisk, to give it a light consistency. 

Or, for a change, an addition to the soup of the yolks 
of two eggs, and the soup stirred a minute over the fire, 
although not allowed to boil, is good. 

Or, a spoonful of chopped parsley may be added. 

Cream of Corn (Ko. 2). 
This is the chefs receipt. Place over the fire a pint 
of grated corn, with a piece of butter size of a walnut ; 
let it cook only a minute, when pour in a quart of veal 
stock, and boil it an hour; pass it then through the 
sieve ; add about three tablespoonf uls of cream ; beat it 
again, and as it is about to be served stir it well with an 
Q>gg whisk. 

OTHER SOUPS. 

Stock for Soup. 

A good stock may be made by simply putting fresh 
lean beef or veal, with some bone, into clear, cold wa- 
ter (a gallon of water to three pounds of meat and bone), 
and let it simmer for five hours, passing it through the 
sieve, and seasoning it carefully with pepper and salt. 
It is better to make the stock the day before it is want- 
ed, as then every particle of fat will rise to the top, and 
form in a hard cake, which can be removed at once, and 
the settlings can be avoided at the bottom, leaving a 
clear soup. There should never be a particle of fat 
left in a soup. 

The flavor of the soup is much improved by a chick- 
en addition. Occasion might be taken, at the time of 
making beef or veal stock, to have a boiled chicken 
for dinner, boiling it in the stock-pot. The flavor is 
also much improved by the addition of vegetables thrown 



Gouffe's Beceijpt for Stoclc or Bouillon. 165 

in an hour before the stock is done. Four or five slices 
of onion, first fried {sauted) or colored in a little drip- 
ping on a platter before adding to the soup ; also, the 
same quantity of sliced carrot, two good sprigs of parsley, 
and, if you have it, a stick of celery or a teaspoonful of 
celery-seeds, and a couple of cloves stuck in the onion. 
All contribute to the quality of the soup. 

In winter enough stock ought to be made to last a 
week, as it will keep that time and longer in a cold 
place. Each day a portion of the stock jelly can be re- 
heated, and, with different accompaniments, the invalid 
can have many changes. For instance, the addition of 
a few spoonfuls of cooked macaroni will make a good 
macaroni soup. A spoonful of cooked pease and other 
vegetables, in fancy shapes, would make a spring soup 
(or Julienne) \ a few spoonfuls of cooked tomatoes a 
tomato soup ; toasted bread sippets, in fanciful shapes, 
2ijpotage aux croutons. The stock, added to the cream 
soups, furnishes a dish for the most fastidious epicure, 
and a nutritious repast for the invalid. 

In selecting the meat for soups cheap cuts from the 
leg and shoulder of beef are generally used. Ox-tails 
make good soup. Knuckles of veal, calf-heads, and 
tough chickens play a satisfactory role in stock. The 
meat, afterwards, can be made into palatable side dishes 
in the way of croquettes, etc. 

I will give Gouife's receipt for stock, showing the 
distribution of vegetables, as follows : 

Gouffe's Eeceipt fok Stock or Bouillon. 
Three pounds of beef ; one pound of bone (about the 
quantity in that weight of meat) ; five and a half quarts 
of clear, cold water ; two ounces of salt ; two carrots, 
say ten ounces; two large onions, say ten ounces, 
with two cloves stuck in them ; six leeks, say fourteen 



166 Other Soups. 

ounces ; one head of celery, saj one ounce ; two tur- 
nips, say ten ounces ; one parsnip, say two ounces. 

Oyster Soup. 
To one quart, or twenty-five oysters, add a half-pint 
of water. Put the oysters on the fire in their liquor. 
TJie moment it begins to simmer (not boil, for that 
would shrivel the oysters), pour it through a colander 
into a dish, leaving the oysters in the colander. Now 
put into the saucepan two ounces of butter (size of an 
Ggg) when it bubbles, sprinkle in a heaping tablespoon- 
f ul (one ounce) of sifted flour ; let the roux cook a few 
moments, without coloring ; stirring it well with the 
egg whisk, add to it gradually the oyster juice, and 
half a pint or a cupful of good cream (which has been 
brought to a boil in another vessel) ; season carefully 
with Cayenne pepper and salt. Skim well, then add 
the oysters. Let it get hot without boiling and serve 
immediately. 

Clam Bkoth. 

This broth is much used of late years for invalids. 
Indeed, in New York it seems to be as standard a sick- 
room dish as beef tea. It can often be retained on the 
stomach when other foods disagree with the patient, and 
is a valuable substitute for milk, when that proves unsat- 
isfactory. It is stimulating and nutritious. It can be 
administered by the spoonful, like beef tea, in cases of 
severe illness, or can be taken by the cupful, when, 
with a Graham cracker, it affords a hearty repast for 
others. 

For half a pint (a cupful) use six large hard-shelled 
clams. Wash them well with a brush, and place them 
in a kettle with two or three tablespoonfuls of water 
over the fire. 



Clam Soup. — Flour Soup. 167 

The clam broth is simplj the juice of the clam boiled 
for a minute. It does not require seasoning, as clam 
juice is salt enough ; indeed, it has sometimes to be a 
little diluted with hot water to 'reduce the salt flavor. 
In pouring the juice from the kettle, avoid any parti- 
cles of sand which may have settled at the bottom. 

As soon as the clams are opened in the kettle tliey 
are sufficiently cooked; further cooking renders them 
tough. If 

Clam Soup 
is to be made, remove the clams from the shells as 
soon as they have opened, cut off the tough parts, and 
place them one side in a warm place, until the juice is 
prepared. Add about a cupful of hot milk to the 
juice, and thicken it with a roux, or a little flour. 
Now add the soft parts of the clams, bring the soup 
again to the boiling-point and serve. 

Placing the live clams over the fire is a very cruel 
way to open them. Men -cooks and fishermen open 
them with a knife, a half-dozen in the course of half a 
minute. 

Flour Soup. 
Put butter, size of a large hickory nut, into a little 
saucepan, and, when it bubbles, throw in a heaping table- 
spoonful of flour (a generous ounce). Stir it well w^ith the 
egg whisk, allowing it to color evenly to a light brown. 
Take care that it does not burn. Now gradually pour 
in a pint of warm milk, stirring it well with the egg 
whisk. There should be no lumps. Let it cook for a 
minute only, when take it from the fire and add the 
beaten yolk of an egg. Keturn it to the fire for a few 
moments to set the egg^ stirring well, and not allowing 
it to boil, as the egg would then curdle. Season with 



168 Other Soujps, 

salt, a suspicion of red pepper, and a half teaspoonful of 
parsley chopped very line. French cooks often add the 
same quantity of chopped elves, but the latter we will 
not recommend for our invalid. 

It can be served with or without little toasts of bread, 
cut in thin slices and fanciful shapes before toasting. 

The French and Germans often flavor " Soupe a la 
Farine" with a little sugar and cinnamdn instead of 
salt, pepper, and parsley or cives. 



DISHES OF RICE. 

To Boil Rice. 
Foe a teacnpfnl of the boiled rice place a quart of 
clear water over the fire, and, when it Soils hard, throw 
in two ounces, or two tablespoonfuls, of rice which has 
been previously well washed in cold water. Throw in 
also a teaspoonful of salt. Take off any scum that 
rises. In twenty minutes press some of the grains be- 
tween the fingers, and if quite soft it is cooked enough. 
Do not cook the grains until they become broken. 
When done, pour the rice into a sieve to drain off the 
water; return the rice grains to the dry saucepan ; 
cover them partly, and set them at the side of the fire 
to steam and dry. 

To Boil Rice in Milk. 
Bring one pint of milk to a boil, when stir in two 
tablespoonfuls of well-washed rice and a quarter of a 
teaspoonful of salt ; pour it into a basin, cover it well, 
and place it in the oven to bake for an hour ; or it may 
be cooked in the double saucepan. In a copper sauce- 
pan it could be boiled at the top of the range without 
burning, when it would be cooked in about twenty 
minutes. 

Rice 
May be served with many dishes; for instance, in a 
circle around chicken, fried (spring chicken) or boiled, 
or cold chicken dice stewed, with white or brown 
sauce poured over both the rice and chicken ; or it 



170 



Dishes of llice. 




may be served in the same manner with sweetbreads, 
or with stewed fruits, apples, peaches, pears, etc. 

EicE AND Geavy. 
Fresh boiled rice wet with the juice from roast beef 
or mutton (free from fat) and served on a piece of toast. 

Rice Cones. 
Cook tlie rice in eitlier milk or water, and while 

liot pour it into cups 
(which have previ- 
ously been dipped 
, in cold water) fill- 
ing them about 
three fourths full. 
When cold and 
ready to serve, turn them out, arranging them uni- 
formly on a platter; or, for our invalid, turn one into 
a small oval platter, or a saucer. Scoop out a little of 
the rice from the top of each cone, and put in its place 
any kind of jelly. Pour in the bottom of the dish a 
hot brandy sauce (see page 189), or hot sweet sauce of 
any kind, provided it is not flavored with vanilla. 

A Plain Rice Pudding. 

The manner of making this most delicious and plain- 
est of puddings was taught me by a most able chef 
(Louis ]3ertholon). The flavor is quite remarkable, con- 
sidering that it is almost as simple as plain boiled rice. 

For an invalid choose a little pudding dish holding 
about a pint. Put in a heaping tablespoonful of un- 
cooked rice, fill the dish with boiling milk, and place it 
in the oven. Let it cook, stirring it once or twice (to 
prevent lumping) for about lialf an hour; then take it 
out and mix in a tablespoonful of sugar and half a tea- 



Rice Pudding. 171 

spoonful of essence of lemon, or the tliin, yellow cuts 
(without any white) of the rind of half a lemon, or with 
jleur d^ Orange., or a sprinkling of nutmeg, or, indeed, 
any flavoring preferred, excepting vanilla, which is too 
unwholesome for invalids ; return the dish to the oven, 
cooking altogether two hours, or one and a half hours, 
if the oven is quite hot. As the milk boils down more 
hot milk should be added (keeping the dish always tilled) 
by lifting the skin and pouring in the milk at the side, 
or by removing the skin and allowing a new one to form. 
The dish will require about one and a half pints of milk. 

KicE Pudding (No. 2). 

Another successful pudding, where every grain of 
rice lies in a creamy bed. 

Ingredients: One cupful of boiled rice (better if 
fresh cooked and hot); three cupfuls of milk; three 
fourths of a cupful of sugar; one tablespoonful of 
cornstarch ; two eggs ; flavoring ; or half these ingredi- 
ents for a pint pudding dish. Dissolve the cornstarch 
tirst with a little milk, and 
then stir in the remainder 
of the milk. Bring this 
to a boil, when take it 
from the fire, and, when 
slightly cooled, stir in the 
rice and the yolks of the eggs beaten well with the su- 
gar. Return this to the fire (there is less risk of burn- 
ing in a custard kettle) and stir until it begins to thicken 
like boiled custard, watching it carefully not to let it 
boil or curdle. ISTow, again, remove it from the fire, 
add the flavoring, say a scant tcaspoonful of lemon ex- 
tract, and pour it into a pudding dish. Spread over 
the top the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, 
with a little sugar and flavoring added. Or, with the 




172 



Dishes of Rice. 




aid of a cone of writing-paper, decorate the top with a 
fanciful design, ol la meringue. Give it a delicate color 
in the oven. To be eaten either hot or cold. 

KicE A l'Imperateice (Louis Cuppinger). 
Place over the fire one pint and a half of milk, and 

the thin yellow cuts of 
the rind of a lemon, 
and, when it boils, stir 
in half a teacupful of 
rice, and an even salt- 
spoonful of salt. When 
cooked (in about 
twenty minutes) stir in 
carefully half a cupful of sugar and a few drops of es- 
sence of lemon, or two or three spoonfuls of rum, or 
any flavoring. The rice should be rather moist when 
cooked. Spread it on a platter to get quite cold, then 
stir in carefully a half -pint of cream, whipped to a 
froth, and the fourth of a box of gelatine dissolved in 
a scant half cupful of water. To dissolve the gelatine, 
add it to the cold water, then set it for fifteen or twenty 
minutes in a warm place. Mould the rice. For the 
invalid it may be moulded in a teacup, or in one of the 
pretty little fancy moulds, which come of all sizes. 

Rice Pudding a la Guillod. 

Ingredients : a scant half cupful of rice ; one pint of 
water; one cupful (half-pint) of milk; butter size of a 
hickory-nut; one tablespoonful of sugar; four eggs; 
salt; flavoring, say a scant teaspoonful of lemon extract, 
or two or three tablespoonfuls of rum. 

When the water (salted) is at the boiling-point add 
the rice, and cook it twenty-five minutes ; then add the 
milk (hot) ; cook it ten minutes longer ; then add the 



Currant or Plum Jelly Sauce. VIZ 

butter, sugar, lemon, and well-beaten yolks of the eggs. 
Stir this for a few moments over the tire to set the eggs, 
without allowing it to boil. This batter can be stirred 
with a spoon for the purpose of partly breaking up the 
grains of rice, or it may be passed through a sieve ; either 
way is very good. When the batter is entirely cold stir 
in dexterously the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth, and put it immediately into a buttered double 
boiler (page 85), or into a long tin pail which can be 
covered, and set into a pot of boiling water, the water 
reaching about three fourths to the top. A. weight should 
be placed on top of the tin pail to keep it from turning. 
Cook about three quarters of an hour. Turn out careful- 
ly on a platter, and serve with currant or plum jelly sauce. 
This receipt is made by my most able cook, Louise 
Guillod, who for six years has relieved me of all re- 
sponsibility of the cuisi7ie. 

CUKEANT OK PlUM JeLLY SaUCE. 

Stir two dessertspoonfuls of currant jelly (a scant 
third of a cupful) and two tablespoonfuls of sugar into 
one and a half cupfuls of cold water. It is sometimes 
difficult to dissolve the jelly. Bring it to a boil, then 
add a teaspoonful of either cornstarch or flour for a 
thickening, first rubbed smooth in a little cold water ; 
let it cook two or three minutes. To be served cold. 

A KicE Dish (to be served as a vegetable). 
Mix carefully (not to break the grains) in a pint of 
boiled rice a tablespoonful of either minced parsley or 
cives ; put a piece of butter size of a pigeon's Qgg into 
a saucepan, and let it color a light brown ; mix the rice 
in the butter, and serve hot as a vegetable. A little 
mound of this rice may be placed in the centre of a 
platter, with a row of green pease around it. 



CREAMS AND FRUITS. 

"Whipped Ckeam. 

There is no more wholesome, nutritious, and delicious 
dessert for an invalid than whipped cream, either served 
simply with a wafer biscuit or some very thin slices of 
sponge cake (cake not very allowable) around to form 
a charlotte-russe, or with a stewed pear, peach, apple, or 
some wine jelly for a centre. 

No better ice-cream can be made than the simple one 
of wdiipped cream frozen. The cream (thick) is sweet- 
ened and flavored with any of the flavoring extracts 
(except vanilla) or any of the sweet wines or liquors. 
It is delicious merely sweetened. The cream froths 
more readily when quite cold. The cream-whipper is 
recommended, yet, without this, vigorous whipping with 
a silver fork will accomplish the result. The froth, as 
it rises, is to be skimmed ofl: and placed on a sieve ; that 
in the dish below is returned to be re whipped. Place 
the cream f rotli, as soon as all whipped, on the ice, to re- 
main until served. 

Clabbeeed Milk (Dr. Gatchell). 
Set a quantity of skimmed milk away in a covered 
glass or china dish. When it turns, i. e., becomes smooth, 
Arm, and jelly-like, it is ready to serve. Do not let it 
stand until the whey separates from the curd, or it will 
become acid or tough. Set it on the ice for an hour be- 
fore wanted for use. Serve from the dish in which it 



Cottage Cheese. — Ice-cream, 175 

has turned. Cut out carefully with a large spoon, put 
in saucers, and eat with cream and nutmeg. This is one 
of the most wholesome of dishes, and those to whom it 
is new soon acquire a taste for and grow fond of it. To 
be relished the clabber must be new and fresh. It is 
generally eaten with cream, sugar, and sometimes nut- 
meg. 

The clabbered milk is an excellent diet for some dys- 
peptics ; however, they should not eat it with sugar. In 
case the clabbered milk is not agreeable at first, begin 
with a small quantity — a tablespoonful at a time — and 
gradually a taste for this very useful food can be ac- 
quired. Some prefer taking it as a drink, beating it up 
until it becomes creamy. 

Cottage Cheese. 

Cottage cheese is made of the curd left after sepa- 
rating the whey from clabbered milk. 

Tie the clabbered milk in a cloth, hang it (for in- 
stance overnight) and let the whey drain out. 

Or, place a pan of clabbered milk over a kettle of 
boiling water until the whey becomes merely hot. If 
the pan is placed directly on the range, let the whey be- 
come merely hot and no more. The boiling-point would 
spoil the cheese by making it tough. The whey is then 
pressed from the curd and the latter is mixed with 
cream or butter, or both, and salt, making the cheese 
rather moist, yet firm enough to mould into balls. 

Ice-cream and Iced Peaches. 
Sometimes ice-cream is given to a patient suffering 
with a fever or inflammation of the stomach. The sim- 
plest and richest ice-cream is pure cream sweetened to 
taste, and flavored ys\\\\ fleur d' orange, extract of lemon, 
or a very little sherry (never vanilla), and frozen. It is 



176 Creams and Fruits. 

still better to whip it and freeze the whipped cream. 
If it is desirable that the cream be not so rich, a simple 
frozen boiled custard is very good. 

The custard is made by adding the yolks of two or 
three eggs, wxll beaten, with a tablespoonful of sugar to 
a pint of fresh milk. This is stirred in a double boiler, 
or in a tin pail placed in a second vessel containing boil- 
ing water, until it just begins to thicken. It is then re- 
moved at once (to prevent curdling) and seasoned as just 
described for whipped cream. The iced custard is im- 
proved by stirring in it, when partly congealed in the 
freezer, more or less whipped cream. However, this 
adds again to its richness. Chopped peaches or grated 
pineapple could also be added at this time. 

A mixture of sweetened fresh peaches, pared, stoned, 
and quartered, with or without cream mixed with them, 
and frozen in a mould (without stirring the mixture) is 
also a most delicious dish for a febrile sufferer. I have 
never tasted canned peaches or pears frozen in this way, 
but think they might be satisfactory if the fruit were 
especially good. 

Baked Apples, etc. 

Nothing is more simple, wholesome, and palatable 
than a baked apple served with cream and sugar. The 
canned peaches are generally heavy for an invalid ; and, 
by the way, tin -canned tomatoes and acid fruits are 
forbidden entirely by many physicians, the tin having 
a deleterious effect on the acid of the vegetable or 
fruit. 

Baked apples are prepared as follows : With a sharp- 
pointed knife, or an apple-corer, remove the cores with- 
out breaking the apples. Set them in a pan just large 
enough to hold them. Fill the apertures with sugar, 
and for a change a small stick of cinnamon, or the thin, 



Apple Sauce. — Pear Compote. 177 

yellow slices of lemon rind can be inserted also. Pour 
a half cnpful of water into the pan and bake the apples 
until tender. They are oftener cooked without cover, 
yet are very good covered with a basin and allowed to 
cook in the steam. For a change the apples may be 
pared. Serve with cream and sugar. Baked apples 
and stewed prunes are probably the most wholesome 
sweetmeats for an invalid, and can be served at any 
meal. 

Apple Sauce. 

Apples (pippins especially good), neatly and evenly 
quartered (having already been pared and cored) are 
placed in a porcelain pan with enough cold water to 
barely cover them. Sugar to taste is added, and per- 
haps some raisins, sometimes slices of lemon, some- 
times a few sticks of cinnamon, each or all, are added. 
Cook them slowly, and the moment the apple quarters 
are tender when pierced with a fork, they are done, 
ready to be poured into some pretty glass dish, and al- 
lowed to get cold before serving. 

Sometimes the apple is stirred into a half puree, or 
pulp, and sometimes it is passed through the sieve. 

A good apple sauce is made by adding to the apple 
which has been passed through the sieve, and sweet- 
ened to taste, the beaten whites of eggs just before it 
is served — say the wliites of two eggs stiffly beaten, to a 
pint of apple pulp. 

Pear or other Fruit Compote. 
A compote is merely the fruit (pear, peach, apple, 
plum, etc.) boiled whole with only enough water to 
cover it, and sweetened to taste. The fruit is only 
cooked until tender. Pears are generally selected for 
compotes when not quite ripe. 

The California dried pears, stewed until tender, and 
8* 



178 



Creams and Fruits. 




sweetened to taste, are 
most excellent for our 
invalid when the fresh 
pears cannot be obtained. 
Compotes are often 
served with a circle of 
rice (boiled in milk) 
around, or the rice may 
be in the centre and the 
fruit placed around it. 

Sea-moss Blanc-mange. 
Wash one and a half ounces of Iceland or Irish moss 
in cold water, then place it over the fire in a cupful 
(one half pint) of fresh, cold water. Stir it occasionally 
until soft ; add then one and a half cupfuls of warm 
milk and three lumps of sugar. Place the little sauce- 
pan containing these ingredients into a second larger 
saucepan half filled with boiling water, and let the wa- 
ter boil until the moss is entirely dissolved. Pour this 
into teacups or little moulds previously wet with cold 
water. Turn them from the moulds when hardened 
and ready to serve, and serve each mould with three or 
four tablespoon fuls of cream poured around, and, per- 
haps, a preserved strawberry half buried on top ; or a 
fruit compote of any kind can be poured around the 
blanc-mange. 

CoRNSTAKCii Blanc-mange. 
Allow three tablespoonfuls, or three quarters of a 
cupful, of Diiryea's cornstarch to a quart of milk. Stir 
enough of the cold milk into the cornstarch to make a 
soft, smooth paste ; bring the remainder of the milk to 
the boiling-point, stir in the paste, and boil it about 
three minutes, taking care that it does not burn. Pour 



CharloUe-russe, 179 

it into cups or moulds previously wet with cold water, 
and set it in a cold place to harden. Serve with sweet- 
ened cream or a little soft-boiled custard, and a couple 
of preserved strawberries for a garnish. 

CiTARLOTTE-EUSSE. 

The charlotte -russe made after this receipt is un- 
doubtedly one of the very best ever made. 

Bring a cupful, or half a pint, of milk almost to the 
boiling-point, and then stir in the yolks of four eggs, 
previously well beaten, with three tablespoonfuls of 
sugar. Stir this carefully over the fire (in a double 
kettle) making a boiled custard. Care must be taken 
that it does not curdle, or become too thick. Take it 
from the fire and add to it a quarter of a boxful of 
gelatine, previously soaked with enough milk to cover 
it in a cup, and dissolved, by setting it at the side of 
tlie fire. Add also, when the custard is a little cooled, 
two or three tablespoonfuls, of best sherry wine for a 
flavoring. Set this custard on ice, or in a cold place, 
until partly congealed, and then stir into it, evenly and 
carefully, a quart of cream whipped to a stiff froth. 

This can be poured into either a charlotte pan, or 
little paper cases (page 153), lined with lady-fingers, or 
into a pretty glass dish with a row of lady -fingers 
around the sides, and then it is served in the same disli. 

If sponge cake is objectionable for the invalid, the 
creamy custard, which is simple and wholesome enough 
for almost any one, can be served alone, in the paper 
cases. 



CUSTARDS. 

Plain Baked Custakd (very good). 
A PLAIN custard may be made with a pint of milk, 
either two whole eggs or the yolks of three eggs, and a 
couple of tablespoonf uls of sugar. It can be flavored with 
a little nutmeg or extract of lemon. It is very good 
without flavoring. The eggs and sugar are well beaten 
together before the milk is added. It is poured into a 
small pudding dish or basin, and this is set in a larger 
basin containing hot water, which reaches three fourths 
to the top of the pudding dish. The two vessels, one 
in the other, are then placed in the oven until the cus- 
tard is set (about twent}^ minutes). As soon as it is set 
it is done, and should not be left to allow the whey to 
separate. This is the very best way to bake custards. 

CusTAED A LA MoERisoN (a dclicious custard). 
Make a boiled custard with a pint of milk, the yolks 
of three eggs (if small), and a tablespoonful of sugar. 

The yolks and sug- 
ar are beaten to- 
gether, the milk 
added when warm, 
and the whole 
cooked in the 
double boiler. It 
must be stirred constantly while cooking, and the in- 
stant watched when it is of exactly the right thickness, 




Custards, 181 

resembling rather thick cream. If allowed to remain a 
moment too long it curdles and is spoiled. A c^^^ tells 
me, however, that if a custard or puree soup begins to 
curdle it can be stopped by pouring in quickly a little 
cold milk or water, and stirring very regularly for a few 
minutes. When the smooth boiled custard is cold.f and 
flavored with anything but vanilla, the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, are mixed in smoothly with 
the egg whisk. 

"The top of the custard may be decorated with a little 
of the egg froth mixed with a little bright red jelly, 
with the aid of a paper funnel or meringue decorator, 
or the white, for decorating, may be stirred with zest, or 
thin slices of lemon peel (without white), and slightly 
sweetened. This will give a delicate green color to the 
meringue as well as a delicious flavor. The lemon 
strips are to be removed. The custard should be served 
soon after the beaten white of the egg is mixed in, as 
the egg froth is not cooked. 

Tapioca ok Sago Custaed 
is merely an addition to a plain custard (before it is 
baked) of more or less tapioca or sago after it has been 
soaked an hour or more in hot water. 

The two following are from Gouffe's "Keceipts for 
the Sick," called by him '' Petit pot de creme^ au cafe^'' 
and ''''Au chocolate It may not taste as well under the 
common name of 

A Cup of Coffee Custakd. 
Beat well in a coffee cup or small fancy pudding dish 
the yolks of two fresh eggs and a teaspoonful of sugar. 
Then mix into it four tablespoonfuls each of fresh- 
made, clear coffee, and milk. Set the cup into a basin 



182 Custards. 

of liot water so that the water will reach nearly to the 
top of the cup; put this into the oven and cook about 
fifteen minutes, or until the custard is set without cur- 
dling. To be served hot or cold. 

A Cup of Chocolate Custakd. 
Put a heaping teaspoonful of grated chocolate with 
two tablespoonf uls of milk, and stir it over the fire until 
perfectly smooth; then add six tablespoonfuls of rich 
milk, and also the yolks of two eggs which have been 
well beaten, with a teaspoonful of sugar. Cook the 
same as coffee custard, and serve either hot or cold. 

Granulated ob Ceushed Barley, Oat, or Wheat 
Custard. 

The grain is thrown into salted boiling water and 
cooked fifteen or twenty minutes, or until thoroughly 
done. It is then drained, and a few tablespoonfuls (the 
custard should not be too thick with the grain) are 
added to a plain baked custard (page 180), before it is 
baked. Or the cooked grain can be substituted for rice 
in rice pudding No. 2 (page 171). 

Rennet Custard. 

A very palatable and digestible dish for an invalid. 

Sweeten some milk to taste ; place it over the fire 
until lukewarm ; remove it from the fire and mix in it 
thoroughly some liquid rennet (it comes prepared for 
custards, and can be purchased at the druggist's), in the 
proportion of a tablespoonful of rennet to a quart of 
milk, in summer — perhaps a very little more rennet in 
winter. Let the milk stand lukewarm until a quite con- 
sistent curd is formed, then put it in a cold place until 
served. 

The milk should be prepared in the dish in which it 



Caramel Custards. 183 

is to be served ; for, if it is disturbed, the wliey will sepa- 
rate, which must be avoided. It is served with a little 
cream, or whipped cream poured over, and perhaps gar- 
nished with a preserved strawberry or two on top. 

Sometimes the milk might be flavored with a very 
little brandy, rum, curagoa, or maraschino before the ren- 
net is added. 

Caramel Custard. 

Make the caramel by putting two tablespoonfuls of 
brown sugar and a teaspoonful of water over the fire 
and stirring it until it gets a quite dark brown — not 
black; then add a dessertspoonful of water. It will 
make a thick syrup. Pour this into the bottom of two 
cups or little fancy moulds, and turn it around until it 
covers the bottom and sides. 

For the custard, beat well three eggs (yolks and 
whites), with a teaspoonful of white sugar and the very 
thin yellow cuts of a lemon ; then stir in a cupful of 
milk or thin cream which has been brought to the scald- 
ing-point (not boiling) over the fire. 

Fill the cups or moulds (previously lined with the 
caramel) with the custard; place them in a basin of 
hot water, the water reaching nearly to the top of the 
moulds, and bake them in the oven until the custard is 
set, or feels firm to the finger — no longer. They will 
set in twelve or fifteen minutes. The custards may be 
served either hot or cold — although they are generally 
served cold — turned from the mould when just ready to 
be served. 



JELLIES. 

Wine Jelly. 

Ingeedients : One box of gelatine, soaked in one pint 
of clear, cold water, one pint of wine, the juice and the 
thin cuts of the rinds of three lemons, one and a quarter 
pounds of sugar (or according to taste), one quart of 
clear boiling water, the whites of two eggs (well beat- 
en) and the shells, and a small stick of cinnamon. 

Soak the gelatine in the pint of cold water an hour, 
then pour over it the quart of boiling water, stirring it 
well ; now add the wine, sugar, lemon juice (strained in 
a fine strainer), and the thinnest possible cuts from the 
peels of the lemons. These cuts take only the little 
globules of oil in the peel, which are exceedingly deli- 
cate in flavor, the white being bitter. Add, also, the 
small stick of cinnamon, as it adds much to the flavor 
of the jelly. Put this into a porcelain kettle; let it 
boil rapidly about a quarter of a minute without stirring 
it ; now, setting the kettle on the hearth, let it remain 
another half-minute to settle ; then skim off carefully 
the scum which is on the top, and pour it through the 
jelly-bag. It should be entirely clear ; if, however, the 
first should not be so, return it to the bag. Cold water 
should be poured into the moulds, then emptied just be- 
fore using. Jelly hardens much quicker on ice, or in 
the coolest place to be found. Dip the moulds into warm 
water a moment before taking out the jelly. If al- 
lowed to remain a moment too long the jelly might dis- 
solve too much and injure the form. 



Wine, Coffee, and Currant Jellies. 185 

Many kinds of wines and liquors may be used. The 
above receipt is well-proportioned for sherry, cham- 
pagne, madeira, or port. A smaller proportion of bran- 
dy, maraschino, noyau, or of punch would make suffi- 
cient flavoring. 

Wine Jelly (without cooking). 

Ingredients : one pint (two cnpfuls) of wine ; one pint 
of sugar; one pint of cold water; one pint of boiling 
water ; half a package of gelatine ; two lemons. 

Add the gelatine to the clear, cold water, and let it 
soak for an hour or more ; dissolve the sugar in the hot 
water, and when it is boiling stir it into the soaked gel- 
atine; add the strained lemon juice and the thin, yel- 
low cuts of the peel, and, when all is dissolved, the wine. 
Strain through a flannel cloth or bag or a napkin, with- 
out pressing it. If in a hurry for the gelatine, it will 
dissolve quicker if set in a warm place. In hot weather 
it is advisable to use a little more gelatine than in cold 
weather, or as in receipt. If brandy or rum is used, 
half the quantity mentioned for wine would be taken, 
or enough could be poured in to suit the taste. 

Coffee Jelly. 
Soak three quarters of a box of gelatine (either Cox's 
or Cooper's, or ten sheets of the common gelatine) in a 
pint of cold water until dissolved ; then add a pint of 
boiling water, two cupfuls of sugar, and one pint of 
clear, strong (so the chef said) coffee. But the coffee 
need not be so very strong. Mould it. Surround cof- 
fee jelly, when on the platter ready to be served, with 
whipped cream. 

CuKEANT Jelly. 
Pick out the leaves from the currants, but it is not 



186 Jellies and Preserms. 

necessary to be particular about all the stems. Mash the 
currants with a potato masher, and cook them enough to 
merely free the juice, without adding any water. Strain 
the juice, and allow one pound of sugar for one pound 
of juice. Boil the juice fifteen minutes after measur- 
ing it, and then take it from the fire, and add the sugar, 
allowing it to dissolve without further boiling or cook- 
ing of the juice. When the sugar is well dissolved and 
mixed in the juice, pour it into glasses. Fasten over 
the covers when the jelly has hardened. 

Currants should not be picked just after a rain. 

CUEEANT PeESEEVES. 

Allow one pound of sugar to one pound of currants. 
Free the currants from the stems, and cook them fifteen 
minutes ; then add the sugar and a few raisins, and, as 
soon as it comes to the boiling-point again, seal them 
tightly in glass jars. 

Oeange Maemalade. 

This marmalade furnishes one of the best and cheap- 
est comfitures which can be made in the large cities, and 
a very little of it, used for garnishing a blanc-mange, 
etc., or for spreading on bread-and-butter, is not un- 
wholesome for a convalescent. It is made in January 
or February, when oranges are cheap, and the expense 
will not be over fifteen or twenty cents a glass. 

Allow one lemon to six oranges. Quarter the skins, 
and boil them slowly two hours and a half ; then scrape 
out the soft pulp from the inside to be thrown away, and 
cut the outside skins into shreds. Squeeze all the juice 
possible from the fruit ; weigh the juice and skin shreds 
together, and allow three fourths of a pound of sugar 
to a pound of fruit. When the fruit and sugar are 
mixed, let them simmer for an hour. If one prefer, 



Strawberry Preserves. 187 

the whole pulp of the fruit may also be added. It does 
not make so. clear a preserve, yet it is added in the 
Dundee marmalade. 

Stkawberry Pkbserves. 
Allow three fourths of a pound of sugar to a pound of 
fruit. Let the sugar simmer twenty minutes, adding 
perhaps a tablespoonful of water to start it; then add 
the strawberries ; let them come merely to a boil ; then 
cover, and place them at the back of the range to steam 
1^YQ minutes. Put them into glass jars while still scald- 
ing hot, and seal them hermetically. 



PUDDINGS, ETC. 

Corn Cottage Pudding. 

Ingredients: One cupful of cornmeal flour; half a 
cupful of sugar ; one cupful of milk ; one tablespoonful 
of lard (size of small egg) ; three eggs ; one teaspoonf ul 
of baking-powder ; a little salt. 

Mix the baking-powder and salt well into the flour, 
then add the sugar and yolks of the eggs w^ell beaten to- 
gether), tlie lard (melted), and lastly the milk, and the 
whites of the eggs which have been beaten to a stiff 
froth. Mix this smoothly, pour it immediately into a 
buttered round tin basin and bake about twenty minutes. 
Take care to have the cake baked just in time to be 
served. It is to be eaten hot with a liquid sauce. The 
following is a simple one. 

Plain Pudding Sauce. 

Ingredients: One pint of water (two cupfuls); three 
fourths of a cupful of sugar; a piece of butter the size 
of a walnut; a tablespoonful of either cornstarch or 
flour ; flavoring of either brandy, rum, lemon, or wine 
(with or without a little nutmeg), or zest and cinnamon. 

When the water boils, stir in the cornstarch or flour 
(rubbed smooth with a little cold water) and also the sug- 
ar. Boil it well for four or five minutes, to thoroughly 
cook the cornstarch or flour. Take it then from the 
fire, and stir in the butter and flavoring. 

This is a good-enough plain sauce ; it is improved, 



Graham-flour Pudding. — Farina Pudding. 189 

however, by adding the well-beaten whites of one or 
two eggs, and stirring it well with the eg^ w^hisk for a 
minute over the fire to set the ^gg and make the sauce 
quite smooth. 

Geaham-floue Pudding. 

Ingredients : One and a half cupf uls of Graham flour ; 
half a cupful of molasses ; a fourth of a cupful of but- 
ter ; half a cupful of sweet milk ; one egg ; an even tea- 
spoonful of soda ; three quarters of a cupful of English 
currants, or raisins (or mixed). 

Into the flour pour the molasses, the butter partly 
melted, the egg (beaten), and the fruit. Mix all evenly 
together, then add the soda, dissolved in the milk. 
Steam two and a half or three hours. 

A double tin pail (see cut, p. 85) is best adapted for 
steaming. The water in it should be boiling when the 
pudding is first placed in it, and when it needs replen- 
ishing lolling water should be added, so that it should 
at no time stop boiling. Serve with plain sauce (see 
page 188). 

Fakina Pudding. 

Ingredients: One pint of milk; three quarters of a 
coffee-cupful of farina; half a cupful of sugar; butter 
the size of an egg ; the thin yellow cuts of the peel of 
a lemon ; four eggs. 

When the milk is just boiling add the farina, and af- 
ter it has cooked a few minutes stir in the sugar, lemon 
peel, and butter; let it cook slowly half an hour, then 
take it from the fire, and, when slightly cooled, stir in 
smoothly the yolks of two eggs. Take out the lemon 
strips. When the mixture is quite cold, stir in lightly 
the whites of the four eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, and 
put it in a high mould or long tin pail, prepared as 



190 Puddings, etc. 

follows : Butter the inside with a glazing brush, throw 
in a handful of sugar, and leave in the mould all tlie 
sugar that will stick to the sides ; tlien add the pudding 
and place the mould in a basin of water, the water 
reaching about half or three quarters to the top of the 
mould. Let it cook {au hain marie) on the top of the 
range for ten minutes ; then put all (basin of water as 
well) in the oven to bake for an hour. Serve immedi- 
ately with currant-jellj sauce or Sauce Burke (page 191). 

QuioGUE Pudding. 

Ingredients : Five of the ordinar}^ Boston soda crack- 
ers, or three fourths of a cupful when rolled ; a quarter 
of a cupful of flour; two eggs; a generous half cupful 
of milk. 

Roll the crackers, stir in the milk, then the flour, and 
eggs (beaten separately). Cover it tightly in a mould or 
small tin pail, and boil it half an hour in a large vessel 
of boiling water. Serve with a hard sauce of butter and 
sugar rubbed to a cream with nutmeg sprinkled over, 
or with Sauce Burke or a currant-jelly sauce. How- 
ever, any of the pudding sauces will answer. 

Macakoni Pudding 
is merely a baked custard pudding (page 180) with 
a quarter or half as much fresh, boiled macaroni added 
as there is custard. Of course the macaroni is added 
before the custard is baked. 

Fine Granulated- wheat Pudding. 

Ingredients: a scant half cupful of the wheat; one 
cupful of milk ; two eggs ; butter size of a small hickory 
nut ; pinch of salt. 

Bring the milk to a boil, then add the wheat and salt, 
and cook about five minutes. Take it from the fire, and 



Sauce Burke. — Swuce Gidllod. 191 

add the yolks (beaten) and the butter. Let it get quite 
cold, then add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth. Place it immediately in the oven, to cook about 
twenty minutes. 

In cooking all souffle puddings the oven should be 
hot, and for the first two or three minutes after the pud- 
ding is in, the oven-door should be slightly opened, so 
that the pudding can become evenly heated through, 
before it begins to rise. The pudding can be served 
with or without a sauce ; how^ever, a sauce is an im- 
provement, and the following might be selected. 

Sauce Bueke (a delicious pudding sauce). 
Bring a pint of milk to the boiling-point, and tlien 
stir in a generous teaspoon ful of cornstarch, previously 
rubbed smooth with a little of the cold milk ; add also 
a tablespoonful of sugar. Let it cook for two or three 
minutes to thoroughly cook the starch, and then let the 
mixture get entirely cold. Flavor it with sherry or any 
of the flavorings, and just before serving stir in evenly 
the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiif froth. As the 
Qg^ froth is not cooked, the sauce will not keep very 
long at its best, perhaps half an hour. 

Sauce Guillod. 
Wliip the whites of two eggs to a very stiff froth ; the 
froth of one ^gg should more than fill a goblet if 
properly whipped. In a small saucepan put two table- 
spoonfuls of granulated sugar, with two tablespoonfuls 
of water; let it cook without stirring for three or four 
minutes, or until it forms a syrup, not quite thick enough 
to candy. It must be w^atched carefully, then add the 
^gg froth, which stir in with an Qgg whip quite vigorous- 
ly for a minute at the side of the fire. Stirring will 
c:ive the froth a fine ccrain. Take it from the rantre 



192 PuddingSy etc, 

and add enough fresh lemon juice to take away the ex- 
cessive sweetness of the meririgue. 

Othek Souffle or Puffed Puddings. 
The last-named pudding (fine granulated wheat) can 
be made as w^ell with rice, farina, granulated oats, gran- 
ulated barley, etc. It is especially good made with 
crushed barley. The barley must be well boiled in 
water (twenty minutes) before it is added to the milk, 

etc. 

Barley Pudding (simple). 

Ingredients : Two cupf uls hot milk ; half cupful of 
barley ; one tablespoonf ul sugar ; a pinch of salt. Into 
the pint of hot milk stir the barley. Season with a 
pinch of salt; add a tablespoonf ul of sugar, and place 
it in the oven for about twenty minutes; stir it oc- 
casionally until the barley is swelled, then add half a 
cupful of extra hot milk and let it bake slowly for an 
hour. 

Orange Puddings a la Mutreux. 

Soak a cupful of stale bread in half a cupful of milk 
until it can be beaten to a pulp ; mix with it the grated 
rind of one orange, the juice of two, sugar to taste, and 
the yolks of two raw eggs ; butter six small cups, and 
set them in a pan of hot water ; then beat the whites of 
two eggs to a stiff froth, mix them lightly with the 
other ingredients, partly fill the cups, and bake the pud- 
dings until the e^g is done, in a moderate oven : about 
fifteen or twenty minutes will be required; serve the 
puddings hot. 

Lemon (health-food) Pie or Pudding. 
For two pics, rub until smooth two heaping table- 
spoonfuls of granulated wheat or barley and one table- 
spoonful of cornstarch (a scant three quarters of a cup- 



Graham Sponge Cake. 193 

ful all together) with six tablespoonf iils (a scant Iialf cup- 
ful) of cold water. Add to this two cupfuls of boiling 
water, and let it sitnrner over the fire three or four min- 
utes, until the flour is thoroughly cooked. Take it off 
the fire, and when partly cooled add the yolks of three 
eggs, beaten with one and a half cupfuls of sugar to a 
froth, a piece of butter the size of a black-walnut, and the 
grated rind and juice of a large lemon. Bake with un- 
der crusts, and when done spread over the top the beat- 
en whites of three eggs, with a heaping teaspoonful of 
sugar added (after they are beaten), and color in the 
oven. 

The pie is much more attractive if the meringue is 
put on in fancy design, with a paper funnel (made of 
thick writing-paper and a pin) or the meringue deco- 
rator. The G2^g froth should be slightly sweetened, and 
flavored by stirring in the yellow cuts of lemon peel, 
which are afterwards removed. The lemon peel gives 
delicate flavor as well as color to the meringue. 

The pie-paste can be made more wholesome by using 
very little lard or butter and a small portion of baking- 
powder. Or, the paste may be made with half Graham 
flour (sifted) and half white flour, a little baking-pow- 
der, and mixed with cream. The crust may be rubbed 
over with a little of the beaten white of an e^g before 
the custard is added, which will prevent it from soaking 
into the crust. The custard may be baked in a little 
pudding dish without pie crust. 

Graham Sponge Cake. 
Ingredients: six eggs; three cupfuls sugar ; four cup- 
fuls flour (sifted Graham flour recommended) ; one cup- 
ful of cold w^ater; two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder; 
juice and grated rind of half a lemon ; a little salt. 
Mix the yeast powder and salt well into the flour, 
9 



194 Puddings^ etc. 

sifting it once or twice ; stir the yolks and sugar to a 
froth ; add first to the flonr, etc., the yolks and sugar, 
and then the egg whites (beaten to a stiff froth), and 
then the lemon and water. The materials should be all 
ready, viz., the pans buttered, the flour and sugar sift- 
ed, the lemon grated, strained, etc., so that no time will 
be lost in mixing them together and getting them quick- 
ly into the oven. 

For robust persons a sponge cake is often covered 
with a wafer thickness of icing, made by stirring a heap- 
ing cupful of pulverized sugar into the white of an agg 
(not previously beaten), and flavored with lemon, va- 
nilla, or rum, etc. 



BILLS OF FARE FOR CONVALESCENTS. 

The following bills of fare are given for the purpose 
of suggestion, although the diet is a hearty one and only- 
calculated for patients taking a certain amount of exer- 
cise and requiring a generous diet. 

An invalid confined to the bed should be satisfied 
with very little sweets, and a breakfast or tea consisting 
only of an oatmeal or farina porridge and cream, cracked 
wheat and cream, a slice of Boston brown bread, or toast- 
ed Graham bread and cream, cornmeal mush and milk, 
rice and milk, poached e^g or raw egg, a plain dish of 
macaroni, a cream soup, any of the gruels, a custard with 
Graham bread, a souffle pudding of barley, granulated 
wheat, Graham flour, etc., any of the rice dishes, or 
other single dish as simple and nutritious as these, with 
a simple accompaniment of bread and apple sauce, or 
fruit compote, and a cup of hot water, grape juice, or 
fresh koumiss for a beverage. 

Breakfast (at 8 o'clock). 

Cracked Wheat Mould and Cream, 

Bread Sippets, 

Cup Hot Water with Sugar and Cream (better than tea or 

coffee.) 

Dinner (at 1 or 2 o'clock). 

A Slice of Rare Roast Beef, or Broiled Beefsteak, 

A Baked Potato, Apple Sauce, 

A Chocolate Custard. 



196 Bills of Fare, 

Tea (at 6 o'clock). 
Kice Cone with Hot Sauce, 
Graham Bread, Grape Juice. 



Breakfast. 

A Slice of Boston Brown Bread with Cream poured over, 

A Poached Egg on Toast, 

Cup of Hot AVater. 

Dinner. 

A Fricassee of Chicken, Potatoes a la Creme, 

Lettuce dressed with the Sauce of the Fricassee and a few 

drops of Vinegar, 

Graham-flour Pudding, Sauce Burke. 

Tea. 

A Small Dish of Macaroni and Tomato Sauce, 
A Pear Compote. 



Breakfast. 
Oatmeal Porridge, 
Oysters on Toast, 
Cup of Chocolate. 

Dinner. 

A Lamb or Mutton Chop with Mashed Potatoes, 

Spinach on Toast, 

Macaroni Padding. 

Tea. 
Cornmeal Mush and Milk. 



Breakfast. 

A Chicken Croquette with Pease around. 

Milk Toast of Graham Bread, 

Cup of IJot Water. 



Bills of Fare, 197 

Dinner. 

Cream of Asparagus, or Rice, Barley, etc., 

Boiled Fish, Carrots a la Creme, 

Baked Potatoe, a Banana, Grape Juice. 

Tea. 

Barley Pudding, Sauce Burke, 
Cup of Hot Water. 



Breakfast. 

A Sweetbread with Rice around. Cream Sauce, 

Oatmeal Porridge. 

Dinner. 

Boiled Chicken and Macaroni, 

Stewed Corn, 

Farina Pudding. 

Tea. 

Hard Graham Rolls, 

Grape Juice, 

Custard a la 3Iorrison. 



Breakfast. 

Boiled Eggs, 

Baked Apple and Cream. 

Corn Bread. 

Dinner. 

A Breast of Prairie Chicken, Mashed Potatoes, 

Stuffed Tomatoes,* 

Corn Cottage Pudding. 

Tea. 

Cracked Wheat and Cream. 



198 Bills of Fare. 

Breakfast. 

Farina Porridge, Fried Mush and Sugar Syrup, 

Fruit Compote. 

Dinner. 

Slice of Roast Mutton, Salad, 

Potatoes a la Neige^ 

Rice Souffle (Pudding a la Guillod). 

Tea. 

Cup of Chocolate, 

Granulated Wheat Pudding, 

Stewed Prunes. 



Breakfast. 

Raw Egg (whipped), 

Cornmeal Pancakes, Sugar Syrup, 

Sweet Oranges Sliced. 

Dinner. 
Clear Soup with Bread Dice, 
Fried Spring Chicken with a surrounding of Rice or Cauli- 
flower and Cream Sauce, String-beans, 
Rice a la Imioeratrice. 

Tea. 

Macaroni Croquettes, Tomato Sauce, 

Graham Bread, 

Grape Juice. 



APPENDIX. 



Extract from an Article on the Effects of Tea and Coffee on 

the Si/stem J also on Count Rumford's Substitute for Tea, 

by M. Mattieu Williams. 

(Published iu Knowledge; republished iu The Popular Science Monthly of De- 
cember, 18S4.) 

"Take eight parts by weight (say ounces) of meal (Rum- 
ford says 'wheat or rye meal,' and I add, or oatmeal), and one 
part of butter. Melt the butter in a clean iron frying-pan, 
and when thus melted sprinkle the meal into it ; stir the whole 
briskly with a broad wooden spoon or spatula till the butter 
has disappeared and the meal is of a uniform brown color like 
roasted coffee, great care being taken to prevent burning on 
the bottom of the pan. About half an ounce of this roasted 
meal, boiled in a pint of water, and seasoned with salt, pepper, 
and vinegar, forms ' burned soup,' much used by the wood- 
cutters of Bavaria, who work in the mountains far away from 
any habitations. . . . The rye bread, which eaten alone or with 
cold water would be very hard fare, is rendered palatable and 
satisfactory, Count Rumford thinks also more wholesome and 
nutritious, by the help of a bowl of hot soup, so easily prepared 
from the roasted meal. He tells us that this is not only used 
by the wood-cutters, but that it is also the common breakfast 
of the Bavarian peasant, and adds that ' it is infinitely prefer- 
able, in all respects, to that most pernicious wash, tea, with 
which the lower classes of the inhabitants of Great Britain 
drench their stomachs and ruin their constitutions.' He adds 
that, ' when tea is taken with a sufficient quantity of sugar and 
good cream, and with a large quantity of bread-and-butter, 
or with toast and boiled eggs, and, above all, ivhen it is not 



200 Appendix. 

drunk too hot, it is certainly less unwholesome ; but a simple in- 
fusion of this drug, drunk boiling hot, as the poor usually take 
it, is certainly a poison, which, though it is sometimes slow in 
its operation, never fails to produce fatal effects, even in the 
strongest constitutions, where the free use of it is continued for 
a considerable length of time." 

"This may appear to mauy a very strong condemnation of 
their favorite beverage ; nevertheless, I am satisfied that it is 
perfectly sound. This is not an opinion hastily adopted, but 
a conclusion based upon many observations, extending over a 
long period of years, and confirmed by experiments made upon 
myself. 

" The Pall Mall Gazette of August 7th says : ' There is balm 
for tea -drinkers in one of Mr. Mattieu Williams's "Science 
Notes" in the GentlemarCs Magazine.'' This is true to a cer- 
tain extent. I referred to the Chinese as habitual drinkers 
of boiled water, and suggest that this may explain their com- 
parative immunity from cholera, where all the other conditions 
for a raging epidemic are fulfilled. It is the boiling of the 
water, not the infusion of tea-leaves therein, to which I attrib- 
ute the destruction of the germs of infection. 

" In the note which follows, I proposed an infusion of fried or 
toasted bread crumbs, oatmeal, maize,»wheat, barley, malt, etc., as 
a substitute for the tea, the deep color of the infusion (poured 
off from the grounds in this case) serving to certify the boiling 
of the water. Rumford's burned soup, taken habitually at 
breakfast or other meals, would answer the same purpose, with 
the futher advantage to poor people of being, to a certain ex- 
tent, a nutritious soup as well as a beverage. All that is nutri- 
tious in porter is in this, minus the alcoholic drug and its vile 
companion, the fusel-oil. 

" The experience of every confirmed tea-drinker, when sound- 
ly interpreted, supplies condemnation of the beverage; the 
plea commonly and blindly urged on its behalf being, when 
understood, an eloquent expression of such condemnation. 
* It is so refreshing ;' * I am fit for nothing when tea-time 
comes round until I have had my tea, and then I am fit for 



Ajppendix. 201 

anything.' The ' fit-for-nothing ' state comes on at five p. m,, 
when the drug is taken at the orthodox time, or even in the 
early morning, in the case of those who are accustomed to 
have a cup of tea brought to their bedside before rising. With 
blindness still more profound, some will plead for tea by tell- 
ing that by its aid one can sit up all night long at brain-work 
without feeling sleepy, provided ample supplies of the infusion 
are taken from time to time. 

*' It is unquestionably true that such may be done ; that the 
tea-drinker is languid and weary at tea-time, whatever be the 
hour, and that the refreshment produced by 'the cup that 
cheers ' and is said not to inebriate, is almost instantaneous. 

" What is the true significance of these facts? 

" The refreshment is certainly not due to nutrition, not to the 
rebuilding of any worn-out or exhausted organic tissue. The 
total quantity of material conveyed from the tea-leaves into 
the water is ridiculously too small for the performance of any 
such nutritive function ; and, besides this, the action is far too 
rapid, there is not sufficient time for the conversion of even 
that minute quantity into organized working tissue. The ac- 
tion cannot be that of a food, but is purely and simply that of 
a stimulating or irritant drug, acting directly and abnormally 
on the nervous system. 

"The five-o'clock lassitude and craving are neither more nor 
less than the reaction induced by the habitual abnormal stimula- 
tion ; or otherwise, and quite fairly, stated, it is the outward 
symptom of a diseased condition of brain produced by the ac- 
tion of a drug ; it may be but a mild form of disease, but it is 
truly a disease nevertheless. 

" The active principle which produces this result is the crys- 
talline alkaloid, the theine, a compound belonging to the same 
class as strychnine and a number of similar vegetable poisons. 
These, when diluted, act medicinally, that is, produce disturb- 
ance of normal functions as the tea does, and, like theine, most 
of them act specially on the nervous system ; when concen- 
trated they are dreadful poisons, very small doses producing 
death. 



202 Appendix. 

" The non-tea-drinker does not suffer any of these five-o'clock 
symptoms, and, if otherwise in sound health, remains in steady 
working condition until his day's work is ended and the time 
for rest and sleep arrives. But the habitual victim of any kind 
of drug or disturber of normal functions acquires a diseased 
condition, displayed by the loss of vitality or other deviation 
from normal condition, which is temporarily relieved by the 
usual dose of the drug, but only in such wise as to generate a 
renewed craving. I include in this general statement all the 
vice-drugs (to coin a general name), such as alcohol, opium, 
tobacco (whether smoked, chewed, or snuffed), arsenic, hashish, 
betel-nut, coca-leaf, thorn-apple, Siberian fungus, mate, etc., all 
of which are excessively 'refreshing' to their victims, and of 
which the use may be, and has been, defended by the same argu- 
ments as those used by the advocates of habitual tea-drink- 
ing. 

" Speaking generally, the reaction or residual effect of these 
on the system is nearly the opposite of that of their immediate 
effect, and thus larger and larger doses are demanded to bring 
the system to its normal condition. The non-tea-drinker, or 
moderate drinker, is kept awake by a cup of tea or coffee taken 
late at night, while the hard drinker of these beverages scarce- 
ly feels any effect, especially if accustomed to take it at that 
time. 

" The practice of taking tea or coffee by students, in order to 
work at night, is downright madness, especially when preparing 
for an examination. More than half of the cases of break- 
down, loss of memory, fainting, etc., which occur during severe 
examinations, and far more frequently than is commonly known, 
are due to this. 

"I frequently hear of promising students who have thus 
failed ; and, on inquiry, have learned — in almost every instance 
— that the victim has previously drugged himself with tea or 
coffee. Sleep is the rest of the brain ; to rob the hard-worked 
brain of its necessary rest is cerebral suicide. 

" My old friend, the late Thomas Wright, was a victim of this 
terrible folly. lie undertook the translation of the ' Life of 



Appendix. 203 

Julius Caesar,' by Napoleon III., and to do it in a cruelly short 
time. He fulfilled his contract by sitting up several nights 
successively by the aid of strong tea or coffee (I forget which). 
I saw him shortly afterwards. In a few weeks he had aged 
alarmingly, and had become quite bald ; his brain gave way and 
never recovered. There was but little difference between his 
age and mine, and bnt for this dreadful cerebral strain, rendered 
possible only by the alkaloid (for otherwise he would have 
fallen to sleep over his work, and thereby saved his life), he 
might still be amusing and instructing thousands of readers by 
fresh volumes of popularized archaeological research. 

*' I need scarcely add that all I have said above ap})lics to cof- 
fee as to tea, though not so seriously in this country [li^ngland]. 
The active alkaloid is the same in both, but tea contains, weight 
for weight, about three times as much as coffee. In this country 
we commonly use about fifty per cent, more coffee than tea to 
each given measure of water, and thus get about half as much 
alkaloid. On the Continent they use about double our quan- 
tity (this is the true secret of 'coffee as in France'), and thus 
produce as potent an infusion as our tea. 

" The above remarks are exclusively applied to the habitual 
use of these stimulants. As medicines, used occasionally and 
judiciously, they are invaluable, provided always that they are 
not used as ordinary beverages. In Italy, Greece, and some 
parts of the East, it is customary, when anybody feels ill, with 
indefinite symptoms, to send to the druggist for a dose of tea. 
From what I have seen of its action on non-tea-drinkers, it ap- 
pears to be specially potent in arresting the premonitory symp- 
toms of fever, the fever-headache, etc. 

" It is strange that any physiologist should claim this dimi- 
nution of the normal waste and renewal of tissue as a merit, 
seeing that life itself is the product of such a change, and death 
the result of its cessation. But, in the eagerness that has been 
displayed to justify existing indulgences, this claim has been 
extensively made by men who ought to know better than admit 
such a plea. 

" I speak, of course, of the habitual use of such drugs, not of 



204 Apjpendix. 

their occasional medicinal use. The waste of the body may be 
going on with killing rapidity, as in fever, and then such med- 
icines may save life, provided always that the body has not 
become ' tolerant ' of or partially insensible to them by daily 
usage. I once watched a dangerous case of typhoid fever. 
Acting under the instructions of skilful medical attendants, and 
aided by a clinical thermometer and a seconds- watch, I so ap- 
plied small doses of brandy at short intervals as to keep dov/n 
both pulse and temperature within the limits of fatal combus- 
tion. The patient had scarcely tasted alcohol before this, and 
therefore it exerted its maximum efficacyo I was surprised at 
the certain response of both pulse and temperature to this most 
valuable medicine and most pernicious beverage. 

" The argument that has been the most industriously urged in 
favor of all the vice-drugs, and each in its turn, is that misera- 
ble apology that has been made for every folly, every vice, ev- 
ery political abuse, every social crime (such as slavery, polyga- 
my, etc.), when the time has arrived for reformation. I cannot 
condescend to seriously argue against it, but merely state the 
fact that the widely diffused practice of using some kind of 
stimulating drug has been claimed as a sufficient proof "of the 
necessity or advantage of such practice. I leave my readers to 
bestow on such a plea the treatment they may think it deserves. 
Those who believe that a rational being should have rational 
grounds for his conduct will treat this customary refuge of blind 
conservatism as I do." 

Mr. Williams, in his article, proceeds to give the views of 
certain scientists who have defended the use of the alkaloids. 
He speaks of Liebig's, or rather Nehmen's, theory, which was 
that the use of tea and coffee retarded the waste of the tissues 
of the body; also Johnston's theory, "Chemistry of Common 
Life," that if waste be lessened by the use of tea, less food is 
required. 

Mr. Williams says, regarding these theories : "All the popu- 
lar stimulants and refreshing drugs have two distinct and op- 
posite actions ; an immediate exaltation, which lasts for a cer- 
tain period, varying vwith the drug and the constitution of its 



Appendix. 205 

victim, and a subsequent depression proportionate to the primary 
exaltation, but, as I believe, always exceeding it either in dura- 
tion or intensity, or both, thus giving as a net or mean result a 
loss of vitality." 



RemarTcs on the Influence of Alcoholic Liquors, hy Professor 
Edward L. Voumans, in " Household Science,^^ and others. 

" Stimulating Effect of Alcoholic Beverages. — They 
produce general stimulation ; the heart's action is increased, 
the circulation quickened, the secretions augmented, the system 
glows with unusual warmth, and there is a general heightening 
of the functions. Organs usually below par from debility are 
brought up to the normal tone, while those which are strong 
and healthy are raised above it. Thus the stomach, if feeble, 
for example, from deficient gastric secretion, may be aided to 
pour out a more copious solvent, which promotes digestion ; 
or, if it be in full health, it may thus be made to digest more 
than the body requires. The life of the system is exalted above 
its standard ; which takes place, not by conferring additional 
vitality, but by plying the nervous system with a fiery irritant, 
which provokes the vital functions to a higher rate of action. 
This is the secret of the fatal fascination of alcohol, and the 
source of its evil. The excitement it produces is transient, and 
is followed by a corresponding depression and dragging of all 
the bodily movements. It enables us to live at an accelerated 
speed to-day, but it is only plundering to-morrow. By its 
means we crowd into a short period of intense exhilaration the 
feelings, emotions, thoughts, and experiences which the Author 
of our nature designed should be distributed more equally 
through the passing time. We cannot doubt that God has 
graduated the flow of these life-currents in accordance with 
the profoundest harmonies of being and the highest results of 
beneficence. By habitually resorting to this potent stimulant 
man violates the providential order of his constitution, loses 
the voluntary regulation and control of his conduct, inaugu- 
rates the reign of appetite and passion, and reaps the penal 



206 Appendix. 

consequences in mnltiform suffering and sorrow — for Nature 
always vindicates herself at last." 

Prof. Youmans also says, in answer to the question, Is the 
use of alcohol physiologically economical? "The apologists 
for the genei'al and moderate use of alcoholic beverages cannot 
agree among themselves upon any philosophy to suit the case. 
Dr. Moleshott says, 'Alcohol may be considered a savings-box 
of the tissues. He who eats little, and drinks a moderate quan- 
tity of spirits, retains as much in tlie blood and tissues as a per- 
son who eats proportionally more without drinking any beer, 
wine, or spirits. Clearly, then, it is hard to rob the laborer, 
who, in the sweat of his brow, eats but a slender meal, of a 
means by which his deficient food is made to last him a longer 
time.' Upon which Dr. Chambers justly remarks, 'This is go- 
ing rather too far. When alcohol limits the consumption of 
tissue, and so the requirements of the system, while at the same 
time a man goes on working, it is right to inquire, whence 
comes his new strength ? It is supplied by something which 
is not decomposition of tissue ; by what, then ? Dr. Licbig 
points out the consequences of that peculiar economy by which 
the laboring man saves his tissue and the food necessary to re- 
pair it by the use of liquors : ' Spirits, by their action on the 
nerves, enable the laborer to make up for deficient power (from 
insuflScient food) at the expense of his body ; to consume to-day 
that quantity which ought naturally to have been employed a 
day later. He draws, so to speak, a bill on his health which 
must be always renewed, because, for want of means, he can- 
not take it up ; he consumes his capital instead of his interest, 
and the result is the inevitable bankruptcy of his body.' 

"Dr. Moleshott further says, ' When, by habit, the stimulant 
has become a necessity, an enervating relaxation infallibly fol- 
lows, as is sometimes mournfully illustrated by less prudent lit- 
erary men. The stimulant ceases to excite ; the debilitated or- 
gans have already been indebted to it for all the activity it can 
give. In this case the victim continues to seek his refuge until 
dangerous diseases of the stomach cripple the digestive or- 
gans, the formation of blood and nutrition are disturbed ; and, 



Appendix. 207 

with the digestion, vanish clearness of thought, acuteness of the 

senses, and the elasticity of the muscles.' " 



Tendency of Common Wheat Flour to Produce Bright'' s Disease, 
Diabetes, etc. 
It is claimed by the health-food manufacturers that "the 
starch portion of wheat may be compared to the fat of 
meat, and the gluten portion to the lean meat. This compar- 
ison is not wanting in scientific accuracy, inasmuch as starch 
is carbon and fat is carbon, while animal albumen and gluten, 
or vegetable albumen, are nearly identical nitrogenous substan- 
ces. If, then, we were to attempt to exist upon the fat, or car- 
bon, to the exclusion of the lean, or nitrogen, of meat, we 
should presently discern, by our waning bodily and mental 
vigor, that we were very imperfectly nourished. The same 
lack of vital force comes from an excessive use of the vegeta- 
ble carbons. The disuse of the fat of grain — the starch — de- 
mands more earnest consideration from the physiologist, be- 
cause the refined taste instinctively shrinks from the copious 
use of animal fats, while education, custom, habit, all encourage 
the increasing and unlimited use of the starch form of carbon. 
It is not claimed that our ordinary bread-flour is as pure a car- 
bon, as free from nitrogen, as the clear f.it of meat. The ordi- 
nary milling processes cannot exclude all the nitrogenous ele- 
ments from the white flour ; that they do withhold the greater 
part, as well as all but the merest trace of the organized min- 
eral constituents, is a simplo chemical fact. We know that the 
gluten contains phosphorus ... we know that the starch con- 
tains no phosphorus. We know that the starch-interior of the 
wheat-berry is nearly barren of minerals, containing consider- 
ably less than one half of one per cent., while the gluten is 
found to contain over eleven per cent. The mineral matter is 
nearly half phosphoric acid, nearly one third potassa, more than 
one tenth magnesia, with smaller proportions of soda, lime, 
iron, chloride of sodium, sulphuric acid, and silica. These ele- 
ments are all demanded in the blood-making processes. ... In 



208 Appendix. 

the use of starch-bread the stomacli is greatly overtaxed in its 
effort to digest an immense amount of starch, containing an 
insignificant portion of nitrogenous and mineral elements. The 
use of starch in excess is the rule in America. If assimilated, 
it is very liable to induce fatty degeneration of the tissues, and 
such diseases as depend upon this state. Atheroma of the 
cerebral arteries, with the attendant fat-globules, the weakened 
muscular coats, and the tendency to rpptnre and apoplexy, are 
all concomitants of the starchy diathesis. The essential feature 
of Bright's disease is fatty infiltration of the kidneys; while 
diabetes finds its chief allies in bread and potatoes. These 
formidable diseases may be guarded against by appropriate ali- 
mentary substances containing the needed proportions of all 
nutritive elements. 

But starch undigested is nearly as potent for evil as starch 
digested. The liver, burdened with white bread and potatoes, 
seems presently to be deprived of its power, etc. 



Koumiss. 
In the Medical Record is an article by Dr. E. F. Brush, of 
New York, in v^'hich he says : " Historically the study of kou- 
miss is very interesting. Homer speaks of the koumiss-mak- 
ing Hippomolgi ; Herodotus tells us that the Scythians de- 
prived their slaves of sight in order to keep secret the process 
of making a drink from mares' milk. . . . Marco Polo, the 
great Venetian traveller, writing a few years later, speaks of 
koumiss as a common drink, wholesome, nutritious, and posses- 
sing important medical properties. . . . Pallas, who was sent 
by the Empress Catherine 11. to visit the less-known portions 
of her dominions, gave considerable attention to the question 
of koumiss. Speaking of the Tartar tribes, he says: 'Their 
wealth consists in herds of mares, the milk of which cannot be 
manufactured into cheese or butter, and which, owing to the 
large quantity of sugar it contains, ferments spontaneously. 
This they undoubtedly discovered by attempting to preserve 
the milk for a day or two in skin bags. From this step, it is a 



Appendix. 209 

short one to discover that the longer it was kept the more 
pleasant it became.' Mrs. Guthrie, who visited the Crimea in 
1795, writes: 'On stopping at a village the hospitable Tartars 
brought us a wooden dish of their favorite koumiss. The kou- 
miss has a sourish-sweet taste, by no means unpleasant to my 
palate.' Pallas tells us that he met a horde of Tartars who 
possessed the secret of turning cows' milk into vinous fermenta- 
tion, or, in other words, into koumiss. Atkinson, in his ' Ori- 
ental and Western Siberia,' writes: 'On entering a Kirghis 
yourt in summer, a Chinese bowl holding three pints of kou- 
miss is presented to each gtiest. It is considered impolite to 
return the vessel before emptying it, and a good Kirghis is 
never guilty of this impropriety. They begin to make koumiss 
in April. The mares are milked into large leathern pails, 
which are immediately taken into the yourt, and the milk 
poured into the koumiss bag. The first fourteen days after 
they begin making this beverage very little of it is drank, but, 
with fermentation and agitation, it is considered by this time 
in perfection, when it is drank in great quantities by the 
wealthy Kirghis.' 

"In an official report to the Russian government in 1840, 
Dr. Dahl, after describing the method of manufacturing koumiss, 
continues: ' Peculiar as is the taste of koumiss, one soon becomes 
accustomed to it, especially if one tastes it for the first time 
when thirsty, or after violent exercise. It is then the most 
pleasant and refreshing of all drinks. ... It is very refreshing 
and hunger-stilling, without being surfeiting. It only allays 
hunger without destroying the appetite. One can, without any 
fear, drink as much as he will — an inconceivable amount — and 
yet always feel light and well. If one were to drink half the 
quantity of water, beer, or anything else, especially during the 
burning heat when one is forced to be on horseback, one would 
feel over full and heavy. But every cup of koumiss gives new 
courage and strength. An intoxication such as is produced by- 
wine never takes place after drinking koumiss, in whatever 
quantities you may ; the result is a scarcely noticeable exhilara- 
tion, and this only when it is taken in very considerable quanti- 



210 Appendix. 

tics, or in delicate persons, when it produces an inclination to 
a refreshino- sleep. . . . Koumiss is, among the nomads, the 
drink of all children from the suckling upward, the refreshment 
of the old and sick, the nourishment and greatest luxury of 
every one. The effect of koumiss shows itself in less than a 
week in a good nourishment of the whole body, an increase in 
strength and spirits, and a general feeling of health. The 
respiration is easier, the voice freer, the complexion brighter. 
. . . The diseases in which koumiss is beneficial are those 
where the body must be well nourished without loading the 
digestive organs. It seems too, that koumiss is specially use- 
ful in diseases of the lungs, bronchia, and larynx ; I will not 
assert that it can cure consumption and phthisis, but it suits 
these conditions better than any other nourishment. It is cer- 
tain that among the Kirghis consumption and phthisis arc very 
rare — so, too pneumonia, senile asthma, and dropsy of the chest. 
Of tubercular consumption, and other phthisis, I have seen no 
example among the Kirghis.' 

"Dr. Neftel, who, twenty-three years after the visit of Dr. 
Dahl, was also sent by the Russian government to the Kirghis 
Steppe, confirms the observations of his predecessor. ' Scrof- 
ulosis and rachitis are quite unknown among them ; and, what 
is still more remarkable, I had opportunity to observe not one 
single case of lung tuberculosis although I sought for such 
cases with great attention.' To avoid repetition, I will simply 
cite one case given by Dr. Neftel relating to koumiss treatment. 
*The patient, twenty-five years old, had always lived in St. 
Petersburg. Her physician there, a distinguished diagnostician, 
found tubercular infiltrations in both superior lobes of the lungs. 
During two years she coughed continually, with a rauco-prurient 
expectoration often tinged with blood, and she became very 
emaciated. All other physicians consulted by the patient con- 
firmed this diagnosis. . . . The presence of cavities was clear- 
ly demonstrated, and a hectic fever set in. In this condition 
the patient, by my advice, left the city, passed the whole sum- 
mer in the steppe, in a kibitka, and was methodically treated 
with koumiss. Ecr general condition gradually improved ; she 



Appendix. 211 

returned to the city in the autumn, and the ensuing spring she 
again commenced the koumiss treatment, and I have hitely re- 
ceived here at Wtirzburg a letter from her husband, in which 
he informs me that his wife is completely cured, and coughs 
no longer.' " 

Dr. Brush further adds that a recent article on koumiss has 
been written by Dr. Campbell, of Mount Vernon, N. Y., in the 
American Journal of Obstetrics^ Oct., 1880. His observations 
are limited to the study of koumiss in cholera infantum. lie 
reasons as follows : " In a severe case of choleraic diarrhoea we 
derive but little aid from medication, the primary cause of the 
disorder being the food put into the child's stomach. These 
cases occur almost exclusively among fed children. Our aim 
is chiefly directed to finding something on which the infant 
can be nourished and which will not increase the trouble al- 
ready existing. In koumiss we have a food which children 
with high temperature not only take kindly, but crave, its 
slightly acid taste being grateful to their parched tongues. It 
is an absolutely non-putrefactive food, is free from sugar, and 
is rarely ejected even by the most irritable stomach. ... I can 
say of it that it has never failed me in any case of cholera in- 
fantum, except where well-marked brain symptoms already ex- 
isted, before it was administered, to such a degree as to pre- 
clude the possibility of a recovery. Even in these cases it is 
an advantage, for we are giving a food which will not be vom- 
ited, and which will satisfy thirst." 

As a food for diabetics the author would refer to page 10. 

Remarks hy Dr. T. Griswold ComstocJc on the Use of Koumiss : 
"Regarding koumiss, from a large experience in its use dur- 
ing the past nine years, I can recommend it with the greatest 
confidence. It fills a desideratum which the medical practi- 
tioner has long desired. One fact bearing upon its nutritious 
value should be borne in mind: one joint of it contains more 
than two ounces of solid food, so that it is especially indicated 
in constitutional diseases or systemic affections. According 
to the most recent authorities it is regarded by practitioners 



212 Appendix. 

as acting in cold weather as a diuretic, and in warm weather 
as a diaphoretic. From these physiological standpoints we 
can prescribe it rationally in a variety of ailments. It is valu- 
able in pulmonary catarrh, in pulmonary tuberculosis, in chronic 
diarrhoea, in diabetes, in Bright's disease, in diphtheria, in the 
paralysis the sequel of diphtheria, in summer complaint, in the 
chronic intestinal and gastric catarrhs of children or adults, 
and especially in dyspepsia and flatulence. It will be found 
peculiarly beneficial in cases of incurable disease, such as can- 
cer. I have prescribed it in pernicious anaemia, puerperal 
anaemia, in typhoid fever, in puerperal fever; in fact, in almost 
any affection attended with emaciation. At first it may be given 
in small quantities, and gradually the ration may be increased 
until it constitutes the sole food of the patient. As it is in 
reality a wine-milk, or rather a champagne-milk, it acts some- 
thing like an alcoholic stimulant, and most patients feel revived 
at once after taking it. It is especially indicated for the in- 
firmities of old age, in cases of palsy, paralysis, impending or 
real mental affections, etc. 



From Dr. Roberts's Book, ^''The Digestive Ferments^ 
" My own efforts to produce a palatable peptonized food 
have been chiefly directed to the pancreatic method. The 
pancreas excels the stomach as a digestive organ, in that it has 
the power to digest the two great alimentary principles, starch 
and proteids ; and an extract of the gland is possessed of sim- 
ilar properties. . . . My attention was first turned to the 
artificial digestion of milk . . . Milk contains all the elements 
of a perfect food, adjusted in their due proportions for the 
nutrition of the body. Two out of three of its organic con- 
stituents — namely, the sugar and the fat — exist already in the 
most favorable condition for absorption, and require little, if 
any, assistance from the digestive ferments. It is therefore 
obvious that if we could change the caseine of milk into 
peptone without materially altering the flavor and appearance 
of the milk, such a result would go far towards solving the 



Appendix. 213 

problem of supplying an artificially digested food for the use 
of the sick." 

Peptonized Milk Gruel. — Dr. Roberts farther says : " This is 
the preparation of which I have had the most experience, and 
with which I have obtained the most satisfactory results. It 
may be regarded as an artificially digested bread-and-milk, and 
as forming by itself a complete and highly nutritious food for 
weak digestion. ... I find, however, that some persons fail to 
peptonize milk gruel so as to make it palatable. This is en- 
tirely due to allowing the peptonizing process to go on too 
far. Artificial digestion, like cooking, must be regulated as to 
its degree. If the liquor pancreaticus is very active, the slight 
bitterness, whereby it is known that the process has been car- 
ried far enough, is developed in an hour or less, but if the 
preparation is not so active, two or three hours may be re- 
quired to rcacli the same point. The practical rule for guid- 
ance is to allov/ the process to go on until a perceptible bitter- 
ness is developed, and not longer. The milk gruel should be 
raised to the boiling-point to put a stop to further changes." 

Pancreatic Emulsion of Fats. — Dr. Dobell, in his work 
on " Loss of Weight, Blood-spitting, and Lung Disease," says : 
" Oil when it agrees and passes into the blood does not com- 
pletely represent the solid fats of the natural food, and cannot 
therefore permanently take their place. As a temporary sub- 
stitute for natural fat it answers admirably, but sooner or later, 
in some cases very soon indeed, the portal system becomes 
choked and refuses to absorb more oil ; the oil disagrees with 
the stomach, it rises, spoils the appetite, and thus not only 
ceases to do good, but does positive harm, by preventing the 
patient from taking as mucli food as the stomach might other- 
wise call for and digest. None of these disadvantages occur 
witli well-made pancreatic emulsions of solid fat. The con- 
sequence is that an artificial supply of natural fat by the nat- 
ural route can be kept up for an indefinite time if required, 
while the appetite is usually improved and the digestion also ; 



214 A'pjpendix. 

and at the same time a very large quantity of amylaceous* 
food is rapidly converted into dextrine and sugar by the pan- 
creatic action of the emulsion, and thus a most important as- 
sistance in the economy of fat is given by the increased supply 
of carbon from the carbohydrates f at the same time that fat 
is being thrown into the blood by the emulsion. 

"From the date of its first introduction in 1863 up to 1872, 
at the lloyal Chest Hospital alone, 1 had prescribed the emul- 
sion in over six thousand cases. . . . The general results of 
my thus extended experience have been confirmatory of my 
opinion. ... I am informed on good authority that as much 
as sixty thousand pounds of the emulsion (made in London) 
have been consumed in a single year. While there are cer- 
tainly a few persons who cannot possibly take or assimilate the 
emulsion, although able to take cod-liver oil, they are but very 
few indeed, now that the emulsion has been made so perfect a 
preparation ; whereas the number of persons who can take and 
assimilate the emulsion but not cod-liver oil, is very large. In 
either case, it is necessary not to be too easily persuaded by 
our patients from prescribing the remedy. I frequently find 
that patients who assert that they cannot possibly, and never 
could, keep down the oil, will manage to do so when informed 
that it is the only thing that will stay the progress of the 
disease." 

Food for Infants. 

Remarks of Dr. Eustace Smith, Physician to the King of the 
Belgians, in The Sanitary Record : 

" The mortality among children under the age of twelve 
months is enormous, and of these deaths a large proportion 
might be prevented by a wider diffusion of knowledge of one 
of the most simple of subjects. . . . The great principle 
at the bottom of all successful feeding, viz., that an infant is 
nourished in proportion to his power of digesting the food with 
which he is supplied, and not in proportion to the quantity of 
nutritive material which he may be induced to swallow, is so 
* rertaining to starch. f Sugar and starch. 



"^^Wr. 






obviously true that an apology might almost seem necessary for 
stating so self-evident a proposition ; but experience shows that 
this simple truth is one which, in practice, is constantly lost 
sight of. That that child thrives best who is most largely fed, 
and that the more solid the food the greater its nutritive power, 
are two articles of faith so firmly settled in the minds of many 
persons that it is very difficult indeed to persuade them to the 
contrary. To them wasting in an infant merely suggests a 
larger supply of more solid food ; every cry means hunger, and 
must be quieted by an additional meal. To take a common 
case : A child, weakly, perhaps, to begin with, is filled with a 
quantity of solid food which he has no power of digesting. 
His stomach and bowels revolt against the burden imposed 
upon them, and endeavor to get rid of the offending matter by 
vomiting and diarrhoea; a gastro-intestinal catarrh is set up, 
which still further reduces the strength; every meal causes a 
return of the sickness; the bowels are filled with fermenting 
matter, which excites violent griping pains, so that the child 
rests neither night nor day ; after a longer or shorter time he 
sinks, worn out by pain or exhaustion, and is then said to have 
died from 'consumption of the bowels.' 

"Cases such as the above are but too common, and must be 
painfully familiar to every physician who has much experience 
of the diseases of children. 

"The food we select for the diet of an infant should be 
nutritious in itself, but it should also be given in a form in 
which the child is capable of digesting it; otherwise we may 
fill him with food without in any way contributing to his nu- 
trition, and actually starve the body while we load the stomach 
to repletion. No food can be considered suitable to the re- 
quirements of the infa.nt unless it not only possess heat-giving 
and fat-producing properties, but also contains material to sup- 
ply the waste of the nitrogenous tissues; therefore a merely 
starchy substance, such as arrowroot, which enters so largely 
into the diet of children, especially among the poor, is a very 
undesirable food for infants, unless given in very small quanti- 
ties and mixed largely with milk. 



216 Ajppe7idix. 

"The most perfect food for children — the only one, indeed, 
which can be trusted to supply in itself all the necessary ele- 
ments of nutrition in the most digestible form — is milk. In it 
are contained nitrogenous matter in the curd, fat in the cream, 
besides sugar, and the salts which are so essential to perfect 
nutrition. Tlie milk of different animals varies to a certain ex- 
tent in the proportion of the several constituents, some con- 
taining more curd, others more cream and sugar; but the milk 
of the cow, which is always readily obtainable, is the one to 
which recourse is usually had, and, when properly made, this is 
perfectly efficient for the purpose required. Cow's milk con- 
tains a larger proportion of curd and cream, but less sugar, than 
is found in human milk, and these differences can be immedi- 
ately remedied by dilution with water and the addition of cane 
or milk sugar in sufficient quantity to supply the necessary 
sweetness. But there is another and more important difference 
between the two fluids which must not be lost sight of. If we 
take two children, the one fed on cow's milk and water, the 
other nursed at liis mother's breast, and produce vomiting after 
a meal by friction over the abdomen, we notice a remarkable 
difference in the matters ejected. In the first case we see the 
curd of the milk coagulated into a firm, dense lump ; while in 
the second the curd appears in the form of minute flocculent, 
loosely connected granules. The demand made upon tlie di- 
gestive powers in these two cases is very different, and the ex- 
periment explains the difficulty often experienced by infants in 
digesting cow's milk, however diluted it may be ; for the addi- 
tion of water alone will not hinder the firm clotting of the curd. 
In order to make such milk satisfactory as a food for new-born 
infants further preparation is required ; and there are two ways 
in which the difficulty may be overcome. 

"Although any thickening matter will have the mechanical 
effect desired of separating the particles of curd, yet it is not 
immaterial what substance is chosen. The question of the fari- 
naceous feeding of infants is a very' important one, for it is to 
an excess of this diet that so many of their derangements may 
often be attributed. Owinor to a mistaken notion that such 



Appendix. 217 

foods are peculiarly light and digestible — a notion so widely 
prevalent that the phrase " food for infants " has become almost 
synonymous with farinaceous matter — young babies are often 
fed as soon as they are born with large quantities of corn-flour 
or arrowroot, mixed sometimes with milk, but often with water 
alone. Now starch, of which all the farinas so largely consist, 
is digested principally by the saliva, aided by the secretion from 
the pancreas, which convert the starch into dextrine and grape- 
sugar previous to absorption. But the amount of saliva formed 
in the new-born infant is excessively scanty, and it is not until 
the fourth month that the secretion becomes fully established. 
Again, according to the experiments of Korowin, of St. Peters- 
burg, the pancreatic juice is almost absent in a child of a month 
old ; even in the second month its secretion is very limited, and 
has little action upon starch. It is only at the end of the third 
month that its action upon starch becomes sufficiently powerful 
to furnish material for a quantitative estimation of the sugar 
formed. Therefore, before the age of three months a farina- 
ceous diet is not to be recommended — is even to be strongly 
deprecated, unless the starchy substance be given with great 
caution and in very small quantities. If administered reck- 
lessly, as it too often is, the food lies undigested in the bowels, 
ferments, and sets up a state of acid indigestion which, in so 
young and feeble fi being, may lead to the most disastrous con- 
sequences. In fact, the deaths of so many children under two 
or three months old can be often attributed to no other cause 
than a purely functional abdominal derangement, excited and 
maintained by too liberal feeding with farinaceous foods. 
There is, however, one form of food which, although farina- 
ceous, is yet well digested, even by young infants, if given in 
moderate quantities. This is barley water. The starch it con- 
tains is small in amount and is held in a state of very fine 
division. When barley water is mixed with milk in equal pro- 
portions it insures a fine separation of the curd, and is at the 
same time a harmless addition to the diet. Isinglass or gela- 
tine, in the proportion of a teaspoonful to the bottleful of milk 
and water, may also be made use of, and will be found to an- 
10 



218 Apjpendix. 

svver the purpose well. Farinaceous foods in general are, as has 
been said, injurious to young babies on account of the defi- 
ciency during the first months of life of the secretions necessary 
for the conversion of the starch into the dextrine and grape- 
sugar, a preliminary process which is indispensable to absorp- 
tion. If, however, we can make such an addition to the food 
as will insure the necessary chemical change, farinaceous matter 
ceases to be injurious. It has been found that, by adding to it 
malt in certain proportions, the same change is excited in the 
starch artificially as is produced naturally by the salivary and 
pancreatic secretions during the process of digestion. The em- 
ployment of malt for this purpose was first suggested by Mialhe, 
in a paper read before the French Academy in 1845, and 
the suggestion was put into practice by Liebig, fifteen years 
later. 

" 'Liebig's Food for Infants' contains wheat flour, malt, and 
a little carbonate of potash, and has gained a well-deserved ce- 
lebrity 33 a food for babies during the first few mouths of life. 
The best form with which I am acquainted is that made by Mr. 
Mellin, under the name of ' Mellin's Extract for Preparing Lie- 
big's Food for Infants.' In this preparation, owing to the 
careful way in which it is manufactured, the whole of the starch 
is converted into dextrine and grape-sugar, so that the greater 
part of the work of digestion is performed before the food 
reaches the stomach of the child. Mixed with equal parts of 
milk and water this food is as perfect a substitute for mother's 
milk as can be produced, and is readily digested by the young- 
est infants. It very rarely, indeed, happens that it is found 
to disagree. 

" In all cases, then, where a child is brought up by hand, 
milk should enter largely into his diet; and during the first 
few months of life he should be fed upon it almost entirely. 
If he can digest plain milk and water, there is no reason for 
making any other addition than that of a little milk, sugar, and 
cream ; but in cases where, as often happens, the heavy curd 
taxes the gastric powers too severely, the milk may be thickened 
by an equal proportion of thin barley water, or by adding to 



Ajp'pendix. 219 

each bottleful of milk and water a teaspoonful of isinglass or 
of Mellin's Extract." 

ONE MONTH. 

" Having fixed upon the kind of food which is suitable to 
the child, we must next be careful that it is not given in too 
large quantities, or that the meals are not repeated too fre- 
quently. If the stomach be kept constantly overloaded, even 
with a digestible diet, the effect is almost as injurious as if the 
child were fed upon a less digestible food in more reasonable 
quantities. A healthy infant passes the greater part of his 
time asleep, waking at intervals to take nourishment. These 
intervals must not be allowed to be too short, and it is a great 
mistake to accustom the child to take food whenever it cries. 
From three to four ounces of liquid will be a suflScient quanti- 
ty during the first six weeks of life ; and of this only a half 
or even a third part should consist of milk, according to the 
child's powers of digestion. After such a meal the infant 
should sleep quietly for at least two hours. Fretfalness and 
irritability in a very young baby almost always indicate indi- 
gestion and flatulence ; and if a child cries and whines un- 
easily, twisting about its body and jerking its limbs, a fresh 
meal given instantly, although it may quiet it for the mo- 
ment, will, after a short time, only increase the child's discom- 
fort." 

TWO MONTHS. 

"During the first six weeks or two months, two hours will 
be a sufficient interval between the meals ; afterwards this in- 
terval can be lengthened, and at the same time a larger quan- 
tity may be given at each time of feeding. No more food 
should be prepared at once than is required for the particular 
meal. The position of the child as it takes food should be 
half reclining, as when taking food from the mother's breast, 
and the food should be given from a feeding-bottle. When 
the contents of the bottle are exhausted the child should not 
be allowed to continue sucking at an empty vessel, as by this 
means air is swallowed which might afterwards be a source of 
great discomfort." 



220 Appendix. 



SIX MONTHS. 

"At the age of six months farinaceous food may be given 
in small quantities with safety, if it be desired to do so ; and 
in some cases the addition of a small proportion of wheaten 
flour to the diet is found to be attended with advantage. The 
best form in which this can be given is the preparation of 
wheat known as ' Chapman's Entire Wheaten Flour.' This is su- 
perior for the purpose to the ordinary flour, as it contains the 
inner husk of the wheat finely ground, and is, therefore, rich 
in phosphates and in a peculiar body called cerealine, which has 
the diastatic property of changing starchy matters into dex- 
trine." 

EIGHT MONTHS, 

"After the eighth month a little thin mutton or chicken 
broth or veal tea may be given, carefully freed from all grease. 
After 

TWELVE MONTHS 

The child may begin to take light puddings, well-mashed po- 
tatoes with gravy, or the lightly boiled yolk of an ^gg\ but 
no meat should be allowed until the child be at least sixteen 
months old. Every new article of food should be given cau- 
tiously and in small quantities at first; and any sign of indi- 
gestion should be noted, and a return be made at once to a 
simpler method of feeding." 



Feeding the Baby. 

Dr. C. E. Page, in a very admirable little book, " How to 
Feed the Baby," thinks babies are generally overfed. He 
thinks three meals a day and nothing at night, for an infant 
from its birth, is quite enough ; that the stomach of an infant 
needs rest like that of an adult ; that the stomach should be 
allowed to clear itself and rest before the next meal is taken ; 
that " the stomach is generally forced to go to work again too 
soon, and later this excessive labor exhausts the muscular power 
of the stomach ; the supply of gastric juice is not enough to 



Appendix. 221 

digest unnceded food, which, if not thrown up, remains to pu- 
trefy and poison the blood." Dr. Page relates his experience 
with his own children (also others under his charge), who were 
brought up on the three-meal s-a-day plan. He says they slept 
all night like older people. At the same time due attention 
was paid to ventilation. A little dropping of the upper win- 
dow always kept the room well aired ; no swaddling clothes 
pinched the vital organs. 

He says: "If the child be fed and dressed properly, and is 
otherwise rationally managed, there will be no midnight orgies, 
no sleepless nights on baby's account, and it will soon, indeed 
in a very few days, become so regular in habit that the bundled, 
pinned-up squares, so sweltering and injurious, can be entirely 
dispensed with at night, and during its naps by day, and it 
may be safely laid down after supper for its ten or twelve 
hours of solid sleep." 

What Dr. Page considers a sufficient amount of diet is as 
follows : " No definite rule can be given for the amount of 
food necessary for a hand-fed babe at any given age. It will 
not, however, vary much from one pint for an infant of six 
months. This amount, divided into three meals at 6 a.m., 12 m. 
and 6 p.m., has, in my experience, always insured the best re- 
sults." 

This seems very little, yet undoubtedly babies are generally 
overfed. 

He also says : " During hot weather the child does not need 
as much food as in winter. . . . The baby should be allowed 
water frequently in summer." 

Dr. Dawson, of New York, discussing the same subject, says : 
" When treating vomiting, constipation, or diarrhoea in chil- 
dren, the stomach is given rest by cutting off all but a small 
quantity of food. Will we gain any benefit, I ask, from ejected 
or undigested food, even if it causes no severer disturbance ?" 

Again he says : " Constipation, too, so common in otherwise 
healthy infants, is generally due to excessive and too-frequent 
feeding. The explanation is quite simple. The stomach be- 
ing overburdened with food, and consequently overtaxed with 



222 Appendix. 

work, each supply of milk, instead of being coagulated into 
fine and soft coagula, which are readily acted upon by the se- 
creted pepsin, comes into contact with the semi-digested acid 
coagula of the preceding meal, and, in consequence, is coagu- 
lated more rapidly than it should be normally, the coagula be- 
ing larger and harder. Such masses, if not ejected, pass into 
the intestinal canal but little or not at all changed by the di- 
gestive process, will impact together on contact, and from their 
size and dryness are with difficulty passed along the bowels, 
thus giving rise to constipation, colic, etc." 

Professor ITuxley says : " But, whatever the circumstances, if 
the quantity of food taken exceeds the demands of the system, 
evil consequences are sure to follow. The immediate results 
of overeating are lethargy, heaviness, and tendency to sleep. 
Overtaxing the digestive organs soon deranges their functions, 
and is a common and efficient cause of dyspepsia. If the food 
is not absorbed from the digestive apparatus into the system, 
it rapidly undergoes chemical decomposition in the alimentary 
canal, and often putrefies. Large quantities of gas are thus 
generated, which give rise to flatulence and colicky pains. Dys- 
pepsia, constipation, and intestinal irritation causing diarrhoea 
are produced. If digestion be strong, and its products are ab- 
sorbed, an excess of nutriment is thrown into the blood, and 
the circulation is overloaded. If food is not expended in force, 
the natural alternative is its accumulation in the system, pro- 
ducing plethora, and abnormal increase of tissue. This is ac- 
companied by congestion of important organs, mal-assimila- 
tion of nutritive material, and increased proneness to derange- 
ment and diseased action." 

Dr. Dawson says : " The ejection of milk after nursing, which 
is ignorantly considered by many to be the sign of a healthy 
child, denotes overfeeding, and is the effect of reflex action. . . . 
As my experience has taught me, most infants who thus throw 
up after eating suffer sooner or later from enteralgia and con- 
stipation, and other symptoms of indigestion, which later are 
only relieved when the greed of the child is restricted." 

Dr. Page says : " One cause of excessive feeding exists in the 



Ajppendix. 223 

desire of parents to have 2ifat baby. . . . The excessive fat, so 
generally regarded as a sign of a healthy babe, is as truly a state 
of actual disease as when it occurs at adult age. Not only are 
the muscles enveloped with fat, they are mixed with it through- 
out, and so are the vital organs — the kidneys, liver, heart, etc. 
Dissection in these cases often discloses the fact that these 
organs are enlarged and degenerated with fat ; the liver, for ex- 
ample, is often double the normal size. The disease finally 
culminates in one of two things — a considerable period of non- 
growth, or a violent sickness, which strips them of fat, if not of 
life." 

Dr. Page further says : " It is not the large quantity swal- 
lowed, but the right quantity, properly digested and perfectly 
assimilated, that alone can insure the best results with either 
children or adults." 



Diet for Typhoid Fever. 

Extract from an address on the "Treatment of Typhoid 
Fever," delivered before the Midland Medical Society, 1879, by 
Sir William Jenner: 

" From the first they should be restricted to a liquid diet 
with farinaceous food and bread in fine form, if the appetite 
should require it. It is better to vary the broths, and to add 
to them some strong essence of vegetables. Sometimes a little 
strained fruit juice is taken with advantage, but skins and seeds 
of fruits and particles of the pulp are frequent sources of irrita- 
tion to the bowels. Grapes are always dangerous, from the diffi^ 
culty of preventing seeds slipping down the throat. The value 
of milk as an article of diet is generally admitted, but it requires 
to be given with caution. The indiscriminate employment of 
milk in almost unlimited quantities as diet in fever has led to 
serious troubles. Milk contains a large amount of solid animal 
food. The caseine of the milk has to pass into a solid form be- 
fore digestion can take place. Curds form in the stomach. 
Patients suffering from typhoid fever should be allowed an un- 
limited supply of pure water. When pure water is freely ab* 



224 Appendix. 

sorbcd it passes away by the kidneys, sldn, lungs, etc., and is of 
much service as a depurating agent. If it be possible even that 
the poison of the fever was conveyed into the patient by the 
drinking-water or the milk of the district in which he is ill, 
then these fluids should be boiled until a different supply is ob- 
tained. . . . The fever is thus met by rest, quiet, fresh air, 
mixed liquid food, and bland diluents, and the exclusion of 
fresh doses of poison ; the intestinal lesion by careful exclusion 
from the diet of all hard and irritating substances, and the re- 
moval from the bowels of any local irritant. 

"The chief causes of diarrhoea in excess of that due to the 
intestinal changes in typhoid fever are, first, errors in diet; sec- 
ond, the use of solid food — the presence of undigested food in 
the bowels, the abuse of milk and animal broths. My own ex- 
perience has not satisfied me that one animal broth is more 
prone to produce diarrhoea than another. Excess of fluid, 
when there is irritability to absorb the quantity drank, passes 
through the bowels, and so stimulates excessive secretion from 
the intestinal mucous membrane. 

" Alcohol in fit doses improves the nerve energy. . . . When 
blood in ever so small a quantity is observed in the secretions, 
the patient is to be kept in a recumbent position. He should 
not be allowed to make any effort whatever. All movement 
of the bowels should be restrained as far as possible and for as 
long as possible. ... It is a point of the greatest moment to 
keep the bowels empty, and therefore nourishment should be 
given in the most concentrated and absorbable form ; i. e., essence 
of meat in tablespoonful doses, frequently repeated. Lumps 
of ice should be sucked, and all essence of meat iced. 

" In a disease which runs a limited course, like typhoid fever, 
the greatest possible care should be taken to preserve the 
powers of the stomach, as the life of the patient may depend 
on his power to digest nourishment towards the end of his 
disease. ... To avert death from failure of heart power 
alcohol is the great remedy. Over defective cardiac action — 
due altogether to changes in the muscular tissue, when once 
established, or in the circulation of poisoned blood through its 



Appendix. 225 

vessels — alcohol exerts comparatively little influence ; but when 
the weakness and frequency of cardiac action are due to nerve 
influence, in part or altogether, then alcohol exerts a singularly 
beneficial effect on the rapidity and feebleness of the heart's ac- 
tion. ... I may sum up my experience in regard to the use 
of alcohol in the treatment of typhoid fever thus : Its influence 
is exerted primarily in the nervous system, and through it on 
the several organs and processes; for example, the heart and 
the general nutritive processes — changes on which the rise and 
fall of temperature depends. In judiciously selected cases it 
lowers temperature, increases the force and diminishes the 
frequency of the heart-beats ; it calms and soothes the patient, 
diminishes the tremor; it quiets delirium, and induces sleep. 
It should never be given in the early stage of the disease, or 
with the hope of anticipating and so preventing the occurrence 
of prostration and debility, but should be prescribed only when 
the severity of special symptoms, or the general state of prostra- 
tion, indicates its use. Hence a large number of cases of 
typhoid fever end favorably without alcohol being prescribed 
at all. It should not be prescribed when a sudden gush of 
blood has induced faintness, unless the faintness is so great as 
to threaten life immediately. Nor should it be given when, 
after the first few drops, the temperature rises, the heart's ac- 
tion becomes more frequent, or more feeble, delirium increas- 
es, sleeplessness supervenes, or drowsiness deepens, so as to 
threaten to pass into coma. When the urine contains a cer- 
tain amount of albumen alcohol should not be prescribed un- 
less absolutely necessary for the relief of some symptom im- 
mediately threatening life, and then it should be given with the 
greatest caution, and its effects on temperature and the circula- 
tion be carefully and frequently noted. The quantity of alco- 
hol prescribed should be as much only as may be necessary to 
effect the object for which it is prescribed. In the fourth 
week, to tide the patient over the concluding days of the dis- 
ease, it may, as a rule, be given more freely than in the second, 
or the beginning of the third, week of the disease ; but it is in 
exceptional cases only, that more than twelve ounces of brandy 
10* 



226 Appendix. 

in the twenty-four hours can be taken without inducing the 
worst symptoms of prostration. Nearly all the good effects of 
alcohol, when its use is indicated, are obtained by four, six, or 
eight ounces of brandy in twenty-four hours. Taken in excess, 
even when in smaller quantities, it would do the patient no 
good ; it dries the tongue, muddles the mind. . . . When there 
is a question of a larger or a smaller dose, I, as a rule, give the 
smaller. The reverse of the rule I laid down for myself in the 
treatment of typhus fever." 



Fresh Air and Diet for Colds and Catarrhs. 

Extracts from " The Remedies of Nature," by Dr. Felix L. 
Oswald : 

Dr. Oswald says : " That colds or catarrhal affections are so 
very common — more frequent than all other diseases taken to- 
gether — is mainly due to the fact that the cause of no other 
disorder of the human organism is so generally misunder- 
stood . . . the cause is taken for a cure, and the most effective 
cure for the cause of the disease. If we inquire after that 
cause, ninety-nine patients out of a hundred . . . would answer, 
' Cold weather,' * Raw March winds,' ... in other words, out- 
door air of a low temperature. If we inquire after the best 
cure, the answer would be, ' Warmth and protection against 
cold draughts,' i. e., warm, stagnant, in-door air. Now, I main- 
tain that it can be proved . . . that warm, vitiated in-door air 
is the cause, and cold out-door air the best cure for catarrhs. . . . 
In all the civilized countries of the colder latitudes catarrhs 
are frequent in winter and early spring, and less frequent in 
midwinter, hence the inference. . . . No kind of warm weather 
will mitigate a catarrh while the patient persists in doing what 
thousands never cease to do the year round — namely, to ex- 
pose their lungs night after night to the vitiated, sickening at- 
mosphere of an unventilated bedroom. Colds are, indeed, less 
frequent in midwinter than at the beginning of spring. Frost 
is such a powerful disinfectant that in very cold nights the 



Aj[ypendix. 227 

lung-poisoning atmosphere of few houses can resist its puri- 
fying influence ; in spite of padded doors, weather-strips, and 
double windows, it reduces the in-door temperature enough to 
paralyze the floating disease germs. ... All Arctic travellers 
agree that among the natives of Iceland, Greenland, and Lab- 
rador pulmonary diseases are actually unknown. Protracted 
cold weather thus prevents epidemic catarrhs, but during the 
first thaw nature succumbs to art, . . . the incubatory influence 
of the first moist heat is brought to bear on the lethargized 
catarrh germs. . . . Smouldering stove fires add their fumes to 
the effluvia of the dormitory ; superstition triumphs ; the lung- 
poison operates, and the next morning a snuffling, coughing, 
and red-nosed family discuss the cause of their affliction. . . . 
The summer season brings relief; . . . the windows are partially 
opened. The long warm days offer increased opportunities 
for out-door rambles. . . . No man can freeze himself into a 
catarrh. In cold weather the hospitals of our Northern cities 
sometimes receive patients with both feet and both hands 
frozen, . . . but without a trace of catarrhal affection. Duck 
hunters may wade all day in a frozen swamp without affecting 
the functions of their respiratory organs. Ice cutters not rare- 
ly come in for an involuntary plunge bath, and are obliged to 
let their clothes dry on their backs ; it may result in a bowel 
complaint, but no catarrh. . . . Cold is a tonic that invigorates 
the respiratory organs when all other stimulants fail, and, com- 
bined with arm exercise and certain dietetic alteratives, fresh 
cold air is the best remedy for all the disorders of the lungs 
and upper air passages. ... If the fight is to be strong and de- 
cisive (for breaking up a cold), the resources of the adversary 
must be diminished by a strict fast. . . . But, aided by exercise, 
out-door air of any temperature will accomplish the same result. 
In two days a resolute pedestrian can walk away from a sum- 
mer catarrh of that malignant type that is apt to defy half- 
open windows. But the specific of the movement cure is arm 
exercise — a dumb-bell swinging, grapple - swing practice, and 
wood chopping. On a cold morning (for, after all, there are 
ten winter catarrhs to one in summer), a woodshed matinee 



228 Aj[>pendix, 

seems to reach the seat of disease by an air line. As the chest 
begins to heave under the stimulus of the exercise, respiration 
becomes freer as it becomes deeper and fuller . . . mucus is dis- 
charged en masse, as if the system had only waited for that 
amount of encouragement to rid itself of the incubus. A 
catarrh can thus be broken up in a single day. For the next 
half week the diet should be frugal and cooling. Fruit, light 
bread (?), and a little milk, is the best catarrh diet." " A fast- 
day is still better. Fasting effects in a perfectly safe way what 
the old-school practitioners tried to accomplish by bleeding ; it 
reduces the semi-febrile condition which accompanies every se- 
vere cold. There is no doubt but that by exercise alone a 
catarrh can gradually be ' worked off.' ... A combination of 
the three specifics, exercise, abstinence, and fresh air, will cure 
the most obstinate cold." 

This admirable article of Dr. Oswald's, published in the 
Popular Science Monthly^ has undoubtedly done much to 
shake what he calls " the night-air superstition.'* Dr. Oswald 
sleeps with window wide open the year round, and he never 
has a cold. It would undoubtedly be indiscreet, however, to 
change a habit too suddenly. 

The old maxim of "feeding a cold and starving a fever" is 
also refuted by physicians in general, as well as by Dr. Os- 
wald. 

Something more about the Pancreatic Extract for Artificial 
Digestion. 
In the receipts I have given for the digestion of certain foods 
(pages 41 and 42), Dr. Benjamin T. Fairchild (the inventor of 
the "Pancreatic Extract" as prepared by Fairchild Brothers) 
tells me that he fears I allow too long a time for the digestive 
process, which renders the food less palatable. It is more sat- 
isfactory, he says, to digest the milk food but half an hour. If 
not taken immediately by the patient, the food is, after the 
half hour, placed on ice. This arrests digestion, and when the 
patient takes the food into the stomach, the digestion is there 
completed. As it is desirable to give the food to the patient 



Ajpjpendix, 229 

warm, it can bo slightly heated (a little more than lukewarm) 
just before it is administered. The boiling of the food kills 
the digestive principle of the extract used. Yet it is some- 
times, in the absence of ice, desirable to boil it in order to keep 
it. The digestive function is not destroyed by cold tempera- 
ture — only arrested. 

I do not understand why it would not be as satisfactory to 
mix the pancreatic extract with the food just before eating, 
and allow the entire digestive process to be carried on in the 
stomach. I merely give the advice of others who ought to 
know more about it than the author. 

I will also add that pancreatized barley gruel (made without 
sugar) is the most palatable of the pancreatized gruels. 

I am also tempted to add a new receipt for a pancreatized 
food which is now much used. 



Pancreatized Oysters. 

Chop half a dozen raw oysters fine as possible, also pound 
them. 

Bring two cupfuls (one pint) of the oyster liquor (it may be 
part water if there is not oyster liquor enough) to a boil, then 
thicken it with half a cupful of barley flour, rubbed smooth 
with half a cupful of water. Let it boil three or four minutes 
to cook the barley, then add the oyster pulp, and a seasoning 
of salt and very little pepper. When it comes to the boiling- 
point again, take it from the fire, and when the temperature is 
reduced to blood heat, mix in a fourth of a teaspoonful of pan- 
creatic powder, and half a saltspoonful of soda. Pour it into 
a glass jar or bottle, and put this into water so hot that the 
whole hand can be held in without discomfort for a minute. 
Let it stand an hour as described for milk. It takes a little 
longer to digest oysters than milk. 

The dish is most palatable served immediately. It is liable 
to curdle when brought to the boiling-point again. It can 
either be placed on ice, or brought to the boiling-point for the 
purpose of keeping. 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



Animal Foods, remarks about. ... 14 

Apple Sauce 177 

Apples, Baked 176 

Arrow-root, remarks about 21 

Asparagus Soup 161 

" " {a la crime) 161 

Babies, diet for 49 

Barley Gruel 107 

« Pudding 193 

« Wafers 122 

Bass a I'Espagnole 150 

Beans, remarks about 21 

Beef " " 14 

" Juice 102 

« Sandwich 144 

Beef Tea 100 

" " for Convalescents 103 

" « for Invalids (Dr. Rice).. 54 

« « for Travelling 102 

« « (Liebig's) 101 

Beefsteak 141 

« Chopped 143 

Beets (a la crime) 136 

Beverages from Fruits 92 

Bird, a 149 

Biscuits, Dixie 120 

« Wafer 122 

Blanc-mange, Corn-starch 178 

" " Sea-moss 178 

Bouillon 165 

Bread 113 

" Adirondack 114 

" Boston Brown 116 

" Corn 122 

" « (No. 2) 123 

« « (No. 3) 123 

«• « Rice 124 

« Dice 103 

« Gluten 130 



FAGB 

Bread, Graham (No. 1) 115 

" " (No.2) 115 

» Pulled 119 

Bright's Disease, diet in 69 

Brolh, Beef, with a Poached Egg. 106 

« Chicken 104 

" Clam 166 

« Clear Beef. 105 

" Mutton 104 

Buttermilk, remarks about 13 

Cake, Coffee 120 

" Graham Sponge 193 

« Hoe 124 

Carrots (a la crime) 136 

Caudle, Oatmeal 109 

Cauliflower 136 

Charlotte-russe 179 

Chicken, Breast of 144 

" Broth 104 

" Croquettes 145 

" Fricassee 145 

« Plain Boiled 147 

" Prairie 149 

« Souffle 148 

« Spring 147 

" with Macaroni or Rice.. 146 

Chocolate 98 

" remarks about 5 

Cholera, diet in 62 

Chop, Mutton 144 

Clabbered Milk 174 

Clara Broth 166 

" Soup 167 

Coffee, remarks about 6 

" to make 97 

Compotes 177 

Consumption, diet in. 173 

Corn Bread (No. 1) 122 

" « (No.2) 123 



232 



Alphabetical Index. 



Corn Bread (No. 3) 123 

" IJice Bread 124 

" Soiip 1(53 

" " (No. 2) 164 

Cornmeal Gruel Ill 

" Mush 129 

" Pancakes 124 

Corn-starch Blanc-mange 178 

" " remarks about 21 

Corpulent, diet for the 77 

Cottage Cheese 175 

Cracked Wheat 126 

Crackers 53 

Cream, a glass of 96 

" Ice 175 

" of Asparagus 161 

" of Chicken 160 

" of Corn 163 

" « (No. 2) 164 

" of Oysters 159 

" of Potatoes 161 

" of Rice, Farina, or Barley. 160 

" of String-beans 1 63 

" Toast 118 

" Whipped 174 

Croquettes, Chicken 1 45 

" Macaroni ] 54 

" Oyster. 156 

Currant Jelly 185 

" Preserv^es 186 

" Scone 125 

Custard a la Morrison 180 

" Caramel 183 

" Chocolate 182 

Coffee 181 

" of Granulated Barlev or 

Oats '.... 182 

" Plain Boiled 180 

" Rennet 182 

" Tapiora or Sago 181 

Diabetes, diet in 71 

Diarrhoea, " 61 

Digestion, artificial 39 

DiphtJjeria, diet in 76 

Distilled Water 89 

Dysentery, diet in 62 

Dyspepsia " 55 

Egg and Milk Punch 95 

" Cordial.. 95 



Eggnog 9 ") 

Eggs, IJoiled 139 

" Poached 139 

" Raw 141 

" remarks about 20 

Farina Gruel. , Ill 

'• Pudding 190 

Fat, remarks about 18 

Fever, diet in 64 

" Typhoid 66,222 

Fish. Bass a VEspagnole 150 

" Boiled 150 

" Broiled 149 

" remarks about 16 

Flaxseed and Licorice Tea 91 

" Lemonade 94 

« Tea 91 

Flour Gruel 109 

" « (No. 2) 110 

« « (No. 3) 110 

" Soup 167 

Fruits, beverages from 92 

" remarks about 22 

" Stewed 177 

Gastritis, diet in 76 

Gelatine, remarks about 21 

(ilutcn and Rice Muffins 131 

" Bread 130 

" Cheese Cakes 132 

" Cream Wafers 132 

" Muffins 131 

<' Mush 130 

" Pudding or Gruel 131 

« Souffle 132 

" Wafers 132 

Gout, diet in 67 

Graham Bread 115 

" '« (No. 2) 115 

Rolls 125 

Graham-flour Pudding 190 

Granulated-wheat Custard 182 

" " Pancakes 124 

« Pudding 191 

Grape Juice 44,93 

(i rapes, remarks about 22 

Gruel, Barley 107 

" Cornmeal Ill 

" Farina Ill 

«' Flour 109 



Alphabetical Index. 



233 



PAGE 

(^riH-1, Flour (No. 2) 110 

'' (No.3) 110 

" Graliam-flour 108 

" Oatmeal, for Infants 54 

« " (No. 1) 108 

'• '• (No. 2) 109 

" Peptonized Milk 42 

" Rice 110 

Health-foods 26 

Hot-water Cure 47 

Ice-cream and Iced Peaches 175 

Iced water, effects of C 

Infants, diet for 49, 214, 221 

Jelly, Coffee 185 

" Currant 185 

" " Sauce 173 

« " Water 91 

" Peptonized Milk 42 

« Wine 184 

" " (without cooking)... 185 

Juice, Beef. 102 

" Grape 44 

Koumiss 31 

" to make 34 

Lemon Pie or Pudding 193 

Lemonade 93 

" Flaxseed 94 

Lime-water 89 

Liquors, remarks about 8 

Longevity 80 

Macaroni and Tomato Sauce 152 

" au Gratin 153 

"' Croquettes 154 

« Pudding 191 

" Soup 165 

Malt Extract 9 

Mellin's Food for Infants 54 

Milk and Egg Punch 95 

" and Seltzer-water 99 

" Clabbered 174 

" for Infants, Liebig's receipt.. 52 

" Punch 94 

" remarks about 10 

" Toast 119 

" to Peptonize 41 



PAOB 

Mush, Cornmeal 129 

" Gluten 130 

Mutton Chop 144 

" remarks about 14 

Oatmeal Caudle 109 

« Drink 90 

"■ Gruel 54, 108,109 

" Porridge 128 

« Wafers 122 

Orange Marmalade 186 

" Pudding 193 

Oyster Croquettes 156 

* " Soup 166 

Oysters (a Ui ci-eme) 159 

" on Toast 153 

" remarks about 16 

Oysters, Pancrcatized 229 

Panada Ill 

Pancakes, Cornmeal 124 

" Flour 124 

" Granulated-wheat 124 

Pap 52 

Pear Compote 177 

Peppers, Stuffed 138 

Potato Soup (a la crenie) 161 

Potatoes (a la crenie) 135 

" " {au gratin). 135 

" to bake 134 

« to boil 134 

Preserves, Currant 186 

•' Strawberry 187 

Pudding, Barley 193 

" Corn Cottage 189 

« Farina 190 

" Graham Flour 190 

" Granulated-wheat 191 

" Lemon 193 

" ]\Iacaroni 191 

" Orange 193 

" other Soufflee 192 

" Quioque 191 

Rennet Custard 182 

Rheumatism, diet in 67 

Rice a l^/mp€7-atrice 172 

" and Gravy 170 

" Cones 170 

" Dish, as a vegetable 173 

" Gruel 110 



234 



Alphabetical Index. 



PAGK 

Rice Pudding 1 70 

«' " (No. 2) 171 

" « a la Gmllod 172 

" remarks about 20 

" Soup (a /a c?'e/He) IGO 

" to boil 1C9 

« " in Milk 369 

Rickets, diet in 75 

Sago, remarks about 21 

Salad 156 

Sauce a la Gitillod 192 

" a plain one for Puddings. . . 189 

" Apple 177 

" Brown 137 

« Burke 192 

« Currant Jelly 173 

" Tomato 155 

Scrofula, diet in 75 

Sea-moss Blanc-mange , . . 178 

Seltzer-water and Milk 99 

Spinach 135 

Spirituous Liquors, remarks about 8 

Soup, Asparagus 161 

" " (a la creme) 161 

«« Chicken " 160 

« Clam 167 

" Corn (a la creme) 163 

« « « (No. 2)... 164 

" Farina or Barley (a Za crme) 160 

" Flour 167 

" Oyster 166 

" " {a la creme) 159 

« Potato " 161 

" Rice » 160 

" Stock for 164 

" String-bean . 163 

Steak, Beef 141 

" Venison 144 

Strawberry Preserves 187 

Sugar Syrup 92 

Sweetbreads 151 

♦' with Cream Sauce. . 152 



PAOB 

Tamarind Water 90 

Tapioca, Custard 181 

" remarks about 21 

Tea, Beef 100 

" « (Liebig's) 101 

'•' Flaxseed .' 91 

" Iced . . , 6 

" remarks about 1,198 

" to make 96 

Teas, Herb 91 

Toast, Cream 118 

" Milk 119 

" Mock Cream 118 

" Sippets 117 

" to make 116 

" Water 118 

Tom and Jerry 95 

Tomato Sauce 155 

Tomatoes, remarks about 22 

Stuffed 137 

Utensils 85 

Venison Steak 144 

Wafers, Oatmeal, Granulated- 
wheat, Barley, Gluten, etc 122 

Water, Apple 93 

« Barley 90 

" Cinnamon 90 

" Currant-jelh' 91 

« Distilled . /. 89 

" Ice, remarks about 6 

" Lime 89 

« Oatmeal 90 

" Tamarind 90 

" Toast 91 

Wheat, Cracked 126 

Whey 92 

" remarks about 13 

Zwieback 119 



THE END. 



MRS. HENDERSON'S 

PRACTICAL COOKING. 



Practical Cooking and Dinner Giving. A Treatise con- 
taining Practical Instructions in Cooking ; in the 
Combination and Serving of Dishes ; and in the Fash- 
ionable Modes of Entertaining at Breakfast, Lunch, 
and Dinner. By Mrs. Mary F. Hendekson. Illus- 
trated, 12mo, Cloth, |1 50. 



Mrs. Senator Henderson has rendered an acceptable service to the 
women of America by the preparation of this thoroughly practical 
as well as thoroughly sensible book. She not only shows how to 
prepare and cook dishes, but how to serve them elegantly, and how 
to entertain company with quiet grace and refinement at breakfast, 
lunch, and dinner. Having pursued courses of study with cooking- 
teachers in America and Europe, she has the knowledge and ex- 
perience requisite for the judicious selection of ingredients and for 
their preparation for the table; and we think she has successfully 
carried out her aim to produce "a simple and practical book which 
will enable a family to live well and in good style, and, at the same 
time, with reasonable economy." * * * There is no detail of the 
economy of the table that is overlooked, and many of these are 
made more intelligible by illustrative engravings. — Christian In- 
telligence?', N. Y. 

Contains everything that even the most rigidly exacting of eaters 
could ask his cook to know; and which is, therefore, just the vol- 
ume to be used by persons who have to do their own cooking. — 
Boston Traveller. 

It tells how to serve dishes as well as how to cook them, and 
gives many useful instructions concerning the art of entertaining, 
some of which will help housekeepers to avoid serving what Lamb 
called "roast lady" with their dinners. The receipts are not too 
many, and a skilled housewife has found all of them good. — iV. Y. 
Evening Post. 



Published by HARPER & BROTHERS, New Yoek. 

dt^ Sent, postpaid, on receipt of price. 



USEFUL BOOKS FOR WOMEN. 



THE BAZAR BOOK OF BECOBUM. 

The Bazar Book of Decorum. The Care of the Person, Man- 
ners, Etiquette, and Ceremonials. 16mo, Cloth, $1 00. 

THE BAZAR BOOK OF HEALTH. 

The Bazar Book of Health. The Dwellina:, the Nursery, the 
Bedroom, the Dining-Room, the Parlor, the Library, the Kitchen, 
the Sick-Room. 16mo, Cloth, $1 00. 

THE BAZAR BOOK OF THE HOUSEHOLD. 

The Bazar Book of the Household. Marriage, Establishment, 
Servants, Housekeeping, Children, Home Life, Company. 16mo, 
Cloth, $1 00. 

BAZAR COOKING RECEIPTS. 

Cooking Receipts from Harper's Bazar. 32mo, Paper, 25 cents. 

MRS. CHURCH'S MONEY-MAKING FOR LADIES. 

Money-Making for Ladies. By Ella Rodman Church. 16mo, 
Cloth, 90 cents. 

MRS. DEWING'S (MISS OAKEY) BEAUTY IN DRESS. 

Beauty in Dress. By Mrs. T. W. Dewing. 16mo, Cloth, $1 00. 

MRS. DEWING'S (MISS OAKEY) BEAUTY IN THE HOUSE- 
HOLD. 

Beauty in the Household. By Mrs. T. W. Dewing, Author of 
"Beauty in Dress. " Illustrated. 16mo, Ornamental Cloth, $1 00. 

HAWEIS'S ART OF BEAUTY. 

The Art of Beauty. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. With numerous 
Illustrations by the Author. Square 16mo, Cloth, Ornamental 
Cover, $1 75. 

DIO LEWIS'S FIYE -MINUTE CHATS WITH YOUNG WOMEN. 

Five-Minutes Chats with Young Women and Certain other Par- 
ties. By Dig Lewis, B.M., M.D. 12mo, Cloth, $1 50. 

MOTHERS IN COUNCIL. 

Mothers in Council. Pages 194. 16mo, Cloth, 90 cents. 

OAKEY'S ART OF LIFE AND LIFE OF ART. 

The Art of Life and The Life of Art. By Alex. F. Oakey. 
Illustrated. 4to, Paper, 25 cents. 



Useful Books for Women. 



BLAIKIE'S HOW TO GET STRONG. 

How to Get Strong, and How to Stay so. By William Blaikie. 
Illustrated. 16mo, Cloth, $1 00. 

BLAIKIE'S SOUND BODIES FOR OUR BOYS AND GIRLS. 

By William Blaikie. With Illustrations. 16mo, Cloth, 
40 cents. 

MRS. SHERWOOD'S MANNERS AND SOCIAL USAGES IN 
AMERICA. 

Manners and Social Usages in America, A Book of Etiquette. 
By Mrs. John SnERWooD. 16mo, Cloth, $1 00, 

SOCIAL ETIQUETTE AND HOME CULTURE. 

The Glass of Fashion: A Universal Hand-Book of Social Eti- 
quette and Home Culture for Ladies and Gentlemen, With 
Copious and Practical Hints upon the Manners and Ceremonies 
of Every Relation in Life, at Home, in Society, and at Court. 
Interspersed with Numerous Anecdotes. By The Lounger in 
Society. 4to, Paper, 20 cents, 

SrOFFORD'S ART DECORATION APPLIED TO FURNI- 
TURE. 

Art Decoration Applied to Furniture, By Harriet Prescott 
Spofford. Illustrated, 8vo, Cloth, Illuminated and Gilt, 
$4 00; Half Calf, $6 25, 

TJIACY'S MOTHER AND HER OFFSPRING. 

The Mother and her Offspring. By Stephen Tracy, M.D., for- 
merly Missionary Physician of the A,B.C.F,M, to China, 12mo, 
Cloth, $1 50, 

UGLY-GIRL PAPERS. 

The Ugly-Girl Papers; or, Hints for the Toilet, Reprinted from 
Harper's Bazar. 16mo, Cloth, $1 00, 

VIRGINIA COOKERY-BOOK. 

By Mary Stuart Smith. 12mo, Cloth, $1 50. 

WALKER'S HINTS TO WOMEN ON PROPERTY. 

Hints to Women on the Care of Property. By Alfred Walker. 
32mo, Paper, 20 cents. 



Published by HARPER & BROTHERS, New York. 



B^^ Harper & Brothers iciU send any of the above woi'ks by mail, 
postage prepaid, to any part of the United States, on receipt of 
tlie j)rice. 



THE UNRIVALLED COOK-BOOK, 

And House - keeper's Guide. By Mrs. Washington. 
With Index and Blank Pages for Additional Re- 
ceipts, pp. viii., 640. 12mo, Waterproof Cloth, 

$2 00. 

This book contains in very compact form a vast deal of useful informa- 
tion. The cooking recipes are multitudinous, variegated, and trustworthy. 
— iV. Y. Commercial Advertiser. 

To read this is as good as going to Delraonico's. — Providence Journal. 

There are cook-books and cook-books, but this is a new one that ap- 
pears to excel all the rest. ... It will prove a benefaction to experienced 
cooks as well as to house-keepers who are just beginning business. — Port- 
land Argus. 

It is the best in the market. It would be a fine holiday present to a 
new house-keeper. — San Francisco Christian Advocate. 

This is a most complete work. Every conceivable dish seems to be de- 
scribed, and nothing in any department of kitchen work seems to be 
omitted. We would, perhaps, be justified in saying that it is the best 
cook-book ever published. — Cincinnati Christian Advocate. 

This is a good cook-book, very comprehensive, and giving recipes culled 
from all over the world. . . . The book ought to have " a run." — Presby- 
terian., Philadelphia. 

No American cook-book has yet contained so complete a list of Creole 
receipts. ... As may be inferred, this book contains a unique collection 
of receipts, many of them published now for the first time. One of its 
strong points is choice Southern dishes. It ought and doubtless will be 
warmly welcomed by the knights of the kitchen. — Syracuse Courier. 

We commend it to the attention of all house-keepers everywhere. — 
Lutheran Observer^ Philadelphia. 

There are rare and unique things in this book, whose author hns evi- 
dently lived in several lands, and availed herself of every opportunity to 
enlarge her knowledge and cultivate her taste. — Boston Beason. 

This compilation in breadth and scope deserves to rank among the fore- 
most of its kind, and is invaluable to those who seek scientific and prac- 
tical information upon that most important of all domestic topics — the 
cookery of the household. . . . Every house-keeper should have a copy of 
the work. — Albany Press. 

There is probably not a dish known to the civilized world, at least, that 
is not mentioned here. — Troy Press. 

A most useful collection of receipts. — Living Church, Chicago. 

This book contains any number of good recipes, and would be a great 
addition to any household. — 77ie Church, Philadelphia. 

It is a capital collection of recipes from private sources. — Detroit Post. 



Published by HARPER & BROTHERS, New York. 

t2?~ Haupick & BiiOTiiKus will send the above loork by mail, postage prepaid, to any 
part of the United States or Canada, on receipt of the price. 



^^.:'"- 






UNIVEKSTTY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY, 
BERKELEY 

THIS BOOK IS DUE ON THE LAST DATE 

STAMPED BELOW 

Books not returned on time are subject to a fine of 
50c per volume after the third day overdue, increasing 
to $1.00 per volume after the sixth day. Books not in 
demand may be renewed if application is made before 
expiration of loan period. 







JUNg 1966 

APR Z 197S 

MAY -11979 






APR 0^ 1996 






U.C. BERKELEY LIBRARIES 




CDHDD4DSM3 






UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRAI^Y 




